*  ft  ~ 


^ 


*-»  ri  w 


i,  «  »  j* 


w 


o  ySv/@^W  to  ^  n  I&'tyj.  o  *  ^5? 

>  oWJ&Nk*  ^v7  Vl  A%aSr^  <v  v*  o?' 

,V°  *  ilV^°“cvV  *  •  ‘l^iZ^V0  *  ‘  V^6°' 
^W.*°  /^ewv  °«^  \0*°  0\^ 


*  •!»;  v  °^m*  ov  w  °«sj 

A  *  ^JivvN^  v  wT  ^  *\  <^W«P  V  ^  V  OV  * X-HVvS?^  to  fcV  A  ^  X 

• -V" 

i*r  **a*  -“|m  °  V*  ^  -#§h  ^ 

§r  cf5^n  u_  *MiM  o  av^a  -  m:  Jr «  ^3 


c5?  ^r*  14  o  vV  A  o 

V  * ■  tigi  \'M  *  ^  ^  o 

^  -+$r :  Qt  ^*  *  *  *  *  l  r  t,  ^A  * 

"r  *  /  ❖  OnTfoy  +  A* 

H  JtrSoWiT^ftk  .  w  O  A>  ul"  i  J Mvys  ” .  « **,  - 


“x  <£ 

V#°  *  ,4'/  «"'*  Pt*-*'*  *  »  < 


k  AV  Vj.  * 

c^  c,oNC**  *0 
0°  ,*  c^iJhto  *,  °c 


►.  oWW,  4?  *  WI4W  *  aY  *Va  oV/IWj  4, 

C  .  *  A*  ^<V  ^  .  *v  v  .  *  i}'*  j7  .V 

*°  *  **  oNCx  ^  *  *  *  ^  ¥°  *  V<i  ^  < 

A  V,  .c’/W'/o  ^  *MZ^  +  \  ,  ° 

^  ^  An.  *  r^SJ® »  .O-/.  *  fiKai^s  ^  An.  *  ^ 


w»  :«f ;  v°^.  ^  :«g 

J  4fe' |  s  % 


cfb'Tn 

4?  * 

V  (Kv  . 


’j“S 

V°. 


^  r 


,oHc 


EPA  903/B-97-006 


■  I  ■  I  ■ 

Hazard 

|  Evaluation 
;  Handbook 


«S 


$ 

f> 


* 

4 

i 


A  Guide  to  Removal  Actions 


Fourth  Edition 

Prepared  by  the  Roy  F.  Weston 

Site  Assessment  Technical  Assistance  Team 

for  the 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
Region  III  Superfund  Removal  Branch 
Under  Contract  #68-S5-3002 


. 


K- 


'liii 

M. 


*.--r  ■■ 

-s  ■  ■.  ;;; 

.  ®  ,•  •  •  ■: 

■ .  t , 

.  :  ■■  ;* 

'  *  *  £*«  >S  <  ■■  l: 

•••••• 


k ‘  - 

'  *  &  '*>4 
*  »  ' 


4 

| i 

i 

• 

>  :»<:  <'V  « 

. 

0  : 

'&y 


fef.s 

.. .  .  . 

l-  ^ - 

,  .  n  .  ■  * 

fe  :  '«k  *  O&y  ■  :'  ■>< 


•  j 
0 

Vjrfc'V  '  T 


October  1997 


EPA  903/B-97-006 


Hazard 

Evaluation 

Handbook 


A  Guide  to  Removal  Actions 


Fourth  Edition 


Prepared  by  the  Roy  F.  Weston 

Site  Assessment  Technical  Assistance  Team 

for  the 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
Region  III  Superfund  Removal  Branch 
Under  Contract  #68-S5-3002 


m 


. 


mmmM 


aamtc-:*MK 

•  i 

wpi 


:-:'x i ' ;  / 

iiHil 

“4  ‘  i  *  „  ' 

|||  ■■ 


:  • 


- 

mm. 


’ v  cy 


Control  Number 


I3(p6SZ  ($ 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


Introduction . 1 

Safety . 5 

Sources  of  Information . 7 

Conducting  a  Removal  Assessment  . 11 

General  Hazard  Recognition . 19 

Fire/Explosion  Checklist . 22 

Drum  Site  Checklist . 24 

Lagoon  Checklist  . 27 

Landfill  Checklist . 29 

Chemical  Storage  Checklist  . 32 

Laboratory  Checklist  . 34 

Industrial  Facility  Checklist . 37 

What’s  Wrong  With  This  Picture? . 40 

Emergency  Removal  Guidelines  . 49 

Emergency  Removal  Guideline  Concentrations  . 52 

Removal  Numeric  Action  Levels  for  Drinking  Water  . 71 

Appendices 

1.  Toxicology . A93 

2.  Environmental  Media . A113 

3.  Sampling  and  Basic  Data  Interpretation . A 121 

4.  Container  Silhouettes . . A 135 

5.  Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  Placards  . A151 

6.  Integrating  Removal  and  Remedial  Site 

Assessment  Investigations  . A 167 


Index 


Introduction 


This  book  is  the  fourth  edition  of  a  guidebook  for  U.S.  EPA 
project  managers,  inspectors,  and  others  to  help  them  view  a  project 
site  from  a  multimedia  perspective  and  to  recognize  potential 
emergency  or  removal  conditions  that  may  not  be  obvious.  It  is 
essential  that  the  project  manager  or  inspector  question  everything  at  a 
project  site  in  terms  of  the  imminent  threat  posed  to  human  health  and 
the  environment. 

According  to  the  National  Oil  and  Hazardous  Substances 
Pollution  Contingency  Plan,  40  CFR  Part  300.420  (b)  and  (c),  among 
the  goals  of  a  remedial  preliminary  assessment  and  of  a  site 
investigation  are  to  determine  if  there  is  any  potential  need  for  removal 
action,  and,  if  the  assessment  or  investigation  indicates  that  a  removal 
action  is  warranted,  to  initiate  a  removal  site  evaluation  pursuant  to  40 
CFR  Part  300.410.  Removal  actions  are  warranted  in  unstable  or 
potentially  unstable  situations  that  pose  immediate  threats  to  public 
health  and  the  environment.  Examples  of  such  threats  are  weathered, 
leaking  drums;  potentially  explosive  substances;  damaged  buildings  or 
other  structures  with  a  high  potential  for  causing  hazardous  substances 
to  be  released  from  containment;  and  so  forth.  The  purpose  of  this 
book  is  to  help  Remedial  Project  Managers  understand  the  processes 
involved  in  a  removal  site  evaluation  and  recognize  the  potential 
sources  of  immediate  hazards  at  various  types  of  sites.  Such 
recognition  is  important  not  only  to  fulfill  the  mandates  of  the  NCP, 


2 


INTRODUCTION 


2 


but  also  to  maintain  maximum  site  safety  and  security  during  remedial 
actions. 

Many  sites,  such  as  those  being  evaluated  for  the  National  Priorities 
List  (NPL),  are  examined  first  by  the  Site  Assessment  Program,  not  by 
the  Removal  Program,  so  it  is  important  that  these  sites  be  examined 
in  light  of  their  potential  for  causing  imminent  threats.  Other  sites 
undergo  emergency  removal  actions  by  the  Removal  Branch  first  and 
then  are  transferred  to  other  programs  for  additional  action.  During  the 
subsequent  transition  period,  conditions  that  were  stable  at  the  end  of 
the  removal  response  may  have  deteriorated  so  that  an  imminent  threat 
is  posed  to  the  public  or  to  the  environment.  Remedial  sites  are  of 
concern  because  the  remedial  process  can  take  years,  during  which 
weathering  and  wearing  of  storage  and  containment  facilities  can  occur. 
The  NPL  Site  Certification  process  requires  the  periodic  evaluation  of 
remedial  sites.  These  evaluations  should  include  an  assessment  of  the 
need  for  a  removal  action. 

A  companion  to  this  guide  is  the  Disposal  Handbook :  A  Guide  to 
Evaluating  Hazardous  Waste  at  a  Superfund  Site  for  Disposal ,  which  is 
designed  for  use  once  a  removal  action  has  been  determined  to  be 
necessary.  The  Disposal  Handbook  takes  a  quantitative  approach  to 
evaluating  known  threats  at  a  hazardous  waste  site,  whereas  the  Hazard 
Evaluation  Handbook  takes  a  qualitative  approach  to  determining 
whether  a  threat  exists  and,  if  so,  the  nature  of  the  threat. 

This  book  is  meant  only  as  a  guide  to  the  possible  sources  of  harm 
presented  by  various  types  of  sites;  it  is  not  an  exhaustive  study. 
Instead,  the  purpose  of  the  book  is  to  encourage  project  managers  and 
others  to  examine  a  site  from  several  different  perspectives  in 
evaluating  potential  hazards. 


3 


INTRODUCTION 


3 


Acknowledgments 

This  book  was  prepared  by  the  Region  III  Site  Assessment 
Technical  Assistance  (SATA)  Team  under  the  coordination  of  the 
Superfund  Removal  Branch,  U.S.  EPA  Region  III.  Many  EPA 
personnel  and  SATA  members  made  direct  and  indirect  contributions 
to  this  project.  The  project  could  not  have  been  successfully  completed 
without  the  assistance  of  the  EPA  and  SATA  personnel  involved. 


‘  r 

■  •• 


Safety 


Certain  safety  precautions  should  be  considered  before  entering 
any  area  that  is  suspected  to  be  contaminated  with  hazardous 
substances.  EPA’s  Standard  Operating  Safety  Guides,  November  1984, 
as  well  as  the  specific  site  health  and  safety  plan  should  be  followed  to 
prevent  short-term  exposure  and  injury  and  the  long-term  effects  of 
multiple  short-term  exposures. 

•  Review  background  information  about  the  facility  prior  to 
making  a  site  visit.  A  background  search  may  provide  such 
useful  information  as  the  names  of  any  process  chemicals  used 
at  the  facility,  contact  names,  and  site-specific  hazards  and  may 
assist  field  personnel  conducting  the  assessment. 

•  Draft  a  site  health  and  safety  plan  to  address  all  chemical, 
physical,  biological,  and  radioactive  hazards  associated  with  the 
site.  Modifications  to  the  safety  plan  can  be  made  as  additional 
information  is  collected. 

•  Conduct  an  initial  survey  of  the  site  from  a  safe  distance  away 
to  determine  if  there  are  any  visible  hazards  that  should  be 
addressed  or  avoided  when  entering  the  site.  If  the 
contaminants  are  known,  it  is  possible  to  gather  information 
from  the  numerous  reference  sources  available,  prior  to  going 
on  the  site. 


6 


SAFETY 


6 


When  making  an  entry  into  a  site  where  the  materials  are 
unknown,  high  levels  of  protection  (Level  B  or  higher)  are 
recommended  until  sufficient  data  has  been  collected  to 
determine  that  lower  levels  of  protection  are  sufficient.  During 
the  assessment,  the  entry  team  will  use  direct  air  monitoring 
equipment  to  check  for  radiation,  combustible  gases,  and 
volatile  organic  and  inorganic  vapors.  Multimedia  (air,  water, 
and  soil)  samples  should  also  be  collected  to  determine  actual 
concentrations  of  the  contaminants  on  site. 

Based  on  the  initial  survey,  select  the  proper  type  of  personal 
protective  equipment  to  safely  perform  tasks  required  for 
further  site  assessment.  Personal  protection  may  include  a 
self-contained  breathing  apparatus  (SCBA)  or  air-purifying 
respirator  (APR),  chemical  protective  coveralls,  chemical- 
resistant  gloves  and  boots,  a  hard  hat,  and  safety  goggles. 
The  purpose  of  the  protective  equipment  is  to  minimize  the 
risk  of  exposure  to  hazardous  substances  through  inhalation, 
ingestion,  or  skin  contact. 

Personnel  working  on  site  must  have  completed  a  minimum 
level  of  OSHA-required  training  per  29  CFR  1910.120. 

Ensure  that  all  persons  entering  the  site  read  and  understand 
the  site  health  and  safety  plan  in  order  to  limit  the  number  of 
injuries.  As  new  threats  are  encountered  and  the  site  work 
plan  is  revised,  the  safety  plan  must  be  amended  to  reflect 
these  changes. 


Determine  if  a  confined  space  permit  is  required. 


Sources  of  Information 


Questions  about  the  hazards  posed  by  a  site  and  whether  a 
removal  response  is  appropriate  can  be  answered  by  the  EPA  Region 
III  Superfund  Removal  Branch.  Call  the  following  people  for 
information: 

Regional  Response  Center  -  (215)  566-3255 

An  On-Scene  Coordinator  from  the  Superfund  Removal  Branch  is  on 
duty  outside  of  normal  working  hours  and  can  be  reached  through  the 
Regional  Response  Center  to  answer  questions. 

Charles  Kleeman,  Section  Chief  -  (215)  566-3257 

Removal  Response  Section  (3HW31) 

Superfund  Removal  Branch 

Karen  Melvin,  Section  Chief  -  (215)  566-3275 
Removal  Enforcement  and  Oil  Section  (3HW32) 

Superfund  Removal  Branch 

David  Wright,  Section  Chief  -  (215)  566-3293 

Site  Assessment  and  CEPP  Section  (3HW33) 

Superfund  Removal  Branch 


8 


SOURCES  OF  INFORMATION 


8 


Questions  about  the  degree  of  toxicity  posed  by  a  substance 
and  its  possible  effects  should  be  referred  to  the  EPA  Region  III 
Superfund  Technical  Support  Section  (3HW41).  Call  the  following 
people  for  information: 

Bill  Belanger,  Regional  Radiation  Representative  (3AT32)  - 
(215)  566-2082 

Eric  Johnson,  Section  Chief  (3HW41)  -  (215)  566-3313 

Toxicological  information  may  also  be  obtained  from: 

Samuel  Rotenberg,  Toxicologist  -  (215)  566-3396 
RCRA  Integrated  Management  and  Support  Section  (3HW70) 

Additional  information  can  be  obtained  from: 

American  Association  of  Railroads  -  (202)  639-2100 

The  association  provides  assistance  at  sites  involving  rail  shipments  of 
hazardous  materials. 

Centers  for  Disease  Control  -  (404)  633-5313  (24  hours) 

The  CDC  provides  assistance  in  emergencies  involving  bacterial  agents 
or  infectious  diseases. 

Chemical  Emergency  Preparedness  Program  -  (800)  535-0202 

This  hotline  provides  information  on  reporting  of  hazardous  substances 
for  community  planning  purposes. 

CHEMTREC  -  (800)  424-9300  (24  hours) 

CHEMTREC  provides  information  concerning  materials  involved  in 
hazardous  materials  incidents.  CHEMTREC  can  also  contact 
manufacturers,  shippers,  or  other  parties  who  may  be  able  to  provide 
additional  assistance.  A  supplement  to  CHEMTREC  is  the  HIT 
(Hazard  Information  Transmission)  program,  which  provides  a  hard 
copy  of  hazard  data.  Non-emergency  service  can  be  obtained  from 
CHEMTREC  by  calling  (800)  262-8200,  between  8  a.m.  and  9  p.m. 


9 


SOURCES  OF  INFORMATION 


9 


EST.  CHEMTREC  is  operated  by  the  Chemical  Manufacturers 
Association. 

National  Animal  Poison  Control  Center  -  (217)  333-3611 
(24  hours) 

The  center  is  operated  by  the  University  of  Illinois  and  provides 
assistance  at  sites  involving  suspected  animal  poisonings  or  chemical 
contamination. 

National  Pesticide  Telecommunications  Network  - 
(800)  858-7378 

The  network  provides  information  about  spill  handling,  disposal  clean¬ 
up,  and  health  effects  of  pesticides. 

Nuclear  Regulatory  Commission,  King  of  Prussia,  PA  -  (610)  337- 
5000 

HQ  National  Operation  Center  (301)  816-5100 

These  numbers  provide  information  about  radiation  concerns. 

Safe  Drinking  Water  Hotline  -  (800)  426-4791 

This  hotline  provides  information  about  the  public  water  supply 
program,  policy,  and  technical  and  regulatory  items. 

Solid  Waste  and  Hazardous  Waste  (RCRA)  and  Superfund  - 
(800)  424-9346 

This  hotline  provides  information  about  the  Resource  Conservation  and 
Recovery  Act  and  Superfund.  It  is  operated  by  EPA. 

Texas  Tech  University  Pesticide  Hotline  -  (800)  858-7378 

The  hotline  provides  emergency  information  in  pesticide-related 

incidents. 

TSCA  and  Asbestos  Technical  Information  and  Referral  - 
(202)  554-1404 

This  hotline  provides  information  on  the  Toxic  Substances  Control  Act 
and  on  asbestos. 


10 


SOURCES  OF  INFORMATION 


10 


US  Department  of  Transportation  Hotline  -  (800)  467-4922 

The  hotline  provides  information  and  assistance  concerning  the 
hazardous  materials  regulations  found  in  the  Code  of  Federal 
Regulations  Title  49. 


Computer  Resources 

TOXNET 

TOXNET,  managed  by  the  National  Library  of  Medicine,  provides 
access  to  data  bases  on  toxicology  and  related  issues.  Five  integrated 
data  base  modules  are  accessible:  the  Hazardous  Substances  Data  Bank 
(HSDB),  Registry  of  Toxic  Effects  of  Chemical  Substances  (RTECS), 
Chemical  Carcinogenesis  Research  Information  System  (CCRIS), 
Directory  of  Biotechnology  Information  Resources  (DBIR),  and 
Environmental  Teratology  Information  Center  Backfile  (ETICBACK). 
Call  (301)  496-6531  for  account  information. 

CHEMICAL  INFORMATION  SYSTEMS  INC 
CIS  provides  access  to  about  nine  different  data  bases.  Among  the  data 
bases  are  the  Oil  and  Hazardous  Material/Technical  Assistance  Data 
System  (OHMTADS),  the  Chemical  Hazard  Response  Information 
System  (CHRIS),  and  the  MERCK  index.  CIS  also  provides  access  to 
the  SPHERE  family  of  components  sponsored  by  the  U.S.  EPA  Office 
of  Toxic  Substances,  including  DERMAL,  ENVIROFATE,  and 
ISHOW.  Call  (800)  CIS-USER  for  account  information. 

CAMEO  -  RIDS 

The  Computer-Aided  Management  of  Emergency  Operations  (CAMEO) 
program  provides  response  information  and  recommendations  for  over 
4000  commonly  transported  chemicals,  an  air  dispersion  model,  and 
components  for  emergency  response  planning.  Call  (800)  99CAMEO 
for  account  information. 

Internet  Resources 

For  information  on  numerous  topics  including  pollution  control  and 
remediation  technologies  relating  to  air,  water,  and  hazardous  waste 
start  at  EPA’s  web  site  at  the  following  address:  http://www.epa.gov/ 


Conducting  a  Removal 
Assessment 


Certain  safety  precautions  should  be  considered  before  entering 
an  area  of  any  description  that  is  suspected  to  be  contaminated  with 
hazardous  substances.  The  National  Contingency  Plan,  40  CFR  Section 
300.410,  gives  the  minimal  procedures  for  conducting  a  removal  site 
evaluation,  which  "includes  a  removal  preliminary  assessment  and,  if 
warranted,  a  removal  site  inspection."  According  to  the  NCP: 

300.410(c)(1)  The  lead  agency  shall,  as  appropriate,  base  the 
removal  preliminary  assessment  on  readily  available  information. 
A  removal  preliminary  assessment  may  include,  but  is  not  limited 
to: 

(i)  Identification  of  the  source  and  nature  of  the  release  or 
threat  of  release; 

This  may  be  as  easy  as  reading  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Transportation  (DOT)  placard  on  a  tank  truck.  In  the  case  of  a 
hazardous  waste  site  with  hundreds  of  possibly  unlabeled  drums 
of  different  chemicals,  recognition  of  the  source  and  nature  of 
the  threat  posed  requires  use  of  all  information  available;  e.g., 
historical  data,  visual  observation,  monitoring  data,  sample  data, 
package  labels,  shipping  manifests,  and  witnesses. 


12 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


12 


(ii)  Evaluation  by  ATSDR  or  by  other  sources,  such  as  state 
public  health  agencies,  of  the  threat  to  public  health; 

In  order  to  evaluate  the  level  of  threat  that  a  site  poses  to 
public  health,  ATSDR  (Agency  for  Toxic  Substances  and 
Disease  Registry)  requires  a  report  that  describes  the  site  and  its 
history;  lists  the  substances  present  on  site  and  the  quantity  of 
contaminated  material  in  different  media  (soil,  water,  air); 
describes  the  relationship  between  the  site  and  such 
environmental  pathways  as  groundwater,  surface  water,  soil, 
sediment,  and  air;  and  provides  documentation  of  quality 
control /quality  assurance  for  supporting  sample  data.  Similar 
reports  can  be  prepared  for  EPA  toxicologists  and  other  public 
health  officials  so  they  can  evaluate  the  degree  of  threat  posed 
by  a  site. 

(iii)  Evaluation  of  the  magnitude  of  the  threat; 

Evaluation  is  determining  the  actual  or  potential  impact  of 
a  threat  to  public  health  and  welfare  and  to  the  environment.  To 
evaluate  the  magnitude  of  a  hazardous  materials  site,  all 
substances  must  be  identified,  their  concentrations  determined, 
and  their  dispersion  pathways  established.  Then,  risk  can  be 
assessed  on  the  basis  of  exposure  or  the  threat  of  exposure  to 
the  public  and  the  environment. 

(iv)  Evaluation  of  factors  necessary  to  make  the  determination  of 
whether  a  removal  is  necessary;  and 

The  eight  criteria  for  a  removal  are  set  forth  in  Section 
300.415  of  the  NCP.  These  criteria  are  qualitative  in  nature, 
and  it  is  not  necessary  that  all  of  them  be  satisfied  for  a  removal 
to  be  initiated.  The  criteria  are  discussed  below. 

(v)  Determination  of  whether  a  nonfederal  party  is  undertaking 
proper  response. 

Research  whether  state  and/or  local  agencies  or  the 
potentially  responsible  party  (PRP)  have  taken  action  to  mitigate 
conditions  at  the  site. 


13 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


13 


300.410(c)(2)  A  removal  preliminary  assessment  of  releases  from 
hazardous  waste  management  facilities  may  include  collection  or 
review  of  data  such  as  site  management  practices,  information  from 
generators,  photographs,  literature  searches,  and  personal 
interviews  conducted,  as  appropriate. 

300.410(d)  A  removal  site  inspection  may  be  performed  if  more 
information  is  needed.  Such  inspection  may  include  a  perimeter 
(i.e.,  off-site)  or  on-site  inspection,  taking  into  consideration 
whether  such  inspection  can  be  performed  safely. 

Initial  entry  personnel  should  determine  the  presence  of  any 
hazards  that  may  affect  response  personnel,  the  public,  and  the 
environment;  verify  existing  information  and  obtain  additional 
information  about  the  site;  evaluate  the  need  for  prompt  action  to 
mitigate  any  situation  on-site;  and  collect  information  to  establish  safety 
requirements  for  additional  personnel  entering  the  site. 


NCP  Criteria  For  Initiating  A  Removal  Action 

Section  300.415  of  the  NCP  sets  forth  the  criteria  for  determining 
whether  a  removal  action  is  warranted.  If  the  site  meets  one  or  more 
of  the  criteria,  a  removal  action  may  be  necessary. 

300.415(b)(2)  The  following  factors  shall  be  considered  in 
determining  the  appropriateness  of  a  removal  action  pursuant  to 
this  section: 

(i)  Actual  or  potential  exposure  to  nearby  human  populations, 
animals,  or  the  food  chain  from  hazardous  substances  or 
pollutants  or  contaminants; 

Determine  whether  the  site  poses  a  direct  exposure  threat. 
Look  for  evidence  of  children  playing  in  or  near  the  site.  Look 
for  evidence  of  people  walking  or  riding  through  the  area, 
possibly  stirring  up  contaminated  dust.  Check  for  schools, 
retirement  communities,  hospitals  or  other  institutions  nearby 
with  sensitive  populations  that  may  be  affected  by  site  emissions. 


14 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


14 


emissions.  Explore  whether  contaminated  runoff  from  the  site 
enters  nearby  streams  or  impoundments.  Look  for  wells  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  site  that  are  affected  by  groundwater 
contaminants.  Determine  whether  the  contaminants  are  likely  to 
enter  the  food  chain  through  biouptake. 

(ii)  Actual  or  potential  contamination  of  drinking  water  supplies 
or  sensitive  ecosystems; 

Determine  whether  the  release  affects,  or  has  the  potential 
to  affect,  a  groundwater  aquifer  or  surface  waterway  used  for 
drinking  water.  Check  for  any  fragile  natural  areas  (e.g.,  the 
habitat  of  an  endangered  species;  wetlands)  that  may  be  affected 
by  contaminants  from  the  site. 

(iii)  Hazardous  substances  or  pollutants  or  contaminants  in 
drums,  barrels,  tanks,  or  other  bulk  storage  containers,  that 
may  pose  a  threat  of  release; 

Determine  how  structurally  secure  containers  are.  Look 
for  any  signs  of  weathering  or  structural  instability.  Based  on 
the  condition  of  any  containers  and  the  quantity  of  material 
present,  determine  whether  an  uncontrolled  release  is  an 
imminent  threat. 

(iv)  High  levels  of  hazardous  substances  or  pollutants  or 
contaminants  in  soils  largely  at  or  near  the  surface,  that  may 
migrate; 

Look  for  visible  discoloration  of  the  soil  and  for 
standing  pools  of  discolored  liquid.  Look  for  any  dead  or  dying 
vegetation;  it  may  imply  the  presence  of  soil  contamination  that 
is  not  visible.  Determine  the  direction  of  runoff. 

(v)  Weather  conditions  that  may  cause  hazardous  substances  or 
pollutants  or  contaminants  to  migrate  or  be  released; 

Determine  whether  precipitation  can  initiate  a  release  (e.g. , 
a  lagoon  overflow)  or  cause  contaminants  already  released  to 
migrate.  Check  for  any  containers  that  are  exposed  to  the 
weather,  which  facilitates  structural  deterioration. 


15 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


15 


(vi)  Threat  of  fire  or  explosion; 

Check  for  any  flammable/explosive  substances  that  may  be 
present,  including  any  initially  stable  substances  that  may  have 
deteriorated  to  the  point  of  being  explosively  unstable.  Check 
for  the  presence  of  strong  oxidizers.  Determine  whether  any 
incompatible  substances  are  stored  together.  Examine  the 
history  of  the  site  for  incidences  of  accidental  fire,  explosion,  or 
arson. 

(vii)  The  availability  of  other  appropriate  federal  or  state  response 
mechanisms  to  respond  to  the  release; 

Ascertain  whether  other  federal  or  state  agencies  can 
provide  resources  to  mitigate  the  release  or  threat  of  release. 

(viii)  Other  situations  or  factors  that  may  pose  threats  to  public 
health  or  welfare  or  the  environment. 

Be  alert  for  any  other  condition,  in  addition  to  the  ones 
specifically  given  in  the  NCP  criteria,  that  may  pose  an 
imminent  threat. 

Conducting  a  Removal  Preliminary  Assessment  and  Site 
Inspection 

PRELIMINARY  ASSESSMENT 

Before  site  entry,  the  investigation  team  should  gather  and  review 
information  about  site  activities  and  the  chemicals  used  and/or 
generated  so  that  hazards  can  be  evaluated  to  the  extent  possible  and 
preliminary  controls  established  to  protect  initial  entry  personnel.  This 
preliminary  evaluation  should  provide  the  following  information: 

•  The  location  and  approximate  size  of  the  site. 

•  The  site  history,  especially  waste  disposal  history. 

•  A  description  of  the  topography  of  the  site,  the  number  and  types 
of  structures  present,  and  routes  of  accessibilty.  Natural  wind 
barriers  such  as  buildings,  hills,  and  storage  tanks  should  also  be 
identified,  as  well  as  how  land  surrounding  the  site  is  used. 


16 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


16 


•  Descriptions  of  the  hazardous  substances  known  or  suspected  to  be 
on  site,  their  chemical  and  physical  properties  and  associated  risks. 
•  An  estimation  of  the  types  of  changes  that  may  have 

occurred  on  site  as  the  result  of  aging,  weathering, 
fire/explosion,  and  so  forth.  Changes  include  structural 
damage  to  buildings  and  containers,  as  well  as  chemical 
alteration  of  hazardous  substances  present.  Any  such 
changes  may  increase  the  risk  to  personnel  entering  the 
site. 

•  Pathways  for  dispersion  of  hazardous  substances  from  the  site. 
Potential  pathways  include  the  air,  such  biologic  routes  as  the  food 
chain,  groundwater,  surface  water,  and  direct  contact.  Adjacent 
properties  and  the  sensitivity  of  the  surrounding  environment 
should  be  considered. 

•  A  description  of  the  response  activities  or  other  tasks  to  be 
performed  on  site  and  an  estimate  of  their  duration. 

Information  can  be  obtained  through  a  search  of  state  and  federal 
regulatory  and  enforcement  records  (including  previously  gathered  U.S. 
EPA  removal  and  remedial  data  and  information  from  other  EPA 
programs  such  as  the  National  Pollutant  Discharge  Elimination 
(NPDES)  System  for  water),  local  government  records,  the  potentially 
responsible  party’s  records  (logbooks,  shipping  manifests,  ledgers, 
etc.),  interviews  with  adjacent  property  owners  and  previous  site 
workers,  and  perimeter  reconnaissance.  If  the  preliminary  off-site 
evaluation  does  not  produce  sufficient  information  to  identify  and 
quantify  the  suspected  hazards,  an  initial  site  entry  and  characterization 
are  performed. 

SITE  INVESTIGATION 

During  the  site  investigation,  entry  personnel  should  monitor  the 
air  for  conditions  that  are  immediately  dangerous  to  life  and  health 
(IDLH)  or  that  may  cause  serious  harm.  Such  conditions  include 
combustible  or  explosive  atmospheres,  oxygen  deficiency,  and  the 
presence  of  airborne  toxic  substances  that  pose  a  high  threat  through 
skin  absorption  and/or  inhalation.  To  supplement  air  monitoring, 
personnel  should  look  on  site  for  indicators  of  IDLH  conditions. 
Indicators  include  dead  animals,  stressed  vegetation,  and  bulging, 


17 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


17 


presence  of  something  on  site  that  may  imply  the  presence  of  a  hidden 
hazard;  for  example,  the  edge  of  one  rusty  drum  protruding  through  a 
tangle  of  vines  could  indicate  that  the  vines  are  covering  a  pile  of 
drums.  Personnel  should  also  monitor  for  ionizing  radiation  and  note 
any  slip,  trip,  and/or  fall  hazards.  Once  the  hazards  on  site  have  been 
evaluated  and  the  initial  safety  plan  revised  accordingly,  periodic 
monitoring  should  occur  to  ensure  the  safety  of  site  workers  during  the 
remainder  of  the  investigation. 

It  is  critical  that  the  hazardous  materials  on  site  be  identified 
exactly  to  assure  safe  and  effective  field  operations.  Several  basic  clues 
to  identification  of  hazardous  materials  include: 

•  Container  shape  and  size.  Distinctive  container  shapes  are  used  for 
certain  types  of  substances,  so  basic  clues  to  the  identity  of  a 
hazardous  material  can  be  gathered  from  the  container  in  which  it  is 
stored.  Refer  to  Appendix  4  for  silhouettes  of  some  containers  used 
in  the  transportation,  storage,  and  use  of  hazardous  materials. 

•  Markings,  placards,  and  labels.  Identifying  markings,  placards,  and 
labels,  along  with  container  shape  and  size,  are  the  safest  and  easiest 
methods  for  determining  the  presence  of  hazardous  materials.  The 
DOT  requires  placards  on  containers  used  to  transport  1000  pounds 
or  more  of  most  hazardous  substances  across  state  lines;  the  DOT 
requires  placards  for  any  amount  of  some  particularly  hazardous 
substances.  The  DOT  Code  of  Federal  Regulation,  49  CFR,  gives 
the  requirements  for  labeling  and  placarding  hazardous  materials 
within  the  United  States.  There  is  also  a  marking  system 
administered  by  the  National  Fire  Protection  Association  (NFPA)  for 
fixed  facility  storage  tanks.  Refer  to  Appendix  5  for  additional 
information  on  U.S.  DOT  and  NFPA  placards  and  labels. 

NOTE:  Remember  that  containers  may  be  unlabeled  or  even 

mislabeled,  either  intentionally  or  through  error.  Exercise 
extreme  caution  until  the  presence  or  absence  of  a 
hazardous  substance  has  been  confirmed. 


18 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


18 


•  Senses.  The  senses  of  sight,  hearing,  and  smell  can  aid  in  the 
identification  of  hazardous  materials.  Sight  and  hearing  are  the 
safest  senses  to  employ  and  are  very  valuable  resources  in 
determining  the  presence  of  hazardous  materials.  The  sense  of 
smell  is  potentially  dangerous.  Some  materials  are  toxic  at 
concentrations  too  low  to  be  detected  by  smell,  and  other  materials 
induce  olefactory  fatigue,  so  workers  cannot  distinguish  increased 
concentrations.  Generally,  standard  operating  procedures  state  that 
if  a  worker  is  close  enough  to  smell  a  substance,  the  worker  is  too 
close. 

Qualitative  Hazard  Recognition 

Qualitative  hazard  recognition,  the  realization  that  a  hazard  actually 
exists  on  site,  is  the  most  crucial  part  of  a  removal  site  investigation. 
This  section  contains  a  general  checklist  of  questions,  pertinent  to  every 
site,  to  provide  guidance  in  qualitative  hazard  recognition.  Following 
the  general  checklist  is  a  series  of  drawings  of  specific  conditions  that 
may  not  occur  at  every  site.  When  they  do  occur,  these  conditions 
require  a  thorough  evaluation,  so  a  detailed  checklist  follows  each 
drawing.  This  section  concludes  with  a  modified  map  of  an  actual  site. 
A  checklist  follows  the  site  map. 

Use  of  the  general  checklist  should  give  each  project  manager  or 
inspector  an  idea  of  whether  a  removal  may  be  warranted  and  provide 
background  information  about  the  site.  The  checklists  associated  with 
the  drawings  should  be  used  in  making  a  more  detailed  assessment  of 
specific  hazards. 

The  purpose  of  each  checklist  is  to  direct  the  thinking  of  site 
investigators;  the  checklists  are  guides,  not  all  encompassing  field 
lists  that  address  every  condition  that  may  be  encountered. 


19 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


19 


General  Hazard  Recognition  Checklist  for  Each  Site 

-  Key  Points  and  Potential  Hazards  - 

1.  Note  any  indicators  of  potential  exposure  to  hazardous 
substances: 

•  Dead  fish,  animals  or  vegetation. 

•  Dust  or  spray  in  the  air. 

•  Fissures  or  cracks  in  solid  surfaces  that  expose  deep  waste 
layers. 

•  Pools  of  liquid. 

•  Foams  or  oils  on  liquid  surfaces. 

•  Gas  generation  or  effervescence. 

•  Deteriorating  containers. 

•  Cleared  land  areas  or  possible  landfilled  areas.  See  detailed 
checklist  on  page  29. 

•  Anything  that  appears  unusual,  out  of  the  ordinary,  for  whatever 
reason. 

2.  Note  the  types  of  containers,  impoundments,  or  other  storage 

systems: 

•  Paper  or  wooden  packages. 

•  Metal  (stainless  steel,  lead,  etc.)  or  plastic  barrels  or  drums, 
concrete  storage  containers.  The  composition  of  the  container 
can  be  a  clue  to  the  contents. 

•  Underground  tanks. 

•  Aboveground  tanks. 

•  Compressed  gas  cylinders. 

•  Pits,  ponds,  or  lagoons. 

•  Other. 

•  See  detailed  checklist  on  page  24,  27,  32,  and  34. 

3.  Note  the  condition  of  waste  containers  and  storage  systems: 

•  Structural  soundness. 

•  Visibly  rusted  or  corroded. 

•  Leaking  or  bulging. 

•  Types  and  quantities  of  materials  in  container(s). 


20 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


20 


•  Types  and  quantities  of  materials  in  container(s). 

•  Container  labels  indicating  corrosive,  explosive,  flammable, 
radioactive,  toxic,  or  biologically  pathogenic  material. 

•  Presence  or  absence  of  secondary  containment,  such  as  a  berm. 

4.  Note  the  physical  condition  of  materials  on  site: 

•  Physical  state:  gas,  liquid,  or  solid. 

•  Color  and  turbidity. 

•  Behavior,  e.g.,  corroding,  foaming,  or  vaporizing. 

•  Conditions  conducive  to  splash  or  contact. 

5.  Identify  features  of  the  land  and  natural  wind  barriers: 

•  Buildings,  large  aboveground  storage  tanks. 

•  Hills. 

•  Rows  of  trees. 

6.  Determine  the  potential  pathways  of  dispersion: 

•  Air. 

•  Surface  water. 

•  Groundwater. 

•  Land  surface  (direct  contact). 

•  Biologic  routes  such  as  plants  and  animals  affecting  the  food 
chain. 

7.  Note  any  safety  hazards.  Consider: 

•  Condition  of  site  structures. 

•  Obstacles  to  entry  and  exit. 

•  Homogeneity  of  the  terrain. 

•  Stability  of  the  terrain. 

•  Stability  of  stacked  material. 

8.  Identify  any  reactive,  incompatible,  flammable,  or  highly 
corrosive  wastes.  How  are  they  stored? 


21 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


21 


9.  Note  the  presence  of  any  naturally  occurring  potential  skin 
irritants  or  dermatitis-inducing  agents  or  of  any  potentially 
hazardous  animals.  For  example: 

•  Poison  ivy,  poison  oak,  and/or  poison  sumac. 

•  Poisonous  snakes. 

•  Stray  dogs. 

10.  Note  any  tags,  labels,  markings,  or  other  identifying  indicators. 

11.  If  warranted,  use  one  or  more  of  the  following  investigative 
techniques  to  locate  buried  wastes  or  contaminant  plumes: 

•  Electromagnetic  resistivity. 

•  Seismic  refraction. 

•  Magnetometry. 

•  Metal  detection. 

•  Ground-penetrating  radar. 

12.  Collect  samples  from: 

•  Air. 

•  Drainage  ditches. 

•  Soil  (surface  and  subsurface). 

•  Standing  pools  of  liquids. 

•  Storage  containers. 

•  Streams  and  ponds  (upgradient,  at  suspected  source,  and 
downgradient). 

•  Groundwater  (upgradient,  beneath  site,  downgradient). 

13.  Sample  for  or  otherwise  identify: 

•  Biologic  or  pathologic  hazards. 

•  Radiologic  hazards. 


22 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


22 


-  Key  Points  and  Potential  Hazards  - 


1.  Damaged  Structure 

•  Unstable  structures  may  pose  physical  hazards. 

•  Debris  increases  the  risk  of  slip,  trip,  fall  hazards. 

•  Fire  often  causes  friable  asbestos  to  become  airborne. 

•  Smoke  from  even  simple  structure  fires  may  contain  many  toxic 
chemicals. 

2.  Contaminated  Runoff 

•  Runoff  of  water  used  to  treat  a  fire  will  often  be  contaminated 
with  chemicals  released  during  the  incident. 

•  The  water  may  cause  adverse  reactions  with  reactive  or  unstable 
chemicals. 

•  The  water  may  also  be  contaminated  with  combustion 
byproducts  of  chemicals  stored  or  used  at  the  facility. 


23 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


23 


3.  Drum  Storage 

•  Determine  whether  the  drums  have  been  impacted  by  either  the 
fire,  water,  or  chemical  foam. 

•  Do  the  drums  seem  stable  or  stressed  by  heat  or  pressure? 

•  Can  any  special  hazards  be  noted  from  visible  label  information? 

•  Note  any  physical  damage  caused  by  heavy  equipment. 

•  Research  the  toxicity  and  physical  properties  of  chemicals 
expected  to  be  present. 

4.  Bulk  Storage 

•  Determine  whether  the  containers  have  been  affected  by  either 
the  fire,  water,  or  chemical  foam. 

•  Do  the  containers  seem  stable  or  stressed  by  heat  or  pressure? 

•  Are  the  pressure  relief  systems  intact  and  actively  venting? 

•  Are  primary  and  secondary  containment  structures  available  and 
stable? 

•  Research  the  toxic  and  physical  properties  of  chemicals  expected 
to  be  present. 

5.  Drains 

•  Look  for  storm,  sanitary  sewer,  and  process  water  drains  in  the 
area. 

•  Are  drain  outfalls  directed  to  a  stream,  river,  or  other  sensitive 
area? 

•  Are  drains  connected  to  sump  pits  or  other  potential  containment 
areas? 

•  Can  drains  be  utilized  for  containment  or  blocked  for  protection 
if  necessary? 


24 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


24 


Hazard  Recognition-  Drum  Site 


Drum  Site  Checklist 

-  Key  Points  and  Potential  Hazards  - 

1 .  Unknown  Drums 

•  Do  not  make  assumptions  regarding  the  safety  of  drum  contents 
until  positive  identification  can  be  made;  labels  may  not  reflect 
the  actual  drum  contents. 

•  Shaking  drums  to  determine  whether  empty  or  not  can  initiate 
adverse  reaction. 

•  Seemingly  empty  drums  can  still  contain  toxic  residues. 

•  Determine  materials  drums  are  made  of,  e.g.,  fiber,  stainless 
steel,  aluminum,  poly,  lead.  These  materials  may  give  clues  to 
the  nature  of  the  contents  and  the  associated  hazards. 

•  Drums  containing  incompatible  substances  may  be  found 
together.  If  the  drums  are  leaking,  they  may  pose  a 
fire/explosion  threat. 


25 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


25 


2.  Vapor  Release 

•  Not  all  vapors  are  visible.  Look  near  bung  holes  for  air 
movement  similar  to  heat  waves. 

•  Respiratory  protection  is  critical  to  cover  inhalation  and 
ingestion  exposure  routes. 

•  Determine  if  vapors  can  be  confined  and  concentrated  due  to  the 
nature  of  the  surrounding  area  or  structures. 

3.  Bulging  Drum 

•  Determine  if  bulging  is  caused  by  pressure  buildup  or  thermal 
expansion/contraction . 

•  Bulging  drums  should  never  be  opened  by  hand.  A  remote 
drum  punch  can  open  the  drum  and  relieve  the  pressure. 

4.  Leaking  Drum 

•  Contain  leakage  in  place  or  block  off  any  drains. 

•  Use  pH  paper  to  determine  if  the  leaking  material  is  corrosive. 

•  Any  visibly  stressed  vegetation  may  indicate  toxicity. 

•  If  a  smoking,  fuming,  or  bubbling  reaction  is  evident,  it  may 
indicate  reactivity. 

5.  Drum  Tiers 

•  Uneven  stacking  or  corroded  pallets/drums  can  present  a 
physical  hazard. 

•  Leaking  drums  on  an  upper  tier  can  present  a  chemical  hazard 
above  the  worker’s  head. 

•  Wooden  pallets  do  not  constitute  a  chemical  barrier  to  prevent 
leaks  from  mixing  and  can  pose  a  fire  hazard  in  the  presence  of 
oxidizers. 

6.  Tipped  Drum 

•  If  a  tipped  drum  is  leaking  from  the  bung,  setting  the  drum 
upright  or  rolling  it  so  the  bung  is  upright  can  eliminate  the 
problem. 

•  A  leak  underneath  the  drum  may  not  be  visible;  look  for  clues 
such  as  discolored  soil  and  stressed  vegetation. 


26 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


26 


7.  Buried  Drums 

•  An  uneven  or  disturbed  soil  surface  may  indicate  buried  objects. 

•  Drum  heads  often  rise  and  break  through  the  soil  surface  after 
burial. 

•  Caution  should  be  exercised  when  using  heavy  equipment  in 
areas  that  have  or  are  suspected  to  have  buried  drums. 

•  An  excavated  drum  may  not  be  structurally  sound  due  to 
container  deterioration. 

•  Data  obtained  from  soil  gas  testing,  magnetometer  surveys,  and 
x-ray  fluorescence  may  indicate  the  presence  of  buried  drums. 

8.  Packed  Drums 

•  Do  not  assume  that  inner  drums  in  a  tightly  packed  area  of 
drums  contain  the  same  chemical  as  the  accessible  drums,  or 
that  the  contents  are  compatible. 

•  Large  amounts  of  chemicals  can  pool  beneath  and  between  the 
packed  drums. 

•  It  can  be  extremely  difficult  to  identify  and  handle,  or  even  to 
reach,  a  leaking  or  fuming  drum  within  the  pack. 


27 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


27 


Hazard  Recognition-  Lagoon 


7 


Lagoon  Checklist 

-  Key  Points  and  Potential  Hazards  - 


1 .  Lagoon 

•  Document  whether  the  lagoon  is  permitted  or  unpermitted. 

•  Determine  the  toxic  and  physical  properties  of  the  chemicals 
present  in  the  lagoon. 

•  Note  any  stained  soil  or  dead/dying  vegetation  in  the  area  of  the 
lagoon. 

•  Monitor  for  any  air  emissions  in  the  vicinity  of  the  lagoon. 

•  Characterize  all  layers  of  the  lagoon  -  both  liquid  and  solid 
layers. 

•  Check  records  for  previous  monitoring  analysis  of  the  lagoon 
contents. 

•  Research  the  hydrogeology  of  the  area  and  the  location  of  the 
water  table  with  respect  to  the  lagoon. 


28 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


28 


2.  Containment  Structure 

•  Note  the  stability  of  the  berm  construction. 

•  Document  whether  secondary  containment  is  available  in  the 
event  of  failure. 

•  Document  any  seepage  through  the  berm. 

•  Check  whether  the  containment  structure  is  adequately 
engineered  to  withstand  normal  stresses  and  strains. 

3.  Liner 

•  Check  for  a  lagoon  liner. 

•  Determine  whether  the  construction  materials  of  the  liner  are 
compatible  with  the  contents  of  the  lagoon. 

•  If  possible,  determine  whether  the  liner  was  installed  by 
professionals. 

4.  Leachate 

•  Determine  what  types  of  chemicals  can  be  expected  to  leach 
from  the  lagoon.  Determine  whether  direct  contact  is  a  threat 
with  any  surface  leachate  seeps. 

•  Determine  whether  surface  seeps  affect  any  surface  waters,  and 
whether  a  leachate  pathway  to  a  local  aquifer  is  available. 

5.  Drainage 

•  Identify  all  sources  of  drainage  into  the  lagoon. 

•  Identify  all  sources  of  drainage  out  of  the  lagoon. 

•  Determine  whether  the  lagoon  liquid  level  rises  or  falls  at 
unexpected  times. 

•  Determine  whether  sufficient  freeboard  is  available  to  prevent 
overflow  of  the  lagoon  under  heavy  precipitation. 

6.  Access  Control 

•  Access  should  be  restricted  by  a  fence  or  other  barrier. 

•  Look  for  any  evidence  of  trespassers  around  the  lagoon. 

•  Look  for  evidence  of  children  playing  in  the  vicinity  of  the 
lagoon. 


29 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


29 


Hazard  Recognition-  Landfill 


Landfill  Checklist 

-  Key  Points  and  Potential  Hazards  - 

1.  Landfill 

•  Document  whether  the  landfill  is  permitted  or  unpermitted. 

•  If  permitted,  document  materials  that  are  allowed. 

•  Document  the  history  of  disposal  practices. 

•  Determine  whether  the  landfill  is  lined  or  unlined. 

•  Look  for  evidence  of  illegal  dumping  or  of  dumping  that  is 
inconsistent  with  accepted  practices. 

•  Research  the  hydrogeology  of  the  area  and  the  location  of  the 
water  table  with  respect  to  the  landfill. 

•  Research  the  toxic  and  physical  properties  of  the  chemicals 
present. 


30 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


30 


2.  Staging  Area 

•  Check  for  the  presence  of  hazardous  materials  that  are  staged 
for  disposal. 

•  Look  for  such  surface  contamination  as  stained  soil  or 
dead/dying  vegetation  in  the  staging  area. 

•  Document  whether  access  to  the  staging  area  is  restricted  by 
fencing  or  other  barriers. 

3.  Leachate 

•  Determine  the  types  of  chemicals  that  can  be  expected  to  leach 
out  of  the  landfill. 

•  Identify  any  pathways  for  leachate  to  local  aquifers. 

•  Determine  whether  any  surface  leachate  seeps  pose  a  direct 
contact  threat. 

•  Look  for  surface  seeps  that  may  affect  surface  waters. 

4.  Wells 

•  Document  any  monitoring  wells  in  the  area. 

•  Note  any  drinking  water  wells  in  the  area. 

•  Research  any  sample  information  (both  past  and  present)  that 
may  be  available  for  nearby  wells. 

•  Determine  whether  the  state  has  more  stringent  or  less  stringent 
water  quality  criteria  than  does  EPA. 

5.  Community  Access 

•  Look  for  evidence  of  trespassers  onto  the  landfill. 

•  Look  for  children’s  play  areas  in  the  migration  pathways  of 
leachate. 

•  Find  out  if  the  community  is  aware  of  any  actual  or  potential 
hazards  posed  by  the  landfill. 

•  Determine  whether  access  to  the  landfill  can  be  sufficiently 
restricted  using  signs  or  barriers. 


31 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


31 


6.  Air  Emissions 

•  Determine  whether  air  emissions  are  controlled  at  the  landfill. 

•  Check  for  emissions  that  can  be  detected  with  monitoring 
instruments. 

•  Determine  whether  prevailing  winds  carry  contaminants  into 
sensitive  populations  or  environments. 


32 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


32 


Chemical  Storage  Checklist 

-  Key  Points  and  Potential  Hazards  - 

1.  Transfer  Points 

•  Determine  whether  bulk  chemical  transfer  was  performed  on  a 
concrete  pad  or  over  soil/gravel. 

•  Look  for  any  stained  soil  and  stressed  vegetation. 

•  Was  vehicle  decontamination  performed?  How  were 
decontamination  agents  disposed  of? 

•  Note  the  condition  of  pipes/hoses,  fittings,  valves,  and  joints. 

2.  Containers 

•  Determine  whether  containers  are  filled  or  empty. 

•  Is  the  container  structure  compatible  with  the  stored  chemical, 
if  the  contents  are  known? 

•  If  the  contents  are  unknown,  do  the  composition  and  structure 
of  each  container  give  clues  to  the  contents  and  their  associated 
hazards? 


33 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


33 


•  Look  for  such  indicators  of  structural  instability  as  weak  welds, 
bulging  panels,  missing  rivets,  and  so  forth. 

•  Are  access  portals  intact;  can  any  leakage  be  observed? 

•  Can  the  containers  be  expected  to  remain  intact  until  remedition 
is  complete? 

3.  Chemical  Types 

•  Research  the  toxic  and  physical  properties  of  the  stored 
chemicals. 

•  Do  signs  or  markings  on  the  containers  provide  clues  to 
potential  dangers? 

•  Are  incompatible  chemicals  stored  adjacent  to  one  another? 

•  Do  the  stored  chemicals  have  the  potential  to  degrade  into  a 
more  hazardous  form? 

4.  Secondary  Containment 

•  Calculate  whether  the  containment  volume  is  sufficient  to  hold 
the  contents  of  the  largest  primary  container  plus  freeboard. 

•  Determine  whether  the  containment  structure  is  compatible  with 
the  chemicals  present. 

•  Is  the  containment  structure  totally  enclosing,  with  four  walls 
and  a  floor? 

•  Look  for  any  breaches,  whether  intentional  or  otherwise,  present 
in  the  secondary  containment  structure. 

•  Look  for  any  drains  present  in  the  structure. 

5.  Spill  History 

•  Determine  whether  spills  were  frequent  during  past  operations. 

•  Do  past  spills  have  the  continuing  potential  to  migrate  off  site? 

•  Have  spills  compromised  the  structures  of  either  the  primary 
containers  or  the  secondary  containment  structure? 

6.  Drainage 

•  Determine  whether  the  secondary  containment  structure  is 
designed  to  allow  for  drainage  of  rainwater. 

•  Are  drainage  areas  directed  to  sumps,  to  a  treatment  plant,  or  to 
the  environment? 

•  Can  the  drains  be  blocked  or  otherwise  closed? 


34 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


34 


Laboratory  Checklist 

-  Key  Points  and  Potential  Hazards  - 

1.  Unknown  Chemicals 

•  Over  time,  chemicals  can  degrade  into  different,  more 
hazardous  forms. 

•  Older  labs  may  have  used  obsolete  nomenclature,  so  labels  and 
papers  may  be  confusing. 

•  Often,  handwritten  labels  may  be  incorrect. 

•  Packages  may  become  unstable  over  time. 

•  Incompatible  chemicals  may  be  stored  in  close  proximity. 

•  Instruments  and  tubing  may  still  contain  chemicals  and  chemical 
residues. 

2.  Shock  Sensitive  Chemicals 

•  Many  chemicals,  such  as  ethers,  are  peroxidizable  and  so  can 
become  explosively  shock  sensitive  over  time. 


35 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


35 


•  Shock  sensitive  chemicals  can  be  detonated  by  falling  off  a  shelf 
or  by  the  shear  force  generated  by  turning  the  cap.  Some 
chemicals  can  violently  decompose  spontaneously. 

•  Many  common  lab  chemicals  such  as  picric  acid  can,  over  time, 
become  shock  sensitive. 

3.  Cylinders 

•  Cylinders  can  contain  either  liquids  or  gases. 

•  They  can  be  constructed  for  high  pressure  or  low  pressure  use. 

•  Color  coding  is  manufacturer  specific  and  is  not  common  to  the 
industry. 

•  Cylinders  can  hold  extremely  toxic  or  corrosive  materials. 

•  They  should  only  be  examined  and  moved  by  experts. 

•  Structural  instability  is  not  always  visible  from  the  exterior. 

4.  Unknown  Packages 

•  Chemicals  can  be  present  in  a  variety  of  packaging,  apart  from 
the  common  flasks  and  glass  bottles. 

•  Acid  carboys  are  sometimes  shipped  in  cardboard  boxes  or 
wooden  crates. 

•  Radioactive  materials  can  be  shipped  in  metal  flasks  or  small 
boxes. 

5.  Drums 

•  Laboratories  occasionally  maintain  chemicals  in  larger 
containers,  such  as  55 -gallon  drums. 

•  Larger  volume  chemicals  would  typically  be  caustic  cleaners  or 
solvents. 

•  These  drums  commonly  rest  on  their  sides,  incorporate  spigots, 
and  have  a  high  potential  for  leakage. 

•  Note  the  condition  of  the  floor  under  any  drums. 

6.  Drains 

•  Often,  chemicals  have  been  washed  into  floor  drains. 

•  Determine  whether  drains  are  connected  to  sump  pits  or  other 
potential  containment  areas. 

•  Pools  of  chemicals  may  accumulate  in  sumps. 


36 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


36 


•  Incompatible  chemicals  may  generate  toxic  gases  in  drains, 
sumps,  or  drain  lines. 

•  Outfalls  for  these  drains  should  be  examined  for  signs  of 
contamination. 

•  Are  drain  outfalls  directed  to  a  stream,  river,  or  other  sensitive 
area? 


37 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


37 


Industrial  Facility  Checklist 

-  Key  Points  and  Potential  Hazards  - 


1.  Facility 

•  Evaluate  the  structural  stability  of  the  building(s). 

•  Document  whether  asbestos  or  nonasbestos  insulation  was  used. 

•  Document  whether  PCB  or  non-PCB  transformers  were  used. 

•  Document  whether  process  units  are  filled  or  empty,  pressurized 
or  nonpressurized. 

•  Note  the  presence  of  raw  materials,  byproducts,  and  wastes  in 
addition  to  chemical  products. 

•  Obtain  the  history  of  operations,  past  disposal  practices,  and 
chemical  spills. 


38 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


38 


2.  Pipelines 

•  Note  the  structural  stability  of  interior  pipe  racks  and  exterior 
feed  pipes. 

•  Document  whether  asbestos  or  nonasbestos  insulation  was  used. 

•  Note  the  compatibility  of  chemicals  and  pipe  construction 
materials. 

•  Document  whether  pipelines  or  other  types  of  tubing  are  filled 
or  empty. 

•  Note  the  condition  of  valves,  fittings,  joints  and  so  forth. 

•  Research  the  toxicity  and  physical  properties  of  chemicals 
known  to  be  used  at  the  facility. 

3.  Bulk  Storage  Tanks 

•  Evaluate  the  structural  stability  of  the  outer  skin  and  document 
any  signs  of  physical  or  chemical  deterioration. 

•  Document  whether  tanks  are  connected  or  disconnected  to  feed 
pipes. 

•  Document  whether  tanks  are  pressurized  or  nonpressurized, 
insulated  or  noninsulated. 

•  Note  the  condition  of  valves  and  fittings. 

•  Note  the  presence  of  additional  heating  or  cooling  systems  to 
keep  contents  at  a  steady  state. 

•  Research  the  toxicity  and  physical  properties  of  stored 
chemicals. 

4.  Drum  Storage 

•  Note  the  age  of  drums. 

•  Document  whether  drums  are  sheltered  or  exposed  to  the 
elements. 

•  Look  for  any  signs  of  deterioration  or  stress. 

•  Look  for  any  visible  label  or  placard  information. 

•  Look  for  any  visible  stencilled  or  handwritten  information. 

•  The  drum  shape  may  potentially  indicate  the  contents  (i.e.,  acid 
carboy  for  corrosives  or  fiber  drum  for  solids). 

•  If  drum  is  bulging,  determine  whether  bulging  is  due  to  built-up 
pressure  or  to  thermal  expansion/contraction. 

•  Document  whether  drums  contain  pure  chemicals  or  waste 
materials. 


39 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


39 


•  Look  for  any  standing  discolored  water,  stained  soil,  or  stressed 
vegetation,  any  one  of  which  may  indicate  spillage. 

•  Research  the  toxicity  and  physical  properties  of  stored 
chemicals. 

5.  Landfill 

•  Determine  whether  the  landfill  is  permitted  or  unpermitted. 

•  If  permitted,  document  the  materials  known  to  be  present. 

•  Research  the  past  history  of  disposal  practices. 

•  Determine  whether  the  landfill  is  lined  or  unlined. 

•  Research  the  hydrogeology  of  the  area  and  where  the  water  table 
lies  with  respect  to  the  landfill. 

•  Are  there  any  monitoring  or  drinking  water  wells  in  the  area? 

•  Research  the  toxicity  and  physical  properties  of  chemicals 
present. 

6.  Underground  Storage  Tank 

•  Note  the  age  of  tank. 

•  Obtain  the  maintenance  history. 

•  Research  the  hydrogeology  of  the  area;  note  the  location  of  the 
water  table. 

•  Note  the  condition  of  exterior  fittings. 

•  Note  any  seepage  in  the  surrounding  area. 

•  Research  the  toxicity  and  physical  properties  of  stored 
chemicals. 

•  Document  whether  the  tank  is  double  lined  or  has  cathodic 
corrosion  protection. 

•  Look  for  evidence  of  frequent  overflows. 

7.  Lagoon 

•  Note  the  stability  of  berm  construction. 

•  Determine  whether  there  is  sufficient  freeboard  to  avoid 
overflow. 

•  Is  the  lagoon  lined  or  unlined? 

•  Research  the  toxicity  and  physical  properties  of  chemicals 
present. 

•  Research  the  hydrogeology  of  the  area;  where  does  the  water 
table  lie  with  respect  to  the  lagoon. 


40 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


40 


•  Is  secondary  containment  available? 

•  Note  any  standing  discolored  water,  stained  soil,  or  stressed 
vegetation  in  the  area. 

•  Note  any  seepage  through  the  berm. 


What’s  Wrong  With  This  Picture? 

The  map  on  page  42  is  a  modified  version  of  a  map  of  an  actual 
removal  site.  Look  at  the  map  in  terms  of  the  hazard  recognition 
checklists,  pick  out  the  hazards,  then  rank  them  according  to  degree  of 
threat  to  the  site  investigation  team.  What  immediate  threats  does  the 
site  pose  to  the  environment  and  to  the  health  and  welfare  of  any 
residents  nearby?  What  long-term  hazards  are  at  the  site?  What  clues 
to  the  level  of  threat  should  the  investigation  team  look  for  on  site? 

BACKGROUND 

The  All  Cracked  Up  Battery  Corp.  smelted  and  refined  lead 
extruded  from  used  batteries  to  produce  lead  ingots.  The  facility 
operated  for  10  years  until  it  went  bankrupt  and  was  abandoned  two 
years  ago. 

All  Cracked  Up  received  spent  batteries  of  all  sizes  and  had  them 
dumped  on  a  concrete  pad  to  drain  the  acid.  Battery  acid  and 
contaminated  runoff  from  the  pad  were  collected  in  a  sump  and  then 
directed  into  a  hazardous  waste  lagoon.  After  the  acid  was  drained,  the 
batteries  were  transported  from  the  dumping  area  to  a  hammermill, 
where  they  were  crushed  for  materials  separation  and  cleaning. 
Wastewater  from  the  cleaning  process  was  collected  in  a  sump  and 
directed  to  the  lagoon.  After  separation  of  plastics  and  other 
unrecyclable  materials,  the  metal  component  of  the  batteries  was 
smelted  then  refined.  Emissions  from  smelters  were  scrubbed  using  a 
lime  slurry  and  liquid  from  the  lagoon.  Residue  from  the  scrubbing 
process  was  placed  in  a  landfill  on  site.  Emissions  from  the  smelters 
and  refinery  were  also  fed  through  a  bag  house.  The  fly  ash  generated 
from  this  process  was  stored  in  a  building  on  site.  The  fly  ash 
contained  heavy  metals  in  the  three  percent  concentration  range. 


41 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


41 


Crushed  battery  casings  from  the  hammermill  were  left  in  piles 
throughout  the  portion  of  the  site  north  of  the  operations  building  and 
in  the  hazardous  waste  landfill  along  the  east  boundary  fence.  Surface 
runoff  from  the  piles  of  battery  casings  was  collected  in  a  sump  and 
directed  to  the  lagoon,  resulting  in  the  migration  of  small  battery  casing 
chips  into  the  sumps,  drainage  lines,  and  the  lagoon  itself. 

The  lagoon  was  treated  with  lime  to  neutralize  its  contents.  Liquid 
from  the  lagoon  passed  into  the  water  treatment  plant,  where  it  was 
treated  with  flocculants  to  remove  heavy  metals.  The  precipitates  were 
disposed  of  in  the  landfill.  The  treated  water  was  discharged  into  a 
nearby  creek. 

A  site  inspection  by  state  officials  revealed  the  presence  of  a  trench 
between  the  collection  sump  and  a  drainage  ditch,  which  facilitated  the 
bypassing  of  the  lagoon  during  periods  of  heavy  surface  runoff. 
Battery  casing  chips  were  found  throughout  the  course  of  the  drainage 
ditch  and  the  creek  downstream  of  the  site. 


43 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


43 


Piles  of  battery  casing  chips 

•  What  types  of  residues  can  you  expect  to  be  on  the  chips? 

•  Relate  these  residues  to  past  industrial  activities. 

•  How  hazardous  are  these  residues? 

•  Is  there  any  evidence  that  residues  on  these  chips  are  migrating 
from  the  piles,  into  the  sumps,  or  off  site? 

•  How  will  extensive  rainfall  affect  these  piles? 

•  Is  there  vegetation  around  the  piles;  if  so,  in  what  condition  is  it? 

•  Is  there  any  means  by  which  persons  could  gain  access  to  these 
piles,  especially  children? 

Drainage  sumps  and  underground  drainpipes 

•  Runoff  from  the  piles  of  battery  casing  chips  flows  to  several 
drainage  sumps  and  then  into  an  underground  drainpipe  system. 
Is  there  standing  water  around  the  sumps? 

•  If  so,  is  the  water  discolored  and/or  cloudy?  Perform  a  pH  test 
using  pH  paper. 

•  Are  the  drainpipes  clogged? 

•  Where  can  surface  runoff  be  expected  to  pool? 

•  Do  winds  generate  excessive  dusts  in  areas  where  water  can 
collect?  Dusts  are  most  likely  contaminated. 

Liquid  waste  storage  tank 

•  This  container  holds  unknown  waste  material. 

•  Is  there  secondary  containment  around  the  tank?  If  so,  is  it 
sufficient  to  hold  the  contents  of  the  tank? 

•  In  what  condition  is  the  tank;  is  it  corroded;  does  there  appear  to 
be  structural  instability? 

•  Is  there  evidence  that  the  tank  leaks? 

•  Is  there  stressed  vegetation  or  discolored  soil  around  the  tank? 

•  If  there  is  standing  water  near  the  tank,  test  it  with  a  strip  of  litmus 
paper. 

•  Are  there  process  lines  to  and  from  the  tank?  Perhaps  they  are 
underground.  The  lines  may  contain  chemicals  and  chemical 
residues. 

•  Apply  the  checklist  beginning  on  page  32  to  help  determine  the 
hazards  posed  by  the  storage  tank. 


44 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


44 


Hazardous  waste  landfill 

•  Is  the  landfill  lined  or  unlined? 

•  Is  there  evidence  of  leachate  seepage? 

•  If  so,  what  color  is  the  seepage;  is  it  cloudy? 

•  How  does  the  seepage  test  with  pH  paper? 

•  Is  there  access  for  liquids  (precipitation)  into  the  landfill? 

•  Did  the  company  dispose  of  hazardous  liquids  in  the  landfill? 

•  Evaluate  company  records;  remember  that  these  may  be 
deliberately  incorrect. 

•  Is  the  landfill  secure?  Be  sure  that  curious  persons, 
particularly  children,  can  not  gain  access. 

•  Use  the  checklist  beginning  on  page  29  to  help  determine  the 
hazards  posed  by  the  landfill. 

Drainage  basin  and  hazardous  waste  lagoon 

•  Are  the  drainage  basin  and  lagoon  each  lined  or  unlined? 

•  How  much  freeboard  does  each  one  have? 

•  Are  the  process  lines  into  each  free  of  debris? 

•  Is  there  evidence  that  one  or  both  impoundments  has  overflowed 
in  the  past? 

•  Is  there  standing  water  in  the  overflow  trench? 

•  If  so,  what  does  the  water  look  like;  how  does  it  test  with  pH 
paper? 

•  Are  there  battery  casings  in  the  overflow  trench? 

•  Apply  the  checklist  on  page  27  to  the  drainage  basin  and  lagoon. 

Underground  storage  tank 

•  Note  the  presence  of  seepage  along  the  banks  of  the  creek,  which 
may  be  indicative  of  a  release  from  the  storage  tanks. 

•  Review  company  records.  What  type  of  fuel  did  the  facility 
use?  Where  and  how  was  it  stored,  transported  and  burned? 

•  Refer  to  the  discussion  on  page  37  about  chemical  production 
facilities  for  additional  hazards  posed  by  USTs. 


45 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


45 


Air  scrubbers  and  flyash  storage 

•  Ensure  that  access  to  flyash  storage  is  secure,  particularly  from 
curious  children. 

•  Evaluate  all  piping,  process  lines  and  machinery  for  residual 
materials. 

•  Note  the  locations  of  drainage  sumps  and  treatment  tanks. 

•  Do  winds  generate  excessive  dusts?  Dusts  are  most  likely 
contaminated. 

Abandoned  tank  cars 

•  These  should  be  treated  like  storage  tanks  containing  unknown 
chemicals. 

•  Look  for  any  markings  or  placards  on  the  outside  of  the  cars  that 
may  indicate  what  they  contain. 

•  Refer  to  Appendix  1  for  silhouettes  of  railcars  in  order  to 
determine  what  they  may  contain,  e.g.,  pressurized  gas,  corrosive 
materials,  etc. 

•  After  identification,  are  incompatibles  next  to  each  other? 

•  Are  the  cars  structurally  sound  and  uncorroded? 

•  Do  they  appear  to  be  leaking?  Check  ditches,  puddles  and  culverts 
adjacent  to  tanks.  Do  they  contain  free-standing  liquid?  Test  with 
pH  paper. 

•  Apply  the  checklist  beginning  on  page  32  to  the  tank  cars. 

Warehouse 

•  Locate  drainage  sumps,  process  lines,  and  utilities. 

•  Be  aware  of  contaminated  surfaces. 

•  Spent/old  machinery  poses  additional  hazards,  e.g.,  laceration. 

•  Is  the  building  properly  ventilated?  Be  aware  of  confined 
space  entry  hazards. 

•  Are  materials  stored  in  the  warehouse?  Identify  materials  if 
possible. 

•  Are  incompatibles  stored  next  to  each  other? 

•  Ensure  that  the  building  is  structurally  sound  and  that  adequate 
lighting  is  available. 

•  Watch  for  slip,  trip,  and  fall  hazards. 


46 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


46 


Refinery/Smelter 

•  Ensure  that  the  building  and  large  equipment  (kettles,  cranes, 
hammermill)  are  structurally  sound. 

•  Locate  process  lines  and  utilities. 

•  Most  surfaces  in  this  area  will  be  contaminated. 

•  It  is  likely  that  the  atmosphere  in  this  area  is  also  contaminated. 
Watch  for  confined  space  entry  hazards. 

•  Watch  for  slip,  trip  and  fall  hazards. 

Service  Building/Maintenance  Area 

•  Look  for  chemical  hazards,  e.g.,  cleaning  agents,  degreasers  and 
associated  solvents,  stripping  agents,  lubricants,  etc. 

•  Check  for  storage  of  incompatible  materials. 

•  Old  machinery  is  a  potential  source  of  injury. 

•  Most  surfaces  in  this  area  will  be  contaminated. 

•  Note  the  presence  of  gas  cyclinders. 

•  There  may  be  a  fire  and  explosion  threat,  particularly  in  areas  with 
low  ceilings  and  confined  spaces. 

Facility 

•  Thoroughly  evaluate  company  records  to  be  sure  of  industrial 
processes  and  all  materials  involved. 

•  Because  this  facility  was  involved  in  metals  analysis  and  recycling, 
it  is  possible  that  industrial  radiography  may  have  been  used. 
Look  for  radiation  symbols;  scan  with  rad  meter  if  possible. 

•  How  structurally  sound  is  the  building? 

•  What  is  the  condition  of  the  transformer  room?  Is  there  evidence 
of  spilled  oil  which  could  contain  PCBs? 

•  What  is  the  condition  of  the  lab?  Apply  the  checklist  beginning  on 
page  34  to  the  lab. 

•  How  secure  is  the  facility?  Is  there  any  evidence  of  entrance  to  the 
facility,  e.g.,  vandalism,  children  playing? 

Topographies 

•  Is  the  site  upgradient  or  downgradient  to  established  surface 
water  flow  patterns? 

•  Does  surface  water  flow  through  the  site? 


47 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


47 


•  Consult  a  hydrologist  for  groundwater  concerns. 

•  Are  there  waterways  nearby  which  may  be  affected? 

Demographics 

•  What  is  the  prinicipal  use  of  the  land  immediately  adjacent  to  the 
site? 

•  How  close  is  the  nearest  residence? 

•  Is  there  a  possibility  for  off-site  migration  of  contaminants  to 
residential  property? 

•  Are  there  any  sensitive  populations  nearby,  particularly  children 
and  the  elderly? 

•  Does  this  site  have  the  potential  to  affect  the  water  supply  of 
nearby  residents? 

•  Are  there  any  heavy  use  areas  nearby,  e.g.,  schools,  industry, 
hospitals,  shopping  centers,  farming,  recreational  areas, 
convalescent  homes? 

•  Is  there  any  other  local  industry  which  may  have  contributed  to 
problems  with  this  site? 


After  thoroughly  evaluating  all  known  aspects  of  the  site,  it  is 
necessary  to  make  a  preliminary  judgment  about  the  degree  of 
threat  posed  by  this  facility.  At  many  sites,  the  conclusion  will 
often  be  that  the  facility  does  pose  a  threat,  but  the  threat  should 
be  thoroughly  characterized  to  determine  whether  the  site  qualifies 
as  a  candidate  for  an  immediate  action,  or  if  the  site  is  secure 
enough  to  wait  for  a  long-term  cleanup.  Assistance  in  these 
decisions  can  be  provided  by  review  of  the  NCP.  If  the  All 
Cracked  Up  Battery  Site,  or  another  site,  meets  any  of  the  criteria 
in  the  NCP  for  a  removal  action,  then  site  conditions  may  be 
considered  an  emergency  situation.  Emergency  situations  do  not 
always  involve  the  classic  fire  and  explosion,  or  oil  spill. 
Frequently,  emergency  actions  involve  the  stabilization  of  time 
critical  threats  until  the  non-time  critical  threats  associated  with  the 
site  can  be  addressed.  Further  assistance  in  emergency 
determination  for  a  facility  such  as  the  one  pictured  here  can  be 
obtained  through  consultation  with  any  of  the  Section  Chiefs  and 
On-Scene  Coordinators  (OSCs)  in  the  Removal  Branch. 


48 


REMOVAL  ASSESSMENT 


48 


Additional  Guidance  Documents 

EPA  (U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency).  1990.  "Superfund 
Removal  Procedures  Manual,"  OSWER  Directive  9360.3-01.  Office 
of  Solid  Waste  and  Emergency  Response.  Washington,  DC. 
December. 

EPA.  1992.  "Guidance  for  Performing  Site  Inspections  Under 
CERCLA."  Office  of  Emergency  and  Remedial  Response. 
Washington,  DC.  September. 

EPA.  1991.  "Removal  Program  Representative  Sampling  Guidance," 
Volume  1-Soil,  PB892-963408.  Office  of  Emergency  and  Remedial 
Response.  Washington,  DC.  November. 


Emergency  Removal 
Guidelines 


To  help  resolve  incongruities  in  the  screening  process  for 
determination  of  the  necessity  for  removal  actions,  the  EPA  Region  III 
Technical  Support  Section  has  developed  the  following  list  of 
emergency  removal  trigger  guidelines.  This  list  was  designed  for  use 
only  as  a  screening  tool  to  aid  RPMs  and  OSCs  in  the  characterization 
of  emergency  threats  associated  with  uncontrolled  hazardous  waste 
sites.  This  list  is  by  no  means  intended  to  be  the  sole  foundation  for 
cleanup  decisions.  Rather,  it  is  meant  to  function  as  just  one  of  many 
sources  of  information  that  the  decision  maker  should  rely  upon.  Users 
of  earlier  editions  of  this  handbook  will  note  that  the  guidelines  have 
been  considerably  revised,  due  to  changes  in  the  model  used  to  generate 
the  numeric  values. 

Toxicological  values  are  listed  in  this  table  as  absolute 
concentrations.  That  is,  no  calculations  or  manipulations  of  these 
values  are  necessary  to  use  this  list.  To  use  this  list,  simply  compare 
data  from  sampling  analyses  to  concentrations  on  the  list.  If  the  results 
of  an  analysis  are  slightly  below,  equal  to,  or  above  the  values  listed 
in  the  table,  then  there  is  a  possibility  that  an  emergency  health  threat 
may  be  present  at  that  particular  site.  In  any  situation  involving  the 
possibility  of  an  emergency  health  threat,  an  EPA  toxicologist  should 
be  consulted. 


50 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


50 


The  toxicological  values  on  this  list  were  obtained  through 
extensive  research  and  evaluation  of  toxicological  data  bases,  compiled 
through  toxicity  testing  of  the  compounds,  epidemiological  studies, 
actual  exposure  incidences  (i.e.,  workplace  exposure,  suicide  attempts, 
accidental  poisonings),  and  past  experiences  of  the  agency.  Values 
derived  from  this  broad  range  of  investigative  methods  undergo  review 
and  verification  before  they  are  permitted  to  be  published.  This  list, 
therefore,  represents  the  most  recent  advances  in  toxicological 
determination  and  risk  assessment. 

We  must  emphasize,  however,  that  this  list  has  not 
undergone  extensive  peer  review.  It  is  intended  for  internal  use 
only  and  should  not  be  considered  as  EPA  policy.  Field  personnel 
should  use  caution  when  referring  to  this  list  in  any  way  that  may 
imply  EPA’s  endorsement  of  these  values. 


Assumptions  Used  in  Calculating  the  Reference  Levels 

As  the  toxicology  section  of  this  guide  explains,  there  is 
biological  variation  in  all  human  populations,  causing  variation  in  the 
individual  response  to  a  particular  dose  of  a  toxin.  Therefore,  even 
though  the  response  of  the  total  population  is  predictable,  the  response 
of  any  one  person  within  the  exposed  population  is  unpredictable. 
Certain  assumptions  about  biological  variation  must  be  made  to  develop 
response  models  to  assess  risk  and  to  predict  response.  The  following 
assumptions  are  the  basis  of  the  model  used  to  develop  the  reference 
values  that  begin  on  page  54: 

•  Carcinogen  levels  correspond  to  an  upper  bound  lifetime  risk  of  1  x 
104.  Noncarcinogen  levels  correspond  to  a  hazard  quotient  of  10. 
The  hazard  quotient  for  drinking  water  is  1 . 

•  Exposure  comes  from  a  single  medium,  except  in  the  case  of 
drinking  water.  In  this  case,  concentrations  are  based  on  both  intake 
of  drinking  water  and  inhalation  of  vapors,  where  appropriate. 

•  Exposure  to  residents  continues  for  30  years,  but  toxic  effects  from 
noncarcinogens  may  occur  in  as  little  as  one  year. 


51 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


51 


•  For  calculation  purposes,  adults  weigh  70  kilograms  and  children 
weigh  15  kilograms;  the  life  span  is  70  years. 

•  Soil  levels  include  only  ingestion  exposure;  they  omit  inhalation  and 
dermal  contact. 

•  The  amount  of  drinking  water  ingested  is  2  liters  per  day.  Com¬ 
pounds  with  Henry’s  Law  constants  greater  than  104  atm  m3/mol  are 
substantially  volatilized  during  household  tap  water  use.  Each  ug/1 
in  water  produces  an  indoor  air  concentration  of  0.5  ug/m3. 

•  Residential  soil  exposure  for  adults  is  based  on  consumption  of  100 
milligrams  of  soil  per  day,  for  30  years.  Consumption  by  children 
is  200  milligrams  per  day  for  6  years. 

•  Industrial  soil  exposure  is  based  on  consumption  of  100  milligrams 
of  soil  per  day,  250  days  per  year,  for  25  years. 

•  Adults  inhale  20  cubic  meters  of  air  per  day. 

•  Fish  ingestion  is  54  grams  per  day. 

•  These  criteria  are  based  on  long-term  exposure  periods.  Exposure 
to  higher  doses  of  toxic  materials  may  produce  adverse  effects  within 
a  much  shorter  time  frame,  i.e.,  within  days  or  weeks. 

NOTE:  When  the  numerical  values  were  generated  from  the  model, 
no  attempt  was  made  to  stop  a  calculation  greater  than  the  total 
concentration.  This  means,  for  example,  that  if  a  compound  has  a 
worker  soil  ingestion  value  over  1  million  mg/kg  (1  million  parts  per 
million),  then  from  an  emergency  perspective  the  compound  does  not 
pose  a  toxic  threat  to  workers  via  soil  ingestion.  Values  over  the  total 
concentration  are  useful  in  comparing  the  relative  toxicity  of  several 
compounds,  so  they  were  kept  in  place. 

NOTE:  The  Risk-Based  Concentration  (RBC)  Table  is  updated 
annually.  Use  the  latest  version  of  the  RBC  Table  in  calculating 
emergency  removal  guidelines. 


52 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


52 


Following  the  list  of  emergency  removal  trigger  guidelines  is 
the  list  of  removal  numeric  action  levels  for  contaminated  drinking 
water  sites.  This  list  was  prepared  by  the  U.S.  EPA  Office  of  Solid 
Waste  and  Emergency  Response,  Emergency  Response  Division  and 
released  in  March  1995.  The  list  reflects  EPA  and  oral  toxicity  data 
and  associated  health  criteria  available  for  the  listed  chemicals.  The 
toxicity  data  has  been  obtained  from  EPA’s  Integrated  Risk  Information 
System  (IRIS),  and  EPA’s  Health  Effects  Assessment  Summary  Tables 
(HEAST). 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 

1997 

Technical  Support  Section 

Region  III  (3HW41) 

841  Chestnut  Street 

Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania  19107 

Exposure  Variables 

Value 

1  -  General: 

Carcinogenic  potency  slope  oral  (kg-d/mg): 

* 

Carcinogenic  potency  slope  inhaled  (kg-d/mg): 

* 

Reference  dose  oral  (mg/kg/d): 

* 

Reference  dose  inhaled  (mg/kg/d): 

* 

Target  cancer  risk: 

IE-04 

Target  hazard  quotient: 

10 

Body  weight,  adult  (kg): 

70 

Body  weight,  age  1  -  6  (kg): 

15 

Averaging  time  carcinogens  (d): 

25550 

Averaging  time  non-carcinogens  (d): 

ED*365 

Air  inhaled,  adult  (m3/d): 

20 

Air  inhaled,  age  1  -  6  (m3/d): 

12 

EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


53 


53 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 

1997 

Technical  Support  Section 

Region  III  (3HW41) 

841  Chestnut  Street 

Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania  19107 

Exposure  Variables 

Value 

Inhalation  factor,  age  adjusted  (m3-y/kg-d): 

11.66 

Tap  water  ingested,  adult  (L/d): 

2 

Tap  water  ingested,  age  1  -  6  (L/d): 

1 

Tap  water  ingestion  factor,  age  adjusted  (L-y/kg-d): 

1.09 

Fish  ingested  (g/d): 

54 

Soil  ingested,  adult  (mg/d): 

100 

Soil  ingested,  age  1  -  6  (md/d): 

200 

Soil  ingestion  factor,  age  adjusted  (mg-y/kg-d): 

114.29 

2  -  Residential: 

Exposure  frequency  (d/y): 

350 

Exposure  duration,  (total)(y): 

30 

Exposure  duration,  age  1  -  6  (y): 

6 

Volatilization  factor  (L/m3): 

0.5 

3  -  Occupational: 

Exposure  frequency  (d/y): 

250 

Exposure  duration  (y): 

25 

Fraction  of  contaminated  soil  ingested  (unidess): 

0.5 

*  =  Contaminant-specific  toxicity  parameters 

54 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


54 


C-  carcinogen 

N- noncarcinogen 

. 

Ambient 

Soil 

• 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residentia 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

Acephate 

770  C 

72  C 

36  C 

66000  C 

7300  C  • 

Acetaldehyde 

94  N 

81  C 

0 

0 

o 

Acetochlor 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Acetone 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

2000000  N 

78000  N 

Acetone  cyanohydrin 

2600  N 

1500  N 

950  N 

1400000  N 

55000  N  ! 

Acetonitrile 

220  N 

520  N 

81  N 

120000  N 

4700  N  | 

Acetophenone 

0.042  N 

0.21  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N  | 

Acifluorfen 

470  N 

470  N 

180  N 

270000  N 

10000  N 

Acrolein 

730  N 

0.21  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Acrylamide 

1.5  C 

0.14  C 

0.07  C 

130  C 

14  C 

Acrylic  acid 

18000  N 

10  N 

6800  N 

1000000  N 

390000  N 

Acrylonitrile 

12  C 

2.6  C 

0.58  C 

1100  C 

120  C 

Alachlor 

84  C 

7.8  C 

3.9  C 

7200  C 

800  C 

Alar 

5500  N 

5500  N 

2000  N 

1000000  N 

120000  N 

Aldicarb 

37  N 

37  N 

14  N 

20000  N 

780  N 

Aldicarb  sulfone 

37  N 

37  N 

14  N 

20000  N 

780  N 

Aldrin 

0.4  C 

0.037  C 

0.019  C 

34  C 

3.8  C 

Ally 

9100  N 

9100  N 

3400  N 

1000000  N 

200000  N 

Allyl  alcohol 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Allyl  chloride 

1800  N 

10  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Aluminum 

37000  N 

37000  N 

14000  N 

1000000  N 

780000  N 

Aluminum  phosphide 

15  N 

15  N 

5.4  N 

8200  N 

310  N 

Amdro 

11  N 

11  N 

4.1  N 

6100  N 

230  N 

Ametryn 

330  N 

330  N 

120  N 

180000  N 

7000  N 

m  Aminophenol 

2600  N 

2600  N 

950  N 

1000000  N 

55000  N 

4-Aminopyridine 

0.73  N 

0.73  N 

0.27  N 

410  N 

16  N 

Amitraz 

91  N 

91  N 

34  N 

51000  N 

2000  N 

Ammonia 

1000  N 

1000  N 

0 

0 

0 

Ammonium  sulfamate 

7300  N 

7300  N 

2700  N 

1000000  N 

160000  N 

Aniline 

10  N 

10  N 

55  C 

100000  C 

11000  C 

Antimony  and  compounds 

15  N 

15  N 

5.4  N 

8200  N 

310  N 

Antimony  pentoxide 

18  N 

18  N 

6.8  N 

10000  N 

390  N 

Antimony  potassium  tartrate 

33  N 

33  N 

12  N 

18000  N 

700  N 

Antimony  tetroxide 

15  N 

15  N 

5.4  N 

8200  N 

310  N 

Antimony  trioxide 

15  N 

15  N 

5.4  N 

8200  N 

310  N 

Apollo 

470  N 

470  N 

180  N 

270000  N 

10000  N 

Aramite 

270  C 

25  C 

13  C 

23000  C 

2600  C 

55 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


55 


C-  carcinogen 

N- noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

Arsenic 

11  N 

11  N 

4.1  N 

6100  N 

230  N 

Arsenic  (as  carcinogen) 

4.5  C 

0.041  C 

0.21  C 

380  C 

43  C 

Arsine 

0.52  N 

0.52  N 

0 

0 

0 

Assure 

330  N 

330  N 

120  N 

180000  N 

7000  N 

Asulam 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Atrazine 

30  C 

2.8  C 

1.4  C 

2600  C 

290  C 

Avermectin  B1 

15  N 

15  N 

5.4  N 

8200  N 

310  N 

Azobenzene 

61  C 

5.8  C 

2.9  C 

5200  C 

580  C 

Barium  and  compounds 

2600  N 

5.2  N 

950  N 

1000000  N 

55000  N 

Baygon 

150  N 

150  N 

54  N 

82000  N 

3100  N 

Bayleton 

1100  N 

1100  N 

410  N 

610000  N 

23000  N 

Baythroid 

910  N 

910  N 

340  N 

510000  N 

20000  N 

Benefin 

11000  N 

11000  N 

4100  N 

1000000  N 

230000  N 

Benomyl 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Bentazon 

91  N 

91  N 

34  N 

51000  N 

2000  N 

Benzaldehyde 

610  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Benzene 

36  C 

22  C 

11  C 

20000  C 

2200  C 

Benzenethiol 

0.37  N 

0.37  N 

0.14  N 

200  N 

7.8  N 

Benzidine 

0.029  C 

0.0027  C 

0.0014  C 

2.5  C 

0.28  C 

Benzoic  acid 

150000  N 

150000  N 

54000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

Benzotrichloride 

0.52  C 

0.048  C 

0.024  C 

44  C 

4.9  C 

Benzyl  alcohol 

11000  N 

11000  N 

4100  N 

1000000  N 

230000  N 

Benzyl  chloride 

6.2  C 

3.7  C 

1.9  C 

3400  C 

380  C 

Beryllium  and  compounds 

1.6  C 

0.075  C 

0.073  C 

130  C 

15  C 

Bidrin 

3.7  N 

3.7  N 

1.4  N 

2000  N 

78  N 

Biphenthrin  (Talstar) 

550  N 

550  N 

200  N 

310000  N 

12000  N 

1,1  Biphenyl 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Bis(2chloroethyl)ether 

0.92  C 

0.54  C 

0.29  C 

520  C 

58  C 

Bis(2-chloroisopropyl)ether 

26  C 

18  C 

4.5  C 

8200  C 

910  C 

Bis(chloromethyl)ether 

0.0049  C 

0.0029  C 

0.0014  C 

2.6  C 

0.29  C 

Bis(2-chloro- 1  -methylethyDether 

96  C 

8.9  C 

4.5  C 

8200  C 

910  C 

Bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate  (DEHP) 

480  C 

45  C 

23  C 

41000  C 

4600  C 

Bisphenol  A 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Boron  (and  borates) 

3300  N 

210  N 

1200  N 

1000000  N 

70000  N 

Boron  trifluoride 

7.3  N 

7.3  N 

0 

0 

0 

Bromodichloromethane 

17  C 

10  C 

5.1  C 

9200  C 

1000  C 

Bromoethene 

9.6  C 

5.7  C 

0 

0 

0 

56 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


56 


C- carcinogen 

N-  noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

u 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

Bromoform  (tribromomethane) 

240  C 

160  C 

40  C 

72000  C 

8100  C, 

Bromomethane 

8.7  N 

52  N 

19  N 

29000  N 

1100  N 

4-Bromophenyl  phenyl  ether 

2100  N 

2100  N 

780  N 

1000000  N 

45000  N 

Bromophos 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Bromoxynil 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Bromoxynil  octanoate 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

1,3-Butadiene 

1.1  C 

0.64  C 

0 

0 

0 

1 -Butanol 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Butyl  benzyl  phthalate 

7300  N 

7300  N 

2700  N 

1000000  N 

160000  N 

Butylate 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

sec  Butylbenzene 

61  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

tert-Butylbenzene 

61  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

Butylphthalyl  butylglycolate 

37000  N 

37000  N 

14000  N 

1000000  N 

780000  N 

Cacodylic  acid 

110  N 

110  N 

41  N 

61000  N 

2300  N 

Cadmium  and  compounds 

18  N 

0.099  C 

6.8  N 

10000  N 

390  N 

Caprolactam 

18000  N 

18000  N 

6800  N 

1000000  N 

390000  N 

Captafol 

780  C 

73  C 

37  C 

67000  C 

74  C 

Captan 

1900  C 

180  C 

90  C 

160000  C 

18000  C 

Carbaryl 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Carbofuran 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Carbon  disulfide 

1000  N 

7300  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Carbon  tetrachloride 

16  C 

12  C 

2.4  C 

4400  C 

490  C 

Carbosulfan 

370  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

Carboxin 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Chloral 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

Chloramben 

550  N 

550  N 

200  N 

310000  N 

12000  N 

Chloranil 

17  C 

1.6  C 

0.78  C 

1400  C 

160  C 

Chlordane 

5.2  C 

0.49  C 

0.24  C 

440  C 

49  C 

Chlorimuron  ethyl 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Chlorine 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Chlorine  dioxide 

2.1  N 

2.1  N 

0 

0 

0 

Chloroacetaldehyde 

250  N 

250  N 

93  N 

140000  N 

5400  N 

Chloroacetic  acid 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

2-Chloroacetophenone 

0.31  N 

0.31  N 

0 

0 

0 

4-Chloroaniline 

150  N 

150  N 

54  N 

82000  N 

3100  N 

Chlorobenzene 

39  N 

210  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Chlorobenzilate 

25  C 

2.3  C 

1.2  C 

2100  C 

240  C 

57 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


57 


C-  carcinogen 

N- noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

p-Chlorobenzoic  acid 

7300  N 

7300  N 

2700  N 

1000000  N 

160000  N 

4-Chlorobenzotrifluoride 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

2-Chloro-  1,3-butadiene 

14  N 

73  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

1-Chlorobutane 

2400  N 

15000  N 

5400  N 

1000000  N 

310000  N 

Chlorodibromomethane 

13  C 

7.5  C 

3.8  C 

6800  C 

760  C 

1  Chloro- 1 , 1  difluoroethane 

87000  N 

520000  N 

0 

0 

0 

Chlorodifluoromethane 

87000  N 

520000  N 

0 

0 

0 

Chloroethane 

8600  N 

100000  N 

5400  N 

1000000  N 

310000  N 

2-Chloroethyl  vinyl  ether 

150  N 

910  N 

340  N 

510000  N 

20000  N 

Chloroform 

15  C 

7.8  C 

52  C 

94000  C 

7800  N 

Chloromethane 

140  C 

99  C 

24  C 

44000  C 

4900  C 

4-Chloro-2,2methylaniline  hydrochloride 

15  C 

1.4  C 

0.69  C 

1200  C 

140  C 

4-Chloro-2-methylaniline 

12  C 

1.1  C 

0.54  C 

990  C 

110  C 

beta-Chloronaphthalene 

2900  N 

2900  N 

1100  N 

1000000  N 

63000  N 

o-Chloronitrobenzene 

42  C 

25  C 

13  C 

23000  C 

2600  C 

p-Chloronitrobenzene 

59  C 

35  C 

18  C 

32000  C 

3500  C 

2-Chlorophenol 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

2-Chloropropane 

170  N 

1000  N 

0 

0 

0 

Chlorothalonil 

610  C 

57  C 

29  C 

52000  C 

5800  C 

o-Chlorotoluene 

120  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Chlorpropham 

7300  N 

7300  N 

2700  N 

1000000  N 

160000  N 

Chlorpyrifos 

110  N 

110  N 

41  N 

61000  N 

2300  N 

Chlorpyrifosmethyl 

370  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

Chlorsulfuron 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Chlorthiophos 

29  N 

29  N 

11  N 

16000  N 

630  N 

Chromium  III  and  compounds 

37000  N 

0.021  N 

14000  N 

1000000  N 

780000  N 

Chromium  VI  and  compounds 

180  N 

0.015  C 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Coal  tar 

0 

0.28  C 

0 

0 

0 

Cobalt 

2200  N 

2200  N 

810  N 

1000000  N 

47000  N 

Coke  Oven  Emissions 

0 

0.29  C 

0 

0 

0 

Copper  and  compounds 

1500  N 

1500  N 

540  N 

820000  N 

31000  N 

Crotonaldehyde 

3.5  C 

0.33  C 

0.17  C 

300  C 

34  C 

Cumene 

1500  N 

94  N 

540  N 

820000  N 

31000  N 

Cyanides: 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Barium  cyanide 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Calcium  cyanide 

1500  N 

1500  N 

540  N 

820000  N 

31000  N 

•’Chlorine  cyanide 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

58 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


58 


C-  carcinogen 

N- noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

Copper  cyanide 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Cyanazine 

8  C 

0.75  C 

0.38  C 

680  C 

76  C 

Cyanogen 

1500  N 

1500  N 

540  N 

820000  N 

31000  N 

Cyanogen  bromide 

3300  N 

3300  N 

1200  N 

1000000  N 

70000  N 

Cyanogen  chloride 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Free  cyanide 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Hydrogen  cyanide 

730  N 

31  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Potassium  cyanide 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Potassium  silver  cyanide 

7300  N 

7300  N 

2700  N 

1000000  N 

160000  N 

Silver  cyanide 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Sodium  cyanide 

1500  N 

1500  N 

540  N 

820000  N 

31000  N 

Thiocyanate 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Zinc  cyanide 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Cyclohexanone 

30000  N 

180000  N 

68000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

Cyclohexlamine 

7300  N 

7300  N 

2700  N 

1000000  N 

160000  N 

Cyhalothrin/Karate 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Cypermethrin 

370  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

Cyromazine 

270  N 

270  N 

100  N 

150000  N 

5900  N 

Dacthal 

370  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

Dalapon 

1100  N 

1100  N 

410  N 

610000  N 

23000  N 

Danitol 

910  N 

910  N 

340  N 

510000  N 

20000  N 

DDD 

28  C 

2.6  C 

1.3  C 

2400  C 

270  C 

DDE 

20  C 

1.8  C 

0.93  C 

1700  C 

190  C 

DDT 

20  C 

1.8  C 

0.93  C 

1700  C 

190  C 

Decabromodiphenyl  ether 

61  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

Demeton 

1.5  N 

1.5  N 

0.54  N 

820  N 

31  N 

Diallate 

17  C 

10  C 

5.2  C 

9400  C 

1000  C 

Diazinon 

33  N 

33  N 

12  N 

18000  N 

700  N 

Dibenzofuran 

150  N 

150  N 

54  N 

82000  N 

3100  N 

1,4  Dibromobenzene 

61  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

1 ,2  Dibromo  3-chloropropane 

4.8  C 

2.1  N 

0.23  C 

410  C 

46  C 

1,2-Dibromoethane 

0.075  C 

0.81  C 

0.0037  C 

6.7  C 

0.75  C„ 

Dibutyl  phthalate 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Dicamba 

1100  N 

1100  N 

410  N 

610000  N 

23000  N 

1,2-Dichlorobenzene 

270  N 

1500  N 

1200  N 

1000000  N 

70000  N 

1,3-Dichlorobenzene 

540  N 

3200  N 

1200  N 

1000000  N 

70000  N 

1,4-Dichlorobenzene 

44  C 

26  C 

13  C 

24000  C 

2700  C 

59 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


59 


C- carcinogen 

N-  noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

3,3'Dichlorobenzidine 

15  C 

1.4  C 

0.7  C 

1300  C 

140  C 

1,4-Dichloro-2-butene 

0.11  C 

0.067  C 

0 

0 

0 

Dichlorodifluoromethane 

390  N 

2100  N 

2700  N 

1000000  N 

160000  N 

1,1-Dichloroethane 

810  N 

5200  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

1,2  Dichloroethane  (EDC) 

12  C 

6.9  C 

3.5  C 

6300  C 

700  C 

1 , 1  -Dichloroethylene 

4.4  C 

3.6  C 

0.53  C 

950  C 

110  C 

1,2-Dichloroethylene  (cis) 

61  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

1,2-Dichloroethylene  (trans) 

120  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

1,2-Dichloroethylene  (mixture) 

55  N 

330  N 

120  N 

180000  N 

7000  N 

2,4-Dichlorophenol 

110  N 

110  N 

41  N 

61000  N 

2300  N 

2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic  Acid  (2,4-D) 

61  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

4-(2,4-Dichlorophenoxy)butyric  Acid 

290  N 

290  N 

110  N 

160000  N 

6300  N 

1,2-Dichloropropane 

16  C 

9.2  C 

4.6  C 

8400  C 

940  C 

2,3-Dichloropropanol 

110  N 

110  N 

41  N 

61000  N 

2300  N 

1,3  Dichloropropene 

7.7  C 

4.8  C 

1.8  C 

3300  C 

230  N 

Dichlorvos 

23  C 

2.2  C 

1.1  C 

2000  C 

220  C 

Dicofol 

15  C 

1.4  C 

0.72  C 

1300  C 

150  C 

Dicyclopentadiene 

0.42  N 

2.1  N 

410  N 

610000  N 

23000  N 

Dieldrin 

0.42  C 

0.039  C 

0.02  C 

36  C 

4  C 

Diesel  emissions 

52  N 

52  N 

0 

0 

0 

Diethyl  phthalate 

29000  N 

29000  N 

11000  N 

1000000  N 

630000  N 

Diethylene  glycol,  monobutyl  ether 

210  N 

210  N 

0 

0 

0 

Diethylene  glycol,  monoethyl  ether 

73000  N 

73000  N 

27000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

Diethylforamide 

400  N 

400  N 

150  N 

220000  N 

8600  N 

Di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate 

5600  C 

520  C 

260  C 

480000  C 

53000  C 

Diethylstilbestrol 

0.0014  C 

0.00013  C 

0.000067  C 

0.12  C 

0.014  C 

Difenzoquat  (Avenge) 

2900  N 

2900  N 

1100  N 

1000000  N 

63000  N 

Diflubenzuron 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

1,1-Difluoroethane 

69000  N 

420000  N 

0 

0 

0 

Diisopropyl  methylphosphonate  (DIMP) 

2900  N 

2900  N 

1100  N 

1000000  N 

63000  N 

Dimethipin 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Dimethoate 

7.3  N 

7.3  N 

2.7  N 

4100  N 

160  N 

3,3'Dimethoxybenzidine 

480  C 

45  C 

23  C 

41000  C 

4600  C 

Dimethylamine 

0.21  N 

0.21  N 

0 

0 

0 

2,4-Dimethylaniline  hydrochloride 

12  C 

1.1  C 

0.54  C 

990  C 

110  C 

2,4-Dimethylaniline 

9  C 

0.83  C 

0.42  C 

760  C 

85  C 

N  N-Dimethylaniline 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

60 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


60 


C-  carcinogen 

N-  noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

3,3’Dimethylbenzidine 

0.73  C 

0.068  C 

0.034  C 

62  C 

6.9  C 

N,N  Dimethylformamide 

3700  N 

310  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

1,1  -Dimethylhydrazine 

2.6  C 

0.18  C 

0.12  C 

220  C 

25  C 

1,2-Dimethylhydrazine 

0.18  C 

0.017  C 

0.0085  C 

15  C 

1.7  C 

2,4  Dimethylphenol 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

2,6  Dimethylphenol 

22  N 

22  N 

8.1  N 

12000  N 

470  N 

3,4  Dimethylphenol 

37  N 

37  N 

14  N 

20000  N 

780  N 

Dimethyl  phthalate 

370000  N 

370000  N 

140000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

Dimethyl  terephthalate 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

1 ,2-Dinitrobenzene 

15  N 

15  N 

5.4  N 

8200  N 

310  N 

1,3-Dinitrobenzene 

3.7  N 

3.7  N 

1.4  N 

2000  N 

78  N 

1,4-Dinitrobenzene 

15  N 

15  N 

5.4  N 

8200  N 

310  N 

4,6-Dinitro-o-cyclohexyl  phenol 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

2,4-Dinitrophenol 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

Dinitrotoluene  mixture 

9.9  C 

0.92  C 

0.46  C 

840  C 

94  C 

2,4-Dinitrotoluene 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

2,6 Dinitrotoluene 

37  N 

37  N 

14  N 

20000  N 

780  N 

Dinoseb 

37  N 

37  N 

14  N 

20000  N 

780  N 

di  n  Octyl  phthalate 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

1,4-Dioxane 

610  C 

57  C 

29  C 

52000  C 

5800  C 

Diphenamid 

1100  N 

1100  N 

410  N 

610000  N 

23000  N 

Diphenylamine 

910  N 

910  N 

340  N 

510000  N 

20000  N 

1,2-Diphenylhydrazine 

8.4  C 

0.81  C 

0.39  C 

720  C 

80  C 

Diquat 

80  N 

80  N 

30  N 

45000  N 

1700  N 

Direct  black  38 

0.78  C 

0.073  C 

0.037  C 

67  C 

7.4  C 

Direct  blue  6 

0.83  C 

0.077  C 

0.039  C 

71  C 

7.9  C 

Direct  brown  95 

0.72  C 

0.067  C 

0.034  C 

62  C 

6.9  C 

Disulfoton 

1.5  N 

1.5  N 

0.54  N 

820  N 

31  N 

1,4  Dithiane 

370  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

Diuron 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

Dodine 

150  N 

150  N 

54  N 

82000  N 

3100  N 

Endosulfan 

220  N 

220  N 

81  N 

120000  N 

4700  N 

Endothall 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Endrin 

11  N 

11  N 

4.1  N 

6100  N 

230  N 

Epichlorohydrin 

680  C 

10  N 

32  C 

58000  C 

6500  C 

1,2-Epoxybutane 

210  N 

210  N 

0 

0 

0 

Ethephon  (2-chloroethyl  phosphonic  acid) 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

61 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


61 


C- carcinogen 

N-  noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

Ethion 

18  N 

18  N 

6.8  N 

10000  N 

390  N 

2-Ethoxyethanol  acetate 

11000  N 

11000  N 

4100  N 

1000000  N 

230000  N 

2-Ethoxyethanol 

15000  N 

2100  N 

5400  N 

1000000  N 

310000  N 

Ethyl  acrylate 

140  C 

13  C 

6.6  C 

12000  C 

1300  C 

EPTC  (S  Ethyl  dipropylthiocarbamate) 

910  N 

910  N 

340  N 

510000  N 

20000  N 

Ethyl  acetate 

33000  N 

33000  N 

12000  N 

1000000  N 

700000  N 

Ethylbenzene 

1300  N 

10000  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Ethylene  cyanohydrin 

11000  N 

11000  N 

4100  N 

1000000  N 

230000  N 

Ethylene  diamine 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Ethylene  glycol 

73000  N 

73000  N 

27000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

Ethylene  glycol,  monobutyl  ether 

210  N 

210  N 

0 

0 

0 

Ethylene  oxide 

6.6  C 

1.8  C 

0.31  C 

560  C 

63  C 

Ethylene  thiourea  (ETU) 

57  C 

5.3  C 

2.7  C 

4800  C 

540  C 

Ethyl  ether 

1200  N 

7300  N 

2700  N 

1000000  N 

160000  N 

Ethyl  methacrylate 

3300  N 

3300  N 

1200  N 

1000000  N 

70000  N 

Ethyl  p  nitrophenyl  phenylphosphorothioate 

0.37  N 

0.37  N 

0.14  N 

200  N 

7.8  N 

Ethylnitrosourea 

0.048  C 

0.0045  C 

0.0023  C 

4.1  C 

0.46  C 

Ethylphthalyl  ethyl  glycolate 

110000  N 

110000  N 

41000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

Express 

290  N 

290  N 

110  N 

160000  N 

6300  N 

Fenamiphos 

9.1  N 

9.1  N 

3.4  N 

5100  N 

200  N 

Fluometuron 

470  N 

470  N 

180  N 

270000  N 

10000  N 

Fluoride 

2200  N 

2200  N 

810  N 

1000000  N 

47000  N 

Fluoridone 

2900  N 

2900  N 

1100  N 

1000000  N 

63000  N 

Flurprimidol 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Flutolanil 

2200  N 

2200  N 

810  N 

1000000  N 

47000  N 

Fluvalinate 

370  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

Folpet 

1900  C 

180  C 

90  C 

160000  C 

18000  C 

Fomesafen 

35  C 

3.3  C 

1.7  C 

3000  C 

340  C 

Fonofos  - 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

Formaldehyde 

7300  N 

14  C 

2700  N 

1000000  N 

160000  N 

Formic  Acid 

73000  N 

73000  N 

27000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

Fosetyl-al 

110000  N 

110000  N 

41000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

Furan 

37  N 

37  N 

14  N 

20000  N 

780  N 

Furazolidone 

1.8  C 

0.16  C 

0.083  C 

150  C 

17  C 

Furfural 

110  N 

520  N 

41  N 

61000  N 

2300  N 

Furium 

0.13  C 

0.013  C 

0.0063  C 

11  C 

1.3  C 

Furmecyclox 

220  C 

21  C 

11  C 

19000  C 

2100  C 

62 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


62 


C-  carcinogen 

N- noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

Glufosinate-ammonium 

15  N 

15  N 

5.4  N 

8200  N 

310  N, 

Glycidaldehyde 

15  N 

10  N 

5.4  N 

8200  N 

310  N 

Glyphosate 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Haloxyfop  methyl 

1.8  N 

1.8  N 

0.68  N 

1000  N 

39  N 

Harmony 

470  N 

470  N 

180  N 

270000  N 

10000  N 

HCH  (alpha) 

1.1  C 

0.099  C 

0.05  C 

91  C 

10  C 

HCH  (beta) 

3.7  C 

0.35  C 

0.18  C 

320  C 

35  C 

HCH  (gamma)  Lindane 

5.2  C 

0.48  C 

0.24  C 

440  C 

49  C 

HCH-technical 

3.7  C 

0.35  C 

0.18  C 

320  C 

35  C 

Heptachlor 

0.23  C 

0.14  C 

0.07  C 

130  C 

14  C 

Heptachlor  epoxide 

0.12  C 

0.069  C 

0.035  C 

63  C 

7  C 

Hexabromobenzene 

12  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

Hexachlorobenzene 

0.66  C 

0.39  C 

0.2  C 

360  C 

40  C 

Hexachlorobutadiene 

14  C 

8.1  C 

4.0  C 

7300  C 

820  C 

Hexachlorocyclopentadiene 

0.15  N 

0.73  N 

95  N 

140000  N 

5500  N 

Hexachlorodibenzo  p-dioxin  mixture 

0.0011  C 

0.00014  C 

0.000051  C 

0.092  C 

0.01  C 

Hexachloroethane 

75  C 

45  C 

23  C 

410000  C 

4600  C 

Hexachlorophene 

11  N 

11  N 

4.1  N 

6100  N 

230  N 

Hexahydro- 1 ,3,5-trinitro- 1 ,3,5-triazine 

61  C 

5.7  C 

2.9  C 

5200  C 

580  C 

1,6  Hexamethylene  diisocyanate 

0.1  N 

0.1  N 

0 

0 

0 

n-Hexane 

350  N 

2100  N 

810  N 

1000000  N 

47000  N 

Hexazinone 

1200  N 

1200  N 

450  N 

670000  N 

26000  N 

Hydrazine,  hydrazine  sulfate 

2.2  C 

0.037  C 

0.11  C 

190  C 

21  C 

Hydrogen  chloride 

210  N 

210  N 

0 

0 

0 

Hydrogen  sulfide 

110  N 

10  N 

41  N 

61000  N 

2300  N 

Hydroquinone 

1500  N 

1500  N 

540  N 

820000  N 

31000  N 

Imazalil 

470  N 

470  N 

180  N 

270000  N 

10000  N 

Imazaquin 

9100  N 

9100  N 

3400  N 

1000000  N 

200000  N 

Iprodione 

1500  N 

1500  N 

540  N 

820000  N 

31000  N 

Iron 

11000  N 

11000  N 

4100  N 

1000000  N 

230000  N 

Isobutanol 

1800  N 

11000  N 

4100  N 

1000000  N 

230000  N 

Isophorone 

7100  C 

660  C 

330  C 

600000  C 

67000  C 

Isopropalin 

550  N 

550  N 

200  N 

310000  N 

12000  N 

Isopropyl  methyl  phosphonic  acid 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Isoxaben 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Kepone 

0.37  C 

0.035  C 

0.018  C 

32  C 

3.5  C 

Lactofen 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

63 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


63 


C- carcinogen 

N- noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

Linuron 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

Lithium 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Londax 

7300  N 

7300  N 

2700  N 

1000000  N 

160000  N 

Malathion 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Maleic  anhydride 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Maleic  hydrazide 

18000  N 

18000  N 

6800  N 

1000000  N 

390000  N 

Malononitrile 

0.73  N 

0.73  N 

0.27  N 

410  N 

16  N 

Mancozeb 

1100  N 

1100  N 

410  N 

610000  N 

23000  N 

Maneb 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

**  Manganese  and  compounds 

840  N 

0.52  N 

310  N 

470000  N 

18000  N 

Mephosfolan 

3.3  N 

3.3  N 

1.2  N 

1800  N 

70  N 

Mepiquat  chloride 

1100  N 

1100  N 

410  N 

610000  N 

23000  N 

Mercuric  chloride 

11  N 

11  N 

4.1  N 

6100  N 

230  N 

Mercury  (inorganic) 

11  N 

3.1  N 

4.1  N 

6100  N 

230  N 

Mercury  (methyl) 

3.7  N 

3.7  N 

1.4  N 

2000  N 

78  N 

Merphos 

1.1  N 

1.1  N 

0.41  N 

610  N 

23  N 

Merphos  oxide 

1.1  N 

1.1  N 

0.41  N 

610  N 

23  N 

Metalaxyl 

2200  N 

2200  N 

810  N 

1000000  N 

47000  N 

Methacrylonitrile 

3.7  N 

7.3  N 

1.4  N 

2000  N 

78  N 

Methamidophos 

1.8  N 

1.8  N 

0.68  N 

1000  N 

39  N 

Methanol 

18000  N 

18000  N 

6800  N 

1000000  N 

390000  N 

Methidathion 

37  N 

37  N 

14  N 

20000  N 

780  N 

Methomyl 

910  N 

910  N 

340  N 

510000  N 

20000  N 

Methoxychlor 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

2-Methoxyethanol  acetate 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

2-Methoxyethanol 

37  N 

210  N 

14  N 

20000  N 

780  N 

2  Methoxy-5  nitroaniline 

150  C 

14  C 

6.9  C 

12000  C 

1400  C 

Methyl  acetate 

37000  N 

37000  N 

14000  N 

1000000  N 

780000  N 

Methyl  acrylate 

1100  N 

1100  N 

410  N 

610000  N 

23000  N 

2-Methylaniline  hydrochloride 

37  C 

3.5  C 

1.8  C 

3200  C 

350  C 

2-Methylaniline 

28  C 

2.6  C 

1.3  C 

2400  C 

270  C 

Methyl  chlorocarbonate 

37000  N 

37000  N 

14000  N. 

1000000  N 

780000  N 

4-(2-Methyl-4-chlorophenoxy)  butyric  acid 

370  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

2-Methyl-4-chlorophenoxyacetic  acid 

18  N 

18  N 

6.8  N 

10000  N 

390  N 

2-(2-Methyl- 1 4  chlorophenoxy)propionic  acid 

37  N 

37  N 

14  N 

20000  N 

780  N 

Methylcyclohexane 

31000  N 

31000  N 

0 

0 

0 

Methylene  bromide 

61  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

64 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


64 


C- carcinogen 

N- noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

Methylene  chloride 

410  C 

380  C 

42  C 

76000  C 

8500  C 

4,4’  Methylene  bis(2-chloroaniline) 

52  C 

4.8  C 

2.4  C 

4400  C 

490  C 

4,4'Methylenebisbenzeneamine 

27  C 

2.5  C 

1.3  C 

2300  C 

260  C 

4,4'Methylene  bis(N,N'dimethyl)aniline 

150  C 

14  C 

6.9  C 

12000  C 

1400  C 

4,4'  Methylenediphenyl  isocyanate 

0.035  N 

0.21  N 

0 

0 

0 

Methyl  ethyl  ketone 

1900  N 

10000  N 

8100  N 

1000000  N 

470000  N 

Methyl  hydrazine 

6.1  C 

0.57  C 

0.29  C 

520  C 

58  C 

Methyl  isobutyl  ketone 

2900  N 

840  N 

1100  N 

1000000  N 

63000  N 

Methyl  methacrylate 

2900  N 

2900  N 

1100  N 

1000000  N 

63000  N 

2Methyl-5nitroaniline 

200  C 

19  C 

9.6  C 

17000  C 

1900  C 

Methyl  parathion 

9.1  N 

9.1  N 

3.4  N 

5100  N 

200  N 

2  Methylphenol  (o-cresol) 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

3  Methylphenol  (m-cresol) 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

4  Methylphenol  (p-cresol) 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Methyl  styrene  (mixture) 

60  N 

420  N 

81  N 

120000  N 

4700  N 

Methyl  styrene  (alpha) 

430  N 

2600  N 

950  N 

1000000  N 

55000  N 

Methyl  tertbutyl  ether  (MTBE) 

180  N 

31000  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Metolaclor  (Dual) 

5500  N 

5500  N 

2000  N 

1000000  N 

120000  N 

Metribuzin 

910  N 

910  N 

340  N 

510000  N 

20000  N 

Mirex 

3.7  C 

0.35  C 

0.18  C 

320  C 

35  C 

Molinate 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

Molybdenum 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Monochloramine 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Naled 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

2-Naphthylamine 

0.052  C 

0.0048  C 

0.0024  C 

4.4  C 

0.49  C 

Napropamide 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Nickel  refinery  dust 

0 

0.75  C 

0 

0 

0 

Nickel  and  compounds 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Nickel  subsulfide 

0 

0.37  C 

0 

0 

0 

Nitrapyrin 

55  N 

55  N 

20  N 

31000  N 

1200  N 

Nitrate 

58000  N 

58000  N 

22000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

Nitric  oxide 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

Nitrite 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

2-Nitroaniline 

2.2  N 

2.1  N 

0.81  N 

1200  N 

47  N 

3-Nitroaniline 

110  N 

110  N 

41  N 

61000  N 

2300  N 

4  Nitroaniline 

110  N 

110  N 

41  N 

61000  N 

2300  N 

Nitrobenzene 

3.4  N 

21  N 

6.8  N 

10000  N 

390  N 

65 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


65 


C-  carcinogen 

N-  noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

Nitrofurantoin 

2600  N 

2600  N 

950  N 

1000000  N 

55000  N 

Nitrofurazone 

4.5  C 

0.067  C 

0.21  C 

380  C 

43  C 

Nitrogen  dioxide 

37000  N 

37000  N 

14000  N 

1000000  N 

780000  N 

Nitroguanidine 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

4  Nitrophenol 

2300  N 

2300  N 

840  N 

1000000  N 

48000  N 

2  Nitropropane 

210  N 

0.067  C 

0 

0 

0 

N  Nitrosodi-n-butylamine 

1.2  C 

0.11  C 

0.058.  C 

110  C 

12  C 

N-Nitrosodiethanolamine 

2.4  C 

0.22  C 

0.11  C 

200  C 

23  C 

N-Nitrosodiethylamine 

0.045  C 

0.0041  C 

0.0021  C 

3.8  C 

0.43  C 

N  Nitrosodimethylamine 

0.13  C 

0.013  C 

0.0062  C 

11  C 

1.3  C 

N  Nitrosodiphenylamine 

1400  C 

130  C 

.  64  C 

*120000  C 

13000  C 

N-Nitroso  di  n-propylamine 

0.96  C 

0.089  C 

0.045  C 

82  C 

9.1  C 

N  Nitroso-N  methylethylamine 

0.31  C 

0.028  C 

0.014  C 

26  C 

2.9  C 

N  Nitrosopyrrolidine 

3.2  C 

0.29  C 

0.15  C 

270  C 

30  C 

m-Nitrotoluene 

61  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

o  Nitrotoluene 

61  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

p  Nitrotoluene 

61  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

Norflurazon 

1500  N 

1500  N 

540  N 

820000  N 

31000  N 

NuStar 

26  N 

26  N 

9.5  N 

14000  N 

550  N 

Octabromodiphenyl  ether 

110  N 

110  N 

41  N 

61000  N 

2300  N 

Octahydro- 1 357-tetranitro- 1 357-tetrazocine 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Octamethylpyrophosphoramide 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

Oryzalin 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Oxadiazon 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Oxamyl 

910  N 

910  N 

340  N 

510000  N 

20000  N 

Oxyfluorfen 

110  N 

110  N 

41  N 

61000  N 

2300  N 

Paclobutrazol 

470  N 

470  N 

180  N 

270000  N 

10000  N 

Paraquat 

160  N 

160  N 

61  N 

92000  N 

3500  N 

Parathion 

220  N 

220  N 

81  N 

120000  N 

4700  N 

Pebulate 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Pendimethalin 

1500  N 

1500  N 

540  N 

820000  N 

31000  N 

Pentabromo-6-chloro  cyclohexane 

290  C 

27  C 

14  C 

25000  C 

2800  C 

Pentabromodiphenyl  ether 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

Pentachlorobenzene 

4.9  N 

29  N 

11  N 

16000  N 

630  N 

Pentachloronitrobenzene 

4.1  C 

2.4  C 

1.2  C 

2200  C 

250  C 

Pentachlorophenol 

56  C 

5.2  C 

2.6  C 

4800  C 

530  C 

Permethrin 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

66 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


66 


C- carcinogen 

N- noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

4 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

Phenmedipham 

9100  N 

9100  N 

3400  N 

1000000  N 

200000  N . 

Phenol 

22000  N 

22000  N 

8100  N 

1000000  N 

470000  N 

m-Phenylenediamine 

220  N 

220  N 

81  N 

120000  N 

4700  N 

p-Phenylenediamine 

6900  N 

6900  N 

2600  N 

1000000  N 

150000  N 

Phenylmercuric  acetate 

2.9  N 

2.9  N 

1.1  N 

1600  N 

63  N 

2-Phenylphenol 

3500  C 

320  C 

160  C 

300000  C 

33000  C 

Phorate 

7.3  N 

7.3  N 

2.7  N 

4100  N 

160  N 

Phosmet 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Phosphine 

11  N 

3.1  N 

4.1  N 

6100  N 

230  N 

Phosphoric  acid 

100  N 

100  N 

0 

0 

0 

Phosphorus  (white) 

0.73  N 

0.73  N 

0.27  N 

410  N 

16  N 

p-Phthalic  acid 

37000  N 

37000  N 

14000  N 

1000000  N 

780000  N 

Phthalic  anhydride 

73000  N 

1300  N 

27000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

Picloram 

2600  N 

2600  N 

950  N 

1000000  N 

55000  N 

Pirimiphos-methyl 

370  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

Polybrominated  biphenyls 

0.76  C 

0.07  C 

0.035  C 

64  C 

5.5  N 

Polychlorinated  biphenyls  (PCBs) 

3.35  C 

0.313  C 

0.160  C 

286  C 

31.9  C 

Aroclor  1016 

2.6  N 

2.6  N 

0.95  N 

1400  N 

55  N 

Aroclor  1254 

0.73  N 

0.73  N 

0.27  N 

410  N 

16  N 

Polychlorinated  terphenyls  (PCTs) 

1.5  C 

0.14  C 

0.07  C 

130  C 

14  C 

Polynuclear  aromatic  hydrocarbons 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Acenaphthene 

2200  N 

2200  N 

810  N 

1000000  N 

47000  N 

Anthracene 

11000  N 

11000  N 

4100  N 

1000000  N 

230000  N 

Benz[a]anthracene 

9.2  C 

1  C 

0.43  C 

780  C 

88  C 

Benzo[b]fluoranthene 

9.2  C 

1  C 

0.43  C 

780  C 

88  C 

Benzo[k]fluoranthene 

92  C 

10  C 

4.3  C 

7800  C 

870  C 

Benzo[a]pyrene 

0.92  C 

0.1  C 

0.043  C 

78  C 

8.8  C 

Carbazole 

340  C 

31  C 

16  C 

29000  C 

3200  C 

Chrysene 

920  C 

100  C 

43  C 

78000  C 

8700  C 

Dibenz[ah]anthracene 

0.92  C 

0.1  C 

0.043  C 

78  C 

8.8  C 

Fluoranthene 

1500  N 

1500  N 

540  N 

820000  N 

31000  N 

Fluorene 

1500  N 

1500  N 

540  N 

820000  N 

31000  N 

Indenod, 2, 3cd]pyrene 

9.2  C 

1  C 

0.43  C 

780  C 

88  C 

Naphthalene 

1500  N 

1500  N 

540  N 

820000  N 

31000  N 

Pyrene 

1100  N 

1100  N 

410  N 

610000  N 

23000  N 

Prochloraz 

45  C 

4.2  C 

2.1  C 

3800  C 

430  C 

Profluralin 

220  N 

220  N 

81  N 

120000  N 

4700  N 

67 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


67 


C-  carcinogen 

N-  noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

Prometon 

550  N 

550  N 

200  N 

310000  N 

12000  N 

Prometryn 

150  N 

150  N 

54  N 

82000  N 

3100  N 

Pronamide 

2700  N 

2700  N 

1000  N 

1000000  N 

59000  N 

Propachlor 

470  N 

470  N 

180  N 

270000  N 

10000  N 

Propanil 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Propargite 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Propargyl  alcohol 

73  N 

73  N 

27  N 

41000  N 

1600  N 

Propazine 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Propham 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Propiconazole 

470  N 

470  N 

180  N 

270000  N 

10000  N 

Propylene  glycol 

730000  N 

730000  N 

270000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

Propylene  glycol,  monoethyl  ether 

26000  N 

26000  N 

9500  N 

1000000  N 

550000  N 

Propylene  glycol,  monomethyl  ether 

26000  N 

21000  N 

9500  N 

1000000  N 

550000  N 

Propylene  oxide 

28  C 

49  C 

1.3  C 

2400  C 

270  C 

Pursuit 

9100  N 

9100  N 

3400  N 

1000000  N 

200000  N 

Pydrin 

910  N 

910  N 

340  N 

510000  N 

20000  N 

Pyridine 

37  N 

37  N 

14  N 

20000  N 

780  N 

Quinalphos 

18  N 

18  N 

6.8  N 

10000  N 

390  N 

Quinoline 

0.56  C 

0.052  C 

0.026  C 

48  C 

5.3  C 

Resmethrin 

1100  N 

1100  N 

410  N 

610000  N 

23000  N 

Ronnel 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Rotenone 

150  N 

150  N 

54  N 

82000  N 

3100  N 

Savey 

910  N 

910  N 

340  N 

510000  N 

20000  N 

Selenious  Acid 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Selenium 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Selenourea 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Sethoxydim 

3300  N 

3300  N 

1200  N 

1000000  N 

70000  N 

Silver  and  compounds 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Simazine 

56  C 

5.2  C 

2.6  C 

4800  C 

530  C 

Sodium  azide 

150  N 

150  N 

54  N 

82000  N 

3100  N 

Sodium  diethyldithiocarbamate 

25  C 

2.3  C 

1.2  C 

2100  C 

240  C 

Sodium  fluoroacetate 

0.73  N 

0.73  N 

0.27  N 

410  N 

16  N 

Sodium  metavanadate 

37  N 

37  N 

14  N 

20000  N 

780  N 

Strontium,  stable 

22000  N 

22000  N 

8100  N 

1000000  N 

470000  N 

Strychnine 

11  N 

11  N 

4.1  N 

6100  N 

230  N 

Styrene 

1600  N 

10000  N 

2700  N 

1000000  N 

160000  N 

Systhane 

910  N 

910  N 

340  N 

510000  N 

20000  N 

68 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


68 


C- carcinogen 

N-  noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

4 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

2,3,7.8-TCDD  (dioxin) 

0.000043  C 

0.0000054  C 

0.000002  C 

0.0037  C 

0.00041  C 

f 

Tebuthiuron 

2600  N 

2600  N 

950  N 

1000000  N 

55000  N 

Temephos 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Terbacil 

470  N 

470  N 

180  N 

270000  N 

10000  N 

Terbufos 

0.91  N 

0.91  N 

0.34  N 

510  N 

20  N 

Terbutryn 

37  N 

37  N 

14  N 

20000  N 

780  N 

1 ,2,4,5-Tetrachlorobenzene 

1.8  N 

11  N 

4.1  N 

6100  N 

230  N 

1,1, 1 ,2-T  etrachloroethane 

41  C 

24  C 

12  C 

22000  C 

2500  C 

1,1,2,2-T  etrachloroethane 

5.2  C 

3.1  C 

1.6  C 

2900  C 

320  C 

Tetrachloroethylene  (PCE) 

110  C 

310  C 

6.1  C 

11000  C 

1200  C 

2,3,4,6-Tetrachlorophenol 

1100  N 

1100  N 

410  N 

610000  N 

23000  N 

p,a,a,a-Tetrachlorotoluene 

0.053  C 

0.031  C 

0.016  C 

29  C 

3.2  C 

Tetrachlorovinphos 

280  C 

26  C 

13  C 

24000  C 

2700  C 

Tetraethyldithiopyrophosphate 

18  N 

18  N 

6.8  N 

10000  N 

390  N 

Tetraethyl  lead 

0.0037  N 

0.0037  N 

0.0014  N 

2  N 

0.078  N 

1,1, 1 ,2-Tetrafluoroethane 

140000  N 

840000  N 

0 

0 

0 

Thallic  oxide 

2.6  N 

2.6  N 

0.95  N 

1400  N 

55  N 

Thallium 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Thallium  acetate 

3.3  N 

3.3  N 

1.2  N 

1800  N 

70  N 

Thallium  carbonate 

2.9  N 

2.9  N 

1.1  N 

1600  N 

63  N 

Thallium  chloride 

2.9  N 

2.9  N 

1.1  N 

1600  N 

63  N 

Thallium  nitrate 

3.3  N 

3.3  N 

1.2  N 

1800  N 

70  N 

Thallium  selenite 

3.3  N 

3.3  N 

1.2  N 

1800  N 

70  N 

Thallium  sulfate 

2.9  N 

2.9  N 

1.1  N 

1600  N 

63  N 

Thiobencarb 

370  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

2-{Thiocyanomethylthio)  benzothiazole 

1100  N 

1100  N 

410  N 

610000  N 

23000  N 

Thiofanox 

11  N 

11  N 

4.1  N 

6100  N 

230  N 

Thiophanate-methyl 

2900  N 

2900  N 

1100  N 

1000000  N 

63000  N 

Thiram 

180  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Tin  and  compounds 

22000  N 

22000  N 

8100  N 

1000000  N 

470000  N 

Toluene 

750  N 

4200  N 

2700  N 

1000000  N 

160000  N 

Toluene-2, 4-diamine 

2.1  C 

0.2  C 

0.099  C 

180  C 

20  C 

Toluene-2, 5-diamine 

22000  N 

22000  N 

8100  N 

1000000  N 

470000  N 

Toluene-2, 6-diamine 

7300  N 

7300  N 

2700  N 

1000000  N 

160000  N 

p-Toluidine 

35  C 

3.3  C 

1.7  C 

3000  C 

340  C 

Toxaphene 

6.1  C 

0.56  C 

0.29  C 

520  C 

58  C 

Tralomethrin 

270  N 

270  N 

100  N 

150000  N 

5900  N 

69 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


69 


C-  carcinogen 

N- noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

Triailate 

470  N 

470  N 

180  N 

270000  N 

10000  N 

Triasuifuron 

370  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

1,2,4-Tribromobenzene 

30  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

Tributyltin  oxide  (TBTO) 

1.1  N 

1.1  N 

0.41  N 

610  N 

23  N 

2,4,6-Trichloroaniline  hydrochloride 

230  C 

22  C 

11  C 

20000  C 

2200  C 

2,4,6-Trichloroaniline 

200  C 

18  C 

9.3  C 

17000  C 

1900  C 

1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene 

190  N 

2100  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

*  1 , 1 , 1  -T  richloroethane 

790  N 

10000  N 

470  N 

720000  N 

27000  N 

1,1,2-Trichloroethane 

19  C 

11  C 

5.5  C 

10000  C 

1100  C 

Trichloroethylene  (TCE) 

160  C 

100  C 

29  C 

52000  C 

4700  N 

T  richlorofluoromethane 

1300  N 

7300  N 

4100  N 

1000000  N 

230000  N 

2,4,5-Trichlorophenol 

3700  N 

3700  N 

1400  N 

1000000  N 

78000  N 

2,4,6-Trichlorophenol 

610  C 

57  C 

29  C 

52000  C 

5800  C 

2,4,5-T richlorophenoxyacetic  acid 

370  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

2-(2,4,5-T  richlorophenoxylpropionic  acid 

290  N 

290  N 

110  N 

160000  N 

6300  N 

1 , 1 ,2-T  richloropropane 

30  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

1,2,3-Trichloropropane 

0.15  C 

0.089  C 

0.045  C 

82  C 

9.1  C 

1,2,3  Trichloropropene 

30  N 

180  N 

68  N 

100000  N 

3900  N 

1,1,2-T  richloro- 1,2,2-  trifluoroethane 

59000  N 

310000  N 

410000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

Tridiphane 

110  N 

110  N 

41  N 

61000  N 

2300  N 

Triethylamine 

73  N 

73  N 

0 

0 

0 

Trifluralin 

870  C 

81  C 

41  C 

74000  C 

5900  N 

1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene 

300  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene 

300  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

Trimethyl  phosphate 

180  C 

17  C 

8.5  C 

15000  C 

1700  C 

1,3,5-Trinitrobenzene 

1.8  N 

1.8  N 

0.68  N 

1000  N 

39  N 

T  rinitrophenylmethylnitramine 

370  N 

370  N 

140  N 

200000  N 

7800  N 

2,4,6-Trinitrotoluene 

18  N 

18  N 

6.8  N 

10000  N 

390  N 

Uranium  (soluble  salts) 

110  N 

110  N 

41  N 

61000  N 

2300  N 

Vanadium 

260  N 

260  N 

95  N 

140000  N 

5500  N 

Vanadium  pentoxide 

330  N 

330  N 

120  N 

180000  N 

7000  N 

Vanadium  sulfate 

730  N 

730  N 

270  N 

410000  N 

16000  N 

Vernam 

37  N 

37  N 

14  N 

20000  N 

780  N 

Vinclozolin 

910  N 

910  N 

340  N 

510000  N 

20000  N 

Vinyl  acetate 

37000  N 

2100  N 

14000  N 

1000000  N 

780000  N 

Vinyl  bromide 

5.2  N 

31  N 

0 

0 

0 

Vinyl  chloride 

1.9  C 

2.1  C 

0.17  C 

300  C 

34  C 

70 


EMERGENCY  REMOVAL  GUIDELINES 


70 


C- carcinogen 

N-  noncarcinogen 

Ambient 

Soil 

Tap 

Ambient 

Industrial/ 

Water 

Air 

Fish 

Commerical 

Residential 

Contaminant 

ug/L 

ug/m3 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

mg/kg 

Warfarin 

11  N 

11  N 

4.1  N 

6100  N 

230  N 

m-Xylene 

1400  N 

7300  N 

27000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

o-Xylene 

1400  N 

7300  N 

27000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

p-Xylene 

520  N 

3100  N 

0 

0 

0 

Xylene  (mixed) 

12000  N 

73000  N 

27000  N 

1000000  N 

1000000  N 

Zinc 

11000  N 

11000  N 

4100  N 

1000000  N 

230000  N 

Zinc  phosphide 

11  N 

11  N 

4.1  N 

6100  N 

230  N 

Zineb 

1800  N 

1800  N 

680  N 

1000000  N 

39000  N 

URTH-STAR  Short-term  Risk  Level  (STAR)  recommended  for  an  Unreasonable  Risk  to  Health  (URTH)  under  the  Safe  Drinking  Water  Act  (SWDA) 


ft 

03 


2  £ 


o 


o 

m 

r 


n 

> 

GO 


£ 

n 

r 


cr 

os 

C/3 

rt> 

o. 

o 

3 


ft 

O 

*3 

03 

cr 


o 

•-h 

B ■ 

O) 


a 

03 


n> 

3 

rt- 

rt 

a 

o 

g* 

o_ 

o' 

09 

v; 


£ 

£ 

£ 

p**  • 

03 

03 

X 

X 

o’ 

3 

1 

§' 

*Tl 

3 

3 

3 

3 

cr 

n 

n 

C/i 

o 

o 

3 

3 

CD 

& 

P 

■-» 

3 

3 

r 

p" 

S' 

rt 

03 

03 

<T> 

3 

3 

*1 

rt 

rt 

r 

r 

n 

m 

< 

< 

ft 

ft 

o 

o 

Z 

£L 

rt 
x—  • 

2,  D 


£ 

rt 

CD 
*-i 

53 

rt 
03 

& 

> 
o. 
< 

u‘ 

o 

o' 

O  'I 

3 

E  © 

-d 

i-i  3- 

o 

09 
03 

3 

o 
3* 


3 

03 

C3 


£ 

03 

ft 

*1 

GO 

& 

3 

CL 

03 


o 

o 

g 

3 

3 

• 

£ 


re 


rt 

“i 

£■ 

o 

’-h 

o 

£ 

03 

E 

Ft 

o 

>-» 

09 

T3 

ft 

>1 

1 

Q. 

03 

'< 

03 

D. 

•-h 

3_ 

O 

rt 

3 

•a 

o 

'-j 

ft 

v; 

• 

09 

ft 

3“ 

03 

rt 

*1 

C/3 

n 

3 ‘ 
a 


o 

£L 

> 

cr 

c /3 


03 

o 

rt 

Z 

3 

3 

a* 

o 


H 

03 

CT 

?T 

> 

o 

-1 

o 

3 

'< 

3 

c/3 


ft 


3  03. 


ft 


Q. 

Cl 

<’ 

5.' 

s 

cr 

B 

o 

03 

< 

ft 

-1 

03 

09 

ft 

< 

O 

cf 

3 

a 


<1 

H 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


Aldicarb  sulfoxide 

Aldicarb  sulfone 

Aldicarb  (Temik) 

Alachlor 

Adipates  (Diethylhexyl) 

Acrylonitrile 

Acrylamide  (2-Propenamide) 

Acifluorfen  (Tackle) 

Acetone 

Acenaphthene 

ORGANICS 

Chemical 

i 

1646884 

116063 

15972608 

103231 

107131 

79061 

62476599 

67641 

83329 

O 

> 

C/5 

a 

D 

O 

DO 

to 

n 

2 

DD 

to 

DD 

to 

U 

i 

Cancer 

Group 

Cancer  Risk 

■ 

t 

• 

$ 

3,000 

CN 

- 

100 

l 

i 

c'  —  ° 

^5  o  i. 

—  l-t 

v> 

vi 

Vi 

V) 

Vi 

400 

20,000 

1 

-4 

400 

u> 

3 

b 

2,100 

DWEL 

(ug/L) 

Standards  and  Health  Advisories 

• 

• 

• 

i  i 

20,000 

I 

to 

O 

100 

- 

i 

Longer- 
term  HA 
Child 
(ug/L) 

7/7 

7/7 

7/7 

2/0 

400/400 

1 

© 

treat/0 

i 

© 

I 

i 

MCL/ 

MCLG 

(ug/L) 

i 

i 

1 

4^ 

O 

i 

1 

- 

i 

■ 

• 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

V> 

'VI 

U> 

L/\ 

u> 

Vi 

S 

4,000 

O' 

- 

100 

3,500 

2,100 

Removal 

Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

Superfund 

to 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


Bromochloromethane 

Bromacil 

bis-2-Chloroisopropyl  ether 

Benzo(k)fluoranthene 

Benzo(b)fluoranthene 

Benzo(a)pyrene 

Benzene 

Benz(a)anthracene 

Bentazon 

Baygon 

Atrazine 

Anthracene 

Ammonium  sulfamate 

Ametyrn 

Aldrin 

Chemical 

ORGANICS 

74975 

314409 

108601 

207089 

205992 

50328 

71432 

56553 

25057890 

114261 

1912249 

120127 

7773060 

834128 

309002 

O 

> 

C/3 

U 

at 

n 

o 

B2 

B2 

B2 

> 

B2 

a 

n 

n 

o 

O 

o 

B2 

Cancer 

Group 

n 

w 

3 

n 

• 

i 

i 

i 

i 

I 

100 

I 

i 

i 

i 

i 

I 

i 

0.2 

iijjs  O 

w  5  £  s 

CK 

-t 

& 

oo' 

500 

5,000 

1,000 

i 

I 

i 

I 

i 

S 

100 

200 

11,000 

00 

S 

- 

DWEL 

(ug/L) 

Standards  and  Health  Advisories 

1,000 

3,000 

4,000 

i 

I 

l 

i 

I 

300 

40 

50 

■ 

20,000 

006 

0.3 

Longer- 
term  HA 
Child 
(ug/L) 

I 

I 

I 

0.2/0 

0.2/0 

0.2/0 

5/0 

o/ro 

i 

I 

3/3 

1 

i 

I 

• 

cT 

<5.  P  o 

c  Sc 

i 

i 

i 

l 

i 

I 

100 

• 

-/20 

I 

30 

1 

I 

■ 

■ 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

50 

3,000 

1,000 

i 

i 

0.2 

100 

i 

300 

40 

30 

11,000 

00 

300 

0.2 

Superfund 

Removal 

Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

<1 

u> 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


Chloramben 

Chloral  hydrate  (Trichloroacetaldehyde 

monohydrate) 

Carboxin 

Carbon  tetrachloride 

Carbofuran 

Carbaryl 

Butylate 

Butyl  benzyl  phthalate 

Butanone  (2-)  (see  Methyl  ethyl  ketone) 

Bromomethane  (Methyl  bromide) 

Bromoform 

Bromodichloromethane 

Chemical 

ORGANICS 

133904 

302170 

5234684 

56235 

1563662 

63252 

2008415 

85687 

74839 

75252 

75274 

o 

> 

03 

**: 

O 

n 

U 

03 

N> 

w 

D 

a 

n 

D 

03 

K> 

00 

K> 

Cancer 

Group 

Cancer  Risk 

i 

t 

• 

O 

i 

I 

i 

i 

I 

400 

8 

| 

500 

8 

4,000 

u> 

o 

200 

4,000 

2,000 

000 ‘9 

o 

700 

700 

DWEL 

(ug/L) 

Standards  and  Health  Advisories 

200 

200 

1,000 

^4 

O 

O 

1,000 

1,000 

• 

100 

2,000 

4,000 

Longer- 
term  HA 
Child 
(ug/L) 

i 

60740 

i 

5/0 

40/40 

1  i 

I 

100/0 

• 

8 

oo 

o 

3* 

© 

oo 

o 

3" 

© 

M  CL/ 
MCLG 

(ug/L) 

i 

• 

• 

U) 

o 

o 

• 

i 

1 

i 

• 

• 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

200 

s 

1,000 

U> 

o 

u» 

o 

1,000 

1,000 

7,000 

Crt 

o 

400 

>— A 

8 

Removal 

Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

Superfund 

<1 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


in 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


o 

=r 


o 

65 

O 

cp 

a. 

o 

65 

o 


o 

65 

3 

CT 


tx 

c 

£ 

cr 

Ex 

6s_ 

5“ 

c? 


3 

i 

to 

C 

£ 

TO 

3* 


a 
^  • 

cr 

►i 

o 

3 

o 

3 

cp 

& 

65 

3 

cp 


cp 

s- 

FT 

3 

n> 


D. 

CD 


a 

a*' 

>3 

O 

3 

o 

n 

e 

o 

o 

■a 

"i 

O 

■a 

65 

3 

a 

0 

DO 

o 

•v 


CT*  -• 


O 

3 

o 

3 

cp 

5* 

P 

3 

n> 


o 

3 

o 

o 

E 

o 

>-» 

o 

3 

a 

5- 

p 

3 

CP 

c n 
CP 
CP 

o 

E 

o 

■-i 

o 

Q- 


O 

3 

o 

85 

o 

CP 

o 

3. 

9 

3.' 

CP 


5T 

g 

o 

E 

3- 

_ I 

85 

3 

& 

3 

o 

(P 

3 

CP 


CO 

I 

CP 

& 

t< 

Er 

CP 

X 

r< 

is" 

D. 

■a’ 

65 

r-* 

cv 


a 

£L 

.65 

8 

3 


o 

65 

O 

5- 

0 

n 

"TO 

> 


CO 


CO 

<s 

4^ 

I 

D 

o' 

E 

o 

—I 

o 

TO 

3* 

CP 

3 

O 

X 

o; 

65 

O 

CP 


o 

jo 

a 

> 

2: 

►-H 

n 

on 


n 

Sf 


o 

E 


-o 

VO 

co 

Os 


SO 

00 


SO 


00 

4^ 

-o 

■P 

CO 


'■J 

45. 

so 

C/t 

co 


SO 

Os 

CO 

00 


co 

to 

c/t 

CO 

40 

co 

C/t 


tot 

CO 

-o 

o 

co 


CO 

co 

CO 

-p* 

c/1 


o 

co 

CO 

co 


-o 

C/I 

so 

8 


00 

os 

co 

CO 


SO 

4^ 

-J 

tot 

-o 


n 

> 

on 


DO 

CO 


DO 

CO 


n 


DO 

CO 


m 


n 


o  n 

=.  s 

§  o 
«  £? 


n 

65 

I 

CP 


C/) 

Pi¬ 


co 


00 


CO 


8 


c 

00 


CO 


tot 


co 


3  S' 


S'  o  _ 

W  cr  3  3 
E  ^  00 

>  $ 


00 

£ 

s» 

65 

E 

00 

65 

H. 

x 

CP 

E 

S* 

> 
o. 
< 
M  * 

C/5 

o 

3. 

CP 

w 


O 

CO 

© 


o 

co 

o 


CO 

8 

CO 


-4 

o 

-o 

o 


c 

0Q 


2  s 

r  Q 
a  - 


to 


3 

qo 

r 


r 

CP 


00 

H 


C 

<5*3 

2.  w  3 


co 


CO 


00 


CO 


CO 


'a 

«  b  §  3 

r  §.  I‘3 


00 

c 

•a 

CP 

3* 


<1 

CT» 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


Dichloropropane  (1,2-) 

Dichlorophenol  (2,4-) 

Dichloromethane  (Methylene  chloride) 

Dichloroethylene  (trans-  1,2-) 

Dichloroethylene  (cis-  1,2-) 

Dichloroethylene  (1,1-) 

Dichloroethane  (1,2-)  (Ethylene 

dichloride) 

Dichloroethane  (1,1-) 

Dichlorodifluoromethane  (Freon- 12) 

Dichlorobenzene  -p  (1,4-) 

Dichlorobenzene  -m  (1,3-) 

Dichlorobenzene  -o  (1,2-) 

Dichloroacetonitrile 

Chemical 

ORGANICS 

78875 

120832 

75092 

156605 

156592 

75354 

107062 

75343 

75718 

106467 

541731 

95501 

3018120 

CAS# 

w 

K> 

X' 

O 

to 

N) 

O 

a 

n 

w 

N> 

n 

X 

o 

n 

O 

a 

n 

Cancer 

Group 

Cancer  Risk 

1 

l 

500 

I 

i 

i 

O 

1 

• 

i 

l 

i 

• 

m4 

Cancer 

Risk 

(ug/L) 

1 

100 

2,000 

009 

400 

400 

!  1 

U) 

L/1 

8 

K 

5,000 

4,000 

3,000 

3,000 

300 

qq  ^ 

L,  r 

Standards  and  Health  Advisories 

1 

u> 

o 

l 

2,000 

3,000 

1,000 

700 

1 

9,000 

10,000 

9,000 

9,000 

800 

Longer- 
term  HA 
Child 
(ug/L) 

5/0 

I 

5/0 

100/100 

70/70 

5/0 

1 

i 

75/75 

009/009 

009/009 

l 

c  Sc 

i 

I 

l 

009 

400 

-4 

o 

a 

o 

1  | 

I 

750 

• 

3,000 

l 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

8 

u> 

O 

500 

009 

400 

o 

O 

1 

5,000 

750 

3,000 

3,000 

300 

Superfund 

Removal 

Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

<1 

<1 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


Dioxane  p-  (1,4-) 

Dinoseb 

Dinitrotoluene,  tgJ(2,6-&2,4-) 

Dinitrotoluene  (2,6-) 

Dinitrotoluene  (2,4-) 

Dinitrobenzene  (1,3-) 

DIMP  (Diisopropyl  methyl  phosphonate) 

Dimethyl  phthalate 

Dimethyl  methylphosphonate 

Dimethrin 

Diethylhexyl  phthalate 

Diethylhexyl  (see  Adipates) 

Diethyl  phthalate 

Dieldrin 

Dichloropropene(l,3-)(cis  and  trans) 

ORGANICS 

O 

CD 

3 
•— « » 

o 

EL 

123911 

00 

oo 

oo 

LA 

I 

25321146 

121142 

99650 

1445756 

131113 

756796 

70382 

117817 

84662 

60571 

542756 

n 

> 

on 

B2 

o 

B2 

i 

i 

a 

o 

a 

n 

U 

B2 

O 

B2 

B2 

Cancer 

Group 

Cancer  Risk 

700 

1 

LA 

• 

i 

i 

i 

i 

700 

l 

300 

I  i 

0.2 

20 

W4 

Cancer 

Risk 

(ug/L) 

I 

s 

i 

$ 

100 

LA 

3,000 

• 

7,000 

10,000 

700 

30,000 

K> 

*— * 

o 

DWEL 

(ug/L) 

Standards  and  Health  Advisories 

1 

© 

i 

400 

300 

£ 

8,000 

i  | 

2,000 

10,000 

I 

i  * 

© 

LA 

o 

30 

Longer- 
term  HA 
Child 
(ug/L) 

• 

7/7 

i 

• 

I  1 

1 

• 

■ 

1 

1 

6/0 

i 

1 

i 

o 

MCL/ 

MCLG 

(ug/L) 

• 

1 

i 

• 

i 

1 

• 

i 

l 

1 

I 

i 

I 

1 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

700 

h— * 

o 

LA 

LA 

LA 

3,000 

i  ! 

2,000 

10,000 

300 

30,000 

0.2 

© 

Superfund 

Removal 

Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

<1 

00 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


Ethylene  dichloride  (see  1,2- 

Dichloroethane) 

Ethylene  dibromide  (1,2-)(EDB) 

Ethylbenzene 

Epichlorohydrin 

Endrin 

Endothall 

Diuron 

Dithiane  (1,4-) 

Disulfoton 

Diquat 

Diphenylamine 

Diphenamid 

Dioxin  (see  2,3,7,8-TCDD) 

Chemical 

ORGANICS 

106934 

100414 

106898 

72208 

145733 

330541 

505293 

298044 

85007 

122394 

957517 

o 

> 

Sfc 

w 

LJ 

O 

to 

O 

O 

o 

O 

m 

O 

U 

O 

Cancer 

Group 

Cancer  Risk 

0.04 

i 

400 

l 

I 

i 

l 

i 

l 

• 

l 

10*4 

Cancer 

Risk 

(ug/L) 

i 

3,000 

■o 

o 

t— * 

o 

700 

-j 

o 

400 

- 

oo 

o 

1,000 

1,000 

DWEL 

(ug/L) 

Standards  and  Health  Advisories 

i 

1,000 

-o 

o 

to 

200 

300 

400 

1 

300 

S 

Longer- 
term  HA 
Child 
(ug/L) 

0.05/0 

700/700 

treat/0 

2/2 

100/100 

I 

1 

• 

20/20 

i 

i 

MCL/ 

MCLG 

■  ■  . 

(ug/L) 

0.05 

1,000 

o 

l 

• 

i 

1 

1 

• 

I 

• 

' 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

o 

b 

L/1 

1,000 

-j 

o 

u> 

200 

o 

400 

00 

o 

300 

300 

Superfund 

Removal 

Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

<1 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


Glyphosate 

Freon-1 13  (1,1 ,2-Trichloro-l  ,2,2,- 

trifluoroethane) 

Freon- 12  (see  Dichlorodifluoromethane) 

Freon- 11  (see  Fluorotrichloromethane) 

Formaldehyde 

Fonofos 

Fluorotrichloromethane  (Freon-11) 

Fluorene 

Fluometuron 

Fenamiphos 

Ethylene  thiourea  (ETU) 

Ethyl  ether 

Ethylene  glycol 

Chemical 

ORGANICS 

1071836 

76131 

50000 

944229 

75694 

86737 

2164172 

22224926 

96457 

60297 

107211 

n 

>  : 

CO 

m 

I 

D 

o 

a 

a 

U 

B2 

- 

O 

Cancer 

Group 

Cancer  Risk 

■ 

i 

• 

I 

i 

i 

i 

l 

30 

• 

I  ( 

||1 

Cancer 

Risk 

(ug/L) 

4.000 

l,100,000a 

5,000 

70 

10,000 

1,400 

400 

vO 

u> 

c 

40,000 

DWEL 

(ug/L) 

Standards  and  Health  Advisories 

1.000 

1 

5,000 

20 

3,000 

l 

2,000 

L/\ 

100 

' 

6,000 

Longer- 
term  HA 
Child 
(ug/L) 

700/700 

1 

I 

I 

1 

i 

i 

i 

I 

1 

■ 

M  CL/ 
MCLG 

(ug/L) 

• 

1 

i 

I 

1 

• 

i 

• 

i 

1 

l 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

* 

1,100,000 

5,000 

20 

3,000 

1,400 

400 

LA 

u> 

7,000 

6,000 

Removal 

Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

Superfund 

00 

o 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


00 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


Pentachlorophenol 

Pentachloronitrobenzene  (PCNB) 

Paraquat 

Oxyamyl 

Octachlorocamphene  (see  Toxaphene) 

N itrophenols  p- 

Nitroguanidine 

Naphthalene 

Monochlorobenzene  (Chlorobenzene) 

Monochloroacetic  acid  (Chloroacetic  acid) 

Metribuzin 

Metolachlor 

Methylene  chloride  (see  Dichloromethane) 

Methylene  bromide  (see  Dibromomethane) 

Methyl  tert  butyl  ether 

Chemical 

ORGANICS 

87865 

82688 

1910425 

23135220 

25154556 

556887 

91203 

108907 

79118 

21087649 

51218452 

1634044 

o 

> 

GO 

CO 

tG 

n 

09 

m 

tfl 

O 

a 

O 

o 

i 

U 

n 

o 

Cancer 

Group 

Cancer  Risk 

GJ 

o 

1 

■ 

1 

I 

i 

• 

i 

i 

i 

i 

• 

io-4 

Cancer 

Risk 

(ug/L) 

1.000 

8 

o: 

200 

900 

8 

4,000 

100 

700 

o 

V 

006 

3,500 

8 

cT  5 

qq  ^ 

f-|  w 

t? 

Standards  and  Health  Advisories 

300 

• 

G/l 

o 

8 

800 

10,000 

400 

2,000 

1 

8 

1,000 

500 

Longer- 
term  HA 
Child 
(ug/L) 

© 

1 

• 

200/200 

i 

■ 

I 

100/100 

1 

i 

i 

• 

<5.  Qo 

C  SC 

GJ 

o 

1 

• 

i 

i 

1 

l 

700 

1 

■ 

• 

I 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

GJ 

o 

to 

o 

C/l 

o 

200 

300 

4,000 

100 

700 

'-J 

o 

300 

2,000 

1,000 

Superfund 

Removal 

Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

00 

u> 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


Simazine 

RDX  (Hexahydro-l,3,5-trinitro-  1,3,5- 

triazine) 

Pyrene 

Propham 

Propazine 

Propachlor 

Pronamide  (Kerb) 

Prometon 

Polychlorinated  biphenyls  (PCBs) 

Picloram 

Phenol 

Perchloroethylene  (see  Tetrachloroethylene) 

Chemical 

ORGANICS 

122349 

121824 

129000 

122429 

139402 

1918167 

23950585 

1610180 

1336363 

1918021 

108952 

CAS# 

n 

O 

U 

O 

n 

D 

n 

o 

CO 

to 

a 

o 

Cancer 

Group 

Cancer  Risk 

i 

u> 

o 

i 

l 

i 

1 

i 

1  ; 

© 

L* 

i 

i 

'P' 

CD 

w  H 

200 

100 

1,100 

009 

700 

500 

000‘£ 

500 

i 

2,000 

20,000 

DWEL 

(ug/L) 

Standards  and  Health  Advisories 

o 

8 

1 

5,000 

500 

100 

800 

200 

i 

700 

6,000 

Longer- 
term  HA 
Child 
(ug/L) 

4/4 

i 

■ 

■ 

l 

■ 

I 

i 

o 

o 

500/500 

• 

MCL/ 

MCLG 

(ug/L) 

l  | 

i 

1 

I 

I 

i 

i 

I 

0.5 

I 

l 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

£ 

100 

oon 

009 

500 

100 

800 

200 

0.5 

700 

6,000 

Removal 

Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

Superfund 

CD 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


Toxaphene  (Octachlorocamphene) 

Toluene 

Tetrachloroethylene  (Perchloro-ethylene) 

Tetrachloroethane  (1,1, 2,2-) 

Tetrachloroethane  (1,1, 1,2-) 

Terbufos 

Terbacil 

Temik  (see  Aldicarb) 

Tebuthiuron 

TCDD  (2, 3, 7, 8-)  (v)  (Dioxin) 

Tackle  (see  Acifluorfen) 

H 

UJ 

V 

Ln 

1 

Styrene 

Chemical 

ORGANICS 

8001352 

108883 

127184 

79345 

630206 

13071799 

5902512 

34014181 

1746016 

93765 

100425 

CAS# 

B2 

a 

to 

to 

o 

ec 

n 

O 

m 

a 

B2 

i 

a 

n 

Cancer 

Group 

Cancer  Risk 

GJ 

■ 

70 

K> 

O 

tc 

100 

I 

i 

i 

0.00002 

i 

i 

io-4 

Cancer 

Risk 

(ug/L) 

7,000 

500 

1 

1,000 

C/» 

400 

2,000 

0.00004 

350 

7,000 

c'  5 

qq  ^ 

f-i  tfl 

r 

Standards  and  Health  Advisories 

1 

2,000 

1,000 

1 

006 

- 

300 

700 

0.00001 

s 

2,000 

Longer- 
term  HA 
Child 
(ug/L) 

3/0 

1,000/1,000 

5/0 

' 

I 

1 

- 

i 

0.00003/0 

1 

100/100 

MCL/ 

MCLG 

(ug/L) 

GJ 

I 

0  L 

1 

i 

1 

■ 

l 

I 

1 

1,000 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

GJ 

2,000 

70 

20 

900 

- 

S 

700 

0.00003 

350 

1,000 

Superfund 

Removal 

Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

00 

in 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


o 

E 

o 

>-1 

o 

a 

o 

a 

p 

3 

ft 


to 

CO 


S'  3 

a>  2. 
fB  o 

to  E 
>  2 
V*S 

H  S3* 

3  S 

x 

o; 

TJ 

■-1 

O 

*a 

o’ 

B. 

o 

p 

o 


to 

1o 

V 

lx 


o 

E 

o 

l“l 

o 

T3 

3* 

a 

3 

O 


to 


On 


o 

E 

o 

i-i 

o 

3 

CD 

Sr 

p 

3 

a 

CO 

ft 

Oi 

n 

E 

o 


o 

E 

o 

*™1 

o 

ft 

S 

rc 

3 

a 


o 

E 

o 

►n 

o 

n> 

5- 

ft 

3 

n> 


o 
3 ; 
o' 
o 

ft 

S 

p 

3 

ft 


to 

i 


o 

E 

o 

o 

ft 

Sr 

p 

3 

ft 


O 

E 

o 

►3 

O 

a* 

ft 


co 


CX 

i 


O 

E 

o 

►t 

o 

a* 

o 


to 


n 

E 

o 

o 

p 

o 

ft 


E 

o 

►t 

p 

o 

ft 

E 

a. 

o 


o  CO  — • 
O  O 
ft  g; 

O  o 

E  3 

o  % 

p3  ft 

s  £ 

t3*  *<  O. 

^  o.  S* 

n  3  ■< 

w  ^  ft 

5  g 

g*  E 

p  ° 
ft  g. 
CL  w 


fa  S3 

3*  J* 
3 

O  4l 

_x 

c<  CX 
T3  si, 

g 

o  to 

3.  V 

°  lx 

p  I 

2.  B. 

o.  o 

-  E 

o 


O 

?d 

O 

> 

z 

►— H 

n 

05 


n 

S' 


o 

E 


NO 

On 

00 

-P^ 


oo 

00 

o 

o> 

to 


On 


cx 

CX 

ON 


o 

00 

-o 

o 

CO 


to 

o 

00 

to 


co 

NO 


NO 

co 

~o 

to 


n 

> 

05 


03 

to 


CD 

to 


CD 

to 


n 


n 


a  o 

=3  g 

O  S3 
c  ° 
'o  q 


o 

p 

3 

O 

ft 

-l 

2S? 

CO 

p*r 


co 


CO 


_  n 

S3  p  ►— 

rl|  ^ 


C 

00 


to 


CO 


to 


CO 


c 

oo 


§ 

m 

r 


•o 

o 


q  S' 


/ - V 

c  n  ^  ^ 

W  ff  3  3 
2;  E  _  OQ 

£  a  S  2 
>7 


05 

£ 

a 

p 

3. 

CO 

p 

B. 

x 

m 

E 

S* 

> 

CL 

< 

co- 

O 

2. 

ft 

co 


cx 

O 


cx 

CO 


to 

8 

to 


~o 

© 

Ij 

o 


U) 


cx 

Q 

cx 

o 


c 

OQ 


a  n 

t7  M 

a  - 


co 


-o 

o 


c  r  ^  c 

oq  ft  H  S3 


to 


CO 


CO 

8 


CO 

o 


to 


o 


3 

OQ 


00 

cr> 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


h  Total  for  all  trihalomethanes  combined  cannot  exceed  80  ug/L 
c  Total  for  all  haloacetic  acids  cannot  exceed  60  ug/L 

J  Technical  Guide  (tg);  2,4-  and  2,6-DDinitrotoluene  are  unlikely  to  occur  alone 
e  Based  on  special  considerations 


Xylenes,  mixed 

Vydate  (see  Oxamyl) 

Vinyl  cloride 

Trinitrotoluene  (2,4,6-) 

T  rinitroglycerol 

Trifluralin 

1 , 1 ,2,Trichloro-l ,2,2-trifluoroethane  (see 
Freon  113) 

Chemical 

ORGANICS 

1330207 

75014 

118967 

55630 

1582098 

CAS# 

o 

> 

n 

i 

n 

Cancer 

Group 

Cancer  Risk 

'  1 

100 

i 

500 

io-4 

Cancer 

Risk 

(ug/L) 

60,000 

i 

20 

• 

300 

qo  ^ 

[-1  ffl 

L'  r 

Standards  and  Health  Advisories 

40,000 

►— * 

o 

20 

Ol 

80 

Longer- 
term  HA 
Child 
(ug/L) 

10,000/ 

10,000 

2/0 

I 

1 

i 

<3.  pn 

r  £  C 

40,000 

to 

i 

' 

• 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

40,000 

to 

20 

L/\ 

80 

Superfund 

Removal 

Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

00 

<1 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


Chlorine 

Chloramines  (measured  free  chlorine) 

Cadmium 

Bromate 

Boron 

Beryllium 

Barium 

Asbestos  Fibers  >  10  um 

Arsenic 

> 

3 

O 

3 

Ammonia 

Chemical 

INORGANICS 

7782505 

10599903 

7440439 

15541454 

7440428 

7440417 

7440393 

1332214 

7440382 

7440360 

7664417 

O 

> 

oo 

Sfc 

O 

O 

D 

• 

O 

B2 

o 

> 

> 

a 

D 

Cancer 

Group 

• 

i 

1 

I 

I 

© 

oo 

i  ‘ 

700 

MFL 

to 

i 

1 

HT* 

Cancer 

Risk 

(ug/L) 

3.500 

3,300 

20 

I 

3,0000 

200 

2,000 

1 

1 

o 

1 

DWEL 

(ug/L) 

Standards  and  Health  Advisoru 

• 

1,000 

Ui 

i 

006 

4,000 

I 

l 

1 

o 

1 

Longer- 
term  HA 
(Child) 
(ug/L) 

4.000/4.000 

4,000/4,000 

5/5 

10/0 

• 

4/4 

2,000/2,000 

7MFL/7MFL 

50/- 

6/6 

1 

MCL/MCLG 

(ug/L) 

i 

• 

I 

I 

I 

• 

70MFL 

I 

l 

1 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

V3 

4.000 

4,000 

o 

900 

2,000 

-o 

o 

2 

g 

r 

a* 

50 

h-* 

O 

34,000a 

(taste) 

Superfund 

Removal 

Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

00 

00 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


Manganese 

Lead  at  tap 

Hypochlorous  acid 

Hypochlorite 

Fluoride 

Cyanide 

Copper 

Chromium,  total 

Chromium  VI  (see  Chromium,  total) 

Chromium  III  (see  Chromium,  total) 

Chlorite 

Chlorine  dioxide 

Chemical 

INORGANICS 

7439965 

7439921 

7790923 

7681529 

16984488 

57125 

o 

o 

00 

i 

18540299 

16065831 

77558192 

10049044 

O 
> 
c n 

o 

B0 

03 

LJ 

i 

i 

i 

o 

a 

O 

O 

O 

Cancer 

Group 

1 

1 

i 

• 

• 

i 

i 

I 

l 

I 

10^ 

Cancer 

Risk 

(ug/L) 

200 

1 

i 

i 

4,200 

800 

• 

200 

100 

350 

DWEL 

(ug/L) 

Standards  and  Health  Advisories 

• 

• 

i 

I 

I 

200 

i 

200 

1 

I 

Longer- 
term  HA 
(Child) 
(ug/L) 

l 

treat/0 

1/4,000 

4,000/4,000 

200/200 

treat/ 1,300 

100/100 

OO 

o 

800/300 

MCL/MCLG 

(ug/L) 

i 

o 

o 

l 

l 

• 

1,300 

200 

t 

l 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

I 

u> 

o 

■ 

l 

5,000 

200 

1,300 

200 

1,000 

800 

Superfund 

Removal 

Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

00 

V£> 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


Thallium 

Sulfate 

Strontium 

Silver 

Selenium 

Nitrate  +  Nitrite 

Nitrite 

Nitrate 

Nickel 

Molybdenum 

Mercury 

Chemical 

INORGANICS 

7440280 

7757826 

7440246 

7440224 

7782492 

1 

14797650 

14797558 

7440020 

7439987 

7439976 

O 

> 

.  ..  oo  ■ 

i 

I 

a 

a 

l 

• 

I 

I 

a 

a 

D 

Cancer 

Group 

I 

• 

i 

i 

1 

I 

• 

I 

i 

• 

1 

10^ 

Cancer 

Risk 

(ug/L) 

N> 

1 

000 ‘06 

200 

200 

I 

5,600 

56,000 

009 

200 

© 

DWEL 

(ug/L) 

Standards  and  Health  Advisories 

-4 

I 

25,000 

200 

I 

• 

l 

t 

500 

© 

l 

Longer- 
term  HA 
(Child) 
(ug/L) 

2/0.5 

l 

• 

i 

50/50 

10,000/10,000 

1,000/1,000 

10,000/10,000 

100/100 

l 

2/2 

MCL/MCLG 

(ug/L) 

• 

l 

1 

i 

200 

10,000 

1,000 

10,000 

i 

1 

© 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

lj 

250,000 

aesthetics 

25,000 

p00I 

200 

10,000 

1,000 

10,000 

500 

o 

►— * 
o 

Removal 

Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

Superfund 

KQ 

O 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


O' 


c.  n 


C/3 

n> 

» 

to 

2 

00 

03 

o 

on 

T1 

C/J 

o 

CP 

CP 

3 

Q. 

CL 

CL 

V 

O 

ii 

o 

3 

on 

3 

3 

CL 

2 

V 

*T3 

CP 

o 

o’ 

03 

5? 

X 

E. 

3 

■-a 

•-I 

3 

c 

o 

o 

3) 

cr 

o 

3 

3 

3 

ft 
«— « 

n 

o 

3 

C/3 

~  • 

D- 

CP 

C/i 

o> 

>0 

C/3 

z 

05 

O 

3 

1 

o’ 

3 

on 

r^- 

m 

—i 

X 

m 

r-f- 

> 

o’ 

C/3 

3 

H 

r 

cd 

5’ 

< 

ft 

& 

CP 

5’ 

05 

cr 

cp 

on 

3 

CP 

Cl 

3 

n> 

o 

CL 

CP 

o 

o 

"-h 

*a 

05 

•-i 

o 

T5 

r~* 

3 

cd 

ct; 

o 

r“* 

on" 

OTQ 

3* 

O! 

CD 

3 

CL 

a 

■-i 

BL 

C 

i/3 

■a 

c 

m 

TO 

o’ 

> 

* 

o 

o 

3 

3 

£33 

o 

’-t 

CP 

era 

c 

o 

3. 

&3 

03 

CP 

>-» 

o 

o 

on 

< 

03_ 

3 

CP 

c 

CD 

O 

CD 

CD 

O 

w 

o 

< 

(T> 

•-! 

CD 

r-t- 

3 

CP 

Zinc  chloride  (measured  as  Zinc) 

Zinc 

White  phosphorus 

Vanadium 

Chemical 

INORGANICS 

i 

7440666 

772314 

7440622 

n 

> 

C/3 

=tt 

o 

D 

D 

O 

Cancer 

Group 

i 

• 

i 

• 

10" 

Cancer 

Risk 

(ug/L) 

10,000 

10,000 

© 

La 

N> 

L/\ 

O 

X 

DWEL 

(ug/L) 

Standards  and  Health  Advisories 

3,000 

3,000 

1 

1 

Longer- 
term  HA 
(Child) 
(ug/L) 

1 

I 

1 

1 

MCL/MCLG 

(ug/L) 

1 

l 

1 

1 

URTH 

-STAR- 

Level 

(ug/L) 

3,000 

3,000 

© 

La 

250 

Superfund 

•  Removal 
Action 

Level 

(ug/L) 

VO 


REMOVAL  NUMERIC  ACTION  LEVELS  FOR  CONTAMINATED  DRINKING  WATER  SITES 

(APRIL  1997) 


- 


APPENDIX  1 


Toxicology 


Exposure  to  hazardous  chemicals  may  produce  a  wide  range  of 
adverse  health  effects.  The  likelihood  of  an  adverse  health  effect 
occurring,  and  the  severity  of  the  effect,  are  dependent  on  the  toxicity 
of  the  chemical,  route  of  exposure,  and  the  nature  and  extent  of 
exposure  to  dose  from  that  substance.  In  order  to  better  understand 
potential  health  effects,  emergency  personnel  should  have  an 
understanding  of  the  basic  principles  and  terminology  of  toxicology. 

Toxicology  is  the  study  of  the  adverse  effects  of  chemicals  on 
living  organisms. 

Types  of  Toxic  Hazards 

1 .  Systemic  poisons  -  Systemic  poisons  are  chemical  agents  which 
act  on  specific  target  organs  or  organ  systems.  Systemic  poisons 
are  divided  into  the  following  categories: 

•  Anesthetics/narcotics  (e.g.  ethyl  ether). 

•  Compounds  damaging  liver  function  (e.g.  carbon 
tetrachloride  and  tetrachloroethane). 

•  Compounds  damaging  kidney  function  (e.g.  halogenated 
hydrocarbons  such  as  chloroform). 


A94 


TOXICOLOGY 


A94 


•  Compounds  damaging  the  nervous  system  (e.g.  ethanol, 
carbon  disulfide,  and  organophosphates). 

•  Compounds  damaging  blood/circulatory  system  (e.g. 
benzene  and  phenols). 

2.  Asphyxiants  -  Asphyxiants  are  agents  which  deprive  the  tissues 
of  oxygen.  This  group  is  divided  into  simple  or  chemical 
asphyxiants  and  both  simple  and  chemical  asphyxiants. 

•  The  simple  asphyxiants  act  by  diluting  or  displacing 
atmospheric  oxygen,  which  lowers  the  concentration  of 
oxygen  in  air.  Breathing  air  with  a  low  oxygen 
concentration  causes  insufficient  oxygen  in  the  blood  and 
tissues.  This  can  cause  headache,  loss  of  consciousness,  and 
eventually  death.  Examples  of  simple  asphyxiants  are 
aliphatic  hydrocarbons,  nitrogen,  hydrogen,  and  methane. 

•  Chemical  asphyxiants  act  in  one  of  two  ways: 

-  The  first  type  of  chemical  asphyxiant  prevents  the  uptake 
of  oxygen  in  the  blood.  For  example,  carbon  monoxide 
interferes  with  the  transport  of  oxygen  to  the  tissues  by 
strongly  binding  with  hemoglobin  to  form  carboxy 
hemoglobin  which  leaves  inadequate  hemoglobin 
available  for  oxygen  transport. 

-  The  second  type  of  chemical  asphyxiant  does  not  permit 
normal  oxygen  transfer  from  the  blood  to  the  tissues  or 
within  the  cell  itself.  Hydrogen  cyanide  is  an  example 
of  this  type. 

•  Some  compounds  can  act  as  both  simple  and  chemical 
asphyxiants.  Hydrogen  sulfide,  which  is  extremely  toxic,  is 
an  example. 

An  important  aspect  of  asphyxia  and  respiratory  toxicants  is 
the  effect  of  oxygen-deficient  atmospheres.  Normal  oxygen 


A95 


TOXICOLOGY 


A95 


oxygen  content  in  air  ranges  from  19.5  percent  to  23.5 
percent.  Some  atmospheres,  such  as  those  generated 
during  a  fire  or  hazardous  material  release,  contain  less 
oxygen.  For  this  reason,  it  is  imperative  that  the  oxygen 
content  of  any  atmosphere  be  determined  before  the 
selection  of  respiratory  protective  equipment.  Confined 
space  entries  represent  an  especially  hazardous  exposure 
situation.  Particular  attention  should  be  paid  to  the 
presence  of  combustible  or  explosive  atmospheres,  as 
volatile  organic  vapors  can  collect  rapidly  within  a 
confined  space.  Attention  should  also  be  paid  to  low-lying 
areas,  where  vapors  heavier  than  air  can  collect. 

EFFECTS  OF  OXYGEN  CONCENTRATION  ON  HUMANS 


PERCENT 

OXYGEN 

EFFECTS 

>23.5 

Explosive  atmosphere,  keep  out! 

21-16 

Nothing  abnormal 

16-12 

Loss  of  peripheral  vision 

Rapid  breathing  and  heart  rate 

Impaired  coordination 

12-10 

Poor  judgement  and  coordination 
Excessive  fatigue 

Permanent  heart  damage 

Sparse  breathing 

10-6 

Nausea 

Loss  of  movement 

Unconsciousness  followed  by  death 

Less  than  6 

Spasmodic  breathing 

Convulsive  movements 

Death 

A96 


TOXICOLOGY 


A96 


3.  Irritants  -  Irritants  are  materials  that  cause  inflammation  of 
tissues.  The  mechanism  of  irritation  is  by  either  corrosive  or 
drying  action  and  may  affect  the  eyes,  skin,  respiratory  membranes 
or  gastrointestinal  tract.  The  irritant  must  come  in  direct  contact 
with  tissue  to  cause  an  inflammation  reaction.  Consequently,  skin, 
eye,  and  respiratory  irritants  are  the  greatest  concern  for  response 
personnel. 

•  Examples  of  skin  irritants  are  acids,  alkalies,  solvents,  and 
detergents. 

•  Examples  of  respiratory  irritants  are  ozone,  ammonia,  hydrogen 
chloride,  and  nitrogen  dioxide. 

4.  Pneumoconiosis  -  Pneumoconiosis  is  the  reaction  of  the  tissues 
due  to  accumulation  of  dust  in  the  lungs.  Chronic  inhalation  of 
mineral  dust  such  as  silica  and  asbestos  can  result  in 
pneumoconiosis. 

5.  Allergic  sensitizers  -  Sensitizers  affect  the  immune  system  of 
the  exposed  person,  causing  a  delayed  hypersensitivity  to  the 
sensitizing  agent.  The  allergic  reaction  shows  one  or  more 
symptoms,  which  can  range  from  discomfort  from  poison  ivy  to  a 
fatal  reaction  from  isocyanates. 

•  Examples  of  skin  sensitizers  are  poison  ivy  and  formaldehyde. 

•  Examples  of  respiratory  sensitizers  are  sulfur  dioxide  and 
isocyanate. 

6.  Mutagens  -  A  mutagen  is  any  substance  that  affects  genetic 
material  in  the  lab  or  in  a  live  animal.  Thousands  of  mutagens 
have  been  identified  through  the  use  of  tests  like  the  Ames 
Salmonella  Assay.  Mutagenesis  is  not  a  symptom  or  a  disease,  but 
a  mechanism  by  which  diseases  may  develop. 

•  Examples  of  mutagens  are  ionizing  radiation,  benzene  and 
hydrogen  peroxide. 


A97 


TOXICOLOGY 


A97 


7 .  Carcinogens  -  Carcinogens  cause  cancer  in  lab  animals  or  in 
humans. 

•  Examples  of  carcinogens  are  poly  bis-chloromethyl  ether, 
polynuclear  aromatics,  and  13-napthtylamine. 

8.  Teratogens  -  Teratogens  cause  damage  to  the  unborn  children 
of  the  exposed  person  by  a  number  of  mechanisms.  Maternal 
alcohol  abuse  throughout  pregnancy  is  the  most  important  single 
cause  of  drug-induced  teratogenesis.  Another  example  of  a 
teratogen  is  thalidomide. 

9.  Biological  agents  -  Categories  of  biological  agents  include: 

•  viruses,  such  as  HIV  (which  causes  AIDS) 

•  bacteria,  such  as  Streptococcus 

•  fungi,  such  as  yeasts  and  ringworm 

•  parasites,  such  as  Entamoeba  histolytica 

•  rickettsia,  such  as  Rickettsia  rickettsi 

Routes  of  Exposure 

The  route  by  which  personnel  are  exposed  to  a  compound  plays  a 
role  in  determining  the  total  amount  of  the  compound  taken  up  by  the 
body  because  a  compound  may  be  absorbed  following  exposure  by  one 
route  more  readily  than  by  another.  In  addition  to  the  route  of 
exposure,  the  amount  of  the  compound  absorbed  by  the  body  depends 
on  the  duration  of  exposure  to  the  compound  and  the  concentration  of 
the  compound  to  which  one  is  exposed.  Therefore,  a  complex 
relationship  exists  between  the  total  amount  of  the  compound  absorbed 
by  the  body  (dose)  and  the  concentration  of  that  compound  in  the 
environment.  This  relationship  is  important  for  emergency  response 
personnel  to  understand  because  the  adverse  effects  produced  by  a  toxic 
compound  are  often  related  to  the  dose  of  that  compound  received  by 
the  person.  However,  because  we  usually  only  monitor  the 
concentration  of  the  toxic  substance  in  the  environment  (e.g.,  parts  per 
million  (ppm)  of  a  compound  in  air),  the  actual  dose  of  the  compound 
received  by  the  person  is  seldom  known.  Factors  specific  to  the 


A98 


TOXICOLOGY 


A98 


exposed  person,  such  as  size  of  the  skin  surface  area  exposed,  presence 
of  an  open  wound  or  breaks  in  the  skin,  and  rate  and  depth  of 
respiration,  are  important  in  estimating  the  dose  of  the  compound 
received  by  the  person. 

There  are  only  four  pathways  for  substances  to  enter  the  body: 

•  contact  with  skin,  eye,  and  hair 

•  inhalation 

•  ingestion 

•  injection 

Inhalation 

Inhalation  of  toxic  agents  generally  results  in  a  rapid  and  effective 
absorption  of  the  compounds  into  the  blood  stream  because  of  the  large 
surface  area  of  the  lung  tissue  and  number  of  blood  vessels  in  the 
lungs. 

The  toxic  effects  of  particulates  depend  on  the  physical  and 
chemical  properties  of  the  particles  in  question  and  on  the  particle  size. 
Larger  particles  settle  in  the  upper  portions  of  the  system  to  be 
removed  by  ciliary  action.  The  smaller  the  particle,  however,  the 
greater  ability  it  has  to  travel  deep  into  the  small  spaces  of  the  lung, 
thus  potentially  causing  greater  harm.  Once  small  particles  are 
deposited  in  the  lower  portions  of  the  lungs,  their  fate  includes: 

•  Absorption  into  the  bloodstream  (particles  of  greater  than  5.0 
micrometers  do  not  normally  diffuse  through  cell  walls). 

•  Removal  through  phagocytosis,  a  process  in  which  immune  cells 
attempt  to  remove  the  particles  by  incorporating  them  into  their  cell 
structure. 

•  Cell  toxicity  resulting  in  fibrotic  (scar-like)  tissue  formation  and 
decreased  gas  exchange  area. 

Certain  types  of  particulates,  such  as  asbestos  and  silica,  can  not  be 
effectively  eliminated  by  the  body.  Incomplete  removal  results  in 


A99 


TOXICOLOGY 


A99 


irritation  and  death  of  the  cell,  causing  further  immune  response. 
Irritation  may  be  severe  enough  to  cause  fibrosis  of  portions  of  the  lung 
or  a  cancerous  growth. 

Absorption 

Absorption  of  toxic  agents  as  a  route  of  exposure  refers  to  the 
passage  of  toxicants  through  either  the  skin,  eyes,  or  other  openings  in 
the  body.  Absorption  is  the  second  most  common  route  of  exposure  to 
hazardous  materials,  and  frequently  occurs  through  direct  contact 
between  the  chemical  and  the  skin  of  the  exposed  person. 

The  skin  serves  as  a  barrier  to  prevent  most  foreign  substances 
from  entering  the  body.  It  also  functions  to  preserve  the  components 
of  the  body.  The  skin  has  three  layers:  1)  the  epidermis,  the 
outermost  layer,  is  composed  of  mostly  dead  cells  that  adhere  to  the 
living  tissue  underneath  and  is  responsible  for  the  skin’s  effectiveness 
as  a  barrier;  2)  the  dermis,  a  layer  of  loose  connective  tissue,  contains 
the  blood  vessels  closest  to  the  skin  surface  and  is  actively  involved  in 
wound  repair;  and  3)  the  hypodermis,  the  innermost  layer,  contains 
connective  and  adipose  (fat)  tissue. 

The  absorption  of  chemicals  through  the  skin  is  called  percutaneous 
absorption.  It  depends  upon: 

•  The  integrity  of  the  skin. 

•  The  vehicle  through  which  the  toxicant  is  administered. 

•  The  type  of  toxicant. 

Factors  that  facilitate  percutaneous  absorption  include: 

•  Reduced  integrity  of  the  outer  skin  layer. 

•  Increased  hydration  of  the  skin. 

•  Increased  temperature  of  the  skin. 

•  Altered  skin  pH. 

•  Increased  blood  flow  to  the  skin. 

•  Increased  concentration  of  the  toxicant. 

•  Decreased  particle  size  of  the  toxicant. 

•  Electrically  induced  movement  of  the  toxicant. 

•  The  addition  of  agents  that  react  with  the  skin  surface. 


A100 


TOXICOLOGY 


A100 


Skin  contact  does  not  typically  result  in  as  rapid  of  a  systemic 
dosage  as  inhalation,  although  some  chemicals  are  readily  absorbed 
through  the  skin.  Many  organic  compounds  are  lipid  (fat)  soluble  and 
can  therefore  be  rapidly  absorbed  through  the  skin. 

The  same  chemicals  that  can  damage  the  skin  can  damage  the  eye. 
The  eyes  are  actually  more  sensitive  to  exposure  than  the  skin  due  to 
their  high  fluid  content  and  lack  of  a  barrier.  The  primary  concerns 
with  exposure  to  ocular  toxicants  are: 

•  Local  effects  -  direct  effects  caused  by  the  application  of  a  chemical 
to  the  cornea. 

•  Systemic  effects  -  effects  to  other  organs  or  organ  systems  in  the 
body,  caused  by  the  application  of  a  chemical  to  the  eye. 

•  Ocular  side  effects  -  effects  which  occur  in  the  eye  from  exposure 
to  toxicants  through  other  routes  of  exposure  such  as  inhalation  and 
ingestion. 

The  types  of  chemicals  noted  for  their  ocular  toxicity  are  acids, 
bases,  organic  solvents,  detergents,  and  lacrimators.  Acids  affect  the 
eye  by  reacting  with  protein  in  the  tissues  and  by  dehydrating  the 
tissues.  Treatment  involves  flushing  the  eye  with  large  amounts  of 
water.  Generally,  the  greater  the  concentration  of  the  acid,  the  greater 
ability  it  has  to  induce  harm. 

Alkaline  substances  (bases)  act  on  the  eye  in  a  very  different 
manner  than  acidic  ones.  Bases  produce  the  same  initial  effects  as 
acids,  due  to  the  pH  of  the  base  and  the  heat  produced  during  reaction. 
However,  contrary  to  acid  bums,  the  effects  observed  immediately  after 
exposure  to  an  alkaline  substance  are  not  a  good  indication  of  the  total 
effects  of  exposure  because  latent  effects  may  continue  to  occur  up  to 
two  weeks  after  exposure.  An  example  of  the  impact  of  an  alkaline 
substance  on  the  eye  is  exposure  to  sodium  hydroxide  (NaOH); 
irrigation  of  the  eye  with  a  concentrated  solution  of  NaOH  for  more 
than  three  minutes  could  cause  catastrophic  changes  in  the  cornea 
leading  to  complete  opacification  (clouding)  within  a  week  to  ten  days 
after  exposure.  Other  alkaline  substances  that  are  potent  ocular 
toxicants  include  potassium  hydroxide  and  ammonia. 


A101 


TOXICOLOGY 


A101 


Organic  solvents  react  with  the  proteins  and  fats  in  the  eye,  causing 
severe  pain.  Damage  is  usually  not  extensive  and  can  be  reversed.  In 
the  case  of  heated  solvents,  there  is  the  threat  of  burning,  resulting  in 
damage  that  is  often  severe  and  unpredictable.  Examples  of  organic 
solvents  include  ethanol,  toluene,  and  acetone. 

Detergents  react  to  lower  the  surface  tension  of  the  liquids  in  the 
eye,  causing  pronounced  irritation  followed  by  extensive  tearing. 
Concentrated  doses  can  cause  severe  bums  with  permanent  fogging  of 
the  cornea.  Examples  of  detergents  include  household  cleaning  agents, 
emulsifying  agents,  wetting  agents,  and  antifoaming  agents. 

Lacrimators  are  chemical  compounds  or  mixtures  which  have  the 
ability  to  induce  instant  tearing  at  very  low  concentrations  without 
reacting  with  the  tissues  of  the  eye.  High  concentrations  can  cause 
tissue  damage.  Examples  include  mace  (tear  gas)  and  smog. 

Ingestion 

The  ingestion  of  hazardous  substances  is  the  third  most  frequent 
route  of  exposure  in  humans.  Ingestion  of  hazardous  substances  occurs 
through  the  consumption  of: 

•  Contaminated  waters. 

•  Fish  from  contaminated  waters. 

•  Contaminated  plants  and  animals. 

•  Incidental  ingestion  of  soils  and  dusts. 

Exposure  to  toxicants  through  ingestion  is  of  most  concern  with 
young  children  who  can  ingest  large  amounts  of  soil  every  day  in  the 
course  of  normal  play  activities.  Young  children  are  also  particularly 
susceptible  to  the  adverse  effects  of  some  contaminants  (lead,  for 
example)  that  may  be  ingested. 

Once  a  toxicant  is  ingested,  it  enters  the  gastrointestinal  (GI)  tract. 
The  GI  tract  is  essentially  a  long  tube  beginning  at  the  lips  and  ending 
at  the  anus,  and  includes  the  mouth,  esophagus,  stomach,  and  small  and 
large  intestine.  Throughout  the  course  of  the  GI  tract,  ingested 
toxicants  can  be  absorbed  into  the  bloodstream.  Absorption  primarily 
occurs  in  three  main  areas  of  the  GI  tract:  the  stomach,  the  small 
intestine,  and  the  large  intestine. 


A102 


TOXICOLOGY 


A102 


The  human  liver  has  sophisticated  mechanisms  for  the  detoxification 
of  foreign  substances.  These  mechanisms  include  enzymatic  reactions 
and  excretion  to  the  bile  and  urine.  Liver  functions  can,  however, 
convert  a  substance  into  an  even  more  toxic  form.  In  addition, 
detoxification  mechanisms  are  easily  overridden,  particularly  in  cases 
of  exposure  to  multiple  agents  or  to  large  doses  of  a  single  agent. 

Exposure  to  toxic  chemicals  through  the  GI  tract  can  result  in  both 
local  and  systemic  effects.  Local  effects  include  the  reaction  of  the 
chemical  with  the  exposed  internal  surface  of  the  GI  tract,  as  in  the 
case  of  bums  from  acid  ingestion.  Systemic  effects  result  from 
absorption  of  the  chemical  into  the  bloodstream  and  transport  to  critical 
organs. 

Ingestion  is  a  less  common  route  of  exposure  for  emergency 
personnel  at  hazardous  material  incidents,  although  incidental  hand  to 
mouth  contact,  smoking  and  swallowing  saliva  and  mucus  containing 
trapped  airborne  contaminants  can  cause  exposure  by  this  route.  Even 
so,  toxicity  by  mouth  is  of  a  lower  order  because  the  gastrointestinal 
lining  resists  the  transport  of  most  toxic  agents. 

Injection 

Injection  refers  to  the  combination  of  toxic  exposure  with  a  physical 
trauma,  such  as  a  laceration.  This  route  of  exposure,  although  less 
common  than  the  others,  should  be  considered  very  dangerous,  since 
the  toxicant  is  being  directly  injected  into  the  bloodstream  of  the 
exposed  person.  Proper  site  safety  practices  (e.g.,  the  buddy  system) 
can  be  effective  in  preventing  injection  exposures. 

Some  significant  exposures  have  occurred  by  injection.  Animal 
bites  fall  into  this  category. 

Biological  Variation 

Biological  variation  is  the  term  used  for  the  occurrence  of  differing 
susceptibilities  in  a  population  exposed  to  a  toxic  chemical.  Factors 
that  contribute  to  biological  variation  include  sex,  age,  nutritional 
status,  weight,  metabolic  type,  and  state  of  health.  Biological  variation 
is  accounted  for  in  all  models  of  toxicological  testing. 


A103 


TOXICOLOGY 


A103 


Dose-Response  Relationship 

The  effect  produced  by  a  toxic  compound  is  a  function  of  the  dose 
of  the  compound  received  by  the  organism.  This  principle,  termed  the 
dose-response  relationship,  is  a  key  concept  in  toxicology.  Typically, 
as  the  dose  increases,  the  severity  of  the  toxic  response  increases. 

1.  The  carcinogens  -  Carcinogenesis  does  not  have  a  threshold. 
Thus,  there  can  never  be  a  zero  response  (or  risk);  even  the 
smallest  dose  will  result  in  some  finite  risk.  It  should  be  noted  that 
the  most  conservative  model  is  the  linear  (or  one-hit)  model.  This 
is  the  most  conservative,  because  the  model  predicts  a  given 
response  (or  risk)  at  the  lowest  allowable  level  of  exposure. 


A104 


TOXICOLOGY 


A104 


Results  of  alternative  extrapolation  models  for  the 
same  experimental  data.  NOTE:  Dose-response 
functions  were  developed  (Crump,  in  press)  for 
data  from  a  benzopyrene  carcinogenesis 
experiment  with  mice  conducted  by  Lee  and 
O’Neill  (1971). 

2.  Non-carcinogens  -  A  dose  response  curve  is  sought  from  the 
literature  for  the  most  sensitive  biological  system  in  an  experimental 
animal  model. 


A105 


TOXICOLOGY 


A105 


No  effect  level  (NEL):  NEL  is  the  dose  which  will  produce  no  effect 
in  the  most  sensitive  biological  system  for  which  data  can  be  found. 
To  add  an  additional  measure  of  safety  for  extrapolation  to  humans, 
this  NEL  is  further  divided  by  a  safety  factor  of  100  to  yield  an 
allowable  level  of  exposure  for  humans.  If  other  data,  either  animal  or 
human  epidemiologic,  suggest  a  lower  level  of  concern  for  the 
compound  under  review,  then  the  NEL  may  be  divided  by  10. 
Conversely,  if  other  data  suggests  a  higher  level  of  concern,  then  the 
NEL  may  be  divided  by  1,000.  This  approach  of  a  threshold  "no 
effect  level,"  coupled  with  the  use  of  a  safety  factor  ranging  from  10 
to  1,000  has  served  the  FDA,  the  food  industry  and  the  American 
public. 

Exposure  to  Chemical  Mixture 

Emergency  health  threat  determinations  involving  mixtures  are 
complex  and  difficult  to  make  because  little  is  known  about  the  toxic 
properties  of  a  mixture  of  compounds.  Chemicals  in  a  mixture  can 
interact  with  each  other  and  with  the  body  to  produce  any  one  of  the 
four  following  effects: 


A106 


TOXICOLOGY 


A106 


•  Additive  Effects  (e.g.,  2+3+4  =  9).  These  effects  are  produced 
when  the  combined  effect  of  the  chemicals  is  equal  to  the  sum  of 
the  individual  effects  of  all  the  chemicals  in  the  mixture.  Examples 
of  a  mixture  that  produces  additive  effects  are  organophosphate 
pesticides  such  as  parathion  and  malathion. 

•  Synergistic  Effects  (e.g.,  2+3+4=27).  Effects  that  are  greater 
than  the  sum  of  the  component  chemicals  in  the  mixture  are  said  to 
be  synergistic  effects.  An  example  of  a  synergistic  effect  is  the 
combined  effects  of  cigarette  smoke  and  asbestos;  smokers  show  a 
strikingly  higher  cancer  rate  from  asbestos  exposure  than  do 
nonsmokers. 

•  Potentiation  Effects  (e.g.,  0+2  =  10).  One  of  the  chemicals  in  a 
mixture  may  not  itself  be  particularly  toxic,  but  it  reacts  to  increase 
the  toxicity  of  another  chemical  in  the  mixture,  producing 
potentiation  effects.  An  example  of  a  potentiation  effect  is  the 
increased  toxicity  observed  with  carbon  tetrachloride  (CC14) 
exposure  accompanied  by  isopropanol.  Isopropanol  is  considered 
to  be  relatively  nontoxic  when  administered  by  itself.  However, 
when  administered  with  CC14,  it  excerbates  the  toxicity  of  CC14  by 
preventing  detoxification  mechanisms  in  the  liver  from  reacting 
with  CC14  molecules. 

•  Antagonistic  Effects  (e.g.,  4+ (-4)=  0).  A  mixture  in  which  one  or 
more  of  the  chemicals  present  inhibits  the  toxicity  of  other 
compounds  in  the  mixture  is  said  to  produce  antagonistic  effects. 
Antagonistic  actions  between  chemicals  serve  as  the  basis  for 
antidotal  therapy. 

NOTE:  Exposure  criteria  for  chemical  mixtures  do  not  exist  and 
other  information  can  be  very  difficult  to  gather.  In 
situations  involving  exposure  to  a  mixture  of  chemicals,  it 
is  advisable  to  assemble  a  team  of  experts,  including 
chemists  and  toxicologists,  to  characterize  the  situation 
completely. 


A107 


TOXICOLOGY 


A107 


Toxicity  Information 

Toxicity  information  is  often  expressed  as  the  dose  of  the  compound 
that  causes  an  effect  in  a  percentage  of  the  exposed  subjects,  which  are 
mostly  experimental  animals.  These  dose-response  terms  are  often 
found  in  Material  Safety  Data  Sheets  (MSDS)  and  other  sources  of 
health  information.  One  dose-response  term  that  is  commonly  used  is 
the  lethal  dose  50  (LD50),  the  dose  which  is  lethal  to  50  percent  of  an 
animal  population  from  exposure  by  any  route  other  than  inhalation 
when  given  all  in  one  dose.  Another  similar  term  is  the  lethal 
concentration  50  (LC50),  which  is  the  concentration  of  a  material  in  air 
that  on  the  basis  of  respiratory  exposure  in  laboratory  tests  is  expected 
to  kill  50  percent  of  a  group  of  test  animals  when  administered  as  a 
single  exposure  (usually  1  hour). 


ACUTE  LD^  VALUES  FOR 
REPRESENTATIVE  CHEMICALS 
WHEN  ADMINISTERED  ORALLY  TO 

RATS 

Chemical 

Acute  Oral  LD^ 
(mg/kg)* 

Sodium  cyanide 

6.4  -  10 

Pentachlorophenol 

50  -  230 

Chlordane 

83  -  560 

Lindane 

88  -  91 

Toluene 

2600  -  7000 

Tetrachloroethylene 

3000  -  3800 

*  Milligrams  of  the  compound  administered 
per  kilogram  body  weight  of  the 
experimental  animal. 

A108 


t 


TOXICOLOGY 


A108 


From  the  above  table  it  can  be  seen  that  a  dose  of  3000  to  3800 
mg/kg  tetrachloroethylene  is  lethal  to  50  percent  of  rats  that  received 
the  compound  orally;  however,  only  6.4  to  10  mg/kg  of  sodium 
cyanide  is  required  to  produce  the  same  effect.  Therefore,  compounds 
with  lower  LD50  values  are  more  acutely  toxic  than  substances  with 
higher  LD50  values. 

The  LD50  values  that  appear  in  an  MSDS  or  in  literature  must  be 
used  with  caution  by  emergency  medical  personnel.  These  values  are 
an  index  of  only  one  type  of  response  and  give  no  indication  of  the 
ability  of  the  compound  to  cause  non-lethal,  adverse  or  chronic  effects. 
Furthermore,  LD50  values  typically  come  from  experimental  animal 
studies. 


A109 


TOXICOLOGY 


A109 


FACTORS  INFLUENCING  TOXICITY 

TYPE 

EXAMPLES 

Factors  related  to  the 
chemical. 

Composition  (salt,  freebase, 
etc.);  physical  characteristics 
(size,  liquid,  solid,  etc.); 
physical  properties 
(volatility,  solubility,  etc.); 
presence  of  impurities; 
breakdown  products; 
carriers. 

Factors  related  to 
exposure. 

Dose;  concentration;  route  of 
exposure  (inhalation, 
ingestion,  etc.);  duration. 

Factors  related  to 
person  exposed. 

Heredity;  immunology; 
nutrition;  hormones;  age; 
sex;  health  status;  pre¬ 
existing  diseases. 

Factors  related  to 
environment. 

Media  (air,  water,  soil,  etc.); 
additional  chemicals  present; 
temperature;  air  pressure. 

Exposure  Limits 

The  concept  of  the  various  occupational  exposure  limits  which  are 
found  in  literature  or  in  an  MSDS,  are  based  primarily  on  time- 
weighted  average  limits,  ceiling  values  or  ceiling  concentration  limits 
to  which  the  worker  can  be  exposed  without  adverse  effects. 


A110 


TOXICOLOGY 


A110 


EXAMPLES  OF  OCCUPATIONAL  EXPOSURE  LIMITS 

Value 

Abbreviation 

Definition 

Threshold 
Limit  Value 

3  types 
(ACGIH)* 

TLV 

Refers  to  airborne 
concentrations  of  substances 
and  represents  conditions  under 
which  it  is  believed  that  nearly 
all  workers  may  be  repeatedly 
exposed  day  after  day  without 
adverse  effect. 

1) 

Threshold 
Limit  Value 
-  Time- 
Weighted 
Average 
(ACGIH)* 

TLV-TWA 

The  time-weighted  average 
concentration  for  a  normal  8- 
hour  workday  and  a  40-hour 
workweek,  to  which  nearly  all 
workers  may  be  repeatedly 
exposed,  day  after  day,  without 
adverse  effect. 

2) 

Threshold 
Limit  Value 
-  Short- 
Term 

Exposure 

Limit 

(ACGIH)* 

TLV-STEL 

The  concentration  to  which 
workers  can  be  exposed 
continuously  for  a  short  period 
of  time  without  suffering  from: 

1)  irritation,  2)  chronic  or 
irreversible  tissue  damage,  or 

3)  narcosis  of  sufficient  degree 
to  increase  the  likelihood  of 
accidental  injury,  impair  self¬ 
rescue,  or  materially  reduce 
work  efficiency,  and  provided 
that  the  daily  TLV-TWA  is  not 
exceeded. 

3) 

Threshold 
Limit  Value 
-  Ceiling 
(ACGIH)* 

TLV-C 

The  concentration  that  should 
not  be  exceeded  during  any 
part  of  the  working  exposure. 

Alll 


TOXICOLOGY 


Alll 


EXAMPLES  OF  OCCUPATIONAL  EXPOSURE  LIMITS 

Value 

Abbreviation 

Definition 

Permissible 

Exposure 

Limit 

(OSHA)** 

PEL 

Same  as  TLV-TWA. 

Immediately 
Dangerous 
to  Life  and 
Health 
(OSHA)** 

IDLH 

A  maximum  concentration  (in 
air)  from  which  one  could 
escape  within  30-minutes 
without  any  escape-impairing 
symptoms  or  any  irreversible 
health  effects. 

Recommend 
ed  Exposure 
Limit 

(NIOSH)*** 

REL 

Highest  allowable  airborne 
concentration  that  is  not 
expected  to  injure  a  worker; 
expressed  as  a  ceiling  limit  or 
time-weighted  average  for  an  8 
or  10  hour  work  day. 

*  American  Conference  of  Governmental  Industrial 

Hygienists 

**  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration 
***  National  Institute  for  Occupational  Safety  and  Health 

The  values  listed  in  the  above  table  were  established  to  provide 
worker  protection  in  occupational  settings.  Because  the  settings  in 
which  those  values  are  appropriate  are  quite  different  from  an 
uncontrolled  spill  site,  it  is  difficult  to  interpret  how  these  values  should 
be  used  by  emergency  personnel  dealing  with  a  hazardous  materials 
incident.  At  best,  TLV,  PEL,  IDLH,  and  REL  values  can  be  used  as 
benchmarks  for  determining  relative  toxicity,  and  perhaps  to  assist  in 
selecting  appropriate  levels  of  personal  protective  equipment  (PPE). 
Furthermore,  these  occupational  exposure  limits  are  only  useful  if  the 


A112 


TOXICOLOGY 


A112 


appropriate  instrumentation  is  available  for  measuring  the  levels  of 
toxic  chemicals  in  the  air  at  the  chemical  spill  site.  It  should  be  noted 
that  with  the  above  Occupational  Exposure  Limit  values,  only  the 
OSH  A  values  are  regulatory  limits.  The  ACGIH  values  are  for 
guidance  only  and  are  not  regulatory  limits. 

MCL 

MCL  (Maximum  Contaminant  Level).  MCLs  are  mandated  by  the 
Safe  Drinking  Water  Act  (SWDA)  of  1972  and  are  established  by  the 
National  Academy  of  Sciences  and  EPA  to  regulate  contaminants  in 
public  drinking  water  supplies.  MCL  values  are  changed  regularly  to 
reflect  improvements  in  treatment  technologies. 

Frequently,  one  chemical  will  have  several  exposure  values 
associated  with  it.  The  field  investigator  should  evaluate  these  numbers 
on  the  basis  of  the  tasks  to  be  performed  on  site  and  the  personal 
protection  equipment  to  be  used  to  ensure  exposure  limits  are  not 
exceeded.  Within  this  context,  the  most  conservative  exposure  value 
(i.e.,  the  lowest  value)  should  be  chosen  to  provide  for  the  greatest  site 
security. 

Practical  Considerations 

The  answers  to  the  following  questions  will  dictate  how  response 
personnel  are  protected  (type  of  respiratory  and  protective  gear 
employed): 

•  What  toxic  agent  is  present? 

•  How  much  of  the  agent  is  present? 

•  How  will  it  enter  the  body? 

•  How  will  it  affect  the  body? 


APPENDIX  2 


Environmental  Media 


Air,  soil,  and  water  are  the  environmental  media  through  which 
exposure  to  toxic  substances  occurs.  Awareness  of  the  properties  of 
each  medium  aids  in  evaluating  routes  of  exposure  and  in  determining 
sample  locations.  In  making  these  determinations,  it  is  also  important 
to  consider  the  impact  the  prevailing  weather  conditions  in  an  area  have 
on  the  air,  soil,  and  water  on  site. 

Air 

Air  contaminants  may  pose  an  inhalation,  ingestion,  and  direct 
contact  threat  to  the  public  over  very  large  areas  downwind  of  the  site. 
Sudden,  unexpected  shifts  in  wind  direction  are  of  particular  concern 
because  they  can  cause  exposure  to  site  workers  and  the  public  in  areas 
previously  considered  to  be  safe.  Wind  direction  and  speed  are  the 
primary  factors  governing  transport  of  air  contaminants  --  both  gases 
and  particulates.  Winds  arise  from  horizontal  pressure  gradients  in  the 
atmosphere  and  can  change  rapidly  in  direction  and  speed  in  the 
vicinity  of  fronts.  Some  locations,  such  as  mountainous  areas  and  areas 
along  large  lakes,  experience  diurnal  fluctuations  in  wind  direction 
caused  by  daily  temperature  changes.  These  daily  changes  also 
enhance  contaminant  dispersion. 


A 1 14 


ENVIRONMENTAL  MEDIA 


A114 


Air  releases  include  volatilization  from  contaminated  soils, 
covered  landfills  (with  and  without  internal  gas  generation),  spills  and 
leaks  from  containment  facilities,  and  lagoons.  Contaminant  releases 
into  the  atmosphere  may  also  consist  of  fugitive  dusts  resulting  from 
wind  erosion  of  contaminated  soils  and  from  traffic  over  contaminated, 
unpaved  roadways.  When  a  stable  suspension  of  dust  or  other  solid 
particles  or  of  liquid  droplets  in  air  occurs,  it  is  called  an  aerosol. 

Temperature  and  atmospheric  pressure  influence  the  rate  of  air 
releases.  With  increasing  temperature,  the  rate  of  volatilization  of 
compounds  tends  to  increase.  Volatiles  may  be  released  from  liquids 
even  on  cold  days  because  solar  radiation  can  increase  the  temperature 
of  a  liquid  more  rapidly  than  the  temperature  of  air.  Temperature  also 
governs  atmospheric  stability,  which  is  the  degree  to  which  the 
atmosphere  dampens  vertical  motion.  In  an  unstable  atmosphere,  the 
temperature  decreases  rapidly  with  increasing  elevation,  resulting  in 
turbulence  (wind).  In  a  stable  atmosphere,  the  temperature  may  remain 
constant  throughout  the  column  of  air  or,  in  the  case  of  an  inversion, 
even  increase  with  elevation.  Stable  conditions  typically  occur  in  late 
afternoon  through  early  morning  under  clear  skies  with  light  winds. 
Atmospheric  pressure  tends  to  affect  the  migration  of  landfill  gases, 
causing  a  landfill  to  offgas  at  a  higher  rate  following  low  atmospheric 
pressures.  When  the  atmospheric  pressure  is  high,  the  landfill  may 
cease  offgassing  entirely. 

Humidity  is  not  a  factor  in  the  generation  and  transport  of  air 
contaminants.  It  can  influence  the  hazards  of  a  release,  however.  In 
the  case  of  a  release  of  hydrogen  chloride  gas,  for  example,  the  hazards 
posed  by  hydrochloric  acid  should  be  considered,  especially  on  an 
extremely  humid  day. 

DISPERSION  MECHANISMS 

The  relative  directional  frequencies  of  wind  over  a  site 
determine  the  primary  direction  of  movement  of  airborne  contaminants 
-  both  gases  and  particulates.  Wind  speed  and  direction  are  influenced 
not  only  by  meteorological  conditions,  but  also  by  the  topography  of  an 
area.  Even  tall  buildings  and  other  large  structures  can  influence  wind 
speed  and  direction  in  small,  localized  areas. 


A115 


ENVIRONMENTAL  MEDIA 


A115 


Atmospheric  stability  and  wind  speeds  determine  the  off-site  areas 
to  be  affected  by  ambient  concentrations  of  gases.  In  general,  high 
stability  and  low  wind  speeds  result  in  higher  atmospheric 
concentrations  of  contaminant  gases  close  to  the  site.  High  stability  and 
moderate  wind  speeds  result  in  moderate  concentrations  over  a  large 
area  downwind  of  the  site.  Low  stability  or  high  wind  speeds  cause 
greater  dispersion  and  dilution  of  contaminants,  resulting  in  lower 
concentrations  over  larger  areas. 

Wind  speed  is  a  critical  factor  in  generating  airborne  contaminated 
particulate  material.  At  higher  speeds,  the  turbulence  of  the  air  and  its 
forward  motion  lifts  particles  into  the  windstream  for  transport.  Under 
windy  conditions,  transport  of  contaminated  particulates,  especially  of 
metals,  dioxin,  and  PCB  contamination,  can  pose  significant  health 
threats  downwind  of  the  site.  Transport  of  contaminated  particulates 
is  generally  not  a  concern  when  the  soil  is  wet  because  of  the  increased 
threshold  wind  speed  required  to  make  the  particles  airborne. 

Ambient  concentrations  of  particulate  contaminants  are  controlled 
by  particle  size  distribution  as  well  as  by  windspeed  and  stability. 
Large  particles  settle  out  rapidly,  resulting  in  decreased  atmospheric 
concentrations  with  distance  from  the  site.  Smaller  particles  remain 
airborne  longer  and  approximate  the  behavior  of  gaseous  contaminants. 


INTERMEDIA  TRANSFER  MECHANISMS 

Settleout  and  rainout  are  mechanisms  of  contaminant  transfer  from 
the  atmosphere  to  surface  soils  and  waters.  Contaminants  dissolved  in 
rainwater  may  percolate  to  groundwater,  run  off  or  fall  directly  into 
surface  waters,  and  adsorb  to  uncontaminated  soils.  Contaminants  can 
enter  the  food  chain  through  direct  intake  of  the  atmosphere  by  plants 
and  animals  and  through  intake  of  secondarily  contaminated  soils  and 
water. 


A116 


ENVIRONMENTAL  MEDIA 


A116 


Soils 


Soil  represents  a  medium  of  direct  contact  and  ingestion  threats 
and  may  be  the  main  source  of  contaminants  released  into  other  media 
(air,  water).  Direct  soil  contamination  occurs  from  leaks  or  spills  from 
containers  and  containment  facilities.  The  spilled  liquids  and  solids 
may  be  transported  through  soil  or  may  be  partially  or  fully  retained 
within  the  soil  to  provide  a  continuous  environmental  and/or  public 
health  threat.  At  the  site  of  a  release  and  along  the  release  pathway, 
discolored  soils,  stressed  or  dead  vegetation,  and  uncharacteristic  odors 
may  be  preliminary  indicators  of  soil  contamination. 


DISPERSION  MECHANISMS 

To  predict  the  fate  and  transport  of  a  hazardous  substance 
released  onto  the  soil  surface,  the  properties  of  both  the  substance 
spilled  and  the  soil  must  be  considered.  The  mobility  of  a  material  in 
soil  is  influenced  by  many  factors,  such  as  soil  type,  temperature, 
porosity,  and  biological  and  chemical  activity,  along  with  the  water 
solubility,  vapor  pressure,  and  physical  state  of  the  substance  released. 
Liquid  movement  is  the  most  significant  dispersion  mechanism  in  soils. 
Liquid  contaminants  percolate  directly  into  soils,  and  contaminants  of 
lower  viscosity  and/or  higher  density  than  water  can  have  percolation 
rates  much  greater  than  that  of  water.  Dry,  soluble  contaminants 
dissolved  in  precipitation,  or  in  runon  or  irrigation  water  can  also 
migrate  through  percolation  into  the  soil  and  through  runoff.  The  rate 
of  movement  of  solid  contaminants  through  soil  is  a  function  of  net 
groundwater  recharge  rates  and  of  contaminant  solubility. 

Contaminants  with  high  soil  adsorption  coefficients  (e.g. ,  benzo- 
a-pyrene)  may  bind  (adsorb)  to  the  surface  of  soil  particles  through  ion 
exchange  and  become  relatively  immobile  under  certain  conditions. 
However,  adsorbed  contaminants  may  later  be  desorbed  by  percolating 
waters,  causing  the  contaminants  to  become  mobile  again.  Movement 
of  airborne  or  waterborne  soil  particles  with  hazardous  substances 
adsorbed  to  the  surface  also  contributes  to  spread  of  contamination. 

To  determine  in  detail  how  a  release  may  behave,  it  is  necessary 
to  establish  the  predominant  nature  of  the  soils  on  site.  It  is  also 


A117 


ENVIRONMENTAL  MEDIA 


A117 


important  to  establish  whether  such  underground  features  as  clay  layers, 
sink  holes,  and  fractures  are  present.  These  and  other  subsurface 
features  can  greatly  facilitate  or  retard  the  spread  of  contamination  and 
influence  the  direction  of  movement. 


INTERMEDIA  TRANSFER  MECHANISMS 

Releases  which  occur  on  soils  with  low  runoff  potential,  such  as 
well-drained  sandy  or  gravely  soils,  have  a  high  infiltration  rate.  Spills 
on  these  types  of  soils  will  migrate  off  site  rapidly  and  may  present  a 
threat  to  groundwater.  Loamy  and  clay  soils  with  a  moderate  to  high 
runoff  potential  provide  a  low  infiltration  rate  and  a  surface  conducive 
to  overland  flow.  Releases  occurring  on  these  types  of  soils  may  create 
a  hazard  at  some  distance  to  the  site  as  the  spilled  substance  travels 
overland  to  surface  waterways,  or  as  vapors  from  the  substance 
volatilize  into  the  atmosphere  or  collect  in  such  confined  spaces  as 
culverts  and  sewers.  Biouptake  by  plants  and  soil  organisms  is  another 
transfer  mechanism  of  soil  contaminants  and  one  which  introduces  the 
contaminants  to  the  food  chain. 


Water 

Water  contamination  poses  ingestion  and  direct  contact  threats. 
Water  also  transports  contaminants  through  soil  and  acts  as  a  vehicle 
for  intermedia  transfer  of  contaminants  to  air  and  soil.  Water  has  two 
important  characteristics,  its  strongly  dipolar  nature  and  the  ability  of 
water  molecules  to  form  hydrogen  bonds  with  the  oxygen  ends  of 
adjacent  water  molecules.  The  dipolar  nature  of  water  is  the  reason  for 
its  solvent  properties;  the  force  of  attraction  between  the  dipole  and 
ions  on  the  surface  of  a  contaminant  or  other  substance  can  cause  the 
contaminant  to  form  a  solution  with  water. 

The  ability  of  water  molecules  to  form  hydrogen  bonds  with  each 
other  accounts  for  the  high  dynamic  viscosity  and  high  surface  tension 
of  water,  as  well  as  its  melting  and  boiling  points.  Both  the  viscosity 
and  surface  tension  of  water  affect  transport  of  particulate  material  and 


A118 


ENVIRONMENTAL  MEDIA 


A118 


material  and  the  movement  of  groundwater.  Viscosity  and  surface 
tension  each  decrease  as  temperature  increases. 

The  properties  of  the  contaminant  are  important  to  consider 
when  assessing  the  threat  posed  by  water  contamination.  Such 
characteristics  as  solubility,  vapor  pressure,  specific  gravity,  and 
dispersability  affect  the  behavior  of  the  contaminant  in  water  and 
influence  cleanup  techniques. 


DISPERSION  MECHANISMS 

Direct  surface  water  contamination  occurs  from  releases  into  a 
body  of  water  or  from  contaminated  runoff.  Dispersion  of 
contaminants  through  surface  waterways  is  affected  by  currents  and 
eddies  in  rivers,  streams,  lakes,  and  estuaries,  and  also  by  thermal 
stratification,  tidal  pumping,  and  flushing.  Contaminant  concentrations 
in  rivers  or  streams  can  be  estimated  on  the  basis  of  rate  of 
contaminant  introduction  and  dilution  volumes.  Estimates  of 
contaminant  concentrations  in  estuaries  and  impoundments  are  more 
difficult  to  make  because  of  the  variety  of  transport  mechanisms  that 
may  be  involved,  causing  contaminants  to  remain  concentrated  in  local 
areas  or  to  disperse  rapidly. 

Direct  groundwater  contamination  can  occur  from  liquids  and 
solids  in  lined  or  unlined  landfills,  lined  or  unlined  lagoons, 
underground  storage  tanks,  injection  wells,  or  long-term  surface 
dumping.  Dispersion  of  contaminants  through  groundwater  is 
influenced  by  a  variety  of  factors  such  as  the  hydraulic  conductivity  of 
soils;  the  hydraulic  gradient;  the  presence  of  impermeable  subsurface 
barriers;  the  presence  of  discharge  areas  (e.g.,  streams  that  intercept 
ground  water  flow),  and  the  presence  of  fissures,  cavities,  or  large 
pores  in  the  bedrock. 


INTERMEDIA  TRANSFER  MECHANISMS 

An  important  intermedia  transfer  mechanism  in  surface  water  is 
contaminant  transfer  to  bed  sediments,  especially  in  cases  where 


A 1 1 9 


ENVIRONMENTAL  MEDIA 


A119 


contaminants  are  in  the  form  of  suspended  solids  or  are  dissolved, 
hydrophobic  substances  that  can  be  adsorbed  by  organic  matter  in  bed 
sediments.  Transfer  between  surface  water  and  bed  sediments  is 
reversible,  and  the  sediments  can  act  as  temporary  repositories  for 
contaminants,  gradually  releasing  contaminants  to  surface  water.  In 
addition,  adsorbed  or  settled  contaminants  can  be  transported  through 
migration  of  bed  sediments. 

Transfer  of  contamination  between  surface  water  and  groundwater 
occurs  in  areas  of  substantial  surface-groundwater  exchange,  such  as  in 
swamps  and  marshes.  Surface  water  contamination  enters  the  food 
chain  through  biouptake  by  plants  and  animals.  Transfer  to  the 
atmosphere  occurs  where  the  surface  water  is  contaminated  with 
volatile  substances.  Such  transfer  can  pose  a  threat  of  explosion  as 
vapors  collect  in  sewers  and  other  enclosed  spaces.  High  temperatures, 
high  surface  area-to-volume  ratios,  high  wind  conditions,  and  turbulent 
stream  flow  increase  volatilization  rates.  Volatiles  in  groundwater  can 
be  transferred  to  the  atmosphere  at  household  taps.  Inhalation  of 
volatiles  while  bathing  may  be  a  potentially  significant  route  of 
exposure  for  residents  whose  potable  water  is  contaminated  with 
volatile  organic  compounds. 


I 


APPENDIX  3 


Sampling  and  Basic 
Data  Interpretation 


Together,  sampling,  sample  analysis,  and  basic  interpretation  of 
analytical  results  form  the  most  effective  mechanism  for  obtaining 
definitive  information  to  characterize  site  conditions,  evaluate  the 
threats  to  human  health  and  the  environment,  support  compliance  and 
enforcement  activities,  justify  site  cleanup  activities,  and  determine 
cleanup  effectiveness. 

The  type  and  number  of  samples  collected,  the  manner  in  which  the 
samples  are  collected,  and  the  analyses  chosen  depend  on  what  the  EPA 
investigator  wants  to  ascertain.  The  sampling  plan  is  the  vehicle  for 
securing  a  set  of  quality-controlled  samples  that  reflect  site  conditions 
accurately  and  provide  the  information  desired.  The  sampling  plan 
outlines  all  sample  locations,  collection  procedures,  and  analytical 
methods  to  be  used  in  a  sampling  episode. 

Once  the  samples  have  been  analyzed  by  a  laboratory,  basic 
interpretation  of  the  results  can  be  confusing  because  of  the  different 
formats  used  by  various  laboratories  to  report  analytical  results. 
Nevertheless,  there  are  a  few  standard  terms  used  by  laboratories  to 
report  the  concentrations  of  the  analytes.  In  addition,  quality  assurance 
parameters  have  been  established  through  common  laboratory  practices 
to  provide  a  means  of  measuring  both  the  accuracy  and  precision  of 
analysis  and  of  ensuring  that  no  external  contamination  was  introduced 
by  sample  collection  and  analysis  procedures. 


A 122  SAMPLING  AND  BASIC  DATA  INTERPRETATION  A 122 


This  appendix  is  divided  into  four  sections.  The  first  section 
covers  the  topics  addressed  in  the  sampling  plan.  The  second  defines 
the  types  of  quality  assurance  samples  and  a  few  additional  sampling 
terms.  The  third  section  covers  basic  data  interpretation,  including 
qualifier  codes  used  in  sample  analysis  reports  produced  by  laboratories 
in  EPA’s  Contract  Laboratory  Program  (CLP).  The  fourth  section 
deals  with  data  validation  procedures. 

Sampling  Plans 

Complete  site  sampling  plans  should  address  each  of  the 
following  topics  to  ensure  that  the  appropriate  protocols  are  observed 
during  the  sample  collection  and  analysis  processes  and  to  enable  the 
sampling  procedures  to  be  duplicated,  if  necessary.  Samples  are  not 
only  used  as  a  source  of  information  for  making  site  decisions,  they 
may  also  be  used  for  legal  purposes,  so  complete  documentation  of  the 
actual  sampling  event  is  important. 

•  Representative  Sample  Locations.  Representative  sampling 
locations  depend  on  the  purpose  of  the  sampling  activity.  The 
intended  data  use  will  guide  determination  of  the  sampling 
locations  and  pattern  and  total  number  of  samples.  Contamination 
verification  requires  fewer  samples  biased  toward  suspected  areas 
of  contamination;  such  samples  may  not  give  an  accurate 
presentation  of  the  overall  site  characterization,  however.  A  better 
overall  characterization  may  be  achieved  using  a  grid  pattern  to 
determine  sample  locations.  Use  of  a  grid  system  generally 
increases  the  number  of  samples  collected,  thus  increasing 
analytical  costs.  For  further  information,  consult  guidance 
documents  published  by  the  EPA  Office  of  Solid  Waste  and 
Emergency  Response  on  representative  sampling  of  soil,  water, 
and  hazardous  wastes  and  on  sample  collection  and  handling 
techniques. 

•  Analysis  Selection.  Specific  parameters  for  analysis  must  be 
established  while  assembling  the  sampling  plan.  The  laboratory 
should  be  notified  and  given  the  EPA-approved  method  number 


A123  SAMPLING  AND  BASIC  DATA  INTERPRETATION  A123 


and  the  desired  QA/QC  information.  The  analysis  selected 
influences  the  choice  of  sample  equipment,  volume,  preservation, 
and  holding  time.  A  summary  of  sample  container  types, 
preservatives,  holding  times,  and  analytical  methods  is  included  at 
the  end  of  this  section.  The  EPA  publication  Solid  Waste  846 
(SW-846),  "Test  Methods  for  Evaluating  Solid  Waste,"  gives 
information  on  analysis  methods  for  hazardous  wastes,  soils,  and 
non-aqueous  phase  liquids.  EPA  500  and  600  publications  cover 
test  methods  for  water. 

•  Quality  Assurance  Level.  The  level  of  quality  assurance  (Q A)  that 
the  sampling  event  must  meet  should  be  established  at  the  outset, 
as  the  level  selected  affects  the  sample  handling,  documentation, 
and  analysis  procedures  used.  QA  Level  1,  the  least  stringent 
level,  requires  sample  documentation  and  instrument  calibration/ 
performance  checks;  samples  are  field  screened. 

QA  1  applies  when  a  large  amount  of  data  is  needed 
quickly  and  relatively  inexpensively,  or  when  preliminary 
screening  data  does  not  need  to  be  analyte  or  concentration 
specific.  Examples  of  activities  where  QA  1  is  appropriate  include 
assessing  preliminary  on-site  health  and  safety,  assessing  waste 
compatibility,  characterizing  hazardous  waste,  and  determining 
extent  of  contamination. 

QA  2,  which  verifies  analytical  results,  requires  external 
laboratory  analysis  of  at  least  10  percent  of  field-screened  samples, 
sample  documentation,  chain-of-custody  documentation, 
documentation  of  sample  holding  times,  and  raw  instrument  data. 
To  meet  the  QA  2  objective,  samples  are  analyzed  using  rigorous 
methods  that  provide  quantitation  and  analyte-specific  information. 
Examples  of  activities  where  QA  2  is  appropriate  include  verifying 
preliminary  screening,  defining  extent  and  degree  of 
contamination,  and  verifying  site  cleanup. 

QA  3,  the  most  stringent  level,  assesses  the  identity  of  the 
analyte  of  interest  and  the  analytical  error  of  the  concentration 
level.  QA  3  incorporates  the  specifications  for  QA  2  and  also 
requires  the  analysis  of  eight  replicate  samples  to  determine 
analytical  error  and  analysis  of  a  performance  evaluation  sample. 
This  level  of  quality  assurance  is  used  when  determination  of 


A124  SAMPLING  AND  BASIC  DATA  INTERPRETATION  A124 


analytical  precision  in  a  certain  concentration  range  is  crucial  for 
decision  making.  Examples  of  activities  where  QA  3  is 
appropriate  include  evaluating  health  risk  or  environmental  impact, 
identifying  the  source  of  pollution,  and  verifying  cleanup. 

•  Sampling  Equipment  Selection.  The  type  of  sampling  equipment 
is  dictated  by  the  analysis  selection,  required  sample  volume, 
ability  of  decontamination,  equipment  composition,  and  cost.  The 
sampling  equipment  should  not  introduce  contamination  into  the 
sampling  procedure.  To  avoid  this,  sampling  equipment  should  be 
disposable  or  easily  decontaminated.  Disposable  equipment  must 
be  economical  or  used  when  extensive  decontamination  would  be 
required  for  durable  sampling  equipment.  The  equipment  must 
also  be  functional,  allowing  a  sampling  team  to  collect  samples 
quickly  and  efficiently.  The  composition  or  construction  materials 
of  sampling  equipment  may  affect  the  samples  collected  and  so 
must  be  considered  when  selecting  equipment. 

•  Sampling  Volumes.  Sampling  volumes  are  directly  related  to  the 
types  of  chemical  analyses  that  are  requested.  The  laboratory 
requires  a  precise  amount  of  a  sample  unique  to  the  specified  EPA- 
approved  analysis  or  method.  Providing  the  laboratory  with  an 
excess  of  sample  volume  increases  the  eventual  disposal  costs  to 
the  laboratory  and  in  turn  to  the  samplers.  Providing  the 
laboratory  with  insufficient  volume  can  lead  to  increased  field 
sampling  costs  and  to  delays. 

•  Sampling  Containers.  The  type,  size,  and  composition  of  sampling 
containers  are  directly  related  to  the  chemical  analysis  which  is 
requested.  The  size  of  the  container  must  conform  to  volume 
requirements  specified  in  the  EPA-approved  method.  The 
container  must  not  release  contaminants  into  the  sample  or  absorb 
material  from  the  sample.  The  container  must  ensure  that  ambient 
air  cannot  enter  into  the  sample,  and  conversely,  that  gas  from  the 
sample  cannot  escape  to  the  ambient  air. 

•  Sample  Preservation.  Samples  are  preserved  by  means  of 
environmental  controls  (e.g.,  cold  storage)  or  chemical  additives 


A 125  SAMPLING  AND  BASIC  DATA  INTERPRETATION  A 125 


(e.g.,  nitric  acid  or  sodium  hydroxide).  The  preservation  method 
is  directly  related  to  the  chemical  analysis  requested.  The  purpose 
of  preservation  is  to  keep  the  chemical  constituents  of  the  samples 
static  during  handling,  packing,  and  shipment  to  the  laboratory. 
Highly  concentrated  samples  do  not  usually  require  preservation. 

•  Sample  Holding  Times.  The  elapsed  time  between  sample 
collection  and  laboratory  analysis  must  be  within  a  predetermined 
time  frame  known  as  the  sample  holding  time.  Each  sample 
parameter  has  a  prescribed  holding  time.  Samples  analyzed 
beyond  the  holding  time  are  not  truly  representative  of  the  sampled 
material. 

•  Sample  Identification.  Each  sample  must  be  identified  and 
documented  to  ensure  sample  tracking  is  performed.  A  label  is 
made  for  each  sample,  reflecting  the  site  name,  site  location, 
sample  number,  date  and  time  of  sampling,  sampler  identification, 
preservative  used,  required  analysis,  and  sampling  location 
description. 

•  Sample  Custody.  Chain-of-custody  forms  are  used  to  track  the 
handling  of  samples  once  the  samples  are  collected.  The  samples 
are  documented  as  they  are  transferred  from  each  handler  or  to  the 
laboratory.  The  procedure  is  used  to  prevent  sample  tampering 
and  to  trace  the  path  of  a  sample  in  the  event  of  contamination  off 
site.  Chain-of-custody  seals  are  applied  as  directed  by  protocol. 

•  Sample  Transportation.  Samples  may  be  hand  delivered  to  the 
laboratory  using  government  vehicles  or  they  may  be  shipped  by 
a  common  carrier.  Regulations  for  packaging,  marking,  labeling, 
and  shipping  of  hazardous  materials  and  wastes  are  promulgated  by 
the  U.S.  Department  of  Transportation  (DOT).  Air  carriers  which 
transport  hazardous  materials,  in  particular,  Federal  Express, 
require  compliance  with  the  current  International  Air  Transport 
Association  (IATA)  Regulations,  which  applies  to  the  shipment  and 
transport  of  hazardous  materials  by  air  carrier.  Hazardous  waste 
site  samples  should  not  be  transported  in  personal  vehicles. 


A126  SAMPLING  AND  BASIC  DATA  INTERPRETATION  A 126 


Analytical 

Parameter 

Matrix 

Container 
Type  and 
Volume  (# 
containers 
req’d) 

Preser¬ 

vative 

degrees 

Celsius 

Holding 

Times 

Trip 

Blanks 

(VOAs) 

Analytical 

Method 

Ref. 

VOA 

S 

40  ml  Vial 
(2) 

4 

14  Days 

Yes 

8240  or 
8260/ 

SW846 

VOA 

W 

40  ml  Vial 

(3) 

4* 

14  Days 

Yes 

624/CLP 

BNA 

S 

8  oz  Glass 

0) 

4 

7  -  40 
Days 

8250  or 
8270  SW- 

846 

BNA 

W 

32  oz 

Amber 

Glass 

(1) 

4 

7  -  40 
Days 

625/CLP 

Pesticide 

S 

8  oz  Glass 

(1) 

4 

7  -  40 
Days 

8080/SW-' 

846 

One 

Bottle 

Per 

Medium 

Pesticide 

W 

32  oz 

Amber 

glass 

(1) 

4* 

7  -  40 
Days 

608 

to  test 

Pes/ 

PCB 

S 

8  oz  Glass 

4 

7  -  40 
Days 

8080/SW- 

846 

PCBs 

Together 

PCB 

W 

32  oz 

Amber 

Glass 

(1) 

4* 

7  -  40 
Days 

608 

P.P. 

Metals 

S 

8  oz  Glass 

4 

6*** 

Months 

SW-846 

P.P. 

Metals 

W 

1  liter  Glass 
or  poly¬ 
ethylene 
(1) 

hno3 

pH  <2 

4 

*** 

6 

Months 

EPA-600/ 

CFR  40 

Cyanide 

S 

8  oz  Glass 

0) 

4 

14  Days 

SW-846 

Cyanide 

W 

1  liter 
Poly¬ 
ethylene 
(1) 

NaOH 
to  pH 
>  12 

4 

14  Days 

SW-846 

* 

If  resid 

ual  chlorine  is  present,  preserve  with  0.008%  N2S203. 

**  Only  required  if  dedicated  sampling  tools  are  not  used. 

***  Exceptions  -  mercury  (28  days)  and  hexavalent  chromium  (24  hours  -  water). 
NOTE:  Nitric  acid  (HN03);  Sodium  thiosulfate  (N2S203);  Hydrochloric  Acid  (HC1) 


A127  SAMPLING  AND  BASIC  DATA  INTERPRETATION  A127 


Terminology 

•  Accuracy.  Accuracy  may  be  defined  as  the  measure  of  the 
closeness  to  a  true  or  accepted  value. 

•  Background  sample.  A  background  sample  is  a  sample  collected 
upgradient  of  the  area  of  contamination  (either  on  or  off  site) 
where  there  is  little  chance  of  migration  of  contaminants.  Properly 
collected  background  samples  indicate  the  natural  composition  of 
the  matrix  and  should  be  considered  clean  samples. 

•  Collocated  Sample.  A  sample  collected  adjacent  to  the  basic  field 
sample,  typically  one-half  to  three  feet  away  from  the  sample 
location.  Collocated  samples  are  used  to  assess  variation  in  the 
immediate  area  of  the  basic  sample. 

•  Field  Blank.  A  field  blank  is  a  sample  of  laboratory  pure  water 
or  certified  clean  soil  which  is  prepared  in  the  field  prior  to  any 
sampling  activities.  Analysis  of  the  sample  will  indicate  whether 
contamination  was  introduced  into  the  samples  during  the  collection 
process. 

•  Field  Duplicate.  A  field  duplicate  (or  replicate)  is  a  second  sample 
(or  set  of  samples)  collected  from  one  sample  location  and  labeled 
for  the  laboratory  as  if  it  were  a  unique  sample.  Field  duplicates 
are  primarily  used  to  check  the  precision  and  consistency  of  the 
sampling  procedures  used.  The  field  duplicate  can  also  act  as  a 
check  on  the  analytical  procedures. 

•  Holding  Times.  Holding  times  are  the  timeframe  within  which 
the  sample  must  be  analyzed  to  ensure  accurate  measurement  of  the 
analytes.  Holding  times  vary  depending  on  the  type  of  analysis  to 
be  performed. 

•  Laboratory  Duplicate.  Laboratory  duplicates  are  samples  prepared 
by  the  laboratory  and  analyzed  in  duplicate  to  measure  analytical 
reproducibility. 


A128  SAMPLING  AND  BASIC  DATA  INTERPRETATION  A128 


•  Matrix  Spike/Matrix  Spike  Duplicate.  A  matrix  spike  sample  is 
a  sample  to  which  a  target  compound  at  a  known  concentration  is 
added  during  laboratory  preparation  to  measure  the  accuracy  of  the 
analysis  procedure.  A  matrix  spike  duplicate  is  a  second  run  to 
determine  the  precision  of  analysis.  Such  samples  are  primarily 
used  to  check  sample  matrix  interferences,  but  can  be  used  to 
monitor  laboratory  performance. 

•  Method  Blank.  A  method  blank  is  a  sample  which  is  prepared  by 
the  laboratory  to  determine  if  any  contamination  is  being 
introduced  during  the  extraction  or  analysis  procedures. 

•  Method  Detection  Limit.  The  method  detection  limit  (MDL)  is 
the  lowest  concentration  that  can  be  measured  if  a  sample  is 
analyzed  according  to  the  method  procedures. 

•  Performance  Evaluation  Samples.  Performance  evaluation  (PE) 
samples  are  samples  of  known  concentrations  that  are  available 
from  either  the  EPA  or  the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Standards  for 
submission  with  the  field  samples  to  the  laboratory.  PE  samples 
should  be  of  the  same  or  similar  matrix  as  the  field  samples.  PE 
samples  are  used  to  check  the  overall  bias  of  the  laboratory  and  to 
detect  any  error  in  the  analytical  method  used. 

•  Precision.  Precision  may  be  defined  as  the  agreement  between  the 
numerical  values  of  two  or  more  measurements  made  in  an 
identical  fashion. 

•  Relative  Percent  Difference.  The  relative  percent  difference 
(RPD)  is  used  to  assess  the  variability  of  a  measurement  process. 
Typically,  the  value  represents  the  difference  between  the  matrix 
spike  and  the  matrix  spike  duplicate.  It  can  also  represent  the 
difference  between  two  analysis  runs. 

•  Rinsate  Blank.  A  rinsate  blank  is  a  sample  of  laboratory  pure 
water  run  over  sampling  equipment  following  decontamination. 
Rinsate  blanks  are  used  to  check  decontamination  effectiveness. 


A129  SAMPLING  AND  BASIC  DATA  INTERPRETATION  A129 


•  Split  Samples.  Split  samples  are  derived  from  one  large  volume 
sample  obtained  from  one  location,  then  thoroughly  homogenized, 
and  divided  into  separate  portions.  Each  portion,  or  split,  is 
placed  into  a  separate  container  and  treated  as  a  separate  sample. 
Samples  can  be  split  two  or  more  ways,  and  the  total  sample 
volume  depends  on  the  number  of  splits  and  the  analytic  method 
to  be  used.  Split  samples  are  usually  collected  when  a  responsible 
party  and  EPA  Enforcement  Section  or  several  government 
agencies  are  involved.  Split  samples,  which  typically  are  sent  to 
different  laboratories  for  analysis,  act  as  a  check  on  the  laboratory. 

•  Surrogate  Spike.  A  surrogate  spike  refers  to  a  procedure  in  which 
a  non-target  compound  is  added  to  the  sample  during  laboratory 
preparation  to  determine  the  extraction  efficiency.  Surrogate 
spikes  are  usually  used  only  with  organics. 

•  Trip  Blank.  A  trip  blank  is  a  sample  which  is  prepared  prior  to 
the  sampling  trip  using  laboratory  pure  water  or  certified  clean 
soil.  This  sample  travels  to  the  assessment  and  is  kept  with  the 
other  samples  but  is  not  opened  in  the  field.  Analysis  of  the  trip 
blank  will  indicate  whether  the  sample  containers  were 
contaminated  prior  to  the  assessment. 


A130  SAMPLING  AND  BASIC  DATA  INTERPRETATION  A130 


Basic  Data  Interpretation 


CONCENTRATION  UNITS  FOR  ANALYSIS 


Water  (Aqueous) 


Soil  or  Sediment 


Air 


Oils  or  Organics 


ppm  =  ug/mL  or  mg/L 
ppb  =  ng/mL  or  ug/L 
ppt  =  ng/L 

ppm  =  ug/g  or  mg/kg 
ppb  =  ng/g  or  ug/kg 
ppt  =  ng/kg 

mg/m3,  ng/m3  (temperature  and  pressure 
dependent) 

ppm  or  ppb  (unitless  measurement) 

The  concentrations  of  oils  or  organics 
should  be  expressed  using  the  soil  units 
listed  above.  Laboratory  results  that 
report  concentrations  for  oils  or 
organics  using  water  units  should  be 
questioned. 


GLOSSARY  OF  SOME  COMMON  DATA  QUALIFIER  CODES 
AND  TERMINOLOGY  USED  IN  THE  EPA  CONTRACT 
LABORATORY  PROGRAM  (CLP) 

CODES  RELATING  TO  IDENTIFICATION 

(indicate  confidence  concerning  presence  or  absence  of  compounds) 

U  =  Not  detected.  The  associated  number  indicates  the 

approximate  sample  concentration  necessary  to  be 
detected. 

B  =  Not  detected  substantially  above  the  level  reported  in 

laboratory  or  field  blanks. 


A131  SAMPLING  AND  BASIC  DATA  INTERPRETATION  A131 


R  =  Unreliable  result.  Analyte  may  or  may  not  be  present  in 

the  sample.  Supporting  data  is  necessary  to  confirm 
result. 

N  =  Tentative  identification.  Consider  analyte  present. 

Additional  sampling  and  special  methods  may  be  needed 
to  confirm  its  presence  or  absence. 

(NO  CODE)  =  Confirmed  identification 

CODES  RELATED  TO  QUANTITATION 
(indicate  positive  results  and  sample  quantitation  limits) 

J  =  Analyte  present;  reported  value  may  not  be  accurate  or 

precise. 

K  =  Analyte  present;  reported  value  may  be  biased  high. 

Actual  value  is  expected  to  be  lower. 

L  =  Analyte  present;  reported  value  may  be  biased  low. 

Actual  value  is  expected  to  be  higher. 

UJ  =  Not  detected;  quantitation  limit  may  be  inaccurate  or 

imprecise. 

UL  =  Not  detected;  quantitation  limit  is  probably  higher. 

OTHER  CODES 

Q  = 


No  analytical  result. 


A 132  SAMPLING  AND  BASIC  DATA  INTERPRETATION  A 132 


Data  Validation  Procedures 

Data  validation  is  the  process  by  which  a  qualified  data  reviewer 
ensures  the  quality  of  the  laboratory  analysis  and  the  reported  results. 
The  procedures  used  to  validate  a  data  package  vary  slightly  according 
to  the  type  of  analysis  performed  and  the  instrumentation  used.  Many 
times,  data  validation  requires  the  reviewer  to  draw  upon  his  or  her 
analytical  experience  and  expertise  to  make  subjective  decisions  about 
the  quality  of  a  set  of  results.  For  this  reason,  data  validation  should 
be  completed  only  by  qualified  persons. 

Data  validation  procedures  vary,  depending  on  the  type  of 
instrumentation  and  methods  used  for  analysis.  For  the  sake  of 
simplicity,  the  example  below  outlines  the  validation  procedures  for 
analytical  results  from  a  Gas  Chromatograph/Mass  Spectrometer 
(GC/MS).  While  validation  of  analyses  performed  on  other  types  of 
instruments  would  not  be  an  identical  process,  it  would  be  similar. 

EXAMPLE  DATA  VALIDATION  PROCEDURES  FOR  GC/MS 

1.  Did  the  laboratory  meet  the  holding  times  outlined  by  the 
sampling  protocol? 

•  If  yes,  accept  data. 

•  If  no,  data  should  be  accepted  as  estimates  only. 

2.  Was  the  GC/MS  properly  tuned? 

•  If  yes,  accept  the  data. 

•  If  no,  reject  all  GC/MS  data  because  compounds  may  be 
misidentified. 

3.  Was  the  instrument  properly  calibrated? 

•  If  yes,  accept  the  data. 

•  If  no,  data  should  be  accepted  as  estimates  only. 

4.  Were  method  blanks  free  of  contamination? 

•  If  yes,  accept  the  data;  further  action  is  not  required. 

•  If  no,  determine  if  the  contamination  was  the  result  of  a 

common  laboratory  chemical.  Sample  data  should  only  be 
rejected  if  the  analyte  concentration  is  less  than  three 
times  the  contaminant  concentration  in  the  blank. 


A133  SAMPLING  AND  BASIC  DATA  INTERPRETATION  A133 


5.  Were  field  blanks  free  of  contamination? 

•  If  yes,  accept  the  data;  further  action  is  not  required. 

•  If  no,  determine  if  the  contamination  was  the  result  of  a 
common  laboratory  chemical.  Sample  data  should  only  be 
rejected  if  the  analyte  concentration  is  less  than  three  times  the 
contaminant  concentration  in  the  blank. 

6.  Were  the  surrogate  spike  recoveries  for  all  organics  acceptable? 

•  If  yes,  accept  the  data. 

•  If  no,  evaluate  each  sample  on  an  individual  basis  and  accept 
or  reject  the  data  as  necessary. 

7.  Were  the  matrix  spike  recoveries  and  the  relative  percent 
differences  values  acceptable? 

•  If  yes,  the  laboratory  has  demonstrated  good  precision  and 
accuracy;  accept  the  data. 

•  If  no,  evaluate  on  per  compound  basis. 

Additional  Guidance  Documents 

-1986.  EPA.  "Test  Methods  for  Evaluating  Solid  Waste,"  SW-846. 
Office  of  Solid  Waste  and  Emergency  Response.  Washington,  DC. 
November. 

1990.  EPA  (U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency).  "Quality 
Assurance/Quality  Control  Guidance  for  Removal  Activities:  Sampling 
QA/QC  Plan  and  Data  Validation  Procedures."  Interim  Final. 
EPA/540/G-90/004 .  Office  of  Emergency  and  Remedial  Response. 
Washington,  DC.  April. 

1993.  EPA.  "Region  III  Modifications  to  the  Laboratory  Data 
Validation  Functional  Guidelines  for  Evaluating  Inorganic  Analyses." 
EPA  Region  III  Office  of  Analytical  Services  and  Quality  Assurance. 
Annapolis,  MD.  April. 

1994.  EPA.  "Region  III  Modifications  to  National  Functional 
Guidelines  for  Organic  Data  Review,  Multi-Media,  Multi-Concentration 
(OLMOl  .O-OLMOl  .9).  EPA  Region  III  Office  of  Analytical  Services 
and  Quality  Assurance.  Annapolis,  MD.  September. 


A 134  SAMPLING  AND  BASIC  DATA  INTERPRETATION  A 134 


U.S.  Office  of  Federal  Register.  "Code  of  Federal  Regulations,"  40 
CFR,  Part  136.  Office  of  Federal  Register  National  Archives  and 
Records  Administration.  Washington,  DC. 


APPENDIX  4 


Container  Silhouettes 


By  using  common  sense,  looking  at  what  a  container  is  made  of  and  how 
it  is  constructed,  responders  can  get  some  quick  clues  and  general  ideas 
about  the  material  inside.  Look  for  things  like  the  construction  material 
of  the  container  (steel,  stainless  steel,  plastic,  fiberboard,  glass,  etc.)  to 
make  a  rough  determination  as  to  its  contents.  Steel  containers  usually 
do  not  contain  corrosive  materials  or  oxidizing  materials  because  these 
materials  corrode  steel.  Plastic  containers  usually  do  not  contain  solvents 
or  flammable  materials  because  these  materials  usually  dissolve  plastics. 
Stainless  steel  containers  are  expensive  to  construct  and  are  usually 
reserved  for  very  corrosive  materials  or  very  strong  oxidizers  (materials 
which  may  destroy  other  types  of  steel  and  plastics).  Fiberboard 
containers  usually  contain  solid  materials.  Glass  containers  are  used  for  a 
wide  variety  of  materials.  Look  for  other  container  clues  as  well,  such  as 
rounded  or  spherical  shape  (usually  associated  with  pressurized 
materials),  color  (amber  glass  may  contain  light-sensitive  materials),  and 
types  of  openings  (bungs,  valves,  ring-tops,  etc.).  All  of  these  clues  may 
help  to  identify  the  type  of  hazardous  material  involved. 

Over-the-Road  Transport,  Non-Pressurized 

Of  all  the  containers  encountered,  these  are  probably  the  most  common. 
They  can  contain  almost  anything,  and  are  all  regulated  by  DOT  with 
regards  to  construction  and  specification.  The  listing  that  follows 
specifies  the  DOT  designation  and  provides  a  general  description  of  the 
types  of  materials  carried  and  a  generic  outline  of  the  tank  in  question. 


A136 


CONTAINER  SILHOUETTES 


A136 


DD  DO 


Rear  View 

Specifications: 

Non-Pressurized  (3-7  psig),  9,000-gallon 
maximum  capacity,  normally  single-shell 
aluminum  construction.  May  have  up  to  8 
compartments. 

Transports: 

Liquids,  normally  with  a  specific  gravity  less 
than  1,  such  as:  petroleum  products,  solvents, 
and  poisons  6.1  (Packing  Group  II  and  PG  III). 


A137 


CONTAINER  SILHOUETTES 


A137 


OO 


Side  View 


Rear  View 

Specifications: 

Non-Pressurized  (3-25  psig),  7,000-gallon 
maximum  capacity,  normally  double  shell 
carbon  steel  or  stainless  steel  construction.  May 
have  2  compartments,  and  usually  has  an 
insulating  jacket. 

Transports: 

Liquids,  normally  with  a  specific  gravity  greater 
than  1,  including  general  chemicals  and  mild 
corrosives. 


A138 


CONTAINER  SILHOUETTES 


A138 


00  00 


Rear  View 

Specifications: 

Non-Pressurized  (3-25  psig),  6,000-gallon 
maximum  capacity,  single  or  double  shell 
carbon  steel,  stainless  steel,  or  poly-lined  steel 
construction.  May  have  up  to  4  compartments. 
May  be  insulated. 

Transports: 

Very  strong  corrosive  liquids,  normally  with  a 
specific  gravity  much  greater  than  1,  including 
spent  sulfuric  acid,  hydrochloric  acid,  and 
sodium  hydroxide. 


A139 


CONTAINER  SILHOUETTES 


A139 


PNEUMATIC  HOPPER  TRAILERS 


00WUW  ] 


Side  View 


Specifications: 

Non-Pressurized  (3-25  psig),  1,500-cubic  feet 
maximum  capacity,  usually  single-shell 
aluminum  or  steel  construction.  May  have  up 
to  4  compartments. 

Transports: 

Solids  in  powder  form  such  as  fertilizers, 
cement,  and  dry  caustic  soda. 


A140 


CONTAINER  SILHOUETTES 


A140 


Over-the-Road  Transport,  Pressurized 

These  containers  are  also  regulated  by  DOT,  however  they  pose  some 
slightly  different  hazards  to  responders  than  the  non-pressurized 
containers.  Pressurized  containers  may  contain  gases,  liquified  gases,  or 
cryogenic  materials,  dependant  upon  the  specific  tank  involved.  In 
almost  all  cases,  the  materials  these  containers  hold  will  be  gases  when 
released  into  the  environment.  This  creates  some  significant  hazards  for 
responders,  since  gases  usually  have  the  greatest  potential  for  migration, 
and  therefore  the  greatest  potential  to  impact  a  large  area  and  a  large 
number  of  people.  Unfortunately,  gases  are  also  probably  the  most 
difficult  state  of  matter  to  contain  and  control. 


A141 


CONTAINER  SILHOUETTES 


A141 


ivrr.  u 


Side  View 


Rear  View 


Specifications: 

Pressurized  (100-500  psig),  1 1,500-gallon 
maximum  capacity,  normally  single-shell  steel 
construction,  uninsulated,  upper  2/3  painted 
white.  May  be  compartmented. 

Transports: 

Liquified  gases,  such  as  LPG,  propane,  and 
anhydrous  ammonia. 


A142 


CONTAINER  SILHOUETTES 


A142 


MC-338 


00  00 


Rear  View 


Specifications: 

Pressurized  (25-500  psig),  14,000-gallon 
maximum  capacity,  normally  double-shell  steel. 
Single  compartments  with  relief  valves 
(normally  venting  during  operations). 

Transports: 

Liquified,  cryogenic  (-150°F  or  less)  gases  such 
as  liquid  nitrogen,  liquid  oxygen,  and  liquid  carbon 
dioxide. 


A143 


CONTAINER  SILHOUETTES 


A143 


TUBE  TRAILER 


00  00 


Rear  View 


Specifications: 

High  pressure  (3,000-5,000  psig),  2-20  steel 
cylinders,  all  containing  the  same  material  and 
manifolded  together  at  the  rear. 

Transports: 

Gases  under  high  pressure,  such  as  argon, 
helium,  oxygen,  and  nitrogen. 


A144 


CONTAINER  SILHOUETTES 


A144 


Rail  Transport  Containers 

In  general,  rail  cars  pose  significant  problems  to  responders  as  a  result  of 
the  quantity  of  material  involved.  Mitigation  of  an  incident  involving  a 
rail  car  can  tax  resources,  because  in  many  instances  local  response 
organizations  may  not  have  the  type  or  amount  of  mitigation  resources 
required.  In  addition,  rail  cars  involved  in  accidents  can  be  damaged 
severely.  These  types  of  accidents  can  last  for  several  days,  pose 
substantial  threats  to  the  public  and  responders,  and  result  in  the  release 
of  large  amounts  of  materials. 

Rail,  Non-Pressurized 

Unlike  over-the-road  containers,  it  is  not  possible  to  determine  whether  a 
rail  car  is  non-pressurized  by  the  shape  of  the  tank.  Rail  cars  almost 
always  have  some  type  of  an  insulating  jacket.  This  makes  it  impossible 
to  see  the  tank  and  determine  its  shape.  For  rail  cars,  the  best  method  of 
determining  non-pressurized  cars  from  pressurized  cars  is  to  look  at  the 
manway  area  on  top  of  the  car.  Non-pressurized  cars  have  a  large,  bolted 
manway  with  several  fittings  (relief  valves,  gauging  rods,  etc.)  around  it 
which  are  relatively  unprotected.  They  will  usually  also  have  off-loading 
valves  on  the  sides  or  bottom  of  the  car. 


A145 


CONTAINER  SILHOUETTES 


A145 


Rail,  Pressurized 

Pressurized  rail  cars  will  have  a  well-protected  dome  covering  the 
valving  assembly  on  top  of  the  car.  This  dome  is  normally  locked 
closed,  and  protects  all  of  the  off-loading  valves  and  relief  valves  on  the 
car.  There  will  be  no  other  valving  visible  on  the  car. 


Fixed  Facility,  Non-Pressurized 

Fixed  facility  containers  can  contain  almost  anything.  These  containers 
are  normally  fixed  in  place,  and  may  be  extremely  large  (containing 
millions  of  gallons  of  material,  in  some  cases).  Non-pressurized  fixed 
facility  containers,  more  correctly  termed  “atmospheric”  tanks  since  they 
are  generally  at  ambient  atmospheric  pressures,  can  normally  be 
identified  by  reviewing  the  construction.  These  tanks  may  have  dome 
roofs,  geodesic  dome  roofs,  floating  roofs,  or  simply  flat  roofs.  They  are 
normally  not  constructed  with  rounded  ends  or  edges. 


A146 


CONTAINER  SILHOUETTES 


A146 


Dome  Roof  Tank 

STORES:  flammable  and  combustible 
liquids,  chemical  solvents,  etc. 


Cone  Roof  Tank 

STORES:  flammable,  combustible, 
and  corrosive  liquids 

1  ^  — 

Open  Floating  Roof  Tank 
STORES:  flammable  and  combustible 
liquids 

<A 

7 

Open  Floating  Roof  Tank  with 
Geodesic  Dome 
STORES:  flammable  liquids 


A147 


CONTAINER  SILHOUETTES 


A147 


Covered  Floating  Roof  Tank 

™  —  —  —  —  — 

STORES:  flammable  and  combustible 

liquids 

^  —  ^ 

Horizontal  Tanks 

STORES:  flammable  and 

combustible  liquids,  corrosive  liquids, 

poisons,  etc. 

A148 


CONTAINER  SILHOUETTES 


A148 


Fixed  Facility,  Pressurized 

As  with  any  tank,  pressurized  fixed  facility  tanks  will  have  rounded 
edges,  and  may  even  be  perfectly  spherical.  They  can  be  under  very  high 
pressure  and  usually  contain  relatively  large  quantities  of  gases,  liquified 
gases,  or  cryogenic  materials. 


High  Pressure  Horizontal  Tank 
STORES:  liquid  propane  gases, 
anhydrous  ammonia,  flammable 
liquids  with  high  vapor  pressures 


High  Pressure  Spherical  Tank 
STORES:  liquid  propane  gases 


Cryogenic  Liquid  Tank 
STORES:  liquid  oxygen  (LOX), 
liquid  nitrogen,  and  other  liquified 
gases 


A149 


CONTAINER  SILHOUETTES 


A149 


Fixed  Facility,  Underground  Storage 

Underground  storage  is  very  common  at  fixed  facilities.  Underground 
storage  tanks  can  usually  be  identified  by  manways,  fill  pipes,  vent  pipes, 
concrete  pads  with  covered  fill  holes,  or  electrical  cables  entering  or 
exiting  the  ground.  These  tanks  primarily  contain  petroleum  products, 
and  may  be  extremely  large. 


Underground  Storage  Tank 
STORES:  primarily  petroleum 
products 


. 

' 


■ 


APPENDIX  5 


Guide  to  DOT 

and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


The  United  States  Department  of  Transportation  (DOT)  requires 
transporters  to  display  diamond-shaped  placards  on  the  exterior  of  their 
vehicles  when  carrying  hazardous  materials  above  certain  weight  limits. 
These  placards  represent  the  type  of  hazards  presented  by  the  materials 
being  carried,  according  to  the  hazard  class  they  fall  under.  There  are 
nine  hazard  classes  specified  by  DOT,  several  of  which  are  subdivided 
into  divisions.  These  divisions  segregate  special  types  of  material 
hazards  within  a  hazard  class. 

Placards  are  diamond-shaped  markers,  10-3/4  inches  on  each  side, 
which  consist  of  four  major  components;  the  hazard  class  symbol,  the 
hazard  class  number,  the  background  color,  and  (to  a  lesser  degree)  the 
United  Nations  ID  number  or  the  hazard  class  name.  These  four 
components  can  be  used  to  determine  the  hazards  presented  by  a 
material  in  transport,  usually  from  a  safe  distance  away. 

The  hazard  class  symbol  is  located  in  the  top  comer  of  the  diamond  and 
is  specific  to  the  hazard  presented  by  the  material. 

The  hazard  class  number  (and  the  division  number  for  Class  1  and  Class 
5  materials)  is  located  in  the  bottom  comer  of  the  diamond,  and  is 
specific  to  its  hazard  class  or  division. 

The  background  color  provides  the  background  for  the  placard  and 
corresponds  to  a  specific  hazard  presented  by  the  material. 


A152 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A152 


The  hazard  class  name,  as  well  as  the  United  Nations  (UN)  ID  number, 
may  or  may  not  be  present.  If  the  hazard  class  name  is  present,  it  will 
be  located  in  the  center  of  the  placard  between  the  hazard  class  symbol 
and  the  hazard  class  number.  If  the  UN  ID  number  is  present,  it  will 
either  be  located  in  the  center  of  the  placard  between  the  hazard  class 
symbol  and  the  hazard  class  number,  or  immediately  adjacent  to  the 
placard  itself.  UN  ID  numbers  will  be  four  digits  long,  and  will  be 
black  on  a  white  background  (if  located  in  the  center  of  the  placard)  or 
black  on  an  orange  background  (if  located  adjacent  to  the  placard). 

Keep  in  mind  that  neither  of  these  markings  may  be  present.  It  is 
therefore  important  to  be  familiar  with  the  other  placard  components. 


4-Digit  UN  ID 
Number 


White 

Background 


Orange 

Background 


Background 
Color 


Hazard  Class 
Name 


Hazard  Class 
Number 


Hazard  Class 
Symbol 


The  following  list  provides  DOT  definitions  for  the  specified  hazard 
classes  and  divisions,  as  well  as  examples  of  the  specific  placards 
utilized.  Any  material  which  falls  into  any  of  these  DOT  classes  will 
require  placarding  in  transport  if  it  exceeds  certain  weight  limits. 


A153 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A153 


Class  1  (explosives) 

Explosive  means  any  substance  or  article,  including  a  device, 
that  is  designed  to  function  by  explosion  (i.e.,  an  extremely 
rapid  release  of  gas  and  heat)  or  that,  by  chemical  reaction 
within  itself,  is  able  to  function  in  a  similar  manner  even  if  not 
designed  to  function  by  explosion.  Explosives  in  Class  1  are 
divided  into  six  divisions.  Each  division  will  have  a  letter 
designation  (located  where  the  *  is  on  the  placards).  All  of 
these  placards  have  orange  backgrounds. 


Division  1.1  consists  of 
explosives  that  have  a 
mass  explosion  hazard.  A 
mass  explosion  is  one  that 
affects  almost  the  entire 
load  instantaneously. 
Examples:  black  powder, 
dynamite,  and  TNT. 


Division  1.2  consists  of  explosives  that  have  a  projectile  hazard 
but  not  a  mass  explosion  hazard.  Examples:  aerial  flares, 
detonating  cord,  and  power  device  cartridges. 


Division  1.3  consists  of  explosives  that  have  a  fire  hazard  and 
either  a  minor  blast  or  a  minor  projectile  hazard,  or  both,  but 
not  a  mass  explosion  hazard.  Examples:  liquid-fueled  rocket 
motors  and  propellant  explosives. 


*vw  v  * 


Division  1.4  consists  of 
explosive  devices  that 
present  a  minor  explosion 
hazard.  No  device  in  the 
division  may  contain  more 
than  25  g  (0.9  oz)  of  a 
detonating  material.  The 
explosive  effects  are  largely  confmed  to  the  package  and  no 
projection  of  fragments  of  appreciable  size  or  range  are 
expected.  An  external  fire  must  not  cause  instantaneous 


A154 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A154 


explosion  of  the  entire  contents  of  the  package.  Examples: 
line-throwing  rockets,  practice  ammunition,  and  signal 
cartridges. 

Division  1.5  consists  of 
very  insensitive  explosives. 
This  division  comprises 
substances  that  have  a  mass 
explosion  hazard  but  are  so 
insensitive  that  there  is 
very  little  probability  of  initiation  or  of  transition  from  burning 
to  detonation  under  normal  conditions  of  transport.  Examples: 
prilled  ammonium  nitrate  fertilizer-fuel  oil  mixtures  (blasting 
agents). 


detonating  substances  and  the 
probability  of  accidental  initi 


Division  1.6  consists  of 
extremely  insensitive 
articles  that  do  not  have  a 
mass  explosive  hazard. 
This  division  comprises 
articles  that  contain  only 
extremely  insensitive 
demonstrate  a  negligible 
ion  or  propagation. 


Class  2  (compressed  gases) 


Division  2. 1  (flammable 
gas)  RED 

BACKGROUND  COLOR. 
Any  material  that  is  a  gas 
at  20°C  (68°F)  or  less  and 
101.3  kPa  (14.7  psi)  of 
pressure;  a  material  that 
has  a  boiling  point  of  20°C  (68°F)  or  less  at  101.3  kPa  (14.7 
psi)  and  that  (a)  is  ignitable  at  101.3  kPa  (14.7  psi)  when  in  a 


A155 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A155 


mixture  of  13%  or  less  by  volume  with  air;  or  (b)  has  a 
flammable  range  at  101.3  kPa  (14.7  psi)  with  air  of  at  least 
12%  regardless  of  the  lower  limit.  Examples:  inhibited 
butadienes,  methyl  chloride  and  propane. 


Division  2.2 
(nonflammable, 
nonpoisonous  compressed 
gas,  including  compressed 
gas,  liquified  gas, 
pressurized  cryogenic  gas, 
and  compressed  gas  in 

solution)  GREEN  BACKGROUND  COLOR.  Any  material 
(or  mixture)  that  exerts,  in  the  packaging,  an  absolute  pressure 
of  280  kPa  (41  psia)  at  20°C  (69°F). 


A  cryogenic  liquid  is  defined  as  a  refrigerated  liquified  gas 
having  a  boiling  point  colder  than  -90°C  (-130°F)  at  101.3  kPa 
(14.7  psi)  absolute.  Examples:  anhydrous  ammonia,  cryogenic 
argon,  carbon  dioxide,  and  compressed  nitrogen. 


Division  2. 3  (poisonous  gas) 
WHITE  BACKGROUND 
COLOR.  A  material  that  is 
a  gas  at  20°C  (68°F)  or  less 
and  a  pressure  of  101.3  kPa 
(14.7  psi  or  1  atm),  a 
material  that  has  a  boiling 
point  of  20°C  (68°F)  or  less  at  101.3  kPa  (14.7  psi),  and  that 
(a)  is  known  to  be  so  toxic  to  humans  as  to  pose  a  hazard  to 
health  during  transportation;  or  (b)  in  the  absence  of  adequate 
data  on  human  toxicity,  is  presumed  to  be  toxic  to  humans 
because,  when  tested  on  laboratory  animals,  it  has  an  LC50 
value  of  not  more  than  5,000  ppm.  Examples:  anhydrous 
hydrogen  fluoride,  arsine,  chlorine,  and  methyl  bromide. 


Hazard  zones  associated  with  Division  2.3  materials: 


Hazard  zone  A:  LC50  less  than  or  equal  to  200  ppm. 


A156 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A156 


Hazard  zone  B:  LC50  greater  than  200  ppm  and  less  than  or 
equal  to  1,000  ppm. 

Hazard  zone  C:  LC50  greater  than  1,000  ppm  and  less  than  or 
equal  to  3,000  ppm. 

Hazard  zone  D:  LC50  greater  than  3,000  ppm  and  less  than  or 
equal  to  5,000  ppm. 


(Flammable  liquid)  RED 
BACKGROUND  COLOR 
Any  liquid  having  a  flash 
point  of  not  more  than 
60.5°C  (141°F). 

Examples:  acetone,  amyl 
acetate,  gasoline,  methyl 
alcohol,  and  toluene. 

Hazard  zones  associated  with  Class  3  materials: 

Hazard  zone  A:  LC50  less  than  or  equal  to  200  ppm. 

Hazard  zone  B:  LC50  greater  than  200  ppm  and  less  than  or 
equal  to  1,000  ppm. 

A  combustible  liquid  (RED  BACKGROUND  COLOR)  is 
defined  as  any  liquid  that  does  not  meet  the  definition  of  any 
other  hazard  class  and  has  a  flash  point  above  60°C  (140°F) 
and  below  93°C  (200°F).  Flammable  liquids  with  a  flash  point 
above  38°C  (100°F)  may  be  reclassified  as  a  combustible 
liquid. 

Examples:  mineral  oil,  peanut  oil,  and  No.  6  fuel  oil. 


Class  3  (flammable  liquid) 


A157 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A157 


Class  4  (flammable/reactive  materials) 


Division  4. 1  (flammable 
solid)  RED  AND  WHITE 
STRIPED  BACKGROUND 
COLOR.  Any  of  the 
following  three  types  of 
materials: 


(a)  Wetted  explosives  -  explosives  wetted  with  sufficient  water, 
alcohol,  or  plasticizers  to  suppress  explosive  properties. 


(b)  Self-reactive  materials  -  materials  that  are  liable  to 
undergo,  at  normal  or  elevated  temperatures,  a  strongly 
exothermic  decomposition  caused  by  excessively  high  transport 
temperatures  or  by  contamination. 

(c)  Readily  combustible  solids  -  solids  that  may  cause  a  fire 
through  friction  and  any  metal  powders  that  can  be  ignited. 


Examples:  magnesium  (pellets,  turnings,  or  ribbons)  and 
nitrocellulose. 


Division  4.2  (spontaneously 
combustible  material) 
WHITE  TOP  HALF  AND 
RED  BOTTOM  HALF 
BACKGROUND  COLOR. 
Any  of  the  following 
materials: 

(a)  Pyrophoric  material  -  a  liquid  or  solid  that,  even  in  small 
quantities  and  without  an  external  ignition  source,  can  ignite 
within  5  minutes  after  coming  in  contact  with  air. 

(b)  Self-heating  material  -  a  material  that,  when  in  contact  with 
air  and  without  an  energy  supply,  is  liable  to  self  heat. 

Examples:  aluminum  alkyls,  charcoal  briquettes,  magnesium 
alkyls,  and  phosphorus. 


A158 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A158 


Division  4.3  (dangerous 
when  wet  material)  BLUE 
BACKGROUND 
COLOR.  A  material  that, 
by  contact  with  water,  is 
liable  to  become 
spontaneously  flammable 
or  to  give  off  flammable  or  toxic  gas  at  a  rate  greater  than  1  L 
per  kg  of  the  material  per  hour.  Examples:  calcium  carbide, 
magnesium  powder,  potassium  metal  alloys,  and  sodium 
hydride. 


Class  5  (oxidizers) 


materials.  Examples:  am 
and  calcium  hypochlorite. 


Division  5. 1  (oxidizer) 
YELLOW 

BACKGROUND  COLOR. 
A  material  that  may, 
generally  by  yielding 
oxygen,  cause  or  enhance 
the  combustion  of  other 
nitrate,  bromine  trifluoride, 


Division  5.2  (organic 
peroxide)  YELLOW 
BACKGROUND  COLOR. 
Any  organic  compound 
containing  oxygen  (O)  in 
the  bivalent  -O-O-  structure 
that  may  be  considered  a 
derivative  of  hydrogen  peroxide,  where  one  or  more  of  the 
hydrogen  atoms  have  been  replaced  by  organic  radicals. 

Division  5.2  materials  are  assigned  to  one  of  seven  types: 


A159 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A159 


Type  A  -  organic  peroxide  that  can  detonate  or  deflagrate 
rapidly  as  packaged  for  transport.  Transportation  of  type  A 
organic  peroxides  is  forbidden. 

Type  B  -  organic  peroxide  that  neither  detonates  nor  deflagrates 
rapidly,  but  that  can  undergo  a  thermal  explosion. 

Type  C  -  organic  peroxide  that  neither  detonates  nor 
deflagrates  rapidly,  and  cannot  undergo  a  thermal  explosion. 

Type  D  -  organic  peroxide  that  detonates  only  partially  or 
deflagrates  slowly,  with  medium  to  no  effect  when  heated 
under  confinement. 

Type  E  -  organic  peroxide  that  neither  detonates  nor 
deflagrates,  and  shows  low  or  no  effect  when  heated  under 
confinement. 

Type  F  -  organic  peroxide  that  will  not  detonate,  does  not 
deflagrate,  shows  only  a  low,  or  no,  effect  if  heated  when 
confined,  and  has  low  or  no  explosive  power. 

Type  G  -  organic  peroxide  that  will  not  detonate,  does  not 
deflagrate,  shows  no  effect  if  heated  when  confined,  has  no 
explosive  power,  is  thermally  stable,  and  is  desensitized. 

Examples:  dibenzoyl  peroxide,  methyl  ethyl  ketone  peroxide, 
and  peroxy acetic  acid. 

Class  6  (poisons) 


Division  6. 1  (poisonous 
material)  WHITE 


BACKGROUND  COLOR. 
A  material,  other  than  a  gas, 
that  is  either  known  to  be  so 
toxic  to  humans  as  to  afford 
a  hazard  to  health  during 


transportation,  or  in  the  absence  of  adequate  data  on  human 
toxicity,  is  presumed  to  be  toxic  to  humans,  including 


A160 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A160 


that  cause  irritation.  Examples:  aniline,  arsenic  compounds, 
carbon  tetrachloride,  hydrocyanic  acid,  and  tear  gas. 

Division  6.2  (infectious  substances)  WHITE  BACKGROUND 
COLOR.  A  viable  microorganism,  or  its  toxin,  that  causes  or 
may  cause  disease  in  humans  or  animals.  Infectious  substance 
and  etiologic  agent  are  synonymous  with  each  other. 

Examples:  anthrax,  botulism,  rabies,  and  tetanus. 


Class  7  (radioactives) 


(, radioactive  materials) 
YELLOW  TOP  HALF, 
WHITE  BOTTOM  HALF 
BACKGROUND  COLOR. 
A  radioactive  material  is 
defined  as  any  material 
having  a  specific  activity 
greater  than  0.002  microcuries  per  gram  (uCi/g).  Examples: 
cobalt,  uranium  hexafluoride,  and  "yellow  cake." 


Class  8  (corrosive) 


0 corrosive  materials) 
WHITE  TOP  HALF  AND 
BLACK  BOTTOM  HALF 
BACKGROUND  COLOR. 
A  corrosive  material  is 
defined  as  a  liquid  or  solid 
that  causes  visible 
destruction  or  irreversible  alterations  in  human  skin  tissue  at 
the  site  of  contact,  or  a  liquid  that  has  a  severe  corrosion  rate 
on  steel  or  aluminum. 


Corrosivity  is  measured  by  pH,  which  ranges  from  0  (highly 
acidic)  through  7  (water,  neutral)  to  14  (highly  basic).  Acids 
attack  tissues  aggressively.  Bases  (also  referred  to  as  alkaline 
and  caustic)  attack  tissues  less  aggressively  in  general; 


A161 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A161 


however,  they  are  fat  soluble  and  therefore  have  a  greater 
potential  to  affect  subcutaneous  layers. 

Examples:  nitric  acid,  phosphorus  trichloride,  sodium 
hydroxide,  and  sulfuric  acid. 


Class  9  (miscellaneous) 


BLACK  AND  WHITE 
STRIPED  TOP  HALF, 
AND  WHITE  BOTTOM 
HALF  BACKGROUND 
COLOR.  A  miscellaneous 
hazardous  material  is 
defined  as  a  material  that 
presents  a  hazard  during  transport,  but  that  is  not  included  in 
another  hazard  class,  including  (a)  any  material  that  has  an 
anesthetic,  noxious,  or  similar  property  that  could  cause 
extreme  annoyance  or  discomfort  to  a  flight  crew  member  so 
as  to  prevent  the  correct  performance  of  assigned  duties;  and 
(b)  any  material  that  is  not  included  in  any  other  hazard  class, 
but  is  subject  to  the  DOT  requirement  (a  hazardous  substance 
or  a  hazardous  waste). 

Examples:  adipic  acid,  hazardous  substances  (e.g.,  PCBs), 
and  molten  sulfur. 


In  summary: 

Class  1:  Explosives 

Orange  background,  bursting  ball  symbol 
Class  2:  Compressed  Gases 
2. 1  Flammable  Gas 
Red  background,  flame  symbol 
2. 2Non- Flammable  Gas 
Green  background,  cylinder  symbol 
2.3  Poison  Gas 

White  background,  skull  and  crossbones  symbol 
Class  3:  Flammable  Liquids 


A162 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A162 


Red  background,  flame  symbol 
Class  4:  Flammable  Materials 

4.1  Flammable  Solids 

Red  and  white  striped  background,  flame  symbol 

4.2  Spontaneously  Combustible 

White  top  half  and  red  bottom  half  background,  flame  symbol 

4.3  Dangerous  When  Wet 
Blue  background,  flame  symbol 

Class  5:  Oxidizing  Materials 

5.1  Oxidizers 

Yellow  background,  burning  “O”  symbol 

5.2  Organic  Peroxides 

Yellow  background,  burning  “O”  symbol 
Class  6:  Poisonous  Materials  (other  than  gases) 

6.1  Poisons 

White  background,  skull  and  crossbones  symbol  (or  com  stalk 
symbol) 

6.2  Infectious  Substances 

White  background,  biohazard  symbol 
Class  7:  Radioactive  Materials 

Yellow  top  half  and  white  bottom  half  background,  propeller 
symbol 

Class  8:  Corrosives 

White  top  half  and  black  bottom  half  background,  test  tube 
pouring  liquid  on  steel  rod  and  hand  symbol 
Class  9:  Miscellaneous 

Black  and  white  stripe  top  half  and  white  bottom  half 
background,  no  symbol 

DOT  exempts  certain  materials  from  placarding  requirements 
when  in  transport.  These  materials  are  designated  “Otherwise 
Regulated  Materials,”  abbreviated  "ORM".  Prior  to  the  HM- 
181  standards,  these  materials  were  designated  ORM- A, 
ORM-B,  ORM-C,  ORM-D,  and  ORM-E.  Today,  only  the 
ORM-D  materials  remain. 

ORM-D  Material 


An  ORM-D  material  is  a  material  that  presents  a  limited 
hazard  during  transportation  due  to  its  form,  quantity,  and 
packaging. 


A163 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A163 


Examples  of  ORM-D  materials  include  consumer  commodities 
and  small  arms  ammunition. 

The  National  Fire  Protection  Association  (NFPA)  has  developed  a 
standardized  marking  system  (704M)  designed  to  be  utilized  at  fixed 
facilities  storing  hazardous  or  flammable  materials.  This  system  has  been 
adopted  by  many  industries,  and  may  now  be  found  on  small  containers 
as  well  as  large  fixed  facility  containers.  The  system  was  originally 
designed  to  provide  firefighters  critical  information  on  the  hazards  posed 
by  stored  materials  during  firefighting  operations.  As  such,  it  needed  to 
be  large  enough  to  see  and  concise  enough  to  be  quickly  discernible  in 
emergency  situations. 

The  NFPA  704  system  uses  a  diamond  divided  into  four  different  color 
quadrants.  Each  quadrant  is  colored  differently,  representing  a  specific 
hazard.  The  red  quadrant  (top)  represents  a  flammability  hazard,  the  blue 
quadrant  (left)  represents  a  health  (or  toxicity)  hazard,  the  yellow 
quadrant  (right)  represents  a  reactivity  (explosion)  hazard,  and  the  white 
quadrant  (bottom)  is  reserved  for  special  hazards.  The  diamond  looks 
like  this: 


Blue  Quad 
(Health) 


Red  Quadrant 
"(Flam  ability) 


White  Quadrant 
(Special) 


Yellow  Quadrant 


(Reactivity) 


NFPA  704  Marking  System 


The  numbers  in  each  quadrant  of  the  NFPA  704  system  indicate  the 
degree  of  hazard  posed  to  a  firefighter  (wearing  turn-out  bunker  gear  and 


A164 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A164 


an  SCBA)  for  that  particular  quadrant.  A  "0"  indicates  minimal  risk,  and 
a  "4"  indicates  high  risk.  More  specifically,  the  NFPA  designations  for 
the  numbers  assigned  to  these  quadrants  are  as  follows: 

Blue  -  Health  Hazard 

In  general,  the  health  hazard  in  fire  fighting  is  that  of  a  single  exposure, 
the  duration  of  which  may  vary  from  a  few  seconds  up  to  an  hour.  The 
physical  exertion  demanded  in  fire  fighting  or  other  emergencies  may  be 
expected  to  intensify  the  effects  of  an  exposure.  In  assigning  degrees  of 
danger,  local  conditions  must  be  considered.  The  following  explanation 
is  based  on  use  of  the  protective  equipment  normally  worn  by  fire 
fighters. 

4  -  These  materials  are  too  dangerous  to  health  for  a  firefighter  to 
be  exposed.  Turn-out  bunker  gear  and  an  SCBA  are  not 
adequate  protection  from  inhalation  and  skin  exposure  to 
this  material.  Skin  contact  with  the  vapor  or  liquid  of  this 
material  may  be  fatal.  Inhalation  of  the  vapors  of  this  material 
may  be  fatal. 

3  -  These  materials  are  extremely  hazardous  to  health,  but  fire  areas 
may  be  entered  with  extreme  care.  Turn-out  bunker  gear  and  an 
SCBA  may  not  be  adequate  protection  from  inhalation  and  skin 
exposure  to  this  material.  No  skin  surface  should  be  exposed 
and  additional  protective  clothing  may  be  needed. 

2  -  These  materials  are  hazardous  to  health,  but  fire  areas  may  be 
entered  freely  with  turn-out  bunker  gear  and  an  SCBA.  Turn¬ 
out  bunker  gear  and  an  SCBA  are  adequate  protection  from 
inhalation  and  skin  exposure  to  this  material. 

1  -  These  materials  are  only  slightly  hazardous  to  health.  Turn-out 
bunker  gear  and  an  SCBA  are  adequate  protection  from 
inhalation  and  skin  exposure  to  this  material. 

0  -  These  materials,  even  under  fire  conditions,  pose  no  additional 
health  hazards  over  those  of  ordinary  combustible  materials. 
Turn-out  bunker  gear  and  an  SCBA  are  adequate  protection 
from  inhalation  and  skin  exposure  to  this  material. 


A165 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A165 


Red  -  Flammability  Hazard 

Susceptibility  to  burning  is  the  basis  for  assigning  degrees  within  this 
category.  The  method  of  attacking  the  fire  is  influenced  by  this 
susceptibility  factor. 

4  -  These  materials  are  extremely  flammable  gases  or  extremely 
volatile  flammable  liquids.  If  possible,  stop  the  flow  and  keep 
exposed  tanks  cool.  Withdrawal  may  be  necessary. 

3  -  These  materials  can  be  ignited  under  almost  all  normal 

temperature  conditions.  Water  may  be  an  ineffective  means  of 
extinguishing  these  materials  because  of  the  very  low  flash 
point. 

2  -  These  materials  must  be  heated  slightly  before  they  will  ignite. 

Water  may  be  an  effective  means  of  extinguishing  these 
materials  because  they  can  be  cooled  below  their  flash  points. 

1  -  These  materials  must  be  preheated  before  they  will  ignite.  A 
water  fog  may  be  sufficient  to  extinguish  these  materials  when 
burning. 

0  -  These  materials  will  not  bum. 

Yellow  -  Reactivity  (Stability)  Hazard 

The  assignment  of  degrees  in  the  reactivity  category  is  based  upon  the 
susceptibility  of  materials  to  release  energy  either  by  themselves  or  in 
combination  with  water.  Fire  exposure  was  one  of  the  factors  considered 
along  with  conditions  of  shock  and  pressure. 

4  -  These  materials  are  readily  capable  of  detonation  or  explosive 

decomposition  at  normal  temperatures  and  pressures.  If  they 
are  involved  in  a  massive  fire,  vacate  the  area  immediately. 

3  -  These  materials,  when  heated  or  under  confinement,  are  capable 

of  detonation  or  explosive  decomposition  and  they  may  react 
violently  with  water.  Fire  fighting  should  be  conducted  from 
behind  explosion  resistant  barriers. 


A166 


Guide  to  DOT  and  NFPA  PLACARDS 


A166 


2  -  These  materials  will  undergo  violent  chemical  change  at 
elevated  temperatures  or  pressures  but  do  not  detonate. 
Firefighting  should  be  conducted  from  a  distance  or  with 
portable  monitors  if  possible.  Tanks  containing  these  materiafs 
should  be  kept  cool.  Use  caution. 

1  -  These  materials  are  normally  stable,  but  may  become  unstable 
in  combination  with  other  materials  or  at  elevated  temperatures 
or  pressures.  Fire  fighting  can  be  conducted  utilizing 
precautions  normal  to  any  fire. 

0  -  These  materials  are  normally  stable  and  do  not  present  any 
reactivity  hazards  to  firefighters. 

White  -  Special  Hazard 

Under  the  704  system,  a  “W”  with  a  slash  through  it  indicates  that  no 
water  should  be  used.  An  “OX”  indicates  that  the  material  is  an  oxidizer, 
and  may  increase  the  flammability  hazard  of  other  materials.  There  are 
some  other  symbols  that  may  appear  in  this  quadrant,  such  as: 

ALK  -  This  material  is  corrosive  to  skin  and  steel,  and  is  a  base  (alkaline) 
material. 

ACID  -  This  material  is  corrosive  to  skin  and  steel  and  is  an  acid 
material. 


AwA  -  This  material  is  radioactive. 


APPENDIX  6 


Integrating  Removal  and 
Remedial  Site  Assessment 
Investigations 


United  States 

Office  of 

Directive  9345.1-6FS 

Environmental  Protection 

Solid  Waste  and 

EPA540-F-93-038 

Agency 

Emergency  Response 

September  1993 

EPA  INTEGRATING  REMOVAL  AND 


REMEDIAL  SITE  ASSESSMENT 
INVESTIGATIONS 


Office  of  Emergency  and  Remedial  Response 
Hazardous  Site  Evaluation  Division  (5204G)+ 
Quick  Reference  Fact  Sheet 


Increased  efficiency  and  shorter  response  times  are  the  primary 
objectives  of  integrating  removal  and  remedial  site  assessment 
investigations  under  the  Superfund  Accelerated  Cleanup  Model 
(SACM).  This  is  based  on  the  assumption  that  there  is  duplication  of 
effort  between  the  programs.  A  critical  element  of  SACM  is  a 
continuous  and  integrated  approach  to  assessing  sites.  The  concept  of 
integrating  removal  and  remedial  site  assessment  activities  was 
introduced  in  Assessing  Sites  Under  SACM — Interim  Guidance 
(OSWER  Publication  9203.1-051,  Volume  1,  Number  4,  December 
1992).  This  fact  sheet  examines  areas  of  duplication  and  key 
differences  between  the  two  types  of  investigations,  and  describes 


A168 


INTEGRATING  INVESTIGATIONS 


A168 


some  approaches  for  integrating  assessments.  The  primary  audience 
for  this  information  is  the  site  assessment  community  which  includes 
EPA  On-Scene  Coordinators  (OSCs)  and  Site  Assessment  Managers 
(SAMs),  their  counterparts  in  state  or  other  federal  agencies,  and 
assessment  contractors. 

REMOVAL  ASSESSMENTS  AND  REMEDIAL  SITE 
ASSESSMENTS 

Figure  1  illustrates  traditional  assessment  activities  of  the  removal  and 
remedial  programs  prior  to  SACM.  Typically,  when  EPA  is  notified  of 
a  possible  release  (under  CERCLA  Section  103),  the  removal  program 
determines  whether  there  is  a  need  for  emergency  response  by  EPA.  If 
a  response  is  deemed  necessary,  an  OSC  and/or  a  removal  program 
contractor  will  visit  the  site.  If  circumstances  allow,  a  file  and 
telephone  investigation  should  be  initiated  prior  to  the  site  visit.  The 
OSC  may  decide  to  take  samples  during  this  initial  visit  or  may 
postpone  sampling.  EPA  can  initiate  a  removal  action  at  any  point  in 
the  assessment  process.  If  the  OSC  determines  that  the  site  does  not 
warrant  a  removal  action,  he  may  refer  the  site  to  remedial  site 
assessment  or  the  State  for  further  evaluation,  or  recommend  no  further 
federal  response  action. 

The  remedial  site  assessment  process  is  similar  to  that  of  the  removal 
program.  Once  a  site  has  been  discovered  and  entered  into  the 
CERCLIS  data  base,  the  SAM  directs  that  a  preliminary  assessment 
(PA)  be  performed  at  the  site.  The  focus  of  PA  data  collection  is  the 
set  of  Hazard  Ranking  System  (HRS)  factors  that  can  be  obtained 
without  sampling  (e.g.,  population  within  lA  mile).  The  PA  includes  a 
file  and  telephone  investigation,  as  well  as  a  site  visit  (the  PA 
reconnaissance,  or  “recon”).  The  PA  recon  differs  from  the  typical 
removal  site  visit  because  samples  are  not  collected  and  observations 
are  often  made  from  the  perimeter  of  the  site  (although  some  Regions 
prefer  on-site  PA  recons).  From  the  PA  information,  the  SAM 
determines  if  a  site  inspection  (SI)  is  needed  (i.  e.,  whether  the  site 
could  score  greater  than  the  28.5  needed  to  qualify  for  inclusion  on  the 
National  Priorities  List  (NPL)).  The  SI  would  include  sufficient 
sampling  and  other  information  to  allow  the  SAM  to  determine 
whether  the  score  is  above  28.5.  Even  in  cases  where  SI  data  are 


A169 


INTEGRATING  INVESTIGATIONS 


A169 


adequate  for  this  decision,  it  may  be  necessary  to  conduct  an  expanded 
site  inspection  (ESI)  to  obtain  legally  defensible  documentation. 

In  general,  the  remedial  site  assessment  process  is  more  structured  than 
the  removal  assessment  and  operates  on  a  less  intensive  schedule.  The 
remedial  site  assessment  process  is  focused  on  collecting  data  for  the 
HRS,  while  Removal  assessments  are  based  on  whether  site  conditions 
meet  National  Contingency  Plan  (NCP)  criteria  for  a  removal  action. 

INTEGRATING  ASSESSMENT  ACTIVITIES 

While  there  are  differences  in  objectives  between  removal  and  remedial 
assessments  (i.e.,  NCP  removal  criteria  versus  HRS),  many  of  the  same 
factors  are  important  to  both  programs:  the  potential  for  human 
exposure  through  drinking  water,  soils,  and  air  pollution;  and  threats  to 
sensitive  environments  such  as  wetlands.  Similarities  in  the  activities 
required  by  both  assessments-telephone  and  file  investigations,  site 
visits  or  PA  recons,  removal  or  SI  sampling  visits — suggest  that  the 
activities  can  be  consolidated.  The  challenge  of  integrating 
assessments  is  to  organize  the  activities  to  enhance  efficiency. 

The  basic  goals  of  an  integrated  assessment  program  under  SACM  are: 

•  Eliminate  duplication  of  effort. 

•  Expedite  the  process.  At  a  minimum,  avoid  delays  for  time-critical 
removal  actions  or  early  actions  (see  Early  Action  and  Long-Term 
Action  Under  SACM-  Interim  Guidance,  OSWER  Publication 
9203.1  -  051,  Volume  1,  Number  2,  December  1992,  for  details  on 
early  and  long-term  actions). 

•  Minimize  the  number  of  site  visits  and  other  steps  in  the  process. 

•  Collect  only  the  data  needed  to  assess  the  site  appropriately. 

The  last  point  is  critical  to  enhancing  efficiency  since  not  all  sites  need 
to  be  assessed  in  depth  for  both  removal  and  remedial  purposes. 
Integrating  assessments  does  not  mean  simply  adding  together  the 
elements  of  both  assessment  for  all  sites — efficient  decision  points 


A 170 


INTEGRATING  INVESTIGATIONS 


A170 


must  be  incorporated  into  the  integration  process.  The  elements 
deemed  necessary  for  an  integrated  assessment  depend  on  the 
particular  needs  of  a  specific  site  and  could  involve  similar,  additional, 
or  slightly  different  activities  from  traditional  removal  or  remedial  site 
assessments. 

Figure  2  shows  an  approach  for  integrating  the  two  assessments  and 
indicates  ways  to  eliminate  unnecessary  data  collection.  The  most 
important  features  of  the  approach  are  the  combined  notification/site 
discovery/screening  function;  the  single  site  visit  for  both  programs; 
phased  file  searches  as  appropriate;  and  integrated  sample  planning  and 
inspection.  This  approach  is  detailed  below. 

Notification/Site  Discovery/Screening 

This  “one  door”  notification  process  is  a  combination  of  the  current 
removal  and  remedial  program  notification/discovery.  All  remedial 
and  removal  program  discovered  sites  are  screened  for  possible 
emergency  response.  The  screening  step  would  determine  whether 
there  is  time  for  a  file  search  prior  to  the  initial  site  visit. 


Index 


Abandoned  tank  cars, . 45 

Absorption, . A99-A101 

Additive  effects  . A 106 

Air,  . A113-A115 

American  Association  of  Railroads,  . 8 

Analytical  terminology,  .  A 127- 129 

Antagonistic  effects,  . A 106 

APR, . 6 

ATSDR, . 12 

Basic  data  interpretation, . A121-A133 

Biological  variation,  . A 102 

CAMEO,  . 10 

Centers  for  Disease  Control . 8 

Chemical  Emergency  Preparedness  Program . . 8 

Chemical  storage,  . 32-33 

Chemical  mixtures,  .  A105-A106 

Additive  effects, . • . A106 

Antagonistic  effects,  . A 106 

Potentiation  effects, . A 106 

Synergistic  effects,  . A 106 

CHEMTREC . 8 

CIS . 10 

Concentration  units, . A 130 

Criteria  for  removal  action, . 13-15 

Data  validation  procedures,  . A132-A133 

Dose  vs  response, .  A103-A104-A105 

Drum  site,  . 24-26 

Emergency  Removal  Guidelines  . 49-70 

Environmental  media,  . All 3- A 119 

Air,  . A113-A1 15 

Soils  .  A116-A117 

Water,  . A117-A119 

Fire/explosion  cene, . 22-23 


IDLH, . A 1 1 1 

Industrial  facility, . 37-40 

Inhalation,  . A98-A99 

Injection,  . A 102 

Ingestion, .  A 101 -A  102 

Laboratory  site,  . 34-36 

Lagoon  site,  . 27-28 

Landfill  site,  . 29-31 

MCL,  . A112 

National  Animal  Poison  Control  Center,  . 9 

National  Contingency  Plan, . 13-18 

National  Pesticide  Telecommunications  Network, . 9 

PEL, . A 1 1 1 

Potentiation  effects, . A 106 

Preliminary  assessment,  . 13,15,18' 

Qualitative  hazard  recognition,  . 19-47 

Abandoned  tank  cars, . 45 

Chemical  storage, . 32-33 

Drums  site, . 24-26 

Fire/explosion  scene, . 22-23 

Industrial  facility, . 37-40 

Laboratory, . 34-36 

Lagoon, . 27-28 

Landfill, . 29-31 

Service  building/maintenance, . 46 

Underground  storage  tank, . 44 

Warehouse, . 45 

Removal  Action  Levels  (RALs) . 72-91 

Removal  and  Remedial  Site  Investigation,  . A 167- A 170 

RCRA  hotline, . 9 

Routes  of  Exposure,  . A97-105 

Absorption, . A99-A101 

Inhalation,  . A98-A99 

Injection,  . A 102 

Ingestion, . A101-A102 


Safe  Drinking  Water  hotline . 9 

Safety, .  5-6 

Sampling, . A122-A133 

Sampling  plan, . A122,  A123-A127 

SCBA, . 6 

Service  building/maintenance  site,  . 46 

Site  investigation, . 13,  15,  18-20 

Soils, . A116-A117 

Superfund  hotline, . 9 

Synergistic  effects,  . A 106 

Texas  Tech  University  Pesticide  Hotline, . 9 

TLV, . A110 

TLV-C,  . A110 

TLV-STEL, . A110 

TLV-TWA, . A110 

Toxicology, . A93-A112 

TOXNET,  . 10 

TSCA  hotline,  . 9 

Underground  storage  tank, . 44 

US  Department  of  Transportation  Hotline  . 9 

Warehouse, . 45 

Water, .  A117-A119 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  012  298  528  3 


.  <^/7fn£9  ■*  v1  (/i  *  ®  v  , 

®>\A;5S,/l  v 

cv  xT  ,\V/*  v  v 

W  / tffe'*  •* Ok\ < 


r+  >c 

Z  «  i  ~  ^r~3gN;  r  x  *>  -  2  O*'?'  «  <r^F"«c5b  , 

¥/j?\  *  *,<$&"  **v\  *fp$ 

&  ,  °°  ,W*(  °o  %k  o° 

*  *##;  V  °41®*  «fev*  *m1>:  ^ 


