
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at jhttp : //books . qooqle . com/ 



)US MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION ACT 
REAUTHORIZATION 




S. HFC. 106-266 



P76-77 

HEARING 

BEFORE THE 

loMMITTEE ON SURFACE TRANSPORTATION 
AND MERCHANT MARINE 

Of THE 

COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, 
HENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION 
UNITED STATES SENATE 

ONE HUNDRED FIFTH CONGRESS 



FIRST SESSION 
MAY 8, 1997 
the u« of the Committee on Common*. Science, end T«u*port»tion 



STANFORD 
MBRARIES 















ion - ' 

Digitized b 










































061S - Z6| . riJH . £ :f ■£* 'J.^ 



SENATE COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION 

ONE HUNDRED FIFTH CONGRESS 

FIRST SESSION 

JOHN McCAIN, Arizona, Chairman 
TED STEVENS, Alaska ERNEST F. HOLUNGS, South Carolina 

CONRAD BURNS, Montana DANIEL K. INOUYE, Hawaii 

SLADE GORTON, Washington WENDELL H. FORD, Kentucky 

TRENT LOTT, Mississippi JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER IV, West Virginia 

KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON, Texas JOHN F. KERRY, Massachusetts 

OLYMPIA J. SNOWE, Maine JOHN B. BREAUX, Louisiana 

JOHN ASHCROFT, Missouri RICHARD H. BRYAN, Nevada 

BILL FRIST, Tennessee BYRON L. DORGAN, North Dakota 

SPENCER ABRAHAM, Michigan RON WYDEN, Oregon • 

SAM BROWNRACK, Kansas 

JOHN RAIDT, Staff Director 

MARK BUSB, Policy Director 

Ivan A. Schlager Democratic Chief Counsel and Staff Director 

Jambs S.W. Drewry, Democratic Chief Counsel 



Subcommittee on Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine 

KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON, Texas Chairman 
TED STEVENS, Alaska DANIEL K. INOUYE, Hawaii 

CONRAD BURNS, Montana JOHN B. BREAUX, Louisiana 

OLYMPIA J. SNOWE, Maine BYRON L. DORGAN, North Dakota 

SPENCER ABRAHAM, Michigan RICHARD H. BRYAN, Nevada 

JOHN ASHCROFT, Missouri RON WYDEN, Oregon 

01) 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONTENTS 



Pm«e 

Hearing held May 8, 1997 1 

Statement of Senator Hutchison 7 

Prepared statement 8 

Statement of Senator Wyden 1 

Witnesses 

Chipkevich, Robert, Chief. Hazardous Materials/Pipeline Division, Office of 

Surface Transportation, National Transportation Safety Board 8 

Prepared statement 10 

Coyner, Kelley S., Deputy Administrator, Research and Special Programs 

Administration, Department of Transportation 3 

Prepared statement 5 

Harvison, Clifford, president, National Tank Truck Carriers, Inc 22 

Prepared statement 23 

Hilton, Cynthia, executive director, Association of Waste Hazardous Materials 

Transporters 19 

Prepared statement 21 

Lane, Charlotte R., chairman, Public Service Commission of West Virginia 15 

Prepared statement 17 

Appendix 

Response to written Questions of Kelley S. Coyner submitted by: 

Hon. Kay Bailey Hutchison 30 

Hon. Conrad Burns 38 

Hon. Ernest F. Hollings 39 

Hon. Daniel K. Inouye 41 

Hon. Ron Wyden 41 

Response to written Questions of Charlotte R. Lane submitted by: 

Hon. Kay Bailey Hutchison 42 

Hon. Ernest F. Hollings 42 

Response to written questions of Cynthia Hilton submitted by: 

Hon. Kay Bailey Hutchison 44 

Hon. Ernest F. Hollings 46 

Hon. Daniel K. Inouye 47 

Response to written questions of Robert Chipkevich submitted by: 

Hon. Kay Bailey Hutchison 48 

Hon. Ernest F. Hollings 71 

Hon. Daniel K. Inouye 72 

Response to written questions of Clifford J. Harvison submitted by: 

Hon. Kay Bailey Hutchison 73 

Hon. Ernest F. Hollings 74 

Hon. Daniel K. Inouye 75 

Other Material Submitted for the Hearing Record: 

Association of American Railroads, prepared statement 75 

Compressed Gas Association, Inc., prepared statement 78 

Hollings, Hon. Ernest F., U.S. Senator from South Carolina, prepared 

statement 29 

Inouye, Hon. Daniel K., VS. Senator from Hawaii, prepared statement ... 29 

(III) 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION 
ACT REAUTHORIZATION 



THURSDAY, MAY 8, 1997 

U.S. Senate, 
Subcommittee on Surface Transportation and 

Merchant Marine, 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 

Transportation, 

Washington, DC. 
The subcommittee met, pursuant to notice, at 10:35 a.m. in room 
SR-253, Russell Senate Office Building, Hon. Ron Wyden presid- 
ing. 

Staff members assigned to this hearing: Ann Begeman, Charlotte 
Casey, professional staff members; Clyde Hart, minority senior 
counsel; and Carl W. Bentzel, minority staff counsel. 

OPENING STATEMENT OF HON. RON WYDEN, U.S. SENATOR 

FROM OREGON 

Senator Wyden. The subcommittee will come to order. Today, the 
subcommittee begins the process of reauthorizing the programs of 
Research and Special Programs Administration, the agency that 
oversees the transportation of hazardous materials, efforts to main- 
tain the safety of the Nation's citizens is obviously one of the high- 
est obligations of the U.S. Senate. 

The hazardous materials transportation regulation is not as well- 
known to many people as other types of transportation regulation. 
Its functions obviously are no less necessary. Fortunately, the De- 
partment of Transportation's RSPA has stringent standards for the 
transportation of hazardous materials, and it is no accident that 
overall safety record for the movement of hazardous materials is 
excellent. 

However, to maintain this record it is essential to always search 
for ways to enhance safety. That is the reason that this is an im- 
portant hearing. To search for ways to make safety even more cer- 
tain and continue to try to refine the process of protecting our citi- 
zens is our challenge. RSPA will give us an overview of its efforts 
to date. 

In the wake of the ValuJet tragedy a year ago next week, I espe- 
cially want to hear what measures the agency has undertaken to 
ensure that such tragedies do not happen again. The National 
Transportation Safety Board provides valuable input into the safe- 
ty process and will, we are sure, tell us what else should be done 
to enhance safety. 

(1) 



Digitized by 



Google 



Additionally, the presence of the National Tank Truck Carriers 
Association, the hazardous waste transporters, and the West Vir- 
ginia PSC will give us new information and insights on reauthor- 
ization from their perspective. 

I understand that each organization has reservations about the 
administration's proposal to reauthorize RSPA through the vehicle 
of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Safety Reauthorization 
Act. I hope that all the witnesses will look on this hearing as an 
opportunity to work with the subcommittee to bring about higher 
levels of safety. 

The National Transportation Safety Board is not an agency that 
normally gathers headlines, but they do especially important work, 
and we are anxious to have their input. 

Let me also say that I am especially concerned about some of the 
transportation safety provisions in S. 104, the Nuclear Waste Pol- 
icy Act, and the concern is that there is a different standard for nu- 
clear waste shipments than those that normally apply under the 
Hazardous Materials Transportation Act. 

As the author of the transportation safety provisions of S. 104, 
I know that the intent of these provisions was to have the hazard- 
ous materials safety requirements apply to nuclear waste transpor- 
tation using at least as protective a standard as is applied to other 
hazardous materials. 

More importantly, I think, any fair reading of these provisions 
can only lead to the conclusion that the Hazardous Materials 
Transportation Act standards apply to nuclear waste shipments, 
except that S. 104 calls for greater care to be taken so as to avoid 
populated areas. 

First, section 203 of S. 104 clearly requires normal Hazardous 
Materials Transportation Act standards to apply to nuclear waste 
shipments. It states, and I quote, "Any person that transports 
spent nuclear fuel or high level radioactive waste should comply 
with all requirements governing such transportation issued by the 
Federal, State, and local Governments, and Indian tribes in the 
same way and to the same extent that any person engaging in that 
transportation must comply with such requirements." 

Even though this legislation seems clear on its face, the Depart- 
ment of Transportation apparently believes there is some question 
about the applicability of the Hazardous Materials Transportation 
Act to nuclear waste shipments under S. 104. 

The Department's Research and Special Program Administration 
apparently is confused by a clause in S. 104 that calls for transpor- 
tation routes to be used "to the maximum practical extent consist- 
ent with practical requirements governing transportation of haz- 
ardous materials." 

Under only the most convoluted reading of the bill, one that to- 
tally ignores the context of this provision, could anyone conclude 
that this language creates a weaker standard for nuclear waste 
shipments. Read in context, this language says that nuclear waste 
shipments should avoid populated areas to the extent that this can 
be done consistent with other requirements for hazardous mate- 
rials shipments. 

So we are anxious to hear further from RSPA with respect to the 
applicability of this bill to hazardous materials. It seems to me that 



Digitized by 



Google 



the language that was added to this legislation strengthens our ef- 
forts to ensure that these materials are moved safely, and we will 
have some questions for the RSPA witnesses before too long. 

Let me also say that the chair of our subcommittee, our able 
chair, Senator Hutchison, was called away to be on the floor, and 
she wants all the witnesses to know that she very much had want- 
ed to be here. She is going to ask a number of questions for the 
record, and we are going to have, in the interests of time, all of our 
panel members come forward now. 

So let us begin, if we might, with the Hon. Kelley S. Coyner, 
Deputy Administrator, Research and Special Programs Administra- 
tion, Department of Transportation, and we welcome your remarks. 

STATEMENT OF KELLEY S. COYNER, DEPUTY ADMINIS- 
TRATOR, RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRA- 
TION, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION; ACCOMPANIED 
BY ALAN ROBERTS, ASSOCIATE ADMINISTRATOR FOR HAZ- 
ARDOUS MATERIALS SAFETY 

Ms. Coyner. Good morning, Senator Wyden, and I would say 
other members of the subcommittee, but I will welcome them when 
they come. 

I am Kelley Coyner, the Deputy Administrator of the Research 
and Special Programs Administration. I appreciate the opportunity 
to update you on the Department's ongoing efforts to improve the 
safety of transporting hazardous materials. Today, I have with me 
Mr. Alan Roberts, our Associate Administrator for Hazardous Ma- 
terials Safety. 

The transportation of hazardous material is a critical part of the 
U.S. economy. There are many ways to measure it, but perhaps the 
most important way is for individuals who are not sensitive to the 
things tnat they use every day being hazardous materials. They 
play an extremely important role in our every day life. 

Hazardous materials include such things as radio- 
pharmaceuticals, which are vital for medical treatment, cosmetics, 
and cleaning supplies, as well as a number of chemicals that are 
important for our manufacturers Nationwide. Getting these prod- 
ucts to the people who need them requires literally hundreds of 
thousands of hazardous material shipments per day. The public 
counts on these shipments being made safely. 

The program we have developed for hazardous materials trans- 
portation provides a very good level of safety. However, we are al- 
ways looking for opportunities to strengthen the program. 

Safety is Secretary Slater's first priority, and it is the first prior- 
ity for our hazardous materials transportation program. Today, I 
would like to emphasize three principal areas. First, we have com- 
prehensive standards for safe transportation of hazardous mate- 
rials and we are looking for ways to strengthen those standards. 

Second, we must ensure that shippers and carriers understand 
our standards and know how to comply with them, and finally, we 
must detect those people who refuse or neglect to comply with 
safety requirements and stop their illegal activities. 

A key to the good safety record for hazardous materials transpor- 
tation is a strong, uniform set of rules that is consistent among the 
States and across international borders. During the last year we 



Digitized by 



Google 



have continued to enhance our safety standards on a number of 
fronts. 

As required by Congress, we issued a final rule applying our 
safety standards to interstate highway shipments of hazardous ma- 
terials. The rule contains common sense provisions that recognize 
the needs of small businesses, farmers, and others, by including 
important exceptions in areas that do not have a significant impact 
on safety. 

We have also worked to improve the safety of hazardous mate- 
rials by air. Working with the Federal Aviation Administration 
after the ValuJet accident last spring, we banned the carriage of 
oxygen generators as cargo aboard passenger-carrying aircraft. 

We have also exceeded the National Transportation Safety 
Board's recommendations by proposing to prohibit the carriage of 
oxidizers on passenger-carrying aircraft in inaccessible compart- 
ments on cargo aircraft. Very soon, we plan to issue a supple- 
mental notice further analyzing the need to prohibit the carriage 
of oxidizers aboard passenger aircraft in other compartments. 

On the international front, we are also pursuing strong, uniform 
standards. These standards provide our international neighbors 
and Americans overseas with the same level of safety they enjoy 
here and promote trade for U.S. businesses by removing inconsist- 
ent packaging labeling and other requirements from the inter- 
national transportation system. 

Maintaining strong safety standards is an important first step. 
These standards are not helpful, however, if shippers and carriers 
do not understand them or do not know how to ensure that they 
are in compliance with the regulations. This is especially true in 
hazardous materials transportation, because many companies are 
small and ship hazardous materials infrequently, perhaps only 
once or twice per year. 

Because of the threat posed by undeclared shipments of hazard- 
ous materials, we are committed to investing resources to inform 
shippers and carriers about our safety standards. 

Following the tragic ValuJet accident last year, which appears to 
have been caused by an undeclared shipment of hazardous mate- 
rials, we expanded our training and public education efforts in the 
aviation field in particular. 

We are particularly proud of the distribution of millions of copies 
of a brochure which explain which materials cannot be brought 
aboard aircraft by passengers. This brochure, These May Fly and 
These May Not Fly, makes it very easy for each individual pas- 
senger to know what is permissible and safe to carry in their bag- 
gage. 

In our reauthorization bill, we are proposing to allow States up 
to 25 percent of their hazardous material grant funds to assist 
small businesses with regulatory compliance. We are upgrading our 
Internet site and our hazardous materials and information center 
to allow for public access to hazardous materials transportation in- 
formation. 

Although training and public education are valuable tools for en- 
hancing compliance, there will always be people who refuse or ne- 
glect to comply with our safety standards. Consequently, we sup- 
port an aggressive enforcement program. 



Digitized by 



Google 



With the support of the President and Congress we obtained and 
have moved rapidly to fill 15 new hazardous materials inspector 
provisions. We established a RSPA hazardous materials safety re- 
gional office in Atlanta, a major hub of hazardous materials activ- 
ity. Last summer, we conducted joint inspections with the FAA at 
aviation repair stations. 

With respect to undeclared hazardous materials shipments our 
reauthorization proposal specifically authorizes DOT enforcement 
personnel to open packages that most likely contain hazardous ma- 
terials and evaluate their contents. Our proposal would also au- 
thorize DOT to issue emergency orders where there is a situation 
involving a significant risk of death, personal injury, or harm to the 
environment. 

j RSPA is committed to working with all segments of the hazard- 
ous materials community to prevent deaths, injury, and property 
cjamage, and to safeguard our environment. At the Federal, State, 
and local levels we continue to strengthen existing programs and 
cultivate new programs that bring us closer to achieving our goal, 
improved safety in the transportation of hazardous materials. 

Thank you, and I would be pleased to answer any questions you 
might have. 

[The prepared statement of Ms. Coyner follows:] 

Prepared Statement of Kelley S. Coyner, Deputy Administrator, Research 
and Special Programs Administration, Department of Transportation 

Good morning, Chairman Hutchison and members of the subcommittee. I am 
Kelley Coyner, Deputy Administrator of the Research and Special Programs Admin- 
istration (RSPA). Thank you for the opportunity to update you on the Department 
of Transportation's ongoing efforts to improve the safety of transporting hazardous 
materials. With me today is Mr. Alan Roberts, RSPA's Associate Administrator for 
Hazardous Materials Safety. 

The transportation of hazardous materials is a critical part of America's economy. 
One way to measure that importance is by noting that non-petroleum chemicals con- 
stitute roughly a $1.4 trillion global industry, with the VS. chemical industry ac- 
counting for about 25 percent of the world's total. Getting these products, such as 
radiopharmaceuticals, cosmetics, and cleaning supplies, to the people who need 
them requires literally hundreds of thousands of hazardous materials shipments per 
day. The public counts on these shipments being made safely. 

The program we have developed for hazardous materials transportation provides 
an excellent level of safety. Despite the heavy volume of hazardous materials ship- 
ments, injuries and fatalities resulting from hazardous materials transportation are 
rare. We recognize, however, that there is more that can be done. Safety is Sec- 
retary Slater's first priority, and it is the first priority for our hazardous materials 
transportation program. 

Today. I want to emphasize three main points. First, we have comprehensive 
standards for the safe transportation of hazardous materials, and we are always 
looking for ways to improve those standards. Second, we must ensure that shippers 
and carriers understand our standards and know how to comply with them. Finally, 
we must detect people who either refuse or neglect to comply with safety require- 
ments and we must stop their illegal shipments. 

protecting the public— strong safety standards 

Hazardous materials transportation has an excellent overall safety record. Haz- 
ardous materials transportation incidents resulting in injury or death are relatively 
rare. A key to this good safety record is a strong, uniform set of rules that is consist- 
ent among the States and across international borders. 

During the past year, we continued to enhance our safety standards on a number 
of fronts. As required by Congress, we issued a final rule applying our safety stand- 
ards to intrastate highway shipments of hazardous materials. This rule requires 
intrastate hazardous materials highway shippers and carriers to comply with the 
same standards as interstate transporters, thus providing the public with a uniform 



Digitized by 



Google 



standard based upon the material being transported, not upon whether the ship- 
ment crosses a State line. The rule also contains common-sense provisions that rec- 
ognize the needs of small businesses, farmers, and others by including important 
exceptions that do not have a significant impact on safety. Under a 'materials of 
trade" provision, small quantities of hazardous materials may be transported by 
landscape!?, exterminators, and others with minimal Federal regulation. These 
shipments, however, may be subject to State or local requirements. 

We also worked to improve the safety of hazardous materials transportation by 
air. Working with the Federal Aviation Administration after the ValuJet crash last 
Spring, we banned the carriage of oxygen generators as cargo aboard passenger-car- 
rying aircraft. Moreover, we exceeded a National Transportation Safety Board rec- 
ommendation by proposing to prohibit the carriage of oxidizers on passenger-carry- 
ing aircraft and in inaccessible compartments on cargo aircraft. Very soon we plan 
to issue a supplemental notice further analyzing the need to prohibit the carnage 
of oxidizers aboard passenger-carrying aircraft in Class B and C cargo compart- 
ments. 

On the international front, we also are pursuing strong, uniform standards. This 
provides our international neighbors and Americans overseas with the same level 
of safety they enjoy here, and promotes trade for U.S. businesses by removing incon- 
sistent packaging, labeling, and other requirements from the international transpor- 
tation system. For example, we recently published a final rule to make our regula- 
tions consistent with certain United Nations Recommendations on the Transport of 
Dangerous Goods. We plan to continue working with Mexico and Canada on the de- 
velopment of compatible regulations, and our objective is to have fully developed, 
three-nation standards by 2001. 

ENSURING THAT PEOPLE UNDERSTAND OUR SAFETY STANDARDS AND KNOW HOW TO 

COMPLY WITH THEM 

Maintaining strong safety standards is an important first step. These standards 
are useless, however, if shippers and carriers do not understand them or do not 
know how to ensure that they are in compliance with the regulations. This is espe- 
cially true in hazardous materials transportation, because many companies are 
small and ship hazardous materials infrequently, perhaps only once or twice per 
year. This may lead to a hazardous material being recklessly loaded into an un- 
marked box, providing carriers, inspectors, or emergency respondera with no way of 
knowing that a potentially dangerous material is present. Because of the real threat 
posed by undeclared shipments of hazardous materials, we are committed to invest- 
ing resources to inform shippers and carriers about our safety standards and to help 
them stay in compliance with those standards. 

Following the tragic ValuJet accident last year, which appears to have been 
caused by an undeclared shipment of hazardous materials, we enhanced our out- 
reach efforts in aviation. We distributed millions of copies of a brochure explaining 
what materials cannot be brought on board an aircraft by passengers. We are also 
producing an awareness training video and a training module to promote compli- 
ance by entities who offer or transport hazardous materials by air. 

In our reauthorization bill, we are proposing to allow States to use up to 25 per- 
cent of their hazardous material grant rands to assist small businesses with regu- 
latory compliance. We are upgrading our Hazardous Materials Information System 
to allow the public easier access to hazardous materials transportation information. 
At the same time, we are expanding our Hazardous Materials Information Center 
to more effectively and expeditiously answer questions from the public. We are con- 
tinually upgrading our Hazardous Materials Safety Internet site to provide better 
access to a vast array of information, including copies of rules, upcoming training 
classes provided by the Transportation Safety institute, and general information on 
the program, including information on how to contact us with questions or concerns. 

STRONG ENFORCEMENT AND STOPPING ILLEGAL SHIPMENTS 

Although outreach is a valuable tool for enhancing compliance, there will always 
be people who either refuse or neglect to comply with our safety standards. Con- 
sequently, we strongly support an aggressive enforcement program. 

With the support of the President and Congress, we obtained and have moved 
rapidly to fill fifteen new hazmat inspector positions. We established a RSPA Haz- 
ardous Materials Safety Regional Office in Atlanta, a major hub of hazardous mate- 
rials activity. Last summer, we conducted joint inspections with FAA at aviation re- 
pair stations. 

With respect to undeclared hazardous materials shipments, our reauthorization 
proposal specifically authorizes DOT enforcement personnel to open packages that 



Digitized by 



Google 



most likely contain hazardous materials, take samples sufficient for analysis of ap- 
parently hazardous materials, analyze the samples, and prohibit further transpor- 
tation when an imminent hazard exists until the hazardous qualities of the material 
have been determined. Our proposal also would authorize DOT to issue emergency 
orders when there is a situation involving a significant risk of death, personal in- 
jury, or harm to the environment. Finally, it would provide for judicial review of 
final agency actions by U.S. Courts of Appeal, not Federal district courts, and thus 
clarify that new trials are not authorized. 

OTHER PROPOSALS 

Our bill seeks authority to enter into grants, cooperative agreements, and other 
transactions to conduct training, planning, research, and other activities that en- 
hance hazardous materials safety. This proposal will improve our ability to develop 
and sustain long-term partnerships on a variety of important issues. Our bill also 
seeks to change the term "exemption" to "special permit." We grant "exemptions" 
to our regulations where the applicant demonstrates that an alternative device or 
system will provide a level of safety that is equivalent to the underlying regulations. 
The term "special permit" more accurately reflects this procedure. In addition, we 
are proposing to change the renewal period for these permits from two to four years, 
saving substantial paper work for botn government and industry. 

CONCLUSION 

RSPA is committed to working with all segments of the hazardous materials com- 
munity to prevent deaths, injuries, and property damage, and to safeguard our envi- 
ronment. We are committed to developing and maintaining strong regulatory stand- 
ards, conducting outreach to raise awareness of those standards, and conducting 
vigorous enforcement to ensure that violators and illegal shipments are stopped. At 
the Federal, State and local levels, we continue to strengthen existing programs and 
cultivate new programs that bring us closer to achieving our goal — improved safety 
in the transportation of hazardous materials. Thank you, and I would be pleased 
to answer any questions. 

Senator Wyden. We are very pleased that our chair is here, and 
would want her to comment if she wishes. 

STATEMENT OF HON. KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON, U.S. SENATOR 

FROM TEXAS 

Senator Hutchison. Thank you, Mr. Wyden. I want to say first 
of all how much I appreciate Senator Wyden taking the reins this 
morning, because I am in action on the floor. We've had a bit of 
a delay, and so I wanted to come back over. But I want you to stay 
in the chair and I want to thank you for the interest you have in 
surface transportation. 

I think you are just one of our very best Members on this issue. 
You and I share a great interest in rail and surface transportation, 
as well as the merchant marine that affects both of our States so 
much, so thank you very, very much. 

Let me also say that because of my experience on the National 
Transportation Safety Board hazardous materials safety has been 
something on my agenda for a lone time. I remember— of course, 
we all remember the ValuJet crash and the part that hazardous 
materials played in that. 

But I also remember a truck that overturned in Houston, TX my 
home State that released hazardous, toxic fumes. I remember so 
well that people's first reaction to smelling these fumes was to open 
the windows, when in fact that was exactly the wrong thine to do. 

According to the NTSB, we learned that what we should have 
been saying on the radio is, shut off the air conditioners and keep 
the windows closed and try to keep the toxic fumes from coming 
inside. 



Digitized by 



Google 



8 

These are the things we learn that we need to put out there, and 
we certainly are pleased with the general record of transporting 
hazardous materials. We have taken such care really and we have 
had very few accidents. Now we just have to fine-tune and make 
hazardous materials transportation safer then we'll reach the point 
where we have the fewest number of accidents that can harm peo- 
ple. Education efforts, as well as the safety precautions, are very 
important. 

I have a statement that I will submit for the record, but I would 
like to hear as much of your testimony as possible. 

So thank you very much, and thank you, Mr. Chairman, and if 
you would proceed. 

[The prepared statement of Senator Hutchison follows:] 

Prepared Statement of Hon. Kay Bailey Hutchison, U.S. Senator From Texas 

Annually more than a billion tons of hazardous materials — an estimated 500,000 
hazardous materials shipments daily — are transported by land, sea, and air in the 
United States. The shipped materials are used in thousands of commercial manufac- 
tured products including chlorine for water treatment, ammonia for fertilizers, plas- 
tics, home siding, battery casings, leather finishes, fireproofing agents for textiles, 
and gasoline. The transport of hazardous materials is essential for our Nation's in- 
dustrial economy. 

The hazardous materials industry has a notable safety record, in part due to this 
intergovernmental cooperation, and also because of the safety efforts of companies 
involved in transporting hazardous materials. There are over 1.5 million State and 
local emergency response and enforcement personnel in the field dealing with haz- 
ardous materials issues. 

On average, 8 to 15 deaths were attributed annually to releases of hazardous ma- 
terials in transportation. Most of these fatalities involved truck accidents in which 
petroleum products ignited. In fact, until 1996, there had not been a single aviation 
hazardous shipment related fatality since before 1987. 

Of course, tne exception was the 1996 Valujet crash. Undeclared dangerous oxy- 
gen canisters were loaded into the cargo hull of a Valuiet aircraft. The canisters ig- 
nited, a raging fire ensued and the plane crashed into the Florida Everglades killing 
all aboard. Aside from not being declared, the canisters also were not packaged or 
marked according to Federal regulations. The Department of Transportation has 
tightened aviation hazardous materials rules and I look forward to hearing testi- 
mony on the department's efforts. 

At today's hearing, I would like to hear the witnesses' testimony on the state of 
safety in Hazardous material transport, the Clinton Administration s proposed reau- 
thorization proposal, and mostly, what this subcommittee needs to consider when 
drafting hazardous material transportation program reauthorization. I value your 
input and look forward to receiving your testimony. 

Senator Wyden. Thank you, and it is a pleasure to have a chance 
to be able to team up with you again, Madam Chair, and this is 
an excellent hearing, and I hope I am pronouncing the name of our 
next witness correctly, Mr. Robert Chipkevich. 

Mr. Chipkevich is Chair of the Hazardous Materials/Pipeline Di- 
vision, Office of Surface Transportation of NTSB, and please pro- 
ceed. 

STATEMENT OF ROBERT CHIPKEVICH, CHIEF, HAZARDOUS 
MATERIALS/PIPELINE DIVISION, OFFICE OF SURFACE 
TRANSPORTATION, NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY 
BOARD 

Mr. Chipkevich. Thank you. Good morning Madam Chairwoman 
and Senator Wyden. It is a pleasure to appear today to discuss 
safety issues related to the transportation of hazardous materials. 



Digitized by 



Google 



9 

I would like to discuss today four areas where the Board believes 
additional action should be taken to enhance the safe transpor- 
tation of hazardous materials. Those areas include testing require- 
ments for tank cars to identify structural defects before sudden and 
complete failure; rollover protection requirements for highway 
cargo tanks; crashworthiness of front heads on cargo tanks used to 
transport liquified flammable gases; and potentially lethal nonflam- 
mable gases, and practices, procedures, and training to identify 
undeclared shipments of hazardous materials. 

In 1992, the Board investigated two structural tank car failures, 
January 18, 1992 in Dragon, MS, and March 25, 1992 in Kettle 
Falls, WA. 

Because of those structural tank car failures, the Safety Board 
concluded that a special investigation on the inspection and testing 
of railroad tank cars was necessary. The Board concluded that the 
hydrostatic tests and visual inspections of tank cars at arbitrary in- 
tervals were not effective in detecting structural defects before sud- 
den and complete failure. 

The Safety Board recommended that the FRA, RSPA, and the in- 
dustry work together to evaluate nondestructive testing techniques 
to determine how such techniques can best be applied for periodic 
testing and inspection of all tank cars that transport hazardous 
materials, and that the FRA then develop requirements for the 
periodic inspection and testing of tank cars to help ensure the de- 
tection of cracks before they propagate to critical length. We are 
pleased that the FRA, RSPA, and the industry have agreed and are 
cofunding several research projects in this area. 

Between January and May 1991, the Safety Board investigated 
seven highwav accidents in which DOT specification MC 306 and 
312 cargo tanks overturned and hazardous materials were released 
through fittings rather than a breached tank. 

As a result of a special investigation on cargo tank rollover pro- 
tection, the Safety Board found deficiencies in cargo tank rollover 
protection requirements. In March 1992 the Safety Board rec- 
ommended that the FHWA and RSPA improve the performance of 
rollover protection devices on bulk liquid cargo tanks. 

Although FHWA has advised they are evaluating cargo tank 
crash modeling, we are concerned about progress on this issue and 
we have asked FHWA for additional information about the models. 

The Safety Board is also concerned about the crashworthiness of 
front heads on cargo tanks used to transport liquified flammable 
gases and potentially lethal nonflammable compressed gases. On 
July 27, 1994 in White Plains, NY, a tractor cargo tank semitrailer 
loaded with 9,200 gallons of propane hit a bridge column, fractur- 
ing the front head and releasing propane. When ignited, a fire ball 
rose 200 to 300 feet in the air. 

The tank was propelled northward about 300 feet and landed on 
a frame house, engulfing it in fire. The driver was killed and 23 
people injured. 

Because of not only the White Plains, NY accident but several 
previous accidents, including one that occurred April 29, 1975, in 
Eagle Pass, TX that resulted in 51 burn injuries and 16 fatalities, 
the Safety Board again called for action to improve the crash- 
worthiness of cargo tanks. 



Digitized by 



Google 



10 

In its response, the FHWA agreed with the Safety Board that the 
crashworthiness of the front head of cargo tanks used to transport 
these cargos needed farther evaluation, and that it would request 
funds for this project. 

ValuJet Flight 592 crashed on May 11, 1996, shortly after take- 
off from Miami International Airport. Five cardboard boxes being 
shipped as company material containing as many as 144 chemical 
oxygen generators, some with unexpended oxidizer cores, and three 
wheel tire assemblies had been loaded in the forward cargo com- 
partment of Flight 592 shortly before departure. 

Chemical oxygen generators, when transported as cargo, are con- 
sidered a hazardous material and regulated under the DOT regula- 
tions classified as oxidizers. The Safety Board believes that even 
though safety recommendations were issued, that the practices, 
procedures, and training of personnel involved in the identification 
and handling of hazardous materials remains inadequate. 

We also remain concerned that although the FAA and RSPA 
have banned oxygen generators from passenger airliners and have 
proposed a ban on other oxidizers, no action has yet been taken on 
the recommendation we issued 9 years ago to install smoke detec- 
tors and fire suppression equipment in cargo compartments that 
did not currently have them. 

These recommendations, issued after the Nashville accident, 
were closed by the Board and classified as unacceptable action. 

Last November, the airline industry announced it would volun- 
tarily retrofit existing Class D cargo compartments with smoke de- 
tectors. Madam Chairwoman, we are carefully watching to see if 
this retrofiting will take place in a timely fashion. 

That completes my statement. I will be pleased to answer any 
questions, and I would ask that my written testimony be accepted 
in full. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Chipkevich follows:] 

Prepared Statement of Robert Chipkevich, Chief, Hazardous Materials/Pipe- 
line Division, Office of Surface Transportation, National Transportation 
Safety Board 

Good morning Madame Chairwoman and Members of the Committee. It is a 

gleasure to appear today to discuss safety issues related to the transportation of 
azardous materials. 

The Safety Board has been concerned over the transportation of hazardous mate- 
rials in all modes of transportation for many years. Over the past 20 years, however, 
we have seen many improvements made to enhance the safe transportation of haz- 
ardous materials. Some of those improvements include: 

• enhanced packaging requirements, such as head shields and top and bottom 
shelf couplers on railroad tank cars carrying the most dangerous cargoes to reduce 
the likelihood of head punctures and loss of product, and thermal protection to allow 
time to evacuate areas around accident sites before tanks violently rupture when 
those tank cars are involved in fires; 

• improved inspection and repair requirements for highway cargo tanks; and 

• improved requirements for communicating information about the hazards posed 
by cargoes transported, including better shipping descriptions, 24-hour telephone 
numbers for contacting shippers, initial information about potential hazards, public 
safety, and emergency response actions. 

I would like to discuss, however, four areas where the Board believes that addi- 
tional action should be taken to enhance the safe transportation of hazardous mate- 
rials. Those areas include: testing requirements for tank cars to identify structural 
defects before sudden and complete failure; rollover protection requirements for 
highway cargo tanks; crashworthiness of front heads on cargo tanks used to trans- 
port liquefied flammable gases and potentially lethal nonflammable gases; and prac- 



Digitized by 



Google 



11 

tkes, procedure s, and trsanin a j to identify undeclared hazardous material* ship' 



On January 18> 1992, in Dragon, Mississippi, a railroad tank ear carrying 
than 30,000 gallons of liquefied propane literally polled apart aa a train began to 



move from a aiding ante a noun track. All 30,000 gallons of propane were metantav 
* aaeAFoT •••■■- 



n cou ar r Tokened. Following ignition of propane gases, the entire area wee engulfed 
in fire. The Safety Board's investigation found that a crack that had twittered an 
the inside of the tank had grown to 21 inches long before the tank eatastmphsesily' 
failed. IW acekfc at inspection and testing of 108 tank cars of the same design *W 
dosed thai 40 of these tank cars had cracks in the same location. 

A second accident occurred on March 25, 1992, in Kettle Pells* Wesfetngtttu, in> 
vohring a nulroed tank car carrying 13,000 gallons of sulfuric acid. The tana: car 
cracked at the bottom center of the tank along a circnmferentiai weid, resulting ue 
the release of all the sulfuric acid. There wee metallurgical evidence at * sreesssttear 

j*tt£tim* eon* 



; in the area of the failure. The tank car had just passed visual uutgrnaann* i 
a trydroatatic test the previous month, and it was car ry tag its first Used *f km 
since the inspection and teat. The tank car failed suk the train began us owes 




i of these structura l tank car failures, the Safety Skimrti anndneteit a i 
_ ion on the inspection and testing a£ railroad tank cars. The Suae 
duded that hydrosta tic testa and visual inapectiene nf tank cars ec eentcraey aster- 
vals were net effec tive iu detecting structural defect* in wanted tenit car r**m* m 
in b Vtrrtaig defects at high stress areas where <tJih «0* ir <*3s*r <&m$MW<auk mm 
\Xm tanks befime andmrn ami eamqitstm failure 

' that the use of acoustic enussinn, tsji^eesuiav anit ***** fum*- 
mothiMht, if auuiieft at eonrnornee interval* ae*e*t in 4anreejr- 
. csuict detect eaauna; trsex* gnatr ft* cetaecmpHuc faun** 4L myi 
r. smtirinnei ataeacga wee seen**! •» <fe&o?!nra* oie ***£ m*fk&m 
pes cinatesms amt sne ap^srnurrnz* nepee&nn: ;ni*r>ei#. T5ce 

_ ^_ ^ t j MC .^ o^gj^ feanmurf Atmimrf^cn^rtit '^IfceV »ace £e> 

Jtanaxamjrscjsn "&S£&3k». vut Jhtmxuauw \< &aaertam 

^marxse oie&cuce «*t Hut Omunax kugu*&t ***** •*#- 

mnr eesririi'-.me ^essrnunxesv »<r£ te»r?nuie ik»* nuot *>aatme|iey 

: ir jsmnfir lesfttnr «tt neneasnn: o* al. i«mc can* -Km; vsuutpm. 

: isec iier MJt emt &SF& *aer -oeMee? -ffqumm**!'* fcr 

■c leeonqe; -n* <2emc isms 2tac -two: «neu«i ^toe «aseeseMi w5 

^-acsreusn. ens/>r. 

35i*. iKKHfc *D£ 10* rucnm*} «** ^enwec attic eoc- 

• -at eeeaueae www j* nnntowt rttepeeuor *cbc ieac jewarwieyee /ftr "«*n* 

■has; ■ ii ii i n veeoewct: pwyeeae. ^m Sep^&anaor ZU JWT tee JS3Fjt\ 

'bsl 5ue» Jlnec aril inejwu* ]<k -reiAeoiuv ^ ftts'^eusg 

iinssfiieww n: iame «n» e^ tee i*e wf «aewew«cucUAe 

laaw: ar nwa«eUof: nuen^ae- eesaue&c HmHejr nimmsy 

^&av Jsaerc nee aawec tot Wrf* <wr yerejde: uyoaiee -ec i^ yw r a aweir 
{bnieu Tks*%mM#f«m\M* L-&L-&L vacuum 

. . -_. . laffl lee fctf&cu beetrc mMfiei ejeu f " fl^n*ML* acc- 

llt3r eevoaitaUew JIT iM. tr'sTL iJit ceqejt i^ae^ dMera*rsfcC ^^c 

titmugp neenfejrr <eeiiiwwi wr fin >rsy «er. jsu ef 

. ^he iuaj9nsea> -cansL j^eaa^ tw eet eejo<aaec eistc- roJeaeer yranenew oecaa* 

. iae* auaosfr wf leer «&*«** ji. avwreat emotus* roiewer ^im*ecuui r a unr 

aawee aees tot me&ym* of IKtT ft^pajKenea^ Rs^ero«as: 

taertigtifa^ee. 0-' tot roleHwr wa^cUur 

>ienwr am 





. mt. ca^gc iMSyt rolenwr yra^rUiiT- toe tMuea^ 
_ rcee*Mir enmirfee nw]iiinenieiiif Ui J£*rcr 

M.U9KL. tear beietA jeewc lee a eaeafeaoec; ton: tot ^«ewfm Hai^Mei> *Qmm«nreT»ir 
(FHaVAj, evslcs leer eeeeftawwe #5 KSfv. *oe>ru**t tee |wrii»raaajex a:' ml eii w aen*«c 
ieror «eeoa> i*a*»t i^ eaoee^eer aac ^oaiyr^s; tot *aro» u»a: 
a ces w e nMTA^ -t -roW^rr jeraMfO^^eae; toer jgnmrsfitie; p*z 
» ier enfaawe^ jjroi*«ne»y -o*>«***» toe: 4ee fireew" ai. iak rfejiaeeTiiif 




m« tot ^vivnannrfifirt^iii" ui. Afei 1l . iiHal , Uh ^JMw^. 

oana/u*4r' ue^euj^ *ar ic* »ur«t cutter. iau«k«b^ Tan- beiov^ 
aa*ei« |«rkaj««»t, mii u^^ «*»i* ^ac ii*N gee^ac f*HMrA <er annilinaa 



Digitized by 



Google 



12 

The Safety Board is also concerned about the crashworthiness of front heads on 
cargo tanks used to transport liquefied flammable gases and potentially lethal non- 
flammable compressed gases. On July 27, 1994, in White Plains, New York, a trac- 
tor cargo-tank semitrailer loaded with 9,200 gallons of propane hit a bridge column, 
fracturing the front head and releasing propane. When ignited, a fireball rose 200 
to 300 feet in the air. The tank was propelled northward about 300 feet and landed 
on a frame house, engulfing it in flames. The driver was killed and 23 people were 
injured. 

Following a derailment in Crestview, Florida in 1979 that resulted in the failure 
of several rail tank cars carrying liquefied compressed Rases, the Safety Board is- 
sued an intermodal safety recommendation to RSPA asking that it expand its re- 
search into new approaches for controlling pressurized liauefied flammable gas re- 
leases from breached tanks. (1-79-12) In 1991, 12 years after issuance of our safety 
recommendation, RSPA advised the Safety Board that the research program had 
been canceled, but that research had not yielded any viable alternatives to railroad 
shelf-couplers, headshields, and thermal protection, all which had proven effective 
in preventing product release. The Safety Board agreed that rail tank car improve- 
ments had reduced the number of catastrophic failures of pressurized tank cars, but 
reminded RSPA that the safety recommendation was intermodal and that RSPA 
had not addressed this problem as it related to highway cargo tanks. 

To further support research, the Safety Board advised RSPA about 4 highway ac- 
cidents it had investigated involving the failure of cargo tanks carrying LPG. Those 
accidents occurred April 29, 1975, at Eagle Pass, Texas, resulting in 51 burn inju- 
ries and 16 fatalities; April 6, 1987, in Lawrenceville, New Jersey, resulting in 7 
burn injuries; December 23, 1988, in Memphis, Tennessee, resulting in 23 burn inju- 
ries, 9 fatalities; and January 20, 1992, in Crawford, Mississippi, resulting in 4 burn 
injuries and 3 fatalities. RSPA did not respond, and on June 29, 1994, the Safety 
Recommendation I-7&-12 was "Closed— Unacceptable Action." 

Because of the severe accident in White Plaines, New York, the Safety Board 
again called for action to improve the crashworthiness of cargo tanks. On November 
27, 1995, the Safety Board asked FHWA to cooperate with RSPA in studying meth- 
ods and developing standards to improve the crashworthiness of front heads on 
cargo tanks used to transport liquefied flammable gases and potentially lethal non- 
flammable compressed gases (H-95-35). In responding to the safety recommenda- 
tion on April 10, 1996, the FHWA agreed with the Safety Board that the crash- 
worthiness of the front end of cargo tanks used to transport these cargoes needed 
further evaluation. It stated that it would request funds for this project auring fiscal 
year 1997. On June 24, 1996, Safety Recommendation H-95-35 was classified 
^)pen — Acceptable Response." 

Finally, Valujet flight 592 crashed on May 11, 1996, shortly after takeoff from 
Miami international Airport, Florida. Both pilots, the three flight attendants, and 
all 105 passengers were killed. Before the accident, the flightcrew reported to air 
traffic that it was experiencing smoke in the cabin and cockpit. 

Factual information provides that five cardboard boxes containing as many as 144 
chemical oxygen generators, some with unexpended oxidizer cores, and three wheel/ 
tire assemblies, had been loaded in the forward cargo compartment of flight 592 
shortly before departure. These items were being snipped as company material 
(COMAT). Additionally, some passenger baggage and U.S. mail were loaded into the 
forward cargo compartment. 

Shortly before the departure of flight 592, a driver from the SabreTech Inc., main- 
tenance facility at the Miami airport delivered the COMAT (the boxes and wheel/ 
tire assemblies) to the ValuJet lead ramp agent for transport to ValuJet facilities 
in Atlanta. (SabreTech operated an FAA-approved aircraft repair and maintenance 
facility at the Miami airport and had performed renovation work for ValuJet.) A 
SabreTech shipping ticket, dated May 10, 1996, for the five boxes of chemical oxy- 
gen generators, was also offered to the ramp agent. The generators were identified 
on the shipping ticket as "Oxy Canisters [sic] "Empty"." 

The ramp agent, who was busy offloading the aircraft from its previous flight, 
signed the shipping ticket for the COMAT and instructed the SabreTech driver to 
place the items on an empty baggage cart. The ramp agent stated that he asked 
the first officer of flight 592 for approval to load the COMAT on the aircraft. After 
the ramp agent and the first officer estimated the weight of the COMAT, the bag- 
gage and mail were loaded into the cargo compartment, and then the three wheel/ 
tire assemblies were loaded, followed by the five boxes with the generators. The 
boxes with the generators were loaded on top of or immediately adjacent to the 
wheel/tire assemblies. 

Chemical oxygen generators, when transported as cargo, are considered a hazard- 
ous material regulated under the Department of Transportation hazardous mate- 



Digitized by 



Google 



13 

rials remilatione (49 CFB Farts 171-130) and are classified as oxidizers. These same 
renlalaaBS guyun the psfks giag , l a hrHn g, and shipping requirement* for tranapor- 

Akhoagh the origin of the ia-ft^hi fire an board flight 592 has not yet been deter- 
mined, the ^presence of the cheaneal ezyaen gmuat ors in the forward cargo com- 
partment ol the aircraJt created an extremely dangeiuMS condition. Tne chemical de- 
coinposttiott reaction of an oxidizer each aa sodxam chlorate in a confined space will 
generate heat, and the amjnjtn reankiaa from the reaction will sustain and intensify 
a fire. Also, the ignition te mp e ratu re of ordinary nmteriaJs is lowered in an oxygen- 
rich enriraeanenC. 

The failure to prop e rly identify and prop e rly package hazardous materials had re- 
sulted in other accidents and i 



For example, on No vem ber 3, 1973, a Fan American World Airways, Inc., Boeing 
707-321C crashed at Login International Airport, Boston, Massachusetts, tiffing afl 
three crewmembers. Thirty minutes alter this cargo flight departed John P. Ken- 
nedy Airport, New York, the flightcrew reported smoke in the cockpit, and the flight 
was diverted to Logan, where it crashed short of the runway. The Safety Board de- 
termined that dense smoke in the cockpit seriously i mpair ed the fhghtcrew's vision 
and ability to function effectively during the emergency. Although the source of the 
smoke could not be established conclusively, the Board believed that spontaneous 
chfsnical reaction between leaking nitric acid (a corrosive and oxidizing material), 
which was improperly packaged and stowed, and the improper sawdust packing sur- 
rounding the arias package, initiated the accident sequence. A contributing factor 
was found to be s general lack of compliance with existing regulations governing 
the transportation of hazardous materials and the inadequacy of government sur- 
veillance. Further, the Safety Board concluded that most personnel handling the 
hazardous material s hip ment were inadequately trained. 

On August 10, 1966, s McDonnell Douglas DC-10-40, operating as s non- 
scheduled flight from Honolulu, Hawaii, to Chicajm, Illinois, with sn en route stop 
in Los Anpeles, California, arrived without incident at Chicago's (XHare Inter- 
national Airport. After the passengers and crew had deplaned, a fire, which was 
found to have initiated in a carno compartment, burned through the cabin floor, 
spread rapidly throughout the entire cabin, and destroyed the airplane. 

The 8eJety Board concluded that the fire had been initiated as a result of s me- 
chanic's improper handling of a chemical oxygen generator associated with a 
sesthark tem p o rari ly stored in the compartment. The Safety Board learned as s con- 
sequence of this incident that some air carriers were not aware that solid-state pas- 
senger supplemental oxygen generators were capable of ge n era t ing high tempera- 
tures and were classified as hazardous materials when carried as company material 
in cargo compartments. ConseojuenUy, some air carriers were not taking the re- 
onired precautions when shipping oxygen generators in their airplanes. Following 
this incident, the PAA promptly notified all domestic air carriers and foreign air- 
worthiness authorities of the circumstances of the incident and reminded them that 
oxygen renerstors are oxidizers and t her e fo re are classified as hazardous materials, 
which should be packaged and stowed securely. 

On February 3, 1968, American Airlines flight 132, s DC-9^83, had an in-flitfbt 
fire while en route to Nashville Metropolitan Airport, Tennessee, from Dallas/Fort 
Worth International Airport, Texas. As the aircraft was on a final instrument land- 
ing system approach, a flight attendant and a deadheading first officer notified the 
cockpit crew of smoke in the passenger cabin. Tne Safety Board found that hydrogen 
peroxide solution (an oxidizer) and a sodium orthosflkate-based mixture had been 
shipped and loaded into the mid cargo compartment of the airplane. Tne s hip me n t 
was improperly packaged, and it was not identified aa a hazardous material After 
the l rjrdrogen peroxide leaked from its container, a fire started in the cargo compart- 
. The fire eventually breached the cargo compartment, and the passenger 



floor over the midcarg? coomartment became hot and soft. Fortunately, the aircraft 
landed without further incident, and the 120 passengers and six crewmembers 
safely evacuated the aircraft. 

Aa a result of the accident on American Airlines flight 132, the Safety Board 
stated that in addition to proper park aging of hazardous materials, the sale trans- 
portation of hazardous nationals de p ends on sufficient information to identity the 
materials and the hazards presented during transportation. Accordingly, the Board 
noted that both shippers and carriers had a responsibility to determine if materials 
offered for tiansportation were hazardous and in proper condition to ensure their 
sale transportation. 

The 8afety Board stressed in its report of the American Airlines incident the im- 
portance for air carriers to have effective policies, practices, and training; to i 

for uaaaclered or oi 



Digitized by 



Google 



14 

materials that are offered for transport. However, acceptance of undeclared and un- 
authorized shipments of hazardous materials continues to pose a significant threat 
to passenger and cargo aircraft. Consequently, the Safety Board believes that the 




require all air carriers to revise their procedures as necessary. 

The Safety Board has yet to complete action on the ValuJet accident that occurred 
near Miami. However, as a result of our investigation, the Safety Board issued a 
safety recommendation letter to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) that 
called for urgent actions to prevent similar accidents in the future. Those rec- 
ommendations state: 

Immediately evaluate the practices of and training provided by all air carriers 
for accepting passenger baggage and freight shipments (including company ma- 
terials) ana lor identifying undeclared or unauthorized hazardous materials 
that are offered for transport. This evaluation should apply to any person, in- 
cluding ramp personnel, who accepts baggage or cargo for transport on pas- 
senger and cargo aircraft. (A-96-25) 

Require air carriers, based on the evaluation performed under Safety Rec- 
ommendation A-96-25, to revise their practices and training for accepting pas- 
senger baggage and freight shipments and for identifying undeclared or unau- 
thorized hazardous materials that are offered for transport. (A-96-26) 

In a response dated July 16, 1996, the FAA agreed with the recommendations and 
stated that it had initiated an immediate evaluation of air carrier hazardous mate- 
rials manuals and training programs to determine if methods are included to iden- 
tify undeclared or unauthorized hazardous materials. On March 24, 1997, the FAA 
Erovided an update on its response to these recommendations. It noted that the FAA 
ad completed its first phase of its evaluation and had reviewed 215 air carriers 
certified under 14 CFR Parts 121, 125, and 135. During the evaluation, the FAA 
said it reviewed FAA-approved air carrier manuals to ascertain what information 
is currently provided to prompt air carrier employees to recognize suspicious cargo 
or baggage and to ask additional questions before rejecting or accepting that cargo 
or baggage. The FAA said that it had initiated phase 2 of the evaluation which con- 
sists of followup field G5 inspections of those carriers to verify that the air carriers 
which have procedures in their manual are following those procedures. Based on the 
outcome of phase 2, the FAA noted that it would have all the necessary information 
to recommend appropriate actions to correct any noted deficiencies and to address 
the issues outlined in the safety recommendations. 

The Safety Board is concerned, based on the facts developed during the ValuJet 
flight 592 accident investigation, that the practices, procedures, and training of the 
personnel involved in the identification ana handling of hazardous materials remain 
inadequate. 

Even more so, Madame Chairwoman, we are concerned that, although the FAA 
has banned oxygen generators from passenger airliners and has proposed a ban on 
other oxidizers, no action has yet been taken on recommendations we issued nine 
years ago to install smoke detectors and fire suppression equipment in cargo com- 
partments that do not currently have them. 

Those recommendations, issued after the Nashville accident, were closed by the 
Board and classified "Unacceptable Action." Last November, the airline industry an- 
nounced it would voluntarily retrofit existing Class D compartments with smoke de- 
tectors. We are watching carefully to see if this retrofitting will take place in a time- 
ly fashion. 

The fact still remains, Madame Chairwoman, that pilots taking off today in air- 
craft having Class D cargo compartments have no more ability to be alerted of the 
existence of a fire in that compartment, much less the ability to suppress it, than 
did the crew of ValuJet flight 592, or indeed, the crew of the American Airlines air- 
plane in 1988. 

Madam Chairwoman, that completes my statement, and I will be pleased to re- 
spond to any questions you or the Committee may have. 

Senator Wyden. Thank you. 

As you can tell, we are especially hectic this morning. Senator 
Burns has been kind enough to come and relieve me for a stint, be- 
cause I have to head for the floor as well. So there is a bipartisan 
effort here to try to be sensitive to these important hazardous ma- 
terials. And we appreciate your bearing with us. 



Digitized by 



Google 



15 

Senator Burns, we would now move to Ms. Charlotte Lane as our 
next witness, the Chair of the Public Service Commission of West 
Virginia, Charleston, WV. 

Ms. Lane, please excuse mv bad manners. I, like our chair, Sen- 
ator Hutchison, will also be roDowing up. And my apologies for the 
hectic nature of the morning. 

STATEMENT OF CHARLOTTE R. LANE, CHAIRMAN, PUBLIC 
SERVICE COMMISSION OF WEST VIRGINIA 

Ms. Lane. Good morning, Senators. Thank you for this oppor- 
tunity to appear before you today. 

My name is Charlotte R. Lane, and I am the newly appointed 
chairman of the West Virginia Public Service Commission. This is 
my 7th day on the job, and I am happy to come to Washington to 
talk to you about this important program for the State of West Vir- 
ginia and all of the States in this country. 

Senator Hutchison. They are certainly breaking you in fast. 
[Laughter.] 

Ms. Lane. Yes. 

I am here today on behalf of the West Virginia Commission and 
the State of West Virginia, because we are one of four States ad- 
ministering a uniform hazardous materials registration and per- 
mitting program. That program is the embodiment of a compromise 
between the States and industry, and was mandated by Congress 
in the Hazardous Materials Transportation Uniform Safety Act of 
1990. 

The West Virginia Public Service Commission has historically ex- 
ercised its safety jurisdiction in cooperation with respective Federal 
agencies in the areas of railroads, gas pipelines and motor carriers. 
Our State's geographic location, its highways in terms of topo- 
graphical diversity, and its concentration of extrication chemical 
ana related industries all combine to intensify our concern with 
safe and efficient transportation, especially in the hazmat arena. 

In 1990, Congress recognized in HMTUSA the need for uniform- 
ity among the States in registered and permitting carriers and 
shippers of hazardous materials. It directed the U.S. Secretary of 
Transportation to form a working group of State and local officials 
who, in consultation with the industry, would develop the proce- 
dures from which a national program would be modelled. 

In 1992, the National Governors' Association and the National 
Council of State Legislators, acting on behalf of the Secretary, con- 
vened the working group which became the Alliance for Uniform 
Hazmat Transportation Procedures. The Alliance consisted of 30 
governmental officials, representing 22 States who, after substan- 
tial input by affected industry ana citizen groups, submitted rec- 
ommendations to the Secretary. 

Importantly, the recommendations represented a consensus of 
the hazmat industry and State and local governments, and was the 
product of nearly 2 years of meetings and negotiations. Based on 
the Alliance recommendations, a 2-year pilot program was chosen 
as the vehicle by which four States would test the recommended 
procedures. I am pleased to say that West Virginia was among 
these pilot States, along with Ohio, Minnesota, and Nevada. 



Digitized by 



Google 



16 

In our State as well as the others, it was first necessary to seek 
legislation to implement the pilot program. I think that the valu- 
able assistance of the West Virginia Motor Truck Association in our 
effort to obtain the necessary legislation speaks volumes in terms 
of the support among the private sector for the uniform program. 
As you may know, the West Virginia Motor Truck Association is an 
affiliate of the American Trucking Association, from whom you will 
be hearing today. 

Between 1993 and 1995, the pilot States implemented a uniform, 
base State program under which hazmat transporters and shippers 
could register and obtain the necessary credentials using the same 
forms and procedures in each State. These industry members also 
benefited from the reciprocity extended between the participating 
States. 

Concurrently, this registration and permitting process allowed us 
to examine carriers' histories of vehicle safety and financial respon- 
sibility. Our staff was able to reach out to many in the hazmat 
transportation sector who were partially and even totally unaware 
of applicable Federal safety regulations. 

On the basis of pilot State experience, the Alliance submitted to 
the Secretary of Transportation a final report, augmenting its origi- 
nal recommendations, and detailing a comprehensive plan for na- 
tional implementation of a uniform hazardous materials transpor- 
tation program. This was the process specifically set forth by Con- 
gress in Section 22 of HMTUSA. 

On July 9, 1996, the Federal Highway Administration com- 
menced the rulemaking, requesting comment on the final report of 
the Alliance. Obviously, the States and industry's hard work had 
paid off. Favorable comments were received from an impressive 
array of supporters from both public and private sectors. I have in- 
cluded a list of those commenting in favor of the uniform program 
in my written testimony to the committee. 

Unfortunately, as of today, I am unable to report to the commit- 
tee any further progress in this effort to implement uniform and 
reciprocal base State requirements for hazardous materials trans- 
porters and shippers. Essentially, since requesting comments on 
the recommended program and receiving substantial support for it, 
the Federal Highway Administration Office of Motor Carriers has 
declined to move forward on this important initiative. 

States and industry have made repeated overtures to advance 
the rulemaking. In fact, members of my staff have participated in 
numerous meetings and discussions with ranking OMC officials 
and industry members who urge agency action. To date, our con- 
cerns have fallen on deaf ears. 

Soon it will be a year since the Alliance recommendations were 
submitted for public comment. It has become clear that OMC will 
not proceed with implementation of the uniform program as man- 
dated in HMTUSA. Instead, the legislation under your consider- 
ation proposes a new Federal registration and permitting system 
for the hazardous materials transporting and shipping industry. 

Meanwhile, West Virginia and the other participating States are 
continuing the uniform program. But this relatively small program 
is in danger of dying on the vine. Without Federal support, and es- 



Digitized by 



Google 



17 

peciallv if a new Federal system is implemented, national expan- 
sion of the uniform program is seriously jeopardized. 

In fact, it is likely that the program in West Virginia, as well as 
in the other participating States, will become the exception rather 
than the rule envisioned by Congress. Thus, this established pro- 
gram even stands to lose necessary local support for its continu- 
ance. 

I am here today to ask this committee to preserve and expand 
the excellent progress already made by the States and industry to 
craft a hazmat program we can all live with. I am here seeking 
your acknowledgement of the unique and creative efforts by States 
and industry to achieve consensus and compromise on national uni- 
formity in hazardous materials transportation. 

I am here asking you to reaffirm support for the national base 
State system, designed by those most affected by its impact, which 
was written into Taw by Congress in 1990. The efforts and suc- 
cesses of the real stakeholders in hazmat safety should not be ig- 
nored or replaced by a new wheel, reinvented in Congress at OMC. 

Most importantly, your acknowledgement of our unprecedented 
consensus— consensus which provides a significant level of comfort 
for States and significant procedural protection for the industry — 
will serve as a green light to other States anxious to join the uni- 
form program. Many of those States are at this very moment sit- 
ting on the sidelines, monitoring this legislation, and exploring 
their alternatives. 

So I urge your consideration of the concerns that will be ex- 
pressed to you today on behalf of the States and industry, and I 
thank you very much for the opportunity to bring to you some of 
the concerns from our perspective in West Virginia. 

Thank you. 

[The prepared statement of Ms. Lane follows:] 

Prepared Statement of Charlotte R. Lane, Chairman, Public Service 
Commission of West Virginia 

Good morning. My name is Charlotte Lane and I am Chairman of the West Vir- 
ginia Public Service Commission. I am here today on behalf of the Commission and 
West Virginia which is one of four states administering a uniform hazardous mate- 
rials registration and permitting program. That program is the embodiment of a 
compromise between the states ana industry, and was mandated by Congress in the 
Hazardous Materials Transportation Uniform Safety Act in 1990 (HMTUSA— Pub. 
L. No. 101-615). 

The West Virginia Public Service Commission has historically exercised its safety 
jurisdiction in cooperation with respective Federal agencies in the areas of railroads, 
gas pipelines and motor carriers. Our state's geographic location, its highways in 
terms of topographical diversity, and its concentration of extraction, chemical and 
related industries all combine to intensify our concern with safe and efficient trans- 
portation, especially in the hazmat arena. 

In 1990 Congress recognized in HMTUSA the need for uniformity among the 
states in registering and permitting carriers and shippers of hazardous materials. 
It directed the U.S. Secretary of Transportation to form a working group of State 
and local officials who, in consultation with industry, would develop the procedures 
from which a national program would be modeled. 

In 1992 the National Governors' Association and the National Conference of State 
Legislators, acting on behalf of the Secretary, convened the working group which be- 
came the Alliance for Uniform Hazmat Transportation Procedures (the Alliance). 
The Alliance consisted of 30 governmental officials representing 22 states who, after 
substantial input by affected industry and citizen groups, submitted recommenda- 
tions to the Secretary. Importantly, the recommendations represented a consensus 



Digitized by 



Google 



18 

of the hazmat industry and State and local governments and was the product of 
nearly 2 years of meetings and negotiations. 

Based on the Alliance recommendations a 2-year pilot program was chosen as the 
vehicle by which four states would test the recommended procedures. I am pleased 
to say that West Virginia was among these pilot states, along with Ohio, Minnesota 
and Nevada. 

In our State as well as the others it was first necessary to seek legislation to im- 

Element the pilot program. I think that the valuable assistance of the West Virginia 
iotor Truck Association in our effort to obtain the necessary legislation speaks vol- 
umes in terms of the support among the private sector for the unifonnprogram. As 
you may know, the West Virginia Motor Truck Association is an affiliate of the 
American Trucking Association from whom you will also be hearing today. 

Between 1993 and 1995 the pilot states implemented a uniform, base State pro- 
gram under which hazmat transporters and snippers could register and obtain the 
necessary credentials using the same forms and procedures in each state. These in- 
dustry members also benefited from the reciprocity extended between the participat- 
ing states. Concurrently this registration and permitting process allowed us to ex- 
amine carriers' histories of vehicle safety and financial responsibility. Our staff was 
able to reach out to many in the hazmat transportation sector who were partially 
and even totally unaware of applicable Federal safety regulations. 

On the basis of pilot State experience the Alliance submitted to the Secretary of 
Transportation a final report augmenting its original recommendations and detail- 
ing a comprehensive plan for national implementation of a uniform hazardous mate- 
rials transportation program. This was the process specifically set forth by Congress 
in Section 22 of HMTUSA. 

On July 9, 1996, the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) commenced a rule- 
making (Docket No. MC-98-10) reauesting comment on the final report of the Alli- 
ance. Obviously the states' and industry's hard work had paid off. Favorable com- 
ments were received from an impressive array of supporters from both public and 
private sectors. I have included a list of those commenting in favor of the uniform 
program in my written testimony to the Committee. 1 

unfortunately, as of today I am unable to report to the Committee any further 
progress in this effort to implement uniform and reciprocal base State requirements 
or hazardous materials transporters and shippers. Essentially, since requesting 
comments on the recommended program, and receiving substantial support for it, 
the FHWA Office of Motor Carriers (OMC) has declined to move forward on this im- 
portant initiative. States and industry have made repeated overtures to advance the 
rulemaking. In fact, members of my staff have participated in numerous meetings 
and discussions with ranking OMC officials and industry members to urge agency 
action. To date our concerns have fallen on deaf ears. 

Soon it will be a year since the Alliance recommendations were submitted for pub- 
lic comment, and it has become clear that OMC will not proceed with implementa- 
tion of the uniform program as mandated in HMTUSA. Instead, the legislation 
under your consideration proposes a new Federal registration and permitting system 
for the hazardous materials transporting and shipping industry. 

Meanwhile, West Virginia and the other participating states are continuing the 
uniform program. But this relatively small prop-am is in danger of dying on the 
vine. Without Federal support (and especially if a new Federal system is imple- 
mented) national expansion of the uniform program is seriously jeopardized. In fact 
it is likely that the program in West Virginia — as well as in the other participating 
states — will become the exception rather than the rule envisioned by Congress. 
Thus, this established program even stands to lose necessary local support for its 
continuance. 

I am here today to ask the Committee to preserve and expand the excellent 
progress already made by the states and industry to craft a hazmat program we can 
all live with. I am here seeking your acknowledgment of the unique and creative 
effort by states and industry to achieve consensus and compromise on national uni- 
formity in hazardous materials transportation. I am here asking you to reaffirm 
support for the national base State system, designed by those most affected by its 
impact, which was written into law by Congress in 1990. 



fc 



1 Favorable comments were received by FHWA in Docket No. MC-98-10 from Commercial Ve- 
hicle Safety Alliance; American Trucking Association; Association of Waste Hazardous Materials 
Transporters; National Tank Truck Carriers; National Private Truck Council; Hazardous Mate- 
rials Advisory Council; Ohio Trucking Association; Minnesota Trucking Association; Nevada 
Transport Association; West Virginia Motor Truck Association; Ohio Public Utilities Commis- 
sion; and the Alliance for Uniform Hazmat Transportation Procedures. 



Digitized by 



Google 



19 

7V efforts mnd mocoooeo of ike rwai ttnkeholdm in kaxmai mfey okmdd mot ko 



ignored or reptmeed by m mom *wkmt reinvented in Washington mi 
Moat uaportantbr yomrr acknowledgment of oor unp re c e d ente d 
■us whkfa p wn d e e a significant lewel of oomlbrt fcr the etatea and significant proce- 
dural protection for the mdoatrv— will serve as a green light to other etatea timrrrai 
to join the uniform program. Many of those states are at this very moment sitting 
on the sidelines lnosntonng Una legislation and exploring their alternatives. 

80 I ore* your qinakii lotion ofthe concerns that wiD be expressed to you today 
on behalf of the states and indnetry, and I thank you very much lor this opportunity 
to bring to yon some of those concerns from our perspective in West Virginia. 

Senator Burns [presiding]. Cynthia Hilton, executive director, 
Association of Hazardous Waste Material Transporters, thank you 
for coming this morning. And if you could shorten up your testi- 
mony. We have got an 11:30 vote, and we want to get your testi- 
mony into the record. And if you want to capsulize it, that is fine. 
And if you do not want to, that is fine, too. 

Thank you very much for coming this morning. 

STATEMENT OF CYNTHIA HILTON, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, AS- 
SOCIATION OF WASTE HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT- 



Ms. Hilton. I am happy to be here, Senator Burns, Senator 
Hutchison. I will try to be as brief as possible. Some of my friends 
in the audience know that that is somewhat difficult, but I will 
stick to my time limit. 

I am the executive director of the Association of Waste Hazard- 
ous Material Transporters. The AWHMT is an affiliate of the 
American Trucking Association, and my statement will represent 
the views of both associations. 

Many agreements were made to bring competing interests to- 
gether in support of the 1990 amendments to the Hazardous Mate- 
rials Transportation Act Some industry supported it. Others were 
not in our interest. In the end, the regulatory framework set up by 
the Act held the promise to resolve manyconcerns of industry, gov- 
ernment and emergency responders. Our goal during this reauthor- 
ization is to ensure that there is no retreat from ana that Congress 
reaffirm the commitment to the principles established in 1990. 

While my written statement addresses DOTs specific proposals, 
in the time allotted, I intend to focus on four issues of mqjor con- 
cern to our industry. 

First, DOT'S preeminent authority to regulate the transport of 
hazardous materials needs to be clarified. 

Recent events have blurred the lines of which governmental en- 
tity has preeminent jurisdiction to regulate hazmat transportation. 
Once again, we are at risk of allowing a regulatory environment 
that will confound shippers and carriers which attempt to comply 
with multiple and conflicting requirements. We believe, as did the 
101st Compress, that unreasonable hazards and burdens on com- 
merce, without mitigating safety or security benefits, will be a con- 
sequence. 

We strongly urge Congress to clarify DOTs jurisdiction, to en- 
sure safe, secure, and efficient transportation of hazardous mate- 
rials. 

Second, the historic use of the so-called obstacle preemption test 
needs to be reaffirmed. DOT has consistently interpreted the 
HMTA to require substantial regulatory uniformity as the means 



Digitized by 



Google 



20 

to the statute's goals of safety and efficiency. To achieve this degree 
of uniformity, provision for Federal preemption has existed since 
the HMTA was enacted. 

DOT implemented its original preemptive authority through cri- 
teria set forth by the Supreme Court. The Court held that a State 
law is preempted if it stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment 
and execution of the fall purposes and objectives of Congress. 

In 1990, Congress ratified DOTs interpretation when it codified 
the obstacle test. All courts, save one, have upheld DOTs consist- 
ent interpretation of its obstacle test preemption authority. 

Notwithstanding congressional, judicial and administrative 
precedent, last year, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals overturned 
a DOT preemption determination because it was Based on purposes 
of the Act. The precedential effect of the D.C. Circuit's decision, 
which is binding in a jurisdiction where the government can always 
be sued, threatens to reverse decades of administrative practice, 
and undermine the vitally important and heretofore undisputed 
power of DOT to promote safety and efficiency in hazmat transpor- 
tation. It is essential that Congress reaffirm DOTs authority to 
preempt non-Federal requirements that are determined to be an 
obstacle to accomplishing the purposes of the HMTA. 

Third, our testimony contains a number of recommendations to 
improve hazmat registration programs and permitting at the Fed- 
eral level. But I would like to follow Ms. Lane's comments and 
speak to these issues at the State level. 

I have with me binders containing the forms to apply for various 
State hazmat permits. This was tne visual aid that we used in 
1990 to help Congress understand the burden that this regulation 
had become. While each of these forms asks for the name, the ad- 
dress, the phone number, the contact and other similar data of the 
applicant, none of these programs were reciprocal. 

The 101st Congress heard our concern, and you have heard Ms. 
Lane describe the evolution of the State-based recommendations to 
rationalize this process. The program that resulted replaced these 
forms with this one form. 

The participating States have seen the benefits of a program that 
rewards safety, spreads the workload among States, eliminates 
gaps that existed in some State programs, and is a safe harbor 
from preemptive challenge. Industry has benefited by reduced pa- 
perwork, a fee formula that comports with Federal law and the 
Constitution, and a level playing field, as all carriers are held to 
the same standard, no matter what jurisdiction issues the creden- 
tial. 

We are, however, at a crossroads. None of this will be realized 
unless the program expands. This task was delegated to the Office 
of Motor Carriers. Regrettably, OMC has not moved the initiative 
forward. In the meantime, the number of permit programs imposed 
on the industry has increased, and without your reaffirmation of 
the merits of uniform, reciprocal State-based registration and per- 
mitting, this program will die. 

The affected motor carrier industry and the participating States 
support amendments to eliminate the need to implement this pro- 
gram through a Federal rule. These amendments contemplate mat 
the program will be implemented as other State-administered base 



Digitized by 



Google 





Sactt a wHigg t aiwitfct t» & 1 
(MC; hKanae BSPA bas Ok axp*rto» to (fe- 
te 
BMTX 

tn WiswsBi 

i£ we (fid not direct < 

needs qk the Ofli&se (n 1 

t^ nadmig be tafam off OHM? 

Ik put an it We ham tec • 

the Office has proven* aror tune, to be ejh- 

tn give & Srir huffing tn sll* suits be cape*- 

ir it is a (fee isMn that we do net so^h^ 

ttat txtey will nnrfce the must ar fflir resources given* 

that this committe e will msure that OHMS has the 

resources mfBoent tn carry atxt its Bum* re- 



On behalf rf the ATA and die AWHS&X I appreciate your ; 
tian tn tkn rei ummpwifaftiim^ and concerns* and I would be happy 
to respond tn qne^aons. 

Bcrccs. Thank you TOy much. Xsw Hilton. I appreciate 



Cliff HtfEVBOK. Gosh* whm I come from* we haw 91* 
[a hujuaj v Hilveiau as, now we have got a B ar nso n . [Laughter J 
rThe prepared ^^^u^t a£Mi fflfean feUow^J 



OP CT!»TfflA ffiCTOM. BH C C T W1 DOKTOft. AfiSOClAOTOfi OT 

Waarx Hazsjtoocs Matsbals Ttes aawm ' MS 



when the I01st Gnpai enacted the I98e 
Wait C mpqi to reaffirm thooe agreem ents* 
The Department of Transportation prnpaaais on not ahhiiw in d ust ry^ 



• Aaaeemeata w ean m 




af DOT'S aveenmsent anth nr ifcy to regulate the 
arods ta be darifiied. 

— piwiy provide that the pnrpeae af the EQfTA » to 
and efficient tram 



of hazareoos materials* and peels 
: authority in o imr to achte» s omV 

i apply diflei o iiily from Federal roles* to ensnre effiaenfc enioemoeA of 

aatnieh in oiuuuewj e^ and to promote the notional healthy w*tfnr% 

DOTi lapeal of f 5106 is n re matar e and §5107 must bo forth** 

. to straw aa o niate aaed ariegatian of shared respoaoimttty with 

OfiflA. 

fcaae fc The hawnrk oae af the oa-caBed **h*mdkr prat mprien toot needs to W 




. hszmat ncBTunoN axd emebgtsct bbstokss planning 

THE TMAININC QLANTS 

The registration ammaai fee shanld be kept tow and flat end that the 
be obtained by esnoncnng the boat of pop 



_ -, expanding the boat of poms to 

or dapping placarded loads. This chance also has the benefit of ftfcfttft* 



fyine far RSPA who is its sobiect regulated commnnky of concern. 



Jht Greats p r ograa a i shoald be refcrm e d to (1) eliminate the i 
»afewanaBaaaFeaKass;a>rec|Birestateaa 

i they aasees; (3) redace the omen at af aay areata by the an aa 1 tf 



Digitized by 



Google 



22 

the fee collected or a portion thereof and require that no grant be awarded a State 
that fails to certify that it is in compliance with 49 UJS.C. 5125(g); (4) to reduce 
the excessive administrative charge and use the difference transferred to fund State 
efforts to enforce compliance; (5) cap the fund at $18 million; and (6) report to Con- 
gress on how the array of Federal grant programs for hazardous materials prepared- 
ness, prevention, response, and compliance assistance and enforcement can be most 
effectively and efficiently administered. 

FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER PERMITTING 

The relationship between §5109 and §5119 should be clarified to provide that the 
Federal permit is controlling but that possesses of the §5119 permit will except the 
motor carrier from the requirement to obtain a Federal permit. Further, to better 
coordinate the applicability of both the §5109 and §5119 permits, all motor carriers 
transporting hazardous material requiring a placard should be subject to the §5109 
permit provision. 

STATE-BASED REGISTRATION AND PERMITTING OF MOTOR CARRIERS TRANSPORTING 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS 

§5119 should be implemented as other State administered base-state agreements. 
Only substantive changes should be Federal oversight. Such oversight should be a 
responsibility of RSPA not FHWA because RSPA has expertise in determining 
whether or not the change contemplated is consistent with the purposes of the 
HMTA and also because non-federal entities that deviate from the program are sub- 
ject to Federal preemption. The section should also clarify that authority to register 
and permit motor carriers is a function of states or Indian tribes not a local preroga- 
tive. 

• Issue 4: Congress needs to provide the staffing and resources necessary for DOT 
to cany out effectively and efficiently its hazardous materials responsibility. 

• While Administration proposals do not address industry's major concerns, we 
are prepared to respond to questions about these proposals. 

• We are prepared to submit to you legislative text to accomplish each rec- 
ommendation we have made. 

STATEMENT OF CLIFFORD J. HARVISON, PRESIDENT, 
NATIONAL TANK TRUCK CARRIERS, INC. 

Mr. Harvison. Pick one of four or five, Mr. Chairman. It is fine 
with me. 

Senator Burns. OK. 

Mr. Harvison. Mr. Chairman, I noted your admonition to the 
panel members, and I will be happy to comply. 

My name is Cliff Harvison. I am president of the National Tank 
Truck Carriers. I am currently in my 32nd year representing the 
Association. 

The National Tank Truck Carriers is composed exclusively of 
tank truck companies. We represent about 250 of those entities. 
They operate 38,000 to 40,000 cargo tank motor vehicles. About 80 
percent of the materials that we transport are hazardous materials. 
Therefore, our interest in this legislation is obvious and rather sub- 
stantial. 

We believe that HMTUSA, is beneficial to the public, to shippers, 
to carriers, as well as the emergency response community. We sup- 
port the concept of regulatory uniformity that was outlined as a 
congressional mandate in that particular piece of legislation. We 
share, very frankly, with Ms. Lane and Ms. Hilton, the situation 
regarding the Alliance. We believe it is a good thing. We believe 
that, overall, it will be a positive benefit on the tank truck indus- 
try, as well as the entire hazmat community as a whole. 

There are, however, a couple of areas upon which I would like 
to use the remainder of my time upon which to elaborate. Within 



Digitized by 



Google 




that. 

Last, >fr 
amended bjr in 
per^ or 'offeror 
Hon is to 
to equally 
per," oi 
statute 



spmut Stock* 

s iiMJOia < 

prec e dara l aspects than i* 

And. again. I am s gj pfid g n of 



XTTC 



thai HMTVSA sfconH be 
litfinit wD for die tsrai ^hip 
One aftlie purposes of HUTCSATs dtfizuran «r> 
tyet i Tn regulatory and compliance respmsabSiiy 
of persons. Hie iwd *3hap<» 
is used t hi o ughout both the 
Yet nowh e re is that term d efi ned. 
Today, like TirtnaDy every other element of our economy, the 
transportation cw—inil y Was become more complex We believe 
that the mihiaK of specific resp o nsib ilities to shippers has be- 
come muddled oner a period of time, and we think a statutory defi- 





nition would be of great assistance in resolving that issue. 

Mr. Chairman, with your acquiescence, if I could have my entire 
statement mdoded in the record, that concludes my remarks. I, 
like the rest of the panel, will be happy to respond to any ques- 
tions. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Harrison follows:] 

PuPAftZDSravMDrr or Curmmo Haivbos, Psssroexr. Natoxal Tax* Ttoxx 

CAsamas. bar. 

tad an win i ■ of the Committe e, tha nk you for 
Tank Track Carriers, Inr. (NTTO mis 
is CUflbrd Harriaan and I ass cvtmUt m my 32 
interest* of the tank track industry before the Gongress, State 
Federal asd Stete ajeacaes. 
Founded in 1948. WTTC is a trade aanwistinn. affifiated with the 

36,000 tank tracks, which s p ecssfae m the natmnwide distribution of 
pfDdacts, chr s w i rals. diy flowsbles and a host of other enmnsrfties* 
grade ahipmrnt a Co nnBi v ati w ely , I estimate that over 80 percent of our 1 
regulated (by U-S. DOT) as hazardous niateriahT sndfer ^lazardous substances*; 
was, oar interest in tins legislation is snbstantiaL 

Madam Chaiinssn, ahnost eight years aan the Congress passed the Ht m s a ns 
Materials Transportation Uniform Safety Act (HMTUSA) which both codified and 
clarified the roles of Federal and State governments in regulating ^laxmnt" trans- 
portation (nartkakriy) in the highway mode. Properly, the Congress noted the over- 
whelming mmortanoe of 'national . . . regulatory umfonmtjf in resohrinn the js> 
risdictiona] conflicts that inevitably arise when State and Federal officials differ 
over •who can regnlate what . . ." 

Frankly, my me m be rsh ip believes that HMTUSA is working and has had a bene- 
ficial impact on the public, carriers, shippers and the e mer ge n cy response commu- 
nity. At the same time, NTTC believes that some refinements are in order, and 1 
win one the w mainrifir of say time, this morning, to elaborate on these i 




Digitized by 



Google 



24 

First, the Congressionally-mandated objective of "regulatory uniformity" has been 
substantially undermined by a decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals for The District 
of Columbia. The net effect of that decision has been to restrict and circumscribe 
the ability of DOT to rule on whether or not a State or local regulation is an obsta- 
cle to accomplishing the will of this Congress. 

Hopefully, this Committee will recommend adoption of reauthorization language 
which will reinstitute and reinforce DOTs full administrative preemptive authority. 

Next, NTTC urges that some "closure" be brought to the concept of Federal and 
State "permitting^ of motor carriers transporting hazardous materials. Current law 
instructs DOT to develop and promulgate a Federal permitting regime, yet DOT has 
taken no substantive action in instituting a "Federal permit. 

At the same time — and in the same Taw — the Congress authorized the National 
Governors Assn. and the National Council of State Legislators to develop uniform 
forms and procedures for State registration and permitting programs. In the 
"hazmat* community, this latter effort is referred to as "The Alliance", and NTTC 
has participated as a non-voting member in the Alliance deliberations. 

NTTC believes that the Alliance program should be published by Federal DOT in 
a rulemaking action, and DOT's Office of Motor Carriers should act accordingly. 
Yes, we have our differences with elements of the Alliance program, but after seven 
years of meetings, proposals and counterproposals it's time for action. The Alliance 
has filed its recommendations with the Secretary, and the major parties have 
agreed that the basic structure of the program should replicate similar successful 
partnerships involving the trucking industry and State governments. 

Within tne context of "permitting", our membership nas two prime concerns: (1) 
A Federal permit should oe necessary only in those cases where a trucking compa- 
ny's state of domicile has no permitting program; and, (2) no carrier should be "put 
out of business, nationwide" just because a single State withdraws that carrier's 
permit. Such a draconian action should only be taken only after a safety review by 
the Federal DOT (under existing law). 

Lastly, Madam Chairman, NTTC believes that HMTUSA should be amended by 
inclusion of a statutory definition for the term "shipper" (or "offerer"). One of the 
purposes of HMTUSA's definitions section is to ascribe specific regulatory and com- 
pliance responsibilities to eoually specific persons (or classes of persons). The word 
shipper" (or analogous words or phrases) appear throughout the statute and DOTs 
hazardous materials regulations, yet nowhere is that term defined. 

Today, like virtually every other element of our economy, the transportation com- 
munity has become more complex. What was (at one time) a relatively simple trans- 
action, involving a shipper, a carrier and a receiver has become (today) a complex 
interaction involving third-party logistics personnel, forwarders, freight 
consolidators and other "specialists . 

What has not changed is the fundamental requirement for specific persons to 
know and comply with important DOT regulations. We believe that by defining 
"shipper" all parties in a transportation transaction will be better aware of their re- 
sponsibilities, and the DOT will be better able to direct their training and compli- 
ance efforts. 

Madam Chairman, thank you (again) for the opportunity to testify this morning. 
I look forward to working with both the members and the Committee staff in this 
important legislative effort; and, I'll be pleased to respond to any questions. 

Senator Burns. I always feel guilty when we have a hearing like 
this. It is sort of hit and miss because it is a very, very important 
subject, especially in my State of Montana. But I want to just ask 
a couple of questions. 

Ms. Hilton, you brought up a very interesting point Has there 
been any kind of conversation with the States, or through the Na- 
tional Governor's Conference, for reciprocity? Maybe you and Mr. 
Harvison might address that, and I am saying sometimes these 

Problems are a lot easier solved on the local level than they are 
ere in this 13 square miles of logic free environment. [Laughter.] 
Ms. Hilton. I am happy that you asked that question. This pro- 
gram was developed under the auspices of NGA. NGA administered 
tne grant, if you will, to put together the States and local interests 
and industry to develop this uniform program. Maybe Ms. Lane 
could give the specifics on this, but I recall that something like 24 



Digitized by 



Google 



NGA«ndtheN»- 
the 




in No- 
West 
we are bring* 
benefits of per*- 
fed we are being frustrated 
to go forward with this 



you Hke to comment on what 
Ms. Hfltsn was tafcing about? 

Ms. Lawk, She is correct. Twenty-two States participated. 

Senator Bums. I just think k lumi tike we can work oat some 
of oar problems. I would hope so, anyway. 

Ms. Coyner, February the 7th, several farm — and I came from a 
fcrm State, md I can remembci back m 1990 or 1991, and I guess 
it was the 101st Congre ss and we were trying to define hazardous 
materials, and all at once soyb e an oil ana s aflk m er oil and all of 
those sh owed op on the hazmat, all af which adds a great deal of 
cost I had to make a rather vivid analysis of what is a hazardous 
material and I took a little drink of soybean oil to show how haz- 
ardous it was, and it turned out to be h azar do u s. [Laughter.] 

Anyway, we made our point and kept that off the list, by the 
way. But I will teO you one thing, you do not get an arm's length 
away from a bathroom for the nest 2 days, [Laughter J 

Anyway, commodity and agribusiness groups submitted a 
tkm for reconsideration on Docket HM-200, which was final' 



December 30, 1996. As I understand it, the petition requests a revi- 
sion of the rale to orovide an exception for hazardous material reg- 
ulations for both farmers and retailers who transport agricultural 
products from retail to farm, between fields, and from farm back 
to the local source of supply, and also with the farm products mov- 
ing off of the farm. Could you give this committee an update of die 
status of that petition? 

Ms. Coyner. I would be glad to, Senator. Let me also note that 
in that rulemaking we spent a lot of time on these issues of par- 
ticular sensitivity to the agricultural community, and there were 
some provisions that were designed to give what we thought was 
appropriate leeway to farmers to address both our safety concerns 
and the economic concerns that farmers had. We allowed intrastate 
farmers to move between fields, as long as they comply with State 
law, and also there are exceptions in the materials of trade require- 
ments that affect not only farmers but others where thev are trans- 
porting only very small quantities of hazardous materials. 

I am aware of the petition that is pending before us on that 
issue, and I would like to ask Al Roberts to give us the particular 
status of that petition. 

Mr. Roberts. The petition is currently under review in our office, 
Senator, and we will be making our recommendations shortly rel- 
ative to that petition. We recognize we need to deal with it expedi- 
tiously, and we are attempting to do that. 

I would only comment that one of the things that is of concern, 
and it was expressed in the preamble to the final rule, is a distinc- 



Digitized by 



Google 



26 

tion that is difficult for us to make, being in the hazardous mate- 
rials safety business, between a chemical, a pesticide, a fertilizer, 
ammonium nitrate, which is a component of explosives, propane, 
and gasoline running side by side with general commercial traffic 
on the Interstate Highway System and other public highways, and 
then saying they are different because of their intended destina- 
tion. 

So we have tried to segment out cases such as field to field, rec- 
ognizing that field to field is not running on the interstate highway 
system where emergency responders would be called to deal with 
vehicles, some of which would be placarded and some of which 
would not be placarded. In our attempt to recognize that when it 
is local in character it is one thing, but when it is over-the-road dis- 
tribution, and basically some of these operations are over the road, 
we would have to look at them differently. 

So that is what we are doing right now. We are taking another 
look at the subject while recognizing that the petition that is before 
us at the present time. 

Senator Burns. Mr. Roberts, and I am aware of your concerns 
and the charge of your office. Just to personally give you a little 
background, I go back to this old thing that we are facing in agri- 
culture, especially at the production level. Whenever all these rules 
and regulations come out, they sound good and all that. In agri- 
culture we are faced in a real squeeze right. It is a cost squeeze. 
Anytime you designate something hazardous, your cost of transpor- 
tation goes up, everything goes up. Agriculture happens to be the 
only segment of this silly economy that we have got that buys re- 
tail and sells wholesale and pays the freight both ways. 

In 1950 it took us 260 bushels of wheat to buy a pickup. Now, 
it takes us 6000. I do not know how long we are supposed to be 
asked to survive and to provide fiber and food for this country 
when we have to accept all the rules, and we pay it. There is no 
other place to regain that cost, is off the raw product. And some- 
times that is unfair. So I think that has to be also looked at, too, 
as far as when we get into the rulemaking thing. 

Mr. Chipkevich, I wonder if you would provide to me and this 
committee — I notice you also do a lot with pipeline division also — 
the safety record as far as moving products by pipeline as com- 
pared to surface transportation. Has any study been made in that 
regard, and cost and analysis and the movement of product? 

Mr. Chipkevich. We can certainly try to provide you some infor- 
mation for the record, but generally pipeline is recognized as being 
one of the safest modes of transportation in moving products. 

Senator Burns. I have a reason for asking that, and I appreciate 
your answer. If you could provide the committee with some of those 
things. 

[Tne information referred can be found on pages 50-69.] 

Senator Burns. We have a vote coming up, and I am so ill pre- 
pared, and I have got to apologize to you. I have been chairing Mili- 
tary Construction. There are a lot of people very intelligent on this 
Hill, as you know, and I am not one of them. I cannot shift gears 
that fast from military construction to moving hazardous materials. 
But I do want to assure you, though, that these proceedings will 



Digitized by 



Google 




iunm JKssacnffr jm£ *&* *e*i^ 



3: Z -angle jtsk ^c ;3»&s* *Q&t$c»m& ^ 
mql x to: ^mur Tomtit ** 33%*s* $n^ 

iitir if w^xbubs* i*wJ «nc s*r 5&*K ^ *t 
m tor ancsniK acme £hs& HMKdM^ 1 
e^ skcsos* I fcn**m da* %* 
nm tl M«aasi W* ar* :&** w >n*- 
sac inwrscaa*.* Heft 1 a»* $*w* 
5^ m£ am: ?bis* sar» ?**ib *»** **^ 
erythmg cist I ikzxk &r lie mas Mrs j^cxJest* ias w*&* a* am-* 
folly good jab amps wswmanr si laeD&xy feasarcktss w m wr mte 



We are dealing wit a ga ee ea kr*i rf as j$r»»;)mn$i ** tfc* 
land now, 2$ poo we£ kasw. T^ejr are ei&xased. th<y ttft&r&a** 
what they are motm^. aod I linni fcr she mas* put p**tt> ufeta^ 
standable, they are pretty respoosabue in mo*w*r snr»* *t th*§* *** 
terials. It is not lie it used tc be. I can renenbtr back m th* *M 
days when we handled h erb ici d e s , if a little was good* a k* >M*$ 
better. And I think we are through those days. 

So I appr ec iat e your attendance here this morning* and 1 am 

Sing to, if anybody else does not have anv more comments b*&** 
is committee, I am going to shut her down and jp to HmkK I 
have never missed a meal, nor do I plan to. [Laughter J 
Thank you very much. 
[Whereupon, at 11:30 a.m., the hearing was adjourned. 1 



Digitized by 



Google 



QinitgA^x^^OO Q tC 



APPENDIX 



p nFS» ^bmhtF &n~2«5^ ^5l 3)***$* «**?av ^vi^t 

as. T5» y^fenT i^»m^ *k& iKr *fst**> ^» 
": ma d e? ^ ^** 3umu sue Swoa ?Snp^ww Vamin^r^cvu^ ^S^V 

it :&** nemt * Sojfcwacc* » 3»*> T!Vw* >•*** ** *M**fc- 
m ITmiwfc Staow 3st£ ^csttor » ^*$fi ****** ywr $M*r 

» Mnaa*«sGMo: <** ^a&ip&itt* ********& « jfe ** 
_ _ ^* seas** » *•£. art :&r «oer*i^ a*S£>\ *$ ** V >N*lw 

• xs c&& smwc as joint *s a* 3«i« s*. * <*«* **£ ww* W V **»l* 




I **■£ ib fcss sat it sacs** *»aarei$^aue*at * a*M<s»*R> $** ¥S$Jftk 
i ggSaegdy ni <ft ifn ^ Nua^ 3d* Aetata**?**** >»*******¥*** 
~ " " ' * : Tyaswavewswa Act ***fcr fVrtr \ v4f 
itsKEXTEAtA Ttewmtknatwi fepaaMMtt *s essVJ the Ha*»gNs**» > |i * W *w * 
Traaspotta a— Safety Memmhrnvna mm Art HMfTSRA- asd e*y <****(** s* ******* 
this prop— i pxs DOT assi BSPA al ike teafe tKey a*** 1 a* t^mW th* t**w*tv* 

tatxm. 

ScMne catead that HMSIVA «. far several reasoa&t a steji fcsn&wawt a* *«f*tat*ag 
this tianspnrtarin si I hope the wifesaea will focus aa tht* aref*»*l **4 W^ lW 
Committee detersflsae what is the beat way to rebate* the atta*e*r sM v K*iwn^ hh^ 
Uriah mo d en t a , which aD too often have tragic cooaemeaoNk 

I look forward to the testimony and any ideas the witnesses may haw tfcsr *W^*v*\ v 
ing hazmat safety. 



Prepared Statement of Hon. Daniel K. Inouye. lia Sknato* Puma )Uw*tt 

Today, this Committee begins the process of reauthoriting the program awl the 
Research and Special Projects Administration (RSPA), the agency that overaeea the 
transportation of hazardous materials. Efforts to maintain the safety of the nattmOa 
citizens is, I believe, one of the highest duties of this body. While ha* mat tr*o,spor* 
tation regulation is not as well known to most people as other types of traospor* 
tation regulation, its function is no less necessary. 

Fortunately, RSPA has stringent standards for the transportation of hasardOM* 
materials and it is no accident that it hss sn excellent safety record fhr KsMsr^H^ 
materials shipments. However, to maintain snd improve this record, we UUMt si 
ways search for wsys to enhance safety. 

That is the reason I look forward to this hearing. The search for way a to make 
safety even more certain. In this quest I believe we are well served by the witnesses 
before us today. RSPA can give the Committee an overview of its effort* to date* 
In the wake of the Vsluiet tragedy, just a year ago next week, I especially want 
to hear what measures the agency has undertaken to ensure that such a traifetly 
does not happen again. The NTSB provides valuable Input Into the safety ptwess 
and will, I am sure, tell us what else should be done to enhance safety. 

Additionally, the presence of the National Tank Truck Carriers and the Assmjla 
tion of Hazardous Waste Transporters, will tfive us new Information ami InslgtlU 
on reauthorization from their perspectives. I understand that both organisation* 
have reservations about the Administration's proposal to reauthorixe ItHrA throtijfh 
the vehicle of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Bafetv KeauthoriKatton Aft 
(HMTSRA). I want to hear these reservations in order to make any legislation bet- 
ter. 

(29) 



Digitized by 



Google 



30 

Finally, the West Virginia Public Service Commission is here, represented by its 
Chairman. RSPA has been a participant and a beneficiary of an extraordinary pub- 
lic/private partnership in regulating this transportation. One part of that partner- 
ship is the use of grants to States to aid in the planning for hazmat incidents and 
in training the emergency responders to such incidents. I hope that the PSC Chair 
will give us the benefit of her experience on the issue of the State grants as well 
as on the issue of Federal and State permitting of hazardous materials transpor- 
tation. 

I hope that all the witnesses will look on this hearing as an opportunity to work 
with us and the other parties to bring about a higher level of safety in the transpor- 
tation of hazardous materials. Thank you, again, Madam Chair. 



Response to Written Questions Submitted by Hon. Kay Bailey Hutchison to 

Kelley S. Coyner 

VALUE JET ACCIDENT 

Question 1. On May 11, 1996, a ValuJet aircraft crashed shortly after takeoff into 
the Florida Everglades Swamp. Both pilots, three flight attendants, and all 105 pas- 
sengers were killed. Before the accident, the flightcrew reported to Air Traffic Con- 
trol that it was experiencing smoke in the cabin and cockpit. Twenty days after the 
accident, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) issued a series of urgent 
recommendations to the FAA and RSPA dealing with the transport of certain haz- 
ardous materials (oxidants) on aircraft. 

Question la. Please summarize the ValuJet recommendations NTSB directed to 
RSPA and RSPA's response to those recommendations. 

Answer. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) made two rec- 
ommendations to RSPA, which were to be accomplished in cooperation with the Fed- 
eral Aviation Administration (FAA). In the first recommendation (A-96-29), NTSB 
recommended that RSPA permanently prohibit the transportation of chemical oxy- 
gen generators as cargo on board any passenger or cargo aircraft when the genera- 
tors have passed expiration dates, and the chemical core has not been depleted. In 
the second recommendation (A-96-30) NTSB recommended that the transportation 
of oxidizers and oxidizing materials be prohibited in cargo compartments that do not 
have fire or smoke detection systems. 

In response to the first NTSB recommendation, on December 30, 1996, RSPA is- 
sued its Final Rule to prohibit the transportation of all oxygen generators as cargo 
on passenger-carrying aircraft. This action is broader than NTSB's recommendation 
since it applies to all oxygen generators, not lust those that have passed their expi- 
ration dates. RSPA issued a proposed rulemaking on December 30, 1996, addressing 
NTSB's second recommendation. That rulemaking would allow oxidizers to be trans- 
ported by air only in accessible locations on cargo aircraft. 

Question lb. RSPA indicated last year it would undertake an examination of cur- 
rent regulations authorizing classes of hazardous materials aboard commercial air- 
craft. Was the examination undertaken and if so, what did RSPA learns. 

Answer. In 1996, RSPA and FAA initiated a joint research project to analyze risk 
associated with transportation of hazardous materials in aircraft cargo compart- 
ments. We are evaluating the risk of transporting hazardous materials in each class 
of cargo compartments and will compare the determined risks to other aviation 
transportation risks. The results of this study will be used to evaluate current do- 
mestic and international regulations and support rulemaking to manage any areas 
of high risk identified. In October 1996, the agencies conducted an industry-govern- 
ment public meeting to receive ideas and information on the creation of emergency 
scenarios by which regulated or unregulated hazardous materials aboard any air- 
craft may cause or contribute to a disastrous situation and to solicit suggested coun- 
termeasures. Subsequently, we developed a multi-branch fault tree for the risk anal- 
ysis of each disastrous situation under consideration (i.e., explosion, fire, loose gas 
cylinder, rapid corrosion and toxic release), and established Key assumptions that 
will lead to the quantified assignment of discrete probability values for each leaf 
and branch of the fault tree analysis. Another, public meeting of government and 
industry stakeholders is scheduled for June 10-12, 1997, to review and critique: key 
risk assessment assumptions, a proposed experimental testing plan to be conducted 
by the FAA Technical Center; and a draft supplement to the report's findings on 
countermeasures. 

Question lc. Does the Administration's hazardous materials reauthorization re- 
quest contain any specific provisions to deal with the shipment of hazardous mate- 



Digitized by 



Google 




/far iwt i i c x»* mifumt 
„_«i»fc. iunfiiMi' the 

**- 'wk jwnfuimm. *" the 

:• an samor * «S: 2»r " 
lyae. £ _ Ti«ZEmaaf TaaffnaJ- jett; smnranr;? *hrpw*c nr rnir- 



n * tunc ->w i *H»t>m 

IP «"«S 1BBK iBtfWHf 4W * ***** ^*- 

ilf -or 





at x*r Mtmm fc M Mw » ; -Chr 

n T Mzpaag maun wt& I*ik «* ■ *#**- 

it. vranalh *■•*?* w»w* *f 

im ZZL npnns* imr. Uaniwi ^f u Arlt*- 



is. Ji*>±m hue nviWE ubmik iM»«n*fe lwrMfe** <*•»«* 
Cxneiui. iar xtie «rwi a" ****»**> *»f i* 

warn*. -*>** Vt* *%Sf*\ 

» jdwk *r *Sr ***** 

os wit offer *»*?«ras* *n*t*e**fe <fcr 




Digitized by 



Google 



32 

about coming into compliance. RSPA recently produced and distributed free of 
charge a half-hour videotape on cylinder retester compliance to nearly 2,000 ap- 
proved retesters. The video depicts a typical RSPA cylinder retester compliance in- 
spection from start to finish. 

Every year, FAA experiences numerous reported hazmat incidents involving lug- 
gage. In September 1996, RSPA, in conjunction with FAA, developed an awareness 
brochure designed to educate the traveling public regarding hazardous materials 
that may not be permitted in checked and carry-on luggage. This informational bro- 
chure is a proactive move by DOT to educate the air traveler, before luggage is 
packed, about permitted and forbidden hazardous materials in checked ana carry- 
on luggage. To date, over six million brochures have been distributed at ticket 
counters, curbside check-in, and aircraft boarding areas. In our reauthorization pro- 
posal, we are seeking authority to permit States to use up to 25 percent of the emer- 
gency preparedness grant funds to help industry comply with the Hazardous Mate- 
rials Regulations. This will enhance awareness of our regulations and the need to 
comply with them. We are also seeking explicit authority to open and examine the 
contents of suspicious packages. We will initiate a Pilot Project to evaluate and de- 
termine shipper compliance with the Hazardous Materials Regulations using. State 
enforcement personnel. This initiative will encourage States to enforce the Hazard- 
ous Materials Regulations with respect to shippers. Most State and local enforce- 
ment is directed at carriers. 

ADMINISTRATION'S REAUTHORIZATION REQUEST 

Question 1. Over the years, the Courts have generally supported DOTs authority 
to inspect packages containing hazardous materials for safety and enforcement pur- 
poses. I note that the Administration's reauthorization request seeks new language 
to "expressly State the authority of DOT inspectors to conduct inspections." 

Question la. If DOT already has authority to inspect hazardous materials pack- 
ages in transit, as well as packages suspected of containing hazardous materials, 
why is it necessary to place new language in the governing statute? 

Answer. The current statutory authority is ambiguous. Section 5121 states that, 
The Secretary may authorize an officer, employee, or agent to inspect . . . property 
related to . . . the transportation of hazardous material in commerce." When any- 
one questions the authority to open a package, a DOT inspector should be able to 
point to unambiguous statutory language authorizing that action. We recognize, 
however, that the authority to open packages should be subject to appropriate limi- 
tation. Consequently, the proposed changes would specify that DOT may open only 
packages which are represented as containing a hazardous material or which there 
is strong reason to believe contain a hazardous material. The lack of clear statutory 
authority has resulted in litigation against inspectors for allegedly exceeding their 
authority. A Federal Railroad Administration inspector has been sued for allegedly 
violating the constitutional rights of a company while he was enforcing the Hazard- 
ous Materials Regulations in a situation involving a non-complying railroad tank 
car, and that lawsuit is causing concern among DOT hazardous materials inspec- 
tors. Although the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit recently ordered that 
lawsuit dismissed, the inspector has been "under the cloud" of this litigation for over 
2 years and additional appeals are still possible. 

Question lb. How many hazardous materials inspection employees currently work 
at RSPA, the Federal Railroad Administration, the Federal Highway Administration 
and the Federal Aviation Administration? 

Answer. RSPA is in the midst of hiring 15 new inspectors, which will bring its 
authorized staffing to 35. Currently 25 inspectors are on board, and five additional 
applicants have been offered and have accepted inspector positions. RSPA expects 
the remaining five inspectors to be on board by July 1997. 

The Federal Highway Administration's Office of Motor Carriers has approximately 
250 field level employees that routinely conduct hazardous material inspections. 

In September 1996, Congress authorized the Federal Aviation Administration 
(FAA) to hire an additional 118 full-time hazardous materials/cargo security inspec- 
tors, in addition to the 14 full-time personnel previously devoted to the program. 
As of May 25, 1997, 83 new inspectors have been hired and are on board. All 118 
of the new inspectors should be on board by June 30. All FAA personnel in the Dan- 
gerous Goods and Cargo Security Program are devoted full-time to the program. 

FRA has a total of 63 Hazardous Materials (HM) Inspectors and 14 Hazardous 
Materials Specialists nationwide: 45 full-time FRA inspectors and 18 FRA-certified 
State inspectors (in 12 States). Each of FRA's 8 regions has a Hazardous Materials 
Specialist and the remaining 6 are at headquarters. In addition, FRA full-time and 
FRA-certified State inspectors in both the Operating Practices (OP) and the Motive, 



Digitized by 



Google 



33 

Power & Equipment (NDP&E) disciplines conduct HM compliance/enforcement in- 
spections (on railroads) about 1-6 percent of the time in the course of conducting 
tndr regular discipline specific inspection duties. At present FRA has 68 full-time 
OP faspectors, 16 mil-time OP Specialists and 22 FRA-certified State OP Inspectors 
in 11 States. In the MP&E discipline, FRA has 69 full-time NW&E Inspectors, 14 
full-time NIP&E Specialists and 34 FRA-certified State MP&E Inspectors in 17 
SUtes. 

Question 2c What percentage of a Federal hazardous materials inspector's time 
is allocated, on an annual basis, to hazardous materials package/shipment inspec- 
tions, and how often are DOT inspection personnel on scene at the point where a 
shipment enters interstate commerce? 

Answer. When RSPA inspectors perform shipper inspections, they inspect at the 
point where a shipment enters interstate commerce. About half or RSPA's annual 
Inspections are conducted at shipper facilities. 

Approximately 10 percent of an FHWA-OMC field level investigator's time is 
spent conducting hazardous materials inspections. Generally, FHWA HM activities 
consist of compliance reviews and investigations of carrier and shipper facilities. 
Physical examination of available outbound shipments, and shipments-in-transit, 
are conducted at that time. In addition, State inspection personnel funded the 
FHWA's MCSAP conduct approximately 139,000 HM inspections on shipments-in- 
transit on the roadside. This State inspection activity under MCSAP represents 6.7 
percent of all roadside inspections conducted. 

The FAA has traditionally concentrated on air carrier compliance: In June 1997, 
the FAA plans to initiate regular inspections of shippers, primarily aviation repair 
stations. The FAA estimates that for the remainder of calendar year 1997 it will 
conduct approximately 500 repair station inspections. Hazardous material compli- 
ance inspections of other shippers are estimated to number approximately 250 for 
the remainder of calendar year 1997. Once FAA's new Dangerous Goods and Cargo 
Security Program is fully staffed and underway it expects to conduct approximately 
1,000 total snipper inspections per year, the majority of which will be aviation re- 
pair station facilities. 

While FRA hazardous materials inspectors frequently visit shipper's locations, the 
acency no longer allocates specific time percentages to the various types of compli- 
ance activities it conducts. Despite substantia] gams in railroad safety — a 75 percent 
decline in railroad accidents between 1978 and 1993-FRA embraced President Clin- 
ton's call for re-inventing government and reassessed its safety program to leverage 
the agency's resources ana establish a team approach that focuses on systemic prob- 
lems and on results to meet FRA's and the public's expectations for a safer future. 
In March 1995, FRA announced the Safety Assurance and Compliance Program 
(SACP), a new approach to safety inspection and encouraging compliance. The cor- 
nerstone of the SACP is its methodology for detecting and focusing on the root 
causes of systemic safety problems, whether on a railroad or with a shipper of haz- 
ardous materials. SACP is a systems approach to safety with three major program 
objectives: Consistency in regulatory application, improving communications with 
the regulated community, ana focusing on the root causes and solutions to systemic 
safety problems. 

FRA inspectors frequently inspect shipper locations as part of their focused en- 
forcement efforts. Whenever they enter a shipper's premises, they are at the point 
where a shipment enters interstate commerce. In 1994 and 1995, the most recent 
years for which data is available, FRA's inspectors averaged about 5,000 shipper in- 
spections a year. 

Question Id. How often do DOT inspectors identify and seize a package containing 
undisclosed hazardous materials? And, is the Administration working closely with 
the motor carrier, rail, and aviation industry in development of ways to detect and 
combat undeclared hazardous materials shipments? 

Answer. RSPA's inspectors work closely with inspected companies concerning the 
proper preparation and documentation of hazardous materials shipments. Through 
training and outreach, such as the information brochure prepared and distributed 
to air travelers about packing luggage, RSPA and the modal administrations are 
working with the transportation industry to raise awareness about undeclared haz- 
ardous materials shipments. 

RSPA's inspection responsibilities normally do not encompass facilities where un- 
disclosed shipments are likely to be detected. Our reauthorization proposal would 
provide clear statutory authority to open and inspect suspected undeclared ship- 
ments of hazardous materials. 

It is not a general practice for FHWA-OMC inspectors to seize a package contain- 
ing undisclosed hazardous materials. When one is discovered, corrective action is 
typically taken prior to any further movement or enforcement action is taken. OMC 



Digitized by 



Google 



34 

works closely with the affected industry to combat undisclosed hazardous materials 
shipments through compliance reviews, participation in seminars and association 
meetings, the development of educational materials, and similar outreach activities 
designed to communicate new regulations. OMC participates in formal training 
events sponsored by States, industry associations and other Federal agencies. 

In 1996, the FAA opened 593 investigations involving shipments of undeclared 
hazardous materials. The FAA, in cooperation with RSPA ana industry, is working 
on a number of training, and informational outreach materials to distribute to tar- 
geted sectors of the air transportation industry. The FAA has expanded its efforts 
to contact industry trade associations, airline associations, and airline passengers to 
raise awareness of the dancers of undeclared hazardous materials shipments and 
of the regulations and possible penalties which could result from violations. 

FRA inspectors do not "seize non-complying packages of hazardous materials, in- 
cluding those in which the hazardous materials are undeclared or otherwise improp- 
erly described. 

When a non-complying condition is discovered, the inspector uses informed judge- 
ment to select the most appropriate tool to achieve compliance, up to and including 
enforcement action. When the deficiency is correctable by the railroad at the scene, 
carrier personnel are notified and, typically, make whatever repairs or changes are 
necessary. If a fix is best performed by employees of the shipper, either the inspec- 
tor or the carrier can call the shipper and request that representatives of the com- 
pany travel to the car and fix it. As a general rule, railroads do not continue non- 
complying, hazardous materials-laden rail cars in transportation. FRA inspectors 
frequently attend training, sessions with hazmat employees to help them learn the 
requirements of the regulations, these may be informal, "track side" seminars dur- 
ing the course of an inspection, presentations at meetings of industry associations, 
or formal classroom settings with the FRA inspector providing all or part of the ex- 
pertise. 

Question le. How will the Administration's requested reauthorization language in 
this area enhance the effectiveness of DOTs inspectors? 

Answer. The Administration's requested reauthorization language would provide 
clearer, unambiguous statutory language, subject to appropriate limitation, author- 
izing inspectors to open packages which are represented as containing a hazardous 
material or which there is strong reason to believe contain a hazardous material. 
This authority would enable inspectors to ensure packages containing hazardous 
materials meet the requirements of the Hazardous Materials Regulations which are 
designed to ensure the safe transport of hazardous materials. 

Question 2. The Administration's reauthorization request proposes to add new au- 
thority covering the issuance of emergency orders. 

Question 2a. Does the Administration currently have the authority to issue emer- 
gency orders when it determines that an unsafe condition or practice exists that 
poses a risk to an individual, or significant harm to the environment? 

Answer. Although some DOT administrations, under other laws, have this type 
of authority with respect to safety problems, the five DOT administrations enforcing 
the hazardous materials transportation law do not have authority under that law 
to issue emergency orders. The Federal Aviation Administration, Federal Highway 
Administration, Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), and United States Coast 
Guard, under other safety statutes, have authority to issue emergency orders, but 
these are not always adeouate to address hazardous materials transportation immi- 
nent hazards. For example, the Federal Highway Administration can issue an out- 
of-service order when a truck has defective brakes but cannot do so when a truck 
is leaking hazardous materials except when the leaks are likely to cause an accident 
or breakdown. The Research and Special Programs Administration has no such au- 
thority with respect to hazardous materials transportation. 

FRA has issued 20 emergency orders using its authority under the Federal rail- 
road safety laws, half of those orders involved the transportation of hazardous mate- 
rials. Two recent emergency orders, numbers 16 and 17 involved tank car structural 
concerns and ordered inspections of thousands of tank cars. Under the proposed lan- 
guage, FRA would have trie clear authority to take a single hazardous materials car, 
or even a single package containing hazardous materials, out of service on-the-spot. 
Under the Federal railroad safety laws, FRA inspectors who find cars or locomotives 
unfit for further service may issue a "special notice for repairs," requiring the rail- 
road to remove them from service until they are restored to a serviceable condition. 
FRA inspectors who find track not complying with the class at which it is being op- 
erated may notify the railroad that the track is henceforth lowered in class — which 
has the effect or reducing the speed of trains operated over the track — until such 
time as the track again meets the standards for a higher class. FRA has found these 



Digitized by 



Google 



35 

authorities extremely useful as enforcement tools; similar explicit authority for haz- 
ardous materials movements would be beneficial. 

Question 2b. How does the Administration anticipate this new authority will be 
used? 

Answer. Each of the five DOT administrations would determine what types of sit- 
uations in their respective regulatory spheres would meet the statutory criteria for 
issuance of an emergency order and to what levels or persons in their organizations 
this authority would be delegated. This authority would be used sparingly and only 
where necessary. An example of a situation in which this authority could be used 
would be the discovery of a truck or intermodal container leaking hazardous mate- 
rials when the carrier or shipper refused to stop transportation until the hazard is 
rectified. Such a situation, particularly at night or over a weekend, could not be 
promptly resolved by seeking and obtaining a court injunction. 

HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT/ACCIDENT RESPONSE TRAINING PROGRAMS 

Question 1. Police and firefighters are the first people to respond to hazardous 
materials spills and accidents. They face the greatest immediate risk of exposure 
to dangerous hazardous materials. As such we must do everything we can to insure 
that these "first responders" are thoroughly trained to know how to react to the dif- 
ferent chemical properties of hazardous materials. Properly and thoroughly trained 
first responders is one of the key ways we can best protect citizens from the dangers 
of hazardous materials. 

Question la. How does the Administration's reauthorization request improve "first 
responder" training and State grant assistance? 

Answer. The Administration request authorizes use of grant funds for effective 
training programs for responders. The curriculum development portion of the pro- 
gram provides guidelines for grantees to use in qualifying their courses for the na- 
tional list of courses published DOT and its interagency partners. The technical as- 
sistance portion of the program provides grantees assistance In qualification of their 
courses. Also, continuing training grant assistance allows those already trained to 
receive more comprehensive training. The funds are also used to publish and dis- 
tribute the North American Emergency Response Guidebook, the most widely used 
emergency response guidance by first responders. 

Question lb. The Administration's reauthorization proposes to cut grants for first 
responder training in half, going from roughly $12 million a year down to $6 mil- 
lion. How does that enhance safety? 

Answer. The Administration's proposal does not decrease grants. In 1990, Con- 
gress authorized higher grant levels to be funded by the registration program. The 
level of grants, in the request, more accurately reflects experience in the collection 
of registration funds and distribution of grants over the first four grant periods. On 
average, the registration program has collected roughly $6-7 million annually. Al- 
though the authorization levels were higher, actual funds collected and distributed 
never reached those levels. Thus, our proposal has no impact on the level of training 
fiends provided for first responders. 

I would be interested in learning the Administration's views about the pilot haz- 
ardous materials response program, referred to as Operation Respond, which was 
established in the Houston area in 1992, Participants in this pilot program include 
the Federal Railroad Administration, Houston area railroads, and fire and police of- 
ficials. 

While Operation Respond was first intended as a research and demonstration 
project to improve information available to first responders at the scene of a hazmat 
incident, its success has resulted in Operation Respond now becoming a non-profit 
institute for further research and development. One of its objectives is to develop 
a computer software system and link 911 or fire and police dispatch centers to a 
carrier data base containing data about a carrier's contents and handling, instruc- 
tions. It also is working to improve training programs for first responders dealing 
with rail and motor carrier accidents. 

Question 2a. Does RSPA have a position on Operation Respond's initiatives? 

Answer. RSPA believes that Operation Respond has played a useful role in im- 
proving the information and communication tools available to first responders. Both 
its software development products and its emergency response training courses can 
better prepare local police, fire, and emergency response officials to deal with trans- 

Sort related incidents (primarily hazardous materials, but also rail passenger ind- 
ents). 

During the fiscal year 1993-FY 1996 period, RSPA has made available $331,000 
in research and development funds to Operation Respond for its efforts in conduct- 
ing demonstration projects such as emergency planning, and response in Atlanta 



Digitized by 



Google 



36 

during, the 1996 Olympics, conversion of the Spanish language version Emergency 
Response Guide (ERG) into computer software format (CD-ROM), and publication 
of a lessons learned report. This contribution is part of the Department's larger ef- 
fort of $2.7 million. RSPA has also provided programmatic support by designating 
Operation Respond Institute's computer software and training courses as eligible 
uses of grant funds made available annually to the Department's Hazardous Mate- 



rials Emergency Planning grant recipients. 
Question 2b. Would the i ' 



fi 



_ . . Administration support additional pilot programs such as 

we nave in Texas to other parts of the country/ 

Answer. Demonstration and deployment of Operation Respond communication 
systems throughout North America, as well as the success or Operation Respond 
training, courses, indicate continuing demand for various Operation Respond prod- 
ucts and activities. We will review proposals for additional pilot programs in other 
parts of the country. In addition, States may use their emergency preparedness 
grants to rand Operation Respond activity. 

Question 3. I represent one of the NAFTA border States and, as you know, there 
are legitimate concerns over the potential public safety risks that may be posed by 
Mexican hazardous materials transporters. The Office of Motor Carriers has dedi- 
cated substantial resources to help construct a commercial vehicle safety program 
on the other side of the border and I know RSPA supported emergency response 
teams training in Laredo, Texas and Nuevo Laredo, Mexico in 1995. 

Question 3a. Have the border States increased the amount of training provided 
along the border? If so, please detail by how much and when. If not, please detail 
why. 

Answer. Yes. The four border States are providing additional training through 
Motor Carrier Safety Assistance Program (MCSAP) grants administered by the Fed- 
eral Highway Administration (FHWA). These grants are in addition to the normal 
funding these States would receive and use, in part, for training under the MCSAP 
program. The four border States received nearly $1 million in extra grant funds in 
iscal year 1995 and $1.1 million in fiscal year 1996 for enhanced enforcement ac- 
tivities. In fiscal year 1997, FHWA will provide an additional $1.5 million to the 
border States in MCSAP funds. The States are using these grants to fund initiatives 
that will provide a more sustained enforcement presence alone the border and im- 
prove the compliance level of Mexican operations with U.S. requirements. In support 
of this objective, part of the grant money is being used for training and education 
activities, including training on hazardous materials regulations. 

Each of the border States is also using a portion ofits MCSAP funding for pur- 
poses of training Mexican officials in the motor carrier requirements for operating 
in the U.S. ana the requirements of the North American standard inspection cri- 
teria, including criteria related to hazardous materials transportation. For example, 
Arizona has assigned two full-time officers to NAFTA outreach. Since December 
1995. these officers have trained 781 Mexicans officials in UJS. commercial motor 
vehicle safety requirements, including hazardous materials safety requirements rel- 
evant to motor vehicle safety. 

Emergency response training support through the Research and Special Programs 
Administration (RSPA) Hazardous Materials Emergency Preparedness (HMEP) 
grants program also increased in fiscal year 1996. Allocations to the four border 
States under this program totaled approximately $962,000 in fiscal year 1996, up 
more than 12 percent from average levels for the two previous years. Overall HMEP 
amounts to the border States also grew during this time period, with the majority 
of these funds being used specifically for emergency response training. 

Question 3b. Has RSPA funded any hazardous materials training courses in the 
border States and Mexico? 

Answer. In the last 5 years, RSPA, through the Transportation Safety Institute, 
trained over 400 enforcement and emergency response personnel from U.S. — border 
States. RSPA has provided training materials to Mexico, but has not funded actual 
hazmat training, activities in Mexico. RSPA also funded translation of the North 
American Emergency Response Guidebook into Spanish, thus helping Spanish- 
speaking first responders in the US. and Mexico. 

Question 3c. Has RSPA provided any emergency response training along the US- 
Mexican border? 

Answer. RSPA support for emergency response training along the U.S. -Mexican 
border has been made available through emergency preparedness training grants to 
the UJS. border States and through support of Operation Respond activities at in- 
stallations in Mexico, at border crossings, and in the four UJS. border States. Grants 
under RSPA's Hazardous Materials Emergency Preparedness program have totaled 
$3.9 million over 4 years (FY 1993-1996) to the States of California, Arizona, New 
Mexico, and Texas. RSPA funding of Operation Respond activities has totaled 



Digitized by 



Google 



37 

$331,000 (FY 1993-1996), with the majority of this support targeted at projects or 
installations in the U.S. and Mexican border States. Existing and planned Oper- 
ation Respond communications systems installation locations in the four UJS. border 
States include Brownsville, Galena Park, Harris County, Houston, Kingwood, Lake 
Jackson, Laredo, Pasadena, Webb County and Victoria, in Texas; Santa Teresa, New 
Mexico; Nogales and Tucson, Arizona; and Otay Mesa, Contra Costa County, and 
San Diego in California. Mexican installation sites include Juarez, Matamoros, 
Nogales, Nuevo Laredo, Renosa, and Tijuana. 

To address emergency response activities that are unique to the border area, the 
UJS. National Response Team also formed the U.S7Mexico Joint Response Team in 
order to enhance coordination of response to emergencies on the border. 

MISCELLANEOUS QUESTIONS 

Question 1. Like all Federal Agencies, RSPA must prepare a strategic plan and 
formulate specific goals that measure its performance in improving the safety of 
transportation. 

Question la. Does RSPA have a strategic plan and would you care to summarize 
some of its performance measures for the Committee? 

Answer. The Department of Transportation is required under the Government 
Performance and Results Act (GPRA) to prepare a strategic plan for program activi- 
ties covering at least 5 years, consisting of a comprehensive mission statement and 
a set of general goals and objectives including tne approach that will be used in 
achieving them. The Department issued its first strategic plan in January, 1994. 
RSPA issued its strategic plan in November 1995. GPRA further requires that the 
Department update its strategic plan at least every 3 years. A first draft of the De- 
partment's 1997 strategic plan is Deing developed with RSPA's participation. Follow- 
ing ONM review, we will consult with our field and headquarters staff, our constitu- 
encies and the Congress on the content of the Strategic Plan. An annual perform- 
ance plan is also required of the Department for use in gauging progress toward 
accomplishment of the longer-term general goals contained in the strategic plan. 
The Department's first performance plan, together with the performance indicators 
that will be used to measure performance, is required to be submitted to ONM be- 
ginning with the fiscal year 1999 budget request. To ensure that we meet this re- 
quirement, each of the Department's operating administrations, including RSPA, 
provided preliminary performance measures in our fiscal year 1998 budget request. 
RSPA's performance goals are both qualitative and quantitative in nature and relate 
to reducing transportation risks. For example, the Office of Hazardous Materials 
Safety has as its stated goals to maintain or reduce the historically low average an- 
nual number of fatalities and serious injuries related to the transportation of haz- 
ardous materials, to reduce the environmental consequences of hazardous materials 
transportation incidents by reducing, the average quantity of liquid hazardous mate- 
rials released to the environment per serious transportation incident by 2 percent 
per year, and to decrease the percentage of compliance reinspections leading to en- 
forcement cases. RSPA's Office of Pipeline Safety has as its stated performance 
goals to keep people and the environment safe from the risks pipelines pose and to 
maintain the reliable cost effective transportation of energy and products through 
pipelines to American homes and businesses. They are looking to transition from the 
traditional measures such as the number of inspections performed, accidents inves- 
tigated, compliance actions initiated or civil penalties/fines assessed and collected to 
outcome measures. These outcome measures would emphasize government and in- 
dustry working together to identify more meaningful performance measures, inves- 
tigating cooperative uses of pipeline industry data bases and working in close co- 
ordination with industry and others under risk management demonstration pro- 
grams. 

Question lb. Is a determination by the NTSB that its hazardous materials safety 
recommendation issued to RSPA are closed acceptably, currently one of RSPA's per- 
formance measures? If not, why? 

Answer. RSPA continues to strive to work with the NTSB to close acceptably all 
its recommendations. We do not have this identified in our fiscal year 1998 
budget request as a performance measure but we are in the process of updating the 
Department's strategic plan and in the process of developing the Department's first 
annual performance plan. We will consider the merit of framing a performance 
measure related to NTSB open and closed recommendations. 

Question 2. I understand that earlier this year, RSPA issued an Emergency Rule 
concerning the transport of propane. I also have been informed propane transpor- 
tation has a very good safety record, something like the risk of incident in the range 
of 1 in 35 million deliveries. Of course, millions of Americans rely upon propane lor 



Digitized by 



Google 



38 

their very basic energy needs, and it is critical to ensure the safe and efficient deliv- 
ery of this essential commodity. 

I am very concerned to hear the RSPA regulation issued in February of this year 
is impossible for transporters to be in compliance. The technology to accomplish 
what KSPA wants does not exist at this time. In the interim, RSPA has imposed 
an "interim operator attendance" requirement for propane bulk tank truck vehicles. 
As explained to me, that means these companies and transporters would need to 
hire an additional person to accompany their vehicles, which seems very impractical 
for these businesses. 

I support doing all we can to advance the safe transport of propane and other 
deemed hazardous materials, but I am concerned that our Federal regulations also 
must be reasonable. Since several propane companies have requested immediate re- 
consideration of this requirement on the basis that compliance is not possible, and 
is not expected to be practicable in the near future. 

Question 2a. This seems to be an urgent problem. Without RSPA's action, our pro- 
pane transporters will be in violation of these regulations simply because they can- 
not "do the impossible." What is the Department currently doing to address this 
issue? 

Answer. Following the investigation of a September 1996 propane spill at Sanford, 
North Carolina, the propane industry determined that none of their cargo tanks, as 
currently equipped, conform to safety regulations that have been in place for nearly 
50 years concerning emergency discharge control systems. Consequently, RSPA and 
the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) saw a need to provide for the public 
safety by ensuring the operators can immediately stop the discharge of material in 
an emergency. 

Assuming that an operator is not in compliance with the existing requirements, 
the Interim Final Rule grants relief by allowing industry to continue operating 
while we work collaboratively on a technical solution to this issue. Since issuance 
of the Interim Final Rule, RSPA and FHWA have worked closelv with industry to 
develop a permanent solution to this problem. RSPA held public workshops on 
March 4 and April 16, 1997, and a public meeting on March 20, 1997. 

The Interim Final Rule specifies that an operator must have an unobstructed 
view of the discharge system and be within arm's reach of a means for closure of 
the internal valve. There has been some misunderstand of the Interim Final Rule. 
Contrary to industry claims, the Interim Final Rule does not require two attendants. 
In fact, the preamble to the rule notes the acceptability of various alternatives that 
require one attendant only. One alternative being perfected by the propane industry 
involves use of a radio frequency remote activation device that permits one attend- 
ant to immediately stop the discharge from the cargo tank and to shutdown the ve- 
hicle's engine. 

We are deferring action on a decision with respect to two petitions for reconsider- 
ation of the Interim Final Rule until we issue a Final Rule because the petitions 
for reconsideration raise issues identical to those raised by commenters to the In- 
terim Final Rule. We will address the issues raised by petitioners and commenters 
in a Final Rule, which we intend to issue by August 15. We are also holding a public 
meeting on June 23 at the request of several interested parties to discuss the In- 
terim Final Rule requirements and long-term solutions to the cargo tank emergency 
discharge control system issue. 



Response to Written Questions Submitted by Hon. Conrad Burns to Kelley 

S. Coyner 

Question 1. Farmers and retailers are very concerned about the outcome of the 
final HM-200 rule and feel very strongly that the minimal exceptions provided to 
farmers and the total disregard for retailers will do little to facilitate tne efficient 
and historically safe movements of ag inputs from retail to farm, and will have a 
devastating economic toll on the agricultural industry. Is the Department giving any 
reconsideration to the concerns relayed in their petition? 

Answer. One of our highest priorities is to address the petition for reconsideration 
of this Final Rule which was filed by 45 organizations representing agricultural in- 
terests. Among the issues the petitioners raised are: 

1. The exception allowing continued use of non-specification cargo tank motor ve- 
hicles for the transportation of flammable liquid petroleum products in intrastate 
commerce. 

2. Not providing exceptions similar to that provided to farmers for agricultural re- 
tailers, farm bureaus, and associated companies. 



Digitized by 



Google 



39 

3. Not providing an exception for the use of installed non-specification air tanks 
use on oil field service vehicles. 

4. The mandatory compliance date of October 1, 1997. 

We will carefully consider each of these in responding to the petition by the end 
of July 1997. 

Question 2. It was the understanding of the agricultural community that in meet- 
ings with DOT officials and through informal communications with the Congress, 
that HM-200 was to be implemented 1 year after the Final Rule was published. 
However, the Final Rule announced an implementation date of October 1, 1997. 
Why was the implementation date moved up/ 

Answer. We had fully expected to publish the Final Rule by October 1. 1996, to 
facilitate its codification in the October 1, 1997, revision of the Code of Federal Reg- 
ulations. We are sensitive to this concern raised by the agricultural community and 
we are reviewing the date of mandatory compliance. 

Question 3. Would the Department be open to any extension of the implementa- 
tion date as it relates to the provisions affecting intrastate movements of ag inputs? 

Answer. We are sensitive to this concern raised by the agricultural community 
and we are evaluating the date of mandatory compliance in our handling of their 
petition for reconsideration. 

Question 4. What data does DOT have that proves that movements of ag inputs 
pose an unreasonable safety threat to public safety and thus must come under the 
same compliance requirements of interstate commerce on the interstate and major 
highway routes? 

Answer. A hazardous material presents a risk in the transportation system re- 
gardless of whether its final intended destination is a factory, a home, or a farm. 
Consequently, to ensure a uniform and consistent level of safety, Congress man- 
dated that RSPA apply Its rules to intrastate shipments of hazardous materials. 
The result of that mandate is that gasoline, propane, ammonium nitrate fertilizer, 
and other materials are subject to Federal regulation, and the public enjoy a uni- 
form level of safety, regardless of the materials ultimate use. 

In developing HM-200, we recognized that certain limited exceptions could be 
granted without a significant impact on safety. For example, RSPA limited the regu- 
lation of certain hazardous materials that are transported in limited quantities Tor 
use in a company's own business (other than transportation), such as a small pro- 
pane cylinder used by a plumber, a small can of gasoline used by a lawn mowing 
company, or a can of spray paint used by utilities to mark underground gas or elec- 
tric service lines. RSPA refers to these items as "materials of trade". 

Also, most incidents occur during loading, unloading, and handling of hazardous 
materials at locations where the vehicle operator, and other persons, are present. 
When an incident occurs, we believe that local emergency res ponders must have the 
capability to quickly identify the hazardous materials through warnings commu- 
nicated by placards, labels, and markings on the package and vehicle in order to 
provide for the public safety. 



Response to Written Questions Submitted by Hon. Ernest F. Hollings to 

Kelley S. Coyner 

Question 1. I understand that RSPA's "Interim Rule" concerning the propane spill 
in Sanford, North Carolina is the subject of an "emergency petition" for reconsider- 
ation. Would you please detail to the Committee the reasons for the Interim Rule 
and your response to the petition for reconsideration? 

Answer. Following the investigation of a September 1996 propane spill at Sanford, 
North Carolina, the propane industry determined that none of their cargo tanks, as 
currently equipped, conform to safety regulations that have been in place for nearly 
50 years concerning emergency discharge control systems. Consequently, RSPA and 
the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) saw a need to provide for the public 
safety by ensuring the operators can immediately stop the discharge of material in 
an emergency. 

Assuming that an operator is not in compliance with the existing requirements, 
the Interim Final Rule grants relief by allowing industry to continue operating 
while we work collaboratively on a technical solution to this issue. Since issuance 
of the Interim Final Rule, RSPA and FHWA have worked closely with industry to 
develop a permanent solution to this problem. RSPA held public workshops on 
March 4 and April 16, 1997, and a public meeting on March 20, 1997. 

The Interim Final Rule specifies that an operator must have an unobstructed 
view of the discharge system and be within arm's reach of a means for closure of 
the internal valve. There has been some misunderstand of the Interim Final Rule. 



Digitized by 



Google 



40 

Contrary to industry claims, the Interim Final Rule does not require two attendants. 
In fact, the preamble to the rule notes the acceptability of various alternatives that 
require one attendant only. One alternative being perfected by the propane industry 
involves use of a radio frequency remote activation device that permits one attend- 
ant to immediately stop the discharge from the cargo tank and to shutdown the ve- 
hicle's engine. 

We are deferring action on a decision with respect to two petitions for reconsider- 
ation of the Interim Final Rule until we issue a Final Rule because the petitions 
for reconsideration raise issues identical to those raised by commenters to the In- 
terim Final Rule. We will address the issues raised by petitioners and commenters 
in a Final Rule, which we intend to issue by August 15. We are also holding a public 
meeting on June 23 at the request of several interested parties to discuss the In- 
terim Final Rule requirements and long-term solutions to the cargo tank emergency 
discharge control system issue. 

Question 2. 49 UJS.C. 5103(b) and 5106 are separate sections and. I assume, not 
redundant. That being said, what compels RSPA to determine that section 5106 is 
unnecessary to your authority? Wouldn t it be wiser to let both stand? 

Answer. Section 5106 is redundant with section 5103(b), which requires the Sec- 
retary to "prescribe regulations for the safe transportation of hazardous material in 
intrastate, interstate, and foreign commerce" . . . and States that the regulations 
". . . shall govern safety aspects of the transportation of hazardous material the 
Secretary considers appropriate." Section 5106 merely contains examples of types of 
activities that may be regulated by the Secretary under section 5103(d). In addition, 
section 5106, because of the nature of the activities it lists, has the potential to cre- 
ate confusion about the respective responsibilities of the Department of Transpor- 
tation, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the Department of 
Labor, and the Environmental Protection Agency. Therefore, section 5106 should be 
eliminated. 

Question 3. A portion of RSPA's planning, and training grants are used to pay 
for RSPA's emergency response guidebook. What are the benefits of this book? 

Answer. The Emergency Response Guidebook (ERG) is the Department's most 
widely distributed technical guide for emergency response personnel. The ERG con- 
tains a list of DOT regulated hazardous materials and response procedures to be 
used at the scene of a transportation incident where hazardous materials may be 
involved. The Guidebook contains initial isolation and protective action distance 
guidance and helps emergency responders identify materials which, upon being 
spilled into water or the atmosphere, would produce a large quantity of toxic vapor 
or gas or other dangerous situation. This critical information is necessary for emer- 
gency responders to protect the public and themselves from hazardous materials 
spills. Since the first edition more than 20 years ago, DOT has provided more than 
6 million copies of the ERG, without charge to the Nation's firefighters, police offi- 
cers, and other public safety and response agencies. In 1996, working cooperatively 
with the Canadian and Mexican governments, the DOT issued the first North Amer- 
ican Emergency Response Guidebook (NAERG) in Spanish, French and English. 
Canada, Mexico and the U.S. accept the Guidebook as meeting their regulatory re- 
quirements that response information be carried with product shipping papers. 

Question 4. RSPA collects nearly $7 million annually from hazardous materials 
companies to provide planning and training grants to the States. What are the bene- 
fits of this companies to provide program? 

Answer. To the present time, 424,000 hazmat emergency responders have been 
trained, in part, using, grant funds. Also, in the latest year, 511 commodity flow 
studies, which identify where hazardous materials are being transported to facilitate 
emergency response planning, were accomplished, 770 exercises were held and 4,477 
plans were created or updated. The information gained from State planning efforts 
will enhance the Federal, State and local governments' understanding of the mag- 
nitude of the transportation of HM and may be used by the States to identify where 
regional hazardous materials emergency response teams should be located. 

KSPA grantees have used their grant funds effectively and creatively to train a 
large number of emergency responders at a modest cost. For example, Arkansas 
used an educational TV network to provide hazmat training, to emergency respond- 
ers in their communities. North Carolina uses to provide mobile training facilities 
to provide technician training and Idaho provides hazmat training in a training cen- 
ter developed in an unused airport. There are over 3 million first responders in this 
country, most of whom are volunteers. Without the grants program, it is likely that 
many would receive little or no emergency response training, thus increasing the 
risk of harm to the responders or to the public. 



Digitized by 



Google 



41 




To that end. RSM 
► fcrthet 
a wide range of \ 
s ares a ent s for packaging the i 
iM paciafmp agamst BViaac withm the motor ^ d nae: mud assures that haz- 
ards poogjf by the ofth ■ ■■!■ of trade are adequate)? cnuuonnkated far the benefit 

ft puot tnjtctmg program to uhiuw efnV 




The pro g ram became e fl ec li ie an Mj^ 15, 1996- The first tickets were 

Of HftTOFBPOS 





Jtnted ft pilot ticketin g p rogram to unto owe 

enforcem ent program want hos been the ex 

with this " 



them, the Office of Hazardous Materials Ei 
141 tickets sad has dosed 107 of then. ceDectmg $134.7*5 is 
sje Ksakr far the cases dosed, to dote b $1,166. 

Of the dosed cases, bHME has collected 100 percent of the proposed penalties. 
None have elected to respond infannaOj to the Office of the Ouef Counsel there** 
sntofnaticslly reverting Dock to the fall ovfl penaky amount. Ticket actions have 
taken an ■may of 39 days from date of issnance to close-out, compared with an 
average of 16 months far a foil enforcement case. Thus, the program appears to be 
w orkin g as envi s i oned- However, the tree ef fectiv e n ess of the program will not be 
deternmned until reinopection of tkketed companies begins in 1998. 

Qmewtian 3. What is your re sp o ns e to the suggestion that the grants program be 
reformed to cap the fond at $18 milhon and reduce the administration charge. 

Answer. Capping the fond at $18 minion would not provide sufficient funding for 
the next 6 years of the grant program - The result would be a decrease in haxmat 
planning and training activities, making the possibility of an increased risk to re- 
sponders and the public in the event of a hazmat accident more hkery. RSPA keeps 
administration charges as low as possible while ensuring effective administration of 
the grants and registration j 



Response to Wktttex Questions Submitted by Hon. Ron Wyden to Kellby & 

OOYNER 

Question 1. Does the Department of Transportation's R esearch and Special Pro- 
grams Administration (RSPA) agree that the language in S. 104, the Nuclear Waste 
Policy Act, that provides "Any person that transports spent nuclear fuel or high- 
level radioactive waste . . . shall comply with all requirements governing such 
transportation issued by the Federal, State and local governments, and Indian 
tribes, in the same way and to the same extent that any person engaging in that 
transportation must comply with such requirements" means that the Hazardous 
Materials Transportation Act governs nuclear waste shipments? 

Answer. The quoted language appears to mean that the Federal hazardous mate* 
rials transportation law, 49 ILS.C. 5101 et see/., governs nuclear waste shipments* 
Also, it appears that State or local flovernments or Indian tribe requirements would 
apply unless preempted by Federal law. The quoted language in section 203(e) of 
S. 104 applies to any person that transports ". . . pursuant to a contract with the 
Secretary. Those persons usually would be Department of Energy contractors. 
Under tne Federal hazardous materials transportation law, specifically 49 U&C. 
5126(a), a Federal contractor transporting a hazardous material, including nudear 
waste, must comply with that law and regulations issued under that law. Because 
the language quoted in the question concludes with the words, "in the same way 
and to the same extent that any person engaging in that transportation must com- 
ply with such requirements,'* it appears that a Federal contractor would not have 
to comply with a State or local government or Indian tribe requirement that is pre- 
empted by a Federal law. To clarify this point, the quoted S. 104 language could 
be amended by adding at the end, "(except a requirement preempted by a law of 
the United States)," language Congress used in 49 U.S.C. 5126(a). 



Digitized by 



Google 



42 

Response to Written Questions Submitted by Hon. Kay Bailey Hutchison to 

Charlotte R. Lane 

Question. What, in your view, is the most important policy action Congress should 
take in the hazardous materials reauthorization legislation? 

Answer. In our opinion implementation of the Hazardous Materials Registration 
and Permitting Uniform Program is the most important policy action Congress 
should take in the reauthorization legislation. That implementation will create a 
true partnership between the Federal Government and the States in the regulation 
of the highway transportation of hazardous materials. 

The Uniform Program originated with the enactment by Congress of Section 22 
of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Uniform Safety Act of 1990 (HMTUSA). 
HMTUSA, in this regard, foreshadowed the current movement to return authority 
to the States by firmly establishing a State role in the regulation of hazardous ma- 
terials transportation. However, the role for the States established by Congress is 
under siege oy certain Federal officials who would replace the Federal-State part- 
nership envisioned by Congress with a single Federal program administered in 
Washington, D.C. 

Now Congress has an opportunity to move forward with the implementation of the 
Uniform Program and to restore the Federal-State partnership it originally envi- 
sioned. After 2 years of negotiations between a working group of thirty State and 
local officials, industry and environmental greups, followed by a 2-year pilot of four 
States, public and private sectors have reached a consensus for a base-state,, recip- 
rocal Uniform Program. By its actions over the last several months, however, 
FHWA/OMC has made clear that it has no intention of moving forward with the 
rulemaking necessary to implement the Uniform Program. Instead, the FHWA/OMC 
has included a pilot lor a new Federal program in its NEXTEA proposal. The actions 
taken by the FHWA/OMC related to this matter suggests that it has no intention 
of implementing Congressional preference for a state-based uniform program. 

As envisioned by Congress, the Uniform Program ensures that carriers are quali- 
fied to transport hazardous materials by highway by requiring compliance with cru- 
cial requirements such as financial responsibility, hazardous materials training and 
commercial drivers licenses. These requirements will empower States to minimize 
the incidence and impact of hazmat accidents and releases, rather than relying 
solely on after-the-fact statistic measures to dictate future resource deployment. In 
the aftermath of the ValuJet tragedy, it is imperative that States have the authority 
to minimize and prevent accidents — not just to respond after the incident has oc- 
curred. 

Congress has the power to implement the Uniform Program in the hazardous ma- 
terials reauthorization legislation. In so doing Congress will implement a program 
which represents a rare but logical consensus among the States and industry which 
will restore the Federal-State partnership which it created with the enactment of 
Section 22 of the HMTUSA in 1990. 

We ask Congress to do exactly what FHWA/OMC has failed to do— implement the 
Uniform Program pursuant to the recommendations contained in the March 15, 
1996 report issued oy the Alliance. We pilot States have worked closely with regu- 
lated industry to develop legislative language that achieves these objectives while 
recognizing due process concerns of all parties. 

Finally, we ask that Congress authorize the expenditure of Federal funds to facili- 
tate the entry of additional States into the Uniform Program. This request parallels 
the support provided to implement the mandate for all States to comply with IFTA 
and IRP in Section 4008 of ISTEA,— with one difference! For IFTA and IRP compli- 
ance, Congress mandated $6.0 million per year for 6 years, of which $1.0 million 
was used to coordinate assistance to States with the remainder being provided to 
States in the form of facilitation grants. We are asking that Congress authorize 
$500,000 for coordination and $2.0 million for facilitation grants per year for a pe- 
riod of 3 years ending September 30, 2000, when all States will be required to com- 
ply with the Uniform Program. 



Response to Written Questions Submitted by Hon. Ernest F. Hollings to 

Charlotte R. Lane 

Question. Have you been given any indication by the FHWA as to when it might 
act on the rulemaking about the four-state pilot program? 

Answer. No. The Office of Motor Carriers (OMC), FHWA, has made it clear over 
the last several months that it has no intention of proceeding with the rulemaking 
mandated by Congress in Section 22 of the Hazardous Materials Transportation 
Uniform Safety Act of 1990. 



Digitized by 



Google 



43 

On July 9, 1996, the FHWA opened Docket No. MC-96-10, requesting comments 
on the Final Report of the Interim Governing Board. The Interim Governing Board, 
the Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance and representatives of several industry as- 
sociations filed comments in this proceeding supporting adoption of the Uniform 
Program. However, the FHWA has taken no further formal action in the docket 
since the end of the comment period. 

We believe this failure to act on the rulemaking is due to OMC's misperception 
of its duty under Section 22 of HMTUSA. This section clearly established the au- 
thority of States to register and permit motor carriers that transport hazardous ma- 
terials if such State programs are uniform. The Secretary of Transportation was 
8'iven the authority to promulgate a rule toward that end. Our discussions with 
MC staff continue to indicate they think they have authority to determine whether 
the States should have any program. 

Throughout the design and testing of the uniform State program OMC has ques- 
tioned the process, findings, and results of the Alliance's work. OMC's recalcitrance 
to recognize widespread support for the Uniform Program belies the Alliance's ef- 
forts to bring on board all stakeholders in hazmat transportation public and private 
sectors. Those efforts included conducting 14 open meetings at which the Alliance 
considered public comment on the program, prompted continuous negotiation among 
States and the affected industry, and exchanged information between the States and 
a sample of motor carriers that participated in the 2 year pilot. For example, the 
final report of the pilot project reveals that the participating States found numerous 
carriers that did not meet financial responsibility standards and many more that 
were not aware of some or all of the Federal requirements for hazardous materials 
carriers. Still OMC maintains that it has no evidence of the safety value of the Uni- 
form Program. It is important to note that the Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance 
(CVSA), the leading international consortium of government and industry motor 
transportation officials, has recognized the safety value of the program and has en- 
dorsed its implementation. 

In a meeting on January 31, 1997 with Alliance and industry representatives, 
FHWA/OMC officials stated to the Alliance that a base-state, reciprocal, uniform 
program is not part of their vision of the future: their vision being a single Federal 
program administered in Washington by Federal personnel. Another example of 
OMC's distorted view on this issue is its comment at the meeting that the Uniform 
Program was unable to "even get the support of the four pilot states." This comment 
ignores the fact that the Alliance governing board submitted a docket response 
unanimously supporting immediate implementation of the Uniform Program. All 
four pilot States are represented on the Alliance board, and two of those States rep- 
resentatives were attending the FHWA/OMC meeting in question. Furthermore, all 
four States continue to run the Uniform Program as their permanent program 
through enabling legislation that was passed by their State legislatures and signed 
by their Governors. This clearly shows support by the participating States for the 
Uniform Program. 

FHWA/OMC restated their position in a letter dated March 11, 1997 to Congress- 
man Nick J. Rahall of West Virginia. In that letter, the Acting Administrator for 
FHWA made it clear that FHWA would not proceed with the rulemaking notwith- 
standing a clear Congressional mandate. In the letter FHWA also stated, the re- 
quested funding would only cover the expenses for 1997 and does not address fund- 
ing needs in the future years." In this instance FHWA was referring to a resolution 
passed by the Alliance board at its February 19, 1997 meeting related to Federal 
support. Therein the board asked Congress to authorize and appropriate "funding 
to facilitate the entry of new States into the Uniform Program and to cover the ex- 
penses of the Governing Board and repository until the time-certain deadline for 
State entry into the agreement. At that time the Uniform Program will become self- 
supporting through a financial mechanism jointly developed by the participating 
States and the regulated industry." A copy of this resolution was transmitted to 
OMC in a letter dated February 28, 1997. 

Instead of proceeding with rulemaking to implement a base-state reciprocal uni- 
form program, which represents an unique consensus between the States and the 
regulated industry, the FHWA/OMC has included a pilot for a new Federal program 
in its NEXTEA proposal. The NEXTEA proposal reaffirms that OMC does not yet 
acknowledge that Congress has determined that States have the prerogative to es- 
tablish a Uniform Program. 

In summary, we have complied with and, in many cases, exceeded the mandate 
that Congress gave the States in HMTUSA. We now ask you to acknowledge the 
work that we have done, to establish the Uniform Program by statute, and to sup- 
port our effort to proceed with the more pressing issue of facilitating broader State 



Digitized by 



Google 



44 

participation in the Uniform Program. Only then will the potential benefits of the 
program be realized by the States and the regulated industry. 



Response to Written Questions Submitted by Hon. Kay Bailey Hutchison to 

Cynthia Hilton 

Question 1. Please give us your views on what adverse impacts, if any, have re- 
sulted or may result from the court decision, Massachusetts v. DOT, you referenced 
in your testimony. 

Answer. The D.C. Circuit Court's decision in Massachusetts v. DOT (1) improperly 
constricts obstacle preemption by failing to recognize that such preemption may be 
based on an obstacle to the full purposes and objectives of Congress; (2) conflicts 
with earlier D.C. rulings and the decisions of four other Circuit Courts of Appeal; 
and (3) misconstrues the preemptive effect of the uniform state-based permitting 
and registration forms ana procedures authorized by 49 U.S.C. §5119 by holding 
that DOT may not override State procedures for the transportation of hazardous 
materials until 26 States approve the recommendations for such state-based forms 
and procedures. 

With respect to the impact of (1), the Court's decision voids the criteria on which 
DOT has historically applied its "obstacle" test preemption authority, criteria the 
101st Congress validated when it codified this test. The criteria are based on U.S. 
Supreme Court decisions on preemption, primarily Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U.S. 52 
(1941). Specifically the decision found that DOT could not preempt a non-Federal 
requirement under the "obstacle" test where there was not a Federal hazardous ma- 
terial regulation or statutory requirement within the HMTA that dealt with the 
challenged subject matter. Consequently, DOT has advised that where such specific 
Federal reouirement or directive does not exist that a petition for rulemaking 
should be filed before a petition for preemption. This requires DOT to institute rule- 
making proceedings on any number of non-Federal requirements where the HMRs 
are silent in order to issue a negative rule, such as "escort vehicles are not needed" 
or to adopt into the HMRs DOT rules, such as bonding and insurance, that are con- 
tained in other authorities of the Secretary. This will: 

• delay the ultimate resolution of challenged issues since "it would be impossible 
for [DOT] to anticipate through notice-and-comment rulemaking what rules the over 
30,000 non-Federal jurisdictions might impose that would adversely impact on safe- 
ty and efficiency" *; and 

• will put these issues — which because of HMR silence should be assumed to be 
unnecessary for the safe transportation of hazardous materials — in competition for 
DOT rulemaking staff and resources that should be looking at issues where DOT 
believes rulemakings are necessary. 

With respect to the impact of (2), the decision is binding in a jurisdiction where 
the government can always be sued. Not only does this decision, therefore, have a 
chilling effect on the type of issue DOT will be inclined to consider under the "obsta- 
cle" test, but it calls into question all prior DOT "obstacle" test rulings. DOT does 
not support this decision. The Department felt so strongly about the negative con- 
sequences of the decision that it petitioned the Court for rehearing. 2 The Depart- 
ment's petition lays out, from its point of view, the consequences of this decision 
given its venue. Regrettably, the request for a rehearing was denied. While the De- 
partment had the opportunity to go forward to the Supreme Court, given the con- 
sequences to "obstacle" test preemption authority, all felt it would be better to ask 
Congress to reaflirm its understanding of whether or not preemption can be found 
based on the purposes of the Act. Unless Congress speaks to this issue, DOT will 
be compelled to interpret "obstacle" test preemption within the narrow view of the 
Court's decision until, if ever, another opportunity presents itself over which to en- 
gage Supreme Court review. 

With respect to the impact of (3), the D.C. Circuit Court again ignored legislative 
history. Congress "strongly noted that [the preemption authority of §5119] does not 
refer to or affect any of the other preemption sections in the legislation." 3 States 
could, in fact, rely on this Court's interpretation to veto DOT rulings simply by 



1 Massachusetts v. DOT, petition for rehearing and suggestion for rehearing in banc, CA DC, 
No. 95-5175, October 1996, page 11. 

1 Massachusetts v. DOT, petition for rehearing and suggestion for rehearing in banc, CA DC, 
No. 95-6175, October 1996. 

3 H.Rept No 444, Part 2, 101st Cong., 2d Sess. page 25, (1990). 



Digitized by 



Google 



45 

claiming that any non-Federal requirement was a condition of a permit or registra- 
tion. 

The Massachusetts v. DOT decision has gutted the way DOT has interpreted its 
"obstacle" preemption authority since the HMTA was enacted, an interpretation 
that was ratified oy Congress when the obstacle test was codified in 1990, affirming 
that obstacle preemption was to be based on "standards . . . reflected in Court deci- 
sions and . . . documented in the precedents established in administrative rulings 
issued by the Department." 4 Congress again is the best authority to reaffirm what 
has, until the D.C Circuit Court's decision, been the undisputed scope of DOTs "ob- 
stacle" test preemption authority. 

Question 2. You indicated that States and industry strongly support the Uniform 
Program. If that is the case, why would the Administration not be moving forward? 
Or, is it that only those States that participated in the pilot are actual proponents 
of a new uniform program? 

Answer. The Office of Motor Carriers has been tasked with the implementation 
of the Uniform Program. We can only speculate as to the reasons it has not moved 
this Program forward. However, we suggest the following: 

• While we have drawn particular attention to the lack of movement on the rec- 
ommendations of the Uniform Program, OMC has not finalized any of the hazmat 
delegations it has received from the Secretary of Transportation since 1990. 

• Those of us who have participated in every meeting of the working group 
charged to develop the Uniform Program recommendations and the subsequent 
meetings of the Interim Governing Board during the pilot test of the Program nave 
watched the lead OMC staff on this Program change nine times. 

• The ATA, AWHMT, and NTTC were told at a January 31, 1997 meeting with 
OMC that industry did not support this program and as evidence reference was 
made to one letter from a carrier who had not been to any of the meetings to de- 
velop and establish the Uniform Program and whose concern reflected misunder- 
standing of one aspect of the Program. 

• At the same meeting, ATA, AWHMT, and NTTC were told that the Uniform 
Program had not produced the data to show that motor carriers were advantaged 
by the Program. Although we attested to the accuracy of a National Governors' As- 
sociation-sponsored survey of industry done during the pilot of the Uniform Program 
that summarized a number of the Program's benefits to industry, we told OMCthat 
we would be happy to request more data from industry if OMC would supply the 
questions that tney believed were not addressed in the Uniform Program reports. 
We were promised that questions would be forthcoming. To date, no questions have 
been delivered. 

• OMC has a plan for assessing the performance of motor carriers that relies on 
past performance and focuses on "bad actors." The plan has no place for the type 
of pre-aualifyimj assessment envisioned in the Uniform Program. 

• OMC has insisted that the Uniform Program has no safety benefit. This is a 
contention strenuously denied by the participating states. From industry's point of 
view, we see two distinct safety benefits from the Program. It serves as an edu- 
cational tool as carriers are asked to certify compliance with a variety of Federal 
safety requirements, and it levels the playing field as each participating carrier is 
held to the same compliance standards verified during mandated onsite audits per- 
formed by participating jurisdictions — a feat the Federal Government simply does 
not have the resources to perform. 

Any effort to assess State support for the Uniform Program must consider several 
facts. 

• The burden of complying with nearly 30 state-based hazmat registration and 
permitting programs in 1990, prompted industry to ask for Federal preemption. The 
compromise was that States would retain their authority to permit motor carriers 
but they would have to do it in a uniform and reciprocal way. Those that did not 
would have their programs preempted. The threat of preemption brought States to 
the table to work out a uniform program. 

• State and local officials from 21 States participated in the development of the 
Uniform Program recommendations submitted to the Secretary in 1993. In the end, 
only one state — represented by an environmental agency — voted against the Pro- 

S*m. (One other State abstained.) [AZ, CA, CO, DE, IL, KS, MD, MI, MO, MT, NV, 
J, NY, OH, OK, OR, PA, SD ? TX, WV, WI] 

• Four States elected to pilot test the Uniform Program. After two and a half 
years, all of the four participating States attest to its benefit. 

• OMC has criticized the Governing Board for not recruiting more States to the 
Program. While OMC has not tasked the Governing Board to preform a recruitment 



*IbuL 



Digitized by 



Google 



46 

function, AWHMT has asked other states— Illinois and Michigan— to consider the 
merits of the Uniform Program. Legislation implementing the Program has been in- 
troduced in Michigan. In Illinois, legislation to implement the Program is on the 
Governor's desk. 

We support amendments that would authorize and support efforts by the Govern- 
ing Board to actively recruit additional States to the program. 

• The National Governors' Association (NGA) and the National Conference of 
State Legislatures (NCSL) serve as the executive secretary and staff to the Uniform 
Program. Neither NGA or NCSL would continue to serve m this capacity if this Pro- 
gram violated principles held by those organizations. 

• In July 1994, the NCSL adopted a resolution in support of the Uniform Pro- 
gram and has written letters in support of the recently introduced State legislation 
mentioned above. NCSL's policy reads in part, 

NCSL supports the recommendations of the Alliance for Uniform Hazmat 
Transportation Procedures [a.k.a. "working group" authorized by {5119(a)] to 
institute Federal standards to facilitate uniformity in State permitting and reg- 
istration requirements. These recommendations reflect extensive review and 
consideration of State and local programs, as well as industry and environ- 
mental concerns. The consensus recommendations accommodate, to the extent 
possible, specific public and private sector concerns. 
The Uniform Program in its present form is a compromise. All sides are capable 
of pointing to one aspect or another of the Program and saying that the provision 
is not supported. Our support for the Program as a whole, however, results from 
the belief on the part of industry that Congress will not unilaterally preempt all 
non-Federal permit and registration programs, and on the part of the States that 
Congress will preempt all non-Federal permit and registration programs that do not 
comport to a Uniform Program scheme. If we are misinformed m our belief that 
Congress insists that States and industry resolve this matter in a uniform, recip- 
rocal way, then we would like to hear how the 105th Congress proposes to remedy 
this situation. What is unacceptable is to continue the status auo (1) where no ac- 
tion is taken by OMC — those of us who have been involved in tnis effort since 1991 
know that this issue does not need to be further studied; (2) where the States are 
left in limbo about what is an acceptable uniform, reciprocal program; and (3) where 
the problem of multiple, overlapping non-Federal registration and permitting 
schemes have increased since we brought this issue to the attention of the 101st 
Congress. 

Question 3. What, in your view, is the most important policy action Congress 
should take in the hazardous materials reauthorization legislation? 

Answer. The most important policy action the 105th Congress should take in the 
reauthorization of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act is to reaffirm and 
clarify the understandings, interpretation, and promises given when this Act was 
last substantively amended in 1990. As stated in our testimony, this reaffirmation 
will require amendments to at least 49 U.S.C. 5101 (pertaining to the purposes of 
the Act), 5103 (pertaining to the Secretary's regulatory authority), 5107 (pertaining 
to the scope of OSHA's snared jurisdiction with DOT); 5109 (pertaining to Federal 
permitting of motor carriers), 5119 (pertaining to state-based registration and per- 
mitting of motor carriers), 5125 (pertaining to the preemption authorities of the 
Act), and 5127 (pertaining to authorizations of appropriations to carry out the mam- 
fold responsibilities of the HMTA). 



Response to Written Questions Submitted by Hon. Ernest F. Hollings to 

Cynthia Hilton 

Question 1. Your position on 49 U.S.C. 5106 is that it forms the basis of RSPA's 
authority and cannot be replaced by section 5103(b). Would you detail your analysis 
of these provisions? 

Answer. It was not our intent to suggest that 49 U.S.C. 5106 "forms the basis of 
RSPA's authority" to regulate the transportation of hazardous materials. The broad 
delegation of authority to DOT to issue rules for the transportation of hazardous 
materials in commerce, in fact, stems from 49 U.S.C. 5103(b). However. {5103(b) 
is wholly open-ended as to what is necessary for safe and efficient hazardous mate- 
rials transportation. On the other hand, $5106 deals specifically with handling, 
which is but a part of all that is entailed in the transportation of hazardous mate- 
rials. Nevertheless, {5106 is the only place currently in the statute where key words 
like "inspections", "facilities", or "equipment" are used to give shape and meaning 
to DOTS responsibility to regulate tne handling of hazardous materials. We believe 
an acceptable alternative to the Administrations proposal is to move the substance 



Digitized by 



Google 



47 

of 55106 to 65103(bXlXB). This change would clarify that the Secretary's authority 
to regulate the handling of hazardous materials is limited to when those materials 
are in transportation in commerce and, at the same time, would not lose the distinct 
areas that have been identified as the Secretary's jurisdiction over the handling of 
hazardous materials since the HMTA was enacted in 1975. 

Question 2. You have voiced concern about RSPA's resources being insufficient for 
it to effectively police its programs. What level of support is appropriate in your 
view? 

Answer. The Office of Hazardous Materials Safety (OHMS) is DOT's lead agency 
to oversee the implementation of the HMTA and a trillion dollar industry that em- 
ploys millions of Americans. Hazardous materials are on every railroad and highway 
and at every shipping and airport terminal in the United States. As a major export, 
the transportation ofthese materials is essential to our trade balance. 

Despite its multi-modal, technical mission, OHMS is authorized for only 129 posi- 
tions, of which only 11, non-supervisory positions, are chemists, engineers, and/or 
physicists. At the present time, roughly 25 of OHMS's positions, including 3 of the 
positions requiring a science degree, are vacant. At the same time, OHMS averages 
30 discretionary actions— exemptions, approvals, competent authority rulings— each 
working day. Other actions related to rulemakings, letters, interpretations, enforce- 
ment actions, compliance assistance and training, planning and data collection, and 
the administration of the registration and grants programs add to this workload. 
Yet, as evidence of OHMS' commitment to performance, it completed within the 
timeframe set by the Department 100 percent of its goals to eliminate or reform out- 
dated rules during DOTs regulatory reinvention initiative, a feat — either percent- 
age-wise or in terms of sheer numbers of rules revised — not reached by all other 
modal administrations with more staff. 

On a per staff basis OHMS' productivity is exemplary and, as proved during the 
regulatory reinvention initiative, in the aftermath of the ValuJet tragedy, or in the 
wake of the metam sodium spill in California, it can marshall resources to accom- 
plish discrete regulatory objectives. Nevertheless, it is falling behind in the process- 
ing of routine work. There is unanswered correspondence over a year old, about 150 
petitions accepted for rulemaking but waiting for time and opportunity to be consid- 
ered, and a rolling backlog of over 100 approvals/exemptions have not been proc- 
essed within the 180-day timeframe set by Congress [49 XJS.C. 5117(c)]. The recent 
loss of highly acclaimed regulatory technical staff in the rush to beef up FAA's haz- 
ardous materials expertise, because OHMS was unable to match the grade/pay level 
being offered, will also set the Office back. 

We understand why the Administration's proposals recommended an authoriza- 
tion of appropriations at the level contained in the President's budget. However, any 
realistic appraisal of OHMS' workload shows that a decrease in funds authorized 
is not an appropriate signal to send to OHMS staff, the Congressional Appropria- 
tions Committees, the industry, the emergency response community, and the public. 

Congress needs to ensure that OHMS has knowledgeable leadership, qualified 
staff and sufficient resources to carry out its many responsibilities. Any amount less 
than its last authorization of appropriations would not be adequate. 



Response to Written Questions Submitted by Hon. Daniel K. Inouye to 

Cynthia Hilton 

Question 1. How does Section 5107 grant OSHA an unintended delegation of 
shared responsibility with RSPA? 

Answer. Without the exception at 55107(0(2), DOTs regulation of hazardous ma- 
terials under the HMTA would take precedence over OSHA's regulation under the 
OSHAct because (4(bXl) of the OSHAct provides that, 

Nothing in this Act shall apply to working conditions of employees with re- 
spect to which other Federal agencies . . . exercise statutory authority to pre- 
scribe or enforce standards or regulations affecting occupational safety or 
health. 
During consideration of the 1990 amendments, concern was expressed that the 
mandate for DOT to issue regulations for training (45107(a)) would undermine 
OSHA's then newly implemented HAZWOPER standard (29 CFR 1910.120). To ad- 
dress this concern the so-called "reverse 4(bXir provision was added specifically to 
what was } 1805 at the time. The provision read, 

For purposes of section 653(b)(1) of title 29, no action taken by the Secretary 
pursuant to this section shall be deemed to be an exercise of statutory authority 
to prescribe or enforce standards or regulations affecting occupational safety or 
health. (Emphasis added.) 



Digitized by 



Google 



48 

Unfortunately, a clerical error was made and the word •section" instead of "sub- 
section" was used. Because of the way the pre-recodifled version of the HMTA read, 
it was not easily apparent how the use of the word "section'' expanded what legisla- 
tive history supports as only a protection of OSHA training standards. However, the 
1994 recodification made clear that the word "section" subjected other DOT authori- 
ties which had appeared in other parts of the pre-recodined version of the HMTA 
to the reverse (4XbXD language. Specifically, those other authorities are (5106 
(handling criteria), (5109 (motor carrier permitting), and (5108 (hazmat registra- 
tion). 

There simply is no rationale for granting shared jurisdiction with OSHA over 
motor carrier permitting and/or hazmat registration. While handling criteria may be 
a slightly grayer area, the authority of } 5106 has existed since the HMTA was first 
enacted in 1975. 

We recommend that Congress correct this error by eliminating from $ 5107(f)(2) 
the words, "and sections 5106, 5108(cMgX]) and (h), and 5109 of this title" and by 
moving the substance of 5 5106 to §5103(bXlX2) to clarify that the Secretary's au- 
thority to regulate handling of hazardous materials must be transportation-related. 

Question 2. In your testimony vou contend that the State grants program should 
be "reformed" to reduce the administrative charge and cap the fund at $18 million. 
What advantages are there to these actions? 

Answer. Among the many recommendations we make to reform the hazmat reg- 
istration ((5108) and grants program ($5116) are a recommendation to cap the fund 
at $18 million and to reduce the administrative charge for processing the registra- 
tion form. First, we would urge Congress to look collectively at all the reforms we 
have recommended and not one or two in isolation so that it is clearly understood 
that we are simply recommending changes that we believe will produce the results 
anticipated when these provisions were added in 1990. 

With regard to the first recommendation specifically mentioned, $18 million was 
the amount Congress determined was appropriate to annually finance hazmat plan- 
ning and training. In fact, Congress intended that the States annually receive only 
$5 million for planning grants and $7.8 million for training grants. The remaining 
$5.2 million was to be used for other administrative purposes. Although this funding 
source to States pales in relationship to the roughly $150 million available from 
other Federal programs that support emergency preparedness and response and the 
safe transportation of hazardous material, industry agreed to support the hazmat 
registration fee as part of the whole package of amendments enacted in 1990. In 
keeping with our commitment in 1990, we are reaffirming our commitment to re- 
form the program in ways that will generate the agreed to f 18 million. 

With regard to the second recommendation specifically mentioned, RSPA cur- 
rently assesses a $50 fee for processing the hazmat registration form. This fee is 
in addition to the fee paid to support the above referenced $18 million fund. Our 
recommendation does not say that industry not pay the $50 per company fee, but 
it does say that $50 to enter the data from the registration form and give an appli- 
cant a unique identification number is excessive. We believe this amount can and 
should be reduced. Whatever can be saved from this process — $20-30 per registra- 
tion — should be reserved and returned to States for the purpose of enforcing the reg- 
istration program. We believe one of the reasons the hazmat registration program 
has failed to generate the $18 million is that States do not have an incentive to en- 
force the program — 75 percent of all grant assistance must be passed through to lo- 
calities. 



Response to Written Questions Submitted by Hon. Kay Bailey Hutchison to 

Robert Chipkevich 

Question 1. The NTSB has a long and commendable history of seeking improve- 
ments in hazardous materials transportation practices. 

Question la. In the NTSB accident and incident investigations, has it identified 
undeclared hazardous materials shipments to be a major transportation safety prob- 
lem? 

Answer. The Safety Board has addressed the issue of safely transporting hazard- 
ous materials by air in several accident investigation reports. In the Safety Board's 
accident report on the in-flight fire aboard an American Airlines DC-9, in Nashville, 
Tennessee, on February 3, 1988, the Safety Board addressed the problem of 
undeclared hazardous materials shipments. Further, recommendations were made 
to the industry to develop a program to more effectively inform and warn pas- 
sengers and shippers about restrictions and safety requirements for hazardous ma- 
terials and to improve methods of detecting undeclared hazardous materials offered 



Digitized by 



Google 



49 

for air transportation. In this report, the Safety Board also recommended that the 
tteatiarch and Special Programs Administration (RSPA) and the Federal Aviation 
Administration (FAA) improve posting requirements posting hazardous materials 
restriction notices. Most recently, following the VaraJet accident on May 11, 1997, 
the Safety Board on May 31, 1997, recommended that the FAA immediately evalu- 
ate the practices of and training provided by all air carriers for accepting oassenfer 
baggage and freight shipments (including company materials) and for identifying 
undeclared or unauthorized hazardous materials that are offered for transport 

Question lb. If the NTSB were to identify the most serious safety problem in haz- 
ardous materials transportation area, what would it be? 

Answer. In aviation transportation, the transport of undeclared hazardous mate- 
rials aboard aircraft and the transport of oxidizers and oxidizing materials in cargo 
compartments that do not have fire or smoke detection systems. 

Question lc. Has the NTSB ever issued recommendations to RSPA calling for im- 
provements in the training of hazardous materials transportation employees and/or 
hazardous materials emergency response personnel? 

Answer. Yes, the Safety Board on several occasions has asked for improvements 
in hazardous materials training requirements for transportation employees and 
emergency response personnel. Below is a computer printout summary of those 
safety recommendations. 



Digitized by 



Google 



50 



~£ £ 



re a: oo 



< 

a. 
to 

(0 o 
CO § 

si 

o 3 

9- = 

C/> 0} 

c « 

en s 
H § 

O r^ 

(0 "S S 

c « *~ 
O co w 

ID'S 2 

Z° CO 
CO °° 



•= c CO 

<S <5 cm 

o a. 



a: 

g 



a: 
a: 
o 



a: 
o 



1 
1 



3 S 

O CO 

I- o 
O 



z 
o 





CO 

c 










o 










Ql 










CO 










CD 


CD 






CD 


a: 


CO 

C 






CO 

c 

a 




o 

Q. 
CD 


1 

.2 




(0 
CD 


S 


C£ 


8 


CD 
(0 


CD 
JQ 


< 

CD 
JQ 


CD 


s. 

CD 
(0 


c 
o 

Ql 
CO 

CD 


CO 

§ 


«5 

Ql 

§ 


8 

O 
CO 

c 


c 

O 
Ql 
CO 
CD 


CO 


f 


"f 


3 

1 


i 


<f 


1 

c 


i 

C 


1 

c 


i 

c 


1 

c 


& 


CD 
Q. 


CD 
CL 


CD 
Q. 


& 



o o o o o 



< < q_* o_* or 

< < d cc < 

o o o o o 




3 £-' 



CO 

*5 

c 
o 
it- 



3 i 

o o 



..CO < 

3 3 C£ CO Z 
O O O O O 



CD 

Q 



1 

CO 

a: 



ogle 



51 



Recommendation Report 

Wednesday, May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DATE.-1/1/88 - 5/31/97 ADDRESSEE:RSPA 

Log Number 2101A 

Issue Date 10/24788 NASHVILLE TN 2/3/83 

ON FEBRUARY 3, 1988, AMERICAN AIRLINES FLIGHT 132, A MCDONNELL DOUGLAS DC-9-83, DEPARTED 
DALLAS/FORT WORTH INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, TEXAS, FOR NASHVILLE METROPOLITAN AIRPORT, 
TENNESSEE. IN ADDITION TO THE PASSENGER LUGGAGE IN THE MIDCARGO COMPARTMENT, FLIGHT 132 
WAS LOADED WITH A 104 POUND FIBER DRUM OF TEXTILE TREATMENT CHEMICALS. UNDECLARED AND 
IMPROPERLY PACKAGED HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INSIDE THE FIBER DRUM INCLUDED 5 GALLONS OF 
HYDROGEN PEROXIDE SOLUTION AND 25 POUNDS OF A SODIUM ORTHOSILICATE-BASED MIXTURE. 
WHILE IN FLIGHT, A FLIGHT ATTENDANT AND A DEADHEADING FIRST OFFICER NOTIFIED THE COCKPIT 
CREW OF SMOKE IN THE PASSENGER CABIN. THE PASSENGER CABIN FLOOR ABOVE THE CARGO 
COMPARTMENT WAS HOT AND SOFT, AND THE FLIGHT ATTENDANTS HAD TO MOVE PASSENGERS FROM 
THE AFFECTED AREA. THE CAPTAIN, WHO WAS AWARE OF A MECHANICAL DISCREPANCY WITH THE 
AUXILIARY POWER UNIT (APU) ON AN EARLIER FLIGHT WHICH RESULTED IN IN-FLIGHT FUMES. WAS 
SKEPTICAL ABOUT THE FLIGHT ATTENDANTS REPORT OF SMOKE. NO IN-FLIGHT EMERGENCY WAS 
DECLARED. AFTER LANDING, THE CAPTAIN NOTIFIED NASHVILLE GROUND CONTROL ABOUT THE 
POSSIBILITY OF FIRE IN THE CARGO COMPARTMENT, AND HE REQUESTED FIRE EQUIPMENT. THE FLIGHT 
ATTENDANTS THEN INITIATED PROCEDURES TO EVACUATE THE AIRPLANE ON THE TAXIWAY. ABOUT 2 
MINUTES 8 SECONDS AFTER THE PLANE LANDED, THE 120 PASSENGERS AND 6 CREWMEMBERS BEGAN 
EVACUATING THE AIRPLANE. AFTER THE PLANE WAS EVACUATED, CRASH/FIRE/RESCUE PERSONNEL 
EXTINGUISHED THE FIRE IN THE CARGO COMPARTMENT. 

a -i *: * *••<.*,» Overall Status Priority 

Recommendation # A-88-120 CAA class 11 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: REQUIRE 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESTRICTION NOTICES TO BE POSTED AT ALL AIR TRANSPORTATION FREIGHT 
ACCEPTANCE FACILITIES INCLUDING AIR FREIGHT FORWARDER FACILITIES. 

RSPA CLOSED - ACCEPTABLE 2/15/94 



Pagel 



Digitized by 



Google 



52 



Recommendation Report 

Wednesday, May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1/1/88 • 5/31/97 ADDRESSEE: RSPA 

Log Number 2604A 

Issue Date 5/31/96 MIAMI FL 5/11/96 

ON 5/1 1/96, ABOUT 1415 EASTERN DAYLIGHT TIME, A MCDONNELL DOUGLAS DC-9-32 CRASHED INTO THE 
EVERGLADES SWAMP SHORTLY AFTER TAKEOFF FROM MIAMI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, MIAMI FLORIDA. 
THE AIRPLANE, N904VJ, WAS OPERATED BY VALUJET AIRLINES. INC.. AS VALUJET FLIGHT FLIGHT 592. 
BOTH PILOTS, THE THREE FLIGHT ATTENDANTS, & ALL 105 PASSENGERS WERE KILLED. BEFORE THE 
ACCIDENT, THE FLIGHTCREW REPORTED TO AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL THAT IT WAS EXPERIENCING SMOKE 
IN THE CABIN & COCKPIT. VISUAL METEOROLOGICAL CONDITIONS EXISTED IN THE MIAMI AREA AT THE 
TIME OF THE TAKEOFF. THE DESTINATION OF THE FLIGHT WAS HARTSFIELD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, 
ATLANTA, GEORGIA. FLIGHT 592 WAS ON AN INSTRUMENT FLIGHT RULES FLIGHT PLAN. 

. .. - AftCA „ ft Overall Status Priority 

Recommendation # a-96-029 oaa class i 

THE NTSB RECOMMDNS THAT THE RSPA: IN COOPERATION WITH THE FAA, PERMANENTLY PROHIBIT 
TRANSPORTATION OF CHEMICAL OXYGEN GENERATORS AS CARGO ON BOARD ANY PASSENGER OR 
CARGO AIRCRAFT WHEN THE GENERATORS HAVE PASSED EXPIRATION DATES, & CHEMICAL CORE HAS 
NOT BEEN DEPLETED. 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 

a -i *• m. a «* M * Overall Status Priority 

Recommendation # a-96-030 oaa class i 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RSPA: IN COOPERATION WITH FAA, PROHIBIT THE TRANTPORTATION 
OF OXIDIZERS & OXIDIZING MATERIALS ( E.G., NITIRC ACID) IN CARGO COMPARTMENTS THAT DO NOT 
HAVE FIRE OR SMOKE DETECTION SYSTEMS. 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 



Page 2 



Digitized by 



Google 



58 



Recommendation Report 

Wednesday, May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DAT&1/1/88 - 5/31/97 ADDRESSEE:RSPA 

Log Number H-0519 

Issue Date 7/7/88 SONORA KY 1/5/88 

ON JANUARY 4, 1988, AN MC 307 TANK TRAILER OPERATED BY DSI TRANSPORT, INC. (DSI), DEPARTED 
THE AIR PRODUCTS. INC.. TERMINAL IN ST. GABRIEL, LOUISIANA, WITH 39,000 POUNDS OF MONO- 
ISOPROPYLAM1NE. A FLAMMABLE LIQUID. THE TRUCK WAS EN ROUTE TO THE PENNWALT 
CORPORATION'S PLANT IN WYANDOTTE, MICHIGAN. THE TRUCKDRIVER REPORTED THAT ABOUT 5:30 
P.M. ON JANUARY 5. AS THE TRUCK WAS PROCEEDING NORTHBOUND ON INTERSTATE 65 ABOUT 3 MILES 
NORTH OF SONORA, KENTUCKY. HE HEARD A LOUD NOISE SIMILAR TO A BLOWOUT AND THE TRUCK 
JERKED HARD TO HIS LEFT. IN THE SIDEVIEW MIRROR, THE TRUCKDRIVER SAW SPARKS COMING FROM 
THE REAR OF THE VEHICLE. ALTHOUGH DIFFICULT, THE TRUCKDRIVER MOVED THE VEHICLE ONTO THE 
SHOULDER OF THE ROAD AND STOPPED. HE DISEMBARKED AND EXTINGUISHED A FIRE BENEATH THE 
TRAILER WHICH HE BELIEVED WAS BEING FUELED BY GREASE ON THE SUPPORT PADS OF THE 
TRAILER'S DOLLY LEGS. 

. *r m u ..a*« Overall Status Priority 

Recommendation # H-88-028 CUA class n 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: ESTABLISH 
QUANTITATIVE CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING WHEN DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION SPECIFICATION 
CARGO TANKS MUST BE PROTECTED AGAINST VACUUM FAILURE. THE CRITERIA SHOULD PRESCRIBE 
EXPUCIT STANDARDS FOR DESIGN, OPERATION. AND MAINTENANCE OF VACUUM RELIEF DEVICES WHEN 
REQUIRED. 

RSPA CLOSED -UNACCEPTABLE ACTION 3/7/94 

Recommendation # H-88-027 CUA class 11 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: REVISE THE 
CRITERIA FOR REPORTING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENTS TO INCLUDE VACUUM FAILURES OF 
CARGO TANKS 

RSPA CLOSED - UNACCEPTABLE ACTION 3/7/94 



Page 3 



Digitized by 



Google 



64 



Recommendation Report 

Wednesday, May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1/1/88 - 5/31/97 ADDRESSEE:RSPA 

Log Number H-0553 

Issue Date 9/12/90 ASHLAND VA 12/28/88 

ABOUT 5:15 A.M LOCAL TIME ON DECEMBER 28, 1988, THE DRIVER OF A TRACTOR-SEMITRAILER 
OPERATED BY VIRGINIA CHEMICAL COMPANY, INC. (VIRGINIA CHEMICAL) OF PORTSMOUTH, VIRGINIA, 
WAS OFF-LOADING SULFUR DIOXIDE INTO A STORAGE TANK AT BEAR ISLAND PAPER COMPANY (BEAR 
ISLAND) IN ASHLAND, VIRGINIA, WHEN A NIPPLE IN THE MC-331 CARGO TANK'S DISCHARGE SYSTEM 
CRACKED AND FAILED. THE FAILURE RESULTED IN THE UNINTENTIONAL RELEASE OF 40,900 POUNDS OF 
SULFUR DIOXIDE, A NONFLAMMABLE GAS. THE DRIVER ATTEMPTED TO ESCAPE THE VAPOR CLOUD BUT 
WAS OVERCOME BY THE HIGHLY TOXIC GAS AND SUFFERED FATAL INJURIES; 14 OTHER INDIVIDUALS 
WERE TAKEN TO THE HOSPITAL FOR TREATMENT AND WERE RELEASED. 

j *- l,™^ Overall Statu* Priority 

Recommendation # H-90-091 0UA class ii 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: REQUIRE 
CONTROLS FOR INTERNAL SHUT-OFF VALVES FOR THE DISCHARGE SYSTEM TO BE INSTALLED AT 
REMOTE LOCATIONS ON ALL NEWLY CONSTRUCTED AND CURRENTLY AUTHORIZED DEPARTMENT OF 
TRANSPORTATION SPECIFICATION CARGO TANKS THAT ARE USED FOR THE TRANSPORTATION OF ANY 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. 

RSPA OPEN - UNACCEPTABLE ACTION 



Digitized by 



Google 



55 



Recommendation Report 

Wednesday, May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1/1/88- 5/31/97 ADDRESSEE:RSPA 

Log Number H -0561 A 

Issue Date 10/12/91 CARMICHAEL CA 2/13/91 

ABOUT 3 AM. PACIFIC STANDARD TIME ON FEBRUARY 13, 1991 A TRACTOR- SEMITRAILER (CARGO TANK) 
OVERTURNED AS THE VEHICLE WAS TRAVELING ON A MAIN URBAN ROADWAY IN CARMICHAEL. 
CALIFORNIA. AT THE TIME OF THE ACCIDENT, THE CARGO TANK CONTAINED ABOUT 8,800 GALLONS OF 
AUTOMOTIVE GASOLINE THAT WAS BEING TRANSPORTED BY INTRASTATE DELIVERY TO A SERVICE 
STATION. GASOLINE FROM THE CARGO TANK SPILLED INTO A NEARBY DRAINAGE DITCH AND ENTERED 
THE UNDERGROUND DRAINAGE SYSTEM. GASOLINE VAPORS IGNITED FROM AN UNDERTERMINED 
IGNITION SOURCE. AND THE FIRE FLASHED BACK AND ENGULFED THE OVERTURNED CARGO TANK. IN 
ADDITION TO THE TOTAL LOSS OF THE TANK TRUCK, ITS CARGO, AND TWO PARKED CARS, FOUR HOMES 
AND THEIR CONTENTS WERE DESTROYED OR HEAVILY DAMAGED BY FIRE, AND THE RESIDENTS FROM A 
2-MILE-SQUARE AREA WERE EVACUATED. TOTAL PROPERTY DAMAGE AND CLEANUP COSTS WERE 
ESTIMATED AT NEARLY $1 MILLION. THERE WERE THREE MINOR INJURIES. 

« _. *« ^ ..^ M . Overall Status Priority 

Recommendation # H-91-034 CAA class n 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: REQUIRE 
THAT ALL FITTINGS AND DEVICES MOUNTED ON MANHOLE COVER OF CARGO TANKS MEET THE SAME 
PERFORMANCE STANDARD TO WITHSTAND THE STATIC INTERNAL FLUID PRESSURE AS THAT REQUIRED 
FOR THE MANHOLE COVER. 

RSPA CLOSED- ACCEPTABLE 11/8/96 



Page5 



Digitized by 



Google 



56 



Recommendation Report 

Wednesday, May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1/1/M- 5/31/97 ADDRE8SEE:RSPA 

Log Number H-0562 

Issue Date 3/20/92 

BETWEEN JANUARY AND MAY 1991 , THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD INVESTIGATED 
SEVEN HIGHWAY ACCIDENTS IN WHICH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (DOT) SPECIFICATION MC 
306 OR MC 312 CARGO TANKS OVERTURNED AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS WERE RELEASED THROUGH 
DAMAGED CLOSURES OR FITTINGS ON TOP OF THE TANKS. UNDER DOT REGULATIONS, ALL OF THE 
TANKS WERE REQUIRED TO HAVE ROLLOVER PROTECTION FOR THE FITTINGS ON THE TOP OF THE 
TANKS. ALL OF THE TANKS WERE EQUIPPED WITH RAILS OR GUARDS ATTACHED TO THE TANK TO 
PROVIDE THAT PROTECTION. THE FAILURE OF THE DEVICES TO PROVIDE ADEQUATE ROLLOVER 
PROTECTION RAISED CONCERNS ABOUT THEIR PERFORMANCE, AND ABOUT THE ADEQUACY AND 
ENFORCEMENT OF THE DOT REQUIREMENTS REGARDING THE STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY AND THE 
CONFIGURATION OF THE ROLLOVER PROTECTION DEVICES. THE SAFETY BOARD HAS ADDRESSED 
THESE ISSUES IN A SPECIAL INVESTIGATION ON CARGO TANK ROLLOVER PROTECTION. THE RELEASE 
OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS IN EACH OF THE SEVEN ACCIDENTS OCCURRED BECAUSE CLOSURE 
FITTINGS ON TOP OF THE TANKS WERE EITHER DAMAGED OR FORCED OPEN AFTER STRIKING THE 
GROUND OR OBJECTS ALONG THE ROADWAY. THE CLOSURE FITTINGS WERE VULNERABLE TO DAMAGE 
BECAUSE THE ROLLOVER PROTECTION GUARDS STRUCTURALLY FAILED IN THREE OF THE ACCIDENTS 
(ALBUQUERQUE. NEW MEXICO; HAMILTON, OHIO; AND ETHELSVILLE, ALABAMA), AND WERE NOT 
ADEQUATELY SHIELDED FROM EXTERNAL IMPACTS IN THE REMAINING FOUR ACCIDENTS (LANTANA. 
FLORIDA; EDENTON, NORTH CAROLINA; COLUMBUS. GEORGIA; AND BRONX. NEW YORK). 

b j * - m u M a«- Overall Statua Priority 

Recommendation # H-92-001 0AA class ii 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: PROVIDE 
CARGO TANK MANUFACTURERS WITH SPECIFIC WRITTEN GUIDANCE ABOUT (A) THE FACTORS AND 
ASSUMPTIONS THAT MUST BE CONSIDERED WHEN CALCULATING THE LOADS ON CARGO TANK 
ROLLOVER PROTECTION DEVICES IN DETERMINING COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING DEPARTMENT OF 
TRANSPORTATION PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; AND (B) ACCEPTABLE MEANS TO SHEILD AND PROTECT 
THE TOP-MOUNTED CLOSURE FITTINGS ON ALL BULK LIQUID CARGO TANKS. 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 

b j a- * LJA**** Overall Status Priority 

Recommendation # H-92-002 0AA class 11 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: ASSIST THE 
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION TO EVALUATE THE DESIGN OF THE ROLLOVER PROTECTION 
DEVICES INSTALLED ON ALL CARGO TANKS MANUFACTURED BY THE ACRO TRAILER COMPANY AND BY 
NEW PROGRESS. INCORPORATED, TO DETERMINE IF THE CARGO TANKS COMPLY WITH EXISTING 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION STANDARDS. 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 

r* -m m., ^ **-. Ovarall Status Priority 

Recommendation # H-92-003 0AA class 11 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: ASSIST THE 
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION TO IMPROVE THE PERFORMANCE OF THE ROLLOVER PROTECTION 
DEVICES ON BULK LIQUID CARGO TANKS BY: MODELING AND ANALYZING THE FORCES THAT CAN ACT 
UPON ROLLOVER PROTECTION DEVICES DURING A ROLLOVER ACCIDENT. 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 



Page 6 



Digitized by 



Google 



57 



Recommendation Report 

Wodrwaday, May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1/1/M- 5/31/97 ADDRESSEE:RSPA 

Overall Status Priority 

Recommendation # H-92-004 0AA class ii 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: ASSIST THE 
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION TO IMPROVE THE PERFORMANCE OF THE ROLLOVER PROTECTION 
DEVICES ON BULK LIQUID CARGO TANKS BY: PROMULGATING PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR 
ROLLOVER PROTECTION DEVICES THAT ARE BASED ON THE ENGINEERING MODELING AND ANALYIS 
CONDUCTED IN RESPONSE TO SAFETY RECOMMENDATIONS H-92-03. 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 

-. * m ua *a*« OvarallStatua Priority 

Recommendation # h-92-oos 0AA class n 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: ASSIST THE 
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION TO IMPROVE THE PERFORMANCE OF THE ROLLOVER PROTECTION 
DEVICES ON BULK LIQUID CARGO TANKS BY: PHASING OUT FROM HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SERVICE THE 
USE OF ALL CARGO TANKS THAT FAIL TO MEET THE NEW PERFORMANCE STANDARDS PROMULGATED IN 
RESPONSE TO SAFETY RECOMMENDATION H-92-4. 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 

Recommendation # H-92-005 QAA class ii 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: IMPLEMENT, 
IN COOPERATION WITH THE FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION, A PROGRAM TO COLLECT 
INFORMATION NECESSARY TO IDENTIFY PATTERNS OF CARGO TANK EQUIPMENT FAILURES, INCLUDING 
THE REPORTING OF ALL ACCIDENTS INVOLVING A DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION SPECIFICATION 
CARGO TANK. 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 



Digitized by 



Google 



58 



Recommendation Report 

Wednesday, May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1/1/88 - 5/31/97 ADDRESSEE:RSPA 

Log Number H-0573 

Issue Date 10/4/93 ROCKVILLE MD 5/12/93 

ABOUT 6:55 A.M. ON MAY 12, 1993, A FIRE STARTED AS GASOLINE WAS BEING TRANSFERRED FROM A 
TANK TRUCK TO AN UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK ADJACENT TO A MAINTENANCE BUILDING AT THE 
BROOKE MANOR COUNTRY CLUB IN ROCKVILLE, MONTGOMERY COUNTY, MARYLAND. UNITS FROM THE 
MONTGOMERY COUNTY FIRE-RESCUE SERVICE REPONDED TO THE FIRE. 

. A . „ U ~ MM Overall Status Priority 

Recommendation # h-93-034 oaa class ii 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RSPA: REQUIRE THAT THE REMOTE CONTROL MECHANISMS FOR 
INTERNAL SHUTOFF VALVES BE MARKED FOR EMERGENCY USE ON ALL CARGO TANKS AUTHORIZED FOR 
THE TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 



Page 8 



Digitized by 



Google 



Recommendation Report 

Wednesday. May 28. 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1/1/98 - 5/31/97 ADDRESSEE:RSPA 

Log Number H-0584A 

ISSuaDate 11/27/95 WHITE PLAINS NY 7/27/94 

ABOUT 12:30 A.M.. ON 7/27/94, A TRACTOR CARGO-TANK SEMITRAILER LOADED WITH 9.200 GALLONS OF 
PROPANE (LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS) & OPERATED BY SUBURBAN PARACO CORPORATION WAS 
TRAVELING EAST OF INTERSTATE 287 IN WHILE PLAINS, NEW YORK. THE TRUCK DRIFTED ACROSS THE 
LEFT LANE ONTO THE LEFT SHOULDER & STRUCK THE GUARDRAIL, THE TANK HIT A COLUMN OF THE 
GRANT AVENUE OVERPASS. THE TRACTOR & THE SEMITRAILER SEPARATED. & THE FRONT HEAD OF THE 
TANK FRACTURED. RELEASING THE PROPANE, WHICH VAPORIZED INTO GAS. THE RESULTING VAPOR 
CLOUD EXPANDED UNTIL IT FOUND A SOURCE OF IGNITION. WHEN IT IGNITED. ACCORDING TO AN 
EYEWITNESS. A FIREBALL ROSE 200 OR 300 HUNDRED FEET IN THE AIR. THE TANK WAS PROPELLED 
NORTHWARD ABOUT 300 FEET & LANDED ON A FRAME HOUSE. ENGULFING IT IN FLAMES. THE DRIVER 
WAS KILLED, 23 PEOPLE WERE INJURED, & AN AREA WITH A RADIUS OF APPROXIMATELY 400 FEET WAS 
ENGULFED BY FIRE. 

Overall Status Priority 

Recommendation # H-95-037 q^ class ii 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESP: IN COOPERATION WITH FHWA. STUDY METHODS DEVELOP 
STANDARDS TO IMPROVE THE CRASHWORTHINESS OF FRONT HEADS ON CARGO TANKS USED TO 
TRANSPORT LIQUEFIED FLAMMABLE GASES & POTENTIALLY LETHAL NONFLAMMABLE COMPRESSED 
GASES. 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 



Page 9 



Digitized by 



Google 



60 



Recommendation Report 

Wtdn — day. May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1/1/88- 8/31/97 ADORESSEE:RSPA 

Log Number I-0090B 

10/24/88 NEW ORLEANS LA 9/9/87 



ON SEPTEMBER 8, 1987, A NEW ORLEANS TERMINAL (NOT) CREW MOVED SIX TANK CARS OF BUTADIENE 
FROM THE NOTS OLIVER YARD IN NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA, AND AT 7:35 P.M. PLACED THEM ON TRACK 
NO. 3 OF THE CSX TRANSPORTATION'S (CSXT) TERMINAL JUNCTION INTERCHANGE YARD (INTERCHANGE 
YARD) FOR DELIVERY TO THE CSXT. ABOUT 1:50 A.M. ON SEPTEMBER 9. 1987, BUTADIENE LEAKING 
FROM ONE OF THE TANK CARS WAS IGNITED AND THE RESULTING FLAMES RISING ABOUT 100 FEET INTO 
THE AIR ENGULFED BOTH BRIDGE SPANS OF INTERSTATE 10. THE FIRE RECEDED TO THE LEAKING TANK 
CAR WHERE IT BURNED BENEATH THE TANK CAR UNTIL 1 :55 P.M. ON SEPTEMBER 10. 1987. DURING THE 
EMERGENCY, MORE THAN 200 CITY BLOCKS WERE EVACUATED AFFECTING 800 TO 1.000 RESIDENTS. 



Recommendation # i-88-ooe CUA class 11 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: DEFINE 
EXPLICITLY IN THE FINAL RULE OF DOCKET HM-126C THE INFORMATION THAT MUST BE PROVIDED TO 
CHEMTREC BEFORE A SHIPPER OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS CAN LIST ON ITS SHIPPING DOCUMENTS THE 
CHEMTREC EMERGENCY TELEPHONE NUMBER IN LIEU OF ITS 24-HOUR EMERGENCY TELEPHONE 
NUMBER. 

RSPA CLOSED - UNACCEPTABLE ACTION 1 1/16/89 



Digitized by 



Google 



61 



Recommendation Report 



y, May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1/1/88 - 5/31/97 ADDRESSEE:RSPA 

Log Number I-0096B 

» Date 3/23/90 COLUER COUNTY FL 11/30/88 



ABOUT 11:30 A.M.. ON NOVEMBER 30, 1988. A TRACTOR-FLATBED SEMITRAILER OPERATED BY HY YIELD 
BROMINE COMPANY OVERTURNED AT THE INTERSECTION OF TWO FARM ROADS IN A SPARSELY 
POPULATED AREA OF COLUER COUNTY, FLORIDA. THE SEMITRAILER WAS LOADED WITH 32 CYLINDERS 
OF A POISONOUS AND TOXIC BY INHALATION MIXTURE, 98 PERCENT METHYL BROMIDE AND 2 PERCENT 
CHLOROPICRIN. ELEVEN OF THE CYLINDERS WERE FULL, EACH CONTAINING ABOUT 1 ,500 POUNDS OF 
THE POISONOUS MIXTURE, AND THE REMAINDER OF THE CYUNDERS WERE PARTIALLY FULL OR EMPTY 
EXCEPT FOR RESIDUE. THE DRIVER HAD COMPLETED THE SECOND OF FOUR SCHEDULED STOPS WHEN 
THE ACCIDENT OCCURRED. 

Ovarall Status Priority 

Recommendation # i-90-oos q^^ class ii 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: REQUIRE 
ALL MANUFACTURERS OF DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (DOT) SPECIFICATION CONTAINERS THAT 
WERE NOT TESTED AND INSPECTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS, AND ALL 
THAT WERE PROPERLY TESTED BUT THAT FAILED TO MEET REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS TO RETEST 
RANDOMLY SELECTED CONTAINERS FROM EACH LOT OF THESE IDENTIFIED CONTAINERS IN 
ACCORDANCE WITH DOT REGULATORY PROCEDURES; AND TO NOTIFY THE OWNERS OF CONTAINERS IN 
LOTS THAT FAIL THE TESTS TO REMOVE DOT SPECIFICATION MARKINGS. 

RSPA CLOSED -ACCEPTABLE ALTERNATE ACTIO 7/28/95 



Recommendation # i-90-ooe ^^ class 11 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: MODIFY THE 
COMPLIANCE PROGRAM TO DETERMINE THAT CONTAINERS ARE REMOVED FROM USE IN 
TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS WHEN THOSE CONTAINERS ARE IDENTIFIED AS NOT 
MEETING SPECIFICATION REQUIREMENTS. 

RSPA CLOSED -ACCEPTABLE ALTERNATE ACTIO 7/28/95 

Recommendation # 1-90-007 ^g class m 

THE NTST RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: REQUIRE 
THAT ATTACHMENTS TO CYLINDERS BE DESIGNED TO REDUCE TO A MINIMUM THE RISK OF PUNCTURING 
OTHER CYUNDERS DURING TRANSPORTATION. 

RSPA CLOSED- ACCEPTABLE ACTION/SUPERSE 9/24/90 



Recommendation # i-90-oos q^ class n 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: REQUIRE 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS CARGO TO BE SECURED IN TRANSPORTATION WITH ADEQUATE CARGO 
RESTRAINT SYSTEMS TO PREVENT EJECTION OF CARGO FROM VEHICLES. 

RSPA OPEN -UNACCEPTABLE ACTION 



Digitized by 



Google 



62 



Recommendation Report 

WMnMday, May 28,1997 
ISSUE OATE:1/1/86- 8/31/97 AODRESSEE:RSPA 



Recommendation # i-90-oos 0UA class n 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: REQUIRE 
INDEPENDENT INSPECTIONS OF NEW AND RECONDITIONED LOW PRESSURE CYLINDERS THAT ARE 
CONSISTENT WITH THE PRESENT INDEPENDENT INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS FOR HIGH PRESSURE 
CYLINDERS. 

RSPA OPEN -UNACCEPTABLE ACTION 

-. ** m .*«*4« OvaraMStatua Priority 

Recommendation # 1-90-010 0UA class u 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: AMEND 
INSPECTION AND TESTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PRESSURE CYLINDERS TO MAKE THE REQUIREMENTS 
CLEAR AND CONSISTENT. 

RSPA OPEN - UNACCEPTABLE ACTION 



Recommendation # 1-00-011 CUA class n 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: DEVELOP 
AND IMPLEMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVING THE VISIBILITY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF HAZARDOUS 
MATERIALS PLACARDS. CONSIDERING THE ORIENTATION OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS. 

RSPA CLOSED - UNACCEPTABLE ACTION 7/28/95 

» _. A1 .««^« Overall Statua Priority 

Recommendation # 1-90-012 CR class u 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: REQUIRE A 
MEANS OF IDENTIFICATION FOR CYLINDERS AND OTHER COMPARABLE CONTAINERS TO DISTINGUISH 
THOSE THAT CONTAIN SIGNIFICANT QUANTITIES OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS FROM THOSE THAT ARE 
EMPTY (EXCEPT FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESIDUE), WHEN IN TRANSPORTATION. 

RSPA CLOSED -RECONSIDERED 9/24/90 



Page 12 



Digitized by 



Google 



Recommendation Report 

Wsdn— day, May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1/1/88- 5/31/97 AOORESSEE:RSPA 

Log Number 1-0100 

10/28/92 CALHOUN TN 12/11/90 



ABOUT 9:10 A.M. ON DECEMBER 11, 1990. A TRACTOR-SEMITRAILER IN THE SOUTHBOUND LANES OF 1-75 
NEAR CALHOUN, TENNESSEE, STRUCK THE REAR OF ANOTHER TRACTOR-SEMITRAILER THAT HAD 
SLOWED BECAUSE OF FOG. THE UNINJURED TRUCKDRIVERS EXITED THEIR VEHICLES AND ATTEMPTED 
TO CHECK FOR DAMAGE. AFTER THE INITIAL COLLISION, AN AUTOMOBILE STRUCK THE REAR OF THE 
SECOND TRUCK AND WAS IN TURN STRUCK IN THE REAR BY ANOTHER TRACTOR-SEMITRAILER. FIRE 
ENSUED AND CONSUMED TWO TRUCKS AND THE AUTOMOBILE. MEANWHILE, IN THE NORTHBOUND 
LANES OF 1-75, AN AUTOMOBILE STRUCK THE REAR OF ANOTHER AUTOMOBILE THAT HAD SLOWED 
BECAUSE OF FOG. THEN, A PICKUP TRUCK AND TWO OTHER AUTOMOBILES BECAME INVOLVED IN THE 
CHAIN-REACTION REAR END COLLISION. NO FATALTIES. INJURIES. OR FIRES OCCURRED. 
SUBSEQUENTLY, 99 VEHICLES IN THE NORTHBOUND AND SOUTHBOUND LANES WERE INVOLVED IN 
MULTIPLE-VEHICLE CHAIN-REACTION COLLISIONS THAT KILLED 12 PEOPLE AND INJURED 42 OTHERS. 

Overall Status Priority 

Recommendation # 1-92-001 0AA class ii 

THE NSTB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: REQUIRE 
THAT ATTACHMENTS TO ALL U.S. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION-AUTHORIZED HAZARDOUS 
MATERIALS PACKAGINGS BE DESIGNED TO MINIMIZE THE RISK OF PUNCTURING OTHER HAZARDOUS 
MATERIALS PACKAGINGS DURING AN ACCIDENT SITUATION. 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 

» j *. * ,^^ Overall Status Priority 

Recommendation # 1-02-002 0AA class ii 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: REVISE 
REQUIREMENTS FOR PRESSURE-RELIEF VENTING ON U.S. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
SPECIFICATION 57 PORTABLE TANKS USED TO TRANSPORT DICUMYL PEROXIDE AND OTHER PRODUCTS 
WITH SIMILAR RAPID DECOMPOSITION CHARACTERISTICS TO ENSURE THAT THE PRESSURE-RELIEF 
SYSTEMS PREVENT OVERPRESSURE RUPTURE OF TANKS FROM A RAPID PRODUCT DECOMPOSITION 
REACTION. 

RSPA OPENnACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 



13 



Digitized by 



Google 



64 



Recommendation Report 

Wednesday, May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1/1/88 - 5/31/97 ADDRESSEE:RSPA 

Log Number 1-0101 

Issue Date 11/30/93 DES MOINES IA 3/1/93 

ABOUT 9:40 A.M. ON MARCH 1, 1993, A DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (DOT) SPECIFICATION 3AA 
COMPRESSED GAS CYLINDER FILLED WITH 600 POUNDS OF POISONOUS ANHYDROUS HYDROGEN 
CHLORIDE GAS BEGAN LEAKING INSIDE A TRACTOR SEMITRAILER ON INTERSTATE 35 (I-35) NEAR DES 
MONIES, IOWA. THE ESCAPING GAS COMBINED WITH WATER VAPOR IN THE AIR TO FORM A WHITE 
VAPOR CLOUD OF HYDROCHLORIC ACID. THE INTERNAL PRESSURE IN THE CYLINDER WAS CALCULATED 
TO BE ABOUT 354 PSIG WHEN THE LEAK BEGAN. THE DRIVER OF THE TRACTOR SEMITRAILER PULLED 
THE VEHICLE ONTO THE SHOULDER OF THE HIGHWAY AFTER HE RECEIVED A CALL ON THE CB RADIO 
FROM A PERSON WHO OBSERVED WHITE VAPOR, INITIALLY THOUGHT TO BE SMOKE, COMING FROM 
INSIDE THE SEMITRAILER. THE DRIVER CALLED THE LOCAL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PHONE NUMBER. 
AFTER THE EMERGENCY RESPONSE PERSONNEL ARRIVED AND IDENTIFIED THE HAZARDOUS MATERIAL 
THAT WAS BEING CARRIED IN THE VEHICLE, THEY CLOSED A 2-MILE SECTION OF 1-35 AND EVACUATED 
ABOUT 500 PERSONS. THERE WERE NO SERIOUS INJURIES. 

-i *•«■*« mm Overall Status Priority 

Recommendation # 1-93-001 0AA class n 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION. 
COORDINATE WITH THE COMPRESSED GAS ASSOCIATION, INC., IN AMENDING PAMPHLET C-6, STANDARD 
FOR VISUAL INSPECTION OF COMPRESSED GAS CYLINDERS, TO REQUIRE THE USE OF A THREAD GAUGE, 
SUCH AS AN L9 OR EQUIVALENT, TO MEASURE THE INTERIOR SECTION NECK THREADS FOR 
ACCEPTANCE OR REJECTION DURING PERIODIC EXAMINATION OF CYLINDERS THAT ARE USED TO 
TRANSPORT GASES WITH CORROSIVE PROPERITES. 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 

n j a. .« .****« Ovarall Status Priority 

Recommendation # 1-93-002 0AA class 11 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: PROHIBIT 
THE USE OF CYLINDERS THAT DO NOT MEET THE ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA FOR CYUNDER NECK THREADS 
ESTABLISHED IN CGA PAMPHLET C-6. STANDARD FOR VISUAL INSPECITON OF COMPRESSED GAS 
CYLINDERS. 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 



Page 14 



Digitized by 



Google 



Recommendation Report 



iMUftMi 77144* ALTOOMA IA 

ABOUT 11:44 AJ* CENTRAL DAYLXCTSAVMGSTME ON JULY3& 19* 

LTD. (IMS) FRBGHT TRAMS EXTRA 470 WEST AM> EXTRA 406 EAST COLUDED HEAOOM WTTHMTHE 
YABDUmsaFMJtXMKKMm**BajT10mJESEASXaFaESWM^KMm. ALLS LOCOMOTIVE 
UMTS FROM BOTH TRAMS. 11 CARS OF EXTRA 406 EAST. AM) 3 CARS. MCLUOMG 2 TANK CARS 
COffTAMMG DEVOURED ALCOHOL. OF EXTRA 470 WEST DERAILED THE DENATURED ALCOHOL, WHBH 
WAS RELEASED THROUGH THE PRESSURE REUEF VALVES AND THE MANNAY OOMES OF THE TWO 
OERAUED TANK CARS. WASK3MTED BY THE HRERESULTMG FROM THE COLLISION OF THE 
LOCOMOTIVES. BOTH CREWMEMBERS OF EXTRA 470 WEST WERE FATALLY MJURED; THE TWO 
CREWMEMBERSOF EXTRA 406 EAST WERE ONLY SLIGHTLY MJUREO THE ESTMATED DAMAGE 
(MCLUOMG LADMG) AS A RESULT OF THB ACCDEHT EXCEEDED $1 MUJOfL 



OUA CLASS! 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS AOMMSTRATION: ESTABLISH 
PROCEDURES THAT REOURE CARRERS REPORTMG HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MCDENTS UNDER THE 
PROVISIONS OF 49 CFR 171.16 TO NOTFY SUPPERS WHOSE HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SMPMENTS ARE 
MVOLVED 

RSPA OPEN- UNACCEPTABLE ACTION 

|# R-St-053 



OAA CLASS! 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ASSIST AND 

COOPERATE WJTH THE FEDERAL RALROAD ADMM6TRATION M AMENDMG 49 CFR PART 179 TO 
REOURE THAT CLOSURE FTTTMGS ON HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RAM. TANKS BE DESIGNED TO MAMTAM 
THBR MTEGRTTYtlACaDENTS THAT ARE TYPICALLY SURVTVABLE BY THE RAM. TANK. 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 

RBCOfTMTtorKUYfJOfl # R-BB-054 q^ CLASS I 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMMBTRATIOR ASSIST AND 
COOPERATE WTTH THE FEDERAL RALROAD ADMM6TRATION M AMENDMG 49 CFR PART 179 TO 
REQUIRE THAT TANK CAR DESIGNERS AND MANUFACTURERS DETERMME AND PROVIOE THE 
SPECIFICATIONS TO SECURE CLOSURE FITTINGS. SUCH AS MMMUM TORQUE VALUES FOR SEALMG 
BOLTED CLOSURES AND GASKET SPECIFICATIONS 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE 



31 



Digitized by 



Google 



86 



Recommendation Report 

Wadns s day, May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1/1/88- 5/31/97 ADDRESSEErRSPA 

Log Number R-0620D 

Issue Date 2/12/90 HELENA MT 2/2/89 

ABOUT 4:30 A.M. MOUNTAIN STANDARD TIME ON FEBRUARY 2, 1989. FREIGHT CARS FROM MONTANA RAIL 
UNK INC. (MRL) WESTBOUND TRAIN 1-121-28 (TRAIN 121) ROLLED EASTWARD DOWN A MOUNTAIN GRADE 
AND STRUCK A STOPPED HELPER LOCOMOTIVE CONSIST, HELPER 1, IN HELENA. MONTANA THE 
LOCOMOTIVE CONSIST OF TRAIN 121 INCLUDED THREE HELPER UNITS (HELPER 2) AND THREE ROAD 
UNITS POSITIONED AT THE HEAD END OF A 49-CAR TRAIN. THE CREW MEMBERS OF TRAIN 121 HAD 
UNCOUPLED THE LOCOMOTIVE UNITS FROM THE TRAIN TO REARRANGE THE LOCOMOTIVE CONSIST 
WHILE STOPPED ON A MOUNTAIN GRADE. IN THE COLLISION AND DERAILMENT. 15 CARS FROM TRAIN 121 
DERAILED. INCLUDING 3 TANK CARS CONTAINING HYDROGEN PEROXIDE. ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL. AND 
ACETONE. HAZARDOUS MATERIAL RELEASED IN THE ACCIDENT LATER RESULTED IN A FIRE AND 
EXPLOSIONS. ABOUT 3.500 RESIDENTS OF HELENA WERE EVACUATED. TWO CREWMEMBERS OF 
HELPER 1 WERE ONLY SLIGHTLY INJURED. THE ESTIMATED DAMAGE (INCLUDING CLEAN-UP AND 
LADING) AS A RESULT OF THIS ACCIDENT EXCEEDED $6 MILLION. 

n «„«™ Overall Status Priority 

Recommendation # R-89-083 OUA class n 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: DEVELOP 
PROCEDURES TO UPDATE AND CORRECT. IN A TIME MANNER, ERRORS IN THE EMERGENCY RESPONSE 
GUIDE BOOK. 

RSPA OPEN - UNACCEPTABLE ACTION 



Digitized by 



Google 



67 



Recommendation Report 

Wtdnasday, May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1/1/88 - 5/31/97 ADDRESSEE:RSPA 

Log Number R-0627 

Issue Date 7/1/91 

THE SAFETY BOARD HAS HAD A LONG-STANDING CONCERN ABOUT EMERGENCY RESPONSE 
MANAGEMENT OF RAILROAD ACCIDENTS INVOLVING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND THE HAZARDOUS 
MATERIALS TRAINING OF RAILROAD PERSONNEL BETWEEN 1977 AND 1987, THE SAFETY BOARD 
INVESTIGATED SEVERAL RAILROAD ACCIDENTS AND INCIDENTS INVOLVING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS IN 
WHICH THE LACK OF ADEQUATE WRITTEN EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLANS AND THE LACK OF PRACTICE 
WITH THE EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROCEDURES BETWEEN THE RAILROADS AND THE COMMUNITY 
PRESENTED MAJOR SAFETY PROBLEMS. IN THESE ACCIDENTS/INCIDENTS, THE LACK OF PLANNING (A) 
HINOERED EFFORTS MADE BY COMMUNITY RESPONSE PERSONNEL TO HANDLE THE EMERGENCY AND 
TO MINIMIZE THE RISK TO THE PUBLIC. (B) INCREASED THE SEVERITY OF THE DAMAGE OR 
CONSEQUENCES RESULTING FROM THE ACCIDENT, AND/OR (C) LENGTHENED THE DURATION OF THE 
EVACUATION PERIOD AND DISRUPTION TO BUSINESSES. AS A RESULT OF ITS INVESTIGATIONS, THE 
BOARD ISSUED SAFETY RECOMMENDATIONS TO VARIOUS AGENCIES, ORGANIZATIONS, AND RAILROADS 
TO IMPROVE THE SAFETY OF THE TRANSPORT OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS BY RAIL. 

« _. A « * ~^^ Ovarall Status Priority 

Recommendation # R-91-011 CNLA class 11 

THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: ESTABLISH 
A WORKING GROUP. WITH THE ASSISTANCE OF THE FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION. THE 
ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN RAILROADS. THE CHEMICAL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION, THE 
AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE, AND THE NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION. TO 
EXPEDITIOUSLY IMPROVE THE PACKAGING OF THE MORE DANGEROUS PRODUCTS (SUCH AS THOSE 
THAT ARE HIGHLY FLAMMABLE OR TOXIC. OR POSE A THREAT TO HEALTH THROUGH CONTAMINATION OF 
THE ENVIRONMENT) BY (A) DEVELOPING A UST OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS THAT SHOULD BE 
TRANSPORTED ONLY IN PRESSURE TANK CARS WITH HEAD SHIELD PROTECTION AND THERMAL 
PROTECTION (IF NEEDED); AND (B) ESTABLISHING A WORKING AGREEMENT TO SHIP THE UST 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS IN SUCH TANK CARS. 

RSPA CLOSED -NO LONGER APPLICABLE 6/28/94 



33 



Digitized by 



Google 



68 



Recommendation Report 

Wednesday, May 28, 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1/1/88-S/31/97 AODRESSE&RSPA 



Log Number R-0640A 
12/31/92 



THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD CONDUCTED A SPECIAL INVESTIGATION ON THE 
INSPECTION AND TESTING OF RAILROAD TANK CARS IN RESPONSE TO TWO ACCIDENTS IN WHICH 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS WERE RELEASED BECAUSE OF A STRUCTURAL FAILURE OF THE TANK CARS. 
THE FIRST ACCIDENT OCCURRED ON JANUARY 18, 1992, WHEN THREE TANK CARS IN A NORFOLK 
SOUTHERN CORPORATION FREIGHT TRAIN DERAILED NEAR DRAGON. MISSISSIPPI. THE DERAILED TANK 
CARS (UTLX 89170, CONX 9101. AND CHVX 180130) EACH CONTAINED MORE THAN 30.000 GALLONS OF 
LIQUEFIED PROPANE. WHICH IS REGULATED AS A FLAMMABLE GAS BY THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF 
TRANSPORTATION (DOT). THE A-END OF CONX 9101 FRACTURED AND SEPARATED ALONG A 
CIRCUMFERENTIAL WELD WHERE THE TRANSITION SECTION IS JOINED TO THE LARGE DIAMETER 
CYLINDER OF THE TANK, RESULTING IN THE DERAILMENT OF CONX 9101 AND THE TANK CARS COUPLED 
TO EACH END OF CONX 9101 . THE SEPARATION RESULTED IN THE RELEASE AND IGNITION OF THE 
ENTIRE LOAD OF PROPANE. METALLURGICAL EXAMINATION SHOWED THAT THE DISCOLORED AREA OF 
THE FRACTURE SURFACE WAS EXTENSIVELY OXIDIZED, WHICH IS INDICATIVE OF LONG-TERM EXPOSURE 
TO A CORROSIVE MEDIUM AND THE PRESENCE OF A PREEXISTING CRACK. A SECOND ACCIDENT 
OCCURRED ON MARCH 25. 1992, IN KETTLE FALLS, WASHINGTON. AND INVOLVED A DOT SPECIFICATION 
1 1 1A100W2 TANK CAR THAT CONTAINED ABOUT 13.000 GALLSONS OF SULFURIC ACID. THIS TANK CAR 
WAS BUILT AND OPERATED BY THE UNION TANK CAR COMPANY (UNION). THE TANK CAR CRACKED AT 
THE BOTTOM CENTER OF THE TANK ALONG A CIRCUMFERENTIAL WELD, RESULTING IN THE RELEASE OF 
ALL OF THE SULFURIC ACID. THERE WAS METALLURGICAL EVIDENCE OF A PREEXISTING CRACK IN THE 
AREA OF THE FAILURE. 



Recommendation # R-92-023 



Overall Status Priority 

OAA CLASS U 



THE NTSB RECOMMENDS THAT THE RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION: DEVELOP 
AND PROMULGATE. WITH THE FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION, REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PERIODIC 
TESTING AND INSPECTION OF RAIL TANK CARS THAT HELP TO ENSURE THE DETECTION OF CRACKS 
BEFORE THEY PROPAGATE TO CRITICAL LENGTH BY ESTABLISHING INSPECTION INTERVALS THAT ARE 
BASED ON THE DEFECT SIZE DETECTABLE BY THE INSPECTION METHOD USED. THE STRESS LEVEL, AND 
THE CRACK PROPAGATION CHARACTERISTICS OF THE STRUCTURAL COMPONENT (REQUIREMENT 
BASED ON A DAMAGE-TOLERANCE APPROACH). 

RSPA OPEN-ACCEPTABLE RESPONSE \ 



Page 34 



Digitized by 



Google 



68 



Recommendation Report 

Wednesday. May 2S. 1997 
ISSUE DATE:1tt/tt- 5/31/97 ADORESSEE:RSPA 

Log Number R-0650A 

3/2/95 CHATTANOOGA TN 



ON 6/6/94. A CONDUCTOR FOR THE NORFOLK SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY DETECTED PRODUCT 
LEAKING FROM THE BOTTOM OF TANK CAR UTLX 79211 IN THE NORFOLK SOUTHERN HARRY DEBUTTS 
YARD IN CHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE THE TANK CAR CONTAINED 12,184 GALLONS OF A 75-PERCENT 
CONCENTRATION OF ARSENIC ACID. WHICH IS CLASSIFIED AS A POISONOUS MATERIAL & ALSO 
DESIGNATED AS A MARINE POLLUTANT UNDER THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION HAZARDOUS 
MATERIALS REGULATIONS 



Recommendation # R-95-011 ^ class ■ 

THE NTS8 RECOMMENDS THAT THE RSPA: REQUIRE. IN COOPERATION WITH THE FRA, THAT THE 
SHIPPER OR PARTY USING A TANK CAR TO TRANSPORT MATERIALS CORROSIVE TO THE TANK 
DETERMINE THE PERIOOIC INSPECTION INTERVAL & TESTING TECHNIQUE FOR LININGS AND COATINGS. 
AND REQUIRE THAT THIS INFO BE PROVIDED TO PARTIES RESPONSIBLE FOR THE INSPECTION AND 
TESTING OF TANK CARS 

RSPA CLOSED - ACCEPTABLE 2/10/97 



Page 35 



Digitized by 



Google 



70 

Question 2. Mr. Chipkevich, your testimony lists four areas where the Safety 
Board believe additional action should be taken to enhance the safe transportation 
of hazardous materials including improving railroad tank cars. When I was at the 
Board I supported railroad tank car improvements and I want to make sure that 
the NTSB recommendations in this area are being taken seriously. 

Question 2a. Is RSPA actively addressing Safety Board recommendations to im- 
prove railroad tank cars? Also, do you have any idea as to the railroad tank car pop- 
ulation that are affected by your recommendations? 

Answer. The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) has been working with RSPA 
to address several safety recommendations in this area. Improvements have in- 
cluded headshield protection requirements for all flammable gas cars, discontinu- 
ance of use of tank cars with bottom man ways, and completion of a risk assessment 
program resulting in requirements for the most dangerous materials to be trans- 
ported in the tank cars that perform best in accidents. Following several tank car 
failures, the Safety Board has called for improved testing requirements to determine 
tank car integrity and has been pleased that the FRA agrees with the Board's rec- 
ommendation. The FRA has taken action to require the use of non-destructive test- 
ing techniques and is working toward a damage tolerance requirement. When imple- 
mented, a damage tolerance approach would match non-destructive test capabilities 
with appropriate frequency to detect defects before they reach critical size. 

The population of the nation's railroad tank cars numbers about 275,000. The 
Safety Board does not have data on the number of tank cars affected by our rec- 
ommendations. 

Question 2b. What has [been] RSPA's acceptance rate for NTSB hazardous mate- 
rials safety recommendations for the past several years? You can provide that for 
the record if necessary? 

Answer. For safety recommendations issued between January 1988 and May 
1997, 34 safety recommendations were issued to RSPA. RSPA's acceptance rate is 
71.88 percent. 

Question 3. The Safety Board has also been thoroughly involved in improving the 
crash worthiness of cargo tanks used on the highways. 

Question 3a. On page 4 of your testimony, you indicate that RSPA and FHWA 
have been working on improving the performance [of] bulk liquid cargo tanks since 
1992. Would you briefly aiscuss the Safety Board's recommendations in this area? 

Answer. On February 4, 1992, the Safety Board adopted a special investigation 
report on rollover protection devices on highway cargo tank vehicles. The rollover 
protection devices are intended to protect fittings and valves on the top of the cargo 
tank from damage in rollover accidents. As a result of its investigation the Safety 
Board concluded that the regulatory performance standards for rollover protection 
devices on bulk liquid cargo tanks may not be sufficient to prevent structural failure 
during a rollover accident. Consequently, the Safety Board recommended that the 
RSPA and FHWA jointly improve the performance of the rollover protection devices 
by (1) modeling and analyzing the forces that can act upon rollover protection de- 
vices during a rollover accident, (2) issue performance standards for rollover protec- 
tion devices that are based on engineering modeling and analysis, and (3) phaseout 
from hazardous materials service the use of all cargo tanks that fail to meet the 
new performance standards. 

Question 3b. Is there any reason to believe that the 5-year-old recommendations 
are any nearer to being implemented to the NTSB's satisfaction within the next 
year or two? 

Answer. The Safety Board does not have any information from RSPA or the 
FHWA to indicate these recommendations will be implemented within the next 2 
years. 

VALUJET ACCIDENT 

Question 4. On May 11, 1996, a ValuJet aircraft crashed shortly after takeoff into 
the Florida Everglades Swamp. Both pilots, three flight attendants, and all 105 pas- 
sengers were killed. Before the accident, the flightcrew reported to Air Traffic Con- 
trol that it was experiencing smoke in the cabin and cockpit. Twenty days after the 
accident, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) issued a series of urgent 
recommendations to the FAA and RSPA dealing with the transport of certain haz- 
ardous materials (oxidants) on aircraft. 

Question 4a. Is the NTSB satisfied with RSPA's response to the ValuJet rec- 
ommendations? 

Answer. The Safety Board issued two urgent recommendations to the RSPA fol- 
lowing the crash of ValuJet flight 592 in tne Everglades near Miami, Florida, on 
May 11, 1996. 



Digitized by 



Google 



71 

Safety Recommendation A-96-29 asked that the RSPA, in cooperation with the 
FAA, permanently prohibit the transportation of chemical oxygen generators as 
cargo on board any passenger or cargo aircraft when the generators have passed 
their expiration dates and the chemical core has not been depleted. RSPA published 
a final rule on December 30, 1996, that permanently prohibited all chemical oxygen 
generators as cargo in passenger-carrying aircraft; however, this prohibition does 
not apply to cargo aircraft. The Safety Board believes this prohibition should also 
apply to cargo aircraft. We are not aware of any planned regulatory action to ban 
these generators on cargo aircraft. 

Safety Recommendation A-96-30 asked that RSPA, in cooperation with the FAA, 
prohibit the transportation of oxidizers and oxidizing materials (e.g., nitric acid) in 
cargo compartments that do not have fire or smoke detection systems. On December 
30, 1996, RSPA issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) to prohibit the 
transportation of oxidizers in class D compartments in passenger-carrying aircraft 
and cargo aircraft. The Board believes the NPRM is responsive to the recommenda- 
tion ana has provided its comments to RSPA. The Safety Board will continue to 
monitor RSPA s progress in publishing final rules that address the recommendation. 



Response to Written Questions Submitted by Hon. Ernest F. Hollings to 

Robert Chipkevich 

Question 1. In the wake of the ValuJet crash, NTSB recommended, and RSPA 
concurred in banning all oxygen generators from being shipped as cargo on any pas- 
senger carrying aircraft. Are there any similar steps that could be taken to reduce 
the risk of this Kind of tragedy? 

Answer. There are steps that should be taken to reduce the risk of this kind of 
tragedy. The FAA should be urged to require fire/smoke detection and Ore extin- 
guishment systems for all class D cargo compartments. 

On August 8, 1984, the FAA issued a notice of proposed rulemaking, Notice 84- 
11, that addressed the problem of fire containment in cargo compartments by speci- 
fying a new test method for determining flame penetration resistance of compart- 
ment liners. When the Board provided comments on the rulemaking on October 9, 
1984, it advised the FAA that while proposed flame penetration tests were more 
stringent than previous ones, a fire should not be allowed to persist in any State 
of intensity in an airplane without the knowledge of the flightcrew, and that a fire 
detection system should be required in class D cargo compartments. On May 16, 
1986, the FAA issued a final rule to amend fire safety standards for cargo or bag- 
gage compartments. The final rule adopted more stringent cargo liner burn-through 
tests and smaller class D cargo compartments, but rejected a requirement for fire 
detection systems in class D cargo compartments. 

After a February 3, 1988, in-flight fire on board American Airlines flight 132, a 
DC-9-83, while en route to Nashville, Tennessee from Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas, 
the Safety Board stated that because the cargo compartment was not equipped with 
fire or smoke detection systems, the cockpit crew had no way of detecting the threat 
to the safety of the aircraft until smoke and fumes reached the passenger cabin. 
After the smoke was detected in the passenger cabin, the cockpit crew had no means 
to identify the location of the fire. Furthermore, because the cargo compartment was 
not equipped with a fire extinguishment system, the cockpit crew had no means 
available to extinguish or suppress the fire in the cargo compartment. 

As a result of the accident on American Airlines 132, the Safety Board on October 
24, 1988, uiiged the FAA to: 

Require fire/smoke detection systems for all class D cargo compartments. (A- 
88-122) 
Reauire a fire extinguishment system for all class D cargo compartments. (A- 

On August 10, 1993, the FAA responded to Safety Recommendation A-88-122 by 
stating that it did not believe that fire/smoke detection and fire extinguishment sys- 
tems would provide a significant degree of protection to occupants of airplanes and 
that it had terminated its rulemaking action to require such systems. On October 
14, 1993. Safety Recommendations A-88-122 and -123 were classified "Closed-Un- 
acceptable Action." In its letter, the Board expressed concern about yet another in- 
flight fire in a class D cargo compartment that went undetected by the flight crew. 
This fire occurred on February 1, 1991, aboard a USAir DC-9 aircraft while enroute 
to Greenville, North Carolina from Charlotte, North Carolina. The fire went unde- 
tected until after the plane landed in Greenville. 

Again, on May 11, 1996, the cargo compartment where a fire likely occurred on 
board ValuJet flight 592 was a class D cargo compartment and was not equipped 



Digitized by 



Google 



72 

with fire or smoke detection systems. As a result, on May 8, 1997, the Board placed 
the Safety Recommendations A-88-22 and -23, urging the FAA to require fire/ 
smoke detection and fire extinguishment systems for all class D cargo compart- 
ments, on their "Most Wanted" list of safety recommendations. 

Question 2. Should RSPA review the types and quantities of materials that may 
be shipped on aircraft with an eye toward reducing the number of such materials? 
Answer. A review of matter is currently being proposed by RSPA, and the Safety 
Board is supporting this proposal. The Safety Board issued a recommendation in 
1988 urging tne FAA to consider the effects of authorized hazardous materials cargo 
in fires Tor all types of cargo compartments, and to require appropriate safety sys- 
tems to protect the aircraft and occupants supporting. 

In that recommendation we noted that tne FAA's May 16, 1986, final rule on 
cargo compartment fire protection research and testing did not consider what effect 
hazardous materials involvement in a cargo fire could have on the capability of a 
cargo compartment to contain an in-flight Are. The FAA had concluded that the ef- 
fects of hazardous materials were beyond the scope of its rulemaking notice. How- 
ever, as a result of the in-flight fire aboard flight 132, the Safety Board noted that 
hazardous materials involvement in a cargo compartment fire must be considered 
in all cargo compartment fire penetration safety standards, and that hazardous ma- 
terials that the FAA determines present unacceptable threats should be prohibited. 
Also as a result of the accident on American Airlines 132, the Safety Board on 
October 24, 1988, urged the FAA to: 

Consider the effects of authorized hazardous materials cargo in fires for all 

types of cargo compartments, and require appropriate safety systems to protect 

the aircraft and occupants. (A-&8-127) 
On March 17, 1994, after no response to a final follow-up letter to the FAA, Safety 
Recommendation A-88-127 was classified "Closed-Unacceptable Action." 

On May 31, 1996, as a result of the accident involving ValuJet flight 592, the 
Board made recommendations to the FAA and RSPA urging them to cooperate to: 

. . . prohibit the transportation of oxidizers and oxidizing materials (e.g., nitric 

acid) in cargo compartments that do not have fire or smoke detection systems. 

(A-96-28 (FAA) and -30 (RSPA)) 
On December 30. 1996, RSPA issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) 
that proposes prohibiting the carriage of oxidizers, including compressed oxygen, in 
passenger carrying aircraft and in class D compartments of cargo aircraft. Safety 
Recommendations A-96-28 and 30 was classified "Open — Acceptable Response." The 
NPRM further proposes initiating a study to assess the risks associated with the 
transportation of hazardous materials, other than oxidizers, in aircraft cargo com- 
partments. This proposed study will address the Board's Safety Recommendation A- 
88-127 which was closed as unacceptable action in 1994. (This urged the FAA to 
consider the effects of authorized hazardous materials cargo in fires for all types of 
cargo compartments, and require appropriate safety systems to protect the aircraft 
and occupants.) 



Response to Written Questions Submitted by Hon. Daniel K. Inouye to 
Robert Chipkevich 

Question. Do you have any opinion as to whether RSPA requires additional pre- 
emptive authority in light of the D.C. Cir. case, Massachusetts v. DOT? 

Answer. In the past, the Safety Board has supported safety requirements for 
transporting hazardous materials intrastate at an equivalent safety level as re- 
quired for transporting those materials interstate. 

Knowing of large volumes of products and gases transported annually through 
pipelines and of the few pipeline related fatalities and injuries each year, one intu- 
itively perceives that pipeline transportation must be one of the safest means of 
transporting hazardous materials. However, documentation of this intuition contin- 
ues to be out of reach as the information needed to make such comparisons is not 
collected either individually of collectively by government or by industry. 

In 1969, the Safety Board recommended to the U .S. Department of Transportation 
that it needed to develop a uniform, cross-modal incident/accident reporting form ap- 
propriate for automatic data processing purposes. In 1971, the Safety Board looked 
specifically at the need to have comparable accident data on various surface mode 
transportation systems when considering the development of government policies 
and programs that affect freight transportation. In that report the Safety Board rec- 
ommended that the U.S. Department of Transportation develop and publish, on a 
regular basis, comparable data on the losses and loss rates associated with all 



Digitized by 



Google 



73 

modes of freight transportation. TYdn data should include losses in all forms: death, 
injury, property damage, and delays due to accidents. 

The Safety Board, in a report in which it attempted to use existing data to com- 
pare the safety experience of several liquid pipeline operators, used statistical data 
collected byboth the UJS. Department of Transportation and the U JS. Department 
of Energy. We concluded that the data available was insufficient to perform an effec- 
tive accident trend analysis or to properly evaluate operator performance. Because 
there is no effective means for comparing the safety performance among pipeline op- 
erators, the Safety Board recommended that the Research and Special Programs 
Administration of the DOT: 
P-96-1 

Develop within 1 year and implement within 2 years a comprehensive plan for 
the collection and use of gas and hazardous liquid pipeline accident data that 
details the type and extent of data to be collected, to provide the Research and 
Special Programs Administration with the capability to perform methodologi- 
cally sound accident trend analyses and evaluations of pipeline operator per- 
formance using normalized accident data. 



Response to Written Questions Submitted by Hon. Kay Bailey Hutchison to 

Clifford J. Harvison 

Question 1. In your testimony, you note that vou support the Alliance concept, but 
you believe that some safeguards are needed for carriers. What type of safeguards 
would you recommend? 

Answer. Under the "Alliance " concept, which has been forwarded to the Secretary 
of Transportation for publication as rulemaking (as mandated by HMTUSA), the 
program would embrace reciprocity (among participating states) in terms of motor 
carrier registration and permitting. As sucn, all a motor carrier need do is register 
(or apply for a permit) in its "base state" and that state's subsequent action would 
be binding on all other participating states. In the vernacular of the trucking indus- 
try, this is often referred to as "one stop shopping" for registration and permits. 

Obviously, the same mechanics of reciprocity would apply in the event that the 
"base state denied, revoked or suspended the application for registration or a per- 
mit. Such action would (effectively) put a trucking company out of business. 

NTTC is concerned that a single highly publicized accident (or a series of other- 
wise unrelated incidents) in a particular jurisdiction might trigger political pres- 
sures aimed at denying, revoking or suspending a carriers registration or permit. 
At the same time, we honor the tact that a earner, who repeatedly or wantonly dis- 
regards safety regulations should not be permitted to operate on the nation's public 
highways. 

Therefore, we believe that— prior to any denial, suspension or revocation of a car- 
rier's registration or permit — that the acting jurisdiction must be required to com- 
plete an administrative and/or judicial process (i.e. investigations, hearings, etc. to- 
gether with an avenue of appeal) prior to taking final action. 

I am pleased to report that, since my testimony, the leadership of the "Alliance" 
has agreed to the validity of my concerns, and has amended suggested statutory lan- 
guage which would "cure" the problem. I have been advised that this revised lan- 
guage will be forwarded to the Committee under the auspices of "Interested Parties 
For HMTA Reauthorization" group. 

Question 2. You also mentioned the need for a definition of "shipper" in the law. 
Do you have a specific definition? Have you discussed your proposal with the Na- 
tional Industrial Transportation League or others who represent shippers? 

Answer. The definition, proposed by NTTC, is as follows: 

(XXX) "Shipper" (or "offerer ") means, for the purposes of this Act, a person who 
owns and/or operates a facility where hazardous materials are loaded into 
packagings authorized by the Secretary and/or transportation equipment for the 
purposes of transportation." 

While I have not contacted the National Industrial Transportation League, I have 
discussed this matter with a number of shipper-oriented associations representing 
those involved in hazardous materials transportation (most notably the "Hazardous 
Materials Advisory Council (HMAO). 

As I noted in my prepared testimony, today's transportation transactions can be 
auite complex (involving various "third parties" such as brokers, service agents, 
freight consolidators ana third-party logistics specialists). One fundamental purpose 
of olferinff our proposal is to enable the Department of Transportation's Research 
k Special Programs Administration (which writes "hazmat" regulations) and the 



Digitized by 



Google 



74 

DOT'S Federal Highway Administration (which enforces "hazmat" regulations) to 
better target their training and compliance activities. 

Question 3. What, in vour view, is the most important policy action Congress 
should take in the hazardous materials reauthorization legislation? 

Answer. In NTTC's opinion. Congress' top priority in this legislation should be to 
strengthen and amplify its belief (originally stated in the 1990 version of HMTUSA) 
that national uniformity in hazardous materials legislation best serves the interests 
of safety in the highway transportation of hazardous materials. In this context, the 
Congress should: (a) assure that the Secretary of Transportation has fundamental 
and overriding jurisdiction in promulgating "hazmat" regulations (including primacy 
over other Federal agencies); and, (b) reinstitute the full force and authority of the 
"obstacle test" as a tool for DOTs use in considering applications for preemption. 



Response to Written Questions Submitted by Hon. Ernest F. Hollings to 

Clifford J. Harvison 

Question 1. I You are concerned that the D.C. Circuit's decision in Massachusetts 
v. DOT has left RSPA's "undermined". Could you provide some concrete examples 
of the harm this decision could do to RSPA's enforcement efforts? 

Answer. In 1990, the Congress stressed the safety benefits of "national uniform- 
ity" in hazardous materials regulation. In recognition of the fact that many State 
and local "hazmat" laws and regulations would remain "on the books", the Congress 
authorized the Secretary, DOT to preempt such non Federal restrictions utilizing ei- 
ther the "dual compliance test" or Hhe obstacle test". 

While administrative (or judicial) review of a non Federal law or regulation under 
the dual compliance test is relatively straighforward, such is not the case with re- 
spect to the obstacle test. 

At the time of the 1990 codification of HMTUSA, the hearing record demonstrates 
that one of the prime reasons the Congress included "preemption" in the statute was 
concern over (what is often referred to as) the "not in my backyard" syndrome. Spe- 
cifically, the Congress recognized that the transportation of hazardous materials is 
essential to our economy, yet that transportation imposed special burdens ancl risks 
on communities through which hazardous materials are transported. The record had 
already documented the fact that some jurisdictions had attempted to impose (by 
statute or regulation) operational restrictions so onerous as to cause transporters to 
seek alternative routings to avoid such jurisdictions (note: In earlier DOT "Incon- 
sistency Rulings", DOT referred to this issue as ". . . exporting risk."). Since it 
would be impossible to predict the wide range of regulatory and statutory variations 
which might be used by non Federal jurisdictions, the Congress gave the Secretary 
the discretion of the obstacle test as one way to blunt the "exportation of risk". 

Massachusetts v. DOT is a case in point, and I will use the questions raised, 
therein, to demonstrate the requested "concrete example". 

The State of Massachusetts had imposed a $10,000 bonding requirement for all 
motor carriers loading or unloading hazardous wastes within that State. This was 
done despite (and in addition to) the fact that current Federal regulation would re- 
quire a tank truck carrier of hazardous wastes to possess "evidence of financial re- 
sponsibility" in the amount of $5 million (see 49 CFR, Part 387). 

Now, for the sake of a "concrete example" allow one to assume that the neighbor- 
ing State of New Hampshire decides that they want to further protect their citizens 
against the problems of hazardous waste transportation, and that legislature im- 
poses a bonding requirement of $1 million (again, in addition to the current Federal 
requirements) knowing full well that such' action would prompt an extraordinary ex- 
pense for a motor carrier of any size and would probably cause reroutings into adja- 
cent states. Alternatively (or coincide ntally) let us assume that the city of Boston, 
MA decides to play "one upmanship" with the Massachusetts legislature and seta 
a $500,000 bonding requirements for transportation within that City. 

While (herein), we have used "bonding*^ as the example, please be assured that 
the operational restrictions that could be imposed are virtually unlimited in num- 
ber. 

Question 2. How would you define "shipper" in the HMTSRA (sic) and what are 
the advantages of such a definition? 

Answer. Tne definition, proposed by NTTC, is as follows: 

(XXX) "Shipper" (or "offerer") means, for the purposes of this Act, a person who 
owns and/or operates a facility where hazardous materials are loaded into 
packagings authorized by the Secretary and/or transportation equipment for the 
purposes of transportation." 



Digitized by 



Google 



75 

While I have not contacted the National Industrial Transportation League, I have 
discassed this matter with a number of shipper-oriented associations representing 
those involved in hazardous materials transportation (most notably the "Hazardous 
Materials Advisory Council (HMAC)). 

As I noted in my prepared testimony, today's transportation transactions can be 
mrite complex (involving various "third parties" such as brokers, service agents, 
freiniit oonaolidators and third-pertjr logistics specialists). One fundamental purpose 
of offering our proposal is to enable the Department of Transportation's Research 
£ Special Pro gram s Administration (which writes "hazmat" regulations) and the 
DOTS Federal Highway Administration (which enforces "hazmat" regulations) to 
better target their training and compliance activities. 



Response to Written Questions Submitted by Hon. Daniel K. Inouye to 
Clifford J. Harvison 

Do you agree that the elimination of 49 U.S.C. 5106 is harmful to 
i>A's authority? 

Answer. Yes. As presently codified, this provision of the Hazardous Materials 
Transportation Uniform Safety Act (HMTOSA) serves to clarify Congressional in- 
tent tnat the Secretary of Transportation has comprehensive authority to regulate 
those activities of "hazmat employers" and "hazmat employees" which might be con- 
sidered incidental to transportation. 

For instance, there is no doubt that DOTs hazmat rules would apply to a driver 
of a cargo tank laden with hazardous materials — while driving. However, there 
might be some doubt as to the applicability of the Secretary's regulations to that 
individual while he/she is engaged in other related activities (such as loading, un- 
loading, operation of accessory equipment, etc.). Such activities may present unique 
hazards (lor instance, the driver might become exposed to the product in the event 
of a broken hose). Section 5106 serves to specify that the Secretary has primary reg- 
ulatory jurisdiction in such areas. Section 5106 should be strengthened, not elimi- 
nated. 



Prepared Statement of the Association op American Railroads 

The Association of American Railroads (AAR) appreciates this opportunity to sub- 
mit comments for the hearing record in connection with the reauthorization of the 
nation's hazardous materials transportation program. 1 AAR's testimony will address 
three areas: the railroads' excellent safety record; rail industry efforts to make rail 
transportation of hazardous materials even safer in the future; and the Administra- 
tion's proposed revisions to the hazardous materials laws. 

summary 

The railroad industry's safety record in general— and its hazardous materials 
transportation safety record in particular— are excellent. Some 99.997 percent of all 
hazardous materials shipments by rail reach their final destination without a re- 
lease due to an accident. 

AAR supports the hazardous materials reauthorization proposal which the De- 
partment of Transportation (DOT) sent to Congress on April 17. However, AAR has 
concerns about other aspects of the administration's 'Surface Transportation Safety 
Act," including provisions addressing underground damage prevention, railroad acci- 
dent reporting, and sanitary food transportation. AAR plans to address these con- 
cerns in separate comments. 

THE RAILROADS' SAFETY RECORD 

Recent years have shown a significant improvement in virtually every category of 
rail safety statistics. The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) said in a recent 
report to Congress that the rail industry has made great strides in safety over the 
past two decades. FRA noted that deferred maintenance on main lines and equip- 
ment is now rare, that railroad purchases of new locomotives and freight cars incor- 
porate significantly improved materials and technology, and that advances in track 
and other components permit railroads to move people and goods with a high degree 
of safety. 



1 AAR is a trade association whose member s account for 77 percent of total line-haul mileage, 
p ro d q ce OS portent of total freight revenues, and employ 91 percent of the freight railway 
workforce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



76 

While never satisfied, railroads are very pleased by the safety improvements they 
have realized. The train accident rate has fallen by 25 percent since 1990 and by 
69 percent since 1980. Employee lost workday injury ana illness rates are down 54 
percent since 1990. In addition, Federal data show that railroad employees suffer 
fewer workplace injuries and illnesses than employees in other modes of transpor- 
tation and m American industry generally. Further, grade crossing accident, injury, 
and fatality rates have declined by more than 50 percent since 1980. 

The railroads' efforts to improve safety in the handling of hazardous materials 
have also borne fruit, with only three fatalities subsequent to 1980. The volume of 
hazardous materials moving by rail increased more than 22 percent since 1990, with 
more than 1.7 million carloads being moved in 1995. Yet, the number of accidents 
in 1995 resulting in releases of hazardous materials was only 27, dewn 23 percent 
from the 1990 figure. Further, the number of hazardous materials incidents per 
thousand carloads-— unintentional releases of hazardous materials of which the vast 
majority are minor leaks from valves and fittings — has declined more than 25 per- 
cent since 1990. 

Critical to the industry's safety record is the significant private capital investment 
made in the rail network since 1980, when Congress enacted the Staggers Rail Act 
and helped restore the industry's financial viability. In fact, railroads nave invested 
approximately $90 billion to maintain and improve their track and equipment since 
1990. 

EMPHASIS ON SELF-REGULATION 

An additional key factor in safety performance is the industry's emphasis on self- 
regulation. Railroads set standards on an industry-wide basis through AAR commit- 
tees, and routinely identify safety problems and address them without waiting for 
regulatory intervention. 

Standard setting requires research into state-of-the-art technology. For example, 
data in the 1980's made it clear that derailments caused by broken wheels pre- 
sented an industry-wide problem. AAR's members assembled the facts and took ac- 
tion under the industiys Interchange Rules — governing the movement of cars 
among different railroads — to stop the purchase of straight plate wheels and acceler- 
ate the use of heat-treated curve plate wheels. The derailment rate dropped 60 per- 
cent over the next 7 years. 

THE ROLE OF TECHNOLOGY 

The primary method of detecting defective bearings is currently by "hot box" de- 
tectors which use infrared sensing technology. They are strategically located around 
the rail network, often at 10-25 mile intervals. These detectors have been instru- 
mental in reducing derailments due to bearing failures. 

Some bearing detectors now in service use acoustics to detect patterns of sound 
emissions generated by the rolling elements within each bearing. Recent work at 
AAR's Transportation Technology Center suggests that, with new technology involv- 
ing acoustics and advanced pattern recognition techniques, there is potential for 
more advanced systems to produce even more reliable detection performance. 

Continuous improvements have also resulted in more durable and stronger track 
and infrastructure components and systems. Track today is longer lasting due to im- 

£ roved steel rail, and unproved inspection techniques, using various computer-en- 
anced sensor systems, provide for early detection of potential problems. 
Advanced technology Has also played a significant role in improving the perform- 
ance of railroad tank cars in accidents. The Tank Car Safety Research Project, on 
which AAR and the Railway Progress Institute have spent more than $10 million 
to date, was responsible for the development and testing of shelf couplers, head 
shields, and thermal insulation on tank cars. 

NON-ACCIDENT RELEASES AND VENT SURGE SUPPRESSION 

AAR participates in two programs designed to address the problem of "non-acci- 
dent releases 1 * of hazardous materials, which are leaks and splashes from tank cars. 

The leading cause of such releases is leaks from tank car safety vents. Tank car 
safety vents are necessary to release pressures from product expansion. Moreover, 
the movement of tank cars can cause momentary pressure spikes to be exerted on 
the vents that sometimes result in an accidental release even though there is no 
danger of a tank rupture. AAR, the Federal Railroad Administration, the Chlorine 
Institute, and the Railway Progress Institute arei researching the effectiveness of 
surge suppression systems designed to reduce the pressure spikes exerted on the 
vents during normal transportation, and thereby thje occurrence of safety vent leaks. 



Digitized by 



Google 



77 

In 1995, the railroads, chemical shippers, tank car builders, and government 
agencies took a further step by instituting the North American Non-Accident Re- 
lease Program. The program identifies shippers whose releases from tank cars ex- 
ceed an established threshold number over an 18-month period. Shippers so identi- 
fied are asked to implement specific corrective measures. The program is based on 
a similar Canadian program that achieved a 32 percent reduction in releases over 
a 2-year period. 

OPERATION RESPOND 

In November 1992, Houston-area railroads, the Federal Railroad Administration, 
and representatives of most fire and police agencies in Harris County, Texas insti- 
tuted a pilot hazardous materials program known as Operation Respond. Operation 
Respond was intended as a research and demonstration project to improve informa- 
tion available to first responders at the scene of a hazardous materials incident. As 
a result of the program's success, Operation Respond in 1995 became a non-profit 
institute as a means to conduct further research and development. 

A critical feature of Operation Respond is a computer link connecting 911 or fire 
and police dispatch centers to a participating transportation carrier data base con- 
taining information about a rail car's contents and instructions for handling them. 
Other services of the project include development of manuals and related first re- 
sponse protocols for emergency workers. The goal of Operation Respond is to develop 
a software system that is easy to use and inexpensive for police and fire depart- 
ments to maintain for purposes of providing accurate and timely data to first re- 
sponders. A component of its goals is to develop and improve training programs for 
first responders dealing with railroad and motor carrier accidents. 

TRANSCAER 

AAR, the Chemical Manufacturers Association, and other chemical and transpor- 
tation and trade associations are participating in a program called TRANSCAER," 
Transportation and Community Awareness and Emergency Response. TRANSCAER 
is a national community outreach program designed to improve community emer- 
gency planning and emergency response capabilities. TRANSCAER participants 
help local emergency planning committees learn about hazardous materials trans- 
ported through their communities, assist the committees in developing emergency 
response plans, and aid local entities in their preparations for responding to hazard- 
ous materials incidents. The TRANSCAER participants also hope to make commu- 
nities aware of industry safety programs. It is the intention of the TRANSCAER 
participants to focus their efforts on communities located along major routes, al- 
though assistance will be provided to any community that wants to take advantage 
of the program. 

OTHER INDUSTRY INITIATIVES 

The railroad industry has numerous other safety programs addressing the trans- 
portation of hazardous materials by rail. Individual railroads and AAR annually 
conduct free emergency response training sessions for thousands of State and local 
fire fighters, police, and other emergency response personnel. AAR offers hazardous 
materials training classes at its Transportation Technology Center (TTC) in Pueblo, 
Colorado. Classes are offered on tank car safety, emergency responses to highway 
incidents, emergency response for first responders, and emergency response for haz- 
ardous materials teams. Thousands of students from fire departments, State and 
local agencies, railroads, and chemical companies have attended TTC's training pro- 
gram. 

AAR's Bureau of Explosives publishes one of the most widely-used publications on 
hazardous materials emergency response, Emergency Handling of Hazardous Mate- 
rials in Surface Transportation, which contains initial response information for all 
hazardous materials in the Department of Transportation's Hazardous Materials 
Table. Another valuable publication is a set of "Emergency Action Guides," which 
contain specific information on methods of responding to releases. In addition, AAR 
employs a force of 13 professionals whose job it is to inspect railroad and chemical 
shipper facilities to ensure that those facilities are complying with hazardous mate- 
rials requirements. These professionals are on-call 24 hours per day to respond to 
railroad hazardous materials emergencies. 



Digitized by 



Google 



78 

AAR POSITION ON ADMINISTRATION BILL 

AAR supports the hazardous materials reauthorization proposal which the De- 
partment of Transportation sent to Congress on April 17. The legislation would ex- 
tend the authorization for hazardous materials programs through fiscal year 2003. 

The one modification proposed by DOT of importance to the railroads is the dele- 
tion of 49 USC §5106. Generally, section 4(b)(1) of the Occupational Safety and 
Health Act provides that OSHA does not have jurisdiction in an area regulated by 
another Federal agency. However, confusion created by certain hazardous materials 
training requirements contained in the Hazardous Materials Uniform Safety Act of 
1990 permits current law to be read as providing for complete OSHA — as well as 
DOT— jurisdiction over hazardous materials transportation. In DOTs explanation of 
its proposed amendments, the Department states that section 5106 should be de- 
leted because it creates confusion over OSHA's and DOTs hazardous materials 
transportation jurisdiction. DOTs amendment would eliminate this problem by giv- 
ing DOT basic jurisdiction and limiting OSHA jurisdiction, thus avoiding duplicate 
authority. AAR supports DOTs proposed modification. 

AAR appreciates this opportunity to submit testimony for the hearing record in 
connection with the reauthorization of the Nation's hazardous materials transpor- 
tation program. 



Prepared Statement of the Compressed Gas Association, Inc. 

The Compressed Gas Association (CGA) represents companies that produce and 
distribute industrial gases and cryogenic liquids in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. 
Industrial gases are extensively used in all aspects of industry from mining to steel 
and aluminum making, to chemicals, pharmaceuticals, semiconductor, auto manu- 
facture, to food manufacture and distribution, beverage dispensing, and to health 
care, medicine and dentistry. Yet all of our industry's products are considered haz- 
ardous and fall under the jurisdiction of the Office of Hazardous Materials Safety 
(OHMS) of the U.S. Department of Transportation's (DOT) Research and Special 
Programs Administration (RSPA). 

Tne ability to transport hazardous materials is important to our industry and our 
economy. The authority of our government to ensure the safe, secure and efficient 
transportation of hazardous materials is essential to the industrial gases industry 
and tne entire economy. 

The hazardous materials transportation industry in the United States is com- 
prised of producers and distributors of chemical ana petroleum products and waste, 
transporters by rail, highway, air and vessel, and manufacturers of containers. 
There are 500,000 shipments daily— more than 180 million shipments a year. It is 
a trillion dollar industry that employs millions of Americans. Hazardous materials 
include chemicals, petroleum products, explosives, industrial and medical gases, 
hazardous wastes, radioactive wastes and consumer goods such as fingernail polish, 
household cleansers, and swimming pool additives. Hazardous materials are used 
every day by every American. They are on every railroad and highway, and at every 
shipping and airport terminal in the United States and abroad. They are essential 
to our quality of life, provide jobs for millions of Americans and, as a major export, 
enhance our trade balance. 

The commonality of these materials in transportation is that they can be very 
dangerous if not handled, packaged, marked and transported in a safe manner. The 
safety record of this industry is extraordinary considering the potential of these ma- 
terials to cause serious harm. OHMS, to the extent its budget allows, works coopera- 
tively with the State and local governments, many Federal and international agen- 
cies and the many constituencies impacted by the program including the regulated 
industry, the public, and safety and environmental groups. 

The CGA supports the Federal hazardous materials program for safety reasons 
but also because it assures the efficiency of the movement of these materials be- 
tween modes, within and between States and between the United States and points 
abroad. This is important to our Nation's economy and, of course the hazardous ma- 
terials transportation industry itself. The significance of this business, both domesti- 
cally and internationally, to the economy and the potential impact on public safely 
and health, and the environment makes this a necessary and proper Federal pro- 
gram. 

We believe the current program is providing for a safe and efficient national haz- 
ardous transportation program. To ensure that the program will continue to main- 
tain and improve safety, we urge that you reauthorize the Hazardous Materials 
Transportation Act. There are improvements that can be made to this extraordinary 
program and we would be pleased to work with you to assure that the hazardous 



Digitized by 



Google 



79 

materials program remains strong and responsive to the needs of the public and the 
transportation community. 

In addition to the comments of the Interested Parties for HMTA Reauthorization, 
which we endorse, specific areas of concern to the industrial gas industry are: 

• It is proposed that "exemptions" be replaced with "special permits" and that 
they be reviewed every 4 years instead of 2 years. We believe this is a significant 
improvement and we farther encourage the development of a well understood proc- 
ess to incorporate special permits into the code when they have proven to be safe 
and effective. 

• International harmonization is an increasingly important aspect of enhancing 
the safe shipment of hazardous materials, both domestically and globally. Support 
for international harmonization should increase as international business grows. It 
is vitally important that those involved in regulating hazardous materials transpor- 
tation provide leadership in international standard setting. 

• Expertise in hazardous materials transportation is essential in maintaining and 
improving our Nation's hazardous materials transportation system. The OHMS has 
been losing personnel and expertise because of a disparity in pay grades and pro- 
motion opportunities at other agencies with the DOT. This loss of expertise is a seri- 
ous impediment to OHMS's ability to continue the quality of work and service that 
has distinguished OHMS in the past. The lack of promotional opportunities com- 
promises OHMS' ability to recruit and retain good people. 

In conclusion, we support the reauthorization or the Hazardous Materials Trans- 
portation Act and a strong, responsive, efficient and well funded hazardous mate- 
rials safety program. 

o 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



ISBN 0-16-055908-1 



o n ' 



Digitized by 



