area  handbook  series 

Iraq 

a  country  study 


Iraq 

a  country  study 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Helen  Chapin  Metz 
Research  Completed 
May  1988 


*vru*  .V."  ».'•* » 


On  the  cover:  Samarra  Mosque,  built  approximately  A.D.  836 
by  the  Abbasid  caliph  Al  Muhtasim,  who  made  Samarra  his 
capital 


Fourth  Edition,  1990,  First  Printing,  1990. 

Copyright  ®1990  United  States  Government  as  represented  by 
the  Secretary  of  the  Army.  All  rights  reserved. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Area  Handbook  Series,  DA  Pam  550-31 
Research  completed  May  1988. 
Bibliography:  pp.  269-280. 
Includes  index. 

1.  Iraq  I.  Metz,  Helen  Chapin,  1928-      .  II.  Federal  Research 
Division,  Library  of  Congress.  III.  Area  Handbook  for  Iraq. 
IV.  Series:  DA  Pam  550-31. 

DS70. 61734       1990       56.7— dc20  89-13940 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-31 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  now  being 
prepared  by  the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Con- 
gress under  the  Country  Studies — Area  Handbook  Program.  The 
last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other  published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Acting  Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


in 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  of  the  fol- 
lowing individuals  who  wrote  the  1979  edition  of  Iraq:  A  Country 
Study:  Laraine  Newhouse  Carter,  Angus  MacPherson,  Darrel  R. 
Eglin,  Rinn  S.  Shinn,  and  James  D.  Rudolph.  Their  work  provided 
the  organization  of  the  present  volume,  as  well  as  substantial  por- 
tions of  the  text. 

The  authors  are  grateful  to  individuals  in  various  government 
agencies  and  private  institutions  who  gave  their  time,  research 
materials,  and  expertise  to  the  production  of  this  book.  The  authors 
also  wish  to  thank  members  of  the  Federal  Research  Division  who 
contributed  directly  to  the  preparation  of  the  manuscript.  These 
people  include  Thomas  Collelo,  who  reviewed  all  drafts  and  graphic 
material;  Richard  F.  Nyrop,  who  reviewed  all  drafts  and  who  served 
as  liaison  with  the  sponsoring  agency;  and  Martha  E.  Hopkins, 
who  managed  editing  and  production.  Also  involved  in  preparing 
the  text  were  editorial  assistants  Barbara  Edgerton  and  Izella 
Watson. 

Individual  chapters  were  edited  by  Sharon  Costello,  Vincent 
Ercolano,  Ruth  Nieland,  and  Gage  Ricard.  Carolyn  Hinton 
performed  the  final  prepublication  editorial  review,  and  Shirley 
Kessel  compiled  the  index.  Diann  Johnson  of  the  Library  of  Con- 
gress Composing  Unit  prepared  the  camera- ready  copy,  under  the 
supervision  of  Peggy  Pixley. 

Special  thanks  are  owed  to  David  P.  Cabitto,  who  designed  the 
cover  artwork  and  the  illustrations  on  the  title  page  of  each  chap- 
ter. Invaluable  graphics  support  also  was  provided  by  Sandra  K. 
Cotugno  and  Kimberly  A.  Lord.  Harriett  R.  Blood  assisted  in 
preparing  the  final  maps. 

The  authors  would  like  to  thank  several  individuals  who  provided 
research  and  operational  support.  Arvies  J.  Staton  supplied  infor- 
mation on  ranks  and  insignia,  Ly  H.  Burnham  assisted  in  obtain- 
ing demographic  data,  Afaf  S.  McGowan  assisted  in  obtaining 
photographs,  and  Gwendolyn  B.  Batts  assisted  in  word  processing. 

Finally,  the  authors  acknowledge  the  generosity  of  the  many  indi- 
viduals and  public  and  private  agencies  who  allowed  their  photo- 
graphs to  be  used  in  this  study. 


v 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword    in 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface    xi 

Country  Profile   xiii 

Introduction    xxiii 

Chapter  1.   Historical  Setting    1 

Mark  Lewis 

ANCIENT  MESOPOTAMIA   6 

Sumer,  Akkad,  Babylon,  and  Assyria    6 

Iranian  and  Greek  Intrusions    12 

THE  ARAB  CONQUEST  AND  THE  COMING 

OF  ISLAM    15 

The  Sunni-Shia  Controversy    17 

The  Abbasid  Caliphate,  750-1258    20 

The  Mongol  Invasion    24 

THE  OTTOMAN  PERIOD,  1534-1918    25 

WORLD  WAR  I  AND  THE  BRITISH  MANDATE    31 

IRAQ  AS  AN  INDEPENDENT  MONARCHY    40 

REPUBLICAN  IRAQ    49 

COUPS,  COUP  ATTEMPTS,  AND  FOREIGN 

POLICY    53 

THE  EMERGENCE  OF  SADDAM  HUSAYN, 

1968-79    57 

THE  IRAN-IRAQ  CONFLICT    63 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment  ....  67 

Stephen  Pelletiere 

GEOGRAPHY  AND  POPULATION    70 

Boundaries   70 

Major  Geographical  Features    71 

Settlement  Patterns    75 

Climate    77 

Population    78 

People   \   80 

Kurds    82 

Other  Minorities    85 


vii 


RELIGIOUS  LIFE    86 

Islam    86 

Sunni-Shia  Relations  in  Iraq   95 

SOCIAL  SYSTEMS    97 

Rural  Society   99 

Impact  of  Agrarian  Reform   103 

Urban  Society    105 

Stratification  and  Social  Classes    109 

FAMILY  AND  SOCIETY    110 

EDUCATION  AND  WELFARE    114 

Education    114 

Health    117 

Welfare    118 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy   121 

Robert  Scott  Mason 

GROWTH  AND  STRUCTURE  OF  THE  ECONOMY   124 

THE  ROLE  OF  GOVERNMENT   127 

BANKING  AND  FINANCE   130 

THE  OIL  SECTOR    133 

Developments  Through  World  War  II    133 

The  Turkish  Petroleum  Company   133 

Post-World  War  II  Through  the  1970s    136 

OH  in  the  1980s   142 

INDUSTRIALIZATION   145 

AGRICULTURE    153 

Water  Resources    153 

Land  Tenure  and  Agrarian  Reform    156 

Cropping  and  Livestock    159 

TRANSPORTATION    162 

Roads    163 

Railroads    163 

Ports    166 

Airports    166 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS    167 

ELECTRICITY    167 

FOREIGN  TRADE    168 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics    173 

Eric  Hooglund 

CONSTITUTIONAL  FRAMEWORK    177 

GOVERNMENT    179 

The  Revolutionary  Command  Council    179 

The  National  Assembly    181 


viii 


The  President  and  the  Council  of  Ministers    182 

The  Judiciary   184 

Local  Government   185 

Kurdish  Autonomy   186 

POLITICS   187 

The  Baath  Party    187 

The  Politics  of  Alliance:  The  Progressive  National 

Front    194 

Political  Opposition    197 

MASS  MEDIA    199 

FOREIGN  POLICY    200 

The  Soviet  Union    203 

The  West   204 

The  Persian  Gulf  Countries   206 

Iraq  and  Other  Arab  Countries   207 

Relations  with  Other  Countries   209 

Participation  in  International  Organizations    210 

Chapter  5.  National  Security    213 

Joseph  A.  Kechichian 

NATIONAL  SECURITY  CONCERNS   215 

THE  REGULAR  ARMED  FORCES    217 

Size,  Equipment,  and  Organization    217 

Manpower  and  Training    220 

Conditions  of  Service  and  Morale    222 

Military  Justice  System    223 

Uniforms  and  Rank  Insignia   224 

PARAMILITARY  FORCES    224 

FOREIGN  MILITARY  TIES    228 

Military  Ties  Prior  to  the  Iran-Iraq  War    228 

The  Iran-Iraq  War  and  the  Quest  for  New 

Sources  of  Arms   229 

Arms  from  the  Soviet  Union    229 

Arms  from  France    230 

The  Search  for  Nuclear  Technology   231 

THE  IRAN-IRAQ  WAR    232 

Iraqi  Offensives,  1980-82    233 

Iraqi  Retreats,  1982-84    234 

The  War  of  Attrition,  1984-87    235 

The  Tanker  War,  1984-87    240 

ARMED  FORCES  AND  SOCIETY    241 

Status  in  National  Life    241 

The  Sociology  of  the  Military    244 

The  Defense  Burden    244 


ix 


The  Impact  of  Casualties  on  the  Armed  Forces    245 

Treatment  of  Veterans  and  Widows    246 

INTERNAL  SECURITY    247 

Internal  Developments  and  Security    247 

Internal  Security  in  the  1980s    251 

Incidence  of  Crime    253 

Criminal  Justice  System   254 

Appendix.  Tables    257 

Bibliography    269 

Glossary    281 

Index   285 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Iraq,  1988    xx 

2  Ancient  Mesopotamia    8 

3  The  Abbasid  Caliphate,  A.D.  750    22 

4  The  Ottoman  Empire  in  the  Mid- Seventeenth  Century   ....  28 

5  Topography  and  Drainage    72 

6  Estimated  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex,  1987    .  .  80 

7  Ethnic  and  Religious  Distribution,  1988    82 

8  Petroleum  Industry,  1988    138 

9  Economic  Activity,  1988    150 

10  Transportation  System,  1988    164 

11  Government  Organization,  1988    180 

12  Officer  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1987    226 

13  Enlisted  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1987    227 

14  Initial  Iraqi  Attacks  on  Iran,  1980    236 


x 


Preface 


Like  its  predecessor,  this  study  is  an  attempt  to  treat  in  a  con- 
cise and  objective  manner  the  dominant  social,  political,  economic, 
and  military  aspects  of  contemporary  Iraqi  society.  Sources  of  in- 
formation included  scholarly  journals  and  monographs,  official 
reports  of  governments  and  international  organizations,  news- 
papers, and  numerous  periodicals.  Unfortunately  there  was  a  dearth 
of  information  from  official  Iraqi  sources,  as  well  as  a  lack  of  socio- 
logical data  resulting  from  field  work  by  scholars  in  Iraq  in  the 
1980s.  Chapter  bibliographies  appear  at  the  end  of  the  book;  brief 
comments  on  some  of  the  more  valuable  sources  suggested  as  pos- 
sible further  reading  appear  at  the  end  of  each  chapter.  Measure- 
ments are  given  in  the  metric  system;  a  conversion  table  is  provided 
to  assist  those  readers  who  are  unfamiliar  with  metric  measure- 
ments (see  table  1,  Appendix).  A  glossary  is  also  included. 

The  transliteration  of  Arabic  words  and  phrases  follows  a  modi- 
fied version  of  the  system  adopted  by  the  United  States  Board  on 
Geographic  Names  and  the  Permanent  Committee  on  Geographic 
Names  for  British  Official  Use,  known  as  the  BGN/PCGN  sys- 
tem. The  modification  is  a  significant  one,  however,  in  that  dia- 
critical markings  and  hyphens  have  been  omitted.  Moreover,  some 
geographical  locations,  such  as  the  cities  of  Babylon,  Kirkuk,  Mosul, 
and  Nineveh,  are  so  well  known  by  these  conventional  names  that 
their  formal  names — Babil,  Karkuk,  Al  Mawsil,  and  Ninawa, 
respectively,  are  not  used. 


XI 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republic  of  Iraq. 
Short  Form:  Iraq. 
Term  for  Citizens:  Iraqis. 
Capital:  Baghdad. 

Geography 

Size:  Area  of  Iraq  variously  cited  as  between  433,970  (exclud- 
ing Iraqi  half  of  3,520  square-kilometer  Iraq-Saudi  Arabia 


xin 


Neutral  Zone  shared  with  Saudi  Arabia),  and  437,393  square 
kilometers. 

Topography:  Country  divided  into  four  major  regions:  desert  in 
west  and  southwest;  rolling  upland  between  upper  Euphrates  and 
Tigris  rivers;  highlands  in  north  and  northeast;  and  alluvial  plain 
in  central  and  southeast  sections. 

Society 

Population:  Preliminary  1987  census  figures  give  total  of 
16,278,000,  a  35  percent  increase  over  1977.  Annual  rate  of  growth 
3.1  percent;  about  57  percent  of  population  in  1987  under  twenty. 

Religious  and  Ethnic  Divisions:  At  least  95  percent  of  popula- 
tion adheres  to  some  form  of  Islam.  Government  gives  number 
of  Shias  (see  Glossary)  as  55  percent  but  probably  60  to  65  percent 
is  reasonable  figure.  Most  Iraqi  Shias  are  Arabs.  Almost  all  Kurds, 
approximately  19  percent  of  population,  are  Sunnis  (see  Glossary), 
together  with  about  13  percent  Sunni  Arabs.  Total  Arab  popula- 
tion in  1987  given  by  government  as  76  percent.  Remainder  of 
population  small  numbers  of  Turkomans,  mostly  Sunni  Muslims; 
Assyrians  and  Armenians,  predominantly  Christians;  Yazidis,  of 
Kurdish  stock  with  a  syncretistic  faith;  and  a  few  Jews. 

Languages:  Arabic  official  language  and  mother  tongue  of  about 
76  percent  of  population;  understood  by  majority  of  others.  Kur- 
dish official  language  in  As  Sulaymaniyah,  Dahuk,  and  Irbil  gover- 
norates.  Minorities  speaking  Turkic,  Armenian,  and  Persian. 

Education:  Rapidly  growing  enrollment  in  tuition-free  public 
schools.  Six  years  of  primary  (elementary),  three  years  of  inter- 
mediate secondary,  and  three  years  of  intermediate  preparatory 
education.  Six  major  universities,  forty-four  teacher  training  schools 
and  institutes,  and  three  colleges  and  technical  institutes,  all  govern- 
ment owned  and  operated.  Dramatic  increases  since  1977  in  num- 
bers of  students  in  technical  fields  (300  percent  rise)  and  numbers 
of  female  primary  students  (45  percent  rise).  Literacy  variously 
estimated  at  about  40  percent  by  foreign  observers  and  70  percent 
by  government.  Academic  year  1985-86:  number  of  students  in 
primary  schools  2,812,516;  secondary  schools  (general)  1,031,560; 
vocational  schools  120,090;  teacher  training  schools  and  institu- 
tions 34,187;  universities,  colleges,  and  technical  institutes  53,037. 

Health:  High  incidence  of  trachoma,  influenza,  measles,  whoop- 
ing cough,  and  tuberculosis.  Considerable  progress  has  been  made 
in  control  of  malaria.  Continuing  shortage  of  modern  trained 


xiv 


medical  and  paramedical  personnel,  especially  in  rural  areas  and 
probably  in  northern  Kurdish  areas. 

Economy 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  estimated  at  US$35  billion  in 
1986;  in  1987  GDP  estimated  to  have  a  1.7  percent  real  growth 
rate,  after  negative  growth  rates  1981-86.  Following  outbreak  of 
war  with  Iran  in  1980,  oil  production  decreased  sharply. 

Currency:  1,000  fils  =  20  dirhams  =  1  Iraqi  dinar  (ID).  (For 
value  of  Iraqi  dinar — see  Glossary).  Data  on  financial  status  of  Iraq 
are  meager  because  Central  Bank  of  Iraq,  which  is  main  source 
of  official  statistics,  has  not  released  figures  since  1977. 

Oil  Industry:  Contribution  to  GDP  in  1986  variously  estimated, 
but  probably  about  33.5  percent.  Production  of  crude  oil  averaged 
nearly  2.1  million  barrels  per  day  (bpd — see  Glossary)  in  1987; 
estimated  at  nearly  2.5  million  bpd  in  1988;  oil  exports  in  1987 
estimated  at  1.8  million  bpd;  oil  revenues  in  1987  estimated  at 
US$1 1 .3  billion.  Oil  reserves  in  late  1987  calculated  at  100  billion 
barrels  definite  and  40  billion  additional  barrels  probable.  Natural 
gas  production  in  1987  estimated  at  7  million  cubic  meters;  an  esti- 
mated 5  million  cubic  meters  burned  off  and  remainder  marketed. 
Natural  gas  reserves  of  nearly  850  billion  cubic  meters. 

Manufacturing  and  Services:  Contribution  of  services  (includ- 
ing construction,  estimated  at  12  percent;  transportation  and  com- 
munications, estimated  at  4.5  percent;  utilities,  estimated  at  2 
percent)  to  GDP  in  1986  variously  estimated  at  52  percent;  min- 
ing and  manufacturing  contributed  about  7  percent.  Government 
figures  put  value  of  industrial  output  in  1984  at  almost  ID2  bil- 
lion, up  from  about  ID300  million  in  1968.  Principal  industries 
nonmetallic  minerals,  textiles,  food  processing,  light  manufactur- 
ing, with  combination  of  government-owned  and  government-  and 
private-owned  plants.  Construction  is  estimated  to  employ  about 
20  percent  of  civilian  and  military  labor  force  (because  much  con- 
struction is  defense  related,  figures  are  lacking).  Government  figures 
showed  1984  industrial  labor  force  at  170,000,  with  80  percent  of 
workers  in  state  factories,  13  percent  in  private  sector,  and  7  per- 
cent in  mixed  sector. 

Agriculture:  Accounted  for  about  7.5  percent  of  GDP  in  1986; 
employed  about  33  percent  of  the  labor  force  in  1987.  Cereal 
production  increased  almost  80  percent  between  1975  and  1985; 


xv 


wheat  and  barley  main  crops.  Date  production  dropped  sharply 
because  of  war  damage  to  date  palms. 

Exports:  Almost  US$12  billion  (including  crude  oil)  in  1987.  Crude 
oil,  refined  petroleum  products,  natural  gas,  chemical  fertilizers, 
and  dates  were  major  commodities. 

Imports:  About  US$10  billion  in  1987.  Government  import  statis- 
tics in  1984  showed  34.4  percent  capital  goods,  30  percent  raw 
materials,  22.4  percent  foodstuffs,  and  12.5  percent  consumer 
goods. 

Major  Trade  Areas:  Exports  (in  order  of  magnitude)  in  1986 
mainly  to  Brazil,  Spain,  and  Japan.  Imports  (in  order  of  magni- 
tude) in  1986  mainly  from  Japan,  Turkey,  Federal  Republic  of 
Germany  (West  Germany),  Italy,  and  Britain. 

Transportation 

Roads:  Paved  road  network  almost  doubled  between  1979  and 
1985,  to  22,397  kilometers.  Also  7,800  kilometers  of  unpaved  secon- 
dary and  feeder  roads.  In  1987  1,000-kilometer-long  segment  of 
international  express  highway  from  Mediterranean  to  Persian  Gulf 
under  construction. 

Railroads:  By  1985  2,029  kilometers  of  railroads,  of  which  1,496 
were  standard  gauge,  rest  meter  gauge. 

Ports:  Basra  was  main  port,  together  with  newer  port  at  Umm 
Qasr.  Oil  terminals  at  Mina  al  Bakr,  Khawr  al  Amayah,  and  Al 
Faw,  latter  recaptured  from  Iran  in  1988,  and  industrial  port  at 
Khawr  az  Zubayr.  War  with  Iraq  damaged  port  facilities  and 
prevented  use  of  most  ports. 

Pipelines:  Local  lines  to  Persian  Gulf  and  new  spur  line  from  Basra 
area  to  Saudi  Arabia's  Petroline  (running  from  Eastern  Province 
of  Saudi  Arabia  to  Red  Sea  port  of  Yanbu),  with  500,000  bpd 
capacity,  completed  in  1985  because  Syria  cut  off  use  of  pipelines 
through  Syria  following  outbreak  of  Iran-Iraq  War.  Further  parallel 
pipeline  to  Saudi  Arabia  with  400,000  bpd  capacity  under  construc- 
tion in  1988.  Pipeline  from  Baiji  to  Baghdad  and  from  Baghdad 
to  Khanaqin;  pipeline  also  between  Baiji  and  Turkish  Mediter- 
ranean port  of  Dortyol  opened  in  1977  with  800,000  to  900,000 
bpd  capacity,  expanded  by  500,000  bpd  capacity  in  1987.  Small 
pipelines  distributed  refined  products  to  major  consuming 
areas. 


xvi 


Airports:  International  airports  at  Baghdad  and  Basra,  with  new 
airport  under  construction  at  Baghdad.  Also  ninety-five  airfields, 
sixty-one  with  permanent-surface  runways. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  In  accordance  with  Provisional  Constitution  of  July 
16,  1970,  executive  and  legislative  powers  exercised  by  Revolu- 
tionary Command  Council  (RCC),  chairman  of  which  is  also  presi- 
dent of  country.  First  parliamentary  elections  held  in  June  1980, 
resulting  in  First  National  Assembly.  Second  National  Assembly 
elected  in  October  1984;  National  Assembly  has  generally  met  twice 
annually  as  provided  in  Constitution  and  exercises  legislative  func- 
tions together  with  RCC,  which  has  ultimate  decision-making 
authority. 

Politics:  Political  system  was  under  firm  control  of  Baath  (Arab 
Socialist  Resurrection)  Party.  Party's  high  command,  called 
Regional  Command,  was  headed  in  1988  by  President  Saddam 
Husayn,  who  held  title  of  secretary  general  of  the  Regional  Com- 
mand and  was  also  chairman  of  the  RCC;  vice  chairman  of  the 
RCC  and  presumably  successor  to  Husayn  was  Izzat  Ibrahim;  vice 
president  was  Taha  Muhy  ad  Din  Maruf.  Government  and  polit- 
ical leadership  interchangeable  because  members  of  Regional  Com- 
mand also  members  of  RCC.  Political  activities,  where  they  existed, 
carried  out  within  framework  of  Progressive  National  Front  (PNF), 
of  which  Iraqi  Communist  Party  (ICP)  was  a  participant.  Some 
Kurdish  and  independent  progressive  groups  also  included  in  PNF. 
Politics  of  opposition  outside  PNF  banned  for  all  practical  purposes. 

Administrative  Divisions:  In  1988  eighteen  governorates  or 
provinces,  each  divided  into  districts  and  subdistricts.  Limited  self- 
rule  was  granted  to  Kurds  in  three  northern  governorates  officially 
known  as  Autonomous  Region  (see  Glossary)  and  popularly  known 
as  Kurdistan  (land  of  the  Kurds). 

Judicial  System:  Administratively  under  jurisdiction  of  Ministry 
of  Justice  but  theoretically  independent  under  the  Constitution. 
All  judges  appointed  by  president.  Court  of  Cassation,  highest  court 
of  land;  personal  status  disputes  handled  by  religious  community 
courts  (Islamic  law — or  sharia — or  other).  Country  divided  into 
five  appellate  districts. 

International  Affairs:  Major  issue  was  war  with  Iran  since  1980 
and  attempts  at  a  peace  settlement,  which  resulted  in  cease-fire  in 
August  1988.  In  1980s  Iraq  moved  from  close  friendship  with  Soviet 


xvn 


Union  to  rapprochement  with  United  States  (diplomatic  relations 
reestablished  in  1984),  cordial  relations  with  Western  Europe,  es- 
pecially France,  and  good  relations  with  Persian  Gulf  states  and 
Jordan.  Iraqi  relations  with  Syria,  which  supported  Iran  in  the  war, 
were  cool. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces  (1987):  Army — approximately  1  million  (includ- 
ing about  480,000  active  reserves);  navy — about  5,000;  air  force — 
40,000  (including  10,000  in  Air  Defense  Command).  Compulsory 
two-year  conscription  for  males  was  extended  during  war. 

Combat  Units  and  Major  Equipment  (1987)  (Equipment  esti- 
mates tentative  because  of  wartime  losses):  Army — seven  corps 
headquarters,  five  armored  divisions  (each  with  one  armored 
brigade  and  one  mechanized  brigade),  three  mechanized  divisions 
(each  with  one  armored  brigade  and  two  or  more  mechanized 
brigades),  thirty  infantry  divisions  (including  army,  volunteer,  and 
reserve  brigades),  one  Presidential  Guard  Force  (composed  of  three 
armored  brigades,  one  infantry  brigade,  and  one  commando 
brigade),  six  Special  Forces  brigades;  about  4,600  tanks,  includ- 
ing advanced  versions  of  T-72,  about  4,000  armored  vehicles,  more 
than  3,000  towed  and  self-propelled  artillery  pieces;  Air  Defense 
Command — about  4,000  self-propelled  antiaircraft  guns,  more  than 
300  SAMs;  Army  Air  Corps — about  270  armed  helicopters. 
Navy — one  frigate,  eight  OSA-class  patrol  boats  with  Styx  SSMs, 
other  small  patrol,  minesweeping,  and  supply  ships;  (being  held 
in  Italy  under  embargo  in  1988)  four  Lupo-class  frigates,  with 
Otomat-2  SSMs  and  Albatros/Aspide  SAMs,  six  Assad-class  cor- 
vettes with  Otomat-2  SSMs.  Air  Force — about  500  combat  aircraft 
in  2  bomber  squadrons,  11  fighter-ground  attack  squadrons,  5  inter- 
ceptor squadrons,  1  counterinsurgency  squadron,  and  2  transport 
squadrons. 

Military  Budget:  Fiscal  year  (FY)  1986  estimated  at  US$11.58 
billion. 

Police,  Paramilitary,  and  State  Security  Organizations  (1987): 

People's  Army — estimated  650,000  (constituted  majority  of  para- 
military reserves);  Security  Forces — 4,800  estimate;  Frontier 
Guard,  Futuwah  (paramilitary  youth  organization),  Department 
of  General  Intelligence,  regular  civil  police  force — sizes  unknown. 


xvm 


XX 


^  3 


Lak$  Urmia 


IRBIL  C  \ 


y  IfULAYMAN/Wy^ 

'  /''^■v.Suloymaniyo/N. 

TAM/M  /     \  f 


 International  boundary 

 Governorate  boundary 

®      National  capital 
•       Governorate  capital 


O  25  50  100  Kilometers 
I  ■— r 


xxi 


Introduction 


IN  THE  LATE  1980s,  Iraq  became  a  central  actor  in  Middle 
Eastern  affairs  and  a  force  to  reckon  with  in  the  wider  international 
community.  Iraq's  growing  role  resulted  from  the  way  in  which 
it  was  adapting  the  principles  of  Baath  (Arab  Socialist  Resurrec- 
tion) Party  socialism  to  meet  the  country's  needs  and  from  its  some- 
what unexpected  success  in  compelling  Iran  in  August  1988  to 
request  a  cease-fire  in  the  eight-year-old  Iran-Iraq  War. 

Iraq's  reassertion  in  the  1980s  of  its  role  in  the  region  and  in 
the  world  community  evoked  its  ancient  history.  At  one  time 
Mesopotamia  ("the  land  between  the  rivers"),  which  encompassed 
much  of  present-day  Iraq,  formed  the  center  not  only  of  the  Mid- 
dle East  but  also  of  the  civilized  world.  The  people  of  the  Tigris 
and  Euphrates  basin,  the  ancient  Sumerians,  using  the  fertile  land 
and  the  abundant  water  supply  of  the  area,  developed  sophisticated 
irrigation  systems  and  created  what  was  probably  the  first  cereal 
agriculture  as  well  as  the  earliest  writing,  cuneiform.  Their  suc- 
cessors, the  Akkadians,  devised  the  most  complete  legal  system  of 
the  period,  the  Code  of  Hammurabi.  Located  at  a  crossroads  in 
the  heart  of  the  ancient  Middle  East,  Mesopotamia  was  a  plum 
sought  by  numerous  foreign  conquerors.  Among  them  were  the 
warlike  Assyrians,  from  the  tenth  century  through  the  seventh  cen- 
tury B.C.,  and  the  Chaldeans,  who  in  the  sixth  century  B.C.  created 
the  Hanging  Gardens  of  Babylon,  one  of  the  Seven  Wonders  of 
the  Ancient  World. 

In  539  B.C.,  Semitic  rule  of  the  area  ended  with  the  conquest 
of  Babylon  by  Cyrus  the  Great.  The  successors  of  Cyrus  paid  little 
attention  to  Mesopotamia,  with  the  result  that  the  infrastructure 
was  allowed  to  fall  into  disrepair.  Not  until  the  Arab  conquest  and 
the  coming  of  Islam  did  Mesopotamia  begin  to  regain  its  glory, 
particularly  when  Baghdad  was  the  seat  of  the  Abbasid  caliphate 
between  750  and  1258. 

Iraq  experienced  various  other  foreign  rulers,  including  the  Mon- 
gols, the  Ottoman  Turks,  and  the  British  under  a  mandate  estab- 
lished after  World  War  I.  The  British  placed  Faisal,  a  Hashimite 
claiming  descent  from  the  Prophet  Muhammad,  on  the  throne  in 
1921.  Popular  discontent  with  the  monarchy,  which  was  regarded 
as  a  Western  imposition,  led  in  1958  to  a  military  revolution  that 
overthrew  the  king. 

Ultimately,  the  military  regime  installed  a  government  ruled  by 
the  Baath' s  Revolutionary  Command  Council  (RCC)  and  created 


xxiu 


the  Provisional  Constitution  of  July  16,  1970,  that  institutional- 
ized the  RCC's  role.  Within  the  Baath,  power  lay  primarily  in  the 
hands  of  Baathists  from  the  town  of  Tikrit,  the  birthplace  of  Sad- 
dam Husayn,  who  played  an  increasingly  prominent  role  in  the 
government  in  the  1970s.  (Tikrit  was  also  the  hometown  of  his 
predecessor,  Ahmad  Hasan  al  Bakr,  who  formally  resigned  the 
leadership  in  1979). 

The  Baathist  government  in  1970  granted  the  Kurdish  minor- 
ity a  degree  of  autonomy,  but  not  the  complete  self-rule  the  Kurds 
desired,  in  the  predominantly  Kurdish  regions  of  Dahuk,  Irbil,  and 
As  Sulaymaniyah  (see  fig.  1).  In  the  early  1970s,  Iraqi  casualties 
from  the  renewed  warfare  with  the  Kurds  were  such  as  to  induce 
Saddam  Husayn  to  sign  an  agreement  with  the  shah  of  Iran  in 
Algiers  in  March  1975  recognizing  the  thalweg,  or  the  midpoint 
of  the  Shatt  al  Arab,  as  the  boundary  between  the  two  countries. 
The  agreement  ended  the  shah's  aid  to  the  Kurds,  thus  eventually 
quelling  the  rebellion. 

Saddam  Husayn  then  turned  his  attention  to  domestic  matters, 
particularly  to  the  economy  and  to  an  industrial  modernization  pro- 
gram. He  had  notable  success  in  distributing  land,  in  improving 
the  standard  of  living,  and  in  increasing  health  and  educational 
opportunities.  Rural  society  was  transformed  as  a  result  of  large 
rural-to-urban  migration  and  the  decline  of  rural  handicraft  indus- 
tries. Urban  society  witnessed  the  rise,  particularly  in  the  late  1970s 
and  the  1980s,  of  a  class  of  Baathist  technocrats.  In  addition,  the 
Shia  (see  Glossary)  Muslims,  who,  although  they  constituted  a 
majority,  had  been  largely  unrepresented  in  significant  areas  of 
Iraqi  society,  in  which  the  minority  Sunni  (see  Glossary)  Muslims 
were  the  governing  element,  were  integrated  to  a  considerable 
degree  into  the  government,  into  business,  and  into  the  professions. 

Buoyed  by  domestic  success,  Saddam  Husayn  shifted  his  con- 
centration to  foreign  affairs.  Beginning  in  the  late  1970s,  Iraq  sought 
to  assume  a  more  prominent  regional  role  and  to  replace  Egypt, 
which  had  been  discredited  from  its  position  of  Arab  leadership 
because  of  signing  the  Camp  David  Accords  in  1978.  Iraq,  there- 
fore, gradually  modified  its  somewhat  hostile  stance  toward  Saudi 
Arabia  and  the  Persian  Gulf  states,  seeking  to  win  their  support. 
Relations  with  the  Soviet  Union,  Iraq's  major  source  of  weapons, 
cooled,  however,  following  the  Soviet  invasion  and  occupation  of 
Afghanistan  that  began  in  December  1979.  In  contrast,  Iraqi  ties 
with  France  improved  considerably,  and  France  became  Iraq's  sec- 
ond most  important  arms  supplier. 

The  overthrow  of  the  monarchy  in  Iran  and  the  coming  to  power 
in  1979  of  Ayatollah  Sayyid  Ruhollah  Musavi  Khomeini — whom 


xxiv 


Saddam  Husayn  had  expelled  from  Iraq  in  1978,  reportedly  at  the 
shah's  request — revived  the  historic  hostility  between  the  two  coun- 
tries. Saddam  Husayn  feared  the  impact  on  Iraqi  Shias  of  Kho- 
meini's Islamic  fundamentalism  and  resented  Iran's  attempted 
hegemony  in  the  Persian  Gulf  region.  Believing  Iran's  military 
forces  to  be  unprepared  as  a  result  of  the  revolutionary  purges, 
in  September  1980,  following  a  number  of  border  skirmishes,  Iraq 
invaded  Iranian  territory.  Thus  began  a  bitter,  costly,  eight-year- 
long war  in  which  the  strength  and  the  revolutionary  zeal  of  Iran 
were  clearly  demonstrated. 

From  late  1980  to  1988,  the  war  took  precedence  over  other  mat- 
ters. The  Baath  high  command  succeeded  in  controlling  Iraq's  mili- 
tary institution  to  a  degree  that  surprised  foreign  observers.  One 
of  the  major  instruments  for  accomplishing  this  control  was  the 
People's  Army,  which  served  as  the  Baath  Party's  militia. 

The  Baath  could  do  little,  however,  to  counter  Iran's  superiority 
in  manpower  and  materiel.  At  times  when  Iraq  considered  its  sit- 
uation particularly  desperate — for  example,  when  Iranian  forces 
appeared  to  be  gaining  control  of  substantial  areas  of  Iraqi  terri- 
tory, such  as  Al  Faw  Peninsula  in  the  south  and  the  northern  moun- 
tainous Kurdish  area — Iraq  unleashed  a  barrage  of  missiles  against 
Iranian  cities.  Further,  reliable  reports  indicated  that  Iraq  used 
chemical  warfare  against  the  enemy,  possibly  in  the  hope  of  bringing 
Iran  to  the  negotiating  table. 

To  prevent  domestic  unrest  as  a  result  of  the  war,  Saddam 
Husayn  adopted  a  "guns  and  butter"  economic  policy,  bringing 
in  foreign  laborers  to  replace  those  called  to  military  service  and 
striving  to  keep  casualties  low.  After  drawing  down  its  own  reserves, 
Iraq  needed  the  financial  support  of  its  Gulf  neighbors.  Of  the  lat- 
ter, Kuwait,  Qatar,  Saudi  Arabia,  and  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
all  provided  Iraq  with  loans  to  help  it  prosecute  the  war.  Relations 
with  Egypt  also  improved  significantly  after  the  war's  outbreak. 
Meanwhile  Iraqi  hostility  toward  Syria,  its  fellow  Baathist  govern- 
ment but  traditional  rival,  increased  as  a  result  of  Syria's  strong 
support  of  Iran. 

As  part  of  his  wartime  economic  policies,  Saddam  Husayn  in 

1987  returned  agricultural  collectives  to  the  private  sector,  and  in 

1988  he  took  measures  to  privatize  more  than  forty  state-run  fac- 
tories because  of  the  inefficiency  and  unprofitability  of  agriculture 
and  industry  when  under  state  control.  These  privatizing  steps 
reflected  a  desire  for  greater  economic  efficiency  rather  than  a 
change  in  economic  ideology.  Government  controls  on  the  econ- 
omy were  decreased  by  cutting  subsidies,  by  allowing  partial  foreign 


xxv 


ownership,  and  by  reducing  bureaucratic  regulation  of  enterprises, 
thus  reducing  labor  costs. 

Despite  the  introduction  of  more  liberal  economic  policies  in  Iraq 
in  the  late  1980s,  few  indications  suggested  that  the  political  sys- 
tem was  becoming  less  rigid  to  any  significant  degree.  Ultimate 
decisions  in  both  the  economic  and  the  political  realms  apparently 
remained  in  the  hands  of  Saddam  Husayn  rather  than  in  those  of 
the  constitutionally  designated  RCC .  According  to  a  statement  by 
Saddam  Husayn  to  the  Permanent  Bureau  of  the  Arab  Jurists'  Fed- 
eration in  Baghdad  in  November  1988,  the  Baath  two  years  previ- 
ously had  approved  steps  toward  democratization,  but  these  had 
been  delayed  by  the  Iran-Iraq  War.  The  measures  included  hav- 
ing a  minimum  of  two  candidates  for  each  elective  post,  allowing 
non-Baathists  to  run  for  political  office,  and  permitting  the  estab- 
lishment of  other  political  parties.  In  January  1989,  following  an 
RCC  meeting  chaired  by  Saddam  Husayn,  the  formation  of  a  spe- 
cial committee  to  draft  a  new  constitution  was  reported;  accord- 
ing to  unconfirmed  reports  in  November,  the  new  constitution  will 
abolish  the  RCC.  Elections  for  the  National  Assembly  were  also 
announced,  and  this  body  was  authorized  to  investigate  govern- 
ment ministries  and  departments.  The  elections  took  place  in  early 
April  and  featured  almost  1,000  candidates  (among  them  62 
women,  although  none  was  elected)  for  the  250  seats;  only  160  Baath 
Party  members  were  elected.  A  number  of  Baathist  candidates  also 
were  defeated  in  the  September  Kurdish  regional  assembly  elec- 
tions. The  results  of  both  elections  indicated  a  gradual  downgrad- 
ing of  the  prominence  of  the  Baath.  The  RCC,  moreover,  directed 
the  minister  of  information  to  permit  the  public  to  voice  complaints 
about  government  programs  in  the  government-controlled  press; 
and  government  officials  were  ordered  to  reply  to  such  complaints. 
The  role  of  Saddam  Husayn' s  family  in  government  affairs  was 
somewhat  muted  as  well.  Following  the  helicopter  crash  in  a  sand- 
storm on  May  5  that  killed  Saddam  Husayn' s  brother-in-law  and 
cousin,  Minister  of  Defense  Adnan  Khayr  Allah  Talfah,  a  tech- 
nocrat who  did  not  come  from  Tikrit,  replaced  Talfah. 

The  internal  security  apparatus  controlled  by  the  Baath  Party 
continued  to  keep  a  particularly  close  check  on  potential  dissidents: 
these  included  Kurds,  communists,  and  members  of  Shia  revival 
movements.  These  movements,  such  as  Ad  Dawah  al  Islamiyah 
(the  Islamic  Call),  commonly  referred  to  as  Ad  Dawah,  sought  to 
propagate  fundamentalist  Islamic  principles  and  were  out  of  sym- 
pathy with  Baath  socialism.  Furthermore,  in  1988  in  the  final  stages 
of  the  war,  both  before  and  after  the  cease-fire,  Iraq  was  thought 
to  have  engaged  in  chemical  warfare  against  the  Kurds.  Conceivably 


xxvi 


the  regime  saw  an  opportunity  to  instill  such  fear  in  the  Kurds, 
a  significant  percentage  of  whom  had  cooperated  with  Iran  dur- 
ing the  war,  that  their  dissidence  would  be  discouraged.  In  the 
spring  of  1989  the  government  announced  it  would  depopulate  a 
border  strip  thirty  kilometers  wide  along  the  frontier  with  Turkey 
and  Iran  on  the  northeast,  moving  all  inhabitants,  mainly  Kurds, 
from  the  area;  it  began  this  process  in  May. 

In  December  1988,  reports  surfaced  of  dissidence  within  the 
army,  in  which  Saddam  Husayn  lacked  a  power  base.  The  projected 
annual  Army  Day  celebrations  on  January  6,  1989,  were  cancelled 
and  allegedly  a  number  of  senior  army  officers  and  some  civilian 
Baathists  were  executed.  In  February  the  regime  announced  that 
all  units  of  the  People's  Army  would  be  withdrawn  from  the  front 
by  late  March;  in  July  a  further  announcement  disbanded  the  three- 
division  strong  1st  Special  Army  Corps,  formed  in  June  1986,  but 
apparendy  some  time  would  elapse  before  soldiers  actually  returned 
to  civilian  status.  Such  measures  were  probably  occasioned  by  the 
continued  success  of  the  cease-fire,  initiated  in  August  1988.  The 
cease-fire  held,  although  a  number  of  border  incidents  occurred, 
of  which  the  most  serious  was  the  Iranian  flooding  of  a  sixty-four- 
kilometer  frontier  area  northeast  of  Basra.  Informed  observers  con- 
sidered the  flooding  designed  to  put  pressure  on  Iraq  to  return  a 
strip  of  approximately  1,000  square  kilometers  of  Iranian  territory 
on  the  steppe  beyond  Baqubah.  On  October  27,  Iran  stopped  flood- 
ing the  area,  probably  as  a  prelude  to  a  new  United  Nations  (UN) 
and  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  (ICRC)  mediation 
effort. 

The  peace  talks  under  UN  sponsorship,  despite  a  score  of  face- 
to-face  meetings,  had  made  little  progress  as  of  mid-December.  A 
few  exchanges  of  prisoners  of  war  (POWs),  largely  of  those  that 
were  ill  or  wounded,  had  taken  place,  but  both  Iraq  and  Iran  still 
held  large  numbers  of  each  other's  prisoners.  Saddam  Husayn,  who 
had  agreed  on  October  5,  1988,  to  the  ICRC  plan  for  prisoner 
repatriation,  in  March  1989  proposed  in  a  letter  to  UN  Secretary 
General  Javier  Perez  de  Cuellar  that  the  UN  guarantee  the  return 
of  the  freed  POWs  to  civilian  life.  Saddam  Husayn  made  his 
proposal  in  the  hope  that  this  guarantee  would  reassure  Iran,  which 
held  approximately  70,000  Iraqi  POWs — whereas  Iraq  held  about 
half  that  number  of  Iranians — that  the  balance  of  power  would  not 
be  disturbed.  Iran  has  refused  to  exchange  prisoners  or  to  imple- 
ment any  of  the  ten  points  of  UN  Security  Council  Resolution  598 
dealing  with  the  dispute  until  Iraq  returns  all  Iranian  territory. 

A  major  source  of  disagreement  in  the  peace  negotiations  was 
Iraq's  insistence  on  sovereignty  over  the  Shatt  al  Arab,  as  opposed 


xxvn 


to  the  divided  ownership  created  under  the  1975  Algiers  Agree- 
ment. Failing  such  a  settlement,  Iraq  threatened  to  divert  the  waters 
of  the  Shatt  al  Arab  above  Basra  so  that  it  would  rejoin  the  Gulf 
at  Umm  Qasr,  a  port  that  Iraq  had  announced  it  would  deepen 
and  widen.  Iraq  was  eager  to  have  Iran  allow  the  UN  to  begin  clear- 
ing sunken  ships  from  the  Shatt  al  Arab  so  as  to  permit  Iraqi  access 
to  the  sea. 

Iraq,  meanwhile,  had  launched  a  diplomatic  campaign  to  im- 
prove its  relations  with  other  countries  of  the  region,  particularly 
with  Jordan  and  Egypt.  In  the  last  half  of  1988,  beginning  even 
before  he  accepted  the  cease-fire,  Saddam  Husayn  met  five  times 
with  King  Hussein  and  three  times  with  Egyptian  president  Husni 
Mubarak.  These  high-level  meetings  included  symbolic  elements, 
such  as  Saddam  Husayn 's  accompanying  Hussein  on  a  visit  in 
Baghdad  to  the  graves  of  Faisal  and  Ghazi,  the  Hashimite  kings 
of  Iraq,  an  indication  of  a  considerably  more  moderate  Iraqi 
Baathist  attitude  toward  monarchy  than  had  been  evident  in  the 
past.  The  meetings  were  designed  to  bolster  political  and  economic 
support  for  Iraq  (in  December  1988  Iraq  concluded  a  US$800  mil- 
lion trade  agreement  with  Jordan  for  1989),  as  well  as  to  coordinate 
Arab  policy  toward  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization  and 
toward  Israel,  a  revision  of  Iraq's  previous  rejection  of  any  Arab- 
Israeli  settlement.  In  addition,  Saddam  Husayn  sought  to  reassure 
Saudi  Arabia,  from  which  Iraq  had  received  substantial  financial 
support  during  the  Iran-Iraq  War,  that  Iraq  had  no  intention  of 
dominating  or  of  overthrowing  the  Persian  Gulf  monarchies. 

In  its  relations  with  the  Western  world,  Iraq  also  exhibited  greater 
moderation  than  it  had  in  the  1970s  or  early  1980s.  For  example, 
the  United  States  Department  of  State  indicated  in  late  March  1989 
that  Iraq  had  agreed  to  pay  US$27.3  million  compensation  to  rela- 
tives of  the  thirty-seven  American  naval  personnel  killed  in  the  1987 
Iraqi  attack  on  the  USS  Stark.  During  the  war  with  Iran,  Iraq  had 
borrowed  extensively  from  France,  Britain,  Italy,  and  to  a  lesser 
extent  from  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany) 
and  Japan.  These  countries  would  doubtless  play  significant  roles 
in  Iraq's  reconstruction  and  rearmament;  in  view  of  their  com- 
mercial interest,  Iraq  has  succeeded  in  having  its  loan  repayments 
rescheduled.  For  example,  Iraq  signed  an  agreement  with  France 
in  September  1989  allowing  it  to  repay  its  indebtedness,  due  in 
1989,  over  a  six-  to  nine-year  period,  and  completing  arrangements 
for  Iraq's  purchase  of  fifty  Mirage  2000s. 

Since  the  cease-fire  in  August  1988,  Iraq  has  undertaken  an  ex- 
tensive rearmament  program  involving  foreign  arms  purchases  and 
the  intensified  development  of  its  domestic  arms  industry  to  generate 


xxvin 


export  income  as  well  as  to  meet  domestic  needs.  The  First  Bagh- 
dad International  Exhibition  for  Military  Production  took  place 
from  April  28  to  May  2,  1989,  featuring  numerous  types  of  Iraqi 
arms.  Among  weapons  Iraq  produced  in  1989  were  a  T-74  tank, 
called  the  Lion  of  Baghdad,  and  an  Iraqi  version  of  the  airborne 
early  warning  and  control  (AW ACS)  aircraft,  developed  from  the 
Soviet  Ilyushin  11-76.  Iraq  named  the  plane  the  Adnan-1  after  late 
Minister  of  Defense  Adnan  Khayr  Allah  Talfah.  A  military  devel- 
opment that  aroused  considerable  concern  in  Israel  was  Iraq's 
launching  from  its  Al  Anbar  space  research  center  in  early  Decem- 
ber of  a  forty-eight-ton,  three-stage  rocket  capable  of  putting  a  satel- 
lite into  space  orbit.  The  minister  of  industry  and  military 
industrialization  also  announced  that  Iraq  had  developed  two 
2,000-kilometer  range  surface-to-surface  missiles. 

Apart  from  the  need  to  replace  lost  armaments,  the  war  imposed 
a  heavy  reconstruction  burden  on  Iraq.  To  rebuild  the  infrastruc- 
ture and  to  prevent  disaffection  among  the  population  of  the  south 
who  had  suffered  particularly,  the  government  gave  a  high  priority 
to  the  rebuilding  of  Basra.  On  June  25,  Iraq  published  the  com- 
pletion of  the  basic  reconstruction  of  Basra  at  a  cost  of  approxi- 
mately US$6  billion,  stating  that  work  was  then  beginning  on 
rebuilding  Al  Faw,  which  prior  to  wartime  evacuation  had  about 
50,000  inhabitants.  The  government  has  also  announced  programs 
to  create  heavy  industry,  such  as  new  iron  and  steel  and  alumi- 
num works,  to  build  another  petrochemical  complex,  to  upgrade 
fertilizer  plants,  and  to  reconstruct  the  offshore  oil  export  termi- 
nals at  Khawr  al  Amayah  and  Mina  al  Bakr.  In  June  1989  Iraq 
reported  its  readiness  to  accommodate  very  large  crude  oil  carriers 
at  a  new  terminal  at  Mina  al  Bakr. 

Iraq  has  taken  other  economic  measures  to  stimulate  oil  produc- 
tion and  to  control  inflation.  Since  the  cease-fire,  Iraq  has  pumped 
nearly  its  full  OPEC  quota  of  2.8  billion  barrels  of  oil  per  day. 
In  September  1989,  Iraq  completed  its  second  crude  oil  pipeline 
across  Saudi  Arabia,  with  a  capacity  of  1 ,650,000  barrels  per  day, 
terminating  at  the  Red  Sea  just  south  of  the  Saudi  port  of  Yanbu. 
These  major  economic  ventures  have  led  to  inflation.  To  counter 
price  rises,  the  regime  has  set  weekly  prices  on  fruit  and  vegeta- 
bles and  in  late  June  instituted  a  price  freeze  for  one  year  on  state- 
produced  goods  and  services.  Concurrently  it  authorized  an  addi- 
tional monthly  salary  of  25  Iraqi  dinars  (approximately  US$80) 
for  all  civil  servants  and  members  of  the  police  and  military  forces. 

The  negative  economic  consequences  of  the  war  extended  beyond 
the  reconstruction  of  cities  and  war-damaged  infrastructure  to 
include  postponed  development  projects.  For  example,  the  massive 


xxix 


rural-to-urban  migration,  particularly  in  southern  Iraq,  caused  by 
the  war  had  intensified  a  process  begun  before  the  war  and  had 
created  an  urgent  need  for  housing,  educational,  and  health  facili- 
ties in  urban  areas.  The  war  also  had  serious  effects  on  Iraqi  soci- 
ety, exacerbating  the  strained  relations  of  Iraqi  Arabs  with  the 
leading  minority,  the  Kurds.  The  war,  however,  exerted  a  posi- 
tive influence  by  promoting  a  greater  sense  of  national  unity,  by 
diminishing  differences  between  Shias  and  Sunnis,  and  by  improv- 
ing the  role  of  women.  The  aftermath  of  the  war  permitted  modifi- 
cation of  traditional  Baathist  socialist  doctrines  so  as  to  encourage 
greater  privatization  of  the  economy,  although  the  degree  to  which 
the  government  would  maintain  its  reduced  interference  in  the  eco- 
nomic sphere  remained  to  be  seen. 

The  end  of  the  war  left  a  number  of  unknown  factors  facing  the 
Iraqi  economy  and  society.  One  was  the  size  of  the  postwar  world 
petroleum  demand  and  whether  Iraq  could  sell  its  potential  increased 
output  on  the  international  market.  An  important  unanswered  social 
question  was  whether  women  who  had  found  employment  during 
the  war  would  return  to  domestic  pursuits  and  help  increase  the  birth- 
rate as  the  government  hoped.  Although  women  might  remain  in 
the  work  force,  presumably,  work  permits  of  most  foreign  workers 
brought  in  during  the  war  would  be  terminated. 

An  immediate  result  of  the  war  was  an  attempt  by  the  govern- 
ment at  political  liberalization  in  allowing  multiple  candidates  for 
elected  posts  and  by  offering  an  amnesty  for  political,  but  not  for 
military,  offenders.  A  test  of  this  liberalization  will  be  whether  the 
reforms  promised  by  the  end  of  1989 — the  new  constitution,  legali- 
zation of  political  parties  other  than  the  Baath,  and  freedom  of  the 
press — occur.  Measures  taken  as  of  mid-December  reflected  only 
minimal  lessening  of  the  personal  control  of  President  Saddam 
Husayn  over  the  decision-making  process  in  all  spheres  of  the  coun- 
try's  life. 

The  end  of  the  war  left  many  security  issues  unresolved.  Although 
the  regime  had  disbanded  some  armed  forces  units,  would  Iraq 
maintain  a  strong,  well-trained  army,  posing  a  potential  threat  to 
its  neighbors  and  to  Israel?  Also,  what  of  the  Iraqi  POWs  return- 
ing home  after  several  years'  indoctrination  in  POW  camps  in 
Iran — could  the  government  of  Saddam  Husayn  rely  on  their 
loyalty?  Finally,  Iraq  faced  the  problem  of  its  traditional  Sunni- 
Shia  dichotomy.  The  war  had  demonstrated  the  ability  of  Iraqi  Shias 
to  put  nationalist  commitment  above  sectarian  differences,  but  the 
influence  of  fundamentalist  Shia  Islam  in  the  area,  represented  by 
the  Iranian  regime,  would  continue  to  threaten  that  loyalty. 

December  15,  1989  Helen  Chapin  Metz 


XXX 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


Calf's  head  that  appears  as  an  ornament  on  golden  harp  from  Ur,  ca.  2500  B.  C 


IRAQ,  A  REPUBLIC  since  the  1958  coup  d'etat  that  ended  the 
reign  of  King  Faisal  II,  became  a  sovereign,  independent  state  in 
1932.  Although  the  modern  state,  the  Republic  of  Iraq,  is  quite 
young,  the  history  of  the  land  and  its  people  dates  back  more  than 
5,000  years.  Indeed,  Iraq  contains  the  world's  richest  known 
archaeological  sites.  Here,  in  ancient  Mesopotamia  (the  land 
between  the  rivers),  the  first  civilization — that  of  Sumer — appeared 
in  the  Middle  East.  Despite  the  millennium  separating  the  two 
epochs,  Iraqi  history  displays  a  continuity  shaped  by  adaptation 
to  the  ebbings  and  flowings  of  the  Tigris  and  Euphrates  rivers  (in 
Arabic,  the  Dijlis  and  Furat,  respectively).  Allowed  to  flow 
unchecked,  the  rivers  wrought  destruction  in  terrible  floods  that 
inundated  whole  towns.  When  the  rivers  were  controlled  by  irri- 
gation dikes  and  other  waterworks,  the  land  became  extremely 
fertile. 

The  dual  nature  of  the  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates — their  poten- 
tial to  be  destructive  or  productive — has  resulted  in  two  distinct 
legacies  found  throughout  Iraqi  history.  On  the  one  hand, 
Mesopotamia's  plentiful  water  resources  and  lush  river  valleys 
allowed  for  the  production  of  surplus  food  that  served  as  the  basis 
for  the  civilizing  trend  begun  at  Sumer  and  preserved  by  rulers 
such  as  Hammurabi  (1792-1750  B.C.),  Cyrus  (550-530  B.C.), 
Darius  (520-485  B.C.),  Alexander  (336-323  B.C.),  and  the 
Abbasids  (750-1258).  The  ancient  cities  of  Sumer,  Babylon,  and 
Assyria  all  were  located  in  what  is  now  Iraq.  Surplus  food  produc- 
tion and  joint  irrigation  and  flood  control  efforts  facilitated  the 
growth  of  a  powerful  and  expanding  state. 

Mesopotamia  could  also  be  an  extremely  threatening  environ- 
ment, however,  driving  its  peoples  to  seek  security  from  the  vicis- 
situdes of  nature.  Throughout  Iraqi  history,  various  groups  have 
formed  autonomous,  self-contained  social  units.  Allegiance  to 
ancient  religious  deities  at  Ur  and  Eridu,  membership  in  the  Shiat 
Ali  (or  party  of  Ali,  the  small  group  of  followers  that  supported 
Ali  ibn  Abu  Talib  as  rightful  leader  of  the  Islamic  community  in 
the  seventh  century),  residence  in  the  asnaj (guilds)  or  the  mahallat 
(city  quarters)  of  Baghdad  under  the  Ottoman  Turks,  member- 
ship in  one  of  a  multitude  of  tribes — such  efforts  to  build  autono- 
mous security-providing  structures  have  exerted  a  powerful 
centrifugal  force  on  Iraqi  culture. 


3 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Two  other  factors  that  have  inhibited  political  centralization  are 
the  absence  of  stone  and  Iraq's  geographic  location  as  the  eastern 
flank  of  the  Arab  world.  For  much  of  Iraqi  history,  the  lack  of  stone 
has  severely  hindered  the  building  of  roads.  As  a  result,  many  parts 
of  the  country  have  remained  beyond  government  control.  Also, 
because  it  borders  non-Arab  Turkey  and  Iran  and  because  of  the 
great  agricultural  potential  of  its  river  valley,  Iraq  has  attracted 
waves  of  ethnically  diverse  migrations.  Although  this  influx  of  people 
has  enriched  Iraqi  culture,  it  also  has  disrupted  the  country's  inter- 
nal balance  and  has  led  to  deep-seated  schisms. 

Throughout  Iraqi  history,  the  conflict  between  political  fragmen- 
tation and  centralization  has  been  reflected  in  the  struggles  among 
tribes  and  cities  for  the  food-producing  flatlands  of  the  river  valleys. 
When  a  central  power  neglected  to  keep  the  waterworks  in  repair, 
land  fell  into  disuse,  and  tribes  attacked  settled  peoples  for  pre- 
cious and  scarce  agricultural  commodities.  For  nearly  600  years, 
between  the  collapse  of  the  Abbasid  Empire  in  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury and  the  waning  years  of  the  Ottoman  era  in  the  late  nineteenth 
century,  government  authority  was  tenuous  and  tribal  Iraq  was, 
in  effect,  autonomous.  At  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century, 
Iraq's  disconnected,  and  often  antagonistic,  ethnic,  religious,  and 
tribal  social  groups  professed  little  or  no  allegiance  to  the  central 
government.  As  a  result,  the  all-consuming  concern  of  contem- 
porary Iraqi  history  has  been  the  forging  of  a  nation-state  out  of 
this  diverse  and  conflict-ridden  social  structure  and  the  concomi- 
tant transformation  of  parochial  loyalties,  both  tribal  and  ethnic, 
into  a  national  identity. 

Beginning  in  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century,  the  tanzimat 
reforms  (an  administrative  and  legal  reorganization  of  the  Otto- 
man Empire),  the  emergence  of  private  property,  and  the  tying 
of  Iraq  to  the  world  capitalist  market  severely  altered  Iraq's  social 
structure.  Tribal  shaykhs  (see  Glossary)  traditionally  had  provided 
both  spiritual  leadership  and  tribal  security.  Land  reform  and 
increasing  links  with  the  West  transformed  many  shaykhs  into 
profit-seeking  landlords,  whose  tribesmen  became  impoverished 
sharecroppers.  Moreover,  as  Western  economic  penetration 
increased,  the  products  of  Iraq's  once-prosperous  craftsmen  were 
displaced  by  machine-made  British  textiles. 

During  the  twentieth  century,  as  the  power  of  tribal  Iraq  waned, 
Baghdad  benefited  from  the  rise  of  a  centralized  governmental 
apparatus,  a  burgeoning  bureaucracy,  increased  educational  oppor- 
tunities, and  the  growth  of  the  oil  industry.  The  transformation 
of  the  urban-tribal  balance  resulted  in  a  massive  rural-to-urban 
migration.  The  disruption  of  existing  parochial  loyalties  and  the 


4 


Historical  Setting 


rise  of  new  class  relations  based  on  economics  fueled  frequent  tribal 
rebellions  and  urban  uprisings  during  much  of  the  twentieth 
century. 

Iraq's  social  fabric  was  in  the  throes  of  a  destabilizing  transition 
in  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century.  At  the  same  time,  because 
of  its  foreign  roots,  the  Iraqi  political  system  suffered  from  a  severe 
legitimacy  crisis.  Beginning  with  its  League  of  Nations  mandate 
in  1920,  the  British  government  had  laid  out  the  institutional  frame- 
work for  Iraqi  government  and  politics.  Britain  imposed  a  Hashi- 
mite  (also  seen  as  Hashemite)  monarchy,  defined  the  territorial 
limits  of  Iraq  with  little  correspondence  to  natural  frontiers  or  tradi- 
tional tribal  and  ethnic  settlements,  and  influenced  the  writing  of 
a  constitution  and  the  structure  of  parliament.  The  British  also  sup- 
ported narrowly  based  groups — such  as  the  tribal  shaykhs — over 
the  growing,  urban-based  nationalist  movement,  and  resorted  to 
military  force  when  British  interests  were  threatened,  as  in  the  1941 
Rashid  Ali  coup. 

Between  1918  and  1958,  British  policy  in  Iraq  had  far-reaching 
effects.  The  majority  of  Iraqis  were  divorced  from  the  political 
process,  and  the  process  itself  failed  to  develop  procedures  for  resolv- 
ing internal  conflicts  other  than  rule  by  decree  and  the  frequent 
use  of  repressive  measures.  Also,  because  the  formative  experiences 
of  Iraq's  post- 1958  political  leadership  centered  around  clandes- 
tine opposition  activity,  decision  making  and  government  activity 
in  general  have  been  veiled  in  secrecy.  Furthermore,  because  the 
country  lacks  deeply  rooted  national  political  institutions,  politi- 
cal power  frequently  has  been  monopolized  by  a  small  elite,  the 
members  of  which  are  often  bound  by  close  family  or  tribal  ties. 

Between  the  overthrow  of  the  monarchy  in  1958  and  the  emer- 
gence of  Saddam  Husayn  in  the  mid-1970s,  Iraqi  history  was  a 
chronicle  of  conspiracies,  coups,  countercoups,  and  fierce  Kurdish 
uprisings.  Beginning  in  1975,  however,  with  the  signing  of  the 
Algiers  Agreement — an  agreement  between  Saddam  Husayn  and 
the  shah  of  Iran  that  effectively  ended  Iranian  military  support  for 
the  Kurds  in  Iraq — Saddam  Husayn  was  able  to  bring  Iraq  an 
unprecedented  period  of  stability.  He  effectively  used  rising  oil 
revenues  to  fund  large-scale  development  projects,  to  increase  public 
sector  employment,  and  significantly  to  improve  education  and 
health  care.  This  tied  increasing  numbers  of  Iraqis  to  the  ruling 
Baath  (Arab  Socialist  Resurrection)  Party.  As  a  result,  for  the  first 
time  in  contemporary  Iraqi  history,  an  Iraqi  leader  successfully 
forged  a  national  identity  out  of  Iraq's  diverse  social  structure.  Sad- 
dam Husayn' s  achievements  and  Iraq's  general  prosperity, 
however,  did  not  survive  long.  In  September  1980,  Iraqi  troops 


5 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


crossed  the  border  into  Iran,  embroiling  the  country  in  a  costly 
war  (see  fig.  1). 

Ancient  Mesopotamia 

Sumer,  Akkad,  Babylon,  and  Assyria 

Contemporary  Iraq  occupies  the  territory  that  historians  tradi- 
tionally have  considered  the  site  of  the  earliest  civilizations  of  the 
ancient  Middle  East.  Geographically,  modern  Iraq  corresponds  to 
the  Mesopotamia  of  the  Old  Testament  and  of  other,  older,  Mid- 
dle Eastern  texts.  In  Western  mythology  and  religious  tradition, 
the  land  of  Mesopotamia  in  the  ancient  period  was  a  land  of  lush 
vegetation,  abundant  wildlife,  and  copious  if  unpredictable  water 
resources.  As  such,  at  a  very  early  date  it  attracted  people  from 
neighboring,  but  less  hospitable  areas.  By  6000  B.C.,  Mesopota- 
mia had  been  settled,  chiefly  by  migrants  from  the  Turkish  and 
Iranian  highlands  (see  fig.  2). 

The  civilized  life  that  emerged  at  Sumer  was  shaped  by  two  con- 
flicting factors:  the  unpredictability  of  the  Tigris  and  Euphrates 
rivers,  which  at  any  time  could  unleash  devastating  floods  that  wiped 
out  entire  peoples,  and  the  extreme  fecundity  of  the  river  valleys, 
caused  by  centuries-old  deposits  of  soil.  Thus,  while  the  river  val- 
leys of  southern  Mesopotamia  attracted  migrations  of  neighbor- 
ing peoples  and  made  possible,  for  the  first  time  in  history,  the 
growing  of  surplus  food,  the  volatility  of  the  rivers  necessitated  a 
form  of  collective  management  to  protect  the  marshy,  low-lying 
land  from  flooding.  As  surplus  production  increased  and  as  col- 
lective management  became  more  advanced,  a  process  of  urbani- 
zation evolved  and  Sumerian  civilization  took  root. 

Sumer  is  the  ancient  name  for  southern  Mesopotamia.  Histori- 
ans are  divided  on  when  the  Sumerians  arrived  in  the  area,  but 
they  agree  that  the  population  of  Sumer  was  a  mixture  of  linguis- 
tic and  ethnic  groups  that  included  the  earlier  inhabitants  of  the 
region.  Sumerian  culture  mixed  foreign  and  local  elements.  The 
Sumerians  were  highly  innovative  people  who  responded  creatively 
to  the  challenges  of  the  changeable  Tigris  and  Euphrates  rivers. 
Many  of  the  great  Sumerian  legacies,  such  as  writing,  irrigation, 
the  wheel,  astronomy,  and  literature,  can  be  seen  as  adaptive 
responses  to  the  great  rivers. 

The  Sumerians  were  the  first  people  known  to  have  devised  a 
scheme  of  written  representation  as  a  means  of  communication. 
From  the  earliest  writings,  which  were  pictograms  (simplified  pic- 
tures on  clay  tablets),  the  Sumerians  gradually  created  cuneiform — a 
way  of  arranging  impressions  stamped  on  clay  by  the  wedge-like 


6 


Historical  Setting 


section  of  a  chopped-off  reed.  The  use  of  combinations  of  the  same 
basic  wedge  shape  to  stand  for  phonetic,  and  possibly  for  syllabic, 
elements  provided  more  flexible  communication  than  the  pictogram. 
Through  writing,  the  Sumerians  were  able  to  pass  on  complex 
agricultural  techniques  to  successive  generations;  this  led  to  marked 
improvements  in  agricultural  production. 

Another  important  Sumerian  legacy  was  the  recording  of  litera- 
ture. The  most  famous  Sumerian  epic  and  the  one  that  has  sur- 
vived in  the  most  nearly  complete  form  is  the  epic  of  Gilgamesh. 
The  story  of  Gilgamesh,  who  actually  was  king  of  the  city-state 
of  Uruk  in  approximately  2700  B.C.,  is  a  moving  story  of  the  ruler's 
deep  sorrow  at  the  death  of  his  friend  and  of  his  consequent  search 
for  immortality.  Other  central  themes  of  the  story  are  a  devastat- 
ing flood  and  the  tenuous  nature  of  man's  existence.  Laden  with 
complex  abstractions  and  emotional  expressions,  the  epic  of  Gil- 
gamesh reflects  the  intellectual  sophistication  of  the  Sumerians,  and 
it  has  served  as  the  prototype  for  all  Middle  Eastern  inundation 
stories.  The  precariousness  of  existence  in  southern  Mesopotamia 
also  led  to  a  highly  developed  sense  of  religion.  Cult  centers  such 
as  Eridu,  dating  back  to  5000  B.C.,  served  as  important  centers 
of  pilgrimage  and  devotion  even  before  the  rise  of  Sumer.  Many 
of  the  most  important  Mesopotamian  cities  emerged  in  areas  sur- 
rounding the  pre-Sumerian  cult  centers,  thus  reinforcing  the  close 
relationship  between  religion  and  government. 

The  Sumerians  were  pantheistic;  their  gods  more  or  less  per- 
sonified local  elements  and  natural  forces.  In  exchange  for  sacrifice 
and  adherence  to  an  elaborate  ritual,  the  gods  of  ancient  Sumer 
were  to  provide  the  individual  with  security  and  prosperity.  A 
powerful  priesthood  emerged  to  oversee  ritual  practices  and  to  inter- 
vene with  the  gods.  Sumerian  religious  beliefs  also  had  important 
political  aspects.  Decisions  relating  to  land  rentals,  agricultural  ques- 
tions, trade,  commercial  relations,  and  war  were  determined  by 
the  priesthood,  because  all  property  belonged  to  the  gods.  The 
priests  ruled  from  their  temples,  called  ziggurats,  which  were 
essentially  artificial  mountains  of  sunbaked  brick,  built  with  out- 
side staircases  that  tapered  toward  a  shrine  at  the  top. 

Because  the  well-being  of  the  community  depended  upon  close 
observation  of  natural  phenomena,  scientific  or  protoscientific 
activities  occupied  much  of  the  priests'  time.  For  example,  the 
Sumerians  believed  that  each  of  the  gods  was  represented  by  a  num- 
ber. The  number  sixty,  sacred  to  the  god  An,  was  their  basic  unit 
of  calculation.  The  minutes  of  an  hour  and  the  notational  degrees 
of  a  circle  were  Sumerian  concepts.  The  highly  developed  agricul- 
tural system  and  the  refined  irrigation  and  water-control  systems 


7 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Historical  Setting 


that  enabled  Sumer  to  achieve  surplus  production  also  led  to  the 
growth  of  large  cities.  The  most  important  city-states  were  Uruk, 
Eridu,  Kish,  Lagash,  Agade,  Akshak,  Larsa,  and  Ur  (birthplace 
of  the  prophet  Abraham).  The  emergence  of  urban  life  led  to  fur- 
ther technological  advances.  Lacking  stone,  the  Sumerians  made 
marked  improvements  in  brick  technology,  making  possible  the 
construction  of  very  large  buildings  such  as  the  famous  ziggurat 
of  Ur.  Sumer  also  pioneered  advances  in  warfare  technology.  By 
the  middle  of  the  third  millennium  B.C.,  the  Sumerians  had  devel- 
oped the  wheeled  chariot.  At  approximately  the  same  time,  the 
Sumerians  discovered  that  tin  and  copper  when  smelted  together 
produced  bronze — a  new,  more  durable,  and  much  harder  metal. 
The  wheeled  chariot  and  bronze  weapons  became  increasingly 
important  as  the  Sumerians  developed  the  institution  of  kingship 
and  as  individual  city-states  began  to  vie  for  supremacy. 

Historians  generally  divide  Sumerian  history  into  three  stages. 
In  the  first  stage,  which  extended  roughly  from  3360  B.C.  to 
2400  B.C.,  the  most  important  political  development  was  the  emer- 
gence of  kings  who,  unlike  the  first  priestly  rulers,  exercised  dis- 
tinct political  rather  than  religious  authority.  Another  important 
feature  of  this  period  was  the  emergence  of  warring  Sumerian  city- 
states,  which  fought  for  control  of  the  river  valleys  in  lower 
Mesopotamia.  During  the  second  phase,  which  lasted  from 
2400  B.C.  to  2200  B.C.,  Sumer  was  conquered  in  approximately 
2334  B.C.  by  Sargon  I,  king  of  the  Semitic  city  of  Akkad.  Sargon 
was  the  world's  first  empire-builder,  sending  his  troops  as  far  as 
Egypt  and  Ethiopia.  He  attempted  to  establish  a  unified  empire 
and  to  end  the  hostilities  among  the  city-states.  Sargon' s  rule  intro- 
duced a  new  level  of  political  organization  that  was  characterized 
by  an  even  more  clear-cut  separation  between  religious  authority 
and  secular  authority.  To  ensure  his  supremacy,  Sargon  created 
the  first  conscripted  army,  a  development  related  to  the  need  to 
mobilize  large  numbers  of  laborers  for  irrigation  and  flood-control 
works.  Akkadian  strength  was  boosted  by  the  invention  of  the  com- 
posite bow,  a  new  weapon  made  of  strips  of  wood  and  horn. 

Despite  their  military  prowess,  Akkadian  hegemony  over 
southern  Mesopotamia  lasted  only  200  years.  Sargon 's  great- 
grandson  was  then  overthrown  by  the  Guti,  a  mountain  people 
from  the  east.  The  fall  of  the  Akkadians  and  the  subsequent  reemer- 
gence  of  Sumer  under  the  king  of  Ur,  who  defeated  the  Guti, 
ushered  in  the  third  phase  of  Sumerian  history.  In  this  final  phase, 
which  was  characterized  by  a  synthesis  of  Sumerian  and  Akkadian 
cultures,  the  king  of  Ur  established  hegemony  over  much  of 
Mesopotamia.  Sumerian  supremacy,  however,  was  on  the  wane. 


9 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


By  2000  B.C.  the  combined  attacks  of  the  Amorites,  a  Semitic  peo- 
ple from  the  west,  and  the  Elamites,  a  Caucasian  people  from  the 
east,  had  destroyed  the  Third  Dynasty  of  Ur.  The  invaders 
nevertheless  carried  on  the  Sumero- Akkadian  cultural  legacy. 

The  Amorites  established  cities  on  the  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates 
rivers  and  made  Babylon,  a  town  to  the  north,  their  capital.  Dur- 
ing the  time  of  their  sixth  ruler,  King  Hammurabi  (1792- 
1750  B.C.),  Babylonian  rule  encompassed  a  huge  area  covering 
most  of  the  Tigris-Euphrates  river  valley  from  Sumer  and  the  Per- 
sian Gulf  in  the  south  to  Assyria  in  the  north.  To  rule  over  such 
a  large  area,  Hammurabi  devised  an  elaborate  administrative  struc- 
ture. His  greatest  achievement,  however,  was  the  issuance  of  a  law 
code  designed  "to  cause  justice  to  prevail  in  the  country,  to  destroy 
the  wicked  and  the  evil,  that  the  strong  may  not  oppress  the  weak. ' ' 
The  Code  of  Hammurabi,  not  the  earliest  to  appear  in  the  Middle 
East  but  certainly  the  most  complete,  dealt  with  land  tenure,  rent, 
the  position  of  women,  marriage,  divorce,  inheritance,  contracts, 
control  of  public  order,  administration  of  justice,  wages,  and  labor 
conditions. 

In  Hammurabi's  legal  code,  the  civilizing  trend  begun  at  Sumer 
had  evolved  to  a  new  level  of  complexity.  The  sophisticated  legal 
principles  contained  in  the  code  reflect  a  highly  advanced  civiliza- 
tion in  which  social  interaction  extended  far  beyond  the  confines 
of  kinship.  The  large  number  of  laws  pertaining  to  commerce  reflect 
a  diversified  economic  base  and  an  extensive  trading  network.  In 
politics,  Hammurabi's  code  is  evidence  of  a  more  pronounced  sepa- 
ration between  religious  and  secular  authority  than  had  existed  in 
ancient  Sumer.  In  addition  to  Hammurabi's  legal  code,  the  Babylo- 
nians made  other  important  contributions,  notably  to  the  science 
of  astronomy,  and  they  increased  the  flexibility  of  cuneiform  by 
developing  the  pictogram  script  so  that  it  stood  for  a  syllable  rather 
than  an  individual  word. 

Beginning  in  approximately  1600  B.C.,  Indo-European- speaking 
tribes  invaded  India;  other  tribes  settled  in  Iran  and  in  Europe. 
One  of  these  groups,  the  Hittites,  allied  itself  with  the  Kassites, 
a  people  of  unknown  origins.  Together,  they  conquered  and 
destroyed  Babylon.  Hittite  power  subsequently  waned,  but,  in  the 
first  half  of  the  fourteenth  century  B.C.,  the  Hittites  reemerged, 
controlling  an  area  that  stretched  from  the  Mediterranean  Sea  to 
the  Persian  Gulf.  The  military  success  of  the  Hittites  has  been 
attributed  to  their  monopoly  in  iron  production  and  to  their  use 
of  the  chariot.  Nevertheless,  in  the  twelfth  century  B.C.,  the  Hit- 
tites were  destroyed,  and  no  great  military  power  occupied 
Mesopotamia  until  the  ninth  century  B.C. 


10 


Historical  Setting 


One  of  the  cities  that  flourished  in  the  middle  of  the  Tigris  Val- 
ley during  this  period  was  that  of  Ashur,  named  after  the  sun-god 
of  the  Assyrians.  The  Assyrians  were  Semitic  speakers  who  occupied 
Babylon  for  a  brief  period  in  the  thirteenth  century  B.C.  Invasions 
of  iron-producing  peoples  into  the  Middle  East  and  into  the  Aegean 
region  in  approximately  1200  B.C.  disrupted  the  indigenous 
empires  of  Mesopotamia,  but  eventually  the  Assyrians  were  able 
to  capitalize  on  the  new  alignments  of  power  in  the  region.  Because 
of  what  has  been  called  "the  barbarous  and  unspeakable  cruelty 
of  the  Assyrians,"  the  names  of  such  Assyrian  kings  as  Ashurnasir- 
pal  (883-859  B.C.),  Tiglath-Pileser  III  (745-727  B.C.),  Sen- 
nacherib (704-681  B.C.),  and  Ashurbanipal  (669-626  B.C.) 
continue  to  evoke  images  of  powerful,  militarily  brilliant,  but  bru- 
tally savage  conquerors. 

The  Assyrians  began  to  expand  to  the  west  in  the  early  part  of 
the  ninth  century  B.C.;  by  859  they  had  reached  the  Mediterra- 
nean Sea,  where  they  occupied  Phoenician  cities.  Damascus  and 
Babylon  fell  to  the  next  generations  of  Assyrian  rulers.  During  the 
eighth  century  B.C.,  the  Assyrians'  control  over  their  empire 
appeared  tenuous,  but  Tiglath-Pileser  III  seized  the  throne  and 
rapidly  subdued  Assyria's  neighbors,  captured  Syria,  and  crowned 
himself  king  of  Babylon.  He  developed  a  highly  proficient  war 
machine  by  creating  a  permanent  standing  army  under  the  adminis- 
tration of  a  well-organized  bureaucracy.  Sennacherib  built  a  new 
capital,  Nineveh,  on  the  Tigris  River,  destroyed  Babylon  (where 
citizens  had  risen  in  revolt),  and  made  Judah  a  vassal  state. 

In  612  B.C.,  revolts  of  subject  peoples  combined  with  the  allied 
forces  of  two  new  kingdoms,  those  of  the  Medes  and  the  Chalde- 
ans (Neo-Babylonians),  effectively  to  extinguish  Assyrian  power. 
Nineveh  was  razed.  The  hatred  that  the  Assyrians  inspired,  par- 
ticularly for  their  policy  of  wholesale  resettlement  of  subject  peo- 
ples, was  sufficiently  great  to  ensure  that  few  traces  of  Assyrian 
rule  remained  two  years  later.  The  Assyrians  had  used  the  visual 
arts  to  depict  their  many  conquests,  and  Assyrian  friezes,  executed 
in  minute  detail,  continue  to  be  the  best  artifacts  of  Assyrian 
civilization. 

The  Chaldeans  became  heir  to  Assyrian  power  in  612  B.C.,  and 
they  conquered  formerly  Assyrian-held  lands  in  Syria  and  Pales- 
tine. King  Nebuchadnezzar  (605-562  B.C.)  conquered  the  king- 
dom of  Judah,  and  he  destroyed  Jerusalem  in  586  B.C.  Conscious 
of  their  ancient  past,  the  Chaldeans  sought  to  reestablish  Babylon 
as  the  most  magnificent  city  of  the  Middle  East.  It  was  during  the 
Chaldean  period  that  the  Hanging  Gardens  of  Babylon,  famed  as 
one  of  the  Seven  Wonders  of  the  Ancient  World,  were  created. 


11 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Because  of  an  estrangement  of  the  priesthood  from  the  king, 
however,  the  monarchy  was  severely  weakened,  and  it  was  unable 
to  withstand  the  rising  power  of  Achaemenid  Iran.  In  539  B.C., 
Babylon  fell  to  Cyrus  the  Great  (550-530  B.C.).  In  addition  to 
incorporating  Babylon  into  the  Iranian  empire,  Cyrus  the  Great 
released  the  Jews  who  had  been  held  in  captivity  there. 

Iranian  and  Greek  Intrusions 

Mesopotamia,  for  2,000  years  a  stronghold  of  Semitic-speaking 
peoples,  now  fell  to  Indo-European  rule  that  persisted  for  1,176 
years.  Cyrus,  one  of  history's  truly  great  leaders,  ruled  with  a  firm 
hand,  but  he  was  also  well  attuned  to  the  needs  of  his  subjects. 
Upon  assuming  power,  he  immediately  replaced  the  savagery  of 
the  Assyrians  with  a  respect  for  the  customs  and  the  institutions 
of  his  new  subjects.  He  appointed  competent  provincial  governors 
(the  predecessors  of  the  Persian  satraps),  and  he  required  from  his 
subjects  only  tribute  and  obedience.  Following  Cyrus's  death,  a 
brief  period  of  Babylonian  unrest  ensued  that  climaxed  in  522  B.C. 
with  a  general  rebellion  of  Iranian  colonies. 

Between  520  and  485  B.C.,  the  efficient  and  innovative  Iranian 
leader,  Darius  the  Great,  reimposed  political  stability  in  Babylon 
and  ushered  in  a  period  of  great  economic  prosperity.  His  greatest 
achievements  were  in  road  building — which  significantly  improved 
communication  among  the  provinces — and  in  organizing  an  effi- 
cient bureaucracy.  Darius 's  death  in  485  B.C.  was  followed  by  a 
period  of  decay  that  led  to  a  major  Babylonian  rebellion  in  482  B.C. 
The  Iranians  violently  quelled  the  uprising,  and  the  repression  that 
followed  severely  damaged  Babylon's  economic  infrastructure. 

The  first  Iranian  kings  to  rule  Iraq  followed  Mesopotamian  land- 
management  practices  conscientiously.  Between  485  B.C.  and  the 
conquest  by  Alexander  the  Great  in  331  B.C.,  however,  very  little 
in  Babylon  was  repaired  and  few  of  its  once-great  cities  remained 
intact.  Trade  also  was  greatly  reduced  during  this  period.  The 
established  trade  route  from  Sardis  to  Susa  did  not  traverse  Babylo- 
nia, and  the  Iranian  rulers,  themselves  much  closer  to  the  Orient, 
were  able  to  monopolize  trade  from  India  and  other  eastern  points. 
As  a  result,  Babylonia  and  Assyria,  which  together  formed  the  ninth 
satrapy  of  the  Persian  Empire,  became  economically  isolated  and 
impoverished.  Their  poverty  was  exacerbated  by  the  extremely  high 
taxes  levied  on  them:  they  owed  the  Iranian  crown  1,000  talents 
of  silver  a  year,  in  addition  to  having  to  meet  the  extortionate 
demands  of  the  local  administrators,  and  they  were  responsible  for 
feeding  the  Iranian  court  for  four  months  every  year. 


12 


Ruins  of  a  tower  at  Nimrud,  near  Kirkuk, 
referred  to  as  Tower  of  Babel 
Courtesy  Matson  Collection 

Iranian  rule  lasted  for  more  than  200  years,  from  551  B.C.  to 
331  B.C.  During  this  time,  large  numbers  of  Iranians  were  added 
to  Mesopotamia's  ethnically  diverse  population.  The  flow  of  Ira- 
nians into  Iraq,  which  began  during  the  rein  of  the  Achaemenids, 
initiated  an  important  demographic  trend  that  would  continue 
intermittently  throughout  much  of  Iraqi  history.  Another  impor- 
tant effect  of  Iranian  rule  was  the  disappearance  of  the  Mesopota- 
mian  languages  and  the  widespread  use  of  Aramaic,  the  official 
language  of  the  empire. 

By  the  fourth  century  B.C.,  nearly  all  of  Babylon  opposed  the 
Achaemenids.  Thus,  when  the  Iranian  forces  stationed  in  Baby- 
lon surrendered  to  Alexander  the  Great  of  Macedon  in  331  B.C. 
all  of  Babylonia  hailed  him  as  a  liberator.  Alexander  quickly  won 
Babylonian  favor  when,  unlike  the  Achaemenids,  he  displayed 
respect  for  such  Babylonian  traditions  as  the  worship  of  their  chief 
god,  Marduk.  Alexander  also  proposed  ambitious  schemes  for 
Babylon.  He  planned  to  establish  one  of  the  two  seats  of  his  empire 
there  and  to  make  the  Euphrates  navigable  all  the  way  to  the  Per- 
sian Gulf,  where  he  planned  to  build  a  great  port.  Alexander's 
grandiose  plans,  however,  never  came  to  fruition.  Returning  from 
an  expedition  to  the  Indus  River,  he  died  in  Babylon — most  prob- 
ably from  malaria  contracted  there  in  323  B.C.  at  the  age  of 


13 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

thirty-two.  In  the  politically  chaotic  period  after  Alexander's  death, 
his  generals  fought  for  and  divided  up  his  empire.  Many  of  the 
battles  among  the  Greek  generals  were  fought  on  Babylonian  soil. 
In  the  latter  half  of  the  Greek  period,  Greek  military  campaigns 
were  focused  on  conquering  Phoenician  ports  and  Babylonia  was 
thus  removed  from  the  sphere  of  action.  The  city  of  Babylon  lost 
its  preeminence  as  the  center  of  the  civilized  world  when  political 
and  economic  activity  shifted  to  the  Mediterranean,  where  it  was 
destined  to  remain  for  many  centuries. 

Although  Alexander's  major  plans  for  Mesopotamia  were  unful- 
filled, and  his  generals  did  little  that  was  positive  for  Mesopota- 
mia, the  effects  of  the  Greek  occupation  were  noteworthy.  Alexander 
and  his  successors  built  scores  of  cities  in  the  Middle  East  that  were 
modeled  on  the  Greek  city-states.  One  of  the  most  important  was 
Seleucia  on  the  Tigris.  The  Hellenization  of  the  area  included  the 
introduction  of  Western  deities,  Western  art  forms,  and  Western 
thought.  Business  revived  in  Mesopotamia  because  one  of  the  Greek 
trade  routes  ran  through  the  new  cities.  Mesopotamia  exported 
barley,  wheat,  dates,  wool,  and  bitumen;  the  city  of  Seleucia 
exported  spices,  gold,  precious  stones,  and  ivory.  Cultural  inter- 
change between  Greek  and  Mesopotamian  scholars  was  responsi- 
ble for  the  saving  of  many  Mesopotamian  scientific,  especially 
astronomical,  texts. 

In  126  B.C.,  the  Parthians  (or  Arsacids),  an  intelligent,  nomadic 
people  who  had  migrated  from  the  steppes  of  Turkestan  to  north- 
eastern Iran,  captured  the  Tigris-Euphrates  river  valley.  Having 
previously  conquered  Iran,  the  Parthians  were  able  to  control  all 
trade  between  the  East  and  the  Greco-Roman  world.  For  the  most 
part,  they  chose  to  retain  existing  social  institutions  and  to  live  in 
cities  that  already  existed.  Mesopotamia  was  immeasurably  enriched 
by  this,  the  mildest  of  all  foreign  occupations  of  the  region.  The 
population  of  Mesopotamia  was  enormously  enlarged,  chiefly  by 
Arabs,  Iranians,  and  Aramaeans.  With  the  exception  of  the  Roman 
occupation  under  Trajan  (A.D.  98-117)  and  Septimius  Severus 
(A.D.  193-21 1),  the  Arsacids  ruled  until  a  new  force  of  native  Ira- 
nian rulers,  the  Sassanids,  conquered  the  region  in  A.D.  227. 

Little  information  is  available  on  the  Sassanid  occupation,  which 
lasted  until  A.D.  636.  The  north  was  devastated  by  battles  fought 
between  Romans  and  Sassanids.  For  the  most  part,  the  Sassanids 
appear  to  have  neglected  Mesopotamia.  By  the  time  the  enfeebled 
Sassanid  Empire  fell  to  Muslim  Arab  warriors,  Mesopotamia  was 
in  ruins,  and  Sumero- Akkadian  civilization  was  entirely  extin- 
guished. Sassanid  neglect  of  the  canals  and  irrigation  ditches  vital 
for  agriculture  had  allowed  the  rivers  to  flood,  and  parts  of  the  land 


14 


Historical  Setting 


had  become  sterile.  Nevertheless,  Mesopotamian  culture  passed 
on  many  traditions  to  the  West.  The  basic  principles  of  mathematics 
and  astronomy,  the  coronation  of  kings,  and  such  symbols  as  the 
tree  of  life,  the  Maltese  cross,  and  the  crescent  are  part  of  Mesopota- 
mia's legacy. 

The  Arab  Conquest  and  the  Coming  of  Islam 

The  power  that  toppled  the  Sassanids  came  from  an  unexpected 
source.  The  Iranians  knew  that  the  Arabs,  a  tribally  oriented  peo- 
ple, had  never  been  organized  under  the  rule  of  a  single  power 
and  were  at  a  primitive  level  of  military  development.  The  Irani- 
ans also  knew  of  the  Arabs  through  their  mutual  trading  activities 
and  because,  for  a  brief  period,  Yemen,  in  southern  Arabia,  was 
an  Iranian  satrapy. 

Events  in  Arabia  changed  rapidly  and  dramatically  in  the  sixth 
century  A.D.  when  Muhammad,  a  member  of  the  Hashimite  clan 
of  the  powerful  Quraysh  tribe  of  Mecca,  claimed  prophethood  and 
began  gathering  adherents  for  the  monotheistic  faith  of  Islam  that 
had  been  revealed  to  him  (see  Religious  Life,  ch.  2).  The  conver- 
sion of  Arabia  proved  to  be  the  most  difficult  of  the  Islamic  con- 
quests because  of  entrenched  tribalism.  Within  one  year  of 
Muhammad's  death  in  632,  however,  Arabia  was  secure  enough 
for  the  Prophet's  secular  successor,  Abu  Bakr  (632-634),  the  first 
caliph  and  the  father-in-law  of  Muhammad,  to  begin  the  campaign 
against  the  Byzantine  Empire  and  the  Sassanid  Empire. 

Islamic  forays  into  Iraq  began  during  the  reign  of  Abu  Bakr. 
In  634  an  army  of  18,000  Arab  tribesmen,  under  the  leadership 
of  the  brilliant  general  Khalid  ibn  al  Walid  (aptly  nicknamed  "The 
Sword  of  Islam"),  reached  the  perimeter  of  the  Euphrates  delta. 
Although  the  occupying  Iranian  force  was  vastly  superior  in  tech- 
niques and  numbers,  its  soldiers  were  exhausted  from  their  unre- 
mitting campaigns  against  the  Byzantines.  The  Sassanid  troops 
fought  ineffectually,  lacking  sufficient  reinforcement  to  do  more. 
The  first  battle  of  the  Arab  campaign  became  known  as  the  Battle 
of  the  Chains  because  Iranian  soldiers  were  reputedly  chained 
together  so  that  they  could  not  flee.  Khalid  offered  the  inhabitants 
of  Iraq  an  ultimatum:  "Accept  the  faith  and  you  are  safe;  other- 
wise pay  tribute.  If  you  refuse  to  do  either,  you  have  only  yourself 
to  blame.  A  people  is  already  upon  you,  loving  death  as  you  love 
life." 

Most  of  the  Iraqi  tribes  were  Christian  at  the  time  of  the  Islamic 
conquest.  They  decided  to  pay  the  jizya,  the  tax  required  of  non- 
Muslims  living  in  Muslim-ruled  areas,  and  were  not  further  dis- 
turbed. The  Iranians  rallied  briefly  under  their  hero,  Rustam,  and 


15 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

attacked  the  Arabs  at  Al  Hirah,  west  of  the  Euphrates.  There,  they 
were  soundly  defeated  by  the  invading  Arabs.  The  next  year,  in 
635,  the  Arabs  defeated  the  Iranians  at  the  Battle  of  Buwayb. 
Finally,  in  May  636  at  Al  Qadisiyah,  a  village  south  of  Baghdad 
on  the  Euphrates,  Rustam  was  killed.  The  Iranians,  who  outnum- 
bered the  Arabs  six  to  one,  were  decisively  beaten.  From  Al 
Qadisiyah  the  Arabs  pushed  on  to  the  Sassanid  capital  at  Ctesi- 
phon  (Madain). 

The  Islamic  conquest  was  made  easier  because  both  the  Byzan- 
tine Empire  and  the  Sassanid  Empire  were  culturally  and  socially 
bankrupt;  thus,  the  native  populations  had  little  to  lose  by  cooper- 
ating with  the  conquering  power.  Because  the  Muslim  warriors 
were  fighting  a  jihad  (holy  war),  they  were  regulated  by  religious 
law  that  strictly  prohibited  rape  and  the  killing  of  women,  chil- 
dren, religious  leaders,  or  anyone  who  had  not  actually  engaged 
in  warfare.  Further,  the  Muslim  warriors  had  come  to  conquer  and 
settle  a  land  under  Islamic  law.  It  was  not  in  their  economic  inter- 
est to  destroy  or  pillage  unnecessarily  and  indiscriminately. 

The  caliph  Umar  (634-44)  ordered  the  founding  of  two  garri- 
soned cities  to  protect  the  newly  conquered  territory:  Kufah,  named 
as  the  capital  of  Iraq,  and  Basra,  which  was  also  to  be  a  port.  Umar 
also  organized  the  administration  of  the  conquered  Iranian  lands. 
Acting  on  the  advice  of  an  Iranian,  Umar  continued  the  Sassanid 
office  of  the  divan  (Arabic  form  diwan).  Essentially  an  institution 
to  control  income  and  expenditure  through  record  keeping  and  the 
centralization  of  administration,  the  divan  would  be  used  henceforth 
throughout  the  lands  of  the  Islamic  conquest.  Dihqans,  minor  reve- 
nue collection  officials  under  the  Sassanids,  retained  their  func- 
tion of  assessing  and  collecting  taxes.  Tax  collectors  in  Iraq  had 
never  enjoyed  universal  popularity,  but  the  Arabs  found  them  par- 
ticularly noxious.  Arabic  replaced  Persian  as  the  official  language, 
and  it  slowly  filtered  into  common  usage.  Iraqis  intermarried  with 
Arabs  and  converted  to  Islam. 

By  650  Muslim  armies  had  reached  the  Amu  Darya  (Oxus  River) 
and  had  conquered  all  the  Sassanid  domains,  although  some  were 
more  strongly  held  than  others.  Shortly  thereafter,  Arab  expan- 
sion and  conquest  virtually  ceased.  Thereafter,  the  groups  in  power 
directed  their  energies  to  maintaining  the  status  quo  while  those 
outside  the  major  power  structure  devoted  themselves  to  political 
and  religious  rebellion.  The  ideologies  of  the  rebellions  usually  were 
couched  in  religious  terms.  Frequently,  a  difference  in  the  interpre- 
tation of  a  point  of  doctrine  was  sufficient  to  spark  armed  warfare. 
More  often,  however,  religious  disputes  were  the  rationalization 
for  underlying  nationalistic  or  cultural  dissatisfactions. 


16 


Historical  Setting 


The  Sunni-Shia  Controversy 

The  most  critical  problem  that  faced  the  young  Islamic  commu- 
nity revolved  around  the  rightful  successor  to  the  office  of  caliph. 
Uthman,  the  third  caliph,  had  encountered  opposition  during  and 
after  his  election  to  the  caliphate.  Ali  ibn  Abu  Talib,  the  Prophet 
Muhammad's  cousin  and  son-in-law  (by  virtue  of  his  marrying 
the  Prophet's  only  surviving  child,  Fatima),  had  been  the  other 
contender. 

Ali's  pietism  was  disquieting  to  certain  vested-interest  groups, 
who  perceived  the  more  conservative  Uthman  as  more  likely  to 
continue  the  policies  of  the  previous  caliph,  Umar.  Discontent 
increased,  as  did  Ali's  formal  opposition  to  Uthman  based  on  reli- 
gious grounds.  Ali  claimed  that  innovations  had  been  introduced 
that  were  not  consonant  with  Quranic  directives.  Economics  was 
the  key  factor  for  most  of  the  members  of  the  opposition,  but  this, 
too,  acquired  religious  overtones. 

As  a  result  of  the  rapid  military  expansion  of  the  Islamic  move- 
ment, financial  troubles  beset  Uthman.  Many  beduins  had  offered 
themselves  for  military  service  in  Iraq  and  in  Egypt.  Their  abstemi- 
ous and  hard  life  contrasted  with  the  leisured  life  of  Arabs  in  the 
Hijaz  (the  western  part  of  the  Arabian  Peninsula),  who  were 
enjoying  the  benefits  of  conquest.  When  these  volunteer  soldiers 
questioned  the  allocation  of  lands  and  the  distribution  of  revenues 
and  pensions,  they  found  a  ready  spokesman  in  Ali. 

Groups  of  malcontents  eventually  left  Iraq  and  Egypt  to  seek 
redress  at  Medina  in  the  Hijaz.  Uthman  promised  reforms,  but 
on  their  return  journey  the  rebels  intercepted  a  message  to  the  gover- 
nor of  Egypt  commanding  that  they  be  punished.  In  response,  the 
rebels  besieged  Uthman  in  his  home  in  Medina,  eventually  slay- 
ing him.  Uthman 's  slayer  was  a  Muslim  and  a  son  of  the  first  caliph, 
Abu  Bakr.  The  Muslim  world  was  shaken.  Ali,  who  had  not  taken 
part  in  the  siege,  was  chosen  caliph. 

Two  opponents  of  Ali  enlisted  Aisha,  a  widow  of  the  Prophet 
Muhammad,  to  join  them  in  accusing  Ali  and  demanding  retri- 
bution for  Uthman' s  death.  When  the  three  went  to  Iraq  to  seek 
support  for  their  cause,  Ali's  forces  engaged  theirs  near  Basra. 
Aisha' s  two  companions  were  killed,  and  Ali  was  clearly  victori- 
ous. Muawiyah,  a  kinsman  of  Uthman  and  the  governor  of  Syria, 
then  refused  to  recognize  Ali,  and  he  demanded  the  right  to  avenge 
his  relative's  death.  In  what  was  perhaps  the  most  important  bat- 
tle fought  between  Muslims,  Ali's  forces  met  Muawiyah' s  at  the 
Plain  of  Siffin  near  the  largest  bend  of  the  Euphrates  River.  Mua- 
wiyah's  forces,  seeing  that  they  were  losing,  proposed  arbitration. 


17 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Accordingly,  two  arbitrators  were  chosen  to  decide  whether  Uth- 
man's  death  had  been  deserved.  Such  a  decision  would  give  his 
slayer  status  as  an  executioner  rather  than  as  a  murderer  and  would 
remove  the  claims  of  Uthman's  relatives.  When  the  arbitrators 
decided  against  Ali,  he  protested  that  the  verdict  was  not  in  accor- 
dance with  sharia  (Islamic  law)  and  declared  his  intention  to  resume 
the  battle. 

Ali's  decision,  however,  came  too  late  for  the  more  extreme  of 
his  followers.  Citing  the  Quranic  injunction  to  fight  rebels  until 
they  obey,  these  followers  insisted  that  Ali  was  morally  wrong  to 
submit  to  arbitration.  In  doing  so,  they  claimed,  he  bowed  to  the 
judgment  of  men — as  opposed  to  the  judgment  of  God  that  would 
have  been  revealed  by  the  outcome  of  the  battle.  These  dissenters, 
known  as  Kharajites  (from  the  verb  kharaja — to  go  out),  withdrew 
from  battle,  an  action  that  had  far-reaching  political  effects  on  the 
Islamic  community  in  the  centuries  ahead.  Before  resuming  his 
dispute  with  Muawiyah,  Ali  appealed  to  the  Kharajites;  when  they 
rejected  the  appeal,  he  massacred  many  of  them.  Furious  at  his 
treatment  of  pious  Muslims,  most  of  Ali's  forces  deserted  him.  He 
was  forced  to  return  to  Al  Kufah — about  150  kilometers  south  of 
Baghdad — and  to  await  developments  within  the  Islamic  com- 
munity. 

A  number  of  Islamic  leaders  met  at  Adruh  in  present-day  Jor- 
dan, and  the  same  two  arbitrators  from  Siffin  devised  a  solution 
to  the  succession  problem.  At  last  it  was  announced  that  neither 
Ali  nor  Muawiyah  should  be  caliph;  Abd  Allah,  a  son  of  Umar, 
was  proposed.  The  meeting  terminated  in  confusion,  however,  and 
no  final  decision  was  reached.  Both  Ali  and  Muawiyah  bided  their 
time  in  their  separate  governorships:  Muawiyah,  who  had  been 
declared  caliph  by  some  of  his  supporters,  in  newly  conquered 
Egypt,  and  Ali,  in  Iraq.  Muawiyah  fomented  discontent  among 
those  only  partially  committed  to  Ali.  While  praying  in  a  mosque 
at  Al  Kufah,  Ali  was  murdered  by  a  Kharajite  in  661 .  The  ambi- 
tious Muawiyah  induced  Ali's  eldest  son,  Hasan,  to  renounce  his 
claim  to  the  caliphate.  Hasan  died  shortly  thereafter,  probably  of 
consumption,  but  the  Shias  (see  Glossary)  later  claimed  that  he 
had  been  poisoned  and  dubbed  him  "Lord  of  All  Martyrs."  Ali's 
unnatural  death  ensured  the  future  of  the  Shia  movement — Ali's 
followers  returned  to  his  cause — and  quickened  its  momentum. 
With  the  single  exception  of  the  Prophet  Muhammad,  no  man  has 
had  a  greater  impact  on  Islamic  history.  The  Shia  declaration  of 
faith  is:  "There  is  no  God  but  God;  Muhammad  is  his  Prophet 
and  Ali  is  the  Saint  of  God." 


18 


Arch  of  Ctesiphon 
Courtesy  Ronald  L.  Kuipers 


Subsequently,  Muawiyah  was  declared  caliph.  Thus  began  the 
Umayyad  Dynasty,  which  had  its  capital  at  Damascus.  Yazid  I, 
Muawiyah' s  son  and  his  successor  in  680,  was  unable  to  contain 
the  opposition  that  his  strong  father  had  vigorously  quelled.  Husayn, 
Ali's  second  son,  refused  to  pay  homage  and  fled  to  Mecca,  where 
he  was  asked  to  lead  the  Shias — mostly  Iraqis — in  a  revolt  against 
Yazid  I.  Ubayd  Allah,  governor  of  Al  Kufah,  discovered  the  plot 
and  sent  detachments  to  dissuade  him.  At  Karbala,  in  Iraq, 
Husayn' s  band  of  200  men  and  women  refused  to  surrender  and 
finally  were  cut  down  by  a  force  of  perhaps  4,000  Umayyad  troops. 
Yazid  I  received  Husayn' s  head,  and  Husayn' s  death  on  the  tenth 
of  Muharram  (October  10,  680)  continues  to  be  observed  as  a  day 
of  mourning  for  all  Shias.  Ali's  burial  place  at  An  Najaf,  about 
130  kilometers  south  of  Baghdad,  and  Husayn's  at  Karbala,  about 
80  kilometers  southwest  of  Baghdad,  are  holy  places  of  pilgrimage 
for  Shias,  many  of  whom  feel  that  a  pilgrimage  to  both  sites  is  equal 
to  a  pilgrimage  to  Mecca  (see  Religious  Life,  ch.  2). 

The  importance  of  these  events  in  the  history  of  Islam  cannot 
be  overemphasized.  They  created  the  greatest  of  the  Islamic  schisms, 
between  the  party  of  Ali  (the  Shiat  Ali,  known  in  the  West  as  Shias 
or  Shiites)  and  the  upholders  of  Muawiyah  (the  Ahl  as  Sunna,  the 
People  of  the  Sunna — those  who  follow  Muhammad's  custom  and 
example)  or  the  Sunnis  (see  Glossary).  The  Sunnis  believe  they 


19 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

are  the  followers  of  orthodoxy.  The  ascendancy  of  the  Umayyads 
and  the  events  at  Karbala,  in  contrast,  led  to  a  Shia  Islam  which, 
although  similar  to  Sunni  Islam  in  its  basic  tenets,  maintains  impor- 
tant doctrinal  differences  that  have  had  pervasive  effects  on  the  Shia 
world  view.  Most  notably,  Shias  have  viewed  themselves  as  the 
opposition  in  Islam,  the  opponents  of  privilege  and  power.  They 
believe  that  after  the  death  of  Ali  and  the  ascension  of  the  "usurper" 
Umayyads  to  the  caliphate,  Islam  took  the  wrong  path;  therefore, 
obedience  to  existing  temporal  authority  is  not  obligatory.  Further- 
more, in  sacrificing  his  own  life  for  a  just  cause,  Husayn  became 
the  archetypal  role  model  who  inspired  generations  of  Shias  to  fight 
for  social  equality  and  for  economic  justice. 

During  his  caliphate,  Ali  had  made  Al  Kufah  his  capital.  The 
transfer  of  power  to  Syria  and  to  its  capital  at  Damascus  aroused 
envy  among  Iraqis.  The  desire  to  regain  preeminence  prompted 
numerous  rebellions  in  Iraq  against  Umayyad  rule.  Consequently, 
only  men  of  unusual  ability  were  sent  to  be  governors  of  Al  Basrah 
and  Al  Kufah.  One  of  the  most  able  was  Ziyad  ibn  Abihi,  who 
was  initially  governor  of  Al  Basrah  and  later  also  of  Al  Kufah.  Ziyad 
divided  the  residents  of  Al  Kufah  into  four  groups  (not  based  on 
tribal  affiliation)  and  appointed  a  leader  for  each  one.  He  also  sent 
50,000  beduins  to  Khorasan  (in  northeastern  Iran),  the  eastern- 
most province  of  the  empire,  which  was  within  the  jurisdiction  of 
Al  Basrah  and  Al  Kufah. 

The  Iraqis  once  again  became  restive  when  rival  claimants  for 
the  Umayyad  caliphate  waged  civil  war  between  687  and  692.  Ibn 
Yusuf  ath  Thaqafi  al  Aajjay  was  sent  as  provincial  governor  to 
restore  order  in  Iraq  in  694.  He  pacified  Iraq  and  encouraged  both 
agriculture  and  education. 

The  Abbasid  Caliphate,  750-1258 

Many  unsuccessful  Iraqi  and  Iranian  insurrectionists  had  fled 
to  Khorasan,  in  addition  to  the  50,000  beduins  who  had  been  sent 
there  by  Ziyad.  There,  at  the  city  of  Merv  (present-day  Mary  in 
the  Soviet  Union),  a  faction  that  supported  Abd  al  Abbas  (a  descen- 
dant of  the  Prophet's  uncle),  was  able  to  organize  the  rebels  under 
the  battle  cry,  "the  House  of  Hashim."  Hashim,  the  Prophet 
Muhammad's  grandfather,  was  an  ancestor  of  both  the  Shia  line 
and  the  Abbas  line,  and  the  Shias  therefore  actively  supported  the 
Hashimite  leader,  Abu  Muslim.  In  747,  Abu  Muslim's  army 
attacked  the  Umayyads  and  occupied  Iraq.  In  750,  Abd  al  Abbas 
(not  a  Shia)  was  established  in  Baghdad  as  the  first  caliph  of  the 
Abbasid  Dynasty.  The  Abbasids,  whose  line  was  called  "the  blessed 
dynasty"  by  it  supporters,  presented  themselves  to  the  people  as 


20 


Historical  Setting 


divine-right  rulers  who  would  initiate  a  new  era  of  justice  and 
prosperity.  Their  political  policies  were,  however,  remarkably  simi- 
lar to  those  of  the  Umayyads. 

During  the  reign  of  its  first  seven  caliphs,  Baghdad  became  a 
center  of  power  where  Arab  and  Iranian  cultures  mingled  to 
produce  a  blaze  of  philosophical,  scientific,  and  literary  glory.  This 
era  is  remembered  throughout  the  Arab  world,  and  by  Iraqis  in 
particular,  as  the  pinnacle  of  the  Islamic  past.  It  was  the  second 
Abbasid  caliph,  Al  Mansur  (754-75),  who  decided  to  build  a  new 
capital,  surrounded  by  round  walls,  near  the  site  of  the  Sassanid 
village  of  Baghdad.  Within  fifty  years  the  population  outgrew  the 
city  walls  as  people  thronged  to  the  capital  to  become  part  of  the 
Abbasids'  enormous  bureaucracy  or  to  engage  in  trade.  Baghdad 
became  a  vast  emporium  of  trade  linking  Asia  and  the  Mediterra- 
nean (see  fig.  3).  By  the  reign  of  Mansur' s  grandson,  Harun  ar 
Rashid  (786-806),  Baghdad  was  second  in  size  only  to  Constan- 
tinople. Baghdad  was  able  to  feed  its  enormous  population  and  to 
export  large  quantities  of  grain  because  the  political  administra- 
tion had  realized  the  importance  of  controlling  the  flows  of  the  Tigris 
and  the  Euphrates  rivers.  The  Abbasids  reconstructed  the  city's 
canals,  dikes,  and  reservoirs,  and  drained  the  swamps  around  Bagh- 
dad, freeing  the  city  of  malaria. 

Harun  ar  Rashid,  the  caliph  of  the  Arabian  Nights,  actively  sup- 
ported intellectual  pursuits,  but  the  great  flowering  of  Arabic  cul- 
ture that  is  credited  to  the  Abbasids  reached  its  apogee  during  the 
reign  of  his  son,  Al  Mamun  (813-33).  After  the  death  of  Harun 
ar  Rashid,  his  sons,  Amin  and  Al  Mamun,  quarreled  over  the  suc- 
cession to  the  caliphate.  Their  dispute  soon  erupted  into  civil  war. 
Amin  was  backed  by  the  Iraqis,  while  Al  Mamun  had  the  support 
of  the  Iranians.  Al  Mamun  also  had  the  support  of  the  garrison 
at  Khorasan  and  thus  was  able  to  take  Baghdad  in  813.  Although 
Sunni  Muslims,  the  Abbasids  had  hoped  that  by  astute  and  stern 
rule  they  would  be  able  to  contain  Shia  resentment  at  yet  another 
Sunni  dynasty.  The  Iranians,  many  of  whom  were  Shias,  had  hoped 
that  Al  Mamun  would  make  his  capital  in  their  own  country,  pos- 
sibly at  Merv.  Al  Mamun,  however,  eventually  realized  that  the 
Iraqi  Shias  would  never  countenance  the  loss  of  prestige  and  eco- 
nomic power  if  they  no  longer  had  the  capital.  He  decided  to  center 
his  rule  in  Baghdad. 

Disappointed,  the  Iranians  began  to  break  away  from  Abbasid 
control.  A  series  of  local  dynasties  appeared:  the  Tahirids  (821-873), 
the  Suffarids  (867-ca.  1495),  and  the  Samanids  (819-1005).  The 
same  process  was  repeated  in  the  West:  Spain  broke  away  in  756, 
Morocco  in  788,  Tunisia  in  800,  and  Egypt  in  868.  In  Iraq  there 


21 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Historical  Setting 


was  trouble  in  the  south.  In  869,  Ali  ibn  Muhammad  (Ali  the 
Abominable)  founded  a  state  of  black  slaves  known  as  Zanj.  The 
Zanj  brought  a  large  part  of  southern  Iraq  and  southwestern  Iran 
under  their  control  and  in  the  process  enslaved  many  of  their  former 
masters.  The  Zanj  Rebellion  was  finally  put  down  in  883,  but  not 
before  it  had  caused  great  suffering. 

The  Sunni-Shia  split  had  weakened  the  effectiveness  of  Islam 
as  a  single  unifying  force  and  as  a  sanction  for  a  single  political 
authority.  Although  the  intermingling  of  various  linguistic  and  cul- 
tural groups  contributed  greatly  to  the  enrichment  of  Islamic  civili- 
zation, it  also  was  a  source  of  great  tension  and  contributed  to  the 
decay  of  Abbasid  power. 

In  addition  to  the  cleavages  between  Arabs  and  Iranians  and 
between  Sunnis  and  Shias,  the  growing  prominence  of  Turks  in 
military  and  in  political  affairs  gave  cause  for  discontent  and  rivalry 
at  court.  Nomadic,  Turkic- speaking  warriors  had  been  moving  out 
of  Central  Asia  into  Transoxiana  (i.e.,  across  the  Oxus  River)  for 
more  than  a  millennium.  The  Abbasid  caliphs  began  importing 
Turks  as  slave- warriors  (Mamluks)  early  in  the  ninth  century.  The 
imperial  palace  guards  of  the  Abbasids  were  Mamluks  who  were 
originally  commanded  by  free  Iraqi  officers.  By  833,  however, 
Mamluks  themselves  were  officers  and  gradually,  because  of  their 
greater  military  proficiency  and  dedication,  they  began  to  occupy 
high  positions  at  court.  The  mother  of  Caliph  Mutasim  (who  came 
to  power  in  833)  had  been  a  Turkish  slave,  and  her  influence  was 
substantial.  By  the  tenth  century,  the  Turkish  commanders,  no 
longer  checked  by  their  Iranian  and  Arab  rivals  at  court,  were  able 
to  appoint  and  depose  caliphs.  For  the  first  time,  the  political  power 
of  the  caliphate  was  fully  separated  from  its  religious  function.  The 
Mamluks  continued  to  permit  caliphs  to  come  to  power  because 
of  the  importance  of  the  office  as  a  symbol  for  legitimizing  claims 
to  authority. 

In  945,  after  subjugating  western  Iran,  a  military  family  known 
as  the  Buwayhids  occupied  Baghdad.  Shias  from  the  Iranian 
province  of  Daylam  south  of  the  Caspian  Sea,  the  Buwayhids  con- 
tinued to  permit  Sunni  Abbasid  caliphs  to  ascend  to  the  throne. 
The  humiliation  of  the  caliphate  at  being  manipulated  by  Shias, 
and  by  Iranian  ones  at  that,  was  immense. 

The  Buwayhids  were  ousted  in  1055  by  another  group  of  Turkic 
speakers,  the  Seljuks.  The  Seljuks  were  the  ruling  clan  of  the  Kinik 
group  of  the  Oghuz  (or  Ghuzz)  Turks,  who  lived  north  of  the  Oxus 
River.  Their  leader,  Tughril  Beg,  turned  his  warriors  first  against 
the  local  ruler  in  Khorasan.  He  moved  south  and  then  west,  con- 
quering but  not  destroying  the  cities  in  his  path.  In  1055  the  caliph 


23 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


in  Baghdad  gave  Tughril  Beg  robes,  gifts,  and  the  title,  "King  of 
the  East."  Because  the  Seljuks  were  Sunnis,  their  rule  was  wel- 
comed in  Baghdad.  They  treated  the  caliphs  with  respect,  but  the 
latter  continued  to  be  only  figureheads. 

There  were  several  lines  of  Seljuks.  The  main  line,  ruling  from 
Baghdad,  controlled  the  area  from  the  Bosporus  to  Chinese  Turke- 
stan until  approximately  1155.  The  Seljuks  continued  to  expand 
their  territories,  but  they  were  content  to  let  Iraqis  and  Iranians 
simply  pay  tribute  while  administering  and  ruling  their  own  lands. 
One  Seljuk,  Malek  Shah,  extended  Turkish  rule  to  the  countries 
of  the  eastern  Mediterranean,  Asia  Minor,  and  to  parts  of  Arabia. 
During  his  rule,  Iraq  and  Iran  enjoyed  a  cultural  and  scientific 
renaissance.  This  success  is  largely  attributed  to  Malek  Shah's  bril- 
liant Iranian  vizier,  Nizam  al  Mulk,  one  of  the  most  skillful  adminis- 
trators in  history.  An  astronomical  observatory  was  established  in 
which  Umar  (Omar)  Khayyam  did  much  of  his  experimentation 
for  a  new  calendar,  and  religious  schools  were  built  in  all  the  major 
towns.  Abu  Hamid  al  Ghazali,  one  of  the  greatest  Islamic  theo- 
logians, and  other  eminent  scholars  were  brought  to  the  Seljuk  capi- 
tal at  Baghdad  and  were  encouraged  and  supported  in  their  work. 

After  the  death  of  Malek  Shah  in  1092,  Seljuk  power  disinte- 
grated. Petty  dynasties  appeared  throughout  Iraq  and  Iran,  and 
rival  claimants  to  Seljuk  rule  dispatched  each  other.  Between  1118 
and  1194,  nine  Seljuk  sultans  ruled  Baghdad;  only  one  died  a 
natural  death.  The  atabegs  (see  Glossary),  who  initially  had  been 
majordomos  for  the  Seljuks,  began  to  assert  themselves.  Several 
founded  local  dynasties.  An  atabeg  originated  the  Zangid  Dynasty 
(1 127-1222),  with  its  seat  at  Mosul.  The  Zangids  were  instrumental 
in  encouraging  Muslims  to  oppose  the  invasions  of  the  Christian 
Crusaders.  Tughril  (1177-94),  the  last  Seljuk  sultan  of  Iraq,  was 
killed  by  the  leader  of  a  Turkish  dynasty,  the  Khwarizm  shahs, 
who  lived  south  of  the  Aral  Sea.  Before  his  successor  could  estab- 
lish Khwarizm  rule  in  Iraq,  however,  Baghdad  was  overrun  by 
the  Mongol  horde. 

The  Mongol  Invasion 

In  the  early  years  of  the  thirteenth  century,  a  powerful  Mongol 
leader  named  Temujin  brought  together  a  majority  of  the  Mongol 
tribes  and  led  them  on  a  devastating  sweep  through  China.  At  about 
this  time,  he  changed  his  name  to  Chinggis  (Genghis)  Khan,  mean- 
ing "World  Conqueror."  In  1219  he  turned  his  force  of  700,000 
west  and  quickly  devastated  Bokhara,  Samarkand,  Balkh,  Merv 
(all  in  what  is  now  the  Soviet  Union),  and  Neyshabur  (in  present- 
day  Iran),  where  he  slaughtered  every  living  thing.  Before  his  death 


24 


Historical  Setting 

in  1227,  Chinggis  Khan,  pillaging  and  burning  cities  along  the  way, 
had  reached  western  Azarbaijan  in  Iran.  After  Chinggis's  death, 
the  area  enjoyed  a  brief  respite  that  ended  with  the  arrival  of  Hulagu 
Khan  (1217-65),  Chinggis's  grandson.  In  1258  he  seized  Bagh- 
dad and  killed  the  last  Abbasid  caliph.  While  in  Baghdad,  Hulagu 
made  a  pyramid  of  the  skulls  of  Baghdad's  scholars,  religious  lead- 
ers, and  poets,  and  he  deliberately  destroyed  what  remained  of 
Iraq's  canal  headworks.  The  material  and  artistic  production  of 
centuries  was  swept  away.  Iraq  became  a  neglected  frontier  province 
ruled  from  the  Mongol  capital  of  Tabriz  in  Iran. 

After  the  death  in  1335  of  the  last  great  Mongol  khan,  Abu  Said 
(also  known  as  Bahadur  the  Brave),  a  period  of  political  confusion 
ensued  in  Iraq  until  a  local  petty  dynasty,  the  Jalayirids,  seized 
power.  The  Jalayirids  ruled  until  the  beginning  of  the  fifteenth  cen- 
tury. Jalayirid  rule  was  abruptly  checked  by  the  rising  power  of 
a  Mongol,  Tamerlane  (or  Timur  the  Lame,  1336-1405),  who  had 
been  atabeg  of  the  reigning  prince  of  Samarkand.  In  1401  he  sacked 
Baghdad  and  massacred  many  of  its  inhabitants.  Tamerlane  killed 
thousands  of  Iraqis  and  devastated  hundreds  of  towns.  Like  Hulagu, 
Tamerlane  had  a  penchant  for  building  pyramids  of  skulls.  Despite 
his  showy  display  of  Sunni  piety,  Tamerlane's  rule  virtually  extin- 
guished Islamic  scholarship  and  Islamic  arts  everywhere  except  in 
his  capital,  Samarkand. 

In  Iraq,  political  chaos,  severe  economic  depression,  and  social 
disintegration  followed  in  the  wake  of  the  Mongol  invasions.  Bagh- 
dad, long  a  center  of  trade,  rapidly  lost  its  commercial  importance. 
Basra,  which  had  been  a  key  transit  point  for  seaborne  commerce, 
was  circumvented  after  the  Portuguese  discovered  a  shorter  route 
around  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope.  In  agriculture,  Iraq's  once- 
extensive  irrigation  system  fell  into  disrepair,  creating  swamps  and 
marshes  at  the  edge  of  the  delta  and  dry,  uncultivated  steppes  far- 
ther out.  The  rapid  deterioration  of  settled  agriculture  led  to  the 
growth  of  tribally  based  pastoral  nomadism.  By  the  end  of  the  Mon- 
gol period,  the  focus  of  Iraqi  history  had  shifted  from  the  urban- 
based  Abbasid  culture  to  the  tribes  of  the  river  valleys,  where  it 
would  remain  until  well  into  the  twentieth  century. 

The  Ottoman  Period,  1534-1918 

From  the  sixteenth  to  the  twentieth  century,  the  course  of  Iraqi 
history  was  affected  by  the  continuing  conflicts  between  the  Safavid 
Empire  in  Iran  and  the  Ottoman  Turks.  The  Safavids,  who  were 
the  first  to  declare  Shia  Islam  the  official  religion  of  Iran,  sought 
to  control  Iraq  both  because  of  the  Shia  holy  places  at  An  Najaf 
and  Karbala  and  because  Baghdad,  the  seat  of  the  old  Abbasid 


25 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Empire,  had  great  symbolic  value.  The  Ottomans,  fearing  that  Shia 
Islam  would  spread  to  Anatolia  (Asia  Minor),  sought  to  maintain 
Iraq  as  a  Sunni-controlled  buffer  state.  In  1509  the  Safavids,  led 
by  Ismail  Shah  (1502-24),  conquered  Iraq,  thereby  initiating  a 
series  of  protracted  battles  with  the  Ottomans.  In  1514  Sultan  Selim 
the  Grim  attacked  Ismail's  forces  and  in  1535  the  Ottomans,  led 
by  Sultan  Suleyman  the  Magnificent  (1520-66),  conquered  Bagh- 
dad from  the  Safavids.  The  Safavids  reconquered  Baghdad  in  1623 
under  the  leadership  of  Shah  Abbas  (1587-1629),  but  they  were 
expelled  in  1638  after  a  series  of  brilliant  military  maneuvers  by 
the  dynamic  Ottoman  sultan,  Murad  IV  (see  fig.  4). 

The  major  impact  of  the  Safavid-Ottoman  conflict  on  Iraqi  his- 
tory was  the  deepening  of  the  Shia-Sunni  rift.  Both  the  Ottomans 
and  the  Safavids  used  Sunni  and  Shia  Islam  respectively  to  mobi- 
lize domestic  support.  Thus,  Iraq's  Sunni  population  suffered 
immeasurably  during  the  brief  Safavid  reign  (1623-38),  while  Iraq's 
Shias  were  excluded  from  power  altogether  during  the  longer  period 
of  Ottoman  supremacy  (1638-1916).  During  the  Ottoman  period, 
the  Sunnis  gained  the  administrative  experience  that  would  allow 
them  to  monopolize  political  power  in  the  twentieth  century.  The 
Sunnis  were  able  to  take  advantage  of  new  economic  and  educa- 
tional opportunities  while  the  Shias,  frozen  out  of  the  political 
process,  remained  politically  impotent  and  economically  depressed. 
The  Shia-Sunni  rift  continued  as  an  important  element  of  Iraqi 
social  structure  in  the  1980s  (see  Religious  Life,  ch.  2). 

By  the  seventeenth  century,  the  frequent  conflicts  with  the 
Safavids  had  sapped  the  strength  of  the  Ottoman  Empire  and  had 
weakened  its  control  over  its  provinces.  In  Iraq,  tribal  authority 
once  again  dominated;  the  history  of  nineteenth-century  Iraq  is 
a  chronicle  of  tribal  migrations  and  of  conflict.  The  nomadic  popu- 
lation swelled  with  the  influx  of  beduins  from  Najd,  in  the  Arabian 
Peninsula.  Beduin  raids  on  settled  areas  became  impossible  to  curb. 
In  the  interior,  the  large  and  powerful  Muntafiq  tribal  confedera- 
tion took  shape  under  the  leadership  of  the  Sunni  Saadun  family 
of  Mecca.  In  the  desert  southwest,  the  Shammar — one  of  the  big- 
gest tribal  confederations  of  the  Arabian  Peninsula — entered  the 
Syrian  desert  and  clashed  with  the  Anayzah  confederation.  On  the 
lower  Tigris  near  Al  Amarah,  a  new  tribal  confederation,  the  Bani 
Lam,  took  root.  In  the  north,  the  Kurdish  Baban  Dynasty  emerged 
and  organized  Kurdish  resistance.  The  resistance  made  it  impos- 
sible for  the  Ottomans  to  maintain  even  nominal  suzerainty  over 
Iraqi  Kurdistan  (land  of  the  Kurds).  Between  1625  and  1668,  and 
from  1694  to  1701,  local  shaykhs  ruled  Al  Basrah  and  the 


26 


Historical  Setting 


marshlands,  home  of  the  Madan  (Marsh  Arabs).  The  powerful 
shaykhs  basically  ignored  the  Ottoman  governor  of  Baghdad. 

The  cycle  of  tribal  warfare  and  of  deteriorating  urban  life  that 
began  in  the  thirteenth  century  with  the  Mongol  invasions  was  tem- 
porarily reversed  with  the  reemergence  of  the  Mamluks.  In  the  early 
eighteenth  century,  the  Mamluks  began  asserting  authority  apart 
from  the  Ottomans.  Extending  their  rule  first  over  Basra,  the  Mam- 
luks eventually  controlled  the  Tigris  and  Euphrates  river  valleys 
from  the  Persian  Gulf  to  the  foothills  of  Kurdistan.  For  the  most 
part,  the  Mamluks  were  able  administrators,  and  their  rule  was 
marked  by  political  stability  and  by  economic  revival.  The  greatest 
of  the  Mamluk  leaders,  Suleyman  the  II  (1780-1802),  made  great 
strides  in  imposing  the  rule  of  law.  The  last  Mamluk  leader,  Daud 
(1816-31),  initiated  important  modernization  programs  that 
included  clearing  canals,  establishing  industries,  training  a 
20,000-man  army,  and  starting  a  printing  press. 

The  Mamluk  period  ended  in  1831,  when  a  severe  flood  and 
plague  devastated  Baghdad,  enabling  the  Ottoman  sultan,  Mah- 
mud  II,  to  reassert  Ottoman  sovereignty  over  Iraq.  Ottoman  rule 
was  unstable;  Baghdad,  for  example,  had  more  than  ten  gover- 
nors between  1831  and  1869.  In  1869,  however,  the  Ottomans 
regained  authority  when  the  reform-minded  Midhat  Pasha  was 
appointed  governor  of  Baghdad.  Midhat  immediately  set  out  to 
modernize  Iraq  on  the  Western  model.  The  primary  objectives  of 
Midhat 's  reforms,  called  the  tanzimat,  were  to  reorganize  the  army, 
to  create  codes  of  criminal  and  commercial  law,  to  secularize  the 
school  system,  and  to  improve  provincial  administration.  He  created 
provincial  representative  assemblies  to  assist  the  governor,  and  he 
set  up  elected  municipal  councils  in  the  major  cities.  Staffed  largely 
by  Iraqi  notables  with  no  strong  ties  to  the  masses,  the  new  offices 
nonetheless  helped  a  group  of  Iraqis  gain  administrative  experience. 

By  establishing  government  agencies  in  the  cities  and  by  attempt- 
ing to  settle  the  tribes,  Midhat  altered  the  tribal-urban  balance  of 
power,  which  since  the  thirteenth  century  had  been  largely  in  favor 
of  the  tribes.  The  most  important  element  of  Midhat' s  plan  to 
extend  Ottoman  authority  into  the  countryside  was  the  1858  TAPU 
land  law  (named  after  the  initials  of  the  government  office  issuing 
it).  The  new  land  reform  replaced  the  feudal  system  of  land  hold- 
ings and  tax  farms  with  legally  sanctioned  property  rights.  It  was 
designed  both  to  induce  tribal  shaykhs  to  settle  and  to  give  them 
a  stake  in  the  existing  political  order.  In  practice,  the  TAPU  laws 
enabled  the  tribal  shaykhs  to  become  large  landowners;  tribesmen, 
fearing  that  the  new  law  was  an  attempt  to  collect  taxes  more 
effectively  or  to  impose  conscription,  registered  community-owned 


27 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Historical  Setting 


tribal  lands  in  their  shaykhs'  names  or  sold  them  outright  to  urban 
speculators.  As  a  result,  tribal  shaykhs  gradually  were  transformed 
into  profit-seeking  landlords  while  their  tribesmen  were  relegated 
to  the  role  of  impoverished  sharecroppers. 

Midhat  also  attempted  to  replace  Iraq's  clerically  run  Islamic 
school  system  with  a  more  secular  educational  system.  The  new, 
secular  schools  provided  a  channel  of  upward  social  mobility  to  chil- 
dren of  all  classes,  and  they  led  slowly  to  the  growth  of  an  Iraqi 
intelligentsia.  They  also  introduced  students  for  the  first  time  to 
Western  languages  and  disciplines. 

The  introduction  of  Western  disciplines  in  the  schools  accom- 
panied a  greater  Western  political  and  economic  presence  in  Iraq. 
The  British  had  established  a  consulate  at  Baghdad  in  1802,  and 
a  French  consulate  followed  shortly  thereafter.  European  interest 
in  modernizing  Iraq  to  facilitate  Western  commercial  interests  coin- 
cided with  the  Ottoman  reforms.  Steamboats  appeared  on  the  rivers 
in  1836,  the  telegraph  was  introduced  in  1861,  and  the  Suez  Canal 
was  opened  in  1869,  providing  Iraq  with  greater  access  to  Euro- 
pean markets.  The  landowning  tribal  shaykhs  began  to  export  cash 
crops  to  the  capitalist  markets  of  the  West. 

In  1908  a  new  ruling  clique,  the  Young  Turks,  took  power  in 
Istanbul.  The  Young  Turks  aimed  at  making  the  Ottoman  Empire 
a  unified  nation-state  based  on  Western  models.  They  stressed  secu- 
lar politics  and  patriotism  over  the  pan-Islamic  ideology  preached 
by  Sultan  Abd  al  Hamid.  They  reintroduced  the  1876  constitu- 
tion (this  Ottoman  constitution  set  forth  the  rights  of  the  ruler  and 
the  ruled,  but  it  derived  from  the  ruler  and  has  been  called  at  best 
an  "attenuated  autocracy"),  held  elections  throughout  the  empire, 
and  reopened  parliament.  Although  the  Iraqi  delegates  represented 
only  the  well-established  families  of  Baghdad,  their  parliamentary 
experience  in  Istanbul  proved  to  be  an  important  introduction  to 
self-government . 

Most  important  to  the  history  of  Iraq,  the  Young  Turks  aggres- 
sively pursued  a  "Turkification"  policy  that  alienated  the  nascent 
Iraqi  intelligentsia  and  set  in  motion  a  fledgling  Arab  nationalist 
movement.  Encouraged  by  the  Young  Turks'  Revolution  of  1908, 
nationalists  in  Iraq  stepped  up  their  political  activity.  Iraqi  nation- 
alists met  in  Cairo  with  the  Ottoman  Decentralization  Party,  and 
some  Iraqis  joined  the  Young  Arab  Society,  which  moved  to  Beirut 
in  1913.  Because  of  its  greater  exposure  to  Westerners  who  encour- 
aged the  nationalists,  Basra  became  the  center  from  which  Iraqi 
nationalists  began  to  demand  a  measure  of  autonomy.  After  nearly 
400  years  under  Ottoman  rule,  Iraq  was  ill-prepared  to  form  a 
nation-state.  The  Ottomans  had  failed  to  control  Iraq's  rebellious 


29 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

tribal  domains,  and  even  in  the  cities  their  authority  was  tenuous. 
The  Ottomans'  inability  to  provide  security  led  to  the  growth  of 
autonomous,  self-contained  communities.  As  a  result,  Iraq  entered 
the  twentieth  century  beset  by  a  complex  web  of  social  conflicts 
that  seriously  impeded  the  process  of  building  a  modern  state. 

The  oldest  and  most  deeply  ingrained  conflict  was  the  competi- 
tion between  the  tribes  and  the  cities  for  control  over  the  food- 
producing  flatlands  of  the  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates  rivers.  The 
centralization  policies  of  the  Sublime  Porte  (Ottoman  government), 
especially  in  the  nineteenth  century,  constituted  a  direct  threat  to 
the  nomadic  structure  and  the  fierce  fighting  spirit  of  the  tribes. 
In  addition  to  tribal-urban  conflicts,  the  tribes  fought  among  them- 
selves, and  there  was  a  fairly  rigid  hierarchy  between  the  most 
powerful  tribes,  the  so-called  "people  of  the  camel,"  and  the  weaker 
tribes  that  included  the  "people  of  the  sheep,"  marshdwellers,  and 
peasants.  The  cities  also  were  sharply  divided,  both  according  to 
occupation  and  along  religious  lines.  The  various  guilds  resided 
in  distinct,  autonomous  areas,  and  Shia  and  Sunni  Muslims  rarely 
intermingled.  The  territory  that  eventually  became  the  state  of  Iraq 
was  beset,  furthermore,  by  regional  differences  in  orientation; 
Mosul  in  the  north  had  historically  looked  to  Syria  and  to  Turkey, 
whereas  Baghdad  and  the  Shia  holy  cities  had  maintained  close 
ties  with  Iran  and  with  the  people  of  the  western  and  southwestern 
deserts. 

Although  Ottoman  weakness  had  allowed  Iraq's  self-contained 
communities  to  grow  stronger,  the  modernization  initiated  by  the 
Sublime  Porte  tended  to  break  down  traditional  autonomous  group- 
ings and  to  create  a  new  social  order.  Beginning  with  the  tanzimat 
reforms  in  1869,  Iraq's  mostly  subsistence  economy  slowly  was 
transformed  into  a  market  economy  based  on  money  and  tied  to 
the  world  capitalist  market.  Social  status  traditionally  had  been 
determined  by  noble  lineage,  by  fighting  prowess,  and  by  knowledge 
of  religion.  With  the  advent  of  capitalism,  social  status  increasingly 
was  determined  by  property  ownership  and  by  the  accumulation 
of  wealth.  Most  disruptive  in  this  regard  was  the  TAPU  land  reform 
of  1858.  Concomitantly,  Western  social  and  economic  penetration 
increased;  for  example,  Iraq's  traditional  crafts  and  craftsmen 
gradually  were  displaced  by  mass-produced  British  machine-made 
textiles. 

The  final  Ottoman  legacy  in  Iraq  is  related  to  the  policies  of  the 
Young  Turks  and  to  the  creation  of  a  small  but  vocal  Iraqi  intel- 
ligentsia. Faced  with  the  rapidly  encroaching  West,  the  Young 
Turks  attempted  to  centralize  the  empire  by  imposing  upon  it  the 
Turkish  language  and  culture  and  by  clamping  down  on  newly  won 


30 


Historical  Setting 


political  freedoms.  These  Turkification  policies  alienated  many  of 
the  Ottoman-trained  intelligentsia  who  had  originally  aligned  them- 
selves with  the  Young  Turks  in  the  hope  of  obtaining  greater  Arab 
autonomy.  Despite  its  relatively  small  size,  the  nascent  Iraqi  intel- 
ligentsia formed  several  secret  nationalist  societies.  The  most 
important  of  these  societies  was  Al  Ahd  (the  Covenant),  whose 
membership  was  drawn  almost  entirely  from  Iraqi  officers  in  the 
Ottoman  army.  Membership  in  Al  Ahd  spread  rapidly  in  Bagh- 
dad and  in  Mosul,  growing  to  4,000  by  the  outbreak  of  World 
War  I.  Despite  the  existence  of  Al  Ahd  and  of  other,  smaller, 
nationalist  societies,  Iraqi  nationalism  was  still  mainly  the  concern 
of  educated  Arabs  from  the  upper  and  the  middle  classes. 

World  War  I  and  the  British  Mandate 

By  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century,  the  Ottoman  territo- 
ries had  become  the  focus  of  European  power  politics.  During  the 
previous  century,  enfeebled  Ottoman  rule  had  invited  intense  com- 
petition among  European  powers  for  commercial  benefits  and  for 
spheres  of  influence.  British  interest  in  Iraq  significantly  increased 
when  the  Ottomans  granted  concessions  to  Germany  to  construct 
railroad  lines  from  Konya  in  southwest  Turkey  to  Baghdad  in  1899 
and  from  Baghdad  to  Basra  in  1902.  The  British  feared  that  a  hostile 
German  presence  in  the  Fertile  Crescent  would  threaten  vital  lines 
of  communication  to  India  via  Iran  and  Afghanistan,  menacing 
British  oil  interests  in  Iran  and  perhaps  even  India  itself. 

In  1914  when  the  British  discovered  that  Turkey  was  entering 
the  war  on  the  side  of  the  Germans,  British  forces  from  India  landed 
at  Al  Faw  on  the  Shatt  al  Arab  and  moved  rapidly  toward  Basra. 
By  the  fall  of  1915,  when  British  forces  were  already  well  estab- 
lished in  towns  in  the  south,  General  Charles  Townshend  unsuc- 
cessfully attempted  to  take  Baghdad.  In  retaliation,  the  Turks 
besieged  the  British  garrison  at  Al  Kut  for  140  days;  in  April  1916, 
the  garrison  was  forced  to  surrender  unconditionally.  The  British 
quickly  regrouped  their  forces,  however,  and  resumed  their  advance 
under  General  Stanley  Maude  in  December  1916.  By  March  1917 
the  British  had  captured  Baghdad.  Advancing  northward  in  the 
spring  of  1918,  the  British  finally  took  Mosul  in  early  November. 
As  a  result  of  the  victory  at  Mosul,  British  authority  was  extended 
to  all  the  Iraqi  wilayat  (sing.,  wilayah-province)  with  the  exception 
of  the  Kurdish  highlands  bordering  Turkey  and  Iran,  the  land 
alongside  the  Euphrates  from  Baghdad  south  to  An  Nasiriyah,  and 
the  Shia  cities  of  Karbala  and  An  Najaf. 

On  capturing  Baghdad,  General  Maude  proclaimed  that  Brit- 
ain intended  to  return  to  Iraq  some  control  of  its  own  affairs.  He 


31 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

stressed  that  this  step  would  pave  the  way  for  ending  the  alien  rule 
that  the  Iraqis  had  experienced  since  the  latter  days  of  the  Abbasid 
caliphate.  The  proclamation  was  in  accordance  with  the  encourage- 
ment the  British  had  given  to  Arab  nationalists,  such  as  Jafar  al 
Askari;  his  brother-in-law,  Nuri  as  Said;  and  Jamil  al  Midfai,  who 
sought  emancipation  from  Ottoman  rule.  The  nationalists  had  sup- 
ported the  Allied  powers  in  expectation  of  both  the  Ottoman  defeat 
and  the  freedom  many  nationalists  assumed  would  come  with  an 
Allied  victory. 

During  the  war,  events  in  Iraq  were  greatly  influenced  by  the 
Hashimite  family  of  Husayn  ibn  Ali,  sharif  of  Mecca,  who  claimed 
descent  from  the  family  of  the  Prophet  Muhammad.  Aspiring  to 
become  king  of  an  independent  Arab  kingdom,  Husayn  had  broken 
with  the  Ottomans,  to  whom  he  had  been  vassal,  and  had  thrown 
in  his  lot  with  the  British.  Anxious  for  his  support,  the  British  gave 
Husayn  reason  to  believe  that  he  would  have  their  endorsement 
when  the  war  ended.  Accordingly,  Husayn  and  his  sons  led  the 
June  1916  Arab  Revolt,  marching  northward  in  conjunction  with 
the  British  into  Transjordan,  Palestine,  and  Syria. 

Anticipating  the  fulfillment  of  Allied  pledges,  Husayn' s  son, 
Prince  Faisal  (who  was  later  to  become  modern  Iraq's  first  king), 
arrived  in  Paris  in  1919  as  the  chief  spokesman  for  the  Arab  cause. 
Much  to  his  disappointment,  Faisal  found  that  the  Allied  powers 
were  less  than  enthusiastic  about  Arab  independence. 

At  the  1919  Paris  Peace  Conference,  under  Article  22  of  the 
League  of  Nations  Covenant,  Iraq  was  formally  made  a  Class  A 
mandate  entrusted  to  Britain.  This  award  was  completed  on 
April  25,  1920,  at  the  San  Remo  Conference  in  Italy.  Palestine 
also  was  placed  under  British  mandate,  and  Syria  was  placed  under 
French  mandate.  Faisal,  who  had  been  proclaimed  king  of  Syria 
by  a  Syrian  national  congress  in  Damascus  in  March  1920,  was 
ejected  by  the  French  in  July  of  the  same  year. 

The  civil  government  of  postwar  Iraq  was  headed  originally  by 
the  high  commissioner,  Sir  Percy  Cox,  and  his  deputy,  Colonel 
Arnold  Talbot  Wilson.  The  British  were  confronted  with  Iraq's 
age-old  problems,  compounded  by  some  new  ones.  Villagers 
demanded  that  the  tribes  be  restrained,  and  tribes  demanded  that 
their  titles  to  tribal  territories  be  extended  and  confirmed.  Mer- 
chants demanded  more  effective  legal  procedures,  courts,  and  laws 
to  protect  their  activities  and  interests.  Municipal  authorities 
appealed  for  defined  powers  and  grants-in-aid  in  addition  to  the 
establishment  of  public  health  and  education  facilities.  Landlords 
pressed  for  grants  of  land,  for  the  building  of  canals  and  roads, 
and  for  the  provision  of  tested  seeds  and  livestock. 


32 


Entrance  to  the  ruins  of  Babylon 
Courtesy  Ronald  L.  Kuipers 

The  holy  cities  of  An  Najaf  and  Karbala  and  their  satellite  tribes 
were  in  a  state  of  near  anarchy.  British  reprisals  after  the  murder 
of  a  British  officer  in  An  Najaf  failed  to  restore  order.  The  Anayzah, 
the  Shammar,  and  the  Jubur  tribes  of  the  western  desert  were  beset 
by  violent  infighting.  British  administration  had  yet  to  be  estab- 
lished in  the  mountains  of  Kurdistan.  Meanwhile,  from  the  Hak- 
kari  Mountains  beyond  Iraq's  northern  frontier  and  from  the  plains 
of  Urmia  in  Iran,  thousands  of  Assyrians  began  to  pour  into  Iraqi 
territory  seeking  refuge  from  Turkish  savagery.  The  most  strik- 
ing problem  facing  the  British  was  the  growing  anger  of  the 
nationalists,  who  felt  betrayed  at  being  accorded  mandate  status. 
The  nationalists  soon  came  to  view  the  mandate  as  a  flimsy  dis- 
guise for  colonialism.  The  experienced  Cox  delegated  governance 
of  the  country  to  Wilson  while  he  served  in  Persia  between  April 
1918  and  October  1920.  The  younger  man  governed  Iraq  with  the 
kind  of  paternalism  that  had  characterized  British  rule  in  India. 
Impatient  to  establish  an  efficient  administration,  Wilson  used 
experienced  Indians  to  staff  subordinate  positions  within  his  admin- 
istration. The  exclusion  of  Iraqis  from  administrative  posts  added 
humiliation  to  Iraqi  discontent. 

Three  important  anticolonial  secret  societies  had  been  formed 
in  Iraq  during  1918  and  1919.  At  An  Najaf,  Jamiyat  an  Nahda 
al  Islamiya  (The  League  of  the  Islamic  Awakening)  was  organized; 


33 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


its  numerous  and  varied  members  included  ulama  (religious  lead- 
ers), journalists,  landlords,  and  tribal  leaders.  Members  of  the 
Jamiyat  assassinated  a  British  officer  in  the  hope  that  the  killing 
would  act  as  a  catalyst  for  a  general  rebellion  at  Iraq's  other  holy 
city,  Karbala.  Al  Jamiya  al  Wataniya  al  Islamiya  (The  Muslim 
National  League)  was  formed  with  the  object  of  organizing  and 
mobilizing  the  population  for  major  resistance.  In  February  1919, 
in  Baghdad,  a  coalition  of  Shia  merchants,  Sunni  teachers  and  civil 
servants,  Sunni  and  Shia  ulama,  and  Iraqi  officers  formed  the  Haras 
al  Istiqlal  (The  Guardians  of  Independence).  The  Istiqlal  had  mem- 
ber groups  in  Karbala,  An  Najaf,  Al  Kut,  and  Al  Hillah. 

Local  outbreaks  against  British  rule  had  occurred  even  before 
the  news  reached  Iraq  that  the  country  had  been  given  only  man- 
date status.  Upon  the  death  of  an  important  Shia  mujtahid  (reli- 
gious scholar)  in  early  May  1920,  Sunni  and  Shia  ulama  temporarily 
put  aside  their  differences  as  the  memorial  services  metamorphosed 
into  political  rallies.  Ramadan,  the  Islamic  month  of  fasting,  began 
later  in  that  month;  once  again,  through  nationalistic  poetry  and 
oratory,  religious  leaders  exhorted  the  people  to  throw  off  the  bonds 
of  imperialism.  Violent  demonstrations  and  strikes  followed  the  Brit- 
ish arrest  of  several  leaders. 

When  the  news  of  the  mandate  reached  Iraq  in  late  May,  a  group 
of  Iraqi  delegates  met  with  Wilson  and  demanded  independence. 
Wilson  dismissed  them  as  a  "handful  of  ungrateful  politicians." 
Nationalist  political  activity  was  stepped  up,  and  the  grand  mujta- 
hid of  Karbala,  Imam  Shirazi,  and  his  son,  Mirza  Muhammad 
Riza,  began  to  organize  the  effort  in  earnest.  Arab  flags  were  made 
and  distributed,  and  pamphlets  were  handed  out  urging  the  tribes 
to  prepare  for  revolt.  Muhammad  Riza  acted  as  liaison  among 
insurgents  in  An  Najaf  and  in  Karbala,  and  the  tribal  confedera- 
tions. Shirazi  then  issued  a  Jatwa  (religious  ruling),  pointing  out 
that  it  was  against  Islamic  law  for  Muslims  to  countenance  being 
ruled  by  non-Muslims,  and  he  called  for  a  jihad  against  the  British. 

By  July  1920,  Mosul  was  in  rebellion  against  British  rule,  and 
the  insurrection  moved  south  down  the  Euphrates  River  valley. 
The  southern  tribes,  who  cherished  their  long-held  political  auton- 
omy, needed  little  inducement  to  join  in  the  fray.  They  did  not 
cooperate  in  an  organized  effort  against  the  British,  however,  which 
limited  the  effect  of  the  revolt.  The  country  was  in  a  state  of  anar- 
chy for  three  months;  the  British  restored  order  only  with  great 
difficulty  and  with  the  assistance  of  Royal  Air  Force  bombers.  Brit- 
ish forces  were  obliged  to  send  for  reinforcements  from  India  and 
from  Iran. 


34 


Historical  Setting 


Ath  Thawra  al  Iraqiyya  al  Kubra,  or  The  Great  Iraqi  Revolu- 
tion (as  the  1920  rebellion  is  called),  was  a  watershed  event  in  con- 
temporary Iraqi  history.  For  the  first  time,  Sunnis  and  Shias,  tribes 
and  cities,  were  brought  together  in  a  common  effort.  In  the  opin- 
ion of  Hanna  Batatu,  author  of  a  seminal  work  on  Iraq,  the  build- 
ing of  a  nation-state  in  Iraq  depended  upon  two  major  factors:  the 
integration  of  Shias  and  Sunnis  into  the  new  body  politic  and  the 
successful  resolution  of  the  age-old  conflicts  between  the  tribes  and 
the  riverine  cities  and  among  the  tribes  themselves  over  the  food- 
producing  flatlands  of  the  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates.  The  1920 
rebellion  brought  these  groups  together,  if  only  briefly;  this  con- 
stituted an  important  first  step  in  the  long  and  arduous  process 
of  forging  a  nation-state  out  of  Iraq's  conflict-ridden  social  structure. 

The  1920  revolt  had  been  very  costly  to  the  British  in  both  man- 
power and  money.  Whitehall  was  under  domestic  pressure  to  devise 
a  formula  that  would  provide  the  maximum  control  over  Iraq  at 
the  least  cost  to  the  British  taxpayer.  The  British  replaced  the  mili- 
tary regime  with  a  provisional  Arab  government,  assisted  by  Brit- 
ish advisers  and  answerable  to  the  supreme  authority  of  the  high 
commissioner  for  Iraq,  Cox.  The  new  administration  provided  a 
channel  of  communication  between  the  British  and  the  restive  popu- 
lation, and  it  gave  Iraqi  leaders  an  opportunity  to  prepare  for  even- 
tual self-government.  The  provisional  government  was  aided  by 
the  large  number  of  trained  Iraqi  administrators  who  returned  home 
when  the  French  ejected  Faisal  from  Syria.  Like  earlier  Iraqi 
governments,  however,  the  provisional  government  was  composed 
chiefly  of  Sunni  Arabs;  once  again  the  Shias  were  underrepresented. 

At  the  Cairo  Conference  of  1921,  the  British  set  the  parameters 
for  Iraqi  political  life  that  were  to  continue  until  the  1958  revolu- 
tion; they  chose  Faisal  as  Iraq's  first  King;  they  established  an 
indigenous  Iraqi  army;  and  they  proposed  a  new  treaty.  To  con- 
firm Faisal  as  Iraq's  first  monarch,  a  one-question  plebiscite  was 
carefully  arranged  that  had  a  return  of  96  percent  in  his  favor.  The 
British  saw  in  Faisal  a  leader  who  possessed  sufficient  nationalist 
and  Islamic  credentials  to  have  broad  appeal,  but  who  also  was 
vulnerable  enough  to  remain  dependent  on  their  support.  Faisal 
traced  his  descent  from  the  family  of  the  Prophet  Muhammad,  and 
his  ancestors  had  held  political  authority  in  the  holy  cities  of  Mecca 
and  Medina  since  the  tenth  century.  The  British  believed  that  these 
credentials  would  satisfy  traditional  Arab  standards  of  political 
legitimacy;  moreover,  the  British  thought  that  Faisal  would  be 
accepted  by  the  growing  Iraqi  nationalist  movement  because  of  his 
role  in  the  1916  revolt  against  the  Turks,  his  achievements  as  a 


35 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

leader  of  the  Arab  emancipation  movement,  and  his  general  leader- 
ship qualities. 

As  a  counterforce  to  the  nationalistic  inclinations  of  the  monar- 
chy and  as  a  means  of  insuring  the  king's  dependence,  the  British 
cultivated  the  tribal  shaykhs,  whose  power  had  been  waning  since 
the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century.  While  the  new  king  sought  to 
create  a  national  consciousness,  to  strengthen  the  institutions  of 
the  emerging  state,  and  especially  to  create  a  national  military,  the 
tribal  shaykhs  supported  a  fragmented  community  and  sought  to 
weaken  the  coercive  power  of  the  state.  A  major  goal  of  the  British 
policy  was  to  keep  the  monarchy  stronger  than  any  one  tribe  but 
weaker  than  a  coalition  of  tribes  so  that  British  power  would  ulti- 
mately be  decisive  in  arbitrating  disputes  between  the  two. 

Ultimately,  the  British-created  monarchy  suffered  from  a  chronic 
legitimacy  crisis:  the  concept  of  a  monarchy  was  alien  to  Iraq. 
Despite  his  Islamic  and  pan- Arab  credentials,  Faisal  was  not  an 
Iraqi,  and,  no  matter  how  effectively  he  ruled,  Iraqis  saw  the  monar- 
chy as  a  British  creation.  The  continuing  inability  of  the  govern- 
ment to  gain  the  confidence  of  the  people  fueled  political  instability 
well  into  the  1970s. 

The  British  decision  at  the  Cairo  Conference  to  establish  an 
indigenous  Iraqi  army  was  significant.  In  Iraq,  as  in  most  of  the 
developing  world,  the  military  establishment  has  been  the  best 
organized  institution  in  an  otherwise  weak  political  system.  Thus, 
while  Iraq's  body  politic  crumbled  under  immense  political  and 
economic  pressure  throughout  the  monarchic  period,  the  military 
gained  increasing  power  and  influence;  moreover,  because  the 
officers  in  the  new  army  were  by  necessity  Sunnis  who  had  served 
under  the  Ottomans,  while  the  lower  ranks  were  predominantly 
filled  by  Shia  tribal  elements,  Sunni  dominance  in  the  military  was 
preserved. 

The  final  major  decision  taken  at  the  Cairo  Conference  related 
to  the  new  Anglo-Iraqi  Treaty.  Faisal  was  under  pressure  from  the 
nationalists  and  the  anti-British  mujtahids  of  An  Najaf  and  Karbala 
to  limit  both  British  influence  in  Iraq  and  the  duration  of  the  treaty. 
Recognizing  that  the  monarchy  depended  on  British  support — 
and  wishing  to  avoid  a  repetition  of  his  experience  in  Syria — Faisal 
maintained  a  moderate  approach  in  dealing  with  Britain.  The 
twenty-year  treaty,  which  was  ratified  in  October  1922,  stated  that 
the  king  would  heed  British  advice  on  all  matters  affecting  British 
interests  and  on  fiscal  policy  as  long  as  Iraq  was  in  debt  to  Britain, 
and  that  British  officials  would  be  appointed  to  specified  posts  in 
eighteen  departments  to  act  as  advisers  and  inspectors.  A  subsequent 
financial  agreement,  which  significantly  increased  the  financial 


36 


Historical  Setting 


burden  on  Iraq,  required  Iraq  to  pay  half  the  cost  of  supporting 
British  resident  officials,  among  other  expenses.  British  obligations 
under  the  new  treaty  included  providing  various  kinds  of  aid,  nota- 
bly military  assistance,  and  proposing  Iraq  for  membership  in  the 
League  of  Nations  at  the  earliest  moment.  In  effect,  the  treaty 
ensured  that  Iraq  would  remain  politically  and  economically 
dependent  on  Britain.  While  unable  to  prevent  the  treaty,  Faisal 
clearly  felt  that  the  British  had  gone  back  on  their  promises  to  him. 

After  the  treaty  had  been  signed,  Iraq  readied  itself  for  the 
country-wide  elections  that  had  been  provided  for  in  the  May  1922 
Electoral  Law.  There  were  important  changes  in  the  government 
at  this  time.  Cox  resigned  his  position  as  high  commissioner  and 
was  replaced  by  Sir  Henry  Dobbs;  Iraq's  aging  prime  minister, 
Abd  ar  Rahman  al  Gailani,  stepped  down  and  was  replaced  by 
Abd  al  Muhsin  as  Saadun.  In  April  1923,  Saadun  signed  a  pro- 
tocol that  shortened  the  treaty  period  to  four  years.  As  a  result  of 
the  elections,  however,  Saadun  was  replaced  by  Jafar  al  Askari, 
a  veteran  of  the  Arab  Revolt  and  an  early  supporter  of  Faisal. 

The  elected  Constituent  Assembly  met  for  the  first  time  in  March 
1924,  and  it  formally  ratified  the  treaty  despite  strong  (and  some- 
times physical)  opposition  on  the  part  of  many  in  the  assembly. 
The  assembly  also  accepted  the  Organic  Law  that  declared  Iraq 
to  be  a  sovereign  state  with  a  representative  system  of  government 
and  a  hereditary  constitutional  monarchy.  The  newly  ratified  consti- 
tution— which,  along  with  the  treaty,  had  been  hotly  debated — 
legislated  an  important  British  role  in  Iraqi  affairs.  The  major  issue 
at  stake  in  the  constitutional  debate  revolved  around  the  powers 
of  the  monarchy.  In  the  final  draft,  British  interests  prevailed,  and 
the  monarchy  was  granted  wide-ranging  powers  that  included  the 
right  to  confirm  all  laws,  to  call  for  a  general  election,  to  prorogue 
parliament,  and  to  issue  ordinances  for  the  fulfillment  of  treaty 
obligations  without  parliamentary  sanctions.  Like  the  treaty,  the 
constitution  provided  the  British  with  a  means  of  indirect  control 
in  Iraq. 

After  the  Anglo-Iraqi  Treaty  was  ratified,  the  most  pressing  issue 
confronting  the  newly  established  constitutional  monarchy  was  the 
question  of  boundaries,  especially  in  the  former  Ottoman  wilayah 
of  Mosul,  now  known  as  Mosul  Province.  The  status  of  Mosul 
Province  was  complicated  by  two  factors,  the  British  desire  to  gain 
oil  concessions  and  the  existence  of  a  majority  Kurdish  popula- 
tion that  was  seeking  independence  apart  from  either  Iraq  or  Tur- 
key. According  to  the  Treaty  of  Sevres,  concluded  in  1920  with 
the  Ottoman  sultan,  Mosul  was  to  be  part  of  an  autonomous  Kurd- 
ish state.  The  treaty  was  scrapped,  however,  when  nationalist 


37 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

leader  Mustafa  Kamal  (1881-1938 — also  known  as  Ataturk)  came 
to  power  in  Turkey  and  established  control  over  the  Kurdish  areas 
in  eastern  Turkey.  In  1923,  after  two  failed  British  attempts  to  estab- 
lish an  autonomous  Kurdish  province,  London  decided  to  include 
the  Kurds  in  the  new  Iraqi  state  with  the  proviso  that  Kurds  would 
hold  government  positions  in  Kurdish  areas  and  that  the  Kurdish 
language  would  be  preserved.  The  British  decision  to  include  Mosul 
in  Iraq  was  based  largely  on  their  belief  that  the  area  contained 
large  oil  deposits. 

Before  the  collapse  of  the  Ottoman  Empire,  the  British-controlled 
Turkish  Petroleum  Company  (TPC)  had  held  concessionary  rights 
to  the  Mosul  wilayah.  Under  the  1916  Sykes-Picot  Agreement — 
an  agreement  in  1916  between  Britain  and  France  that  delineated 
future  control  of  the  Middle  East — the  area  would  have  fallen  under 
French  influence.  In  1919,  however,  the  French  relinquished  their 
claims  to  Mosul  under  the  terms  of  the  Long-Berenger  Agreement. 
The  1919  agreement  granted  the  French  a  25  percent  share  in  the 
TPC  as  compensation. 

Beginning  in  1923,  British  and  Iraqi  negotiators  held  acrimoni- 
ous discussions  over  the  new  oil  concession.  The  major  obstacle 
was  Iraq's  insistence  on  a  20-percent  equity  participation  in  the 
company;  this  figure  had  been  included  in  the  original  TPC  con- 
cession to  the  Turks  and  had  been  agreed  upon  at  San  Remo  for 
the  Iraqis.  In  the  end,  despite  strong  nationalist  sentiments  against 
the  concession  agreement,  the  Iraqi  negotiators  acquiesced  to  it. 
The  League  of  Nations  was  soon  to  vote  on  the  disposition  of  Mosul, 
and  the  Iraqis  feared  that,  without  British  support,  Iraq  would  lose 
the  area  to  Turkey.  In  March  1925,  an  agreement  was  concluded 
that  contained  none  of  the  Iraqi  demands.  The  TPC,  now  renamed 
the  Iraq  Petroleum  Company  (IPC),  was  granted  a  concession  for 
a  period  of  seventy-five  years. 

In  1925  the  League  of  Nations  decided  that  Mosul  Province 
would  be  considered  a  part  of  Iraq,  but  it  also  suggested  that  the 
Anglo-Iraqi  Treaty  be  extended  from  four  to  twenty-five  years  as 
a  protection  for  the  Kurdish  minority,  who  intensely  distrusted  the 
Iraqi  government.  The  Iraqis  also  were  to  give  due  regard  to  Kurd- 
ish sensibilities  in  matters  of  culture  and  of  language.  Although 
reluctant  to  do  so,  the  Iraqi  assembly  ratified  the  treaty  in  Janu- 
ary 1926.  Turkey  was  eventually  reconciled  to  the  loss  by  being 
promised  one-tenth  of  any  oil  revenues  that  might  accrue  in  the 
area,  and  a  tripartite  Anglo-Turco-Iraqi  treaty  was  signed  in  July 
1926.  This  settlement  was  to  have  important  repercussions,  both 
positive  and  negative,  for  the  future  of  Iraq.  Vast  oil  revenues  would 
accrue  from  the  Mosul  Province,  but  the  inclusion  of  a  large  number 


38 


Historical  Setting 


of  well-armed  and  restless  Kurds  in  Iraqi  territory  would  continue 
to  plague  Iraqi  governments. 

With  the  signing  of  the  Anglo-Iraqi  Treaty  and  the  settling  of 
the  Mosul  question,  Iraqi  politics  took  on  a  new  dynamic.  The 
emerging  class  of  Sunni  and  Shia  landowning  tribal  shaykhs  vied 
for  positions  of  power  with  wealthy  and  prestigious  urban-based 
Sunni  families  and  with  Ottoman-trained  army  officers  and  bureau- 
crats. Because  Iraq's  newly  established  political  institutions  were 
the  creation  of  a  foreign  power,  and  because  the  concept  of 
democratic  government  had  no  precedent  in  Iraqi  history,  the  poli- 
ticians in  Baghdad  lacked  legitimacy  and  never  developed  deeply 
rooted  constituencies.  Thus,  despite  a  constitution  and  an  elected 
assembly,  Iraqi  politics  was  more  a  shifting  alliance  of  important 
personalities  and  cliques  than  a  democracy  in  the  Western  sense. 
The  absence  of  broadly  based  political  institutions  inhibited  the 
early  nationalist  movement's  ability  to  make  deep  inroads  into 
Iraq's  diverse  social  structure.  Thus,  despite  the  widely  felt  resent- 
ment at  Iraq's  mandate  status,  the  burgeoning  nationalist  move- 
ment was  largely  ineffective. 

Nonetheless,  through  the  late  1920s,  the  nationalists  persisted 
in  opposing  the  Anglo-Iraqi  Treaty  and  in  demanding  indepen- 
dence. A  treaty  more  favorable  to  the  Iraqis  was  presented  in 
December  1927.  It  remained  unratified,  however,  because  of 
nationalist  demands  for  an  unconditional  promise  of  independence. 
This  promise  eventually  was  made  by  the  new  high  commissioner, 
Sir  Gilbert  Clayton,  in  1929,  but  the  confusion  occasioned  by  the 
sudden  death  of  Clayton  and  by  the  suicide  of  Abd  al  Muhsin  as 
Saadun,  the  most  powerful  Iraqi  advocate  of  the  treaty,  delayed 
the  writing  of  a  new  treaty.  In  June  1929,  the  nationalists  received 
their  first  positive  response  from  London  when  a  newly  elected 
Labour  Party  government  announced  its  intention  to  support  Iraq's 
admission  to  the  League  of  Nations  in  1932  and  to  negotiate  a  new 
treaty  recognizing  Iraq's  independence. 

Faisal's  closest  adviser  (and  soon-to-be  Iraqi  strongman),  Nuri 
as  Said,  carried  out  the  treaty  negotiations.  Despite  widespread 
opposition,  Nuri  as  Said  was  able  to  force  the  treaty  through  parlia- 
ment. The  new  Anglo-Iraqi  Treaty  was  signed  in  June  1930.  It 
provided  for  a  ''close  alliance,"  for  "full  and  frank  consultations 
between  the  two  countries  in  all  matters  of  foreign  policy,"  and 
for  mutual  assistance  in  case  of  war.  Iraq  granted  the  British  the 
use  of  air  bases  near  Basra  and  at  Al  Habbaniyah  and  the  right 
to  move  troops  across  the  country.  The  treaty,  of  twenty-five  years' 
duration,  was  to  come  into  force  upon  Iraq's  admission  to  the 
League  of  Nations.  The  terms  of  the  treaty  gained  Nuri  as  Said 


39 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

favor  in  British  eyes  but  discredited  him  in  the  eyes  of  the  Iraqi 
nationalists,  who  vehemently  opposed  its  lengthy  duration  and  the 
leasing  of  air  bases.  The  Kurds  and  the  Assyrians  also  opposed 
the  treaty  because  it  offered  no  guarantees  for  their  status  in  the 
new  country. 

Iraq  as  an  Independent  Monarchy 

On  October  13,  1932,  Iraq  became  a  sovereign  state,  and  it  was 
admitted  to  the  League  of  Nations.  Iraq  still  was  beset  by  a  com- 
plex web  of  social,  economic,  ethnic,  religious,  and  ideological  con- 
flicts, all  of  which  retarded  the  process  of  state  formation.  The 
declaration  of  statehood  and  the  imposition  of  fixed  boundaries  trig- 
gered an  intense  competition  for  power  in  the  new  entity.  Sunnis 
and  Shias,  cities  and  tribes,  shaykhs  and  tribesmen,  Assyrians  and 
Kurds,  pan-Arabists  and  Iraqi  nationalists — all  fought  vigorously 
for  places  in  the  emerging  state  structure.  Ultimately,  lacking 
legitimacy  and  unable  to  establish  deep  roots,  the  British-imposed 
political  system  was  overwhelmed  by  these  conflicting  demands. 

The  Sunni-Shia  conflict,  a  problem  since  the  beginning  of  domi- 
nation by  the  Umayyad  caliphate  in  661,  continued  to  frustrate 
attempts  to  mold  Iraq  into  a  political  community.  The  Shia  tribes 
of  the  southern  Euphrates,  along  with  urban  Shias,  feared  complete 
Sunni  domination  in  the  government.  Their  concern  was  well 
founded;  a  disproportionate  number  of  Sunnis  occupied  administra- 
tive positions.  Favored  by  the  Ottomans,  the  Sunnis  historically  had 
gained  much  more  administrative  experience.  The  Shias'  depressed 
economic  situation  further  widened  the  Sunni-Shia  split,  and  it  inten- 
sified Shia  efforts  to  obtain  a  greater  share  of  the  new  state's  budget. 

The  arbitrary  borders  that  divided  Iraq  and  the  other  Arab  lands 
of  the  old  Ottoman  Empire  caused  severe  economic  dislocations, 
frequent  border  disputes,  and  a  debilitating  ideological  conflict. 
The  cities  of  Mosul  in  the  north  and  Basra  in  the  south,  separated 
from  their  traditional  trading  partners  in  Syria  and  in  Iran,  suffered 
severe  commercial  dislocations  that  led  to  economic  depression. 
In  the  south,  the  British-created  border  (drawn  through  the  desert 
on  the  understanding  that  the  region  was  largely  uninhabited) 
impeded  migration  patterns  and  led  to  great  tribal  unrest.  Also  in 
the  south,  uncertainty  surrounding  Iraq's  new  borders  with  Kuwait, 
with  Saudi  Arabia,  and  especially  with  Iran  led  to  frequent  border 
skirmishes.  The  new  boundaries  also  contributed  to  the  growth  of 
competing  nationalisms;  Iraqi  versus  pan- Arab  loyalties  would 
severely  strain  Iraqi  politics  during  the  1950s  and  the  1960s,  when 
Egyptian  leader  Gamal  Abdul  Nasser  held  emotional  sway  over 
the  Iraqi  masses. 


40 


Historical  Setting 


Ethnic  groups  such  as  the  Kurds  and  the  Assyrians,  who  had 
hoped  for  their  own  autonomous  states,  rebelled  against  inclusion 
within  the  Iraqi  state.  The  Kurds,  the  majority  of  whom  lived  in 
the  area  around  Mosul,  had  long  been  noted  for  their  fierce  spirit 
of  independence  and  separatism.  During  the  1922  to  1924  period, 
the  Kurds  had  engaged  in  a  series  of  revolts  in  response  to  British 
encroachment  in  areas  of  traditional  Kurdish  autonomy;  moreover, 
the  Kurds  preferred  Turkish  to  Arab  rule.  When  the  League  of 
Nations  awarded  Mosul  to  Iraq  in  1925,  Kurdish  hostility  thus 
increased.  The  Iraqi  government  maintained  an  uneasy  peace  with 
the  Kurds  in  the  first  year  of  independence,  but  Kurdish  hostility 
would  remain  an  intractable  problem  for  future  governments. 

From  the  start,  the  relationship  of  the  Iraqi  government  with 
the  Assyrians  was  openly  hostile.  Britain  had  resettled  20,000 
Assyrians  in  northern  Iraq  around  Zakhu  and  Dahuk  after  Tur- 
key violently  quelled  a  British-inspired  Assyrian  rebellion  in  1918. 
As  a  result,  approximately  three-fourths  of  the  Assyrians  who  had 
sided  with  the  British  during  World  War  I  now  found  themselves 
citizens  of  Iraq.  The  Assyrians  found  this  situation  both  objection- 
able and  dangerous.  Thousands  of  Assyrians  had  been  incorpo- 
rated into  the  Iraq  Levies,  a  British-paid  and  British-officered  force 
separate  from  the  regular  Iraqi  army.  They  had  been  encouraged 
by  the  British  to  consider  themselves  superior  to  the  majority  of 
Arab  Iraqis  by  virtue  of  their  profession  of  Christianity.  The  Brit- 
ish also  had  used  them  for  retaliatory  operations  against  the  Kurds, 
in  whose  lands  most  of  the  Assyrians  had  settled.  Pro-British,  they 
had  been  apprehensive  of  Iraqi  independence. 

The  Assyrians  had  hoped  to  form  a  nation-state  in  a  region  of 
their  own.  When  no  unoccupied  area  sufficiently  large  could  be 
found,  the  Assyrians  continued  to  insist  that,  at  the  very  least,  their 
patriarch,  the  Mar  Shamun,  be  given  some  temporal  authority. 
This  demand  was  flady  refused  by  both  the  British  and  the  Iraqis. 
In  response,  the  Assyrians,  who  had  been  permitted  by  the  British 
to  retain  their  weapons  after  the  dissolution  of  the  Iraq  Levies, 
flaunted  their  strength  and  refused  to  recognize  the  government. 
In  retaliation  the  Iraqi  authorities  held  the  Mar  Shamun  under 
virtual  house  arrest  in  mid- 1933,  making  his  release  contingent  on 
his  signing  a  document  renouncing  forever  any  claims  to  temporal 
authority.  During  July  about  800  armed  Assyrians  headed  for  the 
Syrian  border.  For  reasons  that  have  never  been  explained,  they 
were  repelled  by  the  Syrians.  During  this  time,  King  Faisal  was 
outside  the  country  for  reasons  of  health.  According  to  scholarly 
sources,  Minister  of  Interior  Hikmat  Sulayman  had  adopted  a  policy 
aimed  at  the  elimination  of  the  Assyrians.  This  policy  apparently 


41 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

was  implemented  by  a  Kurd,  General  Bakr  Sidqi,  who,  after  engag- 
ing in  several  clashes  with  the  Assyrians,  permitted  his  men  to  kill 
about  300  Assyrians,  including  women  and  children,  at  the  Assyrian 
village  of  Simel  (Sumayyil). 

The  Assyrian  affair  marked  the  military's  entrance  into  Iraqi 
politics,  setting  a  precedent  that  would  be  followed  throughout  the 
1950s  and  the  1960s.  It  also  paved  the  way  for  the  passage  of  a 
conscription  law  that  strengthened  the  army  and,  as  increasing  num- 
bers of  tribesmen  were  brought  into  military  service,  sapped  strength 
from  the  tribal  shaykhs.  The  Assyrian  affair  also  set  the  stage  for 
the  increased  prominence  of  Bakr  Sidqi. 

At  the  time  of  independence,  tribal  Iraq  was  experiencing  a 
destabilizing  realignment  characterized  by  the  waning  role  of  the 
shaykhs  in  tribal  society.  The  privatization  of  property  rights,  begun 
with  the  tanzimat  reforms  in  the  late  1860s,  intensified  when  the 
British-supported  Lazmah  land  reform  of  1932  dispossessed  even 
greater  numbers  of  tribesmen.  While  the  British  were  augment- 
ing the  economic  power  of  the  shaykhs,  however,  the  tribal-urban 
balance  was  rapidly  shifting  in  favor  of  the  cities.  The  accelerated 
pace  of  modernization  and  the  growth  of  a  highly  nationalistic  intel- 
ligentsia, of  a  bureaucracy,  and  of  a  powerful  military,  all  favored 
the  cities.  Thus,  while  the  economic  position  of  the  shaykhs  had 
improved  significantly,  their  role  in  tribal  society  and  their  status 
in  relation  to  the  rapidly  emerging  urban  elite  had  seriously  eroded. 
These  contradictory  trends  in  tribal  structure  and  authority  pushed 
tribal  Iraq  into  a  major  social  revolution  that  would  last  for  the 
next  thirty  years. 

The  ascendancy  of  the  cities  and  the  waning  power  of  the  tribes 
were  most  evident  in  the  ease  with  which  the  military,  led  by  Bakr 
Sidqi,  put  down  tribal  unrest.  The  tribal  revolts  themselves  were 
set  off  by  the  government's  decision  in  1934  to  allocate  money  for 
the  new  conscription  plan  rather  than  for  a  new  dam,  which  would 
have  improved  agricultural  productivity  in  the  south. 

The  monarchy's  ability  to  deal  with  tribal  unrest  suffered  a  major 
setback  in  September  1933,  when  King  Faisal  died  while  under- 
going medical  treatment  in  Switzerland.  Faisal's  death  meant  the 
loss  of  the  main  stabilizing  personality  in  Iraqi  politics.  He  was 
the  one  figure  with  sufficient  prestige  to  draw  the  politicians  together 
around  a  concept  of  national  interest.  Faisal  was  succeeded  by  his 
twenty-one-year-old  son,  Ghazi  (1933-39),  an  ardent  but  inex- 
perienced Arab  nationalist.  Unlike  his  father,  Ghazi  was  a  product 
of  Western  education  and  had  little  experience  with  the  complexi- 
ties of  Iraqi  tribal  life.  Ghazi  also  was  unable  to  balance  national- 
ist and  British  pressures  within  the  framework  of  the  Anglo-Iraqi 


42 


A  statue  of  a  lion  at  Babylon 
Courtesy  Ronald  L.  Kuipers 
Bas  relief,  Babylon 
Courtesy  Ronald  L.  Kuipers 


43 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

alliance;  increasingly,  the  nationalist  movement  saw  the  monar- 
chy as  a  British  puppet.  Iraqi  politics  during  Ghazi's  reign  degener- 
ated into  a  meaningless  competition  among  narrowly  based  tribal 
shaykhs  and  urban  notables  that  further  eroded  the  legitimacy  of 
the  state  and  its  constitutional  structures. 

In  1936  Iraq  experienced  its  first  military  coup  d'etat — the  first 
coup  d'etat  in  the  modern  Arab  world.  The  agents  of  the  coup, 
General  Bakr  Sidqi  and  two  politicians  (Hikmat  Sulayman  and  Abu 
Timman,  who  were  Turkoman  and  Shia  respectively),  represented 
a  minority  response  to  the  pan-Arab  Sunni  government  of  Yasin 
al  Hashimi.  The  eighteen-month  Hashimi  government  was  the  most 
successful  and  the  longest  lived  of  the  eight  governments  that  came 
and  went  during  the  reign  of  King  Ghazi.  Hashimi' s  government 
was  nationalistic  and  pan- Arab,  but  many  Iraqis  resented  its 
authoritarianism  and  its  suppression  of  honest  dissent.  Sulayman, 
a  reformer,  sought  to  engineer  an  alliance  of  other  reformers  and 
minority  elements  within  the  army.  The  reformers  included  com- 
munists, orthodox  and  unorthodox  socialists,  and  persons  with  more 
moderate  positions.  Most  of  the  more  moderate  reformers  were 
associated  with  the  leftist-leaning  Al  Ahali  newspaper,  from  which 
their  group  took  its  name. 

The  Sidqi  coup  marked  a  major  turning  point  in  Iraqi  history; 
it  made  a  crucial  breach  in  the  constitution,  and  it  opened  the  door 
to  further  military  involvement  in  politics.  It  also  temporarily  dis- 
placed the  elite  that  had  ruled  since  the  state  was  founded;  the  new 
government  contained  few  Arab  Sunnis  and  not  a  single  advocate 
of  a  pan- Arab  cause.  This  configuration  resulted  in  a  foreign  policy 
oriented  toward  Turkey  and  Iran  instead  of  toward  the  Arab  coun- 
tries. The  new  government  promptly  signed  an  agreement  with 
Iran,  temporarily  settling  the  question  of  boundary  between  Iraq 
and  Iran  in  the  Shatt  al  Arab.  Iran  maintained  that  it  had  agreed 
under  British  pressure  to  the  international  boundary's  being  set 
at  the  low  water  mark  on  the  Iranian  side  rather  than  the  usual 
international  practice  of  the  midpoint  or  thalweg. 

After  Bakr  Sidqi  moved  against  Baghdad,  Sulayman  formed  an 
Ahali  cabinet.  Hashimi  and  Rashid  Ali  were  banished,  and  Nuri 
as  Said  fled  to  Egypt.  In  the  course  of  the  assault  on  Baghdad,  Nuri 
as  Said's  brother-in-law,  Minister  of  Defense  Jafar  Askari,  was 
killed. 

Ghazi  sanctioned  Sulayman 's  government  even  though  it  had 
achieved  power  unconstitutionally;  nevertheless,  the  coalition  of 
forces  that  gained  power  in  1936  was  beset  by  major  contradic- 
tions. The  Ahali  group  was  interested  in  social  reform  whereas  Sidqi 
and  his  supporters  in  the  military  were  interested  in  expansion. 


44 


Historical  Setting 


Sidqi,  moreover,  alienated  important  sectors  of  the  population:  the 
nationalists  in  the  army  resented  him  because  of  his  Kurdish  back- 
ground and  because  he  encouraged  Kurds  to  join  the  army;  the 
Shias  abhorred  him  because  of  his  brutal  suppression  of  a  tribal 
revolt  the  previous  year;  and  Nuri  as  Said  sought  revenge  for  the 
murder  of  his  brother-in-law.  Eventually,  Sidqi's  excesses  alienated 
both  his  civilian  and  his  military  supporters,  and  he  was  murdered 
by  a  military  group  in  August  1937. 

In  April  1939,  Ghazi  was  killed  in  an  automobile  accident  and 
was  succeeded  by  his  infant  son,  Faisal  II.  Ghazi's  first  cousin, 
Amir  Abd  al  Ilah,  was  made  regent.  The  death  of  Ghazi  and  the 
rise  of  Prince  Abd  al  Ilah  and  Nuri  as  Said — the  latter  one  of  the 
Ottoman-trained  officers  who  had  fought  with  Sharif  Husayn  of 
Mecca — dramatically  changed  both  the  goals  and  the  role  of  the 
monarchy.  Whereas  Faisal  and  Ghazi  had  been  strong  Arab 
nationalists  and  had  opposed  the  British-supported  tribal  shaykhs, 
Abd  al  Ilah  and  Nuri  as  Said  were  Iraqi  nationalists  who  relied 
on  the  tribal  shaykhs  as  a  counterforce  against  the  growing  urban 
nationalist  movement.  By  the  end  of  the  1930s,  pan-Arabism  had 
become  a  powerful  ideological  force  in  the  Iraqi  military,  especially 
among  younger  officers  who  hailed  from  the  northern  provinces 
and  who  had  suffered  economically  from  the  partition  of  the  Otto- 
man Empire.  The  British  role  in  quelling  the  Palestine  revolt  of 
1936  to  1939  further  intensified  anti-British  sentiments  in  the  mili- 
tary and  led  a  group  of  disgruntied  officers  to  form  the  Free  Officers' 
Movement,  which  aimed  at  overthrowing  the  monarchy. 

As  World  War  II  approached,  Nazi  Germany  attempted  to 
capitalize  on  the  anti-British  sentiments  in  Iraq  and  to  woo  Bagh- 
dad to  the  Axis  cause.  In  1939  Iraq  severed  diplomatic  relations 
with  Germany — as  it  was  obliged  to  do  because  of  treaty  obliga- 
tions with  Britain.  In  1940,  however,  the  Iraqi  nationalist  and 
ardent  anglophobe  Rashid  Ali  succeeded  Nuri  as  Said  as  prime 
minister.  The  new  prime  minister  was  reluctant  to  break  completely 
with  the  Axis  powers,  and  he  proposed  restrictions  on  British  troop 
movements  in  Iraq. 

Abd  al  Ilah  and  Nuri  as  Said  both  were  proponents  of  close 
cooperation  with  Britain.  They  opposed  Rashid  Ali's  policies  and 
pressed  him  to  resign.  In  response,  Rashid  Ali  and  four  generals 
led  a  military  coup  that  ousted  Nuri  as  Said  and  the  regent,  both 
of  whom  escaped  to  Transjordan.  Shortly  after  seizing  power  in 
1941,  Rashid  Ali  appointed  an  ultranationalist  civilian  cabinet, 
which  gave  only  conditional  consent  to  British  requests  in  April 
1941  for  troop  landings  in  Iraq.  The  British  quickly  retaliated  by 
landing  forces  at  Basra,  justifying  this  second  occupation  of  Iraq 


45 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

by  citing  Rashid  Ali's  violation  of  the  Anglo-Iraqi  Treaty  of  1930. 
Many  Iraqis  regarded  the  move  as  an  attempt  to  restore  British 
rule.  They  rallied  to  the  support  of  the  Iraqi  army,  which  received 
a  number  of  aircraft  from  the  Axis  powers.  The  Germans,  however, 
were  preoccupied  with  campaigns  in  Crete  and  with  preparations 
for  the  invasion  of  the  Soviet  Union,  and  they  could  spare  little 
assistance  to  Iraq.  As  the  British  steadily  advanced,  Rashid  Ali  and 
his  government  fled  to  Egypt.  An  armistice  was  signed  on  May 
30.  Abd  al  Ilah  returned  as  regent,  and  Rashid  Ali  and  the  four 
generals  were  tried  in  absentia  and  were  sentenced  to  death.  The 
generals  returned  to  Iraq  and  were  subsequently  executed,  but 
Rashid  Ali  remained  in  exile. 

The  most  important  aspect  of  the  Rashid  Ali  coup  of  1941  was 
Britain's  use  of  Transjordan's  Arab  Legion  against  the  Iraqis  and 
their  reimposition  by  force  of  arms  of  Abd  al  Ilah  as  regent.  Noth- 
ing contributed  more  to  nationalist  sentiment  in  Iraq,  especially 
in  the  military,  than  the  British  invasion  of  1941  and  the  reimposi- 
tion of  the  monarchy.  From  then  on,  the  monarchy  was  completely 
divorced  from  the  powerful  nationalist  trend.  Widely  viewed  as  an 
anachronism  that  lacked  popular  legitimacy,  the  monarchy  was  per- 
ceived to  be  aligned  with  social  forces  that  were  retarding  the  coun- 
try 's  development. 

In  January  1943,  under  the  terms  of  the  1930  treaty  with  Brit- 
ain, Iraq  declared  war  on  the  Axis  powers.  Iraq  cooperated  com- 
pletely with  the  British  under  the  successive  governments  of  Nuri 
as  Said  (1941-44)  and  Hamdi  al  Pachachi  (1944-46).  Iraq  became 
a  base  for  the  military  occupation  of  Iran  and  of  the  Levant  (see 
Glossary).  In  March  1945,  Iraq  became  a  founding  member  of  the 
British-supported  League  of  Arab  States  (Arab  League),  which 
included  Egypt,  Transjordan,  Lebanon,  Saudi  Arabia,  Syria,  and 
Yemen.  Although  the  Arab  League  was  ostensibly  designed  to  foster 
Arab  unity,  many  Arab  nationalists  viewed  it  as  a  British-dominated 
alignment  of  pro- Western  Arab  states.  In  December  1945,  Iraq 
joined  the  United  Nations  (UN). 

World  War  II  exacerbated  Iraq's  social  and  economic  problems. 
The  spiraling  prices  and  shortages  brought  on  by  the  war  increased 
the  opportunity  for  exploitation  and  significantly  widened  the  gap 
between  rich  and  poor;  thus,  while  wealthy  landowners  were  enrich- 
ing themselves  through  corruption,  the  salaried  middle  class,  includ- 
ing teachers,  civil  servants,  and  army  officers,  saw  their  incomes 
depreciate  daily.  Even  worse  off  were  the  peasants,  who  lived  under 
the  heavy  burden  of  the  1932  land  reform  that  permitted  their  land- 
lords (shaykhs)  to  make  huge  profits  selling  cash  crops  to  the  Brit- 
ish occupying  force.  The  worsening  economic  situation  of  the  mass 


46 


Historical  Setting 


of  Iraqis  during  the  1950s  and  the  1960s  enabled  the  Iraqi  Com- 
munist Party  (ICP)  to  establish  deep  roots  during  this  period. 

In  addition  to  its  festering  socioeconomic  problems,  post- World 
War  II  Iraq  was  beset  by  a  leadership  crisis.  After  the  1941  Rashid 
Ali  coup,  Iraqi  politics  had  been  dominated  by  the  pro-British  Nuri 
as  Said.  The  latter' s  British  orientation  and  autocratic  manner 
increasingly  were  at  variance  with  the  liberal,  reformist  philosophy 
of  Iraq's  new  nationalists.  Even  before  the  end  of  the  war,  national- 
ists had  demanded  the  restoration  of  political  activity,  which  had 
been  banned  during  the  war  in  the  interest  of  national  security. 
Not  until  the  government  of  Tawfiq  Suwaidi  (February-March 
1946),  however,  were  political  parties  allowed  to  organize.  Within 
a  short  period,  six  parties  were  formed.  The  parties  soon  became 
so  outspoken  in  their  criticism  of  the  government  that  the  govern- 
ment closed  or  curtailed  the  activities  of  the  more  extreme  leftist 
parties. 

Accumulated  grievances  against  Nuri  as  Said  and  the  regent 
climaxed  in  the  1948  Wathbah  (uprising).  The  Wathbah  was  a  pro- 
test against  the  Portsmouth  Treaty  of  January  1948  and  its  provi- 
sion that  a  board  of  Iraqis  and  British  be  established  to  decide  on 
defense  matters  of  mutual  interest.  The  treaty  enraged  Iraqi 
nationalists,  who  were  still  bitter  over  the  Rashid  Ali  coup  of  1941 
and  the  continued  influence  of  the  British  in  Iraqi  affairs.  The 
uprising  also  was  fueled  by  widespread  popular  discontent  over  ris- 
ing prices,  by  an  acute  bread  shortage,  and  by  the  regime's  failure 
to  liberalize  the  political  system. 

The  Wathbah  had  three  important  effects  on  Iraqi  politics.  First, 
and  most  directly,  it  led  Nuri  as  Said  and  the  regent  to  repudiate 
the  Portsmouth  Treaty.  Second,  the  success  of  the  uprising  led  the 
opposition  to  intensify  its  campaign  to  discredit  the  regime.  This 
activity  not  only  weakened  the  monarchy  but  also  seriously  eroded 
the  legitimacy  of  the  political  process.  Finally,  the  uprising  created 
a  schism  between  Nuri  as  Said  and  Abd  al  Ilah.  The  former  wanted 
to  tighten  political  control  and  to  deal  harshly  with  the  opposition; 
the  regent  advocated  a  more  tempered  approach.  In  response,  the 
British  increasingly  mistrusted  the  regent  and  relied  more  and  more 
on  Nuri  as  Said. 

Iraq  bitterly  objected  to  the  1947  UN  decision  to  partition  Pales- 
tine and  sent  several  hundred  recruits  to  the  Palestine  front  when 
hostilities  broke  out  on  May  15,  1948.  Iraq  sent  an  additional  8,000 
to  10,000  troops  of  the  regular  army  during  the  course  of  the  1948 
Arab-Israeli  War;  these  troops  were  withdrawn  in  April  1949.  The 
Iraqis  had  arrived  at  the  Palestine  front  poorly  equipped  and  under- 
trained  because  of  the  drastic  reduction  in  defense  expenditures 


47 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

imposed  by  Nuri  as  Said  following  the  1941  Rashid  Ali  coup.  As 
a  result,  they  fared  very  poorly  in  the  fighting  and  returned  to  Iraq 
even  more  alienated  from  the  regime.  The  war  also  had  a  nega- 
tive impact  on  the  Iraqi  economy.  The  government  allocated 
40  percent  of  available  funds  for  the  army  and  for  Palestinian  refu- 
gees. Oil  royalties  paid  to  Iraq  were  halved  when  the  pipeline  to 
Haifa  was  cut  off  in  1948.  The  war  and  the  hanging  of  a  Jewish 
businessman  led,  moreover,  to  the  departure  of  most  of  Iraq's 
prosperous  Jewish  community;  about  120,000  Iraqi  Jews  emigrated 
to  Israel  between  1948  and  1952. 

In  1952  the  depressed  economic  situation,  which  had  been  exacer- 
bated by  a  bad  harvest  and  by  the  government's  refusal  to  hold 
direct  elections,  triggered  large-scale  antiregime  protests;  the  pro- 
tests turned  especially  violent  in  Baghdad.  In  response,  the  govern- 
ment declared  martial  law,  banned  all  political  parties,  suspended 
a  number  of  newspapers,  and  imposed  a  curfew.  The  immense  size 
of  the  protests  showed  how  widespread  dissatisfaction  with  the 
regime  had  become.  The  middle  class,  which  had  grown  consider- 
ably as  a  result  of  the  monarchy's  expanded  education  system,  had 
become  increasingly  alienated  from  the  regime,  in  large  part  because 
they  were  unable  to  earn  an  income  commensurate  with  their  sta- 
tus. Nuri  as  Said's  autocratic  manner,  his  intolerance  of  dissent, 
and  his  heavy-handed  treatment  of  the  political  opposition  had  fur- 
ther alienated  the  middle  class,  especially  the  army.  Forced  under- 
ground, the  opposition  had  become  more  revolutionary. 

By  the  early  1950s,  government  revenues  began  to  improve  with 
the  growth  of  the  oil  industry.  New  pipelines  were  built  to  Tripoli, 
Lebanon,  in  1949  and  to  Baniyas,  Syria,  in  1952.  A  new  oil  agree- 
ment, concluded  in  1952,  netted  the  government  50  percent  of  oil 
company  profits  before  taxes.  As  a  result,  government  oil  revenues 
increased  almost  fourfold,  from  US$32  million  in  1951  to  US$1 12 
million  in  1952.  The  increased  oil  payments,  however,  did  little 
for  the  masses.  Corruption  among  high  government  officials  in- 
creased; oil  companies  employed  relatively  few  Iraqis;  and  the  oil 
boom  also  had  a  severe  inflationary  effect  on  the  economy.  Infla- 
tion hurt  in  particular  a  growing  number  of  urban  poor  and  the 
salaried  middle  class.  The  increased  economic  power  of  the  state 
further  isolated  Nuri  as  Said  and  the  regent  from  Iraqi  society  and 
obscured  from  their  view  the  tenuous  nature  of  the  monarchy's 
hold  on  power. 

In  the  mid-1950s,  the  monarchy  was  embroiled  in  a  series  of 
foreign  policy  blunders  that  ultimately  contributed  to  its  overthrow. 
Following  a  1949  military  coup  in  Syria  that  brought  to  power  Adib 
Shishakli,  a  military  strongman  who  opposed  union  with  Iraq,  a 


48 


Historical  Setting 


split  developed  between  Abd  al  Ilah,  who  had  called  for  a  Syrian- 
Iraqi  union,  and  Nuri  as  Said,  who  opposed  the  union  plan. 
Although  Shishakli  was  overthrown  with  Iraqi  help  in  1954,  the 
union  plan  never  came  to  fruition.  Instead,  the  schism  between 
Nuri  as  Said  and  the  regent  widened.  Sensing  the  regime's  weak- 
ness, the  opposition  intensified  its  antiregime  activity. 

The  monarchy's  major  foreign  policy  mistake  occurred  in  1955, 
when  Nuri  as  Said  announced  that  Iraq  was  joining  a  British- 
supported  mutual  defense  pact  with  Iran,  Pakistan,  and  Turkey. 
The  Baghdad  Pact  constituted  a  direct  challenge  to  Egyptian  presi- 
dent Gamal  Abdul  Nasser.  In  response,  Nasser  launched  a  vitupera- 
tive media  campaign  that  challenged  the  legitimacy  of  the  Iraqi 
monarchy  and  called  on  the  officer  corps  to  overthrow  it.  The  1956 
British-French-Israeli  attack  on  Sinai  further  alienated  Nuri  as 
Said's  regime  from  the  growing  ranks  of  the  opposition.  In  1958 
King  Hussein  of  Jordan  and  Abd  al  Ilah  proposed  a  union  of  Hashi- 
mite  monarchies  to  counter  the  recently  formed  Egyptian-Syrian 
union.  At  this  point,  the  monarchy  found  itself  completely  isolated. 
Nuri  as  Said  was  able  to  contain  the  rising  discontent  only  by  resort- 
ing to  even  greater  oppression  and  to  tighter  control  over  the  politi- 
cal process. 

Republican  Iraq 

The  Hashimite  monarchy  was  overthrown  on  July  14,  1958,  in 
a  swift,  predawn  coup  executed  by  officers  of  the  Nineteenth  Brigade 
under  the  leadership  of  Brigadier  Abd  al  Karim  Qasim  and  Colonel 
Abd  as  Salaam  Arif.  The  coup  was  triggered  when  King  Hussein, 
fearing  that  an  anti-Western  revolt  in  Lebanon  might  spread  to 
Jordan,  requested  Iraqi  assistance.  Instead  of  moving  toward  Jor- 
dan, however,  Colonel  Arif  led  a  battalion  into  Baghdad  and 
immediately  proclaimed  a  new  republic  and  the  end  of  the  old 
regime.  The  July  14  Revolution  met  virtually  no  opposition  and 
proclamations  of  the  revolution  brought  crowds  of  people  into  the 
streets  of  Baghdad  cheering  for  the  deaths  of  Iraq's  two  "strong 
men,"  Nuri  as  Said  and  Abd  al  Ilah.  King  Faisal  II  and  Abd  al 
Ilah  were  executed,  as  were  many  others  in  the  royal  family.  Nuri 
as  Said  also  was  killed  after  attempting  to  escape  disguised  as  a 
veiled  woman.  In  the  ensuing  mob  demonstrations  against  the  old 
order,  angry  crowds  severely  damaged  the  British  embassy. 

Put  in  its  historical  context,  the  July  14  Revolution  was  the  culmi- 
nation of  a  series  of  uprisings  and  coup  attempts  that  began  with 
the  1936  Bakr  Sidqi  coup  and  included  the  1941  Rashid  Ali  military 
movement,  the  1948  Wathbah  Uprising,  and  the  1952  and  1956 
protests.  The  revolution  radically  altered  Iraq's  social  structure, 


49 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

destroying  the  power  of  the  landed  shaykhs  and  the  absentee  land- 
lords while  enhancing  the  position  of  the  urban  workers,  the 
peasants,  and  the  middle  class.  In  altering  the  old  power  structure, 
however,  the  revolution  revived  long-suppressed  sectarian,  tribal, 
and  ethnic  conflicts.  The  strongest  of  these  conflicts  were  those 
between  Kurds  and  Arabs  and  between  Sunnis  and  Shias. 

Despite  a  shared  military  background,  the  group  of  Free  Officers 
(see  Glossary)  that  carried  out  the  July  14  Revolution  was  plagued 
by  internal  dissension.  Its  members  lacked  both  a  coherent  ideology 
and  an  effective  organizational  structure.  Many  of  the  more  senior 
officers  resented  having  to  take  orders  from  Arif,  their  junior  in 
rank.  A  power  struggle  developed  between  Qasim  and  Arif  over 
joining  the  Egyptian-Syrian  union.  Arif  s  pro-Nasserite  sympathies 
were  supported  by  the  Baath  Party,  while  Qasim  found  support 
for  his  anti-union  position  in  the  ranks  of  the  communists.  Qasim, 
the  more  experienced  and  higher  ranking  of  the  two,  eventually 
emerged  victorious.  Arif  was  first  dismissed,  then  brought  to  trial 
for  treason  and  condemned  to  death  in  January  1959;  he  was  sub- 
sequently pardoned  in  December  1962. 

Whereas  he  implemented  many  reforms  that  favored  the  poor, 
Qasim  was  primarily  a  centrist  in  outlook,  proposing  to  improve 
the  lot  of  the  poor  while  not  dispossessing  the  wealthy.  In  part,  his 
ambiguous  policies  were  a  product  of  his  lack  of  a  solid  base  of  sup- 
port, especially  in  the  military.  Unlike  the  bulk  of  military  officers, 
Qasim  did  not  come  from  the  Arab  Sunni  northwestern  towns  nor 
did  he  share  their  enthusiasm  for  pan-Arabism:  he  was  of  mixed 
Sunni- Shia  parentage  from  southeastern  Iraq.  Qasim' s  ability  to 
remain  in  power  depended,  therefore,  on  a  skillful  balancing  of  the 
communists  and  the  pan-Arabists.  For  most  of  his  tenure,  Qasim 
sought  to  counterbalance  the  growing  pan- Arab  trend  in  the  military 
by  supporting  the  communists  who  controlled  the  streets.  He  autho- 
rized the  formation  of  a  communist-controlled  militia,  the  People's 
Resistance  Force,  and  he  freed  all  communist  prisoners. 

Qasim 's  economic  policies  reflected  his  poor  origins  and  his  ties 
with  the  communists.  He  permitted  trade  unions,  improved  work- 
ers' conditions,  and  implemented  land  reform  aimed  at  dismantling 
the  old  feudal  structure  of  the  countryside.  Qasim  also  challenged 
the  existing  profit-sharing  arrangements  with  the  oil  companies. 
On  December  11,  1961,  he  passed  Public  Law  80,  which  dispos- 
sessed the  IPC  of  99.5  percent  of  its  concession  area,  leaving  it  to 
operate  only  in  those  areas  currently  in  production.  The  new 
arrangement  significantly  increased  oil  revenues  accruing  to  the 
government.  Qasim  also  announced  the  establishment  of  an  Iraq 
National  Oil  Company  (INOC)  to  exploit  the  new  territory. 


50 


Historical  Setting 


In  March  1959,  a  group  of  disgruntled  Free  Officers,  who  came 
from  conservative,  well-known,  Arab  Sunni  families  and  who 
opposed  Qasim's  increasing  links  with  the  communists,  attempted 
a  coup.  Aware  of  the  planned  coup,  Qasim  had  his  communist  allies 
mobilize  250,000  of  their  supporters  in  Mosul.  The  ill-planned  coup 
attempt  never  really  materialized  and,  in  its  aftermath,  the  com- 
munists massacred  nationalists  and  some  well-to-do  Mosul  fami- 
lies, leaving  deep  scars  that  proved  to  be  very  slow  to  heal. 

Throughout  1959  the  ranks  of  the  ICP  swelled  as  the  party 
increased  its  presence  in  both  the  military  and  the  government. 
In  1959  Qasim  reestablished  diplomatic  relations  between  Iraq  and 
Moscow,  an  extensive  Iraqi-Soviet  economic  agreement  was  signed, 
and  arms  deliveries  began.  With  communist  fortunes  riding  high, 
another  large-scale  show  of  force  was  planned  in  Kirkuk,  where 
a  significant  number  of  Kurds  (many  of  them  either  members  of, 
or  sympathetic  to,  the  ICP)  lived  in  neighborhoods  contiguous  to 
a  Turkoman  upper  class.  In  Kirkuk,  however,  communist  rallies 
got  out  of  hand.  A  bloody  battle  ensued,  and  the  Kurds  looted  and 
killed  many  Turkomans.  The  communist-initiated  violence  at  Kir- 
kuk led  Qasim  to  crack  down  on  the  organization,  by  arresting 
some  of  the  more  unruly  rank-and-file  members  and  by  temporarily 
suspending  the  People's  Resistance  Force.  Following  the  events  at 
Mosul  and  at  Kirkuk,  the  Baath  and  its  leader,  Fuad  Rikabi, 
decided  that  the  only  way  to  dislodge  the  Qasim  regime  would  be 
to  kill  Qasim  (see  Coups,  Coup  Attempts,  and  Foreign  Policy,  this 
ch.).  The  future  president,  Saddam  Husayn,  carried  out  the 
attempted  assassination,  which  injured  Qasim  but  failed  to  kill  him. 
Qasim  reacted  by  softening  his  stance  on  the  communists  and  by 
suppressing  the  activities  of  the  Baath  and  other  nationalist  par- 
ties. The  renewed  communist-Qasim  relationship  did  not  last  long, 
however.  Throughout  1960  and  1961,  sensing  that  the  communists 
had  become  too  strong,  Qasim  again  moved  against  the  party  by 
eliminating  members  from  sensitive  government  positions,  by  crack- 
ing down  on  trade  unions  and  on  peasant  associations,  and  by  shut- 
ting down  the  communist  press. 

Qasim's  divorce  from  the  communists,  his  alienation  from  the 
nationalists,  his  aloof  manner,  and  his  monopoly  of  power — he  was 
frequently  referred  to  as  the  ''sole  leader" — isolated  him  from  a 
domestic  power  base.  In  1961  his  tenuous  hold  on  power  was  fur- 
ther weakened  when  the  Kurds  again  took  up  arms  against  the  cen- 
tral government. 

The  Kurds  had  ardently  supported  the  1958  revolution.  Indeed, 
the  new  constitution  put  forth  by  Qasim  and  Arif  had  stipulated 
that  the  Kurds  and  the  Arabs  would  be  equal  partners  in  the  new 


51 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


state.  Exiled  Kurdish  leaders,  including  Mullah  Mustafa  Barzani, 
were  allowed  to  return.  Mutual  suspicions,  however,  soon  soured 
the  Barzani-Qasim  relationship;  in  September  1961,  full-scale  fight- 
ing broke  out  between  Kurdish  guerrillas  and  the  Iraqi  army.  The 
army  did  not  fare  well  against  the  seasoned  Kurdish  guerrillas, 
many  of  whom  had  deserted  from  the  army.  By  the  spring  of  1962, 
Qasim's  inability  to  contain  the  Kurdish  insurrection  had  further 
eroded  his  base  of  power.  The  growing  opposition  was  now  in  a 
position  to  plot  his  overthrow. 

Qasim's  domestic  problems  were  compounded  by  a  number  of 
foreign  policy  crises,  the  foremost  of  which  was  an  escalating  con- 
flict with  the  shah  of  Iran.  Although  he  had  reined  in  the  com- 
munists, Qasim's  leftist  sympathies  aroused  fears  in  the  West  and 
in  neighboring  Gulf  states  of  an  imminent  communist  takeover  of 
Iraq.  In  April  1959,  Allen  Dulles,  the  director  of  the  United  States 
Central  Intelligence  Agency,  described  the  situation  in  Iraq  "as 
the  most  dangerous  in  the  world."  The  pro-Western  shah  found 
Qasim's  communist  sympathies  and  his  claims  on  Iranian  Khuze- 
stan  (an  area  that  stretched  from  Dezful  to  Ahvaz  in  Iran  and  that 
contained  a  majority  of  Iranians  of  Arab  descent)  to  be  anathema. 
In  December  1959,  Iraqi-Iranian  relations  rapidly  deteriorated 
when  Qasim,  reacting  to  Iran's  reopening  of  the  Shatt  al  Arab  dis- 
pute, nullified  the  1937  agreement  and  claimed  sovereignty  over 
the  anchorage  area  near  Abadan.  In  July  1961,  Qasim  further 
alienated  the  West  and  pro- Western  regional  states  by  laying  claim 
to  the  newly  independent  state  of  Kuwait.  When  the  Arab  League 
unanimously  accepted  Kuwait's  membership,  Iraq  broke  off  diplo- 
matic relations  with  its  Arab  neighbors.  Qasim  was  completely 
isolated. 

In  February  1963,  hemmed  in  by  regional  enemies  and  facing 
Kurdish  insurrection  in  the  north  and  a  growing  nationalist  move- 
ment at  home,  Qasim  was  overthrown.  Despite  the  long  list  of  ene- 
mies who  opposed  him  in  his  final  days,  Qasim  was  a  hero  to 
millions  of  urban  poor  and  impoverished  peasants,  many  of  whom 
rushed  to  his  defense. 

The  inability  of  the  masses  to  stave  off  the  nationalist  onslaught 
attested  to  the  near  total  divorce  of  the  Iraqi  people  from  the  politi- 
cal process.  From  the  days  of  the  monarchy,  the  legitimacy  of  the 
political  process  had  suffered  repeated  blows.  The  government's 
British  legacy,  Nuri  as  Said's  authoritarianism,  and  the  rapid 
encroachment  of  the  military  (who  paid  only  scant  homage  to  the 
institutions  of  state)  had  eroded  the  people's  faith  in  the  govern- 
ment; furthermore,  Qasim's  inability  to  stem  the  increasing  eth- 
nic, sectarian,  and  class-inspired  violence  reflected  an  even  deeper 


52 


Historical  Setting 


malaise.  The  unraveling  of  Iraq's  traditional  social  structure  upset 
a  precarious  balance  of  social  forces.  Centuries-old  religious  and 
sectarian  hatreds  now  combined  with  more  recent  class  antagonisms 
in  a  volatile  mix. 

Coups,  Coup  Attempts,  and  Foreign  Policy 

The  Baath  Party  that  orchestrated  the  overthrow  of  Qasim  was 
founded  in  the  early  1940s  by  two  Syrian  students,  Michel  Aflaq 
and  Salah  ad  Din  al  Bitar.  Its  ideological  goals  of  socialism,  free- 
dom, and  unity  reflected  the  deeply  felt  sentiments  of  many  Iraqis 
who,  during  the  monarchy,  had  suffered  from  the  economic  dislo- 
cation that  followed  the  breakup  of  the  old  Ottoman  domain,  from 
an  extremely  skewed  income  distribution,  and  from  the  suppres- 
sion of  political  freedoms.  Beginning  in  1952,  under  the  leader- 
ship of  Fuad  Rikabi,  the  party  grew  rapidly,  especially  among  the 
Iraqi  intelligentsia.  By  1958  the  Baath  had  made  some  inroads  into 
the  military.  The  party  went  through  a  difficult  period  in  1959, 
however,  after  the  Mosul  and  Kirkuk  incidents,  the  failed  attempt 
on  Qasim 's  life,  and  disillusionment  with  Nasser.  The  Baath 's  major 
competitor  throughout  the  Qasim  period  was  the  ICP;  when  Qasim 
was  finally  overthrown,  strongly  pitched  battles  between  the  two 
ensued.  The  Baath  was  able  to  consolidate  its  bid  for  power  only 
with  the  emergence  of  Ali  Salih  as  Saadi  as  leader. 

Upon  assuming  power,  the  Baath  established  the  National  Coun- 
cil of  Revolutionary  Command  (NCRC)  as  the  highest  policy- 
making body  and  appointed  Ahmad  Hasan  al  Bakr,  one  of  the  Free 
Officers,  as  prime  minister  and  Arif  as  president.  The  real  power, 
however,  was  held  by  the  party  leader,  Saadi.  Despite  the  domi- 
nance of  the  newly  established  NCRC,  the  Baath' s  hold  on  power 
was  extremely  tenuous.  The  organization  was  small,  with  an  active 
membership  of  fewer  than  1,000,  and  it  was  not  well  represented 
in  the  officer  corps  or  in  the  army  at  large.  Its  leadership  was 
inexperienced,  and  its  ideology  was  too  vague  to  have  any  immedi- 
ate relevance  to  the  deep-seated  problems  besetting  Iraq  in  the  early 
1960s.  Its  ambiguity  of  purpose  had  served  the  party  well  during 
the  Qasim  era,  enabling  it  to  attract  a  diverse  membership  shar- 
ing only  a  common  aversion  for  "the  sole  leader."  In  the  post- 
Qasim  period,  that  ambiguity  was  tearing  the  party  asunder. 

The  party's  lack  of  cohesion  and  lack  of  a  coherent  program  had 
two  major  effects  on  Baath  policy.  First,  it  led  party  "strong  man" 
Saadi  to  establish  a  one-party  state  that  showed  little  tolerance  for 
opposing  views.  Second,  in  the  absence  of  strong  ideological  ties, 
the  Baath  increasingly  was  pervaded  by  cliques  from  the  same 


53 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

village,  town,  or  tribe.  This  tendency  became  even  more  pro- 
nounced during  the  1970s. 

Troubled  by  internal  dissension  and  unable  to  suppress  a  new 
wave  of  Kurdish  unrest  in  the  north,  the  Baath  held  power  for  less 
than  a  year.  Most  damaging  was  the  foundering  of  unity  talks  with 
Nasser  and  the  new  Baathist  regime  in  Syria.  When  the  unity  plan 
collapsed,  Nasser  launched  a  vituperative  campaign  challenging 
the  legitimacy  of  the  Baath  in  Iraq  and  in  Syria.  Nasser's  attacks 
seriously  eroded  the  legitimacy  of  a  regime  that  had  continually 
espoused  pan-Arabism.  Another  factor  contributing  to  the  party's 
demise  was  Saadi's  reliance  on  the  National  Guard — a  paramili- 
tary force  composed  primarily  of  Baath  sympathizers — to  counter 
the  Baath 's  lack  of  support  in  the  regular  army.  By  bolstering  the 
guard,  Saadi  alienated  the  regular  army.  Finally,  the  Baath  was 
sharply  divided  between  doctrinaire  hard-liners,  such  as  Saadi,  and 
a  more  pragmatic  moderate  wing. 

With  its  party  ranks  weakened,  the  Baath  was  overthrown  by 
Arif  and  a  coterie  of  military  officers  in  a  bloodless  coup  in  Novem- 
ber 1963.  Upon  assuming  power,  Arif  immediately  announced  that 
the  armed  forces  would  manage  the  country.  The  governing  core 
consisted  of  Arif;  his  brother,  Abd  ar  Rahman  Arif;  and  his  trusted 
colleague,  Colonel  Said  Slaibi.  Arif  was  chairman  of  the  NCRC, 
commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces,  and  president  of  the  repub- 
lic; his  brother  was  acting  chief  of  staff,  and  the  colonel  was  com- 
mander of  the  Baghdad  garrison.  The  Arif  brothers,  Slaibi,  and 
the  majority  of  Arif's  Twentieth  Brigade  were  united  by  a  strong 
tribal  bond  as  members  of  the  Jumailah  tribe. 

Other  groups  who  participated  in  the  1963  coup  included 
Nasserites — an  informal  group  of  military  officers  and  civilians  who 
looked  to  Nasser  for  leadership  and  who  desired  some  kind  of  unity 
with  Egypt — and  Baathists  in  the  military.  By  the  spring  of  1964, 
Arif  had  adroidy  outmaneuvered  the  military  Baathists  and  had  filled 
the  top  leadership  posts  with  civilian  Nasserites.  Arif  and  the  Nas- 
serite  officers  took  steps  to  integrate  the  military,  economic,  and 
political  policies  of  Iraq  with  those  of  Egypt;  this  was  expected  to 
lead  to  the  union  of  the  two  countries  by  1966.  (The  United  Arab 
Republic  [UAR],  was  founded  by  Egypt  and  Syria  in  1958;  Syria 
withdrew  in  1961  leaving  Egypt  alone.  Arif  proposed  that  Iraq  join 
[partly  as  an  anticommunist  measure]  but  this  union  never  occurred.) 
In  May  1964,  the  Joint  Presidency  Council  was  formed,  and 
in  December  the  Unified  Political  Command  was  established 
to  expedite  the  ultimate  constitutional  union  of  the  two  countries. 
In  July  1964,  Arif  announced  that  henceforth  all  political  parties 
would  coalesce  to  form  the  Iraqi  Arab  Socialist  Union.  Most 


54 


o 


|"jjyj 


King  Faisal  II  inaugurating  Parliament  December  1956 
Courtesy  United  States  Information  Agency 


important  for  the  future,  Arif  adopted  Nasser's  socialist  program, 
calling  for  the  nationalization  of  insurance  companies,  banks,  and 
such  essential  industries  as  steel,  cement,  and  construction — along 
with  the  tobacco  industry,  tanneries,  and  flour  mills.  Arif  s  nation- 
alization program  proved  to  be  one  of  the  few  legacies  of  the  pro- 
posed Egyptian-Iraqi  union  (see  Industrialization,  ch.  3). 

By  1965  Arif  had  lost  his  enthusiasm  for  the  proposed  union, 
which  had  received  only  lukewarm  support  from  Nasser.  Arif  began 
ousting  Nasserite  officers  from  the  government.  As  a  result,  the 
newly  appointed  prime  minister,  Brigadier  Arif  Abd  ar  Razzaq, 
who  was  also  a  leading  Nasserite,  made  an  unsuccessful  coup 
attempt  on  September  12,  1965.  In  response,  President  Arif  cur- 
tailed Nasserite  activities  and  appointed  fellow  tribal  members  to 
positions  of  power.  Colonel  Abd  ar  Razzaq  an  Nayif,  a  fellow 
Jumailah,  became  head  of  military  intelligence.  Arif  also  attempted 
to  bring  more  civilians  into  the  government.  He  appointed  the  first 
civilian  prime  minister  since  the  days  of  the  monarchy,  Abd  ar  Rah- 
man Bazzaz.  Bazzaz  strongly  advocated  the  rule  of  law  and  was 
determined  to  end  the  erratic,  military-dominated  politics  that  had 
characterized  Iraq  since  1958.  He  also  tried  to  implement  the  First 
Five-Year  Economic  Plan  (1965-70)  to  streamline  the  bureaucracy 
and  to  encourage  private  and  foreign  investment. 

In  April  1966,  Arif  was  killed  in  a  helicopter  crash  and  his 


55 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

brother,  Major  General  Abd  ar  Rahman  Arif,  was  installed  in  office 
with  the  approval  of  the  National  Defense  Council  and  the  cabi- 
net. Abd  ar  Rahman  Arif  lacked  the  forcefulness  and  the  political 
acumen  of  his  brother;  moreover,  he  was  dominated  by  the  ambi- 
tious military  officers  who  were  responsible  for  his  appointment. 
The  government's  weak  hold  on  the  country  thus  became  more 
apparent.  The  most  pressing  issue  facing  the  new  government  was 
a  renewed  Kurdish  rebellion. 

The  1964  cease-fire  signed  by  Kurdish  leader  Mustafa  Barzani 
and  Abd  as  Salaam  Arif  was  short-lived;  by  April  1965,  the  two 
sides  were  again  engaged  in  hostilities.  This  time  military  support 
provided  by  the  shah  of  Iran  helped  the  Kurds  win  important  vic- 
tories over  the  Iraqi  army.  Kurdish  inroads  in  the  north  and  escalat- 
ing Iraqi-Iranian  tensions  prompted  Iraq's  prime  minister  Bazzaz 
to  propose  a  more  far-reaching  settlement  to  the  Kurdish  problem. 
Some  of  the  more  salient  points  of  Bazzaz' s  proposal  included 
amnesty,  use  of  the  Kurdish  language  in  Kurdish  areas,  Kurdish 
administration  of  their  educational,  health,  and  municipal  insti- 
tutions, and  the  promise  of  early  elections  by  which  the  Kurds  would 
gain  proportional  representation  in  national  as  well  as  in  provin- 
cial assemblies.  When  Barzani  indicated  that  he  approved  of  these 
proposals,  the  Kurdish  conflict  appeared  to  have  ended. 

The  army,  however,  which  had  opposed  having  Bazzaz  as  a 
civilian  head  of  the  cabinet,  feared  that  he  would  reduce  their  pay 
and  privileges;  consequently,  it  strongly  denounced  reconciliation 
with  the  Kurds.  President  Arif  yielded  to  pressure  and  asked  for 
Bazzaz 's  resignation.  This  ended  the  rapprochement  with  the  Kurds 
and  led  to  a  collapse  of  civilian  rule.  The  new  prime  minister  was 
General  Naji  Talib,  a  pro-Nasserite  who  had  been  instrumental 
in  the  1958  Revolution  and  who  strongly  opposed  the  Kurdish  peace 
plan. 

Arif  also  sought  to  further  the  improved  relations  with  Iran 
initiated  by  Bazzaz.  This  rapprochement  was  significant  because 
it  denied  the  Kurds  access  to  their  traditional  place  of  asylum,  which 
allowed  recovery  from  Iraqi  attacks.  Arif  visited  Tehran  in  the 
spring  of  1967;  at  the  conclusion  of  his  visit,  it  was  announced  that 
the  countries  would  hold  more  meetings  aimed  at  joint  oil  explo- 
ration in  the  Naft-e  Shah  and  Naft  Khaneh  border  regions.  They 
also  agreed  to  continue  negotiations  on  toll  collection  and  naviga- 
tion rights  on  the  Shatt  al  Arab  and  on  the  demarcation  of  the  Per- 
sian Gulfs  continental  shelf. 

During  the  winter  of  1966-67,  Arif  faced  a  crisis  emanating  from 
a  new  source,  Syria.  The  IPC  transported  oil  from  its  northern 
fields  to  Mediterranean  ports  via  pipelines  in  Syria.  In  1966 


56 


Historical  Setting 


Damascus  claimed  that  the  IPC  had  been  underpaying  Syria,  based 
on  their  1955  agreement.  Syria  demanded  back  payments  and 
immediately  increased  the  transit  fee  it  charged  the  IPC.  When 
the  IPC  did  not  accede  to  Syrian  demands,  Syria  cut  off  the  flow 
of  Iraqi  oil  to  its  Mediterranean  ports.  The  loss  of  revenue  threa- 
tened to  cause  a  severe  financial  crisis.  It  also  fueled  anti-Talib  forces 
and  increased  public  clamor  for  his  resignation.  In  response,  Talib 
resigned,  and  Arif  briefly  headed  an  extremely  unsteady  group  of 
military  officers. 

In  the  opinion  of  Phebe  Marr,  a  leading  authority  on  Iraq,  on 
the  eve  of  the  June  1967  War  between  Israel  and  various  Arab 
states,  the  Arif  government  had  become  little  more  than  a  collec- 
tion of  army  officers  balancing  the  special  interests  of  various  eco- 
nomic, political,  ethnic,  and  sectarian  groups.  The  non-intervention 
of  Iraqi  troops  while  Israel  was  overtaking  the  Egyptian,  Syrian, 
and  Jordanian  armies  and  was  conquering  large  tracts  of  Arab  ter- 
ritory discredited  the  Arif  regime  in  the  eyes  of  the  masses.  To  stave 
off  rising  discontent,  Arif  reappointed  strongman  Tahir  Yahya  as 
prime  minister  (he  had  first  been  appointed  by  Arif  in  November 
1963).  Yahya' s  only  accomplishment  was  to  lessen  Iraq's  economic 
dependence  on  the  Western-owned  IPC:  on  August  6,  his  govern- 
ment turned  over  all  exploitation  rights  in  the  oil-rich  North 
Rumailah  field  to  the  state-controlled  INOC  (see  Post- World  War 
II  Through  the  1970s,  ch.  3).  The  Arif  government,  however,  had 
lost  its  base  of  power.  Lacking  a  coherent  political  platform  and 
facing  increasing  charges  of  corruption,  the  government  was  only 
hanging  on. 

Ultimately  two  disaffected  Arif  supporters — Colonel  Abd  ar  Raz- 
zaq  an  Nayif  and  Ibrahim  ad  Daud — were  able  to  stage  a  successful 
coup  against  Arif,  and  the  Baath  quickly  capitalized  on  the  situa- 
tion. Nayif  and  Daud  had  been  part  of  a  small  group  of  young 
officers,  called  the  Arab  Revolutionary  Movement,  that  previously 
had  been  a  major  source  of  support  for  Arif.  By  July  1968,  however, 
reports  of  corruption  and  Arif  s  increased  reliance  on  the  Nasserites 
(whom  both  Nayif  and  Daud  opposed)  had  alienated  the  two  officers. 
Nayif  and  Daud  acted  independently  from  the  Baath  in  carrying 
out  the  coup,  but  lacked  the  organizational  backing  or  the  grass-roots 
support  necessary  to  remain  in  power.  In  only  a  few  weeks,  the  Baath 
had  outmaneuvered  Nayif  and  Daud,  and,  for  the  second  time  in 
five  years,  had  taken  over  control  of  the  government. 

The  Emergence  of  Saddam  Husayn,  1968-79 

The  Baath  of  1968  was  more  tightly  organized  and  more  deter- 
mined to  stay  in  power  than  the  Baath  of  1963.  The  demise  of 


57 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Nasserism  following  the  June  1967  War  and  the  emergence  of  a 
more  parochially  oriented  Baath  in  Syria  freed  the  Iraqi  Baath  from 
the  debilitating  aspects  of  pan-Arabism.  In  1963  Nasser  had  been 
able  to  manipulate  domestic  Iraqi  politics;  by  1968  his  ideological 
pull  had  waned,  enabling  the  Iraqi  Baath  to  focus  on  pressing 
domestic  issues.  The  party  also  was  aided  by  a  1967  reorganiza- 
tion that  created  a  militia  and  an  intelligence  apparatus  and  set 
up  local  branches  that  gave  the  Baath  broader  support.  In  addi- 
tion, by  1968  close  family  and  tribal  ties  bound  the  Baath' s  ruling 
clique.  Most  notable  in  this  regard  was  the  emergence  of  Tikritis — 
Sunni  Arabs  from  the  northwest  town  of  Tikrit — related  to  Ahmad 
Hasan  al  Bakr.  Three  of  the  five  members  of  the  Baath' s  Revolu- 
tionary Command  Council  (RCC)  were  Tikritis;  two,  Bakr  and 
Hammad  Shihab,  were  related  to  each  other.  The  cabinet  posts 
of  president,  prime  minister,  and  defense  minister  went  to  Tikritis. 
Saddam  Husayn,  a  key  leader  behind  the  scenes,  also  was  a  Tikriti 
and  a  relative  of  Bakr.  Another  distinguishing  characteristic  of  the 
Baath  in  1968  was  that  the  top  leadership  consisted  almost  entirely 
of  military  men.  Finally,  Bakr  was  a  much  more  seasoned  politi- 
cian in  1968  than  he  had  been  in  1963. 

Less  than  two  months  after  the  formation  of  the  Bakr  govern- 
ment, a  coalition  of  pro-Nasser  elements,  Arif  supporters,  and  con- 
servatives from  the  military  attempted  another  coup.  This  event 
provided  the  rationale  for  numerous  purges  directed  by  Bakr  and 
Saddam  Husayn.  Between  1968  and  1973,  through  a  series  of  sham 
trials,  executions,  assassinations,  and  intimidations,  the  party  ruth- 
lessly eliminated  any  group  or  person  suspected  of  challenging  Baath 
rule.  The  Baath  also  institutionalized  its  rule  by  formally  issuing 
a  Provisional  Constitution  in  July  1970.  This  document  was  a 
modification  of  an  earlier  constitution  that  had  been  issued  in  Sep- 
tember 1968.  The  Provisional  Constitution,  which  with  some 
modifications  is  still  in  effect,  granted  the  party-dominated  RCC 
extensive  powers  and  declared  that  new  RCC  members  must  belong 
to  the  party's  Regional  Command — the  top  policy-making  and 
executive  body  of  the  Baathist  organization  (see  Constitutional 
Framework,  ch.  4). 

Two  men,  Saddam  Husayn  and  Bakr,  increasingly  dominated 
the  party.  Bakr,  who  had  been  associated  with  Arab  nationalist 
causes  for  more  than  a  decade,  brought  the  party  popular  legiti- 
macy. Even  more  important,  he  brought  support  from  the  army 
both  among  Baathist  and  non-Baathist  officers,  with  whom  he  had 
cultivated  ties  for  years.  Saddam  Husayn,  on  the  other  hand,  was 
a  consummate  party  politician  whose  formative  experiences  were 
in  organizing  clandestine  opposition  activity.  He  was  adept  at 


58 


Historical  Setting 


outmaneuvering — and  at  times  ruthlessly  eliminating — political 
opponents.  Although  Bakr  was  the  older  and  more  prestigious  of 
the  two,  by  1969  Saddam  Husayn  clearly  had  become  the  moving 
force  behind  the  party.  He  personally  directed  Baathist  attempts 
to  settle  the  Kurdish  question  and  he  organized  the  party's  institu- 
tional structure. 

In  July  1973,  after  an  unsuccessful  coup  attempt  by  a  civilian 
faction  within  the  Baath  led  by  Nazim  Kazzar,  the  party  set  out 
to  reconsolidate  its  hold  on  power.  First,  the  RCC  amended  the 
Provisional  Constitution  to  give  the  president  greater  power. 
Second,  in  early  1974  the  Regional  Command  was  officially  desig- 
nated as  the  body  responsible  for  making  policy  (see  The  Revolu- 
tionary Command  Council,  ch.  4).  By  September  1977,  all  Regional 
Command  leaders  had  been  appointed  to  the  RCC.  Third,  the  party 
created  a  more  pervasive  presence  in  Iraqi  society  by  establishing 
a  complex  network  of  grass-roots  and  intelligence- gathering  organi- 
zations. Finally,  the  party  established  its  own  militia,  which  in  1978 
was  reported  to  number  close  to  50,000  men. 

Despite  Baath  attempts  to  institutionalize  its  rule,  real  power 
remained  in  the  hands  of  a  narrowly  based  elite,  united  by  close 
family  and  tribal  ties.  By  1977  the  most  powerful  men  in  the  Baath 
thus  were  all  somehow  related  to  the  triumvirate  of  Saddam 
Husayn,  Bakr,  and  General  Adnan  Khayr  Allah  Talfah,  Saddam 
Husayn' s  brother-in-law  who  became  minister  of  defense  in  1978. 
All  were  members  of  the  party,  the  RCC,  and  the  cabinet,  and 
all  were  members  of  the  Talfah  family  of  Tikrit,  headed  by  Khayr 
Allah  Talfah.  Khayr  Allah  Talfah  was  Saddam  Husayn's  uncle  and 
guardian,  Adnan  Khayr  Allah's  father,  and  Bakr's  cousin.  Saddam 
Husayn  was  married  to  Adnan  Khayr  Allah's  sister  and  Adnan 
Khayr  Allah  was  married  to  Bakr's  daughter.  Increasingly,  the  most 
sensitive  military  posts  were  going  to  the  Tikritis. 

Beginning  in  the  mid-1970s,  Bakr  was  beset  by  illness  and  by 
a  series  of  family  tragedies.  He  increasingly  turned  over  power  to 
Saddam  Husayn.  By  1977  the  party  bureaus,  the  intelligence 
mechanisms,  and  even  ministers  who,  according  to  the  Provisional 
Constitution,  should  have  reported  to  Bakr,  reported  to  Saddam 
Husayn.  Saddam  Husayn,  meanwhile,  was  less  inclined  to  share 
power,  and  he  viewed  the  cabinet  and  the  RCC  as  rubber  stamps. 
On  July  16,  1979,  President  Bakr  resigned,  and  Saddam  Husayn 
officially  replaced  him  as  president  of  the  republic,  secretary  general 
of  the  Baath  Party  Regional  Command,  chairman  of  the  RCC, 
and  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces. 

In  foreign  affairs,  the  Baath' s  pan- Arab  and  socialist  leanings 
alienated  both  the  pro-Western  Arab  Gulf  states  and  the  shah  of 


59 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Iran.  The  enmity  between  Iraq  and  Iran  sharpened  with  the  1969 
British  announcement  of  a  planned  withdrawal  from  the  Gulf  in 
1971.  In  February  1969,  Iran  announced  that  Iraq  had  not  ful- 
filled its  obligations  under  the  1937  treaty  and  demanded  that  the 
border  in  the  Shatt  al  Arab  waterway  be  set  at  the  thalweg.  Iraq's 
refusal  to  honor  the  Iranian  demand  led  the  shah  to  abrogate  the 
1937  treaty  and  to  send  Iranian  ships  through  the  Shatt  al  Arab 
without  paying  dues  to  Iraq.  In  response,  Iraq  aided  anti-shah  dis- 
sidents, while  the  shah  renewed  support  for  Kurdish  rebels.  Rela- 
tions between  the  two  countries  soon  deteriorated  further.  In 
November  1971,  the  shah  occupied  the  islands  of  Abu  Musa  and 
the  Greater  and  Lesser  Tunbs,  which  previously  had  been  under 
the  sovereignty  of  Ras  al  Khaymah  and  Sharjah,  both  member 
states  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates. 

The  Iraqi  Baath  also  was  involved  in  a  confrontation  with  the 
conservative  shaykhdoms  of  the  Gulf  over  Iraq's  support  for  the 
leftist  People's  Democratic  Republic  of  Yemen  (South  Yemen)  and 
the  Popular  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  the  Occupied  Arabian  Gulf. 
The  major  contention  between  Iraq  and  the  conservative  Gulf  states, 
however,  concerned  the  Kuwaiti  islands  of  Bubiyan  and  Warbah 
that  dominate  the  estuary  leading  to  the  southern  Iraqi  port  of  Umm 
Qasr.  Beginning  in  the  early  1970s,  Iraq's  desire  to  develop  a  deep- 
water  port  on  the  Gulf  led  to  demands  that  the  two  islands  be  trans- 
ferred or  leased  to  Iraq.  Kuwait  refused,  and  in  March  1973  Iraqi 
troops  occupied  As  Samitah,  a  border  post  in  the  northeast  corner 
of  Kuwait.  Saudi  Arabia  immediately  came  to  Kuwait's  aid  and, 
together  with  the  Arab  League,  obtained  Iraq's  withdrawal. 

The  most  serious  threat  facing  the  Baath  was  a  resurgence  of 
Kurdish  unrest  in  the  north.  In  March  1970,  the  RCC  and  Mustafa 
Barzani  announced  agreement  to  a  fifteen-article  peace  plan.  This 
plan  was  almost  identical  to  the  previous  Bazzaz-Kurdish  settle- 
ment that  had  never  been  implemented.  The  Kurds  were  immedi- 
ately pacified  by  the  settlement,  particularly  because  Barzani  was 
permitted  to  retain  his  15,000  Kurdish  troops.  Barzani' s  troops 
then  became  an  official  Iraqi  frontier  force  called  the  Pesh  Merga, 
meaning  "Those  Who  Face  Death."  The  plan,  however,  was  not 
completely  satisfactory  because  the  legal  status  of  the  Kurdish  ter- 
ritory remained  unresolved.  At  the  time  of  the  signing  of  the  peace 
plan,  Barzani' s  forces  controlled  territory  from  Zakhu  in  the  north 
to  Halabjah  in  the  southeast  and  already  had  established  de  facto 
Kurdish  administration  in  most  of  the  towns  of  the  area.  Barzani' s 
group,  the  Kurdish  Democratic  Party  (KDP),  was  granted  official 
recognition  as  the  legitimate  representative  of  the  Kurdish  people. 


60 


Historical  Setting 


The  1970  agreement  unraveled  throughout  the  early  1970s.  After 
the  March  1974  Baath  attempt  to  assassinate  Barzani  and  his  son 
Idris,  full-scale  fighting  broke  out.  In  early  1974,  it  appeared  that 
the  Baath  had  finally  succeeded  in  isolating  Barzani  and  the  KDP 
by  coopting  the  ICP  and  by  signing  a  treaty  with  the  Soviet  Union, 
both  traditionally  strong  supporters  of  the  KDP.  Barzani,  however, 
compensated  for  the  loss  of  Soviet  and  ICP  support  by  obtaining 
military  aid  from  the  shah  of  Iran  and  from  the  United  States,  both 
of  which  were  alarmed  by  increasing  Soviet  influence  in  Iraq.  When 
Iraqi  forces  reached  Rawanduz,  threatening  to  block  the  major 
Kurdish  artery  to  Iran,  the  shah  increased  the  flow  of  military  sup- 
plies to  the  Kurdish  rebels.  Using  antitank  missiles  and  artillery 
obtained  from  Iran  as  well  as  military  aid  from  Syria  and  Israel, 
the  KDP  inflicted  heavy  losses  on  the  Iraqi  forces.  To  avoid  a  costly 
stalemate  like  that  which  had  weakened  his  predecessors,  Saddam 
Husayn  sought  an  agreement  with  the  shah. 

In  Algiers  on  March  6,  1975,  Saddam  Husayn  signed  an  agree- 
ment with  the  shah  that  recognized  the  thalweg  as  the  boundary 
in  the  Shatt  al  Arab,  legalized  the  shah's  abrogation  of  the  1937 
treaty  in  1969,  and  dropped  all  Iraqi  claims  to  Iranian  Khuzestan 
and  to  the  islands  at  the  foot  of  the  Gulf.  In  return,  the  shah  agreed 
to  prevent  subversive  elements  from  crossing  the  border.  This  agree- 
ment meant  an  end  to  Iranian  assistance  to  the  Kurds.  Almost 
immediately  after  the  signing  of  the  Algiers  Agreement,  Iraqi  forces 
went  on  the  offensive  and  defeated  the  Pesh  Merga,  which  was 
unable  to  hold  out  without  Iranian  support.  Under  an  amnesty 
plan,  about  70  percent  of  the  Pesh  Merga  surrendered  to  the  Iraqis. 
Some  remained  in  the  hills  of  Kurdistan  to  continue  the  fight,  and 
about  30,000  crossed  the  border  to  Iran  to  join  the  civilian  refu- 
gees, then  estimated  at  between  100,000  and  200,000. 

Even  before  the  fighting  broke  out  in  March  1974,  Saddam 
Husayn  had  offered  the  Kurds  the  most  comprehensive  autonomy 
plan  ever  proposed.  The  major  provisions  of  the  plan  stated  that 
Kurdistan  would  be  an  autonomous  area  governed  by  an  elected 
legislative  and  an  executive  council,  the  president  of  which  would 
be  appointed  by  the  Iraqi  head  of  state.  The  Kurdish  council  would 
have  control  over  local  affairs  except  in  the  areas  of  defense  and 
foreign  relations,  which  would  be  controlled  by  the  central  govern- 
ment. The  autonomous  region  did  not  include  the  oil-rich  district 
of  Kirkuk.  To  facilitate  the  autonomy  plan,  Saddam  Husayn' s 
administration  helped  form  three  progovernment  Kurdish  parties, 
allocated  a  special  budget  for  development  in  Kurdish  areas,  and 
repatriated  many  Kurdish  refugees  then  living  in  Iran. 


61 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

In  addition  to  the  conciliatory  measures  offered  to  the  Kurds, 
Saddam  Husayn  attempted  to  weaken  Kurdish  resistance  by  forc- 
ibly relocating  many  Kurds  from  the  Kurdish  heartland  in  the 
north,  by  introducing  increasing  numbers  of  Arabs  into  mixed 
Kurdish  provinces,  and  by  razing  all  Kurdish  villages  along  a  1 , 300- 
kilometer  stretch  of  the  border  with  Iran.  Saddam  Husayn's  com- 
bination of  conciliation  and  severity  failed  to  appease  the  Kurds, 
and  renewed  guerrilla  attacks  occurred  as  early  as  March  1976. 
At  the  same  time,  the  failure  of  the  KDP  to  obtain  significant  con- 
cessions from  the  Iraqi  government  caused  a  serious  split  within 
the  Kurdish  resistance.  In  June  1975,  Jalal  Talabani  formed  the 
Patriotic  Union  of  Kurdistan  (PUK).  The  PUK  was  urban-based 
and  more  leftist  than  the  tribally  based  KDP.  Following  Barzani's 
death  in  1975,  Barzani's  sons,  Idris  and  Masud,  took  control  of 
the  KDP.  In  October  1979,  Masud  officially  was  elected  KDP  chair- 
man. He  issued  a  new  platform  calling  for  continued  armed  struggle 
against  the  Baath  through  guerrilla  warfare.  The  effectiveness  of 
the  KDP,  however,  was  blunted  by  its  violent  intra-Kurdish  struggle 
with  the  PUK  throughout  1978  and  1979. 

Beginning  in  1976,  with  the  Baath  firmly  in  power  and  after  the 
Kurdish  rebellion  had  been  successfully  quelled,  Saddam  Husayn 
set  out  to  consolidate  his  position  at  home  by  strengthening  the 
economy.  He  pursued  a  state-sponsored  industrial  modernization 
program  that  tied  an  increasing  number  of  Iraqis  to  the  Baath- 
controlled  government.  Saddam  Husayn's  economic  policies  were 
largely  successful;  they  led  to  a  wider  distribution  of  wealth,  to 
greater  social  mobility,  to  increased  access  to  education  and  health 
care,  and  to  the  redistribution  of  land.  The  quadrupling  of  oil  prices 
in  1973  and  the  subsequent  oil  price  rises  brought  on  by  the  1979 
Islamic  Revolution  in  Iran  greatly  enhanced  the  success  of  Saddam 
Husayn's  program.  The  more  equitable  distribution  of  income  tied 
to  the  ruling  party  many  Iraqis  who  had  previously  opposed  the 
central  government.  For  the  first  time  in  modern  Iraqi  history,  a 
government — albeit  at  times  a  ruthless  one,  had  thus  achieved  some 
success  in  forging  a  national  community  out  of  the  country's  dis- 
parate social  elements. 

Success  on  the  economic  front  spurred  Saddam  Husayn  to  pur- 
sue an  ambitious  foreign  policy  aimed  at  pushing  Iraq  to  the  fore- 
front of  the  Arab  world.  Between  1975  and  1979,  a  major  plank 
of  Saddam  Husayn's  bid  for  power  in  the  region  rested  on  improved 
relations  with  Iran,  with  Saudi  Arabia,  and  with  the  smaller  Gulf 
shaykhdoms.  In  1975  Iraq  established  diplomatic  relations  with 
Sultan  Qabus  of  Oman  and  extended  several  loans  to  him.  In  1978 
Iraq  sharply  reversed  its  support  for  the  Marxist  regime  in  South 


62 


Historical  Setting 


Yemen.  The  biggest  boost  to  Saddam  Husayn's  quest  for  regional 
power,  however,  resulted  from  Egyptian  President  Anwar  Sadat's 
signing  the  Camp  David  Accords  in  November  1978. 

Saddam  Husayn  viewed  Egypt's  isolation  within  the  Arab  world 
as  an  opportunity  for  Iraq  to  play  a  leading  role  in  Arab  affairs. 
He  was  instrumental  in  convening  an  Arab  summit  in  Baghdad 
that  denounced  Sadat's  reconciliation  with  Israel  and  imposed  sanc- 
tions on  Egypt.  He  also  attempted  to  end  his  long-standing  feud 
with  Syrian  President  Hafiz  al  Assad,  and,  in  June  1979,  Saddam 
Husayn  became  the  first  Iraqi  head  of  state  in  twenty  years  to  visit 
Jordan.  In  Amman,  Saddam  Husayn  concluded  a  number  of  agree- 
ments with  King  Hussein,  including  one  for  the  expansion  of  the 
port  of  Aqabah,  regarded  by  Iraq  as  a  potential  replacement  for 
ports  in  Lebanon  and  Syria. 

The  Iran-Iraq  Conflict 

In  February  1979,  Saddam  Husayn's  ambitious  plans  and  the 
course  of  Iraqi  history  were  drastically  altered  by  the  overthrow 
of  the  shah  of  Iran.  Husayn  viewed  the  1979  Islamic  Revolution 
in  Iran  as  both  a  threat  and  an  opportunity.  The  downfall  of  the 
shah  and  the  confusion  prevailing  in  postrevolutionary  Iran  suited 
Saddam  Husayn's  regional  ambitions.  A  weakened  Iran  seemed 
to  offer  an  opportunity  to  project  Iraqi  power  over  the  Gulf,  to 
regain  control  over  the  Shatt  al  Arab  waterway,  and  to  augment 
Iraqi  claims  to  leadership  of  the  Arab  world.  More  ominously,  the 
activist  Shia  Islam  preached  by  the  leader  of  the  revolution  in  Iran, 
Ayatollah  Sayyid  Ruhollah  Musavi  Khomeini,  threatened  to  upset 
the  delicate  Sunni-Shia  balance  in  Iraq,  and  a  hostile  Iran  would 
threaten  Iraqi  security  in  the  Gulf.  Furthermore,  deep-seated  per- 
sonal animosities  separated  the  two  leaders.  The  two  men  held 
widely  divergent  ideologies,  and  in  1978  Husayn  had  expelled 
Khomeini  from  Iraq— reportedly  at  the  request  of  the  shah — after 
he  had  lived  thirteen  years  in  exile  in  An  Najaf. 

For  much  of  Iraqi  history,  the  Shias  have  been  both  politically 
impotent  and  economically  depressed.  Beginning  in  the  sixteenth 
century,  when  the  Ottoman  Sunnis  favored  their  Iraqi  coreligionists 
in  the  matter  of  educational  and  employment  opportunities,  the 
Shias  consistently  have  been  denied  political  power.  Thus,  although 
the  Shias  constitute  more  then  50  percent  of  the  population,  they 
occupy  a  relatively  insignificant  number  of  government  posts.  On 
the  economic  level,  aside  from  a  small  number  of  wealthy  landown- 
ers and  merchants,  the  Shias  historically  were  exploited  as 
sharecropping  peasants  or  menially  employed  slum  dwellers.  Even 
the  prosperity  brought  by  the  oil  boom  of  the  1970s  only  trickled 

63 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


down  slowly  to  the  Shias;  however,  beginning  in  the  latter  half  of 
the  1970s,  Husayn's  populist  economic  policies  had  a  favorable 
impact  on  them,  enabling  many  to  join  the  ranks  of  a  new  Shia 
middle  class. 

Widespread  Shia  demonstrations  took  place  in  Iraq  in  Febru- 
ary 1977,  when  the  government,  suspecting  a  bomb,  closed  Karbala 
to  pilgrimage  at  the  height  of  a  religious  ceremony.  Violent  clashes 
between  police  and  Shia  pilgrims  spread  from  Karbala  to  An  Najaf 
and  lasted  for  several  days  before  army  troops  were  called  in  to 
quell  the  unrest.  It  was  the  1979  Islamic  Revolution  in  Iran, 
however,  that  transformed  Shia  dissatisfaction  with  the  Baath  into 
an  organized  religiously  based  opposition.  The  Baath  leadership 
feared  that  the  success  of  Iran's  Islamic  Revolution  would  serve 
as  an  inspiration  to  Iraqi  Shias.  These  fears  escalated  in  July  1979, 
when  riots  broke  out  in  An  Najaf  and  in  Karbala  after  the  govern- 
ment had  refused  Ayatollah  Muhammad  Baqir  as  Sadr's  request 
to  lead  a  procession  to  Iran  to  congratulate  Khomeini.  Even  more 
worrisome  to  the  Baath  was  the  discovery  of  a  clandestine  Shia 
group  headed  by  religious  leaders  having  ties  to  Iran.  Baqir  as  Sadr 
was  the  inspirational  leader  of  the  group,  named  Ad  Dawah  al 
Islamiyah  (the  Islamic  Call),  commonly  referred  to  as  Ad  Dawah. 
He  espoused  a  program  similar  to  Khomeini's,  which  called  for 
a  return  to  Islamic  precepts  of  government  and  for  social  justice. 

Despite  the  Iraqi  government's  concern,  the  eruption  of  the  1979 
Islamic  Revolution  in  Iran  did  not  immediately  destroy  the  Iraqi- 
Iranian  rapprochement  that  had  prevailed  since  the  1975  Algiers 
Agreement.  As  a  sign  of  Iraq's  desire  to  maintain  good  relations 
with  the  new  government  in  Tehran,  President  Bakr  sent  a  per- 
sonal message  to  Khomeini  offering  "his  best  wishes  for  the  friendly 
Iranian  people  on  the  occasion  of  the  establishment  of  the  Islamic 
Republic."  In  addition,  as  late  as  the  end  of  August  1979,  Iraqi 
authorities  extended  an  invitation  to  Mehdi  Bazargan,  the  first 
president  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  to  visit  Iraq  with  the  aim 
of  improving  bilateral  relations.  The  fall  of  the  moderate  Bazargan 
government  in  late  1979,  however,  and  the  rise  of  Islamic  mili- 
tants preaching  an  expansionist  foreign  policy  soured  Iraqi-Iranian 
relations. 

The  principal  events  that  touched  off  the  rapid  deterioration  in 
relations  occurred  during  the  spring  of  1980.  In  April  the  Iranian- 
supported  Ad  Dawah  attempted  to  assassinate  Iraqi  foreign  minister 
Tariq  Aziz.  Shortly  after  the  failed  grenade  attack  on  Tariq  Aziz, 
Ad  Dawah  was  suspected  of  attempting  to  assassinate  another  Iraqi 
leader,  Minister  of  Culture  and  Information  Latif  Nayyif  Jasim. 
In  response,  the  Iraqis  immediately  rounded  up  members  and 


64 


Historical  Setting 


supporters  of  Ad  Dawah  and  deported  to  Iran  thousands  of  Shias 
of  Iranian  origin.  In  the  summer  of  1980,  Saddam  Husayn  ordered 
executions  of  the  presumed  Ad  Dawah  leader,  Ayatollah  Sayyid 
Muhammad  Baqr  as  Sadr,  and  his  sister. 

In  September  1980,  border  skirmishes  erupted  in  the  central  sec- 
tor near  Qasr-e  Shirin,  with  an  exchange  of  artillery  fire  by  both 
sides.  A  few  weeks  later,  Saddam  Husayn  officially  abrogated  the 
1975  treaty  between  Iraq  and  Iran  and  announced  that  the  Shatt 
al  Arab  was  returning  to  Iraqi  sovereignty.  Iran  rejected  this  action 
and  hostilities  escalated  as  the  two  sides  exchanged  bombing  raids 
deep  into  each  other's  territory.  Finally,  on  September  23,  Iraqi 
troops  marched  into  Iranian  territory,  beginning  what  was  to  be 
a  protracted  and  extremely  costly  war  (see  The  Iran-Iraq  War, 
ch.  5). 

The  Iran-Iraq  War  permanently  altered  the  course  of  Iraqi  his- 
tory. It  strained  Iraqi  political  and  social  life,  and  led  to  severe  eco- 
nomic dislocations  (see  Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy, 
ch.  3).  Viewed  from  a  historical  perspective,  the  outbreak  of  hostili- 
ties in  1980  was,  in  part,  just  another  phase  of  the  ancient  Persian- 
Arab  conflict  that  had  been  fueled  by  twentieth-century  border 
disputes.  Many  observers,  however,  believe  that  Saddam  Husayn 's 
decision  to  invade  Iran  was  a  personal  miscalculation  based  on 
ambition  and  a  sense  of  vulnerability.  Saddam  Husayn,  despite 
having  made  significant  strides  in  forging  an  Iraqi  nation-state, 
feared  that  Iran's  new  revolutionary  leadership  would  threaten 
Iraq's  delicate  Sunni-Shia  balance  and  would  exploit  Iraq's  geo- 
strategic  vulnerabilities — Iraq's  minimal  access  to  the  Persian  Gulf, 
for  example.  In  this  respect,  Saddam  Husayn 's  decision  to  invade 
Iran  has  historical  precedent;  the  ancient  rulers  of  Mesopotamia, 
fearing  internal  strife  and  foreign  conquest,  also  engaged  in  fre- 
quent battles  with  the  peoples  of  the  highlands. 

*    *  * 

The  most  reliable  work  on  the  ancient  history  of  Iraq  is  George 
Roux's  Ancient  Iraq,  which  covers  the  period  from  prehistory  through 
the  Hellenistic  period.  Another  good  source,  which  places  Sumer 
in  the  context  of  world  history,  is  J.M.  Roberts's  The  Pelican  His- 
tory of  the  World.  A  concise  and  authoritative  work  on  Shia  Islam 
is  Moojan  Momen's  An  Introduction  to  Shii  Islam.  The  article  by 
D.  Sourdel,  "The  Abbasid  Caliphate,"  in  The  Cambridge  History 
of  Islam,  provides  an  excellent  overview  of  the  medieval  period. 
Stephen  Longrigg's  and  Frank  Stoakes's  Iraq  contains  a  historical 
summary  of  events  before  independence  as  well  as  a  detailed 


65 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


account  of  the  period  from  independence  to  1958.  Majid  Khad- 
duri's  Republican  Iraq  is  one  of  the  best  studies  of  Iraqi  politics  from 
the  1958  revolution  to  the  Baath  coup  of  1968.  His  Socialist  Iraq: 
A  Study  in  Iraqi  Politics  since  1968  details  events  up  to  1977.  A  semi- 
nal work  on  Iraqi  socioeconomic  movements  and  trends  between 
the  Ottoman  period  and  the  late  1970s  is  Hanna  Batatu's  The  Old 
Social  Classes  and  the  Revolutionary  Movements  of  Iraq.  The  most  com- 
prehensive study  of  Iraq  in  the  modern  period  is  Phebe  Marr's 
The  Modern  History  of  Iraq.  Another  good  study,  which  focuses  on 
the  political  and  the  economic  development  of  Iraq  from  its  foun- 
dation as  a  state  until  1977,  is  Edith  and  E.F.  Penrose's  Iraq:  Inter- 
national Relations  and  National  Development.  An  excellent  recent  account 
of  the  Iraqi  Baath  is  provided  by  Christine  Helms 's  Iraq,  Eastern 
Flank  of  the  Arab  World.  (For  further  information  and  complete 
citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


66 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Reed  huts  in  the  marshes  of  southern  Iraq 


IRAQI  SOCIETY  IS  COMPOSED  of  sizable  and  distinct  social 
groups  with  differences  and  divisions  that  have  been  only  slowly 
and  fitfully  challenged  by  the  emergence  of  a  strong,  centralized 
political  regime  and  a  state  apparatus.  There  are,  moreover, 
regional  and  environmental  differences  between  the  scattered  moun- 
tain villages  for  which  the  economic  base  is  rain-fed  grain  crops 
and  the  more  densely  populated  riverine  communities  to  the  south 
that  depend  on  intricate  irrigation  and  drainage  systems  for  their 
livelihood. 

There  are  also  linguistic  and  ethnic  differences.  The  most  impor- 
tant exception  to  the  Arab  character  of  Iraq  is  the  large  Kurdish 
minority,  estimated  at  19  percent  of  the  population,  or  3,092,820, 
in  1987.  According  to  official  government  statistics,  Turkomans 
and  other  Turkic-speaking  peoples  account  for  only  2  to  3  percent 
of  the  population.  There  was  previously  a  large  Iranian  popula- 
tion settled  around  the  Shia  (see  Glossary)  holy  cities  of  Karbala 
and  An  Najaf,  and  the  southern  port  city  of  Basra;  this  element 
was  largely  expelled  by  government  decree  in  1971-72  and  in 
1979-80;  by  1987  only  an  estimated  133,000  of  the  Iranian  popu- 
lation remained. 

Divisions  along  religious  lines  are  deep-rooted.  Although  at  least 
95  percent  of  Iraq's  population  is  Muslim,  the  community  is  split 
between  Sunnis  (see  Glossary)  and  Shias;  the  latter  group,  a  minor- 
ity in  the  Arab  world  as  a  whole,  constitutes  a  majority  in  Iraq. 
Of  the  non-Muslim  communities,  fragmented  Christian  sects  do 
not  constitute  more  than  1  or  2  percent,  concentrated  mainly  in 
the  governorates  of  Nineveh  and  Dahuk.  A  formerly  extensive  Jew- 
ish community  is  to  all  practical  purposes  defunct.  The  establish- 
ment of  the  State  of  Israel  in  1948  and  the  defeat  of  the  Arab  armies 
in  1948  to  1949  rendered  the  situation  of  Iraqi  Jews  untenable  and 
led  to  a  mass  exodus,  both  to  Israel  and  to  Iran,  in  1950. 

Just  before  the  Iran-Iraq  War  (1980-88),  the  sharp  cleavage 
between  the  rural  and  the  urban  communities  that  had  formerly 
characterized  Iraqi  society  had  begun  to  break  down  as  a  result  of 
policies  instituted  by  the  government.  The  war  has  accelerated  this 
process.  Large  areas  of  the  rural  south  have  been  devastated  by  con- 
tinuous fighting,  which  in  turn  has  triggered  a  massive  rural  migra- 
tion to  the  capital.  In  the  late  1980s,  Iraqi  and  foreign  observers 
agreed  that,  for  the  nation's  economic  health,  this  flight  from  the 
countryside  would  have  to  be  reversed,  and  they  anticipated  that 


69 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

the  government  would  undertake  measures  to  accomplish  this  rever- 
sal once  the  war  ended. 

Geography  and  Population 
Boundaries 

Iraq's  border  with  Iran  has  been  a  continuing  source  of  conflict, 
and  it  was  partially  responsible  for  the  outbreak  in  1980  of  the 
present  war.  The  terms  of  a  treaty  negotiated  in  1937  under  Brit- 
ish auspices  provided  that  in  one  area  of  the  Shatt  al  Arab  the 
boundary  would  be  at  the  low  water  mark  on  the  Iranian  side.  Iran 
subsequently  insisted  that  the  1937  treaty  was  imposed  on  it  by 
"British  imperialist  pressures,"  and  that  the  proper  boundary 
throughout  the  Shatt  was  the  thalweg  (midpoint).  The  matter  came 
to  a  head  in  1969,  when  Iraq,  in  effect,  told  the  Iranian  govern- 
ment that  the  Shatt  was  an  integral  part  of  Iraqi  territory  and  that 
the  waterway  might  be  closed  to  Iranian  shipping. 

Through  Algerian  mediation,  Iran  and  Iraq  agreed  in  March 
1975  to  normalize  their  relations,  and  three  months  later  they  signed 
a  treaty  known  as  the  Algiers  Agreement.  The  document  defined 
the  common  border  for  the  entire  length  of  the  Shatt  estuary  as 
the  thalweg.  To  compensate  Iraq  for  the  loss  of  what  formerly  had 
been  regarded  as  its  territory,  pockets  of  territory  along  the  moun- 
tain border  in  the  central  sector  of  its  common  boundary  with  Iran 
were  assigned  to  it.  Nonetheless,  in  September  1980,  Iraq  went 
to  war  with  Iran,  citing  among  other  complaints  the  fact  that  Iran 
had  not  turned  over  to  it  the  land  specified  in  the  Algiers  Agree- 
ment. This  problem  has  subsequently  proved  to  be  a  stumbling 
block  to  a  negotiated  settlement  of  the  ongoing  conflict. 

In  1988  the  boundary  with  Kuwait  was  another  outstanding 
problem.  It  had  been  fixed  in  a  1913  treaty  between  the  Ottoman 
Empire  and  British  officials  acting  on  behalf  of  Kuwait's  ruling 
family,  which  in  1899  had  ceded  control  over  foreign  affairs  to  Brit- 
ain. The  boundary  was  accepted  by  Iraq  when  it  became  indepen- 
dent in  1932,  but,  in  the  1960s  and  again  in  the  mid-1970s,  the 
Iraqi  government  advanced  a  claim  to  parts  of  Kuwait.  Kuwait 
made  several  representations  to  the  Iraqis  during  the  Iran-Iraq  War 
to  fix  the  border  once  and  for  all,  but  Baghdad  has  repeatedly 
demurred,  claiming  that  the  issue  is  a  potentially  divisive  one  that 
could  enflame  nationalist  sentiment  inside  Iraq.  Hence,  in  early 
1988,  it  was  likely  that  a  solution  would  have  to  wait  until  the  war 
ended. 

In  1922  British  officials  concluded  the  Treaty  of  Mohammara 
with  Abd  al  Aziz  ibn  Abd  ar  Rahman  Al  Saud,  who  in  1932  formed 


70 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia.  The  treaty  provided  the  basic  agree- 
ment for  the  boundary  between  the  eventually  independent  nations. 
Also  in  1922,  the  two  parties  agreed  to  the  creation  of  the  diamond- 
shaped  Iraq-Saudi  Arabia  Neutral  Zone  of  approximately  3,520 
square  kilometers  adjacent  to  the  western  tip  of  Kuwait  in  which 
neither  Iraq  nor  Saudi  Arabia  would  build  permanent  dwellings 
or  installations  (see  fig.  1).  Beduins  from  either  country  could  uti- 
lize the  limited  water  and  seasonal  grazing  resources  of  the  zone. 
In  April  1975,  an  agreement  signed  in  Baghdad  fixed  the  borders 
of  the  countries.  Despite  a  rumored  agreement  providing  for  the 
formal  division  of  the  Neutral  Zone,  as  of  early  1988  such  a  docu- 
ment had  not  been  published.  Instead,  Saudi  Arabia  was  continu- 
ing to  control  oil  wells  in  the  offshore  Neutral  Zone  and  had  been 
allocating  proceeds  from  Neutral  Zone  oil  sales  to  Iraq  as  a  contri- 
bution to  the  war  costs. 

Major  Geographical  Features 

Most  geographers,  including  those  of  the  Iraqi  government,  dis- 
cuss the  country's  geography  in  terms  of  four  main  zones  or  regions: 
the  desert  in  the  west  and  southwest;  the  rolling  upland  between 
the  upper  Tigris  and  Euphrates  rivers  (in  Arabic,  the  Dijlis  and 
Furat,  respectively);  the  highlands  in  the  north  and  in  the  north- 
east; and  the  central  and  southeastern  alluvial  plain  through  which 
the  Tigris  and  Euphrates  flow  (see  fig.  5).  Iraq's  total  land  area 
is  variously  given  as  433,970  and  437,520  square  kilometers. 

The  desert  zone,  an  area  lying  west  and  southwest  of  the 
Euphrates  River,  is  a  part  of  the  Syrian  Desert,  which  covers  sec- 
tions of  Syria,  Jordan,  and  Saudi  Arabia.  The  region,  sparsely 
inhabited  by  pastoral  nomads,  consists  of  a  wide,  stony  plain  inter- 
spersed with  rare  sandy  stretches.  A  widely  ramified  pattern  of 
wadis — watercourses  that  are  dry  most  of  the  year — runs  from  the 
border  to  the  Euphrates.  Some  wadis  are  more  than  400  kilome- 
ters long,  and  they  carry  brief  but  torrential  floods  during  the  winter 
rains. 

The  uplands  region,  between  the  Tigris  north  of  Samarra  and 
the  Euphrates  north  of  Hit,  is  known  as  Al  Jazirah  (Arabic  for  the 
island),  and  it  is  part  of  a  larger  area  that  extends  westward  into 
Syria,  between  the  two  rivers,  and  into  Turkey.  Water  in  the  area 
flows  in  deeply  cut  valleys,  and  irrigation  is  much  more  difficult 
than  it  is  in  the  lower  plain.  Much  of  this  zone  may  be  classified 
as  desert. 

The  northeastern  highlands  begin  just  south  of  a  line  drawn  from 
Mosul  to  Kirkuk,  and  they  extend  to  Iraq's  borders  with  Turkey 
and  Iran.  High  ground,  separated  by  broad,  undulating  steppes, 


71 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  5.  Topography  and  Drainage 


gives  way  to  mountains  ranging  from  1 ,000  to  nearly  4,000  meters 
near  the  Iranian  and  Turkish  borders.  Except  for  a  few  valleys, 
the  mountain  area  proper  is  suitable  only  for  grazing  in  the  foothills 


72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


and  steppes;  adequate  soil  and  rainfall,  however,  make  cultivation 
possible.  Here,  too,  are  the  great  oil  fields  near  Mosul  and  Kirkuk. 
The  northeast  is  the  homeland  of  most  Iraqi  Kurds. 


73 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

The  alluvial  plain  begins  north  of  Baghdad  and  extends  to  the 
Persian  Gulf.  Here  the  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates  rivers  lie  above 
the  level  of  the  plain  in  many  places,  and  the  whole  area  is  a  delta 
interlaced  by  the  channels  of  the  two  rivers  and  by  irrigation  canals. 
Intermittent  lakes,  fed  by  the  rivers  in  flood,  also  characterize 
southeastern  Iraq.  A  fairly  large  area  (15,000  square  kilometers) 
just  above  the  confluence  of  the  two  rivers  at  Al  Qurnah  and 
extending  east  of  the  Tigris  beyond  the  Iranian  border  is  marsh- 
land, known  as  Hawr  al  Hammar,  the  result  of  centuries  of  flood- 
ing and  inadequate  drainage.  Much  of  it  is  permanent  marsh,  but 
some  parts  dry  out  in  early  winter,  and  other  parts  become  marsh- 
land only  in  years  of  great  flood. 

Because  the  waters  of  the  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates  above  their 
confluence  are  heavily  silt  laden,  irrigation  and  fairly  frequent  flood- 
ing deposit  large  quantities  of  silty  loam  in  much  of  the  delta  area. 
Windborne  silt  also  contributes  to  the  total  deposit  of  sediments. 
It  has  been  estimated  that  the  delta  plains  are  built  up  at  the  rate 
of  nearly  twenty  centimeters  in  a  century.  In  some  areas,  major 
floods  lead  to  the  deposit  in  temporary  lakes  of  as  much  as  thirty 
centimeters  of  mud. 

The  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates  also  carry  large  quantities  of  salts. 
These,  too,  are  spread  on  the  land  by  flooding  and  by  sometimes 
excessive  irrigation.  A  high  water  table  and  poor  surface  and  sub- 
surface drainage  tend  to  concentrate  the  salts  near  the  surface  of 
the  soil.  In  general,  the  salinity  of  the  soil  increases  from  Baghdad 
south  to  the  Persian  Gulf,  a  condition  which  severely  limits  produc- 
tivity in  the  region  south  of  Al  Amarah.  The  high  degree  of  salinity 
is  reflected  in  the  large  lake  in  central  Iraq,  southwest  of  Bagh- 
dad, known  as  Bahr  al  Milh  (Sea  of  Salt).  There  are  two  other  major 
lakes  in  the  country  to  the  north  of  Bahr  al  Milh,  Buhayrat  ath 
Tharthar  and  Buhayrat  al  Habbaniyah. 

The  Euphrates  originates  in  Turkey,  is  augmented  by  the  Nahr 
al  Khabur  (or  Khabur  River)  in  Syria,  and  enters  Iraq  in  the  north- 
west. Here  it  is  fed  only  by  the  wadis  of  the  western  desert  during 
the  winter  rains.  It  then  winds  through  a  gorge,  which  varies  from 
two  to  sixteen  kilometers  in  width,  until  it  flows  out  onto  the  plain 
at  Ar  Ramadi.  Beyond  there  the  Euphrates  continues  to  the  Hin- 
diyah  Barrage,  which  was  constructed  in  1914  to  divert  the  river 
into  the  Hindiyah  Channel  (the  present-day  Shatt  al  Hillah  had 
been  the  main  channel  of  the  Euphrates  before  1914).  Below  Al 
Kifl,  the  river  follows  two  channels  to  As  Samawah,  where  it  reap- 
pears as  a  single  channel  to  join  the  Tigris  at  Al  Qurnah. 

The  Tigris  also  rises  in  Turkey,  but  it  is  significantly  augmented 
by  several  rivers  in  Iraq,  the  most  important  of  which  are  the 


74 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Khabur,  the  Great  Zab,  the  Little  Zab,  and  the  Uzaym,  all  of  which 
join  the  Tigris  above  Baghdad,  and  the  Diyala,  which  joins  it  about 
thirty-six  kilometers  below  the  city.  At  the  Kut  Barrage  much  of 
the  water  is  diverted  into  the  Shatt  al  Gharraf,  which  was  once  the 
main  channel  of  the  Tigris.  Water  from  the  Tigris  thus  enters  the 
Euphrates  through  the  Shatt  al  Gharraf  well  above  the  confluence 
of  the  two  main  channels  at  Al  Qurnah. 

Both  the  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates  break  into  a  number  of  channels 
in  the  marshland  area,  and  the  flow  of  the  rivers  is  substantially 
reduced  by  the  time  they  come  together  at  Al  Qurnah.  Moreover, 
the  swamps  act  as  silt  traps,  and  the  Shatt  al  Arab  is  relatively  silt 
free  as  it  flows  south.  Below  Basra,  however,  the  Karun  River  enters 
the  Shatt  al  Arab  from  Iran,  carrying  large  quantities  of  silt  that 
present  a  continuous  dredging  problem  in  maintaining  a  clear  chan- 
nel to  enable  ocean-going  vessels  to  reach  the  port  at  Basra.  This 
problem  has  been  superseded  by  a  greater  obstacle  to  river  traffic, 
however,  namely  the  presence  of  several  sunken  hulks  that  have  been 
rusting  in  the  Shatt  al  Arab  since  early  in  the  war. 

The  waters  of  the  Tigris  and  Euphrates  are  essential  to  the  life 
of  the  country,  but  they  may  also  threaten  it.  The  rivers  are  at 
their  lowest  level  in  September  and  in  October  and  are  at  flood 
in  March,  April,  and  May,  when  they  may  carry  forty  times  as 
much  water  as  at  low  mark.  Moreover,  one  season's  flood  may 
be  ten  or  more  times  as  great  as  another's.  In  1954,  for  example, 
Baghdad  was  seriously  threatened,  and  dikes  protecting  it  were 
nearly  topped  by  the  flooding  Tigris.  Since  Syria  built  a  dam  on 
the  Euphrates,  the  flow  of  water  has  been  considerably  diminished, 
and  flooding  was  no  longer  a  problem  in  the  mid-1980s.  In  1988 
Turkey  was  also  constructing  a  dam  on  the  Euphrates  that  would 
further  restrict  the  water  flow. 

Until  the  mid- twentieth  century,  most  efforts  to  control  the  waters 
were  primarily  concerned  with  irrigation.  Some  attention  was  given 
to  problems  of  flood  control  and  drainage  before  the  July  14  Revo- 
lution in  1958,  but  development  plans  in  the  1960s  and  the  1970s 
were  increasingly  devoted  to  these  matters,  as  well  as  to  irrigation 
projects  on  the  upper  reaches  of  the  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates  and 
the  tributaries  of  the  Tigris  in  the  northeast.  During  the  war, 
government  officials  stressed  to  foreign  visitors  that,  with  the  con- 
clusion of  a  peace  settlement,  problems  of  irrigation  and  flooding 
would  receive  top  priority  from  the  government. 

Settlement  Patterns 

In  the  rural  areas  of  the  alluvial  plain  and  in  the  lower  Diyala 
region,  settlement  almost  invariably  clusters  near  the  rivers, 


75 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

streams,  and  irrigation  canals.  The  bases  of  the  relationship  between 
watercourse  and  settlement  have  been  summarized  by  Robert 
McCormick  Adams,  director  of  the  Oriental  Institute  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Chicago.  He  notes  that  the  levees  laid  down  by  streams  and 
by  canals  provide  advantages  for  both  settlement  and  agriculture. 
Surface  water  drains  more  easily  on  the  levees'  backslope,  and  the 
coarse  soils  of  the  levees  are  easier  to  cultivate  and  permit  better 
subsurface  drainage.  The  height  of  the  levees  gives  some  protec- 
tion against  floods  and  the  frost  that  often  affect  low-lying  areas 
and  may  kill  winter  crops.  Above  all,  those  living  or  cultivating 
on  the  crest  of  a  levee  have  easy  access  to  water  for  irrigation  and 
for  household  use  in  a  dry,  hot  country. 

Although  there  are  some  isolated  homesteads,  most  rural  com- 
munities are  nucleated  settiements  rather  than  dispersed  farmsteads; 
that  is,  the  farmer  leaves  his  village  to  cultivate  the  fields  outside 
it.  The  pattern  holds  for  farming  communities  in  the  Kurdish  high- 
lands of  the  northeast  as  well  as  for  those  in  the  alluvial  plain.  The 
size  of  the  settlement  varies,  generally  with  the  volume  of  water 
available  for  household  use  and  with  the  amount  of  land  accessi- 
ble to  village  dwellers.  Sometimes,  particularly  in  the  lower  Tigris 
and  Euphrates  valleys,  soil  salinity  restricts  the  area  of  arable  land 
and  limits  the  size  of  the  community  dependent  upon  it,  and  it  also 
usually  results  in  large  unsettled  and  uncultivated  stretches  between 
the  villages. 

Fragmentary  information  suggests  that  most  farmers  in  the 
alluvial  plain  tend  to  live  in  villages  of  more  than  100  persons.  For 
example,  in  the  mid-1970s  a  substantial  number  of  the  residents 
of  Baqubah,  the  administrative  center  and  major  city  of  Diyala 
Governorate,  were  employed  in  agriculture. 

The  Marsh  Arabs  (the  Madan)  of  the  south  usually  live  in  small 
clusters  of  two  or  three  houses  kept  above  water  by  rushes  that  are 
constantly  being  replenished.  Such  clusters  often  are  close  together, 
but  access  from  one  to  another  is  possible  only  by  small  boat.  Here 
and  there  a  few  natural  islands  permit  slightly  larger  clusters.  Some 
of  these  people  are  primarily  water  buffalo  herders,  and  they  lead 
a  seminomadic  life.  In  the  winter,  when  the  waters  are  at  a  low 
point,  they  build  fairly  large  temporary  villages;  in  the  summer, 
they  move  their  herds  out  of  the  marshes  to  the  river  banks. 

The  war  has  had  its  effect  on  the  lives  of  these  denizens  of  the 
marshes.  With  much  of  the  fighting  concentrated  in  their  areas, 
they  have  either  migrated  to  settled  communities  away  from  the 
marshes  or  have  been  forced  by  government  decree  to  relocate 
within  the  marshes.  Also,  in  early  1988,  the  marshes  had  become 
the  refuge  of  deserters  from  the  Iraqi  army,  who  attempted  to 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


maintain  life  in  the  fastness  of  these  overgrown,  desolate  areas  while 
hiding  out  from  the  authorities.  These  deserters  in  many  instances 
have  formed  into  large  gangs  that  raid  the  marsh  communities. 
For  this  reason,  many  of  the  marsh  dwellers  have  abandoned  their 
villages. 

The  war  has  also  affected  settlement  patterns  in  the  northern 
Kurdish  areas.  There,  the  persistence  of  a  stubborn  rebellion  by 
Kurdish  guerrillas  has  goaded  the  government  into  applying  steadily 
escalating  violence  against  the  local  communities.  Starting  in  1984, 
the  government  launched  a  scorched-earth  campaign  to  drive  a 
wedge  between  the  villagers  and  the  guerrillas  in  the  remote  areas 
of  two  provinces  of  Kurdistan  in  which  Kurdish  guerrillas  were 
active.  In  the  process,  whole  villages  were  torched  and  subsequently 
bulldozed,  which  resulted  in  the  Kurds'  flocking  into  the  regional 
centers  of  Irbil  and  As  Sulaymaniyah.  Also  as  a  military  precau- 
tion, the  government  has  cleared  a  broad  strip  of  territory  in  the 
Kurdish  region  along  the  Iranian  border  of  all  its  inhabitants,  hop- 
ing in  this  way  to  interdict  the  movement  of  Kurdish  guerrillas  back 
and  forth  between  Iran  and  Iraq.  The  majority  of  Kurdish  villages, 
however,  remained  intact  in  early  1988. 

In  the  arid  areas  of  Iraq  to  the  west  and  to  the  south,  cities  and 
large  towns  are  almost  invariably  situated  on  watercourses,  usually 
on  the  major  rivers  or  their  larger  tributaries.  In  the  south,  this 
dependence  has  had  its  disadvantages.  Until  the  recent  develop- 
ment of  flood  control,  Baghdad  and  other  cities  were  subject  to 
the  threat  of  inundation.  The  dikes  needed  for  protection,  moreover, 
have  effectively  prevented  the  expansion  of  the  urban  areas  in  some 
directions.  The  growth  of  Baghdad,  for  example,  was  restricted 
by  dikes  on  its  eastern  edge.  The  diversion  of  water  to  the  Milhat 
ath  Tharthar  and  the  construction  of  a  canal  transferring  water 
from  the  Tigris  north  of  Baghdad  to  the  Diyala  River  have  facili- 
tated both  the  irrigation  of  land  outside  the  limits  of  the  dikes  and 
the  expansion  of  settlement. 

Climate 

Roughly  90  percent  of  the  annual  rainfall  occurs  between  Novem- 
ber and  April,  most  of  it  in  the  winter  months  from  December 
through  March.  The  remaining  six  months,  particularly  the  hot- 
test ones  of  June,  July,  and  August,  are  dry. 

Except  in  the  north  and  in  the  northeast,  mean  annual  rainfall 
ranges  between  ten  and  seventeen  centimeters.  Data  available  from 
stations  in  the  foothills  and  in  the  steppes  south  and  southwest  of 
the  mountains  suggest  that  there  is  mean  annual  rainfall  of  between 
thirty- two  and  fifty- seven  centimeters  for  that  area.  Rainfall  in  the 


77 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

mountains  is  more  abundant  and  may  reach  100  centimeters  a  year 
in  some  places,  but  the  terrain  precludes  extensive  cultivation.  Cul- 
tivation on  nonirrigated  land  is  limited  essentially  to  the  moun- 
tain valleys,  foothills,  and  steppes,  which  have  thirty  or  more 
centimeters  of  rainfall  annually.  Even  in  this  zone,  however,  only 
one  crop  a  year  can  be  grown,  and  shortages  of  rain  have  often 
led  to  crop  failures. 

Mean  minimum  temperatures  in  the  winter  range  from  near 
freezing  (just  before  dawn)  in  the  northern  and  northeastern  foothills 
and  the  western  desert  to  2°C-3°C  and  4°C-5°C  in  the  alluvial 
plains  of  southern  Iraq.  They  rise  to  a  mean  maximum  of  about 
15.5°C  in  the  western  desert  and  in  the  northeast  and  of  16.6°C 
in  the  south.  In  the  summer  mean  minimum  temperatures  range 
from  about  22.2°C  to  about  29°C  and  rise  to  maximums  between 
roughly  37.7°C  and  43.3°C.  Temperatures  sometimes  fall  below 
freezing,  and  they  have  fallen  as  low  as  -14.4°C  at  Ar  Rutbah 
in  the  western  desert.  They  are  more  likely,  however,  to  go  over 
46°C  in  the  summer  months,  and  several  stations  have  records  of 
more  than  48°C. 

The  summer  months  are  marked  by  two  kinds  of  wind.  The 
southerly  and  southeasterly  sharqi,  a  dry,  dusty  wind  with  occa- 
sional gusts  of  eighty  kilometers  an  hour,  occurs  from  April  to  early 
June  and  again  from  late  September  through  November.  It  may 
last  for  only  a  day  at  the  beginning  and  at  the  end  of  the  season 
but  for  several  days  at  other  times.  This  wind  is  often  accompa- 
nied by  violent  duststorms  that  may  rise  to  heights  of  several  thou- 
sand meters  and  that  may  close  airports  for  brief  periods.  From 
mid-June  to  mid-September,  the  prevailing  wind,  called  the  shamal, 
is  from  the  north  and  northwest.  It  is  a  steady  wind,  absent  only 
occasionally  during  this  period.  The  very  dry  air  brought  by  this 
shamal  permits  intensive  heating  of  the  land  surface  by  the  sun, 
but  the  breeze  has  some  cooling  effect. 

The  combination  of  rain  shortage  and  extreme  heat  makes  much 
of  Iraq  a  desert.  Because  of  very  high  rates  of  evaporation,  soil 
and  plants  rapidly  lose  the  little  moisture  obtained  from  the  rain, 
and  vegetation  could  not  survive  without  extensive  irrigation.  Some 
areas,  however,  although  arid,  do  have  natural  vegetation  in  con- 
trast to  the  desert.  For  example,  in  the  Zagros  Mountains  in  north- 
eastern Iraq  there  is  permanent  vegetation,  such  as  oak  trees,  and 
date  palms  are  found  in  the  south. 

Population 

Although  a  census  occurred  in  late  1987,  only  overall  popula- 
tion totals  and  some  estimates  were  available  in  early  1988.  The 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

latest  detailed  census  information  was  that  from  the  1977  census. 
The  total  population  increased  from  12,029,000  in  1977  to 
16,278,000  in  1987,  an  increase  of  35.3  percent. 

The  population  has  fluctuated  considerably  over  the  region's  long 
history.  Between  the  eighth  century  and  the  twelfth  century  A.D. , 
Iraq — particularly  Baghdad — was  the  flourishing  center  of  a  bur- 
geoning Arab  civilization.  At  the  height  of  the  region's  prosperity 
it  may  have  supported  a  population  much  larger  than  the  present 
society.  (Some  estimates  range  as  high  as  15  to  29  million  people.) 
Decline  came  swiftly  in  the  late  thirteenth  century,  however,  when 
Mongol  conquerors  massacred  the  populace,  destroyed  the  cities, 
and  ravaged  the  countryside.  The  elaborate  irrigation  system  that 
had  made  possible  agricultural  production  capable  of  supporting 
a  large  population  was  left  in  ruins. 

A  pattern  of  alternating  neglect  and  oppression  characterized  the 
Ottoman  rule  that  began  in  the  sixteenth  century,  and  for  hundreds 
of  years  the  three  wilayat  (sing.,  wilayah,  province)  of  Baghdad,  Al 
Basrah,  and  Mosul — which  the  British  joined  to  form  Iraq  in  the 
aftermath  of  World  War  I — remained  underpopulated  backward 
outposts  of  the  Ottoman  Empire.  In  the  mid- 1800s,  the  area  had 
fewer  than  1.3  million  inhabitants. 

When  Iraq  became  independent  in  1932,  the  departing  British 
officials  estimated  the  population  at  about  3.5  million.  The  first 
census  was  carried  out  in  1947;  it  showed  a  population  of  approxi- 
mately 4.8  million.  The  1957  census  gave  a  population  figure  of 
about  6.3  million,  and  the  1965  census  returned  a  count  of  slightly 
above  8  million. 

The  October  1977  census  gave  the  annual  rate  of  population 
growth  as  3.2  percent.  According  to  the  October  1987  census,  the 
annual  population  growth  rate  was  3.1  percent,  which  placed  Iraq 
among  those  countries  with  high  population  growth  rates  (2.8  to 
3.5  percent  per  year).  In  common  with  many  developing  coun- 
tries, Iraq's  population  was  young;  in  1987  approximately  57  per- 
cent of  the  population  was  under  the  age  of  twenty.  The  government 
has  never  sought  to  implement  a  birth  control  program,  a  policy 
reinforced  by  the  war  in  order  to  offset  losses  in  the  fighting  and 
to  mitigate  the  threat  from  Iran,  the  population  of  which  is  roughly 
three  times  that  of  Iraq  (see  fig.  6). 

In  1977  about  64  percent  of  the  population  was  listed  as  living 
in  urban  areas;  this  was  a  marked  change  from  1965,  when  only 
44  percent  resided  in  urban  centers.  In  the  1987  government  esti- 
mates, the  urban  population  was  given  as  70  percent.  The  increase 
resulted  in  large  measure  from  the  migrations  to  the  cities  after 
the  start  of  the  war.  The  partial  destruction  of  Basra  by  Iranian 


79 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


AGE-GROUP 


1.5  750  0  750  1.5 


POPULATION  IN  THOUSANDS 


Figure  6.  Estimated  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex,  1987 

artillery  barrages  has  had  a  particularly  devastating  effect;  by  1988, 
according  to  some  well  informed  accounts,  almost  half  the  residents 
of  the  city — its  population  formerly  estimated  at  800,000 — had  fled. 
At  the  same  time,  approximately  95,000  persons  were  identified 
in  the  1977  census  as  nomadic  or  seminomadic  beduins;  the 
apparent  increase  from  the  57,000  listed  in  the  1957  census  prob- 
ably reflects  either  an  improved  counting  procedure  or  a  change 
in  classification.  Overall,  nomads  and  seminomads  constituted  less 
than  1  percent  of  the  population,  whereas  in  1867  they  had  been 
estimated  at  about  500,000  or  35  percent  of  the  population  (see 
table  2,  Appendix). 

The  population  remains  unevenly  distributed.  In  1987  the  Bagh- 
dad Governorate  had  a  population  density  of  about  745  persons 
per  square  kilometer;  the  Babylon  Governorate,  of  21 1  persons  per 
square  kilometer;  and  the  Al  Muthanna  Governorate,  of  only 
6.1  persons  per  square  kilometer.  In  general  the  major  cities  are 
located  on  the  nation's  rivers,  and  the  bulk  of  the  rural  population 
lives  in  the  areas  that  are  cultivated  with  water  taken  from  the  rivers 
(see  table  3,  Appendix). 

People 

Although  the  data  are  not  absolutely  reliable,  the  government 


80 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


estimates  that  76  percent  of  the  people  are  Arab;  19  percent  are 
Kurds;  while  Turkomans,  Assyrians,  Armenians,  and  other  rela- 
tively small  groups  make  up  the  rest.  All  but  a  small  percentage 
adhere  to  Islam.  The  Islamic  component  is  split  into  two  main  sects, 
Sunni  and  Shia;  the  Shias  are  in  the  majority  by  far.  Officially  the 
government  sets  the  number  of  Shias  at  55  percent.  In  the  1980s, 
knowledgeable  observers  began  to  question  this  figure,  regarding 
it  as  low.  Because  the  government  does  not  encourage  birth  con- 
trol and  the  Shias,  the  least  affluent  in  society,  have  traditionally 
had  the  highest  birthrate,  a  more  reasonable  estimate  of  their  num- 
bers would  seem  to  be  between  60  and  65  percent.  All  but  a  few 
of  the  estimated  3,088,000  Kurds  are  Sunni,  and  thus  the  Sunni 
Arabs — who  historically  have  been  the  dominant  religious  and  eth- 
nic group — constitute  a  decided  minority  of  only  about  13  percent 
vis-a-vis  the  Shia  majority  (see  fig.  7). 

Almost  all  Iraqis  speak  at  least  some  Arabic,  the  mother  tongue 
for  the  Arab  majority.  Arabic,  one  of  the  more  widely  spoken  lan- 
guages in  the  world,  is  the  mother  tongue  claimed  in  1988  by  over 
177  million  people  from  Morocco  to  the  Arabian  Sea.  One  of  the 
Semitic  languages,  it  is  related  to  Aramaic,  Phoenician,  Syriac, 
Hebrew,  various  Ethiopic  languages,  and  the  Akkadian  of  ancient 
Babylonia  and  Assyria. 

Throughout  the  Arab  world,  the  language  exists  in  three  forms: 
the  Classical  Arabic  of  the  Quran;  the  literary  language  developed 
from  the  classical  and  referred  to  as  Modern  Standard  Arabic,  which 
has  virtually  the  same  structure  wherever  used;  and  the  spoken  lan- 
guage, which  in  Iraq  is  Iraqi  Arabic.  Educated  Arabs  tend  to  be 
bilingual — in  Modern  Standard  Arabic  and  in  their  own  dialect 
of  spoken  Arabic.  Even  uneducated  Arabic  speakers,  who  in  Iraq 
constitute  about  60  percent  of  the  population,  can  comprehend  the 
meaning  of  something  said  in  Modern  Standard  Arabic,  although 
they  are  unable  to  speak  it.  Classical  Arabic,  apart  from  Quranic 
texts,  is  known  chiefly  to  scholarly  specialists. 

Most  of  the  words  of  Arabic's  rich  and  extensive  vocabulary  are 
variations  of  triconsonantal  roots,  each  of  which  has  a  basic  mean- 
ing. The  sounds  of  Arabic  are  also  rich  and  varied;  they  include 
some  made  in  the  throat  and  back  of  the  larynx  which  do  not  occur 
in  the  major  Indo-European  languages.  Structurally  there  are 
important  differences  between  Modern  Standard  Arabic  and  spoken 
Arabic,  such  as  the  behavior  of  the  verb:  the  voice  and  the  tense 
of  the  verb  are  indicated  by  different  internal  changes  in  the  two 
forms.  In  general  the  grammar  of  spoken  Arabic  is  simpler  than 
that  of  Modern  Standard  Arabic,  having  dropped  many  noun 
declensions  and  different  forms  of  the  relative  pronoun  for  the 


81 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


MAJORITY  GROUPS 

WM  Sunn,  Arab 
KXX A  Sunn  I  Kurd 
II  I  II  Sh.a  Arab 

Sunni  Arab  and  Sunni  Kurd 
Efc&jil  Sunni  Arab  and  Sh,o  Arab 

MINORITY  GROUPS 

m  Yazidi  t  Chrisf.an 

O  Turkoman 


Figure  7.  Ethnic  and  Religious  Distribution,  1988 


different  genders.  Some  dialects  of  spoken  Arabic  do  not  use  spe- 
cial feminine  forms  of  plural  verbs. 

Dialects  of  spoken  Arabic  vary  greatly  throughout  the  Arab 
world.  Most  Iraqis  speak  one  common  to  Syria,  Lebanon,  and  parts 
of  Jordan  and — as  is  true  of  people  speaking  other  dialects — they 
proudly  regard  theirs  as  the  best.  Although  they  converse  in  Iraqi 
Arabic,  there  is  general  agreement  that  Modern  Standard  Arabic, 
the  written  language,  is  superior  to  the  spoken  form.  Arabs  gener- 
ally believe  that  the  speech  of  the  beduins  resembles  the  pure  clas- 
sical form  most  closely  and  that  the  dialects  used  by  the  settled 
villagers  and  townspeople  are  unfortunate  corruptions. 

Kurds 

Kurds  represent  by  far  the  largest  non-Arab  ethnic  minority, 
numbering  about  3.1  million  in  1987.  They  are  the  overwhelming 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


majority  in  the  governorates  of  As  Sulaymaniyah,  Irbil,  and  Dahuk. 
Although  the  government  hotly  denies  it,  the  Kurds  are  almost  cer- 
tainly also  a  majority  in  the  region  around  Kirkuk,  Iraq's  richest 
oil-producing  area.  Kurds  are  settled  as  far  south  as  Khanaqin. 
Ranging  across  northern  Iraq,  the  Kurds  are  part  of  the  larger 
Kurdish  population  (probably  numbering  close  to  16  million)  that 
inhabits  the  wide  arc  from  eastern  Turkey  and  the  northwestern 
part  of  Syria  through  Soviet  Azarbaijan  and  Iraq  to  the  northwest 
of  the  Zagros  Mountains  in  Iran.  Although  the  largest  numbers 
(variously  estimated  at  between  3  and  10  million)  live  in  Turkey, 
they  are  most  active  politically  in  Iraq. 

The  Kurds  inhabit  the  highlands  and  mountain  valleys,  and  tradi- 
tionally they  have  been  organized  on  a  tribal  basis.  In  the  past, 
it  was  correct  to  distinguish  the  various  communities  of  Kurds 
according  to  their  tribal  affiliation.  To  a  large  extent  this  was  still 
true  in  the  1980s;  tribes  like  the  Herkki,  the  Sorchi,  and  the  Zibari 
have  maintained  a  powerful  cohesion.  Increasingly,  however, 
groups  of  Kurds  organized  along  political  lines  have  grown  up 
alongside  the  tribal  units.  Hence,  the  most  northern  and  north- 
eastern areas  of  Iraq  are  heavily  infiltrated  by  elements  of  the 
so-called  Kurdish  Democratic  Party  (KDP — see  The  Emergence 
of  Saddam  Hasayn,  1968-79,  ch.  1).  The  area  surrounding  Kirkuk 
and  extending  south  to  Khanaqin  is  the  preserve  of  the  Faili  Kurds, 
who,  unlike  the  majority  of  Kurds,  are  Shias.  Many  of  the  Faili 
Kurds  belong  to  the  Patriotic  Union  of  Kurdistan  (PUK).  The  far 
northwestern  region  of  Iraq  around  Sinjar  is  spotted  with  enclaves 
claimed  by  the  Iraqi  Communist  Party  (ICP),  and  the  majority 
of  its  cadres  are  composed  of  Kurds. 

Once  mainly  nomadic  or  seminomadic,  Kurdish  society  was 
characterized  by  a  combination  of  urban  centers,  villages,  and 
pastoral  tribes,  from  at  least  the  Ottoman  period.  Historical  sources 
indicate  that,  from  the  eighteenth  century  onward,  Kurds  in  Iraq 
were  mainly  peasants  engaged  in  agriculture  and  arboriculture. 
By  the  nineteenth  century,  about  20  percent  of  Iraqi  Kurds  lived 
in  historic  Kurdish  cities  such  as  Kirkuk,  As  Sulaymaniyah,  and 
Irbil.  The  migration  to  the  cities,  particularly  of  the  young  intel- 
ligentsia, helped  develop  Kurdish  nationalism. 

Since  the  early  1960s,  the  urban  Kurdish  areas  have  grown 
rapidly.  Kurdish  migration — in  addition  to  being  part  of  the  general 
trend  of  urban  migration — was  prompted  by  the  escalating  armed 
conflict  with  the  central  authorities  in  Baghdad,  the  destruction 
of  villages  and  land  by  widespread  bombing,  and  such  natural 
disasters  as  a  severe  drought  in  the  1958  to  1961  period.  In  addi- 
tion to  destroying  traditional  resources,  the  severe  fighting  has 


83 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

hindered  the  development  of  education,  health,  and  other  ser- 
vices. 

The  historic  enmity  between  the  Kurds  and  the  central  Arab 
government  has  contributed  to  the  tenacious  survival  of  Kurdish 
culture.  The  Kurds'  most  distinguishing  characteristic,  and  the  one 
that  binds  them  to  one  another,  is  their  language.  There  are  several 
Kurdish  dialects,  of  which  Kirmanji  (also  seen  as  Karamanji)  tends 
to  be  the  standard  written  form  as  well  as  the  language  spoken  by 
the  northern  group  of  Kurds  (Kurdi  or  Sorani  is  spoken  by  the 
central  group  of  Kurds.)  Kurdish  is  not  a  mere  dialect  of  Farsi  or 
Persian,  as  many  Iranian  nationalists  maintain,  but  one  of  the  three 
major  Iranian  languages.  The  other  two  are  Persian  and  Pashto 
(the  Pathan  language  of  eastern  Afghanistan  and  parts  of  West 
Pakistan).  It  is  not  a  variant  of  the  Semitic  or  Turkic  tongues  but 
a  separate  language,  part  of  the  Indo-European  family. 

The  Kurds  have  been  locked  in  an  unremittingly  violent  strug- 
gle with  the  central  government  in  Baghdad  almost  since  the  found- 
ing of  the  Iraqi  republic  in  1958  (see  Internal  Developments  and 
Security,  ch.  5).  It  appeared  in  the  early  1970s  that  the  dissident 
Kurds — under  the  generalship  of  the  legendary  leader  Mullah 
Mustafa  Barzani — might  actually  carve  out  an  independent  Kurd- 
ish area  in  northern  Iraq.  In  1975,  however,  the  shah  of  Iran — 
the  Kurds'  principal  patron — withdrew  his  support  of  the  Kurds 
as  part  of  the  Algiers  Agreement  between  Tehran  and  Baghdad, 
leading  to  a  sharp  decline  in  the  Kurdish  movement.  The  signing 
of  the  Algiers  Agreement  caused  a  breakaway  faction  to  emerge 
from  the  KDP,  led  by  Masud  Barzani,  the  son  of  Mullah  Mustafa 
Barzani.  The  faction  that  left  the  KDP  in  opposition  to  the  agree- 
ment formed  the  PUK  under  Jalal  Talabani.  The  PUK  continued 
to  engage  in  low-level  guerrilla  activity  against  the  central  govern- 
ment in  the  period  from  1975  to  1980.  The  war  between  Iraq  and 
Iran  that  broke  out  in  1980  afforded  the  PUK  and  other  Iraqi  Kurd- 
ish groups  the  opportunity  to  intensify  their  opposition  to  the 
government. 

The  future  of  the  Kurds  in  Iraq  is  uncertain  because  of  the  war. 
In  1983  the  KDP  spearheaded  an  Iranian  thrust  into  northern  Iraq, 
and  later  its  cadres  fanned  out  across  the  border  area  adjacent  to 
Turkey  where  they  established  a  string  of  bases.  Meanwhile, 
Talabani 's  PUK  has  maintained  a  fighting  presence  in  the  Kirkuk 
region,  despite  ruthless  attempts  by  the  central  government  to  dis- 
lodge them.  Thus,  as  of  early  1988,  most  of  the  northern  areas  of 
Iraq — outside  the  major  cities — were  under  the  control  of  the  guer- 
rillas. On  the  one  hand,  if  the  present  government  in  Iraq  survives 
the  war — which  in  early  1988  seemed  likely — it  is  almost  certain 


84 


A  Kurd  from  Salah  ad  Din 
Courtesy  Mokhless  Al- Hariri 


to  punish  those  Kurds  who  collaborated  with  the  Iranians.  On  the 
other  hand,  a  number  of  large  and  powerful  Kurdish  tribes  as  well 
as  many  prominent  Kurds  from  nontribal  families  have  continued 
to  support  the  central  government  throughout  the  war,  fighting 
against  their  fellow  Kurds.  These  loyal  Kurds  will  expect  to  be 
rewarded  for  their  allegiance  once  the  war  ends. 

Other  Minorities 

The  Yazidis  are  of  Kurdish  stock  but  are  distinguished  by  their 
unique  religious  fusion  of  elements  of  paganism,  Zoroastrianism, 
Christianity,  and  Islam.  They  live  in  small  and  isolated  groups, 
mostly  in  the  Sihjar  Mountains  west  of  Mosul.  They  are  impover- 
ished cultivators  and  herdsmen,  who  have  a  strictly  graded 
religiopolitical  hierarchy  and  who  tend  to  maintain  a  more  closed 
community  than  other  ethnic  or  religious  groups.  Historically,  they 
have  been  subject  to  sharp  persecution  because  of  their  heretical 
beliefs  and  practices. 

The  Turkomans,  who  are  believed  to  constitute  somewhat  less 
than  2  percent  of  the  population,  are  village  dwellers  in  the  north- 
east, along  the  border  between  the  Kurdish  and  Arab  regions.  A 
number  of  Turkomans  live  in  the  city  of  Irbil.  The  Turkomans, 
who  speak  a  Turkish  dialect,  have  preserved  their  language,  but 
they  are  no  longer  tribally  organized.  Most  are  Sunnis  who  were 
brought  in  by  the  Ottomans  to  repel  tribal  raids.  These  early 


85 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Turkomans  were  settled  at  the  entrances  of  the  valleys  that  gave 
access  to  the  Kurdish  areas.  This  historic  pacification  role  has  led 
to  strained  relations  with  the  Kurds.  By  1986  the  Turkomans  num- 
bered somewhere  around  222,000,  and  they  were  being  rapidly 
assimilated  into  the  general  population. 

The  Assyrians  are  considered  to  be  the  third  largest  ethnic 
minority  in  Iraq.  Although  official  Iraqi  statistics  do  not  refer  to 
them  as  an  ethnic  group,  they  are  believed  to  represent  about 
133,000  persons,  or  less  than  1  percent  of  the  population.  Descen- 
dants of  ancient  Mesopotamian  peoples,  they  speak  Aramaic.  The 
Assyrians  live  mainly  in  the  major  cities  and  in  the  rural  areas  of 
northeastern  Iraq,  where  they  tend  to  be  professionals  and  business- 
men or  independent  farmers.  They  are  Christians,  belonging  to 
one  of  four  churches:  the  Chaldean  (Uniate),  the  Nestorian,  the 
Jacobite  or  Syrian  Orthodox,  and  the  Syrian  Catholic.  There  is 
also  a  small  number  of  Armenians. 

Religious  Life 

Although  members  of  the  ruling  Baath  (Arab  Socialist  Resur- 
rection) Party  generally  are  ideologically  committed  to  secularism, 
about  95  percent  of  Iraqis  are  Muslim,  and  Islam  is  the  officially 
recognized  state  religion.  Islam  came  to  the  region  with  the  victory 
of  the  Muslim  armies,  under  Caliph  Umar,  over  the  Sassanids, 
in  A.D.  637  at  the  battle  of  Al  Qadisiyah.  The  majority  of  inhabit- 
ants, including  the  Kurds,  soon  became  Muslim,  although  small 
communities  of  Christians  and  Jews  remained  intact  in  the  area 
of  present-day  Iraq.  Iraq  has  been  the  scene  of  many  important 
events  in  the  early  history  of  Islam,  including  the  schism  over  the 
rightful  successor  to  the  Prophet  Muhammad. 

Islam 

Islam  is  a  system  of  religious  beliefs  and  an  all-encompassing 
way  of  life.  Muslims  believe  that  God  (Allah)  revealed  to  the  Prophet 
Muhammad  the  rules  governing  society  and  the  proper  conduct 
of  society's  members.  It  is  incumbent  on  the  individual,  therefore, 
to  live  in  a  manner  prescribed  by  the  revealed  law  and  incumbent 
on  the  community  to  build  the  perfect  human  society  on  earth 
according  to  holy  injunctions.  Islam  recognizes  no  distinctions 
between  church  and  state.  The  distinction  between  religious  and 
secular  law  is  a  recent  development  that  reflects  the  more  pro- 
nounced role  of  the  state  in  society,  and  Western  economic  and 
cultural  penetration.  The  impact  of  religion  on  daily  life  in  Muslim 
countries  is  far  greater  than  that  found  in  the  West  since  the  Mid- 
dle Ages. 


86 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  Ottoman  Empire  organized  society  around  the  concept  of 
the  millet,  or  autonomous  religious  community.  The  non-Muslim 
"People  of  the  Book"  (Christians  and  Jews)  owed  taxes  to  the 
government;  in  return  they  were  permitted  to  govern  themselves 
according  to  their  own  religious  law  in  matters  that  did  not  con- 
cern Muslims.  The  religious  communities  were  thus  able  to  preserve 
a  large  measure  of  identity  and  autonomy. 

The  Iraqi  Baath  Party  has  been  a  proponent  of  secularism.  This 
attitude  has  been  maintained  despite  the  fact  that  the  majority  of 
Iraqis  are  deeply  religious.  At  the  same  time,  the  Baathists  have 
not  hesitated  to  exploit  religion  as  a  mobilizing  agent,  and  from 
the  first  months  of  the  war  with  Iran,  prominent  Baathists  have 
made  a  public  show  of  attending  religious  observances.  Iraq's  Presi- 
dent Saddam  Husayn  is  depicted  in  prayer  in  posters  displayed 
throughout  the  country.  Moreover,  the  Baath  has  provided  large 
sums  of  money  to  refurbish  important  mosques;  this  has  proved 
a  useful  tactic  in  encouraging  support  from  the  Shias. 

Islam  came  to  Iraq  by  way  of  the  Arabian  Peninsula,  where  in 
A.D.  610,  Muhammad — a  merchant  of  the  Hashimite  branch  of 
the  ruling  Quraysh  tribe  in  the  Arabian  town  of  Mecca — began 
to  preach  the  first  of  a  series  of  revelations  granted  him  by  God 
through  the  angel  Gabriel.  A  fervent  monotheist,  Muhammad 
denounced  the  polytheism  of  his  fellow  Meccans.  Because  the  town's 
economy  was  based  in  part  on  a  thriving  pilgrimage  business  to 
the  shrine  called  the  Kaaba  and  to  numerous  other  pagan  religious 
sites  in  the  area,  his  censure  earned  him  the  enmity  of  the  town's 
leaders.  In  622  he  and  a  group  of  followers  accepted  an  invitation 
to  settle  in  the  town  of  Yathrib,  later  known  as  Medina  (the  city), 
because  it  was  the  center  of  Muhammad's  activities.  The  move, 
or  hijra  (see  Glossary),  known  in  the  West  as  the  hegira,  marks 
the  beginning  of  the  Islamic  era  and  of  Islam  as  a  force  in  history; 
the  Muslim  calendar  begins  in  622.  In  Medina,  Muhammad  con- 
tinued to  preach,  and  he  eventually  defeated  his  detractors  in  bat- 
tle. He  consolidated  the  temporal  and  the  spiritual  leadership  in 
his  person  before  his  death  in  632.  After  Muhammad's  death,  his 
followers  compiled  those  of  his  words  regarded  as  coming  directly 
from  God  into  the  Quran,  the  holy  scriptures  of  Islam.  Others  of 
his  sayings  and  teachings,  recalled  by  those  who  had  known  him, 
became  the  hadith  (see  Glossary).  The  precedent  of  Muhammad's 
personal  behavior  is  called  the  sunna.  Together  they  form  a  com- 
prehensive guide  to  the  spiritual,  ethical,  and  social  life  of  the 
orthodox  Sunni  Muslim. 

The  duties  of  Muslims  form  the  five  pillars  of  Islam,  which  set 
forth  the  acts  necessary  to  demonstrate  and  reinforce  the  faith.  These 


87 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

are  the  recitation  of  the  shahada  ("There  is  no  God  but  God  [Allah], 
and  Muhammad  is  his  prophet"),  daily  prayer  (salat),  almsgiving 
(zakat),  fasting  (sawm),  and  pilgrimage  (hajj).  The  believer  is  to 
pray  in  a  prescribed  manner  after  purification  through  ritual  ablu- 
tions each  day  at  dawn,  midday,  midafternoon,  sunset,  and  night- 
fall. Prescribed  genuflections  and  prostrations  accompany  the 
prayers,  which  the  worshiper  recites  facing  toward  Mecca.  When- 
ever possible,  men  pray  in  congregation  at  the  mosque  with  an 
imam  (see  Glossary),  and  on  Fridays  they  make  a  special  effort 
to  do  so.  The  Friday  noon  prayers  provide  the  occasion  for  weekly 
sermons  by  religious  leaders.  Women  may  also  attend  public  wor- 
ship at  the  mosque,  where  they  are  segregated  from  the  men, 
although  most  frequently  women  pray  at  home.  A  special  func- 
tionary, the  muezzin,  intones  a  call  to  prayer  to  the  entire  com- 
munity at  the  appropriate  hour.  Those  out  of  earshot  determine 
the  time  by  the  sun. 

The  ninth  month  of  the  Muslim  calendar  is  Ramadan,  a  period 
of  obligatory  fasting  in  commemoration  of  Muhammad's  receipt 
of  God's  revelation.  Throughout  the  month,  all  but  the  sick  and 
the  weak,  pregnant  or  lactating  women,  soldiers  on  duty,  travel- 
ers on  necessary  journeys,  and  young  children  are  enjoined  from 
eating,  drinking,  smoking,  or  sexual  intercourse  during  the  day- 
light hours.  Those  adults  excused  are  obliged  to  endure  an  equiva- 
lent fast  at  their  earliest  opportunity.  A  festive  meal  breaks  the  daily 
fast  and  inaugurates  a  night  of  feasting  and  celebration.  The  pious 
well-to-do  usually  do  little  or  no  work  during  this  period,  and  some 
businesses  close  for  all  or  part  of  the  day.  Since  the  months  of  the 
lunar  year  revolve  through  the  solar  year,  Ramadan  falls  at  vari- 
ous seasons  in  different  years.  A  considerable  test  of  discipline  at 
any  time  of  the  year,  a  fast  that  falls  in  summertime  imposes  severe 
hardship  on  those  who  must  do  physical  work. 

All  Muslims,  at  least  once  in  their  lifetimes,  should  make  the 
hajj  to  Mecca  to  participate  in  special  rites  held  there  during  the 
twelfth  month  of  the  lunar  calendar.  Muhammad  instituted  this 
requirement,  modifying  pre-Islamic  custom,  to  emphasize  sites 
associated  with  God  and  Abraham  (Ibrahim),  founder  of  monothe- 
ism and  father  of  the  Arabs  through  his  son,  Ismail. 

The  lesser  pillars  of  the  faith,  which  all  Muslims  share,  are  jihad, 
or  the  crusade  to  protect  Islamic  lands,  beliefs,  and  institutions; 
and  the  requirement  to  do  good  works  and  to  avoid  all  evil  thoughts, 
words,  and  deeds.  In  addition,  Muslims  agree  on  certain  basic  prin- 
ciples of  faith  based  on  the  teachings  of  the  Prophet  Muhammad: 
there  is  one  God,  who  is  a  unitary  divine  being  in  contrast  to  the 
trinitarian  belief  of  Christians;  Muhammad,  the  last  of  a  line  of 


88 


■  .-5- 


Great  Mosque  in  the  Shia  holy  city  of  An  Najaf 
Courtesy  Matson  Collection 

prophets  beginning  with  Abraham  and  including  Moses  and  Jesus, 
was  chosen  by  God  to  present  His  message  to  humanity;  and  there 
is  a  general  resurrection  on  the  last,  or  judgment,  day. 

During  his  lifetime,  Muhammad  held  both  spiritual  and  tem- 
poral leadership  of  the  Muslim  community.  Religious  and  secular 
law  merged,  and  all  Muslims  have  traditionally  been  subject  to 
sharia,  or  religious  law.  A  comprehensive  legal  system,  sharia 
developed  gradually  through  the  first  four  centuries  of  Islam, 
primarily  through  the  accretion  of  interpretations  and  precedents 
set  by  various  judges  and  scholars.  During  the  tenth  century,  legal 
opinion  began  to  harden  into  authoritative  rulings,  and  the  figura- 
tive bob  al  ijtihad  (gate  of  interpretation)  closed.  Thereafter,  rather 
than  encouraging  flexibility,  Islamic  law  emphasized  maintenance 
of  the  status  quo. 

After  Muhammad's  death,  the  leaders  of  the  Muslim  commu- 
nity consensually  chose  Abu  Bakr,  the  Prophet's  father-in-law  and 
one  of  his  earliest  followers,  to  succeed  him.  At  that  time  some  per- 
sons favored  Ali  ibn  Abu  Talib,  Muhammad's  cousin  and  the  hus- 
band of  his  daughter  Fatima,  but  Ali  and  his  supporters  (the  Shiat 
Ali,  or  party  of  Ali)  eventually  recognized  the  community's  choice. 
The  next  two  caliphs  (successors) — Umar,  who  succeeded  in  634, 
and  Uthman,  who  took  power  in  644 — enjoyed  the  recognition  of 
the  entire  community.  When  Ali  finally  succeeded  to  the  caliphate 


89 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

in  656,  Muawiyah,  governor  of  Syria,  rebelled  in  the  name  of  his 
murdered  kinsman  Uthman.  After  the  ensuing  civil  war,  Ali  moved 
his  capital  to  Iraq,  where  he  was  murdered  shortly  thereafter. 

Ali's  death  ended  the  last  of  the  so-called  four  orthodox  caliphates 
and  the  period  in  which  the  entire  community  of  Islam  recognized 
a  single  caliph.  Muawiyah  proclaimed  himself  caliph  from  Damas- 
cus. The  Shiat  Ali  refused  to  recognize  him  or  his  line,  the  Umay- 
yad  caliphs,  and  withdrew  in  the  great  schism  to  establish  the 
dissident  sect,  known  as  the  Shias,  who  supported  the  claims  of 
Ali's  line  to  the  caliphate  based  on  descent  from  the  Prophet.  The 
larger  faction,  the  Sunnis,  adhered  to  the  position  that  the  caliph 
must  be  elected,  and  over  the  centuries  they  have  represented  them- 
selves as  the  orthodox  branch. 

Sunnis 

Originally  political,  the  differences  between  Sunni  and  Shia 
interpretations  rapidly  took  on  theological  and  metaphysical  over- 
tones. In  principle,  a  Sunni  approaches  God  directly:  there  is  no 
clerical  hierarchy.  Some  duly  appointed  religious  figures,  however, 
exert  considerable  social  and  political  power.  Imams  usually  are 
men  of  importance  in  their  communities,  but  they  need  not  have 
any  formal  training;  among  the  beduins,  for  example,  any  tribal 
member  may  lead  communal  prayers.  Committees  of  socially 
prominent  worshipers  usually  administer  mosque-owned  land  and 
gifts.  In  Iraq,  as  in  many  other  Arab  countries,  the  administra- 
tion of  waqfs  (religious  endowments)  has  come  under  the  influ- 
ence of  the  state.  Qadis  (judges)  and  imams  are  appointed  by  the 
government. 

The  Muslim  year  has  two  religious  festivals — Id  al  Adha,  a  sacri- 
ficial festival  on  the  tenth  of  Dhu  al  Hijjah,  the  twelfth,  or  pil- 
grimage, month;  and  Id  al  Fitr,  the  festival  of  breaking  the  fast, 
which  celebrates  the  end  of  Ramadan  on  the  first  of  Shawwal,  the 
tenth  month.  To  Sunnis  these  are  the  most  important  festivals  of 
the  year.  Each  lasts  three  or  four  days,  during  which  people  put 
on  their  best  clothes  and  visit,  congratulate,  and  bestow  gifts  on 
each  other.  In  addition,  cemeteries  are  visited.  Id  al  Fitr  is  celebrated 
more  joyfully,  as  it  marks  the  end  of  the  hardships  of  Ramadan. 
Celebrations  also  take  place,  although  less  extensively,  on  the 
Prophet's  birthday,  which  falls  on  the  twelfth  of  Rabi  al  Awwal, 
the  third  month,  and  on  the  first  of  Muharram,  the  beginning  of 
the  new  year. 

With  regard  to  legal  matters,  Sunni  Islam  has  four  orthodox 
schools  that  give  different  weight  in  legal  opinions  to  prescriptions 
in  the  Quran,  to  the  hadith  or  sayings  of  the  Prophet  Muhammad, 


90 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


to  the  consensus  of  legal  scholars,  to  analogy  (to  similar  situations 
at  the  time  of  the  Prophet),  and  to  reason  or  opinion.  Named  for 
their  founders,  the  Hanafi  school  of  Imam  Abu  Hanifa,  born  in 
Al  Kufah  about  700,  is  the  major  school  of  Iraqi  Sunni  Arabs.  It 
makes  considerable  use  of  reason  or  opinion  in  legal  decisions.  The 
dominant  school  for  Iraqi  Sunni  Kurds  is  that  of  Imam  Abu  Abd 
Allah  Muhammad  Shafii  of  the  Quraysh  tribe  of  the  Prophet,  who 
was  born  in  767,  was  brought  up  in  Mecca,  and  later  taught  in 
both  Baghdad  and  Cairo.  He  followed  a  somewhat  eclectic  legal 
path,  laying  down  the  rules  for  analogy  that  were  later  adopted 
by  other  legal  schools.  The  other  two  legal  schools  in  Islam,  the 
Maliki  and  the  Hanbali,  lack  a  significant  number  of  adherents 
in  Iraq. 

Shias 

Shia  Muslims  hold  the  fundamental  beliefs  of  other  Muslims  (see 
Islam,  this  ch.).  In  addition  to  these  tenets,  however,  Shias  believe 
in  the  distinctive  institution  of  Shia  Islam,  the  Imamate.  Whereas 
Sunni  Muslims  view  the  caliph  as  a  temporal  leader  only,  and  con- 
sider an  imam  to  be  a  prayer  leader,  Shia  Muslims  have  a  heredi- 
tary view  of  Muslim  leadership.  They  believe  the  Prophet 
Muhammad  designated  Ali  to  be  his  successor  as  Imam,  exercis- 
ing both  spiritual  and  temporal  leadership.  Such  an  Imam  must 
have  knowledge,  both  in  a  general  and  a  religious  sense,  as  well 
as  spiritual  guidance  or  walayat,  the  ability  to  interpret  the  inner 
mysteries  of  the  Quran  and  the  sharia.  Only  those  who  have  walayat 
are  free  from  error  and  sin  and  have  been  chosen  by  God  through 
the  Prophet.  Each  Imam  in  turn  designated  his  successor — through 
twelve  Imams — each  holding  the  same  powers. 

The  Imamate  began  with  Ali,  who  is  also  accepted  by  Sunni  Mus- 
lims as  the  fourth  of  the  "rightly  guided  caliphs"  to  succeed  the 
Prophet.  Shias  revere  Ali  as  the  First  Imam,  and  his  descendants, 
beginning  with  his  sons  Hasan  and  Husayn,  continue  the  line  of 
the  Imams  until  the  twelfth,  who  is  believed  to  have  ascended  into 
a  supernatural  state  to  return  to  earth  on  Judgment  Day.  Shias 
point  to  the  close  lifetime  association  of  the  Prophet  with  Ali.  When 
Ali  was  six  years  old,  he  was  invited  by  the  Prophet  to  live  with 
him,  and  Shias  believe  Ali  was  the  first  person  to  make  the  declara- 
tion of  faith  in  Islam.  Ali  also  slept  in  the  Prophet's  bed  on  the 
night  of  the  hijra,  when  it  was  feared  that  the  house  would  be 
attacked  by  unbelievers  and  the  Prophet  stabbed  to  death.  He  fought 
in  all  the  battles  the  Prophet  did,  except  one,  and  the  Prophet  chose 
him  to  be  the  husband  of  his  favorite  daughter,  Fatima. 


91 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Among  Shias  the  term  imam  traditionally  has  been  used  only  for 
Ali  and  his  eleven  descendants.  None  of  the  twelve  Imams,  with 
the  exception  of  Ali,  ever  ruled  an  Islamic  government.  During 
their  lifetimes,  their  followers  hoped  that  they  would  assume  the 
ruler  ship  of  the  Islamic  community,  a  rule  that  was  believed  to  have 
been  wrongfully  usurped.  Because  the  Sunni  caliphs  were  cognizant 
of  this  hope,  the  Imams  generally  were  persecuted  under  the  Umay- 
yad  and  Abbasid  dynasties.  Therefore,  the  Imams  tried  to  be  as 
unobtrusive  as  possible  and  to  live  as  far  as  was  reasonable  from 
the  successive  capitals  of  the  Islamic  empire. 

During  the  eighth  century,  the  Caliph  Al  Mamun,  son  and  suc- 
cessor to  Harun  ar  Rashid,  was  favorably  disposed  toward  the 
descendants  of  Ali  and  their  followers.  He  invited  Imam  Reza,  the 
Eighth  Imam  (765-816),  to  come  from  Medina  (in  the  Arabian 
Peninsula)  to  his  court  at  Marv  (Mary  in  the  present-day  Soviet 
Union).  While  Reza  was  residing  at  Marv,  Al  Mamun  designated 
him  as  his  successor  in  an  apparent  effort  to  avoid  conflict  among 
Muslims.  Reza's  sister  Fatima  journeyed  from  Medina  to  be  with 
her  brother,  but  took  ill  and  died  at  Qpm,  in  present-day  Iran. 
A  major  shrine  developed  around  her  tomb  and  over  the  centuries 
Qpm  has  become  a  major  Shia  pilgrimage  and  theological  center. 

Al  Mamun  took  Reza  on  his  military  campaign  to  retake  Bagh- 
dad from  political  rivals.  On  this  trip,  Reza  died  unexpectedly  in 
Khorasan.  Reza  was  the  only  Imam  to  reside  in,  or  die  in,  what 
in  now  Iran.  A  major  shrine,  and  eventually  the  city  of  Mashhad, 
grew  up  around  his  tomb,  which  has  become  the  most  important 
pilgrimage  center  in  Iran.  Several  important  theological  schools 
are  located  in  Mashhad,  associated  with  the  shrine  of  the  Eighth 
Imam. 

Reza's  sudden  death  was  a  shock  to  his  followers,  many  of  whom 
believed  that  Al  Mamun,  out  of  jealousy  for  Reza's  increasing 
popularity,  had  had  the  Imam  poisoned.  Al  Mamun's  suspected 
treachery  against  Imam  Reza  and  his  family  tended  to  reinforce 
a  feeling  already  prevalent  among  his  followers  that  the  Sunni  rul- 
ers were  untrustworthy. 

The  Twelfth  Imam  is  believed  to  have  been  only  five  years  old 
when  the  Imamate  descended  upon  him  in  874  at  the  death  of  his 
father.  Because  his  followers  feared  he  might  be  assassinated,  the 
Twelfth  Imam  was  hidden  from  public  view  and  was  seen  only  by 
a  few  of  his  closest  deputies.  Sunnis  claim  that  he  never  existed, 
or  that  he  died  while  still  a  child.  Shias  believe  that  the  Twelfth 
Imam  never  died,  but  disappeared  from  earth  in  about  939.  Since 
that  time,  the  greater  occultation  of  the  Twelfth  Imam  has  been 
in  force,  which  will  last  until  God  commands  the  Twelfth  Imam 


92 


93 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

to  manifest  himself  on  earth  again  as  the  Mahdi  or  Messiah.  Shias 
believe  that  during  the  occultation  of  the  Twelfth  Imam,  he  is 
spiritually  present — some  believe  that  he  is  materially  present  as 
well — and  he  is  besought  to  reappear  in  various  invocations  and 
prayers.  His  name  is  mentioned  in  wedding  invitations,  and  his 
birthday  is  one  of  the  most  jubilant  of  all  Shia  religious  observances. 

The  Shia  doctrine  of  the  Imamate  was  not  fully  elaborated  until 
the  tenth  century.  Other  dogmas  were  developed  still  later.  A 
characteristic  of  Shia  Islam  is  the  continual  exposition  and  reinter- 
retation  of  doctrine. 

A  further  belief  of  Shia  Muslims  concerns  divine  justice  and  the 
individual's  responsibility  for  his  acts,  which  are  judged  by  a  just 
God.  This  contrasts  with  the  Sunni  view  that  God's  creation  of 
man  allows  minimal  possibility  for  the  exercise  of  free  will. 

A  significant  practice  of  Shia  Islam  is  that  of  visiting  the  shrines 
of  Imams  both  in  Iraq  and  in  Iran.  These  include  the  tomb  of  Imam 
Ali  in  An  Najaf  and  that  of  his  son  Imam  Husayn  in  Karbala, 
because  both  are  considered  major  Shia  martyrs.  Before  the  1980 
Iran-Iraq  War,  tens  of  thousands  went  each  year.  The  Iranians 
have  made  it  a  central  aim  of  their  war  effort  to  wrest  these  holy 
cities  from  the  Iraqis.  Other  principal  pilgrimage  sites  in  Iraq  are 
the  tombs  of  the  Seventh  Imam  and  the  Ninth  Imam  at  Kazimayn 
near  Baghdad  and  in  Iran,  respectively,  the  tomb  of  the  Eighth 
Imam  in  Mashhad  and  that  of  his  sister  in  Qpm.  Such  pilgrimages 
originated  in  part  from  the  difficulty  and  the  expense  of  making 
the  hajj  to  Mecca  in  the  early  days. 

In  commemoration  of  the  martyrdom  of  Husayn,  killed  near 
Karbala  in  A.D.  680  during  a  battle  with  troops  supporting  the 
Umayyad  caliph,  there  are  processions  in  the  Shia  towns  and  vil- 
lages of  southern  Iraq  on  the  tenth  of  Muharram  (Ashura),  the 
anniversary  of  his  death.  Ritual  mourning  {taaziya)  is  performed 
by  groups  of  five  to  twenty  men  each.  Contributions  are  solicited 
in  the  community  to  pay  transportation  for  a  local  group  to  go  to 
Karbala  for  taaziya  celebrations  forty  days  after  Ashura.  There  is 
great  rivalry  among  groups  from  different  places  for  the  best  per- 
formance of  the  passion  plays. 

In  the  villages,  religious  readings  occur  throughout  Ramadan 
and  Muharram.  The  men  may  gather  in  the  mudhif  (tribal  guest- 
house), the  suq  (market),  or  a  private  house.  Women  meet  in  homes. 
The  readings  are  led  either  by  a  mumin  (a  man  trained  in  a  religious 
school  in  An  Najaf),  or  by  a  mullah  who  has  apprenticed  with  an 
older  specialist.  It  is  considered  the  duty  of  shaykhs  (see  Glossary), 
elders,  prosperous  merchants,  and  the  like  to  sponsor  these  read- 
ings, or  qirayas.  Under  the  monarchy  these  public  manifestations 


94 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


were  discouraged,  as  they  emphasized  grievances  against  the 
Sunnis. 

Two  distinctive  and  frequently  misunderstood  Shia  practices  are 
mutah,  temporary  marriage,  and  taqiyah,  religious  dissimulation. 
Mutah  is  a  fixed-term  contract  that  is  subject  to  renewal.  Practiced 
by  the  first  community  of  Muslims  at  Medina,  it  was  banned  by 
the  second  caliph.  Mutah  differs  from  permanent  marriage  in  that 
it  does  not  require  divorce  to  terminate  it.  It  can  be  for  a  period 
as  short  as  an  evening  or  as  long  as  a  lifetime.  The  offspring  of 
such  an  arrangement  are  the  legitimate  heirs  of  the  man. 

Taqiyah,  condemned  by  the  Sunnis  as  cowardly  and  irreligious, 
is  the  hiding  or  disavowal  of  one's  religion  or  its  practices  in  order 
to  escape  the  danger  of  death  from  those  opposed  to  the  faith. 
Persecution  of  Shia  Imams  during  the  Umayyad  and  Abbasid 
caliphates  reinforced  the  need  for  taqiyah. 

Shia  practice  differs  from  that  of  Sunnis  concerning  both  divorce 
and  inheritance  in  that  it  is  more  favorable  to  women.  The  reason 
for  this  reputedly  is  the  high  esteem  in  which  Fatima,  the  wife  of 
Ali  and  the  daughter  of  the  Prophet,  was  held. 

Like  Sunni  Islam,  Shia  Islam  has  developed  several  sects.  The 
most  important  of  these  is  the  Twelver  or  Ithna-Ashari  sect,  which 
predominates  not  only  in  Iraq  but  in  the  Shia  world  generally. 
Broadly  speaking,  the  Twelvers  are  considered  political  quietists 
as  opposed  to  the  Zaydis,  who  favor  political  activism,  and  the 
Ismailis,  who  are  identified  with  esoteric  and  gnostic  religious  doc- 
trines. Within  Twelver  Shia  Islam  there  are  two  major  legal  schools, 
the  Usuli  and  the  Akhbari.  Akhbaris  constitute  a  very  small  group 
and  are  found  primarily  around  Basra  and  in  southern  Iraq  as  well 
as  around  Khorramshahr  in  Iran.  The  dominant  Usuli  school  is 
more  liberal  in  its  legal  outlook;  it  allows  greater  use  of  interpreta- 
tion (ijtihad)  in  reaching  legal  decisions;  and  it  considers  that  one 
must  obey  a  mujtahid  (learned  interpreter  of  the  law)  as  well  as  an 
Imam. 

Sunni-Shia  Relations  in  Iraq 

Until  the  1980s,  the  dominant  view  of  contemporary  political 
analysts  held  that  Iraq  was  badly  split  along  sectarian  lines.  The 
claim  was  that  the  Sunnis — although  a  minority — ran  Iraq  and  sub- 
jected the  majority  Shias  to  systematic  discrimination.  According 
to  the  prevailing  belief,  the  Shias  would  drive  the  Sunnis  from 
power,  if  once  afforded  an  opportunity  to  do  so. 

There  was  some  basis  to  this  notion.  For  many  years  Iraq  was 
ruled  by  and  large  by  Arab  Sunnis  who  tended  to  come  from  a 
restricted  area  around  Baghdad,  Mosul,  and  Ar  Rutbah — the 


95 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

so-called  Golden  Triangle.  In  the  1980s,  not  only  was  President 
Saddam  Husayn  a  Sunni,  but  he  was  the  vice  chairman  of  the  rul- 
ing Baath  Party.  One  of  the  two  deputy  prime  ministers  and  the 
defense  minister  were  also  Sunnis.  In  addition,  the  top  posts  in 
the  security  services  have  usually  been  held  by  Sunnis,  and  most 
of  the  army's  corps  commanders  have  been  Sunnis.  It  is  also  true 
that  the  most  depressed  region  of  the  country  is  the  south,  where 
the  bulk  of  the  Shias  reside. 

Nonetheless,  the  theory  of  sectarian  strife  was  undercut  by  the 
behavior  of  Iraq's  Shia  community  during  Iran's  1982  counter- 
invasion  and  the  fighting  thereafter.  Although  about  three-quarters 
of  the  lower  ranks  of  the  army  was  composed  of  Shias,  as  of  early 
1988  no  general  insurrection  of  Iraqi  Shias  had  occurred. 

Even  in  periods  of  major  setbacks  for  the  Iraqi  army — such  as 
the  Al  Faw  debacle  in  1986 — the  Shias  have  continued  to  defend 
their  nation  and  the  Baath  regime  staunchly.  They  have  done  so 
despite  intense  propaganda  barrages  mounted  by  the  Iranians,  call- 
ing on  them  to  join  the  Islamic  revolution. 

It  appears,  then,  that,  however  important  sectarian  affiliation 
may  have  been  in  the  past,  in  the  latter  1980s  nationalism  was  the 
basic  determinant  of  loyalty.  In  the  case  of  Iraq's  Shias,  it  should 
be  noted  that  they  are  Arabs,  not  Persians,  and  that  they  have  been 
the  traditional  enemies  of  the  Persians  for  centuries.  The  Iraqi 
government  has  skillfully  exploited  this  age-old  enmity  in  its 
propaganda,  publicizing  the  war  as  part  of  the  ancient  struggle 
between  the  Arab  and  Persian  empires.  For  example,  Baathist  pub- 
licists regularly  called  the  war  a  modern  day  "Al  Qadisiyah."  Al 
Qadisiyah  was  the  battle  in  637  in  which  the  Arabs  defeated  the 
pagan  hosts  of  Persia,  enabling  Islam  to  spread  to  the  East. 

The  real  tension  in  Iraq  in  the  latter  1980s  was  between  the 
majority  of  the  population,  including  Sunnis  as  well  as  Shias,  for 
whom  religious  belief  and  practice  were  significant  values,  and  the 
secular  Baathists,  rather  than  between  Sunnis  and  Shias.  Although 
the  Shias  were  underrepresented  in  government  posts  in  the  period 
of  the  monarchy,  they  made  substantial  progress  in  the  education, 
business,  and  legal  fields.  Their  advancement  in  other  areas,  such 
as  the  opposition  parties,  was  such  that  in  the  years  from  1952  to 
1963,  before  the  Baath  Party  came  to  power,  Shias  held  the  majority 
of  party  leadership  posts.  Observers  believed  that  in  the  late  1980s 
Shias  were  represented  at  all  levels  of  the  party  roughly  in  propor- 
tion to  government  estimates  of  their  numbers  in  the  population. 
For  example,  of  the  eight  top  Iraqi  leaders  who  in  early  1988  sat 
with  Saddam  Husayn  on  the  Revolutionary  Command  Council 
(RCC) — Iraq's  highest  governing  body — three  were  Arab  Shias 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


(of  whom  one  had  served  as  minister  of  interior),  three  were  Arab 
Sunnis,  one  was  an  Arab  Christian,  and  one  a  Kurd.  On  the 
Regional  Command  Council — the  ruling  body  of  the  party — Shias 
actually  predominated  (see  The  Baath  Party,  ch.  4).  During  the 
war,  a  number  of  highly  competent  Shia  officers  had  been  promoted 
to  corps  commanders.  The  general  who  turned  back  the  initial  Ira- 
nian counterinvasions  of  Iraq  in  1982  was  a  Shia. 

The  Shias  continued  to  make  good  progress  in  the  economic  field 
as  well  during  the  1980s.  Although  the  government  did  not  pub- 
lish statistics  that  give  breakdowns  by  religious  affiliation,  quali- 
fied observers  noted  that  many  Shias  migrated  from  rural  areas, 
particularly  in  the  south,  to  the  cities,  so  that  not  only  Basra  but 
other  cities  including  Baghdad  acquired  a  Shia  majority.  Many 
of  these  Shias  prospered  in  business  and  the  professions  as  well  as 
in  industry  and  the  service  sector.  Even  those  living  in  the  poorer 
areas  of  the  cities  were  generally  better  off  than  they  had  been  in 
the  countryside.  In  the  rural  areas  as  well,  the  educational  level 
of  Shias  came  to  approximate  that  of  their  Sunni  counterparts. 

In  summary,  prior  to  the  war  the  Baath  had  taken  steps  toward 
integrating  the  Shias.  The  war  created  inordinate  demands  for  man- 
power that  could  be  met  only  by  levying  the  Shia  community,  and 
this  strengthened  the  regime's  resolve  to  further  the  integration 
process.  In  early  1988,  it  seemed  likely  that  when  the  war  ended, 
the  Shias  would  emerge  as  full  citizens — assuming  that  the  Baath 
survived  the  conflict. 

Social  Systems 

The  impact  of  Western  penetration  on  the  indigenous  social  and 
demographic  structure  in  the  nineteenth  century  was  profound. 
Western  influence  initially  took  the  form  of  transportation  and  trad- 
ing links  and  encouraged  the  switch  from  tribal-based  subsistence 
agriculture  to  cash  crop  production — mostly  dates — for  export  (see 
Agriculture,  ch.  3).  As  this  process  accelerated,  the  nomadic  popu- 
lation decreased  both  relatively  and  in  absolute  numbers  and  the 
rural  sedentary  population  increased  substantially,  particularly  in 
the  southern  region.  This  was  accompanied  by  a  pronounced  trans- 
formation of  tenurial  relations:  the  tribal,  communal  character  of 
subsistence  production  was  transformed  on  a  large  scale  into  a 
landlord- tenant  relationship;  tribal  shaykhs,  urban  merchants,  and 
government  officials  took  title  under  the  open-ended  terms  of  the 
newly  promulgated  Ottoman  land  codes.  Incentives  and  pressures 
on  this  emerging  landlord  class  to  increase  production  (and  thus 
exports  and  earnings)  resulted  in  expanded  cultivation  and  simul- 
taneously absorbed  the  "surplus"  labor  of  the  tribal,  pastoral,  and 


97 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


nomadic  people  of  Iraqi  society.  This  prolonged  process  of  seden- 
tarization  was  disrupted  by  the  dismemberment  of  the  Ottoman 
Empire  during  and  after  World  War  I.  but  it  resumed  with  renewed 
intensity  in  the  British  mandate  period,  when  the  political  struc- 
ture of  independent  Iraq  was  formed  (see  World  War  I  and  the 
British  Mandate,  ch.  1).  This  threefold  transformation  of  rural 
society — pastoral  to  agricultural,  subsistence  to  commercial,  tribal- 
communal  to  landlord-peasant — was  accompanied  by  important 
shifts  in  urban  society  as  well.  There  was  a  general  increase  in  the 
number  of  market  towns  and  in  the  size  of  their  populations,  but 
the  destruction  of  handicraft  industries,  especially  in  Baghdad,  by 
the  import  of  cheap  manufactured  goods  from  the  West,  led  to  an 
absolute  decline  in  the  population  of  urban  centers.  It  also  indelibly 
stamped  the  subsequent  urban  growth  with  a  mercantile  and 
bureaucratic-administrative  character  that  is  still  a  strong  feature 
of  Iraqi  society. 

Thus,  the  general  history  of  Iraqi  population  dynamics  in  the 
modern  era  can  be  described  as  a  period  extending  from  the  mid- 
dle of  the  nineteenth  century  to  WTorld  War  II,  characterized  chiefly 
by  urbanization,  with  a  steady  and  growing  movement  of  people 
from  the  rural  (especially  southern)  region  to  the  urban  (especially 
central)  region.  Furthermore,  the  basic  trends  of  the  1980s  are 
rooted  in  the  particularly  exploitive  character  of  agricultural  prac- 
tices in  regard  to  both  the  land  itself  and  the  people  who  work  it. 
Declining  productivity  of  the  land,  stemming  from  the  failure  to 
develop  drainage  along  the  irrigation  facilities  and  from  the 
wretched  condition  of  the  producers,  has  resulted  in  a  potentially 
harmful  demographic  trajectory — the  depopulation  of  the  coun- 
tryside— that  in  the  late  1980s  continued  to  thwart  government 
efforts  to  reverse  the  decades-long  pattern  of  declining  productivity 
in  the  agricultural  sector. 

The  accelerated  urbanization  process  since  World  War  II  is 
starkly  illustrated  in  the  shrinking  proportion  of  the  population  liv- 
ing in  rural  areas:  61  percent  in  1947.  decreasing  to  56  percent 
in  1965.  then  36  percent  in  1977.  and  an  estimated  29.5  percent 
in  1987;  concurrently,  between  1977  and  1987,  the  urban  popula- 
tion rose  from  7,646,054  to  an  estimated  11,483,000.  The  rural 
exodus  has  been  most  severe  in  Al  Basrah  and  Al  Qadisiyah  gover- 
norates.  The  proportion  of  rural  to  urban  population  was  lowest 
in  the  governorates  of  Al  Basrah  (37  percent  in  1965,  and  12  per- 
cent in  1987)  and  Baghdad  (48  percent  in  1965  and  7  percent  in 
1987).  It  was  highest  in  Dhi  Qar  Governorate  where  it  averaged 
49  percent  in  1987.  followed  closely  by  Al  Muthanna  and  Diyala 
governorates,  each  with  a  rural  population  of  48  percent  of  total 


98 


Christian  church,  Baghdad 
Courtesy  Ronald  L.  Kuipers 


population.  Between  1957  and  1987,  the  population  of  Baghdad 
and  Al  Basrah  governorates  grew  by  73  percent  and  41  percent 
respectively.  During  the  same  years,  the  city  of  Baghdad  grew  by 
87  percent,  and  the  city  of  Basra  grew  by  64  percent. 

Because  of  the  war,  the  growth  of  Al  Basrah  Governorate  has 
been  reversed  while  that  of  Baghdad  Governorate  has  accelerated 
alarmingly  to  the  1987  census  figure  for  urban  Baghdad  of 
3,600,000.  Iranian  forces  have  mounted  an  offensive  each  year  of 
the  war  since  1980,  except  for  early  1988,  seeking  to  capture  Basra 
and  the  adjoining  area  and  subjecting  the  city  to  regular  bombard- 
ment. As  a  result,  large  numbers  of  the  population  have  fled  north- 
ward from  Basra  and  other  southern  areas,  and  many  have  entered 
Baghdad,  which  was  already  experiencing  overcrowding.  The 
government  has  attempted  to  deal  with  this  situation  by  moving 
war  refugees  out  of  the  capital  and  resettling  them  in  other  smaller 
cities  in  the  south,  out  of  the  range  of  the  fighting. 

Rural  Society 

Rural  Iraq  contains  aspects  of  the  largely  tribal  mode  of  social 
organization  that  prevailed  over  the  centuries  and  still  survived  in 
the  1980s — particularly  in  the  more  isolated  rural  areas,  such  as 
the  rugged  tableland  of  the  northwest  and  the  marshes  of  the  south. 
The  tribal  mode  probably  originated  in  the  unstable  social  condi- 
tions that  resulted  from  the  protracted  decline  of  the  Abbasid 


99 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Caliphate  (A.D.  750-1258)  and  the  subsequent  cycles  of  invasion 
and  devastation. 

In  the  absence  of  a  strong  central  authority  and  of  the  urban 
society  of  a  great  civilization,  society  developed  into  smaller  units 
under  conditions  that  placed  increasing  stress  on  prowess,  deci- 
siveness, and  mobility.  Under  these  conditions,  the  tribal  shaykhs 
emerged  as  a  warrior  class,  and  this  development  facilitated  the 
ascendancy  of  the  fighter-nomad  over  the  cultivator. 

The  gradual  sedentarization  that  began  in  the  mid-nineteenth 
century  brought  with  it  an  erosion  of  the  power  of  shaykhs  and 
a  disintegration  of  the  tribal  system.  Under  the  British  mandate, 
and  the  monarchy  that  was  its  creation,  a  reversal  took  place. 
Despite  the  continued  decline  of  the  tribe  as  a  viable  and  organic 
social  entity,  the  enfeebled  power  of  the  shaykhs  was  restored  and 
was  enhanced  by  the  British.  This  was  done  to  develop  a  local  rul- 
ing class  that  could  maintain  security  in  the  countryside  and  could 
otherwise  head  off  political  challenges  to  British  access  to  Iraq's 
mineral  and  agricultural  resources  and  Britain's  paramount  role 
in  the  Persian  Gulf  shaykhdoms  (see  World  War  I  and  the  British 
Mandate,  ch.  1).  Specifically,  through  the  implementation  of  land 
registration,  the  traditional  pattern  of  communal  cultivation  and 
pasturage — with  mutual  rights  and  duties  between  shaykhs  and 
tribesmen — was  superseded  in  some  tribal  areas  by  the  institution 
of  private  property  and  by  the  shaykhs'  expropriation  of  tribal  lands 
as  private  estates.  The  status  of  the  tribesmen  was  in  many  instances 
reduced  drastically,  to  that  of  sharecroppers  and  laborers.  The 
additional  ascription  of  judicial  and  police  powers  to  the  shaykh 
and  to  his  retinue  left  the  tribesmen-cum-peasants  as  virtual  serfs, 
continuously  in  debt  and  in  servitude  to  the  shaykh  turned  land- 
lord and  master.  The  social  basis  for  the  shaykhs'  power  had  been 
transformed  from  military  valor  and  moral  rectitude  to  the  pos- 
session of  wealth  as  embodied  in  vast  landholdings  and  in  a  claim 
to  the  greater  share  of  the  peasants'  production. 

This  change  was  the  social  dimension  of  the  transformation  from 
a  subsistence,  pastoral  economy  to  an  agricultural  economy  linked 
to  the  world  market.  It  was,  of  course,  an  immensely  complicated 
process,  and  conditions  varied  in  different  parts  of  the  country. 
The  main  impact  was  in  the  southern  half — the  riverine  economy — 
more  than  in  the  sparsely  populated,  rain-fed  northern  area.  A  more 
elaborate  analysis  of  this  process  would  have  to  look  specifically 
at  the  differences  between  Kurdish  and  Arab  shaykhs,  between 
political  and  religious  leadership  functions,  between  Sunni  and  Shia 
shaykhs,  and  between  nomadic  and  riverine  shaykhs,  all  within 
their  ecological  settings.  In  general  the  biggest  estates  developed 


100 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


in  areas  restored  to  cultivation  through  dam  construction  and  by 
pump  irrigation  after  World  War  I.  The  most  autocratic  exam- 
ples of  shaykhly  power  were  in  the  rice-growing  region  near  Al 
Amarah,  where  the  need  for  organized  and  supervised  labor  and 
the  rigorous  requirements  of  rice  cultivation  generated  the  most 
oppressive  conditions. 

The  role  of  the  tribe  as  the  chief  politico-military  unit  was  already 
well  eroded  by  the  time  the  monarchy  was  overthrown  in  July  1958. 
The  role  of  some  tribal  shaykhs  had  been  abolished  by  the  central 
government.  The  tribal  system  survived  longest  in  the  mid- 
Euphrates  area,  where  many  tribesmen  had  managed  to  register 
small  plots  in  their  own  names  and  had  not  become  mere  tenants 
of  the  shaykh.  In  such  settings,  an  interesting  amalgam  developed 
of  the  traditional  customs  of  the  tribes  and  the  more  modern  prac- 
tices of  the  civil  servants  sent  to  rural  regions  by  the  central 
government — both  influenced  by  the  expanded  government  edu- 
cation system.  For  example,  the  government  engineer  responsible 
for  the  water  distribution  system,  although  technically  not  a  major 
administrator,  in  practice  became  the  leading  figure  in  rural  areas. 
He  would  set  forth  requirements  for  the  cleaning  and  the  main- 
tenance of  the  canals  (see  Agriculture,  ch.  3),  and  the  tribal  shaykh 
would  see  to  it  that  the  necessary  manpower  was  provided.  This 
service,  in  the  minds  of  tribesmen,  replaced  the  old  customary 
obligation  of  military  service  that  they  owed  to  the  shaykh  and  was 
not  unduly  onerous.  It  could  readily  be  combined  with  work  on 
their  own  grazing  or  producing  lands,  and  it  benefited  the  tribe 
as  a  whole.  The  government  administrators  usually  avoided 
becoming  involved  in  legal  disputes  that  might  result  from  water 
rights,  leaving  the  disputes  to  be  settled  by  the  shaykh  in  accor- 
dance with  traditional  tribal  practices.  Thus,  despite  occasional  ten- 
sions in  such  government- tribe  relationships,  the  power  of  the 
central  government  gradually  expanded  into  regions  where  Bagh- 
dad's influence  had  previously  been  slight  or  absent. 

Despite  the  erosion  of  the  historic  functions  of  tribal  organiza- 
tion, the  prolonged  absence  of  alternative  social  links  has  helped 
to  preserve  the  tribal  character  of  individual  and  group  relations. 
The  complexity  of  these  relations  is  impressive.  Even  in  the 
southern,  irrigated  part  of  the  country  there  are  notable  differences 
between  the  tribes  along  the  Tigris,  subject  to  Iranian  influences, 
and  those  of  the  Euphrates,  whose  historic  links  are  with  the  Arab 
beduin  tribes  of  the  desert.  Since  virtually  no  ethnographic  studies 
on  the  Tigris  peoples  existed  in  the  late  1980s,  the  following  is  based 
chiefly  on  research  in  the  Euphrates  region. 


101 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

The  tribe  represents  a  concentric  social  system  linked  to  the  clas- 
sical nomadic  structure  but  modified  by  the  sedentary  environment 
and  limited  territory  characteristic  of  the  modern  era.  The  primary 
unit  within  the  tribe  is  the  named  agnatic  lineage  several  genera- 
tions deep  to  which  each  member  belongs.  This  kinship  unit  shares 
responsibilities  in  feuds  and  in  war;  it  restricts  and  controls  mar- 
riage within  itself;  and  it  jointly  occupies  a  specified  share  of  tribal 
land.  The  requirements  of  mutual  assistance  preclude  any  signifi- 
cant economic  differentiation,  and  authority  is  shared  among  the 
older  men.  The  primary  family  unit  rests  within  the  clan,  com- 
posed of  two  or  more  lineage  groups  related  by  descent  or  adop- 
tion. The  clans  are  units  of  solidarity  in  disputes  with  other  clans 
in  the  tribe,  although  there  may  be  intense  feuding  among  the  line- 
age groups  within  the  clan.  The  clan  also  represents  a  shared  ter- 
ritorial interest,  because  the  land  belonging  to  the  component 
lineage  groups  customarily  is  adjacent.  A  clan,  nevertheless,  can 
switch  its  allegiance  from  its  ancestral  tribal  unit  to  a  stronger,  ascen- 
dant tribe. 

Several  clans  united  under  a  single  shaykh  form  a  tribe  (ashira). 
This  traditionally  has  been  the  dominant  politico-military  unit 
although,  because  of  unsettled  conditions,  tribes  frequently  band 
together  in  confederations  under  a  paramount  shaykh.  The  degree 
of  hierarchy  and  of  centralization  operative  in  a  given  tribe  seems 
to  correlate  with  the  length  of  time  it  has  been  sedentary:  the  Bani 
Isad,  for  example,  which  has  been  settled  for  several  centuries,  is 
much  more  centralized  than  the  Ash  Shabana,  which  has  been 
sedentary  only  since  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century. 

In  the  south,  only  the  small  hamlets  scattered  throughout  the 
cultivated  area  are  inhabited  solely  by  tribesmen.  The  most  widely 
spread  social  unit  is  the  village,  and  most  villages  have  resident 
tradesmen  (ahl  as  suq — people  of  the  market)  and  government 
employees.  The  lines  between  these  village  dwellers  and  the  tribes- 
people,  at  least  until  just  before  the  war,  were  quite  distinct, 
although  the  degree  varied  from  place  to  place.  As  the  provision 
of  education,  health,  and  other  social  services  to  the  generally 
impoverished  rural  areas  increases,  the  number  and  the  social 
influence  of  these  nontribal  people  increase.  Representatives  of  the 
central  government  take  over  roles  previously  filled  by  the  shaykh 
or  by  his  representatives.  The  government  school  competes  with 
the  religious  school.  The  role  of  the  merchants  as  middlemen — 
buyers  of  the  peasants'  produce  and  providers  of  seeds  and  imple- 
ments as  well  as  of  food  and  clothing — has  not  yet  been  superseded 
in  most  areas  by  government-sponsored  cooperatives  and  exten- 
sion agencies.  Increasingly  in  the  1980s,  government  employees 


102 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


were  of  local  or  at  least  rural  origin,  whereas  in  the  1950s  they 
usually  were  Baghdadis  who  had  no  kinship  ties  in  the  region,  who 
wore  Western  clothing,  and  who  viewed  their  assignments  as  exile 
and  as  punishment.  In  part,  the  administrators  initially  provoked 
the  mutual  antagonism  that  later  flourished  between  them  and  the 
peasants,  particularly  as  Sunni  officials  were  often  assigned  to  Shia 
villages.  The  merchants,  however,  were  from  the  some  region — if 
not  from  the  same  village — and  were  usually  the  sons  of  merchants. 

Despite  some  commercial  developments  in  rural  areas,  in  the 
late  1980s  the  economic  base  was  still  agriculture  and,  to  a  lesser 
but  increasing  extent,  animal  husbandry.  Failure  to  resolve  the  tech- 
nical problem  of  irrigation  drainage  contributed  to  declining  rural 
productivity,  however,  and  accentuated  the  economic  as  well  as 
the  political  role  of  the  central  government.  The  growth  of  villages 
into  towns — and  whatever  other  signs  of  recent  prosperity  there 
were — should  be  viewed,  therefore,  more  as  the  result  of  greater 
government  presence  than  as  locally  developed  economic  viability. 
The  increased  number  of  government  representatives  and 
employees  added  to  the  market  for  local  produce  and,  more  impor- 
tant, promoted  the  diffusion  of  state  revenues  into  impoverished 
rural  areas  through  infrastructure  and  service  projects.  Much 
remained  to  be  done  to  supply  utilities  to  rural  inhabitants;  just 
before  the  war,  the  government  announced  a  campaign  to  provide 
such  essentials  as  electricity  and  clean  water  to  the  villages,  most 
of  which  still  lacked  these  (see  Electricity,  ch.  3).  The  government 
has  followed  through  on  several  of  these  projects — particularly  in 
the  south — despite  the  hardships  caused  by  the  war.  The  regime 
apparently  felt  the  need  to  reward  the  southerners,  who  had  suffered 
inordinately  in  the  struggle. 

Impact  of  Agrarian  Reform 

One  of  the  most  significant  achievements  of  the  fundamentally 
urban-based  revolutionary  regime  of  Abd  al  Karim  Qasim  (1958- 
63)  was  the  proclamation  and  partial  implementation  of  a  radical 
agrarian  reform  program.  The  scope  of  the  program  and  the  drastic 
shortage  of  an  administrative  cadre  to  implement  it,  coupled  with 
political  struggles  within  the  Qasim  regime  and  its  successor  regimes, 
limited  the  immediate  impact  of  the  program  to  the  expropriation 
stage.  The  largest  estates  were  easily  confiscated,  but  distribution 
lagged  owing  to  administrative  problems  and  to  the  wasted,  saline 
character  of  much  of  the  land  expropriated;  moreover,  landlords 
could  choose  the  best  of  the  lands  to  keep  for  themselves. 

The  impact  of  the  reforms  on  the  lives  of  the  rural  masses  can 
only  be  surmised  on  the  basis  of  uncertain  official  statistics  and 


103 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


of  rare  observations  and  reports  by  outsiders,  such  as  officials  of 
the  United  Nations  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization.  The 
development  of  cooperatives,  especially  their  capacity  as  market- 
ing agents,  was  one  of  the  most  obvious  failures  of  the  program, 
although  there  were  isolated  instances  of  success.  In  some  of  these 
instances,  traditional  elders  were  mobilized  to  serve  as  coopera- 
tive directors,  and  former  sirkals,  clan  leaders  who  functioned  as 
foremen  for  the  shaykhs,  could  bring  a  working  knowledge  of  local 
irrigation  needs  and  practices  to  the  cooperative. 

The  continued  impoverishment  of  the  rural  masses  was  evident, 
however,  in  the  tremendous  migration  that  continued,  through  the 
1960s,  1970s,  and  into  the  1980s,  from  rural  to  urban  areas.  Accord- 
ing to  the  Ministry  of  Planning,  the  average  rate  of  internal  migration 
from  the  countryside  increased  from  19,600  a  year  in  the  mid-1950s 
to  40,000  a  year  in  the  1958  to  1962  period.  A  study  of  1 10  villages 
in  the  Nineveh  and  Babylon  governorates  concluded  that  depressed 
rural  conditions  and  other  variables — rather  than  job  opportunities 
in  the  modern  sector — accounted  for  most  of  the  migration. 

There  was  little  doubt  that  this  massive  migration  and  land  reform 
reduced  the  number  of  landless  peasants.  The  most  recent  compre- 
hensive tenurial  statistics  available  before  the  war  broke  out — the 
Agricultural  Census  of  1971 — put  the  total  farmland  (probably 
meaning  cultivable  land,  rather  than  land  under  cultivation)  at  more 
than  5.7  million  hectares,  of  which  more  than  98.2  percent  was 
privately  owned.  About  30  percent  of  this  had  been  distributed 
under  the  agrarian  reform.  The  average  size  of  the  holdings  was 
about  9.7  hectares,  but  60  percent  of  the  holdings  were  smaller 
than  7.5  hectares,  which  accounted  for  less  than  14  percent  of  the 
total  area.  At  the  other  end  of  the  scale,  0.2  percent  of  the  holdings 
were  250  hectares  or  larger,  which  amounted  to  more  than  14  per- 
cent of  the  total.  Fifty- two  percent  of  the  total  was  owner-operated, 
41  percent  was  farmed  under  rental  agreements,  4.8  percent  was 
worked  by  squatters,  and  only  0.6  percent  was  sharecropped.  The 
status  of  the  remaining  1.6  percent  was  uncertain.  On  the  basis 
of  limited  statistics  released  by  the  government  in  1985,  the  amount 
of  land  distributed  since  the  inception  of  the  reform  program  totaled 
2,271,250  hectares  (see  Land  Tenure  and  Agrarian  Reform,  ch.  3). 

Political  instability  throughout  the  1960s  hindered  the  implemen- 
tation of  the  agrarian  reform  program,  but  after  seizing  power  in 
1968  the  Baath  regime  made  a  considerable  effort  to  reactivate  it. 
Law  No.  117  (1970)  further  limited  the  maximum  size  of  hold- 
ings, eliminated  compensation  to  the  landowner,  and  abolished  pay- 
ments by  beneficiaries,  thus  acknowledging  the  extremity  of  peasant 
indebtedness  and  poverty. 


104 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  reform  created  a  large  number  of  small  holdings.  Given  the 
experience  of  similar  efforts  in  other  countries,  foreign  observers 
have  surmised  that  a  new  stratification  has  emerged  in  the  coun- 
tryside, characterized  by  the  rise  of  middle-level  peasants  who,  either 
directly  or  through  their  leadership  in  the  cooperatives,  control 
much  of  the  agricultural  machinery  and  its  use.  Membership  in 
the  ruling  Baath  Party  is  an  additional  means  of  securing  access 
to,  and  control  over,  such  resources.  Prior  to  the  war,  the  party 
seemed  to  have  few  roots  in  the  countryside,  but,  after  the  ascent 
of  Saddam  Husayn  to  the  presidency  in  1979,  a  determined  effort 
was  made  to  build  bridges  between  the  party  cadre  in  the  capital 
and  in  the  provinces.  It  is  noteworthy  that  practically  all  party  offi- 
cials promoted  to  the  second  echelon  of  leadership  at  the  1982  party 
congress  had  distinguished  themselves  by  mobilizing  party  support 
in  the  provinces. 

Even  before  the  war,  migration  created  serious  labor  shortages. 
In  the  1980s,  as  the  war  has  driven  whole  communities  to  seek 
refuge  in  the  capital,  this  shortage  has  been  exacerbated.  The 
government  has  attempted  to  compensate  for  this  shortage  by 
importing  turnkey  projects  with  foreign  professionals.  In  the  Kurd- 
ish areas  of  the  north,  however — and  to  a  degree  in  the  southern 
region  infested  by  deserters — the  safety  of  foreign  personnel  has 
been  difficult  to  guarantee;  therefore,  many  projects  have  had  to 
be  temporarily  abandoned.  Another  government  strategy  for  cop- 
ing with  the  labor  shortage  caused  by  the  war  has  been  to  import 
Egyptian  workers.  It  has  been  estimated  that  as  many  as  1 .5  mil- 
lion Egyptians  have  found  employment  in  Iraq  since  the  war  began. 

Urban  Society 

Iraq's  society  just  before  the  outbreak  of  the  war  was  undergoing 
profound  and  rapid  social  change  that  had  a  definite  urban  focus. 
The  city  has  historically  played  an  important  economic  and  politi- 
cal role  in  the  life  of  Middle  Eastern  societies,  and  this  was  cer- 
tainly true  in  the  territory  that  is  present-day  Iraq.  Trade  and 
commerce,  handicrafts  and  small  manufactures,  and  administra- 
tive and  cultural  activities  have  traditionally  been  central  to  the 
economy  and  to  the  society,  notwithstanding  the  overwhelmingly 
rural  character  of  most  of  the  population.  In  the  modern  era,  as 
the  country,  and  particularly  its  commercial  and  administrative 
sectors,  witnessed  a  growing  involvement  with  the  world  market, 
the  growth  of  a  few  urban  centers,  notably  Baghdad  and  Basra, 
has  been  astounding.  The  war,  however,  has  altered  this  pattern 
of  growth  remarkably — in  the  case  of  Baghdad  accelerating  it,  and 
in  the  case  of  Basra  shrinking  it  considerably. 


105 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Demographic  estimates  based  on  the  1987  census  reflected  an 
increase  in  the  urban  population  of  from  5,452,000  in  1970,  to 
7,646,054  in  1977  and  to  11,483,000  in  1987— or  to  70.5  percent 
of  the  population.  Census  data  show  the  remarkable  growth  of  Bagh- 
dad, in  particular,  from  just  over  500,000  in  1947  to  1,745,000 
in  1965;  and  from  3,226,000  in  1977  to  3,600,000  in  1987. 

The  population  of  other  major  cities,  according  to  the  1977  cen- 
sus, was  1,540,000  for  Basra,  1,220,000  for  Mosul,  and  535,000 
for  Kirkuk  (detailed  information  from  the  October  1987  census  was 
lacking  in  early  1988).  The  port  of  Basra  presents  a  more  complex 
picture  of  accelerated  growth  up  to  the  time  the  war  erupted,  then 
a  sharp  deceleration  once  the  war  started  and  the  effects  of  the  fight- 
ing around  the  city  began  to  be  felt.  Between  1957  and  1965,  Basra 
actually  had  a  higher  growth  rate  than  Baghdad — 90  percent  in 
Basra  compared  with  Baghdad's  65  percent.  When  the  Iranians 
managed  to  sink  several  tankers  in  the  Shatt  al  Arab,  however, 
the  waterway  was  effectively  blocked,  and  the  economy  of  the  port 
city  began  to  deteriorate.  By  1988  repeated  attempts  by  Iran  to 
capture  Basra  had  further  eroded  the  strength  of  the  city's  com- 
mercial sector,  and  the  heavy  bombardment  had  rendered  some 
quarters  of  Basra  virtually  uninhabitable.  Reliable  statistics  were 
unavailable  because  of  the  war  but  the  city's  population  in  early 
1988  was  probably  less  than  half  that  in  1977. 

In  the  extreme  north,  the  picture  was  somewhat  different.  There, 
a  number  of  middle-sized  towns  have  experienced  very  rapid 
growth — triggered  by  the  unsettled  conditions  in  the  region.  Early 
in  the  war,  the  government  determined  to  fight  Kurdish  guerrilla 
activity  by  targeting  the  communities  that  allegedly  sustained  the 
rebels.  It  therefore  cleared  the  local  inhabitants  from  whole  tracts 
of  this  mountainous  region.  The  residents  of  the  cleared  areas  fled 
to  regional  urban  centers  like  Irbil,  As  Sulaymaniyah,  and  Dahuk; 
by  and  large  they  did  not  move  to  the  major  urban  centers  such 
as  Mosul  and  Kirkuk. 

Statistical  details  of  the  impact  of  overcrowding  on  the  cities  were 
generally  lacking  in  the  1980s.  According  to  accounts  by  on-the- 
spot  observers,  in  Baghdad — and  presumably  in  the  other  cities 
as  well — there  appeared  to  have  been  no  systematic  planning  to 
cope  with  the  growth  of  slum  areas.  Expansion  in  the  capital  until 
the  mid-1970s  had  been  quite  haphazard.  As  a  result,  there  were 
many  open  spaces  between  buildings  and  quarters.  Thus,  the  squat- 
ter settlements  that  mushroomed  in  those  years  were  not  confined 
to  the  city's  fringes.  By  the  late  1950s,  the  sarifahs  (reed  and  mud 
huts)  in  Baghdad  were  estimated  to  number  44,000,  or  almost 
45  percent  of  the  total  number  of  houses  in  the  capital. 


106 


A  cafe  in  Baghdad 
Courtesy  Mokhless  Al- Hariri 


These  slums  became  a  special  target  of  Qasim's  government. 
Efforts  were  directed  at  improving  the  housing  and  living  condi- 
tions of  the  sarifah  dwellers.  Between  1961  and  1963,  many  of  these 
settlements  were  eliminated,  and  their  inhabitants  were  moved  to 
two  large  housing  projects  on  the  edge  of  the  city — Madinat  ath 
Thawra  and  An  Nur.  Schools  and  markets  were  also  built,  and 
sanitary  services  were  provided.  In  time,  however,  Madinat  ath 
Thawra  and  An  Nur,  too,  became  dilapidated,  and  just  before  the 
war  Saddam  Husayn  ordered  Madinat  ath  Thawra  rebuilt  as  Sad- 
dam City.  This  new  area  of  low  houses  and  wide  streets  has  radi- 
cally improved  the  life-styles  of  the  residents,  the  overwhelming 
majority  of  whom  were  Shias  who  had  migrated  from  the  south. 

Another  striking  feature  of  the  initial  waves  of  migration  to  Bagh- 
dad and  to  other  urban  centers  is  that  the  migrants  have  tended 
to  stay,  bringing  with  them  whole  families.  The  majority  of  migrants 
were  peasant  cultivators,  but  shopkeepers,  petty  traders,  and  small 
craftsmen  came  as  well.  Contacts  with  their  points  of  rural  origin 
were  not  totally  severed,  and  return  visits  were  fairly  common,  but 
reverse  migration  was  extremely  rare.  At  least  initially,  there  was 
a  pronounced  tendency  for  migrants  from  the  same  village  to  relo- 
cate in  clusters  to  ease  the  difficulties  of  transition  and  to  maintain 
traditional  patterns  of  mutual  assistance.  Whether  this  pattern  has 
continued  into  the  war  years  is  not  known,  but  it  seems  likely.  A 


107 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


number  of  observers  have  reported  neighborhoods  in  the  capital 
that  have  been  formed  on  the  basis  of  village  or  even  tribal  origin. 

An  instance  of  the  abrupt  population  shifts — although  in  the 
reverse  direction — was  that  of  the  Iraqi  Jews.  The  establishment 
of  the  state  of  Israel  led  to  the  mass  exodus  of  this  community  in 
1950,  to  be  replaced  by  Shia  merchants  and  traders,  many  of  whom 
were  descendants  of  Iranian  immigrants  from  the  heavily  Shia  popu- 
lated areas  of  the  south. 

The  urban  social  structure  has  evolved  gradually  over  the  years. 
In  prerevolutionary  Iraq  it  was  dominated  by  a  well-defined  rul- 
ing class  that  was  concentrated  in  Baghdad.  This  was  an  internally 
cohesive  group,  distinguished  from  the  rest  of  the  population  by 
its  considerable  wealth  and  political  power.  The  economic  base  of 
this  class  was  landed  wealth,  but  during  the  decades  of  the  British 
mandate  and  of  the  monarchy,  as  landlords  acquired  commercial 
interests  and  merchants  and  government  officials  acquired  real 
estate,  a  considerable  intertwining  of  families  and  interests  occurred. 
The  result  was  that  the  Iraqi  ruling  class  could  not  be  easily  sepa- 
rated into  constituent  parts:  the  largest  commercial  trading  houses 
were  controlled  by  families  owning  vast  estates;  the  landowners 
were  mostly  tribal  shaykhs  but  included  many  urban  notables, 
government  ministers,  and  civil  servants.  Moreover,  the  landown- 
ing class  controlled  the  parliament,  which  tended  to  function  in 
the  most  narrowly  conceived  interest  of  these  landlords. 

There  was  a  small  but  growing  middle  class  in  the  1950s  and 
the  1960s  that  included  a  traditional  core  of  merchants,  shopkeep- 
ers, craftsmen,  professionals,  and  government  officials,  their  num- 
bers augmented  increasingly  by  graduates  from  the  school  system. 
During  the  monarchy  education  had  been  the  only  area  that  was 
relatively  independent  of  British  advisers,  and  thus  it  was  expanded 
as  a  conspicuous  manifestation  of  government  response  to  popu- 
lar demand.  It  was  completely  oriented  toward  preparing  people 
for  white-collar,  middle-class  occupations.  Within  this  middle  class, 
and  closely  connected  to  the  commercial  sector,  was  a  small  indus- 
trial bourgeoisie  whose  interests  were  not  completely  identical  with 
those  of  the  more  traditional  sector. 

Iraq's  class  structure  at  midcentury  was  characterized  by  great 
instability.  In  addition  to  the  profound  changes  occurring  in  the 
countryside,  there  were  the  economic  and  social  disruptions  caused 
by  the  shortages  and  the  spiraling  inflation  brought  on  by  World 
War  II.  A  few  people  made  fortunes,  but  for  most  there  was  depri- 
vation and,  as  a  consequence,  there  was  great  social  unrest.  Long- 
time Western  observers  compared  the  situation  of  the  urban  masses 
unfavorably  with  conditions  in  the  last  years  of  Ottoman  rule. 


108 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  trend  of  urban  growth,  which  had  begun  in  the  days  imme- 
diately preceding  the  revolution,  took  off  in  the  mid-1970s,  when 
the  effects  of  the  sharp  increases  in  the  world  price  of  oil  began 
to  be  felt.  Oil  revenues  poured  into  the  cities,  where  they  were 
invested  in  construction  and  in  real  estate  speculation.  The  dis- 
satisfied peasantry  then  found  even  more  cause  to  move  to  the  cities 
because  jobs — mainly  in  construction — were  available,  and  even 
part-time,  unskilled  labor  was  an  improvement  over  conditions  in 
the  countryside. 

As  for  the  elite,  the  oil  boom  of  the  1970s  brought  greater  diver- 
sification of  wealth,  some  of  which  went  to  those  attached  to  the 
land,  and  some  to  those  involved  in  the  regime,  in  commerce,  and, 
increasingly,  in  manufacturing.  The  working  class  grew,  but  it  was 
largely  fragmented.  Only  a  relatively  small  number  were  employed 
in  businesses  with  ten  or  more  workers,  including  those  in  the  ser- 
vice sector.  Between  the  elite  and  the  working  masses  was  the  lower 
middle  class  of  petite  bourgeoisie.  This  traditional  component  con- 
sisted of  the  thousands  of  employees  of  small  handicraft  shops,  which 
made  up  a  huge  part  of  the  so-called  manufacturing  sector,  and 
the  even  more  numerous  owners  of  one-man  stores.  The  newer 
and  more  rapidly  expanding  part  of  this  class  consisted  of  profes- 
sionals and  semiprofessionals  who  were  employed  in  the  service 
and  public  sectors,  including  the  officer  corps,  and  the  thousands 
of  students  looking  for  jobs.  This  class  became  particularly  signifi- 
cant in  the  1980s  because  former  members  of  it  have  become  the 
nation's  elite.  Perhaps  the  most  important  aspect  of  the  growth  of 
the  public  sector  was  the  expansion  of  education  facilities,  which 
put  pressure  on  the  regime  to  find  white-collar  jobs  for  graduates 
in  the  noncommodity  sectors. 

Stratification  and  Social  Classes 

The  prerevolutionary  political  system,  with  its  parliament  of  land- 
lords and  hand-picked  government  supporters,  was  increasingly 
incompatible  with  the  changing  social  reality  that  accompanied 
growing  urban-based  economic  activity  fueled  by  oil  revenues.  The 
faction  of  the  elite  investing  in  manufacturing,  the  petite  bour- 
geoisie, and  the  working  classes  pressured  the  state  to  represent 
their  interests.  As  the  armed  forces  came  to  reflect  this  shift  in  the 
balance  of  social  forces,  radical  political  change  became  inevitable. 
The  social  origins  and  the  political  inclinations  of  the  Free  Officers 
(see  Glossary)  who  carried  out  the  1958  overthrow  of  the  monar- 
chy as  well  as  the  various  ideological  parties  that  supported  and 
succeeded  them  clearly  reflect  the  middle-class  character  of  the  Iraqi 
revolution.  Both  the  agrarian  reform  program  and  the  protracted 


109 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

campaign  against  the  foreign  oil  monopoly  were  aimed  at  restruc- 
turing political  and  eonomic  power  in  favor  of  the  urban-based  mid- 
dle and  lower  classes.  The  political  struggle  between  the  self-styled 
radicals  and  the  moderates  in  the  1960s  chiefly  concerned  the  role 
of  the  state  and  of  the  public  sector  in  the  economy:  the  radicals 
promoted  a  larger  role  for  the  state,  and  the  moderates  wanted  to 
restrict  it  to  the  provision  of  basic  services  and  of  physical  infra- 
structure. 

There  was  a  shift  in  the  distribution  of  income  after  1958  at  the 
expense  of  the  large  landowners  and  the  businessmen  and  in  favor 
of  the  salaried  middle  class  and,  to  a  lesser  degree,  the  wage  earn- 
ers and  small  farmers.  The  Baath  Party,  in  power  since  July  1968, 
represented  the  lower  stratum  of  the  middle  class,  the  sons  of  small 
shopkeepers  and  of  petty  officials,  and  the  graduates  of  training 
schools,  law  schools,  and  military  academies.  In  the  1980s,  the  rul- 
ing class  tended  to  be  composed  of  high-  and  middle-echelon 
bureaucrats  who  either  had  risen  through  the  ranks  of  the  party 
or  who  had  been  coopted  into  the  party  because  of  their  technical 
competence,  i.e.,  technocrats.  The  elite  also  consisted  of  army 
officers,  whose  wartime  loyalty  the  government  has  striven  to  retain 
by  dispensing  material  rewards  and  gifts. 

The  government's  practice  of  lavishing  rewards  on  the  military 
has  also  affected  the  lower  classes.  Martyrs'  benefits  under  the  Baath 
have  been  extremely  generous.  Thus,  the  families  of  youths  killed 
in  battle  could  expect  to  receive  at  least  an  automobile  and  more 
likely  a  generous  pension  for  life. 

Family  and  Society 

Kinship  groups  are  the  fundamental  social  units,  regulating  many 
activities  that  in  Westernized  societies  are  the  functions  of  politi- 
cal, economic,  religious,  or  neighborhood  groups.  Rights  and 
obligations  center  on  the  extended  family  and  on  the  lineage.  The 
family  remains  the  primary  focus  of  loyalty;  and  it  is  in  its  con- 
text, rather  than  in  the  broader  one  of  corporate  loyalties  defined 
by  sectarian,  ethnic,  or  economic  considerations,  that  the  majority 
of  Iraqis  find  the  common  denominators  of  their  everyday  lives. 
A  mutually  protective  attitude  among  relatives  is  taken  as  a  mat- 
ter of  course.  Relatives  tend  to  be  preferred  as  business  partners 
because  they  are  believed  to  be  more  reliable  than  people  over  whom 
one  does  not  have  the  hold  of  kinship  ties.  Deeply  ingrained  family 
loyalty  also  manifests  itself  at  higher  levels  of  business  and  public  life. 

The  characteristic  form  of  family  organization  involves  a  large 
group  of  kinsmen  who  are  related  to  one  another  through  descent 
and  marriage,  that  is,  an  extended  family  usually  consisting  of  three 


110 


Public  transportation  in  Baghdad 
Courtesy  Mokhless  A  I- Hariri 


generations.  The  members  of  such  an  extended  family  may  all  live 
together,  which  is  the  more  traditional  pattern,  or  they  may  reside 
in  separate  nuclear  families,  but  still  share  the  values  and  func- 
tions of  an  extended  family,  such  as  depending  upon  one  another 
and  deferring  to  the  older  generations.  As  Iraqi  society  has  become 
increasingly  urbanized,  however,  the  tendency  toward  nuclear 
family  social  organization,  as  opposed  to  mere  nuclear  family  resi- 
dence, has  become  more  prevalent.  The  status  of  an  individual  is 
traditionally  determined  by  the  position  of  his  or  her  family  in 
society  and  the  individual's  position  within  that  group.  The  family 
transmits  the  values  and  the  standards  of  behavior  of  the  society 
to  its  members,  and  it  holds  them  responsible  for  each  other's  con- 
duct. It  traditionally  determines  occupations  and  selects  marriage 
partners.  Kinsmen  also  cooperate  in  economic  endeavors,  such  as 
farming  or  trade,  and  ownership  of  land  and  other  assets  frequently 
is  vested  in  the  group  as  a  whole.  The  sharpest  degree  of  diver- 
gence from  these  patterns  occurs  among  educated,  urban  Iraqis, 
an  ever-increasing  proportion  of  the  society. 

Until  1959,  family  life  was  subject  only  to  the  regulation  of  reli- 
gious law  and  of  tradition.  All  Muslims  were  brought  under  a  sin- 
gle body  of  family  law  for  the  first  time  in  1959  with  the  enactment 
of  a  secular  law  on  personal  status,  based  on  sharia,  statutes  from 
other  Islamic  countries,  and  legal  precedents  established  in  Iraqi 


111 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

courts;  a  brief  amendment  of  the  law  was  enacted  in  1963.  The 
law  spells  out  provisions  governing  the  right  to  contract  marriage, 
the  nature  of  the  contract,  the  economic  rights  of  the  partners, 
divorce  and  child  custody,  as  well  as  bequests  and  inheritance. 

The  basic  structural  unit  of  the  family  consists  of  a  senior  cou- 
ple, their  sons,  the  sons'  wives  and  children,  and  unmarried  daugh- 
ters. Other  dependent  relatives  may  also  be  attached  to  the  group. 
The  senior  male  is  the  head  of  the  family;  he  manages  its  proper- 
ties and  has  the  final  voice  in  decisions.  Kinsmen  are  organized 
into  still  larger  groups.  The  next  level  of  organization  is  the  line- 
age, composed  of  all  persons,  male  and  female,  who  trace  their 
descent  from  a  common  ancestor.  The  number  of  generations  by 
which  this  ancestor  is  removed  from  the  oldest  living  one  varies; 
a  depth  of  four  to  six  generations  is  usual. 

Individuals  or  whole  families  of  other  descent  sometimes  attach 
themselves  to  a  particular  lineage  in  an  arrangement  of  mutual 
advantage,  becoming  recognized  after  several  generations  as  full 
members  of  the  lineage  on  equal  terms  with  those  born  into  it.  In 
small  villages,  most  people  are  likely  to  belong  to  the  same  lineage; 
in  larger  ones,  two  or  more  lineages  may  be  represented,  but  lin- 
eage ties  are  tempered  by  economic  cooperation,  by  intermarriage, 
and  by  the  authority  of  the  village  leadership  or  elders.  Among 
nontribal  Iraqis,  kinship  organization  and  traditions  of  common 
descent  do  not  go  beyond  the  lineage.  Awareness  of  distant  ties 
is  keen  among  recent  migrants  to  the  cities  and  among  the  rural 
population. 

In  rural  areas,  new  households  are  not  usually  set  up  until  many 
years  after  the  initial  recognition  of  a  marriage.  In  general,  the 
wife  moves  in  with  her  husband's  parents,  where  the  young  cou- 
ple remains  for  some  time.  Often  this  arrangement  is  maintained 
until  the  death  of  the  father.  Even  when  the  father  dies,  the  brothers 
sometimes  stay  together,  forming  joint  family  households  that 
include  themselves,  their  wives,  and  their  children. 

The  actual  number  of  persons  who  make  up  the  household  is 
determined  by  the  family's  economic  circumstances,  its  pattern  of 
living,  and  its  mode  of  habitation.  In  an  agricultural  setting,  as 
long  as  ownership  of  land  and  other  possessions  is  vested  in  the 
family  as  a  whole,  the  possibilities  for  a  young  man's  being  able 
to  set  up  an  independent  household  are  limited.  In  urban  centers, 
on  the  other  hand,  young  men  can  avail  themselves  of  wage-earning 
employment. 

Authority  within  the  family  is  determined  by  seniority  and  by 
gender.  The  father,  in  theory,  has  absolute  authority  over  the  activi- 
ties of  the  members  of  the  household,  both  within  the  confines  of 


112 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  house  and  outside  it.  He  decides  what  education  his  children 
will  receive,  what  occupations  his  sons  will  enter,  and,  usually  in 
consultation  with  his  wife,  whom  his  children  will  marry.  These 
authority  patterns  also  have  been  greatly  weakened  in  the  urban 
environment  and  by  the  shift  of  more  and  more  responsibilities 
from  the  family  to  larger  social  institutions,  such  as  the  schools. 

An  even  greater  change  in  the  traditional  pattern  of  male  domi- 
nance has  been  brought  about  by  the  war.  Because  Iraq  is  numeri- 
cally a  much  smaller  nation  than  Iran,  it  has  experienced 
considerable  difficulty  in  maintaining  an  adequate  defense  on  the 
battlefront.  In  order  to  field  a  sufficient  force,  it  has  had  to  draw 
down  the  available  labor  pool  on  the  home  front,  and,  to  compen- 
sate for  this,  it  has  mobilized  women.  In  the  mid-1980s,  observers 
reported  that  in  many  ministries  the  overwhelming  proportion  of 
employees  were  women.  Foreign  contractors  have  encountered 
women  supervisors  on  huge  construction  projects,  women  doctors 
in  the  hospitals,  and  even  women  performing  law  enforcement  roles. 
This  emancipation — extraordinary  for  an  Arab  country — was  sanc- 
tioned by  the  government,  which  issued  a  significant  amount  of 
propaganda  publicizing  the  role  of  women  in  helping  to  win  the 
war.  The  government  further  maintained  that  after  the  war  women 
would  be  encouraged  to  retain  their  newfound  work  roles;  this  was 
doubtful,  however,  because  in  the  same  breath  the  government 
declared  its  determination  to  increase  the  birthrate. 

The  Muslim  majority  has  traditionally  regarded  marriage  as 
primarily  a  civil  contract  between  two  families,  arranged  by  par- 
ents after  negotiations  that  may  be  prolonged  and  conducted  by 
an  intermediary.  The  arrangement  of  a  marriage  is  a  family  mat- 
ter in  which  the  needs  and  the  position  of  the  corporate  kin  group 
are  primary  considerations.  Prospective  partners  are  often  known 
to  each  other,  and  they  frequently  come  from  the  same  village  and 
the  same  kin  group.  Among  educated  urban  dwellers,  the  tradi- 
tional pattern  of  contracting  marriage  is  giving  way  to  a  pattern 
in  which  the  young  people  make  their  own  choices,  but  parents 
must  still  approve. 

With  regard  to  marriage  and  to  divorce,  the  1959  Law  of  Per- 
sonal Status,  amended  in  1963,  liberalized  various  provisions  that 
affected  the  status  of  women;  in  practice,  however,  the  Iraqi 
judiciary  up  until  the  revolution  tended  to  be  conservative  in 
applying  the  provisions  of  the  law.  Specifically,  Iraqi  law  required 
that  divorce  proceedings  be  initiated  in  a  court  of  law,  but  the  hus- 
band still  had  the  controlling  role  in  dissolving  the  marriage.  A 
man  who  wanted  to  marry  a  second  wife  was  required  first  to  get 
approval  from  the  court.  Provision  was  also  made  for  the  custody 


113 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

of  children  to  be  based  on  consideration  of  the  welfare  of  the 
child. 

Economic  motivation  and  considerations  of  prestige  and  of  family 
strength  all  contribute  to  the  high  value  placed  on  large  families. 
The  greater  the  number  of  children,  especially  sons,  the  greater 
the  prestige  of  the  father,  and,  through  him,  that  of  the  family  as 
a  whole.  Boys  are  especially  welcome  because  they  are  the  carriers 
of  the  family  tradition,  and  because  their  economic  contribution 
in  an  agricultural  society  is  greater  than  that  of  girls. 

Between  the  ages  of  three  and  of  six,  children  are  given  free- 
dom to  learn  by  imitating  older  siblings.  Strong  emphasis  is  then 
placed  on  conformity  with  elders'  patterns  and  on  loyalty  and 
obedience.  Family  solidarity  is  stressed.  The  passage  from  adoles- 
cence to  maturity  is  swift.  Upon  reaching  puberty,  there  tradition- 
ally is  a  separation  of  sexes,  and  girls  are  excluded  from  male  society 
except  that  of  their  close  kin.  Great  emphasis  is  placed  on  premarital 
chastity,  and  this  is  one  reason  for  early  marriages.  Boys  have 
greater  freedom  during  adolescence  than  girls,  and  at  this  time  they 
begin  to  be  drawn  into  the  company  of  their  fathers  and  into  the 
world  of  men. 

Education  and  Welfare 
Education 

The  impact  of  government  policies  on  the  class  structure  and 
on  its  stratification  patterns  can  be  imputed  from  available  statis- 
tics on  education  and  training  as  well  as  on  employment  and  wage 
structures.  Owing  to  the  historic  emphasis  on  the  expansion  of  edu- 
cation facilities,  the  leaders  of  the  Baath  Party  and,  indeed,  much 
of  Iraq's  urban  middle  class  were  able  to  move  from  rural  or  urban 
lower  class  origins  to  middle  and  even  to  top  positions  in  the  state 
apparatus,  the  public  sector,  and  the  society  at  large. 

This  social  history  is  reflected  in  the  efforts  of  the  government 
to  generalize  opportunities  for  basic  education  throughout  the  coun- 
try. Between  the  1976-77  and  the  1985-86  school  years,  the  num- 
ber of  primary- school  students  increased  44  percent,  and  the 
number  of  female  students  increased  from  35  to  45  percent  of  the 
total.  The  number  of  primary- school  teachers  grew  67  percent  dur- 
ing this  period.  At  the  secondary  level,  the  number  of  students 
increased  87  percent,  and  the  number  of  female  students  increased 
from  30  to  36  percent  of  the  total  (see  table  4,  Appendix). 

Education  was  provided  by  the  government  through  a  centrally 
organized  school  system.  In  the  early  1980s,  the  system  included 
a  six-year  primary  (or  elementary)  level  known  as  the  first  level. 


114 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

The  second  level,  also  of  six  years,  consisted  of  an  intermediate- 
secondary  level  and  an  intermediate-preparatory  level,  each  of  three 
years.  Graduates  of  these  schools  could  enroll  in  a  vocational  school, 
in  one  of  the  teacher  training  schools  or  institutes,  or  in  one  of  the 
various  colleges,  universities,  or  technical  institutes. 

The  number  of  students  enrolled  in  primary  and  in  secondary 
schools  was  highest  in  the  central  region  and  lowest  in  the  north, 
although  the  enrollment  in  the  northern  schools  was  only  slightly 
lower  than  that  in  the  southern.  Before  the  war,  the  government 
had  made  considerable  gains  in  lessening  the  extreme  concentra- 
tion of  primary  and  of  secondary  educational  facilities  in  the  main 
cities,  notably  Baghdad.  Vocational  education,  which  had  been 
notoriously  inadequate  in  Iraq,  received  considerable  official  atten- 
tion in  the  1980s.  The  number  of  students  in  technical  fields  has 
increased  more  than  300  percent  since  1976-77,  to  more  than 
120,090  in  the  academic  year  1985-86. 

The  Baath  regime  also  seemed  to  have  made  progress  since  the 
late  1960s  in  reducing  regional  disparities,  although  these  were  far 
from  being  eliminated  and  no  doubt  were  more  severe  than  statis- 
tics would  suggest.  Baghdad,  for  example,  was  the  home  of  most 
education  facilities  above  the  secondary  level;  it  was  the  site  not 
only  of  the  University  of  Baghdad,  which  in  the  academic  year 
1985-86  (the  most  recent  year  for  which  statistics  were  available 
in  early  1988)  had  44,307  students,  but  also  of  the  Foundation  of 
Technical  Institutes  with  34,858  students,  the  University  of  Al 
Mustansiriyah  with  14,886  students,  and  the  University  of  Tech- 
nology with  7,378  students.  The  University  of  Basra,  the  Univer- 
sity of  Mosul,  and  the  University  of  Salah  ad  Din  in  Irbil,  taken 
together,  enrolled  28  percent  of  all  students  in  higher  education 
in  the  academic  year  1985-86. 

The  number  of  students  seeking  to  pursue  higher  education  in 
the  1980s  increased  dramatically.  Accordingly,  in  the  mid-1980s 
the  government  made  plans  to  expand  the  University  of  Salah  ad 
Din.  In  addition,  in  January  1988,  the  government  created  four 
more  public  universities,  at  Tikrit  in  the  central  area,  at  Al  Kufah 
and  at  Al  Qadisiyah  in  the  south,  and  at  Al  Anbar  in  the  west. 
Details  of  these  universities  were  not  known. 

The  outbreak  of  the  war  posed  a  difficult  dilemma  for  the  govern- 
ment regarding  education.  Despite  the  shortage  of  wartime  man- 
power, the  regime  was  unwilling  to  tap  the  pool  of  available 
university  students,  arguing  that  these  young  people  were  Iraq's 
hope  for  the  future.  As  of  early  1988,  therefore,  the  government 
routinely  exempted  students  from  military  service  until  gradua- 
tion, a  policy  it  has  adhered  to  rigorously.  This  policy,  however, 


116 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


has  probably  caused  resentment  among  the  poorer  classes  and 
among  those  forced  to  serve  multiple  tours  at  the  front  because  of 
continuing  manpower  shortages. 

Health 

In  the  1980s,  almost  all  medical  facilities  continued  to  be  con- 
trolled by  the  government,  and  most  physicians  were  Ministry  of 
Health  officials.  Curative  and  preventive  medical  services  in 
government-controlled  hospitals  and  dispensaries  as  well  as  the  ser- 
vices of  government  physicians  were  free  of  charge.  The  ministry 
included  the  directorates  of  health,  preventive  medicine,  medical 
supplies,  rural  health  services,  and  medical  services.  The  inspec- 
tor general  of  health,  under  the  ministry,  was  charged  with  the 
enforcement  of  health  laws  and  regulations.  Private  medical  prac- 
tice and  private  hospitals  and  clinics  were  subject  to  government 
supervision.  In  each  province,  Ministry  of  Health  functions  were 
carried  out  by  a  chief  medical  officer  who,  before  the  war,  frequentiy 
had  a  private  practice  to  supplement  his  government  salary.  Provin- 
cial medical  officers  were  occupied  mainly  with  administrative  duties 
in  hospitals,  clinics,  and  dispensaries.  The  work  of  medical  officers 
in  the  rural  areas  before  the  war  was  seriously  curtailed  by  lack 
of  transportation. 

One  of  the  most  serious  problems  facing  the  Ministry  of  Health 
in  the  prewar  period  was  its  shortage  of  trained  personnel.  The 
shortage  was  accentuated  by  the  fact  that  most  medical  personnel 
tended  to  be  concentrated  in  the  major  cities,  such  as  Baghdad  and 
Basra.  Physicians  trained  at  government  expense  were  required 
to  spend  four  years  in  the  public  health  service,  but  they  strongly 
resisted  appointments  to  posts  outside  the  cities  and  made  every 
effort  to  return  to  Baghdad. 

In  1985,  the  latest  year  for  which  detailed  statistics  were  avail- 
able in  early  1988,  Baghdad  Governorate,  which  had  about  24  per- 
cent of  the  population,  had  just  over  36  percent  of  the  country's 
hospital  beds,  18  percent  of  the  government  clinics,  and  31  per- 
cent of  the  paramedical  personnel.  The  increasing  number  of  clinics 
in  the  provinces  brought  some  rudimentary  health  care  within  reach 
of  the  rural  population.  At  the  same  time,  given  the  unsettled  con- 
ditions in  the  Kurdish  areas,  it  was  likely  that  health  care  in  the 
northern  provinces  had  deteriorated  since  the  start  of  the  war  (see 
table  5,  Appendix). 

Published  information  concerning  sanitation  and  endemic 
diseases  was  scanty.  Reportedly,  in  the  mid-1980s  Iraq  had  a 
high  incidence  of  trachoma,  influenza,  measles,  whooping  cough, 
and  tuberculosis;  it  had,  however,  made  substantial  progress  in 


117 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

controlling  malaria.  Prior  to  the  war,  poor  sanitation  and  polluted 
water  sources  were  principal  factors  in  the  spread  of  disease.  A  large 
percentage  of  the  population  lived  in  villages  and  in  towns  that  were 
along  irrigation  canals  and  along  rivers  polluted  with  human  and 
animal  wastes.  These  waterways,  together  with  the  stagnant  pools 
of  water  that  sometimes  constituted  the  village  reservoir,  were  the 
major  sources  of  drinking  water  and  of  water  for  bathing,  laun- 
dering, and  washing  food.  The  periodic  flooding  of  rivers  contami- 
nated water  supplies  and  spread  waterborne  diseases. 

The  Tigris  and  Euphrates  rivers  and  their  tributaries  serve  as 
water  sources  for  Baghdad  and  for  some  of  the  major  provincial 
towns.  Irbil  and  As  Sulaymaniyah,  located  in  the  northern  moun- 
tains, have  adequate  supplies  of  spring  water.  In  Basra,  Mosul, 
and  Kirkuk  the  water  is  stored  in  elevated  tanks  and  is  chemically 
treated  before  distribution.  In  Baghdad,  the  water  is  filtered,  chlo- 
rinated, and  piped  into  homes  or  into  communal  fountains  located 
throughout  the  city.  In  the  smaller  towns,  however,  the  water  supply 
is  unprotected  and  is  only  rarely  tested  for  potability. 

Welfare 

Iraq,  with  its  socialist  economy,  pays  considerable  attention  to 
welfare.  This  regard  for  social  benefits  has  been  increased  by  the 
war.  No  statistics  were  available  in  early  1988  by  which  to  judge 
the  scope  of  benefits  paid  by  the  government  to  its  servicemen  and 
to  their  families.  Nonetheless,  journalistic  reports  indicated  that 
martyrs'  benefits — for  the  families  of  war  dead — and  subsidies  for 
young  men  who  volunteer  for  service  tended  to  be  extremely  gener- 
ous. A  family  that  had  lost  a  son  in  the  fighting  could  expect  to 
be  subsidized  for  life;  in  addition,  it  was  likely  to  receive  loans  from 
the  state  bank  on  easy  terms  and  gifts  of  real  estate. 

Minimal  information  was  available  in  early  1988  concerning 
social  welfare  coverage.  The  most  recent  published  data  was  that 
for  1985,  when  the  government  gave  a  figure  of  703,776  workers. 
In  addition,  pensions  were  paid  to  retirees  and  to  disabled  persons, 
and  compensation  was  given  to  workers  for  maternity  and  for  sick 
leave.  Observers  anticipated  that  once  the  war  with  Iran  ended, 
the  government  would  devote  greater  attention  to  improving  health 
and  social  welfare  services. 

*     *  * 

Although  a  number  of  first  rate  military  analyses  of  Iraq  and 
of  the  war  have  appeared  since  1980,  there  has  been  little  useful 
research  on  social  change.  Much  of  the  information  that  would  make 


118 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


up  such  studies  has  been  withheld  by  the  government  because  of 
wartime  censorship,  and  in  some  cases  material  that  has  been  made 
available  appears  to  be  untrustworthy.  A  number  of  classics,  there- 
fore, continue  to  be  required  reading  for  those  interested  in  the 
society  of  Iraq.  Wilfred  Thesiger's  The  Marsh  Arabs  graphically 
depicts  life  among  the  southern  Shias  in  the  mid-and  late  1950s. 
Robert  Fernea's  Shaykh  and  Effendi  describes  social  conditions  in 
the  central  Euphrates  valley  and  Elizabeth  Fernea's  Guests  of the 
Sheik  deals  with  the  role  of  women  particularly.  A  classic  historical 
treatment  of  the  Kurdish  question  is  found  in  Edmund  Ghareeb's 
The  Kurdish  Question  in  Iraq.  The  latest  work  on  the  subject  is  The 
Kurds:  An  Unstable  Element  in  the  Gulf 'by  Stephen  Pelletiere.  For  an 
excellent  treatment  of  the  Baathist  elite  see  The  Old  Social  Classes 
and  the  Revolutionary  Movements  of  Iraq  by  Hanna  Batatu.  Also  on 
the  same  topic  is  Iraq,  Eastern  Flank  of  the  Arab  World  by  Christine 
Helms.  For  the  best  all-around  treatment  of  Iraq  in  the  recent 
period,  see  Phebe  Marr's  The  Modern  History  of  Iraq.  (For  further 
information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


119 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Watermelons  for  sale  in  the  marketplace 


FOLLOWING  THE  1968  Baath  (Arab  Socialist  Resurrection) 
Party  revolution,  Iraq's  government  pursued  a  socialist  economic 
policy.  For  more  than  a  decade,  the  economy  prospered,  primarily 
because  of  massive  infusions  of  cash  from  oil  exports.  Despite  a 
quadrupling  of  imports  between  1978  and  1980,  Iraq  continued 
to  accrue  current  account  surpluses  in  excess  of  US$10  billion  per 
year.  In  1980  on  the  eve  of  the  outbreak  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War, 
Iraq  held  reserves  estimated  at  US$35  billion.  When  Iraq  launched 
the  war  against  Iran  in  1980,  the  Iraqis  incorrectly  calculated  that 
they  could  force  a  quick  Iranian  capitulation  and  could  annex  Ira- 
nian territory  at  little  cost  in  either  men  or  money.  Using  a  num- 
ber of  means,  Iraq  opted  to  keep  the  human  costs  of  the  war  as 
low  as  possible,  both  on  the  battlefield  and  on  the  home  front.  In 
battle,  Iraq  attempted  to  keep  casualties  low  by  expending  and  by 
losing  vast  amounts  of  materiel.  Behind  the  lines,  Iraq  attempted 
to  insulate  citizens  from  the  effects  of  the  war  and  to  head  off  pub- 
lic protest  in  two  ways.  First,  the  government  provided  a  benefits 
package  worth  tens  of  thousands  of  dollars  to  the  surviving  rela- 
tives of  each  soldier  killed  in  action.  The  government  also  com- 
pensated property  owners  for  the  full  value  of  property  destroyed 
in  the  war.  Second,  the  government  adopted  a  "guns  and  butter" 
strategy.  Along  with  the  war,  the  government  launched  an  eco- 
nomic development  campaign  of  national  scope,  employing 
immigrant  laborers  to  replace  Iraqi  fighting  men. 

In  1981,  foreign  expenditures  not  directly  related  to  the  war  effort 
peaked  at  an  all-time  high  of  US$23.6  billion,  as  Iraq  continued 
to  import  goods  and  services  for  the  development  effort,  and  con- 
struction continued  unabated.  Additionally,  Iraq  was  paying  an 
estimated  US$25  million  per  day  to  wage  the  war.  Although  the 
Persian  Gulf  states  contributed  US$5  billion  toward  the  war  effort 
from  1980  to  1981,  Iraq  raised  most  of  the  money  needed  for  war 
purposes  by  drawing  down  its  reserves  over  several  years.  Iraq  could 
not  replenish  its  reserves  because  most  of  its  oil  terminals  were 
destroyed  by  Iran  in  the  opening  days  of  the  war.  Iraqi  exports 
dropped  by  60  percent  in  1981 ,  and  they  were  cut  further  in  1982 
when  Syria,  acting  in  accord  with  Iran,  closed  the  vital  Iraqi  oil 
export  pipeline  running  through  Syrian  territory. 

The  total  cost  of  the  war  to  Iraq's  economy  was  difficult  to  mea- 
sure. A  1987  study  by  the  Japanese  Institute  of  Middle  Eastern 
Economies  estimated  total  Iraqi  war  losses  from  1980  to  1985  at 


123 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

US$226  billion.  This  figure  was  disaggregated  into  US$120.8  bil- 
lion in  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  lost  in  the  oil 
sector,  US$64  billion  GDP  lost  in  the  nonoil  sector,  US$33  billion 
lost  in  destroyed  materiel,  and  US$8.2  billion  lost  in  damage  to 
non-oil  sector  fixed  capital  investment.  Included  in  the  lost  GDP 
was  US$65.5  in  lost  oil  revenues  and  US$43.4  billion  in  unreal- 
ized fixed  capital  investment. 

As  the  1980s  progressed,  the  Iran-Iraq  conflict  evolved  into  a 
protracted  war  of  attrition,  in  which  Iran  threatened  to  overwhelm 
Iraq  by  sheer  economic  weight  and  manpower.  Although  Iraq 
implemented  some  cost-cutting  measures,  the  government  feared 
that  an  austerity  plan  would  threaten  its  stability,  so  it  turned  to 
outside  sources  to  finance  the  war.  Iraq's  Persian  Gulf  neighbors 
assumed  a  larger  share  of  the  economic  burden  of  the  war,  but  as 
the  price  of  oil  skidded  in  the  mid-1980s,  this  regional  support  of 
Iraq  diminished.  For  the  first  time,  Iraq  turned  to  Western  credi- 
tors to  finance  its  deficit  spending.  Iraq's  leadership  calculated  cor- 
rectly that  foreign  lenders,  both  government  and  private,  would 
be  willing  to  provide  loans  and  trade  credit  to  preserve  their  access 
to  the  Iraqi  economy,  which  would  emerge  as  a  major  market  and 
an  oil  supplier  after  the  war.  But  the  sustained  slump  in  oil  prices 
made  foreign  creditors  more  skeptical  of  Iraq's  long-term  economic 
prospects,  and  some  lenders  apparently  concluded  that  providing 
more  loans  to  Iraq  amounted  to  throwing  good  money  after  bad. 
Some  creditors  were  also  wary  of  Iraq's  postwar  prospects  because 
of  Iranian  demands  for  tens  of  billions  of  dollars  in  reparations  as 
the  price  for  any  peace  settlement.  Although  Iraq  would  probably 
pay  only  a  fraction  of  the  reparations  demanded  (and  that,  most 
likely,  with  the  help  of  other  Persian  Gulf  countries),  a  large  set- 
tlement would  nonetheless  delay  Iraq's  postwar  economic  recovery. 

In  1988,  as  the  war  entered  its  eighth  year  and  Iraq's  debt  topped 
US$50  billion,  the  government  was  implementing  comprehensive 
economic  reforms  it  had  announced  in  1987.  Iraq's  new  economic 
policy  was  designed  to  reverse  twenty  years  of  socialism  by  relin- 
quishing considerable  state  control  over  the  economy  to  the  pri- 
vate sector.  It  was  not  immediately  clear  if  this  move  would  result 
in  a  fundamental  and  enduring  restructuring  of  Iraq's  economy, 
or  if  it  was  merely  a  stopgap  measure  to  boost  productivity,  to 
cut  costs,  to  tap  private  sector  savings,  and  to  reassure  Western 
creditors. 

Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy 

In  the  1960s,  investment  in  industry  accounted  for  almost  one- 
quarter  of  the  development  budget,  about  twice  the  amount  spent 


124 


The  Economy 


under  the  monarchy  in  the  1950s.  After  the  1968  Baath  revolu- 
tion, the  share  allocated  to  industrial  development  grew  to  about 
30  percent  of  development  spending.  With  the  advent  of  the  Iran- 
Iraq  War,  however,  this  share  decreased  to  about  18  percent.  Devel- 
opment expenditure  on  agriculture  fell  from  about  40  percent  under 
the  prerevolutionary  regime  to  about  20  percent  under  the  Baath 
regime  in  the  early  1970s.  By  1982,  investment  in  agriculture  was 
down  to  10  percent  of  the  development  budget. 

Total  Iraqi  GDP,  as  well  as  sectoral  contribution  to  GDP,  could 
only  be  estimated  in  the  1980s.  On  the  eve  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War, 
the  petroleum  sector  dominated  the  economy,  accounting  for  two- 
thirds  of  GDP.  The  outbreak  of  war  curtailed  oil  production,  and 
by  1983  petroleum  contributed  only  one-third  of  GDP.  The  non- 
petroleum  sector  of  the  economy  also  shrank,  and,  as  a  consequence, 
total  real  GDP  dropped  about  15  percent  per  year  from  1981  to 
1983.  To  a  lesser  extent,  nominal  GDP  also  shrank,  from  about 
US$20  billion  to  US$18  billion,  an  indication  of  high  wartime  infla- 
tion. The  decline  in  GDP  was  reversed  between  1984  and  1986, 
when  oil  production  grew  at  about  24  percent  per  year  as  the 
government  secured  oudets  and  resumed  exports.  But  over  the  same 
period,  the  nonpetroleum  sector  of  the  economy  continued  to  con- 
tract by  about  6  percent  per  year,  offsetting  gains  from  increased 
oil  production.  In  1986,  the  petroleum  sector  revived  to  the  extent 
that  it  contributed  about  33.5  percent  of  GDP,  while  the  nonpetro- 
leum sector,  including  services,  manufacturing,  and  agriculture, 
accounted  for  the  remainder.  Business  services,  the  largest  com- 
ponent of  nonpetroleum  GDP,  amounted  to  about  23  percent  of 
GDP.  Agriculture  accounted  for  about  7.5  percent  of  GDP,  min- 
ing and  manufacturing  for  slightly  less  than  7  percent,  construc- 
tion for  almost  12  percent,  transportation  and  communications  for 
about  4.5  percent,  and  utilities  for  between  1  and  2  percent.  The 
total  estimated  GDP  for  1986  was  equivalent  to  US$35  billion. 

Projections  based  on  economic  trends  indicated  that  total  GDP 
would  grow  about  6  percent  annually  over  the  five-year  period  from 
1987  to  1991.  In  fact,  however,  1987  GDP  was  estimated  at  a 
1.7  percent  real  growth  rate.  The  petroleum  sector  would  continue 
to  grow,  although  at  a  slower  rate  of  about  8  percent  per  year,  and 
it  would  account  for  more  than  half  of  GDP.  The  nonpetroleum 
sector  was  expected  to  resume  modest  growth  in  1987.  Construc- 
tion would  be  the  fastest  growing  sector,  at  about  7  percent  per 
year.  Agriculture  would  grow  only  marginally,  and  therefore  its 
share  of  overall  GDP  would  decline  from  1986  levels.  Other  non- 
petroleum sectors  would  grow  at  a  rate  of  between  3  and  4  percent 
per  year  and,  because  these  projected  growth  rates  were  smaller 


125 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

than  the  overall  GDP  growth  rate,  would  likewise  decline  as  a  per- 
centage of  total  GDP. 

In  early  1988,  Iraq's  total  external  liabilities  were  difficult  to 
determine  accurately  because  the  Iraqi  government  did  not  pub- 
lish official  information  on  its  debt.  Moreover,  Iraqi  debt  was 
divided  into  a  number  of  overlapping  categories  according  to  the 
type  of  lender,  the  terms  of  disbursement  or  servicing,  and  the  dis- 
position of  the  funds.  For  example,  some  loans  were  combined  with 
aid  grants  in  mixed  credits,  and  some  loans  were  authorized  but 
never  disbursed.  And,  in  a  process  of  constant  negotiation  with 
its  creditors,  Iraq  had  deferred  payment  by  rescheduling  loans. 
Finally,  some  loans  were  partially  repaid  with  oil  in  counter- trade 
and  barter  agreements.  Nevertheless,  experts  estimated  that  Iraqi 
debt  in  1986  totaled  between  US$50  billion  and  US$80  billion.  Of 
this  total,  Iraq  owed  about  US$30  billion  to  Saudi  Arabia,  Kuwait, 
and  the  other  Gulf  states.  Most  of  this  amount  was  derived  from 
crude  oil  sales  on  Iraq's  behalf.  Iraq  promised  to  provide  reim- 
bursement in  oil  after  the  war,  but  the  Gulf  states  were  expected 
to  waive  repayment. 

A  second  important  category  of  debt  was  that  owed  to  official 
export  credit  agencies.  The  authoritative  Wharton  Econometric 
Forecasting  Associates  estimated  in  1 986  that  Iraqi  debt  guaranteed 
by  export  credit  agencies  totalled  US$9.3  billion,  of  which  US$1.6 
billion  was  short-term  debt  and  US$7.7  billion  was  medium-term 
debt. 

In  the  category  of  private  sector  debts,  Iraq  owed  up  to  US$7 
billion  to  private  companies  that  had  not  secured  the  trade  credit 
they  extended  to  Iraq  with  their  government  export  credit  agen- 
cies. The  firms  that  were  owed  the  most  were  based  in  Turkey, 
in  the  Republic  of  Korea  (South  Korea),  and  in  India,  which  lacked 
access  to  official  export  credit  guarantees.  European  companies  were 
also  owed  large  amounts.  By  the  late  1980s,  Iraq  had  placed  a  pri- 
ority on  settling  these  private  sector  debts.  In  addition,  Iraq  owed 
an  estimated  US$6.8  billion  to  commercial  banks  as  of  mid- 1986, 
although  much  of  this  sum  was  guaranteed  by  government  export 
credit  agencies. 

In  the  realm  of  government  debts,  Iraq  had  accrued  considera- 
ble debts  to  Western  governments  for  its  purchases  of  military 
materiel.  Iraq  owed  France  more  than  US$1 .35  billion  for  weapons, 
which  it  was  repaying  by  permitting  Elf-Aquitaine  and  Compagnie 
Francaise  des  Petroles-Total  (CFP) — two  oil  companies  affiliated  with 
the  French  government — to  lift  80,000  barrels  of  oil  per  day  from 
the  Dortyol  terminal  near  Iskenderun,  Turkey.  Finally,  Iraq 
owed  money  to  the  Soviet  Union  and  to  East  European  nations. 


126 


The  Economy 


Iraq's  debt  to  the  Soviet  Union  was  estimated  at  US$5  billion  in 
1987. 

The  Role  of  Government 

Following  the  Baath  Party's  accession  to  power  in  1968,  the  gov- 
ernment began  using  central  planning  to  manage  the  national  econ- 
omy. The  government  separated  its  expenditures  into  three 
categories:  an  annual  expenditure  budget  for  government  opera- 
tions, an  annual  investment  budget  to  achieve  the  goals  of  the  five- 
year  plans,  and  an  annual  import  budget.  Economic  planning  was 
regarded  as  a  state  prerogative,  and  thus  economic  plans  were  con- 
sidered state  secrets.  The  government  rarely  published  budget  or 
planning  information,  although  information  on  specific  projects, 
on  total  investment  goals,  and  on  productivity  was  occasionally 
released. 

Extremely  high  revenues  from  oil  exports  in  the  1970s  made 
budgeting  and  development  planning  almost  irrelevant  in  Iraq.  The 
responsibility  of  the  state  was  not  so  much  to  allocate  scarce 
resources  as  to  distribute  the  wealth,  and  economic  planning  was 
concerned  more  with  social  welfare  and  subsidization  than  with 
economic  efficiency.  One  consistent  and  very  costly  development 
goal  was  to  reduce  the  economy's  dependence  on  a  single  extrac- 
tive commodity — oil — and,  in  particular,  to  foster  heavy  industry. 
Despite  this  objective,  in  1978  the  government  began  an  attempt 
to  rationalize  the  non-oil  sector.  The  process  of  cost-cutting  and 
streamlining  entailed  putting  a  ceiling  on  subsidization  by  mak- 
ing state-run  industries  and  commercial  operations  semiautono- 
mous.  The  expenditures  of  such  public  entities  were  not  aggregated 
into  the  governmental  expenditure  budget.  Instead,  state-run  com- 
panies were  given  their  own  budgets  in  an  attempt  to  make  them 
more  efficient. 

Because  Iraqi  economic  development  planning  was  predicated 
on  massive  expenditure,  the  onset  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War  in  1980 
brought  central  planning  to  an  impasse.  Despite  an  effort  to  main- 
tain the  momentum  of  its  earlier  development  spending,  the  govern- 
ment was  forced  to  revert  to  ad  hoc  planning  as  it  adjusted  to  limited 
resources  and  to  deficit  spending.  Economic  planning  became  not 
just  a  perceived  national  security  issue,  but  a  real  one,  as  the  govern- 
ment devoted  its  attention  and  managerial  resources  to  obtaining 
credits.  The  Fourth  Five- Year  Plan  (1981-85)  was  suspended,  and 
as  of  early  1988,  the  Fifth  Five-Year  Plan  (1986-90)  had  not  been 
formulated. 

In  early  1987,  President  Saddam  Husayn  abruptly  reversed  the 
course  of  Iraq's  economic  policy,  deviating  sharply  from  the 


127 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


socialist  economic  ideology  that  the  government  had  propounded 
since  the  1968  Baath  revolution.  Saddam  Hussayn  advocated  a 
more  open,  if  not  free,  market,  and  he  launched  a  program  of  exten- 
sive reform.  Because  the  liberalization  was  aimed  primarily  at  deal- 
ing with  the  nation's  mounting  and  increasingly  unmanageable  war 
debt,  Saddam  Husayn's  motivation  was  more  strategic  than  eco- 
nomic. He  had  four  related  goals — to  conserve  money  by  cutting 
the  costs  of  direct  and  of  indirect  government  subsidies,  to  tap  pri- 
vate sector  savings  and  to  stem  capital  outflow  by  offering  credi- 
ble investment  opportunities  to  Iraqi  citizens,  to  reduce  the  balance 
of  payments  deficit  by  fostering  import  substitution  and  by  promot- 
ing exports,  and  to  use  the  reforms  to  convince  Western  commer- 
cial creditors  to  continue  making  loans  to  Iraq. 

The  reform  process  began  with  Revolutionary  Command  Coun- 
cil (RCC)  Decree  Number  652,  which  in  May  1987  abolished  Iraq's 
labor  law.  This  law  had  institutionalized  the  differences  among 
white-collar,  blue-collar,  and  peasant  workers.  Under  the  law,  every 
adult  had  been  guaranteed  lifetime  employment,  but  workers  had 
almost  no  freedom  to  choose  or  to  change  their  jobs  or  places  of 
employment,  and  they  had  little  upward  mobility.  One  result  was 
that  labor  costs  in  Iraq  accounted  for  20  percent  to  40  percent  of 
output,  compared  to  about  10  percent  in  similar  industries  in  non- 
socialist  economies.  Nonproductive  administrative  staff  accounted 
for  up  to  half  the  personnel  in  state-run  enterprises,  a  much  higher 
proportion  than  in  private  sector  companies  in  other  countries.  The 
government  immediately  laid  off  thousands  of  white-collar  work- 
ers, most  of  whom  were  foreign  nationals.  Thousands  of  other  white- 
collar  civil  servants  were  given  factory  jobs.  Previously,  all  state 
blue-collar  workers  had  belonged  to  government-sponsored  trade 
unions,  while  unions  for  private  sector  employees  were  prohibited. 
After  the  labor  law  was  abolished,  the  situation  was  reversed. 
Government  workers  could  no  longer  be  union  members,  whereas 
private  sector  employees  were  authorized  to  establish  and  to  join 
their  own  unions.  To  compensate  state  blue-collar  workers  for  their 
lost  job  security,  Saddam  Husayn  established  an  incentive  plan  that 
permitted  state-enterprise  managers  to  award  up  to  30  percent  of 
the  value  of  any  increase  in  productivity  to  workers. 

Decree  Number  652  aroused  resentment  and  controversy  among 
government  bureaucrats,  many  of  whom  were  stalwart  Baath  Party 
members,  not  only  because  it  contradicted  party  ideology,  but  also 
because  it  imperiled  their  jobs.  Feeling  compelled  to  justify  his  new 
economic  thinking  and  to  reconcile  it  to  Baathist  ideology,  Saddam 
Husayn  wrote  a  long  article  in  Ath  Thawrah,  the  major  government- 
run  newspaper,  criticizing  the  labor  law  for  perpetuating  a  caste 


128 


Fertilizer  plant  in  Basra 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Iraq, 
Washington 


Cement  factory  in  Basra 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Iraq, 
Washington 


and  class  system  that  prevented  people  from  being  rewarded  accord- 
ing to  merit  and  from  using  their  capacities  fully.  Perhaps  writing 
with  intentional  irony,  Saddam  Husayn  stated  that  unless  people 
were  rewarded  for  producing  more,  some  might  start  to  regard  the 
capitalist  system  as  superior  because  it  permitted  the  growth  of 
wealth  and  the  improvement  of  workers'  lives. 

In  June  1987,  Saddam  Husayn  went  further  in  attacking  the 
bureaucratic  red  tape  that  entangled  the  nation's  economy.  In  a 
speech  to  provincial  governors,  he  said,  "From  now  on  the  state 
should  not  embark  on  uneconomic  activity.  Any  activity,  in  any 
field,  which  is  supposed  to  have  an  economic  return  and  does  not 
make  such  a  return,  must  be  ignored.  All  officials  must  pay  as  much 
attention  to  economic  affairs  as  political  ideology." 

To  implement  this  policy,  Saddam  Husayn  announced  a  move 
toward  privatization  of  government-owned  enterprises.  Several 
mechanisms  were  devised  to  turn  state  enterprises  over  to  the  pri- 
vate sector.  Some  state  companies  were  leased  on  long  terms,  others 
were  sold  outright  to  investors,  and  others  went  public  with  stock 
offerings.  Among  the  state  enterprises  sold  to  the  public  were  bus 


129 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

companies  serving  the  provinces,  about  95  percent  of  the  nation's 
network  of  gas  stations,  thousands  of  agricultural  and  animal  hus- 
bandry enterprises,  state  department  stores,  and  factories.  In  many 
instances,  to  improve  productivity  the  government  turned  stock 
over  to  company  employees. 

The  most  significant  instance  of  privatization  occurred  in  August 
1987,  when  Saddam  Husayn  announced  a  decree  to  abolish  the 
State  Enterprise  for  Iraqi  Airways  by  early  1988.  Two  new  ven- 
tures were  to  be  established  instead:  the  Iraqi  Aviation  Company, 
to  operate  commercially  as  the  national  airline,  and  the  National 
Company  for  Aviation  Services,  to  provide  aircraft  and  airport  ser- 
vices. Stock  was  to  be  sold  to  the  public,  and  the  government  was 
to  retain  a  minority  share  of  the  new  companies  through  the  General 
Federation  of  Iraqi  Chambers  of  Commerce  and  Industry. 

In  a  further  move  consistent  with  the  trend  toward  privatiza- 
tion, the  RCC  announced  in  November  1987  that  the  government 
would  offer  new  inducements  for  foreign  companies  to  operate  in 
Iraq  by  loosening  direct  investment  restrictions.  Details  of  the  new 
proposal  were  not  specified,  but  it  was  expected  to  entail  modifi- 
cation of  Resolution  Number  1 646  of  the  RCC ,  enacted  in  Novem- 
ber 1980,  which  forbade  foreign  capital  participation  in  private 
sector  companies.  Changes  in  the  long-standing  government  policy 
of  preventing  foreign  ownership  of  state  institutions  might  also 
occur.  According  to  the  new  regulations,  all  foreign  firms  engaged 
in  development  projects  would  also  be  exempt  from  paying  taxes 
and  duties,  and  foreign  nationals  who  were  employees  of  these  com- 
panies would  pay  no  income  tax.  At  the  same  time,  Saddam  Husayn 
announced  that  development  projects  would  no  longer  be  paid  for 
on  credit.  The  new  legislation  indicated  that  Iraq  was  encounter- 
ing difficulty  paying  for  or  obtaining  credits  for  turnkey  projects 
and  was  therefore  willing  to  permit  foreign  companies  to  retain 
partial  ownership  of  the  installations  that  they  built.  Previously, 
Iraq  had  rejected  exchanging  debt  for  equity  in  this  manner  as  an 
infringement  on  its  sovereignty. 

Banking  and  Finance 

When  Iraq  was  part  of  the  Ottoman  Empire,  a  number  of 
European  currencies  circulated  alongside  the  Turkish  pound.  With 
the  establishment  of  the  British  mandate  after  World  War  I,  Iraq 
was  incorporated  into  the  Indian  monetary  system,  which  was 
operated  by  the  British,  and  the  rupee  became  the  principal  cur- 
rency in  circulation.  In  1931 ,  the  Iraq  Currency  Board  was  estab- 
lished in  London  for  note  issue  and  maintenance  of  reserves  for 
the  new  Iraqi  dinar  (ID — for  value  of  the  dinar — see  Glossary). 


130 


The  Economy 


The  currency  board  pursued  a  conservative  monetary  policy,  main- 
taining very  high  reserves  behind  the  dinar.  The  dinar  was  fur- 
ther strengthened  by  its  link  to  the  British  pound.  In  1947  the 
government-owned  National  Bank  of  Iraq  was  founded,  and  in  1949 
the  London-based  currency  board  was  abolished  as  the  new  bank 
assumed  responsibility  for  the  issuing  of  notes  and  the  maintenance 
of  reserves.  The  National  Bank  of  Iraq  continued  the  currency 
board's  conservative  monetary  policy,  maintaining  100  percent 
reserves  behind  outstanding  domestic  currency. 

Initiated  during  the  last  years  of  Ottoman  rule,  commercial  bank- 
ing became  a  significant  factor  in  foreign  trade  during  the  British 
mandate.  British  banks  predominated,  but  traditional  money  deal- 
ers continued  to  extend  some  domestic  credit  and  to  offer  limited 
banking  services.  The  expansion  of  banking  services  was  hampered 
by  the  limited  use  of  money,  the  small  size  of  the  economy,  and 
the  small  amount  of  savings;  banks  provided  services  for  foreign 
trade  almost  exclusively.  In  the  mid- 1930s,  the  Iraqi  government 
decided  to  establish  banks  in  order  to  make  credit  available  to  other 
sectors  of  the  economy.  In  1936,  the  government  formed  the 
Agricultural  and  Industrial  Bank.  In  1940,  this  bank  was  divided 
into  the  Agricultural  Bank  and  the  Industrial  Bank,  each  with  sub- 
stantially increased  capital  provided  by  the  government.  The 
government  established  the  Rafidayn  Bank  in  1941  as  both  the 
primary  commercial  bank  and  the  central  bank,  but  the  National 
Bank  of  Iraq  became  the  government's  banker  in  1947.  The  Real 
Estate  Bank  was  established  in  1948,  primarily  to  finance  the  pur- 
chase of  houses  by  individuals.  The  Mortgage  Bank  was  established 
in  1951,  and  the  Cooperative  Bank  in  1956.  In  addition  to  these 
government-owned  institutions,  branches  of  foreign  banks  and  pri- 
vate Iraqi  banks  were  opened  as  the  economy  expanded. 

In  1956  the  National  Bank  of  Iraq  became  the  Central  Bank  of 
Iraq.  Its  responsibilities  included  the  issuing  and  the  management 
of  currency,  control  over  foreign  exchange  transactions,  and  the 
regulation  and  supervision  of  the  banking  system.  It  kept  accounts 
for  the  government,  and  it  handled  government  loans.  Over  the 
years,  legislation  has  considerably  enlarged  the  Central  Bank's 
authority. 

On  July  14,  1964,  all  banks  and  insurance  companies  were 
nationalized,  and,  during  the  next  decade,  banking  was  consoli- 
dated. By  1987  the  banking  system  consisted  of  the  Central  Bank, 
the  Rafidayn  Bank,  and  the  Agricultural,  Industrial,  and  Real 
Estate  banks. 

In  the  1980s,  the  Rafidayn  Bank  was  in  the  contradictory  posi- 
tion of  trying  to  maintain  its  reputation  as  a  viable  commercial  bank 


131 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

while  acting  on  behalf  of  the  government  as  an  intermediary  in 
securing  loans  from  private  foreign  banks.  With  deposits  of  more 
than  US$17  billion  in  1983,  the  Rafidayn  was  reportedly  the  largest 
commercial  bank  in  the  Arab  world.  It  managed  to  maintain  a  rela- 
tively sound  commercial  reputation  for  the  five  years  of  the  war, 
and  in  1985  its  total  assets  stood  at  about  ID  10. 4  billion  and  its 
total  deposits,  at  more  than  ID9.5  billion — both  figures  having 
tripled  since  the  Iran-Iraq  War  began  in  1980.  This  huge  increase 
in  deposits  was  attributed  to  increased  saving  by  the  public  because 
of  the  scarcity  of  consumer  products.  Profits  of  ID290  million  in 
1985  represented  an  increase  of  nearly  50  percent  over  1980  levels. 
By  1985  the  Rafidayn  had  established  215  branches  in  Iraq,  104 
of  which  were  in  Baghdad;  according  to  the  Iraqi  government,  it 
also  had  seven  branches  abroad.  In  1986,  however,  the  bank  started 
to  delay  payment  of  letters  of  credit  owed  to  foreign  exporters,  and 
its  failure  to  make  installment  payments  on  a  syndicated  loan  of 
500  million  Eurodollars  forced  rescheduling  of  the  debt  payments. 
In  1987,  with  the  exception  of  the  Baghdad  office  of  a  Yugoslav 
bank,  the  Rafidayn  was  Iraq's  only  commercial  bank.  In  this  same 
year,  the  government  ordered  the  Rafidayn  Bank  to  double  its  capi- 
tal to  ID  100  million.  This  increase  was  to  enable  the  bank  to 
improve  and  to  extend  its  commercial  services,  so  that  it  could  tap 
the  public  for  the  increased  deposits  that  would  enable  the  bank 
to  offer  more  loans.  To  the  extent  that  new  loans  could  bolster  the 
emerging  private  sector,  the  move  appeared  consistent  with  other 
government  efforts  to  make  state-run  operations  more  fiscally 
efficient. 

The  other  three  banks  in  Iraq  were  so-called  special  banks  that 
provided  short-  to  long-term  credit  in  their  respective  markets.  Since 
its  establishment  in  1936,  the  Agricultural  Bank  had  grown  to  forty- 
five  branches,  of  which  four  were  in  Baghdad.  In  1981,  its  capital 
stood  at  ID  150  million  and  its  loans  totaled  ID  175  million.  The 
Agricultural  Bank  had  also  started  a  project  whose  objective  was 
to  encourage  rural  citizens  to  establish  savings  accounts.  Mean- 
while, the  Industrial  Bank  had  grown  to  nine  branches  and  offered 
loans  both  to  private  and  to  public  sector  industrial  and  manufac- 
turing companies.  The  Real  Estate  Bank  was  composed  of  twenty- 
five  branches  and  provided  loans  for  construction  of  housing  and 
tourist  facilities.  The  Iraq  Life  Insurance  Company,  the  Iraq 
Reinsurance  Company,  and  the  National  Life  Insurance  Company 
conducted  the  nation's  insurance  business.  Post  offices  maintained 
savings  accounts  for  small  depositors. 


132 


The  Economy 


The  Oil  Sector 

Developments  Through  World  War  II 

Natural  seepage  aroused  an  early  interest  in  Iraq's  oil  poten- 
tial. After  the  discovery  of  oil  at  Baku  (in  what  is  now  the  Soviet 
Union,  on  the  west  side  of  the  Caspian  Sea)  in  the  1870s,  foreign 
groups  began  seeking  concessions  for  exploration  in  Iran  and  in 
the  area  of  the  Ottoman  Empire  that  became  Iraq  after  World 
War  I.  The  Anglo-Persian  Oil  Company  (later  renamed  the  Anglo- 
Iranian  Oil  Company  and  still  later  British  Petroleum)  was  granted 
a  concession  in  Iran  and  discovered  oil  in  1908.  Shortly  before 
World  War  I,  the  British  government  purchased  majority  owner- 
ship of  the  Anglo-Persian  Oil  Company. 

The  discovery  of  oil  in  Iran  stimulated  greater  interest  in  potential 
Iraqi  oil  resources,  and  financial  groups  from  several  major  nations 
engaged  in  protracted  negotiations  and  in  considerable  intrigue  with 
the  Ottoman  Empire  in  order  to  obtain  concessions  to  explore  for 
oil  in  Mosul  and  in  Kirkuk,  two  locations  in  what  later  was  north- 
central  Iraq.  Although  a  few  concessions  were  granted  prior  to 
World  War  I,  little  surveying  or  exploration  was  done. 

The  Turkish  Petroleum  Company 

In  1912,  several  rival  groups  banded  together  to  establish  the 
Turkish  Petroleum  Company  (TPC),  which  would  seek  a  conces- 
sion to  explore  for  Iraqi  oil.  The  original  purpose  of  the  TPC  was 
to  eliminate  rivalry  among  the  partners  and  to  outflank  American 
concession  seekers.  The  TPC's  guiding  hand  was  Calouste  Gul- 
benkian,  who  had  been  hired  by  British  banking  interests  because 
of  his  knowledge  and  his  ability  to  influence  the  decisions  of  the 
Turkish  government.  His  5  percent  holdings  in  TPC  reputedly 
made  him  the  richest  individual  in  the  world  for  many  years,  and 
were  the  source  of  his  nickname,  "Mr.  Five  Percent." 

Establishment  of  the  TPC  did  not  eliminate  the  rivalry  among 
the  shareholders  representing  various  national  interests.  Britain  had 
a  long-standing  strategic  interest  in  Mesopotamia  because  of  its  loca- 
tion in  relation  to  Britain's  military  and  commercial  routes  to  India. 
The  British  government's  decision  before  World  War  I  to  convert 
its  naval  fleet  from  coal  to  oil  increased  the  importance  of  the  area. 
By  1914,  the  British- government-controlled  Anglo-Persian  Oil  Com- 
pany had  bought  50  percent  of  the  shares  of  TPC  and  was  exerting 
pressure  on  the  Turkish  government  to  grant  the  Anglo-Persian  Oil 
Company  a  concession,  but  World  War  I  delayed  negotiations. 

World  War  I  demonstrated  to  the  major  powers  the  importance 
of  securing  their  own  sources  of  oil.  The  British-French  San  Remo 


133 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Conference  of  1920  provided  for  permanent  British  control  of  any 
company  established  to  develop  Mesopotamian  oil,  but  allocated 
Iraqi  interests  20  percent  if  they  chose  to  invest.  France  claimed 
the  German  shares  of  TPC  that  had  been  seized  as  enemy  property 
and  formed  the  CFP  to  hold  the  French  shares  in  TPC.  The  Italian 
and  United  States  governments  protested  their  exclusion.  After 
prolonged  and  sharp  diplomatic  exchanges,  American  oil  compa- 
nies were  permitted  to  buy  into  TPC,  although  negotiations  were 
not  completed  until  1928. 

Although  Iraq  became  a  British  mandate  in  1920,  that  did  not 
guarantee  TPC  an  exclusive  concession.  Using  the  promise  of  a 
concession  from  the  prewar  Turkish  government,  TPC  began  nego- 
tiating for  one  in  1921.  A  major  point  of  contention  was  Iraq's 
20  percent  share  of  any  oil  development  company,  a  condition  stipu- 
lated at  the  San  Remo  Conference.  By  the  early  1920s,  TPC  con- 
sisted almost  entirely  of  oil  companies  that  did  not  want  Iraq's 
representation  or  its  interference  in  the  management  of  TPC.  They 
successfully  resisted  Iraqi  efforts  to  participate  despite  pressure  by 
the  British  government  to  accept  Iraqi  shareholders. 

A  concession  was  granted  to  TPC  in  March  1925.  Many  Iraqis 
felt  cheated  from  the  beginning  of  the  concession.  Its  term  was  for 
seventy-five  years,  and  it  covered  twenty-four  plots  selected  by  TPC. 
The  Iraqi  government  was  to  receive  royalties  at  a  flat  fee  per  ton 
to  be  paid  in  English  pounds  sterling,  but  with  a  gold  clause  to 
guard  against  devaluation  of  the  pound.  Royalty  payments  were 
linked  to  oil  company  profits,  but  this  clause  became  effective  only 
after  twenty  years.  The  Iraqi  government  had  the  right  to  tax  TPC 
at  the  same  rate  levied  on  other  industrial  concerns.  TPC  was  to 
build  a  refinery  to  meet  Iraq's  domestic  needs  and  a  pipeline  for 
the  export  of  crude  oil.  The  Iraqi  government  had  the  right  to  lease 
other  plots  for  oil  exploration  and  development,  and  TPC  was  not 
excluded  from  bidding  on  these  additional  plots. 

TPC  began  exploratory  drilling  after  the  concession  was  rati- 
fied by  the  Iraqi  government.  Oil  was  discovered  just  north  of  Kir- 
kuk  on  October  15,  1927.  Many  tons  of  oil  were  spilled  before  the 
gushing  well  was  brought  under  control.  This  indication  of  a  large, 
valuable  field  soon  proved  well-founded. 

The  discovery  of  oil  hastened  negotiations  over  the  composition 
and  the  functions  of  TPC .  The  shareholders  signed  a  formal  agree- 
ment in  July  1928.  The  Anglo-Persian  Oil  Company,  the  Dutch 
Shell  Group,  the  CFP,  and  the  Near  East  Development  Corpora- 
tion (which  represented  the  interests  of  five  large  American  oil  com- 
panies) each  held  23.7  percent  of  the  shares,  and  Gulbenkian  the 
remaining,  but  nonvoting,  5  percent.  TPC  was  organized  as  a 


134 


The  Economy 


nonprofit  company  registered  in  Britain  that  produced  crude  oil 
for  a  fee  for  its  parent  companies,  based  on  their  shares.  TPC  was 
limited  to  refining  and  marketing  for  Iraq's  internal  needs  to  prevent 
any  competition  with  the  parent  companies.  The  Anglo-Persian 
Oil  Company  was  awarded  a  10  percent  royalty  on  the  oil  produced, 
as  compensation  for  its  reduced  share  in  TPC. 

A  major  obstacle  facing  United  States  firms  had  been  a  clause 
in  the  1914  reorganization  of  the  TPC  that  stipulated  that  any  oil 
activity  in  the  Ottoman  Empire  by  any  shareholder  would  be  shared 
by  all  partners.  Gulbenkian  had  insisted  on  the  clause  so  that  the 
oil  companies  could  not  circumvent  his  interests  by  establishing 
other  companies  without  him.  This  arrangement,  continued  in  the 
1928  reorganization,  came  to  be  known  as  the  Red  Line  Agree- 
ment because  the  TPC  partners  were  forbidden  to  act  indepen- 
dently within  the  boundaries  of  the  now-defunct  Ottoman  Empire. 
This  "red  line"  effectively  precluded  the  United  States  and  other 
TPC  partners  from  concession  hunting  and  from  oil  development 
in  much  of  the  Persian  Gulf  region  until  after  World  War  II. 

In  1929  the  TPC  was  renamed  the  Iraq  Petroleum  Company 
(IPC).  IPC  represented  oil  companies  that  had  diverse  and  some- 
times conflicting  interests.  The  Anglo-Persian  Oil  Company  and 
Standard  Oil  of  New  Jersey  (also  known  as  Esso  and  subsequently 
known  as  Exxon),  for  example,  had  access  to  major  sources  of  crude 
oil  outside  Iraq,  and  they  therefore  wished  to  hold  the  Iraqi  con- 
cessions in  reserve.  CFP  and  other  companies,  in  contrast,  pushed 
for  rapid  development  of  Iraqi  oil  to  augment  their  short  crude  oil 
supplies. 

IPC's  parent  companies  delayed  development  of  the  Iraqi  fields, 
and  IPC's  concession  expired  because  the  companies  failed  to  meet 
certain  performance  requirements,  such  as  the  construction  of  pipe- 
lines and  of  shipping  terminals.  IPC's  concession  was  renegotiated 
in  1931 .  The  new  contract  gave  IPC  a  seventy-year  concession  on 
an  enlarged  83,200-square-kilometer  area,  all  east  of  the  Tigris 
River.  In  return,  however,  the  Iraqi  government  demanded  and 
received  additional  payments  and  loans  as  well  as  the  promise  that 
IPC  would  complete  two  oil  pipelines  to  the  Mediterranean  by  1935. 

Iraqi  politicians  remained  suspicious  of  IPC's  motives.  Many 
Iraqis  believed  that  IPC  was  deliberately  withholding  Iraqi  crude 
from  the  market  to  boost  the  price  of  the  parent  companies'  oil 
produced  elsewhere.  In  1932  Iraq  granted  a  seventy-five-year  con- 
cession to  the  British  Oil  Development  Company  (BODC),  created 
by  a  group  of  Italian  and  British  interests,  to  120,000  square  kilo- 
meters west  of  the  Tigris  River.  The  terms  were  more  favorable 
to  the  Iraqi  government  than  those  of  earlier  agreements.  BODC 


135 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

financing  was  insufficient,  however,  and  the  company  was  bought 
out  by  IPC  in  1941  and  was  renamed  the  Mosul  Petroleum  Com- 
pany (MPC).  IPC  shareholders  asserted  their  monopoly  position 
again  when  they  won  the  concession  rights  to  southern  Iraq  and 
in  1938  founded  the  Basrah  Petroleum  Company  (BPC)  as  their 
wholly  owned  subsidiary  to  develop  the  region. 

Transport  remained  the  main  obstacle  to  the  efficient  export  of 
Iraqi  oil.  When  France  joined  IPC  after  World  War  I,  it  wanted 
the  Iraqi  pipeline  to  transit  its  mandate  in  Syria  to  a  coastal  terminal 
at  Tripoli,  Lebanon.  The  Iraqis  and  the  British  preferred  a  terminal 
at  Haifa,  in  Palestine.  In  1934,  a  pipeline  was  completed  from  the 
Kirkuk  fields  to  Al  Hadithah,  where  it  divided,  one  branch  going 
to  Tripoli  (the  Tripoli  branch  was  closed  by  Syria — which  supported 
Iran — in  1982  after  the  outbreak  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War  in  1980) 
and  the  other  to  Haifa  (the  Haifa  line  was  closed  in  1948).  In  1938, 
nine  years  after  the  discovery  of  oil,  Iraq  began  to  export  oil  in 
significant  quantities.  Iraqi  production  averaged  4  million  tons  per 
year  until  World  War  II,  when  restricted  shipping  in  the  Mediter- 
ranean forced  production  down  sharply  (see  fig.  8). 

Post-World  War  II  Through  the  1970s 

With  the  end  of  World  War  II,  IPC  and  its  affiliates  undertook 
repair  and  development  of  facilities  in  Iraq  as  rapidly  as  financing 
and  materials  became  available.  Exploration  and  drilling  were 
pressed,  particularly  in  the  Basra  and  the  Mosul  areas,  to  meet  con- 
cession terms.  Although  considered  a  priority,  the  elimination  of 
transport  constraints  was  set  back  when  a  larger  second,  nearly 
completed  pipeline  to  Haifa  was  abandoned  in  1948  as  a  result  of 
the  first  Arab-Israeli  war.  Use  of  the  existing  Haifa  line  was  also 
discontinued.  In  1951,  however,  commercial  exports  by  the  BPC 
of  good  quality  crude  began  via  a  new  pipeline  to  Al  Faw,  on  the 
Persian  Gulf.  Exports  were  boosted  further  with  the  completion  in 
1952  of  a  thirty-inch  pipeline  linking  the  Kirkuk  fields  to  the  Syrian 
port  of  Baniyas,  which  had  a  throughput  capacity  of  13  million  tons 
per  year.  In  that  year,  production  from  Basra  and  Mosul  approached 
2.5  million  tons  while  the  Kirkuk  fields  increased  production  to  more 
than  15  million  tons.  In  the  space  of  a  year  (1951-52),  total  Iraqi 
oil  production  had  doubled  to  almost  20  million  tons. 

Iraqi  officials  still  harbored  ambitions,  dating  back  to  the  1920 
San  Remo  Conference,  to  take  control  of  their  nation's  oil  resources. 
The  elimination  of  transportation  bottlenecks  and  the  subsequent 
rapid  growth  of  exports  encouraged  Iraqi  assertiveness.  IPC's  costiy, 
irretrievable  investments  in  Iraq's  oil  infrastructure  gave  the  govern- 
ment even  greater  leverage. 


136 


The  Economy 


One  particularly  sore  point  among  the  Iraqis  concerned  IPC's 
contractual  obligation  to  meet  Iraq's  domestic  requirements  for 
gasoline  and  other  petroleum  products.  An  IPC  subsidiary  oper- 
ated a  small  refinery  and  distribution  company  based  near  Kirkuk 
that  supplied  two-thirds  of  Iraq's  needs.  But  IPC  imported  the 
remaining  third  from  a  large  refinery  in  Abadan,  Iran.  Iraq  con- 
sidered this  arrangement  politically  imprudent,  a  judgment  that 
was  vindicated  when,  in  the  early  1950s,  Iranian  production  was 
cut  during  that  country's  oil  industry  nationalization  crisis.  In  1951 
the  Iraqi  government  took  over,  with  compensation,  the  small 
Kirkuk  refinery  and  hired  a  United  States  contractor  to  build  a 
refinery  near  Baghdad.  This  represented  Iraq's  first  concrete  step 
toward  taking  control  of  the  oil  industry. 

In  1952  Iraq  followed  the  examples  of  Venezuela  and  of  Saudi 
Arabia  by  demanding  and  receiving  a  50  percent  tax  on  all  oil  com- 
pany profits  made  in  the  country.  The  tax  more  than  doubled  Iraqi 
profits  per  ton  on  exported  oil. 

The  1958  Iraqi  revolution  had  little  effect  at  first  on  the  govern- 
ment's attitude  toward  IPC.  The  government  needed  the  oil  reve- 
nues generated  by  IPC;  moreover,  Iran's  experience  when  it 
nationalized  its  oil  industry  was  a  vivid  reminder  to  the  Iraqis  of 
the  power  the  oil  companies  still  wielded.  In  1959  and  in  1960, 
surpluses  led  the  international  oil  companies  to  reduce  the  posted 
price  for  Middle  Eastern  oil  unilaterally,  which  reduced  govern- 
ment revenues  significantly.  IPC's  policy  of  exploiting  and  develop- 
ing only  .5  percent  of  the  total  concessions  it  held  in  Iraq  and  of 
holding  the  remainder  in  reserve  also  reduced  Iraqi  revenues. 
Perhaps  in  response  to  the  general  situation,  Iraq  convened  a  meet- 
ing in  Baghdad  of  the  major  oil-producing  nations,  which  resulted 
in  the  September  1960  formation  of  the  Organization  of  Petroleum 
Exporting  Countries  (OPEC).  In  December  1961,  the  Iraqi  govern- 
ment enacted  Law  No.  80,  which  resulted  in  the  expropriation  of 
all  of  the  IPC  group's  concession  area  that  was  not  in  production. 
The  expropriation  locked  the  government  and  the  oil  companies 
in  a  controversy  that  was  not  resolved  for  more  than  a  decade.  The 
companies  had  two  paramount  objectives  in  seeking  to  mitigate 
the  law's  effect.  One  was  to  regain  control  of  the  concession  to  the 
North  Rumaylah  field  in  southern  Iraq,  which  was  expected  to  be 
a  major  source  of  oil.  In  particular,  the  companies  did  not  want 
competitors  to  gain  access  to  it.  The  companies'  second  major  objec- 
tive was  to  limit  the  impact  of  Iraq's  actions  on  IPC  concession 
agreements  in  other  oil-exporting  nations. 

In  February  1964,  the  government  established  the  state-owned 
Iraq  National  Oil  Company  (INOC)  to  develop  the  concession  areas 


137 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  8.  Petroleum  Industry,  1988 

taken  over  from  IPC.  INOC  was  eventually  granted  exclusive  rights 
by  law  to  develop  Iraq's  oil  reserves;  granting  concessions  to  other 
oil  companies  was  forbidden,  although  INOC  could  permit  IPC 


138 


The  Economy 


and  other  foreign  companies  to  participate  in  the  further  develop- 
ment of  existing  concessions.  Nevertheless,  IPC  continued  to  lift 
the  bulk  of  Iraqi  oil  from  the  Kirkuk  field  that  it  had  retained,  and, 


139 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

more  important,  to  export  and  to  market  it.  IPC  therefore  remained 
the  arbiter  of  existing,  if  not  potential,  Iraqi  oil  production. 

Iraq's  disillusionment  with  newly  formed  OPEC  began  just  after 
the  enactment  of  Law  80.  Iraq  applied  pressure  on  OPEC  to  adopt 
a  unified  negotiating  stance  vis-a-vis  the  oil  companies.  Instead. 
OPEC  members  negotiated  separately.  This  allowed  the  oil  com- 
panies to  extract  concessions  that  permitted  them  to  switch  produc- 
tion away  from  Iraq  and  therefore  to  pressure  Iraq  with  the  prospect 
of  lower  oil  revenues.  Iraq's  relationship  with  IPC  was  further 
aggravated  in  1966  when  Syria  raised  transit  fees  on  the  pipeline 
that  carried  two-thirds  of  Iraqi  oil  to  port  and  demanded  retro- 
active payments  from  IPC.  When  IPC  refused  to  pay,  Syria  closed 
the  pipeline  for  several  months,  an  action  that  cost  the  Iraqi  govern- 
ment much  revenue. 

The  eight-year  shutdown  of  the  Suez  Canal  that  followed  the 
June  1967  Arab-Israeli  War  increased  the  importance  of  Mediter- 
ranean oil  producers  because  of  their  proximity  to  European  mar- 
kets. In  1970  Libya  took  advantage  of  this  situation  to  win  higher 
prices  for  its  oil.  Iraq,  which  was  in  the  unusual  position  of  exporting 
oil  through  both  the  Gulf  and  the  Mediterranean,  demanded  that 
it  be  paid  for  its  oil  at  the  Libyan  price.  IPC  countered  that  Iraqi 
oil,  because  of  its  higher  sulfur  content,  was  inferior  to  Libyan  oil. 
Meanwhile,  exports  of  Iraqi  oil  via  the  Mediterranean  began  to 
decline,  which  IPC  attributed  to  falling  tanker  rates  that  made  Gulf 
oil  more  competitive.  Iraq,  however,  interpreted  the  declining 
exports  as  pressure  from  the  oil  companies.  In  general,  Iraq  believed 
that  IPC  was  intentionally  undercharging  customers  for  oil  it  sold 
on  behalf  of  Iraq  and  was  cutting  back  Iraqi  production  to  force 
Iraq  to  restore  the  nationalized  concession  areas.  In  response,  Iraq 
attempted  to  make  INOC  a  viable  substitute  for  IPC .  The  INOC 
chairman  of  the  board  was  given  cabinet  rank  and  greater  authority, 
but  INOC's  activities  were  hampered  by  lack  of  experience  and 
expertise.  Iraq,  therefore,  sought  assistance  from  countries  consid- 
ered immune  to  potential  IPC  sanctions  and  to  retaliation.  In  1967 
INOC  concluded  a  service  agreement  with  Entreprise  des 
Recherches  et  des  Activites  Petrolieres  (ERAP) — a  company  owned 
by  the  French  government — covering  exploration  and  development 
of  a  large  segment  of  southern  Iraq,  including  offshore  areas.  Some 
foreign  observers  doubted  that  the  terms  of  the  arrangement  were 
more  favorable  than  IPC's  terms,  but  more  important  from  Iraq's 
point  of  view,  the  ERAP  agreement  left  control  in  Iraqi  hands. 
By  1976  EPAP  started  pumping  the  oil  it  had  discovered,  at  which 
point  INOC  took  over  operation  of  the  fields  and  began  deliver- 
ing the  oil  to  ERAP. 


140 


The  Economy 


In  1967  INOC  tapped  the  Soviet  Union  for  assistance  in  develop- 
ing the  North  Rumaylah  field.  The  Soviet  Union  provided  more 
than  US$500  million  worth  of  tied  aid  for  drilling  rigs,  pumps,  pipe- 
lines, a  deep-water  port  on  the  Persian  Gulf,  tankers,  and  a  large 
contingent  of  technicians.  In  1972,  the  North  Rumaylah  field  started 
production  and  produced  nearly  4  million  tons  of  crude. 

In  the  same  period,  Iraq  obtained  aid  from  French,  Italian, 
Japanese,  Indian,  and  Brazilian  oil  companies  under  service  con- 
tracts modeled  on  the  1967  ERAP  agreement.  The  service  con- 
tracts, which  Iraq  did  not  regard  as  concessions,  allowed  the  foreign 
oil  companies  to  explore  and  to  develop  areas  in  exchange  for  bear- 
ing the  full  costs  and  the  risks  of  development.  If  oil  were  discovered, 
the  companies  would  turn  their  operations  over  to  INOC,  which 
would  sell  them  the  oil  at  a  discounted  rate. 

Iraq's  increasing  ability  to  manage  its  petroleum  resources  finally 
induced  IPC  to  negotiate.  In  1972  IPC  promised  to  increase  its 
production  in  Iraq  and  to  raise  the  price  it  paid  for  Iraqi  oil  to  the 
Libyan  level.  In  return,  IPC  sought  compensation  for  its  lost  con- 
cession areas.  Iraq  rejected  this  offer  and,  on  June  1,  1972,  nation- 
alized IPC's  remaining  holdings  in  Iraq,  the  original  Kirkuk  fields. 
A  state-owned  company,  the  Iraqi  Company  for  Oil  Operations 
(ICOO),  was  established  to  take  over  IPC  facilities.  BPC  was 
allowed  to  continue  its  operations. 

In  February  1973,  Iraq  and  IPC  settled  their  claims  and  coun- 
terclaims. IPC  acknowledged  Iraq's  right  to  nationalize  and  agreed 
to  pay  the  equivalent  of  nearly  US$350  million  to  Iraq  as  compen- 
sation for  revenue  lost  to  Iraq  over  the  years  when  IPC  was  selling 
Iraqi  oil.  In  return,  the  government  agreed  to  provide  to  IPC,  free 
of  charge,  15  million  tons  of  Kirkuk  crude,  valued  at  the  time  at 
over  US$300  million,  in  final  settlement  of  IPC  claims.  Some 
observers  believed  that  IPC  had  received  a  liberal  settlement. 

The  October  1973  Arab-Israeli  War  impelled  the  Iraqis  to  take 
complete  control  of  their  oil  resources,  and  Iraq  became  one  of  the 
strongest  proponents  of  an  Arab  oil  boycott  of  Israel's  supporters. 
Although  Iraq  was  subsequently  criticized  by  other  Arab  countries 
for  not  adhering  to  the  agreed-upon  production  cutbacks,  Iraq 
nationalized  United  States  and  Dutch  interests  in  BPC.  By  1975 
all  remaining  foreign  interests  were  nationalized.  Fifty-three  years 
after  the  humiliating  San  Remo  agreement,  Iraq  had  finally  gained 
complete  sovereignty  over  its  most  valuable  natural  resource. 

Throughout  the  mid-  to  late- 1970s,  increases  in  the  price  of  oil 
caused  Iraqi  oil  revenues  to  skyrocket  even  as  production  fluctu- 
ated. Iraq  funneled  much  of  this  revenue  into  expanding  the  oil 
industry  infrastructure.  Refinery  capacity  was  doubled,  and  in  1977 


141 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

a  key  pipeline  was  completed  from  the  Kirkuk  fields  across  Tur- 
key to  a  Mediterranean  terminal  at  Dortyol. 

In  1976,  the  structure  of  the  Iraqi  oil  industry  was  revamped. 
A  new  Ministry  of  Oil  was  established  to  direct  planning  and  con- 
struction in  the  petroleum  sector  and  to  be  responsible  for  oil  refin- 
ing, gas  processing,  and  internal  marketing  of  gas  products  through 
several  subsidiary  organizations.  INOC  would  be  responsible  for 
the  production,  transport,  and  sale  of  crude  oil  and  gas.  Some  of 
its  operations  were  contracted  out  to  foreign  service  companies. 
The  State  Organization  for  Northern  Oil  (SONO),  subordinate 
to  INOC,  replaced  ICOO  as  the  operating  company  in  the  north- 
ern fields.  In  subsequent  reorganizations,  SONO  was  renamed  the 
Northern  Petroleum  Organization  (NPO),  and  a  Central  Petroleum 
Organization  (CPO),  as  well  as  a  Southern  Petroleum  Organiza- 
tion (SPO)  were  also  established.  The  State  Organization  of  Oil 
Projects  (SOOP)  took  over  responsibility  for  infrastructure  from 
INOC,  and  the  State  Organization  for  Marketing  Oil  (SOMO) 
assumed  responsibility  for  oil  sales,  leaving  INOC  free  to  oversee 
oil  production. 

Oil  in  the  1980s 

In  1987  petroleum  continued  to  dominate  the  Iraqi  economy, 
accounting  for  more  than  one-third  of  nominal  gross  national 
product  (GNP — see  Glossary)  and  99  percent  of  merchandise 
exports.  Prior  to  the  war,  Iraq's  oil  production  had  reached  3.5  mil- 
lion bpd  (barrels  per  day — see  Glossary),  and  its  exports  had  stood 
at  3.2  million  bpd.  In  the  opening  weeks  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War, 
however,  Iraq's  two  main  offshore  export  terminals  in  the  Persian 
Gulf,  Mina  al  Bakr  and  Khawr  al  Amayah,  were  severely  damaged 
by  Iranian  attacks,  and  in  1988  they  remained  closed.  Oil  exports 
were  further  restrained  in  April  1982,  when  Syria  closed  the  pipe- 
line running  from  Iraq  to  the  Mediterranean.  In  response,  Iraq 
launched  a  major  effort  to  establish  alternative  channels  for  its  oil 
exports.  As  an  emergency  measure,  Iraq  started  to  transport  oil 
by  tanker-truck  caravans  across  Jordan  and  Turkey.  In  1988  Iraq 
continued  to  export  nearly  250,000  bpd  by  this  method.  In 
mid- 1984,  the  expansion  of  the  existing  pipeline  through  Turkey 
was  accomplished  by  looping  the  line  and  by  adding  pumping  sta- 
tions. The  expansion  raised  the  line's  throughput  capacity  to  about 
1  million  bpd.  In  November  1985,  Iraq  started  work  on  an  addi- 
tional expansion  of  this  outlet  by  building  a  parallel  pipeline  between 
Kirkuk  and  Dortyol  that  used  the  existing  line's  pumping  stations. 
Work  was  completed  in  July  1987.  The  result  was  an  increase  in 
exports  through  Turkey  of  500,000  bpd. 


142 


The  Economy 


In  September  1985,  construction  of  a  spur  line  from  Az  Zubayr 
in  southern  Iraq  to  Saudi  Arabia  was  completed;  the  spur  linked 
up  with  an  existing  pipeline  running  across  Saudi  Arabia  to  the 
Red  Sea  port  of  Yanbu.  The  spur  line  had  a  carrying  capacity  of 
500,000  bpd.  Phase  two  of  this  project  was  begun  in  late  1987  by 
a  Japanese-South  Korean-Italian-French  consortium.  Phase  two 
was  to  be  an  independent  pipeline,  parallel  to  the  existing  pipe- 
line, which  would  run  1 ,000  kilometers  from  Az  Zubayr  to  Yanbu 
and  its  own  loading  terminal.  The  parallel  pipeline  was  expected 
to  add  1.15  million  bpd  to  Iraq's  export  capacity  when  completed 
in  late  1989.  Iraq  negotiated  with  the  contractors  to  pay  its  bill 
entirely  in  oil  at  the  rate  of  110,000  bpd.  According  to  Minister 
of  Petroleum  Isam  Abd  ar  Rahim  al  Jalabi,  Iraq  negotiated  special 
legal  arrangements  with  Saudi  Arabia  guaranteeing  Iraqi  owner- 
ship of  the  pipeline.  Iraq  also  considered  construction  of  a  1 -million 
bpd  pipeline  through  Jordan  to  the  Gulf  of  Aqaba,  but  in  1988 
this  project  was  shelved. 

The  expansion  of  export  capacity  induced  Iraq  to  try  to  boost 
its  oil  production,  which  in  1987  averaged  2.8  million  bpd  of  which 
1.8  million  bpd  were  exported.  The  remainder  was  retained  for 
domestic  use.  In  addition,  Iraq  continued  to  receive  oil  donations 
of  between  200,000  and  300,000  bpd  from  Kuwait  and  Saudi  Arabia 
pumped  out  of  the  Neutral  Zone  on  the  east  end  of  Iraq's  southern 
border  with  Saudi  Arabia.  By  the  end  of  1989,  Iraq's  goal  was  to 
have  the  capacity  to  produce  oil  for  export  at  the  prewar  level  of 
3.5  million  bpd  without  having  to  depend  on  any  exports  by  ship 
through  the  Persian  Gulf;  however,  at  a  posted  price  of  approxi- 
mately US$18  per  barrel,  and  with  spot  prices  at  less  than  US$13 
per  barrel,  oil  was  worth  less  than  half  as  much  in  1988  as  it  was 
when  the  Iran-Iraq  War  started.  Iraq's  oil  revenue  in  1987  was 
estimated  at  US$11.3  billion,  up  about  60  percent  from  the  1986 
level  of  US$6.8  billion  (see  table  6,  Appendix). 

The  expanded  export  capacity  theoretically  gave  Iraq  greater  lever- 
age in  negotiating  an  increase  in  its  OPEC  quota.  For  the  first  several 
years  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War,  Iraq  attempted  to  stay  within  its  OPEC 
quota  in  order  to  bring  OPEC  pressure  to  bear  on  Iran  to  curtail 
its  production.  In  early  1988,  this  issue  was  moot,  however,  because 
Iraq  had  announced  in  1986  that  it  would  not  recognize  its 
1.54  million  bpd  quota  and  would  produce  whatever  amount  best 
served  Iraqi  national  interests.  In  1987,  however,  Iraqi  oil  minister 
Jalabi  reasserted  Iraq's  willingness  to  hold  its  oil  production  to  the 
1 .54  million  bpd  OPEC  quota  if  Iran  adhered  to  an  identical  quota 
level.  This  would  represent  a  decrease  of  about  40  percent  from  the 
2.61  million  bpd  that  Iran  was  authorized  by  OPEC  to  produce. 


143 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

When  Jalabi  was  appointed  Iraq's  oil  minister  in  March  1987, 
he  instituted  a  new  round  of  reorganizations  in  the  petroleum  sec- 
tor. The  Ministry  of  Oil  assimilated  INOC,  thus  consolidating 
management  of  Iraq's  oil  production  and  distribution.  The  NPO 
absorbed  the  CPO.  This  organization,  along  with  SOOP,  was  to 
be  granted  corporate  status  in  an  effort  to  make  it  more  efficient. 
Jalabi  was  also  concerned  about  the  proper  handling  of  Iraq's  large 
hydrocarbon  reserves.  Although  estimates  of  Iraqi  hydrocarbon 
reserves  in  the  late  1980s  varied  considerably,  by  all  accounts  they 
were  immense.  In  1984,  Iraq  claimed  proven  reserves  of  65  bil- 
lion barrels  plus  49  billion  barrels  of  "semi-proven "reserves.  In 
November  1987,  Iraq's  state-owned  Oil  Exploration  Company  cal- 
culated official  reserves  at  72  billion  barrels,  but  the  company's 
director,  Hashim  al  Kharasan,  stated  that  this  figure  would  be 
revised  upward  to  100  billion  barrels  in  the  near  future.  In  late 
1987,  oil  minister  Jalabi  said  that  Iraqi  reserves  were  "100  billion 
barrels  definite,  and  40  billion  barrels  probable,"  which  would  con- 
stitute 140  years  of  production  at  the  1987  rate.  Western  petroleum 
geologists,  although  somewhat  more  conservative  in  their  estimates, 
generally  concurred  with  Iraq's  assessment;  some  said  that  Iraq 
had  the  greatest  potential  for  new  discoveries  of  all  Middle  Eastern 
Countries. 

Besides  petroleum,  Iraq  had  estimated  natural  gas  reserves  of 
nearly  850  billion  cubic  meters,  almost  all  of  which  was  associated 
with  oil.  For  this  reason,  most  natural  gas  was  flared  off  at  oil  wells. 
Of  the  estimated  7  million  cubic  meters  of  natural  gas  produced 
in  1987,  an  estimated  5  million  cubic  meters  were  flared.  Iraq's 
Fifth  Five-Year  Plan  of  1986-90  included  projects  to  exploit  this 
heretofore  wasted  asset. 

The  war  did  not  impede  Iraqi  investment  in  the  oil  sector.  On 
the  contrary,  it  spurred  rapid  development.  The  government 
announced  in  1987  that,  during  the  previous  10  years,  67  oil-related 
infrastructure  projects  costing  US$2.85  billion  had  been  completed 
and  that  another  19  projects  costing  US$2.75  billion  were  under 
way.  One  Iraqi  priority  was  to  exploit  natural  gas  reserves.  Because 
natural  gas  is  more  difficult  to  process  and  to  market  than  petro- 
leum, the  Ministry  of  Oil  in  late  1987  called  for  the  substitution 
of  natural  gas  for  oil  in  domestic  consumption,  a  move  that  could 
free  more  oil  for  export. 

Therefore,  it  became  a  key  goal  to  convey  natural  gas  from  oil 
fields  to  industrial  areas,  where  the  gas  could  then  be  used.  In  1987 
the  Soviet  Union's  Tsevetmetpromexport  (TSMPE)  was  construct- 
ing a  main  artery  for  such  a  system,  the  strategic  trans-Iraq  dry 
gas  pipeline  running  northward  from  An  Nasiriyah.  In  1986  work 


144 


The  Economy 


was  started  on  liquefaction  facilities  and  on  a  pipeline  to  transport 
11.3  billion  cubic  meters  per  day  of  natural  gas  from  Iraq's  North 
Rumaylah  oil  field  to  Kuwait. 

Another  focus  of  Iraqi  investment  was  the  maintenance  and  aug- 
mentation of  the  oil  industry's  refining  capacity.  Before  the  war, 
Iraq  had  a  refining  capacity  of  320,000  bpd,  140,000  barrels  of 
which  were  produced  by  the  southern  refinery  at  Basra  and  80,000 
of  which  were  produced  by  the  Durah  refinery,  near  Baghdad.  In 
the  opening  days  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War,  the  Basra  refinery  was 
damaged  severely,  and  as  of  early  1988  it  remained  closed.  The 
Durah  refinery,  however,  remained  in  operation,  and  new  instal- 
lations, including  the  70,000  bpd  Salah  ad  Din  I  refinery  and  the 
150,000  bpd  northern  Baiji  refinery,  boosted  Iraq's  capacity  past 
400,000  bpd.  About  300,000  bpd  were  consumed  domestically, 
much  of  which  was  used  to  sustain  the  war  effort. 

A  second  thrust  of  Iraqi  oil  policy  in  the  late  1980s  was  the  devel- 
opment, with  Soviet  assistance,  of  a  major  new  oil  field.  In  Sep- 
tember 1987,  during  the  eighteenth  session  of  the  Iraqi-Soviet  Joint 
Commission  on  Economic  and  Technical  Cooperation,  held  in 
Baghdad,  Iraq's  SOOP  signed  an  agreement  with  the  Soviet 
Union's  Techno-Export  to  develop  the  West  Al  Qurnah  oilfield. 
This  oilfield  was  regarded  as  one  of  Iraq's  most  promising,  with 
an  eventual  potential  yield  of  600,000  bpd.  Techno-Export  planned 
to  start  by  constructing  the  degassing,  pumping,  storage,  and  trans- 
portation facilities  at  West  Al  Qurnah's  Mishrif  reservoir,  expected 
to  produce  200,000  bpd. 

Industrialization 

The  nonpetroleum  industrial  sector  of  the  Iraqi  economy  grew 
tremendously  after  Iraq  gained  independence  in  1932.  Although 
growth  in  absolute  terms  was  significant,  high  annual  growth  rates 
can  also  be  attributed  to  the  very  low  level  from  which  industriali- 
zation started.  Under  Ottoman  rule,  manufacture  consisted  almost 
entirely  of  handicrafts  and  the  products  of  artisan  shops.  The  avail- 
ability of  electricity  and  lines  of  communication  and  transporta- 
tion after  World  War  I  led  to  the  establishment  of  the  first  large-scale 
industries,  but  industrial  development  remained  slow  in  the  first 
years  after  independence.  The  private  sector,  which  controlled  most 
of  the  nation's  capital,  hesitated  to  invest  in  manufacturing  because 
the  domestic  market  was  small,  disposable  income  was  low,  and 
infrastructure  was  primitive;  moreover,  investment  in  agricultural 
land  yielded  a  higher  rate  of  return  than  did  investment  in  capital 
stock.  World  War  II  fueled  demand  for  manufactured  goods,  and 
large  public  sector  investments  after  1951,  made  possible  by  the 


145 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

jump  in  state  oil  revenues,  stimulated  industrial  growth.  Manufac- 
turing output  increased  10  percent  annually  in  the  1950s. 

Industrial  development  slowed  after  the  overthrow  of  the  monar- 
chy during  the  1958  revolution.  The  socialist  rhetoric  and  the  land 
reform  measures  frightened  private  investors,  and  capital  began 
leaving  the  country.  Although  the  regime  led  by  Abd  al  Karim 
Qasim  excepted  industry  from  the  nationalization  imposed  on  the 
agricultural  and  the  petroleum  sectors,  in  July  1964  a  new  govern- 
ment decreed  nationalization  of  the  twenty-seven  largest  privately 
owned  industrial  firms.  The  government  reorganized  other  large 
companies,  put  a  low  limit  on  individual  shareholdings,  allocated 
25  percent  of  corporate  profits  to  workers,  and  instituted  worker 
participation  in  management.  A  series  of  decrees  relegated  the  pri- 
vate sector  to  a  minor  role  and  provoked  an  exodus  of  managers 
and  administrators,  accompanied  by  capital  flight.  The  govern- 
ment was  incapable  of  filling  the  vacuum  it  had  created,  either  in 
terms  of  money  or  of  trained  manpower,  and  industrial  develop- 
ment slowed  to  about  6  percent  per  year  in  the  1960s. 

After  the  1968  Baath  revolution,  the  government  gave  a  higher 
priority  to  industrial  development.  By  1978  the  government  had 
revamped  the  public  industrial  sector  by  organizing  ten  semi- 
independent  state  organizations  for  major  industry  sub  sectors,  such 
as  spinning  and  weaving,  chemicals,  and  engineering.  Factory 
managers  were  given  some  autonomy,  and  an  effort  was  made  to 
hold  them  responsible  for  meeting  goals.  Despite  Iraq's  attempt 
to  rationalize  and  reorganize  the  public  sector,  state  organizations 
remained  overstaffed  because  social  legislation  made  it  nearly  impos- 
sible to  lay  off  or  to  transfer  workers  and  bureaucratization  made 
the  organizations  top-heavy  with  unproductive  management.  The 
government  acknowledged  that  unused  capacity,  overstocking  of 
inventories,  and  lost  production  time,  because  of  shortages  or  dis- 
ruptions of  supply,  continued  to  plague  the  industrial  sector. 

The  government  attempted  to  strengthen  public  sector  industry 
by  pouring  money  into  it.  According  to  official  figures,  annual 
investment  in  the  nonpetroleum  industrial  sector  rose  from  ID39.5 
million  in  1968  to  ID752.5  million  in  1985.  As  a  consequence, 
industrial  output  rose;  the  government  put  the  total  value  of  Iraq's 
industrial  output  in  1984  at  almost  ID2  billion,  up  from  about 
ID300  million  in  1968  and  up  more  than  50  percent  from  the  start 
of  the  Iran-Iraq  War.  The  total  value  of  industrial  input  in  1984 
was  ID981  million,  so  value  added  was  in  excess  of  100  percent. 
Productivity  relative  to  investment,  however,  remained  low. 

Because  of  revenues  from  oil  exports,  the  government  believed 
it  could  afford  to  pursue  an  ambitious  and  expensive  policy  of 


146 


Students  learning  foundry  (tool  and  dye)  skills 
at  a  technical  instruction  center 
Courtesy  United  Nations 

import  substitution  industrialization  that  would  move  the  economy 
away  from  dependence  on  oil  exports  to  obtain  foreign  exchange. 
In  the  early  1970s,  Iraq  made  capital  investments  in  large-scale 
industrial  facilities  such  as  steel  plants.  Many  of  the  facilities  were 
purchased  from  foreign  contractors  and  builders  on  a  turnkey  basis. 
But  Iraq  neglected  development  of  the  next  stage  in  the  industrial 
process,  the  transformation  of  processed  raw  materials  into  inter- 
mediate products,  such  as  construction  girders,  iron  pipes,  and  steel 
parts.  These  bottlenecks  in  turn  hampered  the  development  of  more 
sophisticated  industries,  such  as  machinery  manufacture.  Plant  con- 
struction also  outpaced  infrastructure  development.  Many  plants, 
for  example,  were  inadequately  linked  by  road  or  rail  to  outlets. 
Excess  capacity  remained  a  problem,  as  the  large  industrial  plants 
continued  to  strain  the  economy's  ability  to  absorb  new  goods.  In 
an  attempt  to  overcome  these  problems,  Iraq  imported  the  finished 
products  and  materials  it  required,  defeating  the  purpose  of  its 
import  substitution  industrialization  strategy  and  making  the  large 
extractive  industries  somewhat  redundant.  Imports  of  various  basic 
commodities,  such  as  plastics  and  chemicals,  doubled  and  tripled 
in  the  1970s.  Most  imports  were  consumed  rather  than  used  as 
intermediate  components  in  industry;  when  imports  were  used  as 
industrial  inputs,  value  added  tended  to  be  low.  Concurrently, 


147 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

tariffs  and  other  trade  barriers  erected  to  protect  domestic  infant 
industry  from  foreign  competition  impeded  the  importation  of  cer- 
tain vital  materials,  particularly  spare  parts  and  machinery.  The 
growth  of  small-scale  industries  in  the  private  sector  and  the  rise 
in  the  standard  of  living  in  general  were  inhibited  by  such  restric- 
tions. Subsidized  by  oil  revenues,  the  industrialization  strategy 
yielded  growth,  but  only  at  great  cost. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  cumulative  fiscal  effects  of  the  war  with 
Iran  forced  Iraq  to  reverse  priorities  and  to  focus  on  the  export 
side  of  the  trade  equation.  Although  the  government  previously 
had  attempted  to  diversify  the  economy  in  order  to  minimize 
dependence  on  natural  resources,  it  was  now  forced  to  concentrate 
on  generating  export  income  from  extractive  industry,  in  which 
it  had  a  comparative  advantage,  rather  than  on  producing  more 
sophisticated  manufactured  goods.  At  the  same  time,  in  conjunc- 
tion with  its  gradual  move  toward  privatization,  the  government 
ceded  greater  responsibility  to  the  private  sector  for  the  manufac- 
ture of  light  consumer  items  as  import  substitutes.  In  1983  legisla- 
tion exempted  the  private  sector  from  customs  duties  and  from 
excise  taxes  on  imported  spare  parts  and  on  machinery  needed  to 
build  factories.  The  private  sector  was  also  given  tax  exemptions 
for  capital  investment  and  for  research  and  development  spend- 
ing. Finally,  the  replacement  of  sole  proprietorships  by  joint  stock 
companies  was  encouraged  as  a  means  of  tapping  more  private 
investment.  In  a  1987  reorganization,  the  Ministry  of  Light  Indus- 
tries was  renamed  the  Ministry  of  Industry,  and  the  Ministry  of 
Industry  and  Minerals  was  renamed  the  Ministry  of  Heavy  Indus- 
try. New  ministers  were  appointed  and  were  charged  with  improv- 
ing both  the  the  quality  and  quantity  of  industrial  output;  large 
parts  of  the  state  bureaucracy  that  had  controlled  industry  were 
abolished. 

According  to  official  Iraqi  figures,  the  total  industrial  labor  force 
in  1984  consisted  of  about  170,000  workers.  State-operated  facto- 
ries employed  slightly  more  than  80  percent  of  these  workers,  while 
13  percent  worked  in  the  private  sector.  The  remaining  7  percent 
worked  in  the  mixed  economy,  which  consisted  of  factories  oper- 
ated jointly  by  the  state — which  held  a  major  share  of  the  com- 
mon stock — and  the  private  sector.  Men  constituted  87  percent  of 
the  industrial  work  force.  According  to  the  Iraqi  government,  in 
1984  there  were  782  industrial  establishments,  ranging  in  size  from 
small  workshops  employing  30  workers  to  large  factories  with  more 
than  1,000  employees.  Of  these,  67  percent  were  privately  owned. 
The  private  sector  owned  two-thirds  of  the  factories,  but  employed 
only  13  percent  of  the  industrial  labor  force.  Privately  owned 


148 


The  Economy 


industrial  establishments  were,  therefore,  relatively  numerous,  but 
they  were  also  relatively  small  and  more  capital-intensive.  Only 
three  privately  owned  factories  employed  more  than  250  workers; 
the  great  majority  employed  fewer  than  100  people  each.  Private- 
sector  plant  ownership  tended  to  be  dispersed  throughout  indus- 
try and  was  not  concentrated  in  any  special  trade,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  the  production  of  metal  items  such  as  tools  and  utensils. 

Although  the  private  sector  accounted  for  40  percent  of  produc- 
tion in  this  area,  the  metal  items  sector  itself  constituted  no  more 
than  a  cottage  industry.  Figures  published  by  the  Iraqi  Federation 
of  Industries  claimed  that  the  private  sector  dominated  the  con- 
struction industry  if  measurement  were  based  not  on  the  number 
of  employees  or  on  the  value  of  output,  but  on  the  amount  of  capi- 
tal investment.  In  1981,  such  private-sector  capital  investment  in 
the  construction  industry  was  57  percent  of  total  investment.  By 
this  alternative  measurement,  private  sector  involvement  in  the  tex- 
tile and  the  food  processing  industries  was  above  average.  In  con- 
trast, about  forty- six  state-owned  factories  employed  more  than 
1,000  workers  apiece,  and  several  industrial  sectors,  such  as  min- 
ing and  steel  production,  were  entirely  state  dominated. 

In  1984  Iraq's  top  industry,  as  measured  by  the  number  of 
employees,  was  the  nonmetallic  mineral  industry,  which  employed 
18  percent  of  industrial  workers  and  accounted  for  14  percent  of 
the  value  of  total  industrial  output.  The  nonmetallic  mineral  indus- 
try was  based  primarily  on  extracting  and  processing  sulfur  and 
phosphate  rock,  although  manufacturing  of  construction  materi- 
als, such  as  glass  and  brick,  was  also  included  in  this  category. 
Production  of  sulfur  and  of  sulfuric  acid  was  a  priority  because  much 
of  the  output  was  exported;  phosphates  were  likewise  important 
because  they  were  used  in  fertilizer  production.  Mining  of  sulfur 
began  at  Mishraq,  near  Mosul,  in  1972;  production  capacity  was 
1.25  million  tons  per  year  by  1988.  With  the  help  of  Japan,  Iraq 
in  the  late  1980s  was  augmenting  the  Mishraq  sulfur  works  with 
the  intent  of  boosting  sulfur  exports  30  percent  from  their  1987 
level  of  500,000  tons  per  year  and  of  increasing  exports  of  sulfuric 
acid  by  10,000  tons  annually.  Iraq  was  also  attempting  to  increase 
the  rate  of  sulfur  recovery  from  oil  from  its  1987  level  of  90  per- 
cent (see  fig.  9). 

Phosphate  rock  reserves  were  located  mainly  in  the  Akashat  area 
northwest  of  Baghdad  and  were  estimated  in  1987  at  5.5  billion 
tons — enough  to  meet  local  needs  for  centuries.  A  fertilizer  plant 
at  Al  Qaim,  linked  by  rail  to  the  Akashat  mine,  started  produc- 
tion in  1984;  it  was  soon  converting  3.4  million  tons  of  phosphate 
per  year  into  fertilizer.  As  the  Al  Qaim  operation  came  onstream, 


149 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Boundary  representation 
nor  necessarily  authoritative 

39 

j 

 L 


Figure  9.  Economic  Activity,  1988 


Iraq  became  self-sufficient  in  fertilizer,  and  three-quarters  of  the 
plant's  output  was  exported.  Iranian  attacks  on  Iraqi  fertilizer  plants 
in  the  Basra  area,  however,  cut  Iraq's  surplus.  In  1986  Iraq  obtained 


150 


The  Economy 


Lake  Urmia 


Caspian^  Sea 


 .  International  boundary  g  Light  industry 

®     National  capital  £J  Steel 


Electric  power 
Q[     Fertilizer  plant 
Food  processing 
Cement 


m  Textile  mill 
"J*  Dates 

S  Sulfur 

P  Phosphate 


Principal  agricultural  areas 


0  25  50  100  Kilometers 
I  1 — H  1 — 1  . 

50  100 


IRAQ-  "\ 
SAUDI  ARABIA  \  48 
NEUTRAL  ZONE  V.. 


(Persian  QuCf 


a  US$10  million  loan  from  the  Islamic  Development  Bank  to  import 
urea  fertilizer,  and  in  1987  Iraq  continued  to  import  fertilizer  as 
an  emergency  measure.  Meanwhile,  additional  fertilizer  plants  were 


151 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

under  construction  in  1987  at  Shuwairah,  near  Mosul,  and  at  Baiji. 
Their  completion  would  bring  to  five  the  number  of  Iraqi  fertilizer 
plants  and  would  increase  exports  considerably. 

Another  important  component  of  the  mineral  sector  was  cement 
production.  Iraq's  1987  cement  production  capacity  was  12  mil- 
lion tons,  and  the  government  planned  a  near  doubling  of  produc- 
tion. Domestic  consumption  in  1986  was  7.5  million  tons,  and  the 
surplus  was  exported,  1  million  tons  to  Egypt  alone. 

In  addition  to  the  nonmetallic  minerals  industry,  several  other 
industries  employed  significant  percentages  of  the  work  force.  The 
chemical  and  petrochemical  industry,  concentrated  at  Khawr  az 
Zubayr,  was  the  second  largest  industrial  employer,  providing  work 
for  17  percent  of  the  industrial  work  force.  Chemicals  and  petro- 
chemicals accounted  for  a  relatively  high  30  percent  of  the  total 
value  of  industrial  output  because  of  the  high  value  of  raw  material 
inputs  and  the  higher  value  added — more  than  150  percent.  The 
labor-intensive  textile  industry  employed  15  percent  of  industrial 
workers  but  accounted  for  only  7  percent  of  the  value  of  total  indus- 
trial output.  A  major  state-owned  textile  factory  in  Mosul  produced 
calico  from  locally  grown  cotton.  The  foodstuffs  processing  and 
packaging  industry,  which  employed  14  percent  of  the  total  indus- 
trial labor  force,  accounted  for  20  percent  of  total  output,  but  the 
value  added  was  less  than  50  percent.  Light  manufacturing  indus- 
tries based  on  natural  resources,  such  as  paper,  cigarettes,  and 
leather  and  shoe  production,  together  accounted  for  10  percent  of 
the  value  of  total  industrial  output. 

By  the  mid-1980s,  efforts  to  upgrade  industrial  capacity  from 
the  extracting  and  processing  of  natural  resources  to  heavy  indus- 
try, to  the  manufacturing  of  higher  technology  and  to  the  produc- 
tion of  consumer  items  were  still  not  fully  successful.  An  iron  and 
steel  works  built  in  1978  by  the  French  company,  Creusot-Loire, 
at  Khawr  az  Zubayr,  was  expected  to  attain  an  annual  production 
level  of  1.2  million  tons  of  smelted  iron  ore  and  400,000  tons  of 
steel.  Other  smelters,  foundries,  and  form  works  were  under  con- 
struction in  1988.  (In  1984  this  sector  of  the  economy  accounted 
for  less  than  2  percent  of  total  output.)  Manufacture  of  machinery 
and  transport  equipment  accounted  for  only  6  percent  of  output 
value,  and  value  added  was  fairly  low,  suggesting  that  Iraq  was 
assembling  imported  intermediate  components  to  make  finished 
products.  A  single  factory  established  in  the  1980s  with  Soviet 
assistance  and  located  at  Al  Musayyib,  produced  tractors.  In  1981, 
Iraq  contracted  with  a  company  from  the  Federal  Republic  of  Ger- 
many (West  Germay)  to  develop  the  domestic  capability  to  produce 
motor  vehicles.  Plans  called  for  production  of  120,000  passenger 


152 


The  Economy 


cars  and  25,000  trucks  per  year,  but  the  project's  US$5  billion  cost 
led  to  indefinite  delays. 

By  the  late  1980s,  Iraq  had  had  some  success  in  establishing  light 
industries  to  produce  items  such  as  spark  plugs,  batteries,  locks, 
and  household  appliances.  The  electronics  industry,  concentrated 
in  Baghdad,  had  grown  to  account  for  about  6  percent  of  output 
with  the  help  of  Thompson-CSF  (that  is,  Compagnie  sans  fil)  of 
France  and  the  Soviet  Union.  Other  more  advanced  industries  just 
starting  to  develop  in  Iraq  in  the  late  1980s  were  pharmaceuticals 
and  plastics. 

Agriculture 

Since  the  beginning  of  recorded  time,  agriculture  has  been  the 
primary  economic  activity  of  the  people  of  Iraq.  In  1976,  agricul- 
ture contributed  about  8  percent  of  Iraq's  total  GDP,  and  it 
employed  more  than  half  the  total  labor  force.  In  1986,  despite  a 
ten-year  Iraqi  investment  in  agricultural  development  that  totaled 
more  than  US$4  billion,  the  sector  still  accounted  for  only  7.5  per- 
cent of  total  GDP,  a  figure  that  was  predicted  to  decline.  In  1986 
agriculture  continued  to  employ  a  significant  portion — about 
30  percent — of  Iraq's  total  labor  force.  Part  of  the  reason  the  agri- 
cultural share  of  GDP  remained  small  was  that  the  sector  was  over- 
whelmed by  expansion  of  the  oil  sector,  which  boosted  total  GDP. 

Large  year-to-year  fluctuations  in  Iraqi  harvests,  caused  by  varia- 
bility in  the  amount  of  rainfall,  made  estimates  of  average  produc- 
tion problematic,  but  statistics  indicated  that  the  production  levels 
for  key  grain  crops  remained  approximately  stable  from  the  1960s 
through  the  1980s,  with  yield  increasing  while  total  cultivated  area 
declined.  Increasing  Iraqi  food  imports  were  indicative  of  agricul- 
tural stagnation.  In  the  late  1950s,  Iraq  was  self-sufficient  in  agricul- 
tural production,  but  in  the  1960s  it  imported  about  15  percent 
of  its  food  supplies,  and  by  the  1970s  it  imported  about  33  percent 
of  its  food.  By  the  early  1980s,  food  imports  accounted  for  about 
15  percent  of  total  imports,  and  in  1984,  according  to  Iraqi  statis- 
tics, food  imports  comprised  about  22  percent  of  total  imports. 
Many  experts  expressed  the  opinion  that  Iraq  had  the  potential 
for  substantial  agricultural  growth,  but  restrictions  on  water  sup- 
plies, caused  by  Syrian  and  Turkish  dam  building  on  the  Tigris 
and  Euphrates  rivers,  might  limit  this  expansion. 

Water  Resources 

Iraq  has  more  water  than  most  Middle  Eastern  nations,  which 
led  to  the  establishment  of  one  of  the  world's  earliest  and 
most  advanced  civilizations.  Strong,  centralized  governments — a 


153 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

phenomenon  known  as  "hydraulic  despotism" — emerged  because 
of  the  need  for  organization  and  for  technology  in  order  to  exploit 
the  Tigris  and  Euphrates  rivers.  Archaeologists  believe  that  the  high 
point  in  the  development  of  the  irrigation  system  occurred  about 
500  A.D.,  when  a  network  of  irrigation  canals  permitted  widespread 
cultivation  that  made  the  river  basin  into  a  regional  granary  (see 
Ancient  Mesopotamia,  ch.  1).  Having  been  poorly  maintained, 
the  irrigation  and  drainage  canals  had  deteriorated  badly  by  the 
twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries,  when  the  Mongols  destroyed  what 
remained  of  the  system  (see  The  Mongol  Invasion,  ch.  1). 

About  one-fifth  of  Iraq's  territory  consists  of  farmland.  About 
half  of  this  total  cultivated  area  is  in  the  northeastern  plains  and 
mountain  valleys,  where  sufficient  rain  falls  to  sustain  agriculture. 
The  remainder  of  the  cultivated  land  is  in  the  valleys  of  the 
Euphrates  and  Tigris  rivers,  which  receive  scant  rainfall  and  rely 
instead  on  water  from  the  rivers.  Both  rivers  are  fed  by  snowpack 
and  rainfall  in  eastern  Turkey  and  in  northwest  Iran.  The  rivers' 
discharge  peaks  in  March  and  in  May,  too  late  for  winter  crops 
and  too  early  for  summer  crops.  The  flow  of  the  rivers  varies  con- 
siderably every  year.  Destructive  flooding,  particularly  of  the  Tigris, 
is  not  uncommon,  and  some  scholars  have  placed  numerous  great 
flood  legends,  including  the  biblical  story  of  Noah  and  the  ark,  in 
this  area.  Conversely,  years  of  low  flow  make  irrigation  and  agricul- 
ture difficult. 

Not  until  the  twentieth  century  did  Iraq  make  a  concerted  effort 
to  restore  its  irrigation  and  drainage  network  and  to  control  seasonal 
flooding.  Various  regimes  constructed  several  large  dams  and  river 
control  projects,  rehabilitated  old  canals,  and  built  new  irrigation 
systems.  Barrages  were  constructed  on  both  the  Tigris  and  the 
Euphrates  to  channel  water  into  natural  depressions  so  that  floods 
could  be  controlled.  It  was  also  hoped  that  the  water  could  be  used 
for  irrigation  after  the  rivers  peaked  in  the  spring,  but  the  combi- 
nation of  high  evaporation  from  the  reservoirs  and  the  absorption 
of  salt  residues  in  the  depressions  made  some  of  the  water  too  brack- 
ish for  agricultural  use.  Some  dams  that  created  large  reservoirs 
were  built  in  the  valleys  of  tributaries  of  the  Tigris,  a  measure  that 
diminished  spring  flooding  and  evened  out  the  supply  of  water  over 
the  cropping  season.  When  the  Euphrates  was  flowing  at  an  excep- 
tionally low  level  in  1984,  the  government  was  able  to  release  water 
stored  in  reservoirs  to  sustain  farmers. 

In  1988  barrages  or  dam  reservoirs  existed  at  Samarra,  Dukan, 
Darband,  and  Khan  on  the  Tigris  and  Habbaniyah  on  the 
Euphrates.  Two  new  dams  on  the  Tigris  at  Mosul  and  Al  Hadithah, 
named  respectively  the  Saddam  and  Al  Qadisiyah,  were  on  the 


154 


Irrigation  canal  south  of  Baghdad 
Courtesy  Ronald  L.  Kuipers 

verge  of  completion  in  1988.  Furthermore,  a  Chinese-Brazilian  joint 
venture  was  constructing  a  US$2  billion  dam  on  the  Great  Zab 
River,  a  Tigris  tributary  in  northeastern  Iraq.  Additional  dams 
were  planned  for  Badush  and  Fathah,  both  on  the  Tigris.  In 
Hindiyah  on  the  Euphrates  and  in  Ash  Shinafiyah  on  the  Euphrates, 
Chinese  contractors  were  building  a  series  of  barrages. 

Geographic  factors  contributed  to  Iraq's  water  problems.  Like 
all  rivers,  the  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates  carry  large  amounts  of  silt 
downstream.  This  silt  is  deposited  in  river  channels,  in  canals,  and 
on  the  flood  plains.  In  Iraq,  the  soil  has  a  high  saline  content.  As 
the  water  table  rises  through  flooding  or  through  irrigation,  salt 
rises  into  the  topsoil,  rendering  agricultural  land  sterile.  In  addi- 
tion, the  alluvial  silt  is  highly  saline.  Drainage  thus  becomes  very 
important;  however,  Iraq's  terrain  is  very  flat.  Baghdad,  for 
example,  although  550  kilometers  from  the  Persian  Gulf,  is  only 
34  meters  above  sea  level.  This  slight  gradient  makes  the  plains 
susceptible  to  flooding  and,  although  it  facilitates  irrigation,  it  also 
hampers  drainage.  The  flat  terrain  also  provides  relatively  few  sites 
for  dams.  Most  important,  Iraq  lies  downstream  from  both  Syria 
and  Turkey  on  the  Euphrates  River  and  downstream  from  Tur- 
key on  the  Tigris  River.  In  the  early  1970s,  both  Syria  and  Tur- 
key completed  large  dams  on  the  Euphrates  and  filled  vast 
reservoirs.  Iraqi  officials  protested  the  sharp  decrease  in  the  river's 


155 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


flow,  claiming  that  irrigated  areas  along  the  Euphrates  in  Iraq 
dropped  from  136,000  hectares  to  10,000  hectares  from  1974  to 
1975. 

Despite  cordial  relations  between  Iraq  and  Turkey  in  the  late 
1980s,  the  issue  of  water  allocation  continued  to  cause  friction 
between  the  two  governments.  In  1986  Turkey  completed  tunnels 
to  divert  an  estimated  one-fifth  of  the  water  from  the  Euphrates 
into  the  Atatiirk  Dam  reservoir.  The  Turkish  government  reassured 
Iraq  that  in  the  long  run  downstream  flows  would  revert  to  normal. 
Iraqi  protests  were  muted,  because  Iraq  did  not  yet  exploit 
Euphrates  River  water  fully  for  irrigation,  and  the  government  did 
not  wish  to  complicate  its  relationship  with  Turkey  in  the  midst 
of  the  Iran-Iraq  War. 

Land  Tenure  and  Agrarian  Reform 

Iraq's  system  of  land  tenure  and  inefficient  government  imple- 
mentation of  land  reform  contributed  to  the  low  productivity  of 
farmers  and  the  slow  growth  of  the  agricultural  sector.  Land  rights 
had  evolved  over  many  centuries,  incorporating  laws  of  many  cul- 
tures and  countries.  The  Ottoman  Land  Code  of  1858  attempted 
to  impose  order  by  establishing  categories  of  land  and  by  requir- 
ing surveys  and  the  registration  of  land  holdings.  By  World  War 
I,  only  limited  registration  had  been  accomplished  and  land  titles 
were  insecure,  particularly  under  the  system  of  tribal  tenure  through 
which  the  state  retained  ownership  of  the  land  although  tribes  used 
it. 

By  the  early  1930s,  large  landowners  became  more  interested 
in  secure  titles  because  a  period  of  agricultural  expansion  was  under 
way.  In  the  north,  urban  merchants  were  investing  in  land  develop- 
ment, and  in  the  south  tribes  were  installing  pumps  and  were  other- 
wise improving  land  (see  Rural  Society,  ch.  2).  In  response,  the 
government  promulgated  a  law  in  1932  empowering  it  to  settle  title 
to  land  and  to  speed  up  the  registration  of  titles.  Under  the  law, 
a  number  of  tribal  leaders  and  village  headmen  were  granted  title 
to  the  land  that  had  been  worked  by  their  communities.  The  effect, 
perhaps  unintended,  was  to  replace  the  semicommunal  system  with 
a  system  of  ownership  that  increased  the  number  of  sharecroppers 
and  tenants  dramatically.  A  1933  law  provided  that  a  sharecropper 
could  not  leave  if  he  were  indebted  to  the  landowner.  Because  land- 
owners were  usually  the  sole  source  of  credit  and  almost  no 
sharecropper  was  free  of  debt,  the  law  effectively  bound  many 
tenants  to  the  land. 

The  land  tenure  system  under  the  Ottomans,  and  as  modified 
by  subsequent  Iraqi  governments,  provided  little  incentive  to 


156 


The  Economy 


improve  productivity.  Most  farming  was  conducted  by  sharecrop- 
pers and  tenants  who  received  only  a  portion — often  only  a  small 
proportion — of  the  crop.  Any  increase  in  production  favored  owners 
disproportionately,  which  served  as  a  disincentive  to  farmers  to 
produce  at  more  than  subsistence  level.  For  their  part,  absentee 
owners  preferred  to  spend  their  money  in  acquiring  more  land, 
rather  than  to  invest  in  improving  the  land  they  had  already 
accumulated. 

On  the  eve  of  the  1958  revolution,  more  than  two-thirds  of  Iraq's 
cultivated  land  was  concentrated  in  2  percent  of  the  holdings,  while 
at  the  other  extreme,  86  percent  of  the  holdings  covered  less  than 
10  percent  of  the  cultivated  land.  The  prerevolutionary  govern- 
ment was  aware  of  the  inequalities  in  the  countryside  and  of  the 
poor  condition  of  most  tenant  farmers,  but  landlords  constituted 
a  strong  political  force  during  the  monarchical  era,  and  they  were 
able  to  frustrate  remedial  legislation. 

Because  the  promise  of  land  reform  kindled  part  of  the  popular 
enthusiasm  for  the  1958  revolution  and  because  the  powerful  land- 
lords posed  a  potential  threat  to  the  new  regime,  agrarian  reform 
was  high  on  the  agenda  of  the  new  government,  which  started  the 
process  of  land  reform  within  three  months  of  taking  power.  The 
1958  law,  modeled  after  Egypt's  law,  limited  the  maximum  amount 
of  land  an  individual  owner  could  retain  to  1,000  dunums  (100 
hectares)  of  irrigated  land  or  twice  that  amount  of  rain-fed  land. 
Holdings  above  the  maximum  were  expropriated  by  the  govern- 
ment. Compensation  was  to  be  paid  in  state  bonds,  but  in  1969 
the  government  absolved  itself  of  all  responsibility  to  recompense 
owners.  The  law  provided  for  the  expropriation  of  75  percent  of 
all  privately  owned  arable  land. 

The  expropriated  land,  in  parcels  of  between  seven  and  fifteen 
hectares  of  irrigated  land  or  double  that  amount  of  rain-fed  land, 
was  to  be  distributed  to  individuals.  The  recipient  was  to  repay 
the  government  over  a  twenty-year  period,  and  he  was  required 
to  join  a  cooperative.  The  law  also  had  temporary  provisions  main- 
taining the  sharecropping  system  in  the  interim  between  expropria- 
tion and  redistribution  of  the  land.  Landlords  were  required  to 
continue  the  management  of  the  land  and  to  supply  customary 
inputs  to  maintain  production,  but  their  share  of  the  crop  was 
reduced  considerably.  This  provision  grew  in  importance  as  land 
became  expropriated  much  more  rapidly  than  it  was  being  distrib- 
uted. By  1968,  10  years  after  agrarian  reform  was  instituted, 
1.7  million  hectares  had  been  expropriated,  but  fewer  than  440,000 
hectares  of  sequestered  land  had  been  distributed.  A  total  of  645,000 
hectares  had  been  allocated  to  nearly  55,000  families,  however, 


157 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

because  several  hundred  thousand  hectares  of  government  land  were 
included  in  the  distribution. 

The  situation  in  the  countryside  became  chaotic  because  the 
government  lacked  the  personnel,  funds,  and  expertise  to  supply 
credit,  seed,  pumps,  and  marketing  services — functions  that  had 
previously  been  performed  by  landlords.  Landlords  tended  to  cut 
their  production,  and  even  the  best-intentioned  landlords  found 
it  difficult  to  act  as  they  had  before  the  land  reform  because  of  hostil- 
ity on  all  sides.  Moreover,  the  farmers  had  little  interest  in  coopera- 
tives and  joined  them  slowly  and  unwillingly.  Rural-to-urban 
migration  increased  as  agricultural  production  stagnated,  and  a 
prolonged  drought  coincided  with  these  upheavals.  Agricultural 
production  fell  steeply  in  the  1960s  and  never  recovered  fully. 

In  the  1970s,  agrarian  reform  was  carried  further.  Legislation 
in  1970  reduced  the  maximum  size  of  holdings  to  between  10  and 
150  hectares  of  irrigated  land  (depending  on  the  type  of  land  and 
crop)  and  to  between  250  and  500  hectares  of  nonirrigated  land. 
Holdings  above  the  maximum  were  expropriated  with  compensa- 
tion only  for  actual  improvements  such  as  buildings,  pumps,  and 
trees.  The  government  also  reserved  the  right  of  eminent  domain 
in  regard  to  lowering  the  holding  ceiling  and  to  dispossessing  new 
or  old  landholders  for  a  variety  of  reasons.  In  1975  an  additional 
reform  law  was  enacted  to  break  up  the  large  estates  of  Kurdish 
tribal  landowners.  Additional  expropriations  such  as  these  exacer- 
bated the  government's  land  management  problems.  Although  Iraq 
claimed  to  have  distributed  nearly  2  million  hectares  by  the  late 
1970s,  independent  observers  regarded  this  figure  as  greatly  exag- 
gerated. The  government  continued  to  hold  a  large  proportion  of 
arable  land,  which,  because  it  was  not  distributed,  often  lay  fallow. 
Rural  flight  increased,  and  by  the  late  1970s,  farm  labor  shortages 
had  become  so  acute  that  Egyptian  farmers  were  being  invited  into 
the  country. 

The  original  purpose  of  the  land  reform  had  been  to  break  up 
the  large  estates  and  to  establish  many  small  owner-operated  farms, 
but  fragmentation  of  the  farms  made  extensive  mechanization  and 
economies  of  scale  difficult  to  achieve,  despite  the  expansion  of  the 
cooperative  system.  Therefore,  in  the  1970s,  the  government  turned 
to  collectivization  as  a  solution.  By  1981  Iraq  had  established  twenty- 
eight  collective  state  farms  that  employed  1,346  people  and  culti- 
vated about  180,000  hectares.  In  the  1980s,  however,  the  govern- 
ment expressed  disappointment  at  the  slow  pace  of  agricultural 
development,  conceding  that  collectivized  state  farms  were  not 
profitable.  In  1983  the  government  enacted  a  new  law  encourag- 
ing both  local  and  foreign  Arab  companies  or  individuals  to  lease 


158 


The  Economy 


larger  plots  of  land  from  the  government.  By  1984,  more  than  1 ,000 
leases  had  been  granted.  As  a  further  incentive  to  productivity, 
the  government  instituted  a  profit-sharing  plan  at  state  collective 
farms.  By  1987,  the  wheel  appeared  to  have  turned  full  circle  when 
the  government  announced  plans  to  reprivatize  agriculture  by  leas- 
ing or  selling  state  farms  to  the  private  sector. 

Cropping  and  Livestock 

Most  farming  in  Iraq  entails  planting  and  harvesting  a  single 
crop  per  year.  In  the  rain- fed  areas  the  winter  crop,  primarily  grain, 
is  planted  in  the  fall  and  harvested  in  the  spring.  In  the  irrigated 
areas  of  central  and  southern  Iraq,  summer  crops  predominate. 
A  little  multiple  cropping,  usually  of  vegetables,  exists  where  irri- 
gation water  is  available  over  more  than  a  single  season. 

Even  with  some  double  or  triple  cropping,  the  intensity  of  culti- 
vation is  usually  on  the  order  of  50  percent  because  of  the  practice 
of  leaving  about  half  the  arable  land  fallow  each  year.  In  the  rain-fed 
region,  land  is  left  fallow  so  that  it  can  accumulate  moisture.  The 
fertility  of  fallow  land  is  also  increased  by  plowing  under  weeds 
and  other  plant  material  that  grow  during  the  fallow  period.  On 
irrigated  land,  fallow  periods  also  contribute  some  humus  to  the  soil. 

Grain,  primarily  wheat  and  barley,  was  Iraq's  most  important 
crop.  Cereal  production  increased  almost  80  percent  between  1975 
and  1985,  notwithstanding  wide  variations  in  the  harvest  from  year 
to  year  as  the  amount  and  the  timing  of  rainfall  strongly  affected 
both  the  area  planted  and  the  harvest.  Between  1980  and  1985, 
the  area  under  wheat  cultivation  increased  steadily  for  a  cumula- 
tive growth  of  30  percent,  to  about  1,566,500  hectares.  In  1985, 
the  most  recent  year  for  which  statistics  were  available  in  1988, 
Iraq  harvested  a  bumper  crop  of  1 .4  million  tons  of  wheat.  In  1984, 
a  drought  year,  Iraq  harvested  less  than  half  the  planted  area  for 
a  yield  of  between  250,000  and  471,000  tons,  according  to  foreign 
and  Iraqi  sources  respectively.  The  north  and  central  rain-fed  areas 
were  the  principal  wheat  producers  (see  table  7,  Appendix). 

Barley  requires  less  water  than  wheat  does,  and  it  is  more  toler- 
ant of  salinity  in  the  soil.  For  these  reasons,  Iraq  started  to  substi- 
tute barley  production  for  wheat  production  in  the  1970s, 
particularly  in  southern  regions  troubled  by  soil  salinity.  Between 
1980  and  1985,  the  total  area  under  barley  cultivation  grew  44  per- 
cent, and  by  1985  barley  and  wheat  production  were  virtually  equal 
in  terms  both  of  area  cultivated  and  of  total  yield.  Rice,  grown 
in  paddies,  was  Iraq's  third  most  important  crop  as  measured  by 
cultivated  area,  which  in  1985  amounted  to  24,500  hectares.  The 
area  under  cultivation,  however,  did  not  grow  appreciably  between 


159 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

1980  and  1985;  1985  production  totaled  almost  150,000  tons.  Iraq 
also  produced  maize,  millet,  and  oil  seeds  in  smaller  quantities. 

A  number  of  other  crops  were  grown,  but  acreage  and  produc- 
tion were  limited.  With  the  exception  of  tobacco,  of  which  Iraq 
produced  17,000  tons  on  16,500  hectares  in  1985,  cash  crop  produc- 
tion declined  steeply  in  the  1980s.  Probably  because  of  domestic 
competition  from  synthetic  imports  and  a  declining  export  mar- 
ket, production  of  cotton  was  only  7,200  tons  in  1985,  compared 
with  26,000  tons  in  1977.  Production  of  sugar  beets  was  halted  com- 
pletely in  1983,  and  sugarcane  production  declined  by  more  than 
half  between  1980  and  1985. 

Iraq  may  have  cut  back  on  production  of  sugar  beets  and  sugar- 
cane because  of  an  intention  to  produce  sugar  from  dates.  Dates, 
of  which  Iraq  produces  eight  distinct  varieties,  have  long  been  a 
staple  of  the  local  diet.  The  most  abundant  date  groves  were  found 
along  the  Shatt  al  Arab.  In  the  early  1960s,  more  than  30  million 
date  palms  existed.  In  the  mid-1970s,  the  Iraqi  government  esti- 
mated that  the  number  of  date  palms  had  declined  to  about  22  mil- 
lion, at  which  time  production  of  dates  amounted  to  578,000  tons. 
The  devastation  of  the  Shatt  al  Arab  area  during  the  Iran-Iraq  War 
hastened  the  destruction  of  date  palm  groves,  and  in  1985  the 
government  estimated  the  number  of  date  palms  at  fewer  than 
13  million.  Date  production  in  1987  dropped  to  220,000  tons.  The 
government-managed  Iraqi  Date  Administration,  however,  planned 
to  increase  production  in  an  attempt  to  boost  export  revenue.  In 
1987  about  150,000  tons,  or  68  percent  of  the  harvest,  was  exported, 
primarily  to  Western  Europe,  Japan,  India,  and  other  Arab  coun- 
tries. The  Iraqi  Date  Administration  also  devised  plans  to  construct 
large  facilities  to  extract  sugar,  alcohol,  vinegar,  and  concentrated 
protein  meal  from  dates.  Iraq  produced  a  variety  of  other  fruits 
as  well,  including  melons,  grapes,  apples,  apricots,  and  citrus. 
Production  of  such  fruits  increased  almost  30  percent  between  1975 
and  1985. 

Vegetable  production  also  increased,  particularly  near  urban 
centers,  where  a  comparatively  sophisticated  marketing  system  had 
been  developed.  Vegetable  gardening  usually  employed  relatively 
modern  techniques,  including  the  use  of  chemical  fertilizers  and 
pesticides.  Tomatoes  were  the  most  important  crop,  with  produc- 
tion amounting  to  more  than  600,000  tons  in  1985.  Other  vegeta- 
bles produced  in  significant  quantity  were  beans,  eggplant,  okra, 
cucumbers,  and  onions.  Overall  vegetable  production  increased 
almost  90  percent  between  1975  and  1985,  even  though  the  produc- 
tion of  legumes  dropped  about  25  percent  over  the  same  period. 


160 


Date  palms  along  the  Tigris  River  near  Baghdad 
Courtesy  Matson  Collection 


161 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Crop  production  accounted  for  about  two-thirds  of  value  added 
in  the  agricultural  sector  in  the  late  1980s,  and  the  raising  of 
livestock  contributed  about  one-third.  In  the  past,  a  substantial  part 
of  the  rural  population  had  been  nomadic,  moving  animals  between 
seasonal  grazing  areas.  Sheep  and  goats  were  the  most  important 
livestock,  supplying  meat,  wool,  milk,  skins,  and  hair.  A  1978 
government  survey,  which  represented  the  most  recent  official  data 
available  as  of  early  1988,  estimated  the  sheep  population  at  9.7mil- 
lion  and  the  goat  population  at  2.1  million.  Sheep  and  goats  were 
tended  primarily  by  nomadic  and  seminomadic  groups.  The  1978 
survey  estimated  the  number  of  cattle  at  1.7  million,  the  number 
of  water  buffalo  at  170,000,  the  number  of  horses  at  53,000,  and 
the  number  of  camels  at  70,000. 

In  the  1970s,  the  government  started  to  emphasize  livestock  and 
fish  production,  in  an  effort  to  add  protein  to  the  national  diet. 
But  1985's  red  meat  production  (about  93,000  tons)  and  milk 
production  (375,000  tons)  were,  respectively,  about  24  and  23  per- 
cent less  than  the  in  1975  totals,  although  other  figures  indicated 
that  total  livestock  production  remained  stable  between  1976  and 
1985.  In  the  mid-1980s,  however,  British,  West  German,  and  Hun- 
garian companies  were  given  contracts  to  establish  poultry  farms. 
At  the  same  time,  the  government  expanded  aquaculture  and  deep- 
sea  fishing.  Total  production  of  processed  chicken  and  fish  almost 
doubled,  to  about  20,000  tons  apiece,  from  1981  to  1985,  while 
egg  production  increased  substantially,  to  more  than  1  billion  per 
year.  The  government  planned  to  construct  a  US$160  million  deep- 
sea  fishing  facility  in  Basra  and  predicted  that,  within  10  years, 
freshwater  fishing  would  supply  up  to  100,000  tons  of  fish.  Iraq 
nevertheless  continued  to  import  substantial  quantities  of  frozen 
poultry,  meat,  and  fish  to  meet  local  needs  for  protein. 

Transportation 

Transportation  was  one  of  the  Iraqi  economy's  most  active  sec- 
tors in  the  late  1980s;  it  was  allocated  a  large  share  of  the  domestic 
development  budget  because  it  was  important  to  the  government 
for  several  reasons.  Logistics  became  a  crucial  factor  in  Iraq's  con- 
duct of  the  Iran-Iraq  War.  The  government  also  recognized  that 
transportation  bottlenecks  limited  industrial  development  more  than 
any  other  factor.  Finally,  the  government  believed  that  an  expanded 
transportation  system  played  an  important  political  role  by  promot- 
ing regional  integration  and  by  heightening  the  central  govern- 
ment's presence  in  the  more  remote  provinces.  For  these  reasons, 
the  government  embarked  on  an  ambitious  plan  to  upgrade  and 
to  extend  road,  rail,  air,  and  river  transport  simultaneously.  Iraq's 


162 


The  Economy 


main  transportation  axis  ran  roughly  northwest  to  southeast  from 
Mosul  via  Kirkuk  to  Baghdad,  and  then  south  to  Basra  and  the 
Gulf.  In  the  1980s,  efforts  were  underway  to  link  Baghdad  more 
closely  with  the  Euphrates  River  basin  to  the  west  (see  fig.  10). 

Roads 

The  total  length  of  Iraq's  network  of  paved  roads  almost  dou- 
bled between  1979  and  1985,  to  22,397  kilometers,  augmented  by 
an  additional  7,800  kilometers  of  unpaved  secondary  and  feeder 
roads.  In  1987  Iraq's  major  road  project  was  a  1 ,000-kilometer- 
long  segment  of  a  six-lane  international  express  highway  that  would 
eventually  link  the  Persian  Gulf  states  with  the  Mediterranean.  In 
Iraq,  the  road  would  stretch  from  the  Jordanian  border  through 
Ar  Rutbah  to  Tulayah  near  An  Najaf,  then  to  the  southern  Iraqi 
town  of  Ash  Shaykh  ash  Shuyukh,  and  finally  to  the  Kuwaiti  border 
at  Safwan.  Construction  was  under  way  in  the  late  1980s.  Plans 
were  also  being  made  for  another  highway,  which  would  link  Bagh- 
dad with  the  Turkish  border  via  Kirkuk  and  Mosul.  There  was 
progress  as  well  on  a  program  to  build  10,000  kilometers  of  rural 
roads. 

Railroads 

Iraq  possessed  two  separate  railroads  at  independence,  one  stan- 
dard gauge  and  one  meter  gauge.  The  standard  gauge  line  ran  north 
from  Baghdad  through  Mosul  to  the  Syrian  border  and  to  an  even- 
tual connection  with  the  Turkish  railroad  system,  and  the  meter 
gauge  line  ran  south  from  Baghdad  to  Basra.  Because  the  two  sys- 
tems were  incompatible,  until  the  1960s  cargo  had  to  be  transloaded 
at  Baghdad  to  be  transported  between  the  two  halves  of  the  coun- 
try. The  Soviet  Union  helped  extend  the  standard  gauge  system 
to  Basra,  and  by  1977  fully  1,129  kilometers  of  Iraq's  1,589  kilo- 
meters of  railroad  were  standard  gauge.  By  1985  the  total  length 
of  railroad  lines  had  been  extended  to  2,029  kilometers,  of  which 
1,496  kilometers  were  standard  gauge.  In  1985  the  railroads  were 
being  traveled  by  440  standard- gauge  locomotives  that  moved  1 .25 
billion  tons  of  freight  per  kilometer.  A  252-kilometer  line  linking 
Kirkuk  and  Al  Hadithah  was  completed  by  contractors  from  the 
Republic  of  Korea  (South  Korea)  in  1987  after  five  years  of  work. 
Built  at  a  cost  of  US$855  million,  the  line  was  designed  to  carry 
more  than  1  million  passengers  and  more  than  3  million  tons  of 
freight  annually.  The  system  included  maintenance  and  control 
centers  and  more  than  thirty  bridges  crossing  the  Tigris  and 
Euphrates  rivers.  By  the  end  of  the  century,  Iraq  planned  to  triple 
the  line's  passenger  capacity  and  to  double  its  freight  capacity. 


163 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


 I  ^  I  I 

Figure  10.  Transportation  System,  1988 

A  550-kilometer  line,  built  by  a  Brazilian  company  and  extending 
from  Baghdad  to  Qusaybah  on  the  Syrian  border,  was  also  opened 
in  the  same  year.  In  1987  Indian  contractors  were  finishing  work 


164 


The  Economy 


on  a  line  between  Al  Musayyib  and  Samarra.  Iraqi  plans  also  called 
for  replacing  the  entire  stretch  of  railroad  between  Mosul  and  Basra 
with  modern,  high-speed  track,  feeding  all  lines  entering  Baghdad 


165 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

into  a  1 12-kilometer  loop  around  the  city,  and  improving  bridges, 
freight  terminals,  and  passenger  stations.  In  addition,  Iraq  has  con- 
ducted intermittent  negotiations  over  the  years  with  Turkey, 
Kuwait,  and  Saudi  Arabia  concerning  the  establishment  of  rail  links 
to  complete  a  continuous  Europe-Persian  Gulf  railroad  route. 

Ports 

At  independence,  Iraq  had  little  port  capacity,  a  fact  that  reflected 
the  low  level  of  foreign  trade  and  the  country's  traditional  over- 
land orientation  toward  Syria  and  Turkey  rather  than  toward  the 
Gulf.  Since  then,  the  Gulf  port  of  Basra  has  been  expanded  many 
times,  and  a  newer  port  was  built  at  Umm  Qasr  to  relieve  pres- 
sure on  Basra.  Oil  terminals  were  located  at  Khawr  al  Amayah, 
and  Mina  al  Bakr,  Al  Faw,  and  a  port  was  built  in  tandem  with 
an  industrial  center  at  Khawr  az  Zubayr.  Because  Iraq's  access 
to  the  Gulf  was  an  Iranian  target  in  the  Iran-Iraq  War,  port 
activities  were  curtailed  severely  in  the  1980s.  Before  shipping  can 
be  resumed  after  the  war,  the  Shatt  al  Arab  will  have  to  be  cleared 
of  explosives  and  wreckage,  which  will  take  years. 

Despite  long-standing  government  interest  in  developing  the 
Tigris  and  the  Euphrates  rivers  into  major  arteries  for  inland  trans- 
port, little  had  been  accomplished  by  the  late  1980s,  primarily 
because  of  the  massive  scale  of  such  a  project.  Dredging  and  the 
establishment  of  navigation  channels  had  been  completed  on  several 
stretches  of  the  Tigris  south  of  Baghdad,  and  in  1987  a  river  freight 
route  using  barges  was  opened  between  Baghdad  and  Al  Amarah. 
Iraq  investigated  the  possibility  of  opening  the  entire  Tigris  River 
between  Mosul  and  Baghdad,  as  well  as  the  feasibility  of  opening 
a  stretch  of  the  Euphrates  between  Al  Hadithah  and  Al  Qurnah, 
but  lack  of  funds  precluded  further  action. 

Airports 

In  1988  Iraq  had  two  international  airports,  one  at  Baghdad  and 
one  at  Basra.  In  1979  a  French  consortium  was  awarded  a  US$900 
million  contract  to  build  a  new  international  airport  at  Baghdad. 
By  1987  the  facility  was  partially  completed  and  in  use.  The  Basra 
airport  was  also  being  upgraded  with  an  extended  4,000-meter  run- 
way and  other  facilities  at  a  cost  in  excess  of  US$400  million.  A 
third  international  airport  was  planned  for  Mosul. 

The  State  Enterprise  for  Iraqi  Airways  was  the  sole  domestic 
airline  in  operation  in  1988.  The  company  was  established  in  1945 
by  Iraqi  State  Railways.  In  1987,  the  airline's  fleet  included  thirty- 
five  Soviet-built  Antonov  and  Ilyushin  cargo  planes  and  fourteen 
Boeing  passenger  jets,  as  well  as  smaller  commuter  aircraft  and 


166 


The  Economy 


VIP  jets.  The  airline  provided  service  throughout  the  Mediterra- 
nean, the  Middle  East,  and  Europe,  as  well  as  to  Brazil  and  to 
the  Far  East.  In  1987  Saddam  Husayn  announced  a  decree  to 
privatize  Iraqi  Airways.  Two  new  ventures  were  to  be  established 
instead:  the  Iraqi  Aviation  Company  to  operate  commercially  as 
the  national  airline,  and  the  National  Company  for  Aviation  Ser- 
vices to  provide  aircraft  and  airport  services.  Stock  would  be  sold 
to  the  public,  and  the  government  would  retain  a  minority  share. 

Telecommunications 

In  1988  Iraq  had  a  good  telecommunications  network  of  radio 
communication  stations,  radio  relay  links,  and  coaxial  cables.  Iraqi 
radio  and  television  stations  came  under  the  government's  Iraqi 
Broadcasting  and  Television  Establishment,  which  was  responsi- 
ble to  the  Ministry  of  Culture  and  Information.  The  domestic  ser- 
vice had  one  FM  and  nine  AM  stations  with  two  program  networks. 
The  domestic  service  broadcast  mainly  in  Arabic,  but  also  in  Kurd- 
ish, Turkoman,  and  Assyrian  from  Kirkuk.  The  short  wave  for- 
eign service  broadcast  in  Arabic,  Azeri  Turkish,  English,  French, 
German,  Hebrew,  Kurdish,  Persian,  Russian,  Spanish,  and  Urdu. 
Television  stations  were  located  in  the  major  cities,  and  they  car- 
ried two  program  networks.  In  1988  Iraq  had  approximately 
972,000  television  sets;  the  system  was  connected  to  both  the 
Atlantic  Ocean  and  Indian  Ocean  systems  of  the  International 
Telecommunications  Satellite  Organization  (INTELSAT)  as  well 
as  to  one  Soviet  Intersputnik  satellite  station.  It  also  had  coaxial 
cable  and  radio  relays  linking  it  to  Jordan,  Kuwait,  Syria,  and  Tur- 
key. Iraq  had  an  estimated  632,000  telephones  in  1988. 

Electricity 

Iraqi  electric  power  consumption  increased  by  a  factor  of  four- 
teen in  the  twenty-year  period  between  1968  and  1988,  and  in  the 
late  1980s  it  was  expected  to  double  every  four  to  five  years.  On- 
going rural  electrification  contributed  to  increased  demand;  about 
7,000  villages  throughout  the  nation  were  provided  electricity  in 
the  same  twenty-year  period.  The  destruction  in  1980  of  power- 
generating  facilities  near  the  Iran-Iraq  border  interrupted  only  tem- 
porarily the  rapid  growth  in  production  and  consumption.  In  1981 
the  government  awarded  US$2  billion  in  contracts  to  foreign  con- 
struction companies  that  were  building  hydroelectric  and  thermal 
generating  plants  as  well  as  transmission  facilities.  By  1983  the 
production  and  consumption  of  electricity  had  recovered  to  the 
prewar  levels  of  15.6  billion  kwh  (kilowatt  hours)  and  11.7  billion 
kwh,  respectively.  As  previously  commissioned  projects  continued 


167 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

to  come  onstream,  Iraq's  generating  capacity  was  expected  to  exceed 
6,000  megawatts  by  1986.  In  December  1987,  following  the  com- 
pletion of  power  lines  designed  to  carry  400  million  kwh  of  power 
to  Turkey,  Iraq  became  the  first  country  in  the  Middle  East  to 
export  electric  power.  Iraq  was  expected  to  earn  US$15  million 
annually  from  this  arrangement.  Long-range  plans  entailed  export- 
ing an  additional  3  billion  kwh  to  Turkey  and  eventually  provid- 
ing Kuwait  with  electricity. 

Iraq's  plans  to  develop  a  nuclear  generating  capacity  were  set 
back  by  Israel's  June  1981  bombing  of  the  Osiraq  (Osiris-Iraq) 
reactor,  then  under  construction  (see  The  Search  for  Nuclear  Tech- 
nology, ch.  5).  In  1988  French,  Italian,  and  Soviet  technicians  were 
exploring  the  feasibility  of  rebuilding  the  reactor  at  a  different  site. 
Saudi  Arabia  had  promised  to  provide  financing,  and  Brazil  and 
Portugal  reportedly  had  agreed  to  supply  uranium. 

Foreign  Trade 

The  pattern  of  Iraqi  foreign  trade  in  the  1980s  was  shaped  primar- 
ily by  the  Iran-Iraq  War,  its  resulting  deficit  and  debt  problems, 
and  developments  in  the  petroleum  sector.  Iranian  attacks  on 
petroleum  industry  infrastructure  reduced  oil  exports  sharply  and 
Iraq  incurred  a  trade  deficit  of  more  than  US$10  billion  in  1981. 
The  pattern  continued  in  1982  as  the  value  of  Iraqi  imports  peaked 
at  approximately  US$23.5  billion,  while  exports  reached  a  nadir 
of  US$11.6  billion,  leading  to  a  record  trade  deficit.  In  1983, 
however,  imports  were  cut  roughly  by  half.  Figures  for  Iraq's 
imports  and  exports  from  1984  onward  vary  widely  and  cannot 
be  considered  authoritative.  Despite  the  partial  recovery  of  Iraqi 
oil  exports  in  1986,  exports  were  valued  at  only  about  US$7.5  bil- 
lion because  of  the  plunge  in  world  oil  prices  (see  Oil  in  the  1980s, 
this  ch.).  In  1987  imports  were  expected  to  rise  to  about  US$10 
billion.  Export  revenues  were  also  expected  to  rise,  as  Iraq  com- 
pensated for  low  oil  prices  with  a  higher  volume  of  oil  exports  (see 
table  8,  Appendix). 

Iraq  had  counted  heavily  on  solving  its  twin  debt  and  deficit 
problems  by  reestablishing  and  eventually  by  augmenting  its  oil 
export  capacity.  But  increases  in  volume  were  insufficient  to  off- 
set lower  prices,  and  because  demand  remained  low,  expanded  oil 
exports  served  only  to  glut  the  market  and  further  drive  down  the 
price  of  oil.  The  depressed  price  of  oil  and  the  low  prices  of  other 
raw  materials  that  Iraq  exported,  coupled  with  higher  prices  for 
the  goods  it  imported,  trapped  the  nation  in  the  classic  dilemma 
of  declining  terms  of  trade.  Although  Iraq  was  cutting  the  volume 
of  its  imports  and  was  increasing  the  volume  of  its  exports,  the 


168 


The  Economy 


relative  values  of  imports  and  exports  had  shifted  fundamentally. 
More  than  95  percent  of  Iraq's  exports  were  raw  materials,  primar- 
ily petroleum.  Foodstuffs  accounted  for  most  additional  exports. 
Conversely,  nearly  half  of  Iraq's  imports  were  capital  goods  and 
consumer  durables.  According  to  Iraqi  statistics,  34.4  percent  of 
1984  imports  were  capital  goods,  30  percent  were  raw  materials, 
22.4  percent  were  foodstuffs,  and  12.5  percent  were  consumer 
items. 

Iraq's  declining  imports  resulted  not  so  much  from  belt-tightening 
or  from  import  substitution,  as  from  the  increasing  reluctance  of 
trading  partners  to  extend  credit.  Despite  its  socialist  orientation, 
Iraq  had  long  traded  most  heavily  with  Western  Europe.  Initially, 
Iraq's  debt  accumulation  worked  in  its  favor  by  creating  a  hostage 
effect.  Western  creditors,  both  governments  and  private  compa- 
nies, continued  to  supply  Iraq  in  an  effort  to  sustain  the  country 
until  it  could  repay  them.  Additionally,  the  debt  helped  to  secure 
outlets  for  Iraqi  petroleum  in  a  tight  international  market  through 
barter  agreements  in  which  oil  was  exchanged  for  a  reduction  in 
debt.  In  1987,  however,  as  some  West  European  companies  pre- 
pared to  cut  their  losses  and  to  withdraw  from  the  Iraqi  market, 
and  as  others  curtailed  sales  by  limiting  credits,  other  countries 
were  poised  to  fill  the  vacuum  by  offering  goods  and  services  on 
concessional  terms.  Companies  from  Brazil,  South  Korea,  India, 
Yugoslavia,  and  Turkey,  backed  by  their  governments'  export 
credit  guarantees,  were  winning  an  increasing  share  of  the  Iraqi 
market.  In  1987  the  Soviet  Union  and  East  European  nations  were 
also  offering  goods  and  services  on  highly  concessional  terms.  Even- 
tually, Iraq's  exports  might  also  be  diverted  from  the  West  toward 
its  new  trading  partners. 

Iraq  continued  to  seek  Western  imports  when  it  could  afford 
them.  In  1987  Iraq  was  forced  to  ration  imports  for  which  pay- 
ment was  due  in  cash,  although  nonessential  imports  were  pur- 
chased if  the  seller  offered  credit.  Imports  contributing  to  the  war 
effort  had  top  priority.  Imports  of  spare  parts  and  of  management 
services  for  the  maintenance  of  large  industrial  projects  were  also 
deemed  vital,  as  Iraq  sought  to  stave  off  the  extremely  high  costs 
it  would  incur  if  facilities  were  shut  down,  mothballed,  and  then 
reopened  in  the  future.  Consumer  goods  were  given  lowest  priority. 

In  1985  Iraq  purchased  14.4  percent  of  its  total  imports  from 
Japan.  Iraq  bought  an  array  of  Japanese  products,  ranging  from 
transport  equipment,  machinery,  and  electrical  appliances  to  basic 
materials  such  as  iron  and  steel,  textiles,  and  rubber  goods.  In  1987, 
as  Iraqi  debt  to  Japan  mounted  to  US$3  billion,  the  government 
of  Japan  curtailed  the  export  insurance  it  had  offered  Japanese 


169 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

companies  doing  business  with  Iraq;  nevertheless,  Japanese  com- 
panies continued  to  trade  with  Iraq.  Iraq  bought  9.2  percent  of 
its  imports  from  West  Germany.  Neighboring  Turkey  provided 
the  third  largest  source  of  Iraqi  imports,  accounting  for  8.2  percent 
of  the  total.  Italy  and  France  each  accounted  for  about  7.5  percent, 
followed  by  Brazil  with  7  percent  and  Britain  with  6.3  percent. 
Kuwait  was  Iraq's  most  important  Arab  trading  partner,  contribut- 
ing 4.2  percent  of  Iraq's  imports  (see  table  9,  Appendix). 

In  1985  Brazil  was  the  main  destination  of  Iraqi  exports,  account- 
ing for  17.7  percent  of  the  total.  France  was  second  with  13  percent, 
followed  by  Italy  with  11  percent,  Spain  with  10.7  percent,  Turkey 
and  Yugoslavia  with  about  8  percent  each,  Japan  with  about 
6  percent,  and  the  United  States  with  4.7  percent. 

In  April  1987,  the  government  attempted  to  streamline  the  trade 
bureaucracy  by  eliminating  five  state  trading  companies  that  dealt 
in  various  commodities.  Although  the  state  trading  companies  had 
been  established  in  the  1970s  to  foster  increased  domestic  produc- 
tion, they  had  evolved  into  importing  organizations.  In  view  of 
this  orientation,  their  operations  were  incorporated  into  the  Ministry 
of  Trade.  Three  Ministry  of  Trade  departments,  which  had  admin- 
istered trade  with  socialist,  with  African,  and  with  Arab  nations, 
were  abolished.  The  responsibilities  of  these  disbanded  organiza- 
tions were  centralized  in  a  new  Ministry  of  Trade  department 
named  the  General  Establishment  for  Import  and  Export. 

The  Ministry  of  Trade  implemented  a  national  import  policy 
by  allocating  portions  of  a  total  budget  among  imports  according 
to  priority.  The  import  budget  varied  from  year  to  year,  depend- 
ing on  export  earnings  and  on  the  amount  in  loans  that  had  been 
secured  from  foreign  creditors.  The  government's  underlying  inten- 
tion was  gradually  to  replace  imported  manufactured  products  with 
domestic  manufactured  products  and  then  to  increase  export  sales. 
In  the  mid-1980s,  however,  the  government  recognized  that 
increased  domestic  production  required  the  import  of  intermedi- 
ate goods.  In  1987  state  companies  were  permitted  for  the  first  time 
to  use  private  agents  or  middlemen  to  facilitate  limited  imports  of 
necessary  goods. 

The  private  sector,  which  had  long  been  accorded  a  quota  of 
total  imports,  was  also  deregulated  to  a  limited  extent.  In  1985  the 
quota  was  increased  to  7.5  percent  of  total  imports,  and  the  govern- 
ment gave  consideration  to  increasing  that  percentage  further.  All 
imports  by  the  private  sector  had  previously  been  subject  to  govern- 
ment licensing.  In  1985,  Law  No.  60  for  Major  Development 
Projects  exempted  the  private  sector  from  the  obligation  to  obtain 
licenses  to  import  basic  construction  materials  that  would  be  used 


170 


The  Economy 


in  major  development  projects.  In  an  attempt  to  increase  remit- 
tances from  Iraqis  abroad,  the  government  also  gave  special  import 
licenses  to  nonresident  Iraqis,  if  the  value  of  the  imports  was 
invested  in  Iraq  and  was  not  transferred  outside  the  country. 

In  1987  the  rules  concerning  private  sector  imports  were  liber- 
alized further  when  private  sector  manufacturers  were  granted  spe- 
cial licenses  that  permitted  them  to  import  raw  materials,  spare 
parts,  packaging,  machinery,  and  equipment  necessary  for  plant 
modernization  and  for  expansion.  In  some  cases  no  ceiling  was 
placed  on  such  imports,  while  in  other  cases  imports  were  limited 
to  50  percent  of  the  value  of  the  export  earnings  that  the  manufac- 
turer generated.  Such  imports  were  not  subject  to  quotas  or  to  for- 
eign exchange  restrictions.  Moreover,  the  government  announced 
that  it  would  make  no  inquiry  into  the  companies'  sources  of  financ- 
ing. In  a  remarkably  candid  statement  in  a  June  1987  speech,  Sad- 
dam Husayn  promised  that  citizens  would  not  be  asked  where  they 
had  acquired  their  money,  and  he  admitted  that  the  private  sector 
had  not  imported  any  goods  because  of  its  fear  of  prosecution  by 
the  security  services  for  foreign  exchange  violations. 

While  the  government  permitted  more  imports  by  the  private 
sector,  it  nevertheless  continued  to  promote  exports  at  the  same 
time.  Starting  in  1969  it  maintained  an  Export  Subsidy  Fund,  which 
underwrote  the  cost  of  eligible  nonpetroleum  exports  by  up  to 
25  percent.  The  Export  Subsidy  Fund  was  financed  with  a  tax  of 
.5  percent  levied  on  imports  of  capital  goods  and  .75  percent  levied 
on  imports  of  consumer  goods.  Most  imports  were  also  charged 
both  duty  and  a  customs  surcharge  that  varied  from  item  to  item. 
Export  licenses  were  granted  freely  both  to  public  and  to  private 
sector  firms  with  only  a  few  exceptions.  The  Board  of  Regulation 
of  Trade  had  the  authority  to  prohibit  the  export  of  any  commodity 
when  domestic  supplies  fell  short  of  demand,  and  the  control  over 
export  of  certain  items  was  reserved  for  the  General  Organization 
of  Exports.  The  degree  to  which  government  economic  policies 
would  be  liberalized  in  the  late  1980s  remained  to  be  seen.  The 
government  had  taken  several  steps  in  that  direction  but  state  con- 
trols continued  to  play  a  major  role  in  the  economy  in  1988. 

*    *  * 

Both  primary  and  secondary  source  information  on  the  Iraqi 
economy  tends  to  be  scant  and  dated.  The  government  of  Iraq  has 
regarded  data  on  national  economic  performance  as  a  state  secret, 
particularly  since  the  start  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War  in  1980.  The 
government  does  not  publish  a  budget,  although  it  releases 


171 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


a  yearbook,  the  Annual  Abstract  of  Statistics,  which  contains  some 
economic  figures.  The  Iran-Iraq  War  has  also  diverted  scholarly 
attention  from  economic  issues.  One  exception  is  Phebe  Marr's 
The  Modern  History  of  Iraq,  which  contains  a  chapter  titled  "Eco- 
nomic and  Social  Changes  under  the  Revolutionary  Regime."  The 
most  detailed  and  authoritative  periodic  reports  on  the  Iraqi  econ- 
omy are  produced  by  the  Wharton  Econometric  Forecasting 
Associates  in  their  semiannual  Middle  East  Economic  Outlook.  The 
Economist  Intelligence  Unit's  Country  Report:  Iraq,  a  quarterly,  con- 
tains much  useful  information  and  analysis.  Another  good  source 
of  up-to-date  information  is  the  Middle  East  Economic  Digest.  (For 
further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


172 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


Bas  relief  of  a  warrior  from  Nimrud,  ca.  end  of  the  eighth  century  B.  C. 


THE  POLITICAL  SYSTEM  in  1988  was  in  what  was  officially 
characterized  as  a  "transitional"  phase.  This  description  meant 
that  the  current  method  of  rule  by  decree,  which  had  been  in  effect 
since  1968,  would  continue  until  the  goal  of  a  socialist,  democratic 
republic  with  Islam  as  the  state  religion  was  attained.  The  end  of 
the  transition  period  was  to  be  marked  by  the  formal  enactment 
of  a  permanent  constitution.  The  timing  and  the  specific  circum- 
stances that  would  terminate  the  transitional  stage  had  not  been 
specified  as  of  early  1988. 

The  country  remained  under  the  regime  of  the  Baath  (Arab 
Socialist  Resurrection)  Party,  which  had  seized  power  through  a 
coup  d'etat  in  July  1968.  The  legality  of  government  institutions 
and  actions  was  based  on  the  Provisional  Constitution  of  July  16, 
1970,  which  embodied  the  basic  principles  of  the  Baath  Party — 
Arab  unity,  freedom,  and  socialism.  These  principles  were  in  turn 
rooted  in  the  pan- Arab  aspirations  of  the  party,  aspirations  sanc- 
tified through  identification  with  the  historic  right  and  destiny  of 
all  Arabs  to  unite  under  the  single  leadership  of  "the  Arab  Nation. ' ' 

The  most  powerful  decision-making  body  in  Iraq,  the  ten- 
member  Revolutionary  Command  Council  (RCC),  which  func- 
tioned as  the  top  executive  and  legislative  organ  of  the  state,  was 
for  all  practical  purposes  an  arm  of  the  Baath  Party.  All  members 
of  the  RCC  were  also  members  of  the  party's  Regional  Command, 
or  state  apparatus.  President  Saddam  Husayn  was  both  the  chair- 
man of  the  RCC  and  the  secretary  general  of  the  Baath' s  Region- 
al Command.  He  was  generally  recognized  as  the  most  powerful 
political  figure  in  the  country. 

From  its  earliest  days,  the  Baath  Party  was  beset  by  personality 
clashes  and  by  factional  infighting.  These  problems  were  a  primary 
cause  of  the  failure  of  the  first  Baath  attempt  to  govern  Iraq  in  1963. 
After  the  Baath  returned  to  power  in  1968,  intraparty  fissures  were 
generally  held  in  check,  albeit  not  eliminated,  by  President  Ahmad 
Hasan  al  Bakr.  When  Saddam  Husayn  succeeded  to  the  presidency 
in  1979,  he  also  commanded  the  loyalty  of  the  major  elements  of 
the  Baath. 

Saddam  Husayn  and  other  Baath  leaders  have  always  regarded 
the  ability  to  balance  endemic  intraparty  tensions — such  as  those 
between  military  and  civilian  elements  and  among  personalities 
across  boundaries  of  specialization — as  the  key  to  success  in  Bagh- 
dad. Above  all,  they  perceived  harmony  in  the  military- civilian 


175 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

coalition  as  pivotal.  Although  the  Baath  had  begun  recruiting  within 
the  Iraqi  military  as  early  as  1958,  and  within  ten  years  military 
members  constituted  the  backbone  of  the  party's  power,  civilian 
Baath  leaders  maintained  overall  control  of  the  party. 

Iraqi  politics  under  the  Baath  regime  were  generally  geared 
toward  mobilizing  support  for  the  regime.  Loyal  opposition  had 
no  place,  and  it  was  not  recognized  as  legitimate.  The  party  lead- 
ers believed  competitive  politics  ill-suited  to  Iraq,  at  least  during 
the  indefinite  transitional  period.  They  condemned  partisan  politi- 
cal activity,  which  they  insisted  had  had  damaging  consequences 
on  national  unity  and  integration.  The  Baath  also  invoked  Iraq's 
unhappy  legacy  of  ethnic  and  regional  cleavages  as  justification  for 
harsh  curbs  on  political  rights. 

In  1988,  twenty  years  after  the  Baath  had  come  to  power,  it  still 
was  not  possible  to  assess  popular  attitudes  toward  Saddam  Husayn, 
toward  the  Baath  Party,  toward  political  institutions,  or  toward 
political  issues  because  there  had  been  insufficient  field  research 
in  the  country.  Even  though  elections  for  a  National  Assembly  had 
been  held  in  1980  and  again  in  1984,  these  had  been  carefully  con- 
trolled by  the  government,  and  genuinely  free  elections  had  not 
been  held  for  more  than  thirty  years.  Politicians  or  groups  opposed 
to  the  principles  of  the  1968  Baath  Revolution  of  July  17  to  30  were 
not  permitted  to  operate  openly.  Those  who  aspired  to  be  politi- 
cally active  had  few  choices:  they  could  join  the  highly  selective 
Baath  Party,  remain  dormant,  go  underground  or  into  exile,  or 
join  the  Baath-sponsored  Progressive  National  Front  (PNF). 

The  PNF,  which  came  into  existence  in  1974,  was  based  on  a 
national  action  charter  that  called  for  collaboration  between  the 
Baath  and  each  of  the  other  parties  considered  to  be  both  progressive 
and  nationalist.  The  PNF  served  as  the  only  risk-free,  non-Baath 
forum  for  political  participation,  although  even  this  channel  was 
denied  to  those  whose  loyalties  to  the  regime  were  suspect.  The 
Baath  Party's  objectives  in  establishing  the  front  were  to  provide 
the  semblance  of  broad  popular  support  for  the  government  as  well 
as  to  provide  the  facade  of  alliance  among  the  Baath  and  other  par- 
ties. The  Baath,  however,  held  a  dominant  position  within  the  front 
and  therefore  assumed  sole  responsibility  for  carrying  out  the 
decisions  of  the  front's  executive  commission,  which  was  composed 
of  the  Baath' s  most  important  members  and  sympathizers. 

In  early  1988,  the  war  with  Iran  continued  to  preoccupy  Sad- 
dam Husayn  and  his  associates.  Approximately  75,000  Iraqis  had 
been  killed  in  the  war,  and  about  250,000  had  been  wounded;  more 
than  50,000  Iraqis  were  being  held  as  prisoners  of  war  in  Iran. 
Property  damage  was  estimated  in  the  tens  of  billions  of  dollars; 


176 


Government  and  Politics 


destruction  was  especially  severe  in  the  southern  part  of  the  coun- 
try (see  Introduction). 

Constitutional  Framework 

The  Provisional  Constitution  of  July  16,  1970,  upon  which  Iraq's 
governmental  system  was  based  in  1988,  proclaims  Iraq  to  be  "a 
sovereign  people's  democratic  republic"  dedicated  to  the  ultimate 
realization  of  a  single  Arab  state  and  to  the  establishment  of  a 
socialist  system.  Islam  is  declared  to  be  the  state  religion,  but  free- 
dom of  religion  and  of  religious  practices  is  guaranteed.  Iraq  is  said 
to  be  formed  of  two  principal  nationalities,  Arab  and  Kurd.  A 
March  1974  amendment  to  the  Constitution  provides  for  autonomy 
for  the  Kurds  in  the  region  where  they  constitute  a  majority  of  the 
population.  In  this  Autonomous  Region  (see  Glossary)  both  Arabic 
and  Kurdish  are  designated  as  official  languages  for  administra- 
tive and  educational  purposes.  The  Constitution  also  prescribes, 
however,  that  the  "national  rights"  of  the  Kurds  as  well  as  the 
"legitimate  rights"  of  all  minorities  are  to  be  exercised  only  within 
the  framework  of  Iraqi  unity,  and  the  document  stipulates  that  no 
part  of  Iraq  can  be  relinquished. 

The  Constitution  sets  forth  two  basic  aims,  the  establishment 
of  a  socialist  system  based  on  "scientific  and  revolutionary  princi- 
ples," and  pan-Arab  economic  unity.  The  state  is  given  an  active 
role  in  "planning,  directing,  and  guiding"  the  economy.  National 
resources  and  the  principal  means  of  production  are  defined  as  "the 
property  of  the  people"  to  be  exploited  by  the  state  "directly  in 
accordance  with  the  requirements  of  the  general  planning  of  the 
national  economy."  The  Constitution  describes  public  properties 
and  the  properties  of  the  public  sector  as  inviolable. 

The  Constitution  classifies  the  ownership  of  property  as  "a  social 
function  that  shall  be  exercised  within  the  limits  of  society's  aims 
and  the  state's  programs  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
law";  nevertheless,  the  Constitution  also  guarantees  private  owner- 
ship and  individual  economic  freedom  "within  the  limits  of  the 
law,  provided  that  individual  ownership  will  not  Contradict  or  be 
detrimental  to  general  economic  planning."  The  Constitution  stipu- 
lates that  private  property  may  not  be  expropriated  except  for  the 
public  interest  and  then  only  with  just  compensation.  The  size  of 
private  agricultural  land  holdings  is  to  be  defined  by  law,  and  the 
excess  is  to  be  regarded  as  the  property  of  the  people.  The  Consti- 
tution also  bars  foreign  ownership  of  real  estate,  although  individu- 
als may  be  granted  a  legal  exemption  from  this  prohibition. 

Articles  19  through  36  of  the  Constitution  spell  out  fundamen- 
tal rights  and  duties  in  detail.  The  right  to  fair  trial  through  due 


177 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


process,  the  inviolability  of  person  and  of  residence,  the  privacy 
of  correspondence,  and  the  freedom  to  travel  are  guaranteed  to 
all  citizens.  The  Constitution  also  assures  citizens  of  their  right  to 
religious  freedom:  to  the  freedom  of  speech,  of  publication,  and 
of  assembly:  and  to  the  freedom  to  form  political  parties,  trade 
unions,  and  professional  societies.  The  Constitution  directs  the  state 
to  eliminate  illiteracy  and  to  ensure  the  right  of  citizens  to  free  edu- 
cation from  elementary  school  through  the  university  level.  Accord- 
ing to  Article  28.  the  aims  of  education  include  instilling  opposition 
to  "'the  doctrines  of  capitalism,  exploitation,  reaction.  Zionism, 
and  colonialism"  in  order  to  ensure  the  achievement  of  the  Baathist 
goals  of  Arab  unity,  freedom,  and  socialism.  The  Constitution  also 
requires  the  state  to  provide  every  citizen  with  employment  and 
with  free  medical  care. 

The  Constitution  defines  the  powers  and  the  functions  of  the 
different  government  institutions.  These  include  the  RCC.  the 
National  Assembly,  the  presidency,  the  Council  of  Ministers,  or 
cabinet,  and  the  judiciary  (see  fig.  11).  According  to  Article  37. 
the  RCC  "is  the  supreme  body  in  the  State.'"  Article  43  assigns 
to  the  RCC.  by  a  vote  of  two-thirds  of  its  members,  authority  to 
promulgate  laws  and  regulations,  to  deal  with  national  security, 
to  declare  war  and  conclude  peace,  and  to  approve  the  government's 
budget.  Article  38  stipulates  that  all  newly  elected  members  of  the 
RCC  must  be  members  of  the  Baath  Party  Regional  Command. 
The  Constitution  also  provides  for  an  appointed  Council  of 
Ministers  that  has  responsibility  for  carrving  out  the  executive 
decisions  of  the  RCC. 

The  chief  executive  of  the  RCC  is  the  president,  who  serves  as 
the  commander  m  chief  of  the  armed  forces  and  as  the  head  of  both 
the  government  and  the  state.  The  powers  of  the  president, 
according  to  the  Constitution,  include  appointing,  promoting,  and 
dismissing  personnel  of  the  judiciary,  civil  service,  and  military. 
The  president  also  has  responsibility  for  preparing  and  approving 
the  budget.  The  first  president.  Ahmad  Hasan  al  Bakr.  was  in  office 
from  1968  to  1979.  when  he  resigned  and  was  succeeded  by  Sad- 
dam Husayn. 

Articles  47  through  56  of  the  Constitution  provide  for  an  elected 
National  Assembly,  but  its  powers  are  to  be  defined  by  the  RCC. 
Elections  for  the  Assembly  took  place  for  the  first  time  in  June  1980. 
Subsequent  National  assembly  elections  were  held  in  October  1984. 

The  Constitution  can  be  amended  only  by  a  two-thirds  majority 
vote  of  the  RCC.  Although  the  1970  Constitution  is  officially  desig- 
nated as  provisional,  it  is  to  remain  in  force  until  a  permanent  con- 
stitution is  promulgated. 


178 


Government  and  Politics 


Government 

The  Constitution  provides  for  a  governmental  system  that,  in 
appearance,  is  divided  into  three  mutually  checking  branches,  the 
executive,  the  legislative,  and  the  judicial.  In  practice,  neither  the 
legislature  nor  the  judiciary  has  been  independent  of  the  executive. 

The  Revolutionary  Command  Council 

In  1988  the  Revolutionary  Command  Council  (RCC)  continued 
to  be  the  top  decision-making  body  of  the  state.  The  RCC  was 
first  formed  in  July  1968,  and  since  then  it  has  exercised  both 
executive  and  legislative  powers.  The  chairman  of  the  RCC  is  the 
president  of  the  republic.  The  number  of  RCC  members  has  varied 
over  time;  in  1988  there  were  ten  members. 

According  to  the  Constitution,  the  RCC  is  the  supreme  organ 
of  the  state,  charged  with  the  mission  of  carrying  out  the  popular 
will  by  removing  from  power  the  reactionary,  the  dictatorial,  and 
the  corrupt  elements  of  society  and  by  returning  power  to  the  peo- 
ple. The  RCC  elects  its  chairman,  who  serves  concurrently  as  presi- 
dent of  the  republic,  by  a  two-thirds  majority  vote.  In  case  of  the 
chairman's  official  absence  or  incapacitation,  his  constitutional  pow- 
ers are  to  be  exercised  by  the  vice-chairman,  who  also  is  elected 
by  the  RCC  from  among  its  members.  Thus  the  vice-chairman 
(in  1988  Izzat  Ibrahim,  who  had  served  since  1979)  is  first  in  line 
of  succession. 

The  members  of  the  RCC,  including  both  the  chairman  and  the 
vice-chairman,  are  answerable  only  to  the  RCC  itself,  which  may 
dismiss  any  of  its  members  by  a  two-thirds  majority  vote  and  may 
also  charge  and  send  to  trial  for  wrongdoing  any  member  of  the 
council,  any  deputy  to  the  president,  or  any  cabinet  minister.  Since 
1977  the  Baath  Party  has  regarded  all  members  of  the  Baath  Party 
Regional  Command  as  members  of  the  RCC.  The  interlocking 
leadership  structure  of  the  RCC  and  the  Regional  Command  has 
served  to  emphasize  the  party's  dominance  in  governmental  affairs. 

The  RCC's  constitutional  powers  are  wide  ranging.  It  may 
perform  legislative  functions,  both  in  collaboration  with,  and  inde- 
pendently of,  the  National  Assembly;  approve  government  recom- 
mendations concerning  national  defense  and  internal  security; 
declare  war,  order  general  mobilization,  conclude  peace,  and  ratify 
treaties  and  international  agreements;  approve  the  state's  general 
budget;  lay  down  the  rules  for  impeachment  of  its  members  and 
set  up  the  special  court  to  try  those  impeached;  authorize  the  chair- 
man or  the  vice-chairman  to  exercise  some  of  the  council's  powers 
except  for  legislative  ones;  and  provide  the  internal  regulations  and 


179 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


i  : 

CO 

co 

O 

o 

z 

z 

Z3 

13 

O 

o 

o 

o 

tr 

DC 

< 

< 

_3 

Q- 

CL 

2 

8 


so 

3 


180 


Government  and  Politics 


working  procedures  of  the  council.  The  chairman  is  specifically 
empowered  to  preside  over  the  council's  closed  sessions,  to  sign 
all  laws  and  decrees  issued  by  the  council,  and  to  supervise  the  work 
of  cabinet  ministers  and  the  operation  of  the  institutions  of  the  state. 

The  National  Assembly 

Although  the  1970  Constitution  provides  for  a  parliament  called 
the  National  Assembly,  this  body  was  not  instituted  until  1980.  The 
RCC  first  circulated  a  draft  law  creating  the  assembly  in  December 
1979;  after  some  changes  this  was  promulgated  as  law  the  follow- 
ing March.  According  to  the  law,  the  National  Assembly  consists 
of  250  members  elected  by  secret  ballot  every  four  years.  All  Iraqi 
citizens  over  eighteen  are  eligible  to  vote  for  assembly  candidates. 
The  country  is  divided  into  250  electoral  districts,  each  with  an 
approximate  population  of  250,000.  One  representative  is  elected 
to  the  assembly  from  each  of  these  constituencies.  The  National 
Assembly  law  also  stipulates,  however,  that  there  is  to  be  a  single 
electoral  list.  Furthermore,  the  qualifications  of  all  candidates  for 
the  assembly  must  be  reviewed  and  be  approved  by  a  government- 
appointed  election  commission.  In  practice,  these  provisions  have 
enabled  the  Baath  Party  to  control  the  National  Assembly. 

To  qualify  as  a  candidate  for  National  Assembly  elections,  indi- 
viduals need  to  meet  certain  conditions.  For  example,  prospective 
candidates  must  be  at  least  twenty-five  years  of  age,  must  be  Iraqi 
by  birth,  must  not  be  married  to  foreigners,  and  must  have  Iraqi 
fathers.  Having  a  non-Iraqi  mother  is  grounds  for  disqualification 
except  in  those  cases  where  the  mother  is  of  Arab  origins  and  from 
another  Arab  country.  In  addition,  persons  who  were  subject  to 
property  expropriation  under  the  land  reform  or  nationalization 
laws  are  not  eligible  candidates.  Furthermore,  all  aspiring  candi- 
dates are  required  to  demonstrate  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  elec- 
tion commission  that  they  believe  in  the  principles  of  the  1968  Baath 
Revolution,  that  is,  in  the  Baath  Party's  objectives. 

The  first  parliamentary  elections  since  Iraq  became  a  republic 
in  1958  were  held  in  June  1980,  and  the  First  National  Assembly 
convened  at  the  end  of  that  month.  Baath  Party  candidates  won 
75  percent,  or  187,  of  the  250  seats.  The  remaining  25  percent  were 
won  by  parties  allied  with  the  Baath  and  by  independent  parties. 
Elections  for  the  Second  National  Assembly  were  held  in  October 
1984.  Approximately  7,171,000  votes  were  cast  in  that  election, 
and  the  Baath  won  73  percent  (183)  of  the  seats.  Thirty-three 
women  were  elected  to  the  assembly.  Saadun  Hammadi  was  elected 
chairman  of  the  assembly,  and  two  years  later  he  was  made  a  mem- 
ber of  the  RCC. 


181 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Since  1980  the  National  Assembly  generally  has  held  two  ses- 
sions per  year  in  accordance  with  Article  48  of  the  Constitution. 
The  first  session  is  held  in  April  and  May,  and  the  second  session 
in  November  and  December.  During  the  few  weeks  each  year  that 
the  National  Assembly  is  in  session,  it  carries  out  its  legislative  duties 
in  tandem  with  the  RCC.  The  assembly's  primary  function  is  to 
ratify  or  reject  draft  legislation  proposed  by  the  RCC.  In  addition, 
it  has  limited  authority  to  enact  laws  proposed  by  a  minimum  of 
one-fourth  of  its  membership,  to  ratify  the  government's  budget 
and  international  treaties,  and  to  debate  domestic  and  international 
policy.  It  also  has  authority  to  supervise  state  agencies  and  to  ques- 
tion cabinet  ministers.  Although  the  assembly  has  served  as  a  forum 
for  limited  public  discussion  of  issues,  its  actual  powers  were 
restricted  and  ultimate  decision-making  authority  pertaining  to 
legislation  continued  to  reside  with  the  RCC  in  1988. 

The  President  and  the  Council  of  Ministers 

The  president  is  the  chief  executive  authority  of  the  country.  He 
may  exercise  authority  directly  or  through  the  Council  of  Ministers, 
the  cabinet.  He  must  be  a  native-born  Iraqi.  The  Constitution  does 
not  stipulate  the  president's  term  of  office,  nor  does  it  provide  for 
his  successor.  President  Bakr  served  for  eleven  years  before  retir- 
ing for  health  reasons  in  1979.  He  was  succeeded  by  Saddam 
Husayn,  the  former  vice-chairman  of  the  RCC,  who  continued 
to  hold  the  office  of  president  in  early  1988. 

The  position  of  vice-chairman,  rather  than  the  office  of  vice- 
president,  appeared  to  be  the  second  most  powerful  political  one. 
The  vice-presidency  appeared  to  be  a  largely  ceremonial  post,  and 
the  vice-president  seemed  to  be  appointed  or  dismissed  solely  at 
the  discretion  of  the  president.  In  1988  the  vice-president  was  Taha 
Muhy  ad  Din  Maruf,  who  was  first  appointed  by  Bakr  in  1974, 
and  was  subsequently  kept  in  office  by  Saddam  Husayn.  The  vice- 
chairman  of  the  RCC,  who  would  presumably  succeed  Saddam 
Husayn,  was  Izzat  Ibrahim. 

The  Council  of  Ministers  is  the  presidential  executive  arm. 
Presidential  policies  are  discussed  and  translated  into  specific  pro- 
grams through  the  council.  The  council's  activities  are  closely  moni- 
tored by  the  diwan,  or  secretariat  of  the  presidency.  The  head  of 
the  diwan  is  a  cabinet-rank  official,  and  his  assistants  and  support 
staff  are  special  appointees.  The  members  of  the  diwan  are  not  sub- 
ject to  the  regulations  of  the  Public  Service  Council,  the  body  which 
supervises  all  civil  service  matters. 

Cabinet  sessions  are  convened  and  presided  over  by  the  presi- 
dent. Some  senior  members  of  the  RCC  are  represented  on  the 


182 


President  Saddam  Husayn 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Iraq,  Washington 


183 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

cabinet.  By  convention,  about  one-third  of  the  cabinet  positions 
may  be  reserved  for  members  of  the  Baath  Party.  In  early  1988, 
the  cabinet  consisted  of  forty-one  members  including  president  Sad- 
dam Husayn  and  vice-president  Maruf.  Ministerial  portfolios 
included  those  for  agriculture  and  agrarian  reform,  communica- 
tions, culture  and  arts,  defense,  education,  finance,  foreign  affairs, 
health,  higher  education  and  scientific  research,  industry  and  min- 
erals, information,  interior,  irrigation,  justice,  labor  and  social 
affairs,  oil,  planning,  public  works  and  housing,  religious  trusts, 
trade,  and  transport.  Additionally,  there  were  seven  ministers  of 
state  and  seven  presidential  advisers  with  ministerial  status.  Of  the 
cabinet  members,  the  president  and  the  minister  of  defense,  the 
minister  of  foreign  affairs,  the  minister  of  interior,  and  the  minister 
of  trade  were  also  members  of  the  powerful  RCC. 

The  Judiciary 

Although  the  Constitution  guarantees  an  independent  judiciary, 
it  contains  no  provisions  for  the  organization  of  courts.  Conse- 
quently, the  legal  system  has  been  formed  on  the  basis  of  laws 
promulgated  by  the  RCC.  In  early  1988  the  judicial  system  con- 
sisted of  courts  that  had  jurisdiction  over  civil,  criminal,  adminis- 
trative, religious  and  other  matters.  The  courts  were  under  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Ministry  of  Justice,  and  all  judges  were  appointed 
by  the  president.  The  secular  courts  continued  to  function  partly 
on  the  basis  of  the  French  model,  first  introduced  prior  to  1918 
when  Iraq  was  under  Ottoman  rule  and  subsequently  modified, 
and  partly  on  Islamic  law.  The  three  dominant  schools  of  Islamic 
jurisprudence  were  the  Hanafi  among  the  Sunni  Arabs,  the  Shafii 
among  the  Sunni  Kurds  (see  Glossary),  and  the  Jafari  among  Shia 
Arabs.  The  Christian  and  Jewish  minorities  had  their  own  reli- 
gious courts  for  the  adjudication  of  personal  status  issues,  such  as 
marriage,  divorce,  and  inheritance. 

For  judicial  administration,  the  country  was  divided  into  five 
appellate  districts  centered,  respectively,  in  Baghdad,  Basra,  Al 
Hillah  (Babylon),  Kirkuk,  and  Mosul.  Major  civil  and  commer- 
cial cases  were  referred  to  the  courts  of  first  instance,  which  were 
of  two  kinds:  18  courts  of  first  instance  with  unlimited  powers,  and 
150  courts  of  first  instance  with  limited  powers.  The  former  were 
established  in  the  capitals  of  the  eighteen  governorates  (provinces); 
the  latter,  all  of  which  were  single-judge  courts,  were  located  in 
the  district  and  subdistrict  centers,  and  in  the  governorate  capitals 
(see  fig.  1).  Six  peace  courts,  two  in  Baghdad  and  one  in  each  of 
the  other  four  judicial  district  centers,  handled  minor  litigation. 


184 


Government  and  Politics 


Decisions  of  these  courts  could  be  appealed  to  the  relevant  district 
court  of  appeals. 

Wherever  there  were  civil  courts,  criminal  cases  were  judged  by 
magistrates.  Six  sessions  courts  reviewed  cases  appealed  from  the 
lower  magistrates'  courts.  The  personal  status  of  both  Shia  Mus- 
lims and  Sunni  Muslims  and  disputes  arising  from  administration 
of  waqfs  (religious  trusts  or  endowments)  were  decided  in  sharia 
(Islamic  law)  courts.  Sharia  courts  were  located  wherever  there  were 
civil  courts.  In  some  places  sharia  courts  consisted  of  specially 
appointed  qadis  (religious  judges),  and  in  other  places  of  civil  court 
judges.  Christians,  Jews,  and  other  religious  minorities  had  their 
own  separate  communal  councils  to  administer  personal  status  laws. 

Civil  litigation  against  government  bodies  and  the  "socialist  sec- 
tor' '  and  between  government  organizations  were  brought  before 
the  Administrative  Court,  set  up  under  a  law  promulgated  in 
November  1977.  Jurisdictional  conflicts  between  this  court  and 
other  courts  were  adjudicated  by  the  Court  of  Cassation,  which 
on  appeal  could  also  review  decisions  of  the  Administrative  Court. 
Offenses  against  the  internal  or  external  security  of  the  state — 
whether  economic,  financial,  or  political  offenses — were  tried  before 
the  Revolutionary  Court.  Unlike  the  other  courts  described  above, 
the  Revolutionary  Court  was  not  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  appel- 
late court  system.  In  addition,  the  RCC  periodically  established 
special  security  courts,  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  secret  security 
police,  to  handle  cases  of  espionage,  of  treason,  and  of  "antistate" 
activities.  The  proceedings  of  the  Revolutionary  Court  and  of  the 
special  security  courts,  in  contrast  to  the  practice  of  all  other  courts, 
were  generally  closed  (see  Criminal  Justice  System,  ch.  5). 

The  court  of  last  resort  for  all  except  security  cases  was  the  Court 
of  Cassation.  It  consisted  of  a  president;  vice-presidents;  no  fewer 
than  fifteen  permanent  members;  and  a  number  of  deputized 
judges,  reporting  judges,  and  religious  judges.  It  was  divided  into 
general,  civil,  criminal,  administrative  affairs,  and  personal  sta- 
tus benches.  In  addition  to  its  appellate  function,  the  Court  of  Cas- 
sation assumed  original  jurisdiction  over  crimes  committed  by  high 
government  officials,  including  judges.  The  Court  of  Cassation  also 
adjudicated  jurisdictional  conflicts  between  lower  courts. 

Local  Government 

In  1988  there  were  eighteen  governorates  (alwiya,  sing.,  liwa), 
each  administered  by  a  governor  appointed  by  the  president.  Each 
governorate  was  divided  into  districts  (aqdhiya,  sing. ,  qadhd)  headed 
by  district  officers  (qaimaqamun;  sing.,  qaimaqam);  each  district 
was  divided  into  subdistricts  (nawahy;  sing.,  nahiyah)  under  the 


185 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

responsibility  of  subdistrict  officers  (mudara;  sing.,  mudir).  Mayors 
headed  cities  and  towns.  Municipalities  were  divided  into  several 
categories  depending  upon  the  size  of  local  revenues.  Baghdad,  the 
national  capital,  had  special  administrative  status.  The  mayor  of 
Baghdad  and  the  mayors  of  other  cities  were  presidential  appointees. 

In  1971  President  Bakr  promulgated  the  National  Action 
Charter,  a  broad  statement  of  Baath  Party  political,  economic, 
social,  and  foreign  policy  objectives.  This  document  called  for  the 
formation  of  popular  councils  in  all  administrative  subdivisions. 
These  councils  were  to  be  given  the  right  to  supervise,  to  inspect, 
and  to  criticize  the  work  of  the  government.  The  first  councils  were 
appointed  in  1973  in  accordance  with  a  law  promulgated  by  the 
RCC.  As  late  as  1988,  however,  there  was  insufficient  empirical 
research  available  to  determine  whether  the  popular  councils  were 
autonomous  forums  for  the  channeling  of  grievances  or  were  merely 
Baath  Party-dominated  institutions  used  to  encourage  active  popu- 
lar support  of,  and  involvement  in,  government-initiated  activities. 

Kurdish  Autonomy 

Three  governorates  in  the  north — Dahuk,  Irbil,  and  As  Sulay- 
maniyah — constitute  Iraqi  Kurdistan,  a  region  that  historically  has 
had  a  majority  population  of  Kurds.  Ever  since  Iraq  became 
independent  in  1932,  the  Kurds  have  demanded  some  form  of  self- 
rule  in  the  Kurdish  areas.  There  were  clashes  between  Kurdish 
antigovernment  guerrillas  and  army  units  throughout  most  of  the 
1960s.  When  the  Baath  Party  came  to  power  in  July  1968,  the  prin- 
cipal Kurdish  leaders  distrusted  its  intentions  and  soon  launched 
a  major  revolt  (see  The  Emergence  of  Saddam  Husayn,  1968-79, 
ch.  1).  In  March  1970,  the  government  and  the  Kurds  reached 
an  agreement,  to  be  implemented  within  four  years,  for  the  crea- 
tion of  an  Autonomous  Region  consisting  of  the  three  Kurdish 
governorates  and  other  adjacent  districts  that  have  been  determined 
by  census  to  have  a  Kurdish  majority.  Although  the  RCC  issued 
decrees  in  1974  and  in  1975  that  provided  for  the  administration 
of  the  Autonomous  Region,  these  were  not  acceptable  to  all  Kurd- 
ish leaders  and  a  major  war  ensued.  The  Kurds  were  eventually 
crushed,  but  guerrilla  activities  continued  in  parts  of  Kurdistan. 
In  early  1988,  antigovernment  Kurds  controlled  several  hundred 
square  kilometers  of  Irbil  and  As  Sulaymaniyah  governorates 
adjacent  to  the  Iranian  frontier. 

In  early  1988,  the  Autonomous  Region  was  governed  accord- 
ing to  the  stipulations  of  the  1970  Autonomy  Agreement.  It  had 
a  twelve-member  Executive  Council  that  wielded  both  legislative 
and  executive  powers  and  a  Legislative  Assembly  that  advised  the 


186 


Government  and  Politics 


council.  The  chairman  of  the  Executive  Council  was  appointed  by 
President  Saddam  Husayn  and  held  cabinet  rank;  the  other  mem- 
bers of  the  council  were  chosen  from  among  the  deputies  to  the 
popularly  elected  Legislative  Assembly. 

The  Legislative  Assembly  consisted  of  fifty  members  elected  for 
three-year  terms  from  among  candidates  approved  by  the  central 
government.  The  Legislative  Assembly  chose  its  own  officers,  includ- 
ing its  cabinet-rank  chairman,  a  deputy  chairman,  and  a  secretary. 
It  had  authority  to  ratify  laws  proposed  by  the  Executive  Council 
and  limited  powers  to  enact  legislation  relating  to  the  development 
of  "culture  and  nationalist  customs  of  the  Kurds"  as  well  as  other 
matters  of  stricdy  local  scope.  The  Legislative  Assembly  could  ques- 
tion the  members  of  the  Executive  Council  concerning  the  latter' s 
administrative,  economic,  educational,  social,  and  other  varied 
responsibilities;  it  could  also  withhold  a  vote  of  confidence  from  one 
or  more  of  the  Executive  Council  members.  Both  the  assembly  and 
the  council  were  located  in  the  city  of  Irbil,  the  administrative  center 
of  Irbil  Governorate.  Officials  of  these  two  bodies  were  either  Kurds 
or  "persons  well- versed  in  the  Kurdish  language,"  and  Kurdish  was 
used  for  all  official  communications  at  the  local  level.  The  first  Legis- 
lative Assembly  elections  were  held  in  September  1980,  and  the 
second  elections  took  place  in  August  1986. 

Despite  the  Autonomous  Region's  governmental  institutions, 
genuine  self-rule  did  not  exist  in  Kurdistan  in  1988.  The  central 
government  in  Baghdad  continued  to  exercise  tight  control  by 
reserving  to  itself  the  power  to  make  all  decisions  in  matters  per- 
taining to  justice,  to  police,  to  internal  security,  and  the  adminis- 
tration of  the  frontier  areas.  The  Baath  Party,  through  the  minister 
of  state  for  regional  autonomy  and  other  ministerial  representa- 
tives operating  in  the  region,  continued  to  supervise  activities  of 
all  governing  bodies  in  the  region.  The  minister  of  justice  and  a 
special  oversight  body  set  up  by  the  Court  of  Cassation  reviewed 
all  local  enactments  and  administrative  decisions,  and  they  coun- 
termanded any  local  decrees  that  were  deemed  contrary  to  the  "con- 
stitution, laws,  or  regulations"  of  the  central  government.  The 
central  government's  superior  authority  has  been  most  dramati- 
cally evident  in  the  frontier  areas,  where  government  security  units 
have  forcibly  evacuated  Kurdish  villagers  to  distant  lowlands  (see 
The  Kurds,  ch.  2). 

Politics 

The  Baath  Party 

In  early  1988,  the  Baath  Party  continued  to  stress  parallelism 


187 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

focused  on  "regional"  (qutri)  and  "national"  (qawmi)  goals,  fol- 
lowing the  Baath  doctrine  that  the  territorially  and  politically  divided 
Arab  countries  were  merely  "regions"  of  a  collective  entity  called 
"The  Arab  Nation."  Hence  the  Baath  movement  in  one  country 
was  considered  merely  an  aspect  of,  or  a  phase  leading  to,  "a  uni- 
fied democratic  socialist  Arab  nation."  That  nation,  when  it  materi- 
alized, would  be  under  a  single,  unified  Arab  national  leadership. 
Theoretically,  therefore,  success  or  failure  at  the  regional  level  would 
have  a  corresponding  effect  on  the  movement  toward  that  Arab 
nation.  Moreover,  the  critical  test  of  legitimacy  for  any  Baath  regime 
would  necessarily  be  whether  or  not  the  regime's  policies  and  actions 
were  compatible  with  the  basic  aims  of  the  revolution — aims 
epitomized  in  the  principles  of  "unity,  freedom,  and  socialism." 

The  Baath  Party  in  Iraq,  like  its  counterparts  in  other  Arab 
regions  (states),  derived  from  the  official  founding  congress  in 
Damascus  in  1947.  This  conclave  of  pan-Arab  intellectuals  was 
inspired  by  the  ideas  of  two  Syrians,  Michel  Aflaq  and  Salah  ad 
Din  al  Bitar,  who  are  generally  regarded  as  the  fathers  of  the  Baath 
movement.  Several  Iraqis,  including  Abd  ar  Rahman  ad  Damin 
and  Abd  al  Khaliq  al  Khudayri,  attended  this  congress  and  became 
members  of  the  party.  Upon  their  return  to  Baghdad,  they  formed 
the  Iraqi  branch  of  the  Baath.  Damin  became  the  first  secretary 
general  of  the  Iraqi  Baath. 

From  its  early  years,  the  Iraqi  Baath  recruited  converts  from 
a  small  number  of  college  and  high  school  students,  intellectuals, 
and  professionals — virtually  all  of  whom  were  urban  Sunni  Arabs. 
A  number  of  Baath  high  school  members  entered  the  Military  Col- 
lege, where  they  influenced  several  classmates  to  join  the  party. 
Important  military  officers  who  became  Baath  members  in  the  early 
1950s  included  Ahmad  Hasan  al  Bakr,  Salih  Mahdi  Ammash,  and 
Abd  Allah  Sultan,  all  of  whom  figured  prominently  in  Iraqi  politi- 
cal affairs  in  later  years. 

During  the  1950s,  the  Baath  was  a  clandestine  party,  and  its 
members  were  subject  to  arrest  if  their  identities  were  discovered. 
The  Baath  Party  joined  with  other  opposition  parties  to  form  the 
underground  United  National  Front  and  participated  in  the  activi- 
ties that  led  to  the  1958  revolution.  The  Baathists  hoped  that  the 
new,  republican  government  would  favor  pan- Arab  causes,  espe- 
cially a  union  with  Egypt,  but  instead  the  regime  was  dominated 
by  non-Baathist  military  officers  who  did  not  support  Arab  unity 
or  other  Baath  principles.  Some  younger  members  of  the  party, 
including  Saddam  Husayn,  became  convinced  that  Iraqi  leader  Abd 
al  Karim  Qasim  had  to  be  removed,  and  they  plotted  his  assassi- 
nation. The  October  1959  attempt  on  Qasim 's  life,  however,  was 


188 


Government  and  Politics 


bungled;  Saddam  Husayn  fled  Iraq,  while  other  party  members 
were  arrested  and  tried  for  treason.  The  Baath  was  forced  under- 
ground again,  and  it  experienced  a  period  of  internal  dissension 
as  members  debated  over  which  tactics  were  appropriate  to  achieve 
their  political  objectives.  The  party's  second  attempt  to  overthrow 
Qasim,  in  February  1963,  was  successful,  and  it  resulted  in  the 
formation  of  the  country's  first  Baath  government.  The  party, 
however,  was  more  divided  than  ever  between  ideologues  and  more 
pragmatic  members.  Because  of  this  lack  of  unity,  the  Baath' s  coup 
partners  were  able  to  outmaneuver  it  and,  within  nine  months, 
to  expel  all  Baathists  from  the  government.  It  was  not  until  1965 
that  the  Baath  overcame  the  debilitating  effects  of  ideological  and 
of  personal  rivalries.  The  party  then  reorganized  under  the  direc- 
tion of  General  Bakr  as  secretary  general  with  Saddam  Husayn 
as  his  deputy.  Both  men  were  determined  to  return  the  Baath  to 
power.  In  July  1968,  the  Baath  finally  staged  a  successful  coup. 

After  the  Baath  takeover,  Bakr  became  president  of  the  regime, 
and  he  initiated  programs  aimed  at  the  establishment  of  a  "socialist, 
unionist,  and  democratic"  Iraq.  This  was  done,  according  to  the 
National  Action  Charter,  with  scrupulous  care  for  balancing  the 
revolutionary  requirements  of  Iraq  on  the  one  hand  and  the  needs 
of  the  "Arab  nation"  on  the  other.  According  to  a  Baath  Party 
pronouncement  in  January  1974,  "Putting  the  regional  above  the 
national  may  lead  to  statism,  and  placing  the  national  over  the 
regional  may  lead  to  rash  and  childish  action."  This  protestation 
notwithstanding,  the  government's  primary  concerns  since  1968 
have  been  domestic  issues  rather  than  pan-Arab  ones. 

In  1968  the  Baath  regime  confronted  a  wide  range  of  problems, 
such  as  ethnic  and  sectarian  tensions,  the  stagnant  condition  of 
agriculture,  commerce,  and  industry,  the  inefficiency  and  the  cor- 
ruption of  government,  and  the  lack  of  political  consensus  among 
the  three  main  sociopolitical  groups — the  Shia  Arabs,  the  Sunni 
Arabs,  and  the  Kurds.  The  difficulties  of  consensus  building  were 
compounded  by  the  pervasive  apathy  and  mistrust  at  the  grass- 
roots levels  of  all  sects,  by  the  shortage  of  qualified  party  cadres 
to  serve  as  the  standard-bearers  of  the  Baath  regime,  and  by  the 
Kurdish  armed  insurgency.  Rivalry  with  Syria  and  with  Egypt  for 
influence  within  the  Arab  world  and  the  frontier  dispute  with  Iran 
also  complicated  the  regime's  efforts  to  build  the  nation. 

Since  1968  the  Baath  has  attempted  to  create  a  strong  and  uni- 
fied Iraq,  through  formal  government  channels  and  through  political 
campaigns  designed  to  eradicate  what  it  called  "harmful  prerevolu- 
tionary  values  and  practices,"  such  as  exploitation,  social  inequi- 
ties, sectarian  loyalties,  apathy,  and  lack  of  civil  spirit.  Official 


189 


190 


1  I.M 


Tahrir  Square,  Baghdad,  showing  the  Monument  of  Liberty 

Courtesy  United  Nations 


191 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

statements  called  for  abandonment  of  traditional  ways  in  favor  of 
a  new  life-style  fashioned  on  the  principles  of  patriotism,  national 
loyalty,  collectivism,  participation,  selflessness,  love  of  labor,  and 
civic  responsibility.  These  "socialist  principles  and  practices"  would 
be  instilled  by  the  party's  own  example,  through  the  state  educa- 
tional system,  and  through  youth  and  other  popular  organizations. 
The  Baath  particularly  emphasized  "military  training"  for  youth; 
such  training  was  considered  essential  for  creating  "new  men  in 
the  new  society"  and  for  defending  the  republic  from  the  hostile 
forces  of  Zionism,  imperialism,  anti-Arab  chauvinism  (e.g.,  from 
Iran),  rightists,  opportunists,  and  reactionaries  (see  Paramilitary 
Forces;  Internal  Security,  ch.  5). 

The  Baath' s  major  goal  since  1968  has  been  to  socialize  the 
economy.  By  the  late  1980s,  the  party  had  succeeded  in  socializ- 
ing a  significant  part  of  the  national  economy  (see  The  Role  of 
Government,  ch.  3),  including  agriculture,  commerce,  industry, 
and  oil.  Programs  to  collectivize  agriculture  were  reversed  in  1981, 
but  government  investment  in  industrial  production  remained 
important  in  the  late  1980s.  Large-scale  industries  such  as  iron, 
steel,  and  petrochemicals  were  fully  owned  and  managed  by  the 
government,  as  were  many  medium-sized  factories  that  manufac- 
tured textiles,  processed  food,  and  turned  out  construction 
materials. 

The  Baath' s  efforts  to  create  a  unified  Arab  nation  have  been 
more  problematic.  The  party  has  not  abandoned  its  goal  of  Arab 
unity.  This  goal,  however,  has  become  a  long-term  ideal  rather 
than  a  short-term  objective.  President  Saddam  Husayn  proclaimed 
the  new  view  in  1982  by  stating  that  Baathists  now  "believe  that 
Arab  unity  must  not  take  place  through  the  elimination  of  the  local 
and  national  characteristics  of  any  Arab  country.  .  .  .  but  must 
be  achieved  through  common  fraternal  opinion."  In  practice  this 
meant  that  the  Iraqi  Baath  Party  had  accepted  unity  of  purpose 
among  Arab  leaders,  rather  than  unification  of  Arab  countries,  as 
more  important  for  the  present. 

As  of  early  1988,  the  Baath  Party  claimed  about  10  percent  of 
the  population,  a  total  of  1.5  million  supporters  and  sympathizers; 
of  this  total,  full  party  members,  or  cadres,  were  estimated  at  only 
30,000,  or  0.2  percent.  The  cadres  were  the  nucleus  of  party  orga- 
nization, and  they  functioned  as  leaders,  motivators,  teachers, 
administrators,  and  watchdogs.  Generally,  party  recruitment  proce- 
dures emphasized  selectivity  rather  than  quantity,  and  those  who 
desired  to  join  the  party  had  to  pass  successfully  through  several 
apprentice-like  stages  before  being  accepted  into  full  membership. 
The  Baath' s  elitist  approach  derived  from  the  principle  that  the 


192 


Government  and  Politics 


party's  effectiveness  could  only  be  measured  by  its  demonstrable 
ability  to  mobilize  and  to  lead  the  people,  and  not  by  "size,  num- 
ber, or  form."  Participation  in  the  party  was  virtually  a  requisite 
for  social  mobility. 

The  basic  organizational  unit  of  the  Baath  was  the  party  cell  or 
circle  (halaqah).  Composed  of  between  three  and  seven  members, 
cells  functioned  at  the  neighborhood  or  the  village  level,  where  mem- 
bers met  to  discuss  and  to  carry  out  party  directives.  A  minimum 
of  two  and  a  maximum  of  seven  cells  formed  a  party  division  (firqah). 
Divisions  operated  in  urban  quarters,  larger  villages,  offices,  fac- 
tories, schools,  and  other  organizations.  Division  units  were  spread 
throughout  the  bureaucracy  and  the  military,  where  they  functioned 
as  the  ears  and  eyes  of  the  party.  Two  to  five  divisions  formed  a 
section  (shabah).  A  section  operated  at  the  level  of  a  large  city 
quarter,  a  town,  or  a  rural  district.  Above  the  section  was  the  branch 
(fira),  which  was  composed  of  at  least  two  sections  and  which  oper- 
ated at  the  provincial  level.  There  were  twenty-one  Baath  Party 
branches  in  Iraq,  one  in  each  of  the  eighteen  provinces  and  three 
in  Baghdad.  The  union  of  all  the  branches  formed  the  party's  con- 
gress, which  elected  the  Regional  Command. 

The  Regional  Command  was  both  the  core  of  party  leadership 
and  the  top  decision-making  body.  It  had  nine  members,  who  were 
elected  for  five-year  terms  at  regional  congresses  of  the  party.  Its 
secretary  general  (also  called  the  regional  secretary)  was  the  party's 
leader,  and  its  deputy  secretary  general  was  second  in  rank  and 
power  within  the  party  hierarchy.  The  members  of  the  command 
theoretically  were  responsible  to  the  Regional  Congress  that,  as 
a  rule,  was  to  convene  annually  to  debate  and  to  approve  the  party's 
policies  and  programs;  actually,  the  members  were  chosen  by 
Saddam  Husayn  and  other  senior  party  leaders  to  be  "elected" 
by  the  Regional  Congress,  a  formality  seen  as  essential  to  the  legiti- 
mation of  party  leadership. 

Above  the  Regional  Command  was  the  National  Command  of 
the  Baath  Party,  the  highest  policy-making  and  coordinating  council 
for  the  Baath  movement  throughout  the  Arab  world.  The  National 
Command  consisted  of  representatives  from  all  regional  commands 
and  was  responsible  to  the  National  Congress,  which  convened  peri- 
odically. It  was  vested  with  broad  powers  to  guide,  to  coordinate, 
and  to  supervise  the  general  direction  of  the  movement,  especially 
with  respect  to  relationships  among  the  regional  Baath  parties  and 
with  the  outside  world.  These  powers  were  to  be  exercised  through 
a  national  secretariat  that  would  direct  policy-formulating  bureaus. 

In  reality,  the  National  Command  did  not  oversee  the  Baath 
movement  as  a  whole  in  1988  because  there  continued  to  be  no 


193 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

single  command.  In  1966  a  major  schism  within  the  Baath  move- 
ment had  resulted  in  the  creation  of  two  rival  National  Commands, 
one  based  in  Damascus  and  the  other  in  Baghdad.  Both  commands 
claim  to  be  the  legitimate  authority  for  the  Baath,  but  since  1966 
they  have  been  mutually  antagonistic.  Michel  Aflaq,  one  of  the 
original  cofounders  of  the  Baath  Party,  was  the  secretary  general 
of  the  Baghdad-based  National  Command,  and  Saddam  Husayn 
was  the  vice-chairman.  In  practice,  the  Syrian  Regional  Command, 
under  Hafiz  al  Assad,  controlled  the  Damascus-based  National 
Command  of  the  Baath  Party,  while  the  Iraqi  Regional  Command 
controlled  the  Baghdad-based  National  Command. 

Theoretically,  the  Iraqi  Regional  Command  made  decisions 
about  Baath  Party  policy  based  on  consensus.  In  practice,  all  deci- 
sions were  made  by  the  party's  secretary  general,  Saddam  Husayn, 
who  since  1979  had  also  been  chairman  of  the  RCC  and  president 
of  the  republic.  He  worked  closely  with  a  small  group  of  support- 
ers, especially  members  of  the  Talfah  family  from  the  town  of  Tikrit 
(see  The  Emergence  of  Saddam  Husayn,  1968-79,  ch.  1);  he  also 
dealt  ruthlessly  with  suspected  opposition  to  his  rule  from  within 
the  party.  In  1979  several  high-ranking  Baathists  were  tried  and 
were  executed  for  allegedly  planning  a  coup;  other  prominent  party 
members  were  forcibly  retired  in  1982.  Saddam  Husayn' s  detrac- 
tors accused  him  of  monopolizing  power  and  of  promoting  a  cult 
of  personality. 

The  Politics  of  Alliance:  The  Progressive  National  Front 

In  1988  Iraq  was  no  nearer  to  the  goal  of  democracy  than  it  had 
been  when  the  Baath  came  to  power  in  1968.  The  establishment 
of  "popular  democracy"  as  a  national  objective  remained  essen- 
tially unfulfilled.  Political  activities  were  restricted  to  those  defined 
by  the  Baath  regime.  The  party,  however,  recognized  that  not  all 
citizens  would  become  party  members,  and  it  sought  to  provide 
a  controlled  forum  for  non-Baathist  political  participation.  It  created 
the  Progressive  National  Front  (PNF)  in  1974  to  ally  the  Baath 
with  other  political  parties  that  were  considered  to  be  progressive. 
As  a  basis  for  this  cooperation  President  Bakr  had  proclaimed  the 
National  Action  Charter  in  1971 .  In  presenting  the  charter  for  pub- 
lic discussion,  the  Baath  had  invited  "all  national  and  progressive 
forces  and  elements"  to  work  for  the  objective  of  a  "democratic, 
revolutionary,  and  unitary"  Iraq  by  participating  in  the  "broadest 
coalition  among  all  the  national,  patriotic,  and  progressive  forces." 

The  Iraqi  Communist  Party  (ICP)  was  one  of  the  important 
political  groups  that  the  Baathists  wanted  involved  in  the  PNF.  Dis- 
cussions between  the  Baath  and  the  ICP  took  place  periodically 


194 


Government  and  Politics 


over  three  years  before  the  latter  was  induced  to  join  the  PNF  in 
1974.  For  Baath  leaders,  the  PNF  was  a  means  of  containing  poten- 
tial opposition  to  their  policies  on  the  part  of  the  ICP.  Although 
the  ICP  was  too  small  to  pose  a  serious  armed  challenge  to  the 
Baath,  it  was  regarded  as  a  major  ideological  rival.  The  ICP's  roots 
were  as  deep  as  those  of  the  Baath,  because  the  former  party  had 
been  formed  by  Iraqi  Marxists  in  the  1930s.  Like  the  Baath,  the 
ICP  was  an  elitist  party  that  advocated  socialist  programs  to  benefit 
the  masses  and  that  appealed  primarily  to  intellectuals.  Despite  these 
similarities,  there  had  been  a  long  history  of  antagonism  between 
the  two  parties.  Baathists  tended  to  suspect  the  communists  of  ulti- 
mate loyalty  to  a  foreign  power,  the  Soviet  Union,  rather  than  to 
the  Arab  nation,  even  though  the  Baathists  themselves  regarded 
the  Soviet  Union  as  a  friendly  and  progressive  state  after  1968. 

In  return  for  participation  in  the  PNF,  the  ICP  was  permitted 
to  nominate  its  own  members  for  some  minor  cabinet  posts  and 
to  carry  on  political  and  propaganda  activities  openly.  The  ICP 
had  to  agree,  however,  not  to  recruit  among  the  armed  forces  and 
to  accept  Baath  domination  of  the  RCC.  The  ICP  also  recognized 
the  Baath  Party's  "privileged"  or  leading  role  in  the  PNF:  of  the 
sixteen-member  High  Council  that  was  formed  to  direct  the  PNF, 
eight  positions  were  reserved  for  the  Baath,  five  for  other  progres- 
sive parties,  and  only  three  for  the  communists.  The  ICP  also  agreed 
not  to  undertake  any  activities  that  would  contravene  the  letter  or 
spirit  of  the  National  Action  Charter. 

The  ICP  may  have  hoped  that  the  PNF  would  gradually  evolve 
into  a  genuine  power- sharing  arrangement.  If  so,  these  expecta- 
tions were  not  realized.  The  Baath  members  of  the  High  Council 
dominated  the  PNF,  while  the  party  retained  a  firm  grip  over 
government  decision  making.  By  1975,  friction  had  developed 
between  the  ICP  and  the  Baath.  During  the  next  two  years,  at  least 
twenty  individual  ICP  members  were  arrested,  tried,  and  sentenced 
to  prison  for  allegedly  attempting  to  organize  communist  cells  within 
the  army  in  contravention  of  the  specific  ban  on  such  activities. 
The  April  1978  Marxist  coup  d'etat  in  Afghanistan  seemed  to  serve 
as  a  catalyst  for  a  wholesale  assault  on  the  ICP.  Convicted  com- 
munists were  retried,  and  twenty-one  of  them  were  executed;  there 
were  virulent  attacks  on  the  ICP  in  the  Baathist  press;  and  scores 
of  party  members  and  sympathizers  were  arrested.  The  ICP  com- 
plained, to  no  apparent  avail,  that  communists  were  being  purged 
from  government  jobs,  arrested,  and  tortured  in  prisons.  By  April 
1979,  those  principal  ICP  leaders  who  had  not  been  arrested  had 
either  fled  the  country  or  had  gone  underground.  In  1980  the  ICP 
formally  withdrew  from  the  PNF  and  announced  the  formation 


195 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

of  a  new  political  front  to  oppose  the  Baath  government.  Since  then, 
however,  ICP  activities  against  the  Baathists  have  been  largely 
limited  to  a  propaganda  campaign. 

The  various  Kurdish  political  parties  were  the  other  main  focus 
of  Baath  attention  for  PNF  membership.  Three  seats  on  the  PNF 
were  reserved  for  the  Kurds,  and  initially  the  Baath  intended  that 
these  be  filled  by  nominees  from  the  Kurdish  Democratic  Party 
(KDP),  the  oldest  and  largest  Kurdish  party.  By  the  time  the  PNF 
was  established  in  1974,  however,  the  KDP  was  already  involved 
in  hostilities  against  the  government.  The  KDP,  which  originally 
had  been  formed  in  1946  in  Iran  where  Mullah  Mustafa  Barzani 
and  other  party  cofounders  had  fled  following  the  collapse  of  a  1945 
revolt,  was  suspicious  of  the  Baath' s  ultimate  intentions  with  respect 
to  self-rule  for  the  Kurdish  region.  Even  though  Barzani  himself 
had  negotiated  the  March  1970  Autonomy  Agreement  with  Sad- 
dam Husayn,  he  rejected  Baghdad's  March  1974  terms  for  imple- 
menting autonomy.  Subsequently,  full-scale  warfare  erupted 
between  central  government  forces  and  KDP-organized  fighters, 
the  latter  receiving  military  supplies  covertly  from  Iran  and  from 
the  United  States.  The  Kurdish  rebellion  collapsed  in  March  1975, 
after  Iran  reached  a  rapprochement  with  the  Baath  regime  and  with- 
drew all  support  from  the  Kurds.  The  KDP  leaders  and  several 
thousand  fighters  sought  and  obtained  refuge  in  Iran.  Barzani  even- 
tually resettled  in  the  United  States,  where  he  died  in  1979.  Fol- 
lowing Barzani 's  death,  his  son  Masud  became  leader  of  the  KDP; 
from  his  base  in  Iran  he  directed  a  campaign  of  guerrilla  activities 
against  Iraqi  civilian  and  military  personnel  in  the  Kurdish  region. 
After  Iraq  became  involved  in  war  with  Iran,  Masud  Barzani  gener- 
ally cooperated  with  the  Iranians  in  military  offensives  in  Iraqi 
Kurdistan  (see  Internal  Developments  and  Security,  ch.  5). 

Barzani 's  decision  to  fight  Baghdad  was  not  supported  by  all 
Kurdish  leaders,  and  it  led  to  a  split  within  the  KDP.  Some  of  these 
Kurds,  including  Barzani's  eldest  son,  Ubaydallah,  believed  that 
the  Autonomy  Agreement  did  provide  a  framework  for  achieving 
practical  results,  and  he  preferred  to  cooperate  with  the  Baath. 
Other  leaders  were  disturbed  by  Barzani's  acceptance  of  aid  from 
Iran,  Israel,  and  the  United  States,  and  they  refused  to  be  associated 
with  this  policy.  Consequently,  during  1974,  rival  KDP  factions, 
and  even  new  parties  such  as  the  Kurdish  Revolutionary  Party  and 
the  Kurdish  Progressive  Group,  emerged.  Although  none  of  these 
parties  seemed  to  have  as  extensive  a  base  of  popular  support  as 
did  the  KDP,  their  participation  in  the  PNF  permitted  the  Baath 
to  claim  that  its  policies  in  the  Autonomous  Region  had  the  back- 
ing of  progressive  Kurdish  forces. 


196 


Government  and  Politics 


The  unanticipated  and  swift  termination  of  KDP-central  govern- 
ment hostilities  in  March  1975  resulted  in  more  factional  splits  from 
the  party.  One  breakaway  group,  the  Patriotic  Union  of  Kurdistan 
(PUK)  under  the  leadership  of  Jalal  Talabani,  was  committed  to 
continuing  the  armed  struggle  for  Kurdish  autonomy.  Until  1985, 
however,  most  of  the  PUK's  skirmishes  were  with  fellow  Kurdish 
fighters  of  the  KDP,  and  Talabani  himself  held  intermittent  negotia- 
tions with  Baathist  representatives  about  joining  the  PNF.  Other 
KDP  splinter  groups  agreed  to  cooperate  with  the  central  govern- 
ment. In  order  to  accommodate  them,  and  in  recognition  of  the 
fact  that  no  single  political  party  represented  the  Kurds,  two  addi- 
tional seats,  bringing  the  total  to  eighteen,  were  created  in  the  PNF. 
Thus,  the  number  of  Kurdish  representatives  increased  from  three 
to  five.  The  composition  of  the  PNF  changed  again  in  1980,  fol- 
lowing the  withdrawal  of  the  three  ICP  members;  the  number  of 
Kurds  remained  constant. 

In  1975  the  Baath  invited  two  independent  progressive  groups 
to  nominate  one  representative  each  for  the  unreserved  seats  on 
the  PNF.  These  seats  went  to  the  leaders  of  the  Independent 
Democrats  and  the  Progressive  Nationalists.  Neither  of  these  groups 
was  a  formally  organized  political  party,  but  rather  each  was  an 
informal  association  of  non-Baathist  politicians  who  had  been  active 
before  1968.  These  groups  had  demonstrated  to  the  satisfaction 
of  the  Baath  Party  that  their  members  had  renounced  the  former 
"reactionary"  ideas  of  the  various  prerevolutionary  parties  to  which 
they  had  belonged. 

In  1988  the  Baath  Party  continued  to  hold  the  position  that  the 
PNF  was  indispensable  as  long  as  the  Arab  revolutionary  move- 
ment faced  dangers  in  Iraq  and  in  other  parts  of  the  Arab  homeland. 
The  Baath  insisted  that  its  policy  of  combining  its  "leading  role" 
within  the  front  and  a  cooperative  relationship  based  on  "mutual 
respect  and  confidence"  among  itself  and  the  front's  members  was 
correct  and  that,  in  fact,  this  was  a  major  accomplishment  of  its 
rule.  Nevertheless,  the  PNF  was  not  an  independent  political  insti- 
tution. Although  it  served  as  a  forum  in  which  policy  could  be  dis- 
cussed, the  Baath  actually  controlled  the  PNF  by  monopolizing 
executive  positions,  by  holding  half  of  the  total  seats,  and  by  requir- 
ing that  all  PNF  decisions  must  be  by  unanimous  vote. 

Political  Opposition 

Although  the  Baath  in  1988  permitted  the  existence  of  several 
non-Baathist  political  parties,  it  did  not  tolerate  political  opposi- 
tion to  its  policies.  An  effective  security  police  apparatus  had 
forced  underground  those  groups  opposed  to  the  Baath  (see  Internal 


197 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Security,  ch.  5).  Other  opposition  groups  operated  in  exile  in 
Europe.  Iran,  and  Syria.  These  included  the  ICP.  the  KDP.  the 
PUK,  a  Baath  splinter  that  supported  the  Damascus-based  National 
Command,  and  several  Islamic  parties.  Although  various  opposi- 
tion parties  periodically  succeeded  in  carrying  out  acts  of  violence 
against  regime  targets,  especially  in  Kurdistan,  for  the  most  part 
their  activities  within  Iraq  did  not  seriously  challenge  the  Baath 
regime. 

The  opposition  to  the  Baath  historically  has  been  fragmented, 
and  efforts  to  form  alliances — such  as  the  ICP's  November  1980 
initiative  to  create  a  Democratic  and  Patriotic  Front  of  Kurdish 
and  Arab  secular  parties — foundered  over  ideological  divisions.  Per- 
sonality clashes  and  feuds  also  prevented  the  various  Kurdish  and 
Arab  secular  parties  from  cooperating.  In  addition,  many  of  the 
opposition  parties  seemed  to  have  a  weak  internal  base  of  popular 
support  because  of  the  prevailing  perception  that  they  had  collabo- 
rated with  enemies  of  Iraq  at  a  time  when  the  countrv  was  engaged 
in  war  with  Iran. 

The  religious  opposition  to  the  Baath  was  primarily  concentrated 
among  the  devout  Shia  population.  The  most  important  opposi- 
tion party  was  Ad  Dawah  al  Islamiyah  (the  Islamic  Call),  popu- 
larly known  as  Ad  Dawah,  which  originally  had  been  established 
by  Shia  clergy  in  the  early  1960s.  After  the  Baath  came  to  power 
in  1968,  Ad  Dawah  opposed  the  regime's  secular  policies,  and 
consequently  many  prominent  clergy  associated  with  the  party,  as 
well  as  some  who  had  no  connections  to  Ad  Dawah,  were  per- 
secuted. In  1979.  apparently  to  contain  any  radicalization  of  the 
Iraqi  Shia  clergy  like  that  which  had  occurred  in  Iran,  the  regime 
arrested  and  subsequently  executed  Ayatollah  Sayyid  Muhammad 
Baqir  as  Sadr.  the  country's  most  respected  Shia  leader.  Sadr"s 
precise  relationship  to  Ad  Dawah  w7as  not  established,  but  his  death 
precipitated  widespread,  violent  demonstrations  and  acts  of 
sabotage.  Ad  Dawah  was  banned  in  1980.  and  membership  in  the 
organization  was  made  a  capital  offense.  After  the  war  with  Iran 
had  begun.  Ad  Dawah  and  other  Shia  political  groups  reorganized 
in  exile  in  Europe  and  in  Iran. 

In  late  1982,  the  Iranian  authorities  encouraged  the  Iraqi  Shia 
parties  to  unite  under  one  umbrella  group  known  as  the  Supreme 
Assembly  for  the  Islamic  Revolution  in  Iraq  (SAIRI  i.  Headquar- 
tered in  Tehran,  SAIRI  was  under  the  chairmanship  of  Muham- 
mad Baqir  al  Hakim,  a  prominent  clergyman  whose  father  had 
been  the  leading  ayatollah  of  Iraq  in  the  1960s.  SAIRI' s  aim  was 
to  promote  the  cause  of  Islamic  revolution  in  Iraq  by  overthrow- 
ing the  Baathist  regime.  To  further  that  objective,  in  1983  SAIRI 


198 


Government  and  Politics 


established  a  government-in-exile.  SAIRI's  activities  brought  harsh 
reprisals  against  members  of  the  extended  Hakim  family  still  liv- 
ing in  Iraq  but  were  generally  ineffective  in  undermining  the  politi- 
cal controls  of  the  Baath.  Another  opposition  element  included  in 
SAIRI  was  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Action,  headed  by  Iraqi- 
born  Muhammad  Taqi  al  Mudarrissi. 

Mass  Media 

In  early  1988,  all  radio  and  television  broadcasting  in  Iraq  was 
controlled  by  the  government.  Radio  Iraq  had  both  domestic  and 
foreign  services.  The  domestic  service  broadcast  in  Arabic,  Kurd- 
ish, Syriac,  and  Turkoman;  the  foreign  service,  in  English,  French, 
German,  Russian,  Swahili,  Turkish,  and  Urdu.  Two  radio  sta- 
tions based  in  Baghdad  broadcast  all  day,  and  they  could  be  picked 
up  by  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  estimated  2.5  million  radio 
receivers  in  the  country.  There  were  also  separate  radio  stations 
with  programs  in  Kurdish  and  Persian. 

Baghdad  Television  was  the  main  government  television  station. 
It  broadcast  over  two  channels  throughout  the  day.  Government- 
owned  commercial  television  stations  also  broadcast  from  Basra, 
Kirkuk,  Mosul,  and  nineteen  other  locations  for  an  average  of  six 
hours  a  day.  A  Kurdish-language  television  station  aired  programs 
for  eight  hours  each  day.  There  were  an  estimated  750,000  pri- 
vately owned  television  sets  in  the  country  in  1986,  the  latest  year 
for  which  such  statistics  were  available. 

In  1988  there  were  six  national  daily  newspapers,  all  of  which 
were  published  in  Baghdad.  One  of  these  papers,  the  Baghdad 
Observer,  was  published  in  English;  it  had  an  estimated  circulation 
of  220,000.  Another  daily,  Al  Iraq,  with  a  circulation  of  abut  30,000, 
was  published  in  Kurdish.  The  largest  of  the  four  Arabic-language 
dailies  was  Al  Jumhuriya,  which  had  a  circulation  of  approximately 
220,000.  Ath  Thawra,  with  a  circulation  of  about  22,000,  was  the 
official  organ  of  the  Baath  Party.  There  were  also  seven  weekly 
papers,  all  published  in  Baghdad.  The  government's  Iraqi  News 
Agency  (INA)  distributed  news  to  the  foreign  press  based  in,  or 
passing  through,  Iraq. 

Although  Article  26  of  the  Provisional  Constitution  guarantees 
freedom  of  opinion  and  publication  "within  the  limits  of  the  law," 
newspapers,  books,  and  other  publications  were  subject  to  censor- 
ship. The  Ministry  of  Guidance  monitored  published  material  to 
ensure  that  all  writing  was  "in  line  with  the  nationalist  and  pro- 
gressive line  of  the  revolution."  The  Ministry  of  Culture  and 
Information's  National  House  for  Publishing  and  Distributing 


199 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Advertising  had  the  sole  authority  to  import  and  to  distribute  all 
foreign  newspapers,  magazines,  and  periodicals. 

Foreign  Policy 

Iraq's  relations  with  other  countries  and  with  international  orga- 
nizations are  supervised  by  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs.  In  1988 
the  minister  of  foreign  affairs  was  Tariq  Aziz,  who  had  served  in 
that  post  since  1983.  Aziz  was  a  member  of  the  RCC  and  an 
influential  leader  of  the  Baath  Party.  Before  becoming  minister  of 
foreign  affairs,  he  had  been  director  of  the  party's  foreign  affairs 
bureau.  Aziz,  Saddam  Husayn,  and  the  other  members  of  the  RCC 
formulated  foreign  policy,  and  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs 
bureaucracy  implemented  RCC  directives.  The  Baath  maintained 
control  over  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  and  over  all  Iraqi  diplo- 
matic missions  outside  the  country  through  its  party  cells  that  oper- 
ated throughout  the  ministry  and  in  all  embassies  abroad. 

In  1988  Iraq's  main  foreign  policy  issue  was  the  war  with  Iran. 
This  war  had  begun  in  September  1980,  when  Saddam  Husayn 
sent  Iraqi  forces  across  the  Shatt  al  Arab  into  southwestern  Iran 
(see  Iran-Iraq  Conflict,  ch.  1).  Although  the  reasons  for  Saddam 
Husayn 's  decision  to  invade  Iran  were  complicated,  the  leaders 
of  the  Baath  Party  had  long  resented  Iranian  hegemony  in  the  Per- 
sian Gulf  region  and  had  especially  resented  the  perceived  Iranian 
interference  in  Iraq's  internal  affairs  both  before  and  after  the  1979 
Islamic  Revolution.  They  may  have  thought  that  the  revolution- 
ary turmoil  in  Tehran  would  enable  Iraq  to  achieve  a  quick  victory. 
Their  objectives  were  to  halt  any  potential  foreign  assistance  to  the 
Shias  and  to  the  Kurdish  opponents  of  the  regime  and  to  end  Ira- 
nian domination  of  the  area.  The  Baathists  believed  a  weakened 
Iran  would  be  incapable  of  posing  a  security  threat  and  could  not 
undermine  Iraq's  efforts  to  exercise  the  regional  influence  that  had 
been  blocked  by  non-Arab  Iran  since  the  mid-1960s.  Although  the 
Iraqis  failed  to  obtain  the  expected  easy  victory,  the  war  initially 
went  well  for  them.  By  early  1982,  however,  the  Iraqi  occupation 
forces  were  on  the  defensive  and  were  being  forced  to  retreat  from 
some  of  their  forward  lines.  In  June  1982,  Saddam  Husayn  ordered 
most  of  the  Iraqi  units  to  withdraw  from  Iranian  territory;  after 
that  time,  the  Baathist  government  tried  to  obtain  a  cease-fire  based 
on  a  return  of  all  armed  personnel  to  the  international  borders  that 
prevailed  as  of  September  21,  1979. 

Iran  did  not  accept  Iraq's  offer  to  negotiate  an  end  to  the  war. 
Similarly,  it  rejected  a  July  1982  United  Nations  (UN)  Security 
Council  resolution  calling  for  an  immediate  cease-fire.  Subse- 
quently, Iranian  forces  invaded  Iraq  by  crossing  the  Shatt  al  Arab 


200 


Khalafa  Street,  Baghdad 
Courtesy  Ronald  L.  Kuipers 


Rashid  Hotel,  Baghdad 
Courtesy  Ronald  L.  Kuipers 


201 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

in  the  south  and  by  capturing  some  mountain  passes  in  the  north. 
To  discourage  Iran's  offensive,  the  Iraqi  air  force  initiated  bomb- 
ing raids  over  several  Iranian  cities  and  towns.  The  air  raids  brought 
Iranian  retaliation,  which  included  the  aerial  bombing  of  Bagh- 
dad. Although  Iraq  eventually  pushed  back  and  contained  the  Ira- 
nian advances,  it  was  not  able  to  force  Iranian  troops  completely 
out  of  Iraqi  territory.  The  perceived  threat  to  Iraq  in  the  summer 
of  1982  thus  was  serious  enough  to  force  Saddam  Husayn  to  request 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  to  change  the  venue  of  its  scheduled 
September  meeting  from  Baghdad  to  India;  nevertheless,  since  the 
fall  of  1982,  the  ground  conflict  had  generally  been  a  stalemated 
war  of  attrition — although  Iran  made  small  but  demoralizing  ter- 
ritorial advances  as  a  result  of  its  massive  offensives  in  the  reed 
marshes  north  of  Basra  in  1984  and  in  1985,  in  Al  Faw  Peninsula 
in  early  1986,  and  in  the  outskirts  of  Basra  during  January  and 
February  1987.  In  addition,  as  of  early  1988  the  government  had 
lost  control  of  several  mountainous  districts  in  Kurdistan  where, 
since  1983,  dissident  Kurds  have  cooperated  militarily  with  Iran. 

Saddam  Husayn' s  government  has  maintained  consistently  since 
the  summer  of  1982  that  Iraq  wants  a  negotiated  end  to  the  war 
based  upon  the  status  quo  ante.  Iran's  stated  conditions  for  ceas- 
ing hostilities,  namely  the  removal  of  Saddam  Husayn  and  the 
Baath  from  power,  however,  have  been  unacceptable.  The  main 
objective  of  the  regime  became  the  extrication  of  the  country  from 
the  war  with  as  little  additional  damage  as  possible.  To  further  this 
goal,  Iraq  has  used  various  diplomatic,  economic,  and  military 
strategies;  none  of  these  had  been  successful  in  bringing  about  a 
cease-fire  as  of  early  1988  (see  Introduction). 

Although  the  war  was  a  heavy  burden  on  Iraq  politically,  eco- 
nomically, and  socially,  the  most  profound  consequence  of  the  war's 
prolongation  was  its  impact  on  the  patterns  of  Iraq's  foreign  rela- 
tions. Whereas  trends  toward  a  moderation  of  the  Baath  Party's 
ideological  approach  to  foreign  affairs  were  evident  before  1980, 
the  war  helped  to  accelerate  these  trends.  Two  of  the  most  dra- 
matic changes  were  in  Iraq's  relationships  with  the  Soviet  Union 
and  with  the  United  States.  During  the  course  of  the  war  Iraq 
moved  away  from  the  close  friendship  with  the  Soviet  Union  that 
had  persisted  throughout  the  1970s,  and  it  initiated  a  rapproche- 
ment with  the  United  States.  Iraq  also  sought  to  ally  itself  with 
Kuwait  and  with  Saudi  Arabia,  two  neighboring  countries  with 
which  there  had  been  considerable  friction  during  much  of  the 
1970s.  The  alignment  with  these  countries  was  accompanied  by 
a  more  moderate  Iraqi  approach  to  other  Arab  countries,  such  as 
Egypt  and  Jordan,  which  previously  Iraq  had  perceived  as  hostile. 


202 


Government  and  Politics 


The  Soviet  Union 

When  the  Baath  Party  came  to  power  in  1968,  relations  between 
Iraq  and  the  West  were  strained.  The  Baathists  believed  that  most 
Western  countries,  and  particularly  the  United  States,  opposed  the 
goal  of  Arab  unity.  The  Baathists  viewed  the  1948  partition  of  Pales- 
tine and  the  creation  of  Israel  as  evidence  of  an  imperialist  plot 
to  keep  the  Arabs  divided.  Refusal  to  recognize  Israel  and  support 
for  the  reestablishment  of  Palestine  consequently  became  central 
tenets  of  Baath  ideology.  The  party  based  Iraq's  relations  with  other 
countries  on  those  countries'  attitudes  toward  the  Palestinian  issue. 
The  Soviet  Union,  which  had  supported  the  Arabs  during  the  June 
1967  Arab-Israeli  War  and  again  during  the  October  1973  Arab- 
Israeli  War,  was  regarded  as  having  an  acceptable  position  on  the 
Palestine  issue.  Thus,  the  Baath  cultivated  relations  with  Moscow 
to  counter  the  perceived  hostility  of  the  United  States. 

In  1972  the  Baathist  regime  signed  a  Treaty  of  Friendship  and 
Cooperation  with  the  Soviet  Union.  Article  1  stated  that  the  treaty's 
objective  was  to  develop  broad  cooperation  between  Iraq  and  the 
Soviet  Union  in  economic,  trade,  scientific,  technical,  and  other 
fields  on  the  basis  of  "respect  for  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity 
and  non-interference  in  one  another's  internal  affairs."  Under  the 
treaty,  Iraq  obtained  extensive  technical  assistance  and  military 
equipment  from  the  Soviet  Union. 

Despite  the  importance  that  both  the  Bakr  and  the  Saddam 
Husayn  governments  attached  to  the  relationship  with  the  Soviet 
Union,  they  were  reluctant  to  have  Iraq  become  too  closely  entan- 
gled with  the  Soviet  Union  or  with  its  sphere  of  influence.  Ideo- 
logically, the  Baath  Party  espoused  nonalignment  vis-a-vis  the 
superpower  rivalry,  and  the  party  perceived  Iraq  as  being  part  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement.  Indeed,  as  early  as  1974,  the  more 
pragmatic  elements  in  the  party  advocated  broadening  relations 
with  the  West  to  counterbalance  those  with  the  East  and  to  ensure 
that  Iraq  maintained  a  genuine  nonaligned  status.  The  dramatic 
increase  in  oil  revenues  following  the  December  1973  quadrupling 
of  prices  by  the  Organization  of  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries 
(OPEC)  provided  the  government  with  the  financial  resources  to 
expand  economic  relations  with  numerous  private  and  public  enter- 
prises in  Western  Europe,  Japan,  and  the  United  States.  Iraq  also 
was  able  to  diversify  its  source  of  weapons  by  purchasing  arms  from 
France. 

The  major  impetus  for  Iraq's  retreat  from  its  close  relationship 
with  the  Soviet  Union  was  not  economic,  despite  Iraq's  increas- 
ing commercial  ties  with  the  West,  but  political.  Iraqis  were  shocked 


203 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

by  the  December  1979  Soviet  invasion  of  Afghanistan,  and  Sad- 
dam Husayn's  government  took  a  lead  among  the  Arab  states  in 
condemning  the  invasion.  Additional  strain  was  placed  on  Iraqi- 
Soviet  relations  in  the  fall  of  1980,  when  the  Soviet  Union  cut  off 
arms  shipments  to  Iraq  (and  to  Iran)  as  part  of  its  efforts  to  induce 
a  cease-fire.  This  action  angered  Saddam  Husayn  and  his  col- 
leagues, because  Iraq  had  already  paid  more  than  US$1  billion 
dollars  for  the  interdicted  weapons.  Although  Moscow  resumed 
arms  supplies  to  Iraq  in  the  summer  of  1982,  following  the  Iranian 
advance  into  Iraqi  territory,  Iraqi  leaders  remained  bitter  over  the 
initial  halt. 

Despite  Iraq's  apparent  ambivalence  about  its  relationship  with 
the  Soviet  Union,  in  early  1988  relations  remained  correct.  The 
Soviets  were  still  the  main  source  of  weapons  for  the  Iraqi  mili- 
tary, a  fact  that  restrained  public  criticism.  Nevertheless,  the  Sad- 
dam Husayn  government  generally  suspected  that  the  Soviet  Union 
was  more  interested  in  gaining  influence  in  Iran  than  in  preserv- 
ing its  friendship  with  Iraq.  Consequently,  Iraqi  leaders  were  skep- 
tical of  Soviet  declarations  that  Moscow  was  trying  to  persuade 
Iran  to  agree  to  a  cease-fire.  They  expressed  disappointment  in 
late  1987  that  the  Soviet  Union  had  not  exerted  sufficient  pressure 
upon  Iran  to  force  it  to  cooperate  with  the  UN  Security  Council 
cease-fire  resolution  of  July  1987. 

The  West 

Iraq's  disappointment  in  its  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union 
gradually  led  to  a  tilt  toward  the  West.  This  process  began  as  early 
as  1974  when  prominent  Baathists  such  as  Bakr,  Saddam  Husayn, 
and  Aziz  expressed  the  need  for  a  more  pragmatic,  less  ideologi- 
cal approach  to  relations  with  "the  Western  capitalist  world."  For 
example,  the  government  stated  in  January  1974  that  the  West  was 
not  composed  "totally  of  enemies  and  imperialists,"  that  some 
countries  were  relatively  moderate,  and  that  there  were  contradic- 
tions among  the  principal  Western  nations.  These  views  became 
the  basis  on  which  the  regime  established  generally  cordial  rela- 
tions with  Britain,  Italy,  France,  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany 
(West  Germany),  and  Japan. 

Iraq's  closest  ties  were  with  France,  which  came  to  rank  second 
to  the  Soviet  Union  as  a  source  of  foreign  weapons.  Iraq  imported 
billions  of  dollars  worth  of  French  capital  and  consumer  goods  dur- 
ing the  1970s  and  signed  several  agreements  with  French  compa- 
nies for  technical  assistance  on  development  projects.  A  major 
project  was  the  Osiraq  (Osiris-Iraq)  nuclear  reactor,  which  French 
engineers  were  helping  to  construct  at  Tuwaitha  near  Baghdad 


204 


Government  and  Politics 


before  it  was  bombed  by  Israel  in  June  1981.  Because  Iraq  was 
a  signatory  to  the  nuclear  weapons  Nonproliferation  Treaty  and 
had  previously  agreed  to  permit  on-site  inspections  of  its  nuclear 
energy  facilities  by  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  and 
because  France  expected  to  reap  considerable  economic  benefits 
from  Iraqi  goodwill,  France  agreed  to  assist  in  the  reconstruction 
of  the  nuclear  power  station;  however,  as  of  early  1988  no  major 
reconstruction  work  had  been  undertaken. 

Economic  links  with  France  became  especially  important  after 
the  war  with  Iran  had  begun.  Arms  purchases  from  France,  for 
example,  continued  in  the  1980  to  1982  period  when  the  Soviet 
Union  was  withholding  weapons  supplies.  France  also  provided 
Iraq  generous  credits,  estimated  at  US$7  billion,  during  1980  to 
1983  when  oil  revenues  were  severely  reduced  on  account  of  the 
war-related  decline  in  exports.  To  demonstrate  its  support  further, 
in  1983  France  provided  Iraq  with  advanced  weapons,  including 
Exocet  missiles  and  Super  Etendard  jets,  which  Iraq  subsequently 
used  for  attacks  on  Iranian  oil  loading  facilities  and  on  tankers 
carrying  Iranian  oil. 

Iraq's  ties  with  the  United  States  developed  more  slowly,  primar- 
ily because  the  Baathists  were  antagonistic  to  the  close  United  States- 
Israeli  relationship.  Relations  had  been  severed  following  the  June 

1967  Arab-Israeli  War,  before  the  Baath  came  to  power,  but  after 

1968  the  government  became  interested  in  acquiring  American  tech- 
nology for  its  development  programs.  State  organizations  were 
therefore  permitted  to  negotiate  economic  contracts,  primarily  with 
private  American  firms.  In  discussing  the  United  States  during  the 
1970s,  the  government  emphasized,  however,  that  its  ties  were  eco- 
nomic, not  political,  and  that  these  economic  relations  involving 
the  United  States  were  with  "companies,"  not  between  the  two 
countries. 

Even  though  Iraqi  interest  in  American  technical  expertise  was 
strong,  prior  to  1980  the  government  did  not  seem  to  be  seriously 
interested  in  reestablishing  diplomatic  relations  with  the  United 
States.  The  Baath  Party  viewed  the  efforts  by  the  United  States 
to  achieve  "step-by-step"  interim  agreements  between  Israel  and 
the  Arab  countries  and  the  diplomatic  process  that  led  to  the  Camp 
David  Accords  as  calculated  attempts  to  perpetuate  Arab  disunity. 
Consequentiy,  Iraq  took  a  leading  role  in  organizing  Arab  oppo- 
sition to  the  diplomatic  initiatives  of  the  United  States.  After  Egypt 
signed  a  peace  treaty  with  Israel  in  1979,  Iraq  succeeded  in  getting 
members  of  the  League  of  Arab  States  (Arab  League)  to  vote  unani- 
mously for  Egypt's  expulsion  from  the  organization. 


205 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Concern  about  the  1979  Islamic  Revolution  in  Iran  and  about 
the  Soviet  invasion  of  Afghanistan  prompted  Iraq  to  reexamine 
seriously  the  nature  of  its  relationship  with  the  United  States.  This 
process  led  to  a  gradual  warming  of  relations  between  the  two  coun- 
tries. In  1981  Iraq  and  the  United  States  engaged  in  low-level,  offi- 
cial talks  on  matters  of  mutual  interest  such  as  trade  and  regional 
security.  The  following  year  the  United  States  extended  credits  to 
Iraq  for  the  purchase  of  American  agricultural  commodities,  the 
first  time  this  had  been  done  since  1967.  More  significant,  in  1983 
the  Baathist  government  hosted  a  United  States  special  Middle  East 
envoy,  the  highest-ranking  American  official  to  visit  Baghdad  in 
more  than  sixteen  years.  In  1984,  when  the  United  States  inaugu- 
rated "Operation  Staunch"  to  halt  shipment  of  arms  to  Iran  by 
third  countries,  no  similar  embargo  was  attempted  against  Iraq 
because  Saddam  Husayn's  government  had  expressed  its  desire 
to  negotiate  an  end  to  the  war.  All  of  these  initiatives  prepared  the 
ground  for  Iraq  and  the  United  States  to  reestablish  diplomatic 
relations  in  November  1984. 

In  early  1988,  Iraq's  relations  with  the  United  States  were  gener- 
ally cordial.  The  relationship  had  been  strained  at  the  end  of  1986 
when  it  was  revealed  that  the  United  States  had  secretly  sold  arms 
to  Iran  during  1985  and  1986,  and  a  crisis  occurred  in  May  1987 
when  an  Iraqi  pilot  bombed  an  American  naval  ship  in  the  Persian 
Gulf,  a  ship  he  mistakenly  thought  to  be  involved  in  Iran-related 
commerce.  Nevertheless,  the  two  countries  had  weathered  these 
problems  by  mid- 1987.  Although  lingering  suspicions  about  the 
United  States  remained,  Iraq  welcomed  greater,  even  if  indirect, 
American  diplomatic  and  military  pressure  in  trying  to  end  the 
war  with  Iran.  For  the  most  part,  the  government  of  Saddam 
Husayn  believed  the  United  States  supported  its  position  that  me 
war  was  being  prolonged  only  because  of  Iranian  intransigence. 

The  Persian  Gulf  Countries 

Iraq's  closest  relations  in  1988  were  with  the  countries  of  the 
Arabian  Peninsula,  especially  Kuwait  and  Saudi  Arabia.  This  was 
a  reversal  of  the  pattern  of  relations  that  had  persisted  in  the  1970s. 
The  original  Baathist  view  of  the  Arabian  Peninsula  shaykhdoms 
was  that  they  were  regimes  that  had  been  set  up  by  the  imperialist 
powers  to  serve  their  own  interests.  This  attitude  was  reinforced 
in  the  period  between  1968  and  1971 ,  when  Britain  was  preparing 
the  countries  of  Bahrain,  Oman,  Qatar,  and  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  (UAE)  for  complete  independence.  Iraq  wished  to  have 
an  influence  on  the  governments  that  would  come  to  power,  and 
it  provided  clandestine  assistance  to  various  groups  opposed  to  the 


206 


Government  and  Politics 


pro-British  rulers.  Iraqi  support  of  dissident  movements  was  par- 
ticularly evident  in  Oman,  where  an  organized  guerrilla  force  was 
fighting  the  government  from  the  late  1960s  to  the  mid-1970s. 

The  Baathist  perception  of  Iran's  role  in  the  Persian  Gulf  was 
an  important  factor  in  Iraqi  views  of  the  Arabian  Peninsula  states. 
In  1969  Iran,  which  was  then  providing  aid  to  dissident  Iraqi  Kurds, 
unilaterally  abrogated  a  1937  treaty  that  had  established  the  Shatt 
al  Arab  boundary  along  the  low  water  on  the  Iranian  shore;  in  1971 
Iran  forcibly  occupied  three  small  islands  in  the  lower  gulf  near 
the  approaches  to  the  Strait  of  Hormuz;  and  by  1972  Iran  was  again 
giving  assistance  to  antigovernment  Kurds.  As  Iraq  became 
increasingly  concerned  about  Iranian  policies,  it  tried  to  enlist  the 
cooperation  of  the  Arab  monarchies  in  an  effort  to  keep  the  Persian 
Gulf  independent  of  Iranian  influence.  Iraq  believed  it  was  possi- 
ble to  collaborate  with  the  Arab  kings  and  shaykhs  because  the  latter 
had  proven  their  Arab  nationalism  by  participating  in  the  1973 
oil  boycott  against  the  Western  countries  supporting  Israel.  Despite 
Iraq's  new  friendliness,  the  rulers  in  countries  like  Kuwait  and  Saudi 
Arabia  did  not  easily  forget  their  suspicions  of  Iraqi  radicalism. 
Nevertheless,  political  discussions  were  initiated,  and  progress  was 
made  toward  resolving  disputes  over  borders,  over  oil  pricing  policy, 
and  over  support  for  subversion. 

By  the  time  the  Islamic  Revolution  occurred  in  Iran  in  1979, 
Iraq  had  succeeded  in  establishing  generally  correct  relations  with 
the  Arab  states  of  the  Persian  Gulf.  The  war  with  Iran  served  as 
a  catalyst  to  develop  these  relations  even  further.  Although  the  Gulf 
states  proclaimed  their  neutrality  in  the  war,  in  practice  they  gave 
Iraq  crucial  financial  support.  The  unexpected  prolongation  of  the 
war  and  the  closing  of  Iraqi  ports  early  in  the  war  had  produced 
a  severe  economic  crunch  by  the  beginning  of  1981.  In  response, 
Kuwait,  Qatar,  Saudi  Arabia,  and  the  UAE  all  provided  loans  to 
help  replace  revenues  that  Iraq  had  lost  because  of  the  decline  of 
its  oil  exports.  Saudi  Arabia  and  Kuwait  were  particularly  gener- 
ous, providing  an  estimated  US$50  billion  in  interest-free  loans 
up  through  1987.  In  addition,  a  major  portion  of  Iraq's  nonmili- 
tary  imports  were  shipped  to  Kuwaiti  harbors,  then  transported 
overland  to  Iraq.  Saudi  Arabia  also  agreed  to  provide  to  Iraqi  con- 
tract customers  part  of  its  own  oil  from  the  Neutral  Zone,  juris- 
diction over  which  it  shared  with  Iraq;  it  was  understood  that  Iraq 
would  repay  this  oil  "loan"  after  the  war  had  ended. 

Iraq  and  Other  Arab  Countries 

The  war  with  Iran  changed  the  Baathist  perception  of  what  con- 
stituted the  principal  threat  to  Arab  unity.  Prior  to  1980,  the  Baath 


207 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

leaders  had  identified  Zionism  as  the  main  danger  to  Arab  nation- 
alism. After  the  war  had  begun,  Iranian  nationalism  was  perceived 
as  the  primary  force  threatening  the  Arabs.  Under  the  pressures 
of  war,  Iraq  became  reconciled  with  Egypt  and  moderated  its  once- 
uncompromising  stance  on  Israel.  This  reconciliation  was  ironic, 
because  Iraq  had  taken  the  lead  in  1978  and  in  1979  in  ostracizing 
Egypt  for  recognizing  Israel  and  for  signing  a  separate  peace  treaty 
with  the  latter  state.  The  war  with  Iran  helped  to  transform  Egypt 
from  an  excoriated  traitor  into  a  much-appreciated  ally.  Factories 
in  Egypt  produced  munitions  and  spare  parts  for  the  Iraqi  army, 
and  Egyptian  workers  filled  some  of  the  labor  shortages  created 
by  the  mobilization  of  so  many  Iraqi  men.  As  early  as  1984,  Iraq 
publicly  called  for  Egypt's  readmission  into  pan- Arab  councils,  and 
in  1987  Iraq  was  one  of  the  countries  leading  the  effort  to  have 
Egypt  readmitted  to  the  Arab  League. 

The  Baath  also  abandoned  its  former  hostility  to  countries  such 
as  Jordan,  Morocco,  and  the  Yemen  Arab  Republic  (North 
Yemen).  On  a  smaller  scale  than  Egypt,  Jordan  provided  Iraq  with 
tanks  and  with  laborers,  and  it  served  as  a  transshipment  point 
for  goods  intended  for  Iraq. 

The  most  ideologically  significant  consequence  of  the  war  was 
the  evolution  of  Baathist  views  on  the  issue  of  Palestine.  Prior  to 
1980,  Iraq  had  opposed  any  negotiations  that  might  lead  to  the 
creation  of  a  Palestinian  state  on  the  Israeli-occupied  West  Bank 
and  in  the  Gaza  Strip  on  the  ground  that  these  territories  constituted 
only  part  of  historic  Palestine.  Accordingly,  Iraq  supported  the  most 
extreme  Palestinian  guerrilla  groups,  the  so-called  "rejectionist" 
factions,  and  was  hostile  toward  the  mainstream  Palestine  Libera- 
tion Organization  (PLO).  Thus,  Iraq  provided  financial  and  mili- 
tary aid  to  such  forces  as  George  Habash's  Popular  Front  for  the 
Liberation  of  Palestine  (PFLP),  the  Palestine  Liberation  Front,  and 
the  Arab  Liberation  Front.  The  latter  group  had  actually  been 
founded  by  the  Baath  in  1969.  In  addition,  Iraq  was  widely  believed 
to  have  links  to  various  Palestinian  terrorist  groups  such  as  the  "Spe- 
cial Operations  Branch"  of  the  PFLP,  Black  June,  the  Arab  Orga- 
nization of  the  15th  May,  and  the  Abu  Nidal  Organization. 

Beginning  in  1980,  Iraq  gradually  retreated  from  its  long-held 
position  that  there  could  never  be  any  recognition  of  Israel.  In  1983 
Baath  leaders  accepted  the  de  facto  partition  of  pre- 1948  Palestine 
by  stating  publicly  that  there  could  be  negotiations  with  Israel  for 
a  peaceful  resolution  of  the  Arab-Israeli  dispute.  Consequently, 
Iraq  cut  its  ties  to  the  extremist  Palestinian  factions,  including  that 
of  Abu  Nidal,  who  was  expelled  from  the  country  in  November; 
he  subsequently  established  new  headquarters  in  Syria.  Iraq  shifted 


208 


Government  and  Politics 


its  support  to  the  mainstream  Palestinian  groups  that  advocated 
negotiations  for  a  Palestinian  state.  Yasir  Arafat's  Al  Fatah  organi- 
zation was  permitted  to  reopen  an  office  in  Baghdad.  Arafat,  whose 
proposed  assassination  for  alleged  treason  against  the  Palestinians 
had  been  clandestinely  supported  by  Iraq  in  the  late  1970s,  was 
even  invited  to  visit  the  country.  This  shift  represented  a  fundamen- 
tal revolution  in  the  thinking  of  the  Iraqi  Baath.  In  effect,  by  1986 
the  Baath  Party  was  saying  that  the  Palestinians  had  to  determine 
for  themselves  the  nature  of  their  relationship  with  Israel. 

Iraq's  most  bitter  foreign  relationship  was  with  the  rival  Baath 
government  in  Syria.  Although  there  were  periods  of  amity  between 
the  two  governments — such  as  the  one  immediately  after  the 
October  1973  Arab-Israeli  War  and  the  one  in  October  1978,  when 
Iraq  and  Syria  both  opposed  Egypt's  plans  for  a  separate  peace 
with  Israel — the  governments  generally  were  hostile  to  one  another. 
Relations  began  to  deteriorate  once  again  at  the  end  of  1980  fol- 
lowing the  outbreak  of  the  war  with  Iran.  Syria  criticized  Iraq  for 
diverting  Arab  attention  from  the  real  enemy  (Israel)  and  for  attack- 
ing a  regime  (Iran)  supportive  of  the  Arab  cause.  Relations  wors- 
ened throughout  1981  as  each  country  accused  the  other  of  assisting 
antiregime  political  groups.  In  April  1982,  Syria  closed  its  borders 
with  Iraq  and  cut  off  the  flow  of  Iraqi  oil  through  the  pipeline  that 
traversed  Syrian  territory  to  ports  on  the  Mediterranean  Sea.  The 
cessation  of  Iraqi  oil  exports  via  this  pipeline  was  a  severe  economic 
blow;  Iraq  interpreted  the  move  as  a  confirmation  of  Syria's  de 
facto  alliance  with  Iran  in  the  war. 

The  hostility  between  Iraq  and  Syria  has  been  a  source  of  con- 
cern to  the  other  Arab  states.  King  Hussein  of  Jordan,  in  particu- 
lar, tried  to  reconcile  the  Iraqi  and  Syrian  leaders.  Although  his 
efforts  to  mediate  a  meeting  between  Saddam  Husayn  and  Syrian 
president  Hafiz  al  Assad  were  finally  realized  in  early  1987,  these 
private  discussions  did  not  lead  to  substantive  progress  in  resolv- 
ing the  issues  that  divided  the  two  countries.  Intense  diplomatic 
efforts  by  Jordan  and  by  Saudi  Arabia  also  resulted  in  the  atten- 
dance of  both  presidents,  Husayn  and  Assad,  at  the  Arab  League 
summit  in  Amman  in  November  1987.  The  Iraqis  were  irritated, 
however,  that  Syria  used  its  influence  to  prevent  the  conference 
from  adopting  sanctions  against  Iran.  The  animosities  that  have 
divided  the  rival  Iraqi  and  Syrian  factions  of  the  Baath  appeared 
to  be  as  firmly  rooted  as  ever  in  early  1988. 

Relations  with  Other  Countries 

In  1988  Iraq  maintained  cordial  relations  with  Turkey,  its 
non-Arab  neighbor  to  the  north.  Turkey  served  as  an  important 


209 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

transshipment  point  for  both  Iraqi  oil  exports  and  its  commodity 
imports.  A  pipeline  transported  oil  from  the  northern  oil  fields  of 
Iraq  through  Turkey  to  the  Mediterranean  Sea.  Trucks  carrying 
a  variety  of  European  manufactured  goods  used  Turkish  highways 
to  bring  imports  into  Iraq.  There  was  also  trade  between  Turkey 
and  Iraq,  the  former  selling  Iraq  small  arms,  produce,  and  tex- 
tiles. In  addition,  Iraq  and  Turkey  have  cooperated  in  suppress- 
ing Kurdish  guerrilla  activities  in  their  common  border  area. 

Outside  the  Middle  East,  Iraq  maintained  correct  relations  with 
other  countries.  Iraq  identified  itself  as  part  of  the  Non- Aligned 
Movement  of  primarily  African  and  Asian  nations,  actively  par- 
ticipated in  its  deliberations  during  the  late  1970s,  and  successfully 
lobbied  to  have  Baghdad  chosen  as  the  site  for  its  September  1982 
conference.  Although  significant  resources  were  expended  to  pre- 
pare facilities  for  the  conference,  and  Saddam  Husayn  would  have 
emerged  from  the  meeting  as  a  recognized  leader  of  the  Nonaligned 
Movement,  genuine  fears  of  an  Iranian  bombing  of  the  capital  dur- 
ing the  summer  of  1982  forced  the  government  reluctantly  to  request 
that  the  venue  of  the  conference  be  transferred  to  New  Delhi.  Since 
that  time,  preoccupation  with  the  war  against  Iran,  which  also  is 
a  member  of  the  Nonaligned  Movement,  has  tended  to  restrict  the 
scope  of  Iraqi  participation  in  that  organization. 

Participation  in  International  Organizations 

Iraq  is  a  member  of  the  UN  and  of  its  affiliated  agencies.  It  also 
is  a  member  of  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glos- 
sary), the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  and  the  Interna- 
tional Labour  Organisation  (ILO).  The  Iraqi  Red  Crescent  is 
affiliated  with  the  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross.  Iraq 
is  one  of  the  founding  members  of  OPEC.  Iraq  also  belongs  to 
several  pan- Arab  organizations  including  the  Arab  League  and  the 
Organization  of  Arab  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries. 

*    *  * 

A  good  overview  of  Iraqi  politics  from  the  overthrow  of  the 
monarchy  in  1958  until  the  mid-1980s  is  Phebe  Marr's  The  Modern 
History  of  Iraq.  An  excellent  source  for  details  about  Iraqi  politics 
during  the  first  ten  years  of  Baath  Party  rule  is  Majid  Khadduri's 
Socialist  Iraq.  The  social  origins  of  the  Baath  leaders  are  exhaus- 
tively examined  in  Hanna  Batatu's  The  Old  Social  Classes  and  the 
Revolutionary  Movements  of  Iraq.  An  analysis  of  the  early  years  of 
Saddam  Husayn 's  presidency  is  Christine  Moss  Helms 's  study  Iraq, 
Eastern  Flank  of  the  Arab  World.  Tim  Niblock  edited  a  collection  of 


210 


Government  and  Politics 

essays  on  the  state  of  politics  at  the  beginning  of  the  1980s  called 
Iraq:  The  Contemporary  State.  For  background  on  the  war  with  Iran 
see  Jasim  Abdulghani,  Iraq  and  Iran:  The  Years  of  Crisis.  (For  fur- 
ther information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography). 


211 


I 


The  golden  helmet  of  Maskalam-dug,  king  of  Ur,  ca.  2450  B.  C. 


SOCIAL  UPHEAVALS  HAVE  PLAYED  a  major  role  in  Iraq's 
perception  of  its  national  security.  Internal  political  instability,  cou- 
pled with  recurrent  revolts  by  the  Kurdish  minority,  mobilized  the 
energies  of  successive  regimes  to  crush  opposition  forces  and  to 
restore  order.  During  the  mid-  and  late  1970s,  however,  the  Baath 
(Arab  Socialist  Resurrection)  Party  leaders  succeeded  in  establishing 
a  revolutionary  government,  which  temporarily  subdued  the  Kurd- 
ish revolt  in  northern  Iraq  and,  using  repressive  measures,  con- 
solidated its  power. 

The  higher  prices  of  petroleum  following  the  October  1973  Arab- 
Israeli  War,  and  the  Arab  oil  embargo,  resulted  in  an  accumula- 
tion of  wealth  that  enabled  Iraq  to  expand  its  armed  forces  in  an 
attempt  to  match,  in  strength  as  well  as  in  strategic  importance,  the 
capacity  of  its  neighbor,  Iran.  Having  signed  a  border  treaty  with 
Tehran  in  1975,  Baghdad  assumed  that  its  search  for  military  parity 
would  not  result  in  conflict,  in  particular  because  the  two  states 
enjoyed  economic  prosperity;  however,  regional  events,  ranging  from 
the  Soviet  Union's  expulsion  from  Egypt  in  1972  to  Egypt's  even- 
tual expulsion  from  the  League  of  Arab  States  (Arab  League)  in 
1979,  following  the  signing  of  the  separate  Israeli-Egyptian  Peace 
Treaty,  strengthened  Baghdad's  resolve  to  make  a  bid  for  regional 
leadership.  Armed  with  modern  weapons  and  with  sophisticated 
equipment  from  the  Soviet  Union  and  France,  Iraq  gained  a  sense 
of  invincibility  and,  when  the  opportunity  arose,  implemented  its 
resolve.  Threatened  by  the  1979  Islamic  Revolution  in  Iran  and  by 
its  potential  influence  on  Iraq's  majority  Shia  (see  Glossary)  popu- 
lation, Iraq  attacked  Iran  on  September  22,  1980. 

For  most  of  the  1980s,  Iraq  has  been  preoccupied  with  that  war. 
In  contrast  to  the  first  forty  years  of  Iraqi  independence,  when  the 
military  participated  in  several  coups,  the  Iraqi  armed  forces  demon- 
strated growing  professionalism  in  the  1980s  by  limiting  their  direct 
role  in  the  country's  political  life.  The  armed  forces'  loyalty  has 
also  been  assured  by  the  Baath  Party,  however,  which — after  con- 
ducting purges  against  the  military  during  the  1970s — continued 
to  maintain  a  close  eye  on  every  aspect  of  military  life  and  national 
security  in  the  late  1980s. 

National  Security  Concerns 

Like  most  developing  states,  but  perhaps  to  a  greater  extent 
because  of  internal  schisms,  Iraq  was  plagued  with  insecurity  and 


215 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

with  political  instability  after  independence  in  1932.  When  Brit- 
ain and  France  redrew  boundaries  throughout  the  Middle  East  fol- 
lowing the  dismemberment  of  the  Ottoman  Empire  after  World 
War  I,  the  region  that  eventually  became  Iraq  (under  the  Sykes- 
Picot  Agreement)  included  a  wide  variety  of  ethnic  and  religious 
groups  with  little  sense  of  national  unity  (see  World  War  I  and 
the  British  Mandate,  ch.  1).  The  absence  of  nation-building  ele- 
ments encouraged  various  sectors  of  Iraqi  society  to  oppose  the 
establishment  of  central  authority,  often  for  personal  and  ideolog- 
ical reasons.  Consequently,  clandestine  activities  against  the  state's 
budding  political  and  military  institutions  threatened  Iraq's  politi- 
cal leaders.  Insecurity  arising  from  domestic  opposition  to  the  state 
was  compounded  by  Iraq's  long-standing  isolation  from  neighboring 
countries  because  of  ideological  rivalries,  ethnic  and  religious  differ- 
ences, and  competition  for  influence  in  the  Persian  Gulf.  The  Iraqi 
political  agenda  was  further  burdened  in  the  late  1970s  by  the  newly 
inherited  Arab  leadership  role  that  came  with  Egypt's  isolation  in 
the  wake  of  the  Camp  David  Accords  and  the  ensuing  separate 
Israeli-Egyptian  Peace  Treaty. 

The  Baath  Party  that  ruled  Iraq  in  early  1988  came  to  power 
in  July  1968  determined  to  restore  order  to  a  country  where  politi- 
cal turmoil  was  the  norm  (see  The  Emergence  of  Saddam  Husayn, 
1968-79,  ch.  1).  Despite  several  coup  attempts  during  the  inter- 
vening twenty  years,  notably  in  1970  and  in  1973,  the  Baath  suc- 
cessfully ended  the  political  turbulence  of  the  1950s  and  the  1960s. 
Yet,  this  level  of  stability  was  achieved  only  through  harsh  methods 
imposed  by  an  increasingly  disciplined,  if  intolerant,  party.  Anti- 
state  conspirators,  including  fellow  Baathists,  were  rushed  into  exile, 
were  kept  under  house  arrest,  or  were  executed.  Actual  or  alleged 
coup  attempts  were  forcefully  put  down  and  were  followed  by  sys- 
tematic purges  of  the  bureaucracy  and  the  armed  forces;  moreover, 
the  party's  vigilance  on  internal  security  was  supported  by  a 
thorough  indoctrination  program  to  gain  and  to  maintain  formerly 
uncertain  loyalties,  both  within  the  armed  forces  and  in  the  civilian 
population. 

Baathist  success  in  maintaining  internal  security  resulted  partly 
from  its  1975  limited  victory  against  the  Kurds  (see  People,  ch.  2; 
Internal  Security,  this  ch.).  The  Iraqi-Iranian  border  agreement 
of  March  1975,  subsequently  formalized  in  the  Baghdad  Treaty 
in  June  1975,  resolved  a  number  of  disputes  between  the  two  states. 
Its  provisions  ended  Iranian  support  for  Iraqi  Kurds,  whose  strug- 
gles for  autonomy  had  troubled  Iraqi  governments  since  1932. 
Bolstered  by  this  limited  success,  Baghdad  adopted  a  variety  of 
measures  in  the  succeeding  decade  in  order  to  emerge  from  its 


216 


National  Security 


political  isolation  and  assert  its  strategic  value.  The  1970s  closed 
under  a  cloud  of  insecurity,  however,  as  the  Baathists  took  stock 
of  the  revolutionary  Islamic  regime  in  Tehran.  Threatened  by 
Ayatollah  Sayyid  Ruhollah  Musavi  Khomeini's  repeated  calls  to 
Iraqi  Shias  to  follow  in  the  Iranian  people's  footsteps  by  overthrow- 
ing usurpers  of  power,  the  Baathist  leadership  embarked  on  an 
adventurous  war.  Seven  years  later,  Baghdad  was  nowhere  near 
its  objective,  and  it  was  struggling  to  avoid  a  military  defeat. 
Nevertheless,  the  Baath  Party  continued  to  maintain  its  influence 
in  Iraq  throughout  the  early  and  mid-1980s.  For  the  most  part, 
the  Revolutionary  Command  Council  (RCC)  and  its  chairman, 
President  Saddam  Husayn  (also  seen  as  Hussein),  maintained  their 
political  positions  through  repressive  means  and  by  what  was  justi- 
fied as  a  defensive  Iraqi  war  against  a  perceived  threat.  Foreign 
observers  believed  that  the  government  remained  vulnerable  to 
challenges  to  its  authority  because  of  the  lack  of  any  legitimate 
means  of  political  dissent  and  because  of  the  reverberations  of  a 
war  of  attrition  with  mounting  casualties. 

Iraq  had  enjoyed  a  relatively  favorable  national  security  situa- 
tion in  the  late  1970s,  but  practically  all  its  perceived  politico- 
military  gains  were  lost  after  it  attacked  Iran  in  1980,  and  in  1988 
Iraq  faced  serious  economic  and  military  difficulties. 

The  Regular  Armed  Forces 
Size,  Equipment,  and  Organization 

During  the  late  1970s  and  the  mid-1980s,  the  Iraqi  armed  forces 
underwent  many  changes  in  size,  structure,  arms  supplies,  hier- 
archy, deployment,  and  political  character.  Headquartered  in  Bagh- 
dad, the  army — of  an  estimated  1.7  million  or  more  Iraqis, 
including  reserves  (actual  numbers  not  available)  and  paramili- 
tary— in  1987  had  seven  corps,  five  armored  divisions  (each  with 
one  armored  brigade  and  one  mechanized  brigade),  and  three 
mechanized  divisions  (each  with  one  armored  brigade  and  two  or 
more  mechanized  brigades).  An  expanded  Presidential  Guard  Force 
was  composed  of  three  armored  brigades,  one  infantry  brigade, 
and  one  commando  brigade.  There  were  also  thirty  infantry  divi- 
sions, composed  of  the  People's  Army  (Al  Jaysh  ash  Shaabi — also 
cited  as  the  Popular  Army  or  People's  Militia)  brigades  and  the 
reserve  brigades,  as  well  as  six  Special  Forces  brigades. 

This  growth  in  the  manpower  and  equipment  inventories  of  the 
Iraqi  armed  forces  was  facilitated  by  Iraq's  capacity  to  pay  for  a 
large  standing  army  and  was  occasioned  by  Iraq's  need  to  fight 
a  war  with  Iran,  a  determined  and  much  larger  neighbor.  Whereas 


217 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

in  1978  active-duty  military  personnel  numbered  fewer  than 
200,000,  and  the  military  was  equipped  with  some  of  the  most 
sophisticated  weaponry  of  the  Soviet  military  arsenal,  by  1987  the 
quality  of  offensive  weapons  had  improved  dramatically,  and  the 
number  of  men  under  arms  had  increased  almost  fourfold  (see 
table  10,  Appendix). 

Army  equipment  inventories  increased  significantly  during  the 
mid-1980s.  Whereas  in  1977  the  army  possessed  approximately 
2,400  tanks,  including  several  hundred  T-62  models,  in  1987  the 
International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies  estimated  that  Iraq 
deployed  about  4,500  tanks,  including  advanced  versions  of  the 
T-72.  Other  army  equipment  included  about  4,000  armored 
vehicles,  more  than  3,000  towed  and  self-propelled  artillery  pieces, 
a  number  of  FROG- 7  and  Scud-B  surface-to-surface  missiles  with 
a  range  of  up  to  300  kilometers,  and  an  array  of  approximately 
4,000  (some  self-propelled)  antiaircraft  guns.  The  vast  majority  of 
the  army's  equipment  inventory  was  of  Soviet  manufacture, 
although  French  and  Brazilian  equipment  in  particular  continued 
to  be  acquired  in  Iraq's  ongoing  attempt  to  diversify  its  sources 
of  armaments  (see  table  11,  Appendix).  This  mammoth  arsenal 
gave  Iraq  a  clear-cut  advantage  over  Iran  in  1987.  Iraq  had  an 
advantage  of  more  than  four  to  one  in  tanks  (4,500  to  1,000);  four 
to  one  in  armored  vehicles  (4,000  to  1 ,000);  and  two  to  one  in  artil- 
lery and  antiaircraft  pieces  (7,330  to  3,000).  Despite  this  quantitative 
and  qualitative  superiority,  the  Iraqi  army  by  the  end  of  1987  had 
not  risked  its  strength  in  a  final  and  decisive  battle  to  win  the  war. 

Headquartered  in  Basra,  the  5,000-man  navy  was  the  smallest 
branch  of  the  armed  forces  in  early  1988,  and,  in  contrast  to  the 
Iranian  navy,  had  played  virtually  no  role  in  the  war.  Iraq's  second 
naval  facility  at  Umm  Qasr  took  on  added  importance  after  1980, 
in  particular  because  the  Shatt  al  Arab  waterway,  which  leads  into 
Basra,  was  the  scene  of  extensive  fighting.  It  was  at  Umm  Qasr 
that  most  of  the  Iraqi  navy's  active  vessels  were  based  in  early  1988. 
Between  1977  and  1987,  Iraq  purchased  from  the  Soviet  Union 
eight  fast-attack  OSA-class  patrol  boats — each  equipped  with  Styx 
surface-to-surface  missiles  (SSMs).  In  late  1986,  Iraq  obtained  from 
Italy  four  Lupo  class  frigates,  and  six  Wadi  Assad  class  corvettes 
equipped  with  Otomat-2  SSMs.  Although  the  four  frigates  and  the 
six  corvettes  was  held  in  Italy  under  an  embargo  imposed  by  the 
Italian  government,  these  purchases  signaled  Iraq's  intention  to 
upgrade  its  naval  power.  Observers  speculated  that  the  end  of  the 
war  with  Iran  could  be  followed  by  a  rapid  expansion  of  the  Iraqi 
navy,  which  could  exercise  its  influence  in  northern  Persian  Gulf 
waters  (see  table  12,  Appendix). 


218 


National  Security 


In  1987  the  Iraqi  air  force  consisted  of  40,000  men,  of  whom 
about  10,000  were  attached  to  its  subordinate  Air  Defense  Com- 
mand. The  air  force  was  headquartered  in  Baghdad,  and  major 
bases  were  located  at  Basra,  H-3  (site  of  a  pump  station  on  the 
oil  pipeline  in  western  Iraq),  Kirkuk,  Mosul,  Rashid,  and  Ash 
Shuaybah.  Iraq's  more  than  500  combat  aircraft  were  formed  into 
two  bomber  squadrons,  eleven  fighter- ground  attack  squadrons, 
five  interceptor  squadrons,  and  one  counterinsurgency  squadron 
of  10  to  30  aircraft  each.  Support  aircraft  included  two  transport 
squadrons.  As  many  as  ten  helicopter  squadrons  were  also  opera- 
tional, although  these  formed  the  Army  Air  Corps.  The  Air  Defense 
Command  piloted  the  MiG-25,  MiG-21,  and  various  Mirage  inter- 
ceptors and  manned  Iraq's  considerable  inventory  of  surface-to- 
air  missiles  (SAMs). 

The  equipment  of  the  air  force  and  the  army's  air  corps,  like  that 
of  the  other  services,  was  primarily  of  Soviet  manufacture.  After 
1980,  however,  in  an  effort  to  diversify  its  sources  of  advanced 
armaments,  Iraq  turned  to  France  for  Mirage  fighters  and  for  attack 
helicopters.  Between  1982  and  1987,  Iraq  received  or  ordered  a  vari- 
ety of  equipment  from  France,  including  more  than  100  Mirage 
F-ls,  about  100  Gazelle,  Super-Frelon,  and  Alouette  helicopters, 
and  a  variety  of  air-to- surface  and  air-to-air  missiles,  including 
Exocets.  Other  attack  helicopters  purchased  included  the  Soviet  Hind 
equipped  with  AT-2  Swatter,  and  BO- 105s  equipped  with  AS-1 1 
antitank  guided  weapons.  In  addition,  Iraq  bought  seventy  F-7 
(Chinese  version  of  the  MiG-21)  fighters,  assembled  in  Egypt.  Thus 
Iraq's  overall  airpower  was  considerable  (see  table  13,  Appendix). 

Although  Iraq  expanded  its  arms  inventory,  its  war  efforts  may 
have  been  hindered  by  poor  military  judgment  and  by  lack  of 
resolve.  Saddam  Husayn  was  the  country's  head  of  state  and  pre- 
mier as  well  as  the  chairman  of  both  the  RCC  and  the  Baath  Party; 
moreover,  in  1984  he  assumed  the  rank  of  field  marshal  and 
appointed  himself  commander  in  chief  of  the  Iraqi  armed  forces. 
Iraqi  propaganda  statements  claimed  that  Saddam  Husayn  had 
"developed  new  military  ideas  and  theories  of  global  importance," 
but  few  Western  military  analysts  gave  credence  to  such  claims. 
Since  1980  General  Adnan  Khairallah,  who  served  as  both  deputy 
commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces  and  minister  of  defense, 
was  the  highest  officer  in  the  military  chain  of  command.  In  1987 
he  also  assumed  the  position  of  deputy  prime  minister.  His  multi- 
ple roles  reflected  the  predominance  of  the  army  in  the  organiza- 
tional structure  of  the  armed  forces.  Sattar  Ahmad  Jassin  was 
appointed  secretary  general  of  defense  and  adjutant  of  the  armed 
forces  in  1985.  General  Abd  al  Jabar  Shanshal  assumed  the  position 


219 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

of  chief  of  the  armed  forces  general  staff  in  1984.  Frequent  changes 
at  the  general  staff  level  indicated  to  foreign  observers  that  Iraq's 
military  failures  were  primarily  the  result  of  poor  leadership  and 
an  overly  rigid  command  structure.  Defective  leadership  was  evi- 
dent in  the  lack  of  clear  orders  and  in  the  poor  responses  by  the 
army  in  the  occupation  of  Susangerd.  In  October  1980,  armored 
units  twice  advanced  and  withdrew  from  the  city,  and  later  in  the 
same  operation,  the  army  abandoned  strategic  positions  near 
Dezful.  Rigid  control  of  junior  officers  and  of  noncommissioned 
officers  (NCOs)  frustrated  their  initiative  and  may  have  been  the 
reason  for  the  high  casualty  figures  in  the  infantry,  where  initia- 
tive and  spontaneity  in  decision  making  can  be  of  paramount  impor- 
tance. The  command  structure  reportedly  was  even  more  inflexible 
and  slow  in  the  People's  Army  detachments,  where  political  com- 
manders routinely  made  military  decisions. 

Manpower  and  Training 

Historically,  under  Turkish  rule,  Iraqi  conscripts  were  often 
transported  to  distant  locations  within  the  vast  Ottoman  Empire, 
and  they  were  not  allowed  to  return  home  for  many  years.  During 
the  early  years  of  independence,  conditions  of  service  were  nearly 
as  onerous:  pay  was  irregular,  troops  were  misused,  and  retention 
beyond  the  compulsory  period  remained  a  common  practice. 
Throughout  modern  history,  the  majority  of  conscripts  have  ful- 
filled much  of  their  service  obligation  in  the  rugged  mountains  of 
northern  Iraq,  where  conditions  were  Spartan  at  best  and  were  often 
very  dangerous.  Although  conditions  improved  markedly  during 
the  1970s,  and  conscription  was  no  longer  as  widely  resented  as 
it  had  been  for  more  than  a  century,  there  were  still  draft  dodgers, 
and  they  were  routinely  court-martialed  and  executed  in  public. 

In  the  past,  deferments  and  exemptions  from  conscription  were 
usually  granted  generously.  Until  1958  exemptions  could  be  bought. 
In  1988  deferments  were  still  available  to  full-time  students,  to  hard- 
ship cases,  and  to  those  with  brothers  serving  in  the  military.  The 
increase  in  manpower  needs  created  by  the  rapid  growth  of  the 
army  after  1973  and  the  war  with  Iran  after  1980  resulted  in  a  tight- 
ening of  previously  liberal  exemption  policies,  however.  In  1987 
observers  estimated  that  a  total  of  3  million  Iraqi  males,  aged  eigh- 
teen to  forty-five,  were  fit  for  military  service.  An  additional  2  mil- 
lion Iraqi  females  in  the  same  age  group  were  potentially  available 
for  military  service. 

Males  were  liable  to  conscription  until  the  age  of  forty-five.  In 
1980  the  two-year  compulsory  period  of  service  was  extended 
without  specific  time  limitations,  to  support  the  war  effort;  many 


220 


National  Security 


trained  technicians  started  serving  as  long  as  five  years.  A  man 
could  also  volunteer — for  a  two-year  term  that  could  be  extended 
by  periods  of  two  years — as  an  alternative  to  conscription  or  for 
additional  service  at  any  time  between  ages  eighteen  and  forty-three. 
After  two  years  of  compulsory  active  service,  both  conscripts  and 
volunteers  were  obliged  to  spend  eighteen  years  in  a  reserve  unit. 
These  reserve  units  received  intensive  training  during  the  mid-1980s 
because  many  reservists  were  called  up  to  fill  manpower  shortages 
caused  by  the  Iran-Iraq  War  and  to  relieve  temporarily  those  on 
active  duty. 

Although  women  were  not  conscripted,  under  a  law  passed  in 
1977  they  could  be  commissioned  as  officers  if  they  held  a  health- 
related  university  degree,  and  they  could  be  appointed  as  warrant 
officers  or  NCOs  in  army  medical  institutes  if  they  were  qualified 
nurses.  The  vast  majority  of  women  in  the  armed  forces  held 
administrative  or  medical- related  positions,  but  an  increasing  num- 
ber of  women  performed  in  combat  functions  after  1981.  Women 
were  serving  in  combat  roles  both  in  the  air  force  and  in  the  Air 
Defense  Command  in  1987.  This  integration  of  women  into  the 
military  reflected  the  shortage  of  trained  males. 

Most  army  officers  came  from  the  Military  College  in  Baghdad, 
which  was  founded  in  1924.  Candidates  for  the  college  were  physi- 
cally qualified,  secondary- school  graduates  of  Iraqi  nationality,  who 
had  demonstrated  political  loyalty.  Cadets  were  divided  into  two 
groups,  combatant  (combat  arms)  and  administrative  (technology 
and  administration).  They  studied  common  subjects  during  the  first 
two  years,  and  they  specialized  according  to  their  group  designa- 
tion in  the  final  year.  On  graduation  cadets  received  commissions 
as  second  lieutenants  in  the  regular  army.  Some  were  granted  higher 
ranks  because  of  voluntary  service  on  the  war  front. 

Another  source  of  army  officers  was  the  Reserve  College  founded 
in  1952.  This  school  enrolled  two  classes  annually,  one  for  those 
who  held  professional  degrees,  such  as  medicine  and  pharmacy, 
and  one  for  secondary- school  graduates.  During  the  1970s,  approxi- 
mately 2,000  reserve  officers  were  graduated  each  year;  those  with 
professional  degrees  were  commissioned  as  second  lieutenants,  and 
those  without  a  college  education  were  appointed  as  warrant  officers. 
The  army  also  maintained  a  system  of  service  schools  for  training 
in  combat  arms  as  well  as  in  technical  and  administrative  services. 
Most  of  those  schools,  located  in  or  near  Baghdad,  have  conducted 
additional  courses  for  both  officers  and  NCOs  since  1980.  Since 
1928  the  army  has  also  maintained  a  two-year  staff  college  to  train 
selected  officers  in  all  services  for  command  and  staff  positions. 


221 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

In  mid- 1977  the  navy  opened  its  own  officer  training  academy. 
This  comparatively  new  institution  was  called  the  Arabian  Gulf 
Academy  for  Naval  Studies.  Since  1933  the  air  force  has  main- 
tained its  own  college  as  a  source  of  officer  personnel.  In  1971  the 
college  was  moved  from  Rashid  Airbase  (southeast  of  Baghdad) 
to  Tikrit.  It  offered  administrative  and  flight  training  courses  as 
well  as  training  for  technical  specialists.  (Iraqi  officers  and  pilots 
received  training  in  several  foreign  countries  as  well  in  the  1970s; 
pilots  were  trained  in  India  and  in  France,  and  especially  in  the 
Soviet  Union.) 

The  highest  level  of  military  training  in  Iraq  was  a  one-year 
course  conducted  at  Al  Bakr  University  for  Higher  Military  Studies 
(also  called  the  War  College)  in  Baghdad,  founded  in  1977.  At  the 
War  College,  high-ranking  officers  studied  modern  theories  and 
methods  of  warfare  in  preparation  for  assuming  top  command  and 
staff  positions  in  the  armed  forces.  Little  was  known  about  the  con- 
tent of  Iraq's  military  training,  although  political  and  ideological 
indoctrination  appeared  to  accompany  military  training  at  all  levels. 
In  any  case,  the  seven  years  of  combat  in  the  Iran-Iraq  War  could 
only  have  enhanced  technical  skills;  many  of  these  officers  presum- 
ably applied  their  theoretical  training  in  conducting  the  war.  By 
Western  accounts,  however,  the  battlefield  performance  of  mili- 
tary leaders  did  not  reflect  sophisticated  grasp  of  strategy  and  tactics 
(see  The  Iran-Iraq  War,  this  ch.). 

Conditions  of  Service  and  Morale 

Conditions  of  service  in  the  Iraqi  army  historically  have  been 
poor.  In  addition  to  receiving  low  and  irregular  pay,  during  much 
of  the  country's  modern  history  Iraqi  soldiers  were  involved  in  a 
costly  and  unpopular  war  with  Kurdish  rebels.  Having  to  fight  the 
Kurds  caused  morale  problems  and  desertions,  particularly  among 
the  army's  Kurdish  recruits,  and  on  at  least  two  occasions  between 
1975  and  1979  the  government  offered  amnesties  to  all  soldiers  and 
security  personnel  who  had  deserted  during  Kurdish  conflicts. 
Between  1975  and  1980,  Baghdad  made  some  progress  in  solving 
long-standing  morale  problems  and  in  improving  conditions  of  ser- 
vice. The  1975  victory  against  the  Kurds  and  increased  oil  income 
contributed  to  these  improvements.  A  reversal  recurred  in  1981, 
however,  when  many  of  the  Iraqi  military  failed  to  cope  with  combat 
stress,  and  thousands  experienced  psychological  problems  because 
of  their  war  experiences.  The  surrender  rate  was  also  high,  as 
prisoner-of-war  statistics  indicated,  and  that  further  demoralized 
loyal  troops. 


222 


National  Security 


In  1975  Baghdad  adopted  a  comprehensive  Military  Service  and 
Pension  Law  that  established  pay  scales,  allowances,  benefits,  and 
retirement  pay  designed  to  attract  officers  and  enlisted  men  from 
the  civilian  sector.  A  second  lieutenant  was  authorized  ID65  (ID 
or  Iraqi  dinar — for  value  of  dinar,  see  Glossary)  a  month  as  base 
pay,  with  an  increase  of  ID20  for  each  higher  rank.  Moreover,  an 
adjustable  cost-of-living  allowance  was  established,  as  was  a  family 
allowance  amounting  to  a  5  percent  increase  in  salary  for  each 
dependent.  Service  allowances  were  also  granted  to  those  with  spe- 
cial skills  or  duties.  Retirement  pay  was  commensurate  with  rank 
and  with  civilian  retirement  benefits,  and  indemnities  were  estab- 
lished for  the  families  of  soldiers  disabled  or  killed  in  action. 

After  the  military  defeats  of  1982,  the  entire  chain  of  command 
suffered  low  morale.  On  several  occasions,  signs  of  mutiny  in  oppo- 
sition to  the  war  emerged.  According  to  unverified  Iraqi  dissident 
reports,  the  number  of  deserters  reached  100,000,  and  in  central 
and  in  southern  Iraq,  they  formed  armed  groups  that  were  opposed 
to  the  regime.  Many  soldiers  refused  to  fight  in  Kurdistan,  and 
many  more  joined  the  armed  Kurdish  resistance  movement. 

Military  Justice  System 

Both  political  offenders  and  ordinary  criminal  offenders  in  the 
armed  forces  were  tried  in  the  military  courts,  but  Iraq's  military 
courts  had  no  jurisdiction  over  civilians  accused  of  security-related 
crimes.  Such  cases  were  reviewed  by  revolutionary  courts.  Mili- 
tary tribunals  were  held  in  camera  and  were  often  summary  in 
nature.  Although  little  information  was  available  in  early  1988, 
observers  believed  that  the  system  of  military  justice  differed  little 
from  the  system  in  operation  at  the  time  of  the  1968  Baath  Revo- 
lution. At  that  time  a  permanent  military  court  of  at  least  five  mem- 
bers was  usually  established  at  each  division  headquarters  and 
wherever  large  concentrations  of  nondivision  troops  were  stationed. 
In  addition,  emergency  military  courts  could  be  set  up  in  combat 
areas  to  expedite  the  trial  of  offenders  there.  Such  courts  usually 
consisted  of  three  members,  a  president  with  the  rank  of  lieutenant 
colonel  and  two  members  with  the  rank  of  major  or  above. 

The  highest  court  was  the  Military  Court  of  Cassation,  which 
sat  in  Baghdad.  It  was  appointed  by  the  minister  of  defense  and 
was  composed  of  a  president  with  the  rank  of  brigadier  general  or 
above  and  two  members  with  the  rank  of  colonel  or  above.  Appeals 
from  the  sentences  of  lower  military  courts  were  heard  in  the  Mili- 
tary Court  of  Cassation;  it  also  conducted  trials  of  the  first  instance 
of  senior  officers. 


223 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

A  number  of  changes  were  introduced  into  the  Penal  Code  of 
the  Popular  Army  since  1980.  Law  No.  32  of  1982,  for  example, 
made  several  offenses  by  service  personnel  punishable  by  death. 
In  its  1985  report,  Amnesty  International  noted  that  RCC  Reso- 
lution No.  1370  reaffirmed  the  death  penalty  for  various  offenses. 
These  included  fleeing  or  defaulting  from  military  service,  con- 
spiring against  the  state,  espionage,  and  joining  the  Ad  Dawah  al 
Islamiyah  (the  Islamic  Call),  commonly  referred  to  as  Ad  Dawah. 

Uniforms  and  Rank  Insignia 

In  the  late  1980s,  Iraqi  uniforms  consisted  of  service  and  field 
attire  for  both  summer  and  winter  and  a  dress  uniform  and  mess 
jacket  for  officers.  The  winter  service  dress  uniform,  of  olive  drab 
wool,  consisted  of  a  single-breasted  coat  having  patch  pockets  with 
flaps,  a  khaki  shirt  and  tie,  and  trousers  that  were  usually  cuffless. 
The  summer  uniform  was  similar  but  was  made  of  light  tan  mate- 
rial. The  winter  field  uniform  consisted  of  an  olive  drab  shirt,  wool 
trousers,  and  a  waist-length  jacket.  The  summer  field  uniform  was 
identical  in  style  but  was  made  of  lighter  material.  Both  field  uni- 
forms included  a  web  belt,  a  beret  or  helmet,  and  high- top  shoes. 

Commissioned  officers'  rank  insignia  were  identical  for  the  army 
and  for  the  air  force  except  that  shoulder  boards  were  olive  drab 
for  the  army  and  were  blue  for  the  air  force.  Naval  officer  rank 
insignia  consisted  of  gold  stripes  worn  on  the  lower  sleeve.  Army 
and  air  force  enlisted  personnel  wore  stripes  on  the  sleeve  to  desig- 
nate rank,  while  the  top  noncommissioned  officer  rank,  sergeant 
major  and  chief  master  sergeant,  respectively,  consisted  of  a  gold 
bar  on  top  of  the  shoulders  (see  fig.  12  and  fig.  13). 

Paramilitary  Forces 

In  1987  the  People's  Army  (Al  Jaysh  ash  Shaabi — also  cited  as 
the  Popular  Army  or  People's  Militia),  standing  at  an  estimated 
650,000,  approached  the  regular  armed  forces'  manpower  strength. 
Officially,  it  was  the  Iraqi  Baath  Party  Militia  and  included  a  spe- 
cial youth  section.  Formed  in  1970,  the  People's  Army  grew  rapidly, 
and  by  1977  it  was  estimated  to  have  50,000  active  members.  Sub- 
sequently, a  phenomenal  growth,  giving  the  militia  extensive  inter- 
nal security  functions,  occurred.  Whereas  its  original  purpose  was 
to  give  the  Baath  Party  an  active  role  in  every  town  and  village, 
the  People's  Army  in  1981  began  its  most  ambitious  task  to  date, 
the  support  of  the  regular  armed  forces. 

The  official  functions  of  the  People's  Army  were  to  act  as  back- 
up to  the  regular  armed  forces  in  times  of  war  and  to  safeguard 
revolutionary  achievements,  to  promote  mass  consciousness,  to 


224 


National  Security 


consolidate  national  unity,  and  to  bolster  the  relationship  between 
the  people  and  the  army  in  times  of  peace.  The  People's  Army 
dispatched  units  to  Iraqi  Kurdistan  before  1980  and  to  Lebanon 
to  fight  with  Palestinian  guerrillas  during  the  1975-76  Civil  War. 
Foreign  observers  concluded,  however,  that  the  primary  function 
of  the  People's  Army  was  political  in  nature;  first,  to  enlist  popu- 
lar support  for  the  Baath  Party,  and  second,  to  act  as  a  counter- 
weight against  any  coup  attempts  by  the  regular  armed  forces. 

Beginning  in  1974,  Taha  Yasin  Ramadan,  a  close  associate  of 
President  Saddam  Husayn,  commanded  the  People's  Army,  which 
was  responsible  for  internal  security.  The  command  of  such  a  large 
military  establishment  gave  Ramadan  so  much  power,  however, 
that  some  foreign  observers  speculated  that  the  primary  function 
of  his  second  in  command  was  to  keep  him  from  using  the  Peo- 
ple's Army  as  a  personal  power  base. 

People's  Army  members  were  recruited  from  among  both  women 
and  men  (who  had  completed  their  regular  army  service)  eighteen 
years  of  age  and  older.  It  was  unclear  whether  or  not  Baath  Party 
membership  was  a  prerequisite — especially  after  1981,  when  the 
numerical  strength  of  the  People's  Army  ballooned — but,  clearly, 
party  indoctrination  was  at  least  as  important  as  military  training. 
Members  usually  underwent  a  two-month  annual  training  period, 
and  they  were  paid  from  party  funds.  Although  the  extent  of  their 
training  was  unknown  in  early  1988,  all  recruits  were  instructed 
in  the  use  of  a  rifle.  Graduates  were  responsible  for  guarding  govern- 
ment buildings  and  installations,  and  they  were  concentrated  around 
sensitive  centers  in  major  towns.  Militia  members  possessed  some 
sophisticated  arms,  and  it  was  possible  that  disgruntied  officers  con- 
templating a  challenge  to  Saddam  Husayn  could  rally  the  support 
of  a  force  of  such  militiamen. 

Futuwah  (Youth  Vanguard)  was  a  paramilitary  organization  for 
secondary- school  students  founded  by  the  Baath  Party  in  1975.  Boys 
and  girls  between  the  ages  of  fourteen  and  eighteen  could  join 
Futuwah  and  receive  training  in  light  arms,  in  the  use  of  grenades, 
and  in  civil  defense  work.  By  early  1988,  several  thousand  Iraqi 
youth  had  volunteered  for  Futuwah  training,  and  they  had  been 
organized  into  youth  platoons.  Unverified  reports  claimed  that  some 
People's  Army  units  and  Futuwah  units  were  dispatched  to  the  war 
front  for  short  periods  of  time  in  1983  and  1985.  Visitors  to  Bagh- 
dad in  the  1980s,  however,  reported  that  most  civil  defense  activi- 
ties in  the  capital  were  performed  by  young  People's  Army 
members. 


225 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


National  Security 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Foreign  Military  Ties 

Military  Ties  Prior  to  the  Iran-Iraq  War 

Iraq's  armed  forces  were  heavily  dependent  on  foreign  military 
assistance  after  the  fall  of  the  Ottoman  Empire  at  the  end  of  World 
War  I.  In  1921  British  Mandate  authorities  undertook  the  train- 
ing of  Iraqi  soldiers  who  had  served  under  the  Ottomans.  The  Brit- 
ish reorganized  the  former  Ottoman  units  into  a  force  designed 
to  uphold  internal  law  and  order  and  to  serve  British  interests  by 
putting  down  frequent  tribal  revolts.  Until  1958  British  officers 
guided  the  development  of  the  armed  forces,  and  British  influence 
was  reflected  in  the  organization,  training,  and  equipment  of  the 
Iraqi  military.  Senior  Iraqi  officers  regularly  were  sent  to  Britain 
or  to  India  to  receive  advanced  training.  Iraq's  generally  Western- 
oriented  military  posture  throughout  this  period  culminated  in  the 
1955  Baghdad  Pact. 

The  revolution  of  July  14,  1958,  and  the  coming  to  power  of 
Abd  al  Karim  Qasim  completely  altered  Iraq's  military  orienta- 
tion. Disagreement  with  the  British  (and  with  the  Western  world's) 
stance  vis-a-vis  Israel  and  growing  pan-Arab  sentiment  led  Qasim 
to  abrogate  the  Baghdad  Pact  and  to  turn  to  the  Soviet  Union  for 
arms.  Since  1959  the  Soviet  Union  has  been  Iraq's  chief  arms  sup- 
plier and  its  most  essential  foreign  military  tie.  In  April  1972,  the 
two  states  signed  a  fifteen-year  Treaty  of  Friendship  and  Coopera- 
tion in  which  Iraq  and  the  Soviet  Union  agreed  to  "continue  to 
develop  cooperation  in  the  strengthening  of  the  defense  capabili- 
ties of  each." 

By  no  means,  however,  was  Iraq  a  "satellite"  of  the  Soviet 
Union.  Baghdad  consistently  insisted  on  its  independence  in  policy 
making,  and  on  a  number  of  key  issues,  including  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict,  Syria's  role  in  Lebanon,  and  the  Nonaligned  Movement, 
the  two  states  held  opposing  views.  Furthermore,  Iraq's  Baathist 
ideology  remained  fundamentally  antithetical  to  communism.  As 
a  further  sign  of  its  staunch  independence,  Iraq  insisted  on  its  free- 
dom to  purchase  weapons  from  Western  sources,  and  in  1980  it 
demonstrated  its  intention  to  diversify  its  source  of  armaments. 
Although  France  and  Britain  both  had  sold  some  arms  to  Iraq  dur- 
ing the  1966  to  1968  regime  of  Abd  ar  Rahman  Arif,  between  1974 
and  1980  Iraq  increased  its  purchases  from  France  by  acquiring 
helicopters,  antitank  missiles,  and  high  performance  Mirage  jet 
fighters. 

Despite  these  expressions  of  Iraqi  independence,  both  mutual 
interests  and  practical  necessity  dictated  the  Iraqi  air  forces' s  reliance 


228 


National  Security 


on  Soviet  support.  Total  Soviet  military  aid  to  Iraq  between  1958 
and  1974  was  estimated  at  the  equivalent  of  US$1.6  billion;  in  1975 
alone  such  Soviet  aid  was  estimated  at  US$1  billion.  Soviet  deliv- 
eries of  military  hardware  of  increasingly  higher  quality  between 
1976  and  1980  were  estimated  at  US$5  billion.  In  1977,  for  exam- 
ple, Iraq  ordered  the  Ilyushin  11-76  long-range  jet  transport,  the 
first  such  Soviet  aircraft  provided  to  a  foreign  state.  Until  1980 
nearly  1,200  Soviet  and  East  European  advisers,  as  well  as  150 
Cuban  advisers,  were  in  Iraq.  Iraqi  military  personnel  were  also 
trained  in  the  use  of  SAMs,  and  observers  estimated  that  between 
1958  and  1980,  nearly  5,000  Iraqis  received  military  training  in 
the  Soviet  Union. 

Although  receiving  arms  and  training  from  foreign  sources  itself, 
Iraq  provided  some  military  aid  to  irregular  units  engaged  in  pro- 
Iraqi  "national  liberation  movements"  in  the  Middle  East  and  in 
Africa  prior  to  1980.  Most  of  this  aid  was  in  monetary  grants  and 
in  armaments,  which  amounted  to  more  than  US$600  million 
annually.  Pro-Iraqi  Palestinian  groups,  such  as  the  Arab  Libera- 
tion Front,  received  the  bulk  of  the  aid,  but  several  African 
organizations,  including  the  Eritrean  Liberation  Front,  also  received 
some.  Volunteer  Iraqi  soldiers  fought  on  the  side  of  Palestinian 
guerrillas  in  Lebanon  on  at  least  two  occasions,  in  1976  against 
Syrian  troops  and  in  March  1978  against  Israeli  troops. 

The  Iran-Iraq  War  and  the  Quest  for  New  Sources  of  Arms 

As  a  result  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War,  Iraq  was  obliged  to  extend  its 
search  for  arms  in  1981.  By  the  time  the  war  entered  its  eighth 
year  in  September  1987,  Iraq  had  become  the  world's  biggest  single 
arms  market.  In  addition  to  its  purchases  from  the  Soviet  Union 
and  France,  Iraq  sought  to  buy  armaments  from  China,  the  Fed- 
eral Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany),  Italy,  Brazil,  Poland, 
Czechoslovakia,  and  Egypt,  among  others.  The  United  States  Arms 
Control  and  Disarmament  Agency  estimated  in  1987  that  Iraq  had 
imported  about  US$24  billion  worth  of  military  equipment  dur- 
ing the  period  from  1981  to  1985. 

Arms  from  the  Soviet  Union 

From  1972  to  1979,  the  percentage  of  Iraq's  military  equipment 
supplied  by  the  Soviet  Union  declined  from  95  to  63  percent.  Even 
so,  in  1987  the  Soviet  Union,  having  provided  more  than  US$8 
billion  worth  of  weapons  since  1980,  was  Iraq's  most  important 
arms  supplier.  In  its  1987  annual  study,  Soviet  Military  Power,  the 
United  States  Department  of  Defense  stated  that,  while  maintain- 
ing official  neutrality  in  the  Iran-Iraq  War,  the  Soviet  Union  had 


229 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

provided  extensive  military  assistance  to  Iraq  and,  at  the  same  time, 
continued  its  efforts  to  gain  leverage  on  Iran.  In  early  1987,  Moscow 
delivered  a  squadron  of  twenty-four  MiG-29  Fulcrums  to  Bagh- 
dad. Considered  the  most  advanced  fighter  in  the  Soviet  arsenal, 
the  MiG-29  previously  had  been  provided  only  to  Syria  and  India. 
The  decision  to  export  the  MiG-29  to  Iraq  also  assured  Iraq  a  more 
advantageous  payment  schedule  than  any  offered  by  the  West  and 
it  reflected  Soviet  support  for  one  of  its  traditional  allies  in  the  Mid- 
dle East.  Caught  in  a  financial  crisis,  Baghdad  welcomed  the  low- 
interest  loans  Moscow  extended  for  this  equipment. 

Although  the  Soviets  might  not  receive  payments  for  several 
years,  the  sale  of  military  hardware  remained  a  critical  source  of 
revenue  for  them,  and  they  have  tried  to  retain  Iraq  as  a  customer. 
In  May  1987,  for  example,  the  Soviets  provided  Iraq  with  better 
financial  terms  in  a  successful  effort  to  prevent  Iraq  from  buying 
sixty  French  Mirage  2000  fighters  for  an  estimated  US$3  billion. 
An  additional  US$3  billion  in  sales  of  helicopters  and  radar  equip- 
ment may  also  have  been  denied  to  the  French,  although  it  was 
not  possible  to  determine  whether  the  Soviets  agreed  to  fulfill  both 
requirements.  In  early  1988,  Iraq  owed  the  Soviet  Union  between 
US$8  billion  and  US$10  billion  in  military  debts  alone. 

Arms  from  France 

France  became  a  major  military  supplier  to  Iraq  after  1975  as 
the  two  countries  improved  their  political  relations.  In  order  to 
obtain  petroleum  imports  from  the  Middle  East  and  strengthen  its 
traditional  ties  with  Arab  and  Muslim  countries,  France  wanted 
a  politico-military  bridge  between  Paris  and  Baghdad. 

Between  1977  and  1987,  France  contracted  to  sell  a  total  of  133 
Mirage  F-l  fighters  to  Iraq.  The  first  transfer  occurred  in  1978, 
when  France  supplied  eighteen  Mirage  F-l  interceptors  and  thirty 
helicopters,  and  even  agreed  to  an  Iraqi  share  in  the  production 
of  the  Mirage  2000  in  a  US$2  billion  arms  deal.  In  1983  another 
twenty-nine  Mirage  F-ls  were  exported  to  Baghdad.  And  in  an 
unprecedented  move,  France  "loaned"  Iraq  five  Super-Etendard 
attack  aircraft,  equipped  with  Exocet  AM39  air- to- surface  missiles, 
from  its  own  naval  inventory.  The  Super-Etendards  were  used 
extensively  in  the  1984  tanker  war  before  being  replaced  by  several 
F-ls.  The  final  batch  of  twenty-nine  F-ls  was  ordered  in  Septem- 
ber 1985  at  a  cost  of  more  than  US$500  million,  a  part  of  which 
was  paid  in  crude  oil. 

In  1987  the  Paris-based  Le  Monde  estimated  that,  between  1981 
and  1985,  the  value  of  French  arms  transfers  to  Iraq  was  US$5.1 
billion,  which  represented  40  percent  of  total  French  arms  exports. 


230 


National  Security 


France,  however,  was  forced  to  reschedule  payment  on  most  of  its 
loans  to  Iraq  because  of  Iraq's  hard-pressed  wartime  economy  and 
did  so  willingly  because  of  its  longer  range  strategic  interests.  French 
president  Francois  Mitterand  was  quoted  as  saying  that  French 
assistance  was  really  aimed  at  keeping  Iraq  from  losing  the  war. 
Iraqi  debts  to  France  were  estimated  at  US$3  billion  in  1987. 

French  military  sales  to  Iraq  were  important  for  at  least  two  rea- 
sons. First,  they  represented  high-performance  items.  Iraq  received 
attack  helicopters,  missiles,  military  vehicles,  and  artillery  pieces 
from  France.  Iraq  also  bought  more  than  400  Exocet  AM39  air- 
to-surface  missiles  and  at  least  200  AS30  laser-guided  missiles 
between  1983  and  1986.  Second,  unlike  most  other  suppliers, 
France  adopted  an  independent  and  unambiguous  arms  sales  policy 
toward  Iraq.  France  did  not  tie  French  arms  commitments  to  Bagh- 
dad's politico-military  actions,  and  it  openly  traded  with  Iraq  even 
when  Iranian- inspired  terrorists  took  French  hostages  in  Lebanon. 
In  late  1987,  however,  the  French  softened  their  Persian  Gulf  policy, 
and  they  consummated  a  deal  with  Tehran  involving  the  exchange 
of  hostages  for  detained  diplomatic  personnel.  It  was  impossible 
in  early  1988  to  determine  whether  France  would  curtail  its  arms 
exports  to  Iraq  in  conjunction  with  this  agreement. 

The  Search  for  Nuclear  Technology 

On  June  7,  1981,  Israeli  air  force  planes  flew  over  Jordanian, 
Saudi,  and  Iraqi  airspace  to  attack  and  destroy  an  Iraqi  nuclear 
facility  near  Baghdad.  In  a  statement  issued  after  the  raid,  the  Israeli 
government  stated  that  it  had  discovered  from  "sources  of  unques- 
tioned reliability"  that  Iraq  was  producing  nuclear  bombs  at  the 
Osiraq  (acronym  for  Osiris-Iraq)  plant,  and,  for  this  reason,  Israel 
had  initiated  a  preemptive  strike.  Baghdad,  however,  reiterated 
a  previous  statement  that  the  French  atomic  reactor  was  designed 
for  research  and  for  the  eventual  production  of  electricity. 

The  attack  raised  a  number  of  questions  of  interpretation  regard- 
ing international  legal  concepts.  Those  who  approved  of  the  raid 
argued  that  the  Israelis  had  engaged  in  an  act  of  legitimate  self- 
defense  justifiable  under  international  law  and  under  Article  51 
of  the  charter  of  the  United  Nations  (UN).  Critics  contended  that 
the  Israeli  claims  about  Iraq's  future  capabilities  were  hasty  and 
ill-considered  and  asserted  that  the  idea  of  anticipatory  self-defense 
was  rejected  by  the  community  of  states.  In  the  midst  of  this  con- 
troversy, the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  came 
under  fire  from  individuals  and  from  governments  who  complained 
that  the  Vienna-based  UN  agency  had  failed  to  alert  the  world  to 
developments  at  Osiraq.  IAEA  officials  denied  these  charges  and 


231 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

reaffirmed  their  position  on  the  Iraqi  reactor,  that  is,  that  no 
weapons  had  been  manufactured  at  Osiraq  and  that  Iraqi  officials 
had  regularly  cooperated  with  agency  inspectors.  They  also  pointed 
out  that  Iraq  was  a  party  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (informally  called  the  Non-Proliferation  Treaty 
or  NPT)  and  that  Baghdad  had  complied  with  all  IAEA  guide- 
lines. The  Israeli  nuclear  facility  at  Dimona,  it  was  pointed  out, 
was  not  under  IAEA  safeguards,  because  Israel  had  not  signed  the 
NPT  and  had  refused  to  open  its  facilities  to  UN  inspections. 

After  the  raid,  Baghdad  announced  that  it  planned  to  rebuild 
the  destroyed  facility.  Although  France  agreed  in  principle  to  pro- 
vide technical  assistance,  no  definitive  timetable  had  been 
announced  as  of  early  1988. 

The  Iran-Iraq  War 

Of  the  many  conflicts  in  progress  around  the  world  in  early  1988, 
the  Iran-Iraq  War  was  by  far  the  bloodiest  and  the  costliest.  The 
Iran-Iraq  War  was  multifaceted  and  included  religious  schisms, 
border  disputes,  and  political  differences.  Conflicts  contributing 
to  the  outbreak  of  hostilities  ranged  from  centuries-old  Sunni-versus- 
Shia  (for  Sunni — see  Glossary)  and  Arab-versus-Persian  religious 
and  ethnic  disputes  to  a  personal  animosity  between  Saddam 
Husayn  and  Ayatollah  Khomeini.  Above  all,  Iraq  launched  the 
war  in  an  effort  to  consolidate  its  rising  power  in  the  Arab  world 
and  to  replace  Iran  as  the  dominant  Persian  Gulf  state.  Phebe  Marr, 
a  noted  analyst  of  Iraqi  affairs,  stated  that  "the  war  was  more 
immediately  the  result  of  poor  political  judgement  and  miscalcu- 
lation on  the  part  of  Saddam  Hussein,"  and  "the  decision  to  invade, 
taken  at  a  moment  of  Iranian  weakness,  was  Saddam's"  (see  The 
Iran-Iraq  Conflict,  ch.  1). 

Iraq  and  Iran  had  engaged  in  border  clashes  for  many  years  and 
had  revived  the  dormant  Shatt  al  Arab  waterway  dispute  in  1979. 
Iraq  claimed  the  200-kilometer  channel  up  to  the  Iranian  shore  as 
its  territory,  while  Iran  insisted  that  the  thalweg — a  line  running 
down  the  middle  of  the  waterway — negotiated  last  in  1975,  was 
the  official  border.  The  Iraqis,  especially  the  Baath  leadership, 
regarded  the  1975  treaty  as  merely  a  truce,  not  a  definitive  set- 
tlement. 

The  Iraqis  also  perceived  revolutionary  Iran's  Islamic  agenda 
as  threatening  to  their  pan-Arabism.  Khomeini,  bitter  over  his 
expulsion  from  Iraq  in  1977  after  fifteen  years  in  An  Najaf,  vowed 
to  avenge  Shia  victims  of  Baathist  repression.  Baghdad  became 
more  confident,  however,  as  it  watched  the  once  invincible  Imperial 
Iranian  Army  disintegrate,  as  most  of  its  highest  ranking  officers 


232 


National  Security 


were  executed.  In  Khuzestan  (Arabistan  to  the  Iraqis),  Iraqi  intel- 
ligence officers  incited  riots  over  labor  disputes,  and  in  the  Kurd- 
ish region,  a  new  rebellion  caused  the  Khomeini  government  severe 
troubles. 

As  the  Baathists  planned  their  military  campaign,  they  had  every 
reason  to  be  confident.  Not  only  did  the  Iranians  lack  cohesive 
leadership,  but  the  Iranian  armed  forces,  according  to  Iraqi  intel- 
ligence estimates,  also  lacked  spare  parts  for  their  American-made 
equipment.  Baghdad,  on  the  other  hand,  possessed  fully  equipped 
and  trained  forces.  Morale  was  running  high.  Against  Iran's  armed 
forces,  including  the  Pasdaran  (Revolutionary  Guard)  troops,  led 
by  religious  mullahs  with  little  or  no  military  experience,  the  Iraqis 
could  muster  twelve  complete  mechanized  divisions,  equipped  with 
the  latest  Soviet  materiel.  In  addition,  the  area  across  the  Shatt 
al  Arab  posed  no  major  obstacles,  particularly  for  an  army  equipped 
with  Soviet  river-crossing  equipment.  Iraqi  commanders  correctly 
assumed  that  crossing  sites  on  the  Khardeh  and  Karun  rivers  were 
lightly  defended  against  their  mechanized  armor  divisions; 
moreover,  Iraqi  intelligence  sources  reported  that  Iranian  forces 
in  Khuzestan,  which  had  formerly  included  two  divisions  distributed 
among  Ahvaz,  Dezful,  and  Abadan,  now  consisted  of  only  a  num- 
ber of  ill-equipped  battalion- sized  formations.  Tehran  was  further 
disadvantaged  because  the  area  was  controlled  by  the  Regional  1  st 
Corps  headquartered  at  Bakhtaran  (formerly  Kermanshah), 
whereas  operational  control  was  directed  from  the  capital.  In  the 
year  following  the  shah's  overthrow,  only  a  handful  of  company- 
sized  tank  units  had  been  operative,  and  the  rest  of  the  armored 
equipment  had  been  poorly  maintained. 

For  Iraqi  planners,  the  only  uncertainty  was  the  fighting  ability 
of  the  Iranian  air  force,  equipped  with  some  of  the  most  sophisti- 
cated American-made  aircraft.  Despite  the  execution  of  key  air  force 
commanders  and  pilots,  the  Iranian  air  force  had  displayed  its  might 
during  local  riots  and  demonstrations.  The  air  force  was  also  active 
in  the  wake  of  the  failed  United  States  attempt  to  rescue  Ameri- 
can hostages  in  April  1980.  This  show  of  force  had  impressed  Iraqi 
decision  makers  to  such  an  extent  that  they  decided  to  launch  a 
massive  preemptive  air  strike  on  Iranian  air  bases  in  an  effort  similar 
to  the  one  that  Israel  employed  during  the  June  1967  Arab-Israeli 
War. 

Iraqi  Offensives,  1980-82 

On  September  22,  1980,  formations  of  Iraqi  MiG-23s  and 
MiG-21s  attacked  Iran's  air  bases  at  Mehrabad  and  Doshen- 
Tappen  (both  near  Tehran),  as  well  as  Tabriz,  Bakhtaran, 


233 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Ahvaz,  Dezful,  Urmia  (sometimes  cited  as  Urumiyeh),  Hamadan, 
Sanandaj,  and  Abadan.  Iranian  defenses  were  caught  by  surprise, 
but  the  Iraqi  raids  failed  because  Iranian  jets  were  protected  in 
specially  strengthened  hangars  and  because  bombs  designed  to 
destroy  runways  did  not  totally  incapacitate  Iran's  very  large  air- 
fields. Within  hours,  Iranian  F-4  Phantoms  took  off  from  the  same 
bases,  successfully  attacked  strategically  important  targets  close  to 
major  Iraqi  cities,  and  returned  home  with  very  few  losses. 

Concurrently  with  its  air  attack,  Iraq  ordered  six  of  its  divisions 
across  the  border  into  Iran,  where  they  drove  as  far  as  eight  kilo- 
meters inland  and  occupied  1,000  square  kilometers  of  Iranian  ter- 
ritory. As  a  diversionary  move,  a  mechanized  division  overwhelmed 
the  border  garrison  at  Qasr-e  Shirin,  while  five  armored  and 
mechanized  divisions  invaded  Khuzestan  on  two  axes,  one  cross- 
ing over  the  Shatt  al  Arab  near  Basra,  which  led  to  the  siege  and 
eventual  occupation  of  Khorramshahr,  and  the  second  heading  for 
Susangerd,  which  had  Ahvaz,  the  major  military  base  in  Khuzestan, 
as  its  objective.  In  addition,  Dehloran  and  several  other  towns  were 
targeted  and  were  rapidly  occupied  to  prevent  reinforcement  from 
Bakhtaran  and  from  Tehran.  By  mid-October,  a  full  division 
advanced  through  Khuzestan  headed  for  Khorramshahr  and 
Abadan  and  the  strategic  oil  fields  nearby  (see  fig.  14). 

Iraq's  blitz-like  assaults  against  scattered  and  demoralized  Iranian 
forces  led  many  observers  to  think  that  Baghdad  would  win  the 
war  within  a  matter  of  weeks.  Indeed,  Iraqi  troops  did  capture  the 
Shatt  al  Arab  and  did  seize  a  forty-eight-kilometer-wide  strip  of 
Iranian  territory.  But  Tehran  rejected  a  settlement  offer  and  held 
the  line  against  the  militarily  superior  Iraqi  force.  It  refused  to  accept 
defeat,  and  slowly  began  a  series  of  counteroffensives  in  January 
1981.  Iran  stopped  Iraqi  forces  on  the  Karun  River  and,  with 
limited  military  stocks,  unveiled  its  "human  wave"  assaults,  which 
used  thousands  of  Basij  (Popular  Mobilization  Army  or  People's 
Army)  volunteers.  The  recapture  of  Abadan,  Iran's  first  major  vic- 
tory, came  in  September  1981. 

Iraqi  Retreats,  1982-84 

In  March  1982,  Tehran  launched  its  Operation  Undeniable  Vic- 
tory, which  marked  a  major  turning  point,  as  Iran  penetrated  Iraq's 
"impenetrable"  lines,  split  Iraq's  forces,  and  forced  the  Iraqis  to 
retreat.  In  late  June  1982,  Baghdad  stated  its  willingness  to  negotiate 
a  settlement  of  the  war  and  to  withdraw  its  forces  from  Iran.  Iran 
refused,  and  in  July  1982  Iran  launched  Operation  Ramadan  on 
Iraqi  territory,  near  Basra.  Tehran  used  Pasdaran  forces  and  Basij 
volunteers  in  one  of  the  biggest  land  battles  since  1945.  Ranging 


234 


National  Security 


in  age  from  only  nine  to  more  than  fifty,  these  eager  but  relatively 
untrained  soldiers  swept  over  minefields  and  fortifications  to  clear 
safe  paths  for  the  tanks.  In  doing  so,  the  Iranians  sustained  an 
immense  number  of  casualties,  but  they  enabled  Iran  to  recover 
some  territory  before  the  Iraqis  could  repulse  the  bulk  of  the 
invading  forces. 

By  the  end  of  1982,  Iraq  had  been  resupplied  with  new  Soviet 
materiel,  and  the  ground  war  entered  a  new  phase.  Iraq  used  newly 
acquired  T-55  tanks  and  T-62  tanks,  BM-21  Stalin  Organ  rocket 
launchers,  and  Mi-24  helicopter  gunships  to  prepare  a  Soviet-type 
three-line  defense,  replete  with  obstacles,  minefields,  and  fortified 
positions.  The  Combat  Engineer  Corps  proved  efficient  in  con- 
structing bridges  across  water  obstacles,  in  laying  minefields,  and 
in  preparing  new  defense  lines  and  fortifications. 

In  1983  Iran  launched  three  major,  but  unsuccessful,  human- 
wave  offensives,  with  huge  losses,  along  the  frontier.  On  Febru- 
ary 6,  Tehran,  using  200,000  "last  reserve"  Pasdaran  troops, 
attacked  along  a  40-kilometer  stretch  near  Al  Amarah,  about  200 
kilometers  southeast  of  Baghdad.  Backed  by  air,  armor,  and  artil- 
lery support,  Iran's  six-division  thrust  was  strong  enough  to  break 
through.  In  response,  Baghdad  used  massive  air  attacks,  with  more 
than  200  sorties,  many  flown  by  attack  helicopters.  More  than  6,000 
Iranians  were  killed  that  day,  while  achieving  only  minute  gains. 
In  April  1983,  the  Mandali-Baghdad  north-central  sector  witnessed 
fierce  fighting,  as  repeated  Iranian  attacks  were  stopped  by  Iraqi 
mechanized  and  infantry  divisions.  Casualties  were  very  high,  and 
by  the  end  of  1983,  an  estimated  120,000  Iranians  and  60,000  Iraqis 
had  been  killed.  Despite  these  losses,  in  1983  Iran  held  a  distinct 
advantage  in  the  attempt  to  wage  and  eventually  to  win  the  war 
of  attrition. 

The  War  of  Attrition,  1984-87 

Most  foreign  military  analysts  feel  that  neither  Iraq  nor  Iran  has 
used  its  modern  equipment  efficiently.  Frequently,  sophisticated 
materiel  had  been  left  unused,  when  a  massive  modern  assault  could 
have  won  the  battle  for  either  side.  Tanks  and  armored  vehicles 
were  dug  in  and  used  as  artillery  pieces,  instead  of  being  maneu- 
vered to  lead  or  to  support  an  assault.  William  O.  Staudenmaeir, 
a  seasoned  military  analyst,  reported  that  "the  land-computing 
sights  on  the  Iraqi  tanks  [were]  seldom  used.  This  lower [ed]  the 
accuracy  of  the  T-62  tanks  to  World  War  II  standards."  In  addi- 
tion, both  sides  frequently  abandoned  heavy  equipment  in  the  battie 
zone  because  they  lacked  the  skilled  technical  personnel  needed  to 
carry  out  minor  repairs. 


235 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  14.  Initial  Iraqi  Attack  on  Iran,  1980 


Analysts  also  assert  that  the  two  states'  armies  have  shown  little 
coordination  and  that  some  units  in  the  field  have  been  left  to  fight 
largely  on  their  own.  In  this  protracted  war  of  attrition,  soldiers 
and  officers  alike  have  failed  to  display  initiative  or  professional 
expertise  in  combat.  Difficult  decisions,  which  should  have  had 
immediate  attention,  were  referred  by  section  commanders  to  the 
capitals  for  action.  Except  for  the  predictable  bursts  on  important 
anniversaries,  by  the  mid-1980s  the  war  was  stalemated. 

In  early  1984,  Iran  had  begun  Operation  Dawn  V,  which  was 
meant  to  split  the  Iraqi  3rd  Army  Corps  and  4th  Army  Corps  near 
Basra.  In  early  1984,  an  estimated  500,000  Pasdaran  and  Basij 
forces,  using  shallow  boats  or  on  foot,  moved  to  within  a  few  kilo- 
meters of  the  strategic  Basra-Baghdad  waterway.  Between  Febru- 
ary 29  and  March  1 ,  in  one  of  the  largest  battles  of  the  war,  the 


236 


National  Security 


two  armies  clashed  and  inflicted  more  than  25,000  fatalities  on  each 
other.  Without  armored  and  air  support  of  their  own,  the  Iranians 
faced  Iraqi  tanks,  mortars,  and  helicopter  gunships.  Within  a  few 
weeks,  Tehran  opened  another  front  in  the  shallow  lakes  of  the 
Hawizah  Marshes,  just  east  of  Al  Qurnah,  in  Iraq,  near  the  con- 
fluence of  the  Tigris  and  Euphrates  rivers.  Iraqi  forces,  using  Soviet- 
and  French-made  helicopter  gunships,  inflicted  heavy  casualties 
on  the  five  Iranian  brigades  (15,000  men)  in  this  Battle  of  Majnun. 

Lacking  the  equipment  to  open  secure  passages  through  Iraqi 
minefields,  and  having  too  few  tanks,  the  Iranian  command  again 
resorted  to  the  human- wave  tactic.  In  March  1984,  an  East  Euro- 
pean journalist  claimed  that  he  "saw  tens  of  thousands  of  children, 
roped  together  in  groups  of  about  twenty  to  prevent  the  faint-hearted 
from  deserting,  make  such  an  attack."  The  Iranians  made  little, 
if  any,  progress  despite  these  sacrifices.  Perhaps  as  a  result  of  this 
performance,  Tehran,  for  the  first  time,  used  a  regular  army  unit, 
the  92nd  Armored  Division,  at  the  Battie  of  the  Marshes  a  few  weeks 
later. 

Within  a  four- week  period  between  February  and  March  1984, 
the  Iraqis  reportedly  killed  40,000  Iranians  and  lost  9,000  of  their 
own  men,  but  even  this  was  deemed  an  unacceptable  ratio,  and 
in  February  the  Iraqi  command  ordered  the  use  of  chemical 
weapons.  Despite  repeated  Iraqi  denials,  between  May  1981  and 
March  1984,  Iran  charged  Iraq  with  forty  uses  of  chemical  weapons. 
The  year  1984  closed  with  part  of  the  Majnun  Islands  and  a  few 
pockets  of  Iraqi  territory  in  Iranian  hands.  Casualties  notwithstand- 
ing, Tehran  had  maintained  its  military  posture,  while  Baghdad 
was  reevaluating  its  overall  strategy. 

The  major  development  in  1985  was  the  increased  targeting  of 
population  centers  and  industrial  facilities  by  both  combatants.  In 
May  Iraq  began  aircraft  attacks,  long-range  artillery  attacks,  and 
surface-to-surface  missile  attacks  on  Tehran  and  on  other  major 
Iranian  cities.  Between  August  and  November,  Iraq  raided  Khark 
Island  forty-four  times  in  a  futile  attempt  to  destroy  its  installa- 
tions. Iran  responded  with  its  own  air  raids  and  missile  attacks  on 
Baghdad  and  other  Iraqi  towns.  In  addition,  Tehran  systematized 
its  periodic  stop-and-search  operations,  which  were  conducted  to 
verify  the  cargo  contents  of  ships  in  the  Persian  Gulf  and  to  seize 
war  materiel  destined  for  Iraq. 

The  only  major  ground  offensive,  involving  an  estimated  60,000 
Iranian  troops,  occurred  in  March  1985  near  Basra;  once  again, 
the  assault  proved  inconclusive  except  for  heavy  casualties.  In  1986, 
however,  Iraq  suffered  a  major  loss  in  the  southern  region.  On 
February  9,  Iran  launched  a  successful  surprise  amphibious  assault 


237 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

across  the  Shatt  al  Arab  and  captured  the  abandoned  Iraqi  oil  port 
of  Al  Faw.  The  occupation  of  Al  Faw,  a  logistical  feat,  involved 
30,000  regular  Iranian  soldiers  who  rapidly  entrenched  themselves. 
Saddam  Husayn  vowed  to  eliminate  the  bridgehead  "at  all  costs," 
and  in  April  1988  the  Iraqis  succeeded  in  regaining  the  Al  Faw 
Peninsula. 

Late  in  March  1986,  the  UN  secretary  general,  Javier  Perez  de 
Cuellar,  formally  accused  Iraq  of  using  chemical  weapons  against 
Iran.  Citing  the  report  of  four  chemical  warfare  experts  whom  the 
UN  had  sent  to  Iran  in  February  and  March  1986,  the  secretary 
general  called  on  Baghdad  to  end  its  violation  of  the  1925  Geneva 
Protocol  on  the  use  of  chemical  weapons.  The  UN  report  concluded 
that  Iraqi  forces  had  used  chemical  warfare  against  Iranian  forces; 
the  weapons  used  included  both  mustard  gas  and  nerve  gas.  The 
report  further  stated  that  the  use  of  chemical  weapons  appeared 
to  be  more  extensive  in  1981  than  in  1984.  Iraq  attempted  to  deny 
using  chemicals,  but  the  evidence,  in  the  form  of  many  badly  burned 
casualties  flown  to  European  hospitals  for  treatment,  was  over- 
whelming. According  to  a  British  representative  at  the  Conference 
on  Disarmament  in  Geneva  in  July  1986,  Iraqi  chemical  warfare 
was  responsible  for  about  10,000  casualties.  In  March  1988,  Iraq 
was  again  charged  with  a  major  use  of  chemical  warfare  while  retak- 
ing Halabjah,  a  Kurdish  town  in  northeastern  Iraq,  near  the  Iranian 
border. 

Unable  in  1986,  however,  to  dislodge  the  Iranians  from  Al  Faw, 
the  Iraqis  went  on  the  offensive;  they  captured  the  city  of  Mehran 
in  May,  only  to  lose  it  in  July  1986.  The  rest  of  1986  witnessed 
small  hit-and-run  attacks  by  both  sides,  while  the  Iranians  massed 
almost  500,000  troops  for  another  promised  "final  offensive,"  which 
did  not  occur.  But  the  Iraqis,  perhaps  for  the  first  time  since  the 
outbreak  of  hostilities,  began  a  concerted  air-strike  campaign  in 
July.  Heavy  attacks  on  Khark  Island  forced  Iran  to  rely  on 
makeshift  installations  farther  south  in  the  Gulf  at  Sirri  Island  and 
Larak  Island.  Thereupon,  Iraqi  jets,  refueling  in  midair  or  using 
a  Saudi  military  base,  hit  Sirri  and  Larak.  The  two  belligerents 
also  attacked  111  neutral  ships  in  the  Gulf  in  1986. 

Meanwhile,  to  help  defend  itself,  Iraq  had  built  impressive  for- 
tifications along  the  1,200-kilometer  war  front.  Iraq  devoted  par- 
ticular attention  to  the  southern  city  of  Basra,  where  concrete-roofed 
bunkers,  tank-  and  artillery-firing  positions,  minefields,  and 
stretches  of  barbed  wire,  all  shielded  by  an  artificially  flooded  lake 
30  kilometers  long  and  1 ,800  meters  wide,  were  constructed.  Most 
visitors  to  the  area  acknowledged  Iraq's  effective  use  of  combat 
engineering  to  erect  these  barriers. 


238 


Iraqi  tank  outside  Khorramshahr,  Iran,  October  1980 

Courtesy  Photri/Lehtikuva 


239 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

On  December  24,  1986,  Iran  began  another  assault  on  the  Basra 
region.  This  annual  "final  offensive"  resulted  in  more  than  40,000 
dead  by  mid-January  1987.  Although  the  Iranian  push  came  close 
to  breaking  Iraq's  last  line  of  defense  east  of  Basra,  Tehran  was 
unable  to  score  the  decisive  breakthrough  required  to  win  outright 
victory,  or  even  to  secure  relative  gains  over  Iraq". 

The  Tanker  War,  1984-87 

Naval  operations  came  to  a  halt,  presumably  because  Iraq  and 
Iran  had  lost  many  of  their  ships,  by  early  1981;  the  lull  in  the 
fighting  lasted  for  two  years.  In  March  1984,  Iraq  initiated  sus- 
tained naval  operations  in  its  self-declared  1,126-kilometer  mari- 
time exclusion  zone,  extending  from  the  mouth  of  the  Shatt  al  Arab 
to  Iran's  port  of  Bushehr.  In  1981  Baghdad  had  attacked  Iranian 
ports  and  oil  complexes  as  well  as  neutral  tankers  and  ships  sailing 
to  and  from  Iran;  in  1984  Iraq  expanded  the  so-called  tanker  war 
by  using  French  Super- Etendard  combat  aircraft  armed  with  Exocet 
missiles.  Neutral  merchant  ships  became  favorite  targets,  and  the 
long-range  Super-Etendards  flew  sorties  farther  south.  Seventy- 
one  merchant  ships  were  attacked  in  1984  alone,  compared  with 
forty-eight  in  the  first  three  years  of  the  war.  Iraq's  motives  in 
increasing  the  tempo  included  a  desire  to  break  the  stalemate, 
presumably  by  cutting  off  Iran's  oil  exports  and  by  thus  forcing 
Tehran  to  the  negotiating  table.  Repeated  Iraqi  efforts  failed  to 
put  Iran's  main  oil  exporting  terminal  at  Khark  Island  out  of  com- 
mission, however.  Iran  retaliated  by  attacking  first  a  Kuwaiti  oil 
tanker  near  Bahrain  on  May  1 3  and  then  a  Saudi  tanker  in  Saudi 
waters  five  days  later,  making  it  clear  that  if  Iraq  continued  to  inter- 
fere with  Iran's  shipping,  no  Gulf  state  would  be  safe. 

These  sustained  attacks  cut  Iranian  oil  exports  in  half,  reduced 
shipping  in  the  Gulf  by  25  percent,  led  Lloyd's  of  London  to 
increase  its  insurance  rates  on  tankers,  and  slowed  Gulf  oil  sup- 
plies to  the  rest  of  the  world;  moreover,  the  Saudi  decision  in  1984 
to  shoot  down  an  Iranian  Phantom  jet  intruding  over  Saudi  ter- 
ritorial waters  played  an  important  role  in  ending  both  belliger- 
ents' attempts  to  internationalize  the  tanker  war.  Iraq  and  Iran 
accepted  a  1984  UN-sponsored  moratorium  on  the  shelling  of 
civilian  targets,  and  Tehran  later  proposed  an  extension  of  the 
moratorium  to  include  Gulf  shipping,  a  proposal  the  Iraqis  rejected 
unless  it  were  to  include  their  own  Gulf  ports. 

Iraq  began  ignoring  the  moratorium  soon  after  it  went  into  effect 
and  stepped  up  its  air  raids  on  tankers  serving  Iran  and  Iranian 
oil-exporting  facilities  in  1986  and  1987,  attacking  even  vessels  that 
belonged  to  the  conservative  Arab  states  of  the  Persian  Gulf.  Iran 


240 


National  Security 


responded  by  escalating  its  attacks  on  shipping  serving  Arab  ports 
in  the  Gulf.  As  Kuwaiti  vessels  made  up  a  large  portion  of  the  targets 
in  these  retaliatory  raids,  the  Kuwaiti  government  sought  protec- 
tion from  the  international  community  in  the  fall  of  1986.  The  Soviet 
Union  responded  first,  agreeing  to  charter  several  Soviet  tankers 
to  Kuwait  in  early  1987.  Washington,  which  had  been  approached 
first  by  Kuwait  and  which  had  postponed  its  decision,  eventually 
followed  Moscow's  lead.  United  States  involvement  was  sealed  by 
the  May  17,  1987,  Iraqi  missile  attack  on  the  USS  Stark,  in  which 
thirty-seven  crew  members  were  killed.  Baghdad  apologized  and 
claimed  that  the  attack  was  a  mistake.  Ironically,  Washington  used 
the  Stark  incident  to  blame  Iran  for  escalating  the  war  and  sent  its 
own  ships  to  the  Gulf  to  escort  eleven  Kuwaiti  tankers  that  were 
"reflagged"  with  the  American  flag  and  had  American  crews.  Iran 
refrained  from  attacking  the  United  States  naval  force  directly,  but 
it  used  various  forms  of  harassment,  including  mines,  hit-and-run 
attacks  by  small  patrol  boats,  and  periodic  stop-and-search  opera- 
tions. On  several  occasions,  Tehran  fired  its  Chinese-made  Silk- 
worm missiles  on  Kuwait  from  Al  Faw  Peninsula.  When  Iranian 
forces  hit  the  reflagged  tanker  Sea  Isle  City  in  October  1987,  Wash- 
ington retaliated  by  destroying  an  oil  platform  in  the  Rostam  field 
and  by  using  the  United  States  Navy's  Sea,  Air,  and  Land  (SEAL) 
commandos  to  blow  up  a  second  one  nearby. 

Within  a  few  weeks  of  the  Stark  incident,  Iraq  resumed  its  raids 
on  tankers  but  moved  its  attacks  farther  south,  near  the  Strait  of 
Hormuz.  Washington  played  a  central  role  in  framing  UN  Secu- 
rity Council  Resolution  598  on  the  Gulf  war,  passed  unanimously 
on  July  20;  Western  attempts  to  isolate  Iran  were  frustrated, 
however,  when  Tehran  rejected  the  resolution  because  it  did  not 
meet  its  requirement  that  Iraq  should  be  punished  for  initiating 
the  conflict. 

In  early  1988,  the  Gulf  was  a  crowded  theater  of  operations.  At 
least  ten  Western  navies  and  eight  regional  navies  were  patrolling 
the  area,  the  site  of  weekly  incidents  in  which  merchant  vessels  were 
crippled.  The  Arab  Ship  Repair  Yard  in  Bahrain  and  its  counter- 
part in  Dubayy,  United  Arab  Emirates  (UAE),  were  unable  to  keep 
up  with  the  repairs  needed  by  the  ships  damaged  in  these  attacks. 

Armed  Forces  and  Society 

Status  in  National  Life 

In  modern  Iraq,  the  armed  forces  have  intervened  in  the  politi- 
cal life  of  the  state.  Military  interventions  were  concentrated  in 
two  periods,  the  first  from  1936  to  1941,  when  there  were  seven 


241 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

coups  d'etat,  and  the  second  between  1958  and  1968,  when  there 
were  five  military  seizures  of  power.  Because  Iraq  had  a  highly 
developed  military  institution  and  chronically  weak  civilian  regimes, 
the  armed  forces  felt  that  they  alone  were  capable  of  providing  strong 
and  stable  governments;  however,  personal  and  ideological  faction- 
alization  within  the  armed  forces  fostered  heightened  instability  and 
a  cycle  of  coups  that  culminated  in  the  Baathist  takeover  on  July  17, 
1968. 

As  the  leadership  in  the  previous  military  regime  became  increas- 
ingly fragmented  and  weak,  and  as  resistance  movements  grew, 
Baathist  officers,  intending  to  end  the  cycle  of  military  interven- 
tion in  the  government,  carried  out  a  coup.  Baath  Party  officials 
believed  the  Iraqi  Communist  Party  (ICP)  and  various  Kurdish 
movements  were  using  the  military  as  a  vehicle  to  promote  their 
own  interests.  Consequently,  the  Baath  decided  to  weaken  the  mili- 
tary's political  power  gradually  and  to  turn  the  army  into  a  loyal 
and  strong  defensive  force.  Accordingly,  they  steadily  reduced  mili- 
tary participation  in  the  Revolutionary  Command  Council  (RCC); 
whereas  the  five-member  1968  RCC  was  composed  exclusively  of 
military  men,  only  three  of  the  RCC's  twenty- two  members  in  1978 
were  active-duty  officers. 

To  transform  the  military  into  an  ideological  army  (Al  Jaysh  al 
Aqidi),  the  Baath  undertook  purges  of  the  armed  forces  and  granted 
military  posts  to  civilians.  They  also  tried  to  "purify"  the  armed 
forces  by  providing  propaganda  pamphlets  and  indoctrination 
lectures. 

To  institutionalize  its  control  of  the  army,  the  Baath  Party 
adopted  an  eclectic  strategy.  First,  it  restricted  admission  to  mili- 
tary colleges  and  institutions  to  members  of  the  Baath  Party.  Those 
accepted  could  expect  generous  financial  rewards  if  they  remained 
loyal,  but,  if  they  did  not,  they  could  expect  the  death  penalty. 
Second,  discrimination,  in  recruitment  and  in  promotion,  on  reli- 
gious and  nationality  grounds  was  intensified.  At  one  point  in  1979, 
all  senior  posts  were  restricted  to  officers  related  to  Saddam  Husayn 
or  to  other  individuals  from  Tikrit. 

The  Ideological  Army  advocated  national  socialism,  and  the  Baath 
Party  used  the  army  to  fulfill  Baath  objectives.  By  1980  the  Ideo- 
logical Army  was  an  organized,  modern  force  capable  of  rapid  move- 
ment and  had  been  strengthened  by  an  overwhelming  feeling  of 
historical  responsibility.  The  officers  were  firmly  convinced  that  theirs 
was  an  elite  role,  that  of  the  leading  patriotic  force  in  Iraqi  society, 
and  they,  too,  were  inspired  to  carry  out  the  national  "historical 
mission."  In  short,  the  Baathization  of  the  armed  forces,  based 
on  an  indoctrination  in  national  socialism,  in  reliance  on  force, 


242 


Iraqi  units  at  Khorramshahr,  Iran,  October  1980 
Courtesy  Photri/Lehtikuva 

and  in  a  vision  of  this  historical  mission,  completed  the  emergence 
of  the  new  army  as  a  national  force. 

During  the  1970s,  military  officers  unsuccessfully  attempted  to 
overthrow  the  Baathist  regime,  however,  on  at  least  two  occasions. 
In  January  1970,  an  attempted  coup  led  by  two  retired  officers, 
Major  General  Abd  al  Ghani  ar  Rawi  and  Colonel  Salih  Mahdi 
as  Samarrai,  was  discovered  and  thwarted  as  the  conspirators 
entered  the  Republican  Palace.  In  June  1973,  a  plot  by  Nazim 
Kazzar,  a  Shia  and  the  director  of  internal  security,  to  assassinate 
President  Ahmad  Hasan  al  Bakr  and  Saddam  Husayn  was  foiled. 
Kazzar,  who  resented  both  Sunni  and  Tikriti  domination  of  the 
Baath  Party,  had  taken  a  prominent  part  in  organizing  the  mas- 
sacre of  communists  in  the  anarchy  that  followed  the  military's  sei- 
zure of  power  in  February  1963.  He  had  acquired  a  reputation 
as  a  torturer,  and  the  old  palace  that  he  had  taken  over  as  head- 
quarters was  known  as  "Qasr  an  Nihayah,"  the  "Palace  of  the 
End. ' '  Few  who  entered  ever  came  out,  nor  did  their  bodies  receive 
public  burial.  When  his  coup  plans  failed,  Kazzar  fled  toward  the 
Iranian  border.  Before  being  apprehended,  he  killed  the  minister 
of  defense,  Hammad  Shihab,  who  happened  to  be  in  the  area 
inspecting  border  posts.  Shortly  afterward  he  was  executed.  Both 
coup  attempts  were  followed  by  summary  trials,  executions,  and 
purges  of  the  armed  forces. 


243 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Although  rumors  about  foiled  coup  attempts  have  circulated  peri- 
odically, the  most  serious  attempt  to  assassinate  Saddam  Husayn 
reportedly  occurred  in  1982,  after  both  a  military  defeat  on  the 
battlefield  and  an  erosion  in  the  economy.  On  July  11,  1982,  the 
presidential  party  was  traveling  through  the  mixed  Shia-Sunni  vil- 
lage of  Ad  Dujayl,  about  sixty  kilometers  northeast  of  Baghdad, 
when  it  was  surrounded  by  Shia  villagers  and  held  for  several  hours 
before  it  was  rescued  by  the  army.  Subsequent  reports  revealed 
that  a  number  of  Saddam's  bodyguards  and  of  the  villagers  were 
killed.  As  punishment,  the  Baath  government  deported  the  villagers 
to  Iran  and  razed  their  houses. 

The  Sociology  of  the  Military 

The  armed  forces  in  1988  conceivably  could  have  been  expected 
to  reflect  the  varied  ethnic,  religious,  and  class  components  of  Iraqi 
society,  because  universal  male  conscription  has  been  compulsory 
since  1934.  To  a  certain  extent  the  enlisted  men  did  reflect  society, 
especially  after  seven  years  of  war.  Indeed,  for  the  purpose  of  unify- 
ing the  diverse  minority  groups  in  this  extremely  heterogeneous 
country,  the  armed  forces  was  one  of  the  most  important  institu- 
tions in  Iraq.  For  political  reasons,  this  unification  was  never  fully 
accomplished,  however.  Selective  recruitment  policies  for  the  Mili- 
tary College,  for  example,  were  instituted  by  the  British  in  the  1920s 
to  favor  the  Sunni  Arab  community,  and  this  bias  was  perpetuated 
by  the  Sunni  political  and  military  elite,  which  has  also  tended  to 
dominate  the  Baath  Party.  The  Shia  majority  was  represented  in 
the  officer  corps,  but  in  a  proportion  far  below  that  of  their  numeri- 
cal presence  in  society. 

The  majority  of  the  officers  were  of  lower  middle  class  urban 
background;  they  were  the  sons  of  minor  government  officials  and 
small  traders,  for  whom  a  career  in  the  military  promised  consider- 
able social  advancement.  Family  ties  to  officers  also  played  an 
important  role  in  the  recruitment  of  new  personnel,  and  in  the 
mid-1980s,  Iraq's  top  military  commanders  were  from  the  small 
town  of  Tikrit  on  the  Euphrates  River  in  the  heart  of  Iraq's  Sunni 
Arab  community. 

The  Defense  Burden 

Military  expenditures  before  1980  fluctuated  between  15  and  21 
percent  of  the  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary).  In  1975, 
for  example,  Iraq  allocated  to  its  defense  budget  an  estimated  US$3 
billion,  representing  17.4  percent  of  GNP,  whereas  in  1979,  military 
expenditures  were  estimated  at  US$6.4  billion,  or  14.9  percent  of 
GNP.  After  1980,  however,  defense  expenditures  skyrocketed, 


244 


National  Security 


exceeding  50  percent  of  GNP  by  1982.  The  1986  military  budget 
was  estimated  at  US$11.58  billion. 

The  war's  staggering  financial  and  economic  costs  have  proved 
to  be  more  severe  than  anticipated,  and,  because  of  them,  most 
large-scale  infrastructure  development  projects  have  been  halted. 
In  1980  Iraqi  revenues  from  oil  exports  amounted  to  US$20  bil- 
lion, which,  when  added  to  Iraq's  estimated  US$35  billion  in  for- 
eign exchange  reserves,  permitted  the  country  to  sustain  rapid 
increases  in  military  expenditures.  By  1984,  however,  oil  revenues 
were  so  low  that  Iraq  sought  loans  from  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Coun- 
cil (GCC)  states  and  from  its  foreign  creditors.  In  1986  annual  oil 
revenues  were  estimated  at  US$5  to  US$8  billion,  whereas  the  war 
cost  between  US$600  million  and  US$1  billion  per  month.  Mili- 
tary and  financial  experts  estimated  that  by  the  end  of  1987,  Iraq 
had  exhausted  its  US$35  billion  reserves,  and  had  incurred  an 
additional  US$40  to  US$85  billion  debt.  Most  of  the  money  (US$30 
to  US$60  billion)  came  from  GCC  members,  particularly  Saudi 
Arabia  and  Kuwait,  which,  some  experts  believed,  may  not  demand 
repayment.  The  Baathist  regime  adopted  a  strategy  of  "guns  and 
butter,"  trying  to  absorb  the  economic  shock  of  the  war  without 
imposing  undue  hardships  on  the  population.  Through  a  subsidy 
program,  the  government  continued  to  provide  ample  food  and 
basic  necessities  to  the  population.  The  policy  succeeded,  but  it 
also  mortgaged  the  state's  future.  In  early  1988,  as  the  war  dragged 
on  and  as  military  expenditures  rose,  it  was  difficult  to  ascertain 
whether  this  strategy  could  be  sustained  (see  Introduction). 

The  Impact  of  Casualties  on  the  Armed  Forces 

Casualty  figures  in  the  Iran-Iraq  War  could  not  be  estimated 
accurately  because  neither  belligerent  permitted  independent 
observers  to  assist  in  verifying  records,  and  both  belligerents  rarely 
allowed  foreign  observers  to  visit  combat  areas.  At  the  end  of  1986, 
the  most  frequently  cited  estimate  of  casualties  since  September 
1980  was  about  1  million— 350,000  dead  and  650,000  wounded. 
According  to  this  estimate,  250,000  Iranians  and  100,000  Iraqis 
had  been  killed,  while  500,000  Iranians  and  150,000  Iraqis  had 
been  wounded.  These  estimates  were  probably  conservative. 
Another  reliable  source  claimed  that  the  combined  death  toll  was 
between  600,000  and  800,000.  In  1987,  the  Iraqi  minister  of  defense 
reported  that  as  many  as  1  million  Iranians  had  been  killed  and 
almost  3  million  had  been  wounded,  but  this  was  impossible  to 
verify.  During  large  offensives,  reports  indicated  that  casualty 


245 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


figures  ranged  between  10,000  and  40,000,  primarily  because  of 
Iran's  "human  wave"  tactics.  The  impact  of  this  loss  of  life  on 
both  societies  was  immense  as  was  that  of  the  high  number  of 
prisoners  of  war  (POWs).  The  Geneva-based  International  Com- 
mittee of  the  Red  Cross  estimated  the  number  of  POWs  at  nearly 
50,000  Iraqis  and  10,000  Iranians  in  early  1988. 

For  Iraq,  the  most  damaging  social  repercussion  in  1988  was 
the  knowledge  that  the  toll  in  casualties  would  continue  to  increase. 
Drafting  young  men,  and  at  times  women,  from  school  and  from 
work  became  unpopular,  and  the  loss  of  young  life  weakened  the 
regime.  This  human  drain  also  created  shortages  in  the  labor  force. 
These  shortages  forced  an  integration  of  women  into  the  work  force, 
a  move  that  further  disrupted  Iraq's  traditional  social  environment. 

The  war  also  forced  cutbacks  in  Iraq's  economic  development, 
and  it  wiped  out  the  relative  prosperity  of  the  late  1970s.  Individuals 
were  pressured  to  donate  savings  and  gold  holdings  to  the  war  ef- 
fort. Experts  believed  in  1988  that  these  hardships,  endured  from 
1980  onward,  would  gradually  erode  what  social  cohesion  and 
progress  had  been  achieved  over  the  previous  decade,  should  the 
war  continue  for  a  few  more  years. 

Opposition  to  the  war  continued  to  grow.  There  were  sporadic 
attempts  on  the  lives  of  military  officers,  and  especially  on  the  lives 
of  Saddam  Husayn's  relatives.  As  funerals  in  every  neighborhood 
reminded  the  masses  of  the  realities  they  faced,  Iraqi  morale  con- 
tinued to  diminish. 

Treatment  of  Veterans  and  Widows 

The  regime,  at  least  initially,  provided  substantial  sums  of  money 
to  the  families  of  war  "heroes."  Parents  received,  as  a  lump  pay- 
ment, enough  for  a  car,  a  piece  of  land,  and  a  new  house.  In  addi- 
tion, a  victim's  brother  was  assigned  a  monthly  pension  of 
ID500 — which  was  equivalent  in  purchasing  power  to  somewhat 
less  than  the  same  amount  in  US  dollars  in  1987 — and  his  sister, 
in  keeping  with  "Iraqi  tradition,"  received  a  pension  of  half  that 
amount.  A  widow  and  surviving  children  also  received  monthly 
pensions,  in  addition  to  a  guarantee  of  free  university  education 
for  the  children. 

The  government  reduced  its  benefits  packages  in  1 985 ,  especially 
after  revenues  declined.  Survivors  of  a  soldier  killed  in  battle  con- 
tinued to  receive  the  equivalent  of  US$10,000,  and  veterans  received 
monthly  pensions  equivalent  to  US$500,  but  women  whose  hus- 
bands and  sons  were  away  fighting  found  it  increasingly  difficult 
to  make  ends  meet. 


246 


Iraqi  soldiers  at  Qasr-e  Shirin,  Iran,  June  1981 
Courtesy  Photri/Lehtikuva 

Internal  Security 

Internal  Developments  and  Security 

In  maintaining  internal  security,  the  Baath  regime  focused  on 
three  main  sources  of  opposition — the  Kurds,  living  primarily  near 
the  borders  of  Iran  and  Turkey,  the  ICP  and  its  splinter  factions, 
and  Shia  revival  movements  not  in  sympathy  with  Baath  social- 
ism. In  dealing  with  these  groups,  the  government  tended  either 
to  provide  them  with  benefits  so  as  to  coopt  them  into  the  regime, 
or  to  take  repressive  measures  against  them. 

The  Kurdish  Problem 

The  Kurdish  minority  offered  the  most  persistent  and  militarily 
effective  security  threat  of  Iraq's  modern  history  (see  People,  ch.  2). 
Although  the  Kurds  had  traditionally  opposed  any  central  govern- 
ments in  both  Iran  and  Iraq,  most  Kurdish  leaders  initially  saw 
the  1979  Islamic  Revolution  in  Iran  as  a  possible  vehicle  for  promot- 
ing Kurdish  aspirations  toward  self-government.  The  Iranian 
government's  antiminority  attitude,  however,  along  with  Iraq's 
attempts  to  support  the  Iranian  Kurdish  Democratic  Party  (KDP), 
dashed  all  hopes  for  a  unified  Kurdish  independent  state.  The  Iraqi 
and  Iranian  regimes  each  chose  to  support  a  Kurdish  faction  oppos- 
ing the  other's  government,  and  this  intervention  divided  the  Kurds 


247 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

along  "national"  lines.  As  a  result,  during  the  1980s  Kurds  in  Iraq 
tended  to  hope  for  an  Iranian  victory  in  the  Iran-Iraq  War,  while 
a  number  of  Kurds  in  Iran  thought  that  an  Iraqi  victory  would 
best  promote  their  own  aspirations.  Because  most  Kurds  were  Sunni 
Muslims,  however,  their  enthusiasm  for  a  Shia  government  in  either 
country  was  somewhat  limited. 

Following  the  outbreak  of  hostilities  and  the  ensuing  stalemate 
in  the  Iran-Iraq  War,  Kurdish  opponents  of  the  Iraqi  regime  revived 
their  armed  struggle  against  Baghdad.  In  response  to  deportations, 
executions,  and  other  atrocities  allegedly  perpetrated  by  the  Baath, 
the  Kurds  seemed  in  the  1980s  to  have  renewed  their  political  con- 
sciousness, albeit  in  a  very  limited  way.  Differences  between  the 
brothers  Masud  and  Idris  Barzani,  who  led  the  KDP,  and  Jalal 
Talabani,  leader  of  the  Iraqi-supported  Patriotic  Union  of  Kur- 
distan (PUK),  as  well  as  the  Kurdish  leadership's  periodic  shifts 
into  progovernment  and  antigovernment  alliances,  benefited  Bagh- 
dad, which  could  manipulate  opposing  factions.  What  the  Iraqi 
government  could  not  afford,  however,  was  to  risk  the  opening  of 
a  second  hostile  front  in  Kurdistan  as  long  as  it  was  bogged  down 
in  its  war  with  Iran.  Throughout  the  1980s,  therefore,  Baghdad 
tolerated  the  growing  strength  of  the  Kurdish  resistance,  which, 
despite  shortcomings  in  its  leadership,  continued  its  long  struggle 
for  independence. 

The  Iraqi  Communists  and  Baathist  Iraq 

The  Iraqi  Communist  Party  (ICP)  has  seen  its  fortunes  rise  and 
fall  repeatedly  since  its  founding  by  Yusuf  Salman  Yusuf  (known 
as  Comrade  Fahd,  or  the  Leopard)  in  1934.  During  the  next  fifty 
years,  the  party's  fortunes  fluctuated  with  the  successes  of  particu- 
lar regimes  in  Baghdad.  Although  the  ICP  was  legalized  in  1937, 
and  again  in  1973,  the  Baath  Party  regularly  suppressed  it  after 
1963  and  outlawed  it  altogether  in  1985  (see  Political  Opposition, 
ch.  4). 

In  general,  Iraqis  rejected  communism  as  contrary  to  both  Islam 
and  Arab  nationalism.  Yet,  the  clandestine  ICP  survived  under 
the  repressive  policies  of  the  monarchy,  which  had  determined  that 
because  of  its  widespread  appeal,  the  dissemination  of  communist 
theory  among  the  armed  forces  or  the  police  could  be  punished 
with  death  or  with  penal  servitude  for  life.  This  persecution  under 
the  Hashimite  monarchy  raised  communists  to  a  status  near  that 
of  martyrs  in  the  eyes  of  the  antimonarchical  postrevolutionary  lead- 
ers plotting  the  1958  uprising.  Ironically,  the  ICP  was  able  to  use 
the  army  to  promote  its  goals  and  to  organize  opposition  to  the 
monarchy.  In  August  1949,  for  example,  one  of  the  army  units 


248 


National  Security 


returning  from  Palestine  smuggled  in  a  stencil  printing  machine 
for  the  ICP. 

Between  1958  and  1963,  the  ICP  became  closely  aligned  with 
the  Qasim  regime,  which  used  the  communist  militia  organization 
to  suppress  its  traditional  opponents  brutally  (see  Republican  Iraq, 
ch.  1).  By  1963  Qasim's  former  allies,  except  the  ICP,  had  all 
deserted  him.  When  he  was  overthrown  in  February  1963,  the  new 
Baathist  leaders  carried  out  a  massive  purge  in  which  thousands 
of  communists  were  executed  for  supporting  the  hated  Qasim.  Sur- 
vivors fled  to  the  relatively  isolated  mountainous  regions  of  Kur- 
distan. This  first  Baathist  rise  to  power  was  short-lived,  however, 
and  under  Abd  as  Salam  Arif  (1963-66)  and  his  brother,  Abd  ar 
Rahman  Arif  (1966-68),  both  ICP  and  Baath  cadre  members  were 
suppressed,  largely  because  of  their  close  connections  with  the  Com- 
munist Party  of  Egypt  and,  in  turn,  the  Communist  Party  of  the 
Soviet  Union.  Although  the  Baath  hierarchy  had  earlier  perceived 
the  ICP  as  a  Soviet  arm  ready  to  interfere  in  internal  affairs,  after 
the  successful  1968  coup  d'etat,  Baath  leaders  joined  ICP  officials 
in  calling  for  a  reconciliation  of  their  decade-long  rivalry. 

This  reconciliation  was  short-lived,  however,  and  in  May  1978 
Baghdad  announced  the  execution  of  twenty-one  ICP  members, 
allegedly  for  organizing  party  cells  within  the  armed  forces.  For- 
eign observers  contended  that  the  executions,  which  took  place  long 
after  the  alleged  crimes  were  committed,  were  calculated  to  show 
that  the  Baath  would  not  tolerate  communist  penetration  of  the 
armed  forces  with  the  ultimate  aim  of  seizing  control,  probably 
with  Soviet  assistance.  Attempts  to  organize  new  communist  cells 
within  the  armed  forces  were  crushed,  as  the  government  argued 
that  according  to  the  1973  agreement  creating  the  Progressive 
National  Front  (PNF),  only  the  Baath  Party  could  organize  politi- 
cal activities  within  the  military  (see  The  Politics  of  Alliance:  The 
Progressive  National  Front,  ch.  4).  Unverified  reports  suggested 
that  several  hundred  members  of  the  armed  forces  were  questioned 
at  that  time  concerning  their  possible  complicity  in  what  was 
described  as  a  plot  to  replace  Baath  leaders  with  military  officers 
more  sympathetic  to  the  Soviet  Union. 

Despite  several  decades  of  arrests,  imprisonments,  repression, 
assassinations,  and  exile,  in  the  late  1980s  the  ICP  remained  a  credi- 
ble force  and  a  constant  threat  to  the  Baath  leadership.  After  the 
outbreak  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War  in  1980,  the  ICP  came  to  depend 
heavily  on  outside  support  for  its  survival.  Syria,  for  example, 
provided  material  support  to  the  ICP's  struggle  against  the  Sad- 
dam Husayn  regime,  and  the  Syrian  Communist  Party  cooperated 
with  the  ICP  in  strongly  condemning  the  war  with  Iran. 


249 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

In  addition  to  relying  more  heavily  on  outside  financial  and  moral 
support,  the  ICP  initiated  significant  structural  and  ideological 
changes  in  the  1980s.  Four  Arab  leaders  (two  Shias,  two  Sunnis) 
were  dropped  from  the  Politburo,  and  four  Central  Committee 
members  were  reportedly  expelled  from  the  party  in  1984.  Although 
the  reasons  for  these  changes  were  not  clear,  observers  speculated 
at  the  time  that  party  boss  Aziz  Muhammad  and  his  Kurdish  com- 
patriots had  gained  control  of  the  ICP  and  that  Kurdish  interests 
therefore  outweighed  national  interests.  Muhammad's  tenacity  in 
supporting  the  armed  struggle  of  Iraqi  Kurds  and  in  totally  oppos- 
ing the  Iran-Iraq  War  helped  to  bring  about  a  split  in  the  ICP 
leadership.  His  keynote  address  to  the  1985  Fourth  Party  Congress 
analyzed  in  detail  the  course  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War;  he  assigned  par- 
tial responsibility  for  the  war  to  Iran,  but  he  blamed  the  Baath 
government  in  Baghdad  for  prolonging  the  conflict.  In  September 
1986,  the  ICP  declared  the  communists'  fight  against  the  Baath 
regime  to  be  inextricably  linked  to  the  achievement  of  peace  between 
Iraq  and  Iran.  A  1986  joint  statement  of  the  Tudeh  (the  Tudeh 
Party  being  the  leading  Marxist  party  of  Iran)  and  the  ICP  called 
for  an  end  to  the  war  and  for  establishment  of  "a  just  democratic 
peace  with  no  annexations  whatsoever,  on  the  basis  of  respect  for 
the  two  countries'  state  borders  at  the  start  of  the  war,  each  peo- 
ple's national  sovereignty  over  its  territory,  and  endorsing  each 
people's  right  to  determine  the  sociopolitical  system  they  desire." 

Reliable  data  on  ICP  membership  were  unavailable  in  early  1988. 
One  1984  estimate  was  2,000  members,  but  other  foreign  sources 
indicated  a  considerably  larger  ICP  membership.  Because  it  was 
a  clandestine  party  fighting  for  the  overthrow  of  the  Baathist  regime, 
the  ICP's  true  membership  strength  may  never  be  known,  espe- 
cially because  it  directed  its  organizational  efforts  through  the  Kurd- 
ish Democratic  National  Front  (DNF).  The  ICP  headquarters  was 
partially  destroyed  in  May  1984  following  limited  Turkish  incur- 
sions to  help  Iraq  protect  its  oil  pipeline  to  and  through  Turkey 
and  was  apparently  relocated  in  territories  controlled  by  the  DNF 
in  1988.  Ideologically  split  and  physically  mauled,  the  ICP  may 
have  lost  much  of  its  strength,  and  it  had  no  influence  in  the  Peo- 
ple's Army,  which  remained  in  the  hands  of  the  Baath  Party. 

Impact  of  the  Iranian  Revolution  on  Iraqi  Shias 

In  1964  Ayatollah  Khomeini  was  expelled  from  Iran  to  Turkey, 
and  he  was  then  granted  asylum  by  Iraq  (see  The  Iran-Iraq  Con- 
flict, ch.  1).  His  theological  erudition  and  idealism  earned  him  a 
significant  following  in  An  Najaf,  where  ulama  (religious  leaders) 
and  students  from  throughout  the  Shia  world  formed  an  important 


250 


National  Security 


circle  of  learned  men.  The  Baath  socialist  regime,  however,  with 
its  secular,  anticlerical  stance,  was  never  comfortable  with  Shia 
religious  leaders  and  their  followers. 

Relations  between  the  Iraqi  regime  and  the  Shia  clerics  deterio- 
rated during  the  Imam  Husayn  celebrations  in  February  1977, 
when  police  interference  in  religious  processions  resulted  in  mas- 
sive antigovernment  demonstrations  in  An  Najaf  and  in  Karbala. 
Several  thousand  participants  were  arrested,  and  eight  Shia  dig- 
nitaries, including  five  members  of  the  clergy,  were  sentenced  to 
death  and  were  executed.  In  1978,  in  an  effort  to  quell  the  Shia 
unrest  and  to  satisfy  the  shah's  request,  Baghdad  expelled  Ayatol- 
lah  Khomeini,  who  sought  refuge  in  France. 

In  another  attempt  to  minimize  Shia  dissent,  the  Iraqi  govern- 
ment had  deported  to  Iran  60,000  Shias  of  Iranian  origin  in  1974. 
In  the  months  following  the  1979  Islamic  Revolution  in  Iran,  the 
Iraqi  government  deported  nearly  35,000  more  ethnic  Iranians. 

Deportations,  the  suppression  of  the  Shia  ulama,  and  the  death 
under  suspicious  circumstances  of  Shia  leader  Imam  Musa  as  Sadr 
all  contributed  to  the  deterioration  of  relations  between  Baathist 
Iraq  and  Islamic  Iran.  The  ranking  Shia  religious  leader,  Sayyid 
Abu  al  Qasim  al  Khoi,  refrained  from  either  sanctioning  or  oppos- 
ing the  Baath  government,  but  the  government  feared  Sadr  because 
of  his  leadership  qualities  and  because  of  his  close  association  with 
Khomeini. 

Beginning  in  1980,  Iran  actively  promoted  its  own  revolution- 
ary vision  for  Iraq.  All  anti-Iraqi  Islamic  organizations,  including 
Ad  Dawah  al  Islamiyah,  commonly  called  Ad  Dawah  (see  Politi- 
cal Opposition,  ch.  4)  and  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Action  were 
based  in  Tehran,  where  they  came  under  the  political,  religious, 
and  financial  influence  of  the  ruling  clergy.  To  control  rivalry  and 
infighting  among  the  different  groups,  Iran  helped  to  set  up  the 
Supreme  Assembly  for  the  Islamic  Revolution  in  Iraq  (SAIRI)  on 
November  17,  1982.  It  was  headed  by  Iraqi  cleric  Hujjat  al  Islam 
Muhammad  Baqir  al  Hakim.  Establishing  SAIRI  was  viewed  as 
a  step  toward  unifying  the  political  and  military  work  of  all  groups 
and  as  an  attempt  to  unite  them  under  a  single  command  directly 
supervised  by  their  Iranian  counterparts.  In  return,  SAIRI  acknowl- 
edged the  leadership  of  Khomeini  as  the  supreme  commander  of 
the  Islamic  nation.  Nevertheless,  the  majority  of  Iraqi  Shias  resisted 
Tehran's  control  and  remained  loyal  to  Iraq. 

Internal  Security  in  the  1980s 

In  addition  to  the  regular  armed  forces,  Iraq's  state  security  sys- 
tem consisted  of  at  least  six  organizations  charged  with  a  wide 


251 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


variety  of  security  functions.  Little  was  publicly  known  about  these 
paramilitary  and  police  organizations,  but  their  importance  was 
undisputed.  In  addition  to  the  People's  Army,  discussed  above, 
internal  security  organizations  consisted  of  the  Security  Troops  (or 
Presidential  Guard),  the  Border  Guard,  the  Frontier  Force,  the 
regular  civil  police,  and  the  Mukhabarat  (or  Department  of  General 
Intelligence). 

The  Security  Troops  formed  an  elite  group  of  4,800  whose 
primary  task  was  to  protect  the  Baath  leadership  in  Iraq.  Their 
ranks  were  filled  with  the  most  loyal  troops  serving  in  the  Iraqi 
armed  forces,  whose  dedication  to  Baathism  and  to  Saddam  Husayn 
personally  had  been  tested  on  numerous  occasions.  These  troops 
faced  considerable  danger  because  the  frequent  assassination 
attempts  on  the  president  and  on  his  close  associates  usually  meant 
loss  of  life  among  bodyguards.  Survivors  were  generously  rewarded, 
however. 

The  Frontier  Guard  and  the  Mobile  Force  accounted  for  an  esti- 
mated 50,000  additional  men  within  the  security  system.  Unlike 
the  People's  Army,  these  forces  consisted  of  full-time,  professional 
men-at-arms.  Frontier  Guard  personnel  were  stationed  principally 
in  northern  Iraq  along  the  borders  with  Iran,  Turkey,  and  Syria 
to  guard  against  smuggling  and  infiltrations.  Before  1974  the  Fron- 
tier Guard  was  under  the  control  of  local  Kurds,  but,  after  the  defeat 
of  the  Kurdish  revolt  in  1975,  it  was  administered  by  the  central 
government.  The  Mobile  Force  was  a  strike  force  used  to  support 
the  regular  police  in  the  event  of  major  internal  disorders.  It  was 
armed  with  infantry  weapons,  with  artillery,  and  with  armored 
vehicles,  and  it  contained  commando  units  trained  to  deal  with  guer- 
rilla activities. 

The  regular  civil  police  handled  state  security  in  addition  to  their 
routine  duties  of  fighting  crime,  controlling  traffic,  and  the  like. 
After  1982,  many  of  these  routine  functions  were  taken  over  by 
People's  Army  "volunteers"  to  free  more  able-bodied  men  for  duty 
on  the  war  front.  The  regular  police  were  under  the  Ministry  of 
Interior,  and  they  were  commanded  by  the  director  of  police  in 
Baghdad.  There  were  thought  to  be  several  specialized  components 
of  the  police,  including  forces  assigned  exclusively  to  traffic,  to  nar- 
cotics investigation,  and  to  railroad  security.  The  police  operated 
at  least  two  schools:  the  Police  College  for  those  with  secondary 
degrees  and  the  Police  Preparatory  School  for  those  without  second- 
ary education.  Police  officers  held  military  ranks  identical  to  those 
of  the  regular  armed  forces,  and  many  were  called  to  serve  in  the 
war  with  Iran. 


252 


-X 


Iranian  soldiers  in  a  prisoner  of  war  camp  at  Ar  Ramadi,  Iraq 
Courtesy  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross 

Photo  by  J.J.  Kurz 

The  Department  of  General  Intelligence  was  the  most  notorious 
and  possibly  the  most  important  arm  of  the  state  security  system. 
It  was  created  in  1973  after  the  failed  coup  attempt  by  Director 
of  Internal  Security  Nazim  Kazzar.  In  1982  the  Department  of 
General  Intelligence  underwent  a  personnel  shake-up.  At  that  time, 
it  was  headed  by  Saadun  Shakir,  who  was  an  RCC  member  and, 
like  Saddam  Husayn,  a  Tikriti,  and  who  was  assisted  by  Saddam 
Husayn's  younger  half-brother,  Barazan  Husayn.  Foreign  observ- 
ers believed  that  the  president  was  dissatisfied  because  the  agency 
had  not  anticipated  the  assassination  attempt  at  Ad  Dujayl.  It  was 
also  believed  that  several  separate  intelligence  networks  were  incor- 
porated within  the  department,  and  that  Iraqi  intelligence  agents 
operated  both  at  home  and  abroad  in  their  mission  to  seek  out  and 
eliminate  opponents  of  the  Baghdad  regime. 

Incidence  of  Crime 

The  Baathist  regime  introduced  a  variety  of  laws,  of  which  the 
most  important  was  a  1969  penal  code  that  expanded  the  defini- 
tion of  crime  to  include  acts  detrimental  to  the  political,  the  eco- 
nomic, and  the  social  goals  of  the  state.  Baathist  hegemony  in  the 
political  sphere,  for  example,  was  enforced  by  a  law  making  it  a 
crime  to  insult  the  state  or  its  leaders  publicly.  Economic  goals  were 


253 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

also  enforced  by  several  laws — a  1970  trade  regulation,  for  exam- 
ple, made  both  the  selling  of  goods  at  prices  other  than  those  fixed 
by  the  state  and  the  production  of  inferior  products  felonies.  The 
government's  free  education  program  was  enforced  by  a  law  mak- 
ing it  a  crime  to  refuse  to  participate. 

The  more  traditionally  defined  kinds  of  crime,  including  theft, 
forgery,  bribery,  the  misappropriation  of  public  funds,  and  murder, 
followed  the  pattern  of  most  developing  states.  No  adequate  statisti- 
cal data  for  Iraq  were  available  in  1987,  however.  Amnesty  Inter- 
national reported  in  1986  that  degrading  treatment  of  prisoners, 
arbitrary  arrests,  and  denial  of  fair  public  trials  were  common.  In 
1985  and  in  1986,  several  high-ranking  officials,  including  the 
mayor  of  Baghdad,  were  tried  for  corruption,  were  found  guilty, 
and  were  executed.  Presumably,  the  purpose  of  these  sentences  was 
to  make  it  clear  that  criminals  would  be  punished,  regardless  of 
their  status. 

Criminal  Justice  System 

The  regular  criminal  justice  system  consisted  of  courts  of  first 
instance  (including  magistrate  courts),  courts  of  sessions,  and  the 
Court  of  Cassation.  Major  crimes  against  state  security  were  tried 
in  the  revolutionary  courts,  which  operated  separately  from  the 
regular  judicial  system.  In  general  this  court  system  followed  the 
French  pattern  as  first  introduced  during  the  rule  of  the  Ottoman 
Turks,  although  the  system  had  undergone  several  modifications 
during  the  twentieth  century.  Juries  were  not  used  anywhere  in 
the  Iraqi  criminal  court  system. 

Most  petty  crimes,  or  contraventions,  which  carried  penalties 
of  imprisonment  from  one  day  to  three  months  or  of  fines  up  to 
ID30,  were  tried  in  local  magistrate  courts.  These  third-class  courts, 
which  were  found  in  all  local  municipalities,  were  presided  over 
by  municipal  council  members  or  by  other  local  administrative  offi- 
cials. First-  and  second-class  criminal  matters,  which  corresponded 
to  felonies  and  to  misdemeanors,  respectively,  were  tried  within 
appropriate  penal  courts  attached  to  civil  courts  of  first  instance, 
located  in  provincial  capitals  and  in  district  and  subdistrict  centers. 
Misdemeanors  were  punishable  by  three  months'  to  five  years' 
imprisonment;  felonies  by  five  years'  to  life  imprisonment  or  by 
the  death  penalty.  One  judge  conducted  the  trials  for  criminal  mat- 
ters at  each  of  these  courts  of  original  jurisdiction. 

In  1986  the  six  courts  of  session  continued  to  hold  jurisdiction 
in  the  most  serious  criminal  matters,  and  they  acted  as  courts  of 
appeal  in  relation  to  lower  penal  or  magistrate  courts.  Four  of  these 


254 


National  Security 


courts  were  identical  to  the  civil  courts  of  appeal;  two  were  presided 
over  by  local  judges  from  the  courts  of  first  instance.  Three  judges 
heard  cases  tried  in  the  courts  of  session. 

The  Court  of  Cassation  was  the  state's  highest  court  for  crimi- 
nal matters.  At  least  three  judges  were  required  to  be  present  in 
its  deliberations,  and  in  cases  punishable  by  death,  five  judges  were 
required.  The  Court  of  Cassation  also  served  as  the  highest  court 
of  appeals,  and  it  confirmed,  reduced,  remitted,  or  suspended  sen- 
tences from  lower  courts.  It  assumed  original  jurisdiction  over 
crimes  committed  by  judges  or  by  high-ranking  government 
officials. 

The  revolutionary  courts,  composed  of  three  judges,  sat  perma- 
nently in  Baghdad  to  try  crimes  against  the  security  of  the  state; 
these  crimes  were  defined  to  include  espionage,  treason,  smuggling, 
and  trade  in  narcotics.  Sessions  were  held  in  camera,  and  the  right 
of  defense  reportedly  was  severely  restricted.  It  was  also  believed 
that  regular  judicial  procedures  did  not  apply  in  these  special  courts, 
summary  proceedings  being  common. 

On  several  occasions  during  the  1970s — after  the  attempted  coups 
of  1970  and  of  1973,  after  the  1977  riots  in  An  Najaf  and  in  Karbala, 
and  after  the  1979  conspiracy  against  the  regime — the  RCC  decreed 
the  establishment  of  special  temporary  tribunals  to  try  large  num- 
bers of  security  offenders  en  masse.  Each  of  these  trials  was  presided 
over  by  three  or  four  high  government  officials  who,  not  being 
bound  by  ordinary  provisions  of  criminal  law,  rendered  swift  and 
harsh  sentences.  In  1970  fifty-two  of  an  estimated  ninety  accused 
persons  were  convicted,  and  thirty-seven  of  these  were  executed 
during  three  days  of  proceedings.  It  was  believed  that  about  thirty- 
five  had  been  sentenced  to  death  and  about  twenty  had  been 
acquitted,  during  two  days  of  trials  in  1973.  In  a  one-day  trial  in 
1977,  eight  were  sentenced  to  death,  and  fifteen  were  sentenced 
to  life  imprisonment;  eighty-seven  persons  were  believed  to  have 
been  acquitted.  Thirty-eight  Iraqis  were  executed  between  May  24 
and  May  27,  1978.  The  majority  of  them  were  members  of  the 
armed  forces,  guilty  of  political  activity  inside  the  military.  An 
additional  twenty-one  leading  members  of  the  party,  including 
ministers,  trade  union  leaders,  and  members  of  the  RCC,  were 
tried  in  camera  and  executed  in  1979.  In  general,  those  sentenced 
to  death  were  executed,  either  by  hanging  or  by  firing  squad, 
immediately  after  the  trials. 

Administered  by  the  Ministry  of  Labor  and  Social  Affairs,  the 
penal  system  was  dominated  by  the  central  prison  at  Abu  Ghurayb 
near  Baghdad,  which  housed  several  thousand  prisoners,  and  by 
three  smaller  branch  prisons  located  in  the  governorates  of  Al 


255 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Basrah,  Babylon,  and  Nineveh.  Additional  detention  centers  were 
located  throughout  the  country.  In  early  1988,  it  was  impossible 
to  determine  the  full  number  of  imprisonments  in  Iraq. 

Internal  security  was  a  matter  of  ongoing  concern  for  Iraq  in 
the  late  1980s.  The  end  of  the  war  with  Iran  would  presumably 
bring  opportunities  for  liberalizing  the  security  restrictions  imposed 
by  the  Baathist  regime. 

English-language  literature  on  the  subject  of  Iraqi  national  secu- 
rity was  scarce  in  1988,  largely  because  of  the  government's  almost 
obsessive  secrecy  with  respect  to  security  affairs  and  because  of  the 
Iran-Iraq  War.  Frederick  W.  Axelgard's  Iraq  in  Transition:  A  Politi- 
cal, Economic,  and  Strategic  Perspective  was  the  most  comprehensive 
and  up-to-date  study  of  the  subject  in  1988.  Majid  Khadduri's 
Socialist  Iraq,  dealing  with  military  and  security  affairs  in  the  larger 
context  of  post- 1968  political  developments,  continued  to  be  indis- 
pensable. Mohammad  A.  Tarbush's  The  Role  of  the  Military  in  Politics: 
A  Case  Study  of  Iraq  to  1941,  and  Hanna  Batatu's  The  Old  Social  Classes 
and  the  Revolutionary  Movements  of  Iraq,  provided  invaluable  back- 
ground information.  The  rapid  growth,  in  both  manpower  and 
equipment,  of  Iraq's  armed  forces  was  best  documented  in  the 
annual  The  Military  Balance,  published  by  the  International  Insti- 
tute for  Strategic  Studies.  Accounts  by  Efraim  Karsh  in  The  Iran- 
Iraq  War,  and  a  series  of  articles  by  Anthony  H.  Cordesman, 
thoroughly  discussed  the  Iran-Iraq  War.  (For  further  information 
and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


256 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Population  Distribution  by  Governorate,  1987 

3  Area  and  Population  Density,  1987 

4  Teachers,  Students,  and  Schools,  School  Years  1976-77  to 

1985-86,  Selected  Years 

5  Medical  Personnel  and  Facilities,  1985 

6  Crude  Oil  Production  and  Oil  Revenues,  1982-87 

7  Production  and  Area  of  Major  Crops,  1981-85,  Selected  Years 

8  Principal  Exports  and  Imports,  1984 

9  Direction  of  Trade,  1985  and  1986 

10  Armed  Forces  Manpower,  1977-87 

11  Major  Army  Equipment,  1987 

12  Major  Navy  Equipment,  1987 

13  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1987 


257 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


When  you  know 

Multiply  by 

To  find 

  0.04 

inches 

  0.39 

inches 

ieet 

0.62 

miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)  

  2.47 

acres 

  0.39 

square  miles 

  35.3 

cubic  feet 

  0.26 

gallons 

pounds 

  0.98 

long  tons 

  1.1 

short  tons 

  2,204 

pounds 

,  ,  ,  ,  9 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade) 

divide  by  5 

and  add  32 

Table  2.  Population  Distribution  by  Governorate,  1987 

1 

(in  thousands) 

Administrative  Division 

Female  Male 

Urban 

Rural 

Total 

Governorate 

Al  Anbar   

390  428 

538 

280 

818 

438  434 

782 

90 

872 

160  153 

163 

150 

313 

280  281 

321 

240 

561 

An  Najaf   

362  361 

568 

155 

723 

At  Tamim   

255  338 

473 

120 

593 

557  552 

669 

440 

1,109 

Baghdad   

1,890  1,955 

3,600 

245 

3,845 

Dhi  Qar   

445  473 

468 

450 

918 

Diyala   

445  455 

465 

435 

900 

229  227 

341 

115 

456 

244  256 

275 

225 

500 

745  762 

982 

525 

1,507 

350  374 

400 

324 

724 

Wasit   

225  235 

260 

200 

460 

Autonomous  Region  2 

As  Sulaymaniyah   

433  510 

543 

400 

943 

Dahuk   

125  168 

160 

133 

293 

Irbil   

340  403 

475 

268 

743 

TOTAL   

7,913  1      8,365  1 

11,483 

4,795 

16,278 

1  From  October  17,  1987,  census;  remaining  figures  are  estimates. 

2  See  Glossary. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Joint  Publications  Research  Service,  Daily  Report:  Near 
East  and  South  Asia,  October  20,  1987,  22,  and  October  21,  1987,  25. 


258 


Appendix 

Table  3.  Area  and  Population  Density,  1987 


Land  Area  Density 
(in  square  Population  (persons  per 

Administrative  Division  kilometers)1       (in  thousands)       square  kilometer) 


Governorate 

Al  Anbar   137,723  818  5.9 

Al  Basrah    19,070  872  45.7 

Al  Muthanna    51,029  313  6.1 

Al  Qadisiyah   8,507  561  65.9 

An  Najaf   27,844  723  26.0 

At  Tamim   10,391  593  57.1 

Babylon   5,258  1,109  2  210.9 

Baghdad    5,159  3,845  2  745.3 

Dhi  Qar    13,626  918  67.4 

Diyala   19,292  900  46.7 

Karbala   5,034  456  90.6 

Maysan   14,103  500  35.5 

Nineveh    37,698  1,507  2  40.0 

Salah  ad  Din   29,004  724  25.0 

Wash   ...  17,308  460  26.6 

Autonomous  Region  3 

As  Sulaymaniyah    15,756  943  59.9 

Dahuk   6,120  293  47.9 

Irbil    14,471  743  51.3 

TOTAL    437,393  16,278  2  37.2 


1  From  Annual  Abstract  of  Statistics,  1985. 

2  From  October  17,  1987,  census;  remaining  figures  are  estimates. 

3  See  Glossary. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Iraq,  Ministry  of  Planning,  Central  Statistical  Organi- 
zation, Annual  Abstract  of  Statistics,  1985,  Baghdad,  n.d.,  10;  and  Joint  Publications 
Research  Service,  Daily  Report:  Near  East  and  South  Asia,  October  20,  1987,  22  and 
October  21,  1987,  25. 


259 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Table  4.  Teachers,  Students,  and  Schools, 
School  Years  1976-77  to  1985-86,  Selected  Years 


Number  of 

Number  of 

I  otal 

Number  of 

Level 

Teachers 

Students 

Students 

Schools 

Female 

Male 

Kindergarten 

1976-77 

2,291 

24,223 

27,617 

51,840 

276 

1979-80 

3,079 

33,156 

47,262 

80,418 

358 

1982-83 

4,175 

38,137 

41,319 

79,456 

507 

1985-86 

4,657 

38,604 

42,827 

81,431 

584 

Primary 

1976-77 

70,799 

687,220 

1,259,962 

1,947,182 

8,156 

1979-80 

92,644 

1,174,866 

1,434,067 

2,608,933 

11,316 

1982-83 

107,364 

1,214,410 

1,400,517 

2,614,927 

10,223 

1985-86 

118,492 

1,258,434 

1,554,082 

2,812,516 

8,127 

Secondary 

1976-77 

19,471 

164,442 

387,600 

552,042 

1,319 

1979-80 

28,002 

271,112 

626,588 

897,700 

1,774 

1982-83 

32,556 

334,897 

636,930 

Q71  P.97 

1  Q77 

i  ,y  /  / 

1985-86 

35,051 

371,214 

660,346 

1 ,031 ,560 

2,238 

Vocational  1 

1976-77 

1,906 

n.a. 

n.a. 

28,365 

82 

1979-80 

3,928 

n.a. 

n.a. 

1  9fi 

1982-83 

4,733 

n.a. 

n.a. 

0 1  , JO J 

1  =17 
1  J  / 

1985-86 

6,405 

31,252 

88,838 

i  zu,uyu 

937 
Z.  J  1 

Teacher  Training  Schools  2 

1977-78 

666 

12,685 

4,652 

17,337 

32 

1982-83 

1,022 

15,936 

10,255 

9fi  1  Q1 

JO 

1985-86 

209 

3,355 

2,928 

7 

Teacher  Training  Institutes  3 

1977-78 

241 

3,233 

3,019 

6,252 

13 

1982-83 

219 

3,286 

3,197 

6,483 

7 

1985-86 

1,202 

16,820 

11,083 

27,903 

37 

University,  College,  or 

Technical  Institutes 

4 

1976-77 

4,008 

24,584 

56,914 

81,498 

9 

1979-80 

5,680 

9,298 

21,884 

31,182 

9 

1982-83 

6,674 

10,536 

23,626 

34,162 

9 

1985-86 

7,616 

17,015 

36,022 

53,037 

9 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  Includes  commercial,  technical,  and  agricultural  schools. 

2  A  three-year  course  for  those  who  had  completed  intermediate  studies. 

3  A  two-year  course  for  secondary  school  graduates. 

4  Includes  Iraqi,  other  Arab,  and  foreign  faculty  and  students  at  University  of  Baghdad,  University 
of  Basra,  Foundation  of  Technical  Institutes,  University  of  Mosul,  University  of  Al  Mustansiriyah, 
University  of  Salah  ad  Din,  University  of  Technology,  and  the  religious  colleges  affiliated  with  the 
University  of  Baghdad  and  the  University  of  Al  Mustansiriyah. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Iraq,  Ministry  of  Planning,  Central  Statistical  Organi- 
zation, Annual  Abstract  of  Statistics,  1985,  Baghdad,  n.d.,  203-33. 


260 


Appendix 


Table  5.  Medical  Personnel  and  Facilities,  1985 


Administrative 
Division 

Estimated 
Population 
(in  thousands)  1 

Hospitals 

Hospital 
Beds 

Doctors 

Paramedics 

Governorate 

A  1     A  „  1  

Q  1  O 

olo 

1 1 

ZUO 

0Z0 

A  1    T)  1 

Al  Basrah   

oil 

14 

O  O  1  o 

3QO 

oyy 

1  ^CO 
1  ,00/ 

Al  Muthanna  .... 

31  3 
01  0 

K 
J 

■tyy 

4.QQ 

tyy 

0U/ 

Al  ^adisiyan  

001 

1  1 
1  1 

/ty 

1  £3 

loo 

4-00 

A  —   XT  rt  ^ «  C 

1  to 

Q 

o 

1  3^ 

ZU/ 

Ool 

At  Tamim   

593 

8 

869 

146 

488 

1,109  2 

7 

859 

203 

623 

T>  „  „L  J  „  J 

9   Q/1E  2 

O,ot0 

1  n  nnfi 

9  1 

Z,  1^0 

^,000 

Q1  ft 

1  R 
1  J 

1   1 09 

1  fin 

fiflft 
ouu 

you 

1  A 
1U 

Old 

OJD 

1  4Q 

14-o 

A  CA 

4-0't 

456 

4 

488 

118 

287 

Maysan  

500 

10 

956 

126 

546 

Nineveh   

1,507  2 

21 

2,223 

498 

1,011 

Salah  ad  Din  .... 

724 

6 

775 

125 

403 

Wasit   

460 

10 

590 

137 

506 

Autonomous  Region  3 

As  Sulaymaniyah  . 

943 

11 

1,187 

124 

630 

Dahuk  

293 

7 

490 

124 

344 

Irbil   

743 

17 

1,684 

196 

848 

TOTAL   

16,278 

216 

27,705 

5,724 

4,683 

1  For  1987. 

2  From  October  17,  1987,  census. 

3  See  Glossary. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Iraq,  Ministry  of  Planning,  Central  Statistical  Organi- 
zation, Annual  Abstract  of  Statistics,  1985,  Baghdad,  n.d.,  192-96;  and  Joint  Publi- 
cations Research  Service,  Daily  Report:  Near  East  and  South  Asia,  October  20,  1987, 
22  and  October  21,  1987,  25. 


Table  6.  Crude  Oil  Production  and  Oil  Revenues,  1982-87 


1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987 


Production 

(in  thousands  of 

barrels  per  day)    ..  972  922         1,203        1,437        1,746  2,076 

Revenue 

(in  millions  of 
United  States 

dollars)    $10,250*    $9,650*    $10,000*  $11,900*    $6,813*  $11,300* 

'Estimated. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Central  Intelligence  Agency,  Directorate  of  Intelligence, 
Economic  and  Energy  Indicators,  June  3,  1988,  9,  and  The  Middle  East  and  North  Africa, 
1989,  London:  Europa,  1988,  475. 


261 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Table  7.  Production  and  Area  oj Major  Crops,  Selected  Years,  1981-85 


Production  Cultivated  Area 

(in  thousands  of  tons)  (in  thousands  of  hectares) 


Crop  1981  1983  1985  1981  1983  1985 

Wheat    902  841  1,406  484.7  512.6  626.6 

Barley    925  835  1,331  419.5  556.6  579.5 

Rice    162  111  149  22.9  22.7  24.5 

Cotton   13  12  7  4.5  5.5  4.3 

Tobacco    12  14  17  4.8  5.8  6.6 

Tomatoes    425  439  612  16.4  14.9  19.1 

Eggplant    83  112  232  3.0  3.8  5.6 

Watermelon    491  583  757  17.1  18.8  21.9 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Iraq,  Ministry  of  Planning,  Central  Statistical  Organi- 
zation, Annual  Abstract  of  Statistics,  1985,  Baghdad,  n.d.,  59-64. 


Table  8.  Principal  Exports  and  Imports,  1984 


Exports 
(in  millions  of  Iraqi  dinars*) 

Imports 
(in  millions  of  Iraqi  dinars*) 

Oil,  gas  and  related  products 

7,028 

Machinery,  including  aircraft 

65,067 

Foodstuffs 

681 

Manufactured  goods 

48,786 

Raw  materials 

(including  fertilizers,  cement) 

287 

Foodstuffs 

43,828 

Manufactured  goods 

241 

Chemicals,  pharmaceuticals, 
and  explosives 

Heating,  medical  equipment, 
furniture,  and  clothes 

17,225 
10,285 

Other  items 

36 

Other  items 

10,653 

TOTAL 

8,273 

195,844 

*For  value  of  the  Iraqi  dinar — see  Glossary. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Iraq,  Ministry  of  Planning,  Central  Statistical  Organi- 
zation, Annual  Abstract  of  Statistics,  1985,  Baghdad,  n.d.,  164. 


262 


Appendix 


Table  9.  Direction  of  Trade,  1985-86 
(in  percentages) 


Country  1985  1986 
Exports 

Brazil    17.7  n.a. 

Britain   n.a.  1.2 

France   13.0  7.0 

Italy    11.0  8.1 

Japan                                                                                 6.0  10.5 

Spain    10.7  n.a. 

Turkey                                                                               8.1  8.1 

United  States                                                                      4.7  5.8 

West  Germany    n.a.  10.5 

Yugoslavia                                                                          8.0  8.1 

Imports 

Brazil                                                                                    7.0  n.a. 

Britain                                                                              6.3  8.0 

France                                                                              7.5  6.8 

Italy                                                                                 7.6  8.0 

Japan    14.4  14.8 

Kuwait                                                                                  4.2  n.a. 

Turkey                                                                               8.2  9.0 

United  States    n.a.  5.7 

West  Germany                                                                    9.2  8.0 

Yugoslavia    n.a.  4.5 

n.a. —  not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  Direction  of  Trade 
Statistics,  cited  in  the  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Report:  Iraq,  No.  1,  1987, 
2  and  No.  1,  1988,  2. 


Table  10.  Armed  Forces  Manpower,  Selected  Years,  1977-87 


1977 

1979 

1981 

1983 

1985 

1987 

Armed  Forces 
Army 
Navy 
Air  Force 
Air  Defense 

160,000 
3,000 
15,000 
10,000 

190,000 
4,000 
18,000 
10,000 

210,000  1 
4,250  1 
28,000  1 
10,000  1 

475,000  1 
4,250  1 
28,000  1 
10,000  1 

475,000  1 
5,000  1 
30,000  1 
10,000  1 

475,000 
5,000 
30,000 
10,000 

TOTAL 

188,000 

222,000 

252,250  1 

517,250  »,  2 

520,000  1 

520,000 

Reserves 

250,000 

250,000 

250,000 

75,000 

75,000 

480,000 

Paramilitary 

People's  Army 
Security  Forces 
Frontier  Guard 

50,000 
4,800 

75,000 
4,800 

250,000  3 
4,800 

250,000 
4,800 
n.a. 

450,000 
4,800 
n.a. 

650,000 
4,800 
n.a. 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  Losses  make  estimates  tentative. 

2  In  addition,  10,000  armed  forces  personnel  from  Egypt,  Jordan,  and  Sudan  served  in  Iraq. 

3  75,000  of  these  mobilized. 


263 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Table  11.  Major  Army  Equipment,  1987* 


TYPE 


DESIGNATION 


INVENTORY 


Armored  fighting  vehicles 
Heavy  and  medium  tanks 


Light  tanks 
TOTAL 


T-54,  T-55,  T-62,  T-72 

T-59,  T-69  II 

Chieftain  Mark  3/5,  M-60, 

M-47 
M-77 

PT-76 


2,790 
1,500 

150 
60 

100 
4,600 


Armored  vehicles 

Mechanized  infantry  combat 
vehicles 

Reconnaissance  vehicles 


Armored  personnel  carriers 

TOTAL 
Artillery  guns 

Guns/howitzers 

Howitzers 


TOTAL 

Multiple  rocket  launchers 
TOTAL 


BMP 

BRDM-2,  FUG-70,  ERC-90, 
MOWAG  Roland,  EE-9 
Cascavel,  EE-3  Jararaca 

BTR-50,  BTR-60,  BTR-152, 
OT-62,  OT-64,  VC-TH 
(with  HOT  antitank  guided 
weapons),  M-113A1,  Panhard 
M-3,  EE- 11  Urutu 


122mm:  D-74; 

130mm:  M-46,  Type  59-1; 

155mm:  GCT  self-propelled. 

152mm:  M-1937; 
155mm:  G-5, 

GHN-45 

105mm:  M-56  pack; 

122mm:  D-30  towed,  M-1938, 

M-1974  (2S1); 
152mm:  M-1943,  M-1973  (2S3) 

self-propelled; 
155mm:  M-114/M-109 

self-propelled 


Includes  122mm:  BM-21 
127mm:  ASTROS  II 
132mm:  BM-13,  BM-16 


1,000 


4,000 


40 
40 


3,000 


n.a. 

60 
n.a. 
200 


Surface-to-surface  missiles 
TOTAL 


FROG-7 
Scud-B 


30 
20 
50 


Mortars 


81mm;  120mm;  160mm 


264 


Appendix 


Table  11. — Continued. 


TYPE 


DESIGNATION 


INVENTORY 


Antitank  weapons 
Recoilless  rifles 


73mm:  SPG-9 
82mm:  B-10 
107mm 


Guns 


Antitank  guided  weapons 


85mm;  100mm  towed;  105mm: 

SK-105  self-propelled 
AT-3  Sagger  (including 

BRDM-2) 
AT-4  Spigot  (reported),  SS-11, 

Milan,  HOT 


100 

n.a. 

n.a. 
n.a. 


Army  Air  Corps, 
armed  helicopters 
Attack  helicopters 


Mil  Mi24  Hind,  with  AT-2 

Swatter 
SA-342  Gazelle  (some  with 

HOT) 

SA-321  Super  Frelon  (some  with 

Exocet  AM-38  ASM) 
SA-316B  Alouette  III,  with 

AS- 12  ASM 
BO- 105,  with  AS- 11  antitank 

guided  weapons 
Hughes-530F 
Hughes-500D 
Hughes-300C 


TOTAL 


40 

50 

10 

30 

56 
26 
30 
30 
272 


Transport  helicopters 
Heavy 
Medium 
Light 

TOTAL 


Mi-6  Hook 

Mi-8 

Mi-4 

SA-330  Puma 


10 
100 
20 
10 
140 


Air  defense  weapons 
Guns 


TOTAL 


23mm:  ZSU-23-4  self-propelled; 
37mm:  M-1939  and  twin; 
57mm:  includes  ZSU-57-2 

self-propelled; 
85mm;  100mm;  130mm 


4,000 


Surface-to-air  missiles 


TOTAL 


SA-2 

SA-3,  SA-6,  SA-7,  SA-9 
Roland 


120 
150 
60 
300 


n.a. — not  available. 

'Equipment  estimates  are  tentative  because  of  wartime  losses. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  The  Military 
Balance,  1987-1988.  London,  1987,  100. 


265 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

Table  12.  Major  Navy  Equipment,  1987 

Type  and  Description  Inventory 

Frigates  5 
4  Lupo  class  with  8  Otomat-2  SSM,  1  X  8 

Albatros/Aspide  SAM,  1  helicopter  (held  in  Italy) 

1  Yug  (training  vessel) 

Corvettes  6 
Assad  class,  all  with  1X4 
Albatros/Aspide  SAMs: 

2  with  2  Otomat-2  SSMs,  1  helicopter; 

4  with  6  Otomat-2  SSMs; 

completed  (all  6  held  in  Italy) 

Fast-attack  craft  (missiles)  OSA  class,  each  with  4  Styx  SSMs 

(6  of  model  II,  2  of  model  I)  8 

Fast-attack  craft  (torpedoes)  4 
P-6  (may  not  be  operable) 

Large  patrol  craft:  SO-1  3 

Coastal  patrol  craft:  Zhuk  (under  100  tons)  5 

Minesweepers  8 

2  Soviet  T-43  (ocean); 

3  Yevgenya  (ocean);  and 
3  Nestin  (inshore/river) 

Amphibious  6 
3  Polnocny  (LSM  l) 
3  modern  cargo  (LST  2) 

Support  ships  5 

1  Stromboli  class 

2  Poluchat  torpedo  support; 

1  Agnadeen  tanker;  and  1  Transport 

1  Landing  ship,  medium. 

2  Landing  ship  tank. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  The 
Military  Balance,  1987-1988,  London,  1987,  100. 


266 


Appendix 


Table  13.  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1987 


TYPE 

DESIGNATION 

INVENT 

Bombers 

1  u-io 

Q 
O 

T\i  99 

7 

Fighters 

MiG-29 

28 

IvLlKjr  i.ODL\l 

4-0 

JVlirage  r-lL-i 

A.(\ 
et\) 

JVlirage  r-itv^D  ^rLxocet- 

equipped) 

20 

Mirage  F-1EQ-200 

23 

F-7  (Chinese  version  of  MiG-21 

assembled  in  Egypt) 

70 

ou-/,  ou-zu  ^ou-4J  reportea ) 

n.a. 

Interceptors 

9^ 

ZUO 

MlLr-iy 

a  r\ 

w 

JVlirage  Jr  —  l  JtL-vi 

Reconnaissance 

MiG-25 

5 

Transport  aircraft 

An-z  Ljou 

i  n 

10 

10 
1  u 

An-24  Coke  (retiring) 

O 

An-zo  L^url 

o 

I 

11-/0  L^anaia 

1  O 

iy 

11-14  Crate 

19 

DH  Heron 

1 

_  . 

1  rainers 

IVllVj-lO,  IVllUr-Zl,  1V1Hj-ZjU, 

Su-7U 

n.a. 

Mirage  F-1BQ, 

16 

L.-zy  Deliin 

00 

T    on  a  lk„t_„ „ 

L,-jy  Albatros 

/I  A 

40 

rU-/  lurbo  lrainer 

50 

fc,JvlB-312  lucano 

21 

Air-to-air  missiles 

R-530 

n.a. 

R-550  Magic 

n.a. 

AA-2,  AA-6,  AA-7,  AA-8 

n.a. 

Air-to-surface  missiles 

AS-30  Laser 

200 

Armat 

n.a. 

Exocet  AM-39 

542 

AS-4  Kitchen 

n.a. 

AS-5  Kelt 

n.a. 

n.a. — not  available. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  The  Military 
Balance,  1987-1988,  London:  1987,  100-1;  The  Military  Balance,  1986-1987,  London: 
1986,  98;  Stockholm  International  Peace  Research  Institute,  World  Armaments  and 
Disarmament,  SIPRI  Yearbook  1987.  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press,  1987,  250-53. 


267 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Abujaber,  Kemal.  The  Arab  Baath  Socialist  Party.  Syracuse:  Syracuse 

University  Press,  1966. 
Batatu,  Hanna.  The  Old  Social  Classes  and  the  Revolutionary  Movements 

of  Iraq:  A  Study  of  Iraq's  Old  Landed  and  Commercial  Classes  and  of 

Its  Communists,  Bathists,  and  Free  Officers.  Princeton:  Princeton 

University  Press,  1978. 
Dann,  Uriel.  Iraq  Under  Qassem,  1958-63.  New  York:  Praeger,  1969. 
Davidson,  Roderic  H.  Turkey.  Englewood  Cliffs,  New  Jersey: 

Prentice  Hall,  1968. 
Devlin,  John.  The  Baath  Party:  A  History  from  Its  Origins  to  1966. 

Stanford:  Hoover  Institution  Press,  1976. 
Gallman,  Waldemar.  Iraq  Under  General  Nuri.  Baltimore:  Johns 

Hopkins  University  Press,  1964. 
Ghareeb,  Edmund.  The  Kurdish  Question  in  Iraq.  Syracuse:  Syracuse 

University  Press,  1981. 
Heller,  Mark.  "Politics  and  the  Military  in  Iraq  and  Jordan 

1920-1958:  The  British  Influence,"  Armed  Forces  and  Society,  4, 

No.  1,  Fall  1977,  75-100. 
Helms,  Christine  Moss.  Iraq,  Eastern  Flank  of  the  Arab  World.  Wash- 
ington: Brookings  Institution,  1984. 
Hitti,  Philip  K.  Makers  of  Arab  History.  New  York:  Harper  and  Row, 

1968. 

 .  The  Near  East  in  History.  Princeton,  New  Jersey:  Van 

Nostrand,  1961. 

Hodgson,  Marshall  G.S.  "How  Did  the  Early  Shia  Become  Sec- 
tarian? ' '  Journal  of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  7 5 ,  No .  1 ,  January- 
March  1955,  1-13. 

Ireland,  Philip.  Iraq:  A  Study  in  Political  Development.  New  York: 
Macmillan,  1938. 

Issawi,  Charles  (ed.).  The  Economic  History  of  the  Middle  East,  1800- 
1914.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1966. 

Jawad,  Saad.  Iraq  and  the  Kurdish  Question,  1958-1970.  London: 
Ithaca  Press,  1981. 

Kedourie,  Elie.  "Continuity  and  Change  in  Modern  Iraqi  His- 
tory," Asian  Affairs  [London],  June  1975,  140-46. 

Kelidar,  Abbas.  The  Integration  of  Modern  Iraq.  New  York:  St. 
Martin's  Press,  1979. 


269 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


 .  "Iraq:  The  Search  for  Stability,"  Conflict  Studies  [London], 

59,  July  1975,  1-22. 
Kerr,  Malcolm.  The  Arab  Cold  War.  London:  Oxford  University 

Press,  1971. 

Khadduri,  Majid.  Republican  Iraq.  London:  Oxford  University 
Press,  1969. 

 Socialist  Iraq:  A  Study  in  Iraqi  Politics  Since  1968.  Washing- 
ton: Middle  East  Institute,  1978. 

Klieman,  Aaron  S.  Foundations  of  British  Policy  in  the  World:  The  Cairo 
Conference  of  1921.  Baltimore:  Johns  Hopkins  University  Press, 
1970. 

Longrigg,  Stephen.  Iraq,  1900  to  1950.  London:  Oxford  University 
Press,  1953. 

Longrigg,  Stephen  Hemsley,  and  Frank  Stoakes.  Iraq  (Nations  of 
the  Modern  World  series).  London:  Ernest  Benn,  1958. 

Marr,  Phebe.  "Iraq's  Leadership  Dilemma:  A  Study  in  Leader- 
ship Trends,  1948-1968,"  Middle  East  Journal,  24,  No.  3,  Winter- 
Autumn  1970,  283-301. 

 The  Modern  History  of  Iraq.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview 

Press,  1985. 

 .  "The  Political  Elite  in  Iraq."  Pages  109-49  in  George 

Lenczowski  (ed.),  Political  Elites  in  the  Middle  East.  Washington: 

American  Enterprise  Institute,  1975. 
Momen,  Moojan.  An  Introduction  to  Shii  Islam.  New  Haven:  Yale 

University  Press,  1985. 
Niblock,  Tim.  Iraq:  The  Contemporary  State.  New  York:  St.  Martin's 

Press,  1982. 

O'Ballance,  Edgar.  The  Kurdish  Revolt,  1961-1970.  Hamden,  Con- 
necticut: Archon  Books,  1973. 

Pelletiere,  Stephen  C.  The  Kurds:  An  Unstable  Element  in  the  Gulf. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1984. 

Penrose,  Edith,  and  E.F.  Penrose.  Iraq:  International  Relations  and 
National  Development.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1978. 

Roberts,  J.  M.  The  Pelican  History  of  the  World.  New  York:  Penguin 
Books,  1980. 

Roux,  George.  Ancient  Iraq.  Cleveland:  World  Publishing, 
1965. 

Seale,  Patrick.  The  Struggle  for  Syria.  New  York:  Oxford  University 
Press,  1965. 

Shwadran,  Benjamin.  The  Power  Struggle  in  Iraq.  New  York:  Council 

for  Middle  Eastern  Affairs  Press,  1960. 
Sluglett,  Peter.  Britain  in  Iraq,  1914-1932.  London:  Ithaca  Press, 

1976. 


270 


Bibliography 

Sourdel,  D.  "The  Abbasid  Caliphate."  Pages  104-39  in  P.M.  Holt, 
Ann  K.S.  Lambton,  and  Bernard  Lewis  (eds.),  The  Cambridge 
History  of  Islam,  I.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1970. 

Stafford,  R.S.  The  Tragedy  of  the  Assyrians.  London:  Allen  and 
Unwin,  1935. 

Tarbush,  Mohammad  A.  The  Role  of  the  Military  in  Politics:  A  Case 
Study  of  Iraq  to  1941.  London:  Kegan  Paul  International,  1982. 

Wright,  Claudia.  "Iraq:  New  Power  in  the  Middle  East,"  Foreign 
Affairs,  58,  Winter  1979-1980,  257-77. 


Chapter  2 

Adams,  Doris  Goodrich.  Iraq's  People  and  Resources  (University  of 
California  Publications  in  Economics,  XVIII).  Berkeley:  Univer- 
sity of  California  Press,  1958. 

Adams,  Robert  McCormick.  Irrigation's  Impact  on  Society.  Tucson: 
University  of  Arizona  Press,  1974. 

Alnasrawi,  Abbas.  Financing  Economic  Development  in  Iraq:  The  Role 
of  Oil  in  a  Middle  Eastern  Economy.  New  York:  Praeger,  1967. 

Arfa,  Hassan.  The  Kurds:  An  Historical  and  Political  Study.  London: 
Oxford  University  Press,  1966. 

Baali,  Fuad.  Relation  of  the  People  to  the  Land  in  Southern  Iraq  (University 
of  Florida  Monographs,  Social  Sciences,  No.  31).  Gainesville: 
University  of  Florida  Press,  1966. 

 "Relationships  of  Man  to  the  Land  in  Iraq,"  Rural 

Sociology,  31,  June  1966,  171-82. 

 "Social  Factors  in  Iraqi  Rural-Urban  Migrations,"  Ameri- 
can Journal  of  Economic  and  Sociological  Research,  25,  October  1966, 
359-64. 

Baram,  Amitzia.  "The  June  1980  Election  to  the  National  Assem- 
bly in  Iraq,"  Orient,  27,  No.  3,  1981. 

Barth,  Fredrik.  Principles  of  Social  Organization  in  Southern  Kurdistan 
(University  Ethnographic  Museum  Bulletin,  No.  7).  Oslo: 
Brodrene  Jordensen,  1953. 

Batatu,  Hanna.  "Iraq's  Underground  Shia  Movements:  Charac- 
teristics, Causes,  and  Prospects,"  Middle  East  Journal,  35,  No.  4, 
Autumn  1981,  578-94. 

 The  Old  Social  Classes  and  the  Revolutionary  Movements  of  Iraq: 

A  Study  of  Iraq's  Old  Landed  and  Commercial  Classes,  and  of  Its  Com- 
munists, Bathists,  and  Free  Officers.  Princeton:  Princeton  Univer- 
sity Press,  1978. 


271 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Cook,  M.A.  (ed.)  Studies  in  the  Economic  History  of  the  Middle  East. 

New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1970. 
Cordesman,  Anthony  H.  The  Iran- Iraq  War:  1984-1986.  Rosslyn, 

Virginia:  Eaton  Analytical  Assessments  Center,  1986. 
Coulson,  Noel,  and  Doreen  Hinchcliffe.  "Women  and  Law  Reform 

in  Contemporary  Islam."  Pages  37-51  in  Lois  Beck  and  Nikki 

Keddie  (eds.),  Women  in  the  Muslim  World.  Cambridge:  Harvard 

University  Press,  1978. 
Dann,  Uriel.  Iraq  Under  Qassem,  1958-63.  New  York:  Praeger,  1969. 
Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Iraq:  Country  Report,  1988,  No.  1, 

London:  1988. 

Fernea,  Elizabeth  W.  Guests  of  the  Sheikh.  New  York:  Doubleday, 
1965. 

Fernea,  Robert  A.  Shaykh  and  Effendi:  Changing  Patterns  of  Authority 
among  the  Shabana  of  Southern  Iraq.  Cambridge:  Harvard  Univer- 
sity Press,  1970. 

Gabbay,  Rony.  Communism  and  Agrarian  Reform  in  Iraq.  London: 
Croom  Helm,  1978. 

Ghareeb,  Edmund.  The  Kurdish  Question  in  Iraq.  Syracuse:  Syra- 
cuse University  Press,  1981. 

Grummond,  Stephen.  The  Iran-Iraq  War:  Islam  Embattled.  New: 
York:  Praeger,  1982. 

Helms,  Christine  Moss.  Iraq,  Eastern  Flank  of  the  Arab  World.  Wash- 
ington: Brookings  Institution,  1984. 

"Interview  With  Saddam  Husayn,"  Al  Majallah  [London], 
December  8,  1982. 

Iraq.  Ministry  of  Planning.  Central  Statistical  Organization.  Eco- 
nomic and  Social  Progress  Under  the  Revolution.  Baghdad:  July  1978. 

 Ministry  of  Planning.  Central  Statistical  Organization. 

Annual  Abstract  of  Statistics,  1985.  Baghdad:  n.d. 

Issawi,  Charles.  The  Economic  History  of  the  Middle  East,  1800-1914. 
Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1966. 

Kelidar,  Abbas.  The  Integration  of  Modern  Iraq.  New  York:  St.  Mar- 
tin's Press,  1979. 

Khadduri,  Majid.  Independent  Iraq,  1932-1958.  London:  Oxford 
University  Press,  1970. 

 Republican  Iraq.  London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1969. 

Al-Khafaji,  Isam.  "State  Incubation  of  Iraqi  Capitalism."  Pages  4- 
12  in  MERIP Middle  East  Report,  No.  142.  September-October 
1986.  Washington:  Middle  East  Research  and  Information 
Project. 

Longrigg,  Stephen  Hemsley.  Four  Centuries  of  Modern  Iraq.  London: 
Oxford  University  Press,  1925. 


272 


Bibliography 

 .  Iraq,  1900  to  1950.  London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1953. 

Longrigg,  Stephen  Hemsley,  and  Frank  Stoakes.  Iraq  (Nations  of 
the  Modern  World  series).  London:  Ernest  Benn,  1958. 

Marr,  Phebe.  The  Modern  History  of  Iraq.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1985. 

Pelletiere,  Stephen  C.  The  Kurds:  An  Unstable  Element  in  the  Gulf. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1984. 

Simon,  Reeva.  Iraq  Between  the  Two  World  Wars.  New  York:  Colum- 
bia University  Press,  1986. 

Sluglett,  Peter.  Britain  in  Iraq,  1914-1932.  London:  Ithaca  Press, 
1976. 

Sluglett,  Peter  and  Marion  Farouk- Sluglett.  "Some  Reflections  on 
the  Sunni/Shia  Question  in  Iraq,"  British  Society  for  Middle  East 
Studies  [London],  5,  1978,  79-87. 

Thesiger,  Wilfred.  The  Marsh  Arabs.  New  York:  Dutton,  1964. 

Viorst,  Milton.  "Iraq  at  War. "  Foreign  Affairs,  65,  No.  2,  Winter 
1986-87,  349-65. 

Warriner,  Doreen.  Land  Reform  and  Development  in  the  Middle  East: 
A  Study  of  Egypt,  Syria,  and  Iraq.  London:  Oxford  University  Press 
for  the  Royal  Institute  of  International  Affairs,  1962. 

Young,  Gavin.  Return  to  the  Marshes:  Life  With  the  Marsh  Arabs  of 
Iraq.  London:  Collins,  1977. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Joint  Publications  Research  Ser- 
vice, Daily  Report:  Near  East  and  South  Asia;  Middle  East  Economic  Digest 
[London];  New  York  Times;  Quarterly  Economic  Review:  Iraq  [Lon- 
don]; and  Washington  Post.) 

Chapter  3 

Adams,  Martin  E.  "Lessons  from  Agrarian  Reform  in  Iraq,"  Land 

Reform  [Rome],  No.  1,  1972,  56-64. 
Alnasrawi,  Abbas.  Financing  Economic  Development  in  Iraq:  The  Role 

of  Oil  in  a  Middle  Eastern  Economy.  New  York:  Praeger,  1967. 
Badre,  Albert  Y.  "Economic  Development  of  Iraq."  Pages  281-328 

in  Charles  A.  Cooper  and  Sidney  S.  Alexander  (eds.),  Economic 

Development  and  Population  Growth  in  the  Middle  East.  New  York: 

American  Elsevier  Publishing,  1972. 
Brown,  Michael  E.  "The  Nationalization  of  the  Iraqi  Petroleum 

Company,"  International  Journal  of  Middle  East  Studies,  10,  No.  1, 

February  1979,  107-24. 
Gabbay,  Rony.  Communism  and  Agrarian  Reform  in  Iraq.  London: 

Croom  Helm,  1978. 


273 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

International  Monetary  Fund.  Exchange  Arrangements  and  Exchange 
Restrictions:  Annual  Report,  1987.  Washington,  1987. 

"Iraq."  Pages  465-77  in  The  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  1989. 
London:  Europa  Publications,  1988. 

Iraq.  Ministry  of  Planning.  Central  Statistical  Organization.  Annual 
Abstract  of  Statistics,  1985.  Baghdad:  n.d. 

Jalal,  Ferhang.  The  Role  of  Government  in  the  Industrialization  of  Iraq, 
1950-65.  London:  Frank  Cass,  1972. 

Khadduri,  Majid.  Socialist  Iraq:  A  Study  in  Iraqi  Politics  Since  1968. 
Washington:  Middle  East  Institute,  1978. 

Langley,  Kathleen  M.  The  Industrialization  of  Iraq  (Harvard  Mid- 
dle Eastern  Monograph  Series,  V).  Cambridge:  Harvard  Univer- 
sity Press,  1967. 

Marr,  Phebe.  The  Modern  History  of  Iraq.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1985. 

Penrose,  Edith  and  E.F.  Penrose.  Iraq:  International  Relations 
and  National  Development.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 
1978. 

Sayigh,  Yusuf  Abd  Allah.  The  Determinants  of  Arab  Economic  Develop- 
ment. New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1978. 

 The  Economics  of  the  Arab  World:  Development  Since  1945.  New 

York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1978. 

United  States.  Department  of  Commerce.  International  Trade 
Administration.  Foreign  Economic  Trends  and  Their  Implications  for 
the  United  States:  Iraq.  Washington:  June  1986. 

Warriner,  Doreen.  Land  Reform  and  Development  in  the  Middle  East: 
A  Study  of  Egypt,  Syria,  and  Iraq.  London:  Oxford  University  Press 
for  the  Royal  Institute  of  International  Affairs,  1962. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
preparing  this  chapter.  An  Nahar  Arab  Report  and  Memo  [Limassol, 
Cyprus];  Central  Intelligence  Agency,  Directorate  of  Intelligence, 
Economic  and  Energy  Indicators  and  International  Energy  Statistical  Review; 
Economist  Intelligence  Unit  [London],  Country  Report:  Iraq;  General 
Union  of  Chambers  of  Commerce,  Industry,  and  Agriculture  for 
the  Arab  World  [Beirut],  Arab  Economic  Report;  International  Mone- 
tary Fund,  International  Financial  Statistics;  Joint  Publications 
Research  Service,  Daily  Report:  Near  East  and  South  Asia;  Middle  East 
[London];  Middle  East  Economic  Digest  [London];  Middle  East 
International  [London];  New  York  Times;  Washington  Post;  and  Whar- 
ton Econometric  Forecasting  Associates,  Middle  East  Economic 
Outlook. ) 


274 


Bibliography 


Chapter  4 

Abdulghani,  Jasim  M.  Iraq  and  Iran:  The  Years  of  Crisis .  Baltimore: 
Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  1984. 

Batatu,  Hanna.  The  Old  Social  Classes  and  the  Revolutionary  Movements 
of  Iraq:  A  Study  of  Iraq's  Old  Landed  and  Commercial  Classes  and  of 
Its  Communists,  Bathists,  and  Free  Officers.  Princeton,  New  Jersey: 
Princeton  University  Press,  1978. 

 .  "Shi'i  Organizations  in  Iraq:  Al-Da'wah  al-Islamiyah  and 

Al-Mujahidin."  Pages  179-200  in  Juan  R.I.  Cole  and  Nikki  R. 
Keddie  (eds.),  Shi'ism  and  Social  Protest.  New  Haven:  Yale  Univer- 
sity Press,  1986. 

'  'Chronology,  July  16,  1982— October  15,  1982,"  Middle  East  Jour- 
nal, 37,  No.  1,  Winter  1983,  65-88. 

Ghareeb,  Edmund.  The  Kurdish  Question  in  Iraq.  Syracuse:  Syra- 
cuse University  Press,  1981. 

Halliday,  Fred.  "Gorbachev  and  the  'Arab  Syndrome':  Soviet 
Policy  in  the  Middle  East,"  World  Policy  Journal  [London],  1987, 
415-41. 

 .  "The  USSR  and  the  Gulf  War:  Moscow's  Growing  Con- 
cern." Pages  10-11  in  MERIP  Middle  East  Report,  No.  148. 
September-October  1987.  Washington:  Middle  East  Research 
Information  Project. 

Helms,  Christine  Moss.  Iraq:  Eastern  Flank  of  the  Arab  World.  Wash- 
ington: Brookings  Institution,  1984. 

 "The  Iraqi  Dilemma:  Political  Objectives  Versus  Mili- 
tary Strategy,"  American- Arab  Affairs,  No.  5,  September  1983, 
76-85. 

Hiro,  Dilip.  "Chronicle  of  the  Gulf  War."  Pages  3-14  inMERIP 
Middle  East  Report,  No.  125-126.  July-September  1984.  Washing- 
ton: Middle  East  Research  and  Information  Project. 

"Iraq."  Pages  432-42  in  The  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  1987. 
London:  Europa  Publications,  1986. 

Ismael,  Tareq  Y.  "Ideology  in  Recent  Iraqi  Foreign  Policy." 
Pages  109-25  in  Shirin  Tahir-Kheli  and  Shaheen  Ayubi  (eds.), 
The  Iran-Iraq  War:  New  Weapons,  Old  Conflicts.  New  York:  Praeger, 
1983. 

Kempe,  Frederick.  "Baghdad's  Goal:  Iraq's  Aim  in  Gulf  War  Is 
No  Longer  to  Win  But  to  Avoid  Losing,"  Wall  Street  Journal, 
August  28,  1987,  1,  14. 

Khadduri,  Majid.  Socialist  Iraq:  A  Study  in  Iraqi  Politics  Since  1968. 
Washington:  Middle  East  Institute,  1978. 

Marr,  Phebe.  The  Modern  History  of  Iraq.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press  1985. 


275 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Niblock,  Tim.  Iraq:  The  Contemporary  State.  New  York:  St.  Martin's 
Press,  1982. 

Nonneman,  Gerd.  Iraq,  the  Gulf  States,  and  the  War:  A  Changing  Rela- 
tionship, 1980-1986  and  Beyond.  London:  Ithaca  Press,  1986. 

Paxton,  John.  The  Statesman's  Yearbook,  1986-87.  New  York:  St. 
Martin's  Press,  1986. 

Snyder,  Jed  C.  "The  Road  to  Osiraq:  Baghdad's  Quest  for  the 
Bomb,"  Middle  East  Journal,  37,  No.  4,  Autumn  1983,  565-93. 

"Syrians,  Iraqis  Bury  Hatchet,  but  not  in  Iran,"  Iran  Times,  17, 
No.  35,  November  13,  1984,  15-16. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights 
Practices  for  1985.  (Report  Submitted  to  99th  United  States  Con- 
gress, 1st  Session.  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs,  House  of 
Representatives,  and  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations,  Senate.) 
Washington:  GPO,  1986. 

Viorst,  Milton.  "Iraq  at  War,"  Foreign  Affairs ,  65,  No.  2,  Winter 
1986-87,  349-65. 

Zaher,  U.  "The  Opposition."  Pages  138-76  in  Committee  Against 
Repression  and  for  Democratic  Rights  in  Iraq  (CARDRI),  (ed.) 
Saddam's  Iraq:  Revolution  or  Reaction?  London:  Zed  Books,  1986. 


Chapter  5 

Abbas,  A.  "The  Iraqi  Armed  Forces,  Past  and  Present." 
Pages  203-26  in  Committee  Against  Repression  and  for 
Democratic  Rights  in  Iraq  (CARDRI),  (ed.),  Saddam's  Iraq:  Revo- 
lution or  Reaction?  London:  Zed  Books,  1986. 

Abdulghani,  Jasim  M.  Iraq  and  Iran:  The  Years  of  Crisis.  Baltimore: 
Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  1984. 

Axelgard,  Frederick  W.  (ed.)  Iraq  In  Transition:  A  Political,  Economic, 
and  Strategic  Perspective.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West  view  Press,  1986. 

El-Azhary,  M.S.  "The  Attitudes  of  the  Superpowers  Towards  the 
Gulf  War,"  International  Affairs  [London],  59,  No.  4,  1983, 
609-20. 

 .  The  Iran-Iraq  War:  An  Historical,  Economic,  and  Political 

Analysis.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1984. 

Batatu,  Hanna.  "Iraq's  Underground  Shia  Movements:  Charac- 
teristics, Causes,  and  Prospects,"  Middle  East  Journal,  35,  No.  4, 
Autumn  1981,  578-94. 

 The  Old  Social  Classes  and  the  Revolutionary  Movements  of  Iraq: 

A  Study  of  Iraq's  Old  Landed  and  Commercial  Classes  and  of  Its  Com- 
munists, Bathists,  and  Free  Officers.  Princeton:  Princeton  Univer- 
sity Press,  1978. 


276 


Bibliography 


 .  "Shi'i  Organizations  in  Iraq:  Al-Da'wah  al-Islamiyah  and 

Al-Mujahidin."  Pages  179-200  in  Juan  R.I.  Cole  and  Nikki  R. 
Keddie  (eds.),  Shi'ism  and  Social  Protest.  New  Haven:  Yale  Univer- 
sity Press,  1986. 

Bigler,  C.S.  "Tensions  Between  International  Law  and  Strategic 
Security — Implications  of  Israel's  Preemptive  Raid  on  Iraq's 
Nuclear  Reactor, "  Virginia  Journal  of  International  Law,  24,  No.  2, 
1984,  459-511. 

Bill,  James  A.  "Islam,  Politics,  and  Shi'ism  in  the  Gulf,"  Middle 
East  Insight,  3,  No.  3,  January-February  1984,  3-12. 

Cordesman,  Anthony  H.  "The  Attack  on  the  USS  Stark:  The 
Tragic  Cost  of  Human  Error,"  Armed  Forces  [London],  6,  No.  10, 
October  1987,  447-50. 

 .  "The  Iran-Iraq  War:  Attrition  Now,  Chaos  Later,"  Armed 

Forces  Journal,  120,  No.  10,  May  1983,  36-42,  116-17. 

 .  "The  Iran-Iraq  War  in  1984:  An  Escalating  Threat  to  the 

Gulf  and  the  West,"  Armed  Forces  Journal,  121,  No.  8,  March 
1984,  22-30,  75. 

 .  "Lessons  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War:  The  First  Round,"  Armed 

Forces  Journal,  119,  No.  8,  April  1982,  32-47. 

 "Lessons  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War:  Part  Two — Tactics,  Tech- 
nology, and  Training,"  Armed  Forces  Journal,  119,  No.  10,  June 
1982,  68-85. 

Dawisha,  Adeed.  "Iraq  and  the  Arab  World — The  Gulf  War  and 

After,"  World  Today  [London],  37,  No.  5,  May  1981,  188-94. 
Dawisha,  Karen.  "Moscow  and  the  Gulf  War,"  World  Today 

[London],  37,  No.  1,  January  1981,  8-14. 
Drysdale,  Alasdair  and  Gerald  H.  Blake.  The  Middle  East  and  North 

Africa:  A  Political  Geography.  London:  Oxford  University  Press, 

1985. 

Entessar,  Nader.  "The  Kurds  in  Post-Revolutionary  Iran  and 
Iraq,"  Third  World  Quarterly  [London],  6,  No.  4,  October  1984, 
911-33. 

Evans,  David  and  Richard  Campany.  "Iran-Iraq:  Bloody  Tomor- 
rows,' '  United  States  Naval  Institute  Proceedings,  111,  No.  1 ,  Janu- 
ary 1985,  33-43. 

Feldman,  Shai.  "The  Bombing  of  Osiraq — Revisited,"  International 
Security,  7,  No.  1,  Fall  1982,  114-42. 

Ghareeb,  Edmund.  "Iraq  and  Gulf  Security. "  Pages  39-64  in  Z. 
Michael  Szaz  (ed.),  The  Impact  of  the  Iranian  Events  Upon  Persian 
Gulf  and  United  States  Security.  Washington:  American  Foreign 
Policy  Institute,  1979. 


277 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

 .  "Iraq:  Emergent  Gulf  Power."  Pages  197-230  in  Hossein 

Amirsadeghi  (ed.),  The  Security  of  the  Persian  Gulf.  New  York:  St. 
Martin's  Press,  1981. 

 The  Kurdish  Question  in  Iraq.  Syracuse:  Syracuse  University 

Press,  1981. 

Gotlieb,  Yosef.  "Sectarianism  and  the  Iraqi  State."  Pages  153-61 
in  Michael  Curtis  (ed.),  Religion  and  Politics  in  the  Middle  East. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1981. 

Gruemm,  H.  "Safeguards  and  Tamuz:  Setting  the  Record 
Straight,"  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  Bulletin  [Vienna],  23, 
No.  4,  December  1981,  10-14. 

"Gulf  War  Moves  Towards  the  Final  Showdown, ' '  Middle  East  Eco- 
nomic Digest  [London],  31,  No.  51,  December  19,  1987,  32-33. 

Helms,  Christine  Moss.  Iraq:  Eastern  Flank  of  the  Arab  World. 
Washington:  Brookings  Institution,  1984. 

Hemphill,  Paul  P  J.  "The  Formation  of  the  Iraqi  Army,  1921-33." 
Pages  88-110  in  Abbas  Kelidar  (ed.),  The  Integration  of  Modern 
Iraq.  London:  Croom  Helm,  1979. 

International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies.  The  Military  Balance, 
1977-1978.  London:  1977. 

 The  Military  Balance,  1979-1980.  London:  1979. 

 .  The  Military  Balance,  1981-1982.  London:  1981. 

 .  The  Military  Balance,  1983-1984.  London:  1983. 

 The  Military  Balance,  1985-1986.  London:  1985. 

 .  The  Military  Balance,  1986-1987.  London:  1986. 

 .  The  Military  Balance,  1987-1988.  London:  1987. 

Ismael,  Tareq  Y.  Iraq  and  Iran:  Roots  of  Conflict.  Syracuse:  Syra- 
cuse University  Press,  1982. 

Jansen,  G.H.  "Iraq:  Bleak  Outlook,"  Middle  East  International  [Lon- 
don], February  4,  1983,  6. 

Khadduri,  Majid.  "The  Role  of  the  Military  in  Iraqi  Society." 
Pages  41-51  in  Sydney  Nettleton  Fisher  (ed.),  The  Military  in 
the  Middle  East.  Columbus:  Ohio  State  University  Press,  1963. 

 Socialist  Iraq:  A  Study  in  Iraqi  Politics  Since  1968.  Washing- 
ton: Middle  East  Institute,  1978. 

Laffin,  John.  "The  Gulf  War."  Pages  72-87  in  John  Laffin  (ed.), 
War  Annual,  1.  London:  Brassey's  Defence  Publishers,  1986. 

Marr,  Phebe.  The  Modern  History  of  Iraq.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1985. 

Muhsin,  Jabr.  "The  Gulf  War."  Pages  227-44  in  Committee 
Against  Repression  and  for  Democratic  Rights  in  Iraq 
(CARDRI),  (ed.),  Saddam's  Iraq:  Revolution  or  Reaction?  London: 
Zed  Books,  1986, 


278 


Bibliography 


Nonneman,  Gerd.  Iraq,  the  Gulf  States,  and  the  War:  A  Changing  Rela- 
tionship, 1980-1986  and  Beyond.  London:  Ithaca  Press,  1986. 

Olson,  William  J.  "Iraqi  Policy  and  the  Impact  of  the  Iran-Iraq 
War."  Pages  165-202  in  Robert  O.  Freedman  (ed.),  The  Mid- 
dle East  After  the  Israeli  Invasion  of  Lebanon.  Syracuse:  Syracuse 
University  Press,  1986. 

Penrose,  Edith,  and  E.F.  Penrose.  Iraq:  International  Relations  and 
National  Development.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1978. 

Petrossian,  Vahe.  "The  Gulf  War,"  World  Today  [London],  36, 
No.  11,  November  1980,  415-17. 

Quester,  George  H.  "Nuclear  Weapons  and  Israel,"  Middle  East 
Journal,  37,  No.  4,  Autumn  1983,  547-64. 

Ramazani,  R.K.  Revolutionary  Iran:  Challenge  and  Response  in  the  Middle 
East.  Baltimore:  Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  1986. 

Ramberg,  Bennett.  "Attacks  on  Nuclear  Reactors:  The  Implica- 
tions of  Israel's  Strike  on  Osiraq,"  Political  Science  Quarterly,  97, 
No.  4,  Winter  1982-83,  653-69. 

Renfrew,  Nita  M.  "Who  Started  The  War?"  Foreign  Policy,  No.  66, 
Spring  1987,  98-108. 

Sciolino,  Elaine.  "The  Big  Brother:  Iraq  Under  Saddam  Hussein," 
New  York  Times  Magazine,  February  3,  1985,  16. 

Sluglett,  Peter.  "The  Kurds."  Pages  177-202  in  Committee 
Against  Repression  and  for  Democratic  Rights  in  Iraq 
(CARDRI),  (ed.),  Saddam's  Iraq:  Revolution  or  Reaction?  London: 
Zed  Books,  1986. 

Snyder,  Jed  C.  "The  Road  to  Osiraq:  Baghdad's  Quest  for  the 
Bomb,"  Middle  East  Journal,  37,  No.  4,  Autumn  1983,  565-93. 

Sterner,  Michael.  "The  Iran-Iraq  War,"  Foreign  Affairs,  63,  No.  1, 
Fall  1984,  128-43. 

Tahir-Kheli,  Shirin,  and  Shaheen  Ayubi  (eds.)  The  Iran- Iraq  War: 
New  Weapons,  Old  Conflicts.  New  York:  Praeger,  1983. 

Tarbush,  Mohammad  A.  The  Role  of  the  Military  in  Politics:  A  Case 
Study  of  Iraq  to  1941.  London:  Kegan  Paul  International,  1982. 

United  States.  Department  of  Defense.  Soviet  Military  Power. 
Washington:  1987. 

Vandenbroucke,  Lucien  S.  "The  Israeli  Strike  Against  Osiraq: 
The  Dynamics  of  Fear  and  Proliferation  in  the  Middle  East," 
Air  University  Review,  35,  No.  5,  September-October  1984,  35-47. 

Vanly,  I.C.  "Kurdistan  in  Iraq."  Pages  192-203  in  Gerard 
Chaliand  (ed.),  People  Without  a  Country:  The  Kurds  and  Kurdistan. 
London:  Zed  Books,  1980. 

Viorst,  Milton.  "Iraq  At  War,"  Foreign  Affairs ,  65,  No.  2,  Winter 
1986-87,  349-65. 


279 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


 .  "A  Reporter  at  Large:  The  View  from  the  Mustan- 

siriyah.*"  New  Yorker.  Pt.  1.  October  12.  1987.  92-114. 
 .  "A  Reporter  at  Large:  The  Mew  from  the  Mustan- 

siriyah/'  Xew  Yorker,  Pt.  2.~October  19.  1987.  76-96. 
World  Armaments  and  Disarmament:  SIPRI  Yearbook.  1987.  New  York: 

Oxford  University  Press.  1987. 
Yodfat.  Aryeh  Y.  The  Sonet  Union  and  the  Arabian  Peninsula:  Soviet 

Policy  Towards  the  Persian  Gulf  and  Arabia.  Xew  York:  St.  Martin's 

Press.  1983. 

Zaher.  U.  "Political  Developments  in  Iraq.  1963-1980."  Pages  30- 
53  in  Committee  Against  Repression  and  for  Democratic  Rights 
in  Iraq  (CARDRI).  (ed.  ).  Saddam's  Iraq:  Revolution  or  Reaction^ 
London:  Zed  Books.  1986. 


280 


Glossary 


Autonomous  Region — Governorates  of  As  Sulaymaniyah,  Dahuk, 
and  Irbil,  the  Kurdish  majority  area.  In  this  region — popularly 
known  as  Kurdistan — Kurdish  has  status  of  official  language, 
and  residents  enjoy  limited  autonomy  from  central  government. 

atabeg — Turkish  word  that  during  the  period  of  the  Ottoman 
Empire  meant  governor  of  a  province. 

barrels  per  day — Production  of  crude  oil  and  petroleum  products 
is  frequently  measured  in  barrels  per  day,  often  abbreviated 
bpd  or  bd.  A  barrel  is  a  volume  measure  of  forty- two  United 
States  gallons.  Conversion  of  barrels  to  metric  tons  depends 
on  the  density  of  a  specific  product.  About  7.3  barrels  of  aver- 
age crude  oil,  or  about  7  barrels  of  heavy  crude  oil,  weigh  1 
metric  ton.  Light  products,  such  as  gasoline  and  kerosene,  aver- 
age close  to  eight  barrels  per  metric  ton. 

currency — See  dinar. 

dinar  (ID) — Currency  unit  consisting  of  1,000  fils  or  20  dirhams. 
When  officially  introduced  at  the  end  of  the  British  mandate 
(1932),  the  dinar  was  equal  to,  and  was  linked  to,  the  British 
pound  sterling,  which  at  that  time  was  equal  to  US$4.86.  Iraqi 
dinar  (ID)  equaled  US$4.86  between  1932  and  1949  and  after 
devaluation  in  1949,  equaled  US$2.80  between  1949  and  1971. 
Iraq  officially  uncoupled  the  dinar  from  the  pound  sterling  as 
a  gesture  of  independence  in  1959,  but  the  dinar  remained  at 
parity  with  the  pound  until  the  British  unit  of  currency  was  again 
devalued  in  1967.  One  Iraqi  dinar  remained  equal  to  US$2.80 
until  December  1971,  when  major  realignments  of  world  cur- 
rencies began.  Upon  the  devaluation  of  the  United  States  dollar 
in  1973,  the  Iraqi  dinar  appreciated  to  US$3.39.  It  remained 
at  this  level  until  the  outbreak  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War  in  1980. 
In  1982  Iraq  devalued  the  dinar  by  5  percent,  to  a  value  equal 
to  US$3.22,  and  sustained  this  official  exchange  rate  without 
additional  devaluation  despite  mounting  debt.  In  early  1988, 
the  official  dinar-dollar  exchange  rate  was  still  ID1  to  US$3.22; 
however,  with  estimates  of  the  nation's  inflation  rate  ranging 
from  25  percent  to  50  percent  per  year  in  1985  and  1986,  the 
dinar's  real  transaction  value,  or  black  market  exchange  rate, 
was  far  lower — only  about  half  the  1986  official  rate. 

Free  Officers — Term  applied  retroactively  to  the  group  of  young 
military  officers  that  planned  and  carried  out  the  July  1 4  Revo- 
lution in  1958. 


281 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 

GDP  (gross  domestic  product) — A  value  measure  of  the  flow  of 
domestic  goods  and  services  produced  by  an  economy  over  a 
period  of  time,  such  as  a  year.  Only  output  values  of  goods 
for  final  consumption  and  for  intermediate  production  are 
assumed  to  be  included  in  final  prices.  GDP  is  sometimes 
aggregated  and  shown  at  market  prices,  meaning  that  indirect 
taxes  and  subsidies  are  included;  when  these  have  been  elimi- 
nated, the  result  is  GDP  at  factor  cost.  The  word  gross  indi- 
cates that  deductions  for  depreciation  of  physical  assets  have 
not  been  made. 

GNP  (gross  national  product) — GDP  (q.  v.)  plus  the  net  income 
or  loss  stemming  from  transactions  with  foreign  countries.  GNP 
is  the  broadest  measurement  of  the  output  of  goods  and  ser- 
vices by  an  economy.  It  can  be  calculated  at  market  prices, 
which  include  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies.  Because  indirect 
taxes  and  subsidies  are  only  transfer  payments,  GNP  is  often 
calculated  at  factor  cost,  removing  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies. 

hadith — Tradition  based  on  the  precedent  of  Muhammad's  non- 
divinely  revealed  words  that  serves  as  one  of  the  sources  of 
Islamic  law  (sharia). 

hijra — Literally  to  migrate,  to  sever  relations,  to  leave  one's  tribe. 
Throughout  the  Muslim  world  hijra  refers  to  the  migration  of 
Muhammad  and  his  followers  to  Medina.  In  this  sense  the  word 
has  come  into  European  languages  as  hegira,  and  it  is  usually, 
and  somewhat  misleadingly,  translated  as  flight. 

ID — Iraqi  dinar.  See  dinar. 

Imam — A  word  used  in  several  senses.  In  general  use  and  in  lower 
case,  it  means  the  leader  of  congregational  prayers;  as  such  it 
implies  no  ordination  or  special  spiritual  powers  beyond  suffi- 
cient education  to  carry  out  this  function.  It  is  also  used  figura- 
tively by  many  Sunni  (q.  v. )  Muslims  to  mean  the  leader  of  the 
Islamic  community.  Among  Shias  (q.  v. )  the  word  takes  on  many 
complex  meanings;  in  general,  it  indicates  that  particular 
descendant  of  the  House  of  Ali  ibn  Abu  Talib,  who  is  believed 
to  have  been  God's  designated  repository  of  the  spiritual 
authority  inherent  in  that  line.  The  identity  of  this  individual 
and  the  means  of  ascertaining  his  identity  have  been  major 
issues  causing  divisions  among  Shias. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency  affiliated 
with  the  United  Nations  and  is  responsible  for  stabilizing  inter- 
national exchange  rates  and  payments.  The  main  business  of 
the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its  members  (including 
industrialized  and  developing  countries)  when  they  experience 


282 


Glossary 


balance  of  payments  difficulties.  These  loans  frequently  carry 
conditions  that  require  substantial  internal  economic  adjust- 
ments by  the  recipients,  most  of  which  are  developing  countries. 
Levant — Historically,  the  countries  along  the  eastern  shores  of  the 
Mediterranean. 

shaykh — Leader  or  chief.  Word  of  Arabic  origin  used  to  mean  either 
a  political  leader  or  a  learned  religious  leader.  Also  used  as  an 
honorific. 

Shia,  from  Shiat  Ali,  the  Party  of  Ali — A  member  of  the  smaller 
of  the  two  great  divisions  of  Islam.  The  Shias  supported  the 
claims  of  Ali  and  his  line  to  presumptive  right  to  the  caliphate 
and  to  leadership  of  the  Muslim  community,  and  on  this  issue 
they  divided  from  the  Sunni  (q.  v. )  in  the  great  schism  within 
Islam.  Later  schisms  have  produced  further  divisions  among 
the  Shias  over  the  identity  and  the  number  of  Imams  (q.v.). 
Shias  revere  Twelve  Imams,  the  last  of  whom  is  believed  to 
be  in  hiding. 

Shiite — See  Shia. 

Sunni  (from  sunna,  orthodox) — A  member  of  the  larger  of  the  two 
great  divisions  of  Islam.  The  Sunnis  supported  the  traditional 
method  of  election  to  the  caliphate,  and  they  accepted  the 
Umayyad  line  that  began  with  caliph  Muawiyah  in  661.  On 
this  issue  they  divided  from  the  Shias  (q.  v. )  in  the  great  schism 
within  Islam. 


283 


Index 


Abadan,  52,  137,  233,  234 
Abbasid  Dynasty,  xxiii,  20,  21,  92, 
99-100 

Abbasid  Empire,  4,  25-26,  99-100 

Abbasids,  3,  20-21,  23 

Abd  al  Abbas,  20 

Abd  al  Hamid  (sultan),  29 

Abd  al  Ilah,  45-49 

Abd  Allah,  18 

Abraham  (prophet),  9 

Abu  Bakr,  15,  17,  89 

Abu  Ghurayb,  255 

Abu  Musa,  60 

Abu  Muslim,  20 

Abu  Nidal,  208 

Abu  Nidal  Organization,  208 

Abu  Said  (Bahadur  the  Brave),  25 

Abu  Timman,  44 

Achaemenids,  12,  13 

Adams,  Robert  McCormick,  76 

Ad  Dawah  al  Islamiyah  (the  Islamic  Call), 

xxvi,  64-65,  198,  224,  251 
Ad  Dujayl,  244,  253 
Administrative  Court,  185 
Adruh,  18 
Afghanistan,  31 
Aflaq,  Michel,  53,  188,  194 
Agade,  9 

agrarian  reform  {see  also  land  reform;  rural 
society),  103-5,  157-59 

Agricultural  and  Industrial  Bank,  131 

Agricultural  Bank,  131,  132 

Agricultural  Census  (1971),  104 

agriculture  (see  also  agrarian  reform;  col- 
lectives; cooperatives;  irrigation;  land 
reform;  migration;  water  control),  xv- 
xvi,  76,  78,  153;  expansion  of,  156; 
grain  crops  of,  159-60;  production  in, 
153,  156-60;  rain-fed  and  irrigation 
crops,  159 

Ahali  government,  44 

Ahvaz,  233,  234 

aircraft,  combat  and  support,  xviii,  219 
aircraft,  commercial,  166-67 
Air  Defense  Command,  219,  221 
air  force,  xviii,  219,  233-34,  235 
air  force  training  college,  222 
airports,  xvii,  166-67 


Aisha,  17 
Akashat,  149 
Akhbari  school,  95 
Akkad,  9 

Akkadians,  xxiii,  9 
Akshak,  9 

Al  Ahd  (the  Covenant),  31 
Al  Amarah,  26,  74,  101,  166 
Al  Anbar,  116 

Al  Bakr  University  for  Higher  Military 

Studies,  222 
Al  Basrah,  20,  26,  98-99,  255-56 
Alexander,  3 

Alexander  the  Great,  12,  13,  14 
Al  Fatah,  209 

Al  Faw  Peninsula,  xxv,  xxix,  202,  241 
Al  Faw  terminal  and  port,  xvi,  31,  136, 

163,  238 
Algeria  as  mediator,  70 
Algiers  Agreement  (1975),  xxiv,  xxviii, 

5,  61,  70,  84 
Al  Habbaniyah,  39 
Al  Hadithah,  136,  154,  163,  166 
Al  Hillah,  34 
Al  Hirah,  16 
Ali  ibn  Muhammad,  23 
Ali  (imam),  94 

Al  Jamiya  al  Wataniya  al  Islamiya  (The 

Muslim  National  League),  34 
Al  Jazirah,  71 
Al  Kifl,  74 

Al  Kufah,  18,  19,  20,  116 

Al  Kut,  31,  34 

alluvial  plain  region,  74 

Al  Mamun  (caliph),  21,  92 

Al  Mansur,  21 

Al  Musayyib,  152,  165 

Al  Muthanna  Governorate,  80,  98 

Al  Qadisiyah,  16,  86,  96,  98,  116 

Al  Qadisiyah  Dam,  154 

Al  Qaim,  149 

Al  Qurnah,  74,  75,  166,  237 
Amin,  21 
Amman,  63,  209 
Ammash,  Salih  Mahdi,  188 
Amnesty  International,  224,  254 
Amorites,  10 
Amu  Darya,  16 


285 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Anatolia,  26 
Anayzah,  33 

Anayzah  tribal  confederation,  26 
Anglo-Iranian  Oil  Company,  133 
Anglo-Iraqi  Treaty  (1922),  36-37,  38,  39 
Anglo-Iraqi  Treaty  (1930),  39,  42-43,  46 
Anglo-Persian  Oil  Company  (see  also 
Anglo-Iranian  Oil  Company;  British 
Petroleum;  Turkish  Petroleum  Com- 
pany (TPC)),  133,  134-35 
Anglo-Turco-Iraqi  treaty  (1926),  38-39 
An  (god),  7 

An  Najaf,  19,  25,  31,  33,  34,  36,  63,  64, 

69,  94,  163,  232,  250,  251,  255 
An  Nasiriyah,  31,  144 
An  Nur,  107 
antiaircraft  guns,  218 
appliance  industry,  153 
Aqaba,  63 
Arab  civilization,  79 
Arabia,  15 

Arabian  Gulf  Academy  for  Naval  Studies, 
222 

Arabian  Peninsula,  26,  87,  206-7 
Arabic  language  (see  also  classical  Arabic; 

Iraqi   Arabic;    Modern  Standard 

Arabic),  xiv,  16,  81-82,  177 
Arab-Israeli  wars:  1948  war,  47-48,  136; 

June  1967  War,  57-58,  140,  203,  205; 

October  1973  War,  141,  203 
Arab  League  (League  of  Arab  States),  46, 

52,  60,  205,  208,  209,  210,  215 
Arab  Legion,  46 
Arab  Liberation  Front,  208,  229 
"Arab  Nation,  The,"  188 
Arab  Organization  of  the  15th  May,  208 
Arab  Revolt  (1916),  32 
Arab  Revolutionary  Movement,  57 
Arabs,  14,  15,  50-52,  81 
Arab  Ship  Repair  Yard,  241 
Arafat,  Yasir,  209 
Aramaeans,  14 
Aramaic  language,  13,  86 
arid  regions,  77 

Arif,  Abd  ar  Rahman,  54,  56-57,  228, 
249 

Arif,  Abd  as  Salaam,  49,  50,  53-55,  56, 
249 

armed  forces,  215,  217-27 

Armenian  language,  xiv 

Armenians,  xiv,  81,  86 

armored  vehicles,  218 

arms,  xviii;  artillery  pieces  as,  218; 


production  of,  xxviii-xxix;  purchases 

of,  203-4,  205,  229-30 
army  (see  also  Ideological  Army  (Al  Jaysh 

al  Aqidi)),  xviii,  36,  52,  217;  Iraqi 

Communist  Party  activity  in,  248-49; 

morale  problems  of,  222-23;  reserves 

of,  217 
Ar  Ramadi,  74 
Ar  Rutbah,  78,  95,  163 
Arsacids,  14 
Ash  Shabana  tribe,  102 
Ash  Shaykh  ash  Shuyukh,  163 
Ash  Shinafiyah,  155 
Ash  Shuaybah,  219 
Ashur,  11 

Ashurbanipal  (king),  11 

Ashurnasirpal,  11 

Askari,  Jafar  al,  32,  37,  44 

Assad,  Hafiz  al,  63,  194,  209 

As  Samawah,  74 

As  Samitah,  60 

As  Sulaymaniyah,  xxiv,  77,  83,  106,  118 
As  Sulaymaniyah  Governorate,  xiv,  186 
Assyria,  3,  10,  12 
Assyrian  Rebellion  (1918),  41 
Assyrians,  xiv,  xxiii,  11,  12,  33,  40,  41, 

81,  86 
atabegs,  24,  25 
Atatiirk,  38 

Atatiirk  Dam  reservoir,  156 
Autonomous  Region,  xvii,  177,  186-87 
Autonomy  Agreement  (1970),  186-87, 
196 

auto  parts  industry,  153 
Axis  countries,  45,  46 
Azarbaijan,  25,  83 
Aziz,  Tariq,  64,  200,  204 
Az  Zubayr,  143 

Baath  (Arab  Socialist  Resurrection)  Party 
(see  also  National  Command:  Baath 
Party;  pan-Arab  concepts;  Regional 
Command:  Baath  Party;  Revolution- 
ary Command  Council  (RCC)),  5,  50, 
51,  53-54,  57,  61,  64,  87,  104-5,  110; 
altered  perceptions  of,  207-9;  control 
of  army  by,  242-43;  creation  of,  188; 
economic  focus  of,  192;  first  govern- 
ment of  (1963),  189;  focus  on  domes- 
tic issues  by,  189,  192;  link  to 
Revolutionary  Command  Council  of, 
179;  militia  of  (People's  Army),  xxv, 


286 


Index 


59,  224-25;  opposition  to,  96-97,  176, 
195-96,  197-99;  organization  and  func- 
tion of,  192-94;  principles  and  pan- 
Arab  goals  of,  xvii,  xxiii,  175-76,  186, 
187-88,  192,  215,  228;  relations  with 
Iraqi  Communist  Party,  194-96, 
248-49;  role  in  foreign  policy  of,  200; 
supervision  of  Autonomous  Region  by, 
187,  196 

Baath  Revolution.  See  coups  d'etat 
Baban  Dynasty,  26 
Babylon,  xxiii,  3,  10-14,  256 
Babylon  Governorate,  80,  104 
Badush,  155 

Baghdad,  xvi,  xvii,  xxiii,  xxvi,  3,  4,  16,  19, 
21,  24,  25,  26,  27,  29,  30,  31,  34,  39, 
44,  48,  49,  54,  74,  75,  79,  94,  95,  105-9, 
117,  118,  145,  149,  163,  164,  165,  166, 
194,  209,  210,  219,  221,  222;  adminis- 
trative status  of,  186;  bombing  of,  202 

Baghdad  Governorate,  80,  98-99,  117 

Baghdad  Pact  (1955),  49,  228 

Baghdad  Television,  199 

Baghdad  Treaty,  216 

Bahadur  the  Brave,  25 

Bahrain,  206,  241 

Bahr  al  Milh  (Sea  of  Salt),  74 

Baiji  refinery  and  fertilizer  plant,  xvi,  145, 
152 

Bakhtaran,  233,  234 

Bakr,  Ahmad  Hasan  al,  xxiv,  53,  58-59, 

64,  175,  178,  182,  186,  188-89,  194, 

204,  243 
Baku,  133 
Balkh,  24 

Bani  Isad  tribe,  102 

Bani  Lam  tribal  confederation,  26 

Baniyas,  136 

banking  industry,  55,  131-32 

Baqir  as  Sadr,  Ayatollah  Muhammad, 

64-65,  198 
Baqubah,  xxvii,  76 
barley,  159 

barrages,  74,  75,  154-55 
barter  agreements,  126,  169 
Barzani,  Idris,  61,  62,  248 
Barzani,  Masud,  62,  84,  196,  248 
Barzani,    Mustafa   (mullah),    52,  56, 

60-62,  84,  196 
Barzani,  Ubaydallah,  196 
Basij  volunteers  (Iranian),  234-36 
Basra,  xvi,  xvii,  xxvii,  xxix,  16,  17,  25, 

27,  23,  31,  39,  40,  45,  69,  75,  79-80, 


95,  99,  105-6,  117,  118,  150,  162,  163, 
165,  218,  219,  234,  237,  238;  Iranian 
offensives  near,  202;  oil  industry  in, 
136;  as  port,  166 
Basrah  Petroleum  Company  (BPC),  136, 
141 

Batatu,  Hanna,  35 

Battle  of  Buwayb,  16 

Battle  of  Majnun,  237 

Battle  of  the  Chains,  15 

Battle  of  the  Marshes,  237 

Bazargan,  Mehdi,  64 

Bazzaz,  Abd  ar  Rahman,  55,  56 

Beirut,  29 

Bitar,  Salah  ad  Din  al,  53,  188 
Black  June,  208 

Board  of  Regulation  of  Trade,  171 
Bokhara,  24 

border  agreement:  with  Iran  (1975),  61; 

with  Saudi  Arabia  (1975),  71 
border  disputes  {see  also  Shatt  al  Arab; 

thalweg),  40,  70 
Border  Guard,  252 
border  with  Kuwait,  70 
Bosporus,  24 
Brazil,  xvi,  170 
brick  industry,  149 
brigades,  xviii,  217 

Britain:  control  of  industry  by,  38;  Iraq 
as  mandate  of,  xxiii,  5,  32-35,  130-31, 
134,  228;  Iraqi  relations  with,  204;  oc- 
cupation of  Iraq  by,  31-34,  45-46;  oil 
company  ownership  by,  133;  relation- 
ship with  Assyrians,  41 ;  role  in  Iraq  in 
Second  World  War,  46;  role  in  Iraq  of, 
5,  31-32;  role  in  Palestine  revolt,  45; 
sale  of  arms  from,  228;  trade  with  Iraq 
of,  xvi,  170 

British  Oil  Development  Company 
(BODC)  {see  also  Mosul  Petroleum 
Company  (MPC)),  135-36 

British  Petroleum,  133 

Bubiyan,  60 

Buhayrat  al  Habbaniyah  (lake),  74 
Buhayrat  ath  Tharthar  (lake),  74 
Buwayhids,  23 
Byzantine  Empire,  15,  16 


cabinet.  See  Council  of  Ministers 
Cairo  Conference  (1921),  35,  36 
Camp  David  Accords  (1978),  xxiv,  63, 
205,  216 


287 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


capital  flight,  146 
Caspian  Sea,  23,  133 
cement  industry,  55,  152 
Central  Bank  of  Iraq,  131 
Central  Petroleum  Organization  (CPO), 
142,  144 

CFP.    See  Compagnie   Francaise  des 

Petroles-Total 
Chaldeans,  xxiii,  11 
Chaldean  (Uniate)  church,  86 
chemical  industry,  152 
chemical  warfare,  xxvi,  237,  238 
China,  24 

Chinggis  (Genghis)  Khan,  24-25 
Christian  Crusaders,  24 
Christians,  xiv,  15,  41,  86,  87;  court  sys- 
tem of,  184 
cigarette  industry,  152 
classical  Arabic,  81 
Clayton,  Gilbert,  39 
climate,  77-78 

Code  of  Hammurabi,  xxiii,  10 

collectives,  xxv,  158-59 

communism,  50,  51,  52 

Conference  on  Disarmament  (1986),  238 

Compagnie  Francaise  des  Petroles-Total, 
126,  134,  135 

conscription/conscripts,  xviii,  220-21,  244 

Constituent  Assembly  (1924),  37 

constitution  (see  also  Provisional  Consti- 
tution), 51;  new,  xxvi,  xxx 

construction  companies,  foreign,  167,  168 

construction  industry,  xv,  55 

Cooperative  Bank,  131 

cooperatives,  agricultural,  104,  157-58 

corvettes,  xviii,  218 

cotton,  160 

Council  of  Ministers,  178,  182,  184 
coups  d'etat:  in  1936,  44,  49;  in  1941,  5, 
45-46,  47,  48,  49;  in  1958,  3,  5,  49, 
109,  137,  146,  228;  1959  attempt,  51, 
188-89;  1963  (February,  November), 
52-53,  54,  189,  243;  1965  attempt,  55; 
in  1968,  57,  146,  175,  189;  1970  at- 
tempt, 243,  255;  1973  attempt,  59,  216, 
255;  1982  attempt,  244 
Court  of  Cassation,  xvii,  185,  187,  254, 
255 

court  system  (see  also  Administrative 
Court;  Court  of  Cassation;  military 
courts;  religious  court  system;  Revolu- 
tionary Court),  184-85,  254-55;  appel- 
late districts  of,  184 


Cox,  Percy,  32,  33,  35,  37 
CPO.  See  Central  Petroleum  Organiza- 
tion (CPO) 
credit.  See  debt,  external 
Crete,  46 

Creusot-Loire,  152 

Ctesiphon,  16 

cuneiform,  xxiii,  6-7 

currency  (see  also  Iraqi  dinar),  xv,  130-31 

current  account,  123 

Cyrus,  3,  12 

Cyrus  the  Great,  xxiii,  12 


Dahuk,  xxiv,  41,  69,  83,  106 
Dahuk  Governorate,  xiv,  186 
Damascus,  11,  19,  20,  32,  194 
dam  construction,  153-55 
Damin,  Abd  ar  Rahman  ad,  188 
Darband,  154 
Darius,  3 

Darius  the  Great,  12 
date  industry,  160 
Daud,  Ibrahim  ad,  27,  57 
Daylam,  23 

debt,  external,  xxviii,  126,  169,  230 
debt,  military,  230 
Decree  Number  652,  128 
Dehloran,  234 

Democratic  National  Front  (DNF),  Kur- 
dish, 250 

Department  of  General  Intelligence.  See 

Mukhabarat 
desert  conditions,  78 
desert  zone,  71 
Dezful,  220,  233,  234 
Dhi  Qar  Governorate,  98 
diseases,  xiv,  117-18 
divisions,  xviii,  217 
divorce,  113 
Diyala,  75 

Diyala  Governorate,  76,  98 

Diyala  River,  77 

Dobbs,  Henry,  37 

Dortyol  terminal,  xvi,  126,  142 

Doshen-Tappen,  233 

drainage,  155 

drought,  83 

Dubayy,  241 

due  process  of  law,  177-78 
Dukan,  154 
Dulles,  Allen,  52 
Durah  refinery,  145 


288 


Index 


duststorms,  78 

Dutch  Shell  Group,  134 


economic  agreement  with  Soviet  Union 

(1959),  51 
economic  assistance  from  Persian  Gulf 

states,  207 
economic  development:  industrial,  1 24- 

25;  transportation,  162-67 
economic  planning,  55,  127 
economic  policy:  under  Baath  regime, 

xxv-xxvi,  123-24,  127-30 
education  facilities  {see  also  school  system), 

xiv,  109,  114,  116,  254 
Egypt,  xxiv,  9,  18,  21,  46,  57,  63,  215; 

Iraqi  relations  with,  xxviii,  202;  mili- 
tary aid  from,  208 
Egyptians  in  Iraq,  105 
Elamites,  10 

elections:  1922,  37;  1980,  1984,  176,  181 
Electoral  Law  (1922),  37 
electric  power,  167-68 
electrification,  rural,  167 
electronics  industry,  153 
Elf  Aquitaine,  126 

Entreprise  des  Recherches  et  des  Activites 

Petrolieres  (ERAP),  140 
Eridu,  3,  7,  9 

Eritrean  Liberation  Front,  229 
Ethiopia,  9 

ethnic  minorities  {see  also  Kurds),  82-86; 

tension,  189 
Euphrates  delta,  15 

Euphrates  (Furat)  River,  xiv,  3,  6,  10,  16, 
17,  21,  27,  30,  31,  35,  40,  71,  74,  75, 
101,  118,  153,  155-56,  166 

Euphrates  River  vafley,  34,  154,  163 

Europe,  10 

Europe-Persian  Gulf  railroad  route,  166 
export,  xvi,  142,  143,  148,  149-50;  of 
agricultural  products,  160,  169;  of  elec- 
tric power,  168;  promotion  of  and 
licensing  for,  171 
Export  Subsidy  Fund,  171 
expropriation  of  land,  157-58 


Faili  Kurds,  83 
Faisal  (as  prince),  32,  35 
Faisal  I  (as  king),  xxiii,  xxviii,  35-37,  39, 
41,  42 

Faisal  II  (king),  3,  45,  49 


family  law.  See  Law  of  Personal  Status 

(1959,  1963) 
family  structure,  110-14 
Fathah,  155 
Fatima,  17,  89 
fertilizer  industry,  149-52 
First  Baghdad  International  Exhibition 

for  Military  Production,  xxix 
fiscal  policy,  148 
fishing  industry,  162 
Five-Year  Plan:  First  (1965-70),  55; 

Fourth  (1981-85),  127;  Fifth  (1986- 

90),  127,  144 
flood  control,  3,  6,  75,  77,  154 
floods,  6,  14,  27,  71,  74,  75,  154,  155 
flour  mills,  55 

food  processing  and  packaging  industry, 
xv,  152 

foreign  policy,  49,  52,  200-209 
foreign  relations.  See  specific  countries  by 
name 

foreign  trade,  131,  166 

Foundation  of  Technical  Institutes,  116 

France,  133-34,  136,  140,  152;  Iraqi  re- 
lations with,  xviii,  xxiv,  204-5;  sale  of 
aircraft,  armaments  and  weapons  from, 
xxviii,  203,  205,  219,  228,  230-31; 
trade  with  Iraq  of,  170 

Free  Officers'  Movement,  45,  50,  51,  53, 
109 

frigates,  xviii,  218 
Frontier  Guard,  xviii,  252 
Futuwah,  xviii 

Gailani,  Abd  ar  Rahman  al,  37 

GDP.  See  gross  domestic  product  (GDP) 

General  Establishment  for  Import  and 

Export.  See  Ministry  of  Trade 
General  Federation  of  Iraqi  Chambers  of 

Commerce  and  Industry,  130 
General  Organization  of  Exports,  171 
Geneva  Protocol  (1925),  238 
geographic  zones,  71 
geography,  xiii-xiv,  71-75 
Germany,  31;  under  Nazis,  45,  46 
Germany,  Federal  Republic,  152-53; 

Iraqi  relations  with,  204;  trade  with 

Iraq  of,  xvi,  170 
Ghazali,  Abu  Hamid  al,  24 
Ghazi  (king),  xxviii,  42-45 
Gilgamesh,  7 
glass  industry,  149 


289 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


government  administration:  decentralized 
nature  of,  3-4;  effect  of  rural-to-urban 
migration  on,  4-5;  local,  185-86 

government  role,  102-3;  in  economic 
planning,  127;  in  medical  services  and 
health  care,  117 

governorate  administration,  xvii,  185-  87 

Greater  and  Lesser  Tunbs,  60 

The  Great  Iraqi  Revolution  (Ath  Thawra 
al  Iraqiyya  Kubra):  1920,  35 

Great  Zab  River,  75,  155 

Greek  period,  14 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP),  xv,  124, 
125,  153 

gross  national  product  (GNP),  142 
guerrillas:  Kurdish,  52,  77,  84-85,  106, 
196,  210,  215;  Palestinian,  225,  229 
Gulbenkian,  Caloust,  133-35 
Gulf  Cooperation  Council  (GCC),  245 
Gulf  of  Aqaba,  143 
Guti,  9 


Habash,  George,  208 
Habbaniyah,  154 
hadith,  87 
Haifa,  48,  136 
Hakim  family,  199 

Hakim,  Muhammad  Baqir  al,  198,  251 

Hakkari  Mountains,  33 

Halabjah,  60,  238 

Hamadan,  2345 

Hammadi,  Saadun,  181 

Hammurabi  (king),  3,  10 

Hanafi  school  of  jurisprudence,  91,  184 

Hanbali  school,  91 

Hanging  Gardens  of  Babylon,  xxiii,  11 

Haras  al  Istiqlal  (The  Guardians  of  Inde- 
pendence), 34 

Harun  ar  Rashid,  21,  92 

Hasan,  18 

Hashim,  20 

Hashimi,  Yasin  al,  44 

Hashimite  (or  Hashemite)  monarchy, 
xxiii,  5,  49 

Hawizah  Marshes,  237 

Hawr  al  Hammar,  74 

health  care,  xiv,  117-18 

helicopters,  228 

Hellenization,  14 

Herkki  tribe,  83 

highland  region,  northeast,  71,  73 
Hijaz,  17 


hijra  (hegira),  87 
Hindiyah  Barrage,  74,  155 
Hindiyah  Channel,  74 
Hit,  71 
Hittites,  10 

housing  projects.  See  An  Nur;  Madinat 

ath  Thawra:  Saddam  City 
Hulagu  Khan,  25 
Husayn,  Barazan,  253 
Husayn  ibn  Ali,  32 
Husayn  (imam),  19,  94 
Hussein  (king  of  Jordan),  xxviii,  49,  63, 

209 

"hydraulic  despotism,"  154 


Ibn  Yusuf  ath  Thaqafi  al  Aajjay,  20 
Ibrahim,  Izzat,  xvii,  179,  182 
ICOO.  See  Iraqi  Company  for  Oil  Oper- 
ations (ICOO) 
Ideological  Army  (Al  Jaysh  al  Aqidi), 

242-43 
imam,  88 

Imamate,  91-92,  94 

imports,  xvi,  147-48,  151,  168;  of  agricul- 
tural products,  162;  of  capital  goods 
and  durables,  169;  with  concessions, 
169;  of  food,  153,  169;  licenses  for,  171 

import  substitution  policy,  147-48,  170 

independence  (1932),  3,  40,  79,  216 

Independent  Democrats:  Kurdish,  197 

India,  10,  34 

Indus  River,  13 

Industrial  Bank,  131,  132 

industrial  development,  145-53 

inflation,  xxix,  48,  125 

infrastructure  development,  147,  162-67, 
245 

INOC.  See  Iraq  National  Oil  Company 
(INOC) 

insurance  industry,  55 

internal  security,  247-56 

International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA),  205,  231-32 

International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross 
(ICRC),  xxvii,  210,  246 

International  Labour  Organisation 
(ILO),  210 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF),  210 

International  Telecommunications  Satel- 
lite Organization  (INTELSAT),  167 

Intersputnik  satellite  station,  167 


290 


Index 


investment,  144;  in  agriculture,  125; 
by  Government,  145-46;  in  industry, 
124-25,  145;  by  private  sector,  149 
IPC.  See  Iraq  Petroleum  Company  (IPC) 
Iran,  10,  25,  31,  33,  40,  44,  46,  52, 
59-60,  64,  75,  83,  94,  133,  137;  aid  to 
Kurdish  Democratic  party  by,  196, 

247-  48;  border  treaty  (Baghdad 
Treaty)  with  (1975),  215,  216;  border 
with  Iraq,  70;  early  rulers  of  Iraq, 
12-14;  hegemony  in  Persian  Gulf  of, 
xv,  200;  invasion  by  Iraqi  troops:  1980, 
xv,  5-6,  200,  215;  Iraq  border  with,  4; 
Iraqi  perception  of,  207;  Islamic  Revo- 
lution in,  62;  military  assistance  from, 
61;  oil  exploration  with  Iraq,  56 

Iranian  forces,  99 
Iranians,  13-16 

Iran- Iraq  War  (see  also  tanker  war),  xvi, 
xxiii,  xxv,  xxvi-xxvii,  xxviii,  65,  69-70, 
232-40;  casualties'  impact  on  armed 
forces,  245-46;  cease-fire  of,  xxviii;  cost 
for  Iraq  of,  123-24,  244-45;  effect  of, 
xxix-xxx,  127-30,  148,  160,  176-77, 
207-8;  effect  on  foreign  relations  of, 
202;  effect  on  foreign  trade  of,  168;  as 
foreign  policy  issue,  202,  200;  impor- 
tance of  transportation  for,  162;  Iraq 
military  in,  217-20;  Kurdish  sympathy 
with  Iran  in,  248;  naval  operations  in, 
240 

Iraq  Currency  Board,  130-31 
Iraqi  Arabic,  81 
Iraqi  Arab  Socialist  Union,  54 
Iraqi  Aviation  Company,  130 
Iraqi  Broadcasting  and  Television  Estab- 
lishment, 167 
Iraqi  Communist  Party  (ICP),  xvii,  47, 
51,  53,  61,  83,  194-96,  198,  247, 

248-  50 

Iraqi  Company  for  Oil  Operations 
(ICOO),  141,  142 

Iraqi  dinar,  130-31 

Iraqi  Federation  of  Industries,  149 

Iraqi  Red  Crescent,  210 

Iraqi-Soviet  Joint  Commission  on  Eco- 
nomic and  Technical  Cooperation,  145 

Iraqi  State  Railways,  166 

Iraq  Levies,  41 

Iraq  Life  Insurance  Company,  132 
Iraq  National  Oil  Company  (INOC),  50, 

57,  137-42,  144 
Iraq  Petroleum  Company  (IPC)  (see  also 


Iraq  National  Oil  Company  (INOC)), 

38,  50,  56-57,  135-42 
Iraq  Reinsurance  Company,  132 
Irbil,  xxiv,  77,  83,  85,  106,  116,  118 
Irbil  Governorate,  xiv,  186-87 
iron  and  steel  industry,  152 
irrigation  systems,  xxiii,  3,  75,  77,  154 
Islam  (see  also  Shia  Islam;  Sunni  Islam), 

xiv,  xxiii,  15,  16,  19-20,  23,  81,  86;  as 

state  religion,  177;  tenets  of,  86-90 
Islamic  Call.  See  Ad  Dawah  al  Islamiyah 

(the  Islamic  Call) 
Islamic  Development  Bank,  151 
Islamic  jurisprudence,  184 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  64 
Islamic  Revolution  (1979),  62,  63,  64, 

206,  207,  215,  247,  251 
Ismailis,  95 
Ismail  Shah,  26 

Israel:  aid  to  Kurdish  Democratic  Party 
by,  196;  attitude  of  Baath  Party  toward, 
203;  Baath  Party  relations  with,  208- 
9;  destruction  of  nuclear  facility  by, 
231;  military  aid  from,  61;  state  of, 
69 

Israeli-Egyptian  peace  treaty,  215,  216 
Istanbul,  29 

Italy,  134;  Iraqi  relations  with,  204;  trade 
with  Iraq  of,  xvi,  170 

Jacobite  (Syrian  Orthodox)  church,  86 
Jafari  school  of  jurisprudence,  184 
Jalabi,  Isam  Abd  ar  Rahim  al,  143-44 
Jalayirids,  25 
Jamil  al  Midfai,  32 

Jamiyat  an  Nahda  al  Islamiya  (League  of 
the  Islamic  Awakening),  33-34 

Japan:  economic  assistance  by,  149;  Iraqi 
relations  with,  204;  trade  with  Iraq  by, 
xvi,  169-70 

Jasim,  Latif  Nayyif,  64 

Jassin,  Sattar  Ahmad,  219 

Jerusalem,  11 

jet  fighters,  228 

Jews,  xiv,  12,  48,  86,  87;  court  system  of, 

184;  emigration  of,  108 
Joint  Presidency  Council,  54 
joint  stock  companies,  148 
Jordan,  xviii,  18,  49,  57,  63,  71,  142,  143, 

163;  Iraqi  relations  with,  xxviii,  202 
Jubur,  32 
Judah,  11 


291 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


judicial  system  {see  also  court  system;  mili- 
tary courts),  xvii,  184-85,  254 
Jumailah  tribe,  54,  55 
June  1967  War.  See  Arab- Israeli  wars 

Kaaba,  87 

Karbala,  19,  20,  25,  31,  32,  34,  36,  64, 

69,  94,  251,  255 
Karun  River,  75,  233,  234 
Kassites,  10 

Kazzar,  Nazim,  59,  243,  253 

KDP.  See  Kurdish  Democratic  Party 

(KDP) 
Khabur  River,  74,  75 
Khairallah,  Adnan,  219 
Khan,  154 
Khanaqin,  xvi,  83 
Kharajites,  18 
Kharasan,  Hashim  al,  144 
Khardeh  River,  233 
Khark  Island,  237,  238 
Khawr  al  Amayah,  xxix 
Khawr  al  Amayah  terminal,  xvi,  142,  166 
Khawr  az  Zubayr,  xvi,  152,  163 
Khoi,  Sayyid  Abu  al  Qasim  al,  251 
Khomeini,  Ayatollah  Sayyid  Ruhollah 

Musavi,  xxiv,  63,  64,  217,  232,  233, 

250-51 
Khorasan,  20,  21,  23-24 
Khorramshahr,  95,  234 
Khudari,  Abd  al  Khaliq  al,  188 
Khuzestan,  52,  61,  233,  234 
Khwarizm  shahs,  24 
Kinik  group,  23 
kinship  groups,  110-12 
Kirkuk,  51,  53,  61,  71,  73,  83,  84,  106, 

118,  142,  163,  219;  oil  industry  in,  133, 

134,  136-37,  142 
Kirmanji  (Karamanji)  language,  84 
Kish,  9 
Konya,  31 

Korea,  Republic  of,  163 
Kufah,  16 

Kurdish  Democratic  Party  (KDP),  60-62, 
83,  84,  196,  198,  247;  split  in,  196-97 
Kurdish  Progressive  Group,  196 
Kurdish  resistance,  xxx,  5,  41,  62,  247-48 
Kurdish  Revolutionary  Party,  196 
Kurdistan,  xvii,  26,  27,  33,  61,  77, 
186-87,  196,  198,  202,  223,  225,  248, 
249 

Kurds,  xiv,  xxiv,  5,  26,  37-39,  40,  41, 


45,  50,  51-52,  54,  61,  73,  81,  189;  Au- 
tonomous Region  for,  177,  186,  196; 
concentration  in  Iraq  of,  82-83;  culture 
of,  84;  guerrilla  activity  of,  52,  77, 
84-85,  106,  196,  210,  215;  language  of, 
xiv,  56,  84,  177;  military  cooperation 
with  Iran  of,  202,  207;  political  parties 
of,  196-97;  rebellion  of,  56,  186,  196, 
216,  222-23,  233;  tribal  affiliation  of, 
83 

Kut  Barrage,  75 

Kuwait,  xxv,  40,  52,  60,  143,  145,  163, 
241,  245;  border  with  Iraq,  70;  eco- 
nomic assistance  of,  207;  Iraqi  relations 
with,  202,  206-7;  trade  with  Iraq  by, 
170 


labor  force:  agriculture,  xv,  153,  158;  in- 
dustrial, xv,  148-49,  152 
labor  law,  128 
Lagash,  9 

land  ownership  (see  also  expropriation  of 

land),  177 
land  reform,  xxiv,  4,  27,  29,  42,  46,  50, 

104 

land  reform  law  (see  also  Lazmah  land  re- 
form (1932)),  42,  46,  156,  157 

land  tenure  system,  156-57 

languages,  84,  177;  Arabic,  xiv,  16, 
81-82,  177;  Aramaic,  13,  86;  Arme- 
nian, xiv;  Kurdish,  xiv,  56,  84,  177; 
Persian,  xiv,  16;  Turkic,  xiv,  69;  Turk- 
ish, 30,  85 

Larak  Island,  238 

Larsa,  9 

Law  Number  80  (see  also  oil  industry), 
137,  140 

Law  Number  60  for  Major  Development 

Projects,  170-71 
Law  of  Personal  Status  (1959,  1963), 

111-12,  113-14 
Lazmah  land  reform  (1932),  42,  46,  156 
League  of  Nations,  5,  37,  38,  39,  40,  41 
League  of  Nations  Covenant,  32 
leather  industry,  152 
Lebanon,  46,  48,  63,  136,  225,  228,  229 
legal  system,  184 
Levant,  46 
Libya,  140 

licensing  for  foreign  trade,  170-71 
Little  Zab  River,  75 
livestock,  162 


292 


Index 


local  government.  See  governorate  ad- 
ministration 
Long-Berenger  Agreement  (1919),  38 


machinery  industry,  152 
Madain,  16 

Madan  (Marsh  Arabs),  27,  76-77 

Madinat  ath  Thawra,  107 

Mahmud  II,  27 

Malek  Shah,  24 

Maliki  school,  91 

Mamluks,  23,  27 

manufacturing,  xv 

Marduk  (god),  13 

Marr,  Phebe,  57,  232 

marriage,  112,  113 

Mar  Shamun,  41 

Maruf,  Taha  Muhy  ad  Din,  xvii,  182, 
184 

Mashhad,  92,  94 
Maude,  Stanley,  31-32 
Mecca,  15,  19,  26,  32,  35,  87 
Medes,  11 

medical  facilities,  xiv-xv,  117 
Medina  (see  also  Yathrib),  17,  35,  87 
Mediterranean  Sea,  xvi,  10,  11,  136,  140, 

142,  163 
Mehrabad,  233 
Mehran,  238 
Merv,  20,  21,  24,  92 
Mesopotamia,  xxiii,  3,  6-7,  9-15,  65, 

133-34 
Midhat  Pasha,  27,  29 
migration,  xxx,  4,  6,  83,  98-99,  104;  to 

cities,  105-8,  158 
Milhat  ath  Tharthar,  77 
military  assistance,  61,  228-30 
military  budget,  xviii,  244-45 
Military  College,  188,  219,  244 
Military  Court  of  Cassation,  223 
military  courts,  223 

military  equipment  (see  also  arms),  xviii, 

203,  218 
military  intervention,  241-42 
Military  Service  and  Pension  Law,  223 
Mina  al  Bakr  terminal,  xvi,  xxix,  142, 

166 

mineral  industry,  nonmetallic,  xv,  149-52 
Ministry  of  Culture  and  Information, 

167,  199-200 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  200 
Ministry  of  Guidance,  199 


Ministry  of  Health,  117 

Ministry  of  Heavy  Industry,  148 

Ministry  of  Industry,  148 

Ministry  of  Justice,  xvii,  184 

Ministry  of  Labor  and  Social  Affairs,  255 

Ministry  of  Oil,  142,  144 

Ministry  of  Planning,  104 

Ministry  of  Trade,  170 

Mirza  Muhammad  Riza,  34 

Mishraq,  149 

missiles,  218,  219,  228 

Mitterand,  Francois,  231 

Mobile  Force,  252 

Modern  Standard  Arabic,  81 

monetary  policy,  131 

Mongol  invasion,  24-25,  27,  79,  154 

Mongols,  xxiii 

Morocco,  21 

Mortgage  Bank,  131 

Mosul,  24,  30,  31,  34,  40,  41,  51,  53,  71, 
73,  85,  95,  106,  118,  149,  152,  154,  163, 
165,  166,  219;  oil  industry  in,  133,  136 

Mosul  Petroleum  Company  (MPC),  136 

Mosul  Province,  37-39 

motor  vehicle  industry,  152-53 

Muawiyah,  17,  18,  19,  89 

Mubarak,  Husni,  xxviii 

Mudarrissi,  Muhammad  Taqi  al,  199 

Muhammad,  Aziz,  250 

Muhammad  (prophet),  xxiii,  15,  16,  17, 
18,  32,  35,  86,  87-91 

Muharram,  94 

Mukhabarat,  xviii,  252,  253 

Muntafiq  tribal  confederation,  26 

Murad  IV,  26 

Mustafa  Kamal.  See  Atatiirk 

Mutasim  (caliph),  23 

Naft-e  Shah,  56 
Naft  Khaneh,  56 
Najd,  26 

Nasser,  Gamal  Abdul,  40,  49,  53,  54-55, 
58 

National  Action  Charter,  186,  189,  194, 
195 

National  Assembly,  xvii,  176,  178;  organ- 
ization and  function  of,  181 

National  Bank  of  Iraq  (see  also  Central 
Bank  of  Iraq),  131 

National  Command:  Baath  Party,  193-94 

National  Company  for  Aviation  Services, 
130 


293 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


National  Council  of  Revolutionary  Com- 
mand (NCRC),  53,  54 

National  Defense  Council,  56 

National  Guard,  54 

nationalism,  5,  29,  33-36,  39,  42-47,  51, 
52,  96;  of  Kurds,  83 

nationalization,  55,  57,  131.  141,  146 

National  Life  Insurance  Company,  132 

natural  gas,  xv;  use,  liquefaction  and 
pipeline  for,  144-45 

navy,  xviii,  218 

Nayif,  Abd  ar  Razzaq  an,  55,  57 

NCRC.  See  National  Council  of  Revolu- 
tionary Command  (NCRC) 

Near  East  Development  Corporation,  134 

Nebuchadnezzar  (king),  11 

Nestorian  church,  86 

Neutral  Zone  (Iraq-Saudi  Arabia),  xiv, 
71,  143,  207 

New  Delhi,  210 

newspapers,  199 

Neyshabur,  24 

Nineveh,  11,  69,  256 

Nineveh  Governorate,  104 

Nizam  al  Mulk,  24 

Non-Aligned  Movement,  202,  203,  210, 
228 

Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT),  205 
Northern   Petroleum  Organization 

(NPO),  142,  144 
North  Rumaylah  field,  137,  141,  145 
NPO.  See  Northern  Petroleum  Organiza- 
tion (NPO) 


officer  corps,  109 

Oghuz  Turks,  23 

oil  companies,  foreign,  140-41 

Oil  Exploration  Company,  144 

oil  industry  {see  also  natural  gas),  xv,  xxix, 
4,  38,  48,  50,  56,  133;  drilling  rights 
of,  71;  effect  of  Iran-Iraq  War  on,  168; 
exports  of,  142-43,  168;  fields,  73,  137, 
141,  145;  hydrocarbon  reserves  of,  144; 
investment  in,  144,  145;  refining  sec- 
tor of,  145;  revenues  of,  109,  123-25, 
127,  137,  141-43,  146,  148,  203,  245; 
service  agreements  with  oil  companies, 
140-41;  terminals  in  Iraq  for,  142; 
transportation  for,  142 

oil  pipelines.  See  pipelines,  oil 

Oman,  62,  206-7 


OPEC.  See  Organization  of  Petroleum 
Exporting  Countries  (OPEC) 

Operation  Dawn  V,  236 

Operation  Ramadan,  234 

Operation  Undeniable  Victory,  234 

opposition  groups,  188 

opposition  (to  Baath)  organizations, 
197-99 

Organic  Law,  37 

Organization  of  Arab  Petroleum  Export- 
ing Countries,  210 
Organization  of  Islamic  Action,  199,  251 
Organization  of  Petroleum  Exporting 
Countries  (OPEC),  137-43,  203,  210 
Osiraq  nuclear  reactor,  168,  204-5,  231 
Ottoman  Decentralization  Party,  29 
Ottoman  Empire,  4,  29-31,  38,  45,  70, 
79,  87,  98,  133,  135,  216,  220,  228 
Ottoman  Land  Code  (1858),  156 
Ottoman  Turks,  xxiii,  3,  25-26,  27 
Oxus  River,  16,  23 

Pachachi,  Hamdi  al,  46 
Palestine,  11,  32,  136;  partition  of  (1947), 
47 

Palestine  Liberation  Front,  208 
Palestine  Liberation  Organization  (PLO), 

xxviii,  208 
Palestine  revolt  (1936-39),  45 
pan-Arab  concepts,  44,  54,  58,  175,  228, 
232;  of  economic  unity,  177;  "The 
Arab  Nation,"  188,  189,  192 
paper  industry,  152 

paramilitary  forces  (see  also  Futuwah 

(Youth  Vanguard));  People's  Army, 

xviii,  217,  224-25 
Paris  Peace  Conference  (1919),  32 
Parthians  (or  Arsacids),  14 
Pasdaran  (Iranian  Revolutionary  Guard), 

233,  234-36 
Patriotic  Union  of  Kurdistan  (PUK),  62, 

83,  84,  197,  198,  248 
patrol  boats,  218 
penal  code  (1969),  253 
Penal  Code  of  the  Popular  Army,  224 
People's  Army  (Al  Jaysh  ash  Shaabi)  (see 

also  Baath  (Arab  Socialist  Resurrection 

Party)),  xviii,  xxv,  xxvii,  217,  224,  250, 

252 

People's  Democratic  Republic  of  Yemen, 

60,  62-63 
People's  Militia.  See  People's  Army 


294 


Index 


People's  Resistance  Force,  50,  51 
Perez  de  Cuellar,  Javier,  xxvii,  238 
Permanent  Bureau  of  the  Arab  Jurists' 

Federation,  xxvi 
Persia.  See  Iran 
Persian  Empire,  12-13 
Persian  Gulf,  xvi,  xxviii,  10,  13,  27,  56, 

61,  74,  135,  136,  140,  141,  155,  163, 

200,  216,  237,  238 
Persian  language,  xiv,  16 
Pesh  Merga,  60,  61 
petrochemical  industry,  152 
petroleum  sector.  See  oil  industry 
Petroline,  xvi 
Phoenicia,  11,  14 
phosphate  rock  industry,  149 
physicians,  117 
pipelines,  gas,  144 

pipelines,  oil,  xvvi,  xxix,  48,  56-57,  135, 
136,  140,  142-43,  209,  210 

plague,  27 

police,  xviii,  252 

Police  College,  252 

Police  Preparatory  School,  252 

Popular  Army.  See  People's  Army 

Popular  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  Pales- 
tine (PFLP),  208;  Special  Operations 
Branch,  208 

Popular  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  the 
Occupied  Arabian  Gulf,  60 

population,  xiv,  78-80;  growth  in  cities 
of,  105-9;  redistribution  of,  97-99 

ports,  xvi,  166 

Portsmouth  Treaty  (1948),  47 
presidency,  178 

Presidential  Guard  Force,  xviii,  217,  252 

price  controls,  xxix,  254 

prisoners  of  war,  246 

private  sector:  imports  of,  170;  industries 

of,  145-46,  148-49 
privatization,  xxv,  xxx,  42,  129-30,  148; 

of  agriculture,  159;  of  airline,  167 
Progressive  National  Front  (PNF)  {see  also 

Baath  (Arab  Socialist  Resurrection 

Party)),  xvii,  176,  194-97,  249;  High 

Council  of,  195 
Progressive  Nationalists:  Kurdish,  197 
protection,  148 

Provisional  Constitution  (1970),  xvii, 
xxiv,  58,  59,  175,  181,  199;  principles 
expressed  in,  177-78 

public  health  system,  117-18 

Public  Service  Council,  182 


PUK.  See  Patriotic  Union  of  Kurdistan 

(PUK) 
purges,  58,  216,  242,  249 

Qabus  (sultan),  62 

Qasim,  Abd  al  Karim,  49,  50-53,  103, 

188-89,  228 
Qasim  government,  107,  146,  249 
Qasr-e  Shirin,  65,  234 
Qatar,  xxv,  206,  207 
Qom,  92,  94 
Quraysh  tribe,  15 
Qusaybah,  164 

radio:  broadcasting,  199;  transmission, 
167 

Radio  Iraq,  199 
Rafidayn  Bank,  131-32 
railroads,  xvi,  163-66 
rainfall,  77-78,  153,  154 
Ramadan,  88,  94 
Ramadan,  Taha  Yasin,  225 
Ras  al  Khaymah,  60 
Rashid,  219 
Rashid  Airbase,  222 
Rashid  Ali,  5,  45-46,  47,  48 
Rawanduz,  61 

Rawi,  Abd  al  Ghani  ar,  243 
Razzaq,  Arif  Abd  ar,  55 
RCC.  See  Revolutionary  Command  Coun- 
cil (RCC) 
Real  Estate  Bank,  131,  132 
reconstruction,  xxix 
Red  Line  Agreement,  135 
Red  Sea,  143 
refineries,  145 
refugees,  61 

Regional  Command:  Baath  Party,  xvii, 

97,  193 
Regional  Congress,  193 
religion,  xiv,  7 

religious  court  system,  184-85 
Reserve  College,  221 
reserve  units,  military,  221 
reservoirs,  154 

Resolution  598,  UN  Security  Council, 
xxvii 

Resolution  1646,  of  the  RCC,  130 
revenues:  from  export  of  electric  power, 
168;  from  oil  export,  48,  50,  109, 
123-25,  127,  137,  141-43,  146,  148, 
168-69,  203,  245 


295 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Revolutionary  Command  Council  (RCC), 
xvii,  xxiii-xxiv,  xxvi,  58,  59,  60,  96-97, 
128-30;  link  to  National  Assembly  of, 
182;  organization  and  function  of,  175, 
178,  179,  181;  repression  by,  217;  Reso- 
lution 1646,  130;  Resolution  1370,  224; 
role  in  foreign  policy  of,  200 

Revolutionary  Court,  185 

revolutionary  courts,  223,  254,  255 

Revolution  of  July  14(1958),  49,  50,  51, 
56,  75 

Reza  (Imam),  92 

rice,  101,  159-60 

Rikabi,  Fuad,  51,  53 

roads,  xvi,  163 

Romans,  14 

rural  society  {see  also  agrarian  reform; 

tribal  society;  villages),  xxiv,  98,  99 
Rustam,  15,  16 


Saadi,  Ali  Salih  as,  53-54 
Saadun,  Abd  al  Muhsin  as,  37,  39 
Saadun  family,  26 
Sadat,  Anwar,  63 
Saddam  City,  107 
Saddam  Dam,  154 

Saddam  Husayn,  xxiv-xxv,  51,  61,  65, 
87,  96,  178,  184,  192,  204,  210,  232, 
238,  243;  administration  of,  167,  171, 
175,  182,  200,  202;  assassination  at- 
tempt on,  244;  consolidation  of  power 
by,  xxvi,  62-63;  economic  reform  of, 
127-29;  emergence  of,  5,  58-59, 
188-89;  as  leader  of  Baath  Party,  xvii, 
105,  175-76,  194,  209,  217;  role  in 
government  and  party  of,  219 

Saddam  Hussein,  See  Saddam  Husayn 

Sadr,  Musa  as  (imam),  251 

Safavid  Empire,  25-26 

Safavids,  26 

Safwan,  163 

Said,  Nuri  as,  32,  39-40,  44-49,  52 
SAIRI.  See  Supreme  Assembly  for  the 

Islamic  Revolution  in  Iraq  (SAIRI) 
Salah  ad  Din  I  refinery,  145 
Samanids,  21 
Samarkand,  24,  25 
Samarra,  71,  154,  165 
Samarrai,  Salih  Mahdi  as,  243 
Sanandaj,  234 

San  Remo  Conference  (1920),  32,  38, 
133-34,  136,  141 


Sardis,  12 
Sargon  I  (king),  9 
Sassanid  Empire,  15,  16,  86 
Sassanids,  14,  15 

Saudi  Arabia,  xvi,  xxiv,  xxv,  xxix,  40,  46, 
60,  62,  71,  143,  245;  economic  as- 
sistance from,  207;  Iraqi  relations  with, 
202,  206-7 

schools,  theological,  90-91,  92,  95 

school  system,  114,  116 

Sea  Isle  City,  241 

secret  societies,  33-34 

sectarian  tension,  189 

Security  Forces,  xviii 

Security  Troops,  252 

Seleucia,  14 

Selim  the  Grim,  26 

Seljuks,  23-24 

Semitic  languages,  81 

Sennacherib  (king),  11 

Septimius  Severus,  14 

services,  xv 

settlements,  75-77 

Shafii  school  of  jurisprudence,  184 

Shah  Abbas,  26 

shah  of  Iran,  xxiv,  xxv,  52,  56,  59-61, 

63,  84 
Shakir,  Saadun,  253 
Shammar,  32 

Shammar  tribal  confederation,  26 
Shanshal,  Abd  al  Jabar,  219-20 
sharia  courts,  185 
Sharjah,  60 

Shatt  al  Arab,  xxiv,  xxvii-xxviii,  31,  44, 
52,  56,  60,  61,  63,  70,  75,  106,  160, 
166,  200,  207,  218,  232,  233,  234,  238 

Shatt  al  Gharraf,  75 

Shatt  al  Hillah,  74 

shaykhs,  4,  5,  26-27,  36,  39,  42,  45,  50, 

94,  100-101 
Shia  Arabs,  xiv,  189 
Shia  clergy,  198 

Shia  Islam,  xxiv,  20,  23,  25,  26,  63,  81, 
91-95 

Shia  revival  movements,  247 

Shias,  xiv,  xxx,  18,  19,  23,  30,  34,  35, 

36,  39,  40,  45,  50,  63-64,  90,  95-97, 

107 

Shiat  Ali,  3,  89-90 

Shihab,  Hammad,  58,  243 

Shirazi  (imam),  34 

Shishakli,  Adib,  48-49 

shoe  manufacturing  industry,  152 


296 


Index 


Shuwairah,  152 
Sidqi,  Bakr,  42,  44-45 
Siffin,  Plain  of,  17 
Simel  (Sumayyil),  42 
Sinai  Peninsula,  49 
Sinjar,  83 

Sinjar  Mountains,  85 
Sirri  Island,  238 
Slaibi,  Said,  54 

social  structure  {see  also  tribal  society), 
49-50,  52-53,  109-10;  in  urban  centers, 
108 

social  welfare,  118,  127 

SOMO.  See  State  Organization  for  Mar- 
keting Oil  (SOMO) 

SONO.  See  State  Organization  for  North- 
ern Oil  (SONO) 

SOOP.  See  State  Organization  of  Oil 
Projects  (SOOP) 

Sorchi  tribe,  83 

Southern  Petroleum  Organization  (SPO), 
142 

South  Yemen.  See  People's  Democratic 
Republic  of  Yemen 

Soviet  Union,  46,  126-27,  215;  assistance 
with  railroad  construction  by,  163;  eco- 
nomic cooperation  with  Iraq  of,  145; 
gas  pipeline  construction  by,  144;  Iraqi 
relations  with,  xvii-xviii,  202,  203-4; 
military  aid  from,  229;  oil  development 
assistance  by,  141;  relations  with  Iraq 
of,  xxiv,  51 ;  role  in  Iran-Iraq  War,  241 ; 
sale  of  arms  and  aircraft  by,  204,  219, 
228-29;  treaty  with,  61 

Spain,  xvi,  21,  170 

SPO.  See  Southern  Petroleum  Organiza- 
tion (SPO) 
Standard  Oil  of  New  Jersey,  135 
State  Enterprise  for  Iraqi  Airlines,  130, 
166 

state  farms.  See  collectives 

State  Organization  for  Marketing  Oil 

(SOMO),  142 
State  Organization  for  Northern  Oil 

(SONO),  142 
State   Organization   of  Oil  Projects 

(SOOP),  142,  144,  145 
state-owned  enterprises,  127-30,  137, 

141,  144,  146,  148,  152,  192 
state  religion,  86 
state  security  organizations,  xviii 
Staudenmaeir,  William  O.,  235 
steel  industry,  55 


Strait  of  Hormuz,  207,  241 
Sublime  Porte,  30 
Suez  Canal,  29,  140 
Suffarids,  21 
sugar  industry,  160 
Sulayman,  Hikmat,  41,  44 
Suleyman  II,  27 
Suleyman  the  Magnificent,  26 
sulfuric  acid  industry,  149 
sulfur  industry,  149 
Sultan,  Abd  Allah,  188 
Sumer,  3,  6-7,  9,  10 
Sumerians,  xxiii,  6-7,  9 
sunna,  87 

Sunni  Arabs,  xiv,  81,  189 
Sunni  Islam,  xxiv,  20-21,  23,  26,  81,  87, 
232 

Sunnis,  xiv,  xxx,  19-20,  23,  24,  30,  34, 
35,  36,  39,  44,  50,  58,  63,  85-86, 
90-91,  95-97;  as  ruling  class,  95-96 

Sunni-Shia  relations,  17,  26,  40,  95-97 

Supreme  Assembly  for  the  Islamic  Revo- 
lution in  Iraq  (SAIRI),  198-99,  251 

Susa,  12 

Susangerd,  234 

Suwaidi,  Tawfiq,  47 

Sykes-Picot  Agreement  (1916),  38,  216 

Syria,  xvi,  xviii,  11,  20,  30,  32,  35,  40, 
46,  48,  54,  56-57,  63,  71,  74,  83,  136, 
140,  142,  153,  155,  163,  228;  military 
aid  from,  61;  rival  Baath  government 
in,  xxv,  209 

Syrian  Catholic  church,  86 

Syrian  Desert,  71 


Tabriz,  25,  233 
Tahirids,  21 

Talabani,  Jalal,  62,  84,  197,  248 

Talfah,  Adnan  Khayr  Allah,  xxvi,  59 

Talfah,  Khayr  Allah,  59 

Talfah  family,  194 

Talib,  Ali  ibn  Abu,  3,  17-20,  89-90 

Talib,  Naji,  56-57 

Tamerlane  (Timur  the  Lame),  25 

tanker  war,  240-41 

tanks,  218 

tanneries,  55 

TAPU  land  law  (1858),  27,  30 
tariffs,  148 

technical  assistance,  203 
technocrats,  xxiv 

Techno-Export  (Soviet  Union),  145 


297 


Iraq:  A  Country  Study 


Tehran,  56,  234,  251 
telecommunications  system,  167 
telephones,  167 

television:  broadcasting,  199;  transmis- 
sion, 167 

temperatures,  78 

Temujin,  24 

textile  industry,  xv,  152 

thalweg,  60,  61,  70,  232 

Thompson-CSF,  153 

Tiglath-Pileser  III  (king),  1 1 

Tigris  (Dijlis)  River,  xiv,  3,  6,  10,  11,  14, 
21,  26,  27,  30,  35,  71,  74,  75,  101,  118, 
135,  153,  155,  166 

Tigris-Euphrates  confluence,  xxiii,  74, 
75,  237 

Tigris-Euphrates  river  valley,  14 

Tigris  Valley,  11,  154 

Tikrit,  xxiv,  58,  59,  116,  194,  222,  244 

Tikritis,  58,  59 

tobacco  industry,  55,  160 

topography,  xiv 

Townshend,  Charles,  31 

trade  barriers,  148 

trade  deficit,  168 

trade  policy,  170 

trade  unions,  50,  51,  128 

trading  companies,  170 

Trajan,  14 

Transjordan,  32,  45,  46 

Transoxiana,  23 

transportation,  162-67 

transport  equipment  industry,  152 

Treaty  of  Friendship  and  Cooperation 

with  Soviet  Union  (1972),  203,  228 
Treaty  of  Mohammara  (1922),  70 
Treaty  of  Sevres  (1920),  37-38 
treaty  setting  Kuwait-Iraq  border  (1913), 

70 

treaty  with  Iran  (1937),  70 
tribal  affiliation,  83 
tribal  revolts,  42 

tribal  society  {see  also  shaykhs),  99-103 
Tripoli,  48,  136 

Tsevetmetpromexport  (TSMPE),  144 

Tudeh  Party,  250 

Tughril,  24 

Tughril  Beg,  23 

Tulayah,  163 

Tunisia,  21 

Turkestan,  14,  24 

Turkey,  4,  30,  31,  33,  38,  41,  44,  71,  74, 
83,  126,  142,  153,  155-56,  163,  168; 


relations  with,  209-10;  trade  with  Iraq 

of,  xvi,  170 
Turkic  language,  xiv 
Turkish  language,  30 
Turkish  Petroleum  Company  (TPC)  {see 

also  Iraq  Petroleum  Company  (IPC)), 

38,  133-35 
Turkomans,  xiv,  51,  69,  81,  85-86 
Turks,  23,  35 
Tuwaitha,  204 

Twelver  or  Ithna-Ashari  sect,  95 
Twentieth  Brigade,  54 


Ubayd  Allah,  19 

Umar  (caliph),  16,  17,  18,  86,  89 
Umar  Khayyam,  24 
Umayyad  Dynasty,  19,  40,  90,  92 
Umayyads,  20,  21 

Umm  Qasr,  xvi,  xxviii,  60,  166,  218 

Unified  Political  Command,  54 

uniforms  and  insignia,  224 

United  Arab  Emirates  (UAE),  xxv,  60, 
206,  207,  241 

United  Arab  Republic  (UAR),  54 

United  National  Front,  188 

United  Nations  (UN),  xxvii,  46,  210;  par- 
tition of  Palestine  by,  47;  report  on 
chemical  weapon  use,  238 

United  Nations  (UN)  Food  and  Agricul- 
ture Organization  (FAO),  104 

United  Nations  (UN)  Security  Council: 
cease-fire  resolution  for  Iran-Iraq  War, 
200,  204;  Resolution  598,  xxvii 

United  States:  aid  to  Kurdish  Democratic 
Party  by,  196;  Arms  Control  and  Dis- 
armament Agency,  229;  Central  Intel- 
ligence Agency,  52;  Department  of 
Defense,  229;  Department  of  State, 
xxviii;  Iraqi  relations  with,  xviii,  202, 
205-6;  military  assistance  from,  61; 
Navy  SEAL  commandos,  241;  owner- 
ship in  TPC  of,  134;  role  in  Iran-Iraq 
War,  241;  trade  with  Iraq  of,  170 

University  of  Al  Mustansiriyah,  116 

University  of  Baghdad,  116 

University  of  Basra,  116 

University  of  Mosul,  116 

University  of  Salah  ad  Din,  116 

University  of  Technology,  116 

university  system,  116 

upland  regions,  71 

Ur,  3,  9-10 


298 


Index 


urban  growth,  105-9 
urbanization,  98 
urban  society,  xxiv,  98 
Urmia,  33,  234 
Uruk,  7,  9 

USS  Stark,  xxviii,  241 

Usuli  school,  95 

Uthman  (caliph),  17,  18,  89-90 

Uzaym,  75 

vegetable  production,  160 
veterans,  246 
villages,  102-3 

volunteer  military  service,  221 

wadis,  71,  74 

Walid,  Khalid  ibn  al,  15 

Warbah,  60 

war  casualties,  245-46 

War  College.  See  Al  Bakr  University  for 
Higher  Military  Studies 

water  control  (see  also  barrages;  dam  con- 
struction; floods;  irrigation),  distribu- 
tion system  for,  101;  diversion  by  other 
countries,  155-56 

water  resources,  153-56 

water  supply,  153 

Wathbah  uprising  (1948),  47,  49 

West  Al  Qurnah  oil  field,  145 


Western  influence,  97 
wheat,  159 
widows,  246 

Wilson,  Arnold  Talbot,  32,  33,  34 
winds,  78 

women,  xxx,  113;  in  armed  forces,  220, 
221 

World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  210 

Yahya,  Tahir,  57 

Yanbu,  xvi,  xxix,  143 

Yathrib  (Medina),  87 

Yazid  I,  19 

Yazidis,  xiv,  85 

Yemen,  14,  46 

Young  Arab  Society,  29 

Young  Turks,  29,  30-31 

Young  Turks'  Revolution  of  1908,  29 

Yugoslavia,  170 

Yusuf,  Yusuf  Salman,  248 


Zagros  Mountains,  78,  83 

Zakhu,  41,  60 

Zangid  Dynasty,  24 

Zanj,  23 

Zaydis,  95 

Zibari  tribe,  83 

ziggurats,  7 

Ziyad  ibn  Abihi,  20 


299 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


v_/  v_/  V7     \J  U 

A  fcrhani  ctan 

L\.  IcillCllllOLClll 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-98 

Albania 

550-87 

Greece 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-59 

Angola 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-82 

Guyana 

5^0-1 69 

An  qItji  1 1 7\ 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-176 

Austria 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-21 

India 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-68 

Iran 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-61 

Burma 

550-25 

Israel 

550-37 

Burundi/Rwanda 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic/Haiti 

550-76 

Mongolia 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-167 

Finland 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-46 

Panama 

301 


550- 

-156 

Paraguay 

£  K  A 

rersian  Lruli  > 

550- 

-42 

Peru 

550- 

-72 

Philippines 

^  ^a 
DDU- 

1  AO 

r  olana 

550- 

-181 

Portugal 

jjU- 

1  AA 

Romania 

DOU- 

-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

t^A 

7A 

-  /U 

Senegal 

550- 

1  OA 

-180 

c :  t  

oierra  Leone 

550- 

-184 

Singapore 

550- 

-86 

Somalia 

550- 

AO 

-93 

South  Africa 

c^A 
DDU- 

-yo 

Soviet  Union 

550- 

1  *7A 

-1/9 

Spain 

550- 

-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550- 

-27 

Sudan 

550- 

-47 

Syria 

550- 

-62 

Tanzania 

550- 

-53 

Thailand 

550-89  Tunisia 

550-80  Turkey 

550-74  Uganda 

550-97  Uruguay 

550-71  Venezuela 

550-32  Vietnam 

550-183  Yemens,  The 

550-99  Yugoslavia 

550-67  Zaire 

550-75  Zambia 

550-171  Zimbabwe 


302 


PIN:  004200-000 


