area  handbook  series 

Israel 

a  country  study 


? 


Israel 

a  country  study 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Helen  Chapin  Metz 
Research  Completed 
December  1988 


On  the  cover:  Shield  of  David — the  menorah  surrounded  by 
olive  branches,  the  official  symbol  of  Israel 


Third  Edition;  First  Printing,  1990. 

Copyright  ®1990  United  States  Government  as  represented  by 
the  Secretary  of  the  Army.  All  rights  reserved. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Israel:  A  Country  Study. 

Area  handbook  series,  DA  Pam  550-25 
Research  completed  December  1988. 
Bibliography:  pp.  361-386. 
Includes  index. 

1.  Israel  I.  Metz,  Helen  Chapin,  1928-      .  II.  Federal  Research 
Division,  Library  of  Congress.  III.  Area  Handbook  for  Israel.  IV. 
Series:  DA  Pam  550-25. 

DS126.5.I772       1990       90-6119  CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-25 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  now  being 
prepared  by  the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Con- 
gress under  the  Country  Studies — Area  Handbook  Program.  The 
last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other  published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Acting  Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


iii 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  of  the  fol- 
lowing individuals  who  wrote  the  1978  edition  of  Israel:  A  Country 
Study,  which  was  edited  by  Richard  F.  Nyrop:  Richard  F.  Nyrop, 
Laraine  N.  Carter,  Darrell  R.  Eglin,  Rinn  Sup  Shinn,  and  James 
D.  Rudolph.  Their  work  provided  the  organization  and  structure 
of  the  present  volume,  as  well  as  portions  of  the  text. 

The  authors  are  grateful  to  individuals  in  various  government 
agencies  and  private  institutions  who  gave  their  time,  research 
materials,  and  expertise  to  the  production  of  this  book.  The  authors 
also  wish  to  thank  members  of  the  Federal  Research  Division  staff 
who  contributed  directly  to  the  preparation  of  the  manuscript.  These 
people  include  Thomas  Collelo,  the  substantive  reviewer  of  all  the 
textual  material  and  maps;  Richard  F.  Nyrop,  who  reviewed  all 
drafts  and  served  as  liaison  with  the  sponsoring  agency;  and 
Martha  E.  Hopkins,  who  managed  book  editing  and  production. 
Noelle  B.  Beatty,  Sharon  Costello,  Deanna  D'Errico,  and  Evan 
Raynes  edited  the  chapters.  Also  involved  in  preparing  the  text 
were  editorial  assistants  Barbara  Edgerton  and  Izella  Watson. 
Catherine  Schwartzstein  performed  final  prepublication  review. 
Shirley  Kessel  compiled  the  index.  Malinda  B.  Neale  of  the  Library 
of  Congress  Composing  Unit  set  the  type,  under  the  direction  of 
Peggy  Pixley. 

Invaluable  graphics  support  was  provided  by  David  P.  Cabitto, 
assisted  by  Sandra  K.  Ferrell.  Carolina  E.  Forrester  reviewed  the 
map  drafts  and  prepared  the  final  maps.  Special  thanks  are  owed 
to  Kimberly  A.  Lord,  who  designed  the  cover  artwork  and  the  illus- 
trations on  the  title  page  of  each  chapter. 

The  authors  would  like  to  thank  Arvies  J.  Staton,  who  supplied 
information  on  ranks  and  insignia.  Joshua  Sinai  provided  invalu- 
able assistance  in  the  transliteration  and  translation  of  Hebrew 
terms.  Finally,  the  authors  acknowledge  the  generosity  of  the  many 
individuals  and  public  agencies  who  allowed  their  photographs  to 
be  used  in  this  study. 


v 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword     iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface      xiii 

Country  Profile      XV 

Introduction     xxiii 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting    1 

Mark  A.  Lewis 

ANCIENT  ISRAEL   6 

HELLENISM  AND  THE  ROMAN  CONQUEST    11 

PALESTINE  BETWEEN  THE  ROMANS  AND 

MODERN  TIMES    15 

ORIGINS  OF  ZIONISM    17 

Political  Zionism    24 

Cultural  Zionism    26 

Labor  Zionism   28 

Revisionist  Zionism    29 

EVENTS  IN  PALESTINE,  1908-48    30 

Arab  Nationalism    30 

World  War  I:  Diplomacy  and  Intrigue    32 

The  Arab  Community  During  the  Mandate    38 

The  Jewish  Community  under  the  Mandate    40 

The  Palestinian  Revolt,  1936-39    44 

World  War  II  and  Zionism    47 

The  Holocaust   48 

Prelude  to  Statehood    49 

PROBLEMS  OF  THE  NEW  STATE,  1948-67    52 

Etatism    52 

Ingathering  of  the  Exiles    53 

Israeli  Arabs,  Arab  Land,  and  Arab  Refugees    54 

The  Emergence  of  the  IDF    57 

1967  AND  AFTERWARD    59 

The  War  of  Attrition   62 

The  October  1973  War    64 

The  Decline  of  the  Labor  Party    68 

Oriental  Jews   69 


vii 


THE  BEGIN  ERA    70 

The  Peace  Process   70 

The  Occupied  Territories    73 

Israeli  Action  in  Lebanon,  1978-82    76 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment  .  8i 

Kevin  Avruch 

GEOGRAPHY    85 

Topography   85 

Climate    87 

POPULATION    88 

SOCIAL  STRUCTURE    93 

Varieties  of  Israeli  Judaism    95 

The  Role  of  Judaism   97 

Jewish  Ethnic  Groups    112 

Minority  Groups    120 

Distinctive  Social  Institutions    127 

EDUCATION    130 

Higher  Education    133 

Youth  Movements  and  Organizations    134 

HEALTH    134 

WELFARE    136 

Chapter  3.  Economy    139 

Joseph  Pelzman 

OVERVIEW  OF  THE  1948-72  PERIOD    141 

ECONOMIC  GROWTH  AND  STRUCTURAL  CHANGE  .  .  143 

Slowdown  of  Economic  Growth   144 

Changes  in  Investment  Patterns    146 

Changes  in  Industrial  Structure    147 

Changes  in  Labor  Force    148 

THE  PUBLIC  SECTOR    150 

Government  Budget    150 

Provision  of  Civilian  Services    151 

Provision  of  Defense  Services    152 

Taxation    153 

INDUSTRY    154 

Electronics    155 

Biotechnology    155 

Diamonds    156 

Chemicals,  Rubber,  and  Plastics   156 

Clothing  and  Textiles    157 

Construction    158 

Tourism   158 


vin 


Energy   159 

AGRICULTURE   161 

FINANCIAL  SERVICES    162 

TRANSPORTATION  AND  COMMUNICATIONS    166 

FOREIGN  TRADE    169 

BALANCE  OF  PAYMENTS    173 

THE  ECONOMIC  STABILIZATION  PROGRAM  OF 

JULY  1985    173 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics   177 

Joshua  Sinai 

THE  CONSTITUTIONAL  FRAMEWORK   181 

GOVERNMENT    184 

The  President    184 

The  Cabinet    185 

The  Civil  Service   189 

The  Knesset    190 

The  State  Comptroller   192 

The  Judicial  System    193 

Local  Government   198 

Civilian  Administration  in  the  West  Bank  and  the 

Gaza  Strip    199 

NATIONAL  INSTITUTIONS   200 

World  Zionist  Organization  and  the  Jewish  Agency   .  .  200 

Histadrut   202 

POLITICAL  FRAMEWORK:  ELITE,  VALUES,  AND 

ORIENTATIONS    203 

MULTIPARTY  SYSTEM    210 

Alignment  Parties    213 

The  Likud  Bloc    217 

Religious  Parties    220 

Right-Wing  Ultranationalist  Parties    224 

Extraparliamentary  Religio-Nationalist  Movements    .  .  225 

Arab  Parties    226 

Interest  Groups    227 

PROSPECTS  FOR  ELECTORAL  REFORM   228 

CIVIL-MILITARY  RELATIONS    229 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS    230 

Relations  with  Middle  Eastern  States    231 

Relations  with  the  United  States    234 

Relations  with  the  Soviet  Union    239 

Relations  with  Eastern  Europe    240 

Relations  with  Western  Europe   241 

Relations  with  African  States    242 


ix 


Relations  with  Asian  States    244 

Relations  with  Latin  America    244 

COMMUNICATIONS  MEDIA   244 

Chapter  5.  National  Security    249 

Jean  R.  Tartter  and  Robert  Scott  Mason 

SECURITY:  A  PERSISTENT  NATIONAL  CONCERN   252 

Historical  Background    252 

War  of  Independence    255 

1956  War    256 

June  1967  War    259 

October  1973  War   260 

1982  Invasion  of  Lebanon    262 

The  Siege  of  Beirut  and  Its  Aftermath    264 

ISRAELI  CONCEPTS  OF  NATIONAL  SECURITY   266 

Dormant  War    267 

Extensive  Threat    267 

Strategic  Depth    268 

Potential  Causes  of  War    269 

Nuclear  and  Conventional  Deterrents    270 

Autonomy    271 

INTERNATIONAL  AND  DOMESTIC  SECURITY 

CONCERNS    272 

The  Arab  Military  Threat   272 

Palestinian  Terrorist  Groups    275 

Jewish  Terrorist  Organizations    279 

THE  ISRAEL  DEFENSE  FORCES   280 

Command  Structure    280 

Ground  Forces   281 

Navy     283 

Air  Force   285 

Nahal    287 

Gadna    287 

Conscription    288 

Women  in  the  IDF    289 

Reserve  Duty    290 

Training    290 

Minorities  in  the  IDF    294 

Pay  and  Benefits    294 

Rank,  Insignia,  and  Uniforms    296 

Awards  and  Decorations    297 

Discipline  and  Military  Justice    297 

THE  IDF  IN  THE  OCCUPIED  TERRITORIES   300 

Military  Government   301 


x 


Palestinian  Uprising,  December  1987-    303 

ARMED  FORCES  AND  SOCIETY    306 

Economic  Impact   306 

The  IDF  as  a  Socializing  Factor    308 

The  Military  in  Political  Life    310 

DEFENSE  PRODUCTION  AND  SALES    314 

Defense  Industries    315 

Nuclear  Weapons  Potential    317 

Foreign  Military  Sales  and  Assistance   318 

MILITARY  COOPERATION  WITH  THE  UNITED 

STATES    320 

THE  ISRAEL  POLICE    323 

Subordinate  Forces    324 

Police  Reform    326 

INTELLIGENCE  SERVICES    327 

Mossad    327 

Aman    328 

Shin  Bet    329 

Lekem    330 

CRIMINAL  JUSTICE    331 

Judicial  System    331 

Criminal  Justice  in  the  Occupied  Territories   333 

Penal  System   334 

Appendix  A.  Tables   339 

Appendix  B.  Political  Parties  and 

Organizations    355 

Bibliography    36i 

Glossary   387 

Index   393 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Israel,  1988    xxii 

2  Land  of  Israel  During  the  Reigns  of  David  and  Solomon    .  .  12 

3  Palestine  During  the  Mandate  and  Two  of  the  Partition 

Proposals   46 

4  Topography  and  Drainage    86 

5  Jewish  Population  Distribution  by  Age,  Sex,  and  Origin, 

1986    90 

6  Non-Jewish  Population  Distribution  by  Age,  Sex,  and 

Religion,  1986    92 

7  Analysis  of  Jewish  Population  Distribution  by  Origin, 

1948,  1972,  and  1986    94 


8  Economic  Activity,  1988    160 

9  Transportation  System,  1988    168 

10  Government  System,  1988    186 

11  Evolution  of  Political  Parties,  1948-88  (Simplified)    215 

12  Israel's  1982  Invasion  of  Lebanon    266 

13  Comparison  of  Military  Forces  of  Israel  and  Neighboring 

Countries,  1987    274 

14  Organization  of  National  Defense,  1988    282 

15  Ranks  and  Insignia  of  the  Israeli  Defense  Forces,  1988   ....  298 

16  Israeli  Settlements  in  the  Golan  Heights,  1985    302 

17  Israeli  Settlements  in  the  West  Bank,  October  1986    304 

18  Israeli  Settlements  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  January  1988    306 


xii 


Preface 


Like  its  predecessor,  this  study  is  an  attempt  to  treat  in  a  con- 
cise and  objective  manner  the  dominant  social,  political,  economic, 
and  military  aspects  of  contemporary  Israeli  society.  Sources  of  in- 
formation included  scholarly  journals  and  monographs,  official 
reports  of  governments  and  international  organizations,  foreign  and 
domestic  newspapers,  and  numerous  periodicals.  Chapter  bibliog- 
raphies appear  at  the  end  of  the  book;  brief  comments  on  some 
of  the  more  valuable  sources  suggested  as  possible  further  reading 
appear  at  the  end  of  each  chapter.  Measurements  are  given  in  the 
metric  system;  a  conversion  table  is  provided  to  assist  those  read- 
ers who  are  unfamiliar  with  metric  measurements  (see  table  1 ,  Ap- 
pendix A). 

An  effort  has  been  made  to  limit  the  use  of  foreign — mostly 
Hebrew  and  Arabic — words  and  phrases,  but  a  fairly  large  num- 
ber were  deemed  necessary  to  an  understanding  of  the  society. 
These  terms  have  been  defined  the  first  time  they  appear  in  a  chap- 
ter or  defined  in  a  Glossary  entry.  To  help  readers  identify  the 
numerous  political  groups,  Appendix  B,  Political  Parties  and 
Organizations,  is  provided. 

The  transliteration  of  Hebrew  words  and  phrases  follows  a  modi- 
fied version  of  the  system  adopted  by  the  United  States  Board  on 
Geographic  Names  and  the  Permanent  Committee  on  Geographic 
Names  for  British  Official  Use,  known  as  the  BGN/PCGN  sys- 
tem. The  names  of  people  and  places  of  ancient  Israel  are  gen- 
erally presented  as  they  appear  in  the  Revised  Standard  Version 
of  the  Bible. 

A  modified  version  of  the  BGN/PCGN  system  for  transliterat- 
ing Arabic  was  employed.  The  modification  is  a  significant  one, 
however,  entailing  as  it  does  the  omission  of  diacritical  marks  and 
most  hyphens. 


xiii 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  State  of  Israel 

Short  Form:  Israel 

Term  for  Citizens:  Israeli(s) 

Capital:  Government  located  in  Jerusalem,  Israel's  officially  desig- 
nated capital.  In  1988  United  States  and  most  other  countries  con- 
tinued to  recognize  Tel  Aviv  as  capital  and  to  maintain  their 
chanceries  there. 


xv 


Geography 

Size:  About  20,700  square  kilometers.  Occupied  territories  com- 
prise additional  7,477  square  kilometers:  West  Bank,  5,879;  Gaza 
Strip,  378;  East  Jerusalem,  annexed  in  1967,  annexation  reaffirmed 
in  July  1980,  70;  and  Golan  Heights,  annexed  in  December  1981, 
1,150. 

Topography:  Four  general  areas:  coastal  plain — fertile,  humid, 
and  thickly  populated — stretches  along  Mediterranean  Sea;  cen- 
tral highlands  including  Hills  of  Galilee  in  north  with  country's 
highest  elevation  at  Mt.  Meron  (1,208  meters),  and  arid  Judean 
Hills  in  south;  Jordan  Rift  Valley  with  lowest  point  (399  meters 
below  sea  level)  at  Dead  Sea;  and  Negev  Desert,  which  accounts 
for  about  half  Israel's  area. 

Society 

Population:  Officially  estimated  in  October  1987  at  4,389,600, 
of  whom  about  82  percent  Jews.  Population  increasing  at  annual 
rate  of  about  1.8  percent,  although  Arab  segment  of  population 
increasing  at  annual  rate  of  about  2.8  percent  compared  to  Jewish 
population  growth  rate  of  1.3  percent. 

Education:  High  level  of  education,  literacy  rate  of  Jewish  popu- 
lation about  90  percent.  State  education  either  secular  or  religious, 
with  independent  (but  substantially  state-supported)  religious 
schools  in  addition;  ratio  of  secular  to  religious  enrollments  approxi- 
mately 70  to  30.  Schools  are  free  and  compulsory  for  students 
through  age  fifteen,  and  are  supplemented  by  scouting,  youth  move- 
ments, and  vocational  training.  Seven  universities. 

Health:  High  level  of  health  and  medical  care,  with  one  of  highest 
physician-patient  ratios  in  world.  Average  life  expectancy  of  73.9 
for  Jewish  males  and  77.3  for  females;  72.0  for  non-Jewish  males 
and  75.8  for  females.  Steadily  declining  infant  mortality  rates. 
Widespread  system  of  public  health  and  broad  insurance  cover- 
age contribute  to  eradication  and  prevention  of  disease.  Many 
voluntary  and  charitable  organizations,  some  funded  substantially 
from  abroad,  involved  in  health  care. 

Languages:  Hebrew  major  official  language  and  most  widely  used 
in  daily  life.  Arabic,  chief  language  of  Arab  minority,  also  official 
language  and  may  be  used  in  Knesset  (parliament)  and  courts;  also 
spoken  by  older  Sephardim  (Oriental  Jews — see  Glossary).  English 
widely  spoken  and  taught  in  state  schools.  Yiddish  spoken  by  older 


xvi 


Ashkenazim  (see  Glossary)  and  by  ultra-Orthodox.  Numerous  other 
languages  and  dialects  spoken  by  smaller  segments  of  population, 
reflecting  diversity  of  cultural  origins. 

Religion:  Judaism  dominant  faith.  Substantial  Sunni  (see  Glos- 
sary) Muslim  (about  77  percent  of  non-Jewish  population)  and 
smaller  Christian  and  Druze  (see  Glossary)  communities  also 
present. 

Economy 

Gross  National  Product  (GNP):  Approximately  US$33  billion 
(US$7,576  per  capita)  in  1987.  Between  1973  and  1983  real 
GNP  growth  rate  was  approximately  2.0  percent  per  year.  Real 
GNP  increased  2.4  percent  in  1984,  increased  3.7  percent  in 
1985,  increased  3.3  percent  in  1986,  and  increased  5.2  percent  in 
1987. 

Agriculture:  Efficient  and  modern.  Irrigation  extensive,  but  all 
available  water  resources  currently  being  used.  Main  products  in- 
cluded cereals,  fruits,  vegetables,  poultry,  and  dairy  products. 
Specialization  in  high-value  produce,  partly  for  export.  Imports 
of  grains  and  meat.  Agriculture's  share  of  GNP  5  percent  in  1986. 

Industry:  Contributed  23  percent  of  GNP  and  employed  23  per- 
cent of  labor  force  in  1986.  Major  industries  included  electronics, 
biotechnology,  diamond  cutting  and  polishing,  energy,  chemicals, 
rubber,  plastics,  clothing  and  textiles,  and  defense. 

Imports:  US$9.2  billion  in  1986,  excluding  US$1.1  billion  of  direct 
defense  imports.  Materials  for  processsing  accounted  for  more  than 
75  percent  of  nondefense  imports.  Bulk  of  imports  from  industri- 
alized countries. 

Exports:  US$6.9  billion  in  1986.  Metals,  machinery,  and  electron- 
ics represented  main  exports  (US$2.2  billion  in  1986).  Diamonds 
were  next  largest  export  (US$1 .9  billion).  Main  markets  in  indus- 
trial countries. 

Balance  of  Payments:  During  1986  Israel  had  current  account 
surplus  of  US$1 .4  billion.  Situation  resulted  from  Economic  Stabili- 
zation Program  adopted  in  July  1985. 

Currency  and  Exchange  Rates:  New  Israeli  shekel  introduced  Sep- 
tember 1985,  worth  1,000  of  former  shekels;  100  agorot  (sing., 
agora — see  Glossary)  =  1  new  Israeli  shekel.  Average  exchange 
rate  1988  1.6  NIS  per  US$. 


xvn 


Transportation  and  Communications 


Roads:  13,410  kilometers  of  roads  in  1985,  providing  relatively 
dense  network. 

Railroads:  528  kilometers  of  state-owned  railroads  in  1988  link- 
ing major  centers  of  Jerusalem,  Tel  Aviv,  Haifa,  Beersheba,  and 
Ashdod. 

Ports:  Haifa  most  important,  handling  about  55  percent  of  for- 
eign trade  in  1985,  excluding  bulk  oil  transport.  Ashdod  and  Elat 
(Red  Sea)  other  major  cargo  ports.  Oil  terminals  at  Elat  and  near 
Ashqelon;  coal  terminal  at  Hadera. 

Airports:  International  airport  at  Lod;  smaller  airport  at  Elat. 

Pipelines:  Elat  to  near  Ashqelon  for  crude  oil  for  ongoing  ship- 
ment; branch  leads  to  Ashdod  and  Haifa  refineries  and  to  consump- 
tion centers,  including  Elat,  for  petroleum  products. 

Communications:  Modern,  developed  system  with  good  connec- 
tions via  cable  and  three  ground  satellite  stations  to  rest  of  world. 
In  FY  1986  about  1 .9  million  telephones.  In  late  1980s,  Israel  faced 
a  demand  for  more  telecommunications  services  than  it  was  able 
to  provide. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  Republic  and  parliamentary  democracy  headed  by 
president,  titular  head  of  state.  Executive  power  wielded  by  prime 
minister  and  cabinet  ministers  representing  dominant  political  blocs 
in  Knesset,  to  which  they  are  collectively  responsible.  Knesset  is 
unicameral  parliament  of  120  members  elected  at-large  every  four 
years  as  a  rule  by  direct  secret  ballot  and  under  system  of  propor- 
tional representation;  voting  for  party  lists  rather  than  individual 
candidates.  Electoral  system  remains  object  of  political  reform. 
Government  system  based  on  no  comprehensive  written  constitu- 
tion but  nine  Basic  Laws  enacted  by  Knesset.  Efforts  to  introduce 
constitution  delineating  principle  of  separation  of  powers  and  estab- 
lishing supremacy  of  civil  law  and  secular  bill  of  rights  have  so  far 
met  resistance.  Judiciary  independent  and  comprises  secular,  re- 
ligious, and  military  courts.  Integrity  and  performance  of  govern- 
mental system  checked  by  independent  and  influential  ombudsman, 
Office  of  the  State  Comptroller. 

Politics:  Multiparty  system  divided  into  four  main  categories:  left- 
of-center  parties,  right-of-center  parties,  right-wing  religious  parties, 


xvm 


and  Arab  parties.  Inconclusive  twelfth  Knesset  election  held  in 
November  1988  repeated  pattern  of  1984  Knesset  elections  with 
neither  major  party  able  to  form  cohesive  coalition  government 
without  other's  equal  participation.  This  resulted  in  formation  of 
National  Unity  Government.  Long-term  electoral  trends,  however, 
indicated  upswing  in  support  for  right-of-center  parties. 

Administrative  Divisions:  Divided  into  six  administrative  districts 
and  fourteen  subdistricts  under  ultimate  jurisdiction  of  Ministry 
of  Interior.  Occupied  territories  of  West  Bank  and  Gaza  Strip  and 
annexed  Golan  Heights  administered  by  Israel  Defense  Forces. 

Foreign  Affairs:  Foreign  policy  chiefly  influenced  by  Israel's  stra- 
tegic situation,  Palestinian-Israeli  conflict,  and  rejection  of  Israel 
by  most  Arab  states.  Diplomatic  relations  established  with  Egypt 
following  1979  Egypt-Israel  peace  treaty,  and  Israel  maintained 
de  facto  peaceful  relationship  with  Jordan.  General  consensus  in 
Israel  over  terms  of  1978  Camp  David  Accords,  but  disagreement 
over  principle  of  exchanging  land  for  peace,  particularly  over  West 
Bank,  and  direct  negotiations  with  Palestine  Liberation  Organi- 
zation. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  As  of  1987,  army  104,000  on  active  duty,  includ- 
ing 88,000  conscripts;  navy  8,000,  including  3,200  conscripts;  air 
force  39,000,  including  7,000  conscripts.  Reservists:  army  494,000, 
navy  1,000,  air  force  50,000.  Male  conscripts  served  three  years 
active  duty  and  female  conscripts  twenty  months;  annual  reserve 
duty  for  males  thirty  to  sixty  days  following  active  service.  Paramili- 
tary groups  included  Nahal,  combining  military  service  with  work 
in  agricultural  settlements,  and  Gadna,  providing  military  train- 
ing at  high  school  level. 

Combat  Units  and  Major  Equipment:  As  of  1987,  on  mobiliza- 
tion, army  had  eleven  divisions  composed  of  thirty- three  armored 
brigades;  also  nine  independent  mechanized  brigades,  three  infantry 
brigades,  five  paratroop  brigades,  fifteen  artillery  brigades. 
Equipped  with  3,900  tanks  and  8,000  other  armored  vehicles.  Navy 
had  100  combat  vessels,  including  3  submarines,  19  missile  attack 
craft,  40  coastal  patrol  boats.  Three  missile  corvettes  and  two  sub- 
marines on  order.  Air  force  had  655  combat  aircraft  organized  into 
twelve  fighter-interceptor  squadrons,  six  fighter  squadrons,  one 
reconnaissance  squadron.  First-line  fighters  were  F-15s,  F-16s,  and 
Kfirs. 


xix 


Equipment  Sources:  Large  domestic  defense  industry  of  state- 
owned  and  privately  owned  firms  produced  aircraft,  missiles,  small 
arms,  munitions,  electronics,  and  communications  gear.  Export 
sales  of  US$1 .2  billion  annually  exceeded  production  for  domestic 
use.  United  States  military  aid  running  at  US$1 .8  billion  annually, 
including  fighter  aircraft,  helicopters,  missile  boats,  and  funding 
for  Israeli-manufactured  weapons. 

Military  Budget:  US$5.6  billion  in  Israeli  fiscal  year  1987;  ap- 
proximately 14  percent  of  GNP  and  25  percent  of  total  govern- 
ment budget. 

Police  and  Intelligence  Agencies:  As  of  1986,  Israel 
Police — 20,874,  including  Border  Police  of  approximately  5,000 
and  Palestinian  Police  (1,000).  Auxiliary  forces  included  Civil 
Defense  Corps  of  army  reservists  (strength  unknown)  and  Civil 
Guard  (approximately  100,000  volunteers).  Separate  intelligence 
organizations  included  Mossad  (external),  Shin  Bet  (domestic),  and 
Aman  (military). 


xx 


International 
boundary 

District 
boundary 

National  capital 

District  center 

Armistice 
1949 

Armistice  line 
1950 

40  Kilometers 


The  1 950  Israeli  proclamation 
that  Jerusalem  be  the  national 
capital  is  not  recognized  by  the 
United  Slates  government. 


United  Nations 
Disengagement 
Observer  Force  Zone 


GOLAN  HEIGHTS 

(fsr&eb  occupied}  33 


SYRIA 


Cease-ire  line,  198? 


Amman 


Mediterranean  Sea 


\  SOUTHERN 

\ 

\ 


EGYPT 


-30 


;  ) 


34 


guff  of  Kqaba 


5  Boundary, 
i     not  necesi 


32- 


JORDAN 


31 


30 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions,  Israel,  1988 


xxn 


Introduction 


ISRAEL  OBSERVED  THE  fortieth  anniversary  of  its  founding 
as  a  state  in  1988.  Although  a  young  nation  in  the  world  commu- 
nity, Israel  has  been  profoundly  influenced  by  Jewish  history  that 
dates  back  to  biblical  times  as  well  as  by  the  Zionist  movement 
in  nineteenth-  and  twentieth-century  Europe.  These  two  strands, 
frequently  in  conflict  with  one  another,  helped  to  explain  the  ten- 
sions in  Israeli  society  that  existed  in  the  late  1980s.  Whereas  Ortho- 
dox Judaism  emphasized  the  return  to  the  land  promised  by  God 
to  Abraham,  secular  Zionism  stressed  the  creation  of  a  Jewish  na- 
tion state. 

Zionism  historically  has  taken  different  forms,  and  these  varia- 
tions were  reflected  in  twentieth-century  Israeli  society.  The  lead- 
ing type  of  early  Zionism,  political  Zionism,  came  out  of  Western 
Europe  in  large  measure  as  a  response  to  the  failure  of  the  eman- 
cipation of  Jews  in  France  in  1791  to  produce  in  the  succeeding 
century  the  degree  of  the  anticipated  reduction  in  anti-Semitism. 
Jewish  assimilation  into  West  European  society  was  inhibited  by 
the  anti-Jewish  prejudice  resulting  from  the  1894  trial  of  Alfred 
Dreyfus,  a  French  Jewish  officer.  Theodor  Herzl,  a  Hungarian  Jew, 
in  1896  published  a  book  advocating  the  creation  of  a  Jewish  state 
to  which  West  European  Jews  would  immigrate,  thus  solving  the 
Jewish  problem.  Rather  than  emphasizing  creation  of  a  political 
entity,  cultural  Zionism,  a  product  of  oppressed  East  European 
Jewry,  advocated  the  establishment  in  Palestine  of  self-reliant  Jewish 
settiements  to  create  a  Hebrew  cultural  renaissance.  Herzl  was  will- 
ing to  have  the  Jewish  state  located  in  Uganda  but  East  European 
Jews  insisted  on  the  state's  being  in  Palestine,  and  after  Herzl' s 
death  in  1904,  the  cultural  Zionists  prevailed.  Meanwhile,  the  need 
arose  for  practical  implementation  of  the  Zionist  dream  and  Labor 
Zionism  came  to  the  fore,  appealing  particularly  to  young  Jews 
who  were  influenced  by  socialist  movements  in  Russia  and  who 
sought  to  flee  the  pogroms  in  Eastern  Europe.  Labor  Zionism 
advocated  socialism  to  create  an  equitable  Jewish  society  and 
stressed  the  integration  of  class  and  nation.  David  Ben-Gurion, 
who  came  to  Palestine  in  1906,  became  a  leader  of  this  group,  which 
favored  a  strong  economic  basis  for  achieving  political  power.  Labor 
Zionism  in  turn  was  challenged  by  the  Revisionist  Zionism  of 
Vladimir  Jabotinsky,  a  Russian  Jew  who  glorified  nationalism  and 
sought  to  promote  Jewish  immigration  to  Palestine  and  the  im- 
mediate declaration  of  Jewish  statehood. 


xxm 


The  Zionist  cause  was  furthered  during  World  War  I  by  Chaim 
Weizmann,  a  British  Jewish  scientist,  skilled  in  diplomacy,  who 
recognized  that  Britain  would  play  a  major  role  in  the  postwar  set- 
tlement of  the  Middle  East.  At  that  time  Britain  was  seeking  the 
wartime  support  of  the  Arabs,  and  in  the  October  1915  correspon- 
dence between  Sharif  Husayn  of  Mecca  and  Sir  Henry  McMahon, 
British  high  commissioner  in  Egypt,  Britain  endorsed  Arab  post- 
war independence  in  an  imprecisely  defined  area  that  apparently 
included  Palestine.  In  November  1917,  however,  Britain  commit- 
ted itself  to  the  Zionist  cause  by  the  issuance  of  the  Balfour  Decla- 
ration, which  stated  that  the  British  government  viewed  with  favor 
"the  establishment  in  Palestine  of  a  National  Home  for  the  Jew- 
ish People,"  while  the  "civil  and  religious  rights  of  existing  non- 
Jewish  communities  in  Palestine"  were  not  to  suffer.  These  two 
concurrent  commitments  ultimately  proved  irreconcilable. 

During  the  succeeding  decades  until  the  Holocaust  conducted 
by  Nazi  Germany  during  World  War  II,  Jewish  immigration  to 
Palestine  continued  at  a  fairly  steady  pace.  The  Holocaust,  in  which 
nearly  6  million  Jews  lost  their  lives,  gave  an  impetus  to  the  crea- 
tion of  the  state  of  Israel:  thousands  of  Jews  sought  to  enter  Pales- 
tine while  Britain,  as  the  mandatory  power,  imposed  limits  on 
Jewish  immigration  to  safeguard  the  indigenous  Arab  inhabitants. 
An  untenable  situation  developed,  and  in  1947  Britain  referred  the 
Palestine  problem  to  the  United  Nations  General  Assembly.  The 
latter  body  approved  a  resolution  on  November  29,  1947,  calling 
for  a  complex  partition  of  Palestine  into  an  Arab  and  a  Jewish  state. 
The  Arab  Higher  Committee  rejected  the  resolution,  and  violence 
increased.  The  establishment  of  the  State  of  Israel  was  declared 
on  May  14,  1948,  and  Arab  military  forces  began  invading  the 
territory  the  following  day.  By  January  1949,  Israel  had  gained 
more  territory  than  had  been  allotted  by  the  partition;  East  Jerusa- 
lem and  the  West  Bank  of  the  Jordan  River  remained  in  Jordanian 
hands  as  a  result  of  fighting  by  the  Arab  Legion  of  Transjordan, 
and  the  Gaza  area  remained  in  Egyptian  hands  (see  fig.  1).  Israel 
held  armistice  talks  with  the  Arab  states  concerned  in  the  first  half 
of  1949  and  armistice  lines  were  agreed  upon,  but  no  formal  peace 
treaties  ensued. 

Having  achieved  statehood,  the  new  government  faced  numer- 
ous problems.  These  included  the  continued  ingathering  of  Jews 
from  abroad,  the  provision  of  housing,  education,  health  and  wel- 
fare facilities,  and  employment  for  the  new  immigrants;  the  estab- 
lishment of  all  requisite  government  services  as  well  as  expanding 
the  country's  infrastructure;  the  expropriation  of  Arab  lands — 
including  lands  left  by  Arabs  who  had  fled  during  the  1948  war 


xxiv 


as  well  as  by  Arabs  obliged  by  the  government  to  relocate — so  as 
to  provide  a  livelihood  for  new  immigrants;  the  establishment  of 
a  military  government  to  administer  Arab  population  areas;  and 
the  growth  of  the  Israel  Defense  Forces  (IDF)  to  safeguard  national 
security. 

Tensions  continued  to  exist  between  Israel  and  its  neighbors, 
and  as  a  result  a  series  of  wars  occurred:  in  1956  in  the  Suez  Canal 
area;  in  June  1967,  during  which  Israel  captured  the  Golan  Heights, 
the  Sinai  Peninsula,  the  Gaza  Strip,  East  Jerusalem,  and  the  West 
Bank,  adding  about  800,000  Palestinian  Arabs  to  its  population; 
and  in  October  1973,  a  war  that  destroyed  Israel's  image  of  its  in- 
vincibility. Israel's  poor  showing  in  the  early  days  of  the  1973  war 
led  to  considerable  popular  disenchantment  with  the  ruling  Labor 
Party;  this  declining  popularity,  combined  with  the  growing  number 
of  Oriental  Jews  who  identified  more  readily  with  the  religious  ex- 
pressions of  Menachem  Begin  than  with  Labor's  socialist  policies, 
contributed  to  the  coming  to  power  of  the  conservative  Likud  Bloc 
in  the  May  1977  elections. 

The  rise  of  Oriental  Jews  illustrated  the  changing  pattern  of  eth- 
nicity in  the  course  of  Jewish  history.  In  the  late  nineteenth  cen- 
tury, the  majority  of  the  Jewish  population  in  Palestine  was  of 
Sephardic  (Spanish  or  Portuguese)  origin,  but  by  the  time  the  State 
of  Israel  was  created  Ashkenazim  (Jews  of  Central  or  East  Euro- 
pean origin)  constituted  77  percent  of  the  population.  By  the 
mid-1970s,  however,  as  a  result  of  the  influx  of  Oriental  Jews  from 
North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East,  the  Ashkenazi  majority  had  been 
reversed,  although  Ashkenazim  still  dominated  Israel's  political, 
economic,  and  social  structures.  Oriental  immigrants  tended  to 
resent  the  treatment  they  had  received  in  transition  camps  and  de- 
velopment towns  at  the  hands  of  the  Labor  government  that  ruled 
Israel  for  almost  thirty  years.  Furthermore,  Orientals  experienced 
discrimination  in  housing,  education,  and  employment;  they  recog- 
nized that  they  constituted  a  less  privileged  group  in  society  that 
came  to  be  known  as  the  ''Second  Israel." 

In  addition  to  the  Ashkenazi-Oriental  division,  Israel  has  faced 
a  cleavage  between  religiously  observant  Orthodox  Jews  and  secular 
Jews,  who  constituted  a  majority  of  the  population.  In  broad  terms, 
most  secular  Jews  were  Zionists  who  sought  in  various  ways,  de- 
pending on  their  conservative,  liberal,  or  socialist  political  views, 
to  support  governmental  programs  to  strengthen  Israel  economi- 
cally, politically,  and  militarily.  Jews  belonging  to  religious  politi- 
cal parties,  however,  tended  to  be  concerned  with  strict  observance 
of  religious  law,  or  halakah,  and  with  preserving  the  purity  of  Juda- 
ism. The  latter  was  reflected  in  the  views  of  religiously  observant 


xxv 


Jews  who  accepted  as  Jews  only  persons  born  of  a  Jewish  mother 
and  the  ultra-Orthodox  who  considered  conversions  by  Reform  or 
Conservative  rabbis  as  invalid. 

A  further  divisive  element  in  Israeli  society  concerned  the  role 
of  minorities:  Arab  Muslims,  Christians,  and  Druzes.  These  sec- 
tors together  constituted  approximately  18  percent  of  Israel's  popu- 
lation in  late  1989,  with  a  birth  rate  in  each  case  higher  than  that 
of  Jews.  Israelis  in  the  late  1980s  frequently  expressed  concern  over 
government  statistics  that  indicated  that  the  high  birthrate  among 
Arabs  in  Israel  proper  (quite  apart  from  the  West  Bank)  had  resulted 
in  an  Arab  population  majority  in  Galilee.  They  were  concerned 
as  well  over  the  comparative  youth  of  the  Arab  population  in  com- 
parison with  the  Jewish  population.  In  general,  members  of  the 
ethnic  minorities  were  less  well  off  in  terms  of  employment,  hous- 
ing, and  education  than  the  average  for  the  Jewish  population. 

The  role  of  the  Arab  minority  in  Israel's  economy  has  histori- 
cally been  controversial.  Labor  Zionism  advocated  that  all  man- 
ual labor  on  kibbutzim  and  moshavim  (see  Glossary)  be  performed 
by  Jewish  immigrants  themselves.  As  immigration  increased, 
however,  and  immigrants  had  skills  needed  by  the  new  state  in  areas 
other  than  agriculture,  cheap  Arab  labor  came  to  be  used  for  agricul- 
tural and  construction  purposes.  After  the  occupation  of  the  West 
Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip  in  1967,  Arab  day  laborers  became  an 
even  more  important  factor  in  the  Israeli  economy,  providing  as 
much  as  30  percent  of  the  work  force  in  some  spheres,  and  in  many 
instances  replacing  Oriental  Jews  who  had  performed  the  more 
menial  tasks  in  Israeli  society. 

Despite  its  historical  importance  in  Israel,  agriculture  has  not 
had  major  economic  significance.  For  example,  in  1985  agricul- 
ture provided  just  over  5  percent  of  Israel's  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP — see  Glossary)  whereas  industry  contributed  almost  five 
times  as  much.  Israel's  skilled  work  force  excelled  in  the  industrial 
sphere,  particularly  in  high-technology  areas  such  as  electronics, 
biotechnology,  chemicals,  and  defense-related  industries  or  in  such 
highly  skilled  occupations  as  diamond  cutting. 

Although  Israel  had  human  resources,  the  lack  of  capital  on  the 
part  of  many  new  immigrants  after  1948  obliged  the  government 
to  provide  funds  for  developing  the  country's  infrastructure  and 
for  many  enterprises.  This  policy  resulted  in  a  quasi-socialist  econ- 
omy in  which  ownership  fell  into  three  broad  categories:  private, 
public,  and  HaHistadrut  HaKlalit  shel  HaOvdim  B'Eretz  Yisrael 
(General  Federation  of  Laborers  in  the  Land  of  Israel)  known  as 
Histadrut  (see  Glossary),  the  overall  trade  union  organization.  Israel 
depended  to  a  large  degree  on  funds  contributed  by  Jews  in  the 


xxvi 


Diaspora  (see  Glossary)  to  provide  government  services  necessary 
to  settle  new  immigrants  and  to  establish  economic  ventures  that 
would  ensure  jobs  as  well  as  to  maintain  the  defense  establishment 
at  a  high  level  of  readiness,  in  view  of  Israel's  position  as  a  "garri- 
son democracy"  surrounded  by  potential  enemies.  Despite  the  in- 
flow of  money  from  Jews  in  the  Diaspora,  as  a  result  of  large 
government  spending  for  defense  and  domestic  purposes,  Israel 
has  generally  been  a  debtor  nation  and  has  relied  heavily  on  grants 
and  loans  from  the  United  States.  Israel  in  the  early  1980s  also 
had  to  deal  with  runaway  inflation  that  reached  about  450  percent 
in  fiscal  year  (FY — see  Glossary)  1984.  To  curb  such  inflation,  the 
government  instituted  the  Economic  Stabilization  Program  in  July 
1985  that  reduced  inflation  in  1986  to  20  percent. 

By  1987,  the  Economic  Stabilization  Program  had  led  to  a  sig- 
nificant increase  in  economic  activity  in  Israel.  Increased  certainty 
brought  about  by  the  Economic  Stabilization  Program  stimulated 
improved  growth  in  income  and  productivity.  Between  July  1985 
and  May  1988,  a  cumulative  increase  in  productivity  of  10  per- 
cent occurred.  The  1987  cuts  in  personal,  corporate,  and  employer 
tax  rates  and  in  employer  national  insurance  contributions  stimu- 
lated net  investment  during  the  same  period. 

The  freezing  of  public  sector  employment  occasioned  by  the  Eco- 
nomic Stabilization  Program  began  lessening  the  role  of  govern- 
ment in  the  economy  and  increased  the  supply  of  labor  available 
to  the  business  community.  However,  the  outbreak  of  the  intifadah 
(uprising)  in  December  1987  had  an  adverse  impact  on  these  trends. 

The  government  has  played  a  major  role  in  social  and  economic 
life.  Even  prior  to  the  achievement  of  statehood  in  1948,  the  coun- 
try's political  leaders  belonged  primarily  to  the  Labor  Party's 
predecessor,  Mapai,  which  sought  to  inculcate  socialist  principles 
into  various  aspects  of  society.  Creating  effective  government  under 
the  circumstances  prevailing  in  1948,  however,  entailed  com- 
promises between  the  Labor  Zionist  leadership  and  the  Orthodox 
religious  establishment.  These  compromises  were  achieved  by  creat- 
ing a  framework  that  lacked  a  written  constitution  but  relied  in- 
stead on  a  number  of  Basic  Laws  governing  such  aspects  as  the 
organization  of  the  government,  the  presidency,  the  parliament 
or  Knesset,  the  judiciary,  and  the  army.  An  uneasy  tension  con- 
tinued, however,  between  religiously  observant  and  secular  Jews. 
For  example,  in  protest  against  the  proposed  new  Basic  Law: 
Human  Rights  (and  a  possible  change  in  the  electoral  system), 
which  Agudat  Israel,  a  small  ultra-Orthodox  religious  party,  be- 
lieved would  have  an  adverse  effect  on  Orthodox  Jews,  in  early 


xxvn 


November  1989  the  party  left  the  National  Unity  Government  for 
two  months. 

Until  1977  the  government  operated  under  a  political  power  sys- 
tem with  two  dominant  parties,  Labor  and  Likud.  As  a  result  of 
the  1977  elections,  in  which  Labor  lost  control  of  the  government, 
a  multiparty  system  evolved  in  which  it  became  necessary  for  each 
major  party  to  obtain  the  support  of  minor  parties  in  order  to 
govern,  or  for  the  two  major  parties  to  form  a  coalition  or  govern- 
ment of  national  unity,  as  occurred  in  1984  and  1988.  The  result 
of  Israel's  proportional  electoral  system,  in  which  voters  endorsed 
national  party  lists  rather  than  candidates  in  a  given  geographic 
area,  has  been  a  stalemate  in  which  the  smaller  parties,  especially 
the  growing  right-wing  religious  parties,  have  been  able  to  exert 
disproportionate  influence  in  the  formation  of  governments  and 
on  government  policies.  This  situation  has  led  to  numerous 
proposals  for  electoral  reform,  which  were  still  being  studied  in  early 
1990,  but  which  had  a  marginal  chance  of  enactment  because  of 
the  vested  interests  of  the  parties  involved. 

A  major  factor  in  Israel's  political  alignment  has  been  its  rela- 
tions with  other  countries,  particularly  those  of  the  West,  because 
of  its  dependence  on  financial  support  from  abroad.  Although 
Israel's  relations  with  the  United  States  and  Western  Europe  have 
generally  been  good,  since  late  1987  criticism  has  grown  in  the  West 
of  Israel's  handling  of  the  uprising  in  the  occupied  territories  of 
the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip.  The  agreement  by  the  United 
States  in  December  1988  to  initiate  discussions  with  the  Palestine 
Liberation  Organization  (PLO)  has  indicated  that  United  States 
and  Israeli  interests  may  not  necessarily  be  identical.  Furthermore, 
the  feeling  has  increased  that  the  United  States  should  exert  greater 
pressure  on  Israel  to  engage  in  negotiations  with  the  Palestinians 
and  to  abandon  its  "greater  Israel"  stance,  as  expressed  by  Secre- 
tary of  State  James  A.  Baker  on  May  22,  1989.  In  October  1989, 
Baker  proposed  a  five-point  "framework"  that  involved  Israel,  the 
United  States,  and  Egypt  to  try  to  advance  Prime  Minister  Yitzhak 
Shamir's  plan  for  elections  in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip. 
Israel  agreed  in  principle  in  November  but  attached  two  reserva- 
tions: that  the  PLO  not  be  involved  in  the  naming  of  Palestinian 
delegates  and  that  the  discussions  be  limited  to  preparations  for 
the  elections. 

In  addition  to  relations  with  the  West,  Israel  has  sought  to  ex- 
pand its  economic  relations,  particularly,  with  both  Third  World 
countries  and  with  Eastern  Europe  and  the  Soviet  Union,  and  to 
influence  the  latter  to  allow  increased  emigration  of  Jews.  The  sharp 
upswing  in  Soviet  Jewish  immigration  to  Israel— approximately 


xxvm 


2,000  persons  in  November  1989  and  3,700  in  December,  with 
a  continued  influx  in  mid-January  1990  at  the  rate  of  more  than 
1,000  persons  per  week — led  to  an  announcement  that  Israel  would 
resettle  100,000  Soviet  Jews  over  the  following  three  years.  The 
cost  was  estimated  at  US$2  billion,  much  of  which  Israel  hoped 
to  raise  in  the  United  States.  This  influx  aroused  considerable  con- 
cern on  the  part  of  Palestinian  Arabs,  who  feared  many  Soviet  Jews 
would  settle  in  the  West  Bank. 

Israel's  relations  with  neighboring  states  have  been  uneven.  Egyp- 
tian president  Anwar  as  Sadat's  historic  visit  to  Jerusalem  in 
November  1977  led  to  the  Camp  David  Accords  in  September  1978 
and  ultimately  to  the  signing  of  a  peace  treaty  and  the  return  of 
the  Sinai  Peninsula  to  Egypt.  In  1989  Egypt  began  to  play  an  in- 
creasingly prominent  role  as  mediator  between  Israel  and  the  Pales- 
tinians, particularly  as  reflected  in  President  Husni  Mubarak's 
ten-point  peace  proposals  in  July.  The  PLO  accepted  the  points 
in  principle,  and  the  Israel  Labor  Party  considered  them  a  viable 
basis  for  negotiations. 

Tensions  continued  along  Israel's  northern  border  with  Leba- 
non because  of  incursions  into  Israel  by  Palestinian  guerrillas  based 
in  Lebanon.  These  raids  led  to  Israel's  invasion  of  Lebanon  (known 
in  Israel  as  Operation  Peace  for  Galilee)  in  June  1982,  the  siege 
of  Beirut,  the  Israeli  occupation  of  southern  Lebanon,  and  with- 
drawal to  the  armistice  line  in  June  1985.  As  a  result,  relations 
with  factions  in  Lebanon  and  relations  with  Syria  remained  tense 
in  early  1990,  whereas  Israeli  relations  with  Jordan  had  ended  in 
cooperation  agreements  concerning  the  West  Bank;  such  agree- 
ments were  canceled  by  King  Hussein's  disclaimer  on  July  31 ,  1989, 
of  Jordanian  involvement  in  the  West  Bank. 

Israel's  relationship  with  its  neighbors  must  be  understood  in 
the  context  of  its  overriding  concern  for  preserving  its  national  secu- 
rity. Israel  saw  itself  as  existing  alone,  beleaguered  in  a  sea  of  Arabs. 
Accordingly,  it  has  developed  various  security  principles:  such  as 
anticipating  a  potential  extensive  threat  from  every  Arab  state,  need- 
ing strategic  depth  of  terrain  for  defensive  purposes,  or,  lacking 
that,  needing  an  Israeli  deterrent  that  could  take  a  conventional 
or  nuclear  form,  and  the  necessity  to  make  clear  to  neighboring 
states,  particularly  Syria,  actions  that  Israel  would  consider  potential 
causes  for  war.  Another  security  principle  was  Israeli  autonomy 
in  decision  making  concerning  military  actions  while  the  country 
concurrently  relied  on  the  United  States  for  military  materiel. 
(United  States  military  aid  to  Israel  averaged  US$1.8  billion  an- 
nually in  the  mid-  and  late  1980s;  other  United  States  government 

xxix 


aid  from  1985  onward  brought  the  total  to  more  than  US$3  billion 
annually). 

Because  of  its  national  security  concerns,  the  IDF,  primarily  a 
citizen  army,  has  played  a  leading  role  in  Israeli  society.  With  ex- 
ceptions granted  to  Orthodox  individuals  for  religious  reasons,  men 
and  women  have  an  obligation  to  perform  military  service,  a  fac- 
tor that  has  acted  to  equalize  and  educate  Israel's  heterogeneous 
Jewish  population.  Although  Israel  operates  on  the  principle  of 
civilian  control  of  defense  matters,  a  number  of  the  country's  leaders 
have  risen  to  political  prominence  on  retiring  from  the  military, 
such  as  Moshe  Dayan,  Yitzhak  Rabin,  Ezer  Weizman,  and  Ariel 
Sharon.  The  key  national  role  of  the  IDF  and  its  pursuit  of  the 
most  up-to-date  military  materiel,  although  costly,  have  benefited 
the  economy.  Defense- related  industries  are  a  significant  employer, 
and,  through  military  equipment  sales,  also  serve  as  a  leading  source 
of  foreign  currency.  Israel  has  excelled  in  arms  production  and  has 
developed  weapons  used  by  the  United  States  and  other  countries. 

The  IDF  has  not  only  served  in  a  traditional  military  capacity 
in  the  wars  in  which  Israel  has  been  engaged  since  1948.  Since  1967 
it  also  has  exercised  military  government  functions  in  the  West  Bank 
and  the  Gaza  Strip.  This  role  has  proved  particularly  onerous  for 
Israeli  citizen  soldiers  once  the  intifadah  began  in  December  1987. 

The  intifadah  has  probably  had  a  greater  impact  on  the  lives  of 
both  Palestinians  and  Israelis  than  any  other  event  in  recent  years. 
For  Palestinians  in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip,  the  upris- 
ing has  created  a  new  younger  generation  of  leadership,  a  sense 
of  self-reliance,  and  an  ability  to  transcend  religious,  political,  eco- 
nomic, and  social  differences  in  forming  a  common  front  against 
the  Israeli  occupation.  In  so  doing,  Palestinians  have  organized 
themselves  into  local  popular  committees  (coordinated  at  the  top 
by  the  Unified  National  Command  of  the  Uprising)  to  handle  such 
matters  as  education,  food  cultivation  and  distribution,  medical 
care,  and  communications.  Committee  membership  remained 
secret,  as  such  membership  was  declared  a  prison  offense  in  August 
1988.  Observers  have  commented  that  the  committees  were  relia- 
bly considered  to  include  representatives  of  various  political  fac- 
tions within  the  PLO  and  some  of  its  more  radical  offshoots,  as 
well  as  communists  and  members  of  the  Muslim  fundamentalist 
Islamic  Resistance  Movement,  known  as  Hamas.  Israeli  authori- 
ties initially  endorsed  Hamas  in  the  hope  that  it  would  draw  Arabs 
from  the  PLO  (Hamas  was  given  time  on  Israeli  television  in  the 
November  1988  elections),  but  as  it  became  more  powerful,  espe- 
cially in  the  Gaza  Strip,  Israel  outlawed  Hamas,  Islamic  Jihad  (Holy 
War),  and  Hizballah  (Party  of  God),  which  were  radical  Muslim 


xxx 


groups,  in  June  1989,  setting  jail  terms  of  ten  years  for  members. 
The  PLO  itself  had  been  banned  earlier  in  the  occupied  territories. 

Various  restrictions  and  punishments  have  been  imposed  from 
time  to  time  and  in  different  locations  on  West  Bank  and  Gaza 
Strip  residents  since  the  intifadah  began.  Among  actions  taken 
against  Palestinians  in  the  West  Bank  was  the  outlawing  of  profes- 
sional unions  of  doctors,  lawyers,  and  engineers  in  August  1988. 
Universities  in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip  have  been  closed 
since  October  1987.  Schools  in  the  West  Bank  were  closed  for  more 
than  six  months  in  1988  and,  after  reopening  in  December  1988, 
were  again  closed  one  month  later;  schools  were  open  for  only  three 
months  in  1989.  Instruction  in  homes  or  elsewhere  was  punish- 
able by  imprisonment.  Extended  curfews  have  been  instituted,  often 
requiring  people's  confinement  to  their  houses.  (For  example,  the 
approximately  130,000  Palestinian  inhabitants  of  Nabulus  ex- 
perienced an  eleven-day  curfew  in  February  1989,  during  which 
United  Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees 
in  the  Near  East  trucks  bearing  food  were  forbidden  to  enter  the 
city).  Water,  electricity,  and  telephone  service  have  been  cut,  and 
periodically  Palestinian  workers  have  been  refused  permission  to 
enter  Israel  to  work.  By  the  end  of  1989,  at  least  244  houses  had 
been  destroyed,  affecting  almost  2,000  persons.  Beatings  and  shoot- 
ings had  resulted  in  795  deaths  and  more  than  45,000  injuries  by 
the  end  of  1989.  Approximately  48,000  Palestinians  had  been  ar- 
rested and  imprisoned  since  the  uprising  began  through  Decem- 
ber 1989.  Administrative  detention  without  charge,  originally  for 
a  period  of  six  months  and  increased  in  August  1989  to  twelve 
months,  was  imposed  on  about  7,900  Palestinians,  and  61  Pales- 
tinians had  been  deported  from  Israel  by  the  end  of  1989.  These 
restrictions  were  documented  in  detail  in  the  United  States  Depart- 
ment of  State's  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices  and 
the  statistics  of  Al  Haq  (Law  in  the  Service  of  Man),  a  Ram  Allah- 
based  human  rights  organization.  Countermeasures  instituted  by 
Palestinians  have  included  demonstrations,  boycotts  of  Israeli 
products,  refusal  to  pay  taxes  (resulting  in  the  case  of  Bayt  Sahur, 
near  Bethlehem,  in  September  1989  of  extended  twenty-four-hour 
curfews  and  the  seizure  of  property  in  lieu  of  taxes),  strikes  and 
intermittent  closings  of  shops,  stonethrowing,  and  some  terrorist 
acts  including  the  use  of  fire  bombs,  and  the  killing  of  about  150 
Palestinians  considered  Israeli  collaborators. 

Both  Palestinians  and  foreign  observers  saw  the  intifadah  as  having 
had  a  profound  effect  on  the  PLO.  In  the  opinion  of  many  observ- 
ers, the  PLO  had  previously  sought  to  minimize  the  role  of  Pales- 
tinians in  the  occupied  territories  so  as  to  maintain  its  own  control 


xxxi 


of  the  Palestinian  movement.  The  coordinated  activities  of  the 
young  Palestinian  leadership  in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip 
since  the  uprising  have  obliged  the  PLO  to  relinquish  its  sole  leader- 
ship. The  PLO  has  been  compelled  to  support  solutions  for  the 
Palestinian  problem  that  it  had  previously  opposed  but  which  were 
favored  by  residents  of  the  occupied  territories,  namely  an  inter- 
national conference  to  resolve  the  Palestine  issue  and  a  two-state 
solution.  The  uprising  brought  pressure  on  the  Palestine  National 
Council,  which  included  representatives  of  Palestinians  through- 
out the  world,  to  bury  its  differences  and  to  provide  psychological 
support  to  Palestinians  within  the  occupied  territories  by  announc- 
ing the  creation  of  a  Palestinian  state  in  mid-November  1988. 

The  intifadah  has  also  had  a  substantial  impact  on  Israelis  be- 
cause of  the  escalation  of  violence.  Israeli  settlers  in  the  West  Bank 
have  taken  the  law  into  their  own  hands  on  numerous  occasions, 
shooting  and  killing  Palestinians.  In  the  course  of  the  intifadah,  44 
Israelis  had  been  killed  by  the  end  of  1989,  and,  according  to  Israeli 
government  statistics,  more  than  2,000  Israelis  had  been  injured. 
The  uprising  has  also  affected  Israeli  Arabs,  many  of  whom  have 
experienced  a  greater  sense  of  identity  with  their  Palestinian  brothers 
and  sisters.  Evidence  is  lacking,  however,  of  acts  of  violence  by 
Israeli  Arabs  against  Israeli  authorities,  something  that  many 
Israelis  had  anticipated. 

The  cost  to  Israel  of  quelling  the  uprising  has  been  calculated 
by  the  United  States  government  at  US$132  million  per  month, 
not  counting  the  loss  in  revenues  from  production  and  from 
tourism — the  latter  dropped  40  percent  but  were  beginning  to  rise 
again  in  late  1989.  The  violence  has  not  occurred  without  protest 
by  Israelis.  Many  of  the  soldiers  of  the  IDF,  for  example,  have 
found  particularly  distasteful  the  use  of  force  on  civilians,  espe- 
cially on  young  children,  women,  and  the  elderly,  and  have  com- 
plained to  government  leaders  such  as  Prime  Minister  Shamir.  The 
liberal  Israeli  movement  Peace  Now  organized  a  large-scale  peace 
demonstration  that  involved  Israelis  and  Palestinians  as  well  as 
about  1 ,400  foreign  peace  activists  on  December  30,  1989,  in  Jerusa- 
lem; more  than  15,000  persons  formed  a  human  chain  around  the 
city. 

Many  Israelis  have  expressed  concern  about  the  effects  of  the 
violence  on  Israel's  democratic  institutions  as  well  as  on  Israel's 
image  in  the  world  community.  A  number  of  Israeli  leaders  have 
publicly  advocated  a  political  rather  than  a  military  settlement  of 
the  uprising.  As  early  as  the  spring  of  1988,  a  group  of  retired  gen- 
erals, primarily  members  of  the  Labor  Party,  organized  the  Council 
for  Peace  and  Security,  maintaining  that  continued  occupation  of 


xxxn 


the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip  was  actually  harmful  to  Israel's 
security,  and  that  Israel  should  rely  on  the  IDF  rather  than  the 
occupied  territories  for  its  security.  The  Jaffee  Center  for  Strategic 
Studies  of  Tel  Aviv  University,  a  think  tank  composed  of  high- 
level  political  and  military  figures,  in  a  study  conducted  by  Aryeh 
Shalev,  retired  former  military  governor  of  the  West  Bank,  con- 
cluded in  December  1989  that  Israel's  repressive  measures  had  ac- 
tually fueled  the  uprising.  Among  individuals  who  have  spoken  out 
are  former  Foreign  Minister  Abba  Eban,  who  endorsed  chief  of 
staff  Lieutenant  General  Dan  Shomron's  view  that  the  intifadah  can- 
not be  solved  "because  it  is  a  matter  of  nationalism."  To  this  Eban 
added,  "You  cannot  fight  a  people  with  an  army."  Eban  main- 
tained that  the  PLO  could  not  endanger  Israel  because  Israel  had 
"540,000  soldiers,  3,800  tanks,  682  fighter-bombers,  thousands 
of  artillery  units,  and  a  remarkable  electronic  capacity."  Observ- 
ers have  pointed  out  that  Israel's  launching  on  September  19,  1988, 
of  the  Ofeq-1  experimental  satellite  provided  it  with  a  military  in- 
telligence potential  that  reduced  the  need  for  territorial  holdings. 
In  September  1989,  Israel  launched  Ofeq-2,  a  ballistic  missile  that 
further  demonstrated  Israel's  military  response  capabilities. 

Both  Eban  and  Ezer  Weizman,  minister  of  science  and  technol- 
ogy in  the  1988  National  Unity  Government,  favored  talking  with 
the  PLO,  as  did  General  Mordechai  Gur,  also  a  Labor  cabinet 
member,  former  military  intelligence  chief  General  Yehoshafat 
Harkabi,  and  several  other  generals.  The  Jaffee  Center  for  Stra- 
tegic Studies,  in  its  early  March  1989  report,  Israel's  Options  for  Peace, 
supported  talks  with  the  PLO.  In  fact,  informal  contacts  between 
Israelis  and  PLO  members  had  already  occurred,  although  such 
meetings  were  a  criminal  offense  for  Israelis.  On  February  23,  1989, 
PLO  chief  Yasir  Arafat  met  in  Cairo  with  fifteen  Israeli  journalists. 
In  early  March,  several  Knesset  members  met  PLO  officials  in  New 
York  at  a  conference  sponsored  by  Columbia  University.  In  other 
instances,  Egyptians,  Americans,  and  West  Bank  Palestinians  have 
served  as  intermediaries  in  bringing  Israelis  and  PLO  officials 
together.  In  October  1989,  however,  Abie  Nathan,  a  leading  Israeli 
peace  activist,  was  sentenced  to  six  months'  imprisonment  for  meet- 
ing PLO  members,  and  in  early  January  1990,  Ezer  Weizman  was 
forced  out  of  the  inner  cabinet  for  meeting  with  PLO  figures.  The 
families  of  Israeli  prisoners  of  war,  however,  were  authorized  in 
December  1989  to  contact  the  PLO  to  seek  the  prisoners'  release. 

In  addition  to  the  pressures  exerted  by  the  intifadah,  the  reason 
for  the  greater  willingness  to  talk  to  the  PLO  has  been  a  percep- 
tion that  the  PLO  has  followed  a  more  moderate  policy  than  in 
the  past.  For  example,  in  December  1988,  Arafat  explicitly  met 


xxxm 


United  States  conditions  for  discussions  with  the  PLO  by  announc- 
ing the  acceptance  of  United  Nations  Security  Council  Resolutions 
242  and  338,  which  indicated  recognition  of  the  State  of  Israel, 
and  by  renouncing  the  use  of  terrorism. 

The  majority  of  the  government  of  Israel  in  January  1990, 
however,  continued  to  oppose  talks  with  the  PLO.  For  example, 
on  January  19,  1989,  Minister  of  Defense  Rabin  proposed  that 
Palestinians  end  the  intifadah  in  exchange  for  an  opportunity  to  elect 
local  leaders  who  would  negotiate  with  the  Israeli  government.  The 
plan,  which  made  no  mention  of  the  PLO,  was  presented  to  Faisal 
Husayni,  head  of  the  Arab  Studies  Center  in  Jerusalem  and  a  West 
Bank  Palestinian  leader,  just  after  his  release  from  prison  on  Janu- 
ary 28.  Minister  of  Industry  and  Trade  Sharon  in  February  1989 
sharply  denounced  any  talks  with  the  PLO.  In  mid- April,  Prime 
Minister  Shamir  stated  that  he  would  not  withdraw  Israeli  troops 
from  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip  to  facilitate  free  Palestin- 
ian elections  in  those  areas,  nor  would  he  allow  international  ob- 
servers of  such  elections.  In  late  April,  Rabin  asserted  that  any 
PLO  candidate  in  Palestinian  elections  would  be  imprisoned. 

Despite  such  indications  of  an  apparent  negative  attitude  toward 
facilitating  peace  negotiations,  on  May  14,  1989,  Shamir  announced 
a  twenty-point  cabinet-approved  peace  plan,  which  he  had  aired 
privately  with  President  George  Bush  during  his  May  visit  to 
Washington.  The  basic  principles  of  the  plan  stated  that  Israel 
wished  to  continue  the  Camp  David  peace  process;  it  opposed  the 
creation  of  an  additional  Palestinian  state  in  the  Gaza  Strip  or  the 
West  Bank  (by  implication  Jordan  was  considered  already  to  be 
a  Palestinian  state);  it  would  not  negotiate  with  the  PLO;  and  there 
would  be  "no  change  in  the  status  of  Judea,  Samaria,  and  the  Gaza 
district,  unless  in  accord  with  the  basic  program  of  the  govern- 
ment." Israel  proposed  free  elections  in  the  occupied  territories, 
which  were  to  be  preceded  by  a  "calming  of  the  violence"  (the 
plan  did  not  specifically  set  forth  an  end  to  the  uprising  as  a  precon- 
dition for  elections,  as  Sharon  had  wished);  elections  were  to  choose 
representatives  to  negotiate  the  interim  stage  of  self-rule,  which 
was  set  at  five  years  to  test  coexistence  and  cooperation.  No  later 
than  three  years  after  the  interim  period  began,  negotiations  were 
to  start  for  a  final  solution;  negotiations  for  the  first  stage  were  to 
be  between  Israelis  and  Palestinians,  with  Jordan  and  Egypt  par- 
ticipating if  they  wished;  for  the  second  stage,  Jordan  would  also 
participate  and  Egypt  if  it  desired.  In  the  interim  period,  Israel 
would  be  responsible  for  security,  foreign  affairs,  and  matters  relat- 
ing to  Israeli  citizens  in  the  occupied  territories.  The  plan  made 
no  mention  of  voting  rights  for  the  approximately  140,000  Arab 


xxxiv 


residents  of  East  Jerusalem,  which  Israel  occupied  in  1967.  In  coun- 
tering Israeli  criticism  of  the  plan,  Shamir  restated  his  commit- 
ment not  to  yield  "an  inch  of  territory." 

Such  an  intransigent  position  also  characterized  those  Israeli  West 
Bank  settlers  whose  vigilante  tactics  have  created  problems  not  only 
for  Palestinians  but  also  for  the  IDF  in  the  occupied  territories. 
In  late  May  1989,  West  Bank  military  commander  Major  Gen- 
eral Amran  Mitzna  begged  a  visiting  Knesset  committee  to  help 
"stop  the  settlers'  incitement  against  the  Israel  Defense  Forces." 
The  settlers  were  provoked  by  the  army's  interference  with  their 
"reprisal  raids"  on  Palestinians.  The  substantial  reduction  in  IDF 
forces  in  the  West  Bank,  following  a  January  1989  reduction  in 
the  defense  appropriation  (variously  reported  as  US$67  or  US$165 
million)  was  followed  by  increased  settler  violence.  Concurrently, 
the  IDF  has  reduced  the  number  of  days  of  annual  service  to  be 
performed  by  reservists  from  sixty  (the  number  set  after  the  upris- 
ing began — it  was  thirty  before  the  intifadah)  to  forty-five,  as  a  direct 
economy  measure  and  to  minimize  the  impact  on  the  Israeli  econ- 
omy of  lengthy  reserve  service. 

The  serious  problems  facing  the  Israeli  economy  have  fallen  to 
Minister  of  Finance  Shimon  Peres,  who,  as  Labor  Party  head, 
served  as  prime  minister  in  the  previous  National  Unity  Govern- 
ment. The  need  to  remedy  the  serious  deficits  incurred  by  the  kib- 
butzim and  the  industries  operated  by  the  Histadrut,  both  areas 
of  the  economy  associated  with  the  Labor  Party,  were  considered 
a  major  reason  for  Peres' s  having  been  named  minister  of  finance 
in  the  new  1988  government.  Observers  have  commented  that  Peres 
made  a  slow  start  in  addressing  the  rising  inflation  rate,  which  was 
nearing  23  percent  in  1989;  the  growing  unemployment,  which 
amounted  to  more  than  9  percent;  and  the  budget  deficits.  In  late 
December,  Peres  announced  a  5  percent  devaluation  of  the  new 
Israeli  shekel  (for  value  of  the  shekel — see  Glossary)  and  a  week 
later,  when  unveiling  the  new  budget  on  January  1,  a  further 
8  percent  devaluation.  Budget  cuts  of  US$550  million  were  made 
in  addition  to  government  savings  of  US$220  million  by  reducing 
food  and  gasoline  subsidies.  The  government  also  announced  plans 
to  dismiss  thousands  of  civil  servants  and  to  cut  cost-of-living 
increases  for  all  workers.  These  components  were  collectively 
designed  to  revive  the  economy  and  to  stimulate  exports.  The  Israeli 
public,  however,  was  understandably  critical  of  these  harsh  mea- 
sures, which  made  Peres  personally  unpopular  and  decreased  the 
possibility  of  his  being  able  to  force  an  early  election  to  overturn 
the  Likud-led  National  Unity  Government. 


xxxv 


Israel  in  January  1990,  therefore,  faced  a  difficult  future.  Eco- 
nomically, the  country  was  undergoing  stringent  budgetary  limi- 
tations that  affected  all  Israelis.  Politically  and  militarily,  it 
confronted  the  ongoing  intifadah  and  the  question  of  its  willingness 
to  talk  to  the  PLO  and  to  consider  giving  up  land  for  peace,  or 
its  continued  use  of  the  IDF  to  repress  the  Palestinian  uprising  in 
the  occupied  territories.  Militarily,  it  faced  a  possible  threat  from 
its  enemy  Syria  as  well  as  from  the  battle-tested  army  of  Iraq.  Po- 
litically, Israel  was  challenged  by  the  growing  strength  of  right- 
wing  religious  and  religio-nationalist  parties  and  the  need  for  elec- 
toral reform  to  create  a  more  effective  system  of  government.  So- 
cially and  religiously,  the  country  faced  the  issue  of  reconciling  the 
views  of  Orthodox  Jews  with  those  of  secular  Jews,  considered  by 
most  observers  as  a  more  serious  problem  than  differences  between 
Oriental  Jews  and  Ashkenazim.  Any  Israeli  government  confronting 
such  challenges  was  indeed  called  upon  to  exercise  the  proverbial 
wisdom  of  Solomon. 

January  25,  1990 

*     *  * 

The  major  event  since  the  above  was  written  was  the  fall  on 
March  15  of  the  government  of  Likud  prime  minister  Yitzhak 
Shamir  on  a  no-confidence  vote  over  his  refusal  to  accept  the  United 
States  proposal  for  discussions  between  Israelis  and  Palestinians 
to  initiate  steps  toward  an  Israeli- Arab  peace  plan.  (Minister  of 
Commerce  and  Industry  Ariel  Sharon  had  resigned  from  the  coa- 
lition government  on  February  18  after  the  Likud  central  committee 
moved  toward  approving  such  a  dialogue).  The  fall  of  the  govern- 
ment, which  was  the  first  time  that  the  Knesset  had  dissolved  a 
government,  was  preceded  by  Shamir's  firing  of  Deputy  Prime 
Minister  Shimon  Peres  on  March  13,  leading  to  the  resignation 
of  all  other  Labor  Party  ministers  in  the  National  Unity  Govern- 
ment. The  no-confidence  vote  resulted  from  a  last-minute  deci- 
sion by  Shas,  a  small  ultra-Orthodox  Sephardic  party,  to  abstain 
from  voting,  giving  Labor  and  its  allies  a  sixty  to  fifty-five  major- 
ity in  the  Knesset.  On  March  20,  President  Chaim  Herzog  asked 
Peres  to  form  a  government;  despite  five-week  efforts  to  achieve 
a  coalition,  Peres  notified  Herzog  on  April  26  that  he  was  unable 
to  do  so.  This  process  again  was  a  first — the  first  time  in  forty-two 
years  that  a  prime  minister  candidate  designated  by  a  president 
had  failed  to  put  together  a  government.  On  April  27  the  man- 
date for  forming  a  government  was  given  to  Shamir,  who  as  of 


xxxvi 


early  May  was  still  negotiating.  Should  this  attempt  fail,  new  elec- 
tions will  be  required,  but  the  composition  of  the  Knesset  will  prob- 
ably not  change  significantly  in  such  an  election. 

Meanwhile,  the  negotiations  conducted  by  both  major  parties 
involved  bargaining  and  significant  material  and  policy  commit- 
ments to  tiny  fringe  parties,  particularly  the  religious  parties,  that 
were  out  of  proportion  to  their  strength.  As  a  result,  Israelis  have 
become  increasingly  disenchanted  with  their  electoral  system.  On 
April  7  a  demonstration  for  electoral  reform  drew  approximately 
100,000  Israelis,  the  largest  number  since  the  1982  demonstration 
protesting  Israel's  invasion  of  Lebanon.  More  than  70,000  people 
signed  a  petition,  endorsed  by  President  Herzog,  calling  for  the 
direct  election  of  the  prime  minister  and  members  of  the  Knesset 
so  as  to  eliminate  the  disproportionate  influence  of  small  parties. 
Moreover,  on  April  9  an  Israeli  public  opinion  poll  revealed  that 
80  percent  of  Israelis  favored  changing  the  electoral  system. 

The  situation  was  further  complicated  by  the  Israeli  response 
to  Secretary  of  State  Baker's  statement  on  March  1  that  the  United 
States  would  back  Israel's  request  for  a  US$400  million  loan  to 
construct  housing  for  Soviet  Jewish  immigrants  only  if  Israel  stopped 
establishing  settlements  in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip.  The 
Israeli  government  stated  that  this  condition  was  the  first  time  that 
the  United  States  government  had  linked  American  aid  to  the  way 
that  Israel  spent  its  own  money.  In  a  March  3  news  conference, 
President  Bush  included  East  Jerusalem  in  the  category  of  terri- 
tory occupied  by  Israel,  saying  that  the  United  States  government 
opposed  new  Jewish  immigrants  being  setded  there  (an  estimated 
115,000  Jews  and  140,000  Palestinian  Arabs  lived  in  East  Jerusa- 
lem as  of  March).  Prime  Minister  Shamir  announced  on  March  5 
that  new  Jewish  neighborhoods  of  East  Jerusalem  would  be  ex- 
panded as  rapidly  as  possible  to  settle  Soviet  Jews — 7,300  Soviet 
Jews  arrived  in  March  and  10,500  in  April. 

On  April  18,  Shamir  appointed  Michael  Dekel,  a  Likud  advo- 
cate of  settlements,  to  oversee  the  groundbreaking  for  four  new 
settlements  in  the  occupied  territories  of  the  West  Bank  and  the 
Gaza  Strip  and  to  try  to  buy  residential  property  in  the  Armenian 
Quarter  of  the  Old  City  of  Jerusalem  for  Jewish  occupancy.  This 
action  was  made  possible  by  the  absence  from  the  government  of 
Labor  Party  ministers,  who  had  been  opposing  various  settlement 
activities.  Government  sponsorship  of  Jewish  settlement  in  Jerusa- 
lem, although  initially  denied,  included  a  grant  of  US$1.8  million 
to  a  group  of  150  persons,  consisting  of  Jewish  religious  students 
and  their  families,  to  rent  through  a  third  party  St.  John's  Hospice 
in  the  Christian  Quarter  of  the  Old  City,  which  they  occupied  on 


xxxvn 


April  12,  the  eve  of  Good  Friday.  This  incident  caused  an  uproar 
among  Christian  Palestinians  and  led  to  the  protest  closing  of  Chris- 
tian churches  in  Jerusalem  for  one  day  on  April  27 — the  first  time 
in  800  years  that  the  Church  of  the  Holy  Sepulcher  had  been  closed. 
Jerusalem  Mayor  Teddy  Kollek  testified  in  court  opposing  the  set- 
tlement on  the  grounds  that  it  would  damage  Israel's  international 
reputation,  harm  public  order  in  the  Christian  Quarter,  and  dis- 
rupt the  delicate  and  established  ethnic  balance  of  Jerusalem.  The 
Supreme  Court  announced  on  April  26  that  it  upheld  the  eviction 
of  the  settlers  by  May  1. 

In  other  developments,  the  European  Community  threatened 
sanctions  against  Israel  unless  the  government  allowed  the  reopen- 
ing of  Palestinian  institutions  of  higher  education  in  the  West  Bank 
and  the  Gaza  Strip,  which  had  been  closed  since  October  1987.  In 
reply,  Israel  stated  on  February  26  that  it  would  allow  sixteen  com- 
munity colleges  and  vocational  institutions,  serving  approximately 
18,000  Palestinian  students,  to  reopen  in  stages  on  unspecified  dates. 

Iraq's  president  Saddam  Husayn,  who  was  extremely  fearful  of 
an  Israeli  strike  against  Iraq,  on  April  2  threatened  that  Iraq  would 
use  chemical  weapons  against  Israel  if  it  attacked.  This  threat  out- 
raged the  world  community  and  was  followed  on  April  3  by  Israel's 
launch  of  a  new  three-stage  rocket  earth  satellite  into  a  surveillance 
orbit. 

Meanwhile,  the  intifadah  continued.  The  Palestine  Center  for 
Human  Rights  reported  on  March  19  that  878  Palestinian  fatali- 
ties had  occurred  up  to  that  date.  The  Israeli  human  rights  body 
stated  on  April  3  that  thirty  Palestinians  had  been  killed  by  Israeli 
army  gunfire  in  the  first  quarter  of  1990,  whereas  Palestinians  had 
killed  thirty-five  of  their  number  as  suspected  Israeli  collaborators 
over  the  same  period.  Israel  announced  on  February  18  a  15  per- 
cent reduction  in  the  defense  budget  for  1990-91,  together  with 
a  reduced  number  of  service  days  for  reservists,  caused  by  the  finan- 
cial costs  of  the  uprising.  No  end  to  the  intifadah  appeared  in  sight, 
with  well-informed  Israeli  sources  suggesting  that  the  uprising  had 
strengthened  the  convictions  of  Israelis  on  both  sides:  those  favor- 
ing territorial  maximalism  and  those  advocating  compromise.  The 
difference  was  thought  to  be  a  greater  realism,  with  maximalists 
feeling  that  the  territories  could  be  retained  only  by  removing  a 
number  of  Palestinians  from  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip, 
and  compromisers  recognizing  that  negotiations  with  the  PLO 
would  require  significant  concessions. 


May  2,  1990  Helen  Chapin  Metz 


xxxvm 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


A  Jew  wearing  a  tasseled  cap  or  simlah, 

shown  on  the  Black  Obelisk  of  Shalmaneser  III  (r.  859-825  B.C.) 


ON  MAY  14,  1948,  in  the  city  of  Tel  Aviv,  David  Ben-Gurion 
proclaimed  the  Declaration  of  the  Establishment  of  the  State  of 
Israel.  The  introductory  paragraph  affirmed  that  "Eretz  Yisrael 
(the  Land  of  Israel)  was  the  birthplace  of  the  Jewish  people.  Here 
they  first  attained  statehood,  created  cultural  values  of  national  and 
universal  significance,  and  gave  the  world  the  eternal  Book  of 
Books. "  The  issuance  of  the  proclamation  was  signaled  by  the  ritual 
blowing  of  the  shofar  (ram's-horn  trumpet)  and  was  followed  by 
the  recitation  of  the  biblical  verse  (Lev.  25:10):  "Proclaim  liberty 
throughout  the  land  and  to  all  the  inhabitants  thereof. ' '  The  same 
verse  is  inscribed  on  the  American  Liberty  Bell  in  Independence 
Hall  in  Philadelphia. 

The  reestablishment  of  the  Jewish  nation-state  in  Palestine  has 
been  the  pivotal  event  in  contemporary  Jewish  history.  After  nearly 
two  millennia  of  exile,  the  Jewish  people  were  brought  together 
in  their  ancient  homeland.  Despite  the  ancient  attachments  of  Jews 
to  biblical  Israel,  the  modern  state  of  Israel  is  more  deeply  rooted 
in  nineteenth-  and  twentieth-century  European  history  than  it  is 
in  the  Bible.  Thus,  although  Zionism — the  movement  to  establish 
a  national  Jewish  entity — is  rooted  in  the  messianic  impulse  of  tradi- 
tional Judaism  and  claims  a  right  to  Palestine  based  on  God's 
promise  to  Abraham,  the  vast  majority  of  Zionists  are  secularists. 

For  nearly  2,000  years  following  the  destruction  of  the  Second 
Temple  in  A.D.  70,  the  attachment  of  the  Jewish  Diaspora  (see 
Glossary)  to  the  Holy  Land  was  more  spiritual  then  physical.  The 
idea  of  an  ingathering  of  the  exiles  and  a  wholesale  return  to  the 
Holy  Land,  although  frequently  expressed  in  the  liturgy,  was  never 
seriously  considered  or  acted  upon.  Throughout  most  of  the  exilic 
experience,  the  Jewish  nation  connoted  the  world  Jewish  commu- 
nity that  was  bound  by  the  powerful  moral  and  ethical  ethos  of 
the  Jewish  religion.  The  lack  of  a  state  was  seen  by  many  as  a  vir- 
tue, for  it  ensured  that  Judaism  would  not  be  corrupted  by  the 
exigencies  of  statehood.  Despite  frequent  outbreaks  of  anti- 
Semitism,  Jewish  communities  survived  and  in  many  cases  thrived 
as  enclosed  communities  managed  by  a  clerical  elite  in  strict 
accordance  with  Jewish  law. 

Zionism  called  for  a  revolt  against  the  old  established  order  of 
religious  orthodoxy  (see  Origins  of  Zionism,  this  ch.).  It  repudiated 
nearly  2,000  years  of  Diaspora  existence,  claiming  that  the  Judaism 
of  the  Exile,  devoid  of  its  national  component,  had  rendered  the 


3 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Jews  a  defenseless  pariah  people.  As  such,  Zionism  is  the  most  radi- 
cal attempt  in  Jewish  history  to  escape  the  confines  of  traditional 
Judaism.  The  new  order  from  which  Zionism  sprang  and  to  which 
the  movement  aspired  was  nineteenth-century  liberalism:  the  age 
of  reason,  emancipation,  and  rising  nationalism. 

Before  Napoleon  emancipated  French  Jewry  in  1791,  continen- 
tal and  Central  European  Jews  had  been  forced  to  reside  in  desig- 
nated Jewish  "ghettos"  apart  from  the  non-Jewish  community. 
Emancipation  enabled  many  Jews  to  leave  the  confines  of  the  ghetto 
and  to  attain  unprecedented  success  in  business,  banking,  the  arts, 
medicine,  and  other  professions.  This  led  to  the  assimilation  of  many 
Jews  into  non -Jewish  European  society.  The  concomitant  rise  of 
ethnically  based  nationalisms,  however,  precluded  Jewish  partici- 
pation in  the  political  leadership  of  most  of  the  states  where  they 
had  settled.  Political  Zionism  was  born  out  of  the  frustrated  hopes 
of  emancipated  European  Jewry.  Political  Zionists  aspired  to  estab- 
lish a  Jewish  state  far  from  Europe  but  modeled  after  the  posteman- 
cipation  European  state. 

In  Eastern  Europe,  where  the  bulk  of  world  Jewry  lived,  any 
hope  of  emancipation  ended  with  the  assassination  of  the  reform- 
minded  Tsar  Alexander  II  in  1881.  The  pogroms  that  ensued  led 
many  Russian  Jews  to  emigrate  to  the  United  States,  while  others 
joined  the  communist  and  socialist  movements  seeking  to  overthrow 
the  tsarist  regime  and  a  much  smaller  number  sought  to  establish 
a  Jewish  state  in  Palestine.  Zionism  in  its  East  European  context 
evolved  out  of  a  Jewish  identity  crisis;  Jews  were  rapidly  abandoning 
religious  orthodoxy,  but  were  unable  to  participate  as  equal  citizens 
in  the  countries  where  they  lived.  This  was  the  beginning  of  cul- 
tural Zionism,  which  more  than  political  Zionism  attached  great 
importance  to  the  economic  and  cultural  content  of  the  new  state. 

The  most  important  Zionist  movement  in  Palestine  was  Labor 
Zionism,  which  developed  after  1903.  Influenced  by  the  Bolsheviks, 
the  Labor  movement  led  by  David  Ben-Gurion  created  a  highly 
centralized  Jewish  economic  infrastructure  that  enabled  the  Jewish 
population  of  Palestine  (the  Yishuv — see  Glossary)  to  absorb  waves 
of  new  immigrants  and  to  confront  successfully  the  growing  Arab 
and  British  opposition  during  the  period  of  the  British  Mandate 
(1920-48).  Following  independence  in  May  1948,  Ben-Gurion 's 
Labor  Zionism  would  guide  Israel  through  the  first  thirty  years 
of  statehood. 

The  advent  of  Zionism  and  the  eventual  establishment  of  the 
State  of  Israel  posed  anew  a  dilemma  that  has  confronted  Jews  and 
Judaism  since  ancient  times:  how  to  reconcile  the  moral  impera- 
tives of  the  Jewish  religion  with  the  power  politics  and  military  force 


4 


Historical  Setting 


necessary  to  maintain  a  nation-state.  The  military  and  political 
exigencies  of  statehood  frequently  compromised  Judaism's  tran- 
scendent moral  code.  In  the  period  before  the  Exile,  abuses  of  state 
power  set  in  rapidly  after  the  conquests  of  Joshua,  in  the  reign  of 
Solomon  in  both  the  northern  and  southern  kingdoms,  under  the 
Hasmoneans,  and  under  Herod  the  Great. 

In  the  twentieth  century,  the  Holocaust  transformed  Zionism 
from  an  ideal  to  an  urgent  necessity  for  which  the  Yishuv  and  world 
Jewry  were  willing  to  sacrifice  much.  From  that  time  on,  the  bulk 
of  world  Jewry  would  view  Jewish  survival  in  terms  of  a  Jewish 
state  in  Palestine,  a  goal  finally  achieved  by  the  creation  of  the  state 
of  Israel  in  1948.  The  Nazi  annihilation  of  6  million  Jews,  on  whose 
behalf  the  West  proved  unwilling  to  intervene,  and  the  hostility 
of  Israel's  Arab  neighbors,  some  of  which  systematically  evicted 
their  Jewish  communities,  later  combined  to  create  a  sense  of  siege 
among  many  Israelis.  As  a  result,  the  modern  State  of  Israel 
throughout  its  brief  history  has  given  security  priority  over  the  coun- 
try 's  other  needs  and  has  considerably  expanded  over  time  its  con- 
cept of  its  legitimate  security  needs.  Thus,  for  reasons  of  security 
Israel  has  justified  the  dispossession  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
Palestinian  Arabs,  the  limited  rights  granted  its  Arab  citizens,  and 
harsh  raids  against  bordering  Arab  states  that  harbored  Palestinian 
guerrillas  who  had  repeatedly  threatened  Israel. 

The  June  1967  War  was  an  important  turning  point  in  the  his- 
tory of  Israel  (see  1967  and  Afterward,  this  ch.).  The  ease  of  vic- 
tory and  the  reunification  of  Jerusalem  spurred  a  growing 
religio-nationalist  movement.  Whereas  Labor  Zionism  was  a  secular 
movement  that  sought  to  sow  the  land  within  the  Green  Line  (see 
Glossary),  the  new  Israeli  nationalists,  led  by  Gush  Emunim  and 
Rabbi  Moshe  Levinger,  called  for  Jewish  settlement  in  all  of  Eretz 
Yisrael.  The  June  1967  War  also  brought  under  Israel's  control 
the  Sinai  Peninsula,  the  Golan  Heights  (see  Glossary),  the  West 
Bank  (see  Glossary),  the  Gaza  Strip  (see  Glossary),  and  East  Jerusa- 
lem. From  the  beginning,  control  of  Jerusalem  was  a  nonnegotia- 
ble  item  for  Israel.  The  Gaza  Strip  and  especially  the  West  Bank, 
however,  posed  a  serious  demographic  problem  that  continued  to 
fester  in  the  late  1980s. 

In  contrast  to  the  euphoria  that  erupted  in  June  1967,  the  heavy 
losses  suffered  in  the  October  1973  War  ushered  in  a  period  of 
uncertainty.  Israel's  unpreparedness  in  the  early  stages  of  the  war 
discredited  the  ruling  Labor  Party,  which  also  suffered  from  a  rash 
of  corruption  charges.  Moreover,  the  demographic  growth  of  Orien- 
tal Jews  (Jews  of  African  or  Asian  origin),  a  large  number  of  whom 
felt  alienated  from  Labor's  blend  of  socialist  Zionism,  tilted  the 


5 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

electoral  balance  for  the  first  time  in  Israel's  history  away  from 
the  Labor  Party  (see  Jewish  Ethnic  Groups,  ch.  2).  In  the  May 
1977  elections  Menachem  Begin's  Likud  Bloc  unseated  Labor. 

The  early  years  of  the  Begin  era  were  dominated  by  the  historic 
peace  initiative  of  President  Anwar  as  Sadat  of  Egypt.  His  trip  to 
Jerusalem  in  November  1977  and  the  subsequent  signing  of  the 
Camp  David  Accords  and  the  Treaty  of  Peace  between  Egypt  and 
Israel  ended  hostilities  between  Israel  and  the  largest  and  militarily 
strongest  Arab  country.  The  proposed  Palestinian  autonomy  laid 
out  in  the  Camp  David  Accords  never  came  to  fruition  because 
of  a  combination  of  Begin's  limited  view  of  autonomy — he  viewed 
the  West  Bank  as  an  integral  part  of  the  State  of  Israel — and  be- 
cause of  the  refusal  of  the  other  Arab  states  and  the  Palestinians 
to  participate  in  the  peace  process.  As  a  result,  violence  in  the  oc- 
cupied territories  increased  dramatically  in  the  late  1970s  and  early 
1980s. 

Following  Likud's  victory  in  the  1981  elections,  Begin  and  his 
new  minister  of  defense,  Ariel  Sharon,  pursued  a  harder  line  toward 
the  Arabs  in  the  territories.  After  numerous  attempts  to  quell  the 
rising  tide  of  Palestinian  nationalism  failed,  Begin,  on  the  advice 
of  Sharon  and  Chief  of  Staff  General  Rafael  Eitan,  decided  to  de- 
stroy the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization  (PLO)  major  base  of 
operations  in  Lebanon.  On  June  6,  1982,  Israeli  troops  crossed 
the  border  into  Lebanon  initiating  Operation  Peace  for  Galilee. 
This  was  the  first  war  in  Israel's  history  that  lacked  wide  public 
support. 

Ancient  Israel 

The  history  of  the  evolving  relationship  between  God  and  the 
Jewish  people  set  forth  in  the  the  Hebrew  Bible — the  five  books 
of  the  Torah  (see  Glossary),  neviim  (prophets),  and  ketuvim  (writ- 
ings)— known  to  Christians  as  the  Old  Testament,  begins  with 
myths.  The  stories  of  creation,  the  temptation  and  sin  of  the  first 
humans,  their  expulsion  from  an  idyllic  sanctuary,  the  flood,  and 
other  folkloric  events  have  analogies  with  other  early  societies.  With 
the  appearance  of  Abraham,  however,  the  biblical  stories  introduce 
a  new  idea — that  of  a  single  tribal  God.  Over  the  course  of  several 
centuries,  this  notion  evolved  into  humanity's  first  complete 
monotheism.  Abraham  looms  large  in  the  traditions  of  the  Jewish 
people  and  the  foundation  of  their  religion.  Whether  Jews  by  birth 
or  by  conversion,  each  male  Jew  is  viewed  as  "a  son  of  Abraham." 

It  was  with  Abraham  that  God,  known  as  Yahweh,  made  a 
covenant,  promising  to  protect  Abraham  and  his  descendants,  to 
wage  wars  on  their  behalf,  and  to  obtain  for  them  the  land  of 


6 


Muslim  mosque  above  the  Cave  of  Machpela,  the  traditional 
burial  place  of  the  Jewish  patriarchs,  in  Hebron,  occupied  West  Bank 

Courtesy  Palestine  Perspectives 

Canaan,  an  area  roughly  approximate  to  modern  Israel  and  the 
occupied  West  Bank  (in  another  part  of  the  Torah,  God  pledges 
to  Abraham's  descendants  "the  land  from  the  river  of  Egypt  to 
the  great  river,  the  river  Euphrates,"  an  area  much  larger  than 
historic  Canaan).  In  exchange,  the  ancient  Hebrews  were  bound 
individually  and  collectively  to  follow  the  ethical  precepts  and  rituals 
laid  down  by  God. 

Canaan,  the  land  promised  to  Abraham  and  his  descendants, 
was  a  narrow  strip,  130  kilometers  wide,  bounded  by  the  Mediter- 
ranean Sea  to  the  west,  the  Arabian  Desert  to  the  east,  Egypt  to 
the  south,  and  Mesopotamia  to  the  north.  Situated  between  the 
great  Mesopotamian  and  Egyptian  cultures,  Canaan  served  as  a 
burgeoning  trading  center  for  caravans  between  the  Nile  Valley 
and  the  Euphrates  and  as  a  cultural  entrepot.  The  clash  of  cul- 
tures and  the  diverse  commercial  activities  gave  Canaan  a  dynamic 
spiritual  and  material  creativity.  Prior  to  the  emergence  of  Abra- 
ham, however,  Egyptian  and  Mesopotamian  hostility,  continuous 
invasions  of  hostile  peoples,  and  Canaan's  varied  topography  had 
resulted  in  frequent  fighting  and  general  instability. 

In  the  last  quarter  of  the  second  millennium  B.C.,  the  collapse 
of  the  Hittite  Empire  to  the  north,  and  the  decline  of  Egyptian  power 


7 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


to  the  south  at  a  time  when  the  Assyrians  had  not  yet  become  a 
major  force  set  the  stage  for  the  emergence  of  the  Hebrews.  As 
early  as  the  latter  part  of  the  third  millennium  B.C.,  invasions  from 
the  east  significantly  disrupted  Middle  Eastern  society.  The  peo- 
ple who  moved  from  Mesopotamia  to  the  Mediterranean  spoke 
western  Semitic  languages  of  which  Hebrew  is  one.  The  term  Hebrew 
apparently  came  from  the  word  habiru  (also  hapiru  or  apiru),  a  term 
that  was  common  to  the  Canaanites  and  many  of  their  neighbors. 
The  word  was  used  to  designate  a  social  class  of  wanderers  and 
seminomads  who  lived  on  the  margins  of,  and  remained  separate 
from,  sedentary  setdements.  Abraham  was  the  leader  of  one  of  these 
immigrant  habiru  groups.  He  is  depicted  as  a  wealthy  seminomad 
who  possessed  large  flocks  of  sheep,  goats,  and  cattle,  and  enough 
retainers  to  mount  small  military  expeditions. 

The  Canaanite  chieftains  urged  Abraham  to  settle  and  join  with 
them.  Abraham  remained  in  the  land,  but  when  it  came  time  to 
select  a  wife  for  his  and  Sarah's  son  Isaac,  the  wife  was  obtained 
from  their  relatives  living  in  Haran,  near  Urfa  in  modern  Turkey. 
This  endogamous  practice  was  repeated  by  Isaac's  son  Jacob,  who 
became  known  as  Israel  because  he  had  wrestled  with  God  (Gen. 
32:28). 

During  Jacob-Israel's  lifetime  the  Hebrews  completely  severed 
their  links  with  the  peoples  of  the  north  and  east  and  his  followers 
began  to  think  of  themselves  as  permanently  linked  to  Canaan. 
By  his  two  wives,  Leah  and  Rachel,  and  their  two  serving  maids, 
Bilhah  and  Zilpah,  Israel  fathered  twelve  sons,  the  progenitors  of 
the  twelve  tribes  of  Israel,  the  "children  of  Israel."  The  term  Jew 
derives  from  the  name  of  one  of  the  tribes,  Judah,  which  was  not 
only  one  of  the  largest  and  most  powerful  of  the  tribes  but  also 
the  tribe  that  produced  David  and  from  which,  according  to  bibli- 
cal prophecy  and  postbiblical  legend,  a  messiah  will  emerge. 

Some  time  late  in  the  sixteenth  or  early  in  the  fifteenth  century 
B.C.,  Jacob's  family — numbering  about  150  people — migrated  to 
Egypt  to  escape  the  drought  and  famine  in  Canaan.  Beginning  in 
the  third  millennium  B.C.  large  numbers  of  western  Semites  had 
migrated  to  Egypt,  usually  drawn  by  the  richness  of  the  Nile  Valley. 
They  came  seeking  trade,  work,  or  escape  from  hunger,  and  some- 
times they  came  as  slaves.  The  period  of  Egyptian  oppression  that 
drove  the  Israelites  to  revolt  and  escape  probably  occurred  during 
the  reign  of  Ramses  II  (1304-1237  B.C.).  Most  scholars  believe 
that  the  Exodus  itself  took  place  under  his  successor  Merneptah. 
A  victory  stela  dated  1220  B.C.  relates  a  battle  fought  with  the 
Israelites  beyond  Sinai  in  Canaan.  Taken  together  with  other 


8 


Historical  Setting 


evidence,  it  is  believed  that  the  Exodus  occurred  in  the  thirteenth 
century  B.C.  and  had  been  completed  by  about  1225  B.C. 

The  Book  of  Exodus  describes  in  detail  the  conditions  of  slavery 
of  the  Jews  in  Egypt  and  their  escape  from  bondage.  The  Exodus 
episode  is  a  pivotal  event  in  Jewish  history.  The  liberation  of  a  slave 
people  from  a  powerful  pharaoh — the  first  such  successful  revolt 
in  recorded  antiquity — through  divine  intervention  tied  successive 
generations  of  Hebrews  (Jews)  to  Yahweh.  The  scale  of  the  revolt 
and  the  subsequent  sojourn  in  Sinai  created  a  self- awareness  among 
the  Hebrews  that  they  were  a  separate  people  sharing  a  common 
destiny.  Moreover,  the  giving  of  the  Law  to  Moses  at  Mount  Sinai 
set  down  a  moral  framework  that  has  guided  the  Jewish  people 
throughout  their  history.  The  Mosaic  Code,  which  includes  the 
Ten  Commandments  and  a  wide  body  of  other  laws  derived  from 
the  Torah,  not  only  proclaimed  the  unity  of  God  but  also  set  forth 
the  revolutionary  idea  that  all  men,  because  they  were  created  in 
God's  image,  were  equal.  Thus,  the  Hebrews  believed  that  they 
were  to  be  a  people  guided  by  a  moral  order  that  transcended  the 
temporal  power  and  wealth  of  the  day. 

The  conquest  of  Canaan  under  the  generalship  of  Joshua  took 
place  over  several  decades.  The  biblical  account  depicts  a  primi- 
tive, outnumbered  confederation  of  tribes  slowly  conquering  pieces 
of  territory  from  a  sedentary,  relatively  advanced  people  who  lived 
in  walled  cities  and  towns.  For  a  long  time  the  various  tribes  of 
Israel  controlled  the  higher,  less  desirable  lands,  and  only  with  the 
advent  of  David  did  the  kingdoms  of  Israel  and  Judah  come  into 
being  with  a  capital  in  Jerusalem. 

Prior  to  the  emergence  of  David,  the  Hebrew  tribes,  as  portrayed 
in  the  last  three  chapters  of  the  Book  of  Judges,  were  fighting  among 
themselves  when  the  Philistines  (whence  the  term  Palestine)  appeared 
on  the  coast  and  pushed  eastward.  The  Philistines  were  a  warlike 
people  possessing  iron  weapons  and  organized  with  great  discipline 
under  a  feudal-military  aristocracy.  Around  1050  B.C.,  having  ex- 
terminated the  coastal  Canaanites,  they  began  a  large-scale  move- 
ment against  the  interior  hill  country,  now  mainly  occupied  by  the 
Israelites.  To  unify  the  people  in  the  face  of  the  Philistine  threat, 
the  prophet  Samuel  anointed  the  guerrilla  captain  Saul  as  the  first 
king  of  the  Israelites.  Only  one  year  after  his  coronation,  however, 
the  Philistines  destroyed  the  new  royal  army  at  Mount  Gilboa,  near 
Bet  Shean,  southeast  of  the  Plain  of  Yizreel  (also  known  as  the  Plain 
of  Jezreel  and  the  Plain  of  Esdraelon),  killing  Saul  and  his  son 
Jonathan. 

Facing  imminent  peril,  the  leadership  of  the  Israelites  passed  to 
David,  a  shepherd  turned  mercenary  who  had  served  Saul  but  also 


9 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

trained  under  the  Philistines.  Although  David  was  destined  to  be 
the  most  successful  king  in  Jewish  history,  his  kingdom  initially 
was  not  a  unified  nation  but  two  separate  national  entities,  each 
of  which  had  a  separate  contract  with  him  personally.  King  David, 
a  military  and  political  genius,  successfully  united  the  north  and 
south  under  his  rule,  soundly  defeated  the  Philistines,  and  expanded 
the  borders  of  his  kingdom,  conquering  Ammon,  Moab,  Edom, 
Zobah  (also  seen  as  Aram-Zobah),  and  even  Damascus  (also  seen 
as  Aram-Damascus)  in  the  far  northeast  (see  fig.  2).  His  success 
was  caused  by  many  factors:  the  establishment  of  a  powerful  profes- 
sional army  that  quelled  tribal  unrest,  a  regional  power  vacuum 
(Egyptian  power  was  on  the  wane  and  Assyria  and  Babylon  to  the 
east  had  not  yet  matured),  his  control  over  the  great  regional  trade 
routes,  and  his  establishment  of  economic  and  cultural  contacts 
with  the  rich  Phoenician  city  of  Tyre.  Of  major  significance,  David 
conquered  from  the  Jebusites  the  city  of  Jerusalem,  which  controlled 
the  main  interior  north-south  route.  He  then  brought  the  Ark  of 
the  Covenant,  the  most  holy  relic  the  Israelites  possessed  and  the 
symbol  of  their  unity,  into  the  newly  constituted  "City  of  David," 
which  would  serve  as  the  center  of  his  united  kingdom. 

Despite  reigning  over  an  impressive  kingdom,  David  was  not 
an  absolute  monarch  in  the  manner  of  other  rulers  of  his  day.  He 
believed  that  ultimate  authority  rested  not  with  any  king  but  with 
God.  Throughout  his  thirty- three-year  reign,  he  never  built  a  gran- 
diose temple  associated  with  his  royal  line,  thus  avoiding  the  crea- 
tion of  a  royal  temple-state.  His  successor  and  son  Solomon, 
however,  was  of  a  different  ilk.  He  was  less  attached  to  the  spiri- 
tual aspects  of  Judaism  and  more  interested  in  creating  sumptuous 
palaces  and  monuments.  To  carry  out  his  large-scale  construction 
projects,  Solomon  introduced  corvees,  or  forced  labor;  these  were 
applied  to  Canaanite  areas  and  to  the  northern  part  of  the  king- 
dom but  not  to  Judah  in  the  south.  He  also  imposed  a  burden- 
some tax  system.  Finally,  and  most  egregious  to  the  northern  tribes 
of  Israel,  Solomon  ensured  that  the  Temple  in  Jerusalem  and  its 
priestly  caste,  both  of  which  were  under  his  authority,  established 
religious  belief  and  practice  for  the  entire  nation.  Thus,  Solomon 
moved  away  from  the  austere  spirituality  founded  by  Moses  in  the 
desert  toward  the  pagan  cultures  of  the  Mediterranean  Coast  and 
Nile  Valley. 

When  Solomon  died  in  925  or  926  B.C.,  the  northerners  refused 
to  recognize  his  successor  Rehoboam.  Subsequentiy  the  north  broke 
away  and  was  ruled  by  the  House  of  Omri.  The  northern  king- 
dom of  Israel,  more  populous  than  the  south,  possessing  more  fer- 
tile land  and  closer  to  the  trading  centers  of  the  time,  flourished 


10 


Historical  Setting 


until  it  was  completely  destroyed  and  its  ten  tribes  sent  into  per- 
manent exile  by  the  Assyrians  between  740  and  721  B.C.  The  de- 
struction of  the  north  had  a  sobering  effect  on  the  south.  The 
prophet  Isaiah  eloquently  proclaimed  that  rather  than  power  and 
wealth,  social  justice  and  adherence  to  the  will  of  God  should  be 
the  focus  of  the  Israelites. 

At  the  end  of  the  sixth  century  B.C.,  the  Assyrian  Empire  col- 
lapsed and  the  Babylonians  under  Nebuchadnezzar  besieged  the 
city  of  Jerusalem,  captured  the  king,  and  ended  the  first  common- 
wealth. Even  before  the  first  Exile,  the  prophet  Jeremiah  had  stated 
that  the  Israelites  did  not  need  a  state  to  carry  out  the  mission  given 
to  them  by  God.  After  the  Exile,  Ezekiel  voiced  a  similar  belief: 
what  mattered  was  not  states  and  empires,  for  they  would  perish 
through  God's  power,  but  man. 

From  the  time  of  the  destruction  of  the  First  Temple  in  586  B.C. , 
the  majority  of  Jews  have  lived  outside  the  Holy  Land.  Lacking 
a  state  and  scattered  among  the  peoples  of  the  Near  East,  the  Jews 
needed  to  find  alternative  methods  to  preserve  their  special  iden- 
tity. They  turned  to  the  laws  and  rituals  of  their  faith,  which  be- 
came unifying  elements  holding  the  community  together.  Thus, 
circumcision,  sabbath  observance,  festivals,  dietary  laws,  and  laws 
of  cleanliness  became  especially  important. 

In  the  middle  of  the  sixth  century  B.C.,  the  Persian  emperor 
Cyrus  the  Great  defeated  the  Babylonians  and  permitted  the  Jews 
to  return  to  their  homeland  "to  rebuild  the  house  of  the  Lord." 
The  majority  of  Jews,  however,  preferred  to  remain  in  the  Diaspora, 
especially  in  Babylon,  which  would  become  a  great  center  of  Jewish 
culture  for  1,500  years.  During  this  period  Ezra,  the  great  codi- 
fier  of  the  laws,  compiled  the  Torah  from  the  vast  literature  of  his- 
tory, politics,  and  religion  that  the  Jews  had  accumulated.  The 
written  record  depicting  the  relationship  between  God  and  the 
Jewish  people  contained  in  the  Torah  became  the  focal  point  of 
Judaism. 

Hellenism  and  the  Roman  Conquest 

In  332  B.C. ,  Alexander  the  Great  of  Macedon  destroyed  the  Per- 
sian Empire  but  largely  ignored  Judah.  After  Alexander's  death, 
his  generals  divided — and  subsequently  fought  over — his  empire. 
In  301  B.C.,  Ptolemy  I  took  direct  control  of  the  Jewish  homeland, 
but  he  made  no  serious  effort  to  interfere  in  its  religious  affairs. 
Ptolemy's  successors  were  in  turn  supplanted  by  the  Seleucids,  and 
in  175  B.C.  Antiochus  IV  seized  power.  He  launched  a  campaign 
to  crush  Judaism,  and  in  167  B.C.  he  sacked  the  Temple. 


11 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Historical  Setting 


The  violation  of  the  Second  Temple,  which  had  been  built  about 
520-515  B.C.,  provoked  a  successful  Jewish  rebellion  under  the 
generalship  of  Judas  (Judah)  Maccabaeus.  In  140  B.C.  the  Has- 
monean  Dynasty  began  under  the  leadership  of  Simon  Maccabaeus, 
who  served  as  ruler,  high  priest,  and  commander  in  chief.  Simon, 
who  was  assassinated  a  few  years  later,  formalized  what  Judas  had 
begun,  the  establishment  of  a  theocracy,  something  not  found  in 
any  biblical  text. 

Despite  priestly  rule,  Jewish  society  became  Hellenized  except 
in  its  generally  staunch  adherence  to  monotheism.  Although  rural 
life  was  relatively  unchanged,  cities  such  as  Jerusalem  rapidly 
adopted  the  Greek  language,  sponsored  games  and  sports,  and  in 
more  subtie  ways  adopted  and  absorbed  the  culture  of  the  Hellenes. 
Even  the  high  priests  bore  such  names  as  Jason  and  Menelaus. 
Biblical  scholars  have  identified  extensive  Greek  influence  in  the 
drafting  of  commentaries  and  interpolations  of  ancient  texts  dur- 
ing and  after  the  Greek  period.  The  most  obvious  influence  of  the 
Hellenistic  period  can  be  discerned  in  the  early  literature  of  the 
new  faith,  Christianity. 

Under  the  Hasmonean  Dynasty,  Judah  became  comparable  in 
extent  and  power  to  the  ancient  Davidic  dominion.  Internal  polit- 
ical and  religious  discord  ran  high,  however,  especially  between 
the  Pharisees,  who  interpreted  the  written  law  by  adding  a  wealth 
of  oral  law,  and  the  Sadducees,  an  aristocratic  priestly  class  who 
called  for  strict  adherence  to  the  written  law.  In  64  B.C.,  dynastic 
contenders  for  the  throne  appealed  for  support  to  Pompey,  who 
was  then  establishing  Roman  power  in  Asia.  The  next  year  Roman 
legions  seized  Jerusalem,  and  Pompey  installed  one  of  the  con- 
tenders for  the  throne  as  high  priest,  but  without  the  title  of  king. 
Eighty  years  of  independent  Jewish  sovereignty  ended,  and  the 
period  of  Roman  dominion  began. 

In  the  subsequent  period  of  Roman  wars,  Herod  was  confirmed 
by  the  Roman  Senate  as  king  of  Judah  in  37  B.C.  and  reigned 
until  his  death  in  4  B.C.  Nominally  independent,  Judah  was  actu- 
ally in  bondage  to  Rome,  and  the  land  was  formally  annexed  in 
6  B.C.  as  part  of  the  province  of  Syria  Palestina.  Rome  did, 
however,  grant  the  Jews  religious  autonomy  and  some  judicial  and 
legislative  rights  through  the  Sanhedrin.  The  Sanhedrin,  which 
traces  its  origins  to  a  council  of  elders  established  under  Persian 
rule  (333  B.C.  to  165  B.C.)  was  the  highest  Jewish  legal  and 
religious  body  under  Rome.  The  Great  Sanhedrin,  located  on  the 
Temple  Mount  in  Jerusalem,  supervised  smaller  local  Sanhedrins 
and  was  the  final  authority  on  many  important  religious,  politi- 
cal, and  legal  issues,  such  as  declaring  war,  trying  a  high  priest, 


13 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

and  supervising  certain  rituals.  Scholars  have  sharply  debated  the 
structure  and  composition  of  the  Sanhedrin.  The  Jewish  historian 
Josephus  and  the  New  Testament  present  the  Sanhedrin  as  a 
political  and  judicial  council  whereas  the  Talmud  (see  Glossary) 
describes  it  as  a  religious,  legislative  body  headed  by  a  court  of 
seventy-one  sages.  Another  view  holds  that  there  were  two  separate 
Sanhedrins.  The  political  Sanhedrin  was  composed  primarily  of 
the  priestly  Sadducee  aristocracy  and  was  charged  by  the  Roman 
procurator  with  responsibility  for  civil  order,  specifically  in  mat- 
ters involving  imperial  directives.  The  religious  Sanhedrin  of  the 
Pharisees  was  concerned  with  religious  law  and  doctrine,  which 
the  Romans  disregarded  as  long  as  civil  order  was  not  threatened. 
Foremost  among  the  Pharisee  leaders  of  the  time  were  the  noted 
teachers,  Hillel  and  Shammai. 

Chafing  under  foreign  rule,  a  Jewish  nationalist  movement  of 
the  fanatical  sect  known  as  the  Zealots  challenged  Roman  control 
in  A.D.  66.  After  a  protracted  siege  begun  by  Vespasian,  the 
Roman  commander  in  Judah,  but  completed  under  his  son  Titus 
in  A.D.  70,  Jerusalem  and  the  Second  Temple  were  seized  and 
destroyed  by  the  Roman  legions.  The  last  Zealot  survivors  perished 
in  A.D.  73  at  the  mountain  fortress  of  Massada,  about  fifty-six 
kilometers  southwest  of  Jerusalem  above  the  western  shore  of  the 
Dead  Sea. 

During  the  siege  of  Jerusalem,  Rabbi  Yohanan  Ben-Zakki 
received  Vespasian's  permission  to  withdraw  to  the  town  of  Yibna 
(also  seen  as  Jabneh)  on  the  coastal  plain,  about  twenty-four  kilo- 
meters southwest  of  present-day  Tel  Aviv.  There  an  academic  center 
or  academy  was  set  up  and  became  the  central  religious  authority; 
its  jurisdiction  was  recognized  by  Jews  in  Palestine  and  beyond. 
Roman  rule,  nevertheless,  continued.  Emperor  Hadrian  (A.D. 
117-38)  endeavored  to  establish  cultural  uniformity  and  issued 
several  repressive  edicts,  including  one  against  circumcision. 

The  edicts  sparked  the  Bar-Kochba  Rebellion  of  132-35,  which 
was  crushed  by  the  Romans.  Hadrian  then  closed  the  Academy 
at  Yibna,  and  prohibited  both  the  study  of  the  Torah  and  the  ob- 
servance of  the  Jewish  way  of  life  derived  from  it.  Judah  was  in- 
cluded in  Syria  Palestina,  Jerusalem  was  renamed  Aelia  Capitolina, 
and  Jews  were  forbidden  to  come  within  sight  of  the  city.  Once 
a  year  on  the  anniversary  of  the  destruction  of  the  Temple,  con- 
trolled entry  was  permitted,  allowing  Jews  to  mourn  at  a  remain- 
ing fragment  on  the  Temple  site,  the  Western  Wall,  which  became 
known  as  the  Wailing  Wall.  The  Diaspora,  which  had  begun  with 
the  Babylonian  captivity  in  the  sixth  century  B.C., and  which  had 
resumed  early  in  the  Hellenistic  period,  now  involved  most  Jews 


14 


Historical  Setting 


in  an  exodus  from  what  they  continued  to  view  as  the  land  promised 
to  them  as  the  descendants  of  Abraham. 

Following  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  in  70  A.D.,  and  espe- 
cially after  the  suppression  of  the  Bar-Kochba  Rebellion  in  135 
A.D.,  religio-nationalist  aspects  of  Judaism  were  supplanted  by  a 
growing  intellectual- spiritual  trend.  Lacking  a  state,  the  survival 
of  the  Jewish  people  was  dependent  on  study  and  observance  of 
the  written  law,  the  Torah.  To  maintain  the  integrity  and  cohe- 
siveness  of  the  community,  the  Torah  was  enlarged  into  a  coher- 
ent system  of  moral  theology  and  community  law.  The  rabbi  and 
the  synagogue  became  the  normative  institutions  of  Judaism,  which 
thereafter  was  essentially  a  congregationalist  faith. 

The  focus  on  study  led  to  the  compilation  of  the  Talmud,  an 
immense  commentary  on  the  Torah  that  thoroughly  analyzed  the 
application  of  Jewish  law  to  the  day-to-day  life  of  the  Jewish  com- 
munity. The  complexity  of  argument  and  analysis  contained  in  the 
Palestinian  Talmud  (100-425  A.D.)  and  the  more  authoritative 
Babylonian  Talmud  (completed  around  500)  reflected  the  high  level 
of  intellectual  maturity  attained  by  the  various  schools  of  Jewish 
learning.  This  inward-looking  intellectualism,  along  with  a  rigid 
adherence  to  the  laws  and  rituals  of  Judaism,  maintained  the 
separateness  of  the  Jewish  people,  enabling  them  to  survive  the 
exilic  experience  despite  the  lure  of  conversion  and  frequent  out- 
breaks of  anti-Semitism. 

Palestine  Between  the  Romans  and  Modern  Times 

As  a  geographic  unit,  Palestine  extended  from  the  Mediterra- 
nean on  the  west  to  the  Arabian  Desert  on  the  east  and  from  the 
lower  Litani  River  in  the  north  to  the  Gaza  Valley  in  the  south. 
It  was  named  after  the  Philistines,  who  occupied  the  southern  coastal 
region  in  the  twelfth  century  B.C.  The  name  Philistia  was  used 
in  the  second  century  A.D.  to  designate  Syria  Palestina,  which 
formed  the  southern  third  of  the  Roman  province  of  Syria. 

Emperor  Constantine  (ca.  280-337)  shifted  his  capital  from  Rome 
to  Constantinople  in  330  and  made  Christianity  the  official  religion. 
With  Constantine's  conversion  to  Christianity,  a  new  era  of 
prosperity  came  to  Palestine,  which  attracted  a  flood  of  pilgrims 
from  all  over  the  empire.  Upon  partition  of  the  Roman  Empire 
in  395,  Palestine  passed  under  eastern  control.  The  scholarly  Jew- 
ish communities  in  Galilee  continued  with  varying  fortunes  under 
Byzantine  rule  and  dominant  Christian  influence  until  the  Arab- 
Muslim  conquest  of  A.D.  638.  The  period  included,  however, 
strong  Jewish  support  of  the  briefly  successful  Persian  invasion  of 
610-14. 


15 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

The  Arab  caliph,  Umar,  designated  Jerusalem  as  the  third  holiest 
place  in  Islam,  second  only  to  Mecca  and  Medina.  Under  the 
Umayyads,  based  in  Damascus,  the  Dome  of  the  Rock  was  erected 
in  691  on  the  site  of  the  Temple  of  Solomon,  which  was  also  the 
alleged  nocturnal  resting  place  of  the  Prophet  Muhammad  on  his 
journey  to  heaven.  It  is  the  earliest  Muslim  monument  still  extant. 
Close  to  the  shrine,  to  the  south,  the  Al  Aqsa  Mosque  was  built. 
The  Umayyad  caliph,  Umar  II  (717-720),  imposed  humiliating 
restrictions  on  his  non-Muslim  subjects  that  led  many  to  convert 
to  Islam.  These  conversions,  in  addition  to  a  steady  tribal  flow  from 
the  desert,  changed  the  religious  character  of  the  inhabitants  of 
Palestine  from  Christian  to  Muslim.  Under  the  Abbasids  the  process 
of  Islamization  gained  added  momentum  as  a  result  of  further 
restrictions  imposed  on  non-Muslims  by  Harun  ar  Rashid  (786- 
809)  and  more  particularly  by  Al  Mutawakkil  (847-61). 

The  Abbasids  were  followed  by  the  Fatimids  who  faced  frequent 
attacks  from  Qarmatians,  Seljuks,  and  Byzantines,  and  periodic 
beduin  opposition.  Palestine  was  reduced  to  a  battlefield.  In  1071 
the  Seljuks  captured  Jerusalem.  The  Fatimids  recaptured  the  city 
in  1098,  only  to  deliver  it  a  year  later  to  a  new  enemy,  the  Crusaders 
of  Western  Europe.  In  1100  the  Crusaders  established  the  Latin 
Kingdom  of  Jerusalem,  which  remained  until  the  famous  Muslim 
general  Salah  ad  Din  (Saladin)  defeated  them  at  the  decisive  Bat- 
tle of  Hattin  in  1 187.  The  Crusaders  were  not  completely  evicted 
from  Palestine,  however,  until  1291  when  they  were  driven  out 
of  Acre.  The  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  centuries  were  a  "dark  age" 
for  Palestine  as  a  result  of  Mamluk  misrule  and  the  spread  of  several 
epidemics.  The  Mamluks  were  slave-soldiers  who  established  a 
dynasty  that  ruled  Egypt  and  Syria,  which  included  Palestine,  from 
1250  to  1516. 

In  1516  the  Ottoman  Turks,  led  by  Sultan  Selim  I,  routed  the 
Mamluks,  and  Palestine  began  four  centuries  under  Ottoman  domi- 
nation. Under  the  Ottomans,  Palestine  continued  to  be  linked 
administratively  to  Damascus  until  1830,  when  it  was  placed  under 
Sidon,  then  under  Acre,  then  once  again  under  Damascus.  In  1887- 
88  the  local  governmental  units  of  the  Ottoman  Empire  were  finally 
settled,  and  Palestine  was  divided  into  the  administrative  divisions 
(sing.,  mutasarrifiyah)  of  Nabulus  and  Acre,  both  of  which  were 
linked  with  the  vilayet  (largest  Ottoman  administrative  division,  simi- 
lar to  a  province)  of  Beirut  and  the  autonomous  mutasarrifiyah  of 
Jerusalem,  which  dealt  directly  with  Constantinople. 

For  the  first  three  centuries  of  Ottoman  rule,  Palestine  was  rela- 
tively insulated  from  outside  influences.  At  the  end  of  the  eigh- 
teenth century,  Napoleon's  abortive  attempt  to  establish  a  Middle 


16 


Historical  Setting 


East  empire  led  to  increased  Western  involvement  in  Palestine.  The 
trend  toward  Western  influence  accelerated  during  the  nine  years 
(1831  -40)  that  the  Egyptian  viceroy  Muhammad  Ali  and  his  son 
Ibrahim  ruled  Palestine.  The  Ottomans  returned  to  power  in  1840 
with  the  help  of  the  British,  Austrians,  and  Russians.  For  the  re- 
mainder of  the  nineteenth  century,  Palestine,  despite  the  growth 
of  Christian  missionary  schools  and  the  establishment  of  European 
consulates,  remained  a  mainly  rural,  poor  but  self-sufficient,  intro- 
verted society.  Demographically  its  population  was  overwhelmingly 
Arab,  mainly  Muslim,  but  with  an  important  Christian  merchant 
and  professional  class  residing  in  the  cities.  The  Jewish  popula- 
tion of  Palestine  before  1880  consisted  of  fewer  than  25,000  peo- 
ple, two-thirds  of  whom  lived  in  Jerusalem  where  they  made  up 
half  the  population  (and  from  1 890  on  more  than  half  the  popula- 
tion). These  were  Orthodox  Jews  (see  Glossary),  many  of  whom 
had  immigrated  to  Palestine  simply  to  be  buried  in  the  Holy  Land, 
and  who  had  no  real  political  interest  in  establishing  a  Jewish  entity. 
They  were  supported  by  alms  given  by  world  Jewry. 

Origins  of  Zionism 

The  major  event  that  led  to  the  growth  of  the  Zionist  movement 
was  the  emancipation  of  Jews  in  France  (1791),  followed  shortly 
thereafter  by  their  emancipation  in  the  rest  of  continental  and  Cen- 
tral Europe.  After  having  lived  for  centuries  in  the  confines  of  Jewish 
ghettos,  Jews  living  in  Western  and  Central  Europe  now  had  a 
powerful  incentive  to  enter  mainstream  European  society.  Jews, 
who  had  previously  been  confined  to  petty  trade  and  to  banking, 
rapidly  rose  in  academia,  medicine,  the  arts,  journalism,  and  other 
professions.  The  accelerated  assimilation  of  Jews  into  European 
society  radically  altered  the  nature  of  relations  between  Jews  and 
non-Jews.  On  the  one  hand,  Jews  had  to  reconcile  traditional  Juda- 
ism, which  for  nearly  2,000  years  prior  to  emancipation  had  devel- 
oped structures  designed  to  maintain  the  integrity  and  separateness 
of  Jewish  community  life,  with  a  powerful  secular  culture  in  which 
they  were  now  able  to  participate.  On  the  other  hand,  many  non- 
Jews,  who  prior  to  the  emancipation  had  had  little  or  no  contact 
with  Jews,  increasingly  saw  the  Jew  as  an  economic  threat.  The 
rapid  success  of  many  Jews  fueled  this  resentment. 

The  rise  of  ethnically  based  nationalism  in  the  mid-nineteenth 
century  gave  birth  to  yet  another  form  of  anti-Semitism.  Before 
the  mid-nineteenth  century,  European  anti-Semitism  was  based 
mainly  on  Christian  antipathies  toward  Jews  because  of  their  refusal 
to  convert  to  Christianity.  As  a  result,  an  individual  Jew  could 
usually  avoid  persecution  by  converting,  as  many  did  over  the 


17 


18 


Temple  Mount  in  Jerusalem  with  the  Dome  of  the  Rock, 
a  Muslim  holy  place,  as  seen  from  Mount  Scopus 

Courtesy  Les  Vogel 


19 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

centuries.  The  emergence  of  ethnically  based  nationalism,  however, 
radically  changed  the  status  of  the  Jew  in  European  society.  The 
majority  gentile  population  saw  Jews  as  a  separate  people  who  could 
never  be  full  participants  in  the  nation's  history. 

The  vast  majority  of  Jews  in  Western  and  Central  Europe 
responded  by  seeking  even  deeper  assimilation  into  European  cul- 
ture and  a  secularization  of  Judaism.  A  minority,  who  believed 
that  greater  assimilation  would  not  alter  the  hostility  of  non-Jews, 
adopted  Zionism.  According  to  this  view,  the  Jew  would  remain 
an  outsider  in  European  society  regardless  of  the  liberalism  of  the 
age  because  Jews  lacked  a  state  of  their  own.  Jewish  statelessness, 
then,  was  the  root  cause  of  anti-Semitism.  The  Zionists  sought  to 
solve  the  Jewish  problem  by  creating  a  Jewish  entity  outside  Europe 
but  modeled  after  the  European  nation-state.  After  more  then  half 
a  century  of  emancipation,  West  European  Jewry  had  become  dis- 
tanced from  both  the  ritual  and  culture  of  traditional  Judaism. 
Thus,  Zionism  in  its  West  European  Jewish  context  envisioned  a 
purely  political  solution  to  the  Jewish  problem:  a  state  of  Jews  rather 
than  a  Jewish  state. 

For  the  bulk  of  European  Jewry,  however,  who  resided  in  Eastern 
Europe's  Pale  of  Settlement  (see  Glossary) — on  the  western  fringe 
of  the  Russian  Empire,  between  the  Baltic  and  the  Black  seas — 
there  was  no  emancipation.  East  European  Jewry  had  lived  for  cen- 
turies in  kehilot  (sing.,  kehilah),  semiautonomous  Jewish  municipal 
corporations  that  were  supported  by  wealthy  Jews.  Life  in  the  kehilot 
was  governed  by  a  powerful  caste  of  learned  religious  scholars  who 
strictly  enforced  adherence  to  the  Jewish  legal  code.  Many  Jews 
found  the  parochial  conformity  enforced  by  the  kehilot  leadership 
onerous.  As  a  result,  liberal  stirring  unleashed  by  the  emancipa- 
tion in  the  West  had  an  unsettling  effect  upon  the  kehilot  in  the  East. 

By  the  early  nineteenth  century,  not  only  was  kehilot  life  resented 
but  the  tsarist  regimes  were  becoming  increasingly  absolute.  In  1825 
Tsar  Nicholas  I,  attempting  to  centralize  control  of  the  empire  and 
Russify  its  peoples,  enacted  oppressive  measures  against  the  Jews; 
he  drafted  a  large  number  of  under-age  Jews  for  military  service, 
forced  Jews  out  of  their  traditional  occupations,  such  as  the  liquor 
trade,  and  generally  repressed  the  kehilot.  Facing  severe  economic 
hardship  and  social  upheaval,  tens  of  thousands  of  Jews  migrated 
to  the  cities,  especially  Odessa  on  the  Russian  coast.  In  their  new 
urban  environments,  the  restless  and  highly  literate  Jews  clamored 
for  the  liberalization  of  tsarist  rule. 

In  1855  the  prospects  for  Russian  Jewry  appeared  to  improve 
significantly  when  the  relatively  liberal-minded  Tsar  Alexander  II 
ascended  the  throne.  Alexander  II  ended  the  practice  of  drafting 


20 


Historical  Setting 


Jewish  youth  into  the  military  and  granted  Jews  access,  albeit  lim- 
ited, to  Russian  education  institutions  and  various  professions  previ- 
ously closed  to  them.  Consequently,  a  thriving  class  of  Jewish 
intellectuals,  the  maskalim  (enlightened),  emerged  in  cities  like 
Odessa,  just  as  they  had  in  Western  Europe  and  Central  Europe 
after  emancipation.  The  maskalim  believed  that  Tsar  Alexander  II 
was  ushering  in  a  new  age  of  Russian  liberalism  which,  as  in  the 
West,  would  eventually  lead  to  the  emancipation  of  Russian  Jewry. 

The  hopes  of  the  maskalim  and  of  Russian  Jewry  in  general, 
however,  were  misplaced.  Alexander  II  was  assassinated  in  1881, 
and  a  severe  pogrom  ensued  that  devastated  Jewish  communities 
throughout  the  Pale  of  Settlement.  The  new  Tsar,  Alexander  III, 
enacted  oppressive  policies  against  the  Jews  and  denied  police  pro- 
tection to  those  Jews  who  remained  in  the  countryside.  As  a  result, 
a  floodtide  of  impoverished  Jews  entered  the  cities  where  they  joined 
various  movements  that  sought  to  overthrow  the  tsar. 

The  openly  anti-Semitic  policies  pursued  by  the  new  tsar  and 
the  popularity  of  these  policies  among  large  segments  of  the  non- 
Jewish  population  posed  serious  political,  economic,  and  spiritual 
dilemmas  for  Russian  Jewry.  On  the  economic  level,  the  tsar's 
anti-Semitic  policies  severely  limited  Jewish  economic  opportuni- 
ties and  undermined  the  livelihood  of  the  Jewish  masses.  Many 
impoverished  East  European  Jews,  therefore,  emigrated  from  the 
Russian  Empire.  Between  1881  and  1914,  an  estimated  2.5  mil- 
lion Jews  left  the  empire,  2  million  of  whom  settled  in  the  United 
States. 

For  many  Jews,  especially  the  maskalim,  however,  the  pogroms 
and  the  anti-Semitism  of  the  new  tsar  not  only  meant  economic 
hardship  and  physical  suffering  but  also  a  deep  spiritual  malaise . 
Before  1881,  they  had  been  abandoning  the  strict  confines  of  the 
kehilot  en  masse  and  rebelling  against  religious  orthodoxy,  anxiously 
waiting  for  the  expected  emancipation  to  reach  Russia.  The  1881 
pogroms  and  their  aftermath  shattered  not  only  the  faith  of  the 
maskalim  in  the  inevitable  liberalization  of  tsarist  Russia  but  also 
their  belief  that  the  non-Jewish  Russian  intellectual  would  take  an 
active  role  in  opposing  anti-Semitism.  Most  of  the  Russian  intel- 
ligentsia were  either  silent  during  the  pogroms  or  actually  supported 
them.  Having  lost  their  faith  in  God  and  in  the  inevitable  spread 
of  liberalism,  large  numbers  of  Russian  Jews  were  forced  to  seek 
new  solutions.  Many  flocked  to  the  revolutionary  socialist  and  com- 
munist movements  opposing  the  tsar,  while  others  became  involved 
with  the  Bund  (see  Glossary),  a  cultural  society  that  sought  to 
establish  a  Yiddish  (see  Glossary)  cultural  renaissance  within  Russia. 


21 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

A  smaller  but  growing  number  of  Jews  were  attracted  to  the 
ancient  but  newly  formulated  notion  of  reconstituting  a  Jewish 
nation- state  in  Palestine.  Zionism  as  it  evolved  in  Eastern  Europe, 
unlike  Zionism  in  the  West,  dealt  not  only  with  the  plight  of  Jews 
but  with  the  crisis  of  Judaism.  Thus,  despite  its  secularism,  East 
European  Zionism  remained  attached  to  the  Jewish  biblical  home 
in  Palestine.  It  also  was  imbued  with  the  radical  socialist  fervor 
challenging  the  tsarist  regime. 

Zionism's  reformulation  of  traditional  Judaism  was  deeply  re- 
sented by  Orthodox  Jews,  especially  the  Hasidim  (sing.,  Hasid — see 
Glossary).  Most  Orthodox  Jews  rejected  the  notion  of  a  return  to 
the  promised  land  before  the  appearance  of  the  Messiah.  They 
viewed  Zionism  as  a  secular  European  creation  that  aspired  to 
change  the  focus  of  Judaism  from  devotion  to  Jewish  law  and  reli- 
gious ritual  to  the  establishment  of  a  Jewish  nation-state. 

Zionist  Precursors 

The  impulse  and  development  of  Zionism  was  almost  exclusively 
the  work  of  Ashkenazim — Jews  of  European  origin;  few  Sephardim 
(see  Glossary)  were  directly  engaged  in  the  movement  in  its  for- 
mative years.  (In  1900  about  9.5  million  of  the  world's  10.5  mil- 
lion Jews  were  Ashkenazim,  and  about  5.2  million  of  the 
Ashkenazim  lived  in  the  Pale  of  Settlement.) 

The  first  writings  in  what  later  came  to  be  known  as  Zionism 
appeared  in  the  mid- 1800s.  In  1840  the  Jews  of  Eastern  Europe 
and  the  Balkans  had  been  aroused  by  rumors  that  the  messianic 
era  was  at  hand.  Various  writers,  most  prominently  Rabbi  Judah 
Alkalai  and  Rabbi  Zevi  Hirsch  Kalisher  but  including  many  others, 
were  impressed  by  the  nationalist  fervor  of  Europe  that  was  creat- 
ing new  nation-states  and  by  the  resurgence  of  messianic  expecta- 
tions among  Jews.  Kalisher  wrote  that  Jewish  nationalism  was 
directly  akin  to  other  nationalist  movements  and  was  the  logical 
continuation  of  the  Jewish  enlightenment  that  had  begun  in  France 
in  1791  when  Jews  were  granted  civil  liberties.  Alkalai  consciously 
altered  his  expectations  from  a  miraculous  messianic  salvation  to 
a  redemption  by  human  effort  that  would  pave  the  way  for  the 
arrival  of  the  Messiah.  Both  authors  urged  the  development  of  Jew- 
ish national  unity,  and  Kalisher  in  particular  foresaw  the  ingathering 
to  Palestine  of  many  of  the  world's  Jews  as  part  of  the  process  of 
emancipation. 

Another  important  early  Zionist  was  Moses  Hess,  a  German  Jew 
and  socialist  comrade  of  Karl  Marx.  In  his  book  Rome  and  Jerusa- 
lem, published  in  1862,  Hess  called  for  the  establishment  of  a  Jew- 
ish socialist  commonwealth  in  Palestine.  He  was  one  of  the  first 


22 


Desert  west  of  the  Dead  Sea  in  the  occupied  West  Bank 

Courtesy  Les  Vogel 
The  Jordan  River  in  northern  Israel,  east  of  Bet  Shean 

Courtesy  Les  Vogel 


23 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Jewish  thinkers  to  see  that  emancipation  would  ultimately  exacer- 
bate anti-Semitism  in  Europe.  He  concluded  that  the  only  solu- 
tion to  the  Jewish  problem  was  the  establishment  of  a  national 
Jewish  society  managed  by  a  Jewish  proletariat.  Although  his  syn- 
thesis of  socialism  and  Jewish  nationalism  would  later  become  an 
integral  part  of  the  Labor  Zionist  movement,  during  his  lifetime 
the  prosperity  of  European  Jewry  lessened  the  appeal  of  his  work. 

Political  Zionism 

Political  Zionism  was  emancipated  West  European  Jewry's 
response  to  the  pervasiveness  of  anti-Semitism  and  to  the  failure 
of  the  enlightenment  to  alter  the  status  of  the  Jew.  Its  objective 
was  the  establishment  of  a  Jewish  homeland  in  any  available 
territory — not  necessarily  in  Palestine — through  cooperation  with 
the  Great  Powers.  Political  Zionists  viewed  the  "Jewish  problem" 
through  the  eyes  of  enlightenment  rationalism  and  believed  that 
European  powers  would  support  a  Jewish  national  existence 
outside  Europe  because  it  would  rid  them  of  the  Jewish  problem. 
These  Zionists  believed  that  Jews  would  come  en  masse  to  the  new 
entity,  which  would  be  a  secular  nation  modeled  after  the  post- 
emancipation  European  state. 

The  first  Jew  to  articulate  a  political  Zionist  platform  was  not 
a  West  European  but  a  Russian  physician  residing  in  Odessa.  A 
year  after  the  1881  pogroms,  Leo  Pinsker,  reflecting  the  disappoint- 
ment of  other  Jewish  maskalim,  wrote  in  a  pamphlet  entitled  Auto- 
Emancipation  that  anti-Semitism  was  a  modern  phenomenon,  beyond 
the  reach  of  any  future  triumphs  of '  'humanity  and  enlightenment. ' ' 
Therefore  Jews  must  organize  themselves  to  find  their  own  national 
home  wherever  possible,  not  necessarily  in  their  ancestral  home 
in  the  Holy  Land.  Pinsker' s  work  attracted  the  attention  of  Hib- 
bat  Tziyyon  (Lovers  of  Zion),  an  organization  devoted  to  Hebrew 
education  and  national  revival.  Ignoring  Pinsker' s  indifference 
toward  the  Holy  Land,  members  of  Hibbat  Tziyyon  took  up  his 
call  for  a  territorial  solution  to  the  Jewish  problem.  Pinsker,  who 
became  leader  of  the  movement,  obtained  funds  from  the  wealthy 
Jewish  philanthropist,  Baron  Edmond  de  Rothschild — who  was  not 
a  Zionist — to  support  Jewish  agricultural  settlement  in  Palestine 
at  Rishon  LeZiyyon,  south  of  Tel  Aviv,  and  Zikhron  Yaaqov,  south 
of  Haifa.  Although  the  numbers  were  meager — only  10,000  set- 
tlers by  1891 — especially  when  compared  to  the  large  number  of 
Jews  who  emigrated  to  the  United  States,  the  First  Aliyah 
(1882-1903),  or  immigration,  was  important  because  it  established 
a  Jewish  bridgehead  in  Palestine  espousing  political  objectives. 


24 


Historical  Setting 


The  impetus  to  the  founding  of  a  Zionist  organization  with  spe- 
cific goals  was  provided  by  Theodor  Herzl.  Born  in  Budapest  on 
May  2,  1860,  Herzl  grew  up  in  an  environment  of  assimilation. 
He  was  educated  in  Vienna  as  a  lawyer  but  instead  became  a  jour- 
nalist and  playwright.  By  the  early  1890s,  he  had  achieved  some 
recognition  in  Vienna  and  other  major  European  cities.  Until  that 
time,  he  had  only  been  identified  peripherally  with  Jewish  culture 
and  politics.  He  was  unfamiliar  with  earlier  Zionist  writings,  and 
he  noted  in  his  diary  that  he  would  not  have  written  his  book  had 
he  known  the  contents  of  Pinsker's  Auto-Emancipation. 

While  working  as  Paris  correspondent  for  a  Viennese  newspaper, 
Herzl  became  aware  of  the  pervasiveness  of  anti-Semitism  in  French 
society.  He  saw  that  emancipation  rather  than  dissipating  anti- 
Semitism  had  exacerbated  popular  animosity  toward  the  Jews.  The 
tearing  down  of  the  ghetto  walls  placed  Jews  in  competition  with 
non-Jews.  Moreover,  the  newly  liberated  Jew  was  blamed  by  much 
of  non-Jewish  French  society  for  the  socioeconomic  upheaval  caused 
by  both  emancipation  and  accelerated  industrialization. 

The  turning  point  in  Herzl' s  thinking  on  the  Jewish  question 
occurred  during  the  1894  Paris  trial  of  Alfred  Dreyfus,  a  Jewish 
officer  in  the  French  army,  on  charges  of  treason  (the  sale  of  mili- 
tary secrets  to  Germany).  Dreyfus  was  convicted,  and  although 
he  was  eventually  cleared,  his  career  was  ruined.  The  trial  and  later 
exoneration  sharply  divided  French  society  and  unleashed  wide- 
spread anti-Semitic  demonstrations  and  riots  throughout  France. 
To  Herzl' s  shock  and  dismay,  many  members  of  the  French  in- 
tellectual, social,  and  political  elites — precisely  those  elements  of 
society  into  which  the  upwardly  mobile  emancipated  Jews  wished 
to  be  assimilated — were  the  most  vitriolic  in  their  anti-Semitic 
stance. 

The  Dreyfus  affair  proved  for  Herzl,  as  the  1881  pogroms  had 
for  Pinsker,  that  Jews  would  always  be  an  alien  element  in  the  so- 
cieties in  which  they  resided  as  long  as  they  remained  stateless. 
He  believed  that  even  if  Jewish  separateness  in  religion  and  social 
custom  were  to  disappear,  the  Jews  would  continue  to  be  treated 
as  outsiders. 

Herzl  put  forth  his  solution  to  the  Jewish  problem  in  Der  Juden- 
staat  (The  Jewish  State)  published  in  1896.  He  called  for  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  Jewish  state  in  any  available  territory  to  which  the 
majority  of  European  Jewry  would  immigrate.  The  new  state  would 
be  modeled  after  the  postemancipation  European  state.  Thus,  it 
would  be  secular  in  nature,  granting  no  special  place  to  the  Hebrew 
language,  Judaism,  or  to  the  ancient  Jewish  homeland  in  Palestine. 


25 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Another  important  element  contained  in  Herzl's  concept  of  a 
Jewish  state  was  the  enlightenment  faith  that  all  men — including 
anti-Semites — are  basically  rational  and  will  work  for  goals  that 
they  perceive  to  be  in  their  best  interest.  He  was  convinced,  there- 
fore, that  the  enlightened  nations  of  Europe  would  support  the 
Zionist  cause  to  rid  their  domains  of  the  problem-creating  Jews. 
Consequently,  Herzl  actively  sought  international  recognition  and 
the  cooperation  of  the  Great  Powers  in  creating  a  Jewish  state. 

Herzl's  ideas  were  not  original,  his  belief  that  the  Great  Powers 
would  cooperate  in  the  Zionist  enterprise  was  naive,  and  his  in- 
difference to  the  final  location  of  the  Jewish  state  was  far  removed 
from  the  desires  of  the  bulk  of  the  Jewish  people  residing  in  the 
Pale  of  Settlement.  What  he  accomplished,  however,  was  to  culti- 
vate the  first  seeds  of  the  Zionist  movement  and  to  bestow  upon 
the  movement  a  mantle  of  legitimacy.  His  stature  as  a  respected 
Western  journalist  and  his  meetings  with  the  pope,  princes  of 
Europe,  the  German  kaiser,  and  other  world  figures,  although  not 
successful,  propelled  the  movement  into  the  international  arena. 
Herzl  sparked  the  hopes  and  aspirations  of  the  mass  of  East  Euro- 
pean Jewry  living  under  Russian  oppression.  It  was  the  oppressed 
Jewish  masses  of  the  Pale,  however — with  whom  Herzl,  the  as- 
similated bourgeois  of  the  West,  had  so  little  in  common — who  ab- 
sorbed his  message  most  deeply. 

In  1897  Herzl  convened  the  First  Zionist  Congress  in  Basel,  Swit- 
zerland. The  first  congress  adopted  the  goal:  "To  create  for  the 
Jewish  people  a  home  in  Palestine  secured  by  Public  Law."  The 
World  Zionist  Organization  (WZO — see  Glossary)  was  founded 
to  work  toward  this  goal,  and  arrangements  were  made  for  future 
congresses.  The  WZO  established  a  general  council,  a  central  ex- 
ecutive, and  a  congress,  which  was  held  every  year  or  two.  It  de- 
veloped member  societies  worldwide,  continued  to  encourage 
settlement  in  Palestine,  registered  a  bank  in  London,  and  estab- 
lished the  Jewish  National  Fund  (Keren  Kayemet)  to  buy  land  in 
Palestine.  The  First  Zionist  Congress  was  vital  to  the  future  de- 
velopment of  Zionism,  not  only  because  it  established  an  institu- 
tional framework  for  Zionism  but  also  because  it  came  to  symbolize 
for  many  Jews  a  new  national  identity,  the  first  such  identity  since 
the  destruction  of  the  Second  Temple  in  A.D.  70. 

Cultural  Zionism 

The  counterpoint  to  Herzl's  political  Zionism  was  provided  by 
Asher  Ginsberg,  better  known  by  his  pen  name  Ahad  HaAm  (One 
of  the  People).  Ahad  HaAm,  who  was  the  son  of  a  Hasidic  rabbi, 
was  typical  of  the  Russian  maskalim.  In  1886,  at  the  age  of  thirty, 


26 


Historical  Setting 


he  moved  to  Odessa  with  the  vague  hope  of  modernizing  Juda- 
ism. His  views  on  Zionism  were  rooted  in  the  changing  nature  of 
Jewish  communal  life  in  Eastern  Europe.  Ahad  HaAm  realized 
that  a  new  meaning  to  Jewish  life  would  have  to  be  found  for  the 
younger  generation  of  East  European  Jews  who  were  revolting 
against  traditional  Jewish  practice.  Whereas  Jews  in  the  West  could 
participate  in  and  benefit  from  a  secular  culture,  Jews  in  the  East 
were  oppressed.  While  Herzl  focused  on  the  plight  of  Jews  alone, 
Ahad  HaAm  was  also  interested  in  the  plight  of  Judaism,  which 
could  no  longer  be  contained  within  the  limits  of  traditional  religion. 

Ahad  HaAm's  solution  was  cultural  Zionism:  the  establishment 
in  Palestine  of  small  settlements  aimed  at  reviving  the  Jewish  spirit 
and  culture  in  the  modern  world.  In  the  cultural  Zionist  vision, 
a  small  number  of  Jewish  cadres  well  versed  in  Jewish  culture  and 
speaking  Hebrew  would  settle  in  Palestine.  Ahad  HaAm  believed 
that  by  settling  in  that  ancient  land,  religious  Jews  would  replace 
their  metaphysical  attachment  to  the  Holy  Land  with  a  new  Hebrew 
cultural  renaissance.  Palestine  and  the  Hebrew  language  were  im- 
portant not  because  of  their  religious  significance  but  because  they 
had  been  an  integral  part  of  the  Jewish  people's  history  and  cul- 
tural heritage. 

Inherent  in  the  cultural  Zionism  espoused  by  Ahad  HaAm  was 
a  deep  mistrust  of  the  gentile  world.  Ahad  HaAm  rejected  Herzl' s 
notion  that  the  nations  of  the  world  would  encourage  Jews  to  move 
and  establish  a  Jewish  state.  He  believed  that  only  through  Jewish 
self-reliance  and  careful  preparation  would  the  Zionist  enterprise 
succeed.  Although  Ahad  HaAm's  concept  of  a  vanguard  cultural 
elite  establishing  a  foothold  in  Palestine  was  quixotic,  his  idea  of 
piecemeal  settlement  in  Palestine  and  the  establishment  of  a  Zionist 
infrastructure  became  an  integral  part  of  the  Zionist  movement. 

The  ascendancy  of  Ahad  HaAm's  cultural  Zionism  and  its  em- 
phasis on  practical  settlement  in  Eretz  Yisrael  climaxed  at  the  Sixth 
Zionist  Congress  in  1903.  After  an  initial  discussion  of  settlement 
in  the  Sinai  Peninsula,  which  was  opposed  by  Egypt,  Herzl  came 
to  the  congress  apparently  willing  to  consider,  as  a  temporary 
shelter,  a  British  proposal  for  an  autonomous  Jewish  entity  in  East 
Africa.  The  Uganda  Plan,  as  it  was  called,  was  vehemently  rejected 
by  East  European  Zionists  who,  as  before,  insisted  on  the  ancient 
political  identity  with  Palestine.  Exhausted,  Herzl  died  of  pneu- 
monia in  1904,  and  from  that  time  on  the  mantle  of  Zionism  was 
carried  by  the  cultural  Zionists  led  by  Ahad  HaAm  and  his  close 
colleague,  Chaim  Weizmann.  They  took  over  the  WZO,  increased 
support  for  Hibbat  Tziyyon,  and  sought  Jewish  settiement  in  Pales- 
tine as  a  prerequisite  to  international  support  for  a  Jewish  state. 


27 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 
Labor  Zionism 

The  defeat  of  Herzl's  Uganda  Plan  ensured  that  the  fate  of  the 
Zionist  project  would  ultimately  be  determined  in  Palestine.  In 
Palestine  the  Zionist  movement  had  to  devise  a  practical  settlement 
plan  that  would  ensure  its  economic  viability  in  the  face  of  extremely 
harsh  conditions.  Neither  Herzl's  political  Zionism  nor  Ahad 
HaAm's  cultural  Zionism  articulated  a  practical  plan  for  settiement 
in  Palestine.  Another  major  challenge  facing  the  fledgling  move- 
ment was  how  to  appeal  to  the  increasing  number  of  young  Jews 
who  were  joining  the  growing  socialist  and  communist  movements 
in  Russia.  To  meet  these  challenges,  Labor  Zionism  emerged  as 
the  dominant  force  in  the  Zionist  movement. 

The  intellectual  founders  of  Labor  Zionism  were  Nachman 
Syrkin  and  Ber  Borochov.  They  inspired  the  founding  of  Poalei 
Tziyyon  (Workers  of  Zion,  see  Appendix  B) — the  first  Labor  Zionist 
party,  which  grew  quickly  from  1906  until  the  start  of  World  War  I. 
The  concepts  of  Labor  Zionism  first  emerged  as  criticisms  of  the 
Rothschild-supported  settiements  of  the  First  Aliyah.  Both  Borochov 
and  Syrkin  believed  that  the  Rothschild  settlements,  organized  on 
purely  capitalist  terms  and  therefore  hiring  Arab  labor,  would 
undermine  the  Jewish  enterprise.  Syrkin  called  for  Jewish  settle- 
ment based  on  socialist  modes  of  organization:  the  accumulation 
of  capital  managed  by  a  central  Jewish  organization  and  employ- 
ment of  Jewish  laborers  only.  He  believed  that  "anti-Semitism  was 
the  result  of  unequal  distribution  of  power  in  society.  As  long  as 
society  is  based  on  might,  and  as  long  as  the  Jew  is  weak,  anti- 
Semitism  will  exist."  Thus,  he  reasoned,  the  Jews  needed  a  material 
base  for  their  social  existence — a  state  and  political  power. 

Ber  Borochov' s  contribution  to  Labor  Zionism  was  his  synthe- 
sis of  the  concepts  of  class  and  nation.  In  his  most  famous  essay, 
entitled  Nationalism  and  Class  Struggle,  Borochov  showed  how  the 
nation,  in  this  case  the  Jewish  nation,  was  the  best  institution 
through  which  to  conduct  the  class  struggle.  According  to  Borochov, 
only  through  the  establishment  of  a  Jewish  society  controlling  its 
own  economic  infrastructure  could  Jews  be  integrated  into  the 
revolutionary  process.  His  synthesis  of  Marxism  and  Zionism 
attracted  many  Russian  Jews  caught  up  in  the  revolutionary  fer- 
vor of  the  Bolshevik  movement. 

Another  important  Labor  Zionist  and  the  first  actually  to  reside 
in  Palestine  was  Aaron  David  Gordon.  Gordon  believed  that  only 
by  physical  labor  and  by  returning  to  the  land  could  the  Jewish 
people  achieve  national  salvation  in  Palestine.  Gordon  became  a 
folk  hero  to  the  early  Zionists  by  coming  to  Palestine  in  1905  at 


28 


Historical  Setting 


a  relatively  advanced  age — forty-seven — and  assiduously  working 
the  land.  He  and  his  political  party,  HaPoel  HaTzair  (The  Young 
Worker),  were  a  major  force  behind  the  movement  to  collectivize 
Jewish  settlements  in  Palestine.  The  first  kibbutz  was  begun  by 
Gordon  and  his  followers  at  Deganya  in  eastern  Galilee. 

Before  Gordon's  arrival,  the  major  theorists  of  Labor  Zionism 
had  never  set  foot  in  Palestine.  Zionism  in  its  theoretical  formula- 
tions only  took  practical  effect  with  the  coming  to  Palestine  of  the 
Second  Aliyah.  Between  1904  and  1914,  approximately  40,000  Jews 
immigrated  to  Palestine  in  response  to  the  pogroms  that  followed 
the  attempted  Russian  revolution  of  1905.  By  the  end  of  the  Sec- 
ond Aliyah,  the  Jewish  population  of  Palestine  stood  at  about 
85,000,  or  12  percent  of  the  total  population.  The  members  of  the 
Second  Aliyah,  unlike  the  settlers  of  the  first,  were  dedicated 
socialists  set  on  establishing  Jewish  settlement  in  Palestine  along 
socialist  lines.  They  undertook  a  number  of  measures  aimed  at 
establishing  an  autonomous  Jewish  presence  in  Palestine,  such  as 
employing  only  Jewish  labor,  encouraging  the  widespread  use  of 
Hebrew,  and  forming  the  first  Jewish  self-defense  organization, 
HaShomer  (The  Watchmen). 

The  future  leadership  cadre  of  the  state  of  Israel  emerged  out 
of  the  Second  Aliyah.  The  most  important  leader  of  this  group  and 
the  first  prime  minister  of  Israel  was  David  Ben-Gurion  {ben,  son 
of — see  Glossary).  Ben-Gurion,  who  arrived  in  Palestine  in  1906, 
believed  that  economic  power  was  a  prerequisite  of  political  power. 
He  foresaw  that  the  fate  of  Zionist  settlement  in  Palestine  depended 
on  the  creation  of  a  strong  Jewish  economy.  This  aim,  he  believed, 
could  only  be  accomplished  through  the  creation  of  a  Hebrew- 
speaking  working  class  and  a  highly  centralized  Jewish  economic 
structure.  Beginning  in  the  1920s,  he  set  out  to  create  the  immense 
institutional  framework  for  a  Jewish  workers'  state  in  Palestine. 

Revisionist  Zionism 

Labor  Zionism,  although  by  far  the  largest  organization  in  the 
Yishuv  (the  p restate  Jewish  community  in  Palestine),  did  not  go 
unchallenged.  The  largest  and  most  vocal  opposition  came  from 
a  Russian-born  Jewish  intellectual  residing  in  Odessa,  Vladimir 
Jabotinsky.  Jabotinsky  was  both  a  renowned  writer  and  the  first 
military  hero  of  the  Zionist  revival;  he  was  commander  of  the  Jewish 
Legion.  While  residing  in  Italy,  Jabotinsky  became  attached  to  the 
notions  of  romantic  nationalism  espoused  by  the  great  Italian 
nationalist  Giuseppe  Garibaldi.  Like  Garibaldi,  Jabotinsky  viewed 
nationalism  as  the  highest  value  to  which  humans  can  aspire.  He 
called  for  massive  Jewish  immigration  to  Palestine  and  the 


29 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

immediate  declaration  of  Jewish  statehood  in  all  of  biblical  Pales- 
tine. He  viewed  the  world  in  Machiavellian  terms:  military  and 
political  power  ultimately  determine  the  fate  of  peoples  and  nations. 
Therefore,  he  called  for  the  establishment  of  a  well-armed  Jewish 
self-defense  organization. 

Jabotinsky  sharply  criticized  Ben-Gurion's  single-minded  focus 
on  creating  a  Jewish  working-class  movement,  which  he  felt  dis- 
tracted the  Zionist  movement  from  the  real  issue  at  hand,  Jewish 
statehood.  He  gained  wide  popularity  in  Poland,  where  his  criti- 
cisms of  socialism  and  his  calls  for  Jewish  self-defense  appealed  to 
a  Jewish  community  of  small  entrepreneurs  hounded  as  a  result 
of  anti-Semitism. 

Events  in  Palestine,  1908-48 
Arab  Nationalism 

Before  the  Second  Aliyah,  the  indigenous  Arab  population  of 
Palestine  had  worked  for  and  generally  cooperated  with  the  small 
number  of  Jewish  settlements.  The  increased  Jewish  presence  and 
the  different  policies  of  the  new  settlers  of  the  Second  Aliyah  aroused 
Arab  hostility.  The  increasing  tension  between  Jewish  settler  and 
Arab  peasant  did  not,  however,  lead  to  the  establishment  of  Arab 
nationalist  organizations.  In  the  Ottoman-controlled  Arab  lands 
the  Arab  masses  were  bound  by  family,  tribal,  and  Islamic  ties; 
the  concepts  of  nationalism  and  nation-state  were  viewed  as  alien 
Western  categories.  Thus,  an  imbalance  evolved  between  the  highly 
organized  and  nationalistic  settlers  of  the  Second  Aliyah  and  the 
indigenous  Arab  population,  who  lacked  the  organizational  sophisti- 
cation of  the  Zionists. 

There  were,  however,  small  groups  of  Western-educated  Arab 
intellectuals  and  military  officers  who  formed  nationalist  organi- 
zations demanding  greater  local  autonomy.  The  primary  moving 
force  behind  this  nascent  Arab  nationalist  movement  was  the  Com- 
mittee of  Union  and  Progress,  a  loose  umbrella  organization  of 
officers  and  officials  within  the  Ottoman  Empire  in  opposition  to 
the  policies  of  Sultan  Abdul  Hamid.  The  removal  of  Sultan  Abdul 
Hamid  by  the  Committee  of  Union  and  Progress  in  1908  was  widely 
supported  by  both  Arab  nationalists  and  Zionists.  The  commit- 
tee's program  of  constitutional  reform  and  promised  autonomy 
aroused  hope  of  independence  on  the  part  of  various  nationalities 
throughout  the  Ottoman  Empire. 

After  1908,  however,  it  quickly  became  clear  to  Zionists  and 
Arabs  alike  that  the  nationalism  of  Abdul  Hamid 's  successors  was 
Turkish  nationalism,  bent  on  Turkification  of  the  Ottoman  domain 


30 


31 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

rather  than  granting  local  autonomy.  In  response,  Arab  intellec- 
tuals in  Beirut  and  Damascus  formed  clandestine  political  societies, 
such  as  the  Ottoman  Decentralization  Party,  based  in  Cairo;  Al 
Ahd  (The  Covenant  Society),  formed  primarily  by  army  officers 
in  1914;  and  Al  Fatat  (The  Young  Arabs),  formed  by  students  in 
1911.  The  Arab  nationalism  espoused  by  these  groups  lacked  sup- 
port, however,  among  the  Arab  masses. 

World  War  I:  Diplomacy  and  Intrigue 

On  the  eve  of  World  War  I,  the  anticipated  break-up  of  the  en- 
feebled Ottoman  Empire  raised  hopes  among  both  Zionists  and 
Arab  nationalists.  The  Zionists  hoped  to  attain  support  from  one 
of  the  Great  Powers  for  increased  Jewish  immigration  and  even- 
tual sovereignty  in  Palestine,  whereas  the  Arab  nationalists  wanted 
an  independent  Arab  state  covering  all  the  Ottoman  Arab  domains. 
From  a  purely  demographic  standpoint,  the  Zionist  argument  was 
not  very  strong — in  1914  they  comprised  only  12  percent  of  the 
total  population  of  Palestine.  The  nationalist  ideal,  however,  was 
weak  among  the  Arabs,  and  even  among  articulate  Arabs  compet- 
ing visions  of  Arab  nationalism — Islamic,  pan- Arab,  and  statism — 
inhibited  coordinated  efforts  to  achieve  independence. 

A  major  asset  to  Zionism  was  that  its  chief  spokesman,  Chaim 
Weizmann,  was  an  astute  statesman  and  a  scientist  widely  respected 
in  Britain  and  he  was  well  versed  in  European  diplomacy.  Weiz- 
mann understood  better  than  the  Arab  leaders  at  the  time  that  the 
future  map  of  the  Middle  East  would  be  determined  less  by  the 
desires  of  its  inhabitants  than  by  Great  Power  rivalries,  European 
strategic  thinking,  and  domestic  British  politics.  Britain,  in  pos- 
session of  the  Suez  Canal  and  playing  a  dominant  role  in  India 
and  Egypt,  attached  great  strategic  importance  to  the  region.  British 
Middle  East  policy,  however,  espoused  conflicting  objectives,  and 
as  a  result  London  became  involved  in  three  distinct  and  contradic- 
tory negotiations  concerning  the  fate  of  the  region. 

The  earliest  British  discussions  of  the  Middle  East  question 
revolved  around  Sharif  Husayn  ibn  Ali,  scion  of  the  Hashimite 
(also  seen  as  Hashemite)  family  that  claimed  descent  from  the 
Prophet  and  acted  as  the  traditional  guardians  of  Islam's  most  holy 
sites  of  Mecca  and  Medina  in  the  Arabian  province  of  Hijaz.  In 
February  1914,  Amir  Abdullah,  son  of  Sharif  Husayn,  went  to 
Cairo  to  visit  Lord  Kitchener,  British  agent  and  consul  general  in 
Egypt,  where  he  inquired  about  the  possibility  of  British  support 
should  his  father  stage  a  revolt  against  Turkey.  Turkey  and  Ger- 
many were  not  yet  formally  allied,  and  Germany  and  Britain  were 
not  yet  at  war;  Kitchener's  reply  was,  therefore,  noncommittal. 


32 


Historical  Setting 


Shortly  after  the  outbreak  of  World  War  I  in  August  1914, 
Kitchener  was  recalled  to  London  as  secretary  of  state  for  war.  By 
1915,  as  British  military  fortunes  in  the  Middle  East  deteriorated, 
Kitchener  saw  the  usefulness  of  transferring  the  Islamic  caliphate — 
the  caliph,  or  successor  to  the  Prophet  Muhammad,  was  the  tradi- 
tional leader  of  the  Islamic  world — to  an  Arab  candidate  indebted 
to  Britain,  and  he  energetically  sought  Arab  support  for  the  war 
against  Turkey.  In  Cairo  Sir  Henry  McMahon,  the  first  British 
high  commissioner  in  Egypt,  conducted  an  extensive  correspon- 
dence from  July  1915  to  January  1916  with  Husayn,  two  of  whose 
sons — Abdullah,  later  king  of  Jordan,  and  Fay  sal,  later  king  of  Syria 
(ejected  by  the  French  in  1920)  and  of  Iraq  (1921-33)— were  to 
figure  prominently  in  subsequent  events. 

In  a  letter  to  McMahon  enclosed  with  a  letter  dated  July  14, 
1915,  from  Abdullah,  Husayn  specified  an  area  for  Arab  indepen- 
dence under  the  "Sharifian  Arab  Government"  consisting  of  the 
Arabian  Peninsula  (except  Aden)  and  the  Fertile  Crescent  of  Pales- 
tine, Lebanon,  Syria,  and  Iraq.  In  his  letter  of  October  24,  1915, 
to  Husayn,  McMahon,  on  behalf  of  the  British  government, 
declared  British  support  for  postwar  Arab  independence,  subject 
to  certain  reservations  and  exclusions  of  territory  not  entirely  Arab 
or  concerning  which  Britain  was  not  free  "to  act  without  detri- 
ment to  the  interests  of  her  ally,  France."  The  territories  assessed 
by  the  British  as  not  purely  Arab  included:  4 'The  districts  of  Mersin 
and  Alexandretta,  and  portions  of  Syria  lying  to  the  west  of  the 
districts  of  Damascus,  Horns,  Hama,  and  Aleppo."  As  with  the 
later  Balfour  Declaration,  the  exact  meaning  was  not  clear,  although 
Arab  spokesmen  since  then  have  usually  maintained  that  Pales- 
tine was  within  the  pledged  area  of  independence.  Although  the 
Husayn-McMahon  correspondence  was  not  legally  binding  on 
either  side,  on  June  5,  1916,  Husayn  launched  the  Arab  Revolt 
against  Turkey  and  in  October  declared  himself  "King  of  the 
Arabs." 

While  Husayn  and  McMahon  corresponded  over  the  fate  of  the 
Middle  East,  the  British  were  conducting  negotiations  with  the 
French  over  the  same  territory.  Following  the  British  military  defeat 
at  the  Dardanelles  in  1915,  the  Foreign  Office  sought  a  new  offen- 
sive in  the  Middle  East,  which  it  thought  could  only  be  carried 
out  by  reassuring  the  French  of  Britain's  intentions  in  the  region. 
In  February  1916,  the  Sykes-Picot  Agreement  (officially  the  "Asia 
Minor  Agreement")  was  signed,  which,  contrary  to  the  contents 
of  the  Husayn-McMahon  correspondence,  proposed  to  partition 
the  Middle  East  into  French  and  British  zones  of  control  and  in- 
terest. Under  the  Sykes-Picot  Agreement,  Palestine  was  to  be 


33 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

administered  by  an  international  "condominium"  of  the  British, 
French,  and  Russians  (also  signatories  to  the  agreement). 

The  final  British  pledge,  and  the  one  that  formally  committed 
the  British  to  the  Zionist  cause,  was  the  Balfour  Declaration  of 
November  1917.  Before  the  emergence  of  David  Lloyd  George  as 
prime  minister  and  Arthur  James  Balfour  as  foreign  secretary  in 
December  1916,  the  Liberal  Herbert  Asquith  government  had 
viewed  a  Jewish  entity  in  Palestine  as  detrimental  to  British  stra- 
tegic aims  in  the  Middle  East.  Lloyd  George  and  his  Tory  sup- 
porters, however,  saw  British  control  over  Palestine  as  much  more 
attractive  than  the  proposed  British-French  condominium.  Since 
the  Sykes-Picot  Agreement,  Palestine  had  taken  on  increased  stra- 
tegic importance  because  of  its  proximity  to  the  Suez  Canal,  where 
the  British  garrison  had  reached  300,000  men,  and  because  of  a 
planned  British  attack  on  Ottoman  Syria  originating  from  Egypt. 
Lloyd  George  was  determined,  as  early  as  March  1917,  that  Pales- 
tine should  become  British  and  that  he  would  rely  on  its  conquest 
by  British  troops  to  obtain  the  abrogation  of  the  Sykes-Picot 
Agreement. 

In  the  new  British  strategic  thinking,  the  Zionists  appeared  as 
a  potential  ally  capable  of  safeguarding  British  imperial  interests 
in  the  region.  Furthermore,  as  British  war  prospects  dimmed 
throughout  1917,  the  War  Cabinet  calculated  that  supporting  a 
Jewish  entity  in  Palestine  would  mobilize  America's  influential  Jew- 
ish community  to  support  United  States  intervention  in  the  war 
and  sway  the  large  number  of  Jewish  Bolsheviks  who  participated 
in  the  1917  Bolshevik  Revolution  to  keep  Russia  in  the  war.  Fears 
were  also  voiced  in  the  Foreign  Office  that  if  Britain  did  not  come 
out  in  favor  of  a  Jewish  entity  in  Palestine  the  Germans  would 
preempt  them.  Finally,  both  Lloyd  George  and  Balfour  were  devout 
churchgoers  who  attached  great  religious  significance  to  the  pro- 
posed reinstatement  of  the  Jews  in  their  ancient  homeland. 

The  negotiations  for  a  Jewish  entity  were  carried  out  by  Weiz- 
mann,  who  greatly  impressed  Balfour  and  maintained  important 
links  with  the  British  media.  In  support  of  the  Zionist  cause,  his 
protracted  and  skillful  negotiations  with  the  Foreign  Office  were 
climaxed  on  November  2,  1917,  by  the  letter  from  the  foreign  secre- 
tary to  Lord  Rothschild,  which  became  known  as  the  Balfour  Decla- 
ration. This  document  declared  the  British  government's 
"sympathy  with  Jewish  Zionist  aspirations,"  viewed  with  favor 
"the  establishment  in  Palestine  of  a  National  Home  for  the  Jew- 
ish People,"  and  announced  an  intent  to  facilitate  the  achievement 
of  this  objective.  The  letter  added  the  provision  of  "it  being  clearly 
understood  that  nothing  shall  be  done  which  may  prejudice  the 


34 


Historical  Setting 


civil  and  religious  rights  of  existing  non-Jewish  communities  in 
Palestine  or  the  rights  and  political  status  enjoyed  by  Jews  in  any 
other  country." 

The  Balfour  Declaration  radically  changed  the  status  of  the 
Zionist  movement.  It  promised  support  from  a  major  world  power 
and  gave  the  Zionists  international  recognition.  Zionism  was  trans- 
formed by  the  British  pledge  from  a  quixotic  dream  into  a  legiti- 
mate and  achievable  undertaking.  For  these  reasons,  the  Balfour 
Declaration  was  widely  criticized  throughout  the  Arab  world,  and 
especially  in  Palestine,  as  contrary  to  the  spirit  of  British  pledges 
contained  in  the  Husayn-McMahon  correspondence.  The  word- 
ing of  the  document  itself,  although  painstakingly  devised,  was  inter- 
preted differently  by  different  people,  according  to  their  interests. 
Ultimately,  it  was  found  to  contain  two  incompatible  undertak- 
ings: establishment  in  Palestine  of  a  national  home  for  the  Jews 
and  preservation  of  the  rights  of  existing  non-Jewish  communities, 
i.e.,  the  Arabs.  The  incompatibility  sharpened  over  the  succeed- 
ing years  and  became  irreconcilable. 

On  December  9,  1917,  five  weeks  after  the  Balfour  Declaration, 
British  troops  led  by  General  Sir  Edmund  Allenby  took  Jerusalem 
from  the  Turks;  Turkish  forces  in  Syria  were  subsequendy  defeated; 
an  armistice  was  concluded  with  Turkey  on  October  31 ,  1918;  and 
all  of  Palestine  came  under  British  military  rule.  British  policy  in 
the  Arab  lands  of  the  now  moribund  Ottoman  Empire  was  guided 
by  a  need  to  reduce  military  commitments,  hold  down  expendi- 
tures, prevent  a  renewal  of  Turkish  hegemony  in  the  region,  and 
safeguard  Britain's  strategic  interest  in  the  Suez  Canal.  The  con- 
flicting promises  issued  between  1915  and  1918  complicated  the 
attainment  of  these  objectives. 

Between  January  1919  and  January  1920,  the  Allied  Powers  met 
in  Paris  to  negotiate  peace  treaties  with  the  Central  Powers.  At 
the  conference,  Amir  Fay  sal,  representing  the  Arabs,  and  Weiz- 
mann,  representing  the  Zionists,  presented  their  cases.  Although 
Weizmann  and  Fay  sal  reached  a  separate  agreement  on  January  3, 
1919,  pledging  the  two  parties  to  cordial  cooperation,  the  latter 
wrote  a  proviso  on  the  document  in  Arabic  that  his  signature  was 
tied  to  Allied  war  pledges  regarding  Arab  independence.  Since  these 
pledges  were  not  fulfilled  to  Arab  satisfaction  after  the  war,  most 
Arab  leaders  and  spokesmen  have  not  considered  the  Faysal- 
Weizmann  agreement  as  binding. 

The  conferees  faced  the  nearly  impossible  task  of  finding  a  com- 
promise between  the  generally  accepted  idea  of  self-determination, 
wartime  promises,  and  plans  for  a  division  of  the  spoils.  They 
ultimately  decided  upon  a  mandate  system  whose  details  were  laid 


35 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

out  at  the  San  Remo  Conference  of  April  1920.  The  terms  of  the 
British  Mandate  were  approved  by  the  League  of  Nations  Coun- 
cil on  July  24,  1922,  although  they  were  technically  not  official  until 
September  29,  1923.  The  United  States  was  not  a  member  of  the 
League  of  Nations,  but  a  joint  resolution  of  the  United  States  Con- 
gress on  June  30,  1922,  endorsed  the  concept  of  the  Jewish  national 
home. 

The  Mandate's  terms  recognized  the  "historical  connection  of 
the  Jewish  people  with  Palestine,"  called  upon  the  mandatory  power 
to  "secure  establishment  of  the  Jewish  National  Home,"  and  recog- 
nized "an  appropriate  Jewish  agency"  for  advice  and  cooperation 
to  that  end.  The  WZO,  which  was  specifically  recognized  as  the 
appropriate  vehicle,  formally  established  the  Jewish  Agency  (see 
Glossary)  in  1929.  Jewish  immigration  was  to  be  facilitated,  while 
ensuring  that  the  "rights  and  position  of  other  sections  of  the  popu- 
lation are  not  prejudiced."  English,  Arabic,  and  Hebrew  were  all 
to  be  official  languages.  At  the  San  Remo  Conference,  the  French 
also  were  assured  of  a  mandate  over  Syria.  They  drove  Fay  sal  out 
of  Damascus  in  the  summer;  the  British  provided  him  with  a  throne 
in  Iraq  a  year  later.  In  March  1921 ,  Winston  Churchill,  then  colo- 
nial secretary,  established  Abdullah  as  ruler  of  Transjordan  under 
a  separate  British  mandate. 

To  the  WZO,  which  by  1921  had  a  worldwide  membership  of 
about  770,000,  the  recognition  in  the  Mandate  was  seen  as  a  wel- 
come first  step.  Although  not  all  Zionists  and  not  all  Jews  were 
committed  at  that  time  to  conversion  of  the  Jewish  national  home 
into  a  separate  political  state,  this  conversion  became  firm  Zionist 
policy  during  the  next  twenty-five  years.  The  patterns  developed 
during  these  years  strongly  influenced  the  State  of  Israel  proclaimed 
in  1948. 

Arab  spokesmen,  such  as  Husayn  and  his  sons,  opposed  the  Man- 
date's terms  because  the  Covenant  of  the  League  of  Nations  had 
endorsed  popular  determination  and  thereby,  they  maintained,  sup- 
ported the  cause  of  the  Arab  majority  in  Palestine.  Further,  the 
covenant  specifically  declared  that  all  other  obligations  and  under- 
standings inconsistent  with  it  were  abrogated.  Therefore,  Arab 
argument  held  that  both  the  Balfour  Declaration  and  the  Sykes- 
Picot  Agreement  were  null  and  void.  Arab  leaders  particularly 
objected  to  the  Mandate's  numerous  references  to  the  "Jewish  com- 
munity," whereas  the  Arab  people,  then  constituting  about  88  per- 
cent of  the  Palestinian  population,  were  acknowledged  only  as  "the 
other  sections." 

Prior  to  the  Paris  Peace  Conference,  Palestinian  Arab  nation- 
alists had  worked  for  a  Greater  Syria  (see  Glossary)  under  Faysal. 


36 


Historical  Setting 


The  British  military-  occupation  authority  in  Palestine,  fearing  an 
Arab  rebellion,  published  an  Anglo-French  Joint  Declaration,  issued 
after  the  armistice  with  Turkey  in  November  1918,  which  called 
for  self-determination  for  the  indigenous  people  of  the  region.  By 
the  end  of  1919,  the  British  had  withdrawn  from  Syria  (exclusive 
of  Palestine),  but  the  French  had  not  yet  entered  (except  in  Leba- 
non) and  Fay  sal  had  not  been  explicitly  repudiated  by  Britain.  In 
March  1920,  a  General  Syrian  Congress  meeting  in  Damascus 
elected  Faysal  king  of  a  united  Syria,  which  included  Palestine. 
This  raised  the  hope  of  the  Palestinian  Arab  population  that  the 
Balfour  Declaration  would  be  rescinded,  setting  off  a  feverish  series 
of  demonstrations  in  Palestine  in  the  spring  of  1920.  From  April 
4  to  8,  Arab  rioters  attacked  the  Jewish  quarter  of  Jerusalem. 
Faysal 's  ouster  by  the  French  in  the  summer  of  1920  led  to  further 
rioting  in  Jaffa  (contemporary  Yafo)  as  a  large  number  of  Pales- 
tinian Arabs  who  had  been  with  Faysal  returned  to  Palestine  to 
fight  against  the  establishment  of  a  Jewish  nation. 

The  end  of  Faysal' s  Greater  Syria  experiment  and  the  applica- 
tion of  the  mandate  system,  which  artificially  carved  up  the  Arab 
East  into  new  nation-states,  had  a  profound  effect  on  the  history 
of  the  region  in  general  and  Palestine  in  particular.  The  mandate 
system  created  an  identity  crisis  among  Arab  nationalists  that  led 
to  the  growth  of  competing  nationalisms:  Arab  versus  Islamic  versus 
the  more  parochial  nationalisms  of  the  newly  created  states.  It  also 
created  a  serious  legitimacy  problem  for  the  new  Arab  elites,  whose 
authority  ultimately  rested  with  their  European  benefactors.  The 
combination  of  narrowly  based  leadership  and  the  emergence  of 
competing  nationalisms  stymied  the  Arab  response  to  the  Zionist 
challenge  in  Palestine. 

To  British  authorities,  burdened  with  heavy  responsibilities  and 
commitments  after  World  War  I,  the  objective  of  the  Mandate  ad- 
ministration was  peaceful  accommodation  and  development  of 
Palestine  by  Arabs  and  Jews  under  British  control.  Sir  Herbert 
Samuels,  the  first  high  commissioner  of  Palestine,  was  responsi- 
ble for  keeping  some  semblance  of  order  between  the  two  antagonis- 
tic communities.  In  pursuit  of  this  goal,  Samuels,  a  Jew,  was  guided 
by  two  contradictory  principles:  liberalism  and  Zionism.  He  called 
for  open  Jewish  immigration  and  land  acquisition,  which  enabled 
thousands  of  highly  committed  and  well-trained  socialist  Zionists 
to  enter  Palestine  between  1919  and  1923.  The  Third  Aliyah,  as 
it  was  called,  made  important  contributions  to  the  development 
of  Jewish  agriculture,  especially  collective  farming.  Samuels, 
however,  also  promised  representative  institutions,  which,  if  they 
had  emerged  in  the  1920s,  would  have  had  as  their  first  objective 


37 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

the  curtailment  of  Jewish  immigration.  According  to  the  census 
of  1922,  the  Jews  numbered  only  84,000,  or  1 1  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation of  Palestine.  The  Zionists,  moreover,  could  not  openly  op- 
pose the  establishment  of  democratic  structures,  which  was  clearly 
in  accordance  with  the  Covenant  of  the  League  of  Nations  and  the 
mandatory  system. 

The  Arabs  of  Palestine,  however,  believing  that  participation 
in  Mandate-sanctioned  institutions  would  signify  their  acquiescence 
to  the  Mandate  and  thus  to  the  Balfour  Declaration,  refused  to  par- 
ticipate. As  a  result,  Samuels 's  proposals  for  a  legislative  council, 
an  advisory  council,  and  an  Arab  agency  envisioned  as  similar  to 
the  Jewish  Agency,  were  all  rejected  by  the  Arabs.  After  the  col- 
lapse of  the  bid  for  representative  institutions,  any  possibility  of 
joint  consultation  between  the  two  communities  ended. 

The  Arab  Community  During  the  Mandate 

The  British  Mandate  and  the  intensification  of  Jewish  settlement 
in  Palestine  significantly  altered  Palestinian  leadership  structures 
and  transformed  the  socioeconomic  base  of  Palestinian  Arab  soci- 
ety. First,  British  policy  in  Palestine,  as  elsewhere  in  the  Middle 
East,  was  based  on  patronage.  This  policy  entailed  granting  wide 
powers  to  a  small  group  of  competing  traditional  elites  whose 
authority  would  depend  upon  the  British  high  commissioner.  In 
Palestine,  Samuels  granted  the  most  important  posts  to  two  com- 
peting families,  the  Husaynis  (also  seen  as  Husseinis)  and  the 
Nashashibis.  Of  the  two  clans,  the  Husaynis  were  given  the  most 
powerful  posts,  many  of  which  had  no  precedent  under  Ottoman 
rule.  In  1921  Samuels  appointed  Hajj  Amin  al  Husayni,  an  ardent 
anti-Zionist  and  a  major  figure  behind  the  April  1920  riots,  as  mufti 
(chief  Muslim  religious  jurist)  of  Jerusalem.  In  1922  he  augmented 
Hajj  Amin's  power  by  appointing  him  president  of  the  newly  con- 
stituted Supreme  Muslim  Council  (SMC),  which  was  given  wide 
powers  over  the  disbursement  of  funds  from  religious  endowments, 
fees,  and  the  like. 

By  heading  the  SMC,  Hajj  Amin  controlled  a  vast  patronage 
network,  giving  him  power  over  a  large  constituency.  This  new 
patronage  system  competed  with  and  threatened  the  traditional 
family-clan  and  Islamic  ties  that  existed  under  the  Ottoman  Em- 
pire. Traditional  Arab  elites  hailing  from  other  locales,  such  as 
Hebron  and  Haifa,  resented  the  monopoly  of  power  of  the  British- 
supported  Jerusalem-based  elite.  Furthermore,  as  an  agricultural 
depression  pushed  many  Arabs  westward  into  the  coastal  cities, 
a  new  urban-based  elite  emerged  that  challenged  the  Nashashibis 
and  Husaynis. 


38 


II 


A  building  on  Jaffa  Road 
in  the  New  City  of  Jerusalem 
Courtesy  Les  Vogel 


Tension  between  members  of  Arab  elites  was  exacerbated  because 
Hajj  Amin,  who  was  not  an  elected  official,  increasingly  attempted 
to  dictate  Palestinian  politics.  The  competition  between  the  major 
families  and  the  increased  use  of  the  Zionist  threat  as  a  political 
tool  in  interelite  struggles  placed  a  premium  on  extremism.  Hajj 
Amin  frequently  incited  his  followers  against  the  Nashashibis  by 
referring  to  the  latter  as  Zionist  collaborators.  As  a  result,  Pales- 
tinian leadership  during  the  Mandate  was  fragmented  and  unable 
to  develop  a  coherent  policy  to  deal  with  the  growing  Zionist 
movement. 

The  other  major  transformation  in  Palestinian  Arab  society  dur- 
ing the  Mandate  concerned  the  issue  of  land  ownership.  During 
the  years  of  Ottoman  rule,  the  question  of  private  property  rights 
was  never  fully  articulated.  The  tenuous  nature  of  private  property 
rights  enabled  the  Zionist  movement  to  acquire  large  tracts  of  land 
that  had  been  Arab  owned.  The  sale  of  land  to  Jewish  setders,  which 
occurred  even  during  the  most  intense  phases  of  the  Palestinian 
Revolt,  reflected  the  lack  of  national  cohesion  and  institutional  struc- 
ture that  might  have  enabled  the  Palestinian  Arabs  to  withstand 
the  lure  of  quick  profits.  Instead,  when  increased  Jewish  land  pur- 
chases caused  property  prices  to  spiral,  both  the  Arab  landowning 
class  and  absentee  landlords,  many  of  whom  resided  outside  Pales- 
tine, were  quick  to  sell  for  unprecedented  profits.  In  the  1930s, 
when  Palestine  was  beset  by  a  severe  economic  depression,  large 


39 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

numbers  of  Arab  peasants,  unable  to  pay  either  their  Arab  land- 
lords or  taxes  to  the  government,  sold  their  land.  The  British  did 
not  intervene  in  the  land  purchases  mainly  because  they  needed 
the  influx  of  Jewish  capital  to  pay  for  Jewish  social  services  and 
to  maintain  the  Jewish  economy. 

The  Jewish  Community  under  the  Mandate 

The  greatest  asset  brought  by  the  Zionists  settling  Palestine  was 
their  organizational  acumen,  which  allowed  for  the  institutionali- 
zation of  the  movement  despite  deep  ideological  cleavages.  The 
WZO  established  an  executive  office  in  Palestine,  thus  implement- 
ing the  language  of  the  Mandate  prescribing  such  an  agency.  In 
August  1929,  the  formalized  Jewish  Agency  was  established  with 
a  council,  administrative  committee,  and  executive.  Each  of  these 
bodies  consisted  of  an  equal  number  of  Zionist  and  nominally  non- 
Zionist  Jews.  The  president  of  the  WZO  was,  however,  ex  officio 
president  of  the  agency.  Thereafter,  the  WZO  continued  to  con- 
duct external  diplomatic,  informational,  and  cultural  activities,  and 
the  operational  Jewish  Agency  took  over  fundraising,  activities  in 
Palestine,  and  local  relations  with  the  British  Mandate  Authority 
(administered  by  the  colonial  secretary).  In  time,  the  World  Zionist 
Organization  and  the  Jewish  Agency  became  two  different  names 
for  virtually  the  same  organization. 

Other  landmark  developments  by  the  WZO  and  the  Jewish 
Agency  under  the  Mandate  included  creation  of  the  Asefat  Haniv- 
harim  (Elected  Assembly — see  Glossary)  and  the  Vaad  Leumi 
(National  Council)  in  1920  to  promote  religious,  educational,  and 
welfare  services;  establishment  of  the  chief  rabbinate  in  1921;  cen- 
tralized Zionist  control  of  the  Hebrew  school  system  in  1919,  open- 
ing of  the  Technion  (Israel  Institute  of  Technology)  in  Haifa  in 
1924,  and  dedication  of  the  Hebrew  University  of  Jerusalem  in 
1925;  and  continued  acquisition  of  land — largely  via  purchases  by 
the  Jewish  National  Fund — increasing  from  60,120  hectares  in  1922 
to  about  155,140  hectares  in  1939,  and  the  concurrent  growth  of 
Jewish  urban  and  village  centers. 

The  architect  of  the  centralized  organizational  structure  that 
dominated  the  Yishuv  throughout  the  Mandate  and  afterward  was 
Ben-Gurion.  To  achieve  a  centralized  Jewish  economic  infrastruc- 
ture in  Palestine,  he  set  out  to  form  a  large-scale  organized  Jewish 
labor  movement  including  both  urban  and  agricultural  laborers. 
In  1919  he  founded  the  first  united  Labor  Zionist  party,  Ahdut 
HaAvodah  (Unity  of  Labor),  which  included  Poalei  Tziyyon  and 
affiliated  socialist  groups.  This  achievement  was  followed  in 
1920  by  the  formation  of  the  Histadrut,  or  HaHistadrut  HaKlalit 


40 


Historical  Setting 


shel  HaOvdim  B'Eretz  Yisrael  (General  Federation  of  Laborers 
in  the  Land  of  Israel). 

The  Histadrut  was  the  linchpin  of  Ben-Gurion's  reorganization 
of  the  Yishuv.  He  designed  the  Histadrut  to  form  a  tightly  con- 
trolled autonomous  Jewish  economic  state  within  the  Palestinian 
economy.  It  functioned  as  much  more  than  a  traditional  labor 
union,  providing  the  Yishuv  with  social  services  and  security,  set- 
ting up  training  centers,  helping  absorb  new  immigrants,  and  in- 
structing them  in  Hebrew.  Its  membership  was  all-inclusive:  any 
Jewish  laborer  was  entitled  to  belong  and  to  obtain  shares  in  the 
organization's  assets.  It  established  a  general  fund  supported  by 
workers'  dues  that  provided  all  members  with  social  services  previ- 
ously provided  by  individual  political  parties.  The  Histadrut  also 
set  up  Hevrat  HaOvdim  (Society  of  Workers)  to  fund  and  manage 
large-scale  agricultural  and  industrial  enterprises.  Within  a  year 
of  its  establishment  in  1921 ,  Hevrat  HaOvdim  had  set  up  Tenuvah, 
the  agriculture  marketing  cooperative;  Bank  HaPoalim,  the  work- 
ers' bank;  and  Soleh  Boneh,  the  construction  firm.  Originally  es- 
tablished by  Ahdut  HaAvodah  after  the  Arab  riots  in  1920,  the 
Haganah  under  the  Histadrut  rapidly  became  the  major  Jewish 
defense  force  (see  Historical  Background,  ch.  5). 

From  the  beginning,  Ben-Gurion  and  Ahdut  HaAvodah  domi- 
nated the  Histadrut  and  through  it  the  Yishuv.  As  secretary  general 
of  the  Histadrut,  Ben-Gurion  oversaw  the  development  of  the  Jew- 
ish economy  and  defense  forces  in  the  Yishuv.  This  centralized  con- 
trol enabled  the  Yishuv  to  endure  both  severe  economic  hardship 
and  frequent  skirmishes  with  the  Arabs  and  British  in  the  late  1920s. 
The  resilience  of  the  Histadrut  in  the  face  of  economic  depression 
enabled  Ben-Gurion  to  consolidate  his  control  over  the  Yishuv.  In 
1929  many  private  entrepreneurs  were  forced  to  look  to  Ahdut 
HaAvodah  to  pull  them  through  hard  economic  times.  In  1930 
Ahdut  HaAvodah  was  powerful  enough  to  absorb  its  old  ideologi- 
cal rival,  HaPoel  HaTzair.  They  merged  to  form  Mifleget  Poalei 
Eretz  Yisrael  (better  known  by  its  acronym  Mapai),  which  would 
dominate  political  life  of  the  State  of  Israel  for  the  next  two  gener- 
ations (see  Multiparty  System,  ch.  4). 

The  hegemony  of  Ben-Gurion's  Labor  Zionism  in  the  Yishuv 
did  not  go  unchallenged.  The  other  major  contenders  for  power 
were  the  Revisionist  Zionists  led  by  Vladimir  Jabotinsky,  who 
espoused  a  more  liberal  economic  structure  and  a  more  zealous 
defense  policy  than  the  Labor  movement.  Jabotinsky,  who  had  be- 
come a  hero  to  the  Yishuv  because  of  his  role  in  the  defense  of  the 
Jews  of  Jerusalem  during  the  riots  of  April  1920,  believed  that 
there  was  an  inherent  conflict  between  Zionist  objectives  and  the 


41 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

aspirations  of  Palestinian  Arabs.  He  called  for  the  establishment 
of  a  strong  Jewish  military  force  capable  of  compelling  the  Arabs 
to  accept  Zionist  claims  to  Palestine.  Jabotinsky  also  thought  that 
Ben-Gurion's  focus  on  building  a  socialist  Jewish  economy  in  Pales- 
tine needlessly  diverted  the  Zionist  movement  from  its  true  goal: 
the  establishment  of  a  Jewish  state  in  Palestine. 

The  appeal  of  Revisionist  Zionism  grew  between  1924  and  1930 
as  a  result  of  an  influx  of  Polish  immigrants  and  the  escalating  con- 
flict with  the  Arabs.  In  the  mid- 1920s,  a  political  and  economic 
crisis  in  Poland  and  the  Johnson-Lodge  Immigration  Act  passed 
by  the  United  States  Congress,  which  curtailed  mass  immigration 
to  America,  spurred  Polish-Jewish  immigration  to  Israel.  Between 
1924  and  1931,  approximately  80,000  Jews  arrived  in  Palestine 
from  Central  Europe.  The  Fourth  Aliyah,  as  it  was  called,  differed 
from  previous  waves  of  Jewish  immigration.  The  new  Polish  im- 
migrants, unlike  the  Bolshevik-minded  immigrants  of  the  Second 
Aliyah,  were  primarily  petty  merchants  and  small-time  industri- 
alists with  their  own  capital  to  invest.  Not  attracted  to  the  Labor 
Party's  collective  settlements,  they  migrated  to  the  cities  where  they 
established  the  first  semblance  of  an  industrialized  urban  Jewish 
economy  in  Palestine.  Within  five  years,  the  Jewish  populations 
of  Jerusalem  and  Haifa  doubled,  and  the  city  of  Tel  Aviv  emerged. 
These  new  immigrants  disdained  the  socialism  of  the  Histadrut  and 
increasingly  identified  with  the  laissez-faire  economics  espoused  by 
Jabotinsky. 

Another  reason  for  Jabotinsky 's  increasing  appeal  was  the  escala- 
tion of  Jewish- Arab  violence.  Jabotinsky's  belief  in  the  inevitable 
conflict  between  Jews  and  Arabs  and  his  call  for  the  establishment 
of  an  "iron  wall"  that  would  force  the  Arabs  to  accept  Zionism 
were  vindicated  in  the  minds  of  many  Jews  after  a  confrontation 
over  Jewish  access  to  the  Wailing  Wall  in  August  1929  turned  into 
a  violent  Arab  attack  on  Jews  in  Hebron  and  Jerusalem.  By  the 
time  the  fighting  ended,  133  Jews  had  been  killed  and  339  wounded. 
The  causes  of  the  disturbances  were  varied:  an  inter-Palestinian 
power  struggle,  a  significant  cutback  in  British  military  presence 
in  Palestine,  and  a  more  conciliatory  posture  by  the  new  British 
authorities  toward  the  Arab  position. 

The  inability  of  the  Haganah  to  protect  Jewish  civilians  during 
the  1929  riots  led  Jewish  Polish  immigrants  who  supported 
Jabotinsky  to  break  away  from  the  Labor-dominated  Haganah. 
They  were  members  of  Betar,  an  activist  Zionist  movement  founded 
in  1923  in  Riga,  Latvia,  under  the  influence  of  Jabotinsky.  The 
first  Betar  congress  met  at  Danzig  in  1931  and  elected  Jabotinsky 
as  its  leader.  In  1937,  a  group  of  Haganah  members  left  the 


42 


Historical  Setting 


organization  in  protest  against  its  "defensive"  orientation  and 
joined  forces  with  Betar  to  set  up  a  new  and  more  militant  armed 
underground  organization,  known  as  the  Irgun.  The  formal  name 
of  the  Irgun  was  the  Irgun  Zvai  Leumi  (National  Military  Organi- 
zation), sometimes  also  called  by  the  acronym,  Etzel,  from  the  initial 
letters  of  the  Hebrew  name.  The  more  extreme  terrorist  group, 
known  to  the  British  as  the  Stern  Gang,  split  off  from  the  Irgun 
in  1939.  The  Stern  Gang  was  formally  known  as  the  Lohamei  Herut 
Israel  (Fighters  for  Israel's  Freedom),  sometimes  identified  by  the 
acronym  Lehi  (see  Glossary).  Betar  (which  later  formed  a  nucleus 
for  Herut — see  Appendix  B)  and  Irgun  rejected  the  Histadrut/ 
Haganah  doctrine  of  havlaga  (self-restraint)  and  favored  retaliation. 

Although  the  1929  riots  intensified  the  Labor- Revisionist  split 
over  the  tactics  necessary  to  attain  Jewish  sovereignty  in  Palestine, 
their  respective  visions  of  the  indigenous  Arab  population  coalesced. 
Ben-Gurion,  like  Jabotinsky,  came  to  realize  that  the  conflict  be- 
tween Arab  and  Jewish  nationalisms  was  irreconcilable  and  there- 
fore that  the  Yishuv  needed  to  prepare  for  an  eventual  military 
confrontation  with  the  Arabs.  He  differed  with  Jabotinsky,  however, 
on  the  need  to  make  tactical  compromises  in  the  short  term  to  at- 
tain Jewish  statehood  at  a  more  propitious  time.  Whereas  Jabotinsky 
adamantly  put  forth  maximalist  demands,  such  as  the  immediate 
proclamation  of  statehood  in  all  of  historic  Palestine — on  both  banks 
of  the  Jordan  River — Ben-Gurion  operated  within  the  confines  of 
the  Mandate.  He  understood  better  than  Jabotinsky  that  timing 
was  the  key  to  the  Zionist  enterprise  in  Palestine.  The  Yishuv  in 
the  1930s  lacked  the  necessary  military  or  economic  power  to  carry 
out  Jabotinsky' s  vision  in  the  face  of  Arab  and  British  opposition. 

Another  development  resulting  from  the  1929  riots  was  the  grow- 
ing animosity  between  the  British  Mandate  Authority  and  the 
Yishuv.  The  inactivity  of  the  British  while  Arab  bands  were  at- 
tacking Jewish  settlers  strengthened  Zionist  anti-British  forces.  Fol- 
lowing the  riots,  the  British  set  up  the  Shaw  Commission  to 
determine  the  cause  of  the  disturbances.  The  commission  report, 
dated  March  30,  1930,  refrained  from  blaming  either  community 
but  focused  on  Arab  apprehensions  about  Jewish  labor  practices 
and  land  purchases.  The  commission's  allegations  were  investigated 
by  an  agrarian  expert,  Sir  John  Hope  Simpson,  who  concluded 
that  about  30  percent  of  the  Arab  population  was  already  landless 
and  that  the  amount  of  land  remaining  in  Arab  hands  would 
be  insufficient  to  divide  among  their  offspring.  This  led  to  the 
Passfield  White  Paper  (October  1930),  which  recommended  that 
Jewish  immigration  be  stopped  if  it  prevented  Arabs  from  obtain- 
ing employment  and  that  Jewish  land  purchases  be  curtailed. 


43 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Although  the  Passfield  White  Paper  was  publicly  repudiated  by 
Prime  Minister  Ramsay  MacDonald  in  1931,  it  served  to  alienate 
further  the  Yishuv  from  the  British. 

The  year  1929  also  saw  the  beginning  of  a  severe  economic  cri- 
sis in  Germany  that  launched  the  rise  of  Adolf  Hitler.  Although 
both  Germany  and  Austria  had  long  histories  of  anti-Semitism, 
the  genocide  policies  preached  by  Hitier  were  unprecedented.  When 
in  January  1930  he  became  chancellor  of  the  Reich,  a  massive  wave 
of  mostly  German  Jewish  immigration  to  Palestine  ensued. 
Recorded  Jewish  immigration  was  37,000  in  1933,  45,000  in  1934, 
and  an  all-time  record  for  the  Yishuv  of  61,000  in  1935.  In  addi- 
tion, the  British  estimated  that  a  total  of  40,000  Jews  had  entered 
Palestine  without  legal  certificates  during  the  period  from  1920  to 
1939.  Between  1929,  the  year  of  the  Wailing  Wall  disturbances, 
and  1936,  the  year  the  Palestinian  Revolt  began,  the  Jewish  popu- 
lation of  Palestine  increased  from  170,000  or  17  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation, to  400,000,  or  approximately  31  percent  of  the  total.  The 
immigration  of  thousands  of  German  Jews  accelerated  the  pace  of 
industrialization  and  made  the  concept  of  a  Jewish  state  in  Pales- 
tine a  more  formidable  reality. 

The  Palestinian  Revolt,  1936-39 

By  1936  the  increase  in  Jewish  immigration  and  land  acquisi- 
tion, the  growing  power  of  Hajj  Amin  al  Husayni,  and  general 
Arab  frustration  at  the  continuation  of  European  rule,  radicalized 
increasing  numbers  of  Palestinian  Arabs.  Thus,  in  April  1936  an 
Arab  attack  on  a  Jewish  bus  led  to  a  series  of  incidents  that  esca- 
lated into  a  major  Palestinian  rebellion.  An  Arab  Higher  Com- 
mittee (AHC),  a  loose  coalition  of  recently  formed  Arab  political 
parties,  was  created.  It  declared  a  national  strike  in  support  of  three 
basic  demands:  cessation  of  Jewish  immigration,  an  end  to  all  fur- 
ther land  sales  to  the  Jews,  and  the  establishment  of  an  Arab 
national  government. 

The  intensity  of  the  Palestinian  Revolt,  at  a  time  when  Britain 
was  preparing  for  the  possibility  of  another  world  war,  led  the  British 
to  reorient  their  policy  in  Palestine.  As  war  with  Germany  became 
imminent,  Britain's  dependence  on  Middle  Eastern  oil,  and  there- 
fore the  need  for  Arab  goodwill,  loomed  increasingly  large  in  its 
strategic  thinking.  Jewish  leverage  in  the  Foreign  Office,  on  the 
other  hand,  had  waned;  the  pro-Zionists,  Balfour  and  Samuels, 
had  left  the  Foreign  Office  and  the  new  administration  was  not 
inclined  toward  the  Zionist  position.  Furthermore,  the  Jews  had 
little  choice  but  to  support  Britain  against  Nazi  Germany.  Thus, 
Britain's  commitment  to  a  Jewish  homeland  in  Palestine  dissipated, 


44 


Historical  Setting 


and  the  Mandate  authorities  pursued  a  policy  of  appeasement  with 
respect  to  the  Arabs. 

Britain's  policy  change  in  Palestine  was  not,  however,  easily  im- 
plemented. Since  the  1917  Balfour  Declaration,  successive  British 
governments  had  supported  (or  at  least  not  rejected)  a  Jewish  na- 
tional home  in  Palestine.  The  Mandate  itself  was  premised  on  that 
pledge.  By  the  mid- 1930s,  the  Yishuv  had  grown  to  about  400,000, 
and  the  Jewish  economic  and  political  structures  in  Palestine  were 
well  ensconced.  The  extent  of  the  Jewish  presence  and  the  rapidly 
deteriorating  fate  of  European  Jewry  meant  that  the  British  would 
have  an  extremely  difficult  time  extricating  themselves  from  the 
Balfour  Declaration.  Furthermore,  the  existing  Palestinian  leader- 
ship, dominated  by  Hajj  Amin  al  Husayni,  was  unwilling  to  grant 
members  of  the  Jewish  community  citizenship  or  to  guarantee  their 
safety  if  a  new  Arab  entity  were  to  emerge.  Thus,  for  the  British 
the  real  options  were  to  impose  partition,  to  pull  out  and  leave  the 
Jews  and  Arabs  to  fight  it  out,  or  to  stay  and  improvise. 

In  1937  the  British,  working  with  their  regional  Arab  allies,  Amir 
Abdullah  of  Transjordan,  King  Ghazi  of  Iraq,  and  King  Abdul 
Aziz  ibn  Saud  of  Saudi  Arabia,  mediated  an  end  to  the  revolt  with 
the  AHC.  A  Royal  Commission  on  Palestine  (known  as  the  Peel 
Commission)  was  immediately  dispatched  to  Palestine.  Its  report, 
issued  in  July  1937,  described  the  Arab  and  Zionist  positions  and 
the  British  obligation  to  each  as  irreconcilable  and  the  existing 
Mandate  as  unworkable.  It  recommended  partition  of  Palestine 
into  Jewish  and  Arab  states,  with  a  retained  British  Mandate  over 
Nazareth,  Bethlehem,  and  Jerusalem  and  a  corridor  from  Jerusa- 
lem to  the  coast  (see  fig.  3). 

In  1937  the  Twentieth  Zionist  Congress  rejected  the  proposed 
boundaries  but  agreed  in  principle  to  partition.  Palestinian  Arab 
nationalists  rejected  any  kind  of  partition.  The  British  government 
approved  the  idea  of  partition  and  sent  a  technical  team  to  make 
a  detailed  plan.  This  group,  the  Woodhead  Commission,  reversed 
the  Peel  Commission's  findings  and  reported  in  November  1937 
that  partition  was  impracticable;  this  view  in  its  turn  was  accepted. 
The  Palestinian  Revolt  broke  out  again  in  the  autumn  of  1937. 
The  British  put  down  the  revolt  using  harsh  measures,  shutting 
down  the  AHC  and  deporting  many  Palestinian  Arab  leaders. 

With  their  leadership  residing  outside  Palestine,  the  Arabs  were 
unable  to  match  the  Zionists'  highly  sophisticated  organization. 
Another  outcome  of  the  Palestinian  Revolt  was  the  involvement 
of  the  Arab  states  as  advocates  of  the  Palestinian  Arabs.  Whereas 
Britain  had  previously  tended  to  deal  with  its  commitments  in 


45 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Historical  Setting 


Palestine  as  separate  from  its  commitments  elsewhere  in  the  Mid- 
dle East,  by  1939  pan-Arab  pressure  carried  increasing  weight  in 
London. 

In  the  Yishuv,  the  Palestinian  Revolt  reinforced  the  already  firm 
belief  in  the  need  for  a  strong  Jewish  defense  network.  Finally,  the 
Arab  agricultural  boycott  that  began  in  1936  forced  the  Jewish  econ- 
omy into  even  greater  self-sufficiency. 

World  War  II  and  Zionism 

In  May  1939,  the  British  published  a  White  Paper  that  marked 
the  end  of  its  commitment  to  the  Jews  under  the  Balfour  Declara- 
tion. It  provided  for  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  (Arab)  state 
within  ten  years  and  the  appointment  of  Palestinian  ministers  to 
begin  taking  over  the  government  as  soon  as  "peace  and  order" 
were  restored  to  Palestine;  75,000  Jews  would  be  allowed  into  Pales- 
tine over  the  next  five  years,  after  which  all  immigration  would 
be  subject  to  Arab  consent;  all  further  land  sales  would  be  severely 
restricted.  The  1939  White  Paper  met  a  mixed  Arab  reception  and 
was  rejected  by  the  AHC.  The  Jewish  Agency  rejected  it  emphati- 
cally, branding  it  as  a  total  repudiation  of  Balfour  and  Mandate 
obligations.  In  September  1939,  at  the  outset  of  World  War  II, 
Ben-Gurion,  then  chairman  of  the  Jewish  Agency,  declared:  "We 
shall  fight  the  war  against  Hitler  as  if  there  were  no  White  Paper, 
and  we  shall  fight  the  White  Paper  as  if  there  were  no  war." 

Ben-Gurion 's  statement  of  1939  set  the  tone  for  Jewish  Agency 
policy  and  operations  during  World  War  II.  In  May  1940,  however, 
when  Winston  Churchill,  a  longtime  Zionist  sympathizer,  became 
prime  minister,  it  appeared  that  the  1939  White  Paper  might  be 
rescinded.  A  brief  period  of  close  British-Jewish  military  coopera- 
tion ensued,  and  there  was  talk  (which  never  came  to  fruition)  of 
establishing  a  Jewish  division  within  the  British  Army.  The  Brit- 
ish trained  Jewish  commando  units,  the  first  elements  of  the  fa- 
mous Palmach  (Pelugot  Mahatz — Shock  Forces — see  Glossary) — 
the  strategic  reserve  of  the  Haganah — and  they  also  gave  Jewish 
volunteers  intensive  training  in  sabotage,  demolition,  and  parti- 
san warfare.  Ironically,  this  training  proved  indispensable  in  the 
Yishuv' s  efforts  after  the  war  to  force  the  British  to  withdraw  from 
Palestine. 

The  entry  of  Italy  into  the  war  in  May  1940,  which  brought  the 
war  closer  to  the  Middle  East,  convinced  Churchill  and  his  mili- 
tary advisers  that  the  immigration  provisions  of  the  White  Paper 
needed  to  be  enforced  so  as  not  to  antagonize  the  Arabs.  Thus, 
the  British  strictly  enforced  the  immigration  limits  at  a  time  when 
European  Jewry  sought  desperately  to  reach  the  shores  of  Palestine. 


47 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Despite  rising  British-Jewish  tensions,  thousands  of  Jewish  volun- 
teers served  in  the  British  army,  and  on  September  14.  1944,  the 
Jewish  Brigade  was  established. 

The  event  that  did  the  most  to  turn  the  Zionist  movement  against 
Churchill's  Britain  was  the  Struma  affair.  The  Struma,  a  ship  carry- 
ing Jewish  refugees  from  Romania,  was  denied  entry  into  Pales- 
tine, after  which  the  ship  sank  in  the  Black  Sea  leaving  all  but  two 
of  its  passengers  dead.  In  the  aftermath  of  the  loss  of  the  Struma 
in  April  1942,  young  Menachem  Begin,  then  a  soldier  in  the  Polish 
army-in-exile,  first  came  to  Palestine.  Begin  was  a  disciple  of 
Jabotinsky,  but  he  rejected  Jabotinsky's  pro-British  sympathies. 
Upon  entering  Palestine.  Begin  immediately  set  out  to  draw  together 
the  whole  underground,  including  Lehi,  in  preparation  for  a  Jew- 
ish war  of  liberation  against  the  British. 

By  1943  as  news  regarding  Nazi  persecution  of  Jews  in  Europe 
increased,  the  Irgun  and  Stern  Gang  stepped  up  harassment  of  Brit- 
ish forces  in  an  attempt  to  obtain  unrestricted  Jewish  immigration. 
In  November  1944,  Lord  Moyne,  the  British  minister-resident  in 
Cairo  and  a  close  personal  friend  of  Churchill,  was  assassinated 
by  Lehi.  Lord  Moyne 's  assassination  alienated  the  British  prime 
minister,  who  until  then  had  supported  a  Jewish  national  home 
in  Palestine.  Subsequently,  no  British  government  considered  set- 
ting up  a  Jewish  state  in  Palestine.  The  assassination  also  led  the 
Jewish  Agency's  clandestine  military  arm,  Haganah,  to  cooperate 
with  the  British  against  the  Irgun. 

Another  result  of  the  anti-Zionist  trend  in  British  policy  was  the 
Yishuv's  increasing  reliance  on  the  United  States.  In  May  1942. 
Zionist  policy  and  objectives  were  clarified  at  a  conference  of  Zionist 
parties  held  at  the  Biltmore  Hotel  in  New  York  City.  This  confer- 
ence was  called  at  the  initiative  of  Ben-Gurion.  who  had  come  to 
solicit  the  support  of  American  Jews.  Ben-Gurion  was  determined 
to  seek  a  resolution  that  Jewish  immigration  to  Palestine  and  the 
establishment  of  a  Jewish  state  would  proceed  despite  British  op- 
position. Weizmann,  who  objected  to  the  idea  of  severing  ties  with 
Britain,  was  outflanked  at  the  conference.  The  Biltmore  Program 
adopted  at  the  conference  and  approved  by  the  Zionist  General 
Council  in  November  1942  called  for  unlimited  Jewish  immigra- 
tion to  Palestine  and  control  of  immigration  by  the  Jewish  com- 
monwealth, the  word  commonwealth  thus  replacing  homeland. 

The  Holocaust 

The  impact  of  the  Holocaust  on  world  Jewry,  either  on  contem- 
poraries of  the  horror  or  on  succeeding  generations,  cannot  be 
exaggerated.  The  scope  of  Hitler's  genocidal  efforts  can  be  quickly 


48 


Historical  Setting 


summarized.  In  1939  about  10  million  of  the  estimated  16  million 
Jews  in  the  world  lived  in  Europe.  By  1945  almost  6  million  had 
been  killed,  most  of  them  in  the  nineteen  main  concentration  camps. 
Of  prewar  Czechoslovakia's  281,000  Jews,  about  4,000  survived. 
Before  the  German  conquest  and  occupation,  the  Jewish  popula- 
tion of  Greece  was  estimated  to  be  between  65,000  and  72,000; 
about  2,000  survived.  Only  5,000  of  Austria's  prewar  Jewish  com- 
munity of  70,000  escaped.  In  addition,  an  estimated  4.6  million 
Jews  were  killed  in  Poland  and  in  those  areas  of  the  Soviet  Union 
seized  and  occupied  by  the  Germans. 

The  magnitude  of  the  Holocaust  cast  a  deep  gloom  over  the  Jew- 
ish people  and  tormented  the  spirit  of  Judaism.  The  faith  of  ob- 
servant Jews  was  shaken,  and  the  hope  of  the  assimilationists 
smashed.  Not  only  had  6  million  Jews  perished,  but  the  Allies,  who 
by  1944  could  have  easily  disrupted  the  operation  of  the  death 
camps,  did  nothing.  In  this  spiritual  vacuum,  Zionism  alone 
emerged  as  a  viable  Jewish  response  to  this  demonic  anti-Semitism. 
Zionist  thinkers  since  the  days  of  Pinsker  had  made  dire  predic- 
tions concerning  the  fate  of  European  Jewry.  For  much  of  world 
Jewry  that  had  suffered  centuries  of  persecution,  Zionism  and  its 
call  for  a  Jewish  national  home  and  for  the  radical  transformation 
of  the  Jew  from  passive  victim  to  self-sufficient  citizen  residing  in 
his  own  homeland  became  the  only  possible  positive  response  to 
the  Holocaust.  Zionism  unified  the  Jewish  people,  entered  deeply 
into  the  Jewish  spirit,  and  became  an  integral  part  of  Jewish  iden- 
tity and  religious  experience. 

Prelude  to  Statehood 

The  British  position  in  Palestine  at  the  end  of  World  War  II  was 
becoming  increasingly  untenable.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  Jew- 
ish Holocaust  survivors  temporarily  housed  in  displaced  persons 
camps  in  Europe  were  clamoring  to  be  settled  in  Palestine.  The 
fate  of  these  refugees  aroused  international  public  opinion  against 
British  policy.  Moreover,  the  administration  of  President  Harry 
S  Truman,  feeling  morally  bound  to  help  the  Jewish  refugees  and 
exhorted  by  a  large  and  vocal  Jewish  community,  pressured  Brit- 
ain to  change  its  course  in  Palestine.  Postwar  Britain  depended 
on  American  economic  aid  to  reconstruct  its  war- torn  economy. 
Furthermore,  Britain's  staying  power  in  its  old  colonial  holdings 
was  waning;  in  1947  British  rule  in  India  came  to  an  end  and  Brit- 
ain informed  Washington  that  London  could  no  longer  carry  the 
military  burden  of  strengthening  Greece  and  Turkey  against  com- 
munist encroachment. 


49 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

In  May  1946,  the  Anglo-American  Committee  of  Inquiry  unani- 
mously declared  its  opposition  to  the  White  Paper  of  1939  and  pro- 
posed, among  other  recommendations,  that  the  immigration  to 
Palestine  of  100,000  European  Jews  be  authorized  at  once.  The 
British  Mandate  Authority  rejected  the  proposal,  stating  that  such 
immigration  was  impossible  while  armed  organizations  in 
Palestine — both  Arab  and  Jewish — were  fighting  the  authority  and 
disrupting  public  order. 

Despite  American,  Jewish,  and  international  pressure  and  the 
recommendations  of  the  Anglo-American  Committee  of  Inquiry, 
the  new  Labour  Party  government  of  Prime  Minister  Clement  Atlee 
and  his  foreign  minister,  Ernest  Bevin,  continued  to  enforce  the 
policy  articulated  in  the  White  Paper.  British  adamancy  on  im- 
migration radicalized  the  Yishuv.  Under  Ben-Gurion's  direction, 
the  Jewish  Agency  decided  in  October  1945  to  unite  with  Jewish 
dissident  groups  in  a  combined  rebellion  against  the  British  ad- 
ministration in  Palestine.  The  combined  Jewish  resistance  move- 
ment organized  illegal  immigration  and  kidnapping  of  British 
officials  in  Palestine  and  sabotaged  the  British  infrastructure  in 
Palestine.  In  response  Bevin  ordered  a  crackdown  on  the  Haganah 
and  arrested  many  of  its  leaders.  While  the  British  concentrated 
their  efforts  on  the  Haganah,  the  Irgun  and  Lehi  carried  out  ter- 
rorist attacks  against  British  forces,  the  most  spectacular  of  which 
was  the  bombing  of  the  King  David  Hotel  in  Jerusalem  in  July 
1946.  The  latter  event  led  Ben-Gurion  to  sever  his  relationship  with 
the  Irgun  and  Lehi. 

By  1947  Palestine  was  a  major  trouble  spot  in  the  British  Em- 
pire, requiring  some  100,000  troops  and  a  huge  maintenance  bud- 
get. On  February  18,  1947,  Bevin  informed  the  House  of  Commons 
of  the  government's  decision  to  present  the  Palestine  problem  to 
the  United  Nations  (UN).  On  May  15,  1947,  a  special  session  of 
the  UN  General  Assembly  established  the  United  Nations  Special 
Committee  on  Palestine  (UNSCOP),  consisting  of  eleven  mem- 
bers. The  UNSCOP  reported  on  August  31  that  a  majority  of  its 
members  supported  a  geographically  complex  system  of  partition 
into  separate  Arab  and  Jewish  states,  a  special  international  status 
for  Jerusalem,  and  an  economic  union  linking  the  three  members. 
Backed  by  both  the  United  States  and  the  Soviet  Union,  the  plan 
was  adopted  after  two  months  of  intense  deliberations  as  the  UN 
General  Assembly  Resolution  of  November  29,  1947.  Although 
considering  the  plan  defective  in  terms  of  their  expectations  from 
the  League  of  Nations  Mandate  twenty-five  years  earlier,  the  Zionist 
General  Council  stated  willingness  in  principle  to  accept  partition. 
The  League  of  Arab  States  (Arab  League)  Council,  meeting  in 


50 


Historical  Setting 


December  1947,  said  it  would  take  whatever  measures  were  re- 
quired to  prevent  implementation  of  the  resolution. 

Despite  the  passage  of  the  UN  partition  plan,  the  situation  in 
Palestine  in  early  1948  did  not  look  auspicious  for  the  Yishuv.  When 
the  AHC  rejected  the  plan  immediately  after  its  passage  and  called 
for  a  general  strike,  violence  between  Arabs  and  Jews  mounted. 
Many  Jewish  centers,  including  Jerusalem,  were  besieged  by  the 
Arabs.  In  January  1948,  President  Truman,  warned  by  the  United 
States  Department  of  State  that  a  Jewish  state  was  not  viable, 
reversed  himself  on  the  issue  of  Palestine,  agreeing  to  postpone 
partition  and  to  transfer  the  Mandate  to  a  trusteeship  council. 
Moreover,  the  British  forces  in  Palestine  sided  with  the  Arabs  and 
attempted  to  thwart  the  Yishuv 's  attempts  to  arm  itself. 

In  mid-March  the  Yishuv 's  military  prospects  changed  dramat- 
ically after  receiving  the  first  clandestine  shipment  of  heavy  arms 
from  Czechoslovakia.  The  Haganah  went  on  the  offensive  and, 
in  a  series  of  operations  carried  out  from  early  April  until  mid- 
May,  successfully  consolidated  and  created  communications  links 
with  those  Jewish  setdements  designated  by  the  UN  to  become  the 
Jewish  state.  In  the  meantime,  Weizmann  convinced  Truman  to 
reverse  himself  and  pledge  his  support  for  the  proposed  Jewish  state. 
In  April  1948,  the  Palestinian  Arab  community  panicked  after 
Begin' s  Irgun  killed  250  Arab  civilians  at  the  village  of  Dayr  Yasin 
near  Jerusalem.  The  news  of  Dayr  Yasin  precipitated  a  flight  of 
the  Arab  population  from  areas  with  large  Jewish  populations. 

On  May  14,  1948,  David  Ben-Gurion  proclaimed  the  establish- 
ment of  the  State  of  Israel.  On  the  following  day  Britain  relinquished 
the  Mandate  at  6:00  P.M.  and  the  United  States  announced  de 
facto  recognition  of  Israel.  Soviet  recognition  was  accorded  on 
May  18;  by  April  1949,  fifty-three  nations,  including  Britain,  had 
extended  recognition.  In  May  1949,  the  UN  General  Assembly, 
on  recommendation  of  the  Security  Council,  admitted  Israel  to  the 
UN. 

Meanwhile,  Arab  military  forces  began  their  invasion  of  Israel 
on  May  15.  Initially  these  forces  consisted  of  approximately  8,000 
to  10,000  Egyptians,  2,000  to  4,000  Iraqis,  4,000  to  5,000  Trans- 
jordanians,  3,000  to  4,000  Syrians,  1,000  to  2,000  Lebanese,  and 
smaller  numbers  of  Saudi  Arabian  and  Yemeni  troops,  about 
25,000  in  all.  Israeli  forces  composed  of  the  Haganah,  such  irreg- 
ular units  as  the  Irgun  and  the  Stern  Gang,  and  women's  aux- 
iliaries numbered  35,000  or  more.  By  October  14,  Arab  forces 
deployed  in  the  war  zones  had  increased  to  about  55,000,  includ- 
ing not  more  than  5,000  irregulars  of  Hajj  Amin  al  Husayni's  Pales- 
tine Liberation  Force.  The  Israeli  military  forces  had  increased  to 


51 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

approximately  100,000.  Except  for  the  British- trained  Arab  Legion 
of  Transjordan,  Arab  units  were  largely  ill- trained  and  inex- 
perienced. Israeli  forces,  usually  operating  with  interior  lines  of 
communication,  included  an  estimated  20,000  to  25,000  European 
World  War  II  veterans. 

By  January  1949,  Jewish  forces  held  the  area  that  was  to  define 
Israel's  territory  until  June  1967,  an  area  that  was  significantly 
larger  than  the  area  designated  by  the  UN  partition  plan.  The  part 
of  Palestine  remaining  in  Arab  hands  was  limited  to  that  held  by 
the  Arab  Legion  of  Transjordan  and  the  Gaza  area  held  by  Egypt 
at  the  cessation  of  hostilities.  The  area  held  by  the  Arab  Legion 
was  subsequently  annexed  by  Jordan  and  is  commonly  referred 
to  as  the  West  Bank  (see  Glossary).  Jerusalem  was  divided.  The 
Old  City,  the  Western  Wall  and  the  site  of  Solomon's  Temple, 
upon  which  stands  the  Muslim  mosque  called  the  Dome  of  the 
Rock,  remained  in  Jordanian  hands;  the  New  City  lay  on  the  Is- 
raeli side  of  the  line.  Although  the  West  Bank  remained  under 
Jordanian  suzerainty  until  1967,  only  two  countries — Britain  and 
Pakistan — granted  de  jure  recognition  of  the  annexation. 

Early  in  the  conflict,  on  May  29,  1948,  the  UN  Security  Coun- 
cil established  the  Truce  Commission  headed  by  a  UN  mediator, 
Swedish  diplomat  Folke  Bernadotte,  who  was  assassinated  in  Jerusa- 
lem on  September  17,  1948.  He  was  succeeded  by  Ralph  Bunche, 
an  American,  as  acting  mediator.  The  commission,  which  later 
evolved  into  the  United  Nations  Truce  Supervision  Organization- 
Palestine  (UNTSOP),  attempted  to  devise  new  settlement  plans 
and  arranged  the  truces  of  June  11 -July  8  and  July  19-October 
14,  1948.  Armistice  talks  were  initiated  with  Egypt  in  January  1949, 
and  an  armistice  agreement  was  concluded  with  Egypt  on  Febru- 
ary 24,  with  Lebanon  on  March  23,  with  Transjordan  on  April  3, 
and  with  Syria  on  July  20.  Iraq  did  not  enter  into  an  armistice 
agreement  but  withdrew  its  forces  after  turning  over  its  positions 
to  Transjordanian  units. 

Problems  of  the  New  State,  1948-67 
Etatism 

The  War  of  Independence  was  the  most  costly  war  Israel  has 
fought;  more  than  6,000  Jewish  fighters  and  civilians  died.  At  the 
war's  end  in  1949,  the  fledgling  state  was  burdened  with  a  num- 
ber of  difficult  problems.  These  included  reacting  to  the  absorp- 
tion of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  new  immigrants  and  to  a  festering 
refugee  problem  on  its  borders,  maintaining  a  defense  against  a 
hostile  and  numerically  superior  Arab  world,  keeping  a  war- torn 


52 


Historical  Setting 


economy  afloat,  and  managing  foreign  policy  alignments.  Faced 
with  such  intractable  problems,  Ben-Gurion  sought  to  ensure  a  fluid 
transition  from  existing  prestate  institutions  to  the  new  state 
apparatus.  He  announced  the  formation  of  a  Provisional  Council 
of  State,  actually  a  transformed  executive  committee  of  the  Jewish 
Agency  with  himself  as  prime  minister.  Weizmann  became  presi- 
dent of  the  council,  although  Ben-Gurion  was  careful  to  make  the 
presidency  a  distinctly  ceremonial  position.  The  provisional  govern- 
ment would  hold  elections  no  later  than  October  1948  for  the  Con- 
stituent Assembly  to  draw  up  a  formal  constitution.  The  proposed 
constitution  was  never  ratified,  however,  and  on  February  16,  1949 
the  Constituent  Assembly  became  Israel's  first  parliament  or 
Knesset  (see  Glossary). 

A  key  element  of  Ben-Gurion 's  etatism  was  the  integration  of 
Israel's  independent  military  forces  into  a  unified  military  struc- 
ture. On  May  28,  1948,  Ben-Gurion 's  provisional  government 
created  the  Israel  Defense  Forces  (IDF),  the  Hebrew  name  of  which, 
Zvah  Haganah  Le  Yisrael,  is  commonly  abbreviated  to  Zahal,  and 
prohibited  maintenance  of  any  other  armed  force.  This  proclama- 
tion was  challenged  by  the  Irgun,  which  sailed  the  Altalena,  a  ship 
carrying  arms,  into  Tel  Aviv  harbor.  Ben-Gurion  ordered  Haganah 
troops  to  fire  on  the  ship,  which  was  set  aflame  on  the  beach  in 
Tel  Aviv.  With  the  two  camps  on  the  verge  of  civil  war,  Begin, 
the  leader  of  the  Irgun,  ordered  his  troops  not  to  fire  on  the 
Haganah.  Although  the  Altalena  affair  unified  the  IDF,  it  remained 
a  bitter  memory  for  Begin  and  the  Irgun.  Begin  subsequently  con- 
verted his  armed  movement  into  a  political  party,  the  Herut  (or 
Freedom  Movement).  By  January  1949,  Ben-Gurion  had  also  dis- 
solved the  Palmach,  the  strike  force  of  the  Haganah. 

Ingathering  of  the  Exiles 

The  first  legislative  act  of  the  Provisional  Council  of  State  was 
the  Law  and  Administrative  Ordinance  of  1948  that  declared  null 
and  void  the  restrictions  on  Jewish  immigration  imposed  by  Brit- 
ish authorities.  In  July  1950,  the  Knesset  passed  the  Law  of  Return 
(see  Glossary),  which  stated  that  "Every  Jew  has  the  right  to  come 
to  this  country  as  an  olah  (new  immigrant)." 

In  1939  the  British  Mandate  Authority  had  estimated  that  about 
445,000  out  of  1.5  million  residents  of  the  Mandate  were  Jews. 
Israeli  officials  estimated  that  as  of  May  15,  1948,  about  650,000 
Jews  lived  in  the  area  scheduled  to  become  Israel  under  the  Novem- 
ber 1947  UN  partition  proposal.  Between  May  1948  and  Decem- 
ber 31,  1951,  approximately  684,000  Jewish  immigrants  entered 
the  new  state,  thus  providing  a  Jewish  majority  in  the  region  for 


53 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

the  first  time  in  the  modern  era.  The  largest  single  group  of  im- 
migrants consisted  of  Jews  from  Eastern  Europe;  more  than  300,000 
people  came  from  refugee  and  displaced  persons  camps. 

The  highly  organized  state  structure  created  by  Ben-Gurion  and 
the  old  guard  Mapai  leadership  served  the  Yishuv  well  in  the 
prestate  era,  but  was  ill  prepared  for  the  massive  influx  of  non- 
European  refugees  that  flooded  into  the  new  state  in  its  first  years 
of  existence.  Between  1948  and  1952  about  300,000  Sephardic 
immigrants  came  to  Israel.  Aside  from  120,000  highly  educated 
Iraqi  Jews  and  10,000  Egyptian  Jews,  the  majority  of  new  im- 
migrants (55,000  Turkish  Jews,  40,000  Iranian  Jews,  55,000 
Yemeni  Jews,  and  thousands  more  from  Jewish  enclaves  in  Afghan- 
istan, the  Caucasus,  and  Cochin  in  southwest  India)  were  poorly 
educated,  impoverished,  and  culturally  very  different  from  the  coun- 
try's dominant  European  culture.  They  were  religious  Jews  who 
had  worked  primarily  in  petty  trade,  while  the  ruling  Ashkena- 
zim  of  the  Labor  Party  were  secular  socialists.  As  a  result,  the 
Ashkenazim-dominated  kibbutz  movement  spurned  them,  and 
Mapai  leadership  as  a  whole  viewed  the  new  immigrants  as  "raw 
material"  for  their  socialist  program  (see  Jewish  Ethnic  Groups, 
ch.  2). 

In  the  late  1950s,  a  new  flood  of  400,000  mainly  undereducated 
Moroccan,  Algerian,  Tunisian,  and  Egyptian  Jews  immigrated  to 
Israel  following  Israel's  Sinai  Campaign  (see  1956  War,  ch.  5). 
The  total  addition  to  Israel's  population  during  the  first  twelve  years 
of  statehood  was  about  1.2  million,  and  at  least  two-thirds  of  the 
newcomers  were  of  Sephardic  extraction.  By  1961  the  Sephardic 
portion  of  the  Jewish  population  was  about  45  percent,  or  approx- 
imately 800,000  people.  By  the  end  of  the  first  decade,  about  four- 
fifths  of  the  Sephardic  population  lived  in  the  large  towns,  mostly 
development  towns,  and  cities  where  they  became  workers  in  an 
economy  dominated  by  Ashkenazim. 

Israeli  Arabs,  Arab  Land,  and  Arab  Refugees 

Events  immediately  before  and  during  the  War  of  Independence 
and  during  the  first  years  of  independence  remain,  so  far  as  those 
events  involved  the  Arab  residents  of  Palestine,  matters  of  bitter 
and  emotional  dispute.  Palestinian  Arab  refugees  insist  that  they 
were  driven  out  of  their  homeland  by  Jewish  terrorists  and  regu- 
lar Jewish  military  forces;  the  government  of  Israel  asserts  that  the 
invading  Arab  forces  urged  the  Palestinian  Arabs  to  leave  their 
houses  temporarily  to  avoid  the  perils  of  the  war  that  would 
end  the  Jewish  intrusion  into  Arab  lands.  Forty  years  after  the 


54 


Historical  Setting 


event,  advocates  of  Arabs  or  Jews  continue  to  present  and  believe 
diametrically  opposed  descriptions  of  those  events. 

According  to  British  Mandate  Authority  population  figures  in 
1947,  there  were  about  1.3  million  Arabs  in  all  of  Palestine.  Be- 
tween 700,000  and  900,000  of  the  Arabs  lived  in  the  region  even- 
tually bounded  by  the  1949  Armistice  line,  the  so-called  Green  Line. 
By  the  time  the  fighting  stopped,  there  were  only  about  170,000 
Arabs  left  in  the  new  State  of  Israel.  By  the  summer  of  1949,  about 
750,000  Palestinian  Arabs  were  living  in  squalid  refugee  camps, 
set  up  virtually  overnight  in  territories  adjacent  to  Israel's  borders. 
About  300,000  lived  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  which  was  occupied  by  the 
Egyptian  army.  Another  450,000  became  unwelcome  residents  of 
the  West  Bank  of  the  Jordan,  recently  occupied  by  the  Arab  Legion 
of  Transjordan. 

The  Arabs  who  remained  inside  post- 1948  Israel  became  citizens 
of  the  Jewish  state.  They  had  voting  rights  equal  to  the  state's  Jewish 
community,  and  according  to  Israel's  Declaration  of  Independence 
were  guaranteed  social  and  political  equality.  Because  Israel's  parlia- 
ment has  never  passed  a  constitution,  however,  Arab  rights  in  the 
Jewish  state  have  remained  precarious  (see  Minority  Groups,  ch.  2; 
Arab  Parties,  ch.  4).  Israel's  Arab  residents  were  seen  both  by  Jew- 
ish Israelis  and  by  themselves  as  aliens  in  a  foreign  country.  They 
had  been  waging  war  since  the  1920s  against  Zionism  and  could 
not  be  expected  to  accept  enthusiastically  residence  in  the  Jewish 
state.  The  institutions  of  the  new  state  were  designed  to  facilitate 
the  growth  of  the  Jewish  nation,  which  in  many  instances  entailed 
a  perceived  infringement  upon  Arab  rights.  Thus,  Arab  land  was 
confiscated  to  make  way  for  Jewish  immigrants,  the  Hebrew  lan- 
guage and  Judaism  predominated  over  Arabic  and  Islam,  foreign 
economic  aid  poured  into  the  Jewish  economy  while  Arab  agricul- 
ture and  business  received  only  meager  assistance,  and  Israeli  secu- 
rity concerns  severely  restricted  the  Arabs'  freedom  of  movement. 

After  independence  the  areas  in  which  90  percent  of  the  Arabs 
lived  were  placed  under  military  government.  This  system  and  the 
assignment  of  almost  unfettered  powers  to  military  governors  were 
based  on  the  Defense  (Emergency)  Regulations  promulgated  by 
the  British  Mandate  Authority  in  1945.  Using  the  1945  regulations 
as  a  legal  base,  the  government  created  three  areas  or  zones  to  be 
ruled  by  the  Ministry  of  Defense.  The  most  important  was  the 
Northern  Area,  also  known  as  the  Galilee  Area,  the  locale  of  about 
two-thirds  of  the  Arab  population.  The  second  critical  area  was 
the  so-called  Little  Triangle,  located  between  the  villages  of  Et  Tira 
and  Et  Taiyiba  near  the  border  with  Jordan  (then  Transjordan). 


55 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

The  third  area  included  much  of  the  Negev  Desert,  the  region 
traversed  by  the  previously  apolitical  nomadic  beduins. 

The  most  salient  feature  of  military  government  was  restriction 
of  movement.  Article  125  of  the  Defense  (Emergency)  Regulations 
empowered  military  governors  to  declare  any  specified  area  "off- 
limits"  to  those  having  no  written  authorization.  The  area  was  then 
declared  a  security  zone  and  thus  closed  to  Israeli  Arabs  who  lacked 
written  permission  either  from  the  army  chief  of  staff  or  the  minister 
of  defense.  Under  these  provisions,  93  out  of  104  Arab  villages  in 
Israel  were  constituted  as  closed  areas  out  of  which  no  one  could 
move  without  a  military  permit.  In  these  areas,  official  acts  of  mili- 
tary governors  were,  with  rare  exceptions,  not  subject  to  review 
by  the  civil  courts.  Individuals  could  be  arrested  and  imprisoned 
on  unspecified  charges,  and  private  property  was  subject  to  search 
and  seizure  without  warrant.  Furthermore,  the  physical  expulsion 
of  individuals  or  groups  from  the  state  was  not  subject  to  review 
by  the  civil  courts. 

Another  land  expropriation  measure  evolved  from  the  Defense 
(Emergency)  Regulations,  which  were  passed  in  1949  and  renewed 
annually  until  1972  when  the  legislation  was  allowed  to  lapse.  Under 
this  law,  the  Ministry  of  Defense  could,  subject  to  approval  by  an 
appropriate  committee  of  the  Knesset,  create  security  zones  in  all 
or  part  of  what  was  designated  as  the  "protected  zone,"  an  area 
that  included  lands  adjacent  to  Israel's  borders  and  other  speci- 
fied areas.  According  to  Sabri  Jiryis,  an  Arab  political  economist 
who  based  his  work  exclusively  on  Israeli  government  sources,  the 
defense  minister  used  this  law  to  categorize  "almost  half  of  Galilee, 
all  of  the  Triangle,  an  area  near  the  Gaza  Strip,  and  another  along 
the  Jerusalem-Jaffa  railway  line  near  Batir  as  security  zones."  A 
clause  of  the  law  provided  that  permanent  as  well  as  temporary 
residents  could  be  required  to  leave  the  zone  and  that  the  individual 
expelled  had  four  days  within  which  to  appeal  the  eviction  notice 
to  an  appeals  committee.  The  decisions  of  these  committees  were 
not  subject  to  review  or  appeal  by  a  civil  court. 

Yet  another  measure  enacted  by  the  Knesset  in  1949  was  the 
Emergency  Regulations  (Cultivation  of  Waste  Lands)  Ordinance. 
One  use  of  this  law  was  to  transfer  to  kibbutzim  or  other  Jewish 
settlements  land  in  the  security  zones  that  was  lying  fallow  because 
the  owner  of  the  land  or  other  property  was  not  allowed  to  enter 
the  zone  as  a  result  of  national  security  legislation.  The  1949  law 
provided  that  such  land  transfers  were  valid  only  for  a  period  of 
two  years  and  eleven  months,  but  subsequent  amending  legisla- 
tion extended  the  validity  of  the  transfers  for  the  duration  of  the 
state  of  emergency. 


56 


Historical  Setting 


Another  common  procedure  was  for  the  military  government 
to  seize  up  to  40  percent  of  the  land  in  a  given  region — the  maxi- 
mum allowed  for  national  security  reasons — and  to  transfer  the  land 
to  a  new  kibbutz  or  moshav  (see  Glossary).  Between  1948  and  1953, 
about  370  new  Jewish  settlements  were  built,  and  an  estimated  350 
of  the  settlements  were  established  on  what  was  termed  abandoned 
Arab  property. 

The  property  of  the  Arabs  who  were  refugees  outside  the  state 
and  the  property  expropriated  from  the  Arabs  who  remained  in 
Israel  became  a  major  asset  to  the  new  state.  According  to  Don 
Peretz,  an  American  scholar,  by  1954  "more  than  one-third  of 
Israel's  Jewish  population  lived  on  absentee  property,  and  nearly 
a  third  of  the  new  immigrants  (250,000  people)  settied  in  the  urban 
areas  abandoned  by  Arabs."  The  fleeing  Arabs  emptied  thriving 
cities  such  as  Jaffa,  Acre  (Akko),  Lydda  (Lod),  and  Ramla,  plus 
"338  towns  and  villages  and  large  parts  of  94  other  cities  and  towns, 
containing  nearly  a  quarter  of  all  the  buildings  in  Israel." 

To  the  Israeli  Arabs,  one  of  the  more  devastating  aspects  of  the 
loss  of  their  property  was  their  knowledge  that  the  loss  was  legally 
irreversible.  The  early  Zionist  settlers — particularly  those  of  the 
Second  Aliyah — adopted  a  rigid  policy  that  land  purchased  or  in 
any  way  acquired  by  a  Jewish  organization  or  individual  could  never 
again  be  sold,  leased,  or  rented  to  a  non-Jew.  The  policy  went  so 
far  as  to  preclude  the  use  of  non -Jewish  labor  on  the  land.  This 
policy  was  carried  over  into  the  new  state.  At  independence  the 
State  of  Israel  succeeded  to  the  "state  lands"  of  the  British  Man- 
date Authority,  which  had  "inherited"  the  lands  held  by  the  govern- 
ment of  the  Ottoman  Empire.  The  Jewish  National  Fund  was  the 
operating  and  controlling  agency  of  the  Land  Development  Author- 
ity and  ensured  that  land  once  held  by  Jews — either  individually 
or  by  the  "sovereign  state  of  the  Jewish  people" — did  not  revert 
to  non-Jews.  This  denied  Israel's  non-Jewish,  mostly  Arab,  popu- 
lation access  to  about  95  percent  of  the  land. 

The  Emergence  of  the  IDF 

In  February  1950,  the  Israeli  government  had  discreetly  nego- 
tiated a  draft  treaty  with  King  Abdullah  of  Transjordan,  includ- 
ing a  five-year  nonaggression  pact,  open  borders,  and  free  access 
to  the  port  of  Haifa.  In  April  Abdullah  annexed  the  West  Bank 
and  East  Jerusalem,  thus  creating  the  united  Hashemite  Kingdom 
of  Jordan.  Ben-Gurion  acquiesced  because  he  thought  this  would 
mean  an  end  to  independent  claims  on  Israeli  territory  and  material 
claims  on  confiscated  Arab  territory.  Abdullah,  however,  was  assas- 
sinated in  July  1951 .  Moreover,  Israel  was  boycotted  by  all  its  Arab 


57 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

neighbors,  and  from  the  end  of  1951  the  Suez  Canal  and  the  Strait 
of  Tiran  (at  the  southern  end  of  the  Gulf  of  Aqaba,  where  it  opens 
into  the  Red  Sea)  were  closed  to  Israeli  shipping. 

Surrounded  by  enemies  and  having  to  integrate  thousands  of 
immigrants  into  the  new  state,  Ben-Gurion  attempted  to  make  the 
IDF  the  new  unifying  symbol  of  the  fledgling  state.  He  realized 
that  the  socialism  of  the  Histadrut  was  ill  suited  to  solving  the 
problems  facing  the  new  state.  Above  all,  Israel  needed  a  unity 
of  purpose,  which  in  Ben-Gurion 's  thinking  could  only  be  provided 
by  a  strong  army  that  would  defend  the  country  against  its  ene- 
mies and  help  assimilate  its  culturally  diverse  immigrants.  Thus, 
Ben-Gurion  added  to  the  socialist  ethos  of  the  Histadrut  and  kib- 
butz movements  an  aggressive  Israeli  nationalism  spearheaded  by 
the  IDF.  To  carry  out  this  new  orientation,  he  cultivated  a  "new 
guard"  Mapai  leadership  headed  by  dynamic  young  General 
Moshe  Dayan  and  technocrat  Shimon  Peres.  Throughout  the  1950s 
and  early  1960s  the  Dayan-Peres  supporters  in  Mapai  and  the  "old 
guard"  Labor  establishment  would  compete  for  power  (see  Multi- 
party System,  ch.  4). 

In  November  1953,  Ben-Gurion  tendered  his  resignation,  and 
the  less  militaristic  Moshe  Sharett  took  over  as  prime  minister. 
Under  Sharett 's  weaker  leadership,  the  conflict  between  the  old- 
guard  Mapai  leadership  and  Ben-Gurion' s  new  technocratic  elite 
festered  openly.  This  led  to  a  major  scandal  in  the  Labor  Party 
called  the  Lavon  affair.  Defense  Minister  Pinchas  Lavon,  an  im- 
portant figure  in  the  old  guard,  had  authorized  intelligence  chief 
Benjamin  Gibly  to  launch  Israeli  spy  rings  in  Cairo  and  Alexan- 
dria in  an  attempt  to  embarrass  Egyptian  president  Gamal  Abdul 
Nasser.  The  Egyptians,  however,  caught  and  later  executed  the 
spies,  and  the  affair  proved  to  be  a  major  embarrassment  to  the 
Israeli  government.  The  commission  authorized  to  investigate  the 
affair  became  embroiled  in  a  test  of  strength  between  the  young 
military  establishment — including  Dayan  and  Peres — and  the 
Mapai  old  guard,  whose  support  Lavon  solicited. 

In  February  1955,  Ben-Gurion  returned  to  the  Ministry  of 
Defense,  and  with  the  malleable  Sharett  still  as  prime  minister  was 
able  to  promote  his  hard-line  defense  policy.  This  position  resulted 
in  a  number  of  raids  against  the  Egyptians  in  response  to  attacks 
on  Israeli  settlements  originating  from  Egyptian-held  territory.  Sub- 
sequently, Ben-Gurion  was  restored  to  leadership  of  the  Mapai 
government.  At  this  time,  his  biggest  concern  was  the  rising  power 
of  Nasser.  By  October  1955,  Nasser  had  signed  an  agreement  to 
buy  arms  from  the  Soviet  Union  and  Czechoslovakia,  while  Presi- 
dent Dwight  D.  Eisenhower  refused  to  supply  Israel  with  weapons. 


58 


Old  city  gate  of  Jaffa, 
outside  Tel  Aviv 
Courtesy  Les  Vogel 


Ben-Gurion  sought  to  inflict  a  mortal  blow  on  the  Egyptian  re- 
gime. Because  Nasser  threatened  Western  interests  in  the  Suez 
Canal,  Ben-Gurion  entered  into  secret  talks  with  Britain  and  France 
about  the  possibility  of  Israel  striking  at  the  Sinai  Peninsula,  while 
Britain  and  France  moved  in  on  the  Suez  Canal,  ostensibly  to  help 
protect  Western  shipping  from  combat.  In  late  October,  the  IDF 
routed  the  Egyptian  army  at  Gaza  and  after  a  week  pushed  to  the 
Gidi  and  Mitla  passes.  On  November  5,  1956,  the  French  and  Brit- 
ish took  over  the  Suez  Canal  area.  After  intense  pressure  from  the 
Eisenhower  administration,  which  was  worried  about  the  threat 
of  Soviet  military  involvement,  the  European  powers  acceded  to 
a  cease-fire. 

In  March  1957,  Israeli  troops  were  forced  to  withdraw.  The  war 
served  to  spur  Ben-Gurion 's  drive  toward  greater  militarization. 
Although  Israel  was  forced  to  withdraw  from  Sinai,  Ben-Gurion 
deemed  the  war  a  success:  the  raids  from  Gaza  ceased,  UN  peace- 
keeping forces  separated  Egypt  and  Israel,  greater  cooperation  with 
France  led  to  more  arms  sales  to  Israel  and  the  building  of  a  nuclear 
reactor,  and,  most  important,  the  army's  near-perfect  performance 
vindicated  his  view  on  the  centrality  of  the  IDF. 

1967  and  Afterward 

By  the  spring  of  1967,  Nasser's  waning  prestige,  escalating 
Syrian-Israeli  tensions,  and  the  emergence  of  Levi  Eshkol  as  prime 


59 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

minister  set  the  stage  for  the  third  Arab-Israeli  war.  Throughout 
the  1950s  and  early  1960s,  Nasser  was  the  fulcrum  of  Arab  poli- 
tics. Nasser's  success,  however,  was  shortlived;  his  union  with  Syria 
fell  apart,  a  revolutionary  government  in  Iraq  proved  to  be  a  com- 
petitor for  power,  and  Egypt  became  embroiled  in  a  debilitating 
civil  war  in  Yemen.  After  1964,  when  Israel  began  diverting  waters 
(of  the  Jordan  River)  originating  in  the  Golan  Heights  for  its  new 
National  Water  Carrier,  Syria  built  its  own  diverting  facility,  which 
the  IDF  frequently  attacked.  Finally,  in  1963,  Ben-Gurion  stepped 
down  and  the  more  cautious  Levi  Eshkol  became  prime  minister, 
giving  the  impression  that  Israel  would  be  less  willing  to  engage 
the  Arab  world  in  hostilities. 

On  April  6,  1967,  Israeli  jet  fighters  shot  down  six  Syrian  planes 
over  the  Golan  Heights,  which  led  to  a  further  escalation  of  Israeli- 
Syrian  tensions.  The  Soviet  Union,  wanting  to  involve  Egypt  as 
a  deterrent  to  an  Israeli  initiative  against  Syria,  misinformed  Nasser 
on  May  13  that  the  Israelis  were  planning  to  attack  Syria  on  May  17 
and  that  they  had  already  concentrated  eleven  to  thirteen  brigades 
on  the  Syrian  border  for  this  purpose.  In  response  Nasser  put  his 
armed  forces  in  a  state  of  maximum  alert,  sent  combat  troops  into 
Sinai,  notified  UN  Secretary  General  U  Thant  of  his  decision  "to 
terminate  the  existence  of  the  United  Nations  Emergency  Force 
(UNEF)  on  United  Arab  Republic  (UAR)  soil  and  in  the  Gaza 
Strip,"  and  announced  the  closure  of  the  Strait  of  Tiran. 

The  Eshkol  government,  to  avoid  the  international  pressure  that 
forced  Israel  to  retreat  in  1956,  sent  Foreign  Minister  Abba  Eban 
to  Europe  and  the  United  States  to  convince  Western  leaders  to 
pressure  Nasser  into  reversing  his  course.  In  Israel,  Eshkol's  diplo- 
matic waiting  game  and  Nasser's  threatening  rhetoric  created  a 
somber  mood.  To  reassure  the  public,  Moshe  Dayan,  the  hero  of 
the  1956  Sinai  Campaign,  was  appointed  minister  of  defense  and 
a  National  Unity  Government  was  formed,  which  for  the  first  time 
included  Begin' s  Herut  Party,  the  dominant  element  in  Gahal. 

The  actual  fighting  was  over  almost  before  it  began;  the  Israeli 
Air  Corps  on  June  5  destroyed  nearly  the  entire  Egyptian  Air  Force 
on  the  ground.  King  Hussein  of  Jordan,  misinformed  by  Nasser 
about  Egyptian  losses,  authorized  Jordanian  artillery  to  fire  on 
Jerusalem.  Subsequently,  both  the  Jordanians  in  the  east  and  the 
Syrians  in  the  north  were  quickly  defeated. 

The  June  1967  War  was  a  watershed  event  in  the  history  of  Israel 
and  the  Middle  East.  After  only  six  days  of  fighting,  Israel  had 
radically  altered  the  political  map  of  the  region.  By  June  13,  Israeli 
forces  had  captured  the  Golan  Heights  from  Syria,  Sinai  and  the 
Gaza  Strip  from  Egypt,  and  all  of  Jerusalem  and  the  West  Bank 


60 


Historical  Setting 


from  Jordan.  The  new  territories  more  than  doubled  the  size  of 
pre- 1967  Israel,  placing  under  Israel's  control  more  than  1  mil- 
lion Palestinian  Arabs.  In  Israel,  the  ease  of  the  victory,  the  ex- 
pansion of  the  state's  territory,  and  the  reuniting  of  Jerusalem,  the 
holiest  place  in  Judaism,  permanently  altered  political  discourse. 
In  the  Arab  camp,  the  war  significantly  weakened  Nasserism,  and 
led  to  the  emergence  of  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization 
(PLO)  as  the  leading  representative  of  the  Palestinian  people  and 
effective  player  in  Arab  politics. 

The  heroic  performance  of  the  IDF  and  especially  the  capture 
of  Jerusalem  unleashed  a  wave  of  religious  nationalism  through- 
out Israel.  The  war  was  widely  viewed  in  Israel  as  a  vindication 
of  political  Zionism;  the  defenseless  Jew  of  the  shtetl  (the  typical 
Jewish  town  or  village  of  the  Pale  of  Settlement),  oppressed  by  the 
tsar  and  slaughtered  by  the  Nazis,  had  become  the  courageous  sol- 
dier of  the  IDF,  who  in  the  face  of  Arab  hostility  and  superpower 
apathy  had  won  a  miraculous  victory.  After  2,000  years  of  exile, 
the  Jews  now  possessed  all  of  historic  Palestine,  including  a  united 
Jerusalem.  The  secular  messianism  that  had  been  Zionism's  creed 
since  its  formation  in  the  late  1800s  was  now  supplanted  by  a 
religious-territorial  messianism  whose  major  objective  was  secur- 
ing the  unity  of  Eretz  Yisrael.  In  the  process,  the  ethos  of  Labor 
Zionism,  which  had  been  on  the  decline  throughout  the  1960s,  was 
overshadowed. 

In  the  midst  of  the  nationalist  euphoria  that  followed  the  war, 
talk  of  exchanging  newly  captured  territories  for  peace  had  little 
public  appeal.  The  Eshkol  government  followed  a  two-track  pol- 
icy with  respect  to  the  territories,  which  would  be  continued  under 
future  Labor  governments:  on  the  one  hand,  it  stated  a  willing- 
ness to  negotiate,  while  on  the  other,  it  laid  plans  to  create  Jewish 
settlements  in  the  disputed  territories.  Thus,  immediately  follow- 
ing the  war,  Eshkol  issued  a  statement  that  he  was  willing  to  negoti- 
ate "everything"  for  a  full  peace,  which  would  include  free  passage 
through  the  Suez  Canal  and  the  Strait  of  Tiran  and  a  solution  to 
the  refugee  problem  in  the  context  of  regional  cooperation.  This 
was  followed  in  November  1967  by  his  acceptance  of  UN  Security 
Council  Resolution  242,  which  called  for  "withdrawal  of  Israeli 
armed  forces  from  territories  occupied  in  the  recent  conflict"  in 
exchange  for  Arab  acceptance  of  Israel.  Concurrently,  on  Septem- 
ber 24,  Eshkol' s  government  announced  plans  for  the  resettlement 
of  the  Old  City  of  Jerusalem,  of  the  Etzion  Bloc — kibbutzim  on 
the  Bethlehem-Hebron  road  wiped  out  by  Palestinians  in  the  war 
of  1948 — and  for  kibbutzim  in  the  northern  sector  of  the  Golan 
Heights.  Plans  were  also  unveiled  for  new  neighborhoods  around 


61 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Jerusalem,  near  the  old  buildings  of  Hebrew  University,  and  near 
the  Hadassah  Hospital  on  Mount  Scopus. 

The  Arab  states,  however,  rejected  outright  any  negotiations  with 
the  Jewish  state.  At  Khartoum,  Sudan,  in  the  summer  of  1967, 
the  Arab  states  unanimously  adopted  their  famous  "three  nos": 
no  peace  with  Israel,  no  recognition  of  Israel,  no  negotiation  with 
Israel  concerning  any  Palestinian  territory.  The  stridency  of  the 
Khartoum  resolution,  however,  masked  important  changes  that  the 
June  1967  War  caused  in  inter- Arab  politics.  At  Khartoum,  Nasser 
pledged  to  stop  destabilizing  the  region  and  launching  acerbic 
propaganda  attacks  against  the  Persian  Gulf  monarchies  in  ex- 
change for  badly  needed  economic  assistance.  This  meant  that 
Egypt,  along  with  the  other  Arab  states,  would  focus  on  consolidat- 
ing power  at  home  and  on  pressing  economic  problems  rather  than 
on  revolutionary  unity  schemes.  After  1967  Arab  regimes  increas- 
ingly viewed  Israel  and  the  Palestinian  problem  not  as  the  key  to 
revolutionary  change  of  the  Arab  state  system,  but  in  terms  of  how 
they  affected  domestic  political  stability.  The  Palestinians,  who  since 
the  late  1940s  had  looked  to  the  Arab  countries  to  defeat  Israel  and 
regain  their  homeland,  were  radicalized  by  the  1967  defeat.  The 
PLO — an  umbrella  organization  of  Palestinian  resistance  groups 
led  by  Yasir  Arafat's  Al  Fatah — moved  to  the  forefront  of  Arab 
resistance  against  Israel.  Recruits  and  money  poured  in,  and 
throughout  1968  Palestinian  guerrillas  launched  a  number  of  border 
raids  on  Israel  that  added  to  the  organization's  popularity.  The 
fedayeen  (Arab  guerrillas)  attacks  brought  large-scale  Israeli  retali- 
ation, which  the  Arab  states  were  not  capable  of  counteracting. 
The  tension  between  Arab  states'  interests  and  the  more  revolu- 
tionary aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  resistance  foreshadowed  a 
major  inter- Arab  political  conflict. 

The  War  of  Attrition 

The  tarnished  legitimacy  of  the  Arab  states  following  the  June 
1967  War  was  especially  poignant  in  Egypt.  Israeli  troops  were 
situated  on  the  east  bank  of  the  Suez  Canal,  the  canal  was  closed 
to  shipping,  and  Israel  was  occupying  a  large  piece  of  Egyptian 
territory.  Nasser  responded  by  maintaining  a  constant  state  of  mili- 
tary activity  along  the  canal — the  so-called  War  of  Attrition — 
between  February  1969  and  August  1970.  Given  the  wide  disparity 
in  the  populations  of  Israel  and  Egypt,  Israel  could  not  long  toler- 
ate trading  casualties  with  the  Egyptians.  The  Israeli  government, 
now  led  by  Golda  Meir,  pursued  a  policy  of  "asymmetrical 
response" — retaliation  on  a  scale  far  exceeding  any  individual 
attack. 


62 


Historical  Setting 


As  the  tension  along  the  Egyptian  border  continued  to  heat, 
United  States  secretary  of  state  William  Rogers  proposed  a  new 
peace  plan.  In  effect,  the  Rogers  Plan  was  an  interpretation  of  UN 
Security  Council  Resolution  242;  it  called  for  the  international  fron- 
tier between  Egypt  and  Israel  to  be  the  secure  and  recognized  border 
between  the  two  countries.  There  would  be  "a  formal  state  of  peace 
between  the  two,  negotiations  on  Gaza  and  Sharm  ash  Shaykh, 
and  demilitarized  zones."  In  November  Israel  rejected  the  offer, 
and  in  January  1970  Israeli  fighter  planes  made  their  first  deep 
penetration  into  Egypt. 

Following  the  Israeli  attack,  Nasser  went  to  Moscow  request- 
ing advanced  surface-to-air  missiles  (SAMs)  and  other  military 
equipment.  After  some  wavering,  the  Kremlin  committed  itself  to 
modernizing  and  retraining  the  Egyptian  military.  Egypt's  new 
Soviet-made  arsenal  threatened  to  alter  the  regional  military  balance 
with  Israel.  The  tension  in  Israeli-Soviet  relations  escalated  in  July 
1970,  when  Israeli  fighter  planes  shot  down  four  Egyptian  planes 
flown  by  Soviet  pilots  about  thirty  kilometers  west  of  the  canal. 
Fearing  Soviet  retaliation,  and  uncertain  of  American  support, 
Israel  in  August  accepted  a  cease-fire  and  the  application  of  Reso- 
lution 242. 

Following  the  June  1967  War,  the  PLO  established  in  Jordan 
its  major  base  of  operations  for  the  war  against  Israel.  Through- 
out the  late  1960s,  a  cycle  of  Palestinian  guerrilla  attacks  followed 
by  Israeli  retaliatory  raids  against  Jordan  caused  much  damage 
to  Jordan.  In  September  1970,  after  militant  factions  of  the  PLO 
(who  previously  had  stated  that  "the  road  to  Tel  Aviv  lies  through 
Amman")  hijacked  four  foreign  planes  and  forced  them  to  land 
in  Jordan,  King  Hussein  decided  it  was  time  to  act.  Throughout 
September  the  Jordanian  military  launched  an  attack  to  push  the 
PLO  out  of  Jordan.  Jordan's  attack  on  the  PLO  led  to  an  escala- 
tion of  Syrian-Israeli  tensions.  It  was  widely  believed  in  Washing- 
ton that  deployment  of  Israeli  troops  along  the  Jordan  River  had 
deterred  a  large-scale  Syrian  invasion  of  Jordan.  As  a  result,  Presi- 
dent Richard  M.  Nixon  increasingly  viewed  Israel  as  an  impor- 
tant strategic  asset,  and  the  Rogers  Plan  was  allowed  to  die. 

While  negotiating  a  cease-fire  to  the  conflict  in  Jordan,  Nasser 
died  of  a  heart  attack.  The  new  Egyptian  president,  Anwar  as  Sadat, 
quickly  realized,  just  as  Nasser  had  toward  the  end  of  his  life,  that 
Egypt's  acute  economic  and  social  problems  were  more  pressing 
than  the  conflict  with  Israel.  Sadat  believed  that  by  making  peace 
with  Israel  Egypt  could  reduce  its  huge  defense  burden  and  obtain 
desperately  needed  American  financial  assistance.  He  realized, 
however,  that  before  some  type  of  arrangement  with  Israel  could 


63 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

be  reached,  Egypt  would  have  to  regain  the  territory  lost  to  Israel 
in  the  June  1967  War.  To  achieve  these  ends,  Sadat  launched  a 
diplomatic  initiative  as  early  as  1971,  aimed  at  exchanging  territory 
for  peace.  On  February  4,  1971,  he  told  the  Egyptian  parliament: 

that  if  Israel  withdrew  her  forces  in  Sinai  to  the  passes  I  would 
be  willing  to  reopen  the  Suez  Canal;  to  have  my  forces  cross 
to  the  east  bank  ...  to  make  a  solemn  declaration  of  a  cease- 
fire; to  restore  diplomatic  relations  with  the  United  States  and 
to  sign  a  peace  agreement  with  Israel  through  the  efforts  of 
Dr.  Jarring,  the  representative  of  the  Secretary  General  of 
the  United  Nations. 

Sadat's  peace  initiative,  similar  to  the  Rogers  Plan,  was  not 
warmly  received  in  Israel.  Prime  Minister  Golda  Meir  stated  un- 
equivocally that  Israel  would  never  return  to  the  prewar  borders. 
She  also  commissioned  the  establishment  of  a  settlement  on  occupied 
Egyptian  territory  at  Yamit,  near  the  Gaza  Strip.  Her  rejection 
of  the  Egyptian  offer  reflected  the  hawkish  but  also  complacent 
politico-military  strategy  that  had  guided  Israeli  policy  after  the 
June  1967  War.  Advised  by  Minister  of  Defense  General  Moshe 
Day  an  and  ambassador  to  Washington  General  Yitzhak  Rabin, 
the  Meir  government  held  that  the  IDF's  preponderance  of  power, 
the  disarray  of  the  Arab  world,  and  the  large  buffer  provided  by 
Sinai,  the  West  Bank,  and  the  Golan  Heights  would  deter  the  Arab 
states  from  launching  an  attack  against  Israel.  Therefore,  the  Israeli 
government  perceived  no  compelling  reason  to  trade  territory  for 
peace.  This  view  had  wide  Israeli  public  support  as  a  result  of  a 
growing  settler  movement  in  the  occupied  territories,  a  spate  of 
Arab  terrorist  attacks  that  hardened  public  opinion  against  com- 
promise with  the  Arabs,  and  the  widespread  feeling  that  the  Arab 
states  were  incapable  of  launching  a  successful  attack  on  Israel. 
Israel's  complacency  concerning  an  Arab  attack  was  bolstered  in 
July  1972  by  Sadat's  surprise  announcement  that  he  was  expel- 
ling most  Soviet  military  advisers. 

The  October  1973  War 

The  Meir  government's  rejection  of  Sadat's  peace  overtures  con- 
vinced the  Egyptian  president  that  to  alter  the  status  quo  and  gain 
needed  legitimacy  at  home  he  must  initiate  a  war  with  limited  ob- 
jectives. On  Yom  Kippur,  the  Jewish  Day  of  Atonement,  Octo- 
ber 6,  1973,  Syria  and  Egypt  launched  a  surprise  attack  against 
Israel.  In  the  south,  waves  of  Egyptian  infantrymen  crossed  the 
Suez  Canal  and  overran  the  defense  of  the  much  touted  Bar-Lev 
Line.  In  the  north,  Syrian  forces  outnumbering  the  Israeli  defenders 


64 


Palestinian  women  in  traditional  dress  selling  produce 
at  an  outdoor  market  in  the  occupied  West  Bank 
Courtesy  Palestine  Perspectives 

(1,100  Syrian  tanks  against  157  Israeli  tanks)  reached  the  outer 
perimeter  of  the  Golan  Heights  overlooking  the  Hula  Basin.  In 
the  first  few  days  of  the  war,  Israeli  counterattacks  failed,  Israel 
suffered  hundreds  of  casualties,  and  lost  nearly  150  planes.  Finally, 
on  October  10  the  tide  of  the  war  turned;  the  Syrians  were  driven 
out  of  all  territories  conquered  by  them  at  the  beginning  of  the  war 
and  on  the  following  day  Israeli  forces  advanced  into  Syria  proper, 
about  twenty  kilometers  from  the  outskirts  of  Damascus.  The  Soviet 
Union  responded  by  making  massive  airlifts  to  Damascus  and 
Cairo,  which  were  matched  by  equally  large  United  States  airlifts 
to  Israel.  In  the  south,  an  Egyptian  offensive  into  Sinai  was  repelled, 
and  Israeli  forces  led  by  General  Ariel  Sharon  crossed  the  canal 
to  surround  the  Egyptian  Third  Army.  At  the  urgent  request  of 
the  Soviet  Union,  United  States  Secretary  of  State  Henry  Kissinger 
went  to  Moscow  to  negotiate  a  cease-fire  arrangement.  This  ar- 
rangement found  expression  in  UN  Security  Council  Resolu- 
tion 338,  which  called  for  a  cease-fire  to  be  in  place  within  twelve 
hours,  for  the  implementation  of  Resolution  242,  and  for  "negoti- 
ations between  the  parties  concerned  under  appropriate  auspices 
aimed  at  establishing  a  just  and  durable  peace  in  the  Middle  East." 
Following  Kissinger's  return  to  Washington,  the  Soviets  announced 
that  Israel  had  broken  the  terms  of  the  cease-fire  and  was  threatening 


65 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


to  destroy  the  besieged  Egyptian  Third  Army.  Soviet  leader  Leonid 
Brezhnev  informed  Nixon  that  if  the  siege  were  not  lifted  the  Soviet 
Union  would  take  unilateral  steps.  The  United  States  pressured 
Israel,  and  the  final  cease-fire  took  effect  on  October  25. 

The  October  1973  War  had  a  devastating  effect  on  Israel.  More 
than  6,000  troops  had  been  killed  or  wounded  in  eighteen  days  of 
fighting.  The  loss  of  equipment  and  the  decline  of  production  and 
exports  as  a  consequence  of  mobilization  came  to  nearly  US$7  bil- 
lion, the  equivalent  of  Israel's  gross  national  product  (GNP — see 
Glossary)  for  an  entire  year.  Most  important,  the  image  of  an  in- 
vincible Israel  that  had  prevailed  since  the  June  1967  War  was  de- 
stroyed forever.  Whereas  the  June  1967  War  had  given  Israel  in 
general  and  the  declining  Labor  Party  in  particular  a  badly  needed 
morale  booster,  the  events  of  October  1973  shook  the  country's 
self-confidence  and  cast  a  shadow  over  the  competence  of  the  Labor 
elite.  A  war- weary  public  was  especially  critical  of  Minister  of 
Defense  Dayan,  who  nonetheless  escaped  criticism  in  the  report 
of  the  Agranat  Commission,  a  body  established  after  the  war  to 
determine  responsibility  for  Israel's  military  unpreparedness. 

Israel's  vulnerability  during  the  war  led  to  another  important 
development:  its  increasing  dependence  on  United  States  military, 
economic,  and  diplomatic  aid.  The  war  set  off  a  spiraling  regional 
arms  race  in  which  Israel  was  hard  pressed  to  match  the  Arab  states, 
which  were  enriched  by  skyrocketing  world  oil  prices.  The  vastly 
improved  Arab  arsenals  forced  Israel  to  spend  increasingly  on 
defense,  straining  its  already  strapped  economy.  The  emergence 
of  Arab  oil  as  a  political  weapon  further  isolated  Israel  in  the  world 
community.  The  Arab  oil  boycott  that  accompanied  the  war  and 
the  subsequent  quadrupling  of  world  oil  prices  dramatized  the 
West's  dependence  on  Arab  oil  production.  Evidence  of  this  de- 
pendence was  reflected,  for  example,  in  the  denial  of  permission 
during  the  fighting  for  United  States  transport  planes  carrying 
weapons  to  Israel  to  land  anywhere  in  Europe  except  Portugal. 

The  dominant  personality  in  the  postwar  settlement  period  was 
Kissinger.  Kissinger  believed  that  the  combination  of  Israel's  in- 
creased dependence  on  the  United  States  and  Sadat's  desire  to  por- 
tray the  war  as  an  Egyptian  victory  and  regain  Sinai  allowed  for 
an  American-brokered  settlement.  The  key  to  this  diplomatic  stra- 
tegy was  that  only  Washington  could  induce  a  vulnerable  Israel 
to  exchange  territories  for  peace  in  the  south. 

The  first  direct  Israeli-Egyptian  talks  following  the  war  were  held 
at  Kilometer  101  on  the  Cairo- Suez  road.  They  dealt  with  stabilizing 
the  cease-fire  and  supplying  Egypt's  surrounded  Third  Army.  Fol- 
lowing these  talks,  Kissinger  began  his  highly  publicized  "shuttle 


66 


Historical  Setting 


diplomacy,"  moving  between  Jerusalem  and  the  Arab  capitals  try- 
ing to  work  out  an  agreement.  In  January  1974,  Kissinger,  along 
with  Sadat  and  Dayan,  devised  the  First  Sinai  Disengagement 
Agreement,  which  called  for  thinning  out  forces  in  the  Suez  Canal 
zone  and  restoring  the  UN  buffer  zone.  The  published  plan  was 
accompanied  by  private  (but  leaked)  assurances  from  the  United 
States  to  Israel  that  Egypt  would  not  interfere  with  Israeli  freedom 
of  navigation  in  the  Red  Sea  and  that  UN  forces  would  not  be  with- 
drawn without  the  consent  of  both  sides.  Following  the  signing  of 
this  agreement,  Kissinger  shuttled  between  Damascus  and  Jerusa- 
lem, finally  attaining  an  agreement  that  called  for  Israel  to  with- 
draw from  its  forward  positions  in  the  Golan  Heights,  including 
the  return  of  the  Syrian  town  of  Al  Qunaytirah.  The  evacuated 
zone  was  to  be  demilitarized  and  monitored  by  a  UN  Disengage- 
ment Observer  Force  (UNDOF). 

After  the  signing  of  the  Israeli- Syrian  Disengagement  Agreement 
in  June  1974,  the  public  mood  in  Israel  shifted  against  concessions. 
In  part,  Israel's  hardened  stance  was  a  reaction  to  the  1974  Arab 
summit  in  Rabat,  Morocco.  At  that  summit,  both  Syria  and  Egypt 
supported  a  resolution  recognizing  the  PLO  as  the  sole  repre- 
sentative of  the  Palestinian  people.  The  Israeli  public  viewed  the 
PLO  as  a  terrorist  organization  bent  on  destroying  the  Jewish 
state.  Throughout  1974  Palestinian  terrorism  increased;  in  the  sum- 
mer alone  there  were  attacks  in  Qiryat  Shemona,  Maalot,  and 
Jerusalem. 

Another  important  factor  underlying  Israel's  firmer  stance  was 
an  internal  political  struggle  in  the  newly  elected  government  of 
Yitzhak  Rabin.  Rabin  had  narrowly  defeated  his  chief  rival  Shimon 
Peres  in  bitterly  fought  internal  Labor  Party  elections  in  late  De- 
cember 1973.  Peres,  who  was  appointed  minister  of  defense,  forced 
Israel  into  a  less  flexible  posture  by  blocking  any  concessions  pro- 
posed by  Rabin.  In  addition,  the  issuing  of  the  Agranat  Commis- 
sion report  and  the  return  from  the  front  of  reservists  mobilized 
for  the  war  further  fueled  public  clamor  for  a  stronger  defense 
posture. 

In  Washington,  President  Gerald  R.  Ford,  facing  a  recalcitrant 
Israel  and  under  pressure  from  the  pro-Israel  lobby,  decided  to 
sweeten  the  offer  to  Israel.  The  United  States  pledged  to  provide 
Israel  US$2  billion  in  financial  aid,  to  drop  the  idea  of  an  interim 
withdrawal  in  the  West  Bank,  and  to  accept  that  only  cosmetic 
changes  could  be  expected  in  the  Second  Syrian-Israeli  Disengage- 
ment Agreement.  In  addition,  in  a  special  secret  memorandum 
Israel  received  a  pledge  that  the  United  States  would  not  deal  with 
the  PLO  as  long  as  the  PLO  failed  to  recognize  Israel's  right  to 


67 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

exist  and  failed  to  accept  Security  Council  Resolution  242.  In  Sep- 
tember 1975,  Israel  signed  the  Second  Sinai  Disengagement  Agree- 
ment, which  called  for  Israel  to  withdraw  from  the  Sinai  passes, 
leaving  them  as  a  demilitarized  zone  monitored  by  American  tech- 
nicians and  the  UNEF. 

The  Decline  of  the  Labor  Party 

Even  before  the  October  1973  War,  the  Labor  Party  was  ham- 
pered by  internal  dissension,  persistent  allegations  of  corruption, 
ambiguities  and  contradictions  in  its  political  platform,  and  by  the 
disaffection  of  Oriental  Jews  (see  Oriental  Jews,  this  ch.).  Labor's 
failure  to  prepare  the  country  for  the  war  further  alienated  a  large 
segment  of  the  electorate. 

Despite  Labor's  commitment  to  exchange  occupied  territories 
for  peace,  successive  Labor  governments  beginning  soon  after  the 
June  1967  War  established  settlements  in  the  territories  and  re- 
frained from  dismanding  illegal  settlements,  such  as  those  estab- 
lished in  1968  at  Qiryat  Arba  in  Hebron  by  Rabbi  Moshe  Levinger 
and  others  set  up  by  the  extremist  settier  movement  Gush  Emunim. 
By  1976  more  than  thirty  settlements  had  been  established  on  the 
West  Bank. 

Another  contradiction  in  Labor's  political  platform  concerned 
Jerusalem.  All  Labor  governments  have  proclaimed  that  Jerusa- 
lem will  always  remain  the  undivided  capital  of  Israel.  In  effect, 
this  stance  precludes  the  peace  for  territories  formula  contained 
in  Resolution  242  because  neither  Jordan  nor  the  Palestinians  would 
be  likely  to  accept  any  agreement  by  which  Jerusalem  remained 
in  Israeli  hands. 

The  post- 1973  Labor  Party  estrangement  from  the  Israeli  pub- 
lic intensified  throughout  1976  as  the  party  was  hit  with  a  barrage 
of  corruption  charges  that  struck  at  the  highest  echelons.  Rabin's 
minister  of  housing,  who  was  under  investigation  for  alleged  abuses 
during  his  time  as  director  general  of  the  Histadrut  Housing 
Authority,  committed  suicide  in  January  1977.  At  the  same  time, 
the  governor  of  the  Bank  of  Israel,  who  had  been  nominated  by 
Rabin,  was  sentenced  to  jail  for  taking  bribes  and  evading  taxes, 
and  the  director  general  of  the  Ministry  of  Housing  was  appre- 
hended in  various  extortion  schemes.  Finally,  and  most  egregious, 
Rabin  himself  was  caught  lying  about  money  illegally  kept  in  a 
bank  account  in  the  United  States. 

Israel's  growing  defense  budget  (about  35  to  40  percent  of  GNP), 
along  with  rising  world  oil  prices,  also  created  chaos  in  the  Israeli 
economy.  Inflation  was  running  at  40  to  50  percent  annually,  wages 
were  falling,  and  citizen  accumulation  of  so-called  black  money 


68 


Historical  Setting 


(unreported  income)  was  rampant.  The  worsening  economic  situ- 
ation led  to  greater  income  disparities  between  the  Ashkenazim, 
who  dominated  the  higher  echelons  of  government,  the  military, 
and  business,  and  the  majority  Oriental  population,  which  was 
primarily  employed  in  low  paying  blue-collar  jobs. 

Oriental  Jews 

By  the  mid-1970s,  economic  grievances,  corruption,  and  the  per- 
ceived haughtiness  of  the  Labor  elite  led  to  a  major  shift  in  the 
voting  patterns  of  Oriental  Jews  (those  of  African  or  Asian  origin). 
During  the  first  twenty  years  of  Israel's  existence,  Oriental  Jews 
voted  for  the  Labor  Party  mainly  because  the  Histadrut,  the  Jew- 
ish Agency,  and  other  state  institutions  on  which  they  as  new  im- 
migrants depended  were  dominated  by  Labor.  But  even  during 
the  early  years  of  the  state,  Labor's  ideological  blend  of  secular- 
socialist  Zionism  conflicted  sharply  with  the  Oriental  Jews'  cul- 
tural heritage,  which  tended  to  be  more  religious  and  oriented 
toward  a  free  market  economy.  As  Oriental  Jews  became  more 
integrated  into  Israeli  society,  especially  after  the  June  1967  War, 
resentment  of  Labor's  cultural,  political,  and  economic  hegemony 
increased.  Most  unacceptable  to  the  Oriental  Jews  was  the  hypocrisy 
of  Labor  slogans  that  continued  to  espouse  egalitarianism  while 
Ashkenazim  monopolized  the  political  and  economic  reins  of  power. 

Despite  Labor's  frequent  references  to  closing  the  Ashkenazi- 
Oriental  socioeconomic  gap,  the  disparity  of  incomes  between  the 
two  groups  actually  widened.  Between  1968  and  1971,  Minister 
of  Finance  Pinchas  Sapir's  program  of  encouraging  foreign  invest- 
ment and  subsidizing  private  investment  led  to  an  economic  boom; 
GNP  grew  at  7  percent  per  year.  Given  the  persistent  dominance 
of  Labor  institutions  in  the  economy,  however,  this  economic 
growth  was  not  evenly  distributed.  The  kibbutzim,  moshavim,  and 
Histadrut  enterprises,  along  with  private  defense  and  housing  con- 
tractors, enriched  themselves,  while  the  majority  of  Oriental  Jews, 
lacking  connections  with  the  ruling  Labor  elite,  saw  their  position 
deteriorate.  Furthermore,  while  Oriental  Jews  remained  for  the 
most  part  in  the  urban  slums,  the  government  provided  new 
European  immigrants  with  generous  loans  and  new  housing.  This 
dissatisfaction  led  to  the  growth  of  the  first  Oriental  protest 
movement — the  Black  Panthers — based  in  the  Jerusalem  slums  in 
early  1971. 

Oriental  Jews,  many  of  whom  were  forced  to  leave  their  homes 
in  the  Arab  states,  also  supported  tougher  measures  against  Israeli 
Arabs  and  neighboring  Arab  states  than  the  policies  pursued 
by  Labor.  Their  ill  feelings  were  buttressed  by  the  widely  held 


69 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


perception  that  the  establishment  of  an  independent  Palestinian 
entity  would  oblige  Oriental  Jews  to  accept  the  menial  jobs  per- 
formed by  Arab  laborers,  as  they  had  in  the  early  years  of  the  state. 

The  Begin  Era 

In  the  May  1977  elections,  the  Labor  Party's  dominance  of  Israeli 
politics  ended.  The  Likud  Bloc — an  alliance  of  Begin's  Herut  Party, 
the  Liberal  Party,  and  other  smaller  parties  formed  in  the  after- 
math of  the  October  1973  War — formed  a  ruling  coalition  govern- 
ment for  the  first  time  in  Israel's  history.  Likud  gained  forty-three 
seats,  Labor  dropped  to  thirty-two  seats,  down  by  nineteen  from 
the  1973  figure.  Likud's  supporters  consisted  of  disaffected  middle- 
class  elements  alienated  by  the  series  of  scandals,  many  new  im- 
migrants from  the  Soviet  Union,  and  large  numbers  of  defecting 
Oriental  Jews.  Begin  appealed  to  many  because  he  was  viewed  as 
incorruptible  and  untarnished  by  scandal.  He  was  a  strong  leader 
who  did  not  equivocate  about  his  plans  for  a  strong  Israel  (which 
he  believed  included  the  occupied  territories),  or  about  his  will- 
ingness to  stand  up  to  the  Arabs  or  even  the  superpowers  if  Israel's 
needs  demanded.  Begin  also  attracted  some  veteran  Labor  Zionists 
for  whom  his  focus  on  Jewish  settlement  and  self-reliance  was 
reminiscent  of  an  earlier  unadulterated  Labor  Zionism. 

Begin's  vision  of  Israel  and  its  role  in  the  region  was  deeply  rooted 
in  the  Revisionist  platform  with  which  he  had  been  associated  since 
the  days  of  Jabotinsky.  He  strongly  advocated  Israeli  sovereignty 
over  all  of  Eretz  Yisrael,  which  in  his  view  included  Jerusalem  and 
the  West  Bank,  but  not  Sinai. 

The  Peace  Process 

The  international  climate  at  the  time  of  Begin's  rise  to  power 
in  May  1977  leaned  strongly  toward  some  type  of  superpower- 
sanctioned  settlement  to  the  Arab-Israeli  dispute.  New  United  States 
president  Jimmy  Carter  and  Soviet  leader  Brezhnev  both  advo- 
cated a  comprehensive  Arab-Israeli  settlement  that  would  include 
autonomy  for  the  Palestinians.  On  October  1,  1977,  in  prepara- 
tion for  a  reconvened  Geneva  conference,  the  United  States  and 
the  Soviet  Union  issued  a  joint  statement  committing  themselves 
to  a  comprehensive  settlement  incorporating  all  parties  concerned 
and  all  questions. 

Nevertheless,  the  idea  of  a  Geneva  conference  on  the  Middle 
East  was  actively  opposed  and  eventually  defeated  by  a  constella- 
tion of  Israeli,  Egyptian,  and  powerful  private  American  interests. 
Begin  proclaimed  that  he  would  never  accept  the  authority  of  an 
international  forum  to  dictate  how  Israel  should  deal  with  its 


70 


Arrival  of  Egyptian  President  Anwar  as  Sadat 
at  Ben-Gurion  Airport,  Lod,  near  Tel  Aviv,  November  21,  1977 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Israel,  Washington 


territory,  especially  because,  aside  from  Washington,  the  Israelis 
would  lack  allies  at  such  a  meeting.  Inside  the  United  States,  the 
Jewish  lobby  and  anti-Soviet  political  groups  vehemently  opposed 
the  Geneva  conference  idea.  Sadat  also  opposed  a  Geneva  confer- 
ence, seeing  it  as  a  way  for  Syria,  supported  by  the  Soviet  Union, 
to  gain  leverage  in  an  Arab-Israeli  settlement.  Sadat  realized  that 
if  an  international  conference  were  held,  Egypt's  recovery  of  Sinai, 
which  was  his  primary  objective  in  dealing  with  Israel,  would  be 
secondary  to  the  Palestinian  issue  and  the  return  of  the  Golan 
Heights  to  Syria. 

To  stave  off  an  international  conference  and  to  save  Egypt's 
rapidly  collapsing  economy,  Sadat  made  the  boldest  of  diplomatic 
moves:  he  offered  to  address  the  Knesset.  Begin  consented,  and 
in  November  1977  Sadat  made  his  historic  journey  to  Jerusalem, 
opening  a  new  era  in  Egyptian-Israeli  relations.  Although  Sadat 
expressed  his  commitment  to  the  settlement  of  the  Palestinian  issue 
and  to  that  issue's  centrality  in  Arab-Israeli  relations,  his  main 
interest  remained  Israel's  return  of  Egyptian  territory.  Begin's 
acceptance  of  the  Egyptian  initiative  was  based  on  the  premise  that 
Sinai,  but  not  the  West  Bank,  was  negotiable.  He  foresaw  that 
exchanging  Sinai  for  a  peace  treaty  with  Egypt  would  remove  Egypt 
from  the  Arab-Israeli  military  balance  and  relieve  pressure  on  Israel 


71 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

to  make  territorial  concessions  on  the  West  Bank.  President  Carter, 
who  had  been  a  major  advocate  of  a  Geneva  conference,  was  forced 
by  the  momentum  of  Sadat's  initiative  to  drop  the  international 
conference  idea.  Subsequendy,  he  played  a  crucial  role  in  facilitating 
an  Egyptian-Israeli  peace  settlement. 

Following  nearly  a  year  of  stalled  negotiations,  Begin,  Sadat, 
and  Carter  met  at  Camp  David  near  Washington,  D.C.,  for  two 
weeks  in  September  1978.  The  crux  of  the  problem  at  Camp  David 
was  that  Begin,  the  old-time  Revisionist  who  had  opposed  territorial 
concessions  to  the  Arabs  for  so  many  years,  was  reluctant  to  dis- 
mantle existing  Sinai  settlements.  Finally,  on  September  17  he  con- 
sented, and  the  Camp  David  Accords  were  signed.  On  the  following 
day,  Begin  obtained  Knesset  approval  of  the  accords. 

The  Camp  David  Accords  consisted  of  two  agreements:  one  dealt 
with  the  future  of  the  West  Bank  and  the  other  with  the  return 
of  Sinai.  The  sections  on  the  West  Bank  were  vague  and  open  to 
various  interpretations.  They  called  for  Egypt,  Israel,  Jordan,  and 
"the  representatives  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  negotiate  about 
the  future  of  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza. ' '  A  five-year  period  of  "tran- 
sitional autonomy"  was  called  for  "to  ensure  a  peaceful  and  orderly 
transfer  of  authority."  The  agreement  also  called  for  peace  talks 
between  Israel  and  its  other  Arab  neighbors,  namely  Syria.  The 
other  part  of  the  accords  was  more  specific.  It  provided  for  "the 
full  exercise  of  Egyptian  sovereignty  up  to  the  internationally  recog- 
nized border,"  as  well  as  for  the  Israeli  right  of  free  passage  through 
the  Strait  of  Tiran  and  the  Suez  Canal.  The  agreements  were 
accompanied  by  letters.  A  letter  from  Begin  to  Carter  promised 
that  the  removal  of  settlers  from  Sinai  would  be  put  to  Knesset 
vote.  A  letter  from  Sadat  to  Carter  stated  that  if  the  settlers  were 
not  withdrawn  from  Sinai,  there  would  be  no  peace  treaty  between 
Egypt  and  Israel.  It  was  also  understood  that  to  make  the  agree- 
ment more  palatable  the  United  States  would  significantly  increase 
aid  to  both  countries. 

Begin 's  limited  view  of  Palestinian  autonomy  in  the  West  Bank 
became  apparent  almost  immediately  after  the  agreement  known 
as  the  Treaty  of  Peace  Between  Egypt  and  Israel  was  signed  in 
March  1979.  The  following  month  his  government  approved  two 
new  settlements  between  Ram  Allah  and  Nabulus.  The  military 
government  established  civilian  regional  councils  for  the  Jewish  set- 
tlements. Finally,  and  most  provocative,  autonomy  plans  were  pre- 
pared in  which  Israel  would  keep  exclusive  control  over  the  West 
Bank's  water,  communications,  roads,  public  order,  and  immi- 
gration. 


72 


Historical  Setting 


In  effect,  the  acceleration  of  settlements,  the  growth  of  an  increas- 
ingly militaristic  Jewish  settler  movement,  and  Israel's  stated  desire 
to  retain  complete  control  over  resources  in  the  territories  precluded 
the  participation  in  the  peace  process  of  either  moderate  Pales- 
tinians, such  as  the  newly  formed  National  Guidance  Committee 
composed  of  West  Bank  mayors  (the  PLO  refused  from  the  begin- 
ning to  participate  in  the  peace  process)  or  King  Hussein  of  Jordan. 
No  Arab  leader  could  accept  Begin' s  truncated  version  of  auton- 
omy. Hussein,  who  had  initially  withheld  judgment  on  the  accords, 
joined  hands  with  the  Arab  radicals  in  a  meeting  in  Baghdad  that 
denounced  the  Camp  David  Accords  and  the  peace  treaty  and 
ostracized  Egypt.  Sadat  protested  Israeli  actions  in  the  occupied 
territories,  but  he  was  unwilling  to  change  his  course  for  fear  that 
doing  so  would  leave  Sinai  permanently  in  Israeli  hands.  Presi- 
dent Carter  objected  to  the  new  settlements  but  was  unable  to  force 
the  Begin  government  to  change  its  settlement  policy.  Although 
ambassadors  were  exchanged;  commercial,  trade,  and  cultural  ties 
were  established;  and  Sinai  was  returned  in  May  1982,  relations 
between  Israel  and  Egypt  remained  chilly. 

The  Occupied  Territories 

During  the  June  1967  War,  about  1 . 1  million  Palestinian  Arabs 
living  in  the  West  Bank,  Gaza  Strip,  and  East  Jerusalem  came 
under  Israeli  rule.  Immediately  after  the  war,  East  Jerusalem  was 
occupied  and  reunited  with  the  rest  of  Israel's  capital.  Its  Arab 
inhabitants — about  67,000  after  the  war — became  citizens  of  Israel 
with  the  same  rights  as  other  Israeli  Arabs.  The  West  Bank,  ruled 
by  Jordan  since  1948,  was  economically  underdeveloped  but  pos- 
sessed a  relatively  efficient  administrative  infrastructure.  Its  750,000 
people  consisted  of  a  settled  population  and  refugees  from  Israel 
who  had  fled  during  the  1948  War.  Both  the  refugees  and  the  set- 
tled population  were  Jordanian  citizens,  free  to  work  in  Jordan. 
Most  of  the  leading  urban  families  and  virtually  all  the  rural  clans 
had  cooperated  with  Hussein.  The  Gaza  Strip,  on  the  other  hand, 
was  seething  with  discontent  when  Israeli  forces  arrived  in  1967. 
Its  1967  population  of  350,000 — the  highest  population  density  in 
the  world  at  the  time — had  been  under  Egyptian  rule,  but  the 
inhabitants  were  not  accepted  as  Egyptian  citizens  or  allowed  to 
travel  to  Egypt  proper.  As  a  result  they  were  unable  to  find  work 
outside  the  camps  and  were  almost  completely  dependent  on  the 
UN  Relief  and  Works  Agency  (UNRWA)  for  Palestine  Refugees 
in  the  Near  East.  In  the  Gaza  Strip,  Israel  implemented  harsh  secu- 
rity measures  to  quell  widespread  unrest  and  root  out  the  growing 
resistance  movement. 


73 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Labor's  settlement  policy  in  the  occupied  territories  was  based 
on  a  plan  formulated  during  the  summer  of  1965  by  Yigal  Allon, 
deputy  prime  minister  of  the  Eshkol  government.  The  plan,  primar- 
ily dictated  by  security  concerns,  called  for  rural  and  urban  settle- 
ments to  be  erected  in  a  sparsely  Arab-populated  strip  twelve  to 
fifteen  kilometers  wide  along  the  western  bank  of  the  Jordan  River 
and  the  western  shores  of  the  Dead  Sea.  Labor  governments  sought 
to  interfere  as  little  as  possible  in  the  day-to-day  lives  of  the  Arab 
inhabitants.  Political  and  social  arrangements  were,  as  much  as 
possible,  kept  under  Jordanian  or  pro-Jordanian  control,  the  cur- 
rency remained  the  Jordanian  dinar,  the  application  of  Jordanian 
law  continued,  and  a  revised  Jordanian  curriculum  was  used  in 
the  schools. 

Another  aspect  of  Labor's  occupation  policies  was  the  integra- 
tion of  the  territories  into  the  Israeli  economy.  By  the  mid-1970s, 
Arabs  from  Israel  and  the  territories  provided  nearly  one-quarter 
of  Israel's  factory  labor  and  half  the  workers  in  construction  and 
service  industries.  Moreover,  the  territories  became  an  important 
market  for  Israeli  domestic  production;  by  1975  about  16  percent 
of  all  Israeli  exports  were  sold  in  the  territories. 

The  final  element  of  Labor's  occupation  policies  was  economic 
and  social  modernization.  This  included  the  mechanization  of 
agriculture,  the  spread  of  television,  and  vast  improvements  in  edu- 
cation and  health  care.  This  led  to  a  marked  increase  in  GNP,  which 
grew  by  14.5  percent  annually  between  1968  and  1973  in  the  West 
Bank  and  19.4  percent  annually  in  Gaza.  As  a  result,  the  tradi- 
tional elites,  who  had  cooperated  with  Hussein  during  the  years 
of  Jordanian  rule,  were  challenged  by  a  younger,  better  educated, 
and  more  radical  elite  that  was  growing  increasingly  impatient  with 
the  Israeli  occupation  and  the  older  generation's  complacency.  In 
the  spring  of  1976,  Minister  of  Defense  Shimon  Peres  held  West 
Bank  municipal  elections,  hoping  to  bolster  the  declining  power 
of  the  old  guard  Palestinian  leadership.  Peres  wrongly  calculated 
that  the  PLO  would  boycott  the  elections.  Instead,  pro-PLO  can- 
didates won  in  every  major  town  except  Bethlehem. 

Israel's  settlement  policy  in  the  occupied  territories  changed  in 
1977  with  the  coming  to  power  of  Begin.  Whereas  Labor's  poli- 
cies had  been  guided  primarily  by  security  concerns,  Begin  es- 
poused a  deep  ideological  attachment  to  the  territories.  He  viewed 
the  Jewish  right  of  settlement  in  the  occupied  territories  as  fulfill- 
ing biblical  prophecy  and  therefore  not  a  matter  for  either  the 
Arabs  or  the  international  community  to  accept  or  reject.  Begin' s 
messianic  designs  on  the  territories  were  supported  by  the  rapid 


74 


Historical  Setting 


growth  of  religio-nationalist  groups,  such  as  Gush  Emunim,  which 
established  settlements  in  heavily  populated  Arab  areas. 

The  increase  in  Jewish  settlements  and  the  radicalization  of  the 
settlers  created  an  explosive  situation.  When  in  May  1980  six  stu- 
dents of  a  Hebron  yeshiva,  a  Jewish  religious  school,  were  killed 
by  Arab  gunfire,  a  chain  of  violence  was  set  off  that  included  a 
government  crackdown  on  Hebron  and  the  expulsion  of  three 
leaders  of  the  Hebron  Arab  community.  West  Bank  Jewish  set- 
tiers  increasingly  took  the  law  into  their  own  hands;  they  were  widely 
believed  to  be  responsible  for  car-bomb  attacks  on  the  mayors  of 
Ram  Allah  and  Nabulus. 

Begin 's  policies  toward  the  occupied  territories  became  in- 
creasingly annexationist  following  the  Likud  victory  in  the  1981 
parliamentary  elections.  He  viewed  the  Likud's  victory,  which  sur- 
prised many  observers,  as  a  mandate  to  pursue  a  more  aggressive 
policy  in  the  territories.  After  the  election,  he  appointed  the  hawkish 
Ariel  Sharon  as  minister  of  defense,  replacing  the  more  moderate 
Ezer  Weizman,  who  had  resigned  in  protest  against  Begin 's  set- 
tlement policy.  In  November  1981,  Sharon  installed  a  civilian  ad- 
ministration in  the  West  Bank  headed  by  Menachem  Milson. 
Milson  immediately  set  out  to  stifle  rapidly  growing  Palestinian 
nationalist  sentiments;  he  deposed  pro-PLO  mayors,  dissolved  the 
mayors'  National  Guidance  Committee,  and  shut  two  Arab 
newspapers  and  Bir  Zeit  University. 

While  Milson  was  working  to  quell  Palestinian  nationalism  in 
the  territories,  the  Begin  regime  accelerated  the  pace  of  settlements 
by  providing  low-interest  mortgages  and  other  economic  benefits 
to  prospective  settlers.  This  action  induced  a  number  of  secular 
Jews,  who  were  not  part  of  Gush  Emunim,  to  settle  in  the  territo- 
ries, further  consolidating  Israel's  hold  on  the  area.  Moreover,  Israel 
established  large  military  bases  and  extensive  road,  electricity,  and 
water  networks  in  the  occupied  territories. 

In  November  1981 ,  Milson  established  village  leagues  in  the  West 
Bank  consisting  of  pro-Jordanian  Palestinians  to  counter  the  PLO's 
growing  strength  there.  The  leadership  of  the  village  leagues  had 
a  limited  base  of  support,  however,  especially  because  the  growth 
of  Jewish  settlements  had  adversely  affected  Arab  villagers.  The 
failure  of  the  Village  League  Plan,  the  escalating  violence  in  the 
occupied  territories,  in  addition  to  increased  PLO  attacks  against 
northern  Israeli  settlements,  and  Syria's  unwillingness  to  respond 
when  the  Knesset  extended  Israeli  law  to  the  occupied  Golan 
Heights  in  December  1981  convinced  Begin  and  Sharon  of  the  need 
to  intervene  militarily  in  southern  Lebanon. 


75 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Israeli  Action  in  Lebanon,  1978-82 

The  precarious  sectarian  balance  prevailing  in  Lebanon  has 
presented  Israeli  policy  makers  with  opportunities  and  risks. 
Lebanon's  Christian  Maronites,  who  under  French  tutelage  oc- 
cupied the  most  important  political  and  economic  posts  in  the  coun- 
try, were,  like  Israeli  Jews,  a  minority  among  the  region's  Muslim 
majority.  As  early  as  1954,  Ben-Gurion  had  proposed  that  Israel 
support  the  establishment  in  part  of  Lebanon  of  a  Maronite- 
dominated  Christian  ministate  that  would  ally  itself  with  Israel. 
During  the  Lebanese  Civil  War  (1975-76),  then  Prime  Minister 
Rabin  reportedly  invested  US$150  million  in  equipping  and  train- 
ing the  Maronite  Phalange  Party's  militia. 

The  instability  of  Lebanon's  sectarian  balance,  however,  ena- 
bled hostile  states  or  groups  to  use  Lebanon  as  a  staging  ground 
for  attacks  against  Israel.  The  PLO,  following  its  expulsion  from 
Jordan  in  September  1970,  set  up  its  major  base  of  operations  in 
southern  Lebanon  from  which  it  attacked  northern  Israel.  The  num- 
ber and  size  of  PLO  operations  in  the  south  accelerated  through- 
out the  late  1970s  as  central  authority  deteriorated  and  Lebanon 
became  a  battleground  of  warring  militias.  In  March  1978,  fol- 
lowing a  fedayeen  attack,  originating  in  Lebanon,  on  the  Tel  Aviv- 
Haifa  road  that  killed  thirty-seven  people,  Israel  launched  Opera- 
tion Litani,  a  massive  military  offensive  that  resulted  in  Israeli 
occupation  of  southern  Lebanon  up  to  the  Litani  River.  By  June 
Prime  Minister  Begin,  under  intense  American  pressure,  withdrew 
Israeli  forces,  which  were  replaced  by  a  UN  Interim  Force  in 
Lebanon  (UNIFIL).  The  withdrawal  of  Israeli  troops  without  hav- 
ing removed  the  PLO  from  its  bases  in  southern  Lebanon  became 
a  major  embarrassment  to  the  Begin  government. 

By  the  spring  of  1981,  Bashir  Jumayyil  (also  cited  as  Gemayel) 
emerged  as  the  Maronite  strong  man  and  major  Israeli  ally  in 
Lebanon.  Having  ruthlessly  eliminated  his  Maronite  rivals,  he  was 
attempting  to  extend  his  authority  to  other  Lebanese  Christian  sects. 
In  late  1980  and  early  1981,  he  extended  the  protection  of  his 
Maronite  militia  to  the  Greek  Orthodox  inhabitants  of  Zahlah,  in 
eastern  Lebanon.  Syrian  president  Hafiz  al  Assad  considered 
Zahlah,  which  was  located  near  the  Beirut-Damascus  road,  a  strong- 
hold that  was  strategically  important  to  Syria.  In  April  1981 ,  Syrian 
forces  bombed  and  besieged  Zahlah,  ousting  the  Phalangists,  the 
Maronite  group  loyal  to  Jumayyil,  from  the  city.  In  response  to 
the  defeat  of  its  major  Lebanese  ally,  Israeli  aircraft  destroyed 
two  Syrian  helicopters  over  Lebanon,  prompting  Assad  to  move 
Soviet-made  SAMs  into  Lebanon.  Israel  threatened  to  destroy  the 


76 


Historical  Setting 


missiles  but  was  dissuaded  from  doing  so  by  the  administration 
of  President  Ronald  Reagan.  In  the  end,  the  Zahlah  crisis,  like 
the  Litani  Operation,  badly  tarnished  the  image  of  the  Begin 
government,  which  had  come  to  power  in  1977  espousing  a  hard- 
line security  policy. 

In  June  1981,  Israel  held  Knesset  elections  that  focused  on  the 
Likud's  failure  to  stop  the  PLO  buildup  in  southern  Lebanon  or 
to  remove  Syrian  missile  batteries  from  the  Biqa  (Bekaa)  Valley 
in  eastern  Lebanon.  To  remove  a  potential  nuclear  threat  and  also 
to  bolster  its  public  image,  the  IDF  launched  a  successful  attack 
on  the  French-built  Iraqi  Osiraq  (acronym  for  Osiris-Iraq)  nuclear 
reactor  three  weeks  before  the  elections.  Begin  interpreted 
widespread  public  approval  of  the  attack  as  a  mandate  for  a  more 
aggressive  policy  in  Lebanon.  The  Likud  also  rallied  a  large  num- 
ber of  undecided  voters  by  reducing  import  duties  on  luxury  goods, 
enabling  Israeli  consumers  to  go  on  an  unprecedented  buying  spree 
that  would  later  result  in  spiraling  inflation.  Although  Labor 
regained  an  additional  fifteen  seats  over  its  poor  showing  in  1977 
when  it  won  only  thirty-two  seats,  it  was  unable  to  prevail  over 
Likud. 

Begin' s  perception  that  the  Israeli  public  supported  a  more  ac- 
tive defense  posture  influenced  the  composition  of  his  1981  postelec- 
tion cabinet.  His  new  minister  of  defense,  Ariel  Sharon,  was 
unquestionably  an  Israeli  war  hero  of  longstanding;  he  had  played 
an  important  role  in  the  1956,  1967,  and  1973  wars  and  was  wide- 
ly respected  as  a  brilliant  military  tactician.  Sharon,  however,  was 
also  feared  as  a  military  man  with  political  ambitions,  one  who 
was  ignorant  of  political  protocol  and  who  was  known  to  make 
precipitous  moves.  Aligned  with  Sharon  was  chief  of  staff  General 
Rafael  Eitan  who  also  advocated  an  aggressive  Israeli  defense 
posture.  Because  Begin  was  not  a  military  man,  Israel's  defense 
policy  was  increasingly  decided  by  the  minister  of  defense  and  the 
chief  of  staff.  The  combination  of  wide  discretionary  powers  granted 
Sharon  and  Eitan  over  Israeli  military  strategy,  the  PLO's  menacing 
growth  in  southern  Lebanon,  and  the  existence  of  Syrian  SAMs 
in  the  Biqa  Valley  pointed  to  imminent  Syrian-PLO-Israeli 
hostilities. 

In  July  1981,  Israel  responded  to  PLO  rocket  attacks  on  north- 
ern Israeli  settlements  by  bombing  PLO  encampments  in  southern 
Lebanon.  United  States  envoy  Philip  Habib  eventually  negotiated 
a  shaky  cease-fire  that  was  monitored  by  UNIFIL. 

Another  factor  that  influenced  Israel's  decision  to  take  action 
in  Lebanon  was  the  disarray  of  the  Arab  world  throughout  the  early 
1980s.  The  unanimity  shown  by  the  Arab  states  in  Baghdad  in 


77 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

condemning  Sadat's  separate  peace  with  Israel  soon  dissipated.  The 
1979  Iranian  Islamic  Revolution,  the  outbreak  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War 
in  September  1980,  and  the  December  1980  Soviet  invasion  of 
Afghanistan  badly  divided  the  Arab  world.  The  hard-line  countries, 
Syria  and  Libya,  supported  Iran,  and  the  moderate  countries,  Jor- 
dan, Saudi  Arabia,  and  the  Gulf  states,  supported  Iraq.  Moreover, 
Syrian  president  Assad's  regime,  dominated  by  the  minority  Alawi 
Muslim  sect,  was  confronted  with  growing  domestic  opposition  from 
the  Muslim  Brotherhood,  which  Assad  violently  quelled  in  Febru- 
ary 1982  by  besieging  the  city  of  Hamah.  Finally,  early  United  States 
opposition  to  an  invasion  of  Lebanon  appeared  to  have  weakened, 
following  Israel's  final  withdrawal  from  Sinai  in  May  1982. 

Israel's  incursion  into  Lebanon,  called  Operation  Peace  for 
Galilee,  was  launched  in  early  June  1982.  After  an  attack  on  Israel's 
ambassador  in  London  carried  out  by  the  Abu  Nidal  group  but 
blamed  on  the  PLO,  Israeli  troops  marched  into  southern  Leba- 
non. On  the  afternoon  of  June  4  the  Israeli  air  force  bombed  a 
sports  stadium  in  Beirut,  said  to  be  used  for  ammunition  storage 
by  the  PLO.  The  PLO  responded  by  shelling  Israeli  towns  in 
Galilee.  On  June  5,  the  government  of  Israel  formally  accused  the 
PLO  of  breaking  the  cease-fire.  At  11  A.M.  on  June  6,  Israeli 
ground  forces  crossed  the  border  into  Lebanon.  The  stated  goals 
of  the  operation  were  to  free  northern  Israel  from  PLO  rocket 
attacks  by  creating  a  forty-kilometer-wide  security  zone  in  southern 
Lebanon  and  by  signing  a  peace  treaty  with  Lebanon  (see  1982 
Invasion  of  Lebanon,  ch.  5). 

The  June  1982  invasion  of  Lebanon  was  the  first  war  fought  by 
the  IDF  without  a  domestic  consensus.  Unlike  the  1948,  1967,  and 
1973  wars,  the  Israeli  public  did  not  view  Operation  Peace  for 
Galilee  as  essential  to  the  survival  of  the  Jewish  state.  By  the  early 
1980s — less  than  forty  years  after  its  establishment — Israel  had  at- 
tained a  military  prowess  unmatched  in  the  region.  The  architects 
of  the  1982  invasion,  Ariel  Sharon  and  Rafael  Eitan,  sought  to  use 
Israel's  military  strength  to  create  a  more  favorable  regional  politi- 
cal setting.  This  strategy  included  weakening  the  PLO  and  sup- 
porting the  rise  to  power  in  Lebanon  of  Israel's  Christian  allies. 
The  attempt  to  impose  a  military  solution  to  the  intractable  Pales- 
tinian problem  and  to  force  political  change  in  Lebanon  failed.  The 
PLO,  although  defeated  militarily,  remained  an  important  politi- 
cal force,  and  Bashir  Jumayyil,  Israel's  major  ally  in  Lebanon,  was 
killed  shortly  after  becoming  president.  Inside  Israel,  a  mounting 
death  toll  caused  sharp  criticism  by  a  war-weary  public  of  the  war 
and  of  the  Likud  government. 

*     *  * 


78 


Historical  Setting 


The  literature  on  the  cultural,  political,  and  religious  history  of 
Israel  is  immense.  The  works  noted  here  and  those  listed  in  the 
bibliography  include  easily  available  English-language  materials 
that  are  valuable  hither  reading  not  only  for  the  serious  student 
but  also  for  the  interested  layperson. 

For  a  comprehensive  and  very  detailed  view  of  Jewish  history 
see  the  eighteen- volume  work  by  Salo  W.  Baron  and  A  History  of 
the  Jewish  People,  edited  by  H.H.  Ben  Sasson.  Another  valuable 
source  covering  all  aspects  of  Jewish  history  is  the  Encyclopaedia 
Judaica;  a  condensed  history  of  the  Jews  is  contained  in  the  sixteen 
volumes  of  the  Israel  Pocket  Library.  Paul  Johnson's  A  History  of 
the  Jews  provides  a  more  recent  overview. 

A, valuable  summary  of  the  origins  of  Zionism  is  set  forth  in 
Arthur  Hertzberg's  introduction  to  The  Zionist  Idea:  A  Historical  Anal- 
ysis and  Reader.  David  Vital' s  books,  The  Origins  of  Zionism  and 
Zionism:  The  Formative  Years,  offer  scholarly  accounts  of  the  history 
of  Zionism.  More  recent  works  on  Zionism  include  Shlomo 
Avineri's  The  Making  of  Modern  Zionism  and  Bernard  Avishai's  The 
Tragedy  of  Zionism. 

The  most  comprehensive  history  of  the  modern  State  of  Israel 
is  Howard  Morley  Sachar's  two-volume  A  History  of  Israel.  Two 
other  reliable  general  histories  of  Israel  are  Noah  Lucas's  The  Modern 
History  of  Israel  and  The  Siege  by  Connor  Cruise  O'Brien.  A  solid 
account  of  Israel's  wars  is  provided  by  Chaim  Herzog's  The  Arab  - 
Israeli  Wars. 

Five  classics  covering  the  pre-state  era  are  Neville  Mandel's  The 
Arabs  and  Zionism  Before  World  War  I,  J.C.  Hurewitz's  The  Struggle 
for  Palestine,  Christopher  Sykes's  Crossroads  to  Israel,  George 
Antonius's  The  Arab  Awakening,  and  Michael  J.  Cohen's  Palestine: 
Retreat  from  the  Mandate:  The  Making  of  British  Policy,  1936-1945.  New 
Revisionist  accounts  of  the  crucial  years  1948-49  are  contained  in 
Tom  Segev's  1949:  The  First  Israelis,  Simha  Flapan's  The  Birth  of 
Israel:  Myths  and  Realities,  and  Benny  Morris's  The  Birth  of  the  Pales- 
tinian Refugee  Problem. 

The  most  authoritative  source  on  Israel's  settlement  policy  in 
the  occupied  territories  is  Meron  Benvenisti's  The  West  Bank  and 
Gaza  Data  Project.  Two  seminal  works  on  Arabs  in  Israel  are  Sammy 
Smooha's  Israel:  Pluralism  and  Conflict  and  Sabri  Jiryis's  The  Arabs 
in  Israel.  The  best  accounts  of  Israel's  incursion  into  Lebanon  are 
Itamar  Rabinovich's  The  War  for  Lebanon,  1970-1983  and  Zeev 
Schiff  and  Ehud  Yaari's  Israel's  War  in  Lebanon.  (For  further  infor- 
mation and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


79 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Moroccan  Jewish  immigrant  and  Sephardic  rabbi 


THE  SOCIETY  OF  MODERN  ISRAEL  has  diverse  sources, 
but  the  majority  of  these  sources  stem  ultimately  from  Judaism  and 
the  modern  political  movement  called  Zionism.  Crystallizing  in  the 
late  nineteenth  century  as  a  response  to  both  the  repression  of  Jews 
in  Eastern  Europe  and  the  non-Jewish  European  nationalist  move- 
ments of  the  time,  Zionism  called  for  the  reversal  of  the  Jewish 
dispersion  (Diaspora)  and  the  "ingathering  of  the  exiles"  to  their 
biblical  homeland.  Although  only  small  numbers  of  Jews  had  resid- 
ed in  Palestine  since  the  destruction  of  the  Second  Temple  by  the 
Romans  in  A.D.  70,  the  "new  Yishuv"  (as  opposed  to  the  "old 
Yishuv"  consisting  of  traditional  Orthodox  Jewish  residents),  or 
prestate  Jewish  community  in  Palestine,  dates  from  1882  and  the 
arrival  from  Russia  of  a  group  called  Hibbat  Tziyyon  (Lovers  of 
Zion),  intent  on  settling  the  land  as  part  of  its  fulfillment  of  the 
Zionist  ideal. 

As  a  nationalist  movement,  Zionism  largely  succeeded:  much 
of  the  Jewish  Diaspora  was  dissolved,  and  the  people  were  integrated 
into  the  population  of  the  State  of  Israel — a  self-consciously  modern 
Jewish  state.  Along  with  this  political  achievement,  a  cultural 
achievement  of  equal,  if  not  greater,  importance  took  place. 
Hebrew,  the  ancient  biblical  language,  was  revived  and  became 
the  modern  spoken  and  written  vernacular.  The  revival  of  Hebrew 
linked  the  new  Jewish  state  to  its  Middle  Eastern  past  and  helped 
to  unify  the  people  of  the  new  state  by  providing  them  with  a  com- 
mon tongue  that  transcended  the  diversity  of  languages  the  im- 
migrants brought  with  them. 

Despite  these  political  and  cultural  achievements — achievements 
that  Israeli  sociologist  S.N.  Eisenstadt  sees  as  comprising  "the  Jew- 
ish re-entry  into  history" — modern  Israeli  society  is  still  beset  by 
problems,  some  of  them  profound.  Among  these  are  problems  found 
in  all  industrial  and  economically  differentiated  social  systems,  in- 
cluding stratification  by  socioeconomic  class,  differential  prestige 
attached  to  various  occupations  or  professions,  barriers  to  social 
mobility,  and  different  qualities  of  life  in  urban  centers,  towns,  and 
rural  localities.  For  example,  there  are  significant  differences  be- 
tween the  quality  of  life  in  the  so-called  development  towns  and 
the  rural  localities  known  as  kibbutzim  (sing.,  kibbutz — see  Glos- 
sary) and  moshavim  (sing.,  moshav),  respectively  collective  and 
cooperative  settlements  that  are  strongly  socialist  and  Zionist  in 
history  and  character. 


83 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Other  social  problems  that  Israel  faces  are  unique  to  its  own 
society  and  culture.  The  role  that  traditional  Judaism  should  play 
in  the  modern  state  is  a  major  source  of  controversy.  The  tension 
between  religious  and  secular  influences  pervades  all  aspects  of 
society.  For  example,  religious  practices  influence  the  education 
system,  the  way  ethnic  groups  are  dealt  with,  how  political  debate 
is  conducted,  and  there  is  no  civil  marriage  in  Israel. 

The  division  between  the  Ashkenazim  (Jews  of  European  or 
American  origin)  and  Oriental  Jews  (Jews  of  African  or  Asian  ori- 
gin) is  another  serious  problem.  This  divisiveness  results  from  the 
extreme  cultural  diversity  in  the  migratory  streams  that  brought 
Jewish  immigrants  to  Israel  between  the  late  nineteenth  century 
and  the  late  1980s.  Already- settled  members  of  the  receiving  soci- 
ety have  had  difficulty  absorbing  immigrants  whose  cultures  differ 
so  greatly  from  their  own  and  from  each  other.  Adding  further  to 
cultural  disharmony  is  the  problem  of  the  place  of  non-Jews  in  the 
Jewish  state.  In  Israel  non-Jews  are  primarily  Arabs  (who  are  mostly 
Muslims,  but  also  Christians  and  Druzes);  a  small  number  are  non- 
Arab  Muslims  (such  as  the  Circassians)  or  Christians  (such  as  the 
Armenian  residents  of  Jerusalem).  Jewish  Israelis  also  distinguish 
between  Arabs  who  reside  within  the  pre-June  1967  War  bound- 
aries of  Israel  and  Arabs  who  live  in  the  West  Bank,  the  Golan 
Heights,  and  the  Gaza  Strip — the  latter  group  is  perceived  as  hav- 
ing no  loyalty  to  the  state. 

The  rift  between  Arabs  and  Jews  in  Israel  is,  of  course,  related 
to  Israel's  position  in  the  contemporary  Middle  East.  By  Israeli 
count,  the  1982  invasion  of  Lebanon  was  the  fifth  major  Arab-Israeli 
war  since  1948.  This  does  not  count  smaller  military  actions  or 
larger,  more  celebrated  military  actions,  such  as  the  Entebbe  raid 
of  July  1976.  American  political  scientist  Bernard  Reich  has  writ- 
ten that  "Israel  is  perhaps  unique  among  states  in  having  hostile 
neighbors  on  all  of  its  borders,  with  the  exception,  since  1979,  of 
Egypt. ' '  He  adds  that  this  fact  has  dominated  all  aspects  of  Israeli 
life  since  1948,  when  the  state  was  established  and  was  invaded 
by  Arab  armies.  It  might  be  noted  that  security  concerns  were  a 
striking  feature  of  life  (especially  after  1929  and  Arab  violence 
against  Jews)  in  the  Yishuv  as  well.  To  the  tension  caused  by 
cleavages  between  Oriental  and  Ashkenazi  Jews,  between  the  reli- 
gious and  the  secularists,  and  between  Jews  and  non-Jews  must 
be  added  the  profound  social  and  psychological  stress  of  living  in 
a  society  at  war  with,  and  feeling  itself  to  be  under  siege  by,  its 
neighbors.  Many  Israelis  would  also  cite  the  special  stress  of  hav- 
ing to  serve  as  soldiers  in  areas  regarded  by  Arab  inhabitants  as 


84 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


"occupied  territories,"  a  situation  characterized,  especially  since 
December  1987,  by  increasing  civil  disobedience  and  violence. 

Geography 

Israel  is  located  at  the  eastern  end  of  the  Mediterranean  Sea. 
It  is  bounded  on  the  north  by  Lebanon,  on  the  northeast  by  Syria, 
on  the  east  and  southeast  by  Jordan,  on  the  southwest  by  Egypt, 
and  on  the  west  by  the  Mediterranean  Sea  (see  fig.  1).  Before  June 
1967,  the  area  composing  Israel  (resulting  from  the  armistice  lines 
of  1949  and  1950)  was  about  20,700  square  kilometers,  which  in- 
cluded 445  square  kilometers  of  inland  water.  Thus  Israel  was 
roughly  the  size  of  the  state  of  New  Jersey,  stretching  424  kilo- 
meters from  north  to  south.  Its  width  ranged  from  114  kilometers 
to,  at  its  narrowest  point,  10  kilometers.  The  area  added  to  Israel 
after  the  June  1967  War,  consisting  of  occupied  territories  (the  West 
Bank — see  Glossary — and  the  Gaza  Strip)  and  annexed  territories 
(East  Jerusalem  and  the  Golan  Heights)  totaled  an  additional  7,477 
square  kilometers.  The  areas  comprised  the  West  Bank,  5,879 
kilometers;  the  Gaza  Strip,  378;  East  Jerusalem,  70;  and  the  Golan 
Heights,  1,150. 

Topography 

The  country  is  divided  into  four  regions:  the  coastal  plain,  the 
central  hills,  the  Jordan  Rift  Valley,  and  the  Negev  Desert  (see 
fig.  4).  The  Mediterranean  coastal  plain  stretches  from  the  Lebanese 
border  in  the  north  to  Gaza  in  the  south,  interrupted  only  by  Cape 
Carmel  at  Haifa  Bay.  It  is  about  forty  kilometers  wide  at  Gaza 
and  narrows  toward  the  north  to  about  five  kilometers  at  the 
Lebanese  border.  The  region  is  fertile  and  humid  (historically 
malarial)  and  is  known  for  its  citrus  and  viniculture.  The  plain  is 
traversed  by  several  short  streams,  of  which  only  two,  the  Yarqon 
and  Qishon,  have  permanent  water  flows. 

East  of  the  coastal  plain  lies  the  central  highland  region.  In  the 
north  of  this  region  lie  the  mountains  and  hills  of  Upper  Galilee 
and  Lower  Galilee;  farther  to  the  south  are  the  Samarian  Hills  with 
numerous  small,  fertile  valleys;  and  south  of  Jerusalem  are  the 
mainly  barren  hills  of  Judea.  The  central  highlands  average  610 
meters  in  height  and  reach  their  highest  elevation  at  Mount  Meron, 
at  1,208  meters,  in  Galilee  near  Zefat  (Safad).  Several  valleys  cut 
across  the  highlands  roughly  from  east  to  west;  the  largest  is  the 
Yizreel  or  Jezreel  Valley  (also  known  as  the  Plain  of  Esdraelon), 
which  stretches  forty-eight  kilometers  from  Haifa  southeast  to  the 
valley  of  the  Jordan  River,  and  is  nineteen  kilometers  across  at 
its  widest  point. 


85 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  4.  Topography  and  Drainage 


86 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


East  of  the  central  highlands  lies  the  Jordan  Rift  Valley,  which 
is  a  small  part  of  the  6,500-kilometer-long  Syrian-East  African  Rift. 
In  Israel  the  Rift  Valley  is  dominated  by  the  Jordan  River,  Lake 
Tiberias  (known  also  as  the  Sea  of  Galilee  and  to  Israelis  as  Lake 
Kinneret),  and  the  Dead  Sea.  The  Jordan,  Israel's  largest  river 
(322  kilometers  long),  originates  in  the  Dan,  Baniyas,  and  Has- 
bani  rivers  near  Mount  Hermon  in  the  Anti-Lebanon  Mountains 
and  flows  south  through  the  drained  Hula  Basin  into  the  fresh- 
water Lake  Tiberias.  Lake  Tiberias  is  165  square  kilometers  in  size 
and,  depending  on  the  season  and  rainfall,  is  at  about  213  meters 
below  sea  level.  With  a  capacity  estimated  at  3  billion  cubic  meters, 
it  serves  as  the  principal  reservoir  of  the  National  Water  Carrier 
(also  known  as  the  Kinneret-Negev  Conduit).  The  Jordan  River 
continues  its  course  from  the  southern  end  of  Lake  Tiberias  (forming 
the  boundary  between  the  West  Bank  and  Jordan)  to  its  terminus 
in  the  highly  saline  Dead  Sea.  The  Dead  Sea  is  1 ,020  square  kilo- 
meters in  size  and,  at  399  meters  below  sea  level,  is  the  lowest  point 
in  the  world.  South  of  the  Dead  Sea,  the  Rift  Valley  continues  in 
the  Nahal  HaArava  (Wadi  al  Arabah  in  Arabic),  which  has  no  per- 
manent water  flow,  for  170  kilometers  to  the  Gulf  of  Aqaba. 

The  Negev  Desert  comprises  approximately  12,000  square  kilo- 
meters, more  than  half  of  Israel's  total  land  area.  Geographically 
it  is  an  extension  of  the  Sinai  Desert,  forming  a  rough  triangle  with 
its  base  in  the  north  near  Beersheba  (also  seen  as  Beersheva),  the 
Dead  Sea,  and  the  southern  Judean  Hills,  and  it  has  its  apex  in 
the  southern  tip  of  the  country  at  Elat.  Topographically,  it  parallels 
the  other  regions  of  the  country,  with  lowlands  in  the  west,  hills 
in  the  central  portion,  and  the  Nahal  HaArava  as  its  eastern  border. 

Climate 

Israel  has  a  Mediterranean  climate  characterized  by  long,  hot, 
dry  summers  and  short,  cool,  rainy  winters,  as  modified  locally 
by  altitude  and  latitude.  The  climate  is  determined  by  Israel's 
location  between  the  subtropical  aridity  characteristic  of  Egypt  and 
the  subtropical  humidity  of  the  Levant  or  eastern  Mediterranean. 
January  is  the  coldest  month,  with  temperatures  from  5°C  to  10°C, 
and  August  is  the  hottest  month  at  18°C  to  38°C.  About  70  per- 
cent of  the  average  rainfall  in  the  country  falls  between  November 
and  March;  June  through  August  are  often  rainless.  Rainfall  is 
unevenly  distributed,  decreasing  sharply  as  one  moves  southward. 
In  the  extreme  south,  rainfall  averages  less  than  100  millimeters 
annually;  in  the  north,  average  annual  rainfall  is  1 , 128  millimeters. 
Rainfall  varies  from  season  to  season  and  from  year  to  year,  par- 
ticularly in  the  Negev  Desert.  Precipitation  is  often  concentrated 


87 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


in  violent  storms,  causing  erosion  and  flooding.  During  January 
and  February,  it  may  take  the  form  of  snow  at  the  higher  eleva- 
tions of  the  central  highlands,  including  Jerusalem.  The  areas  of 
the  country  most  cultivated  are  those  that  receive  more  than  300 
millimeters  of  rainfall  annually;  about  one- third  of  the  country  is 
cultivable. 

Population 

At  the  end  of  October  1987,  according  to  the  Central  Bureau 
of  Statistics,  the  population  of  Israel  was  4,389,600,  of  which 
3,601,200  (82  percent)  were  Jews.  About  27  percent  of  the  world's 
Jews  lived  in  Israel.  About  605,765  (13.8  percent)  of  the  popula- 
tion of  Israel  were  Muslims,  100,960  (2.3  percent)  were  Christians, 
and  about  74,623  (1.7  percent)  were  Druzes  and  others.  At  the 
end  of  1986  the  population  was  growing  at  a  rate  of  1.3  percent 
for  Jews,  3.0  percent  for  Muslims,  1.5  percent  for  Christians,  and 
2.8  percent  for  Druzes  and  others. 

In  1986  the  median  age  of  the  Israeli  population  was  25.4.  Differ- 
ences among  segments  of  the  population,  among  Jews  and  Mus- 
lim Arabs  in  particular,  were  striking.  The  non-Jewish  population 
was  much  younger;  in  1986  its  median  age  was  16.8,  that  of  Jews 
was  27.6.  The  Jewish  population  was  skewed  toward  the  upper  and 
lower  extremes  of  age,  as  compared  with  the  non-Jewish  age  dis- 
tribution. This  skewing  resulted  from  large-scale  Jewish  immigra- 
tion, especially  the  immigration  that  accompanied  the  formation 
of  the  state  in  1948.  Many  of  these  immigrants  were  older  individ- 
uals; moreover,  most  of  the  younger  immigrants  were  single  and 
did  not  marry  and  raise  families  until  after  their  settlement.  This 
circumstance  accounts  in  part  for  the  relatively  small  percentage 
of  the  Jewish  population  in  the  twenty  to  thirty-five-year-old  age- 
group  (see  fig.  5). 

With  regard  to  minorities,  Muslim  Arabs  clearly  predominated 
over  Christians,  Druzes,  and  others.  In  1986  Muslims  accounted 
for  77  percent  of  the  non-Jewish  Israeli  population.  Together  with 
the  Druzes,  who  resembled  them  closely  in  demographic  terms, 
they  had  the  highest  rate  of  growth,  with  all  the  associated  indica- 
tors (family  size,  fertility  rate,  etc.).  Christian  Arabs  in  1986  were 
demographically  more  similar  to  Israeli  Jews  than  to  Muslims  or 
Druzes  (see  fig.  6). 

The  Jewish  Israeli  population  differed  also  in  country  of  origin; 
the  population  included  African-Asian  and  European-American 
Jews,  and  native-born  Israelis,  or  sabras  (see  Glossary).  In  the  ol- 
dest age-groups,  those  of  European-American  provenance,  called 
"Ashkenazim,"  predominated,  reflecting  the  population  of  the 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


pre-1948  era.  By  the  early  1970s,  the  number  of  Israelis  of  African- 
Asian  origin  outnumbered  European  or  American  Jews.  In  Israel, 
immigrants  from  African  and  Asian  countries  were  called  either 
Orientals,  from  the  Hebrew  Edot  Mizrah  (communities  of  the  East), 
or  Sephardim  (see  Jewish  Ethnic  Groups,  this  ch.),  from  an  older 
and  different  usage.  It  was  not  until  1975  that  the  sabras  outnum- 
bered immigrants  (see  fig.  7). 

Understanding  the  importance  of  aliyah  (pi.,  aliyot — see  Glos- 
sary), as  immigration  to  Israel  is  called  in  Hebrew,  is  crucial  to 
understanding  much  about  Israeli  society,  from  its  demography 
to  its  ethnic  composition.  Aliyah  has  historical,  ideological,  and 
political  ramifications.  Ideologically,  aliyah  was  one  of  the  central 
constituents  of  the  Zionist  goal  of  ingathering  of  the  exiles.  Histor- 
ically and  politically,  aliyah  accounted  for  most  of  the  growth  in 
the  Jewish  population  before  and  just  after  the  advent  of  the  state. 
For  example,  between  1922  and  1948  the  Jewish  population  in 
Palestine  grew  at  an  annual  average  rate  of  9  percent.  Of  this 
growth,  75  percent  was  due  to  immigration.  By  contrast,  in  the 
same  period,  the  Arab  population  grew  at  an  average  annual  rate 
of  2.75  percent — almost  all  as  a  result  of  natural  increase.  Between 
1948  and  1960,  immigration  still  accounted  for  69  percent  of  the 
annual  average  growth  rate  of  8.6  percent.  A  significant  group  en- 
tering Israel  since  1965  has  been  Soviet  Jews,  of  whom  approxi- 
mately 174,000  immigrated  between  1965  and  1986.  In  the  most 
recent  period  for  which  data  existed  in  1988,  the  period  from  1983 
through  1986,  immigration  contributed  only  a  little  more  than  6 
percent  to  a  much  diminished  average  annual  growth  rate  of  1.5 
percent  (see  table  2,  Appendix  A). 

The  practical  political  aspects  of  declining  aliyot  are  important 
in  comparing  the  Jewish  and  non-Jewish  population  growth  rates; 
one  must  also  consider  emigration  of  Jews  from  Israel,  caHed  yerida, 
a  term  with  pejorative  connotations  in  Hebrew.  It  is  estimated  that 
from  400,000  to  500,000  Israelis  emigrated  between  1948  and  1986. 
Emigration  is  a  politically  sensitive  topic,  and  statistical  estimates 
of  its  magnitude  vary  greatly.  To  take  one  possible  index,  the  Cen- 
tral Bureau  of  Statistics  noted  that  of  the  more  than  466,000  Israeli 
residents  who  went  abroad  for  any  period  of  time  in  1980,  about 
19,200  had  not  returned  by  the  end  of  1986.  Continued  emigra- 
tion combined  with  falling  immigration,  together  with  unequal 
natural  population  growth  rates  of  Jews  and  Arabs,  mean  that  by 
the  year  2010,  assuming  medium  projections  of  Arab  and  Jewish 
fertility,  the  proportion  of  the  Jewish  population  within  Israel's 
pre- 1967  borders  would  decrease  to  75  percent.  If  the  occupied  ter- 
ritories in  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza  Strip  were  to  be  annexed,  by 


89 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


90 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


2010  Jews  would  become  a  clear  minority  in  the  state,  comprising 
approximately  45  percent  of  the  total  population. 

These  demographic  facts  have  affected  population  and  family 
planning  policies  in  Israel,  but  as  of  1988  no  consistent  course  of 
action  had  emerged.  Until  the  mid-1960s,  Israel  followed  a  policy 
favoring  large  families,  and  family  planning  was  not  a  priority. 
In  the  early  1970s,  as  a  result  of  unrest  among  Oriental  Jews,  the 
Labor  government  under  Golda  Meir  decided  to  support  family 
planning  as  a  way  of  reducing  the  size  of  Oriental  Jewish  fami- 
lies and  narrowing  the  socioeconomic  gap  between  them  and 
Ashkenazim.  Nevertheless,  most  family  planning  consisted,  unsatis- 
factorily to  most  people  concerned  with  the  issue,  of  abortions  per- 
formed under  a  liberal  abortion  law  that  was  opposed  bitterly  by 
Orthodox  Jews  for  religious  reasons.  (Orthodox  Jews  managed  to 
restrict  the  criteria  for  performing  abortions  after  Menachem  Begin 
came  to  power  in  1977.)  Thus,  because  Jews  feared  being  demo- 
graphically  overtaken  by  Arabs  and  because  of  potent  opposition 
by  Orthodox  Jews,  the  development  of  a  coherent  family-planning 
policy  was  stymied.  In  the  late  1980s,  Israel's  policies  on  family 
planning  remained  largely  contradictory. 

The  dispersal  of  the  population  has  been  a  matter  of  concern 
throughout  the  existence  of  the  state.  In  1986  the  average  popula- 
tion density  in  Israel  was  199  persons  per  square  kilometer,  with 
densities  much  higher  in  the  cities  (close  to  6,000  persons  per  square 
kilometer  in  the  Tel  Aviv  District  in  1986)  and  considerably  lower 
in  the  very  arid  regions  of  the  south.  The  population  continues  to 
be  overwhelmingly  urban.  Almost  90  percent  resides  in  urban  lo- 
calities, more  than  one-third  of  the  total  in  the  three  largest  cities 
(in  order  of  population),  Jerusalem,  Tel  Aviv,  and  Haifa.  Since 
1948,  despite  calls  throughout  the  1960s  to  "Judaize"  Galilee,  the 
population  has  been  shifting  southward.  Still,  as  of  1988,  almost 
two-thirds  of  the  population  was  concentrated  on  the  Mediterra- 
nean coast  between  Haifa  and  Ashdod. 

In  the  mid-1950s,  in  an  effort  both  to  disperse  the  population 
from  the  coast  and  settle  the  large  numbers  of  immigrants  coming 
from  Middle  Eastern  and  North  African  countries,  so-called  de- 
velopment towns  were  planned  and  built  over  the  next  fifteen  years. 
They  were  settled  primarily  by  Oriental  Jews,  or  Sephardim  (see 
Glossary)  and  through  the  years  they  have  often  been  arenas  of 
unrest  and  protest  among  ethnic  groups.  In  1986,  about  77  per- 
cent of  rural  Jews  lived  in  kibbutzim  and  moshavim;  still,  these 
two  rather  striking  Israeli  social  institutions  attracted  a  very  small 
percentage  (3.5  percent  and  4.4  percent,  respectively)  of  the  total 
Jewish  population. 


91 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


92 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

The  changing  distribution  of  population  was  more  pronounced 
among  Arabs.  Whereas  75  percent  of  the  Arabs  lived  in  rural 
localities  in  1948,  less  than  30  percent  did  by  1983.  This  pattern 
was  not  entirely  because  of  internal  migration  to  urban  areas,  but 
rather  resulted  from  the  urbanization  of  larger  Arab  villages.  For 
example,  in  1950  the  Arab  locality  of  Et  Taiyiba  near  Nabulus  had 
5,100  residents;  by  1986  its  population  had  risen  to  19,000.  Israeli 
Arabs  were  concentrated  in  central  and  western  Galilee,  around 
the  city  of  Nazareth,  and  in  the  city  of  Jaffa  (Yafo  in  Hebrew), 
northeast  of  Tel  Aviv.  Arabs  resided  also  in  Acre  (Akko  in  Hebrew), 
Lydda  (Lod  in  Hebrew),  Ramla,  Haifa,  and  near  Beersheba.  They 
constituted  the  majority  in  East  Jerusalem,  annexed  after  the  June 
1967  War. 

According  to  the  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  at  the  end  of  1986 
about  51,200  Jews  resided  in  the  the  West  Bank  occupied  territo- 
ries (called  Judea  and  Samaria  by  Jewish  Israelis),  and  an  addi- 
tional 2,100  resided  in  the  Gaza  Strip  (these  figures  represented 
1.4  percent  and  0.1  percent,  respectively,  of  the  1986  Jewish  popu- 
lation of  Israel).  They  lived  in  122  localities  in  both  areas,  includ- 
ing 4  cities,  10  kibbutzim,  31  moshavim,  and  77  "other  rural 
localities."  This  last  category  included  more  than  fifty  localities 
of  a  kind  called yishuv  kehilati,  a  nonagricultural  cooperative  settle- 
ment, a  form  new  to  Israel.  Such  settlements  were  associated  es- 
pecially with  Amana,  the  settlement  arm  of  Gush  Emunim,  and 
developed  in  the  mid-1970s  especially  to  enhance  Jewish  presence 
in  the  West  Bank.  According  to  the  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics, 
in  1985  about  7,094,  and  in  1986  approximately  5,160,  Jews  set- 
tled in  the  occupied  territories.  Some  did  so  for  religious  and  na- 
tionalistic reasons,  but  many  more  were  motivated  by  the  high  costs 
of  housing  inside  Israel,  combined  with  economic  incentives  offered 
by  the  Likud  governments  of  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s  to  those 
who  settled  in  the  West  Bank. 

The  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics  estimated  the  1986  Arab  popu- 
lation of  the  West  Bank  to  be  836,000,  and  that  of  Gaza  to  be 
545,000,  for  a  total  population  of  close  to  1.4  million.  In  1986  the 
population  increased  at  a  rate  of  2.5  percent  for  the  West  Bank 
and  3.4  percent  for  Gaza — among  the  highest  annual  rates  attained 
during  the  Israeli  occupation. 

Social  Structure 

The  social  structure  of  contemporary  Israel  has  been  shaped  by 
a  variety  of  forces  and  circumstances.  Israel  inherited  some  insti- 
tutions and  customs  from  the  Ottomans  and  some  from  the  Brit- 
ish mandatory  rule  over  Palestine.  Zionists  who  strove  to  build  the 


93 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


1948  Total  population  -  716.7  (in  thousands) 


European-American 
393 
(54.8%) 

African 

12.2 
(1.7%) 


Israeli 
253.7 
(35.4%) 

Asian 
57.8 
(8.1%) 


1972  Total  population  -  2,686.7  (in  thousands) 


European-American 
749.7 
(27.9%) 


African 
348.6 
(13%) 


Israeli 
1,272.3 
(47.3%) 


Asian 
316.1 
(11.8%) 


1 986  Total  population  -  3,561 .4  (in  thousands) 


European-American 
761.4 
(21.4%) 


African 
327.1 
(9.2%) 


Asian 
284.2 

(8%) 


Israeli 
2,188.7 
(61 .4%) 


European- 
American 


African 


ID  As 


lan 


Israeli 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Israel,  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Abstract 
of  Israel,  1987,  No.  38,  Jerusalem,  1987,  73. 


Figure  7.  Anal} sis  of 'Jewish  Population  Distribution  by  Origin,  1948,  1972, 
and  1986 


94 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Yishuv  under  Ottoman  and  British  rule  (see  Origins  of  Zionism, 
ch.  1)  also  wielded  influence.  Immigration  patterns  have  altered 
the  social  structure  radically  at  different  times.  From  1882  to  1948, 
Israel  received  many  immigrants  from  Eastern  Europe  and  Cen- 
tral Europe.  Following  independence,  huge  numbers  of  Middle 
Eastern,  North  African,  and  Asian  Jews  came  to  the  new  state  and 
altered  its  dominant  Ashkenazi  cast.  Another  shaping  force  was 
the  presence  of  non-Jews  in  the  Jewish  state — a  growing  Arab 
minority  within  the  pre- 1967  borders  of  Israel  and  an  absolute 
majority  in  the  territories  held  under  military  occupation  since  the 
June  1967  War.  Finally,  among  the  most  important  forces  shap- 
ing contemporary  Israeli  society  is  religion. 

Varieties  of  Israeli  Judaism 

As  the  references  to  ''Orthodox  Zionists,"  "Orthodox  non- 
Zionists,"  and  "Orthodox  anti-Zionists"  indicate,  Judaism  is  not 
a  monolithic  cultural  entity  in  contemporary  Israel.  Furthermore, 
an  understanding  of  religious  categories  in  American  Judaism  is 
not  sufficient  for  understanding  Israeli  Judaism.  Israelis  religiously 
categorize  themselves  first  as  dati,  that  is,  "religiously"  observant 
Jews  or  lo  dati,  "not  religiously"  observant  Jews.  One  who  is  reli- 
gious strictiy  follows  halakah,  that  is,  adheres  to  the  totality  of  rab- 
binic law.  One  who  is  not  religious  is  not  a  strict  follower  of  rabbinic 
law;  however,  the  category  can  be  further  subdivided  into  agnos- 
tic or  atheistic  secularists,  on  the  one  hand,  and  individuals  who 
are  committed  to  Judaism  in  principle,  on  the  other.  The  latter 
group  calls  itself  "traditionalist"  (mesoratim) . 

Many  Oriental  Jews,  especially  in  the  second  generation  since 
immigration,  are  traditionalists,  expressing  this  commitment  in  ob- 
servance of  folk  customs  such  as  ethnic  festivals  and  pilgrimages. 
This  group  is  important  because,  although  members  may  not  vote 
directly  for  religious  political  parties,  they  respond  positively  to  re- 
ligious symbols  used  politically  by  a  number  of  parties;  for  exam- 
ple, the  idea  of  the  Jewish  people's  right  to  a  greater,  biblical  land 
of  Israel  as  divinely  ordained. 

Orthodox  Judaism 

Within  the  Orthodox  or  dati  category  one  can  distinguish  be- 
tween the  ultra-Orthodox  or  haredi,  and  the  "modern"  or  "neo- 
Orthodox."  At  the  very  extreme,  the  ultra-Orthodox  consists  of 
groups  such  as  the  Neturei  Karta,  a  small  fringe  group  of  anti- 
Zionist  extremists,  who  reject  Israel  and  view  it  as  a  heretical  entity. 
They  want  nothing  to  do  with  the  state  and  live  in  enclaves  (Mea 
Shearim  in  Jerusalem  and  towns  such  as  Bene  Beraq),  where  they 


95 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

shut  out  the  secular  modern  world  as  much  as  possible.  Neverthe- 
less, among  the  ultra-Orthodox  one  can  also  count  some  of  the  ad- 
herents of  the  Agudat  Israel  Party,  who  accept  the  state,  although 
not  its  messianic  pretensions,  and  work  within  many  of  its  institu- 
tions. These  adherents  are  exempt  from  compulsory  military  service 
and  do  not  volunteer  for  police  work,  yet  they  demand  that  the 
state  protect  their  way  of  life,  a  political  arrangement  known  as 
the  "preservation  of  the  status  quo"  (see  The  Role  of  Judaism, 
this  ch.).  In  practice,  they  live  in  the  same  neighborhoods  as  the 
more  extreme  haredi  and  maintain  their  own  schools,  rabbinical 
courts,  charitable  institutions,  and  so  on.  The  state  has  not  only 
committed  itself  to  protecting  the  separate  institutions  of  different 
Orthodox  Jewish  groups  but  also,  especially  since  1977,  to  their 
financial  subvention. 

The  modern  or  neo-Orthodox  are  those  who,  while  scrupulously 
adhering  to  halakah,  have  not  cut  themselves  off  from  society  at 
large.  They  are  oriented  to  the  same  ideological  goals  as  many  of 
the  secularists,  and  they  share  the  basic  commitment  to  Israel  as 
a  Zionist  state.  Furthermore,  they  participate  fully  in  all  the  major 
institutions  of  the  state,  including  the  Israel  Defense  Forces  (IDF). 
This  group  is  also  referred  to  as  "Orthodox  Zionists."  They  have 
been  represented  historically  by  a  number  of  political  parties  or 
coalitions,  and  have  been  the  driving  force  behind  many  of  the 
extraparliamentary  social,  political,  and  Jewish  terrorist  move- 
ments that  have  characterized  Israeli  society  since  the  June  1967 
War  (see  Extraparliamentary  Religio-nationalist  Movements, 
ch.  4).  Most  Orthodox  Zionists  have  been  "ultra-hawkish"  and 
irredentist  in  orientation;  Gush  Emunim,  the  Bloc  of  the  Faithful, 
is  the  most  prominent  of  these  groups.  A  minority  of  other  Zionist 
groups,  for  example,  Oz  Veshalom,  an  Orthodox  Zionist  move- 
ment that  is  the  religious  counterpart  to  Peace  Now,  has  been  more 
moderate. 

Relations  between  the  ultra-Orthodox  and  the  neo-Orthodox 
have  been  complicated  and  not  always  cordial.  Nevertheless,  the 
neo-Orthodox  have  tended  to  look  to  the  ultra-Orthodox  for 
legitimacy  on  religious  matters,  and  the  ultra-Orthodox  have 
managed  to  maintain  their  virtual  monopoly  on  the  training  and 
certification  of  rabbis  (including  neo-Orthodox  ones)  in  Israel.  (The 
neo-Orthodox  university,  Bar-Ilan,  as  part  of  the  parliamentary 
legislation  that  enabled  it,  was  prohibited  from  ordaining  rabbis.) 
Thus  ultra-Orthodoxy  has  an  aura  of  ultimate  authenticity,  a  spe- 
cial connection  to  tradition  that  has  been  difficult  for  others  to  over- 
come. Even  a  staunch  secularist  such  as  David  Ben-Gurion 
lamented  during  a  confrontation  that  the  ultra-Orthodox  "look  like 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


our  grandfathers.  How  can  you  slap  your  grandfather  into  jail,  even 
if  he  throws  stones  at  you?" 

Non-Orthodox  Judaism 

The  American  denominations  of  Conservative  Jews  (see  Glos- 
sary) and  Reform  Jews  (see  Glossary),  although  they  have  enrolled 
between  them  the  vast  majority  of  affiliated  American  Jews,  have 
achieved  a  very  modest  presence  in  Israel.  Neither  Reform  nor  Con- 
servative rabbinical  ordination  is  recognized  by  the  Israeli  Chief 
Rabbinate;  thus,  these  rabbis  are  generally  forbidden  to  perform 
weddings  or  authorize  divorces.  (In  the  mid-1980s  a  few  Conser- 
vative rabbis  were  granted  the  right,  on  an  ad  hoc  basis,  to  per- 
form weddings.)  In  the  early  1980s,  there  were  twelve  Reform 
congregations  in  Israel  and  about  900  members — almost  90  per- 
cent of  whom  were  born  outside  the  country.  During  the  same 
period  there  were  more  than  twenty  Conservative  congregations 
with  more  than  1 ,500  members;  only  about  14  percent  were  native- 
born  Israelis  (and,  as  in  the  case  of  Reform,  the  great  majority 
of  these  were  of  Ashkenazi  descent). 

Although  both  Reform  and  Conservative  movements  dated  their 
presence  in  Israel  to  the  1930s,  they  experienced  real  growth,  the 
Conservative  movement  in  particular,  only  in  the  late  1960s  to 
mid-1970s.  During  this  period,  relatively  large  numbers  of  Ameri- 
can Jews  immigrated — more  than  36,000  between  1968  and  1975. 
Nevertheless,  the  opposition  of  the  Israeli  Orthodox  establishment 
to  recognizing  Conservative  and  (particularly)  Reform  Judaism  as 
legitimate  was  strong,  and  it  continued  to  be  unwilling  to  share 
power  and  patronage  with  these  movements.  Neither  of  the  newer 
movements  has  attracted  native-born  Israelis  in  significant  num- 
bers. The  importance  of  the  non-Orthodox  movements  in  Israel 
in  the  late  1980s  mainly  reflects  the  influence  they  have  wielded 
in  the  American  and  West  European  Diaspora. 

The  Role  of  Judaism 

In  1988  two-thirds  to  three-quarters  of  Jewish  Israelis  were  not 
religious  or  Orthodox  in  observance  or  practice.  Among  the  minor- 
ity of  the  religious  who  were  the  most  extreme  in  their  adherence 
to  Judaism — the  haredi — the  very  existence  of  Israel  as  a  self- 
proclaimed  Jewish  state  was  anathema  because  Israel  is  for  them 
(ironically,  as  it  is  for  many  Arabs)  a  wholly  illegitimate  entity. 
Given  these  facts — the  large  number  of  secular  Israelis,  and  the 
sometimes  fierce  denunciation  of  the  state  by  a  small  number  of 
the  most  religious  extremists — one  might  expect  Judaism  to  play 
a  modest  role  in  Israeli  society  and  culture.  But  the  opposite 


97 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


is  true;  traditional  Judaism  has  been  playing  a  more  dominant  role 
since  the  late  1960s  and  affecting  more  of  the  political  and  eco- 
nomic dimensions  of  everyday  life  (see  Prospects  for  Electoral  Re- 
form, ch.  4). 

The  relation  between  Judaism  and  the  Jewish  state  has  always 
been  ambivalent  and  fraught  with  paradox.  In  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury, Zionism  often  competed  with  Orthodox  Judaism  for  the  hearts 
and  minds  of  young  Jews,  and  enmity  existed  between  Orthodox 
Jews  of  Eastern  Europe  and  the  Zionists  (and  those  residing  in  Pales- 
tine in  the  late  nineteenth  and  early  twentieth  centuries).  Ortho- 
dox Jews  resented  the  dominantly  secular  nature  of  Jewish 
nationalism  (for  example,  the  desire  to  turn  the  holy  tongue  of 
Hebrew  into  an  instrument  of  everyday  discourse),  whereas  the 
Zionists  derogated  the  other-worldly  passivity  of  Orthodox  Jews. 
Among  the  most  extreme  Orthodox  Jews,  the  Zionist  movement 
was  deemed  heretical  because  it  sought  to  *  'force  the  End  of  Days" 
and  preempt  the  hand  of  God  in  restoring  the  Jewish  people  to 
their  Holy  Land  before  the  Messiah's  advent. 

Nevertheless,  for  all  its  secular  trappings,  Zionism  as  an  ideology 
was  also  profoundly  tied  to  Jewish  tradition — as  its  commitment 
to  the  revival  of  the  Jews'  biblical  language,  and,  indeed,  its  com- 
mitment to  settle  for  nothing  less  than  a  Jewish  home  in  biblical 
Palestine  indicate.  Thus,  secular  Zionism  and  religious  Judaism 
are  inextricably  linked,  and  hence  the  conceptual  ambivalence  and 
paradoxes  of  enmity  and  attraction. 

In  any  case,  conceptual  difficulties  have  been  suspended  by  world 
events:  the  violence  of  the  pogroms  in  Eastern  Europe  throughout 
the  nineteenth  and  early  twentieth  centuries,  and  the  Holocaust 
carried  out  by  Nazi  Germany,  in  which  approximately  6  million 
Jews  were  killed,  nearly  destroying  Central  and  East  European 
Jewry  in  the  1930s  and  1940s.  In  the  face  of  such  suffering — and 
especially  after  the  magnitude  of  the  Holocaust  became  known — 
Orthodox  and  non-Orthodox  Jews  devised  ways  to  work  together 
in  Palestine  despite  their  fundamental  differences.  When  the  ad- 
vent of  the  state  was  followed  immediately  by  invasion  and  lasting 
Arab  hostility,  this  cooperative  modus  vivendi  in  the  face  of  a  com- 
mon enemy  continued. 

The  spearheads  of  cooperation  on  the  Orthodox  side  were  the 
so-called  religious  Zionists,  who  were  able  to  reconcile  their  na- 
tionalism with  their  piety.  Following  Rabbi  A.I.  Kook  (1865-1935), 
the  first  Ashkenazi  chief  rabbi  of  Palestine,  many  believed  that 
Zionism  and  Zionists,  however  secular,  were  nonetheless  instru- 
ments of  God  who  were  engaged  in  divinely  inspired  work.  On 
a  more  pragmatic  level,  under  leadership  such  as  that  of  Rabbi 


98 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


I.J.  Reines  (1839-1915),  the  religious,  like  the  secularists,  organized 
in  political  parties,  such  as  the  Mizrahi  Party  (see  Religious  Par- 
ties, ch.  4).  They  were  joined  in  the  political  arena  by  the  non- 
Zionist  Orthodox,  organized  as  the  Agudat  Israel  Party.  Although 
Agudat  Israel  was  originally  opposed  to  the  idea  of  a  Jewish  state, 
it  came  to  accept  the  rationale  for  it  in  a  hostile  gentile  world  (es- 
pecially after  the  Central  and  East  European  centers  of  Orthodoxy 
were  destroyed  in  the  Holocaust).  Because  Orthodox  Jews,  like 
secularists,  were  organized  in  political  parties,  from  an  early  date 
they  participated — the  religious  Zionists  more  directly  than  the  re- 
ligious non-Zionists — in  the  central  institutions  of  the  Yishuv  and, 
later,  the  State  of  Israel.  Indeed,  since  1977  and  the  coming  to  power 
of  Menachem  Begin 's  Likud,  Orthodox  Jews  have  been  increas- 
ingly vocal  in  their  desire  not  just  to  participate  in  but  also  to 
shape — reshape,  if  need  be — the  central  institutions  of  Israeli 
society. 

Judaism,  Civil  Religion,  and  the  "New  Zionism" 

All  varieties  of  Judaism — ultra-Orthodoxy,  neo-Orthodoxy,  the 
Reform  and  Conservative  forms — together  counted  as  their  for- 
mal adherents  only  a  minority  of  Jewish  Israelis.  Yet  religion  was 
a  potent  force,  and  increasingly  so,  in  Israeli  society.  Traditional 
Judaism  has  exerted  its  influence  in  Israel  in  three  important  ways. 
First,  traditional  Judaism  has  influenced  political  and  judicial  legis- 
lation and  state  institutions,  which  have  been  championed  by  the 
various  Orthodox  political  parties  and  enshrined  in  the  "preser- 
vation of  the  status  quo"  arrangements  through  the  years.  Second, 
religion  has  exerted  influence  through  the  symbols  and  practices 
of  traditional  Judaism  that  literally  pervade  everyday  life.  Satur- 
day is  the  sabbath  (Shabbat — see  Glossary),  the  official  day  of  rest 
for  Jews  (although  the  majority  do  not  attend  synagogue),  and  most 
enterprises  are  closed.  Jewish  holidays  also  affect  school  curricula, 
programming  on  radio  and  television,  features  in  the  newspapers, 
and  so  on.  Traditionalists,  who  extol  halakah  even  if  they  do  not 
observe  all  rabbinic  law,  also  observe  many  folk  customs.  Through 
the  years,  much  of  the  folk  religion  has  taken  on  an  Oriental- 
Jewish  flavor,  reflecting  in  part  the  demographic  preponderance 
of  Oriental  Jews  since  the  1970s.  Such  customs  include  ethnic 
festivals  such  as  the  Moroccan  mimouna  (an  annual  festival  of 
Moroccan  Jews,  originally  a  minor  holiday  in  Morocco,  which  has 
become  in  Israel  a  major  celebration  of  Moroccan  Jewish  ethnic 
identity)  and  family  pilgrimages  to  the  tombs  of  Jewish  holy 
men.  The  latter  have  become  country- wide  events.  Traditional 
Judaism  has  influenced  Israeli  society  in  yet  a  third  way:  Israel's 


99 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

political  elite  has  selectively  co-opted  symbols  and  practices  of  tradi- 
tional Judaism  in  an  attempt  to  promote  nationalism  and  social 
integration.  In  this  way  traditional  Judaism,  or  some  aspects  of 
it,  becomes  part  of  the  political  culture  of  the  Jewish  state,  and 
aspects  of  traditional  Judaism  are  then  enlisted  in  what  some 
analysts  have  called  the  "civil  religion"  of  Jewish  society.  Thus, 
Judaism  speaks  to  Israelis  who  may  themselves  be  nonreligious, 
indeed  even  secularist. 

Of  all  the  manifestations  of  religion  in  Israel,  civil  religion  has 
undergone  the  most  profound  changes  through  the  years,  specifi- 
cally becoming  more  religious — in  the  sense  of  incorporating  more 
traditional,  Orthodox-like  Judaism.  In  the  prestate  period,  the  civil 
religion  of  Jewish  society  was  generally  socialist,  that  is,  Labor 
Zionism.  Labor  Zionists  were  hostile  to  much  of  traditional  Jew- 
ish life,  to  the  concept  of  exile,  and  to  what  they  viewed  as  the  cul- 
tural obscurantism  of  traditional  Jews.  They  actively  rejected 
Orthodoxy  in  religion  and  considered  it  to  be  a  key  reason  for  the 
inertia  and  lack  of  modernity  of  exiled  Jews.  Labor  Zionists  sought 
to  reconstitute  a  revolutionary  new  form  of  Jewish  person  in  a  radi- 
cally new  kind  of  society. 

After  1948,  however,  new  problems  faced  Israeli  society — not 
only  military  and  economic  problems,  but  also  the  massive  immigra- 
tion of  Jews  and  their  assimilation.  First  came  the  remnants  of  East 
and  Central  European  Jewry  from  the  detention  and  displaced- 
persons  camps;  then  came  Jews  from  Africa  and  Asia  (see  Ingather- 
ing of  the  Exiles,  ch.  1).  Social  integration  and  solidarity  were 
essential  to  successful  assimilation,  yet  Labor  Zionism  neither  ap- 
pealed to  nor  united  many  sectors  of  the  new  society.  Throughout 
the  1950s  and  early  1960s — roughly  the  period  of  Ben-Gurion's 
preeminence — a  civil  religion  was  fashioned  by  some  factions  of 
the  political  elite  (led  by  Ben-Gurion  himself),  which  sought  to  stress 
the  new  Israeli  state  as  the  object  of  ultimate  value. 

Israelis  have  called  this  the  period  of  mamlakhtiyut  or  statism.  The 
Jewish  Bible  was  the  key  text  and  symbol,  and  secular  youths 
studied  parts  of  it  as  the  Jewish  nation's  history  and  cultural 
heritage.  Religious  holidays,  such  as  Hanukkah  and  Passover,  or 
Pesach,  were  reinterpreted  to  emphasize  nationalist  and  liberation 
themes,  and  Independence  Day  was  promoted  as  a  holiday  of  stat- 
ure equal  to  the  old  religious  holidays.  The  archaeology  of  the  Holy 
Land,  particularly  during  the  Israelite  (post-Joshua)  period,  be- 
came a  national  obsession,  first  because  of  the  discovery  of  the  Dead 
Sea  Scrolls  and  later  because  of  Yigal  Yadin's  excavations  at  Mas- 
sada  (a  site  of  fierce  Jewish  resistance  to  the  Romans  after  the  fall 
of  Jerusalem  in  70  A.D.).  At  the  same  time,  the  two  thousand  years 


100 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


of  Jewish  history  that  followed  the  Roman  destruction  of  Jerusa- 
lem, Jewish  cultural  life  in  the  various  diasporas  (Ashkenazi  as  well 
as  Sephardi),  and  Jewish  religion  of  the  postbiblical  eras  (rabbinic 
Judaism,  exemplified  in  the  Talmud — see  Glossary)  were  rejected 
or  ignored. 

For  many  reasons,  the  statist  focus  of  Israeli  civil  religion  did 
not  continue  after  the  June  1967  War.  These  reasons  ranged  from 
the  greater  traditionalism  and  piety  of  the  Oriental  immigrants, 
who  were  never  satisfactorily  engaged  by  the  more  limited  scope 
of  statism;  to  the  exhaustion  of  the  Labor  Alignment,  which,  after 
the  October  1973  War,  had  sought  to  embody  socialist  Zionism 
and  Israeli  modern  statism  as  a  manifestation  of  its  own  identity 
and  agenda;  to  the  rise  of  Begin's  Likud  Bloc  with  its  populist  ap- 
peals to  ethnic  traditionalism  and  an  irredentist  territorial  program 
as  a  challenge  to  Labor  Zionism's  fading  hegemony.  Begin  and 
his  Likud  championed  a  new  civil  religion  to  embody  its  identity 
and  agenda.  This  new  right-wing  civil  religion  affirmed  traditional 
Judaism  and  denigrated  modernistic  secularism — the  reverse  of  the 
earlier  civil  religion.  Unlike  the  statist  version  of  Ben-Gurion's  time, 
which  focused  on  the  Bible  and  pre-exilic  Jewish  history,  the  new 
civil  religion  was  permeated  by  symbols  from  the  whole  of  Jewish 
history.  It  gave  special  emphasis,  however,  to  the  Holocaust  as  a 
sign  of  the  ultimate  isolation  of  the  Jewish  people  and  the  endur- 
ing hostility  of  the  gentile  world. 

The  new  civil  religion  (which  in  its  more  political  guise  some 
have  called  the  New  Zionism)  has  brought  traditional  Judaism  back 
to  a  position  in  the  Jewish  state  very  different  from  that  which  it 
occupied  twenty,  forty,  or  eighty  years  ago.  After  the  June  1967 
War,  the  New  Zionists  linked  up  with  the  revitalized  and  trans- 
formed neo-Orthodox — young,  self-assured  religious  Jews  who  have 
self-consciously  connected  retention  and  Jewish  settlement  of  the 
West  Bank,  the  biblical  Judea  and  Samaria,  with  the  Messiah's 
advent.  The  rise  of  messianic  right-wing  politics  gave  birth  in  the 
mid-1970s  to  the  irredentist,  extraparliamentary  movement  Gush 
Emunim,  which  in  turn  led  to  the  Jewish  terrorist  underground 
of  the  1980s  (see  Jewish  Terrorist  Organizations,  ch.  5).  When  the 
underground  was  uncovered  and  broken  by  Israeli  security  in  April 
1984,  it  had  already  carried  out  several  attacks  on  Arabs,  includ- 
ing, it  was  thought,  Arab  mayors,  in  the  West  Bank  and  was  plan- 
ning to  destroy  the  Dome  of  the  Rock  mosque  in  Jerusalem.  Even 
before  the  June  1967  War,  however,  Orthodox  Judaism  had  been 
able  to  exert  influence  on  Israeli  society  simply  because  its  reli- 
gious institutions  were  so  historically  entrenched  in  the  society. 


101 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Religious  Institutions 

The  basis  of  all  religious  institutions  in  Israel  dates  back  to  the 
Ottoman  Empire  (1402-1921)  and  its  system  of  confessional  group 
autonomy  called  the  millet  system.  Under  the  millet,  each  religious 
group  was  allowed  limited  independence  in  running  its  own  com- 
munity under  a  recognized  (usually  religious)  leader  who  repre- 
sented the  community  politically  to  the  imperial  authorities.  Matters 
of  law  relating  to  personal  status — marriage,  divorce,  inheritance, 
legitimacy  of  children — were  also  left  to  community  control,  so  long 
as  they  did  not  involve  a  Muslim,  in  which  case  the  sharia  (Islamic 
law)  courts  took  precedence. 

The  Jewish  community  in  Ottoman  Palestine  was  represented 
by  its  chief  rabbi,  called  the  Hakham  Rashi  or  Rishon  Le  Tziyyon 
(the  First  in  Zion),  who  was  a  Sephardi.  The  Orthodox  Ashkena- 
zim  in  Ottoman  Palestine,  who  never  formed  a  unified  commun- 
ity, resented  Sephardi  preeminence.  The  secular  European  Jews 
who  began  to  arrive  in  large  numbers  after  1882  ignored  the  con- 
straints of  the  millet  system  and  the  standing  of  the  chief  rabbi  and 
his  council  as  best  they  could. 

Under  their  League  of  Nations  Mandate  over  Palestine,  the  Brit- 
ish retained  this  system  of  religious  courts  (the  Jewish  Agency  be- 
came the  political  representative  of  the  Yishuv  as  a  whole).  In 
recognition  of  the  growing  numerical  preponderance  of  Ashkena- 
zim,  however,  the  British  recommended  the  formation  of  a  joint 
chief  rabbinate,  one  Sephardi  and  one  Ashkenazi,  and  a  joint  chief 
rabbinical  council.  This  system  was  implemented  in  1921,  together 
with  a  hierarchical  court  structure  composed  of  local  courts,  regional 
appellate  courts,  and  the  joint  Supreme  Rabbinical  Court  in  Jerusa- 
lem. After  Israel's  independence — even  with  the  establishment  of 
autonomous  secular  and  military  judiciaries — this  system  of  rab- 
binical courts  prevailed.  An  addition  to  the  system  was  a  Ministry 
of  Religious  Affairs  under  the  control  of  the  religious  political  party 
that  sat  in  coalition  to  form  the  government,  originally  Mizrahi 
and  later  the  National  Religious  Party  (see  The  Judicial  System; 
Multiparty  System,  ch.  4). 

In  1988,  in  addition  to  the  two  chief  rabbis  and  their  Chief  Rab- 
binical Council,  local  chief  rabbis  were  based  in  the  larger  cities 
(again,  generally  two,  one  Ashkenazi  and  one  Sephardi)  and  on 
local  religious  councils.  These  councils  (under  the  Ministry  of 
Religious  Affairs)  functioned  as  administrative  bodies  and  provided 
religious  services.  They  supervised  dietary  laws  (kashrut)  in  pub- 
lic institutions,  inspected  slaughterhouses,  maintained  ritual 
baths,  and  supported  synagogues — about  5,000  of  them — and  their 


102 


A  Druze  elder 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Israel, 
Washington 


Samaritan  priest  and 
followers  on  a 
holy  day  of  sacrifice 
Courtesy  Les  Vogel 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


officials.  They  also  registered  marriages  and  divorces,  that  is,  legal 
matters  of  personal  status  that  came  under  their  jurisdiction. 

Israel's  Proclamation  of  Independence  guarantees  freedom  of 
religion  for  all  groups  within  the  society.  Thus,  the  Ministry  of 
Religious  Affairs  also  supervised  and  supported  the  local  religious 
councils  and  religious  courts  of  the  non-Jewish  population:  Chris- 
tian, Druze,  and  Muslim.  As  in  Ottoman  times,  the  autonomy  of 
the  confessional  groups  is  maintained  in  matters  of  religion  and 
personal  status,  although  all  courts  are  subject  to  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  (secular)  Supreme  Court.  (This  was  true  technically  even 
of  Jewish  rabbinical  courts,  but  outright  confrontation  or  imposi- 
tion of  secular  appellate  review  was,  in  fact,  avoided.)  Among  Chris- 
tians, the  Greek  Catholic,  Greek  Orthodox,  Latin,  Maronite,  and 
Arab  Anglican  groups  operated  their  own  courts.  In  1962  a  separate 
system  of  Druze  courts  was  established.  Sunni  Muslim  (see  Glos- 
sary) judges  (qadis)  presided  over  courts  that  followed  sharia. 

The  Ministry  of  Religious  Affairs  also  exerted  control  over  Mus- 
lim religious  endowments  (waqfs),  and  for  this  reason  has  been  a 
political  presence  in  Muslim  communities.  The  ministry  tradition- 
ally was  a  portfolio  held  by  the  National  Religious  Party,  which 
at  times  also  controlled  the  Arab  departments  in  the  Ministry  of 
Interior  and  the  Ministry  of  Social  Welfare.  This  helped  to  account 
for  the  otherwise  paradoxical  fact  that  some  Arabs — 8.2  percent 
of  voters  in  1973 — supported  the  neo-Orthodox,  Zionist,  Nation- 
alist Religious  Party  in  elections. 

Besides  Christian,  Muslim,  and  Druze  courts,  there  was  yet 
another  system  of  Orthodox  Jewish  courts  that  ran  parallel  to,  and 
independently  of,  the  rabbinate  courts.  These  courts  served  the 
ultra-Orthodox  (non-Zionist  Agudat  Israel  as  well  as  anti-Zionist 
Neturei  Karta  and  other  groups)  because  the  ultra-Orthodox  had 
never  accepted  the  authority  or  even  the  legitimacy  of  the  official, 
state-sponsored  (pro-Zionist,  neo-Orthodox)  rabbinate  and  the 
Ministry  of  Religious  Affairs.  In  place  of  the  rabbinate  and  rab- 
binical council,  Agudat  Israel  and  the  community  it  represented 
were  guided  by  a  Council  of  Torah  Sages,  which  functioned  also 
as  the  highest  rabbinical  court  for  the  ultra-Orthodox.  The  mem- 
bers of  this  council  represent  the  pinnacle  of  religious  learning 
(rather  than  political  connections,  as  was  alleged  for  the  rabbinate) 
in  the  ultra-Orthodox  community.  The  council  also  oversaw  for 
its  community  inspectors  of  kashrut,  ritual  slaughterers,  ritual  baths, 
and  schools — all  independent  of  the  rabbinate  and  the  Ministry 
of  Religious  Affairs. 

In  1983  this  state  of  affairs  was  even  further  complicated  when 
the  former  Sephardi  chief  rabbi,  Ovadia  Yoseph,  angry  at  not  being 


104 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


reelected  to  this  post,  withdrew  from  the  rabbinate  to  set  up  his 
own  Sephardic  ultra-Orthodox  council  and  political  party,  called 
Shas  (an  acronym  for  Sephardic  Torah  Guardians).  Shas  ran  suc- 
cessfully in  the  1983  Jerusalem  municipal  elections,  winning  three 
of  twenty-one  seats,  and  later  in  the  national  Knesset  (parliament) 
elections  in  1984,  where  it  cut  deeply  into  Agudat  Israel's  hold  on 
ultra-Orthodox  Oriental  voters.  Shas  won  four  seats  in  1984, 
Agudat  Israel  only  two  (see  Religious  Parties,  ch.  4).  In  this  con- 
text, Shas's  importance  lay  in  the  fact  that  it  split  the  Oriental  ultra- 
Orthodox  from  Ashkenazi  domination  under  Agudat  Israel,  adding 
yet  another  institutionalized  variety  of  Israeli  traditional  Judaism 
to  an  already  complicated  mix. 

The  practical  result  of  all  these  separate  and  semiautonomous 
judiciaries  based  on  religious  grounds  was  that,  for  a  large  area 
of  law  dealing  with  matters  of  personal  status,  there  was  no  civil 
code  or  judiciary  that  applied  to  all  Israeli  citizens.  Marriages, 
divorces,  adoptions,  wills,  and  inheritance  were  all  matters  for  ad- 
judication by  Christian  clerics,  Muslim  qadis,  or  dayanim  (sing., 
dayan;  Jewish  religious  judge).  An  essential  practical  difficulty  was 
that,  in  strictly  legal  terms,  marriages  across  confessional  lines  were 
problematic.  Another  result  was  that  citizens  found  themselves 
under  the  jurisdiction  of  religious  authorities  even  if  they  were  them- 
selves secular.  This  situation  has  posed  the  greatest  problem  for 
the  Jewish  majority,  not  only  because  most  Jewish  Israelis  are 
neither  religiously  observant  nor  Orthodox,  but  also  because  the 
hegemony  of  Orthodox  halakah  has  from  time  to  time  forced  the 
raising  of  issues  of  fundamental  concern  to  modern  Israel.  Fore- 
most among  these  has  been  the  issue  of  "Who  is  a  Jew?"  in  the 
Jewish  state. 

The  "Who  Is  a  Jew?"  Controversy 

The  predominance  of  halakah  and  religious  courts  in  adjudicat- 
ing matters  of  personal  status — and  for  that  matter,  the  privileged 
position  of  the  Orthodox  minority  in  Israeli  society — date  back  to 
arrangements  worked  out  between  the  Orthodox  and  Labor  Zionists 
on  the  eve  of  statehood.  In  June  1947,  the  executive  committee 
of  Agudat  Israel  received  a  letter  from  Ben-Gurion,  then  chair- 
man of  the  executive  committee  of  the  Jewish  Agency,  who  was 
the  predominant  political  leader  of  the  Yishuv.  Ben-Gurion,  wishing 
to  have  the  support  of  all  sectors  of  the  Yishuv  in  the  dire  struggle 
he  knew  was  soon  to  come,  asked  Agudat  Israel  to  join  the  coali- 
tion that  would  constitute  the  first  government  of  the  State  of  Is- 
rael. In  return  for  Agudat  Israel's  support,  Ben-Gurion  offered  a 
set  of  guarantees  relating  to  traditional  Judaism's  place  in  the  new 


105 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

society.  These  guarantees  formalized  the  customary  arrangements 
that  had  developed  in  Ottoman  times  and  continued  through  the 
British  Mandate;  hence  they  came  to  be  known  as  agreements  for 
the  "preservation  of  the  status  quo." 

The  core  of  the  status  quo  agreements  focused  on  the  following 
areas:  the  Jewish  Shabbat,  Saturday,  would  be  the  official  day  of 
rest  for  all  Jews;  public  transportation  would  not  operate  nation- 
wide on  Shabbat  and  religious  holidays,  although  localities  would 
remain  free  to  run  local  transportation  systems;  kashrut  would  be 
maintained  in  all  public  institutions;  the  existing  religious  school 
system  would  remain  separate  from  the  secular  one  but  would 
receive  funding  from  the  state;  and  rabbinical  courts  applying 
halakah  would  decide  matters  of  personal  status  (see  Education, 
this  ch.).  Both  Agudat  Israel  and  the  Zionist  Orthodox  party, 
Mizrahi  (later  the  National  Religious  Party),  accepted  the  agree- 
ments and  joined  the  first  elected  government  of  Israel  in  1949. 

Ben-Gurion's  concern  that  a  more-or-less  united  Israel  confront 
its  enemies  was  answered  by  the  status  quo  arrangement.  But  this 
arrangement — particularly  the  educational  and  judicial  aspects — 
also  set  the  stage  for  conflict  between  Orthodox  and  secular  Jew- 
ish Israelis.  This  conflict  became  quickly  apparent  in  the  wake  of 
the  first  flood  of  Jewish  immigration  to  the  new  state  and  as  a  direct 
result  of  one  of  the  first  laws  passed  by  the  new  Knesset,  the  Law 
of  Return. 

The  Law  of  Return,  passed  in  1950,  guaranteed  to  all  Jews  the 
right  to  immigrate  to  Israel.  Along  with  the  Nationality  Law  (1952), 
which  granted  Israeli  citizenship  to  people  (including  non-Jews) 
who  lived  in  the  country  prior  to  1948,  the  Law  of  Return  also 
extended  to  Jewish  immigrants  (unless  they  specifically  deferred 
citizenship  or  renounced  it)  immediate  Israeli  citizenship.  Non- 
Jewish  immigrants  could  acquire  citizenship  through  a  slower 
process  of  naturalization. 

The  problem  of  what  constitutes  Jewish  "nationality"  {leorri)  was 
essentially  new.  Before  the  modern  era,  one  was  a  Jew  (in  the  eyes 
of  Jews  and  gentiles  alike)  by  religious  criteria;  to  renounce  the 
religion  meant  renouncing  one's  membership  in  the  community. 
In  modern  nation- states  membership  (citizenship)  and  religion  were 
formally  and,  it  was  hoped,  conceptually  independent:  one  could 
be  a  British,  French,  or  American  citizen  of  the  "Jewish  persua- 
sion." But  the  modern  State  of  Israel  presented  special  opportu- 
nities to  Jews — the  right  to  settle  in  the  country  and  claim  Israeli 
citizenship  as  a  right,  in  Ben-Gurion's  words,  "inherent  in  being 
a  Jew."  With  these  opportunities  have  come  problems,  both  for- 
mal and  conceptual,  about  the  definition  of  "a  Jew." 


106 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


A  halakic  definition  is  available:  a  Jew  is  one  who  is  born  of  a 
Jewish  mother  or  who  converts  according  to  the  halakah.  The  tradi- 
tional criteria  thus  consist  of  biology  (descent)  and  religion.  In  a 
sense,  biology  dominates  religion,  because,  according  to  halakah, 
someone  remains  a  Jew  if  born  of  a  Jewish  mother,  even  if  he  or 
she  converts  to  another  religion,  although  such  a  person  is  referred 
to  as  "one  who  has  destroyed  himself." 

Another  problem  is  that  of  defining  "nationality. ' '  Such  an  issue 
is  of  concern  to  a  modern  state  and  its  minister  of  interior. 
Moreover,  a  modern  state  is  interested  in  the  nationality  question 
as  part  of  the  determination  of  citizenship,  with  all  its  associated 
rights  and  duties.  The  Orthodox,  however,  are  less  concerned  with 
nationality  as  a  guide  to  citizenship  and  more  concerned  with 
nationality  as  it  determines  proper  marriage  partners,  with  the 
attendant  legitimacy  of  children.  In  Orthodox  Judaism  an  illegiti- 
mate child  (mamzer;  pi.,  mamzerim)  is  severely  limited  in  the  range 
of  permissible  marriage  partners;  the  children  of  mamzerim  are 
("even  to  the  tenth  generation,"  according  to  Deuteronomy  23:2) 
themselves  illegitimate.  Furthermore,  a  woman  who  has  not  been 
divorced  according  to  halakah  will  have  mamzerim  as  the  children 
of  subsequent  marriages.  Rabbis  would  never  knowingly  sanctify 
the  marriage  of  improper  or  forbidden  partners,  nor  would  such 
improper  unions  hold  up  in  rabbinical  courts.  For  the  Orthodox, 
therefore,  to  know,  as  assuredly  as  one  can,  the  status  of  a  poten- 
tial marriage  partner  as  a  "full  and  proper"  Jew  is  crucial.  Any 
doubts,  even  in  principle,  would  have  the  effect  of  dividing  the  Jew- 
ish community  into  endogamous  groups,  that  is,  groups  that  would 
marry  only  within  the  confines  of  assurance  against  bastardy 
(mamzerut).  This  threat  of  sundering  the  "whole  Jewish  commun- 
ity" into  mutually  nonintermarrying  segments  has  been  used  by 
the  Orthodox  to  great  effect. 

Against  this  background  one  can  understand  much  of  the  "Who 
is  a  Jew?"  question  and  the  vehemence  with  which  positions  have 
been  taken.  In  1958  the  Bureau  of  the  Registration  of  Inhabitants, 
under  the  minister  of  interior  (from  a  left-of-center  party),  was 
directed  to  register  individuals  and  issue  identity  cards  that  had 
separate  categories  under  nationality  and  religion,  according  to  the 
"good  faith"  declaration  of  the  individual.  Thus  a  non-Jewish 
mother  could  declare  herself  or  her  children  to  be  Jewish  and  would 
be  so  registered.  The  rabbinate  and  the  religious  political  parties 
were  incensed,  especially  after  they  were  told  that  population  regis- 
try and  identity  cards  were  civil  matters  and  need  never  affect  mar- 
riages and  divorces,  which,  under  the  status  quo  arrangements, 
would  continue  to  fall  under  the  jurisdiction  of  rabbinical  courts. 


107 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Orthodox  Jews  reasoned  that  if  they  had  to  deal  with  questions 
of  Jewish  nationality  in  a  modern  society,  they  could  not  allow 
nationality  to  be  separated  from  religion  in  the  Jewish  state.  The 
National  Religious  Party  precipitated  a  cabinet  crisis,  and  Prime 
Minister  Ben-Gurion  responded  by  forming  a  committee  of  Jew- 
ish "sages"  (including  non-Orthodox  Diaspora  scholars)  to  study 
the  question. 

The  response  of  the  scholars — even  the  non-Orthodox  ones — 
was  that  it  was  premature  to  define  who  was  a  Jew  in  such  a  way 
that  religion  and  nationality  were  separate.  If  not  born  of  a  Jewish 
mother,  then  a  person  must  undergo  a  conversion  to  the  Jewish 
faith  to  become  a  Jew.  On  the  basis  of  this  agreement,  as  well  as 
Ben-Gurion 's  own  political  considerations,  a  new  minister  of  in- 
terior from  the  National  Religious  Party,  which  rejoined  the  govern- 
ment, was  appointed.  In  1960  the  new  minister  redirected  the 
Bureau  of  the  Registration  of  Inhabitants  to  define  a  Jew  by  ad- 
ministrative fiat  as  "a  person  born  of  a  Jewish  mother  who  does 
not  belong  to  another  religion,  or  one  who  has  converted  in  accor- 
dance with  religious  law."  This  definition,  advanced  by  an  Ortho- 
dox minister,  is  not  strictly  halakic,  since  an  apostate  is  still  a  Jew 
according  to  halakah  but  not  according  to  this  definition.  Such  was 
the  criterion  used  to  deny  automatic  Israeli  citizenship  to  Brother 
Daniel,  a  Carmelite  monk  who  was  born  Oswald  Rufeisen,  a  Jew, 
but  who  converted  to  Christianity  and  then  tried  to  claim  citizen- 
ship under  the  Law  of  Return.  The  Supreme  Court  in  1962  upheld 
the  ministry's  definition,  since  according  to  the  "commonsense" 
definition  of  who  is  a  Jew  of  the  "average"  Israeli,  "a  Christian 
cannot  be  a  Jew."  (Brother  Daniel  later  acquired  Israeli  citizen- 
ship through  naturalization.) 

The  "Who  is  a  Jew?"  question  still  vexes  the  Knesset  and  the 
Supreme  Court,  and  it  has  brought  Orthodox  and  secular  Israelis 
into  sharp  conflict.  Sometimes,  as  in  the  Brother  Daniel  case,  the 
issue  has  arisen  as  individuals  tested  the  directives  in  terms  of  their 
own  predicament.  In  1968  Benjamin  Shalit,  an  officer  in  the  Israeli 
navy  who  was  married  to  a  non-Jewish  naturalized  Israeli  citizen, 
sought  to  register  his  children  as  "Jewish"  under  the  nationality 
category,  but  to  leave  the  category  under  religion  blank.  This  would 
have  the  effect  of  separating  religion  from  nationality  but  not  vio- 
late the  "commonsense"  notion  that  one  cannot  be  an  adherent 
of  another  religion  (as  was  Brother  Daniel)  and  still  be  Jewish.  Shalit 
was  claiming  no  religion  for  his  children.  The  citizenship  of  the  chil- 
dren was  never  in  question:  they  were  Israelis.  What  was  at  stake 
was  their  nationality. 


108 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  court's  first  response  was  to  ask  the  government  to  drop 
the  nationality  category  from  registration  lists;  the  government 
declined,  ostensibly  for  security  reasons.  Finally,  after  the  1969  na- 
tional elections,  the  court  ruled  by  a  five-to-four  majority  in  1970 
that  Shalit  could  register  his  children  as  '  'Jews' '  by  nationality  with 
no  religion — invalidating  the  directives  of  1960.  Orthodox  Jews 
rose  up  in  defiance;  Prime  Minister  Golda  Meir  backed  down,  and 
in  1970,  after  fierce  debate,  the  Knesset  passed  an  amendment  to 
the  Law  of  Return  that  revalidated  and  legalized  the  1960  adminis- 
trative directive;  thus:  a  Jew  is  one  "born  to  a  Jewish  mother,  or 
who  has  become  converted  to  Judaism,  and  who  is  not  a  member 
of  another  religion. ' '  What  the  Orthodox  did  not  win,  at  this  time, 
was  the  proviso  that  the  conversion  to  Judaism  must  have  been 
carried  out  in  conformance  with  halakah.  Thus  the  status  of  con- 
versions carried  out  by  Reform  or  Conservative  rabbis  in  the 
Diaspora  remained  in  question  in  the  eyes  of  the  religious  minor- 
ity in  Israel. 

Another  way  in  which  the  "Who  is  a  Jew?"  issue  arose  involved 
the  status  of  entire  communities.  Among  these  were  the  Karaites 
(a  schismatic  Jewish  sect  of  the  eighth  century  that  rejected  the 
legitimacy  of  rabbinic  law),  the  Bene  Yisrael  (Jews  from  near  Bom- 
bay, India,  who  immigrated  in  large  numbers  in  the  1950s),  and 
from  the  1970s  onward,  Jews  from  Ethiopia — Falashas.  The  con- 
troversy arose  over  the  fitness  of  these  Jews,  according  to  halakic 
criteria,  for  intermarriage  with  other  Jews — not  over  whether  they 
were  Jews.  The  question  was  whether,  because  of  their  isolation 
(Bene  Israel  or  Falashas)  or  schismatic  deviance  (the  Karaites),  their 
ignorance  or  improper  observance  of  halakic  rules  had  not  ren- 
dered them  essentially  communities  of  mamzerim,  fit  only  to  marry 
each  other  or  (according  to  halakah)  Jewish  proselytes. 

These  community-level  disputes  have  had  different  outcomes: 
the  Orthodox  Jewish  authorities  have  not  relented  on  the  Karaites, 
who  were  doctrinal  opponents  of  rabbinic  law,  despite  pleas  to  bring 
them  fully  into  the  fold.  The  Karaites  thus  remained,  according 
to  halakah,  a  separate  community  for  purposes  of  marriage.  Young 
Karaites  sometimes  concealed  their  affiliation  to  "pass"  in  the  larger 
Jewish  Israeli  society,  where  they  were  in  all  ways  indistinguish- 
able. In  the  mid-1960s,  the  Orthodox  backed  down  on  the  Bene 
Yisrael,  changing  the  rabbinate's  special  caution  against  them  in 
the  registration  of  marriages  between  Jewish  ethnic  groups  to  a 
general  caution.  The  Ethiopian  Falashas,  among  the  newest  addi- 
tions to  the  Israeli  Jewish  mix,  still  faced  some  uncertainty  in  the 
1980s — again,  not  so  much  in  terms  of  their  Jewishness,  which  was 
accepted,  but  with  respect  to  marriage  to  other  Jews. 


109 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Halakah  provides  many  other  stipulations  and  constraints  on 
proper  marriages  and  divorces.  Among  others  these  include  the 
biblical  levirate,  whereby  a  childless  widow  must  first  obtain  the 
ritual  release  of  her  brother-in-law  before  she  may  remarry;  laws 
restricting  the  marriage  of  Cohens,  the  priestly  caste  of  Israelites, 
who  today  have  few  corporate  functions  but  whose  putative  in- 
dividual members  are  recognized;  and  laws  governing  the  status 
of  agunot  (sing.,  aguna),  married  women  "abandoned"  by  their  hus- 
bands whose  remarriage  is  disallowed  until  the  man  files  a  proper 
bill  of  divorce  or  until  his  death  can  be  halakically  established.  This 
last  law  has  made  it  difficult  for  women  married  to  soldiers  listed 
as  "missing  in  action"  to  remarry  within  halakah,  because  the 
requisite  two  witnesses  to  their  husband's  death  (or  other  admissi- 
ble evidence)  are  not  always  forthcoming.  People  involved  in  such 
hardship  cases  can  get  married  outside  Israel,  but  then  the  status 
of  their  children,  in  the  eyes  of  halakah,  is  tainted.  Although  such 
cases  arouse  the  sympathy  of  Orthodox  Jews,  the  principle  followed 
is  that  halakah,  being  divine  and  eternal,  cannot  be  modified. 

It  is  in  regard  to  the  principles  of  the  divinity  and  immutability 
of  halakah  that  Orthodoxy  opposes  Conservative  and  Reform  Juda- 
ism. Conservative  Judaism  affirms  the  divinity  of  halakah,  but  ques- 
tions its  immutability.  Reform  Judaism  denies  the  authority  of  both 
principles.  Because  of  these  views  and  their  control  over  the  reli- 
gious establishment,  Orthodox  Jews  have  been  able  to  keep  rab- 
bis of  either  persuasion  from  establishing  full  legitimacy  in  Israel. 
But  because  the  majority  of  Jews  in  the  Western  democracies,  if 
they  are  affiliated  at  all,  are  affiliated  with  Reform  or  Conserva- 
tive congregations,  and  because  of  the  high  intermarriage  rates, 
as  of  1988  Orthodox  Jews  have  been  unable  publicly  to  invalidate 
Reform  or  Conservative  conversions  to  Judaism  under  the  Law 
of  Return  by  amending  the  law  again  to  stipulate  specific  confor- 
mance with  halakah  as  the  sole  mode  of  conversion.  Yet  many  new 
immigrants  (and  some  long-time  residents)  whose  status  is  in  doubt 
have  undergone  Orthodox  conversions — often  added  onto  their 
previous  Reform  or  Conservative  ones — once  resident  in  Israel. 

The  Orthodox-Secular  Cleavage 

As  has  been  seen,  Israeli  Judaism  in  the  late  1980s  exerted  its 
influence  on  society  through  a  complex  interplay  of  ethnicity, 
halakah,  and  political  and  ideological  ferment — as  well  as  through 
the  notions  of  Israeli  Jewish  citizenship,  nationality,  security,  and 
sovereignty.  In  part  because  of  the  institutionalization  of  the  sta- 
tus quo  arrangements  of  the  late  1940s  and  early  1950s,  in  part 
because  of  the  disproportionate  power  available  to  small  (religious) 


110 


The  Wailing  Wall  on  the  Temple  Mount,  Jerusalem 

Courtesy  Jean  E.  Tucker 
Blowing  of  the  Shofar  during  Rosh  Hashanah,  Jewish  New  Year 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Israel,  Washington 


111 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


political  parties  in  the  Israeli  parliamentary  system,  traditional  Juda- 
ism both  pervades  and  structures  much  of  everyday  life  (see  Multi- 
party System,  ch.  4).  Because  many  of  the  Orthodox  of  various 
persuasions  view  the  status  quo  as  the  baseline  from  which  to 
advance,  they  are  accused  by  many  secular  Israelis  of  trying  to  im- 
pose additional  cultural  controls  and  religious  structures.  As  an 
example  of  Orthodox  pressures,  when  Begin  formed  his  first 
coalition  government  in  1977,  the  religious  parties  took  advantage 
of  this  change  in  the  political  status  quo  to  push  for  changes  in  the 
religious  status  quo  as  well.  Thirty-five  of  the  forty-three  clauses 
in  the  1977  multiparty  coalition  agreement  submitted  to  the  Knesset 
dealt  with  religious  questions. 

Since  the  early  1970s,  neo-Orthodox  youths  have  been  more  as- 
sertive and  less  defensive  in  their  religious  observance — a  charge 
leveled  against  their  elders  in  the  1950s  and  1960s.  The  "knitted 
skullcap  generation"  of  the  post-June  1967  War  era  has  in  some 
ways  replaced  the  Labor  Zionist  kibbutzniks  of  a  former  era  as  the 
pioneering  vanguard  of  Israeli  society.  Meanwhile,  the  ultra- 
Orthodox  in  1988  were  as  willing  as  ever  to  challenge  secular 
authorities,  on  the  streets  and  with  violence  if  need  be,  to  protect 
their  prerogatives  and  to  preserve  the  special  character  of  their 
enclave  communities. 

The  results  of  these  trends  have  been  twofold:  a  growing  tradi- 
tionalization  of  Israeli  society  in  terms  of  religion,  and  the  sharp- 
ening of  conflict  between  the  extremist  Orthodox  and  their 
sympathizers  and  the  secularists  who  oppose  the  Orthodox  Jews 
and  their  agendas.  Despite  the  sharp  rift,  a  sort  of  modus  vivendi 
has  emerged,  which  is  what  the  status  quo  agreements  intended. 
But  the  status  quo  itself  has  not  been  stable  or  stagnant;  on  the 
contrary  it  has  been  dynamic,  gradually  shifting  toward  religion. 

Jewish  Ethnic  Groups 

The  division  of  Jewish  Israelis  into  ethnic  groups  is  primarily 
a  legacy  of  the  cultural  diversity  and  far-flung  nature  of  the  Jew- 
ish Diaspora:  it  is  said  that  Jews  have  come  to  modern  Israel  from 
103  countries  and  speak  more  than  70  different  languages.  As  in 
the  United  States,  the  immigrants  of  yesterday  became  the  ethnic 
groups  of  today.  But  Jewish  ethnicity  troubles  many  Israelis,  and 
since  the  late  1950s  it  has  sometimes  been  viewed  as  Israel's  major 
social  problem. 

There  are  two  principal  sources  of  concern.  First,  in  a  rather 
Utopian  way,  Zionism  was  supposed  to  bring  about  the  dissolu- 
tion of  the  Diaspora  and  the  reconstitution  of  world  Jewry  into  a 
single,  unified  Jewish  people.  The  persistence  of  cultural  diversity — 


112 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Jewish  ethnicity  in  a  Jewish  state — was  simply  inconceivable.  Sec- 
ond, the  socialist  Labor  Zionists  assumed  that  the  Jewish  society 
of  Israel  would  be  egalitarian,  free  of  the  class  divisions  that  plagued 
Europe.  Instead,  along  with  the  growing,  industrializing  economy 
came  the  usual  divisions  of  class,  stratification,  and  socioeconomic 
inequality.  These  class  divisions  seemed  to  coincide  with  ethnic  divi- 
sions: certain  kinds  of  ethnic  groups  were  overrepresented  in  the 
lowest  classes.  For  Utopian  thinkers,  the  persistence  of  Jewish  eth- 
nic groups  was  troubling  enough;  their  stratification  into  a  class 
structure  was  unthinkable. 

The  Ashkenazi- Oriental  Distinction 

The  two  dominant  Jewish  ethnic  groups  in  Israel  are  the  Ash- 
kenazim  (the  term  comes  from  the  old  Hebrew  word  for  Germany), 
which  now  includes  Jews  from  northern  and  eastern  Europe  (and, 
later,  their  descendants  from  America);  and  Sephardim  (the  term 
comes  from  the  old  Hebrew  word  for  Spain),  which  now  includes 
Jews  of  Mediterranean,  Balkan,  Aegean,  and  Middle  Eastern  lands. 
There  are  differences  in  ritual  and  liturgy  between  these  two  groups, 
but  both  sides  have  always  recognized  the  validity  and  authority 
of  the  other's  rabbinical  courts  and  rulings.  Nor,  throughout  the 
centuries,  were  scholars  or  notables  from  either  branch  totally  iso- 
lated from  the  other.  In  some  countries,  Italy  for  example,  com- 
munities representing  both  groups  lived  together.  Originally, 
Ashkenazi  meant  one  who  spoke  Yiddish,  a  dialect  of  German,  in 
everyday  life  and  Sephardi  meant  one  who  spoke  Ladino  (see  Glos- 
sary), a  dialect  of  Castilian  Spanish.  Although  this  narrow  under- 
standing of  Sephardim  is  still  retained  at  times,  in  Israeli  colloquial 
usage,  Sephardim  include  Jews  who  speak  (or  whose  fathers  or 
grandfathers  spoke)  dialects  of  Arabic,  Berber,  or  Persian  as  well. 
In  this  extended  sense  of  Sephardim,  they  are  now  also  referred 
to  as  the  Edot  Mizrah,  ''the  communities  of  the  East,"  or  in  Eng- 
lish as  "Oriental  Jews." 

Whereas  the  Ashkenazi-Sephardi  division  is  a  very  old  one,  the 
Ashkenazi-Oriental  division  is  new  to  Israel.  The  term  "Orien- 
tal" refers  specifically  to  Israelis  of  African  or  Asian  origin.  This 
geographical  distinction  has  developed  over  the  years  into  a  eu- 
phemism for  talking  about  the  poor,  underprivileged,  or  educa- 
tionally disadvantaged  (those  "in  need  of  fostering,"  in  the  Hebrew 
phrase).  Some  social  scientists  as  well  as  some  Sephardi  activists 
have  seen  a  sort  of  self-fulfilling  prophecy  in  this  classification.  Many 
Sephardim  will  not  refer  to  themselves  as  Orientals. 

The  heterogenous  nature  of  the  Oriental  segment  of  Israeli 
Jewry  is  sometimes  lost  when  someone  speaks  of  "the"  Oriental 


113 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

community,  or  collects  census  data  (as  does  the  Central  Bureau 
of  Statistics)  on  the  basis  of  the  "continent  of  origin"  ("Europe- 
America  versus  Africa-Asia")  of  its  citizens  and  residents.  The 
category  "Oriental"  includes  Jews  from  Moroccan  and  Yemeni 
backgrounds — to  take  only  two  examples  that  span  the  range  of 
the  Arabic-speaking  world.  These  two  communities  see  themselves, 
and  are  seen  by  other  Israelis — particularly  Ashkenazim — very 
differently.  Yemenis  enjoy  a  positive  self-image,  and  they  are  like- 
wise viewed  positively  by  other  Israelis;  the  Moroccans'  self-image 
has  been  more  ambivalent,  and  they  are  often  viewed  by  others 
as  instigators  of  violence  and  crime.  Although  this  image  has  be- 
come something  of  a  stereotype,  Moroccan  Jews  did  instigate  acts 
of  violence  against  the  Labor  Party  in  the  1981  elections,  and  statisti- 
cally their  communities  have  tended  to  have  a  high  crime  rate.  In 
a  similar  way,  Iraqi,  Iranian,  and  Kurdish  Jewish  ethnic  groups 
all  differ  from  one  another  in  matters  of  self-perception  and  per- 
ception by  other  Israelis.  They  differ  also  according  to  such  indices 
as  income  (for  example,  Iraqis  are  more  concentrated  in  the  mid- 
dle class,  Kurds  in  the  lower  classes),  orientation  to  tradition 
(Yemenis  are  probably  the  most  religious  of  all  non-Ashkenazi 
groups,  Iranians  are  relatively  secular),  and  so  on.  These  differ- 
ences are  likely  to  continue,  moreover,  as  marriage  statistics  in  the 
1980s  indicate  a  higher  rate  of  endogamy  among  members  of  Orien- 
tal ethnic  groups,  as  compared  to  the  Ashkenazim.  As  an  ethnic 
group  in  the  1980s,  Ashkenazim  have  become  much  more  cultur- 
ally homogeneous  than  the  Orientals. 

The  Second  Israel 

Before  1882  Sephardim  or  Oriental  Jews  were  the  majority,  about 
60  percent,  of  the  Jewish  population  in  Palestine.  Although  Oriental 
Jews  did  immigrate  between  this  period  and  that  of  the  British 
Mandate — more  than  15,000  came  from  Yemen  and  Aden  Pro- 
tectorate between  1919  and  1948 — they  were  a  minority,  about  10 
percent  of  all  immigrants.  Thus,  by  1948  Ashkenazim  accounted 
for  77  percent  of  the  population  of  the  new  State  of  Israel.  But  this 
was  to  change  quickly  in  the  period  of  mass  migration  that  followed 
the  establishment  of  the  state.  Between  1948  and  1951  Oriental 
immigrants  accounted  for  49  percent  of  all  immigrants;  in  the  Jewish 
calendar  year  1952-53  they  comprised  70  percent,  and  from  1954 
to  1957  (following  the  Sinai  Campaign  and  turbulence  in  North 
Africa),  African-born  Jews,  the  majority  from  Morocco,  constituted 
63  percent  of  all  immigrants.  By  1958  almost  the  entire  Jewish  popu- 
lations of  Yemen,  Aden,  Libya,  and  Iraq  had  immigrated. 


114 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  new  state  was  barely  equipped,  and  had  few  of  the  resources 
needed,  to  handle  this  influx.  The  immigrants  were  housed  in  tented 
"transition  camps"  (maabarot;  sing.,  maabara);  and  then  directed, 
often  without  their  approval,  to  some  cooperative  settlement  (im- 
migrants' moshav)  or  one  of  the  new  development  towns.  In  both 
cases,  authorities  wanted  to  disperse  the  Jewish  population  from 
the  coast  and  place  the  immigrants  in  economically  productive  (es- 
pecially agricultural  or  light  industrial)  settings.  The  results  were 
village  or  town  settlements  that  were  peripherally  located,  ethni- 
cally homogeneous  or  nearly  homogeneous,  and  the  poorest  set- 
tlements in  the  nation. 

The  lack  of  resources,  however,  was  not  the  only  obstacle  to  the 
successful  integration  of  the  Oriental  immigrants.  Although  their 
intentions  were  noble,  in  practice  the  Ashkenazim  viewed  their 
Oriental  brethren  as  primitive — if  not  quite  savage — representatives 
of  "stone  age  Judaism,"  according  to  one  extreme  phrase.  Pater- 
nalism and  arrogance  went  hand  in  hand;  the  socialist  Labor 
Zionists,  in  particular,  had  little  use  for  the  Orientals'  reverence 
for  the  traditional  Jewish  criteria  of  accomplishment  and  rectitude: 
learnedness  and  religious  piety.  In  the  transition  camps  and  the 
new  settlements,  the  old  elite  of  the  Oriental  communities  lost  their 
status  and  with  it,  often,  their  self-respect.  The  wealthy  among  them 
had  been  obliged  to  leave  most  of  their  wealth  behind;  besides,  more 
often  than  not,  they  had  been  merchants  or  engaged  in  some  "bour- 
geois" profession  held  in  low  esteem  by  the  Labor  Zionists.  The 
rabbis  and  learned  men  among  them  fared  no  better  with  the  secular 
Zionists  but  they  were  often  patronized  as  well  by  representatives 
of  the  Ashkenazi  religious  parties,  who  respected  their  piety  but 
evinced  little  respect  for  the  scholarly  accomplishments  of  rabbini- 
cal authorities  who  did  not  discourse  in  Yiddish.  The  religious  and 
secular  political  parties  knew,  however,  that  the  immigrants 
represented  votes,  and  so,  despite  their  patronizing  attitudes,  at 
times  they  courted  them  for  support.  In  the  early  years,  the  leftist 
predecessor  parties  to  the  Labor  Party  even  tried  adding  religious 
education  to  their  transition  camp  schools  as  a  way  of  enrolling 
Orientals. 

The  transition  camps  were  largely  eliminated  within  a  decade; 
a  few  became  development  towns.  But  the  stresses  and  strains  of 
immigrant  absorption  had  taken  their  toll,  and  in  July  1959  riot- 
ing broke  out  in  Wadi  Salib,  a  slum  area  in  Haifa  inhabited  mostly 
by  Moroccan  Jews.  The  rioters  spread  to  Haifa's  commercial  area, 
damaging  stores  and  automobiles.  It  was  the  first  violence  of  its 
kind  in  Israel,  and  it  led  to  disturbances  in  other  towns  as  the  sum- 
mer progressed.  Israelis  were  now  acutely  aware  of  the  ethnic 


115 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

problem,  and  soon  afterward  many  began  to  speak  of  Israel  Shniya, 
the  "Second  Israel,"  in  discussing  the  socioeconomic  gaps  that  sepa- 
rated the  two  segments  of  society.  In  the  early  1970s,  violent  pro- 
tests again  erupted,  as  second-generation  Orientals  (mostly 
Moroccans),  organized  as  the  "Black  Panthers"  (named  to  great 
effect  after  the  American  Black  protest  group  of  the  same  period) 
confronted  the  Ashkenazi  "establishment,"  demanding  equality 
of  opportunity  in  housing,  education,  and  employment.  Prime 
Minister  Meir  infuriated  them  even  more  by  calling  them  "not 
nice  boys." 

This  remark  underscored  the  perception  of  many  Orientals  that 
when  they  protested  against  Israel's  establishment  they  were  largely 
protesting  against  the  Labor  Party  and  its  leaders.  Many  Orien- 
tals came  to  see  the  Labor  Party  as  being  unresponsive  to  their 
needs,  and  many  also  blamed  Labor  for  the  indignities  of  the  tran- 
sition camps.  These  were  legacies  that  contributed  to  Labor's  fall 
from  power  in  1977;  but,  in  fact,  Oriental  voters  were  turning  away 
from  Labor  and  toward  Herut,  Menachem  Begin 's  party,  as  early 
as  the  1965  national  elections. 

The  Oriental  protest  movements,  however,  were  never  separatist. 
On  the  contrary,  they  expressed  the  intense  desire  of  the  Oriental 
communities  for  integration — to  be  closer  to  the  centers  of  power 
and  to  share  in  the  rewards  of  centrality.  For  example,  some  of 
the  Black  Panthers  were  protesting  against  their  exclusion  from  ser- 
vice in  the  IDF,  the  result  in  most  cases  of  previous  criminal  con- 
victions. This  desire  was  also  reflected  in  the  Orientals'  turn  to 
Labor's  opposition,  Herut  and  later  Likud,  as  a  means  of  penetrat- 
ing power  centers  from  which  they  felt  excluded — by  supporting 
the  establishment  of  new  ones. 

Ethnicity  and  Social  Class 

The  Orientals'  electoral  rejection  of  Labor  and  embrace  of  Likud 
can  thus  be  seen  as  the  political  part  of  a  larger  attempt  to  try  to 
lessen  the  socioeconomic  gaps  that  have  separated  these  two  broad 
segments  of  Israel's  Jewry.  The  gaps  are  reflected  in  the  close  corre- 
lation between  Israel's  class  structure  and  its  ethnic  divisions  along 
several  critical  dimensions,  among  them  educational  achievement, 
occupational  structure,  housing,  and  income. 

In  education,  the  proportion  of  Orientals  in  junior  high  schools 
and  high  schools  has  risen  through  the  years,  but  in  the  late  1980s 
a  gap  remained.  For  example,  in  1975  the  median  years  of  school- 
ing for  Ashkenazim  was  9.8,  compared  with  7.1  for  Orientals.  In 
1986,  although  both  groups  enjoyed  increased  schooling,  the  me- 
dian for  Ashkenazim  was  12.2  years,  compared  with  10.4  for 


116 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Oriental  Jews.  Despite  the  expansion  of  higher  education  in  Israel 
after  the  June  1967  War,  Orientals  lagged  considerably  behind  Ash- 
kenazim  in  their  presence  in  institutions  of  higher  education.  In 
the  1984-85  school  year,  only  14  percent  of  university  degree 
recipients  were  of  Oriental  heritage,  up  from  10.6  percent  a  de- 
cade earlier. 

In  terms  of  occupational  structures,  Oriental  Jews  were  still  over- 
represented  in  the  blue-collar  occupations.  In  1982,  for  example, 
36.6  percent  of  Oriental  immigrants  and  34.5  percent  of  second- 
generation  Orientals  were  employed  in  the  blue-collar  sector. 
Among  Ashkenazim,  25.2  percent  of  the  immigrant  generation, 
and  1 3  percent  of  the  next  (sabra  or  native-born)  generation  were 
employed  in  the  blue-collar  sector.  Among  professional  and  tech- 
nical workers,  the  proportion  for  Orientals  rose  from  9  percent  in 
the  immigrant  generation  to  12  percent  in  the  sabra  generation, 
clearly  some  improvement.  Nevertheless,  in  the  same  occupations 
among  Ashkenazim,  professional  and  technical  employment  rose 
from  15.5  percent  in  the  immigrant  to  24.7  percent  in  the  Ash- 
kenazi  sabra  generation.  In  the  sciences  and  academia,  the  gap 
has  remained  much  larger,  in  generational  terms. 

As  a  result  of  differential  income  levels  and  larger  families,  Orien- 
tals have  lagged  behind  Ashkenazim  in  housing.  In  1984  Ashkenazi 
households  averaged  3.1  persons  per  room,  as  compared  with  4.5 
per  room  in  Oriental  households.  In  1984  the  income  of  the  aver- 
age Oriental  family  was  78  percent  of  that  of  the  average  Ashkenazi 
family — the  same  proportion  as  it  had  been  in  1946,  and  down  4 
percent  from  what  it  was  in  1975.  Studies  of  the  regional  distribu- 
tion of  income  indicated  that  development  towns,  most  with  large 
Oriental  populations,  ranked  well  below  the  national  average  in 
income.  Data  comparing  the  period  1975-76  with  that  of  1979-80, 
however,  indicated  a  significant  improvement  in  Oriental  income 
status.  In  this  period,  there  was  a  decrease  in  the  proportion  of 
Oriental  Jews  defined  as  "poor"  (having  incomes  in  the  lowest 
10  percent  of  the  population).  These  data  on  education,  occupa- 
tion, and  income  indicate  that  although  Oriental  Jews  have  made 
progress  over  the  years,  the  gaps  separating  them  from  Ashkena- 
zim have  not  been  significantly  reduced.  Moreover,  these  gaps  have 
not  been  closing  under  Likud  governments  any  more  quickly  or 
substantively  than  they  had  been  under  Labor. 

The  close  correlation  between  ethnicity  and  socioeconomic  class 
in  Israel  remains  the  main  axis  along  which  the  Ashkenazi-Oriental 
cleavage  is  drawn.  The  "hardening"  of  ethnicity  into  social  class — 
what  some  analysts  have  referred  to  as  the  formation  of  Israeli 
"ethnoclasses" — represents,  with  the  Orthodox- secular  division, 


117 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

the  most  serious  cleavage  that  divides  the  Jewish  society  of  Israel 
from  within.  In  Israel's  class  structure  in  the  late  1980s,  the  upper 
classes  were  predominantly  Ashkenazi  and  the  lower  classes 
predominantly  Oriental.  Mobility  has  been  most  evident  in  the 
movement,  even  though  gradual,  by  Orientals  into  the  large  mid- 
dle class. 

Those  Sephardim,  however,  who  do  rise  to  the  middle  class  are 
unlikely  to  think  of  themselves  as  Orientals.  They  identify  more 
with  Ashkenazi  patterns — in  family  size,  age  at  termination  of  child- 
bearing,  nature  of  leisure  activities,  and  the  like.  Upwardly  mo- 
bile Orientals  loosen  their  ties  with  their  own  ethnic  groups,  and 
for  them  the  term  "Oriental"  is  reserved  for  the  poor  or  under- 
privileged. This  phenomenon  has  been  seen  by  some  as  a  sort  of 
co-optation  of  upwardly  mobile  Orientals  by  Ashkenazi  Israelis. 
Oriental  upward  mobility  has  strengthened  the  correlation  for  those 
who  do  not  rise  in  class  between  Oriental  ethnicity  and  low  class 
standing.  This  correlation  has  led  some  analysts  to  speak  of  Oriental 
cultural  patterns  as  essentially  the  culture  of  a  particular  stratum 
of  society,  the  "Israeli  working  class."  To  some  extent,  too,  Oriental 
culture  patterns  mitigate  the  integrationist  effect  of  Ashkenazi- 
Oriental  "intermarriage,"  estimated  at  nearly  30  percent  for 
women  of  Oriental  heritage  who  have  nine  or  more  years  of 
schooling. 

The  social  manifestations  of  this  rift,  however,  have  been  more 
evident  in  the  political  arena  than  in  the  economic.  Since  the 
mid-1970s,  Orientals  have  comprised  a  numerical  majority  of  the 
Jewish  population.  Thus  far,  the  beneficiaries  of  this  majority  have 
been  political  parties,  often  religious  ones  and  typically  right-of- 
center,  that  have  ranged  themselves  in  opposition  to  Labor.  The 
height  of  Ashkenazi-Oriental  ethnic  tensions  occurred  in  the 
national  elections  of  the  1980s — especially  1981 — in  which  anti- 
Labor  sentiment  was  expressed,  sometimes  with  violence,  as  anti- 
Ashkenazi  sentiment.  That  Orientals  supported  in  those  elections 
the  Likud  Bloc  led  by  Menachem  Begin,  himself  an  Ashkenazi  from 
Poland,  whose  ultranationalist  oratory  served  to  inflame  the  vio- 
lence, was  a  paradox  that  troubled  few  in  Israel  at  the  time.  More 
troubling  to  many  Israelis  were  the  violence  and  anti-Ashkenazi 
overtones  of  the  opposition  to  the  peace  demonstrations  that  were 
organized  by  Israeli  doves  in  the  wake  of  the  1982  Israeli  invasion 
of  Lebanon,  and,  from  the  doves'  side,  the  imputation  of  "anti- 
democratic" tendencies,  en  masse,  to  the  Orientals. 

Some  commentators  have  referred  to  these  recent  crystallizations 
as  the  "new  Oriental  ethnicity."  Unlike  the  Oriental  ethnicity  of 
the  1970s,  it  has  been  less  concerned  with  promoting  festivals, 


118 


An  Arab  village  scene  in  the  occupied  West  Bank 
Courtesy  Palestine  Perspectives 

pilgrimages,  and  other  cultural  events,  and  more  explicitly  focused 
on  political  power.  In  the  1980s,  self-consciously  Oriental  minor 
political  parties  have  reentered  the  political  arena,  the  first  seri- 
ous and  successful  ones  since  the  Yishuv  and  early  years  of  the 
state. 

To  some  extent,  the  new  ethnicity  dovetailed  with  the  new  civil 
religion,  the  new  Zionism,  in  its  positive  orientation  to  traditional 
Judaism  and  its  negative  orientation  to  the  modern  secularism  of 
Labor  Zionism.  In  this  sense,  the  new  ethnicity  has  contributed 
to  the  traditionalization  of  Israeli  society.  But  the  two  movements 
are  not  identical.  As  a  group,  for  example,  Oriental  Jews — although 
they  are  hawkish  on  the  question  of  the  occupied  territories — have 
been  less  committed  than  many  ultranationalist  Ashkenazim  to  the 
settlement  of  the  West  Bank.  The  primary  reason  has  been  that 
Orientals  see  such  costly  efforts  as  draining  resources  into  new  set- 
tlements at  the  expense  of  solving  serious  housing  problems  in  the 
cities  and  development  towns  of  pre- 1967  Israel. 

Around  issues  such  as  the  Jewish  settlement  of  the  West  Bank 
can  be  seen  the  complicated  interplay  of  ethnicity,  religion,  poli- 
tics, and  social  class  interests  in  contemporary  Israeli  society.  In 
the  late  1980s,  the  Ashkenazi-Oriental  distinction  continued  to  be 
colored  by  all  these  factors.  Both  Israeli  and  foreign  observers  be- 
lieved that  the  Ashkenazi-Oriental  rift  would  remain  salient  for 


119 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

many  years,  partly  because  it  was  a  source  of  social  tensions  in 
Israel  and  partly  because  it  was  a  lightning  rod  for  them. 

Minority  Groups 

The  non-Jewish — almost  entirely  Arab — population  of  Israel  in 
the  mid-1980s  comprised  18  percent  of  the  total  population  (these 
figures  refer  to  Arabs  resident  within  the  pre- 1967  borders  of  Israel). 
More  than  three-fourths  were  Sunni  (see  Glossary)  Muslims. 
Among  Muslim  Arabs  the  beduins,  concentrated  in  the  Negev, 
were  culturally  and  administratively  distinctive.  They  numbered 
about  29,000,  divided  among  about  forty  tribally  based  factions. 
There  were  approximately  2,500  (non-Arab)  Sunni  Muslim  Cir- 
cassians, concentrated  in  two  small  villages  in  Galilee.  Among  non- 
Muslim  Arabs  were  Christians  of  various  affiliations:  Greek  Ortho- 
dox, Greek  Catholics,  Roman  Catholics,  Anglicans,  and  Protes- 
tants of  different  sects;  the  Greek  Orthodox  community  being  the 
largest  of  the  Christian  groups.  In  addition,  there  were  Armeni- 
ans who  belonged  to  several  Christian  churches  (see  also  Popula- 
tion, this  ch.). 

Another  tiny  minority  group  was  that  of  the  Samaritans,  of  whom 
about  500  remained  in  Israel  in  the  late  1980s.  The  Samaritans 
are  thought  to  be  descendants  of  the  Jews  who  lived  in  the  area 
at  the  time  of  the  Exile  in  Babylon  beginning  in  722  B.C.  and  who 
intermarried  with  the  local  inhabitants.  Their  religion  resembles 
the  form  of  ancient  Judaism. 

In  addition,  Israel  contained  a  small  number  of  adherents  of 
Bahaism,  an  offshoot  of  Shia  Islam.  They  are  followers  of  Mirza 
Husayn  Ali,  known  as  Baha  Ullah  (the  glory  of  God),  who  claimed 
leadership  of  a  community  founded  by  an  Iranian  spiritual  leader 
known  as  the  Bab  (the  way),  in  the  1850s,  after  the  Bab  was  ex- 
ecuted as  a  heretic.  Bahais  have  a  syncretistic  faith  that  incorporates 
elements  of  Islam,  Christianity,  and  universal  ethical  principles. 
Their  governing  body,  the  Universal  House  of  Justice,  which  con- 
sists of  elected  representatives  from  various  national  spiritual 
assemblies,  acts  as  supreme  administrative,  legislative,  and  judi- 
cial body  for  Bahais,  and  is  located  in  Haifa. 

As  a  result  of  a  high  birth  rate  and  improved  health  and  sanita- 
tion conditions,  the  total  number  of  Israeli  Arabs  in  1988  (exclu- 
sive of  those  in  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza  Strip)  was  about  equal 
to  (and  was  expected  soon  to  surpass)  what  it  was  in  1947  Pales- 
tine under  the  British  Mandate.  During  and  immediately  after 
Israel's  War  of  Independence,  approximately  600,000  Arabs  left 
the  country  of  their  own  volition  or  were  expelled;  most  went  to 
Jordan's  West  Bank  or  the  Gaza  Strip,  and  some  to  Lebanon  and 


120 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  Persian  Gulf  states.  In  1948  many  had  expected  to  return  to 
their  homes  (or  to  take  over  abandoned  Jewish  property)  in  the 
wake  of  victorious  Arab  armies.  Instead,  they  have  come  to  con- 
stitute the  Palestinian  diaspora,  whose  disposition  has  proved  fateful 
to  the  history  of  many  states  in  the  modern  Middle  East. 

Israel's  Arabs  are  guaranteed  equal  religious  and  civil  rights  with 
Jews  under  the  Declaration  of  the  Establishment  of  the  State  of 
Israel.  They  have  voted  in  national  elections  and  sent  members 
to  the  Knesset  since  1949;  following  the  1984  elections,  seven  Arabs 
sat  in  the  Knesset.  Nevertheless,  until  the  end  of  1966,  Israel's  Arabs 
lived  under  a  military  jurisdiction  that  severely  limited  their  phys- 
ical mobility  and  ranges  of  permissible  political  expression.  They 
have  also  lost  much  land  to  the  Israeli  government,  a  good  deal 
of  it  expropriated  by  the  army  for  "security  purposes,"  but  much 
more  turned  over  to  Jewish  settlements  in  attempts  to  increase  the 
Jewish  presence  in  northern  and  western  Galilee,  the  centers  of 
Arab  population. 

In  social  and  economic  terms,  the  state  has  sought  to  dominate 
its  Arab  minority  by  encouraging  dependence.  This  aim  has  been 
achieved,  for  example,  by  providing  funding  for  the  separate  Arab 
(Muslim,  Christian,  and  Druze)  school  systems,  as  well  as  access 
to  Jewish  institutions  of  higher  learning,  and  by  providing  fund- 
ing for  health  facilities,  religious  institutions,  and  courts.  Many 
of  these  institutions  have  encouraged  the  maintenance  of  Arab 
spheres  of  interaction  segregated  from  Jewish  ones.  But  the  real 
dependency  has  resulted  from  the  integration  of  Arab  labor  into 
Israel's  economy.  This  has  entailed  an  acute  deemphasis  on  agricul- 
ture (abetted  by  government  expropriations  of  arable  land)  and 
a  funneling  of  labor  into  industry,  especially  construction,  and  into 
services.  Under  the  British  Mandate,  for  example,  about  two-thirds 
of  all  Arabs  worked  in  agriculture.  By  1955,  this  figure  dropped 
to  50  percent  of  Arab  labor  employed  in  the  agricultural  sector, 
36  percent  in  industry  and  construction,  and  almost  14  percent  in 
services.  By  the  early  1980s,  less  than  12  percent  were  engaged 
in  agriculture,  45  percent  in  industry  and  construction,  and  close 
to  43  percent  in  the  service  sector.  Along  with  this  proletarianiza- 
tion of  Arab  labor — the  loss  of  its  agrarian  base — has  come  the 
urbanization  of  its  population.  In  1948  less  than  one-fourth  of  the 
Arab  population  lived  in  cities  or  towns;  by  the  1980s  more  than 
two-thirds  did. 

Yet  another  way  in  which  the  government  has  related  to  its  Arab 
minorities  has  been  by  encouraging  internal  segmentation,  primar- 
ily along  religious  lines,  in  the  Arab  communities.  Thus  Muslims, 
Christians,  and  Druzes  have  been  differentially  treated.  (So  have 


121 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

the  beduins,  who  are  Muslims  but  are  culturally  distinctive  as 
pastoralists  from  Muslim  Arab  village  and  town  dwellers;  and  so 
have  the  Circassians,  who  although  Muslims  are  not  Arabs.  Like 
Christians,  beduins  may  volunteer  for  service  in  the  army,  and 
some  do;  like  the  Druzes,  Circassians  are  conscripted.)  Differen- 
tial treatment  almost  always  has  favored  Christians  and  Druzes 
over  Muslims;  at  least  this  has  been  the  semi-official  "policy."  Some 
ethnographic  and  sociological  studies  of  Arab  villages,  however, 
indicate  that  other  Israeli  policies  have  had  the  effect  of  weaken- 
ing the  Christian  and  Druze  position  and  strengthening  that  of  Arab 
Muslims. 

In  the  past,  Christian  dominance,  for  example,  was  based  on 
the  control  of  agrarian  resources  in  villages.  The  dismantling  of 
the  agrarian  bases  of  the  Arab  economy  and  the  proletarianiza- 
tion of  Arab  labor  led  to  Arab  dependence  on  the  Jewish  economy. 
But  it  did  so  at  the  expense  of  the  wealth,  and  thus  the  political 
standing,  of  Christians.  Similarly,  the  building  and  support  of  vil- 
lage and  town  schools  open  to  all  created  an  educated  (and  un- 
deremployed) Muslim  cadre  whose  intellectual  energies  have  tended 
to  flow  into  antiestablishment  politics. 

The  Druzes 

The  case  of  the  Druzes  is  a  special  one.  The  Druzes  belong  to 
an  eleventh  century  offshoot  of  Shia  (see  Glossary)  Islam,  which 
originated  in  Egypt.  They  soon  migrated  northward,  settling  first 
along  the  western  slopes  of  Mount  Hermon,  and  thence  westward 
into  the  Shuf  Mountains  of  Lebanon,  south  to  Galilee  and  Mount 
Carmel,  and  east  into  Syria.  In  1988  there  were  approximately 
318,000  Druzes  in  Syria  and  182,000  in  Lebanon.  Including  the 
Druze  population  of  the  Golan  Heights,  annexed  by  Israel  in  De- 
cember 1981,  there  were  about  72,000  Druzes  in  Israel.  This  num- 
ber represented  a  large  increase  from  the  1948  population  of  about 
13,000.  Besides  the  Golan  Heights,  in  the  late  1980s  Druzes  lived 
in  seventeen  villages  in  Galilee  and  around  Mount  Carmel.  Of 
these,  nine  were  all  Druze  and  the  rest  mixed,  mostly  with  Chris- 
tian Arabs.  Less  than  10  percent  of  Druzes  in  Israel  lived  in  cities — 
compared  to  more  than  60  percent  of  Christians. 

The  Druze  religion  is  known  mainly  for  being  shrouded  in  secre- 
cy, even  from  large  groups  of  Druzes  themselves,  the  juhhal, 
uninitiated  or  "ignorant  ones."  The  uqqal,  the  "wise,"  or  initiated, 
undergo  periods  of  initiation,  each  signaling  an  increased  mastery 
of  the  mysteries  of  the  faith.  Although  there  is  a  formal  separation 
between  religious  and  political  leadership,  the  wise  ones  (particu- 
larly the  ajawid,  or  excellent,  among  them)  have  traditionally 


122 


The  Church  of  All  Nations 
and  a  Russian  Orthodox 
church,  both  near  the  Garden 
of  Gethsemane,  Jerusalem 
Courtesy  Jean  E.  Tucker 


Haifa,  with  a  view 
of  the  Bahai  Temple 
Courtesy  Les  Vogel 


123 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

wielded  considerable  political  influence.  The  religion  is  fiercely 
monotheistic  and  includes  an  elaborate  doctrine  of  the  reincarna- 
tion and  transmigration  of  souls.  It  shares  with  Shia  Islam  the  doc- 
trine of  practicing  taqiya,  the  art  of  dissimulation  in  hostile 
environments.  In  the  past  this  practice  meant  seeming  to  worship 
in  the  manner  of  the  conqueror  or  dominant  group,  without 
apostasy.  In  more  recent  times,  some  observers  note,  it  has  meant 
being  loyal  to  the  state  in  which  they  reside,  including  serving  in 
its  army. 

Because  the  Druze  religion  was  considered  schismatic  to  Islam, 
even  to  Shia  Islam,  Druzes  occasionally  suffered  discrimination  and 
persecution  at  the  hands  of  Muslims  and,  like  other  Middle  Eastern 
dissidents,  inhabited  marginal  or  easily  defensible  areas:  moun- 
tain slopes  and  intermontane  valleys.  Because  the  Druzes  have  long 
enjoyed  a  reputation  for  military  prowess  and  good  soldiery,  they 
have  often  not  suffered  discrimination  or  persecutions  lightly  or 
without  responding  in  kind.  Whether  because  of  the  desire  to  set- 
tle old  scores,  or  because  the  doctrine  of  taqiya  can  be  stretched  in 
this  direction,  Druzes  have  been  remarkable  in  being  a  non-Jewish, 
Arabic- speaking  group  that  has  supported  the  Jewish  state,  both 
in  the  late  Mandate  period  and  since  Israel's  independence  through 
service  of  Druze  young  men  in  the  IDF  and  the  paramilitary  Border 
Police.  About  175  Druzes  have  been  killed  in  action,  including  a 
large  proportion  of  that  number  in  the  1982  invasion  of  Lebanon. 

Jewish  Israelis  have  recognized  this  service  and  sought  to  reward 
it.  Druze  villages  had  military  supervision  and  restrictions  lifted 
from  them  about  four  years  before  other  Arab  areas.  Since  1977 
there  has  been  a  Druze  member  of  the  Knesset  from  the  right-of- 
center  Likud,  and  under  Labor  they  have  served  in  highly  visible 
positions  such  as  that  of  presidential  adviser  on  minority  affairs 
and,  at  one  time,  the  Israeli  consul  in  New  York  City.  In  1962 
Israeli  authorities  recognized  "Druze"  as  a  separate  nationality 
on  internal  identification  cards — previously  Druzes  were  differen- 
tiated only  under  dat,  religion;  their  nationality  was  Arab.  Although 
authorities  assured  Druzes  that  recognition  as  a  separate  national- 
ity would  enhance  their  most  favored  status,  some  analysts  and 
younger  Druzes  have  viewed  the  identification  as  an  attempt  to 
drive  a  wedge  between  them  and  other  Arabs. 

Many  among  the  younger  generation  of  Druzes  have  been  partly 
radicalized  in  their  politics — for  a  number  of  reasons.  First,  the 
favored  status  accorded  the  Druzes  has  not  significandy  helped  them 
materially.  Druzes  have  been  among  the  least  affluent  of  all  groups 
in  Israel,  the  number  receiving  higher  education  has  been  low,  and 
few  Druzes  could  be  found  in  top  professional  or  technical  positions. 


124 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

Even  those  who  have  made  the  army  their  career  have  complained 
of  severe  limitations  in  promotions.  Second,  Israeli  actions  against 
Druzes  in  the  occupied  and  then  annexed  Golan  Heights  troubled 
their  coreligionists  in  Israel.  Particularly  troublesome  was  the  1982 
invasion  of  Lebanon.  During  this  invasion,  Israeli  soldiers,  as  allies 
of  the  Lebanese  Christians,  were  opposed  by  Druzes  of  the  Shuf 
Mountains.  Pitched  battles  or  military  encounters  between  the  IDF 
and  the  Lebanese  Druzes  were  avoided.  Nevertheless,  the  Lebanese 
Christian  Maronites  have  been  among  the  Druzes'  most  bitter 
enemies,  and  many  Druzes  serving  in  the  IDF  were  killed  or 
wounded  in  Lebanon.  This  was  a  particularly  difficult  time  for 
Jewish-Druze  relations,  one  from  which  they  had  not  fully  recov- 
ered in  1988. 

The  Arab-Jewish  Cleavage 

The  case  of  the  Druzes  highlights  the  peculiar  problem  of  non- 
Jews,  even  demonstrably  loyal  ones,  in  the  Jewish  state.  Both  con- 
ceptually and  pragmatically,  the  cleavage  between  Arabs  and  Jews 
is  much  more  profound  and  perhaps  unbridgeable  than  the  one 
between  Orthodox  and  secular  Jews,  or  that  between  Ashkenazim 
and  Oriental  Jews.  There  has  been  an  inherent  tension  between 
evolving  an  authentic  Israeli  national  identity  centered  on  the  age- 
old  religious  character  of  Judaism  and  forging  an  egalitarian  socio- 
economic system  open  to  all  citizens.  Reconciling  the  place  of 
non-Jews  within  the  Jewish  state  has  been  a  particular  problem. 
These  problems  have  been  characterized  with  special  lucidity  and 
frankness  by  the  Israeli- American  political  scientist,  Daniel  Elazar: 

The  views  of  Israeli  Jews  regarding  the  Arabs  in  their  midst 
are  hardly  monolithic,  but  whatever  their  character,  all  flow 
out  of  a  common  wish  and  a  general  ambivalence.  The  com- 
mon wish  of  virtually  all  Jews  is  that  the  Arabs  simply  would 
go  away  (and  vice  versa,  it  may  be  added).  It  is  possible  to 
get  many  Israelis  to  articulate  this  wish  when  they  are  pushed 
to  do  so,  but  needless  to  say,  its  very  unreality  means  that 
it  is  rarely  articulated,  and,  if  articulated  by  a  few  extremists, 
such  as  Meir  Kahane,  it  is  rapidly  dismissed  from  considera- 
tion by  the  vast  majority.  Yet  it  should  be  noted  at  the  out- 
set, because  for  Israeli  Jews,  every  other  option,  no  matter 
which  they  choose,  is  clearly  a  poor  second. 

It  is  against  this  background  that  the  Israeli  settlement  policies 
of  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza  must  be  understood.  To  annex  these 
areas  would  be  to  add  almost  1.5  million  Arabs  to  the  non-Jewish 
population  of  the  Jewish  state — hardly  a  way  to  make  the  problem 


125 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

"simply  go  away."  Until  late  1987,  Israeli  planners  had  proceeded 
to  build  infrastructure  in  the  West  Bank  as  though  operating  under 
the  premise  that  two  totally  separate  socioeconomic  systems — one 
Arab,  the  other  Jewish — would  exist  side  by  side.  Alternatively, 
the  Arab  sector  was  hardly  mentioned — as  if  it  did  not  exist.  Still, 
West  Bank  Arab  labor  has  been  significantly  absorbed  into  the 
larger  Israeli  economy;  the  situation  recalls  the  experience  of  Arabs 
in  pre- 1967  Israel. 

The  violent  protests  that  began  in  the  Gaza  Strip  and  the  West 
Bank  in  December  1987  may  well  change  this  sort  of  thinking  (see 
Palestinian  Uprising,  December  1987-  ,  ch.  5).  For  example,  it 
has  been  argued  by  some  analysts  that  the  West  Bank  (as  Judea 
and  Samaria)  had  already  become  part  of  a  "cognitive  map"  for 
a  generation  of  Jewish  Israelis  born  after  the  June  1967  War.  In 
light  of  this  analysis,  some  have  noted  that  security  efforts  begun 
in  April  1988  to  close  off  the  West  Bank,  thereby  keeping  jour- 
nalists (among  others)  out  and,  Israelis  hope,  violent  Palestinians 
in,  have  already  had  the  unintended  effect  of  reviving  the  old  Green 
Line  (see  Glossary).  Israeli  Arabs  living  within  the  old  Green  Line 
have  also  been  affected  by  events  on  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza — 
events  that  might  prove  fateful  for  Israel. 

Between  1948  and  1967  Israeli  Arabs  were  effectively  isolated 
from  the  rest  of  the  Arab  world.  They  were  viewed  by  other  Arabs 
as,  at  worst,  collaborators,  and,  at  best,  hostages.  After  the  Israeli 
occupation  of  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza  and  the  economic  integra- 
tion of  its  Arab  population  into  Israel,  social  intercourse  between 
Israeli  Arabs  and  West  Bank  and  Gaza  Palestinians  increased. 
Among  other  things,  this  contact  has  done  much  to  raise  the  poli- 
tical consciousness  of  Israeli  Arabs  and  strengthen  their  sense  of 
Palestinian  identity.  In  this  sense,  in  the  minds  of  many  Jewish 
Israelis  the  dismantling  of  the  old  Green  Line  and  the  movement 
of  Jewish  settlers  to  fulfill  their  religio-nationalistic  aspirations  in 
biblical  Judea  and  Samaria  has  been  a  double-edged  sword.  Along 
the  way,  the  nationalist  aspirations  of  Israeli  Arabs  have  been  in- 
vigorated as  well. 

Renewed  political  activity  among  Israeli  Arabs  was  already  evi- 
dent when,  in  1976,  March  30  was  proclaimed  Land  Day  as  a  pro- 
test against  Israeli  expropriations  of  Arab  lands.  Several  Arabs  were 
shot  by  authorities  during  a  demonstration,  and  since  then  Land 
Day  has  become  a  major  event  for  expressing  Israeli  Arab  politi- 
cal discontent,  and  for  testing  its  organizational  potential.  Since 
early  1988,  the  political  energies  of  Israeli  Arabs  have  also  been 
focused  on  expressing  solidarity  with  their  West  Bank  and  Gazan 
brothers  and  sisters,  who  themselves  have  pursued  more  violent 


126 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


confrontations  with  Israeli  authorities.  It  seems  less  and  less  likely 
that  an  unproblematic  Israeli  Arab  identity  will  develop  and  that 
the  Israeli  Arabs  will  become,  as  Israeli  Jews  had  once  hoped, 
"proud  Arabs  and  loyal  Israelis."  In  the  late  1980s,  it  was  more 
relevant  to  speak  of  the  Palestinization  of  Israel's  Arab  minorities. 

Distinctive  Social  Institutions 

Israeli  society  in  the  late  1980s  continued  to  be  characterized 
by  a  number  of  distinctive  institutions.  Some,  like  the  Histadrut, 
were  legacies  of  the  socialist  aspects  of  Labor  Zionism,  with  its 
commitments  to  the  socioeconomic  reconfiguration  of  the  Jewish 
people  and  the  establishment  of  an  egalitarian  and  industrial  nation- 
state  society.  Others,  like  the  kibbutz  and  moshav,  stemmed  from 
these  values  but  combined  them  with  the  practical  problems  posed 
by  the  need  to  pioneer  and  settle  the  land.  Still  others — the  ulpan 
(Hebrew  school  for  immigrants)  or  the  merkaz  klita  (absorption 
center) — arose  from  the  need  to  settle  and  integrate  large  num- 
bers of  Jewish  immigrants  from  diverse  lands  and  cultures. 

The  Histadrut 

The  Histadrut  (short  for  HaHistadrut  HaKlalit  shel  HaOvdim 
B'Eretz  Yisrael — The  General  Federation  of  Laborers  in  the  Land 
of  Israel)  was  founded  in  December  1920  as  the  primary  represen- 
tative of  Jewish  labor  in  Palestine;  it  has  accepted  Arabs  as  full 
members  since  1969.  When  founded  the  Histadrut  claimed  4,500 
members;  in  the  1985  Histadrut  elections  more  than  1.5  million 
members  were  eligible  to  vote. 

Much  more  than  a  labor  union,  the  Histadrut  was  also,  next 
to  the  government  itself,  the  second  largest  employer  in  Israel, 
through  its  many  cooperative  economic  enterprises — in  industry, 
building  trades,  banking,  insurance,  transportation,  travel  agen- 
cies, dairy  cooperatives,  and  so  on — organized  under  Hevrat 
HaOvdim,  the  Histadrut' s  holding  company  (see  Overview  of  the 
1948-72  Period,  ch.  3).  The  Histadrut  also  operated  pension  and 
social  service  programs,  the  most  important  of  which  was  Kupat 
Holim  (the  Sick  Fund),  the  largest  provider  of  health  care  to  Israelis 
(see  Health,  this  ch.).  The  Histadrut  published  Davar,  a  liberal 
Hebrew  daily  newspaper,  and  owned  Am  Oved,  a  major  publish- 
ing house.  In  addition,  the  collective  and  cooperative  agricultural 
settlements — kibbutzim  and  moshavim — founded  by  the  Labor- 
Zionist  parties  belonged  to  Histadrut,  which  marketed  their 
products  through  its  various  cooperatives.  The  dual  character  of 
the  Histadrut,  as  both  the  largest  trade  union  federation  in  the  coun- 
try and  the  second  largest  employer,  has  sometimes  led  to  difficulties 


127 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

with  both  the  government  and  labor.  A  long  doctors'  strike  in  the 
summer  of  1983,  for  example,  caused  much  rancor. 

Kibbutz  and  Moshav 

The  first  kibbutz,  Deganya,  near  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  was  founded 
in  1910.  In  addition  to  the  two  largest  kibbutz  federations,  HaKib- 
butz  HaMeuhad  (the  United  Kibbutz  Movement)  and  HaKibbutz 
HaArtzi  (the  Kibbutz  of  the  Land),  there  were  in  1988  a  number 
of  small  movements  including  the  agricultural  collective  settlements 
of  the  religious  HaKibbutz  HaDati,  affiliated  with  the  labor  wing 
of  the  National  Religious  Party.  In  1986  there  were  125,700  resi- 
dents of  about  265  kibbutzim,  divided  among  five  kibbutz  federa- 
tions. The  kibbutz  is  a  collective  settlement,  originally  devoted  solely 
to  agriculture,  but  since  the  late  1960s,  it  has  included  industrial 
concerns,  too.  Founded  by  ardent  socialists,  kibbutzim  are  charac- 
terized by  the  collectivization  of  labor  and  capital:  the  means  of 
production,  consumption,  and  distribution  are  communally  owned 
and  controlled,  with  considerable  emphasis  on  participatory 
democracy  in  the  operation  of  kibbutzim.  Education  and,  in  some 
federations,  the  rearing  of  children  in  age-graded  dormitories,  are 
communal  as  well. 

Until  the  1980s,  the  kibbutz  and  its  residents  played  a  larger- 
than-life  role  in  Israeli  society.  Kibbutzim  embodied  the  coura- 
geous and  selfless  pioneer  who  settled  the  most  difficult  and  dan- 
gerous areas  to  claim  them  for  the  Jewish  state.  They  sent  the 
highest  proportion  of  young  men  to  elite  units  of  the  army  and  its 
officers'  corps,  and  later  to  positions  of  responsibility  in  the 
Histadrut  and  the  government.  If  there  were  a  sociopolitical  elite 
in  Israel  (not  an  economic  one,  because  members  of  the  kibbutz 
lived  with  simplicity),  it  came  from  the  kibbutzim. 

This  highly  positive  image  no  longer  held  in  1988  for  a  number 
of  reasons.  First,  the  kibbutz  was  to  a  large  extent  a  victim  of  its 
own  successes.  Its  economic  success  raised  the  standard  of  living 
of  the  average  member  into  the  solid  middle  or  upper  middle  class. 
It  is  difficult  to  conceive  of  a  rural  village  with  air-conditioned  hous- 
ing, a  well-equipped  clinic,  a  large  auditorium,  and  an  olympic- 
sized  swimming-pool  as  a  pioneer  outpost.  Second,  the  economic 
success  and  the  expansion  of  the  kibbutz  economy  has  forced  it 
to  go  outside  the  community  to  hire  labor — a  direct  contradiction 
of  its  earliest  canons.  Third,  the  membership  of  kibbutzim  has  been 
overwhelmingly  Ashkenazi.  Often  the  labor  hired,  if  not  Arab,  con- 
sisted of  Oriental  Jews  who  resided  in  development  towns  near  the 
kibbutz.  Oriental  Jews  complained  that  the  only  time  they  saw 
members  of  kibbutzim  as  near  equals  was  when  the  members  came 


128 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

to  town  just  before  national  elections  to  lobby  the  Orientals  for  votes 
for  the  left-of-center  parties  aligned  with  the  kibbutzim.  The  turn 
of  the  mass  of  the  Israeli  electorate  to  the  right  wing  was  both  a 
reflection  and  a  cause  of  the  loss  of  social  prestige  for  the  kibbutz, 
which  has  suffered  a  relative  loss  of  influence  in  the  centers  of 
power  in  Israel.  Nevertheless,  the  kibbutzim  still  contributed  to 
Israel's  economy  and  sociopolitical  elite  out  of  proportion  to  their 
number. 

The  first  moshav  was  established  in  the  Jezreel,  or  Yizreel,  Valley 
(Emeq  Yizreel  is  also  seen  as  the  Valley  of  Esdraelon  in  English) 
in  1921.  In  1986  about  156,700  Israelis  lived  and  worked  on  448 
moshavim,  the  great  majority  divided  among  eight  federations. 
There  are  two  types  of  moshavim,  the  more  numerous  (405)  mosha- 
vim ovdim,  and  the  moshavim  shitufim.  The  former  relies  on  cooper- 
ative purchasing  of  supplies  and  marketing  of  produce;  the  family 
or  household  is,  however,  the  basic  unit  of  production  and  con- 
sumption. The  moshav  shitufi  form  is  closer  to  the  collectivity  of 
the  kibbutz:  although  consumption  is  family-  or  household-based, 
production  and  marketing  are  collective.  Unlike  the  moshavim 
ovdim,  land  is  not  allotted  to  households  or  individuals,  but  is  col- 
lectively worked. 

Because  the  moshav  form  retained  the  family  as  the  center  of 
social  life  and  eschewed  bold  experiments  with  communal  child- 
rearing  or  equality  of  the  sexes,  it  was  much  more  attractive  to 
traditional  Oriental  immigrants  in  the  1950s  and  early  1960s  than 
was  the  more  communally  radical  kibbutz.  For  this  reason,  the  kib- 
butz has  remained  basically  an  Ashkenazi  institution,  whereas  the 
moshav  has  not.  On  the  contrary,  the  so-called  immigrants'  moshav 
(moshav  olim)  was  one  of  the  most  used  and  successful  forms  of 
absorption  and  integration  of  Oriental  immigrants,  and  it  allowed 
them  a  much  steadier  ascent  into  the  middle  class  than  did  life  in 
some  development  towns. 

Like  the  kibbutzim,  moshavim  since  1967  have  relied  increas- 
ingly on  outside — particularly  Arab — labor.  Financial  instabilities 
in  the  early  1980s  have  hit  many  moshavim  hard,  as  has  the  problem 
of  absorbing  all  the  children  who  might  wish  to  remain  in  the  com- 
munity. By  the  late  1980s,  more  and  more  moshav  members  were 
employed  in  nonagricultural  sectors  outside  the  community,  so  that 
some  moshavim  were  coming  to  resemble  suburban  or  exurban 
villages  whose  residents  commute  to  work.  In  general  moshavim 
never  enjoyed  the  elite  status  accorded  to  kibbutzim;  correspond- 
ingly they  have  not  suffered  a  decline  in  prestige  in  the  1970s  and 
1980s. 


129 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

The  Ulpan  and  Merkaz  Klita 

Immigration  has  always  been  a  serious  Israeli  concern,  as  evi- 
denced by  the  ministerial  rank  given  to  the  chief  official  in  charge 
of  immigration  and  the  absorption  of  immigrants.  Various  insti- 
tutions and  programs  have  helped  integrate  immigrants  into  Israeli 
society.  Perhaps  the  most  ubiquitous  is  the  ulpan  (pi.,  ulpanim — 
see  Glossary),  or  intensive  Hebrew  language  school.  Some  ulpanim 
were  funded  by  municipalities,  others  by  the  Ministry  of  Educa- 
tion and  Culture,  the  Ministry  of  Immigrant  Absorption,  or  the 
Jewish  Agency.  Because  they  were  heavily  subsidized,  ulpanim  were 
free  or  charged  only  nominal  fees  to  new  immigrants.  Some  were 
residential,  offering  dormitory-like  accommodations  with  board. 
They  were  mainly  intended  for  single  immigrants  and  offered  half- 
day  instruction  in  a  course  that  lasted  six  months.  The  municipal 
ulpanim  offered  less  intensive  night  classes.  Many  kibbutzim  also 
ran  ulpanim,  which  combined  half-day  language  instruction  with 
a  half  day's  labor  on  the  kibbutz.  In  the  late  1970s,  when  immigra- 
tion to  Israel  was  high,  about  23,000  individuals  were  enrolled  in 
some  sort  of  ulpan. 

The  merkaz  klita,  or  absorption  center,  was  developed  in  the  late 
1960s  to  accommodate  the  increased  immigration  that  occurred 
between  1969  and  1975  of  relatively  well-off  and  educated  Jews 
from  the  West,  particularly  from  the  United  States.  These  centers 
combined  the  ulpan  with  long-term  (often  exceeding  one  year)  ac- 
commodation for  families.  With  representatives  of  all  the  major 
ministries  ideally  on  hand  or  on  call,  these  centers  were  supposed 
to  cushion  the  entry  of  the  new  immigrant  into  Israeli  society.  They 
were  a  far  cry  from  the  often  squalid  transition  camps  of  the  1950s, 
a  fact  that  did  not  go  unnoticed  by  many  Oriental  Jews.  In  the 
late  1970s,  at  the  height  of  immigration  from  the  United  States, 
there  were  more  than  twenty-five  absorption  centers  housing  almost 
4,000  new  immigrants.  Taking  all  the  forms  of  such  immigrant- 
absorption  institutions  together — centers,  hostels  (for  families 
without  children)  and  residential  ulpanim — almost  10,000  persons 
were  living  in  some  form  of  them  in  early  1976.  As  of  1988  the 
occupancy  had  declined,  as  had  Western  immigration  to  Israel. 

Education 

Education  in  Israel  has  been  characterized  historically  by  the  same 
social  and  cultural  cleavages  separating  the  Orthodox  from  the  secu- 
lar and  Arabs  from  Jews.  In  addition,  because  of  residential  pat- 
terns and  concentrations — of  Orientals  in  development  towns,  for 
example — or  because  of  "tracking"  of  one  sort  or  another,  critics 


130 


Campus  of  Hebrew  University,  Jerusalem 
Courtesy  Les  Vogel 

have  charged  that  education  has  been  functionally  divided  by  an 
Ashkenazi-Oriental  distinction,  as  well. 

Before  1948  there  were  in  the  Jewish  sector  alone  four  different, 
recognized  educational  systems  or  "trends,"  each  supported  and 
used  by  political  parties  and  movements  or  interest  groups.  As  part 
of  the  prestate  status  quo  agreements  between  Ben-Gurion  and  the 
Orthodox,  this  educational  segregation,  favored  by  the  Orthodox, 
was  to  be  protected  and  supported  by  the  state.  This  system  proved 
unwieldy  and  was  the  source  of  intense  conflict  and  competition, 
especially  as  large  numbers  of  immigrants  arrived  between  1948 
and  1953.  The  different  parties  fought  over  the  immigrants  for  their 
votes  and  over  the  immigrants'  children  for  the  chance  to  socialize 
them  and  thus  secure  their  own  political  future.  This  conflict  precipi- 
tated several  parliamentary  crises,  and  in  1953  resulted  in  reform 
legislation — the  State  Education  Law — which  reduced  the  num- 
ber of  trends  to  two:  a  state-supported  religious  trend  and  a  state- 
supported  secular  trend.  In  reality,  however,  there  were  still  a  few 
systems  outside  the  two  trends  that  nevertheless  enjoyed  state  sub- 
sidies: schools  run  by  the  various  kibbutz  federations  and  tradi- 
tional religious  schools,  yeshivot  (sing.,  yeshiva — see  Glossary), 
devoted  to  the  study  of  the  Talmud,  run  by  the  ultra-Orthodox 
Agudat  Israel  and  others.  In  the  1986-87  school  year,  about  6  per- 
cent of  all  Jewish  primary  school  students  were  enrolled  in  yeshivot, 


131 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

about  22  percent  in  state  religious  primary  schools,  and  about  72 
percent  in  state  secular  primary  schools.  These  figures  remained 
constant  throughout  secondary  education  as  well.  Throughout  this 
period  and  in  1988,  Arab  education  was  separately  administered 
by  the  Ministry  of  Education  and  Culture  and  was  divided  by 
emphases  on  Muslim,  Christian,  or  Druze  subjects  (see  table  3, 
Appendix  A). 

Israeli  youth  were  required  to  attend  at  least  ten  years  of  school, 
in  addition  to  preschool.  The  education  system  was  structured  in 
four  levels.  Preschool  was  available  to  children  between  the  ages 
of  three  and  six;  it  was  obligatory  from  age  five.  Primary  educa- 
tion ran  from  grades  one  through  six;  grades  seven,  eight,  and  nine 
were  handled  in  intermediate  or  junior  high  schools.  Secondary 
education  comprised  grades  ten  through  twelve.  Secondary  schools 
were  of  three  main  types:  the  general  academic  high  school,  which 
prepared  students  to  take  the  national  matriculation  examination, 
passage  of  which  was  necessary  tp  enter  university;  vocational  high 
schools;  and  agricultural  high  schools.  The  latter  two  schools  offered 
diplomas  that  allowed  holders  to  continue  in  technical  or  engineering 
fields  at  the  postsecondary  level  but  did  not  lead  to  the  matricula- 
tion exam.  The  Ministry  of  Labor  and  the  Ministry  of  Agricul- 
ture shared  with  the  Ministry  of  Education  and  Culture  some 
responsibilities  for  curriculum  and  support  of  vocational  and  agricul- 
tural schools.  Education  through  the  intermediate  school  level  was 
free.  Before  1978  tuition  was  charged  in  secondary  schools,  and 
many  argued  that  this  discriminated  against  the  poor,  especially 
Orientals.  A  January  1984  reform  imposed  a  reduced  monthly  fee 
of  approximately  US$10  in  secondary  schools. 

Israeli  education  has  often  been  at  the  center  of  social  and  ideo- 
logical controversy.  In  the  late  1950s  and  early  1960s,  sociological 
surveys  indicated  that  youth  attending  the  state  secular  system  were 
both  ignorant  of  and  insufficiently  attached  to  "traditional  Jewish 
values,"  which  included  a  sense  of  kinship  with  Diaspora  Jewry. 
A  Jewish  Consciousness  Program  was  then  hastily  implemented, 
but  results  were  considered  mixed.  Most  observers  of  Israeli  edu- 
cation believed  that  the  events  of  the  June  1967  War,  and  the  sub- 
sequent trauma  of  the  October  1973  War,  from  which  followed 
the  increasing  political  isolation  of  Israel,  did  more  than  any  cur- 
riculum to  reinstill  a  sense  of  Jewish  national  identity  in  Israeli 
youth. 

Meanwhile,  in  the  1960s  the  state  religious  system,  particularly 
at  the  high  school  level,  underwent  its  own  transformation,  which 
many  analysts  considered  to  have  had  far-reaching  effects  on  Israeli 
society.  The  state  religious  system  has  always  included  a  high 


132 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


proportion  of  Oriental  students  from  traditional  homes.  Middle 
class  Ashkenazim  began  to  complain  of  the  "leveling  effects"  the 
Orientals  were  having,  and  more  specifically  of  the  teachers  (who 
were  accused  of  not  being  pious  enough)  and  the  curriculum  (criti- 
cized for  giving  insufficient  attention  to  the  study  of  the  Talmud). 

In  response  to  this  dissatisfaction,  activists  from  the  youth  or- 
ganization of  the  National  Religious  Party,  the  Bene  Akiva  (Sons 
of  Rabbi  Akiva),  in  the  1960s  fashioned  an  alternative  religious 
high  school  system,  in  which  academic  and  religious  standards  were 
much  higher  than  in  the  usual  state  religious  high  school.  This 
alternative  form  soon  attracted  many  middle  class,  Ashkenazi  youth 
from  the  older  state  religious  high  schools.  In  addition  to  having 
a  more  rigorous  academic  curriculum,  the  new  system  was  also 
strongly  ultranationalistic,  as  reflected  in  the  form  known  as  the 
yeshiva  hesder,  which  combined  the  traditional  values  of  the  Euro- 
pean talmudic  academy  with  a  commitment,  on  the  part  of  its  stu- 
dents, to  serve  in  the  IDF.  These  institutions  have  turned  out  a 
generation  of  self-assured  religious  youth  who  are  not  apologetic 
about  their  piety — something  they  accused  their  elders  of  being. 
Israelis  referred  to  them  as  the  "knitted  skullcap  generation,"  after 
their  characteristic  headgear  (as  distinguished  from  the  solid  black 
cloth  or  silk  skullcaps  of  the  ultra-Orthodox).  Over  the  years,  they 
have  been  more  aggressive  than  their  elders  in  trying  to  extend 
Orthodox  Judaism's  political  influence  in  the  society  at  large  as 
well  as  within  the  territorial  boundaries  of  the  Jewish  state.  Many 
of  these  graduates  have  been  instrumental  in  shaping  the  New 
Zionism. 

Arab  education  in  Israel  followed  the  same  pattern  as  Jewish  edu- 
cation, with  students  learning  about  Jewish  history,  heroes,  and 
the  like,  but  education  is  in  Arabic.  Arab  education  in  East  Jerusa- 
lem and  the  West  Bank  followed  the  Jordanian  curriculm  and  stu- 
dents sat  for  Jordanian  examinations;  the  textbooks  used,  however, 
had  to  be  approved  by  Israeli  authorities.  After  the  outbreak  of 
the  intifadah  (uprising)  in  December  1987,  frequent  school  closings 
occurred  so  that  students  attended  school  only  infrequently  (see 
The  Palestinian  Uprising,  December  1987-  ,  ch.  5). 

Higher  Education 

In  the  late  1980s,  seven  universities  existed  in  Israel:  the  Tech- 
nion  (Israel  Institute  for  Technology,  founded  in  1912);  the  Hebrew 
University  (1925);  Tel  Aviv  University  (begun  in  1935,  function- 
ing fully  since  1956);  Bar-Ilan  University  (1955);  Haifa  University 
(1963);  Ben-Gurion  University  of  the  Negev  (1965);  and  the 
postgraduate  Weizmann  Institute  of  Technology  (1934).  Higher 


133 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

education  in  Israel  has  grown  tremendously  since  independence: 
in  the  1948-49  academic  year  a  total  of  1,635  students  attended 
degree-granting  institutions,  whereas  in  1986-87  the  figure  was 
67,160.  In  terms  of  enrollments,  the  largest  institution  was  Tel  Aviv 
University  (19,400  students  in  1986-87),  followed  by  Hebrew 
University  (16,870),  Bar-Ilan  (9,480),  the  Technion  (9,090),  Haifa 
(6,550),  Ben-Gurion  University  (5,200),  and  the  Weizmann  In- 
stitute (570). 

Israeli  universities  have  not  been  isolated  from  the  larger 
problems  of  society.  High  inflation  and  budget  cutbacks  have  hit 
them  severely  since  the  late  1970s;  many  observers  have  expressed 
fear  of  a  potential  "brain-drain"  as  talented  academics,  unable 
to  find  suitable  employment  in  Israel,  emigrate.  There  have  been 
repeated  calls  to  increase  the  number  of  Israelis  of  Oriental  back- 
ground in  colleges  and  universities,  at  the  same  time  that  charges 
of  "compromised  standards"  have  been  advanced.  The  univer- 
sity campuses  have  also  been  centers  of  political  activity  among 
all  shades  of  the  political  spectrum  in  Israel,  including  Arab 
students. 

Youth  Movements  and  Organizations 

During  the  Yishuv  period  and  in  the  early  1950s,  youth  move- 
ments associated  with  political  parties  were  important  institutions 
of  political  education  and  socialization.  Affiliated  branches  even 
existed  in  the  European  and  American  diasporas.  They  were  train- 
ing grounds  for  future  members,  and  especially  for  the  future  elite, 
of  the  parties.  Each  party  of  any  size  had  one:  Mapam  (the  origi- 
nal Labor-oriented  youth  movement  was  HaShomer  HaTzair — 
see  Appendix  B),  Herut  (Betar — see  Appendix  B),  National  Reli- 
gious Party  (Bene  Akiva),  as  well  as  the  Histadrut  and  other  or- 
ganizations. The  fate  of  these  youth  movements  over  the  years  has 
reflected  the  broader  changes  that  have  occurred  in  Israeli  soci- 
ety. The  relatively  apolitical  and  nonideological  Boy  Scout  organi- 
zation has  grown;  left-of-center  movements  have  not.  The  Bene 
Akiva,  on  the  other  hand,  has  also  grown,  more  than  threefold  since 
1960.  In  the  late  1980s,  it  enrolled  more  than  30,000  Israeli  reli- 
gious youths,  who  make  up  a  large  part  of  the  "knitted  skullcaps." 
The  Bene  Akiva  has  acted  as  a  training  ground  for  many  of  the 
young  extremist  and  right-wing  Orthodox  political  activists  who 
have  gained  prominence  since  the  June  1967  War. 

Health 

In  part  as  a  legacy  of  the  socialist  thrusts  of  Labor  Zionism, 
Israelis  enjoy  a  widely  available  health  care  system.  The  major 


134 


Housing  built  in  the  1950s  and  1960s  for  immigrants 

Courtesy  Les  Vogel 
Geometric  designs  characterize  housing 
in  Ramot  Allon,  East  Jerusalem 


135 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

complaints  of  the  population  have  focused  on  the  heavy  bureaucrati- 
zation of  health  care.  In  general,  the  health  of  the  population  com- 
pares favorably  with  West  European  standards,  and  the  decrease 
in  rates  of  infectious  diseases  has  been  very  marked.  The  highest 
incidences  of  disease  in  1986  were  bacillary  dysentery,  162  per 
100,000,  and  viral  hepatitis,  75  per  100,000.  There  were  report- 
edly forty-three  cases  in  Israel  of  acquired  immune  deficiency  syn- 
drome, or  AIDS,  by  the  end  of  September  1987. 

In  both  Arab  and  Jewish  populations,  control  of  sanitation  also 
has  improved  markedly  since  the  the  mid-1950s.  Still,  health  care 
delivery  has  been  better  developed  for  the  Jewish  sector  than  for 
the  Arab  sector.  In  1985  the  life  expectancy  of  Jewish  men  and 
women  was  73.9  and  77.3  years,  respectively;  for  non-Jews  the 
figures  were  72.0  (men)  and  75.8  (women).  Among  Jews,  in  1986 
the  live  birth  rate  per  1,000  was  21.2,  the  death  rate  7.5.  Among 
Muslims  the  live  birth  rate  per  1,000  was  33.8,  the  death  rate  3.4. 
The  average  number  of  children  a  woman  may  have  during  her 
lifetime  was  2.83  for  Jews  and  4.63  for  Muslims.  The  infant  mor- 
tality rate  was  9.6  for  Jews  and  18.0  for  Muslims  (see  table  4, 
Appendix  A). 

The  Ministry  of  Health,  the  principal  public  health  agency  in 
the  country,  functioned  as  the  supreme  body  for  licensing  medi- 
cal, dental,  nursing,  pharmaceutical,  and  paramedical  professions, 
as  well  as  for  implementing  all  health- related  legislation  passed  by 
the  Knesset.  It  also  functioned  when  no  other  nongovernmental 
agency  was  present.  This  fact  was  important  in  Israel  because  in 
1985-86  the  sick  funds  contributed  almost  45  percent  of  the  na- 
tional expenditure  on  health;  in  comparison,  the  government  con- 
tributed only  some  22  percent.  Kupat  Holim,  the  largest  sick  fund, 
was  affiliated  with  the  Histadrut  and  was  supported  by  almost  two- 
thirds  of  the  Histadrut' s  membership  dues.  As  the  largest  medical 
insurance  carrier  in  Israel,  the  Histadrut  fund  covered  about  70 
percent  of  the  population  (Arabs  included).  Another  20  percent 
was  covered  by  the  sick  funds  of  other  organizations,  which 
means  that  in  general  the  Israeli  population  was  well  protected 
by  health  care  coverage.  Further  evidence  of  the  availability  of 
health  care  was  the  ratio  of  physicians  to  the  general  population; 
in  the  1970s  it  was  more  than  1  to  400,  one  of  the  highest  in  the 
world. 

Welfare 

The  Ministry  of  Social  Welfare  began  its  work  in  June  1948, 
carrying  on  the  mission  of  the  Social  Welfare  Department  estab- 
lished in  1931  under  the  Mandate.  The  National  Insurance  Act 


136 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


of  1953  and  the  Social  Welfare  Service  Law,  passed  by  the  Knes- 
set in  1958,  authorized  a  broad  range  of  welfare  programs,  including 
old  age  and  survivors'  pensions,  maternity  insurance,  workers'  com- 
pensation provisions,  and  special  allowances  for  large  families. 
Retirement  age  was  seventy  for  men  and  sixty-five  for  women,  but 
persons  were  eligible  for  some  benefits  five  years  before  retirement 
age.  The  Histadrut  was  also  a  principal  provider  of  pensions  and 
a  supplier  of  insurance.  In  addition,  there  were  a  number  of  volun- 
tary agencies,  many  funded  by  Diaspora  Jewry,  that  contributed 
significantly  to  the  social  welfare  of  Israelis. 

Special  subventionary  programs,  including  low-interest  loans, 
subsidized  housing,  and  rent  or  mortgage  relief,  were  available  to 
new  immigrants  after  1967  through  the  Ministry  of  Immigrant 
Absorption  and  the  World  Zionist  Organization.  At  times  these 
programs  have  been  criticized  by  native-born  Israelis  or  long-time 
settlers  in  the  lower  income  brackets,  especially  for  benefiting  rela- 
tively well-to-do  immigrants  from  the  West.  Even  more  controver- 
sial have  been  benefit  programs  designed  to  aid  returning  Israeli 
emigrants  readjust  to  life  in  Israel. 

*    *  * 

Of  the  numerous  books  on  Israeli  society,  Michael  Wolffsohn's 
Israel,  Polity,  Society  and  Economy,  1882-1986  is  a  veritable  compen- 
dium of  demographic  information  and  social  indicators.  Israel:  Build- 
ing a  New  Society,  by  Daniel  Elazar  is  lucidly  written  and  closely 
argued.  Sammy  Smooha's  Israel:  Pluralism  and  Conflict  explains  the 
major  social  rifts  discussed  in  this  chapter  and  contains  useful 
statistical  information  in  detailed  appendices.  More  concise,  and 
focused  upon  the  post-Begin  era,  is  Peter  Grose's  A  Changing  Israel. 
For  two  views  of  Israel  by  Israelis,  see  Amos  Elon's  The  Israelis: 
Founders  and  Sons  and  Amos  Oz's  In  the  Land  of  Israel.  Finally,  the 
Political  Dictionary  of  the  State  of  Israel,  edited  by  Susan  Hattis  Rolef, 
contains  many  valuable  entries  on  aspects  of  Israeli  society  and 
politics. 

On  religion  in  Israel,  the  most  comprehensive  treatment  remains 
S.Z.  Abramov's  Perpetual  Dilemma:  Jewish  Religion  in  the  Jewish  State. 
More  analytical  is  Religion  and  Politics  in  Israel  by  Charles  S.  Lieb- 
man  and  Eliezer  Don-Yehiya.  Their  civil  religion  thesis  is  deve- 
loped at  greater  length  in  Civil  Religion  in  Israel.  Also  recommended 
is  an  article  by  Shlomo  Deshen,  "Israeli  Judaism:  Introduction 
to  the  Major  Patterns,"  in  the  International  Journal  of  Middle  East 
Studies. 


137 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

On  the  waves  of  Oriental  immigration  and  the  settlement  of 
Oriental  Jews,  see  Nation- Building  and  Community  in  Israel  by  Dorothy 
Willner.  A  series  of  anthropological  studies  covers  this  period 
especially  well.  These  include  Cave  Dwellers  and  Citrus  Growers,  by 
Harvey  Goldberg;  Immigrants  from  India  in  Israel,  by  Gilbert  Kush- 
ner;  and  The  Dual  Heritage:  Immigrants  from  the  Atlas  Mountains  in 
an  Israeli  Village,  by  Moshe  Shokeid.  Myron  J.  Aronoff  s  Frontier- 
town:  The  Politics  of  Community  Building  in  Israel  is  a  study  of  a  de- 
velopment town  in  the  same  period.  Also  recommended  is  The 
Predicament  of  Homecoming,  by  Shlomo  Deshen  and  Moshe  Shokeid. 
The  best  book  on  Oriental  ethnicity  is  the  collection  edited  by  Alex 
Weingrod,  Studies  in  Israeli  Ethnicity:  After  the  Ingathering.  On  more 
recent  immigration,  see  American  Immigrants  in  Israel:  Social  Identi- 
ties and  Change,  by  Kevin  Avruch;  for  a  comparison  of  American 
with  Soviet  immigrants,  see  Zvi  Gitelman's  Becoming  Israelis:  Polit- 
ical Resocialization  of  Soviet  and  American  Immigrants. 

A  critical  study  of  Israeli  education  in  a  development  town  may 
be  found  in  Power,  Poverty,  and  Education  by  Arnold  Lewis.  The  classic 
study  of  a  kibbutz  is  Melford  E.  Spiro's  Kibbutz:  Venture  in  Utopia. 
On  Israeli  Arabs,  the  most  comprehensive  and  balanced  study  is 
Ian  Lustick's  Arabs  in  the  Jewish  State,  although  events  in  late  1987 
and  early  1988  have  overtaken  its  main  theme,  the  explanation 
of  Israeli  Arab  political  quiescence.  On  the  Druzes,  see  Gabriel 
Ben-Dor's  The  Druzes  in  Israel:  A  Political  Study.  On  West  Bank 
Arabs,  the  collection  Palestinian  Society  and  Politics,  edited  by  Joel  S. 
Migdal,  is  recommended,  as  is  Meron  Benvenisti's  continuing  West 
Bank  Data  Project.  The  Journal  of  Palestine  Studies  is  an  important 
resource  as  well,  containing  useful  articles  such  as  that  by  Elia 
Zureik. 

The  Israel  Pocket  Library,  which  contains  material  originally 
published  in  the  Encyclopedia  Judaica,  has  several  books  in  the  series 
that  address  aspects  of  Israeli  society.  These  include  Society,  Reli- 
gious Life,  Jewish  Values,  and  Education  and  Science.  The  material  in 
these  books  is  now  dated  but  still  valuable  for  the  period  before 
the  October  1973  War.  (For  further  information  and  complete 
citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


138 


A  woman  with  a  hat  typical  of  headgear  worn  by  kibbutz  members 


SINCE  THE  FOUNDING  of  Israel  in  1948,  the  Israeli  economy 
has  experienced  two  distinct  periods:  one  spanning  the  years  1948 
through  1972,  and  another  stretching  from  1973  to  1988.  The  three 
prominent  features  of  the  Israeli  economy  during  the  first  period 
were  the  ingathering  of  the  exiles  (resulting  in  a  very  high  rate  of 
population  growth),  considerable  importing  of  capital,  and  rapid 
growth  of  total  and  per  capita  gross  national  product  (GNP — see 
Glossary).  During  this  period,  the  Israeli  economy  grew  at  a  very 
rapid  rate,  averaging  an  annual  GNP  increase  of  10.4  percent  an- 
nually. 

Between  1973  and  1986,  by  contrast,  GNP  growth  declined  to 
about  2  percent  per  annum,  with  no  increase  in  per  capita  output. 
At  the  same  time,  the  rate  of  inflation — which  from  1948  through 
1972  was  in  single  digits — increased  to  a  high  of  445  percent  in 
1984.  In  1975,  1983,  and  1984,  the  Israeli  economy  came  close 
to  exhausting  its  potential  sources  of  short-term  financing  to  cover 
its  balance  of  payments  deficits. 

In  July  1985,  the  government  instituted  an  emergency  program 
to  interrupt  the  hyperinflation  that  was  threatening  the  survival 
of  the  economy.  By  the  end  of  1985,  the  rate  of  inflation  had  been 
reduced  to  20  percent.  Even  more  remarkable  was  the  elimination 
of  the  government's  budget  deficit  in  fiscal  year  (FY — see  Glos- 
sary) 1985.  At  the  beginning  of  FY  1986,  the  budget  deficit  re- 
mained close  to  zero.  The  emergency  program  ended  fourteen  years 
of  steadily  worsening  inflation  and  devaluations  and  reversed  years 
of  government  overspending.  The  relative  stability  the  program 
achieved  was  seen  as  the  necessary  precondition  to  an  assault  on 
the  underlying  structural  shortcomings  responsible  for  the  slow 
growth  of  the  economy  since  1973. 

Overview  of  the  1948-72  Period 

The  years  immediately  following  the  state's  creation  in  1948  were 
difficult  for  the  Israeli  economy.  The  new  state  possessed  no  natural 
or  financial  resources,  no  monetary  reserves,  little  economic  infra- 
structure, and  few  public  services.  A  sizable  portion  of  the  exist- 
ing Arab  population  fled  the  new  state,  while  impoverished  and 
afflicted  Jewish  refugees  poured  in  from  the  European  displaced 
persons  camps  and,  later,  from  the  Arab  countries.  In  contrast  to 
the  1930s,  when  Jewish  immigrants  to  the  Yishuv  (or  prestate  Israel) 


141 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

had  arrived  with  ample  financial  and  human  capital,  after  1948 
most  immigrants  lacked  the  wealth  and  skills  needed  by  the  new 
state . 

The  new  state  had  to  supply  food,  clothing,  shelter,  and  employ- 
ment for  its  new  citizens;  set  up  civil  and  community  services;  and 
establish  an  independent  foreign  exchange,  monetary,  and  fiscal 
system.  Given  the  shortage  of  private  capital,  the  burden  of  deal- 
ing with  these  problems  naturally  fell  upon  the  public  sector.  The 
financial  capital  needed  to  deal  with  the  influx  of  immigrants  was 
drawn  either  from  the  high  level  of  domestic  savings,  or  from  cap- 
ital imports  (such  as  foreign  loans  and  grants),  or  foreign  private 
sector  investments  (such  as  Israeli  bonds).  The  government's  so- 
lution to  the  capital  shortage  included  an  austerity  program  of  strin- 
gent price  controls  and  rationing.  The  government  also  decided 
to  promote  investment  projects  in  agriculture  and  housing  through 
the  use  of  public  funds  rather  than  through  private  capital  mar- 
kets. The  public  sector  thus  gained  control  over  a  large  part  of 
Israel's  investment  resources  and  hence  over  the  country's  future 
economic  activity. 

The  result  of  this  long-term  state  intervention  was  the  develop- 
ment of  a  quasi-socialist  economy,  which,  in  terms  of  ownership, 
was  divided  into  three  sectors:  private,  public,  and  Histadrut 
(see  Glossary),  the  abbreviation  of  HaHistadrut  HaKlalit  Shel 
HaOvdim  B'Eretz  Yisrael  (General  Federation  of  Laborers  in  the 
Land  of  Israel).  The  Histadrut,  the  umbrella  organization  of  trade 
unions,  quickly  became  one  of  the  most  powerful  institutions  in 
Israel.  Although  Histadrut-owned  enterprises  generally  behaved 
like  privately  owned  firms,  the  collective  nature  of  the  labor 
organization  precluded  the  timely  demise  of  economically  ineffi- 
cient enterprises.  Public  sector  firms  were  owned  by  local  authori- 
ties and  quasi- governmental  bodies  such  as  the  Jewish  Agency  (see 
Glossary).  As  in  the  case  of  the  Histadrut-run  corporations,  criteria 
other  than  profit  maximization  dominated  the  economic  operation 
of  these  firms. 

The  Israeli  service  sector,  therefore,  became  totally  dominated 
by  the  government  and  the  Histadrut.  Histadrut-affiliated  cooper- 
atives achieved  a  near  monopoly  in  such  areas  as  public  transport 
and  the  production  and  marketing  of  many  agricultural  products. 
The  Jewish  Agency  acquired  Israel's  two  major  banks,  which 
together  made  up  70  percent  of  the  banking  system;  and  the  two 
largest  insurance  companies  were  (and  in  1988  continued  to  be) 
owned  by  the  Histadrut  (see  Financial  Services,  this  ch.). 

The  importance  of  the  government  and  the  Histadrut  was  not 
limited  to  the  service  sector.  They  became  increasingly  involved 


142 


The  Economy 


in  the  industrial  sector  as  well.  Whereas  the  percentage  of  plants 
owned  by  the  public  and  Histadrut  sectors  in  1972  was  less  than 
2.5  percent,  their  share  of  total  industrial  employment  was  27  per- 
cent. Similarly  their  share  of  total  industrial  output  in  1972  was 
34  percent.  This  situation  continued  until  1988,  when  discussions 
were  initiated  to  decrease  government  control  of  business  activity. 

The  major  factor  accounting  for  the  increased  role  in  industry 
of  the  public  and  Histadrut  sectors  was  the  development  of  Israel's 
defense  industry.  After  the  June  1967  War  and  the  French  arms 
embargo  that  followed,  the  Israeli  government  decided  to  build  as 
many  domestic  weapons  systems  as  it  could.  In  the  1980s,  compa- 
nies such  as  Israel  Aircraft  Industries  and  Israel  Military  Indus- 
tries continued  to  be  state  owned  and  among  the  largest  firms  in 
the  country.  The  Histadrut-owned  Tadiran  Electronic  Industries 
became  a  major  defense  contractor  and  the  state's  largest  electronics 
firm.  Similarly,  the  government-owned  Israel  Chemicals  Limited 
and  its  subsidiaries  held  the  sole  rights  to  mine  potash,  bromine, 
and  other  raw  materials  in  the  Dead  Sea  area.  The  oil  refineries, 
as  well  as  the  retail  gas  distributors,  were  also  mostly  government 
owned. 

Economic  Growth  and  Structural  Change 

Between  1948  and  1972,  Israel's  GNP  rose  by  more  than  10  per- 
cent per  annum  on  average.  Thereafter,  Israel's  growth  rate  slowed 
to  an  annual  average  of  2  percent.  Not  only  was  Israel's  economic 
growth  rate  much  lower  after  1972,  it  was  also  far  less  stable.  The 
reasons  most  often  cited  for  this  slowdown  include  a  sharp  increase 
in  defense  spending,  the  1982-83  energy  crisis,  and  increased  ex- 
penditures on  social  welfare. 

A  breakdown  of  Israel's  GNP  into  categories  of  consumption, 
investment,  government  expenditures,  and  net  exports  for  the  years 
1960  through  1986,  highlights  some  of  the  difficulties  experienced 
by  a  small,  open  economy  burdened  with  a  massive  defense  ex- 
penditure. During  this  period,  Israel  experienced  chronic  current 
account  deficits  and  increased  government  expenditures.  The  trade 
deficit,  which  accounted  for  an  average  of  20  percent  of  annual 
GNP  from  1960  through  1964,  reached  a  high  of  35  percent  in  1973. 
It  declined  to  16  percent  in  1986,  however,  primarily  because  the 
real  value  of  exports  increased  while  the  real  value  of  imports  re- 
mained unchanged. 

Until  the  June  1967  War,  defense  spending  ranged  from  10  to 
16  percent  of  GNP.  Between  1970  and  1982,  however,  defense 
spending  escalated  to  over  25  percent  of  GNP — a  high  ratio,  even 
for  the  volatile  Middle  East.  A  significant  share  of  defense  spending 


143 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

originated  from  military  imports.  In  the  aftermath  of  the  October 
1973  War,  military  imports  equaled  17  percent  of  GNP.  About 
one-quarter  to  one-third  of  this  defense  expenditure  was  paid  for 
by  United  States  aid.  After  1984  the  increase  in  United  States  aid 
reduced  the  defense  burden  in  Israel  virtually  to  pre- 1967  levels. 
In  1986,  the  defense  burden  declined  to  10  percent  of  GNP. 

The  sharp  upturn  in  world  oil  prices  in  1973  increased  the  cost 
of  oil  imports  by  more  than  3  percent  of  GNP  in  that  year.  The 
oil  price  increases  of  1979,  which  occurred  at  about  the  same  time 
as  the  return  to  Egypt  of  the  Sinai  oil  fields,  are  estimated  to  have 
had  an  even  more  devastating  effect  on  the  Israeli  economy.  The 
total  direct  losses  to  the  Israeli  economy  caused  by  the  increase  in 
energy  prices  from  1973  to  1982  have  been  estimated  at  US$12 
billion — the  equivalent  of  one  year's  GNP. 

In  addition  to  these  external  shocks,  the  economy  had  to  accom- 
modate substantial  increases  in  spending  on  domestic  welfare  pro- 
grams in  the  early  1970s.  In  response  to  domestic  social  unrest, 
the  government  introduced  large-scale  social  programs  to  improve 
education,  housing,  and  welfare  assistance  for  the  urban  poor. 
These  programs  were  designed  before  1973,  but  were  implemented 
after  the  economy  had  begun  to  stagnate. 

Slowdown  of  Economic  Growth 

The  economy's  behavior  during  the  1961-72  and  1973-88  periods 
was  starkly  different.  The  growth  of  capital  stock  declined  modestly 
from  an  8.9  percent  annual  increase  during  the  first  period  to  a 
6  percent  annual  increase  during  the  second  period.  A  major  decline 
occurred,  however,  in  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glos- 
sary). From  a  9.7  percent  annual  growth  rate  in  the  first  period, 
GDP  fell  to  a  3.4  percent  annual  growth  rate  in  the  second  period. 
Furthermore,  labor  inputs  (measured  either  as  employed  persons 
or  total  hours  of  work)  declined  from  the  first  to  the  second  period. 
The  annual  increase  in  employed  persons  from  1961  through  1972 
averaged  3.6  percent;  employed  persons  increased  only  1.5  per- 
cent annually  from  1973  through  1981.  Similarly,  total  hours 
worked  increased  by  an  annual  rate  of  3.9  percent  during  the  first 
period  as  compared  to  1  percent  during  the  second  period.  If  the 
growth  of  the  economy  is  measured  as  GDP  per  employed  person, 
then  Israeli  performance  declined  from  6.1  percent  to  1.9  percent 
over  the  two  periods.  If  GDP  per  hour  of  work  is  used,  Israel's 
performance  declined  from  5.8  percent  to  2.4  percent.  Finally,  if 
GDP  growth  is  measured  per  unit  of  capital,  it  declined  from  0.8 
percent  a  year  between  1961  and  1972  to  -2.6  percent  a  year  from 
1973  through  1981. 


144 


View  of  the  National  Water  Carrier 
that  brings  water  from  the  north  to  foster  agriculture  in  the  Negev 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Israel,  Washington 

Until  1973  the  rise  in  labor  and  capital  productivity  was  the  major 
growth- generating  ingredient  in  the  Israeli  economy,  accounting 
for  about  43  percent  of  total  output  growth  and  for  72  percent  of 
the  increase  in  output  per  worker  hour.  By  contrast,  beginning  in 
1973,  increases  in  capital  stock  accounted  for  64.7  percent  of  total 
growth.  The  contribution  of  labor  and  capital  productivity  to  total 
output  declined  to  18  percent,  and  its  contribution  to  the  increase 
in  output  per  worker  hour  declined  to  25  percent.  Between  1961 
and  1981 ,  the  relative  contributions  of  capital  per  unit  of  labor  and 
of  total  labor  and  capital  productivity  to  the  increase  in  labor  produc- 
tivity were  reversed.  In  large  part,  this  reversal  explains  the  slow- 
down in  Israel's  growth  after  1972. 

Three  factors  apparently  led  to  a  decline  in  the  growth  of  busi- 
ness sector  employment  from  1973  through  1981.  First,  the  growth 
rate  of  new  people  entering  the  labor  force  dropped,  primarily  be- 
cause net  immigration  declined  from  an  annual  increase  of  3.8  per- 
cent in  the  1961-72  period  to  2.5  percent  in  the  1973-81  period. 
Second,  because  of  the  increase  in  the  income  tax  rate  at  higher 
levels  of  income,  the  average  rate  of  labor  force  participation  among 
men  declined  from  73.6  to  64.9  percent,  while  the  rate  for  women 
increased  from  29.2  to  33.4  percent.  Fewer  families  found  it  worth- 
while for  the  husbands  to  work  at  higher-taxed,  high-paying  jobs; 


145 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

instead,  the  wives  worked  at  lower-paying,  lower-taxed  jobs.  Finally, 
the  influx  of  Arab  employees  from  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza 
Strip  declined  in  the  1973-81  period.  In  all,  the  share  of  business 
sector  employment  relative  to  the  whole  economy  declined  from 
77.2  percent  in  the  1961-72  period  to  73.6  percent  in  the  1973-81 
period. 

By  1988  the  potential  sources  of  large-scale  net  immigration  had 
almost  run  dry.  Since  1979  (as  of  1988,  1979  was  the  last  year  during 
which  the  Soviet  Union  had  permitted  large  numbers  of  Soviet  Jews 
to  leave)  the  rate  of  net  immigration  had  been  low;  during  several 
years,  it  had  been  surpassed  by  emigration.  In  1987  immigration 
increased  slightly,  although  this  addition  to  the  labor  pool  was  in- 
sufficient to  increase  Israel's  growth  rate.  The  immigration  of 
Oriental  Jews  had  also  decreased  significantly  by  the  1980s.  Given 
the  low  probability  of  sizable  immigration  from  the  United  States 
or  the  Soviet  Union,  observers  concluded  that  a  return  to  the  rapid 
economic  growth  of  the  1950s  and  1960s  depended  on  Israel's  ability 
to  substitute  alternative  sources  of  sustained  growth.  Possibilities 
in  this  area  were  the  new,  science-based  and  high  technology  in- 
dustries. 

Changes  in  Investment  Patterns 

Gross  investment  reached  an  exceptionally  high  level  of  30  per- 
cent of  GNP  in  the  period  ending  in  the  early  1970s,  but  subse- 
quently dropped  to  20  percent  of  GNP  in  1986.  While  this  figure 
is  substantially  lower  than  that  achieved  by  earlier  Israeli  perfor- 
mance, it  is  internationally  an  acceptable  standard  of  investment 
and  private  savings. 

Nonetheless,  concern  existed  in  Israel  about  the  extent  of  public- 
sector  debt.  Since  1973  the  government  has  incurred  a  substantial 
domestic  and  foreign  debt  that  has  resulted  in  a  significant  reduc- 
tion in  the  proportion  of  private  savings  available  for  investment. 
From  1970  through  1983,  private  savings  averaged  slightly  above 
10  percent  of  GNP.  The  success  of  the  Economic  Stabilization  Pro- 
gram adopted  in  July  1985  in  order  to  cut  back  on  government 
spending  led  to  an  increase  in  private  saving,  however;  by  1986, 
private  savings  stood  at  21  percent  of  GNP. 

Unlike  the  unstable  trend  in  private  savings  recorded  in  the  bank- 
ing sector,  investment  in  housing  has  taken  a  consistendy  high  share 
of  GNP,  hitting  a  40  percent  peak  in  1980.  This  high  level  of  in- 
vestment in  housing,  which  many  economists  argue  is  not  justi- 
fied economically,  further  constrained  the  rise  of  gross  business 
investment.  For  example,  despite  the  rise  of  the  share  in  GNP  of 
gross  investment  in  manufacturing  during  the  1970s,  Israel's 


146 


The  Economy 


1982-86  average  share  of  4  percent  clearly  is  below  international 
norms. 

The  lack  of  uniformity  in  government  investment  incentives  and 
in  the  rate  of  return  on  capital  within  the  manufacturing  sector 
may  be  responsible  for  the  mix  of  Israeli  investments.  Economists 
generally  agree  that  inefficiencies  have  arisen  as  a  result  of  exces- 
sive substitution  of  capital  for  labor,  underused  capacity,  and  in- 
appropriate project  selection.  Government  policy  has  been  identified 
as  the  primary  factor  causing  capital  market  inefficiencies  by  crowd- 
ing out  business  investment,  creating  excessively  high  average  in- 
vestment subsidies,  and  introducing  capital  market  controls  based 
on  inefficient  discretionary  policy. 

The  1967  Law  for  the  Encouragement  of  Capital  Investment 
provided  for  the  following  incentives  to  "approved-type"  enter- 
prises: cash  grants,  unlinked  long-term  loans  at  6.5  percent  interest, 
and  reduced  taxes.  The  Treasury  assumed  full  responsibility  for 
any  discrepancy  between  the  linked  rates  paid  to  savers  and  the 
unlinked  rates  charged  to  investors.  Because  inflation  in  the 
mid-1970s  reached  levels  close  to  40  percent,  the  real  interest  rate 
paid  on  long-term  loans  was  close  to  -30  percent  per  annum,  with 
a  total  subsidy  on  long-term  loans  reaching  a  high  of  35  percent 
in  1977.  These  extremely  favorable  interest  rates  and  implied  sub- 
sidies led  to  an  excessive  substitution  of  capital  for  labor. 

The  investment  system  has  been  characterized  by  the  following 
factors:  private  firms  generally  are  not  allowed  to  issue  bonds,  the 
government  establishes  the  real  interest  paid  to  savers  and  the  nomi- 
nal interest  paid  by  investors,  and  the  economy  is  plagued  by  high 
and  unpredictable  rates  of  inflation.  These  conditions  have  main- 
tained an  excess  demand  for  investment.  The  result  has  been  a  con- 
tinuous need  to  ration  loans — and  an  implicit  role  for  government 
discretion  in  project  approval.  Thus,  since  the  late  1960s,  as  a  result 
of  capital  market  controls,  the  government  has  been  making  in- 
dustrial policy. 

Changes  in  Industrial  Structure 

The  industrial  structure  of  the  economy  can  be  seen  in  terms 
of  the  allocation  of  GDP,  employment,  and  foreign  capital  among 
the  tradable,  nontradable,  semitradable,  and  service  sectors.  The 
tradable  sector  includes  agriculture,  manufacturing,  and  transpor- 
tation; nontradables  include  public  services  and  construction;  and 
semitradables  include  business  and  financial  services,  commerce, 
tourism,  and  personal  services.  Public  services  include  the  activi- 
ties of  government,  national  institutions,  and  local  authorities; 


147 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

education,  research,  and  scientific  organizations;  health,  religious, 
political,  and  trade-union  groups;  and  defense. 

Up  to  1981,  the  economy  allocated  approximately  40  percent 
of  its  GDP  to  the  tradable  sector  and  about  33  to  35  percent  to 
the  nontradable  sector.  This  distribution  was  mirrored  in  the  allo- 
cation of  civilian  employment  across  the  two  sectors.  The  size  of 
the  public  service  sector  in  1981  was  21  percent  of  GDP  and  28 
percent  of  civilian  employment.  Some  economists  argue  that  this 
latter  figure  is  very  high  relative  to  the  international  norms  for  a 
developing  country.  It  is  not  high,  however,  when  compared  to 
developed  socialist  countries  in  Europe.  Some  economists  also  argue 
that  Israel's  high  level  of  nontradables  can  be  explained  by  the  high 
level  of  capital  inflows  from  abroad,  by  a  high  demand  for  public 
services  and  construction  as  a  result  of  immigration,  and  by  defense 
needs. 

From  1955  through  1972,  the  real  output  of  tradables  increased 
relative  to  that  of  nontradables.  Most  of  this  increase  was  attributa- 
ble to  the  importance  of  physical  capital  in  the  form  of  machinery 
and  increased  productivity.  After  1972  the  importance  of  machinery 
declined,  while  that  of  labor  increased.  Educated  workers  were  being 
absorbed  into  the  public  and  financial  services;  simultaneously, 
manufacturing  productivity  was  declining.  Increased  demand 
favored  nontradables,  and  the  share  of  tradables  in  both  employ- 
ment and  output  further  declined.  The  overriding  factor  remained 
the  rapid  increase  in  the  educated  labor  force. 

Changes  in  Labor  Force 

In  the  1950s  and  1960s,  through  a  state  effort  to  absorb  the  large 
number  of  immigrant  children  into  the  public  school  system,  the 
government  assured  itself  of  a  future  supply  of  educated  workers. 
The  demand  for  more  educated  workers  was  provided  by  the  rapid 
expansion  of  public  services,  which  are  inherently  human-capital 
intensive.  Growth  in  public  services  resulted  from  the  rapid  and 
sustained  economic  growth  that  lasted  until  the  early  1970s,  and 
from  the  high  rate  of  population  growth. 

In  the  1970s,  the  education  level  of  the  labor  force  continued 
to  rise  markedly.  Unlike  the  experience  of  other  Western  econo- 
mies, the  increased  supply  of  educated  workers  in  Israel  did  not, 
on  average,  depress  the  relative  wage  level  of  those  with  more 
schooling;  nor  did  it  markedly  worsen  the  employment  condition 
of  more  educated  workers  as  compared  with  workers  with  a  secon- 
dary education.  The  continued  increase  in  demand  for  education- 
intensive  services  and  for  more  sophisticated  goods  and  services 
generally  have  so  far  precluded  the  negative  effects  experienced 


148 


self-propelled  irrigation  machine  in  operation  in  the  Negev  Desert 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Israel,  Washington 
Growing  tomatoes  under  plastic 
near  the  Sea  of  Galilee 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Israel,  Washington 


149 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

in  other  countries.  The  widespread  high  level  of  human  capital  is 
expected  to  continue  into  the  twenty-first  century  as  long  as  in- 
vestment in  education  continues  to  be  profitable. 

The  Public  Sector 

The  two  most  important  tools  of  economic  policy  in  Israel  have 
been  the  budget  and  foreign  exchange  control.  Through  the  budget, 
the  government  can  deal  with  all  financial  activities  of  the  public 
sector.  Defined  in  its  broadest  terms,  the  public  sector  includes  the 
central  government,  local  authorities,  and  national  institutions 
(where  the  central  government  clearly  dominates).  In  1986  govern- 
ment and  private  nonprofit  institutions  represented  about  20 
percent  of  GDP,  which  was  about  a  20  percent  increase  over 
the  public  sector's  importance  in  1968.  Similarly,  the  provision  of 
government-owned  housing  and  rental  services  increased  by  28  per- 
cent, rising  from  8.4  percent  of  GDP  in  1968  to  1 1  percent  in  1986. 
Overall,  in  1986  the  business  sector  represented  69  percent  of  GDP, 
whereas  the  public  sector,  in  all  of  its  dimensions,  represented  31 
percent  of  GDP. 

Government  Budget 

By  1988  the  government  had  been  operating  under  a  deficit  for 
more  than  a  decade.  Between  1982  and  1984,  the  deficit  equaled 
between  12  and  15  percent  of  GNP.  After  the  implementation  of 
the  July  1985  Economic  Stabilization  Program,  the  government 
succeeded  in  balancing  its  budget  (see  The  Economic  Stabiliza- 
tion Program  of  July  1985,  this  ch.).  This  balance  was  achieved 
not  only  because  the  government  raised  taxes  and  reduced  spend- 
ing, but  also  because  the  reduced  inflation  increased  the  real  value 
of  tax  revenues.  During  FY  1986,  the  expansion  of  the  economy 
compensated  for  the  reduction  in  direct  and  indirect  taxes.  The 
government  also  initiated  plans  to  reduce  further  its  public  debt 
(see  table  5;  table  6,  Appendix  A). 

Before  the  July  1985  reforms,  the  tax  system  was  considered  to 
be  very  progressive  on  individual  income  but  barely  touched  cor- 
porate income.  After  the  reforms,  which  included  a  new  corporate 
tax  law,  large  sums  of  taxes  were  collected  from  business  sectors 
that  previously  had  been  untaxed.  Personal  income  tax  ranged  from 
a  base  rate  of  20  percent  (payable  on  incomes  equivalent  to  about 
US$500  per  month)  to  a  top  rate  of  60  percent  on  a  monthly  income 
of  about  US$2, 100.- Corporate  income  tax  generally  was  45  per- 
cent. Few  corporations,  however,  actually  paid  this  rate  once  var- 
ious government  subsidies  were  included  in  the  calculation. 


150 


Moshav  Margalit  in  Galilee 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Israel,  Washington 

Provision  of  Civilian  Services 

Civilian  public  services  have  employed  a  high  proportion  of  the 
labor  force  and  consequently  have  absorbed  a  high  share  of  Israel's 
GNP.  Spending  on  health,  education,  and  welfare  services  rose 
from  17  percent  of  GNP  in  1968  to  20  percent  in  the  early  1970s. 
The  level  of  spending  on  civilian  public  services  remained  constant 
at  about  20  percent  through  1986.  The  share  of  the  total  civilian 
labor  force  employed  in  civilian  public  services  rose  from  22  per- 
cent in  1968  to  30  percent  in  1986. 

The  civilian  services  primarily  responsible  for  these  high  out- 
lays were  education  and  health  services,  whose  share  increased  from 
50  percent  of  the  total  in  1969  to  more  than  60  percent  in  1986. 
At  the  other  end  of  the  scale  were  economic  and  general  services, 
whose  expenditures  declined  from  33  percent  of  the  total  in  1969 
to  23  percent  in  1986.  The  share  of  other  welfare  services  (includ- 
ing immigrant  absorption  services)  remained  constant.  The  decline 
of  general  and  economic  services  reflected  a  transfer  of  some  of 
these  functions  from  the  public  sector  to  the  business  community 
and  a  decline  in  direct  government  intervention  in  the  economy. 

Unlike  social  welfare  and  economic  services,  which  were  directly 
funded  by  the  government,  until  the  early  1970s  education  and 
health  services  received  substantial  funding  from  foreign  sources. 


151 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

In  1968,  for  example,  the  government  financed  only  70.5  percent 
of  Israel's  education  services.  By  1978  the  government's  share  had 
increased  to  84.5  percent.  Whereas  in  1968  the  Jewish  Agency 
financed  about  20  percent  of  the  total  national  expenditure  on  edu- 
cation from  foreign  aid  funds,  by  1978  only  7.6  percent  came  from 
foreign  aid,  and  this  percentage  has  decreased  further  since.  The 
result  was  an  added  burden  on  the  taxpayer,  equal  to  approximately 
22  percent  of  the  national  expenditure  on  education.  Direct  pri- 
vate financing  of  education  expenditures  contracted  from  9.5 
percent  of  the  total  in  FY  1968  to  1.7  percent  in  FY  1978.  The 
key  element  explaining  this  latter  drop  was  the  institution  of  free, 
compulsory  secondary  education  in  the  late  1970s. 

Health  services'  funding  followed  a  similar  pattern.  The  govern- 
ment's share  rose  from  53  percent  in  1968  to  62  percent  in  1980. 
Here,  however,  the  Jewish  Agency's  participation  decreased  even 
more  sharply,  from  20  percent  of  the  total  national  expenditure 
on  health  in  1968  to  nearly  zero  in  1980.  The  added  burden  of 
government  financing  from  internal  sources  over  the  decade  was 
almost  30  percent. 

In  both  health  and  education,  the  trend  illustrated  a  transition 
from  foreign  financing  to  internal  resources  and  a  switch  from  direct 
private  financing  (and  independent  fundraising  by  nonprofit 
institutions)  to  the  imposition  of  a  greater  burden  on  the  central 
fiscal  system.  In  the  past,  when  these  services  were  expanded,  the 
cost  often  was  carried  by  aid  from  abroad.  As  this  source  began 
to  dwindle,  the  cost  increasingly  shifted  to  the  government,  which 
for  political  reasons  could  not  reduce  these  public  civil  expenditures. 

Provision  of  Defense  Services 

Throughout  its  existence,  Israel  has  been  obliged  to  devote  a  con- 
siderable part  of  its  resources  to  national  defense.  Since  1973, 
Israel's  annual  defense  expenditure  has  equaled  that  of  the  Nether- 
lands and  exceeded  that  of  Sweden.  In  per  capita  terms,  Israel's 
expenditure  has  been  two  to  three  times  as  large  as  theirs.  Defense 
expenditures  in  the  Netherlands  and  Sweden  each  amounted  to 
3  to  4  percent  of  GNP  in  FY  1976;  in  Israel,  they  amounted  to 
more  than  25  percent  of  GNP.  The  persistence  of  a  high  defense 
expenditure  over  a  very  long  period  makes  Israel's  situation  unique. 

The  simplest  definition  of  the  defense  burden  is  the  total  bud- 
geted resources  diverted  to  defense  and  thus  precluded  from  other 
uses  by  citizens.  Other  resource  costs  include  the  opportunity  cost 
of  labor  working  for  the  defense  sector  and  therefore  unavailable 
to  other  sectors,  thus  reducing  civilian  output.  Finally,  foreign  cur- 
rency spent  on  military  imports  is  unavailable  for  civilian  imports. 


152 


The  Economy 


Although  estimates  of  the  defense  burden  suffer  from  inadequate 
data,  the  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics  publishes  data  on  the  non- 
civilian  component  of  public  consumption,  which  is  used  as  a  proxy 
for  defense  expenditures.  Apart  from  the  war  years  of  1967  and 
1973,  the  annual  fluctuations  have  been  dominated  by  long-term 
changes  in  defense  costs  (commonly  referred  to  as  "ratchets"  or 
step  functions).  By  1986  defense  expenditure  had  declined  to  a  range 
from  10  to  16  percent  of  GNP,  depending  on  the  measure  used. 

These  official  data  do  not  include  information  on  forfeited  earn- 
ings of  conscripted  soldiers,  forfeited  earnings  of  persons  on  reserve 
duty,  and  costs  of  casualties,  stockpiling,  civil  defense,  land  devoted 
for  army  training,  and  many  other  government  and  civilian  ex- 
penditures ascribed  to  defense.  Although  it  is  impossible  to  assign 
a  rough  order  of  magnitude  to  the  items  mentioned,  some  econ- 
omists have  speculated  that  they  are  not  insignificant  components 
of  the  civilian  public  sector.  This  becomes  clear  when  one  considers 
that  the  length  of  time  devoted  to  conscription,  reserve  duty,  and 
regular  army  duty  has  been  lengthened  (see  Conscription;  Reserve 
Duty,  ch.  5).  Government  defense  functions  involved  in  operations 
in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip  add  a  further  cost  to  the 
defense  burden. 

The  cost  of  defense  also  includes  direct  defense  imports  and  mili- 
tary aid  from  the  United  States.  In  FY  1986,  Israel  received  United 
States  military  aid  in  the  range  of  US$3  billion.  A  large  share  of 
these  funds  has  regularly  been  spent  in  the  United  States  (see 
table  7,  Appendix  A). 

On  the  other  side  of  the  defense-burden  equation  are  the  benefi- 
cial by-products  associated  with  military  activity.  The  most  im- 
portant benefits  are  education,  absorption  of  immigrants, 
agricultural  settlement,  and  the  development  and  manufacture  of 
weapons  and  equipment.  An  example  of  these  beneficial  by-products 
was  the  development  of  the  Kfir  interceptor,  which  created  jobs 
for  technicians  and  laborers  (see  Defense  Industries,  ch.  5).  In  short, 
when  estimating  Israel's  defense  burden  it  is  important  to  consider 
the  cost  reductions  implicit  from  these  beneficial  by-products. 

Taxation 

From  1961  to  1983,  government  expenditures  grew  far  more 
rapidly  than  Israel's  GNP,  primarily  because  of  the  sharp  increase 
in  defense  outlays  from  the  latter  half  of  the  1960s  through  the  1970s. 
Taxation  was  insufficient  to  finance  the  increase  in  government 
spending.  Although  gross  taxes  increased,  net  taxes  declined  con- 
tinuously during  the  period.  To  meet  the  deficit,  the  government 
resorted  to  domestic  and  foreign  borrowing. 


153 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

By  the  mid-1970s,  the  government  increasingly  relied  on  for- 
eign sources  to  finance  the  domestic  deficit.  These  growing  debts 
were  equivalent  to  almost  14  percent  of  each  year's  GNP,  during 
a  time  when  GNP  was  growing  at  less  than  2  percent  a  year. 

In  the  second  half  of  the  1970s,  the  tax  system  collected  approx- 
imately 47  percent  of  GNP,  compared  with  35  percent  in  the  1960s 
and  41  percent  in  the  first  half  of  the  1970s.  This  rise  occurred 
mainly  in  direct  taxes  and  taxation  of  domestically  produced  goods, 
while  taxes  on  imports  declined  by  a  small  margin.  During  FY  1981 , 
direct  taxes  represented  25.7  percent  of  GNP;  they  were  14.3  per- 
cent of  GNP  in  FY  1961.  Taxes  on  domestic  production  represented 
12  percent  of  GNP  in  FY  1981,  a  decline  from  the  FY  1961  high 
of  13.9  percent.  The  introduction  of  the  value-added  tax  on  both 
domestic  and  foreign  goods  added  a  tax  base  of  8.7  percent  of  GNP 
in  FY  1981. 

In  FY  1986,  income  taxes  collected  represented  33  percent  of 
GNP.  Value-added  taxes  represented  20  percent  of  GNP  and  cus- 
toms duties  represented  4  percent  of  GNP.  In  late  1987,  the  govern- 
ment announced  plans  to  revamp  the  tax  structure  in  the  light  of 
the  1985  Economic  Stabilization  Program  (see  The  Economic 
Stabilization  Program  of  July  1985,  this  ch.). 

Industry 

The  Histadrut  directly  owns  or  controls  a  significant  portion  of 
Israeli  industry.  The  separation  of  industries  among  the  public, 
private,  and  Histadrut  sectors  of  the  economy,  however,  is  not  a 
simple  one.  Many  important  enterprises  are  partners  with  either 
or  both  the  Histadrut  and  the  government.  Most  big  industrial  con- 
cerns, such  as  the  Nesher  cement  and  Shemen  vegetable  oil  plants, 
are  owned  either  solely  by  Histadrut  (through  its  industrial  con- 
glomerate, Koor  Industries)  or  in  partnership  with  private  inves- 
tors. About  10  percent  of  FY  1985  industrial  output  was  produced 
by  joint  ventures  of  the  private  and  Histadrut  sectors. 

In  FY  1985,  private-sector  industrial  ownership  was  as  follows: 
electronics,  51  percent;  textiles,  92  percent;  clothing,  97  percent; 
machinery,  61  percent;  food  and  tobacco,  60  percent;  leather  goods, 
80  percent;  wood  products,  72  percent;  paper  products,  81  per- 
cent; and  printing  and  publishing,  86  percent. 

Manufacturing,  particularly  for  export,  has  been  a  major  com- 
ponent of  GDP.  In  FY  1985,  manufacturing  contributed  23.4  per- 
cent of  GDP.  Industrial  production  grew  at  a  rate  of  3.6  percent 
in  1986,  compared  with  3  percent  in  1984.  Most  of  this  growth 
has  been  in  export  products.  For  many  years,  export  growth  was 
led  by  the  electronics  and  metallurgic  industries,  especially  in  the 


154 


The  Economy 


field  of  military  equipment.  In  the  1980s,  exports  from  the  textile, 
clothing  and  fashion  industries  expanded,  as  did  exports  of  food 
products  of  various  sorts.  Following  a  slump  in  the  1980s,  diamond 
exports  made  a  strong  recovery  after  1985  (see  table  8,  Appendix  A). 

Electronics 

In  the  1980s,  high- technology  industries  received  the  greatest 
attention  from  the  government.  Israeli  electronics  companies  com- 
peted worldwide  and  in  some  cases  were  leaders  in  their  fields. 
Israel's  Scitex  was  a  leading  image-processing  firm,  Laser  Indus- 
tries led  in  laser  surgery,  Elbit  led  in  defense  electronics,  and  Fibron- 
ics  led  in  fiberoptic  communication.  In  1985  the  electric  and 
electronic  equipment  industry  represented  4.5  percent  of  indus- 
trial establishments,  12  percent  of  industrial  employment,  and 
almost  13  percent  of  industrial  revenues. 

Despite  the  success  of  the  electronics  industry  in  the  1980s,  ex- 
perts predicted  that  in  the  1990s  this  sector  will  face  a  shortage  of 
engineers  and  technicians.  A  major  reason  for  this  shortage  is  the 
lower  net  pay  for  engineers  in  Israel  relative  to  the  United  States. 
An  identical  1985  gross  salary  of  US$30,000  in  Israel  and  in  Califor- 
nia would  generate  a  net  income  of  US$9,000  in  Israel  and 
US$20,000  in  California.  Although  the  Israeli  would  consume  a 
higher  amount  of  social  services  than  his  or  her  counterpart  in 
California,  a  wide  gap  would  remain  between  the  two  salaries.  As 
long  as  this  gap  exists,  Israel  will  have  difficulty  keeping  skilled 
engineers. 

Biotechnology 

Israel's  biotechnology  industry  is  relatively  new  and  an  offspring 
of  its  American  counterpart.  Its  creation  in  the  late  1960s  resulted 
from  the  establishment  in  Israel  of  subsidiaries  of  foreign  phar- 
maceutical companies.  The  first  of  these  was  a  subsidiary  formed 
by  Miles  Laboratories  with  the  Weizmann  Institute  of  Technology, 
called  Miles- Yeda.  This  was  followed  by  the  Hebrew  University- 
Weizmann  Institute  subsidiary,  Ames-Yissum.  Over  time,  these 
firms  became  wholly  Israeli-owned  entities.  Gradually,  foreign  ven- 
ture capitalists  began  to  initiate  other  independent  biotechnology 
entities  in  Israel.  As  of  the  early  1980s,  Israeli  venture  capitalists 
had  begun  creating  their  own  science-based  entities. 

Many  economists  call  biotechnology  a  "natural"  Israeli  indus- 
try. Its  primary  input  has  been  data  from  research  and  university 
laboratories.  The  only  other  major  ingredient  has  been  American 
capital  to  support  research  and  development  activity.  The  main 
areas  of  research  in  the  mid-1980s  included  genetic  engineering, 


155 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

human  and  animal  diagnostics,  agricultural  biofertilization,  and 
aquatic  biotechnology. 

Diamonds 

Israel's  diamond  industry  in  the  1980s  differed  considerably  from 
its  1950s'  version.  Until  the  early  1980s,  a  handful  of  large  firms 
dominated  the  Israeli  diamond  industry.  The  nucleus  consisted  of 
European  Jewish  cutters  who  had  immigrated  during  the  Yishuv. 
In  the  1970s,  Israel  surpassed  Antwerp  as  the  largest  wholesale  dia- 
mond center,  accounting  for  more  than  50  percent  of  all  cut  and 
polished  gem  diamonds.  Diamonds  were  the  only  export  in  which 
Israel  was  more  than  a  marginal  supplier. 

Unlike  other  industries,  the  diamond  industry  was  affected  en- 
tirely by  external  factors  not  under  Israeli  control.  The  diamond 
industry  imported  rough  diamonds,  cut  and  polished  them,  and 
then  exported  them.  The  slump  in  the  industry  from  1980  through 
1982  surprised  many  Israeli  firms  that  had  speculative  stockpiles. 
The  result  was  a  complete  restructuring  of  the  industry  in  FY  1984, 
and  the  creation  of  approximately  800  new  and  smaller  manufac- 
turing units.  These  small  entities  in  mid- 1986  concentrated  exclu- 
sively on  cutting,  leaving  the  marketing  to  larger  export  firms.  This 
latter  task  was  supported  by  the  2,000-member  Israel  Diamond 
Exchange  and  the  300-member  Israel  Precious  Stones  and  Dia- 
monds Exchange,  together  with  the  quasi-governmental  Israel  Dia- 
mond Institute. 

The  success  of  this  revitalization  can  be  seen  in  the  trade  figures 
for  the  industry.  In  1982  net  diamond  exports  were  US$905  mil- 
lion, equal  to  18  percent  of  total  exports;  in  1986,  however,  dia- 
mond exports  had  grown  to  nearly  US$1 .7  billion,  or  approximately 
24  percent  of  total  exports. 

Chemicals,  Rubber,  and  Plastics 

The  chemical  industry  began  in  the  early  1920s,  when  a  small 
plant  was  started  to  extract  potash  and  bromine  from  the  Dead 
Sea.  In  the  past,  the  chemical  industry  concentrated  on  the  sale 
of  raw  materials,  such  as  potash  and  phosphates,  and  their  processed 
derivatives.  In  the  early  1980s,  the  industry  undertook  a  compre- 
hensive research  and  development  program,  which  has  substan- 
tially transformed  it.  Helping  Israel  to  become  one  of  the  world's 
largest  chemical-producing  nations  was  the  industry's  development 
of  new  treatment  processes  for  ceramics,  glass,  textiles,  plastics, 
and  wood.  In  1986  the  chemicals,  rubber,  and  plastics  industries 
together  provided  15.6  percent  of  total  industrial  sales  and  engaged 
11  percent  of  the  industrial  labor  force. 


156 


Western  pilgrims  on  the  Via  Dolorosa 
in  the  Old  City  of  Jerusalem  pass  a  seller  of  bagels. 

Courtesy  Les  Vogel 

In  the  1980s,  Israel  Chemicals  Limited  (ICL) — a  government- 
owned  corporation — was  the  largest  chemical  complex  and  also 
dominated  Israel's  mineral  resources  industry.  Its  subsidiaries 
included  the  Dead  Sea  Works,  Dead  Sea  Bromine,  and  Negev  Phos- 
phates. ICL  also  was  parent  to  smaller  research,  desalination, 
telecommunications,  shipping,  and  trucking  firms.  In  addition,  ICL 
owned  Amsterdam  Fertilizers  in  the  Netherlands  and  Broomchemie, 
Guilin  Chemie,  and  Stadiek  Dunger  in  the  Federal  Republic  of 
Germany  (West  Germany). 

In  the  plastics  field,  Kibbutz  Industries  Association — a  mem- 
ber of  the  Histadrut — accounted  for  more  than  60  percent  of  Israel's 
plastics  output  and  more  than  75  percent  of  plastics  exports.  Vir- 
tually all  the  successful  plastics  establishments  were  kibbutz  owned. 

Clothing  and  Textiles 

During  the  mid-1950s,  Israel,  like  other  developing  countries, 
promoted  the  textile  and  apparel  industry  to  be  a  ready  source  of 
employment.  By  1985  the  textile  and  clothing  industry  was 
represented  by  1,523  establishments.  These  businesses  employed 
about  46,000  workers  (representing  15  percent  of  industrial  work- 
ers) and  earned  revenues  equal  to  approximately  US$13  million, 
or  8.8  percent  of  total  industrial  earnings.  In  1988  Israel  continued 


157 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

to  promote  this  industry  as  a  source  of  employment  for  unskilled 
and  semiskilled  immigrants  and  for  local  Israeli  Arab  labor. 

The  textile  and  apparel  industries  were  characterized  by  many 
small  firms  and  a  few  large,  vertically  integrated  companies  (in- 
cluding Pol  gat  Enterprises,  considered  one  of  the  most  efficient 
producers  in  the  world).  Like  other  Israeli  industries,  the  textile 
and  apparel  industry  depended  for  its  survival  on  its  ability  to  ex- 
port to  Europe  and  the  United  States.  Given  the  generally  high 
tariff  barriers  in  Europe  and  the  United  States  on  such  products, 
the  agreement  Israel  signed  with  the  European  Economic  Com- 
munity (EEC)  in  1977,  the  Israel-EEC  Preferential  Agreement, 
as  well  as  the  United  States-Israel  Free  Trade  Area  Agreement  (as 
of  1987)  have  lowered  and  will  lower  further  these  tariffs,  thus  mak- 
ing Israeli  textile  and  apparel  products  marginally  competitive.  Duty 
savings  were  not  expected  to  play  a  major  role  in  increasing  Israel's 
trade  competitiveness  in  these  markets  as  long  as  Israeli  wages  in 
these  industries  were  higher  then  comparable  wages  in  Asia.  Be- 
cause they  pay  higher  wages,  Israeli  textile  and  apparel  producers 
have  continued  to  concentrate  on  the  more  expensive  segment  of 
the  market. 

Construction 

In  1987  the  construction  industry  came  to  a  turning  point. 
Whereas  in  the  preceding  five  years,  the  construction  industry  was 
characterized  by  a  decline  in  output  of  about  2  percent  per  year, 
in  1987  the  output  grew  at  about  8  percent  and  returned  to  its  1984 
level.  The  only  subsectors  where  expanding  business  activity  has 
led  to  increased  demand  for  space  have  been  electricity,  transport, 
and  communications. 

The  shrinking  of  the  construction  sector  beginning  in  the  late 
1970s  became  much  sharper  in  the  1980s.  This  contraction  reflected 
not  only  an  absolute  decline  in  output  but  also  a  decline  in  produc- 
tivity (over  the  preceding  thirteen  years,  total  productivity  had  been 
falling  by  an  average  of  2  percent  per  year).  The  share  of  the  con- 
struction sector  in  the  overall  business  sector  declined  from  19  per- 
cent in  1972  to  9  percent  in  1987.  In  1988  the  construction  period 
required  for  residential  housing  was  twice  as  long  as  for  most  in- 
dustrialized countries  in  Europe  or  for  the  United  States. 

Tourism 

Tourism  has  always  been  an  important  source  of  foreign  cur- 
rency for  Israel.  In  1984  this  industry  earned  US$1.08  billion.  The 
Israeli  airlines  earned  an  additional  US$210  million  in  tourist- 
related  business.  In  1986,  929,631  tourists  arrived  by  air  and  18,252 


158 


The  Economy 


arrived  by  sea.  Another  17,563  tourists  arrived  from  Jordan  by 
land  via  the  Allenby  Bridge.  Sixty  percent  of  total  1986  tourists 
originated  in  Europe;  an  additional  20  percent  originated  in  the 
United  States. 

Although  the  1986  figures  are  respectable,  they  represent  a  decline 
by  13  percent  over  the  preceding  three  years.  Moreover,  the  1986 
figure  for  American  tourists  is  41  percent  lower  than  comparable 
figures  for  the  years  1983  through  1985.  This  decline  in  tourism 
to  Israel  in  1986  reflected  a  general  decline  in  American  tourism 
to  the  Middle  East,  which  was  caused  by  security  considerations 
and  by  a  weakening  of  the  United  States  dollar  against  European 
currencies. 

Energy 

Israel  depends  almost  totally  on  imported  fuel  for  its  energy  re- 
quirements; domestic  production  of  crude  petroleum  and  natural 
gas  is  negligible.  After  the  June  1967  War,  Israel  acquired  a  large 
portion  of  its  oil  supply  from  captured  Egyptian  fields  in  the  Sinai 
Peninsula.  In  1979  these  fields  were  returned  to  Egypt.  Explora- 
tion within  Israel  was  continuing  in  the  mid-1980s,  with  interest 
centered  on  the  Dead  Sea  and  northern  Negev  areas,  as  well  as 
in  the  Helez  region  along  the  coastal  plain  near  Ashqelon  (see 
fig.  8).  Despite  having  spent  about  US$250  million  between  1975 
and  1985  searching  for  oil,  Israel  remained  almost  devoid  of  domes- 
tic energy  sources.  By  1986  domestic  and  foreign  oil  exploration 
in  Israel  ground  to  a  near  halt,  although  Occidental  Petroleum 
(headed  by  Armand  Hammer)  continued  its  seismic  studies  in 
preparation  for  future  drilling. 

Because  of  the  failure  to  find  economically  worthwhile  deposits 
of  fossil  fuels,  Israel  has  devoted  large  sums  to  developing  other 
energy  sources,  particularly  solar  energy.  In  fact,  Israel  has  long 
been  an  acknowledged  leader  in  this  field.  Overall,  the  structure 
of  Israel's  energy  economy  has  changed  considerably  since  1973. 
Between  1982  and  1984,  about  50  percent  of  Israel's  electricity  came 
from  coal.  By  1985  oil-to-coal  conversion  programs  made  coal  the 
source  of  17  percent  of  Israel's  primary  energy.  It  appeared  un- 
likely in  1988  that  a  major  improvement  in  Israel's  energy  balance 
would  occur. 

The  Arab  oil  embargo  and  the  Iranian  Islamic  Revolution 
have  forced  Israel  to  diversify  both  its  coal  and  oil  imports.  In 
1986  Israel's  major  sources  of  coal  were  Australia,  South 
Africa,  and  Britain.  The  bulk  of  Israel's  oil  came  from  Mexico  and 
Egypt. 


159 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Fuels 

1 

Natural  gas 

m 

Oil  field 

ft 

Oil  refinery 

•   Oil  pipeline 

— »   Gas  pipeline 

Crude  oil  storage 

MANUFACTURING 

Diamond  cutting 

Heavy  industry 

Light  industry 

Textiles 

Q 

Food  products 

g 

Chemicals 

Aircraft  industry 

Nuclear  research 

MINING 

® 

Potash 

Manganese 

Phosphate 

GAZA  STRIP 

(Israeli  occupied, 
status  to  ' 
determined) 


The  Israeli  proclamation 
that  Jerusalem  be  the  national 
capital  is  not  recognized  by  the 
United  States  government. 


International 
boundary 

Populated  place 

Armistice  line, 
1949 

Armistice  line, 
1950 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


Figure  8.  Economic  Activity,  1988 
160 


The  Economy 


Agriculture 

Historically,  agriculture  has  played  a  more  important  role  in 
Israeli  national  life  than  its  economic  contribution  would  indicate. 
It  has  had  a  central  place  in  Zionist  ideology  and  has  been  a  major 
factor  in  the  settlement  of  the  country  and  the  absorption  of  new 
immigrants  although  its  income-producing  importance  has  been 
minimal.  As  the  economy  has  developed,  the  importance  of  agricul- 
ture has  declined  even  further.  For  example,  by  1979  agricultural 
output  accounted  for  just  under  6  percent  of  GDP.  In  1985  agricul- 
tural output  accounted  for  5.1  percent  of  GDP,  whereas  manufac- 
turing accounted  for  23.4  percent. 

In  1981 ,  the  year  of  the  last  agricultural  census  (as  of  1988),  there 
were  43,000  farm  units  with  an  overall  average  size  of  13.5  hect- 
ares. Of  these,  19.8  percent  were  smaller  than  1  hectare,  75.7  per- 
cent were  between  1  and  9  hectares,  3.3  percent  were  between  10 
and  49  hectares,  0.4  percent  were  between  50  and  190  hectares, 
and  0.8  percent  were  more  than  200  hectares.  Of  the  380,000  hect- 
ares under  cultivation  in  that  year,  20.8  percent  was  under  per- 
manent cultivation  and  79.2  percent  under  rotating  cultivation. 
The  farm  units  also  included  a  total  of  160,000  hectares  of  land 
used  for  purposes  other  than  cultivation.  In  general,  land  was  di- 
vided as  follows:  forest,  5.7  percent;  pasture,  40.2  percent;  culti- 
vated, 21.5  percent,  and  desert  and  all  other  uses,  32.6  percent. 
Cultivation  was  based  mainly  in  three  zones:  the  northern  coastal 
plains,  the  hills  of  the  interior,  and  the  upper  Jordan  Valley. 

Agricultural  activities  generally  were  conducted  in  cooperative 
settlements,  which  fell  into  two  principal  types:  kibbutzim  and 
moshavim  (see  Glossary).  Kibbutzim  often  served  strategic  or  defen- 
sive purposes  in  addition  to  purely  agricultural  functions.  In  the 
1980s,  such  settlements  usually  engaged  in  mixed  farming  and  had 
some  processing  industry  attached  to  them.  A  moshav  provides  its 
members  with  credit  and  other  services,  such  as  marketing  and 
purchasing  of  seeds,  fertilizer,  pesticides,  and  the  like.  By  centraliz- 
ing some  essential  purchases,  the  moshavim  were  able  to  benefit 
from  the  advantages  of  size  without  having  to  adopt  the  kibbutz 
ideology  (see  Distinctive  Social  Institutions,  ch.  2). 

The  agricultural  sector  declined  in  importance  from  1952  to  1985. 
This  decline  reflected  the  rapid  development  of  manufacturing  and 
services  rather  than  a  decrease  of  agricultural  productivity.  In  fact, 
from  1966  through  1984,  agriculture  was  far  more  productive  than 
industry. 

Efficient  use  of  the  factors  of  production  and  the  change  in  their 
relative  composition  explain  a  significant  portion  of  the  increased 


161 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

productivity  in  the  agricultural  sector.  From  1955  to  1983,  the 
agricultural  sector  cut  back  on  employed  persons  and  increased  the 
use  of  water,  fertilizer,  and  pesticides,  leading  to  a  substantial  in- 
crease in  productivity.  Other  factors  that  contributed  to  increased 
productivity  included  research,  training,  improved  crop  varieties, 
and  better  organization.  These  changes  in  factor  utilization  led  to 
a  twelvefold  increase  in  the  value  of  agricultural  production,  cal- 
culated in  constant  prices,  between  1950  and  1983. 

In  absolute  terms,  the  amount  of  cultivated  land  increased  from 
250,000  hectares  in  FY  1950  to  440,000  hectares  in  FY  1984.  Of 
this  total,  the  percentage  of  irrigated  land  increased  from  15  per- 
cent in  FY  1950  (37,500  hectares)  to  around  54  percent  in  FY  1984 
(237,000  hectares).  The  amount  of  water  used  for  agricultural  pur- 
poses increased  from  332  million  cubic  meters  in  FY  1950  to  1.2 
billion  cubic  meters  in  FY  1984. 

The  most  dramatic  change  over  this  period  was  the  reduction 
in  the  agricultural  labor  force.  Whereas  the  number  of  workers  em- 
ployed in  agriculture  in  the  early  1950s  reached  about  100,000, 
or  17.4  percent  of  the  civilian  labor  force,  by  1986  it  had  dropped 
to  70,000,  or  5.3  percent  of  the  civilian  labor  force. 

Agriculture  has  benefited  from  high  capital  inputs  and  careful 
development,  making  full  use  of  available  technology  over  a  long 
period.  Specialization  in  certain  profitable  export  crops,  in  turn, 
has  generated  more  funds  for  investment  in  agricultural  produc- 
tion and  processing,  as  has  the  development  of  sophisticated  mar- 
keting mechanisms.  In  particular,  Israel  has  had  success  in 
exporting  citrus  fruit,  eggs,  vegetables,  poultry,  and  melons  (see 
table  9,  Appendix  A). 

Another  factor  important  in  Israel's  agricultural  development 
has  been  the  sector's  impressive  performance  in  foreign  trade.  The 
rapid  growth  of  agricultural  exports  was  accompanied  by  a  gen- 
eral increase  in  total  exports.  Between  1950  and  1983,  a  promi- 
nent development  was  the  decline  (by  65  percent)  in  the  importance 
of  citrus  fruit  exports  in  relation  to  total  raw  agricultural  exports. 
This  decrease  was  more  than  balanced  by  the  increase  in  impor- 
tance of  processed  agricultural  products,  whose  exports  increased 
by  4,000  percent  over  the  same  period. 

Financial  Services 

In  the  late  1980s,  Israel's  financial  system  consisted  of  various 
financial  intermediaries  providing  a  range  of  services  from  short- 
term  overdraft  privileges  to  the  financing  of  long-term  investments 
in  construction,  industry,  agriculture,  and  research  and  develop- 
ment. This  financial  system  was  concentrated  among  a  limited 


162 


The  Economy 


number  of  large  banking  groups  under  the  supervision  and  con- 
trol of  the  Bank  of  Israel. 

The  government-owned  Bank  of  Israel  is  Israel's  central  bank. 
Its  legal  powers  and  functions  allow  it  to  determine  policies  and 
regulate  activities  in  all  fiscal  areas,  including  interest  rates,  money 
supply,  foreign  currency,  and  export  financing  and  control.  As  part 
of  its  duties,  the  Bank  of  Israel  seeks  to  create  institutions  specializ- 
ing in  defined  sectors  of  business  or  customers.  Consequendy,  bank- 
ing corporations  have  been  divided  into  two  main  groups:  ordinary 
banking  institutions,  such  as  banks,  foreign  banks,  and  merchant 
banks — all  of  which  are  subject  to  liquidity  regulations  on  both  assets 
and  liabilities — and  specialized  banking  institutions,  such  as  mort- 
gage banks,  investment  finance  banks,  financial  institutions,  and 
joint  services  companies. 

The  financial  system  in  1988  consisted  of  five  major  bank  groups: 
Bank  HaPoalim,  Bank  Leumi  Le  Israel,  Israel  Discount  Bank, 
United  Mizrahi  Bank,  and  the  First  International  Bank  of  Israel. 
Given  the  high  degree  of  concentration  (the  three  largest  bank 
groups  accounted  for  more  than  80  percent  of  total  bank  assets), 
banks  operated  in  an  oligopolistic  environment,  with  little  compe- 
tition in  determining  lending  and  borrowing  rates. 

The  financial  system  provided  three  types  of  credit  instruments: 
short-term,  nondirected  credit  financing;  short-term,  directed  credit 
financing,  and  long-term  and  medium-term  credit  financing.  The 
granting  of  directed  credit  was  the  responsibility  of  the  Bank  of 
Israel.  This  credit,  however,  actually  was  provided  by  joint  funds 
of  the  Bank  of  Israel  and  the  commercial  banks,  and  it  was  primarily 
intended  to  meet  the  working  capital  requirements  of  export  enter- 
prises. Seventy-five  percent  of  these  funds  were  in  foreign  currency, 
with  interest  charges  calculated  on  the  basis  of  United  States  dol- 
lar credits. 

Apart  from  directed  credit,  the  other  major  form  of  short-term 
capital  was  nondirected  credit,  which  was  composed  of  overdraft 
facilities.  This  credit  facility  provided  the  customer  with  great  flex- 
ibility at  a  nonindexed  fee,  which  adjusted  with  inflation  on  a  peri- 
odic basis.  The  other  loans  that  were  denominated  in  new  Israeli 
shekels  (NIS — see  Glossary)  were  either  indexed  to  the  consumer 
price  index  or,  if  nonindexed,  were  fixed- term  credits. 

Medium-term  and  long-term  loans  (exceeding  eighteen  months) 
were  primarily  directed  government  loans.  These  credit  flows  were 
supervised  by  investment  finance  banks  such  as  the  Industrial  De- 
velopment Bank  of  Israel.  The  government  generally  determined 
how  medium-term  and  long-term  investment  was  encouraged  and 
how  it  was  financed.  In  an  economy  with  a  need  for  short-term 


163 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

capital,  long-term  financing  was  also  used  for  financial  activities 
other  than  investment. 

Government  intervention  in  investment  financing  has  taken 
forms  such  as  direct  budget  credits,  development  loans,  and  in- 
vestment grants  (under  the  Law  for  the  Encouragement  of  Capi- 
tal Investment).  Since  1974  development  loans — whose  interest  rates 
were  not  adjusted  for  changes  in  the  rate  of  inflation — have  con- 
tained a  subsidy  element  that  arises  from  the  differential  between 
the  low  interest  rate  paid  by  the  borrower  on  the  one  hand  and 
a  reasonable  market  rate  of  interest  plus  the  expected  rate  of  infla- 
tion on  the  other.  Beginning  in  1979,  the  government  linked  de- 
velopment loans,  thus  reducing  this  subsidization.  Despite  this 
linkage,  the  persistent  high  rate  of  inflation  had  kept  the  effective 
real  interest  on  these  linked  loans  negative. 

Although  Israel  had  a  well-developed  banking  system,  it  did  not 
have  a  well-developed  stock  market  in  1988.  The  Tel  Aviv  Stock 
Exchange  (TASE),  founded  in  1953,  had  never  developed  properly 
because  of  the  government's  domination  of  activities  relating  to 
the  raising  and  allocation  of  capital.  TASE  thus  remained  a  shal- 
low market,  poorly  regulated  and  dominated  by  the  major  banks, 
who  assumed  all  stock  market  roles — brokers,  underwriters,  issuers, 
fund  managers,  counselors,  and  investors. 

Between  1975  and  1983,  private  corporations  increasingly  raised 
more  of  their  capital  on  the  stock  exchange.  Most  of  the  shares 
sold  were  highly  overvalued  and  carried  little  or  no  voting  rights. 
By  the  end  of  1982,  the  total  value  of  the  shares  registered  on  the 
TASE  reached  more  than  US$17  billion;  in  real  terms,  the  value 
had  more  than  doubled  in  a  year  and  had  multiplied  fivefold  since 
1979.  This  development  stood  in  sharp  contrast  to  Israel's  stag- 
nant GNP  growth  and  the  worsening  trade  and  debt  position 
of  the  economy.  In  January  1983,  however,  the  market  sharply 
declined.  In  a  matter  of  days,  most  speculators  lost  50  to  70  per- 
cent of  the  value  of  their  stocks.  Mutual  funds,  which  had  been 
responsible  for  much  of  the  market  manipulation,  became  nearly 
valueless. 

In  October  1983,  the  shares  of  the  banks  (which  up  to  that  point 
had  been  unaffected  by  the  market  malaise)  finally  collapsed.  Their 
crash  precipitated  a  dramatic  change  in  the  development  of  Israel's 
banking  system. 

The  banking  industry  had  expanded  spectacularly  in  the  1970s, 
both  at  home  and  abroad.  This  process  had  forced  the  banks  to 
increase  their  capital  base  rapidly.  The  gradual  advance  of  infla- 
tion in  the  economy,  and  its  distorting  effect  on  financial  statements 
drawn  up  under  historic  accounting  rules,  only  added  to  this  thirst 


164 


Worker  assembling  electronic  equipment 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Israel,  Washington 


165 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

for  capital.  But  in  a  capital  market  dominated  by  the  government, 
which  was  able  and  willing  to  issue  endless  quantities  of  index-linked 
bonds,  the  banks  found  this  capital  difficult  to  raise. 

The  banks'  solution  was  to  transform  their  shares  into  index- 
linked  paper  by  creating  a  system  that  ensured  that  the  price  of 
their  shares  would  keep  pushing  upward,  irrespective  of  the  under- 
lying market  forces.  Over  the  years,  bank  shares  were  perceived 
as  a  riskless  investment.  By  1983  the  price  of  bank  shares  was  stead- 
ily becoming  more  detached  from  their  true  value.  When  it  be- 
came obvious  in  1983  that  the  government  would  have  to  devalue 
its  currency,  many  people  began  to  liquidate  their  holdings  of  shekel- 
denominated  assets  in  favor  of  foreign  currency.  The  assets  most 
widely  held  and  most  easily  liquidated  were  bank  shares.  The  sell- 
ing wave  began  in  the  summer  of  1983  and  peaked  in  October, 
forcing  the  government  to  intervene.  In  1988  the  government 
undertook  to  secure  the  US$7  billion  obligation  (equal  to  the  pub- 
lic's holding  of  bank  shares)  at  the  United  States  dollar  value  before 
the  crash.  The  closing  of  the  TASE,  on  October  6,  1983,  became 
known  as  the  "economic  day  of  atonement"  and  represented  the 
end  of  the  speculators'  paradise  created  and  supported  by  leading 
Israeli  banks. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Beginning  in  1948,  the  government  invested  large  sums  to  de- 
velop a  first-class  transportation  infrastructure.  The  main  projects 
undertaken  were  the  construction  of  the  Qishon  element  of  the  har- 
bor at  Haifa  and  the  Ashdod  port,  the  building  of  railroads  be- 
tween Haifa  and  Tel  Aviv  and  from  Tel  Aviv  south  to  Beersheba, 
Dimona,  and  Zin,  and  the  construction  of  several  major  roads  in 
the  center  of  the  country  as  well  as  many  new  roads  in  peripheral 
regions  (see  fig.  9). 

Rapid  economic  growth  and  the  removal  of  the  limitation  on 
importing  private  cars  and  buses  created  a  growing  demand  for 
transportation  services  in  the  early  1960s.  This  demand  was  met 
by  increased  public  transportation  services  and  by  private  trans- 
portation expenditures.  In  1984  the  subsidy  on  public  transport 
equaled  US$13  million.  In  1985  Israel's  13,410  kilometers  of  roads 
were  used  by  776,000  vehicles,  of  which  about  624,000  were  pri- 
vate cars,  about  115,000  were  trucks  and  other  commercial  vehi- 
cles, and  about  5,500  were  buses.  In  1988  there  were  two  main 
public  carriers — Egged,  with  about  4,000  buses  operating  through- 
out the  country,  and  Dan,  with  approximately  1,500  buses.  Both 
of  these  carriers  were  cooperatives  that  charged  subsidized  tariffs 
determined  by  agreement  with  the  government. 


166 


The  Economy 


Israel  also  had  a  government-run  railroad  system.  In  1986  there 
were  528  kilometers  of  state-owned  railroad  linking  Jerusalem,  Tel 
Aviv,  Haifa,  and  Beersheba.  The  government  had  a  long-term  plan 
to  extend  the  Beersheba  line  along  the  Dead  Sea  and  south  to  Elat 
and  to  develop  a  rapid  rail  line  from  Petah  Tiqwa  to  Tel  Aviv. 
Total  railroad  passenger  traffic  was  2,814,000  in  1985,  and  total 
freight  carried  (primarily  phosphates,  grains,  coal,  and  potash)  was 
6,086,000  tons.  Given  the  government  status  of  the  rail  system, 
however,  it  could  not  compete  with  other  transportation  modes. 
Between  1965  and  1985,  railroad  use  declined  because  of  cutbacks 
in  rail  services.  In  1986  travel  by  truck  or  car  was  faster  than  by 
rail  on  all  lines  except  the  Haifa-Tel  Aviv  line,  where  it  was 
identical. 

As  a  result  of  Israel's  geopolitical  situation,  almost  99  percent 
of  its  trade  was  transported  by  ship.  Thus,  in  the  first  twenty  years 
of  statehood,  the  government  made  a  special  effort  to  build  a  com- 
mercial fleet.  In  1985  about  9,205  tons  of  freight  were  unloaded 
at  Israeli  ports:  55  percent  at  Haifa,  39.3  percent  at  Ashdod,  and 
5.7  percent  at  Elat.  During  the  same  year,  7,088  tons  were  loaded: 
22  percent  in  Haifa,  68.7  percent  at  Ashdod,  and  9.3  percent  at 
Elat.  In  the  1970s,  two  additional,  specialized  ports  were  opened: 
an  oil  terminal  at  Ashqelon  and  a  coal  terminal  at  Hadera.  These 
open-sea,  offshore  ports  were  operated  by  special  port  administra- 
tions independent  of  the  Israel  Ports  Authority. 

The  merchant  fleet  was  3,050,000  deadweight  tons  in  1984.  The 
main  shipping  companies  were  (in  order  of  importance)  Zim,  El 
Yam,  Dizengoff,  and  Maritime  Fruit  Carriers.  During  the  late 
1960s,  two  structural  and  technological  changes  took  place  in  the 
shipping  industry.  First,  improved  cargo-handling  technologies  and 
containerization  led  to  the  use  of  more  specialized  ships.  Second, 
ships  increased  in  size,  especially  bulk  carriers  and  tankers.  Despite 
these  changes — and  the  importance  placed  on  sea  transportation — 
Zim  (owned  by  the  government,  the  Histadrut,  and  the  Israel  Cor- 
poration) and  El  Yam  continued  to  sell  unprofitable  old  ships  in 
the  hope  of  becoming  profitable. 

In  1988  Israel  had  one  international  airport  at  Lod,  but  special 
charter  flights  also  used  smaller  airports  such  as  Qalandiyah,  near 
Jerusalem,  and  Elat.  El  Al,  the  government-owned  national  car- 
rier, flew  a  total  of  36.3  million  kilometers  in  1984,  carrying 
1,450,000  passengers  on  9,646  international  flights.  In  1985  ap- 
proximately 455,000  passengers  arrived  in  Israel  on  charter  flights. 
Inland  air  services  were  provided  by  Arkia  Israeli  Airlines,  which 
operated  flights  to  major  cities. 


167 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


International 
boundary 
National  capital 
Populated  place 
Airport 

Port 

Road 

Railroad 

Armistice  line, 

1949 

Armistice  line, 
1950 

40  Kilometers 


United  Nations 
Disengagement 
Observer  Force  Zone 


SYRIA 


The  1950  Israeli  proclamation 
that  Jerusalem  be  the  national 
capital  is  not  recognized  by  the 
United  States  government. 


Mediterranean  Herz/'^a 

Tel  Aviv 


Cease-fire  line,  1967 


Amman 


JORDAN 


)j\/lizpe  Ramon  / 

X  I 


l\  Yqtvata  i  I 

tY  1 


Em.  l- 
gulf  of  Aqafa^, 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


Figure  9.  Transportation  System,  1988 
168 


The  Economy 


Like  other  developing  countries,  Israel  has  constantly  battled  the 
excess  demand  for  telecommunications  services.  The  telecommu- 
nications industry  is  characterized  by  its  high  capital  intensity — it 
requires  a  full  cable  network  system.  In  1988  Israel  was  still  lag- 
ging in  the  development  of  a  telecommunications  system  adequate 
to  meet  the  needs  of  its  clients.  While  the  industry  was  expanding, 
it  continued  to  represent  a  major  weakness  of  the  economy. 

Israel  has  long  been  plagued  by  delays  in  building  new  telephone 
exchanges  and  laying  cables  to  meet  the  growing  needs  of  the  citi- 
zenry, businesses,  and  the  new  age  of  computer  communication. 
Israel  had  about  1.9  million  telephones  in  FY  1986.  More  than 
250,000  citizens,  however,  remained  on  waiting  lists  to  receive  tele- 
phones that  year.  Some  Israelis  had  been  waiting  seven  or  more 
years  for  telephones.  Around  99  percent  of  the  telephones  in  Israel 
were  connected  to  the  international  direct  dialing  system. 

Three  ground  satellite  stations  in  1988  facilitated  satellite  con- 
nections between  Israel  and  the  rest  of  the  world.  Overseas  con- 
nections also  were  possible  through  underwater  cables.  In  April 
1988,  Israel  announced  plans  for  a  five-year  telecommunications 
development  program,  costing  approximately  US$2  billion.  The 
plan  included  an  undersea  cable  from  Israel  to  Europe  and  the  in- 
stallation of  various  satellite  and  cable  television  facilities.  In  ad- 
dition, a  multicapacity  transatlantic  cable  was  being  planned  in 
1988  to  provide  600  channels  for  communication  with  the  North 
American  continent.  Furthermore,  in  May  1988  the  cornerstone 
was  laid  for  a  US$1 70  million  Voice  of  America  transmission  relay 
station  in  the  Nahal  HaArava  north  of  Elat. 

Foreign  Trade 

In  1988  Israel  had  a  quasi-open  economy.  Its  chronic  trade  im- 
balance reflected  the  country's  military  burden,  its  need  to  import 
capital  and  raw  materials,  and  its  excess  civilian  consumption.  This 
trade  deficit  had  long  been  covered  by  transfers  and  loans  of  vari- 
ous sorts.  Despite  drops  in  the  prices  of  oil  and  other  commodities 
(the  effects  of  which  were  felt  mainly  in  1986)  and  improvement 
in  Israel's  terms  of  trade  because  of  the  fall  in  value  of  the  United 
States  dollar  and  the  parallel  strengthening  of  European  curren- 
cies, the  balance  of  trade  worsened  in  1986.  The  drop  reflected 
a  surge  in  inventory  rebuilding  after  the  1984-85  recession. 

Despite  their  high  level,  Israeli  tariffs  were  not  the  major  trade 
barrier.  In  addition  to  the  standard  specific  and  ad  valorem  tariffs, 
Israel  also  imposed  a  purchase  tax,  compulsory  surcharges,  un- 
linked deposits,  excise  duties,  stamp  duties,  and  a  value-added  tax 
on  all  imported  products.  These  taxes  were  designed  to  regulate 


169 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

domestic  demand  and  to  raise  revenue.  Lacking  a  mechanism  by 
which  to  deal  with  dumping  and  other  unfair  trade  practices,  the 
government  historically  used  the  unilaterally  imposed  compulsory 
surcharge  as  a  convenient  measure  by  which  to  protect  domestic 
products  from  foreign  competition.  Most  of  these  charges,  however, 
were  rebatable  to  exporters  as  part  of  the  export  subsidy  program. 
The  brunt  of  these  taxes,  therefore,  was  borne  by  the  nonexport 
sector. 

One  potentially  discriminatory  nontariff  barrier  arose  from  the 
administration  of  the  purchasing  tax.  For  purposes  of  the  purchasing 
tax,  the  taxable  value  of  an  imported  product  must  reflect  its  domes- 
tic wholesale  price.  The  percentage  difference  between  the  imputed 
wholesale  price  and  the  tariff-included  import  price  represents  the 
markup,  known  by  the  Hebrew  acronym  TAMA.  As  long  as  the 
TAMA  reflects  the  true  wholesale  markup,  there  is  no  increased 
protectionism.  Only  to  the  extent  that  the  true  markup  is  less  than 
the  TAMA,  is  there  an  implicit  hidden  tariff  in  Israel. 

From  1970  to  1986,  Israel's  primary  exports  consisted  of  basic 
manufactures,  machines,  and  transportation  equipment,  chemi- 
cals, and  miscellaneous  manufactures.  Primary  imports  were  basic 
manufactures,  machines,  and  transportation  equipment.  The 
United  States  has  been  Israel's  single  largest  trading  partner, 
providing  a  market  for  approximately  25  percent  of  Israel's  ex- 
ports and  supplying  about  20  percent  of  its  nonmilitary  imports 
(see  table  10,  Appendix  A). 

Although  as  of  1988  the  United  States  was  Israel's  largest  in- 
dividual trading  partner,  the  majority  of  trade  has  been  with  the 
European  Economic  Community  (EEC).  Since  1975  Israel-EEC 
trade  has  been  governed  by  the  Israel-EEC  Preferential  Agreement. 
This  agreement  eliminated  tariff  barriers  on  trade  in  manufactured 
goods  between  the  two  entities.  Under  its  terms,  imports  of  Israeli 
manufactured  products  were  granted  duty-free  entry  to  the  EEC 
in  July  1977,  except  for  certain  products  (considered  to  be  import- 
sensitive  by  the  EEC)  on  which  full  duty  elimination  was  delayed 
until  December  1979.  Because  the  EEC  offered  trade  preferences 
to  other  developing  countries  and  because  Greece,  Spain,  and  Por- 
tugal entered  the  EEC,  Israel  did  not  receive  significant  preferen- 
tial benefits  from  the  EEC.  Israel  eliminated  duties  on  about  60 
percent  of  its  manufactured  imports  from  the  EEC  in  January  1980, 
and  complete  duty-free  treatment  was  to  be  phased  in  by  January 
1989. 

The  Israel-EEC  Preferential  Agreement  also  attempted  to  pro- 
vide for  a  substantial  reduction  in  trade  barriers  for  agricultural 
products.  Although  the  EEC  agreed  to  make  tariff  reductions  on 


170 


Israeli-invented  Koffler 
nuclear  accelerator  at  the 
Weizmann  Institute  of  Science, 
Rehovot 
Courtesy  Embassy 
of  Israel,  Washington 


Solar  energy  absorbers 
used  in  producing  electricity 
Courtesy  Embassy 
of  Israel,  Washington 


171 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

about  80  percent  of  its  agricultural  imports  from  Israel,  Israeli  ex- 
porters still  had  to  comply  with  the  EEC's  Common  Agricultural 
Policy  nontariff  requirements  and  often  were  faced  with  quotas  and 
voluntary  export  restraint  agreements.  As  a  result,  reciprocal  Israeli 
agricultural  tariff  concessions  to  the  EEC  have  been  very  limited. 

Israel-United  States  trade  was  far  less  distorted  by  tariff  and  non- 
tariff  barriers,  at  least  from  the  United  States'  side.  The  overwhelm- 
ing majority  of  Israeli  exports  entered  the  United  States  market 
duty  free.  By  contrast,  a  large  share  of  United  States  exports  to 
Israel  not  only  were  subject  to  substantially  higher  tariffs,  but  also 
were  subject  to  a  variety  of  nontariff  barriers,  including  a  substantial 
"hidden  tariff." 

Total  Israeli  exports  to  the  United  States  were  about  US$2.3 
billion  in  1986.  Of  this  amount,  only  2.4  percent  (US$57.6  mil- 
lion) was  subject  to  duty.  Duties  collected  on  these  products  were 
US$5.4  million,  an  average  rate  of  9.6  percent.  Because  the  ad 
valorem  equivalent  tariff  rate  is  calculated  as  the  ratio  of  duties 
collected  to  dutiable  value,  this  figure  overstates  the  average  tariff 
rate  on  Israeli  exports  to  the  United  States. 

The  leading  General  System  of  Preferences  (GSP)  exports  to  the 
United  States  from  1978  through  1986  consisted  of  jewelry,  X-ray 
equipment,  gold  necklaces,  telephone  equipment  and  parts,  electro- 
medical equipment  and  parts,  office  machines,  and  radiation  equip- 
ment. Apart  from  jewelry,  all  the  other  major  GSP  exports  were 
high-technology  goods. 

The  product  composition  of  dutiable  exports  helped  explain  the 
low  overall  duty  paid.  The  primary  reason  for  the  low  duties  paid 
was  that,  between  1978  and  1980,  the  United  States  subjected  dia- 
mond imports  (Israel's  principal  export),  to  a  1  to  2  percent  duty. 
As  of  1981 ,  these  items  entered  at  a  zero  most  favored  nation  (MFN) 
rate.  The  other  major  export  items  that  entered  the  United  States 
at  a  zero  MFN  duty  rate  included  potassium  chloride,  airplanes, 
emeralds,  aircraft  parts,  potassium  nitrate,  and  antiques.  Major 
exports  that  remained  dutiable  in  1986  included  agricultural 
products,  footwear,  textiles,  and  apparel. 

Informed  sources  claimed  that  an  elimination  of  United  States 
duties  under  the  United  States-Israel  Free  Trade  Area  (FT A)  Agree- 
ment on  these  products  would  lead  to  an  estimated  increase  of  ap- 
proximately 1  percent  of  total  Israeli  exports  to  the  United  States. 
The  major  categories  affected  will  be  agricultural  products  such 
as  cheeses,  olives,  and  processed  tomato  products,  and  textile  and 
apparel  items  such  as  swimsuits,  knitwear,  undergarments,  and 
thread.  Very  few  high-technology  products  will  be  affected  by  the 
FT  A  agreement. 


172 


The  Economy 


Balance  of  Payments 

Israel  has  had  a  balance  of  payments  deficit  throughout  its  exis- 
tence, primarily  because  of  its  heavy  defense  burden  and  the  costs 
associated  with  immigration.  This  deficit  has  been  covered  by  capital 
transfers  in  the  form  of  loans  and,  in  recent  years,  grants.  These 
grants  historically  have  come  from  Diaspora  Jewry.  Since  1974  the 
United  States  government  has  become  by  far  the  most  important 
source  of  financial  support,  at  first  in  the  form  of  loans,  but  since 
1979  in  the  form  of  grants. 

The  balance  of  payments  position  fluctuated  widely,  following 
major  shifts  in  economic  policy.  Between  1980  and  1983,  the  civilian 
portion  of  the  import  deficit  rose  rapidly,  with  a  mounting  increase 
in  the  foreign  debt.  In  1984  and  1985,  these  trends  reversed  them- 
selves as  increased  United  States  grants  halted  the  rise  in  foreign 
debt  and  capital  exports. 

At  the  end  of  1986,  Israel's  net  foreign  debt  totaled  about  US$19 
billion.  The  size  of  this  debt  was  less  of  a  burden  than  it  would 
appear,  however,  because  US$10  billion  of  it  was  owed  to  the 
United  States  government  and  had  a  long  repayment  period.  A 
further  US$5.5  billion  was  owed  primarily  to  Diaspora  Jewry  (see 
table  11,  Appendix  A). 

In  August  1986,  the  Israeli  exchange  rate  was  pegged  to  a  five- 
country  currency  basket.  The  exchange  rate  remained  fixed  until 
January  1987.  This  policy,  combined  with  a  US$750  million  United 
States  emergency  grant-in-aid  and  a  reduction  in  oil  prices,  led 
to  increased  stabilization  of  Israel's  inflation.  In  the  first  quarter 
of  1988,  the  dollar-NIS  exchange  rate  stood  at  NISI. 60  =  US$1.00. 

The  Economic  Stabilization  Program  of  July  1985 

The  Economic  Stabilization  Program  adopted  in  July  1985  in- 
volved the  simultaneous  implementation  of  several  measures.  First, 
the  exchange  rate  was  devalued  by  18.8  percent  and  was  fixed  at 
the  level  of  NISI. 50  equaled  US$1.00.  This  rate  was  allowed  to 
fluctuate  within  a  2-percent  band.  Second,  domestic  prices  were 
allowed  to  rise  by  1 7  percent  and  thereafter  were  frozen  with  a  strin- 
gent price  control.  Third,  subsidies  were  reduced  by  US$750  mil- 
lion, as  taxes  were  increased  and  a  budget  cut  of  US$750  million 
was  implemented.  Fourth,  the  regular  anticipated  cost-of-living 
adjustment  was  suspended.  This  resulted  in  a  20  to  30  percent  ero- 
sion in  real  wages.  Under  Histadrut  pressure,  the  government  was 
forced  to  adjust  wages  to  counter  the  effects  of  the  devaluation. 
By  March  1986,  real  wages  had  recovered  their  losses.  Finally, 
monetary  policy  became  extremely  restrictive.  Because  the  inflation 


173 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

rate  was  reduced  to  20  percent  by  the  end  of  the  year,  the  return 
on  unlinked  shekel  deposits  became  unprecedented.  This  situation 
induced  a  shift  of  capital  from  linked  dollar  deposits  to  unlinked 
shekel  deposits.  Although  the  government  had  conceived  this  pro- 
gram as  a  short-term,  emergency  program,  it  was  extended  sev- 
eral times  because  of  its  success.  By  the  end  of  1986,  many  of  the 
price  controls  were  removed  with  no  visible  "repressed  inflation" 
appearing. 

Many  observers  believe  that  this  economic  program  was  suc- 
cessful because  its  two  anchors  were  the  exchange  rate  and  wage 
stability.  The  stability  in  these  two  prices,  coupled  with  the  new 
notion  that  inflation  would  erode  the  government's  real  revenues, 
forced  the  government  to  borrow  more.  The  program's  impact  on 
the  rate  of  inflation,  which  peaked  at  445  percent  in  FY  1984,  was 
little  short  of  sensational.  By  the  end  of  1986,  the  inflation  rate 
had  stabilized  at  20  percent — the  lowest  rate  since  1972. 

Outside  factors  also  helped  the  success  of  this  stabilization  pro- 
gram. The  program's  introduction  coincided  with  the  acceleration 
of  the  fall  of  the  United  States  dollar  on  international  markets.  Con- 
currently, the  decline  in  oil  prices  lowered  the  cost  of  increased 
imports  spurred  by  increased  Israeli  export  and  capital  market 
earnings. 

The  success  up  to  1988  of  the  measures  taken  has  encouraged 
the  government  to  consider  additional  reforms.  In  the  fall  of  1987, 
discussion  began  regarding  reforming  the  tax  system,  initiating  a 
privatization  program,  and  streamlining  the  tariff  structure. 

*    *  * 

Information  on  the  Israeli  economy  is  extensive.  Basic  data  are 
contained  in  the  annual  Statistical  Abstract  of  Israel  published  by  the 
Central  Bureau  of  Statistics  and  the  Annual  Report  published  by  the 
Bank  of  Israel.  The  Ministry  of  Finance's  annual  Budget  in  Brief 
provides  considerable  data  and  text  on  the  budget.  Additional  data 
and  text  are  included  in  the  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  (pub- 
lished quarterly)  and  Bank  of  Israel  Recent  Economic  Developments  (pub- 
lished irregularly),  and  in  the  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics'  Monthly 
Bulletin  of  Statistics .  An  additional  general  source  covering  a  range 
of  economic  subjects  is  the  monthly  Israel  Economist. 

The  best  up-to-date  work  on  the  Israeli  economy  and  Israeli  de- 
velopments from  1968  to  1978  is  The  Israeli  Economy:  Maturing 
Through  Crises,  edited  by  Yoram  Ben-Porath.  The  best  coverage 
of  the  period  from  1948  to  1968  can  be  found  in  Nadav  Halevi 
and  Ruth  Klinov-Malul's  The  Economic  Development  of  Israel.  Other, 


174 


The  Economy 


more  specialized,  books  include:  Israel:  A  Developing  Society,  edited 
by  A.  Arian;  Salomon  J.  Flink's  Israel,  Chaos  and  Challenge:  Politics 
vs.  Economics;  Fanny  Ginor's  Socio- Economic  Disparities  in  Israel;  David 
Horowitz's  Enigma  of  Economic  Growth:  A  Case  Study  of  Israel;  Michael 
Michaely's  Foreign  Trade  Regimes  and  Economic  Development:  Israel; 
Howard  Pack's  Structural  Change  and  Economic  Policy  in  Israel;  Don 
Patinkin's  The  Israeli  Economy;  Ira  Sharkansky's  What  Makes  Israel 
Tick:  How  Domestic  Policy-Makers  Cope  with  Constraints;  and  Michael 
Wolffsohn's  Israel,  Polity,  Society,  and  Economy,  1882-1986. 

The  best  report  on  economic  developments  in  the  occupied  ter- 
ritories is  Raphael  Meron's  Economic  Development  in  Judea-Samaria 
and  the  Gaza  District:  Economic  Growth  and  Structural  Change,  1970-80. 
(For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


175 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


Sephardic  chief  rabbi,  Orthodox  woman  with  wrapped  bandana,  and  Arab 
male  with  qafiyah 


Israeli  governmental  and  political  structures 

stem  from  certain  premises  and  institutional  arrangements  gener- 
ally associated  with  West  European  parliamentary  democracies, 
East  European  and  Central  European  institutions  and  traditions, 
and  even  some  Middle  Eastern  sociopolitical  patterns.  These  in- 
fluences were  transmitted  though  the  unique  history,  political  cul- 
ture, and  political  institutions  of  Israel's  formative  prestate  period 
and  the  Middle  Eastern  environment  in  which  it  is  situated.  The 
legitimacy  of  Israeli  society  and  the  identification  by  the  majority 
Jewish  population  with  the  state  and  its  institutions  rest  on  several 
foundations:  Zionist  Jewish  nationalism,  the  existence  of  an  out- 
side threat  to  Israeli  security,  Judaism,  collectivism,  and  democracy. 
These  bases  are  affected  by  the  Arab/Palestinian-Israeli  conflict 
(hereafter  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict)  and  by  the  pluralist  nature  of 
Israeli  society,  in  which  a  substantial  Arab  minority  participates 
in  the  country's  political  system,  but  has  an  ambivalent  role  within 
the  majority  Jewish  society  (see  Minority  Groups,  ch.  2). 

The  Israeli  political  system  is  characterized  by  certain  West 
European  democratic  arrangements:  elected  government,  multi- 
party competition,  a  high  level  of  voter  participation  in  local  and 
national  elections,  an  independent  judiciary  that  is  the  country's 
foremost  guardian  of  civil  liberties,  a  vigorous  and  free  press,  and 
the  supremacy  of  civilian  rule.  Other  features,  such  as  collectivism 
and  a  lack  of  expression  of  the  liberal  component  in  Israeli  poli- 
tics, are  distinctly  East  European  and  Central  European  in  ori- 
gin. These  features  are  expressed  by  the  absence  of  a  written 
constitution  limiting  the  powers  of  government  and  imposing  re- 
straints on  the  majority  to  safeguard  the  rights  of  individuals,  par- 
ticularly in  matters  of  civil  rights  and  relations  between  state  and 
religious  interests.  In  the  late  1980s,  increasing  disagreement  over 
some  fundamental  questions,  for  instance,  the  state's  territorial 
boundaries  and  the  role  of  religion  in  the  state,  led  to  a  breakdown 
in  the  pre- 196 7  national  consensus  over  such  issues.  Such  disagree- 
ment has  resulted  in  intense  ideological  polarization  as  reflected 
in  electoral  and  parliamentary  stalemates  between  the  two  major 
political  parties — Likud  (Union)  and  the  Israel  Labor  Party  (gener- 
ally referred  to  as  the  Labor  Party  or  simply  Labor) — and  their 
allies. 

In  July  1984,  the  political  system  faced  a  challenge  of  unprece- 
dented magnitude.  For  the  first  time  in  the  country's  thirty-six-year 


179 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

postindependence  history,  neither  major  party  was  able  to  form 
a  coalition  government  without  the  other's  equal  participation.  The 
result,  the  National  Unity  Government  formed  in  September  1984, 
represented  a  milestone  in  the  country's  political  development.  That 
development  had  already  undergone  an  unprecedented  shock  in 
May  1977,  when  the  left-of-center  Labor  Party  was  voted  out  of 
office  for  the  first  time  after  nearly  half  a  century  of  unbroken  politi- 
cal dominance  in  pre-  and  post- state  Israel.  In  1977  a  newly  man- 
dated regime  was  ushered  in  under  Prime  Minister  Menachem 
Begin,  who  led  the  right -of- center  Likud  Bloc  and  who  differed 
sharply  with  the  Labor  Party  over  political  philosophy  and  both 
domestic  and  foreign  policy.  Likud  was  reconfirmed  in  power  by 
the  1981  elections,  but  it  suffered  an  almost  irreparable  blow  with 
Begin 's  resignation  in  September  1983,  which  followed  a  series  of 
failed  policies  concerning  the  1982  invasion  of  Lebanon  and  the 
domestic  economy.  The  less  charismatic  and  more  cautious  Yitzhak 
Shamir  succeeded  Begin.  Under  the  terms  of  the  National  Unity 
Government,  established  in  September  1984,  the  leader  of  the  Labor 
Party,  Shimon  Peres,  was  entrusted  with  the  formation  of  a  govern- 
ment with  himself  as  prime  minister,  on  the  written  understand- 
ing that  he  would  relinquish  the  prime  ministership  in  two  years' 
time — halfway  through  the  parliamentary  term — to  his  designated 
"vice  prime  minister"  (or  vice  premier)  Shamir.  The  next  elec- 
tions to  the  Knesset  (parliament — see  Glossary)  were  held  in 
November  1988;  by  reproducing  the  same  inconclusive  electoral 
results  as  in  1984,  they  led  to  the  formation  of  a  second  Likud- 
and-Labor-led  National  Unity  Government,  except  that  this  time 
Labor  joined  as  a  junior  partner.  Following  a  period  of  protracted 
coalition  bargaining,  Shamir  was  reinstated  as  prime  minister,  with 
Peres  moving  from  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  to  the  Minis- 
try of  Finance.  Moshe  Arens,  a  former  Likud  minister  of  defense 
and  a  Shamir  ally,  was  appointed  minister  of  foreign  affairs,  and 
Labor's  Yitzhak  Rabin  became  minister  of  defense. 

From  1984  to  1988,  the  National  Unity  Government  acted  as 
a  joint  executive  committee  of  Labor  and  Likud.  Under  its  direc- 
tion, the  Israel  Defense  Forces  (IDF)  withdrew  to  an  Israeli- 
dominated  security  zone  in  southern  Lebanon;  Israel's  runaway 
inflation,  which  had  plagued  the  economy  under  previous  Likud 
rule,  was  curbed;  and  divisive  political  debates  on  major  national 
issues  were,  to  some  extent,  subdued  (see  The  Economic  Stabili- 
zation Program  of  July  1985,  ch.  3).  Nevertheless,  on  major  is- 
sues such  as  participation  in  United  States-sponsored  peace 
initiatives  to  resolve  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  the  exchange  of  "land 
for  peace,"  and  the  political  future  of  the  West  Bank  (see  Glossary) 


180 


Government  and  Politics 


and  Gaza  Strip  territories,  unity  between  Labor  and  Likud  was 
lacking.  The  unity  cabinet  became  deadlocked  as  each  partner  con- 
tinuously strove  to  advance  its  own  foreign  policy  agenda.  In  the 
latter  half  of  the  unity  government's  term,  from  1986  to  1988,  con- 
sensus on  domestic  issues  disintegrated  as  the  parties  prepared  for 
the  1988  Knesset  elections.  For  the  most  part,  this  breakdown  in 
consensus  continued  following  the  elections;  although  the  United 
States  began  a  dialogue  with  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organiza- 
tion (PLO),  the  government  continued  to  preserve  the  status  quo 
on  security  issues. 

The  Constitutional  Framework 

The  Declaration  of  the  Establishment  of  the  State  of  Israel, 
proclaimed  by  the  Provisional  Government  and  the  Provisional 
Council  of  State  on  May  14,  1948,  mentions  a  draft  constitution 
to  be  prepared  by  a  constitutional  committee  and  to  be  adopted 
by  an  elected  constituent  assembly  not  later  than  October  1 ,  1948. 
After  convening  on  February  14,  1949,  the  Constituent  Assem- 
bly, however,  instead  of  drafting  a  constitution,  on  February  16 
converted  itself  into  a  legislative  body  (the  first  Knesset)  and  enacted 
the  Transition  Law,  commonly  referred  to  as  the  "small  constitu- 
tion." The  Constituent  Assembly  could  not  agree  on  a  compre- 
hensive written  constitution,  primarily  for  fear  that  a  constitution 
would  unleash  a  divisive  conflict  between  religious  and  state  authori- 
ties, a  fear  that  continued  to  exist  in  late  1988.  The  ensuing 
parliamentary  debate,  from  February  1  through  June  13,  1950, 
between  those  favoring  a  written  constitution  and  those  opposing 
it  was  a  microcosm  of  the  conflict  between  state  and  religious  in- 
terests that  would  continue  to  agitate  Israeli  political  life. 

Proponents  argued  that  under  a  bill  of  rights  incorporated  into 
a  constitution  Israel  would  benefit  from  the  experience  of  other  na- 
tions that  had  adopted  written  safeguards  to  ensure  religious  free- 
dom, minority  rights,  equal  rights,  and  civil  liberties.  A  written 
constitution,  they  asserted,  would  also  safeguard  the  principle  of 
the  separation  of  powers  and,  in  a  period  of  rapid  immigration, 
referred  to  in  Israel  as  the  "ingathering  of  exiles,"  would  be  a  unify- 
ing factor,  unequivocally  establishing  the  supremacy  of  civil  law. 

Opponents  contended  that  the  domestic  and  external  circum- 
stances of  Israel  in  1949  were  not  auspicious  for  the  adoption  of 
a  constitution.  They  stressed  that  a  written  constitution  would  be 
politically  divisive  because  the  controversial  issue  of  the  bound- 
aries between  state  and  religion  would  inevitably  be  raised  in  for- 
mulating the  principles,  goals,  and  nature  of  the  state  as  codified 
in  a  constitution  (see  The  Role  of  Judaism,  ch.  2).  Prime  Minister 


181 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

David  Ben-Gurion,  the  leading  opponent  of  a  written  constitution, 
maintained  that  the  Proclamation  of  Independence,  however  great 
an  event,  was  merely  the  beginning  of  a  long  process  in  Israel's 
evolution  as  a  democratic  state  and  not  "the  redemption."  Perhaps 
most  significantly,  Ben-Gurion  and  Mapai  (Mifleget  Poalei  Eretz 
Yisrael,  Israel  Workers'  Party — see  Appendix  B),  the  Labor  Party's 
predecessor,  had  already  formed  an  alliance  with  Orthodox  reli- 
gious parties  by  entering  into  a  "historical  partnership"  with 
Mizrahi  (Spiritual  Center — see  Appendix  B)  in  1933.  As  part  of 
the  Mapai-Mizrahi  agreement  of  June  19,  1947,  they  obtained  unity 
among  the  various  groups  in  the  Yishuv  (the  prestate  Jewish  com- 
munity) by  promising  the  leaders  of  the  ultra-Orthodox  Agudat 
Israel  (Society  of  Israel — see  Appendix  B)  that  the  status  quo  on 
issues  involving  state  and  religion  would  be  maintained  in  the 
new  state.  Some  observers  felt  that  Ben-Gurion  and  other  Labor 
leaders  grossly  underestimated  the  long-term  consequences  of  delay- 
ing resolution  of  the  role  of  religion  in  a  modern  Jewish  state.  In 
later  years,  the  Orthodox-dominated  Ministry  of  Religious  Affairs, 
Ministry  of  Interior,  rabbinate,  rabbinic  courts,  and  municipal  re- 
ligious councils  gained  a  virtual  monopoly  in  patronage  and 
resources  over  Israel's  organized  Jewish  religious  institutions  to 
the  detriment  of  the  more  moderate  Conservative  and  Reform 
movements  of  Judaism.  As  a  consequence  of  the  resurgence  of  right- 
wing  fundamentalist  religious  movements,  the  influence  of  secu- 
lar elements  in  Israeli  society,  especially  of  Labor  and  its  allies, 
was  ultimately  diminished. 

The  Israeli  solution  to  the  lack  of  a  constitution  has  been  a 
"building-block"  method.  In  June  1950,  the  Knesset  passed  a  com- 
promise resolution,  known  as  the  "Harari  decision"  (named  after 
Knesset  member  Izhar  Harari),  approving  a  constitution  in  prin- 
ciple but  postponing  its  enactment  until  a  future  date.  The  resolu- 
tion stated  that  the  constitution  would  be  evolved  "chapter  by 
chapter  in  such  a  way  that  each  chapter  will  by  itself  constitute  a 
fundamental  law."  It  stipulated:  "The  chapters  will  be  submitted 
to  the  Knesset  to  the  extent  to  which  the  Committee  [for  Consti- 
tution, Law,  and  Justice  of  the  Knesset]  completes  its  work,  and 
the  chapters  will  be  incorporated  in  the  constitution  of  the  State." 
By  1988  nine  Basic  Laws  had  been  enacted  to  deal  with  the 
Knesset  (1958),  Israeli  Lands  (1960),  the  Presidency  (1964),  the 
Government  (1968),  the  State  Economy  (1975),  the  Army  (1976), 
Jerusalem  (1980),  the  Judiciary  (1984),  and  Elections  (1988).  These 
Basic  Laws,  transcending  regular  legislation,  may  be  amended  or 
changed  only  by  a  special  majority;  in  most  cases  the  majority 
required  is  at  least  80  members  of  the  120-member  Knesset. 


182 


Government  and  Politics 


Moreover,  to  ensure  the  country's  stability,  the  Basic  Laws  may 
not  be  amended,  suspended,  or  repealed  by  emergency  legislation. 

Apart  from  the  nine  Basic  Laws,  as  of  the  end  of  1988  there  were 
a  number  of  ordinary  laws  that  legitimized  the  structure,  functions, 
and  actions  of  state  institutions.  These  ordinary  statutes  were  in- 
tended eventually  to  take  the  form  of  Basic  Laws,  presumably  with 
appropriate  revisions  to  account  for  changing  needs  and  circum- 
stances. Among  these  laws  were  the  Law  of  Return  (1950),  Na- 
tionality Law  (1952),  the  Judges  Law  (1953),  the  State  Education 
Law  (1953),  the  Courts  Law  (1957),  the  State  Comptroller  Law 
(1958),  and  the  Knesset  Elections  Law  (1969).  Legislation  such  as 
the  Law  of  Return,  the  Nationality  Law,  and  the  State  Education 
Law  sought  to  resolve  fundamental  secular-religious  disagreements. 
In  the  judgment  of  most  Israeli  observers,  however,  the  enactment 
of  such  laws  did  not  resolve  fundamental  controversies  because 
Orthodox  figures  later  sought  to  overturn  them.  For  example,  in 
1988  the  government  was  engaged  in  a  legislative  struggle  involv- 
ing renewed  attempts  by  Orthodox  religious  parties  to  amend  the 
1950  Law  of  Return,  the  country's  basic  immigration  law,  by  grant- 
ing Orthodox  religious  authorities  exclusive  power  to  decide  who 
is  Jewish  and  to  exclude  people  who  had  converted  to  Judaism 
through  the  Reform  or  Conservative  movements.  On  June  14, 
1988,  the  Knesset  defeated  two  such  bills  by  votes  of  sixty  to  fifty- 
three  and  sixty  to  fifty-one. 

The  question  of  human  rights  and  civil  liberties  has  been  an  im- 
portant concern  of  all  Israeli  governments.  It  is  reflected,  for  in- 
stance, in  the  Declaration  of  the  Establishment  of  the  State  of  Israel, 
sometimes  considered  analogous  to  the  United  States  Declaration 
of  Independence.  The  Israeli  declaration  reads  in  part:  "The  State 
of  Israel  will  .  .  .  foster  the  development  of  the  country  for  the 
benefit  of  all  its  inhabitants;  it  will  be  based  on  freedom,  justice, 
and  peace  as  envisaged  by  the  prophets  of  Israel;  it  will  ensure  com- 
plete equality  of  social  and  political  rights  to  all  its  inhabitants 
irrespective  of  religion,  race  or  sex;  it  will  guarantee  freedom  of 
religion,  conscience,  language,  education  and  culture."  The  decla- 
ration contains  sections  that  were  intended  to  grant  constitutional 
authority  for  the  establishment  and  operation  of  state  organs  dur- 
ing the  immediate  postindependence  years.  Apart  from  that  legal 
significance,  however,  the  declaration  lacks  the  status  of  a  formal 
constitution  against  which  the  legality  of  other  enactments  can  be 
tested.  This  is  especially  true  regarding  the  issue  of  fundamental 
civil  rights. 

In  the  absence  of  an  expressed  bill  of  rights,  Israeli  governments 
have  relied  on  the  court  system  to  safeguard  civil  rights  and  liberties. 


183 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Israeli  citizens  have  enjoyed  a  large  measure  of  civil  rights  as  a 
result  of  high  standards  of  fairness  in  the  administration  of  justice 
in  Israel  proper.  Nonetheless,  certain  infringements  have  been 
caused  by  the  dictates  of  internal  security  (see  Israeli  Arabs,  Arab 
Land,  and  Arab  Refugees,  ch.  1).  According  to  a  United  States 
Department  of  State  report  on  human  rights  practices  in  Israel 
released  in  February  1988,  "Israel  is  a  parliamentary  democracy 
which  guarantees  by  law  and  respects  in  practice  the  civil,  politi- 
cal, and  religious  rights  of  its  citizens  .  .  .  As  in  the  past,  the  most 
significant  human  rights  problems  for  Israel  in  1987  derived  from 
the  strained  relations  between  the  Israeli  authorities  and  some 
Israelis  on  the  one  hand  and  the  Arab  inhabitants  of  the  occupied 
territories  on  the  other  hand." 

A  number  of  attempts  have  been  made  to  introduce  proposals 
for  a  detailed  constitution.  The  latest  occurred  in  August  1987, 
when  the  Public  Council  for  a  Constitution  for  Israel,  a  group  of 
Tel  Aviv  University  professors  led  by  Uriel  Reichman,  dean  of 
its  faculty  of  law,  launched  a  campaign  to  enact  a  constitution.  The 
group  argued  that  the  existing  Basic  Laws  were  not  tantamount 
to  a  constitution  because  such  topics  as  judicial  review  and  a  bill 
of  rights  were  not  covered  and  because  most  of  the  Basic  Laws  were 
regular  laws  that  could  be  amended  by  a  simple  majority  vote  of 
the  Knesset.  A  written  constitution,  in  contrast,  would  spell  out 
the  relationship  among  the  different  branches  of  government  and 
establish  a  type  of  secularized  bill  of  rights  between  the  individual 
and  the  state.  The  group  advocated  three  necessary  reform  mea- 
sures as  essential  for  a  democratic  and  constitutional  state:  the  direct 
election  of  the  prime  minister;  the  safeguarding  of  all  Basic  Laws 
so  that  they  could  be  rescinded  only  by  a  two-thirds  or  three-fifths 
Knesset  majority;  and  the  establishment  of  a  well-defined  system 
of  judicial  review.  While  the  proposal  had  little  chance  of  Knesset 
passage,  it  aroused  renewed  interest  in  the  reform  of  the  Israeli 
electoral,  legislative,  and  judicial  systems  (see  Prospects  for  Elec- 
toral Reform,  this  ch.). 

Government 
The  President 

The  1964  Basic  Law  provides  that  the  president  is  the  titular 
head  of  state  (see  fig.  10).  The  president  is  elected  through  secret 
balloting  by  an  absolute  majority  of  the  Knesset  on  the  first  two 
ballots,  but  thereafter  by  a  plurality,  for  a  term  of  five  years.  Israeli 
presidents  may  not  serve  more  than  two  consecutive  terms,  and 
any  resident  of  Israel  is  eligible  to  be  a  presidential  candidate.  The 


184 


Government  and  Politics 


office  falls  vacant  upon  resignation  or  upon  the  decision  of  three- 
quarters  of  the  Knesset  to  depose  the  president  on  grounds  of  mis- 
conduct or  incapacity.  Presidential  tenure  is  not  keyed  to  that  of 
the  Knesset  in  order  to  assure  continuity  in  government  and  the 
nonpartisan  character  of  the  office.  There  is  no  vice  president  in 
the  Israeli  governmental  system.  When  the  president  is  temporarily 
incapacitated  or  the  office  falls  vacant,  the  speaker  of  the  Knesset 
may  exercise  presidential  functions. 

Presidential  powers  are  usually  exercised  based  on  the  recom- 
mendation of  appropriate  government  ministers.  The  president 
signs  treaties  ratified  by  the  Knesset  and  laws  enacted  by  the  legis- 
lature except  those  relating  to  presidential  powers.  The  president, 
who  has  no  veto  power  over  legislation,  appoints  diplomatic 
representatives,  receives  foreign  envoys  accredited  to  Israel,  and 
appoints  the  state  comptroller,  judges  for  civil  and  religious  courts, 
and  the  governor  of  the  Bank  of  Israel. 

Although  the  president's  role  is  nonpolitical,  Israeli  heads  of  state 
perform  important  moral,  ceremonial,  and  educational  functions. 
They  also  play  a  part  in  the  formation  of  a  coalition  cabinet,  or 
"a  government"  as  the  Israelis  call  it.  They  are  required  to  con- 
sult leaders  of  all  political  parties  in  the  Knesset  and  to  designate 
a  member  of  the  legislature  to  organize  a  cabinet.  If  the  member 
so  appointed  fails,  other  political  parties  commanding  a  plurality 
in  the  Knesset  may  submit  their  own  nominee.  The  figure  called 
upon  to  form  a  cabinet  is  invariably  the  leader  of  the  most  influential 
political  party  or  bloc  in  the  Knesset. 

As  of  1988,  all  Israeli  presidents  have  been  members  of,  or  as- 
sociated with,  the  Labor  Party  and  its  predecessors,  and  all  have 
been  considered  politically  moderate.  These  tendencies  were  es- 
pecially significant  in  the  April  1978  election  of  Labor's  Yitzhak 
Navon,  following  the  inability  of  the  governing  Likud  coalition  to 
elect  its  candidate  to  the  presidency.  Israeli  observers  believed  that, 
in  counterbalance  to  Prime  Minister  Begin 's  polarizing  leadership, 
Navon,  the  country's  first  president  of  Sephardi  (see  Glossary)  ori- 
gin, provided  Israel  with  unifying  symbolic  leadership  at  a  time 
of  great  political  controversy  and  upheaval.  In  1983  Navon  decided 
to  reenter  Labor  politics  after  five  years  of  nonpartisan  service  as 
president,  and  Chaim  Herzog  (previously  head  of  military  intelli- 
gence and  ambassador  to  the  United  Nations)  succeeded  him  as 
Israel's  sixth  president. 

The  Cabinet 

The  separation  of  powers  between  the  executive  and  legislative 
branches  in  the  Israeli  political  system  generally  follows  the  British 


185 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


DO 


Oll 
xO 


dOj 

°£lu 


<1 

°o 
o 


<o 

LU  cl 

'-o 


2< 

i£ 

X  LU 
LU  X 

^° 

Olu 


m 

coO 

o 


o 

Ox 

FINAN 

FOREI 
AFFAI 

^  LU  3 

o 


ALLY 

:ted 

NCILS 

ICIPAL  | 

CAL 

IONAL  | 

z 

g 

EG 

-Jluq 

2 

X 

XJO  Q 


*f«il 

rotate 
*>  o>  o  o  c 


In 


©  to 

c|„l 
OS  o  p 

tu<00 


!! 

1  I 


0) 


.2  £ 


■s     =  ~> 

o  jg  o  "5  || 
■JS  ^; 


&  oi 


ENSE 

1  w 

O  LU 
LUX 

DEF 

OCCI 
TERRI 

Lu^lu 
<lu" 
coluO 


2  £  5 

(DP  8 

r  &z 
«  3  0? 

TJ  JO  13 
!=  w  = 
=1  c  3 


co  X  eg 

c  t3  'c 

III 

DOT) 

<  o  < 

y~  <M  CO 


2  IE 

£  £.E 
<»  2tr 
c  >-o 

HI 
■i  1? 

X5  or 

<  <.£ 


186 


Government  and  Politics 


pattern.  The  cabinet  is  the  top  executive  policy-making  body  and 
the  center  of  political  power  in  the  nation.  It  consists  of  the  prime 
minister  and  an  unspecified  number  of  ministers.  The  head  of 
government  must  be  a  Knesset  member,  but  this  is  not  a  require- 
ment for  ministers.  In  practice,  most  ministers  have  been  Knesset 
members;  when  non-Knesset  members  are  considered  for  cabinet 
posts,  their  selection  is  subject  to  Knesset  approval.  A  deputy  prime 
minister  and  deputy  ministers  may  be  appointed  from  among  the 
membership  of  the  Knesset,  usually  as  a  result  of  coalition  bar- 
gaining, but  in  this  instance  only  the  deputy  prime  minister  is  con- 
sidered a  regular  cabinet  member.  As  stated  above,  in  September 
1984,  the  National  Unity  Government  established  the  position  of 
vice  prime  minister,  or  vice  premier.  The  vice  prime  minister,  who 
was  the  leader  of  one  of  the  two  major  parties  in  the  unity  coali- 
tion, was  considered  the  second  leading  cabinet  minister. 

The  cabinet  takes  office  upon  confirmation  by  the  Knesset,  to 
which  it  is  collectively  responsible  for  all  its  acts.  To  obtain  this 
consent,  the  prime  minister-designate  must  submit  a  list  of  cabi- 
net members  along  with  a  detailed  statement  of  basic  principles 
and  policies  of  his  or  her  government.  The  cabinet  can  be  dissolved 
if  it  resigns  en  masse,  if  the  Knesset  passes  a  motion  of  censure 
against  it,  or  if  the  prime  minister  resigns  or  dies.  The  prime 
minister's  resignation  invalidates  the  cabinet,  but  resignations  of 
individual  ministers  do  not  have  this  effect.  Since  independence 
all  cabinets  have  been  coalitions  of  parties,  each  coalition  having 
been  formed  to  achieve  the  required  total  of  sixty-one  or  more  Knes- 
set seats.  Although  often  based  on  political  expediency,  coalition 
formation  is  also  concerned  with  ideological  and  issue  compatibil- 
ity among  the  participating  groups.  Cabinet  posts  are  divided 
among  coalition  partners  through  behind-the-scenes  bargaining  and 
in  proportion  to  the  parliamentary  strength  of  the  parties  involved, 
usually  at  the  ratio  of  one  cabinet  portfolio  for  every  three  or  four 
Knesset  seats.  This  formula  may  be  dispensed  with,  however,  in 
times  of  national  emergency  or  electoral  and  political  stalemate. 
The  first  precedent  in  this  direction  occurred  after  the  June  1967 
War  when  a  "national  unity  government"  was  formed  by  co-opting 
three  opposition  party  leaders  as  cabinet  ministers.  This  move, 
which  was  achieved  without  the  standard  cabinet  formation  proce- 
dure, was  designed  to  demonstrate  internal  solidarity  in  the  face 
of  an  external  threat. 

The  members  of  coalition  governments  are  obligated  to  fulfill 
their  commitments  to  the  coalition  at  the  time  of  seeking  a  vote 
of  confidence  from  the  Knesset.  A  cabinet  member  may  be  dis- 
missed for  failing  to  support  the  government  on  any  matter  that 


187 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

is  included  in  the  original  coalition  pact  except  where  the  minister's 
dissenting  vote  in  the  Knesset  for  reasons  of  "conscience"  is  spe- 
cifically approved  in  advance  by  the  minister's  party.  This  obliga- 
tion also  applies  in  the  formation  and  maintenance  of  a  national 
unity  government,  with  the  exception  of  times  of  emergency  when 
opposition  elements  co-opted  into  the  cabinet  may  disagree  with 
the  mainstream  of  the  coalition  on  any  matters  other  than  those 
they  have  pledged  to  support.  At  a  minimum,  coalition  members 
must  vote  with  the  government  on  issues  of  national  defense,  for- 
eign policy,  the  budget,  and  motions  of  censure.  Failure  to  do  so 
constitutes  grounds  for  their  expulsion;  ministers  may  simply  with- 
draw from  the  government  in  protest  if  they  cannot  reconcile  them- 
selves to  the  mainstream. 

As  a  rule,  the  cabinet  meets  at  least  once  a  week  on  Sunday  morn- 
ing or  whenever  extraordinary  reasons  warrant.  Cabinet  deliber- 
ations are  confidential;  this  is  especially  true  when  the  body  meets 
as  a  session  of  the  ministerial  Committee  for  Security  Affairs. 

The  cabinet  conducts  much  of  its  work  through  four  standing 
committees  dealing  with  economic  affairs,  legislation,  foreign  af- 
fairs and  security,  and  home  affairs  and  services.  The  committees 
meet  once  a  week  and  may  set  up  special  ad  hoc  committees  of 
inquiry  to  scrutinize  issues  affecting  coalition  unity  or  other  urgent 
questions.  A  cabinet  member  may  be  assigned  to  one  or  more  com- 
mittees. Committee  decisions  are  final  unless  challenged  in  plen- 
ary cabinet  sessions. 

As  compensation  for  serving  in  the  cabinet,  Knesset  members' 
salaries  and  accompanying  benefits  are  supplemented  by  the  govern- 
ment. Ministers  are  given  a  car  and  a  driver  and  offices  in  Tel 
Aviv  and  Jerusalem.  The  government  provides  them  with  an  offi- 
cial residence  in  Jerusalem  and  covers  personal  expenses  such  as 
travel,  hotels,  and  food  on  official  business.  They  also  receive  com- 
prehensive medical  insurance  and  other  allowances. 

Until  November  1988,  the  unity  cabinet  included,  in  addition 
to  Prime  Minister  Shamir,  nineteen  ministers  with  portfolio,  in- 
cluding the  vice-prime  minister  and  two  deputy  prime  ministers. 
The  jurisdictions  of  their  portfolios  were  agriculture,  communica- 
tions, defense,  economics  and  planning,  education  and  culture, 
energy  and  infrastructure,  finance,  foreign  affairs,  health,  hous- 
ing and  construction,  immigration  and  absorption,  industry  and 
trade,  interior,  justice  and  tourism  (both  ministries  were  headed 
by  one  minister),  labor  and  social  affairs,  police,  religious  affairs, 
science  and  development,  and  transportation.  In  addition,  there 
were  six  ministers  without  portfolio.  Upon  approval  of  the  second 
unity  government  by  the  Knesset  in  December  1988,  the  new 


188 


Government  and  Politics 


cabinet  consisted  of  twenty-eight  ministers,  the  largest  in  the  coun- 
try's history.  Its  size  was  expanded  to  accommodate  political  de- 
mands by  the  coalition  partners. 

Interministerial  coordination  is  the  responsibility  of  the  four 
standing  cabinet  committees  and  the  Office  of  the  Prime  Minister, 
especially  the  Government  Secretariat,  which  is  located  in  that 
office.  Headed  by  the  secretary  to  the  government  (the  position 
is  also  known  as  government  secretary  or  cabinet  secretary),  the 
secretariat  prepares  the  agenda  for  meetings  of  the  cabinet  and  cabi- 
net committees,  maintains  their  records,  coordinates  the  work  of 
ministries,  and  informs  the  public  of  government  decisions  and 
policies. 

Also  in  the  Office  of  the  Prime  Minister  are  the  Prime  Minister's 
Bureau,  which  deals  with  confidential  matters  concerning  the  chief 
executive,  and  a  staff  of  advisers  on  political  and  legal  issues,  na- 
tional security,  terrorism  and  counterterrorism,  the  media,  peti- 
tions and  complaints,  Arab  affairs,  and  welfare  affairs.  The  most 
influential  advisory  personnel  carry  the  title  of  "director  general 
and  political  adviser"  to  the  prime  minister.  Other  constituent  units 
of  the  office  include  the  State  Archives  and  Library,  Government 
Names  Committee,  Government  Press  Office,  National  Council 
for  Research  and  Development,  Technological  and  Scientific  In- 
formation Center,  Atomic  Energy  Commission,  Institute  for  Bio- 
logical Research,  National  Parks  Authority,  and  Central  Bureau 
of  Statistics. 

The  Civil  Service 

As  of  late  1988,  government  employees  were  recruited  through 
a  merit  system,  with  appointment,  promotion,  transfer,  termina- 
tion, training,  discipline,  and  conditions  of  employment  regulat- 
ed by  law.  They  were  prohibited,  especially  in  the  senior  grades, 
from  engaging  in  partisan  politics  by  the  Civil  Service  (Restric- 
tion of  Party  Activities  and  Fund-Raising)  Law  of  1959.  As  of  1988, 
there  were  approximately  100,000  government  employees,  exclud- 
ing the  Israel  Police,  teachers  (who  were  technically  municipal  em- 
ployees), civilian  workers  in  the  defense  establishment,  and 
employees  of  the  State  Employment  Service  and  the  autonomous 
Israel  Broadcasting  Authority. 

The  civil  service  was  headed  by  a  commissioner  appointed  by 
the  cabinet  and  directly  responsible  to  the  minister  of  finance.  The 
commissioner,  who  like  other  senior  government  officials  carried 
the  rank  of  director  general,  had  broad  responsibility  for  the  ex- 
amination, recruitment,  appointment,  training,  and  discipline  of 
civil  service  personnel.  In  practice,  however,  except  in  the  senior 


189 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

grades,  these  matters  were  left  to  the  discretion  of  the  various  minis- 
tries. The  commissioner  was  also  chairman  of  the  Civil  Service 
Board,  consisting  of  three  directors  general  representing  govern- 
ment ministries  and  three  members  representing  the  public.  The 
purpose  of  the  board  was  to  administer  the  civil  service  pension 
system.  In  addition,  the  office  of  the  commissioner  directed  the 
operation  of  the  Central  School  of  Administration  in  Jerusalem  and 
furnished  administrative  services  to  the  Civil  Service  Disciplinary 
Court.  Civil  servants  were  automatically  members  of  the  Civil  Ser- 
vants' Union — a  practice  that  has  been  in  effect  since  1949  when 
the  union  became  part  of  the  General  Federation  of  Laborers  in 
the  Land  of  Israel  (HaHistadrut  HaKlalit  shel  HaOvdim  B'Eretz 
Yisrael,  known  as  Histadrut — literally,  organization).  Any  basic 
changes  in  the  conditions  of  government  employment  must  have 
the  concurrence  of  the  union.  The  mandatory  retirement  age  for 
civil  service  workers  was  sixty-five,  and  pensions  ranged  from  20 
to  70  percent  of  terminal  salary,  depending  on  length  of  service. 

The  Knesset 

The  Knesset  is  a  unicameral  parliament  and  the  supreme  author- 
ity of  the  state.  Its  120  members  are  elected  by  universal  suffrage 
for  a  four-year  term  under  a  system  of  proportional  representa- 
tion. Basic  Law:  the  Knesset  provides  for  "general  countryside, 
direct,  equal,  secret,  and  proportional"  elections.  This  provision 
means  that  if,  for  example,  in  a  national  election  a  given  party  list 
received  approximately  36,000  votes,  it  would  be  entitled  to  two 
seats  in  the  Knesset.  As  a  result,  the  top  two  names  on  the  party's 
list  would  obtain  Knesset  seats.  The  legislative  authority  of  the 
Knesset  is  unlimited,  and  legislative  enactments  cannot  be  vetoed 
by  either  the  president  or  the  prime  minister  nor  can  such  enact- 
ments be  nullified  by  the  Supreme  Court.  The  regular  four-year 
term  of  the  Knesset  can  be  terminated  only  by  the  Knesset,  which 
can  then  call  for  a  new  general  election  before  its  term  expires. 

The  Knesset  also  has  broad  power  of  direction  and  supervision 
over  government  operations.  It  approves  budgets,  monitors  govern- 
ment performance  by  questioning  cabinet  ministers,  provides  a  pub- 
lic forum  for  debate  of  important  issues,  conducts  wide-ranging 
legislative  inquiries,  and  can  topple  the  cabinet  through  a  vote  of 
no  confidence  that  takes  precedence  over  all  other  parliamentary 
business.  The  Knesset  works  through  eleven  permanent  legisla- 
tive committees,  including  the  House  Committee,  which  handles 
parliamentary  rules  and  procedures,  and  the  Law  and  Justice  Com- 
mittee, usually  referred  to  as  "Law."  The  jurisdictions  of  the  re- 
maining committees  are  the  constitution,  finance,  foreign  affairs 


190 


The  Knesset,  or  Parliament,  of  Israel,  Jerusalem 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Israel,  Washington 

and  security,  immigration  and  absorption,  economics,  education 
and  culture,  internal  affairs  and  environment,  labor  and  welfare, 
and  state  control.  Committee  assignments  are  made  by  the  Arrange- 
ments Committee,  a  committee  consisting  of  representatives  of  the 
various  parties  established  at  the  beginning  of  each  Knesset  ses- 
sion, enabling  each  party  to  determine  for  itself  where  it  wants  its 
stronger  delegates  placed.  Committee  assignments  are  for  the  dura- 
tion of  the  Knesset's  tenure.  Committee  chairmen  are  formally 
elected  at  the  first  meeting  of  each  respective  committee  upon  the 
nomination  of  the  House  Committee.  As  a  rule,  however,  the  chair- 
manship of  important  committees  is  reserved  for  members  of  the 
ruling  coalition.  If  a  member  resigns  from  his  or  her  party,  the 
place  on  the  committee  reverts  to  the  party,  even  if  the  member 
remains  in  the  Knesset. 

Among  the  first  tasks  of  a  new  Knesset  is  to  assign  members  to 
the  various  standing  committees  and  to  elect  a  speaker,  his  or  her 
deputies,  and  the  chairmen  of  committees.  The  speaker  is  assisted 
by  a  presidium  of  several  deputies  chosen  by  the  Knesset  from  the 
major  parties.  At  a  minimum,  the  Knesset  is  required  to  hold  two 
sessions  a  year  and  to  sit  not  fewer  than  eight  months  during  the 
two  sessions.  The  Knesset  meets  weekly  to  consider  items  on  its 
agenda,  but  not  on  Fridays,  Saturdays,  and  Sundays  in  deference 
to  its  Muslim,  Jewish,  and  Christian  members.  Agendas  are  set 


191 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


by  the  speaker  to  permit  the  questioning  of  ministers  and  the  con- 
sideration of  proposals  from  the  government  or  motions  from  mem- 
bers. Time  allocations  to  individual  members  and  parties  are  made 
in  advance  by  the  speaker  so  as  to  preclude  filibusters  or  cloture. 
Other  than  national  emergencies,  budgetary  issues  have  usually 
been  the  most  important  items  dealt  with  by  the  Knesset  at  any 
of  its  session. 

Following  the  British  pattern,  legislation  is  generally  introduced 
by  the  cabinet;  to  a  lesser  extent  it  is  initiated  by  various  Knesset 
committees;  and  in  limited  cases,  private  bills  are  initiated  by  in- 
dividual Knesset  members.  Bills  are  drafted  by  the  ministries  con- 
cerned in  consultation  with  the  Ministry  of  Justice.  By  majority 
vote  of  the  cabinet,  draft  bills  are  sent  to  the  speaker  of  the  Knesset 
for  legislative  action.  Proposed  bills  are  considered  by  appropriate 
committees  and  go  through  three  readings  before  being  voted  on 
by  the  Knesset  after  the  third  reading.  Any  number  of  Knesset 
members  present  constitutes  a  quorum,  and  a  simple  majority  of 
those  present  is  required  for  passage.  Exceptions  to  this  rule  apply 
in  the  election  or  removal  of  the  president  of  the  state,  removal 
of  the  state  comptroller,  changes  to  the  system  of  proportional  elec- 
tions, and  changes  to  or  repeal  of  Basic  Laws;  in  these  instances, 
required  majorities  are  specified  by  law. 

Apart  from  the  Knesset,  which  is  the  principal  source  of  legisla- 
tion, such  public  institutions  as  ministries,  local  authorities,  and 
independent  bodies  can  frame  rules  and  regulations  or  subsidiary 
legislation  on  a  wide  range  of  matters.  Subsidiary  legislation  has 
the  effect  of  law,  but  it  can  be  declared  invalid  by  the  courts  when 
it  contravenes  any  enactment  of  the  Knesset. 

Knesset  members  are  granted  extensive  legal  immunity  and 
privileges.  Their  special  legal  status,  which  many  observers  regard 
as  excessive,  ranges  from  parliamentary  immunity  to  protection 
from  criminal  proceedings  for  the  entire  period  of  Knesset  mem- 
bership. Immunity  extends  to  acts  committed  before  becoming  a 
Knesset  member,  although  such  immunity  can  be  removed  by  the 
Knesset  upon  the  recommendation  of  the  House  Committee. 
Knesset  members  are  also  exempt  from  compulsory  military  ser- 
vice. The  official  language  of  the  Knesset  is  Hebrew,  but  Arab 
members  may  address  the  legislature  in  Arabic,  with  simultane- 
ous translation  provided. 

The  State  Comptroller 

The  power  of  the  Knesset  to  supervise  and  review  government 
policies  and  operations  is  exercised  mainly  through  the  state  comp- 
troller, also  known  as  the  ombudsman  or  ombudswoman.  The 


192 


Government  and  Politics 


state  comptroller  is  appointed  by  the  president  upon  the  recom- 
mendation of  the  House  Committee  of  the  Knesset  for  a  renew- 
able term  of  five  years.  The  incumbent  is  completely  independent 
of  the  government  and  is  responsible  to  the  Knesset  alone  (the  state 
controller's  budget  is  submitted  directly  to  the  Knesset's  Finance 
Committee  and  is  exempt  from  prior  consideration  by  the  Minis- 
try of  Finance).  The  state  comptroller  can  be  relieved  only  by  the 
Knesset  or  by  resignation  or  demise.  During  the  incumbent's  term 
of  office,  he  or  she  may  not  be  a  member  of  the  Knesset  or  other- 
wise engage  in  politics  and  is  prohibited  from  any  public  or  pri- 
vate activity  that  could  create  a  conflict  of  interest  with  the 
independent  performance  of  the  duties  of  the  office.  The  state  comp- 
troller, although  lacking  in  authority  to  enforce  compliance,  has 
broad  investigative  powers  and  employs  hundreds  of  staff  mem- 
bers, including  accountants,  lawyers,  and  other  relevant  profes- 
sionals. Since  1949,  when  the  state  comptrollership  was  created, 
three  individuals  have  held  the  office,  with  each  having  served  for 
an  extended  period. 

The  principal  function  of  the  state  comptroller  is  to  check  on 
the  legality,  regularity,  efficiency,  economy,  and  ethical  conduct 
of  public  institutions.  The  checks  are  performed  by  continuous  and 
spot  inspections  of  the  financial  accounts  and  activities  of  all  minis- 
tries, the  armed  forces  and  security  services,  local  government 
bodies,  and  any  corporations,  enterprises,  or  organizations  subsi- 
dized or  managed  by  the  state  in  any  form. 

The  state  comptroller  acts  in  conjunction  with  the  Finance  Com- 
mittee of  the  Knesset  and  reports  to  it  whenever  necessary.  The 
state  comptroller  may  recommend  that  the  Finance  Committee  ap- 
point a  special  commission  of  inquiry,  but  having  no  statutory 
authority  of  its  own  it  relies  on  the  Knesset  to  impose  sanctions 
on  errant  bodies.  The  state  comptroller's  office  is  divided  into  five 
major  inspection  units.  The  first  four  are  concerned  with  minis- 
tries, defense  services,  local  authorities,  and  corporations;  the  fifth 
deals  with  public  complaints  concerning  government  bodies. 

The  Judicial  System 

The  Judiciary  Law  of  1984  formalized  the  judicial  structure  con- 
sisting of  three  main  types  of  courts:  civil,  religious,  and  military. 
There  also  are  special  courts  for  labor,  insurance,  traffic,  municipal, 
juvenile,  and  other  disputes.  Each  type  of  court  is  administrative- 
ly responsible  to  a  different  ministry.  Civilian  courts  come  under 
the  Ministry  of  Justice;  religious  courts  fall  under  the  Ministry  of 
Religious  Affairs,  and  military  courts  come  under  the  Ministry  of 
Defense  (see  The  Role  of  Judaism,  ch.  2;  Discipline  and  Military 


193 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Justice,  ch.  5).  In  the  administration  of  justice,  however,  all  courts 
are  independent  and  Israelis  generally  concede  their  fairness. 

Legal  codes  and  judicial  procedures  derive  from  various  sources. 
Laws  applicable  to  Israeli  Jews  in  matters  of  personal  status  are 
generally  based  on  the  Torah  (see  Glossary)  and  the  halakah  (see 
Glossary).  Influences  traceable  to  the  British  Mandate  period  in- 
clude parts  of  Ottoman  legal  codes,  influenced  by  the  Quran,  Arab 
tribal  customary  laws,  and  the  Napoleonic  Code.  In  general,  Brit- 
ish law  has  provided  the  main  base  on  which  Israel  has  built  its 
court  procedure,  criminal  law,  and  civil  code,  whereas  American 
legal  practice  has  strongly  influenced  Israeli  law  regarding  civil 
rights. 

The  status  of  the  judiciary  and  the  definition  and  authority  of 
the  court  structure  are  spelled  out  in  the  Judges  Law  of  1953,  the 
Courts  Laws  of  1957,  the  Rabbinical  Courts  Jurisdiction  (Mar- 
riage and  Divorce)  Law  of  1953,  the  Dayanim  Law  of  1955  (sing., 
dayan,  rabbinical  court  judge),  the  Qadis  Law  of  1961  (sing.,  qadi, 
Muslim  religious  judge),  the  Druze  Religious  Courts  Law  of  1962 
{qadi  madhab,  Druze  religious  judge),  the  Jurisdiction  in  Matters 
of  Dissolution  of  Marriages  (Special  Cases)  Law  of  1969,  and  the 
Judiciary  Law  of  1984.  The  principal  representative  of  the  state 
in  the  enforcement  of  both  criminal  and  civil  law  is  the  attorney 
general,  who  is  responsible  to  the  minister  of  justice.  As  was  the 
case  during  the  British  Mandate,  courts  do  not  use  the  jury  sys- 
tem; all  questions  of  fact  and  law  are  determined  by  the  judge  or 
judges  of  the  court  concerned,  and  the  system  upholds  the  princi- 
ple of  innocence  until  proven  guilty. 

The  president,  on  the  recommendation  of  a  nominating  com- 
mittee chaired  by  the  minister  of  justice,  appoints  civil  courts  judges. 
The  nominating  committee  consists  of  the  president  of  the  Supreme 
Court,  two  other  justices  of  the  highest  court,  two  members  of  the 
Knesset,  one  cabinet  member  in  addition  to  the  minister  of  justice, 
and  two  practicing  lawyers  who  are  members  of  the  Israel  Bar 
Association,  a  body  established  in  1961  charged  with  certifying  law- 
yers for  legal  practice.  The  independence  of  committee  members 
is  safeguarded  in  part  by  a  procedure  whereby,  except  for  the 
minister  of  justice  and  the  president  of  the  Supreme  Court,  they 
are  elected  through  secret  ballot  by  the  members  of  their  respec- 
tive institutions.  Whereas  the  composition  of  the  committee  is  meant 
to  depoliticize  the  nominations  process,  political  considerations 
require  the  inclusion  of  at  least  one  religious  justice  on  the  Supreme 
Court,  as  well  as  the  representation  on  the  nominating  committee 
of  Sephardim  and  women. 


194 


Government  and  Politics 


The  president  of  the  state,  on  the  recommendation  of  nominat- 
ing committees,  also  appoints  judges  of  religious  courts,  except 
Christian  courts.  Nominating  committees,  chaired  by  the  minister 
of  religious  affairs,  are  organized  to  ensure  the  independence  of 
their  members  and  to  take  account  of  the  unique  features  of  each 
religious  community.  Religious  courts  of  the  ten  recognized  Chris- 
tian communities  are  administered  by  judges  appointed  by  indi- 
vidual communities  (see  Minority  Groups,  ch.  2). 

Civil  and  religious  judges  hold  office  from  the  day  of  appoint- 
ment; tenure  ends  only  upon  death,  resignation,  mandatory  re- 
tirement at  age  seventy,  or  removal  from  office  by  disciplinary 
judgment  as  specified  by  law.  Transfers  of  judges  from  one  local- 
ity to  another  require  the  consent  of  the  president  of  the  Supreme 
Court.  The  salaries  of  all  judges  are  determined  by  the  Knesset. 
Judges  may  not  be  members  of  the  Knesset  or  engage  in  partisan 
political  activity. 

Before  assuming  office,  all  judges,  regardless  of  religious  affilia- 
tion, must  declare  allegiance  to  the  State  of  Israel  and  swear  to 
dispense  justice  fairly.  Judges  other  than  dayanim  must  also  pledge 
loyalty  to  the  laws  of  the  state;  dayanim  are  subject  only  to  religious 
law.  The  implication  is  that  Jewish  religious  law  suspersedes  the 
man-made  laws  of  the  Knesset;  where  the  two  conflict,  a  dayan  will 
follow  religious  law  in  matters  of  personal  status.  Israeli  civil  liber- 
tarians view  this  as  a  blemish  on  the  judiciary  system  because,  as 
Israeli  political  scientist  Asher  Arian  points  out,  religious  laws  "re- 
strict certain  liberties  taken  for  granted  in  other  liberal  systems." 

At  the  top  of  the  court  hierarchy  is  the  Supreme  Court,  located 
in  Jerusalem  and  composed  of  a  number  of  justices  determined 
by  the  Knesset.  In  late  1988,  there  were  eleven  justices:  a  presi- 
dent or  chief  justice,  a  vice  president,  and  nine  justices.  The  court 
has  both  appellate  and  original  jurisdiction.  A  minimum  of  three 
justices  is  needed  for  a  court  session. 

The  Supreme  Court  hears  appeals  from  lower  courts  in  civil  and 
criminal  cases.  As  a  court  of  first  instance,  it  may  direct  a  lower 
district  court  to  hold  a  retrial  in  a  criminal  case  if  the  original  ver- 
dict is  based  on  questionable  evidence,  subject  to  the  stipulation 
that  penalties  imposed  at  retrial  should  not  exceed  the  severity  of 
those  originally  imposed.  In  addition,  the  Supreme  Court  has  origi- 
nal jurisdiction  over  petitions  seeking  relief  from  administrative 
decisions  that  fall  outside  the  jurisdiction  of  any  court.  In  this  role, 
the  Supreme  Court  sits  as  the  High  Court  of  Justice  and  may  re- 
strain government  agencies  or  other  public  institutions  by  such  writs 
as  habeas  corpus  and  mandamus,  customary  under  English  com- 
mon law.  In  its  capacity  as  the  High  Court  of  Justice,  it  may  also 


195 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


order  a  religious  court  to  deal  with  a  case  concerned  with  its  com- 
petence as  a  religious  body,  but  only  on  petitions  raised  before  a 
verdict  is  handed  down.  In  this  regard,  the  Supreme  Court  is  limited 
to  the  procedural  question  and  may  not  impinge  on  the  merits  of 
the  case. 

The  Supreme  Court  serves  as  the  principal  guardian  of  fun- 
damental rights,  protecting  the  individual  from  any  arbitrary  action 
by  public  officials  or  agencies.  It  does  not  have  the  power  of  judi- 
cial review  and  cannot  invalidate  Knesset  legislation.  It  is  em- 
powered, however,  to  nullify  administrative  rules  and  regulations 
or  government  and  local  ordinances  on  the  ground  of  their  illegal- 
ity or  conflict  with  Knesset  enactments.  As  the  highest  court  of  the 
land,  the  Supreme  Court  may  also  rule  on  the  applicability  of  laws 
in  a  disputed  case  and  on  jurisdictional  disputes  between  lower  civil 
courts  and  religious  courts.  There  is  no  appeal  from  its  decisions. 

The  second  tier  of  the  civil  court  structure  consists  of  six  district 
courts  located  in  Jerusalem,  Tel  Aviv,  Ramla,  Haifa,  Beersheba, 
and  Nazareth  (see  fig.  1).  As  courts  of  first  instance,  district  courts 
hear  civil  and  criminal  cases  outside  the  jurisdiction  of  lower  courts. 
Their  jurisdiction  includes  certain  matters  of  personal  status  in- 
volving foreigners.  If  the  foreigners  concerned  consent  to  the 
authority  of  religious  courts,  however,  there  is  concurrent  juris- 
diction over  the  issue.  The  district  court  at  Haifa  has  additional 
competence  as  a  court  of  admiralty  for  the  country  as  a  whole. 

District  courts  also  hear  appeals  from  magistrate  courts,  muni- 
cipal courts,  and  various  administrative  tribunals.  Israel's  twenty- 
eight  magistrate  courts  constitute  the  most  basic  level  of  the  civil 
court  system.  They  are  located  in  major  towns  and  have  criminal 
as  well  as  civil  jurisdiction.  There  are  a  small  number  of  municipal 
courts  that  have  criminal  jurisdiction  over  any  offenses  commit- 
ted within  municipal  areas  against  municipal  regulations,  local 
ordinances,  by-laws,  and  town-planning  orders. 

The  civil  court  structure  includes  bodies  of  special  jurisdiction, 
most  notably  traffic  courts;  juvenile  courts;  administrative  tribunals 
concerned  with  profiteering,  tenancy,  and  water;  and  tribal  courts 
specific  to  the  Southern  District  having  jurisdiction  in  any  civil  or 
criminal  cases  assigned  to  them  by  the  president  of  the  district  court 
or  the  district  commissioner.  Disputes  involving  management- 
employee  relations  and  insurance  claims  go  to  regional  labor  courts. 
The  courts,  established  in  1969,  are  located  in  Jerusalem,  Tel  Aviv, 
Haifa,  and  Beersheba.  Appeals  from  the  decisions  of  these  courts 
are  made  directly  to  the  National  Labor  Court,  located  in  Jerusa- 
lem. Finally,  distinct  from  court-martial  proceedings  is  the  military 


196 


Yitzhak  Shamir, 
Prime  Minister  of 
Israel  and  head  of 
the  Likud  Party 
Courtesy  Embassy 
of  Israel,  Washington 


Shimon  Peres, 
leader  of  the  Labor  Party 
Courtesy  Embassy 
of  Israel,  Washington 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


court  system,  empowered  to  prosecute  civilians  for  offenses  against 
defense  emergency  regulations. 

Local  Government 

As  of  late  1988,  there  were  two  levels  of  local  government:  the 
central  government  operated  the  upper  or  district  level;  citizens 
elected  the  lower  and  relatively  autonomous  municipal  level  offi- 
cials. The  system  of  district  administration  and  local  government 
was  for  the  most  part  based  on  statutes  first  promulgated  during 
the  Ottoman  era  and  perpetuated  under  the  British  Mandate  for 
Palestine  and  under  Yishuv  policies.  Since  independence  it  has  been 
modified  to  deal  with  changing  needs  and  to  foster  local  self-rule. 
As  of  late  1988,  local  government  institutions  had  limited  powers, 
experienced  financial  difficulties,  and  depended  to  a  great  extent 
on  national  ministries;  they  were,  nevertheless,  important  in  the 
political  framework. 

Israel  consisted  of  six  administrative  districts  and  fourteen 
subdistricts  under,  respectively,  district  commissioners  and  district 
officers.  The  minister  of  interior  appointed  these  officials,  who  were 
responsible  to  him  for  implementing  legislative  and  administrative 
matters.  District  officials  drafted  local  government  legislation,  ap- 
proved and  controlled  local  tax  rates  and  budgets,  reviewed  and 
approved  by-laws  and  ordinances  passed  by  locally  elected  coun- 
cils, approved  local  public  works  projects,  and  decided  on  grants 
and  loans  to  local  governments.  In  their  activities,  local  officials 
were  also  accountable  to  the  Office  of  the  State  Comptroller.  Staff 
of  other  ministries  might  be  placed  by  the  minister  of  interior  under 
the  general  supervision  of  district  commissioners. 

Israel's  local  self-government  derived  its  authority  from  the  by- 
laws and  ordinances  enacted  by  elected  municipal,  local,  and  re- 
gional councils  and  approved  by  the  minister  of  interior.  Up  to 
and  including  the  municipal  elections  of  1973,  mayors  and  mem- 
bers of  the  municipal  councils  were  elected  by  universal,  secret, 
direct,  and  proportional  balloting  for  party  lists  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  Knesset  members.  Council  members  in  turn  chose  mayors 
and  municipal  council  chairpersons.  After  1978  mayoral  candidates 
were  elected  directly  by  voters  in  a  specific  municipality,  while  mem- 
bers of  municipal  and  local  councils  continued  to  be  elected 
according  to  the  performance  of  party  lists  and  on  the  basis  of 
proportional  representation  (see  The  Knesset,  this  ch.). 

Population  determined  the  size  of  municipal  and  local  councils. 
Large  urban  areas  were  classified  as  municipalities  and  had 
municipal  councils.  Local  councils  were  designated  class  "A" 
(larger)  or  class  "B"  (smaller),  depending  on  the  number  of 


198 


Government  and  Politics 


inhabitants  in  villages  or  settlements.  Regional  councils  consisted 
of  elected  delegates  from  settlements  according  to  their  size.  Such 
councils  dealt  mainly  with  the  needs  of  cooperative  settlements, 
including  kibbutzim  and  moshavim  (see  Glossary).  The  extensive 
local  government  powers  of  the  minister  of  interior  included  author- 
ity to  dissolve  municipal  councils;  district  commissioners  had  the 
same  power  with  regard  to  local  councils. 

Local  authorities  had  responsibility  for  providing  public  services 
in  areas  such  as  education,  health  care  and  sanitation,  water 
management,  road  maintenance,  parks  and  recreation,  and  fire 
brigades.  They  also  levied  and  collected  local  taxes,  especially 
property  taxes,  and  other  fees.  Given  the  paucity  of  locally  raised 
tax  revenues,  most  local  authorities  depended  heavily  on  grants 
and  loans  from  the  national  Treasury.  The  Ministry  of  Education 
and  Culture,  however,  made  most  of  the  important  decisions 
regarding  education,  such  as  budgets,  curriculum,  and  the  hiring, 
training,  and  licensing  of  teachers.  Nationwide,  in  1986  local 
authorities  contributed  approximately  50  percent  to  financing  local 
budgets.  In  1979  the  figure  was  about  29  percent.  Over  the  years, 
municipalities  have  relied  on  two  other  methods  for  raising  funds: 
cities  such  as  Jerusalem,  Tel  Aviv,  and  Haifa  used  special  municipal 
endowment  funds,  particularly  for  cultural  purposes;  and  Project 
Renewal,  a  collaboration  among  local  authorities,  government 
ministries,  and  the  Jewish  Agency  (see  Glossary)  provided  funds 
to  rehabilitate  deteriorated  neighborhoods. 

Local  government  employees  came  under  the  Local  Authorities 
Order  (Employment  Service)  of  1962.  The  statutes  pertaining  to 
the  national  Civil  Service  Commission  did  not  cover  them. 

The  Local  Government  Center,  a  voluntary  association  of  major 
cities  and  local  councils,  was  originally  established  in  1936,  and 
reorganized  in  1956.  It  represented  the  interests  of  local  govern- 
ing bodies  vis-a-vis  the  central  authorities,  government  ministries, 
and  Knesset  committees.  It  also  represented  local  authorities  in 
wage  negotiations  and  signed  relevant  agreements  together  with 
the  Histadrut  and  the  government.  The  center  organized  confer- 
ences and  advisory  commissions  to  study  professional,  budgetary, 
and  managerial  issues,  and  it  participated  in  various  national  com- 
missions. 

Civilian  Administration  in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip 

A  civilian  administration  has  been  set  up  in  the  West  Bank  and 
the  Gaza  Strip  as  an  interim  measure  pending  final  resolution  of 
the  political  future  of  these  two  areas,  which  are  not  part  of  Israel 
proper.  While  Labor  was  in  power,  Israeli-sponsored  municipal 


199 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

elections  were  held  in  the  West  Bank  in  1976.  The  civilian  adminis- 
tration of  the  area  until  late  1987  employed  approximately  13,000 
to  14,000  Palestinian  civil  servants.  The  Palestinian  uprising 
(intifadah)  in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip  that  began  in  De- 
cember 1987,  however,  had  a  profound  impact  on  the  relationship 
between  the  civilian  administration  and  the  Palestinian  inhabitants 
of  the  occupied  territories  (see  Introduction;  Palestinian  Uprising, 
December  1987-,  ch.  5). 

National  Institutions 

As  of  late  1988,  Israel  had  a  number  of  so-called  "nongovern- 
ment public  sector"  organizations,  also  known  as  "national  insti- 
tutions." For  all  practical  purposes,  they  constituted  an  integral 
part  of  the  government  system,  performing  functions  that  were  vital 
to  the  fulfillment  of  Zionist  aspirations  and  to  the  maintenance  of 
Israeli  society.  Political  parties  competed  for  leadership  and 
patronage  within  them.  During  the  Mandate  period,  these  organi- 
zations served  as  the  British  administration's  officially  recognized 
governing  bodies  for  the  Jewish  community  in  Palestine.  The  Jewish 
Agency  Executive,  for  instance,  was  recognized  by  the  governments 
of  Britain,  the  United  States,  and  other  states  and  international 
organizations,  including  the  United  Nations  (UN).  In  the  process 
of  their  work,  the  organizations  acquired  considerable  experience 
in  self-rule,  not  to  mention  jealously  guarded  bureaucratic 
prerogatives. 

These  bodies  engaged  in  fund-raising  in  the  Diaspora  (see  Glos- 
sary), operated  social  welfare  services,  and  were  involved  in  edu- 
cation and  cultural  work.  They  operated  enterprises,  including 
housing  companies;  organized  immigration;  and  promoted  Zionist 
work.  After  Israel  achieved  independence,  many  of  these  services 
were  taken  over  by  the  state,  but  others  remained  under  the  con- 
trol of  these  well-entrenched  organizations.  They  came  to  func- 
tion side  by  side  with  the  government,  and  their  activities  often 
overlapped,  especially  in  the  field  of  social  welfare  services.  Until 
the  early  1970s,  these  organizations  were  almost  completely  domi- 
nated by  Israeli  governments;  later,  the  organized  representatives 
of  Diaspora  Jewry  began  to  function  more  independently. 

World  Zionist  Organization  and  the  Jewish  Agency 

Principal  among  these  bodies  were  the  World  Zionist  Organi- 
zation (WZO — see  Glossary)  and  the  Jewish  Agency.  The  Jewish 
Agency  for  Palestine  was  established  in  1929  under  the  terms  of 
the  League  of  Nations  Mandate  for  Palestine  as  the  operative  arm 
of  the  WZO  in  building  a  Jewish  national  homeland.  In  1952  the 


200 


Government  and  Politics 


Knesset  enacted  the  World  Zionist  Organization-The  Jewish  Agen- 
cy (Status)  Law,  defining  the  WZO  as  "also  the  Jewish  Agency." 
The  1952  law  expressly  designated  the  WZO  as  "the  authorized 
agency  which  will  continue  to  operate  in  the  State  of  Israel  for  the 
development  and  settlement  of  the  country,  the  absorption  of  im- 
migrants from  the  Diaspora  and  the  coordination  of  activities  in 
Israel  of  Jewish  institutions  and  organizations  active  in  those  fields." 
The  same  statute  granted  tax-exempt  status  to  the  Jewish  Agency 
and  the  authority  to  represent  the  WZO  as  its  action  arm  for  fund 
raising  and,  in  close  cooperation  with  the  government,  for  the  pro- 
motion of  Jewish  immigration.  The  specifics  of  cooperation  were 
spelled  out  in  a  covenant  entered  into  with  the  government  in  1954. 
The  1954  pact  also  recognized  the  WZO  and  the  Jewish  Agency 
as  official  representatives  of  world  Jewry. 

These  two  bodies  played  a  significant  role  in  consolidating  the 
new  State  of  Israel,  absorbing  and  resettling  immigrants,  and  en- 
listing support  from,  and  fostering  the  unity  of,  the  Diaspora.  Their 
activities  included  organizing  immigration,  resettling  immigrants, 
assisting  their  employment  in  agriculture  and  industry,  education, 
raising  funds  abroad,  and  purchasing  land  in  Israel  for  settlers 
through  the  Jewish  National  Fund  (Keren  Kayemet).  In  princi- 
ple, the  WZO  was  responsible  mainly  for  political  and  organiza- 
tional matters  important  to  Zionists — Jewish  education  in  the 
Diaspora  and  supervision  of  the  Jewish  National  Fund — whereas 
the  Jewish  Agency's  main  concern  was  for  financial  and  economic 
activities.  In  practice,  the  division  of  functions  was  more  often  ob- 
scured, resulting  in  a  duplication  of  efforts  and  a  bureaucratic 
morass. 

In  1971  the  relationship  between  the  WZO  and  the  Jewish 
Agency  was  reconstituted  as  part  of  a  continuing  effort  to  improve 
the  operations  of  these  bodies  and  to  harmonize  and  strengthen 
ties  between  the  state  and  the  Diaspora.  The  need  for  this  step  was 
thought  to  be  particularly  acute  after  the  June  1967  War,  when 
contributions  to  Israel  from  previously  uncommitted  sections  of 
the  Diaspora  reached  unprecedented  proportions.  Impressed  by 
the  show  of  support,  the  congress  of  the  WZO,  which  is  usually 
convened  every  four  years,  directed  the  Jewish  Agency  to  initiate 
discussions  with  all  fund-raising  institutions  working  for  Israel.  The 
purpose  of  these  negotiations  was  to  establish  a  central  framework 
for  cooperation  and  coordination  between  the  Jewish  Agency  and 
other  fund-raising  groups.  These  discussions  led  to  an  agreement 
in  1971  whereby  the  governing  bodies  of  the  Jewish  Agency 
were  enlarged  not  only  to  provide  equal  representation  for  Israeli 
and  Diaspora  Jews  but  also  to  ensure  a  balance  in  geographical 


201 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

representation.  The  reconstitution  helped  to  address  the  long- 
standing grievance  of  non-Zionist  and  non-Israeli  supporters  of 
Israel  that  the  Jewish  Agency  was  dominated  by  Israel-based 
Zionists. 

Under  the  1971  rearrangement,  the  WZO  was  separated  in  terms 
of  its  functions,  but  not  its  leadership,  from  the  Jewish  Agency. 
This  was  necessary  because  of  the  restrictive  provision  of  the  United 
States  tax  code  pertaining  to  contributions  and  gifts.  Those  of  its 
activities  that  were  "political"  or  otherwise  questionable  from  a 
tax-exemption  standpoint  had  to  be  grouped  separately  and  placed 
under  the  WZO.  The  organization  was  directed  to  *' continue  as 
the  organ  of  the  Zionist  movement  for  the  fulfillment  of  Zionist 
programs  and  ideals,"  but  its  operations  were  to  be  confined  mainly 
to  the  Diaspora.  Among  the  main  functions  of  the  WZO  after  1971 
were  Jewish  education,  Zionist  organizational  work,  information 
and  cultural  programs,  youth  work,  external  relations,  rural  de- 
velopment, and  the  activities  of  the  Jewish  National  Fund.  For  the 
most  part,  these  functions  were  financed  by  funds  funneled  through 
the  Jewish  Agency,  which  continued  to  serve  as  the  main  financial 
arm  of  the  WZO.  However,  because  of  United  States  tax  law  stipu- 
lations, funds  allocated  for  the  WZO  by  the  Jewish  Agency  were 
required  to  come  from  those  collected  by  Keren  HaYesod  (Israel 
Foundation  Fund — see  Glossary),  the  agency's  financial  arm  in 
countries  other  than  the  United  States. 

The  Jewish  Agency's  task  was  not  only  to  coordinate  various 
fund-raising  institutions  but  also  to  finance  such  programs  as  im- 
migration and  land  settlement  and  to  assist  immigrants  in  matters 
of  housing,  social  welfare,  education,  and  youth  care.  The  United 
Jewish  Appeal  (UJA,  sometimes  designated  the  United  Israel 
Appeal)  raised  the  agency's  funds  in  the  United  States.  In  the  1980s, 
contributions  and  gifts  from  the  United  States  usually  accounted 
for  more  than  two- thirds  of  the  total  revenue  of  the  Jewish  Agency. 
In  1988  American  Jews  donated  US$357  million  to  Israel  through 
the  UJA. 

The  Jewish  National  Fund  was  the  land-purchasing  arm  of  the 
WZO.  It  dealt  mainly  with  land  development  issues  such  as  recla- 
mation, afforestation,  and  road  construction  in  frontier  regions. 
Keren  HaYesod  provided  partial  funding  for  programs,  which  were 
implemented  in  close  cooperation  with  the  Jewish  Agency  and  vari- 
ous government  ministries. 

Histadrut 

As  of  the  late  1980s,  the  Histadrut  (HaHistadrut  HaKlalit  shel 
HaOvdim  B'Eretz  Yisrael,  General  Federation  of  Laborers  in  the 


202 


Government  and  Politics 


Land  of  Israel)  continued  to  be  a  major  factor  in  Israeli  life  as  the 
largest  voluntary  organization  in  the  country.  It  also  wielded  an 
enormous  influence  on  the  government's  wage  policy  and  labor 
legislation,  and  was  influential  in  political,  social,  and  cultural 
realms  (see  Distinctive  Social  Institutions,  ch.  2).  The  largest  trade 
union  organization,  and  largest  employer  in  Israel  after  the  govern- 
ment, the  Histadrut  has  opened  its  membership  to  almost  all  oc- 
cupations. Its  membership  in  1983  was  1,600,000  (including 
dependents),  accounting  for  more  than  one-third  of  the  total  popu- 
lation of  Israel  and  about  85  percent  of  all  wage  earners.  About 
170,000  Histadrut  members  were  Arabs.  Founded  in  1920  by  Labor 
Zionist  parties,  traditionally  it  has  been  controlled  by  the  Labor 
Party,  but  not  to  the  exclusion  of  other  parties  (see  Multiparty  Sys- 
tem, this  ch.).  Almost  all  political  parties  or  their  affiliated  socioeco- 
nomic institutions  were  represented  in  the  organization. 

The  Histadrut  performed  functions  that  were  unique  to  Israeli 
society,  a  legacy  of  its  nation-building  role  in  a  wide  range  of  eco- 
nomic, trade  union,  military,  social,  and  cultural  activities.  Through 
its  economic  arm,  Hevrat  HaOvdim  (Society  of  Workers),  the 
Histadrut  operated  numerous  economic  enterprises  and  owned  and 
managed  the  country's  largest  industrial  conglomerates.  It  owned 
the  country's  second  largest  bank  (Bank  HaPoalim)  and  provided 
the  largest  and  most  comprehensive  system  of  health  insurance  and 
also  operated  medical  and  hospital  services.  In  addition,  it  coordi- 
nated the  activities  of  domestic  labor  cooperative  movements,  and 
through  its  International  Department,  as  well  as  organizations  such 
as  the  Afro-Asian  Institute,  it  maintained  connections  with  labor 
movements  in  other  countries. 

Israeli  political  parties  have  regularly  contested  elections  to  the 
Histadrut  Conference  (Veida),  held  every  four  years.  They  also 
have  contested  elections  to  the  National  Labor  Council  and  to  the 
country's  seventy- two  local  labor  councils.  Voting  results  in  these 
elections  have  often  paralleled  or  preceded  trends  in  parliamen- 
tary and  municipal  elections. 

The  Histadrut  Conference  elects  a  General  Council  and  an 
Executive  Committee.  The  committee  in  turn  elects  a  forty-three 
member  Executive  Bureau,  which  administers  day-to-day  policy. 
The  Histadrut 's  secretary  general,  its  most  powerful  official,  is 
elected  by  the  Executive  Committee.  As  in  the  past,  in  late  1988 
the  Histadrut' s  secretary  general,  Israel  Kaissar,  was  a  Labor  Party 
leader  and  a  member  of  its  Knesset  delegation. 

Political  Framework:  Elite,  Values,  and  Orientations 

When  Israel  became  independent,  its  founding  political  elite,  as- 
sociated mainly  with  Mapai,  had  almost  three  decades  of  experience 


203 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

in  operating  self-governing  institutions  under  the  British  Mandate. 
The  top  Mapai/Labor  Party  leaders  continued  to  dominate  Israeli 
politics  for  another  three  decades.  Their  paramount  influence  for 
over  half  a  century  as  founders,  architects,  and  prime  movers  of 
a  Jewish  national  homeland  has  had  an  enduring  effect  on  their 
successor  generation  and  the  political  scene  in  Israel.  The  elite, 
political  culture,  social  structure,  and  social  makeup  of  any  nation 
entwine  in  complex  ways  and  in  the  process  shape  the  character 
and  direction  of  a  given  political  system.  This  process  holds  true 
especially  in  Israel,  where  ideological  imperatives  and  their  institu- 
tionalization have  constituted  an  important  part  of  the  country's 
evolution. 

The  first  generation  of  Israeli  leaders  came  to  Palestine  (which 
they  called  Eretz  Yisrael,  or  Land  of  Israel)  mainly  during  the  Sec- 
ond Aliyah  (see  Glossary)  between  1900  and  1914  (see  Labor 
Zionism,  ch.  1).  The  Ashkenazim  (Jews  of  European  origin),  who 
constituted  the  majority  among  the  Yishuv's  mostly  Labor  Zionist 
political  and  socioeconomic  elites,  were  impelled  by  Zionist  ideals. 
The  majority  held  to  Labor  Zionism,  while  others  adhered  to 
moderate  General  Zionism  (sometimes  called  Political  Zionism)  or 
right-wing  Revisionist  Zionism.  To  the  early  immigrants,  the 
themes  promoted  by  the  different  Zionist  movements  provided 
powerful  impulses  for  sociopolitical  action.  These  pioneers  were 
essentially  Labor  Zionists  with  an  abiding  faith  in  the  rectitude  of 
values  that  stressed,  among  other  things,  the  establishment  of  a 
modern  Jewish  nation  promoting  mutual  assistance  under  the  prin- 
ciple of  "from  each  according  to  his  ability,  to  each  according  to 
his  needs,"  abolition  of  private  ownership  of  the  means  of  produc- 
tion, and  the  idea  that  human  consciousness  and  character  were 
conditioned  by  the  social  environment.  They  also  held  that  Jewish 
land  should  be  developed  in  a  collectivist  agricultural  framework, 
that  well-to-do  Jews  in  the  Diaspora  should  materially  aid  the  cause 
of  the  Jewish  homeland,  and  that  the  Jews  of  the  Diaspora  should 
seek  the  fullest  measure  of  redemption  by  immigrating  to  the  new 
Yishuv.  In  addition,  collectivist  values  of  East  European  and  Central 
European  origin,  in  which  the  founding  generation  had  been  so- 
cialized, affected  the  political  orientation  of  Israel  both  before  and 
after  independence. 

The  value  system  of  the  first  generation  came  to  be  exemplified 
first  and  foremost  in  the  communal  and  egalitarian  kibbutz  and 
to  a  lesser  extent  in  the  moshav.  Together  these  institutions  ac- 
counted for  less  than  3  percent  of  the  Jewish  population  at  any  given 
time,  but  they  have  held  a  special  place  in  Israeli  society  as  the 
citadel  of  pioneer  ideology.  They  also  gave  Israel  a  distinctive 


204 


Government  and  Politics 


self-image  as  a  robust,  dedicated,  egalitarian,  "farmer-  or  citizen- 
soldier"  society.  The  kibbutzim  also  produced  numbers  of  national 
leaders  out  of  proportion  to  their  small  population;  they  also  pro- 
vided the  country  with  some  of  its  best  soldiers  and  officers. 

The  founding  generation  of  Israeli  leaders,  including  David  Ben- 
Gurion,  Yitzhak  Ben-Zvi,  Berl  Katznelson,  Moshe  Sharett,  and 
later,  Levi  Eshkol  and  Golda  Meir,  in  effect  shaped  the  country's 
socioeconomic  structures  and  political  patterns.  These  people  were 
instrumental  in  establishing  the  original  Labor  Zionist  parties  be- 
ginning in  1905,  in  merging  them  to  establish  Mapai  in  1930,  and 
in  organizing  the  Histadrut  and  Jewish  self-defense  institutions, 
such  as  the  Haganah  (see  Glossary),  which  later  became  the  Israel 
Defense  Forces  (IDF)  in  1948.  These  formative,  nation-building 
organizations,  along  with  the  quasi-governmental  Elected  Assem- 
bly (Asefat  Hanivharim — see  Glossary),  the  National  Council 
(Vaad  Leumi),  the  WZO,  and  the  Jewish  Agency,  served  as  the 
Yishuv's  national  institutions,  shaping  the  character  of  postindepen- 
dence  Israel. 

From  its  earliest  days,  Mapai,  which  had  an  interlocking  leader- 
ship with  the  Histadrut,  dominated  Israeli  public  life,  including 
the  top  echelons  of  the  IDF,  the  WZO,  and  the  Jewish  Agency. 
Its  legitimacy  as  a  ruling  party  was  seldom  questioned  because  it 
was  identified  with  the  mystique  of  the  Zionist  struggle  for  indepen- 
dence, patriotism,  and  the  successful  consolidation  of  statehood. 
The  essentially  secular  political  values  espoused  by  Mapai  leaders 
were  endorsed  by  most  of  the  Jewish  population.  The  absence  of 
effective  alternative  governing  elites  or  countervalues  within  the 
country's  multiparty  coalition- type  government  system  made  it 
difficult  to  challenge  the  Mapai-controlled  political  mainstream. 
Moreover,  political  patterns  from  the  1920s  until  the  June  1967 
War  generally  discouraged  the  rise  of  radical  right-wing  or  left- 
wing  destabilizing  tendencies.  This  trend  was  rooted  in  the  over- 
all political  dominance  of  Israel's  Labor  Party  and  its  predeces- 
sors and  the  strength  of  the  mutual  restraints  inherent  in  Israel's 
political  subcultures. 

Mainstream  Israeli  society  is  composed  of  persons  who  represent 
pluralistic  cultural  and  political  backgrounds.  Politically,  some 
Israeli  Jews  have  liberal  West  European  orientations;  others  were 
reared  in  more  collectivist  Central  European  and  East  European 
environments,  or  in  authoritarian  Middle  Eastern  political  cultures. 
Some  are  religiously  more  traditional  than  others,  but  even  among 
Orthodox  Jews,  shades  of  conviction  vary  substantially  over  the 
role  of  Jewish  customary  laws  and  the  relationship  between  the  state 
and  religion.  Thus,  the  founding  generation  had  to  develop  a 


205 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

political  system  that  reconciled  and  accommodated  the  varied  needs 
of  a  wide  range  of  groups. 

The  political  system  within  Israel  proper,  excluding  the  West 
Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip,  is  geared  to  the  broadest  possible  level 
of  public  participation.  Political  activities  are  relatively  free, 
although  authoritarian  and  antidemocratic  tendencies  were  evident 
among  some  of  the  leaders  and  supporters  of  right-wing  ultra- 
nationalist  parties  and  factions.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  impetus  to 
"agree  to  disagree"  within  the  democratic  framework  of  concilia- 
tion began  to  show  some  weakening  as  a  result  of  intense  polariz- 
ing controversies  over  the  future  of  the  occupied  territories  and 
various  disputes  over  issues  concerning  the  state  and  religion. 

By  the  early  1970s,  Jews  of  Sephardic  origin  (popularly  referred 
to  in  Israel  as  Oriental  Jews)  outnumbered  their  Ashkenazic  coun- 
terparts as  a  demographic  group.  The  older  Sephardim  were,  in 
general,  from  politically  authoritarian  and  religiously  traditional 
North  African  and  Middle  Eastern  societies  that  regarded  the  Cen- 
tral European  and  West  European  secular  and  social  democratic 
political  value  spectrum  as  too  modern  and  far-reaching  as  com- 
pared to  their  own.  They  were  accustomed  to  strong  authoritarian 
leaders  rather  than  ideals  emphasizing  social  democratic  collecti- 
vism and  popular  sovereignty.  Nonetheless,  a  sizable  proportion 
of  Sephardim  joined  Labor's  ranks  both  as  leaders  and  rank-and- 
file  party  members. 

Oriental  Jews  came  to  be  referred  to  in  the  1960s  as  "the  Sec- 
ond Israel" — the  numerically  larger  but  socially,  culturally,  eco- 
nomically, and  politically  disadvantaged  half  of  the  nation  (see 
Jewish  Ethnic  Groups,  ch.  2).  Not  all  Orientals  were  economically 
deprived,  but  nearly  all  of  those  who  were  relatively  poor  belonged 
to  Sephardic  communities.  The  communal  gap  and  attendant  ten- 
sions between  Ashkenazic  and  Sephardic  Jews  have  naturally  en- 
gaged the  remedial  efforts  of  successive  governments,  but  results 
have  fallen  far  short  of  Oriental  expectations.  The  problem  was 
partly  rooted  in  the  country's  political  institutions  and  processes. 
Ashkenazic  dominance  of  sociopolitical  and  economic  life  had  been 
firmly  institutionalized  before  independence.  Over  the  years,  how- 
ever, Sephardic  representation  substantially  increased  in  the  coun- 
try's major  political  parties,  and  as  of  the  1980s,  Sephardic  Jews 
occupied  leadership  positions  in  many  municipalities. 

Not  surprisingly,  beginning  in  the  1950s,  most  Sephardim  tended 
to  vote  against  Mapai  and  its  successor,  Labor.  Both  were  per- 
ceived as  representing  the  Ashkenazic  establishment,  even  though 
Sephardim  were  always  represented  among  the  ranks  of  party 
leaders.  In  the  1950s  and  early  1960s,  while  many  Sephardim  were 


206 


Government  and  Politics 


impressed  with  Ben-Gurion's  charismatic  and  authoritative  leader- 
ship, they  nevertheless  tended  to  support  Herut,  the  major  oppo- 
sition party  led  by  Menachem  Begin,  whose  right-wing  populism 
and  ultranationalist,  anti-Arab  national  security  posture  appealed 
to  them.  Paradoxically,  the  socialist-inspired  social  welfare  system, 
a  system  built  by  Mapai  and  sustained  by  Labor  and  the  Labor- 
dominated  Histadrut,  benefited  the  Sephardim  particularly.  In 
general,  the  Sephardim  tended  to  support  the  right-wing  Gahal/ 
Likud  blocs  that  for  years  had  advocated  a  substantial  modifica- 
tion of  the  welfare  system  so  as  to  decrease  its  socialist  emphasis. 
In  terms  of  long-range  electoral  trends,  the  Sephardic  position  did 
not  augur  well  for  the  Labor  Zionist  elite  of  the  Labor  Party. 

Pressure  for  greater  political  representation  and  power  has  come 
from  the  younger,  Israeli-born  generation  of  both  Ashkenazic  and 
Sephardic  origins.  As  a  group,  they  were  less  obsessed  with  the 
past  than  their  elders.  The  youth  have  been  moving  toward  a  strong, 
industrialized,  capitalist,  Western-style,  middle-class  society  as  the 
national  norm.  Although  some  younger  right-wing  ultranationalists 
and  right-wing  religious  advocates  continued  to  be  imbued  with 
the  extremist  nationalism  and  religious  messianism  of  their  elders — 
as  shown,  for  example,  by  their  support  of  parties  favoring  annex- 
ation of  the  occupied  territories — most  of  the  younger  generation 
were  more  secular,  pragmatic,  and  moderate  on  such  issues. 

The  concerns  of  secular  young  people  went  beyond  the  ques- 
tion of  "Who  is  a  Jew" — which  they  continuously  had  to  confront 
because  of  right-wing  religious  pressures — to  such  critical  issues 
as  the  quality  of  education,  social  status,  economic  conditions,  and 
the  comforts  of  modern  life.  Their  primary  interests  have  been  how 
to  make  Israel  more  secure  from  external  threat  and  how  to  im- 
prove the  quality  of  life  for  all.  Nevertheless,  for  many  Israelis, 
the  founding  ideologies  remained  a  ritualized  part  of  national  po- 
litics. 

Urbanization  and  industrialization  were  equally  potent  forces 
of  change;  their  adulterating  effect  on  Israel's  founding  ideology 
has  been  particularly  significant.  They  have  led  to  new  demands, 
new  opportunities,  and  new  stresses  in  social  and  economic  life  af- 
fecting all  social  and  political  strata.  The  older  commitment  to 
agriculture,  pioneering,  and  collectivism  has  crumbled  before  the 
relentless  pressure  of  industrialization  and  the  bridging  of  the  gap 
between  urban  and  rural  life.  Collective  and  communal  settlements 
have  become  increasingly  industrialized;  factories  and  high- 
technology  industries  have  been  set  up;  the  mass  media  have  facil- 
iated  an  influx  of  new  information  and  ideas;  and  additional  lay- 
ers of  bureaucratic  and  institutional  arrangements  have  emerged. 


207 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Kibbutz  idealism,  the  pride  of  Israel,  has  declined,  especially  among 
increasingly  individualistic  and  consumer-oriented  young  people. 
To  stem  this  tide  and  to  retain  young  members,  kibbutz  federa- 
tions and  individual  kibbutzim  have  established  many  educational 
and  vocational  programs  and  activities. 

As  the  1970s  began,  the  social  base  of  Israeli  politics  had  be- 
come highly  complex,  and  political  fluidity  resulted.  A  major 
catalyst  in  creating  a  new  mood  was  the  October  1973  War,  known 
in  Israel  as  the  Yom  Kippur  War,  which  dealt  a  crushing  blow 
to  popular  belief  in  Israel's  strength  and  preparedness  in  the  face 
of  its  Arab  adversaries  (see  The  October  1973  War,  ch.  5).  The 
result  was  a  loss  of  confidence  in  the  political  and  national  security 
elite,  headed  at  the  time  by  Prime  Minister  Golda  Meir,  Minister 
of  Defense  Moshe  Dayan,  and  Minister- Without-Portfolio  Israel 
Galilee.  After  the  war,  in  which  Egyptian  and  Syrian  forces  scored 
military  gains,  many  charges  and  countercharges  concerned  inade- 
quate military  preparedness.  Nevertheless,  Meir's  government 
returned  to  power  in  the  country's  parliamentary  elections  held 
on  December  31,  1973.  Apparently,  despite  widespread  misgiv- 
ings, many  Israelis  believed  that  continuity  was  preferable  to  change 
and  uncertainty  under  Begin 's  newly  formed  and  untried  center- 
right  Likud  Bloc  (see  The  Likud  Bloc,  this  ch.). 

Meir's  resignation  from  the  prime  ministership  in  April  1974 
resulted  in  a  succession  crisis  and  the  departure  of  the  last  of  Labor's 
old  guard  party  leaders,  mostly  in  their  late  sixties  and  seventies, 
such  as  Meir,  Pinchas  Sapir,  and  Israel  Galilee.  Meir's  departure 
triggered  political  infighting  among  the  Labor  elite,  specifically  be- 
tween the  former  Mapai  and  Rafi  (Israel  Labor  List — see  Appen- 
dix B)  factions;  a  new  generation  centered  around  the  triumvirate 
of  Yitzhak  Rabin,  Shimon  Peres,  and  Yigal  Allon,  succeeded  Meir. 

The  second  most  striking  political  development  in  the  1970s  was 
the  ascendance  of  a  new  right-wing  counterelite  in  May  1977.  An 
upset  victory  in  the  ninth  parliamentary  elections,  called  an  "earth- 
quake" by  some,  brought  Begin' s  center- right  Likud  to  power, 
ending  Labor's  half  a  century  of  political  dominance.  The  new  po- 
litical elite  won  primarily  because  of  the  defection  of  former  Labor 
leaders  and  previous  Labor  voters  to  the  Democratic  Movement 
for  Change  (DMC),  which  had  been  founded  in  1976  by  Yigal 
Yadin  and  several  other  groups.  Despite  the  subsequent  collapse 
of  the  DMC  and  the  defection  of  moderates  from  the  Likud-led 
cabinet — for  example,  former  Minister  of  Defense  Ezer  Weizman 
formed  his  own  list  Yahad  (Together — see  Appendix  B)  in  1981 
and  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  Moshe  Dayan  created  Telem — 
Likud's  success  in  the  tenth  parliamentary  elections  of  1981  resulted 


208 


Government  and  Politics 


from  its  continued  ability  to  present  itself  as  a  viable  governing 
group  and  a  party  dedicated  to  ultranationalism  and  territorial  ex- 
pansionism. 

The  top  echelons  of  the  Israeli  political  elite  as  of  the  late  1980s 
were  still  predominantly  of  European  background;  many  of  them 
had  either  immigrated  to  Palestine  during  the  1930s  and  the  1940s 
or  had  been  born  in  the  Yishuv  to  parents  of  East  European  or 
Central  European  origin.  A  growing  number  of  Oriental  politi- 
cians, however,  were  making  their  mark  in  the  top  ranks  of  all  the 
major  parties  and  at  the  ministerial  and  subministerial  levels.  A 
majority  of  the  elite  had  a  secular  university  education,  while  a 
minority  had  a  more  traditional  religious  education.  The  political 
elite  was  overwhelmingly  urban — most  resided  in  Tel  Aviv,  Jerusa- 
lem, or  Haifa.  A  minority,  particularly  the  Sephardim,  came  from 
the  newer  development  towns.  Among  the  elite  who  resided  in  rural 
areas  most,  especially  members  of  Labor  and  its  satellites,  repre- 
sented communal  kibbutzim  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  moshavim. 

By  occupational  category,  professional  party  politicians  consti- 
tuted by  far  the  largest  single  group,  followed,  in  numerical  order, 
by  lawyers,  kibbutz  officials,  educators,  Histadrut  or  private  sec- 
tor corporate  managers,  journalists,  ex-military  officers,  and,  to 
a  lesser  degree,  functionaries  of  religious  institutions.  Many  of  the 
elite  were  in  the  forty-to-mid-sixty  age  bracket.  In  1988  the  politi- 
cal elite  numbered  more  than  200  individuals,  excluding  the  broader 
social  elite  encompassing  business,  military,  religious,  educational, 
cultural,  and  agricultural  figures.  The  number  would  be  greater 
if  senior  officials  in  such  key  offices  as  the  Office  of  the  Prime 
Minister  and  the  ministries  of  defense,  foreign  affairs,  finance,  and 
commerce,  as  well  as  the  Histadrut  and  its  industrial  and  finan- 
cial enterprises  and  trade  unions,  were  included. 

The  power  of  individual  members  of  the  elite  varied  depending 
on  their  personal  reputation  and  their  offices.  The  most  influen- 
tial were  found  in  the  cabinet.  Members  of  the  Knesset  came  next. 
Elected  mayors  of  large  municipalities  such  as  Tel  Aviv,  Jerusa- 
lem, and  Haifa  had  considerable  importance  because  of  the  in- 
fluence of  local  politics  on  national-level  politics.  In  addition,  the 
president,  Supreme  Court  justices,  and  the  head  of  the  Office  of 
the  State  Comptroller  had  the  prestige  of  cabinet  members  although 
they  lacked  decision-making  responsibility. 

During  the  late  1980s,  the  criteria  for  entrance  into  the  top  elite 
were  more  open  and  competitive  than  previously.  Political  parties, 
and,  to  some  extent,  the  civil  service,  continued  to  be  the  prin- 
cipal vehicles  for  upward  mobility.  Under  the  country's  electoral 
system  of  proportional  representation,  participation  in  party  politics 


209 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

remained  essential  for  gaining  top  positions,  except  in  limited  cases 
of  co-optation  from  nonparty  circles,  principally  the  military.  In 
earlier  periods,  party  nominating  committees  primarily  determined 
a  politician's  entry  into  a  parliamentary  delegation;  in  the  1980s, 
internal  party  elections  increasingly  governed  this  decision.  This 
system  placed  a  high  premium  on  partisan  loyalty,  membership 
in  a  party  faction,  and  individual  competence. 

The  political  establishment,  whether  in  office  or  in  opposition, 
secularist  or  Orthodox,  left-wing  or  right-wing,  has  remained 
basically  loyal  to  the  state.  Establishment  interpretations  of  classi- 
cal Zionist  ideologies  have  varied  according  to  the  adherents'  diverse 
backgrounds  and  political  and  religious  orientations,  but  internal 
political  cleavages  have  not  undermined  the  essential  unity  of  Israeli 
society  and  political  institutions.  Except  for  certain  segments  among 
a  minority  of  extremist  right-wing  religious  or  secular  ultranation- 
alists,  most  Israeli  citizens  have  sought  to  maintain  democratic 
values  and  procedures;  their  differences  have  centered  mainly  on 
tactics  rather  than  on  the  goal  of  realizing  a  modern,  democratic, 
prosperous  social  welfare  state. 

Multiparty  System 

Political  power  in  Israel  has  been  contested  within  the  frame- 
work of  multiparty  competition.  Parliamentary  elections  are  held 
every  four  years,  and,  unlike  many  parliamentary  systems,  the  elec- 
torate votes  as  a  single  national  constituency.  Power  has  revolved 
around  the  system  of  government  by  coalition  led  by  one  of  the 
two  major  parties,  or  in  partnership  among  them.  From  the  estab- 
lishment of  Mapai  in  1930  until  the  1977  Knesset  elections,  Labor 
(and  its  predecessor,  Mapai)  was  the  dominant  party.  Labor's  defeat 
in  the  1977  Knesset  election,  however,  transformed  the  dominant 
party  system  into  a  multiparty  system  dominated  by  two  major 
parties,  Labor  and  Likud,  in  which  neither  was  capable  of  governing 
except  in  alliance  with  smaller  parties  or,  as  in  1984  and  1988,  in 
alliance  with  each  other. 

Since  1920,  when  the  first  Elected  Assembly  was  held,  no  party 
has  been  able  to  command  a  simple  majority  in  any  parliamen- 
tary election.  Israel  has  always  had  a  pluralistic  political  culture 
featuring  at  least  three  major  polarizing  social  and  political  ten- 
dencies: secular  left-of-center,  secular  right-of-center,  and  religious 
right-of-center.  No  single  tendency  was  dominant  in  the  1980s. 
Political  fragmentation,  as  marked  by  the  proliferation  of  parties, 
is  a  long-standing  feature  of  Israeli  society.  For  example,  in  the 
prestate  period,  between  1920  and  1944,  from  twelve  to  twenty- 
six  party  lists  were  represented  in  the  Elected  Assembly.  In  the 


210 


Government  and  Politics 


first  Knesset  election  in  1949,  twenty-four  political  parties  and 
groups  competed.  Since  then  the  number  has  fluctuated  as  a  result 
of  occasional  splits,  realignments,  and  mergers.  However,  domi- 
nance by  two  major  parties  and  a  multiplicity  of  smaller  parties 
remained  deeply  embedded  in  Israeli  political  culture  (for  details 
of  individual  political  parties,  see  Appendix  B). 

In  addition  to  political  operations,  party  functions  during  the 
prestate  period  included  "democratic  integration,"  that  is,  the  pro- 
vision of  social,  economic,  military,  and  cultural  services  for  party 
members  and  supporters.  During  the  postindependence  period, 
party  politics,  in  particular  regarding  competition  between  Labor 
and  Likud  and  their  respective  allies,  continued  to  be  vigorous. 
Many  analysts  saw  signs  of  a  political  crisis  looming  with  the  emer- 
gence of  extremist  minor  parties  and  extraparliamentary  protest 
movements  (e.g.,  Kach  and  Gush  Emunim).  These  groups  chal- 
lenged the  traditional  parties  on  such  issues  as  the  roles  of  the  state 
and  religion  and  the  future  territorial  boundaries  of  the  Jewish  state. 

Israel's  major  parties  originated  from  the  East  European  and 
Central  European  branches  of  the  WZO,  founded  by  Theodor 
Herzl  in  1897,  and  from  political  and  religious  groups  in  the  Man- 
date period.  For  example,  a  faction  called  the  Democratic  Zionists, 
including  among  its  members  Chaim  Weizmann,  Israel's  first  presi- 
dent, was  active  in  1900;  Mizrahi  (Spiritual  Center),  an  Ortho- 
dox religious  movement,  was  founded  in  1902;  and  the  non-Marxist 
Labor  Zionist  HaPoel  HaTzair  (The  Young  Worker),  was  estab- 
lished in  1905.  Aaron  David  Gordon,  the  latter  group's  spiritual 
leader,  was  instrumental  in  founding  the  first  kibbutz  and  moshav 
soon  after  the  party's  establishment  (see  Political  Zionism,  ch.  1). 
Moreover,  in  1906  the  Marxist  Poalei  Tziyyon  (Workers  of  Zion — 
see  Appendix  B)  was  created  to  initiate  a  socialist-inspired  class 
struggle  in  Palestine.  Ber  Borochov  was  its  ideological  mentor,  and 
Ben-Gurion  and  Ben-Zvi  were  among  its  founding  leaders. 
Vladimir  Jabotinsky  founded  the  right-wing  Revisionist  Party  in 
1925  to  oppose  what  he  considered  the  WZO  executive's  concilia- 
tory policy  toward  the  British  mandatory  government  and  toward 
the  pace  of  overall  Zionist  settlement  activity  in  Palestine. 

These  early,  formative  experiences  in  political  activity  produced 
three  major  alignments.  All  were  Zionist,  but  they  had  varying 
shades  of  secularism  and  religious  orthodoxy.  Two  of  the  align- 
ments were  secular  but  ideologically  opposed.  The  first  consisted 
of  leftist  or  socialist  labor  parties  of  which  Mapai,  founded  in  1930, 
was  the  dominant  party.  The  second  consisted  of  centrist-rightist 
parties;  Herut  (Freedom  Movement — see  Appendix  B),  founded 
in  1949,  the  Revisionist  Party's  successor  and  the  present  Likud's 


211 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

mainstay,  dominated  that  alignment.  Herut,  which  had  become 
part  of  Likud,  eventually  won  a  mandate  to  govern  in  1977  under 
Begin.  The  third  major  political  alignment  consisted  of  Orthodox 
religious  Zionists.  A  fourth  category  of  minor  Zionist  parties  also 
emerged,  traditionally  allied  with  one  of  the  two  major  alignments; 
non- Zionist  communist  Arab  or  nationalist  Arab  parties  constituted 
the  fifth  grouping. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  stated  values  of  Israeli  political  parties, 
including  religious,  communist,  Arab  nationalist,  and  mainstream 
parties,  could  not  properly  be  placed  on  the  left-right  or  liberal- 
conservative  spectrum  except,  perhaps,  on  the  issue  of  the  future 
of  the  occupied  territories.  The  positions  advocated  by  Labor, 
Likud,  Orthodox  religious  parties,  and  the  constellation  of  smaller 
parties  allied  to  them  have  varied  greatly.  On  the  extreme  left,  the 
most  anti-Western  element  in  Israeli  politics  was  Rakah  (New  Com- 
munist List — see  Appendix  B),  a  Moscow-oriented  group  with  a 
contingent  of  former  Sephardic  Black  Panther  activists  that  appealed 
to  Palestinian  Arab  nationalist  sentiment.  Of  the  long-established 
minor  parties,  the  moderate  left-of-center  Mapam  (formally 
Mifleget  Poalim  Meuchedet,  United  Workers'  Party — see  Appendix 
B),  which  from  1969  to  1984  constituted  a  faction  in  the  electoral 
alignment  with  Labor,  the  Citizens'  Rights  Movement  (see  Ap- 
pendix B),  and  Shinui  (Change — see  Appendix  B),  were  Labor's 
traditional  satellites.  Labor,  in  alignment  with  Mapam  from  1969 
until  1984,  favored  a  negotiated  settlement  concerning  the  occupied 
territories  involving  the  exchange  of  land  for  peace. 

On  the  center-right  of  the  political  spectrum  were  Likud  and  its 
satellite  parties,  Tehiya,  Tsomet,  and  Moledet.  On  the  fringe  right 
was  Kach,  which  the  Knesset  oudawed  in  1988  because  of  its  racist 
platform  that  wished  to  expel  all  Arabs  from  the  occupied  territo- 
ries. Likud,  especially  its  Herut  component,  favored  retaining  much 
of  the  occupied  territories  to  regain  what  it  considered  to  be  the 
ancient  boundaries  of  Eretz  Yisrael.  The  positions  of  the  religious 
parties — the  National  Religious  Party  (NRP — see  Appendix  B), 
Agudat  Israel,  Shas  (Sephardic  Torah  Guardians — see  Appendix 
B),  and  Degel  HaTorah  (Torah  Flag — see  Appendix  B) — generally 
coincided  with  the  right-of-center  parties,  although  the  NRP  trade- 
union  component  has  continued  its  alliance  with  Labor  in  the 
Histadrut. 

Israeli  parties  have  engaged  in  many  activities  even  in  nonelec- 
tion  years.  Indoctrination  of  young  people  has  been  important, 
although  in  the  case  of  the  Labor  Party  it  had  markedly  lessened 
in  the  1980s  in  comparison  to  the  prestate  period.  Political  parties 
retained  much  of  their  early  character  as  mutual  aid  societies. 


212 


Government  and  Politics 


Consequently,  voters  have  tended  to  support  the  country's  politi- 
cal parties  as  a  civic  duty.  Membership  in  a  registered  party  has 
not  been  a  requirement  for  voting,  but  formal  party  membership 
was  high  and  party  members  have  accounted  for  25  to  50  percent 
of  the  vote. 

Except  for  small  Arab  and  communist  groups,  Israeli  political 
parties  have  been  basically  Zionist  in  their  orientation.  Given  the 
shades  of  interpretation  inherent  in  Zionism,  parties  drew  their  sup- 
port from  adherents  who  might  be  secular,  religious,  or  anti- 
religious,  adherents  of  social  welfare  policies  or  free  enterprise  (the 
distinction  was  not  always  clear  because  Mapai/Labor  in  fact  created 
Israel's  capitalist  economy),  advocates  of  territorial  compromise 
or  territorial  expansion.  In  general,  attempts  to  organize  parties 
on  the  basis  of  ethnic  origin — for  example,  in  the  cases  of  Yemeni, 
Iraqi,  or  Moroccan  Jews — had  been  unsuccessful  until  the  early 
1980s,  when  the  Sephardi-based  Tami  (Traditional  Movement  of 
Israel — see  Appendix  B)  and  Shas  were  formed. 

With  the  exception  of  religious  parties,  Israeli  parties  possessed 
national  constituencies  but  also  engaged  in  politics  based  on  ter- 
ritorial subdivisions  and  local  interests.  Increasingly  during  the  late 
1980s,  local  party  branches  enjoyed  greater  independence  in  select- 
ing local  personalities  in  internal  party  nominations  for  mayoral, 
municipal  council,  Histadrut,  and  Knesset  elections,  as  well  as  their 
own  party's  central  committees  and  conventions.  This  indepen- 
dence resulted  in  part  from  the  growing  tendency  to  vote  on  the 
basis  of  individual  merit — mayoral  elections,  for  example,  reflected 
an  emerging  pattern  of  split-ticket  voting — rather  than  traditional 
party  loyalty.  This  trend,  if  sustained,  was  likely  to  lead  to  the  de- 
centralization of  party  control,  if  only  to  ensure  that  voters  will 
support  the  same  party  in  national  as  well  as  local  elections. 

Alignment  Parties 

Labor  Party 

Until  1977  Mapai  and  the  Labor  Party  dominated  the  political 
scene.  Labor  became  Israel's  dominant  party  as  a  result  of  its 
predecessors'  effective  and  modernizing  leadership  during  the 
formative  prestate  period  (1917-48).  The  Labor  Party  (see  Ap- 
pendix B)  resulted  in  1968  from  the  merger  of  Mapai,  Ahdut 
HaAvoda  (Unity  of  Labor — see  Appendix  B),  and  Rafi  (see  fig.  11). 
In  addition,  shortly  before  the  1969  elections  an  electoral  Align- 
ment (Maarakh)  occurred  between  Labor  and  the  smaller  Mapam 
Party.  Although  the  two  parties  retained  their  organizational 


213 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


214 


Government  and  Politics 


CC  > 

< 

O  i- 

CL 

m  cc 

< 

<  ^ 

_l  CL 

> 

l- 

LABOR  PAR 

(1984) 

APA 
1984 

2  — 

z 

LU 
UJ  2 

>  LU 
CO  > 
CO  O 

01  _l 
< 


LU  > 

DC 
Q_ 


3 

t 

CO 
CO 
I 

CO 


215 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


independence,  they  shared  a  common  slate  in  elections  to  the  Knes- 
set, the  Histadrut,  and  local  government  offices.  The  Alignment 
lasted  until  1984. 

Labor's  political  dominance  broke  down,  particularly  following 
the  June  1967  War,  when  the  party  split  over  its  leaders'  inability 
to  reach  a  consensus  concerning  the  future  of  the  West  Bank,  the 
Gaza  Strip,  and  the  Sinai  Peninsula;  there  was  agreement  only  on 
the  need  to  retain  the  Golan  Heights  to  ensure  strategic  depth 
against  Syria.  Later,  the  October  1973  War  dealt  a  blow  to  public 
confidence  in  Labor  from  which  its  leadership  was  unable  to  recover. 
The  war  also  exacerbated  a  number  of  crises  confronting  the  partv 
such  as  those  concerning  leadership  succession.  Although  the  party 
survived  the  Knesset  elections  of  December  31 .  1973,  with  a  slightly 
reduced  plurality,  the  war  led  to  the  resignation  of  Prime  Minister 
Meir's  government  on  April  10.  1974.  The  new  leadership  team 
of  Yitzhak  Rabin,  Shimon  Peres,  and  Yigal  Allon,  which  assumed 
power  in  June  1974,  proved  unable  to  govern  effectively  or  to  resolve 
major  issues  such  as  the  future  of  the  occupied  territories.  Follow- 
ing its  electoral  defeat  in  the  1977  Knesset  elections,  the  Labor  Party 
provided  the  principal  opposition  to  Likud  in  the  elections  of  1981 . 
1984,  and  1988.  In  the  1988  Knesset  elections,  the  Labor  Party, 
despite  its  efforts  to  present  a  revived  platform  advocating  territorial 
compromise,  gained  only  thirty-nine  seats,  down  from  fortv-four 
m  1984. 

In  1988  the  dominant  personalities  in  Labor,  in  addition  to  Peres 
and  Rabin,  included  former  president  Yitzhak  Navon.  former  IDF 
Chief  of  Staff  Moredechai  Gur,  and  former  Likud  Defense  Minister 
Ezer  Weizman,  who  joined  Labor  in  preparation  for  the  1984  elec- 
tions. Labor's  biggest  problem  in  the  1980s  has  been  the  gradual 
decline  in  its  electoral  support  among  growing  segments  in  the  elec- 
torate, notably  Orientals  and  the  young. 

Map  am 

A  moderate,  left-of-center  Labor  Zionist  party.  Map  am  has  had 
representatives  in  the  Knesset  since  the  inception  of  the  state;  it 
won  three  seats  in  the  November  1988  Knesset  elections.  Opposi- 
tion to  the  formation  of  the  unity  government  in  September  1984 
led  Mapam  to  withdraw  from  its  fifteen-year-long  electoral  align- 
ment with  Labor.  The  1988  Knesset  elections  represented  the  first 
time  in  twenty  years  that  Mapam  had  contested  an  election  indepen- 
dently. Mapam 's  top  leaders  included  the  party's  secretary  gen- 
eral, Elazar  Granot,  and  Knesset  member  Yair  Tzaban. 

Mapam  has  advocated  a  strong  national  security  and  defense 
posture,  with  many  of  its  members  playing  leading  roles  in  the  IDF. 


216 


Government  and  Politics 


At  the  same  time,  it  has  urged  continuing  peace  initiatives  and  ter- 
ritorial compromise,  and  has  opposed  the  permanent  annexation 
of  the  territories  occupied  in  the  June  1967  War  beyond  minimal 
border  changes  designed  to  provide  Israel  with  secure  and  defen- 
sible boundaries.  Mapam  has  long  believed  in  Jewish-Arab  coex- 
istence and  friendship  as  a  means  of  hastening  peace  between  Israel, 
the  Palestinians,  and  the  Arab  states. 

Citizens'  Rights  Movement  (CRM) 

Founded  in  1973  by  Shulamit  Aloni,  a  former  Labor  Party  Knes- 
set member,  the  CRM  has  played  an  active  role  in  calling  for 
strengthening  civil  rights  in  Israel,  particularly  regarding  issues  in- 
volving the  boundaries  between  the  state  and  religion,  and  in  ad- 
vocating a  peace  setdement  with  the  Palestinians  and  the  Arab  states 
based  on  territorial  compromise.  In  the  1988  Knesset  elections, 
the  party  increased  its  representation  to  five  seats,  compared  with 
three  in  1984.  The  party  has  traditionally  allied  itself  with  Labor, 
although  it  has  refused  to  join  Labor  in  unity  governments  with 
Likud.  The  CRM  received  considerable  support  from  the  coun- 
try's liberal  community,  and  prominent  among  its  leaders  were 
Knesset  members  Yossi  Sarid  (formerly  of  the  Labor  Party);  Ran 
Cohen,  a  high-ranking  reservist  in  the  IDF;  and  Mordechai  Bar- 
On  and  Dudy  Zucker,  leaders  of  the  Peace  Now  (see  Appendix  B) 
movement. 

Shinui  (Change) 

Founded  in  1977  by  Amnon  Rubenstein,  a  law  professor  at  Tel 
Aviv  University  and  a  columnist  for  Ha  'aretz,  Shinui  represented 
a  large  faction  in  the  Democratic  Movement  for  Change  (DMC). 
The  DMC  won  fifteen  seats  and  played  a  major  role  in  toppling 
the  Labor  Party  in  the  1977  Knesset  elections.  Within  less  than 
three  years,  however,  the  DMC  broke  up  over  the  issue  of  con- 
tinued participation  in  the  Likud  government.  During  the  next 
decade  Shinui  served  as  an  ally  of  Labor  and  was  a  leading  advo- 
cate for  constitutional  and  electoral  reform  and  greater  flexibility 
on  the  Palestinian  problem.  In  the  November  1988  elections, 
Shinui 's  Knesset  representation  declined  from  three  to  two  seats. 

The  Likud  Bloc 

In  the  ninth  Knesset  elections  in  May  1977,  the  center-right 
Likud  alliance  emerged  victorious  and  replaced  the  previously 
dominant  Labor  alignment  for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  in- 
dependent Israel.  The  Likud  Bloc,  founded  in  1973,  consisted  of 
the  Free  Center,  Herut  (Tnuat  HaHerut  or  Freedom  Movement — 


217 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


see  Appendix  B),  Laam  (For  the  Nation — see  Appendix  B),  and 
Gahal  (Freedom- Liberal  Bloc — see  Appendix  B).  In  large  part, 
Likud  was  the  direct  ideological  descendant  of  the  Revisionist 
Party,  established  by  Vladimir  Jabotinsky  in  1925  (see  Revisionist 
Zionism,  ch.  1). 

The  Revisionist  Party,  so  named  to  underscore  the  urgency  of 
revision  in  the  policies  of  the  WZO's  executive,  advocated  militancy 
and  ultranationalism  as  the  primary  political  imperatives  of  the 
Zionist  struggle  for  Jewish  statehood.  The  Revisionist  Party 
demanded  that  the  entire  mandated  territory  of  historical  Pales- 
tine on  both  sides  of  the  Jordan  River,  including  Transjordan,  im- 
mediately become  a  Jewish  state  with  a  Jewish  majority.  Revisionist 
objectives  clashed  with  the  policies  of  the  British  authorities,  Labor 
Zionists,  and  Palestinian  Arabs.  The  Revisionist  Party,  in  which 
Menachem  Begin  played  a  major  role,  contended  that  the  British 
must  permit  unlimited  Jewish  immigration  into  Palestine  and 
demanded  that  the  Jewish  Legion  be  reestablished  and  that  Jew- 
ish youths  be  trained  for  defense. 

The  Revisionist  Party  also  attacked  the  Histadrut,  whose  Labor 
Zionist  leadership  under  Ben-Gurion  was  synonymous  with  the 
leadership  of  the  politically  dominant  Mapai.  Ben-Gurion  accused 
the  revisionists  of  being  "fascists";  the  latter  countercharged  that 
the  policies  being  pursued  by  Ben-Gurion  and  his  Labor  Zionist 
allies,  including  Chaim  Weizmann,  were  so  conciliatory  toward 
the  British  authorities  and  Palestinian  Arabs  and  so  gradual  in  terms 
of  state-building  as  to  be  self-defeating. 

In  1933  the  Revisionist  Party  seceded  from  the  WZO  and  formed 
the  rival  New  Zionist  Organization.  After  1936  the  revisionists  re- 
jected British  and  official  Zionist  policies  of  restraint  in  the  face 
of  Arab  attacks,  and  they  formed  two  anti-British  and  anti-Arab 
guerrilla  groups.  One,  the  Irgun  Zvai  Leumi  (National  Military 
Organization,  Irgun  for  short)  was  formed  in  1937;  an  offshoot 
of  the  Irgun,  the  Stern  Gang  also  known  as  Lehi  (from  Lohamei 
Herut  Israel,  Fighters  for  Israel's  Freedom),  was  formed  in  1940 
(see  Historical  Background,  ch.  5).  These  revisionist  paramilitary 
groups  operated  independently  of,  and  at  times  in  conflict  with, 
the  official  Zionist  defense  organization,  the  Haganah;  they  en- 
gaged in  systematic  terror  and  sabotage  against  the  British  authori- 
ties and  the  Arabs. 

After  independence  Prime  Minister  Ben-Gurion  dissolved  the 
Irgun  and  other  paramilitary  organizations  such  as  Lehi  and  the 
Palmach  (see  Glossary).  In  1948  remnants  of  the  dissolved  Irgun 
created  Herut. 


218 


"WOULD  YOU  TRUST  HIM  (SHAMIR)  AS  A  SHIP  CAPTAIN?! 


November  1988  election  flyer  of  the  Young  Guard 
faction  of  the  Labor  Party.  The  flag  reads  "Annexed!" 

In  the  mid-1960s,  Herut  took  steps  to  broaden  its  political  base 
and  attain  greater  legitimacy.  In  1963  it  established  the  Blue-White 
(Tehelet-Lavan)  faction  to  contest  the  previously  boycotted 
Histadrut  elections.  In  1965  Herut  and  the  Liberal  Party  (see 
Appendix  B)  formed  Gahal  (Gush  Herut-Liberalim),  a  parliamen- 
tary and  electoral  bloc,  to  contest  both  Knesset  and  Histadrut  elec- 
tions. The  final  step  in  gaining  greater  political  legitimacy  occurred 
just  before  the  outbreak  of  the  June  1967  War,  when  Begin  and 
his  Gahal  associates  agreed  to  join  the  government  to  demonstrate 
internal  Israeli  unity  in  response  to  an  external  threat. 

Gahal  continued  as  part  of  the  Meir  cabinet  formed  after  the 
1969  elections.  Gahal  ministers  withdrew  from  the  cabinet  in  1970 
to  protest  what  they  believed  to  be  Prime  Minister  Meir's  concilia- 
tory policy  on  territorial  issues  (see  Foreign  Relations,  this  ch.). 
In  the  summer  of  1973,  Gahal  organized  the  Likud  alignment  in 
which  Herut  continued  to  be  preeminent. 

In  the  November  1988  elections,  Likud  lost  one  Knesset  seat. 
Nevertheless,  observers  believed  that  demographic  indicators  fa- 
vored continued  support  for  Likud  and  its  right-wing  allies  among 
young  people  and  Orientals. 

The  most  prominent  leaders  of  Likud  in  1988,  as  in  previous 
years,  were  members  of  its  Herut  faction.  They  included  Prime 
Minister  Shamir;  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  Moshe  Arens,  a  likely 


219 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

successor  to  Shamir  as  leader  of  Herut;  Deputy  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  of  Housing  David  Levi,  the  chief  Sephardic  political 
figure;  Minister  of  Commerce  and  Industry  Ariel  Sharon;  and 
Deputy  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  Benjamin  Netanyahu. 

Religious  Parties 

Israel's  religious  parties  were  originally  organized  not  to  seize 
the  reins  of  power,  but  rather  to  engage  in  what  American  scholar 
Norman  L.  Zucker  has  called  "theopolitics" — to  gain  theological 
ends  by  means  of  political  activity.  From  the  Orthodox  viewpoint, 
Israel  remained  an  imperfect  state  as  long  as  secular  rather  than 
religiously  observant  Jews  constituted  a  majority.  As  of  1988,  policy 
issues  concerning  religious  parties  included  the  question  of ' '  Who 
is  a  Jew,"  maintaining  Orthodox  rabbinical  control  over  marriage 
and  divorce,  increasing  sabbath  observance,  observing  kosher 
dietary  regulations,  maintaining  and  expanding  the  state  religious 
education  systems,  ensuring  the  exemption  of  religious  women  and 
ultra-Orthodox  men  from  military  service,  and  such  social  issues 
as  abortion. 

Despite  the  minority  position  of  adherents  of  Orthodox  Juda- 
ism, several  factors  have  enabled  this  religious  bloc  to  maintain 
a  central  role  in  the  state.  Such  factors  have  included  the  links  be- 
tween Judaism  and  Israeli  nationalism;  the  political  and  organiza- 
tional power  of  the  religious  parties — particularly  the  NRP  and 
later  Agudat  Israel  and  Shas — in  assuming  a  pivotal  role  in  the 
formation  and  maintenance  of  coalition  governments;  and  the  in- 
ability of  the  Reform  and  Conservative  Jewish  religious  movements, 
although  powerful  in  the  Jewish  Diaspora,  to  penetrate  effectively 
Israel's  religious  administrative  apparatus.  This  apparatus  consisted 
particularly  of  the  Ministry  of  Religious  Affairs,  the  Chief  Rab- 
binate, the  Chief  Rabbinical  Council,  and  local  religious  councils. 
The  Reform  and  Conservative  movements  played  a  minor  role  in 
Zionism  during  the  prestate  period  and  thus  allowed  the  Ortho- 
dox to  dominate  religious  activities  in  the  new  state.  Among  the 
Orthodox  there  were  varying  forms  of  religious  observance  in 
accordance  with  halakah.  The  main  division  was  between  the  ultra- 
Orthodox,  who  rejected  Zionism  and  were  associated  with  Agudat 
Israel  and  Shas,  and  the  modern  Orthodox,  who  attempted  to  recon- 
cile Zionism  and  religious  orthodoxy  and  were  associated  with  the 
NRP. 

Taken  together,  Israel's  religious  parties  have  over  the  years 
generally  commanded  from  fifteen  to  eighteen  seats  in  the  Knes- 
set, or  about  12  to  15  percent  of  the  Knesset.  On  occasion  they 
have  formed  religious  coalitions  of  their  own,  such  as  the  United 


220 


Government  and  Politics 


Religious  Front  (see  Appendix  B)  and  the  Torah  Religious  Front 
(see  Appendix  B).  The  voter  strength  of  the  religious  parties,  par- 
ticularly the  NRP,  made  them  ideal  coalition  partners  for  the  two 
major  blocs.  Because  neither  bloc  has  ever  been  able  to  achieve 
a  majority  in  the  Knesset,  the  potentially  pivotal  position  of  the 
religious  parties  has  given  them  disproportionate  political  power. 
One  of  the  greatest  shocks  of  the  1988  Knesset  elections  was  the 
surprising  increase  in  strength  of  the  Orthodox  and  ultra-Orthodox 
parties,  which  went  from  thirteen  to  eighteen  Knesset  seats. 

National  Religious  Party 

The  National  Religious  Party,  Israel's  largest  religious  party, 
resulted  in  1956  from  the  merger  of  its  two  historical  antecedents, 
Mizrahi  (Spiritual  Center — see  Appendix  B)  and  HaPoel  HaMiz- 
rahi  (Spiritual  Center  Worker — see  Appendix  B).  The  NRP  (as 
Mizrahi  prior  to  1956)  has  participated  in  every  coalition  govern- 
ment since  independence.  Invariably  the  Ministry  of  Religious 
Affairs,  as  well  as  the  Ministry  of  Interior,  have  been  headed  by 
Knesset  members  nominated  by  this  party. 

Although  the  NRP  increased  from  four  to  five  Knesset  seats  in 
the  1988  elections,  it  had  not  fully  recovered  from  major  political 
and  electoral  setbacks  suffered  in  the  1981  and  1984  elections.  In 
those  elections,  much  of  its  previous  electoral  support  shifted  to 
right-wing  religio-nationalist  parties.  As  a  sign  of  its  attempted 
recovery,  in  July  1986  the  NRP  held  its  first  party  convention  since 
1973.  The  long  interval  separating  the  two  conventions  was  caused 
by  factional  struggles  between  the  younger  and  the  veteran  leader- 
ship groups.  In  the  1986  convention,  the  NRP's  second  genera- 
tion of  leaders,  members  of  the  Youth  Faction,  officially  took  over 
the  party's  institutions  and  executive  bodies.  The  new  NRP  leader 
was  Knesset  member  Zevulun  Hammer,  former  minister  of  edu- 
cation and  culture  in  the  Likud  cabinet  (1977-84)  and  secre- 
tary general  of  the  party  (1984-86).  In  1986  Hammer  succeeded 
long-time  member  Yosef  Burg  as  minister  of  religious  affairs  in 
the  National  Unity  Government.  Hammer  and  Yehuda  Ben- 
Meir,  coleader  of  the  Youth  Faction  until  1984,  were  among  the 
founders  of  Gush  Emunim  in  1974  (see  Extraparliamentary  Religio- 
Nationalist  Movements,  this  ch.).  Both  leaders  somewhat  moder- 
ated their  views  on  national  security,  territorial,  and  settlement 
issues  following  Israel's  1982  invasion  of  Lebanon,  but  the  NRP's 
declining  political  and  electoral  position  and  the  increasing  radicali- 
zation  of  its  religiously  based  constituency  led  to  a  reversal  in  Ham- 
mer's views.  As  a  result,  in  the  1986  party  convention  the  Youth 
Faction  helped  incorporate  into  the  NRP  the  religio-nationalist 


221 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Morasha  (Heritage),  which  was  led  by  Rabbi  Chaim  Druckman 
and  held  two  seats  in  the  Knesset.  In  return,  Rabbi  Yitzhak  Levi, 
the  third  candidate  on  the  Morasha  Knesset  list,  became  the  NRP's 
new  secretary  general.  Moroccan-born  Levi  has  been  a  fervent  sup- 
porter of  Gush  Emunim  and  an  advocate  of  incorporating  the  West 
Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip  into  a  greater  Israel. 

Until  the  1986  party  convention,  the  dominant  faction  in  the 
NRP  was  LaMifneh  (To  the  Turning  Point).  The  center-most  fac- 
tion, LaMifneh  advocated  greater  pragmatism  and  ideological 
pluralism.  Burg,  a  Knesset  member  since  1949,  who  had  held  a 
variety  of  cabinet  portfolios  including  interior  (1974-84)  and  reli- 
gious affairs  (1982-86),  led  LaMifneh.  Burg  and  Rafael  Ben-Natan, 
former  party  organization  strongman,  were  responsible  for  main- 
taining the  "historical  partnership"  with  the  Labor  Party  that  offi- 
cially ended  in  1977,  but  continued  in  some  municipal  councils 
and  in  the  Histadrut. 

In  the  1988  internal  party  elections,  the  NRP  took  a  number 
of  steps  to  regain  the  support  of  segments  of  the  Oriental  Ortho- 
dox electorate  that  were  lost  to  Tami  in  1981  and,  to  a  lesser  ex- 
tent, to  Shas  in  1988.  The  party  also  sought  to  regain  the  support 
of  right-wing  religious  ultranationalists.  In  the  internal  party  elec- 
tions, the  NRP  nominated  Moroccan-born  Avner  Sciaki  for  the 
top  spot  on  its  Knesset  list,  Zevulun  Hammer  for  the  second  posi- 
tion, and  Hanan  Porat,  a  leader  of  Gush  Emunim  and  formerly 
of  Tehiya,  in  the  third  spot.  As  a  result  of  these  steps,  the  NRP 
attained  greater  ideological  homogeneity  and  competed  with  Tehiya 
and  Kach  for  the  electoral  support  of  the  right-wing  ultranation- 
alist  religious  community. 

Agudat  Israel 

During  the  prestate  period,  Agudat  Israel,  founded  in  1912,  op- 
posed both  the  ideology  of  Zionism  and  its  political  expression,  the 
World  Zionist  Organization.  It  rejected  any  cooperation  with  non- 
Orthodox  Jewish  groups  and  considered  Zionism  profane  in  that 
it  forced  the  hand  of  the  Almighty  in  bringing  about  the  redemp- 
tion of  the  Jewish  people.  A  theocratic  and  clericalist  party,  Agudat 
Israel  has  exhibited  intense  factionalism  and  religious  extremism. 
From  1955  to  1961  Agudat  Israel  formed  a  part  of  the  Torah  Reli- 
gious Front  (see  Appendix  B).  Traditionally,  the  party's  Knesset 
delegation  has  consisted  only  of  Ashkenazi  factions,  although  ultra- 
Orthodox  Orientals  also  provided  it  considerable  electoral  support. 

In  preparation  for  the  1984  Knesset  elections,  grievances  over 
a  lack  of  representation  in  party  institutions  caused  Orientals  to 
defect  and  establish  Shas.  As  a  result,  Agudat  Israel's  Knesset 


222 


Government  and  Politics 


representation  declined  from  four  to  two  seats.  In  the  1988  Knes- 
set elections,  as  part  of  an  ultra-Orthodox  electoral  upswing,  the 
Shas  Knesset  delegation  increased  from  two  to  six  seats. 

The  Council  of  Torah  Sages,  a  panel  of  rabbis  to  which  both 
religious  and  secular  decisions  had  to  be  referred,  contained 
representatives  of  each  faction  in  Agudat  Israel.  The  main  factions 
represented  two  Hasidic  (ultra-Orthodox)  courts:  the  court  of  the 
Rabbi  of  Gur,  which  dominated  the  party  and  the  Council  of  Torah 
Sages;  and  the  court  of  Rabbi  Eliezer  Shakh. 

Agudat  Israel  engaged  in  ultra-Orthodox  educational  and  so- 
cial welfare  activities,  as  well  as  in  immigrant  absorption.  It  usually 
took  the  lead  in  initiating  legislation  on  religious  issues.  The  party 
has  obtained  exemptions  from  military  service  for  its  adherents. 

Shas 

Shas  resulted  in  1984  from  allegations  of  Agudat  Israel's  inade- 
quate representation  of  ultra-Orthodox  Sephardim  in  the  Council 
of  Torah  Sages,  the  party  organization,  and  educational  and  so- 
cial welfare  institutions.  The  leader  of  Shas  was  Rabbi  Yitzhak 
Peretz,  who  served  as  minister  of  interior  in  the  National  Unity 
Government  until  his  protest  resignation  in  1987.  As  a  theocratic 
party,  Shas  depended  heavily  for  policy  direction  on  its  patrons, 
former  Sephardic  Chief  Rabbi  Ovadia  Yoseph,  and  Rabbi  Eliezer 
Shakh,  former  Ashkenazi  head  of  the  Agudat  Israel-dominated 
Council  of  Torah  Sages.  Rabbi  Shakh  sanctioned  the  formation 
of  Shas  and  its  division  into  separate  Sephardi  and  Ashkenazi  fac- 
tions. In  the  negotiations  to  form  the  National  Unity  Government 
in  1984,  Shas  outmaneuvered  the  NRP  and  gained  the  Ministry 
of  Interior  portfolio.  As  minister  of  interior,  Rabbi  Peretz  became 
a  source  of  controversy  as  a  result  of  his  promoting  religious  fun- 
damentalism in  general  and  the  narrow  partisan  interests  of  Shas 
in  particular. 

Unlike  Agudat  Israel,  Shas  saw  no  contradiction  between  its  re- 
ligious beliefs  and  Zionism.  It  was  far  more  anti-Arab  than  Agudat 
Israel  and  sought  increased  representation  for  its  adherents  in  all 
government  bodies,  in  Zionist  institutions,  and  in  the  Jewish 
Agency.  Despite  its  ethnic  homogeneity,  Shas  was  not  immune  from 
bitter  infighting  over  the  spoils  of  office,  as  shown  by  the  rivalry 
between  factions  led  by  Rabbi  Peretz  and  Rabbi  Arieh  Dari,  leader 
of  the  party's  apparatus,  who  remained  director  general  of  the 
Ministry  of  Interior  until  the  National  Unity  Government's  term 
ended  in  1988.  Shas  gained  four  Knesset  seats  in  the  1984  elec- 
tions and  increased  the  size  of  its  delegation  to  six  in  1988.  In  late 


223 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

1988,  it  actually  held  eight  Knesset  seats  when  combined  with  the 
two  seats  gained  by  Degel  HaTorah,  a  Shas  Ashkenazi  faction 
formed  in  1988. 

Central  Religious  Camp 

In  1988  Rabbi  Yehuda  Amital  of  Jerusalem  formed  a  new  moder- 
ate religious  party,  the  Central  Religious  Camp,  in  an  attempt  to 
counteract  the  growing  popularity  of  right-wing  ultranationalist 
religious  parties.  Rabbi  Tovah  Lichtenstein  had  the  second  posi- 
tion on  the  party's  Knesset  list.  The  party  failed,  however,  to  gain 
the  minimum  1  percent  of  votes  required  for  Knesset  representation. 

Right-Wing  Ultranationalist  Parties 

Tehiya  (Renaissance — see  Appendix  B),  an  ultranationalist 
party,  arose  in  1979  in  reaction  to  NRP  and  Likud  support  for 
the  1978  Camp  David  Accords  and  the  1979  Treaty  of  Peace  Be- 
tween Egypt  and  Israel.  The  party  consisted  of  religious  and  secu- 
lar leaders  and  activists  of  Gush  Emunim  and  the  Land  of  Israel 
Movement.  The  leaders  and  parliamentary  representatives  of 
Tehiya  were  Yuval  Neeman,  party  chairman  and  former  minister 
of  science  and  technology  in  the  Likud-led  cabinet  (1981-84);  Geula 
Cohen,  formerly  of  Herut;  Rabbi  Eliezer  Waldman,  head  of  the 
Kiryat  Arba  Yeshiva;  Gershon  Shafet;  and  Kiryat  Arba's  ultra- 
nationalist  attorney  Eliakim  Haetzni.  Former  IDF  Chief  of  Staff 
Rafael  Eitan  ranked  among  the  party's  leaders  until  1984,  when 
he  left  to  form  his  own  list,  Tsomet.  Tehiya' s  platform  advocated 
the  eventual  imposition  of  Israeli  sovereignty  over  the  West  Bank 
and  the  Gaza  Strip  and  the  transfer  of  the  Palestinian  inhabitants 
of  these  territories  to  Arab  countries.  In  the  1984  elections,  Tehiya 
gained  five  Knesset  seats,  an  increase  of  two  from  1981.  In  1988, 
however,  Tehiya  lost  two  seats  to  the  newly  formed  Tsomet  and 
Moledet  parties. 

Tsomet  (Crossroads)  was  an  extreme  right-wing  ultranationalist 
party  founded  in  1984  by  Eitan.  It  gained  two  seats  in  the  1988 
Knesset  elections. 

Moledet  (Homeland)  ran  in  1988  on  an  extremist  platform  ad- 
vocating the  forcible  "transfer"  of  Palestinian  Arabs  from  the  West 
Bank  to  Arab  states.  Led  by  retired  IDF  General  Rehavam 
(Ghandi)  Zeevi,  the  party  won  two  seats  in  the  1988  Knesset 
elections. 

Kach  (Thus),  another  ultranationalist  party,  came  into  being 
around  Rabbi  Meir  Kahane,  an  American-born  right-wing  Ortho- 
dox extremist.  Characterized  as  an  internal  dictatorship  under 
Kahane,  Kach  has  advocated  the  forcible  expulsion  of  Arabs  from 


224 


Government  and  Politics 


Israel  and  the  occupied  territories,  followed  by  the  imposition  of 
Israeli  sovereignty  there.  A  number  of  second-echelon  party  leaders 
have  been  implicated  in  Kach- supported  terrorist  activities.  A  ter- 
rorist attack  on  a  bus  carrying  Arab  passengers  on  Mount  Hebron, 
near  the  town  of  Hebron,  caused  the  imprisonment  of  Yehuda 
Richter,  in  second  place  on  the  Kach  Knesset  list.  Avner  Ozen, 
number  four  on  Kach's  1984  list,  was  also  imprisoned  on  terrorist 
charges.  To  counteract  Kach's  inflammatory  political  activities, 
in  1988  Likud  and  the  Citizens'  Rights  Movement  succeeded  in 
passing  a  Basic  Law  empowering  the  Central  Elections  Board  to 
prohibit  a  party  advocating  racism  from  contesting  parliamentary 
elections  in  Israel  and  Kach  was  outlawed  from  participating  in 
the  November  1988  elections.  Kach,  largely  funded  by  American 
supporters,  had  gained  one  seat  in  the  1984  elections  after  several 
earlier  unsuccessful  attempts  to  enter  the  Knesset. 

Extraparliamentary  Religio-Nationalist  Movements 

Gush  Emunim  (Bloc  of  the  Faithful),  a  right-wing  ultranation- 
alist,  religio-political  revitalization  movement,  was  formed  in  March 
1974  in  the  aftermath  of  the  October  1973  War.  The  younger  gener- 
ation of  NRP  leaders  who  constituted  the  party's  new  religious  elite 
created  Gush  Emunim.  Official  links  between  Gush  Emunim  and 
the  Youth  Faction  of  the  National  Religious  Party  were  severed 
following  the  NRP's  participation  in  the  June  1974  Labor-led  coa- 
lition government,  but  close  unofficial  links  between  the  two  groups 
continued.  Gush  Emunim  also  maintained  links  to  Tehiya  and  fac- 
tions in  the  Herut  wing  of  Likud. 

The  major  activity  of  Gush  Emunim  has  been  to  initiate  Jewish 
settlements  in  the  West  Bank  and  in  the  Gaza  Strip.  From  1977 
to  1984,  Likud  permitted  the  launching  of  a  number  of  Jewish  set- 
tlements beyond  the  borders  of  the  Green  Line  (see  Glossary).  The 
Likud  regime  gave  Gush  Emunim  the  active  support  of  govern- 
ment departments,  the  army,  and  the  WZO,  which  recognized  it 
as  an  official  settlement  movement  and  allocated  it  considerable 
funds  for  settlement  activities. 

A  thirteen-member  secretariat  has  governed  Gush  Emunim.  A 
special  conference  elected  nine  of  the  group's  secretaries  and 
co-opted  the  other  four  from  the  leadership  ranks  of  its  affiliated 
organizations.  Four  persons  have  managed  the  movement's  day- 
to-day  affairs:  Rabbi  Moshe  Levinger,  a  founder  of  Gush  Emunim 
and  the  leader  of  the  Jewish  town  of  Kiryat  Arba,  near  Hebron, 
on  the  West  Bank;  Hanan  Porat,  a  founder  of  the  organization 
and  a  former  Tehiya  Knesset  member  who  later  rejoined  the 
NRP;  Uri  Elitzur,  secretary  general  of  Amana,  Gush  Emunim's 


225 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


settlement  movement;  and  Yitzhak  Armoni,  secretary  general  of 
Gush  Emunim  since  September  1988.  From  1984  to  August  1988, 
American-born  Daniella  Weiss  served  as  Gush  Emunim' s  secre- 
tary general. 

Amana  was  Gush  Emunim 's  settlement  arm.  The  Council  of 
Settlements  in  Judea  and  Samaria  (Yesha),  chaired  by  Israel  Harel, 
was  the  political  organization  representing  the  majority  of  Jewish 
settlements  in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip.  There  were  more 
than  eighty  such  settlements,  including  those  affiliated  with  non- 
religious  parties.  Yesha  dealt  primarily  with  practical  matters,  such 
as  the  utilization  of  land  and  water,  relations  with  Israeli  military 
authorities  and,  if  necessary,  mobilizing  political  pressure  on  the 
government.  Yesha  has  created  affiliations  between  Gush  Emu- 
nim settlements  and  Labor,  the  NRP,  and  Herut's  Betar  youth 
movement.  Two  factors  shape  Yesha,  a  democratically  elected  po- 
litical organization:  the  right-wing  and  ultranationalist  views  of  its 
members  and  its  political  dependency  on  external  bodies  such  as 
government  agencies.  The  group  had  five  councils  in  Israel  proper 
and  six  regional  councils  in  the  occupied  territories. 

Arab  Parties 

Israel's  approximately  781,350  Arabs,  constituting  about  17.8 
percent  of  the  population,  articulated  their  views  through  elected 
officials  on  the  municipal  and  national  levels  and  through  the  Arab 
departments  within  governmental  ministries  and  nongovernmen- 
tal institutions  such  as  the  Histadrut.  In  the  past,  most  elected  Arab 
officials  traditionally  affiliated  with  the  Labor  Party  and  its  predeces- 
sors, which  expected — erroneously  as  time  has  proved — that  Israeli 
Arabs  would  serve  as  a  "bridge"  in  creating  peace  among  Israeli 
Jews,  the  Palestinians,  and  the  Arab  world.  Beginning  in  the 
mid-1970s  and  throughout  the  1980s,  increasing  numbers  of  Arab 
voters,  especially  younger  ones,  asserted  themselves  through  or- 
ganizations calling  for  greater  protection  of  minority  rights  and  the 
resolution  of  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict.  Generally,  Israeli  Arabs  re- 
mained attached  to  their  religious,  cultural,  and  political  values, 
but  their  ethnic  homogeneity  has  not  necessarily  resulted  in  politi- 
cal cohesion.  Internal  fissures  among  Christians,  Sunni  Muslims, 
and  Druzes,  Negev  beduins  and  Galilee  Arabs,  and  communist 
and  noncommunist  factions  have  made  it  difficult  for  them  to  act 
as  a  single  pressure  group  in  dealing  with  Israel's  Jewish  majority. 

In  1988,  despite  their  natural  sympathy  for  the  year-long  upris- 
ing by  their  fellow  Palestinians  in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza 
Strip,  Israeli  Arabs  continued  to  be  active  participants  in  the  Israeli 
electoral  system.  They  increased  their  share  in  the  total  1988  Knesset 


226 


Government  and  Politics 


vote  to  more  than  10  percent  of  the  electorate,  and  the  voting  per- 
centage among  those  eligible  to  participate  was  approximately  74 
percent,  as  compared  to  80  percent  for  Jewish  voters.  Israeli  Arabs 
increased  their  voting  support  for  Arab  lists  from  50  percent  in  1 984 
to  60  percent  in  1988. 

As  of  1988,  Rakah  (New  Communist  List),  a  predominantly 
Arab  communist  party,  continued  to  adhere  to  the  official  Soviet 
line,  yet  explicitly  recognized  Israel's  right  to  exist  within  its 
pre-1967  borders.  Rakah  succeeded  Poalei  Tziyyon,  part  of  which 
split  off  in  1921  and  became  the  Communist  Party  of  Palestine. 
In  1948  it  became  the  Communist  Party  of  Israel,  Miflaga 
Komunistit  Yisraelit,  known  as  Maki  (see  Appendix  B),  and  in 
1965  it  split  into  two  factions:  Rakah  with  mainly  Arab  member- 
ship, and  Maki,  with  mainly  Jewish  membership.  In  1977  Maki 
and  several  other  groups  created  Shelli  (acronym  for  Peace  for  Israel 
and  Equality  for  Israel),  which  disbanded  before  the  1984  elections. 
In  the  November  1988  elections,  Rakah  maintained  its  relatively 
constant  share  of  40  percent  of  the  total  Arab  vote  and  four  Knes- 
set seats.  In  1988  the  party's  secretary  general  was  Meir  Vilner, 
a  veteran  Israeli  communist. 

Within  the  Israeli  Arab  community,  Rakah' s  strongest  challenges 
came  from  two  more  radical  parties,  the  Palestinian  nationalist  Sons 
of  the  Village,  which  had  no  Knesset  seats,  and  the  Progressive 
National  Movement.  The  Progressive  National  Movement,  also 
known  as  the  Progressive  List  for  Peace,  came  into  being  in  1984. 
Its  platform  advocated  recognition  of  the  PLO  and  the  establish- 
ment of  a  Palestinian  state  in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip. 
In  the  November  1988  elections,  the  party,  led  by  Muhammad 
Muari,  received  about  15  percent  of  the  Arab  vote;  its  Knesset  dele- 
gation declined  to  one  from  the  1984  level  of  two. 

The  Arab  Democratic  Party,  founded  in  early  1988  by  Abdul 
Wahab  Daroushe,  a  former  Labor  Party  Knesset  member,  gained 
about  12  percent  of  the  total  Arab  vote  and  one  seat  in  the  Novem- 
ber 1988  Knesset  elections.  In  a  March  1988  interview,  Daroushe 
acknowledged  that  his  resignation  from  the  Labor  Party  resulted 
from  the  Palestinian  uprising  in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip 
and  the  "diminishing  choices"  open  to  Israeli  Arab  politicians 
affiliated  with  the  government  and  yet  tied  to  the  Arab  communi- 
ty by  a  sense  of  shared  ethnic  identity.  Echoing  the  sentiments  of 
other  Israeli  Arabs,  Daroushe  has  stated  that  "The  PLO  is  the  sole 
legitimate  representative  of  the  Palestinians"  living  outside  Israel's 
pre-1967  borders. 

Interest  Groups 

Major  interest  groups  in  Israel  influencing  the  formulation  of 


227 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


public  policy  have  included  the  politically  powerful  Histadrut,  the 
kibbutzim,  and  the  moshavim,  all  of  which  were  affiliated  with  or 
represented  in  most  of  the  political  parties.  Reportedly,  one  of  the 
main  reasons  for  Labor  to  join  the  National  Unity  Government 
in  1988  was  the  opportunity  for  Peres,  as  minister  of  finance  and 
chairman  of  the  Knesset's  Finance  Committee,  to  bail  out  the 
Histadrut,  the  kibbutzim,  and  the  moshavim,  which  were  billions 
of  dollars  in  debt. 

As  of  the  late  1980s,  other  economically  oriented  interest  groups 
included  employer  organizations  and  artisan  and  retail  merchant 
associations.  In  addition,  there  were  major  groups  concerned  with 
promoting  civil  rights,  such  as  the  Association  for  Civil  Rights  in 
Israel  and  the  Association  for  Beduin  Rights  in  Israel.  Numbered 
among  groups  concerned  with  political  issues  such  as  the  West  Bank 
and  the  Gaza  Strip,  were  movements  such  as  Peace  Now  and  Gush 
Emunim. 

Furthermore,  Diaspora  Jewry  might  be  considered,  in  the  words 
of  Canadian  scholar  Michael  Brecher,  an  externally  based  foreign 
policy  interest  group.  In  the  late  1980s,  Diaspora  Jewry,  and  es- 
pecially American  Jewry,  had  become  increasingly  critical  of  Israeli 
government  policy,  particularly  over  the  handling  of  the  West  Bank 
and  the  Gaza  Strip,  and  issues  concerning  religion  and  the  state. 

Prospects  for  Electoral  Reform 

The  structural  crisis  facing  the  Israeli  political  system  has  been 
attributed  to  a  number  of  factors.  Such  factors  include  the  absence 
of  a  written  constitution  that  provides  for  the  separation  of  state  and 
religion  and  safeguards  the  rights  of  the  individual.  Another  factor 
often  cited  is  the  country's  inability  to  form  effective  coalition  govern- 
ments and  cabinets — a  phenomenon  caused  by  a  breakdown  of  the 
dominant  party  system  and  the  resulting  inability  of  any  one  major 
party  to  garner  a  parliamentary  majority.  As  a  consequence,  in  form- 
ing coalitions  each  major  party  has  had  to  depend  heavily  on  smaller 
parties  bent  on  promoting  their  own  narrow  interests. 

Various  reforms  have  been  proposed  to  blunt  the  disruptive  role 
of  minor  parties.  One  suggestion  is  to  change  the  electoral  system 
of  pure  proportional  representation  by  raising  the  minimum  per- 
centage threshold  required  to  obtain  a  Knesset  seat.  One  of  the 
most  comprehensive  studies  of  this  problem,  The  Political  System  in 
Israel:  Proposals  for  Change,  edited  by  Baruch  Zisar,  argues  that  the 
negative  features  of  the  Israeli  electoral  system  have  so  far  out- 
weighed its  positive  attributes.  The  study  concludes  that  individ- 
ual district  constituencies  may  offer  Israel  the  best  form  of  electoral 
representation. 


228 


Government  and  Politics 

Following  the  stalemated  results  of  the  November  1988  Knesset 
elections,  a  committee  composed  of  representatives  of  the  two  major 
parties  was  set  up  to  study  changes  in  the  proportional  representa- 
tion system.  In  a  newspaper  interview,  Shimon  Peres  admitted  that 
"The  democratic  system  in  Israel  has  reached  a  point  in  which 
it  has  begun  to  be  ineffective  and  a  change  is  demanded  in  the  elec- 
toral system." 

Civil-Military  Relations 

The  supremacy  of  civilian  authorities  over  the  military  has  rarely 
been  challenged  in  Israel's  history.  The  Lavon  affair  of  1954  re- 
mains the  major  exception  (see  The  Emergence  of  the  IDF,  ch.  1). 
Factors  weighing  against  military  interference  have  included  the 
prohibition  on  active  officers  engaging  in  politics  and  the  popula- 
tion's broad  support  for  the  nonpartisan  behavior  of  the  armed 
forces.  Given  the  ever-present  external  threat  to  Israeli  security, 
however,  the  military  looms  large  in  everyday  life.  This  has  led 
some  foreign  observers  to  call  Israel  a  "garrison  democracy."  The 
military  has  also  served  as  a  channel  into  politics,  with  political 
activity  providing  a  "second  career"  for  retired  or  reservist  officers 
after  they  complete  their  military  careers,  usually  between  the  ages 
of  forty  and  fifty.  This  phenomenon  has  left  its  mark  on  Israeli 
politics  as  high-ranking  retired  or  reservist  IDF  figures  have  often 
"parachuted"  into  the  leadership  ranks  of  political  parties  and  pub- 
lic institutions. 

The  most  frequent  instances  of  this  tendency  have  occurred  dur- 
ing the  demobilization  of  officers  in  postwar  periods,  for  example, 
following  the  1948,  1967,  and  1973  wars.  Until  the  June  1967  War, 
the  great  majority  of  reservist  or  retired  officers  joined  Labor's 
ranks.  In  the  1950s,  the  first  generation  of  such  officers  included 
Moshe  Dayan,  Yigal  Allon,  Yigal  Yadin,  Israel  Galilee,  and  Chaim 
Herzog.  After  1967,  the  number  of  such  officers  co-opted  into  the 
political  elite  rose  sharply,  with  many  for  the  first  time  joining 
center-right  parties.  Among  those  joining  the  Labor  Party  were 
Yitzhak  Rabin,  Haim  Bar- Lev  {bar,  son  of — see  Glossary),  Aha- 
ron Yariv,  and  Meir  Amit.  Ezer  Weizman,  Ariel  (Arik)  Sharon, 
Mordechai  Zipori,  and  Shlomo  Lahat  joined  Likud.  Despite  their 
widespread  participation  in  politics,  these  ex-military  officers  have 
not  formed  a  distinct  pressure  group.  The  armed  forces  have  gener- 
ally remained  shielded  from  partisan  politics.  The  only  possible 
exception  was  the  IDF's  military  action  in  Lebanon  in  June  1982, 
which  disregarded  the  cabinet's  decision  on  the  limits  of  the  ad- 
vance. The  invasion  occurred  while  Ariel  Sharon  was  minister  of 
defense  (1981-83)  and  Rafael  Eitan  was  chief  of  staff  (1979-83); 


229 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

both  individuals  had  stressed  the  independent  policy  role  of  the 
IDF  (see  The  Military  in  Political  Life,  ch.  5). 

Foreign  Relations 

The  cabinet,  and  particularly  the  inner  cabinet,  consisting  of  the 
prime  minister,  minister  of  foreign  affairs,  minister  of  defense,  and 
other  selected  ministers,  are  responsible  for  formulating  Israel's 
major  foreign  policy  decisions.  Within  the  inner  cabinet,  the  prime 
minister  customarily  plays  the  major  role  in  foreign  policy  deci- 
sion making,  with  policies  implemented  by  the  minister  of  foreign 
affairs.  Other  officials  at  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  include, 
in  order  of  their  rank,  the  director  general,  assistant  directors  gen- 
eral, legal  and  political  advisers,  heads  of  departments,  and  heads 
of  missions  or  ambassadors.  While  the  director  general  may  initi- 
ate and  decide  an  issue,  commit  the  ministry  by  making  public 
statements,  and  respond  directly  to  queries  from  ambassadors,  as- 
sistant directors  general  supervise  the  implementation  of  policy. 
Legal  and  political  advisers  have  consultative,  not  operational,  roles. 
Heads  of  departments  serve  as  aides  to  assistant  directors  general, 
administer  the  ministry's  departments,  and  maintain  routine  contact 
with  envoys.  The  influence  of  ambassadors  depends  on  their  sta- 
tus within  the  diplomatic  service  and  the  importance  to  the  minis- 
try's policy  makers  of  the  nation  to  which  they  are  accredited. 

In  the  Knesset,  the  Foreign  Affairs  and  Security  Committee,  with 
twenty-six  members,  although  prestigious,  is  not  as  independent 
as  the  foreign  affairs  committees  of  the  United  States  Congress. 
Its  role,  according  to  Samuel  Sager,  an  Israeli  Knesset  official,  is 
not  to  initiate  new  policies,  but  to  "legitimize  Government  policy 
choices  on  controversial  issues."  Members  of  the  committee  fre- 
quently complain  that  they  do  not  receive  detailed  information  dur- 
ing briefings  by  government  officials;  government  spokesmen  reply 
that  committee  members  tend  to  leak  briefing  reports  to  the  media. 

Israeli  foreign  policy  is  chiefly  influenced  by  Israel's  strategic 
situation,  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  and  the  rejection  of  Israel  by 
most  of  the  Arab  states.  The  goals  of  Israeli  policy  are  therefore 
to  overcome  diplomatic  isolation  and  to  achieve  recognition  and 
friendly  relations  with  as  many  nations  as  possible,  both  in  the  Mid- 
dle East  and  beyond.  Like  many  other  states,  throughout  its  his- 
tory Israel  has  simultaneously  practiced  open  and  secret  diplomacy 
to  further  its  main  national  goals.  For  example,  it  has  engaged  in 
military  procurement,  the  export  of  arms  and  military  assistance, 
intelligence  cooperation  with  its  allies,  commercial  trade,  the  im- 
portation of  strategic  raw  materials,  and  prisoner-of-war  exchanges 
and  other  arrangements  for  hostage  releases.  It  has  also  sought  to 


230 


Government  and  Politics 


foster  increased  Jewish  immigration  to  Israel  and  to  protect  vul- 
nerable Jewish  communities  in  the  Diaspora. 

Relations  with  Middle  Eastern  States 

Despite  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  Israel  has  established  formal 
diplomatic  relations  with  Egypt  and  maintained  a  de  facto  peace- 
ful relationship  with  Jordan.  Israeli  leaders  have  traveled  to 
Morocco  to  discuss  Israeli- Arab  issues,  and  Morocco  has  often 
served  as  an  intermediary  between  Israel  and  the  other  Arab  states. 
In  1983  Israel  signed  a  peace  treaty  with  Lebanon,  although  it  was 
quickly  abrogated  by  the  Lebanese  as  a  result  of  Syrian  pressure. 
Some  secret  diplomatic  contacts  may  also  have  occurred  between 
Israel  and  Tunisia. 

Egypt 

In  late  1988,  about  ten  years  after  the  signing  of  the  Camp  David 
Accords  and  the  Treaty  of  Peace  Between  Egypt  and  Israel  (see 
The  Peace  Process,  ch.  1),  a  "cool"  peace  characterized  Egyptian- 
Israeli  relations.  These  relations  had  originally  been  envisioned  as 
leading  to  a  reconciliation  between  Israel  and  the  Arab  states,  but 
this  development  has  not  occurred.  Egyptian-Israeli  relations  have 
been  strained  by  a  number  of  developments,  including  the  June 
1981  Israeli  bombing  of  an  Iraqi  nuclear  reactor,  the  Israeli  inva- 
sion of  Lebanon  directed  against  Palestinian  forces  a  year  later, 
the  establishment  of  an  increasing  number  of  Jewish  settlements 
in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip,  and  the  "watering  down" 
of  proposals  for  the  autonomy  of  the  Palestinian  inhabitants  of  these 
territories  as  envisaged  by  the  Camp  David  Accords  and  the 
Egyptian-Israeli  peace  treaty. 

Relations  between  the  two  countries  warmed  somewhat  during 
Peres' s  tenure  as  prime  minister  and  minister  of  foreign  affairs  in 
the  National  Unity  Government.  They  again  cooled,  however,  fol- 
lowing the  establishment  of  the  Likud-led  cabinet  in  December 
1988,  and  prime  minister  Shamir's  rejection  of  Israeli  participa- 
tion in  an  international  peace  conference  with  the  PLO.  Neverthe- 
less, the  two  countries  continued  to  maintain  full  diplomatic 
relations,  and  in  1985  about  60,000  Israeli  tourists  visited  Egypt, 
although  Egyptian  tourism  to  Israel  was  much  smaller.  Coopera- 
tion occurred  in  the  academic  and  scientific  areas  as  well  as  in  a 
number  of  joint  projects  in  agriculture,  marine  science,  and  dis- 
ease control. 

Another  issue  that  had  impeded  normal  relations  between  Egypt 
and  Israel  concerned  the  disposition  of  Taba,  an  approximately 
100-hectare  border  enclave  and  tourist  area  on  the  Gulf  of  Aqaba 


231 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

in  the  Sinai  Peninsula  claimed  by  the  two  countries,  but  occupied 
by  Israel.  Following  a  September  1988  ruling  in  Egypt's  favor  by 
an  international  arbitration  panel,  official  delegations  from  Israel 
and  Egypt  met  to  implement  the  arbitral  award. 

Jordan 

Secret  or  "discreet"  contacts  between  the  leaders  of  the  Yishuv 
and  later  of  Israel  and  the  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Transjordan 
or  Jordan  began  in  the  early  days  of  the  British  Mandate  and  con- 
tinued into  the  late  1980s.  These  covert  contacts  were  initiated  with 
King  Abdullah,  the  grandfather  of  King  Hussein,  Jordan's  present 
ruler.  Some  observers  have  speculated  that,  together  with  Jordan's 
annexation  of  the  West  Bank  in  1950,  these  contacts  may  have  been 
responsible  for  Abdullah's  assassination  by  a  Palestinian  gunman 
in  East  Jerusalem  in  July  1951 .  According  to  Israeli  journalists  Yossi 
Melman  and  Dan  Raviv,  Hussein  renewed  Jordan's  ties  with  Israel 
in  1963.  Following  Jordan's  ill-fated  participation  in  the  June  1967 
War,  secret  meetings  took  place  between  Hussein  and  Israeli  leaders 
in  1968,  and  they  lasted  until  Begin' s  accession  to  power  in  1977. 
This  "secret"  relationship  was  revived  in  1984,  following  Labor's 
participation  in  the  National  Unity  Government,  and  intensified 
in  1986-87.  The  participants  reached  agreements  on  Israeli- 
Jordanian  cooperation  on  such  issues  as  the  role  of  pro-Jordanian 
Palestinian  moderates  in  the  peace  process,  setting  up  branches 
of  Jordan's  Cairo- Amman  Bank  in  the  West  Bank,  and  generally 
increasing  Amman's  influence  and  involvement  in  the  West  Bank's 
financial,  agricultural,  education,  and  health  affairs,  thus  block- 
ing the  PLO.  The  last  reported  meeting  between  Minister  of  For- 
eign Affairs  Peres  and  King  Hussein  took  place  in  London  in 
November  1987,  when  the  two  leaders  signed  a  "memorandum 
of  understanding"  on  a  peace  plan.  Upon  his  return  to  Israel, 
however,  Peres  was  unable  to  win  support  for  the  agreement  in 
the  Israeli  cabinet. 

Morocco 

Morocco  has  been  noted  for  its  generally  good  relations  with  its 
own  Jewish  community,  which  in  1988  numbered  approximately 
18,000;  in  1948  there  had  been  about  250,000  Jews  in  Morocco. 
Over  the  years  discreet  meetings  have  occurred  between  Moroc- 
can and  Israeli  leaders.  Beginning  in  1976,  King  Hassan  II  began 
to  mediate  between  Arab  and  Israeli  leaders.  Then  Prime  Minister 
Yitzhak  Rabin  reportedly  made  a  secret  visit  to  Morocco  in  1976, 
leading  to  a  September  1977  secret  meeting  between  King  Hassan 
and  Foreign  Minister  Moshe  Dayan.  King  Hassan  also  played  a 


232 


Allenby  Bridge  across  the 
Jordan  River,  a  crossing  point 
into  Jordan,  with  Israeli 
and  Jordanian  soldiers  talking 
Courtesy  Les  Vogel 


role  in  the  Egyptian-Israeli  contacts  that  led  to  the  1978  Camp  David 
Accords.  In  July  1978,  and  again  in  March  1981,  Peres,  as  oppo- 
sition leader,  made  secret  trips  to  Morocco.  In  May  1984,  thirty- 
five  prominent  Israelis  of  Moroccan  origin  attended  a  conference 
in  Rabat.  This  meeting  was  followed  by  an  official  visit  in  May 
1985  by  Avraham  Katz-Oz,  Israel's  deputy  minister  of  agricul- 
ture, to  discuss  possible  agricultural  cooperation  between  the  two 
countries.  In  August  1986,  Moroccan  agricultural  specialists  and 
journalists  reportedly  visited  Israel,  and  Chaim  Corfu,  Israel's 
minister  of  transport,  attended  a  transportation  conference  in 
Morocco.  On  July  22  and  23,  1986,  Prime  Minister  Peres  met  King 
Hassan  at  the  king's  palace  in  Ifrane.  This  was  the  first  instance 
of  a  public  meeting  between  an  Arab  leader  and  an  Israeli  prime 
minister  since  the  Egyptian-Israeli  meetings  of  the  late  1970s. 
Hassan  and  Peres,  however,  were  unable  to  agree  on  ways  to  resolve 
the  Palestinian  dimension  of  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict. 

Iran 

Until  the  overthrow  of  the  shah's  regime  in  1979,  Israel  and  Iran 
had  established  government  missions  in  both  countries  although 
this  relationship  was  never  formalized  by  an  exchange  of  ambas- 
sadors. Under  the  shah,  from  1953  to  1979,  Iran  was  one  of  Israel's 
primary  suppliers  of  oil  and  a  major  commercial  partner.  In  addi- 
tion, the  intelligence  services  of  the  two  countries  cooperated  closely, 


233 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

and  Israel  exported  military  hardware  and  provided  training  and 
other  assistance  to  Iranian  military  forces.  These  close,  but  dis- 
creet, relations  were  abruptly  terminated  in  1979,  upon  the  com- 
ing to  power  of  the  regime  of  Ayatollah  Sayyid  Ruhollah  Musavi 
Khomeini  and  Iran's  joining  of  the  anti-Israel  camp.  Shortly  there- 
after, Iran  called  for  the  "eradication"  of  the  State  of  Israel  through 
armed  struggle  and  its  replacement  by  a  Palestinian  state.  As  a 
symbolic  gesture,  the  PLO  was  given  the  building  of  the  former 
Israeli  mission  in  Tehran. 

In  the  1980s,  however,  Israeli  concern  about  the  fate  of  the  ap- 
proximately 30,000  Jews  remaining  in  Iran,  interest  in  assisting 
Iran  in  its  war  with  Iraq,  and  cooperation  with  the  United  States 
in  its  efforts  to  free  American  hostages  held  by  Iranian-backed  Shia 
(see  Glossary)  extremists  in  Lebanon,  led  to  a  renewal  of  contacts 
between  Israeli  and  Iranian  leaders  and  shipments  of  Israeli  arms 
to  Tehran.  Israel  reportedly  sent  arms  to  Iran  in  exchange  for  Iran's 
allowing  thousands  of  Jews  to  leave  the  country. 

Relations  with  the  United  States 

For  strategic  security  and  diplomatic  support,  Israel  has  depended 
almost  totally  upon  the  United  States.  Since  the  establishment  of 
the  state  in  1948,  the  United  States  has  expressed  its  commitment 
to  Israel's  security  and  well-being  and  has  devoted  a  considerable 
share  of  its  world-wide  economic  and  security  assistance  to  Israel. 
Large-scale  American  military  and  economic  assistance  began  dur- 
ing the  October  1973  War,  with  a  massive  American  airlift  of  vital 
military  materiel  to  Israel  at  the  height  of  the  war.  From  1948 
through  1985,  the  United  States  provided  Israel  with  US$10  bil- 
lion in  economic  assistance  and  US$21  billion  in  military  assistance, 
60  percent  of  which  was  in  the  form  of  grants.  From  1986  through 
1988,  total  United  States  economic  and  military  assistance  to  Israel 
averaged  more  than  US$3  billion  a  year,  making  Israel  the  largest 
recipient  of  United  States  aid.  Of  the  annual  total,  about  US$1.8 
billion  was  in  Foreign  Military  Sales  credits,  and  about  US$1.2 
billion  was  in  economic  assistance. 

During  the  administration  of  President  Ronald  Reagan,  the 
United  States-Israeli  relationship  was  significantly  upgraded,  with 
Israel  becoming  a  strategic  partner  and  de  facto  ally.  A  number 
of  bilateral  arrangements  solidified  this  special  relationship.  In 
November  1983,  the  United  States  and  Israel  established  a  Joint 
Political-Military  Group  to  coordinate  military  exercises  and  secu- 
rity planning  between  the  two  countries,  as  well  as  to  position 
United  States  military  equipment  in  Israel  for  use  by  American 
forces  in  the  event  of  a  crisis.  In  1984  Israel  and  the  United  States 


234 


Government  and  Politics 


concluded  the  United  States-Israel  Free  Trade  Area  Agreement 
to  provide  tariff-free  access  to  American  and  Israeli  goods.  In  1985 
the  two  countries  established  a  Joint  Economic  Development  Group 
to  help  Israel  solve  its  economic  problems;  in  1986  they  created 
a  Joint  Security  Assistance  Group  to  discuss  aid  issues.  Also  in  1986, 
Israel  began  participating  in  research  and  development  programs 
relating  to  the  United  States  Strategic  Defense  Initiative.  In  Janu- 
ary 1987,  the  United  States  designated  Israel  a  major  non-NATO 
ally,  with  status  similar  to  that  of  Australia  and  Japan.  Two  months 
later,  Israel  agreed  to  the  construction  of  a  Voice  of  America  relay 
transmitter  on  its  soil  to  broadcast  programs  to  the  Soviet  Union. 
In  December  1987,  Israel  signed  a  memorandum  of  understand- 
ing allowing  it  to  bid  on  United  States  defense  contracts  on  the 
same  basis  as  NATO  countries.  Finally,  the  two  countries  signed 
a  memorandum  of  agreement  in  April  1988  formalizing  existing 
arrangements  for  mutually  beneficial  United  States-Israel  technol- 
ogy transfers. 

Israel  has  also  cooperated  with  the  United  States  on  a  number 
of  clandestine  operations.  It  acted  as  a  secret  channel  for  United 
States  arms  sales  to  Iran  in  1985  and  1986,  and  during  the  same 
period  it  cooperated  with  the  United  States  in  Central  America. 

The  United  States-Israeli  relationship,  however,  has  not  been 
free  of  friction.  The  United  States  expressed  indignation  with  Israel 
over  an  espionage  operation  involving  Jonathan  Jay  Pollard,  a 
United  States  Navy  employee  who  was  sentenced  to  life  imprison- 
ment for  selling  hundreds  of  vital  intelligence  documents  to  Israel. 
During  the  affair,  Israeli  government  and  diplomatic  personnel  in 
Washington  served  as  Pollard's  control  officers.  Nevertheless, 
United  States  government  agencies  continued  to  maintain  a  close 
relationship  with  Israel  in  sensitive  areas  such  as  military  cooper- 
ation, intelligence  sharing,  and  joint  weapons  research. 

The  main  area  of  friction  between  the  United  States  and  Israel 
has  concerned  Washington's  efforts  to  balance  its  special  ties  to 
Jerusalem  with  its  overall  Middle  Eastern  interests  and  the  need 
to  negotiate  an  end  to  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  in  which  the  United 
States  has  played  a  major  mediating  role.  In  1948  the  United  States 
hoped  that  peace  could  be  achieved  between  Israel  and  the  Arab 
states,  but  this  expectation  was  quickly  dashed  when  Arab  nations 
refused  to  recognize  Israel's  independence.  American  hopes  were 
dashed  again  when  in  1951  Jordan's  King  Abdullah,  with  whom 
some  form  of  settlement  seemed  possible,  was  assassinated  and  in 
1953  when  the  Johnston  Plan,  a  proposal  for  neighboring  states 
to  share  the  water  of  the  Jordan  River,  was  rejected. 


235 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

The  June  1967  War  provided  a  major  opportunity  for  the  United 
States  to  serve  as  a  mediator  in  the  conflict;  working  with  Israel 
and  the  Arab  states  the  United  States  persuaded  the  United  Nations 
(UN)  Security  Council  to  pass  Resolution  242  of  November  22, 
1967.  The  resolution  was  designed  to  serve  as  the  basis  for  a  peace 
settlement  involving  an  Israeli  withdrawal  from  territories  occupied 
in  the  June  1967  War  in  exchange  for  peace  and  Arab  recognition 
of  Israel's  right  to  exist.  Many  disputes  over  the  correct  interpre- 
tation of  a  clause  concerning  an  Israeli  withdrawal  followed  the 
passage  of  the  UN  resolution,  which  was  accepted  by  Israel.  The 
resolution  lacked  any  explicit  provision  for  direct  negotiations  be- 
tween the  parties.  Although  the  Arab  states  and  the  Palestinians 
did  not  accept  the  resolution,  it  has  remained  the  basis  of  United 
States  policy  regarding  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict. 

In  December  1969,  the  Rogers  Plan,  named  after  United  States 
Secretary  of  State  William  P.  Rogers,  although  unsuccessful  in 
producing  peace  negotiations,  succeeded  in  ending  the  War  of  At- 
trition between  Israel  and  Egypt  that  followed  the  June  1967  War 
and  established  a  cease-fire  along  the  Suez  Canal.  In  1971  United 
States  assistant  secretary  of  state  Joseph  P.  Sisco  proposed  an  "  in- 
terim Suez  Canal  agreement"  to  bring  about  a  limited  Israeli  with- 
drawal from  the  canal,  hoping  that  such  an  action  would  lead  to 
a  peace  settlement.  The  proposal  failed  when  neither  Israel  nor 
Egypt  would  agree  to  the  other's  conditions. 

In  October  1973,  at  the  height  of  the  Arab-Israeli  war,  United 
States-Soviet  negotiations  paved  the  way  for  UN  Security  Coun- 
cil Resolution  338.  In  addition  to  calling  for  an  immediate  cease- 
fire and  opening  negotiations  aimed  at  implementing  Resolution 
242,  this  resolution  inserted  a  requirement  that  future  talk  be  con- 
ducted "between  the  parties  concerned,"  that  is,  between  the  Arabs 
and  the  Israelis  themselves. 

In  September  1975,  United  States  secretary  of  state  Henry  Kis- 
singer's "shuttle  diplomacy"  achieved  the  Second  Sinai  Disengage- 
ment Agreement  between  Israel  and  Egypt,  laying  the  groundwork 
for  later  negotiations  between  the  two  nations.  The  United  States 
also  pledged,  as  part  of  a  memorandum  of  understanding  with 
Israel,  not  to  negotiate  with  the  PLO  until  it  was  prepared  to  recog- 
nize Israel's  right  to  exist  and  to  renounce  terrorism. 

Another  major  United  States  initiative  came  in  1977  when  Presi- 
dent Jimmy  Carter  stressed  the  need  to  solve  the  Arab-Israeli  con- 
flict by  convening  an  international  peace  conference  in  Geneva, 
cochaired  by  the  United  States  and  the  Soviet  Union.  Although 
Egyptian  President  Anwar  as  Sadat  conducted  his  initiative  in  open- 
ing direct  Egyptian-Israeli  peace  talks  without  United  States 


236 


Government  and  Politics 


assistance,  the  United  States  played  an  indispensable  role  in  the 
complex  and  difficult  negotiation  process.  Negotiations  ultimately 
led  to  the  signing,  under  United  States  auspices,  of  the  September 
17,  1978,  Camp  David  Accords,  as  well  as  the  March  1979  Treaty 
of  Peace  Between  Egypt  and  Israel.  The  accords  included  provi- 
sions that  called  for  granting  autonomy  to  Palestinians  in  the  West 
Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip  through  a  freely  elected  self-governing 
authority  during  a  five-year  transitional  period;  at  the  end  of  the 
period  the  final  status  of  the  occupied  territories  was  to  be  decided. 
Carter  had  hoped  that  this  process  would  enable  the  Palestinians 
to  fulfill  their  legitimate  national  aspirations  while  at  the  same  time 
safeguarding  Israeli  security  concerns.  While  criticizing  the  Begin 
government's  settlement  policy  in  the  occupied  territories,  the 
Carter  administration  could  not  prevent  the  intensified  pace  of  con- 
struction of  new  settlements. 

Following  Israel's  invasion  of  Lebanon  in  early  June  1982,  on 
September  1,  1982,  President  Reagan  outlined  what  came  to  be 
called  the  Reagan  Plan.  This  plan  upheld  the  goals  of  the  Camp 
David  Accords  regarding  autonomy  for  the  Palestinians  of  the  West 
Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip  and  disapproved  of  Israel's  establishment 
of  any  new  settlements  in  these  areas.  It  further  proposed  that  at 
the  end  of  a  transitional  period,  the  best  form  of  government  for 
the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip  would  be  self-government  by 
the  resident  Palestinian  population  in  association  with  Jordan. 
Under  the  plan,  Israel  would  be  obliged  to  withdraw  from  the  oc- 
cupied territories  in  exchange  for  peace,  and  the  city  of  Jerusalem 
would  remain  undivided;  its  final  status  would  be  decided  through 
negotiations.  The  plan  rejected  the  creation  of  an  independent  Pales- 
tinian state.  Although  Labor  leader  Peres  expressed  support  for 
the  plan,  Prime  Minister  Menachem  Begin  and  the  Likud  opposed 
it,  as  did  the  PLO  and  the  Arab  states.  The  plan  was  subsequently 
shelved. 

The  United  States  nevertheless  continued  its  efforts  to  facilitate 
Arab-Israeli  peace.  In  March  1987,  the  United  States  undertook 
intensive  diplomatic  negotiations  with  Jordan  and  Israel  to  achieve 
agreement  on  holding  an  international  peace  conference,  but  differ- 
ences over  Palestinian  representation  created  obstacles.  In  Israel, 
Likud  prime  minister  Shamir  and  Labor  minister  of  foreign  af- 
fairs Peres  were  at  odds,  with  Shamir  rejecting  an  international 
conference  and  Peres  accepting  it.  Peres  and  Labor  Party  minister 
of  defense  Rabin  reportedly  held  talks  with  Jordan's  King  Hus- 
sein, who  wanted  the  conference  to  include  the  five  permanent 
members  of  the  UN  Security  Council,  as  well  as  Israel,  the  Arab 
states,  and  the  PLO.  The  Reagan  administration,  on  the  other 


237 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


hand,  was  reluctant  to  invite  the  Soviet  Union  to  participate  in 
the  diplomatic  process.  The  administration  insisted  that  any 
prospective  conference  adjourn  speedily  and  then  take  the  form 
of  direct  talks  between  Israel  and  Jordan.  The  administration  also 
insisted  that  the  conference  have  no  power  to  veto  any  agreement 
between  Israel  and  Jordan. 

A  major  difficulty  involved  the  nature  of  Palestinian  represen- 
tation at  a  conference.  A  Soviet-Syrian  communique  repeated  the 
demand  for  PLO  participation,  which  Israel  flatly  rejected.  The 
United  States  asserted  that,  as  the  basis  for  any  PLO  participa- 
tion, the  PLO  must  accept  UN  Resolutions  242  and  338  with  their 
implied  recognition  of  Israel's  right  to  exist.  Both  the  PLO  main- 
stream and  its  radical  wings  were  unwilling  to  agree  to  this  de- 
mand. The  Palestinian  uprising  (intifadah)  in  the  West  Bank  and 
the  Gaza  Strip  began  in  December  1987.  In  February  1988,  Secre- 
tary of  State  George  Shultz  visited  Israel,  Egypt,  Jordan,  and  Syria; 
in  a  statement  issued  in  Jerusalem  he  called  for  Palestinian  partic- 
ipation, as  part  of  a  Jordanian/Palestinian  delegation,  in  an  inter- 
national peace  conference.  The  PLO  rejected  this  initiative.  The 
United  States  proposal  called  for  a  comprehensive  peace  provid- 
ing for  the  security  of  all  states  in  the  region  and  for  fulfillment 
of  the  legitimate  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people.  The  proposal  con- 
sisted of  an  "integrated  whole"  and  included  the  following  negotiat- 
ing framework:  "early  negotiations  between  Israel  and  each  of  its 
neighbors  willing  to  do  so,"  with  the  door  "specifically  open  for 
Syrian  participation";  "bilateral  negotiations  .  .  .  based  on  United 
Nations  Security  Council  Resolutions  242  and  338  in  all  their 
parts";  "the  parties  to  each  bilateral  negotiation"  to  determine 
"the  procedure  and  agenda  of  the  negotiation";  "negotiations  be- 
tween an  Israeli  and  a  Jordanian/Palestinian  delegation  on  arrange- 
ments for  a  transitional  period  for  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza, ' '  with 
the  objective  of  completing  "these  talks  within  six  months";  and 
"final  status  negotiations"  beginning  "on  a  date  certain  seven 
months  after  the  start  of  transitional  talks,"  with  the  objective  of 
completing  the  talks  "within  a  year." 

On  March  26,  1988,  Shultz  met  with  two  members  of  the  Pales- 
tine National  Council  (PNC),  which  represents  Palestinians  out- 
side Israel,  various  political  and  guerrilla  groups  within  the  PLO, 
and  associated  youth,  student,  women's,  and  professional  bodies. 
According  to  a  PLO  spokesman,  the  PNC  members,  Professors 
Ibrahim  Abu  Lughod  and  Edward  Said,  both  Arab  Americans, 
were  authorized  by  Yasir  Arafat  to  speak  to  Shultz,  and  they  later 
reported  directly  to  the  PLO  leader  about  their  talks.  Little  resulted 


238 


Government  and  Politics 


from  this  meeting,  however,  and  Shultz  found  no  authoritative  party 
willing  to  come  to  the  conference  table. 

The  United  States  once  again  involved  itself  in  the  peace  process 
to  break  the  stalemate  among  the  Arab  states,  the  Palestinians,  and 
Israel  following  King  Hussein's  declaration  on  July  31 ,  1988,  that 
he  was  severing  most  of  Jordan's  administrative  and  legal  ties  with 
the  West  Bank,  thus  throwing  the  future  of  the  West  Bank  onto 
the  PLO's  shoulders.  PLO  chairman  Yasir  Arafat  thereby  gained 
new  international  status,  but  Shultz  barred  him  from  entering  the 
United  States  to  address  the  UN  General  Assembly  in  early  De- 
cember because  of  Arafat's  and  the  PLO's  involvement  in  terrorist 
activities.  When  Arafat,  following  his  December  14  address  to  a 
special  session  of  the  UN  General  Assembly  in  Geneva,  met  Ameri- 
can conditions  by  recognizing  Israel's  right  to  exist  in  "peace  and 
security,"  accepted  UN  Resolutions  242  and  338,  and  renounced 
"all  forms  of  terrorism,  including  individual,  group  and  state  ter- 
rorism," the  United  States  reversed  its  thirteen-year  policy  of  not 
officially  speaking  to  the  PLO. 

The  Israeli  National  Unity  Government,  installed  in  late  De- 
cember, denounced  the  PLO  as  an  unsuitable  negotiating  part- 
ner. It  did  not  accept  the  PLO's  recognition  of  Israel  and 
renunciation  of  terrorism  as  genuine. 

Whether  the  United  States-PLO  talks  would  yield  concrete  results 
in  terms  of  Arab-Israeli  peace  making  remained  to  be  seen  as  of 
the  end  of  1988.  Notwithstanding  the  possibility  of  future  progress, 
the  new  willingness  of  the  United  States  to  talk  to  the  PLO  demon- 
strated that,  despite  the  special  relationship  between  the  United 
States  and  Israel  and  the  many  areas  of  mutual  agreement  and 
shared  geopolitical  strategic  interests,  substantial  differences  con- 
tinued to  exist  between  the  United  States  and  certain  segments  of 
the  Israeli  government.  This  was  especially  true  with  regard  to  the 
Likud  and  its  right-wing  allies. 

Relations  with  the  Soviet  Union 

In  August  1986,  the  Soviet  Union  renewed  contacts  with  Israel 
for  the  first  time  since  severing  diplomatic  relations  immediately 
following  the  June  1967  War.  The  Soviet  Union  had  been  an  early 
supporter  of  the  1947  UN  Partition  of  Palestine  Resolution,  and 
in  1948  it  had  recognized  the  newly  established  State  of  Israel.  Re- 
lations between  Israel  and  the  countries  of  Eastern  Europe,  however, 
markedly  worsened  in  the  1950s.  The  Soviet  Union  turned  to  Egypt 
and  Syria  as  its  primary  partners  in  the  Middle  East,  and  in  the 
early  1960s  it  began  to  support  the  Palestinian  cause  and  supply 
the  PLO  and  other  Palestinian  armed  groups  with  military 


239 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


hardware.  But  in  the  mid-1980s,  the  Soviet  Union  turned  its  at- 
tention to  improving  relations  with  Israel  as  part  of  its  "new 
diplomacy"  and  a  change  in  its  Middle  Eastern  strategy. 

Soviet  and  Israeli  representatives  held  talks  in  Helsinki,  Finland, 
on  August  17,  1986.  Although  the  talks  did  not  lead  to  renewed 
diplomatic  relations  between  the  two  countries,  they  indicated  Soviet 
interest  in  improving  ties  with  Israel.  Israel  viewed  the  Soviet  in- 
itiative as  an  attempt  to  obtain  Israel's  agreement  to  participate 
in  an  international  peace  conference  to  resolve  the  Arab-Israeli  con- 
flict and  to  increase  Soviet  involvement  in  the  Middle  East  as  a 
counterweight  to  the  United  States.  The  Soviets  raised  three  is- 
sues: the  activity  of  the  Soviet  section  based  in  the  Finnish  lega- 
tion in  Tel  Aviv;  consular  matters  connected  with  the  travels  of 
Soviet  citizens  to  Israel;  and  Soviet  property,  mainly  that  belong- 
ing to  the  Russian  Orthodox  Church,  in  Israel.  In  talks  with  the 
Soviets,  the  Israelis  demanded  that  greater  numbers  of  Jews  be  per- 
mitted to  emigrate  to  Israel,  that  a  radical  change  take  place  in 
official  Soviet  attitudes  toward  its  Jewish  community,  and  that 
Moscow  cease  publishing  virulent  anti-Zionist  tracts.  Soviet  and 
Israeli  officials  held  a  number  of  additional  meetings  in  1987. 

A  major  group  influencing  improved  relations  between  the  two 
countries  was  the  active  Israeli  lobby,  the  Soviet  Jewry  Education 
and  Information  Center.  This  lobby  represented  about  170,000 
Soviet  Jews  living  in  Israel,  who  pressured  the  government  not  to 
restore  diplomatic  relations  with  Moscow  until  the  Soviet  Union 
permitted  free  Jewish  emigration. 

Despite  its  renewed  contacts  with  Israel,  the  Soviet  Union  con- 
tinued to  support  the  PLO  and  the  Palestinian  cause  through  mili- 
tary training  and  arms  shipments.  Moscow  also  used  various  front 
organizations,  such  as  the  World  Peace  Council,  to  wage  propa- 
ganda campaigns  against  the  Israeli  state  in  international  forums. 

Relations  with  Eastern  Europe 

Improved  Israeli-Soviet  relations  led  to  increased  ties  with  East 
European  states  as  well.  Israel  and  Poland  reestablished  diplomatic 
relations  in  September  1986.  Trade  and  tourism  between  Israel 
and  Hungary  also  improved  in  1986.  On  August  6,  1986,  a  senior 
Romanian  envoy  visited  Jerusalem  and  met  with  Prime  Minister 
Peres  to  discuss  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union.  At  the  time,  there 
was  speculation  that  the  Romanian  president,  Nicolae  Ceaucescu, 
had  helped  arrange  behind-the-scenes  contacts  between  the  Soviet 
Union  and  Israel.  On  August  30,  1986,  talks  followed  between 
Yehuda  Horam,  head  of  the  East  European  Division  of  the  Israeli 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  and  Romanian  officials.  Also  in 


240 


Government  and  Politics 


August,  Mrs.  Shulamit  Shamir,  the  wife  of  then-Minister  of  For- 
eign Affairs  Yitzhak  Shamir,  received  an  invitation  to  visit  Bul- 
garia, the  first  such  official  Bulgarian  gesture  toward  Israel.  In 
January.  1987,  an  Israeli  delegation  held  negotiations  with  Polish, 
Bulgarian,  and  Hungarian  representatives  concerning  agricultural 
cooperation. 

Relations  with  Western  Europe 

Israeli  relations  with  the  states  of  Western  Europe  have  been  con- 
ditioned by  European  desires  to  further  their  own  commercial  in- 
terests and  ties  with  the  Arab  world  and  their  heavy  dependence 
on  Middle  Eastern  oil.  Europeans  have  provided  political  support 
for  Arab  states  and  the  Palestinian  cause,  even  though  Europe  has 
served  as  the  battleground  for  Arab  and  Palestinian  terrorist  groups. 
For  example,  beginning  in  the  early  1970s,  the  ministers  of  for- 
eign affairs  of  the  European  Community  called  for  Israel  to  with- 
draw from  territories  occupied  during  the  June  1967  War,  expressed 
"reservations"  over  the  1978  Camp  David  Accords,  and  accepted 
the  "association"  of  the  PLO  in  solving  the  Palestinian  problem. 

Despite  such  official  declarations,  West  European  states  have 
been  important  trading  partners  for  Israel;  about  40  percent  of 
Israel's  foreign  trade  occurred  with  European  countries.  Further- 
more, there  has  been  strong  European-Israeli  cooperation — except 
with  Greece — in  the  area  of  counterterrorism.  Britain  was  Israel's 
most  important  European  trading  partner  although  relations  be- 
tween the  two  countries  were  never  free  of  tensions.  In  1979,  for 
example,  Britain  disallowed  Israel's  purchase  of  British  crude  oil 
after  Israel  lost  oil  deliveries  from  Iran  and  Sinai.  Moreover,  Brit- 
ain imposed  an  arms  embargo  on  Israel  following  its  June  1982 
invasion  of  Lebanon. 

In  the  early  1950s,  France  and  Israel  maintained  close  political 
and  military  relations,  and  France  was  Israel's  main  weapons  sup- 
plier until  the  June  1967  War.  At  that  time,  during  Charles  de 
Gaulle's  presidency,  France  became  highly  critical  of  Israeli  poli- 
cies and  imposed  an  arms  embargo  on  Israel.  In  the  early  1980s, 
French-Israeli  relations  markedly  improved  under  the  presidency 
of  Francois  Mitterrand,  who  pursued  a  more  even-handed  approach 
than  his  predecessors  on  Arab-Israeli  issues.  Mitterand  was  the  first 
French  president  to  visit  Israel  while  in  office. 

Relations  between  Israel  and  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany 
(West  Germany)  were  "second  in  importance  only  to  [Israel's]  part- 
nership with  the  United  States,"  according  to  Michael  Wolffsohn, 
a  leading  authority  on  the  subject.  In  Wolffsohn 's  view,  the 
dominant  issues  in  West  German-Israeli  relations  were:  the  question 


241 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


of  reparations  (up  to  1953);  the  establishment  of  diplomatic  rela- 
tions (up  to  1965):  the  solidification  of  normal  relations  (through 
1969):  the  erosion  in  the  West  German-Israeli  relationship  as  Chan- 
cellor Willi  Brandt — the  first  West  German  chancellor  to  visit 
Israel — began  to  stress  Israel's  need  to  withdraw  from  all  territo- 
ries occupied  in  the  June  1967  War  and  to  recognize  the  right  of 
the  Palestinian  people  to  self-determination;  and,  finally,  during 
the  1980s,  under  the  Christian  Democrats,  West  Germany's  closer 
adherence  to  United  States  policies  on  Arab-Israeli  issues. 

In  January  1986,  Spain  established  full  diplomatic  relations  with 
Israel  despite  pressures  from  Arab  states  and  policy  differences  be- 
tween Madrid  and  Jerusalem  over  the  Palestinian  question.  This 
step  concluded  intensive  behind-the-scenes  Israeli  efforts — begun 
upon  the  death  of  President  Francisco  Franco  in  1975 — to  achieve 
normal  relations  with  Spain.  Prior  to  establishing  diplomatic  rela- 
tions, the  two  countries  discreetly  collaborated  in  antiterrorism  ef- 
forts, and  there  were  close  ties  between  Labor  and  Spain's  Socialist 
Party. 

Although  in  1947  Turkey  voted  against  the  UN  resolution  to 
establish  the  Jewish  state,  in  1948  it  became  the  first  Muslim  country 
to  establish  full  diplomatic  relations  with  Israel.  The  two  countries 
subsequently  maintained  normal  relations. 

Relations  with  African  States 

Until  the  early  1970s.  Israel  sent  hundreds  of  agricultural  ex- 
perts and  technicians  to  aid  in  developing  newly  independent  sub- 
Saharan  African  states,  seeking  diplomatic  relations  in  return.  The 
Arab  countries,  however,  exerted  pressure  on  such  states  to  break 
ties  with  Israel.  Most  African  states  eventually  complied  with  this 
pressure  because  of  their  need  for  Arab  oil  at  concessionary  prices 
and  because  of  Arab  promises  of  financial  aid.  Furthermore,  Israel 
received  heavy  criticism  from  African  nations  because  of  its  rela- 
tions with  South  Africa.  Moreover.  Israeli  support  for  the  Biafran 
secessionist  movement  in  Nigeria  alarmed  the  members  of  the 
Organization  of  African  Unity,  many  of  whom  faced  threatening 
national  liberation  movements  in  their  own  countries.  The  June 
1967  Israeli  occupation  of  the  West  Bank,  the  Gaza  Strip,  and  the 
Sinai  Peninsula  stirred  a  sense  of  unease  among  the  African  states; 
after  the  October  1973  War  twenty-nine  African  states  severed 
diplomatic  relations  with  Israel.  Malawi,  Lesotho,  and  Swaziland 
were  the  only  sub-Saharan  countries  to  maintain  diplomatic  rela- 
tions with  Israel. 

The  African  "embargo"  of  Israel  began  to  collapse  after  the  1978 
Camp  David  Accords  and  the  establishment  of  diplomatic  relations 


242 


Government  and  Politics 


between  Egypt  and  Israel.  Following  Zaire's  lead  in  1982,  Liberia 
(1983),  the  Cote  d'lvoire  (1986),  Cameroon  (1986),  and  Togo 
(1987)  renewed  diplomatic  ties  with  Israel.  Kenya,  Gabon,  Sene- 
gal, and  Equatorial  Guinea  have  also  shown  interest  in  renewing 
diplomatic  relations.  Several  other  African  countries,  although 
maintaining  their  diplomatic  distance,  nevertheless  had  unofficial 
ties  with  Israel,  as  expressed  by  the  presence  of  Israeli  advisers  and 
technicians.  Ghana  had  an  Israeli  "interests  office,"  and  Nigeria, 
Sierra  Leone,  and  the  Central  African  Republic  all  maintained  un- 
official ties  with  Israel. 

Israeli  military  expertise  and  technical  skills,  particularly  in  desert 
reclamation,  have  often  facilitated  ties  with  the  sub-Saharan  na- 
tions. In  Cameroon,  Israel  built  a  training  center  to  assist  in  halt- 
ing the  advance  of  the  Sahara  Desert,  and  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  Israeli 
contractors  undertook  several  major  building  projects.  Israel  also 
trained  the  elite  armed  units  protecting  the  presidents  of  Came- 
roon, Liberia,  Togo,  and  Zaire. 

Israel  has  long  had  a  special  interest  in  Ethiopia,  a  partially  Chris- 
tian country,  because  of  the  presence  of  Falashas  (Ethiopian  Jews) 
in  that  country.  Ethiopian-Israeli  relations  had  been  close  until  the 
overthrow  of  Emperor  Haile  Selassie  and  the  imposition  of  a 
Marxist,  pro-Soviet  military  regime  in  1974.  In  1978  Ethiopia 
received  military  aid  from  Israel  as  well  as  from  the  Soviet  Union, 
Cuba,  and  Libya  in  its  border  war  with  Somalia.  In  1984  and  1985, 
it  was  reported  that,  in  exchange  for  Israeli  military  aid  to  Ethio- 
pia in  its  battle  against  Muslim  Eritrean  secessionists  supported 
by  Arab  states,  Israel  organized  an  airlift  of  more  than  10,000 
Falashas  from  Ethiopia  to  Israel.  In  1988  it  was  estimated  that  be- 
tween 10,000  and  15,000  Falashas  still  remained  in  Ethiopia. 

Israel  has  also  had  a  longstanding  interest  in  South  Africa  be- 
cause of  its  approximately  110,000  Jews  and  15,000  Israelis.  Israeli 
leaders  justified  trade  with  South  Africa  on  the  ground  that  it  offered 
protection  for  the  South  African  Jewish  community  and  developed 
export  markets  for  Israel's  defense  and  commercial  industries.  Ex- 
cluding the  arms  trade,  in  1986  Israel  imported  approximately 
US$181 . 1  million  worth  of  South  African  goods,  consisting  primar- 
ily of  coal;  it  exported  products  worth  about  US$58.8  million. 

Israel  has  traditionally  opposed  international  trade  embargoes 
as  a  result  of  its  own  vulnerability  at  the  hands  of  the  UN  and  Third 
World-dominated  bodies.  In  1987,  however,  Israel  took  steps  to 
reduce  its  military  ties  with  South  Africa  so  as  to  bring  its  policies 
in  line  with  those  of  the  United  States  and  Western  Europe,  which 
had  imposed  limited  trade,  diplomatic,  and  travel  sanctions  on 
South  Africa.  In  a  speech  to  the  Knesset  on  March  19,  then  Minister 


243 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

of  Foreign  Affairs  Peres  formally  presented  the  Israeli  cabinet's 
four-point  plan  to  ban  military  sales  contracts  with  South  Africa 
(Israel's  arms  trade  with  South  Africa  was  reportedly  between 
US$400  and  US$800  million  a  year);  to  condemn  apartheid,  which 
Peres  characterized  as  "a  policy  totally  rejected  by  all  human  be- 
ings;" to  reduce  cultural  and  tourist  ties  to  a  minimum;  and  to 
appoint  an  official  committee  to  draft  a  detailed  list  of  economic 
sanctions  in  line  with  those  of  the  United  States  and  other  Western 
nations.  The  cabinet  also  announced  its  decision  to  establish  an 
educational  foundation  for  South  African  blacks  and  people  of  mixed 
race  in  Israel. 

Relations  with  Asian  States 

Many  Asian  nations  have  not  established  full  diplomatic  rela- 
tions with  Israel  because  of  their  large  Muslim  populations  and 
the  close  ties  they  have  maintained,  as  part  of  the  Non- Aligned 
Movement,  with  the  Arab  states  and  the  PLO.  Nevertheless,  there 
were  back-channel  contacts  between  Israel  and  India,  and  Israel 
has  maintained  a  consul  in  Bombay  since  1948.  In  August  1977, 
Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  Dayan  covertly  visited  India  to  meet 
with  Prime  Minister  Morarji  Desai,  but  the  meeting  proved  in- 
conclusive. In  addition,  there  has  been  a  tacit  relationship  between 
Israel  and  the  People's  Republic  of  China  in  such  fields  as  com- 
merce, technical  and  agricultural  programs,  and  arms  sales.  Israel 
has  maintained  friendly  relations  with  Australia,  New  Zealand,  Sin- 
gapore, Sri  Lanka,  Taiwan,  and  Thailand.  It  also  has  diplomatic 
relations  with  Japan,  although  Japan's  trade  relations  with  the  Arab 
states  and  Iran  take  precedence  over  those  with  Israel. 

Relations  with  Latin  America 

The  traditional  pro-Western  stance  of  most  Latin  American  states 
has  proven  to  be  politically  and  economically  advantageous  to  Israel, 
as  they  have  tended  to  be  more  sympathetic  to  Israel  in  the  UN 
than  African  or  Asian  countries.  They  have  also  been  more  will- 
ing to  maintain  economic  and  military  relations  with  Israel. 
Although  Latin  American  states  are  primarily  Roman  Catholic  and 
follow  the  Vatican's  position  favoring  the  internationalization  of 
Jerusalem,  Israel  has  obtained  crude  oil  from  Mexico,  it  maintains 
a  lucrative  arms  trade  with  Argentina  and  other  countries,  and  it 
has  assisted  Latin  American  regimes  in  their  counterinsurgency 
efforts  against  Cuban  and  Nicaraguan-supported  guerrillas. 

Communications  Media 

Western  observers  have  considered  the  Israeli  press  for  the  most 
part  to  be  highly  independent  and  a  reliable  source  of  information. 


244 


Government  and  Politics 


The  press  has  reflected  accurately  the  range  of  political  opinions 
in  the  country  and  played  a  leading  role  in  investigating  and  un- 
covering many  scandals  involving  official  corruption  and  mis- 
management. It  has  also  covered  developments  in  the  West  Bank 
and  the  Gaza  Strip.  In  addition  to  providing  news  and  informa- 
tion, Israel's  press,  television  and  radio,  in  effect  constituted  an 
"extra-parliamentary  opposition,"  according  to  William  Frankel, 
a  British  Jewish  journalist  who  is  an  authority  on  Israel.  The  in- 
fluence of  the  press  is  considerable;  1988  estimates  were  that  on 
a  daily  basis  more  than  75  percent  of  all  adult  Israelis  read  one 
daily  newspaper  and  that  about  11  percent  read  two  or  more. 

As  of  1988,  most  daily  newspapers  were  published  in  Hebrew; 
because  Israel  is  a  nation  of  immigrants,  others  appeared  in  Arabic, 
English,  Yiddish,  Russian,  Polish,  Hungarian,  French,  and  Ger- 
man, with  weeklies  adding  more  languages  to  the  list.  Many  of 
the  country's  daily  newspapers,  particularly  the  English-language 
Jerusalem  Post  and  those  printed  in  Hebrew,  were  founded  by  Zionist 
political  parties  during  the  prestate  period,  and  they  have  continued 
to  be  politically  affiliated  with  such  parties.  Since  independence, 
however,  the  "party  newspaper"  has  declined  as  political  align- 
ments have  changed.  For  example,  the  consolidation  of  Israel's 
socialist  parties  led  to  the  demise  of  some  papers  affiliated  with  the 
former  parties.  In  addition,  the  management  and  editorial  direc- 
tion of  some  papers,  such  as  the  Jerusalem  Post  (circulation  of  30,000 
on  weekdays,  47,000  on  weekends),  has  become  increasingly  in- 
dependent, production  costs  have  risen,  and  party  supporters  have 
turned  to  rapidly  growing  independent  dailies.  Such  papers  have 
included  Ma'ariv  (Afternoon — circulation  of  147,000  on  weekdays, 
245,000  on  weekends),  Yediot  Aharonot  (Latest  News — circulation 
of  180,000  on  weekdays,  280,000  on  weekends),  Hadashot  (News), 
which  was  founded  in  1984,  and  the  influential  Ha'aretz  (The 
Land — circulation  of  55,000  on  weekdays,  75,000  on  weekends), 
an  independent  morning  daily.  Israel's  two  leading  and  politically 
liberal  dailies  have  been  Davar  (News — circulation  of  39,000),  the 
official  organ  of  the  Histadrut,  and  Al  HaMishmar  (On  Guard — 
circulation  of  25,000),  published  by  Mapam. 

In  1953  the  Editors'  Committee,  whose  prestate  name  was  the 
Redaction  Committee,  was  officially  registered  as  an  independent 
association  serving  as  a  channel  between  the  government  and  the 
press,  and  as  a  "voluntary  partner"  in  carrying  out  the  military 
censorship  code — an  arrangement  that  involved  the  exchange  of 
confidential  information  with  the  general  staff  of  the  IDF.  This 
arrangement  functioned  relatively  smoothly  as  long  as  there  was 
consensus  over  national  security  issues;  relations  between  the  press 


245 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

and  the  IDF  became  more  strained,  however,  following  the  1982 
invasion  of  Lebanon.  Another  organization  concerned  with  media 
oversight,  the  Israel  Press  Council,  came  into  being  in  1963.  The 
press  council  is  a  professional  association  responsible,  among  other 
matters,  for  administering  the  code  of  ethics  binding  journalists. 

The  Israel  Broadcasting  Authority  (IB A),  established  in  1965 
and  modeled  after  the  British  Broadcasting  Corporation,  controlled 
the  country's  radio  and  television  networks.  It  was  subject  to  the 
general  supervision  of  the  Ministry  of  Education  and  Culture.  The 
IBA,  however,  operated  autonomously  under  a  self-governing  board 
of  directors  whose  discretion  over  content  and  presentation,  with 
the  exception  of  a  stormy  period  during  Begin 's  prime  minister- 
ship, was  rarely  limited.  The  two  leading  radio  stations  were  the 
IBA  and  Galei  Tzahal  (Voice  of  the  IDF),  the  highly  popular  IDF 
broadcasting  station.  In  1968  Israeli  television  began  broadcast- 
ing in  both  Hebrew  and  Arabic. 

According  to  two  polls  conducted  in  1988  by  Public  Opinion 
Research  of  Israel,  a  plurality  of  Jewish  Israelis  (42  percent)  con- 
sidered television  news  programs  as  their  "best  source"  of  inter- 
national news,  followed  by  newspapers  (27  percent)  and  radio  (25 
percent).  Only  3  percent  of  Israelis  relied  on  magazines  to  keep 
them  informed.  These  figures  revealed  a  dramatic  shift  from  1986 
figures  that  indicated  reliance  on  newspapers  as  the  best  source 
for  news  coverage  (46  percent),  followed  by  magazines  (26  per- 
cent), and  television  (19  percent).  The  poll  attributed  the  sharp 
increase  in  reliance  on  the  broadcast  media  to  the  strong  visual 
impact  of  the  Palestinian  uprising  on  Israeli  society. 

As  of  1988,  Israeli  Arabic  language  daily  newspapers  were  led 
by  the  Jerusalem-based  Al  Anba  (The  News),  with  a  circulation  of 
about  10,000.  Rakah  also  published  an  Arabic  paper,  Al  Ittihad 
(Unity).  An  increasing  number  of  Israeli  Arabs  also  read  Hebrew 
dailies.  Al  Quds  (Jerusalem),  founded  in  1968  for  Arabs  in  Jerusa- 
lem and  the  West  Bank,  resulted  from  the  merger  of  two  veteran 
Palestinian  dailies  founded  on  the  West  Bank  following  Jordan's 
annexation  of  the  territory  in  1950.  By  1988  the  paper  had  largely 
transferred  its  operations  to  Amman.  In  the  early  1970s,  additional 
Palestinian  papers  appeared,  including  Al  Fajr  al  Jadid  (The  New 
Dawn),  with  a  circulation  of  about  3,000  to  5,000,  and  Ash  Shaab 
(The  People),  with  2,000  to  3,000  readers.  Weekly  and  monthly 
magazines  and  periodicals  published  in  Arabic  include  the  liter- 
ary monthly  Al  Jadid  (The  New);  At  Taawun  (Cooperation),  pub- 
lished by  the  Histadrut  Arab  Workers'  Department;  and  the 
Mapam  party's  Arab  organ  Al  Mir  sad  (The  Lookout).  Israeli  Arab 
and  Palestinian  newspapers  have  relied  on  Israeli  and  international 


246 


Government  and  Politics 


sources  for  their  reports  on  Israeli  government  decisions  and  ac- 
tions concerning  Israel's  Arab  community  and  Palestinian  com- 
munities on  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip. 

The  Israeli  Arab  press  has  faced  the  same  censorship  constraints 
as  have  Jewish  newspapers,  namely,  the  Press  Ordinance  of  1933. 
This  regulation  was  first  enacted  by  the  British  mandatory  author- 
ity. In  1948  it  was  adopted  by  Israel  and  administered  by  the  Minis- 
try of  Interior  to  license,  supervise,  and  regulate  the  press.  The 
IDF  had  responsibility  for  administering  censorship  regula- 
tions, and,  under  an  agreement  with  the  Editors'  Committee,  most 
Hebrew-language  newspapers  could  exercise  self-censorship,  with 
the  censor  receiving  only  articles  dealing  with  national  security  mat- 
ters. This  arrangement,  however,  did  not  cover  Palestinian  publi- 
cations in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip,  whose  editors  were 
required  to  submit  items  for  publication  to  the  military  adminis- 
tration on  a  nightly  basis.  Failure  to  abide  by  these  regulations  has 
resulted  in  warnings  and  newspaper  shutdowns.  As  a  result  of  these 
regulations,  many  West  Bank  newspapers  have  preferred  to  pub- 
lish in  Jerusalem,  which  has  less  rigid  civilian  legislation  and  courts. 
In  late  1988,  Israeli  authorities,  suspecting  Palestinian  journalists 
of  involvement  in  the  intifadah,  censored  and  shut  down  many  Pales- 
tinian newspapers  and  magazines  in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza 
Strip  and  arrested  Arab  journalists,  including  several  members  of 
the  board  of  the  Arab  Journalists'  Association. 

*    *  * 

The  literature  on  the  Israeli  political  system  is  extensive.  Useful 
bibliographies  and  bibliographical  essays  on  Israel  include  Gregory 
S.  Mahler's  Bibliography  of  Israeli  Politics;  Joshua  Sinai's  "A  Bib- 
liographic Review  of  the  Modern  History  of  Israel";  and  Books  on 
Israel:  Vol.  I,  edited  by  Ian  S.  Lustick. 

Comprehensive  studies  on  Israeli  government  and  politics  in- 
clude Yonathan  Shapiro's  HaDemokratia  Be  Yisrael;  Asher  Arian's 
Politics  in  Israel:  The  Second  Generation;  Michael  Wolffsohn's  Israel, 
Polity,  Society,  and  Economy,  1882-1986;  Bernard  Reich's,  Israel:  Land 
of  Tradition  and  Conflict;  Howard  M.  Sachar's  two-volume  A  His- 
tory of  Israel;  William  Frankel's  Israel  Observed:  An  Anatomy  of  the  State; 
Bernard  Avishai's  The  Tragedy  of  Zionism:  Revolution  and  Democracy 
in  the  Land  of  Israel;  and  Mitchell  Cohen's  Zion  and  State:  Nation, 
Class,  and  the  Shaping  of  Modern  Israel. 

Aspects  of  Israeli  government  and  politics  are  covered  in  a  ser- 
ies of  volumes  on  the  Knesset  elections  of  1969,  1973,  1977,  and 
1981 ,  edited  by  Asher  Arian;  Israel  at  the  Polls,  1981:  A  Study  of  the 


247 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Knesset  Elections,  edited  by  Howard  Penniman  and  Daniel  J.  Elazar; 
The  Roots  of  Begin 's  Success:  The  1981  Israeli  Elections,  edited  by  Dan 
Caspi,  et  al;  Israel  in  the  Begin  Era,  edited  by  Robert  O.  Freedman; 
Nathan  Yanai's  Party  Leadership  in  Israel:  Maintenance  and  Change; 
Samuel  Sager's  The  Parliamentary  System  of  Israel;  Local  Government 
in  Israel,  edited  by  Daniel  Elazar  and  Chaim  Kalchheim;  and  Yoram 
Peri's  Between  Battles  and  Ballots:  Israeli  Military  in  Politics.  Two  leading 
books  on  the  Labor  Party  are  Peter  Y.  Medding's  Mapai  in  Israel: 
Political  Organisation  and  Government  in  a  New  Society  and  Myron  J. 
Aronoff  s  Power  and  Ritual  in  the  Israel  Labor  Party.  The  religious  par- 
ties are  covered  in  S.  Zalman  Abramov's  Perpetual  Dilemma:  Jewish 
Religion  in  the  Jewish  State;  Norman  L.  Zucker's  The  Coming  Crisis 
in  Israel:  Private  Faith  and  Public  Policy;  Gary  S.  Schiff  s  Tradition  and 
Politics:  The  Religious  Parties  of  Israel;  and  Ian  S.  Lustick's  For  the 
Land  .and  the  Lord:  Jewish  Fundamentalism  in  Israel. 

Foreign  relations  are  discussed  in  Michael  Brecher's  The  Foreign 
Policy  System  of  Israel,  Decisions  in  Israel's  Foreign  Policy,  and  Decisions 
in  Crisis:  Israel,  1967  and  1973;  Bernard  Reich's  Quest  for  Peace:  United 
States-Israel  Relations  and  the  Arab-Israeli  Conflict  and  The  United  States 
and  Israel:  The  Dynamics  of  Influence;  Shlomo  Aronson's  Conflict  and 
Bargaining  in  the  Middle  East:  An  Israeli  Perspective;  Gideon  Rafael's 
Destination  Peace:  Three  Decades  of  Israeli  Foreign  Policy;  Dynamics  of 
Dependence:  U.S. -Israeli  Relations,  edited  by  Gabriel  Sheffer;  and 
Aaron  S.  Klieman's  Statecraft  in  the  Dark:  Israel's  Practice  of  Quiet 
Diplomacy.  The  Arab-Israeli  peace  process  is  discussed  in  William  B. 
Quandt's  Camp  David:  Peacemaking  and  Politics  and  Harold  H. 
Saunders's  The  Other  Walls:  The  Politics  of  the  Arab -Israeli  Peace  Process. 
Finally,  materials  on  various  peace  proposals  include  the  Brook- 
ings Institution's  report  Toward  Arab -Israeli  Peace.  (For  further  in- 
formation and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


248 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


Man  in  a  military  beret  and  woman  in  service  cap 


IN  FEW  COUNTRIES  of  the  world  have  matters  of  national  secu- 
rity played  as  pervasive  a  role  in  society  as  in  Israel.  The  Israel 
Defense  Forces  (IDF — commonly  known  in  Israel  as  Zahal,  the 
Hebrew  acronym  for  Zvah  Haganah  Le  Yisrael)  was  organized 
to  be  the  ultimate  guarantor  of  national  security.  Israeli  policy  mak- 
ers, however,  have  believed  that  strong  armed  forces  alone  were 
not  enough  to  protect  the  state.  All  of  the  state's  resources  were 
to  be  marshalled  and  applied  to  national  security.  In  1960  David 
Ben-Gurion  stated  that  Israeli  security  also  depended  on  the  inte- 
gration of  immigrants,  the  settlement  and  peopling  of  ''empty 
areas,"  the  dispersal  of  the  population  and  establishment  of  indus- 
tries throughout  the  country,  the  development  of  agriculture,  the 
"conquest  of  the  sea  and  air,"  economic  independence,  and  the 
fostering  of  research  and  scientific  skill  at  the  highest  level  of  tech- 
nology in  all  branches  of  science.  Israel's  quest  for  national  secu- 
rity has  been  a  prime  motivating  factor  behind  the  state's  rapid 
development. 

The  quest  for  national  security  also  has  imposed  great  costs  on 
the  state  and  its  citizens.  Defense  expenditures  on  a  per  capita  basis, 
and  as  a  percentage  of  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glos- 
sary), have  been  consistently  higher  in  Israel  than  in  almost  any 
other  country  in  the  world.  Moreover,  the  IDF  has  diverted  scarce 
manpower  from  the  civilian  economy,  and  Israeli  industry  has  been 
compelled  to  manufacture  military  materiel  instead  of  the  consumer 
items  that  would  raise  the  standard  of  living.  Defense  spending  has 
also  fueled  double  digit  inflation  for  protracted  periods  and  created 
a  large  national  debt. 

The  prominence  given  national  security  by  Israeli  society  stems 
from  the  perceived  massive  security  threat  posed  by  Israel's  Arab 
neighbors.  Having  founded  the  State  of  Israel  in  the  wake  of  the 
Holocaust,  in  which  Diaspora  (see  Glossary)  Jews  were  defense- 
less against  an  enemy  bent  on  their  destruction,  Israeli  Jews  were 
determined  to  devote  considerable  resources  to  defend  their  young 
nation.  In  1988  most  outside  observers  agreed  that  the  IDF  was 
stronger  than  ever  and  clearly  superior  to  the  armies  of  its  Arab 
enemies.  Unlike  the  years  after  the  June  1967  War,  however, 
Israelis  in  the  late  1980s  did  not  display  overconfidence  in  their 
defense  capability.  The  surprise  Arab  offensive  in  October  1973 
had  renewed  Israel's  fears  of  defeat  at  the  hands  of  its  Arab  ene- 
mies. Israel's  1982  invasion  of  Lebanon  restored  confidence  in  the 


251 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

tactical  superiority  of  the  IDF,  but  it  also  engendered  controversy. 
The  invasion  was  opposed  from  its  inception  by  many  Israeli  poli- 
ticians and  IDF  officers,  who  referred  to  it  as  Israel's  first  impe- 
rial war.  Moreover,  the  IDF's  victory  on  the  battlefield  was  not 
matched  by  strategic  accomplishments.  In  1988  the  IDF  confronted 
a  new  problem — sustained  protest  by  Palestinians  in  the  occupied 
territories. 

Many  observers  in  the  late  1980s  described  Israel  as  a  democratic 
garrison  state  and  a  praetorian  society.  Indeed,  in  many  respects 
Israel  resembled  an  armed  camp,  and  a  wide  range  of  government 
policies,  particularly  in  foreign  affairs,  was  dictated  by  security  con- 
siderations as  advised  by  IDF  commanders.  Unlike  many  garri- 
son states,  however,  in  Israel  the  armed  forces  played  an  indirect 
role  in  politics,  and  the  IDF  was  unlikely  to  abandon  its  tradition 
of  strict  subordination  to  civilian  authority. 

Nevertheless,  national  defense  policy  was  a  major  component 
of  civilian  politics  during  1988.  The  Palestinian  uprising  in  the  occu- 
pied territories,  known  as  the  intifadah,  created  a  new  threat  to 
Israel's  security.  Although  the  army  seemed  able  to  contain  the 
violence  militarily,  its  resources  were  strained  by  the  dual  role  of 
policing  the  territories  while  maintaining  strong  border  defenses. 
A  nationwide  debate  centered  on  the  question  of  whether  Israeli 
concessions  were  strategically  preferable  to  further  Jewish  settle- 
ment in  the  occupied  territories.  With  the  growing  sophistication 
and  deadliness  of  modern  armaments  in  the  Middle  East,  the  alter- 
native to  peace  with  Israel's  neighbors  was  the  specter  of  increas- 
ingly costly  wars.  Since  Israel's  birth  forty  years  earlier,  such 
conflicts  already  had  cost  nearly  12,000  Israeli  lives. 

Security:  A  Persistent  National  Concern 
Historical  Background 

Ancient  Jewish  military  tradition  is  deeply  rooted  in  biblical  his- 
tory and  begins  with  Abraham,  who  led  an  ad  hoc  military  force. 
Joshua,  who  conquered  Canaan,  is  an  early  hero,  and  David,  who 
captured  Jerusalem,  is  regarded  by  Israeli  Jews  as  their  greatest 
king  and  warrior.  Solomon  organized  and  maintained  the  first 
standing  Jewish  army  (see  Ancient  Israel,  ch.  1). 

Little  in  the  way  of  military  tradition  arose  out  of  the  nearly  2,000 
years  of  the  Diaspora.  In  fact,  the  lack  of  military  prowess  in  the 
Jewish  communities  of  the  Diaspora  was  commonly  viewed  as  a 
cause  of  their  hardships  and  became  a  major  motivation  for  build- 
ing a  strong  defense  establishment  within  Israel.  As  a  result  of  the 
Russian  pogroms  of  the  1880s,  a  small  number  of  Jews  began 


252 


National  Security 


settling  in  the  area  of  Palestine  and,  determined  to  end  the  centu- 
ries of  persecution,  created  self-defense  units  called  Shomrim,  or 
Guardsmen,  to  protect  the  early  settlements.  In  1909  the  Shom- 
rim were  formally  organized  throughout  the  area  of  Jewish  settle- 
ment in  Palestine  and  renamed  HaShomer,  or  the  Watchmen. 
Although  HaShomer  numbered  fewer  than  100  men  at  the  organi- 
zation's peak,  these  armed  militias  became  extremely  important 
to  Israeli  military  tradition.  Many  members  of  HaShomer  joined 
the  Jewish  Legion,  which  fought  with  the  British  against  imperial 
Germany  during  World  War  I.  They  also  established  a  precedent 
of  armed  self-defense  of  the  Zionist  movement,  which  during  the 
War  of  Independence  in  1948  would  flower  into  the  IDF. 

Increasing  tensions  between  the  Arab  communities  and  the  grow- 
ing Jewish  communities  of  Palestine  brought  the  need  to  expand 
the  capacity  of  the  Yishuv  (see  Glossary)  for  self-defense  (see  Events 
in  Palestine:  1908-48,  ch.  1).  In  1920,  after  serious  Arab  distur- 
bances in  Jerusalem  and  in  northern  Palestine,  HaShomer  militias 
were  disbanded  and  replaced  by  the  Haganah  (abbreviation  for 
Irgun  HaHaganah,  Defense  Organization),  which  was  intended 
to  be  a  larger  and  more  wide-ranging  organization  for  the  defense 
of  all  Palestinian  Jewry.  By  1948,  when  it  was  disbanded  so  that 
the  IDF  would  be  the  sole  Israeli  military  organization,  the  Haganah 
was  a  force  of  about  30,000. 

The  Haganah,  financed  originally  through  the  Zionist  General 
Federation  of  Laborers  in  the  Land  of  Israel  (HaHistadrut  HaKlalit 
shel  HaOvdim  B'Eretz  Yisrael,  known  as  Histadrut)  and  later 
through  the  Jewish  Agency  (see  Glossary),  operated  clandestinely 
under  the  British  Mandate,  which  declared  the  bearing  of  unautho- 
rized arms  by  Palestinian  Jews  to  be  illegal.  Arms  and  ammuni- 
tion were  smuggled  into  the  country,  and  training  was  conducted 
in  secret.  In  addition  to  guarding  settlements,  the  Haganah 
manufactured  arms,  built  a  series  of  roads  and  stockades  through- 
out Palestine  to  facilitate  defense,  and  organized  and  defended 
groups  of  Jewish  immigrants  during  periods  under  the  Mandate 
when  immigration  was  illegal  or  restricted. 

Arab  attacks  on  Jewish  communities  in  1921  and  1929  found 
the  Haganah  ill-equipped  and  ineffective:  more  than  100  Jews  were 
killed  in  1929  alone.  When  renewed  Arab  rioting  broke  out  in  Jaffa 
(Yafo)  in  1936  and  soon  spread  throughout  Palestine,  the  Man- 
date authorities — realizing  that  they  could  not  defend  every  Jew- 
ish settlement — authorized  the  creation  of  the  Jewish  Settlement 
Police,  also  known  as  Notrim,  who  were  trained,  armed,  and  paid 
by  the  British.  In  1938  a  British  intelligence  officer,  Captain  Orde 
Charles  Wingate,  organized  three  counterguerrilla  units,  called 


253 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

special  night  squads,  manned  by  British  and  Jewish  personnel.  As 
both  of  these  organizations  contained  a  large  number  of  Haganah 
members,  their  formation  greatly  increased  the  assets  of  the 
Haganah  while  providing  a  legal  basis  for  much  of  their  activities. 
Although  these  nearly  continuous  disturbances  from  1936  to  1939 
cost  the  lives  of  nearly  600  Jews  and  more  than  5,000  Arabs,  Israeli 
observers  have  pointed  out  that  Jewish  casualties  would  have  been 
far  greater  were  it  not  for  the  increasing  effectiveness  of  these 
paramilitary  units  (see  The  Palestinian  Revolt,  1936-39,  ch.  1). 

During  these  disturbances,  the  Haganah' s  policy  of  havlaga,  or 
self-restraint,  under  which  retaliation  against  the  Arab  community 
at  large  was  strictly  forbidden,  was  not  aggressive  enough  for  some. 
Under  Vladimir  (Zeev)  Jabotinsky  and  later  Menachem  Begin, 
these  dissidents  in  1937  established  the  National  Military  Organi- 
zation (Irgun  Zvai  Leumi,  known  both  as  the  Irgun  and  by  the 
acronym  Etzel).  Initially  the  Irgun  waged  a  campaign  of  terror, 
sabotage,  and  reprisal  against  the  Arabs.  After  the  British  govern- 
ment issued  a  white  paper  in  May  1939  extending  the  Mandate 
for  ten  years  and  placing  limits  on  Jewish  immigration,  however, 
the  Irgun  turned  its  terrorist  activities  against  the  British  troops 
in  Palestine  in  an  all-out  struggle  against  the  Mandate  authority. 

With  the  outbreak  of  World  War  II,  Irgun  leaders  settled  on 
a  policy  of  cooperation  with  the  British  in  the  war  effort;  but  a  hard 
core  within  the  organization  opposed  the  policy  and  accordingly 
split  off  from  the  larger  body.  This  group,  led  by  Avraham  Stern, 
formed  the  Fighters  for  Israel's  Freedom  (Lohamei  Herut  Israel — 
Lehi),  known  as  the  Stern  Gang.  The  Stern  Gang,  which  includ- 
ed Begin  and  later  Yitzhak  Shamir,  specialized  in  the  assassina- 
tion of  British  and  other  officials.  At  their  peaks,  the  Irgun  contained 
about  4,000  men;  the  Stern  Gang,  200  to  300.  Defeat  of  Nazi  Ger- 
many in  1945  precipitated  a  resumption  of  anti-British  activities 
by  both  Haganah  and  Irgun  in  pursuance  of  their  common  ulti- 
mate goal,  the  establishment  of  a  national  home  and  the  creation 
of  a  sovereign  Jewish  state. 

During  World  War  II,  about  32,000  Palestinian  Jews,  both  men 
and  women,  volunteered  for  the  British  army.  In  1944  about  5,000 
of  these  were  formed  into  the  Jewish  Brigade,  which  fought  suc- 
cessfully in  Italy  in  1945.  With  so  many  of  its  members  serving 
abroad,  the  ranks  of  the  Haganah  were  depleted,  and  in  1941  its 
leaders  decided  to  raise  a  mobile  force — the  Palmach  (abbrevia- 
tion of  Pelugot  Mahatz — Shock  Forces — see  Glossary) — of  approx- 
imately 3,000  full-time  soldiers,  whose  mission  was  to  defend  the 
Yishuv.  Trained  with  the  aid  of  the  British,  the  Palmach  was  the 
first  full-time  standing  Jewish  army  in  more  than  2,000  years  and 


254 


National  Security 


is  considered  the  direct  forerunner  to  the  IDF.  For  many  years, 
the  vast  majority  of  IDF  officers  were  veterans  of  either  the  Palmach 
or  the  Jewish  Brigade. 

War  of  Independence 

When  Israel  achieved  its  independence  on  May  14,  1948,  the 
Haganah  became  the  de  facto  Israeli  army.  On  that  day,  the  country 
was  invaded  by  the  regular  forces  of  Egypt,  Lebanon,  Iraq,  and 
Syria.  Eleven  days  later,  Israel's  provisional  government  issued 
an  order  that  provided  the  legal  framework  for  the  country's  armed 
forces.  The  order  established  the  official  name  Zvah  Haganah  Le 
Yisrael  and  outlawed  the  existence  of  any  other  military  force  within 
Israel. 

The  dissident  Irgun  and  Stern  Gang  were  reluctant  to  disband. 
Fighting  between  Irgun  and  regular  military  forces  broke  out  on 
June  21  when  the  supply  ship  Altalena  arrived  at  Tel  Aviv  with  900 
men  and  a  load  of  arms  and  ammunition  for  the  Irgun.  The  army 
sank  the  ship,  destroying  the  arms,  and  many  members  of  the  Irgun 
were  arrested;  both  organizations  disbanded  shortly  thereafter.  A 
more  delicate  problem  was  how  to  disband  the  Palmach,  which  had 
become  an  elite  military  unit  within  the  Haganah  and  had  strong 
political  ties  to  the  socialist-oriented  kibbutzim.  Nonetheless,  David 
Ben-Gurion,  Israel's  first  prime  minister  and  minister  of  defense, 
was  determined  to  see  the  IDF  develop  into  a  single,  professional, 
and  nonpolitical  national  armed  force .  It  was  only  through  his  skill 
and  determination  that  the  Palmach  was  peacefully  abolished  and 
integrated  into  the  IDF  in  January  1949. 

The  ranks  of  the  IDF  swelled  rapidly  to  about  100,000  at  the 
height  of  the  War  of  Independence.  Nearly  all  able-bodied  men, 
plus  many  women,  were  recruited;  thousands  of  foreign  volunteers, 
mostly  veterans  of  World  War  II,  also  came  to  the  aid  of  Israel. 
The  newly  independent  state  rapidly  mobilized  to  meet  the  Arab 
invaders;  by  July  1948,  the  Israelis  had  set  up  an  air  force,  a  navy, 
and  a  tank  battalion.  Weapons  and  ammunition  were  procured 
abroad,  primarily  from  Czechoslovakia.  Three  B-17  bombers  were 
bought  in  the  United  States  through  black  market  channels,  and 
shortly  after  one  of  them  bombed  Cairo  in  July  1948,  the  Israelis 
were  able  to  establish  air  supremacy.  Subsequent  victories  came 
in  rapid  succession  on  all  three  fronts.  The  Arab  states  negotiated 
separate  armistice  agreements.  Egypt  was  the  first  to  sign  (Febru- 
ary 1949),  followed  by  Lebanon  (March),  Transjordan  (April),  and 
finally  Syria  (July) .  Iraq  simply  withdrew  its  forces  without  sign- 
ing an  agreement.  As  a  result  of  the  war,  Israel  considerably  ex- 
panded its  territory  beyond  the  United  Nations  (UN)  partition  plan 


255 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

for  Palestine  at  the  expense  of  its  Arab  neighbors.  Victory  cost  more 
than  6,000  Israeli  lives,  however,  which  represented  approximately 
1  percent  of  the  population.  After  the  armistice,  wartime  recruits 
were  rapidly  demobilized,  and  the  hastily  raised  IDF,  still  lacking 
a  permanent  institutional  basis,  experienced  mass  resignations  from 
its  war- weary  officer  corps.  This  process  underscored  the  basic  man- 
power problem  of  a  small  population  faced  with  the  need  to  mobi- 
lize a  sizable  army  during  a  wartime  emergency.  In  1949,  after 
study  of  the  Swiss  reservist  system,  Israel  introduced  a  three-tiered 
system  based  on  a  small  standing  officer  corps,  universal  conscrip- 
tion, and  a  large  pool  of  well-trained  reservists  that  could  be  rapidly 
mobilized. 

In  early  1955,  Egypt  began  sponsoring  raids  launched  by 
fedayeen  (Arab  commandos  or  guerrillas)  from  the  Sinai  Penin- 
sula, the  Gaza  Strip,  and  Jordan,  into  Israel  (see  fig.  1).  As  the 
number  and  seriousness  of  these  raids  increased,  Israel  began 
launching  reprisal  raids  against  Arab  villages  in  Gaza  and  the  West 
Bank  (see  Glossary)  of  the  Jordan.  These  retaliatory  measures, 
which  cost  the  lives  of  Arab  civilians  and  did  little  to  discourage 
the  fedayeen,  became  increasingly  controversial  both  within  Israel 
and  abroad.  Shortly  thereafter  Israeli  reprisal  raids  were  directed 
against  military  targets,  frontier  strongholds,  police  fortresses,  and 
army  camps. 

In  addition  to  these  incidents,  which  at  times  became  confron- 
tations between  regular  Israeli  and  Arab  military  forces,  other  de- 
velopments contributed  to  the  generally  escalating  tensions  between 
Egypt  and  Israel  and  convinced  Israeli  military  officials  that  Egypt 
was  preparing  for  a  new  war.  Under  an  arms  agreement  of  1955, 
Czechoslovakia  supplied  Egypt  with  a  vast  amount  of  arms,  in- 
cluding fighter  aircraft,  tanks  and  other  armored  vehicles,  destroy- 
ers, and  submarines.  The  number  of  Egyptian  troops  deployed  in 
Sinai  along  the  Israeli  border  also  increased  dramatically  in  1956. 
In  July  Egypt  nationalized  the  Suez  Canal;  shortly  thereafter  Egypt 
closed  the  Strait  of  Tiran,  at  the  southern  tip  of  Sinai,  and  block- 
aded Israeli  shipping. 

1956  War 

Fearing  these  actions  to  be  signs  of  an  imminent  Egyptian  inva- 
sion, Israel  rapidly  mobilized  its  reserves.  On  October  29,  under 
Major  General  Moshe  Dayan,  the  IDF  launched  a  preemptive  at- 
tack into  Sinai.  Israeli  advances  on  the  ground  were  rapid,  and, 
supported  by  air  cover,  by  November  2  they  had  routed  the  Egyp- 
tian forces  and  effectively  controlled  the  entire  peninsula.  With 
Israeli  troops  on  the  east  bank  of  the  Suez  Canal,  British  and  French 


256 


United  Nations  checkpoint 
in  the  occupied  territories,  on  the  road  to  Damascus 
Courtesy  Jean  E.  Tucker 
A  view  of  a  Palestinian  refugee  camp  in  Gaza 
Courtesy  International  Committee  for  the  Red  Cross  (Jean-Luc  Ray) 


257 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


troops  landed  at  Port  Said  and  demanded  withdrawal  of  both  sides 
from  the  Canal.  The  UN  met  in  an  emergency  session  and  de- 
manded that  the  British  and  French  leave  Suez,  which  they  did 
in  December  1956  in  response  to  both  United  States  and  UN  pres- 
sure, and  that  Israel  withdraw  to  the  Armistice  line  of  1949.  which 
it  did  somewhat  reluctantly  in  March  1957  after  the  United  Nations 
Emergency  Force  (UNEF)  had  been  stationed  in  the  Gaza  Strip 
and  at  Sharm  ash  Shaykh  on  the  Strait  of  Tiran. 

Israel's  victors'  in  the  1956  War  (known  in  Israel  as  the  Sinai 
Campaign)  thus  afforded  it  a  modicum  of  increased  security  by 
virtue  of  the  UN  presence.  Far  more  important,  however,  was  that 
it  enhanced  Israel's  standing  as  a  military  power  and  as  a  viable 
nation.  Although  many  Israelis  felt  that  the  military  victory  was 
nullified  by  the  UN  demand  to  withdraw  from  Sinai.  Israel  had 
achieved  significant  psychological  gains  at  a  cost  of  fewer  than  1 70 
lives. 

The  decade  after  the  1956  War  was  the  most  tranquil  period  in 
the  nation's  history.  The  Egyptian  armistice  line  remained  quiet, 
and  there  were  few  incidents  along  the  Jordanian  line  until  1965. 
when  Egyptian- sponsored  guerrilla  raids  by  Al  Fatah  first  occurred. 
Beginning  in  1960.  there  were  repeated  guerrilla  activities  and  shell  - 
ings  of  Israeli  settlements  from  the  Golan  Heights  of  Syria,  but 
these  incidents  remained  localized  until  1964. 

Underlying  tensions,  however,  did  not  abate.  By  the  early  1960s, 
both  sides  considered  a  third  round  of  war  inevitable.  An  ominous 
arms  race  developed.  Egypt  and  Syria  were  supplied  with  Soviet 
aid  and  military  hardware,  and  Israel  suddenly  found  European 
powers — the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany).  Brit- 
ain, and  especially  France — to  be  willing  suppliers  of  modern  arma- 
ments. Jordan  continued  to  receive  arms  from  Britain  and  the 
United  States. 

Tensions  mounted  in  1964.  when,  after  Israel  had  nearly  com- 
pleted a  massive  irrigation  project  that  involved  diverting  water 
from  the  Jordan  River  into  the  Negev  Desert.  Syria  began  a  simi- 
lar project  near  the  river's  headwaters  that  would  have  virtually 
dried  the  river  bed  at  the  Israeli  location.  Israel  launched  air  and 
artillery  attacks  at  the  Syrian  site,  and  Syria  abandoned  the  project. 
Guerrilla  incursions  from  Syria  and  Jordan  steadily  mounted,  as 
did  the  intensity  of  Israeli  reprisal  raids. 

In  April  1967.  increased  Syrian  aircraft-shelling  of  Israeli  bor- 
der villages  encountered  an  Israeli  fighter  attack  during  which  six 
Syrian  MiGs  were  shot  down.  Syria  feared  that  an  all-out  attack 
from  Israel  was  imminent,  and  Egypt,  with  whom  Syria  had  re- 
cently signed  a  mutual  defense  treaty,  began  an  extensive  military 


258 


National  Security 


buildup  in  early  May.  On  May  18,  Egypt's  president,  Gamal  Abdul 
Nasser,  demanded  the  withdrawal  of  UN  forces  from  Gaza  and 
Sinai;  Secretary  General  U  Thant  promptly  acceded  and  removed 
the  UNEF.  Four  days  later,  Nasser  announced  a  blockade  of  Israeli 
shipping  at  the  Strait  of  Tiran,  an  action  that  Israel  since  the  1956 
War  had  stressed  would  be  tantamount  to  a  declaration  of  war. 
Jordan  and  Iraq  rapidly  joined  Syria  in  its  military  alliance  with 
Egypt. 

June  1967  War 

On  May  30,  mounting  public  opinion  led  to  the  appointment 
of  Dayan  as  minister  of  defense.  Levi  Eshkol,  who  had  been  both 
prime  minister  and  minister  of  defense  since  Ben-Gurion's  resig- 
nation in  1963,  retained  the  prime  minister's  position.  Dayan  im- 
mediately made  a  series  of  public  declarations  that  war  could  be 
avoided,  while  secredy  planning  a  massive  preemptive  strike  against 
the  Arab  enemy.  On  the  morning  of  June  5,  Israel  launched  a 
devastating  attack  on  Arab  air  power,  destroying  about  300  Egyp- 
tian, 50  Syrian,  and  20  Jordanian  aircraft,  mostly  on  the  ground. 
This  action,  which  virtually  eliminated  the  Arab  air  forces,  was 
immediately  followed  by  ground  invasions  into  Sinai  and  the  Gaza 
Strip,  Jordan,  and  finally  Syria.  Arab  ground  forces,  lacking  air 
support,  were  routed  on  all  three  fronts;  by  the  time  the  UN- 
imposed  cease-fire  took  effect  in  the  evening  of  June  1 1 ,  the  IDF 
had  seized  the  entire  Sinai  Peninsula  to  the  east  bank  of  the  Suez 
Canal;  the  West  Bank  of  Jordan,  including  East  Jerusalem;  and 
the  Golan  Heights  of  Syria.  Unlike  the  aftermath  of  the  1956  War, 
however,  the  IDF  did  not  withdraw  from  the  areas  it  occupied  in 
1967. 

Israel  was  ecstatic  about  its  swift  and  stunning  victory,  which 
had  been  achieved  at  the  relatively  low  cost  of  about  700  lives.  The 
IDF  had  proven  itself  superior  to  the  far  larger  forces  of  the  com- 
bined Arab  armies.  More  important,  it  now  occupied  the  territory 
that  had  harbored  immediate  security  threats  to  Israel  since  1948. 
For  the  first  time  since  independence,  the  Israeli  heartland  along 
the  Mediterranean  Sea  was  out  of  enemy  artillery  range.  The  ex- 
ploits of  what  was  known  in  Israel  as  the  Six-Day  War  soon  be- 
came legend,  and  the  commanders  who  led  it  became  national 
heros. 

Although  control  of  the  occupied  territories  greatly  improved 
Israel's  security  from  a  geographical  standpoint,  it  also  created  new 
problems.  The  roughly  1  million  Arabs  within  the  territories  pro- 
vided potential  cover  and  support  for  infiltration  and  sabotage  by 
Arab  guerrillas.  From  shortly  after  the  June  1967  War  until  1970, 


259 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

a  steady  stream  of  men  and  weapons  were  sent  into  the  West  Bank 
by  a  number  of  guerrilla  groups,  in  particular  Al  Fatah  (see  Pales- 
tinian Terrorist  Groups,  this  ch.).  Incidents  of  sabotage  and  clashes 
with  Israeli  security  forces  were  commonplace.  In  the  spring  of  1970, 
the  guerrilla  strategy  reverted  to  shelling  Israeli  towns  from  across 
the  Jordanian  and  Lebanese  borders.  International  terrorism,  aimed 
at  focusing  world  attention  on  the  grievances  of  Palestinian  Arabs 
against  Israel,  also  appeared  after  the  June  1967  War. 

Hostilities  on  the  Egyptian  front  were  far  more  serious.  The  deci- 
mated Egyptian  army  was  rapidly  resupplied  with  advanced  Soviet 
weapons,  and  the  Soviet  presence  at  the  Suez  Canal  increased  dra- 
matically. In  October  1967,  the  Israeli  destroyer  and  flagship  Elat 
was  sunk  by  a  missile  fired  from  an  Egyptian  ship  docked  in  Port 
Said;  Israel  retaliated  with  the  destruction  of  Egyptian  oil  refiner- 
ies at  Suez.  A  year  later,  shelling  began  along  the  canal,  and  a 
new  round  of  fighting,  commonly  known  as  the  War  of  Attrition, 
commenced.  For  nearly  two  years,  until  a  new  cease-fire  was  im- 
posed on  August  7,  1970,  Egypt  (with  growing  and  direct  support 
from  the  Soviet  Union)  threw  an  increasingly  heavy  barrage  of  ar- 
tillery and  missiles  at  fortified  Israeli  positions  along  the  east  bank 
of  the  canal,  while  Israel  stood  its  ground  and  launched  a  series 
of  fighter-bomber  raids  deep  into  the  Egyptian  heartland.  This 
deadly  but  inconclusive  conflict  culminated  on  July  30,  1970,  when 
Israeli  and  Soviet-piloted  fighters  clashed  in  a  dogfight  near  the 
Suez  Canal.  Israeli  pilots  reportedly  shot  down  four  MiGs  and  lost 
none  of  their  own,  but  this  direct  confrontation  with  a  nuclear  super- 
power was  a  frightening  development  and  helped  bring  about  the 
cease-fire. 

Although  activity  aimed  against  Israel  by  Palestinian  guerrillas 
continued  throughout  the  early  1970s,  Israel  felt  relatively  secure 
vis-a-vis  its  Arab  neighbors  after  the  War  of  Attrition.  Israel's  mili- 
tary intelligence  was  convinced  that  Syria  would  launch  a  war  only 
in  concert  with  Egypt  and  that  Egypt  would  go  to  war  only  if  it 
were  convinced  that  its  air  power  was  superior  to  Israel's.  This 
theory,  which  became  so  institutionalized  in  Israeli  military  thinking 
as  to  be  dubbed  "the  concept,"  contributed  to  the  country's  general 
sense  of  security.  Defense  expenditures  declined  markedly  from 
1970  levels,  the  annual  reserve  call-up  was  reduced  from  sixty  to 
thirty  days,  and  in  1973  the  length  of  conscription  was  reduced 
from  thirty- six  to  thirty- three  months. 

October  1973  War 

The  October  1973  War  (known  in  Israel  as  the  Yom  Kippur 
War  and  in  the  Arab  world  as  the  Ramadan  War)  developed 


260 


Israeli  liaison  officers  visit  beduins 
in  the  southern  Sinai  Peninsula,  November  1975 
Courtesy  United  Nations  (Zuhair  Saade) 

rapidly,  and  the  coordinated  Egyptian-Syrian  offensive  caught  Israel 
by  surprise.  On  September  28,  Palestinian  guerrillas  detained  an 
Austrian  train  carrying  Soviet  Jews  en  route  to  Israel.  Subsequent 
Egyptian  and  Syrian  military  deployments  were  interpreted  by 
Israel  as  defensive  actions  in  anticipation  of  Israeli  reprisals.  For 
one  week,  Israel  postponed  mobilizing  its  troops.  Not  until  the 
morning  of  Yom  Kippur  (October  6),  about  six  hours  before  the 
Arab  offensive,  were  Israeli  officials  convinced  that  war  was  im- 
minent; a  mobilization  of  the  reserves  was  then  ordered.  In  the 
early  days  of  the  war,  the  IDF  suffered  heavy  losses  as  Egyptian 
forces  crossed  the  Suez  Canal  and  overran  Israeli  strongholds,  while 
Syrians  marched  deep  into  the  Golan  Heights.  Israel  launched  its 
counteroffensive  first  against  the  Syrian  front,  and  only  when  it 
had  pushed  the  Syrians  back  well  east  of  the  1967  cease-fire  line 
(by  October  15)  did  Israel  turn  its  attention  to  the  Egyptian  front. 
In  ten  days  of  fighting,  Israel  pushed  the  Egyptian  army  back  across 
the  canal,  and  the  IDF  made  deep  incursions  into  Egypt.  On  Octo- 
ber 24,  with  Israeli  soldiers  about  one  kilometer  from  the  main 
Cairo-Ismailia  highway  and  the  Soviet  Union  threatening  direct 
military  intervention,  the  UN  imposed  a  cease-fire. 

After  several  months  of  negotiations,  during  which  sporadic  fight- 
ing continued,  Israel  reached  a  disengagement  agreement  in 


261 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


January  1974,  whereby  the  IDF  withdrew  across  the  canal  and 
Israeli  and  Egyptian  troops  were  separated  in  Sinai  by  a  UNEF- 
manned  buffer  zone.  Israel  signed  a  similar  agreement  with  Syria 
on  May  31,  1974,  whereby  Israel  withdrew  to  the  1967  cease-fire 
line  in  the  Golan  Heights  and  a  United  Nations  Disengagement 
Observer  Force  (UNDOF)  occupied  a  buffer  zone  between  Israeli 
and  Syrian  forces.  On  September  4,  1975,  after  further  negotia- 
tions, the  Second  Sinai  Disengagement  Agreement  was  signed  be- 
tween Egypt  and  Israel  that  widened  the  buffer  zone  and  secured 
a  further  Israeli  withdrawal  to  the  east  of  the  strategic  Gidi  and 
Mitla  passes. 

Israel's  military  victory  in  1973  came  at  a  heavy  price  of  more 
than  2,400  lives  and  an  estimated  US$5  billion  in  equipment,  of 
which  more  than  US$1  billion  was  airlifted  by  the  United  States 
during  the  war  when  it  became  apparent  that  Israel's  ammunition 
stores  were  dangerously  low.  This  action,  and  the  threatened  Soviet 
intervention,  raised  more  clearly  than  ever  the  specter  of  the  Arab- 
Israeli  conflict  escalating  rapidly  into  a  confrontation  between  the 
superpowers.  The  October  1973  War  also  cost  Israel  its  self- 
confidence  in  its  military  superiority  over  its  Arab  enemy.  The 
government  appointed  a  special  commission,  headed  by  Chief 
Justice  Shimon  Agranat,  president  of  the  Israeli  Supreme  Court, 
to  investigate  why  Israel  had  been  caught  by  surprise  and  why  so 
much  had  gone  wrong  during  the  war  itself.  The  commission's 
report,  completed  in  January  1975,  was  highly  critical  of  the  per- 
formance of  the  IDF  on  several  levels,  including  intelligence  gather- 
ing, discipline  within  the  ranks,  and  the  mobilization  of  reserves. 
The  euphoria  of  the  post- 1967  era  faded. 

1982  Invasion  of  Lebanon 

Since  1970,  Israeli  settlements  near  the  southern  border  of 
Lebanon  had  been  exposed  to  harassing  attacks  from  forces  of  the 
Palestine  Liberation  Organization  (PLO),  which  had  been  driven 
out  of  Jordan.  On  three  occasions,  in  1970,  1972,  and  1978,  Israel 
had  retaliated  by  ground  operations  carried  out  up  to  Lebanon's 
Litani  River.  The  inhabitants  of  southern  Lebanon  deeply  resented 
the  conversion  of  their  region  to  a  battlefield  by  the  PLO.  Sup- 
ported by  Israeli  arms  and  training  since  1973,  they  formed  a  militia 
under  Saad  Haddad,  a  major  in  the  Lebanese  Army.  Israeli  sup- 
port was  gradually  extended  to  other  Christian  militias,  including 
the  Phalangist  movement  of  Pierre  Jumayyil  (also  seen  as  Gemayel), 
as  the  Christian  Maronites  increasingly  found  themselves  pressured 
by  the  involvement  of  the  PLO  in  the  1975  Lebanese  Civil  War. 
A  complicating  element  was  the  presence  of  the  Syrian  army  in 


262 


National  Security 


Lebanon,  tolerated  by  Israel  on  the  understanding  that  Israel's  secu- 
rity interests  in  southern  Lebanon  would  not  be  threatened. 

The  Israeli  government  rejected  appeals  by  Maronite  Christians 
for  direct  Israeli  military  intervention  to  evict  the  PLO  and  Syrians 
from  Lebanon.  Pierre  Jumayyil's  son  Bashir,  however,  determined 
to  embroil  Israel  against  Syria,  staged  an  incident  in  1981  in  the 
city  of  Zahlah  using  approximately  100  Phalangist  militiamen  who 
had  been  infiltrated  to  attack  Syrian  positions.  Jumayyil  persuaded 
Israel  to  honor  an  earlier  pledge  for  air  strikes,  which  resulted  in 
the  downing  of  two  Syrian  helicopter  transports.  Syrian  President 
Hafiz  al  Assad  responded  by  stationing  SA-6  surface-to-air  mis- 
siles (SAMs)  in  the  vicinity  of  Zahlah.  Other  SAMs  and  surface- 
to-surface  missiles  were  deployed  on  the  Syrian  side  of  the  border. 
Although  the  Phalangists  abandoned  Zahlah,  the  net  effect  was  that 
Syrian  air  defense  missiles  were  deployed  in  Lebanon,  a  situation 
that  Israel  regarded  as  an  unacceptable  shift  in  the  balance  of  power 
in  the  area. 

Meanwhile  Israel  had  conducted  preemptive  shelling  and  air 
strikes  to  deter  PLO  terrorist  attacks  on  settlements  in  Galilee  in 
northern  Israel.  The  PLO  fought  back  by  shelling  Israeli  towns 
in  Upper  Galilee  and  coastal  areas,  especially  after  a  devastating 
Israeli  air  raid  against  a  heavily  populated  Palestinian  neighborhood 
in  West  Beirut  that  killed  more  than  100  people  and  wounded  more 
than  600.  In  July  1981,  United  States  Middle  East  Special  Am- 
bassador Philip  Habib  negotiated  a  truce  in  the  artillery  duel.  Dur- 
ing this  cease-fire,  PLO  leader  Yasir  Arafat  reinforced  his  position 
by  purchases  of  artillery  rockets  and  obsolete  tanks  of  Soviet 
manufacture.  The  forces  under  his  control,  the  Palestine  Libera- 
tion Army  (PL A),  were  transformed  from  a  decentralized  assem- 
blage of  terrorist  and  guerrilla  bands  to  a  standing  army. 

When,  in  early  June  1982,  terrorists  of  the  Abu  Nidal  organi- 
zation, a  PLO  splinter  group,  badly  wounded  the  Israeli  ambas- 
sador in  London  during  an  assassination  attempt,  Israel  seized  the 
pretext  for  launching  its  long-planned  offensive.  The  Israeli  cabi- 
net's authorization  for  the  invasion,  named  Operation  Peace  for 
Galilee,  set  strict  limits  on  the  incursion.  The  IDF  was  to  advance 
no  farther  than  forty  kilometers,  the  operation  was  to  last  only 
twenty-four  hours,  there  would  be  no  attack  on  Syrian  forces  and 
no  approach  to  Beirut.  Because  of  these  limits,  the  IDF  did  not 
openly  acknowledge  its  actual  objectives.  As  a  result,  the  IDF  ad- 
vance unfolded  in  an  ad  hoc  and  disorganized  fashion,  greatly  in- 
creasing the  difficulty  of  the  operation. 

When  IDF  ground  forces  crossed  into  Lebanon  on  June  6,  five 
divisions  and  two  reinforced  brigade-size  units  conducted  the 


263 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

three-pronged  attack.  On  the  western  axis,  two  divisions  converged 
on  Tyre  and  proceeded  north  along  the  coastal  highway  toward 
Sidon,  where  they  were  to  link  up  with  an  amphibious  command 
unit  that  had  secured  a  beachhead  north  of  the  city.  In  the  central 
sector,  a  third  division  veered  diagonally  across  southern  Leba- 
non, conquered  the  Palestinian-held  Beaufort  Castle,  and  headed 
west  toward  Sidon,  where  it  linked  up  with  the  coastal  force  in  a 
pincer  movement.  The  PLO  was  the  only  group  to  resist  the  IDF 
advance.  Although  many  PLO  officers  fled,  abandoning  their  men, 
the  Palestinian  resistance  proved  tenacious.  In  house-to-house  and 
hand-to-hand  combat  in  the  sprawling  refugee  camps  near  Tyre 
and  Sidon,  the  Palestinians  inflicted  high  casualties  on  the  IDF. 
In  the  eastern  sector,  two  Israeli  divisions  thrust  directly  north  into 
Syrian-held  territory  to  sever  the  strategic  Beirut-Damascus  high- 
way. A  brigade  of  Syrian  commandos,  however,  ambushed  the 
Israeli  column  in  mountainous  terrain,  approximately  five  kilo- 
meters short  of  the  highway.  Syria's  strong  air  defense  system 
prevented  the  Israeli  air  force  from  attacking  the  entrenched  Syrian 
positions.  Nevertheless,  in  a  surprise  attack  on  Syrian  SAM  sites 
in  the  Biqa  Valley,  the  Israelis  destroyed  seventeen  of  nineteen  bat- 
teries. The  Syrian  air  force  was  decimated  in  a  desperate  air  battle 
to  protect  the  air  defense  system. 

With  total  air  superiority,  the  IDF  mauled  the  Syrian  First 
Armored  Division,  although  in  the  grueling  frontal  attacks  the 
Israelis  also  suffered  heavy  casualties.  Still  stalled  short  of  the  Beirut- 
Damascus  highway,  the  IDF  was  on  the  verge  of  a  breakthrough 
when,  on  June  11,  Israel  bowed  to  political  pressure  and  agreed 
to  a  truce  under  United  States  auspices  (see  fig.  12). 

The  Siege  of  Beirut  and  Its  Aftermath 

The  cease-fire  signaled  the  start  of  a  new  stage  in  the  war,  as 
Israel  focused  on  PLO  forces  trapped  in  Beirut.  Although  Israel 
had  long  adhered  to  the  axiom  that  conquering  and  occupying  an 
Arab  capital  would  be  a  political  and  military  disaster,  key  Israeli 
leaders  were  determined  to  drive  the  PLO  out  of  Beirut.  Israel  main- 
tained the  siege  of  Beirut  for  seventy  days,  unleashing  a  relentless 
air,  naval,  and  artillery  bombardment.  The  Israeli  air  force  con- 
ducted what  was  called  a  ' '  manhunt  by  air"  for  Arafat  and  his 
lieutenants  and  on  several  occasions  bombed  premises  only  minutes 
after  the  PLO  leadership  had  vacated  them.  If  the  PLO  was  hurt 
physically  by  the  bombardments,  the  appalling  civilian  casualties 
earned  Israel  world  opprobrium.  Morale  plummeted  among  IDF 
officers  and  enlisted  men,  many  of  whom  personally  opposed  the 
war.  Lebanese  leaders  petitioned  Arafat,  who  had  threatened  to 


264 


National  Security 


fight  the  IDF  until  the  last  man,  to  abandon  Beirut  to  spare  fur- 
ther civilian  suffering.  Arafat's  condition  for  withdrawal  was  that 
a  multinational  peacekeeping  force  be  deployed  to  protect  the  Pales- 
tinian families  left  behind.  Syria  and  Tunisia  agreed  to  host  depart- 
ing PLO  fighters.  An  advance  unit  of  the  Multinational  Force,  350 
French  troops,  arrived  in  Beirut  on  August  1 1 ,  followed  within  one 
week  by  a  contingent  of  800  United  States  marines.  By  Septem- 
ber 1,  approximately  8,000  Palestinian  guerrillas,  2,600  PLA  regu- 
lars, and  3,600  Syrian  troops  had  evacuated  West  Beirut. 

Taking  stock  of  the  war's  toll,  Israel  announced  the  death  of  344 
of  its  soldiers  and  the  wounding  of  more  than  2,000.  Israel  calcu- 
lated that  hundreds  of  Syrian  soldiers  had  been  killed  and  more 
than  1,000  wounded,  and  that  1,000  Palestinian  guerrillas  had  been 
killed  and  7,000  captured.  By  Lebanese  estimates,  17,825  Lebanese 
had  died  and  more  than  30,000  had  been  wounded. 

On  the  evening  of  September  12,  1982,  the  IDF,  having  sur- 
rounded the  Palestinian  refugee  camps  of  Sabra  and  Shatila,  dis- 
patched 300  to  400  Christian  militiamen  into  the  camps  to  rout 
what  was  believed  to  be  the  remnant  of  the  PLO  forces.  The  militia- 
men were  mostly  Phalangists  but  also  included  members  of  the 
Israeli-sponsored  South  Lebanon  Army  (SLA).  The  IDF  ordered 
its  soldiers  to  refrain  from  entering  the  camps,  but  IDF  officers 
supervised  the  operation  from  the  roof  of  a  six-story  building  over- 
looking part  of  the  area.  According  to  the  report  of  the  Kahan  Com- 
mission created  later  by  the  Israeli  government  to  investigate  the 
events,  the  IDF  monitored  the  Phalangist  radio  network  and  fired 
flares  from  mortars  and  aircraft  to  illuminate  the  area.  Over  a  period 
of  two  days,  the  Christian  militiamen  massacred  700  to  800  Pales- 
tinian men,  women,  and  children. 

Minister  of  Defense  Ariel  Sharon,  the  architect  of  Israel's  war 
in  Lebanon,  was  forced  to  resign  his  portfolio  in  the  wake  of  the 
Sabra  and  Shatila  investigation,  although  he  remained  in  the  cabi- 
net. He  was  replaced  by  former  ambassador  to  the  United  States 
Moshe  Arens,  who  wanted  Israel  to  withdraw  promptly  from 
Lebanon,  if  only  to  avoid  further  antagonizing  Washington. 

Israel  withdrew  its  forces  to  the  outskirts  of  the  capital  but  it  no 
longer  had  a  clear  tactical  mission  in  Lebanon.  Israel  intended  its 
continued  presence  to  be  a  bargaining  chip  to  negotiate  a  Syrian 
withdrawal.  While  awaiting  a  political  agreement,  the  IDF  had  to 
fight  a  different  kind  of  war.  Turned  into  a  static  and  defensive 
garrison  force,  it  was  now  caught  in  a  crossfire  between  warring 
factions.  Its  allies  in  Lebanon,  the  Christian  Maronite  militias, 
proved  to  be  incapable  of  providing  day-to-day  security  and  hold- 
ing territory  taken  from  the  PLO.  The  hostility  engendered  among 


265 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


A 


LEBANON 


Mediterranean 
Sea 


Ad 
Damur 


Tyre 


SYRIA 


y  Damascus 


ISRAEL 

Boundary  representation 
i      not  necessarily  authoritative 


^  k  (  )  ^  (SQkAN  . 
S*         »  iipppnf  HEIGHTS 

/  y    i  /  V  •'  / 


✓  .'  United  Nations  Disengagement 
'  ■  /  Observer  Force  Zone 


International 
boundary 

Armistice  line,  1949 

Northern  limit  of 
Israeli  advance 
on  June  11,1982 

• 

Populated  place 

Road 

Israel  Defense  Forces 
line  of  advance 

Israel  Defense  Forces 
amphibious  assault 

0      5  10 

15  Kilometers 

0  5 

10        15  Miles 

Figure  12.  Israel's  1982  Invasion  of  Lebanon 


the  predominant  Shia  population  of  southern  Lebanon  over  the 
prolonged  Israeli  occupation  was  in  some  ways  potentially  more 
dangerous  than  the  threat  posed  by  Palestinian  guerrillas.  In 
November  1983,  the  blowing  up  of  the  Israeli  command  post  in 
Tyre  signaled  the  beginning  of  full-scale  guerrilla  warfare  by  Shia 
groups,  some  of  which  were  linked  militarily  and  ideologically  to 
Iran.  During  1984,  more  than  900  attacks — hit-and-run  ambushes, 
grenade  assaults,  and  antipersonnel  mine  detonations — took  place 
upon  Israeli  troops.  Realizing  that  to  attempt  to  hold  a  hostile  region 
like  southern  Lebanon  indefinitely  contravened  its  basic  strategic 
doctrine,  the  IDF  pulled  back  its  forces  between  January  and  June 
1985,  leaving  only  a  token  force  to  patrol  a  narrow  security  zone 
with  its  proxy,  the  SLA. 

Israeli  Concepts  of  National  Security 

The  need  for  a  strong  military  posture  in  the  face  of  the  perceived 


266 


National  Security 


Arab  threats  to  Israel's  survival  has  been  endorsed  with  near  una- 
nimity by  Israeli  policy  makers  and  citizens.  Nevertheless,  the  ques- 
tion of  which  strategies  best  ensure  national  defense  has  often  caused 
acrimonious  national,  as  well  as  international,  controversy.  Events 
subsequent  to  Ben-Gurion's  initial  concepts  of  national  security 
laid  down  when  Israel  was  founded  in  1948,  particularly  Israel's 
occupation  of  Arab  territories  since  the  June  1967  War,  have  modi- 
fied the  foundations  for  Israel's  concepts  of  national  security. 

Dormant  War 

Israelis  traditionally  viewed  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict  as  a  strug- 
gle for  survival,  convinced  that  even  one  military  defeat  would  mean 
the  end  of  their  country.  National  defense  became  the  first  prior- 
ity, with  proportionately  more  human  and  material  resources  de- 
voted to  defense  than  in  any  other  nation  in  the  world.  Israelis 
regarded  major  conflicts,  such  as  occurred  in  1967  and  1973,  as 
"rounds"  or  battles  in  a  continuous  war.  Even  when  it  was  not 
engaged  in  outright  combat  with  its  Arab  enemies,  Israel  remained 
in  what  General  Yitzhak  Rabin,  who  became  minister  of  defense 
in  1984,  called  a  "dormant  war"  that,  "like  a  volcano,"  could 
erupt  with  little  warning  into  a  major  conflagration. 

Extensive  Threat 

Another  premise  was  that  every  Arab  country  was  at  least  a 
potential  member  of  a  unified  pan-Arab  coalition  that  could  at- 
tack Israel — a  concept  sometimes  referred  to  by  Israeli  strategic 
planners  as  the  "extensive  threat."  To  confront  this  extensive 
threat,  the  IDF  aimed  to  have  the  capability  to  defend  Israel  not 
only  against  an  attack  by  a  single  Arab  adversary  or  an  alliance 
of  several  Arab  states,  but  also  against  the  combined  forces  of  all 
Arab  countries.  Israeli  strategists  felt  that  planning  for  such  a  worst- 
case  scenario  was  prudent  because  Arab  states  had  often  rhetori- 
cally threatened  such  a  combined  attack.  The  concept  of  extensive 
threat  also  justified  requests  for  greater  military  aid  from  the  United 
States  and  protests  against  United  States  military  support  of  moder- 
ate Arab  states  that,  from  the  American  perspective,  posed  no  credi- 
ble threat  to  Israel's  security.  Some  Israeli  military  leaders  insisted 
that,  despite  the  1978  Camp  David  Accords,  Egypt  remained  a 
major  potential  enemy  in  any  future  Arab-Israeli  war.  Moreover, 
some  Israeli  strategists  worried  about  threats  from  outside  the  Arab 
world.  In  a  1981  speech,  then  Minister  of  Defense  Sharon  stated 
that  "Israel's  sphere  of  strategic  and  security  interests  must  be 
broadened  in  the  1980s"  to  confront  new  adversaries  in  Africa  and 


267 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Asia,  and  cited  Pakistan  as  one  potential  threat.  Some  strategists 
even  envisioned  Israeli  clashes  with  Iran  and  India. 

At  the  other  end  of  the  spectrum  were  those  who  felt  that  the 
concept  of  extensive  threat  exaggerated  the  danger  to  Israel.  Some 
Israeli  strategists  argued  in  the  late  1980s  that  the  Arab-Israeli  con- 
flict was  evolving  into  a  bilateral  contest  between  Israel  and  Syria 
to  which  other  Arab  actors  were  becoming  peripheral.  They  con- 
sidered that  the  IDF  for  pragmatic  reasons  should  deploy  its  lim- 
ited resources  to  counter  the  threat  of  a  cross-border  attack  by  Syria. 
Speaking  in  1987,  Minister  of  Defense  Rabin  stated  that  Egypt 
had  placed  itself  "outside  the  circle  of  nations  at  war  with  Israel" 
and  that  the  Treaty  of  Peace  Between  Egypt  and  Israel  had  "sig- 
nificantly altered  the  Middle  East  balance  of  power  in  Israel's 
favor." 

Demographic  and  geographic  pressures  arising  from  Israel's  small 
size  and  concentrated  population  meant  that  a  war  fought  within 
Israel  would  be  extremely  costly  in  terms  of  civilian  casualties  and 
damage  to  the  economic  infrastructure.  Morale  and,  hence,  fu- 
ture immigration  would  also  suffer.  It  was  therefore  an  ironclad 
rule  of  Israeli  strategists  to  transfer  military  action  to  enemy  terri- 
tory, and  no  regular  Arab  troops  have  hit  on  Israeli  soil  since  1948. 
Because  Israel  could  never  defeat  its  Arab  enemy  permanently,  no 
matter  how  many  victories  or  "rounds"  it  won  on  the  battlefield, 
and  because  in  each  full-scale  war  it  incurred  the  risk,  however 
minimal,  of  combat  being  conducted  on  its  territory  or  even  a  defeat 
that  would  destroy  the  state,  Israel's  official  policy  was  to  avoid 
all-out  war  unless  attacked.  Deterrence  therefore  became  the  main 
pillar  of  Israel's  national  security  doctrine. 

Strategic  Depth 

Israel  considered  an  offensive  rather  than  a  defensive  strategy 
the  best  deterrent  to  Arab  attack.  Because  of  the  absence  until  1967 
of  the  depth  of  terrain  essential  for  strategic  defense,  Israel  could 
ensure  that  military  action  was  conducted  on  Arab  territory  only 
by  attacking  first.  Moreover,  Israel  feared  that  a  passive  defensive 
strategy  would  permit  the  Arabs,  secure  in  the  knowledge  that  Israel 
would  not  fight  unless  attacked,  to  wage  a  protracted  low-level  war 
of  attrition,  engage  in  brinkmanship  through  incremental  escala- 
tion, or  mobilize  for  war  with  impunity.  Paradoxically,  then,  the 
policy  of  deterrence  dictated  that  Israel  always  had  to  strike  first. 
The  Israeli  surprise  attack  could  be  a  "preemptive"  attack  in  the 
face  of  an  imminent  Arab  attack,  an  unprovoked  "preventive" 
attack  to  deal  the  Arab  armies  a  setback  that  would  stave  off  fu- 
ture attack,  or  a  massive  retaliation  for  a  minor  Arab  infraction. 


268 


National  Security 


Israel  justified  such  attacks  by  the  concept  that  it  was  locked  in 
permanent  conflict  with  the  Arabs. 

The  occupation  of  conquered  territories  in  1967  gready  increased 
Israel's  strategic  depth,  and  Israeli  strategic  thinking  changed  ac- 
cordingly. Many  strategists  argued  that  the  IDF  could  now  adopt 
a  defensive  posture,  absorb  a  first  strike,  and  then  retaliate  with 
a  counteroffensive.  The  October  1973  War  illustrated  that  this 
thinking  was  at  least  partially  correct.  With  the  added  security  buffer 
of  the  occupied  territories,  Israel  could  absorb  a  first  strike  and 
retaliate  successfully. 

But  when  Sharon  was  appointed  minister  of  defense  in  1981, 
he  advocated  that  Israel  revert  to  the  more  aggressive  pre- 1967 
strategy.  Sharon  argued  that  the  increased  mechanization  and  mo- 
bility of  Arab  armies,  combined  with  the  increased  range  of  Arab 
surface-to-surface  missile  systems  (SSMs),  nullified  the  strategic 
insulation  and  advanced  warning  that  the  occupied  territories  af- 
forded Israel.  Israel,  therefore,  faced  the  same  threat  that  it  had 
before  1967  and,  incapable  of  absorbing  a  first  strike,  should  be 
willing  to  launch  preventive  and  preemptive  strikes  against  poten- 
tial Arab  threats.  After  the  1982  invasion  of  Lebanon,  for  which 
Sharon  was  substantially  responsible,  the  aggressive  national  secu- 
rity posture  that  he  advocated  waned  in  popularity.  By  1988, 
however,  Iraq's  use  of  SSMs  against  Iran  and  Saudi  Arabia's  ac- 
quisition of  long-range  SSMs  from  China  suggested  to  some  Israeli 
strategists  that  the  concepts  of  extensive  threat  and  preemption 
should  again  be  given  more  weight. 

Potential  Causes  of  War 

Israel  made  clear  to  the  Arabs  that  certain  actions,  even  if  not 
overtly  hostile  or  aimed  at  Israel,  would  trigger  an  Israeli  preemp- 
tive attack.  Israel  announced  various  potential  causes  of  war.  Some 
causes,  such  as  interference  with  Israeli  freedom  of  navigation  in 
the  Strait  of  Tiran,  were  officially  designated  as  such.  In  1982 
Sharon  listed  four  actions  that  would  lead  to  an  attack:  the  attempt 
by  an  Arab  country  to  acquire  or  manufacture  an  atomic  bomb, 
the  militarization  of  the  Sinai  Peninsula,  the  entry  of  the  Iraqi  army 
into  Jordan,  and  the  supply  of  sophisticated  United  States  arms 
to  Jordan.  In  1988  the  government  of  Israel  continued  to  commu- 
nicate potential  causes  to  its  Arab  adversaries.  Their  tacit  acquies- 
cence in  these  unilateral  Israeli  demands  constituted  a  system  of 
unwritten  but  mutually  understood  agreements  protecting  the  short- 
term  status  quo. 

Since  the  establishment  of  Israel,  the  IDF  has  been  obliged  to 
deal  with  terrorist  actions,  cross-border  raids,  and  artillery  and 


269 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


missile  barrages  of  the  various  Palestinian  organizations  under  the 
loose  leadership  of  the  PLO.  The  IDF*s  approach  in  contending 
with  PLO  activity  has  combined  extreme  vigilance  with  prompt 
and  damaging  retaliatory  measures,  including"  punishment  of  Arab 
nations  giving  sanctuarv  to  terrorists  and  guerrillas.  The  presence 
of  innocent  noncombatants  was  not  accepted  as  a  reason  for  with- 
holding counterstrikes.  Although  striving  to  limit  harm  to  unin- 
volved  persons,  the  Israelis  gave  priority  to  the  need  to  demonstrate 
that  acts  of  terrorism  would  meet  with  quick  retribution  in  painful 
and  unpredictable  forms. 

Israeli  strategists  believed  the  periodic  outbreak  of  war  to  be  vir- 
tually inevitable  and  that  once  war  broke  out  it  was  essential  that 
it  be  brief  and  lead  to  decisive  victory.  The  requirement  of  a  rapid 
war  followed  from  at  least  two  factors.  During  full  mobilization, 
virtually  the  entire  Israeli  population  was  engaged  in  the  defense 
effort  and  the  peacetime  economy  ground  to  a  halt.  Sustaining  full 
mobilization  for  more  than  several  weeks  would  prove  disastrous 
to  the  economy,  and  stockpiling  sufficient  supplies  for  a  long  war 
would  be  difficult  and  very  costly.  Experience  from  past  wars  also 
showed  Israel  that  prolonged  hostilities  invited  superpower  inter- 
vention. As  a  result.  Israeli  strategists  stressed  the  need  to  create 
a  clear  margin  of  victory  before  a  cease-fire  was  imposed  from  the 
outside.  This  concept  was  extended  in  the  1980s,  when  Israeli  mili- 
tarv  leaders  formulated  the  strategy-  of  engaging  m  a  "war  of  an- 
nihilation" in  the  event  of  a  new  round  of  all-out  warfare.  Israel's 
goal  would  be  to  destroy  the  .Arab  armies  so  completely  as  to 
preclude  a  military  threat  for  ten  years .  Such  a  scenario  might  prove 
elusive,  however,  because  destroyed  equipment  could  be  quickly 
replaced,  and  the  .Arab  countries  had  sufficient  manpower  to  rebuild 
shattered  forces. 

Nuclear  and  Conventional  Deterrents 

The  concept  of  deterrence  assumed  a  new  dimension  with  the 
introduction  of  nuclear  weapons  into  the  equation.  In  December 
1974.  President  Ephraim  Katzir  announced  that  "'it  has  always 
been  our  intention  to  develop  a  nuclear  potential .  We  now  have 
that  potential. ' '  -.Ambiguously.  Israeli  officials  maintained  that  Israel 
would  not  be  the  first  nation  to  introduce  nuclear  weapons  into 
the  Middle  East.  Experts  assumed  that  Israel  had  a  rudimentary 
nuclear  capability.  In  September  1986.  the  testimony  and  photo- 
graphs provided  by  Mordechai  Yanunu.  a  technician  who  had 
worked  at  Israel's  Dimona  nuclear  facility  in  the  Xegev  Desert, 
led  experts  to  conclude  that  Israel  had  a  nuclear  capability  far  greater 
than  previously  thought  i  see  Nuclear  Weapons  Potential,  this  ch.  i. 


27( 


National  Security 


Although  viewed  as  its  ultimate  guarantor  of  security,  the  nuclear 
option  did  not  lead  Israel  to  complacency  about  national  security. 
On  the  contrary,  it  impelled  Israel  to  seek  unquestioned  superi- 
ority in  conventional  capability  over  the  Arab  armies  to  forestall 
use  of  nuclear  weapons  as  a  last  resort.  The  IDF  sought  to  lever- 
age its  conventional  power  to  the  maximum  extent.  IDF  doctrine 
and  tactics  stressed  quality  of  weapons  versus  quantity;  integra- 
tion of  the  combined  firepower  of  the  three  branches  of  the  armed 
forces;  effective  battlefield  command,  communications,  and  real- 
time intelligence;  use  of  precision-guided  munitions  and  stand-off 
firepower;  and  high  mobility. 

The  debate  over  secure  borders  rested  at  the  heart  of  the  con- 
troversy over  Israel's  national  security.  Some  strategists  contended 
that  only  a  negotiated  settlement  with  the  Arabs  would  bring  peace 
and  ensure  Israel's  ultimate  security.  Such  a  settlement  would  en- 
tail territorial  concessions  in  the  occupied  territories.  Proponents 
of  exchanging  land  for  peace  tended  to  be  skeptical  that  any  bor- 
der was  militarily  defensible  in  the  age  of  modern  warfare.  In  their 
eyes,  the  occupied  territories  were  a  liability  in  that  they  gave  Israel 
a  false  sense  of  security  and  gave  the  Arabs  reason  to  go  to  war. 

Others  believed  Israel's  conflict  with  the  Arab  states  was  fun- 
damentally irreconcilable  and  that  Israeli  and  Arab  territorial  im- 
peratives were  mutually  exclusive.  They  held  that  ceding  control 
of  the  occupied  territories  would  bring  at  best  a  temporary  peace 
and  feared  that  the  Arabs  would  use  the  territories  as  a  springboard 
to  attack  Israel  proper.  Israeli  military  positions  along  the  Golan 
Heights  and  the  Jordan  Rift  Valley  were  said  to  be  ideal  geographi- 
cally defensible  borders.  Others  viewed  the  occupied  territories  as 
an  integral  part  of  Israel  and  Israeli  withdrawal  as  too  high  a  price 
to  pay  for  peace.  Extending  beyond  national  security,  the  con- 
troversy was  enmeshed  with  political,  social,  and  religious  issues — 
particularly  the  concept  of  exchanging  "land  for  peace"  that  formed 
the  basis  of  UN  Security  Council  resolutions  242  and  338. 

Autonomy 

Autonomy  was  another  cornerstone  of  Israeli  strategic  doctrine, 
but  autonomy  did  not  mean  independence.  The  Israeli  military 
acknowledged  a  heavy  dependence  on  the  United  States  as  a  sup- 
plier of  military  materiel  and  as  a  deterrent  to  possible  Soviet  in- 
tervention on  the  side  of  the  Arabs  during  times  of  war.  Precisely 
because  of  this  dependence,  however,  Israel  felt  it  necessary  to  take 
autonomous  action — often  in  defiance  of  strong  United  States  ob- 
jections. In  numerous  actions,  such  as  the  1973  encirclement  of 
the  Egyptian  Third  Army  and  the  1982  siege  of  West  Beirut,  Israel 


271 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

signaled  to  Washington  that  its  national  interests  were  not  always 
congruent  with  those  of  the  United  States.  More  important,  Israel 
proved  to  its  Arab  adversaries  that  despite  any  political  pressure 
they  exerted  on  Washington,  the  United  States  could  not  extract 
concessions  from  Israel.  Another  dimension  of  autonomy  was  that 
Israel  would  not  make  a  settlement  with  the  Arabs  by  placing  it- 
self in  an  indefensible  position  in  return  for  security  guarantees 
from  the  United  States.  In  general,  foreign  policy  was  subservient 
to  defense  policy,  and  Israeli  policy  makers  felt  that  Israel  should 
never  sacrifice  its  strategic  strength  for  improved  foreign  relations 
with  the  United  States,  the  Arab  states,  or  other  countries,  even 
if  such  improved  relations  made  war  less  likely.  As  Day  an  said, 
"Israel  has  no  foreign  policy — only  a  defense  policy." 

International  and  Domestic  Security  Concerns 

The  Arab  Military  Threat 

As  of  1988,  experts  considered  the  IDF  superior  to  any  combi- 
nation of  Arab  forces  that  was  likely  to  be  massed  against  it  in  a 
future  conflict.  The  total  manpower  and  firepower  that  could  be 
directed  against  Israel  far  outweighed  the  battlefield  resources  that 
Israel  could  muster,  yet  Israel's  dynamic  military  leadership,  troop 
proficiency,  and  sophisticated  weaponry  still  promised  to  be  deci- 
sive, as  they  had  been  in  previous  wars.  The  Arab  nations  remained 
deeply  divided  over  a  host  of  issues  in  mid- 1988,  including  their 
postures  toward  Israel.  Although  the  Camp  David  peace  process 
between  Egypt  and  Israel  failed  to  achieve  normalization  of  rela- 
tions, Israel  no  longer  considered  Egypt  part  of  the  circle  of  hostile 
states.  Nevertheless,  Israeli  planners  did  not  rule  out  an  upheaval 
in  Egyptian  politics  that  would  renew  the  risk  of  military  confron- 
tation. With  the  Sinai  region  effectively  demilitarized,  the  element 
of  surprise  that  had  initially  worked  in  Egypt's  favor  in  the  Oc- 
tober 1973  War  would  not  be  available.  In  any  future  conflict,  Egyp- 
tian forces  would  have  to  cross  130  kilometers  of  desert  exposed 
to  Israeli  air  power.  Jordan's  military  weakness  vis-a-vis  Israel  and 
its  exposure  to  Israeli  retaliation  seemed  to  rule  out  military  ac- 
tion except  as  a  reluctant  ally  in  a  larger  Arab  coalition.  The  modern- 
ization of  Jordan's  army  and  air  force  was  continuing,  however, 
with  the  help  of  the  United  States  and  France.  Many  important 
Israeli  targets  were  within  the  range  of  Jordanian  artillery  and 
rockets. 

Syria  posed  the  paramount  threat.  The  Syrian  armed  forces  had 
pursued  a  massive  build-up  of  offensive  and  defensive  manpower 
and  equipment  in  an  effort  to  maintain  parity  with  Israel.  Although 


272 


National  Security 


the  inflexibility  of  their  military  strategy  had  resulted  in  crushing 
defeats  in  engagements  with  the  IDF,  the  Syrians  had  proved  to 
be  skillful  and  stubborn  fighters  during  the  Lebanon  conflict.  The 
concentrations  of  Syrian  troops  facing  the  Golan  Heights  proba- 
bly could  make  initial  gains  in  a  thrust  against  the  IDF,  but  would 
absorb  heavy  punishment  once  the  Israelis  mobilized  for  a  coun- 
terattack. 

Like  other  Arab  states,  Saudi  Arabia  had  upgraded  its  naval  and 
air  arms,  improving  its  capability  to  defend  its  air  space  and  con- 
trol activities  in  the  Red  Sea  area.  Saudi  Arabia's  outlook  and  stra- 
tegic doctrine  were  primarily  defensive,  and  its  primary  objective 
was  stability  in  the  Middle  East  to  minimize  the  danger  to  its  oil 
facilities  and  other  vital  installations.  Nevertheless,  from  Israel's 
perspective,  that  country  had  the  potential  to  undertake  offensive 
air  operations  in  conjunction  with  other  Arab  air  forces.  In  the  eyes 
of  Israeli  strategists,  Saudi  Arabia's  1988  purchase  of  long-range 
missiles  from  China  and  its  acquisition  of  Tornado  fighter-bombers 
from  Britain  enhanced  its  role  in  a  future  conflict. 

The  Iraqi  army  had  not  played  a  decisive  role  in  previous  wars. 
During  the  October  1973  fighting,  two  Iraqi  brigades  were  quickly 
overcome  in  the  IDF  drive  toward  Damascus.  If  Iraq  again  at- 
tempted to  advance  its  forces  to  support  Syria  and  Jordan,  they 
would,  like  those  of  Egypt,  be  vulnerable  to  Israeli  air  strikes. 
Nevertheless,  as  of  late  1988,  Israeli  officers  were  less  confident 
of  their  ability  to  neutralize  Iraq's  armed  potential.  During  the  war 
with  Iran,  the  Iraqi  army  had  expanded  to  more  than  twenty  divi- 
sions and  had  acquired  combat  experience  and  skill  in  the  use  of 
sophisticated  weaponry.  Iraq  also  had  demonstrated  the  capacity 
and  willingness  to  resort  to  chemical  weapons.  On  the  other  hand, 
Iraq  was  economically  drained  and  presumably  tired  of  fighting 
after  the  eight-year  struggle  with  Iran.  Israeli  military  analysts  felt, 
moreover,  that  tensions  would  persist  in  the  Persian  Gulf  and  that 
Iraq's  armed  forces  would  be  unlikely  to  welcome  military  involve- 
ment elsewhere. 

The  buildup  of  the  Arab  armies  between  the  October  1973  War 
and  the  mid-1980s  was  both  qualitative  and  quantitative.  Egypt, 
Syria,  and  Jordan  had  expanded  the  total  of  their  divisions  from 
twenty  to  twenty-five  during  this  period.  Of  these,  the  number  of 
armored  and  mechanized  divisions  rose  from  ten  to  twenty-two. 
Israeli  planners  estimated  that  Iraq  could  contribute  another  ten  divi- 
sions, increasing  the  Arab  disparity  over  Israel  even  more  (see  fig.  13). 

The  lifting  of  restrictions  on  arms  sales  by  the  Western  powers, 
combined  with  the  increased  resources  at  the  disposal  of  oil- 
exporting  countries,  enabled  the  Arab  powers  vastiy  to  expand  their 


273 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


0 


-TURKEY/ 


CY 


Mediterranean 
Sea 


ISRAEL 

TAF  141,000 
AFV  14,200 
CA  752 


SYRIA 

TAF 

407,500 

AFV 

7,900 

CA 

588 

r' 


GAZA  STRIP  2 


)~  -Jjf  (Israeli  oc£upie< 
'  J__JV£5T  2 


< 


IRAQ 

TAF 

1,000,000 

AFV 

8,500 

CA 

650 

EGYPT 

TAF 

445,000 

AFV 

5,518 

CA 

494 

/ 


JORDAN 

TAF  80,300 
AFV  2,356 
CA  133 


Kuw£rm 


SAUDI  ARABIA 

TAF  73,500 
2,260 
226 


AFV 
CA 


Iraq-Saudi  Arabia 


1  In  1987  Lebanon's  national  armed 
forces  did  not  present  a  threat  to 
Israel.  Since  the  late  1960s,  however, 
Israel  has  clashed  with  various  Palestinian,' 
Lebanese,  and  Syrian  forces  in  Lebanon. 

2  The  status  of  the  Israeli-occupied  West 
Bank  and  Gaza  Strip  is  to  be  determined. 

/ 

*■       '*  \./" 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessariiy  authoritative 


SUDAN 


—  ..  —  International  boundary 

--  Armistice  line 

TAF 

Total  armed  forces 
(excluding  reserves  and 
paramilitary  units) 

AFV 

Armored  fighting  vehicles 
(including  tanks) 

CA 

Combat  aircraft 
(including  attack 
helicopters) 

0  100 

I  ' 

200  Kilometers 

0 

100         200  Nautical  miles 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  The  Mili- 
tary Balance,  1987-1988,  London,  1987,  96-114. 


Figure  13.  Comparison  of  Military  Forces  of  Israel  and  Neighboring  Coun- 
tries, 1987 

sophisticated  weaponry  between  1973  and  1988.  The  tank  inven- 
tories of  Egypt,  Jordan,  and  Syria  rose  by  60  percent,  while  their 
stocks  of  aircraft,  helicopters,  and  armored  personnel  carriers 
roughly  doubled.  Both  Syria  and  Iraq  had  acquired  high  perfor- 
mance aircraft  of  Soviet  design.  To  the  Arab  countries'  primary 
land  weapons  had  been  added  more  self-propelled  artillery,  guided 
antitank  missiles,  new  munitions — including  cluster  and  homing 
shells — improved  fire-control  systems,  and  laser  rangefinders.  Previ- 
ously vulnerable  air  defenses  now  could  be  shielded  using  advanced 
mobile  missile  systems  acquired  from  both  East  and  West.  Most 
of  the  strategic  sites  in  Israel  were  exposed  to  Syrian  striking  power 
in  the  form  of  Soviet-supplied  SS-21  SSMs,  with  a  range  of  120 
kilometers  and  far  greater  accuracy  than  the  earlier  generation 
FROG-7  (70  kilometers)  and  Scud-B  (300  kilometers). 


274 


National  Security 


Israel  could  draw  only  tentative  conclusions  regarding  the  im- 
provement in  Arab  military  leadership  and  manpower  resources. 
Arab  field  commanders  had  not  yet  demonstrated  the  successful 
adaptation  of  modern  command  and  control  systems  to  battlefield 
situations.  Arab  forces  had  in  the  past  shown  greater  effectiveness 
in  static  defense  than  in  mobile  offensive  operations.  The  paucity 
of  qualified  technical  personnel  in  the  Arab  armies,  attributed  to 
deficiencies  in  education  and  training,  continued  to  detract  from 
the  ability  of  the  Arab  armed  forces  to  employ  modern  weaponry 
with  full  efficiency.  The  superior  skills  of  Israeli  pilots  had  been 
decisive  in  the  1982  invasion  of  Lebanon  and  in  earlier  engage- 
ments. Although  the  rising  level  of  weapons  technology  presented 
more  of  a  problem  to  the  Arab  nations  than  to  Israel,  the  Arabs' 
Soviet  systems  were  simpler  to  use  and  maintain  than  their  more 
sophisticated  United  States  counterparts.  The  improved  perfor- 
mance of  the  Iraqi  air  force  against  Iran  after  1985  offered  some 
evidence  that  the  disparity  in  pilot  skills  and  experience  might  be 
narrowing. 

Palestinian  Terrorist  Groups 

The  PLO  was  formed  in  1964  as  an  umbrella  body  for  a  num- 
ber of  elements  of  the  Palestinian  resistance  movement.  Its  main 
constituent  force  was  Al  Fatah  (Movement  for  the  Liberation  of 
Palestine),  whose  head,  Yasir  Arafat,  assumed  control  of  the  PLO 
in  1968.  At  the  outbreak  of  the  invasion  of  Lebanon  in  1982,  Al 
Fatah  numbered  6,500  armed  men  organized  into  regular  units. 
Another  PLO  faction  was  the  Popular  Front  for  the  Liberation  of 
Palestine  (PFLP),  ideologically  close  to  the  Soviet  Union  and  led 
by  a  Christian,  George  Habash.  The  PFLP  was  bitterly  opposed 
to  compromise  with  Israel.  Numbering  about  1,500  adherents  in 
1982,  it  was  responsible  for  some  of  the  most  deadly  international 
terrorist  actions  against  Israel  and  its  supporters.  Other  leftist  groups 
had  splintered  from  the  PFLP,  including  the  Democratic  Front  for 
the  Liberation  of  Palestine  (DFLP),  the  Popular  Front  for  the  Liber- 
ation of  Palestine-General  Command  (with  ties  to  Syria  and  Libya), 
and  the  Palestine  Liberation  Front  (Iraq- supported).  The  Pales- 
tine Liberation  Army  (PLA),  numbering  nearly  4,000  men  in  1982, 
was  established  in  1964  as  the  military  arm  of  the  PLO.  In  prac- 
tice, however,  the  Syrian  general  staff  controlled  the  PLA's  con- 
tingents of  Palestinian  troops  and  the  Jordanian  army  controlled 
one  brigade  in  Jordan.  The  Abu  Nidal  organization,  an  anti- Arafat 
group  supported  by  Libya  and  Syria,  was  responsible  for  many 
terrorist  actions  in  Western  Europe  and  against  pro-Arafat  Pales- 
tinians. 


275 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Initially  linked  to  Syria,  Al  Fatah  came  into  its  own  after  the 
June  1967  War,  when  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip  fell  under 
Israeli  control.  Palestinian  refugees  poured  into  Jordan,  where  the 
PLO  established  virtually  autonomous  enclaves,  and  from  which 
it  launched  guerrilla  raids.  Israel's  retaliation  inflicted  heavy  damage 
within  Jordan.  The  PLO  refused  demands  from  King  Hussein  that 
it  cease  operations  and,  in  a  sharp  conflict  with  Jordanian  forces 
in  1970  and  1971 ,  was  driven  out  of  Jordan.  Shifting  its  headquar- 
ters to  Lebanon,  the  PLO  adopted  a  more  formal  military  struc- 
ture, benefiting  from  an  abundant  flow  of  arms  from  other  Arab 
nations.  In  spite  of  the  danger  of  Israeli  reprisals,  the  Lebanese 
government  was  forced  to  accept  the  independent  political  and  mili- 
tary presence  of  the  PLO  in  Lebanon. 

Airliner  hijackings  had  been  an  element  in  the  PLO's  strategy 
since  1967.  In  retaliation  against  an  attack  on  an  El  Al  airliner  in 
Athens  in  1968,  Israel  mounted  a  helicopter  raid  against  the  Beirut 
International  Airport,  destroying  thirteen  Arab-owned  aircraft.  A 
number  of  deadly  terrorist  incidents  and  guerrilla  attacks  against 
Israeli  West  Bank  settlements  occurred  during  the  1970s.  In  an 
attempt  at  hostage-taking,  the  Black  September  group,  an  extremist 
faction  of  Al  Fatah,  killed  eleven  Israeli  athletes  at  the  Munich 
Olympics  in  1972.  A  climax  in  the  terrorist  campaign  occurred  in 
March  1978,  when  Al  Fatah  raiders  landed  on  the  Israeli  coast  south 
of  Haifa,  attacking  a  bus  and  cars  on  the  Tel  Aviv-Haifa  high- 
way. Thirty-five  Israelis  were  killed  and  at  least  seventy-four  were 
wounded.  In  reaction  to  the  highway  attack,  the  IDF  launched 
Operation  Litani  in  April  1978,  a  three-month  expedition  to  clear 
the  PLO  guerrillas  from  Lebanese  border  areas.  Within  one  week, 
the  strong  IDF  force  had  driven  back  the  PLO  and  established  com- 
plete control  in  southern  Lebanon  up  to  the  Litani  River. 

Nevertheless,  the  PLO  had  not  been  dealt  a  decisive  blow.  With 
Soviet  help,  it  began  to  accumulate  substantial  numbers  of  heavy 
weapons,  including  long-range  artillery,  rocket  launchers,  antiair- 
craft weapons,  and  missiles.  Between  1978  and  1981,  numerous 
IDF  raids  against  PLO  installations  in  southern  Lebanon  were  an- 
swered within  hours  by  random  artillery  and  rocket  attacks  on  Israeli 
border  settlements.  By  mid- 1981,  the  reciprocal  attacks  were  ap- 
proaching the  intensity  of  full-scale  hostilities.  Punishing  bomb- 
ing raids  by  the  Israeli  air  force  included  an  attack  aimed  at  PLO 
headquarters  in  Beirut  that  caused  many  civilian  casualties. 
Although  a  truce  was  arranged  with  the  help  of  United  States  am- 
bassador Philip  Habib  on  July  24,  1981,  acts  of  PLO  terror  did 
not  abate  inside  Israel,  in  the  West  Bank,  and  in  foreign  coun- 
tries. Israel  considered  the  continued  presence  of  long-range 


276 


Israeli  forces  withdrawing  from 
occupied  area  of  southern  Lebanon,  June  1978 
Courtesy  United  Nations  (Y.  Nagata) 

weapons  threatening  its  northern  population  centers  an  unaccept- 
able threat.  In  June  1982,  Israel  justified  its  invasion  of  Lebanon 
as  the  response  to  an  assassination  attempt  against  its  ambassador 
in  London  by  the  Abu  Nidal  group.  At  the  outset  of  the  war,  the 
PLO  had  approximately  15,000  organized  forces  and  about  18,000 
militia  recruited  among  Palestinian  refugees.  In  spite  of  the  large 
quantity  of  weapons  and  armor  it  had  acquired,  it  never  reached 
the  level  of  military  competence  needed  to  meet  the  IDF  in  regu- 
lar combat.  When  three  division-size  IDF  armored  columns  bore 
down  on  the  6,000  PLO  fighters  defending  the  coastal  plain  below 
Beirut,  the  Palestinians  fought  tenaciously  even  though  they  were 
poorly  led  and  even  abandoned  by  many  senior  officers.  Effective 
resistance  ended  within  a  week  when  the  IDF  closed  in  on  the  Beirut 
suburbs  (see  1982  Invasion  of  Lebanon,  this  ch.). 

To  avoid  the  domestic  and  international  repercussions  of  the 
bloody  street  fighting  that  an  attack  on  the  PLO  headquarters  in 
West  Beirut  would  have  entailed,  an  agreement  was  negotiated 
whereby  the  PLO  troops  and  command  would  evacuate  Lebanon 
and  withdraw  to  other  Arab  states  willing  to  receive  them.  By 
September  1982,  more  than  14,000  PLO  combatants  had  with- 
drawn. About  6,500  Al  Fatah  fighters  sailed  from  Beirut.  Most 
of  the  others  crossed  into  Syria,  and  smaller  contingents  went  to 


277 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

other  Arab  countries.  As  of  1987,  it  was  believed  that  between  2,000 
and  3,700  guerrillas  were  still  in  Syria,  2,000  were  in  Jordan,  and 
smaller  groups  were  quartered  in  Algeria,  the  Yemen  Arab  Repub- 
lic (North  Yemen),  the  People's  Democratic  Republic  of  Yemen 
(South  Yemen),  Iraq,  Sudan,  and  Tunisia.  By  1988,  however, 
many  PLO  fighters  had  filtered  back  into  Lebanon.  About  3,000 
armed  men  aligned  with  Al  Fatah  were  located  in  two  camps  near 
Sidon,  forty  kilometers  south  of  Beirut,  and  an  additional  7,000 
fighters  aligned  with  Syria  reportedly  were  deployed  in  bases  and 
refugee  camps  in  eastern  and  northern  Lebanon. 

Much  of  the  Arab  terrorism  directed  against  Israel  during  the 
mid-to-late  1980s  was  conducted  by  Syrian-sponsored  Palestinian 
groups  that  rejected  Arafat.  To  a  lesser  extent,  terrorist  threats 
resulted  from  Libyan  involvement  or  from  Al  Fatah  and  its  Force 
1 7 .  Terrorists  made  a  number  of  attempts  to  infiltrate  the  Israeli 
coast  by  sea  and  the  anti-Arafat  Abu  Musa  faction  mounted  several 
terrorist  attacks  in  Jerusalem.  The  Damascus-based  PFLP  waged 
a  relentless  campaign  to  inhibit  the  development  of  moderate  Pales- 
tinian leadership  in  the  occupied  territories.  The  shadowy  Abu 
Nidal  was  believed  responsible  for  a  number  of  actions  in  which 
Israel  was  not  necessarily  the  primary  target.  These  included  the 
hijacking  of  an  Egyptian  airliner  with  the  loss  of  many  lives  in  late 
1985,  and  shooting  and  grenade  attacks  at  the  El  Al  counters  of 
the  Rome  and  Vienna  airports  a  few  months  later. 

The  Shia  population  of  southern  Lebanon  had  initially  welcomed 
the  IDF  as  adversaries  of  the  PLO.  By  1984,  however,  they  had 
turned  against  the  Israelis  because  of  the  dislocation  caused  by  the 
Israeli  occupation.  Protests  turned  to  violence  in  the  form  of 
hundreds  of  hit-and-run  attacks  by  Shia  gunmen  against  Israeli 
troops.  The  situation  eased  with  the  end  of  the  Israeli  occupation 
in  mid- 1985. 

Southern  Lebanon  continued  to  be  a  potentially  dangerous  base 
for  guerrilla  attacks  in  1988,  following  the  partial  reorganization 
of  PLO  elements  in  Lebanon  and  the  introduction  of  hundreds 
of  Shia  radicals  of  the  Hizballah  (Party  of  God)  movement 
supported  by  Iran.  Numerous  attempts  had  been  made  by  terrorist 
squads  to  penetrate  Israel's  border  defenses.  A  zone  inside  Lebanese 
territory  eighty  kilometers  long  and  averaging  ten  kilometers 
in  depth  was  patrolled  by  1 ,000  IDF  troops  backed  by  2,000  SLA 
militiamen  recruited  among  Christian  Maronites.  The  IDF  con- 
ducted periodic  sweeps  of  this  zone  to  discourage  cross-border 
infiltration  and  shelling  by  the  PLO.  The  frontier  itself  was 
protected  by  antipersonnel  mines,  an  electronic  fence,  acoustic, 


278 


National  Security 


radar  and  night- vision  systems,  fortified  positions,  and  mobile 
patrols. 

The  Palestinian  uprising  (intifadah)  that  broke  out  in  December 
1987  in  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza  Strip  apparently  was  launched 
spontaneously  and  was  not  direcdy  controlled  by  the  PLO.  Bury- 
ing their  longstanding  rivalries,  local  members  of  Al  Fatah,  PFLP, 
DFLP,  the  Palestinian  Communist  Party,  and  fundamentalists  of 
the  Islamic  Holy  War  faction  provided  leadership  through  "popular 
committees"  in  camps  and  villages.  A  loose  coordinating  body, 
the  Unified  National  Command  of  the  Uprising,  distributed  leaflets 
with  guidance  on  the  general  lines  of  resistance.  By  August  1988, 
a  separate  Islamic  fundamentalist  organization  had  emerged. 
Known  as  Hamas,  the  Arabic  acronym  for  a  name  that  translates 
as  the  Islamic  Resistance  Movement,  it  rejected  any  political  set- 
tlement with  Israel,  insisting  that  a  solution  would  come  only 
through  a  holy  war  (see  Palestinian  Uprising,  December  1987-  , 
this  ch.). 

Jewish  Terrorist  Organizations 

Several  small  Jewish  groups  had  been  linked  with  terrorist  at- 
tacks against  Arabs  in  the  West  Bank  and  East  Jerusalem.  None 
of  these  presented  a  significant  security  problem  to  the  IDF  as  of 
1988.  The  best  known  of  these  organizations,  the  Gush  Emunim 
Underground  (sometimes  called  the  Jewish  Terror  Organization), 
was  formed  in  1979  by  prominent  members  of  Gush  Emunim,  a 
group  of  religious  zealots  who  had  used  squatter  tactics  to  carry 
on  a  campaign  to  settle  the  West  Bank  after  the  October  1973  War. 
The  underground  perceived  the  1978  Camp  David  Accords  and 
the  1979  Treaty  of  Peace  Between  Egypt  and  Israel  as  betraying 
the  Begin  government's  policy  of  retaining  the  territories  conquered 
by  Israel. 

The  principal  terrorist  actions  of  the  Gush  Emunim  Underground 
were  carried  out  between  1980  and  1984.  In  1980  car  bombings 
of  five  West  Bank  Arab  mayors  resulted  in  crippling  two  of  the 
mayors.  In  1983,  the  Hebron  Islamic  College  was  the  target  of  a 
machinegun  and  grenade  attack  that  killed  three  Arab  students  and 
wounded  thirty-three  others.  In  1984  an  attempt  was  made  to  place 
explosive  charges  on  five  Arab  buses  in  East  Jerusalem.  This  plot 
was  foiled  by  agents  of  Israel's  internal  security  force,  Shin  Bet, 
leading  to  arrest  and  prison  sentences  for  eighteen  members  of  the 
underground.  The  security  services  also  uncovered  a  well-developed 
plan  to  blow  up  the  Dome  of  the  Rock,  one  of  Islam's  most  sacred 
shrines,  on  Jerusalem's  Temple  Mount. 


279 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Another  anti-Arab  terrorist  group,  Terror  Against  Terror  (known 
as  TNT)  was  established  by  Kach,  the  right-wing  extremist  politi- 
cal movement  of  Rabbi  Meir  Kahane.  TNT  was  responsible  for 
numerous  beatings  and  bombings  and  several  murders  of  Arabs, 
beginning  in  1975.  Defending  Shield  (Egrof  Magen),  a  Jewish 
vigilante  group  of  West  Bank  settlers  formed  in  1983,  was  respon- 
sible for  a  number  of  attacks  and  vandalization  of  Arab  property 
on  the  West  Bank.  During  the  intifadah,  beginning  in  late  1987, 
there  were  many  reports  of  Jewish  vigilantism,  including  shoot- 
ings, punitive  raids  on  refugee  camps,  and  assaults  on  Arab 
motorists  in  retaliation  for  rock-throwing  attacks  by  Arab  youths. 
Most  of  these  appeared  to  be  spontaneous  actions  by  settlers  of  in- 
dividual communities. 

The  Israel  Defense  Forces 
Command  Structure 

The  IDF  had  no  commander  in  chief  designated  as  such.  The 
Basic  Law:  The  Army,  1976,  vested  command  in  the  government. 
In  fact,  the  minister  of  defense  acted  as  the  highest  authority  over 
the  IDF  and  was  its  link  to  civilian  political  authorities.  The  minister 
of  defense  was  a  civilian  (although  usually  a  retired  military  officer). 
The  cabinet  was  required  to  give  prior  approval  to  major  military 
policies  and  operations.  Under  normal  circumstances,  the  stand- 
ing Foreign  Affairs  and  Security  Committee  of  the  cabinet  exer- 
cised this  responsibility.  The  invasion  of  Lebanon  in  1982 
demonstrated,  however,  that  a  domineering  minister  of  defense 
could,  by  misleading  the  cabinet  or  withholding  information,  act 
contrary  to  the  government's  wishes.  Periodic  reports  on  the  sta- 
tus of  the  military  were  provided  to  the  Israeli  parliament,  the  Knes- 
set, through  its  Foreign  Affairs  and  National  Security  Committee 
and  on  budgetary  matters  through  the  Finance  Committee. 

The  highest  ranking  IDF  officer,  the  only  officer  to  hold  the  rank 
of  lieutenant  general,  was  the  chief  of  staff,  who  was  chairman  of 
the  general  staff  and  was  responsible  to  the  minister  of  defense. 
The  general  staff  was  in  charge  of  "professional"  matters,  such 
as  organization,  training,  and  the  planning  and  execution  of  mili- 
tary operations.  The  chief  of  staff  in  late  1988,  Lieutenant  Gen- 
eral Dan  Shomron,  had  held  the  position  since  April  1987.  He  was 
appointed  by  the  minister  of  defense  for  a  term  that  was  nominally 
three  years  but  that  could  be  shortened  or  extended.  Within  the 
Ministry  of  Defense,  the  senior  civilian  officer  beneath  the  minister 
was  the  director  general,  who  supervised  defense  production, 
infrastructure,  the  budget,  and  other  administrative  and  technical 


280 


National  Security 


matters.  As  the  supreme  commander  of  the  IDF,  however,  the 
minister  of  defense  could  intervene  in  all  IDF  matters  (see  fig.  14). 

The  general  staff  had  as  its  members  the  chief  of  general  staff 
branch  (operations),  the  chiefs  of  manpower,  logistics,  and  intelli- 
gence; the  three  area  commanders;  and  the  commanding  officers 
of  the  air  force,  navy,  and  ground  corps.  The  ground  corps  com- 
mander was  responsible  for  training,  doctrine,  and  development 
of  equipment  for  the  four  combat  corps  of  paratroop/infantry, 
armor,  artillery,  and  engineers.  Operational  control  of  the  ground 
forces  went  through  a  separate  chain  of  command  from  the  chief 
of  staff  directly  to  the  three  area  commanders — Northern  (forces 
facing  Syria  and  Lebanon);  Central  (forces  facing  Jordan);  and 
Southern  (forces  facing  Egypt) — who  in  turn  exercised  command 
over  divisions  and  brigades. 

The  navy  and  air  force  were  not,  nor  had  ever  been,  designated 
as  separate  services.  Officially  known  as  the  Sea  Corps  (Hel  Yam) 
and  the  Air  Corps  (Hel  Avir),  the  navy  and  air  force,  however, 
enjoyed  more  autonomy  within  the  IDF  structure  than  their  offi- 
cial designations  would  suggest.  Their  commanders  had  the  sta- 
tus of  senior  advisers  to  the  chief  of  staff.  Along  with  the  ground 
force  area  commanders,  the  commanders  of  the  air  force  and  navy 
held  two-star  rank. 

Ground  Forces 

The  Israeli  government  did  not  disclose  information  on  the  overall 
size  of  the  IDF,  or  the  identity,  location,  and  strength  of  units. 
In  1988  the  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies  in  Lon- 
don estimated  the  strength  of  the  ground  forces  at  104,000  troops, 
including  16,000  career  soldiers  and  88,000  conscripts.  An  addi- 
tional 494,000  men  and  women  were  regularly  trained  reserves  who 
could  be  mobilized  within  seventy-two  hours.  The  staffs  of  each 
of  the  ground  forces'  three  area  commanders  were  divided  into 
branches  responsible  for  manpower,  operations,  training,  and  sup- 
ply. The  authority  of  the  area  commanders  extended  to  the  com- 
bat units  and  ground  force  bases  and  installations  located  within 
their  districts,  as  well  as  area  defense,  including  the  protection  of 
villages,  especially  those  near  the  frontier.  During  combat,  area 
commanders  also  coordinated  activities  of  naval  and  air  force  units 
operating  on  fronts  within  their  areas. 

The  army  was  organized  into  three  armored  divisions,  each  com- 
posed of  two  armored  and  one  artillery  brigade,  plus  one  armored 
and  one  mechanized  infantry  brigade  upon  mobilization.  An  ad- 
ditional five  independent  mechanized  infantry  brigades  were  avail- 
able. The  reserves  consisted  of  nine  armored  divisions,  one 


281 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


< 

0) 

<co 

O 

Ll_ 

Mil 

UJ 

I 

<i 

o 

o 

Q  in 

SET 

:ign 

S  AN 
RITY 
ITTEI 

,</> 

II 

NES 

FORE 
AFFAIR 
SECU 
COMM 

OS 

£0 

CO 


53 
K 

1 
ft 


282 


National  Security 


airmobile  mechanized  division,  and  ten  regional  infantry  brigades 
for  border  defense.  In  practice,  unit  composition  was  extremely 
fluid  and  it  was  common  for  subunits  to  be  transferred,  especially 
when  a  particular  battalion  or  brigade  was  needed  in  a  combat  zone 
far  from  its  regular  divisional  station. 

The  IDF  did  not  organize  permanent  divisions  until  after  the 
June  1967  War.  As  of  1988,  their  composition  remained  flexible, 
leading  military  analysts  to  regard  the  brigade  as  the  basic  combat 
unit  of  the  IDF.  Brigade  commanders  exercised  considerable 
autonomy,  particularly  during  battle,  following  the  IDF  axiom  that 
the  command  echelon  must  serve  the  assault  echelon. 

Between  1977  and  1987,  the  IDF  reconfigured  its  units  as  its 
tank  inventory  grew,  reducing  the  number  of  infantry  brigades 
while  increasing  the  number  of  armored  brigades  from  twenty  to 
thirty-three  upon  mobilization.  Although  maintained  with  a  full 
complement  of  equipment,  most  of  the  armored  brigades  were  only 
at  cadre  strength. 

The  Israeli  ground  forces  were  highly  mechanized.  Their  equip- 
ment inventory  included  nearly  4,000  tanks  and  nearly  1 1 ,000  other 
armored  vehicles  (see  table  12,  Appendix  A).  Their  armored  per- 
sonnel vehicles  almost  equaled  in  number  those  of  the  combined 
armies  of  Egypt,  Jordan,  and  Syria.  The  offensive  profile  of  the 
army  was  bolstered  significantly  by  the  artillery  forces  (principally 
self-propelled  and  equipped  with  advanced  fire  control  systems  and 
high-performance  munitions).  Antitank  capabilities  had  been  up- 
graded with  modern  rocket  launchers  and  guided  missile  systems. 

As  of  1988,  most  Israeli  ground  forces  were  positioned  on  the 
northern  and  eastern  border  areas  facing  Jordan,  Syria,  and 
Lebanon.  After  the  Syrian  army  shifted  most  of  its  troops  out  of 
Lebanon  following  the  IDF  withdrawal  in  June  1985,  more  than 
six  Syrian  divisions  were  concentrated  in  the  Golan-Damascus  area. 
The  IDF  responded  by  constructing  several  defensive  lines  of  mines 
and  antitank  obstacles  in  the  Golan  Heights,  and  by  reinforcing 
its  troop  strength  there,  mainly  with  regular  armored  and  infan- 
try units.  Reserve  units  training  in  the  vicinity  also  could  be  mobi- 
lized in  case  of  need.  Other  ground  forces  were  deployed  in 
defending  the  Lebanese  border  against  infiltration. 

Navy 

By  far  the  smallest  arm  of  the  IDF,  the  navy  in  1987  consisted 
of  about  1,000  officers  and  8,000  enlisted  personnel,  including  3,200 
conscripts.  An  additional  1,000  reserve  personnel  would  be  avail- 
able on  mobilization.  Long  neglected,  the  navy  won  acclaim  for 
its  successful  engagements  with  the  Syrian  and  Egyptian  navies 


283 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


during  the  October  1973  War,  when  it  sank  eight  Arab  missile  boats 
without  the  loss  of  a  single  Israeli  vessel.  The  Soviet  Union  replaced 
Syria's  wartime  losses  and  provided  an  additional  nine  missile  boats. 
The  Egyptian  fleet  also  introduced  new  and  more  advanced  equip- 
ment after  the  1973  conflict.  With  more  than  140  units  as  of  1988, 
the  Egyptian  fleet  was  larger  than  that  of  Israel.  Nevertheless,  for- 
eign observers  believed  that  the  balance  of  naval  power  still  rested 
with  Israel  because  of  its  technological  and  tactical  superiority. 

During  the  1980s,  sea  infiltration  by  PLO  terrorists  presented 
the  most  immediate  naval  threat.  With  few  exceptions  the  navy 
succeeded  in  thwarting  such  attacks,  using  missile  boats  to  detect 
mother  ships  on  the  high  seas,  fast  patrol  craft  for  inshore  patrol- 
ling, and  offshore  patrol  aircraft  for  visual  or  radar  detection  of 
hostile  activity.  Nevertheless,  Israeli  defense  planners  accorded  the 
navy  the  lowest  priority  among  the  IDF's  three  arms  and,  although 
it  had  been  expanded,  some  Israeli  defense  experts  warned  that 
modernization  was  lagging  behind  that  of  the  navies  of  the  Arab 
states. 

Although  reduced  in  scope  from  earlier  plans,  a  modernization 
program  for  the  navy  approved  in  1988  included  the  acquisition 
of  three  Saar  5 -class  corvettes  to  be  built  in  the  United  States  and 
three  Dolphin-class  diesel  submarines  to  be  built  in  West  Germany, 
and  the  upgrading  of  existing  patrol  boats.  The  1 , 000-ton  Saar  5s, 
which  would  be  the  most  potent  surface  vessels  in  the  fleet,  would 
each  be  equipped  with  Harpoon  and  Gabriel  missiles,  as  well  as 
a  helicopter.  They  would  considerably  enhance  the  navy's  range 
and  offensive  capability. 

In  1988  the  fleet  contained  approximately  seventy  combat  ves- 
sels, including  three  submarines,  three  missile-armed  hydrofoils, 
twenty-two  fast  attack  craft  equipped  with  Israeli-built  Gabriel  mis- 
siles, and  thirty-two  coastal  patrol  boats  (see  table  13,  Appendix  A). 
In  assembling  its  fleet,  the  navy  had  shunned  large  vessels,  prefer- 
ring small  ships  with  high  firepower,  speed,  and  maneuverability. 
The  Reshef-class  fast  attack  craft,  the  heart  of  the  Israeli  fleet,  had 
a  range  of  about  2,400  kilometers.  The  fleet  operated  in  two  un- 
connected bodies  of  water — on  the  Mediterranean  Sea,  where  major 
naval  ports  were  located  at  Haifa  and  Ashdod,  and  on  the  Gulf 
of  Aqaba,  with  a  naval  facility  at  Elat.  The  first  Reshefs  were  sta- 
tioned in  the  Red  Sea  but  were  redeployed  to  the  Mediterranean, 
via  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  after  the  return  of  the  Sinai  Penin- 
sula to  Egypt.  As  of  1988,  the  naval  units  protecting  shipping  on 
the  Gulf  of  Aqaba  were  primarily  Dabur-class  coastal  patrol  boats. 

The  navy  had  not  established  a  marine  corps,  although  it  had 
created  an  elite  unit  of  about  300  underwater  commandos  who  had 


284 


National  Security 


proved  to  be  highly  successful  in  amphibious  assault  and  sabotage 
operations.  Its  naval  air  arm  was  limited  to  maritime  reconnais- 
sance conducted  with  Israeli-produced  Seascan  aircraft  and  res- 
cue and  surveillance  missions  performed  with  Bell  helicopters.  With 
a  moderate  number  of  landing  craft,  Israel  could  deliver  small  forces 
of  troops  and  armored  equipment  for  beach  landings  in  the  eastern 
Mediterranean.  This  capability  was  demonstrated  in  June  1982, 
when  these  amphibious  units  successfully  landed  an  assault  force 
of  tanks,  armored  personnel  carriers,  engineering  equipment,  and 
paratroops  behind  PLO  positions  near  Sidon  on  the  Lebanese  coast. 

Air  Force 

By  a  tremendous  effort,  Israel  assembled  a  motley  group  of  com- 
bat aircraft  when  Arab  air  forces  attacked  it  after  the  declaration 
of  independence  in  1948.  The  first  airplanes  came  from  Czecho- 
slovakia, which  furnished  propeller-driven  Messerschmitts  and 
reconditioned  Spitfires  from  World  War  II.  Czechoslovakia  also 
trained  the  first  Israeli  pilots,  although  these  few  were  quickly  sup- 
plemented by  hundreds  of  experienced  volunteers  from  a  number 
of  countries.  The  prestige  of  the  air  force  was  enhanced  after  its 
spectacular  success  during  the  June  1967  War,  and  the  subsequent 
decade  saw  an  unprecedented  increase  in  its  manpower  and  equip- 
ment resources.  Since  1971  the  air  force  has  also  assumed  full 
responsibility  for  air  defense. 

In  1988  the  air  force  consisted  of  about  28,000  men,  of  whom 
approximately  9,000  were  career  professionals,  and  19,000  were 
conscripts  assigned  primarily  to  air  defense  units.  An  additional 
50,000  reserve  members  were  available  for  mobilization. 

The  air  force  commander,  who  was  directly  responsible  to  the 
chief  of  staff,  supervised  a  small  staff  consisting  of  operations,  train- 
ing, intelligence,  quartermaster,  and  manpower  branches,  at  air 
force  headquarters  in  Tel  Aviv.  Orders  went  directly  from  the  air 
force  commander  to  base  commanders,  each  of  whom  controlled 
a  wing  of  several  squadrons.  As  of  1988,  Israel  had  nineteen  com- 
bat squadrons,  including  twelve  fighter-interceptor  squadrons,  six 
fighter  squadrons,  and  one  reconnaissance  squadron. 

The  mainstays  of  the  combat  element  of  524  aircraft  were  of  four 
types:  the  F-16  multirole  tactical  fighter,  the  first  of  which  became 
operational  in  Israel  in  1980;  the  larger  and  heavier  F-15  fighter 
designed  to  maintain  air  superiority,  first  delivered  in  1976;  the 
F-4  Phantom,  a  two-seater  fighter  and  attack  aircraft,  delivered 
to  Israel  between  1969  and  1977;  and  the  Kfir,  an  Israeli- 
manufactured  fighter  plane  first  delivered  to  the  air  force  in  1975, 
and  based  on  the  French-designed  Mirage  III.  The  air  force  also 


285 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

kept  in  service  as  a  reserve  older  A-4  Skyhawks  first  acqui 
1966.  All  of  these  models  were  expected  to  be  retained  in  thv 
ventory  into  the  next  century,  although  the  Skyhawks  would 
used  primarily  for  training  and  as  auxiliary  aircraft. 

Israel's  project  to  design  and  build  a  second-generation  in- 
digenous jet  fighter,  the  Lavi  (lion  cub),  was  cancelled  in  1987 
because  of  expense.  Instead,  Israel  was  to  take  delivery  of  seventy- 
five  advanced  F-16C  and  F-16D  fighters  produced  in  the  United 
States.  The  air  force  inventory  also  included  a  large  number  of 
electronic  countermeasure  and  airborne  early  warning  aircraft, 
cargo  transports  and  utility  aircraft,  trainers,  and  helicopters. 
Boeing  707s  had  been  converted  for  in-flight  refueling  of  F- 15s  and 
F-16s  (see  table  14,  Appendix  A). 

Israeli  air  force  commanders  pointed  out  that  the  ratio  of  com- 
bat aircraft  available  to  Israel  and  the  total  of  all  Arab  air  forces, 
including  Egypt  and  Libya,  was  on  the  order  of  1:4  in  1987. 
Nevertheless,  Israel's  superior  maintenance  standards  and  higher 
pilot-to-aircraft  ratio  meant  that  it  could  fly  more  sorties  per  air- 
craft per  day.  Israel  also  enjoyed  an  advantage  in  precision  weapons 
delivery  systems  and  in  its  ability  to  suppress  Arab  air  defense  mis- 
sile systems. 

With  little  expansion  of  the  air  force  contemplated,  emphasis  was 
placed  on  motivating  and  training  pilots  and  relying  on  versatile, 
high  performance  aircraft.  The  Israeli  air  force  repeatedly  demon- 
strated its  superior  combat  performance.  During  the  June  1967 
War,  waves  of  successive  bombings  of  Egyptian  and  Syrian  air- 
fields caused  tremendous  damage.  The  Arab  air  forces  lost  469  air- 
craft, nearly  400  of  them  on  the  ground.  Only  forty-six  Israeli  planes 
were  destroyed.  The  October  1973  War  was  marked  by  a  large 
number  of  dogfights  in  which  the  Israelis  prevailed,  claiming  the 
destruction  of  227  enemy  airplanes  at  a  cost  of  15  Israeli  aircraft. 
On  the  other  hand,  sixty  Israeli  airplanes  were  lost  in  missions  in 
support  of  ground  forces.  In  the  Lebanon  fighting  in  1982,  Israeli 
airplanes  destroyed  most  of  the  Syrian  missile  sites  in  the  Biqa 
Valley.  The  Israeli  air  force  also  dominated  the  air  battle,  bring- 
ing down  ninety  Syrian  aircraft  without  a  loss. 

The  air  force  had  demonstrated  its  ability  to  bring  Israel's  mili- 
tary power  to  bear  at  distant  points  and  in  unconventional  opera- 
tions. In  1976  its  transport  aircraft  ferried  troops  to  the  Entebbe 
airport  in  Uganda  to  rescue  passengers  on  a  commercial  airplane 
hijacked  by  Arab  terrorists.  In  June  1981,  F-16  fighter-bombers 
destroyed  the  Osiraq  (Osiris-Iraq)  nuclear  research  reactor  near 
Baghdad,  Iraq,  flying  at  low  levels  over  Saudi  Arabian  and  Iraqi 
territory  to  evade  radar  detection.  In  1985  Israeli  F-15s  refueled 


286 


National  Security 


in  flight  and  bombed  the  headquarters  of  the  PLO  near  Tunis, 
Tunisia,  at  a  distance  of  more  than  2,000  kilometers  from  their 
bases. 

Nahal 

The  Pioneer  Fighting  Youth  (Noar  Halutzi  Lohem — Nahal)  was 
an  organization  that  combined  military  service  with  agricultural 
training  in  a  tradition  that  recalled  the  vision  of  the  original  Zionist 
pioneers.  The  primary  activity  of  Nahal,  one  of  the  "functional 
commands"  within  the  IDF  organizational  structure,  was  the  es- 
tablishment and  maintenance  of  military  and  agricultural  outposts 
or  settlements.  Nahal' s  military  missions  were  to  provide  advance 
warning,  to  serve  as  a  first  line  of  defense  against  ground  attack 
along  the  borders,  to  prevent  infiltration,  and  to  assist  and  sup- 
port Israeli  occupation  authorities  in  the  territories.  Its  non- 
military  missions  were  to  develop  previously  unused  land  for 
agriculture,  to  assist  in  the  socialization  of  immigrant  and  delin- 
quent youth,  and,  since  1967,  to  assert  Israeli  rule  in  the  immedi- 
ate area  surrounding  new  settlements.  Many  military  commanders, 
however,  felt  that  the  program  siphoned  off  some  of  the  best  qual- 
ity recruits  for  lower  priority  duty.  Under  pressure  from  the  army, 
the  system  was  altered  so  that  only  about  one-third  of  a  conscript's 
service  was  in  agricultural  training  and  on  a  kibbutz,  the  remain- 
ing time  being  devoted  to  regular  military  activities. 

In  1988  Nahal  had  an  estimated  total  strength  of  5,000  men  and 
women  who  had  volunteered  upon  call-up.  The  basic  unit  was  the 
platoon,  which  ranged  from  about  twenty  to  eighty  young  people 
depending  on  assignment.  A  small  headquarters  served  as  a  com- 
mand element  for  a  number  of  platoons  located  in  the  same  general 
area.  Platoons  were  assigned  either  to  reinforce  existing  frontier 
settlements  or  to  establish  new  ones  in  areas  unsuitable  for  develop- 
ment by  the  civilian  population.  Strategic  considerations  were  fun- 
damental in  selecting  locations  for  Nahal  units.  Some  sites  were 
later  abandoned  as  no  longer  useful;  others  became  permanent 
civilian  settlements. 

Gadna 

The  Youth  Corps  (Gdudei  Noar — Gadna),  another  IDF  "func- 
tional command,"  consisted  in  1988  of  more  than  30,000  young 
men  and  women  aged  fourteen  to  seventeen,  who  were  formed  into 
battalions,  each  under  the  command  of  an  IDF  captain.  One  of 
numerous  youth  groups,  Gadna  was  administered  by  the  Minis- 
try of  Education  and  Culture,  with  IDF  officers  serving  as  advisers 
to  the  ministry.  Obligatory  for  most  secondary- school  students, 


287 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Gadna  introduced  them  to  the  common  Israeli  experience  of  army 
life  and  indoctrinated  them  as  to  Israel's  special  security  situation. 
Time  spent  in  training  increased  from  fifteen  days  yearly  plus  one 
hour  per  week  during  the  ninth  year  of  school  to  roughly  forty  days 
a  year  in  the  twelfth  year  of  school.  Over  the  years,  its  emphasis 
had  shifted  from  weapons  familiarity  and  drilling  to  sports,  physi- 
cal fitness,  and  camping.  Gadna  also  participated  in  the  socializa- 
tion of  recent  immigrants  and  the  rehabilitation  of  juvenile 
delinquents  to  qualify  them  for  military  service.  It  had  not  been 
mobilized  for  military  tasks  since  the  War  of  Independence  in  1 948 , 
although  Gadna  members  had  performed  support  services  during 
later  emergencies. 

Conscription 

Military  service  in  Israel  was  mandatory,  beginning  at  age  eigh- 
teen, for  male  and  female  citizens  and  resident  aliens.  The  length 
of  compulsory  military  service  has  varied  according  to  IDF  per- 
sonnel needs.  In  1988  male  conscripts  served  three  years  and  females 
twenty  months.  New  immigrants,  if  younger  than  eighteen  years 
of  age  upon  arrival,  were  subject  to  the  same  terms  of  conscrip- 
tion when  they  reached  eighteen.  Male  immigrants  aged  nineteen 
to  twenty-three  served  for  progressively  reduced  periods,  and  those 
twenty-four  or  older  were  conscripted  for  only  120  days.  Female 
immigrants  over  the  age  of  nineteen  were  exempted  from  compul- 
sory service.  Immigrants  who  had  served  in  the  armed  forces  of 
their  countries  of  origin  had  the  length  of  their  compulsory  service 
in  Israel  reduced. 

Exemptions  for  Jewish  males  were  rare,  and  about  90  percent 
of  the  approximately  30,000  men  who  reached  age  eighteen  each 
year  were  drafted.  Several  hundred  ultra-Orthodox  students  study- 
ing at  religious  schools,  yeshivot  (sing.,  yeshiva — see  Glossary)  fol- 
lowed a  special  four-year  program  combining  studies  and  military 
duty.  The  Ministry  of  Defense  estimated,  however,  that  in  1988 
about  20,000  of  the  most  rigidly  Orthodox  yeshiva  students,  who 
felt  little  allegiance  to  Zionism  and  the  Israeli  state,  were  escaping 
the  draft  through  an  endless  series  of  deferments.  From  a  strictly 
military  point  of  view,  their  value  to  the  IDF  would  be  limited  be- 
cause of  restrictions  on  the  jobs  they  would  be  able  or  willing  to 
perform.  Although  the  military  served  kosher  food  and  adhered 
to  laws  of  the  Jewish  sabbath  and  holidays,  secular  soldiers  were 
lax  in  their  observance. 

An  academic  reserve  enabled  students  to  earn  a  bachelor's  degree 
before  service,  usually  in  a  specialized  capacity,  following  basic 
training;  such  students  reported  for  reserve  duty  during  summer 


288 


National  Security 


vacations.  Conscientious  objectors  were  not  excused  from  service, 
although  an  effort  was  made  to  find  a  noncombatant  role  for  them. 
The  minimum  physical  and  educational  standards  for  induction 
were  very  low  to  insure  that  a  maximum  number  of  Jewish  males 
performed  some  form  of  service  in  the  IDF.  Conscripts  were 
screened  on  the  basis  of  careful  medical  and  psychological  tests. 
Those  with  better  education  and  physical  condition  were  more  likely 
to  be  assigned  to  combat  units.  Sons  and  brothers  of  soldiers  who 
had  died  in  service  were  not  accepted  for  service  in  combat  units 
unless  a  parental  waiver  was  obtained. 

Several  elite  units  were  composed  exclusively  of  volunteers.  They 
included  air  force  pilots,  paratroops,  the  submarine  service,  naval 
commandos,  and  certain  army  reconnaissance  units.  Because  of 
the  large  number  of  candidates,  these  units  were  able  to  impose 
their  own  demanding  selection  procedures.  The  air  force  enjoyed 
first  priority,  enabling  it  to  select  for  its  pilot  candidates  the  prime 
volunteers  of  each  conscript  class.  Conscripts  also  could  express 
preferences  for  service  in  one  of  the  regular  combat  units.  The 
Golani  Infantry  Brigade,  which  had  acquired  an  image  as  a  gal- 
lant frontline  force  in  the  1973  and  1982  conflicts,  and  the  armored 
corps  were  among  the  preferred  regular  units. 

Women  in  the  IDF 

Standards  for  admission  to  the  IDF  were  considerably  higher 
for  women,  and  exemptions  were  given  much  more  freely.  Only 
about  50  percent  of  the  approximately  30,000  females  eligible  an- 
nually were  inducted.  Nearly  20  percent  of  eligible  women  were 
exempted  for  "religious  reasons";  nearly  10  percent  because  they 
were  married;  and  most  of  the  remaining  20  percent  were  rejected 
as  not  meeting  minimum  educational  standards  (eighth  grade  dur- 
ing the  1980s).  A  law  passed  in  1978  made  exemptions  for  women 
on  religious  grounds  automatic  upon  the  signing  of  a  simple  decla- 
ration attesting  to  the  observance  of  orthodox  religious  practices. 
This  legislation  raised  considerable  controversy,  and  IDF  officials 
feared  that  the  exemption  could  be  abused  by  any  nonreligious 
woman  who  did  not  wish  to  serve  and  thus  further  exacerbate  the 
already  strained  personnel  resources  of  the  IDF.  Women  exempted 
on  religious  grounds  were  legally  obliged  to  fulfill  a  period  of  alter- 
native service  doing  social  or  educational  work  assigned  to  them. 
In  practice,  however,  women  performed  such  service  only  on  a 
voluntary  basis. 

Female  conscripts  served  in  the  Women's  Army  Corps,  com- 
monly known  by  its  Hebrew  acronym,  Chen.  After  a  five- week 
period  of  basic  training,  women  served  as  clerks,  drivers,  welfare 


289 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

workers,  nurses,  radio  operators,  flight  controllers,  ordnance  per- 
sonnel, and  course  instructors.  Women  had  not  engaged  in  direct 
combat  since  the  War  of  Independence. 

Reserve  Duty 

The  Defense  Service  Law  required  that  each  male  conscript,  upon 
completion  of  his  active-duty  service,  had  an  obligation  to  perform 
reserve  duty  (miluirri)  and  continue  to  train  on  a  regular  basis  until 
age  fifty-four.  Very  few  women  were  required  to  do  reserve  duty 
but  were  subject  to  call-up  until  the  age  of  thirty-four  if  they  had 
no  children.  The  duration  of  annual  reserve  duty  depended  on  secu- 
rity and  budgetary  factors,  as  well  as  specialty  and  rank.  After  1967 
reserve  duty  generally  lengthened  as  the  IDF  experienced  a  grow- 
ing manpower  need.  The  average  length  of  reserve  duty  was  tem- 
porarily increased  from  thirty  to  sixty  days  in  early  1988  to  help 
deal  with  the  Palestinian  uprising.  After  about  age  thirty-nine,  reser- 
vists no  longer  served  in  combat  units. 

This  comprehensive  reserve  system,  the  most  demanding  of  any 
in  the  world,  was  vital  to  Israel's  defense  posture.  It  allowed  the 
country  to  limit  the  full-time  manpower  within  the  IDF,  thus  free- 
ing vitally  needed  people  for  civilian  tasks  during  most  of  the  year. 
Because  of  the  reserve  system,  the  IDF  could  triple  in  size  within 
forty-eight  to  seventy-two  hours  of  the  announcement  of  a  full 
mobilization.  The  system  was  burdensome  for  most  Israeli  citizens 
but  provided  a  source  of  escape  from  everyday  routine  for  some. 
Most  Israelis  regarded  reserve  duty  as  a  positive  social  phenome- 
non, making  an  important  contribution  to  democracy  by  reduc- 
ing class  distinctions.  Nevertheless,  it  was  undeniably  a  source  of 
discontent  to  many,  especially  those  assigned  to  dangerous  and  dis- 
agreeable patrol  and  policing  duties  in  southern  Lebanon  and  in 
the  occupied  territories.  In  the  past,  evasion  of  reserve  duty  had 
been  regarded  as  a  violation  of  the  individual's  duty  to  the  nation, 
verging  on  treasonous  behavior.  In  September  1988,  however,  the 
media  revealed  the  existence  of  a  bribery  ring  of  doctors  and  senior 
IDF  personnel  officers  that  sold  medical  exemptions  for  sums  rang- 
ing from  US$300  to  US$500.  The  lengthy  military  obligation  was 
also  believed  to  be  a  major  cause  of  emigration,  although  the  num- 
ber who  had  left  Israel  for  this  reason  could  not  be  accurately  esti- 
mated. The  IDF  required  Israeli  citizens  of  military  age  to  obtain 
the  permission  of  their  reserve  unit  before  traveling  abroad. 

Training 

Upon  induction  at  the  age  of  eighteen,  conscripts  were  assigned 
to  one  of  three  types  of  basic  training:  generalized,  for  women  and 


290 


Israel  Defense  Forces  members  training  in  amphibious  operations 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Israel,  Washington 
Soldier  operating  antiaircraft  gun 
Courtesy  Israel  Defense  Forces 


291 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


for  men  with  some  physical  limitation;  corps,  for  conscripts  assigned 
to  noninfantry  units,  such  as  armor  or  artillery;  and  brigade,  for 
all  infantry  recruits.  Generalized  basic  training,  which  was  an  orien- 
tation program  including  the  use  of  basic  military  weapons,  lasted 
one  month.  Corps  training  lasted  from  three  to  four  months,  en- 
compassing infantry-type  training  and  indoctrination  into  the 
recruits'  assigned  corps.  It  was  followed  by  advanced  training  of 
a  more  specialized  nature,  after  which  trainees  were  assigned  to 
their  permanent  corps  units.  Brigade  basic  training,  the  most  ardu- 
ous, lasted  from  four  to  five  months.  It  was  conducted  at  training 
bases  of  the  individual  infantry  and  airborne  brigades  and,  upon 
completion,  the  company  created  at  the  beginning  of  basic  train- 
ing remained  together  as  a  company  in  the  brigade. 

Basic  training  was  an  extremely  strenuous  indoctrination  into 
the  IDF,  involving  forced  marches,  bivouacs,  night  exercises,  and 
obstacle  courses,  focused  on  operations  at  the  squad  and  platoon 
level.  It  also  stressed  strengthening  the  recruits'  knowledge  of  the 
country's  origins  and  traditions,  and  identification  with  national 
ideals  and  goals.  Visits  were  made  to  kibbutzim,  moshavim  (sing., 
moshav — see  Glossary),  and  places  venerated  in  Jewish  or  IDF  his- 
tory. Basic  training  also  served  as  a  melting  pot,  bringing  together 
different  ethnic  groups  and  individuals  from  a  variety  of  socio- 
economic backgrounds.  The  IDF  played  an  especially  important 
role  in  the  education  and  assimilation  of  new  immigrants. 

After  about  five  months  of  service  with  their  field  units,  all  sol- 
diers were  evaluated  for  their  leadership  potential.  About  half  quali- 
fied for  further  training  as  squad  leaders,  tank  commanders,  and 
other  types  of  noncommissioned  officers  (NCOs).  Those  selected 
were  assigned  to  a  junior  command  course  of  three  to  four  months. 
Considered  exceptionally  demanding,  the  course  was  conducted 
mostly  in  the  field,  where  the  students  acted  in  rotating  command 
roles  in  daytime  and  nighttime  exercises.  Those  successfully  com- 
pleting the  course  either  returned  to  their  original  units  as  junior 
NCOs  for  a  further  six  to  ten  months  or  were  assigned  as  basic 
training  instructors.  During  this  phase,  they  were  further  evaluated 
for  their  potential  as  officers.  This  evaluation  included  ratings  by 
their  fellow  soldiers,  recommendations  by  commanders,  and  screen- 
ings by  military  psychologists.  Those  who  were  not  selected  or  who 
rejected  officer  training  (often  because  they  were  reluctant  to  serve 
the  necessary  additional  year),  remained  as  NCOs  until  they  had 
completed  their  three-year  tour  of  active  service. 

All  officer  candidates  were  selected  from  among  conscripts  who 
had  distinguished  themselves  in  their  initial  period  of  service;  Israel 
had  no  military  academy  as  a  source  of  officers.  Three  secondary 


292 


National  Security 


schools  stressed  military  training,  however,  and  assigned  students 
to  military  camps  during  summer  vacations.  Graduates  of  these 
high  schools  were  given  the  rank  of  corporal  on  enlistment  and  most 
went  on  to  become  officers.  After  junior  officers  completed  their 
obligatory  service,  they  either  shifted  to  reserve  officer  status  or 
signed  contracts  (renewable  every  three  to  five  years)  as  career  sol- 
diers within  the  standing  ranks  of  the  IDF.  A  wide  variety  of  Jew- 
ish social  and  economic  backgrounds  were  represented  in  the  officer 
corps,  although  sabras  (see  Glossary),  Ashkenazim  (see  Glossary), 
and  members  of  kibbutzim  and  moshavim  were  represented  well 
beyond  their  respective  percentages  in  the  society  as  a  whole. 

The  IDF  course  for  officer  candidates  was  conducted  at  a  single 
base  but  was  divided  into  three  types:  the  six-month  infantry  course 
for  infantry  and  paratroop  units;  the  two-month  combat  arms  course 
for  officers  in  armor,  artillery,  engineering,  and  air  defense;  and 
the  two-month  basic  officer  course  for  all  candidates  for  the  sup- 
port services.  The  latter  two  courses  were  each  followed  by  special- 
ized three-month  courses  given  by  the  corps  to  which  the  officer 
was  assigned.  Those  who  completed  the  course  (the  failure  rate  was 
as  high  as  50  percent)  returned  to  their  units  commissioned  as  sec- 
ond lieutenants  to  be  assigned  as  platoon  commanders.  Such  officers 
generally  served  for  two  further  years  of  active  duty,  followed  by 
many  years  of  reserve  officer  status. 

About  10  percent  of  junior  officers  joined  the  permanent  ser- 
vice corps  after  their  national  service,  signing  up  for  an  initial  period 
of  two  to  three  years.  They  usually  were  assigned  as  company  com- 
manders, sometimes  after  filling  a  staff  or  training  position.  Some 
of  the  young  officers  attended  the  company  commanders'  course 
run  by  their  corps,  although  the  bulk  of  those  officers  in  the  course 
tended  to  be  reservists.  Those  men  opting  for  longer  careers  in  the 
military  were  later  assigned  to  the  Command  and  Staff  School,  a 
year-long  course  designed  primarily  for  majors  as  a  prerequisite 
to  promotion  to  lieutenant  colonel.  A  small  number  of  brigadier 
generals  and  promotable  colonels,  along  with  senior  civilian  offi- 
cials, attended  a  one-year  course  at  the  National  Defense  College 
dealing  with  military,  strategic,  and  management  subjects.  A  few 
senior  IDF  officers  attended  staff  colleges  abroad,  mainly  in  Brit- 
ain, France,  and  the  United  States. 

Promotions  for  regular  officers  were  rapid.  Company  com- 
manders were  generally  about  twenty-five  years  of  age,  battalion 
commanders  thirty,  and  brigade  commanders  thirty-five  to  forty. 
Retirement  was  obligatory  at  age  fifty-five,  although  most  offi- 
cers left  the  service  between  forty  and  forty-five  years  of  age,  in 


293 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

accordance  with  a  "two  career"  policy  that  encouraged  and  as- 
sisted officers  to  move  into  responsible  civilian  jobs. 

Minorities  in  the  IDF 

Christian  and  Muslim  Arabs  were  exempted  from  obligatory 
service  and,  although  they  could  volunteer,  were  often  screened 
out  by  security  checks.  Beginning  in  1987,  however,  the  IDF  made 
efforts  to  boost  recruitment  of  Christian  Arabs  and  beduins.  It  was 
believed  that  this  policy  portended  the  ultimate  introduction  of  com- 
pulsory service  in  these  two  communities,  although  there  was  cer- 
tain to  be  resistance  by  both  the  IDF  and  the  minority  communities. 
As  of  1988,  Israel's  Druze  and  Muslim  Circassian  minorities  were 
subject  to  conscription  (see  Minority  Groups,  ch.  2). 

In  1956  Druze  leaders,  feeling  that  being  exempted  from  mili- 
tary service  denied  them  full  rights  of  citizenship,  requested  that 
their  constituency  be  drafted.  During  the  1980s,  however,  resent- 
ment grew  within  the  Druze  community  because  they  were  drafted 
while  other  Arabs  were  exempt.  In  1987  the  IDF  appointed  its  first 
Druze  general. 

Minorities  tended  to  serve  in  one  of  several  special  units:  the 
Minorities  Unit,  also  known  as  Unit  300;  the  Druze  Reconnais- 
sance Unit;  and  the  Trackers  Unit,  which  comprised  mostly  be- 
duins. In  1982  the  IDF  general  staff  decided  to  integrate  the  armed 
forces  by  opening  up  other  units  to  minorities,  while  placing  some 
Jewish  conscripts  in  the  Minorities  Unit.  In  1988  the  intelligence 
corps  and  the  air  force  remained  closed  to  minorities. 

Pay  and  Benefits 

Traditionally,  conditions  of  service  in  the  IDF  were  Spartan; 
Israeli  soldiers  served  out  of  a  patriotic  desire  to  defend  the 
homeland  rather  than  for  material  benefits.  During  the  1980s, 
however,  as  manpower  needs  of  the  IDF  grew  substantially — 
particularly  the  requirement  to  attract  skilled  technicians  from  the 
civilian  sector — material  considerations  became  more  important. 
The  nearly  continual  cycle  of  increases  in  pay  and  benefits  were 
meant  to  attract  additional  manpower  and  to  compensate  for  the 
ever-rising  cost  of  living. 

Salaries  for  career  soldiers  were  linked  to  salaries  in  the  civilian 
sector;  thus,  compensation  for  education,  skills,  and  responsibili- 
ties in  the  IDF  was  at  least  commensurate  with  that  in  the  civilian 
sector,  where  wages  were  largely  standardized.  In  spite  of  the  rela- 
tively high  pay  and  allowances,  conditions  of  service  were  often 
onerous  and  comforts  were  few.  Accommodations  within  units  were 
austere.  Extended  separations  from  family  and  frequent  relocations 


294 


National  Security 


were  common.  Career  soldiers  received  supplements  and  benefits 
unavailable  to  civilians,  but  it  was  difficult,  if  not  impossible,  for 
a  career  soldier  to  moonlight,  a  practice  prevalent  among  civilians. 

Basic  pay  was  low  and,  because  it  changed  more  slowly  than  other 
salary  components,  had  become  progressively  less  significant  in  the 
soldier's  total  pay.  Supplements  were  added  for  cost  of  living  and 
families,  based  on  size.  Costs  of  higher  education  and  free  medi- 
cal care  were  provided  for  all  family  members,  and  exchange  and 
commissary  facilities  offered  substantial  discounts  on  purchases. 
The  IDF  subsidized  housing  in  three  ways:  the  IDF  could  provide 
base  quarters  at  minimal  rents,  long-term,  low-interest  loans  for 
purchase  of  homes,  or  assisted  rentals  in  the  civilian  market.  A 
generous  retirement  program  covered  those  who  had  completed 
ten  years  of  service  and  reached  the  age  of  forty.  Every  officer  with 
the  rank  of  lieutenant  colonel  or  above  had  a  car  for  both  official 
and  private  use;  lower-ranking  officers  had  the  use  of  cars  on  a 
shared  basis.  During  annual  leave,  an  officer  could  go  to  one  of 
several  seaside  family  resorts  operated  by  the  IDF. 

Conscript  soldiers  received  pay  and  benefits  far  below  those  of 
the  career  soldier.  Pay  was  minimal,  amounting  to  about  US$25 
a  month  for  a  private  in  1986.  Married  soldiers  received  a  monthly 
family  allowance  based  on  family  income,  as  well  as  a  rent  and 
utility  allowance.  A  demobilization  grant  was  paid  upon  discharge, 
and  unemployment  compensation  and  a  partial  income  tax  exemp- 
tion were  available  for  up  to  one  year.  Discharged  soldiers  theo- 
retically received  preference  in  hiring.  Former  conscripts  choosing 
to  settle  in  development  areas  could  obtain  loans  to  purchase 
apartments. 

Pay  and  benefits  for  the  reservist  while  on  active  duty  also  were 
less  than  for  the  career  soldier.  Reservist  pay  was  supplemented 
by  pay  from  civilian  employment.  Employers  regularly  contrib- 
uted a  small  percentage  of  the  employee's  salary  to  the  National 
Security  Fund,  from  which  the  employer  then  drew  to  pay  the 
reservist  while  he  or  she  was  on  active  duty.  Self-employed  reserv- 
ists could  put  money  into  the  fund  to  receive  a  salary  while  on  duty; 
if  they  chose  not  to  contribute  they  received  only  subsistence  pay 
while  on  active  duty.  Reservists  could  use  the  post  exchange  only 
while  on  active  duty. 

Retired  officers  received  from  2  to  4  percent  of  their  final  pay 
for  each  year  of  service,  depending  on  their  job.  Retired  pilots, 
for  example,  received  4  percent  and  were  said  to  live  quite  com- 
fortably in  retirement.  In  addition,  retired  officers  and  NCOs  con- 
tinued to  receive  a  reduced  portion  of  their  in-service  benefits. 
Disabled  veterans  received  extra  allowances  and  benefits.  Retiring 


295 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


officers  usually  sought  a  second  career;  the  IDF  helped  the  transi- 
tion into  civilian  life  by  offering  occupational  training  (a  course 
in  business  management,  for  example)  and  by  paying  the  retired 
officer's  full  salary  for  up  to  one  year  depending  on  rank  and  senior- 
ity, while  the  officer  searched  for  satisfactory  civilian  employment. 

Rank,  Insignia,  and  Uniforms 

Three  basic  commissioned  officer  ranks  existed  in  the  IDF:  com- 
mander of  tens  (segen);  commander  of  hundreds  (seren);  and  com- 
mander of  thousands  (aluf).  All  other  ranks  were  variations  of  these, 
with  prefixes  and  suffixes  to  indicate  relative  seniority.  Thus,  a  lieu- 
tenant general  was  rav  aluf,  a  major  general  was  aluf,  a  brigadier 
general  was  tat  aluf,  and  a  colonel  was  aluf  mishne.  A  captain  was 
seren  and  a  major  was  rav  seren.  Rank  titles  were  the  same  for  the 
ground  forces,  the  navy,  and  the  air  force.  The  rank  of  lieutenant 
general  was  held  by  only  one  officer  serving  on  active  duty,  the 
chief  of  staff.  Major  generals  included  each  of  the  three  area  com- 
manders, the  commander  of  the  ground  corps,  the  chiefs  of  the 
five  branches  of  the  general  staff,  and  the  commanders  of  the  navy 
and  air  force. 

United  States  equivalents  for  enlisted  ranks  were  less  exact  than 
for  officers.  The  three  senior  NCO  grades  were  often  equated  to 
warrant  officer  rank;  status  and  function  were  much  alike.  The 
lowest  career  NCO  rank  was  sergeant  (samal). 

For  ground  forces'  officers,  rank  insignia  were  brass  on  a  red 
background;  for  the  air  force,  silver  on  a  blue  background;  and 
for  the  navy,  the  standard  gold  worn  on  the  sleeve.  Officer  insig- 
nia were  worn  on  epaulets  on  top  of  both  shoulders.  Insignia  dis- 
tinctive to  each  service  were  worn  on  the  cap  (see  fig.  15). 

Enlisted  grades  wore  rank  insignia  on  the  sleeve,  halfway  be- 
tween the  shoulder  and  the  elbow.  For  the  army  and  air  force,  the 
insignia  were  white  with  blue  interwoven  threads  backed  with  the 
appropriate  corps  color.  Navy  personnel  wore  gold-colored  rank 
insignia  sewn  on  navy  blue  material. 

The  service  uniform  for  all  ground  forces  personnel  was  olive 
green;  navy  and  air  force  uniforms  were  beige.  The  uniforms  con- 
sisted of  shirt,  trousers,  sweater,  jacket  or  blouse,  and  shoes.  The 
navy  had  an  all  white  dress  uniform.  Green  fatigues  were  the  same 
for  winter  and  summer.  Heavy  winter  gear  was  issued  as  needed. 
Women's  dress  paralleled  that  of  men  but  consisted  of  a  skirt,  a 
blouse,  and  a  garrison  cap.  Headgear  included  a  service  cap  for 
dress  and  semi-dress  and  a  field  cap  worn  with  fatigues.  Army  and 
air  force  personnel  also  had  berets,  usually  worn  in  lieu  of  the  service 
cap.  The  color  of  the  air  force  beret  was  blue- gray;  for  armored 


296 


National  Security 


corps,  mechanized  infantry,  and  artillery  personnel,  it  was  black; 
for  infantry,  olive  drab;  for  paratroopers,  red;  for  combat  engineers, 
gray;  and  for  the  Golani  Infantry  Brigade,  purple.  For  all  other 
army  personnel,  except  combat  units,  the  beret  for  men  was  green 
and  for  women,  black.  Women  in  the  navy  wore  a  black  beret  with 
gold  insignia. 

Awards  and  Decorations 

Awards  and  decorations  carried  considerable  prestige  in  the  IDF 
simply  because  so  few  were  given.  Scarcely  1 ,000  had  been  awarded 
from  the  War  of  Independence  through  the  Lebanon  invasion  of 
1982.  Under  a  revised  system  of  military  decorations  instituted  in 
1973,  all  soldiers  decorated  since  1948  received  one  of  three  medals 
that  would  be  used  subsequentiy  to  honor  those  who  acquitted  them- 
selves in  an  outstanding  manner  while  serving  in  the  IDF.  Each 
medal  was  accompanied  by  a  ribbon  worn  above  the  left  breast 
pocket.  The  least  prestigious,  Etour  HaMofet,  awarded  for  exem- 
plary conduct,  was  accompanied  by  a  blue  ribbon.  Etour  HaOz, 
awarded  for  bravery,  was  accompanied  by  a  red  ribbon.  The  highest 
medal,  Etour  HaGevora,  awarded  for  heroism,  had  been  presented 
to  fewer  than  thirty  IDF  soldiers  as  of  1988.  Its  color  was  yellow 
in  commemoration  of  those  Jews  who  had  committed  acts  of  hero- 
ism while  forced  to  wear  the  yellow  Star  of  David  during  the  Nazi 
era  and  during  the  Middle  Ages. 

Campaign  ribbons  were  awarded  for  service  in  the  War  of  In- 
dependence (1948-49),  the  1956  Sinai  Campaign,  the  wars  of  1967 
and  1973,  and  the  1982  invasion  of  Lebanon.  Badges  could  be  worn 
by  those  who  served  in  the  Palmach  and  in  the  Jewish  Brigade  be- 
fore the  formation  of  the  IDF.  In  addition,  soldiers  were  awarded 
a  special  emblem  representing  six  months  of  service  in  a  front-line 
combat  unit.  Each  independence  day,  the  president  of  Israel 
awarded  certificates  to  100  outstanding  soldiers,  both  conscripts 
and  careerists,  for  exceptional  soldierly  attributes. 

Discipline  and  Military  Justice 

Military  discipline  was  characterized  by  informality  in  relations 
between  officers  and  enlisted  men  and  apparent  lack  of  concern 
for  such  exterior  symbols  as  smartness  on  the  parade  ground  and 
military  appearance  and  bearing.  Little  attention  was  devoted  to 
military  drills  and  ceremonies,  and  uniform  regulations  were  not 
always  strictly  enforced.  Although  the  IDF  historically  viewed  such 
visible  manifestations  of  traditional  military  discipline  as  unimpor- 
tant as  long  as  the  level  of  performance  in  combat  remained  high, 
shortcomings  revealed  during  the  October  1973  War  resulted  in 


297 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


298 


National  Security 


a  renewed  concern  with  discipline.  The  Agranat  Commission,  which 
studied  the  failures  of  the  October  1973  War,  criticized  the  casual- 
ness  of  relations  between  ranks  and  suggested  that  lax  discipline 
had  led  to  deficiencies  in  such  vital  areas  as  the  maintenance  of 
weapons.  After  1973  there  was  some  tightening  up,  but  the  gen- 
eral feeling  was  that  stringent  spit-and-polish  style  disciplinary  mea- 
sures were  unnecessary  and  would  run  counter  to  the  egalitarian 
traditions  of  Zionism.  Veteran  commanders  feared  that  too  much 
emphasis  on  formal  discipline  risked  weakening  the  reliance  on  per- 
sonal commitment,  bravery,  and  unit  pride  that  had  repeatedly 
brought  victory  to  the  IDF. 

The  predominance  of  reserves  in  the  IDF  also  made  it  difficult 
to  enforce  rigid  military  discipline.  Relations  between  enlisted 
reservists  and  their  officers  were  informal.  Because  of  intermix- 
ing, this  attitude  tended  to  be  transferred  to  regular  troops  as  well. 
In  some  of  the  most  elite  units,  saluting  was  scorned  and  officers 
and  enlisted  men  addressed  each  other  by  first  names.  To  argue 
with  an  officer  as  an  equal  was  not  uncommon. 

During  the  1970s,  certain  kinds  of  unlawful  activities — 
particularly  drug  abuse,  but  also  thefts  and  violent  behavior — 
increased  markedly  within  the  IDF.  Most  commentators  attributed 
the  problem  to  the  post- 1973  policy  of  conscripting  former  crimi- 
nal offenders.  The  increase  in  drug  abuse,  particularly  hashish, 
also  was  attributed  to  increased  availability  of  illegal  drugs  in  soci- 
ety as  a  whole.  Career  soldiers  convicted  of  possession  of  illegal 
drugs  risked  dismissal.  Most  of  those  who  did  not  adjust  well  to 
military  life  were  assigned  to  service  support  units  where  they  would 
not  affect  the  overall  motivation  and  readiness  of  the  IDF. 

The  IDF  took  pride  in  promoting  a  humanistic  spirit  among  its 
members  and  in  seeking  to  avoid  unnecessary  bloodshed  and  civilian 
casualties  whenever  possible,  a  concept  known  as  "purity  of  arms." 
But  with  the  1982  invasion  of  Lebanon,  a  degree  of  indifference 
and  brutalization  set  in.  The  difficulty  of  fighting  hidden  guerril- 
las in  a  complex  but  generally  hostile  environment,  plus  the  ab- 
sence of  well-defined  political  and  military  goals,  eroded  standards 
of  conduct  and  morale.  Troops  often  acted  with  contempt  for  civilian 
life  and  property.  Whereas  previously  it  had  been  unheard  of,  es- 
pecially among  elite  units,  for  reservists  to  try  to  evade  duty,  com- 
manders now  struggled  against  reservist  efforts  to  avoid  service 
based  on  medical  or  other  pretexts. 

As  the  uprising  in  the  occupied  territories  intensified  during  1988, 
Israeli  psychologists  noted  further  evidence  of  these  tendencies.  The 
policy  of  placing  esprit  de  corps  above  tight  discipline  militated 
against  effective  policing  operations  to  contain  violence.  Excesses 


299 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

resulted  when  immature  soldiers  were  ordered  to  administer  beat- 
ings, break  bones,  or  damage  Arab  property.  Junior  officers  found 
it  difficult  to  interpret  orders  flexibly  or  to  contain  emotionally 
charged  troops  who  regarded  Arab  protesters  as  inferior  beings  (see 
Palestinian  Uprising,  December  1987-,  this  ch.). 

The  Military  Justice  Law  of  1955,  which  embraced  the  entire 
range  of  legal  matters  affecting  the  military  establishment,  governed 
the  conduct  of  IDF  personnel.  Under  its  provisions,  a  separate  and 
independent  system  of  military  courts  was  established;  military 
offenses  were  defined  and  maximum  authorized  punishments  were 
specified  in  each  case;  and  pretrial,  trial,  and  appeal  procedures 
and  rules  of  evidence  were  described  in  detail.  Military  law  ap- 
plied to  all  military  personnel,  including  reservists  on  active  duty, 
civilian  employees  of  the  IDF,  and  certain  other  civilians  engaged 
in  defense-related  activities.  Punishments  included  confinement  to 
camp,  loss  of  pay,  reprimand,  fine,  reduction  in  rank,  imprison- 
ment up  to  life,  and  death  (although  as  of  1988  neither  life  im- 
prisonment nor  the  death  penalty  had  ever  been  imposed  on  IDF 
personnel). 

Courts-martial  of  the  first  instance  included  district  courts,  naval 
courts,  field  courts,  and  special  courts  with  jurisdiction  over  officers 
above  the  rank  of  lieutenant  colonel.  All  courts  except  the  special 
court  were  composed  of  three  members,  at  least  one  of  whom  had 
to  be  a  legally  qualified  military  judge.  The  special  court  could  have 
three  or  five  members.  No  member  could  be  of  lower  rank  than 
the  accused.  The  district  court  was  the  basic  court-martial  of  first 
instance.  The  minister  of  defense  could  authorize  the  establishment 
of  field  courts  in  times  of  fighting. 

The  accused  could  act  as  his  or  her  own  defense  counsel  or  elect 
to  be  represented  by  another  military  person  or  by  a  civilian  law- 
yer authorized  to  practice  before  courts-martial.  A  three-member 
court-martial  empaneled  from  members  of  the  Military  Court  of 
Appeal  decided  appeals. 

The  IDF  in  the  Occupied  Territories 

In  the  course  of  the  June  1967  War,  Israel  occupied  the  West 
Bank,  East  Jerusalem,  the  Golan  Heights,  the  Gaza  Strip,  and  the 
Sinai  Peninsula.  As  a  result  of  the  1979  Treaty  of  Peace  Between 
Egypt  and  Israel,  the  Sinai  Peninsula  was  restored  to  Egypt.  Israel 
unilaterally  annexed  East  Jerusalem  soon  after  the  June  1967  War, 
reasserting  this  fact  in  July  1980,  and  in  1981  it  annexed  the  Golan 
Heights  (see  fig.  16).  As  of  1988,  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip, 
with  a  combined  population  of  at  least  1,400,000  Arabs,  remained 
under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Ministry  of  Defense.  The  57,000  Jews 


300 


National  Security 


residing  in  settlements  in  the  two  territories  in  1988  came  under 
the  central  government  of  Israel  proper  (see  figs.  17  and  18). 

The  primary  mission  of  the  military  government  was  to  main- 
tain internal  security  in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip.  The 
Border  Police,  the  Shin  Bet,  the  Israel  Police,  and  the  IDF  all  shared 
in  the  task  of  maintaining  order.  Immediately  upon  occupation  of 
the  territories  in  June  1967,  Israel  launched  an  intense  pacifica- 
tion program.  Harsh  measures  were  used  to  suppress  local  non- 
cooperation  campaigns,  strikes,  and  especially  terrorist  activities. 
Local  residents  whom  Israeli  officials  deemed  subversive  were 
deported,  Arab  homes  believed  to  house  anti-Israeli  activists  and 
their  supporters  were  destroyed,  and  dissenters  could  be  placed  in 
administrative  detention  for  up  to  six  months.  These  and  other 
repressive  measures  derived  from  the  emergency  regulations  of  the 
British  Mandate  period. 

Military  Government 

The  minister  of  defense  held  responsibility  for  administration 
and  security  of  the  Arab  population  of  the  occupied  territories.  Until 
1981,  actual  command  passed  from  the  minister  of  defense  to  the 
Department  of  Military  Government,  a  functional  command  within 
the  general  staff,  and  from  this  department  to  the  regional  com- 
manders of  the  Gaza  Strip  and  the  West  Bank  in  their  roles  as  mili- 
tary governors.  The  military  governors  exercised  primarily  a 
coordinating  function  because  day-to-day  operations  in  the  terri- 
tories were  carried  out  not  by  military  officers,  but  by  civilian 
representatives  of  the  various  ministries. 

In  1981  Israel  established  a  separate  civilian  administration  in 
the  territories  to  exercise  the  civil  powers  of  the  military  govern- 
ment. This  administration  lacked  authority  to  enact  legislation.  The 
civilian  officials  who  carried  out  these  executive  functions  nomi- 
nally drew  their  authority  from  the  military  government;  in  fact, 
they  were  part  of  the  permanent  staff  of  Israeli  ministries  and 
received  directives  from  their  ministerial  superiors.  This  relinquish- 
ment of  responsibility  by  the  Ministry  of  Defense  and  its  assump- 
tion by  Israeli  civil  authorities  gathered  momentum  under 
governments  controlled  by  the  right-wing  Likud  Bloc,  whose  poli- 
cies sought  to  achieve  de  facto  annexation  by  subordinating  all 
civilian  matters  in  the  occupied  territories  to  ministries  of  the 
government  in  Jerusalem. 

A  civilian  "coordinator  of  activities"  in  the  Ministry  of  Defense 
acted  in  the  name  of  the  minister  of  defense  to  advise,  guide,  coor- 
dinate, and  supervise  all  government  ministries,  state  institutions, 
and  public  authorities  in  the  occupied  territories.  In  1988  the 


301 


302 


National  Security 


coordinator  was  Shmuel  Goren.  Neither  the  minister  of  defense 
nor  the  coordinator  of  activities,  however,  had  veto  powers  over 
officials  answerable  to  civilian  ministries  in  Jerusalem. 

Local  government  in  areas  of  the  West  Bank  occupied  by  Pales- 
tinians consisted  of  twenty-five  towns  having  municipal  status  and 
eighty-two  village  councils  operating  under  the  Jordanian  Village 
Management  Law.  After  1981,  when  the  Israeli  civil  administration 
deposed  nine  West  Bank  mayors,  Israeli  officials  ran  most  munic- 
ipalities. Under  them,  Arabs  held  the  vast  majority  of  government 
administrative  and  staff  positions.  Until  the  latter  part  of  1988, 
when  King  Hussein  cut  off  all  funds  to  the  West  Bank,  Jordan  paid 
the  salaries  of  about  5,000  of  these  civil  servants.  The  remaining 
16,000,  who  were  mostly  teachers,  had  their  Israeli  salaries  sup- 
plemented by  a  Jordanian  bonus  averaging  US$100  monthly. 

Jewish  settlements  in  the  West  Bank  were  incorporated  into  four- 
teen local  authorities.  These  authorities  functioned  under  special 
military  government  legislation  identical  to  the  local  authorities 
legislation  that  applied  in  Israel.  The  Ministry  of  Interior  super- 
vised their  budgets  and  in  general  the  West  Bank  settlements  func- 
tioned as  though  they  were  in  Israel  proper. 

Palestinian  Uprising,  December  1987- 

During  the  first  twenty  years  of  Israeli  occupation,  security  in 
the  territories  fluctuated  between  periods  of  calm  and  periods  of 
unrest.  Discontent  was  chronic,  however,  especially  among  the 
younger  Palestinians  in  refugee  camps.  Nearly  half  the  Arab  popu- 
lation of  the  occupied  territories  lived  in  twenty  camps  in  the  West 
Bank  and  eight  camps  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  in  overcrowded  and  un- 
sanitary conditions.  The  camps  had  existed  since  the  flight  of  Arabs 
displaced  after  the  partition  of  Palestine  in  1948.  Communal  con- 
flict was  liable  to  break  out  at  any  time  between  Palestinians  and 
Israeli  settlers.  Friction  also  arose  from  security  measures  taken 
by  Israeli  authorities  to  counter  perceived  threats  to  order. 

An  upsurge  of  instability  and  violence  in  1987  resulted  partly 
from  deliberate  provocations  by  PLO  factions  and  PLO  dissident 
groups,  but  much  of  it  generated  spontaneously.  Violence  by  Israeli 
settlers  increased,  including  the  initiation  of  unauthorized  armed 
patrols  and  physical  harassment  of  Palestinians.  Although  some 
settlers  were  arrested,  the  Palestinians  asserted  that  the  authori- 
ties were  lenient  with  Israelis  who  violated  security  regulations. 

The  escalating  level  of  Palestinian  unrest  precipitated  a  series 
of  protests  and  violent  demonstrations  that  began  on  December  9, 
1987,  in  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip,  and  later  spread  to 
Arab  communities  in  Jerusalem  and  Israel  itself.  Thousands  of 


303 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


^Cease-fire  tine,  1967 


WEST  BANK 

•  (Israeli  occupied,  status 
to  be  determined) 


i  ,   Ram  Allah 
No  man's  land  1  /  • 

\  J  *.  * 

ISRAEL      J°™*!e"h  \j  . 

The  1 950  Israeli  proclamation  thai  -) 
Jerusalem  be  the  national  capital  /*/  • 
3ffi«!£&&*      r  .  ^thlehem 


•  > 

ti 

•  Jj 

Jericho       •  2 


JORDAN 


Hebron 


/ 

/ 


—  International 
boundary 

 Armistice  line,  1949 


Town 
10    15  Kilometers 


Figure  17.  Israeli  Settlements  in  the  West  Bank,  October  1986 


mostly  teen-aged  Palestinians  banded  together,  setting  up  barri- 
cades in  refugee  camps,  confronting  soldiers  and  Border  Police, 
and  attacking  road  traffic  with  rocks.  Unlike  previous  demonstra- 
tions, the  violence  did  not  appear  to  be  directed  or  coordinated 
by  the  PLO  and  continued  almost  unabated  for  many  months. 
By  October  1988,  more  than  250  Palestinians  had  been  killed 
and  5  Israeli  deaths  had  occurred.  Although  mass  violence  had 


304 


National  Security 


diminished,  many  individual  incidents  of  rock- throwing  and  the 
tossing  of  gasoline  bombs  by  small  roving  bands  continued  to  occur. 
The  army's  retaliation  was  tougher  and  more  rapid,  with  aggres- 
sive use  of  clubs  and  plastic  bullets,  demolition  of  houses,  orchards, 
wells,  and  gardens,  and  economic  sanctions  against  recalcitrant 
villages. 

The  young  IDF  conscripts  called  upon  to  impose  order  at  first 
responded  erratically,  in  some  cases  with  restraint  and  in  other  cases 
with  brutality.  Lacking  proper  equipment  and  training  in  riot 
control,  the  soldiers  often  fired  indiscriminately  at  Arab  protesters, 
causing  many  casualties.  Later,  after  troops  were  ordered  to  use 
batons  and  rifle  butts,  demonstrators  were  often  badly  beaten  both 
before  and  after  arrest,  suffering  fractured  bones.  There  were 
reports  of  soldiers  entering  Arab  houses  to  administer  collective 
punishment  and  beating  and  harassing  doctors  and  nurses  in  hospi- 
tals where  wounded  Arabs  were  being  treated.  Under  mounting 
international  criticism  for  the  harsh  and  undisciplined  behavior  of 
the  IDF,  the  military  authorities  acquired  additional  riot  control 
equipment,  including  rubber  and  plastic  bullets,  tear  gas,  and 
specially-equipped  command  cars.  New  tactics  were  introduced, 
notably  the  deployment  of  large  forces  to  snuff  out  riots  as  soon 
as  they  began.  The  IDF  instituted  a  code  of  conduct  and  a  special 
one- week  training  program  in  internal  security. 

The  uprising  forced  the  IDF  to  cancel  normal  troop  training  and 
exercises.  About  15,000  soldiers — several  times  the  normal  num- 
ber— were  assigned  to  maintain  security  in  the  West  Bank  and  the 
Gaza  Strip.  The  military  authorities  later  replaced  most  of  the  con- 
scripts with  reservists  who  had  demonstrated  greater  restraint  when 
confronted  by  rock- throwing  demonstrators.  Nonetheless,  several 
hundred  reservists,  disagreeing  with  Israeli  policy,  refused  to  serve 
in  the  occupied  territories. 

As  of  mid- 1988,  fifteen  soldiers  had  been  court-martialed  for  some 
of  the  most  serious  offenses,  including  a  widely  publicized  case  in 
which  four  Arab  demonstrators  had  been  severely  beaten  and  then 
buried  under  a  load  of  sand.  Other  soldiers  had  faced  lower-level 
disciplinary  proceedings.  There  was  growing  evidence  that  the 
morale  of  the  IDF  was  eroding  as  a  result  of  the  stress  of  daily  con- 
frontations with  hostile  demonstrators.  Senior  officers  contended 
that  the  riot  control  mission  had  induced  a  crisis  of  confidence  that 
would  affect  the  army's  performance  in  orthodox  conflict.  The 
IDF's  reputation  as  a  humane,  superbly  trained,  and  motivated 
force  had  clearly  been  tarnished. 

IDF  commanders  said  that  they  had  reduced  the  number  of  sol- 
diers assigned  to  riot  control  duty  by  nearly  one-third  since  the 
mass  demonstrations  had  tapered  off  but  feared  that  the  cost  of 


305 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


not  necessarily  authoritative 


Figure  18.  Israeli  Settlements  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  January  1988 

controlling  the  uprising  (estimated  at  US$300  million)  would  neces- 
sitate curtailing  IDF  equipment  purchases.  Although  they  foresaw 
that  the  violence  might  continue  indefinitely,  they  did  not  regard 
it  as  a  serious  threat  in  strategic  terms. 

Armed  Forces  and  Society 
Economic  Impact 

The  burden  of  maintaining  a  large,  modern  national  security 


306 


National  Security 


establishment  has  always  weighed  heavily  on  the  vulnerable  Israeli 
economy.  The  total  defense  budget  for  Israeli  fiscal  year  (FY — see 
Glossary)  1988,  including  United  States  assistance  of  US$1.8  bil- 
lion, amounted  to  US$5.59  billion.  Its  principal  components  were 
local  spending  on  equipment,  supplies,  and  construction  worth 
US$2.05  billion,  personnel  costs  equivalent  to  US$1 .25  billion,  and 
purchases  abroad  of  US$1.87  billion. 

The  defense  budgets  for  FY  1987  and  FY  1986  totaled  US$5.6 
billion  and  US$4.98  billion,  respectively.  The  budget  submission 
to  the  Knesset  indicated  that  the  objective  was  to  maintain  overall 
local  costs — i.e.,  those  items  not  supported  by  United  States 
assistance — at  the  same  level  in  both  FY  1987  and  FY  1988.  Several 
factors  made  it  difficult  to  compare  the  defense  effort  on  a  year-to- 
year  basis.  For  example,  defense  budgets  were  affected  by  the  im- 
mediate costs  and  later  savings  associated  with  cancellation  of  the 
Lavi  fighter  aircraft  project.  The  additional  wages  needed  for  the 
extended  call-up  of  reservists  in  1988  to  help  contain  the  uprising 
in  the  occupied  territories  also  depleted  resources  available  for  nor- 
mal defense  requirements. 

As  the  largest  single  item  in  the  government  budget,  defense 
spending  absorbed  a  major  share  of  the  budgetary  cuts  within  the 
Economic  Stabilization  Program  of  July  1985.  The  cumulative 
reductions  in  domestic  defense  spending  from  FY  1983  through 
FY  1986  were  estimated  at  US$2.5  billion,  representing  a  20  per- 
cent decrease  in  total  domestically  financed  military  expenditures. 
The  defense  burden  as  a  ratio  of  GNP  had  averaged  about  9  per- 
cent until  1966.  Real  defense  expenditures  increased  dramatically 
as  a  result  of  the  June  1967  War  and  the  October  1973  War.  They 
subsequently  remained  steady  at  about  10  to  15  percent  of  GNP, 
excluding  foreign  military  purchases,  and  accounted  for  20  to  25 
percent  of  GNP  when  foreign  military  purchases  (almost  entirely 
funded  by  the  United  States)  were  included. 

The  Israeli  government  estimated  the  defense-related  foreign  ex- 
change burden  at  US$2.1  billion  in  FY  1985  and  predicted  that 
it  would  remain  at  about  that  level  during  the  foreseeable  future. 
This  included  self-financed  military  imports,  indirect  imports  (such 
as  fuel  and  materials  for  the  defense  industry),  and  debt  servicing 
of  defense-related  loans.  The  Ministry  of  Finance  estimated  that 
these  expenditures  contributed  53  percent  of  Israel's  total  deficit 
in  the  balance  of  payments  in  1985.  According  to  the  ministry,  the 
share  of  defense  expenditures  in  the  national  budget,  exclusive  of 
debt  servicing,  was  43  percent  in  FY  1984,  falling  to  39  percent 
in  FY  1985  and  FY  1986  (see  Provision  of  Defense  Services,  ch.  3). 

According  to  an  analysis  by  the  United  States  Arms  Control  and 
Disarmament  Agency,  Israel  ranked  among  the  five  or  six  highest 


307 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

countries  in  the  world  in  terms  of  military  expenditures  as  a  ratio 
of  GNP.  It  ranked  eighth  in  terms  of  military  expenditures  per  cap- 
ita (US$875  in  1985)  and  second  after  Iraq  in  relative  size  of  the 
armed  forces  (47.9  uniformed  personnel  per  1,000  population). 
Israel  ranked  about  twenty-fifth  in  the  world,  below  a  number  of 
Arab  and  communist  countries,  in  terms  of  military  expenditures 
as  a  ratio  of  total  central  government  expenditures,  based  on  1985 
defense  budgets. 

The  economic  burden  of  national  security  was  perhaps  most  ap- 
parent in  terms  of  manpower,  a  vital  resource  in  an  industrialized 
nation  of  only  about  4.4  million  people.  The  proportion  of  soldiers 
to  civilians  at  any  given  time  was  eight  times  higher  than  the  world 
average  and  historically  had  been  far  higher  than  in  any  other  coun- 
try. This  impact  was  magnified  during  mobilization  of  the  reserves, 
which  has  been  increasingly  frequent  since  1973,  when  the  failure 
to  mobilize  promptly  proved  to  be  a  costly  mistake.  A  full  mobili- 
zation of  the  nation's  nearly  500,000  reserves  acted  as  a  sudden 
brake  on  virtually  all  economic  activity.  Even  partial  mobilizations, 
which  regularly  occurred  several  times  annually,  had  a  profound 
impact  on  national  production,  as  did  the  yearly  periods  of  active 
duty  served  by  each  reservist.  Such  economic  disruption  was  a 
principal  reason  why  Israeli  strategists  emphasized  that  wars  must 
be  of  brief  duration  (see  Israeli  Concepts  of  National  Security,  this 
ch.). 

The  IDF  as  a  Socializing  Factor 

The  tradition  of  the  IDF  as  a  social  service  institution  dates  from 
1949,  when  it  played  a  major  role  in  tackling  sudden  and  widespread 
epidemics  in  transit  camps  for  the  flood  of  immigrants  to  the  new 
nation.  In  the  same  year,  Ben-Gurion  envisioned  a  vital  educa- 
tional mission  for  the  military.  The  IDF  has  fulfilled  this  mission 
both  indirectly  and  directly.  The  common  experience  of  conscrip- 
tion for  about  90  percent  of  Jewish  males  and  50  percent  of  Jewish 
females  has  itself  fostered  the  homogenization  of  disparate  elements 
of  Israeli  society.  The  IDF  made  a  concerted  effort  to  integrate 
within  its  various  units  persons  from  different  social  backgrounds. 
Sephardim  and  Ashkenazim,  men  and  women  from  kibbutzim  and 
cities,  and  sabra  and  immigrant  Jewish  youth  often  mixed  for  the 
first  time  in  their  lives  in  the  IDF. 

More  specifically,  the  IDF  administered  an  educational  program 
that  helped  immigrant  Sephardic  youth,  many  of  whom  had  been 
deprived  of  basic  education  as  children,  to  integrate  into  the 
Ashkenazi-dominated  society  of  Israel.  Perhaps  the  most  impor- 
tant educational  function  of  the  IDF  was  the  teaching  of  the  national 


308 


A  street  demonstration  in  the  occupied  territories; 
Palestinians  are  carrying  the  Palestinian  flag,  which  is  forbidden. 

Courtesy  Palestine  Perspectives 

language,  Hebrew.  Young  immigrants  could  defer  their  entry  un- 
til they  had  an  adequate  grasp  of  the  language  and  if  needed  could 
be  assigned  to  a  three-month  intensive  course  in  Hebrew  at  the 
beginning  of  their  service. 

Conscripts  who  had  failed  to  complete  grade  school  attended  a 
special  school  prior  to  discharge  in  order  to  bring  them  to  junior 
high  school  level.  In  1981 ,  60  percent  of  conscripts  had  the  equiva- 
lent of  a  high  school  education.  It  was  estimated  that  by  1990  this 
percentage  would  increase  to  80  percent,  while  those  insufficiently 
educated  for  military  service  would  diminish  to  almost  none.  A 
variety  of  other  educational  opportunities,  including  secondary  and 
vocational  school  courses,  was  available  to  soldiers.  The  IDF  educa- 
tional system  also  extended  to  civilians.  Gadna  and  Nahal  mem- 
bers were  deployed  in  rural  settlements  of  recent  immigrants,  where 
they  taught  material  similar  to  that  taught  immigrant  soldiers  and 
informed  the  new  arrivals  of  state  services  available  to  them  (see 
Nahal;  Gadna,  this  ch.). 

Some  Israeli  sociologists,  however,  have  criticized  the  IDF's  treat- 
ment of  immigrant  Sephardim.  A  1984  study  found  that  new  Orien- 
tal Jewish  immigrants  held  lower  ranks  than  did  sabra  Ashkenazim 
of  similar  qualifications.  Oriental  immigrants  also  tended  to  be  as- 
signed to  the  least  prestigious  IDF  corps.  A  disproportionate  number 


309 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

of  new  immigrants  served  in  peripheral  support  corps,  such  as  the 
Civil  Defense  Corps,  the  Guard  Corps,  and  the  General  Service 
Corps.  Oriental  immigrants  were  underrepresented  in  the  air  force 
and  in  glamorous  elite  units,  and  those  who  served  in  combat  in- 
stead of  support  corps  were  overrepresented  in  the  Artillery  Corps 
and  the  Combat  Engineering  Corps,  where  they  were  relegated 
to  the  most  dangerous  and  physically  laborious  positions.  These 
newer  immigrants  also  were  more  liable  to  serve  in  units  posted 
far  from  their  homes  and  to  be  taught  skills  that  could  not  be  trans- 
ferred to  the  civilian  job  market.  The  study  concluded,  however, 
that  this  situation  was  caused  not  by  prejudice  in  the  IDF  but.  on 
the  contrary,  by  regulations  permitting  a  shorter  period  of  service 
for  those  who  were  beyond  the  regular  recruitment  age  of  eigh- 
teen or  who  were  married  and  had  children.  The  majority  of  newer 
immigrants  served  less  than  one-third  the  time  that  nonimmigrants 
did,  and  most  remained  at  the  rank  of  private.  The  brief  service 
experience  limited  their  absorption  into  military  life  and  mobility 
within  the  defense  organization.  Their  immigrant  status  and  their 
adjustment  to  Israeli  society  were  thus  prolonged  and  the  likeli- 
hood of  improving  their  status  later  as  civilians  was  reduced. 

A  newer  aspect  of  the  social  impact  of  the  IDF  was  its  role  in 
the  socialization  of  delinquent  and  formerly  delinquent  youth.  In 
the  early  1970s,  the  IDF  reversed  its  previous  policy  and  began 
conscripting  all  but  the  most  serious  offenders  among  delinquent 
youth  in  an  attempt  both  to  increase  its  manpower  pool  and  to  pro- 
vide remedial  socialization  in  the  context  of  military  discipline.  By 
1978  it  was  clear  that  the  policy  was  only  partially  successful.  Ap- 
proximately half  the  youths  (generally  the  less  serious  offenders) 
released  from  detention  to  join  the  IDF  had  adjusted  successfully; 
the  other  half  had  been  less  successful.  Many  returned  to  criminal 
activity  and  contributed  to  growing  disciplinary  problems  within 
the  IDF  that  included  rising  drug  use  among  soldiers  and  thefts 
and  violent  crimes  within  IDF  units.  Others  could  not  adjust  to 
army  life  and  simply  left  or  were  expelled  from  the  IDF.  Despite 
the  problems  associated  with  the  new  policy,  IDF  officials  were 
proud  of  their  role  in  youth  rehabilitation  and  felt  that  the  oppor- 
tunity afforded  delinquent  youth  to  be  reintegrated  into  society  out- 
weighed the  associated  disciplinary  problems. 

The  Military  in  Political  Life 

The  Jewish  military  organizations  of  Palestine  before  Israeli 
independence  were  Fiercely  political.  The  Haganah  and  Palmach 
were  closely  associated  with  socialist-labor  Mapai  (see  Appendix 
B)  and  the  kibbutz  programs,  whereas  the  Irgun  was  intimately 


310 


National  Security 


connected  with  the  right-wing  Revisionist  Zionism  of  Vladimir 
Jabotinsky  and  his  disciple,  Begin  (see  Revisionist  Zionism,  ch.  1). 
As  the  chief  architect  of  the  IDF,  Ben-Gurion  was  determined  to 
eliminate  all  political  overtones  from  Israel's  unified,  national  army 
and  to  establish  clear  civilian  supremacy  over  the  military.  He  was 
extraordinarily  successful  in  his  efforts  in  that  during  the  first  forty 
years  of  its  history  the  IDF  never  overtly  challenged  the  authority 
of  the  civilian  government.  This  did  not  mean,  however,  that  the 
IDF  was  a  nonpolitical  institution.  On  the  contrary,  in  the  late  1980s 
the  political  impact  of  the  armed  forces  remained  pervasive  and 
profound.  IDF  officers  influenced  government  foreign  affairs  and 
national  security  policy  through  official  and  unofficial  channels. 
Under  Ben-Gurion 's  successor,  Levi  Eshkol,  the  political  system 
was  opened  to  permit  greater  interaction  between  the  civilian  leader- 
ship and  the  military  high  command.  The  shift  permitted  the  chief 
of  staff  to  advance  the  views  of  the  IDF  directly  to  the  cabinet  and 
Knesset  committees.  The  growing  number  of  former  officers  in  po- 
litical life  also  helped  to  legitimate  the  involvement  of  the  military 
in  strategic  policy  debates. 

Under  Israeli  law,  the  cabinet,  which  could  be  convened  as  the 
Ministerial  Committee  for  Security  Affairs  in  order  to  enforce  the 
secrecy  of  its  proceedings,  set  policy  relating  to  national  security. 
The  Foreign  Affairs  and  Security  Committee  of  the  Knesset  ap- 
proved national  security  policy.  The  minister  of  defense  often  was 
the  principal  policy  formulator  (although  this  depended  on  his  per- 
sonality and  the  personalities  of  the  prime  minister  and  the  chief 
of  staff)  and  could  make  decisions  without  consulting  fellow  cabi- 
net members  if  an  urgent  need  arose.  During  the  first  twenty  years 
of  Israel's  existence,  membership  in  the  ruling  Labor  Party  often 
was  a  prerequisite  for  appointment  to  a  high  level  staff  position. 
Political  qualifications  for  top  assignments  gradually  declined  in 
importance  during  the  1970s,  although  the  chief  of  staff's  percep- 
tions of  Israel's  security  were  necessarily  consonant  with  the  aims 
of  the  government. 

When  Prime  Minister  Begin  served  as  his  own  minister  of  defense 
from  1980  to  1981,  his  chief  of  staff,  Lieutenant  General  Rafael 
Eitan,  could  assert  the  IDF  position  not  only  on  defense  matters 
but  also  on  foreign  policy  and  economic  questions.  When  Sharon— a 
retired  major  general  highly  respected  within  the  officer  corps — 
became  defense  minister  in  1981,  the  focus  of  decision  making  in 
both  defense  and  foreign  policy  shifted  to  him.  The  minister  of 
defense  after  1984,  Rabin,  also  was  a  retired  officer.  Under  him, 
the  balance  of  authority  continued  to  rest  with  the  Ministry  of 
Defense  as  opposed  to  the  military  establishment;  however,  Rabin 


311 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

did  not  exercise  the  monopoly  of  control  that  had  existed  under 
Sharon. 

Although  considered  primarily  the  implementer  of  policy,  the 
IDF  influenced  many  sectors  of  society.  It  had  a  major  voice  in 
strategic  planning,  in  such  social  matters  as  education  and  the  inte- 
gration of  immigrants,  and  in  the  government's  role  in  the  occupied 
territories.  Moreover,  the  enormous  impact  of  the  defense  estab- 
lishment on  the  economy  made  its  claims  on  the  nation's  resources 
of  major  political  significance. 

The  high  command  had  ample  opportunity  to  convey  its  views 
to  the  civilian  leadership.  The  chief  of  staff  and  the  chief  of  mili- 
tary intelligence  met  regularly  with  the  Committee  on  Foreign  Af- 
fairs and  Security  and  the  Finance  Committee  of  the  Knesset.  The 
chief  of  staff  participated  regularly  in  cabinet  meetings  and  gave 
opinions  on  government  security  policy.  The  setbacks  at  the  out- 
set of  the  October  1973  War  gave  rise  to  an  exceptional  period  when 
senior  officers  influenced  political  decisions  through  their  contacts 
with  members  of  the  cabinet  and  the  Knesset.  The  situation  was 
complicated  by  the  involvement  of  former  senior  officers  who  had 
entered  political  life  and  who  served  as  reserve  officers  in  the  war. 
A  committee  created  to  investigate  the  errors  committed  during 
the  first  days  of  the  war  led  to  the  enactment  in  1976  of  the  new 
Basic  Law:  the  Army  governing  the  IDF.  The  government  ex- 
pended much  effort  to  redefine  the  roles  of  the  prime  minister, 
minister  of  defense,  and  chief  of  staff.  The  new  legal  requirements, 
however,  proved  less  important  than  the  personalities  of  the  in- 
dividuals holding  those  positions  at  any  given  time. 

Private  consultations  with  the  high  command  were  viewed  as 
essential  in  light  of  the  cabinet's  need  to  be  informed  on  security 
issues.  Public  statements  of  opinion  concerning  Israel's  defense  pol- 
icy (such  as  when  and  where  to  go  to  war,  or  when,  how,  or  with 
whom  to  make  peace)  were  generally  considered  to  be  in  the  realm 
of  politics  and  improper  for  active-duty  personnel.  It  became  clear 
that  many  senior  officers  had  moral  and  political  reservations  over 
the  scope  and  tactics  employed  in  the  1982  invasion  of  Lebanon, 
but  their  dissent  did  not  escalate  into  open  protest.  One  exception 
was  the  highly  controversial  case  of  Colonel  Eli  Geva,  who  asked 
to  be  relieved  of  his  command  when  his  brigade  was  given  the  mis- 
sion of  leading  the  army's  entry  into  Beirut,  an  act  that  was  bound 
to  cause  many  civilian  casualties.  Many  officers  regarded  Geva's 
conduct  as  outright  insubordination.  Others  agreed  that  it  was 
proper  for  him  to  decline  the  performance  of  his  military  obliga- 
tions when  they  conflicted  with  his  conscience.  In  spite  of  his 


312 


National  Security 


outstanding  record  as  a  combat  leader,  Geva  was  released  from 
further  service. 

Members  of  the  IDF  could  vote  and  engage  in  normal  political 
activity,  albeit  with  certain  restraints.  They  could  join  political  par- 
ties or  politically  oriented  groups  and  attend  meetings,  but  they 
were  barred  from  taking  an  active  role  as  spokespersons  either  for 
the  IDF  or  for  a  political  group.  Analysts  found  littie  difference 
between  the  political  orientation  of  military  personnel  and  of 
civilians.  Retired  officers  entering  politics  were  not  concentrated 
in  a  particular  part  of  the  political  spectrum.  Few  officers  were  as- 
sociated with  the  small  minority  of  groups  upholding  autocratic 
political  values.  Most  appeared  to  accept  unreservedly  the  prevailing 
democratic  political  culture.  Compared  with  most  countries,  Israel 
had  far  less  separatism,  distinction  between  life  styles,  or  social  dis- 
tance between  civilians  and  the  officer  corps. 

The  vast  majority  of  the  citizenry  did  not  regard  the  practice 
of  retired  officers  "parachuting  into  politics"  as  threatening  to 
civilian  control  of  the  military.  No  ex-IDF  officer  had  assumed  a 
cabinet  position  until  1955,  and  not  until  after  the  June  1967  War 
did  it  become  a  common  practice.  Israeli  law  prohibited  retired 
officers  from  running  for  the  Knesset  until  100  days  after  their  retire- 
ment, but  no  such  law  existed  regarding  cabinet  positions. 

Retired  officers  pursuing  political  careers  were  likely  to  be  called 
back  to  active  duty  because  retired  officers  remained  reserve  officers 
until  age  fifty-five.  The  problems  that  eventually  could  arise  be- 
came apparent  in  1973,  when  Major  General  Sharon  retired  in 
July  to  join  the  opposition  Likud  Party  only  to  be  recalled  to  ac- 
tive duty  during  the  October  1973  War.  Sharon  was  highly  criti- 
cal of  the  conduct  of  the  war,  becoming  the  most  vocal  participant 
in  the  so-called  War  of  the  Generals,  in  which  a  number  of  active, 
retired,  and  reserve  general  officers  engaged  in  a  public  debate  over 
the  management  of  the  war  for  several  months  during  and  after 
the  hostilities.  Sharon  was  elected  to  the  Knesset  in  the  December 
1973  elections.  Once  there,  he  continued  to  criticize  government 
policy  while  he  remained  a  senior  reserve  officer.  As  a  result  of 
this  situation,  the  government  barred  Knesset  members  from  hold- 
ing senior  reserve  appointments. 

Despite  the  prominence  and  visibility  of  former  military  officers 
at  the  highest  level  of  government,  former  officers  have  not  formed 
a  cohesive  and  ideologically  united  group.  Although  two  of  the  most 
prominent  military  figures  of  the  period,  Sharon  and  Eitan  (chief 
of  staff  from  1978  to  83)  were  regarded  as  right  wing  on  Arab- 
Israeli  issues,  many  more  senior  officers  were  moderates,  less 


313 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

persuaded  than  the  Likud  government  or  the  public  that  military 
force  was  the  answer. 

There  has  been  little  evidence  of  an  identifiable  military  or  officer 
caste  dedicated  to  protecting  the  army's  own  interests.  Militarism 
was  deeply  antithetical  to  the  democratic,  civilian-oriented  concept 
of  Israeli  society  held  by  the  vast  majority  of  Israelis.  Society  has, 
however,  held  prominent  military  personalities  in  high  esteem  and 
treated  them  as  national  heroes.  This  was  particularly  true  after 
the  stunning  victory  of  the  June  1967  War.  After  the  near  disaster 
in  1973  and  the  controversies  surrounding  operations  in  Lebanon 
in  1982,  however,  the  prestige  of  the  professional  military  suffered. 
The  Lebanon  experience  raised  in  its  most  acute  form  the  ques- 
tion of  how  effectively  the  civilian  government  could  control  the 
military  establishment.  IDF  operations  ordered  by  Sharon  and  Eitan 
often  had  been  contrary  to  the  government's  decisions  and  the  cabi- 
net had  been  kept  ignorant  of  the  military  situation.  The  cabinet's 
inability  to  oppose  effectively  Sharon  and  Eitan  was  made  possi- 
ble by  the  passive  attitude  of  Prime  Minister  Begin,  the  relative 
lack  of  operational  military  experience  among  other  cabinet 
ministers,  and  the  deliberate  manipulation  of  reports  on  the  fight- 
ing. For  a  time,  the  checks  and  balances  that  had  previously  pre- 
vented the  defense  establishment  from  dominating  the  civilian 
decision-making  authority  seemed  in  jeopardy.  Political  protest 
arose  in  the  government,  among  the  public,  in  the  news  media, 
and  even  in  sectors  of  the  army  that  forced  a  reassessment  of  the 
actions  of  the  military  leadership.  Although  no  structural  changes 
were  introduced,  Sharon  was  removed  from  the  Ministry  of  Defense 
and  a  more  normal  pattern  of  military-civilian  relations  was  re- 
stored. In  1988,  Chief  of  Staff  Shomron,  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff 
Major  General  Ehud  Barak,  and  West  Bank  Commander  Major 
General  Amran  Mitzna,  all  were  perceived  to  be  political  liberals. 
They  were,  however,  careful  not  to  draw  attention  in  public  to  pos- 
sible differences  with  the  government  over  its  handling  of  the  up- 
rising in  the  occupied  territories. 

Defense  Production  and  Sales 

The  manufacture  of  small  weapons  and  explosives  for  the  fore- 
runners of  the  IDF  had  begun  in  secret  arms  factories  during  the 
1930s.  The  War  of  Independence  was  fought  with  Sten  guns, 
grenades,  light  mortars,  antitank  guns,  flamethrowers,  and  light 
ammunition,  much  of  it  produced  in  Israel  with  surplus  United 
States  machinery  acquired  as  scrap  after  World  War  II.  After  in- 
dependence and  the  departure  of  the  British,  massive  imports  of 
wartime  surplus  aircraft,  tanks,  and  artillery  were  possible.  The 


314 


National  Security 


Israeli  arms  industry  made  a  specialty  of  upgrading  and  overhaul- 
ing such  equipment.  The  Israeli-designed  Uzi  submachine  gun, 
adopted  by  the  security  forces  of  many  nations,  was  a  major  ex- 
port success,  providing  needed  revenue  for  the  arms  industry.  The 
Czechoslovak  arms  agreement  with  Egypt  in  1955  and  the  1956 
War  gave  further  impetus  to  weapons  production.  The  decision 
to  become  a  major  producer  of  armaments  was  inspired  by  the  arms 
embargo  imposed  by  France — then  Israel's  main  supplier  of 
arms — just  before  the  outbreak  of  the  June  1967  War.  By  the  mid- 
to  late  1970s,  indigenous  suppliers  were  delivering  an  increasing 
share  of  the  IDF's  major  weapons  systems.  These  systems  included 
the  Reshef  missile  boat,  the  Kfir  fighter  plane,  the  Gabriel  mis- 
sile, and  the  Merkava  tank.  The  Kfir,  based  on  plans  of  the  French 
Mirage  III  acquired  clandestinely  through  a  Swiss  source,  was 
powered  with  a  United  States  General  Electric  J 79  engine,  but  em- 
bodied Israeli-designed  and  Israeli-produced  components  for  the 
flight  control  and  weapons  delivery  systems. 

Domestic  production  reduced  foreign  exchange  costs  for  imports, 
provided  a  degree  of  self-sufficiency  against  the  risk  of  arms  em- 
bargoes, and  facilitated  the  adaptation  of  foreign  equipment  designs 
to  meet  Israeli  requirements.  A  high  concentration  of  well-qualified 
scientists,  engineers,  and  technicians,  a  growing  industrial  base, 
and  a  flow  of  government  resources  toward  military  research  and 
development  facilitated  the  rapid  expansion  of  locally  produced  mili- 
tary equipment.  Officials  asserted  that  spinoffs  from  the  arms  in- 
dustry, especially  in  electronics,  had  stimulated  the  civilian  high 
technology  sector,  thus  contributing  indirectly  to  export  earnings. 
This  claim  has  been  disputed  by  Israeli  economists  who  concluded 
that  the  US$700  million  spent  annually  on  military  research  and 
development  would  have  produced  five  times  the  value  in  export 
earnings  had  it  been  spent  direcdy  on  civilian  research  and  develop- 
ment. Even  among  government  leaders,  there  was  growing  reali- 
zation that  the  defense  industry  had  become  too  large  and  that  the 
government  should  not  be  obliged  to  come  to  the  rescue  of  large 
defense  firms  in  financial  difficulty. 

Defense  Industries 

Israel's  more  than  150  defense  and  defense-related  firms  (thou- 
sands of  other  firms  were  engaged  in  subcontracting)  fell  into  one 
of  three  ownership  categories:  state-owned  enterprises,  privately 
owned  firms,  and  firms  with  mixed  state  and  private  ownership. 
One  firm,  Armament  Development  Authority,  commonly  known 
as  Rafael,  was  the  main  military  research  and  development  agency 
responsible  for  translating  the  ordnance  requirements  of  IDF  field 


315 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

units  into  development  projects.  Rafael  had  a  unique  status  under 
the  direct  supervision  of  the  Ministry  of  Defense. 

Total  employment  in  the  defense  sector  reached  a  peak  of  65,000 
persons  in  the  mid-1980s,  more  than  20  percent  of  the  industrial 
work  force.  By  1988,  however,  retrenchment  of  the  defense  budget 
and  shrinkage  of  the  world  arms  market  had  exposed  the  defense 
industry  to  severe  financial  losses  and  layoffs  that  reduced  the  work 
force  to  about  50,000  employees. 

The  largest  of  the  defense  firms  was  the  government-owned  con- 
glomerate, Israel  Aircraft  Industries  (IAI)  that  manufactured  the 
Kfir  and  Arava  aircraft,  the  Ramta  light  armored  car,  Gabriel  anti- 
ship  missiles,  and  high-speed  patrol  boats.  IAI  began  in  1933  as 
a  small  machine  shop,  later  catering  to  the  maintenance  and  up- 
grading of  the  motley  collection  of  aircraft  acquired  during  the  War 
of  Independence.  It  continued  to  specialize  in  the  overhaul  and 
retrofitting  of  the  whole  range  of  aircraft  in  the  air  force  inven- 
tory. Until  the  cancellation  of  the  Lavi  project  in  1987,  IAI  had 
been  entrusted  with  the  development  of  the  advanced  fighter 
aircraft. 

The  factories  of  Israel  Military  Industries  (IMI),  another 
government-owned  conglomerate,  produced  the  Uzi  submachine- 
gun,  the  Galil  rifle,  explosives,  propellants,  artillery  shells,  and  light 
ammunition.  IMI  also  specialized  in  the  upgrading  and  conver- 
sion of  tanks  and  other  armored  vehicles.  Tadiran  Electronic  In- 
dustries was  the  largest  private  firm  engaged  in  defense  production, 
notably  communications,  electronic  warfare,  and  command  and 
control  systems,  as  well  as  the  pilotless  reconnaissance  aircraft  of 
which  Israel  had  become  a  leading  manufacturer.  Soltam,  another 
private  firm,  specialized  in  mortars  and  artillery  munitions. 

Growth  of  the  defense  industry  was  achieved  by  a  mixture  of 
imported  technology  and  Israeli  innovation.  Israeli  firms  purchased 
production  rights  and  entered  into  joint  ventures  with  foreign  com- 
panies to  manufacture  both  end  products  and  components.  Nearly 
every  electronics  firm  had  links  of  some  sort  with  United  States 
producers.  Purchase  agreements  for  foreign  military  equipment  fre- 
quently specified  that  production  data  and  design  information, 
together  with  coproduction  rights,  be  accorded  to  Israel.  Neverthe- 
less, American  firms  often  were  reluctant  to  supply  advanced  tech- 
nology because  of  fears  that  Israel  would  adapt  the  technology  for 
use  in  items  to  be  exported  to  third  countries  on  an  unrestricted 
basis.  Some  American  firms  also  feared  that  collaboration  would 
encourage  Israeli  competition  in  already  saturated  world  mar- 
kets. 


316 


National  Security 


Nuclear  Weapons  Potential 

Israel  had  been  involved  in  nuclear  research  since  the  country's 
inception.  With  French  assistance  that  began  about  1957,  Israel 
constructed  a  natural  uranium  research  reactor  that  went  into  oper- 
ation at  Dimona,  in  the  Negev  Desert  in  1964.  Dimona's  opera- 
tions were  conducted  in  secret,  and  it  was  not  brought  under 
international  inspection.  According  to  a  1982  UN  study,  Israel  could 
have  produced  enough  weapons-grade  plutonium  at  Dimona  for 
a  number  of  explosive  devices.  Under  an  agreement  with  the  United 
States  in  1955,  a  research  reactor  also  was  established  at  Nahal 
Soreq,  west  of  Beersheba.  This  reactor  was  placed  under  United 
States  and  subsequently  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA)  inspection.  The  Nahal  Soreq  facility  was  not  suspected  of 
involvement  in  a  weapons  program. 

American  and  other  Western  specialists  considered  it  possible 
that  Israel  had  developed  a  nuclear  weapons  capability  incorporating 
enriched  uranium  as  an  alternative  to  plutonium.  The  United  States 
suspected  that  up  to  100  kilograms  of  enriched  uranium  missing 
from  a  facility  at  Apollo,  Pennsylvania,  had  been  taken  in  a  con- 
spiracy between  the  plant's  managers  and  the  Israeli  government. 
In  1968,  200  tons  of  ore  that  disappeared  from  a  ship  in  the  Mediter- 
ranean probably  were  also  diverted  to  Israel.  Foreign  experts  found 
indications  that  Israel  was  pursuing  research  in  a  laser  enrichment 
process  although  no  firm  evidence  had  been  adduced  that  Israel 
had  achieved  a  capability  to  enrich  uranium.  In  a  1974  analysis, 
the  United  States  Central  Intelligence  Agency  (CIA)  expressed  the 
belief  that  Israel  had  already  produced  nuclear  weapons.  Among 
the  factors  leading  to  this  conclusion  were  the  two  incidents  of  dis- 
appearance of  enriched  uranium  and  Israel's  costly  investment  in 
the  Jericho  missile  system. 

Officially,  Israel  neither  acknowledged  nor  denied  that  nuclear 
weapons  were  being  produced.  The  government  held  to  the  un- 
varying formulation  that  "Israel  will  not  be  the  first  to  introduce 
nuclear  weapons  into  the  Middle  East."  As  of  1988,  Israel  had 
not  acceded  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (1968).  It  was,  however,  a  party  to  the  Treaty  Banning 
Nuclear  Weapons  Tests  in  the  Atmosphere,  in  Outer  Space,  and 
Under  Water  (1963).  There  was  no  evidence  that  Israel  had  ever 
carried  out  a  nuclear  test,  although  some  observers  speculated  that 
a  suspected  nuclear  explosion  in  the  southern  Indian  Ocean  in  1979 
was  a  joint  South  African-Israeli  test. 

In  1986  descriptions  and  photographs  were  published  in  the 
London  Sunday  Times  of  a  purported  underground  bomb  factory. 


317 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

The  photographs  were  taken  by  a  dismissed  Israeli  nuclear  tech- 
nician, Mordechai  Vanunu.  His  information  led  experts  to  con- 
clude that  Israel  had  a  stockpile  of  100  to  200  nuclear  devices,  a 
far  greater  nuclear  capability  than  had  been  previously  estimated. 

A  nuclear  attack  directed  against  targets  almost  anywhere  in  the 
Middle  East  would  be  well  within  Israel's  capacities.  Fighter- 
bombers  of  the  Israeli  air  force  could  be  adapted  to  carry  nuclear 
bombs  with  little  difficulty.  The  Jericho  missile,  developed  in  the 
late  1960s,  was  believed  to  have  achieved  a  range  of  450  kilometers. 
An  advanced  version,  the  Jericho  II,  with  a  range  of  nearly  1,500 
kilometers,  was  reported  to  have  been  test-flown  in  1987. 

Foreign  Military  Sales  and  Assistance 

By  the  late  1980s,  Israel  had  become  one  of  the  world's  leading 
suppliers  of  arms  and  security  services,  producing  foreign  exchange 
earnings  estimated  at  US$1.5  billion  annually,  which  represented 
one-third  of  the  country's  industrial  exports.  Because  the  defense 
industry  was  not  subsidized  by  the  government,  it  was  indispens- 
able for  major  arms  manufacturers  to  develop  export  markets,  which 
accounted  in  some  cases  for  as  much  as  65  percent  of  total  output. 
Foreign  military  sales  at  first  consisted  primarily  of  the  transfer 
of  surplus  and  rehabilitated  equipment  stocks  and  the  administra- 
tion of  training  and  advisory  missions.  Particularly  after  the  Oc- 
tober 1973  War,  however,  foreign  sales  of  surplus  IDF  stocks  and 
weapons  systems  from  newly  developed  production  lines  increased 
dramatically.  Rehabilitated  tanks  and  other  Soviet  equipment  cap- 
tured from  Egypt  and  Syria  were  among  the  products  marketed 
abroad.  In  addition  to  its  economic  and  trade  value,  the  expan- 
sion of  the  arms  industry  assured  Israel  of  the  availability  of  a  higher 
production  capacity  to  supply  the  IDF  at  wartime  levels.  It  also 
provided  Israel  with  opportunities  to  develop  common  interests  with 
countries  with  which  it  did  not  maintain  diplomatic  relations  and 
to  cultivate  politically  useful  contacts  with  foreign  military  leaders. 

Initially,  most  of  Israel's  arms  sales  were  to  Third  World  coun- 
tries, but,  owing  to  financial  difficulties  faced  by  these  clients  and 
to  competition  from  new  Third  World  arms  producers  such  as  Brazil 
and  Taiwan,  different  sales  strategies  had  to  be  adopted.  In  part 
through  joint  ventures  and  coproduction,  Israel  succeeded  in  break- 
ing into  the  more  lucrative  American  and  West  European  mar- 
kets. By  the  early  1980s,  more  than  fifty  countries  on  five  continents 
had  become  customers  for  Israeli  military  equipment.  Among 
Israel's  clients  were  communist  states  (China  and  Romania),  Mus- 
lim states  (Morocco,  Turkey,  Indonesia,  and  Malaysia),  and  so- 
called  pariah  states  (South  Africa  and  Iran).  To  some  degree,  Israel 


318 


National  Security 


was  restricted  in  its  marketing  by  United  States  controls  over  arms 
transactions  involving  the  transfer  of  components  or  technology 
of  United  States  origin.  In  one  well-publicized  case,  the  United 
States  vetoed  the  sale  of  twelve  Kfir  fighters  to  Uruguay  in  1978. 
Intimidation  of  potential  buyers  by  Arab  states  also  presented  a 
problem.  Observers  believed  that  Arab  pressure  played  a  part  in 
decisions  by  Austria  and  Taiwan  not  to  purchase  the  Kfir  and  in 
Brazil's  decision  not  to  choose  the  Gabriel  missile  for  its  navy. 

The  broader  issues  of  Israel's  foreign  military  sales  program  were 
decided  by  a  cabinet  committee  on  weapons  transfers.  Routine  ap- 
plications to  sell  arms  to  countries  approved  by  this  committee  were 
reviewed  by  the  Defense  Sales  Office  of  the  Ministry  of  Defense. 
The  primary  concerns  were  that  arms  supplied  by  Israel  not  fall 
into  the  hands  of  its  enemies  and  that  secret  design  innovations 
not  be  compromised.  After  1982,  however,  security  restrictions  were 
relaxed  to  permit  export  of  high  technology  weapons  and  electronics. 

South  Africa  was  believed  to  be  one  of  Israel's  principal  trade 
partners  in  spite  of  the  mandatory  UN  resolution  of  1977  against 
arms  shipments  to  the  Pretoria  government.  South  Africa  was 
known  to  have  acquired  6  Reshef  missile  boats,  more  than  100 
Gabriel  missiles,  and  radar  and  communications  systems,  and  to 
have  obtained  Israel's  assistance  in  upgrading  its  British-built  Cen- 
turion tanks.  The  South  African-manufactured  Cheetah  fighter  air- 
plane unveiled  in  1986  was  a  copy  of  the  Kfir  C-2  produced  in 
collaboration  with  IAI.  Subsequent  to  the  passage  of  the  Compre- 
hensive Anti- Apartheid  Act  of  1986  in  the  United  States,  which 
mandated  a  cut-off  of  military  aid  to  countries  selling  arms  to  South 
Africa,  Israel  announced  that  it  would  not  enter  into  any  new  arms 
contracts  with  Pretoria.  Existing  contracts,  however,  which  would 
not  be  canceled,  were  reported  to  be  valued  at  between  US$400 
and  US$800  million. 

Military  cooperation  between  Israel  and  Iran  had  been  exten- 
sive since  the  1960s,  under  the  shah's  regime.  After  a  brief  rup- 
ture of  relations  when  Ayatollah  Sayyid  Ruhollah  Musavi  Khomeini 
came  to  power  in  1979,  cooperation  resumed.  The  Israeli  minister 
of  defense  in  1982  acknowledged  the  negotiation  of  an  arrange- 
ment worth  US$28  million,  including  spare  parts  for  United  States- 
manufactured  airplanes  and  tanks  in  the  early  1980s.  The  Israeli 
motivating  factor  was  the  belief  that  it  was  to  Israel's  strategic  ad- 
vantage to  help  Iran  in  its  war  against  Iraq,  an  Arab  state  bitterly 
hostile  to  Israel.  Although  Israel  announced  an  embargo  of  arms 
transactions  after  disclosure  of  its  involvement  in  the  plan  to  trade 
arms  for  the  release  of  United  States  hostages  in  Lebanon,  a 
stricter  directive  had  to  be  issued  in  November  1987,  following 


319 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

reports  that  weapons  of  Israeli  origin  continued  to  reach  the 
Iranians. 

Prior  to  the  mass  severance  of  diplomatic  relations  with  Israel 
after  the  October  1973  War,  Israel  had  actively  promoted  military 
collaboration  with  a  number  of  African  countries  .  Training  or  ad- 
visory missions  had  been  established  in  at  least  ten  African  states. 
During  the  1980s,  Israel  quietly  resumed  these  activities  in  sev- 
eral places,  most  notably  Zaire.  Israel  dispatched  teams  there  to 
train  elite  units  and  to  help  reorganize  and  rearm  a  division 
deployed  in  Shaba  Region.  Israel  also  equipped  and  trained  Came- 
roon's presidential  guard  unit.  Limited  pilot  training  programs  were 
extended  to  Liberia  and  to  Ciskei,  a  South  African  homeland  (see 
Relations  with  African  States,  ch.  4). 

Military  Cooperation  with  the  United  States 

The  military  partnership  between  the  United  States  and  Israel 
was  by  1988  a  flourishing  relationship  that  encompassed  not  only 
military  assistance  but  also  intelligence  sharing,  joint  weapons 
research,  and  purchases  of  Israeli  equipment  by  the  United  States 
armed  forces.  During  the  early  years  of  Israeli  independence,  the 
United  States  had  been  reluctant  to  become  a  major  source  of  arms, 
a  position  dictated  by  the  view  that  the  United  States  could  best 
contribute  to  resolving  the  Arab-Israeli  dispute  by  avoiding  iden- 
tification with  either  party  to  the  conflict.  The  United  States  con- 
tinued to  deal  with  Israeli  arms  requests  on  a  case-by-case  basis 
until  the  October  1973  War,  when  it  became  virtually  the  sole  out- 
side source  of  sophisticated  weaponry.  The  high  level  of  United 
States  aid  was  intended  to  insure  that  Israel  maintained  the  capa- 
bility to  defend  itself  against  any  potential  combination  of  aggres- 
sors and  to  give  Israel  the  confidence  to  enter  into  negotiations  with 
its  Arab  neighbors. 

Israel  had  great  difficulty  in  obtaining  the  modern  arms  it  needed 
until  the  mid-1950s,  when  France  became  its  main  supplier.  Even 
after  the  announcement  of  a  major  arms  agreement  between  Egypt 
and  Czechoslovakia  in  1955,  the  United  States  was  unmoved  by 
the  argument  that  this  development  justified  deliveries  to  Israel  to 
maintain  a  balance  of  forces  in  the  Middle  East.  It  did,  however, 
relax  its  stance  by  authorizing  the  transfer  to  Israel  of  Mystere  IV 
fighter  planes  manufactured  in  France  with  United  States  assistance 
and  F-86  Sabre  jets  manufactured  in  Canada  under  United  States 
license.  In  1958  the  United  States  consented  to  a  modest  sale  of 
100  recoilless  rifles  to  help  Israel  defend  itself  from  neighbors  receiv- 
ing shipments  of  both  Soviet-  and  Western-made  tanks. 


320 


National  Security 


Sales  of  Hawk  antiaircraft  missiles  in  1962  and  M-48  Patton 
tanks  in  1966  represented  a  shift  in  policy,  but  were  justified  as 
"occasional,  selective  sales"  to  balance  the  large  shipments  of 
sophisticated  Soviet  arms  to  Egypt,  Syria,  and  Iraq.  A  more  deci- 
sive turn  in  United  States  policy  occurred  in  1968  when,  follow- 
ing the  failure  of  efforts  to  reach  an  understanding  with  the  Soviet 
Union  on  limiting  the  supply  of  arms  to  the  Middle  East  and  the 
imposition  of  a  complete  embargo  by  France  on  arms  sales  to  Israel, 
Washington  approved  the  sale  of  fifty  F-4  Phantom  jets. 

By  the  early  1970s,  the  flow  of  United  States  military  supplies 
to  Israel  had  acquired  considerable  momentum,  although  it  was 
not  always  considered  sufficient  by  Israeli  leaders  concerned  with 
Egypt's  aggressive  actions  along  the  Suez  Canal.  In  1972  and  1973, 
the  Israeli  air  force  was  bolstered  by  additional  deliveries  of  F-4 
aircraft  as  well  as  A-4  Skyhawks.  After  the  outbreak  of  the  Octo- 
ber 1973  War,  President  Richard  M.  Nixon  ordered  the  airlift  of 
urgently  needed  military  supplies  to  Israel.  President  Nixon  fol- 
lowed this  action  by  seeking  from  Congress  US$2.2  billion  in  emer- 
gency security  assistance  including,  for  the  first  time,  direct  aid 
grants.  By  1975  a  steady  flow  of  aircraft,  Hawk  missiles,  self- 
propelled  artillery,  M-48  and  M-60  tanks,  armored  personnel  car- 
riers, helicopters,  and  antitank  missiles  enabled  Israel  to  recover 
from  the  heavy  equipment  losses  suffered  during  the  war.  For  the 
first  time,  the  United  States  government  approved  the  sale  to  Israel 
of  more  advanced  F-15  and  F-16  interceptor  aircraft. 

In  conjunction  with  the  IDF  redeployment  following  the 
Egyptian-Israeli  peace  treaty  of  1979,  the  United  States  provided 
US$3.2  billion  in  special  aid.  More  than  one-third  of  this  amount 
was  used  to  finance  the  construction  of  two  airbases  in  the  Negev, 
replacing  three  bases  evacuated  in  the  Sinai.  Egypt  also  benefited 
from  a  vastly  increased  level  of  aid;  but  Israel  sharply  disputed 
Washington's  later  package  proposal  to  sell  US$4.8  billion  worth 
of  aircraft  to  Israel,  Egypt,  and  Saudi  Arabia.  Israel's  objections 
to  the  delivery  of  sophisticated  fighter  aircraft  to  Saudi  Arabia  grew 
stronger  when  the  United  States  decided  in  1981  to  allow  Saudi 
Arabia  to  purchase  airborne  warning  and  control  system  (AWACS) 
aircraft. 

In  1983  the  United  States  and  Israel  established  the  Joint  Political- 
Military  Group  (JPMG)  to  address  the  threat  to  American  and 
Israeli  military  interests  in  the  Middle  East  posed  by  the  Soviet 
Union.  The  JPMG  contemplated  joint  military  planning,  combined 
exercises,  and  the  prepositioning  of  United  States  military  equip- 
ment in  Israel.  In  the  same  year,  the  United  States  agreed  to  as- 
sist Israel  in  constructing  its  own  Lavi  fighter  aircraft  by  furnishing 


321 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

technology,  engines,  flight  controls,  and  other  components. 
Although  the  United  States  was  committed  to  contribute  US$1 .75 
billion  to  the  Lavi,  the  project  was  cancelled  in  1987  under  United 
States  pressure  (with  considerable  support  from  senior  Israeli 
officers)  because  of  cost  overruns  that  were  causing  unacceptable 
strains  to  the  entire  Israeli  defense  program. 

As  part  of  the  growing  military  partnership,  aircraft  from  United 
States  Navy  aircraft  carriers  in  the  Mediterranean  used  Israeli 
bombing  ranges  in  the  Negev;  Israel  loaned  the  United  States  older 
Kfir  fighters  with  characteristics  similar  to  the  Soviet  MiG-21  to 
use  for  combat  training;  antiterrorist  teams  from  the  two  coun- 
tries trained  together;  and  joint  submarine  exercises  were  held. 
Israel  also  participated  in  advanced  weapons  research  programs. 
In  1986  the  United  States  granted  Israel  the  right,  along  with  Brit- 
ain and  West  Germany,  to  compete  for  subcontracts  for  the  Stra- 
tegic Defense  Initiative.  In  1988  the  United  States  announced  that 
it  would  provide  Israel  US$120  million  to  continue  research  on  the 
Hetz  antiballistic  missile  system.  Purchases  of  Israeli  products  by 
the  United  States  Department  of  Defense  (including  bridge-laying 
equipment,  mine-laying  and  mine-clearing  systems,  and  electronic 
and  communications  items)  amounted  to  more  than  US$200  mil- 
lion in  1986. 

Israel  benefited  more  than  any  other  country  from  United  States 
military  assistance,  at  a  level  of  approximately  US$1.8  billion  an- 
nually in  the  mid-  and  late  1980s.  Only  Egypt  (US$1.3  billion  in 
1988)  approached  this  sum.  Military  aid  to  Israel,  which  had  been 
in  the  form  of  both  grant  aid  and  military  sales  on  concessional 
credit  terms,  changed  to  an  all-grant  form  beginning  in  United 
States  fiscal  year  (FY)  1985  (see  table  15,  Appendix  A).  The  US$1.2 
billion  provided  each  year  in  economic  aid  enabled  Israel  to  ser- 
vice the  foreign  debt  incurred  by  past  purchases  of  military  materiel. 
United  States  assistance  accounted  for  more  than  one-third  of  all 
Israeli  defense  spending  during  this  period.  Nevertheless,  in  terms 
of  purchasing  power,  the  level  of  direct  military  aid  was  less  than 
the  US$1  billion  received  in  1977. 

In  spite  of  the  intimate  degree  of  cooperation  in  the  military 
sphere,  discord  occasionally  arose  over  the  purposes  to  which  United 
States  equipment  had  been  applied.  Under  the  terms  of  military 
assistance  agreements,  Israel  could  use  the  equipment  only  for  pur- 
poses of  internal  security,  for  legitimate  self-defense,  or  to  partici- 
pate in  regional  defense,  or  in  UN  collective  security  measures. 
Israel  also  agreed  not  to  undertake  aggression  against  any  other 
state.  The  United  States  condemned  the  Israeli  air  strike  against 
Iraq's  Osiraq  (acronym  for  Osiris-Iraq)  nuclear  research  installation 


322 


National  Security 


near  Baghdad  in  1981  using  F-16  aircraft  escorted  by  F-15s.  A 
pending  shipment  of  F- 16s  was  suspended  for  a  time  and  the  sus- 
pension was  extended  when  the  Israeli  air  force  bombed  PLO  tar- 
gets in  West  Beirut,  resulting  in  significant  civilian  casualties.  The 
United  States  lifted  the  ban  after  a  few  months  without  a  formal 
finding  as  to  whether  Israel  had  violated  its  commitments  by  using 
United  States-supplied  aircraft  on  the  two  raids. 

The  United  States  objected  to  Israel's  use  of  cluster  bombs  dur- 
ing Operation  Litani,  its  incursion  into  Lebanon  in  1978.  A  com- 
mitment was  obtained  from  Israel  that  it  would  restrict  the  use  of 
cluster  bombs  that  cast  lethal  projectiles  over  a  wide  area  to  "hard" 
targets.  In  1982,  however,  the  United  States  held  up  further  deliv- 
eries of  the  bombs  when  it  learned  that  they  were  being  used  in 
the  invasion  of  Lebanon.  In  1986,  with  the  embargo  still  in  force, 
the  United  States  launched  an  investigation  into  the  unapproved 
sale  of  equipment  by  private  American  firms  enabling  Israel  to 
manufacture  the  bombs. 

In  addition  to  cooperation  on  materiel,  cooperation  between  the 
two  countries  on  intelligence  matters  had  begun  in  the  early  1960s, 
when  Israel  furnished  the  United  States  with  captured  Soviet  mis- 
siles, antitank  weapons,  and  artillery  shells  for  evaluation  and  test- 
ing. The  United  States  shared  reconnaissance  satellite  data  with 
Israel,  although  after  Israel  apparently  used  satellite  photographs 
to  aid  in  targeting  the  Osiraq  reactor,  the  data  reportedly  were  lim- 
ited to  information  useful  only  for  defensive  purposes  relating  to 
Arab  military  deployments  on  or  near  Israel's  borders.  In  Septem- 
ber 1988,  however,  Israel  announced  that  it  had  launched  its  own 
scientific  satellite  which  was  to  be  followed  by  other  satellites  in 
orbits  characteristic  of  observation  satellites. 

The  Israel  Police 

Law  enforcement  was  entrusted  to  a  single  national  police  force, 
called  simply  the  Israel  Police,  which  had  a  personnel  strength  of 
20,874  men  and  women  in  1986.  The  Israel  Police  had  responsi- 
bility for  preventing  and  detecting  crime;  apprehending  suspects, 
charging  them,  and  bringing  them  to  trial;  keeping  law  and  order; 
and  traffic  control.  Since  1974  the  police  had  also  controlled  inter- 
nal security,  especially  the  prevention  of  border  infiltration  and 
terrorism.  With  the  abolition  of  the  Ministry  of  Police  in  1977, 
the  Israel  Police  came  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Ministry  of  In- 
terior. The  minister  of  interior  appointed  the  police  commanding 
officer,  the  inspector  general.  Since  1967  Israeli  police  have  func- 
tioned in  the  occupied  territories  under  the  authority  of  the  mili- 
tary governors.  In  March  1988,  after  the  murder  of  one  Arab 


323 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

policeman,  at  least  half  of  the  1,000  Palestinian  police  in  the  oc- 
cupied territories  heeded  leaflets  and  radio  broadcasts  calling  upon 
them  to  resign. 

The  country  was  divided  into  four  police  districts  and  a  num- 
ber of  subdistricts.  The  heavily  populated  metropolitan  area  of  Tel 
Aviv  constituted  one  district  that  was  divided  into  three  subdis- 
tricts. The  Southern  District,  with  six  subdistricts,  comprised  central 
and  southern  Israel  down  to  the  Negev  Desert.  The  Northern  Dis- 
trict, with  five  subdistricts,  included  Haifa,  Galilee,  and  the  coastal 
area  north  of  Tel  Aviv.  A  fourth  district  was  formed  in  the  Negev 
following  the  return  to  Egypt  of  the  Sinai  Peninsula  as  part  of  the 
Camp  David  Accords  in  1979.  The  occupied  territories  were  divided 
between  the  northern  and  southern  districts. 

The  subdistricts  exercised  authority  over  individual  police  sta- 
tions. Most  operations,  including  the  investigation  of  crimes,  were 
carried  out  at  the  police  station  level,  subject  to  guidance  from  the 
appropriate  functional  bureau  of  the  national  headquarters  in 
Jerusalem.  The  principal  bureaus  of  national  headquarters  were 
Operations  (patrolling,  traffic,  and  internal  security);  Investiga- 
tion (criminal  investigation,  intelligence,  criminal  identification, 
fraud);  and  Administration  (personnel,  training,  communications, 
finance).  These  bureaus  had  counterparts  at  the  district  level. 

Subordinate  Forces 

The  Border  Police,  a  paramilitary  force  of  about  5,000  men,  was 
part  of  the  Israel  Police  and  reported  directiy  to  the  inspector  gen- 
eral. Its  primary  mission  was  to  patrol  the  northern  border  and 
the  occupied  territories  to  guard  against  infiltration  and  guerrilla 
attacks.  It  also  provided  security  to  ports  and  airports.  Border  Police 
units  were  available  to  assist  regular  police  in  controlling  demon- 
strations and  strikes.  With  a  reputation  for  rigorous  enforcement 
of  the  law,  the  Border  Police  often  behaved  in  a  manner  that  caused 
resentment  among  the  Arab  population.  The  Border  Police  re- 
cruited among  Druze  and  Arab  Christian  minorities  for  operations 
in  Arab  areas.  The  Special  Operational  Unit  of  the  Border  Police 
was  intensively  trained  and  equipped  to  deal  with  major  terrorist 
attacks  but  was  reportedly  underused  because  the  army  continued 
to  handle  this  mission  in  spite  of  the  formal  transfer  of  the  internal 
security  function  to  the  police. 

Civil  defense  units  of  the  army  reserve  also  formed  an  auxiliary 
force  that  through  daytime  foot  patrols  assisted  the  police  in  crime 
prevention,  surveillance  against  sabotage,  and  public  order.  The 
Civil  Guard,  founded  after  the  October  1973  War,  was  a  force  of 
more  than  100,000  volunteers,  including  women  and  high  school 


324 


National  Security 


students.  Its  primary  activities  were  nighttime  patrolling  of  residen- 
tial areas,  keeping  watch  on  the  coastline,  manning  roadblocks, 
and  assisting  the  police  during  public  events.  Civil  Guard  patrols 
were  armed  with  rifles. 

Recruitment  and  training  criteria  for  police  resembled  those  for 
military  service.  The  minimal  education  requirement  for  consta- 
bles was  ten  years  of  schooling,  although,  with  the  rising  level  of 
education  and  increasingly  sophisticated  nature  of  police  work,  most 
recruits  met  more  than  the  minimum  standards.  Low  police  wages 
in  relation  to  other  employment  opportunities  and  the  poor  public 
image  of  the  police  contributed  to  the  force's  chronic  inability  to 
fill  its  ranks.  Since  new  immigrants  tended  to  be  available  as  poten- 
tial recruits,  fluency  in  Hebrew  was  not  a  condition  for  employ- 
ment, although  a  special  course  helped  such  recruits  achieve  a 
working  knowledge  of  the  language.  Somewhat  more  than  15  per- 
cent of  the  Israel  Police  were  women,  most  of  whom  were  assigned 
to  clerical  work,  juvenile  and  family  matters,  and  traffic  control. 
Women  were  not  assigned  to  patrol  work. 

It  was  possible  to  enter  the  police  force  at  any  one  of  four  levels — 
senior  officer,  officer,  noncommissioned  officer,  or  constable — 
depending  on  education  and  experience.  Except  for  certain  special- 
ized professionals,  such  as  lawyers  and  accountants  who  dealt  with 
white  collar  offenses,  most  police  entering  as  officers  had  relevant 
military  experience  and  had  held  equivalent  military  ranks. 

Advancement  was  based  principally  on  success  in  training 
courses,  and  to  a  lesser  degree  on  seniority  and  the  recommenda- 
tion of  the  immediate  superior  officer.  Assignment  to  the  officers' 
training  course  was  preceded  by  a  rigorous  selection  board  in- 
terview. 

The  National  Police  School  at  Shefaraam,  southwest  of  Nazareth, 
offered  courses  on  three  levels:  basic  training,  command  training, 
and  technical  training.  The  six-month  basic  training  course  covered 
language  and  cultural  studies,  the  laws  of  the  country,  investiga- 
tion, traffic  control,  and  other  aspects  of  police  work.  Command 
training  for  sergeants  (six  months)  and  officers  (ten  months)  in- 
cluded seminar-type  work  and  on-the-job  experience  in  investiga- 
tion, traffic,  patrolling,  and  administration.  The  Senior  Officers' 
College  offered  an  eight-month  program  in  national  policy,  staff 
operations,  criminology,  sociology,  and  internal  security.  Tech- 
nical courses  of  varying  duration  covered  such  specialized  areas 
as  investigations,  intelligence,  narcotics,  and  traffic. 

The  Israel  Police  traditionally  has  placed  less  emphasis  on  physical 
fitness,  self-defense,  and  marksmanship  than  police  organizations 
in  other  countries.  A  special  school  for  physical  fitness,  however, 


325 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


was  introduced  in  the  1980s.  Another  innovation  during  this  pe- 
riod was  the  postponement  of  the  six-month  basic  course  until  after 
a  recruit  completed  a  six-month  internship  with  several  experienced 
partners.  The  only  preparation  for  the  initial  field  experience  was 
a  ten-day  introductory  course  on  police  jurisdiction.  The  intern- 
ship phase  weeded  out  recruits  who  could  not  adapt  to  police  work. 
Moreover,  the  recruit  then  had  the  option  of  choosing  one  of  the 
two  areas  of  concentration  into  which  the  basic  course  was 
divided — patrol,  traffic,  and  internal  security,  or  investigation  and 
intelligence. 

Police  Reform 

In  an  attempt  to  analyze  the  growth  of  organized  crime  and  the 
degree  of  effectiveness  of  the  police,  in  1977  the  government  ap- 
pointed a  Commission  to  Examine  the  Topic  of  Crime  in  Israel, 
known  as  the  Shimron  Commission.  The  group's  report  cited  many 
shortcomings  in  the  Israel  Police,  including  the  neglect  of  train- 
ing, especially  of  investigators,  high  turnover,  weak  enforcement 
of  traffic  laws,  a  need  for  improved  community  relations,  lack  of 
communications  and  transportation  equipment,  poor  supervision 
of  precinct  operations,  and  duplication  of  activities  between  na- 
tional and  district  headquarters.  Many  of  the  administrative  reor- 
ganizations recommended  by  the  Shimron  Commission  were 
adopted,  but  implementation  of  major  reforms  lagged.  In  early 
1980,  the  unusual  step  was  taken  of  introducing  an  outsider,  Gen- 
eral Herzl  Shafir,  a  recentiy  retired  IDF  officer,  as  inspector  general. 
Following  an  intensive  six-month  study  of  police  problems,  Shafir 
developed  a  five-year  strategy  to  reorganize  the  police.  Known  as 
Tirosh  (new  wine),  the  strategy  included  plans  for  the  expanded 
use  of  computers  to  determine  the  most  efficient  employment  of 
manpower  and  resources;  innovative  approaches  to  community  re- 
lations; the  routine  rotation  of  personnel  to  counter  staleness  and 
petty  corruption;  major  redeployment  of  police  resources,  includ- 
ing 2,000  new  policemen  to  patrol  800  new  local  beats;  the  estab- 
lishment of  forty-five  new  police  stations,  many  of  them  in  Arab 
communities  of  Israel;  and  a  40  percent  cutback  in  administrative 
personnel. 

After  one  year  in  office,  Shafir  was  dismissed  on  the  ground  of 
inability  to  accept  civilian  control.  He  had  demonstrated  political 
insensitivity  by  ordering  a  police  raid  on  the  files  of  the  Ministry 
of  Religious  Affairs  to  investigate  suspicions  of  fraud  and  bribery 
involving  the  minister.  Despite  the  institution  of  many  aspects 
of  the  Tirosh  program,  the  lack  of  strong  leadership  after 
Shafir' s  departure  thwarted  the  comprehensive  reforms  that  he  had 


326 


National  Security 


advocated.  In  particular,  Shafir's  vision  of  transplanting  the  high 
esprit  de  corps  of  the  IDF  to  the  Israel  Police  failed;  morale,  which 
had  surged  as  a  result  of  his  efforts,  reportedly  sank  back  to  its 
previous  low  state. 

Intelligence  Services 

Many  observers  regarded  Israel's  intelligence  community  as 
among  the  most  professional  and  effective  in  the  world  and  as  a 
leading  factor  in  Israel's  success  in  the  conflict  with  the  Arab  states. 
Its  missions  encompassed  not  only  the  main  task  of  ascertaining 
plans  and  strengths  of  the  Arab  military  forces  opposing  Israel  but 
also  the  work  of  combating  Arab  terrorism  abroad,  collecting  sen- 
sitive technical  data,  and  conducting  political  liaison  and  propa- 
ganda operations. 

The  intelligence  community  had  four  separate  components,  each 
with  distinct  objectives.  The  Central  Institute  for  Intelligence 
and  Special  Missions  (Mossad  Merkazi  Le  Modiin  Uletafkidim 
Meyuhadim — commonly  known  as  Mossad)  had  a  mission  analo- 
gous to  that  of  the  United  States  Central  Intelligence  Agency,  being 
responsible  for  intelligence  gathering  and  operations  in  foreign  coun- 
tries. The  General  Security  Service  (Sherut  Bitahon  Kelali — com- 
monly known  as  Shin  Bet  or  Shabak)  controlled  internal  security 
and,  after  1967,  intelligence  within  the  occupied  territories.  The 
prime  minister  supervised  Mossad  and  Shin  Bet.  Military  intelli- 
gence, the  Intelligence  Branch  of  the  general  staff  (Agaf  Modiin — 
known  as  Aman),  had  responsibility  for  collection  of  military, 
geographic,  and  economic  intelligence,  particularly  within  the  Arab 
world  and  along  Israel's  borders.  Military  intelligence  was  under 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  minister  of  defense,  acting  through  the  chief 
of  staff.  The  Center  for  Research  and  Strategic  Planning,  formerly 
the  Research  Division  of  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  prepared 
analyses  for  government  policy  makers  based  on  raw  intelligence 
as  well  as  longer  analytical  papers. 

Mossad 

Mossad,  with  a  staff  of  1,500  to  2,000  personnel,  had  responsi- 
bility for  human  intelligence  collection,  covert  action,  and  counter- 
terrorism.  Its  focus  was  on  Arab  nations  and  organizations 
throughout  the  world.  Mossad  also  was  responsible  for  the  clan- 
destine movement  of  Jewish  refugees  out  of  Syria,  Iran,  and  Ethio- 
pia. Mossad  agents  were  active  in  the  communist  countries,  in  the 
West,  and  at  the  UN.  Mossad  had  eight  departments,  the  largest 
of  which,  the  Collections  Department,  had  responsibility  for  espi- 
onage operations,  with  offices  abroad  under  both  diplomatic  and 


327 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

unofficial  cover.  The  Political  Action  and  Liaison  Department  con- 
ducted political  activities  and  relations  with  friendly  foreign  intel- 
ligence services  and  with  nations  with  which  Israel  did  not  have 
normal  diplomatic  relations.  In  larger  stations,  such  as  Paris, 
Mossad  customarily  had  under  embassy  cover  two  regional  con- 
trollers: one  to  serve  the  Collections  Department  and  the  other  the 
Political  Action  and  Liaison  Department.  A  Special  Operations 
Division,  believed  to  be  subordinate  to  the  latter  department,  con- 
ducted highly  sensitive  sabotage,  paramilitary,  and  psychological 
warfare  projects. 

Israel's  most  celebrated  spy,  Eli  Cohen,  was  recruited  by  Mossad 
during  the  1960s  to  infiltrate  the  top  echelons  of  the  Syrian  govern- 
ment. Cohen  radioed  information  to  Israel  for  two  years  before 
he  was  discovered  and  publicly  hanged  in  Damascus  Square. 
Another  Mossad  agent,  Wolfgang  Lotz,  established  himself  in 
Cairo,  became  acquainted  with  high-ranking  Egyptian  military  and 
police  officers,  and  obtained  information  on  missile  sites  and  on 
German  scientists  working  on  the  Egyptian  rocket  program.  In  1962 
and  1963,  in  a  successful  effort  to  intimidate  the  Germans,  several 
key  scientists  in  that  program  were  targets  of  assassination  attempts. 
Mossad  also  succeeded  in  seizing  eight  missile  boats  under  con- 
struction for  Israel  in  France,  but  which  had  been  embargoed  by 
French  president  Charles  de  Gaulle  in  December  1968.  In  1960, 
Mossad  carried  out  one  of  its  most  celebrated  operations,  the  kid- 
napping of  Nazi  war  criminal  Adolph  Eichmann  from  Argentina. 
Another  kidnapping,  in  1986,  brought  to  Israel  for  prosecution  the 
nuclear  technician,  Mordechai  Vanunu,  who  had  revealed  details 
of  the  Israeli  nuclear  weapons  program  to  a  London  newspaper. 
During  the  1970s,  Mossad  assassinated  several  Arabs  connected 
with  the  Black  September  terrorist  group.  Mossad  inflicted  a  severe 
blow  on  the  PLO  in  April  1988,  when  an  assassination  team  in- 
vaded a  well-guarded  residence  in  Tunis  to  murder  Arafat's  deputy, 
Abu  Jihad,  considered  to  be  the  principal  PLO  planner  of  mili- 
tary and  terrorist  operations  against  Israel. 

Aman 

Military  intelligence,  or  Aman,  with  an  estimated  staff  of  7,000 
personnel,  produced  comprehensive  national  intelligence  estimates 
for  the  prime  minister  and  cabinet,  daily  intelligence  reports,  risk 
of  war  estimates,  target  studies  on  nearby  Arab  countries,  and  com- 
munications intercepts.  Aman  also  conducted  across-border  agent 
operations.  Aman's  Foreign  Relations  Department  was  responsi- 
ble for  liaison  with  foreign  intelligence  services  and  the  activities 
of  Israeli  military  attaches  abroad.  Aman  was  held  responsible  for 


328 


National  Security 


the  failure  to  obtain  adequate  warning  of  the  Egyptian- Syrian  attack 
that  launched  the  October  1973  War.  Many  indications  of  the  attack 
were  received  but  faulty  assessments  at  higher  levels  permitted  major 
Arab  gains  before  the  IDF  could  mobilize  and  stabilize  the  situation. 

During  preparations  for  the  invasion  of  Lebanon  in  1982,  Aman 
correctly  assessed  the  weaknesses  of  the  Christian  militia  on  which 
Israel  was  depending  and  correctly  predicted  that  a  clash  with  the 
Syrian  garrison  in  Lebanon  was  inevitable.  The  chief  of  intelli- 
gence, Major  General  Yehoshua  Saguy,  made  these  points  to  the 
general  staff  and  privately  to  the  prime  minister.  But,  although 
he  was  present  at  cabinet  meetings,  he  failed  to  make  his  doubts 
known  to  avoid  differing  openly  with  Begin  and  Sharon.  Saguy 
was  forced  to  retire  after  the  Kahan  Commission  found  that  he 
had  been  delinquent  in  his  duties  regarding  the  massacres  at  the 
Sabra  and  Shatila  Palestinian  refugee  camps  (see  The  Siege  of  Beirut 
and  its  Aftermath,  this  ch.). 

Small  air  force  and  naval  intelligence  units  operated  as  semi- 
autonomous  branches  of  Aman.  Air  force  intelligence  primarily 
used  aerial  reconnaissance  and  radio  intercepts  to  collect  informa- 
tion on  strength  levels  of  Arab  air  forces  and  for  target  compila- 
tion. In  addition  to  reconnaissance  aircraft,  pilotless  drones  were 
used  extensively  to  observe  enemy  installations.  Naval  intelligence 
collected  data  on  Arab  and  Soviet  naval  activities  in  the  Mediter- 
ranean and  prepared  coastal  studies  for  naval  gunfire  missions  and 
beach  assaults. 

Shin  Bet 

Shin  Bet,  the  counterespionage  and  internal  security  service,  was 
believed  to  have  three  operational  departments  and  five  support 
departments.  The  Arab  Affairs  Department  had  responsibility  for 
antiterrorist  operations,  political  subversion,  and  maintenance  of 
an  index  on  Arab  terrorists.  The  Non-Arab  Affairs  Department, 
divided  into  communist  and  noncommunist  sections,  concerned 
itself  with  all  other  countries,  including  penetrating  foreign  intel- 
ligence services  and  diplomatic  missions  in  Israel  and  interrogat- 
ing immigrants  from  the  Soviet  Union  and  Eastern  Europe.  The 
Protective  Security  Department  had  responsibility  for  protecting 
Israeli  government  buildings  and  embassies,  defense  industries, 
scientific  installations,  industrial  plants,  and  El  Al. 

Shin  Bet  monitored  the  activities  of  and  personalities  in  domes- 
tic right-wing  fringe  groups  and  subversive  leftist  movements.  It 
was  believed  to  have  infiltrated  agents  into  the  ranks  of  the  parties 
of  the  far  left  and  had  uncovered  a  number  of  foreign  technicians 
spying  for  neighboring  Arab  countries  or  the  Soviet  Union.  All 


329 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

foreigners,  regardless  of  religion  or  nationality,  were  liable  to  come 
under  surveillance  through  an  extensive  network  of  informants  who 
regularly  came  into  contact  with  visitors  to  Israel.  Shin  Bet's  net- 
work of  agents  and  informers  in  the  occupied  territories  destroyed 
the  PLO's  effectiveness  there  after  1967,  forcing  the  PLO  to  with- 
draw to  bases  in  Jordan. 

Shin  Bet's  reputation  as  a  highly  proficient  internal  security 
agency  was  tarnished  severely  by  two  public  scandals  in  the 
mid-1980s.  In  April  1984,  Israeli  troops  stormed  a  bus  hijacked 
by  four  Palestinians  in  the  Gaza  Strip.  Although  two  of  the  hijackers 
survived,  they  were  later  beaten  to  death  by  Shin  Bet  agents.  It 
appeared  that  the  agents  were  acting  under  orders  of  Avraham 
Shalom,  the  head  of  Shin  Bet.  Shalom  falsified  evidence  and  in- 
structed Shin  Bet  witnesses  to  lie  to  investigators  to  cover  up  Shin 
Bet's  role.  In  the  ensuing  controversy,  the  attorney  general  was 
removed  from  his  post  for  refusing  to  abandon  his  investigation. 
The  president  granted  pardons  to  Shalom,  his  deputies  who  had 
joined  in  the  cover-up,  and  the  agents  implicated  in  the  killings. 

In  1987  Izat  Nafsu,  a  former  IDF  army  lieutenant  and  member 
of  the  Circassian  minority,  was  released  after  his  1980  conviction 
for  treason  (espionage  on  behalf  of  Syria)  was  overturned  by  the 
Supreme  Court.  The  court  ruled  that  Shin  Bet  had  used  unethical 
interrogation  methods  to  obtain  Nafsu 's  confession  and  that  Shin 
Bet  officers  had  presented  false  testimony  to  the  military  tribunal 
that  had  convicted  him.  A  judicial  commission  set  up  to  report  on 
the  methods  and  practices  of  Shin  Bet  found  that  for  the  previous 
seventeen  years  it  had  been  the  accepted  norm  for  Shin  Bet  inter- 
rogators to  lie  to  the  courts  about  their  interrogation  methods  (see 
Judicial  System,  this  ch.). 

Lekem 

Until  officially  disbanded  in  1986,  the  Bureau  of  Scientific 
Relations  (Leshkat  Kesher  Madao — Lekem)  collected  scientific  and 
technical  intelligence  abroad  from  both  open  and  covert  sources. 
Lekem  was  dismantled  following  the  scandal  aroused  in  the  United 
States  by  the  arrest  of  Jonathan  Jay  Pollard  for  espionage  on  be- 
half of  Israel.  Pollard,  a  United  States  naval  intelligence  employee 
in  Washington,  received  considerable  sums  for  delivering  vast  quan- 
tities of  classified  documents  to  the  scientific  officers  (Lekem  agents) 
at  the  Israeli  embassy.  Pollard  was  sentenced  to  life  imprisonment. 
Although  the  Israeli  government  asserted  that  the  operation  was 
an  unauthorized  deviation  from  its  policy  of  not  conducting  espi- 
onage against  the  United  States,  statements  by  the  Israeli  par- 
ticipants and  by  Pollard  himself  cast  doubt  on  these  claims. 


330 


National  Security 


Criminal  Justice 

A  three-tiered  court  system  of  magistrate  courts,  district  courts, 
and  Supreme  Court  applied  Israeli  law  to  all  persons  within  Israel's 
borders.  Municipal  courts,  with  a  more  limited  sentencing  power 
than  magistrate  courts,  enforced  municipal  ordinances  and  bylaws. 
Juvenile  matters  were  heard  by  juvenile  court  judges  assigned  to 
magistrate  and  district  courts.  The  judiciary  was  independent  and 
the  right  to  a  hearing  by  an  impartial  tribunal,  with  representa- 
tion by  counsel,  was  guaranteed  by  law.  All  trials  were  open,  with 
the  exception  of  security  cases. 

A  separate  Palestinian  court  system  operated  in  the  occupied  ter- 
ritories, supplemented  by  military  courts  that  tried  security  cases. 
A  mixture  of  military  regulations  and  laws  dating  back  to  the 
Ottoman  and  the  Mandate  periods  were  applied.  Israeli  citizens 
and  foreign  visitors  were  not  subject  to  the  local  courts  of  the  oc- 
cupied territories.  The  quality  of  judicial  standards  in  the  military 
courts  and  the  absence  of  any  appeal  system  from  the  verdicts  of 
Israeli  military  judges  were  widely  criticized  in  Israel  and  abroad. 
Some  questionable  practices  regarding  the  treatment  of  Palestini- 
ans in  such  courts  are  mentioned  in  the  country  reports  on  human 
rights  compiled  by  the  United  States  Department  of  State. 

Judicial  System 

Israeli  law  provided  normal  guarantees  for  its  citizens  against 
arbitrary  arrest  and  imprisonment.  Writs  of  habeas  corpus  and  other 
safeguards  against  violations  of  due  process  existed.  Confessions 
extracted  by  torture  and  other  forms  of  duress  were  inadmissible 
as  evidence  in  court.  The  Criminal  Procedure  Law  of  1965 
described  general  provisions  with  regard  to  application  of  law, 
pretrial  and  trial  procedure,  and  appeal.  It  supplemented  the  Courts 
Law  of  1957,  which  prescribed  the  composition,  jurisdiction,  and 
functioning  of  the  court  system  and  provided  details  of  appellate 
remedies  and  procedures. 

All  secular  courts  in  Israel  dealt  with  criminal  as  well  as  civil 
matters.  The  magistrate  courts  decided  about  150,000  criminal  cases 
in  1985.  The  district  courts  decided  about  12,500  criminal  cases 
in  the  first  instance  and  3,700  as  appeal  cases.  The  Supreme  Court 
decided  approximately  2,000  criminal  cases  of  all  kinds.  The  average 
lapse  of  time  between  committing  an  offense  and  conviction  was 
nineteen  months  in  magistrate  courts  and  eleven  months  in  dis- 
trict courts. 

Punishments  for  convicted  criminals  included  suspended 
sentences,  fines,  a  choice  of  imprisonment  or  fine,  imprisonment 
and  fine,  or  imprisonment.  The  death  penalty  could  be  imposed 
for  treason  or  for  conviction  for  Nazi  war  crimes  but,  as  of  1988, 


331 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Eichmann  was  the  only  person  to  be  executed  as  the  result  of  a 
judicial  process.  Prison  sentences  were  mandatory  only  for  excep- 
tional crimes,  such  as  attacking  a  policeman.  Only  a  small  per- 
centage of  criminal  convictions  actually  resulted  in  incarceration, 
and  sentences  were  relatively  short.  In  1986  more  than  half  of  the 
prison  terms  were  for  one  year  or  less  and  96  percent  were  for  fewer 
than  five  years.  Sentences  by  military  tribunals  were  more  harsh; 
terms  of  fifteen  years  to  life  imprisonment  were  not  unusual. 

Warrants  generally  were  required  for  arrests  and  searches, 
although  a  person  could  be  arrested  without  a  warrant  if  there  were 
reason  to  suspect  that  he  or  she  had  committed  a  felony,  was  a  fugi- 
tive from  justice,  or  was  apprehended  in  the  act  of  committing  an 
offense.  A  person  so  arrested  had  to  be  brought  before  a  judge  within 
forty-eight  hours;  the  judge  could  order  the  prisoner's  release,  with 
or  without  bail,  or  could  authorize  further  detention  for  a  period 
up  to  fifteen  days.  Authorization  for  detention  could  be  renewed 
for  an  additional  fifteen-day  period,  but  any  further  extension  re- 
quired the  approval  of  the  attorney  general.  Administrative  deten- 
tion could  be  used  in  security-related  cases  when  formally  charging 
a  person  would  compromise  sensitive  sources  of  information. 

Unless  detained  for  an  offense  punishable  by  death  or  life  im- 
prisonment, an  arrested  person  could  be  released  on  bail,  which 
could  take  the  form  of  personal  recognizance,  cash  deposit,  surety 
bond,  or  any  combination  thereof.  A  person  held  in  custody  must 
be  released  unconditionally  if  trial  had  not  commenced  within  sixty 
days  or  if  it  had  not  ended  within  one  year  from  the  date  on  which 
a  statement  of  charge  had  been  filed.  Only  a  judge  of  the  Supreme 
Court  could  order  an  extension  of  these  time  limitations. 

Any  person  arrested  was  entitled  to  communicate  with  a  friend 
or  relative  and  a  lawyer  as  soon  as  possible.  In  felony  cases,  ar- 
rests could  be  kept  secret  for  reasons  of  national  security  upon  re- 
quest of  the  minister  of  defense.  Representation  by  counsel  in  such 
cases  could  be  delayed  up  to  seven  days  and  up  to  fifteen  days  in 
terrorist-related  cases.  Offenses  committed  by  civilians  against  emer- 
gency regulations  (which  had  been  in  effect  since  the  state  of  emer- 
gency in  force  at  the  founding  of  the  nation  in  1948)  were  tried 
by  military  courts  composed  of  three  commissioned  officers.  Until 
1963  the  judgments  of  such  courts  were  final,  but  at  that  time  the 
right  of  appeal  was  granted  under  an  amendment  to  the  Military 
Justice  Law.  Individuals  charged  with  offenses  against  the  Preven- 
tion of  Infiltration  Law  were  tried  by  a  military  court  consisting 
of  a  single  officer;  appeals  were  heard  by  a  court  composed  of  three 
officers. 


332 


National  Security 


Magistrate  court  cases  generally  were  tried  before  a  single  judge. 
Cases  in  the  Supreme  Court  were  heard  by  panels  of  three  judges 
as  were  appeals  cases  in  district  courts  and  cases  where  the  maxi- 
mum sentence  was  ten  years  or  more.  There  were  no  juries  in  Israeli 
courts.  Persons  accused  of  crimes  punishable  by  imprisonment  of 
ten  years  or  more,  juveniles,  and  persons  unable  to  afford  private 
counsel  could  be  represented  by  a  lawyer  appointed  by  the  court. 
In  pleading,  defendants  could  remain  silent  or  could  testify  under 
oath  in  their  own  behalf,  in  which  case  they  were  subject  to  cross- 
examination.  They  could  also  make  statements  upon  which  they 
could  not  be  examined. 

A  special  judicial  commission  headed  by  the  former  president 
of  the  Supreme  Court,  Moshe  Landau,  reported  in  1987  that,  since 
1971 ,  internal  security  agents  of  Shin  Bet  had  routinely  used  phys- 
ical and  psychological  mistreatment  to  obtain  confessions.  The 
Landau  Commission  found  that  Shin  Bet  interrogators  had,  under 
orders,  systematically  perjured  themselves  when  accused  persons 
tried  to  retract  their  confessions.  According  to  the  United  States 
Department  of  States' s  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1987,  the  commission  set  out  in  a  secret  annex  to  the  report 
what  it  regarded  as  acceptable  physical-and  psychological  pressures 
that  might  be  exerted  in  the  interrogation  of  terrorism  suspects. 

Criminal  Justice  in  the  Occupied  Territories 

Local  law  in  the  occupied  territories  combined  Jordanian  and 
Ottoman  legislation  and  regulations  from  the  Mandate  period, 
greatly  extended  by  Israeli  military  orders  affecting  a  broad  range 
of  political  and  social  activities.  The  law  applied  to  most  criminal 
and  civil  matters  in  the  West  Bank.  In  the  Gaza  Strip,  local  law 
was  based  mainly  on  British  mandatory  law,  as  modified  by  Israel. 
Palestinians  accused  of  nonsecurity  offenses  were  tried  in  the  local 
Arab  court  system,  which  consisted  of  nine  magistrate  courts,  three 
district  courts,  and  the  one  Court  of  Appeal  in  Ram  Allah  in  the 
West  Bank.  In  1985  the  magistrate  courts  decided  more  than  36,000 
cases,  the  district  courts  more  than  1,300  cases,  and  the  Court  of 
Appeal  1,600  cases.  Local  courts  had  no  power  in  cases  involving 
land,  and  Israeli  residents  could  not  be  brought  to  trial  or  sued 
in  them.  Any  judicial  proceeding  could  be  halted  and  transferred 
to  a  military  court  by  the  military  government.  The  local  courts 
had  low  standing,  lacking  the  means  to  execute  court  decisions, 
with  the  result  that  in  many  cases  judgments  were  not  implemented. 

The  Israeli  court  system  was  empowered,  under  emergency  regu- 
lations enacted  by  the  Knesset,  to  try  offenses  committed  in  the 
occupied  territories  by  Israelis  and  foreign  visitors.  Israeli  citizens 


333 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

were  tried  under  Israeli  law,  and  were  immune  from  charges  based 
on  local  law.  Military  courts  were  empowered  to  try  residents  of 
the  occupied  territories  for  criminal  offenses  based  on  local  law  and 
security  offenses  as  defined  in  military  government  regulations.  Mili- 
tary courts  were  generally  composed  of  three  judges,  one  of  whom 
must  be  a  lawyer.  Occasionally,  a  single  military  judge  tried  cases 
in  which  the  maximum  sentence  did  not  exceed  five  years.  There 
was  no  appeal  from  judgments  of  the  military  courts.  In  early  1988, 
the  Supreme  Court  urged  that  an  appeal  system  be  established, 
although  it  did  not  have  the  power  to  impose  such  a  change.  This 
recommendation  was  rejected  by  the  government  as  a  budgetary 
burden  and  a  sign  of  weakness  in  the  campaign  against  terrorism. 

Persons  held  on  security  grounds  were  not  granted  bail  and  were 
denied  access  to  counsel  or  other  outside  contacts  for  a  period  of 
eighteen  days,  during  which  they  could  be  held  in  custody  without 
formal  charges.  Access  could  be  denied  indefinitely  if  the  authori- 
ties believed  access  would  impede  the  investigation.  Many  secu- 
rity cases  involved  secret  evidence,  access  to  which  was  denied  to 
the  accused  and  to  his  attorney.  Convictions  often  were  based  on 
confessions  recorded  in  Hebrew,  which  most  prisoners  did  not 
understand. 

International  human  rights  organizations  complained  of  system- 
atic mistreatment  of  prisoners  held  on  security  grounds.  Amnesty 
International  reported  that  agents  of  Shin  Bet  extracted  confessions 
by  beatings,  extended  solitary  confinement,  immersion  in  cold 
water,  and  "hoodings."  In  most  security  cases,  confessions  were 
the  only  evidence  leading  to  conviction. 

The  military  authorities  also  could  impose  administrative  deten- 
tions and  deportations.  Administrative  detentions  normally  had  re- 
quired confirmation  by  a  military  judge,  but  this  step  was  abolished 
in  1988.  During  1987,  120  Palestinians  were  subjected  to  adminis- 
trative detention  and  9  were  deported.  As  a  result  of  the  violence 
during  1988,  however,  these  measures  were  applied  on  a  large  scale. 
During  the  first  six  months  of  1988,  at  least  18,000  Palestinians 
were  taken  into  custody  at  various  times;  of  about  5,000  Palestini- 
ans being  held  at  mid-year,  nearly  half  were  administrative  de- 
tainees. A  further  thirty-five  had  been  deported.  It  was  often  difficult 
for  relatives  or  lawyers  to  obtain  confirmation  of  the  detention  or 
learn  where  the  detainee  was  being  held.  Detentions  could  be  ap- 
pealed before  a  military  judge  whose  decision  was  final.  The  brief 
appeal  hearing  was  described  as  little  more  than  a  ritual. 

Penal  System 

The  penal  system  of  both  Israel  and  the  occupied  territories  was 
administered  by  the  Israel  Prison  Service,  a  branch  of  the  Ministry 


334 


National  Security 


of  Interior  independent  of  the  Israel  Police.  It  was  headed  by  the 
commissioner  of  prisons.  The  prison  system  was  originally  set  up 
in  1926  as  part  of  the  British  Mandate  police  force.  Many  of  the 
prisons  still  in  use  in  1988  were  built  in  the  1930s  by  the  British 
authorities.  Outside  the  authority  of  the  Prison  Service  were  police 
lockups  located  in  every  major  town  and  military  detention  centers 
in  Israel  and  the  occupied  territories. 

As  of  January  1,  1987,  the  Prison  Service  operated  thirteen  pris- 
ons and  detention  centers  in  Israel  and  eight  penitentiaries  in  the 
Gaza  Strip  and  the  West  Bank.  Palestinians  of  the  occupied  terri- 
tories serving  sentences  of  more  than  five  years  were  incarcerated 
in  maximum  security  prisons  within  Israel.  The  prison  population 
in  Israel  was  3,837  and  in  the  occupied  territories  was  4,527.  Neve 
Tirza,  the  sole  facility  for  women,  had  ninety-seven  inmates. 

These  totals  did  not  include  the  sizable  numbers  of  Palestinians 
who  were  being  held  in  military  detention  centers.  As  of  mid- 1988 
about  half  of  the  detainees  were  confined  at  Ketziot,  a  tent  camp 
in  the  Negev  Desert  close  to  the  Egyptian  border,  which  held  at 
least  2,500  prisoners.  A  large  number  of  rock-throwing  juveniles 
were  held  at  Ansar  2,  a  camp  in  the  Gaza  Strip.  As  described  in 
the  Israeli  press  and  by  visiting  human  rights  officials,  tension 
among  the  detainees  at  Ketziot — many  of  them  business  and  profes- 
sional people — was  high  owing  to  petty  humiliations,  boredom, 
severe  climatic  conditions,  overcrowding,  and  isolation.  No  radios, 
watches,  or  books  were  permitted.  Punishment  included  periods 
of  exposure  to  the  fierce  desert  sun,  but  beatings  and  brutality  were 
said  to  be  rare. 

Israeli  prisons  were  chronically  overcrowded;  violence  and  abuse 
on  the  part  of  the  staff  were  common.  As  of  the  early  1980s,  an 
American  specialist  described  the  available  occupational  and  re- 
habilitation facilities  as  only  nominal.  An  investigative  commis- 
sion appointed  by  the  Supreme  Court  reported  in  1981  that  "the 
condition  of  the  prisons  is  so  serious,  subhuman,  and  on  the  verge 
of  explosion  that  it  calls  for  a  revolutionary  change  in  the  way  pri- 
sons are  run."  Conditions  were  especially  bad  in  two  of  the  four 
maximum  security  penitentiaries,  Beersheba,  the  largest  prison  in 
Israel,  and  Ram  Allah.  At  Beersheba  the  commission  found  se- 
vere lack  of  sanitation,  drug  smuggling,  and  close  confinement  with 
almost  no  opportunity  for  exercise.  The  commission  recommended 
the  demolition  of  the  Ram  Allah  penitentiary  as  unfit  for  human 
habitation. 

Palestinian  and  international  human  rights  groups  have  com- 
plained of  widespread  and  systematic  mistreatment  of  Arab 
prisoners.  Periodic  hunger  strikes  have  been  undertaken  by 


335 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Palestinian  prisoners  demanding  the  same  basic  privileges  as  Jew- 
ish inmates. 

A  number  of  new  prisons  were  completed  during  the  early  1980s 
and,  as  of  1987,  construction  of  a  new  prison  hospital  was  under- 
way, as  were  new  wings  at  several  existing  prisons.  The  increased 
accommodation  would,  however,  do  little  more  than  provide  space 
for  a  rising  prison  population.  During  1986  the  total  number  of 
inmates  had  risen  by  587  while  new  construction  added  670  spaces 
in  the  prison  system. 

Supplementary  courses  to  enable  prisoners  to  complete  elemen- 
tary or  secondary  education  were  available  and  completed  success- 
fully by  nearly  1,000  inmates  in  1986.  In  some  prisons,  employment 
was  available  in  small-scale  enterprises  operated  by  the  prison  ser- 
vice or  by  private  entrepreneurs.  About  2,700  prisoners  were  em- 
ployed in  some  fashion.  A  total  of  500  inmates  participated  in 
vocational  training  in  1986  in  a  variety  of  trades,  including  car- 
pentry, bookbinding,  printing,  tailoring,  and  shoemaking. 

Furloughs  were  granted  for  good  behavior;  15,000  permits  for 
home  leave  were  issued  in  1986.  A  temporary  parole  often  was  al- 
lowed non-security  prisoners  after  serving  one-third  of  their  sen- 
tences. After  completing  two- thirds  of  their  sentences,  such  prisoners 
could  earn  a  permanent  parole  for  good  behavior.  Although  parole 
privileges  were  not  extended  to  those  convicted  of  security  offenses, 
the  president  had  the  power  to  grant  pardons  and,  on  occasion, 
group  amnesties  were  offered  to  security  prisoners. 

During  1986  about  40  percent  of  the  prisoners  in  Israel  were 
serving  sentences  for  crimes  against  property  and  a  further  19  per- 
cent for  drug  trafficking  or  possession.  In  the  Gaza  Strip  and  the 
West  Bank,  nearly  36  percent  had  been  convicted  of  terrorist  or 
hostile  activity,  although  many  others  were  serving  sentences  for 
related  crimes,  such  as  use  of  explosives  and  Molotov  cocktails, 
armed  infiltration,  and  endangering  state  security.  Less  than  6  per- 
cent had  been  convicted  of  property  offenses. 

*     *  * 

Among  general  studies  on  the  IDF,  one  important  work  is  The 
Israeli  Army  by  Edward  Luttwak  and  Dan  Horowitz,  which  pro- 
vides both  a  historical  and  a  contemporary  perspective  up  to  the 
mid-1970s.  Additional  material  can  be  found  in  Zeev  Schiff  s  A 
History  of  the  Israeli  Army,  1874  to  the  Present,  published  in  1985,  and 
Reuven  Gal's  A  Portrait  of  the  Israeli  Soldier,  published  in  1986. 

A  vast  amount  of  writing  on  the  Israeli  national  security  estab- 
lishment resulted  from  the  1982  invasion  of  Lebanon.  Perhaps  the 


336 


National  Security 


work  with  the  greatest  impact  was  Israel's  Lebanon  War  by  Zeev  Schiff 
and  Ehud  Yaari.  This  highly  critical  account,  with  considerable 
detail  on  the  personal  interaction  among  leading  political  and  mili- 
tary figures,  caused  an  uproar  when  it  was  published  in  Israel. 
Flawed  Victory,  by  Trevor  N.  Dupuy  and  Paul  Mart  ell,  recounts 
Israel's  military  involvement  in  Lebanon  over  a  somewhat  longer 
period  and  provides  a  detached  appraisal  of  the  performance  of 
the  IDF. 

The  Middle  East  Military  Balance,  1986,  by  Aharon  Levran  and 
Zeev  Eytan,  includes  country-by-country  analyses  of  the  compet- 
ing forces  in  the  region.  The  study  assesses  the  growing  external 
security  threat  to  Israel  posed  by  the  Arab  military  build-up  be- 
tween the  mid-1970s  and  the  mid-1980s  and  the  budget  restric- 
tions affecting  the  IDF  beginning  in  1984.  The  capabilities  of  the 
IDF  vis-a-vis  its  Arab  neighbors  are  also  examined  in  briefer  com- 
mentaries by  Kenneth  S,  Brower  and  Drew  Middleton. 

Since  limited  data  are  available  from  official  sources  on  the  units, 
personnel  strengths,  and  equipment  of  the  IDF,  much  of  the  dis- 
cussion in  this  chapter  is  based  on  estimates  published  in  The  Mili- 
tary Balance,  1987-1988,  by  the  International  Institute  for  Strategic 
Studies  in  London.  Israel's  links  with  many  other  countries  in  the 
form  of  military  sales  and  training  assistance  are  traced  in  Benja- 
min Beit-Hallahmi's  The  Israeli  Connection:  Who  Israel  Arms  and  Why. 
A  fuller,  more  scholarly  treatment  of  the  same  subject  is  Israel's 
Global  Reach:  Arms  Sales  as  Diplomacy  by  Aaron  S.  Kleiman.  One 
chapter  of  Bernard  Reich's  The  United  States  and  Israel:  Influence  in 
the  Special  Relationship  is  devoted  to  the  military  aspects  of  coopera- 
tion between  the  two  countries.  Mordechai  Gazit's  article,  "Israeli 
Military  Procurement  from  the  United  States,"  provides  additional 
details  on  the  subject. 

An  overview  of  the  first  six  months  of  the  uprising  that  began 
in  the  occupied  territories  in  December  1987  can  be  found  in  Don 
Peretz's  "Intifadeh:  The  Palestinian  Uprising"  in  the  summer  1988 
issue  of  Foreign  Affairs.  Israeli  punishment  and  legal  sanctions  against 
the  Arab  population  are  assessed  in  the  United  States  Department 
of  State's  annual  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices.  (For  fur- 
ther information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


337 


Appendix  A 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Sources  of  Jewish  Population  Growth,  1948-86 

3  Students  in  Education  Institutions,  Selected  Years,  1948-87 

4  Hospital  Beds  and  Hospitals,  1986 

5  Government  Revenues,  Fiscal  Years  (FY)  1983-86 

6  Government  Expenditures,  Fiscal  Years  (FY)  1983-86 

7  United  States  Government  Aid,  1982-86 

8  Structure  of  Industry,  1984-85 

9  Agricultural  Production,  1980-85 

10  Major  Trading  Partners,  Selected  Years,  1970-86 

11  Balance  of  Payments  Indicators,  1982-86 

12  Major  Israel  Defense  Forces  Equipment,  Ground  Forces,  1988 

13  Major  Israel  Defense  Forces  Equipment,  Navy,  1988 

14  Major  Israel  Defense  Forces  Equipment,  Air  Force,  1988 

15  United  States  Military  Aid  to  Israel,  1979-89 


339 


Appendix  A 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


When  you  know  Multiply  by  To  find 


Millimeters    0.04  inches 

Centimeters    0.39  inches 

Meters  '   3.3  feet 

Kilometers   0.62  miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)   2.47  acres 

Square  kilometers    0.39  square  miles 

Cubic  meters   35.3  cubic  feet 

Liters   0.26  gallons 

Kilograms    2.2  pounds 

Metric  tons    0.98  long  tons 

  1.1  short  tons 

  2,204  pounds 

Degrees  Celsius   9  degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade)  divide  by  5 

and  add  32 


Table  2.  Sources  of  Jewish  Population  Growth,  1948-86 
(in  thousands) 


1948-60 

1961-71 

1972-82 

1983-86 

Population  at  beginning  of 
period   

649.6 

1,911.2 

2,662.0 

3,363.8 

392.3 

412.9 

523.3 

198.4 

Immigration   

869.3 

337.9 

178.5 

13.4 

1,261.6 

750.8 

701.8 

211.8 

Annual  percentage  increase    .  . 

9.6 

3.0 

2.1 

1.5 

Immigration  as  percentage  .  .  . 

68.9 

45.0 

25.1 

6.3 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Israel,  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Abstract 
of  Israel,  1987,  No.  38,  Jerusalem,  1987,  31. 


341 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Table  3.  Students  in  Education  Institutions,  Selected  Years,  1948-87 


1948-49 

1969-70 

1986-87 

Hebrew  education 

25,406 

107,668 

260,500 

Primary  schools   

91,133 

375,534 

468,545 

Schools  for  handicapped  

n.a. 

18,820 

12,071 

Total  primary  education  

91,133 

394,354 

480,616 

n.a. 

7,908 

109,365 

7  1  £R 
/  ,  1  Oo 

7^1 

Q£  Q.  1  3 
OO.O 1  J 

1,048 

8,508 

8,303 

2,002 

49,556 

91,720 

n.a. 

7,641 

4,683 

Total  secondary  schools   

10,218 

129,436 

191,519 

Teacher  colleges  

713 

4,994 

11,006 

Other  post-secondary  education  .... 

583 

6,900 

20,073 

1,635 

36,239 

67,160 

Other  institutions  

n.a. 

26,300 

40,500 

TOTAL   

129,688 

713,799 

1,180,739 

Arab  education 

1,124 

14,211 

20,100 

9,991 

85,094 

139,515 

n.a. 

Total  primary  education  

9,991 

85,449 

140,777 

Intermediate  schools   

n.a. 

2,457 

23,393 

General  academic  

14 

6,198 

29,469 

Vocational   

n.a. 

1,462 

5,696 

n.a. 

390 

640 

Total  secondary  schools   

14 

8,050 

35,805 

Teacher  colleges  

n.a. 

370 

451 

Other  post-secondary  education  .... 

n.a. 

131 

TOTAL   

11,129 

110,537 

220,657 

— means  negligible, 
n.a. — not  available. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Israel,  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Abstract 
of  Israel,  1987,  No.  38,  Jerusalem,  1987,  582-83. 


342 


Appendix  A 

Table  4.  Hospital  Beds  and  Hospitals,  1986 

Hospitals  Beds 


Type 

General  care    44  11,927 

Mental  diseases   29  7,672 

Chronic  diseases    75  7,285 

Rehabilitation   2  495 

Tuberculosis     0  20 

TOTAL    150  27,399 

Ownership 

Government    29  9,649 

Municipality    2  1,329 

Kupat  Holim  (Histadrut  Sick  Fund)    14  5,006 

Hadassah    1  869 

Missions    7  636 

Other  nonprofit    37  3,574 

Private  hospitals    60  6,336 

TOTAL    150  27,399 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Israel,  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Abstract 
of  Israel,  1987,  No.  38,  Jerusalem,  1987,  653-54. 


343 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


] 


v 
> 


I 


I 


1 


!N  r-,  C  —  Ol 


m       cr.  m  m       ic  iO  'r 


cm  r-  so  •<*•  t}>  co  ^  en 

CO  o  CsJ  CO  d  ~        o  O  CN 


M  C  N   ^.  — 

SO  —  CO  —  — 


cm  lO  lO  co  —  IC 
cd  cm  cm  d  —  in 


r-  cm  m  co  —  o       m  (N 


C  n  n  -  x  -  — 


i£>  cr>  co 
5^ 


C  ^  X  ^  VC 


spsii  in    isss  s 


15! 


t*-  to  CO  r- 

5gc  £ 


CM  vO         CO  Ol 

5 


0  to  CO  CO 

1  2  s  i 


*o  lo  lo 


m  to  io  m      cm      —  co  co  — <^  o 


CM  CM  CO   —  CTl 


o  co  m  to  co  o       n  io  m  iO  O  CM  CM  m 

vd  co  cm  cm  o  —      cr.  co  co  co  cri  oi  co  — 


o  o  —  r»  io 


SlSS5*    Sl|         1111  S 


K!  nil 


344 


Appendix  A 


cm  m  r-^  cm  ^  '-i  en 
in  *-i  <~o  ©  ©  ©  cri 


— h  CM 


^eninr^cdad^-^CMcri 
cm      ai  m  «  i-H 


en  — m'  ©  ©  ©  co  in  id  cm 


^■^©©©CM^cncn 


^O^OCM^noOOin 

aico'iric^md^cddio 
coocfiN«cM«ocno 
m  cm  co  m  a  yD  co 


cocomN««mcn'H 
(Ort'*d6d«io'n 


co  m 
m  <£> 


t>.  © 

^  in 

en 


m  o 
^'  m' 


cm  m 


m 

m 

m 

00 

X 

m 

X 

m 

-* 

C7> 

O 

~ 

0 
c 

CM 

en 

m 

x 

X 

IC 

°°. 

O 

in 
t>- 

m 

O 

m 

a> 

CM 

cm 
O 
O 

r- 

CM 

CM 
CM 

en 

cm" 

CM 

en 

"*< 

m 

© 

3 

O 

m 

in 

X 

m 

m 

O 

m 

O 

X 

en 

en 

O 

en 

en 

0 

en 

CO 

CM 

CM 

m 

CM 

m 

CM 

<u  C 

s  is  -2 

li   03  o 

-°  — , 


a,  ""3 
W  O 


™  03  C 

~  Oh    h  a 

c  u  «  o 

I  u  "2  « 

1-5  0  5 

>  S 

u  o 

Q  H 


o  m 


345 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Table  7.  United  States  Government  Aid,  1982-86 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars)  1 

1982  1983  1984  1985  1986 


Aid 

Grants1    1,259  1,618  2,271  3,885  3,817 

Long-  and  medium-term  loans  1,081  1,092  950  0  405 

Total  gross  aid   2,341  2     2,711  2  3,221  3,885  4,222 

Payments 

Loan  repayments 

Principal    177  155  174  109  135 

Interest    569  750  873  946  946 

Total  loan  repayments  ..  .  746  905  1,047  1,055  1,081 

Total  net  aid    1,595  1,805  2,174  2,830  3,141 


1  Includes  military  and  some  economic  grants. 

2  Figures  may  not  add  because  of  rounding. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Bank  of  Israel,  Annual  Report,  1986,  Jerusalem,  May 
1987,  126;  Annual  Report,  1987,  Jerusalem,  May  1988,  202. 


346 


Appendix  A 


CO 

i 

to 

e 

CO 


IP'S  1 
v  r*  > 


iococooctio^o— icooocor-eooo^r^m 


OMMNCO'iOIOOmOlNN^'HiIin 

Tt«^ocor^~Hmmmcoc?>(£5'«*<c7>mcMC7>-^ 


o  ~ 

*  M         IX)  (J) 

-i  cn  m  * 


(NMCONtNOiONaiCTlOfM^ailDCOO 

'  cm  cm  m"  cm 


a>       cm  l£> 


comiNTHCooiocnN 


l£>  CM  CO 
CM 


nNOiomN'tmiCQairtiocflOO 


to  ■* 


ictNOiascocoorNiNtocoinnufficoff) 
OeocMCMmcMCTimcM-^-^eocM'*'  co 


O 

be  w 


1  > 

bo-° 


"8 


bo 


U  GO 

S  -5 

T1  O, 


o  0.3. 


o  e 
IS 


S  C 


tJ   as   o  «  -j 

S  JS  =3  3  o 

15   "3     (5     U  L 


^3  3 


M      «      «      ¥  H 

x  o  c3  §  a.S  -S^S 


1 1 


"  o  • - 
o  rs  3 

•£6  5. 


347 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Table  9.  Agricultural  Production,  1980-85 
(in  thousands  of  tons  unless  otherwise  stated) 


1980-81 

1981-82 

1982-83 

1983-84 

1984-85 

Citrus  fruit   

  1,416 

1,804 

1,530 

1,547 

1,487 

Annlps  anH  othpr  fniit 

227 

201 

239 

181 

161 

84 

88 

95 

Q9 

80 

Bananas 

66 

73 

67 

68 

81 

Avocados 

8 

40 

62 

52 

77 

Wheat 

215 

147 

335 

130 

128 

Hay 

112 

115 

120 

95 

100 

Cotton  fiber   

  92 

88 

93 

88 

99 

  26 

26 

23 

22 

23 

Vegetables  

677 

771 

779 

778 

763 

Potatoes  

218 

207 

206 

198 

204 

Olives   

20 

37 

37 

17 

39 

Melons  and  pumpkins  

133 

118 

122 

131 

132 

Cattle  (beef)   

  56 

56 

58 

58 

61 

Fish  

23 

24 

22 

23 

25 

Poultry   

  210 

229 

250 

269 

244 

Eggs  (in  millions)   

1,531 

1,740 

1,803 

2,026 

2,049 

  682 

726 

756 

797 

788 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Israel,  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Abstract 
of  Israel,  1986,  No.  37,  Jerusalem,  1986,  386-410. 


348 


Appendix  A 


Table  10.  Major  Trading  Partners,  Selected  Years,  1970-86 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


Year 

Belgium/ 
Luxembourg 

Britain 

France 

Italy 

Netherlands 

United 
States 

West 
Germany 

World 

Exports 

1970 

40 

82 

39 

15 

46 

149 

67 

782 

1  Q79 

1  1  3 

113 

j  j 

9Q 

O  J 

994. 

1  03 

1  UJ 

1  1  4.Q 

1974  .  .  , 

92 

157 

91 

67 

136 

306 

135 

1,824 

1976     ,  , 

102 

180 

136 

73 

160 

437 

199 

2,415 

1978 

200 

282 

183 

94 

222 

688 

331 

3,911 

1980  .  .  . 

237 

466 

299 

285 

246 

886 

542 

5,543 

1982 

228 

404 

304 

202 

199 

1,119 

355 

5,287 

1984  .  .  . 

231 

482 

237 

212 

258 

1,645 

360 

5,809 

1986 

266 

512 

313 

275 

309 

2,347 

373 

7,168 

Imports 

1970   

62 

223 

61 

76 

71 

323 

173 

2,079 

1972   

122 

365 

95 

166 

83 

373 

228 

2,472 

1974   

142 

543 

154 

225 

223 

754 

687 

5,440 

1976   

127 

609 

151 

172 

242 

888 

417 

5,669 

1978   

259 

542 

264 

283 

482 

1,126 

594 

7,403 

1980   

405 

673 

270 

315 

190 

1,549 

791 

9,685 

1982   

367 

619 

365 

442 

248 

1,542 

895 

9,025 

1984   

773 

698 

322 

403 

160 

1,772 

944 

9,800 

1986  .  .  .  . 

1,265 

985 

386 

560 

302 

1,789 

1,214 

10,736 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Monetary  Fund,  Direction  of  Trade  Statis- 
tics, 1987. 


349 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Table  11.  Balance  of  Payments  Indicators,  1982-86 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1982  1983  1984  1985  1986 


Exports,  excluding  capital  services  .  . 
Civilian  imports,  excluding 

capital  services   

Trade  balance   

8,792 

10,896 
-2,104 

8,901 

11,634 
-2,733 

9,629 

11,209 
-1,580 

10,195 

10,575 
-380 

11,188 

12,341 
-1,153 

Current  account 

Total  goods  and  services  (net)   .  .  . 

Total  unilateral  transfers   

Current  deficit(-)  or  surplus 
Net  medium-term  and  long-term 

-4,570 
2,616 
-1,954 

1,133 

-4,861 
2,855 
-2,006 

2,349 

-4,816 
3,352 
-1,464 

1,276 

-3,945 
5,043 
1,098 

-35 

-3,966 
5,336 
1,370 

303 

Basic  account  deficit(-) 

or  surplus  1   

-821 

343 

-188 

1,063 

1,673 

Additional  balance  of  payments  data 
Implied  private  capital  imports 

Foreign  reserves,  end-of-year  2    .  .  .  . 

883 
15,641 
4,317 

480 
18,270 
3,780 

-588 
19,686 
3,255 

-1,053 
19,315 
3,793 

-201 
18,998 
4,868 

1  Basic  account  =  current  account,  plus  medium-term  and  long-term  capital  movements. 

2  Held  by  central  monetary  authorities. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Bank  of  Israel,  Annual  Report,  1986,  Jerusalem,  May 
1987,  96-102;  and  Table  VII-17,  Annual  Report,  1986  (in  Hebrew),  Jerusalem,  May 
1987,  202. 


350 


Appendix  A 


Table  12.  Major  Israel  Defense  Forces 
Equipment,  Ground  Forces,  1988 


Type  and  Description  Country  of  Origin  In  Inventory 
Tanks 

Centurion   .   Britain  1,080 

M-48A5    United  States  560 

M-60A1/-A3   -do-  1,300 

T-54/-55    Soviet  Union  250 

T-62    -do-  115 

Merkava  I/II    Israel  550 

Armored  fighting  vehicles 

M-113  personnel  carrier    United  States  4,000 

M-2/-3  halftrack   United  States 

(rebuilt)  4,400 

BTR-50P  personnel  carrier    Soviet  Union  1,900 

Ramta  light  armored  car   Israel  400 

Guns  and  howitzers 

M-101  105mm  howitzer    United  States  70 

M-46  130mm  gun   -do-  110 

Soltam  M-68/-71  and  M-839P/-845P 

155mm  howitzers   Israel  300 

L-33  155mm  howitzer  self-propelled   France,  United 

States  180 

M-50  155mm  howitzer  self-propelled    United  States  75 

M-109  155mm  howitzer  self-propelled    -do-  530 

M-107  175mm  gun  self-propelled    -do-  140 

M-110  203mm  howitzer  self-propelled    -do-  36 

Multiple  rocket  launchers 

BM-21  122mm    Soviet  Union  n.a. 

LAR  160mm  light  artillery  rocket   Israel  n.a. 

MB-24  240mm    Soviet  Union  n.a. 

MAR-290  290mm  self-propelled  medium 

artillery  rocket    Israel  n.a. 

Mortars 

120mm,  160mm,  some  self-propelled    various  n.a. 

Surface-to-surface  missiles 

MGM-52C  Lance   United  States  n.a. 

Jericho  I    Israel  n.a. 

Zeev    -do-  n.a. 

Antitank  weapons 

106mm  recoilless  rifle    United  States  250 

Wire-guided  weapons 

TOW    -do-  n.a. 

M-47  Dragon    -do-  n.a. 

Milan    France  n.a. 

Sagger   Soviet  Union  n.a. 

Mapats  (laser  TOW)    Israel  n.a. 

n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  The  Mili- 
tary Balance,  1988-1989,  London,  1988,  103. 


351 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Table  13.  Major  Israel  Defense  Forces  Equipment,  Navy,  1988 

Type  and  Description  Origin  Commissioned  In  Inventory 
Submarines 

IKL/Vickers  type  540    Britain               1977  3 

Dolphin  class   West  Germany          ordered  3 

Corvettes 

Saar  5,  985  tons    United  States           ordered  3 

Fast-attack  craft 

Saar  4.5  Aliya,  500  tons    Israel                1980-82  2 

Saar  4  Reshef,  415  tons    -do-                1969  8 

Saar  3,  250  tons    France               1969  6 

Saar  2,  250  tons    -do-                1968  6 

Hydrofoils 

Shimrit  (Flagstaff  2)    United  States, 

Israel  1982-85  3 

Coastal  patrol  craft 

Dvora    Israel                1977  1 

Super  Dvora    Israel                1977              (5  ordered) 

Dabur    Israel, 

United  States  n.a.  31 

Amphibious 

Landing  craft  (tank)    Israel                1966-67  6 

Landing  craft  (personnel)    United  States          1976  3 

Aircraft 

Seascan  1124N    Israel                   n.a.  7 

Bell  212  helicopter    United  States             n.a.  25 

n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1988-89,  London,  1988,  279-82. 


352 


Appendix  A 


Table  14.  Major  Israel  Defense  Forces 
Equipment,  Air  Force,  1988 


Type  and  Description 


Country  of 
Origin 


In  Inventory 


Fighter-interceptors 

F- 15  Eagle   United  States  50 

F-4E  Phantom                                                               -do-  113 

Kfir  C2/C7    Israel  95  (75  more 

stored) 

F-16A/B/C/D  Fighting  Falcon    United  States  145 

Fighter,  ground  attack 

A-4H/N  Skyhawk                                                          -do-  121 

Reconnaissance 

RF-4E  Phantom                                                             -do-  14 

Airborne  early  warning 

E-2C  Hawkeye                                                              -do-  4 

Electronic  warfare/command  post 

Boeing  707                                                                    -do-  6 

Transports 

Boeing  707                                                                    -do-  2 

Hercules  C-130E/H                                                        -do-  21 

C-47                                                                         -do-  19 

Boeing  707  (tankers)                                                          -do-  5 

KC-130H  (tankers)                                                        -do-  2 

Arava                                                                              Israel  10 

Training 

TA-4H/J  Skyhawk    United  States  27 

Kfir  TC2                                                                      Israel  10 

F-4E    United  States  16 

CM- 170  Magister/Tzugit    France,  Israel  94 

Attack  helicopters 

Bell  AH- IS  Cobra    United  States  40 

Hughes  500  MD                                                            -do-  40 

Transport  helicopters 

CH-53A/D  (heavy)   United  States  33 

Super  Frelon  SA-321  (medium)                                       France  9 

UH-1D  (medium)   United  States  17 

Bell  206 A,  212  (light)                                                    -do-  104 

Electronic  warfare/sea-air  rescue 

helicopters  Bell  206,  212    United  States  20 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  The  Mili- 
tary Balance,  1988-89,  London  1988,  104  and  Bill  Gunston,  An  Illustrated  Guide  to 
the  Israeli  Air  Force,  Tel  Aviv,  1982,  passim. 


353 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Table  15.  United  States  Military  Aid  to  Israel,  1979-89 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


Year  Grants  Sales  Total 


1979    1,300  2,700  4,000 

1980    500  500  1,000 

1981    500  900  1,400 

1982    550  850  1,400 

1983    750  950  1,700 

1984    850  850  1,700 

1985    1,400  0  1,400 

1986    1,723  0  1,723 

1987    1,800  0  1,800 

1988    1,800  0  1,800 

1989    1,800  (proposed)  0  1,800  (proposed) 


354 


Appendix  B 


Political  Parties  and  Organizations 

Agudat  Israel  (Society  of  Israel) — A  clericalist  political  party  of  ultra- 
Orthodox  Jews,  founded  in  Poland  in  1912  and  established  in 
Palestine  in  the  early  1920s.  In  1949  it  formed  part  of  the  United 
Religious  Front  (q.v.);  in  1955  and  1959  it  joined  Poalei  Agudat 
Israel  to  form  the  Torah  Religious  Front  (q.  v.).  Originally  anti- 
Zionist  and  messianic,  in  the  1980s  this  non-Zionist  party, 
together  with  its  Council  of  Torah  Sages,  still  favored  a  the- 
ocracy and  increased  state  financial  support  for  its  religious  insti- 
tutions. 

Ahdut  HaAvoda  (Unity  of  Labor) — The  party,  founded  in  1919 
as  successor  to  Poalei  Tziyyon  (q.v.),  had  three  separate  exis- 
tences: from  1919  to  1930,  when  it  merged  with  HaPoel 
HaTzair  (q.  v. )  to  form  Mapai  (q.  v.);  in  1944  its  name  was  taken 
over  by  Siah  B  (Bet — Faction  B),  a  faction  that  split  from  Mapai 
and  formed  a  new  party  with  HaKibbutz  HaMeuhad  (United 
Kibbutz  Movement);  and  the  last  beginning  in  1954  when 
Ahdut  HaAvoda  was  reconstituted  by  the  HaKibbutz 
HaMeuhad  faction  when  it  broke  off  from  Mapam  (q.  v. ).  Ahdut 
HaAvoda  was  aligned  with  Mapai  from  1965  to  1968  when 
both  were  absorbed  into  the  Labor  Party. 

Arab  Democratic  Party — An  Israeli  Arab  party  founded  in  1988 
by  Abdel  Wahab  Daroushe,  a  former  Labor  Party  Knesset 
member. 

Betar — A  Revisionist  Zionist  youth  organization  founded  in  1923 
in  Riga,  Latvia,  under  the  influence  of  Jabotinsky;  it  later 
formed  the  nucleus  for  Herut. 

Citizens'  Rights  Movement  (CRM)— Founded  in  1973  by  Shulamit 
Aloni,  a  former  Labor  Party  Knesset  member,  the  CRM  ad- 
vocates strengthening  civil  rights  in  Israel  and  greater  com- 
promise on  Israeli-Palestinian  issues. 

Degel  HaTorah  (Torah  Flag) — Formed  in  1988,  the  clericalist  party 
is  a  Shas  (q.  v.  )-led  Ashkenazi  spinoff  among  the  ultra-Orthodox 
community. 

Democratic  Movement  for  Change  (DMC) — Founded  in  1976  by 
Yigal  Yadin  and  several  other  groups,  of  which  the  principal 
one  was  Shinui  (q.v.).  It  broke  up  in  1979  when  Shinui  left 
over  the  issue  of  continued  participation  in  the  Likud 
government. 


355 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Free  Center — A  faction  that  splintered  from  Herut  (q.v.)  in  1967. 
From  1967  to  1973,  the  Free  Center  was  a  party  in  its  own 
right.  It  became  a  faction  in  Likud  (q.v.)  from  1973  to  1977 
and  joined  the  Democratic  Movement  for  Change  in  1977.  Its 
principal  leader  was  Shmuel  Tamir. 

Gahal  (Acronym  for  Gush  Herut- Liberalim,  Freedom-Liberal  Bloc; 
also  known  as  Herut-Liberal  Bloc) — A  political  coalition  list 
created  in  1965  by  an  electoral  combination  of  the  Liberal  Party 
(q.v.)  and  Herut  (q.v.)  to  compete  against  the  1965  and  1969 
Mapai  (q.v.)-led  electoral  alignments.  In  1967  on  the  eve  of 
the  outbreak  of  the  Arab-Israeli  War,  Gahal  joined  a  National 
Unity  Government;  in  1973  Gahal  became  part  of  the  Likud 
Bloc  (q.v.). 

Gush  Emunim  (Bloc  of  the  Faithful) — A  militant  right-wing  ex- 
tremist religio-nationalist  settlement  movement  that  seeks  to 
impose  Israeli  sovereignty  on  the  West  Bank. 

HaPoel  HaMizrahi  (Spiritual  Center  Worker) — Orthodox  religious 
workers'  movement  founded  in  Palestine  in  1922  by  a  left-wing 
faction  of  Mizrahi  (q.v.).  In  1956  it  joined  Mizrahi  to  form  the 
National  Religious  Party  (q.v.). 

HaPoel  HaTzair  (The  Young  Worker) — A  Labor  Zionist  politi- 
cal party  founded  and  active  in  Palestine  from  1905  to  1930. 

Herut  (Abbreviation  for  Tnuat  HaHerut,  or  Freedom  Move- 
ment)— Right-wing  political  party  founded  by  remnants  of  the 
Irgun  (see  Glossary),  following  its  disbandment  in  1948.  It  was 
led  by  former  Irgun  commander  Menachem  Begin  and  is  the 
direct  ideological  descendant  of  Revisionist  Zionism  (q.v.).  In 
the  1980s,  Herut  was  the  dominant  component  in  the  Likud 
Bloc  (q.v.). 

Laam  (For  the  Nation) — A  party  established  in  1968  by  remnants 
of  Rafi  (q.v.),  which  allied  itself  with  Gahal.  In  1973  it  com- 
bined with  the  State  List  and  followers  of  the  Movement  for 
Greater  Israel  to  become  a  faction  in  Likud  (q.v.). 

Labor  Party — The  Labor  Party,  founded  in  1968,  resulted  from 
the  merger  of  Mapai  (q.v.),  Ahdut  HaAvoda  (q.v.),  and  Rafi 
(q.v.).  Representation  in  top  Labor  Party  institutions  was  based 
on  a  proportion  of  57.3  percent  for  Mapai  and  21.3  percent 
for  each  of  the  other  two.  This  factional  system  broke  down 
following  the  ascension  to  power  in  June  1974  of  the  younger 
generation  triumvirate  of  Yitzhak  Rabin,  Shimon  Peres,  and 
Yigal  Allon,  who  were  less  tied  to  the  former  factions.  Follow- 
ing the  1984  Knesset  elections,  the  Labor  Party  assumed  an 
independent  existence  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Maarakh 


356 


Appendix  B 


(q.  v. )  when  it  went  into  the  National  Unity  Government  with 
Likud. 

Labor  Zionism — Zionist  movements  and  parties  committed  to  the 
development  of  a  democratic-socialist  political  economy  in 
Israel. 

Liberal  Party — The  second  major  component  in  the  Likud  Bloc; 
a  middle-class  party  formed  in  1961  from  the  merger  of  the 
Progressives  and  General  Zionists. 

Likud  or  Likud  Bloc  (Union) — The  Likud  Bloc  was  founded  in 
preparation  for  the  1973  elections  when  the  Free  Center  (q.v.) 
and  Laam  (q.v.)  joined  Gahal  (q.v.).  In  1984  Likud  formed  the 
National  Unity  Government  with  the  Labor  Party  (q.v.). 

Maarakh  (Alignment) — An  electoral  and  parliamentary  alignment 
on  the  national  and  municipal  levels  between  the  Labor  Party 
and  Mapam,  from  1969  to  1984. 

Maki  (Acronym  for  Miflaga  Kommunistit  Yisraelit,  or  Communist 
Party  of  Israel) — The  party  was  founded  in  1949.  In  1965  it 
broke  into  two  factions:  Maki  and  Rakah  (q.v.).  Maki  continued 
to  have  as  members  primarily  Jewish  communists.  The  elec- 
toral list  of  Maki  and  Rakah,  which  joined  in  the  1973  elec- 
tions, was  called  Moked  (Focus).  In  1977  Maki  joined  with 
several  other  groups  to  create  Shelli  (acronym  for  Peace  for 
Israel  and  Equality  for  Israel),  a  party  that  disbanded  before 
the  1984  elections. 

Mapai  (acronym  for  Mifleget  Poalei  Eretz  Yisrael-Israel  Workers' 
Party) — Mapai  resulted  from  the  1930  merger  between  the 
main  prestate  Labor  Zionist  parties,  Ahdut  HaAvoda  (q.v.)  and 
HaPoel  HaTzair  (q.v.).  In  1920  the  two  parties  together  had 
founded  the  Histadrut.  In  1944  a  small  left-wing  kibbutz-based 
faction  seceded  from  Mapai  and  reconstituted  itself  as  Ahdut 
HaAvoda-Poalei  Tziyyon  (Unity  of  Labor- Workers  of  Zion). 
Nevertheless,  Mapai  became  the  dominant  party  in  the  Yishuv 
and  later  in  Israel;  after  1968  it  was  the  dominant  faction  in 
the  Labor  Party. 

Mapam  (Acronym  for  Mifleget  Poalim  Meuchedet-United 
Workers'  Party) — Mapam  resulted  in  January  1948  from  the 
merger  of  two  Labor  Zionist  kibbutz-based  parties,  HaShomer 
HaTzair  (The  Young  Watchman,  which  had  been  founded  in 
1913  as  a  youth  movement  and  became  a  political  party  in  1946) 
and  Ahdut  HaAvoda-Poalei  Tziyyon.  The  party  also  contained 
remnants  of  the  former  Poalei  Tziyyon  (q.v.).  Mapam  split  in 
1954,  with  former  members  of  HaShomer  HaTzair  remain- 
ing, while  former  members  of  Ahdut  HaAvoda-Poalei  Tziyyon 
left  to  form  Ahdut  HaAvoda  (q.  v.).  The  formation  of  the  Labor 


357 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Party  in  1968  caused  Mapam  to  reverse  its  previous  opposi- 
tion to  unity  among  Labor  Zionist  parties  and  to  join  an  elec- 
toral alliance  (Maarakh — Alignment)  with  the  Labor  Party  in 
1969.  There  was  much  criticism  within  Mapam  that,  as  the 
junior  partner  of  the  Alignment,  the  party  seemed  excessively 
subservient  to  Labor's  status-quo  oriented  policies,  particularly 
on  the  issue  of  the  future  of  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip. 
Mapam  broke  away  from  the  Alignment  and  resumed  its  in- 
dependent existence  in  the  fall  of  1984,  when  the  Labor  Party 
decided  to  join  Likud  (q.  v. )  in  forming  the  National  Unity 
Government. 

Mizrahi  (Spiritual  Center) — Established  in  1902  as  an  Orthodox 
religious  Zionist  party.  In  1949  Mizrahi  became  part  of  the 
United  Religious  Front.  In  1956  it  joined  HaPoel  HaMizrahi 
(q.v.)  to  form  the  National  Religious  Party  (q.v.). 

Moledet  (Homeland) — An  extremist  right-wing  ultranationalist 
party  founded  in  1988  by  a  retired  Israel  Defense  Forces  (IDF) 
general,  Rehavam  (Gandhi)  Zeevi. 

Morasha  (Heritage) — A  religio-nationalist  party  led  by  Rabbi 
Chaim  Druckman  that  broke  away  from  the  National  Religious 
Party  (q.v.)  in  1984.  In  1986  it  was  reincorporated  into  the  Na- 
tional Religious  Party. 

National  Religious  Party  (NRP)  (also  known  as  Mafdal — acronym 
for  HaMiflagah  HaDatit-Leumit)— The  NRP  was  formed 
in  1956  with  the  merger  of  two  Orthodox  parties:  HaPoel 
HaMizrahi  (q.  v. )  and  Mizrahi  (q.  v.).  From  the  founding  of  the 
state  in  1948  to  1977,  the  NRP  (or  its  predecessors)  was  the 
ally  of  the  Labor  Party  (or  its  predecessors)  in  forming  Labor- 
led  coalition  governments;  in  return  the  NRP  was  awarded  con- 
trol of  the  Ministry  of  Religious  Affairs.  In  1981  the  NRP's 
electoral  support  declined  from  its  traditional  twelve  seats  to 
six  as  a  result  of  the  formation  of  Tami  (q.  v. )  and  Tehiya  (q.  v.). 
In  1984  the  NRP  suffered  a  further  decline  of  two  seats  with 
the  formation  of  Morasha  (q.v.)  by  a  former  NRP  faction. 

Peace  Now — A  movement  established  after  the  October  1973  War, 
advocating  territorial  compromise  over  the  West  Bank  and  the 
Gaza  Strip  in  order  to  achieve  peaceful  relations  with  the  Pales- 
tinian Arabs  and  the  Arab  states. 

Poalei  Tziyyon  (Workers  of  Zion) — A  Marxist  Labor  Zionist  party 
founded  in  Palestine  in  1906;  in  1919  it  was  incorporated  into 
the  original  Ahdut  HaAvoda. 

Progressive  National  Movement  (also  known  as  Progressive  List 
for  Peace) — The  joint  Arab-Jewish  party  was  established  in  1984 


358 


Appendix  B 


and  advocated  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  state  along- 
side Israel. 

Rafi  (Israel  Labor  List) — The  party  was  created  in  1965  when 
David  Ben-Gurion  and  some  of  his  supporters  broke  away  from 
Mapai.  In  1968  most  of  the  party's  activists  (except  for  Ben- 
Gurion)  returned,  and  together  with  Mapai  and  Ahdut 
HaAvoda,  formed  the  Labor  Party. 

Rakah  (New  Communist  List) — The  communist  party  created  by 
a  faction  that  broke  off  in  1965  from  Maki  (q.v.)  (Communist 
Party  of  Israel).  In  the  1973  elections  Rakah  and  Maki  created 
a  joint  electoral  list  called  Moked  (Focus).  Rakah  consisted 
primarily  of  Arab  communists  and  participated  in  the  1988 
elections. 

Revisionist  Zionism — A  right-wing  Zionist  party  and  movement 
founded  in  1925  by  Vladimir  Jabotinsky;  it  demanded  a  revi- 
sion of  the  conciliatory  policy  by  the  Zionist  Executive  toward 
the  British  mandatory  government. 

Shas  (Sephardic  Torah  Guardians) — A  clericalist  and  theocratic 
party  formed  in  1984  by  former  Agudat  Israel  (q.v.)  members 
to  represent  the  interests  of  the  ultra-Orthodox  Sephardim. 

Shelli  (Acronym  for  Peace  for  Israel  and  Equality  for  Israel) — A 
party  created  in  1977  by  Maki  (q.v.)  and  several  other  groups. 
It  disbanded  before  the  1984  elections. 

Shinui  (Change) — Founded  by  Amnon  Rubenstein  in  1973  as  a 
protest  movement  against  the  October  1973  War.  In  1976,  in 
preparation  for  the  May  1977  elections,  Shinui  joined  with  other 
groups  to  create  the  Democratic  Movement  for  Change  (DMC), 
led  by  Yigal  Yadin.  In  1979  Shinui  broke  away  from  the  DMC 
and  created  its  own  political  party.  In  the  1988  elections  its 
Knesset  representation  declined  from  three  to  two  seats. 

Tami  (Traditional  Movement  of  Israel) — Established  in  1981  by 
an  Oriental  faction  within  the  National  Religious  Party  (q.  v. ) 
led  by  former  Minister  of  Religious  Affairs  Aharon  Abuhat- 
zeira  to  represent  the  interests  of  Sephardim.  In  1988  Tami 
became  a  faction  in  the  Likud  Bloc  (q.v.). 

Tehiya  (Renaissance) — A  right-wing  religio-nationalist  group  that 
broke  away  from  the  National  Religious  Party  (q.v.)  in  1981. 
The  party  advocates  the  eventual  imposition  of  Israeli  sover- 
eignty over  the  West  Bank,  accompanied  by  the  transfer  to  the 
Arab  countries  of  its  Palestinian  Arab  inhabitants. 

Torah  Religious  Front — Formed  by  Agudat  Israel  (q.  v. )  and  Poalei 
Agudat  Israel  (Workers'  Society  of  Israel)  to  campaign  in  the 
1955  and  1959  elections.  The  front  excluded  the  two  Mizrahi 
religious  parties,  claiming  they  were  insufficiently  committed 


359 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


to  the  concept  of  a  Torah  state.  The  Torah  Religious  Front 
was  dissolved  prior  to  the  1961  elections. 

United  Religious  Front — Electoral  alliance  created  in  1949  com- 
posed of  the  four  religious  parties:  Mizrahi  (q.v.),  HaPoel 
HaMizrahi  (q.v.),  Poalei  Agudat  Israel  (Workers'  Society  of 
Israel),  and  Agudat  Israel  (q.v.).  As  of  1951  the  four  parties 
campaigned  separately. 

Yahad  (Together) — An  electoral  list  formed  by  Ezer  Weizman  in 
1981;  in  1984  it  joined  the  Labor  Party  as  a  faction. 


360 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Abu  Lughod,  Ibrahim  (ed.).  The  Transformation  of  Palestine.  Evan- 
ston,  Illinois:  Northwestern  University  Press,  1971. 

Allon,  Yigal.  "Israel:  The  Case  for  Defensible  Borders,"  Foreign 
Affairs,  55,  No.  1,  1976,  38-53. 

Alpher,  Joseph.  "Why  Begin  Should  Invite  Arafat  to  Jerusalem," 
Foreign  Affairs,  60,  No.  5,  1982,  1110-23. 

Antonius,  George.  The  Arab  Awakening.  London:  Hamish  Hamil- 
ton, 1955. 

Arendt,  Hannah.  Antisemitism.  New  York:  Harcourt  Brace 
Jovanovich,  1951. 

Aronoff,  Myron.  "The  Decline  of  the  Israeli  Labor  Party:  Causes 
and  Significance."  Pages  115-47  in  Howard  Penniman  (ed.), 
Israel  at  the  Polls,  1977.  Washington:  American  Enterprise  Insti- 
tute, 1979. 

Aronson,  Geoffrey.  "Israel's  Policy  of  Military  Occupation, "  Jour- 
nal of  Palestine  Studies,  7,  No.  4,  1978,  79-98. 

Avineri,  Shlomo.  "Beyond  Camp  David,"  Foreign  Policy,  46,  1982, 
19-36. 

 The  Making  of  Modern  Zionism:  The  Intellectual  Origins  of  the 

Jewish  State.  New  York:  Basic  Books,  1981. 

 "Peacemaking:  The  Arab-Israel  Conflict, ' '  Foreign  Affairs, 

57,  No.  1,  1978,  51-69. 

Avishai,  Bernard.  The  Tragedy  of  Zionism:  Revolution  and  Democracy 
in  the  Land  of  Israel.  New  York:  Farrer  Straus  Giroux,  1985. 

Ball,  George  W.  "The  Coming  Crisis  in  Israeli-American  Rela- 
tions," Foreign  Affairs,  58,  No.  2,  1979-80,  231-56. 

Baron,  S.  A  Social  and  Religious  History  of  the  Jews.  (18  Vols.)  New 
York:  Columbia  University  Press,  1952-1983. 

Bar-Simon  Tov,  Yaacov.  The  Israeli- Egyptian  War  of  Attrition, 
1969-70.  New  York:  Columbia  University  Press,  1980. 

Begin,  Menachem.  The  Revolt:  The  Dramatic  Inside  Story  of  the  Irgun. 
Los  Angeles:  Nash,  1972. 

Ben-Gurion,  David.  Israel:  A  Personal  History.  New  York:  Funk  and 
Wagnalls,  1971. 

Ben-Sasson,  H.  H.  (ed.).  A  History  of  the  Jewish  People.  Cambridge: 
Harvard  University  Press,  1976. 

Benvenisti,  Meron.  The  West  Bank  and  Gaza  Data  Base  Project:  In- 
terim Report,  No.  1.  Washington:  American  Enterprise  Institute, 
1982. 


361 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

 .  The  West  Bank  Data  Project:  A  Survey  of  Israel's  Policies. 

Washington:  American  Enterprise  Institute,  1984. 
Brookings  Institution.  Toward  Peace  in  the  Middle  East:  Report  of  a 

Study  Group.  Washington:  Brookings  Institution,  1975. 
Bullocks,  John.  The  Making  of  a  War:  The  Middle  East  from  1967  to 

1973.  London:  Longman,  1974. 
Cohen,  Michael  J.  The  Origins  and  Evolution  of  the  Arab -Zionist  Con- 
flict. Berkeley  and  Los  Angeles:  University  of  California  Press, 

1987. 

 .  Palestine:  Retreat  from  the  Mandate:  The  Making  of  British  Policy, 

1936-1945.  New  York:  Holmes  and  Meier,  1978. 

 "Sir  Arthur  Wanchope,  the  Army,  and  the  Rebellion  in 

Palestine,  1936,"  Middle  Eastern  Studies,  9,  No.  1,  January  1973, 
19-34. 

Dawidowicz,  Lucy.  "Toward  a  History  of  the  Holocaust,"  Com- 
mentary, 47,  No.  4,  1969,  51-58. 

Day  an,  Moshe.  Breakthrough:  A  Personal  Account  of  the  Egypt- Israel  Peace 
Negotiations.  New  York:  Knopf,  1981. 

Dubnow,  Simon.  History  of  the  Jews  in  Russia  and  Poland,  III.  Philadel- 
phia: Jewish  Publication  Society,  1946. 

Eban,  Abba.  Abba  Eban:  An  Autobiography.  London:  Weidenfeld  and 
Nicholson,  1978. 

 "Camp  David:  the  Unfinished  Business,"  Foreign  Affairs, 

57,  No.  2,  1978-79,  343-54. 

Elazar,  Daniel  J.  (ed.).  Judea,  Samaria,  and  Gaza:  Views  on  the  Fu- 
ture. Washington:  American  Enterprise  Institute,  1981. 

Elon,  Amos.  Herzl.  London:  Weidenfeld  and  Nicholson,  1976. 

 The  Israelis:  Founders  and  Sons.  New  York:  Penguin,  1983. 

Encyclopaedia  Judaica.  Jerusalem  and  New  York:  Macmillan, 
1971-72. 

Eytan,  Walter.  The  First  Ten  Years:  A  Diplomatic  History  of  Israel. 

New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1958. 
Fackenheim,  Emil.  The  Jewish  Return  into  History:  Reflections  in  the 

Age  of  Auschwitz.  New  York:  Schocken  Books,  1978. 
Fein,  Leonard.  Israel:  Politics  and  People.  Boston:  Little,  Brown,  1968. 
Flapan,  Simha.  The  Birth  of  Israel:  Myths  and  Realities.  New  York: 

Pantheon  Books,  1987. 
Freedman,  Robert  (ed.).  Israel  in  the  Begin  Era.  New  York:  Praeger, 

1982. 

Goldman,  Nahum.  "Zionist  Ideology  and  the  Reality  of  Israel," 

Foreign  Affairs,  57,  No.  1,  1978,  70-82. 
Halabi,  Rafik.   West  Bank  Story.   New  York:  Harcourt  Brace 

Jovanovich,  1982. 


362 


Bibliography 


Halpern,  Ben.  The  Idea  of  a  Jewish  State.  (2d  ed.).  Cambridge: 

Harvard  University  Press,  1976. 
Harkabi,  Yehoshafat.  Palestine  and  Israel.  New  York:  Halsted  Press, 

1974. 

Heller,  Mark.  " Begin 's  False  Autonomy,"  Foreign  Policy,  37, 

1979-80,  111-32. 
Hertzberg,  Arthur.  The  Zionist  Idea:  A  Historical  Analysis  and  Reader. 

New  York:  Atheneum,  1969. 
Herzog,  Chaim.  The  Arab-Israeli  Wars.  London:  Arms  and  Armour 

Press,  1982. 

Horowitz,  Dan  and  Moshe  Lissak.  Origins  of  the  Israeli  Polity:  Pales- 
tine under  the  Mandate.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1978. 

Hurewitz,  J.C.  The  Struggle  for  Palestine.  New  York:  Norton,  1950. 

Israel  Pocket  Library.  Jerusalem:  Keter  Books,  1973-74. 

Jiryis,  Sabri.  The  Arabs  in  Israel.  (Trans.,  Inea  Bushnaq.)  New  York: 
Monthly  Review  Press,  1976. 

 "Secrets  of  State:  An  Analysis  of  the  Diaries  of  Moshe 

Sharett,"  Journal  of  Palestine  Studies,  10,  No.  1,  1980,  35-57. 

Johnson,  Paul.  A  History  of  the  Jews.  New  York:  Harper  and  Row, 
1987. 

Kedourie,  Elie.  "Sir  Herbert  Samuel  and  the  Government  of  Pales- 
tine," Middle  Eastern  Studies  [London],  5,  No.  1,  1969,  44-68. 

 .  "Sir  Mark  Sykes  and  Palestine,  1915-1916,"  Middle 

Eastern  Studies  [London],  6,  No.  3,  1970,  340-45. 

 Zionism  and  Arabism  in  Palestine  and  Israel.  London:  Cass, 

1982. 

Kedourie,  Elie,  and  Sylvia  Haim  (eds.).  Palestine  and  Israel  in  the 
19th  and  20th  Centuries.  London:  Cass,  1982. 

Khalidi,  Walid  (ed.).  From  Haven  to  Conquest.  Beirut:  Institute  of 
Palestine  Studies,  1971. 

Khouri,  Fred  J.  The  Arab -Israeli  Dilemma.  (2d  ed.)  Syracuse,  New 
York:  Syracuse  University  Press,  1976. 

Kimche,  David.  The  Sandstorm:  The  Arab- Israeli  Wars  of  1967.  New 
York:  Stein  and  Day,  1968. 

Klieman,  Aaron  S.  Statecraft  in  the  Dark.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1988. 

Laqueur,  Walter.  A  History  of  Zionism.  New  York:  Holt,  Rinehart, 
and  Winston,  1972. 

Lesch,  Ann  Mosley.  Arab  Politics  in  Palestine,  1917-1939:  The  Frus- 
tration of  a  Nationalist  Movement.  Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press, 
1979. 

Lewis,  Bernard.  "The  Arab-Israeli  War:  The  Consequences  of 
Defeat,"  Foreign  Affairs,  46,  No.  2,  1968,  321-35. 


363 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


 .  '  'The  Emergence  of  Modern  Israel, ' '  Middle  Eastern  Studies 

[London],  8,  No.  3,  1972,  421-27. 
Louis,  William  Roger.  The  British  Empire  in  the  Middle  East,  1945-51. 

Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press,  1984. 
Lucas,  Noah.  The  Modern  History  of  Israel.  London:  Weidenfeld  and 

Nicholson,  1974. 
Lustick,  Ian.  Arabs  in  the  Jewish  State.  Austin:  University  of  Texas 

Press,  1980. 

 .  For  the  Land  and  the  Lord:  Jewish  Fundamentalism  in  Israel. 

New  York:  Council  on  Foreign  Relations,  1988. 
 .  "Kill  the  Autonomy  Talks,''  Foreign  Policy,  41,  1980-81, 

21-43. 

Mandel,  Neville  J.  The  Arabs  and  Zionism  Before  World  War  I.  Berke- 
ley and  Los  Angeles:  University  of  California  Press,  1976. 

Monroe,  Elizabeth.  Britain's  Moment  in  the  Middle  East.  London: 
Chatto  and  Windus,  1981. 

Morris,  Benny.  Birth  of  the  Palestinian  Refugee  Problem.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1987. 

O'Brien,  Connor  Cruise.  The  Siege:  The  Saga  of  Israel  and  Zionism. 
New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1986. 

Patai,  Raphael  (ed.).  Encyclopedia  of  Zionism  and  Israel.  New  York: 
Herzl  Press,  1971. 

Peretz,  Don,  "The  Arab  Minority  of  Israel,"  Middle  East  Journal, 
8,  No.  2,  1954,  139-54. 

 .  "The  Earthquake:  Israel's  9th  Knesset  Election,"  Mid- 
dle East  Journal,  31,  No.  3,  1977,  251-66. 

 .  "The  War  Election  and  Israel's  8th  Knesset, ' '  Middle  East 

Journal,  28,  No.  2,  1974,  111-25. 

Peretz,  Don,  and  Sammy  Smooha.  "Israel's  10th  Knesset  Elec- 
tions: Ethnic  Upsurgence  and  Decline  of  Ideology,"  Middle  East 
Journal,  35,  No.  4,  1981,  506-26. 

Peri,  Yoram.  Between  Battles  and  Ballots:  Israeli  Military  in  Politics. 
New  York:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1983. 

Perlmutter,  Amos.  "Begin's  Rhetoric  and  Sharon's  Tactics,"  For- 
eign Affairs,  61,  No.  1,  1982,  67-83. 

 .  "Begin's  Strategy  and  Dayan's  Tactics:  The  Conduct  of 

Israeli  Foreign  Policy,"  Foreign  Affairs ,  56,  No.  4,  1978,  357-72. 

 "Cleavage  in  Israel,"  Foreign  Policy,  27,  1977,  136-57. 

 .  "A  Race  Against  time:  The  Egyptian-Israeli  Negotiations 

over  the  Future  of  Palestine,"  Foreign  Affairs,  57,  No.  5,  1979, 
987-1004. 

Porath,  Yehoshua.  The  Emergence  of  the  Palestine-Arab  Nationalist  Move- 
ment, 1918-1929.  London:  Cass,  1974. 


364 


Bibliography 


Quandt,  William  B.  Decade  of  Decision:  American  Policy  Toward  the 
Arab-Israeli  Conflict.  Berkeley  and  Los  Angeles:  University  of 
California  Press,  1977. 

Quandt,  William  B.,  Fuad  Jabber,  and  Ann  Lesch.  Politics  of  Pales- 
tinian Nationalism.  Berkeley  and  Los  Angeles:  University  of 
California  Press,  1973. 

Rabinovich,  Itamar.  The  War  for  Lebanon:  1970-1983.  Ithaca:  Cor- 
nell University  Press,  1984. 

Rafael,  Gideon.  Destination  Peace:  Three  Decades  of  Israeli  Foreign  Policy. 
New  York:  Stein  and  Day,  1981. 

Randal,  Jonathan  C.  Going  All  the  Way:  Christian  Warlords,  Israeli  Ad- 
venturers, and  the  War  in  Lebanon.  New  York:  Vintage  Books,  1983. 

Reich,  Bernard.  "Israel  Between  War  and  Peace,"  Current  History, 
66,  No.  390,  1974,  49-52. 

Rodinson,  Maxine.  Israel  and  the  Arabs.  (2d  ed.)  London:  Penguin, 
1982. 

Roth,  Stephen  J.  (ed.).  The  Impact  of  the  Six-Day  War.  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press  and  Institute  of  Jewish  Affairs,  1988. 

Sachar,  Howard  M.  The  Course  of  Modern  Jewish  History.  New  York: 
World,  1958L. 

 .  A  History  of  Israel,  I:  From  the  Rise  of  Zionism  to  Our  Time. 

New  York:  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  1986. 
 .  A  History  of  Israel,  II:  From  the  Aftermath  of  the  Yom  Kippur 

War.  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press,  1987. 
Sadat,  Anwar.  In  Search  of  Identity:  An  Autobiography.  New  York: 

Harper  and  Row,  1978. 
Safran,  Nadav.  The  Embattled  Ally .  Cambridge:  Harvard  Univer- 
sity Press,  1978. 
 .  From  War  to  War:  The  Arab-Israeli  Confrontation,  1948-1967. 

New  York:  Pegasus,  1969. 
Said,  Edward  W.  The  Question  of  Palestine.  London:  Routledge  and 

Kegan  Paul,  1981. 
Sanders,  Ronald.  The  High  Walls  of  Jerusalem.  New  York:  Holt, 

Rinehart,  and  Winston,  1983. 
Schiff,  Zeev,  and  Ehud  Ya'ari.  Israel's  Lebanon  War.  New  York: 

Simon  and  Schuster,  1984. 
Segev,  Tom.  1949:  The  First  Israelis.  New  York:  Free  Press,  1986. 
Shapiro,  Yonathan.  The  Formative  Years  of  the  Israeli  Labor  Party.  Los 

Angeles:  Sage,  1976. 
Shimoni,  Yaacov,  and  Evyatar  Levine  (eds.).  Political  Dictionary  of 

the  Middle  East  in  the  20th  Century.  New  York:  Quadrangle,  1974. 
Shlaim,  Avi.  Collusion  Across  the  Jordan:  King  Abdullah,  the  Zionists, 

and  the  Partition  of  Palestine.  New  York:  Columbia  University  Press, 

1988. 


365 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Smooha,  Sammy.  Israel:  Pluralism  and  Conflict.  Berkeley  and  Los 

Angeles:  University  of  California  Press,  1978. 
Stein,  Kenneth  W.  The  Land  Question  in  Palestine,  1917-1939.  Chapel 

Hill:  University  of  North  Carolina  Press,  1984. 
Sykes,  Christopher.  Crossroads  to  Israel.  Bloomington:  Indiana 

University  Press,  1973. 
Teveth,  Shabtai.  Ben-Gurion  and  the  Palestinian  Arabs:  From  Peace  to 

War.  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press,  1985. 
Tillman,  Seth  P.  The  United  States  in  the  Middle  East:  Interests  and 

Obstacles.  Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1982. 
Vital,  David.  The  Origins  of  Zionism.  Oxford:  Oxford  University 

Press,  1975. 

 .  Zionism,  The  Formative  Years.  Oxford:  Oxford  University 

Press,  1982. 

Weizman,  Ezer.  The  Battle  for  Peace.  New  York:  Bantam  Books, 
1981. 


Chapter  2 

Abramov,  S.  Zalman.  Perpetual  Dilemma:  Jewish  Religion  in  the  Jew- 
ish State.  Rutherford,  New  Jersey:  Fairleigh  Dickinson  Univer- 
sity Press,  1976. 

Al-Haj,  Majid.  "Ethnic  Relations  in  an  Arab  Town  in  Israel." 
Pages  105-32  in  Alex  Weingrod  (ed.),  Studies  in  Israel's  Ethnici- 
ty: After  the  Ingathering.  New  York:  Gordon  and  Breach,  1985. 

Aronoff,  Myron  J.  Frontiertown:  The  Politics  of  Community  Building 
in  Israel.  Manchester  (United  Kingdom):  Manchester  Univer- 
sity Press,  1973. 

 .  "Political  Polarization:  Contradictory  Interpretation  of 

Israeli  Reality."  Pages  53-77  in  Steven  Heydemann  (ed.),  Issues 
in  Contemporary  Israel:  The  Begin  Era.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1984. 

Aviad,  Janet.  Return  to  Jordan:  Religious  Renewal  in  Israel.  Chicago: 
University  of  Chicago  Press,  1983. 

Avruch,  Kevin.  American  Immigrants  in  Israel:  Social  Identities  and 
Change.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1981. 

 "Gush  Emunim:  Politics,  Religion,  and  Ideology  in 

Israel,"  Middle  East  Review,  11,  No.  2,  1978,  26-31. 

 .  "The  Emergence  of  Ethnicity  in  Israel,"  American  Ethnolo- 
gist, 14,  No.  2,  1987,  327-39. 

 "Traditionalizing  Israel's  Nationalism:  The  Development 

of  Gush  Emunim,"  Political  Psychology,  1,  No.  1,  1979,  47-57. 


366 


Bibliography 


Ben-Dor,  Gabriel.  The  Druzes  in  Israel:  A  Political  Study.  Jerusalem: 

Hebrew  University  Press,  1979. 
Ben-Rafael,  Eliezer.  "Social  Mobility  and  Ethnic  Awareness:  The 

Israeli  Case."  Pages  57-79  in  Alex  Weingrod  (ed.),  Studies  in 

Israeli  Ethnicity:  After  the  Ingathering.  New  York:  Gordon  and 

Breach,  1985. 

Ben-Zadok,  Efraim.  "The  Limits  of  the  Politics  of  Planning."  Pages 
141-52  in  David  Newman  (ed.),  The  Impact  of  Gush  Emunim:  Poli- 
tics and  Settlement  in  the  West  Bank.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press, 
1985. 

Benvenisti,  Meron.  The  West  Bank  Data  Project:  A  Survey  of  Israel's 
Policies.  Washington:  American  Enterprise  Institute,  1984. 

 .  West  Bank  Data  Project,  1986  Report:  Demographic,  Economic, 

Legal,  Social,  and  Political  Developments  in  the  West  Bank.  Washing- 
ton: American  Enterprise  Institute,  1986. 

Bradley,  C.  Paul.  Parliamentary  Elections  in  Israel:  Three  Case  Studies. 
Grantham,  New  Hampshire:  Tompson  and  Rutter,  1985. 

Cohen,  Erik.  "The  Black  Panthers  and  Israeli  Society,"  Jewish 
Journal  of  Sociology,  14,  No.  1,  1972,  93-109. 

 "Ethnicity  and  Legitimation  in  Contemporary  Israel," 

Jerusalem  Quarterly  [Jerusalem],  28,  1983,  11-124. 

Deshen,  Shlomo.  "Israeli  Judaism:  Introduction  to  the  Major  Pat- 
terns," International  Journal  of  Middle  East  Studies,  9,  1978,  141-69. 

Deshen,  Shlomo,  and  Moshe  Shokeid.  The  Predicament  of  Homecom- 
ing: Cultural  and  Social  Life  of  North  African  Immigrants  in  Israel. 
Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press,  1974. 

Divine,  Donna  R.  "Political  Legitimacy  in  Israel:  How  Impor- 
tant is  the  State?"  International  Journal  of  Middle  East  Studies,  10, 
No.  2,  1979,  205-24. 

Don-Yehiya,  Eliezer.  "The  Resolution  of  Religious  Conflicts  in 
Israel."  Pages  203-18  in  Stuart  A.  Cohen  and  Eliezer  Don- 
Yehiya  (eds.),  Conflict  and  Consensus  in  Jewish  Public  Life.  Ramat 
Gan,  Israel:  Bar-Ilan  University  Press,  1986. 

Eisenstadt,  S.  N.  Israeli  Society.  New  York:  Basic  Books,  1967. 

 The  Transformation  of  Israeli  Society.  Boulder,  Colorado: 

Westview  Press,  1985. 

Elazar,  Daniel  J.  Israel:  Building  a  New  Society.  Bloomington:  Indi- 
ana University  Press,  1986. 

Elon,  Amos.  The  Israelis:  Founders  and  Sons.  New  York:  Penguin, 
1983. 

Friedman,  Menachem.  "The  NRP  in  Transition — Behind  the 
Party's  Electoral  Decline."  Pages  141-68  in  D.  Caspi,  A.  Dis- 
kin,  and  E.  Guttman  (eds.),  The  Roots  of  Begin' s  Success.  Lon- 
don: Croom-Helm,  1983. 


367 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Gitelman,  Zvi.  Becoming  Israelis:  Political  Resocialization  of  Soviet  and 
American  Immigrants.  New  York:  Praeger,  1982. 

Goldberg,  Harvey  E.  Cave  Dwellers  and  Citrus  Growers:  A  Jewish  Com- 
munity in  Libya  and  Israel.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University 
Press,  1972. 

 "Historical  and  Cultural  Dimensions  of  Ethnic  Phenom- 
ena in  Israel."  Pages  179-200  in  Alex  Weingrod  (ed.),  Studies 
in  Israeli  Ethnicity:  After  the  Ingathering.  New  York:  Gordon  and 
Breach,  1985. 

Goldstein,  Judith  L.  "Iranian  Ethnicity  in  Israel:  The  Performance 
of  Identity."  Pages  237-57  in  Alex  Weingrod  (ed.),  Studies  in 
Israeli  Ethnicity:  After  the  Ingathering.  New  York:  Gordon  and 
Breach,  1985. 

Grose,  Peter.  A  Changing  Israel.  New  York:  Vintage  Books,  1985. 

Halpern,  Ben.  The  Idea  of  the  Jewish  State.  (2d  ed.)  Cambridge:  Har- 
vard University  Press,  1969. 

Heller,  Mark.  "Politics  and  Social  Change  in  the  West  Bank  since 
1967."  Pages  185-21 1  in  Joel  S.  Migdal  (ed.),  Palestinian  Society 
and  Politics.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1980. 

Hodgson,  Marshall  GJ.  The  Venture  of  Islam:  The  Gunpowder  Em- 
pires and  Modern  Times.  (3  Vols.)  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago 
Press,  1974. 

Horowitz,  Dan,  and  Moshe  Lissak.  Origins  of  the  Israeli  Polity:  Palestine 
under  the  Mandate.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1978. 

Israel.  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics.  Monthly  Bulletin  of  Statistics,  38. 
Jerusalem:  1987,  12. 

 Central  Bureau  of  Statistics.  Statistical  Abstract  of  Israel,  1987. 

Jerusalem:  1987. 

Kushner,  Gilbert.  Immigrants  from  India  in  Israel.  Tucson:  Univer- 
sity of  Arizona  Press,  1973. 

Lewis,  Arnold.  "Phantom  Ethnicity:  'Oriental  Jews'  in  Israeli  So- 
ciety." Pages  133-57  in  Alex  Weingrod  (ed.),  Studies  in  Israeli 
Ethnicity:  After  the  Ingathering.  New  York:  Gordon  and  Breach, 
1985.  ' 

 Power,  Poverty,  and  Education:  An  Ethnography  of  Schooling  in 

an  Israeli  Town.  Ramat  Gan,  Israel:  Turtledove  Publishing,  1979. 

Lewis,  Herbert  S.  "Ethnicity,  Culture,  and  Adaptation  Among 
Yemenites  in  a  Heterogenous  Community."  Pages  217-36  in 
Alex  Weingrod  (ed.),  Studies  in  Israeli  Ethnicity:  After  the  Ingather- 
ing. New  York:  Gordon  and  Breach,  1985. 

Liebman,  Charles  S.  "The  'Who  is  a  Jew?'  Controversy — Political 
and  Anthropological  Perspectives."  Pages  194-202  in  Stuart  A. 
Cohen  and  Eliezer  Don-Yehiya  (eds.),  Conflict  and  Consensus  in 


368 


Bibliography 


Jewish  Public  Life.  Ramat  Gan,  Israel:  Bar-Dan  University  Press, 
1986. 

Liebman,  Charles  S.,  and  Eliezer  Don-Yehiya.  Civil  Religion  in 
Israel.  Berkeley  and  Los  Angeles:  University  of  California  Press, 
1983. 

 Religion  and  Politics  in  Israel.  Bloomington:  Indiana  Univer- 
sity Press,  1984. 

Loeb,  Lawrence  D.  "Folk  Models  of  Habbani  Ethnic  Identity." 
Pages  201-15  in  Alex  Weingrod  (ed.),  Studies  in  Israeli  Ethnicity: 
After  the  Ingathering.  New  York:  Gordon  and  Breach,  1985. 

Lotan,  Givra.  "Social  Security  and  Welfare."  Pages  218-22  in 
Israel  Pocket  Library:  Society.  Jerusalem:  Keter  Books,  1974. 

Lustick,  Ian.  Arabs  in  the  Jewish  State.  Austin:  University  of  Texas 
Press,  1980. 

 .  "The  West  Bank  and  Gaza  in  Israeli  Politics."  Pages 

79-98  in  Steven  Heydemann  (ed.),  Issues  in  Contemporary  Israel: 
The  Begin  Era.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1984. 

Marx,  Emmanuel.  The  Social  Context  of  Violent  Behavior:  A  Social 
Anthropological  Study  in  an  Israeli  Immigrant  Town.  London:  Rout- 
ledge  and  Kegan  Paul,  1976. 

Matras,  Judah.  "International  Social  Mobility  and  Ethnic  Organi- 
zation in  the  Jewish  Population  of  Israel."  Pages  1-23  in  Alex 
Weingrod  (ed.),  Studies  in  Israeli  Ethnicity:  After  the  Ingathering.  New 
York:  Gordon  and  Breach,  1985. 

Middle  East  Research  Institute.  The MERI Report:  Israel.  London: 
Croom-Helm,  1985. 

Migdal,  Joel  S.  (ed.).  Palestinian  Society  and  Politics.  Princeton:  Prince- 
ton University  Press,  1980. 

Newman,  David  (ed.).  The  Impact  of  Gush  Emunim:  Politics  and  Set- 
tlement in  the  West  Bank.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1985. 

"1987  Year-end  Worldwide  Reported  AIDS  Cases  Top  74,000," 
AIDS  Record,  2,  No.  2,  December  31,  1987,  9. 

Oppenheimer,  Jonathan.  "The  Druze  in  Israel  as  Arabs  and  Non- 
Arabs."  Pages  259-79  in  Alex  Weingrod  (ed.),  Studies  in  Israeli 
Ethnicity:  After  the  Ingathering.  New  York:  Gordon  and  Breach,  1985. 

Orni,  Efraim.  "Human  Geography."  Pages  228-74  in  Israel  Pocket 
Library:  Society.  Jerusalem:  Keter  Books,  1974. 

Oz,  Amos.  In  the  Land  of  Israel.  San  Diego:  Harcourt  Brace 
Jovanovitch,  1983. 

Reich,  Bernard.  Israel:  Land  of  Tradition  and  Conflict.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

Rolef,  Susan  Hattis  (ed.).  Political  Dictionary  of  the  State  of  Israel.  New 
York:  Macmillan,  1987. 


369 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Rosenfeld,  Henry.  "The  Class  Situation  of  the  Arab  Minority  in 
Israel,"  Comparative  Studies  in  Society  and  History,  20,  1978, 
374-407. 

Sachar,  Howard  M.  A  History  of  Israel,  I:  From  the  Rise  of  Zionism 

to  Our  Time.  New  York:  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  1981. 
Schiff,  Gary  S.  "The  Politics  of  Fertility  Policy  in  Israel."  Pages 

255-78  in  Paul  Ritterbrand  (ed.),  Modern  Jewish  Fertility.  Leiden, 

Netherlands:  E.J.  Brill,  1981. 
Shokeid,  Moshe.  "Aggression  and  Social  Relationships  Among 

Moroccan  Immigrants."  Pages  281-96  in  Alex  Weingrod  (ed.), 

Studies  in  Israeli  Ethnicity:  After  the  Ingathering.  New  York:  Gordon 

and  Breach,  1985. 
 The  Dual  Heritage:  Immigrants  from  the  Atlas  Mountains  in  an 

Israeli  Village.   Manchester  (United  Kingdom):  Manchester 

University  Press,  1971. 
Shulewitz,  M.H.  "Health  Services."  Pages  199-217  in  Israel  Pocket 

Library:  Society.  Jerusalem:  Keter  Books,  1974. 
Smooha,  Sammy.  "Existing  and  Alternative  Policy  Towards  the 

Arabs  in  Israel,"  Ethnic  and  Racial  Studies,  5,  No.  1,  1982,  72-98. 

 .  Israel:  Pluralism  and  Conflict.  Berkeley  and  Los  Angeles: 

University  of  California  Press,  1978. 
 The  Orientation  and  Politicization  of  the  Arab  Minority  in  Israel. 

Haifa,  Israel:  Institute  of  Middle  East  Studies,  1980. 
Sobel,  Zvi.  Migrants  from  the  Promised  Land.  New  Brunswick,  New 

Jersey:  Transaction  Books,  1986. 
Spilerman,  Seymour,  and  Jack  Habib.  "Development  Towns  in 

Israel:  The  Role  of  Community  in  Creating  Ethnic  Disparities 

in  Labor  Force  Characteristics,"  American  Journal  of  Sociology,  81, 

No.  4,  1976,  781-812. 
Spiro,  Melford  E.  Kibbutz:  Venture  in  Utopia.  (Augmented  edition.) 

New  York:  Schocken  Books,  1970. 
Sprinzak,  Ehud.  Fundamentalism,  Terrorism,  and  Democracy:  The  Case 

of  Gush  Emunim  Underground.  Washington:  Woodrow  Wilson  In- 
stitute, 1986. 

 "Gush  Emunim — The  Iceberg  Model  of  Political  Extre- 
mism," State,  Government,  and  International  Relations  [Israel],  14, 
25-52. 

Tabory,  Ephraim.  "Pluralism  in  the  Jewish  State:  Reform  and 
Conservative  Judaism  in  Israel."  Pages  170-93  in  Stuart  A. 
Cohen  and  Eliezer  Don-Yehiya  (eds.),  Conflict  and  Consensus  in 
Jewish  Political  Life.  Ramat  Gan,  Israel:  Bar-Ilan  University  Press, 
1986. 

Talmon,  Yonina.  Family  and  Community  in  the  Kibbutz.  Cambridge: 
Harvard  University  Press,  1972. 


370 


Bibliography 


Weingrod,  Alex.  "Recent  Trends  in  Israeli  Ethnicity,"  Ethnic  and 
Racial  Studies,  2,  No.  1,  1979,  55-65. 

 Reluctant  Pioneers:  Village  Development  in  Israel.  Ithaca:  Cor- 
nell University  Press,  1966. 

Weingrod,  Alex  (ed.).  Studies  in  Israeli  Ethnicity:  After  the  Ingather- 
ing. New  York:  Gordon  and  Breach,  1985. 

Willner,  Dorothy.  Nation- Building  and  Community  in  Israel.  Prince- 
ton: Princeton  University  Press,  1969. 

Wolffsohn,  Michael.  Israel:  Polity,  Society,  and  Economy,  1882-1986. 
Atlantic  Highlands,  New  Jersey:  Humanities  Press,  1987. 

Zucker,  Norman  I.  The  Coming  Crisis  in  Israel:  Private  Faith  and  Public 
Policy.  Cambridge:  MIT  Press,  1973. 

Zureik,  Elia.  "Transformation  of  Class  Structure  Among  Arabs 
in  Israel:  From  Peasantry  to  Proletariat,"  Journal  of  Palestine 
Studies,  6,  No.  1,  1976,  39-66. 


Chapter  3 

Ablin,  Richard.  "Forecasting  Israel's  Capital  Flows — Some  Econo- 
metric First  Steps,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem], 
43,  June  1976,  3-17. 

 .  "Israel's  Foreign  Trade — Demand  and  Prices:  A  Regres- 
sion Analysis  of  the  Short  Run,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review 
[Jerusalem],  45-46,  February  1979,  23-62. 

 .  "A  Last  Decade  of  Israeli  Growth?  Economic  Policy  Since 

1973,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  48-49,  May 
1980,  45-83. 

Amir,  Shmuel.  "Changes  in  the  Wage  Function  for  Israeli  Jewish 
Male  Employees  Between  1968-69  and  1975-76,"  Bank  of  Israel 
Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  52,  August  1981,  5-29. 

-  "Educational  Structure  and  Wage  Differentials  of  the 
Labor  Force  in  the  1970s."  Pages  137-52  in  Yoram  Ben-Porath 
(ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Maturing  Through  Crisis.  Cambridge: 
Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

 "The  Effects  of  the  Children's  Allowance  in  Israel's  Labor 

Supply,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  47,  October 
1979,  1-45. 

Arian,  A.  (ed.).  Israel:  A  Developing  Society.  Assen,  Netherlands:  Van 
Gorcum,  1980. 

Auerbach,  Zvi.  "The  Income  and  Price  Effects  on  the  Computa- 
tion of  Private  Consumption,  1956-77,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic 
Review  [Jerusalem],  52,  August  1981,  30-45. 


371 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


 .  "Private  Consumption  Prices  in  Israel  in  1964-77  by  Main 

Cost  Components,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem], 
50,  February  1981,  33-63. 

Bank  of  Israel.  Annual  Report,  1983.  Jerusalem,  Israel:  Ahva  Print- 
ing, 1984. 

 Annual  Report,  1984.  Jerusalem,  Israel:  Ahva  Printing, 

1985. 

 Annual  Report,  1985.  Jerusalem,  Israel:  Ahva  Printing, 

1986. 

 .  Annual  Report,  1986.  Jerusalem,  Israel:  Ahva  Printing, 

1987. 

 .  Annual  Report,  1987.  Jerusalem,  Israel:  Ahva  Printing, 

1988. 

Bar-El,  Raphael,  and  Ariela  Nesher  (eds.).  Rural  Industrialization 
in  Israel.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 

Barkai,  Haim.  "Defense  Costs  in  Retrospect,"  Research  Paper, 
No.  115  [Jerusalem],  Hebrew  University,  1980. 

 .  "The  Energy  Sector  in  the  1960s  and  1970s."  Pages 

245-75  in  Yoram  Ben-Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Matur- 
ing Through  Crisis.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

Bar-Nathan,  Moshe.  "The  Declining  Productivity  of  Israel's  Con- 
struction Industry,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem], 
58,  September  1986,  68-82. 

 "Effect  of  Rising  Raw  Materials  Prices  on  the  Produc- 
tivity and  Profitability  of  Israeli  Industry,  1965-80,"  Bank  of  Israel 
Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  57,  May  1985,  53-79. 

Baron,  Malka.  "Changes  in  the  Age  Structure  of  Israel's  Popula- 
tion and  Their  Effect  on  the  Labor  Market,  1965-82,"  Bank  of 
Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  58,  September  1986,  1-28. 

Baruch,  Joseph.  "The  New  Economic  Policy  and  Protection  Levels 
on  Industrial  Import  Substitutes  and  Exports,"  Bank  of  Israel  Eco- 
nomic Review  [Jerusalem],  48-49,  May  1980,  84-91. 

 "Protection  Levels  in  Israel,  1968  and  1972-74,"  Bank 

of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  45-46,  February  1979,  1-22. 

Ben-Bassat,  A.  "An  Evaluation  of  Israel's  Reserve  Portfolio  Per- 
formance," Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  51,  May 
1981,  5-35. 

 .  "Industrial  Investment  Behavior  in  Israel,  1955-68,"  Bank 

of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  42,  June  1975,  72-106. 

Ben-Porath,  Yoram.  "Diversity  in  Population  and  in  Labor  Force." 
Pages  153-70  in  Yoram  Ben-Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy: 
Maturing  Through  Crisis.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press, 
1986. 


372 


Bibliography 

 .  ''The  Entwined  Growth  of  Population  and  Production, 

1922-1982."  Pages  27-41  in  Yoram  Ben-Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli 
Economy:  Maturing  Through  Crisis.  Cambridge:  Harvard  Univer- 
sity Press,  1986. 

Ben-Porath,  Yoram  (ed.).  The  Israeli  Economy:  Maturing  Through  Cri- 
sis. Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

Berglas,  Eitan.  "Defense  and  the  Economy."  Pages  173-91  in 
Yoram  Ben-Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Maturing  Through 
Crisis.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

 .  "Taxes  and  Transfers  in  an  Inflationary  Decade."  Pages 

221-38  in  Yoram  Ben-Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Matur- 
ing Through  Crisis.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

Bergman,  Arie.  "The  Slowdown  of  Industrial  Productivity — 
Causes,  Explanations,  and  Surprises,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic 
Review  [Jerusalem],  56,  April  1985,  1-24. 

Bloom,  Liora.  "Israel's  Demand  Function  for  Imports  of  Goods, 
1968-1976,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  55, 
November  1983,  77-93. 

Brenner,  Menahem,  and  Dan  Gabai.  "The  Effect  of  Inflation  on 
Stock  Yields:  1965-1974,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusa- 
lem], 48-49,  May  1980,  99-102. 

 .  "The  Effect  of  Inflation  on  Stock  Yields  1965-1979,"  Bank 

of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  53,  May  1982,  81-86. 

Brezis,  Elise  A.,  Leo  Leiderman,  and  Rafi  Melnick.  "The  Inter- 
action Between  Inflation  and  Monetary  Aggregates  in  Israel," 
Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  55,  November  1983, 
46-60. 

Bronfeld,  Saul.  "The  Banking  System  in  a  Monetary  Model  of 
the  Israeli  Economy,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem], 
51,  May  1981,  36-57. 

Bronfeld,  Saul,  and  Reuven  Brenner.  "Inflation  and  the  Liquidity 
of  Index- Linked  Bonds, ' '  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusa- 
lem], 44,  November  1977,  1-28. 

Bruno,  Michael.  "External  Shocks  and  Domestic  Response: 
Macroeconomics  Performance,  1965-82."  Pages  276-301  in 
Yoram  Ben-Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Maturing  Through 
Crisis.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

Bruno,  Michael,  and  Stanley  Fischer.  "The  Inflationary  Process, 
Shocks  and  Accommodation."  Pages  347-74  in  Yoram  Ben- 
Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Maturing  Through  Crisis.  Cam- 
bridge: Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

Cukierman,  A.,  E.A.  Pazner,  and  A.  Razin.  "A  Macroeconomic 
Model  of  the  Israeli  Economy,  1956-1974,"  Bank  of  Israel  Eco- 
nomic Review  [Jerusalem],  44,  November  1977,  29-64. 


373 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Cukierman,  Alex,  and  Joseph  Cohen.  "The  Free  Credit  Market 
in  Israel,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  50,  February 
1981,  64-101. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Profile:  Israel:  1986-87.  Lon- 
don: 1986. 

 .  Country  Profile:  Israel:  1987-88.  London:  1987. 

Elkayam,  David.  "Incorporation  of  Liquid  Assets  in  a  Dynamic 
Consumption  Function  for  the  1970s,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic 
Review  [Jerusalem],  58,  September  1986,  29-52. 

Elkayam,  David,  and  Rafi  Melnick.  "An  Annual  Model  of  the 
Consumption  Function,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusa- 
lem], 56,  April  1985,  25-54. 

Fischer,  Stanley.  "Inflation  and  Indexation:  Israel."  Pages  57-84 
in  John  Williamson  (ed.),  Inflation  and  Indexation:  Argentina,  Brazil, 
and  Israel.  Cambridge:  MIT  Press,  1985. 

 .  "Monetary  Policy  in  Israel, ' '  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review 

[Jerusalem],  53,  May  1982,  5-30. 

Flanders,  June  M. ,  and  Assaf  Razin  (eds.).  Development  in  an  Infla- 
tionary World.  New  York:  Academic  Press,  1981. 

Flink,  Salomon  J.  Israel,  Chaos  and  Challenge:  Politics  vs.  Economics. 
Ramat  Gan,  Israel  and  Forest  Grove,  Oregon:  Turtledove,  1979. 

Friedman,  Benjamin  M.  "The  Roles  of  Money  and  Credit  in  Mac- 
roeconomic  Analysis,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem], 

55,  November  1983,  1-7. 

Gaathon,  A.L.  Economic  Productivity  in  Israel.  New  York:  Praeger, 
1971. 

Geva,  Yehuda,  and  Jack  Habib.  "The  Development  of  the  Transfer 
System  and  the  Redistribution  of  Income."  Pages  209-20  in 
Yoram  Ben-Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Maturing  Through 
Crisis.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

Ginor,  Fanny.  Socio- Economic  Disparities  in  Israel.  Tel  Aviv:  Trans- 
action Books,  1979. 

Gottlieb,  Daniel,  and  Sylvia  Piterman.  "Inflationary  Expectation 
in  Israel,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  57,  May 
1985,  1-25. 

Greenwald,  Carol  Schwartz.  Recession  as  a  Policy  Instrument:  Israel, 
1965-69.  Rutherford,  New  Jersey:  Fairleigh  Dickinson  Univer- 
sity Press,  1973. 

Gronau,  Reuben,  and  Zvi  Weiss.  "Road  User  Charges  and 
Automobile  Taxation  in  Israel,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review 
[Jerusalem],  55,  November  1983,  8-47. 

Gross,  Ephraim.  "An  Analysis  of  Family  Expenditure  by  Con- 
sumption Category, ' '  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem] , 

56,  April  1985,  55-96. 


374 


Bibliography 


Halevi,  Nadav.  "Perspectives  on  the  Balance  of  Payments. "  Pages 
241-63  in  Yoram  Ben-Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Matur- 
ing Through  Crisis.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

Halevi,  Nadav,  and  Ruth  Klinov-Malul.  The  Economic  Development 
of  Israel.  New  York:  Praeger,  1968. 

Heth,  Meir.  Banking  Institutions  in  Israel.  Jerusalem:  Maurice  Falk 
Institute  for  Economic  Research  in  Israel,  1966. 

 .  The  Flow  of  Funds  in  Israel.  New  York:  Praeger,  1970. 

.  The  Legal  Framework  of  Economic  Activity  in  Israel.  New  York: 
Praeger,  1967. 

Horowitz,  David.  Enigma  of  Economic  Growth:  A  Case  Study  of  Israel. 
New  York:  Praeger,  1972. 

Israel,  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics.  Statistical  Abstract  of  Israel,  1983. 
Jerusalem:  1983. 

 .  Statistical  Abstract  of  Israel,  1984.  Jerusalem:  1984. 

 .  Statistical  Abstract  of  Israel,  1985.  Jerusalem:  1985. 

 .  Statistical  Abstract  of  Israel,  1986.  Jerusalem:  1986. 

 .  Statistical  Abstract  of  Israel,  1987.  Jerusalem:  1987. 

Israel,  Ministry  of  Finance.  Budget  in  Brief.  (Annuals,  1979-87.) 
Jerusalem:  1980-88. 

Justman,  Moshe,  and  Morris  Teubal.  "Towards  the  Formulation 
and  Implementation  of  an  Explicit  Industrial  and  Technologi- 
cal Policy  for  Israel,"  (unpublished  paper),  1987. 

Kleiman,  Ephraim.  "Indexation  in  the  Labor  Market."  Pages 
302-19  in  Yoram  Ben-Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Matur- 
ing Through  Crisis.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

Kleiman,  Ephraim,  and  T.  Ophir.  "The  Effects  of  Changes  in  the 
Quantity  of  Money  on  Prices  in  Israel,  1955-1965,"  Bank  of  Israel 
Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  42,  January  1975,  15-45. 

 .  "Inflation  in  Israel,  1955-1965:  The  Wage  Push  on 

Prices,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  43,  June  1976, 
18-28. 

Klinov,  Ruth.  "Changes  in  the  Industrial  Structure."  Pages  119-36 
in  Yoram  Ben-Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Maturing  Through 
Crisis.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

Landau,  Philip.  Israel  to  1991:  Reform  or  Relapse?  London:  Economist 
Publications,  1987. 

Lavie,  Yaakov.  "Wage  Dynamics  in  Israel  1963-1971,"  Bank  of 
Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  44,  November  1977,  65-99. 

Lerner,  Abba,  and  Haim  Ben-Shahar.  The  Economics  of  Efficiency 
and  Growth.  Cambridge,  Massachusetts:  Ballinger  Publishing, 
1975. 

Lev,  Nachum.  "Gasoline  Demand  in  Israel,  1960-1975,"  Bank 
of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  52,  August  1981,  46-71. 


375 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

Levinson,  Pinchas,  and  Pinchas  Landau.  Israel  Economic  and  Busi- 
ness Review,  1985.  Jerusalem:  Israeli  Economist,  1985. 

Levy,  Haim.  "Capital  Structure,  Inflation,  and  the  Cost  of  Capi- 
tal in  Israeli  Industry,  1964-1978,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review 
[Jerusalem],  53,  May  1982,  31-63. 

Levy,  Haim  and  Marshall  Sarnat.  "Risk,  Diversification,  and  the 
Composition  of  the  Market  Portfolio:  An  Analysis  of  the  Tel  Aviv 
Stock  Exchange,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  42, 
June  1975,  46-71. 

Litvin,  Uri,  and  Leora  Meridor.  "The  Grant  Equivalent  of  Sub- 
sidized Investment  in  Israel,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review 
[Jerusalem],  54,  April  1983,  5-30. 

Liviatan,  Nissan,  and  Sylvia  Piterman.  "Accelerating  Inflation  and 
Balance-of-Payments  Crises,  1973-84."  Pages  320-46  in  Yoram 
Ben-Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Maturing  Through  Crisis. 
Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

Liviatan,  Oded.  "Frequency  of  Wage  Indexation  Adjustments," 
Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  57,  May  1985,  37-52. 

 .  "Israeli  External  Debt,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review 

[Jerusalem],  48-49,  May  1980,  1-44. 

Mayshar,  Joram.  "Investment  Patterns."  Pages  101-18  in  Yoram 
Ben-Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Maturing  Through  Crisis. 
Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

Menzly,  Yehuda.  "Interest  Rates  on  Nondirected  Bank  Credit, 
1965-1972,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  45-46, 
February  1979,  86-126. 

Meridor,  Leora.  "Deficit  Neutrality:  The  Israeli  Case,"  Bank  of 
Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  57,  May  1985,  26-36. 

Meron,  Raphael.  Economic  Development  in  Judea-Samaria  and  the  Gaza 
District:  Economic  Growth  and  Structural  Change,  1970-80.  Jerusa- 
lem: Bank  of  Israel,  Ahva  Press,  1983. 

Metzer,  Jacob.  "The  Slowdown  of  Economic  Growth:  A  Passing 
Phase  or  the  End  of  the  Big  Spurt."  Pages  75-100  in  Yoram 
Ben-Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Maturing  Through  Crisis. 
Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

Michaely,  Michael.  Foreign  Trade  Regimes  and  Economic  Development: 
Israel.  New  York:  Columbia  University  Press,  1975. 

 Israel's  Foreign  Exchange  Rate  System.  Jerusalem:  Maurice 

Falk  Institute  for  Economic  Research  in  Israel,  1971. 

Nachmany,  Doron.  "Price  Equations  for  Israeli  Manufacturing 
Industries,  1964-1977,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusa- 
lem], 53,  May  1982,  64-80. 

Ofer,  Gur.  "A  Cross-Country  Comparison  of  Industrial  Struc- 
ture." Chapter  in  Nadav  Halevi  and  Y.  Kop  (eds.),  Ikarot 


376 


Bibliography 


Bakalkala  HaYisraelit  (Issues  in  the  Economy  of  Israel).  Jerusa- 
lem: Maurice  Falk  Institute  for  Economic  Research  in  Israel, 
1976. 

 .  "Public  Spending  on  Civilian  Services."  Pages  192-208 

in  Yoram  Ben-Porath  (ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Maturing  Through 
Crisis.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

Pack,  Howard.  Structural  Change  and  Economic  Policy  in  Israel.  New 
Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1971. 

Paroush,  Jacob,  and  Malka  Baron.  "Employment  Pressure  in 
Israel,  1967-75,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem], 
45-46,  February  1979,  63-85. 

Patinkin,  Don.  The  Israeli  Economy.  Jerusalem:  Maurice  Falk  Project 
for  Economic  Research  in  Israel,  1959. 

Pelzman,  Joseph.  "The  Effect  of  the  U.S. -Israel  Free  Trade  Area 
Agreement  on  Israeli  Trade  and  Employment."  Pages  140-75 
in  Bernard  Reich  and  Gershon  R.  Kieval  (eds.),  Israel  Faces  the 
Future.  New  York:  Praeger,  1986. 

 .  "The  Impact  of  the  U.S. -Israel  Free  Trade  Area  Agree- 
ment on  Israeli  Trade  and  Employment. "  Jerusalem:  Maurice 
Falk  Institute  for  Economic  Research  in  Israel,  1985. 

 .  "The  U.S. -Israel  Free  Trade  Area  Agreement  and  Israeli 

Textile  Exports  to  the  United  States."  (Paper  presented  at 
Israel- American  Trade  Week,  1986.)  Tel  Aviv:  1986. 

Pines,  David,  Efraim  Sadka,  and  Eytan  Sheshinski.  "Discrimina- 
tory Taxation  of  Owner-Occupied  Housing:  Its  Effects  on 
Resource  Allocation  and  Income  Distribution,"  Bank  of  Israel 
Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  58,  September  1986,  83-110. 

Piterman,  Sylvia,  and  Ben-Zion  Zilberfarb.  "Financial  Savings 
of  the  Private  Sector  in  Israel,  1972-1977,"  Bank  of  Israel  Eco- 
nomic Review  [Jerusalem],  54,  April  1983,  31-54. 

Sanbar,  Marsh.  "Israel's  Major  Goals  and  Problems,"  Bank  of  Israel 
Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  44,  November  1977,  134-42. 

Sharkansky,  Ira.  What  Makes  Israel  Tick:  How  Domestic  Policy-Makers 
Cope  With  Constraints.  Chicago:  Nelson-Hall,  1985. 

Sussman,  Zvi.  Israel's  Economy:  Performance,  Problems,  and  Policies. 
Tel  Aviv:  Jacob  Levinson  Center  of  the  Israel-Diaspora  Insti- 
tute, 1986. 

Syrquin,  Moshe.  "Economic  Growth  and  Structural  Change:  An 
International  Perspective."  Pages  42-74  in  Yoram  Ben-Porath 
(ed.),  The  Israeli  Economy:  Maturing  Through  Crisis.  Cambridge: 
Harvard  University  Press,  1986. 

Tamari,  Meir.  "Equity,  Financing,  and  Gearing  in  the  U.K., 
U.S.A.,  Japan,  and  Israel,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusa- 
lem], 43,  June  1976,  29-54. 


377 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


 .  ''Monetary  Policy  and  the  Individual  Firm.  An  Analysis 

of  Company  Accounts  in  Israel,  U.K.,  U.S.A.,  and  Japan," 
Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  45-46,  February  1979, 
127-43. 

Tamari,  Meir,  and  Emanuel  Gabai.  "Some  Effects  of  Differen- 
tial Income  Tax  Rates  on  the  Behavior  of  Israel's  Industrial  Com- 
panies," Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  42,  January 
1975,  3-14. 

Tarab,  Shlomo.  "Some  Aspects  of  Efficiency  of  Investment  in 
Mutual  Funds  Investing  in  Shares,  1965-72,"  Bank  of  Israel  Eco- 
nomic Review  [Jerusalem],  48-49,  May  1980,  103-19. 

Weiss,  Zvi.  "Allocation  and  Financing  of  Motor  Transport  Infra- 
structure Costs  in  Israel,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusa- 
lem], 50,  February  1981,  5-32. 

Williamson,  John.  Inflation  and  Indexation:  Argentina,  Brazil,  and  Israel. 
Cambridge:  MIT  Press,  1985. 

Wolffsohn,  Michael.  Israel:  Polity,  Society,  and  Economy,  1882-1986. 
Atlantic  Highlands,  New  Jersey:  Humanities  Press  International, 
1987. 

Yitzhai,  Shlomo,  and  Haim  Shalit.  "Efficient  Portfolio  Selection: 
Application  to  the  Tel  Aviv  Stock  Exchange,"  Bank  of  Israel  Eco- 
nomic Review  [Jerusalem],  58,  September  1986,  53-67. 

Zilberfarb,  Ben-Zion.  "Topics  in  the  Demand  for  Money  in 
Israel,"  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusalem],  55,  Novem- 
ber 1983,  61-76. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Bank  of  Israel  Economic  Review  [Jerusa- 
lem]; Bank  of  Israel  Recent  Economic  Developments  [Jerusalem];  Israel 
Economist  [Jerusalem];  Monthly  Bulletin  of  Statistics  [Jerusalem].) 


Chapter  4 

Abramov,  S.  Zalman.  Perpetual  Dilemma:  Jewish  Religion  in  the  Jew- 
ish State.  Rutherford,  New  Jersey:  Fairleigh  Dickinson  Univer- 
sity Press,  1976. 

"Africa- Israel:  Improved  Relations  Hinge  on  Peace  Talks,"  Africa 
Research  Bulletin  (Political  Series),  25,  No.  3,  April  15,  1988, 
8824-25. 

Arian,  Asher.  Politics  in  Israel:  The  Second  Generation.  Chatham,  New 
Jersey:  Chatham  House  Publishers,  1985. 

Arian,  Asher  (ed.).  The  Elections  in  Israel:  1969.  Jerusalem:  Jerusa- 
lem Academic  Press,  1972. 


378 


Bibliography 


 .  The  Elections  in  Israel:  1973.  New  Brunswick,  New  Jersey: 

Transaction  Books,  1975. 
 .  The  Elections  in  Israel:  1977.  Jerusalem:  Jerusalem  Academic 

Press,  1980. 

 .  The  Elections  in  Israel:  1981.  New  Brunswick,  New  Jersey: 

Transaction  Books,  1984. 
Arian,  Asher,  and  Michal  Shamir  (eds.).  The  Elections  in  Israel:  1984. 

New  Brunswick,  New  Jersey:  Transaction  Books,  1986. 
Aronoff,  Myron  J.  Power  and  Ritual  in  the  Israel  Labor  Party:  A  Study 

in  Political  Anthropology.  Assen,  Netherlands:  Van  Gorcum,  1977. 
Aronson,  Shlomo.  Conflict  and  Bargaining  in  the  Middle  East:  An  Israeli 

Perspective.  Baltimore:  Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  1979. 
Avishai,  Bernard.  The  Tragedy  of  Zionism:  Revolution  and  Democracy 

in  the  Land  of  Israel.  New  York:  Farrar  Straus  Giroux,  1985. 
Ben-Meir,  Dov.  HaHistadrut.  Jerusalem:  Carta,  1978. 
Brecher,  Michael.  Decisions  in  Crisis:  Israel,  1967  and  1973.  Berkeley 

and  Los  Angeles:  University  of  California  Press,  1980. 
 .  Decisions  in  Israel's  Foreign  Policy.  New  Haven:  Yale  Univer- 
sity Press,  1975. 
 The  Foreign  Policy  System  of  Israel:  Setting,  Images,  Process.  New 

Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1972. 
Brooke,  James.  'Tn  African  Diplomacy,  Israel  Gains  a  Toehold," 

New  York  Times,  July  27,  1987,  A2. 
Brookings  Institution.  Toward  Arab-Israeli  Peace:  Report  of  a  Study 

Group.  Washington:  1988. 
Caspi,  Dan,  Abraham  Diskin,  and  Emanuel  Gutmann  (eds.).  The 

Roots  of  Begin 's  Success:  The  1981  Israeli  Elections.  New  York:  St. 

Martin's  Press,  1984. 
Cohen,  Mitchell.  Zion  and  State:  Nation,  Class,  and  the  Shaping  of 

Modern  Israel.  New  York:  Basil  Blackwell,  1987. 
Elazar,  Daniel  J.,  and  Alysa  M.  Dortot  (eds.).  Understanding  the 

Jewish  Agency:  A  Handbook.  Jerusalem:  Jerusalem  Center  for  Public 

Affairs,  November  1985. 
Elazar,  Daniel  J.,  and  Chaim  Kalchheim  (eds.).  Local  Government 

in  Israel.  Lanham,  Maryland:  University  Press  of  America,  1988. 
Elizur,  Yuval  and  Eliahu  Salpeter.  Who  Rules  Israel?  New  York: 

Harper  and  Row,  1973. 
Frankel,  Glenn.  "Israel  Imposes  Sanctions  on  South  Africa," 

Washington  Post,  September  17,  1987,  A46. 
 Israel  Pledges  to  Reduce  Military  Ties  to  South  Africa," 

Washington  Post,  March  20,  1987,  Al,  A26. 
Frankel,  William.  Israel  Observed:  An  Anatomy  of  the  State.  New  York: 

Thames  and  Hudson,  1981. 


379 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Freedman,  Robert  O.  (ed.).  Israel  in  the  Begin  Era.  New  York: 
Praeger,  1982. 

Friedman,  Thomas  L.  "Israel  Approves  Curbs  on  Pretoria,"  New 

York  Times,  September  17,  1987,  A4. 
 "Israel  Parliament  Hears  Plan  on  Pretoria,"  New  York 

Times,  March  20,  1987,  A3. 
Horowitz,  Dan,  and  Moshe  Lissak.  Origins  of  the  Israeli  Polity:  Palestine 

under  the  Mandate.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1978. 
Hurewitz,  J.C.  Middle  East  Politics:  The  Military  Dimension.  New 

York:  Octagon  Books,  1974. 
Kieval,  Gershon  R.  Party  Politics  in  Israel  and  the  Occupied  Territories. 

Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1983. 
Kifner,  John.  "Some  Dismay  on  the  Road  to  Morocco,"  New  York 

Times,  July  27,  1986,  E3. 
Klieman,  Aaron  S.  Israel's  Global  Reach:  Arms  Sales  as  Diplomacy. 

Washington:  Pergamon-Brassey's,  1985. 
 .  Statecraft  in  the  Dark:  Israel's  Practice  of  Quiet  Diplomacy.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 
Laipson,  Ellen  B.  "Israeli- American  Relations,"  (Library  of  Con- 
gress Congressional  Research  Service,  Issue  Brief  IB82008.) 

December  15,  1988. 
Lapidoth,  Ruth.  "The  Taba  Controversy,"  Jerusalem  Quarterly 

[Jerusalem],  No.  37,  1986,  29-39. 
Little,  Tom.  "Israel."  Pages  452-64  in  The  Middle  East  and  North 

Africa,  1988.  London:  Europa  Publications,  1987. 
Lukacs,  Yehuda,  and  Abdalla  M.  Battah  (eds.).  The  Arab-Israeli 

Conflict:  Two  Decades  of  Change.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview 

Press,  1988. 

Lustick,  Ian  S.  For  the  Land  and  the  Lord:  Jewish  Fundamentalism  in 
Israel.  New  York:  Council  on  Foreign  Relations,  1988. 

Lustick,  Ian  S.  (ed.).  Books  on  Israel.  Albany:  State  University  of 
New  York  Press,  1988. 

Mahler,  Gregory  S.  Bibliography  of  Israeli  Politics.  Boulder,  Colo- 
rado: Westview  Press,  1985. 

Medding,  Peter  Y.  Mapai  in  Israel:  Political  Organization  and  Govern- 
ment in  a  New  Society.  New  York:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1972. 

Melman,  Yossi,  and  Dan  Raviv.  Shutafut  Ivunit:  Haksharim  Hasodiim 
Bein  Yisrael  le  Yerden  (Hostile  Partners:  The  Secret  Ties  Between 
Israel  and  Jordan).  Tel  Aviv:  Mitam,  1987. 

Murphy,  Richard  W.  "An  American  Vision  of  Peace  in  the  Mid- 
dle East,"  Department  of  State  Bulletin,  88,  No.  2135,  June  1988, 
37-38. 


380 


Bibliography 


Oded,  Arye.  Africa  and  the  Middle  East  Conflict.  Boulder,  Colorado: 

Lynne  Rienner,  1987. 
Patai,  Raphael  (ed.).  Encyclopedia  of  Zionism  and  Israel.  (2  Vols.)  New 

York:  McGraw-Hill,  1971. 
Penniman,  Howard  R.,  (ed.).  Israel  at  the  Polls:  The  Knesset  Elec- 
tions of  1977.  Washington:  American  Enterprise  Institute,  1979. 
Penniman,  Howard  R.,  and  Daniel  J.  Elazar  (eds.).  Israel  at  the 

Polls,  1981 :  A  Study  of  the  Knesset  Elections.  Bloomington:  Indiana 

University  Press,  1986. 
Peri,  Yoram.  Between  Battles  and  Ballots:  Israeli  Military  in  Politics. 

New  York:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1983. 
Phillips,  James  A.  "America's  Security  Stake  in  Israel,"  Heritage 

Foundation  Backgrounder,  No.  521,  July  7,  1986. 
 "Next  Step  in  the  Special  Relationship:  A  U.S. -Israel 

Defense  Council,"  Heritage  Foundation  Backgrounder  Update,  No.  76, 

June  5,  1988. 

Quandt,  William  B.  Camp  David:  Peacemaking  and  Politics .  Washing- 
ton: Brookings  Institution,  1986. 

Raphael,  Gideon.  Destination  Peace:  Three  Decades  of  Israeli  Foreign 
Policy.  New  York:  Stein  and  Day,  1981. 

Raviv,  Dan,  and  Yossi  Melman.  "Hussein's  Covert  Israeli  Con- 
nection," Washington  Post,  September  27,  1987,  Dl,  D4. 

Reich,  Bernard.  Israel:  Land  of  Tradition  and  Conflict.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

 .  Quest  For  Peace:  United  States-Israel  Relations  and  the  Arab- 
Israeli  Conflict.  New  Brunswick,  New  Jersey:  Transaction  Books, 
1977. 

 The  United  States  and  Israel:  The  Dynamics  of  Influence.  New 

York:  Praeger,  1984. 

Reich,  Bernard,  and  Gershon  R.  Kieval  (eds.).  Israeli  National  Secu- 
rity Policy:  Political  Actors  and  Perspectives .  New  York:  Greenwood 
Press,  1988. 

Ro'i,  Yaacov.  "A  New  Soviet  Policy  Towards  Israel?"  Jerusalem 
Quarterly  [Jerusalem],  No.  44,  Fall  1987,  3-17. 

Rubenberg,  Cheryl  A.  Israel  and  the  American  National  Interest:  A  Criti- 
cal Examination.  Urbana  and  Chicago:  University  of  Illinois  Press, 
1986. 

Rubenstein,  Sondra  Miller.  The  Communist  Movement  in  Palestine  and 
Israel,  1919-1984.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

Sachar,  Howard  M.  A  History  of  Israel,  I:  From  the  Rise  of  Zionism 
to  Our  Time.  New  York:  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  1986. 

Sager,  Samuel.  The  Parliamentary  System  of  Israel.  Syracuse,  New 
York:  Syracuse  University  Press,  1985. 


381 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Saunders,  Harold  H.  The  Other  Walls:  The  Politics  of  the  Arab -Israeli 
Peace  Process.  Washington:  American  Enterprise  Institute,  1985. 

Schiff,  Gary  S.  Tradition  and  Politics:  The  Religious  Parties  of  Israel. 
Detroit:  Wayne  State  University  Press,  1977. 

Schreiber,  Jacob.  "Does  Israel  Need  a  Constitution?"  Israel 
Economist  [Jerusalem],  43,  April  1988,  18-20. 

Segev,  Tom.  1949:  The  First  Israelis.  New  York:  Free  Press,  1986. 

Shapiro,  Yonathan.  HaDemokratia  Be  Yisrael  (Democracy  in  Israel). 
Ramat  Gan,  Israel:  Massada  Publishing,  1977. 

Sheffer,  Gabriel  (ed.).  Dynamics  of  Dependence:  U.S. -Israeli  Relations. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 

Shinar,  Dov.  "The  West  Bank  Press  and  Palestinian  Nation- 
Building,  "  Jerusalem  Quarterly  [Jerusalem],  No.  43,  Summer  1987, 
37-48. 

Shipler,  David  K.  "For  Israel  and  U.S.,  a  Growing  Military  Part- 
nership," New  York  Times,  March  15,  1987,  Week  in  Review,  1. 

Sicherman,  Harvey.  Changing  the  Balance  of  Risks :  U.S.  Policy  Toward 
the  Arab-Israeli  Conflict.  (Policy  Papers  No.  11).  Washington  In- 
stitute for  Near  East  Policy,  1988. 

Sinai,  Joshua.  "A  Bibliographical  Review  of  the  Modern  History 
of  Israel,"  Middle  East  Review,  10,  No.  1,  Fall  1977,  66-72. 

Smith,  Hanoch.  The  1988  Knesset  Elections:  III.  A  Victory  for  the  Right 
and  Religious  Parties .  (American  Jewish  Committee  Papers).  New 
York:  November  1988. 

Spiegel,  Steven.  The  Other  Arab-Israeli  Conflict:  Making  America's  Mid- 
dle East  Policy  from  Truman  to  Reagan.  Chicago:  University  of  Chi- 
cago Press,  1985. 

Tessler,  Mark.  "Moroccan-Israeli  Relations  and  the  Reasons  for 
Moroccan  Receptivity  to  Contact  with  Israel ,"  Jerusalem  Journal 
of  International  Relations  [Jerusalem],  10,  No.  2,  June  1988,  76-108. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights 
Practices  for  1987.  (Report  Submitted  to  the  Committee  on  For- 
eign Affairs,  House  of  Representatives,  and  the  Committee  on 
Foreign  Relations,  United  States  Senate.)  Washington:  GPO, 
1988. 

Washington  Institute  for  Near  East  Policy.  Building  for  Peace:  An 
American  Strategy  for  the  Middle  East.  Washington:  Washington  In- 
stitute for  Near  East  Policy,  1988. 

Weiss,  Shevach.  HaMahapach:  Mai  1977 — November  1978  (The 
Revolution:  May  1977-November  1978).  Tel  Aviv:  Am  Oved, 
1979. 

Wolffsohn,  Michael.  Israel:  Polity,  Society,  and  Economy,  1882-1986. 
Atlantic  Highlands,  New  Jersey:  Humanities  Press  International, 
1987. 


382 


Bibliography 


Yanai,  Nathan.  Party  Leadership  in  Israel:  Maintenance  and  Change. 

Ramat  Gan,  Israel:  Turtledove  Publishing,  1981. 
Zisar,  Baruch  (ed.).  The  Israeli  Political  System:  Proposals  for  Change. 

Tel  Aviv:  Experimental  Edition,  May  1987. 
Zucker,  Norman  L.  The  Coming  Crisis  in  Israel:  Private  Faith  and  Public 

Policy.  Cambridge:  MIT  Press,  1973. 


Chapter  5 

"Air  War  Over  Israel,"  Defense  Update  [Hod  Hasharon,  Israel], 

No.  88,  June  1988,  1-57. 
Bar-Natan,  Yaacov.  "Arabs  in  the  IDF,"  Spectrum  [Tel  Aviv],  6, 

No.  1,  February  1988,  20-23. 
Beit-Hallahmi,  Benjamin.  The  Israeli  Connection:  Who  Israel  Arms  and 

Why.  New  York:  Pantheon,  1987. 
Bensinger,  Gad  J.  "Criminal  Justice  in  Israel:  A  Research  Note," 

Journal  of  Criminal  Justice,  10,  1982,  393-401. 
 .    "The  Israel  Police  in  Transition:  An  Organizational 

Study,"  Police  Studies  [Henley-on-Thames,  United  Kingdom], 

4,  No.  2,  Summer  1981,  3-8. 
Benvenisti,  Meron.  West  Bank  Data  Project,  1986  Report:  Demographic, 

Economic,  Legal,  Social,  and  Political  Developments  in  the  West  Bank. 

Washington:  American  Enterprise  Institute,  1986. 
Bloom,  James  J.  "The  Six-Days-Plus-Ten-Weeks-War:  Aspects 

of  Israel's  Summer  Campaign  in  Lebanon,  1982,"  Middle  East 

Insight,  2,  No.  5,  January-February  1983,  45-55. 
Brower,  Kenneth  S.  "The  Middle  East  Military  Balance:  Israel 

Versus  the  Rest,"  International  Defense  Review  [Geneva],  19,  No.  7, 

1986,  907-13. 

Chen,  Oz.  "Reflections  on  Israeli  Deterrence ,"  Jerusalem  Quarterly 

[Jerusalem],  No.  24,  Summer  1982,  26-40. 
Chesnoff,  Richard  Z.,  and  James  Wallace.  "The  Twilight  War," 

U.S.  News  and  World  Report,  104,  No.  17,  May  2,  1988,  30-34. 
Dunn,  Michael  Collins.  "Israel:  New  Priorities  for  a  New  Era," 

Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs,  16,  No.  7,  July  1988,  8-14. 
Dupuy,  Trevor  N.,  and  Paul  Martell.  Flawed  Victory:  The  Arab -Israeli 

Conflict  and  the  1982  War  in  Lebanon.  Fairfax,  Virginia:  Hero 

Books,  1986. 

Engel,  Shimon.  "The  Long  Road  from  Molotov  Cocktails  to  Mis- 
siles, Tanks,  and  Lasers:  A  Technological  History  of  the  IDF," 
IDF  Journal  [Jerusalem],  No.  15,  Summer  1988,  22-31. 

Eshel,  David.  "The  Israeli  Armed  Forces:  Part  I:  The  Israeli 
Army Journal  of  Defense  and  Diplomacy,  6,  No.  6,  1988,  20-24. 


383 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Flume,  Wolfgang.  "Israeli  Defence  Industry — Peacetime  Link  in 
the  Economic  Chain,"  Military  Technology  [Bonn],  February  1987, 
93-100. 

Friedman,  Thomas  L.  "Israel's  Development  of  a  Major  Arms 
Industry,"  New  York  Times,  December  7,  1986,  Section  3,  1. 

 .  "Living  with  a  Dirty  War:  Israel's  Dilemma,"  New  York 

Times  Magazine,  January  20,  1985,  32-51. 

Gal,  Reuven.  A  Portrait  of  the  Israeli  Soldier.  Westport,  Connecticut: 
Greenwood  Press,  1986. 

Gazit,  Mordechai.  "Israeli  Military  Procurement  from  the  United 
States."  Pages  83-124  in  Gabriel  Sheffer  (ed.),  Dynamics  of  De- 
pendence: U.S. -Israeli  Relations.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview 
Press,  1987. 

Gold,  Dore.  "Ground-to-Ground  Missiles:  The  Threat  Facing 
Israel,"  IDF  Journal  [Jerusalem],  4,  No.  3,  Fall  1987,  31-34, 
62-63. 

Gunston,  Bill.  An  Illustrated  Guide  to  the  Israeli  Air  Force.  Tel  Aviv: 

Steinmatzky,  1982. 
Hovav,  Meir,  and  Menachem  Amir.  "Israel  Police:  History  and 

Analysis,"  Police  Studies  [Henley-on-Thames,  United  Kingdom], 

2,  No.  2,  Summer  1979,  5-31. 
Hunter,  Jane.  "Israel  and  South  Africa:  Sidestepping  Sanctions," 

Middle  East  International  [London],  No.  319,  February  20,  1988, 

16-17. 

Inbar,  Efraim.  "Israeli  Strategic  Thinking  After  1973,"  Journal 
of  Strategic  Studies  [London],  6,  March  1983,  36-55. 

"Israel."  Pages  468-82  in  George  R.  Copley  (ed.),  Defense  and  For- 
eign Affairs  Handbook.  Washington:  Perth  Corporation,  1987. 

"Israel."  Pages  279-82  in  Richard  Sharpe  (ed.),  Jane's  Fighting 
Ships,  1988-89.  London:  Jane's,  1988. 

Israel.  Ministry  of  Immigrant  Absorption.  Military  Service.  Jerusa- 
lem: Publications  Department,  Ministry  of  Immigrant  Absorp- 
tion, 1987. 

Israel  Prison  Service:  Annual  Report  1986.  Jerusalem:  Israel  Prison  Ser- 
vice, 1987. 

Katsiaficas,  George.  "Behind  Bars  in  Israel,"  Mideast  Monitor,  5, 

No.  1,  1988,  1-4. 
Katzenell,  Jack.  "Minorities  in  the  IDF,"  IDF  Journal  [Jerusalem], 

4,  No.  3,  Fall  1987,  40-45. 
Keegan,John.  "Israel."  Pages  301-12  in  John  Keegan  (ed.),  World 

Armies.  (2d  ed.)  Detroit:  Gale  Research,  1983. 
King,  Barry  B.  "Crisis  Facing  Israeli  Arms  Industry,  "Jane's  Defence 

Weekly  [London],  January  9,  1988,  17-18. 


384 


Bibliography 


Kleiman,  Aaron  S.  Israel's  Global  Reach:  Arms  Sales  as  Diplomacy. 

Washington:  Pergamon-Brassey's,  1985. 
Levin,  Marlin,  and  David  Halevy.  "Israel."  Pages  3-25  in  Richard 

A.  Gabriel  (ed.),  Fighting  Armies:  Antagonists  in  the  Middle  East. 

Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1983. 
Levran,  Aharon,  and  Zeev  Eytan.  The  Middle  East  Military  Balance, 

1986.  Jerusalem:  Jerusalem  Post  and  Westview  Press,  1987. 
Lissak,  Moshe  (ed.).  Israeli  Society  and  its  Defense  Establishment:  The 

Social  and  Political  Impact  of  a  Protracted  Violent  Conflict.  London: 

Frank  Cass,  1984. 
Luttwak,  Edward,  and  Dan  Horowitz.  The  Israeli  Army.  New  York: 

Harper  and  Row,  1975. 
Michelson,  Benny.  "Born  in  Battle:  A  History  of  the  IDF  Through 

Four  Decades,"  IDF Journal  [Jerusalem],  No.  15,  Summer  1988, 

8-21. 

Middleton,  Drew.  "Israel's  Defenses:  As  Good  as  Ever?"  New  York 

Times  Magazine,  May  19,  1985,  60-65,  95-97. 
The  Military  Balance,  1988-1989.  London:  International  Institute 

for  Strategic  Studies,  1988. 
Milton,  T.R.  "Israel's  First  Line  of  Defense,"  Air  Force  Magazine, 

69,  No.  5,  May  1986,  62-67. 
Moss,  Norman.  "Vanunu,  Israel's  Bombs,  and  U.S.  Aid,"  Bulletin 

of  the  Atomic  Scientists,  44,  No.  4,  May  1988,  7-8. 
Neff,  Donald.  "Israel  Recycles  US  Arms  Technology,"  Middle  East 

International  [London],  No.  324,  April  30,  1988,  18-19. 
O'Brien,  William  V.  "Counterterrorism:  Lessons  from  Israel," 

Strategic  Review,  13,  No.  4,  Fall  1985,  32-44. 
Owan,  Clyde.  "The  Arab-Israeli  Naval  Imbalance,"  Proceedings, 

United  States  Naval  Institute,  109,  No.  3,  March  1983,  101-9. 
Peretz,  Don.  "Intifadeh:  The  Palestinian  Uprising,"  Foreign  Af- 
fairs, 66,  No.  5,  Summer  1988,  964-80. 
Peri,  Yoram.  Between  Battles  and  Ballots:  Israeli  Military  in  Politics. 

New  York:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1983. 
Reich,  Bernard.  The  United  States  and  Israel:  The  Dynamics  of  Influence. 

New  York:  Praeger,  1984. 
Reiser,  Stewart.  "The  Israeli  Police:  Politics  and  Priorities,"  Police 

Studies  [Henley-on-Thames,  United  Kingdom],  6,  No.  1,  Spring 

1983,  27-35. 

Richelson,  Jeffrey  T.  Foreign  Intelligence  Organizations.  Cambridge, 
Massachusetts:  Ballinger,  1988. 

Schiff,  Zeev.  "The  Government-Armed  Forces  Relationship." 
Pages  33-40  in  Steven  Heydemann  (ed.),  The  Begin  Era:  Issues 
in  Contemporary  Israel.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1984. 


385 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

 .  A  History  of  the  Israeli  Army:  1874  to  the  Present.  New  York: 

Macmillan,  1985. 

Schiff,  Zeev,  and  Ehud  Ya'ari.  Israel's  Lebanon  War.  New  York: 
Simon  and  Schuster,  1984. 

Shamir,  Yitzhak.  "Israel  at  40:  Looking  Back,  Looking  Ahead," 
Foreign  Affairs,  66,  No.  3,  1987-1988,  574-90. 

Sheffer,  Gabriel  (ed.).  Dynamics  of  Dependence:  U.S. -Israel  Relations. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 

United  Nations.  Center  for  Disarmament.  Study  on  Israeli  Nuclear 
Armament.  New  York:  United  Nations,  1982. 

United  States.  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World  Mili- 
tary Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1987.  (Ed.,  Daniel  Gallik.) 
Washington:  GPO,  1988. 

United  States.  Department  of  Defense.  Congressional  Presentation  for 
Security  Assistance  Programs,  Fiscal  Year  1989.  Washington:  Depart- 
ment of  Defense,  1988. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights 
Practices  for  1987.  (Report  Submitted  to  the  Committee  on  For- 
eign Affairs,  House  of  Representatives,  and  the  Committee  on 
Foreign  Relations,  United  States  Senate.)  Washington:  GPO, 
1988. 

 .  Patterns  of  Global  Terrorism,  1986.  Washington:  Department 

of  State,  1988. 

Yaniv,  Avner.  "The  Study  of  Israel's  National  Security."  Pages 
63-82  in  Ian  S.  Lustick  (ed.),  Books  on  Israel,  I.  Albany:  State 
University  of  New  York  Press,  1988. 

Yishal,  Yael.  "The  Jewish  Terror  Organization:  Past  or  Future 
Danger?"  Conflict,  6,  No.  4,  1986,  307-32. 


386 


Glossary 


agora  (pi.,  ago  rot) — An  Israeli  coin.  One  hundred  ago  rot  equal 
one  new  Israeli  shekel — NIS  (q.v.). 

aliyah  (pi.,  aliyot) — Literally,  going  up.  The  immigration  of  Jews 
to  Eretz  Yisrael,  or  the  Land  of  Israel.  Historians  have  classi- 
fied five  major  periods  of  immigration  to  Israel,  as  follows:  First 
Aliyah  (1882-1903);  Second  Aliyah  (1904-14);  Third  Aliyah 
(1919-23);  Fourth  Aliyah  (1924-31);  and  Fifth  Aliyah 
(1932-39). 

Asefat  Hanivharim  (Constituent  Assembly) — The  Yishuv's 
parliamentary  body  and  the  Knesset's  predecessor. 

Ashkenazim  (sing.,  Ashkenazi) — Jews  of  European  origin. 

bar — Son  of;  frequently  used  in  personal  names,  as  Bar-Lev. 

ben — Son  of;  frequently  used  in  personal  names,  as  Ben-Gurion. 

Bund — A  political  labor  organization  of  Jewish  workers  founded 
in  Vilna,  Lithuania  in  1897.  The  name  is  an  abbreviation  in 
Yiddish  for  The  General  Union  of  Jewish  Workers  in  Russia, 
Lithuania,  and  Poland.  The  Bund  opposed  Zionism  and  viewed 
Yiddish  as  the  only  secular  Jewish  language. 

Conservative  Jews — Accept  the  primacy  of  halakah  (q.v.)  but  have 
introduced  modifications  in  liturgy  and  ritual. 

Diaspora — Refers  to  the  Jews  living  in  scattered  communities  out- 
side Eretz  Yisrael  (the  Land  of  Israel)  during  and  after  the 
Babylonian  Captivity  (sixth  century  B.C.)  and,  especially,  after 
the  dispersion  of  the  Jews  from  the  region  after  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  Temple  by  the  Romans  in  A.D.  70  and  the  Bar- 
Kokhba  War  in  A.D.  132-35.  In  modern  times  the  word  refers 
to  the  Jews  living  outside  Palestine  or  present-day  Israel.  When 
the  word  is  applied — usually  lowercased — to  non-Jews,  such 
as  the  Palestinian  Arab  refugees,  the  word  describes  the  situa- 
tion of  the  people  of  one  country  dispersed  into  other  countries. 

Druze(s) — Member  of  a  religious  community  that  constitutes  a 
minority  among  Arabic- speaking  Palestinians  in  Israel.  Druze 
beliefs  contain  elements  of  Shia  (q.  v. )  Islam,  Christianity,  and 
paganism. 

fiscal  year  (FY) — Begins  April  1  and  ends  March  31;  FY  1988, 
for  example,  began  April  1,  1988,  and  ended  March  31,  1989. 

Gaza  Strip — former  Egyptian  territory  occupied  by  Israel  in  the 
June  1967  War. 

GDP  (gross  domestic  product) — A  value  measure  of  the  flow  of 
domestic  goods  and  services  produced  by  an  economy  over  a 


387 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


period  of  time,  such  as  a  year.  Only  output  values  of  goods 
for  final  consumption  and  intermediate  production  are  assumed 
to  be  included  in  final  prices.  GDP  is  sometimes  aggregated 
and  shown  at  market  prices,  meaning  that  indirect  taxes  and 
subsidies  are  included;  when  these  have  been  eliminated,  the 
result  is  GDP  at  factor  cost.  The  word  gross  indicates  that  deduc- 
tions for  depreciation  of  physical  assets  have  not  been  made. 
See  also  GNP. 

GNP  (gross  national  product) — GDP  (q.v.)  plus  the  net  income 
or  loss  stemming  from  transactions  with  foreign  countries.  GNP 
is  the  broadest  measurement  of  the  output  of  goods  and  ser- 
vices by  an  economy.  It  can  be  calculated  at  market  prices, 
which  include  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies.  Because  indirect 
taxes  and  subsidies  are  only  transfer  payments,  GNP  is  often 
calculated  at  factor  cost,  removing  indirect  taxes  and  subsi- 
dies. 

Golan  Heights — former  Syrian  territory  occupied  by  Israel  in  the 
June  1967  War  and  formally  annexed  by  Israel  in  1981. 

Greater  Syria — Term  used  by  historians  and  others  to  designate 
the  region  that  includes  approximately  the  present-day  states 
of  Jordan,  Israel,  Lebanon,  and  Syria  as  well  as  the  West  Bank. 

Green  Line — name  given  to  the  1949  Armistice  lines  that  consti- 
tuted the  de  facto  borders  of  pre- 1967  Israel. 

Haganah — Literally,  defense.  Abbreviation  for  Irgun  HaHaganah, 
the  Jewish  defense  organization  formed  in  1919-20  by  volun- 
teers in  early  Jewish  communities  as  home  guards  for  protec- 
tion against  hostile  bands.  It  became  the  military  arm  of  the 
Jewish  Agency  (q.  v. )  and  went  underground  during  the  British 
Palestine  Mandate  period  (1922-48)  when  it  was  declared  ille- 
gal. Along  with  the  Jewish  Brigade,  which  fought  with  the  Al- 
lied forces  in  World  War  II,  it  formed  the  nucleus  of  the  Israel 
Defense  Forces  (IDF)  established  in  1948. 

HaHistadrut  HaKlalit  shel  HaOvdim  B'Eretz  Yisrael  (General  Fed- 
eration of  Laborers  in  the  Land  of  Israel) — Commonly  known 
as  Histadrut.  Founded  in  1920,  this  national-level  organiza- 
tion was  also  the  nation's  largest  single  employer  after  the 
government.  Histadrut  performs  many  economic  and  welfare 
services  in  addition  to  trade  union  activities;  leadership  of 
Histadrut  has  generally  been  drawn  from  the  Labor  Party  and 
its  predecessors. 

halakah — Either  those  parts  of  the  Talmud  that  concern  legal  mat- 
ters or  an  accepted  decision  in  rabbinical  law.  Sometimes  trans- 
lated as  religious  law. 


388 


Glossary 


Hasid  (pi.,  Hasidim) — Member  of  a  religious  movement,  known 
as  Hasidism,  founded  in  the  eighteenth  century  by  Israel  Ben- 
Eliezer  Baal  Shem  Tov  in  Eastern  Europe.  The  movement, 
still  active  in  the  1980s,  stresses  the  importance  of  serving  God 
in  ecstasy  and  has  strong  mystical  elements. 

Irgun — An  abbreviation  for  Irgun  Zvai  Leumi  (National  Military 
Organization).  Established  in  1937  as  an  underground  Jewish 
extremist  organization,  also  known  as  Etzel,  derived  from  the 
pronounced  initials  of  its  Hebrew  name.  A  more  extreme  group, 
known  as  the  Stern  Gang  (q.v.),  broke  away  from  it  in  1939. 
Both  groups  were  especially  active  during  and  after  World  War 
II  against  the  British  authorities  in  Palestine.  Both  maintained 
several  thousand  armed  men  until  all  Israeli  forces  were  in- 
tegrated after  Israel  declared  its  independence. 

Israeli  pound — see  new  Israeli  shekel. 

Jewish  Agency — Representing  the  World  Zionist  Organization  as 
its  executive  body,  the  Jewish  Agency  works  in  close  coopera- 
tion with  the  government  of  Israel,  encourages  and  organizes 
immigration  of  Jews  into  the  country,  and  assists  in  their  so- 
cial and  economic  integration. 

Keren  HaYesod — Literally,  Israel  Foundation  Fund.  The  central 
fiscal  institution  of  the  World  Zionist  Organization  that  finances 
its  activities  in  Israel. 

kibbutz  (pi.,  kibbutzim) — An  Israeli  collective  farm  or  settlement, 
cooperatively  owned  and  operated  by  its  members  and  or- 
ganized on  a  communal  basis. 

Knesset — Israel's  parliament,  a  unicameral  legislature  of  120  mem- 
bers elected  by  universal  suffrage  for  four-year  terms;  the  Knes- 
set may,  through  legislative  procedures,  call  for  elections  before 
the  end  of  the  regular  term  or  postpone  elections  in  time  of  war. 

Ladino — Language  based  on  medieval  Castilian  but  with  Hebrew 
suffixes  and  written  in  Hebrew  alphabet;  developed  and  used 
by  Sephardim  (q.v.). 

Law  of  Return — Passed  by  Knesset  in  July  1950  stating  that  "Every 
Jew  has  the  right  to  come  to  (Israel)  as  an  olah  (new  im- 
migrant) . ' ' 

Lehi — Acronym  for  Lohamei  Herut  Israel,  literally,  Fighters  for 
Israel's  Freedom,  a  former  resistance  and  political  organiza- 
tion, created  in  1939  and  disbanded  under  pressure  in  1948. 
Commonly  known  as  the  Stern  Gang.  See  also  Irgun. 

moshav  (pi.,  moshavim) — A  cooperative  smallholders'  settlement 
of  individual  farms  in  Israel.  Individuals  own  their  farms  and 
personal  property.  Work  is  organized  collectively,  equipment 
is  used  cooperatively,  and  produce  is  marketed  jointly.  There 


389 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 

are  several  variants  including  the  moshav  ovdim,  a  workers' 
cooperative  settlement,  and  the  moshav  shitufi,  a  collective  small- 
holders' settlement  that  combines  the  economic  features  of  a 
kibbutz  (q.v.)  with  the  social  features  of  a  moshav.  Farming 
is  done  collectively,  and  profits  are  shared  equally. 

new  Israeli  shekel  (NIS) — In  September  1985,  the  new  Israeli  shekel 
(NIS)  went  into  circulation,  replacing  the  Israeli  shekel  that 
had  existed  since  1980.  (Before  1980  the  Israeli  currency  was 
called  the  Israeli  pound  or  lira.)  The  NIS  is  equivalent  to  1,000 
old  Israeli  shekels  and  is  divided  into  100  ago  rot.  The  require- 
ment for  the  NIS  stemmed  from  the  very  rapid  inflation  rate 
of  the  preceding  years,  which  also  resulted  in  dramatic  devalu- 
ation of  the  old  shekel  against  foreign  currencies;  for  example, 
from  1980  to  1985  the  old  shekel  lost  value  against  the  United 
States  dollar  by  25,000  percent.  As  of  August  1986,  the  NIS 
was  no  longer  pegged  to  the  United  States  dollar  but  rather 
to  a  trade-weighted  basket  of  foreign  currencies:  60  percent 
United  States  dollar,  20  percent  West  German  deutschmark, 
10  percent  British  pound,  5  percent  French  franc,  and  5  per- 
cent Japanese  yen.  The  currency  notes  in  circulation  are  5, 
10,  50,  and  100  NIS.  The  approximate  exchange  rate  for  the 
new  Israeli  shekel  and  the  United  States  dollar  in  1988  was  NIS 
1.6  =  US$1.00. 

Oriental  Jews — See  Sephardim. 

Orthodox  Jews — Adherents  of  that  branch  of  Judaism  that  insists 
on  a  rigid  and  strict  observance  of  halakah  (q.  v. )  and  an  em- 
phasis on  national  ritual  conformity. 

Pale  of  Settlement — Area  of  twenty-five  provinces  of  tsarist  Rus- 
sia within  which  Jews  were  allowed  to  live,  outside  of  which 
they  could  reside  only  with  specific  permission. 

Palmach — Abbreviation  for  Pelugot  Mahatz,  shock  forces.  In 
British  Palestine  and  until  late  1948,  it  was  a  commando  sec- 
tion of  the  Jewish  military  forces.  Organized  in  1941  to  pro- 
vide the  Haganah  (q.v.)  with  a  mobile  force,  it  consisted  of 
young  men  mostly  from  kibbutzim,  who  took  military  train- 
ing while  working  part-time  at  farming,  serving  in  coopera- 
tion with  the  British  army,  without  pay  or  uniforms. 

Reform  Jews  (sometimes  called  Progressive  or  Liberal  Jews) — 
Emphasize  rationalism  and  ethical  behavior,  reject  the  abso- 
lute authority  of  halakah,  and  assert  the  private  religious  na- 
ture of  Judaism. 

sabra  (pi.,  sabras) — From  Hebrew  word  meaning  "a  prickly  pear," 
but  adapted  to  mean  a  native-born  Israeli  Jew. 


390 


Glossary 


Sephardim  (sing.,  Sephardi;  adj.,  Sephardic) — Basically  Jews  whose 
families  were  of  Spanish  or  Portuguese  origin,  wherever  resi- 
dent; historically,  they  tended  to  speak  Ladino  (q.  v. )  or  Arabic. 
The  term  is  often  applied  to  those  Jews  who  are  not  Ashkena- 
zim.  Since  the  1960s,  Sephardim  have  often  been  called  Oriental 
Jews. 

Shabbat — Sabbath,  observed  from  Friday  sunset  to  Saturday 
sunset. 

Shia  (or  Shiite,  from  Shiat  Ali,  the  Party  of  Ali) — A  member  of 
the  smaller  of  the  two  great  divisions  of  Islam.  The  Shias  sup- 
ported the  claims  of  Ali  and  his  line  to  presumptive  right  to 
the  caliphate  and  leadership  of  the  Muslim  community,  and 
on  this  issue  they  divided  from  the  Sunnis  (q.v.).  Shias  revere 
Twelve  Imams,  the  last  of  whom  is  believed  to  be  hidden  from 
view. 

Stern  Gang — See  Lehi. 

Sunni  (from  sunna,  meaning  orthodox) — A  member  of  the  larger 
of  the  two  great  divisions  of  Islam.  The  Sunnis  supported  the 
traditional  method  of  election  to  the  caliphate  and  accepted  the 
Umayyad  line.  On  this  issue  they  divided  from  the  Shias  (q.v.) 
in  the  first  great  schism  within  Islam. 

Talmud — Literally,  teaching.  Compendium  of  discussions  on  the 
Mishnah  (the  earliest  codification  of  Jewish  religious  law,  largely 
complete  by  200  A.D.),  by  generations  of  scholars  and  jurists 
in  many  academies  over  a  period  of  several  centuries.  The 
Jerusalem  (or  Palestinian)  Talmud  mainly  contains  the  discus- 
sion of  the  Palestinian  sages.  The  Babylonian  Talmud  incor- 
porates the  parallel  discussions  in  the  Babylonian  academies. 

Torah — The  first  five  books  of  the  Bible:  Genesis,  Exodus,  Leviti- 
cus, Numbers,  and  Deuteronomy;  often  called  the  Pentateuch 
or  the  Law  of  Moses.  In  a  broader  sense,  the  entire  body  of 
traditional  religious  teaching  and  study. 

ulpan  (pi.,  ulpanim) — center  for  study,  particularly  for  the  study  of 
Hebrew  by  adult  immigrants  to  Israel. 

West  Bank — The  area  of  Palestine  west  of  the  Jordan  River  seized 
from  Jordan  by  Israel  in  the  June  1967  War.  In  1988  it  re- 
mained Israeli-occupied  territory  and  was  not  recognized  by 
the  United  States  government  as  part  of  Israel.  Israelis  refer 
to  this  area  as  Judea  and  Samaria. 

World  Zionist  Organization  (WZO) — Founded  in  August  1897  at 
the  First  Zionist  Congress  called  by  Theodor  Herzl  at  Basel, 
Switzerland.  The  movement,  named  after  Mount  Zion  in 
Jerusalem,  was  designed  to  establish  in  Palestine  a  national 
home  for  Jews  scattered  throughout  the  world.  Since  1948  its 


391 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


efforts  have  been  devoted  primarily  to  promoting  unity  of  the 
Jewish  people  and  raising  funds.  In  1929  it  established  the  Jew- 
ish Agency  (q.v.).  Until  1960  its  formal  name  was  Zionist 
Organization,  but  word  World  added  in  new  constitution. 

yeshiva  (pi.,  yeshivot) — Traditional  rabbinical  school  for  the  study 
of  Talmud  (q.v.). 

Yiddish — A  language  based  on  medieval  Rhineland  German  used 
by  Jews  in  eastern,  northern,  and  central  Europe  and  in  areas 
to  which  Jews  from  these  regions  migrated.  It  also  contains  ele- 
ments of  Hebrew,  Russian,  and  Polish,  and  it  is  commonly 
written  in  Hebrew  characters. 

Yishuv — The  Jewish  community  in  Palestine  before  statehood.  Also 
used  in  referring  to  the  period  between  1900  and  1948. 


392 


Index 


Abbasids,  16 

Abdul  Aziz  ibn  Saud  (king  of  Saudi 

Arabia),  45 
Abdul  Hamid  (sultan),  30 
Abdullah  (king  of  Transjordan)  (see  also 

Amir  Abdullah),  57,  232,  235 
Abraham,  6,  8,  252 
Abu  Musa  faction,  278 
Abu  Nidal  organization,  78,  263,  277, 

278 
Acre,  16 

administrative  agencies  (see  also  Chief 
Rabbinical  Council),  102 

administrative  districts.  See  districts,  ad- 
ministrative 

Aelia  Capitolina,  14 

Afghanistan,  78 

African  countries,  203,  243,  320 
Agranat  Commission,  66,  67,  299 
agreements,  xxiv,  33-34,  35,  52,  67-68, 
72,  158,  172,  235,  236,  255-56,  322 
agreements  for  the  preservation  of  the  sta- 
tus quo,  105-6 
agricultural  sector,  xvii,  161-62 
Agudat   Israel,    xxvii-xxviii,    96,  99, 
105-6,  212,  220,  355;  founding  and 
role  of,  222-23;  Hasidic  factions  of, 
223;  religious  schools  of,  131 
Ahad  HaAm.  See  Ginsberg,  Asher  (Ahad 
HaAm) 

Ahdut  HaAvodah  (Unity  of  Labor),  40, 

41,  213,  355 
air  force.  See  Air  Corps  (Hel  Avir) 
airline,  167 
airports,  xviii,  167 
Al  Ahd  (The  Covenant  Society),  32 
Al  Aqsa  Mosque,  16 
Alexander  II  (tsar  of  Russia),  4,  20-21 
Alexander  III  (tsar  of  Russia),  21 
Alexander  the  Great,  11 
Al  Fatah  (Movement  for  the  Liberation 

of  Palestine)  (see  also  Black  September 

group),  62,  258,  260,  275,  277-78; 

activity  and  factions  of,  276,  279 
Al  Fatat  (The  Young  Arabs),  32 
Algeria:  Al  Fatah  guerrillas  in,  278 
Al  Haq  (Law  in  the  Service  of  Man),  xxxi 
Aliyah:  First  (1882-1903),  24,  28;  Second 


(1904-14),  29,  30,  57,  204;  Third 
(1919-23),  37-38;  Fourth  (1924-31), 
42 

aliyah  (aliyot):  defined,  89 

Alkalai,  Judah  (rabbi),  22 

Allenby,  Edmund,  35 

Allon,  Yigal,  74,  208,  216,  229 

Al  Mutawakkil,  16 

Aloni,  Shulamit,  217 

Al  Qunaytirah,  67 

Altalena  affair,  53,  255 

Aman.  See  Intelligence  Branch  of  general 

staff  (Agaf  Modiin:  Aman) 
Amana,  93,  225-26 
Ames-Yissum,  155 
Amir  Abdullah,  32-33,  36,  45 
Amir  Faysal,  33,  35,  36 
Amit,  Meir,  229 
Amital,  Yehuda  (rabbi),  224 
Ammon,  10 
Am  Oved,  127 
Anglicans,  120 

Anglo-American  Committee  of  Inquiry 

(1946),  50 
Anglo-French  Joint  Declaration,  37 
Anti-Lebanon  Mountains,  87 
Antiochus  IV,  11 

anti-Semitism,  3,17,  20-21;  in  French  so- 
ciety, 25;  in  Germany,  44,  48-49;  of 
Russian  tsars,  20-21 

Anzar  2,  335 

Arab  Democratic  Party,  227,  355 
Arab  forces:  invade  Israel  (1948),  xxiv,  51 
Arab  Higher  Committee  (AHC),  xxiv, 
44,  45;  rejects  UN  resolution  for  par- 
tition, 51;  rejects  White  Paper  provi- 
sions, 47 
Arabian  Desert,  7,  15 
Arab  independence:  geographic  area  for 

settlement,  33 
Arab-Israeli  conflict  (see  also  Palestinian- 
Israeli  conflict);  United  States  position 
on,  320;  in  Yishuv  (Palestine),  42-43 
Arab  Journalists'  Association,  247 
Arab  League  (League  of  Arab  States):  po- 
sition on  UN  resolution  regarding  par- 
tition, 50-51 
Arab  Legion,  xxiv,  52 


393 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Arab  Revolt.  See  Palestinian  Revolt 
Arabs:  attacks  on  Jewish  communities  by, 

253-54;  opposition  to  immigration  by, 

4 

Arabs  in  Israel  {see  also  Gaza  Strip;  oc- 
cupied territories;  West  Bank),  120-21; 
impact  of  intifadah  on,  xxxii;  military 
government  for  and  discrimination 
against,  54-57;  population  distribution 
of,  93;  role  in  political  process  of,  212, 
226-27 

Arab  states:  nationalism  of,  37;  rejection 
of  Reagan  Plan,  237;  relations  of  Israel 
with,  xxix,  5 

Arab  Studies  Center,  xxxiv 

Arab  summit  meeting,  Morocco  (1974), 
67 

Arafat,  Yasir,  62,  238-39;  activity  against, 
278;  efforts  to  resolve  Palestinian-Israeli 
conflict  by,  xxxii-xxxiv;  as  head  of 
Palestine  Liberation  Army,  263;  as  head 
of  PLO,  275;  in  1982  Lebanon  invasion 
and  siege,  264-65 

Arens,  Moshe,  180,  219-20,  265 

Argentina,  244 

Arian,  Asher,  195 

Arkia  Israeli  Airlines,  167 

Ark  of  the  Covenant,  10 

Armament  Development  Authority 
(Rafael),  315-16 

armed  forces  (see  also  Israel  Defense  Forces 
(IDF));  combat  units  of,  xix;  composi- 
tion of,  xix;  legal  framework  for,  255 

Armenians,  84,  120 

armistice  agreement  (1949):  with  Egypt, 
Lebanon,  Transjordan,  Syria,  xxiv,  52, 
255 

armistice  agreement  (1985):  after  Leba- 
non invasion,  xxix 

Armistice  Line  (1949).  See  Green  Line 

Armoni,  Yitzhak,  226 

Artillery  Corps,  310 

Ashdod  (port),  166 

Ashkenazim.  See  Jews,  Ashkenazic 

Ashqelon  (oil  terminal),  167 

Asia  Minor  Agreement  (Sykes-Picot  Agree 
ment),  33-34 

Asian  states,  244 

Asquith,  Herbert,  34 

Assad,  Hafiz  al,  76,  78,  263 

assassination,  48,  57,  235 

assimilation:  of  Jews  in  European  society, 
xxiii,  4,  17,  20 


Association  for  Beduin  Rights  in  Israel, 

228 
Assyria,  10 

Assyrian  Empire,  8,  10-11 

Atlee,  Clement,  50 

Atomic  Energy  Commission,  189 

attorney  general,  194 

Australia,  159,  244 

autonomy  concept,  271-72 

Babylon,  10 
Babylonians,  11 
Bahaism,  120 

Baker,  James  A.,  Ill,  xxviii,  xxxvii 
balance  of  payments,  xvii,  141,  173 
Balfour,  Arthur  James,  34,  44 
Balfour  Declaration  (1917),  33-35;  Brit- 
ish commitment  under,  xxiv;  declared 
void  by  Arabs,  36-37;  White  Paper 
ending  British  commitment  to  Jews,  47 
Baltic  Sea,  20 
Baniyas  River,  87 
Bank  HaPoalim,  41,  163,  203 
banking  system:  bank  groups  in,  163;  ex- 
pansion of,  164,  166;  Jewish  Agency 
ownership  in,  142 
Bank  Leumi  Le  Israel,  163 
Bank  of  Israel  (central  bank),  163 
Barak,  Ehud,  314 
Bar-Ilan  University,  96,  133-34 
Bar-Kochba  Rebellion,  14,  15 
Bar-Lev,  Haim,  229 
Bar-Lev  Line,  64 
Bar-On,  Mordechai,  217 
Basic  Law:  the  Knesset  (1958),  182, 
190-92 

Basic  Law:  Israeli  Lands  (1960),  182 
Basic  Law:  the  Presidency  (1964),  182, 
184-85 

Basic  Law:  the  Government  (1968),  182 
Basic  Law:  the  State  Economy  (1975), 
182 

Basic  Law:  the  Army  (1976),  182,  280, 
312 

Basic  Law:  Jerusalem  (1980),  182 
Basic  Law:  the  Judiciary  (1984),  182 
Basic  Law:  the  Elections  (1988),  182,  225 
Basic  Law:  (proposed)  Human  Rights, 
xxvii 

Basic  Laws  (see  also  constitution;  laws  to 
legitimize  government),  xviii,  182-83, 
184 


394 


Index 


Battle  of  Hattin,  16 
beduins,  120,  121-22;  in  military  service, 
294 

Beersheba  (Beersheva),  87 

Beersheba  prison,  335 

Begin,  Menachem,  xxv,  6,  48;  actions 
related  to  Lebanon  of,  76;  government 
of,  70-75,  180;  as  leader  of  Herut,  60, 
207;  as  leader  of  Irgun,  53;  as  leader 
of  Likud  Bloc,  180,  208;  policy  for  oc- 
cupied territories  of,  6;  rejection  of  Rea- 
gan Plan  by,  237;  in  Stern  Gang,  254 

Beirut,  16;  siege  of  (1982),  xxix,  264 

Bene  Akiva,  133,  134 

Bene  Yisrael,  109 

Ben-Gurion,  David:  chief  architect  of 
IDF,  41,311;  founds  Ahdut  HaAvodah 
(Unity  of  Labor),  40;  founds  Poalei 
Tziyyon,  211;  guarantees  for  Judaism 
in  State  of  Israel,  105-6;  as  head  of  Jew- 
ish Agency,  47;  integrates  Palmach  into 
IDF,  255;  leads  Labor  Zionists,  xxiii, 
4,  29-30,  205;  one  of  founders  of  State 
of  Israel,  3;  relationship  with  Irgun  and 
Lehi  of,  50;  resigns  (1953)  and  is  rein- 
stated (1955),  58;  supports  immigration 
to  Palestine,  48 

Ben-Gurion  University  of  the  Negev, 
133-34 

Ben-Meir,  Yehuda,  221 

Ben-Natan,  Rafael,  222 

Ben-Zakki,  Yohanan,  14 

Ben-Zvi,  Yitzhak,  205;  founds  Poalei 
Tziyyon,  211 

Bernadotte,  Folke,  52 

Betar,  42-43;  355 

Bet  Shean,  9 

Bevin,  Ernest,  50 

Bible:  Book  of  Exodus  in,  9;  Book  of 

Judges  in,  9 
Biltmore  Program,  48 
biotechnology  industry,  155-56 
Biqa  (Bekaa)  Valley,  77 
Bir  Zeit  University,  75 
Black  Panthers,  69,  116,  212 
Black  Sea,  20 

Black  September  group,  276,  328 
Border  Police:  in  Gaza  Strip  and  West 

Bank,  301;  responsibilities  of,  324 
borders,  7,  85;  defenses  along,  278-79, 

281,  283 
Borochov,  Ber,  29,  211 
Brandt,  Willi,  242 


Brecher,  Michael,  228 

Brezhnev,  Leonid,  66,  70 

Britain  (see  also  British  Mandate):  ap- 
proves partition  (1937),  45:  Balfour 
Declaration  of,  xxiv,  33-37,  47;  man- 
date over  Palestine  of,  36;  opposition 
to  immigration  by,  4;  relations  with, 
241;  role  in  Middle  East  of,  32-38;  as 
source  of  coal,  159 

British  Mandate  (1920-48),  4,  36-38; 
Palestinian  Revolt,  44-47;  Arab  com- 
munity under,  38-40;  derivation  of 
legal  code  from,  301,  331,  333;  Jewish 
community  under,  40-44;  policy  dur- 
ing prison  system  set  up  under  legal 
code  of,  335;  rebellion  by  Jews  against 
authority  of,  50;  relinquishment  of 
(1948),  51 

British  Mandate  Authority,  55 

budget,  government:  defense  spending  in, 
306-9 

buffer  zone:  occupied  territories  as,  269 
Bulgaria,  241 
Bund,  21 

Bureau  of  Scientific  Relations  (Leshkat 
Kesher  Madao:  Lekem),  330 

Bureau  of  the  Registration  of  Inhabitants, 
107,  108 

Burg,  Yosef,  221,  222 

Bush,  George,  xxxiv,  xxxvii 

Byzantines,  16 

cabinet  (see  also  Ministerial  Comittee  for 
Security  Affairs),  185,  187-89,  230 

Cairo-Amman  Bank,  232 

caliphate,  33 

Cameroon,  243,  320 

Camp  David  Accords  (1978),  xix,  xxix, 
6,  224,  231,  233,  237,  241,  324;  failure 
of,  272;  provisions  of,  72 

Canaan  (the  promised  land),  6-7,  9 

Cape  Carmel,  85 

Carter,  Jimmy,  70,  72,  73,  236-37 

Catholics,  Greek,  120 

Catholics,  Roman,  120 

cease-fire:  in  Israeli  invasion  of  Lebanon 
(1982),  264;  with  PLO  (1981),  276;  in 
War  of  Attrition,  63,  236;  in  June  1967 
War,  259;  in  October  1973  War, 
65-66,  261 

Center  for  Research  and  Strategic  Plan- 
ning, 327 


395 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Central  African  Republic,  243 
central  bank.  See  Bank  of  Israel  (central 
bank) 

Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  189 

central  hills  or  highlands,  85,  86 

Central  Institute  for  Intelligence  and  Spe- 
cial Missions  (Mossad  Merkazi  Le 
Modiin  Uletafkidim  Meyuhadim: 
Mossad),  xx,  327-28 

Central  Religious  Camp,  224 

chemical  industry,  156-57 

Chen.  See  Women's  Army  Corps  (Chen) 

Chief  Rabbinate,  220 

Chief  Rabbinical  Council,  102,  104,  220 

Children  of  Israel,  8 

China,  People's  Republic  of,  244;  mili- 
tary equipment  sales  to,  269,  318 

Christianity,  13,  17;  official  religion  of 
Roman  Empire,  15 

Christians:  in  Israel,  xxvi,  84,  88;  reli- 
gious courts  and  councils  for,  104,  195; 
responsibility  for  military  service,  294 

Churchill,  Winston,  36,  47 

Ciskei  homeland,  320 

Citizens'  Rights  Movement  (CRM),  212, 
355;  ideological  position  of,  217 

Civil  Defense  Corps,  xx,  310 

Civil  Guard,  xx,  324-25 

civilian  authority,  229 

civil  rights:  court  system  to  safeguard, 
183-84;  groups  promoting,  228 

Civil  Rights  in  Israel,  228 

Civil  Servants'  Union,  190 

civil  service  {see  also  Local  Authorities' 
Order  (Employment  Service)  (1963)), 
189-90 

Civil  Service  Board,  190 

Civil  Service  Law  (1959),  189 

climate,  87-88 

clothing  industry,  157-58 

coalitions,  political:  Likud  Bloc  coalition, 
70;  National  Unity  Government  as, 
xix,  xxviii;  of  religious  groups,  220-21 

coastal  plain,  85 

Cohen,  Eli,  328 

Cohen,  Geula,  224 

Cohen,  Ran,  217 

Combat  Engineering  Corps,  310 

Command  and  Staff  School,  293 

Committee  of  Union  and  Progress,  30 

communications.  See  telecommunications 

communism,  212,  227 

Communist  Party  of  Palestine,  227 


Comprehensive  Anti-Apartheid  Act 
(1986),  United  States,  319 

comptroller,  state,  192-93,  198 

conferences,  36 

conscription,  xxx,  288-90 

Constantine  (emperor  of  Rome),  15 

Constantinople,  15,  16 

constitution  {see  also  Proclamation  of  In- 
dependence); argument  over,  xxvii,  53, 
181-84;  Basic  Laws  as  representation 
of,  xviii,  xxvii,  182-83 

construction  industry,  158 

cooperatives:  affiliated  with  Histadrut, 
142 

Corfu,  Chaim,  233 
Cote  d'lvoire,  243 

Council  for  Peace  and  Security,  xxxii- 
xxxiii 

Council  of  Settlements  in  Judea  and 
Samaria  (Yesha),  226 

Council  of  Torah  Sages,  104,  223,  355 

councils,  regional,  199 

Courts  Law  (1957),  183,  194,  331 

courts-martial,  300,  305 

court  system  {see  also  High  Court  of 
Justice;  National  Labor  Court;  Su- 
preme Court);  civilian,  193,  331-33; 
Civil  Service  Disciplinary  Court,  190; 
district  courts  in,  196,  331;  Hasidic, 
223;  military,  193,  196,  198,  300,  331, 
332;  Palestinian,  331;  religious,  193, 
194,  195;  to  safeguard  civil  rights, 
183-84;  specialized  courts  in,  193-94; 
structure  of,  194-98 

Criminal  Procedure  Law  (1965),  331 

Crusaders,  16 

currency,  xvii,  163,  173 

customary  law,  Arab:  derivation  of  legal 
codes  from,  194 

Cyrus  the  Great  (emperor  of  Persia),  11 

Czechoslovakia:  arms  to  Egypt  (1955), 
256,  315,  320;  Yishuv  receives  arms 
from  (1948),  51 


Damascus,  65 

Damascus  (Aram-Damascus),  10,  16 
Dan  River,  87 
Dardanelles,  33 
Dari,  Arieh  (rabbi),  223 
Daroushe,  Abdul  Wahab,  227 
David  (king  of  Israelites):  unification  and 
expansion  by,  9-10;  as  warrior,  252 


396 


Index 


Dayan,  Moshe,  xxx,  58,  60,  64,  66,  208, 
229,  232;  role  in  June  1967  War  of, 
259;  role  in  October  1973  War  of, 
66-67 

Dayanim  Law  (1955),  194 

Dayr  Yasin,  51 

Dead  Sea,  xvi,  14,  87,  156 

Dead  Sea  Bromine,  157 

Dead  Sea  Works,  157 

debt:  domestic,  146,  150,  153-54;  exter- 
nal, xxvii,  146,  173 

Declaration  of  Independence,  55,  104 

Declaration  of  the  Establishment  of  the 
State  of  Israel  (1948),  3,  181,  184 

Defense  (Emergency)  Regulations:  re- 
striction of  movement  and  land  ex- 
propriation under,  56;  zone  provisions 
of,  55 

defense  industries,  314-16 

Defense  Service  Law,  290 

defense  spending.  See  spending,  defense 

Deganya  kibbutz,  29,  128 

Degel  HaTorah  (Torah  Flag),  212,  224 

Dekel,  Michael,  xxxvii 

Democratic  Front  for  the  Liberation  of 
Palestine  (DFLP),  275,  279 

Democratic  Movement  for  Change 
(DMC)  {see  also  Shinui  (Change)),  208, 
217,  355 

Democratic  Zionists,  211 

Department  of  Military  Government,  301 

detention  centers,  military,  335 

deterrence  policy,  268-69 

development  towns,  91,  115 

DFLP.  See  Democratic  Front  for  the 
Liberation  of  Palestine  (DFLP) 

diamond  industry,  156 

Diaspora,  3,  11,  14-15,  83;  fund-raising 
in,  200;  lack  of  military  tradition  in, 
252;  loans  and  grants  from,  xxvii,  173; 
responsibility  of  Jews  in,  3,  204;  as  spe- 
cial interest  group,  228 

Dimona,  270,  317 

diseases,  136 

districts,  administrative  (see  also  govern- 
ment, local;  municipalities),  xix,  198- 
99 

Dizengoff  (shipping  company),  167 
Dome  of  the  Rock,  16 
dormant  war  concept,  267 
Dreyfus,  Alfred,  xxiii,  25 
Druckman,  Chaim  (rabbi),  222 
Druze  Reconnaissance  Unit,  294 


Druze  Religious  Courts  Law  (1962),  194 
Druzes:  conscription  for,  294;  in  Israel, 

xxvi,  84,  88;  religious  courts  and  coun- 
cils for,  104,  194;  treatment  and  activity 
in  Israel  for,  122,  125 

East  Africa,  27 

Eastern  Europe.  See  Europe,  Eastern 

East  Jerusalem.  See  Jerusalem,  East 

Eban,  Abba,  xxxiii,  60 

economic  assistance:  foreign,  xxviii,  55; 
for  some  public  services,  151-52;  from 
United  States,  66,  67,  234,  322 

Economic  Stabilization  Program  (1985), 

xxvii,  146,  150,  154,  173-74,  307 
economy:  performance  of:  1948-72,  141, 

143-46;  performance  of:  1973-81,  144- 
46;  problems  of,  xxxv-xxxvi;  quasi- 
socialist  nature  of,  xxvi-xxvii;  sectors 
of:  1948-72,  141-43 
Edom,  10 

Edot  Mizrah.  See  Jews,  Sephardic 
educational  system  (see  also  schools),  xvi; 
for  Arabs,  132,  133;  function  of  IDF 
as  part  of,  308-10;  funding  and  spend- 
ing for,  151-52;  separate,  state- 
subsidized,  131;  structure  and  require- 
ments of,  132-33;  transformation  of 
state  religious,  132-33 
EEC.  See  European  Economic  Commu- 
nity (EEC) 
Egrof  Magen  (Defending  Shield),  280 
Egypt,  6,  10;  actions  against  Israel 
(1955-56),  256;  aircraft  destruction 
(1967),  259;  armistice  agreement  with 
(1949),  52,  255;  armistice  with  Israel 
(1948),  52;  attack  (1970)  by  Israel  of, 
63;  boundary  with,  85;  build-up  of  mili- 
tary force,  273-74;  Canaan  boundary 
with,  7;  diminished  threat  of,  272;  in- 
vades Israel  (1948),  51,  255;  Israeli 
troops  and  planes  in,  62,  63;  mediator 
in  Palestinian-Israeli  conflict,  xxix; 
migration  of  Semites  to,  8;  military  al- 
liance with  Iraq,  Jordan,  and  Syria 
(1967),  259;  ostracized  by  Jordan,  73; 
perceived  as  enemy,  267;  relations  of 
Soviet  Union  with,  239;  relations  with, 
231-32;  role  of  Britain  in,  32;  Sinai 
Peninsula  restored  to  (1982),  73,  78, 
300;  as  source  of  oil,  159;  Soviet  mili- 
tary assistance  for,  258;  strategy  to 


397 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


recover  territory,  63-64;  war  with 
Yemen,  60;  in  Yom  Kippur  attack, 
64-65 

Egyptian-Israeli  Disengagement  Agree- 
ment, First.  See  Israeli-Egyptian  Disen- 
gagement Agreement,  First 

Eichmann,  Adolph,  331-32 

Eisenhower,  Dwight  D.,  58 

Eisenstadt,  S.  N.,  83 

Eitan,  Rafael,  6,  77,  78,  224,  229;  role 
in  Begin  administration  of,  311 

El  Al  airline,  167 

Elat  (port),  87,  167 

Elazar,  Daniel,  125 

Elbit,  155 

Elected  Assembly  (Asefat  Hanivharim), 

40,  205,  210 
elections:  on  local  level,  198 
Electoral  Alignment  (Maarakh),  213, 

216,  357 

electoral  system,  xxviii;  reform  for,  xviii, 

xxxvii,  228-29 
electronics  industry,  155,  316 
Elitzur,  Uri,  225 
El  Yam  (shipping  company),  167 
Emergency  Regulations  (Cultivation  of 

Waste  Lands)  Ordinance,  56 
Emigration:  from  Israel,  89,  146;  of  Jews 

from  Eastern  Europe,  4,  21 
energy  industry,  159 
Entebbe  raid,  84 

enterprises:  private,  xx,  154,  315-17; 
state-owned,  xix,  315-17;  state/private, 
315 

Equatorial  Guinea,  243 
Eretz  Yisrael,  5,  27 
erosion,  88 

Eshkol,  Levi,  59-60,  205,  259;  adminis- 
tration of,  61 
Ethiopia,  243 
ethnic  groups,  112-16 
Et  Taiyiba,  55 
Et  Tira,  55 

Etzel.  See  Irgun  Zvai  Leumi  (National 
Military  Organization):  Etzel 

Europe,  Eastern,  240-41 

Europe,  Western  {see  also  European  Eco- 
nomic Community  (EEC)),  241-42 

European  Economic  Community  (EEC), 
158;  trade  with,  170,  172 

exchange  rate  system,  xvii,  173-74 

executive  department,  xviii,  184-89 

Exile,  5,  11 


Exodus,  8-9 

exports,  xvii,  170;  of  agricultural  prod- 
ucts, 162;  of  arms  and  security  services, 
xx,  318;  to  United  States  under  GSP 
and  MFN  status,  172 

expropriation  of  land.  See  land  ownership 

extensive  threat  concept,  267-68 

Ezekiel,  11 

Ezra,  11 

Falashas,  109,  243 

family  planning,  91 

Fatimids,  16 

Fay  sal.  See  Amir  Faysal 

Faysal-Weizmann  agreement,  35 

fedayeen.  See  guerrillas 

Fibronics,  155 

financial  system,  162-66 

First  International  Bank  of  Israel,  163 

flooding,  88 

forced  labor  (corvees),  10 

Ford,  Gerald  R.,  67 

foreign  policy:  expansion  of,  xxviii-xxix; 
influences  on,  xix,  230-44 

France:  as  arms  supplier,  315,  320;  man- 
date over  Syria  of,  36;  relations  with, 
241 

Frankel,  William,  245 

Free  Center,  356 

free  trade  area  (FT A),  172 

Gabon,  243 

Gadna.  See  Youth  Corps  (Gdudei  Noar: 
Gadna) 

Gahal  (Freedom-Liberal  Bloc),  218,  219, 

356 
Galilee,  15 

Galilee,  Israel,  208,  229 

Galilee  Area:  Arab  population  in,  xxvi,  55 

Garibaldi,  Giuseppe,  29 

Gaza  area,  52 

Gaza  Strip  (see  also  intifadah):  civilian  ad- 
ministration in,  199-200,  301,  303; 
criminal  justice  in,  333-34;  election 
plan  for,  xxviii,  xxxiv;  Israeli  invasion 
(1967),  259;  Israeli  reprisal  raids  in, 
256;  Jews  in,  300-301;  under  military 
jurisdiction  of  Israel,  xxx,  300-301, 
303;  occupation  of  (1967),  xvi,  5,  85; 
Palestinian  Arabs  in,  55,  93;  prisons  in, 
335;  problems  of  population  (1967),  73; 


398 


Index 


restrictions  and  punishments  for  peo- 
ple in,  xxxi;  settlements  and  new  set- 
tlements in,  xxx vii,  93 
Gaza  Valley,  15 

Gemayel,  Bashir.  See  Jumayyil,  Bashir 
Gemayel,  Pierre.  See  Jumayyil,  Pierre 
General  Federation  of  Laborers  in  the 

Land  of  Israel  (HaHistadrut  HaKlalit 

shel  HaOvdim  B'Eretz  Yisrael:  Hista- 

drut).  See  Histadrut 
General  Security  Service  (Sherut  Bitahon 

Kelali:  Shin  Bet  or  Shabak),  xx,  279, 

301,  327,  329-30 
General  Service  Corps,  310 
General  System  of  Preferences  (GSP),  172 
geography,  xvi,  85 

Germany,  Federal  Republic  of,  241-42 
Geva,  Eli,  312-13 
Ghana,  243 

Ghazi  (king  of  Iraq),  45 
Gibly,  Benjamin,  58 
Ginsberg,  Asher  (Ahad  HaAm),  26-27, 
28 

Golan  Heights:  military  positions  along, 
271,  283;  occupation  and  annexation 
of  (1967),  xvi,  85;  occupation  by  Israel 
of,  75;  water  diversion  facility  in,  60 

Golani  Infantry  Brigade,  289 

Gordon,  Aaron  David,  28-29,  211 

Goren,  Shmuel,  303 

government,  local  (see  also  districts,  ad- 
ministrative; Local  Government  Cen- 
ter; municipalities;  Project  Renewal), 
198-99 

government  intervention:  decline  in, 
xxvii,  151;  in  investment  financing, 
164,  166 

Government  Names  Committee,  189 
Government  Press  Office,  189 
Government  Secretariat,  189 
Granot,  Elazar,  216 
Greater  Syria,  36-37 
Great  Sanhedrin,  13-14 
Greek  language,  13 

Greek  Orthodox:  as  minority  group,  120; 

religious  courts  and  councils  for,  104 
Green  Line,  5,  55,  126 
gross  domestic  product,  144 
gross  national  product,  xvii,  143 
GSP.  See  General  System  of  Preferences 

(GSP) 
Guard  Corps,  310 

guerrilla  activity  (see  also  Al  Fatah  (Move- 


ment for  the  Liberation  of  Palestine)): 
Arab  (fedayeen),  62,  76;  by  Egypt 
(1955),  256;  by  Egypt  (1965),  258;  lo- 
cation of  forces  in  1982,  277-78;  of  New 
Zionist  Organization,  218;  Palestinian, 
xxix,  62,  63,  276;  by  Shia  groups  in  Le- 
banon, 265-66;  from  Syria  and  Jordan 
(1964),  258 

Gulf  of  Aqaba,  58,  87,  231-32;  Israeli 
fleet  in,  284 

Gur,  Mordechai,  xxxiii,  216 

Gush  Emunim  (Bloc  of  the  Faithful)  (see 
also  Amana;  Herut;  Tehiya),  5,  68, 
74-75,  101,  211,  221-22,  224,  356; 
ideology,  beliefs,  and  activity  of, 
225-26,  279;  as  special  interest  group, 
228 

Gush  Emunim  Underground  (Jewish 
Terror  Organization),  279 


Habash,  George,  275 

Habib,  Philip,  77,  263,  276 

Hadassah  Hospital,  62 

Haddad,  Saad,  262 

Hadera  (coal  terminal),  167 

Hadrian  (emperor  of  Rome),  14 

Haetzni,  Eliakim,  224 

Haganah  (Irgun  HaHaganah:  Defense 
Organization)  (see  also  Palmach  (Pelu- 
got  Mahatz:  Shock  Forces)),  41,  42-43, 
48,  205,  253;  as  de  facto  army  (1948), 
255,  310;  Palmach  reserve  of,  47,  255, 
310 

HaHistadrut  HaKlalit  shel  HaOvdim 
B'Eretz  Yisrael.  See  Histadrut 

Haifa,  24,  38,  39;  fund  raising  program 
of,  199;  port  and  harbor  of,  57,  166 

Haifa  Bay,  85 

Haifa  University,  133-34 

Hajj  Amin  al  Husayni,  38-39,  44-45,  51 

HaKibbutz  HaArtzi  (Kibbutz  of  the 
Land),  128 

HaKibbutz  HaDati,  128 

HaKibbutz  HaMeuhad  (United  Kibbutz 
Movement),  128 

halakah  (religious  law)  (see  also  religi- 
ous courts),  xxv-xxvi,  95,  96,  99,  105, 
106,  107,  110;  as  basis  for  legal  code, 
194 

Hamas  (Islamic  Resistance  Movement), 

xxx-xxxi,  279 
Hammer,  Zevulun,  221,  222 


399 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


HaPoel   HaMizrahi  (Spiritual  Center 

Worker),  221,  356 
HaPoel  HaTzair  (The  Young  Worker), 

29,  41,  211,  356 
Harari,  Izhar,  182 
Harari  decision,  182 
Harel,  Israel,  226 
Harkabi,  Yehoshafat,  xxxiii 
Harun  ar  Rashid,  16 
Hasbani  River,  87 
Hashimite  (Hashemite)  family,  32 
HaShomer  (The  Watchmen),  29,  253 
Hasidic  Jews,  22 
Hasmonean  Dynasty,  13 
Hasmoneans,  5 

Hassan  II  (king  of  Morocco),  232-33 

havlaga  (self-restraint),  254 

health  care  system,  xvi,  134,  136;  fund- 
ing and  spending  for,  151-52 

Hebrew  language,  8,  27,  83;  taught  as 
part  of  IDF  training,  308-9 

Hebrews,  9 

Hebrew  University,  40,  62,  133-34 

Hebron,  38,  42 

Hellenistic  period,  13 

Herod  the  Great  (king  of  Judah),  5,  13 

Herut  (Freedom  Movement),  53,  60,  134, 
356;  Blue- White  (Tehelet-Lavan)  fac- 
tion of,  218-19;  Sephardic  Jews  support 
for,  206-7 

Herzl,  Theodor,  xxiii,  25-26,  27,  28,  211 

Herzog,  Chaim,  xxxvi,  xxxvii,  185,  229 

Hess,  Moses,  22,  24 

Hevrat  HaOvdim  (Society  of  Workers), 
41,  203 

Hibbat  Tziyyon  (Lovers  of  Zion),  24,  27, 
83 

High  Court  of  Justice,  195-96 
high  technology  industry,  315 
Hijaz  province,  32 
Hillel,  14 

Hills  of  Galilee,  xvi 

Histadrut  (General  Federation  of  Labor- 
ers in  the  Land  of  Israel  (HaHistadrut 
HaKlalit  shel  HaOvdim  B'Eretz  Yisrael: 
Histadrut))  (see  also  Afro- Asian  Institute; 
Bank  HaPoalim,  Hevrat  HaOvdim  (So- 
ciety of  Workers)),  40-41,  69;  activities 
of,  127-28;  Civil  Servants'  Union  in, 
190;  financing  of  Haganah  by,  253;  as 
interest  group,  228;  as  national  organi- 
zation, 202-3;  pension  and  insurance 
funds  of,  136,  137;  relation  to  Mapai 


of,  205;  as  sector  of  quasi-socialist  econ- 
omy, 142 

Histadrut  Conference,  203 

Hitler,  Adolf,  44,  48 

Hittite  Empire,  7 

Hizballah  (Party  of  God)  movement, 

xxx-xxxi,  278 
Holocaust,  xxiv,  5,  48-49,  101;  effect  on 

Zionism  of,  5 
Holy  Land,  3,  11,  17,  27 
Horam,  Yehuda,  240 
House  of  Omri,  10 
housing,  146 
Hula  Basin,  87 

human  rights,  xxxi,  xxxviii,  183-84,  331, 
333 

Hungary,  240-41 
Husayn,  Saddam,  xxxviii 
Husayni,  Faisal,  xxxiv 
Husayn  ibn  Ali,  Sharif,  xxiv,  32-33 
Husayni  (Husseini)  family,  38 
Husayn-McMahon  correspondence,  33, 
35 

Hussein  (king  of  Jordan),  xxix,  60,  63, 
232,  303;  denounces  Camp  David  Ac- 
cords, 73;  role  in  Arab-Israeli  conflict 
of,  237-39 


immigrants  (see  also  Aliyah):  conscription 
for  new,  288,  292,  308-10;  institutions 
to  integrate,  130,  137,  308-10;  into 
Palestine,  xxiv,  4,  24;  from  Poland,  42; 
Sephardic  Jews  as,  xxv 

immigration:  decreased  rate  of,  146;  ef- 
fect on  population  age  distribution,  88; 
effect  on  population  growth  of,  89;  into 
Israel  (1948-61),  53-54;  from  Soviet 
Union,  xxviii-xxix 

imports,  xvii,  170;  of  coal,  159;  of  mili- 
tary supplies,  143-44,  153,  314-15;  of 
oil,  144,  159,  233 

income  distribution,  69 

independence  (1948),  xxiv,  4,  51 

India,  244;  role  of  Britain  in,  32,  49 

Indian  Ocean,  317 

Indonesia,  318 

Industrial  Development  Bank  of  Israel, 

163 

industrial  sector,  xvii;  arms  production 
and  defense-related  industries  in,  xxx, 
314-15;  biotechnology  industries  in, 
155-56;  chemicals,  rubber  and  plastics 


400 


Index 


industries  in,  156-57;  clothing  and  tex- 
tile industries  in,  157-58;  construction 
industry  in,  158;  diamond  industry  in, 
156;  domination  by  government  and 
Histadrutof,  142-43,  154-55;  electron- 
ics industry  in,  155;  energy  industries 
in,  159;  government  policy  for,  147; 
private  ownership  in,  154;  quality  and 
education  of  labor  force  in,  xxvi;  struc- 
ture of,  147-48 

inflation,  xxvii,  68,  141,  173-74,  180 

infrastructure,  xxvi,  166-69 

Institute  for  Biological  Research,  189 

institutions,  national,  200,  205 

Intelligence  Branch  of  general  staff  (Agaf 
Modiin:  Aman),  xx,  327,  328-29 

intelligence  sector,  320,  327 

interest  groups,  227-28 

International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA),  317 

intifadah  (Palestinian  uprising),  xxvii, 
xxxviii,  133,  200,  238,  252,  303-6;  im- 
pact of,  xxxi-xxxvi;  participation  of 
Palestinian  groups  in,  xxx-xxxi,  279 

invasion:  of  Lebanon  (June  1982),  6 

invasions,  8 

investment,  146-47 

Iran:  arms  sales  to  and  military  coopera- 
tion with,  318-20;  Islamic  Revolution 
in,  78;  relations  with,  233-34;  support 
in  Iran-Iraq  War  by  Syria  and  Libya, 
78;  supports  Hizballah  movement,  278 

Iran-Iraq  War,  78 

Iraq:  after  Israeli  armistice,  52;  air  force 
performance  of,  275;  Al  Fatah  guerril- 
las in,  278;  destruction  of  Osiraq 
nuclear  reactor  in,  77,  231,  286, 
322-23;  Faysal  as  king  of,  36;  fear  of 
Israel,  xxxviii;  invades  Israel  (1948), 
255;  military  alliance  with  Egypt,  Jor- 
dan, and  Syria  (1967),  259;  as  military 
threat,  xxxvi,  273;  relations  with,  234; 
support  in  Iran-Iraq  War  by  Jordan 
and  Saudi  Arabia,  78;  use  of  surface- 
to-surface  missiles  (SSMs)  by,  269 

Irgun  Zvai  Leumi  (National  Military  Or- 
ganization: Etzel)  {see  also  Herut  (Free- 
dom Movement)),  43,  48,  53,  218,  254, 
255;  connection  with  Revisionist 
Zionism  of,  310-11 

irrigation  project.  See  National  Water 
Carrier 

Islam:  nationalism  of,  37 


Islamic  fundamentalist  groups,  279 
Islamic  Jihad  (Holy  War)  faction,  xxx- 
xxxi,  279 

Israel:  boycott  by  Arabs  of,  57-58;  crea- 
tion of  state  (1948),  xxiv,  3-5,  51,  83; 
invasion  by  Arab  forces  (1948),  xxiv, 
51 

Israel  Aircraft  Industries,  143,  316 
Israel  Broadcasting  Authority  (IB A),  189, 
246 

Israel  Chemicals  Limited  (ICL),  143,  157 
Israel  Defense  Forces  (Zvah  Haganah 
Le  Yisrael:  Zahal),  xxv,  53;  action  in 
Lebanon  (1982),  229-30;  air  force 
strength,  organization,  and  responsibil- 
ity, 285-87;  attacks  on  Syria  of,  60; 
broadcasting  station  of,  246;  chain  of 
command  for,  280-81;  conditions,  pay, 
and  benefits  in,  294-96;  conduct  in 
dealing  with  intifadah,  304-6;  delin- 
quents in,  299,  300,  310;  Department 
of  Military  Government  in,  301 ;  Druze 
Reconnaissance  Unit  in,  294;  as  educa- 
tional and  socializing  factor,  308-10; 
Gadna  functional  command  within, 
287-88;  in  Gaza  Strip  and  West  Bank, 
301;  geared  for  "extensive  threat," 
267-68;  ground  forces  strength,  loca- 
tion, organization,  and  responsibility 
in,  281,  283;  growth  of,  255;  military 
law  in,  300;  military  superiority  of,  272; 
Minorities  Unit  in,  294;  Nahal  func- 
tional command  within,  287;  navy 
strength,  organization,  and  responsibil- 
ity in,  283-85;  rank,  insignia,  awards, 
and  uniforms  in,  296-97;  reserve  sys- 
tem in,  290,  299,  300,  308;  role  in  so- 
ciety of,  xxx ;  in  southern  Lebanon 
security  zone,  180;  strength  of,  251; 
Trackers  Unit  in,  294;  training  for, 
290-94;  Women's  Army  Corps  in, 
289-90 

Israel  Diamond  Exchange,  156 

Israel  Discount  Bank,  163 

Israel-EEC  Preferential  Agreement  (1977), 

158,  170,  172 
Israel  Foundation  Fund  (Keren  HaYesod), 

202 

Israeli-Egyptian  Disengagement  Agree- 
ment, First  (1974),  67;  Second  (1975), 
68 

Israeli-Syrian  Disengagement  Agreement, 
First  (1974),  67;  Second  (1975),  67 


401 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Israel  Labor  Party.  See  Labor  Party 
Israel  Military  Industries  (IMI),  143,  316 
Israel  Police,  xx,  189;  Border  Police  as 
subsidiary  of,  xx,  324;  in  Gaza  Strip 
and  West  Bank,  301,  323-24;  organi- 
zation and  law  enforcement  responsi- 
bilities of,  323-26;  reform  for,  326-27 
Israel  Precious  Stones  and  Diamonds  Ex- 
change, 156 
Israel  Prison  Service,  334-36 
Italy,  47 

Jabotinsky,  Vladimir,  xxiii,  29-30, 
41-42,  48,  70,  211,  218;  establishes 
Irgun  Zvai  Leumi  (Etzel),  254 

Jacob-Israel  (son  of  Isaac),  8 

Jaffa  (Yafo),  37 

Jaffee  Center  for  Strategic  Studies  (Tel 
Aviv  University),  xxxiii 

Japan,  244 

Jeremiah,  11 

Jericho  missile,  317-18 

Jerusalem:  as  administrative  division,  16; 
as  capital,  xv;  captured  from  Turks,  35; 
as  City  of  David,  10;  Crusaders  in,  16; 
division  in  1948  of,  52;  fund-raising 
program  of,  199;  Great  Sanhedrin  in, 
13-14;  as  Islamic  holy  city,  16;  re- 
named, 14;  reunification  after  June 
1967  War,  5;  siege  of  (A. D. 66),  14 

Jerusalem,  East:  occupation  and  annex- 
ation of  (1967),  xvi,  xxxvii,  5,  85,  300; 
uprising  among  Arabs  in,  303-6 

Jew  (definition),  106-8 

Jewish  Agency  (see  also  Haganah;  Israel 
Foundation  Fund  (Keren  HaYesod); 
United  Jewish  Appeal  (UJA);  World 
Zionist  Organization  (WZO)),  36,  37, 
40,  48,  105;  financing  for  Haganah  by, 
253;  as  national  institution,  200-202; 
Oriental  Jews'  interest  in,  69;  quasi- 
governmental  nature  of,  142;  rejects 
British  White  Paper  provisions,  47; 
work  to  integrate  immigrants  of,  130 

Jewish  Agency  (Status)  Law  (1952),  201 

Jewish  Brigade,  48,  254 

Jewish  Legion,  253 

Jewish  National  Fund  (Keren  Kayemet), 

26,  40,  57,  201,  202 
Jewish  National  Home,  36 
Jewish  Settlement  Police  (Notrim),  253 
Jewish  state,  27 


Jewish  Terror  Organization.  See  Gush 
Emunim  Underground  (Jewish  Terror 
Organization) 

Jews:  Arab  attack  on,  42;  in  Eastern 
Europe,  20;  emancipation  in  Western 
Europe  for,  17;  in  Israel,  88;  Nazi 
persecution  of,  48 

Jews,  Ashkenazic,  54,  88-89;  differen- 
tiated from  Oriental  Jews,  84;  domi- 
nance in  Israeli  society,  xxv;  dominant 
group  on  kibbutzim,  128-29;  as  ethnic 
group,  113-14;  role  in  development  of 
Zionism,  22,  24 

Jews,  Oriental.  &*Jews,  Sephardic 

Jews,  Orthodox  (see  also  Agudat  Israel 
Party;  Council  of  Torah  Sages;  Torah 
Religious  Front),  17,  91;  arguments 
with  secular  Jews  of,  xxv;  importance 
of  religion  in  politics  for,  220;  power 
of,  220-24 

Jews,  Sephardic  (see  also  Black  Panthers), 
xxv,  22,  54,  89;  changing  political  po- 
sition of,  68-70;  decrease  in  immigra- 
tion of,  146;  defection  from  Labor 
Party  of,  69-70;  in  development  towns, 
91;  differentiated  from  Ashkenazic 
Jews,  84,  88-89;  dominance  in  Pales- 
tine of,  xxv;  education  in  IDF  for, 
308-10;  effect  of  influx  of,  5-6;  as  eth- 
nic group,  113-14;  geographic  and  cul- 
tural orientation  of,  206;  religious 
beliefs  of,  95;  representation  in  military 
support  services  of,  309-10 

Jews  in  Ethiopia,  243 

Jews  in  Iran,  234 

Jews  in  Morocco,  232 

Jews  in  South  Africa,  243 

Jiryis,  Sabri,  56 

Johnson-Lodge  Immigration  Act,  42 
Johnston  Plan,  235 

Joint   Economic   Development  Group 

(United  States-Israeli),  235 
Joint  Political-Military  Group  QPMG), 

1983,  234,  321-22 
Joint  Security  Assistance  Group  (United 

States-Israeli),  235 
joint  ventures,  316 
Jonathan,  9 

Jordan  (see  also  Transjordan),  52;  aircraft 
destruction  (1967),  259;  Al  Fatah  guer- 
rillas in,  278;  arms  from  Britain  and 
United  States  for,  258;  attempt  to  dis- 
lodge PLO  by,  63;  border  with,  85; 


402 


Index 


build-up  of  military  force,  273-74;  cre- 
ation of  Hashemite  Kingdom  of,  57; 
derivation  of  legal  code  of,  333;  fires  on 
Jerusalem,  60;  Israeli  invasion  (1967), 
259;  major  base  of  PLO  in,  63;  mili- 
tary alliance  with  Iraq,  Egypt,  and 
Syria  (1967),  259;  relations  with,  xix, 
xxix,  232;  support  of  Iraq  in  Iran-Iraq 
War,  78;  weak  military  threat  of,  272; 
West  Bank  rule  by,  73-74 

Jordanian  Village  Management  Law,  303 

Jordan  Rift  Valley,  xvi,  85,  86;  military 
position  along,  271 

Jordan  River,  85,  87;  water  diversion 
from,  60,  235,  258 

Josephus,  14 

Joshua,  5,  9,  252 

Judah,  9,  10,  14 

Judaism:  argument  over  role  in  Israel  of, 
84;  campaign  against,  11;  intellectual- 
spiritual  development  of,  15;  Ortho- 
dox courts  of,  104;  reformulation  by 
Zionism  of,  22;  Torah  as  focal  point  of, 
11 

Judaism,  American:  Conservative  and 
Reform  versions  of,  97 

Judaism,  Israeli:  influence  of,  99-101; 
110-11;  Orthodox  and  non-Orthodox, 
95-97;  role  of  traditionalists  in  97-98; 
role  of  Zionists  in,  98-99 

Judas  (Judah)  Maccabaeus,  13 

Judean  Hills,  xvi,  85,  86 

judges,  religious  and  civil,  194-95 

Judges  Law  (1953),  183,  194 

judicial  system  {see  also  court  system;  legal 
codes),  xviii,  193-98,  331-33;  deriva- 
tion of  procedures  in,  194 

Judiciary  Law  (1984),  193,  194 

Jumayyil,  Bashir,  76,  78,  263 

Jumayyil,  Pierre,  262 

June  1967  War.  See  War  of  June  1967 

Jurisdiction  in  Matters  of  Dissolution  of 
Marriages  (Special  Cases)  Law  (1969), 
194 

jury  system,  194,  333 


Kach  (Thus),  211,  212,  222,  224-25;  Ter- 
ror Against  Terror  organization  of,  280 
Kahan  Commission  (1982),  265 
Kahane,  Meir  (rabbi),  224-25,  280 
Kaissar,  Israel,  203 
Kalisher,  Zevi  Hirsch  (rabbi),  22 


Karaites,  109 

kashrut,  106 

Katzir,  Ephraim,  270 

Katznelson,  Berl,  205 

Katz-Oz,  Avraham,  233 

kehilot,  20,  21 

Kenya,  243 

Ketziot  detention  center,  335 

Khartoum  resolution,  62 

Khomeini,  Sayyid  Ruhollah  Musavi 
(ayatollah),  234,  319 

Kibbutz  Industries  Association,  157 

kibbutz/kibbutzim,  29,  128,  211;  agricul- 
tural activity  of,  161;  federations  of, 
128;  population  of,  91;  quality  of  life 
in,  83;  role  in  regional  councils  of,  199; 
as  special  interest  group,  228;  special 
role  of,  204-5 

Kinneret-Negev  Conduit.  See  National 
Water  Carrier 

Kissinger,  Henry,  65-67,  236 

Kitchener,  Horatio  H.,  32-33 

Knesset,  xviii,  53;  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Security  Committee,  230,  311,  312;  or- 
ganization, functions,  and  responsibil- 
ity of,  190-92 

Knesset  Elections  Law  (1969),  183 

Kollek,  Teddy,  xxxviii 

Kook,  A.  I.  (rabbi),  98 

Koor  Industries,  154 

Kupat  Holim  (Sick  Fund),  127,  136 

Laam  (For  the  Nation),  218,  356 

Labor  Alignment,  101 

labor  force:  education  level  in,  148,  150; 
employment  in  defense  industries  of, 
316;  quality  and  education  of,  xxvi; 
reduction  in  agricultural,  162;  substi- 
tution for  capital  of,  147;  use  of  Arabs 
in,  xxvi 

Labor  Party,  xxv,  179,  356;  in  coalition 
government,  180-81;  decline  of,  68-70; 
end  of  dominance  by,  70,  216;  loss  of 
power  for,  5-6;  retired  military  in,  229 

Labor  Zionism,  xxiii,  4,  24,  61,  357;  Ben- 
Gurion  role  in,  40-41;  development 
and  dominance  of,  28-29,  204,  213-14; 
opposition  to,  29-30;  settlement  pol- 
icy of,  5;  synthesis  of  Marxism  and 
Zionism  in,  28 

Lahat,  Shlomo,  229 

Lake  Kinneret.  See  Lake  Tiberias 


403 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Lake  Tiberias,  87 

LaMifneh  (To  the  Turning  Point),  222 
Landau,  Moshe,  333 
Landau  Commission,  333 
Land  Day,  126 

Land  Development  Authority,  57 

Land  of  Israel  Movement,  224 

land  ownership:  in  Israel  (after  1948), 
56-57;  in  Palestine,  39-40 

languages:  Arabic  in  Israel,  xvi,  55,  246; 
English,  xvi;  Hebrew  as  official,  xvi, 
55,  83,  246;  Ladino  dialect,  113;  Yid- 
dish dialect,  xvi-xvii,  113 

Laser  Industries,  155 

Latin  American  states,  244 

Lavon,  Pinchas,  58 

Lavon  affair,  58,  229 

law,  religious,  195 

Law   and   Administrative  Ordinance 

(1948),  53 
Law  for  the  Encouragement  of  Capital  In- 
vestment (1967),  147,  164 
Law  of  Return  (1950),  53,  106,  183 
laws  to  legitimize  government,  183 
League  of  Arab  States.  See  Arab  League 

(League  of  Arab  States) 
League  of  Nations:  Council  approval  of 
British  Mandate,  36;  Covenant  of,  36, 
38 

Lebanon:  Al  Fatah  guerrillas  in,  276-78; 
armistice  agreement  with  (1949),  255; 
armistice  with  Israel  (1948),  52;  border 
with,  85;  Civil  War  (1975-76),  76,  262; 
invades  Israel  (1948),  51,  255;  Israeli 
activity  in,  76-78;  Israeli  invasion  of 
(1982),  xxix,  229,  231,  237,  277;  Israeli 
retaliation  for  PLO  attacks  in,  262; 
militia  support  from  Israel  in,  262; 
PLO  in,  6;  security  zone  in  (1983),  266 

legal  codes,  194 

legislative  process,  192 

Lehi.  See  Stern  Gang  (Lohamei  Herut 
Israel:  Lehi) 

Lekem.  See  Bureau  of  Scientific  Relations 
(Leshkat  Kesher  Madao:  Lekem) 

Lesotho,  242 

Levi,  David,  220 

Levi,  Yitzhak  (rabbi),  222 

Levinger,  Moshe  (rabbi),  5,  68,  225 

Liberia,  243,  320 

Libya:  sponsors  terrorism,  278;  support 

in  Iran-Iraq  War  of  Iran,  78 
Lichtenstein,  Tovah  (rabbi),  224 


Likud  (Union)  Bloc  {see  also  Free  Center; 
Gahal  (Freedom-Liberal  Bloc);  Laam 
(For  the  Nation);  Herut  (Freedom 
Movement)),  xxv,  179,  211-12;  in  coa- 
lition government,  70,  180-81;  comes 
to  power,  5-6,  180,  208;  fall  of  govern- 
ment of  (1990),  xxxvi;  ideological  po- 
sition of,  217-20;  retired  military  in, 
229;  satellite  parties  of,  212,  217-18 

Litani  River,  76;  boundary  on,  15 

Little  Triangle,  55 

Lloyd  George,  David,  34 

Local  Authorities'  Order  (Employment 
Services)  (1963),  199 

Local  Government  Center,  199 

Lod  airport,  167 

Lotz,  Wolfgang,  328 

Lughod,  Ibrahim  Abu,  238 

Maarakh  (Alignment),  213,  357 
MacDonald,  Ramsay,  44 
Macedonia,  1 1 

McMahon,  Henry,  xxiv,  333 

Maki  (Communist  Party  of  Israel:  Miflaga 
Komunistit  Yisraelit),  227,  357 

Malawi,  242 

Malaysia,  318 

mamluks,  16 

mandate  system,  35-36 

Mapai  (Mifleget  Poalei  Eretz  Yisrael: 
Mapai)  {see  also  Labor  Party),  xxvii,  41, 
58,  357;  connection  with  Haganah  and 
Palmach  of,  310;  as  party  of  Ashkena- 
zim,  206-7;  role  in  Israeli  life  of,  205 

Mapam  (Mifleget  Poalim  Meuchedet: 
United  Workers'  Party),  134,  212,  213, 
216-17  ,  357 

Maritime  Fruit  Carriers,  167 

Maronite  Christian  militia,  261-62,  265, 
278 

Maronites,  Christian:  in  Lebanon,  76,  125; 

religious  courts  and  councils  for,  104 
Marxism  synthesis  with  Zionism,  28 
maskalim,  21,  24 
Massada,  14 
Mecca,  16,  32 
media,  244-47 
Medina,  16,  32 

Mediterranean  Sea:  coastline  on,  xvi,  7, 

15,  85;  Israeli  fleet  in,  284 
Meir,  Golda,  62,  64,  91,  109,  116,  205; 

administration  of,  208,  216,  218 


404 


Index 


Melman,  Yossi,  232 
merkaz  klita  (absorption  agency),  130 
Merneptah  (king  of  Egypt),  8 
Mesopotamia:  Canaan  boundary  with,  7 
Mexico,  159,  244 

MFN.  See  most  favored  nation  (MFN) 
status 

Middle  Eastern  states:  partition  into  Brit- 
ish and  French  zones,  33-34;  relations 
with,  231-34 

migration:  of  Jews  to  cities,  20;  of  Jews 
to  Egypt,  8 

Miles- Yeda,  155 

military  assistance:  from  United  States, 

66,  153,  234,  320-22 
military  authority:  limits  to  political  ac- 
tivity by,  229 
military  budget.  See  spending,  defense 
Military  Court  of  Appeal,  300 
military   equipment,    xix,    281,  283, 
284-86;  purchase  of  foreign,  316;  sales 
of,  318-20;  from  United  States,  320 
military  government:  for  Arabs  in  Israel 
(after  1948),  54-57;  for  Arabs  in  oc- 
cupied territories,  301,  323-24, 333-34 
Military  Justice  Law  (1955),  300,  332 
military  sector:  role  in  politics  of,  xxx, 
310-14 

military  supplies:  imports  of,  143-44 

militias  in  Palestine,  253 

millet  system,  102 

Milson,  Menachem,  75 

Ministerial  Committee  for  Security  Af- 
fairs, 311 

Ministry  of  Agriculture,  132 

Ministry  of  Defense,  55,  56,  58,  193, 
280-81,  300,  301,  316;  Defense  Sales 
Office  of,  319 

Ministry  of  Education  and  Culture,  130, 
132,  199,  246,  287 

Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  230 

Ministry  of  Health,  136 

Ministry  of  Housing,  68 

Ministry  of  Immigrant  Absorption,  130, 
137 

Ministry  of  Interior,  221,  303,  323, 

334-35 
Ministry  of  Justice,  193 
Ministry  of  Labor,  132 
Ministry  of  Religious  Affairs,  102,  104, 

193,  220,  221 
Ministry  of  Social  Welfare,  136-37 
Minorities  Unit,  294 


minority  groups,  120-27 

Mirza  Husayn  Ali  (Baha  Ullah),  120 

missionary  schools,  17 

Mitterrand,  Francois,  241 

Mitzna,  Amran,  xxxv,  314 

Mizrahi  (Spiritual  Center)  (see  also  Na- 
tional Religious  Party),  99,  102,  211, 
221,  358 

Moab,  10 

Moledet  (Homeland),  224,  358 
monetary  policy,  173-74 
Morasha  (Heritage),  222,  358 
Morocco,  232-33,  318 
Mosaic  Code,  9 
Moses,  9,  10 

moshav  (pi.,  moshavim):  agricultural  ac- 
tivity in,  161;  federations  of,  129; 
founding  of,  211;  population  and  activ- 
ity of,  91,  129;  quality  of  life  in,  83;  role 
in  regional  councils  of,  199;  as  special 
interest  group,  228;  special  role  of, 
204-5 

Mossad.  See  Central  Institute  for  Intelli- 
gence and  Special  Missions  (Mossad 
Merkazi  le  Modiin  Uletafkidim  Meyu- 
hadim:  Mossad) 

most  favored  nation  (MFN)  status,  172 

mountains  and  hills,  85 

Mount  Gilboa,  9 

Mount  Hermon,  87 

Mount  Meron,  xvi,  85 

Mount  Scopus,  62 

Mount  Sinai,  9 

Moyne,  48 

Muari,  Muhammad,  227 
Mubarak,  Husni,  xxix 
Multinational  Force:  in  Beirut  (1982),  265 
municipalities,  198-99 
Muslim  Brotherhood,  78 
Muslim  Circassians,  294 
Muslims:  in  Israel,  xxvi,  84,  88;  in  Leb- 
anon, 76 

Muslims,  Sunni:  Circassian  minority, 
120;  religious  courts  for,  104,  194 

Nabulus,  xxxi,  16 
Nafsu,  Izat,  330 

Nahal.  See  Pioneer  Fighting  Youth  (Noar 

Halutzi  Lohem:  Nahal) 
Nahal  HaArava  (Wadi  al  Arabah),  87 
Nahal  Soreq,  317 
Napoleon,  16-17 


405 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Napoleonic  Code,  194 
Nashashibi  family,  38-39 
Nasser,  Gamal  Abdul,  58-59,  60,  62; 
orders  attack  on  Israel,  60;  War  of  At- 
trition of,  62-63 
Nathan,  Abie,  xxxiii 
National  Council  for  Research  and  De- 
velopment, 189 
National  Council  (Vaad  Leumi),  40,  205 
National  Defense  College,  293 
National  Guidance  Committee,  73,  75 
National  Insurance  Act  (1953),  136-37 
nationalism  {see  also  Gush  Emunim):  anti- 
Semitism  factor  of,  17,  20;  Arab  forms 
of,  30,  32,  36-37,  45;  of  Palestinians, 
6,  75;  religious,  61,  74-75;  rise  of  Zi- 
onism from,  3-4;  Turkish  form  of,  30, 
32;  varieties  of,  37 
nationality:  defined,  107,  108-9 
Nationality  Law  (1952),  106,  183 
National  Labor  Court,  196 
National  Parks  Authority,  189 
National  Police  School,  325 
National  Religious  Party  (NRP)  {see  also 
Bene  Akiva;  HaKibbutz  HaDati),  102, 
104,  108,  128,  212,  220-21,  358;  found- 
ing and  development  of,  221;  LaMifneh 
faction  in,  222;  Youth  Faction  of,  221- 
22,  225 

national  security:  concepts  of,  xxix-xxx, 
266-72;  deterrence  as  main  factor  for, 
268;  factors  necessary  for,  xxv,  251;  as 
rationale  for  actions  against  Arabs,  5 

National  Unity  Government,  xix,  xxviii, 
xxxiii,  60,  180,  231,  232,  239 

National  Water  Carrier,  60,  86,  258 

naval  air  arm,  285 

naval  fleet,  284 

Navon,  Yitzhak,  185,  216 

navy.  See  Israel  Defense  Forces;  Sea  Corps 
(Hel  Yam);  underwater  commandos 

Nazi  war  crimes,  331-32 

Nebuchadnezzar,  1 1 

Neeman,  Yuval,  224 

Negev  Desert,  xvi,  56,  85,  86 

Negev  Phosphates,  157 

Nesher,  154 

Netanyahu,  Benjamin,  220 
Neturei  Karta,  95 

newspapers:  in  Arabic,  246;  in  Hebrew 

and  English,  245,  247 
New  Zealand,  244 
Nicholas  I  (tsar),  20 


Nigeria,  243 
Nile  Valley,  8 

NIS.  See  currency;  exchange  rate  system 
Nixon,  Richard  M.,  63,  66,  321 
Non-Aligned  Movement,  244 
non-Jews  in  Israel  {see  also  Arabs  in 

Israel),  84,  88 
Northern  Area  (Galilee  Area),  55 
North  Yemen.  See  Yemen  Arab  Repub- 
lic (North  Yemen) 
NRP.  See  National  Religious  Party  (NRP) 
nuclear  weapons:  Israeli  capability  in, 
270-71;  research  for,  317 


occupied  territories  (see  also  Gaza  Strip; 
West  Bank):  activity  of  Shin  Bet  in, 
329-30;  Arab  and  Jewish  population 
in,  93,  300-301;  criminal  justice  in, 
333-34;  East  Jerusalem  as,  xxxvii,  5, 
85,  300;  expansion  after  1948  invasion 
into,  255-56;  justification  for,  5;  mili- 
tary government  and  courts  of,  301, 
323-24,  333-34;  Palestinian  Arab  court 
system  in,  331,  333-34;  settlements  and 
new  settlements  in,  xxxvii,  68,  93;  of 
June  1967  War,  259,  300-301 

October  1973  War.  See  War  of  October 
1973 

Odessa,  20,  21 

offensive  strategy:  as  deterrent,  268 
Office  of  the  Prime  Minister,  189 
Office  of  the  State  Comptroller  {see  also 

State  Comptroller  Law  (1958)),  xviii, 

192-93 
oil  as  political  weapon,  66 
oil  industry,  159 
oil  refineries,  143 

ombudsman/ombudswoman.  See  comp- 
troller, state 
Operation  Litani,  76,  276,  323 
Operation  Peace  for  Galilee  (1982),  xxix, 

6,  78,  263-64 
Organization  of  African  Unity,  242 
Oriental  Jews.  See  Jews,  Sephardic 
Orthodox  Jews.  See  Jews,  Orthodox 
Osiraq  nuclear  reactor,  77,  231,  286, 
322-23 

Ottoman  Decentralization  Party,  32 
Ottoman  Empire,  16-17;  control  of  Arab 

lands  by,  30;  derivation  of  legal  codes 

from,  194,  331,  333 
Ozen,  Avner,  225 


406 


Index 


Pale  of  Settlement,  20,  21,  22,  61 
Palestine  (see  also  Balfour  Declaration; 
Britain):  Arab  population  of,  30;  under 
British,  French,  and  Russian  control 
(1916),  34-35,  38;  British  Mandate  for 
(1923),  36-44;  Crusaders  in,  16;  divi- 
sion of,  16;  as  geographic  unit,  15;  Jew- 
ish immigration  to,  24,  29,  37-38,  42, 
44,  47-48;  Jewish  nation-state  in,  xxiii, 
3;  Labor  Zionist  movement  in,  4; 
recommended  partition  of,  45;  remain- 
ing portion  after  1948  war,  52;  strategic 
importance  of,  34;  support  for  settle- 
ment in,  24;  UN  General  Assembly 
Resolution  (1947)  for  partition,  50;  UN 
partition  plan  for  (1947),  50-51 
Palestine  Center  for  Human  Rights, 
xxxviii 

Palestine  Liberation  Army  (PLA),  263, 

275;  evacuates  Beirut  (1982),  265 
Palestine  Liberation  Force,  51-52 
Palestine  Liberation  Front,  275 
Palestine  Liberation  Organization  (PLO): 
Abu  Nidal  organization  in,  263,  275; 
base  in  Lebanon  of,  xxix,  76;  cam- 
paign in  Lebanon  against,  6;  effect  of 
intifadah   on,   xxxi-xxxii;    efforts  to 
resolve    Palestinian-Israeli  confict, 
xxxiii-xxxiv;  establishes  major  base  in 
Jordan,  63;  factions  of,  275;  harass- 
ment of  Israeli  settlements  by,  262; 
military  assistance  and  support  from 
Soviet  Union  to,  239;  political  support 
for,  227;  rejects  Reagan  Plan,  237; 
represents  Palestinian  people,  61,  67; 
strength  in  West  Bank  of,  75;  umbrella 
resistance  organization,  62;  United 
States  willingness  to  negotiate  with, 
239;  United  States  dialogue  with,  181 
Palestine  National  Council,  xxxii,  238 
Palestinian  Communist  Party,  279 
Palestinian-Israeli  conflict  {see  also  in- 
tifadah), xix,  xxix;  efforts  to  resolve, 
xxxii-xxxvi;  Palestinian  Revolt  (1936- 
39),  44-47 
Palestinian  Police,  xx 
Palestinian  Revolt  (1936-39),  33,  39, 
44-47 

Palestinians:  under  Israeli  rule,  73;  in 
military  detention  centers,  335;  nation- 
alism of,  6;  PLO  as  sole  representative 
of,  67;  political  parties  and  popular 
committees  of,  xxx-xxxi,  227;  provi- 


sions in  Camp  David  Accords  for,  237; 
refugee  camps  of,  55,  65,  303-4;  sup- 
port of  autonomy  for,  70;  uprising  (in- 
tifadah) of,  xxx-xv,  133,  200,  238,  279, 
303-6 

Palmach  (Pelugot  Mahatz:  Shock  Forces), 
47,  53,  218,  254-55 

pan-Arabism,  267 

Paris  Peace  Conference,  36 

Passfield  White  Paper  (1930),  43-44 

peacekeeping  forces,  UN,  59 

Peace  Now  movement,  xxxii,  217,  228 

Peel  Commission,  45 

penal  system  (see  also  Israel  Prison  Ser- 
vice), 334-36 

pension  system,  civil  service,  190 

Peres,  Shimon,  58,  74,  208,  216,  229, 
231,  232-33;  fired  (1990),  xxxvi;  leader 
of  Labor  Party,  180;  as  Minister  of 
Finance  (1988),  xxxv;  political  rivalry 
with  Rabin  of,  67;  support  for  Reagan 
Plan,  237 

Peretz,  Don,  57 

Peretz,  Yitzhak  (rabbi),  223 

Persian  Empire,  11 

PFLP.  See  Popular  Front  for  the  Libera- 
tion of  Palestine  (PFLP) 

Phalange  Party  (Lebanon),  76 

Phalangist  militiamen,  263,  265 

Pharisees,  13,  14 

Philistia.  See  Syria  Palestina 

Philistines,  9,  10,  15 

Phoenicia,  10 

Pinsker,  Leo,  24,  25 

Pioneer  Fighting  Youth  (Noar  Halutzi 
Lohem:  Nahal),  xix,  287,  309 

pipelines,  xviii 

Plain  of  Esdraelon,  9,  85 

Plain  of  Yizreel  (Plain  of  Jezreel  or  Plain 
of  Esdraelon),  9 

plastics  industry,  156 

PLO.  See  Palestine  Liberation  Organiza- 
tion (PLO) 

Poalei  Tziyyon  (Workers  of  Zion),  28, 
211,  227,  358 

pogroms,  xxiii,  4,  20,  21,  25,  252-53 

Poland:  crisis  in,  42;  relations  with, 
240-41 

Polgat  Enterprises,  158 

police  force.  See  Israel  Police 

political  parties,  210-27;  Arab,  212, 
226-27;  Knesset  representation  of 
Arab,  226-27;  leftist  or  socialist  labor, 


407 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


211;  Marxist,  211;  pivotal  role  of  reli- 
gious, xxxvii,  220;  religious,  98-99, 
220-24;  right-wing  ultranationalist, 
224-25;  role  of  tiny,  fringe,  xxxvii; 
youth  movements  associated  with,  134; 
Zionist,  211-12;  Zionist  orientation  of, 
213 

political  societies,  Arab,  32 

political  system  (see  also  coalitions,  politi- 
cal; National  Unity  Government):  ac- 
commodation to  different  groups  by, 
205-8;  characterization  of,  179;  crisis 
in,  228-29;  effect  of  October  1973  War 
on,  208-9;  elite  members  of,  204,  208-9; 
formation  of  National  Unity  Govern- 
ment (1984),  179-80;  multiparty  nature 
of,  xviii-xix,  xxviii,  210-28;  role  of  mili- 
tary in,  xxx,  310-14;  structure  and  re- 
form of,  xviii,  203-10 

Pollard,  Jonathan  Jay,  235,  330 

Pompey,  13 

Popular  Front  for  the  Liberation  of 
Palestine-General  Command,  275, 
278-79 

population,  xvi,  88;  Arabs  as  ratio  of,  xxvi, 
226;  concentration  of,  91;  differences 
in  Jewish,  88-89;  effect  of  immigra- 
tion on,  88-89;  growth  in  Palestine  of, 
44 

Porat,  Hanan,  222,  225 

ports  and  harbors,  xviii,  166,  167 

precipitation,  87-88 

president,  xviii;  appointment  of  judges 
by,  194-95;  duties  and  responsibilities 
of,  184-85 

press  corps:  Arab,  247;  Israeli,  244-46 

Press  Ordinance  of  1933,  247 

Prevention  of  Infiltration  Law,  332 

Prime  Minister's  Bureau,  189 

prison  system  (see  also  Israel  Prison  Ser- 
vice), 334-36 

Proclamation  of  Independence,  104 

Progressive  National  Movement  (Pro- 
gressive List  for  Peace),  227,  358-59 

Project  Renewal,  199 

protection,  trade,  169-70 

Protestants,  120 

Provisional  Council  of  State,  53 
Ptolemy  I,  11 

Public  Council  for  a  Constitution  for 

Israel,  184 
public  service  sector:  components  and 

spending  for  civilian,  150-52;  growth 


in,  147-48 


Qadis  Law  (1961),  194 
Qalandiyah  airport,  167 
Qarmatians,  16 
Qishon  stream,  85 
Quran,  194 


rabbi,  15 

rabbinical  courts.  See  religious  courts; 
Supreme  Rabbinical  Court 

Rabbinical  Courts  Jurisdiction  Law 
(1953),  194 

Rabbi  of  Gur  (court),  223 

Rabin,  Yitzhak,  xxx,  64,  180,  208,  216, 
229,  232;  aid  to  Maronites  in  Lebanon 
by  government  of,  76;  government  of, 
67;  perception  of  Egypt,  268;  proposals 
to  end  Palestinian-Israeli  conflict  of, 
xxiv 

radio,  245,  246 

Rafael.  See  Armament  Development  Au- 
thority (Rafael) 
Rafi  (Israel  Labor  List),  208,  213,  359 
railroad  system,  xviii,  166,  167 
Rakah  (New  Communist  List),  212,  227, 
359 

Ramadan  War.  See  War  of  October  1973 
Ram  Allah  human  rights  organization, 
xxxi 

Ram  Allah  prison,  335 

Ramses  II  (king  of  Egypt),  8 

Raviv,  Dan,  232 

Reagan,  Ronald,  77,  234,  237 

Reagan  Plan,  237 

Red  Sea,  58;  Israeli  fleet  in,  284 

refugee  camps  for  Palestinian  Arabs,  55, 

265,  303 
regions,  topographic,  85 
Rehoboam,  10 
Reich,  Bernard,  84 
Reichman,  Uriel,  184 
Reines,  I.  J.  (rabbi),  98-99 
religion,  xvii,  13,  15;  Islam  in  Israel,  55; 

Israeli  Judaism,  95-1 12;  Judaism,  55; 

nationalist  element  in,  61;  new  civil, 

100-101;  problem  of  reconciliation  with 

nation-state  duties,  4-5 
religious  courts,  102,  104,  105,  107 
research,  joint  military,  320 


408 


Index 


reserves  in  IDF,  xxxv,  xxxviii,  290,  299, 

300,  308 
Revisionist  Party,  218 
Revisionist  Zionism,  xxiii,  41-42,  70, 

204,  211,  359 
Richter,  Yehuda,  225 
Rishon  LeZiyyon,  24 
roads,  xviii,  166 
Rogers,  William,  63,  236 
Rogers  Plan,  63,  64,  236 
Roman  Empire,  13-15 
Romania,  240-41,  318 
Rothschild,  Edmond  de,  24,  28 
rubber  industry,  156 
Rubenstein,  Amnon,  217 
Russian  Empire,  20 

Sabra  refugee  camp,  265 
sabras,  293 

Sadat,  Anwar  as,  xxix,  6;  expels  Soviet 
advisers,  64;  role  in  strategy  for  Arab- 
Israeli  peace,  70-71,  236-37;  role  in 
October  1973  War,  66-67;  succeeds 
Nasser,  63 

Sadducees,  13 

Sager,  Samuel,  230 

Said,  Edward,  238 

Salah  ad  Din  (Saladin),  16 

Samarian  Hills,  85 

Samaritans,  120 

Samuel,  9 

Samuels,  Herbert,  37,  38,  44 
Sanhedrin  (see  also  Great  Sanhedrin), 
13-14 

San  Remo  Conference,  36 
Sapir,  Pinchas,  69,  208 
Sarid,  Yossi,  217 

satellites,  reconnaissance,  xxxiii,  323 

Saudi  Arabia,  45;  acquisition  of  SSMs  by, 
269;  defensive  posture  of,  273;  invades 
Israel  (1948),  51;  support  of  Iraq  in 
Iran-Iraq  War,  78;  United  States  mili- 
tary sales  to,  321 

Saul  (king  of  Israelites),  9 

saving,  146 

schools:  for  Arabs  (Muslim,  Christian, 
and  Druze),  121 ;  Central  School  of  Ad- 
ministration, 190;  for  conscripts,  309; 
for  Hebrew  language  (ulpan),  130;  of 
kibbutz  federations,  131;  for  military 
training,  292-93;  for  police  training, 
325-26;  religious  high  school  system, 


133;  religious  (yeshivot),  131;  state  re- 
ligious and  secular,  131-32 

Sciaki,  Avner,  222 

Scitex,  155 

Sea  Corps  (Hel  Yam),  281 

Sea  of  Galilee.  See  Lake  Tiberias 

Second  Israel  (Israel  Shniya),  114-16 

security  services,  318 

Seleucids,  11 

Selim  I  (sultan),  16 

Seljuks,  16 

Semitic  languages,  8 

Senegal,  243 

Senior  Officers'  College  (Israel  Police), 
325 

Sephardic  Jews.  &tf  Jews,  Sephardic 
Sephardic  Torah  Guardians:  Shas,  xxxvi, 

105,  220,  222,  359;  ideological  position 

of,  223-24 
service  sector,  142 

setdements  (see  also  Council  of  Setdements 
in  Judea  and  Samaria  (Yesha);  Gaza 
Strip;  West  Bank):  acceleration  follow- 
ing Camp  David  Accords  of,  72-73;  built 
between  1948-53,  57;  by  Gush  Emunim, 
225-26;  in  occupied  territories,  68,  74- 
75;  opposition  to  new  West  Bank  and 
Gaza,  xxxvii,  237;  policy  for  West  Bank 
and  Gaza,  125-27,  231;  regional  coun- 
cils of,  199;  at  Yamit  (1971),  64 

Shabak.  See  General  Security  Service 
(Sherut  Bitahon  Kelali:  Shin  Bet  or 
Shabak) 

Shabbat,  106 

Shafet,  Gershon,  224 

Shafir,  Herzl,  326 

Shakh,  Eliezer  (rabbi),  223 

Shale v,  Aryeh,  xxxiii 

Shalom,  Avraham,  330 

Shamir,  Shulamit,  241 

Shamir,  Yitzhak:  fall  of  government  of 
(1990),  xxvi;  as  leader  of  Likud  Bloc, 
219;  plan  for  occupied  territory  elec- 
tions of,  xxviii,  xxxiv;  proposed  peace 
plan  of,  xxxiv-xxxv;  rejects  conference 
with  PLO,  231;  in  Stern  Gang,  254; 
succeeds  Begin,  180 

Shammai,  14 

Sharett,  Moshe,  58,  205 

sharia  (Islamic  law)  courts,  102,  104 

Sharon,  Ariel,  xxx,  6,  65,  75,  77,  78,  220, 
229,  267-68;  aggressive  stance  of,  269; 
resigns  as  minister  of  defense,  265 


409 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Shas.  See  Sephardic  Torah  Guardians: 
Shas 

Shas  (Sephardic  Torah  Guardians),  212 
Shatila  refugee  camp,  265 
Shaw  Commission,  43 
Shefaraam,  325 

Shelli  (Peace  for  Israel  and  Equality  for 

Israel),  227,  359 
Shemen,  154 

Shia  population  (see  also  Hizballah  (Party 

of  God)  movement);  guerrilla  activity 

of,  265-66,  278 
Shimron  Commission,  326 
Shin  Bet.  See  General  Security  Service 

(Sherut  Bitahon  Kelali:  Shin  Bet  or 

Shabak) 

Shinui  (Change),  212,  217,  359 
shipping  fleet,  167 

Shomrim  (Guardsmen)  units  (see  also 

HaShomer  (Watchmen)),  253 
Shomron,  Dan,  xxxiii,  280,  314 
Shultz,  George  P.,  238-39 
Sick  Funds.  See  Kupat  Holim  (Sick  Fund) 
Sidon,  264 
Sierra  Leone,  243 
Simon  Maccabaeus,  13 
Simpson,  John  Hope,  43 
Sinai,  8-9 

Sinai  Campaign.  See  War  of  1956  (Sinai 

Campaign) 
Sinai  Desert,  87 

Sinai  Disengagement  Agreements.  See 
Israeli-Egyptian  Disengagement  Agree- 
ment (First),  (Second) 

Sinai  Peninsula:  Israeli  attack  (October 
1956),  256;  Israeli  invasion  (1967),  259; 
occupation  and  annexation  of  (1967), 
5;  oil  supply  in,  159;  returned  to  Egypt 
(1982),  xxix,  73,  78,  300;  as  site  for 
Jewish  state,  27 

Singapore,  244 

Sisco,  Joseph  P.,  236 

Six-Day  War.  See  War  of  June  1967 

social  structure:  class  structure  in,  116- 
20;  forces  influencing,  93,  95;  influence 
of  military  on,  312;  problems  of,  xxv- 
xxvi,  83-84  social  welfare  programs, 
136-37,  144;  funding  and  spending  for, 
151-52 

Social  Welfare  Service  Law  (1958),  136- 
37 

solar  energy,  159 
Soleh  Boneh,  41 


Solomon,  5,  10,  252 
Soltam,  316 

Sons  of  the  Village  Party,  227 
South  Africa,  159,  243-44;  arms  sales  to, 
318-19 

South  Lebanon  Army  (SLA),  265,  266, 
278 

South  Yemen.  See  Yemen,  People's  Demo- 
cratic Republic  of  (South  Yemen) 

Soviet  Jewry  Education  and  Information 
Center,  240 

Soviet  Union:  military  assistance  in  Oc- 
tober 1973  War,  64;  military  assistance 
to  Egypt,  Syria,  and  Iraq  by,  63,  321; 
relations  with,  xxviii-xxix,  239-40;  role 
in  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  60 

Spain,  242 

spending,  defense,  xx,  xxxviii,  68,  143- 
44,  152-53,  322;  impact  on  economy 
of,  251,  306-8 

Sri  Lanka,  244 

SSMs.  See  surface-to-surface  missiles 
(SSMs) 

State  Archives  and  Library,  189 
State  Comptroller  Law  (1958),  183 
State  Education  Law  (1953),  131,  183 
State  Employment  Service,  189 
state-owned  enterprises,  142-43 
Stern,  Avraham,  254 
Stern  Gang(Lohamei  Herut  Israel:  Lehi), 

43,  48,  218,  254,  255 
stock  market  (see  also  Tel  Aviv  Stock  Ex- 
change (TASE)),  164 
Strait  of  Tiran:  closed  by  Egypt,  256; 
closed  to  Israeli  shipping,  58;  UN  clos- 
ing of,  60 
Struma  affair,  48 
Sudan,  278 

Suez  Canal,  236;  British  and  French  sei- 
zure of,  59,  62;  closed  to  Israeli  ship- 
ping, 58;  Egypt's  actions  along,  321; 
nationalization  of,  256;  strategic  sig- 
nificance of,  32,  34,  35;  war  in  vicin- 
ity of  (1956),  xxv 

Supreme  Court,  195-96,  331,  333,  334, 
335 

Supreme  Muslim  Council  (SMC),  38 
Supreme  Rabbinical  Court,  102 
surface-to-surface  missiles  (SSMs),  269, 
274 

Swaziland,  242 

Sykes-Picot  Agreement  (1916),  33-34; 
declared  void  by  Arabs,  36 


410 


Index 


synagogue,  15 

Syria  (see  also  Greater  Syria),  15,  34,  35; 
aircraft  destruction  (1967  and  1982),  259, 
264;  Al  Fatah  guerrillas  in,  278;  armistice 
agreement  with  (1949),  255;  armistice 
with  Israel  (1948),  52;  border  with,  85; 
British  withdrawal  from,  37;  build-up  of 
military  force,  273-74;  Fay  sal  elected 
king  of,  37;  French  mandate  over,  36; 
invades  Israel  (1948),  51,  255;  Israeli 
forces  in  (1973),  65;  Israeli  invasion 
(1967),  259;  military  alliance  with  Iraq, 
Egypt,  and  Jordan  (1967),  259;  military 
threat  of,  xxxvi,  272-73;  in  October  1973 
War,  65;  relations  of  Israel  with,  xxix; 
relations  of  Soviet  Union  with,  239;  role 
in  Lebanon  of,  76;  Soviet  military  as- 
sistance for,  258;  sponsors  anti-Arafat  ter- 
rorism, 278;  support  for  Iran  in  Iran-Iraq 
War,  78;  use  of  surface-to-surface  mis- 
siles (SSMs)  by,  269;  water  diversion 
from  Jordan  River  by,  60,  258 

Syrian-Israeli  Disengagement  Agree- 
ments. See  Israeli-Syrian  Disengage- 
ment Agreements 

Syria  Palestina,  13,  14,  15 

Syrkin,  Nachman,  28 


Taba,  231 

Tadiran  Electronic  Industries,  143,  316 

Taiwan  (ROC),  244 

Talmud,  14,  101 

Talmud,  Babylonian,  15 

Talmud,  Palestinian,  15 

TAMA  (purchasing  tax),  170 

Tami  (Traditional  Movement  of  Israel), 
213,  222,  359 

tax  system:  after  1985  reform,  150; 
revenues  of,  145,  153-54 

Technion  (Israel  Institute  of  Technology), 
40,  133-34 

Technological  and  Scientific  Information 
Center,  189 

technology  transfer  agreement,  235 

Tehiya  (Renaissance),  222,  224,  359 

Tel  Aviv,  14,  24;  as  capital,  xv;  develop- 
ment of,  42;  fund  raising  program  of, 
199 

Tel  Aviv  Stock  Exchange  (TASE),  164, 
166 

Tel  Aviv  University,  xxxiii,  133-34 
telecommunications,  xviii,  169 


Telem,  208-9 
television,  245,  246 

Temple  in  Jerusalem  (see  also  Wailing 

Wall),  10,  11,  13,  14-15 
Tenuvah,  41 

Terror  Against  Terror  (TNT),  280 

terrorism  (see  also  Abu  Musa  faction),  50, 
101,  225;  by  Arabs,  278;  attacks  on 
Israeli  border  defenses,  278;  Border 
Police  preparation  for,  324;  of  Jews 
against  Arabs,  42-43,  279-80;  by  Libya, 
278;  by  Palestinians,  67;  sea  infiltration 
by  PLO,  284 

textile  industry,  157-58 

Thailand,  244 

Tirosh  program  (see  also  Israel  Police), 

326-27 
Titus,  14 
Togo,  243 

topography,  xvi,  85-87 

Torah,  6-7,  9;  as  basis  for  legal  code,  194; 
compilation  of,  11;  study  and  obser- 
vance of,  15 

Torah  Religious  Front,  221,  222,  359-60 

tourism,  158-59 

Trackers  Unit,  294 

trade,  international:  barriers  to,  169-70; 

GSP  and  MFN  status  in,  172;  with 

Hungary,  240;  with  West  European 

countries,  241 
trade  unions  (see  also  Histadrut),  xxvi, 

142,  190 

Transjordan,  45,  52;  armistice  agreement 
with  (1949),  255;  armistice  with  Israel 
(1948),  52;  invades  Israel  (1948),  51; 
separate  British  mandate  for,  36 

transportation  system,  166-69;  public, 
166 

treaties  (see  also  Camp  David  Accords),  6, 
72 

Treaty  Banning  Nuclear  Weapons  Tests 

in  the  Atmosphere,  in  Outer  Space,  and 

Under  Water  (1963),  317 
Treaty  of  Peace  between  Egypt  and  Israel 

(1979),  xix,  xxix,  6,  72,  224,  231,  237, 

268,  300,  321 
Treaty   on   the    Non-Proliferation  of 

Nuclear  Weapons  (1968),  317 
truce.  See  cease-fire 
Truman,  Harry  S,  49,  51 
Tsomet  (Crossroads),  224 
Tunisia:  Al  Fatah  terrorists  in,  278; 

bombing  of  PLO  headquarters  in,  287 


411 


Israel:  A  Country  Study 


Turkey,  242;  armistice  with,  37;  arms 
sales  to,  318;  defeat  of,  35;  nationalism 
of,  30,  32 

Tyre,  10,  264,  266 

Tzaban,  Yair.  216 


Uganda  Plan,  27,  28 

ulpan  (Hebrew  language  school),  130 

Umar  (caliph),  16 

Umar  II  (caliph),  16 

Umayyads,  16 

underground  economy,  68-69 

underwater  commandos,  284-85 

UNEF.  See  United  Nations  Emergency 
Force  (UNEF) 

Unified  National  Command  of  the  Up- 
rising, xxx,  279 

United  Arab  Republic  (UAR),  60 

United  Jewish  Appeal  (UJA),  202 

United  Mizrahi  Bank,  163 

United  Nations  Disengagement  Observer 
Force  (UNDOF),  67 

United  Nations  Emergency  Force 
(UNEF),  60.  68 

United  Nations  Interim  Force  in  Leba- 
non (UNIFIL),  76,  77 

United  Nations  Partition  of  Palestine 
Resolution  (1947).  239 

United  Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agen- 
cy (UNRWA)  for  Palestine  Refugees, 
xxxi,  73 

United  Nations  Special  Committee  on 
Palestine  (UNSCOP),  50 

United  Nations  Truce  Supervision  Orga- 
nization-Palestine (UNTSOP),  52 

United  Nations  (UN):  admits  Israel  to 
membership  (1949),  51:  buffer  zone. 
67;  cease-Fire  for  June  1967  War,  259; 
cease-fire  for  October  1973  War,  261; 
General  Assembly,  50;  General  Assem- 
bly Resolution  (1947),  xxiv,  50;  peace- 
keeping forces  of  (1957),  59;  Security 
Council  Resolution  242  (1967).  61.  63. 
65,  68,  236.  239;  Security  Council 
Resolution  338  (1973),  65, '236,  239; 
Security  Council  Truce  Commission, 
52 

United  Religious  Front,  220-21.  360 
United  States:  arms  sales  to,  320,  322;  at- 
tempts to  resolve  PLO-Israel  conflict, 
xxviii;    cease-fire    imposition  under 
auspices  of,  264;  Department  of  State 


Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights 
Practices,  xxxi;  dependence  of  Yishuv 
(Palestine)  on,  48;  initiatives  in  Arab- 
Israeli  conflict,  180-81;  military  and 
economic  assistance  from,  66;  military 
cooperation  with,  320-23;  position  on 
Arab-Israeli  conflict.  320;  relations 
with,  234-39;  sales  of  military  equip- 
ment by,  320-23;  as  trading  partner. 
170,  172 

United  States-Israel  Free  Trade  Area 
(FTA)  Agreement  (1987),  158,  172. 
234-35 

Universal  House  of  Justice  (Bahai),  120 
universities,  133-34 
U  Thant.  60 

valleys.  85 

Yanunu.  Mordechai,  270.  318.  328 
Yespasian,  14 
vigilantism,  280 
Yillage  League  plan,  75 
Yilner.  Meir.  227 

violence:  in  occupied  territories,  6;  related 

to  UN  resolution  for  partition.  51 
Voice  of  America,  235 
Yoice  of  the  IDF  (Galei  Zahal),  246 


Wailing  Wall.  14.  42 
Waldman.  Eliezer  (rabbi),  224 
war:  potential  triggers  for.  269-70 
War  of  Attrition  (1969-70),  62-64,  260; 

United  States  assistance  in  settlement 

of,  236 

War  of  Independence,  51-52,  255,  314 

War  of  June  1967.  xxv.  60.  73.  259-60; 
impact  of.  5:  impact  on  Labor  Partv  of. 
216;  importance  of.  5:  occupied  and  an- 
nexed territories  after,  85;  territories  oc- 
cupied during.  300;  United  States 
mediation  m.  236 

War  of  1956  (Sinai  Campaign),  54,  60, 
256.  258-59 

War  of  October  1973.  xxv.  64-68.  260- 
62;  assistance  from  United  States  for, 
234:  failures  of.  299;  impact  of.  5,  262: 
influence  on  politics  and  society  of.  208. 
216;  postwar  settlement  period  of. 
66-67:  United  States  military  equip- 
ment in.  320 

wars,  xxv,  5.  6.  13 


412 


Index 


Watchmen.  See  HaShomer  (The  Watch- 
men) 

Weiss,  Daniella,  226 
Weizman,  Ezer,  xxx,  xxxiii,  75,  208,  216, 
229 

Weizmann,  Chaim,  xxiv,  27,  32,  34,  35, 
48,  51,  53,  211 

Weizmann  Institute  of  Technology, 
133-34,  155 

West  Bank  {see  also  intifadah):  Arabs  in,  93; 
Cairo-Amman  Bank  in,  232;  civilian 
administration  in,  199-200,  301,  303; 
criminal  justice  in,  333-34;  election 
plan  for,  xxviii,  xxxiv;  election  results 
(1976),  74;  guerrilla  groups  in 
(1967-70),  260;  Israeli  reprisal  raids  in, 
256;  Jordan  disclaims  involvement  in, 
xxix;  local  government  in,  303;  under 
military  jurisdiction  of  Israel,  xxx, 
300-301,  303;  occupation  and  annex- 
ation of  (1967),  xvi,  5-6,  52,  85,  300; 
Palestinian  Arabs  in,  55,  73;  prisons  in, 
335;  restrictions  and  punishments  for 
people  in,  xxxi;  settlements  and  new 
settlements  in,  xxxvii,  68 

Western  Europe.  See  Europe,  Western 

White  Paper  (1939),  47,  50 

Wingate,  Orde  Charles,  253-54 

Wolffsohn,  Michael,  241 

women  in  police  force,  325 

Women's  Army  Corps  (Chen),  289 

Woodhead  Commission:  reversal  of  Peel 
Commission  recommendation,  45 

Workers  of  Zion.  See  Poalei  Tziyyon 
(Workers  of  Zion) 

World  Peace  Council,  240 

World  Zionist  Organization  (WZO)  {see 
also  Jewish  National  Fund),  26,  27,  36, 
40,  137,  211;  as  national  institution, 
200-202 


Yadin,  Yigal,  208,  229 
Yahad  (Together),  208,  360 
Yahweh  (God),  6,  9 
Yariv,  Aharon,  229 
Yarqon  stream,  85 

Yemen:  invades  Israel  (1948),  51;  war 

with  Egypt,  60 
Yemen,  People's  Democratic  Republic  of 

(South  Yemen):  Al  Fatah  guerrillas  in, 

278 


Yemen  Arab  Republic  (North  Yemen): 

Al  Fatah  guerrillas  in,  278 
Yesha.  ^Council  of  Settlements  injudea 

and  Samaria  (Yesha) 
yeshiva  (pi.,  yeshivot),  131,  288 
Yibna  Qabneh),  14 
Yiddish,  21 

Yishuv  (Palestine),  4,  5,  29,  40-41,  83 

Yizreel  (Jezreel)  Valley,  85 

Yom  Kippur  War  (1973).  See  War  of  Oc- 
tober 1973 

Yoseph,  Ovadia  (rabbi),  104-5,  223 

Young  Worker.  See  HaPoel  HaTzair  (The 
Young  Worker) 

Youth  Corps  (Gdudei  Noar:  Gadna),  xix, 
287-88,  309 

Youth  Faction  (National  Religious  Party), 
221-22,  225 

youth  movements,  134 

Zahal.  See  Israel  Defense  Forces:  IDF 
(Zvah  Haganah  Le  Yisrael:  Zahal) 

Zahlah,  76-77,  263 

Zaire,  243,  320 

Zealots,  14 

Zikhron  Yaaqov,  24 

Zim  (shipping  company),  167 

Zionism  {see  also  Zionist  Congress;  Jew- 
ish National  Fund  (Keren  Kayemet); 
Labor  Zionism;  Revisionist  Zionism; 
World  Zionist  Organization  (WZO)): 
cultural  form  of,  xxiii,  4,  26-27,  28;  de- 
velopment of  movement,  3-4,  20-22; 
effect  of  Holocaust  on,  5,  48-49;  as  na- 
tionalist movement,  83;  political  form 
of,  xxiii,  4,  20,  24-26,  28;  precursors 
to,  22,  24;  reformulation  of  Judaism  by, 
22 

Zionist  Congress:  First,  26;  Sixth,  27; 
Twentieth  (1937)  agrees  to  partition, 
45 

Zionist  movement,  38-39;  Betar  faction 
of,  42-43;  impact  of  Balfour  Declara- 
tion on,  35 

Zionists:  as  potential  ally  of  Britain,  34; 
Orthodox,  96,  212 

Zipori,  Mordecai,  229 

Zisar,  Baruch,  228 

Zobah  (Aram-Zobah),  10 

Zucker,  Dudy,  217 

Zucker,  Norman,  220 


413 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

OOU-lOJ 

Lrhana 

550-98 

Albania 

550-87 

Greece 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-59 

Angola 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-82 

Guyana 

Doo-ioy 

Australia 

oou-ioi 

Honduras 

550-176 

Austria 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-21 

India 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-o8 

T  

Iran 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-61 

Burma 

550-25 

Israel 

550-37 

Burundi/Rwanda 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

jou— i oy 

i^nau 

Dj\J— 00 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic/Haiti 

550-76 

Mongolia 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-167 

Finland 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-46 

Panama 

415 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-1 R5 

X  CI  Md.ll    V^JUII  OLdLCo 

Turkey 

550-42 

Peru 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-72 

P  n  1 1 1  r*  r*  l  n  ^  q 

X  lllllUUlllLo 

550-97 

I     r~i  1  rn  iqu 
\J  1  lig  Lldy 

550-162 

Poland 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-160 

Romania 

550-1 83 

X  CIUCHo,     x  lie 

550-51 

u a u u i  ni  aula. 

550-99 

Y  1 1  (TO  Q 1  7K\J\7K 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-67 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

R^O-184 

Sin  orannrp 

550-171 

550-86 

Si  o  m  ^  1 1 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Sovi<*t  TTmnn 

550-179 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

550-53 

Thailand 

416 


PIN:  004192-000 


