JK  468 
.P76M36 


1990 


'  *>>;  •  cp?a^  •  •  •  v^x*  •  •  ;>k^;°  • 1  v 


>  V^V  ^  ^ 

■*  *  *  <£►  -  ’  •  - 

°o 

'.  «b^  . 

*  ,0*/>  <*  -r  “  -in 

r  o  \  'A-^.*  ^  “V  * 

4?  V'»«»’  /  .  q,*» 

‘  ‘in  r  /iSkfe  *«, 


’b-f  w  ° 

-  *%.  ”11|K?  ^  ’. 

•$*  O  A*)  J*9  V  O  ^ 

•»  •>“. «  ^Vono’  ^  *  *.\*"  % 

/  ^v\  \fp.-  /\  %^p*  *: 

/°  •  ‘V  c»-= ..% 4  •  •  >4 *  ■■  ■  •/vaV>‘i/  ^  ^  ” 54  ^  r  -  ^ 

W.  O  *  *  O  4 * 

£  *  ^Ni\\vr:iv  <r  ..  -?v  f> 


t>  .4*  £  +  -<r  H 

>>  * 

A*,  ./»  ^“'JkC^t5  >*  ^ 

*  -  foS*oHo9  &'  *  °*  V*91 

A***,  - 


*  O  ^  -  N.  . 

.1  «  o,°'l^,i’*n  *  Jp 

%%  4  ' 

IS 

o 


0  ..  ^  ., .,  c.  w.y;^;. ■ 

°jf  Ml ;  V° :9$:  V  fill i  V° Sttf:  °&?  M 

>  ^  *  w;ao  o  rs  A.  - 

c«0j.  V^V°KO°  ^  ^  *0  "3NO’  ° 

vW^\  A^;.'. %  ”  ,vV< 

-  v^y 


o.  ‘ 


«r  t, 


O’n  C,' 

'VnCT1 


!>“°’  >%,  .  .,\'*n  ■'/,  .  .  r  V^0’  S>^’  *  o.°^  •’■'■■  *y*°  .  *  -  ^  'ONO’ 

■o.  <4  4:-  ^  ^  ,  v  y 

Cv  ^  rA^fir  An  o  <V>  /C*>  ^  tf'$hf{x  <=>  .vK  .-t> 

S  * 

4 


, '  *  >V:_:,'yyy 0  * 1  //«.,V  •  •  '>\«  »•♦:%■ 

v*  iff&\ 


Kt.  41 

y><<^  ^ 


«  x' 


<0^ 

*y  v  (/  v  w»  ^>  m\\w 

>  O  ^*1  J»  ^NKV^ 


v  O’  ^ 

❖  o  ^ 

0  >f  ^ /-  ?  1  1  0  ^  >  ’/, 

o  Ca  cs  ,-^nv^  ^  ^ 

o  * 


o 


Av;x,  o 
>  ‘V  ^  0 


4-" 


71  w  v*o^  ^ov^  *|f^;  v*c? 


<5  ^  ♦ 

.>/»-»’: ■  s<, .  .,v*.n  .4°; . .  Vo“°’V4’  *  °»\v” 
/  4?\  WJ  J"* 


>n  rO 

°<b  9  i  T  *  A  «  *  -  ..  ^ 

*#fll4  fWifn”  W  *>o*  ?^||i*  ■’o-y  .p^; 

o4  o^ rO  ^j>  <jy  o_  <o  4i>  o 


'ONO1  \<vr^'< 


*P  N'^-»  ^ 

4.  VfAiV 

aX  *  MrM  *  0,W|  ^  *  |fcf  "  <V*<4 

o.v  n>v  ^  ^4/4^  -v  <v  41  °  a/^vVF  *  jV  %  Vf^i^  4  4y  V' 

:«•?•«.>%  *  ’  ’  ’■ ‘>4*;*' .; V;  '»-y ' 

4  o  ^  *  Mmz>  *  %  o  •  —  -  -  ‘  *v-^- 

»  4v  *  t 


\o  ^ 


3v*  °  n  °° "  <?\t  -  0^5  ^ 

»  a^>jJ'a  o  Wl)Js&  4  4^ 

.■^  Ay  ^h.  ^  ^  ^ 


A  7 


THE  MANAGEMENT  C  IpSTofcoSc^^ 
ELECTRONIC  RECORDS? am 
IN  THE  1990’S  \  ^ 


A  Report  of  a  Conference 
Held  June  21-23,  1989,  Easton,  MD 


NATIONAL  ARCHIVES  AND  RECORDS  ADMINISTRATION 
OFFICE  OF  RECORDS  ADMINISTRATION 
WASHINGTON,  DC 
AUGUST  1990 


THE  MANAGEMENT  OF 
ELECTRONIC  RECORDS 
IN  THE  1990’S 


A  Report  of  a  Conference 
Held  June  21-23,  1989,  Easton,  MD 


NATIONAL  ARCHIVES  AND  RECORDS  ADMINISTRATION 
OFFICE  OF  RECORDS  ADMINISTRATION 
WASHINGTON,  DC 
AUGUST  1990 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1 990'$ 


Table  of  Contents 


Executive  Summary . 1 

Summary  of  Recommendations . 2 

Conference  Report . 5 

The  Planning  Process . 5 

General  Sessions . 7 

Welcome . 7 

The  Technological  Future  . 8 

The  Managerial  Future  . 9 

The  Working  Groups  . 11 

Working  Group  1:  Organizational  and  Individual  Responsibilities . 12 

Working  Group  2:  Corporate  Information  Management . 14 

Working  Group  3:  Managing  Electronic  Records  in  the 

Office  Environment . 16 

Working  Group  4:  Legal  and  Security  Issues  . 18 

Working  Group  5:  Records  Management  and  the  Design 

and  Implementation  of  Electronic  Information  Systems  . 19 

Working  Group  6:  Information  Collection  and  Dissemination . 21 

Recommendations  to  the  President’s  Council  on  Management 
Improvement . 23 

Summary  of  Progress  and  Planned  Actions . 29 

Actions  Begun  . 29 

Planned  Actions  . 30 

Appendix:  Conference  Participants . 33 


iii 


Table  of  Contents 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990'$ 


Executive  Summary 


In  June  1989  a  3-day  conference,  convened  by  the  National  Archives,  con¬ 
sidered  the  challenges  posed  by  the  increasing  use  of  electronic  media  to 
store  Federal  records.  Representatives  from  all  three  branches  of  govern¬ 
ment  and  the  private  sector  met  to  develop  a  series  of  recommendations  for 
the  management  of  electronic  records  in  the  Federal  Government.  After  in¬ 
troductory  sessions  the  conference  broke  into  six  working  groups: 

•  Organizational  and  Individual  Responsibilities 

•  Corporate  Information  Management  -  Mission  Information  Systems 

•  Managing  Electronic  records  in  the  Office  Environment 

•  Legal  and  Security  Issues 

•  Records  Management  and  the  Design  and  Implementation  of  Electronic 
Information  Systems 

•  Collection  and  Dissemination  of  Information 

At  the  conclusion  of  the  conference,  the  recommendations  of  the  working 
groups  were  presented.  There  were  several  dominant  themes  among  these 
recommendations  including  the  need  to  for  records  managers  to  participate 
in  the  life  cycle  of  automated  information  systems  and  the  necessity  of  im¬ 
proving  communications  and  interaction  among  the  various  disciplines  in¬ 
volved  in  electronic  records  management. 


Executive  Summary 


1 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990'$ 


Summary  of 
Recommendations 


The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  recommendations  of  the  conference.  This 
summary  takes  the  recommendations  of  individual  groups,  combines  those 
that  are  related,  and  groups  them  by  category 

Recommendations  relating  specifically  to  the  management  of 
electronic  records. 

1.  Integrate  records  management  considerations  and  procedures 

throughout  the  information  system  life  cycle. 

a.  Incorporate  records  management  considerations  into  the 
“Model  Framework  for  Management  Control  Over 
Automated  Information  Systems”  prepared  jointly  by  the 
President’s  Council  on  Management  Improvement  and  the 
President’s  Council  on  Integrity  and  Efficiency. 

b.  Keep  the  expanded  model  current  and  promote  its  use. 

c.  Ensure  that  electronic  information  systems  are  created  in  such 
a  way  as  to  make  it  possible  to  meet  requirements  for  crea¬ 
tion,  maintenance,  and  disposition  of  electronic  records. 

d.  Include  considerations  about  collection  and  dissemination  of  in¬ 
formation  in  systems  design. 

e.  Promote  the  incorporation  of  records  management  considera¬ 
tions  into  the  information  system  life  cycle. 

f.  Develop  opportunities  for  cross-training  for  data  processing  and 
records  management  staff  and  awareness  training  for  all 
others  involved  in  the  management  of  electronic  records. 

2.  Use  the  technology  itself  to  improve  the  management  of  electronic 

records. 

a.  Develop  and  implement  model  systems  that  “embed”  records 
management  activities  (indexing,  storing,  disposition,  and 
determining  FOIA  and  Privacy  Act  status)  in  processes 
through  which  individual  documents  are  created,  main¬ 
tained,  and  used. 


2 


Summary  of  Recommendations 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


b.  Fund  the  development  of  model  expert  system  (artificial  intel¬ 
ligence)  to  assist  in  determining  whether  a  document  is  a 
record,  how  it  should  be  filed,  disposed  of,  released  under 
the  FOIA,  etc. 

3.  Clarify  legal  issues  that  affect  the  management  and  use  of  electronic 
records. 

a.  Complete  development  of  guidelines  on  the  use  of  electronic  in¬ 
formation  as  evidence. 

b.  Develop  guidelines  on  the  confidentiality,  integrity,  and  legality 
of  electronic  records. 

4.  Increase  funding:  With  the  support  of  other  agencies,  NARA  should  re¬ 
quest  funding  to  convert  permanent  records  to  archivally  acceptable 
media  after  transfer  to  the  National  Archives. 

5.  Information  dissemination:  Agencies  should  submit  inventories  of 
electronic  records  and  information  products  to  GPO,  NARA,  and  NTIS. 

Recommendations  relating  to  records  management  and  information 
resources  management  (IRM)  in  general. 

1.  Include  in  the  Paperwork  Reduction  Act  additional  information  relating 
to  agency  responsibilities  for  the  creation,  maintenance,  and  ap¬ 
propriate  disposition  of  adequate  and  proper  documentation  of  the  ac¬ 
tivities  of  the  Federal  Government. 

2.  Focus  on  IRM  as  a  management  process  to  support  the  accomplishment 
of  agency  objectives. 

3.  Direct  agencies  to  include  records  management  in  their  IRM  reviews. 

4.  Educate  inspectors  general  and  other  auditors  on  documentation  require¬ 
ments  and  records  management  laws  and  regulations  so  that  those  re¬ 
quirements  will  be  addressed  whenever  agency  programs  are  reviewed. 

5.  Develop  a  program  to  make  all  employees  aware  of  their  responsibility  to 
create  and  maintain  adequate  and  proper  documentation  of  the 
policies  and  activities  of  the  Federal  Government. 

6.  Review,  consolidate  where  appropriate,  and  simplify  all  regulations  and 
guidance  relating  to  records  and  information  management. 

7.  Expand  on  records  management  policy  and  program  requirements  in 
OMB  Circular  A-130. 


Summary  of  Recommendations 


3 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


Recommendations  relating  to  the  overall  management  environment  in 
the  Federal  Government. 

1.  Determine  and  articulate  an  appropriate  balance  between  productivity 
and  efficiency  and  quality  and  service  in  the  definition  of  program  ob¬ 
jectives,  determination  of  approaches,  and  evaluation  of  performance. 

2.  Work  with  the  President’s  Council  on  Management  Improvement  to  in¬ 
fluence  appropriate  Administration  officials  and  members  of  the  Legis¬ 
lative  Branch  to  strengthen  management’s  commitment  to  quality. 

3.  Ensure  that  an  integrated  approach  to  information  management  is  in¬ 
cluded  in  all  program  planning  processes. 

4.  Advocate  quality  in  program  delivery  and  records  management  by: 

a.  addressing  interagency  management  groups, 

b.  issuing  appropriate  regulations, 

c.  participating  in  management  conferences,  and 

d.  writing  for  appropriate  publications. 

5.  Improve  internal  (agency)  incentives  for  compliance  with  established  in¬ 
formation  resources  management  policies  and  procedures  by: 

a.  gaining  management  support 

b.  demonstrating  direct,  program-related  benefits, 

c.  rewarding  co-operation  and  success,  and 

d.  penalizing  noncompliance. 

6.  Identify  methods  of  integrating  the  current  budget  process,  program 
planning  techniques,  and  IRM  management  procedures  to  fully  sup¬ 
port  the  accomplishment  of  Administration  and  agency  objectives. 


4 


Summary  of  Recommendations 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


Conference  Report 


In  June  1989  the  Office  of  Records  Administration  of  the  National  Archives 
and  Records  Administration  (NARA)  organized  a  conference  entitled 
“Electronic  Records:  A  Strategic  Plan  for  the  1990’s,”  (to  be  called  in  this 
report  “the  conference”).  The  conference  was  held  at  the  Tidewater  Inn,  in 
Easton,  MD,  June  21-23,  1989.  This  report  summarizes  the  background  of 
the  conference,  the  issues  discussed,  and  resulting  recommendations. 

Electronic  records  can  be  considered  one  of  the  foremost  challenges  facing 
the  information  management  community  today.  There  are  many  reasons  for 
this: 


•  Electronic  records  are  often  not  thought  of  as  records  and  are  not 
subjected  to  the  same  controls  that  are  used  to  manage  other  records. 
Program  managers  and  ADP  managers  are  frequently  not  concerned 
about  the  record  status  of  electronic  information  until  their  disks  fill  up 
and  they  want  to  start  deleting  information. 

•  The  amount  of  information  maintained  in  electronic  form  is  large  and 
growing. 

•  Preserving  electronic  records  is  a  challenge,  because  they  can  be  easily 
changed,  because  the  media  on  which  they  are  stored  is  fragile  and 
records  can  be  lost  through  poor  maintenance,  and  because  they  are 
often  technology-dependent. 

•  Persons  from  many  different  disciplines  need  to  be  involved  with  the 
management  of  electronic  records. 

•  Frequently  electronic  records  are  not  centrally  located,  but  are 
dispersed  throughout  an  organization. 

With  these  considerations  in  mind,  the  Office  of  Records  Administration  con¬ 
cluded  that  it  would  be  productive  to  bring  together  experts  from  a  wide 
variety  of  backgrounds  to  address  the  major  issues  in  electronic  records 
management  and  to  develop  recommendations  for  future  action. 


The  Planning  Process 

After  that  decision  was  reached,  it  was  necessary  to  determine  the  most  ad¬ 
vantageous  timing  for  such  a  meeting.  Three  accomplishments  were  neces¬ 
sary  before  scheduling  the  conference: 


Conference  Report 


5 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


1.  The  preparation  of  revised  regulations  on  electronic  records,  to  be  issued 
jointly  by  the  National  Archives  and  the  General  Services  Administra¬ 
tion  and  published  in  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations.  These  were  is¬ 
sued  as  a  proposed  rule  in  the  Federal  Register  on  December  5,  1988. 

2.  The  publication  by  the  National  Archives  of  revisions  of  the  General 
Records  Schedules  relating  to  electronic  records. 

General  Records  Schedule  20,  Electronic  Records,  applies  to  records  in 
central  data  processing  facilities.  General  Records  Schedule  23, 

Records  Common  to  Most  Offices  Within  Agencies,  has  items  that 
apply  to  records  created  in  electronic  form  in  office  automation  applica¬ 
tions.  The  General  Records  Schedules  contain  disposition  instructions 
for  records  that  are  common  to  all  or  many  agencies  of  the  Federal 
Government.  These  were  published  in  June  1988. 

3.  The  completion  of  a  report  on  electronic  recordkeeping  by  the  National 
Academy  of  Public  Administration  (NAPA).  The  report,  entitled  “The 
Effects  of  Electronic  Recordkeeping  on  the  Historical  Record  of  the 
U.S.  Government,”  was  issued  in  January  1989. 

With  these  elements  in  place,  further  planning  for  the  conference  began.  A 
planning  committee  was  assembled  to  work  with  representatives  from  the 
Office  of  Records  Administration.  This  planning  committee  included  senior 
policy  makers  representing  the  full  range  of  disciplines  involved  in  the 
management  of  electronic  records.  The  members  of  the  committee  were: 

Ronald  E.  Brewer,  Tennessee  Valley  Authority 

John  W.  Coyle,  Department  of  the  Interior 

Glenn  P.  Haney,  Department  of  Agriculture 

Francis  A.  McDonough,  General  Services  Administration 

Judith  J.  Newton,  National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Tbchnology 

Howard  H.  Raiken,  Department  of  Energy 

Timothy  Sprehe,  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 

Kenneth  F.  Thibodeau,  Director  of  NARA’s  Center  for  Electronic  Records 

The  committee  recommended  that  the  conference’s  program  consist  of 
general  sessions  and  working  groups.  The  general  sessions  would  survey 
past  and  current  developments  in  the  field  and  assess  the  technological  and 
managerial  future.  The  working  groups  would  each  have  an  assigned  topic. 
The  committee  also  recommended  speakers  for  the  general  sessions  and 
leaders  for  the  working  groups. 

Another  function  of  the  planning  committee  was  to  select  participants  for 
the  conference.  The  committee  members  suggested  individuals  who  repre¬ 
sented  a  wide  variety  of  backgrounds  and  areas  of  expertise,  as  well  as 
many  Federal  agencies,  the  judiciary,  the  Congress,  interested  professional 
associations,  and  the  private  sector.  Those  invited  were  to  be  senior  execu- 


6 


Conference  Report 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  199Q,s 


tives  in  positions  to  effect  change  in  the  manner  electronic  records  were 
managed  within  their  organizations. 

The  National  Archives  proceeded  to  invite  the  persons  named  by  the  plan¬ 
ning  committee.  Sixty-three  persons  accepted  the  invitation  and  attended 
the  conference.  They  included  records  managers,  information  resources 
managers,  ADP  managers,  data  administrators,  attorneys,  librarians,  and 
archivists.  A  list  of  attendees  is  included  as  an  appendix. 


General  Sessions 

The  speakers  at  the  general  sessions  included:  Don  W.  Wilson,  the  Archivist 
of  the  United  States,  who  gave  the  welcome;  Webb  Castor,  recently  retired 
Senior  Vice  President  of  the  Xerox  Corporation,  who  gave  his  views  on  the 
technological  future;  and  John  J.  Franke,  Jr.,  formerly  Assistant  Secretary 
for  Administration  in  the  Department  of  Agriculture,  who  discussed  the 
managerial  future. 


Welcome  Don  W.  Wilson 

In  his  welcome  Wilson  discussed  the  National  Archives  and  Records  Ad¬ 
ministration  and  its  concerns  with  records.  Records  are  important  to  both  in¬ 
dividuals  and  institutions.  The  National  Archives  is  not  just  a  building,  it  is 
a  body  of  records — the  records  of  the  most  important  institution  in  our 
society.  These  records  provide  evidence  of  the  operations  of  the  Government 
and  are  one  of  the  basic  means  for  ensuring  responsible  and  responsive 
Government.  In  addition,  the  National  Archives  provides  research  and  refer¬ 
ence  sources  on  many  aspects  of  society  for  scholars,  journalists,  and  others. 

Another  important  responsibility  of  the  National  Archives  is  working  with 
agencies’  records  administration  programs — establishing  controls  over  the 
entire  life  cycle  of  records.  The  National  Archives  helps  agencies  ensure  that 
necessary  records  are  created,  that  these  records  remain  available  as  long 
as  needed,  that  permanently  valuable  records  are  preserved,  and  that  other 
records  are  destroyed  when  they  are  no  longer  useful.  Basic  elements  of  the 
National  Archives’ records  administration  program  are'issuing  regulations 
and  guidance,  providing  training,  evaluating  agency  programs,  and  apprais¬ 
ing  records  to  determine  their  appropriate  disposition.  This  last  activity  is 
particularly  important  because  no  Federal  records  may  be  destroyed 
without  the  approval  of  the  Archivist  of  the  United  States. 

The  National  Archives  decided  to  sponsor  the  Electronic  Records  Conference 
because  of  the  need  to  improve  the  management  of  records  in  electronic  in¬ 
formation  systems  to  ensure  their  availability  to  future  generations.  The  Na¬ 
tional  Archives  relies  upon  those  who  are  involved  on  a  daily  basis  with 


Conference  Report 


7 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


electronic  systems  to  ensure  that  agency  programs  and  activities  are  ade¬ 
quately  documented  and  that  the  record  is  preserved.  Finally,  the  National 
Archives  is  ready  to  commit  resources  to  refining  and  implementing  the 
recommendations  of  the  Electronic  Records  Conference. 


The  Technological  Future  Webb  Castor 

In  his  remarks  Castor  discussed  the  Information  Age.  He  said  that  technol¬ 
ogy  should  be  viewed  as  an  enabler  rather  than  the  driving  force.  The  future 
holds  dramatic  changes  and  enormous  opportunities.  There  are  three  keys 
to  the  technological  future:  anticipation,  innovation,  and  quality.  But  the 
transition  is  difficult.  The  three  possible  reactions  to  change  include  rejec¬ 
tion,  failure  to  see  contradictory  information,  or  adaptation  fit.  There  are 
three  sources  of  innovation — the  very  young,  older  career  changers,  and 
tinkerers. 

Quality  is  another  key  element  in  technological  change.  It  is  important  to 
serve  your  customers  and  to  make  a  quality  product. 

In  the  United  States  two-thirds  of  the  research  and  development  dollar  is 
spent  on  new  products  and  one-third  on  production  systems.  In  Japan  this  is 
reversed.  Quality  is  costly  for  the  first  few  years,  and  financial  systems  that 
are  too  bottom-line  in  orientation  can  discourage  a  commitment  to  quality. 

The  predominant  occupational  setting  of  the  work  force  has  changed  from 
agriculture,  through  manufacturing,  to  service-oriented  industries,  with 
more  than  half  of  these  last  being  information  services.  Now  people  do 
things  but  do  not  make  things,  yet  most  businesses  still  operate  in  a 
manufacturing-oriented  model.  In  the  workplace  there  were  24  million  new 
jobs  created  from  1975  to  1985.  While  the  revenues  of  Fortune  500  com¬ 
panies  continued  to  increase,  their  employment  was  down.  Eighty-five  per¬ 
cent  of  the  new  jobs  are  in  companies  with  100  or  fewer  employees. 

The  amount  of  information  is  growing  rapidly  and  its  “shelf  life”  becoming 
briefer  and  briefer.  In  the  next  20  years  there  will  be  10,000  times  as  much 
information  as  there  is  today — as  if  every  piece  of  paper  now  in  existence 
were  to  become  an  encyclopedia.  Vast  amounts  of  information  must  be  fil¬ 
tered  to  produce  action.  In  the  future  we  can  anticipate  intelligent  work  sta¬ 
tions  that  will  check  for  relevant  information.  There  is  a  convergence  of 
three  activities  into  one  area — movies,  computers,  and  publishing.  So  we 
must  consider  how  to  consolidate  and  deliver  information.  We  must  use  dif¬ 
ferent,  variable  media  to  increase  our  learning  speed  and  conserve  room  in 
our  heads  by  hierarchical  orientation. 

Today  90  percent  of  the  information  in  a  company  is  proprietary,  but  some¬ 
times  automation  for  one  purpose  fulfills  a  more  important  purpose  that 
was  not  anticipated.  So,  there  is  a  shift  to  external,  nonproprietary  informa¬ 
tion.  There  is  democratization  of  the  information. 


8 


Conference  Report 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  199Q,s 


In  the  1960’s  different  companies  were  involved  with  different  aspects  of  in¬ 
formation  resources  management  and  a  few  companies  dominated — IBM 
with  data  processing,  AT&T  with  communications,  and  Xerox  with  docu¬ 
ment  processing.  Today  there  is  a  convergence  of  these  and  there  are  many 
other  players. 

In  industry  today,  95  percent  of  information  is  stored  on  paper,  4  percent  on 
microfilm,  and  1  percent  on  electronic  media.  There  are  two  islands — data 
and  documents — these  islands  need  to  be  linked.  Organizations  are 
governed  by  their  information  relationships.  This  results  in  four  technical 
implications  for  the  future:  connectivity,  communications,  collaboration, 
and  cognition. 

An  Arthur  B.  Little  study  of  customers’  information  resources  management 
needs  found  these  to  be:  integration  of  data  bases;  improved  connectivity 
and  compatibility;  improved  cost/performance;  and  strategic  and  operational 
relevance  including  productivity  improvement  and  a  competitive  advantage. 

Comparing  paper  to  electronic  records,  it  may  be  seen  that  the  “paperless  of¬ 
fice”  is  far  off  because  of  the  advantages  of  paper,  including  durability, 
readability,  editability,  and  portability,  as  well  as  its  status  as  a  universal  in¬ 
formation  exchange  medium.  Customers  need  both  paper  and  electronic 
records  for  various  uses.  Connecting  the  corporate  information  base  means 
dealing  with  paper,  electronic  images,  and  the  electronic  content.  Technol¬ 
ogy  is  developing  to  allow  this  connectivity. 

Finally,  what  to  look  for  in  the  technological  future  is:  scanning — images, 
OCR,  and  intelligent;  global  networks;  electronic  mail  as  the  primary 
vehicle  for  communications;  groupware  and  collaborative  software;  intel¬ 
ligent  work  stations;  intelligent  user  interfaces;  data/document/information 
bases  with  nonlinear  access;  intelligent  storage  and  retrieval;  multifunction 
devices;  distributed  functions;  multimedia  online;  hypermedia;  dynamic 
documents;  and  increased  man-machine  symbiosis. 


The  Managerial  Future  John  J.  Franke,  Jr. 

In  his  address  Franke  spoke  about  the  need  to  not  only  try  to  determine 
what  the  future  will  be  like,  but  also  to  prepare  for  it.  He  spoke  about  what 
the  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  (USDA)  is  doing  to  shape  the  future. 

The  USDA  calls  its  vision  of  the  future  its  “Strategic  Framework.”  The  title 
of  the  document  containing  this  strategic  framework  is  “The  Future  of  Infor¬ 
mation  Resources  Management  in  the  United  States  Department  of  Agricul¬ 
ture.”  It  describes  USDA’s  view  of  IRM,  between  now  and  1995.  There  are 
four  major  areas  of  concern:  improving  Government  management  and 
productivity;  improving  management  of  information;  improving  information 
delivery  to  the  public;  and  increasing  effective  use  of  technology. 


Conference  Report 


9 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


Improved  Government  management  and  productivity.  In  the  area  of  im¬ 
proved  Government  management  and  productivity  USDA  seeks  a  future  of: 
improved  delivery  of  program  services;  Department-  wide  sharing  of  ad¬ 
ministrative  and  program  data;  and  commitment  to  streamlined  methods  of 
delivering  services  to  the  public.  Accomplishing  these  goals  requires  the  in¬ 
volvement  of  the  staff.  It  is  essential  to  have  strategies  for  attracting,  hiring, 
training,  motivating,  and  retaining  talented  employees. 

Individuals  can  focus  on  quality  and  productivity  improvement,  using  steps 
identified  in  the  President’s  Council  on  Management  Improvement’s  1988 
Annual  Report  to  the  President.  These  are:  emphasize  customer  service; 
train  employees  in  problem-solving  skills  and  seek  their  participation  in  im¬ 
proving  current  operations;  reward  employees  for  quality  and  productivity 
achievements;  set  quality  and  productivity  goals  for,  and  require  account¬ 
ability  of,  managers  in  meeting  these  goals;  and  develop  clear  quality  and 
productivity  measures  to  track  progress. 

Improved  management  of  information.  Improvements  in  the  way  we  manage 
information  are  needed  because  we  are  an  information-based  society;  but,  be¬ 
cause  of  technology,  we  face  information  overload. 

In  the  electronic  environment  there  is  concern  about  the  creation  and  preser¬ 
vation  of  and  access  to  records.  Some  individuals  have  suggested  that  if  we 
want  to  ensure  that  important  records  are  kept,  we  should  keep  everything, 
since  storage  costs  continue  to  decrease.  However,  indiscriminate  retention 
would  cause  serious  problems  with  retrieval. 

Program  managers  must  understand  that  because  technology  allows  us  to 
create,  manipulate,  and  maintain  so  much  information,  we  have  to  be  even 
more  diligent  in  applying  good  information  management  practices.  Those 
levying  information  collection  requirements  must  question  the 
requirements’  necessity,  usefulness,  cost,  and  collection  techniques. 

Improved  information  delivery  to  the  public.  There  is  pressure  for  increased 
access  to  Government  information.  Improvements  in  technology  make  it  pos¬ 
sible  to  allow  this  increased  access,  but  allowing  non-Federal  personnel  to 
access  program  information  raises  policy  issues  related  to  security,  privacy, 
and  proprietary  considerations.  By  1995,  USDA  expects  to  see  changes  in 
the  way  it  provides  information  to  the  public,  including  online  access,  voice- 
activated  systems  for  delivery  and  collection  of  information,  electronic 
generation  and  distribution  of  published  reports,  and  direct  electronic  inter¬ 
face  between  the  agency  and  organizations  that  receive  USDA  grants. 

Increased  effectiveness  in  the  use  of  technology.  Even  before  1995  arrives, 
technology  will  no  longer  be  a  barrier  in  processing  and  sharing  information 
in  USDA.  It  will  also  not  hinder  the  establishment  of  effective  data  inter¬ 
faces  with  external  organizations. 


10 


Conference  Report 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


The  following  developments  will  aid  in  more  effectively  using  technology: 
direct  links  between  mainframe  computer  centers,  which  will  provide  for 
work  force  leveling  and  backup  capability;  implementation  of  Open  Systems 
Interconnection  (OSI),  which  will  allow  improved  internal  information 
delivery;  electronic  generation  and  distribution  of  reports;  employees  work¬ 
ing  at  home  under  certain  circumstances  because  of  the  flexibility  provided 
by  microcomputers  and  network  technologies;  increased  use  of  source-data 
automation,  including  electronic  capture  and  transmission  of  administrative 
data,  smart  card  applications  for  benefit  delivery,  hand-held  data  entry 
devices,  and  voice-  activated  devices;  and  implementation  of  information 
storage  and  retrieval  systems  using  state-of-the-art  technology,  such  as  opti¬ 
cal  disks. 

Making  the  vision  a  reality.  Accomplishing  any  vision  requires  effectively  im¬ 
proving  program  delivery.  Some  long-  and  short-term  actions  at  USDA  in¬ 
clude:  development  of  a  centralized  philosophy  for  management  of 
information  resources;  integration  of  the  various  facets  of  computing  technol¬ 
ogy;  utilization  of  more  sophisticated  telecommunications  systems;  and  en¬ 
suring  the  availability  of  qualified  IRM  specialists,  trained  end  users,  and 
resources  to  acquire  needed  technology  to  implement  IRM  programs. 

It  is  necessary  to  reward  and  recognize  people  in  organizations  who  get 
things  started.  It  is  also  necessary  to  take  risks  and  to  be  open  to  new  ap¬ 
proaches  and  innovative  ways  of  doing  things. 

At  the  close  of  his  address,  Mr.  Franke  invited  the  conference  participants  to 
develop  recommendations  relating  to  the  management  of  electronic  records 
that  would  be  appropriate  for  him  to  submit  to  the  President’s  Council  on 
Management  Improvement  (PCMI)  for  action. 


The  Working  Groups 

Each  of  the  six  working  groups  at  the  Electronic  Records  Conference  was 
made  up  of  approximately  10  participants.  Each  group  dealt  with  a  separate 
topic.  The  groups  were  as  follows: 

1.  Organizational  and  Individual  Responsibilities,  led  by  Belkis  Leong- 
Hong  of  the  Department  of  Defense. 

2.  Corporate  Information  Management  —  Mission  Information  Systems,  led 
by  Barbara  A.  Cerny  of  the  Department  of  Energy. 

3.  Managing  Electronic  Records  in  the  Office  Environment,  led  by  Alan 
Proctor  of  the  Federal  Trade  Commission. 


Conference  Report 


11 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


4.  Legal  and  Security  Issues,  led  by  Jules  S.  Romagnoli  of  the  State  Depart¬ 
ment. 

5.  Records  Management  and  the  Design  and  Implementation  of  Electronic 
Information  Systems,  led  by  Wallace  O.  Keene  of  the  National 
Aeronautics  and  Space  Administration. 

6.  Collection  and  Dissemination  of  Information,  led  by  Fred  B.  Wood,  Office 
of  Technology  Assessment,  U.S.  Congress. 


Working  Group  1:  Organizational  and 
Individual  Responsibilities 

Scope  of  Concern: 

Recordkeeping  and  records  management  are  functions  that  are  essential  to 
every  government  organization  and  to  each  individual  within  those  organiza¬ 
tions.  The  longstanding  problems  facing  recordkeeping  and  records  manage¬ 
ment  have  been  aggravated  by  electronic  recordkeeping. 

Issues: 

1.  The  Paperwork  Reduction  Act  (PRA)  does  not  specifically  spell  out  agen¬ 
cy  responsibilities  for  records  management.  Since  the  Act  is  being 
reauthorized,  there  is  an  opportunity  to  correct  this. 

2.  Records  management  is  not  a  “sexy”  issue.  Top  management,  middle 
management,  and  working  staffs  are  not  aware  of  their  records 
management  responsibilities  and  are  not  motivated  to  take  them 
seriously. 

3.  Individual  program  managers  are  interested  in  records  management 
only  to  the  extent  that  it  directly  affects  their  immediate  program 
operations  and  mission  accomplishments.  But  there  are  others, 
beyond  the  program  manager,  who  would  benefit  from  more  extensive 
records  management.  For  example,  auditors,  top  managers  who  are  in¬ 
terested  in  establishing  accountability,  Congress,  the  public,  and  fu¬ 
ture  generations.  How  are  the  interests  of  these  people  beyond  the 
immediate  program  manager  accommodated  in  records  management 
programs? 

4.  The  General  Services  Administration  (GSA),  the  National  Archives  and 
Records  Administration  (NARA),  and  the  Office  of  Management  and 
Budget  (OMB)  share  responsibility  for  issuing  records  management 
regulations.  However,  each  has  its  own  issuance  system.  Agencies 
should  be  able  to  go  to  one  place  for  records  management  regulations. 


12 


Conference  Report 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


5.  The  definition  of  “machine-readable  record”  needs  to  be  clarified.  For  ex¬ 
ample,  it  is  not  clear  what  in  a  database  is  a  record,  what  should  be 
saved,  how  often,  etc.  Similarly,  Computer-Aided  Systems  Engineering 
(CASE)  and  Computer-Aided  Design  (CAD)  systems  raise  questions. 

6.  Records  management  considerations  are  often  not  included  in  automated 
information  systems  (AIS). 

Recommendations : 

1.  As  part  of  the  comment  process  on  the  Paperwork  Reduction  Act,  suggest 
language  clarifying  agency  responsibilities  related  to  records  manage¬ 
ment.  The  reauthorization  of  the  Act  should  explicitly  state  that 
records  management  is  part  of  Information  Resources  Management 
(IRM)  and  specify  Federal  agency  responsibilities  related  to  records 
management.  Agencies  should  support  this  change  when  they  are 
given  the  opportunity  to  comment  on  the  proposed  legislation.  Once 

the  PRA  is  changed,  agency  heads  should  issue  memorandums  to  their 
organizations  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  records  management. 

2.  Develop  an  education/awareness  program  for  records  management.  In¬ 
clude  the  following; 

•  For  top  and  middle  management,  develop  a  video  of  horror  and 
success  stories.  Use  this  as  a  motivational  tool. 

•  For  top  and  middle  management,  include  records  management 
training  in  courses  such  as  those  taught  by  the  Office  of  Personnel 
Management  at  Kings  Point  and  Denver. 

•  For  all  employees,  provide  records  management  training  in 
orientation  programs  when  people  first  enter  on  duty  and 
periodically  thereafter. 

•  For  staff  involved  in  IRM-related  specialties  such  as  computer 
systems  analysts,  ADP  procurement  staff,  legal  staff  involved  with 
the  Freedom  of  Information  and  Privacy  Acts,  and  others,  provide 
detailed  cross-training  in  records  management. 

•  For  records  management  staff,  provide  cross-training  in  other  IRM 
disciplines. 

NARA  should  take  the  lead  in  developing  the  basic  course  materials  and 
should  form  interagency  working  groups  to  develop  interest  in  using 
such  materials  in  agency  training  programs.  OPM  should  include 
records  management  in  their  courses.  Agency  IRM’s  should  sponsor 
courses  for  IRM  specialists  and  records  managers  to  provide  cross¬ 
training. 


Conference  Report 


13 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  199Q,s 


3.  Build  in  mechanisms  to  involve  other  stakeholders  beyond  individual  pro¬ 
gram  managers  in  records  management,  thus  expanding  the  base  of 
support  for  records  management.  Include  making  reviews  of  records 
management  a  specific  topic  of:  Agency  IRM  reviews,  GSA IRM 
reviews,  Office  of  Inspector  General  reviews,  and  General  Accounting 
Office  reviews.  Ask  the  President’s  Council  on  Management  Improve¬ 
ment  (PCMI)  and  the  President’s  Council  on  Integrity  and  Efficiency 
(PCIE)  to  direct  agencies  to  include  records  management  in  overall 
review  programs. 

4.  Place  all  records  management  regulations  in  GSA’s  Federal  Information 
Resources  Management  Regulations  (FIRMR).  Ask  the  PCMI  to  recom¬ 
mend  to  GSA,  OMB,  and  NARA  that  they  centralize  regulations  in  the 
FIRMR.  The  three  agencies  would  need  to  get  together  to  decide 
whether  and  how  to  implement  this  change.  If  the  three  agencies  dis¬ 
agree,  they  should  be  required  to  justify  why  to  the  PCMI.  If  there  is 
agreement,  implementation  would  follow. 

5.  NARA  should  develop  a  clarification  of  the  definition  of  machine- 
readable  records,  solicit  comments  from  agencies,  and  give  the  new 
definition  to  GSA  for  publication  in  the  FIRMR.  NARA  could  solicit 
input  from  agencies  on  what  their  questions  are  related  to  defining 
machine-readable  records  and  use  this  as  a  starting  point  for  develop¬ 
ing  clarification. 

6.  Establish  procedures  to  involve  records  managers  in  the  design  of 
automated  information  systems  (AIS).  Include  requirements  for 
records  managers’  involvement  in  agency  directives  on  system  develop¬ 
ment.  Use  existing  AIS  review  and  oversight  mechanisms  to  ensure 
that  records  management  requirements  have  been  addressed.  Assign 
responsibility  for  creation,  maintenance,  and  disposition  of  electronic 
records  during  the  AIS  design  phase. 


Working  Group  2:  Corporate  Information 
Management 


Scope  of  Concern: 

Records  management  concerns  are  particularly  crucial  in  the  area  of  mis¬ 
sion  information  systems — those  systems  that  directly  support  the  mission 
of  the  agency. 


14 


Conference  Report 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990,s 


Issues: 

1.  Technology  is  causing  the  management  of  records  to  be  isolated  from 
their  creation.  It  used  to  be  that  anyone  could  deal  with  records  be¬ 
cause  they  were  on  paper,  now  with  the  multitude  of  hardware  and 
software  applications,  average  personnel  cannot  manage  them. 

2.  There  has  been  a  great  deal  of  emphasis  on  productivity  and  efficiency  in 
government  in  recent  years  with,  perhaps  not  enough  emphasis  on 
quality  and  service. 

Recommendations : 

1.  Balance  the  emphasis  on  productivity  and  efficiency  with  an  emphasis  on 
quality  and  service. 

•  Work  through  the  PCMI  to  influence  OMB  and  Congress. 

•  Develop  a  task  group  from  this  conference  to  gain  Congressional 
support. 

•  Use  the  “Management  by  Objectives”  process  to  achieve  integration 
of  information  management  with  program  objectives. 

•  Brief  interagency  committees  to  establish  broad-based  support  for 
the  quality  and  service  orientation. 

•  Develop  a  FIRMR  Bulletin. 

•  Gain  visibility  for  the  new  focus  in  the  trade  press  and  professional 
journals  to  stimulate  dialogue. 

2.  Establish  an  interagency  task  group  to  consolidate  and  integrate  ap¬ 
propriate  directives  relating  to  information  management. 

•  Identify  relevant  directives. 

•  Simplify,  consolidate,  and  integrate. 

•  Develop  a  strategy  to  maintain  the  consolidated  approach. 

3.  Revise  the  call  for  IRM  plans  to  include  discussion  of  how  all  aspects  of 
information  management  (e.g.,  records  management,  printing,  publica¬ 
tions,  mail  management)  support  the  mission  of  the  agency. 

4.  Review  the  impact  of  the  budget  process  on  IRM. 

•  Obtain  input  and  ideas  from  other  Government  agencies  on  the 
impact  of  the  budget  process  on  planning. 

•  Initiate  discussion  with  OMB  to  review  consequences  of  the  current 
budget  structure. 


Conference  Report 


15 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990*5 


5.  Develop  guidelines  to  assist  agencies  in  implementing  the  new  focus  on 
quality  and  service.  Identify  the  payoffs  that  will  accrue  from  informa¬ 
tion  management  and  the  new  focus. 


Working  Group  3:  Managing  Electronic 
Records  in  the  Office  Environment 

Scope  of  concern: 

Electronic  records  are  created  daily  by  employees  as  they  go  about  their 
work  in  the  office  using  a  variety  of  computer  systems.  Because  there  is  lit¬ 
tle  centralized  control  over  the  creation  and  use  of  these  records  a  major  con¬ 
cern  is  ensuring  that  these  records  are  available  as  long  as  necessary. 

Issues: 

1.  The  NARA  standard  for  transfer  of  electronic  information  places  unrealis¬ 
tic  burdens  on  agencies.  This  tends  to  discourage  agency  transfer  of 
permanent  records  in  electronic  form. 

2.  Internal  agency  standards  are  often  not  sufficiently  defined  to  facilitate 
consistently  effective  storage  of  and  subsequent  access  to  electronic 
records.  This  leads  to  inconsistent,  “idiosyncratic”  storage  of  informa¬ 
tion. 

3.  Documents  may  be  duplicated  in  or  omitted  from  agency  storage  systems 
(including  individual,  work-group,  and  agency  systems)  due  to  a 
variety  of  factors  including: 

•  the  absence  of  procedures  that  define  and  structure  a  system  for 
storing,  capturing,  and  retrieving  corporate  information; 

•  the  lack  of  effective  incentives  (positive  and  negative)  to  encourage 
compliance  with  established  regulations  or  requirements;  and 

•  the  lack  of  individual  knowledge  of  responsibilities  and  procedures 
(which  is  becoming  increasingly  important  as  systems  are 
becoming  more  decentralized). 

4.  Loss  of  software  necessary  to  interpret  and  display  documents  in  their 
original  format.  (Note  that  problems  increase  with  the  shift  from  text 
to  database-type  information.) 

5.  Fragmentation  of  responsibility  for  developing  and  supporting  Govern¬ 
ment-wide  records  management  policies  and  procedures  among 
NARA,  GSA,  OMB,  GAO,  etc.  has  led  to  delay  in  development  and  im¬ 
plementation  of  critical  policy  and  inaction  on  the  part  of  all  agencies. 


16 


Conference  Report 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


6.  Records  management  programs  should  be  made  an  integral  element  of 
an  overall  information  management  program  as  an  extension  of  the 
data  administration  function. 

Recommendations: 

1.  The  oversight  agencies  should  support  legislative  action  needed  to 
eliminate  the  current  fragmentation  of  records  management  and  IRM 
responsibilities  among  GSA,  NARA,  and  OMB. 

2.  NARA  should  request,  and  the  other  oversight  agencies  should  support, 
funding  to  enable  NARA  to  acquire  permanent  records  that  are  not  in 
an  archival  medium. 

3.  Agencies  should  develop  standard  file  storage  and  retrieval  systems  to 
which  authors  can  send  electronic  copies  of  documents  for  storage  and 
adopt  procedures  and  provide  sufficient  training  to  assure  consistent 
usage. 

4.  OPM,  GSA,  NARA,  and  individual  agencies  should  develop  opportunities 
for  cross-training  for  data  processing  and  records  management  staff 
members,  and  awareness-training  at  the  work-group  level. 

5.  Government  oversight  agencies,  including  OMB,  GSA,  NARA,  and  NIST, 
should  get  together  to  fund  development  of  expert  systems  that  Would 
assist  in,  if  not  automate,  the  processes  of  determining  whether  a  docu¬ 
ment  is  a  record,  how  it  should  be  filed,  disposed  of,  and  released 
under  the  Freedom  of  Information  Act.  A  preliminary  step  would  be  to 
set  up  a  prototype  electronic  system  through  agencies  which  could  in¬ 
ventory  and  manage  their  records  and  electronically  transmit  records 
schedules  to  NARA. 

6.  Agencies  should  improve  internal  incentives  for  compliance  with  estab¬ 
lished  IRM  policies  and  procedures  by  gaining  support  of  senior  pro¬ 
gram  managers,  demonstrating  direct  benefits,  rewarding  cooperation, 
and  penalizing  noncompliance. 

7.  Agencies  should  develop  and  implement  systems  that  “embed”  records 
management  activities  (indexing,  storing,  determining  FOIA  and 
Privacy  Act  status,  and  retention  and  disposition)  in  processes 
through  which  individual  documents  are  created.  Such  a  system  could 
also  initiate  author  review  and  deletion  of  preliminary  ‘Versions”  of 
final  documents  (intermediate  drafts  or  notes)  not  appropriate  for 
retention. 


Conference  Report 


17 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


Working  Group  4:  Legal  and  Security  Issues 

Scope  of  concern: 

Electronic  records  pose  a  number  of  special  challenges  in  the  areas  of  deter¬ 
mining  their  legal  status  and  what  changes  need  to  be  made  in  laws  and 
regulations  to  make  them  applicable  to  electronic  records.  In  addition,  infor¬ 
mation  recorded  in  electronic  form  can  be  particularly  vulnerable  and  this 
requires  attention  to  security. 

Issues: 

1.  There  is  a  need  for  a  broad  policy  on  computer  security. 

2.  There  need  to  be  standards  for  implementation  of  technical  means  (e.g. 
cryptography  or  trusted  operating  systems)  to  ensure  confidentiality, 
integrity,  and  legal  sufficiency  of  electronic  records. 

3.  Managerial  training  concerning  legal  and  security  issues  brought  about 
by  changing  information  technologies  should  include  coverage  of 
electronic  records. 

4.  The  guidelines  issued  by  the  Department  of  the  Justice  on  the  admis¬ 
sibility  of  electronic  records  as  evidence  have  only  been  issued  in  draft 
form.  These  need  to  be  finalized. 

5.  There  is  a  need  for  more  extensive  guidelines  for  release  of  electronic 
records  under  the  Freedom  of  Information  and  Privacy  Acts. 

Recommendations: 

1.  OMB  should  update  Circular  A-130,  Appendix  III,  to  incorporate  require¬ 
ments  of  the  Computer  Security  Act  of  1987.  The  PCMI  should  develop 
“guidelines”  to  assist  agencies  in  implementing  the  requirements. 

2.  The  National  Security  Agency  and  the  National  Institute  of  Standards 
and  Technology  should  develop  standards  for  technical  means  to  en¬ 
sure  the  confidentiality,  integrity,  and  legal  sufficiency  of  electronic 
records. 

3.  The  Office  of  Personnel  Management  should  incorporate  material  on 
electronic  records  into  managerial  training  concerning  legal  and 
security  issues  brought  about  by  changing  information  technologies. 

4.  The  Department  of  Justice  should  finalize  and  systematically  update 
guidelines  on  the  use  of  electronic  information  as  evidence. 


18 


Conference  Report 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  199Q's 


5.  The  Department  of  Justice  should  develop  and  maintain  guidelines  for 
release  of  electronically  stored  information  under  the  existing  access 
statutes. 


Working  Group  5:  Records  Management  and 
the  Design  and  Implementation  ofElectronic 
Information  Systems 

Scope  of  Concern: 

It  is  necessary  to  effectively  and  efficiently  provide  for  records  management 
in  the  design  and  implementation  of  electronic  information  systems.  The 
group  defined  “records”  as  information  that  is  recorded  on  any  medium  that 
documents  the  activities  of  the  Government  and  is  deemed  appropriate  for 
preservation  for  some  period  of  time. 

Issues: 

1.  The  pending  reauthorization  of  the  Paperwork  Reduction  Act  (PRA) 
presents  an  immediate  target  of  opportunity  to  provide  Federal 
managers  with  a  mandate  to  broaden  their  perspective  when  design¬ 
ing  and  implementing  electronic  information  systems.  This  action 
would  also  have  the  very  positive  result  of  causing  a  revision  to  OMB 
Circular  A-130,  which  is  the  implementing  guidance  for  Federal  agen¬ 
cies. 

2.  OMB  issued  the  “Model  Framework  for  Control  Over  Automated  Informa¬ 
tion  System”  in  1988  as  a  guideline  to  enable  managers  to  easily  un¬ 
derstand  what  is  required  to  incorporate  controls  into  the  life  cycle 
management  of  their  systems.  A  modification  of  this  methodology  to 
reflect  the  needs  of  the  records  management  community  would  seem 

to  be  a  reasonable  first  step  towards  involving  the  records  manage¬ 
ment  considerations  in  the  design  of  automated  information  systems, 
however  no  organization  has  been  assigned  to  “update  and  maintain” 
the.  methodology. 

If  the  central  agencies  (NARA,  GSA,  OMB,  and  NIST)  are  able  to  desig¬ 
nate  someone  to  lead  this  effort,  a  major  advance  will  have  been  taken 
toward  assuring  that  a  broad  range  of  information-  related  require¬ 
ments  can  be  understood  and,  as  a  consequence,  met.  The  revised 
methodological  guideline  could  be  issued  as  perhaps  a  revision  to  Cir¬ 
cular  A-130,  a  change  to  the  FIRMR,  or  as  an  NIST  series  500  publica¬ 
tion. 


Conference  Report 


19 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


3.  The  distribution  of  draft  materials  would  not  only  go  to  all  Federal  agen¬ 
cies,  but  care  would  also  have  to  be  taken  to  ensure  that  it  gets  to  the 
people  responsible  for  all  relevant  functions.  Sending  the  material 

only  to  the  designated  Senior  Official  for  IRM  will  not  necessarily  get 
it  reviewed  by  the  FOIA  official,  who  is  frequently  in  the  Public  Affairs 
Office,  or  the  Internal  Controls  officer  who  is  frequently  in  Finance,  or 
the  Privacy  Act  official  who  is  frequently  in  Personnel. 

4.  There  are  several  impediments  to  undertaking  the  development  effort. 

•  There  may  be  a  certain  amount  of  apathy  on  the  part  of  the  central 
agencies.  This  may  be  overcome  if  there  is  success  in  modifying  the 
PRA  to  require  a  more  holistic  approach,  such  as  the  one  now  being 
recommended. 

•  There  may  be  a  lack  of  resources  to  undertake  the  activity.  This 
might  be  overcome  by  providing  some  examples  of  what  happens 
when  the  requirements  have  to  be  addressed  later,  when  the 
system  is  operational  rather  than  in  the  system  design. 

•  Once  the  document  is  developed  there  may  be  impediments  in 
getting  it  used,  such  as  general  resistance  to  change, 
organizational  barriers  (since  every  IRM  organization  in  the 
Government  is  different),  competing  priorities  for  attention,  and 
lack  of  resources. 

5.  There  is  a  need  to  market  the  results  to  those  who  would  be  required  to 
implement  the  requirements. 

Recommendations: 

1.  Seize  the  opportunity  at  hand  with  the  pending  reauthorization  of  the 
Paperwork  Reduction  Act  to  require  the  Federal  Government  to  take  a 
more  holistic  approach  to  the  design  and  implementation  of  its 
electronic  information  systems  with  the  view  that  a  better  integration 
of  records  management  and  other  needs  will  be  met. 

2.  Encourage  the  central  agencies  to  give  someone  the  job  of  maintaining  a 
System  Development  Life  Cycle  Model  around  which  the  requirements 
for  records  management  and  other  needs  might  be  brought  into  a  com¬ 
mon,  easily  understood  focus. 

3.  NARA  take  the  lead  and  seek  GSA  support  in  identifying  the  records 
management-related  system  development  life  cycle  framework,  using 
the  OMB  Model  Framework  as  a  guideline. 

4.  Concurrently  develop  a  marketing  program  to  sell  the  now  integrated 
view  to  those  who  must  implement  it. 


20 


Conference  Report 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


Working  Group  6:  Information  Collection  and 
Dissemination 

Scope  of  Concern: 

What  are  the  appropriate  roles  of  the  Government  and  the  private  sector  in 

collection  and  dissemination? 

Issues: 

1.  In  the  area  of  Government  contracts  for  collection  or  creation  of  informa¬ 
tion,  there  is  a  question  of  whether  the  contractor  should  be  allowed  to 
profit  from  marketing  information  collected  at  public  expense,  or 
should  information  that  the  taxpayers  paid  for  be  defined  as  in  the 
public  domain  and  made  available  like  any  other  information  the 
Government  has? 

2.  Is  the  Government  responsible  for  disseminating  information  or  merely 
for  making  it  available?  Tb  what  extent  does  private  business  have  a 
right  to  profit  from  the  dissemination  of  public  information? 

3.  What  are  the  roles  and  responsibilities  of  Federal  agencies  in  the  dissemi¬ 
nation  of  information  in  electronic  form? 

4.  How  can  we  pay  for  the  information  technology  related  to  information  col¬ 
lection,  storage,  dissemination,  and  preservation? 

Recommendations: 

1.  Federal  information  dissemination  should  involve  a  balancing  of  public 
and  private  sector  roles.  The  Government  has  the  responsibility  to  en¬ 
sure  that  information  collected  or  developed  at  taxpayers’  expense, 
regardless  of  format,  is  available  to  the  public  and,  where  appropriate, 
is  included  in  dissemination  and  retention  programs. 

2.  At  a  minimum,  the  private  sector  has  the  opportunity  and  should  be  en¬ 
couraged  to  resell  or  enhance  as  determined  by  market  forces,  publicly 
available  Government  information.  For  information  dissemination  and 
collection,  any  Government  agency  contracting  with  the  private  sector 
should  ensure  equitable  public  access  and  a  level,  competitive  playing 
field  for  vendors. 

3.  The  Government  has  the  highest  responsibility  to  ensure  that  informa¬ 
tion  about  Government  policies,  procedures,  decisions,  regulatory 
proceedings,  and  other  activities  is  available  to  the  public  without 
hindrance  of  any  sort. 


Conference  Report 


21 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


4.  The  general  policy  directions  in  the  OMB  June  15,  1989,  Advance  Notice 
of  Federal  Information  Dissemination  Policy  and  HR  2381,  the 
proposed  Information  Policy  Act  of  1989,  are  commendable  and  should 
be  farther  developed.  However,  a  number  of  key  areas  identified  below 
are  inadequately  covered  and  should  be  strengthened. 

5.  The  Depository  Library  Program  (DLP)  must  include  electronic  informa¬ 
tion  formats,  to  protect  the  integrity  of  this  avenue  of  public  access. 

6.  The  primary  responsibility  for  Federal  information  dissemination  should 
rest  with  the  mission  agencies.  However,  agencies  should  submit  lists 

of  electronic  information  products  to  the  Government  Printing  Office 
(GPO),  the  National  Technical  Information  Service  (NTIS),  and  NARA. 

7.  GPO  should  ensure  that  the  depository  libraries  are  advised  of  electronic 
information  products  and  select,  subject  to  availability  of  funds,  items 
desired  for  inclusion  in  the  DLP. 

8.  GPO  should  include  items  in  the  GPO  sales  program  judged  to  have  addi¬ 
tional  demand  not  being  met  by  the  agencies  or  where  agencies  desire 

to  have  GPO  serve  as  the  primary  sales  outlet. 

9.  GPO,  NTIS,  and  NARA  should  collaborate  on  the  compilation  of  a 
Government-wide  directory  of  information  products  based  on  in¬ 
dividual  directories  prepared  by  agencies,  and  should  develop  a  plan 
for  an  integrated,  common  directory  format. 

10.  The  Paperwork  Reduction  Act  should  be  amended  to  further  strengthen 
due  process  and  periodic  oversight  requirements,  including  periodic 
rather  than  permanent  reauthorization  by  Congress. 

11.  Agency  automation  planning  should  explicitly  include  collection,  dis¬ 
semination,  and  retention,  and  should  identify  ways  to  fund  such  ac¬ 
tivities,  including  productivity  improvements,  cost  sharing  with 
private  sector  (used  very  cautiously  to  ensure  equitable  access  and 
competitive  equity),  more  cost-effective  media,  and  user  charges. 

12.  User  charges  for  Federal  information  dissemination  or  access  should 
not  exceed  the  agency  cost  of  such  activities,  with  lower  or  no  charges 
permissible  at  the  discretion  of  the  agency  head. 

13.  The  revised  OMB  Circular  and  legislation,  including  HR  2381  and  other 
bills,  should  explicitly  address  the  roles  of  GPO,  NTIS,  and  NARA, 
clarify  user  charges,  and  strengthen  due  process. 


22 


Conference  Report 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


Recommendations  to  the 
President's  Council  on 
Management  Improvement 


Responding  to  John  Franke’s  challenge  to  the  conference  to  develop  recom¬ 
mendations  to  be  taken  to  the  President’s  Council  on  Management  Improve¬ 
ment,  a  subcommittee  met  and  developed  the  following  items,  which  were 
submitted  to  Mr.  Franke  on  August  15, 1989. 

1.  Position  classification  standard  for  information  resources  managers. 
Issue  statement: 

The  quality  of  the  Federal  work  force  is  dependent  on  the  Government’s 
ability  to  recruit,  train,  reward,  and  retain  competent,  energetic,  and  crea¬ 
tive  employees.  This  is  especially  true  in  the  field  of  information  resources 
management.  Changes  in  technology,  as  well  as  growth  in  the  amount  and 
complexity  of  information  itself  require  professional  employees  who  are 
knowledgeable  about  the  broad  spectrum  of  concerns  and  able  to  translate 
their  knowledge  into  practical  applications.  The  absence  of  a  position  clas¬ 
sification  standard  for  information  resources  managers  has  hampered  the 
Government’s  ability  to  recruit  and  retain  such  individuals. 

Action  requested: 

Direct  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  to  establish  a  position  classifica¬ 
tion  standard  for  information  resources  managers.  As  part  of  this  process, 
OPM  should  determine  which  job  series  now  otherwise  classified  should  be¬ 
come  part  of  the  new  series.  In  addition,  there  should  be  both  professional 
and  paraprofessional  job  titles,  including  grades  from  entry  level  through 
the  Senior  Executive  Service. 

Background: 

The  difficulty  of  recruiting  and  retaining  personnel  trained  and  experienced 
in  information  resources  management  has  been  well  documented  by  inter¬ 
agency  groups.  Groups  that  have  addressed  the  question  include  the 
General  Accounting  Office,  interagency  task  groups,  and  the  National 
Academy  of  Public  Administration  in  their  report,  “Federal  Information 
Resources  Management:  Bridging  Vision  and  Action.”  This  report  asserts 
that  skills  are  needed  in  data  administration,  standards  development,  infor¬ 
mation  technology  management,  information  systems  project  management, 
information  needs  assessment,  and  security  and  telecommunications 


Recommendations  to  the  President7 s  Council  on  Management  Improvement 


23 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


management.  Further,  the  need  for  individuals  with  these  skills  is  intensify¬ 
ing  as  the  Federal  Government  moves  from  the  procurement  of  information 
technology  to  managing  information  itself.  Yet  the  Government’s  ability  to 
recruit  and  retain  individuals  with  these  skills  in  competition  with  the 
private  sector  is  hampered  by  the  lack  of  a  professional  information  resour¬ 
ces  management  position  classification  standard. 

In  addition,  as  it  now  stands  there  is  a  great  deal  of  division  among  the 
professions  that  are  part  of  information  resources  management.  There  are 
many  different  job  classifications.  Some  are  professional  and  some  non¬ 
professional.  Each  has  a  different  grade  structure.  There  is  no  cross-training 
and  very  little  cross-communication.  None  of  this  promotes  the  goal  of  a 
work  force  with  broad  vision  and  flexibility. 

Discussion: 

The  issue  of  a  separate  classification  standard  for  information  resources 
managers  has  been  addressed  by  a  number  of  groups.  An  interagency  group 
under  the  direction  of  the  General  Services  Administration  examined  the 
current  classification  of  individuals  working  in  information  resources 
management  disciplines  and  identified  elements  appropriate  for  inclusion  in 
an  information  resources  management  classification  standard.  The  Depart¬ 
ment  of  Defense  has  prepared  a  draft  classification  standard  for  an  Informa¬ 
tion  Systems  Manager  job  series.  DOD’s  work  combined  with  that  of  the 
interagency  group  should  provide  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  with 
a  basis  to  pursue  the  establishment  of  a  new  classification  standard. 

An  information  resources  management  classification  standard  would  im¬ 
prove  the  Government’s  ability  to  recruit  and  retain  individuals  educated 
and  skilled  in  information  resources  management  disciplines.  It  would 
promote  flexibility  in  job  interchange,  recruiting,  and  rewarding  individuals. 
It  would  establish  information  resources  management  as  a  profession  ap¬ 
propriately  recognized  as  critical  to  the  successful  delivery  of  goods  and  ser¬ 
vices.  Most  importantly,  it  would  provide  the  Government  with  the 
personnel  resources  essential  for  improving  the  management  of  information 
in  support  of  agency  missions  and  administration  objectives. 

2.  Improve  the  efficiency  of  Federal  records  management  programs. 
Issue  statement: 

Increasingly,  Federal  agencies  are  turning  to  automated  systems  for  the  con¬ 
trol  and  monitoring  of  records  management  programs.  Because  all  agencies 
have  similar  records  management  requirements,  because  this  information 
will  need  to  be  shared  among  agencies,  and  because  these  systems  are  only 
now  being  implemented,  there  is  a  unique  opportunity  to  avoid  costly 
duplication  and  the  problems  that  result  when  incompatible  systems  are 
developed  to  address  common  needs. 


24 


Recommendations  to  the  President's  Council  on  Management  Improvement 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


Action  requested: 

Establish  a  PCMI  project  to  identify  exemplary  automated  records  manage¬ 
ment  systems  and  recommend  a  model  standard  system. 

Background: 

The  major  mechanism  for  managing  recorded  information  in  the  Federal 
Government  is  the  records  schedule.  Schedules  are  developed  by  all  Federal 
agencies  and  are  submitted  to  the  National  Archives  and  Records  Ad¬ 
ministration  (NARA)  for  review  and  approval.  Schedules  identify  records 
and  the  manner  and  period  of  time  they  must  be  maintained.  With  the  ex¬ 
ception  of  a  few  agencies,  this  information  is  currently  collected,  recorded, 
and  maintained  manually  by  the  agencies  and  by  NARA.  Those  few  agen¬ 
cies  which  have  automated  the  records  scheduling  process  have  realized 
numerous  benefits  including:  the  electronic  transfer  of  information  to  and 
from  NARA,  and  to  and  from  offices  throughout  the  agency;  the  generation 
of  information  identifying  the  location,  arrangement,  volume,  access  restric¬ 
tions,  security  requirements,  and  disposition  of  the  records  holdings  of  the 
agency;  the  automatic  production  of  reports  directing  organizational  units  to 
effect  disposition  action  (transfer  to  a  Federal  records  center  or  agency 
storage  area,  destroy,  transfer  to  the  National  Archives);  and  the  production 
of  management  reports  to  evaluate  and  improve  the  manner  in  which  the 
agency  is  managing  its  recorded  information. 

These  systems  will  substantially  reduce  the  costs  of  managing  recorded  in¬ 
formation  and  will  improve  information  available  about  the  records  holdings 
of  the  Federal  Government,  which,  in  turn  will  result  in  improved  manage¬ 
ment  controls  over  information. 

Discussion: 

In  1983  when  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget  directed  that  there  be 
no  more  that  one  personnel  and  one  payroll  system  per  agency  (five  for  the 
Department  of  Defense  and  none  for  agencies  under  6,000  FTE)  there  were 
132  different  personnel/payroll  systems  operating  in  the  Federal  govern¬ 
ment.  Five  years  later  the  number  had  dropped  to  53  and  it  is  projected  that 
there  will  only  be  10  to  12  personnel/payroll  systems  operating  in  the 
Federal  Government  by  the  early  1990’s. 

This  reduction  in  the  number  of  up-to-date  personnel/payroll  systems  was  in¬ 
itiated  by  those  who  understood  that  the  use  of  common  data  elements 
provides  consistent  government-wide  data  to  evaluate  operations  and  aid 
managerial  and  policy  decisions,  and  that  the  economies  of  scale  result  in 
major  operational  efficiencies  in  terms  of  software  maintenance,  cost  of  keep¬ 
ing  individual  records,  and  improvements  in  the  quality  and  timeliness  of 
personnel  and  payroll  systems.  Those  same  benefits  will  result  from  the 
development  of  a  standard  records  management  information  system.  Such  a 
standard  will  also  permit  the  exchange  of  information  between  and  among 


Recommendations  to  the  President's  Council  on  Management  Improvement 


25 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


agencies,  a  critical  requirement  since  information  on  agency  records  must  be 
furnished  to  the  National  Archives  to  obtain  the  Archivist’s  approval  for  the 
disposal  of  records.  It  would  permit  the  National  Archives  to  hold  and  make 
available  as  needed  information  about  the  records  holdings  of  the  Federal 
Government.  Although  currently  available  in  paper  form,  the  information  is 
not  readily  accessible  nor  can  it  be  manipulated  to  provide  managers  with 
the  information  needed  for  program  planning  purposes.  The  model  should  in¬ 
clude  information  on  the  information  collection  and  dissemination  activities 
of  each  agency  since  information  collection  becomes  a  part  of  the  records 
holdings  of  the  Government  and  dissemination  products  are  based  on  and 
become  a  part  of  records  systems. 

Based  on  the  study,  a  set  of  core  requirements  should  be  developed  for  a 
standard  records  management  information  system.  All  future  automation  of 
records  management  control  systems  would  have  to  meet  these  require¬ 
ments. 

3.  Model  information  resources  management  organization. 

Issue  statement: 

The  integration  of  information  management  activities  to  achieve  the  goal  of 
handling  information  as  a  resource  in  the  most  productive  and  cost  effective 
manner  has  not  happened. 

Action  requested: 

Recommend  a  model  information  resources  management  program. 

Background: 

The  purposes  of  the  Paperwork  Reduction  Act  are  very  clear:  minimize  the 
private  paperwork  burden  and  the  Federal  cost  of  information  handling, 
maximize  the  usefulness  of  the  information,  establish  uniform  Federal  infor¬ 
mation  policies  and  practices,  ensure  that  ADP  and  telecommunications 
technologies  are  obtained  and  used  to  maximum  effectiveness  and  efficiency, 
and  ensure  that  confidentiality  is  maintained  in  Federal  information  han¬ 
dling  systems.  To  achieve  these  goals,  the  framers  of  the  Paperwork  Reduc¬ 
tion  Act  envisioned  a  management  system  that  would  bring  together 
previously  dispersed  functions  such  as  automated  data  processing,  telecom¬ 
munications,  office  automation,  information  systems  development,  and  data 
and  records  management  under  one  management  structure  to  move  informa¬ 
tion  management  from  its  traditional  occupation  with  technology  to  a 
serious  emphasis  on  the  content  of  the  information  itself.  This  management 
structure  has  become  known  as  information  resources  management. 


26 


Recommendations  to  the  President's  Council  on  Management  Improvement 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


Discussion: 

When  the  concept  of  information  resources  management  was  conceived  and 
initially  implemented  it  was  a  bold  new  direction,  based  on  the  idea  that  in¬ 
formation  is  an  important  resource  for  government  operations  and  must  be 
managed.  Unfortunately,  the  concept  of  information  resources  management 
as  a  management  tool  has  not  been  thoroughly  tested,  largely  because  agen¬ 
cies  have  been  slow  to  fully  integrate  all  aspects  of  IRM  into  a  single  pro¬ 
gram. 

Organizational  structures,  assignment  of  responsibilities,  delegations  of 
authorities,  and  other  management  processes  that  have  been  or  should  be 
successful  in  advancing  the  integrated  management  of  information  resour¬ 
ces  should  be  identified.  A  model  program  or  successful  programs  (or  part  of 
programs)  should  be  identified  and  advocated.  A  very  selective,  high 
visibility  award  for  the  information  management  program  most  closely  ap¬ 
proximating  the  goal  of  integration,  which  is  highly  supportive  of  agency 
and  administration  goals,  should  be  considered. 

4.  Integrate  the  management  of  information  with  the  management  of 
information  technology. 


Issue  statement: 

The  focus  of  management  systems  within  the  Federal  Government  over  the 
last  several  years  has  been  the  procurement  of  technology.  The  objectives 
have  been  to  ensure  that  the  Government  acquires  technology  to  support  its 
information  handling  requirements  in  the  most  cost-effective  and  efficient 
manner.  With  the  emphasis  on  technology  acquisition,  insufficient  regard 
has  been  paid  to  the  management  of  the  information  itself.  Consequently, 
significant  information  management  processes  have  not  been  considered  in 
the  design,  development,  acquisition  and  implementation  of  information 
technology. 

Action  requested: 

Direct  an  interagency  working  group  to  incorporate  records  management 
considerations  into  the  “Model  Framework  for  Management  Control  Over 
Automated  Information  Systems,”  and  to  ensure  that  the  provisions  in  the 
model  are  known  to  and  adopted  by  agencies. 

Background: 

In  January  1988,  the  PCMI  and  the  President’s  Council  on  Integrity  and  Ef¬ 
ficiency  jointly  published  a  report  titled  “Model  Framework  for  Management 
Control  Over  Automated  Information  Systems.”  This  report  acknowledged 
that  managers  need  basic  tools  to  provide  reasonable,  documentable  as¬ 
surance  that  the  information  processed  by  automated  information  systems 
is  accurate,  complete,  timely,  and  authorized,  and  that  the  systems  are 


Recommendations  to  the  President's  Council  on  Management  Improvement 


27 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990,s 


secure  and  auditable.  According  to  the  report  “Future  audits  and  reviews  by 
OMB,  Inspectors  General,  the  GAO,  and  others  will  seek  evidence  of  com¬ 
pliance  with  these  control  requirements.”  One  of  the  control  requirements  is 
that  “records  retention  procedures  exist — each  agency  must  establish  proce¬ 
dures  as  to  retention,  archiving,  and  destruction  of  data  files.”  However,  the 
authority  for  the  requirement  is  the  Privacy  Act  which  has  a  specific  applica¬ 
tion  in  terms  of  access  and  retention  in  relationship  to  systems  containing 
personal  information.  The  Federal  Records  Act  which  applies  to  all  records 
of  the  Federal  Government  and  includes  the  requirement  to  create  and 
maintain  adequate  and  proper  documentation  is  not  cited  in  the  report  as  a 
governing  directive. 

Discussion: 

Many  automated  information  systems  in  the  Federal  Government  have  been 
designed,  procured,  and  implemented  without  addressing  some  basic 
records  management  issues.  The  length  of  time  the  information  is  needed 
and  by  whom,  the  need  for  information  outside  the  creating  or  maintaining 
agency,  and  the  ability  of  the  automated  system  to  meet  all  accountability  re¬ 
quirements  are  issues  that  are  often  overlooked.  For  example,  the  final  dis¬ 
position  of  the  information  maintained  in  the  automated  system  once  it  has 
served  the  agency’s  purposes  is  frequently  not  considered  in  the  design,  im¬ 
plementation,  and  operation  phases  of  the  information  system  life-cycle.  A 
review  of  system  development  life-cycle  management  documents  produced 
by  a  number  of  different  agencies  reveals  a  lack  of  attention  to  records 
management  concerns.  As  more  and  more  information  supporting  basic 
agency  programs  is  being  collected,  maintained,  and  disseminated  electroni¬ 
cally  the  need  to  address  these  issues  has  intensified.  The  need  to  identify 
the  length  of  time  information  must  be  maintained  in  automated  systems,  to 
dispose  of  that  which  is  no  longer  needed  and  to  preserve  that  which  has 
long-term  value,  intensifies  as  the  volume  of  information  and  the  associated 
costs  to  maintain  increases. 

Building  records  management  considerations  into  existing,  accepted  models 
for  information  systems  design  and  implementation  will  ensure  that  the 
complete  life-cycle  of  the  information,  from  creation/collection  through  final 
disposition  is  addressed.  It  will  eliminate  the  costs  to  the  Government  of 
maintaining  and  managing  information  which  is  no  longer  needed,  will  en¬ 
sure  that  information  of  long-term  value  to  the  Government  and  the  people 
its  serves  is  maintained,  and  will  simplify  access  by  providing  controls  over 
information  of  long-term  value. 


28 


Recommendations  to  the  President's  Council  on  Management  Improvement 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


Summary  of  Progress  and 
Planned  Actions 


Actions  Begun 

1.  Position  classification  standard  for  information  resources  managers. 
In  September  1989,  the  President’s  Council  on  Management  Improvement 
requested  that  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  consider  the  pos¬ 
sibility  of  establishing  a  position  classification  standard  for  information 
resources  managers.  OPM  replied  that  they  had  already  looked  at  this  ques¬ 
tion  in  conjunction  with  the  Department  of  Defense  and  the  General  Ser¬ 
vices  Administration.  Their  primary  efforts  involved  defining  the  kinds  of 
work  that  would  be  included  under  such  a  series,  what  qualifications  are  re¬ 
quired  to  do  the  work,  and  what  sources  exist  for  recruiting  qualified  ap¬ 
plicants.  Defining  these  factors  is  usually  considered  necessary  for  setting 
up  a  new  classification  series. 

OPM  did  not  feel  that  these  factors  have  been  shown  to  be  sufficiently 
definable  to  justify  setting  up  a  new  classification  standard.  They  pointed 
out  that  the  General  Administrative,  Computer  Specialist,  and  Communica¬ 
tions  Management  Series  cover  the  types  of  work  that  OPM  has  been  able  to 
identify  as  proposed  for  inclusion  in  the  new  series.  However,  recognizing 
the  importance  to  agencies  of  being  able  to  recruit  and  retain  a  high  quality 
work  force,  OPM  expressed  its  willingness  to  continue  to  look  into  this  mat¬ 
ter. 

2.  Integrating  records  management  into  the  information  systems  life 
cycle. 

In  August  1989,  the  FIRMR  Advisory  Council  considered  the  issue  of  incor¬ 
porating  records  considerations  into  the  information  systems  life  cycle  plan¬ 
ning.  As  a  result  of  that  meeting,  the  General  Services  Administration 
(GSA)  decided  to  devote  staff  time  to  developing  a  pamphlet  that  shows  the 
records  management  actions  to  be  taken  at  each  stage  in  the  development  of 
an  automated  information  system.  The  pamphlet  is  currently  in  production. 

In  February  1990,  Mary  Ann  Wallace  from  the  National  Archives  and  Wal¬ 
lace  Keene  addressed  the  Systems  Committee  of  the  President’s  Council  on 
Management  Improvement  on  the  need  to  update  the  “Model  Framework  for 
Management  Control  Over  Automated  Information  Systems”  to  include 
records  management  considerations.  The  Committee  decided  the  project 
should  be  undertaken  as  a  PCMI  initiative. 


Summary  of  Progress  and  Planned  Actions 


29 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


3.  Adding  records  management  to  OMB  circular  A-130:  The 
Management  of  Federal  Information  Resources. 

The  National  Archives  has  drafted  and  submitted  to  the  Office  of  Manage¬ 
ment  and  Budget  an  appendix  to  Circular  A-130.  OMB  is  considering  the 
best  approach  to  incorporating  this  information  in  A-130. 

4.  Automated  Records  Management  System 

Also  in  February  1990,  Mary  Ann  Wallace  addressed  the  Systems  Commit¬ 
tee  of  the  PCMI  on  the  benefits  to  be  gained  from  the  identification  of  an  ex¬ 
emplary  automated  records  management  system  and  from  recommending  a 
standard  system.  The  Systems  Committee  saw  the  wisdom  of  avoiding  the 
kind  of  multiplicity  of  systems  that  had  occurred  in  other  areas  such  as 
payroll  and  personnel  and  has  adopted  the  project  as  a  PCMI  initiative. 

5.  Evaluate  electronic  records  management 

The  National  Archives  is  currently  evaluating  electronic  records  manage¬ 
ment  in  selected  agencies  of  the  Department  of  Transportation  and  the  En¬ 
vironmental  Protection  Agency.  Reports  on  these  evaluations  will  be 
available  in  early  1991. 


Planned  Actions 

The  following  are  actions  that  the  National  Archives  and  Records  Ad¬ 
ministration  will  undertake  to  implement  the  recommendations  of  the  con¬ 
ference. 

1.  Promoting  the  incorporation  of  records  management  into  the 
automated  information  systems  development  life  cycle. 

NARA  staff  will  write  articles  on  this  subject  to  submit  to  periodicals.  In 
each  case  the  article  will  be  focused  on  the  particular  concerns  of  the 
audience  of  that  publication. 

NARA  will  develop  a  poster  that  promotes  this  concept  as  part  of  its  records 
management  poster  series. 

NARA  will  develop  several  briefings  on  the  subject  that  can  be  presented  to 
relevant  audiences.  One  briefing,  reviewing  the  records  management  con¬ 
cerns  to  be  considered  in  the  system  life  cycle,  will  be  aimed  primarily  at 
educating  records  managers.  Another  briefing  will  be  specifically  developed 
for  groups  who  are  beginning  to  plan  an  information  system  and  will  focus 
on  the  incorporation  of  archival  and  records  management  requirements. 


30 


Summary  of  Progress  and  Planned  Actions 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


NARA  will  establish  an  interagency  work  group  to  identify  and  define  the  ar¬ 
chival  and  records  management  requirements  that  must  be  addressed  in  the 
design  and  implementation  of  electronic  information  systems. 

NARA,  with  the  assistance  of  the  other  central  agencies  and  operating  agen¬ 
cies,  will  translate  archival  and  records  management  concerns  into  ap¬ 
propriate  Federal  regulations  and  guidance  on  information  resources  and/or 
records  management.  NARA  will  periodically  issue  reports  on  how  the  Na¬ 
tional  Archives  and  the  Bureau  of  Land  Management  records  management 
staff  worked  together  to  ensure  that  records  management  concerns  were  in¬ 
cluded  in  the  planning  for  the  Automated  Land  Management  Records  Sys¬ 
tem. 

NARA  will  make  available  a  model  agency  directive  about  records  manage¬ 
ment  in  the  automated  information  system  life  cycle. 

2.  Cross-training 

NARA  will  develop  a  cross-training  plan  for  familiarizing  ADP  and  records 
management  personnel  with  each  other’s  disciplines.  The  cross-training 
plan  will  include  recommended  courses,  suggested  on-the-job  training,  and 
reading  lists. 

NARA  will  develop  a  one-hour  briefing  on  records  management  for  ADP 
managers.  The  briefing  will  cover  the  basic  concepts  of  records  manage¬ 
ment,  such  as  adequacy  of  documentation,  recordkeeping  requirements,  and 
disposition. 

3.  Pamphlet  for  auditors 

NARA  will  develop  a  pamphlet  for  auditors  and  Inspectors  General  giving 
guidelines  for  adding  records  management  to  the  scope  of  their  reviews. 

4.  Electronic  records  directive 

NARA  will  identify  or  create  a  model  agency  directive  on  electronic  records 
or  the  elements  of  such  a  directive  and  make  this  available  to  other  agencies 
to  use  in  developing  their  own. 


Summary  of  Progress  and  Planned  Actions 


31 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1 990,s 


Appendix:  Conference 
Participants 


John  E.  Anderson,  National  Library  of  Medicine 

Richard  E.  Barry,  World  Bank 

Jane  A.  Benoit,  Department  of  Agriculture 

Rose  Marie  Berezowsky,  Bureau  of  Land  Management 

Jane  Bortnick,  Congressional  Research  Service 

Ronald  E.  Brewer,  Tennessee  Valley  Authority 

Tbbi  Brimsek,  Special  Libraries  Association 

Webb  Castor,  Xerox  Corporation 

Barbara  A.  Cemy,  Department  of  Energy 

John  W.  Chandler,  Department  of  Transportation 

John  Chapman,  Government  Printing  Office 

Lawrence  S.  Cohan,  General  Services  Administration 

Katherine  V.  Coram,  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration 

John  W.  Coyle,  Department  of  the  Interior 

Dan  Cragg,  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense 

Michael  J.  Curro,  General  Accounting  Office 

Mary  H.  Davis,  Forest  Service 

Richard  M.  Davis,  National  Oceanic  and  Atmospheric  Administration 
John  Dinneen,  Department  of  Labor 

Charles  M.  Dollar,  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration 
Daniel  J.  Drake,  Logistics  Management  Institute 
Constance  D.  Drew,  Department  of  the  Treasury 

Robert  E.  Dugan,  National  Commission  on  Libraries  and  Information  Science 
Frank  B.  Evans,  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration 
Michael  Farber,  Roy  F.  Weston,  Inc. 

John  J.  Franke,  Jr.,  Department  of  Agriculture 

Michael  G.  Garland,  Bureau  of  the  Census 

J.  Patrick  Heelen,  Bureau  of  the  Census 

Nadine  M.  Highland,  Department  of  Energy 

Thomas  C.  Hnatowski,  Administrative  Office  of  the  U.S.  Courts 

Wallace  O.  Keene,  National  Aeronautics  and  Space  Administration 

Elijah  Kelly,  Jr.,  Department  of  State 

Belkis  Leong-Hong,  Department  of  Defense 

Mary  Catherine  Malin,  Department  of  State 

Richard  A.  Marcus,  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration 

Cathy  McAuliffe,  Social  Security  Administration 

Francis  A.  McDonough,  General  Services  Administration 

Marilyn  McLennan,  Department  of  Commerce 

Constance  McLindon,  National  Science  Foundation 

John  H.  McMillan,  Office  of  the  Chief  of  Naval  Operations 

James  W.  Moore,  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration 

David  R.  Mullins,  General  Services  Administration 

Burt  Newlin,  Department  of  Defense 

Judith  J.  Newton,  National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology 


Appendix:  Conference  Participants 


33 


The  Management  of  Electronic  Records  in  the  1990's 


William  Porter,  Navy  Publishing  and  Printing  Office 

William  H.  Price,  Department  of  State 

Alan  Proctor,  Federal  Trade  Commission 

Linda  J.  Querec,  Public  Health  Service 

Thomas  E.  Reddin,  Food  and  Drug  Administration 

Edward  Roback,  National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology 

Jules  S.  Romagnoli,  Department  of  State 

Kenneth  F.  Rossman,  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration 

R.  Stephen  Scott,  Nuclear  Regulatory  Commission 

Harold  Segal,  Office  of  Personnel  Management 

Alan  Shelton,  Immigration  and  Naturalization  Service 

J.  Timothy  Sprehe,  Office  of  Management  and  Budget 

Kenneth  Thibodeau,  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration 

William  A.  Walker,  Department  of  the  Army 

Mary  Ann  Wallace,  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration 

John  H.  Weiner,  Department  of  Energy 

Lisa  Westerback,  Bureau  of  Economic  Analysis 

Benjamin  L.  White,  Department  of  Energy 

Don  W.  Wilson,  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration 

Richard  A.  Wire,  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration 

Fred  B.  Wood,  Office  of  Ttechnology  Assessment 

Phillip  Zellers,  National  Agricultural  Statistics  Service 

Raymond  C.  Zimmermann,  Department  of  the  Air  Force 


34 


Appendix:  Conference  Participants 


0  ^OV  * 
*  JO  .A  * 
/[feP  v  ^  V  Yy  * 
❖  o  * 
v\cr 


r  ^  . '  Mg 

*  OV  *  >i  i  H 

V  ^  Yv 
❖  -0 


O  s 


*  X 


VV 


Xs 


x*. 


v-g  XV 

>4 

^  ° 


*  x^  « 


^  ° 


YV 

X^r 


’*  .  t*  « 

:  ^b4  ° 

°  4-0*  ' 

•  X  o„  *<• 


0  ^ 

’  ->V 


❖  _o 


^  a  x  * 
*  * 


o%  ^  * 

°  \<T 


X  J'p 

*  <c?  Yy  *>' 

_  .X  JX  Y,  *,  ss  A  .  . 

■,,  /*a^  />  " 

*+&  ?41X.  •'bv*’  . 


<$  Yv. 

'A  V>v  , 


O  ^  ^  £ 

°z  ? 

-  >4  * 


^  >  * 


Xs  Yv  * 

*  <?  %.  '. 


&#  •  l»r  sV  ■  •  *  l»r i°<‘  *  *>>y 


Y * ‘  XXLXX  ' '  .XX  «,  .  ...  ~0 

X*  \*W'  $%  'W/  3*+  t»;  I°-g. 

'  XsA" 

°  “|4‘  YY*  :MPo  ^  *y>Y*  Y><£ 

*«jaa»°  °oW w*  oMw;  x^Yv  * M3# f  <&'*< 

<>  ™-3ixf  *.  •V  V1  X .•*>  <X  v0>  A%Wir  *  <V'  Y  °  M/zy^sV0  -*.  jv  *>Y  ^  AXA  ^  v  v*  °  XgXV0  >  Xy 

c  •  •  >Y  -yv:  •  v6.‘°”  *  •  s>^’  '“>°.<‘v\‘'  •  5>^*  ^^vo,">6  - 


\/®V.'* 


»^a*r  *|a«V  Y« 

u^^p.  J.ljiio  .vV^k 


^ 0  * l’  ??^xX'  “*>6.^X4  •  * 


%  a0  - 

v-o4  ® 

VX  t»g?“;;l,’'” 


X ”°%\''"1  *^V  V o^‘ ” * r/V>0',<5’ Vt’-' ” °'.\1'*"  ‘x°^ 

■  |J\^A|  p  X6  /&  y  gC.  <^v  ^ CV  y  X>  *  r\^/u  ,X*fX  x> 


v°x. 


x-'^0  ' 

.tfiffir  «>  *70 


W  v  V°X  * 


I  w  .■ 

K^/  °^ 


«P>  <?y 

* 


XX 

•»  V ,  -  ^3 

.4  <X 


; 

^  XX  ^ 


I  l 


b "  *  *  S/V  i,,%v°  *  **  o^c°kgvV  *  *  l,s/v°  °  "  •  *1^*  u^v°  •  ^40^c 

^  -1*^  i?  JStfTZ* 2%  -V  .  C;  .  *  r^SNVy.  -T  o  X»  fj  ^  r^<\».  J*  c)  X"  .♦  Of* 7^,  X  X/  Cj  .' 

\vfHk  ^  . »  O* 

K »  o-v" 

:..••  /  ■»  ,0_> 


1OT’ 1  *  ^CT 

XXX« X-  o,  * 


>*#  :®m\\&  ?w;  %* 

>  ♦ 

<A  4 


X  \a 


i0$\\<^ ;0&\  %■<?  :§&k\\Jy 

Xs %  ,|f^«  aV4  z.JM;  <X Jj*  °' W®  *  Xs ^ 

■•  /-^*  Yv  <»,  ^  ^  >  °  wW  ♦  <X  ’gK  's^J[[wk  ^  'V’  ^  ^  v  v*  x  »>  ^  ^ 

<p^>%  *  *  ^;;S^A^yo:  •  •  ^ ^ 

^b4  Yx  :^.'  Y.X  YxA  ^  s 


❖  o 

.1  ft  O,,^  JT 
^  c  c.  o  Qa  _X 


,  ?>04  * 

•4  X 


a°;  . . ,  v,*»«'«’\<t .  „;v^Yn  * . ,’  v*;"o,YY .  »>°°5 . . ;  v 

'  « s  X  '/X  ,  V  ^  f?  5,  '%  CV  Xp  X k  ❖»  <  -v  ,  V  X  c>  o,  Y  Qa  jP  X  <  . 


O  K 


O  T^s  aT  ^ 
O  ^  o 

«  XA  o 

^  y  ° 


^  '  <A  X  <r' 

*  ^  X^  01 


b*-  .  -./v« .  ‘Vco»««;v  -  *  ">\*  “*«V°  *'*V%.-..  V;  *  * ;  ix 

X  X^  *  OgtfTZu  ^  X/  ry  «■  X Y)  X®  ^  •»  nL  cH  •  Tkbcv  Y  Hd  X  -?• 


*  X 

o  X0  X  ** 

I  o 

"  x"3^  o  m  «  ^  £  X’-Y.  o  WMM :  ,4>J 

*  *'  "  ,^/V0,li/cO«c 

•*'VYoAo'»;YovX;m:tY^  • 
v°4  '«»o  ^o*_  :^P:  * «»;  xx  * 


Y  ’  -  >o:*7’  ->Y”  ^ vY?“-.' YYr  •*?<;•»  *:>Y  •  •  ^'«5>y  * 


o,  ^ 


#  X 


^  x> 


