*^       .  v  « 


.-io,*. 


•  •  •      "%;>  V     » '  *  ° 


•      %    ^^      »'^ 


'^ov*^   :]S1^'<  "'-^.-o^'  :«aia':    '^ov*^  :£lli^.\  '^^c<^ 


jPv-., 


vf'3 


,0"  • 


\"!^-,/    ^.•^■^^^o^     *o,'^^\/    %. 

*..*'  .•ANM".  %„/  .*aife*-.  **..**  .-^siic;^"-  \..^' 


v^\^..X   J>y 


r»' 


?''\.. 


-  ^^  V'^^*'^°'^  V*^'^**^/^        %'*^^''^0'5'      "^"H^'*^^**/  ^o^ 


0^  ^^^     '. 


<>v 


^'  --^..^^^  ^' 


>*  .^^ 


•^0 


,*1°^ 


"^oV^ 


.*lo^ 


oV 


rl°^ 


^^•n^. 


s*^^  /^^;r.  ^^^.  .  c°*  .**ii^^.  '°o    .^■^■*;.^^I^  "•$..    c^^^  .c:;;^.  "^^o    .-^^  .^  -  -  -  -  ^^ 


i» »       aV"^        -> ' 


'^6* 


^•1°^ 


•  . o -        .0  "^         *  »  »  1  •        . A^ 


.-lo*. 


l\^^o^'^' 


•        *r>     4  *■ 


*       «^^'\, 


\r^  I    no>in    IIIIIIH^^^^^  BUREAU  OF  MINES  ^^ 

lU       9240    IIH^  INFORMATION  CIRCULAR/1990 


i     {^/lAR  -•  8  199(J     I 


Methods  for  the  Analysis  of  Mineral 
Chromites  and  Ferrochrome  Slag 


By  D.  A.  Baker  and  J.  W.  Siple 


BUREAU  OF  MINES 
1910-1990 

JHE  MINERALS  SOURCE 


'U   OF 


Mission:  Asthe  Nation's  principal  conservation 
agency,  the  Department  of  the  Interior  has  respon- 
sibility for  most  of  our  nationally-owned  public 
lands  and  natural  and  cultural  resources.  This 
includes  fostering  wise  useof  our  land  and  water 
resources,  protecting  our  fish  and  wildlife,  pre- 
serving the  environmental  and  cultural  values  of 
our  national  parks  and  historical  places,  and  pro- 
viding for  the  enjoyment  of  life  through  outdoor 
recreation.  The  Department  assesses  our  energy 
and  mineral  resources  and  works  to  assure  that 
their  development  is  in  the  best  interests  of  all 
our  people.  The  Department  also  promotes  the 
goals  of  the  Take  Pride  in  America  campaign  by 
encouraging  stewardship  and  citizen  responsibil- 
ity for  the  public  lands  and  promoting  citizen  par- 
ticipation in  their  care.  The  Department  also  has 
a  major  responsibility  for  American  Indian  reser- 
vation communities  and  for  people  who  live  in 
Island  Territories  under  U.S.  Administration. 


Information  Circular  9240 


Methods  for  the  Analysis  of  Mineral 
Chromites  and  Ferrochrome  Slag 

By  D.  A.  Baker  and  J.  W.  Siple 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  THE  INTERIOR 

Manuel  Lujan,  Jr.,  Secretary 

BUREAU  OF  MINES 
T  S  Ary,  Director 


Library  of  Congress  Cataloging  in  Publication  Data: 


Baker,  D.  A.  (Delbert  A.) 

Methods  for  the  analysis  of  mineral  chromites  and  ferrochrome  slag  /  by  D.  A. 
Baker  and  J.  W.  Siple. 

p.    cm.  -  (Information  circular  /  Bureau  of  Mines;  9240) 

Includes  bibliographical  references. 

Supt.  of  Docs,  no.:  I  28.27:9240. 

1.  Chromium  ores-Analysis.    I.  Siple,  J.  W.    II.  Title.    III.  Series:  Information 
circular  (United.  Bureau  of  Mines);  9240 

~-4:N295.U4     [TN490.C4]      622  s-dc20  [553.4'643'0287]      89-600322 

CIP 


I 


CONTENTS 

Page 

Abstract 1 

Introduction 2 

Total  chromium  in  mineral  chromite  and  ferrochrome  slags 2 

Acid-soluble  or  "metallic"  chromium  in  ferrochrome  slags    4 

Total  iron  in  mineral  chromite  and  ferrochrome  slags    6 

Ferrous  iron  in  miner2d  chromite  and  ferrochrome  slags    8 

MetaUic  iron  in  ferrochrome  slags 9 

Aluminum  and  magnesium  in  mineral  chromite  and  ferrochrome  slags 10 

Calcium  in  mineral  chromite  and  ferrochrome  slags 11 

Gravimetric  sihca  in  mineral  chromite  and  ferrochrome  slags 12 

Manganese  in  mineral  chromite,  ferrochrome  slags,  zmd  ferrochrome 14 

Acid  digestion  of  ferrochrome  metal 17 

Method  A   17 

Method  B    17 

Discussion   18 

References 18 

Appendix  A.-Reagent  preparation    19 

Appendix  B— Use  of  zirconium  crucibles 21 

Appendix  C.-Notes  on  sample  preparation   22 


UNIT  OF  MEASURE  ABBREVIATIONS  USED  IN  THIS  REPORT 

°c 

degree  Celsius 

mL 

milliliter 

g 

gram 

N 

normal  concentration. 

h 

hour 

nm 

nanometer 

L 

liter 

pet 

percent 

meq  wt 

milliequivalent  weight 

ppm 

part  per  million 

mg 

milligram 

s 

second 

min 

minute 

METHODS  FOR  THE  ANALYSIS  OF  MINERAL 
CHROMITES  AND  FERROCHROME  SLAG 


By  D.  A.  Baker^  and  J.  W.  Siple^ 


ABSTRACT 

This  report  describes  the  elemental  characterization  of  chromite  and  related  materials  at  the  Bureau 
of  Mines,  Albany  Research  Center.  Analytical  methods  for  determining  the  major  constituents, 
representing  extensive  experience,  refinement,  and  development,  are  described  and  fully  annotated.  This 
presentation  should  allow  other  laboratories  to  use  these  methods  and  obtain  comparable  results  with 
a  minimum  of  time  needed  for  famiUarization  with  individual  methods. 


^Chemist. 

Albany  Research  Center,  Bureau  of  Mines,  Albany,  OR. 


INTRODUCTION 


A  goal  of  the  Bureau  of  Mines  is  the  maintenance  of  an 
adequate  supply  of  critical  minerals  and  metals  to  meet 
national  economic  and  strategic  needs.  As  part  of  this 
effort,  the  Bureau's  Albany  Research  Center  has  con- 
ducted research  related  to  chromium  ores  and  production. 
In  providing  analytical  support,  the  Center  has  analyzed 
many  samples  of  chromium  materials  and  has  acquired 
considerable  experience  in  the  requisite  techniques. 

Chromium  is  on  the  critical  materials  hst  because  it  is 
widely  used  in  strengthening  and  enhancing  the  corrosion 
resistance  of  ferrous  alloys  and  there  is  a  lack  of  adequate 
domestic  resources.  In  general,  the  United  States  has 
relied  on  imports  to  supply  91  pet  of  its  chromium  needs, 
depending  on  secondary  recovery  to  supply  the  remaining 
9  pet  (ly 

Research  projects  at  the  Albany  Research  Center  have 
ranged  from  the  location  and  characterization  of  domestic 
sources  of  chromite  ore,  through  smelting  ferrochrome 
ingot  operations,  to  the  recovery  of  chromium  and 
chromium-bearing  minerals  from  various  industrial  wastes. 
Reports  published  include  Bureau  of  Mines  Information 
Circular  8916,  entitled  "Podiform  Chromite  Occurrences 
in  the  Caribou  Mountain  and  Lower  Kanuti  River  Areas, 
Central  Alaska.  Part  II:  Beneficiation"  (2)  and  Bureau  of 
Mines  Report  of  Investigations  8676,  entitled  "Chromium 
Recovery  From  Nickel-Cobalt  Laterite  and  Laterite  Leach 
Residues"  (3). 

In  support  of  these  and  other  research  projects,  this 
Center  has  analyzed  a  large  number  of  samples  of 
chromite  ore,  ferrochrome,  ferrochrome  slag,  and  solids 
and  solutions  from  chromium  recovery  investigations.  The 


large  number  of  samples  processed  has  promoted  refine- 
ment of  the  analytical  methods  used,  so  that  reliability  of 
the  results  is  not  sacrificed  in  order  to  return  the  data  in 
a  timely  manner.  The  results  of  this  refinement  are 
presented  in  this  publication. 

The  purpose  of  this  report  is  to  present  the  techniques 
used  at  the  Albany  Research  Center  for  the  analysis  of 
chromite  minerals  and  ferrochrome-related  samples. 
The  methods  given  in  this  report  are  based  on  standard 
techniques  {4-13).  The  presentation  is  concise  and  offers 
supplementary  information  to  aid  the  understanding  of  less 
experienced  analysts  and  technicians.  Toward  this  goal, 
the  format  for  the  presentation  of  each  method  includes: 

1.  A  short  introductory  note  on  each  method. 

2.  Lists  of  equipment  and  materials. 

3.  A  step-by-step  listing  of  the  procedure. 

4.  Procedure  notes  that  provide  information  pertaining 
to  the  reasons  for  a  step  in  the  method  or  supplementary 
instructions  referring  to  indications  of  success,  malfunction, 
or  optional  actions  that  may  be  taken. 

The  preparation  of  reagent  solutions  is  presented  in 
appendix  A.  Appendixes  B  and  C  present  some  notes  on 
the  use  of  zirconium  crucibles  and  on  sample  preparation. 

This  format  should  allow  the  experienced  analyst  to 
take  this  report  into  the  laboratory  and  produce  results 
that  are  comparable  and  compatible  with  results  obtained 
at  this  Center,  with  a  minimum  of  delay  for  familiarization 
with  the  techniques,  and  this  format  should  accelerate  the 
understanding  of  the  less  experienced  analyst. 


TOTAL  CHROMIUM  IN  MINERAL  CHROMITE  AND  FERROCHROME  SLAGS 


The  total  chromium  content  in  mineral  chromite  and 
ferrochrome  slags  can  range  from  a  fraction  of  a  percent 
in  the  slags  to  greater  than  30  pet  in  the  ore  concentrates. 
Because  of  this  variation  and  because  of  the  difficulty  in 
dissolving  chromite-containing  samples,  the  method  of 
choice    at    this    Center    has   been    fusion   with   sodium 


peroxide,  followed  by  persulfate  oxidation  and  titration 
with  ferrous  iron. 

The  wet  method  is  sufficiently  accurate  and  reproduc- 
ible for  high-quality  results  on  a  routine  basis.  The  sam- 
ples may  be  determined  very  rapidly  without  a  sacrifice  in 
quality.  Batches  of  20  determinations  have  been  com- 
pleted in  6  h  by  one  analyst  without  assistance. 


Equipment 

Zirconium    crucible    (approximately   30-mL    capacity 
seems  most  convenient). 

Meker  or  similar  gas-air  mix  burner. 

400-mL  beaker  and  cover. 

Glass  stirring  rod. 

Hotplate. 

Rubber  policeman. 

Burette. 


Italic  numbers  in  parentheses  refer  to  items  in  the  Hst  of  references 
preceding  the  appendixes  at  the  end  of  this  ref)ort. 


Materials 

Sodium  peroxide,  reagent  grade,  granular,  20  mesh  or 
finer. 

Sulfuric  acid,  reagent  grade,  diluted  1:1  with  distilled 
water. 

Saturated  manganese  solution. 

Silver  nitrate,  reagent  grade,  2.5-pct  solution. 

Ammonium  persulfate,  reagent  grade,  crystal. 

Hydrochloric  acid,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 

Phosphoric  acid,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 

Ferrous  iron  solution,  standardized. 

Sodium  diphenylamine  sulfonate  solution. 


Procedure 


1.  Weigh  the  sample  into  a  zirconium  crucible. 

2.  Add  4  to  12  g  of  sodium  peroxide,  and  stir  imtil  the 
peroxide  and  sample  are  thoroughly  mixed. 

3.  Fuse  over  a  burner  imtil  all  sample  particles  are  dis- 
solved. Swirl  and  inspect  occasionally  to  keep  unattacked 
particles  dispersed. 

4.  When  the  fusion  is  complete,  allow  the  crucible  and 
melt  to  cool. 

5.  When  they  are  cool,  tap  gently  to  free  the  soHdified 
melt  from  the  bottom  of  the  crucible. 


11.  To  the  solution  in  the  beaker,  add  one  drop  of  a  sat- 
urated manganese  solution,  2  or  3  mL  of  a  2.5-pct  solu- 
tion of  silver  nitrate,  and  3  to  6  g  of  ammonium  persulfate. 
Stir  thoroughly. 

12.  Bring  the  solution  to  a  boil,  and  boil  for  several  min- 
utes to  decompose  the  excess  persulfate. 

13.  Remove  the  beaker  from  the  hotplate,  and  immedi- 
ately add  5  mL  concentrated  hydrochloric  acid  to  decom- 
pose the  permanganate. 

14.  Stir  and  cool  the  solution  to  room  temperature  or 
below. 


6.  Place  the  solidified  melt  and  the  emptied  crucible  in 
a  400-mL  beaker,  add  150  to  200  mL  of  cold  distilled  wa- 
ter, and  cover  quickly. 

7.  When  leaching  activity  has  subsided,  slide  the  cover 
aside  slightly  and  slowly  add  about  25  mL  of  1:1  sulfuric 
acid  solution.  Reclose  the  cover  and  wait  for  the  com- 
pletion of  any  further  leaching  action. 

8.  Remove  and  rinse  the  cover  glass,  and  rinse  down  the 
beaker  sides. 

9.  Place  a  glass  stirring  rod  in  the  beaker  and  stir  the 
contents  thoroughly. 

10.  Remove  and  thoroughly  rinse  the  crucible.    Inspect 
the  inside  of  the  crucible  and  poUce  it  if  necessary. 


15.  When  the  solution  is  cool,  add  about  10  mL  of  con- 
centrated phosphoric  acid,  and  titrate  with  a  standard  fer- 
rous iron  solution  using  two  to  five  drops  of  sodium  di- 
phenylamine  sulfonate  solution  as  the  indicator,  which 
changes  from  purple  to  green  at  the  endpoint. 

Titration  equation: 

Cr+^  +  3Fe^^-*  Cr+^  +  SFe'^l 


Calculation: 


+  2 


mL  titer  x  N  Fe      x  eq  wt  Cr 


sample  wt  x  1,000 


1  mL  O.IOOOA^  Fe 


+  2 


X  100  =  pet  total  Cr. 


1.733  mg  Cr. 


Procedure  Notes 


1.  Sample  size  is  usually  roughly  calculated  to  yield  a 
titration  of  about  20  to  50  mL  (as  a  convenience).  How- 
ever, a  minimum  of  0.2  g  is  used  when  adequate  sample  is 
available.  A  maximum  of  about  1  g  is  used  to  keep  the 
melt  volume  to  a  manageable  level. 

2.  Increase  the  sodium  peroxide  to  match  sample  size 
using  an  approximate  ratio  of  20  parts  of  peroxide  to 
1  part  of  sample.  Again,  consideration  must  be  given  to 
melt  volume  at  high  sample  weights.  Thorough  mixing 
cannot  be  overstressed.  Sample  particles  in  the  melt  can 
aggregate  and  stubbornly   resist  attack. 

3.  The  burner  should  be  capable  of  bringing  the  crucible 
to  red  heat  on  the  bottom.  Mixing  remains  important.  If 
particles  are  allowed  to  aggregate,  fusing  time  may  have  to 
be  extended,  which  increases  the  attack  on  the  crucible 
itself,  shortening  its  useful  life,  increasing  the  tendency  of 
the  cooled  melt  to  stick  to  the  crucible,  and  adding  a  sig- 
nificant concentration  of  zirconium  to  the  analyte  solution. 


4.  If  the  melt  is  to  be  leached  quickly,  the  crucible  can 
be  set  out  on  any  heat-resistant  material  to  cool.  If  the 
melt  has  to  be  set  aside  for  a  while,  it  should  be  set  on  a 
hotplate  on  low  heat  to  keep  it  from  absorbing  atmo- 
spheric water  (which  makes  the  melt  stick  to  the  crucible). 

5-6.  If  gentle  tapping  does  not  free  the  melt,  try  moder- 
ately hard  tapping.  If  the  melt  still  sticks,  lay  the  crucible 
on  its  side  in  the  bottom  of  the  beaker. 

7.  The  leaching  reaction  can  range  from  very  slow  to 
very  vigorous.  A  high  aluminum  concentration  tends  to 
slow  the  reaction.  A  slow  leach  reaction  may  become  a 
very  fast  leach  reaction  when  sulfuric  acid  is  added,  so  care 
must  be  exercised.  Once  the  leach  reaction  has  finished, 
the  addition  of  sulfuric  acid  is  generally  accompanied  by 
moderate  effervescence  unless  a  significant  amount  of  car- 
bonate is  present. 


8-10.  Rinse  down  any  visible  precipitate  particles  and 
police  out  any  residue  in  the  crucible.  Stirring  should  pro- 
duce a  clear  solution  unless  hydrolyzed  zirconium  or  alu- 
minum is  present.  Do  not  add  more  sulfuric  acid  unless 
iron  or  chromium  hydroxide  precipitate  is  present.  Excess 
sulfuric  acid  may  slow  or  prevent  the  oxidation  of 
chromium. 

11.  The  manganese  is  to  indicate  the  completion  of  the 
chromium  oxidation.  AH  of  the  chromium  will  be  oxidized 
before  the  manganese  begins  to  be  converted  to  perman- 
ganate. If  permanganate  is  the  salt  added,  it  may  not  all 
reduce  and  may  leave  a  permanganate  pink.  Proceed  re- 
gardless. The  permanganate  color  after  the  decomposition 
of  the  excess  persulfate  is  the  important  condition,  not  the 
pink  in  the  intermediate  stages.  The  silver  nitrate  is  a 
catalyst  in  the  oxidation  reaction.  Crystalline  ammonium 
persulfate  is  used  to  save  the  time  and  labor  of  preparing 
fresh  solution. 

12.  When  the  oxidation  is  complete  and  the  manganese 
turns  red,  it  turns  quickly,  in  1  or  2  s.  As  the  excess  per- 
sulfate is  destroyed,  a  mild  effervescence  can  be  seen  in 
the  solution.  If  the  solution  does  not  turn  red  after  boiling 
for  a  few  minutes,  remove  it  from  the  hotplate  and  inspect 
it  for  precipitate  that  looks  Hke  silver  chloride.   If  found, 


add  more  silver  nitrate  and  cimmonium  persulfate,  and  re- 
turn the  solution  to  the  hotplate.  If  no  such  precipitate  is 
found,  just  add  more  ammonium  persulfate,  and  return  the 
solution  to  the  hotplate.  Repeat  the  operations  as 
necessary.  Lost  water  may  be  replaced  without  any  hazard 
to  results. 

13.  The  chloride  in  the  hydrochloric  acid  will  be  oxidized 
to  chlorine  gas  in  the  process  of  reducing  the  permanga- 
nate. It  will  also  precipitate  the  silver.  The  chloride  will 
not  react  with  the  dichromate  produced. 

14.  Be  aware  that  a  small  amount  of  chlorine  gas  is 
evolved  during  cooling. 

15.  The  phosphoric  acid  is  added  to  complex  the  ferric 
iron.  If  significant  amounts  of  aluminum  or  titanium  are 
present,  hydrofluoric  acid  may  be  substituted  for  the  phos- 
phoric acid.  The  ferrous  iron  solution  is  prepared  from 
ferrous  ammonium  sulfate  in  12-L  batches.  A  piece  of 
purified  aluminum  sheet  kept  in  the  carboy  helps  to  keep 
the  normality  of  the  solution  constant.  Sodium  diphenyl- 
amine  sulfonate  is  used  because  it  is  easily  soluble  in  dis- 
tilled water  and  thus  preparation  is  simplified.  Any  of  the 
diphenylamine  indicators  will  work,  giving  a  sharp  endpoint 
by  changing  from  purple  to  green. 


ACID-SOLUBLE  OR  "METALLIC"  CHROMIUM  IN  FERROCHROME  SLAGS 


At  this  Center,  results  from  this  method  have  been  used 
almost  exclusively  as  data  for  the  calculation  of  the  total 
degree  of  reduction  in  a  smelter  batch,  rather  than  as  an 
indicator  for  the  metallization  of  chromium.  When  a 
charge  of  chromite  material  is  smelted  or  prereduced,  the 
crystal  structure  is  changed,  and  once  the  chromite  spinel 
structure  has  been  opened,  the  chromium  becomes  much 
more  available  to  acid  attack.  Partially  reduced  chromium 

Equipment 

250-mL  beaker. 
400-mL  beaker. 
Stirring  rod. 
Hotplate. 
Filter  paper. 
Funnel. 
Burette. 


species  and  chromium  in  the  form  of  silicates,  carbonates, 
or  other  carbon  compounds,  as  well  as  chromium  metal, 
are  then  available  to  acid  attack.  (These  species  of  chro- 
mium are  often  grouped  under  the  name  "metallic"  chro- 
mium.) (It  has  been  noted  that  a  very  finely  ground  sam- 
ple of  a  mineral  chromite  concentrate  will  generally  give 
up  a  few  relative  percent  of  its  chromium  to  this  method.) 


Materials 

Sulfuric  acid,  reagent  grade,  diluted  1:1  with  distilled 
water. 

Hydrofluoric  acid,  46  to  51  pet,  reagent  grade. 
Saturated  manganese  solution. 
Silver  nitrate  solution. 

Ammonium  persulfate,  reagent  grade,  crystal. 
Hydrochloric  acid,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 
Phosphoric  acid,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 
Ferrous  iron  solution,  standardized. 
Sodium  diphenylamine  sulfonate  solution. 


Procedure 


1.  Weigh  the  sample  into  a  250-mL  beaker. 

2.  Add  80  to  90  mL  of  distilled  water,  10  mL  of  1:1  sul- 
furic acid,  and  5  to  10  mL  of  hydrofluoric  acid. 

3.  Place  the  beaker  on  a  hotplate  and  bring  to  a  gentle 
boil  or  just  below. 

4.  Digest  at  a  gentle  boU,  or  just  below,  for  40  to 
50  min,  replacing  lost  water  whenever  the  digestion 
approaches  half  the  original  volume. 

5.  Remove  the  solution  from  the  hotplate,  cool  to  about 
room  temperature,  and  filter  through  a  medium-speed 
qualitative  paper  (such  as  Schleicher  and  Schuel"*  (S&S) 
597)  into  a  400-mL  beaker.  Wash  5  to  10  times  with  dis- 
tilled water. 

6.  Dilute  the  combined  filtrate  and  washes  up  to  200  to 
250  mL  total  volume. 

7.  Add  one  drop  of  saturated  manganese  solution,  2  or 
3  mL  of  2.5-pct  silver  nitrate  solution,  and  3  to  6  g  of 
ammonium  persulfate,  rinse  sides,  and  stir  thoroughly. 

8.  Bring  the  solution  to  a  boil,  and  boil  several  minutes 
to  destroy  the  excess  persulfate. 


9.  Remove  the  beaker  from  the  hotplate,  and  imme- 
diately add  3  to  5  mL  of  concentrated  hydrochloric  acid  to 
decompose  the  permanganate. 

10.  Stir  thoroughly,  rinse  sides,  and  cool  to  room  tem- 
perature or  below. 

11.  When  the  solution  is  cool,  add  about  10  mL  of  con- 
centrated phosphoric  acid  emd  titrate  with  a  standard  fer- 
rous iron  solution  using  three  to  five  drops  of  sodium  di- 
phenylamine  sulfonate  solution  as  the  indicator,  which 
changes  from  purple  to  green  at  the  endpoint. 

Titration  equation: 

Cr  +  ^  +  3Fe  +  2  ->  Cr"^^  +  3Fe  +  l 


Calculation: 


+  2 


mL  titer  x  A^  Fe      x  eq  wt  Cr 


X  100 


sample  wt  x  1,000 
pet  acid-soluble  Cr. 

1  mL  O.IOOOA^  Fe^^  =  1.733  mg  Cr. 


Procedure  Notes 


1.  Sample  size  is  usually  roughly  calculated  to  yield  a 
convenient  titration.  Sample  sizes  from  a  few  hundred 
milligrams  for  prer educed  smelter  charges  up  to  several 
grams  for  slag  are  easily  handled,  though  large  samples  of 
finely  ground  material  sometimes  have  a  tendency  to 
bump. 

2.  The  described  acid  mixture  is  proper  for  all  normal 
determinations.  Another  small  volume  of  hydrofluoric  acid 
may  be  added  if  high  silica  or  metal  passivation  is  sus- 
pected. Do  not  add  more  sulfuric  acid.  A  high  sulfuric 
acid  concentration  can  slow  or  prevent  the  oxidation  of 
chromium  from  Cr*^  to  Cr^*. 

3-4.  Gentle  digestion  is  preferred  over  vigorous  boiling 
because  it  requires  much  less  attention  and  entails  less 
danger  of  passivating  any  metallics  present. 

5.  Very  fine  gangue  particles  will  sometimes  pass 
through  ("slime"  through)  the  paper,  but  they  do  no  harm 
in  the  oxidation  or  titration  steps,  other  than  making  the 
solution  cloudy. 


4 

Reference  to  specific  products  does  not  imply  endorsement  by 
the  Bureau  of  Mines. 


6.  Aim  at  150  to  200  mL  solution  volume  at  the  start  of 
the  titration. 

7.  Saturated  manganese  solution  is  to  indicate  the 
completion  of  the  chromium  oxidation.  All  of  the  chro- 
mium will  be  oxidized  before  the  manganese  is  converted 
to  permanganate.  The  silver  nitrate  is  a  catalyst  in  the 
chromium  oxidation.  Crystalline  ammonium  persulfate  is 
used  to  save  the  time  and  labor  of  preparing  fresh 
solution. 

8.  When  the  oxidation  is  complete  and  the  manganese 
turns  red,  it  turns  quickly.  As  the  excess  persulfate  is  de- 
stroyed, a  mild  effervescence  can  be  seen  in  the  solution. 
If  the  solution  does  not  turn  red  after  boiling  for  a  few 
minutes,  remove  it  from  the  hotplate  and  inspect  it  for 
precipitate  that  looks  like  silver  chloride.  If  found,  add 
more  silver  nitrate  and  ammonium  persulfate,  and  return 
the  solution  to  the  hotplate.  If  no  such  precipitate  is 
found,  just  add  more  persulfate  and  return  the  solution  to 
the  hotplate.  Repeat  these  operations  as  necessary.  Lost 
water  may  be  replaced  without  any  hazard  to  results. 

9.  The  chloride  in  the  hydrochloric  acid  will  be  oxidized 
to  chlorine  gas  in  the  process  of  reducing  the 
permanganate.  It  will  also  precipitate  the  silver.  The 
chloride  will  not  react  with  the  dichromate. 


10.  Be  aware  that  a  small  amount  of  chlorine  gas  is 
evolved  during  cooling. 

11.  The  phosphoric  acid  is  used  as  a  complexing  agent  for 
the  ferric  iron  present.  If  significant  amounts  of  titanium 
or  aluminum  are  present,  hydrofluoric  acid  may  be 
substituted  for  the  phosphoric  acid.  The  ferrous  iron 
solution  is  prepared  from  ferrous  ammonium  sulfate  in 


12-L  batches.  A  piece  of  purified  aluminum  sheet  kept  in 
the  carboy  helps  to  maintain  constant  normality  of  the 
solution.  Sodium  diphenylamine  sulfonate  is  used  because 
it  is  easily  soluble  in  distilled  water  and  thus  preparation 
is  simplified.  Any  of  the  diphenylamine  indicators  will 
work,  giving  a  sharp  endpoint  by  changing  from  purple 
to  green. 


TOTAL  IRON  IN  MINERAL  CHROMITE  AND  FERROCHROME  SLAGS 


Iron  is  the  second  major  element  in  chromite.  In  smelt- 
ing operations  where  ferrochrome  is  the  product,  a  specific 
range  in  the  chromium-to-iron  ratio  is  desired.  Where 
pure  metalUc  chromium  is  the  product,  the  iron  concen- 
tration is  not  as  important.  In  both  cases,  it  is  important 
to  have  a  good  value  for  the  chromium-to-iron  ratio.  A 
typical  chromite  or  chromite  concentrate  can  range  from 
less  than  10  pet  iron  to  over  20  pet  iron. 

Equipment 

Zirconium  crucible  (approximately  30-mL  capacity). 

Meker  or  similar  gas-air  mix  burner. 

400-mL  beaker  and  cover. 

Glass  stirring  rod. 

500-mL  Erlenmeyer  flask. 

Hotplate. 

Funnel. 

Filter  paper. 

Burette. 


To  cope  with  this  variability  and  with  the  difficulty  in 
attacking  chromite  samples,  the  method  of  choice  at  this 
Center  is  titration  after  alkaline  fusion.  This  method  is 
also  used  on  ferrochrome  slags,  even  though  they  may  oc- 
casionally contain  less  than  1  pet  iron. 

While  this  method  is  not  as  fast  as  the  total  chromium 
method,  rapid  and  reliable  results  are  easily  obtained. 


Materials 

Sodium  peroxide,  reagent  grade,  granular,  20  mesh  or 
fmer. 

Hydrochloric  acid,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 

Aqueous  ammonia,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 

Hydrochloric  acid,  reagent  grade,  diluted  1:1  with 
distilled  water. 

Stannous  chloride,  reagent  grade,  10-pct  solution  in  20- 
pct  hydrochloric  acid. 

Saturated  mercuric  chloride  solution. 

Phosphoric  acid,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 

Sodium  diphenylamine  sulfonate  solution. 

Potassium  dichromate,  reagent  grade,  0.1/V  solution  in 
distilled  water. 


Procedure 


1.  Weigh  the  sample  into  a  zirconium  crucible. 

2.  Add  4  to  12  g  of  sodium  peroxide,  and  stir  untU  the 
peroxide  and  sample  are  thoroughly  mixed. 

3.  Fuse  over  a  gas  and  air  burner  imtil  all  sample  par- 
ticles are  dissolved.  Swirl  and  inspect  occasionally  to  keep 
unattacked  particles  dispersed. 

4.  When  the  fusion  is  complete,  allow  the  crucible  and 
melt  to  cool. 

5.  When  they  are  cool,  tap  gently  to  free  the  solidified 
melt  from   the  bottom  of  the  crucible. 

6.  Place  the  solidified  melt  and  the  emptied  crucible  in 
a  400-mL  beaker,  add  150  to  200  mL  of  cold  distilled  wa- 
ter, and  cover  quickly. 


7.  When  leaching  activity  has  subsided,  remove  and  rinse 
the  cover  and  wash  down  the  beaker  sides. 

8.  Slowly,  with  stirring,  add  concentrated  hydrochloric 
acid  until  all  the  precipitated  iron  dissolves. 

9.  Remove  and  thoroughly  rinse  the  crucible,  and  police 
it  if  necessary. 

10.  Slowly,  with  stirring,  add  concentrated  aqueous  am- 
monia until  a  permanent  iron  precipitate  is  obtained;  then 
add  20  to  25  mL  excess. 

11.  Bring  the  solution  to  a  boil,  and  boil  for  a  few  min- 
utes to  destroy  any  remaining  peroxide  and  produce  a 
more  easily  filterable  precipitate. 


12.  Remove  the  beaker  from  the  hotplate,  and  rinse  the 

sides. 

13.  Filter  the  solution  through  a  fast-speed,  quahtative 
paper  (such  as  S&S  595).  Wash  the  beaker  once  and  wash 
the  precipitate  three  to  five  times  with  distilled  water,  and 
discard  the  filtrate  and  washes. 

14.  Wash  the  precipitate  back  into  its  original  beaker  with 
distilled  water. 

15.  Wash  the  filter  paper  free  of  iron  with  alternating 
rinses  of  hot  1:1  hydrochloric  acid  and  distilled  water. 
Make  sure  any  precipitate  particles  stuck  on  the  beaker 
sides  cire  redissolved. 

16.  Add  20  to  25  mL  of  concentrated  hydrochloric  acid, 
stir  until  all  the  precipitate  dissolves,  and  transfer  the  so- 
lution to  a  500-mL  Erlenmeyer  flask. 

17.  Set  the  flask  on  a  hotplate  and  bring  it  to  a  boil. 
Reduce  the  iron  with  dropwise  additions  of  10-pct  stan- 
nous chloride  solution  with  agitation  until  the  solution  is 


colorless,  or  light  green  if  Cr^^  is  present.   Add  three  to 
five  drops  excess,  and  bring  to  a  boil  again. 

18.  Cool  the  solution  to  room  temperature  or  below. 

19.  When  the  solution  is  cool,  add  10  mL  of  a  saturated 
mercuric  chloride  solution,  and  mix.  Immediately  add  7  to 
10  mL  of  concentrated  phosphoric  acid  and  three  to  five 
drops  of  sodium  diphenylamine  sulfonate  indicator,  and 
titrate  with  standard  potassium  dichromate  solution  to  the 
first  permanent  purple. 

Titration  equation: 

3Fe^^  +  Cr"^^  -*  3Fe^^  +  Cr"^l 
Calculation: 

mL  titer  x  A'^  K2Cr207  x  eq  wt  Fe 


sample  wt  x  1,000 
pet  total  Fe. 


X  100 


+  6 


1  mL  O.lOOOyV  Cr^°  =  5.585  mg  Fe. 


Procedure  Notes 


1.  Sample  size  is  usually  approximated  to  yield  a  10-  to 
30-mL  titration.  However,  a  minimum  of  about  0.2  g  is 
used  when  adequate  sample  is  available.  A  maximum  of 
about  1  g  is  used  to  keep  the  melt  volume  to  a  manageable 
level. 

2.  An  approximate  ratio  of  20  pairts  of  peroxide  to  1  part 
of  sample  is  used.  At  high  sample  weights,  resulting  melt 
volume  must  be  considered,  however.  The  flux  and  sample 
must  be  thoroughly  mixed,  or  the  sample  particles  may 
aggregate  and  stubbornly  resist  attack. 

3.  The  burner  should  be  capable  of  bringing  the  entire 
crucible  bottom  to  red  heat.  Careful  agitation  must  be 
done  to  keep  the  particles  from  aggregating.  Extended 
fusion  time  increases  the  attack  on  the  crucible  itself  and 
adds  a  significant  concentration  of  zirconium  to  the  analyte 
solution.  It  also  tends  to  make  the  cooled  melt  stick  to 
the  crucible. 

4.  If  the  melt  is  to  be  leached  quickly,  the  crucible  can 
be  set  out  on  any  heat-resistant  material  to  cool.  If  the 
melt  has  to  be  set  aside  for  a  while,  it  should  be  set  on  a 
hotplate  at  low  heat  to  keep  it  from  absorbing  atmospheric 
water. 

5-6.  If  gently  tapping  does  not  free  the  melt,  try  mod- 
erately hard  tapping.If  the  melt  still  sticks,  lay  the  crucible 
on  its  side  on  the  bottom  of  the  beaker. 

7-8.  The  leaching  reaction  can  range  from  very  slow 
to  very  vigorous.    A  high  iron  concentration  speeds  the 


reaction.  A  high  aluminum  concentration  tends  to  slow 
the  reaction.  A  slow  leach  may  become  a  very  fast  leach 
when  acid  is  added.  Once  the  leach  is  finished,  the  addi- 
tion of  acid  is  generally  accompanied  by  mild  effervescence 
unless  there  is  a  considerable  amount  of  carbonate  present 
to  evolve  carbon  dioxide. 

10.  An  cmimonia  precipitation  is  done  to  free  the  iron  of 
the  large  amount  of  sodium  in  the  solution  and  to  produce 
larger  precipitate  particles.  A  high  sodium  concentration 
has  been  found  to  depress  the  indicator  change  in  the  ti- 
tration. It  has  also  been  found  that  with  a  sodium  hydrox- 
ide precipitation,  a  very  fine-grained  iron  precipitate  is 
produced.  The  coarser  precipitate  produced  by  the  am- 
monia is  easily  filtered.  A  small  excess  of  sodium  peroxide 
added  to  the  ammonia  precipitation  after  step  10  will  allow 
the  precipitate  to  be  freed  of  nearly  all  of  the  chromium 
present.  Sodium  peroxide  is  added  1  or  2  g  at  a  time  until 
a  moderate  effervescence  is  produced  by  gentle  stirring 
and  the  beaker  contents  take  on  a  deeper  brown  color. 
Chromium,  usually  present  as  hydrated  chromic  oxide 
(CrjOj)  is  oxidized  to  Cr*^  by  the  sodium  peroxide  and 
remains  in  the  filtrate.  This  operation  can  be  used  to 
measure  iron  and  chromium  on  the  same  sample  but  usu- 
ally needs  to  be  repeated  to  remove  all  visible  traces  of 
chromium  from  the  iron  solution.  If  chromium  is  to  be 
determined,  the  filtrate  is  acidified  with  1:1  sulfuric  acid 
and  titrated  as  for  total  chromium.  Results  are  slightly 
low,  and  the  method  is  not  recommended  unless  insuffi- 
cient sample  is  available  for  a  separate  determination. 


11-12.  Bubbles  from  peroxide  decomposition  cause  me- 
chanical problems  in  the  filtration,  often  slowing  it 
unnecessarily. 

13.  It  has  been  found  convenient,  after  rinsing  the  beziker, 
to  wash  the  sides  once  with  hot  1:1  hydrochloric  acid  from 
a  wash  bottle. 

15.  A  glass  wash  bottle  with  insulation  for  holding  is  used 
to  contain  the  1:1  hydrochloric  acid  for  washing. 

16.  The  Erlenmeyer  flask  is  a  matter  of  preference;  the 
titration  may  be  done  just  as  well  in  the  beaker.  If  a 
beaker  is  used,  it  should  be  covered  during  cooling. 

17.  The  stannous  chloride  reduces  the  Fe^^  to  the  Fe^^ 
form  necessary  for  the  titration.  Interfering  elements  that 
are  reducible  by  stannous  chloride  are  rare  in  chromite 


mineral  samples  and  ferrochrome  slags.  The  excess 
staimous  chloride  protects  the  Fe^^  from  air  oxidation 
while  cooling. 

19.  Saturated  mercuric  chloride  solution  is  added  in 
excess  to  destroy  the  excess  stannous  ion;  it  does  not 
otherwise  participate  in  the  titration  reaction.  Phosphoric 
acid  is  added  as  a  complexing  agent  for  Fe^^.  If  much 
titanium  or  zirconium  is  present  in  the  solution,  a  gellike 
precipitate  may  form  when  the  phosphoric  acid  is  added. 
This  interferes  with  mixing  efficiency  and  requires  a  slower 
cmd  more  careful  titration.  It  does  not  interfere  chem- 
ically. Hydrofluoric  acid  may  be  substituted  for  the  phos- 
phoric acid  or  added,  in  small  amounts,  in  addition  to  the 
phosphoric  acid  to  avoid  this  condition.  The  indicator  is 
at  first  colorless,  turns  green  as  the  endpoint  is  approached 
(very  heird  to  see  when  much  Cr*^  is  also  present),  and 
sharply  turns  to  purple  at  the  endpoint. 


FERROUS  IRON  IN  MINERAL  CHROMITE  AND  FERROCHROME  SLAGS 


The  determination  of  ferrous  iron  in  mineral  chromites 
and  other  chromite-bearing  samples  is  limited  by  the 
difficult  solubility  of  the  chromite  lattice.  Reaction  of  the 
ferrous  iron  immediately  upon  release  from  the  crystal 
seems  to  be  the  preferred  way  of  measurement.  Attempts 
to  dissolve  chromite  by  other  methods  depend  on  strong 
oxidizing  agents  that  leave  no  ferrous  iron  to  be  mea- 
sured. The  V^''-V*^  system  is  stable  enough  to  yield  good 
results  when  it  is  used  to  react  with  released  ferrous  iron. 

The  situation  is  complicated,  however,  by  the  lack 
of  any  standard  materials  with  a  certified  ferrous  iron 
value.  National  Bureau  of  Standards  (NBS)  103a  chrome 

Equipment 

150-mL  beaker  and  cover  glass. 

600-mL  beaker. 

Stirring  rod. 

Hotplate. 

Pipette  (50-mL  capacity). 

Burette. 


refractory,  for  example,  Usts  an  FeO  value  that  is  total  iron 
expressed  as  ferrous  oxide.  While  this  value  should  be 
fairly  close,  several  relative  percent  of  the  ferrous  iron  are 
oxidized  by  atmospheric  oxygen  in  grinding  and  storage. 

With  the  limitations  in  mind,  researchers  at  this  Center 
have  used  results  from  this  method  as  data  for  the  calcu- 
lation of  smelter  charges  and  of  total  reduction  in  a 
smelter  run. 

The  method  requires  an  overnight  digestion,  but  is 
otherwise  simple  and  rapid.  Reproducibility  has  been  usu- 
cdly  within  2  relative  percent. 


Materials 

Vanadium-acid  mixture. 

O.l/V  Fe^^  standard  solution. 

Sodium  diphenylamine  sulfonate  solution. 


Procedure 


1.  Weigh  a  sample  to  contain  1.5  meq  vA  Fe*^  or  less 
into  a  150-mL  beaker. 

2.  Add  just  enough  distilled  water  to  wet  and  disperse 
the  sample. 

3.  Pipette  50  mL  of  the  vanadium-acid  mix  onto  the 
sample  while  swirling  the  beaker  to  maintain  dispersion. 
Pipette  a  blank  for  digestion  with  each  batch  of  samples. 

4.  Cover  and  digest  overnight  on  a  hotplate  at  about 
100°  c. 


5.  Remove  from  the  hotplate  and  cool  to  room  tem- 
perature or  below. 

6.  When  the  solution  is  cool,  slowly  pour  it  into  a 
600-mL  beaker  containing  150  to  200  mL  of  water,  while 
stirring.  Thoroughly  rinse  the  small  beaker  into  the  large 
beaker,  and  dilute  the  solution  to  about  500  mL  total 
volume. 

7.  Titrate  with  standard  Fe^^  solution  using  three  to  five 
drops  of  sodium  diphenylamine  sulfonate  indicator,  which 
changes  from  purple  to  green  at  the  endpoint. 


Titration  equation: 


V+5  +  Fe^2 


V+4  +  Ft^\ 


Calculation: 

(mL  blank  titer  -  mL  sample  titer)  x  N  Fe 


If  metallic  iron  is  present,  it  must  be  corrected  for  by 
subtracting  three  times  the  amount  of  iron  present  (in 
milliequivalents)  from  the  milliequivalents  of  V^^  con- 
sumed, as  in  the  following  equation: 


.  +  2 


.  +  2 


=  meq  Fe      in  sample. 


.  +  2 


(mL  blank  titer  -  mL  sample  titer)  x  N  Fe 

-  3(meq  Fe°)  =  meq  Fe"*"  . 
The  result  is  then  used  in  the  second  equation  above. 


meq  Fe      x  meq  wt  Fe  ,  , 

— T-^ X  100  =  pet  Fe^  . 

sample  wt 


Procedure  Notes 


1.  Complete  solution  is  more  reliably  obtcdned  when  the 
sample  is  limited  to  0.5  g  or  less.  Fine  grinding  is  essen- 
tial to  the  method,  and  all  samples  should  be  groimd  to 
100  mesh  or  finer. 

2-3.  It  is  necessary  to  give  some  attention  to  m containing 
the  sample  dispersion.  The  samples  have  a  tendency  to 
form  lumps  when  the  acid  is  added,  and  this  negates  the 
beneficial  effects  of  fine  grinding.  Lumps  of  seunple  stub- 
bornly resist  attack. 


4.  The  acid  mix  wiU  slowly  attack  glass.  Thin  or  etched 
beakers  should  be  avoided. 

5-6.  Take  care,  this  is  a  very  strong  acid  solution. 

7.  If  metalhc  iron  is  present  it  will  consume  3  meq  of 
V^^  solution  for  each  milUequivalent  of  iron  present.  A 
separate  metallic  iron  analysis  is  done,  and  the  results  are 
used  to  correct  the  Fe*^  results. 


METALLIC  IRON  IN  FERROCHROME  SLAGS 


It  would  truly  be  unusual  to  find  a  sample  of  mineral 
chromite  with  metallic  iron  in  it.  However,  this  Center  has 
handled  many  samples  of  prereduced  smelter  charges  with 
several  percent  of  metallic  iron  and  ferrochrome  slags  with 
measurable  quantities  of  metallic  iron.  Therefore,  this 
method  finds  its  use  in  the  later  stages  of  mineral  chromite 
processing. 

Equipment 

100-mL  volumetric  flask  with  screw  cap. 

250-mL  Erlenmeyer  flask. 

150-mL  beaker. 

Hotplate. 

Funnel. 

Filter  paper. 

Pipette  (50-mL  capacity). 

Burette. 


Results  from  this  method  have  been  used  to  calculate 
total  reduction  in  smelter  runs,  the  efficiency  of  the  parti- 
tion of  metallics  and  slag  materials,  and  the  final  smelter 
charge. 

The  method  is  rapid  and  reliable  and  yields  high-quality 
results  on  a  routine  basis.  Reproducibility  has  typically 
been  well  within  1  relative  percent. 

Materials 

Mercuric  chloride,  reagent  grade,  crystals. 
Hydrochloric  acid,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 
Phosphoric  acid,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 
Sodium  diphenylamine  sulfonate  solution. 
0.1/V  potassium  dichromate  solution,  standardized. 


Procedure 


1.  Weigh  the  sample  into  a  100-mL  volumetric  flask. 


4.  Bring  the  solution  to  a  boil,  and  boil  gently  for  1  min. 


2.  Using  nonmetaUic  tools,  add  8  to  10  g  of  mercuric  5.  Remove  the  flask  from  the  heat,  and  immediately 

chloride.  screw  the  cap  on  snugly. 


3.  Immediately  add  40  to  50  mL  of  distilled  water,  and 
swirl  the  flask  vigorously  to  mix  the  contents. 


6.  Cool  the  solution  to  room  temperature  or  below. 


10 


7.  When  the  solution  is  cool,  dilute  to  the  mark  with 
distilled  water,  reseal  the  flask,  and  mix  the  contents  of 
the  flask  thoroughly. 

8.  Filter  into  a  dry  beaker  using  a  dry  funnel  and  a  dry, 
medium-speed  qualitative  paper  (such  as  S&S  597). 

9  Pipette  50  mL  of  filtrate  into  a  250-mL  Erlenmeyer 
flask. 


Titration  equation: 


3Fe^^  +  Cr+^ 


3Fe  +  ^  +  Cr'^l 


Calculation: 

mL  titer  x  A^  Cr"^^  x  eq  wt  Fe  x  2 


10.  Add  5  to  10  mL  of  concentrated  hydrochloric  acid, 
5  to  10  mL  of  concentrated  phosphoric  acid,  and  three  to 
five  drops  of  sodium  diphenylamine  sulfonate  indicator. 
Titrate  with  O.IN  potassium  dichromate  solution  to  a 
purple  endpoint. 

Procedure  Notes 


sample  wt  x  1,000 
=  pet  metaUic  Fe. 


xlOO 


1  mL  O.IOOOA^  K2Cr207 


5.585  mg  Fe. 


1.  A  maximum  sample  size  of  about  2  g  is  used  to  min- 
imize the  error  caused  by  soUd  material  in  the  volumetric 
flask. 

2.  Metallic  spatulas  show  definite  signs  of  attack  after 
contact  with  mercuric  chloride;  therefore,  all  handling 
should  be  done  with  glass,  plastics,  or  porcelain  utensils, 
and  thorough  caution  should  be  used.  The  final  solution 
after  boiling  should  be  saturated  with  mercuric  chloride 
with  a  few  excess  crystals  in  evidence. 

3-6.  The  mercuric  chloride  begins  attack  upon  contact 
with  any  metal.  The  attacked  metal  then  becomes  much 
more  subject  to  air  oxidation,  so  delays  should  be  mini- 
mized until  the  solution  is  boiled  and  tightly  stoppered. 


Chromium  may  be  taken  into  solution  aJso,  but  it  does  not 
interfere  except  by  imparting  a  green  color  to  the  solution. 

7.  Shake  the  flask  until  any  materials  caked  on  the  bot- 
tom cu-e  thoroughly  dispersed.  At  this  point,  the  flask  may 
be  left  for  up  to  24  h  before  continuing. 

8-9.  In  summcuy,  take  a  "dry  ahquot"  of  50  mL  into  a 
250-mL  Erlenmeyer  flask.  Fine  materials  sometimes  slime 
through  the  filter  paper.  They  may  be  ignored  unless  the 
filtrate  becomes  too  murky  to  see  the  endpoint. 

10.  The  hydrochloric  acid  provides  the  proper  acid  me- 
dium for  the  titration.  The  phosphoric  acid  complexes 
with  ferric  iron.  The  endpoint  sharply  turns  to  purple. 
The  titrations  should  be  carried  out  promptly. 


ALUMINIUM  AND  MAGNESIUM  IN  MINERAL  CHROMITE  AND  FERROCHROME  SLAGS 


Aluminum  and  magnesium  occur  as  gangue  components 
in  chromite  ores  and  ferrochrome  slags.  At  this  Center, 
ores  from  many  different  sites  and  of  many  varieties  aie 
examined  for  commercial  feasibility.  The  beneficiation  of 
these  ores  is  a  continuing  activity  that  produces  most  of 
the  samples  that  are  analyzed  with  this  method.  Data 
from  this  method  are  used  in  economic  feasibility  studies, 


Equipment 

Zirconium  crucible  (approximately  30-mL  capacity). 

Meker  or  similau'  gas-air  mix  burner. 

250-mL  beaker 

Watchglass  to  fit  250-mL  beaker. 

Stirring  rod. 

100-mL  volumetric  flask. 

Assorted  volumetric  flasks. 

Hotplate. 

Rubber  policeman. 

Assorted  pipettes. 

AA  spectrophotometer. 


to  decide  the  best  beneficiation  methods  for  different  ore 
types,  and  to  cadculate  the  smelter  charge. 

The  method  of  choice  at  this  Center  is  fusion  with  a 
minimum  of  sodium  peroxide,  solution  with  hydrochloric 
acid,  and  dilution  to  a  proper  range  for  determination  by 
atomic  absorption  (AA)  spectroscopy.  This  technique  is 
rapid  and  accurate  enough  to  handle  a  considerable 
sample  load  without  sacrificing  reliability. 

Materials 

Sodium  peroxide,  reagent  grade,  granular,  20  mesh  or 
finer. 

Hydrochloric  acid,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 
Appropriate  AA  standards. 


11 


Procedure 


1.  Weigh  0.2  g  of  sample  into  a  zirconium  crucible. 

2.  Add  3  to  4  g  of  sodium  peroxide,  and  mix  thoroughly. 

3.  Fuse  over  a  burner  imtil  all  sample  particles  are 
dissolved.  Swirl  and  inspect  occasionally  to  keep  unat- 
tacked  particles  dispersed. 

4.  When  the  fusion  is  complete,  allow  the  crucible  and 
melt  to  cool. 

5.  When  they  are  cool,  tap  the  crucible  to  dislodge  the 
melt  and  place  the  melt  in  the  250-mL  beaker. 

6.  Add  10  to  20  mL  of  distilled  water  to  the  beaker,  and 
cover  quickly  with  the  watchglass. 

7.  Add  about  5  mL  of  distilled  water  and  3  to  5  mL  of 
concentrated  hydrochloric  acid  to  the  crucible. 

8.  When  the  leaching  action  has  subsided  in  the  beaker, 
uncover  and  rinse  the  cover  and  sides  with  a  minimum  of 
distilled  water. 


9.  Police  the  crucible,  and  pour  the  solution  slowly  into 
the  beaker.   Rinse  the  crucible  carefully. 

10.  Slowly,  with  stirring,  acidify  the  leach  in  the  beaker 
with  concentrated  hydrochloric  acid;  then  add  approxi- 
mately 5  mL  excess. 

11.  Place  the  beaker  on  a  hotplate  at  low  to  medium  heat 
for  15  to  30  min  to  clarify  the  solution. 

12.  Remove  the  beaker  from  the  hotplate,  cool,  and 
transfer  the  solution  to  a  100-mL  volumetric  flask.  Make 
the  flask  up  to  the  mark  and  mix. 

13.  Make  a  10:1  dilution  of  the  sample  solution  for  deter- 
mination of  aluminum  and  a  100:1  dilution  for  determina- 
tion of  the  magnesium. 

14.  Measure  the  absorbance  of  the  aluminum  at  309.3  nm 
and  the  magnesium  at  285.2  nm.  Set  the  other  AA  instru- 
ment parameters  in  accordance  with  the  manufacturer's 
recommendations. 


Procedure  Notes 


1.  Experience  has  shown  that  0.2  g  is  a  convenient 
amount  for  nearly  all  chromite  samples. 

2.  The  amount  of  sodium  peroxide  used  needs  to  be  the 
bare  minimum  necessary  for  rehable  sample  attack  so  that 
the  AA  instrument  will  not  be  overloaded  with  dissolved 

salts. 

3.  The  burner  should  be  capable  of  bringing  the  crucible 
bottom  to  red  heat.  Mixing  is  important.  If  particles  are 
allowed  to  aggregate,  fusing  time  may  have  to  be  extended, 
increasing  the  attack  on  the  crucible  itself  cind  increasing 
the  tendency  of  the  cooled  melt  to  stick  to  the  crucible. 

4.  If  the  melt  is  to  be  leached  quickly,  the  crucible  may 
be  set  on  any  heat-resistant  surface  to  cool.  If  the  crucible 
must  be  set  aside  awhile  after  cooling,  it  should  be  set  on 
a  hotplate  on  low  heat  to  keep  the  melt  from  absorbing 
atmospheric  moisture.  Because  of  its  small  volume,  the 
melt  is  usually  easier  to  remove  from  the  crucible  if  it  has 
solidified  with  the  crucible  tilted. 


5-10.  The  small  sample  and  melt  size  sometimes  makes 
removal  of  the  cooled  melt  difficult.  The  higher  the  iron 
content,  the  more  vigorous  the  leach  reaction.  Police  the 
inside  of  the  crucible  thoroughly.  When  finished,  the  so- 
lution volume  should  be  less  than  100  mL. 

11.  If  extended  heating  was  necessary  and  the  crucible 
attacked,  the  solution  may  not  clarify  because  of  the  pres- 
ence of  hydrolyzed  zirconium.    (This  very  rarely  happens.) 

12.  The  solution  may  be  left  to  evaporate  if  its  final  vol- 
ume is  greater  than  100  mL. 

13.  A  10:1  dilution  will  yield  a  final  dilution  factor  of 
1,000:1  for  the  aluminum.  A  100:1  dilution  will  yield  a  fi- 
nal dilution  factor  of  10,000:1  for  magnesium.  Most  sam- 
ples may  then  be  determined  using  10-  and  20-ppm  stan- 
dards for  the  aluminum  and  2-  and  4-ppm  standards  for 
the  magnesium. 


CALCIUM  IN  MINERAL  CHROMITE  AND  FERROCHROME  SLAGS 


Calcium  is  rarely  found  in  chromite  ores  in  amounts 
greater  than  a  few  tenths  of  a  percent,  zmd  calcium  anad- 
ysis  is  rarely  requested  on  ore  samples.  Calcium 
compounds  are,  however,  used  as  slag  conditioners  for 
ferrochrome  smelting.  Most  of  the  chromite-related 
samples  received  for  calcium  analysis  at  this  Center  have 


been  slag  samples.  The  data  produced  are  used  mainly  to 
establish  material  balance  in  smelter  calculations. 

The  method  of  choice  at  this  Center  is  fusion  with  a 
minimum  of  sodium  peroxide,  solution  with  hydrochloric 
acid,  and  dilution  to  a  proper  range  for  atomic  absorption 
(AA)  spectroscopy. 


12 


The  method  for  the  preparation  of  the  sample  for 
calcium  analysis  is  identical  to  the  preparation  of  the 
sample  for  aluminum  and  magnesium  (previous  section). 
Usually,  the  dilution  prepared  for  aluminum  is  a  proper 
concentration  for  calcium  determination  using  2-  and 
5-ppm  calcium  standards.  Occasionally,  the  dilution 
prepared  for  the  magnesium  determination  is  used  when 
the  calcium  concentration  is  high.  The  undiluted  solution 
(step  12  of  the  aluminum-magnesium  method)  is  used 
when  the  calcium  concentration  is  low.  When  analyzing 
for  calcium,  a  reagent  blank  must  be  C8u-ried  along  to 


correct  for  the  calcium  content  of  the  sodium  peroxide. 
Better  precision  is  obtained  if  the  sodium  peroxide  flux  is 
weighed  when  preparing  the  fusions  for  calcium  analysis. 
The  absorbance  of  the  calcium  solution  is  measured  at 
211.3  nm  with  the  other  AA  instrument  parameters  set 
according  to  the  manufactxu'er's  recommendations.  When 
calcium  determination  is  combined  with  the  determination 
of  fduminxmi  and  magnesium,  samples  may  be  run  rapidly 
and  large  sample  loads  may  be  analyzed  quickly  without 
sacrificing  reUability. 


GRAVIMETRIC  SILICA  IN  MINERAL  CHROMITE  AND  FERROCHROME  SLAGS 


SiHca  is  present  in  chromite  ores  as  a  basic  silicate.  In 
characterization  and  beneficiation  studies  performed  on 
chromites  at  this  Center,  the  chromium-silica  ratio 
determines  the  purity  of  the  gangue  material  being 
analyzed.    Accurate  characterization  of  the  original  ore 


material  amd  the  further  feasibihty  of  smelting  to  ferro- 
chrome  are  identified  by  using  this  ratio. 

The  method  of  analysis  for  silica  at  this  Center  is  dehy- 
dration of  the  siUcic  acid  with  sulfuric  and  perchloric  acids. 
One  dehydration  is  accurate  enough  for  characterization  of 
the  ore. 


Equipment 

Zirconium  crucible  (approximately  30-mL  capacity). 
Platinum  crucible  (approximately  20-mL  capacity). 
Meker  or  similar  gas-air  mix  burner. 
400-mL  beaker  and  cover. 
Boiling  or  bump  cup  for  400-mL  beaker. 
Glass  stirring  rod. 
Hotplate. 

Rubber  policeman. 
Funnel. 

Filter  paper  and  pulp. 

Fume   cabinet   or   hood   suitable  for   the  fuming   of 
perchloric  acid. 
Muffle  furnace. 


Materials 

Sodium  peroxide,  reagent  grade,  granular,  20  mesh  or 
fmer. 

Hydrochloric  acid,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 

Sulfuric  acid,  reagent  grade,  diluted  1:1  with  distilled 
water. 

Perchloric  acid,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 

Hydrofluoric  acid,  reagent  grade,  48  to  51  pet. 

Hydrochloric  acid,  reagent  grade,  diluted  20:1  with 
distilled  water. 


Procedure 


1.  Weigh  0.5  g  of  the  sample  into  a  zirconium  crucible. 

2.  Add  4  to  12  g  of  sodium  peroxide,  and  stir  until  the 
sample  is  thoroughly  mixed. 

3.  Fuse  the  crucible  contents  using  the  gas  and  air 
burner  until  all  particles  are  dissolved  completely. 

4.  When  the  fusion  is  complete,  allow  the  crucible  amd 
its  contents  to  cool. 

5.  Gently  tap  the  melt  into  a  400-mL  beaker,  and  add 
50  to  75  mL  of  distilled  water. 

6.  Carefully  add  to  the  crucible  10  to  15  mL  of  distilled 
water  and  5  mL  of  concentrated  hydrochloric  acid.  When 
the  chemical  action  ceases,  slowly  pour  the  contents  of  the 
crucible  into  the  400-mL  beaker  containing  the  mziin  melt. 


7.  Police  the  crucible,  being  careful  to  remove  any  ad- 
hering silica  particles  from  the  sides. 

8.  Acidify  the  solution  in  the  400-mL  beaker  with  con- 
centrated hydrochloric  acid. 

9.  To  the  beaker  add  30  mL  of  1:1  sulfuric  acid  and 
40  mL  of  concentrated  perchloric  acid. 

10.  Place  the  beaker  and  its  contents  on  a  hotplate  in  a 
perchloric  acid  hood,  and  slowly  evaporate  the  solution 
until  dense  white  fumes  of  perchloric  acid  appear. 

11.  Put  a  cover  glass  over  the  beaker,  and  reflux  at  a 
high-heat  setting  on  the  hotplate  for  15  to  20  min.  A 
boiling  or  bump  cup  made  of  aluminum  or  similar  material 
helps  avoid  splattering. 


12.  When  the  beaker  is  cool,  add  150  mL  of  distilled 
water  to  the  mass  in  the  beaker  and  stir.  SUghtly  heat,  if 
necessary,  to  dissolve  any  insoluble  materiiJ  other  than  the 
silica. 

13.  Filter  the  solution  through  a  medium-speed  paper 
(such  as  S&S  589  white  ribbon)  plus  a  little  paper  pulp, 
and  pohce  the  400-mL  beaker  to  remove  any  silica  that 
adheres  to  the  sides. 

14.  Wash  the  sUica  caught  in  the  filter  paper,  alternately, 
five  times  with  distilled  water  and  five  times  with  the  5-pct 
hydrochloric  acid  wash  solution  (heat  sUghtly). 

15.  After  allowing  the  filter  paper  and  its  contents  to 
drain  properly,  place  them  in  a  clean  platinimi  crucible. 

16.  Starting  at  a  low  temperature  in  a  muffle  furnace, 
ignite  the  crucible  and  contents  to  1,200°  C  for  approxi- 
mately 1  h. 

17.  Cool  in  a  desiccator,  and  weigh  the  platinum  crucible 
containing  the  ignited  sihca  and  its  associated  impurities. 


13 


18.  Add  3  to  5  mL  of  hydrofluoric  acid  and  one  to  two 
drops  of  1:1  sulfuric  acid  to  the  platinum  crucible. 

19.  Slowly  volatilize  the  silica  as  sUicon  tetrafluoride  on 
a  hotplate  at  a  low  heat. 

20.  As  soon  as  the  hydrofluoric  acid  and  silica  have  evap- 
orated and  fumes  of  sulfvu"ic  acid  appear,  increase  the  hot- 
plate temperature  to  a  high  setting. 

21.  When  drying  is  complete,  ignite  the  platinum  crucible 
and  impurities  to  a  red  heat  over  a  burner. 

22.  Weight  the  platinum  crucible  and  impurities  when 
cool. 

Calculation: 

(wt  Ft  crucible  +  Si02+  impurities)  -  (wt  Pt  crucible  +  impurities) 


sample  wt 


X  100  =  pet  total  SiOj. 


Procedure  Notes 


1.  A  sample  size  suitable  for  most  chromite  ores  is 
0.5  g.  If  considerable  (over  40  pet)  sihca  is  present,  reduce 
the  sample  size  to  0.25  g. 

2.  Increase  the  sodium  peroxide  as  the  Scunple  size  in- 
creases, at  an  approximate  ratio  of  20  parts  of  peroxide  to 
1  part  of  sample.  Again,  however,  consideration  must  be 
given  to  melt  volume  at  high  sample  weights.  Thorough 
mixing  cannot  be  overstressed.  Sample  particles  in  the 
melt  can  aggregate  and  stubbornly  resist  attack. 

3.  The  burner  should  be  capable  of  bringing  the  crucible 
to  red  heat  on  the  bottom.  Mixing  remains  important.  If 
particles  are  allowed  to  aggregate,  fusing  time  may  have  to 
be  extended,  which  increases  the  attack  on  the  crucible 
itself,  shortening  its  useful  life,  increasing  the  tendency  of 
the  cooled  melt  to  stick  to  the  crucible,  and  adding  a  sig- 
nificant concentration  of  zirconium  to  the  analyte  solution. 

4.  If  the  melt  is  to  be  leached  quickly,  the  crucible  can 
be  set  out  on  any  heat-resistant  material  to  cool.  If  the 
melt  has  to  be  set  aside  for  a  while,  it  should  be  set  on  a 
hotplate  on  low  heat  to  keep  it  from  absorbing  atmo- 
spheric water  (which  makes  the  melt  stick  to  the  crucible). 

5.  If  gentle  tapping  does  not  free  the  melt,  try  mod- 
erately hard  tapping.  If  the  melt  still  sticks,  lay  the  cru- 
cible on  its  side  in  the  bottom  of  the  beaker. 

6.  The  leaching  reaction  can  range  from  very  slow  to 
very  vigorous.  A  high  aluminum  concentration  tends  to 
slow  the  reaction.  A  slow  leach  reaction  may  become  a 
very  (ast  leach  reaction  when  sulfuric  acid  is  added,  so 


care  must  be  exercised.  Once  the  leach  reaction  has  fin- 
ished, the  addition  of  sulfuric  acid  is  generally  accom- 
panied by  moderate  effervescence  unless  a  significant 
amount  of  carbonate  is  present. 

7.  Using  glassware  will  introduce  negligible  silica  into 
the  analysis,  although  one  must  be  careful  not  to  uninten- 
tionally add  silica  by  accidentally  chipping  a  stirring  rod, 
etc.  CfUefully  pohce  all  glassware  and  crucibles  to  remove 
particles  of  sihca.  Nonignited  silica  is  quite  sticky  and  ad- 
heres readily  to  most  surfaces. 

9.  The  purpose  of  using  sulfuric  and  perchloric  acids  is 
to  dehydrate  the  soluble  silicic  acid  Si02*H20  to  insolu- 
ble sihca  (SiOj).  These  two  acids  are  excellent  for  this 
purpose. 

10.  A  speciail  perchloric  acid  hood  is  needed  for  evapo- 
ration since  most  commercial  hoods  are  not  designed  for 
this  purpose  and  may  react  explosively  to  perchloric  acid 
fumes. 

11.  When  the  solution  reaches  a  volume  of  approximately 
100  to  125  mL,  salts  start  to  precipitate.  As  this  happens, 
occasional  stirring  keeps  the  solution  well  mixed  and  pre- 
vents bumping.  A  bump  or  boiling  cup  is  a  good  preventa- 
tive measure  against  splattering. 

12.  An  acid  volume  of  50  to  75  mL  is  satisfactory  for  re- 
fluxing  to  begin.  Do  not  fume  off  all  of  the  perchloric 
acid.  If  this  happens,  insoluble  chromium  salts  will  appear, 
which  will  not  redissolve  upon  adding  water.  Should  this 
occur,  add  more  perchloric  acid  and  refume.  Refluxing  for 


14 


15  to  20  min  removes  almost  all  of  the  water  from  the 
silicic  acid  and  also  oxidizes  the  iron  and  chromium  in 
solution  to  an  orange  color. 

13.  After  adding  distilled  water  to  the  cooled  and  refluxed 
silicic  acid,  do  not  let  the  solution  stand  for  long,  as  some 
of  the  colloidal  silica  will  redissolve.  It  may  be  necessary 
to  heat  the  beaker  and  its  contents  slightly  or  to  add 
several  milUliters  of  concentrated  hydrochloric  acid  to 
redissolve  any  material  that  is  difficult  to  dissolve. 

14.  Wash  the  fdter  paper  carefully  to  remove  all  traces  of 
perchloric  acid.  //  this  is  not  done,  the  remaining 
perchlorates  will  ignite  explosively  in  the  furnace. 

16.  The  ignition  to  1,200°  C  effectively  removes  all  traces 
of  water  from  the  silica. 

17.  Ignited  sihca  (SiOj)  is  hght  and  fluffy.  Avoid  air 
drafts  and  spillage  when  weighing  and  igniting.  The 
weighed  silica  is  always  impure,  and  with  chromites  it  may 
have  a  light  greenish  color.  Impurities  include  aluminum, 


chromium,  iron,  titanium,  vanadium,  and  zirconium,  as 
well  as  beryUium,  calcium,  amd  strontium,  if  present  in  the 
initial  material.  The  weight  of  impurities  should  be 
extremely  small  in  compairison  to  the  weight  of  silica 
obtained  if  the  analysis  is  carefully  done. 

18.  Adding  hydrofluoric  acid  to  the  weighed  silica 
produces  sihcon  tetrafluoride  (SiF^),  which  is  a  gas.  This 
step  must  be  done  in  a  hood  as  fumes  of  hydrofluoric  acid 
and  silicon  tetrafluoride  are  extremely  toxic.  Sulfuric  acid 
also  must  be  added  to  the  platinum  crucible  containing  the 
ignited  sihca  and  impurities.  When  the  platinum  crucible 
is  reignited  with  its  residue  of  iron,  aluminum,  etc., 
everything  remaining  will  be  reignited  to  an  oxide  form, 
as  originally  done  at  1,200°  C  rather  than  to  a  fluoride 
form.  As  an  example,  ferric  sulfate  [Fe2(S04)3]  as  an 
impurity  in  the  platinum  crucible  is  converted  to  ferric 
oxide  (FejOj)  and  sulfur  trioxide  (SO3)  upon  reignition. 

21.  Dirty  platinum  crucibles  may  be  cleaned  by  fusing 
sodium  bisulfate  in  them  until  the  sides  and  bottom  are 
free  of  stuck  particles. 


MANGANESE  IN  MINERAL  CHROMITE,  FERROCHROME 
SLAGS,  AND  FERROCHROME 


Manganese  commonly  occurs  in  mineral  chromite  as  an 
impurity,  and  the  amount  can  range  from  trace  quantities 
to  a  few  percent.  In  ferrochrome  smelting  operations,  the 
manganese  should  find  its  way  into  the  slag  rather  than  the 
metal.  Data  from  these  analyses  have  most  often  been 
used  to  trace  the  partitioning  of  the  manganese  through 
the  smelting  process  and  for  material  balance  calculations. 

At  this  Center,  the  method  of  choice  for  slags 
and  ores  is  decomposition  by  peroxide  fusion,  followed 
by  a  separation  of  interfering  elements  and  oxidation  of 

Equipment 

Zirconium  crucible  (approximately  30  mL  capacity). 

Meker  or  similar  gas-air  mix  burner. 

150-mL  beaker. 

250-mL  beaker  cmd  cover. 

Stirring  rod. 

Magnetic  stirrer  and  stirring  bar. 

200-mL  volumetric  flask. 

100-mL  volumetric  flask. 

Rubber  policeman. 

Funnel. 

Filter  paper. 

Assorted  pipettes. 

UV-visible  spectrophotometer. 

Wash  bottle. 


the  manganese  to  permanganate,  to  be  measured  by 
molecular  absorbance  in  an  ultraviolet-  (UV)  visible 
spectrophotometer. 

MetaUic  ferrochrome  samples  may  be  decomposed  by 
fusion  if  the  sample  is  ground  to  100  mesh  or  finer  and  the 
sodium  peroxide  flux  is  moderated  by  the  addition  of  10  to 
20  pet  of  sodium  carbonate.  Acid  digestion  beginning  with 
approximately  5-pct  sulfuric  acid  and  a  trace  of  hydro- 
fluoric acid  is  the  alternative. 


Materials 

Sodium  peroxide,  reagent  grade,  granular,  20  mesh  or 
finer. 

Sodium  carbonate,  reagent  grade,  anhydrous  powder. 

Sulfuric  acid,  reagent  grade,  diluted  1:1  with  distilled 
water. 

Hydrogen  peroxide,  reagent  grade,  30-pct  solution. 

Zinc  oxide,  reagent  grade,  slurry. 

lodate  oxidant  solution. 

Standard  manganese  solution. 


15 


Procedure 


1.  Weigh  the  sample  into  a  zirconium  crucible. 

2.  Add  5  to  10  g  of  sodium  peroxide  (plus  1  to  2  g  of 
sodiiun  carbonate  for  ferrochrome  metal),  and  stir  until 
the  sample  and  flux  are  thoroughly  mixed. 

3.  Fuse  over  a  burner  until  all  sample  particles  are 
dissolved.  Swirl  and  inspect  occasionally  to  keep  unat- 
tacked  particles  dispersed. 

4.  When  the  fusion  is  complete,  allow  the  crucible  and 
melt  to  cool. 

5.  When  they  are  cool,  tap  gently  to  free  the  melt  from 
the  bottom  of  the  crucible. 

6.  Place  the  soUdified  melt  in  the  250-mL  beaker,  add 
about  20  mL  of  distilled  water,  and  cover  immediately. 

7.  Place  the  crucible  in  front  of  its  beaker,  and  add  to 
the  crucible  about  5  mL  of  distilled  water  and  about  2  mL 
of  1:1  sulfuric  acid. 

8.  Police  the  crucible  thoroughly,  and  slowly  rinse  its 
contents  into  the  beciker  with  a  small  amount  of  distilled 
water. 

9.  Remove  and  rinse  the  beaker  cover  and  the  beaker 
sides.   Place  a  stirring  rod  in  the  beaker. 

10.  Slowly  and  with  vigorous  stirring,  acidify  the  leach  in 
the  beaker  with  1:1  sulfuric  acid. 

11.  Add  30-pct  hydrogen  peroxide  dropwise  with  vigorous 
stirring  to  reduce  the  Cr**  to  Cr"^^  and  bring  the  beaker  to 
a  boil  to  decompose  any  excess  peroxide. 

12.  When  the  solution  is  clear,  remove  from  the  hotplate 
and  cool  to  room  temperature. 


13.  Place  a  stirring  bar  in  the  beaker  and  begin  stirring  at 
a  moderate  rate. 

14.  Add  zinc  oxide  slurry  in  small  (3-  to  5-mL)  portions, 
allowing  for  dispersion  between  additions,  until  all  iron 
and  chromium  are  precipitated  and  a  small  excess  of  zinc 
oxide  is  apparent. 

15.  Remove  juid  rinse  the  stirring  bar,  and  transfer  the 
sample  slurry  to  a  200-mL  volumetric  flask.  Use  a  wash 
bottle  to  ensure  complete  transfer. 

16.  Cool  to  room  temperature  and  make  up  to  volume 
with  distilled  water.  Stopper,  mix,  and  let  settle  for  a  time. 

17.  Using  a  dry  funnel,  dry  paper,  and  a  dry  beaker,  fil- 
ter a  portion  of  the  supernatant  Uquid  through  a  medium- 
speed  qualitative  paper  (such  as  S&S  597). 

18.  Pipette  an  ahquot  of  dry  filtered  solution  into  a 
150-mL  beaker. 

19.  Add  20  mL  of  the  iodate  oxidant  solution,  and  set  the 
beaker  on  a  hotplate  at  low  to  medium  heat. 

20.  Leave  the  beaker  on  the  hotplate  for  about  15  min 
after  the  first  appearance  of  the  permanganate  purple. 

21.  Remove  the  beaker  from  the  hotplate,  and  cool  to 
room  temperature. 

22.  Transfer  the  solution  to  a  100-mL  volumetric  flask, 
make  to  the  mark  with  distilled  water,  stopper,  and  mix. 

23.  Measure  the  absorbance  of  the  solution  with  a 
UV-visible  spectrophotometer  at  545  nm. 

24.  Prepare  a  cahbration  curve  by  pipetting  appropriate 
aliquots  of  a  standard  manganese  solution  into  150-mL 
beakers  and  following  steps  19  through  23. 


Procedure  Notes 


1.  Sample  size  is  estimated  to  yield  0.5  to  1  mg  of 
manganese  in  the  final  aliquot  for  oxidation. 

2.  Increase  the  sodium  peroxide  as  the  sample  size 
increases,  but  consider  the  final  melt  volume  when  the 
sample  weight  approaches  1  g.  When  metcds  are  fused  in 
sodium  peroxide  they  tend  to  behave  like  a  thermite 
mixture.  Carbon  will  behave  that  way  also  but  will  not  get 
as  hot  as  a  metal.  The  addition  of  sodium  carbonate  to 
the  flux  will  slow  the  reaction  of  metal  and  peroxide.  Iron 
burns  very  fast  and  very  hot;  chromium  burns  much  more 
slowly.  If  a  sample  of  ferrochrome  were  as  high  as  80  pet 
chromium,  moderation  with  sodium  carbonate  would  prob- 
ably not  be  necessary  as  long  as  the  sample  and  flux 


were  well  mixed.  Efficient  mixing  of  the  sample  and  flux 
cannot  be  overemphasized.  Several  milligrams  of  sample 
left  unmixed  can  produce  a  spot  hot  enough  to  burn 
through  a  zirconium  crucible. 

3.  The  burner  should  be  capable  of  bringing  the  bottom 
of  the  crucible  to  red  heat.  When  the  flux  and  sample 
reach  sintering  temperature,  sample  particles  may  begin  to 
burn.  This  produces  reddish-orange  flashes  and  some 
hissing  and  popping  sounds.  When  this  happens,  remove 
the  crucible  from  the  flame  and  attempt  to  swirl  the  con- 
tents so  that  the  heat  of  the  burning  metal  will  be 
absorbed  by  the  remaining  flux  and  sample  mix.  This  is 
called  autofusion  and  is  common  in  samples  with  a  very 


16 


high  carbon  content  and  well-moderated  flux.  Rarely  will 
any  of  the  sample-flux  mixture  be  ejected  from  ine  crucible 
if  mixing  has  been  thorough.  Very  rarely  a  sample-flux 
mix  will  "skyrocket"  or  be  uncontrollably  active.  If  this 
happens,  while  holding  the  crucible  with  tongs,  remove  the 
crucible  from  the  flame  and  hold  it  as  still  as  possible  until 
the  activity  has  subsided.  Let  the  melt  soUdify  and  drop 
the  crucible  into  a  large  beaker  or  sink  partly  filled  with 
tap  water.  Spilled  melt  may  sometimes  be  chipped  off 
such  materials  as  transite  and  stone  counters,  but  thorough 
cleanup  will  require  the  use  of  dilute  acid  and  plenty  of 
water.  Skyrocketing  is  nearly  always  caused  by  inaccurate 
sample  estimates,  very  poor  mixing  of  sample  and  flux,  or 
lack  of  flux  moderation;  with  care  it  is  avoidable. 

4.  If  the  melt  is  to  be  leached  soon,  then  the  crucible 
may  be  placed  on  any  heat-resistant  material  to  cool.  If 
the  melt  must  sit  for  some  time  before  leaching,  the 
crucible  can  be  placed  on  a  low-heat  hotplate  to  keep  it 
from  absorbing  atmospheric  moisture. 

5-6.  If  gentle  tapping  does  not  free  the  melt,  then 
stronger  tapping  should  be  tried.  If  the  melt  sticks 
stubbornly,  then  place  the  crucible  upside  down  on  a  clean 
piece  of  some  durable,  nonbrittle,  nonreactive  material 
(such  as  a  clean  scrap  of  counter  stone).  Tap  on  the 
bottom  of  the  crucible  with  a  light  hammer  until  the  melt 
is  broken  free.  Transfer  the  melt  to  a  250-mL  beaker,  and 
rinse  any  small  melt  particles  into  the  beaker  also. 
Proceed  with  the  leach. 

7-8.  Often  a  small  part  of  the  melt  will  stick  in  the 
crucible  bottom,  and  the  melt  will  splatter  on  the  crucible 
walls  during  fusion.  These  walls  should  all  be  poUced. 
Pour  the  policing  solution  into  the  beaker  slowly  and 
carefully.  The  solution  in  the  beaker  is  very  basic,  and  the 
solution  in  the  crucible  is  moderately  acidic. 

9.  The  leaching  reaction  is  usually  quite  active  and  often 
splashes  leachate  on  the  cover  and  sides. 

10.  Considerable  heat  is  evolved  when  acidifying  the 
highly  basic  leachate  with  the  highly  acidic  1:1  sulfuric  acid. 
Excess  sodium  peroxide  will  also  be  partially  decomposed 
and  give  off  oxygen.  Vigorous  stirring  and  slow  acid 
addition  are  therefore  imperative.  Observe  closely  during 
the  acid  addition  to  keep  the  reaction  from  boiling  out  of 
the  beaker.  If  sodium  carbonate  was  added  to  the  flux, 
then  carbon  dioxide  will  be  evolved  on  acidification, 
causing  considerable  foaming  and  requiring  even  closer 
attention. 

11.  Ideally,  just  enough  acid  should  be  added  to  com- 
pletely dissolve  the  melt.   Practically,  attempt  to  keep  the 


excess  of  acid  small;  it  will  be  neutralized  in  a  later  step. 
The  solutions  resulting  from  fused  samples  usually  have 
most,  if  not  all,  of  their  chromium  in  the  f  6  state.  It  is 
necessary  to  reduce  this  chromium  to  the  +  3  state  so  that 
it  win  be  precipitated  by  the  zinc  oxide  since  the  Cr^*  will 
interfere  in  the  absorbance  measurement.  The  most  often 
used  method  of  reducing  the  Cr^^  to  the  Cr^^  state  is  to 
add  small  portions  of  30-pct  hydrogen  peroxide  until  an 
addition  produces  no  color  change  and  little  more  effer- 
vescence. The  solution  is  then  boiled  for  several  minutes 
to  destroy  excess  peroxide.  The  addition  of  hydrogen  per- 
oxide to  cm  acidic  solution  of  Cr^*  first  produces  the  pur- 
ple Cr^^  ion,  which  then  disproportionates  to  Cr^^  and 
Cr**.  This  purple  color  is  very  intense;  lack  of  it,  upon  a 
peroxide  addition,  is  the  prime  indicator  of  complete 
reduction.  Boiling  will  decompose  excess  hydrogen  per- 
oxide, but  a  small  amount  remains  intact.  This  excess 
peroxide  will  consume  the  oxidizing  solution  by  reacting 
with  the  oxidized  manganese.  Therefore,  close  attention 
must  be  given  during  the  Cr^*  reduction  to  minimize  the 
hydrogen  peroxide  excess. 

12.  The  zinc  oxide  precipitation  will  cause  heat  to  be 
evolved,  so  the  solution  should  be  cooled. 

13-15.  Stirring  should  be  vigorous  enough  to  completely 
disperse  the  added  zinc  oxide  slurry  but  not  vigorous 
enough  to  cause  bubbles.  For  the  best  results,  allow  the 
first  few  additions  to  dissolve  completely  before  continuing. 
When  the  precipitate  becomes  dark  and  begins  to  persist, 
make  the  additions  slightly  larger  and  more  frequent  until 
the  precipitate  no  longer  darkens  but  begins  to  lighten  in 
color.  The  precipitation  is  complete  when  there  are  white 
particles  of  zinc  oxide  visible  in  the  precipitate  and  the  liq- 
uid looks  slightly  milky  if  the  precipitate  is  allowed  to  set- 
tle for  a  minute  or  two. 

16.  When  mixing  the  contents  of  the  flask,  shake  vigor- 
ously enough  to  dislodge  from  the  glass  any  precipitate 
that  has  caked  while  cooling. 

18.  Take  an  aliquot  to  approximate  a  manganese  content 
of  1  mg  if  possible,  but  use  50  mL  as  a  maximum. 

20.  All  of  the  manganese  present  should  be  oxidized  with- 
in 5  min  of  the  first  appearance  of  color;  15-min  digestion 
allows  a  safety  factor. 

23.  Measurements  should  be  made  the  same  day  as  the 
oxidation  step.  Checks  made  at  this  Center  have  indicated 
that  the  color  is  stable  for  at  least  24  h,  except  in  the  case 
of  very  high  manganese  concentrations  (more  than  3  mg  of 
manganese  per  100-mL  flask). 


17 


ACID  DIGESTION  OF  FERROCHROME  METAL 


At  times  it  may  be  necessary  or  desirable  to  dissolve  a 
ferrochrome  sample  in  acid  rather  than  fusing  it  in  sodium 
peroxide.  Acid  digestion  methods  are  slow,  but  require 
little  in  the  way  of  attention.  Two  alternative  methods  are 


described  here.  The  A  method  is  the  basic  method  to  use 
for  most  ferrochrome  samples.  The  B  method  is  for  very 
stubborn  samples. 


METHOD  A 


Equipment 

250-mL  beaker  and  cover. 
400-mL  beaker  and  cover. 
Hotplate. 
Funnel  (optional). 
Filter  paper  (optional). 
Fume  hood. 


Materials 

Sulfuric  acid,  reagent  grade,  5-pct  solution. 
Hydrofluoric  acid,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 


Procedure 


1.  Weigh  the  sample  into  a  250-mL  beaker. 

2.  Add  100  mL  of  5-pct  sulfuric  acid  solution  and  1  to 
2  mL  of  concentrated  hydrofluoric  acid. 

3.  Place  the  beaker  on  a  low-  to  medium-heat  hotplate, 
and  cover. 

4.  When  the  sample  has  dissolved,  remove  the  cover  and 
take  the  solution  to  fumes  of  sulfuric  acid;  allow  it  to  fume 
for  a  few  minutes. 

5.  Remove  the  beaker  from  the  heat,  cool,  and  dilute 
with  distilled  water.  Warm  if  necessary  to  redissolve  the 
salts. 


6a.  If  the  sample  is  for  a  total  chromium  determination, 
transfer  the  solution  to  a  400-mL  beaker  and  go  to  step  11 
of  the  total  chromium  method. 

6b.  If  the  sample  is  for  total  iron  determination,  transfer 
the  solution  to  a  400-mL  beaker,  add  3  to  5  g  of  am- 
monium chloride,  and  go  to  step  10  of  the  total  iron 
method. 

6c.  If  the  sample  is  for  manganese  determination,  cool  to 
room  temperature  or  below  and  go  to  step  13  of  the  man- 
ganese method. 


Procedure  Notes 


2.  The  acid  digestion  must  be  started  gently.  If  the 
initial  acid  concentration  is  too  high,  the  chromium  in  the 
ferrochrome  will  be  passivated  or  become  very  unreactive. 
The  low  initial  sulfuric  acid  concentration  and  the  addition 
of  the  small  amount  of  hydrofluoric  acid  are  to  avoid  this 
passivation. 

3.  The  solution  will  slowly  lose  water;  do  not  allow  the 
total  volume  to  drop  below  about  25  mL  until  all  of  the 
sample  has  dissolved. 


4.  Do  not  take  the  solution  to  copious  fumes  or  allow  it 
to  fume  for  more  than  a  few  minutes.  Excess  fuming  can 
form  refractory  chromium  salts  that  are  as  difficult  to  dis- 
solve as  chromite  itself. 

6.  The  solution  may  contain  carbon  or  precipitated 
silica.  To  remove  them,  if  desired,  filter  the  solution 
through  a  medium-  to  slow-speed  quaHtative  paper  and 
wash  thoroughly. 


METHOD  B 


Equipment 

250-mL  beaker  and  cover. 
400-mL  beaker  and  cover. 
Hotplate, 
Funnel  (optional). 
Filter  paper  (optional). 
Perchloric  acid  fume  hood. 


Materials 

Perchloric  acid,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 
Nitric  acid,  reagent  grade,  concentrated. 


18 


Procedure 

1.  Weigh  the  sample  into  a  250-mL  beaker.  4.  Cover  the  beaker  and  set  on  a  medium-  to  high-heat 

hotplate. 

2.  Add  enough  water  to  just  cover  the  sample  and 

25  mL  of  perchloric  acid.  5.  Bring  to  fumes  of  perchloric  acid,  and  fume,  covered, 

until  all  metal  particles  are  dissolved. 

3.  If  the  sample  is  known  to  have  a  high  carbon  content, 

add  20  mL  of  concentrated  nitric  acid.  6.  See  step  6  of  method  A. 

Procedure  Notes 


3.  Nitric  acid  is  necessary  only  when  carbon  is  present 
in  percent  amounts.  The  nitric  acid  partially  oxidizes  the 
carbon  so  that  when  the  perchloric  acid  begins  to  react 
with  it  the  carbon  does  not  react  explosively.  Carbon  that 
has  not  been  predigested  with  nitric  acid  wiU  often  react 
explosively  when  the  perchloric  acid  reaches  fuming 
temperature. 

4-6.  The  sample  is  attacked  by  fuming  perchloric  acid  to 
produce  chromic  acid.  The  process  is  slow,  and  the  cover 
is  necessary  to  provide  some  reflux.  Chromic  acid  crystals 
are  usually  produced,  and  it  may  be  necessary  to  cool  the 
beaker  and  dissolve  the  crystals  with  water  to  see  if 
the  last  particles  of  sample  have  dissolved.  Silica  is 
precipitated  by  the  fuming  perchloric  acid  and  may  be 


visible  as  hght-colored,  low-density  particles  in  the 
solution.  Carbon  is  oxidized  to  carbon  dioxide  by  the 
fuming  acid,  but  occasionally  graphite  will  survive  the 
treatment.  If  graphite  is  present,  it  will  usually  be  found 
floating  on  the  surface  of  the  solution  and  occasionally  as 
dark-colored,  low-density  particles  on  the  bottom. 
Unattacked  sample  will  be  the  only  heavy  or  high-density 
particles  in  the  beaker.  If  no  heavy  particles  can  be  seen, 
then  the  solution  is  considered  complete.  If  the  sample  is 
to  be  used  for  a  manganese  determination,  the  chromium 
should  be  reduced  to  the  +3  state.  (See  step  11  of  the 
manganese  method.)  If  removal  of  the  perchloric  acid  is 
desired,  this  ccm  be  done  by  adding  20  mL  of  1:1  sulfuric 
acid  and  taking  it  to  fumes. 


DISCUSSION 


Analysts  assigned  to  make  a  new  determination  on  a 
sample  often  must  deduce  the  significance  of  steps  in  the 
usually  sketchy  procedure  descriptions  of  in-house  methods 
and  methods  in  journal  or  reference  pubUcations.  The 
familiau^ization  process  results  in  a  delay  in  mastering  the 
method.  This  report  seeks  to  shorten  that  delay,  allowing 
analysts  newly  assigned  to  the  covered  determinations  a 
quicker  understanding  of  the  methods. 

The  information  presented  here  was  collected  empiri- 
cally by  the  analysis  of  thousands  of  samples  over  several 
years  and  the  observation  of  the  effects  of  small  variations 
in  technique. 


The  rehance  on  zirconium  crucibles  as  alkaline  fusion 
vessels  may  have  been  noted.  Their  reUability  in  terms  of 
durability  and  lowered  introduction  of  interfering  species 
in  comparison  to  iron  and  nickel  crucibles  has  been  proven 
to  the  satisfaction  of  this  Center.  They  should  not,  how- 
ever, be  used  in  fusions  in  a  muffle  furnace  because  of  sig- 
nificant oxygen  attack. 

Any  request  for  assistance  concerning  the  subject  of  this 
report  should  be  addressed  to  the  authors,  Bureau  of 
Mines,  Albany  Reseau^ch  Center,  Albany,  OR. 


REFERENCES 


1.  Thomas,  P.  R.,  and  E.  H.  Boyle,  Jr.  Chromium 
Availability-Market  Economy  Countries.  A  Minerals  Availability 
Program  Appraisal.  BuMines  IC  8977,  1984,  86  pp. 

2.  Dahlin,  D.  C,  L.  L.  Brown,  and  J.  J.  Kinney.  Podiform  Chromite 
Occurrences  in  the  Caribou  Mountain  and  Lower  Kanuti  River  Areas, 
Central  Alaska.   Part  II:  Beneficiation.   BuMines  IC  8916,  1983,  15  pp. 

3.  Kirby,  D.  E.,  D.  R.  George,  and  C.  B.  Daellenbach.  Chromium 
Recovery  From  Nickel-Cobalt  Laterite  and  Laterite  Leach  Residues. 
BuMines  RI  8676,  1982,  22  pp. 

4.  Cotton,  F.  A.,  and  G.  Wilkinson.  Advanced  Inorganic  Chemistry. 
A  Comprehensive  Text.    Interscience  Publ.,  3d  ed,  1972,  1145  pp. 

5.  Hillebrand,  W.  F.,  and  G.  E.  F.  Lundell.  Applied  Inorganic 
Analysis.  With  Sf>ecial  Reference  to  the  Analysis  of  Metals,  Minerals, 
and  Rocks.    Wiley,  1953,  1034  pp. 

6.  Jeffery,  P.  G.  Chemical  Methods  of  Rock  Analysis.  Pergamon, 
1975,  525  pp. 


7.  Kolthoff,  I.  M.,  P.  V.  Elving,  and  E.  B.  Sandell  (eds).  Treatise  on 
Analytical  Chemistry.   Interscience  Encyclopedia,  pt  2,  v.  2-4,  7-8,  1961. 

8.  Lundell,  G.  E.  F.,  and  J.  I.  Hoffman.     Outlines  of  Chemical 
Analysis.   Wiley,  1938,  250  pp. 

9.  Lundell,  G.  E.  F.,  J.  I.  Hoffman,  and  H.  A.  Bright.    Chemical 
Analysis  of  Iron  and  Steel.    Wiley,  1931,  641  pp. 

10.  Scott,  W.  W.,  and  N.  H.  Furman  (eds).  Scott's  Standard  Methods 
of  Chemical  Analysis.    D.  Van  Nostrand,  v.  1,  5th  ed.,  1948,  1234  pp. 

11.  Weinig,  A.  J.,  and  W.  P.  Schoder.    Technical  Methods  of  Ore 
Analysis  of  Chemist  and  Colleges.    Wiley,  11th  ed.,  1948,  325  pp. 

12.  Welcher,  F.  J.  (ed).    Standard  Methods  of  Chemical  Analysis. 
D.  Van  Nostrand,  v.  1,  6th  ed.,  1962,  1401  pp. 

13.  Young,    R.    S.      Chemical   Analysis   in   Extractive   Metallurgy. 
Charies  Griffin,  1971,  427  pp. 


19 


APPENDIX  A.-REAGENT  PREPARATION 


O.IN  Fe*^  Solution 


Calculation 


Preparation 

Dissolve  39  g  of  ferrous  ammonium  sulfate  hexahydrate 
in  distilled  water  with  10  mL  of  concentrated  sulfuric  acid. 
Dilute  to  1  L  with  distilled  water. 

Standardization 

Weigh  accurately  130  to  140  mg  of  primary  standard- 
grade  potassiiun  dichromate  into  each  of  three  400-mL 
beakers.  Add  about  150  mL  of  distilled  water  and  about 
5  mL  of  concentrated  sulfuric  acid,  and  stir  until  com- 
pletely dissolved.  Titrate  with  the  new  ferrous  solution  to 
the  disappearance  of  the  diphenylamine  sulfonate  indicator 
purple. 


NCr^^  = 


Calculation 


A^Fe 


+  2         wt  K2Cr207  X  pet  purity  K2Cr20-7 
meq  wt  K2Cr207  x  100  x  mL  titrated 

mg  Cr  A^  Fe^^  x  51.996 


mL  Fe^^  3 

1  mL  O.IOOA^  Fe^'  =  1.733  mg  Cr. 
O.IN  Cr*^  Solution 
Preparation 

Dissolve  4.9  g  of  potassium  dichromate  in  distilled  wa- 
ter and  dilute  to  1  L. 

Standardization 

Weigh  accurately  0.17  to  0.18  g  of  electrolytic  or  NBS 
standard-grade  iron  metal  into  each  of  three  250-mL 
beakers.  Add  20  mL  of  distilled  water  and  20  mL  of 
concentrated  hydrochloric  acid,  cover,  and  heat  gently  until 
the  iron  is  completely  dissolved.  When  dissolved,  remove 
from  the  heat.  Remove  the  cover,  and  rinse  cuiy 
condensate  into  the  beaker.  Rinse  the  beaker  sides,  and 
quantitatively  transfer  the  solution  to  a  500-mL  Erlen- 
meyer  flask.  Make  the  volume  up  to  125  to  150  mL  with 
distilled  water.  Bring  to  a  boil  and,  dropwise,  add  10-pct 
stannous  chloride  solution,  with  mixing,  until  the  solution 
is  colorless.  Add  3  to  5  drops  excess  and  just  bring  to  a 
boil  again.  Cool  to  room  temperature  or  below,  and  add 
10  mL  of  a  saturated  solution  of  mercuric  chloride:  mix, 
and  add  10  mL  of  concentrated  phosphoric  acid.  Titrate 
with  the  prepared  Cr*^  solution  using  sodium  diphenyl- 
amine sulfonate  indicator  to  a  purple  endpoint. 


wt  Fe  X  pet  purity  Fe 
meq  wl  Fe  x  100  x  mL  titrated 

mg  Fe 


A^  Cr"^^  X  55.847. 


mL  Cr"^^  sol'n 
1  mL  O.IOOON  Cr"^^  =  5.585  mg  Fe. 

Sodium  Diphenylamine  Sulfonate  Indicator 

Dissolve  1.35  g  of  reagent-grade  sodium  diphenylamine 
sulfonate  in  500  mL  of  distUled  water. 

Vanadium-Acid  Mixture  for  Ferrous  Iron 

Add  3.0  g  of  vanadium  pentoxide  (V2O5)  to  a  mixture 
of  300  mL  of  concentrated  phosphoric  acid  and  600  mL  of 
concentrated  sulfuric  acid.  Heat  and  stir  until  all  of  the 
vanadium  pentoxide  has  dissolved.  Add,  dropwse,  a 
saturated  solution  of  potassium  permanganate  until  the 
acid  mixture  gives  a  faint  pink  when  a  few  drops  are 
diluted  with  water.  Heat  to  fumes  of  sulfuric  acid,  and 
continue  to  fume  for  several  minutes  to  destroy  the  excess 
permainganate.  Cool  thoroughly  and  transfer  to  a  stock 
bottle.  If  filtration  is  necessary,  use  a  pad  of  glass  wool  in 
a  large  funnel. 

Silver  Nitrate  Solution 

Dissolve  25  g  of  reagent-grade  silver  nitrate  in  distilled 
water  and  10  mL  of  concentrated  nitric  acid.  Dilute  to  1 
L  and  store  away  from  light. 

Stannous  Chloride  Reducing  Solution 

Dissolve  20  g  of  stannous  chloride  in  200  mL  of  20-pct 
(1:4)  hydrochloric  acid.  Make  this  solution  fresh  weekly  or 
store  it  in  a  bottle  with  several  high-purity  tin  shot. 

Saturated  Mercuric  Chloride  Solution 

Heat  distilled  water  in  a  large  beaker  to  almost  boiling. 
Add  reagent-grade  mercuric  chloride  to  the  water  by  the 
spoon  or  spatula  with  vigorous  stirring  until  no  more  will 
dissolve.   Transfer  to  a  stock  bottle. 

Manganese  Oxidant  Solution 

Dissolve  7.5  g  of  reagent-grade  potassium  periodate  in 
100  mL  of  hot  1:1  nitric  acid.  When  dissolved,  cool  and 
add  400  mL  of  concentrated  phosphoric  acid,  dilute  to  1  L, 
and  transfer  to  a  stock  bottle. 


20 


Saturated  Manganese  Solution 

Nearly  fill  a  convenient  size  stock  bottle  with  warm 
distilled  water.  Add  manganese  sulfate  or  potassium 
permanganate  to  the  bottle,  and  shake  or  stir  until 
dissolved.  Repeat  until  no  more  will  dissolve,  and  add  a 
small  excess.  Transfer  a  portion  of  the  supernatant  liquid 
to  a  dropping  bottle  for  use.  Replenish  the  water  or  the 
manganese  compoimd  as  necessary. 


Zinc  Oxide  Slurry 

Half  fill  a  250-mL  beaker  with  zinc  oxide  powder.  Add 
distilled  water  with  stirring  until  the  slurry  is  smooth  and 
is  the  consistency  of  heavy  cream  or  heavy  latex  pjiint.  Stir 
the  slurry  occasionally  diu-ing  use.- 


21 


APPENDIX  B.-USE  OF  ZIRCONIUM  CRUCIBLES 


Zirconium  crucibles  are  rapidly  becoming  a  standiu-d 
piece  of  equipment,  particularly  in  laboratories  where 
fusions  using  strongly  alkaline  fluxes  are  common.  This 
Center  has  found  no  better  material  to  use  for  the  thou- 
sands of  sodium  peroxide  fusions  that  are  done  here  every 
year. 

Zirconium  crucibles  usually  arrive  from  their  supphers 
in  a  polished,  silvery  state.  They  resemble  a  polished  iron 
or  nickel  crucible  very  closely.  If  they  become  confused 
with  iron  or  nickel  crucibles,  they  can  be  identified  by 
tapping  them  with  a  pencil  or  spatula  and  hstening  to  the 
tone  produced.  Zirconium  crucibles  produce  a  pleasant, 
almost  musical  tone  when  tapped.  The  first  use  of  the 
crucible  in  a  flame  wiU  produce  a  dark-gray  coating  over 
the  metal  that  seems  to  enhance  the  crucible's  resistance 
to  sodium  peroxide.  It  is  thought  that  this  coating  is  a 
nitride  or  a  nitride-oxide  mixture,  but  no  attempt  has  been 
made  to  confirm  or  refute  the  idea. 

The  use  of  zirconium  crucibles  should  be  limited  to 
alkaline  fluxes  and  fusions  done  over  a  burner.  Zirconium 
crucibles  should  not  be  used  for  extended  fusions  or 
ignitions  in  a  muffle  furnace  unless  an  atmosphere  free  of 
nitrogen  and  oxygen  can  be  maintained  in  the  furnace. 
The  hottest  part  of  the  flame  produced  by  a  Fisher  or 
similar  design  gas-air  mix  burner  is  proper  for  most 
sample-flux  mixtures.  If  a  high  carbon,  sulfide,  or  metaUic 
content  sample  is  being  fused,  it  is  usually  desirable  to 
begin  the  fusion  gently  in  case  the  sample  goes  into 
autofusion.  The  crucible  may  be  supported  on  a  wire 
triangle  over  the  flame  or  held  with  tongs,  depending  on 
the  analyst's  preference. 

Autofusion  occurs  when  the  sample-flux  reaction  is 
exothermic,  and  the  effect  can  range  from  barely  de- 
tectable to  explosive.  Any  sample  known  to  contain  a 
reduced  species  or  a  reducing  agent  should  be  fused  in 
sodium  peroxide  moderated  by  the  addition  of  anhydrous 
sodium  carbonate,  and  extra  care  must  be  taken  in  as- 
suring complete  mixing  of  the  sample  and  flux.  A  well- 
mixed  fusion  will  seldom  eject  material  from  the  crucible 


even  if  the  fusion  becomes  quite  active.  If  an  autofusion 
becomes  too  active  or  skyrockets,  remove  the  crucible 
from  over  the  burner  as  quickly  as  safety  will  allow.  Place 
or  hold  the  crucible  with  tongs  where  it  will  not  contami- 
nate any  other  work,  imtil  the  melt  solidifies,  and  then 
drop  the  crucible  into  a  large  beaker  or  a  sink  partially 
fiUed  with  water.  Allow  the  leaching  reaction  to  subside 
and  then  retrieve  the  crucible,  clean  it,  and  check  it  for 
damage. 

With  proper  care,  zirconium  crucibles  can  last  for  more 
than  100  fusions.  They  should  be  checked  before  their 
first  use  for  manufacturing  flaws  such  as  cracks  or  pits. 
During  normal  use,  the  bottom  of  the  crucible  is  the  part 
that  receives  the  most  severe  abuse  and  the  edge  of  the 
bottom  is  where  most  crucibles  fail.  As  the  crucible  is 
used  the  bottom  becomes  thinner,  and  when  it  is  thin 
enough  so  that  it  can  be  flexed  with  finger  pressure,  the 
crucible  should  be  checked  before  each  use  for  pinholes 
around  the  edge  of  the  bottom.  Discard  any  crucible  that 
has  a  pinhole;  the  thin  edge  of  a  pinhole  is  particularly 
susceptible  to  attack  by  sodium  peroxide.  Also,  do  not  use 
crucibles  with  thin  bottoms  to  fuse  samples  that  may  auto- 
fuse.  Extending  the  fusion  time  for  a  sample  increases 
the  attack  on  the  crucible,  which  in  turn  shortens  the  life 
of  the  crucible  and  increases  the  amount  of  zirconium  in- 
troduced into  the  sample.  In  general,  the  crucible  and  its 
contents  will  come  to  red  heat  within  about  3  min.  The 
melt  in  the  crucible  should  then  be  swirled  and  the  bottom 
examined  for  sample  particles.  The  fusion  is  assumed 
complete  when  no  more  sample  particles  can  be  found. 
Some  samples  are  not  so  easily  distinguished,  and  only  ex- 
perience with  that  sample  type  can  form  a  basis  forjudging 
completion. 

Sodium  peroxide  fusions  should  not  be  attempted  out- 
side a  fume  hood.  At  the  minimum,  an  operator  should 
wear  safety  glasses  and  a  lab  coat  or  apron.  Durable 
gloves  would  be  advisable  if  samples  known  to  be  prone  to 
autofusion  are  to  be  used. 


22 


APPENDIX  C.-NOTES  ON  SAMPLE  PREPARATION 


The  grind  size  or  mesh  size  of  the  sample  is  an  ahnost 
crucial  consideration  in  the  analysis  of  mineral  chromite, 
ferrochrome  slags,  and  ferrochrome  metal.  In  general, 
the  finer  the  sample  particle  size,  the  easier  it  will  be 
to  dissolve.  If  all  samples  could  be  ground  to  pass 
a  2(X)-mesh  screen,  nearly  all  of  the  dissolution  problems 
would  be  solved.  In  practice,  a  sample  ground  to  pass  a 
100-mesh  screen  will  present  little  in  the  way  of  problems, 
but  for  mineral  and  slag  samples  in  particular,  larger 


sample  particles  should  be  avoided.  Larger  sample 
particles  of  metal,  instead  of  being  harder  to  fuse,  are 
actually  easier  to  fuse  but  have  a  tendency  to  produce  hot 
spots  in  the  crucible  and  so  contribute  to  burnthrough. 
Larger  metal  particles,  of  course,  are  slower  to  dissolve  in 
acid  than  smellier  pcu^ticles.  As  a  general  rule,  any  sample 
ground  to  pass  a  100-mesh  screen  should  be  acceptable, 
and  any  sample  that  will  not  pass  a  60-mesh  screen  will 
present  problems  with  sample  decomposition. 


INT.BU.OF  MINES,PGH.,PA  29075 


■0 

m 

z 
> 

r- 

:l 
11 
o 

9 

"0 
X 
< 
> 
H 

m 

c 

m  </) 
I     CO 


&> 


3 
O 

> 

00 

c 

CO 

z 
m 


5m 

o  ^ 

Ss 

^  en 
<o 

00 

o 
o 


CD  C 

5  w 


O  "O 

ft 

<T>    3 


> 

z 
m 
O 

c 
> 

o 

"D 

O 

30 


m 

r— 
O 
■< 
m 

DO 


255    9 


.40*. 


a5°^ 


^o 


.-tOe. 


^^V"^         ^V'°-»*%^'^'^        \.**^^V'^         '^<J''--***V^        V'-^^^A^  "^^^^JS^.Q 

:^i^*^"^.    ..^\^:k-i:vV    y.:Siv%r^.    .v^\.'.o.X    .^^^^^*.\.      v^'.'r.^-."^ 


^0^ 


...»     <V  <^    'o.^*     .0^  "^5^ 


^^-^^ 


\^<,^' 


^         -  .  -  ~.  v;v      o  «  0  »        -O.'S' 


•*bv^ 


0^  V'^'^--y^         ^o^*^*^**/         V^^*>  %    *•-• 


^5>°- 


v„.*- 


0^     ...,%    """'    A^      ,.<.     -^^ 


HECKMAN 

BINDERY   INC. 


1990 


N.  MANCHESTER, 
5^5^  INDIANA  46962 


