library  of  congress 

MLCM 

2006/02417 

FT  MEADE 
GenCol 1 


PHYSICIAN 

PAYMENT 

REVIEW 

COMMISSION 

MONITORING 
ACCESS: 
REPORT  TO 
CONGRESS 


No.  91-5 


May  1991 


2120  L  Street,  NW 
Suite  510 

Washington,  DC  20037 
(202)  653-7220 
FAX  (202)  653-7238 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


MLCM 

2006/02417 


LC  Control  Number 


2002  435490 


PREFACE 


This  report  was  submitted  to  Congress  in  accordance  with  the  Commission’s  responsibility 
under  the  Omnibus  Reconciliation  Act  of  1989  to  comment  on  the  Department  of  Health 
and  Human  Services  Secretary’s  1991  report  to  Congress  on  "Monitoring  Changes  in  the 
Use  of,  Access  to,  and  Appropriateness  of  Part  B  Medicare  Services." 

Christopher  Hogan,  Ph.D.  and  Anne  Lenhard  Reisinger,  Ph.D.  were  the  Commission  staff 
members  principally  responsible  for  developing  this  report.  Michael  Millman,  Ph.D. 
provided  much  needed  advice  early  in  the  development  of  this  report.  The  Commission’s 
Advisory  Panel  on  Access  provided  invaluable  guidance  throughout  the  preparation  of  this 
report. 


l 


CONTENTS 


Preface  .  i 

Executive  Summary .  iii 

Monitoring  Access:  The  Commission’s  Report  to  Congress .  1 

Background .  1 

The  Secretary’s  1991  Report  .  2 

Recommendations  for  HHS  Action .  3 

Commission’s  Monitoring  Plans . 

Appendix  A:  Members  of  the  Advisory  Panel  on  Access .  10 

Appendix  B:  Draft  Workplan  on  Access  to  Care  .  11 

Background .  12 

Monitoring  Access:  The  Conceptual  Framework  .  15 

Technical  Notes  on  Measures  of  Access  .  20 

Technical  Notes  on  Sources  and  Uses 

of  Data  for  Monitoring  Access .  31 

Summary  and  Tentative  Workplan .  38 

Table  1:  Summary  of  Geographic  Areas,  Vulnerable  Populations, 

and  Measures  of  Access  . .  30 


EXECUTIVE  SUMMARY 


Maintaining  acceptable  levels  of  beneficiary  access  to  care  is  crucial  to  the  success  of 
Medicare  physician  payment  reform.  The  new  payment  system,  however  reasonable,  will 
not  be  judged  a  success  if  despite  gains  in  access  for  some  beneficiaries,  there  are 
deteriorations  for  others.  Thus,  adequate  monitoring  of  changes  in  beneficiary  access  to 
care  is  critical  to  the  successful  implementation  of  physician  payment  reform. 

The  Omnibus  Reconciliation  Act  of  1989  (OBRA89)  directs  the  Department  of  Health  and 
Human  Services  (HHS)  to  monitor  changes  in  the  utilization  of,  access  to,  and 
appropriateness  of  care.  The  HHS  Secretary  is  directed  to  submit  an  annual  report  on  the 
Department’s  findings  to  Congress.  OBRA89  also  directs  the  Physician  Payment  Review 
Commission  to  review  and  comment  on  the  Secretary’s  report. 

Monitoring  changes  in  beneficiary  utilization  of  and  access  to  care  under  payment  reform 
will  be  an  important  part  of  the  Commission’s  work  during  the  implementation  phase  of 
reform.  Thus,  in  addition  to  reviewing  the  HHS  plans,  the  Commission  is  developing  its 
own  plans  for  monitoring  and  analyzing  changes  in  utilization  and  access.  The 
Commission  has  convened  an  expert  Advisory  Panel  on  Access  to  assist  it  in  both  these 
tasks. 

On  May  2nd,  1991  the  HHS  Secretary  released  his  first  report  on  beneficiary  utilization 
and  access.  The  report  describes  existing  and  planned  data  systems  for  monitoring  changes 
in  utilization  and  access.  It  devotes  several  chapters  to  describing  the  HHS  plans  for 
measuring  and  analyzing  changes  in  the  utilization  of,  access  to,  and  appropriateness  of 
care.  It  also  discusses  possible  strategies  for  analyzing  and  monitoring  outcomes  of  care. 

The  Secretary’s  report  is  a  good  first  step  in  the  development  of  the  Department’s 
monitoring  plans.  HHS  has  undertaken  major  efforts  to  improve  the  timeliness  and 
accuracy  of  Medicare  claims  data.  The  Department  is  also  developing  new  data  systems 
that  will  provide  sorely  needed  information  for  tracking  changes  in  beneficiary  utilization 
and  access.  The  Commission  recommends  that  HHS: 

•  develop  a  standardized  system  for  the  timely  and  routine  release  of  public  data 
on  changes  in  the  utilization  of  and  access  to  care; 

•  take  steps  to  assure  the  availability  of  pre-reform  baseline  data  for  analysis;  and 

•  ensure  that  data  system  development  and  the  dissemination  of  data  proceed 
rapidly. 

Timely,  routinely  released  data  on  the  experience  of  beneficiaries  during  the 
implementation  of  payment  reform  will  be  needed  to  maintain  beneficiary  and  provider 
confidence  in  the  reform.  In  addition,  data  on  the  utilization  of  beneficiaries  before  the 


implementation  of  payment  reform  will  be  necessary  to  determine  if  the  reform  has  caused 
any  changes  in  utilization  or  access. 

The  Commission  further  recommends  that,  in  developing  its  plans  to  measure  changes  in 
utilization,  access,  and  appropriateness,  HHS: 

•  include  plans  to  measure  utilization  and  access  changes  during  the  first  year  of 
payment  reform  implementation;  and 

•  more  clearly  specify  its  plans  for  long-run  analyses  of  changes  in  utilization  and 
access. 

The  HHS  plans  currently  concentrate  on  analyzing  long-run  changes  over  the  course  of 
reform  implementation.  The  Commission  believes  that  it  is  imperative  that  the 
Department  track  utilization  and  access  changes  during  the  first  year  of  implementation. 
Further,  the  Commission  suggests  that  the  Department  refine  its  long-run  analytical  plans, 
including  a  special  focus  on  vulnerable  beneficiary  groups  and  measures  of  access 
appropriate  to  those  groups.  The  Commission’s  plans  for  monitoring  changes  in  utilization 
and  access  to  care,  outlined  in  Appendix  B  of  this  report,  could  be  used  as  a  guide  in 
developing  the  Department’s  plans. 


IV 


MONITORING  ACCESS: 

THE  COMMISSION’S 
REPORT  TO  CONGRESS 


BACKGROUND 

The  maintenance  of  acceptable  levels  of  access  to  care  is  crucial  to  the  success  of  Medicare 
physician  payment  reform.  Payment  reform  is  designed  to  replace  Medicare’s  method  of 
payment  based  on  customary,  prevailing,  and  reasonable  charges  (CPR)  with  a  more 
rational  and  equitable  pattern  of  payment.  Over  the  years,  the  CPR  method  resulted  in 
inequitable  payment  differentials  among  services,  localities,  and  physician  specialties.  The 
reform  will  replace  CPR  with  a  payment  method  that  should  ensure  beneficiary  access  to 
care,  maintain  financial  protection  for  beneficiaries,  increase  equity  among  physicians,  and 
constrain  the  growth  in  Medicare  spending. 

The  payment  reform  is  designed  to  achieve  its  goals  through  a  resource-based  fee 
schedule,  limits  on  balance  billing,  and  volume  performance  standards.  The  Medicare  Fee 
Schedule  will  help  to  ensure  beneficiary  access  to  care  and  increase  equity  among 
physicians  by  rationalizing  payments  for  physician  services.  Increases  in  payments  for 
primary  care  services  and  decreases  in  payments  for  surgical  and  technical  procedures  will 
reduce  payment  disparities  among  specialties  and  services.  By  reducing  geographic 
variations  in  physician  payment,  the  fee  schedule  will  reduce  payment  disparities  among 
localities.'  Reducing  these  payment  differentials  will  not  only  result  in  more  equitable 
treatment  of  physicians,  but  should  also  help  to  ensure  that  beneficiaries  will  have  more 
uniform  access  to  care.  By  limiting  balance  billing,  the  reform  will  provide  financial 
protection  for  beneficiaries.  Volume  performance  standards  will  constrain  spending 
growth. 

The  new  payment  system,  however  reasonable,  will  not  be  judged  a  success  if  despite  gains 
in  access  by  some,  there  are  deteriorations  for  others.  Thus,  adequate  monitoring  of 
changes  in  beneficiary  access  to  care  is  critical  to  the  successful  implementation  of 
physician  payment  reform. 

The  Omnibus  Reconciliation  Act  of  1989  (OBRA89)  directs  the  Secretary  of  the 
Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services  (HHS)  to  monitor  changes  in  beneficiary 
utilization  of  and  access  to  care  and  to  report  annually  to  Congress  on  its  findings.  The 
Secretary  is  to  report  on: 

•  changes  in  the  utilization  of  and  access  to  services,  by  geographic  area,  population 
category,  and  type  of  service;  and 


•  possible  sources  of  inappropriate  utilization,  and  factors  underlying  changes  in 
utilization  and  access,  including  factors  relating  to  different  services  and  to 
geographic  and  demographic  variations  in  utilization. 

In  addition,  the  Secretary  may  offer  recommendations  on:  measures  to  address  identified 
patterns  of  inappropriate  utilization,  improvements  in  utilization  review,  physician 
education  or  patient  education,  steps  to  address  any  problems  of  beneficiary  access  to  care 
made  evident  by  the  monitoring  process,  and  on  any  other  matters  that  the  Secretary 
deems  appropriate. 

The  Secretary  issued  his  first  report  to  Congress  on  May  2,  1991.  OBRA89  directs  the 
Commission  to  comment  on  the  HHS  report  when  it  is  issued  each  year.  The 
Commission’s  comments  were  developed  in  consultation  with  its  Advisory  Panel  on  Access. 

This  report  conveys  the  Commission’s  concerns  about  the  1991  HHS  plan  for  monitoring 
changes  in  the  utilization  of  and  access  to  care.  The  first  section  summarizes  the 
discussion  in  the  Secretary’s  1991  report.  The  next  section  discusses  the  Commission’s 
recommendations  for  action  by  HHS.  Finally,  the  report  discusses  the  Commission’s  role 
in  the  process  of  monitoring  changes  in  access  to  care. 


THE  SECRETARY’S  1991  REPORT 

The  HHS  report  emphasizes  the  importance  of  developing  data  systems  that  will  supply 
the  information  needed  to  monitor  changes  in  utilization  and  access.  Over  the  last  several 
years,  HHS  has  been  improving  upon  existing  data  systems  and  developing  data  systems. 
Recent  improvements  include:  standardized  definitions  for  Part  B  claims  data,  the  addition 
of  unique  physician  identifiers  to  claims  data,  improved  timeliness  and  accuracy  of  claims 
data  because  of  the  OBRA89  requirement  for  direct  submission  of  claims  by  physicians, 
and  the  development  of  the  National  Claims  History  System  (NCH).  Each  of  these 
developments  should  improve  the  accuracy  and  timeliness  of  Medicare  claims  data. 

Data  systems  under  development  by  HHS  include  the  Current  Beneficiary  Survey  (CBS), 
the  Uniform  Clinical  Data  Set  (UCDS),  and  the  Medicare  Beneficiary  Health  Status 
Registry  (Registry).  The  CBS  is  a  longitudinal  survey  of  a  large  sample  of  Medicare 
beneficiaries.  It  will  gather  information  on  the  beneficiaries’  utilization  of  and 
expenditures  for  medical  services,  health  status  and  functioning,  as  well  as  the 
beneficiaries’  satisfaction  with  and  perceptions  of  problems  in  gaining  access  to  care.  In 
addition,  the  CBS  will  be  linked  to  Medicare  claims  files,  making  available  detailed  data 
on  actual  utilization.  The  Registry  is  a  proposed  longitudinal  data  base  that  would  include 
a  beneficiary  survey  and  claims  files  which  would  allow  tracking  of  the  utilization  and 
health  status  of  a  sample  of  beneficiaries  for  several  years  after  the  time  of  entrance  into 
the  Medicare  program. 


2 


The  HHS  report  first  discusses  the  Department’s  proposed  efforts  to  track  changes  in 
beneficiary  utilization.  HHS  plans  to  track  changes  in  overall  volume,  changes  in  the 
volume  and  mix  of  services  across  areas,  changes  in  the  use  of  specific  types  of  services, 
and  changes  for  special  population  groups.  The  report  also  discusses  the  problems  and 
issues  with  interpreting  these  volume  changes. 

It  goes  on  to  outline  the  Department’s  plans  for  analyzing  changes  in  access  to  care.  HHS 
plans  to  center  its  analyses  around  measures  of  barriers  that  beneficiaries  encounter  in 
attempting  to  use  services  and  the  extent  to  which  beneficiaries  receive  medically  necessary 
care.  The  CBS  will  be  the  major  source  of  information  on  barriers  to  care.  Claims  data 
will  be  used  to  analyze  patterns  and  changes  in  the  receipt  of  medically  necessary  care. 

The  HHS  report  discusses  the  Department’s  approach  to  monitoring  changes  in  the 
appropriateness  of  care.  It  notes  that  monitoring  appropriateness  will  require  the 
development  of  guidelines  for  appropriate  care  and  measuring  Medicare  beneficiary  use 
against  those  guidelines.  HHS  plans  to  rely  on  organizations  such  as  the  Agency  for 
Health  Care  Policy  and  Research  as  a  source  of  practice  guidelines.  The  HHS  Health 
Standards  and  Quality  Bureau,  through  Peer  Review  Organizations  (PRO),  will  do  the 
monitoring  of  appropriateness  of  care.  The  Department  will  attempt  analyze  whether  any 
trends  in  appropriateness  are  caused  by  payment  reform. 

Finally,  the  report  outlines  the  Department’s  long-term  approach  to  monitoring  changes 
in  the  outcomes  of  medical  care  that  beneficiaries  receive.  The  Department’s  analyses  will 
center  around  three  important  outcomes  of  care:  functional  status,  the  need  for  follow-up 
care,  and  survival.  Claims  data,  the  CBS,  PRO  data  and  the  Registry  will  supply  the 
information  for  the  Department’s  analyses. 


RECOMMENDATIONS  FOR  HHS  ACTION 

Monitoring  of  changes  in  beneficiary  utilization  of  and  access  to  care  under  physician 
payment  reform  will  be  a  vital  HHS  function  in  coming  years.  While  the  Department’s 
is  developing  data  systems  that  will  collect  timely  and  usable  information,  the  Commission 
recommends  that  HHS: 

•  develop  a  standardized  system  for  the  routine  release  of  public  data  on  changes 
in  utilization  of  and  access  to  care; 

•  take  steps  to  assure  the  availability  of  baseline  data  for  analysis;  and 

•  ensure  that  data  system  development  and  the  dissemination  of  data  proceed 
rapidly. 

The  Commission  further  recommends  that,  in  developing  its  plans  to  measure  changes  in 
utilization,  access,  and  appropriateness,  HHS: 


3 


•  develop  plans  to  measure  utilization  and  access  changes  during  the  first  year  of 
payment  reform  implementation;  and 

•  refine  its  plans  for  long-run  analyses  of  changes  in  utilization  and  access,  including 
a  special  focus  on  vulnerable  beneficiary  groups  and  measures  of  access 
appropriate  to  those  groups. 

The  following  section  discusses  the  Commission’s  recommendations  in  more  detail. 

Data  Systems 

Timely  and  accurate  data  on  the  utilization  experience  of  Medicare  beneficiaries  will  be 
vital  to  the  success  of  efforts  to  measure  changes  in  access  to  care  under  physician 
payment  reform.  HHS  has  made  large  strides  toward  developing  data  systems  that  will 
produce  detailed  utilization  data  in  a  timely  fashion.  New  data  sources  being  developed 
by  HHS  such  as  the  Current  Beneficiary  Survey,  the  National  Claims  History  System,  the 
Medicare  Beneficiary  Health  Status  Registry,  and  the  Uniform  Clinical  Data  Set  will  be 
important  sources  of  information  on  the  utilization  patterns  of  Medicare  beneficiaries. 

These  new  data  sources  will  provide  much  more  detailed  utilization  data  than  is  currently 
available.  The  CBS  will  provide  information  on  beneficiary  perceptions  of  changes  in 
access  to  care.  Linked  to  both  Part  A  and  Part  B  claims  files  in  the  NCH  through  the 
Common  Working  File  (CWF),  the  CBS  will  also  allow  tracking  of  the  actual  utilization 
experience  of  respondents.  The  UCDS  will  allow  detailed  clinical  analyses  of  the  medical 
treatment  beneficiaries  receive.  The  Registry  should  allow  tracking  of  changes  in  health 
status  and  utilization  for  a  cohort  of  beneficiaries  from  the  time  of  entrance  into  the 
program. 

The  new  data  systems  will  also  make  data  available  much  more  quickly  than  it  is  currently. 
The  CBS  data  should  become  available  for  analysis  4-6  months  after  the  completion  of  a 
round  of  data  collection.  The  CWF  claims  authorization  process  will  reduce  the  lag 
between  the  time  a  claim  is  paid  and  when  the  record  of  the  claim  becomes  available  for 
analysis  from  a  year  or  more  to  close  to  half  a  year.  The  HHS  efforts  to  develop  more 
timely  data  systems  are  laudable.  HHS  should  do  all  it  can  to  keep  up  this  momentum  to 
get  these  data  systems  fully  operational. 

There  are,  however,  two  major  problems  with  the  current  data  system  plans.  First,  in 
order  to  assure  the  timely  release  of  data  to  the  public,  HHS  should  develop  a 
standardized  data  reporting  system.  Additionally,  gauging  the  effects  of  payment  reform 
on  access  will  require  the  availability  of  data  on  the  experience  of  beneficiaries  in  the 
period  prior  to  the  implementation  of  reform. 

Standardized  Reporting  System.  The  public  release  of  data  on  changes  in  access  is 
important  to  maintaining  beneficiary  and  provider  confidence  in  the  payment  reform. 


4 


Beneficiary  groups,  physician  organizations  and  independent  researchers  concerned  with 
changes  in  access  should  be  able  to  obtain  data  with  which  to  examine  improvements  or 
deteriorations  in  access  under  payment  reform.  The  HHS  plans  do  not  include 
mechanisms  for  assuring  that  data  is  released  routinely  to  the  public.  To  facilitate  the 
timely  release  of  public  data,  HHS  should  develop  a  standardized  series  of  regularly 
released  reports  on  measures  of  beneficiary  access  to  care.1  This  information  should  be 
released  in  forms  that  are  relevant  to  the  issues  being  analyzed.  The  reports  should 
include  changes  in  utilization  and  measures  of  access  to  care  by  geographic  area  and  for 
potentially  vulnerable  segments  of  the  beneficiary  population. 

Public  issuance  of  these  data  should  be  more  frequent  than  the  Secretary’s  annual  report 
to  Congress.  While  the  Secretary’s  annual  report  should  include  the  Department’s 
interpretation  of  these  data,  more  frequent  public  release  of  this  information  will  allow 
other  interested  parties  to  interpret  these  data  as  well. 

Baseline  Data.  The  HHS  discussion  of  data  systems  does  not  recognize  the  importance 
of  developing  good  baseline  data  for  the  period  prior  to  implementation  of  payment 
reform  in  January  1992.  The  Medicare  Fee  Schedule  will  be  a  significant  change  in 
Medicare  payment  policy,  and  about  one-third  of  the  total  change  payment  levels  will 
occur  in  the  first  year  of  implementation.  Information  on  the  period  prior  to  the  first 
implementation  year  will  be  necessary  to  measure  changes  in  access  to  care  due  to 
payment  reform. 

According  to  the  HHS  report,  the  first  round  of  CBS  data  collection  will  not  begin  until 
1992,  rather  than  in  1991  as  originally  planned.  HHS  staff  have  subsequently  indicated, 
however,  that  the  report  was  in  error  and  that  data  collection  will  begin  in  the  Fall  of  1991. 
Because  of  the  need  for  baseline  data  to  evaluate  the  effects  of  payment  reform,  the 
Commission  considers  it  imperative  that  the  first  round  of  data  collection  of  the  CBS  begin 
on  schedule  in  the  fall  of  this  year. 

Baseline  claims  data  for  the  period  before  1992  will  also  be  needed  to  assess  changes  in 
access.  To  measure  the  effects  of  the  changes,  it  will  be  important  to  compare  utilization 
patterns  from  claims  data  for  years  prior  to  1992  with  the  patterns  in  1992  and  beyond. 
To  facilitate  the  development  of  information  on  the  pre-1992  experience,  HHS  should 
release  1990  and  1991  claims  data  as  soon  as  possible. 

Timeliness  of  Data.  In  addition  to  the  data  system  problems  identified  above,  the 
Commission  wishes  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  timely  release  of  data  from  Medicare 
claims  files,  the  CBS,  the  Registry  and  the  UCDS.  The  Department  should  make  every 


1  The  routine  reporting  of  labor  statistics  from  the  Bureau  of  Labor  Statistics  is  an  analog  for  this  type  of  data 
reporting. 


5 


effort  to  see  that  the  time  between  data  collection  and  the  dissemination  of  data  to  the 
Commission  and  other  researchers  is  minimal 

Measuring  And  Analyzing  Changes  In  The  Utilization  Of  And  Access  To  Care 

The  HHS  report  includes  no  plans  for  short-run  (ie.  during  1992)  monitoring  of  changes 
in  access  and  lacks  detail  on  the  Department’s  analytical  approach  to  long-run  analyses  of 
access  to  care.  It  is  imperative  that  HHS  attempt  to  monitor  changes  in  beneficiary  access 
during  the  first  year  of  payment  reform.  Both  short  and  long  run  analyses  will  require 
consideration  of  the  beneficiary  groups  whose  access  to  care  may  be  affected  by  payment 
reform  and  appropriate  measures  of  access  to  care. 

Short-run  Analyses.  Physician  payment  reform  could  cause  significant  changes  in  the 
levels  of  payment  for  various  types  of  physician  services.  Under  the  Medicare  Fee 
Schedule,  payments  for  evaluation  and  management  services,  on  average,  will  rise  while 
payments  for  surgical  and  technical  procedures  will  fall.  Payments  will  typically  increase 
in  rural  areas  and  fall  in  urban  areas.  Payment  levels  could  change  quite  substantially. 
When  the  Medicare  Fee  Schedule  is  fully  implemented,  fees  for  many  surgical  and 
technical  procedures  will  fall  roughly  30  percent,  while  fees  for  primary  care  services  will 
rise  roughly  30  percent.  At  the  same  time,  physicians’  ability  to  bill  beneficiaries  for  the 
balance  of  their  charge  will  be  substantially  limited.  By  1993,  balance  billing  for  any 
service  will  be  limited  to  just  over  9  percent  of  the  fee  schedule  amount  for  participating 
physicians.  Despite  the  balance  billing  limit,  beneficiary  copayments  could  rise  for  services, 
like  primary  care,  that  will  increase  under  the  Medicare  Fee  Schedule. 

Since  the  Medicare  Fee  Schedule  will  be  phased  in  over  a  number  of  years,  only  part  of 
the  payment  shifts  will  occur  in  the  first  year  of  implementation.  Approximately  one-third 
of  the  total  change  in  payment  rates  will  occur  in  1992,  however,  more  than  in  any  other 
single  year.  These  first-year  payment  level  changes  are  anticipated  to  be  particularly  large 
for  some  services.  If  these  changes  in  physician  payment  or  in  beneficiary  liability  for  the 
balance  of  the  physician  bill  cause  changes  in  access  to  care,  these  effects  may  well  appear 
during  the  first  year  of  implementation  and  could  continue  to  develop  over  the  full  course 
of  implementation.  It  will  be  important,  therefore,  to  monitor  any  changes  in  beneficiary 
access  to  care  during  1992  as  well  as  changes  that  occur  over  the  entire  implementation 
period. 

The  HHS  monitoring  plans  concentrate  primarily  on  the  long-run  analysis  of  access 
changes.  HHS  should  be  developing  plans  to  measure  any  changes  in  access  that  occur 
during  the  initial  phase  of  payment  reform  implementation.  While  it  may  be  difficult  in 
the  first  year  to  pinpoint  with  any  surety  access  changes  due  to  payment  reform,  HHS 
should  attempt  to  track  major  changes  or  problem  areas  during  the  first  year.  Early 
identification  of  significant  problems  will  allow  for  refinement  of  the  policy  before  it  is 
fully  implemented. 


6 


The  data  required  to  monitor  short-run  changes  in  access  to  care  should  be  readily 
available  to  HHS.  Claims  data  through  the  CWF  will  be  available  routinely  throughout 
1992.  HHS  could  identify  geographic  areas  or  procedures  with  the  largest  payment 
changes  and  track  utilization  changes  through  the  claims  data.  It  could  also  identify 
potentially  vulnerable  beneficiary  groups  and  track  their  utilization  experience  during  1992. 
Claims  data  from  prior  years  would  provide  a  baseline  against  which  to  gauge 
improvements  or  deteriorations  in  access  to  care.  Information  from  the  first  round  of  the 
CBS  could  also  point  to  potential  problem  areas  or  beneficiary  groups.  In  addition  to 
these  large  data  sets,  the  Department  could  consider  other  sources  of  information  on 
short-run  changes  in  access.  Beneficiary  focus  groups  and  surveys  of  carriers,  for  example, 
might  help  to  identify  short-run  access  problems. 

Long-run  Analyses.  HHS’s  long  run  monitoring  plans  could  be  considerably  improved  with 
a  more  detailed  consideration  of  measures  of  access  to  care  and  approaches  to  analyzing 
changes  in  access.  The  HHS  report  identifies  three  "definitions"  of  access:  "measures  of 
financial  aspects  surrounding  access  to  care,  ...the  nature  and  prevalence  of  barriers  to 
securing  care,...  [and]  whether  beneficiaries  receive  medically  necessary  services."  The 
report  briefly  discusses  several  strategies  for  analyzing  changes  in  these  measures  of  access. 

As  the  HHS  report  recognizes,  access  is  not  easily  definable  and  is  thus  not  easily 
measurable.  HHS’s  three  definitions  of  access  to  care  could  be  operationalized  in  a 
number  of  different  ways.  The  Commission,  with  the  advice  of  its  Advisory  Panel  on 
Access  has  developed  a  list  of  measures  that  HHS  should  consider  using  in  its  analyses 
(see  Appendix  B). 

HHS’s  analytical  strategies  for  monitoring  changes  in  access  to  care  also  need  more 
development.2  As  the  Commission’s  workplan  described  in  the  next  section  and  in 
Appendix  B  illustrates,  a  number  of  approaches  to  measuring  changes  in  beneficiary  access 
to  care  could  potentially  yield  valuable  information  on  changes  in  access.  In  particular,  the 
Commission  recommends  that  HHS  consider  focusing  analyses  on  potentially  vulnerable 
groups  of  beneficiaries. 


COMMISSION’S  MONITORING  PLANS 

Monitoring  changes  in  beneficiary  utilization  of  and  access  to  care  under  payment  reform 
will  be  an  important  part  of  the  Commission’s  work  during  the  implementation  phase  of 
reform.  Thus,  the  Commission  is  developing  its  own  plans  for  monitoring  and  analyzing 
changes  in  utilization  and  access. 


2  The  report  states  that  "part  of  HCFA’s  research  agenda  in  access  to  care  is  described  in  a  forthcoming  grant 
announcement."  The  grant  announcement  may  contain  more  detail  on  the  HHS  plans. 


7 


The  Commission’s  initial  monitoring  and  analysis  activities  will  focus  on  changes  in 
utilization  and  access  rather  than  on  appropriateness.  The  Commission  has  chosen  this 
strategy  in  the  belief  that  during  the  initial  years  of  payment  reform  implementation, 
deteriorations  and  improvements  in  access  to  care  are  of  principal  concern  and  are  more 
measurable  than  changes  in  outcomes  or  appropriateness  of  care.  Analyses  of  changes  in 
appropriateness  and  outcomes  are  important  and  may  be  included  in  later  phases  of  the 
Commission’s  workplan,  but  they  require  information  on  patterns  of  care  across  long  time 
periods. 

OBRA89  required  that  the  Commission  consult  with  a  panel  of  experts  in  commenting  on 
the  Secretary’s  report.  The  Commission  convened  a  panel  of  highly  knowledgeable 
individuals  including  physicians,  beneficiary  representatives,  and  health  services  researchers 
(see  list  of  members  of  the  Advisory  Panel  on  Access  in  Appendix  1).  The  Commission 
saw  the  value  of  making  broader  use  of  this  group,  not  just  to  comment  annually  on  the 
Secretary’s  report,  but  to  advise  on  the  Commission’s  workplan  in  this  area. 

In  February  1991,  the  Advisory  Panel  on  Access  began  working  with  Commission  staff  to 
develop  plans  to  monitor  and  analyze  changes  in  access.  The  Commission’s  workplan 
includes  both  short-run  (during  the  first  year  of  payment  reform  implementation)  and 
longer-run  analyses.  The  Panel  helped  to  identify  potentially  useful  measures  of  access  to 
care  and  strategies  for  tracking  changes  in  those  measures.  The  Commission’s  workplan, 
summarized  briefly  below,  is  discussed  in  more  detail  in  Appendix  B. 

The  Commission  analyses  will  employ  a  number  of  different  measures  of  access.  For 
example,  access  will  be  measured  by  the  use  of  primary  care  and  preventive  services. 
Measures  of  primary  care  use  include  physician  visit  rates,  the  number  of  home  visits,  the 
ratio  of  outpatient  visits  to  hospitalizations,  and  emergency  room  visits.  The  use  of 
preventive  services  such  as  mammography  and  immunizations  will  also  provide  a  measure 
of  access  to  care.  Another  possible  measure  of  access  relies  on  sentinel  events,  health  care 
incidents  that  either  should  not  occur  or  should  occur  only  rarely  if  beneficiaries  have 

timely  access  to  adequate  primary  care.3  The  stage  of  disease  at  first  treatment  and 

* 

mortality  may  also  be  indicators  of  access. 

Several  areas  of  analysis  will  center  around  measures  of  provider  activity  or  provider 
behavior,  since  beneficiary  access  may  be  affected  by  physician  responses  to  changes  in 
fees  under  the  Medicare  Fee  Schedule.  For  example,  changes  in  Medicare  payment  rates 
could  cause  physicians  to  limit  the  number  of  Medicare  patients  that  they  treat. 
Therefore,  changes  in  the  concentration  of  Medicare  visits  among  physicians  may  be  an 
indicator  of  changes  in  access.  The  number  of  beneficiaries  changing  physicians  might  be 
an  additional  indicator  of  physician  willingness  to  serve  Medicare  beneficiaries.  Also, 


3  Hospitalization  with  uncontrolled  diabetes  is  an  example. 


8 


increased  use  of  public  hospital  facilities  by  Medicare  beneficiaries  may  be  an  indicator 
of  reduced  access  to  private  physicians. 

Some  of  the  monitoring  of  changes  in  access  will  center  on  potentially  vulnerable  groups 
of  beneficiaries.  For  example,  analyses  will  track  changes  in  access  for  beneficiaries  with 
few  financial  resources.  These  beneficiaries  include  those  without  supplemental  coverage 
(Medigap)  and  low-income  beneficiaries.  Approximately  20  percent  of  beneficiaries  have 
neither  Medicaid  coverage  nor  Medigap  insurance.  Qualified  Medicare  Beneficiaries 
(QMBs),  those  beneficiaries  whose  cost  sharing  amounts  are  paid  by  Medicaid  but  who 
receive  no  other  Medicaid  services,  could  be  adversely  affected  by  changes  in  physician 
payment.  Dual  eligibles,  beneficiaries  receiving  both  Medicare  and  Medicaid,  may  also 
face  new  barriers  to  access. 

The  Commission  will  also  track  those  beneficiaries  with  special  medical  needs  or  that  are 
difficult  for  physicians  to  care  for.  Special  attention  will  be  given  to  monitoring  access  for 
the  institutionalized,  the  mentally  and  physically  disabled,  and  the  very  elderly. 


9 


APPENDIX  A 

MEMBERS  OF  THE  ADVISORY  PANEL  ON  ACCESS 


Perham  Amsden 

American  Association  of  Retired  Persons 

Robert  Blendon,  Sc.D. 

Harvard  School  of  Public  Health 

Geraldine  Dallek 
Medicare  Advocacy  Project 

Charles  H.  Epps,  M.D. 

Howard  University  College  of  Medicine 

Lynn  Etheredge 

Independent  Consultant,  Washington,  D.C. 

Harold  P.  Freeman,  M.D. 

Harlem  Hospital  Center 

Lucian  Leape,  M.D. 

Harvard  School  of  Public  Health 

Stephen  H.  Long,  Ph.D. 

RAND  Corporation 

Nicole  Lurie,  M.D. 

Department  of  Medicine 
Hennepin  County  Medical  Center 

Ira  Moscovice,  Ph.D. 

School  of  Public  Health 
University  of  Minnesota 

Martin  F.  Shapiro,  M.D. 

UCLA  School  of  Medicine 

Barbara  Yawn,  M.D. 

Private  Practice  of  Medicine,  Rochester,  MN 


10 


APPENDIX  B 

DRAFT  WORKPLAN  ON  ACCESS  TO  CARE 


BACKGROUND 


The  Physician  Payment  Review  Commission’s  Advisory  Panel  on  Access  was  convened  to 
help  the  Commission  develop  comments  on  the  Secretary  of  Health  and  Human  Services’ 
report  on  utilization,  access,  and  quality.  To  achieve  this  end,  the  Commission  asked  its 
Panel  on  Access  to  outline  a  feasible  system  for  monitoring  changes  in  beneficiaries’  access 
to  care.  The  Panel  met  on  February  15,  1991  and  suggested  a  number  of  approaches  in 
this  area.  At  a  second  meeting  on  April  22,  1991  the  Panel  refined  a  workplan  for 
monitoring  access  to  care. 

This  appendix  summarizes  the  Commission’s  draft  workplan  for  monitoring  access  to  care. 
It  brings  together  both  a  conceptual  framework  and  detailed  technical  information  on 
HCFA  data  processing  systems  and  on  the  calculation  of  various  indicators  of  access.  In 
addition,  it  presents  options  for  monitoring  changes  in  Medicare  beneficiaries’  access  to 
care  using  data  that  are  collected  currently  or  will  be  routinely  collected  beginning  in  1992. 


MONITORING  ACCESS:  THE  CONCEPTUAL  FRAMEWORK 

When  considering  how  to  measure  access,  the  Panel  favored  an  approach  of  monitoring 
trends  in  various  access  measures  for  very  tightly  defined  populations.  Broadly-based 
aggregate  utilization  statistics  are  insufficient  for  detecting  changes  in  access  to  care. 
Monitoring  must  focus  on  the  types  of  individuals  and  geographic  areas  that  are  most 
vulnerable  to  reductions  in  access  or  that  are  most  in  need  of  increased  access  to  care. 
Measures  of  access  to  care  must  be  as  specific  as  possible. 

In  considering  when  to  monitor  access,  the  Panel  suggested  a  two-pronged  strategy.  First, 
some  means  to  monitor  access  should  be  in  place  prior  to  January  1,  1992.  This  will 
assure  timely  response  to  any  problems  that  may  develop,  and  may  provide  much-needed 
objective  data  during  the  early  implementation  of  Part  B  payment  reform.  However,  more 
refined  measures  of  access  should  be  developed  in  later  years  as  better  and  more 
comprehensive  data  become  available. 

In  considering  who  should  monitor  access,  the  Panel  had  fewer  substantive 
recommendations.  The  Health  Care  Financing  Administration  (HCFA)  has  the  most 
direct  use  of  Medicare  claims  and  other  files.  The  Commission  strongly  endorses  the 
timely  public  release  of  utilization  and  access  statistics  by  HCFA.  This  will  allow  all 
interested  parties  to  track  developments  in  beneficiary  access  to  care.  Finally,  the 
Commission  will  undertake  its  own  research  on  beneficiary  access  to  care  based  on  HCFA 
administrative  data  and  other  data  sources. 


TECHNICAL  NOTES  ON  MEASURES  OF  ACCESS 

The  Panel’s  approach  to  monitoring  access  is  based  on  comparing  trends  in  utilization 
across  various  populations  and  geographic  areas.  The  Panel  identified  the  specific 


12 


geographic  areas,  vulnerable  populations,  and  measures  of  utilization  most  relevant  to 
monitoring  access.  Many  of  these  access  measures  may  feasibly  be  tracked  using  HCFA 
administrative  data,  but  others  may  require  special  data  collection  efforts. 

The  geographic  areas  of  interest  are  of  two  types:  areas  in  which  fees  are  low  or  falling, 
and  areas  in  which  financial  or  health  care  resources  are  already  stretched  thin. 
Identification  of  the  first  type  of  area  is  fairly  straightforward  using  Medicare  and  private- 
sector  claims  files.  Identification  of  the  second  type  of  area  may  sometimes  be  more 
difficult.  In  particular,  inner  city  areas  and  Health  Professional  Shortage  Areas  (HPSAs) 
are  based  on  small  and  diverse  geographic  units  and  will  require  considerable  effort  to 
identify. 

Vulnerable  populations  are  again  of  two  distinct  types:  those  with  few  financial  resources, 
and  those  with  special  health  care  needs.  It  is  possible  to  identify  the  elderly  poor  and 
near-poor  beneficiaries  when  states  purchase  Part  B  coverage  on  their  behalf,  for 
example,  dual  eligible  Medicare/Medicaid  beneficiaries  and  Qualified  Medicare 
Beneficiaries.  However,  HCFA  administrative  data  may  not  allow  other  financially 
vulnerable  populations,  such  as  those  without  Medigap  coverage,  to  be  identified. 
Beneficiaries  with  special  health  care  needs  include  the  institutionalized,  the  mentally  and 
physically  disabled,  persons  with  end  stage  renal  disease  (ESRD),  and  the  very  elderly. 
Most  of  these  populations  could  be  adequately  tracked  using  administrative  files  and  Social 
Security  Administration  data. 

Tightly-targeted  measures  of  access  can  be  constructed  from  several  types  of  utilization 
data.  First,  clinically-based  utilization  measures  may  indicate  the  presence  of  access 
barriers.  Hospitalization  for  certain  "sentinel  events",  presence  of  advanced  stages  of  a 
disease,  and  excess  mortality  may  all  indicate  inadequate  primary  care.  Other  utilization 
measures  indicate  good  access  to  care,  including  the  use  of  primary  care  and  preventive 
services.  All  of  these  measures  are  fairly  easy  to  calculate  from  Medicare  administrative 
data. 

Other  measures  center  around  providers  rather  than  beneficiaries.  Public  urban  hospitals 
and  clinics  are  generally  thought  to  be  providers  of  last  resort  for  many  populations. 
Hence,  a  shift  of  beneficiary  care  to  these  settings  could  signal  difficulty  in  receiving  care 
in  private  physician  offices.  Similarly,  an  increased  concentration  of  Medicare  services 
among  fewer  physicians  might  indicate  reduced  access  to  mainstream  health  care. 
However,  tracking  the  number  of  physicians  serving  Medicare  beneficiaries  appears 
difficult  prior  to  1992. 


TECHNICAL  NOTES  ON  SOURCES  AND  USES  OF  DATA 

In  the  short  run,  the  principal  source  of  timely  data  is  HCFA’s  core  claims  file,  the 
Common  Working  File  (CWF).  The  CWF  is  a  new  claims  processing  system  that  captures 
all  Part  B  physician  services  claims  in  a  single  centralized  location.  Extracts  from  this  file 
could  be  used  immediately  to  calculate  access  measures  based  on  service  utilization. 
Alternatively,  special-purpose  surveys  of  beneficiaries  or  physicians  might  be  commissioned 
during  the  early  stages  of  implementation  of  physician  payment  reform. 


13 


Over  the  longer  term,  many  additional  sources  of  data  become  available.  Part  B  Medicare 
Annual  Data  (BMAD)  files  summarize  a  year’s  worth  of  claims  activity,  and  could  be  used 
in  much  the  same  way  as  the  CWF.  In  addition,  national  surveys  of  beneficiaries  and 
physicians  may  be  used  to  look  at  access  issues  directly.  Finally,  several  significant  sources 
of  non-Medicare  data  may  be  available  for  tracking  utilization  trends  in  the  non-Medicare 
population.  Divergences  between  Medicare  and  non-Medicare  utilization  could  signal  a 
loss  of  access  by  beneficiaries. 


SUMMARY  AND  TENTATIVE  WORKPLAN 

The  Commission’s  first  priority  is  to  develop  feasible  access  measures  that  may  be 
implemented  prior  to  1992.  Given  the  limited  time  frame,  monitoring  should  probably 
focus  on  readily  available  HCFA  claims  data  sets  consisting  of  Part  B  claims  for  the 
standard  5  percent  beneficiary  sample,  and  Part  A  inpatient  claims  for  all  beneficiaries. 
Several  years  of  these  files  are  available,  allowing  the  various  measures  of  access  to  care 
to  be  tested  on  historical  data. 

The  Commission  will  also  consider  available  survey  information  and  will  consider  fielding 
its  own  survey  of  beneficiaries.  While  perhaps  less  precise  than  claims-based  analysis, 
surveys  could  directly  address  questions  of  access  to  care  in  a  timely  fashion. 

Finally,  the  Commission  reiterates  its  belief  that  HCFA  should  routinely  report  detailed 
Part  A  and  Part  B  utilization  statistics  in  a  manner  that  will  allow  other  interested  parties 
to  assess  changes  in  beneficiaries’  access  to  care.  A  common  set  of  data  available  to  all 
would  enhance  dialogue  on  beneficiaries’  access  to  care  and  preserve  confidence  in  the 
Medicare  program. 


14 


MONITORING  ACCESS: 
THE  CONCEPTUAL  FRAMEWORK 


Three  broad  strategic  areas  need  to  be  addressed  in  monitoring  the  access  impacts  of 
physician  payment  reform.  First,  how  should  access  to  care  be  measured?  Second,  when 
should  it  be  measured,  in  the  short  run  or  in  the  long  run?  Finally,  who  should  be 
responsible  for  monitoring  changes  in  access? 


HOW  TO  MEASURE  ACCESS  TO  CARE:  AREAS,  POPULATIONS,  AND  MEASURES 

The  Panel  suggested  monitoring  access  by  tracking  trends  in  utilization  across  populations 
and  geographic  areas.  Populations  or  areas  most  vulnerable  to  reductions  in  access  will 
be  contrasted  to  populations  and  areas  in  which  access  problems  are  unlikely  to  develop. 
Declines  in  access  measures  for  those  most  at  risk  relative  to  those  least  at  risk  would  be 
a  warning  that  beneficiaries  may  be  having  a  greater  difficulty  obtaining  adequate  care. 

This  approach  requires  that  the  areas,  populations,  and  measures  be  as  tightly  defined  as 
possible.  Access  is  likely  to  deteriorate  first  for  small  subsets  of  the  population  or  for 
specific  types  of  medical  care.  For  example,  problems  may  be  more  likely  to  arise  in  those 
geographic  areas  having  the  steepest  fee  reductions.  Within  those  areas,  the  impact  might 
be  most  strongly  felt  by  beneficiaries  with  exceptional  needs,  such  as  the  home-bound, 
institutionalized,  or  mentally  disabled.  For  these  beneficiiaries,  reductions  might  first 
appear  in  specialty  services.  A  broad-based,  untargeted  approach  to  monitoring  access 
might  never  detect  these  deteriorations  in  access  or  might  detect  changes  only  after 
substantial  problems  had  already  developed. 

Because  such  a  narrowly  targeted  approach  is  called  for,  the  Panel  identified  specific 
geographic  areas,  vulnerable  populations,  and  measures  of  access.  These  are  outlined 
briefly  here,  and  in  more  detail  in  a  later  section  of  this  appendix. 

Geographic  Areas 

The  panel  identified  a  number  of  geographic  areas  that  should  be  studied  separately.  First 
and  most  obviously,  areas  where  Medicare  rates  will  be  substantially  below  private  sector 
rates,  and  areas  where  Medicare  rates  will  fall  most  substantially  should  be  analyzed 
separately.  Physicians  in  these  areas  will  have  the  lowest  financial  incentives  to  serve 
Medicare  beneficiaries.  Second,  areas  with  physician  shortages,  such  as  Health 
Professional  Shortage  Areas  (HPSAs)  should  be  given  particular  attention.  Finally,  inner 
city  areas  and  frontier  rural  areas  generally  suffer  both  from  poverty  and  from  a  lack  of 
providers,  and  so  would  be  most  vulnerable  to  reductions  in  access  if  even  a  few  physicians 
became  reluctant  to  treat  Medicare  beneficiaries. 


15 


Vulnerable  Populations 


The  Panel  identified  several  vulnerable  populations  that  should  be  the  focus  of  monitoring 
efforts.  One  such  population  consists  of  beneficiaries  who  have  limited  ability  to  pay  for 
services.  This  includes  beneficiaries  without  supplemental  coverage  (often  referred  to  as 
Medigap),  and  low-income  beneficiaries,  including  Qualified  Medicare  Beneficiaries 
(QMBs)  and  beneficiaries  receiving  both  Medicare  and  Medicaid.  A  second  vulnerable 
population  consists  of  beneficiaries  with  complex  or  ongoing  medical  needs,  individuals 
who  may  be  more  difficult  or  less  remunerative  for  physicians  to  treat.  This  population 
includes  the  institutionalized,  the  mentally  and  physically  disabled,  persons  with  end  stage 
renal  disease  (ESRD),  and  the  very  elderly. 

Measures  Of  Access 

The  panel  suggested  several  approaches  to  measuring  changes  in  access  to  care  for  these 
target  populations.  One  such  approach  was  the  incidence  of  sentinel  events,  which  are 
medical  events  which  should  happen  only  rarely  if  beneficiaries  are  receiving  adequate 
care.  For  example,  hospitalizations  for  diabetes  and  hypertension  might  indicate 
insufficient  primary  care  and  outpatient  management.  A  second  measure  was  the  stage 
of  disease  at  presentation.  Persons  with  poor  access  typically  present  at  an  advanced  stage 
of  disease.  Similarly,  excess  mortality  may  be  an  indicator  that  proper  care  is  not  being 
received.  Other  measures  are  more  directly  linked  to  good  access  to  care.  These  include 
the  use  of  preventive  services,  and  the  use  of  primary  care  services.  In  both  cases,  higher 
use  rates  indicate  a  lower  likelihood  of  poor  access  to  care. 

Other  measures  of  access  were  based  on  providers  of  care.  First,  the  Panel  suggests  that 
utilization  in  public  urban  hospitals  and  clinics  may  be  an  indicator  of  poor  access.  These 
institutions  are  generally  thought  to  be  providers  of  last  resort  for  many  populations. 
Hence,  a  shift  of  beneficiary  care  to  these  settings  could  signal  difficult  in  receiving  care 
in  private  physician  offices.  Second,  the  Panel  suggested  that  an  increasing  concentration 
of  care  among  fewer  physicians  might  indicate  a  loss  of  access  to  mainstream  medical  care. 
The  Panel  suggested  tracking  the  fraction  of  physicians  serving  Medicare  patients,  the 
concentration  of  Medicare  services  across  physicians,  the  number  of  beneficiaries  changing 
physicians,  and  reasons  for  loss  of  usual  source  of  care. 


WHEN  TO  MEASURE  ACCESS  TO  CARE:  IMMEDIATELY  AND  IN  THE  LONGER 
TERM 

In  considering  when  to  measure  access,  the  Panel  suggested  that  some  system  for 
monitoring  access  should  be  in  place  by  1992,  and  that  more  detailed  analysis  should  be 
performed  in  later  years  as  more  complete  and  detailed  data  became  available.  The  large 
payment  changes  that  will  occur  in  1992  suggest  that  access  problems,  or  at  least  the 
perception  of  access  problems,  may  begin  to  develop  immediately  after  implementation  of 
payment  changes.  Thus,  a  system  for  monitoring  changes  in  access  should  be  in  place 
prior  to  the  implementation  of  payment  reform  in  1992.  However,  monitoring  is  also 
needed  in  the  longer  run.  Many  of  the  effects  of  the  payment  changes,  and  many  of  the 


16 


more  detailed  datasets  will  not  be  available  until  several  years  into  the  transition  to  the 
new  physician  payment  rates. 

The  Immediate  Need  For  Measures  Of  Access  To  Care 

There  are  three  rationales  for  putting  some  access  monitoring  process  into  place  in  time 
for  the  1992  implementation  of  physician  payment  reform.  First,  there  may  be  immediate 
and  real  reductions  in  access  due  to  the  payment  changes.  Second,  it  may  require  several 
years  to  identify  and  address  problems  in  access  if  we  rely  solely  on  detailed  annual 
datasets  such  as  the  Current  Beneficiary  Survey.  Finally,  hard  evidence  on  changes  in 
access  to  care  may  be  particularly  useful  during  the  initial  phases  of  payment  reform. 

The  first  factor  to  consider  is  the  probability  that  problems  in  access  will  develop  soon 
after  January  1,  1992.  This  is  of  course  difficult  to  assess.  Part  B  payment  restraints 
through  1989  do  not  seem  to  have  caused  reductions  in  access  for  the  typical  beneficiary. 
However,  this  may  not  extrapolate  to  the  large  payment  changes  that  will  take  place  in 
1992  and  later  years. 

Perhaps  the  most  positive  statement  that  can  be  made  is  that  problems  are  more  Likely  to 
occur  with  physician  payment  reform  than  they  were  with  Medicare  hospital  payment 
reform.  A  comparison  of  physician  payment  reform  and  the  Medicare  Prospective 
Payment  System  (PPS)  shows  why  that  may  be  true. 

First,  payments  during  the  initial  years  of  PPS  were  quite  generous,  with  hospital  operating 
profit  margins  exceeding  14  percent  on  average.  In  contrast,  real  Part  B  fees  have  fallen 
15  percent  since  1988,  and  may  continue  to  fall  after  1992  due  to  certain  technical  aspects 
of  the  transition  to  the  new  fee  schedule.  Second,  PPS  generated  smaller  initial  changes 
in  payment  rates,  with  75  percent  of  inpatient  operating  payments  and  100  percent  of 
other  payments  (capital,  outpatient  services)  based  on  the  hospital’s  own  cost  experience. 
In  contrast,  all  provider-specific  rates  disappear  during  the  first  year  of  physician  payment 
reform,  and  locality-wide  average  payments  are  the  only  vestige  of  the  current  system  that 
will  remain  after  1991.  Finally,  the  typical  hospital  may  have  been  unable  to  reduce  its 
Medicare  patient  load.  Medicare  accounts  for  about  40  percent  of  hospital  inpatient 
revenue,  and  the  decision  to  admit  patients  is  made  by  the  physician,  not  the  hospital.  In 
contrast,  Medicare  constitutes  a  smaller  proportion  of  revenues  for  many  specialties,  and 
physicians  have  a  direct  financial  interest  in  the  level  of  Part  B  fees. 

The  second  factor  arguing  for  immediate  monitoring  of  access  is  the  length  of  time 
necessary  to  obtain,  analyze,  and  act  upon  the  detailed  annual  datasets  to  be  produced  by 
HCFA.  The  first  of  these  datasets  will  appear  only  in  late  1993  or  early  1994.  The  cycle 
of  analysis,  recommendation,  and  legislation  could  take  another  year,  meaning  that 
problems  occurring  in  1992  might  not  be  corrected  until  1995.  Given  this  lag,  it  may  not 
be  advisable  to  wait  for  complete  annual  data  sets  before  judging  increases  or  decreases 
in  access  to  care. 

A  final  factor  to  consider  is  the  need  for  solid  objective  data  during  the  initial  transition 
to  the  fee  schedule.  Any  program  change  of  this  magnitude  is  likely  to  generate 
considerable  criticism  and  negative  anecdotal  evidence.  This  could  create  a  perception  of 


17 


reduced  access  even  if  access  is  not  in  fact  reduced.  Clear  and  unambiguous  information 
during  this  period  may  help  maintain  the  integrity  of  the  reforms  during  their  initial 
implementation. 

The  Need  For  Long-Run  Monitoring  Of  Access 

There  are  several  reasons  to  develop  measures  of  access  that  cannot  be  implemented  until 
several  years  after  1992.  First,  many  of  the  potential  impacts  of  payment  changes  may 
take  some  time  to  appear.  Second,  better  data  become  available  as  time  passes.  Third, 
a  longer  time  frame  allows  more  fine  tuning  and  testing  of  access  measures. 

One  reason  to  pursue  access  monitoring  over  the  longer  term  is  that  the  impacts  of 
payment  reform  may  not  be  fully  felt  until  years  later.  First,  while  payment  rates  will 
change  most  dramatically  in  1992,  rates  will  continue  to  change  through  1996.  Many 
physician  practices  seeing  a  decline  in  fees  in  1992  will  probably  see  further  declines  in 
later  years.  Second,  physicians  and  beneficiaries  may  take  several  years  to  react  to  the 
new  rates,  modifying  practice  patterns  and  payer  mix  over  the  course  of  the  transition. 
Finally,  the  health  effects  of  some  types  of  reduced  access  to  care  may  take  years  to 
develop.  In  particular,  measures  based  on  death  rates  and  on  hospitalization  for  sentinel 
events  may  not  change  until  well  after  access  to  primary  care  has  declined. 

A  second  reason  for  planning  a  long-term  access  strategy  is  that  more  complete  and 
detailed  data  become  available.  Immediately  available  data  may  be  limited  to  simple 
claims  writeoffs.  These  files  are  always  subject  to  uncertainty  due  to  fluctuations  in  the 
number  of  outstanding  unprocessed  claims  (claims  runout),  and  they  will  not  include 
information  on  such  items  as  health  status.  Annually  produced  datasets  would  include  the 
Current  Beneficiary  Survey  (CBS)  and  the  Part  B  Medicare  Annual  Data  (BMAD)  files 
from  HCFA,  and  the  Health  Interview  Survey  from  the  National  Center  for  Health 
Statistics.  These  files  are  not  subject  to  the  uncertainties  caused  by  claims  runout  and  they 
contain  more  complete  information  on  the  beneficiaries.  However,  complete  annual  data 
are  typically  not  available  until  one  to  two  years  after  data  collection  ends,  meaning  that 
the  first  detailed  analysis  of  the  access  impacts  of  the  1992  changes  cannot  be  made  until 
late  1993  or  early  1994.1 

Finally,  much  of  the  developmental  work  for  the  proposed  measures  of  access  still  needs 
to  be  done.  Reliable  measures  of  access  may  not  be  available  in  time  for  the  initial 
implementation  of  payment  reform.  In  the  interim,  research  may  be  directed  toward 
developing  and  testing  new  measures  of  access  to  care  for  implementation  on  the  more 
complete  datasets. 


1  For  example,  data  from  the  first  set  of  post-1991  CBS  access  questions  will  be  available  in  June  1993  at  the 
earliest,  but  final  tabulations  will  not  be  available  until  December  1993.  Similarly,  the  1992  BMAD  files  will 
probably  be  released  around  the  end  of  1993. 


18 


WHO  SHOULD  DO  THE  ANALYSIS? 


Perhaps  the  most  difficult  question  to  answer  at  this  time  is  who  should  monitor  access. 
Clearly  the  burden  of  work  must  rest  primarily  with  HCFA,  since  HCFA  will  have  the  use 
of  all  Part  B  claims  data.  In  addition,  the  Commission  may  wish  to  establish  greater  access 
to  Medicare  claims  files  for  the  purpose  of  monitoring  changes  in  beneficiaries’  access  to 
care.  Finally,  the  Panel  urges  that  the  Secretary  routinely  release  utilization  data  that 
would  allow  any  interested  parties  to  track  measures  of  access. 

Practical  considerations  alone  suggest  that  HCFA  must  play  the  major  role  in  monitoring 
access  to  care.  First,  the  principal  source  of  Medicare  claims  data  is  huge.  Estimates  of 
the  size  of  one  year  of  Common  Working  File  Part  B  records  range  from  1500  to  7000 
standard  reels  of  computer  tape,  depending  upon  what  data  items  are  included.  Because 
HCFA  staff  will  necessarily  have  more  direct  access  to  this  data,  they  will  be  better  able 
to  calculate  some  of  the  measures  of  access.  Second,  some  elements  of  the  data  set  cannot 
be  released  to  individuals  outside  Health  and  Human  Services.  In  particular,  the  Unique 
Physician  Identification  Numbers  (UPINs)  probably  will  not  be  available  to  researchers, 
although  some  scrambled  form  of  the  UPINs  may  be  made  available.  Thus,  detailed 
analysis  of  certain  aspects  of  the  data  such  as  characteristics  of  physicians  may  best  be 
done  by  HCFA  personnel. 

However,  other  parties  may  also  play  a  part  in  monitoring  access  to  care.  The 
Commission  may  wish  to  perform  its  own  analyses  of  HCFA  claims  files  to  assure  that 
certain  measures  of  access  are  calculated.  However,  given  the  lack  of  specific  detail  in  the 
Secretary’s  report  on  utilization,  access,  and  quality  (DHHS  1991),  it  is  difficult  at  this 
point  to  say  what  measures  the  Secretary  actually  plans  to  calculate  and  publish.  Thus,  it 
is  unclear  to  what  extent  the  Commission  will  engage  in  actually  analyzing  claims  files  in 
its  efforts  to  monitor  access. 

Some  analyses  of  data  other  than  HCFA  claims  files  may  more  appropriately  be  done 
under  the  auspices  of  the  Commission  rather  than  by  HCFA.  For  example,  physicians  or 
beneficiaries  might  respond  to  surveys  differently  depending  upon  the  sponsor.  Thus,  the 
Commission  could  play  a  valuable  role  in  supplementing  the  HCFA  research  agenda  in 
these  areas. 

Finally,  the  Commission  recognizes  that  the  timely  release  of  data  by  HCFA  as  a  crucial 
element  in  this  plan.  Many  of  the  data  sources  are  too  large  to  be  released  in  their 
entirety  by  HCFA.  However,  useful  summary  statistics  could  be  produced  and  made 
available  to  interested  parties.  Routine  release  of  such  summary  data,  with  or  without 
further  analysis  by  HCFA,  would  allow  interested  parties  such  as  beneficiary  organizations 
to  track  changes  in  access  to  care. 


19 


'»*•  • 


• 

. 

TECHNICAL  NOTES  ON 
MEASURES  OF  ACCESS 


This  section  of  the  workplan  collects  background  information  on  the  geographic  areas, 
vulnerable  populations,  and  measures  of  access  identified  by  the  Panel.  The  underlying 
question  is  whether  these  areas,  populations  and  measures  can  be  identified  using  HCFA 
claims  files.  Table  1  at  the  end  of  this  section  provides  a  summary  of  the  areas, 
populations,  and  measures  discussed  here. 


GEOGRAPHIC  AREAS 

The  Panel  identified  several  geographic  areas  of  interest.  This  section  reviews  some 
evidence  on  the  ability  to  identify  these  areas  and  track  beneficiaries  within  these  areas 
using  Medicare  administrative  data. 

Frontier  Rural  Areas 

Frontier  rural  counties  are  counties  with  fewer  than  six  inhabitants  per  square  mile.  With 
only  a  handful  of  exceptions,  these  counties  all  are  west  of  the  Mississippi  river.  These 
areas  are  marked  by  relatively  thinly-spread  health  care  resources,  and  inhabitants  are 
generally  thought  to  have  to  travel  further  to  obtain  medical  care.  In  these  areas,  access 
could  be  jeopardized  if  only  a  few  providers  decided  not  to  see  Medicare  beneficiaries. 
In  1988,  1.2  percent  of  Medicare  beneficiaries  lived  in  frontier  rural  counties. 

It  is  a  relatively  straightforward  task  to  identify  frontier  rural  counties  using  the  .Area 
Resource  File  (ARF).  Once  those  counties  are  identified  there  are  two  ways  in  which 
claims  information  may  be  obtained.  First,  HCFA  already  processes  many  claims  into 
county  aggregates.  Thus,  county  of  residence  aggregate  files  could  readily  be  made 
available.  However,  these  files  are  processed  only  with  a  considerable  lag,  usually  contain 
only  summary  information,  and  would  not  serve  for  a  rapid  analysis  of  changes  in 
utilization  just  pre  and  post  the  introduction  of  payment  reform.  Alternatively,  HCFA 
staff  may  draw  samples  of  records  from  the  CWF  based  on  county  of  residence. 

Inner  City  .Areas 

Identifying  beneficiaries  in  inner  city  areas  is  a  much  more  difficult  task  than  identifying 
those  in  frontier  rural  areas.  For  the  purpose  of  tracking  health  care  use,  inner  city  areas 
are  generally  defined  as  areas  with  low  average  incomes,  high  poverty  rates,  and  few  health 
care  providers.  Because  these  areas  must  be  defined  at  the  sub-county  level,  readily- 
available  county-level  files  such  as  the  ARF  are  not  useful  in  identifying  them. 

One  approach  to  identifying  such  areas  would  rely  on  commercially  available  files 
tabulating  information  for  individual  Census  tracts  or  ZIP  codes.  These  files  typically 
record  information  on  average  income.  These  files  might  be  supplemented  with  counts  of 
patient  care  physicians  to  generate  a  list  of  ZIP  codes  for  a  specific  definition  of  inner-city 


20 


areas.  Once  ZIP  codes  were  identified,  records  could  be  drawn  from  the  CWF  based 
either  on  the  ZIP  code,  or  more  easily,  based  on  the  HICs  of  individuals  living  in  those 
ZIP  codes. 

An  alternative  approach  could  be  undertaken  from  HCFA  claims  files.  Beneficiary  ZIP 
code  and  buy-in  status  could  be  used  to  identify  ZIP  codes  with  a  high  proportion  of  poor 
and  near  poor  beneficiaries,  those  who  are  Medicaid-eligible  or  who  are  Qualified 
Medicare  Beneficiaries.  As  with  the  first  approach,  counts  of  physicians  could  then  be 
used  to  identify  underserved  pockets  of  poverty  within  cities. 

There  is  a  potentially  important  complication  to  either  of  these  methods.  Because  the  ZIP 
code  is  based  on  the  mailing  address  of  the  Social  Security  check,  there  may  be  leakage 
across  the  borders  of  inner-city  regions.  ZIP  code  zones  tend  to  be  geographically  small 
in  cities,  making  this  a  more  significant  problem  than  the  similar  problem  faced  in  placing 
beneficiaries  into  frontier  rural  counties. 

Health  Professional  Shortage  Areas 

Health  Professional  Shortage  Areas  (HPSAs)  are  designated  by  the  Health  Resources  and 
Services  Administration  (HRSA)  in  the  Public  Health  Service.  HRSA  has  used  the 
HPSAs  to  help  determine  the  allocation  of  Public  Health  Services  Corps  physicians.  A  low 
physician-to-population  ratio  is  the  prime  determinant  of  HPSA  status. 

Medicare  currently  pays  a  bonus  payment  for  services  provided  in  HPSAs.  Prior  to  1991, 
a  five  percent  bonus  was  added  to  physicians  providing  services  in  some  categories  of  rural 
HPSAs.  As  of  January,  1991,  a  10  percent  bonus  is  paid  for  services  provided  in  all  rural 
and  urban  HPSAs.1  HCFA  staff  provided  the  Commission  with  the  following  outline  of 
claims  processing  for  HPSAs: 

Medicare  Part  B  carriers  must  know  which  bills  are  paid  in  HPSAs  because  payment  rates 
differ  between  HPSA  and  non-HPSA  areas.  Identification  of  those  bills  is,  however,  a 
lengthy  process.  It  begins  in  the  Public  Health  Service,  which  provides  a  "narrative  list" 
of  HPSAs  to  HCFA,  literally  a  written  description  of  each  HPSA.  HPSAs  may  be 
counties,  Census  tracts,  or  other  geographic  areas,  or  may  be  specific  to  particular 
populations  within  geographic  areas,  for  example,  individuals  below  the  poverty  line. 
HCFA  passes  this  narrative  list  on  to  the  carriers  with  instructions  to  draw  maps  or 
otherwise  make  information  about  the  locations  of  HPSAs  available  to  physicians. 

Physicians  must  identify  services  provided  in  HPSAs  on  the  claim  form  in  order  to  receive 
the  bonus  payment.  Prior  to  January  1,  1991,  this  was  done  by  adding  "rural"  to  the 
narrative  place-of-service  description.2  Carriers,  however,  translated  these  expanded 
place-of-service  narratives  into  the  standard  place  of  service  codes  when  submitting  the 


1  Actually,  the  additional  payment  is  10  percent  of  the  80  percent  of  the  bill  paid  directly  by  Medicare,  or  8 
percent  of  the  allowed  charge. 

2  For  example,  hospital  inpatient  -  rural. 


21 


data  to  HCFA.  Thus,  prior  to  January  1,  1991,  information  on  individual  services  provided 
in  HPSAs  was  not  available  on  HCFA  claims  files.3  After  January  1,  1991,  however,  the 
system  for  reporting  HPSA  services  changed.  Rather  than  using  a  place-of-service  code, 
physicians  were  instructed  to  use  a  new  HCPCS  code  modifier  to  show  that  the  services 
was  provided  in  a  HPSA.4  This  modifier  would  be  retained  during  claims  processing,  and 
so  should  be  available  on  HCFA  claims  datasets.  However,  the  extent  of  compliance  with 
this  new  regulation  is  not  yet  known.  Currently,  HCFA  tracks  centrally  only  the  quarterly 
aggregate  number  of  checks  and  total  bonus  payments  for  services  delivered  in  HPSAs. 

If  shortage  designation  is  not  accurately  recorded,  obtaining  information  on  beneficiaries 
in  those  areas  would  require  a  considerable  amount  of  work.  HPSAs  are  quite  complex. 
Even  those  that  are  strictly  geographically  defined  can  be  areas  from  whole  counties  down 
to  individual  census  tracts  or  magisterial  districts.  These  areas  will  not  cross-walk  exactly 
to  ZIP  codes,  and  to  date  Commission  staff  have  not  found  an  approximate  ZIP  code 
mapping  for  all  U.S.  HPSAs.5  Thus,  such  a  cross-walk  might  have  to  be  generated  by 
overlaying  physical  maps  of  HPSAs  with  ZIP  code  maps. 

Medically  Underserved  Areas 

Medically  Underserved  Areas  (MUAs)  are  an  alternative  to  HPSAs  for  identifying  areas 
with  potentially  poor  access  to  care.  The  MUAs  share  many  of  the  technical  problems  of 
the  HPSAs.  They  are  not  defined  in  units  that  are  easily  traceable  through  the  machine 
readable  files.  In  addition,  they  are  not  the  basis  for  the  Medicare  10  percent  bonus 
payment,  and  so  are  not  recorded  on  HCFA  claims  files. 

Areas/Specialties  With  Large  Price  Declines 

The  Commission’s  simulations  will  be  used  to  identify  areas  and  specialties  within  areas 
that  will  experience  large  fee  declines  during  the  transition  to  the  Medicare  Fee  Schedule. 
Currently,  those  simulations  are  being  fine-tuned  to  represent  the  best  available  data  on 
post- 1992  payment  rates.  Later  this  year,  Commission  staff  will  estimate  gains  and  losses 
by  specialty  and  payment  area.  Because  fees  are  set  using  these  payment  area  definitions, 
it  will  be  quite  easy  to  identify  all  services  paid  for  in  the  various  areas. 


3  On  the  1989  BMAD  file,  three  carriers  (Virginia,  Louisiana,  and  the  Railroad  Retirement  carrier)  used  a 
unique  set  of  place  of  service  codes  to  report  services  delivered  in  shortage  areas. 

4  The  HCFA  Common  Procedure  Coding  System  (HCPCS)  code  is  a  five-digit  code  identifying  the  service 
performed  by  the  physician.  A  two-digit  modifier  is  sometimes  appended  to  the  HCPCS  code  to  further  define 
the  service.  The  modifiers  QB  and  QU  are  now  used  to  indicate  that  a  service  was  provided  in  a  HPSA. 

5  One  study  using  National  Medical  Expenditures  Survey  data  cross-walked  late-1970s  HPSAs  to  ZIP  codes. 
This  took  approximately  two  person-weeks  of  effort  (Personal  communication  with  Amy  Bernstein,  Prospective 
Payment  Assessment  Commission). 


22 


NVV 


Areas  With  Large  Medicare/Private  Fee  Differentials 

While  Medicare  fee  data  are  publicly  available,  there  is  little  reliable  private-sector  fee 
information.  Previous  staff  work  with  the  Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  Association  verified 
that  there  is  considerable  geographic  variation  in  the  gap  between  BC/BS  and  Medicare 
payment  rates  (PPRC  1990),  but  the  BCBSA  cannot  identify  individual  areas  in  its 
analyses. 

Of  the  potential  data  sources  in  this  area  pursued  by  the  staff,  the  MEDSTAT  data  appear 
most  promising.  The  MEDSTAT  database  is  a  collection  of  claims  for  approximately  100 
very  large  employers.  This  data  set  is  rather  expensive,  but  it  has  a  number  of  advantages. 
First,  it  has  a  fairly  representative  sample  of  private  sector  payer  mix,  including  both 
BC/BS  and  commercial  payers.  It  also  has  a  reasonably  uniform  geographic  distribution 
across  urban  areas,  though  relatively  few  claims  are  filed  from  rural  areas. 

Commission  staff  have  contracted  with  MEDSTAT  for  the  purchase  of  data  which  may 
allow  comparisons  between  1989  Medicare  rates  and  1989  private  sector  rates.  From  this, 
staff  can  use  the  Commission’s  simulations  to  project  the  approximate  differentials  that 
will  occur  in  1992  and  later  years.  If  the  MEDSTAT  data  prove  usable  and  reliable  this 
analyis  may  be  repeated  in  later  years. 


VULNERABLE  POPULATIONS 

The  Advisory  Panel  on  Access  identified  a  number  of  populations  most  vulnerable  to 
reductions  in  access  to  care.  This  section  collects  some  background  information  on 
identifying  those  populations  using  the  Medicare  administrative  files. 

Old  Old 

This  population  can  be  easily  identified  from  HCFA  administrative  data.  Various  HCFA 
eligibility  files  contain  date  of  birth  information,  which  can  then  be  linked  to  the  Health 
Insurance  Claim  (HIC)  number  (Social  Security  or  Railroad  Retirement  Number  plus 
Beneficiary  Identification  Code).  HCFA  uses  the  HIC  on  all  claims  processed,  so  service 
utilization  by  this  population  should  be  easy  to  track.  It  may  be  necessary  for  HCFA  to 
encrypt  the  HICs  to  maintain  the  confidentiality  of  the  records.  However,  because 
HCFA’s  encryption  algorithm  is  unique,  the  Commission  may  also  request  the  beneficiary 
information  with  encrypted  HIC  and  merge  the  beneficiary  information  onto  the  claims. 

A  typical  line  for  distinguishing  the  "old  old"  beneficiary  is  age  85.  This  would  capture  10 
percent  of  the  aged  beneficiary  population  and  12  percent  of  Part  B  outlays. 

Disabled 

As  with  the  old  old,  HCFA  administrative  records  allow  the  disabled  to  be  identified 
directly.  In  this  case,  the  "current  reason  for  entitlement"  field  identifies  all  disabled 
beneficiaries.  Disabled  beneficiaries  constitute  about  10  percent  of  the  beneficiary 
population  (2.7  million  disabled  versus  28.5  million  aged  beneficiaries  in  1988). 


23 


Identifying  the  mentally  and  physically  disabled  within  this  category  of  beneficiaries  may 
be  quite  difficult.  Routinely  available  produced  Medicare  statistical  files  do  not  maintain 
a  finer  breakout  of  the  "reason  for  entitlement"  field.  However,  Social  Security 
Administration  files  probably  do  record  a  detailed  "reason  for  entitlement"  for  the 
disabled.  Commission  staff  will  check  with  HCFA  personnel  to  see  whether  type  of 
disability  recorded  on  the  SSA  files  may  be  written  onto  HCFA  claims  records.  If  not, 
staff  could  try  to  identify  the  mentally  disabled  through  patterns  of  service  use  (eg., 
psychiatric  services).  This  may  require  a  special  request  for  data  from  HCFA  in  order  to 
be  able  to  attach  beneficiary  reason  for  entitlement  onto  the  Commission’s  existing  sample 
of  Part  B  beneficiary  claims. 

ESRD  Beneficiaries 

ESRD  beneficiaries  are  identified  in  the  "reason  for  entitlement"  field.  In  addition,  the 
standard  HCFA  beneficiary  sample  contains  records  for  five  percent  of  non-ESRD 
beneficiaries  and  100  percent  of  all  ESRD  beneficiaries.  Thus,  it  would  be  particularly 
convenient  to  track  utilization  by  this  beneficiary  population. 

Institutionalized 

Commission  staff  have  been  discussing  the  problem  of  identifying  the  institutionalized  with 
HCFA  personnel  working  on  the  Current  Beneficiary  Survey.  They  suggest  that  it  may  be 
difficult  to  characterize  accurately  the  institutionalized  beneficiary  population. 

Staff  can  identify  beneficiaries  with  Part  B  charges  in  nursing  home  settings.  In  addition, 
some  Part  A  payments  may  be  identifiable  for  nursing  home  care  following  acute  inpatient 
stays.  However,  these  markers  would  ignore  beneficiaries  with  no  claims,  and  may 
imperfectly  identify  beneficiaries  who  are  well  enough  to  travel  to  physician  offices  or 
other  settings  for  their  Part  B  care.  At  the  very  least,  Commission  staff  will  try  to 
benchmark  counts  of  institutionalized  individuals  derived  from  claims  analysis  against 
counts  from  national  surveys.  In  addition,  this  would  not  accurately  track  beneficiaries  as 
they  move  into  and  out  of  institutional  settings.  That  is,  a  listing  of  institutionalized 
individuals  derived  from  1990  data  may  be  a  poor  proxy  for  the  institutionalized 
population  in  1992. 

Buy-In  Status  (Medicaid,  QMBs) 

States  may  purchase  Part  B  coverage  for  their  Medicaid  beneficiaries  (dual  eligibles)  and 
for  individuals  near  the  poverty  line  but  not  Medicaid  eligible  (Qualified  Medicare 
Beneficiaries  or  QMBs).  HCFA  administrative  files  note  the  buy-in  status  of  Medicare 
beneficiaries,  so  this  population  could  be  easily  identified.  However,  because  buy-in  status 
may  change  over  time,  there  may  be  some  discrepancies  between  beneficiaries  identified 
by  this  method  in  one  year  and  the  population  of  beneficiaries  with  state  buy-in  in  the  next 
year. 

Approximately  9  percent  of  beneficiaries  were  enrolled  in  Part  B  under  state  buy-in 
agreements  in  1989.  This  varies  considerably  across  states,  however.  For  example,  nearly 


24 


25  percent  of  Mississippi  beneficiaries  were  enrolled  under  this  program,  while  for  several 
states  approximately  3  percent  of  beneficiaries  were  so  enrolled. 

Payment  policies  regarding  these  beneficiaries  vary  considerably  across  states.  States  pay 
the  copayments  for  these  beneficiaries,  but  typically  will  pay  these  copayments  only  in 
reference  to  their  local  Medicaid  fee  schedules.  Thus,  in  many  states,  if  the  Medicaid  fee 
is  less  than  80  percent  of  the  Medicare  allowed  charge,  the  physician  collects  no 
copayment.  Commission  staff  have  so  far  been  unable  to  locate  a  listing  of  state  policies 
in  this  area.  A  survey  of  state  Medicaid  programs  may  have  to  be  conducted  to  determine 
which  states  pay  at  their  Medicaid  fee  schedules  and  which  states  pay  the  full  Medicare 
rate. 

Ethnicity 

Ethnicity  is  identified  on  several  of  the  Medicare  statistical  files.  The  categories  are  black, 
white,  other,  and  unknown. 

The  Poor 

It  is  probably  not  possible  to  identify  the  non-Medicaid/non  QMB  poor.  While  it  is 
possible,  on  a  special  request  basis,  to  obtain  files  with  social  security  income,  that  variable 
has  not  proven  very  useful  in  identify  poor  individuals  in  previous  Commission  staff  work. 
However,  some  survey  data  may  provide  information  on  income. 


MEASURES  OF  ACCESS 

Finally,  the  Panel  suggested  several  types  of  measures  of  access  to  care.  This  section 
provides  some  small  amount  of  background  detail  on  calculating  those  measures  from 
HCFA  administrative  data. 

Sentinel  Events 

The  notion  of  avoidable  illness  and  avoidable  death  underlies  the  sentinel  event  approach 
to  monitoring  access.  Sentinel  events  are  serious  medical  conditions  which  could  have 
been  avoided  or  from  which  death  could  have  been  avoided  (United  Hospital  Fund  1988). 
They  have  been  classified  into  events  for  which  any  incidence  indicates  poor  care  (ie., 
events  which  should  never  happen)  and  events  for  which  a  high  incidence  indicates  poor 
care.  Little  of  the  existing  analyses  of  sentinel  events  has  focussed  on  the  Medicare 
population,  although  under  one  definition  60  percent  of  sentinel  events  occur  in  the  over- 
65  population  (United  Hospital  Fund  1988). 

At  least  two  questions  need  to  be  addressed  before  beginning  to  apply  the  sentinel  event 
approach  to  the  Medicare  population.  First,  of  the  sentinel  events  identified  elsewhere, 
which  ones  are  most  applicable  to  the  Medicare  population?  Second,  how  large  a 
population  is  needed  to  guarantee  a  reasonably  stable  estimates  of  the  incidence  of 
sentinel  events  over  time? 


25 


Commission  staff  began  to  examine  the  questions  of  incidence  and  stability  for  a  small 
number  of  sentinel  events.  Criteria  for  identifying  four  sentinel  events  using  ICD-9-CM 
codes  on  hospital  discharge  abstracts  were  taken  from  a  recent  Health  Resources  and 
Services  Administration  report  (HRSA  1987).  Part  A  records  from  the  Medicare 
Automated  Data  Retrieval  System  (MADRS)  were  analyzed  for  a  sample  of  about  100,000 
beneficiaries  residing  primarily  in  the  Los  Angeles  area.  The  annual  incidence  of  these 
four  sentinel  events  per  1000  beneficiaries  varied  considerably,  from  0.2  events  per  1000 
beneficiaries  for  invasive  cervical  cancer  to  19  events  per  1000  beneficiaries  for 
uncontrolled  hypertension. 

The  relatively  low  incidence  of  these  conditions  means  that  fairly  large  populations  are 
needed  to  obtain  stable  use  rates.  Thus,  this  technique  probably  cannot  be  applied  to 
populations  of  fewer  than  50,000  beneficiaries.  In  smaller  populations,  even  very  large 
year-to-year  fluctuations  could  be  the  result  of  natural  random  variation  in  incidence. 

Stage  Of  Disease 

The  concept  of  disease  stage  originated  in  oncology,  where  the  progress  of  a  cancer  was 
tracked  from  localized  involvement  through  systemic  involvement,  organ  failure,  and  death. 
Individuals  with  poor  access  to  primary  care  might  first  present  to  a  physician  with  their 
disease  at  a  more  advanced  stage.  Thus,  stage  of  disease  at  first  treatment  may  be  a  good 
clinical  indicator  of  access  to  care. 

In  some  instances,  the  stage  of  a  cancer  might  be  subsumed  into  the  sentinel  events 
approach  if  certain  subsets  of  ICD-9-CM  codes  would  allow  invasive  and  metastasized 
cancers  to  be  identified.  More  formal  approaches  are  available  based  on  the  diagnoses 
and  procedures  recorded  in  Part  A  hospital  data.  If  these  approaches  to  identifying  stage 
of  disease  are  not  satisfactory,  the  success  of  such  a  project  might  depend  on  crosswalking 
information  from  cancer  registry  data  onto  the  Medicare  claims  files.  Large-scale  mapping 
of  machine-readable  cancer  registry  data  has  been  attempted  before,6  and  there  are  fairly 
standard  procedures  for  matching  discharge  abstracts  to  other  data  files. 

Because  the  best  indicator  would  be  stage  of  disease  at  presentation,  this  approach  would 
ideally  require  a  fairly  substantial  time  series.  Such  a  time  series  might  be  feasible  if  the 
indicator  is  limited  to  stage  at  first  hospitalization.  Because  the  Medicare  hospital 
discharge  abstract  files  are  fairly  small  (10  million  records  annually)  and  complete,  it  would 
be  feasible  to  perform  a  retrospective  search  within  a  multiple-year  window  to  identify  a 
patient’s  first  hospitalization  for  a  given  condition. 


6  For  example,  the  Hospital  Cancer  Clinical  Research  Project  (HCCRP),  a  joint  undertaking  of  the  National 
Cancer  Institute  and  the  Agency  for  Health  Care  Policy  and  Research,  linked  data  from  10  regional  cancer 
protocol  registries  to  a  discharge  abstracts  provided  by  a  few  hospitals.  However,  the  project,  begun  in  1984,  is 
not  yet  finished,  so  it  is  difficult  to  tell  how  accurately  such  data  may  be  matched. 


26 


Primary  Care  Utilization 

The  Panel  suggested  a  number  of  access  measures  based  on  utilization  of  primary  care 
services.  These  included  the  gross  visit  rate,  annual  probability  of  an  office  visit,  number 
of  home  visits,  ratio  of  outpatient  visits  to  hospitalizations,  emergency  room  (ER)  visits, 
or  ER  visits  as  a  percentage  of  all  visits,  and  the  distribution  of  office  visits  across 
beneficiaries. 

With  the  exception  of  home  visits,  calculation  of  all  these  measures  should  be  fairly 
straightforward.  For  home  visits,  there  is  a  complication  in  that  visits  by  home  health 
agency  employees  might  substitute  for  visits  by  physicians.  Thus,  counts  of  physician  home 
visits  might  misstate  the  degree  of  home-based  care  delivered. 

Because  primary  care  visits  are  the  most  often-billed  Part  B  services,  these  measures 
should  at  least  be  statistically  stable.  However,  several  panel  members  suggested  that 
these  measures  might  be  poor  access  indicators  because  different  beneficiaries  might 
receive  visits  for  different  reasons  (eg.,  preventive  care  versus  acute  care).  Until  the 
quality  of  the  diagnosis  coding  on  the  new  Part  B  records  is  known,  however,  it  probably 
will  not  be  possible  to  sort  out  the  various  reasons  for  visits. 

Number  Of  Physicians  Serving  Medicare  Beneficiaries 

One  possible  adverse  impact  of  changes  in  Medicare  payment  rates  is  that  many  physicians 
may  seek  to  limit  the  number  of  Medicare  patients  that  they  treat.  Hence,  a  reasonable 
indicator  of  good  access  to  care  would  be  the  dispersion  of  Medicare  services  across 
physicians.  A  reduction  in  the  number  of  physicians  seeing  Medicare  patients  may  indicate 
a  loss  of  mainstream  care  for  beneficiaries.  An  additional  provider-based  indicator  would 
be  the  number  of  beneficiaries  changing  physicians.  Changes  in  this  indicator  might  also 
show  an  increased  unwillingness  by  some  providers  to  serve  Medicare  beneficiaries.7 

Technical  problems  with  physician  identifiers  in  the  Medicare  files  may  make  this  a 
difficult  task.  Prior  to  1991,  Medicare  statistical  files  identified  physicians  only  by  carrier- 
assigned  numbers.  Numerous  physicians  could  use  the  same  number  (eg.,  a  single  billing 
number  for  a  group  practice),  while  one  physician  might  bill  under  several  numbers. 

To  quantify  the  magnitude  of  this  problem,  Commission  staff  took  a  sample  amounting  to 
1  percent  of  1989  physician  billing  numbers.  On  a  charge-weighted  basis,  only  30  percent 
of  physicians  used  a  unique  identifier,  with  70  percent  reporting  that  multiple  identifiers 
might  be  used  by  the  same  provider  entity.  This  is  clearly  the  result  of  variation  across  the 
carriers:  eight  carriers  require  unique  numbers,  while  nearly  all  the  remaining  carriers 
allow  multiple  numbers  per  physician.  About  60  percent  of  the  billing  numbers  were  for 
solo  practitioners,  while  the  remaining  40  percent  were  from  group  practices,  clinics,  and 
other  practitioners.  Thus  it  is  appears  unlikely  that  any  accurate  estimate  of  the  extent  of 


7  Measures  of  the  number  of  beneficiaries  switching  physicians  and  the  reason  for  loss  of  usual  source  of  care 
will  also  be  obtainable  from  the  Current  Beneficiary  Survey. 


27 


concentration  of  Medicare  services  among  physicians  can  be  obtained  from  historical 
Medicare  claims  files. 

HCFA  is  moving  toward  a  Unique  Provider  Identification  Number  (UPIN)  system,  under 
which  each  MD  or  DO  would  have  one  and  only  one  billing  number.  Currently,  however, 
only  about  40  percent  of  CWF  records  have  the  UPIN  on  them,  with  the  rest  still  being 
reported  by  the  old  carrier-assigned  numbers.  The  HCFA  Bureau  of  Program  Operations 
does  not  plan  to  enforce  use  of  the  UPIN  (ie.,  denial  of  claims)  until  January  1,  1992. 
Thus,  there  will  be  no  good  national  pre/post  1992  time  series  based  on  the  UPIN. 

It  is  possible  that  HCFA  could  map  the  old  carrier  identifiers  to  the  new  UPINs  in  an 
attempt  to  get  some  national  trend  data.  Medicare’s  directory  of  UPINs  retains  up  to  six 
carrier-assigned  billing  numbers  for  each  UPIN.  A  project  to  crosswalk  the  UPINs  and 
the  old  numbers  is  being  discussed  at  HCFA,  and  Commission  staff  plan  to  make  further 
inquiries  in  this  area.8 

There  may  be,  in  addition,  strong  restrictions  on  the  use  of  the  UPIN  once  it  is  fully 
implemented.  Whereas  employees  of  HHS  may  access  the  UPIN  files  for  their  official 
duties,  no  provision  is  made  for  government  agencies  outside  of  HHS  other  than  the 
Department  of  Justice  in  case  of  legal  action.  Thus,  it  is  unlikely  that  the  PPRC  would  be 
able  to  perform  a  mapping  of  historical  data  to  the  new  UPINs  on  its  own,  and  would  have 
to  rely  on  a  HCFA-provided  mapping. 

Finally,  HCFA  has  historical  data  on  the  number  of  physicians  signing  participation 
agreements.  It  is  not  clear,  however,  whether  this  data  would  be  useful  in  tracking  the 
concentration  of  Medicare  services  across  physicians. 

Profiling  Physicians  Serving  The  Underserved 

.An  additional  physician-based  analysis  suggested  by  the  Panel  was  to  profile  and  track 
those  physicians  serving  the  underserved.  Ideally,  Commission  staff  would  like  to  use  the 
Medicare  claims  files  to  track  these  physicians.  If  UPIN-based  information  is  provided, 
staff  should  be  able  at  least  to  analyze  counts  in  the  number  of  physicians  after  1992. 
However,  due  to  restrictions  on  the  use  of  the  UPEN,  staff  may  not  be  able  to  profile  the 
characteristics  of  physicians.  While  HCFA’s  UPEN  directory  will  indicate  such  items  as 
board  certification,  it  seems  unlikely  at  this  point  that  such  information  will  be  made 
available  to  those  outside  of  HCFA. 

Use  Of  Public  Institutions 

The  Panel  suggested  that  increased  use  of  public  facilities  might  be  one  indicator  of 
reduced  access  to  private  physicians.  Staff  have  examined  the  potential  for  tracing  the 
amount  of  care  provided  in  public  hospitals  and  other  governmental  funded  facilities. 


8  However,  it  may  be  impossible  to  count  the  number  of  physicians  within  groups  serving  Medicare 
beneficiaries,  since  in  some  instances  ail  physicians  within  a  group  used  the  same  billing  ID  in  the  historical  data. 


28 


On  the  inpatient  side,  this  is  a  relatively  straightforward  task.  The  HCFA  Provider  of 
Service  file  will  allow  the  HCFA  hospital  identifiers  to  be  selected  for  urban  public 
hospitals.  These  hospital  identifiers  are  keyed  onto  the  Medicare  Part  A  files,  allowing 
the  inpatient  care  in  these  facilities  to  be  tracked  easily. 

On  the  outpatient  side,  however,  this  may  be  much  more  difficult.  Each  visit  to  a  hospital 
outpatient  department  generates  a  facility  charge.  The  bill  for  this  facility  charge  uses  the 
same  hospital  identifier  as  the  inpatient  bill,  so  bills  from  public  hospital  OPDs  should  be 
recognizable.  However,  the  hospital  outpatient  files  have  historically  been  among  the  least 
usable  of  HCFA  datasets,  and  have  never  been  publicly  released.  In  addition,  diagnoses 
have  been  coded  using  ICD-9-CM  codes,  and  CPT  codes  have  only  recently  been  required. 
So  far,  compliance  with  the  CPT  coding  requirement  seems  spotty,  so  it  may  not  be 
possible  to  count  individual  services  very  accurately  in  this  file.  It  probably  is  not  possible 
to  track  public  hospital  use  through  physicians'  bills.  The  provider  number  on  these  bills 
is  the  physician’s  number,  not  the  hospital’s. 

However,  for  other  sorts  of  public  outpatient  providers  it  may  be  possible  to  track 
beneficiary  usage.  Federally-funded  Comprehensive  Health  Centers  and  rural  health 
clinics  have  their  own  provider  identifiers  in  the  HCFA  provider  of  service  file.  However, 
it  is  not  clear  whether  the  Part  B  carriers  use  these  numbers  or  assign  their  own  provider 
numbers  to  these  clinics  in  the  same  way  that  they  do  to  other  physician  practices. 
Commission  staff  will  investigate  this  further. 

Others 

The  Panel  suggested  two  other  approaches  to  measuring  access  to  care  that  will  require 
considerable  additional  developmental  work  prior  to  implementation.  First,  episodes  of 
care  might  be  used  to  track  adequacy  of  access.  For  example,  individuals  hospitalized  with 
a  heart  attack  should  be  seen  by  a  cardiologist  after  discharge  from  the  hospital.  Lack  of 
such  followup  care  could  be  an  indicator  that  beneficiaries  do  not  have  adequate  access 
to  care.  Second,  excess  mortality  is  one  poor  outcome  that  may  be  linked  to  inadequate 
access.  HCFA  routinely  releases  case-mix-adjusted  mortality  data  for  hospitals.  Similar 
indices  may  be  constructed  for  populations  using  the  date  of  death  available  on  the  Health 
Insurance  Master  File. 


SUMMARY  OF  VULNERABLE  POPULATIONS,  GEOGRAPHIC  AREAS,  AND 
MEASURES  OF  ACCESS 

Table  1  summarizes  some  of  the  above  discussion  on  vulnerable  populations,  geographic 
areas,  and  measures  of  access  using  HCFA  administrative  datasets. 


29 


Table  1.  Summary  of  Geographic  Areas,  Vulnerable  Populations,  and  Measures  of  Access 


Proportion  of 

Beneficiary  Population  I 

Directly  Identifiable  from 

1CFA  Admtot*tratht»  Data? 

AREAS 

Frontier  Rural 

1 2  percent 

Yes 

Inner  City 

Data  not  yet  available 

Yes,  by  ZIP  code 

HPSA 

Data  not  yet  available 

Probably  yes* 

Areas  w/  Large  Fee  Reduction 

Data  not  yet  available 

Yes 

Areas  where  Medicare  Fees  are 

Data  not  yet  available 

Yes 

Lowest  Relative  to  Other  Payers 

Old  old 

Approximately  10  percent 

Yes 

Disabled 

Approximately  10  percent 

Yes 

Mental 

Data  not  yet  available 

Perhaps  w/SSA  Data*3 

Other 

Data  not  yet  available 

Perhaps  w/SSA  Data 

ESRD 

Less  than  half  percent 

Yes 

Institutionalized 

Data  not  yet  available 

No 

Dual  Eligibles/QMBs 

Approximately  9  percent 

Yes 

Non-whites 

Data  not  yet  available 

Yes 

Poor 

Data  not  yet  available 

No 

No  Medigap 

20  percent 

No 

MEASURES 

Sentinel  Events 

Small  percentage 

Yes 

Stage  of  Disease 

Small  percentage 

Yes,  using  ICD-9-CM  codes 

Excess  mortality 

Small  percentage 

Yes 

Number  of  Physicians 

100% 

Only  after  1/1/92** 

Use  of  Public  Providers 

Data  not  yet  available 

Possibly 

Episodes  of  Care 

Data  not  yet  available 

Yes 

Primary  Care  Utilization 

Large  percentage 

Yes 

Notes:  *  An  approximate  ZIP  code  crosswalk  can  be  obtained  by  overlaying  physical  maps  of  HPSAs  with  ZIP 

code  maps. 

b  The  mentally  disabled  may  be  identifiable  through  patterns  of  service  use  (e.g.  psychiatric  services). 

c  The  institutionalized  may  be  identifiable  through  patterns  of  service  use  (e.g.  nursing  home  care). 

d  It  may  be  possible  to  crosswalk  the  new  unique  physician  IDs  to  the  carrier-assigned  IDs  to  produce 
trend  data. 


30 


* 


TECHNICAL  NOTES  ON 
SOURCES  AND  USES  OF  DATA 
FOR  MONITORING  ACCESS 


This  section  of  the  Appendix  describes  several  sources  of  data  and  their  potential  uses  in 
monitoring  access  to  care.  The  core  of  HCFA’s  data  collection  efforts  is  the  Common 
Working  File  (CWF),  which  is  described  in  detail  in  the  first  section.  Following  that,  data 
sources  that  are  immediately  available  for  monitoring  access  are  detailed.  Finally,  data 
sources  available  only  in  the  longer  term  are  described. 


THE  COMMON  WORKING  FILE 

The  Common  Working  File  (CWF)  is  the  core  of  HCFA’s  information  systems.  All  Part 
A  and  Part  B  claims  processed  on  behalf  of  beneficiaries  end  up  in  the  CWF.  In  addition 
to  identifying  the  services  and  payments,  each  claim  also  identifies  the  beneficiary  and 
provider.  Other  files  allow  detailed  information  on  beneficiary  and  provider  characteristics 
to  be  merged  with  the  claims  information  in  the  CWF.1 

The  CWF  is  a  relatively  new  system  for  aggregating  claims  information.  A  small  portion 
of  1989  claims  were  processed  through  the  CWF,  as  were  a  significant  portion  of  1990 
claims.  As  of  January  1,  1991,  all  Part  A  and  Part  B  records  were  maintained  through  the 
CWF. 

The  CWF  represents  a  substantial  improvement  over  prior  HCFA  information  processing 
systems.  For  the  first  time,  all  Part  A  and  Part  B  claims  lines  are  maintained  in  a  single 
centralized  location  at  HCFA  in  Baltimore.  Claims  processing  has  also  been  streamlined, 
and  the  HCFA  Office  of  the  Actuary  indicates  that  claims  run-out  times  have  been  cut  in 
half.  That  is,  the  percentage  of  claims  processed  within  six  months  of  incurred  date  under 
the  CWF  is  equal  to  the  percentage  of  claims  that  had  been  processed  within  a  year  of  the 
incurred  date  under  the  old  payment  record  system. 

The  CWF  is  also  set  up  for  much  more  rapid  data  retrieval.  First,  records  for  the 
standard  HCFA  five  percent  beneficiary  sample  are  kept  on-line  (or  "near-line")  and  are 
readily  accessible  to  HCFA  staff.  Second,  HCFA  has  established  a  "prospective  tap" 
process,  where  every  accepted  CWF  transaction  (ie.,  every  clean  claim,  paid  or  denied)  is 


1  Beneficiary  information  comes  from  the  Health  Insurance  Master  (HIM)  file.  Information  on  institutional 
providers  comes  from  the  Provider  of  Services  (POS)  file.  Information  on  physicians  comes  from  the  Medicare 
Provider  Identification  and  Eligibility  System  (MPEES),  also  known  as  the  Unique  Provider  Identification  Number 
(UP IN)  file. 


31 


screened  and  copied  to  on-line  databases  based  on  beneficiary  ID,  physician  ID,  ZIP  code, 
or  other  factors.  Thus,  claims  for  specific  subsets  of  the  population  can  be  monitored  on 
a  flow  basis.* 2 

The  CWF  will  also  retain  more  information  than  previous  HCFA  data  processing  systems. 
For  the  first  time,  line-item  detail  for  all  Part  B  claims  is  retained.  Of  particular  interest, 
diagnosis  codes  (ICD-9-CM)  are  recorded  on  the  claim,  up  to  3  (possibly  4)  on  each  bill 
describing  the  patient’s  general  condition,  and  one  additional  diagnosis  for  each  procedure 
billed.  However,  the  accuracy  or  completeness  of  the  diagnosis  coding  is  not  clear  at  this 
point,  and  Commission  staff  will  inquire  further  into  this. 

The  downside  of  the  CWF  is  that  it  is  huge.  A  current  estimate  is  that  all  Part  B  bills  for 
10  percent  of  beneficiaries  for  one  year  would  require  at  least  175  standard  reels  of 
computer  tape,  and  possible  many  more.  Further,  HCFA  may  not  have  much  spare 
capacity  within  their  data  processing  center  to  generate  substantial  new  files.3 


SOURCES  AND  USES  OF  DATA  FOR  IMMEDIATE  MONITORING  OF  ACCESS 

This  section  of  the  appendix  briefly  outlines  some  strategies  for  monitoring  access  to  care 
that  might  be  put  into  place  in  time  for  the  January  1,  1992  implementation  of  physician 
payment  reform. 

Write-Off  Files  From  The  Common  Working  File 

First,  it  should  be  relatively  straightforward  to  obtain  access  to  records  for  the  standard 
HCFA  five  percent  beneficiary  sample4,  either  directly  or  by  requesting  summary  statistics 
from  HCFA.  This  may  not  be  adequate,  however,  for  some  of  the  smaller  vulnerable 
populations  identified  by  the  Panel  (eg.,  individuals  in  HPSAs),  for  analyzing  subsets  of 
the  vulnerable  populations,  or  for  applying  some  of  the  measures  of  access  that  depend 
on  fairly  rare  events,  such  as  the  sentinel  events. 


For  example,  claims  for  the  25,000  beneficiaries  in  the  Current  Beneficiary  Survey  sampling  frame  are 

cumulated  on  a  weekly  (Part  B)  or  monthly  (Part  A)  basis.  At  the  present  time,  this  is  the  largest  such 
"prospective  tap"  that  HCFA  has  installed  within  the  CWF  system. 

3  HCFA  is  doing  a  considerable  amount  of  CWF  data  processing  on  behalf  of  the  Agency  for  Health  Care 
Policy  and  Research,  which  in  turn  transfers  several  million  dollars  per  year  to  support  HCFA  <fara  processing 
efforts.  It  is  not  clear  what  priority  non-paying  requests  would  have. 

Five  percent  of  all  non-ESRD  beneficiaries,  and  100  percent  of  ESRD  beneficiaries.  This  amounts  to 
roughly  1.7  million  beneficiaries. 


32 


Second,  the  Commission  might  request  that  population-specific  files  be  created  on  batch 
basis  from  the  existing  1991  CWF  records  and  on  a  "prospective  tap"  basis  for  the  1992 
records.  This  would  require  some  negotiation  with  HCFA  data  processing  staff  and 
others,  and  the  size  of  the  population  so  sampled  would  be  constrained  by  some  notion  of 
feasibility  and  reasonableness. 

One  approach  to  monitoring  access  immediately  after  January  1,  1992  would  be  to  request 
a  sample  of  records  from  the  Common  Working  File  on  a  flow  basis.  That  is,  all  Part  A 
and  Part  B  records  for  selected  areas  or  populations  could  be  written  to  tape  cartridges 
on  a  weekly  or  monthly  basis  for  analysis. 

While  this  is  technically  feasible,  it  would  involve  a  substantial  amount  of  work,  both  at 
HCFA  and  at  the  Commission.  The  largest  "prospective  tap"  currently  in  place  in  the 
CWF  system  collects  records  for  approximately  25,000  beneficiaries,  or  less  than  0.1 
percent  of  the  beneficiary  population.  It  might  be  possible  to  acquire  information  on 
substantially  larger  samples  of  beneficiaries,  particularly  if  we  restrict  the  sampling  to  sub¬ 
samples  of  the  standard  HCFA  5  percent  beneficiary  sample.  However,  the  cost  of 
collecting  and  processing  the  data  would  grow  accordingly. 

Use  Of  HCFA  Summary  Data 

An  alternative  to  the  detail  of  the  CWF  would  be  to  analyze  summary  data  provided  by 
HCFA.  Utilization  information  for  some  of  the  geographic  areas  (eg.,  payment  areas)  and 
population  types  (eg.,  disabled,  ESRD)  may  be  tabulated  on  a  routine  basis  by  HCFA. 
However,  this  information  is  likely  to  be  in  terms  of  gross  outlays  or  outlays  by  type  of 
service,  and  we  are  not  likely  to  be  able  to  track  the  more  refined  measures  of  access. 

Currently,  most  HCFA  summary  data  are  of  two  types.  First,  there  are  a  number  of 
annual  summary  files  produced.  These  typically  track  outlays  by  geographic  area  and 
broad  beneficiary  population  groups  (eg,,  age  categories).  Typically,  these  files  have  been 
available  only  with  a  considerable  lag,  often  several  years. 

A  second  set  of  summary  statistics  consists  of  carrier  workload  reports  and  Treasury 
outlays.  These  are  often  produced  monthly,  but  are  on  paid  basis,  that  is,  they  reflect  the 
number  of  claims  processed,  not  the  amount  of  care  delivered  at  any  one  time.  Typically, 
these  reports  would  reflect  only  gross  aggregates  such  as  total  expenditure  by  type  of 
service. 

The  Commission  may  wish  to  explore  developing  an  arrangement  with  HCFA  to  generate 
some  more  detailed  and  timely  summary  statistics.  For  example,  there  are  only  about  10 
million  Part  A  final  bills  submitted  each  year.  Measures  of  access  based  on  Part  A 
utilization  (eg.,  some  of  the  sentinel  events)  might  be  tracked  fairly  easily  and  quickly  and 
on  a  reasonably  detailed  basis. 


33 


Surveys  Of  Beneficiaries  And  Physicians 


An  alternative  to  claims  data  for  monitoring  of  access  in  1992  would  be  surveys  of 
beneficiaries  or  physicians. 

Surveys  of  beneficiaries  may  be  an  important  source  of  information  on  the  immediate 
effects  of  payment  reform.  Staff  contacted  the  American  Association  of  Retired  Persons 
(AARP).  Although  AARP  used  to  do  annual  surveys  on  a  wide  range  of  issues  concerning 
older  Americans,  it  is  now  moving  to  custom  surveys  on  special  topics.  AARP  staff  have 
expressed  willingness  to  explore  cooperation  with  the  Commission  in  this  area. 

Rather  than  rely  on  existing  surveys  of  beneficiaries,  the  Commission  may  wish  to 
undertake  its  own  surveys  to  obtain  immediate  feedback  on  physician  payment  reform. 
To  obtain  reliable  estimates  for  the  geographic  areas  and  vulnerable  populations  discussed 
above,  this  would  require  a  fairly  substantial  sample  of  beneficiaries.  The  Commission 
may  wish  to  contract  with  national  survey  organizations  for  a  large-scale  survey  of 
beneficiaries. 

Physician  organizations  are  another  potential  sources  of  information  on  the  immediate 
impact  of  payment  reform.  Staff  identified  four  organizations  who  have  recently  surveyed 
physicians:  the  North  Carolina  chapter  of  the  American  Society  of  Internal  Medicine 
(NCSIM),  the  American  Academy  of  Family  Physicians,  the  Minnesota  Medical 
Association,  and  the  American  Medical  Association.  The  American  Medical  Association 
is  currently  doing  research  on  the  access  issue,  and  may  introduce  access  measures  in  it 
the  physician  surveys  that  it  routinely  fields.  The  American  Urological  Association  is  also 
conducting  a  large  survey  of  its  membership  on  access  and  other  issues.  This  is  not  an 
exhaustive  list,  and  there  are  probably  other  significant  physicians  survey  projects  of  which 
Commission  staff  are  unaware. 

Beneficiary  Focus  Groups 

A  final  option  for  immediate  feedback  on  the  impact  of  payment  reform  would  be  to 
organize  beneficiary  focus  groups.  The  Commission  has  had  some  success  (using 
Mathematica  Policy  Research  as  a  contractor)  in  conducting  some  focus-group  type  work 
in  developing  a  Commission  survey  of  beneficiary  understanding  of  assignment  and 
participation  in  the  Medicare  program.  However,  this  option  probably  would  not  lead  to 
easily  quantifiable  data. 


34 


SOURCES  AND  USES  OF  DATA  FOR  LONGER-TERM  MONITORING  OF  ACCESS 


The  principal  difference  between  the  short-run  strategies  mentioned  above  the  strategies 
available  in  the  longer  run  is  that  several  detailed  datasets  will  become  available  in  late 
1993  or  early  1994.  These  would  include  the  following: 

Part  B  Medicare  Annual  Data  (BMAD)  Files 

The  Part  B  Medicare  Annual  Data  (BMAD)  file  system  consists  of  annual  summaries  and 
samples  of  Part  B  non-institutional  claims.  Currently,  each  carrier  submit  its  BMAD  files 
to  HCFA,  which  then  edits  and  combines  the  carrier  submissions  to  generate  national  files. 
The  BMAD  files  typically  are  released  one  year  after  the  close  of  the  calendar  year. 
HCFA  staff  plan  to  continue  to  generate  BMAD-like  files  from  the  Common  Working  File 
data.  It  is  not  clear  at  this  point  whether  any  of  the  new  information  available  in  the  CWF 
record  (eg.,  diagnosis  code)  will  be  added  to  the  BMAD  records. 

There  are  four  separate  BMAD  files.  The  first  (BMAD-I)  summarizes  all  Part  B  claims 
(other  than  facility  charges)  by  carrier,  physician  specialty,  and  CPT  code.  Thus,  with 
some  modification,  this  file  could  be  used  to  calculate  area-specific  utilization  rates  for 
carrier  charge  localities.  It  could  not,  however,  be  used  to  examine  utilization  for  smaller 
areas  (eg.,  HPSAs,  ZIP  codes).  The  second  (BMAD-II)  is  the  list  of  prevailing  charges 
across  the  various  carrier  charge  localities.  It  will  become  obsolete  after  the  Medicare  Fee 
Schedule  is  introduced.  The  third  (BMAD-HI)  contains  all  claims  lines  for  a  five  percent 
sample  of  all  providers,  while  the  fourth  (BMAD-IV)  contains  all  claims  lines  for  a  five 
percent  sample  of  beneficiaries.5 

Medicare  Provider  Analysis  And  Review  (MEDPAR)  File 

The  MEDPAR  file  contains  all  Part  A  inpatient  discharge  abstracts  for  a  fiscal  year. 
These  records  retain  multiple  ICD-9-CM  procedure  and  diagnosis  codes,  as  well  as  other 
information  such  as  length  of  stay  and  discharge  status.  In  addition  to  the  standard 
MEDPAR  file,  a  relatively  new  file  called  the  QC-MEDPAR  exists.  This  file  contains 
additional  information  concerning  readmission  and  death  after  discharge  from  the  hospital. 
These  records  are  available  for  the  universe  of  Medicare  beneficiaries. 

Survey  Data 

Data  from  two  national  surveys  should  be  available  in  the  years  after  1992.  These  are  the 
Current  Beneficiary  Survey  (CBS)  and  the  Health  Interview  Survey  (HIS). 


5  Plus  100  percent  of  all  ESRD  beneficiaries. 


35 


Some  aspects  of  the  data  are  common  to  both  surveys.  First,  the  sample  sizes  are  small 
enough  to  preclude  some  levels  of  analysis.  For  example,  the  CBS  will  sample  about 
12,000  Medicare  beneficiaries,  while  the  HIS  sample  contains  roughly  the  same  number 
of  individuals  over  age  65.  This  would  make  estimates  of  some  sentinel  conditions,  smaller 
vulnerable  populations,  and  smaller  areas  relatively  volatile  across  years. 

Second,  both  surveys  contain  health  status  and  health  care  utilization  information.  For  the 
HIS,  that  information  is  based  on  the  recall  of  the  respondents.  For  the  CBS,  claims 
information  from  the  Medicare  statistical  system  will  be  appended  to  the  responses.  In 
addition,  the  CBS  will  contain  a  series  of  questions  aimed  directly  at  changes  in  access. 

Other  Non-Medicare  Trend  Data 

A  further  option  in  the  long  run  would  be  to  track  expenditures  and  utilization  for 
populations  other  than  Medicare.  Several  sources  of  non-Medicare  data  may  be  available. 

State  Hospital  Discharge  Abstract  Data.  Currently  29  states  have  some  mandate  to 
generate  hospital  utilization  information.  However,  only  about  14  states  generate  usable 
hospital  discharge  abstract  files.6  In  addition,  this  information  is  generally  available  only 
with  a  considerable  lag.  For  instance,  no  state  has  a  1990  file  yet  available,  several  states 
have  1989  files,  but  the  majority  of  states  have  only  a  1988  or  earlier  file  available. 

One  possible  alternative  to  the  use  of  state  hospital  discharge  abstracting  systems  is  the 
Commission  on  Professional  and  Hospital  Activities  (CPHA)  data.  CPHA  collects  hospital 
discharge  abstract  information  on  a  very  timely  basis  from  some  of  its  member  hospitals. 
However,  the  sample  of  CPHA  reporting  hospitals  is  not  uniformly  distributed  across 
areas,  and  it  may  be  difficult  to  generate  population-based  use  rates  from  these  data. 

The  MEDSTAT  Data.  MEDSTAT  gathers  claims  for  the  employees  of  approximately  100 
large  organizations  and  analyzes  those  claims  for  their  client  organizations.  MEDSTAT 
currently  produces  about  30  million  outpatient  claims  annually,  with  a  reasonably  even 
geographic  distribution  across  urbanized  areas  of  the  U.S.  They  claim  to  be  able  to 
generate  good  national  use  rates,  but  cannot  generate  reliable  state-level  utilization  rates 
for  much  of  their  data.  However,  for  about  half  of  their  data,  they  can  generate 
population-based  utilization  rates  for  sub-national  areas. 

The  HIAA  Data.  The  Health  Insurance  Association  of  America  (HIAA)  produces  data 
showing  submitted  and  covered  charges  for  a  number  of  procedures.  However,  those  data 


6  This  information  comes  from  a  recent  telephone  survey  conducted  by  Greg  Dodds  of  Consolidated 
Consulting  Group.  Many  of  the  largest  states  have  discharge  abstract  datasets,  including  New  York,  California, 
and  Florida. 


36 


have  generally  been  used  for  pricing  purposes,  and  it  is  not  clear  that  good  utilization  rates 
can  be  calculated  from  them. 

National  Center  for  Health  Statistics.  The  NCHS  gathers  information  on  a  number  of 
important  medical  services  for  a  sample  of  the  U.S.  population  using  the  HIS  and  other 
sources.  These  data  may  be  sufficient  for  national  comparison  with  Medicare  trends. 

Other.  Other  payers  may  be  willing  to  provide  data  for  their  populations.  The  Civilian 
Health  and  Medical  Program  for  the  Uniformed  Services  (CHAMPUS)  is  national  in 
scope  and  maintains  detailed  utilization  files  on  its  enrollees.  Similarly,  the  Federal 
Employees’  Program  (FEP)  is  the  national  Blue  Cross  and  Blue  Shield  insurer  for  Federal 
employees.  It  too  collects  detailed  claims  information  across  the  United  States. 
Commission  staff  have  not  contacted  either  of  these  institutions  yet  to  inquire  about  data 
availability. 


37 


SUMMARY  AND  TENTATIVE  WORKPLAN 


This  appendix  has  described  in  detail  many  feasible  approaches  to  monitoring  access  both 
immediately  and  in  the  longer  run.  The  Commission  is  now  considering  its  options  for 
monitoring  access. 

Clearly,  the  first  focus  of  work  must  be  on  access  measures  to  be  put  into  place  prior  to 
the  implementation  of  physician  payment  reform.  The  phase-in  of  the  Medicare  Fee 
Schedule  is  now  less  than  a  year  away,  and  any  action  that  will  be  taken  to  monitor  access 
in  the  short  run  must  be  planned  and  implemented  now. 

In  terms  of  data  sources,  at  this  juncture  probably  the  most  reasonable  approach  is  to 
concentrate  on  readily  available  HCFA  claims  datasets.  Part  B  claims  for  the  standard  5 
percent  beneficiary  sample,  and  Part  A  claims  for  all  beneficiaries  are  both  large  but 
manageable  files.  Thus,  analysis  for  the  first  year  may  focus  on  these  two  files. 

Much  work  needs  to  be  done  to  validate  the  numerous  proposed  measures  of  access  using 
existing  data.  Existing  historical  files  (the  BMAD  and  MEDPAR  files)  provide  claims 
information  for  5  percent  of  Part  B  and  100  percent  of  Part  A  claims.  Thus,  these 
historical  files  can  be  used  to  examine  the  validity  and  reliability  of  the  various  measures 
of  access  discussed  here.  Once  having  settled  on  a  reliable  set  of  measures,  the 
Commission  may  pursue  obtaining  more  recent  data  from  HCFA  and  tracking  trends  in 
these  measures  of  access. 

The  Commission  will  also  examine  the  availability  of  beneficiary  and  physician  survey  data. 
While  probably  less  precise  than  claims  files,  such  data  could  provide  a  meaningful  and 
timely  supplement  to  claims-based  analysis. 

Finally,  the  Commission  reiterates  its  belief  that  HCFA  should  routinely  report  detailed 
Part  A  and  Part  B  utilization  statistics  in  a  manner  that  will  allow  other  interested  parties 
to  assess  changes  in  beneficiaries’  access  to  care.  A  common  set  of  data  available  to  all 
would  enhance  dialogue  on  beneficiaries’  access  to  care  and  preserve  confidence  in  the 
Medicare  program. 


REFERENCES 

Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Report  to  Congress:  Monitoring  Changes  in  Use 
of,  Access  to,  and  Appropriateness  of  Part  B  Medicare  Services,  U.S.  Department  of 
Health  and  Human  Services,  Washington,  DC,  1991. 


38 


Health  Resources  and  Services  Administration,  Incorporating  Health  Status  Indicators  into 
the  Measurement  of  Medical  Underservice,  Contract  Number  240-86-0056,  Health 
Resources  and  Services  Administration,  Public  Health  Service,  U.S.  Department 
of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Washington,  DC,  1987. 

Physician  Payment  Review  Commission,  Medicare  Volume  Performance  Standard  Rate  of 
Increase  for  Fiscal  Year  1991 ,  Washington,  DC,  1990. 

United  Hospital  Fund  of  New  York,  Measuring  Avoidable  Deaths  and  Diseases  in  New  York 
State ,  United  Hospital  Fund  of  New  York  Paper  Series  8,  January  1988. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  009  817  175  7 


. 


* 

> 

% 

