area  handbook  series 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

country  studies 


7 


o 


Nepal  and  Bhutan 

country  studies 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Andrea  Matles  Savada 
Research  Completed 
September  1991 


On  the  cover:  Mountains  and  monasteries  are  typical  of  both 
Nepal  and  Bhutan. 


Third  Edition,  First  Printing,  1993. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Nepal  and  Bhutan  :  country  studies  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library 
of  Congress  ;  edited  by  Andrea  Matles  Savada.  —  3rd  ed. 

p.    cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294) 
(DA  pam  ;  550-35) 

"Supersedes  the  1973  edition  of  Area  handbook  for  Nepal, 
Bhutan,  and  Sikkim  written  by  George  L.  Harris,  et  al." — T.p. 
verso. 

"Research  completed  September  1991." 

Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp.  369-393)  and  index. 

ISBN  0-8444-0777-1 

1.  Nepal.  2.  Bhutan.    I.  Savada,  Andrea  Matles,  1950-    .  II. 
Library  of  Congress.  Federal  Research  Division.  III.  Area  hand- 
book for  Nepal  and  Bhutan.  IV.  Series.  V.  Series:  DA  pam  ; 


550-35. 
DS491.4.N46  1993 
954.96— dc20 


93-12226 
CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 


DA  Pam  550-35 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared  by 
the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress  under 
the  Country  Studies/ Area  Handbook  Program  sponsored  by  the 
Department  of  the  Army.  The  last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other 
published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


iii 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  wish  to  thank  the  various  individuals  and  organi- 
zations that  provided  assistance  in  the  preparation  of  this  book. 
Allen  W.  Thrasher,  Asian  Division,  and  Lygia  M.  Ballantyne  and 
the  staff  of  the  New  Delhi  Field  Office  of  the  Library  of  Congress 
provided  useful  and  timely  research  materials  from  Bhutan.  Karl 
Ryavec  of  the  Defense  Mapping  Agency  verified  hard-to-locate 
Nepalese  and  Bhutanese  place-names  and  spellings.  Staff  of  the 
Royal  Nepalese  Embassy  in  Washington  provided  photographs, 
statistical  data,  and  the  clarification  of  information.  Staff  of  the 
Permanent  Mission  to  the  United  Nations  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bhu- 
tan kindly  provided  maps,  photographs,  and  documentary  infor- 
mation on  Bhutan. 

Special  thanks  goes  to  Brian  C.  Shaw  for  lending  his  expertise 
on  Nepal  and  Bhutan  in  serving  as  reader  of  the  completed 
manuscript.  Additionally,  Thierry  Mathou,  a  member  of  the  staff 
of  the  Embassy  of  France  in  Washington,  who  is  preparing  his  own 
manuscript  on  Bhutan,  reviewed  the  Bhutan  text  and  provided  help- 
ful research  materials  and  insights.  Gopal  Siwkoti,  then  an  attor- 
ney with  the  Washington-based  International  Human  Rights  Law 
Group,  also  provided  materials  and  shared  his  insights  on  the  de- 
velopment of  Nepalese  politics  during  the  prodemocracy  movement. 
Tshering  Dorji,  director  of  the  Department  of  Telecommunications 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Bhutan,  graciously  allowed  the  author  of  the 
Bhutan  chapter  to  interview  him  when  he  visited  the  Library  of 
Congress  and  reviewed  and  suggested  corrections  to  the  section 
on  Bhutan's  telecommunications.  Thanks  are  also  due  Ralph  K. 
Benesch,  who  oversees  the  Country  Studies/Area  Handbook  Pro- 
gram for  the  Department  of  the  Army. 

Thanks  also  go  to  staff  members  of  the  Federal  Research  Divi- 
sion of  the  Library  of  Congress  who  directly  assisted  with  the  book. 
Sandra  W.  Meditz  reviewed  the  entire  manuscript  and  made  use- 
ful suggestions;  David  P.  Cabitto  prepared  the  layout  and  graph- 
ics; Marilyn  Majeska  supervised  editing  and  managed  production; 
Andrea  Merrill  provided  invaluable  assistance  in  preparing  the  ta- 
bles; Timothy  L.  Merrill  reviewed  the  maps  and  geography  and 
telecommunications  sections;  Ly  Burnham  reviewed  sections  on 
demography;  Alberta  J.  King  provided  secondary- source  research 
assistance  in  the  preparation  of  Chapter  6  and  bibliographic  as- 
sistance for  other  chapters;  and  Izella  Watson  and  Barbara  Edg- 
erton  performed  word  processing. 


v 


The  following  individuals  are  gratefully  acknowledged  as  well: 
Harriett  R.  Blood  for  preparing  the  topography  and  drainage  maps; 
Barbara  Harrison  and  Beverly  J .  Wolpert  for  editing  the  body  of 
the  book;  Catherine  Schwartzstein  for  prepublication  editorial 
review;  Joan  C.  Cook  for  preparing  the  index;  Joyce  L.  Rahim 
for  word-processing  support;  and  Malinda  B.  Neale  and  Linda 
Peterson  of  the  Printing  and  Processing  Section,  Library  of  Con- 
gress, for  phototypesetting,  under  the  direction  of  Peggy  Pixley. 

Finally,  the  authors  acknowledge  the  generosity  of  the  individuals 
and  the  public  and  private  agencies  who  allowed  their  photographs 
to  be  used  in  this  study. 


vi 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword   iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface      xiii 

Introduction                                     ,   XV 

Table  A.  Nepal:  Chronology  of  Important 

Events      xxix 

Nepal:  Country  Profile      xxxiii 

Chapter  1.  Nepal:  Historical  Setting    1 

James  Heitzman 

ANCIENT  NEPAL,  ca.  500  B.C.-A.D.  700    4 

Early  Influences  on  Nepal    4 

The  Early  Kingdom  of  the  Licchavis,  400-750    6 

MEDIEVAL  NEPAL,  750-1750    9 

Transition  to  the  Medieval  Kingdom,  750-1000    9 

The  Malla  Kings   10 

The  Three  Kingdoms    12 

THE  MAKING  OF  MODERN  NEPAL    15 

The  Expansion  of  Gorkha    15 

The  Struggle  for  Power  at  Court   18 

The  Enclosing  of  Nepal   20 

Infighting  among  Aristocratic  Factions    23 

RANA  RULE    26 

The  Kot  Massacre   26 

The  Dictatorship  of  Jang  Bahadur    27 

The  Rana  Oligarchy    32 

The  Growth  of  Political  Parties   36 

The  Return  of  the  King    38 

The  Democratic  Experiment    41 

The  Panchayat  System  under  King  Mahendra    44 

Modernization  under  King  Birendra   48 

Chapter  2.  Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its 

Environment    53 

Nanda  R.  Shrestha 

GEOGRAPHY    56 

The  Land    56 


vii 


Climate    60 

The  River  System    62 

POPULATION    65 

Population  Structure  and  Settlement  Patterns    65 

Urbanization    67 

Migration    69 

Population  Planning    72 

Caste  and  Ethnicity   74 

SOCIAL  SYSTEM  AND  VALUES    81 

Rural  Society  and  Kinship    83 

Women's  Status  and  Role  in  Society    86 

Social  Classes  and  Stratification    87 

RELIGION    88 

Religion  and  Society    88 

Hinduism    90 

Buddhism    91 

EDUCATION   92 

Education  under  Rana  Rule    92 

Education  since  1951    94 

HEALTH    98 

Diseases  and  Disease  Control    98 

Health-Care  Facilities    100 

Chapter  3.  Nepal:  The  Economy    105 

Vishwa  S.  Shukla 

ECONOMIC  SETTING   107 

ROLE  OF  GOVERNMENT    108 

The  Five- Year  Plans    108 

Other  Development  Programs    112 

BUDGETING  PROCESS   113 

Regular  and  Development  Budget   113 

Taxation    113 

MONEY  AND  BANKING    114 

FOREIGN  TRADE    116 

BALANCE  OF  PAYMENTS    118 

FOREIGN  AID   119 

LABOR   121 

AGRICULTURE    122 

LAND  REFORM    124 

FORESTS    125 

INDUSTRY    126 

Manufacturing   127 

Private  Industry    127 


Vlll 


Public  Companies    128 

Minerals    128 

ENERGY    129 

TRANSPORTATION    133 

Roads    133 

Railroads    135 

Ropeways    136 

Civil  Aviation    136 

Other  Modes  of  Transportation    137 

COMMUNICATIONS    137 

TOURISM    138 

PROBLEMS  AND  PROSPECTS   139 

Chapter  4.  Nepal:  Government  and  Politics    ....  143 

Enayetur  Rahim 

CONSTITUTIONAL  DEVELOPMENT   146 

The  Rana  System    146 

The  Interim  Constitution,  1951   147 

The  Royal  Constitution  of  1959    148 

The  Panchayat  Constitution,  1962    149 

Constitutional  Amendments    150 

The  Referendum  of  1980    150 

The  Constitution  of  1990    152 

Other  Features  of  the  Constitution    154 

The  Executive    154 

The  Legislature    155 

The  Judiciary    157 

The  Civil  Service   159 

The  Administrative  System    159 

POLITICAL  DYNAMICS    161 

The  Panchayat  System    161 

Political  Parties    166 

Elections    171 

THE  MEDIA    176 

FOREIGN  POLICY    179 

Relations  with  India    180 

Relations  with  Other  South  Asian  Nations    183 

Relations  with  China   184 

Relations  with  the  United  States    187 

Relations  with  Britain    189 

Relations  with  the  Soviet  Union    189 

Relations  with  Other  Countries   190 

International  and  Regional  Organizations   190 


IX 


Chapter  5.  Nepal:  National  Security    195 

Douglas  C.  Makeig 

ARMED  FORCES  AND  SOCIETY    198 

Origins  of  the  Legendary  Gurkha    198 

From  the  Anglo-Nepalese  War  to  World  War  II    ....  200 

Arrangements  after  World  War  II   203 

Legal  Basis  under  the  1990  Constitution   205 

ORGANIZATION  OF  THE  ARMED  FORCES   208 

Defense  Spending    209 

Missions    211 

Force  Dispositions  and  Capabilities   214 

Recruitment,  Training,  and  Morale    216 

Rank  Structure  and  Insignia   221 

Gurkhas  Serving  Abroad   223 

MILITARY  JUSTICE    225 

THE  POLICE  SYSTEM    226 

THE  JUDICIAL  SYSTEM    228 

The  Legal  Code    228 

The  Court  System   229 

THE  SECURITY  ENVIRONMENT   231 

India    232 

China    236 

Internal  Security  Considerations    237 

THE  MILITARY  IN  THE  EARLY  1990s    239 

Table  B.  Bhutan:  Chronology  of  Important 

Events    241 

Bhutan:  Country  Profile    245 

Chapter  6.  Bhutan    251 

Robert  L.  Worden 

HISTORICAL  SETTING    253 

Origins  and  Early  Settlement,  A.D.  600-1600    253 

Theocratic  Government,  1616-1907    256 

Establishment  of  the  Hereditary  Monarchy,  1907  ....  261 

Development  of  Centralized  Government,  1926-52  .  .  .  263 

Modernization  under  Jigme  Dorji,  1952-72    263 

Entering  the  Outside  World,  1972-86    266 

THE  SOCIETY  AND  ITS  ENVIRONMENT   266 

Geography   266 

Population    272 

Social  System    276 

Religious  Tradition    281 


x 


Education    284 

Health    287 

THE  ECONOMY   289 

The  Economic  Context    289 

Role  of  the  Government    290 

Foreign  Economic  Relations   295 

Agriculture    298 

Forestry    301 

Industry,  Mining,  Energy,  and  Commerce    303 

Labor  Force   306 

Transportation  and  Communications    306 

Tourism   312 

GOVERNMENT  AND  POLITICS    313 

The  Monarchy    313 

Structure  of  the  Government   315 

Political  Developments   323 

The  Media    328 

Foreign  Relations    328 

NATIONAL  SECURITY    335 

Strategic  Location    335 

Armed  Forces    336 

Paramilitary   339 

Police  Force   340 

Legal  System   341 

Appendix.  Tables   345 

Bibliography    369 

Glossary    395 

Index   401 

List  of  Figures 

1  Nepal:  Zonal  Administrative  Divisions,  1991   xxxii 

2  Nepal  and  Bhutan,  1991   16 

3  Nepal,  1815    24 

4  Nepal:  Geographic  Regions    58 

5  Nepal:  Topography  and  Drainage    64 

6  Nepal:  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex,  1988  ....  68 

7  Nepal:  Distribution  of  Principal  Ethnic  Groups,  1990   ....  78 

8  Nepal:  Shares  of  Gross  Domestic  Product,  1989    126 

9  Nepal:  Transportation  System,  1991    134 

10  Nepal:  Structure  of  the  Government,  1991   156 

11  Nepal:  Organization  of  the  Armed  Forces,  1991    210 


xi 


12  Nepal:  Military  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1991    222 

13  Bhutan:  Administrative  Divisions,  1991    244 

14  Bhutan:  Topography  and  Drainage    268 

15  Bhutan:  Population  Distribution  by  Age 

and  Sex,  1988    274 

16  Bhutan:  Transportation  System,  1988    310 

17  Bhutan:  Structure  of  the  Government,  1991    320 


xii 


Preface 


This  is  the  first  edition  of  Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies.  It 
supersedes  the  1973  Area  Handbook  for  Nepal,  Bhutan,  and  Sikkim. 
The  material  on  Nepal  is  presented  in  the  standard  five-chapter 
format  of  the  country  study  series.  A  sixth  chapter,  on  Bhutan, 
covers  the  subjects  addressed  in  the  five  Nepal  chapters,  but  in  a 
single  chapter.  The  material  on  Sikkim  has  been  dropped;  readers 
should  consult  India:  A  Country  Study  for  information  on  Sikkim. 

Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies  is  an  effort  to  present  an  objec- 
tive and  concise  account  of  the  social,  economic,  political,  and  na- 
tional security  concerns  of  contemporary  Nepal  and  Bhutan  within 
historical  frameworks.  A  variety  of  scholarly  monographs  and  jour- 
nals, official  reports  of  government  and  international  organizations, 
and  foreign  and  domestic  newspapers  and  periodicals  were  used 
as  sources.  Brief  commentary  on  some  of  the  more  useful  and  readily 
accessible  sources  appears  at  the  end  of  each  chapter.  Full  refer- 
ences to  these  and  other  sources  appear  in  the  Bibliography.  The 
annual  editions  of  the  Bibliography  of  Asian  Studies  will  provide  the 
reader  with  additional  materials  on  Nepal  and  Bhutan. 

The  authors  have  limited  the  use  of  foreign  and  technical  terms, 
which  are  defined  when  they  first  appear.  Readers  are  also  referred 
to  the  Glossary  at  the  back  of  the  volume.  Spellings  of  contem- 
porary place-names  generally  are  those  approved  by  the  United 
States  Board  on  Geographic  Names.  All  measurements  are  given 
in  the  metric  system.  A  conversion  table  is  provided  for  those  readers 
who  may  not  be  familiar  with  metric  equivalents  (see  table  1 ,  Ap- 
pendix). 

The  body  of  the  text  reflects  information  available  as  of  Septem- 
ber 1991.  Certain  other  portions  of  the  text,  however,  have  been 
updated.  The  Introduction  discusses  significant  events  that  have 
occurred  since  the  completion  of  research,  the  Country  Profile  in- 
cludes updated  information  as  available,  and  the  Bibliography  in- 
cludes recendy  published  sources  thought  to  be  particularly  helpful 
to  the  reader. 


xiii 


Introduction 


THE  HIMALAYAN  KINGDOMS  of  Nepal  and  Bhutan  share 
a  history  of  influence  by  Tibet,  China,  and  India,  and  an  inter- 
lude of  British  colonial  guidance.  Although  the  kingdoms  are  not 
contiguous,  each  country  is  bordered  by  China  to  the  north  and 
India  on  its  other  peripheries.  Both  kingdoms  are  ruled  by  heredi- 
tary monarchs  and  are  traditional  societies  with  predominantly 
agricultural  economies;  their  cultures,  however,  differ.  Nepal's  Hin- 
duism, a  legacy  of  India's  influence,  defines  its  culture  and  caste- 
structured  society.  Bhutan's  Buddhist  practices  and  culture  reflect 
India's  influence  by  way  of  Tibet.  The  two  countries'  legal  sys- 
tems also  reflect  their  heritage.  Nepal's  judicial  system  blends  Hindu 
legal  and  English  common  law  traditions.  Bhutan's  legal  system 
is  based  on  Buddhist  law  and  English  common  law. 

Nepal  has  existed  as  a  kingdom  centered  in  the  Kathmandu  Val- 
ley for  more  than  1,500  years  (see  fig.  1).  The  country  is  known 
for  its  majestic  Himalayas  and  has  nine  of  the  fourteen  peaks  in 
the  world  over  8,000  meters,  including  Mount  Everest  and  An- 
napurna  I. 

Modern  Nepal  began  its  evolution  in  the  sixteenth  century  with 
the  founding  of  the  House  of  Gorkha  by  Dravya  Shah  in  1559. 
In  the  late  eighteenth  century,  Gorkha  conquests  extended  the  king- 
dom through  the  Himalayas  for  almost  1 ,500  kilometers  from  the 
western  boundary  of  Garhwal,  India,  through  the  territory  of  Sik- 
kim  in  the  east.  In  the  early  nineteenth  century,  Gorkha  power 
came  into  conflict  with  the  British  East  India  Company.  The  result- 
ing Anglo-Nepalese  War  (1814-16)  was  devastating  for  Nepal:  the 
Treaty  of  Sagauli  reduced  the  kingdom  to  the  boundaries  it  has 
since  occupied,  less  than  900  kilometers  from  east  to  west.  For 
almost  thirty  years  after  the  treaty  was  concluded,  infighting  among 
aristocratic  factions  characterized  Nepal. 

The  next  stage  of  Nepalese  politics  was  the  period  of  hereditary 
Rana  rule — the  establishment  of  a  dictatorship  of  successive  Rana 
prime  ministers  beginning  with  Jang  Bahadur  Kunwar  in  1846. 
During  the  period  of  Rana  rule,  which  lasted  until  the  end  of  1950, 
Nepal  was  governed  by  a  landed  aristocracy;  parliamentary  govern- 
ment was  in  name  only.  This  period  provided  stability,  but  also 
inhibited  political  and  economic  development  because  the  Ranas 
isolated  the  country  and  exercised  total  control  over  internal  affairs. 
Although  during  this  period  Nepal  was  a  constitutional  monarchy 
with  universal  suffrage  granted  at  age  eighteen,  political  parties 


xv 


were  not  formed  until  the  mid-twentieth  century  and  were  later 
banned.  The  longevity  of  the  Rana  dictatorship  was  also  a  result 
of  a  partnership  between  the  rulers  and  the  army.  Patronage  en- 
sured loyal  soldiers:  the  military  supported  the  Rana  prime  ministers 
and,  later,  the  Shah  monarchs,  who  were  figureheads  during  Rana 
rule. 

In  January  1951 ,  the  Ranas  were  forced  to  concede  to  the  resto- 
ration of  the  monarchy,  which  then  assumed  charge  of  all  execu- 
tive powers:  financial  management,  appointment  of  government 
officials,  and  command  of  the  armed  forces.  The  latter  power  be- 
came an  increasingly  useful  tool  for  enforcing  control.  In  1962  King 
Mahendra  Bir  Bikram  Shah  Dev  devised  the  centrally  controlled 
partyless  council  system  of  government  called  panchayat  (see  Glos- 
sary). This  system  served  as  the  institutional  basis  of  the  king's 
rule  and  was  envisioned  by  the  palace  as  a  democratic  administra- 
tion although  it  functioned  only  at  the  king's  behest.  Incorporated 
into  the  1962  constitution,  the  panchayat  system  was  established  at 
the  village,  district,  and  national  levels.  Successive  changes  in 
government  and  constitutional  revisions  did  not  weaken  the  pow- 
ers of  the  absolute  monarchy.  In  fact,  a  May  1980  referendum 
reaffirmed  the  status  quo  of  the  panchayat  system  and  its  continua- 
tion as  a  rubber  stamp  for  the  king.  Elections  in  1981  and  1986 
were  characterized  by  the  lack  of  political  programs. 

Government  by  an  absolute  monarch  behind  a  democratic  fa- 
cade lasted  for  some  thirty  years.  Although  many  party  members 
were  exiled  to  India,  opposition  to  the  government  and  the  pan- 
chayat system  continued  to  grow,  particularly  in  the  late  1980s  when 
the  outlawed  political  parties  announced  a  drive  for  a  multiparty 
system.  A  coalition  between  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  and  the 
Communist  Party  of  Nepal  was  formed  in  late  1989.  The  increas- 
ing disillusionment  with  and  unpopularity  of  King  Birendra  Bir 
Bikram  Shah  Dev's  regime  and  the  worsening  economic  situation 
caused  by  the  trade  and  transit  dispute  with  India  added  to  the 
momentum  of  the  incipient  prodemocracy  movement. 

The  dissolution  of  the  Berlin  Wall  and  the  Soviet  Union,  and 
the  successes  of  the  prodemocracy  movements  in  Eastern  Europe 
in  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s,  had  an  impact  in  Nepal.  In  part 
as  a  result  of  the  participatory  experiences  of  Nepalese  in  India, 
movements  arose  to  effect  changes  in  Nepal's  government  and 
society.  Nepal's  longstanding  history  of  continuity  of  rule  and  rela- 
tive stability  was  challenged  when  the  Movement  for  the  Restora- 
tion of  Democracy,  or  prodemocracy  movement,  was  formally 
established  on  February  18,  1990,  almost  forty  years  after  the  end 
of  Rana  control.  Demonstrations  and  rallies — accompanied  by 

xvi 


violence,  arrests,  and  even  deaths — were  held  throughout  the  coun- 
try. Political  unrest  became  widespread.  Ethnic  groups  agitated 
for  official  recognition  of  their  cultural  heritage  and  linguistic  tra- 
dition and  demonstrated  against  the  monarchy.  The  goal  of  the 
prodemocracy  movement,  however,  was  to  establish  a  more 
representative  democracy  and  to  end  the  panchayat  system. 

The  demonstrations  and  protests  characterizing  the  prodemocracy 
movement  gained  momentum  when  the  ban  on  political  parties  and 
activities  was  lifted  in  April  1990.  That  same  month,  the  prime 
minister  resigned,  the  Council  of  Ministers  and  the  Rashtriya  Pan- 
chayat (National  Panchayat,  or  Parliament)  were  dissolved,  and 
talks  with  the  opposition  were  begun.  A  multiparty  interim  gov- 
ernment replaced  the  panchayat  system.  The  king  nominated  a 
four-member  council,  established  a  Constitution  Recommendation 
Commission,  and  announced  that  he  would  begin  an  official  in- 
quiry into  the  deaths  that  had  resulted  from  the  prodemocracy 
demonstrations.  In  mid-May,  a  general  amnesty  was  declared  for 
all  political  prisoners.  A  draft  constitution  was  announced  in  the 
summer  of  1990.  King  Birendra  wanted  the  draft  amended  to  give 
him  more  leverage,  but  subsequent  negotiations  did  not  yield  as 
much  as  he  desired.  In  November  1990,  the  king  finally  approved 
and  promulgated  a  new,  more  democratic  constitution  that  vested 
sovereignty  in  the  people. 

The  panchayat  system  finally  ended  in  May  1991,  when  general 
elections,  deemed  "generally  fair,  free,  and  open"  by  an  interna- 
tional election  inspection  team,  were  held.  Approximately  65  per- 
cent of  the  populace  voted.  Although  more  than  forty  political 
parties  registered  with  the  election  commission,  only  twenty  polit- 
ical parties — mostly  small,  communist  splinter  groups — were  on 
the  ballot.  The  Nepali  Congress  Party  won  110  of  the  205  seats 
in  the  House  of  Representatives,  and  the  Communist  Party  of  Nepal 
(United  Marxist-Leninist)  won  69  seats.  Previously  operating  in 
exile  and  behind  the  scenes,  the  various  communist  and  other  parties 
and  coalitions  became  a  powerful  presence  in  the  newly  constitut- 
ed bicameral  Parliament.  Nepal  continued  its  gradual  move  toward 
a  multiparty  democracy. 

Prodemocracy  protests  continued  unabated.  Demonstrations 
were  held  on  February  18,  1992,  the  second  anniversary  of  the 
founding  of  the  prodemocracy  movement.  In  early  April  1992,  rival 
student  groups  clashed,  and  communist  and  leftist  opposition  groups 
called  for  a  general  strike  as  a  response  to  double-digit  inflation 
and  a  more  than  60  percent  increase  in  water  and  electricity  rates. 
As  a  result  of  skirmishes  between  the  police  and  demonstrators, 
a  curfew  was  imposed.  In  addition,  the  government  banned  primary 


xvii 


and  secondary  schoolteachers  from  political  activities  and  from  join- 
ing or  campaigning  for  political  parties. 

Elections  to  the  village  development  committees  and  municipal- 
ities were  held  in  late  May  1992;  the  elections  pitted  the  various 
communist  factions  and  other  parties  against  the  Nepali  Congress 
Party  administration  of  Prime  Minister  Girija  Prasad  (G.P.)  Koirala. 
More  than  90,000  civilian  and  security  personnel  were  assigned 
to  safeguard  the  elections.  In  contrast  to  the  May  1991  parliamen- 
tary election,  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  routed  the  communists 
in  the  urban  areas  and  even  made  some  gains  in  the  rural  areas. 
The  Nepali  Congress  Party  won  331  positions,  or  56  percent  of 
the  seats,  in  the  municipalities;  the  Communist  Party  of  Nepal 
(United  Marxist- Leninist)  won  119  seats,  or  20  percent  of  the  seats; 
and  other  lesser  parties  won  the  remainder  of  the  seats.  In  newly 
established  village  development  committees,  the  Nepali  Congress 
Party  won  21 ,461  positions;  the  Communist  Party  of  Nepal  (United 
Marxist- Leninist)  won  11,175  seats. 

The  Nepalese  army  has  long  been  intertwined  with  the  monar- 
chy; the  1990  constitution,  however,  changed  the  relationship  be- 
tween the  military  and  the  king.  For  the  first  time,  the  military 
no  longer  was  solely  an  instrument  of  the  king;  it  was  also  subor- 
dinate to  the  authority  of  Parliament.  Although  under  the  consti- 
tution the  king  retains  his  title  as  the  supreme  commander  of  the 
army,  the  functional  commander  in  chief  is  appointed  on  the  recom- 
mendation of  the  prime  minister.  Although  both  the  king  and  the 
government  are  responsible  for  implementing  national  security  and 
military  policy,  the  king's  power  to  declare  a  state  of  national  emer- 
gency and  to  conduct  foreign  affairs  has  national  security  impli- 
cations. 

Nepal  is  noted  for  its  famed  Gurkha  soldiers.  Gurkhas  served 
both  at  home  and  abroad  in  the  British,  Indian,  Singapore,  and 
Brunei  armies.  Their  remittances  to  Nepal  were  of  primary  im- 
portance to  the  economy  and  served  as  an  important  source  of  for- 
eign exchange.  By  1997,  however,  the  number  of  Gurkhas  serving 
in  the  British  army  is  expected  to  be  reduced  from  8,000  to  2,500 
persons,  and  the  Gurkha  garrison  in  Hong  Kong  is  scheduled  to 
be  withdrawn  gradually  in  the  period  up  to  1995.  As  of  April  1992, 
a  token  number  of  Gurkhas  were  serving  in  a  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  force  in  the  former  Yugoslavia. 

The  difficulty  of  replacing  Nepal's  long  tradition  of  autocracy 
with  a  democracy,  coupled  with  the  economic  challenges  posed  by 
physical  geography  and  location,  was  daunting.  As  of  1992,  many 
of  the  prescribed  changes  had  only  just  been  instituted,  or  were 
still  to  come.  Many  observers  expected  that  the  populist  experiment 


xvin 


of  a  multiparty  democracy  would  meet  with  eventual  failure  and 
that  the  monarchy  and  the  army  would  return  to  some  type  of 
power- sharing  formula. 

Nepal's  population,  estimated  in  1990  as  approximately  19.1  mil- 
lion, is  very  diverse.  The  country  is  home  to  more  than  a  dozen 
ethnic  groups,  which  originate  from  three  major  ethnic  divisions: 
Indo-Nepalese,  Tibeto-Nepalese,  and  indigenous  Nepalese.  Eth- 
nic identity — distinguished  primarily  by  language  and  dress — 
constrains  the  selection  of  a  spouse,  friendships,  and  career,  and 
is  evident  in  social  organization,  occupation,  and  religious  obser- 
vances. Hinduism  is  the  official  religion  of  Nepal,  although,  in  fact, 
the  religion  practiced  by  the  majority  of  Nepalese  is  a  synthesis 
of  Hinduism  and  Buddhism  and  the  practices  have  intermingled 
over  time.  The  socioeconomic  ramifications  of  the  country's  diver- 
sity have  proven  problematic  for  Nepal  in  the  late  twentieth  century. 

Considered  a  least-developed  country,  Nepal  depends  heavily 
on  farming,  which  accounts  for  most  of  the  country's  gross  domestic 
product.  The  work  force  is  largely  unskilled  and  mostly  illiterate. 
Nepal's  industrial  base  was  established  in  the  1930s,  but  little 
progress  has  been  made  in  improving  economic  performance.  In 
the  early  1990s,  tourism  was  one  of  the  largest  sources  of  foreign 
exchange;  visitors  from  the  United  States  were  the  most  numerous. 

Social  status  in  Nepal  is  measured  by  economic  standing.  Land- 
ownership  is  both  a  measure  of  status  and  a  source  of  income.  Wom- 
en occupy  a  secondary  position,  particularly  in  business  and  the 
civil  service,  although  the  constitution  guarantees  equality  between 
men  and  women.  Nepalese  tribal  and  communal  customs  dictate 
women's  lesser  role  in  society,  but  their  status  differs  from  one  ethnic 
group  to  another  and  is  usually  determined  by  caste. 

As  of  1992,  education  was  free  and  compulsory  for  five  years; 
however  males  had  literacy  rates  about  three  times  higher  than  the 
rates  for  females  and  higher  school  enrollment  levels.  There  were 
relatively  few  other  social  services  in  the  country.  The  absence  of 
modern  medical  care,  clean  drinking  water,  and  adequate  sanita- 
tion resulted  in  the  prevalence  of  gastrointestinal  diseases.  Mal- 
nutrition was  also  a  problem,  particularly  in  rural  areas.  A  period 
of  drought  in  1992  was  expected  to  cause  further  food  shortages, 
especially  of  grain.  The  country  has  consistently  had  high  mor- 
bidity and  death  rates. 

Economic  assistance  from  other  countries,  especially  India,  has 
been  vital  to  Nepal.  Since  the  1980s,  however,  bilateral  aid  and 
multilateral  assistance  programs  from  countries  other  than  India 
have  been  an  increasingly  important  part  of  development  planning. 


xix 


Nepal  has  received  aid  from  both  the  United  States  and  communist 
countries. 

In  the  late  twentieth  century,  Nepal's  foreign  policy  continued 
to  be  affected  by  its  geostrategic  location  between  China  and  In- 
dia and  its  attempt  to  maintain  a  balance  between  these  powerful 
neighbors.  Nepal's  relationship  with  India  is  governed  by  the  1950 
Treaty  of  Peace  and  Friendship  and  its  accompanying  letters,  which 
established  an  informal  military  alliance  whereby  both  countries 
are  required  to  consult  and  "devise  effective  countermeasures"  in 
case  the  security  of  either  is  threatened.  Since  the  1970s,  however, 
Nepal  has  exhibited  greater  independence  in  its  foreign  policy,  es- 
tablishing bilateral  diplomatic  relations  with  other  countries  and 
joining  various  multilateral  and  regional  organizations. 

Nepal,  for  example,  belongs  to  the  United  Nations  and  its  af- 
filiated agencies  such  as  the  Group  of  77,  as  well  as  the  Nonaligned 
Movement  and  the  Asian  Development  Bank.  It  is  also  a  member 
of  the  South  Asian  Association  for  Regional  Cooperation  (SAARC), 
founded  in  1983,  initially  under  a  slightly  different  name,  as  an 
institutionalized  framework  for  regional  cooperation;  its  perma- 
nent secretariat  was  established  in  1987  in  Kathmandu.  Nepal  does 
not  accept  compulsory  United  Nations  International  Court  of 
Justice  jurisdiction. 

One  of  India's  longstanding  sources  of  power  over  Nepal  has 
been  India's  control  of  access  to  raw  materials  and  supply  routes. 
The  effect  of  this  control  was  especially  evident  during  the  1989 
trade  and  transit  dispute — and  its  aftermath — when  the  foreign 
trade  balance  was  negatively  affected  and  the  economy  took  a 
downturn. 

In  early  1992,  Nepal's  relations  with  India  were  clouded  by  con- 
troversy over  the  December  1991  agreement  for  cooperation  on 
a  hydroelectric  and  irrigation  project  at  Tanakpur,  near  the  south- 
western Nepalese-Indian  border.  The  Communist  Party  of  Nepal 
(United  Marxist-Leninist)  and  other  leftist  parties  opposed  the 
project,  which  they  regarded  as  against  Nepal's  national  interest 
because  the  site,  on  Nepalese  territory,  was  not  covered  by  a  for- 
mal treaty.  The  constitution  stipulates  that  treaties  need  parliamen- 
tary assent  if  exploitation  of  the  nation's  natural  resources  is 
involved.  Prime  Minister  G.P.  Koirala  said  he  had  signed  a 
memorandum  of  understanding,  not  a  treaty.  The  opposition  took 
its  case  to  the  Supreme  Court. 

Military  relations  between  Kathmandu  and  New  Delhi  were  cor- 
dial. In  March  1992,  the  Indian  chief  of  army  staff  visited  Nepal 
and  was  made  an  honorary  general  of  the  Royal  Nepal  Army,  an 
uncommon  occurrence. 


xx 


Nepal's  relations  with  China  were  low-key  and  an  exercise  in 
caution.  Nonetheless,  India  interpreted  sales  of  air  defense  weapons 
by  China  to  Nepal  in  1988  as  interfering  with  its  treaty  arrange- 
ments with  Nepal.  Nepal  and  China,  however,  signed  technical 
and  economic  cooperation  agreements  in  March  1992. 

Bhutan  has  its  own  distinct  history,  although  it  shares  Nepal's 
Himalayan  geography  and  neighbors  (see  fig.  2).  Only  one-third 
the  size  of  Nepal,  Bhutan  also  has  a  much  smaller  population:  es- 
timated at  about  600,000  persons  in  1990  as  compared  to  a  popu- 
lation of  over  19  million  in  Nepal. 

The  precursor  of  Bhutan,  the  state  of  Lhomon  or  Monyul,  was 
said  to  have  existed  between  500  B.C.  and  A.D.  600.  At  the  end 
of  that  period,  Buddhism  was  introduced  into  the  country;  a  branch 
of  Mahayana  Buddhism  is  the  state  religion  of  Bhutan.  Bhutan 
was  subject  to  both  Indian  and  Tibetan  influences,  and  small  in- 
dependent monarchies  began  to  develop  in  the  country  by  the  early 
ninth  century.  Religious  rivalry  among  various  Buddhist  subsects 
also  influenced  political  development;  the  rivalry  began  in  the  tenth 
century  and  continued  through  the  seventeenth  century,  when  a 
theocratic  government  independent  of  Tibetan  political  influence 
united  the  country.  From  that  time  until  1907,  the  Kingdom  of 
Bhutan,  or  Drukyul  (literally  land  of  the  Thunder  Dragon),  had 
a  dual  system  of  shared  civil  and  spiritual  (Buddhist)  rule.  In  1907 
the  absolute  monarchy  was  established,  and  the  hereditary  posi- 
tion of  Druk  Gyalpo,  or  Dragon  King,  was  awarded  to  the  power- 
ful Wangchuck  family.  Since  1972,  Jigme  Singye  Wangchuck  has 
held  the  position  of  Druk  Gyalpo. 

The  Druk  Gyalpo  controls  the  executive,  legislative,  and  judi- 
cial branches  of  the  government.  The  monarchy  is  absolute,  but 
the  king  is  admired  and  respected  and  is  referred  to  by  the  people 
as  "our  King."  The  Council  of  Ministers  and  Royal  Advisory 
Council  are  part  of  the  executive  branch  of  government.  The  legis- 
lative branch  is  made  up  of  the  unicameral  National  Assembly, 
or  Tshogdu,  whose  members  are  either  indirectly  elected  or  ap- 
pointed by  the  Druk  Gyalpo.  Bhutan  has  neither  a  written  consti- 
tution nor  organic  laws.  The  1953  royal  decree  on  the  Constitution 
of  the  National  Assembly  is  the  primary  legal,  or  constitutional, 
basis  for  that  body  and  sets  forth  its  rules  and  procedures.  The 
Supreme  Court  of  Appeal,  in  effect  the  Druk  Gyalpo,  is  the  highest 
level  court;  judges  are  appointed  by  the  Druk  Gyalpo.  There  are 
no  lawyers.  The  civil  code  and  criminal  code  are  based  on 
seventeenth-century  concepts. 

Under  Jigme  Singye  Wangchuck,  Bhutan's  centrally  controlled 
government  system  has  been  instrumental  in  initiating  greater 


xxi 


political  participation.  In  the  early  1990s,  however,  there  were  still 
no  legal  political  parties — although  there  were  elite  political 
factions — and  no  national  elections.  There  was  no  overt  communist 
presence.  Each  family  was  allowed  one  vote  in  village-level  elec- 
tions. Local  government  was  divided  into  zones,  districts,  subdis- 
tricts,  and  village  groups,  and  meetings  were  regularly  held  at  the 
village  and  block  (gewog)  levels,  where  issues  were  decided  by  public 
debate.  The  complex  administrative  network  of  consultation  and 
decisionmaking  by  consensus  obscured  the  need  for  national  elec- 
tions. At  the  1992  session  of  the  National  Assembly,  support  for 
the  hereditary  monarchy  was  unanimously  reaffirmed. 

Like  Nepal,  Bhutan  has  a  diverse  population.  It  is  home  to  four 
ethnic  groups:  Ngalop — of  Tibetan  origin;  Sharchop — of  Indo- 
Mongoloid  origin;  aboriginal,  or  indigenous,  tribal  peoples;  and 
Nepalese.  In  the  early  1990s,  the  first  three  groups  made  up  about 
72  percent  of  the  population.  According  to  this  estimate,  the  Nepa- 
lese constituted  approximately  28  percent  of  the  population;  other 
estimates  suggested  that  30  to  40  percent  might  be  Nepalese.  The 
Nepalese  constituted  a  majority  in  southern  Bhutan,  where,  in  an 
effort  to  maintain  traditional  culture  and  control,  the  government 
has  tried  to  confine  their  immigration  and  restrict  their  residence 
and  employment.  In  the  early  1990s,  only  approximately  15  per- 
cent of  the  Nepalese  in  Bhutan  were  considered  legal  permanent 
residents;  only  those  immigrants  who  had  resided  in  Bhutan  for 
fifteen  or  twenty  years — the  number  of  years  depended  on  their 
occupational  status  and  other  criteria — were  considered  for  citizen- 
ship. Nepalese  immigrants  who  were  asked  to  leave  because  their 
claims  to  citizenship  did  not  conform  to  the  1985  Citizenship  Act 
openly  voiced  their  discontent  with  the  government.  Illegal  im- 
migrants often  were  militant  antinationals. 

In  the  1980s,  the  Bhutanese,  believing  their  identity  threatened 
by  absorption  of  a  growing  Nepalese  minority  and  the  specter  of 
annexation  by  India,  promulgated  a  policy  of  driglam  namzha,  "na- 
tional customs  and  etiquette."  This  policy  sought  to  preserve  and 
enhance  Bhutanese  cultural  identity  and  bolster  Bhutanese  nation- 
alism. The  policy  mandated  the  wearing  of  national  dress  for  for- 
mal occasions  and  the  use  of  the  official  language,  Dzongkha,  in 
schools.  In  1989,  it  was  decreed  that  Nepali,  which  had  been  offered 
as  an  optional  language,  was  no  longer  to  be  taught  in  the  schools. 
Subsequent  government  decrees  contributed  to  a  growing  conflict 
with  ethnic  Nepalese,  who  sought  to  maintain  their  own  identity 
and  viewed  these  edicts  as  restrictive.  Ethnic  strife  increased  as  the 
aftereffects  of  Nepal's  prodemocracy  movement  spread  to  Bhutan, 
where  Nepalese  communities  demonstrated  against  the  government 

xxii 


in  an  effort  to  protect  their  rights  from  the  driglam  namzha  policy. 
Expatriate  Nepalese  political  groups  in  Nepal  and  India  support- 
ed these  antigovernment  activities,  further  alienating  the  Bhutanese. 

Bhutan's  military  force,  the  Royal  Bhutan  Army,  is  very  small; 
in  1990  it  numbered  only  6,000  persons.  The  Druk  Gyalpo  is  the 
supreme  commander  of  the  army,  but  daily  operations  are  the 
responsibility  of  the  chief  operations  officer.  The  army's  primary 
mission  is  border  defense  although  it  also  assists  the  Royal  Bhutan 
Police  in  internal  security  matters. 

Bhutan,  like  Nepal,  is  considered  a  least-developed  country.  Its 
work  force  is  largely  unskilled,  and  a  wide  gap  exists  between  the 
rich  and  the  poor.  Farming  is  the  mainstay  of  the  economy  and 
accounts  for  most  of  the  gross  domestic  product.  Although  Bhu- 
tan did  not  begin  to  establish  its  industrial  base  until  the  1950s, 
careful  economic  planning  and  use  of  foreign  aid  have  resulted  in 
measurable  improvements  in  economic  efficiency  and  performance 
over  the  last  four  decades.  As  is  the  case  in  Nepal,  tourists  bring 
in  a  major  portion  of  the  country's  foreign  exchange. 

Social  status  in  Bhutan,  as  in  Nepal,  depends  primarily  on  eco- 
nomic standing  in  the  community.  Specifically,  it  depends  on  land- 
ownership,  occupation,  and  perceived  religious  authority.  The 
society  is  male  dominated.  Although  as  of  1992  the  government 
officially  encouraged  increased  participation  of  women  in  political 
and  administrative  life,  women  remained  in  a  secondary  position, 
particularly  in  business  and  the  civil  service.  Bhutanese  women, 
however,  do  have  a  dominant  social  position,  and  land  often  pass- 
es to  daughters,  not  to  sons.  Bhutan's  traditional  society  is  both 
matriarchal  and  patriarchal;  the  head  of  the  family  is  the  member 
in  highest  esteem.  However,  men  predominate  in  government  and 
have  more  opportunities  for  higher  education  than  do  women. 

As  of  1992,  education  in  Bhutan  is  free  for  eleven  years  but  not 
compulsory.  Men  have  literacy  rates  about  three  times  higher  than 
those  for  women,  and  school  enrollment  levels  are  higher  for  males. 
As  is  the  case  in  Nepal,  social  services  are  not  widespread.  Modern 
medical  care  is  lacking,  as  are  clean  drinking  water  and  adequate 
sanitation.  Not  surprisingly,  gastrointestinal  diseases  are  wide- 
spread. Nutrional  deficiencies  are  also  prevalent;  serious  malnutri- 
tion, however,  does  not  appear  to  be  a  problem.  Like  Nepal,  the 
country  had  high  morbidity  and  death  rates  in  the  early  1990s. 

Foreign  aid,  grants,  and  concessionary  loans  constituted  a  large 
percentage  of  Bhutan's  budget  in  the  early  1990s.  Like  Nepal,  Bhu- 
tan received  foreign  assistance  from  the  United  Nations,  the  Colombo 
Plan  (see  Glossary),  the  Asian  Development  Bank,  the  World  Bank 
(see  Glossary),  and  the  Organization  of  the  Petroleum  Exporting 


xxin 


Countries,  as  well  as  official  development  assistance  and  other  offi- 
cial flows.  Because  Bhutan  had  no  formal  diplomatic  relations  with 
the  United  States  as  of  1992,  no  official  aid  was  forthcoming  from 
Washington. 

As  has  been  the  case  in  Nepal,  Bhutan's  foreign  policy  has  been 
affected  by  its  geostrategic  location.  From  the  seventh  century  un- 
til 1860,  the  country's  foreign  policy  was  influenced  by  Tibet;  next 
followed  a  period  of  British  guidance  over  foreign  affairs.  After  India 
received  independence  from  Britain  in  1947,  Bhutan  came  under 
India's  influence.  Thimphu  and  New  Delhi's  relationship  is 
governed  by  the  1949  Treaty  of  Friendship  between  the  Govern- 
ment of  India  and  the  Government  of  Bhutan — in  force  in 
perpetuity — which  calls  for  peace  and  noninterference  in  internal 
affairs  and  New  Delhi's  guidance  and  advice  in  external  relations. 
Like  Nepal,  however,  Bhutan  has  been  exhibiting  greater  indepen- 
dence in  its  foreign  policy,  and  by  the  early  1990s  was,  in  effect, 
autonomous  in  its  foreign  relations.  Thimphu  has  established 
bilateral  diplomatic  relations  with  other  countries  and  has  joined 
various  multilateral  and  regional  organizations.  Bhutan  belongs 
to  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  to  organizations  such  as  SAARC, 
the  Nonaligned  Movement,  and  the  Asian  Development  Bank.  It 
does  not  accept  compulsory  United  Nations  International  Court 
of  Justice  jurisdiction. 

Both  Nepal  and  Bhutan  were  facing  refugee  problems  in  the  early 
1990s;  statistics  on  the  number  of  refugees  come  from  diverse 
sources  and  are  discrepant.  In  April  1992,  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR)  estimated  that  since  1986 
more  than  30,000  ethnic  Nepalese  had  left  Bhutan  because  of  po- 
litical discontent,  poor  employment  prospects,  or  because  they  were 
considered  illegal  immigrants.  A  much  higher  figure  is  projected 
by  G.P.  Koirala,  Nepal's  prime  minister,  who  has  estimated  that 
in  the  early  1990s  Nepalese  from  Bhutan  seeking  to  escape  the  sanc- 
tions imposed  by  driglam  namzha  arrived  in  Nepal  at  the  rate  of  200 
persons  daily. 

Antinationals  in  Bhutan  used  the  growing  number  of  southern 
Bhutanese-Nepalese  in  the  refugee  camps  within  Nepal  as  a  means 
to  publicize  and  internationalize  their  plight.  To  this  end,  they 
encouraged  Nepalese  to  leave  Bhutan  and  also  encouraged  Nepa- 
lese from  India  to  enter  the  camps.  For  Bhutan,  the  departure  of 
the  Nepalese  often  meant  the  loss  of  skilled  laborers;  however,  it 
also  resulted  in  the  exodus  of  unwanted  agitators.  For  Nepal,  the 
refugees  were  an  added  economic  burden — more  people  needing 
housing,  food,  clothing,  education,  and  other  social  services.  Liv- 
ing conditions  in  the  refugee  camps  within  Nepal  were  reported 


xxiv 


to  be  poor.  As  of  mid- 1992,  the  camps  were  filled  with  people  hold- 
ing Nepalese  citizenship  cards,  Bhutanese  citizenship  cards,  and 
UNHCR  certificates  attesting  they  were  "Bhutanese  refugees." 
However,  because  each  party  seeks  to  present  its  own  case,  all  statis- 
tics and  statements  related  to  the  Nepalese  refugee  situation  must 
be  viewed  cautiously. 

The  refugee  problem  presented  a  challenge  to  India,  which  need- 
ed to  balance  its  interests  in  maintaining  Bhutan's  stability  with 
the  necessity  of  not  inflaming  nationalist  passions  among  its  own 
ethnic  Nepalese  population  and  not  upsetting  its  relations  with  either 
Nepal  or  Bhutan.  India  would  not  allow  its  territory  to  be  used 
as  a  staging  ground  for  protests  by  Bhutanese  residents  of  Nepa- 
lese origin.  The  situation  was  further  complicated  by  the  fact  that 
Indian  laborers  who  entered  Nepal  in  search  of  work  displaced 
underemployed  and  unemployed  Nepalese  workers. 

September  10,  1992 

*    *  * 

Since  the  Introduction  was  written,  the  events  taking  place  in 
Nepal  and  Bhutan  in  late  1992  and  early  1993  have  continued  to 
reflect  the  issues  that  have  faced  the  two  countries  in  the  past  few 
years.  The  refugee  issue  has  continued  to  be  problematic.  The  lead- 
ers of  both  Nepal  and  Bhutan  met  with  India's  leaders  in  late  1992 
and  early  1993;  all  the  parties  reaffirmed  that  the  issue  was  an  in- 
ternal matter  that  should  be  resolved  through  bilateral  talks  be- 
tween Nepal  and  Bhutan.  In  spite  of  the  agitation  and  activities 
of  antinationals  in  the  south,  Bhutan's  National  Assembly  passed 
a  National  Security  Act  in  late  1 992  that  abolished  the  death  penalty 
for  crimes  of  treason  as  stipulated  in  a  1957  law,  providing  instead 
for  life  imprisonment. 

In  December  1992,  the  Supreme  Court  of  Nepal  ruled  against 
Prime  Minister  G.P.  Koirala's  signing  of  a  December  1991  ac- 
cord for  hydroelectric  power  cooperation  with  India  at  Tanakpur. 
After  their  victory,  Koirala's  opponents  in  the  Communist  Party 
of  Nepal  (United  Marxist-Leninist)  pressed  him  to  step  down,  but 
he  refused.  As  a  result  of  the  court's  decision,  however,  Kathmandu 
said  the  Koirala  government  would  present  the  Tanakpur  accord 
and  its  relevant  documents  to  the  next  parliamentary  session  for 
ratification — a  step  that  would  have  otherwise  been  bypassed. 


xxv 


In  November  1992,  the  Nepal  Investment  Forum,  jointly  or- 
ganized by  the  government,  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme,  and  the  United  Nations  Industrial  Development  Or- 
ganization, held  its  inaugural  meeting.  The  forum  of  investors  and 
industrialists  aimed  to  increase  investment  in  the  industrial  sec- 
tor; Nepal  said  it  would  even  simplify  some  economic  procedures 
to  ensure  a  favorable  investment  climate.  In  December  1992,  Nepal 
passed  laws  to  encourage  foreign  (and  local)  investment  by  creat- 
ing a  more  favorable  investment  environment.  Foreigners  would 
be  allowed  to  repatriate  earnings  and  hold  total  equity  in  new 
projects. 

In  March  1993,  communist  factions  demonstrated  against  the 
government,  protesting  the  Tanakpur  accord  as  well  as  power  cuts, 
despite  an  almost  100  percent  increase  in  electricity  rates.  The  com- 
munists also  rallied  to  show  their  support  for  an  upcoming  gener- 
al strike  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley.  More  than  6,000  persons 
participated  in  the  strike,  which  idled  markets,  schools,  and  facto- 
ries. That  same  month,  the  Nepal  Electricity  Authority  said  pow- 
er cuts  could  continue  until  July  1995  because  of  the  water  shortage 
in  reservoirs.  In  addition,  other  dams  had  technical  problems  and 
needed  refurbishing. 

Also  in  March,  Nepal  estimated  100,000  Bhutanese  refugees  in 
UNHCR-run  camps  in  Nepal  and  elsewhere.  The  World  Food 
Programme  announced  in  April  that  it  would  supply  8,000  tons 
of  food  until  September  1993  to  ethnic  Nepalese  refugees  from  Bhu- 
tan in  southeastern  Nepal.  Talks  between  Nepal's  foreign  minister 
and  Bhutan's  king  at  the  SAARC  summit  meeting  in  April  failed 
to  resolve  the  refugee  problem. 

In  April  1993,  King  Birendra  suspended  the  fourth  session  of 
Parliament  a  day  after  the  House  of  Representatives  agreed  by 
unanimous  decision  to  establish  an  all-party  special  parliamentary 
committee  to  evaluate  the  Tanakpur  accord.  That  same  month, 
the  government  arrested  three  journalists  for  allegedly  offending 
members  of  the  royal  family. 

In  mid-May  1993,  two  senior  leaders  of  the  Communist  Party 
of  Nepal  (United  Marxist-Leninist)  died  in  an  automobile  acci- 
dent, which  subsequently  was  being  investigated.  It  was  expected 
that  a  void  in  the  communist  leadership  would  result  from  the  deaths 
of  the  two  leaders. 

Late  1992  and  early  1993  brought  a  number  of  published  reports 
on  Bhutan's  ethnic  problems.  The  reports  were  a  mix  of  investi- 
gation, condemnation,  explanation,  and  defense.  Prominent  among 
these  reports  was  Amnesty  International's  Bhutan:  Human  Rights 
Violations  Against  the  Nepali-Speaking  Population  in  the  South.  Published 


XXVI 


in  New  York  in  December  1992,  the  report  was  based  on  Amnesty 
International's  investigations  of  reports  of  human  rights  violations 
since  late  1990  as  well  as  its  delegations'  visits  to  Nepal  in  Novem- 
ber 1991  to  interview  Nepali- speaking  refugees  from  Bhutan  and 
to  Bhutan  in  January  1992  at  the  invitation  of  the  Druk  Gyalpo 
to  discuss  the  earlier  human  rights  findings  and  measures  to  be 
taken  to  improve  the  human  rights  situation.  Information  provid- 
ed by  refugees  included  charges  of  arbitrary  arrest,  detention 
without  charge  or  trial,  unfair  trials,  ill  treatment,  torture,  rape, 
deaths  in  custody,  and  inadequate  prison  conditions.  The  report 
also  outlined  measures  taken  by  the  Bhutanese  government  dur- 
ing and  after  the  January  1992  visit  to  Bhutan:  more  than  1,500 
political  prisoners,  including  some  identified  by  Amnesty  Inter- 
national as  prisoners  of  conscience,  were  granted  amnesty;  others 
still  imprisoned  were  allowed  regular  access  to  their  relatives  and 
had  their  living  conditions  improved,  including  the  elimination  of 
the  use  of  shackles.  Other  steps  taken  included  punishment  of  mem- 
bers of  security  forces  involved  in  human  rights  violations  and  the 
introduction  of  legislation  that  would  eliminate  a  mandatory  death 
penalty  for  acts  of  treason. 

Both  the  Amnesty  International  report  and  another  written  in- 
vestigative report  by  British  academic  Michael  Hutton,  following 
his  visits  to  Bhutan  and  Nepal  and  published  in  the  April  1993  is- 
sue of  Index  on  Censorship,  attributed  the  rise  of  ethnic  unrest  to  Bhu- 
tan' s  Citizenship  Act  of  1985,  which  retroactively  reclassified 
citizenship  qualifications;  the  1988  census,  which  revealed  the 
presence  of  some  100,000  illegal  residents  in  southern  Bhutan  and 
led  to  mass  deportations;  and  the  series  of  government  decisions 
and  directives  between  1987  and  1989  designed  to  enforce  driglam 
namzha.  While  Hutton  concluded  that  "journalists  are  easily  misled 
by  both  sides"  on  the  human  rights  issue,  he  noted  the  contrast 
of  the  "well-produced"  reports  written  in  flawless  English  by  Bhu- 
tan's official  press  with  the  "injudiciously  emotive"  but  sometimes 
"extraordinarily  thorough"  reports  coming  from  Kathmandu-based 
organizations. 

In  early  May  1993,  the  Nation  [Bangkok]  published  a  revealing 
interview  given  by  Bhutan's  minister  of  foreign  affairs,  Dawa  Tser- 
ing.  While  strongly  denying  charges  of  "ethnic  cleansing,"  Tser- 
ing  insisted  that  "there  is  no  violence"  and  that  the  majority  of 
people  leaving  or  who  have  left  Bhutan  were  illegal  residents.  At 
the  encouragement  of  Amnesty  International,  he  said,  the  govern- 
ment had  agreed  to  give  illegal  residents  work  permits,  the  same 
as  had  been  granted  to  outsiders  working  in  Bhutan.  He  added 
that  the  government  was  dismayed  that  "a  big  chunk  of  genuine" 


xxvii 


Bhutanese  nationals,  that  is,  legal  emigrants,  had  left  the  country 
because  of  fear  and  insecurity  caused  not  only  by  antigovernment 
terrorist  attacks  but  also  by  fear  of  Bhutanese  security  forces  who 
were  "functioning  under  lots  of  tension  .  .  .  and  might  sometimes 
be  a  bit  rough  on  the  common  people."  To  reverse  this  trend,  he 
said  that  the  government  had  exempted  legal  southern  Bhutanese 
citizens  from  paying  land  taxes  in  order  to  convince  them  not  to 
emigrate.  Countering  a  common  misperception,  Tsering  said  that 
Nepali  had  not  been  banned  and  that  in  National  Assembly  ses- 
sions both  Dzongkha  and  Nepali,  with  the  Druk  Gyalpo's  bless- 
ing, were  still  being  spoken — with  simultaneous  translations. 
However,  he  defended  the  government's  right  to  insist  that  all 
citizens  should  adopt  the  national  dress  and  learn  the  Dzongkha 
language.  (Hutton's  investigation  revealed  that  many  native 
Dzongkha  speakers  easily  used  Nepali  in  their  daily  dealings  with 
Nepali-speaking  residents.)  Queried  about  the  number  of  dissidents, 
he  admitted  that  there  were  approximately  180  people  in  deten- 
tion, some  of  whom  had  been  convicted  during  trial  but  all  of  whom 
had  been  given  access  to  the  International  Committee  of  the  Red 
Cross  starting  in  January  1993. 

As  the  mid-1990s  approached,  Bhutan,  like  Nepal,  was  experienc- 
ing a  sometimes  painful  transition  to  more  democratic  forms  of 
government.  Dawa  Tsering  concluded  his  interview  by  offering  the 
observation  that  Bhutan,  from  its  own  perspective,  "is  being  highly 
democratized"  and  that  the  monarchy  "is  a  contractual  monar- 
chy and  is  very  conscious  of  its  responsibilities"  of  "keep[ing]  in 
step  with  the  changing  times." 

June  1,  1993  Andrea  Matles  Savada 


xxvm 


Table  A.  Nepal:  Chronology  of  Important  Events 


Period  Description 

ca.  563  B.C.  The  Buddha  born  in  Lumbini,  in  Tarai  Region 

of  Nepal. 

268-31  B.C.  Ashoka  establishes  empire  in  north  India. 

ca.  A.D.  353-73  Samudragupta  establishes  empire  in  north  India. 

400-750  Licchavi  kingdom  in  power  in  Kathmandu 

Valley. 

750- 1 200  "Transitional' '  kingdom  in  power  in  Kathman- 

du Valley. 

1100-1484  Khasa  Malla  kings  rule  in  western  Nepal. 

1200-16  Arimalla,  first  monarch  of  the  Malla  Dynasty, 

rules  in  Kathmandu  Valley. 

1312  Khasa  king  Ripumalla  leads  raid  in  Kathman- 

du Valley. 

1345-46  Sultan  Shams  ud-din  Ilyas  of  Bengal  leads  raid 

in  Kathmandu  Valley. 

1382-95  Jayasthitimalla  rules  as  king  of  united  Malla 

kingdom  in  Kathmandu  Valley. 

1428-82  Yakshamalla  reigns — height  of  united  Malla 

kingdom. 

1484  Malla  kingdom  divided;  three  kingdoms  of 

Kathmandu,  Bhadgaon,  and  Patan  ex- 
pand. 

1526  Mughal  Empire  established  in  north  India. 

1559  Gorkha  kingdom  established. 

1606-33  Ram  Shah  of  Gorkha  reigns;  Gorkha  king- 

dom experiences  first  expansion. 

1728  Chinese  influence  established  in  Tibet. 

1743  Prithvi  Narayan  Shah  ascends  to  throne  of 

Gorkha. 

1764  British  East  India  Company  gains  control  of 

Bengal. 

1768-90  Gorkha  conquers  Kathmandu  and  Patan,  Bhad- 

dgaon,  eastern  Nepal,  and  western  Nepal. 

xxix 


Table  A.  — Continued 


Period 


Description 


1775 


1982 


Prithvi  Narayan  Shah  dies,  first  king  of  united 
Nepal. 

B.P.  Koirala,  Nepali  Congress  Party  leader, 
dies. 


1986 
1989 

1990 


Second  elections  held  to  National  Panchayat. 

Failure  to  renegotiate  trade  and  transit  treaties 
with  India  disrupts  economy. 

New  constitution  promulgated  as  result  of  agi- 
tations and  successes  of  Movement  for  the 
Restoration  of  Democracy. 


1991 


Elections  held  to  Parliament;  first  session  of  first 
multiparty  Parliament  held  in  thirty-two 

years. 


XXX 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


.-t — r 


K  "  rc 


CO  • 


c  ; 
2  ^ 


J  CM 


X 

m 
m 
a 

5 
o 
z 
< 
m 


^  J 


P  ^ 
1*1 


I  05  < 


/ 

J  to 

\ 


S  tD 

J  3  l/ 


CO 


J 


1  • 


"5  / 


< 

Q 


|  1 


^1- 

to 


Cl 

CO 

u 

03 

c 
o 

N 


I  I 
I  I 


=  DC 

|  <  H  g 

<  >-  <  v 
O  <  *E  < 
2  oc  o  z 

<  <  <  < 

CD  Z  CD  ^ 


DC 

<  - 


O 

CM 

CO 

s 

CD 

< 

ALI 

/AL 

z 

Z 

DC 

P 

CD 

P 

DC 

LU 

Q. 

< 

LU 

< 

X 

< 

X 

W 

CD 

CC 

D 

_J 

CM 

CO 

*t 

in 

CO 

XXX11 


Nepal:  Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Kingdom  of  Nepal. 
Short  Form:  Nepal. 
Term  for  Citizens:  Nepalese. 
Capital:  Kathmandu. 

NOTE:    The  Country  Profile  contains  updated  information  as  available. 

xxxiii 


Date  of  Independence:  1 768,  when  a  number  of  independent  hill 
states  were  unified  by  Prithvi  Narayan  Shah  as  the  Kingdom  of 
Gorkha. 

National  Holiday:  December  28,  birthday  of  King  Birendra  Bir 
Bikram  Shah  Dev. 

Geography 

Location  and  Size:  Landlocked  between  China  and  India;  total 
land  area  147,181  square  kilometers. 

Topography:  Mountainous  and  hilly,  although  with  physical  diver- 
sity. Three  broad  physiographic  areas  run  laterally — lowland  Tarai 
Region  in  south;  central  lower  mountains  and  hills  constituting  Hill 
Region;  high  Himalayas,  with  8,796-meters-high  Mount  Everest 
and  other  peaks  forming  Mountain  Region  in  north.  Of  total  land 
area,  only  20  percent  cultivatable.  Deforestation  severe  problem; 
by  1988  forests  covered  approximately  30  percent  of  land  area. 

Climate:  Five  climatic  zones  based  on  altitude  range  from  sub- 
tropical in  south,  to  cool  summers  and  severe  winters  in  north.  An- 
nual rainfall  with  seasonal  variations  depending  on  monsoon  cycle, 
which  provides  60  to  80  percent  of  total  annual  rainfall;  2,500  mil- 
limeters in  eastern  part  of  country;  1 ,420  millimeters  around  Kath- 
mandu;  1,000  millimeters  in  western  Nepal. 

Society 

Population:  15,022,839  at  time  of  1981  census;  estimated 
19,145,800  in  July  1990  (July  1991  estimate  19,611,900).  Growth 
rate  in  1980s  2.6  percent;  birth  rate  44  per  1,000  in  1985  (39  per 
1,000  in  1991);  crude  death  rate  14  per  1,000  in  1985  (15  per  1,000 
in  1991 — increase  from  steady  decline).  Nearly  44  percent  of  popu- 
lation resides  in  Tarai  Region;  about  48  percent  in  Hill  Region, 
nearly  9  percent  in  Mountain  Region.  Population  density  per  square 
kilometer  total  land  102  persons;  61  persons  per  hectare  of  cultivat- 
able land.  Only  6.3  percent  total  population  in  urban  areas  in  1981 . 
Sex  ratio  105  males  to  100  females  in  1981 .  Life  expectancy  at  birth 
close  to  fifty  years  in  1985;  in  1991,  fifty-one  years  male,  fifty  years 
female. 

Ethnic  Groups:  Three  major  ethnic  groups  in  terms  of  origin:  Indo- 
Nepalese,  Tibeto-Nepalese,  and  indigenous  Nepalese,  composed 
of  Newar,  Bhote,  Rai,  Limbu,  Sherpa,  Gurung,  Tamang,  Ma- 
gar,  Thakali,  Brahman,  and  other  smaller  ethnic  groups. 


xxxiv 


Languages:  Nepali,  written  in  Devanagari  script,  official,  nation- 
al language;  spoken  by  almost  60  percent  of  population.  More  than 
twelve  other  languages  with  numerous  dialects,  although  rarely 
spoken  outside  ethnic  enclaves. 

Religion:  Only  official  Hindu  state  in  world  although  intermin- 
gling and  synthesis  of  Hindu  and  Buddhist  beliefs  in  practice.  About 
89.5  percent  of  population  Hindu,  approximately  5.3  percent  and 
2.7  percent,  Buddhist  and  Muslim,  respectively;  remainder,  other 
religions,  including  Christianity. 

Education:  Literacy  rate  in  1990  estimated  at  33  percent;  higher 
percentage  males  literate;  also  higher  literacy  rates  in  urban  areas. 
Free,  compulsory  primary  education,  five  years;  total  school  en- 
rollment approximately  52  percent  school-age  children  (70  percent 
male,  30  percent  female)  in  1984.  In  1987  primary  and  secondary 
education  included  12,491  primary  schools  (15,834  in  1989),  3,824 
lower- secondary  schools  (3,941  in  1989),  1,501  higher- secondary 
schools  (1,791  in  1989);  apparent  primary  school  enrollment  ratio 
85  percent  in  1987.  In  1989  there  were  63,945  primary  school 
teachers,  12,245  lower- secondary  school  teachers,  33,779  higher- 
secondary  school  teachers.  In  1989  students  numbered  2,536,147 
at  the  primary  school  level,  325,237  in  lower-secondary  school,  and 
338,779  in  higher- secondary  school.  National  Education  Plan  set 
framework  for  universal  education;  national  development  goals 
stressed  through  curriculum.  Tribhuvan  University  sole  doctoral- 
granting  institution;  sixty-nine  public  colleges  under  Tribhuvan 
University;  sixty-three  private  colleges.  In  1987,  almost  83,000 
students,  mostly  male,  enrolled  in  higher  education  institutions. 
Longstanding  prejudice  against  education  of  women  gradually 
diminishing,  but  social  class  and  geography  continue  to  bias  educa- 
tional attainment. 

Health:  Infant  mortality  98  per  1,000  in  1991.  Poor  nutrition,  sani- 
tation, general  absence  of  modern  medical  care  and  other  social 
services,  especially  in  rural  areas.  Goiter,  leprosy,  intestinal  para- 
sites, diarrhea,  gastrointestinal  disorders,  and  tuberculosis  preva- 
lent although  latter  somewhat  reduced  since  1970s.  Three  types 
health-care  practices — popular  folk  medical  care,  Ayurvedic  treat- 
ment, and  modern  medicine,  sometimes  intertwined.  Limited 
health-care  delivery  system;  public  and  private  health-care  facili- 
ties. Hospitals,  mosdy  confined  to  urban  areas,  provide  wider  range 
of  services  than  predominantly  rural  health  centers  and  health  posts. 
In  1990  only  123  hospitals,  16  health  centers,  816  health  posts,  and 


xxxv 


153  Ayurvedic  dispensaries;  951  physicians,  or  1  physician  for  ap- 
proximately 19,000  persons. 

Economy 

Salient  Features:  Underdeveloped  with  economy  tied  to  India  as 
result  of  geographic  position  and  historical  relationship.  Predomi- 
nantiy  agricultural;  limited  industrial  activity;  services — particularly 
related  to  tourism,  growing  part  of  economy.  In  FY  1989,  tourism 
provided  more  than  3.5  percent  of  GDP  and  about  25  percent  of 
total  foreign  exchange  earnings.  Services,  remittances  of  Nepalese 
working  outside  the  country,  and  foreign  loans  and  grants  finance 
the  deficit.  Economic  prospects  poor — projected  population  growth 
expected  to  outpace  growth  rate  of  agricultural  production.  Under- 
employment estimated  at  25-40  percent  in  1987;  unemployment 
averaged  5  percent.  Foreign  aid  averaged  64  percent  of  develop- 
ment from  1956-90;  44.4  percent  of  FY  1991  budget  from  foreign 
loans  or  grants.  Real  growth  averaged  4  percent  annually  in  early 
1980s,  almost  5  percent  in  late  1980s,  but  plummeted  to  between 
1.5  percent  and  2.3  percent  in  FY  1989  and  FY  1990  because  of 
trade  and  transit  dispute  with  India.  No  labor  laws  as  of  1991; 
limited  activity  of  labor  unions,  but  trade  unions  legalized  follow- 
ing prodemocracy  movement. 

Gross  National  Product:  Per  capita  income  for  1988  US$158-180 
range. 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  US$3  billion  in  FY  1990.  GDP 
increase  at  constant  prices  averaged  3.7  percent  annually  FY 
1975-86;  increased  2.1  percent  in  FY  1990.  Foreign  aid  as  per- 
centage of  GDP  increased  from  less  than  8  percent  in  1984  to  almost 
13  percent  in  1987.  Major  share  of  GDP  from  FY  1979  to  FY  1987 
from  agricultural  sector. 

Agriculture:  Dominated  economy;  livelihood  for  more  than  90  per- 
cent of  population;  approximately  60  percent  GDP  and  75  per- 
cent of  exports  in  late  1980s.  Some  parts  of  country  food  deficit 
areas  although  enough  generally  produced  to  feed  population; 
production  dependent  on  weather  conditions — particularly  mon- 
soons, distribution  of  inputs,  scarcity  of  new  lands,  and  continued 
environmental  degradation.  Tarai  Region  main  agricultural  belt. 
Paddy  (rice)  and  corn  major  food  crops,  also  wheat  and  millet;  pota- 
toes, oilseed,  sugarcane,  jute,  and  tobacco  major  cash  crops. 

Industry:  Limited  industrial  base — less  than  20  percent  of  total 
GDP  in  1980s;  7  percent  in  FY  1990— established  with  foreign  aid. 


xxxvi 


Industries  used  agricultural  products  and/or  dependent  on  vari- 
ous imported  inputs,  particularly  from  India.  Traditional  cottage 
industries  such  as  basket-weaving  and  production  of  cotton  fabrics 
approximately  60  percent  of  output. 

Manufacturing:  Larger  plants  generally  in  public  sector.  Major  in- 
dustries include  jute,  sugar,  cigarettes,  beer,  matches,  shoes,  chemi- 
cals, cement,  and  bricks.  Small  mineral  industry;  most  commodities 
used  for  domestic  construction;  cement,  clay,  limestone,  garnet, 
magnesite,  and  talc  most  important  mineral  resources. 

Energy:  As  of  late  1980s,  about  95  percent  of  energy  consumed 
from  traditional  sources — fuelwood,  76  percent  (hence  deforesta- 
tion). Tremendous  potential  for  hydroelectric  power  inhibited  by 
terrain,  lack  of  infrastructure,  and  insufficient  capital  investment. 

Foreign  Trade:  Traditionally  predominantly  with  India  although 
decreased  from  more  than  70  percent  in  1975  to  37  percent  of  to- 
tal trade  in  1989.  Also  unrecorded  border  trade  with  India.  As  a 
result  of  trade  and  transit  dispute,  India's  share  of  exports,  25  per- 
cent in  FY  1989,  dropped  to  approximately  9  percent  in  FY  1990; 
imports  fell  to  only  25  percent  FY  1990.  Persistent  and  growing 
trade  deficit  with  India.  Other  primary  trading  partners  the  Unit- 
ed States,  Bangladesh,  China,  Britain,  former  Soviet  Union,  West 
Germany,  South  Korea,  Japan,  Singapore,  Thailand,  Hong  Kong, 
and  Pakistan.  Major  exports  clothing,  carpets,  grain,  and  leather 
goods.  Major  imports  petroleum  products,  fertilizer,  and  machinery. 

Balance  of  Payments:  Improvement  in  1980s  as  a  result  of  foreign 
loans  and  assistance  although  increasing  foreign  debt.  Mid- 1989, 
official  foreign  debt  outstanding  and  disbursed  about  US$1.3  bil- 
lion. In  FY  1988,  exports  US$187  million;  imports  US$630  million. 

Currency/Exchange  Rate:  1  Nepalese  rupee  (NR)  or  rupee  (R)  = 
100  paisa.  Coins  issued  in  denominations  of  1,  5,  10,  25,  50  paisa, 
and  1  rupee;  notes  issued  in  denominations  of  1,  5,  10,  100,  500, 
and  1,000  rupees.  In  1989,  Rs  per  US$1  =27.19;  in  1990,  29.37; 
in  January  1991,  30.8.  Linked  to  Indian  rupee. 

Fiscal  Year:  16  July- 15  July. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Roads:  Many  built  with  foreign  assistance.  By  mid-July  1989,  ap- 
proximately 2,900  kilometers  paved  roads,  1,600  kilometers  gravel 
roads,  2,500  kilometers  earthen  roads.  Main  roads  east- west  and 


xxxvn 


north-south  highways.  Terrain  and  weather,  particularly  monsoons, 
factors  in  building  and  maintaining  roads. 

Railroads:  Average  1.5  million  passengers  annually  between  FY 
1985-89;  goods  transported  between  15,000  and  19,000  tons  (only 
13,000  tons  in  FY  1990).  Limited  service,  from  commercial  centers 
in  Tarai  to  railheads  near  Indian  border;  two  separate  rail  tracks  with 
total  length  of  101  kilometers;  lines  south  of  the  border  through  India. 

Airports:  Main  airport  Tribhuvan  International  Airport  outside 
Kathmandu;  more  than  thirty  airfields.  Domestic  service  and  in- 
ternational flights  to  and  from  Asian  and  European  cities. 
Government-owned  Royal  Nepal  Airlines  in  1990  carried  291,208 
domestic  passengers,  317,095  passengers  on  international  flights. 

Other  Modes  of  Transportation:  Forty-two  kilometer  ropeway 
from  Hetauda  into  Kathmandu  valley  transports  food,  construc- 
tion materials,  and  heavy  goods.  Local  transportation — bus 
service — common  only  in  Kathmandu  Valley. 

Telecommunications:  Postal  service  improved,  but  still  inacces- 
sible for  many  Nepalese;  2,232  post  offices  in  FY  1990.  Public  tel- 
ephone services  in  most  urban  areas;  forty- two  exchanges, 
seventy-six  public  call  offices,  fifty-five  wireless  stations  in  FY  1990. 
Rudimentary  radio  relay  network.  Radio  programming  approxi- 
mately 100  hours  weekly.  International  telephone,  telex,  and  fac- 
simile services  available  but  limited.  AM  radio  broadcast  stations, 
but  no  FM.  Limited  television  programming. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  Constitutional  monarchy.  Multiparty  democracy  es- 
tablished with  November  1990  constitution;  replaced  panchayat  sys- 
tem. First  elections  to  bicameral  legislature,  Parliament,  made  up 
of  House  of  Representatives  and  National  Council,  held  May  1991. 
Executive  powers  vested  in  king  and  Council  of  Ministers.  Prime 
minister  appointed  by  king  leader  of  political  party  with  majority 
in  House  of  Representatives. 

Administrative  Divisions:  Fourteen  zones  and  seventy-five  dis- 
tricts grouped  into  five  development  zones.  Following  prodemocracy 
movement,  former  village  panchayat  renamed  Village  Development 
Committee  and  town  panchayat  renamed  Municipal  Development 
Committee.  Each  district  headed  by  a  chief  district  officer  respon- 
sible for  maintaining  law  and  order  and  coordinating  works  of  field 
agencies  of  different  ministries. 


xxxvin 


Judiciary:  Blend  of  Hindu  and  Western  legal  traditions.  New  ju- 
dicial system  established  with  1990  constitution.  Supreme  Court 
at  apex  of  system;  fifty-four  appellate  courts,  numerous  district 
courts.  Judicial  Council  monitored  court  system's  performance, 
advised  king  and  government  on  judicial  matters  and  appointments. 

Foreign  Relations:  Foreign  policy  focused  on  maintaining  equi- 
distant and  friendly  relations  with  India  and  China.  Founding  mem- 
ber of  non-aligned  movement;  proposed  as  zone  of  peace  in  1975; 
active  member  of  South  Asian  Association  for  Regional  Coopera- 
tion (SAARC — see  Glossary)  and  international  organizations. 

Media:  Approximately  400  Nepalese  newspapers  and  periodicals 
in  1991.  Freedom  of  expression  constitutional  right.  Radio  and  tel- 
evision programming  controlled  by  government 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  Royal  Nepal  Army,  of  about  35,000  volunteers. 
Enlistment  for  initial  period  of  ten  years;  former  Gurkhas  for  three 
years.  Primary  mission  to  back  up  local  police  and  maintain  secu- 
rity in  Kathmandu  Valley — the  seat  of  government.  No  person- 
nel mobilization  plan  in  event  of  war  or  declared  national 
emergency;  no  contingency  plan  to  draft  during  or  in  anticipation 
of  emergency. 

Military  Units  and  Equipment:  Fourteen  infantry  brigades  in 
Royal  Nepal  Army;  one  air  wing  in  Royal  Nepal  Army  Air  Ser- 
vice. Shortages  of  virtually  all  categories  of  weapons  and  equip- 
ment. Obsolete  weapons  in  inventory. 

Military  Budget:  In  1989  US$33  million,  or  approximately  1.2 
percent  of  GNP  and  6.2  percent  of  total  central  government  ex- 
penditures. 

Foreign  Military  Relations:  Royal  Nepal  Army  personnel  serve 
in  United  Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon;  Gurkhas  also  serve 
in  British  Brigade  of  Gurkhas,  in  Hong  Kong,  India,  Singapore, 
and  Brunei. 

Police  Force:  Nepalese  Police  Force  of  28,000  personnel  under 
central  administration  of  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs.  Overseen  by 
king  and  advisers  with  little  or  nor  public  accountability. 


xxxix 


The  all-seeing  eyes  of  the  Buddha,  a  detail  from  the  great  stupa 
of  Svayambhunath,  a  Buddhist  shrine  west  of  Kathmandu 


NEPAL  HAS  BEEN  A  KINGDOM  for  at  least  1 ,500  years.  Dur- 
ing most  of  that  period,  the  Kathmandu  Valley  has  been  Nepal's 
political,  economic,  and  cultural  center.  The  valley's  fertile  soil 
supported  thriving  village  farming  communities,  and  its  location 
along  trans-Himalayan  trade  routes  allowed  merchants  and  rulers 
alike  to  profit.  Since  the  fourth  century,  the  people  of  the  Kath- 
mandu Valley  have  developed  a  unique  variant  of  South  Asian 
civilization  based  on  Buddhism  and  Hinduism  but  influenced  as 
well  by  the  cultures  of  local  Newar  citizens  and  neighboring  Ti- 
betans. One  of  the  major  themes  in  the  history  of  Nepal  has  been 
the  transmission  of  influences  from  both  the  north  and  the  south 
into  an  original  culture.  During  its  entire  history,  Nepal  has  been 
able  to  continue  this  process  while  remaining  independent. 

The  long-term  trend  in  Nepal  has  been  the  gradual  development 
of  multiple  centers  of  power  and  civilization  and  their  progressive 
incorporation  into  a  varied  but  eventually  united  nation.  The  Lic- 
chavi  (fourth  to  eighth  centuries)  and  Malla  (twelfth  to  eighteenth 
centuries)  kings  may  have  claimed  that  they  were  overlords  of  the 
area  that  is  present-day  Nepal,  but  rarely  did  their  effective  in- 
fluence extend  far  beyond  the  Kathmandu  Valley.  By  the  sixteenth 
century,  there  were  dozens  of  kingdoms  in  the  smaller  valleys  and 
hills  throughout  the  Himalayan  region.  It  was  the  destiny  of  Gor- 
kha,  one  of  these  small  kingdoms,  to  conquer  its  neighbors  and 
finally  unite  the  entire  nation  in  the  late  eighteenth  century.  The 
energy  generated  from  this  union  drove  the  armies  of  Nepal  to  con- 
quer territories  far  to  the  west  and  to  the  east,  as  well  as  to  challenge 
the  Chinese  in  Tibet  and  the  British  in  India.  Wars  with  these  huge 
empires  checked  Nepalese  ambitions,  however,  and  fixed  the 
boundaries  of  the  mountain  kingdom.  Nepal  in  the  late  twentieth 
century  was  still  surrounded  by  giants  and  still  in  the  process  of 
integrating  its  many  localized  economies  and  cultures  into  a  na- 
tion state  based  on  the  ancient  center  of  the  Kathmandu  Valley. 

Nepal  took  a  fateful  turn  in  the  mid-nineteenth  century  when 
its  prime  ministers,  theoretically  administrators  in  service  to  the 
king,  usurped  complete  control  of  the  government  and  reduced  the 
kings  to  puppets.  By  the  1850s,  a  dynasty  of  prime  ministers  called 
Rana  (see  Glossary)  had  imposed  upon  the  country  a  dictatorship 
that  would  last  about  100  years.  The  Ranas  distrusted  both  their 
own  people  and  foreigners — in  short,  anyone  who  could  challenge 
their  own  power  and  change  their  position.  As  the  rest  of  the  world 


3 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

underwent  modernization,  Nepal  remained  a  medieval  nation, 
based  on  the  exploitation  of  peasants  and  some  trade  revenues  and 
dominated  by  a  tradition-bound  aristocracy  that  had  little  interest 
in  modern  science  or  technology. 

After  the  revolt  against  the  Ranas  in  1950,  Nepal  struggled  to 
overcome  its  long  legacy  of  underdevelopment  and  to  incorporate 
its  varied  population  into  a  single  nation.  One  of  the  early  casual- 
ties of  this  process  was  party-based  democracy.  Although  political 
parties  were  crucial  in  the  revolution  that  overthrew  Rana  rule, 
their  constant  wrangling  conflicted  with  the  monarchy's  views  of 
its  own  dignity  and  with  the  interests  of  the  army.  Instead  of  con- 
doning or  encouraging  a  multiparty  democracy,  King  Mahendra 
Bir  Bikram  Shah  Dev  launched  a  coup  in  late  1960  against  Bish- 
weshwar  Prasad  (B.P.)  Koirala's  popularly  elected  government  and 
set  up  a  system  of  indirect  elections  that  created  a  consultative 
democracy.  The  system  served  as  a  sounding  board  for  public  opin- 
ion and  as  a  tool  for  economic  development  without  exercising  ef- 
fective political  power.  Nepal  remained  until  1990  one  of  the  few 
nations  in  the  world  where  the  king,  wielding  absolute  authority 
and  embodying  sacred  tradition,  attempted  to  lead  his  country 
towards  the  twenty-first  century. 

Ancient  Nepal,  ca.  500  B.C.-A.D.  700 
Early  Influences  on  Nepal 

Neolithic  tools  found  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley  indicate  that  peo- 
ple were  living  in  the  Himalayan  region  in  the  distant  past,  although 
their  culture  and  artifacts  are  only  slowly  being  explored.  Written 
references  to  this  region  appeared  only  by  the  first  millennium  B.C. 
During  that  period,  political  or  social  groupings  in  Nepal  became 
known  in  north  India.  The  Mahabharata  and  other  legendary  In- 
dian histories  mention  the  Kiratas  (see  Glossary),  who  still  inhabited 
eastern  Nepal  in  1991 .  Some  legendary  sources  from  the  Kathman- 
du Valley  also  describe  the  Kiratas  as  early  rulers  there,  taking 
over  from  earlier  Gopals  or  Abhiras,  both  of  whom  may  have  been 
cowherding  tribes.  These  sources  agree  that  an  original  popula- 
tion, probably  of  Tibeto-Burman  ethnicity,  lived  in  Nepal  2,500 
years  ago,  inhabiting  small  settlements  with  a  relatively  low  degree 
of  political  centralization. 

Monumental  changes  occurred  when  groups  of  tribes  calling 
themselves  the  Arya  migrated  into  northwest  India  between  2000 
B.C.  and  1500  B.C.  By  the  first  millennium  B.C.,  their  culture  had 
spread  throughout  northern  India.  Their  many  small  kingdoms 


4 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


were  constantly  at  war  amid  the  dynamic  religious  and  cultural 
environment  of  early  Hinduism  (see  Hinduism,  ch.  2).  By  500 
B.C. ,  a  cosmopolitan  society  was  growing  around  urban  sites  linked 
by  trade  routes  that  stretched  throughout  South  Asia  and  beyond. 
On  the  edges  of  the  Gangetic  Plain,  in  the  Tarai  Region,  smaller 
kingdoms  or  confederations  of  tribes  grew  up,  responding  to  dangers 
from  larger  kingdoms  and  opportunities  for  trade.  It  is  probable 
that  slow  and  steady  migration  of  Khasa  (see  Glossary)  peoples 
speaking  Indo-Aryan  languages  was  occurring  in  western  Nepal 
during  this  period;  this  movement  of  peoples  would  continue,  in 
fact,  until  modern  times  and  expand  to  include  the  eastern  Tarai 
as  well  (see  Geography,  ch.  2). 

One  of  the  early  confederations  of  the  Tarai  was  the  Sakya  clan, 
whose  seat  apparently  was  Kapilavastu,  near  Nepal's  present-day 
border  with  India.  The  clan's  most  renowned  son  was  Siddhartha 
Gautama  (ca.  563-483  B.C.),  a  prince  who  rejected  the  world  to 
search  for  the  meaning  of  existence  and  became  known  as  the  Bud- 
dha, or  the  Enlightened  One.  The  earliest  stories  of  his  life  recount 
his  wanderings  in  the  area  stretching  from  the  Tarai  to  Banaras 
on  the  Ganges  River  and  into  modern  Bihar  State  in  India,  where 
he  found  enlightenment  at  Gaya — still  the  site  of  one  of  the  greatest 
Buddhist  shrines.  After  his  death  and  cremation,  his  ashes  were 
distributed  among  some  of  the  major  kingdoms  and  confederations 
and  were  enshrined  under  mounds  of  earth  or  stone  called  stupas. 
Certainly,  his  religion  was  known  at  a  very  early  date  in  Nepal 
through  the  Buddha's  ministry  and  the  activities  of  his  disciples 
(see  Buddhism,  ch.  2). 

The  political  struggles  and  urbanization  of  north  India  culmi- 
nated in  the  great  Mauryan  Empire,  which  at  its  height  under  Asho- 
ka  (reigned  268-31  B.C.)  covered  almost  all  of  South  Asia  and 
stretched  into  Afghanistan  in  the  west.  There  is  no  proof  that  Nepal 
was  ever  included  in  the  empire,  although  records  of  Ashoka  are 
located  at  Lumbini,  the  Buddha's  birthplace,  in  the  Tarai.  But  the 
empire  had  important  cultural  and  political  consequences  for  Nepal. 
First,  Ashoka  himself  embraced  Buddhism,  and  during  his  time 
the  religion  must  have  become  established  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley 
and  throughout  much  of  Nepal.  Ashoka  was  known  as  a  great 
builder  of  stupas,  and  his  archaic  style  is  preserved  in  four  mounds 
on  the  outskirts  of  Patan  (now  often  referred  to  as  Lalitpur),  which 
were  locally  called  Ashok  stupas,  and  possibly  in  the  Svayam- 
bhunath  (or  Swayambhunath)  stupa.  Second,  along  with  religion 
came  an  entire  cultural  style  centered  on  the  king  as  the  upholder 
of  dharma,  or  the  cosmic  law  of  the  universe.  This  political  con- 
cept of  the  king  as  the  righteous  center  of  the  political  system  had 


5 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

a  powerful  impact  on  all  later  South  Asian  governments  and  con- 
tinued to  play  a  major  role  in  modern  Nepal. 

The  Maury  an  Empire  declined  after  the  second  century  B.C., 
and  north  India  entered  a  period  of  political  disunity.  The  extended 
urban  and  commercial  systems  expanded  to  include  much  of  In- 
ner Asia,  however,  and  close  contacts  were  maintained  with  Eu- 
ropean merchants.  Nepal  was  apparently  a  distant  part  of  this 
commercial  network  because  even  Ptolemy  and  other  Greek  writers 
of  the  second  century  knew  of  the  Kiratas  as  a  people  who  lived 
near  China.  North  India  was  united  by  the  Gupta  emperors  again 
in  the  fourth  century.  Their  capital  was  the  old  Maury  an  center 
of  Pataliputra  (present-day  Patna  in  Bihar  State),  during  what  In- 
dian writers  often  describe  as  a  golden  age  of  artistic  and  cultural 
creativity.  The  greatest  conqueror  of  this  dynasty  was  Samudragup- 
ta  (reigned  ca.  353-73),  who  claimed  that  the  "lord  of  Nepal"  paid 
him  taxes  and  tribute  and  obeyed  his  commands.  It  still  is  impos- 
sible to  tell  who  this  lord  may  have  been,  what  area  he  ruled,  and 
if  he  was  really  a  subordinate  of  the  Guptas.  Some  of  the  earliest 
examples  of  Nepalese  art  show  that  the  culture  of  north  India  dur- 
ing Gupta  times  exercised  a  decisive  influence  on  Nepali  language, 
religion,  and  artistic  expression. 

The  Early  Kingdom  of  the  Licchavis,  400-750 

In  the  late  fifth  century,  rulers  calling  themselves  Licchavis  be- 
gan to  record  details  on  politics,  society,  and  economy  in  Nepal. 
The  Licchavis  were  known  from  early  Buddhist  legends  as  a  rul- 
ing family  during  the  Buddha's  time  in  India,  and  the  founder  of 
the  Gupta  Dynasty  claimed  that  he  had  married  a  Licchavi  prin- 
cess. Perhaps  some  members  of  this  Licchavi  family  married  mem- 
bers of  a  local  royal  family  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley,  or  perhaps 
the  illustrious  history  of  the  name  prompted  early  Nepalese  nota- 
bles to  identify  themselves  with  it.  In  any  case,  the  Licchavis  of 
Nepal  were  a  strictly  local  dynasty  based  in  the  Kathmandu  Val- 
ley and  oversaw  the  growth  of  the  first  truly  Nepalese  state. 

The  earliest  known  Licchavi  record,  an  inscription  of  Mana- 
deva  I,  dates  from  464,  and  mentions  three  preceding  rulers, 
suggesting  that  the  dynasty  began  in  the  late  fourth  century.  The 
last  Licchavi  inscription  was  in  A.D.  733.  All  of  the  Licchavi  records 
are  deeds  reporting  donations  to  religious  foundations,  pre- 
dominantly Hindu  temples.  The  language  of  the  inscriptions  is 
Sanskrit,  the  language  of  the  court  in  north  India,  and  the  script 
is  closely  related  to  official  Gupta  scripts.  There  is  little  doubt  that 
India  exerted  a  powerful  cultural  influence,  especially  through  the 
area  called  Mithila,  the  northern  part  of  present-day  Bihar  State. 


6 


Svayambhunath  stupa, 
decked  with  multicolored 
Buddhist  prayer  flags 
Courtesy  Harvey  Follender 


Politically,  however,  India  again  was  divided  for  most  of  the  Lic- 
chavi  period. 

To  the  north,  Tibet  grew  into  an  expansive  military  power 
through  the  seventh  century,  declining  only  by  843.  Some  early 
historians,  such  as  the  French  scholar  Sylvain  Levi,  thought  that 
Nepal  may  have  become  subordinate  to  Tibet  for  some  time,  but 
more  recent  Nepalese  historians,  including  Dilli  Raman  Regmi, 
deny  this  interpretation.  In  any  case,  from  the  seventh  century  on- 
ward a  recurring  pattern  of  foreign  relations  emerged  for  rulers 
in  Nepal:  more  intensive  cultural  contacts  with  the  south,  poten- 
tial political  threats  from  both  India  and  Tibet,  and  continuing  trade 
contacts  in  both  directions. 

The  Licchavi  political  system  closely  resembled  that  of  north- 
ern India.  At  the  top  was  the  "great  king"  (maharaja),  who  in 
theory  exercised  absolute  power  but  in  reality  interfered  little  in 
the  social  lives  of  his  subjects.  Their  behavior  was  regulated  in  ac- 
cordance with  dharma  through  their  own  village  and  caste  coun- 
cils. The  king  was  aided  by  royal  officers  led  by  a  prime  minister, 
who  also  served  as  a  military  commander.  As  the  preserver  of  right- 
eous moral  order,  the  king  had  no  set  limit  for  his  domain,  whose 
borders  were  determined  only  by  the  power  of  his  army  and 
statecraft — an  ideology  that  supported  almost  unceasing  warfare 
throughout  South  Asia.  In  Nepal's  case,  the  geographic  realities 
of  the  hills  limited  the  Licchavi  kingdom  to  the  Kathmandu  Valley 


7 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

and  neighboring  valleys  and  to  the  more  symbolic  submission  of 
less  hierarchical  societies  to  the  east  and  west.  Within  the  Licchavi 
system,  there  was  ample  room  for  powerful  notables  (samanta)  to 
keep  their  own  private  armies,  run  their  own  landholdings,  and 
influence  the  court.  There  was  thus  a  variety  of  forces  struggling 
for  power.  During  the  seventh  century,  a  family  known  as  the  Ab- 
hira  Guptas  accumulated  enough  influence  to  take  over  the  govern- 
ment. The  prime  minister,  Amsuvarman,  assumed  the  throne 
between  approximately  605  and  641,  after  which  the  Licchavis 
regained  power.  The  later  history  of  Nepal  offers  similar  exam- 
ples, but  behind  these  struggles  was  growing  a  long  tradition  of 
kingship. 

The  economy  of  the  Kathmandu  Valley  already  was  based  on 
agriculture  during  the  Licchavi  period.  Artworks  and  place-names 
mentioned  in  inscriptions  show  that  settlements  had  filled  the  en- 
tire valley  and  moved  east  toward  Banepa,  west  toward  Tisting, 
and  northwest  toward  present-day  Gorkha.  Peasants  lived  in  vil- 
lages (grama)  that  were  administratively  grouped  into  larger  units 
(drangd) .  They  grew  rice  and  other  grains  as  staples  on  lands  owned 
by  the  royal  family,  other  major  families,  Buddhist  monastic  or- 
ders (sangha),  or  groups  of  Brahmans  (agrahara).  Land  taxes  due 
in  theory  to  the  king  were  often  allocated  to  religious  or  charitable 
foundations,  and  additional  labor  dues  (vishti)  were  required  from 
the  peasantry  in  order  to  keep  up  irrigation  works,  roads,  and 
shrines.  The  village  head  (usually  known  as  pradhan,  meaning  a 
leader  in  family  or  society),  and  leading  families  handled  most  lo- 
cal administrative  issues,  forming  the  village  assembly  of  leaders 
(panchalika  or  grama  pane ha).  This  ancient  history  of  localized  deci- 
sion making  served  as  a  model  for  late  twentieth-century  develop- 
ment efforts. 

One  of  the  most  striking  features  of  present-day  Kathmandu  Val- 
ley is  its  vibrant  urbanism,  notably  at  Kathmandu,  Patan,  and 
Bhadgaon  (also  called  Bhaktapur),  which  apparently  goes  back  to 
ancient  times.  During  the  Licchavi  period,  however,  the  settlement 
pattern  seems  to  have  been  much  more  diffuse  and  sparse.  In  the 
present-day  city  of  Kathmandu,  there  existed  two  early  villages — 
Koligrama  ("Village  of  the  Kolis,"  or  Yambu  in  Newari),  and 
Dakshinakoligrama  ("South  Koli  Village,"  or  Yangala  in  Newari) — 
that  grew  up  around  the  valley's  main  trade  route.  Bhadgaon  was 
simply  a  small  village  then  called  Khoprn  (Khoprngrama  in  San- 
skrit) along  the  same  trade  route.  The  site  of  Patan  was  known 
as  Yala  ("Village  of  the  Sacrificial  Post,"  or  Yupagrama  in  San- 
skrit). In  view  of  the  four  archaic  stupas  on  its  outskirts  and  its 
very  old  tradition  of  Buddhism,  Patan  probably  can  claim  to  be 


8 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


the  oldest  true  center  in  the  nation.  Licchavi  palaces  or  public  build- 
ings, however,  have  not  survived.  The  truly  important  public 
sites  in  those  days  were  religious  foundations,  including  the  ori- 
ginal stupas  at  Svayambhunath,  Bodhnath,  and  Chabahil,  as  well 
as  the  shrine  of  Shiva  at  Deopatan,  and  the  shrine  of  Vishnu  at 
Hadigaon. 

There  was  a  close  relationship  between  the  Licchavi  settlements 
and  trade.  The  Kolis  of  present-day  Kathmandu  and  the  Vrijis 
of  present-day  Hadigaon  were  known  even  in  the  Buddha's  time 
as  commercial  and  political  confederations  in  north  India.  By  the 
time  of  the  Licchavi  kingdom,  trade  had  long  been  intimately  con- 
nected with  the  spread  of  Buddhism  and  religious  pilgrimage.  One 
of  the  main  contributions  of  Nepal  during  this  period  was  the  trans- 
mission of  Buddhist  culture  to  Tibet  and  all  of  central  Asia,  through 
merchants,  pilgrims,  and  missionaries.  In  return,  Nepal  gained 
money  from  customs  duties  and  goods  that  helped  to  support  the 
Licchavi  state,  as  well  as  the  artistic  heritage  that  made  the  valley 
famous. 

Medieval  Nepal,  750-1750 

Transition  to  the  Medieval  Kingdom,  750-1000 

The  period  following  the  decline  of  the  Licchavi  Dynasty  wit- 
nessed little  growth  in  the  geographical  or  administrative  power 
of  the  Nepalese  state.  In  fact,  it  is  the  least  understood  time  in 
Nepal's  history,  with  only  a  very  few  inscriptional  sources  sup- 
plemented by  some  dated  religious  manuscripts.  It  appears  that 
the  Kathmandu  Valley  and  surrounding  valleys  officially  remained 
part  of  a  single  political  unit,  although  there  were  struggles  for  the 
throne  among  different  royal  lineages  and  notable  families.  Dona- 
tions to  religious  foundations  were  dated  by  a  new  Newari  era  be- 
ginning in  879,  a  development  suggesting  the  founding  of  a  new 
dynasty.  Surviving  records  show  a  movement  away  from  Sanskrit 
and  admixtures  of  early  Newari,  the  language  of  the  Newar  peo- 
ple in  the  valley. 

The  main  influences  on  Nepal  continued  to  come  from  Mithila 
or  Tirhut  to  the  south.  This  area  came  intermittently  under  the 
domination  of  warriors  allied  to  the  Chalukya  Dynasty  from  Kar- 
nataka  in  southern  India.  One  of  their  lieutenants  proclaimed  him- 
self king  in  1097  and  founded  a  capital  at  Simraongarh  in  the  Tarai. 
From  there  he  launched  raids  that  allowed  the  Chalukyas  to  later 
claim  domination  over  Nepal  without  exerting  a  perceptible  im- 
pact on  Nepalese  history.  By  the  late  twelfth  century,  however, 
the  king  in  Nepal  was  called  Somesvaradeva  (or  Someswaradeva, 


9 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

reigned  ca.  1 178-85),  a  name  of  Chalukya  kings,  indicating  some 
degree  of  political  contact  with  Indian  rulers.  By  the  end  of  Some- 
svaradeva's  reign,  there  was  evidence  of  mounting  political  chaos 
and  fighting  for  the  throne. 

Profound  changes  were  occurring  in  the  religious  system  of 
Nepal.  The  early  patronage  of  Buddhism  by  the  kings  gave  way 
to  a  more  strictly  Hindu  devotion,  based  on  the  worship  of  a  vari- 
ety of  deities  but  ultimately  relying  on  Pashupatinath,  the  site  of 
one  of  Hinduism's  most  sacred  Shiva  shrines.  Within  the  Bud- 
dhist community,  the  role  of  the  monks  and  monasteries  changed 
slowly  but  radically.  Early  Buddhism  had  rested  on  the  celibacy 
and  meditation  of  monks  and  nuns  who  had  withdrawn  from  the 
world  in  their  own  living  complexes  (vihara).  As  a  more  ritualistic 
vajrayana  Buddhism  expanded,  a  division  grew  up  between  the 
"teachers  of  the  thunderbolt"  (vqjracharyd)  and  ordinary  monks 
(bhikshu),  leading  to  caste-like  divisions  and  the  marriage  of  reli- 
gious teachers.  The  higher-ranking  teachers  monopolized  the  wor- 
ship in  the  monasteries  and  controlled  the  revenues  brought  in  from 
monastic  estates.  Monasteries  became  social  and  economic  centers, 
serving  as  workshops  and  apartments  as  well  as  shrines.  These  roles 
were  kept  intact  well  into  the  twentieth  century. 

The  Malla  Kings 

Beginning  in  the  early  twelfth  century,  leading  notables  in  Nepal 
began  to  appear  with  names  ending  in  the  term  malla,  (wrestler 
in  Sanskrit),  indicating  a  person  of  great  strength  and  power. 
Arimalla  (reigned  1200-16)  was  the  first  king  to  be  so  called,  and 
the  practice  of  adopting  such  a  name  was  followed  regularly  by 
rulers  in  Nepal  until  the  eighteenth  century.  (The  names  of  the 
Malla  kings  were  also  represented  as,  for  example,  Ari  Malla.)  This 
long  Malla  period  witnessed  the  continued  importance  of  the  Kath- 
mandu  Valley  as  a  political,  cultural,  and  economic  center  of  Nepal. 
Other  areas  also  began  to  emerge  as  significant  centers  in  their  own 
right,  increasingly  connected  to  the  Kathmandu  Valley. 

The  time  of  the  earlier  Malla  kings  was  not  one  of  consolidation 
but  was  instead  a  period  of  upheaval  in  and  around  Nepal.  In  the 
twelfth  century,  Muslim  Turks  set  up  a  powerful  kingdom  in  In- 
dia at  Delhi,  and  in  the  thirteenth  century  they  expanded  their  con- 
trol over  most  of  northern  India.  During  this  process,  all  of  the 
regional  kingdoms  in  India  underwent  a  major  reshuffling  and  con- 
siderable fighting  before  they  eventually  fell  under  Delhi's  control. 
This  process  resulted  in  an  increasing  militarization  of  Nepal's 
neighbors  and  sections  of  Nepal  as  well.  For  example,  in  western 
Nepal,  around  Dullu  in  the  Jumla  Valley,  an  alternative  seat  of 


10 


Majestic  view,  Shipton  Pass,  in  the  Makulu  region 

Courtesy  Linda  Galantin 

political  and  military  power  grew  up  around  a  separate  dynasty 
of  Mallas  (who  were  not  related  to  the  Mallas  of  the  Kathmandu 
Valley),  who  reigned  until  the  fourteenth  century.  These  Khasa 
kings  expanded  into  parts  of  western  Tibet  and  sent  raiding  expe- 
ditions into  the  Kathmandu  Valley  between  1275  and  1335.  In  1312 
the  Khasa  king,  Ripumalla,  visited  Lumbini  and  had  his  own  in- 
scription carved  on  Ashoka's  pillar.  He  then  entered  the  Kathman- 
du Valley  to  worship  publicly  at  Matsyendranath,  Pashupatinath, 
and  Svayambhunath.  These  acts  were  all  public  announcements 
of  his  overlordship  in  Nepal  and  signified  the  temporary  break- 
down of  royal  power  within  the  valley.  At  the  same  time,  the  rul- 
ers in  Tirhut  to  the  south  led  raids  into  the  valley  until  they  were 
in  turn  overrun  by  agents  of  the  Delhi  Sultanate.  The  worst  blow 
came  in  1345-46,  when  Sultan  Shams  ud-din  Ilyas  of  Bengal  led 
a  major  pillaging  expedition  into  the  Kathmandu  Valley,  result- 
ing in  the  devastation  of  all  major  shrines.  In  fact,  none  of  the  ex- 
isting buildings  in  the  valley  proper  dates  from  before  this  raid. 

The  early  Malla  period,  a  time  of  continuing  trade  and  the  rein- 
troduction  of  Nepalese  coinage,  saw  the  steady  growth  of  the  small 
towns  that  became  Kathmandu,  Patan,  and  Bhadgaon.  Royal 
pretenders  in  Patan  and  Bhadgaon  struggled  with  their  main  rivals, 
the  lords  of  Banepa  in  the  east,  relying  on  the  populations  of  their 


11 


Xepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

towns  as  their  power  bases.  The  citizens  of  Bhadgaon  viewed 
Devaladevi  as  the  legitimate,  independent  queen.  The  betrothal 
in  1354  of  her  granddaughter  to  Jayasthitimalla.  a  man  of  obscure 
but  apparently  high  birth,  eventually  led  to  the  reunification  of  the 
land  and  a  lessening  of  strife  among  the  towns. 

By  1370  Jayasthitimalla  controlled  Patan,  and  in  1374  his  forces 
defeated  those  in  Banepa  and  Pharping.  He  then  took  full  control 
of  the  country  from  1382  until  1395.  reigning  in  Bhadgaon  as  the 
husband  of  the  queen  and  in  Patan  with  full  regal  tides.  His  authori- 
ty was  not  absolute  because  the  lords  of  Banepa  were  able  to  pass 
themselves  off  as  kings  to  ambassadors  of  the  Chinese  Ming  em- 
peror who  traveled  to  Xepal  during  this  time.  Nevertheless. 
Jayasthitimalla  united  the  entire  valley  and  its  environs  under  his 
sole  rule,  an  accomplishment  still  remembered  with  pride  by  Nepa- 
lese.  particularly  Xewars.  The  first  comprehensive  codification  of 
law  in  Xepal.  based  on  the  dharma  of  ancient  religious  textbooks, 
is  ascribed  to  Jayasthitimalla.  This  legendary  compilation  of  tra- 
ditions was  seen  as  the  source  of  legal  reforms  during  the  nineteenth 
and  twentieth  centuries. 

After  the  death  of  Jayasthitimalla.  his  sons  divided  the  kingdom 
and  ruled  collegially.  until  Jay ajyotirmalla.  the  last  surviving  son. 
ruled  on  his  own  from  1408  to  1428.  His  son.  Yakshamalla  (reigned 
ca.  1428-82),  represented  the  high  point  of  the  M alias  as  rulers 
of  a  united  Xepal.  Under  his  rule,  a  military  raid  was  launched 
against  the  plains  to  the  south,  a  very  rare  event  in  Xepalese  his- 
tory. Yakshamalla  built  the  Mul  Chok  in  1455.  which  remains  the 
oldest  palace  section  in  Bhadgaon.  The  struggles  among  the  land- 
ed aristocracy  and  leading  town  families  (pradhan),  especially  acute 
in  Patan.  were  controlled  during  his  reign.  Outlying  areas  such 
as  Banepa  and  Pharping  were  semi-independent  but  acknowledged 
the  leadership  of  the  king.  X'ewari  appeared  more  often  as  the  lan- 
guage of  choice  in  official  documents.  The  royal  family  began  to 
accept  Manesvari  (also  known  as  Taleju).  a  manifestation  of  Shi- 
va's consort,  as  their  personal  deity. 

The  Three  Kingdoms 

After  1482.  a  crucial  date  in  Xepalese  history,  the  kingdom  be- 
came divided.  At  first,  the  six  sons  of  Yakshamalla  attempted  to 
reign  collegially.  in  their  grandfathers'  pattern.  Ratnamalla  was 
the  first  to  rebel  against  this  system  of  joint  rule,  seizing  Kathmandu 
in  1484  and  ruling  there  alone  until  his  death  in  1520.  Rayamalla, 
the  eldest  brother,  ruled  Bhadgaon  with  the  other  brothers  until  his 
death,  when  the  crown  there  passed  into  the  hands  of  his  descen- 
dants. Banepa  broke  away  under  Ramamalla  until  its  reincorporation 


12 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


into  the  Bhadgaon  kingdom  in  1649.  Patan  remained  aloof,  domi- 
nated by  factions  of  its  local  nobility,  until  Sivasimhamalla,  a 
descendant  of  Ratnamalla,  conquered  it  in  1597  and  united  it  with 
Kathmandu.  On  his  death,  however,  Kathmandu  and  Patan  were 
given  to  different  grandsons  and  again  separated.  The  center  of 
Nepal  thus  remained  split  into  three  competing  kingdoms,  rough- 
ly based  on  Bhadgaon,  Kathmandu,  and  Patan.  The  influence  of 
these  petty  kingdoms  outside  the  valley  varied  over  time.  Bhad- 
gaon extended  its  feeble  power  as  far  as  the  Dudh  Kosi  in  the  east, 
Kathmandu  controlled  areas  to  the  north  and  as  far  west  as 
Nuwakot,  and  Patan  included  territories  to  the  south  as  far  as  Mak- 
wanpur.  The  relationships  among  the  kingdoms  within  the  valley 
became  quite  convoluted.  Although  all  three  ruling  houses  were 
related  and  periodically  intermarried,  their  squabbles  over  minus- 
cule territorial  gains  or  ritual  slights  repeatedly  led  to  warfare.  The 
kings  attended  coronation  rituals  or  marriages  at  each  other's  cap- 
itals and  then  plotted  the  downfalls  of  their  relatives. 

The  period  of  the  three  kingdoms — the  time  of  the  later  Mallas — 
lasted  until  the  mid-eighteenth  century.  The  complete  flowering 
of  the  unique  culture  of  the  Kathmandu  Valley  occurred  during 
this  period,  and  it  was  also  during  this  time  that  the  old  palace 
complexes  in  the  three  main  towns  achieved  much  of  their  present- 
day  forms.  The  kings  still  based  their  legitimate  rule  on  their  role 
as  protectors  of  dharma,  and  often  they  were  devout  donors  to  re- 
ligious shrines.  Kings  built  many  of  the  older  temples  in  the  val- 
ley, gems  of  late  medieval  art  and  architecture,  during  this  late 
Malla  period.  Buddhism  remained  a  vital  force  for  much  of  the 
population,  especially  in  its  old  seat  of  Patan.  Religious  endow- 
ments called  guthi  arranged  for  long-term  support  of  traditional 
forms  of  worship  or  ritual  by  allowing  temple  or  vihara  lands  to 
pass  down  through  generations  of  the  same  families;  this  support 
resulted  in  the  preservation  of  a  conservative  art,  architecture,  and 
religious  literature  that  had  disappeared  in  other  areas  of  South 
Asia.  Newari  was  in  regular  use  as  a  literary  language  by  the  four- 
teenth century  and  was  the  main  language  in  urban  areas  and  trad- 
ing circles  based  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley.  Maithili,  the  language 
of  the  Tirhut  area  to  the  south,  became  a  popular  court  language 
during  the  seventeenth  century  and  still  was  spoken  by  many  peo- 
ple in  the  Tarai  in  the  late  twentieth  century.  In  the  west,  Khas 
bhasha,  or  the  language  of  the  Khasa,  was  slowly  expanding,  only 
later  to  evolve  into  present-day  Nepali. 

The  final  centuries  of  Malla  rule  were  a  time  of  great  political 
change  outside  the  Kathmandu  Valley.  In  India  overlordship  in 
Delhi  fell  to  the  powerful  Mughal  Dynasty  (1526-1858).  Although 


13 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

the  Mughals  never  exercised  direct  lordship  over  Nepal,  their  em- 
pire had  a  major  indirect  impact  on  its  institutional  life.  During 
the  sixteenth  century,  when  the  Mughals  were  spreading  their  rule 
over  almost  all  of  South  Asia,  many  dispossessed  princes  from  the 
plains  of  northern  India  found  shelter  in  the  hills  to  the  north. 

Legends  indicated  that  many  small  principalities  in  western  Nepal 
originated  in  migration  and  conquest  by  exiled  warriors,  who  add- 
ed to  the  slow  spread  of  the  Khasa  language  and  culture  in  the  west. 
Along  with  these  exiles  came  Mughal  military  technology,  includ- 
ing firearms  and  artillery,  and  administrative  techniques  based  on 
land  grants  in  return  for  military  service.  The  influence  of  the 
Mughals  is  reflected  in  the  weapons  and  dress  of  Malla  rulers  in 
contemporary  paintings  and  in  the  adoption  of  Persian  terminolo- 
gy for  administrative  offices  and  procedures  throughout  Nepal. 

Meanwhile,  in  Tibet  domestic  struggles  during  the  1720s  led  to 
decisive  intervention  by  the  powerful  Qing  rulers  of  China 
(1644-1911).  A  Chinese  force  installed  the  sixth  Dalai  Lama  (the 
highest  ranking  Tibetan  religious  leader)  in  Lhasa  in  1728,  and 
thereafter  the  Chinese  stationed  military  governors  iamban)  in  Lhasa 
to  monitor  local  events.  In  1729  representatives  of  the  three  Nepalese 
kingdoms  sent  greetings  and  presents  to  the  Chinese  emperor  in 
Beijing,  after  which  the  Qing  viewed  Nepal  as  an  outlying  tribu- 
tary kingdom  (a  perception  not  shared  within  Nepal).  The  expan- 
sion of  big  empires  in  both  the  north  and  south  thus  took  place 
during  a  time  when  Nepal  was  experiencing  considerable  weak- 
ness in  its  traditional  center.  The  three  kingdoms  lived  a  charmed 
life — isolated,  independent,  and  quarreling  in  their  mountain 
valley — as  the  systems  around  them  became  larger  and  more  cen- 
tralized. 

By  the  seventeenth  century,  the  mountain  areas  to  the  north  of 
the  valley  and  the  Kiranti  region  to  the  east  were  the  only  areas 
that  maintained  traditional  tribal  communal  systems,  influenced 
to  various  degrees  by  Hindu  ideas  and  practices.  In  the  west  and 
the  south  of  the  three  kingdoms,  there  were  many  petty  states  ruled 
by  dynasties  of  warrior  (Kshatriya)  status,  many  claiming  an  ori- 
gin among  princely,  or  Rajput,  dynasties  to  the  south.  In  the  near 
west,  around  the  Narayani  River  system  (the  Narayani  was  one 
of  the  seven  Gandak  rivers),  there  was  a  loose  confederation  of  prin- 
cipalities called  the  Chaubisi  (the  Twenty-four),  including  Mak- 
wanpur  and  Palpa.  In  the  far  west,  around  the  Karnali  River 
system,  there  was  a  separate  confederation  called  the  Baisi  (the 
Twenty-two),  headed  by  the  raja  of  Jumla.  The  confederations 
were  in  constant  conflict,  and  their  member  states  were  constantly 


14 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


quarreling  with  each  other.  The  kingdoms  of  Kathmandu,  Patan, 
and  Bhadgaon  periodically  allied  themselves  with  princes  among 
these  confederations.  All  of  these  small,  increasingly  militarized 
states  were  operating  individually  at  a  higher  level  of  centralized 
organization  than  ever  before  in  the  hills,  but  they  were  expend- 
ing their  resources  in  an  almost  anarchic  struggle  for  survival.  There 
was  an  awareness  of  the  distinct  culture  of  the  Himalayan  area  but 
no  real  concept  of  Nepal  as  a  nation. 

The  first  contacts  between  the  people  of  Nepal  and  Europeans 
also  occurred  during  the  period  of  the  later  Mallas.  The  Portuguese 
missionaries  John  Cabral  and  Stephen  Cacella  visited  Lhasa  in 
1628,  after  which  Cabral  traveled  to  Nepal.  The  first  Capuchin 
mission  was  founded  in  Kathmandu  in  1715.  These  contacts, 
however,  affected  only  a  minuscule  number  of  people.  Of  far  greater 
importance  was  the  growth  of  British  power  in  India,  notably  in 
Bengal  to  the  southeast  of  Nepal,  during  the  eighteenth  century. 
By  1764  the  British  East  India  Company,  officially  a  private  trad- 
ing corporation  with  its  own  army,  had  obtained  from  a  decaying 
Mughal  Empire  the  right  to  govern  all  of  Bengal,  at  that  time  one 
of  the  most  prosperous  areas  in  Asia.  The  company  explored  pos- 
sibilities for  expanding  its  trade  or  authority  into  Nepal,  Bhutan, 
and  toward  Tibet,  where  the  Nepalese  had  their  own  trading  agen- 
cies in  important  settlements  (see  fig.  2).  The  increasingly  power- 
ful company  was  emerging  as  a  wild  card  that  could  in  theory  be 
played  by  one  or  more  of  the  kingdoms  in  Nepal  during  local  strug- 
gles, potentially  opening  the  entire  Himalayan  region  to  British 
penetration. 

The  Making  of  Modern  Nepal 

The  Expansion  of  Gorkha 

Among  the  small  hill  states  struggling  for  power  during  the  later 
Malla  period  was  Gorkha  (see  Glossary),  founded  in  1559  by 
Dravya  Shah  in  an  area  chiefly  inhabited  by  Magars.  Legends  trace 
his  dynasty  to  warrior  princes  who  immigrated  from  Rajputana 
in  India  during  the  fifteenth  century.  During  its  early  fight  for  ex- 
istence, the  House  of  Gorkha  stayed  out  of  the  two  major  confeder- 
ations in  western  Nepal.  No  major  expansion  of  the  kingdom 
occurred  until  the  reign  of  Ram  Shah,  from  1606  to  1633,  who 
extended  his  territories  slightly  in  all  directions.  During  the  seven- 
teenth and  early  eighteenth  centuries,  Gorkha  continued  a  slow 
expansion  and  appeared  increasingly  often  as  an  ally  of  one  or  more 
of  the  three  kingdoms  in  their  quarrels  with  each  other,  giving  the 
rulers  of  the  hill  state  experience  in  the  affairs  of  the  Kathmandu 


15 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


SOVIET 
UNION 


r-1 


International  boundary 

International  boundary 
in  dispute 

National  capital 

Populated  place 

1 00      200  Kilometers 


^^AFGHANISTAN 


PAKISTAN 


L 

V 


^  Jammu 
L. 


■ 

9  Lahore 

> 


\ 

x 

t 


CHINA 


Dehra 
Dun  M 


V 


0e//i/\ 


V 


NEPAL 


s 


V.  Kathmandu^  :}/.      r  ]  / 


Gorakhpur 


Gangtoi<mS 


Patna 


(BANGLADESHI 


+  f*^ 

INDIA    V  o 

S 


Figure  2.  Nepal  and  Bhutan,  1991 


16 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


Valley.  Nar  Bhupal  Shah  (reigned  1716-42)  extended  his  lands 
toward  the  Kairang  Pass  in  the  north  and  Nuwakot  in  the  east. 
He  attempted  to  take  Nuwakot  and  failed,  but  he  did  arrange  the 
marriage  of  his  son  to  the  daughter  of  the  raja  of  Makwanpur. 

This  son,  Prithvi  Narayan  Shah  (reigned  1743-75),  made  full 
use  of  his  position  to  achieve  supreme  power  and  was  one  of  the 
great  figures  in  Nepalese  history.  Following  in  his  father's  foot- 
steps, he  apparently  dedicated  himself  at  an  early  age  to  the  con- 
quest of  the  valley  and  the  creation  of  a  single  state.  Before  going 
on  the  offensive,  he  traveled  to  Banaras,  or  Varanasi,  to  seek  finan- 
cial assistance  and  purchase  armaments,  thus  obtaining  a  personal 
view  of  conditions  in  the  outside  world,  especially  the  position  of 
the  British  East  India  Company.  On  his  return  to  Gorkha,  he  es- 
tablished a  number  of  arsenals  and  trained  his  troops  to  use  the 
more  modern  weapons  he  had  obtained  in  India.  He  arranged  al- 
liances with,  or  bought  the  neutrality  of,  neighboring  states. 

When  King  Ranajit  of  Bhadgaon  (reigned  1722-69)  quarreled 
with  King  Jayaprakasa  of  Kathmandu  (reigned  1735-68),  Prithvi 
Narayan  Shah  took  Nuwakot  and  laid  siege  to  Kirtipur,  which  was 
controlled  by  the  king  of  Patan,  Tej  Narasimha  (reigned  1765-68). 
During  the  fighting,  Prithvi  Narayan  Shah  was  almost  killed,  and 
when  his  troops  failed  to  take  the  town,  he  withdrew.  At  this  point, 
he  changed  direction,  as  the  Gorkhas  were  to  do  effectively  time 
and  again.  The  Gorkhas  instituted  a  blockade  of  the  entire  valley, 
closed  off  all  trade  routes,  and  began  executing  blockade  runners. 
Gorkha  agents  remained  active  in  the  towns,  and  the  army  attempt- 
ed to  starve  the  valley  into  submission. 

When  a  second  siege  of  Kirtipur  also  was  unsuccessful,  Prithvi 
Narayan  Shah  turned  his  attention  toward  Lamji,  one  of  the  Chau- 
bisi  principalities,  and  overran  it  after  several  bloody  battles.  The 
Gorkha  army  reappeared  at  Kirtipur.  After  a  siege  of  six  months, 
the  town  was  treacherously  delivered  to  the  Gorkhas,  and  its  in- 
habitants were  deliberately  mutilated.  The  Gorkhas  moved  on  to 
Patan  in  1767,  but  their  attention  was  diverted  by  the  appearance 
of  a  2,400-man  expeditionary  force  sent  by  the  British  East  India 
Company  to  aid  the  traditional  kings  of  the  valley.  The  British 
column,  ravaged  by  malaria  contracted  in  the  Tarai,  had  to  with- 
draw quickly  without  accomplishing  anything  other  than  delaying 
the  Gorkhas.  This  token  opposition  by  the  British,  however,  was 
not  forgotten  by  Prithvi  Narayan  Shah  and  his  successors.  With 
the  field  again  clear,  on  September  29,  1768,  Gorkha  troops  in- 
filtrated Kathmandu  while  the  population  was  celebrating  a  reli- 
gious festival  and  took  the  town  without  a  fight.  Jayaprakasa  fled 
to  Bhadgaon  with  Tej  Narasimha,  and  Prithvi  Narayan  Shah  was 


17 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

crowned  king  of  Kathmandu.  He  soon  entered  Patan  unopposed 
and  then  moved  against  villages  east  of  Bhadgaon,  arriving  before 
the  town  the  next  year.  His  troops  were  admitted  into  Bhadgaon 
by  nobles  who  had  been  bought  off.  Ranajit  retired  to  Banaras, 
Jayaprakasa  retired  to  die  at  the  shrine  of  Pashupatinath,  and  Tej 
Narasimha  died  in  prison.  For  the  first  time,  the  hill  ruler,  the  raja 
of  Gorkha,  had  become  sole  ruler  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley.  One 
of  his  first  acts  in  1769  was  to  expel  permanently  from  his  territo- 
ries all  foreigners,  including  traders,  Roman  Catholic  missionaries, 
and  even  musicians  or  artists  influenced  by  northern  India's  style. 

The  conquest  of  the  three  kingdoms  was  only  the  beginning  of 
a  remarkable  explosion  of  Gorkha  military  power  throughout  the 
Himalayan  region.  Prithvi  Narayan  Shah  quickly  made  a  move- 
ment toward  the  Chaubisi  states  in  the  west,  but  after  encounter- 
ing resistance  in  Tanahu,  the  Gorkha  armies  drove  east  into  the 
Kirata  country,  overrunning  all  of  eastern  Nepal  by  1773.  They 
were  poised  for  the  invasion  of  Sikkim,  but  because  its  rulers  came 
from  Tibet,  Sikkim  was  viewed  as  a  client  of  Tibet  (and  thus  of 
the  Chinese).  A  warning  from  Tibet  and  the  death  of  Prithvi 
Narayan  Shah  in  1775  stalled  hostilities,  but  a  full-scale  invasion 
began  in  1779.  Resistance  was  encountered  until  1788,  when  Gor- 
kha forces  drove  the  ruler  of  Sikkim  into  exile  in  Tibet  and  occupied 
all  of  western  Sikkim.  Guerrilla  warfare  continued  as  the  Gorkhas 
constructed  a  base  near  Vijaypur  to  administer  the  eastern  con- 
quests. In  the  west,  a  marriage  alliance  with  the  rajas  of  Palpa  kept 
them  quiet  while  General  Ram  Krishna  Rana  conquered  Tanahu 
and  Lamjung  (Gorkha' s  traditional  rival)  and  advanced  to  Kaski 
by  1785.  By  1790  all  rulers  as  far  as  the  Kali  River  had  submitted 
to  the  Gorkhas  or  had  been  replaced.  Even  farther  to  the  west  lay 
Kumaon,  in  the  throes  of  civil  strife  between  two  coalitions  of  zamin- 
dar  (large  landowners  responsible  for  tax  collection  in  their  juris- 
dictions), who  struggled  to  control  the  monarchy.  One  group  invited 
the  intervention  of  the  Gorkhas,  who  defeated  local  forces  in  two 
battles  and  occupied  the  capital,  Almora,  in  1790.  The  Gorkhas 
were  poised  for  greater  adventures,  but  by  then  they  were  irritating 
bigger  players  and  began  to  encounter  resistance  to  their  ambitions. 

The  Struggle  for  Power  at  Court 

The  premature  death  of  Pratap  Singh  Shah  (reigned  1775-77), 
the  eldest  son  of  Prithvi  Narayan  Shah,  left  a  huge  power  vacuum 
that  remained  unfilled  for  decades,  seriously  debilitating  the  emerg- 
ing Nepalese  state.  Pratap  Singh  Shah's  successor  was  his  son,  Rana 
Bahadur  Shah  (reigned  1777-99),  aged  two  and  one-half  years  at  his 
accession.  The  acting  regent  until  1785  was  Queen  Rajendralakshmi, 


18 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


followed  by  Bahadur  Shah  (reigned  1785-94),  the  second  son  of 
Prithvi  Narayan  Shah.  Court  life  was  consumed  by  rivalry  cen- 
tered on  alignments  with  these  two  regents  rather  than  on  issues 
of  national  administration.  In  1794  the  king  came  of  age,  and  in 
1797  he  began  to  exercise  power  on  his  own.  Rana  Bahadur's  youth 
had  been  spent  in  pampered  luxury  amid  deadly  intrigue  and  had 
made  him  incapable  of  running  either  his  own  life  or  the  country. 
He  became  infatuated  with  a  Maithili  Brahman  widow,  Kantava- 
ti,  and  cleared  the  way  to  the  throne  for  their  illegitimate  son,  Gir- 
van  Yuddha  Shah.  Disconsolate  after  the  death  of  his  mistress  in 
1799,  Rana  Bahadur  began  to  engage  in  such  irrational  behavior 
that  leading  citizens  demanded  his  abdication.  He  was  forced  to 
turn  his  throne  over  to  Girvan  Yuddha  Shah,  aged  one  and  one- 
half  years,  and  retired  to  Banaras. 

During  the  minority  of  the  king,  Damodar  Pande  took  over  the 
administration  as  mukhtiyar,  or  prime  minister  (1799-1804),  with 
complete  control  over  administration  and  the  power  to  conduct  for- 
eign affairs.  He  set  a  significant  precedent  for  later  Nepalese  his- 
tory, which  has  seen  a  recurring  struggle  for  effective  power  between 
king  and  prime  minister.  The  main  policy  of  Damodar  Pande  was 
to  protect  the  young  king  by  keeping  his  unpredictable  father  in 
Banaras  and  to  play  off  against  each  other  the  schemes  of  the  re- 
tired king's  wives.  By  1804  this  policy  had  failed.  The  former  king 
engineered  his  return  and  took  over  as  mukhtiyar.  Damodar  Pande 
was  executed  and  replaced  by  Bhimsen  Thapa  as  chief  adminis- 
trator {kaji).  In  a  bizarre  turn  of  events  on  April  25,  1806,  Rana 
Bahadur  Shah  quarreled  in  open  court  with  his  half-brother,  Sher 
Bahadur.  The  latter  drew  his  sword  and  killed  Rana  Bahadur  Shah 
before  being  cut  down  by  a  nearby  courtier.  Taking  advantage  of 
this  opportunity,  Bhimsen  Thapa  became  prime  minister  (1806-37), 
and  the  junior  queen,  Tripurasundari,  became  regent  (1806-32). 
They  cooperated  to  liquidate  ninety-three  of  their  enemies.  The 
death  of  Girvan  Yuddha  Shah  in  1816  and  the  accession  of  his  in- 
fant son  meant  the  retention  of  the  regency. 

The  struggle  for  power  at  the  court  had  unfortunate  consequences 
for  both  foreign  affairs  and  for  internal  administration.  All  parties 
tried  to  satisfy  the  army  in  order  to  avoid  interference  in  court  af- 
fairs by  leading  commanders,  and  the  military  was  given  a  free 
hand  to  pursue  ever  larger  conquests.  As  long  as  the  Gorkhas  were 
invading  disunited  hill  states,  this  policy — or  lack  of  policy — was 
adequate.  Inevitably,  continued  aggression  led  Nepal  into  disas- 
trous collisions  with  the  Chinese  and  then  with  the  British  (see  The 
Enclosing  of  Nepal,  this  ch.).  At  home,  because  power  struggles 
centered  on  control  of  the  king,  there  was  little  progress  in  sorting 


19 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

out  procedures  for  sharing  power  or  expanding  representative  in- 
stitutions. A  consultative  body  of  nobles,  a  royal  court  called  the 
Assembly  of  Lords  (Bharadari  Sabha),  was  in  place  after  1770  and 
it  had  substantial  involvement  in  mayor  policy  issues.  The  assem- 
bly consisted  of  high  government  officials  and  leading  courtiers, 
all  heads  of  important  Gorkha  families.  In  the  intense  atmosphere 
surrounding  the  monarch,  however,  the  Assembly  of  Lords  broke 
into  factions  that  fought  for  access  to  the  prime  minister  or  regent, 
and  alliances  developed  around  patron/client  relationships. 

Five  leading  families  contended  for  power  during  this  period — 
the  Shahs,  Choutariyas,  Thapas,  Basnyats,  and  Pandes.  Working 
for  these  families  and  their  factions  were  hill  Brahmans,  who  acted 
as  religious  preceptors  or  astrologers,  and  Newars,  who  occupied 
secondary  administrative  positions.  No  one  else  in  the  country  had 
any  influence  on  the  central  government.  When  a  family  or  fac- 
tion achieved  power,  it  killed,  exiled,  or  demoted  members  of  op- 
posing alliances.  Under  these  circumstances,  there  was  little 
opportunity  for  either  public  political  life  or  coordinated  economic 
development. 

The  Enclosing  of  Nepal 

The  Gorkha  state  had  its  greatest  success  in  expanding  to  the 
east  and  west,  but  it  also  pressed  northward  toward  Tibet.  There 
was  a  longstanding  dispute  with  the  government  of  Tibet  over  trade 
issues,  notably  the  status  of  Nepalese  merchants  in  Lhasa  and  other 
settlements  and  the  increasing  debasement  of  coinage  used  in  Tibet. 
There  also  was  a  dispute  over  control  of  the  mountain  passes  into 
Tibet,  including  the  Kuti  and  Kairang  passes  north  of  Kathman- 
du.  In  the  1780s,  Nepal  demanded  that  Tibet  surrender  territory 
around  the  passes.  When  the  Tibetans  refused,  the  Nepalese  closed 
trade  routes  between  Lhasa  and  Kathmandu.  In  1788  the  Nepalese 
overran  Sikkim,  sent  a  punitive  raid  into  Tibet,  and  threatened 
Shigatse,  seat  of  the  Panchen  Lama,  the  second  highest-ranking 
lama  in  Tibet.  They  received  secret  assurances  of  an  annual  pay- 
ment from  the  Tibetan  and  local  Chinese  authorities,  but  when 
the  agreement  was  not  honored  they  invaded  again  in  1791,  pil- 
laging the  monastery  at  Shigatse  before  withdrawing  to  Nepal. 
These  acts  finally  moved  the  emperor  in  Beijing  to  send  a  huge 
army  to  Tibet.  Alarmed,  the  government  in  Kathmandu  conclud- 
ed a  trade  agreement  with  the  British  East  India  Company,  hop- 
ing for  aid  in  their  struggle.  They  were  to  be  disappointed  because 
the  British  had  no  intention  of  confronting  China,  where  there  were 
so  many  potential  trading  opportunities. 


20 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


In  1 792  the  Chinese  forces  easily  forced  the  Nepalese  out  of  Tibet 
and  pursued  them  to  within  thirty-five  kilometers  of  Kathmandu. 
The  Nepalese  were  forced  to  sign  a  humiliating  treaty  that  took 
away  their  trading  privileges  in  Tibet.  It  made  them  subordinate 
to  the  Qing  Empire  and  required  them  to  pay  tribute  to  Beijing 
every  five  years.  Thus,  Nepal  was  enclosed  on  the  north,  and  the 
British  had  again  shown  themselves  to  be  untrustworthy. 

The  kingdom  of  Garhwal  to  the  west  was  mostly  hill  country 
but  included  the  rich  vale  of  Dehra  Dun.  During  the  late  eigh- 
teenth century,  the  kingdom  had  been  devastated  by  conquerors 
as  varied  as  Afghans,  Sikhs  from  the  Punjab,  and  Marathas  from 
western  India.  The  armies  of  Nepal  were  poised  to  attack  Garhwal 
in  1790,  but  the  affair  with  Tibet  shifted  their  attention.  In  1803 
after  Garhwal  was  devastated  by  an  earthquake,  the  Nepalese  ar- 
mies moved  in,  defeated  and  killed  the  raja  of  Garhwal  in  battle, 
and  annexed  a  ruined  land.  General  Amar  Singh  Thapa  moved 
farther  west  and  during  a  three-year  campaign  defeated  or  bought 
off  local  princes  as  far  as  Kangra,  the  strongest  fort  in  the  hills. 
The  Nepalese  laid  siege  to  Kangra  until  1809,  when  Ranjit  Singh, 
ruler  of  the  Sikh  state  in  the  Punjab,  intervened  and  drove  the  Nepa- 
lese army  east  of  the  Sutlej  River.  Amar  Singh  Thapa  spent  several 
years  putting  down  rebellions  in  Garhwal  and  Kumaon,  towns  that 
submitted  to  military  occupations  but  were  never  fully  integrated 
into  Gorkha.  The  Nepalese  were  being  checked  in  the  west. 

There  had  been  little  direct  contact  with  the  lands  controlled  by 
the  British  East  India  Company  or  its  clients,  but  by  the  early  1800s 
a  confrontation  was  becoming  more  likely.  Just  as  Nepal  had  been 
expanding  toward  the  west  throughout  the  late  eighteenth  centu- 
ry, so  the  company  had  steadily  added  to  its  annexed  or  depen- 
dent territories  all  the  way  to  the  Punjab.  Amar  Singh  Thapa 
claimed  lowland  areas  of  Kumaon  and  Garhwal  as  part  of  his  con- 
quests, but  David  Ochterlony,  the  British  East  India  Company's 
representative  in  the  west,  kept  up  constant  diplomatic  resistance 
against  such  claims,  which  were  not  pressed.  In  1804  Palpa  was 
finally  annexed  by  Gorkha  and  along  with  it  came  claims  to  parts 
of  the  Butawal  area  in  the  Tarai.  As  Nepalese  troops  slowly  oc- 
cupied those  tracts,  local  landlords  complained  to  the  company  that 
their  rights  were  being  violated.  Similar  claims  to  Saran  District 
led  to  armed  clashes  between  Nepalese  troops  and  the  forces  of  lo- 
cal landlords.  During  these  proceedings,  there  was  constant  diplo- 
matic intercourse  between  the  government  of  Nepal  and  the  British 
East  India  Company  and  little  desire  on  either  side  for  open  hostil- 
ities. The  Gorkha  generals,  however,  were  quite  confident  in  their 
ability  to  wage  warfare  in  the  mountains,  and  the  company,  with 


21 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

its  far  greater  resources,  had  little  reason  to  give  in  to  this  aggres- 
sive state,  which  blocked  commerce  in  the  hills.  After  retreating 
before  a  reoccupation  by  company  troops,  Nepalese  forces  counter- 
attacked against  police  outposts  in  Butawal,  killing  eighteen  police 
officers  on  April  22,  1814.  The  fragile  state  of  Nepal  was  at  war 
with  the  British  Empire. 

At  this  stage  in  its  history,  Nepal's  single  major  unifying  force 
was  the  Gorkha-led  army  and  its  supply  system.  Prithvi  Narayan 
Shah  and  his  successors  had  done  the  best  they  could  to  borrow 
military  techniques  used  by  the  British  in  India,  including  modern 
ordnance,  command  structures,  and  even  uniforms.  An  entire  mu- 
nitions and  armaments  industry  had  been  created  in  the  hills,  based 
on  locally  mined  and  processed  raw  materials,  and  supported  by 
a  system  of  forced  labor  to  transport  commodities.  The  soldiers 
in  the  army  were  renowned  for  their  ability  to  move  relatively  fast 
with  their  supplies  and  to  fight  with  discipline  under  tough  condi- 
tions. They  also  knew  their  terrain  better  than  the  British,  who 
had  little  experience  there.  Although  the  Nepalese  army  of  an  es- 
timated 16,000  regulars  would  have  to  fight  on  a  wide  front,  it  had 
great  logistical  advantages  and  a  large  reservoir  of  labor  to  sup- 
port it. 

The  initial  British  campaign  was  an  attack  on  two  fronts.  In  the 
eastern  theater,  two  columns  totaling  about  10,000  troops  were  sup- 
posed to  coordinate  their  attacks  in  the  Makwanpur-Palpa  area, 
but  poor  leadership  and  unfamiliarity  with  hill  warfare  caused  the 
early  collapse  of  these  campaigns.  In  the  west,  another  10,000  troops 
in  two  columns  were  to  converge  on  the  forces  of  Amar  Singh  Tha- 
pa.  One  of  the  western  columns  failed  miserably,  but  the  main  force 
under  Ochterlony  outmaneuvered  the  Nepalese  army  and  defeat- 
ed General  Thapa  on  May  9,  1815,  leading  to  the  complete  loss 
of  Kumaon  by  Nepal  (see  fig.  3).  The  Nepalese  forces  had  already 
proved  their  abilities,  so  the  British  East  India  Company  took  no 
chances  the  next  year,  marshalling  35,000  men  and  more  than  100 
artillery  pieces  under  Ochterlony  for  a  thrust  toward  Makwanpur. 
Simultaneous  operations  by  the  chogyal,  or  king,  of  Sikkim  were 
driving  the  Nepalese  army  from  the  east.  Major  batdes  before  Mak- 
wanpur in  late  February  1816  resulted  in  the  final  defeat  of  Nepa- 
lese forces  by  early  March.  Diplomats  had  already  begun  preparing 
a  peace  treaty,  which  reached  Ochterlony  on  March  5. 

The  Anglo- Nepalese  War  (1814-16)  was  a  total  disaster  for 
Nepal.  According  to  the  Treaty  of  Sagauli,  signed  in  1816,  Nepal 
lost  Sikkim,  the  territories  west  of  the  Kali  River  (Kumaon  and 
Garhwal),  and  most  of  its  lands  in  the  Tarai.  The  British  East  In- 
dia Company  was  to  pay  200,000  rupees  (for  value  of  the  rupee — 


22 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


see  Glossary)  annually  to  Nepal  to  make  up  for  the  loss  of  revenues 
from  the  Tarai.  Kathmandu  was  also  forced  to  accept  a  British  resi- 
dent, which  was  extremely  disturbing  to  the  government  of  Nepal 
because  the  presence  of  a  resident  had  typically  preceded  outright 
British  conquest  throughout  India.  In  effect,  the  treaty  proved  to 
be  less  damaging,  for  the  company  soon  found  the  Tarai  lands 
difficult  to  govern  and  returned  some  of  them  to  Nepal  later  in 
1816,  simultaneously  abolishing  the  annual  payments.  The  return 
of  Tarai  territory  was  important  for  the  survival  of  Nepal  because 
the  government  relied  on  the  area  as  a  source  of  land  grants,  and 
it  is  doubtful  that  the  country  as  it  was  then  run  could  have  sur- 
vived without  this  source  of  endowments.  The  presence  of  the  resi- 
dent, too,  turned  out  to  be  less  difficult  than  first  imagined  because 
all  later  governments  in  Kathmandu  took  stringent  measures  to 
isolate  him  by  restricting  his  movements  and  keeping  a  close  eye 
on  the  people  he  met.  Nevertheless,  the  glory  days  of  conquest  were 
over,  and  Nepal  had  been  squeezed  into  the  boundaries  it  still  had 
in  the  early  1990s. 

Infighting  among  Aristocratic  Factions 

The  Gorkha  aristocracy  had  led  Nepal  into  disaster  on  the  in- 
ternational front  but  preserved  the  political  unity  of  the  country, 
which  at  the  end  of  the  Anglo-Nepalese  War  in  1816  had  been  a 
unified  nation  only  about  twenty-five  years.  The  success  of  the  cen- 
tral government  rested  in  part  on  its  ability  to  appoint  and  control 
regional  administrators,  who  also  were  high  officers  in  the  army. 
In  theory  these  officials  had  great  local  powers;  in  practice  they 
spent  little  energy  on  the  daily  affairs  of  their  subjects,  interfering 
only  when  communities  could  not  cope  with  problems  or  conflicts. 
Another  reason  for  Gorkha  success  in  uniting  the  country  was  the 
willingness  to  placate  local  leaders  by  preserving  areas  where  former 
kings  and  communal  assemblies  continued  to  rule  under  the  loose 
supervision  of  Kathmandu.  This  approach  left  substantial  parts  of 
the  country  out  of  the  control  of  regional  administrators.  Even  with- 
in the  areas  directly  administered  by  the  central  government, 
agricultural  lands  were  given  away  as  jagir  (see  Glossary)  to  the 
armed  services  and  as  birta  (see  Glossary)  to  court  favorites  and 
retired  servicemen.  The  holder  of  such  grants  in  effect  became  the 
lord  of  the  peasants  working  there,  with  little  if  any  state  interfer- 
ence. From  the  standpoint  of  the  average  cultivator,  the  govern- 
ment remained  a  distant  force,  and  the  main  authority  figure  was 
the  landlord,  who  took  part  of  the  harvest,  or  (especially  in  the 
Tarai)  the  tax  collector,  who  was  often  a  private  individual  con- 
tracted to  extort  money  or  crops  in  return  for  a  share.  For  the  leaders 


23 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


in  the  administration  and  the  army,  as  military  options  became 
limited  and  alternative  sources  of  employment  grew  very  slowly, 
career  advancement  depended  less  on  attention  to  local  conditions 
than  on  loyalty  to  factions  fighting  at  court. 

Prime  Minister  Bhimsen  Thapa,  in  collusion  with  the  queen  re- 
gent, Tripurasundari,  remained  in  power  despite  the  defeat  of 
Nepal.  He  faced  constant  opposition  at  court  from  factions  cen- 
tered around  leading  members  of  other  families,  notably  the  Pandes, 
who  decried  what  they  felt  was  his  craven  submission  to  the  Brit- 
ish. Bhimsen  Thapa  managed  to  keep  his  opposition  under  con- 
trol by  maintaining  a  large  army  and  modernizing  its  equipment 
and  by  convincing  the  suspicious  British  that  he  had  no  intention 
of  using  the  army.  During  the  minority  of  King  Rajendra  Bikram 
Shah  (reigned  1816-47),  the  prime  minister  kept  the  king  in 
isolation — he  did  not  even  have  the  freedom  to  leave  the  palace 
without  permission.  Bhimsen  Thapa  appointed  members  of  his  own 
family  to  the  highest  positions  at  court  and  in  the  army,  giving 
his  brother,  Ranbir  Singh  Thapa,  control  over  the  western  provinces 
and  his  nephew,  Mathbar  Singh  Thapa,  control  over  the  eastern 
provinces.  The  Pandes  and  other  opponents  were  frozen  out  of  pow- 
er. Aside  from  the  army  and  some  attention  to  increasing  trade, 
little  effort  could  be  expended  on  issues  of  national  development. 

The  power  balance  began  to  change  after  the  king  came  of  age 
and  Queen  Tripurasundari  died  in  1832.  The  prime  minister  lost 
his  main  support  at  a  time  when  the  young  ruler  was  coming  un- 
der greater  influence  from  the  Pande  faction  at  court.  In  1833  Bri- 
an Hodgson  became  British  resident  and  began  a  more  aggressive 
campaign  to  increase  British  influence  and  trading  opportunities; 
because  Bhimsen  Thapa  opposed  him,  Hodgson  openly  favored 
Bhimsen  Thapa' s  opponents.  In  1837  the  king  announced  his  in- 
tention to  rule  independently,  deprived  both  Bhimsen  Thapa  and 
Mathbar  Singh  of  their  military  powers,  and  promoted  some  mem- 
bers of  the  Pande  faction.  Shortly  afterward  the  youngest  son  of 
the  elder  queen  died,  and  Bhimsen  Thapa  was  arrested  on  a 
trumped  up  charge  of  poisoning  the  prince.  All  the  property  of  the 
Thapas  was  confiscated.  An  eight-month  trial  led  to  an  acquittal, 
but  the  Thapas  were  in  disarray.  When  Rana  Jang  Pande,  head 
of  his  family,  became  prime  minister,  he  reimprisoned  Bhimsen 
Thapa.  The  man  who  had  ruled  the  country  with  an  iron  hand 
committed  suicide  in  prison  in  August  1839.  This  series  of  events 
marked  the  end  of  the  longest  stable  period  in  the  early  history  of 
the  Shah  Dynasty  of  Nepal,  dominated  by  the  prime  minister  in 
the  name  of  the  king. 


25 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

The  fall  of  Bhimsen  Thapa  did  nothing  to  solve  the  factional  fight- 
ing at  court.  The  Pandes  were  dismissed,  and  Fateh  Jang  Chau- 
taria  was  appointed  prime  minister  in  November  1840.  His  ministry 
was  unable  to  control  renewed  competition  between  a  resurgent 
Thapa  coalition  and  the  disgraced  Pandes,  who  preferred  the  ab- 
dication of  the  king  in  favor  of  the  heir  apparent.  The  king  be- 
came increasingly  attentive  to  the  advice  of  his  wives.  Under  intense 
pressure  from  the  aristocracy,  the  king  decreed  in  January  1843 
that  he  would  rule  the  country  only  with  advice  and  agreement 
of  his  junior  queen,  Lakshmidevi,  and  commanded  his  subjects 
to  obey  her  even  over  his  own  son,  Surendra.  The  queen,  seeking 
support  of  her  own  son's  claims  to  the  throne  over  those  of  Suren- 
dra, invited  back  from  exile  Mathbar  Singh  Thapa,  who  was  popu- 
lar in  army  circles.  Upon  his  arrival  in  Kathmandu,  an  investigation 
of  his  uncle's  death  took  place,  and  a  number  of  his  Pande  ene- 
mies were  executed.  By  December  1843,  Mathbar  Singh  was  ap- 
pointed prime  minister,  but  he  proved  no  more  capable  of 
extinguishing  court  intrigues  than  had  his  predecessors.  Against 
the  wishes  of  the  queen,  he  supported  heir  apparent  Surendra.  Once 
Mathbar  Singh  had  alienated  the  person  who  officially  wielded  state 
authority,  his  days  were  numbered.  On  May  17,  1845,  he  was 
killed,  most  likely  on  the  queen's  orders.  The  assassin  apparently 
was  Jang  Bahadur  Kunwar,  his  nephew,  then  a  minor  but  rising 
star  in  court  politics. 

Rana  Rule 

The  death  of  Mathbar  Singh  set  the  stage  for  one  of  the  crucial 
sequences  of  events  in  modern  Nepalese  history — the  destruction 
of  the  old  aristocracy  and  the  establishment  of  a  dictatorship  of  the 
prime  minister.  These  events  provided  the  long  period  of  stability 
the  country  needed  but  at  the  cost  of  political  and  economic  de- 
velopment. 

The  Kot  Massacre 

After  three  months  of  squabbling,  a  coalition  ministry  was  formed 
in  September  1845,  again  headed  by  Fateh  Jang  Chautaria.  The 
real  power  behind  the  throne  was  the  favorite  of  Queen  Lakshmi- 
devi, Gagan  Singh,  who  controlled  seven  regiments  in  the  army 
compared  to  the  three  under  the  prime  minister.  Abhiman  Singh 
and  Jang  Bahadur  also  served  as  commanders,  each  with  three  regi- 
ments. Plots  and  counterplots  continued  until  Gagan  Singh  was 
found  murdered  during  the  night  of  September  14,  1846.  The  queen 
was  beside  herself  at  the  death  of  her  favorite,  whom  she  had  hoped 
to  use  to  elevate  her  own  son  to  the  monarchy.  She  commanded 


26 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


Abhiman  Singh  to  assemble  the  entire  military  and  administra- 
tive establishment  of  Kathmandu  immediately  at  the  courtyard  of 
the  palace  armory  {hot). 

Emotions  ran  high  among  the  assembled  bands  of  notables 
and  their  followers,  who  listened  to  the  queen  give  an  emotional 
harangue  blaming  the  Pandes  and  demanding  that  the  prime 
minister  execute  the  Pande  leader  whom  she  suspected  of  the  mur- 
der. While  Abhiman  Singh  hesitated,  fighting  broke  out  in  the 
crowd,  and  he  was  wounded.  During  the  free-for-all  that  followed, 
swords  and  knives  were  used  on  all  sides  to  dispatch  opponents. 
Through  some  scheme  that  has  never  been  explained  adequately, 
the  only  leader  with  organized  bodies  of  troops  in  the  hot  area  was 
Jang  Bahadur,  whose  troops  suppressed  the  fighting,  killing  many 
of  his  opponents  in  the  process.  When  the  struggle  subsided,  the 
courtyard  was  strewn  with  the  bodies  of  dozens  of  leading  nobles 
and  an  unknown  number  of  their  followers — the  cream  of  the  Nepa- 
lese  aristocracy.  The  Pande  and  Thapa  families  in  particular  were 
devastated  during  this  slaughter. 

Why  the  Kot  Massacre  took  place  has  never  been  established, 
although  the  queen  herself  was  obviously  at  fault  for  calling  the 
assembly  and  whipping  it  into  a  frenzy.  It  has  always  seemed  sus- 
picious that  the  king  was  notably  absent  when  the  fighting  began 
and  that  Jang  Bahadur  was  the  only  leader  who  was  ready  for  trou- 
ble. The  extent  of  the  carnage  was  apparently  unexpected.  Jang 
Bahadur  was  the  only  true  beneficiary  of  the  massacre  and  became 
the  only  military  leader  in  a  position  of  strength  in  the  capital.  The 
next  day,  he  became  prime  minister  and  immediately  launched  a 
purge  that  killed  many  of  his  aristocratic  competitors  and  drove 
6,000  people  into  exile  in  India. 

The  Dictatorship  of  Jang  Bahadur 

History  has  not  been  kind  to  Jang  Bahadur  during  the  twen- 
tieth century.  He  was  blamed  for  setting  up  a  dictatorship  that 
repressed  the  entire  nation  for  more  than  100  years  and  left  it  in 
a  primitive  economic  condition.  From  the  standpoint  of  the 
nineteenth  century  during  which  he  lived,  however,  he  was  a  pil- 
lar of  strength  who  eliminated  the  useless  factional  fighting  at  court, 
introduced  innovations  into  the  bureaucracy  and  the  judiciary,  and 
made  efforts  to  "modernize"  Nepal.  In  this  sense,  he  remains  one 
of  the  most  important  figures  in  Nepalese  history. 

Jang  Bahadur  Kunwar's  early  career  paralleled  that  of  many 
members  of  the  lower  aristocracy  in  Nepal,  despite  the  Kunwar 
family's  claims  of  descent  from  Indian  princes.  Jang  Bahadur's 
great-grandfather  was  an  important  military  leader  under  Prithvi 


27 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Narayan  Shah  in  the  eighteenth  century,  and  during  the  war  with 
China  (1791-92)  his  grandfather  was  also  a  military  leader,  who 
became  one  of  the  four  chief  administrators  (kaji)  of  the  Gorkha- 
Nepalese  state.  His  father,  Bala  Narasimha  Kunwar,  was  in  court 
the  day  Rana  Bahadur  Shah  was  murdered  and  killed  the  mur- 
derer on  the  spot.  For  this  action,  he  was  rewarded  with  the  posi- 
tion of  kaji,  which  was  made  hereditary  in  his  family.  Jang  Bahadur 
joined  the  military  service  in  1832-33  at  the  age  of  sixteen.  As 
maternal  grandson  of  Bhimsen  Thapa,  he  lost  his  job  and  his 
property  when  the  latter  fell.  After  wandering  in  northern  India 
for  several  years,  he  returned  to  Nepal  as  a  captain  in  the  artillery 
in  1840.  In  November  1841,  he  was  asked  by  the  king  to  join  his 
bodyguard,  and  in  January  1842  he  began  work  as  kaji  in  the  palace. 
When  Mathbar  Singh  returned  to  power,  Jang  Bahadur  rose  with 
him  but  Mathbar  Singh  disliked  his  ambition  and  had  him  removed 
to  a  lesser  position  on  the  staff  of  the  heir  apparent.  When  Fateh 
Jang  Chautaria  came  to  power,  Jang  Bahadur  became  fourth  in 
the  hierarchy  of  the  coalition  government  and  took  pains  to  flatter 
the  queen  while  showing  no  signs  of  ambition  to  Gagan  Singh.  A 
career  opportunist,  he  was  ready  and  waiting  when  the  time  came 
to  act  at  the  Kot  Massacre. 

Queen  Rajendralakshmi  was  not  pleased  by  the  new  prime 
minister.  She  conspired  to  eliminate  Jang  Bahadur  and  elevate  her 
son  to  the  throne.  The  Basnyat  Conspiracy,  so  called  because  many 
of  its  participants  belonged  to  one  of  the  last  leading  noble  fami- 
lies, the  Basnyats,  was  betrayed,  and  its  ringleaders  were  rounded 
up  and  executed  in  1846.  A  meeting  of  leading  notables  packed 
with  Rana  supporters  found  the  queen  guilty  of  complicity  in  the 
plot,  stripped  her  of  her  powers,  and  sent  her  into  exile  in  Banaras 
along  with  King  Rajendra.  The  king  still  had  illusions  of  grandeur 
and  began  plotting  his  return  from  India.  In  1847  Jang  Bahadur 
informed  the  troops  of  the  exiled  king's  treasonous  activities,  an- 
nounced his  dethronement,  and  elevated  Rajendra's  son  to  the 
throne  as  Surendra  Bikram  Shah  (1847-81).  Rajendra  was  cap- 
tured later  that  year  in  the  Tarai  and  brought  back  as  a  prisoner 
to  Bhadgaon,  where  he  spent  the  rest  of  his  life  under  house  arrest. 

By  1850  Jang  Bahadur  had  eliminated  or  overawed  all  of  his 
major  rivals,  installed  his  own  candidate  on  the  throne,  appointed 
his  brothers  and  cronies  to  all  the  important  posts,  and  ensured 
that  major  administrative  decisions  were  made  by  himself  as  prime 
minister.  At  this  point,  he  took  the  unprecedented  step  of  travel- 
ing to  Britain,  leaving  from  Calcutta  in  April  1850  and  returning 
to  Kathmandu  in  February  1851 .  Although  he  unsuccessfully  tried 
to  deal  directly  with  the  British  government  while  he  was  there, 


28 


Kathmandu  Valley 
Courtesy  Elsa  Martz 

the  main  result  of  the  tour  was  a  great  increase  in  goodwill  between 
the  British  and  Nepal.  Recognizing  the  extent  of  the  world  and 
the  power  of  industrialized  Europe,  he  became  convinced  that  close 
cooperation  with  the  British  was  the  best  way  to  guarantee  Nepal's 
independence.  From  then  on,  European  architecture,  fashion,  and 
furnishings  became  more  prevalent  in  Kathmandu  and  among  the 
Nepalese  aristocracy  in  general. 

As  part  of  his  modernization  plans,  Jang  Bahadur  commissioned 
leading  administrators  and  interpreters  of  texts  on  dharma  to  re- 
vise and  codify  the  legal  system  of  the  nation  into  a  single  body 
of  laws,  a  process  that  had  not  been  carried  out  since  the  seven- 
teenth century  under  Ram  Shah  of  Gorkha.  The  result  was  the 
1 , 400-page  Muluki  Ain  of  1854,  a  collection  of  administrative  proce- 
dures and  legal  frameworks  for  interpreting  civil  and  criminal  mat- 
ters, revenue  collection,  landlord  and  peasant  relations,  intercaste 
disputes,  and  marriage  and  family  law.  In  contrast  to  the  older 
system,  which  had  allowed  execution  or  bodily  mutilation  for  a  wide 
range  of  offenses,  the  Muluki  Ain  severely  limited — without 
abolishing — corporal  punishment.  For  example,  the  old  system  gave 
wide  scope  for  blood  vengeance  by  aggrieved  parties,  such  as  cuck- 
olded husbands,  but  the  Muluki  Ain  restricted  such  opportunities. 
Substitutions  included  confiscation  of  property  or  prison  terms. 


29 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Torture  to  obtain  confessions  was  abolished.  Strict  penalties  were 
set  down  for  the  abusers  of  judicial  positions  and  also  for  persons 
maliciously  accusing  judges  of  corruption.  There  were  statutes  of 
limitations  for  judicial  actions.  Caste-based  differences  in  the  degree 
of  punishments  remained  throughout,  with  higher  castes  (for  ex- 
ample, Brahmans)  exempt  from  the  corporal  punishments  and 
heavy  fines  that  lower-caste  members  incurred  for  the  same  crimes. 
This  distinction  was  in  keeping  with  the  traditional  approach  of 
the  dharma  shastras,  or  ancient  legal  treatises  (see  The  Judicial  Sys- 
tem, ch.  5). 

After  his  return  from  Europe,  Jang  Bahadur  took  steps  to  in- 
crease his  hold  over  the  country.  He  reduced  the  king  to  a  prisoner 
in  his  own  palace,  surrounded  by  agents  of  the  prime  minister  and 
restricted  and  supervised  at  all  times.  No  one  outside  the  king's 
immediate  family  could  see  the  king  without  permission  from  the 
prime  minister.  All  communications  in  the  name  of  the  king  were 
censored,  and  he  was  allowed  to  read  only  approved  literature.  In 
1856  the  king  issued  a  royal  decree  (sanad)  that  formalized  the 
dominance  of  the  Kunwar  family.  There  were  three  main  provi- 
sions in  this  crucial  document.  First,  the  prime  minister  had  com- 
plete authority  over  all  internal  administration,  including  civil, 
military,  and  judicial  affairs,  and  all  foreign  relations,  including 
the  powers  to  make  war  and  peace.  Second,  Jang  Bahadur  was 
made  great  king  (maharajah)  of  Kaski  and  Lamjung  districts,  in 
effect  serving  as  their  independent  ruler.  The  Shah  king  retained 
the  title  of  maharajadhiraja  (supreme  king)  and  the  right  to  use  the 
honorific  term  shri  five  times  with  his  name.  The  prime  minister 
could  use  shri  three  times  with  his  name.  In  this  way,  Jang  Ba- 
hadur stopped  short  of  taking  the  throne  outright  but  elevated  his 
family  to  a  level  second  only  to  the  royal  house,  which  remained 
as  a  symbol  of  the  nation.  Finally,  provisions  were  established  for 
hereditary  succession  to  the  post  of  prime  minister.  Brothers  and 
then  sons  would  inherit  the  position  in  order  of  seniority.  These 
provisions  meant  that  the  dictatorship  of  the  Kunwar  family,  a  vir- 
tual monarchy  within  the  monarchy,  would  be  passed  down  in  the 
family  for  generations,  with  no  legal  mechanism  for  changing  the 
government.  Later,  Jang  Bahadur  established  official  Rolls  of  Suc- 
cession that  ranked  all  his  descendants  in  relation  to  their  heredi- 
tary rights  to  the  office  of  prime  minister. 

Jang  Bahadur  sealed  the  arrangement  with  the  Shah  Dynasty 
by  arranging  marriages  between  his  heirs  and  the  royal  house.  In 
1854  his  eldest  son,  Jagat  Jang  (aged  eight),  married  the  eldest 
daughter  (aged  six)  of  Surendra  Bikram  Shah.  In  1855  his  second 
son  married  the  second  daughter  of  the  king.  The  ultimate  test  was 


30 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


passed  in  1857,  when  heir  apparent  Trilokya  Bir  Bikram  married 
two  daughters  of  Jang  Bahadur.  A  son  of  this  union  ascended  to 
the  throne  in  1881. 

Nepal  began  to  experience  some  successes  in  international  af- 
fairs during  the  tenure  of  Jang  Bahadur.  To  the  north,  relations 
with  Tibet  had  been  mediated  through  China  since  Nepal's  defeat 
in  1792,  and  during  the  early  nineteenth  century  embassies  had 
to  make  the  arduous  journey  to  Beijing  every  five  years  with  local 
products  as  tribute  to  the  Qing  emperor.  By  1854,  however,  Chi- 
na was  in  decline  and  had  fallen  into  a  protracted  period  of  distur- 
bances, including  the  Taiping  Rebellion  (1851-64),  revolts  by 
Muslim  ethnic  groups  north  of  Tibet,  and  war  with  European  pow- 
ers. The  Nepalese  mission  to  Beijing  in  1852,  just  after  the  death 
of  the  sixth  Panchen  Lama,  was  allegedly  mistreated  in  Tibet.  Be- 
cause of  this  slight,  the  Nepalese  government  sent  a  protest  letter 
to  Beijing  and  Lhasa  outlining  several  grievances,  including  ex- 
cessive customs  duties  on  Nepalese  trade.  In  1855  Nepalese  troops 
overran  the  Kuti  and  Kairang  areas.  Hostilities  lasted  for  about 
a  year,  with  successes  and  failures  on  both  sides,  until  a  treaty 
negotiated  by  the  Chinese  resident  and  ratified  in  March  1856  gave 
Nepalese  merchants  duty-free  trade  privileges,  forced  Tibet  to  pay 
an  annual  tribute  of  10,000  rupees  to  Nepal,  and  allowed  a  Nepa- 
lese resident  in  Lhasa.  In  return,  Nepal  gave  up  territorial  gains 
and  agreed  that  it,  as  well  as  Tibet,  would  remain  a  tributary  state 
subject  to  China.  As  the  Qing  Empire  disintegrated  later  in  the 
century,  this  tributary  status  was  allowed  to  lapse,  and  even  Tibet 
began  to  shake  off  its  subordination. 

The  outbreak  of  disorder  to  the  south  also  allowed  the  Nepalese 
army  to  take  a  more  active  role  in  international  affairs.  Beginning 
in  May  1857,  a  series  of  related  uprisings  throughout  north  India — 
known  as  the  Sepoy  Rebellion — threatened  to  topple  the  power  of 
the  British  East  India  Company.  The  uprisings  began  with  wide- 
spread mutinies  in  the  company's  army  and  spread  to  include 
peasant  revolts  and  alliances  of  the  old  Mughal  aristocracy  against 
the  foreigners.  Most  of  the  major  cities  west  of  Bengal  fell  into  reb- 
el hands,  and  the  aged  Mughal  emperor  was  proclaimed  the  lead- 
er of  a  national  revolution.  Initially  there  was  some  fear  in  British 
circles  that  Nepal  would  side  with  the  rebels  and  turn  the  tide 
irrevocably  against  the  British  East  India  Company,  but  Jang 
Bahadur  proved  to  be  a  loyal  and  reliable  ally.  At  that  point, 
immediately  following  hostilities  in  Tibet,  the  army  of  Nepal  had 
grown  to  around  25,000  troops.  Jang  Bahadur  sent  several  columns 
ahead  and  then  marched  with  9,000  troops  into  northern  India  in 
December  1857.  Heading  an  army  of  15,000  troops,  he  fought 


31 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

several  hard  battles  and  aided  the  British  in  their  campaigns  around 
Gorakhpur  and  Lucknow.  The  prime  minister  returned  to  Nepal 
triumphantly  in  March  1858  and  continued  to  aid  the  British  in 
rooting  out  1 'rebels"  who  had  been  dislocated  during  the  chaos 
and  sought  refuge  in  the  Tarai. 

After  the  Sepoy  Rebellion  had  been  crushed  and  Britain  had 
abolished  the  British  East  India  Company  and  taken  direct  con- 
trol of  India  in  1858,  Nepal  received  a  reward  for  its  loyalty. 
Western  sections  of  the  Tarai  that  had  been  ceded  through  the 
Treaty  of  Sagauli  in  1816  were  returned.  Henceforth,  the  British 
were  firm  supporters  of  Jang  Bahadur's  government,  and  Nepal 
later  became  an  important  source  of  military  recruits  for  the  British 
army  (see  From  the  Anglo-Nepalese  War  to  World  War  II,  ch.  5). 

In  1858  King  Surendra  bestowed  upon  Jang  Bahadur  Kunwar 
the  honorific  title  of  Rana,  an  old  title  denoting  martial  glory  used 
by  Rajput  princes  in  northern  India.  He  then  became  Jang  Ba- 
hadur Rana,  and  the  later  prime  ministers  descended  from  his 
family  added  his  name  to  their  own  in  honor  of  his  accomplish- 
ments. Thus  they  all  became  "Jang  Bahadur  Ranas,"  and  their 
line  became  known  as  the  house  of  the  Ranas.  Jang  Bahadur  re- 
mained prime  minister  until  1877.  suppressing  conspiracies  and 
local  revolts  and  enjoying  the  fruits  of  his  early  successes.  He  ex- 
ercised almost  unlimited  power  over  internal  affairs,  taking  for  his 
own  use  whatever  funds  were  available  in  the  treasury.  He  lived 
in  the  high  style  of  an  Anglicized  native  prince  in  the  British  Raj, 
although  unlike  the  Indian  princes  he  was  the  ruler  of  a  truly  in- 
dependent nation,  an  ally  rather  than  a  subordinate  of  the  British. 
He  died  as  he  had  lived,  a  man  of  action,  during  a  hunting  expe- 
dition in  the  Tarai. 

The  Rana  Oligarchy 

After  the  death  of  Jang  Bahadur,  his  eldest  surviving  brother, 
Ranoddip  Singh,  became  prime  minister  (1877-85).  Because  he 
was  childless,  his  term  in  office  was  full  of  plots  by  Jang  Bahadur's 
sons  and  nephews  over  succession.  These  plots  were  complicated 
by  the  death  of  King  Surendra  Bikram  Shah  in  1881  and  the  royal 
accession  of  Prithvi  Bir  Bikram  Shah  (reigned  1881-1911)  at  the 
age  of  six.  Finally,  the  doddering  Ranoddip  Singh  was  assassinat- 
ed, and  Bir  Shamsher,  son  of  Jang  Bahadur's  youngest  and  closest 
brother,  became  prime  minister  (1885-1901).  Bir  Shamsher  im- 
mediately launched  a  purge  of  his  opponents.  While  in  power,  he 
brought  piped  water  to  the  Kathmandu  Valley,  built  a  suspension 
bridge  at  Kulekhani,  and  set  up  a  palace  school  where  English  was 
taught.  His  successor  for  three  months  was  the  progressive  Dev 


32 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


Shamsher,  who  emancipated  all  female  slaves,  established  a  net- 
work of  Nepali-language  schools  called  Bhasa  Pathsalas,  and  started 
the  first  Nepali-language  newspaper,  Gorkhapatra  (Gorkha  News- 
letter). A  coalition  of  his  brothers,  upset  with  his  radical  tenden- 
cies, forced  Dev  Shamsher' s  resignation  and  retirement  to  India. 

Chandra  Shamsher  took  over  (1901-29)  and  attempted  to  resolve 
the  unending  family  feuds  over  succession  rights  by  amending  the 
Rolls  of  Succession  that  had  originally  been  set  up  by  Jang  Ba- 
hadur. The  modified  Rolls  of  Succession  contained  three  sched- 
ules: "A"  class  Ranas  were  the  direct,  legitimate  offspring  of  Ranas, 
who  could  dine  with  any  high-caste  Chhetri  family;  "B"  class  Ranas 
usually  were  born  of  second  wives  and  could  take  part  in  all  forms 
of  social  interaction  with  high-caste  Chhetris  except  the  sharing 
of  boiled  rice;  and  "C"  class  Ranas  were  the  offspring  of  wives 
and  concubines  of  lower  status  with  whom  interdining  was  forbid- 
den. The  "A"  class  Ranas  could  fill  the  highest  positions  in  the 
army  or  civil  administration,  but  "B"  or  "C"  class  Ranas  at  that 
time  could  only  reach  the  level  of  colonels  in  the  army  aijid  could 
never  become  prime  ministers.  At  the  time,  this  plan  seemed  ade- 
quate for  finalizing  everyone's  position  in  the  state  and  stopping 
conspiracy.  In  the  long  run,  however,  the  rigid  Rolls  of  Succes- 
sion alienated  large  numbers  of  aristocrats  who  saw  little  room  for 
advancement  in  the  Rana  system,  lost  interest  in  preserving  it,  and 
even  began  opposing  it.  The  alienation  increased  when  Juddha 
Shamsher  (in  power  1932-45)  removed  all  "C"  class  Ranas,  in- 
cluding some  of  his  own  sons,  from  the  swollen  Rolls  of  Succes- 
sion and  appointed  many  of  them  to  administrative  positions  in 
districts  far  from  the  capital.  In  this  way,  the  Rana  dictatorship 
slowly  created  opposition  within  its  own  ranks. 

Prithvi  Narayan  Shah  and  his  successors  had  used  the  older  ad- 
ministrative systems  of  Gorkha  and  the  kingdoms  of  the  Kathmandu 
Valley  to  run  the  central  government  of  a  united  Nepal  that  was 
in  theory  accountable  to  the  king.  Jang  Bahadur  had  inherited  con- 
trol over  these  systems  and  proceeded  to  undercut  their  power  by 
packing  them  with  his  own  officials  or  by  establishing  parallel  offices 
that  duplicated  functions  and,  in  effect,  took  over  the  work  of  older 
offices.  There  had  always  been  an  Assembly  of  Lords  filled  by  lead- 
ing aristocrats,  military  leaders,  administrators,  or  head  priests. 
In  the  past,  this  assembly  had  met  periodically  to  advise  the  king 
and  make  important  decisions.  Under  Jang  Bahadur  and  his  suc- 
cessors, it  was  full  of  Ranas  and  their  henchmen.  Aside  from  the 
codification  of  the  Muluki  Ain,  the  assembly  functioned  as  a  rub- 
ber stamp  for  Rana  decisions.  Accounting  procedures  and  records 
had  been  kept  by  an  Office  of  Accounts,  a  State  Treasury,  and 


33 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

a  Land  Revenue  Office.  Under  Jang  Bahadur,  separate  offices 
staffed  by  his  appointees  kept  records  of  military  grants,  religious 
endowments,  land  revenue,  treasury  correspondence,  and  military 
correspondence — in  other  words,  the  most  important  components 
of  the  older  royal  administration.  Special  offices  for  the  investiga- 
tion of  corruption  and  for  police  matters  (staffed  by  army  person- 
nel) formed  the  core  of  a  police  state.  There  were  few  avenues  open 
for  government  personnel  to  work  outside  of  a  network  dominated 
by  Rana  interests;  those  who  did  could  be  detected  and  were  either 
punished  or  coopted  into  the  Rana  system.  The  government  of  late 
nineteenth-century  Nepal  thus  stripped  the  monarchy  of  any  real 
power  and  maintained  a  late  medieval  administrative  framework. 

Because  their  power  was  ultimately  illegitimate,  resting  on  the 
abdication  of  responsibilities  by  the  king  and  his  virtual  incarcera- 
tion, the  Ranas  became  expert  at  preventing  any  kind  of  challenge. 
In  the  process,  they  succeeded  in  isolating  Nepal  from  many  of 
the  changes  happening  throughout  the  world  and  even  in  nearby 
India. 

The  Ranas  were  not  totally  inactive  during  the  period  of  dic- 
tatorship, however.  On  the  legal  front,  suttee,  or  the  suicide  of  a 
wife  by  throwing  herself  onto  her  husband's  funeral  pyre,  was 
abolished  in  1920,  and  slavery  was  abolished  in  1929.  Tri-Chandra 
College  was  established  in  1918,  and  by  the  1940s  there  were  several 
high  schools  in  the  country  and  two  Nepali  literary  magazines  (see 
Education,  ch.  2).  The  Ranas  also  attended  to  economic  develop- 
ment by  founding  the  Pharping  Hydroelectric  Company  in  1911 
and  establishing  the  Nepal  Industrial  Board,  a  jute  mill,  a  match 
factory,  two  cotton  mills,  the  Nepal  Plywood  and  Bobbin  Compa- 
ny, and  several  rice  mills  during  the  1930s  (see  Industry,  ch.  3). 
As  for  public  health,  the  first  tuberculosis  clinic  was  set  up  in  1934. 
In  view  of  the  population  of  approximately  6  million  in  the  1930s, 
these  accomplishments  seem  pitiful.  Almost  all  Nepalese  remained 
illiterate  and  uninformed  about  any  part  of  the  world  outside  their 
villages  or,  at  best,  their  valleys.  Public  health  and  economic 
infrastructure  had  not  advanced  past  medieval  levels  in  most  areas, 
and  doing  anything  about  it  was  proving  impossible.  Under  Bhim 
Shamsher  (reigned  1929-32),  fifty  people  were  arrested  and  fined 
for  setting  up  a  public  library. 

Because  the  Ranas  relied  on  the  goodwill  of  the  army  and  the 
British  government  to  support  their  dictatorship,  the  army  served 
as  a  legitimate — and  perhaps  the  most  viable — means  for  Nepa- 
lese citizens  to  achieve  upward  mobility  or  to  see  the  world.  Dur- 
ing World  War  1(1914-18),  the  government  of  Nepal  loaned  more 
than  16,000  troops  to  the  British,  and  26,000  Nepalese  citizens  who 


34 


The  gilded  copper  Sun 
Dhoka  gate,  built  in  1753, 
in  Durbar  Square, 
at  the  medieval  city 
of  Bhaktapur. 
The  gate,  which  is  the 
entrance  to  the  main 
courtyard  palace  and  the 
Taleju  Bhavani  Temple,  is 
flanked  by  a  small  shrine 
of  the  Rana  period. 


Hanuman  Dhoka  Palace, 
the  old  royal  palace, 
Kathmandu 
Courtesy  Harvey  Follender 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

were  part  of  British  Indian  regiments  fought  in  France  and  the  Mid- 
dle East.  In  gratitude  the  British  government  in  1919  bestowed  on 
Nepal  an  annual  payment  of  1  million  Indian  rupees  (US$476,000) 
in  perpetuity  and  in  1920  transformed  the  British  resident  in  Kath- 
mandu  into  an  envoy.  A  Treaty  of  Perpetual  Peace  and  Friend- 
ship signed  in  1923  confirmed  the  independence  of  Nepal  and  its 
special  relationship  with  British  India.  As  long  as  British  rule  re- 
mained stable  in  India  and  the  army  offered  a  safety  valve  to  release 
social  pressures  in  Nepal,  the  Ranas  were  able  to  use  their  total 
control  over  internal  affairs  to  isolate  their  country,  a  situation  that 
could  not  long  endure. 

The  Growth  of  Political  Parties 

The  earliest  opposition  to  the  Rana  regime  that  departed  from 
the  conspiratorial  politics  of  the  palace  began  during  the  rule  of 
Chandra  Shamsher,  a  conservative  who  was  not  interested  in 
modern  political  participation,  even  though  large  numbers  of  Nepa- 
lese  soldiers  had  been  exposed  to  new  ideas  during  and  after  World 
War  I.  Just  after  the  war,  Thakur  Chandan  Singh,  a  retired  army 
officer,  started  two  weekly  newspapers  in  Kumaon,  Tarun  Gorkha 
(Young  Gorkha)  and  Gorkha  Samsar  (Gorkha  World) .  At  the  same 
time,  Devi  Prasad  Sapkota,  a  former  officer  in  the  Foreign  Depart- 
ment, founded  the  weekly  Gorkhali  in  Banaras.  These  journals  were 
forums  where  Nepalese  exiles  could  criticize  the  backwardness  and 
repression  of  the  Rana  regime.  During  the  1930s,  a  debating  soci- 
ety called  Nagrik  Adhikar  Samiti  (Citizen's  Rights  Committee)  was 
founded  in  Kathmandu  to  discuss  religious  issues,  but  its  discus- 
sions veered  into  politics.  When  one  of  its  meetings  featured  a  po- 
litical speech  denouncing  the  Rana  regime,  the  government  banned 
the  debating  society.  By  1935  the  first  Nepalese  political  party,  the 
Praja  Parishad  (People's  Council),  began  among  Nepalese  exiles 
and  set  up  cells  within  the  country.  In  Bihar  it  published  a  period- 
ical, Janata  (The  People),  advocating  a  multicaste,  democratic 
government  and  the  overthrow  of  the  Ranas.  The  Rana  police 
managed  to  infiltrate  the  organization  and  arrested  500  persons 
in  Kathmandu.  Four  leaders  were  executed  (they  continued  to  be 
commemorated  as  martyrs  in  1991),  and  others  received  long  pris- 
on terms,  but  the  survivors  escaped  to  India  to  carry  on  their  polit- 
ical agitation. 

In  India  the  British  were  having  their  own  problems  with  an  in- 
dependence movement  headed  by  the  Indian  National  Congress, 
led  by  Mohandas  K.  Gandhi  and  Jawaharlal  Nehru.  Under  Gan- 
dhi's leadership,  the  Indian  National  Congress  pursued  nonviolent 
campaigns  of  civil  disobedience  that  mobilized  millions,  including 


36 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


members  of  all  castes  and  women,  into  agitations  for  reform  and 
the  end  of  foreign  rule.  Simultaneously,  there  was  a  growth  in  ter- 
rorism and  police  repression  that  seriously  destabilized  all  of  South 
Asia.  Lacking  a  British  promise  of  independence,  the  Indian  Na- 
tional Congress  opposed  participation  in  World  War  II  (1939-45), 
but  even  with  many  of  its  leaders  in  jail  during  the  war  there  was 
continuing  public  disorder  and  police  violence.  After  the  war  end- 
ed, the  British  realized  that  their  position  in  South  Asia  had  be- 
come untenable,  and  they  prepared  to  leave.  With  China  in  the 
middle  of  a  communist  revolution,  their  old  allies  the  British  prepar- 
ing to  leave  India,  and  thousands  of  soldiers  returning  from  abroad, 
the  Rana  government  could  no  longer  avoid  making  radical  changes 
in  Nepal. 

Many  of  the  Nepalese  exiles  in  India  had  worked  closely  with 
the  Indian  National  Congress  during  its  struggles  with  the  Brit- 
ish, realizing  that  only  after  the  elimination  of  its  colonial  support 
would  the  Rana  regime  fall.  In  Banaras  in  October  1946,  a  group 
of  middle-class  Nepalese  exiles  formed  the  All-India  Nepali  Na- 
tional Congress  (Akhil  Bharatiya  Nepali  Rashtriya  Congress). 
Many  of  its  members  were  students  who  had  agitated  and  subse- 
quently had  been  jailed  during  movements  in  India.  During  its 
council  in  Calcutta  in  January  1947,  the  new  organization  dropped 
its  "All-India"  prefix  and  merged  with  two  other  groups,  the  Nepali 
Sangh  (Nepalese  Society)  of  Banaras  and  the  Gorkha  Congress  of 
Calcutta,  which  had  closer  connections  with  lower-class  Ranas.  The 
Nepali  National  Congress  (Nepali  Rashtriya  Congress)  was  offi- 
cially dedicated  to  the  ouster  of  the  Rana  dictatorship  by  peaceful 
means  and  to  the  establishment  of  democratic  socialism.  One  of 
its  first  mass  actions  was  participation  in  a  labor  strike  in  the  jute 
mills  of  Biratnagar  in  the  Tarai;  the  strike  disrupted  traffic  at  the 
Indian  railhead  in  Jogbani  and  required  army  intervention. 
Although  this  action  garnered  much  publicity  for  the  party  and 
brought  thousands  of  protesters  into  the  streets  even  in  Kathman- 
du,  the  strike  was  suppressed,  and  its  leaders,  including  Bishwesh- 
war  Prasad  (B.P.)  Koirala,  were  imprisoned. 

B.P.  Koirala  (1914-82)  became  the  leader  most  closely  identi- 
fied with  the  Nepali  National  Congress.  His  father,  a  Brahman 
businessman,  spent  a  good  deal  of  time  in  Bihar  and  Bengal.  He 
had  become  involved  with  political  activists  and  progressive  ideas, 
especially  those  of  Gandhi,  and  participated  in  anti-Rana  agita- 
tions including  the  publication  of  Gorkhali  at  Banaras.  B.P.  Koirala 
thus  grew  up  in  an  atmosphere  oriented  toward  radical  Gandhian 
action.  By  1937  he  was  studying  law  in  Calcutta  and  had  started 
working  for  the  Congress  Socialist  Party.  He  was  arrested  in  India 


37 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

a  number  of  times  and  spent  1942  to  1945  in  jail  after  instigating 
Nepalese  soldiers  to  rebel  against  the  government.  His  views  dur- 
ing his  early  years,  influenced  by  Gandhi,  tended  toward  radical 
democratic  decentralization  and  included  cottage  industries  instead 
of  large  factories  as  models  for  economic  development.  His  wing 
of  the  Nepali  National  Congress  stressed  nonviolent  confrontation 
and  general  strikes,  but  he  was  not  opposed  to  force  should  all  other 
paths  prove  ineffective.  He  advocated  a  constitutional  monarchy 
as  a  transitional  political  form  for  Nepal. 

The  strong-willed,  conservative  Juddha  Shamsher  resigned  as 
prime  minister  in  November  1945,  passing  on  his  job  to  Padma 
Shamsher,  who  announced  that  he  was  a  servant  of  the  nation  who 
would  liberalize  the  Rana  regime.  Padma  Shamsher' s  repression 
of  the  Biratnagar  strike,  however,  showed  that  he  was  not  interested 
in  the  kind  of  political  and  labor  reforms  advocated  by  the  Con- 
gress. In  the  aftermath  of  the  repression,  on  May  16,  1947,  he 
delivered  a  speech  outlining  important  reforms,  including  the  es- 
tablishment of  an  independent  judiciary,  elections  for  municipali- 
ty and  district  boards,  expansion  of  education,  publication  of  the 
national  budget,  and  the  formation  of  a  special  committee  to  con- 
sider plans  for  further  liberalization.  The  Nepali  National  Con- 
gress called  off  its  continuing  agitations,  and  B.P.  Koirala  and  other 
top  leaders  were  released  from  detention  in  August.  In  January 
1948,  the  prime  minister  announced  the  first  constitution  of  Nepal, 
which  set  up  a  bicameral  Parliament,  a  separate  High  Court,  and 
an  executive  power  vested  in  the  prime  minister  who  was  to  be 
assisted  by  a  five-member  Council  of  Ministers.  Although  this  con- 
stitution reserved  almost  all  powers  for  the  executive  branch  and 
kept  the  same  rules  of  succession  as  before  for  both  king  and  prime 
minister,  the  Nepali  National  Congress  agreed  to  function  within 
its  framework.  Beset  by  conflicting  forces  from  all  sides,  however, 
Padma  Shamsher  resigned  his  position  in  early  1948. 

The  Return  of  the  King 

When  the  arch-conservative  Mohan  Shamsher  took  over  as  prime 
minister  in  1948,  he  quickly  outlawed  the  Nepali  National  Con- 
gress and  showed  no  interest  in  implementing  the  new  constitu- 
tion that  was  scheduled  to  take  effect  in  April.  He  rejected  the  more 
progressive  wing  among  the  Rana  aristocracy,  leading  several  well- 
known  opponents  to  found  the  Nepal  Democratic  Congress  (Nepal 
Prajatantrik  Congress)  in  Calcutta  in  August  1948.  This  group  was 
well  funded  and  publicly  advocated  the  overthrow  of  the  Ranas 
by  any  means,  including  armed  insurrection.  It  tried  to  foment 
army  coups  in  January  1949  and  January  1950  but  failed.  When 


38 


Ruins  of  the  Thyangboche  Monastery,  Khumbu, 
destroyed  by  fire  in  January  1989 
Courtesy  Janet  MacDonald 

the  Rana  government  arrested  B.P.  Koirala  and  other  organizers 
in  October  1948  and  subjected  regime  opponents  to  harsh  condi- 
tions and  even  torture  in  jail,  its  democratic  opponents  turned 
against  it  again.  Even  the  release  of  B.P.  Koirala  in  June  at  the 
insistence  of  Indian  political  leaders  did  little  to  help  the  negative 
political  climate.  When  Mohan  Shamsher  convened  Parliament  in 
September  1950,  supposedly  in  keeping  with  the  constitution,  it 
was  so  full  of  Rana  appointees  that  no  one  in  the  opposition  took 
the  legislature  seriously.  The  Nepali  National  Congress  absorbed 
the  Nepal  Democratic  Congress  in  March  1950  and  became  the 
Nepali  Congress  Party,  and  it  formally  decided  to  wage  an  armed 
struggle  against  the  Rana  regime.  On  November  6,  King  Trib- 
huvan  Bir  Bikram  Shah,  who  had  long  been  making  anti-Rana 
statements,  escaped  from  the  palace  and  sought  asylum  in  the  In- 
dian embassy  in  Kathmandu.  Armed  attacks  by  300  members  of 
the  Nepali  Congress  Party's  Liberation  Army  (Mukti  Sena)  be- 
gan in  the  Tarai  on  November  11,  initiating  revolution  in  Nepal. 

Mohan  Shamsher  found  himself  in  a  very  unfavorable  interna- 
tional climate.  The  British  had  left  India  in  1947,  and  in  their  place 
was  a  democratic  government  dominated  by  the  Indian  National 
Congress,  led  by  Jawaharlal  Nehru.  The  government  of  India  had 


39 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

no  interest  in  preserving  the  autocratic  rule  of  native  princes  and 
had  forcibly  taken  over  the  lands  of  the  few  princes  who  had  op- 
posed union  with  the  new  India.  Furthermore,  members  of  the  un- 
derground Nepalese  opposition  had  helped  their  Indian  colleagues 
during  the  struggle  against  the  British.  B.P.  Koirala  had  met  with 
Nehru  and  with  Gandhi  as  well.  Changes  in  the  north  added  an 
element  of  power  politics  to  the  situation.  The  Chinese  revolution 
had  ended  in  1949  with  the  victory  of  the  Chinese  Communist 
Party,  ending  100  years  of  weakness.  Tibet  again  came  under  Chi- 
na's control  in  1950.  India,  faced  with  an  expansive  military  pow- 
er operating  under  a  radically  different  political  philosophy  on  its 
long  northern  borders,  could  not  afford  a  destabilized  Nepal.  Thus, 
the  king  was  assured  of  asylum  in  the  Indian  embassy,  and  the 
Liberation  Army  of  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  was  able  to  oper- 
ate freely  from  bases  along  the  Indian  border  with  Nepal. 

The  revolution  consisted  of  scattered  fighting,  mosdy  in  the  Tarai, 
and  growing  demonstrations  in  the  towns  of  the  hills.  The  initial 
strategy  of  the  insurgents  was  to  capture  the  rich  Tarai  area,  which 
produced  much  of  the  country's  grain.  Rebels  were  able  to  cap- 
ture several  towns  there  but  never  were  able  to  hold  them  against 
counterattacks  by  the  army.  Armed  struggles  did  not  develop  in 
the  Kathmandu  Valley,  but  demonstrations  of  up  to  50,000  peo- 
ple demanding  the  return  of  the  king  occurred  in  late  November. 
Meanwhile,  insurgents  were  infiltrating  hill  areas  in  the  west  and 
the  east,  where  army  operations  were  more  difficult.  After  several 
weeks  of  growing  demonstrations  and  dissension  in  the  ranks  of 
local  commanders,  Palpa  fell  from  government  control  on  Janu- 
ary 6,  1951.  Rebels  took  over  in  Pokhara  for  a  day  on  January 
9-10  and  occupied  Gorkha  for  part  of  January  10.  Sporadic  fight- 
ing in  western  Nepal  led  to  the  fall  of  many  towns  in  mid-January. 
By  this  time,  some  "C"  class  Rana  officers  had  resigned  their  com- 
missions in  protest,  and  troops  were  beginning  to  surrender  to  the 
rebels. 

Negotiations  between  the  Indian  government  and  the  Ranas  had 
begun  on  December  24,  1950,  in  Delhi,  finally  leading  to  a  procla- 
mation on  January  8,  1951,  by  Mohan  Shamsher,  who  promised 
restoration  of  the  king,  amnesty  for  all  political  prisoners,  and  elec- 
tions based  on  adult  suffrage  no  later  than  1952.  The  king  formal- 
ly agreed  two  days  later,  and  a  cease-fire  went  into  effect  on  January 
16.  Further  negotiations  among  the  Ranas,  the  king,  and  the  Nepali 
Congress  Party  produced  an  interim  ministry  headed  by  Mohan 
Shamsher  with  five  Ranas  and  five  Nepali  Congress  Party  mem- 
bers. The  king  returned  to  Kathmandu,  and  the  new  ministry  was 
sworn  in  during  February  1951. 


40 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


The  coalition  ministry  was  a  mixture  of  ultra-conservatives  who 
believed  that  they  were  born  to  rule  and  radical  reformers  who  had 
almost  no  administrative  experience.  It  was  able  to  enact  a  new 
interim  constitution  in  March  1951,  set  up  a  separate  judicial 
branch,  transfer  all  executive  powers  back  to  the  king  (including 
supreme  command  of  the  armed  forces  and  power  to  appoint 
government  officials  and  manage  finances),  call  for  a  welfare  state, 
set  forth  a  Bill  of  Rights,  and  start  procedures  for  the  formation 
of  local-level  assemblies,  or  panchayat  (see  Glossary).  The  ministry 
started  plans  to  abolish  birta  lands  used  by  Ranas  to  reward  their 
own  family  members,  eliminated  bonded  labor,  and  established 
a  women's  college  and  a  radio  station.  The  ministry  was  beset  by 
law  and  order  problems  caused  by  loose  bands  of  Liberation  Army 
fighters  who  had  refused  to  stop  fighting,  bands  of  robbers  who 
were  victimizing  the  Tarai,  and  ultra-conservative  conspiracies  that 
instigated  a  mob  attack  on  the  house  of  B.P.  Koirala,  who  had  be- 
come the  minister  of  home  affairs  in  April.  The  final  embarrass- 
ment occurred  when  police  fired  on  a  student  demonstration  and 
killed  a  student.  The  entire  bloc  of  Nepali  Congress  Party  ministers 
resigned  in  November,  which  allowed  the  king  to  appoint  a  new 
government  for  the  first  time  since  the  nineteenth  century.  The 
king  used  the  opportunity  to  exclude  for  good  the  conservative  Rana 
power  bloc.  A  royal  proclamation  on  November  16,  1951,  estab- 
lished a  new  government  led  by  Matrika  Prasad  (M.P.)  Koirala, 
the  half-brother  of  B.P.  Koirala,  who  had  run  the  Nepali  Congress 
Party  during  the  revolutionary  struggle. 

The  Democratic  Experiment 

In  the  early  1950s,  a  political  style  appeared  that  characterized 
much  of  the  era  after  the  overthrow  of  the  Ranas.  On  one  side  stood 
the  king,  who  controlled  the  most  powerful  force  in  the  nation — 
the  army — and  found  it  an  increasingly  useful  tool  with  which  to 
wield  his  prestige  and  constitutional  authority.  On  the  other  side 
stood  the  political  parties.  First  there  was  the  Nepali  Congress  Party, 
which  claimed  to  stand  for  the  democratic  will  of  the  people.  Then 
there  were  a  multitude  of  breakaway  factions  or  other  small  par- 
ties representing  a  wide  range  of  interests.  The  Communist  Party 
of  Nepal,  for  example,  was  established  in  Calcutta  in  1949  but  had 
refused  to  take  part  in  the  armed  struggle  and  condemned  it  as 
a  "bourgeois"  revolution;  despite  its  own  difficulties  with  factional 
disputes,  this  party  was  destined  to  grow  in  a  country  riddled  with 
problems.  In  the  Kathmandu  Valley,  other  leaders  who  had  been 
locked  out  of  high  positions  in  the  first  coalition  government  formed 
a  revitalized  Praja  Parishad.  Opponents  of  the  "antidemocratic" 


41 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

character  of  the  Nepali  Congress  leadership  and  their  pro-India 
stance,  which  they  claimed  went  against  the  interests  of  Nepal,  broke 
away  to  form  a  revitalized  Nepali  National  Congress.  In  1951  a 
united  front  of  the  communists  and  the  Praja  Parishad  formed  to 
oppose  the  Nepali  Congress  ministers.  The  political  themes  in  the 
early  1950s — class,  opposition  to  authoritarian  trends  within  party 
leadership,  and  nationalistic  propaganda,  combined  with  agitational 
united  front  tactics — have  remained  standard  features  of  party  po- 
litics in  Nepal.  As  the  various  political  parties  slashed  at  each  other 
and  the  king  maneuvered  for  greater  power,  the  country  began 
experimenting  with  a  limping  democracy. 

Nepal  faced  an  enormous  task.  When  the  Ranas  fell,  only  2  per- 
cent of  the  adult  population  was  literate,  the  infant  mortality  rate 
was  more  than  60  percent,  and  average  life  expectancy  was  thirty- 
five  years.  Less  than  1  percent  of  the  population  was  engaged  in 
modern  industrial  occupations,  and  85  percent  of  employment  and 
income  came  from  agriculture,  mostly  performed  by  tenants  us- 
ing archaic  methods  and  working  under  uncertain  contracts.  There 
were  only  approximately  100  kilometers  of  railroad  tracks  and  a 
few  kilometers  of  paved  roads  in  the  entire  nation.  Telephones, 
electricity,  and  postal  services  combined  served  only  1  percent  of 
the  population  and  only  in  certain  pockets.  Nepalese  currency  cir- 
culated only  in  and  around  the  Kathmandu  Valley.  Government 
expenditures  went  almost  entirely  for  salaries  and  benefits  for  army, 
police,  and  civil  servants,  with  any  savings  going  to  the  prime 
minister.  Health  and  education  received  less  than  1  percent  of  the 
government's  expenditures.  The  nation  still  contained  autonomous 
principalities  (rajyd)  based  on  deals  with  former  local  kings,  and 
landlords  acted  as  small  dictators  on  their  own  lands.  Caste,  eth- 
nic, and  linguistic  differences  abounded,  but  only  three  groups — 
Chhetris,  Brahmans,  and  some  Newars — had  any  say  in  the  na- 
tional government.  The  Tarai,  the  richest  area  in  the  nation,  had 
been  systematically  ignored  by  the  government  and  exploited  for 
200  years,  and  many  of  its  people  felt  more  at  home  in  India  than 
Nepal.  National  integration  was  a  major  problem. 

Between  November  1951  and  February  1959,  there  was  a  suc- 
cession of  short-lived  governments  ruling  under  terms  of  the  in- 
terim constitution  or  under  the  direct  command  of  the  king, 
attempting  to  fashion  an  environment  favorable  for  the  calling  of 
a  constituent  assembly  that  would  frame  a  permanent  constitution. 
As  soon  as  the  king  found  a  ministry  uncooperative  or  so  beset  by 
contradictions  that  it  could  not  function,  he  replaced  it  with  mem- 
bers who  had  smaller  bases  of  support.  At  no  time  during  this 
period  did  the  faction  of  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  headed  by  B.P. 


42 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


Koirala,  which  commanded  the  widest  allegiance,  have  any  chance 
of  forming  a  government  because  the  king  continued  to  postpone 
elections  for  an  assembly. 

When  King  Tribhuvan  died,  his  son  Mahendra  Bir  Bikram  Shah 
Dev  (reigned  1955-72)  carried  on  as  before,  experimenting  with 
types  of  councils  or  ministries  that  would  do  his  will  behind  a 
democratic  facade.  Under  pressure  from  large-scale  civil  disobe- 
dience campaigns,  the  king  announced  that  elections  for  a  represen- 
tative assembly  would  take  place  on  February  18,  1959.  As  political 
parties  of  all  persuasions  were  busily  preparing  for  the  elections, 
the  king  had  his  own  commission  draw  up  a  new  constitution.  He 
presented  it  as  a  gift  to  the  nation  on  February  12,  1959,  with  the 
elections  only  one  week  away.  In  the  first  national  elections  in  the 
history  of  the  nation,  the  Nepali  Congress  won  a  clear  victory,  tak- 
ing 74  out  of  109  seats.  B.P.  Koirala  at  last  became  prime  minister. 

Under  the  terms  of  the  new  constitution,  there  were  two  legisla- 
tive houses:  an  Upper  House  (Maha  Sabha)  of  36  members,  half 
elected  by  the  lower  house  and  half  nominated  by  the  king;  and 
a  Lower  House  (Pratinidhi  Sabha)  of  109  members,  all  elected  by 
universal  adult  suffrage.  The  leader  of  the  majority  party  in  the 
Lower  House  became  prime  minister  and  governed  with  a  cabi- 
net of  ministers.  The  king  could  act  without  consulting  the  prime 
minister,  and  even  could  dismiss  him.  The  king  also  had  control 
over  the  army  and  foreign  affairs  and  could  invoke  emergency  pow- 
ers suspending  all  or  part  of  the  constitution. 

Against  this  background  of  formidable  royal  rights,  the  Koirala 
government  was  able  to  accomplish  some  major  tasks.  It  finally 
abolished  birta  tenure  in  October  1959  and  the  autonomy  of  prin- 
cipalities (rajya)  in  the  western  hills.  In  1960  the  government  re- 
vised a  crucial  Trade  and  Transit  Treaty  with  India.  It  also 
negotiated  another  agreement  with  India  on  the  Gandak  River 
Project,  guaranteeing  territorial  jurisdiction  and  free  provision  of 
water  to  Nepal  (see  Relations  with  India,  ch.  4).  Diplomatic  rela- 
tions were  established  with  the  United  States,  the  Soviet  Union, 
China,  France,  and  Pakistan.  Koirala  himself  addressed  the  United 
Nations,  visited  China,  and  presided  over  the  signing  of  a  Treaty 
of  Peace  and  Friendship  with  China  in  1960.  In  the  economic 
sphere,  the  First  Five- Year  Plan  (1956-61)  had  been  poorly  con- 
ceived and  executed,  but  the  Koirala  government  took  steps  to  plan 
effectively  for  the  Second  Plan  (1962-65). 

The  king  initially  was  on  good  terms  with  the  Koirala  govern- 
ment, even  taking  the  unprecedented  step  of  playing  soccer  with 
his  brothers  at  the  National  Stadium  against  a  team  that  included 
the  prime  minister  and  his  associates.  At  the  same  time,  he  was 


43 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

publicly  opposed  to  democracy  in  principle  and  would  not  tolerate 
any  official  interference  in  the  divine  powers  believed  to  be  con- 
ferred on  him  as  king.  The  army,  the  former  aristocracy,  conser- 
vative landowning  groups,  and  the  king  all  were  uneasy  about  the 
reforms  of  the  Koirala  government  and  the  negative  propaganda 
of  opposition  groups  inside  Parliament,  including  the  Gorkha 
Parishad  and  the  Communist  Party  of  Nepal.  When  destabilizing 
the  Nepali  Congress  ministry  proved  difficult,  the  king  used  the 
nation's  chronic  violence — widely  believed  to  be  orchestrated  by 
the  monarch  himself — as  a  reason  to  act  directly.  On  December 
15,  1960,  with  the  army's  support  and  with  little  warning,  the  king 
used  his  emergency  powers  to  dismiss  the  cabinet  and  arrest  its 
leaders  on  the  charge  that  they  had  failed  to  provide  national  leader- 
ship or  maintain  law  and  order.  B.P.  Koirala  spent  the  next  eight 
years  in  prison  and  another  eight  years  in  exile.  The  experiments 
in  liberal  socialism  and  democracy,  at  least  as  defined  by  the  Nepali 
Congress,  were  at  an  end. 

The  Panchayat  System  under  King  Mahendra 

On  December  26,  1961,  King  Mahendra  appointed  a  council 
of  five  ministers  to  help  run  the  administration.  Several  weeks  later, 
political  parties  were  declared  illegal.  At  first  the  Nepali  Congress 
leadership  propounded  a  nonviolent  struggle  against  the  new  order 
and  formed  alliances  with  several  political  parties,  including  the 
Gorkha  Parishad  and  the  United  Democratic  Party,  which  had  been 
strong  critics  of  the  Nepali  Congress  when  it  ran  the  government. 
Early  in  1961,  however,  the  king  had  set  up  a  committee  of  four 
officials  from  the  Central  Secretariat  to  recommend  changes  in  the 
constitution  that  would  abolish  political  parties  and  substitute  a 
"National  Guidance"  system  based  on  local  panchayat  led  directly 
by  the  king.  By  late  1961 ,  violent  actions  organized  by  the  Nepali 
Congress  in  exile  began  along  the  Indian  border,  increasing  in  size 
and  number  during  early  1962. 

The  political  situation  changed  completely  when  war  broke  out 
between  India  and  China  on  October  20,  1962.  In  a  series  of  rapid 
movements,  Chinese  troops  occupied  mountain  areas  east  and  west 
of  Nepal  in  an  attempt  to  resolve  border  disputes  with  India  by  sim- 
ply occupying  disputed  territories.  The  reversal  suffered  by  Indian 
forces  took  the  leadership  in  India  by  surprise  and  forced  it  to 
reevaluate  the  strategic  situation  in  the  Himalayas.  Because  India 
needed  strong  friends  rather  than  insurrections  in  the  region,  it 
withdrew  support  from  insurgents  along  the  border  with  Nepal  and 
established  closer  relations  with  the  king's  government.  In  Nepal, 
King  Mahendra  extended  the  state  of  emergency  indefmitely.  The 


44 


The  twelve-armed  Black  Bhairav  at  Kathmandu  is 
admired  and  revered  as  a  form  of  Shiva. 

Courtesy  Harvey  Follender 


45 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

army  trained  by  India  during  the  1950s  proved  itself  capable  of 
handling  guerrilla  warfare.  In  the  midst  of  increasing  desertions 
from  his  cause,  the  leader  of  the  Nepali  Congress,  Subarna  Sham- 
sher,  called  off  the  armed  struggle. 

Adopted  on  the  second  anniversary  of  the  royal  coup,  the  new 
constitution  of  December  16,  1962,  created  a  four- tier  panchayat 
system.  At  the  local  level,  there  were  4,000  village  assemblies  (gaun 
sabhd)  electing  nine  members  of  the  village  panchayat,  who  in  turn 
elected  a  mayor  (sabhapati).  Each  village  panchayat  sent  a  member 
to  sit  on  one  of  seventy-five  district  (zilld)  panchayat,  representing 
from  forty  to  seventy  villages;  one-third  of  the  members  of  these 
assemblies  were  chosen  by  the  town  panchayat.  Members  of  the  dis- 
trict panchayat  elected  representatives  to  fourteen  zone  assemblies 
(anchal  sahhd)  functioning  as  electoral  colleges  for  the  National  Pan- 
chayat, or  Rashtriya  Panchayat,  in  Kathmandu.  In  addition,  there 
were  class  organizations  at  village,  district,  and  zonal  levels  for 
peasants,  youth,  women,  elders,  laborers,  and  ex- soldiers,  who 
elected  their  own  representatives  to  assemblies.  The  National  Pan- 
chayat of  about  ninety  members  could  not  criticize  the  royal  govern- 
ment, debate  the  principles  of  partyless  democracy,  introduce 
budgetary  bills  without  royal  approval,  or  enact  bills  without  ap- 
proval of  the  king.  Mahendra  was  supreme  commander  of  the 
armed  forces,  appointed  (and  had  the  power  to  remove)  members 
of  the  Supreme  Court,  appointed  the  Public  Service  Commission 
to  oversee  the  civil  service,  and  could  change  any  judicial  decision 
or  amend  the  constitution  at  any  time.  To  many  of  the  unlettered 
citizens  of  the  country,  the  king  was  a  spiritual  force  as  well, 
representing  the  god  Vishnu  upholding  dharma  on  earth.  Within 
a  span  often  years,  the  king  had,  in  effect,  reclaimed  the  unlimit- 
ed power  exercised  by  Prithvi  Narayan  Shah  in  the  eighteenth 
century. 

The  first  elections  to  the  National  Panchayat  took  place  in  March 
and  April  1963.  Although  political  parties  officially  were  banned 
and  the  major  opposition  parties  publicly  refused  to  participate, 
about  one-third  of  the  members  of  the  legislative  were  associated 
with  the  Nepali  Congress.  Support  of  the  king  by  the  army  and 
the  government  bureaucracy  prevented  opposition  to  his  rule  from 
developing  within  the  panchayat  system.  Real  power  came  from  the 
king's  secretariat,  and  in  the  countryside  influence  rested  in  the 
offices  of  zonal  commissioners  and  their  official  staffs  or  the  parallel 
system  of  development  officers.  The  Nepali  Congress  leadership 
made  increasingly  conciliatory  statements  and  began  to  announce 
its  faith  in  democratic  ideals  under  the  leadership  of  the  king.  In 
1968  the  king  began  to  release  political  prisoners,  including  B.P. 


46 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


Koirala,  who  was  freed  on  October  30.  At  this  point,  a  three-way 
split  developed  in  the  Nepali  Congress.  B.P.  Koirala  went  to  In- 
dia, where  he  headed  a  wing  committed  to  democratic  revolution 
and  violent  overthrow  of  the  panchayat  system.  He  was  a  symbol 
for  youth  but  powerless  politically.  Subarna  Shamsher's  wing  con- 
tinued to  advocate  local  cooperation  with  the  king  outside  the  pan- 
chayat system.  A  third  wing  tried  to  work  within  the  panchayat  system 
in  the  expectation  that  it  would  evolve  into  a  democratic  system. 
The  disunity  of  the  political  opposition  left  King  Mahendra  to  do 
as  he  wished. 

Under  the  direct  leadership  of  the  king,  the  government  im- 
plemented some  of  the  major  projects  that  were  initiated  under  the 
previous  democratic  regime  and  oversaw  further  steps  toward  the 
development  of  the  country  (see  Constitutional  Development,  ch. 
4).  Land  reforms  led  to  the  confiscation  of  large  Rana  estates.  Rajya 
reform  abolished  special  privileges  of  some  aristocratic  elites  in 
western  Nepal.  A  new  legal  code  promulgated  in  1963  replaced 
the  Muluki  Ain  of  1854.  A  major  land  reform  program  launched 
in  1964  essentially  was  a  failure.  The  new  panchayat  system  managed 
to  bring  50,000  to  60,000  people  into  a  single  system  of  represen- 
tative government  in  a  way  that  had  been  rendered  impossible  for 
the  elite-based  political  parties.  Nepal  was  able  to  carry  out  its  sec- 
ond plan  (1962-65)  and  third  plan  (1965-70),  and  to  begin  the 
Fourth  Five- Year  Plan  (1970-75).  Eradication  of  malaria,  construc- 
tion of  the  Mahendra  Highway,  or  East-West  Highway,  along  the 
southern  foot  of  the  hills,  and  land  settlement  programs  contribut- 
ed to  a  massive  movement  of  population  from  the  hills  into  the 
Tarai,  resulting  in  a  large  increase  in  the  area  devoted  to  agricul- 
ture (see  Population,  ch.  2;  Agriculture,  ch.  3). 

The  death  of  Mahendra  in  January  1972  and  the  accession  of 
Birendra  Bir  Bikram  Shah  Dev  allowed  the  possibility  of  turmoil. 
The  new  king  was  associated  with  young,  educated,  administra- 
tive experts  who  were  dedicated  to  economic  development,  but  not 
to  sharing  power  with  political  parties.  Students  at  Tribhuvan 
University  went  on  an  indefinite  strike  in  August  to  support  a  ten- 
point  charter  of  demands.  That  month,  100  armed  men  attacked 
an  eastern  Tarai  village  and  killed  a  constable  in  a  revolutionary 
action  supposedly  linked  to  the  policies  of  B.P.  Koirala.  In  June 
1973,  terrorists  hijacked  a  Royal  Nepal  Airlines  airplane  to  India 
and  escaped  with  30  million  Indian  rupees  (approximately  US$4.6 
million).  Other  armed  attacks  and  assassination  attempts  occurred 
into  1974.  These  isolated  incidents  had  relatively  little  impact  on 
a  government  that  the  army  and  the  bureaucracy  supported  and 


47 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

that  monopolized  the  allocation  of  all  resources  to  local  develop- 
ment projects. 

In  1975  the  king  appointed  a  seven-member  Reform  Commis- 
sion to  investigate  making  changes  in  the  panchayat  system,  but  dur- 
ing that  year  Indian  prime  minister  Indira  Gandhi  declared  a  state 
of  emergency  in  her  country,  jailing  members  of  the  opposition 
and  curtailing  democracy  there.  In  this  climate,  the  recommenda- 
tions of  the  Reform  Commission  in  Nepal  led  to  a  1975  constitu- 
tional amendment  that  made  cosmetic  changes  in  the  panchayat 
system  but  only  increased  its  rigidity.  The  changes  included  the 
establishment  of  five  development  regions  to  promote  planning  and 
the  increase  in  membership  of  the  National  Panchayat  from  90  to 
134  persons.  The  king  was  to  nominate  20  percent  of  its  members. 

Modernization  under  King  Birendra 

When  it  became  apparent  that  the  panchayat  system  was  going 
to  endure,  B.P.  Koirala  and  other  political  exiles  began  to  tone 
down  their  revolutionary  rhetoric  and  advocate  a  reconciliation  with 
the  king.  On  December  30,  1976,  Koirala  and  his  close  associate, 
Ganeshman  Singh,  flew  to  Kathmandu  hoping  to  "make  a  fresh 
attempt."  They  were  arrested  for  antinational  activities  and  vio- 
lence, and  a  tribunal  was  set  up  for  a  trial.  After  considerable  agi- 
tation, Koirala  was  released  in  June  1977  because  of  ill  health.  He 
met  briefly  with  the  king  and  then  went  to  the  United  States  for 
treatment.  When  he  returned  to  Nepal  in  November  1977,  he  was 
again  arrested  at  the  airport.  After  further  public  agitations  on  his 
behalf,  he  underwent  five  treason  trials  in  early  1978  and  was  ulti- 
mately acquitted.  Thereafter,  despite  factional  splits,  the  Nepali 
Congress  resembled  other  opposition  parties  in  its  acceptance  of 
the  king's  power.  Thus,  the  pattern  of  modern  Nepalese  politics 
was  established — loyalty  to  the  king  and  opposition  to  his  govern- 
ment. In  practice,  there  were  continuing  student  demonstrations 
against  the  panchayat  system  and  for  human  rights  in  1977  and  1978. 

On  May  24,  1979,  King  Birendra  announced  on  Radio  Nepal 
that  there  would  be  a  national  referendum  in  the  near  future,  dur- 
ing which  the  people  could  decide  to  support  or  reject  the  panchayat 
system  of  government.  This  referendum  represented  the  first  time 
in  modern  history  that  the  monarch  had  publicly  consulted  his  sub- 
jects. Political  freedom  was  allowed  to  all  citizens  during  the  peri- 
od of  preparation  for  the  referendum,  and  there  was  intense 
realignment  of  political  factions  inside  and  outside  the  panchayat 
system.  Finally,  on  May  2,  1980,  out  of  a  potential  7.2  million 
voters,  4.8  million  cast  their  ballots.  The  outcome  supported  the 
panchayat  system,  with  54.7  percent  for  and  45.3  percent  against 


48 


Ghats  along  the  Hanumante  River  in  Bhaktapur,  a  place  to  bathe  and  wash 

Courtesy  Ann  Matles 

it.  Koirala  and  the  Nepali  Congress  accepted  the  results.  Although 
the  referendum  was  a  victory  for  the  king,  its  narrow  margin  clearly 
indicated  the  need  for  change.  Accordingly,  the  king  quickly  con- 
firmed freedom  of  speech  and  political  activity  and  announced  the 
formation  of  an  eleven-member  Constitution  Reforms  Commis- 
sion. The  result,  in  December  1980,  was  the  Third  Amendment 
of  the  1962  constitution,  setting  up  direct  elections  to  the  National 
Panchayat,  which  would  then  submit  a  single  candidate  for  prime 
minister  to  the  king  for  approval.  A  Council  of  Ministers  would 
thenceforth  be  responsible  to  the  National  Panchayat,  not  to  the 
king. 

In  March  1981,  the  Constitution  Reforms  Commission  an- 
nounced that  elections  to  the  National  Panchayat  would  take  place 
on  May  9,  1981 .  Aside  from  pro-Moscow  factions  of  the  Communist 
Party  of  Nepal  and  a  "Group  of  38"  from  the  Nepali  Congress, 
political  parties  rejected  the  amended  constitution  and  refused  to 
participate  in  the  elections.  The  Nepali  Congress  led  by  Koirala 
observed  an  "election  boycott  week"  from  May  1  to  8,  but  on  elec- 
tion day  a  52  percent  turnout  of  voters  chose  111  representatives 
to  the  National  Panchayat.  Surya  Bahadur  Thapa  was  returned 
as  prime  minister,  and  the  king  formed  a  twenty-eight-member 
Council  of  Ministers  in  June  1981. 


49 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Opposition  politics  were  in  a  state  of  disarray,  dominated  by  the 
terminal  illness  of  Koirala,  who  died  in  July  1982.  The  victory  of 
the  king  was  not  complete,  however.  During  the  elections,  more 
than  70  percent  of  the  candidates  favored  by  the  king  lost.  The 
panchayat  system,  a  major  source  for  local  patronage,  was  becom- 
ing the  stage  for  factional  fights  and  shuffling  coalitions.  On  many 
college  campuses,  elections  for  student  unions  went  to  communists 
after  violent  clashes. 

The  trend  toward  factionalism  in  the  National  Panchayat  inten- 
sified in  1983,  when  a  serious  food  crisis  and  charges  of  corrup- 
tion caused  the  fall  of  Surya  Bahadur  Thapa's  government. 
Lokendra  Bahadur  Chand  took  over  as  prime  minister,  but  two 
blocs,  or  samuha  (see  Glossary),  had  emerged  in  the  National  Pan- 
chayat around  Thapa  and  Chand.  The  factional  fighting  did  not 
prevent  the  celebration  in  1986  of  the  panchayat  system's  twenty- 
fifth  anniversary,  which  created  an  opportunity  for  the  second 
general  election  to  the  National  Panchayat.  The  Nepali  Congress 
and  most  other  opposition  parties  again  boycotted  the  elections, 
although  the  communists  and  a  few  other  small  parties  did  partic- 
ipate. The  elections  drew  60  percent  of  the  voters,  and  60  percent 
of  the  members  of  the  National  Panchayat  supported  Marich  Man 
Singh  Shrestha  as  prime  minister. 

Before  elections  to  the  local  panchayat  the  following  year,  the  Nepa- 
li Congress  announced  that  it  would  continue  its  boycott  but  then 
changed  its  strategy  and  allowed  its  members  to  run  for  local  seats, 
claiming  that  it  could  ''capture  the  outposts"  of  the  system  and 
politicize  the  people.  The  poor  showing  of  the  Nepali  Congress  can- 
didates embarrassed  the  party,  however,  and  revealed  its  isolation 
from  many  rural  voters. 

Despite  low  growth  figures,  throughout  the  1980s  Nepal  at  least 
had  made  some  progress  in  economic  development,  but  it  remained 
in  any  case  one  of  the  poorest  countries  in  the  world  (see  Econom- 
ic Setting,  ch.  3).  The  king  was  achieving  a  higher  profile  in  inter- 
national affairs,  canvassing  widespread  support  for  the  declaration 
of  Nepal  as  a  zone  of  peace  and  participating  in  the  South  Asian 
Association  for  Regional  Cooperation  (SAARC — see  Glossary;  In- 
ternational and  Regional  Organizations,  ch.  4).  These  modest 
trends  encountered  a  sudden  interruption  in  1989  when  a  major 
international  incident  with  India  occurred.  On  March  1,  the  Indi- 
an embassy  announced  that  trade  and  transit  treaties  with  Nepal, 
renewed  regularly  since  the  1950s,  would  expire  twenty-two  days 
later.  Both  the  Indian  and  Nepalese  governments  accused  each  other 
of  delaying  negotiations.  When  March  23  arrived,  India  declared 
the  treaties  had  expired  and  closed  all  but  two  border  entry  points 


50 


Nepal:  Historical  Setting 


into  Nepal.  These  closures  caused  huge  backups  on  the  border  and 
delayed  or  halted  the  bulk  of  foreign  trade,  including  crucial  ship- 
ments of  oil  and  gasoline,  and  the  tourist  trade,  a  major  source 
of  foreign  exchange  carefully  cultivated  under  King  Birendra. 
Agricultural  production  declined,  layoffs  in  factories  increased,  and 
the  inflation  rate  in  1987-88  rose  to  11  percent.  The  growth  rate 
of  the  economy,  a  healthy  9.7  percent  in  1987-88,  declined  to  1.5 
percent  in  1988-89. 

The  Nepali  Congress,  early  in  its  history  accused  of  bowing  to 
Indian  opinion,  in  September  organized  a  National  Awakening 
Week  during  which  3,500  party  members  committed  nonviolent 
civil  disobedience.  Student  demonstrations  against  India  began  to 
take  on  antigovernment  tones,  and  all  campuses  in  Kathmandu 
closed  for  two  months.  The  crisis  demonstrated  the  fragility  of  the 
political  and  economic  system  in  Nepal — an  old  culture  but  a  young 
nation — landlocked  between  two  giants  and  directed  by  a  medieval 
monarchy. 

*    *  * 

The  most  complete  and  readable  account  of  ancient  and  medieval 
Nepalese  history  in  English  is  Mary  Shephers  Slusser's  Nepal Man- 
dala,  which  also  contains  an  excellent  bibliography  of  the  consider- 
able work  available  only  in  Nepali.  Luciano  Petech's  Medieval  History 
of  Nepal  (ca.  750-1480)  contains  interesting  details  and  summarizes 
information  in  a  quite  readable  manner.  Dilli  Raman  Regmi'sAn- 
cient  Nepal  and  Medieval  Nepal  are  exhaustive  accounts  with  large 
amounts  of  original  material. 

Ludwig  Stiller  describes  the  period  of  the  Gorkha  conquests  and 
the  consolidation  of  the  Nepalese  state  in  the  early  eighteenth  cen- 
tury in  The  Rise  of  the  House  of  Gorkha  and  The  Silent  Cry.  John  Pem- 
ble  presents  a  straightforward  analysis  of  the  Anglo-Nepalese  War 
in  The  Invasion  of  Nepal. 

For  relations  between  the  British  and  Nepal  later  in  the  nineteenth 
century,  see  Ravuri  Dhanalaxmi's  British  Attitude  to  Nepal's  Rela- 
tions with  Tibet  and  China,  1814-1914,  Sushila  Tyagi's  Indo-Nepalese 
Relations  (1858-1914),  or  Kanchanmoy  Mojumdar's  Anglo-Nepalese 
Relations  in  the  Nineteenth  Century.  Affairs  of  the  Ranas  in  the  late 
nineteenth  century  are  covered  in  M.S.  Jain's  Emergence  of  a  New 
Aristocracy  in  Nepal  (1837-58),  Krishna  Kant  Adhikari's  Nepal  un- 
der Jang  Bahadur,  1846-1877,  and  Satish  Kumar's  Rana  Polity  in 
Nepal. 

There  is  no  shortage  of  books  on  the  fall  of  the  Rana  regime 
and  the  political  changes  that  led  to  the  king's  dominance  by  1980. 


51 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Leo  E.  Rose  has  written  books  on  his  own,  including  Nepal:  Strate- 
gy for  Survival,  as  well  as  those  with  other  authors,  including  the 
introductory  Nepal:  Profile  of  a  Himalayan  Kingdom  (with  John  T. 
Scholz),  The  Politics  of  Nepal  (with  Margaret  W.  Fisher),  and 
Democratic  Innovations  in  Nepal  (with  Bhuwan  Lai  Joshi). 

There  also  are  a  number  of  works  that  describe  recent  develop- 
ments from  several  Nepalese  perspectives,  including  Shashi  P.  Mis- 
ra's  B.P.  Koirala:  A  Case  Study  in  Third  World  Democratic  Leadership 
and  Parmanand's  The  Nepali  Congress  since  Its  Inception.  Hem 
Narayan  Agrawal  gives  a  straightforward  presentation  of  the 
modern  constitutions  in  Nepal:  A  Study  in  Constitutional  Change.  For 
current  events,  the  short  annual  country  profiles  of  Nepal  in  Febru- 
ary issues  of  Asian  Survey  can  keep  the  reader  up  to  date.  (For  fur- 
ther information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


52 


Chapter  2.  Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Hanuman,  the  monkey  god  of  the  Ramayana,  the  Hindu  epic. 
Hanuman,  aided  by  monkeys,  assists  Rama  in  recovering  his  wife,  Sita,  from 
Ravana  by  bridging  the  straits  between  India  and  Sri  Lanka  with  boulders 
brought  from  the  Himalayas. 


NEPAL  IS  OFTEN  CHARACTERIZED  as  a  country  caught 
in  two  different  worlds,  having  one  leg  in  the  sixteenth  century 
and  another  in  the  twentieth  century.  Entrenched  in  a  feudalistic 
social  structure,  the  deeply  tradition-bound  society  increasingly  was 
experiencing  the  pervasive  influence  of  Western  material  culture. 
Most  affected  were  the  parts  of  the  population  that  came  in  regu- 
lar contact  with  Westerners.  Nowhere  was  this  juxtaposition  of 
local  traditional  values  and  Western  material  culture  more  pro- 
nounced than  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley — the  country's  most  ur- 
banized region. 

In  the  Kathmandu  Valley  in  1991 ,  hordes  of  people  took  ritual 
baths  in  the  highly  polluted  Baghmati  River,  especially  near  the 
temple  of  Pashupatinath,  and  walked  to  temples  that  dotted  the 
valley's  landscape.  Numerous  peasants  carried  their  produce  to  the 
market  on  bicycles  or  on  what  is  locally  called  a  kharpan,  a  device 
that  resembles  a  large  weighing  balance  and  is  carried  on  the  shoul- 
der. Yet,  young  boys  wore  T-shirts  emblazoned  with  Michael  Jack- 
son or  other  Hollywood  celebrities  and  watched  ' ' Miami  Vice" 
or  other  American  television  shows.  The  skyline  of  urban  areas 
such  as  Kathmandu,  Siddhartha  Nagar,  and  Pokhara  was  inter- 
rupted by  television  antennas.  Copying  Western  popular  culture 
and  values  had  become  the  thing  to  do.  Nepalese  youth  even  took 
drugs,  and  the  number  of  drug  addicts  had  increased  significantly 
in  the  1980s. 

The  adoption  of  Western  popular  cultural  values  has  not, 
however,  translated  into  much-needed  technological  and  econom- 
ic progress  and  a  consequent  reduction  in  pervasive  poverty. 
Although  youths,  especially  those  living  in  and  around  urban 
centers,  readily  adopted  Western  consumer  habits,  they  appeared 
to  have  littie  knowledge  about  more  productive  habits  that  the  West 
exemplifies.  Entranced  by  the  tide  of  consumerism,  Nepalese  youths 
seemed  poorly  prepared  or  unwilling  to  do  hard  work  and  make 
sacrifices  that  were  imperative  for  establishing  dynamic  economic 
production  and  development.  As  a  result,  consumerism  outpaced 
productive  capacity — a  process  that  was  clearly  contrary  to  sus- 
tained socioeconomic  progress — and  the  country  remained  in  a  state 
of  economic  backwardness. 

Despite  Nepal's  increasing  contact  with  the  West  since  libera- 
tion from  Rana  rule  in  1951,  the  feudalistic  yoke  has  not  been 
broken  (see  Modernization  under  King  Mahendra,  ch.  1).  Even 


55 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

after  thirty-five  years  of  economic  development  planning,  poverty 
remained  throughout  the  country.  Government  intervention  in  eco- 
nomic development  under  the  rubric  of  planning  has  led  to  a  break- 
down in  the  traditional  patron-client  relations.  In  the  past,  this 
relationship  provided  some  security  of  survival — or  what  Karl  Poly- 
ani  termed  in  1957  "the  absence  of  the  threat  of  individual 
starvation" — for  the  clients,  although  they  were  placed  in  a  sub- 
servient position.  In  1991  such  patron-client  relations  had  been 
replaced  by  wage  relations,  but  planned  development  had  not  been 
able  to  create  enough  employment  opportunities  to  gainfully  ab- 
sorb the  clients  who  no  longer  could  rely  on  their  patrons. 

There  was  no  doubt  among  observers  that  only  an  increasing 
flow  of  foreign  aid  and  loans  had  kept  Nepal  from  bankruptcy.  Yet 
there  seemed  to  be  little  evidence  suggesting  that  the  aid  had,  despite 
good  intentions,  alleviated  mass  poverty  and  uplifted  the  society 
as  a  whole.  Unemployment  among  the  educated  was  partially  ad- 
dressed through  the  continued  expansion  of  government  jobs,  but 
such  expansion  resulted  in  bureaucratic  redundancy  and,  in  fact, 
hindered  economic  development.  Furthermore,  such  a  strategy  had 
only  a  limited  ability  to  reduce  the  mass  unemployment  and  under- 
employment that  typified  Nepal's  society.  Widespread  unemploy- 
ment and  underemployment,  which  fueled  poverty,  were  further 
exacerbated  by  continued  rapid  population  growth.  Despite  a  long- 
term  and  vigorous  family  planning  program,  the  population  had 
been  growing  at  an  increasing  rate.  Such  population  growth  con- 
tributed to  increasing  environmental  deterioration,  given  the  frailty 
of  the  country's  mountainous  environment. 

Geography 
The  Land 

Sandwiched  between  two  Asian  giants — China  and  India — Nepal 
traditionally  has  been  characterized  as  "a  yam  caught  between 
two  rocks."  Noted  for  its  majestic  Himalayas,  which  in  Sanskrit 
means  the  abode  of  snow,  Nepal  is  very  mountainous  and  hilly. 
Its  shape  is  roughly  rectangular,  about  650  kilometers  long  and 
about  200  kilometers  wide,  and  comprises  a  total  of  147,181  square 
kilometers  of  land.  It  is  slightly  larger  than  Bangladesh  or  the  state 
of  Arkansas.  Nepal  is  a  landlocked  country,  surrounded  by  India 
on  three  sides  and  by  China's  Xizang  Autonomous  Region  (Tibet) 
to  the  north.  It  is  separated  from  Bangladesh  by  an  approximately 
fifteen-kilometer-wide  strip  of  India's  state  of  West  Bengal,  and  from 
Bhutan  by  the  eighty-eight-kilometer-wide  Sikkim,  also  an  Indian 
state.  Such  a  confined  geographical  position  is  hardly  enviable. 


56 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

Nepal  is  almost  totally  dependent  on  India  for  transit  facilities  and 
access  to  the  sea — that  is,  the  Bay  of  Bengal — even  for  most  of  the 
goods  coming  from  China. 

For  a  small  country,  Nepal  has  great  physical  diversity,  rang- 
ing from  the  Tarai  Plain — the  northern  rim  of  the  Gangetic  Plain 
situated  at  about  300  meters  above  sea  level  in  the  south — to  the 
almost  8,800-meter-high  Mount  Everest,  locally  known  as  Sagar- 
matha  (its  Nepali  name),  in  the  north.  From  the  lowland  Tarai 
belt,  landforms  rise  in  successive  hill  and  mountain  ranges,  includ- 
ing the  stupendous  rampart  of  the  towering  Himalayas,  ultimate- 
ly reaching  the  Tibetan  Plateau  beyond  the  Inner  Himalayas.  This 
rise  in  elevation  is  punctuated  by  valleys  situated  between  moun- 
tain ranges.  Within  this  maze  of  mountains,  hills,  ridges,  and  low 
valleys,  elevational  (altitudinal)  changes  resulted  in  ecological  var- 
iations. 

Nepal  commonly  is  divided  into  three  broad  physiographic  areas: 
the  Mountain  Region,  the  Hill  Region,  and  the  Tarai  Region  (see 
fig.  4).  All  three  parallel  each  other,  from  east  to  west,  as  continu- 
ous ecological  belts,  occasionally  bisected  by  the  country's  river 
systems.  These  ecological  regions  were  divided  by  the  government 
into  development  sectors  within  the  framework  of  regional  develop- 
ment planning. 

The  rhythm  of  life  in  Nepal,  as  in  most  other  parts  of  monsoonal 
Asia,  is  intricately  yet  intrinsically  intertwined  with  its  physical  en- 
vironment. As  scholar  Barry  Bishop  learned  from  his  field  research 
in  the  Karnali  region  in  the  northwest,  the  livelihood  patterns  of 
Nepal  are  inseparable  from  the  environment. 

The  Mountain  Region 

The  Mountain  Region  (called  Parbat  in  Nepali)  is  situated  at 
4,000  meters  or  more  above  sea  level  to  the  north  of  the  Hill  Region. 
The  Mountain  Region  constitutes  the  central  portion  of  the 
Himalayan  range  originating  in  the  Pamirs,  a  high  altitude  region 
of  Central  Asia.  Its  natural  landscape  includes  Mount  Everest  and 
seven  other  of  the  world's  ten  highest  peaks,  which  are  the  legend- 
ary habitat  of  the  mythical  creature,  the  yeti,  or  abominable  snow- 
man. In  general,  the  snow  line  occurs  between  5,000  and  5,500 
meters.  The  region  is  characterized  by  inclement  climatic  and 
rugged  topographic  conditions,  and  human  habitation  and  econom- 
ic activities  are  extremely  limited  and  arduous.  Indeed,  the  region 
is  sparsely  populated,  and  whatever  farming  activity  exists  is  mostiy 
confined  to  the  low-lying  valleys  and  the  river  basins,  such  as  the 
upper  Kali  Gandaki  Valley. 


57 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

In  the  early  1990s,  pastoralism  and  trading  were  common  eco- 
nomic activities  among  mountain  dwellers.  Because  of  their  heavy 
dependence  on  herding  and  trading,  transhumance  was  widely  prac- 
ticed. Herders  moved  their  goths  (temporary  animal  shelters)  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  seasonal  climatic  rhythms,  and  traders  also 
migrated  seasonally  between  highlands  and  lowlands,  buying  and 
selling  goods  and  commodities  in  order  to  generate  much-needed 
income  and  to  secure  food  supplies. 

The  Hill  Region 

Situated  south  of  the  Mountain  Region,  the  Hill  Region  (called 
Pahar  in  Nepali)  is  mostly  between  1,000  and  4,000  meters  in  al- 
titude. It  includes  the  Kathmandu  Valley,  the  country's  most  fer- 
tile and  urbanized  area.  Two  major  ranges  of  hills,  commonly 
known  as  the  Mahabharat  Lekh  and  Siwalik  Range  (or  Churia 
Range),  occupy  the  region.  In  addition,  there  are  several  inter- 
montane  valleys.  Despite  its  geographical  isolation  and  limited  eco- 
nomic potential,  the  region  always  has  been  the  political  and  cultural 
center  of  Nepal,  with  decision-making  power  centralized  in  Kath- 
mandu, the  nation's  capital.  Because  of  immigration  from  Tibet 
and  India,  the  hill  ranges  historically  have  been  the  most  heavily 
populated  area.  Despite  heavy  out-migration,  the  Hill  Region  com- 
prised the  largest  share  of  the  total  population  in  1991. 

Although  the  higher  elevations  (above  2,500  meters)  in  the  region 
were  sparsely  populated  because  of  physiographic  and  climatic 
difficulties,  the  lower  hills  and  valleys  were  densely  settled.  The 
hill  landscape  was  both  a  natural  and  cultural  mosaic,  shaped  by 
geological  forces  and  human  activity.  The  hills,  sculpted  by  hu- 
man hands  into  a  massive  complex  of  terraces,  were  extensively 
cultivated. 

Like  the  Mountain  Region,  the  Hill  Region  was  a  food-deficit 
area  in  the  early  1990s,  although  agriculture  was  the  predominant 
economic  activity  supplemented  by  livestock  raising,  foraging,  and 
seasonal  migrating  of  laborers.  The  vast  majority  of  the  households 
living  in  the  hills  were  land-hungry  and  owned  largely  pakho  (hil- 
ly) land.  The  poor  economic  situation  caused  by  lack  of  sufficient 
land  was  aggravated  by  the  relatively  short  growing  season,  a 
phenomenon  directly  attributable  to  the  climatic  impact  of  the 
region's  higher  altitude.  As  a  result,  a  hill  farmer's  ability  to  grow 
multiple  crops  was  limited.  The  families  were  forced  to  adapt  to 
the  marginality,  as  well  as  the  seasonality,  of  their  environment, 
cultivating  their  land  whenever  they  could  and  growing  whatever 
would  survive.  Bishop  has  noted  that  "as  crop  productivity 
decreases  with  elevation,  the  importance  of  livestock  in  livelihood 


59 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

pursuits  .  .  .  increases.  For  many  Bhotia  [or  Bhote]  living  in  the 
highlands  .  .  .  animal  husbandry  supplants  agriculture  in  impor- 
tance.'  '  During  the  slack  season,  when  the  weather  did  not  permit 
cropping,  hill  dwellers  generally  became  seasonal  migrants,  who 
engaged  in  wage  labor  wherever  they  could  find  it  to  supplement 
their  meager  farm  output.  Dependence  on  nonagricultural  activi- 
ties was  even  more  necessary  in  the  mountain  ecological  belt. 

The  Tarai  Region 

In  complete  topographic  contrast  to  the  Mountain  and  Hill 
regions,  the  Tarai  Region  is  a  lowland  tropical  and  subtropical  belt 
of  flat,  alluvial  land  stretching  along  the  Nepal-India  border,  and 
paralleling  the  Hill  Region.  It  is  the  northern  extension  of  the  Gan- 
getic  Plain  in  India,  commencing  at  about  300  meters  above  sea 
level  and  rising  to  about  1,000  meters  at  the  foot  of  the  Siwalik 
Range.  The  Tarai  includes  several  valleys  {dun),  such  as  the  Sur- 
khet  and  Dang  valleys  in  western  Nepal,  and  the  Rapti  Valley  (Chit- 
wan)  in  central  Nepal. 

The  word  tarai,  a  term  presumed  to  be  derived  from  Persian, 
means  "damp,"  and  it  appropriately  describes  the  region's  hu- 
mid and  hot  climate.  The  region  was  formed  and  is  fed  by  three 
major  rivers:  the  Kosi,  the  Narayani  (India's  Gandak  River),  and 
the  Karnali.  A  region  that  in  the  past  contained  malaria-infested, 
thick  forests,  commonly  known  as  char  kosejhari  (dense  forests  ap- 
proximately twelve  kilometers  wide),  the  Tarai  was  used  as  a  defen- 
sive frontier  by  Nepalese  rulers  during  the  period  of  the  British 
Raj  (1858-1947)  in  India.  In  1991  the  Tarai  served  as  the  coun- 
try's granary  and  land  resettlement  frontier;  it  became  the  most 
coveted  internal  destination  for  land-hungry  hill  peasants. 

In  terms  of  both  farm  and  forest  lands,  the  Tarai  was  becoming 
Nepal's  richest  economic  region.  Overall,  Tarai  residents  enjoyed 
a  greater  availability  of  agricultural  land  than  did  other  Nepalese 
because  of  the  area's  generally  flat  terrain,  which  is  drained  and 
nourished  by  several  rivers.  Additionally,  it  has  the  largest  com- 
mercially exploitable  forests.  In  the  early  1990s,  however,  the  forests 
were  being  increasingly  destroyed  because  of  growing  demands  for 
timber  and  agricultural  land. 

Climate 

Nepal  has  a  great  deal  of  variation  in  climate.  Its  latitude  is  about 
the  same  as  that  of  Florida,  and  a  tropical  and  subtropical  climate 
exists  in  the  Tarai  Region.  Outside  the  Tarai,  however,  the  cli- 
mate is  completely  different.  The  remarkable  differences  in  climatic 
conditions  are  primarily  related  to  the  enormous  range  of  altitude 


60 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


within  such  a  short  north- south  distance.  The  presence  of  the  east- 
west-trending  Himalayan  massifs  to  the  north  and  the  monsoonal 
alteration  of  wet  and  dry  seasons  also  gready  contribute  to  local 
variations  in  climate.  Scholar  Sharad  Singh  Negi  identifies  five  cli- 
matic zones  in  Nepal  based  on  altitude:  the  tropical  and  subtropi- 
cal zone  of  below  1,200  meters  in  altitude;  the  cool,  temperate  zone 
of  1,200  to  2,400  meters  in  altitude;  the  cold  zone  of  2,400  to  3,600 
meters  in  altitude;  the  subarctic  climatic  zone  of  3,600  to  4,400 
meters  in  altitude;  and  the  arctic  zone  above  4,400  meters  in  alti- 
tude. In  terms  of  natural  vegetational  regimes  or  distribution  pat- 
terns, altitude  again  plays  a  significant  role.  Below  1,200  meters, 
the  dominant  form  of  vegetation  consists  of  tropical  and  subtropi- 
cal rain  forests. 

Altitude  also  affects  annual  rainfall  or  precipitation  patterns.  Up 
to  about  3,000  meters,  annual  rainfall  totals  increase  as  the  alti- 
tude increases;  thereafter,  annual  totals  diminish  with  increasing 
altitude  and  latitude.  In  addition  to  this  latitudinal  differentiation 
in  rainfall,  two  other  patterns  can  be  discerned.  First,  given  the 
northwestward  movement  of  the  moisture-laden  summer  monsoon 
(June  to  September),  the  amount  of  annual  rainfall  generally 
decreases  from  east  to  west.  However,  there  are  certain  pockets 
with  heavy  annual  rainfall  totals,  for  example,  the  Pokhara  Valley 
in  central  Nepal.  Second,  the  horizontal  extension  of  hill  and  moun- 
tain ranges  creates  a  moist  condition  on  south-and  east-facing  slopes 
whereas  it  produces  a  major  rain  shadow  on  the  northern  sides  of 
the  slopes.  The  aridity  increases  with  altitude  and  latitude,  espe- 
cially on  the  northern  slopes,  and  reaches  its  climax  in  the  inner 
Himalayan  region  and  on  the  Tibetan  Plateau.  Eastern  Nepal 
receives  approximately  2,500  millimeters  of  rain  annually,  the  Kath- 
mandu  area  about  1,420  millimeters,  and  western  Nepal  about 
1,000  millimeters. 

The  towering  Himalayas  play  a  critical  role,  blocking  the  north- 
westerly advances  of  moist,  tropical  air  from  the  Bay  of  Bengal, 
and  ultimately  leading  to  its  conversion  to  rain  in  the  summer.  In 
the  winter,  this  range  prevents  the  outbursts  of  cold  air  from  Inner 
Asia  from  reaching  southern  Nepal  and  northern  India,  thus  ensuring 
warmer  winters  in  these  regions  than  otherwise  would  be  the  case. 

In  addition,  there  are  seasonal  variations  in  the  amount  of  rain- 
fall, depending  on  the  monsoon  cycle.  Bishop  divides  the  monsoon 
cycle  into  four  seasons:  premonsoon,  summer  monsoon,  postmon- 
soon,  and  winter  monsoon.  The  premonsoon  season  generally  oc- 
curs during  April  and  May;  it  is  characterized  by  the  highest 
temperatures,  reaching  40°C  during  the  day  in  the  Tarai  Region 
and  other  lowlands.  The  hills  and  mountains,  however,  remain  cool. 


61 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

The  summer  monsoon,  a  strong  flow  of  moist  air  from  the  south- 
west, follows  the  premonsoon  season.  For  the  vast  majority  of 
southern  Asians,  including  Nepalese,  the  term  monsoon  is  synony- 
mous with  the  summer  rainy  season,  which  makes  or  breaks  the 
lives  of  hundreds  of  millions  of  farmers  on  the  subcontinent.  Even 
though  the  arrival  of  the  summer  monsoon  can  vary  by  as  much 
as  a  month,  in  Nepal  it  generally  arrives  in  early  June,  is  preced- 
ed by  violent  lightning  and  thunderstorms,  and  lasts  through  Sep- 
tember, when  it  begins  to  recede.  The  plains  and  lower  Himalayas 
receive  more  than  70  percent  of  their  annual  precipitation  during 
the  summer  monsoon.  The  amount  of  summer  monsoon  rain  gener- 
ally declines  from  southeast  to  northwest  as  the  maritime  wedge 
of  air  gradually  becomes  thinner  and  dryer.  Although  the  success 
of  farming  is  almost  totally  dependent  on  the  timely  arrival  of  the 
summer  monsoon,  it  periodically  causes  landslides;  subsequent  loss- 
es of  human  lives,  farmlands,  and  other  properties  (not  to  men- 
tion great  difficulty  in  the  movement  of  goods  and  people);  and 
heavy  flooding  in  the  plains.  Conversely,  when  prolonged  breaks 
in  the  summer  monsoon  occur,  severe  drought  and  famine  often 
result. 

The  postmonsoon  season  begins  with  a  slow  withdrawal  of  the 
monsoon.  This  retreat  leads  to  an  almost  complete  disappearance 
of  moist  air  by  mid-October,  thus  ushering  in  generally  cool,  clear, 
and  dry  weather,  as  well  as  the  most  relaxed  and  jovial  period  in 
Nepal.  By  this  time  the  harvest  is  completed  and  people  are  in  a 
festive  mood.  The  two  biggest  and  most  important  Hindu 
festivals — Dashain  and  Tihar  (Dipawali) — arrive  during  this  period, 
about  one  month  apart  (see  Religion,  this  ch.).  The  postmonsoon 
season  lasts  until  about  December. 

After  the  postmonsoon,  comes  the  winter  monsoon,  a  strong 
northeasterly  flow,  which  is  marked  by  occasional,  short  rainfalls 
in  the  lowlands  and  plains  and  snowfalls  in  the  high-altitude  areas. 
The  amount  of  precipitation  resulting  from  the  northeast  land  trade 
winds  varies  considerably  but  increases  markedly  with  elevation. 
The  secondary  winter  precipitation  in  the  form  of  snowfalls  in  the 
Himalayas  is  important  for  generating  a  sufficient  volume  of  spring 
and  summer  meltwaters,  which  are  critical  for  irrigation  in  the  lower 
hills  and  valleys  where  agriculture  predominates.  Winter  precipi- 
tation is  also  indispensable  for  the  success  of  winter  crops,  such 
as  wheat,  barley,  and  numerous  vegetables. 

The  River  System 

Nepal  can  be  divided  into  three  major  river  systems  from  east 
to  west:  the  Kosi  River,  the  Narayani  River  (India's  Gandak 


62 


Figure  5.  Nepal:  Topography  and  Drainage 
64 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

River),  and  the  Karnali  River  (see  fig.  5).  All  ultimately  become 
major  tributaries  of  the  Ganges  River  in  northern  India.  After 
plunging  through  deep  gorges,  these  rivers  deposit  their  heavy  sedi- 
ments and  debris  on  the  plains,  thereby  nurturing  them  and  renew- 
ing their  alluvial  soil  fertility.  Once  they  reach  the  Tarai  Region, 
they  often  overflow  their  banks  onto  wide  floodplains  during  the 
summer  monsoon  season,  periodically  shifting  their  courses.  Be- 
sides providing  fertile  alluvial  soil,  the  backbone  of  the  agrarian 
economy,  these  rivers  present  great  possibilities  for  hydroelectric 
and  irrigation  development.  India  managed  to  exploit  this  resource 
by  building  massive  dams  on  the  Kosi  and  Narayani  rivers  inside 
the  Nepal  border,  known,  respectively,  as  the  Kosi  and  Gandak 
projects  (see  Energy,  ch.  3).  None  of  these  river  systems,  however, 
support  any  significant  commercial  navigation  facility.  Rather,  the 
deep  gorges  formed  by  the  rivers  represent  immense  obstacles  to 
establishing  the  broad  transport  and  communication  networks  need- 
ed to  develop  an  integrated  national  economy.  As  a  result,  the  econ- 
omy in  Nepal  has  remained  fragmented.  Because  Nepal's  rivers 
have  not  been  harnessed  for  transportation,  most  settlements  in 
the  Hill  and  Mountain  regions  remain  isolated  from  each  other. 
As  of  1991,  trails  remained  the  primary  transportation  routes  in 
the  hills. 

The  eastern  part  of  the  country  is  drained  by  the  Kosi  River, 
which  has  seven  tributaries.  It  is  locally  known  as  the  Sapt  Kosi, 
which  means  seven  Kosi  rivers  (Tamur,  Likhu  Khola,  Dudh,  Sun, 
Indrawati,  Tama,  and  Arun).  The  principal  tributary  is  the  Arun, 
which  rises  about  150  kilometers  inside  the  Tibetan  Plateau.  The 
Narayani  River  drains  the  central  part  of  Nepal  and  also  has  seven 
major  tributaries  (Daraudi,  Seti,  Madi,  Kali,  Marsyandi,  Budhi, 
and  Trisuli).  The  Kali,  which  flows  between  the  Dhaulagiri  Himal 
and  the  Annapurna  Himal  (Himal  is  the  Nepali  variation  of  the 
Sanskrit  word  Himalaya),  is  the  main  river  of  this  drainage  system. 
The  river  system  draining  the  western  part  of  Nepal  is  the  Karna- 
li. Its  three  immediate  tributaries  are  the  Bheri,  Seti,  and  Karnali 
rivers,  the  latter  being  the  major  one.  The  Maha  Kali,  which  also 
is  known  as  the  Kali  and  which  flows  along  the  Nepal-India  bor- 
der on  the  west  side,  and  the  Rapti  River  also  are  considered  tribu- 
taries of  the  Karnali. 

Population 

Population  Structure  and  Settlement  Patterns 

At  the  time  of  the  1981  census,  the  total  population  of  Nepal 
was  15,022,839,  the  average  family  was  made  up  of  5.8  persons, 


65 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

and  life  expectancy  at  birth  was  close  to  fifty  years.  As  of  July  1990, 
the  population  was  estimated  at  19,145,800  persons.  The  annual 
population  growth  rate  increased  from  less  than  2  percent  during 
the  1950s  to  more  than  2.6  percent  in  1990,  suggesting  that  despite 
a  trend  toward  increasing  acceptance  of  family  planning,  the  pro- 
gram did  not  have  much  influence  on  reducing  the  population 
growth  rate.  The  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics  forecast  that  the  to- 
tal population  would  increase  to  23.6  million  by  2001  (see  table 
2,  Appendix). 

The  1981  census  reveals  a  significant  variation  in  regional  growth 
rates.  Although  the  Tarai  Region's  annual  growth  rate  of  4.2  per- 
cent was  much  higher  than  the  national  average,  the  Hill  and 
Mountain  regions,  respectively,  posted  growth  rates  of  1 .7  and  1 .4 
percent.  In  terms  of  regional  distribution,  43.6  percent  (6,556,828 
persons)  of  the  country's  population  resided  in  the  Tarai,  whereas 
the  shares  of  the  Hill  and  Mountain  regions  totaled  7,163,1 15  (47.7 
percent)  and  1,302,896  (8.7  percent),  respectively. 

About  70  percent  of  the  total  population  was  of  working  age, 
or  between  the  ages  of  fifteen  and  fifty-nine  years.  More  than  65 
percent  of  this  segment  of  the  population  was  considered  econom- 
ically active  in  1981  (see  Labor,  ch.  3).  In  terms  of  employment 
structure,  more  than  91  percent  of  the  economically  active  popu- 
lation was  engaged  in  agriculture  and  allied  activities,  and  the  rest 
in  the  secondary  (industrial)  and  tertiary  (service)  sectors,  includ- 
ing government  employment.  In  1981  males  and  females  who  were 
widowed  or  separated  constituted  only  a  tiny  fragment  of  the 
population — 0.4  percent  for  each  sex. 

Dependency  and  Sex  Ratios 

The  dependency  ratio  is  defined  as  the  ratio  of  the  population 
in  the  birth  to  fourteen  age- group,  and  those  sixty  years  and  older, 
to  the  population  in  the  productive  age-group,  that  is,  fifteen  to 
fifty-nine  years  of  age.  In  1981  this  ratio  stood  at  eighty  to  nine. 
The  temporal  increase  in  the  number  of  those  in  the  young  popu- 
lation group  has  depressed  the  median  age  of  the  population  from 
21.1  years  in  the  mid-1950s  to  19.9  years  in  1981.  The  sex  ratio 
in  1981,  defined  as  the  number  of  males  to  100  females,  was  105 
males  to  every  100  females  (see  fig.  6). 

Fertility  and  Mortality 

According  to  the  estimates  made  by  the  Central  Bureau  of  Statis- 
tics in  1985,  the  crude  birthrate  was  44  per  1,000,  and  the  crude 
death  rate  was  almost  14  per  1,000.  The  total  fertility  rate,  defined 
as  the  average  number  of  children  a  woman  might  bear,  was  6.3 


66 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

children,  with  a  variation  between  rural  and  urban  fertility  rates. 
The  rural  total  fertility  rate  was  6.4,  compared  with  5.8  for  urban 
areas.  Both  the  crude  birthrate  and  the  total  fertility  rate  have  re- 
mained high  and  fairly  constant  for  the  past  several  decades, 
whereas  the  crude  death  rate  has  been  declining  consistently,  there- 
by contributing  to  rapid  population  growth. 

The  most  significant  category  of  deaths  was  the  infant  mortality 
rate.  Varying  techniques  for  calculating  infant  mortality,  however, 
have  led  to  discrepant  estimations.  They  ranged  from  more  than 
147  deaths  per  1,000  in  1985  to  between  101  and  128  per  1,000 
in  1989.  Infant  mortality  rates  also  varied  widely  among  the  three 
geographic  regions,  which  may  have  been  partly  because  of  differing 
rates  of  migration  and  the  expectancy  that  higher  mortality  rates 
are  found  in  migrant  families.  Nonetheless,  infant  mortality  was 
almost  twice  as  high  in  rural  areas  as  urban  areas,  a  clear  indica- 
tion of  the  lack  of  health  services  in  rural  areas,  and  was  high  com- 
pared to  many  other  Asian  countries  (see  Health  Care  Facilities, 
this  ch.). 

Population  Density 

One  of  the  major  consequences  of  rapid  population  growth  was 
the  progressive  deterioration  of  the  ratio  of  people  to  land.  This 
land  shortage  greatly  affected  Nepal's  predominantly  agrarian  so- 
ciety, where  land  was  the  most  important  source  of  livelihood  and 
social  status,  and  it  was  most  evident  in  terms  of  population  den- 
sity. In  1981  the  population  density  was  102  persons  per  square 
kilometer  of  total  land.  Although  the  ratio  appears  to  suggest  a  fairly 
low  density,  the  figures  are  misleading.  When  density  is  measured 
in  terms  of  persons  per  hectare  of  cultivatable  land  (that  is,  agricul- 
tural density),  the  true  nature  of  the  human-land  ratio  emerges. 
The  agricultural  density  in  1981  was  6.1  persons  per  hectare  (or 
almost  0.2  hectare  per  person),  which  represents  a  very  high  den- 
sity, especially  given  that  the  country's  production  technology  re- 
mains in  a  backward  state  (see  table  3,  Appendix).  Nepal's  ability 
to  reclaim  more  land  in  order  to  accommodate  a  rapidly  growing 
population  already  had  reached  a  maximum  threshold. 

Urbanization 

Urbanization,  defined  as  the  percentage  of  total  population  living 
in  settlements  designated  as  urban  areas,  generally  was  viewed  as 
closely  related  to  economic  development.  If  the  correlation  between 
urbanization  and  economic  development — historically  based  on  the 
experience  of  the  industrialized  nations — is  accepted,  then  Nepal 
has  a  long  way  to  go  before  it  becomes  economically  advanced. 


67 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


AGE-GROUP 


1,000         500  0  500  1,000 

POPULATION  IN  THOUSANDS 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nepal,  National  Planning  Commission  Secretariat, 
Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Pocket  Book:  Nepal,  1988,  Kathmandu,  1988, 
26. 

Figure  6.  Nepal:  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex,  1988 

Nepal  was  one  of  the  least  urbanized  countries  in  the  world,  with 
only  6.3  percent  of  its  total  population  residing  in  urban  areas  in 
1981 .  Yet  it  appears  that  the  1971-81  decade  experienced  a  major 
growth  spurt  in  urban  population,  increasing  by  approximately  108 
percent,  at  an  annual  rate  of  more  than  8.4  percent.  The  urbani- 
zation rate  in  the  early  1990s  was  around  8  percent.  Nevertheless, 
only  twenty- three  settlements  were  designated  as  urban  areas,  and 
only  one  of  these  settlements — the  capital  city  of  Kathmandu — 
had  a  population  above  100,000.  Kathmandu  had  a  total  popula- 
tion of  slightly  more  than  235,000.  Together  with  the  other  two 
major  urban  settlements— Patan  (also  called  Lalitpur),  which  had 
about  79,800  people,  and  Bhadgaon  (also  called  Bhaktapur),  with 
about  48,500  people— the  Kathmandu  Valley  in  the  Hill  Region 


68 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

had  the  largest  concentration  of  the  total  urban  population — almost 
40  percent. 

In  terms  of  the  regional  distribution  of  these  urban  settlements, 
the  pattern  was  skewed  in  favor  of  the  Tarai.  Fourteen  of  the  twenty- 
three  settlements  were  found  there,  the  majority  located  in  eastern 
and  central  Tarai.  The  Mountain  Region  had  no  urban  settlements. 
This  situation  clearly  demonstrated  that  Nepal  not  only  remained 
predominantly  rural,  but  also  that  the  existing  urban  areas  were 
neither  well  developed  nor  well  connected  in  terms  of  their  geo- 
graphical distribution.  The  only  real  urban  network  was  found  in 
the  central  section — the  quadrangle  consisting  of  Kathmandu, 
Pokhara,  Butawal  (and  Siddhartha  Nagar),  and  Hetauda. 

Migration 

Nepal  was  once  a  sanctuary  for  waves  of  migrants  from  north 
and  south  of  its  borders.  The  early  migration  from  the  north  was 
largely  of  nomadic  Mongoloid  people  from  Tibet  (the  Bhote 
groups),  followed  by  waves  of  Indo-Aryans  from  India.  Some 
of  the  migrants  from  the  south,  especially  the  Brahmans  and  Raj- 
puts, were  fleeing  the  religious  crusades  of  invading  Mughals  (or 
Indian  Muslims)  and  their  suppression  of  Hindus;  others  (espe- 
cially those  from  Bihar  and  West  Bengal)  were  lured  by  the  possi- 
bilities of  the  Tarai  land.  As  of  1991,  a  large  number  of  Indians 
from  Bihar  and  other  neighboring  areas  still  crossed  the  border  into 
Nepal.  Most  of  those  recent  migrants  were  found  in  towns  and 
cities,  where  they  were  engaged  in  semiskilled  labor  and  mercan- 
tile activities. 

Since  at  least  the  late  nineteenth  century,  the  migration  trend 
has  reversed  its  course.  In  the  early  1990s,  there  was  a  massive 
and  persistent  outflow  of  people  from  the  hills,  the  areas  that  had 
once  served  as  a  refuge  for  migrants.  In  addition,  the  volume  of 
migration  has  been  increasing  over  time.  There  have  been  two 
major  types  of  migration.  Permanent  or  lifetime  migration  occurred 
primarily  within  the  national  boundary,  particularly  from  the  high- 
lands to  the  Tarai  Region;  it  was  motivated  by  the  search  for  land. 
Circular  migration  included  seasonal  migrants,  who  moved  to  wage- 
labor  sites,  such  as  urban  centers  and  construction  areas,  during 
the  agricultural  slack  season  (November  to  February).  These  cir- 
cular or  absentee  migrants  included  long-term  (but  not  permanent) 
migrants,  who  moved  in  search  of  long-term  salaried  employment, 
such  as  army,  government,  chaukidar  (doorman  or  guard)  services, 
or  factory  jobs.  Once  these  migrants  succeeded  in  landing  a  rela- 
tively permanent  job,  they  normally  visited  their  families  and  vil- 
lages once  every  two  to  three  years;  if  they  did  not  secure  such  a 


69 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

job,  they  might  return  in  a  few  months.  Unlike  permanent  migra- 
tion, circular  migration  was  both  internal  (within  the  country)  as 
well  as  external  (outside  the  country).  Although  internal  circular 
migrants  ultimately  might  become  permanent  migrants,  the  vast 
majority  of  external  circular  migrants,  most  of  whom  went  to  In- 
dia, returned  to  Nepal  upon  their  retirement  and  discharge  from 
service.  Increasing  numbers  of  these  external  migrants  settled  in 
the  Indian  states  of  West  Bengal  and  Assam,  and  they  have  been 
filtering  into  Bhutan  since  the  late  nineteenth  century  (see  Popu- 
lation, ch.  6). 

Lifetime  Regional  Migration 

Until  the  mid-1950s,  the  volume  of  permanent  migration  within 
the  country  was  very  small.  Since  then,  however,  there  has  been 
increased  permanent  internal  migration,  mainly  because  of  popu- 
lation pressures,  paucity  of  land  resources  in  the  hills,  and  the  im- 
plementation of  land  resettlement  programs  in  the  Tarai  Region. 
This  form  of  migration  was  identified  in  the  1981  census  as  life- 
time internal  migration. 

The  total  volume  of  lifetime  internal  migration  in  1981  was  close 
to  1,272,300  persons,  a  figure  that  represented  8.5  percent  of  the 
total  population.  The  vast  majority  of  lifetime  internal  migrants 
originated  in  the  Hill  and  Mountain  regions  and  moved  to  the  Tarai 
Region  in  search  of  land  in  a  movement  that  can  be  called  frontier 
migration  (see  table  4,  Appendix).  These  findings  confirmed  that 
the  north-south  (highland-lowland)  flows  of  migration  have  made 
a  substantial  contribution — both  directly  and  indirectly — to  the 
rapid  population  growth  of  the  Tarai  Region. 

One  of  the  major  variables  responsible  for  this  trend  was  the  Hill 
residents'  quest  for  land.  About  half  of  the  male  Hill  migrants  to 
the  Tarai  mentioned  "agriculture"  as  their  reason  for  migrating 
(see  table  5,  Appendix).  The  "not  stated  and  others"  category  also 
constituted  a  high  percentage,  probably  because  most  family  mem- 
bers who  moved  with  their  parents  or  household  heads  had  no  specif- 
ic reason  for  their  migration. 

A  high  score  for  trade  and  commerce  among  the  mountain 
migrants  might  reflect  the  fact  that  they  historically  were  deeply 
engaged  in  interregional  as  well  as  cross-border  trade  with  Tibet 
as  their  principal  economic  activity.  Because  their  traditional  trade 
and  commercial  relations  with  Tibet  had  been  largely  cut  off  be- 
cause of  political  changes  after  1950,  they  might  have  moved  to 
the  Tarai,  where  such  opportunities  were  expanding,  particularly 
in  urban  areas. 


70 


Namche  Bazar,  the  gateway  to  Khumbu,  on  the  route  to  Mount  Everest 

Courtesy  Janet  MacDonald 

The  pattern  for  female  migrants  was  generally  consistent  with 
the  pattern  for  male  migrants.  The  exception  was  female  migrants 
for  whom  marriage  as  a  reason  for  geographical  mobility  ranked 
quite  high.  This  pattern  generally  reflected  the  commonly  observed 
reality  that  female  mobility  in  Nepal  was  largely  tied  to  family  mo- 
bility (that  is,  husbands  or  parents).  Although  individual  (unmar- 
ried) female  migration  seemed  to  be  gradually  on  the  rise,  it  still 
was  quite  limited. 

Circular  Migration 

Circular  migrants,  both  internal  and  external,  were  classified 
as  absentee  population  in  the  1981  census.  The  major  difference 
between  the  two  groups  was  that  the  internal  absentee  population 
generally  consisted  of  short-term  or  seasonal  migrants.  Such 
migrants  left  the  hills  in  search  of  temporary  jobs  in  nearby  towns 
or  at  construction  sites  and  generally  returned  to  their  villages  af- 
ter the  winter  season  to  resume  farming.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
external  absentee  population  was  largely  composed  of  long-term 
migrants.  In  the  cases  of  both  types,  most  migrants  were  adult  males 
although  some  husbands  periodically  took  their  wives  with  them 
after  they  were  well  established  in  their  jobs. 


71 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

The  volume  of  circular  migration,  or  absentee  population,  has 
been  rising.  In  the  mid-1950s,  such  migration  totaled  almost 
217,000  persons,  most  coming  from  the  hills.  More  than  90  per- 
cent, or  more  than  198,000  people,  were  external  migrants;  the 
vast  majority  went  to  India.  In  1981  the  absentee  population  to- 
taled almost  591,000  people.  Of  these,  188,000  people,  or  32  per- 
cent, were  internal  migrants,  and  approximately  403,000  people, 
or  68  percent,  were  external  migrants.  Even  though  the  percent- 
age of  external  migrants  in  the  total  absentee  population  had 
declined  from  90  percent  in  the  mid-1950s  to  68  percent  in  1981, 
their  absolute  number  had  increased  by  205,000  people.  Whereas 
the  increasing  number  of  absentee  population  from  the  hills  was 
an  unmistakable  indicator  of  the  region's  deteriorating  economic 
and  environmental  conditions,  the  decreasing  percentage  of  external 
migration  in  the  total  volume  was  largely  the  result  of  the  emer- 
gence of  the  Tarai  as  an  alternative,  internal  destination. 

The  vast  majority  of  migrants  came  from  the  Hill  and  Moun- 
tain regions.  Together,  they  made  up  141,200  (85  percent)  of  the 
total  of  internal  migrants  and  about  365,000  (91  percent)  of  total 
external  migrants.  Unlike  in  the  Hill  and  Mountain  regions,  the 
majority  of  the  Tarai's  82,650  absentees  were  found  within  the 
country. 

An  analysis  of  reasons  for  absence  from  home  revealed  quite  a 
contrast  between  lifetime  internal  migration  and  circular  migra- 
tion. Service,  which  included  a  variety  of  jobs,  surfaced  as  the  most 
dominant  reason  for  being  absent  from  home  in  both  internal  and 
external  cases  of  circular  migration.  On  the  average,  64  percent 
of  external  migrants  mentioned  service  as  their  reason  for  migra- 
tion, the  highest  rate  being  posted  by  the  Hill  migrants;  28  per- 
cent gave  no  reasons,  or  other  reasons  (see  table  6,  Appendix). 

Population  Planning 

Although  Nepal's  population  continued  to  grow  at  a  rapid  pace 
in  the  face  of  deteriorating  per  capita  land  availability,  the  coun- 
try's economy  as  a  whole  remained  underdeveloped.  Economic 
growth  barely  kept  pace  with  population  growth.  Given  this  reali- 
ty, many  viewed  effective  family  planning  as  a  national  impera- 
tive. The  need  for  family  planning  was  recognized  as  early  as  1958, 
when  a  private  organization,  the  Nepal  Family  Planning  Associa- 
tion, was  established  in  Kathmandu.  Although  the  government  for- 
mally adopted  a  national  family  planning  policy  in  1965,  its 
availability  was  limited  to  the  Kathmandu  Valley  until  1968,  when 
a  semiautonomous  board  was  established.  This  Nepal  Family  Plan- 
ning and  Maternal  Child  Health  Board  was  authorized  to  formulate 


72 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

and  to  implement  family  planning  policy  and  programs  for  the  en- 
tire country.  Under  the  auspices  of  the  board,  attempts  have  been 
made  to  provide  family  planning  and  maternal- child  health  ser- 
vices outside  the  Kathmandu  Valley,  with  the  help  of  paramedics 
and  health-care  workers  who  have  some  basic  training.  As  of  1989, 
the  board  offered  family  planning  services  in  fifty-two  of  Nepal's 
seventy-five  districts.  Despite  these  efforts,  the  rural  population 
generally  lacked  access  to  family  planning  services. 

Such  services  were  provided  by  three  means:  stationary  offices, 
mobile  facilities,  and  door-to-door  campaigns.  The  stationary  offices 
generally  were  attached  to  a  health-care  institution,  such  as  health 
posts,  health  centers,  or  hospitals.  As  an  addition  to  the  staff  at 
these  institutions,  the  board  assigned  a  minimum  of  two  full-time 
workers  to  deliver  family  planning  and  maternal-child  health  ser- 
vices. However,  it  has  been  reported  that  most  health  and  family 
planning  workers  in  rural  health  posts  rarely  were  found  in  their 
assigned  units.  As  a  result,  the  availability  of  such  services  in  rural 
areas  remained  poor. 

The  mobile  facilities  were  a  product  of  necessity,  given  the  re- 
moteness of  much  of  the  population  and  the  lack  of  local  family 
planning  facilities,  or  easy  accessibility  to  such  a  facility.  They 
reached  a  large  part  of  the  country  and  almost  exclusively  stressed 
permanent  family  limitation,  that  is,  sterilization.  Mobile  sterili- 
zation camps  moved  around  the  country;  local  residents  were  noti- 
fied of  their  scheduled  arrival  in  advance  and  asked  to  take 
advantage  of  the  service.  A  few  days  or  even  weeks  prior  to  the 
arrival  of  the  camp,  a  campaign  was  launched  to  motivate  and  to 
educate  people  about  the  benefits  and  needs  of  family  planning. 
The  camp  generally  lasted  only  a  few  days,  rarely  more  than  a  week. 
Because  most  villagers  were  unwilling  to  come  to  family  planning 
centers  to  obtain  services,  the  Nepal  Family  Planning  and  Ma- 
ternal Child  Health  Board  launched  a  door-to-door  campaign  to 
educate  villagers  about  family  planning  and  to  distribute  oral  con- 
traceptives and  condoms  on  a  periodic  basis. 

The  government's  direct  expenditure  on  family  planning  in  fis- 
cal year  (FY — see  Glossary)  1985  was  about  1  percent,  or  Rs54.7 
million  (for  value  of  the  rupee — see  Glossary),  of  the  national 
budget.  In  the  same  year,  the  government  spent  almost  16.5  per- 
cent of  its  total  budget  on  health  services.  It  was  difficult  to  de- 
termine what  percentage  of  the  health  budget  was  channeled  to 
provide  family  planning  services.  Although  the  expenditure  on 
family  planning  appeared  to  be  relatively  low  given  the  gravity 
of  the  issue,  the  absolute  budget  amount  had  gone  up  significantly 
in  the  1970s  and  1980s:  from  Rs2  million  in  FY  1969,  when  the 


73 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

board  was  set  up,  to  almost  Rs55  million  in  FY  1985.  In  FY  1981, 
more  than  60  percent  of  the  board's  budget  was  borne  by  foreign 
agencies. 

In  terms  of  absolute  numbers,  the  diffusion  of  family  planning 
increased  significantly  over  two  decades.  In  FY  1969,  only  7,774 
persons  had  adopted  family  planning;  by  FY  1985,  the  number 
who  had  adopted  family  planning  had  climbed  to  almost  340,000 
persons. 

Caste  and  Ethnicity 

Ethnic  Groups 

Nepalese  society  was  ethnically  diverse  and  complex  in  the  early 
1990s,  ranging  in  phenotype  (physical  characteristics)  and  culture 
from  the  Indian  to  the  Tibetan.  Except  for  the  sizable  population 
of  those  of  Indian  birth  or  ancestry  concentrated  in  the  Tarai  bor- 
dering India,  the  varied  ethnic  groups  had  evolved  into  distinct 
patterns  over  time. 

Political  scientists  Joshi  and  Rose  broadly  classify  the  Nepalese 
population  into  three  major  ethnic  groups  in  terms  of  their  origin: 
Indo-Nepalese,  Tibeto-Nepalese,  and  indigenous  Nepalese.  In  the 
case  of  the  first  two  groups,  the  direction  of  their  migration  and 
Nepal's  landscapes  appeared  to  have  led  to  their  vertical  distribu- 
tion; most  ethnic  groups  were  found  at  particular  altitudes.  The 
first  group,  comprising  those  of  Indo-Nepalese  origin,  inhabited 
the  more  fertile  lower  hills,  river  valleys,  and  Tarai  plains.  The 
second  major  group  consisted  of  communities  of  Tibeto-Mongol 
origin  occupying  the  higher  hills  from  the  west  to  the  east.  The 
third  and  much  smaller  group  comprised  a  number  of  tribal  com- 
munities, such  as  the  Tharus  and  the  Dhimals  of  the  Tarai;  they 
may  be  remnants  of  indigenous  communities  whose  habitation  pre- 
dates the  advent  of  Indo-Nepalese  and  Tibeto-Mongol  elements. 

Even  though  Indo-Nepalese  migrants  were  latecomers  to  Nepal 
relative  to  the  migrants  from  the  north,  they  have  come  to  dominate 
the  country  not  only  numerically,  but  also  socially,  politically,  and 
economically.  They  managed  to  achieve  early  dominance  over  the 
native  and  northern  migrant  populations,  largely  because  of  the 
superior  formal  educational  and  technological  systems  they  brought 
with  them.  Consequently,  their  overall  domination  has  had  tremen- 
dous significance  in  terms  of  ethnic  power  structure. 

Within  the  Indo-Nepalese  group,  at  least  two  distinct  categories 
can  be  discerned.  The  first  category  includes  those  who  fled  India 
and  moved  to  the  safe  sanctuaries  of  the  Nepal  hills  several  hundred 
years  ago,  in  the  wake  of  the  Muslim  invasions  of  northern  India. 


74 


Terracing  in  the  Rapti 
Valley,  between 
Tulsipur  and  Salyan 
Courtesy 
John  N.  Gunning 


The  hill  group  of  Indian  origin  primarily  was  composed  of  descen- 
dants of  high-caste  Hindu  families.  According  to  Joshi  and  Rose, 
"These  families,  mostly  of  Brahman  and  Kshatriya  status,  have 
spread  through  the  whole  of  Nepal  with  the  exception  of  the  areas 
immediately  adjacent  to  the  northern  border.  They  usually  con- 
stitute a  significant  portion  of  the  local  elites  and  are  frequently 
the  largest  landowners  in  an  area."  This  segment  of  the  Indo- 
Nepalese  population,  at  the  apex  of  which  stands  the  nation's  roy- 
al family,  has  played  the  most  dominant  role  in  the  country.  Other 
ethnic  groups,  including  those  of  Indian  origin  that  settled  in  the 
Tarai,  have  been  peripheral  to  the  political  power  structure. 

The  second  group  of  Indo-Nepalese  migrants  includes  the  in- 
habitants of  the  Tarai.  Many  of  them  are  relatively  recent  migrants, 
who  were  encouraged  by  the  government  of  Nepal  or  its  agents 
to  move  into  the  Tarai  for  settlement  during  the  nineteenth  and 
early  twentieth  centuries.  In  the  early  1990s,  this  group  mostly  con- 
sisted of  landless  tenants  and  peasants  from  northern  India's  border 
states  of  Bihar  and  Bengal.  Some  of  these  Indian  migrants  later 
became  large  landowners. 

The  north  Indian  antecedents  of  a  number  of  caste  groups  in 
the  hills  (that  is,  the  first  group  of  Indo-Nepalese  migrants),  which, 
in  the  early  1990s,  made  up  more  than  50  percent  of  the  total  popu- 
lation, are  evident  in  their  language,  religion,  social  organization, 
and  physical  appearance.  All  of  these  features,  however,  have  been 


75 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

modified  in  the  Nepalese  environment.  These  groups — several 
castes  of  Brahmans,  the  high-ranking  Thakuri  and  Chhetri  (the 
Nepalese  derivative  of  the  Kshatriya)  castes,  and  an  untouchable 
category— generally  are  classified  as  Pahari,  or  Parbate.  However, 
in  most  parts  of  Nepal  (except  in  the  Tarai),  the  term  pahari  has 
only  a  limited  use  in  that  the  Paharis  generally  are  known  by  their 
individual  caste  names  (see  Caste  and  Ethnicity,  this  ch.). 

Nepali,  the  native  tongue  of  the  Paharis  and  the  national  lan- 
guage of  Nepal,  is  closely  related  to,  but  by  no  means  identical 
with,  Hindi.  Both  are  rooted  in  Sanskrit.  The  Hinduism  of  the 
Pahari  has  been  influenced  by  Buddhism  and  indigenous  folk  be- 
lief. The  Paharis'  caste  system  was  neither  as  elaborately  graded 
nor  as  all  embracing  in  its  sanctions  as  that  of  the  Indians;  physi- 
cally, many  of  the  Paharis  showed  the  results  of  racial  intermix- 
ture with  the  various  Mongoloid  groups  of  the  region.  Similarly, 
the  Bhote  or  Bhotia  groups  inhabiting  the  foothills  of  the 
Himalayas — among  whom  the  Sherpas  have  attracted  the  most  at- 
tention in  the  mountaineering  world — have  developed  regional  dis- 
tinctions among  themselves,  although  clearly  related  physically  as 
well  as  culturally  to  the  Tibetans.  The  term  Bhote  literally  means 
inhabitant  of  Bhot,  a  Sanskrit  term  for  the  trans- Himalayan  region 
of  Nepal,  or  the  Tibetan  region.  However,  Bhote  is  also  a  generic 
term,  often  applied  to  people  of  Tibetan  culture  or  Mongoloid 
phenotype.  As  used  by  the  Paharis  and  the  Newars,  it  often  had 
a  pejorative  connotation  and  could  be  applied  to  any  non-Hindu 
of  Mongoloid  appearance. 

An  extraordinarily  complex  terrain  also  affected  the  geographic 
distribution  and  interaction  among  various  ethnic  groups  (see  fig. 
7).  Within  the  general  latitudinal  sorting  of  Indo-Nepalese  (lower 
hills)  and  Tibeto-Nepalese  (higher  hills  and  mountains)  groups, 
there  was  a  lateral  (longitudinal)  pattern,  in  which  various  ethnic 
populations  were  concentrated  in  specific  geographic  pockets.  The 
deeply  cut  valleys  and  high  ridges  tended  to  divide  ethnic  groups 
into  many  small,  relatively  isolated,  and  more  or  less  self-contained 
communities.  This  pattern  was  especially  prominent  among  the 
Tibeto-Nepalese  population.  For  example,  the  Bhote  group  was 
found  in  the  far  north,  trans-Himalayan  section  of  the  Mountain 
Region,  close  to  the  Tibetan  border.  The  Sherpas,  a  subgroup 
within  the  Bhote,  were  concentrated  in  the  northeast,  around  the 
Mount  Everest  area.  To  the  south  of  their  areas  were  other  Tibeto- 
Nepalese  ethnic  groups — the  Gurung  in  the  west-central  hills  and 
the  Tamang  and  Rai  in  the  east-central  hills — particularly  close 
to  and  east  of  the  Kathmandu  Valley.  The  Magar  group,  found 
largely  in  the  central  hills,  was  much  more  widely  distributed  than 


76 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

the  Gurung,  Tamang,  and  Rai.  In  the  areas  occupied  by  the  Limbu 
and  Rai  peoples,  the  Limbu  domain  was  located  farther  east  in 
the  hills,  just  beyond  the  Rai  zone.  The  Tharu  group  was  found 
in  the  Tarai,  and  the  Paharis  were  scattered  throughout  Nepal. 
Newars  largely  were  concentrated  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley. 
However,  because  of  their  past  migration  as  traders  and  merchants, 
they  also  were  found  in  virtually  all  the  market  centers,  especially 
in  the  hills,  and  as  far  away  as  Lhasa  in  Tibet. 

This  geographically  concentrated  ethnic  distribution  pattern 
generally  remained  in  effect  in  the  early  1990s,  despite  a  trend 
toward  increasing  spatial  mobility  and  relocating  ethnic  popula- 
tions. For  example,  a  large  number  of  Bhotes  (also  called  Mananges 
from  the  Manang  District)  in  the  central  section  of  the  Mountain 
Region,  Tamangs,  and  Sherpas  have  moved  to  the  Kathmandu 
Valley.  Similarly,  Thakalis  from  the  Mustang  District  adjacent  to 
Manang  have  moved  to  Pokhara,  a  major  urban  center  in  the  hills 
about  160  kilometers  west  of  Kathmandu,  and  to  Butawal  and  Sid- 
dhartha  Nagar,  two  important  urban  areas  in  the  central  part  of 
the  Tarai,  directly  south  of  Pokhara.  Gurungs,  Magars,  and  Rais 
also  have  become  increasingly  dispersed. 

Most  of  the  Indo-Nepalese  peoples — both  Paharis  and  Tarai 
dwellers  (commonly  known  among  the  Paharis  as  madhesis,  mean- 
ing midlanders) — were  primarily  agriculturalists,  although  a  majority 
of  them  also  relied  on  other  activities  to  produce  supplementary 
income.  They  generally  raised  some  farm  animals,  particularly 
water  buffalo,  cows,  goats,  and  sheep,  for  domestic  purposes.  The 
Paharis  traditionally  have  occupied  the  vast  majority  of  civil  ser- 
vice positions.  As  a  result,  they  have  managed  to  dominate  and 
to  control  Nepal's  bureaucracy  to  their  advantage.  It  was  not  until 
the  1980s  that  a  prime  minister  came  from  the  non-Pahari  segment 
of  the  population.  Despite  some  loosening  of  the  total  Pahari  domi- 
nation of  the  bureaucracy  in  recent  years,  a  1991  newspaper  report, 
summarized  in  the  Nepal  Press  Digest,  revealed  that  80  percent  of 
the  posts  in  the  civil  service,  the  army,  and  the  police  still  were 
held  by  the  Brahmans  and  Chhetris  of  the  hills,  who  comprised 
less  than  50  percent  of  the  population;  13  percent  were  held  by 
Kathmandu  Valley  Newars,  whose  share  of  the  total  population 
was  merely  3  percent.  The  report  added  that  even  in  1991,  the 
eleven-member  Council  of  Ministers  had  six  Brahmans  and  three 
Newars.  Furthermore,  six  of  the  nine-member  Constitution  Recom- 
mendation Commission,  which  drafted  the  new  constitution  in 
1990,  were  hill  Brahmans  (see  The  Constitution  of  1990,  ch.  4). 
In  spite  of  the  increasing  number  of  Newars  holding  government 
jobs,  they  traditionally  were  recognized  as  a  commercial  merchant 


77 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


78 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

and  handicraft  class.  It  was  no  exaggeration  that  they  historically 
have  been  the  prime  agents  of  Nepalese  culture  and  art.  A  signifi- 
cant number  of  them  also  were  engaged  in  farming.  In  that  sense, 
they  can  be  described  as  agro-commercialists. 

Most  of  the  Tibeto-Nepalese  groups  traditionally  could  be  con- 
sidered agro-pastoralists.  Because  their  physical  environment  offered 
only  limited  land  and  agricultural  possibilities,  the  Tibeto-Nepalese 
groups  who  occupied  the  high  mountainous  areas,  such  as  the  Bhote 
and  particularly  the  Sherpa,  were  almost  forced  to  rely  more  on 
herding  and  pastoral  activities  than  on  crop  farming.  They  also 
participated  in  seasonal  trading  activity  to  supplement  their  income 
and  food  supply.  However,  those  peoples  inhabiting  the  medium 
and  low  hills  south  of  the  high  mountains — particularly  the  Gurung, 
Magar,  Tamang,  Rai,  and  Limbu  groups — depended  on  farming 
and  herding  in  relatively  equal  amounts  because  their  environment 
was  relatively  more  suitable  for  agriculture.  Among  these  groups, 
the  Gurung,  Magar,  and  Rai  historically  have  supplied  the  bulk 
of  the  famous  Gurkha  (see  Glossary)  contingents  to  the  British  and 
Indian  armies,  although  their  ranks  have  been  augmented  from 
the  Thakuri  and  Chhetri  castes  of  the  Indo-Nepalese  Paharis  (see 
Origins  of  the  Legendary  Gurkha,  ch.  5).  The  term  Gurkha  was 
derived  from  the  name  of  the  former  principality  of  Gorkha,  about 
seventy  kilometers  west  of  Kathmandu,  and  was  not  an  ethnic  desig- 
nation. 

The  Caste  System 

One  integral  aspect  of  Nepalese  society  is  the  existence  of  the 
Hindu  caste  system,  modeled  after  the  ancient  and  orthodox  Brah- 
manic  system  of  the  Indian  plains.  The  caste  system  did  not  exist 
prior  to  the  arrival  of  Indo- Aryans.  Its  establishment  became  the 
basis  of  the  emergence  of  the  feudalistic  economic  structure  of 
Nepal:  the  high-caste  Hindus  began  to  appropriate  lands — 
particularly  lowlands  that  were  more  easily  accessible,  more  cul- 
tivatable,  and  more  productive — including  those  belonging  to  the 
existing  tribal  people,  and  introduced  the  system  of  individual 
ownership.  Even  though  the  cultural  and  religious  rigidity  of  the 
caste  system  slowly  has  been  eroding,  its  introduction  into  Nepal 
was  one  of  the  most  significant  influences  stemming  from  the  migra- 
tion of  the  Indo- Aryan  people  into  the  hills.  The  migrants  from 
the  north  later  were  incorporated  into  the  Hindu  caste  system,  as 
defined  by  Indo- Aryan  migrants,  who  quickly  controlled  the  posi- 
tions of  power  and  authority.  Tibetan  migrants  did  not  practice 
private  ownership;  their  system  was  based  on  communal  ownership. 


79 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

No  single,  widely  acceptable  definition  can  be  advanced  for  the 
caste  system.  Bishop  and  others,  however,  view  caste  as  a  multi- 
faceted  status  hierarchy  composed  of  all  members  of  society,  with 
each  individual  ranked  within  the  broad,  fourfold  Hindu  class  (varna, 
or  color)  divisions,  or  within  the  fifth  class  of  untouchables — 
outcastes  and  the  socially  polluted.  The  fourfold  caste  divisions  are 
Brahman  (priests  and  scholars),  Kshatriya  or  Chhetri  (rulers  and 
warriors),  Vaisya  (or  Vaisaya,  merchants  and  traders),  and  Sudra 
(farmers,  artisans,  and  laborers).  These  Pahari  caste  divisions  based 
on  the  Hindu  system  are  not  strictly  upheld  by  the  Newars.  They 
have  their  own  caste  hierarchy,  which,  they  claim,  is  parallel  in 
caste  divisions  to  the  Pahari  Hindu  system.  In  each  system,  each 
caste  (jati)  is  ideally  an  endogamous  group  in  which  membership 
is  both  hereditary  and  permanent.  The  only  way  to  change  caste 
status  is  to  undergo  Sanskritization.  Sanskritization  can  be  achieved 
by  migrating  to  a  new  area  and  by  changing  one's  caste  status 
and/or  marrying  across  the  caste  line,  which  can  lead  to  the  up- 
grading or  downgrading  of  caste,  depending  on  the  spouse's  caste. 
However,  given  the  rigidity  of  the  caste  system,  intercaste  mar- 
riage carries  a  social  stigma,  especially  when  it  takes  place  between 
two  castes  at  the  extreme  ends  of  the  social  spectrum. 

As  Bishop  further  asserts,  at  the  core  of  the  caste  structure  is 
a  rank  order  of  values  bound  up  in  concepts  of  ritual  status,  puri- 
ty, and  pollution.  Furthermore,  caste  determines  an  individual's 
behavior,  obligations,  and  expectations.  All  the  social,  economic, 
religious,  legal,  and  political  activities  of  a  caste  society  are 
prescribed  by  sanctions  that  determine  and  limit  access  to  land, 
position  of  political  power,  and  command  of  human  labor.  Within 
such  a  constrictive  system,  wealth,  political  power,  high  rank,  and 
privilege  converge;  hereditary  occupational  specialization  is  a  com- 
mon feature.  Nevertheless,  caste  is  functionally  significant  only 
when  viewed  in  a  regional  or  local  context  and  at  a  particular  time. 
The  assumed  correlation  between  the  caste  hierarchy  and  the 
socioeconomic  class  hierarchy  does  not  always  hold.  Because  of 
numerous  institutional  changes  over  the  years  and  increased  dilu- 
tion (or  expansion)  of  the  caste  hierarchy  stemming  from  inter- 
caste marriages,  many  poor  high-caste  and  rich  low-caste  households 
could  be  found  in  the  society  in  1991. 

Although  Paharis,  especially  those  in  rural  areas,  were  general- 
ly quite  conscious  of  their  caste  status,  the  question  of  caste  did 
not  usually  arise  for  Tibeto-Nepalese  communities  unless  they  were 
aware  of  the  Hindu  caste  status  arbitrarily  assigned  to  them.  Inso- 
far as  they  accepted  caste-based  notions  of  social  rank,  the  Tibeto- 
Nepalese  tended  not  only  to  see  themselves  at  a  higher  level  than 


80 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

did  the  Hindu  Pahari  and  Newar,  but  also  differed  as  to  ranking 
among  themselves.  Thus,  it  was  doubtful  that  the  reported  Rai 
caste's  assumption  of  rank  superiority  over  the  Magar  and  Gurung 
castes  was  accepted  by  the  two  latter  groups.  Moreover,  the  status 
of  a  particular  group  was  apt  to  vary  from  place  to  place,  depend- 
ing on  its  relative  demographic  size,  wealth,  and  local  power. 

Language 

Even  though  Nepali  (written  in  Devanagari  script,  the  same  as 
Sanskrit  and  Hindi)  was  the  national  language  and  was  mentioned 
as  the  mother  tongue  by  approximately  58  percent  of  the  popula- 
tion, there  were  several  other  languages  and  dialects.  Other  lan- 
guages included  Maithili,  Bhojpuri,  Tharu,  Tamang,  Newari,  and 
Abadhi.  Non-Nepali  languages  and  dialects  rarely  were  spoken  out- 
side their  ethnic  enclaves.  In  order  to  estimate  the  numerical  dis- 
tribution of  different  ethnic  groups,  the  census  data  indicating 
various  mother  tongues  spoken  in  the  country  must  be  used  (see 
table  7,  Appendix). 

In  terms  of  linguistic  roots,  Nepali,  Maithili,  and  Bhojpuri  be- 
longed to  the  Indo-European  family;  the  mother  tongues  of  the 
Tibeto-Nepalese  groups,  including  Newari,  belonged  predominant- 
ly to  the  Tibeto-Burman  family.  The  Pahari,  whose  mother  tongue 
was  Nepali,  was  the  largest  ethnic  group.  If  the  Maithili-  and 
Bhojpuri- speaking  populations  of  the  Tarai  were  included,  more 
than  75  percent  of  the  population  belonged  to  the  Indo-Nepalese 
ethnic  group.  Only  three  other  ethnic  groups — the  Tamang,  the 
Tharu,  and  the  Newar — approached  or  slightly  exceeded  the  one- 
half  million  population  mark.  Most  of  those  non-Nepali  linguistic 
and  ethnic  population  groups  were  closely  knit  by  bonds  of  nation- 
alism and  cultural  harmony,  and  they  were  concentrated  in  cer- 
tain areas. 

Social  System  and  Values 

In  the  mid-twentieth  century,  Nepal  remained  gripped  in  a 
feudalistic  socioeconomic  structure  despite  the  influence  of  Western 
popular  culture,  growing  commercialization,  and  some  penetra- 
tion of  capitalism.  The  first  challenge  to  this  feudalistic  power  struc- 
ture came  in  1950-51,  when  the  Rana  autocracy  was  overthrown 
by  the  popular  democratic  movement  that  restored  the  authority 
of  the  monarchy  (see  Rana  Rule,  ch.  1). 

There  was  no  popularly  elected  government  until  1959.  During 
his  reign,  King  Mahendra  Bir  Bikram  Shah  Dev  frequentiy  changed 
the  government,  pitting  one  ruling  clan  against  another  in  a  man- 
ner clearly  reminiscent  of  Shah  politics  prior  to  the  rise  of  Rana 


81 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

rule  (see  The  Democratic  Experiment,  ch.  1).  He  also  reconstitut- 
ed the  system  of  palace  patronage,  replacing  the  system  of  Rana 
patronage.  The  Ranas,  however,  firmly  controlled  the  armed  forces 
(see  Armed  forces  and  Society,  ch.  5). 

In  December  1960,  King  Mahendra  launched  a  palace  coup 
against  the  popularly  elected  government  of  Prime  Minister  Bish- 
weshwar  Prasad  (B.P.)  Koirala  and  reestablished  his  absolute 
monarchical  rule  under  the  banner  of  the  partyless  panchayat  (see 
Glossary)  system  (see  Political  Dynamics,  ch.  4).  Until  early  1990, 
the  panchayat  system,  strictly  controlled  by  the  palace,  remained 
firmly  in  place.  The  transition  to  a  new  social  order  was  stymied; 
society  remained  entrenched  in  a  feudalistic  structure. 

There  was,  however,  a  tide  of  Western  popular  culture  and  com- 
mercialization sweeping  over  Nepal.  In  the  1960s  and  1970s,  many 
Westerners,  so-called  hippies,  were  attracted  to  Nepal,  looking  for 
inexpensive  marijuana  and  hashish.  Nepal  suddenly  emerged  as 
a  "hippie  Shangri-la. ' '  There  were  no  laws  or  legal  restrictions  on 
the  sale  and  purchase  of  such  drugs,  and  they  could  be  used  openly. 
In  fact,  some  Westerners  thought  the  Nepalese  were  generally  happy 
and  content  because  they  were  always  high.  Although  this  view 
was  a  distortion,  nonetheless  it  was  very  common  to  see  elderly 
Nepalese  men  smoking  marijuana,  invariably  mixed  with  tobac- 
co, in  public.  Marijuana  plants  grew  almost  everywhere;  some- 
times they  were  found  growing  even  along  main  streets.  Locally 
produced  hashish  also  was  widely  consumed,  particularly  during 
festivals  celebrated  by  some  ethnic  groups  and  tribes.  It  was, 
however,  very  unusual  for  a  Nepalese  to  develop  a  marijuana  or 
hashish  habit  until  reaching  about  forty  years  of  age. 

By  the  late  1980s,  the  situation  had  changed  dramatically.  There 
was  an  emerging  drug  subculture  in  the  urban  areas,  and  a  num- 
ber of  youths,  including  college  and  high  school  students,  sold  and 
consumed  drugs.  Many  of  these  youths  had  gone  beyond  using 
marijuana  and  hashish  to  more  potent  drugs,  such  as  "crack"  and 
cocaine — drugs  unheard  of  in  the  past.  In  the  1960s,  Westerners 
had  sought  release  from  the  overbearing  materialism  of  developed 
countries;  they  copied  the  Nepalese  (and  other  Easterners)  who 
smoked  marijuana  and  hashish.  Ironically,  in  the  1980s  and  1990s, 
it  was  Nepalese  youths  who  were  enchanted  by  the  North  Ameri- 
can material  and  drug  culture.  There  were  an  estimated  20,000 
heroin  addicts  in  1989.  In  response  to  the  drug  situation  in  the  coun- 
try, in  the  late  1980s  the  government  initiated  antinarcotics  mea- 
sures and  narcotics  training,  and  King  Birendra  Bir  Bikram  Shah 
Dev  directed  extensive  media  attention  to  narcotics  abuse.  The 


82 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

effectiveness  of  the  battle  against  narcotics,  however,  was  limited 
by  the  lack  of  an  official  government  body  to  target  drug  abuse. 

Rural  Society  and  Kinship 

Nepal  in  the  early  1990s  was  predominantly  a  rural-agricultural 
society,  where  more  than  90  percent  of  the  people  lived  in  rural 
areas  and  depended  on  farming  as  a  source  of  livelihood.  Even  in 
settlements  designated  as  urban  areas,  the  rural-urban  distinction 
easily  was  blurred;  approximately  50  percent  of  urbanites  outside 
the  three  cities  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley  were  engaged  in  farm- 
ing for  their  livelihood.  Even  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley  cities,  30 
to  40  percent  of  city  dwellers  were  agriculturalists.  In  this  sense, 
most  urban  areas  were  economic  extensions  of  rural  areas,  but  with 
an  urban  manifestation  and  a  commercial  component.  Farming 
was  the  dominant  order  of  society  and  the  mainstay  of  the  econo- 
my, a  situation  that  was  unlikely  to  change,  given  the  extremely 
sluggish  pace  of  economic  transformation. 

The  basic  social  unit  in  a  village  was  the  family,  or  paribar,  con- 
sisting of  a  patrilineally  extended  household.  The  extended  family 
system  should  not,  however,  be  construed  as  a  necessarily  harmoni- 
ous form  of  village  life.  Many  extended  families  broke  apart  as  sons 
separated  from  parents  and  brothers  from  each  other.  At  the  time 
of  separation,  the  family  property  was  equally  divided  among  the 
sons.  If  parents  were  alive,  they  each  received  a  share.  Family  sepa- 
ration generally  occurred  in  cases  where  the  head  of  the  household 
was  less  assertive  and  domineering,  when  the  father  died,  or  when 
all  the  sons  married.  Unmarried  sons  normally  did  not  separate 
from  their  parents;  if  the  parents  were  deceased,  unmarried  sons 
usually  stayed  with  their  older  brothers.  Because  family  separa- 
tion always  resulted  in  a  division  of  family  landholdings,  landhold- 
ings  were  extremely  fragmented,  both  geographically  and  socially. 
Sometimes,  family  separation  and  resulting  land  fragmentation 
turned  into  a  bitter  feud  and  led  to  legal  disputes. 

Beyond  the  immediate  family,  there  existed  a  larger  kinship  net- 
work that  occasionally  involved  sharing  food.  This  network  also 
was  an  important  means  of  meeting  farm  labor  needs,  especially 
during  the  planting  and  harvesting  seasons,  when  labor  shortages 
were  common. 

Above  the  kinship  network  was  the  village,  which  functioned  as 
a  broader  unit  of  social  existence.  Some  villages  were  no  more  than 
hamlets  made  up  of  just  a  few  houses;  others  were  sizable  commu- 
nities of  several  neighboring  hamlets.  In  more  populous  villages, 
the  caste  groups  contained  occupational  low  (untouchable)  caste 
groups,  such  as  the  Kami  (ironsmiths  who  make  tools),  the  Sarki 


83 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

(leathersmiths),  and  the  Damai  (tailors  and  musicians),  who  ful- 
filled the  vital  basic  needs  of  the  village  as  a  fairly  self-contained 
production  unit. 

Villagers  occasionally  pooled  their  resources  and  labored  together 
to  implement  village-level  projects,  such  as  building  irrigation 
ditches,  or  channels,  or  facilities  for  drinking  water.  If  a  house- 
hold could  afford  to  hire  farm  labor,  it  usually  relied  on  the  mutual 
labor- sharing  system  called  parma,  which  allowed  villagers  to  ex- 
change labor  for  labor  at  times  of  need. 

Although  farming  traditionally  ranked  among  the  most  desirable 
occupations,  villagers  frequently  encouraged  some  of  their  children 
to  leave  in  search  of  civil  service,  army,  and  other  employment 
opportunities.  Individual  migration  was  often  the  result  of  a  family 
decision  and  an  important  economic  strategy;  it  not  only  served 
as  a  safety  valve  for  growing  population  pressures  but  also  gener- 
ated cash  incomes,  thereby  averting  any  undue  economic  crises 
in  the  family.  Well-to-do  village  families  usually  pushed  their  chil- 
dren to  obtain  civil  service  jobs  as  a  means  of  climbing  the 
bureaucratic  ladder  and  of  developing  valuable  connections  with 
the  elite  political  structure. 

Farming  was  the  most  important  source  of  livelihood  in  rural 
areas,  but  the  scarcity  of  land  placed  severe  constraints  on  agricul- 
tural development.  Landholding  was  the  most  important  basis  for, 
or  criterion  of,  socioeconomic  stratification.  The  1981  agricultur- 
al census  data  identifies  five  classes  of  peasantry:  landless  and  nearly 
landless,  people  with  no  land  or  less  than  half  a  hectare;  subsistence, 
those  with  half  a  hectare  to  one  hectare;  small,  holders  of  one  to 
three  hectares;  medium,  people  with  three  to  five  hectares;  and 
large,  farmers  of  more  than  five  hectares  (see  table  8,  Appendix). 

In  terms  of  production  relations,  the  first  two  classes  were  de- 
pendent on  large  landowners  for  survival.  Small  landowners,  on 
the  other  hand,  were  relatively  independent;  they  did  not  have  to 
depend  on  the  large  landowning  class  for  survival,  especially  if  they 
were  involved  in  circular  migration  as  a  source  of  supplementary 
cash  income.  Nor  did  they  regularly  employ  members  of  the  first 
two  classes.  Landowners  of  medium- sized  plots  were  independent 
of  large  landowners.  Their  engagement  in  wage  laboring  or  tenancy 
farming  was  sporadic,  if  present  at  all.  In  some  cases,  they  em- 
ployed others  during  peak  farming  seasons.  The  large  landown- 
ing class  regularly  employed  farm  workers  and  benefited  from  the 
existence  of  excess  labor,  which  kept  wages  low.  In  general,  the 
situation  of  landholders  was  exacerbated  by  the  archaic  nature  of 
farming  technology  and  the  absence  of  other  resources.  It  there- 
fore was  not  surprising  that  rural  poverty  was  widespread. 


84 


A  deforested  area, 
a  typical  scene  in  Nepal 


Demands  for  fuelwood 
and  fodder  contribute  to 
the  deforestation  problem. 

Courtesy  United  States 
Agency  for  International 
Development 


85 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Women's  Status  and  Role  in  Society 

The  United  Nations  has  defined  the  status  of  women  in  the  con- 
text of  their  access  to  knowledge,  economic  resources,  and  politi- 
cal power,  as  well  as  their  personal  autonomy  in  the  process  of 
decision  making.  When  Nepalese  women's  status  is  analyzed  in 
this  light,  the  picture  is  generally  bleak.  In  the  early  1990s,  Nepal 
was  a  rigidly  patriarchical  society.  In  virtually  every  aspect  of  life, 
women  were  generally  subordinate  to  men. 

Women's  relative  status,  however,  varied  from  one  ethnic  group 
to  another.  The  status  of  women  in  Tibeto-Nepalese  communities 
generally  was  relatively  better  than  that  of  Pahari  and  Newari  wom- 
en. Women  from  the  low  caste  groups  also  enjoyed  relatively  more 
autonomy  and  freedom  than  Pahari  and  Newari  women. 

The  senior  female  member  played  a  commanding  role  within  the 
family  by  controlling  resources,  making  crucial  planting  and  har- 
vesting decisions,  and  determining  the  expenses  and  budget  allo- 
cations. Yet  women's  lives  remained  centered  on  their  traditional 
roles — taking  care  of  most  household  chores,  fetching  water  and 
animal  fodder,  and  doing  farm  work.  Their  standing  in  society  was 
mostly  contingent  on  their  husbands'  and  parents'  social  and  eco- 
nomic positions.  They  had  limited  access  to  markets,  productive  ser- 
vices, education,  health  care,  and  local  government.  Malnutrition 
and  poverty  hit  women  hardest.  Female  children  usually  were  given 
less  food  than  male  children,  especially  when  the  family  experienced 
food  shortages.  Women  usually  worked  harder  and  longer  than  men. 
By  contrast,  women  from  high-class  families  had  maids  to  take  care 
of  most  household  chores  and  other  menial  work  and  thus  worked 
far  less  than  men  or  women  in  lower  socioeconomic  groups. 

The  economic  contribution  of  women  was  substantial,  but  largely 
unnoticed  because  their  traditional  role  was  taken  for  granted.  When 
employed,  their  wages  normally  were  25  percent  less  than  those  paid 
to  men.  In  most  rural  areas,  their  employment  outside  the  house- 
hold generally  was  limited  to  planting,  weeding,  and  harvesting. 
In  urban  areas,  they  were  employed  in  domestic  and  traditional  jobs, 
as  well  as  in  the  government  sector,  mostly  in  low-level  positions. 

One  tangible  measure  of  women's  status  was  their  educational 
attainment.  Although  the  constitution  offers  women  equal  educa- 
tional opportunities,  many  social,  economic,  and  cultural  factors 
contributed  to  lower  enrollment  and  higher  dropout  rates  for  girls. 
Illiteracy  imposed  the  greatest  hindrance  to  enhancing  equal  oppor- 
tunity and  status  for  women.  They  were  caught  in  a  vicious  circle 
imposed  by  the  patriarchical  society.  Their  lower  status  hindered 


86 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

their  education,  and  the  lack  of  education,  in  turn,  constricted  their 
status  and  position  (see  Education  since  1951,  this  ch.).  Although 
the  female  literacy  rate  has  improved  noticeably  over  the  years, 
the  level  in  the  early  1990s  fell  far  short  of  the  male  level. 

The  level  of  educational  attainment  among  female  children  of 
wealthy  and  educated  families  was  much  higher  than  that  among 
female  children  of  poor  families.  This  class  disparity  in  education- 
al attainment  was  also  true  for  boys.  In  Nepal,  as  in  many  socie- 
ties, education  was  heavily  class-biased  (see  Education,  this  ch.). 

In  the  early  1990s,  a  direct  correlation  existed  between  the  level 
of  education  and  status.  Educated  women  had  access  to  relatively 
high-status  positions  in  the  government  and  private  service  sec- 
tors, and  they  had  a  much  higher  status  than  uneducated  women. 
This  general  rule  was  more  applicable  at  the  societal  level  than  at 
the  household  level.  Within  the  family,  an  educated  woman  did 
not  necessarily  hold  a  higher  status  than  her  uneducated  counter- 
part. Also  within  the  family,  a  woman's  status,  especially  a 
daughter-in-law's  status,  was  more  closely  tied  to  her  husband's 
authority  and  to  her  parental  family's  wealth  and  status  than  any- 
thing else. 

Social  Classes  and  Stratification 

In  terms  of  differences  in  wealth  and  access  to  political  power, 
Nepalese  society  could  be  divided  into  a  small  ruling  elite;  a  grow- 
ing, intermediate-sized  group  of  government  officials,  large  land- 
holders, and  merchants;  and  the  vast  majority  of  the  population, 
consisting  of  a  peasant  base.  These  divisions  are  descriptive,  func- 
tional class  categories  rather  than  social  class  entities  based  on  the 
Marxian  concept  of  the  social  relations  of  production.  In  a  way, 
all  three  classes  were  a  long  continuum  in  Nepal's  social  structure 
because  most  members  of  the  ruling  elite  and  government  func- 
tionaries had  their  direct  roots  in  the  rural  landed  class,  which  was 
one  stratum  of  the  farming  population. 

Even  though  the  agricultural  sector  as  a  whole  faced  similar  eco- 
nomic and  technological  circumstances,  it  was  diverse  and  contained 
several  strata  in  landholding,  relative  economic  dependence,  and 
independence  (see  Rural  Society  and  Kinship,  this  ch.).  The  nu- 
merically small  intermediate  stratum  of  the  farmers  was  only  slighdy 
less  diverse  than  the  rest  of  the  rural  population  in  terms  of  mem- 
bers' ethnic  and  geographical  backgrounds.  The  relative  econom- 
ic and  educational  advantages  of  this  group  and  its  occupational 
activities,  however,  made  its  members  relatively  homogeneous  in 
terms  of  shared  interest.  They  generally  aspired  to  achieve  a  middle- 
or  elite-class  status. 


87 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

The  smallest  and  least  diverse  of  the  three  categories  was  the 
ruling  elite,  largely  composed  of  high-caste,  educated  Paharis, 
namely  different  strata  of  Brahmans  and  Chhetris.  At  the  zenith 
of  this  class  was  the  monarch,  whose  authority  was  derived  from 
the  orthodox  Hindu  contention  that  the  king  was  the  reincarna- 
tion of  Vishnu,  whose  assigned  role  in  the  Hindu  trinity  is  protec- 
tion. The  monarch's  authority  was  not  based  on  electoral  support. 

The  continued  expansion  of  the  bureaucracy  was  a  direct  response 
to  a  consistent  increase  in  the  educated  population.  Because  of  the 
lack  of  development,  a  large  number  of  educated  people  failed  to 
find  gainful  employment  upon  graduation.  Because  they  constituted 
the  most  potent  revolutionary  force,  and  happened  to  be  geographi- 
cally concentrated  in  urban  centers,  the  ruling  class  was  almost  com- 
pelled to  absorb  them  into  an  already  bloated  bureaucracy  in  order 
to  neutralize  any  sociopolitical  disturbance  they  might  cause. 

In  the  1980s,  a  significant  number  of  college-  and  university- 
educated  people  residing  in  Kathmandu  Valley  cities  discovered 
a  second  employment  outlet.  Development  consultant  firms  and 
associated  services  have  emerged  throughout  Kathmandu.  Because 
of  the  growing  pressure  on  foreign  donors  to  hire  Nepalese  con- 
sultants for  development  feasibility  and  evaluation  projects,  these 
firms  were  able  to  tap  into  the  large  pool  of  foreign  aid  money  and 
have  generated  a  significant  number  of  jobs.  This  opportunity  has 
allowed  many  of  the  more  educated  to  attain  middle  class  status. 

Religion 

Religion  and  Society 

Religion  occupies  an  integral  position  in  Nepalese  life  and  soci- 
ety. In  the  early  1990s,  Nepal  was  the  only  constitutionally  declared 
Hindu  state  in  the  world;  there  was,  however,  a  great  deal  of  in- 
termingling of  Hindu  and  Buddhist  beliefs.  Many  of  the  people 
regarded  as  Hindus  in  the  1981  census  could,  with  as  much  justifi- 
cation, be  called  Buddhists.  The  fact  that  Hindus  worshipped  at 
Buddhist  temples  and  Buddhists  worshipped  at  Hindu  temples  has 
been  one  of  the  principal  reasons  adherents  of  the  two  dominant 
groups  in  Nepal  have  never  engaged  in  any  overt  religious  con- 
flicts. Because  of  such  dual  faith  practices  (or  mutual  respect),  the 
differences  between  Hindus  and  Buddhists  have  been  in  general 
very  subtle  and  academic  in  nature.  However,  in  1991,  approxi- 
mately 89.5  percent  of  the  Nepalese  people  identified  themselves 
as  Hindus.  Buddhists  and  Muslims  comprised  only  5.3  and  2.7 
percent,  respectively.  The  remainder  followed  other  religions,  in- 
cluding Christianity. 


88 


89 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

The  geographical  distribution  of  religious  groups  revealed  a 
preponderance  of  Hindus,  accounting  for  at  least  87  percent  of  the 
population  in  every  region.  The  largest  concentrations  of  Bud- 
dhists were  found  in  the  eastern  hills,  the  Kathmandu  Valley,  and 
the  central  Tarai;  in  each  area  about  10  percent  of  the  people  were 
Buddhist.  Buddhism  was  relatively  more  common  among  the 
Newar  and  Tibeto-Nepalese  groups.  Among  the  Tibeto-Nepalese, 
those  most  influenced  by  Hinduism  were  the  Magar,  Sunwar,  and 
Rai  peoples.  Hindu  influence  was  less  prominent  among  the 
Gurung,  Limbu,  Bhote,  and  Thakali  groups,  who  continued  to 
employ  Buddhist  monks  for  their  religious  ceremonies. 

Hinduism 

Hinduism  generally  is  regarded  as  the  oldest  formal  religion  in 
the  world.  The  origins  of  Hinduism  go  back  to  the  pastoral  Aryan 
tribes,  spilling  over  the  Hindu  Kush  from  Inner  Asia,  and  mixing 
with  the  urban  civilization  of  the  Indus  Valley  and  with  the  tribal 
cultures  of  hunting  and  gathering  peoples  in  the  area.  Unlike  other 
world  religions,  Hinduism  had  no  single  founder  and  has  never 
been  missionary  in  orientation.  It  is  believed  that  about  1200  B.C., 
or  even  earlier  by  some  accounts,  the  Vedas,  a  body  of  hymns 
originating  in  northern  India  were  produced;  these  texts  form  the 
theological  and  philosophical  precepts  of  Hinduism. 

Hindus  believe  that  the  absolute  (the  totality  of  existence,  in- 
cluding God,  man,  and  universe)  is  too  vast  to  be  contained  with- 
in a  single  set  of  beliefs.  A  highly  diverse  and  complex  religion, 
Hinduism  embraces  six  philosophical  doctrines  (darshanas).  From 
these  doctrines,  individuals  select  one  that  is  congenial,  or  conduct 
their  worship  simply  on  a  convenient  level  of  morality  and  obser- 
vance. Religious  practices  differ  from  group  to  group.  The  aver- 
age Hindu  does  not  need  any  systematic  formal  creed  in  order  to 
practice  his  or  her  religion.  Hindus  need  only  to  comply  with  the 
customs  of  their  family  and  social  groups. 

One  basic  concept  in  Hinduism  is  that  of  dharma,  natural  law 
and  the  social  and  religious  obligations  it  imposes.  It  holds  that 
individuals  should  play  their  proper  role  in  society  as  determined 
or  prescribed  by  their  dharma.  The  caste  system,  although  not  es- 
sential to  philosophical  Hinduism,  has  become  an  integral  part  of 
its  social  or  dharmic  expression.  Under  this  system,  each  person 
is  born  into  a  particular  caste,  whose  traditional  occupation — 
although  members  do  not  necessarily  practice  it — is  graded  accord- 
ing to  the  degree  of  purity  and  impurity  inherent  in  it. 

Other  fundamental  ideas  common  to  all  Hindus  concern  the  na- 
ture and  destiny  of  the  soul,  and  the  basic  forces  of  the  universe. 


90 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

The  souls  of  human  beings  are  seen  as  separated  portions  of  an 
all-embracing  world  soul  (brahma);  man's  ultimate  goal  is  reunion 
with  this  absolute. 

Karma  (universal  justice)  is  the  belief  that  the  consequence  of 
every  good  or  bad  action  must  be  fully  realized.  Another  basic  con- 
cept is  that  of  samsara,  the  transmigration  of  souls;  rebirth  is  re- 
quired by  karma  in  order  that  the  consequences  of  action  be  fulfilled. 
The  role  an  individual  must  play  throughout  his  or  her  life  is  fixed 
by  his  or  her  good  and  evil  actions  in  previous  existences.  It  is  only 
when  the  individual  soul  sees  beyond  the  veil  of  maya  (illusion  or 
earthly  desires) — the  forces  leading  to  belief  in  the  appearances  of 
things — that  it  is  able  to  realize  its  identity  with  the  impersonal, 
transcendental  reality  (world  soul)  and  to  escape  from  the  other- 
wise endless  cycle  of  rebirth  to  be  absorbed  into  the  world  soul. 
This  release  is  known  as  moksha. 

Veneration  for  the  cow  has  come  to  be  intimately  associated  with 
all  orthodox  Hindu  sects.  Because  the  cow  is  regarded  as  the  sym- 
bol of  motherhood  and  fruitfulness,  the  killing  of  a  cow,  even  ac- 
cidentally, is  regarded  as  one  of  the  most  serious  of  religious 
transgressions. 

Hinduism  is  polytheistic.  It  incorporates  many  gods  and  god- 
desses with  different  functions  and  powers;  but  in  the  most  impor- 
tant and  widely  held  doctrine,  the  Vedanta,  gods  and  goddesses 
are  considered  merely  different  manifestations  or  aspects  of  a  sin- 
gle underlying  divinity.  This  single  divinity  is  expressed  as  a  Hin- 
du triad  comprising  the  religion's  three  major  gods:  Brahma, 
Vishnu,  and  Shiva,  personifying  creation,  preservation,  and  de- 
struction, respectively.  Vishnu  and  Shiva,  or  some  of  their  numer- 
ous avatars  (incarnations),  are  most  widely  followed. 

Buddha,  the  founder  of  Buddhism,  is  regarded  as  the  ninth  avatar 
of  Vishnu.  Some  Hindus  identify  Christ  as  the  tenth  avatar;  others 
regard  Kalki  as  the  final  avatar  who  is  yet  to  come.  These  avatars 
are  believed  to  descend  upon  earth  to  restore  peace,  order,  and 
justice,  or  to  save  humanity  from  injustice.  The  Mahabharata  (com- 
piled by  the  sage  Vyasa,  probably  before  A.D.  400),  describes  the 
great  civil  war  between  the  Pandavas  (the  good)  and  the  Kaura- 
vas  (the  bad) — two  factions  of  the  same  clan.  It  is  believed  that 
the  war  was  created  by  Krishna.  Perhaps  the  flashiest  and  crafti- 
est avatar  of  Vishnu,  Krishna,  as  a  part  of  his  lila  (sport  or  act), 
is  believed  motivated  to  restore  justice — the  good  over  the  bad. 

Buddhism 

Buddhism  had  its  origin  in  the  teachings  of  Siddhartha  Gauta- 
ma, a  Kshatriya  caste  prince  of  the  Sakya  clan;  he  was  born  in 


91 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Lumbini,  in  the  central  Tarai  Region,  about  563  B.C.  His  father 
was  the  ruler  of  a  minor  principality  in  the  region.  Born  a  Hindu 
and  educated  in  the  Hindu  tradition,  Siddhartha  Gautama  renounced 
worldly  life  at  about  the  age  of  twenty-nine  and  spent  the  next  six 
years  in  meditation.  At  the  end  of  this  time,  he  attained  enlight- 
enment; thereafter,  known  as  the  Buddha,  or  the  Enlightened  One, 
he  devoted  the  remainder  of  his  life  to  preaching  his  doctrine. 

The  Buddha  accepted  or  reinterpreted  the  basic  concepts  of  Hin- 
duism, such  as  karma,  samsara,  dharma,  and  moksha,  but  he  gener- 
ally refused  to  commit  himself  to  specific  metaphysical  theories. 
He  said  they  were  essentially  irrelevant  to  his  teachings  and  could 
only  distract  attention  from  them.  He  was  interested  in  restoring 
a  concern  with  morality  to  religious  life,  which  he  believed  had 
become  stifled  in  details  of  ritual,  external  observances,  and 
legalisms. 

The  Four  Noble  Truths  summarize  the  Buddha's  analysis  of  the 
human  situation  and  the  solution  he  found  for  the  problems  of  life. 
The  first  truth  is  that  life,  in  a  world  of  unceasing  change,  is  in- 
herently imperfect  and  sorrowful,  and  that  misery  is  not  merely 
a  result  of  occasional  frustration  of  desire  or  misfortune,  but  is  a 
quality  permeating  all  experience.  The  second  truth  is  that  the  cause 
of  sorrow  is  desire,  the  emotional  involvement  with  existence  that 
led  from  rebirth  to  rebirth  through  the  operation  of  karma.  The 
third  truth  is  that  the  sorrow  can  be  ended  by  eliminating  desire. 
The  fourth  truth  sets  forth  the  Eightfold  Path  leading  to  elimina- 
tion of  desire,  rebirth,  and  sorrow,  and  to  the  attainment  of  nir- 
vana or  nibbana  (see  Glossary),  a  state  of  bliss  and  selfless 
enlightment.  It  rejoins  right  or  perfect  understanding,  aspiration, 
speech,  action,  livelihood,  effort,  thought,  and  contemplation. 

Education 

Education  under  Rana  Rule 

The  Rana  rulers,  who  placed  Nepal  under  their  feudal  yoke  for 
about  100  years  until  the  beginning  of  the  1950s,  feared  an  edu- 
cated public.  This  fear  also  was  held  by  Prime  Minister  Chandra 
Shamsher  Rana,  who  established  Tri-Chandra  College  in  1918  and 
named  it  after  himself.  During  the  inauguration  of  the  college, 
Chandra  Shamsher  lamented  that  its  opening  was  the  ultimate  death 
knell  to  Rana  rule.  He  personally  felt  responsible  for  the  downfall 
of  Rana  rule,  and  his  words  became  prophetic  for  the  crumbling 
of  Rana  political  power  in  1950-51. 

The  privileged  access  of  members  of  the  higher  castes  and  wealthi- 
er economic  strata  to  education  was  for  centuries  a  distinguishing 


92 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

feature  of  society.  The  Ranas  kept  education  the  exclusive  preroga- 
tive of  the  ruling  elite;  the  rest  of  the  population  remained  largely 
illiterate.  The  Ranas  were  opposed  to  any  form  of  public  schooling 
for  the  people,  although  they  emphasized  formal  instruction  for 
their  own  children  to  prepare  them  for  a  place  in  the  government. 

The  founder  of  the  Rana  regime,  Jang  Bahadur  Kunwar,  later 
known  as  Jang  Bahadur  Rana,  decided  to  give  his  children  an  En- 
glish education  rather  than  the  traditional  religiously  oriented  train- 
ing. In  1854  Jang  Bahadur  engaged  an  English  tutor  to  hold  classes 
for  his  children  in  the  Rana  palace.  This  act  tipped  the  balance 
in  favor  of  English  education  and  established  its  supremacy  over 
the  traditional  type  of  Sanskrit-based  education.  In  1991  English 
education  still  carried  a  higher  status  and  prestige  than  did  tradi- 
tional education. 

Jang  Bahadur's  successor  opened  these  classes  to  all  Rana  chil- 
dren and  formally  organized  them  into  Durbar  High  School.  A 
brief  shift  in  government  education  policy  came  in  1901,  when 
Prime  Minister  Dev  Shamsher  Rana  took  office  and  called  for 
sweeping  education  reforms.  He  proposed  a  system  of  universal 
public  primary  education,  using  Nepali  as  the  language  of  instruc- 
tion and  opening  Durbar  High  School  to  children  who  were  not 
members  of  the  Rana  clan.  Dev  Shamsher' s  policies  were  so  un- 
popular that  he  was  deposed  within  a  few  months.  His  call  for  re- 
forms did  not  entirely  disappear,  however.  A  few  Nepali-language 
primary  schools  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley,  the  Hill  Region,  and 
the  Tarai  remained  open,  and  the  practice  of  admitting  a  few 
middle-  and  low-caste  children  to  Durbar  High  School  continued. 

Before  World  War  II  (1939-45),  several  new  English  middle  and 
high  schools  were  founded  in  Patan,  Biratnagar,  and  elsewhere, 
and  a  girls'  high  school  was  opened  in  Kathmandu.  In  the  villages, 
public  respect  for  education  was  increasing,  largely  as  a  result  of 
the  influence  of  returning  Gurkha  soldiers,  many  of  whom  had 
learned  to  read  and  write  while  serving  in  the  British  army.  Some 
retired  soldiers  began  giving  rudimentary  education  to  children  in 
their  villages.  Some  members  of  the  high-caste,  elite  families  sent 
their  children  to  Patna  University,  Banaras  Hindu  University,  or 
other  universities  in  India  for  higher  academic  or  technical  train- 
ing. It  was  in  fact,  some  of  these  students,  having  realized  how 
oppressive  the  policies  of  Rana  rule  were,  who  initiated  anti-Rana 
movements,  provided  revolutionary  cadres,  and  finally  began  the 
revolution  that  ultimately  led  to  the  overthrow  of  Rana  rule  in  1951 . 

Before  the  1950-51  revolution,  Nepal  had  310  primary  and  mid- 
dle schools,  eleven  high  schools,  two  colleges,  one  normal  school, 
and  one  special  technical  school.  In  the  early  1950s,  the  average 


93 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

literacy  rate  was  5  percent.  Literacy  among  males  was  10  percent 
and  among  females  less  than  1  percent.  Only  1  child  in  100  at- 
tended school. 

Education  since  1951 

After  the  1951  revolution,  efforts  were  made  to  establish  an  edu- 
cation system.  The  National  Education  Planning  Commission  was 
founded  in  1954,  the  All  Round  National  Education  Committee 
in  1961,  and  the  National  Education  Advisory  Board  in  1968  in 
order  to  implement  and  to  refine  the  education  system.  In  1971 
the  New  Education  System  came  into  operation  as  an  integral  part 
of  the  Fourth  Five- Year  Plan  (1970-75);  it  was  designed  to  address 
individual,  as  well  as  societal,  needs  in  concert  with  the  goals  of 
national  development  (see  The  Five-Year  Plans,  ch.  3). 

Formal  schooling  in  modern  times  was  still  constrained  by  the 
economy  and  culture.  Children  were  generally  needed  to  work  in 
the  fields  and  at  home.  Many  students  began  school  late  (at  ages 
nine  or  ten);  more  than  half  left  school  after  completing  only  one 
year.  Educating  females  was  viewed  as  unnecessary;  as  a  conse- 
quence, their  enrollment  levels  were  far  lower  than  those  of  males. 
Regional  variations  often  hindered  the  effectiveness  of  uniform  text 
materials  and  teacher  training.  Although  the  government  was  rela- 
tively successful  in  establishing  new  schools,  the  quality  of  educa- 
tion remained  low,  particularly  in  remote  regions  where  the  majority 
of  the  population  lived.  Terrain  further  inhibited  management  and 
supervision  of  schools. 

Most  schools  operated  for  ten  months  of  the  year,  five  and  one- 
half  days  a  week.  In  the  warmer  regions,  June  and  July  were  va- 
cation months;  in  the  northern  regions,  mid-December  through 
mid- February  were  vacation  months.  All  schools  in  Kathmandu 
closed  for  winter  vacation. 

In  1975  primary  education  was  made  free,  and  the  government 
became  responsible  for  providing  school  facilities,  teachers,  and 
educational  materials.  Primary  schooling  was  compulsory;  it  be- 
gan at  age  six  and  lasted  for  five  years.  Secondary  education  be- 
gan at  age  eleven  and  lasted  another  five  years  in  two  cycles — two 
years  (lower)  and  three  years  (higher).  Total  school  enrollment  was 
approximately  52  percent  of  school-age  children  (approximately 
70  percent  of  school-age  boys,  30  percent  of  school-age  girls)  in 
1984.  Secondary  school  enrollment  was  only  18  percent  of  the  rele- 
vant age-group  (27  percent  of  the  total  boys,  9  percent  of  the  total 
girls).  About  72  percent  of  all  students  were  male.  The  Ministry 
of  Education  supervised  the  finance,  administration,  staffing,  and 


94 


A  house  in  the  Makalu  area  of  the  Mountain  Region,  near  Khandbari 

An  open  dwelling  in  Thumlingtar 
Courtesy  Linda  Galantin 


95 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

inspection  of  government  schools.  It  also  inspected  private  schools 
that  received  government  subsidies. 

As  of  1987,  Nepal  had  12,491  primary  schools,  3,824  lower- 
secondary  schools,  and  1,501  higher- secondary  schools.  There  were 
55,207  primary,  11,744  lower- secondary,  and  8,918  higher- 
secondary  school  teachers.  Primary  school  enrollments  totaled 
1,952,504  persons;  lower-secondary  and  higher- secondary  enroll- 
ment figures  stood  at  289,594  and  289,923  persons,  respectively. 

Curriculum  was  greatly  influenced  by  United  States  models,  and 
it  was  developed  with  assistance  from  the  United  Nations  Educa- 
tional, Scientific,  and  Cultural  Organization.  The  National  Edu- 
cation Plan  established  a  framework  for  universal  education.  The 
goal  of  primary  education  was  to  teach  reading,  writing,  and  arith- 
metic, and  to  instill  discipline  and  hygiene.  Lower- secondary  edu- 
cation emphasized  character  formation,  a  positive  attitude  toward 
manual  labor,  and  perseverance.  Higher-secondary  education 
stressed  manpower  requirements  and  preparation  for  higher  edu- 
cation. National  development  goals  were  emphasized  through  the 
curriculum. 

The  School  Leaving  Certificate  examination,  a  nationally  ad- 
ministered and  monitored  high-school-matriculation  examination, 
was  given  after  completion  of  the  higher- secondary  level.  Those 
who  passed  this  examination  were  eligible  for  college.  In  addition, 
some  communities  had  adult  education  schools. 

In  the  early  1980s,  approximately  60  percent  of  the  primary 
school  teachers  and  35  percent  of  secondary  school  teachers  were 
untrained,  despite  the  institution  of  a  uniform  method  of  training 
in  1951.  The  Institute  of  Education,  part  of  Tribhuvan  Universi- 
ty, was  responsible  for  inservice  and  preservice  teacher  training 
programs.  Beginning  in  1976,  the  institute  organized  a  distance- 
learning  program — electronic  links  between  distant  locations — for 
prospective  teachers.  Developments  in  telecommunications  will  pro- 
vide new  educational  options. 

At  the  higher  education  level,  there  was  only  one  doctoral  degree- 
granting  institution  in  Nepal,  Tribhuvan  University.  It  was  named 
after  King  Tribhuvan  Bir  Bikram  Shah,  the  grandfather  of  King 
Birendra,  and  was  chartered  in  1959.  All  public  colleges  fell  under 
Tribhuvan  University.  Private  colleges  were  operated  independent- 
ly, although  they  also  were  required  to  meet  the  requirements  and 
standards  set  by  Tribhuvan  University.  The  total  number  of  col- 
leges increased  significantly,  from  8  in  1958  to  132  in  1988  (69  under 
Tribhuvan  University  and  63  private  colleges).  In  terms  of  sub- 
jects, these  colleges  covered  a  wide  range  of  disciplines,  such  as 
social  sciences;  humanities;  commerce  (business);  physical  sciences, 


96 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

including  some  medical  sciences;  engineering;  education;  forestry; 
law;  and  Sanskrit.  The  number  of  students  enrolled  in  higher  edu- 
cation institutions  totaled  almost  83,000  in  1987;  the  largest  per- 
centage was  in  humanities  and  social  sciences  (40  percent),  followed 
by  commerce  (31  percent),  science  and  technology  (11  percent), 
and  education  (6  percent).  Approximately  20  percent  of  the  stu- 
dents enrolled  in  Tribhuvan  University  were  females. 

The  1981  census  found  24  percent  of  the  population  to  be  liter- 
ate; as  of  1990,  the  literacy  rate  was  estimated  to  be  33  percent. 
There  still  was  a  big  gap  between  male  and  female  literacy  rates. 
About  35  percent  of  the  male  population  was  literate  in  1981,  but 
only  11.5  percent  of  the  female  population  was.  A  gulf  also  existed 
in  literacy  rates  between  rural  and  urban  areas.  In  rural  areas,  the 
literacy  rates  for  males  and  females  were  33  percent  and  9  percent, 
respectively;  in  urban  areas,  they  were  significantly  higher,  62  per- 
cent and  37  percent,  respectively.  The  higher  literacy  rates  in  ur- 
ban areas  were  largely  attributed  to  the  availability  of  more  and 
better  educational  opportunities,  a  greater  awareness  of  the  need 
for  education  for  employment  and  socioeconomic  mobility,  and  the 
exodus  of  educated  people  from  rural  to  urban  areas.  Nepal 
launched  a  twelve-year  literacy  program  in  1990,  targeting  8  mil- 
lion people  between  the  ages  of  six  and  forty-five. 

There  was  little  doubt  among  observers  that  the  historical  mo- 
nopoly of  educational  opportunity  by  members  of  the  wealthier  and 
higher  caste  groups  gradually  was  diminishing.  Schools  and  col- 
leges were  open  to  all,  and  enrollment  figures  were  rising  rapidly. 
The  long-standing  prejudice  against  the  education  of  women  seemed 
to  be  very  slowly  breaking  down,  as  attested  to  by  increasing  en- 
rollments of  girls  in  schools  and  colleges.  Yet  two  distinct  biases — 
social  class  and  geography — remained  pronounced  in  educational 
attainment. 

Despite  general  accessibility,  education  still  nonetheless  primarily 
served  children  of  landlords,  businessmen,  government  leaders,  or 
other  elite  members  of  the  society,  for  they  were  the  only  ones  who 
could  easily  afford  to  continue  beyond  primary  school.  They  also 
were  far  more  able  to  afford,  and  likely  to  continue,  education  be- 
yond the  high  school  level.  Many  students  in  the  general  popula- 
tion dropped  out  before  they  took  the  School  Leaving  Certificate 
examination.  There  was  an  even  more  important  ingredient  for 
success  after  leaving  school:  if  the  quality  of  available  higher  edu- 
cation was  considered  inadequate  or  inferior,  higher  caste  fami- 
lies could  afford  to  send  their  children  overseas  to  obtain  necessary 
degrees.  Foreign  educational  degrees,  especially  those  obtained  from 
United  States  and  West  European  institutions,  carried  greater 


97 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

prestige  than  degrees  from  Nepal.  Higher  caste  families  also  had 
the  necessary  connections  to  receive  government  scholorships  to 
study  abroad. 

Further,  education  remained  largely  urban-biased.  The  majority 
of  education  institutions,  particularly  better  quality  institutions, 
were  found  in  urban  areas.  In  rural  areas  where  schools  were  set 
up,  the  quality  of  instruction  was  inferior,  facilities  were  very  poor, 
and  educational  materials  were  either  difficult  to  find  or  virtually 
unavailable.  Consequently,  if  rural  families  were  serious  about  the 
education  of  their  children,  they  were  forced  to  send  them  to  ur- 
ban areas,  a  very  expensive  proposition  that  the  vast  majority  of 
rural  households  could  not  afford. 

Although  there  has  been  a  remarkable  numerical  growth  in  the 
literacy  rates,  as  well  as  the  number  of  education  institutions  over 
the  years,  the  quality  of  education  has  not  necessarily  improved. 
There  were  few  top-notch  teachers  and  professors,  and  their  morale 
was  low.  At  the  higher  educational  level,  the  research  focus  or  tra- 
dition was  virtually  absent,  largely  because  there  were  few  research 
facilities  available  for  professors.  There  were  some  excellent  pri- 
vate schools,  mostly  located  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley,  but  many 
appeared  to  be  merely  money-making  ventures  rather  than  seri- 
ous, devoted  educational  enterprises.  The  large  majority  of  schools 
and  colleges  were  run  by  poorly  prepared  and  poorly  trained 
teachers  and  professors.  Schools  and  colleges  frequently  were  closed 
because  of  strikes.  Students  had  little  respect  for  teachers  and  profes- 
sors and  were  concerned  with  obtaining  a  certificate  rather  than 
a  quality  education.  Cheating  was  rampant  during  examinations 
at  all  levels. 

Health 

Health-care  problems  were  varied  and  enormous.  Health  and 
health-care  facilities  were  generally  poor  and  directly  reflected  the 
mode  of  life.  The  majority  of  people  lived  in  mass  poverty  and  depri- 
vation, while  the  nation's  small  wealth  was  concentrated  in  the 
hands  of  a  few.  Deprivation  was  apparent  in  the  pervasiveness  of 
poor  nutrition  and  sanitation,  inadequate  housing  for  most  fami- 
lies, and  the  general  absence  of  modern  medical  care  and  other 
social  services,  especially  in  rural  areas.  The  rich  lived  compara- 
tively well  but  also  shared  such  common  problems  as  the  lack  of 
an  abundant  and  clean  water  supply,  and  the  prevalence  of  disease. 

Diseases  and  Disease  Control 

Poor  health  conditions  were  evident  in  the  high  rate  of  infant 
mortality  and  a  short  life  expectancy.  In  the  mid-1960s,  a  national 


98 


Stone  sculpture  of  Ugrachandi  Durga,  with  eighteen  arms, 

Bhaktapur  Durbar  Square 
Courtesy  Linda  Galantin 


99 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


health  survey  was  conducted.  In  1991  that  survey  was  still  consid- 
ered the  major  comprehensive  published  source  of  information  on 
the  national  public  health  situation. 

A  number  of  diseases  and  chronic  infections  were  prevalent.  Goi- 
ter, a  disease  directly  associated  with  iodine  deficiency,  was  en- 
demic in  certain  villages  in  the  hills  and  mountains.  In  most  of 
the  villages  surveyed,  more  than  half  of  the  population  had  goiter, 
and  in  these  same  villages  the  incidence  of  deafness  and  mental 
retardation  was  much  higher  than  in  other  villages.  Leprosy  also 
was  a  serious  problem.  Foreign  assistance,  specifically  through 
Christian  missions,  was  responsible  for  setting  up  leprosy  treat- 
ment centers  in  different  parts  of  the  country.  Tuberculosis  has 
been  a  chronic  problem  and  was  more  common  in  urban  areas. 
During  the  1970s,  the  Tuberculosis  Control  Project  was  established 
to  provide  immunizations  to  all  children  younger  than  fifteen,  and 
it  is  likely  that  this  project  has  reduced  tuberculosis.  Other  chronic, 
widespread  problems  were  intestinal  parasites,  diarrhea,  and  gastro- 
intestinal disorders.  Some  polio  and  typhoid  infections  were  com- 
mon but  not  severe. 

Malnutrition  was  a  chronic  problem,  especially  in  rural  areas. 
More  than  50  percent  of  the  children  surveyed  were  reported  to 
have  stunted  growth.  "Wasting,"  defined  as  a  condition  in  which 
a  child  has  very  low  weight  for  his  or  her  height,  was  also  evident. 
These  conditions  were  particularly  bad  in  the  Hill  and  Mountain 
regions,  both  of  which  suffered  from  food  shortages.  The  coun- 
try's public  health  program,  however,  has  essentially  eliminated 
smallpox  and  has  been  able  to  control  malaria,  which  used  to  be 
endemic  to  the  Tarai  Region  and  other  lowlands. 

Health-Care  Facilities 

The  health-care  delivery  network  in  Nepal  was  poorly  developed. 
Health-care  practices  in  the  country  could  be  classified  into  three 
major  categories:  popular  folk  medical  care,  which  relied  on  a jhankri 
(medicine  man  or  shaman);  Ayurvedic  treatment;  and  allopathic 
(modern)  medicine.  These  practices  were  not  necessarily  exclusive; 
most  people  used  all  three,  sometimes  even  simultaneously,  depend- 
ing on  the  type  of  illness  and  the  availability  of  services. 

Popular  folk  medicine  derived  from  a  large  body  of  commonly 
held  assumptions  about  magical  and  supernatural  causes  of  illness. 
Sickness  and  death  often  were  attributed  to  ghosts,  demons,  and 
evil  spirits,  or  they  were  thought  to  result  from  the  evil  eye,  plane- 
tary influences,  or  the  displeasures  of  ancestors.  Many  precautions 
against  these  dangers  were  taken,  including  the  wearing  of  charms 
or  certain  ornaments,  the  avoidance  of  certain  foods  and  sights. 


100 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

and  the  propitiation  of  ghosts  and  gods  with  sacrificial  gifts.  When 
illness  struck  or  an  epidemic  threatened,  people  went  to  see  a.jhankri 
for  treatment.  Such  pseudomedical  practices  were  ubiquitous;  in 
many  parts  of  Nepal,  ajhankri  was  the  only  source  of  medical  care 
available.  Nepalese  also  regularly  saw  jotishi  (Brahman  astrologers) 
for  counseling  because  they  believed  in  planetary  influence  on  their 
lives,  resulting  from  disalignments  of  certain  planetary  signs.  Jotishi 
were  commonly  relied  on  even  in  urban  areas,  and  even  by  those 
who  were  well  educated  and  frequently  used  modern  medicine. 
And,  virtually  no  arranged  marital  union  was  proposed  and  con- 
cluded without  first  consulting  a.  jotishi. 

The  Ayurvedic  system  of  medicine  was  believed  to  have  evolved 
among  the  Hindus  about  2,000  years  ago.  It  originally  was  based 
on  the  Ayur-  Veda  (the  Veda  of  Long  Life),  but  a  vast  literature  since 
has  accumulated  around  this  original  text.  According  to  the 
Ayurvedic  theory,  the  body,  like  the  universe,  consists  of  three 
forces — phlegm,  bile,  and  wind — and  physical  and  spiritual  well- 
being  rests  on  maintaining  the  proper  balance  among  these  three 
internal  forces.  A  harmonious  existence  between  body  and  mind 
results.  Ayurvedic  pharmacopoeia — based  on  medicinal  plants, 
plant  roots,  and  herbs — remained  a  major  source  of  medical  treat- 
ment in  Nepal.  This  school  of  medical  practice  also  applies  the  hot- 
and-cold  concept  of  foods  and  diets.  In  the  late  1980s,  there  were 
nearly  280  practicing  Ayurvedic  physicians,  popularly  known  as 
vaidhya;  145  Ayurvedic  dispensaries;  and  a  national  college  of 
Ayurvedic  medicine  in  Kathmandu. 

In  1991  the  most  commonly  used  form  of  medical  treatment, 
especially  for  major  health  problems,  was  modern  medicine 
whenever  and  wherever  accessible.  Within  the  domain  of  modern 
medicine,  providing  public  health-care  facilities  was  largely  the 
responsibility  of  the  government.  Private  facilities  also  existed  in 
various  regions.  Modern  medical  service  generally  was  provided 
by  trained  doctors,  paramedics,  nurses,  and  other  community  health 
workers.  The  government-operated  health-care  delivery  system  con- 
sisted of  hospitals  and  health  centers,  including  health  posts  in  rural 
areas. 

Hospitals  were  located  mostly  in  urban  areas  and  provided  a 
much  wider  range  of  medical  services  than  health  centers.  They 
were  attended  by  doctors,  as  well  as  by  nurses,  and  equipped  with 
basic  laboratory  facilities.  Small  health  centers  and  posts  in  rural 
areas — most  of  them  staffed  by  paramedical  personnel,  health  aides, 
and  other  minimally  trained  community  health  workers — served 
the  needs  of  the  scattered  population.  Even  though  these  rural  fa- 
cilities were  more  accessible  than  urban  hospitals,  they  generally 


101 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

failed  to  provide  necessary  services  on  a  regular  and  consistent  basis. 
The  majority  of  them  were  barely  functional  because  of  such 
problems  as  inadequate  funding;  lack  of  trained  staff;  absentee- 
ism; and  chronic  shortages  of  equipment,  medicines,  and  vaccines. 

Nepal  had  a  total  of  123  hospitals,  eighteen  health  centers,  and 
816  health  posts  in  1990.  There  was  one  hospital  bed  for  every  4,283 
persons,  an  improvement  since  1977,  when  there  was  one  hospital 
bed  for  every  6,489  persons.  The  number  of  doctors  totaled  879 
in  1988,  or  one  physician  available  for  about  20,000  people.  For 
the  same  period,  other  medical  personnel  included  601  nurses,  2,062 
assistant  nurses  and  midwives,  2,790  senior  and  assistant  auxiliary 
health  workers  and  health  assistants,  and  6,808  village-based  health 
workers. 

There  was  no  doubt  in  the  late  1980s  that  considerable  progress 
had  been  made  in  health  care,  but  the  available  facilities  were  still 
inadequate  to  meet  the  growing  medical  needs  of  the  population. 
The  majority  of  people  lacked  easy  access  to  modern  medical 
centers,  partly  because  of  the  absence  of  such  facilities  in  nearby 
locations  and  partly  because  of  the  physical  barrier  posed  by  the 
country's  rugged  terrain.  Because  there  were  very  few  modern 
means  of  transportation  in  rural  areas,  particularly  in  the  hills  and 
mountains,  people  had  to  walk  on  average  about  half  a  day  to  get 
to  health  posts.  Such  a  long  walk  was  not  only  difficult  (especially 
when  the  patient  needed  medical  attention),  but  also  meant  eco- 
nomic hardship  for  the  majority  who  rarely  could  afford  to  be  ab- 
sent for  the  whole  day  from  their  daily  work.  As  a  result,  many 
minor  illnesses  went  untreated,  and  some  of  them  later  developed 
into  major  illnesses. 

In  the  early  1990s,  Nepal's  geographical  limitations  continued 
to  play  a  large  part  in  the  country's  social  and  economic  problems. 
Moreover,  despite  twenty-five  years  of  family  planning  programs, 
the  population  growth  rate  continued  to  outpace  agricultural 
production  and  parts  of  the  country  continued  to  be  food  deficit 
areas.  The  educational  base  was  also  limited;  only  one-third  of  the 
population  was  literate.  The  generally  poor  health  of  the  popula- 
tion and  a  lack  of  adequate  health-care  facilities  also  hindered  so- 
cial and  economic  improvements. 

*     *  * 

A  good  source  of  information  on  cultural  and  physical  geogra- 
phy, although  outdated,  is  Pradyumna  P.  Karan's  Nepal:  A  Cul- 
tural and  Physical  Geography.  Barry  C.  Bishop's  Karnali  under  Stress 
not  only  provides  a  good  geographic  and  climatic  description  of 


102 


Nepal:  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

Nepal,  but  also  covers  ethnic  history  and  analyzes  the  economic 
strategies  practiced  by  the  mountain  and  hill  peoples.  Although 
Bishop's  surveys  were  conducted  in  the  Karnali  region,  they  ap- 
ply to  the  entire  upland  region — hills  and  mountains — of  Nepal. 
Jack  D.  Ives's  and  Bruno  Messerli's  The  Himalayan  Dilemma  is 
another  good  source  of  physical  geographic  information  on  Nepal; 
sections  concerning  environmental  degradation  are  particularly 
useful. 

The  Population  Monograph  of  Nepal,  prepared  by  the  National  Plan- 
ning Commission,  is  a  good  source  of  statistics  on  demographic, 
social,  and  economic  issues.  Another  publication  by  the  commis- 
sion, The  Statistical  Year  Book  of  Nepal,  1989,  supplies  fairly  exten- 
sive and  up-to-date  data  on  various  social  and  economic  variables 
and  indicators.  Pitamber  Sharma's  Urbanization  in  Nepal  uses  cen- 
sus data  from  1952  to  1981  to  examine  the  various  aspects  of  ur- 
banization. 

Badri  Prasad  Shrestha's  An  Introduction  to  Nepalese  Economy  is  some- 
what outdated,  but  has  good  background  material  on  the  contem- 
porary economic  situation.  Mahesh  Chandra  Regmi's^4rc  Economic 
History  of  Nepal,  1846-1901  is  an  excellent  historical  treatment  of 
the  economy,  arid  his  Landowner  ship  in  Nepal  is  a  classic  study  of 
land  tenure.  Nanda  R.  Shrestha's  Landlessness  and  Migration  in  Nepal 
and  Vidya  Bir  Singh  Kansakar's  Effectiveness  of  Planned  Resettlement 
Programme  in  Nepal  supply  detailed  analyses  of  internal  migration 
and  land  resettlement  in  the  Tarai.  (For  further  information  and 
complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


103 


Chapter  3.  Nepal:  The  Economy 


A  Nepalese  porter  carrying  supplies  for  a  trek 


Nepal  is  one  of  the  poorest  countries  in  the 

world;  it  was  listed  as  the  eleventh  poorest  among  121  countries 
in  1989.  Estimates  of  its  per  capita  income  for  1988  ranged  from 
US$158  to  US$180.  Various  factors  contributed  to  the  economic 
underdevelopment — including  terrain,  lack  of  resource  endowment, 
landlocked  position,  lack  of  institutions  for  modernization,  weak 
infrastructure,  and  a  lack  of  policies  conducive  to  development. 

Until  1951  Nepal  had  very  little  contact  with  countries  other  than 
India,  Tibet,  and  Britain.  Movement  of  goods  or  people  from  one 
part  of  the  country  to  another  usually  required  passage  through 
India,  making  Nepal  dependent  on  trade  with  or  via  India.  The 
mountains  to  the  north  and  the  lack  of  economic  growth  in  Tibet 
(China's  Xizang  Autonomous  Region  after  1959)  meant  very  lit- 
tle trade  was  possible  with  this  northern  neighbor. 

Prior  to  1951,  few  all-weather  roads  existed,  and  the  transpor- 
tation of  goods  was  difficult.  Goods  were  able  to  reach  Kathman- 
du  by  railroad,  trucks,  and  ropeways,  but  for  other  parts  of  the 
country  such  facilities  remained  almost  non-existent.  The  lack  of 
infrastructure  made  it  hard  to  expand  markets  and  pursue  economic 
growth.  Since  1951  Nepal  has  tried  to  expand  its  contacts  with  other 
countries  and  to  improve  its  infrastructure,  although  the  lack  of 
significant  progress  was  still  evident  in  the  early  1990s. 

The  effects  of  being  landlocked  and  of  having  to  transit  goods 
through  India  continued  to  be  reflected  in  the  early  1990s.  As  a 
result  of  the  lapse  of  the  trade  and  transit  treaties  with  India  in 
March  1989,  Nepal  faced  shortages  of  certain  consumer  goods,  raw 
materials,  and  other  industrial  inputs,  a  situation  that  led  to  a 
decline  in  industrial  production. 

Economic  Setting 

Nepal's  economy  is  irrevocably  tied  to  India.  Nepal's  geographi- 
cal position  and  the  scarcity  of  natural  resources  used  in  the  produc- 
tion of  industrial  goods  meant  that  its  economy  was  subject  to 
fluctuations  resulting  from  changes  in  its  relationship  with  India. 
Trade  and  transit  rights  affected  the  movement  of  goods  and  in- 
creased transportation  costs,  although  Nepal  also  engaged  in  un- 
recorded border  trade  with  India.  Real  economic  growth  averaged 
4  percent  annually  in  the  1980s,  but  the  1989  trade  and  transit  dis- 
pute with  India  adversely  affected  economic  progress,  and  economic 


107 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

growth  declined  to  only  1.5  percent  that  year  as  the  availability 
of  imported  raw  materials  for  export  industries  was  disrupted. 

The  Nepalese  rupee  (Rs  or  NRs;  for  value  of  the  rupee — see 
Glossary)  was  linked  to  the  Indian  rupee.  Since  the  late  1960s,  the 
universal  currency  has  been  Nepalese,  although  as  of  1991  Indian 
currency  still  was  used  as  convertible  currency.  During  the  trade 
and  transit  dispute  of  1989,  however,  Kathmandu  made  converti- 
bility of  the  Indian  rupee  more  difficult. 

Agricultural  domination  of  the  economy  had  not  changed  by 
1991 .  What  little  industrial  activity  there  was  largely  involved  the 
processing  of  agricultural  products.  Since  the  1960s,  investment 
in  the  agricultural  sector  has  not  had  a  parallel  effect  in  produc- 
tivity per  unit  of  land.  Agricultural  production  continued  to  be  in- 
fluenced by  weather  conditions  and  the  lack  of  arable  land  and  has 
not  always  kept  pace  with  population  growth  (see  table  9,  Ap- 
pendix). 

Nepal  suffered  from  an  underdeveloped  infrastructure.  This 
problem  was  exacerbated  by  a  weak  public  investment  program 
and  ineffective  administrative  services.  Economic  development  plans 
sought  to  improve  the  infrastructure  but  were  implemented  at  the 
expense  of  investment  in  direct  production  and  resulted  in  a  slow 
growth  rate.  Further,  economic  growth  did  not  keep  pace  with  popu- 
lation growth.  Largely  dependent  on  agriculture,  economic  growth 
also  was  undermined  by  poor  harvests.  The  growth  of  public  ex- 
penditures during  the  first  half  of  the  1980s  doubled  the  current 
account  deficit  of  the  balance  of  payments  and  caused  a  serious 
decline  in  international  reserves. 

Role  of  Government 

Government  participation  (or  interference)  in  the  economy  was 
very  strong,  beginning  with  the  Rana  period,  which  lasted  from 
the  mid-nineteenth  century  until  the  mid-twentieth  century  (see 
Rana  Rule,  ch.  1).  During  Rana  rule,  there  were  very  few  indus- 
tries other  than  the  cottage  type,  and  they  were  under  strict  govern- 
ment supervision.  After  the  fall  of  the  Ranas  in  1950-51,  economic 
planning  as  an  approach  to  development  was  discussed.  Finally, 
in  1956  the  First  Five- Year  Plan  (1956-61)  was  announced. 

The  Five- Year  Plans 

Economic  plans  generally  strove  to  increase  output  and  employ- 
ment; develop  the  infrastructure;  attain  economic  stability;  pro- 
mote industry,  commerce,  and  international  trade;  establish 
administrative  and  public  service  institutions  to  support  economic 
development;  and  introduce  labor-intensive  production  techniques 


108 


Nepal:  The  Economy 


to  alleviate  underemployment.  The  social  goals  of  the  plans  were 
improving  health  and  education  as  well  as  encouraging  equitable 
income  distribution.  Although  each  plan  had  different  development 
priorities,  the  allocation  of  resources  did  not  always  reflect  these 
priorities.  The  first  four  plans  concentrated  on  infrastructure — to 
make  it  possible  to  facilitate  the  movement  of  goods  and  services — 
and  to  increase  the  size  of  the  market.  Each  of  the  five-year  plans 
depended  heavily  on  foreign  assistance  in  the  forms  of  grants  and 
loans  (see  Foreign  Aid,  this  ch.). 

The  First  Five-Year  Plan  (1956-61)  allocated  about  Rs576  mil- 
lion for  development  expenditures.  Transportation  and  commu- 
nications received  top  priority  with  over  36  percent  of  the  budget 
allocations.  Agriculture,  including  village  development  and  irri- 
gation, took  second  priority  with  about  20  percent  of  budget  ex- 
penditures. The  plan,  which  also  focused  on  collecting  statistics, 
was  not  well  conceived,  however,  and  resulted  in  actual  expendi- 
tures of  about  Rs382.9  million — two-thirds  the  budgeted  amount. 
In  most  cases,  targets  were  missed  by  a  wide  margin.  For  exam- 
ple, although  approximately  1,450  kilometers  of  highways  were  tar- 
geted for  construction,  only  about  565  kilometers  were  built. 

After  Parliament,  which  had  been  established  under  the  1959 
constitution,  was  suspended  in  1960,  the  Second  Plan  failed  to 
materialize  on  schedule.  A  new  plan  was  not  introduced  until  1962 
and  covered  only  three  years,  1962-65.  The  Second  Plan  had  ex- 
penditures of  almost  Rs615  million.  Transportation  and  commu- 
nication again  received  top  priority  with  about  39  percent  of  budget 
expenditures.  Industry,  tourism,  and  social  services  were  the  se- 
cond priority.  Although  targets  again  were  missed,  there  were  im- 
provements in  industrial  production,  road  construction,  telephone 
installations,  irrigation,  and  education.  However,  only  the  organiza- 
tional improvement  area  of  the  target  was  met. 

The  first  two  plans  were  developed  with  very  little  research  and 
a  minimal  data  base.  Neither  plan  was  detailed,  and  both  contained 
only  general  terms.  The  administrative  machinery  with  which  to 
execute  these  plans  also  was  inadequate.  The  National  Planning 
Commission,  which  formulated  the  second  plan,  noted  the  difficulty 
of  preparing  plans  in  the  absence  of  statistical  data.  Further,  as 
was  the  case  with  the  first  plan,  the  bulk  of  the  development  bud- 
get depended  on  foreign  aid — mostly  in  the  form  of  grants.  The 
failure  of  these  plans  was  indicated  by  the  government's  inability 
to  spend  the  budgeted  amounts. 

The  Third  Five-Year  Plan  (1965-70)  increased  the  involve- 
ment of  local  panchayat  (see  Glossary).  It  also  focused  on  transport, 


109 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

communications,  and  industrial  and  agricultural  development.  To- 
tal planned  expenditures  were  more  than  Rsl.6  billion. 

The  Fourth  Five-Year  Plan  (1970-75)  increased  proposed  ex- 
penditures to  more  than  Rs3.3  billion.  Transportation  and  com- 
munications again  were  the  top  priority,  receiving  41.2  percent 
of  expenditures,  followed  by  agriculture,  which  was  allocated  26 
percent  of  the  budget.  Although  the  third  and  fourth  plans  increased 
the  involvement  of  the  panchayat  in  the  development  process,  the 
central  government  continued  to  carry  most  of  the  responsibilities. 

The  Fifth  Five-Year  Plan  (1975-80)  proposed  expenditures  of 
more  than  Rs8.8  billion.  For  the  first  time,  the  problem  of  poverty 
was  addressed  in  a  five-year  plan,  although  no  specific  goals  were 
mentioned.  Top  priority  was  given  to  agricultural  development, 
and  emphasis  was  placed  on  increasing  food  production  and  cash 
crops  such  as  sugar  cane  and  tobacco.  Increased  industrial  produc- 
tion and  social  services  also  were  targeted.  Controlling  population 
growth  was  considered  a  priority. 

The  Sixth  Five-Year  Plan  (1980-85)  proposed  an  outlay  of  more 
than  Rs22  billion.  Agriculture  remained  the  top  priority;  increased 
social  services  were  second.  The  budget  share  allocated  to  trans- 
portation and  communication  was  less  than  that  allocated  in  the 
previous  plan;  it  was  felt  that  the  transportation  network  had 
reached  a  point  where  it  was  more  beneficial  to  increase  spending 
on  agriculture  and  industry. 

The  Seventh  Five-Year  Plan  (1985-90)  proposed  expenditures 
of  Rs29  billion.  It  encouraged  private  sector  participation  in  the 
economy  (less  than  Rs22  billion)  and  local  government  participa- 
tion (Rs2  billion).  The  plan  targeted  increasing  productivity  of  all 
sectors,  expanding  opportunity  for  productive  employment,  and 
fulfilling  the  minimum  basic  needs  of  the  people.  For  the  first  time 
since  the  plans  were  devised,  specific  goals  were  set  for  meeting 
basic  needs.  The  availability  of  food,  clothing,  fuelwood,  drinking 
water,  primary  health  care,  sanitation,  primary  and  skill-based  edu- 
cation, and  minimum  rural  transport  facilities  was  emphasized. 

Because  of  the  political  upheavals  in  mid- 1990,  the  new  govern- 
ment postponed  formulating  the  next  plan.  The  July  1990  budget 
speech  of  the  minister  of  finance,  however,  implied  that  for  the 
interim,  the  goals  of  the  seventh  plan  were  being  followed. 

Foreign  aid  as  a  percentage  of  development  averaged  around 
66  percent  (see  table  10,  Appendix).  The  government  continually 
failed  to  use  all  committed  foreign  aid,  however,  probably  as  a  result 
of  inefficiency.  In  the  Rs26.6  billion  budget  presented  in  July  1991 , 
approximately  Rsll.8  billion,  or  44.4  percent  of  the  budget,  was 
expected  to  be  derived  from  foreign  loans  or  grants. 


110 


Ill 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Other  Development  Programs 

The  government  launched  the  Structural  Adjustment  Program 
and  the  Basic  Needs  Program  in  1985.  These  programs  stressed 
self-reliance,  financial  discipline,  and  austerity  as  goals  through 
the  year  2000.  The  Structural  Adjustment  Program  sought  to  con- 
front some  of  the  longer-term  constraints  to  economic  growth.  Its 
measures  included  increasing  domestic  resource  mobilization, 
reducing  the  growth  of  expenditures  and  domestic  bank  borrow- 
ings, and  strengthening  the  commercial  banking  and  public  enter- 
prise sectors. 

The  Structural  Adjustment  Program  initiative  focused  on  sus- 
tainable growth  through  balance  in  different  sectors  of  the  econo- 
my. Rural  development  in  particular  was  targeted  in  order  to  raise 
the  standard  of  living  and  increase  agricultural  production.  Funds 
for  education  and  health  services,  electricity  and  power,  irrigation, 
and  transportation  and  communications  were  provided.  Govern- 
ment subsidies  were  supposed  to  be  removed,  new  and  improved 
standards  of  government  efficiency  were  issued,  and  privatization 
of  government  enterprises  was  increased.  Further,  domestic 
resources  were  more  fully  used,  and  domestic  bank  borrowings  and 
the  growth  of  expenditures  were  decreased.  The  initial  response 
to  the  Structural  Adjustment  Program  was  good,  as  gross  domes- 
tic product  (GDP — see  Glossary),  exports,  and  agriculture  showed 
growth. 

The  objective  of  the  Basic  Needs  Program  was  also  to  improve 
the  standard  of  living  by  increasing  food  production,  as  well  as  to 
provide  clothing,  health  services,  and  education.  Six  goals  were 
to  be  achieved  by  the  year  2000.  Daily  food  consumption  was  to 
be  raised  to  2,250  calories  per  capita.  Each  person  was  to  have  the 
equivalent  of  eleven  meters  of  clothing  and  a  pair  of  shoes  per  year. 
Housing  requirements  were  estimated  at  thirty  square  meters  per 
urban  household  and  at  forty  to  sixty  square  meters  per  rural  house- 
hold. Essential  utilities  and  sanitation  were  to  be  furnished  by  the 
government.  Universal  primary  education  for  all  children  between 
five  and  ten  years  of  age  also  was  to  be  provided.  The  government 
was  responsible  for  supplying  teachers,  classrooms,  and  educational 
materials,  although  villagers  pitched  in  with  labor  and  supplies  to 
build  schoolhouses  (see  Education,  ch.  2).  The  population  growth 
rate  was  targeted  at  1.9  percent  by  2000  (down  from  2.6  percent 
in  the  1980s),  and  life  expectancy  was  to  increase  to  65  years  of 
age  by  2000  (up  from  almost  51  years  in  the  late  1980s).  The  in- 
fant mortality  rate  was  to  be  reduced  to  45  deaths  per  1,000  by 
the  year  2000;  World  Bank  (see  Glossary)  figures  placed  infant 


112 


Nepal:  The  Economy 


mortality  at  171  per  1,000  in  1965  and  at  126  per  1,000  in  1988. 
Universal  primary  health  services  also  were  to  be  ensured,  primarily 
by  the  government,  improved  social  services  provided  to  han- 
dicapped people,  law  and  order  maintained,  and  an  environment 
conducive  to  development  established  (see  Population,  ch.  2). 

Budgeting  Process 

Prior  to  1951,  there  was  no  budgeting  process.  Since  the  politi- 
cal changes  in  1951 ,  the  government  has  presented  a  budget  every 
fiscal  year  (FY — see  Glossary).  Until  1959  the  budget  was  pub- 
lished in  the  Nepal  Raj  Patra,  the  government  gazette.  Since  1959 
the  budget  has  first  been  presented  to  a  legislative  body  whenever 
one  existed  and  then  published. 

Regular  and  Development  Budget 

After  the  First  Five- Year  Plan  was  introduced  in  1955-56,  the 
budget  was  divided  into  two  parts — regular  and  development  (see 
table  11,  Appendix).  In  a  speech  delivered  on  July  13,  1990,  the 
minister  of  finance  presented  a  budget  with  four  major  objectives: 
to  direct  the  development  programs  by  eliminating  the  existing 
anomalies  and  by  making  them  more  realistic  and  productive,  as 
well  as  overseeing  their  consistency  in  directly  benefiting  the 
deprived  community;  to  rationalize  the  role  of  the  private  sector 
and  the  facilities  provided  by  the  government;  to  minimize  the  in- 
creasing hardship  faced  by  the  common  people;  and  to  start  a 
process  of  repaying  the  accumulated  financial  liabilities  of  the 
government.  Because  the  planned  expenditures  for  development 
were  rarely  met,  the  1990  budget  lowered  development  expendi- 
tures to  make  the  plan  more  realistic. 

The  1990  budget  allowed  for  total  expenditures  of  Rsl9.8  bil- 
lion. Revenue  was  estimated  to  be  just  over  RslO.l  billion.  The 
deficit  was  to  be  met  through  foreign  grants  (Rs2.5  billion),  for- 
eign loans  (Rs5.5  billion),  and  domestic  borrowing.  The  budget 
was  not  unique  in  terms  of  the  size  of  the  deficit  or  its  dependence 
on  foreign  grants  and  loans,  as  this  pattern  had  existed  for  more 
than  three  decades. 

Taxation 

Until  the  late  1950s,  the  two  major  sources  of  revenues  were  a 
land  tax  and  a  tariff  on  foreign  trade.  After  1959,  however,  in- 
come, sales,  and  property  taxes,  as  well  as  several  other  minor  taxes, 
were  introduced.  An  import-export  tax  and  various  business  tax- 
es, such  as  a  sales  tax,  were  the  dominant  sources  of  revenue.  A 
land  tax,  which  accounted  for  a  considerable  portion  of  revenue 


113 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

prior  to  1960,  no  longer  provided  an  important  source  of  revenue. 
Income  tax  on  individual  incomes  accounted  for  less  than  7  per- 
cent of  revenues.  Most  of  the  other  taxes  were  progressive  in  na- 
ture. In  the  late  1980s,  the  total  tax  burden  was  about  10  percent 
of  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary) — lower  than  in  the 
neighboring  countries  of  India,  Pakistan,  and  Sri  Lanka,  which 
taxed  at  rates  of  11  to  13  percent. 

Money  and  Banking 

Nepal's  first  commercial  bank,  the  Nepal  Bank  Limited,  was 
established  in  1937.  The  government  owned  51  percent  of  the  shares 
in  the  bank  and  controlled  its  operations  to  a  large  extent.  Nepal 
Bank  Limited  was  headquartered  in  Kathmandu  and  had  branches 
in  other  parts  of  the  country. 

There  were  other  government  banking  institutions.  Rastriya 
Banijya  Bank  (National  Commercial  Bank),  a  state-owned  com- 
mercial bank,  was  established  in  1966.  The  Land  Reform  Savings 
Corporation  was  established  in  1966  to  deal  with  finances  related 
to  land  reforms. 

Nepal  had  two  other  specialized  financial  institutions.  Nepal  In- 
dustrial Development  Corporation,  a  state-owned  development 
finance  organization  headquartered  in  Kathmandu,  was  established 
in  1959  with  United  States  assistance  to  offer  financial  and  techni- 
cal assistance  to  private  industry.  Although  the  government  invested 
in  the  corporation,  representatives  from  the  private  business  sec- 
tor also  sat  on  the  board  of  directors.  The  Co-operative  Bank,  which 
became  the  Agricultural  Development  Bank  in  1967,  was  the  main 
source  of  financing  for  small  agribusinesses  and  cooperatives. 
Almost  75  percent  of  the  bank  was  state-owned;  21  percent  was 
owned  by  the  Nepal  Rastra  Bank,  and  5  percent  by  cooperatives 
and  private  individuals.  The  Agricultural  Development  Bank  also 
served  as  the  government's  implementing  agency  for  small  farm- 
ers' group  development  projects  assisted  by  the  Asian  Development 
Bank  (see  Glossary)  and  financed  by  the  United  Nations  Develop- 
ment Programme.  The  Ministry  of  Finance  reported  in  1990  that 
the  Agricultural  Development  Bank,  which  is  vested  with  the  leading 
role  in  agricultural  loan  investment,  had  granted  loans  to  only  9 
percent  of  the  total  number  of  farming  families  since  1965. 

Since  the  1960s,  both  commercial  and  specialized  banks  have 
expanded.  As  a  result,  more  businesses  and  households  had  better 
access  to  the  credit  market  although  the  credit  market  had  not  ex- 
panded. 

In  the  mid-1980s,  three  foreign  commercial  banks  opened 
branches  in  Nepal.  The  Nepal  Arab  Bank  was  co-owned  by  the 


114 


Nepal:  The  Economy 


Emirates  Bank  International  Limited  (Dubai),  the  Nepalese  govern- 
ment, and  the  Nepalese  public.  The  Nepal  Indosuez  Bank  was  joint- 
ly owned  by  the  Banque  Indosuez  (a  French  institution),  Rastriya 
Banijya  Bank,  Rastriya  Beema  Sansthan  (National  Insurance  Cor- 
poration), and  the  Nepalese  public.  Nepal  Grindlays  Bank  was 
co-owned  by  a  British  firm  called  Grindlays  Bank,  local  financial 
interests,  and  the  Nepalese  public. 

Nepal  Rastra  Bank  was  created  in  1956  as  the  central  bank.  Its 
function  was  to  supervise  commercial  banks  and  to  guide  the  ba- 
sic monetary  policy  of  the  nation.  Its  major  aims  were  to  regulate 
the  issue  of  paper  money;  secure  countrywide  circulation  of  Nepa- 
lese currency  and  achieve  stability  in  its  exchange  rates;  mobilize 
capital  for  economic  development  and  for  trade  and  industry 
growth;  develop  the  banking  system  in  the  country,  thereby  en- 
suring the  existence  of  banking  facilities;  and  maintain  the  eco- 
nomic interests  of  the  general  public.  Nepal  Rastra  Bank  also  was 
to  oversee  foreign  exchange  rates  and  foreign  exchange  reserves. 

Prior  to  the  establishment  of  Nepal  Rastra  Bank,  Kathmandu 
had  little  control  over  its  foreign  currency  holdings.  Indian  rupees 
were  the  prevalent  medium  of  exchange  in  most  parts  of  the  coun- 
try. Nepalese  currency  was  used  mostly  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley 
and  the  surrounding  hill  areas.  The  existence  of  a  dual  currency 
system  made  it  hard  for  the  government  to  know  the  status  of  In- 
dian currency  holdings  in  Nepal.  The  exchange  rates  between  In- 
dian and  Nepalese  rupees  were  determined  in  the  marketplace. 
Between  1932  and  1955,  the  value  of  100  Indian  rupees  varied  be- 
tween Rs71  and  Rsl77.  The  government  entered  the  currency  mar- 
ket with  a  form  of  fixed  exchange  rate  between  the  two  currencies 
in  1958.  An  act  passed  in  1960  sought  to  regulate  foreign  exchange 
transactions.  Beginning  in  the  1960s,  the  government  made  spe- 
cial efforts  to  use  Nepalese  currency  inside  the  country  as  a  medi- 
um of  exchange. 

It  was  only  after  the  signing  of  the  1960  Trade  and  Transit  Treaty 
with  India  that  Nepal  had  full  access  to  foreign  currencies  other 
than  the  Indian  rupee.  Prior  to  the  treaty,  all  foreign  exchange  earn- 
ings went  to  the  Central  Bank  of  India,  and  all  foreign  currency 
needs  were  provided  by  the  Indian  government.  After  1960  Nepal 
had  full  access  to  all  foreign  currency  transactions  and  directly  con- 
trolled its  exports  and  imports  with  countries  other  than  India. 

As  a  result  of  the  treaty,  the  government  had  to  separate  Indian 
currency  (convertible  currency  because  of  free  convertibility)  from 
other  currencies  (nonconvertible  currency  because  it  was  directly 
controlled  by  Nepal  Rastra  Bank).  In  1991  government  statistics 
still  separated  trade  with  India  from  trade  with  other  countries. 


115 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Tables  showing  international  reserves  listed  convertible  and  non- 
convertible  foreign  exchange  reserves  separately. 

Foreign  Trade 

Nepal's  traditional  trade  was  with  India  (see  table  12,  Appen- 
dix). In  the  1950s,  over  90  percent  of  its  foreign  trade  was  con- 
ducted with  India.  Most  of  Nepal's  basic  consumer  goods  were 
imported  from  India,  and  most  of  its  agricultural  exports  went  to 
India.  India  also  supplied  Nepal's  industries  with  coal,  cement, 
machines,  trucks,  and  spare  parts. 

Because  goods  moved  by  land  for  at  least  a  few  hundred  kilo- 
meters through  India,  a  good  relationship  with  India  was  essential 
for  the  smooth  transport  of  goods  to  and  from  foreign  countries 
(see  Relations  with  India;  ch.  4;  India,  ch.  5).  The  March  1989 
impasse  in  negotiations  for  trade  and  transit  treaties  with  India 
hence  seriously  damaged  Nepal's  economy  (see  table  13,  Appen- 
dix). The  transit  treaty  had  allowed  goods  from  third  countries  en- 
tering at  Calcutta  to  pass  through  to  Nepal  and  exempted  them 
from  customs  and  transit  duties.  The  treaty  allowed  trade  to  tran- 
sit at  twenty-one  border  points,  and  primary  commodities  were 
essentially  duty-free  in  both  directions.  Imports  from  India  had 
no  quantitative  restrictions  and  low  tariffs. 

As  a  result  of  the  breakdown  in  negotiations,  only  two  trade  and 
transit  points  remained  open — both  in  eastern  Nepal.  Nepal's  ex- 
ports to  India  were  subjected  to  high  tariffs,  and  imports  from  In- 
dia also  carried  increased  costs.  The  dispute  was  not  solved  until 
June  1990,  when  Kathmandu  and  New  Delhi  agreed  to  restore  eco- 
nomic relations  to  the  status  quo  ante  of  April  1,  1987. 

Although  India  remained  an  important  trade  partner  in  1991, 
foreign  trade  with  India  has  been  on  the  decline  vis-a-vis  other  coun- 
tries since  1960.  Trade  with  India  decreased  from  more  than  70 
percent  in  1975  to  about  27  percent  of  total  trade  in  1989.  However, 
the  trade  deficit  with  India  in  this  period  increased  at  an  annual 
rate  of  about  11  percent. 

To  increase  exports,  Kathmandu  introduced  some  fiscal  and 
monetary  measures,  including  the  Export  Entidement  Program  and 
the  Dual  Foreign  Exchange  rate,  along  with  cash  grants,  income 
tax  rebates,  and  low  tariffs.  Until  the  trade  and  transit  dispute  of 
1989,  exports  had  increased  by  11  percent  or  more  per  year  since 
1975.  Nepal's  major  exports  were  clothing,  carpets,  grain,  and 
leather  goods.  In  1989-90  the  carpet  industry  was  responsible  for 
producing  54  percent  of  Nepal's  exports.  In  FY  1988,  India  received 
38  percent  of  Nepal's  exports,  the  United  States  23  percent,  Britain 


116 


Newari  architecture  in  Durbar  Square,  Patau 
Bustling  Bhotahiti  Square,  Kathmandu 
Courtesy  Harvey  Follender 


117 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

6  percent,  and  other  European  countries  9  percent  (see  table  14; 
table  15,  Appendix). 

Imports  increased  at  a  faster  rate  than  exports.  Since  the  1970s, 
the  foreign  trade  deficit  had  increased  in  most  years.  Nepal's 
primary  imports  were  petroleum  products,  fertilizer,  and  machin- 
ery; the  other  chief  imports  were  boots  and  shoes,  cement, 
cigarettes,  iron  and  steel,  medicines,  salt,  sugar,  tea,  and  textiles. 
India  supplied  36  percent  of  imports,  Japan  13  percent,  European 
countries  4  percent,  and  the  United  States  1  percent  in  FY  1988. 
Receipts  from  service  and  transfer  payments  were  insufficient  to 
finance  trade  deficits.  This  imbalance  has  resulted  in  an  increase 
in  the  current  account  deficit  (see  table  16;  table  17,  Appendix). 

In  March  1989,  the  government  introduced  the  Open  General 
License  as  a  step  to  support  the  Structural  Adjustment  Program. 
It  included  inputs  for  existing  industries — raw  wool,  cotton  yarn, 
and  cotton  fabrics.  The  program  also  allowed  supports  for  petroleum 
products,  coal,  tractors,  buses,  and  trucks,  as  well  as  for  some  house- 
hold items,  such  as  ovens  and  toasters.  In  May  1990,  however, 
Kathmandu  deleted  all  goods  except  raw  wool,  cotton  yarn,  petrole- 
um products,  coal,  and  newsprint  from  Open  General  License 
imports. 

The  government  also  introduced  an  auction  system  for  the  im- 
port of  goods.  The  goods  were  classified  in  three  categories:  in- 
dustrial raw  materials,  semiluxury  items,  and  luxury  items. 
Premiums  were  assigned  and  foreign  exchange  quotas  allocated  for 
each  category.  The  premium  for  raw  materials  was  lower  than  that 
for  luxury  items. 

Balance  of  Payments 

The  balance  of  payments  in  the  1980s  improved,  despite  a  con- 
tinued trade  deficit.  This  improvement  was  achieved  through  for- 
eign loans  and  assistance.  Nonetheless,  foreign  debt  was  increasing. 
Because  foreign  debt  and  the  balance  of  payments  were  intrinsi- 
cally linked,  an  improvement  in  one  area  was  at  the  expense  of 
the  other.  Between  1986  and  1990,  the  debt  service  ratio  increased 
from  an  average  of  under  7  percent  to  about  12  percent.  In  1989 
the  debt  service  ratio  skyrocketed  to  17  percent.  This  increase  was 
the  result  of  the  acquisition  of  two  commercial  aircraft  and  a  decline 
in  exports  caused  by  trade  and  transit  difficulties.  According  to 
World  Bank  figures,  by  mid- 1989  official  foreign  debt  outstanding 
and  disbursed  was  approximately  US$1 .3  billion.  There  also  was  a 
deficit  in  the  balance  of  payments  of  convertible  Indian  currency. 

The  Structural  Adjustment  Program  addressed  the  trade  de- 
ficit and  sought  to  increase  the  speed  of  economic  development. 


118 


Nepal:  The  Economy 


Although  exports  increased  in  FY  1988  by  34  percent  over  the  previ- 
ous year,  Nepal  still  imported  much  more  than  it  exported.  In  FY 
1988,  exports  were  US$187  million  (up  from  US$139  million  the 
previous  year),  but  imports  were  US$630  million,  up  from  US$507 
the  previous  year.  Nonetheless,  more  efficient  use  of  foreign  aid, 
increased  earnings  from  exports,  tourism,  and  other  services  im- 
proved the  balance  of  payments  situation  and  increased  the  inter- 
national reserves  through  FY  1989.  Foreign  exchange  reserves  also 
had  increased,  mostly  because  of  loans  from  the  World  Bank  and 
the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary)  for  the 
Structural  Adjustment  Program,  as  well  as  loans  from  the  Asian 
Development  Bank.  Both  Kuwait  and  Saudi  Arabia  had  made  loans 
that  alleviated  the  balance  of  trade  deficit.  The  trade  and  transit 
problems  with  India  that  began  in  March  1989,  however,  erased 
those  gains  and  resulted  in  tremendous  financial  hardships. 

Foreign  Aid 

Nepal  has  been  a  recipient  of  foreign  assistance  since  1952  when 
it  joined  the  Colombo  Plan  for  Cooperative,  Economic,  and  So- 
cial Development  in  Asia  and  the  Pacific  (Colombo  Plan — see  Glos- 
sary). The  plan  was  established,  under  a  slightly  different  name, 
by  the  British  Commonwealth  countries  in  1951 .  During  the  1950s, 
many  Nepalese  received  scholarships  through  the  Colombo  Plan 
to  go  to  various  countries  for  studies  in  technical  and  professional 
areas. 

During  the  1950s,  all  other  aid  was  in  the  form  of  grants.  The 
bulk  of  assistance  was  directed  toward  developing  agriculture,  trans- 
portation infrastructure,  and  power  generation.  Other  areas  tar- 
geted for  assistance  were  communications,  industry,  education,  and 
health.  India  and  the  United  States  each  were  responsible  for  more 
than  one-third  of  all  grants.  Both  countries  established  aid  mis- 
sions to  Nepal  and  directed  aid  to  special  projects.  Other  major 
donors  during  the  1950s  were  China  and  the  Soviet  Union.  Brit- 
ain, Switzerland,  Australia,  Japan,  and  New  Zealand  also  were 
involved  in  lesser  assistance  programs.  The  United  Nations  (UN) 
provided  some  technical  assistance. 

Until  the  mid-1960s,  Nepal  depended  mostly,  if  not  totally,  on 
foreign  grants  for  all  its  development  projects.  Most  of  these  grants 
were  on  a  bilateral  basis.  Grants  from  India  helped  to  build  the 
airport  in  Kathmandu,  the  Kosi  Dam,  and  various  irrigation 
projects.  The  Soviet  Union  helped  to  build  cigarette  and  sugar  fac- 
tories, a  hydroelectric  plant,  and  part  of  the  East- West  Highway. 
Grants  from  China  helped  to  construct  roads;  a  trolley  bus  line 
in  Kathmandu;  and  leather  and  shoe,  brick,  and  tile  factories. 


119 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

United  States  grants  supported  village  development,  agriculture, 
education,  and  public  health.  The  United  States  also  helped  to  start 
the  Nepal  Industrial  Development  Corporation,  which  granted 
loans  to  several  industries  (see  Money  and  Banking,  this  ch.). 

Beginning  in  the  1960s,  some  bilateral  assistance  was  in  the  form 
of  loans.  The  loan  share  of  foreign  aid  increased  from  under  4  per- 
cent between  1965  and  1970  to  more  than  25  percent  by  the  1985-88 
period  (see  table  18,  Appendix). 

In  the  1970s,  multilateral  assistance  programs  started  to  play  an 
important  role  in  development  planning  and  accounted  for  more 
than  70  percent  of  funding  for  development  planning.  By  the  end 
of  the  1980s,  the  great  majority  of  foreign  aid  was  in  the  form  of 
multilateral  assistance  programs.  The  major  sources  of  borrowing 
or  grants  for  these  programs  were  the  International  Development 
Association  of  the  World  Bank  and  the  Asian  Development  Bank. 
Most  of  these  loans  could  be  characterized  as  soft  loans  (see 
Glossary). 

Sources  of  foreign  aid  were  numerous.  Eleven  UN  agencies, 
seven  multilateral  lending  agencies  (such  as  the  World  Bank),  and 
eight  private  agencies  (for  example,  the  Ford  Foundation)  had  par- 
ticipated in  aid  programs.  At  least  seventeen  countries  offered 
bilateral  assistance.  Under  the  auspices  of  the  World  Bank,  the 
Nepal  Aid  Group  was  created  in  1976.  By  1987  sixteen  countries 
and  six  international  agencies  participated  in  the  group.  The  level 
of  commitment  from  the  Nepal  Aid  Group  had  increased  from 
Rsl.5  billion  in  1976-77  to  Rs5.6  billion  in  1987-88.  The  bulk 
of  foreign  aid  contributions  after  1976  came  from  this  group. 

Most  economic  development  projects  were  funded  with  exter- 
nal assistance  on  concessional  terms.  In  the  mid-  to  late  1980s, 
recorded  aid  disbursements  averaged  more  than  US$200  million 
annually — about  7  percent  of  GDP.  More  than  70  percent  of  the 
aid  was  in  the  form  of  grants;  the  remainder  was  in  the  form  of 
concessional  loans.  A  high  percentage  of  technical  assistance  and 
direct  aid  payments  was  not  documented.  Much  of  the  aid  grant- 
ed was  underused  (see  table  19,  Appendix). 

As  of  1991,  Nepal  was  receiving  external  assistance  in  the  form 
of  project  aid,  commodity  aid,  technical  assistance,  and  program 
aid.  Project  aid  funded  irrigation  programs,  hydroelectric  plants, 
and  roads.  Commodity  assistance  targets  included  fertilizers,  im- 
proved seeds,  and  construction  materials  provided  by  donor  aid 
agencies.  Technical  assistance  covered  services  of  experts  to  ad- 
vise the  government  in  training  indigenous  personnel  to  perform 
research  in  technological  fields  and  resulted  in  the  development 


120 


Nepal:  The  Economy 


of  skilled  labor.  Program  aid  supported  various  projects,  in  par- 
ticular the  agricultural  and  health  fields. 

Dependence  on  foreign  aid  was  increasing.  Between  1984  and 
1987,  foreign  aid  as  a  percentage  of  GNP  increased  from  under 
8  percent  to  almost  13  percent.  Debt  service  as  a  percentage  of  GDP 
increased  from  less  than  0.1  percent  in  1974-75  to  almost  1  per- 
cent in  1987-88.  Outstanding  debt  in  this  period  increased  from 
Rs346  million  to  almost  Rs21  billion. 

From  FY  1970  through  FY  1988,  United  States  commitments, 
including  United  States  Export-Import  Bank  (Eximbank — see  Glos- 
sary) funds,  totaled  US$285  million.  In  the  1980s,  bilateral  United 
States  economic  assistance  channelled  through  the  Agency  for  In- 
ternational Development  averaged  US$15  million  annually.  The 
United  States  also  contributed  to  various  international  institutions 
and  private  voluntary  organizations  that  serviced  Nepal  for  a  total 
contribution  to  multilateral  aid  in  excess  of  US$250  million  in  the 
1980s.  Other  Western  countries  and  official  development  assistance 
(ODA — see  Glossary)  and  bilateral  commitments  for  the  1980-87 
period  totaled  US$1 .8  billion.  The  Organization  of  the  Petroleum 
Exporting  Countries  (OPEC)  provided  US$30  million  in  bilateral 
aid  from  1979  to  1989.  Communist  countries  provided  US$273 
million  in  aid  from  1970  to  1988.  From  1981  until  1988,  Japan  was 
the  premier  source  of  bilateral  ODA  for  Nepal,  accounting  for  more 
than  one-third  of  all  funds.  The  second  biggest  donor  during  that 
period  was  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany). 

Labor 

Workers'  rights  and  organized  labor  were  in  transition  in 
mid-1991.  During  the  late  1940s  and  early  1950s,  some  labor  dis- 
putes led  to  strikes  and  lockouts,  and  labor  unions  sprang  up  in 
various  factories.  In  1957  the  government  announced  the  Indus- 
trial Policy  of  Nepal,  under  which  it  undertook  the  responsibility 
of  promoting,  assisting,  and  regulating  industries. 

The  Factories  and  Factory  Workers'  Act  of  1959  established  rules 
and  regulations  to  govern  labor-management  relationships  and 
working  conditions  in  factories.  The  1977  amended  version  of  the 
act  provided  for  a  six-day,  forty-eight-hour  work  week,  thirty  days 
annually  for  holidays  and  fifteen  days  annually  for  sick  leave,  and 
some  health  and  safety  standards  and  benefits.  Implementation  of 
the  act,  a  responsibility  of  the  Ministry  of  Labor  and  Social  Ser- 
vices, was  not  always  forthcoming,  however,  and  was  only  some- 
what affected  by  the  success  of  the  prodemocracy  movement. 

A  revision  of  the  body  of  labor  laws  was  pending  in  mid- 1991; 
it  was  to  include  a  code  that  defined  and  regulated  workers'  rights. 


121 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Labor  unions,  restricted  prior  to  the  July  1991  repeal  of  the  Or- 
ganization and  Control  Act  of  1963,  still  were  limited.  Estimates 
suggested  that  only  approximately  3  percent  of  the  economically 
active  population,  or  30  percent  of  nonagricultural  workers,  were 
union  members. 

Because  of  limited  industrialization,  unemployment  and  partic- 
ularly underemployment  were  quite  high.  In  1977  the  National 
Planning  Commission  undertook  a  survey,  which  determined  un- 
employment to  be  5.6  percent  in  rural  areas  and  almost  6  percent 
in  urban  areas.  Underemployment  was  estimated  to  be  about  63 
percent  in  rural  areas  and  about  45  percent  in  urban  areas.  In  1981 
the  Asian  Regional  Team  for  Employment  Production  estimated 
the  unemployment  and  underemployment  rates  to  range  from  2 1 
to  28  percent  in  the  Tarai  Region  and  from  37  to  47  percent  in 
the  Hill  Region.  The  availability  of  nonagricultural  employment 
opportunities  in  the  labor  force  was  reported  at  approximately 
600,000  positions  in  1981.  Underemployment  for  all  of  Nepal  was 
reported  to  range  from  25  to  40  percent  in  1987;  unemployment 
nationally  stood  at  5  percent. 

Agriculture 

Agriculture  dominated  the  economy.  In  the  late  1980s,  it  was 
the  livelihood  for  more  than  90  percent  of  the  population,  although 
only  approximately  20  percent  of  the  total  land  area  was  cultiva- 
ble. Agriculture  accounted  for,  on  average,  about  60  percent  of 
the  GDP  and  approximately  75  percent  of  exports.  Since  the  for- 
mulation of  the  Fifth  Five-Year  Plan  (1975-80),  agriculture  has 
been  the  highest  priority  because  economic  growth  was  dependent 
on  both  increasing  the  productivity  of  existing  crops  and  diversifying 
the  agricultural  base  for  use  as  industrial  inputs. 

In  trying  to  increase  agricultural  production  and  diversify  the 
agricultural  base,  the  government  focused  on  irrigation,  the  use 
of  fertilizers  and  insecticides,  the  introduction  of  new  implements 
and  new  seeds  of  high-yield  varieties,  and  the  provision  of  credit. 
The  lack  of  distribution  of  these  inputs,  as  well  as  problems  in 
obtaining  supplies,  however,  inhibited  progress.  Although  land 
reclamation  and  settlement  were  occurring  in  the  Tarai  Region, 
environmental  degradation — ecological  imbalance  resulting  from 
deforestation — also  prevented  progress  (see  The  Land,  ch.  2). 

Although  new  agricultural  technologies  helped  increase  food 
production,  there  still  was  room  for  further  growth.  Past  experience 
indicated  bottlenecks,  however,  in  using  modern  technology  to 
achieve  a  healthy  growth.  The  conflicting  goals  of  producing  cash 
crops  both  for  food  and  for  industrial  inputs  also  were  problematic. 


122 


Oxen  in  fields,  Tulsipur  area,  Rapti  Zone  in  the  Tarai  Region 

Courtesy  John  N.  Gunning 

The  production  of  crops  fluctuated  widely  as  a  result  of  these 
factors  as  well  as  weather  conditions.  Although  agricultural  produc- 
tion grew  at  an  average  annual  rate  of  2.4  percent  from  1974  to 
1989,  it  did  not  keep  pace  with  population  growth,  which  increased 
at  an  average  annual  rate  of  2.6  percent  over  the  same  period.  Fur- 
ther, the  annual  average  growth  rate  of  food  grain  production  was 
only  1.2  percent  during  the  same  period. 

There  were  some  successes.  Fertile  lands  in  the  Tarai  Region 
and  hardworking  peasants  in  the  Hill  Region  provided  greater  sup- 
plies of  food  staples  (mostly  rice  and  corn),  increasing  the  daily 
caloric  intake  of  the  population  locally  to  over  2,000  calories  per 
capita  in  1988  from  about  1,900  per  capita  in  1965.  Moreover, 
areas  with  access  to  irrigation  facilities  increased  from  approximately 
6,200  hectares  in  1956  to  nearly  583,000  hectares  by  1990  (see  ta- 
ble 20,  Appendix). 

Rice  was  the  most  important  cereal  crop.  In  1966  total  rice 
production  amounted  to  a  little  more  than  1  million  tons;  by  1989 
more  than  3  million  tons  were  produced.  Fluctuation  in  rice  produc- 
tion was  very  common  because  of  changes  in  rainfall;  overall, 
however,  rice  production  had  increased  following  the  introduction 
of  new  cultivation  techniques  as  well  as  increases  in  cultivated  land. 
By  1988  approximately  3.9  million  hectares  of  land  were  under 


123 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

paddy  cultivation.  In  1966  approximately  500,000  tons  of  corn, 
the  second  major  food  crop,  were  produced.  By  1989  corn  produc- 
tion had  increased  to  over  1  million  tons. 

Other  food  crops  included  wheat,  millet,  and  barley,  but  their 
contribution  to  the  agricultural  sector  was  small  (see  table  21 ,  Ap- 
pendix). Increased  production  of  cash  crops — used  as  input  to  new 
industries — dominated  in  the  early  1970s.  Sugarcane  and  tobacco 
also  showed  considerable  increases  in  production  from  the  1970s 
to  the  1980s.  Potatoes  and  oilseed  production  had  shown  moderate 
growth  since  1980.  Medicinal  herbs  were  grown  in  the  north  on 
the  slopes  of  the  Himalayas,  but  increases  in  production  were  limited 
by  continued  environmental  degradation.  According  to  government 
statistics,  production  of  milk,  meat,  and  fruit  had  improved  but 
as  of  the  late  1980s  still  had  not  reached  a  point  where  nutritionally 
balanced  food  was  available  to  most  people.  Additionally,  as  of  1989 
the  increases  in  meat  and  milk  production  had  not  met  the  desired 
level  of  output. 

Food  grains  contributed  76  percent  of  total  crop  production  in 
1988-89.  In  1989-90  despite  poor  weather  conditions  and  a  lack 
of  agricultural  inputs — particularly  fertilizer — production  increased 
by  5  percent.  In  fact,  severe  weather  fluctuations  often  affected 
production  levels.  Some  of  the  gains  in  production  through  the  1980s 
were  due  to  increased  productivity  of  the  work  force  (about  7  per- 
cent over  fifteen  years);  other  gains  were  due  to  increased  land  use 
and  favorable  weather  conditions. 

Land  Reform 

Nepal  long  had  been  under  a  feudal  system  where  a  small  num- 
ber of  landlords  held  most  of  the  agricultural  land  (see  Infighting 
among  Aristocratic  Factions,  ch.  1).  The  state  extended  its  con- 
trol over  the  land  by  the  administrative  device  of  making  land  grants 
and  assignments  and  raising  revenues.  Most  of  the  landlords  who 
were  granted  state  lands  were  not  directly  involved  in  farming  but 
contracted  with  tenant  farmers  on  a  customary,  and  hereditary, 
basis.  The  basic  purpose  of  land  reform  was  to  protect  the  tenant 
farmers,  take  away  excess  holdings  from  landlords,  and  distribute 
property  to  farmers  with  small  landholdings  (holding  one  to  three 
hectares)  and  landless  agrarian  households. 

Efforts  at  land  reform  began  with  the  enactment  of  the  Land 
and  Cultivation  Record  Complilation  Act  in  1956  and  continued 
with  the  Lands  Act  in  1957  when  the  government  began  to  com- 
pile tenants'  records.  Although  these  acts  facilitated  land  reform, 


124 


Nepal:  The  Economy 


the  lot  of  the  small  farmer  did  not  improve,  and  further  efforts  were 
made.  The  Agricultural  Reorganization  Act,  passed  in  1963,  and 
the  Land  Reform  Act,  passed  in  1964,  emphasized  security  for 
tenant  farmers  and  put  a  ceiling  on  landholdings.  There  were  several 
loopholes  in  the  acts,  however,  and  large  landholders  continued 
to  control  most  of  the  lands.  There  was  some  success  in  protecting 
the  rights  of  tenant  farmers,  but  not  much  was  achieved  in  land 
redistribution.  As  of  1990,  average  landholdings  remained  small 
(see  table  8,  Appendix). 

Forests 

From  1950  to  1980,  Nepal  lost  half  of  its  forest  cover.  The  first 
scientific  measurement  of  forest  resources  was  done  in  a  1964  sur- 
vey, which  estimated  about  6.5  million  hectares  of  forest  area.  Later 
studies  indicated  that  as  of  1987  the  forest  area  in  the  hills  had  re- 
mained the  same  but  that  elsewhere  forests  had  been  degraded. 
By  1988  forests  covered  only  approximately  30  percent  of  the  land 
area.  Deforestation  was  typical  of  much  of  the  country  and  was 
linked  to  increased  demands  for  grazing  land,  farmland,  and  fod- 
der as  the  animal  and  human  populations  grew.  Further,  most  of 
the  population's  energy  needs  were  met  by  firewood.  All  these  fac- 
tors exacerbated  deforestation. 

Fuelwood  needs  of  the  population  mainly  resulted  from  the  lack 
of  alternative  sources  of  energy.  This  fact  was  particularly  evident 
during  the  1989  trade  and  transit  impasse  with  India  because  the 
dispute  resulted  in  a  shortage  of  domestic  cooking  fuel.  As  a  result 
of  the  decreased  availability  of  kerosene  during  this  period,  the  de- 
mand for  fuelwood  rose  sharply  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley,  and 
fuelwood  consumption  increased  by  an  estimated  415  percent. 

Deforestation  caused  erosion  and  complicated  cultivation,  affect- 
ing the  future  productivity  of  agricultural  lands.  Although  several 
laws  to  counter  degradation  had  been  enacted,  the  results  were 
modest,  and  government  plans  for  afforestation  had  not  met  their 
targets.  The  government  also  established  the  Timber  Corporation 
of  Nepal,  the  Fuelwood  Corporation,  and  the  Forest  Products  De- 
velopment Board  to  harvest  the  forests  in  such  a  way  that  their 
degradation  would  be  retarded.  In  1988-89  the  Fuelwood  Corpo- 
ration merged  with  the  Timber  Corporation  of  Nepal,  but  forest 
management  through  these  and  other  government  agencies  had 
made  very  little  progress.  In  FY  1989,  more  than  28,000  hectares 
were  targeted  for  afforestation,  but  only  approximately  23,000  hect- 
ares were  afforested  that  year. 


125 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


GDP  1989  =  US  $2.9  billion 


NET  INDIRECT 
TAXES 
5.7% 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  Trends  in  Developing  Economies,  1990, 
Washington,  1990,  386. 

Figure  8.  Nepal:  Shares  of  Gross  Domestic  Product,  1989 

A  twenty-one-year  forestry  master  plan  was  devised  in  FY  1989 
to  stem  deforestation.  Implemented  with  the  help  of  the  Asian  De- 
velopment Bank,  the  program  targeted  reforestation  and  educa- 
tion. It  sought  to  maintain  the  forestation  level  at  37  percent  of 
land  area. 

Industry 

During  the  1950s  and  1960s,  Kathmandu  received  aid  commit- 
ments from  Moscow  and  Beijing.  During  the  1960s,  Soviet  and 
Chinese  aid  also  supported  development  of  a  few  government- 
owned  industries.  Most  of  the  industries  established  used  agricul- 
tural products  such  as  jute,  sugar,  and  tea  as  raw  materials.  Other 
industries  were  dependent  on  various  inputs  imported  from  other 
countries,  mainly  India. 

As  a  result  of  the  1989-90  trade  dispute  with  India,  many  in- 
puts were  unavailable,  causing  lower  capacity  utilization  in  some 
industries.  During  the  same  period,  Nepal  also  lost  India  as  its  tradi- 
tional market  for  certain  goods.  The  lack  of  industrial  materials 


126 


Nepal:  The  Economy 


such  as  coal,  furnace  oil,  machinery,  and  spare  parts  adversely  af- 
fected industrial  production. 

Industry  accounted  for  less  than  20  percent  of  total  GDP  in  the 
1980s  (see  fig.  8).  Relatively  small  by  international  standards,  most 
of  the  industries  established  in  the  1950s  and  1960s  were  developed 
with  government  protection.  Traditional  cottage  industries,  includ- 
ing basket-weaving  as  well  as  cotton  fabric  and  edible  oil  produc- 
tion, comprised  approximately  60  percent  of  industrial  output;  there 
also  were  attempts  to  develop  cottage  industries  to  produce  furni- 
ture, soap,  and  textiles.  The  remainder  of  industrial  output  came 
from  modern  industries,  such  as  jute  mills,  cigarette  factories,  and 
cement  plants. 

Manufacturing 

Among  the  modern  industries  were  large  manufacturing  plants, 
including  many  public  sector  operations.  The  major  manufactur- 
ing industries  produced  jute,  sugar,  cigarettes,  beer,  matches,  shoes, 
chemicals,  cement,  and  bricks.  The  garment  and  carpet  industries, 
targeted  at  export  production,  have  grown  rapidly  since  the 
mid-1980s  whereas  jute  production  has  declined.  Industrial  estates 
were  located  in  Patan  (also  called  Lalitpur),  Balaju,  Hetauda,  Pok- 
hara,  Dharan,  Butawal,  and  Nepalganj.  The  government  provid- 
ed the  land  and  buildings  for  the  industrial  estates,  but  the  industries 
themselves  were  mostly  privately  owned. 

The  1986-87  Nepal  Standard  Industrial  Classification  counted 
2,054  manufacturing  establishments  of  10  or  more  persons  from 
51  major  industry  groups,  employing  about  125,000  workers.  That 
same  year  the  total  output  from  these  industries  amounted  to  about 
RslO  billion;  value  added  was  estimated  at  almost  Rs3.6  billion. 
It  was  nearly  Rs5.1  billion  in  FY  1989.  By  FY  1989,  2,334  such 
establishments  were  recorded,  employing  about  141,000  persons. 

Private  Industry 

The  history  of  incorporated  private  firms  in  Nepal  is  short.  The 
Nepal  Companies  Act  of  1936  provided  for  the  incorporation  of 
industrial  enterprises  on  joint  stock  principle  with  limited  liabili- 
ty. The  first  such  firm,  Biratnagar  Jute  Mills,  was  a  collaborative 
venture  of  Indian  and  Nepalese  entrepreneurs.  It  was  formed  in 
1936  with  initial  capital  of  160,000  Indian  rupees. 

In  response  to  shortages  of  some  consumer  goods  during  World 
War  II  (1939-45),  fourteen  private  companies  emerged  in  such 
diverse  fields  as  mining,  electrical  generation,  and  paper  and  soap 
production.  The  initial  capital  invested  in  each  of  these  industries 
was  small.  In  1942  two  paper  mills  emerged  as  joint  ventures  of 


127 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Nepalese  and  Indian  entrepreneurs.  Industrial  growth  gained 
momentum  after  1945,  although  the  end  of  World  War  II  had 
reduced  the  scarcity  of  goods  and  caused  many  of  these  compa- 
nies to  incur  losses. 

Under  the  Nepal  Companies  Act,  there  was  no  provision  for  pri- 
vate limited  companies.  In  1951,  however,  a  new  act  was  im- 
plemented that  had  such  a  provision.  This  act  encouraged  the 
establishment  of  ninety-two  new  private  joint  stock  companies  be- 
tween 1952  and  1964.  Most  of  these  companies  were  much  smaller 
than  existing  companies.  Under  the  provisions  of  the  1951  act,  pub- 
lic disclosure  of  the  activities  of  the  firms  was  not  required,  whereas 
the  1936  act  allowed  substantial  government  intervention.  The  In- 
dustrial Enterprises  Act  of  1974  and  its  frequent  amendments  shifted 
the  government's  emphasis  on  growth  from  the  public  to  the  pri- 
vate sector.  However,  discrepancies  between  policy  and  practice 
were  evident,  and  the  public  sector  continued  to  be  favored. 

Public  Companies 

Public  companies  also  had  varied  success.  Between  1936  and 
1939,  twenty  public  companies  were  formed,  of  which  three  failed. 
Between  1945  and  1951,  thirty-five  public  firms  were  incorporat- 
ed, six  of  which  went  out  of  business.  Between  1936  and  1963, 
fifty-four  firms  were  incorporated,  but  at  the  end  of  1963  only  thirty- 
four  remained  in  operation.  The  success  of  public  companies  con- 
tinued to  be  erratic. 

Minerals 

Because  only  a  few  minerals  were  available  in  small  quantities 
for  commercial  utilization,  the  mineral  industry's  contribution  to 
the  economy  was  small.  Most  mineral  commodities  were  used  for 
domestic  construction.  The  principal  mineral  agency  was  the 
Department  of  Mines  and  Geology.  Geological  surveys  conducted 
in  the  past  had  indicated  the  possibility  of  major  metallic  and  in- 
dustrial mineral  deposits,  but  a  poor  infrastructure  and  lack  of  a 
skilled  work  force  inhibited  further  development  of  the  mineral  in- 
dustry. 

The  most  important  mineral  resources  exploited  were  limestone 
for  cement,  clay,  garnet,  magnetite,  and  talc.  Crude  magnetite 
production  declined  from  a  high  of  approximately  63,200  tons  in 
1986  to  approximately  28,000  tons  in  1989;  it  was  projected  to 
decline  further  to  25,000  tons  in  1990. 

In  1990  mineral  production  decreased  significantly,  largely  be- 
cause of  political  unrest.  Production  of  cement  fell  approximately 
51  percent  over  1989 — from  approximately  218,000  tons  to  about 


128 


Nepal:  The  Economy 


107,200  tons.  Production  of  clays  for  cement  manufacture  dropped 
from  7,206  tons  to  824  tons.  Lignite  production  decreased  19  per- 
cent, and  talc  production  fell  73  percent.  Ornamental  marble 
production,  however,  increased  in  1989 — by  100  percent  in  cut  mar- 
ble and  1,560  percent  in  marble  chips. 

Nonetheless,  the  mining  industry  had  the  potential  to  become 
a  more  important  part  of  the  economy,  as  new  mines  were  being 
planned  or  were  being  developed.  Two  cement  plants  already  were 
in  operation,  and  a  third  one  was  being  planned.  It  was  expected 
that  with  full  production  in  the  three  plants,  Nepal  might  become 
self-sufficient  in  cement.  A  magnetite  mine  and  pressuring  plant 
east  of  Kathmandu  had  completed  its  construction  phase  and  be- 
gan production  of  chalk  powder  (talcum  powder)  on  a  trial  basis 
in  1990.  A  high-grade  lead  and  zinc  mine  was  being  developed  north 
of  Kathmandu  in  the  region  of  Ganesh  Himal  and  was  expected 
to  become  operational  in  the  1990s,  although  raising  enough  capi- 
tal for  the  project  was  problematic.  Production  of  agricultural  lime 
in  1989  doubled  that  of  the  previous  year,  suggesting  that  progress 
was  being  made  towards  meeting  requirements  of  the  agricultural 
sector. 

Energy 

According  to  government  reports  for  1988-89,  approximately 
95  percent  of  energy  used  was  from  traditional  sources:  fuelwood 
(76  percent),  agricultural  products  (11  percent),  and  animal  waste 
(8  percent).  The  remaining  resources  consisted  of  petroleum  prod- 
ucts (over  3  percent),  coal  (over  1  percent),  and  electricity  (under 
1  percent).  Alternative  sources,  including  steam,  solar,  and  wind 
power,  also  were  used  on  a  very  small  scale. 

Despite  the  great  potential  for  hydroelectric  power,  most  of  the 
energy  used  by  the  Nepalese  came  from  its  forests  (see  Forests,  this 
ch.).  The  terrain,  lack  of  a  transportation  network,  and  the  need 
for  large  amounts  of  capital  investment  for  hydroelectric  plants  and 
electric  facilities  hindered  the  development  of  these  sources  of  en- 
ergy. The  uneven  distribution  of  resources,  however,  indicated  the 
importance  of  moving  away  from  excessive  dependence  on  fuel- 
wood  as  a  source  of  energy.  Nepal's  forests  were  rapidly  being 
degraded. 

In  the  early  1980s,  more  than  half  the  electric  energy  generated 
was  used  by  households,  and  only  one-third  was  used  by  the  in- 
dustrial sector.  The  share  of  electricity  use  by  the  household  sec- 
tor was  declining  in  the  late  1980s.  In  1985  about  6  percent  of  the 
population  had  access  to  electricity,  and  by  1991  electricity  was 
accessible  to  more  than  8  percent  of  the  population.  There  were 


129 


130 


Various  modes  of  transportation  on  New  Road,  Kathmandu 

Courtesy  Harvey  Follender 


131 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

no  regional  power  grids,  and  electricity  was  available  regularly  only 
in  the  capital  and  a  few  of  the  larger  population  centers.  Approxi- 
mately 15  percent  of  the  electricity  was  generated  by  diesel  plants. 

Some  estimates  indicated  Nepal's  hydroelectric  power  potential 
at  80  million  kilowatts — 2.6  percent  of  the  world's  capacity.  Only 
a  tiny  fraction  of  this  potential  energy  had  been  utilized  until  1960, 
and  by  1964  less  than  3,000  kilowatts  of  electricity  was  generated 
by  hydropower.  By  1989,  however,  in  excess  of  230,000  kilowatts 
of  electricity — more  than  80  percent  of  the  country's  installed  electric 
power — was  generated  by  hydroelectric  power.  Although  there  were 
difficulties,  the  output  of  electricity  had  grown.  For  example,  a 
60-megawatt  hydroelectric  project  known  as  Kulekhani  I,  funded 
by  the  World  Bank,  Kuwait,  and  Japan,  became  operational  in 
1982.  Kulekhani  II,  an  additional  32-megawatt  project,  was  com- 
pleted in  1987.  Kulekhani  III,  in  the  planning  stages  in  1990, 
projected  an  additional  17-megawatt  capacity.  It  was  estimated  that 
by  late  1990,  generating  capacity  would  be  at  least  237  megawatts. 

Feasibility  studies  and  engineering  designs  were  planned  for 
several  hydroelectric  projects  and  rural  electric  facilities.  Nepal  and 
India  had  joint  irrigation-hydroelectric  projects  on  the  Narayani 
(India's  Gandak  River),  Kosi,  and  Trisuli  rivers.  A  feasibility  study 
was  being  conducted  for  a  dam  project  to  harness  the  hydropower 
potential  of  the  Karnali  River.  Inasmuch  as  Nepal  could  not  use 
as  much  energy  as  it  could  produce,  the  potential  for  selling  excess 
energy  to  neighboring  countries  (especially  India)  existed.  The  ex- 
pansion of  electric  power,  however,  had  to  be  accompanied  by  the 
construction  of  transmission  lines  across  the  country,  a  project  re- 
quiring considerable  capital. 

The  Asian  Development  Bank  committed  funds  to  establish  a 
national  electricity  grid  with  hydroelectric  power  plants  on  the  Arun 
and  Marsyandi  rivers.  The  Marsyandi  site,  a  US$325  million 
project  with  a  69-megawatt  capacity,  was  commissioned  in  1990 
with  major  financing  provided  by  Germany,  Japan,  Kuwait,  Saudi 
Arabia,  the  Asian  Development  Bank,  and  the  World  Bank.  A 
404-megawatt  Arun  III  Project  was  planned,  but  construction  was 
not  scheduled  to  begin  until  1992,  and  completion  was  not  expect- 
ed until  1997. 

The  government  also  encouraged  establishing  biogas  plants  with 
help  from  the  Agriculture  Development  Bank.  More  than  1,000 
plants  were  erected  in  1988  and  1989.  Although  these  plants  were 
small,  they  were  capable  of  slowing  deforestation — at  least  for  the 
short  term. 

To  meet  energy  needs,  petroleum  products  were  imported.  In 
the  late  1980s,  more  than  40  percent  of  Nepal's  foreign  exchange 


132 


Nepal:  The  Economy 


earnings  were  spent  on  petroleum  imports — particularly  during  the 
trade  and  transit  dispute  with  India.  In  1988-89,  the  government 
contracted  with  two  foreign  companies  to  do  exploratory  drilling 
for  oil  and  gas.  A  joint  venture  of  Royal  Dutch  Shell  and  Triton 
Energy  received  a  concession  to  explore  for  petroleum  in  south- 
eastern Nepal,  but  the  companies  relinquished  their  contract  in 
May  1990  upon  drilling  dry  wells.  Nonetheless,  further  analysis 
of  the  area  was  being  carried  on,  and  other  exploration  blocks  were 
being  evaluated  and  traded  among  various  companies. 

Transportation 

The  inadequacy  of  the  transportation  system  assured  its  high 
priority  in  all  development  plans.  Nonetheless,  budget  allocations 
for  transport  and  communications  declined  by  more  than  half  from 
the  Fifth  Five-Year  Plan  (1975-80)  to  the  Seventh  Five- Year  Plan 
(1985-90).  Before  1960  the  bulk  of  goods  transported  used  human 
labor  and  animals.  Although  the  infrastructure  remained  under- 
developed, since  1960  the  building  of  paved  roads  has  helped  make 
the  transportation  of  both  goods  and  people  more  accessible  (see 
fig.  9).  By  the  early  1990s,  the  major  modes  of  transportation  were 
by  road  or  by  air;  however,  trails  still  were  used  to  transport  goods. 

The  1989  trade  and  transit  dispute  with  India  in  also  affected 
the  transportation  system.  There  were  acute  shortages  of  coal  and 
petroleum  products  as  well  as  spare  parts  supplied  by  India.  These 
shortages  hampered  the  domestic  transport  system;  the  shortages 
in  turn  affected  service  industries  and  tourism. 

Roads 

Nepal's  first  paved  road  was  built  with  aid  from  India  in  the 
early  1950s.  It  connected  Kathmandu  with  Raxaul  on  the  Indian 
border.  As  of  1991,  additional  roads  were  being  built,  primarily 
with  the  cooperation  of  India  but  also  the  United  States,  includ- 
ing an  East-West  Highway  through  southern  portions  of  the  coun- 
try. Other  roads,  in  various  stages  of  planning,  construction,  or 
already  completed,  were  built  with  assistance  from  Saudi  Arabia, 
India,  Britain,  the  Soviet  Union,  Switzerland,  China,  the  United 
States,  the  World  Bank,  and  the  Asian  Development  Bank. 

Prior  to  the  First  Five-Year  Plan,  Nepal  had  approximately  600 
kilometers  of  roads,  including  fair  weather  roads.  Although  tar- 
gets were  rarely  met  on  time,  road  construction  has  increased.  By 
mid-July  1989,  approximately  2,900  kilometers  of  paved  roads, 
1,600  kilometers  of  gravel  roads,  and  2,500  kilometers  of  earthen 
(fair  weather)  roads  were  in  existence.  Most  goods  and  passengers 


133 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


134 


Nepal:  The  Economy 


utilized  these  roads,  and  transit  no  longer  was  exclusively  through 
India. 

The  main  roads  consisted  of  east-west  and  north- south  highways. 
The  longest  highway  was  the  Mahendra  Highway,  or  East- West 
Highway.  Its  total  proposed  length  was  approximately  1,050  kilo- 
meters, of  which  850  kilometers  were  completed  as  of  1989.  The 
1 14-kilometer  Arniko  Highway,  which  connected  Kathmandu  with 
Kodari  on  the  Chinese  border,  was  constructed  with  Chinese  as- 
sistance. The  Siddhartha  Highway  was  constructed  with  India's 
help  and  connected  the  Pokhara  Valley  with  Sonauli  in  India's  Uttar 
Pradesh  state.  Some  of  the  other  completed  highways  (rajmarg)  run- 
ning east-west  were  the  Tribhuvan-Rajpath,  Prithvi,  and  Kodari 
highways.  Among  north-south  highways,  Gorkha-Narayangadh, 
Kohalpur-Surkhet,  Sindhuli-Bargachi,  and  Dhangadhi-Dadeldhura 
roads  were  mosdy  completed  in  the  early  1990s.  A  number  of  north- 
south  roads  were  being  constructed  to  connect  with  the  east-west 
Mahendra  Highway. 

Because  of  the  terrain,  building  and  maintaining  roads  were  very 
expensive.  Landslides  in  hilly  areas  during  monsoon  season  were 
very  common.  Nepal  also  had  several  rivers  and  creeks  running 
from  north  to  south  whose  levels  during  monsoon  season  were 
difficult  to  predict.  All  these  factors  caused  periodic  slowdowns  in 
the  movement  of  trucks  and  buses.  Nevertheless,  as  a  result  of  road 
expansion,  several  private  firms  ran  passenger  buses  and  trucks 
to  transport  goods.  From  1980  to  1990,  the  number  of  passenger 
vehicles  increased  by  more  than  100  percent.  During  FY  1990,  new 
vehicle  registrations  included  723  buses  and  minibuses,  240  trucks, 
and  1,831  jeeps,  cars,  and  pickup  vans. 

Railroads 

The  railroad  system  was  used  by  an  average  of  1 .5  million  pas- 
sengers annually  from  1985  to  1989.  Goods  transported  averaged 
between  15,000  and  19,000  tons  annually  during  that  same  period. 

Railroad  service  was  initiated  in  1928  and  generally  connected 
the  commercial  centers  of  the  Tarai  with  Indian  railheads  near  the 
southern  border.  The  Janakpur  Railway,  headquartered  in  Jay- 
nagar,  India,  was  a  fifty-three-kilometer  narrow-gauge  railroad  be- 
tween Jaynagar  and  Janakpur  and  Bijalpura  in  Nepal.  As  of  the 
late  1980s,  its  equipment  consisted  of  ten  steam  locomotives,  twenty- 
five  passenger  coaches  and  vans,  and  fifty- two  freight  wagons.  The 
Nepal  Government  Railway  consisted  of  forty-eight  kilometers  link- 
ing Amlekhganj  to  the  railhead  in  Raxaul,  India,  and  was  equipped 
with  seven  steam  locomotives,  twelve  coaches,  and  eighty-two  wag- 
ons. The  opening  of  a  north-south  highway,  however,  made  the 


135 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

railroad  service  from  Raxaul  to  Amlekhganj  somewhat  obsolete. 
The  Sixth  Five-Year  Plan  provided  for  construction  of  a  rail  line 
between  Udaipur  Garhi  in  eastern  Nepal  and  Calcutta. 

Ropeways 

Ropeways  using  cables  to  transport  freight  were  constructed  as 
part  of  an  effort  to  provide  transport  facilities  for  the  populace  and 
to  replace  human  and  animal  power  as  a  means  to  traverse  the 
difficult  terrain.  The  first  ropeway  was  initiated  in  1922  and  was 
extended  twice. 

In  the  early  1950s,  many  goods  were  transported  to  Kathman- 
du  using  ropeways.  Ropeways  have  become  less  important  with 
the  development  and  extension  of  roads.  Nonetheless,  the  forty- 
two-kilometer  ropeway  that  traverses  Hetauda  into  the  Kathman- 
du  Valley  still  was  operational  in  1991 .  The  transport  of  food,  con- 
struction materials,  and  heavy  goods  on  that  ropeway  could  be 
accomplished  at  the  rate  of  twenty-two  and  a  half  tons  of  freight 
per  hour.  During  the  1985  to  1989  period,  the  ropeway  carried 
approximately  12,000  tons  of  freight  per  year. 

Civil  Aviation 

Air  transportation  to  Kathmandu  from  India  started  around 
1950.  Although  the  primary  airport  is  Tribhuvan  International  Air- 
port outside  Kathmandu,  more  than  thirty  airfields  have  been  ad- 
ded since  the  1950s.  The  primary  domestic  air  routes  from 
Kathmandu  in  1991  were  to  Jumla,  Bhairahwa,  Biratnagar,  Nepal- 
ganj,  Gorkha,  and  Pokhara.  There  also  were  international  flights 
from  West  European  cities,  such  as  London  and  Frankfurt,  and 
Asian  cities,  including  Karachi,  Paro  (in  Bhutan),  New  Delhi,  Hong 
Kong,  and  Bangkok,  to  Kathmandu.  Several  airlines,  including 
Royal  Nepal  Airlines  (owned  by  the  government),  connected  Kath- 
mandu with  cities  in  other  parts  of  the  world.  These  flights  have 
facilitated  international  traffic  considerably.  Royal  Nepal  Airlines 
reported  approximately  452,000  passengers  in  FY  1986,  approxi- 
mately 569,200  passengers  in  FY  1988,  and  approximately  608,300 
passengers  in  FY  1990.  The  carrier  transported  almost  3,900  tons 
of  freight  in  FY  1986,  approximately  6,000  tons  in  FY  1988,  and 
about  7,260  tons  in  FY  1990.  The  Royal  Nepal  Airlines  fleet,  which 
was  to  be  increased  by  two  Boeing  757  aircraft  in  1991,  was  often 
disabled  by  poor  maintenance  and  lack  of  spare  parts  and  aircraft. 
In  the  absence  of  Nepalese  operations,  the  Soviet  Union's  Aeroflot, 
Bhutan's  Druk-Air,  and  Hong  Kong's  Dragonair  began  servicing 
Kathmandu  during  1990. 


136 


Airplane  at  an  unpaved 
landing  strip  at  Lukla, 
en  route  to  the  Khumbu 
region,  gateway  to  the 
Everest  area 
Courtesy 
Janet  MacDonald 


Other  Modes  of  Transportation 

Local  public  transportation  was  not  common  except  in  the  Kath- 
mandu  Valley.  A  trolley  bus  serviced  the  eastern  part  of  the  valley 
between  Kathmandu  and  Bhadgaon  (or  Bhaktapur),  carrying  about 
500,000  passengers  annually  during  the  late  1980s.  Sajha  (Co- 
operative Union)  buses  provided  passenger  service  in  Kathman- 
du and  to  other  locations  in  the  eastern  and  western  parts  of  the 
country. 

There  was  discussion  in  Kathmandu  of  developing  a  water  trans- 
portation system  to  utilize  the  rivers  passing  through  Nepal.  The 
combined  length  of  rivers  was  about  3,500  kilometers  (see  The  River 
System,  ch.  2).  The  government  pursued  feasibility  studies  with 
the  help  of  consultants,  mostly  foreign;  however,  studies  conduct- 
ed as  of  1991  were  not  encouraging. 

Communications 

Postal  services  have  been  in  existence,  although  extremely  slow 
and  with  limited  service,  since  the  Shah  and  Rana  periods.  With 
the  advancement  in  transportation  systems,  however,  postal  ser- 
vice also  had  improved.  In  FY  1985,  there  were  1,868  post  offices. 
By  FY  1990,  the  number  of  post  offices  had  increased  to  2,232, 
but  even  the  government  admitted  that  access  to  postal  service  for 
many  Nepalese  still  was  far  from  satisfactory. 


137 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Public  telephone  services  also  became  available  during  Rana  rule, 
but  service  was  limited.  Beginning  in  the  early  1950s,  a  few  hundred 
telephones  were  installed,  mostly  for  government  offices  and  mili- 
tary officers'  homes.  As  of  1989,  the  number  of  private  telephones 
had  increased  to  over  45,000,  and  most  of  the  urban  areas  had  tel- 
ephone service.  In  1986  there  were  twenty-six  telephone  exchanges; 
by  1990  there  were  forty- two  such  exchanges.  The  number  of  public 
call  offices  during  this  same  period  increased  from  twenty-one  to 
seventy- six.  International  telephone  and  telex  services  were  avail- 
able, as  were  facsimile  (fax)  services.  There  was  also  a  rudimen- 
tary radio  relay  network  with  fifty-eight  channels  nationwide  in 
1989.  In  addition,  there  were  fifty-five  point-to-point  shortwave 
stations  for  telephone  transmission  in  1990. 

Radio  Nepal,  transmitting  by  shortwave,  has  been  in  existence 
since  the  early  1950s.  In  1991  Nepal  had  six  AM  broadcast  sta- 
tions. Radio  was  a  good  source  of  news  and  entertainment  for  many 
Nepalese;  Radio  Nepal,  for  example,  provided  about  100  hours 
of  programming  every  week.  Estimates  of  the  total  number  of  ra- 
dio sets  ranged  from  600,000  to  2  million  in  1989. 

In  late  1985,  television  programming  began  on  a  small  scale  in 
Kathmandu.  In  1991  total  programming  was  only  three  hours  daily, 
with  an  additional  two  hours  on  Saturday  mornings.  The  single 
station,  Nepal  Television  had  a  transmitter  outside  Kathmandu 
and  transmitting  stations  in  Pokhara,  Biratnagar,  and  Hetauda. 
The  programs  of  foreign  television  organizations,  such  as  the  Ca- 
ble News  Network,  also  could  be  received  by  a  satellite  dish  in 
Nepal.  There  were  approximately  200,000  television  sets  in  1991, 
and  in  some  areas  the  government  provided  television  sets  for  com- 
munity viewing. 

Tourism 

Tourism  was  a  major  source  of  foreign  exchange  earnings.  Es- 
pecially since  Mount  Everest  (Sagarmatha  in  Nepali)  was  first 
climbed  by  Sir  Edmund  Hillary  and  Tensing  Sherpa  in  1953,  the 
Himalayas  have  attracted  foreigners  to  Nepal.  Mountaineering  and 
hiking  were  of  considerable  interest  as  were  rafting,  canoeing,  and 
hang  gliding.  Tourism  was  facilitated  with  the  opening  of  airways 
to  Kathmandu  and  other  parts  of  the  country  and  the  easing  of 
travel  restrictions. 

In  the  1950s,  there  was  a  shortage  of  hotels.  Beginning  in  the 
1960s,  the  government  encouraged  the  building  of  hotels  and  other 
tourist  facilities  through  loans.  According  to  government  statistics, 
between  1985  and  1988  the  number  of  hotel  rooms  increased  from 
under  22,000  to  more  than  27,000. 


138 


Porters  at  a  rest  stop  along  the  route  to  Sedua 
Courtesy  Linda  Galantin 

Prior  to  the  trade  impasse  with  India  that  began  in  March  1989, 
tourism  had  grown  by  more  than  10  percent  per  year  for  most  of 
the  1980s.  Between  1985  and  1988,  the  number  of  tourists  increased 
from  approximately  181,000  to  about  266,000.  More  than  80  per- 
cent of  the  tourists  arrived  in  the  country  by  air. 

In  FY  1985,  more  than  US$40  million  worth  of  foreign  exchange 
was  earned  through  tourism.  By  FY  1988,  this  amount  had  in- 
creased to  more  than  US$64  million.  In  FY  1989,  tourism  account- 
ed for  more  than  3.5  percent  of  GDP  and  about  25  percent  of  total 
foreign  exchange  earnings.  The  1989  trade  and  transit  impasse  with 
India  negatively  affected  tourism  because  the  transport  and  ser- 
vice sectors  of  the  economy  lacked  supplies.  Beginning  in  FY  1990, 
however,  Kathmandu  initiated  a  policy  to  allocate  fuel  on  a  pri- 
ority basis  to  tour  operators  and  hotels. 

Problems  and  Prospects 

Nepal  was  a  resource  poor  country.  Although  it  had  made  some 
progress  since  the  1950s,  it  still  was  well  behind  most  countries  in 
the  world  as  of  1991 .  Among  the  issues  it  needed  to  address  were 
changes  in  economic  policy,  international  debt,  low  labor  produc- 
tivity, income  distribution,  and  population  growth. 


139 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

In  the  economic  policy  area,  the  performance  of  public  enter- 
prises needed  improvement.  Most  of  the  country's  large-scale  firms 
were  in  the  public  sector,  and  many  of  these  enterprises  either  were 
protected  or  subsidized,  which  inhibited  their  efficiency.  Most  public 
enterprises  also  lacked  a  sound  financial  footing.  More  than  fifty 
public  enterprises  dominated  major  sectors  of  the  economy.  These 
enterprises  included  energy,  basic  utilities,  oil,  telecommunications, 
water  supply,  cement,  jute,  tobacco,  and  sugar.  Some  of  these  en- 
terprises, for  example,  the  Agricultural  Inputs  Corporation  and 
the  Nepal  Food  Corporation,  incurred  losses  year  after  year. 

Foreign  indebtedness  was  also  problematic.  Compared  with  many 
less-developed  countries,  Nepal's  foreign  debts  were  not  very  high. 
However,  these  debts  were  increasing.  At  the  end  of  the  1980s, 
the  value  of  merchandise  imports  was  more  than  three  times  that 
of  merchandise  exports,  a  situation  that  could  create  future  problems 
in  the  balance  of  payments.  Many  analysts  believed  that  domestic 
borrowing  for  development  expenditures  would  better  serve  de- 
velopment. 

Labor  productivity  needed  to  increase  to  improve  the  well-being 
of  the  people.  Nepal  suffered,  however,  from  technology  deficits, 
as  well  as  from  shortfalls  in  its  literacy  rate,  basic  science  educa- 
tion, and  technical  training.  Although  there  had  been  some  progress 
in  raising  the  literacy  rate,  properly  trained  technicians  remained 
in  short  supply. 

Income  distribution  data  on  a  large  scale  were  not  available. 
Nonetheless,  some  sample  studies  had  been  done.  In  1990  Dr.  B.P. 
Shreshtha  found  that  75  percent  of  the  families  accounted  for  less 
than  35  percent  of  income.  A  1983  study  by  Blaikie  et  al.  noted 
that  more  than  50  percent  of  the  family  landholdings  in  the  Hill 
Region  amounted  to  less  than  half  a  hectare.  Only  in  the  western 
Tarai  Region  were  landholdings  generally  much  bigger.  In  a  coun- 
try where  90  percent  of  the  population  was  largely  dependent  on 
agriculture,  few  families  had  landholdings  exceeding  four  hectares, 
largely  because  of  the  shortage  of  land. 

The  need  for  greater  agricultural  and  labor  productivity,  as  well 
as  employment  opportunities,  to  offset  the  demands  of  a  growing 
populace  was  paramount.  Of  equal  importance,  however,  were  in- 
creased efforts  at  controlling  population  growth.  With  an  annual 
population  growth  rate  of  2.6  percent,  per  capita  resources  were 
reduced — another  obstacle  to  further  economic  development. 

For  general  background  material  on  the  state  of  the  economy 


140 


Nepal:  The  Economy 


prior  to  1970,  Yadav  Prasad  Pant's  Problems  in  Fiscal  and  Monetary 
Policy,  Rishikesh  Shaha's  Nepali  Politics,  and  Badri  Prasad 
Shreshtha's  The  Economy  of  Nepal  provide  useful  information.  Pierce 
M.  Blaikie  et  al.'s  Nepal  in  Crisis  details  the  status  of  the  economy 
in  the  1970s,  although  it  focuses  on  the  western  and  central  parts 
of  the  country.  Mahesh  Chandra  Regmi's  books  on  Nepal's  eco- 
nomic history  are  valuable  for  their  perspective  and  insight  into 
continuing  problems.  For  more  recent  assessments  of  the  econo- 
my, Badri  Prasad  Shreshtha's  Nepalese  Economy  in  Retrospect  and 
Prospect,  Babu  Ram  Shrestha' s  Managing  External  Assistance  in  Nepal, 
and  the  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review's  annual  Asia  Yearbook  are 
helpful.  Shrestha' s  book  also  details  the  extent  of  foreign  assistance 
in  Nepal  and  provides  some  data  on  expenditures  in  some  of  the 
development  plans.  Economic  Survey,  1987-88  and  Economic  Survey, 
1989-90,  published  by  Nepal's  Ministry  of  Finance,  and  Statistical 
Pocketbook,  1 988  and  Statistical  Pocketbook,  1990,  published  by  Nepal's 
Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  provide  the  most  current  statistical 
data. 

Yadav  Prasad  Pant  and  Badri  Prasad  Shreshtha,  professional 
economists  from  Nepal,  have  held  several  posts  in  the  government 
and  have  also  written  extensively  about  Nepal's  economy.  Although 
the  aforementioned  texts  by  Shreshtha  and  Pant's  Problems  in  Fis- 
cal and  Monetary  Policy  are  difficult  to  obtain  in  the  United  States, 
they  provide  useful  information.  (For  further  information  and  com- 
plete citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


141 


Chapter  4.  Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


Jang  Bahadur  Rana,  founder  of  the  Rana  line  of  prime  ministers,  who 
reigned  from  1846  to  1877 


THE  DRAMATIC  EVENTS  of  the  beginning  months  of  1990 
marked  a  watershed  in  Nepal's  political  system.  The  quest  for  a 
multiparty,  representative  form  of  government  had  begun  on 
December  15,  1960,  when  an  unprecedented  royal  coup  d'etat  dis- 
missed the  constitutionally  elected  government  of  Bishweshwar 
Prasad  (B.P.)  Koirala.  King  Mahendra  Bir  Bikram  Shah  Dev 
abrogated  the  constitution  and  suspended  all  guarantees  of  fun- 
damental rights  and  political  activities.  The  traditional  partyless 
panchayat  (see  Glossary)  system  of  local  and  national  assemblies  im- 
posed by  fiat  was  found  unsatisfactory  in  the  face  of  the  Nepalese 
desire  to  secure  legitimate  political  and  human  rights  and  estab- 
lish accountability  in  government. 

Monarchical  opposition  toward  political  parties  or  groups  had 
been  so  vigorous  that  the  centrist  Nepali  Congress  Party,  the  oldest 
political  party,  carried  on  its  activities  from  exile  in  India.  Other 
political  parties,  including  the  splintered  leftist  groups,  either  oper- 
ated from  abroad  or  were  disbanded.  Although  political  parties  were 
banned  and  at  times  their  leaders  were  incarcerated  or  forced  to 
go  underground,  they  remained  a  vital  force  in  sensitizing  and 
mobilizing  public  opinion  against  government  authoritarianism. 

The  Movement  for  the  Restoration  of  Democracy  (MRD),  popu- 
larly known  as  the  prodemocracy  movement,  finally  succeeded  in 
early  1990  in  restoring  democratic  rights  denied  for  decades  by  the 
powerful  palace  clique.  In  April  1990,  tens  of  thousands  of  Nepa- 
lese marched  on  the  royal  palace  in  Kathmandu,  demonstrating 
against  King  Birendra  Bir  Bikram  Shah  Dev,  who  was  tradition- 
ally revered  as  an  incarnation  of  the  Hindu  god  Vishnu.  Police 
and  troops  shot  and  killed  many  of  the  marchers.  As  shock  waves 
reverberated  through  Nepal,  long  an  oasis  of  civil  order  in  South 
Asia,  the  king  quickly  scrapped  the  panchayat  system,  lifted  the  ban 
on  political  parties,  and  formed  an  interim  government  from  among 
the  ranks  of  the  veteran  opposition  leaders  under  the  premiership 
of  Nepali  Congress  leader  Krishna  Prasad  (K.P.)  Bhattarai. 

The  interim  government,  which  represented  the  spectrum  of  pub- 
lic opinion,  was  directed  to  conduct  fair  and  free  elections  within 
a  stipulated  period  under  a  new  constitution  framed  by  an  indepen- 
dent constitutional  commission  appointed  by  the  Council  of  Minis- 
ters— the  Constitution  Recommendation  Commission.  Although 
the  constitution  was  proclaimed  from  the  throne,  its  development, 
unlike  past  constitutional  edicts,  was  through  a  democratic  process 


145 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

in  which  the  interim  Council  of  Ministers  served  as  a  legislature. 
Nepal's  human  rights  records — poor  before  the  success  of  the 
prodemocracy  movement — also  improved. 

During  the  prodemocracy  movement,  a  range  of  political  par- 
ties acted  in  concert  and  rapidly  commanded  the  loyalty  and  imag- 
ination of  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  urban  population.  This 
unprecedented  expression  of  national  unity  and  the  government's 
subsequent  attempts  to  suppress  the  movement  triggered  the 
reactions  of  major  and  regional  world  powers  including  the  United 
States,  Japan,  and  India,  and  international  financial  institutions, 
such  as  the  World  Bank  (see  Glossary)  and  Asian  Development  Bank 
(see  Glossary).  Their  timely  expressions  of  concern  and  threats 
to  reevaluate  their  commitments  of  economic  and  technical  as- 
sistance both  bolstered  the  movement  and  served  as  a  damper 
against  the  monarchy's  continued  use  of  excessive  force  to  contain  it. 

Strategically  wedged  between  China  and  India,  Nepal  has  al- 
ways been  fearful  of  foreign  intervention  and  has  tried  to  main- 
tain equal  distance  from  these  two  powerful  neighbors  in  a 
continuing  effort  to  protect  its  sovereignty.  Nepal's  choice  not  to 
align  with  any  superpower  facilitated  grants  of  economic  assistance 
from  diverse  sources,  including  the  United  States,  the  Soviet 
Union,  India,  China,  and  Japan.  Nepal  maintained  a  high  profile 
in  various  international  organizations  and  activities  and  was  a  char- 
ter member  of  the  South  Asian  Association  for  Regional  Coopera- 
tion (SAARC — see  Glossary). 

Although  the  vast  majority  of  the  Nepalese  population  was  il- 
literate, Nepal's  printed  media  have  been  influential  as  well  as  stri- 
dent. Before  the  introduction  of  the  1990  constitution,  which 
guarantees  freedom  of  expression,  several  stringent  publication  and 
censorship  laws  limited  freedom  of  expression. 

Constitutional  Development 

The  Rana  System 

Beginning  in  1856,  the  center  of  power  in  Nepal  rested  with  the 
Rana  prime  ministers,  who  retained  sovereign  power  until  the  revo- 
lution of  1950-51  (see  The  Rana  Oligarchy,  ch.  1).  Many  of  the 
nobles  who  participated  in  the  consultative  court  called  the  Assembly 
of  Lords,  or  Bharadari  Sabha,  had  been  slaughtered  at  the  Kot 
Massacre  in  1846.  Following  his  official  visit  to  Britain  and  Eu- 
rope in  1851,  Jang  Bahadur  Kunwar  (later  called  Jang  Bahadur 
Rana)  began  to  use  the  Bharadari  Sabha  as  deliberative  body  for 


146 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


state  affairs.  For  almost  100  years,  this  council  served  as  a  rubber 
stamp  for  the  Rana  autocracy.  The  next  major  effort  at  institu- 
tional development  was  initiated  in  1947  by  Padma  Shamsher  Rana, 
a  liberal  prime  minister,  who  appointed  a  Constitutional  Reform 
Committee  to  draft  the  first  constitution.  Known  as  the  Govern- 
ment of  Nepal  Constitution  Act,  1948,  this  constitution,  written 
with  the  help  of  Indian  advisers,  superficially  changed  the  Rana 
system.  It  established  a  bicameral  legislative  body.  The  entire  mem- 
bership of  one  house  and  a  majority  of  the  other  was  selected  by 
the  prime  minister,  who  could  reject  any  measure  that  the  legisla- 
ture might  pass.  There  was  a  cabinet  of  at  least  five  members,  of 
whom  at  least  two  were  chosen  from  among  the  few  elected  mem- 
bers of  the  legislature. 

The  act  also  specified  that  a  panchayat  system  of  local  self- 
government  would  be  inaugurated  in  the  villages,  towns,  and  dis- 
tricts. It  enumerated  certain  fundamental  rights  and  duties,  which 
included  freedoms  of  speech,  the  press,  assembly,  and  worship; 
equality  before  the  law;  free  elementary  education  for  all;  and  equal 
and  universal  suffrage.  Despite  the  appearance  of  reform,  the  al- 
terations made  in  the  Rana  system  by  the  constitution  were  slight. 
The  more  conservative  Ranas  perceived  the  constitution  as  a  dan- 
gerous precedent,  forced  Padma  Shamsher  to  resign,  and  suspended 
promulgation  of  the  constitution.  The  constitution  became  effec- 
tive in  September  1950  but  remained  in  force  only  until  February 
1951,  when  the  Rana  monopoly  was  broken  and  the  creation  of 
a  new  constitutional  system  began. 

The  Interim  Constitution,  1951 

The  revolution  of  1950-51  resulted  in  the  overthrow  of  the  Rana 
system  (see  The  Growth  of  Political  Parties;  The  Return  of  the 
King,  ch.  1).  In  1951  King  Tribhuvan  Bir  Bikram  Shah  announced 
by  royal  proclamation  an  interim  government  and  an  interim  con- 
stitution until  a  new  Constituent  Assembly  could  be  elected.  The 
interim  constitution,  based  on  principles  in  India's  constitution  and 
entitled  the  Interim  Government  of  Nepal  Act,  1951,  ratified  the 
end  of  the  authority  of  the  prime  minister  and  the  system  surround- 
ing that  office.  It  also  reasserted  the  king's  supreme  executive,  legis- 
lative, and  judicial  powers.  The  king  exercised  his  executive 
authority  through,  and  was  aided  and  advised  by,  a  Council  of 
Ministers,  which  he  appointed  and  which  served  at  his  pleasure. 

The  king  also  appointed  an  Advising  Assembly  to  sit  until  the 
Constituent  Assembly  was  elected.  The  king  retained  sovereign  and 
plenary  legislative  powers.  The  Advising  Assembly  was,  with  certain 
exceptions,  authorized  only  to  discuss  matters  and  to  recommend 


147 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

measures  to  the  king  for  enactment  into  law.  The  final  authority 
to  approve  any  legislative  measure  lay  with  the  king.  The  consti- 
tution also  established  a  Supreme  Court,  made  the  king  supreme 
commander  of  the  armed  forces,  reiterated  and  enlarged  upon  the 
fundamental  rights  included  in  the  Rana  constitution,  and 
proclaimed  numerous  social  and  economic  objectives  of  the  govern- 
ment. These  objectives  were  to  promote  the  welfare  of  the  people 
by  securing  a  social  order  in  which  social,  economic,  and  political 
justice  pervaded  all  the  institutions  of  national  life.  King  Mahen- 
dra  (reigned  1955-72)  vigorously  sought  to  broaden  the  monarch's 
political  base,  but  the  Nepali  National  Congress  succeeded  in  gain- 
ing some  democratic  reforms.  Although  the  constitution  was  ex- 
pected to  be  temporary  pending  the  election  of  a  Constituent 
Assembly  and  the  preparation  of  a  permanent  organic  law,  King 
Mahendra  was  unable  to  resist  the  increasingly  well-orchestrated 
political  demands  by  the  Nepali  National  Congress  for  a  more 
democratic  and  representative  government,  and  was  forced  to 
promulgate  a  new  constitution. 

The  Royal  Constitution  of  1959 

The  most  significant  aspect  of  the  constitution  of  1959  was  that 
it  was  granted  by  the  king  rather  than  drawn  up  by  elected  represen- 
tatives of  the  people  as  had  been  specified  in  the  1951  constitu- 
tion. Although  the  constitution  formally  brought  into  being  a 
democratically  elected  parliamentary  system  under  a  constitutional 
monarchy,  the  king  retained  ultimate  sovereignty,  even  though  the 
document  itself  did  not  explicitly  grant  this  power. 

The  1959  constitution,  modeled  on  British  and  Indian  constitu- 
tional custom,  vested  executive  power  in  the  king,  who  was  ad- 
vised and  assisted  by  a  Council  of  State  (Raj  Sabha)  and  a  Council 
of  Ministers  (cabinet).  The  Council  of  State,  which  consisted  of 
officers  of  Parliament,  ministers  ex  officio,  former  ministers,  and 
royal  appointees,  advised  the  monarch  on  legislation  and  handled 
the  details  of  regency  and  succession  in  the  event  of  his  death  or 
disability.  The  general  direction  and  control  of  the  government  were 
entrusted  to  the  Council  of  Ministers,  headed  by  a  prime  minister 
required  to  command  a  majority  in  the  lower  house  of  Parliament, 
to  which  the  council  was  collectively  responsible. 

The  king  was  an  integral  part  of  the  legislative  arm  of  the  govern- 
ment. Parliament  was  defined  as  consisting  of  the  king;  the  House 
of  Representatives,  composed  of  109  popularly  elected  members; 
and  the  Senate,  composed  of  36  members  of  whom  half  were  elected 
by  the  house  and  half  were  nominated  by  the  king.  All  bills  ap- 
proved by  the  two  houses  required  the  assent  of  the  king  to  become 


148 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


law.  The  constitution  granted  the  king  wide  latitude  to  nullify  the 
parliamentary  system.  The  king  could  suspend  the  operation  of 
the  cabinet  and  perform  its  functions  himself  if  he  determined  that 
no  person  could  command  a  majority  in  the  house  as  prime 
minister.  In  the  event  of  a  breakdown  of  the  parliamentary  sys- 
tem or  of  any  one  of  a  number  of  emergency  conditions,  the  king 
could  suspend  either  or  both  houses  of  Parliament,  assume  their 
powers,  and  suspend  the  constitution  in  whole  or  part.  In  Decem- 
ber 1960,  King  Mahendra  invoked  these  emergency  powers  to  dis- 
solve the  Nepali  Congress  Party  government.  The  constitutional 
system  that  had  prevailed  before  1959  was  then  returned  to  opera- 
tion (see  The  Democratic  Experiment,  ch.  1). 

The  Panchayat  Constitution,  1962 

By  royal  proclamation  on  December  16,  1962,  King  Mahendra 
announced  a  new  constitution  that  radically  reformed  the  1959  con- 
stitution but  also  adopted  many  features  of  the  Rana  system  (see 
The  Panchayat  System  under  King  Mahehdra,  ch.  1 ;  The  Adminis- 
trative System,  this  ch.).  Known  as  the  Panchayat  Constitution, 
it  was  the  fourth  constitution  in  fifteen  years. 

The  panchayat  system  was  an  institution  of  great  antiquity.  Histor- 
ically, each  caste  group  system  of  Nepal  formed  its  own  panchayat, 
or  council  of  elders,  a  sociopolitical  organization  operational  on 
a  village  level  that  could  expand  to  include  neighboring  districts, 
or  even  function  on  a  zonal  basis.  Although  it  could  be  argued  that 
the  panchayat  system  was  adopted  from  India,  King  Mahendra  had 
argued  for  its  incorporation  at  the  national  level  as  an  exponent 
of  Nepalese  culture — a  worthy  and  historically  correct  representa- 
tion of  cultural  expression. 

The  1962  constitution  was  based  on  some  elements  from  other 
"guided  democracy"  constitutional  experiments — notably  "Ba- 
sic Democracy"  in  Pakistan,  "Guided  Democracy"  in  Indonesia, 
and  the  "Dominant  Party  System"  in  Egypt.  The  Panchayat  Con- 
stitution not  only  codified  the  irrelevance  of  political  parties,  but 
also  declared  them  illegal. 

The  1962  constitution  contained  a  stronger  and  more  explicit 
statement  of  royal  authority  than  did  previous  constitutions.  Real 
power  remained  with  the  king,  who  was  the  sole  source  of  authority 
and  had  the  power  not  only  to  amend  the  constitution  but  also  to 
suspend  it  by  royal  proclamation  during  emergencies.  The  Coun- 
cil of  Ministers,  selected  from  the  members  of  the  legislative 
(Rashtriya  Panchayat,  or  National  Panchayat),  served  as  an  advi- 
sory body  to  the  king.  Members  of  the  Rashtriya  Panchayat  were 
elected  indirectly  by  the  members  of  local  panchayat  as  well  as  by 


149 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

the  members  of  professional  and  class  organizations  such  as  the 
Nepal  Workers'  Organization,  the  Nepal  Ex-servicemen's  Organi- 
zation, and  the  Nepal  Youth  Organization.  The  constitution 
abolished  all  political  parties. 

Constitutional  Amendments 

The  Panchayat  Constitution  was  amended  several  times,  primar- 
ily to  increase  the  power  and  prerogatives  of  the  monarchy  against 
the  increasing  popular  demand  for  liberalization  of  the  political  in- 
stitutions and  processes.  In  view  of  the  mounting  criticism  against 
the  Panchayat  Constitution,  King  Birendra,  who  had  succeeded 
his  father  in  1972,  pursuant  to  recommendations  of  a  specially  creat- 
ed Constitutional  Reform  Commission,  announced  in  1975  that 
the  constitution  would  be  amended  to  include  provisions  govern- 
ing the  amending  procedure  itself.  Previously  the  king  could  not 
amend  the  constitution  unless  two-thirds  of  the  Rashtriya  Panchayat 
ratified  the  proposed  amendment.  Under  the  proposed  amendment, 
the  king  would  have  to  consult  a  special  committee  of  the  Rastriya 
Panchayat  before  amending  the  constitution.  In  addition,  the  term 
of  a  delegate  to  the  Rashtriya  Panchayat  was  reduced  from  six  years 
to  four  years. 

The  Referendum  of  1980 

In  May  1979,  concerned  by  the  unabated  political  demonstra- 
tions and  considerable  general  unrest,  King  Birendra  called  for  a 
nationwide  referendum  to  determine  the  future  form  of  govern- 
ment. The  referendum  offered  two  choices:  a  continuation  of  the 
partyless  panchayat  system,  with  prospects  for  further  reform;  or 
a  multiparty  system.  Although  no  clear  definition  of  a  multiparty 
system  was  provided,  the  implication  was  that  it  stood  for  a 
parliamentary  system  of  government  run  on  a  party  basis.  The 
referendum,  the  first  nationwide  vote  in  twenty-two  years,  was  held 
on  May  2,  1980,  and  67  percent  of  the  eligible  voters  participated. 
The  panchayat  system  was  chosen  with  a  majority  of  54.7  percent 
of  the  votes.  On  May  21,  1980,  the  king  appointed  an  eleven- 
member  Constitution  Reforms  Commission  to  be  chaired  by  the 
acting  chief  justice  of  the  Supreme  Court  (see  The  Judiciary,  this 
ch.).  On  December  15,  the  king  promulgated  three  constitutional 
amendments:  direct  elections  to  the  Rashtriya  Panchayat  would 
be  held  every  five  years  for  112  seats,  with  28  additional  seats  filled 
by  the  king's  personal  nomination;  the  prime  minister  would  be 
elected  by  the  Rashtriya  Panchayat;  the  cabinet  would  be  appointed 
by  the  king  on  the  recommendation  of  the  prime  minister  and  would 
be  accountable  to  the  Rashtriya  Panchayat;  and  Nepal  would 


150 


King  Birendra 
Bir  Bikram  Shah  Dev 


Queen  Aishwarya  Rajya 
Laxmi  Devi  Rana 
Courtesy 

Royal  Nepalese  Embassy 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

commit  to  the  Nonaligned  Movement  as  a  zone  of  peace.  These 
provisions,  with  a  few  minor  modifications,  remained  in  opera- 
tion until  early  1990,  when  the  prodemocracy  movement  success- 
fully agitated  for  a  multiparty  democratic  system. 

The  Constitution  of  1990 

Widespread  prodemocracy  protests  toppled  the  panchayat  system 
in  April  1990.  The  king  appointed  an  independent  Constitution 
Recommendation  Commission  to  represent  the  main  opposition 
factions  and  to  prepare  a  new  constitution  to  accommodate  their 
demands  for  political  reform.  On  September  10,  1990,  the  com- 
mission presented  King  Birendra  with  the  draft  of  a  new  constitu- 
tion, which  would  preserve  the  king's  status  as  chief  of  state  under 
a  constitutional  monarchy  but  establish  a  multiparty  democracy 
with  separation  of  powers  and  human  rights.  As  agreed  upon  earlier, 
the  king  turned  the  draft  constitution  over  to  Prime  Minister  K.P. 
Bhattarai  and  his  cabinet  for  review  and  recommendations.  The 
draft  was  discussed  extensively  and  approved  by  the  interim  cabinet. 
A  major  obstacle  to  approval  was  avoided  when  the  commission 
removed  a  disputed  provision  under  which  both  the  constitutional 
monarchy  and  multiparty  system  could  have  been  eliminated  by 
a  three-quarters  majority  vote  of  Parliament. 

On  November  9,  1990,  King  Birendra  promulgated  the  new  con- 
stitution and  abrogated  the  constitution  of  1962.  The  1990  consti- 
tution ended  almost  thirty  years  of  absolute  monarchy  in  which 
the  palace  had  dominated  every  aspect  of  political  life  and  politi- 
cal parties  were  banned. 

The  constitution,  broadly  based  on  British  practice,  is  the  fun- 
damental law  of  Nepal.  It  vests  sovereignty  in  the  people  and 
declares  Nepal  a  multiethnic,  multilingual,  democratic,  indepen- 
dent, indivisible,  sovereign,  and  constitutional  monarchical  king- 
dom. The  national  and  official  language  of  Nepal  is  Nepali  in  the 
Devanagari  script.  All  other  languages  spoken  as  the  mother 
tongue  in  the  various  parts  of  Nepal  are  recognized  as  languages 
of  the  nation  (see  Caste  and  Ethnicity,  ch.  2).  Although  Nepal  still 
is  officially  regarded  as  a  Hindu  kingdom,  the  constitution  also  gives 
religious  and  cultural  freedom  to  other  religious  groups,  such  as 
Buddhists,  Muslims,  and  Christians.  The  preamble  of  the  consti- 
tution recognizes  the  desire  of  the  Nepalese  people  to  bring  about 
constitutional  changes  with  the  objective  of  obtaining  social,  politi- 
cal, and  economic  justice.  It  envisages  the  guarantee  of  basic  human 
rights  to  every  citizen,  a  parliamentary  system  of  government,  and 
a  multiparty  democracy.  It  also  aims  to  establish  an  independent 


152 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


and  competent  system  of  justice  with  a  view  to  transforming  the 
concept  of  the  rule  of  law  into  reality. 

Other  safeguards  include  the  right  to  property;  the  right  to  con- 
serve and  promote  one's  language,  script,  and  culture;  the  right 
to  education  in  the  student's  mother  tongue;  freedom  of  religion; 
and  the  right  to  manage  and  protect  religious  places  and  trusts. 
Traffic  in  human  slavery,  serfdom,  forced  labor,  or  child  labor  in 
any  form  is  prohibited.  The  right  to  receive  information  about  mat- 
ters of  public  importance  and  the  right  to  secrecy  and  inviolability 
of  one's  person,  residence,  property,  documents,  letters,  and  other 
information  also  are  guaranteed. 

Part  three  of  the  constitution  provides  for  the  fundamental  rights 
of  citizens.  Although  some  elements  of  fundamental  rights  guaran- 
teed in  the  1962  constitution  are  reflected  in  the  1990  constitution, 
the  latter  provides  new  safeguards  in  unequivocal  language  and 
does  not  encumber  the  fundamental  rights  with  duties  or  restric- 
tions purported  to  uphold  public  good.  All  citizens  are  equal  be- 
fore the  law,  and  no  discrimination  can  be  made  on  the  basis  of 
religion,  race,  sex,  caste,  tribe,  or  ideology.  No  person  shall,  on 
the  basis  of  caste,  be  discriminated  against  as  an  untouchable,  be 
denied  access  to  any  public  place,  or  be  deprived  from  the  use  of 
public  utilities.  No  discrimination  will  be  allowed  in  regard  to 
remuneration  for  men  and  women  for  the  same  work.  No  citizen 
can  be  exiled  or  be  deprived  of  liberty  except  in  accordance  with 
the  law;  and  capital  punishment  is  disallowed. 

In  addition,  sections  on  fundamental  rights  provide  for  freedom 
of  thought  and  expression;  freedom  to  assemble  peacefully  and 
without  arms;  freedom  to  form  unions  and  associations;  freedom 
to  move  and  reside  in  any  part  of  Nepal;  and  freedom  to  carry 
out  any  profession,  occupation,  trade,  or  industry.  Similarly,  pri- 
or censorship  of  publications  is  prohibited,  and  free  press  and  print- 
ing are  guaranteed.  Unfettered  cultural  and  educational  rights  also 
are  guaranteed.  Articles  23  and  88  provide  for  a  citizen's  right  to 
constitutional  remedy.  Any  citizen  can  petition  the  Supreme  Court 
to  declare  any  law  or  part  thereof  as  void  if  it  infringes  on  the  fun- 
damental rights  conferred  by  the  constitution. 

Rights  regarding  criminal  justice  include  the  guarantee  that  no 
person  will  be  punished  for  an  act  unpunishable  by  law  or  subject- 
ed to  a  punishment  greater  than  that  prescribed  by  the  laws  in  ex- 
istence at  the  time  of  commission  of  the  offense;  no  person  will  be 
prosecuted  more  than  once  in  any  offense;  and  no  one  will  be  com- 
pelled to  bear  witness  against  himself  or  herself  (see  The  Judicial 
System,  ch.  5).  Inflicting  cruelty  on  a  person  in  detention  is  pro- 
hibited, as  is  detaining  a  person  without  giving  information  about 


153 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

the  grounds  for  such  detention.  Further,  the  person  in  detention 
must  be  produced  within  twenty-four  hours  of  such  arrest  before 
the  judicial  authorities.  Any  person  wrongly  detained  will  be  com- 
pensated. 

The  constitution  lays  down  various  directives  in  matters  of  po- 
litical, economic,  and  social  development,  and  foreign  policy.  These 
lofty  policies  are  guidelines  to  promote  conditions  of  welfare  on 
the  basis  of  the  principles  of  an  open  society.  One  objective  is  to 
transform  the  national  economy  into  an  independent  and  self-reliant 
system  by  making  arrangements  for  the  equitable  distribution  of 
the  economic  gains  on  the  basis  of  social  justice.  The  constitution 
stresses  the  creation  of  conditions  for  the  enjoyment  of  the  fruits 
of  democracy  through  the  maximum  participation  of  the  people 
in  governance  of  the  country.  Other  aims  include  the  pursuit  of 
a  policy  in  international  relations  that  will  enhance  the  dignity  of 
the  nation  and  ensure  sovereignty,  integrity,  and  national  indepen- 
dence and  the  protection  of  the  environment  from  further  ecologi- 
cal damage. 

Other  Features  of  the  Constitution 

The  constitution  guarantees  the  citizens'  unfettered  rights  to  po- 
litical pluralism  and  a  multiparty  democracy.  All  legitimate  politi- 
cal organizations  or  parties  that  register  with  the  Election 
Commission  are  allowed  to  publicize  and  broadcast  for  the  pur- 
pose of  securing  support  and  cooperation  of  the  general  public 
toward  their  objectives  and  programs.  Any  law,  arrangement,  or 
decision  that  restricts  any  of  these  activities  is  inconsistent  with  the 
constitution  and  void.  Any  law,  arrangement,  or  decision  to  im- 
pose a  one-party  system  is  also  inconsistent  with  the  constitution 
and  void.  Under  the  section  on  political  organization,  any  politi- 
cal party  is  not  eligible  for  registration  if  it  discriminates,  if  at  least 
5  percent  of  its  candidates  are  not  women,  or  if  it  fails  to  obtain 
at  least  3  percent  of  the  total  votes  cast  in  the  previous  election  to 
the  House  of  Representatives. 

The  constitution  may  be  amended  or  repealed  by  a  majority  of 
two-thirds  in  each  house  of  Parliament.  However,  such  amendment 
or  repeals  may  not  be  designed  to  frustrate  the  spirit  of  the  pream- 
ble of  the  constitution,  which  recognizes  the  Nepalese  people  as  the 
source  of  sovereign  authority.  After  passage  in  both  houses,  any 
bill  to  repeal  or  amend  the  constitution  must  receive  royal  assent. 

The  Executive 

Executive  powers  are  vested  in  the  king  and  the  Council  of 
Ministers — a  prime  minister,  deputy  prime  minister,  and  other 


154 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


ministers  as  required.  The  direction,  supervision,  and  conduct  of 
the  general  administration  of  the  country  are  the  responsibility  of 
the  Council  of  Ministers.  All  transactions  made  in  the  name  of  the 
king,  except  those  within  his  exclusive  domain,  are  authenticated 
by  the  Council  of  Ministers  (see  fig.  10). 

The  king  appoints  the  leader  of  the  political  party  commanding 
a  majority  in  the  House  of  Representatives  as  prime  minister.  If 
a  single  party  does  not  have  a  majority  in  the  house,  the  member 
commanding  a  majority  on  the  basis  of  two  or  more  parties  is  asked 
to  form  the  government.  When  this  alternative  also  is  not  possible, 
the  king  may  ask  the  leader  of  a  party  holding  the  largest  number 
of  seats  in  the  house  to  form  the  government.  In  this  case,  the  lead- 
er forming  the  government  must  obtain  a  vote  of  confidence  in  the 
house  within  thirty  days.  If  a  vote  of  no  confidence  is  obtained,  the 
king  will  dissolve  the  house  and  order  new  elections  within  six 
months.  Other  ministers  are  appointed  by  the  king  from  members 
of  Parliament  on  the  recommendation  of  the  prime  minister. 

The  constitution  declares  the  king  the  symbol  of  the  nation  and 
the  unity  of  its  people.  Expenditures  and  privileges  of  the  king  and 
royal  family  are  determined  by  law.  The  king  is  obliged  to  obey 
and  protect  the  constitution.  Although,  as  in  previous  constitutions 
the  monarch  remains  the  supreme  commander  of  the  Royal  Nepal 
Army,  a  three-member  National  Defence  Council,  headed  by  the 
prime  minister,  commands  the  military  (see  Legal  Basis  Under  the 
1990  Constitution,  ch.  5).  Nonetheless,  the  king  retains  his  power 
over  the  army  because  if  there  were  a  threat  to  sovereignty,  in- 
divisibility, or  security  because  of  war,  foreign  aggression,  armed 
revolt,  or  extreme  economic  depression,  he  could  declare  a  state 
of  emergency.  During  the  period  of  emergency — which  would  have 
to  be  approved  by  the  House  of  Representatives  within  three  months 
and  which  would  remain  in  effect  for  six  months  from  the  date  of 
its  announcement,  renewable  for  six  months — fundamental  rights, 
with  the  exception  of  the  right  of  habeas  corpus,  could  be  suspended. 
Additional  prerogatives  of  the  king  include  the  power  to  grant 
pardons;  suspend,  commute,  or  remit  any  sentence  passed  by  any 
court;  confer  titles,  honors,  or  decorations  of  the  kingdom;  appoint 
all  ambassadors  and  emissaries  for  the  kingdom;  and  remove  any 
barriers  to  enforcing  the  constitution.  The  king  also  nominates  the 
members  of  the  Raj  Parishad  (King's  Council),  the  body  that  de- 
termines the  accession  to  the  throne  of  the  heir  apparent. 

The  Legislature 

The  constitution  provides  for  a  bicameral  legislature,  the  Parlia- 
ment. This  body  consists  of  the  king  and  two  houses,  the  House 


155 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


(0 

\- 

c/> 

CC 

oc 

CC 

o 

o 

3 

o 

III 

o 

III 

CO 

EMI 

ATI 

CT 

PRI 

-I 
-I 

in 

TRI 

ns 

APPI 

DIS 

< 
z 

g  j 
h  o 

3  Z 

t  = 

H  O 

(/)  O 

z 
o 
o 


EE 

Z 

_J  111 

o 

z<2 

UJ 

z>  z 

| 

o  a 

Z  uj 

Q  >  O 

UJ  O 
Q 


I— 

Z  uj 


HI  O 
Q 


z" 


o< 

UJ  t 

2>2 

offl 


8  2 
o  JE 


156 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


of  Representatives  (Pratinidhi  Sabha)  and  the  National  Council 
(Rashtriya  Sabha).  The  House  of  Representatives  has  205  direct- 
ly elected  members.  The  term  for  the  House  of  Representatives 
is  five  years  unless  it  dissolves  earlier,  pursuant  to  the  provisions 
of  the  constitution.  On  the  recommendation  of  the  prime  minister, 
the  king  may  dissolve  the  house,  but  new  elections  must  be  held 
within  six  months.  Administrative  districts  are  the  election  districts; 
and  each  district's  allocation  of  seats  is  proportional  to  its  popula- 
tion. All  persons  eighteen  years  or  older  are  enfranchised. 

The  National  Council  has  sixty  members  consisting  of  ten 
nominees  of  the  king;  thirty-five  members,  including  at  least  three 
women,  to  be  elected  by  the  House  of  Representatives  by  means 
of  a  single  transferable  vote,  pursuant  to  the  system  of  proportion- 
al representation;  and  fifteen  members  to  be  elected  by  the  elec- 
toral college  comprising  the  voters,  including  the  chair  and  deputy 
chair  of  the  village  and  town  and  district  committees  of  various 
development  regions.  The  National  Council  is  a  permanent  body; 
one-third  of  its  members  must  retire  every  two  years.  Council  mem- 
bers serve  six-year  terms. 

With  the  exception  of  finance  bills,  introduced  only  in  the  House 
of  Representatives,  bills  may  be  introduced  in  either  house.  All 
bills,  however,  must  be  passed  by  both  houses  before  receiving  royal 
assent.  When  a  bill  is  rejected  by  the  National  Council,  the  House 
of  Representatives  has  the  overriding  authority.  If  the  joint  ses- 
sion of  Parliament  receives  and  passes  a  bill  that  the  king  returned 
for  reconsideration,  it  receives  royal  assent  within  thirty  days.  The 
king  may,  when  both  the  Houses  of  Parliament  are  not  in  session, 
promulgate  ordinances,  which  are  not  effective  unless  approved 
by  both  the  houses  when  reconvened.  Financial  procedures  are  out- 
lined in  part  ten  of  the  constitution,  which  states  that  taxes  cannot 
be  levied  or  loans  raised  except  in  accordance  with  the  law. 

The  Judiciary 

An  independent  judiciary,  unencumbered  by  the  executive 
branch  of  the  government  and  palace  interference,  was  a  stated 
goal  of  all  political  parties.  Of  the  many  changes  which  have  taken 
place  since  the  fall  of  the  Ranas  in  1951,  among  the  most  striking 
have  been  the  growing  autonomy  of  the  courts  and  the  gradual 
liberalization  of  many  basic  judicial  principles.  Despite  major  im- 
provements, however,  the  judicial  system  has  suffered  from  serious 
impediments  in  providing  speedy,  expeditious,  and  equal  justice. 
The  independence  and  integrity  of  the  judiciary  were  repeatedly 
questioned  in  the  press;  intervention  of  political  figures  and  govern- 
ment officials  in  the  judicial  process  was  a  frequent  occurrence; 


157 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

and  caste  and  economic  status  were  important  determinants  of  the 
availability  of  justice. 

The  court  system  formerly  was  one  of  many  instruments  used 
by  the  prime  minister  to  maintain  the  authoritarian  rule  of  the  Rana 
family,  and  the  concepts  of  law  it  applied  were  arbitrary,  puni- 
tive, and  oppressive.  After  an  initial  attempt  to  keep  the  judiciary 
subordinate  when  the  monarchy  was  restored,  it  was  allowed  to 
become  a  relatively  independent  branch  of  government.  Reforms 
in  the  legal  system  rendered  both  substantive  and  procedural  law 
progressively  more  systematic. 

Never  clearly  demarcated,  the  jurisdiction  of  the  courts  became 
further  complicated  with  the  introduction  of  the  panchayat  system, 
which  at  the  local  level  exercised  some  quasijudicial  functions. 
Therefore,  the  fundamental  role  of  the  judiciary  and  its  position 
within  the  government  became  a  subject  of  national  focus  during 
the  prodemocracy  movement. 

According  to  the  constitution,  the  courts  comprise  three  tiers: 
the  Supreme  Court,  appellate  courts,  and  district  courts.  In  addi- 
tion, courts  or  tribunals  may  be  constituted  for  the  purpose  of  hear- 
ing special  types  of  cases  (see  The  Police  System,  ch.  5). 

The  Supreme  Court  is  the  highest  court.  All  other  courts  and 
institutions  exercising  judicial  powers,  except  the  military  courts, 
are  under  its  jurisdiction.  The  Supreme  Court  has  the  authority 
to  inspect,  supervise,  and  give  directives  to  all  subordinate  courts 
and  all  other  institutions  that  exercise  judicial  powers.  The  Supreme 
Court  has  both  original  and  appellate  jurisdiction  and  consists  of 
a  chief  justice  and  fourteen  other  judges. 

The  chief  justice  is  appointed  on  the  recommendation  of  the  Con- 
stitutional Council.  Other  judges  of  the  Supreme  Court,  appellate 
courts,  and  district  courts  are  appointed  on  the  recommendation 
of  the  Judicial  Council.  All  appointments  are  made  by  the  king. 
The  tenure  of  office  of  the  chief  justice  is  limited  to  seven  years 
from  the  date  of  appointment.  Supreme  Court  justices  can  be  im- 
peached in  the  House  of  Representatives  for  reasons  of  incapaci- 
ty, misbehavior,  or  malafide  acts  while  in  office.  The  Judicial 
Council,  presided  over  by  the  chief  justice  of  the  Supreme  Court, 
makes  recommendations  and  advises  on  appointments,  transfers, 
and  disciplinary  actions  of  the  judges  and  other  matters  relating 
to  judicial  administration. 

All  appointments,  promotions,  transfers,  and  disciplinary  actions 
of  the  judges  of  the  appellate  and  district  courts  are  under  the  juris- 
diction of  the  Judicial  Council.  An  independent  Judicial  Service 
Commission,  appointed  by  the  king,  and  with  the  chief  justice  of  the 
Supreme  Court  serving  as  ex-officio  chairman,  appoints,  transfers, 


158 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


promotes,  and  provides  departmental  punishment  of  the  gazetted 
officers  of  the  civil  service. 

An  Abuse  of  Authority  Investigating  Commission  is  empowered 
to  investigate  the  misuse  of  authority  or  corruption  by  public  offi- 
cials. Members  of  the  commission  have  no  specific  party  affilia- 
tion and  are  appointed  by  the  king  on  the  recommendation  of  the 
Constitutional  Council. 

The  Supreme  Court  is  the  supreme  judicial  authority  of  the  na- 
tion. All  orders  and  decisions  made  by  the  court  are  binding.  Any 
interpretation  of  a  law  or  any  legal  principle  laid  down  by  the  court 
is  binding  on  all,  including  the  king. 

As  a  guarantor  of  personal  liberty  and  fundamental  rights  con- 
ferred by  the  constitution,  the  Supreme  Court  has  the  authority 
to  declare  a  law  as  void  ab  initio  if  it  finds  that  the  impugned  law 
contravenes  the  provisions  of  the  constitution.  The  Supreme  Court 
also  has  the  power  to  issue  appropriate  orders  and  writs,  includ- 
ing habeas  corpus,  mandamus,  certiorari,  prohibition,  and  quo 
warranto. 

The  Civil  Service 

The  Nepal  Civil  Service  Act,  passed  in  1956,  classified  all  civil 
employees  of  the  government  into  two  categories — gazetted  ser- 
vices and  nongazetted  services.  Gazetted  services  included  all  ser- 
vices prescribed  by  the  government  by  notification  in  the  Nepal  Raj 
Patra,  the  government  gazette.  In  1991  categories  of  the  gazetted 
services  were  education,  judicial,  health,  administrative,  engineer- 
ing, forest,  agricultural,  and  miscellaneous  services.  The  gazetted 
posts  were  further  grouped  into  classes  I,  II,  and  III.  Nongazetted 
posts  also  had  several  class  echelons.  As  of  1990,  there  were  ap- 
proximately 80,000  civil  service  employees  in  all  ranks. 

According  to  the  1990  constitution,  all  members  of  the  civil  ser- 
vice are  recruited  through  an  open  competitive  examination  con- 
ducted by  the  Public  Service  Commission.  Police  and  military 
officers  are  excluded  from  the  jurisdiction  of  the  commission.  The 
chairman  and  other  members  of  the  commission  are  appointed  by 
the  king  on  the  recommendation  of  the  Constitutional  Council.  The 
commission  must  be  consulted  in  all  matters  concerning  laws  relat- 
ing to  the  civil  service — such  as  appointment,  promotion,  trans- 
fer, or  departmental  punishment.  Tenure,  benefits,  and  postings 
were  regulated  by  the  Nepal  Civil  Service  Act  of  1956. 

The  Administrative  System 

The panchayat  system  represented  "democracy  at  the  grassroots," 
and  until  April  1990  it  included  four  integrated  levels:  local  or 


159 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

village,  district,  zonal,  and  national — the  Rashtriya  Panchayat. 
Only  the  village  panchayat  was  directly  elected  by  the  people.  Cham- 
pioning panchayat  rule  as  a  political  system,  King  Mahendra  was 
able  to  tap  into  nascent  Nepalese  nationalism  and  also  to  outmaneu- 
ver  the  evolving  political  parties  which  had  posed  a  challenge  to 
the  monarchy's  vested  power. 

The  country  was  divided  into  fourteen  zones  and  seventy-five 
districts  in  support  of  the  complex  hierarchy  of  the  panchayat  sys- 
tem. The  lowest  unit  of  government  was  the  gaun  panchayat  (village 
committee  or  council),  of  which  there  were  3,524.  A  locality  with 
a  population  of  more  than  10,000  persons  was  organized  as  a  nagar 
panchayat  (town  committee  or  council).  The  number  of  nagar  pan- 
chayat varied  from  zone  to  zone.  Above  the  gaun  panchayat  and  nagar 
panchayat  was  the  district  panchayat,  of  which  there  were  seventy- 
five.  At  the  apex  of  the  panchayat  system  was  the  Rashtriya  Pan- 
chayat, which  served  as  the  unicameral  national  legislature  from 
1962  until  1990. 

The  district  panchayat  had  broad  powers  for  supervising  and  coor- 
dinating the  development  programs  of  the  village  and  carried  out 
development  projects  through  the  district  development  boards  and 
centers.  Each  of  the  seventy-five  districts  was  headed  by  a  chief 
district  officer,  who  was  an  elected  official,  responsible  for  main- 
taining law  and  order,  and  for  coordinating  the  work  of  the  field 
agencies  of  the  various  ministries. 

The  zonal  panchayat  was  responsible  for  implementing  develop- 
ment plans  forwarded  by  the  central  government,  formulating  and 
executing  programs  of  its  own,  and  planning,  supervising,  and  coor- 
dinating district  development  programs  within  its  jurisdiction.  Zonal 
commissioners  exercised  full  administrative  and  quasijudicial  pow- 
ers. Each  zone  was  administered  by  a  zonal  commissioner  and  one 
or  two  assistant  zonal  commissioners,  all  directly  appointed  by  the 
king.  Zones  and  districts  were  further  regrouped  into  five  develop- 
ment zones  in  1971-72,  an  administrative  division  that  remained 
in  effect  in  1991. 

A  drive  for  political  liberalization,  which  had  begun  shortly  af- 
ter the  1959  constitution  was  abrogated  and  all  political  activities 
were  banned  in  1960,  did  not  climax  until  the  prodemocracy  move- 
ment of  1990.  At  that  point,  ongoing  debilitating  interparty  con- 
flicts and  halting  demands  for  reforms  of  the  political  system  ended, 
and  national  energy  focused  on  a  movement  to  achieve  democrat- 
ic rights.  During  the  prodemocracy  movement,  some  of  the  pane ha 
{panchayat  members)  loyalists  even  were  openly  friendly  with  their 
former  adversaries. 


160 


sr 


Royal  palace,  Kathmandu 
Courtesy  Janet  MacDonald 

The  interim  government  that  was  installed  in  April  1990  con- 
sisted of  strange  bedfellows,  who,  however,  succeeded  in  steering 
the  nation  to  its  first  free  and  fair  elections  in  thirty-two  years.  In 
April  1990,  the  nagar panchayat  was  renamed  nagar polika  (municipal 
development  committee),  and  the  gaun  panchayat  became  gaun  bikas 
samiti,  or  village  development  committee.  The  Ministry  of  Local 
Development  posted  an  officer  to  each  district  to  help  with  the  var- 
ious programs  of  the  development  committees.  In  mid- 1991,  a 
Nepali  Congress  Party  government  was  in  power,  and  a  conglomer- 
ate of  communist  parties  was  playing  the  role  of  constitutional 
opposition.  At  that  time,  there  were  4,015  village  development  com- 
mittees and  thirty-three  municipal  development  committees.  Elec- 
tions for  the  heads  of  the  development  committees  were  scheduled 
for  June  1992. 

Political  Dynamics 

The  Panchayat  System 

For  centuries  the  government  had  been  run  by  a  number  of 
interrelated  aristocratic  families.  Despite  the  limitations  of  a  royal 
ban  on  political  parties  and  other  impediments,  political  parties 
did  exist  and  operated  clandestinely.  To  escape  harassment  or 


161 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

imprisonment,  many  political  leaders  went  to  India,  where  they 
also  received  logistical  and  other  support. 

Under  the  panchayat  system,  there  were  six  government-sponsored 
class  and  professional  organizations  for  peasants,  laborers,  students, 
women,  former  military  personnel,  and  college  graduates.  These 
organizations  were  substitutes  for  the  prohibited  political  parties 
and  provided  alternate  channels  for  the  articulation  of  group  or 
class — rather  than  national — interests.  The  professional  and  class 
organizations  were  warned  repeatedly  against  engaging  in  politi- 
cal activity;  nevertheless,  they  offered  the  only  political  forum  open 
to  many  Nepalese,  and  even  some  Nepali  Congress  Party  and  com- 
munist partisans  considered  them  worthy  of  infiltration. 

The  king  also  launched  an  independent  national  student  associ- 
ation, the  National  Independent  Student  Council  (Rashtriya 
Swatantra  Vidyarthi  Parishad),  to  control  the  political  activities 
of  the  students.  The  association  failed  to  gain  support,  and  suc- 
cessful student  agitation  in  1979  forced  the  king  not  only  to  abol- 
ish it  but  also  to  initiate  constitutional  reforms  leading  to  the  national 
referendum  of  1980.  Also  in  1980,  a  group  of  dissident  pancha 
brought  a  no-confidence  motion  against  Prime  Minister  Surya  Ba- 
hadur Thapa  on  charges  of  bureaucratic  corruption,  food  short- 
ages, and  lack  of  economic  discipline.  Surya  Bahadur,  however, 
was  a  perennial  political  survivor  and  was  returned  to  office  in  1981 . 

King  Birendra  devised  the  Back-to-the-Village  National  Cam- 
paign (BVNC)  in  1975.  The  BVNC  was  intended  to  circumvent 
the  possibility  of  opposition  within  the  panchayat  and  to  create  a 
loyal  core  of  elites  to  select  and  endorse  candidates  for  political  office, 
thereby  neutralizing  the  influence  of  underground  political  party 
organizers  in  the  rural  areas.  Although  it  was  envisioned  as  a 
means  to  mobilize  the  people  for  the  implementation  of  development 
plans  and  projects,  the  shortlived  BVNC — it  was  suspended  in 
1979 — was  in  reality  an  ideological  campaign  to  reinforce  the  im- 
portance of  the  partyless  system.  The  campaign  stressed  that  the 
partyless  system  was  appropriate  to  the  ways  of  the  Nepalese  peo- 
ple; the  party  system  was  a  divisive  and  culturally  alien  institution. 

Each  zonal  committee  had  a  BVNC  structure,  with  a  secretary 
nominated  by  the  king.  The  BVNC  network  was  extended  to  the 
district  and  village  levels  so  as  to  reinforce  a  national  communica- 
tion system.  However  inasmuch  as  the  government  paid  the  BVNC 
central  and  zonal  committee  members  and  restricted  chances  for 
popular  participation,  the  committees  carried  out  the  same  activi- 
ties as  the  panchayat.  In  actuality,  the  BVNC  was  created  by  the 
king  to  ensure  a  loyal  organization  and  circumvent  active  party 
members  from  gaining  seats  in  the  panchayat  elections.  The  BVNC 


162 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


became  an  organization  of  centrally  controlled  loyal  panchayat  elites 
and  an  insurance  policy  for  palace  initiatives. 

The  only  significant  opposition  to  the  monarchy  came  from  the 
Nepali  Congress  Party,  which  operated  from  exile  in  India.  Other 
parties  either  accepted  and  operated  within  the  panchayat  system 
on  a  supposedly  nonpartisan  basis  or  merged  with  the  exiled  Nepali 
Congress  Party,  polarizing  politics  over  the  issue  of  monarchical 
rule.  Even  the  Communist  Party  of  Nepal,  divided  on  the  tactical 
question  of  whether  to  seek  the  direct  and  immediate  overthrow 
of  the  monarchical  system  or  to  work  within  it,  had  split  into 
factions — a  radical  wing  operated  in  India  and  a  moderate  wing 
underground  in  Nepal.  Some  party  members,  to  gain  tactical  ad- 
vantage over  the  Nepali  Congress  Party,  entered  the  panchayat  sys- 
tem with  the  tacit  approval  of  the  palace. 

Ethnic  plurality,  income  disparity,  linguistic  diversity,  pervading 
regional  loyalties,  underdeveloped  communications,  and  a  paucity 
of  written  and  electronic  media  also  hindered  party  organization. 
The  dominant  high-caste  political  leaders  were  more  interested  in 
sharing  or  gaining  access  to  power  than  in  developing  lasting  foun- 
dations for  party  politics. 

Reportedly,  before  political  organizations  were  banned,  there 
were  sixty-nine  political  parties,  most  of  which  were  characteristi- 
cally fluid  in  their  membership  and  inconsistent  in  their  loyalties. 
Personalities  rather  than  ideologies  brought  individuals  and  groups 
under  the  nominal  canopy  of  a  party.  Fragmentation,  recombina- 
tion, and  alliances  for  convenience  were  the  outstanding  aspects 
of  party  behavior. 

In  the  polarized  political  climate,  the  monarchy  looked  at  the 
panchayat  system  as  its  only  dependable  support  base.  The  panchayat 
apparatus  provided  access  for  politically  motivated  individuals  to 
form  a  new  elite.  Although  the  political  leadership  and  following 
of  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  initially  stayed  away  from  the  pan- 
chayat system,  over  time,  and  in  the  absence  of  an  oudet  for  politi- 
cal activities,  some  defections  took  place.  Nevertheless,  the  lateral 
entry  of  some  pro-Nepali  Congress  Party  elements  did  not  sub- 
stantially change  the  character  of  the  panchayat  leadership,  which 
was  dominated  by  rural  elites  of  the  Hill  Region  rather  than  the 
urban  Kathmandu  and  Tarai  Region  elites  who  had  been  in  the 
forefront  of  political  activities.  The  system  was  designed  so  that 
the  established  parties  would  gradually  shrink  and  lose  their  in- 
fluence and  control.  Once  the  new  panchayat  leadership  matured, 
however,  some  members  became  restive  under  the  excessive  con- 
trol of  the  palace.  This  group  of  the  panchayat  elite  opposed  the  sys- 
tem from  within  and  overtly  joined  the  prodemocracy  movement. 


163 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

In  the  last  four  decades,  there  has  been  significant  progress 
towards  democracy  in  Nepal's  traditionally  authoritarian  political 
system.  The  first  national  elections  in  Nepal  took  place  in  1959 — 
some  eight  years  after  the  overthrow  of  the  Rana  system.  The  Nepali 
Congress  Party-dominated  government,  victorious  in  the  1959 
parliamentary  elections,  was  overthrown  by  King  Mahendra  within 
two  years — resulting  in  the  ban  on  political  parties.  The  pattern 
that  developed  over  the  following  decades  was  that  of  a  monarchy 
reinforcing  its  power  through  the  traditional  institution  of  the  pan- 
chayat.  The  panchayat  system,  co-opted  and  easily  manipulated  by 
the  monarchy  to  suit  its  political  ends,  nevertheless  was  slowly  but 
steadily  subjected  to  pressures  to  change.  Over  time  the  monar- 
chy was  forced  by  necessity  to  expand  the  role  of  elections  in 
response  to  the  mounting  discontent  of  a  citizenry  living  in  an  age 
of  heightened  political  awareness  and  rising  expectations.  This  trend 
culminated  in  May  1991  with  the  first  truly  free  elections  in  over 
thirty  years,  ushering  in  a  new  political  era.  The  Nepali  Congress 
Party  obtained  a  workable  majority  within  the  framework  of  a  con- 
stitutional monarchy  and  affirmed  the  rise  of  a  nascent  democratic 
force. 

One  of  the  ramifications  of  the  prodemocracy  movement  was 
the  beginning  of  a  process  of  integration  in  national  politics  and 
decision  making.  With  an  elected  Parliament  and  demands  for  an 
equitable  allocation  of  resources  to  different  regions,  it  was  likely 
that  all  regions  would  compete  for  equality  in  national  politics  and 
that  the  monopoly  of  power  by  select  families  would  erode,  as  would 
the  excessive  influence  of  the  Kathmandu  Valley  Brahman,  Chhetri, 
and  Newar  elites. 

At  the  beginning  of  1990,  the  panchayat  system  still  dominated 
Nepal.  Although  the  institution  itself  was  the  object  of  derision  from 
opponents  of  the  panchayat  system,  it  appeared  unthreatened.  Within 
a  few  months,  however,  its  position  eroded  and  then  crumbled  with 
bewildering  speed.  The  surge  of  the  successful  prodemocracy  move- 
ment sweeping  Eastern  Europe,  parts  of  the  Soviet  Union,  and 
several  Asian  countries  profoundly  inspired  the  Nepalese  people. 
Also  contributing  to  the  sudden  transformation  were  the  economic 
woes  of  Nepal,  exacerbated  by  India's  refusal  to  renew  a  trade  and 
transit  agreement;  widespread  bureaucratic  inefficiency  and  cor- 
ruption at  all  levels  of  government;  the  misgivings  openly  expressed 
by  the  international  donors  over  the  country's  inefficient  use  of 
aid;  and  a  deplorable  record  on  human  rights. 

In  January  1990,  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  held  its  first  na- 
tional convention  in  thirty  years  in  Kathmandu.  It  was  well  at- 
tended by  party  delegates  from  all  districts  and  observers  from  all 


164 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


political  parties.  Also  present  was  a  multiparty  delegation  from  In- 
dia, headed  by  Janata  Dal  (People's  Party)  leader  Chandra  Shek- 
har,  who  subsequently  became  India's  prime  minister.  The  Nepali 
Congress  Party  cooperated  with  the  United  Left  Front  parties,  a 
coalition  of  seven  communist  factions,  in  a  joint  program  to  replace 
the  panchayat  system  with  a  multiparty  political  system  and  launched 
the  Movement  for  the  Restoration  of  Democracy,  or  prodemocracy 
movement. 

Beginning  on  February  18,  1990 — the  thirty-ninth  anniversary 
of  King  Tribhuvan's  declaration  of  a  multiparty  democracy  and 
the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  antidemocratic  usurpation  of  pow- 
er by  the  palace — a  series  of  spontaneous  and  sometimes  turbu- 
lent mass  demonstrations  rocked  major  cities.  People  took  to  the 
streets  to  demand  the  restoration  of  a  multiparty  democracy,  hu- 
man rights,  and  fundamental  freedoms.  The  success  of  the  Kath- 
mandu  bandh  (general  strike)  by  prodemocracy  forces  on  March 
2  was  repeated  in  other  parts  of  the  country  over  the  course  of  seven 
weeks.  By  the  time  the  movement  succeeded  in  totally  uprooting 
the  panchayat  system,  at  least  fifty  people  were  dead,  and  thousands 
were  injured  as  a  result  of  the  force  used  by  the  authorities  in  sup- 
pressing the  agitation.  The  government  also  had  incarcerated  na- 
tional and  district-level  leaders  of  both  the  Nepali  Congress  Party 
and  the  United  Left  Front. 

Unable  to  contain  the  widespread  public  agitation  against  the 
panchayat  system  and  the  mounting  casualties,  and  fearing  for  the 
survival  of  his  own  monarchical  status,  King  Birendra  lifted  the 
ban  on  political  parties  on  April  8.  The  unrest  persisted.  In  the 
midst  of  continued  violence,  a  royal  proclamation  on  April  16  dis- 
solved the  Rashtriya  Panchayat  and  invalidated  provisions  of  the 
1962  constitution  inconsistent  with  multiparty  democracy.  The  next 
day,  the  king  named  Nepali  Congress  Party  President  K.P.  Bhat- 
tarai,  a  moderate  who  had  spent  fourteen  years  as  a  political 
prisoner,  as  prime  minister  and  head  of  the  interim  government. 
The  government  also  freed  all  political  prisoners,  lifted  control  of 
all  domestic  and  foreign  publications,  and  established  a  commis- 
sion, known  as  the  Mullick  Commission,  to  investigate  the  recent 
loss  of  life  and  property. 

The  eleven-member  Bhattarai  cabinet,  composed  of  four  mem- 
bers of  the  Nepali  Congress  Party,  three  members  of  the  United 
Left  Front,  two  human  rights  activists,  and  two  royal  nominees, 
was  immediately  entrusted  with  the  task  of  preparing  a  new  constitu- 
tion and  holding  a  general  election.  Pending  the  adoption  of  a  new 
constitution,  the  interim  government  agreed  that  Nepal  should  re- 
main under  the  1962  constitution.  In  the  interest  of  continuity  and 


165 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

orderly  management  of  public  business,  the  interim  government 
resisted  demands  from  the  left  for  a  mass  purge  of  the  bureaucracy 
and  die-hard  panchayat  elements.  Bhattarai's  goal  was  national  recon- 
ciliation in  a  multiparty  democracy. 

After  nine  months  of  politicking,  the  constitution  was  proclaimed 
on  November  9,  1990.  Elections  to  the  House  of  Representatives 
were  held  on  May  12,  1991.  The  new  government  faced  the  im- 
mediate problems  of  restoring  law  and  order,  providing  economic 
relief  to  the  populace,  and  establishing  its  claim  to  sound  adminis- 
tration, a  somewhat  difficult  task  because  the  parties  of  the  interim 
government  had  been  in  the  opposition  for  a  long  period  of  time. 
Furthermore,  pro-panchayat  thugs  who  had  tried  to  foment  chaos 
and  law  and  order  problems  to  discredit  the  new  government  had 
to  be  brought  under  control.  The  situation  improved  as  many 
former  panchayat  leaders  who  had  previously  supported  moves  for 
a  multiparty  democracy  openly  supported  the  political  changes  and 
offered  to  cooperate  with  the  new  government — taking  advantage 
of  political  opportunism. 

Political  Parties 

The  Nepali  Congress  Party 

The  Nepali  Congress  Party,  a  reform-oriented  centrist  party, 
has  been  in  continuous  operation  since  it  was  founded  under  a  slight- 
ly different  name  in  1947.  Elected  to  office  in  1959  in  a  landslide 
victory,  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  government  sought  to  liberal- 
ize society  through  a  democratic  process.  The  palace  coup  of  1960 
led  to  the  imprisonment  of  the  powerful  Nepali  Congress  Party 
leader,  B.P.  Koirala,  and  other  party  stalwarts;  many  other  mem- 
bers sought  sanctuary  in  exile  in  India. 

Although  political  parties  were  prohibited  from  1960  to  1963  and 
continued  to  be  outlawed  during  the  panchayat  system  under  the 
aegis  of  the  Associations  and  Organizations  (Control)  Act  of  1963, 
the  Nepali  Congress  Party  persisted.  The  party  placed  great  em- 
phasis on  eliminating  the  feudal  economy  and  building  a  basis  for 
socioeconomic  development.  It  proposed  nationalizing  basic  indus- 
tries and  instituting  progressive  taxes  on  land,  urban  housing,  sal- 
aries, profits,  and  foreign  investments.  While  in  exile,  the  Nepali 
Congress  Party  served  as  the  nucleus  around  which  other  opposi- 
tion groups  clustered  and  even  instigated  popular  uprisings  in  the 
Hill  and  Tarai  regions.  During  this  time,  the  Nepali  Congress  Party 
refused  the  overtures  of  a  radical  faction  of  the  Communist  Party 
of  Nepal  for  a  tactical  alliance. 

Although  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  demonstrated  its  ability  to 


166 


Basantapur  Square,  close  to  Kathmandu 's  Durbar  Square,  site  of  the  former 
royal  palace,  now  a  bustling  venue  for  souvenir  sellers  and  other  vendors 

Courtesy  Harvey  Follender 

endure,  it  was  weakened  over  time  by  defection,  factionalism,  and 
external  pressures.  Nevertheless,  it  continued  to  be  the  only  or- 
ganized party  to  press  for  democratization.  In  the  1980  referen- 
dum, it  supported  the  multiparty  option  in  opposition  to  the 
panchayat  system.  In  1981  the  party  boycotted  the  Rashtriya  Pan- 
chayat  elections  and  rejected  the  new  government.  The  death  in 
1982  of  B.P.  Koirala,  who  had  consistendy  advocated  constitutional 
reforms  and  a  broad-based  policy  of  national  reconciliation,  fur- 
ther weakened  the  party. 

In  the  1980s,  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  abandoned  its  socialis- 
tic economic  program  in  favor  of  a  mixed  economy,  privatization, 
and  a  market  economy  in  certain  sectors.  Its  foreign  policy  orien- 
tation was  to  nonalignment  and  good  relations  with  India.  Although 
the  party  also  boycotted  the  1986  elections  to  the  Rashtriya  Pan- 
chayat, its  members  were  allowed  to  run  in  the  1987  local  elec- 
tions. In  defiance  of  the  ban  on  demonstrations,  the  Nepali  Congress 
Party  organized  mass  rallies  in  January  1990  that  ultimately  trig- 
gered the  prodemocracy  movement. 

Following  the  humiliating  defeat  of  party  leader  K.P.  Bhattarai 
by  the  communist  factions  in  the  1991  parliamentary  elections,  Giri- 
ja  Prasad  (G.P.)  Koirala  was  chosen  by  the  Nepali  Congress  Party 


167 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

as  leader  of  its  Parliamentary  Board.  As  prime  minister,  he  formed 
the  first  elected  democratic  government  in  Nepal  in  thirty- two  years. 
G.P.  Koirala  was  the  third  of  the  Koirala  brothers  to  become  prime 
minister.  Along  with  his  elder  brother,  B.P.  Koirala,  he  was  ar- 
rested in  1960  and  was  not  released  until  1967.  After  a  period  of 
exile  that  began  in  1971,  he  returned  to  Nepal  in  1979  under  a 
general  amnesty.  He  was  elected  general  secretary  of  the  party  in 
1976  in  a  convention  at  Patna  and  played  a  key  role  in  the 
prodemocracy  movement.  G.P.  Koirala  was  known  for  favoring 
reconciliation  with  the  left,  but  he  also  wanted  to  pursue  national 
unity  and  Western-style  democracy. 

The  Communist  Parties 

Like  the  Nepali  Congress  Party,  the  fractured  communist  move- 
ment was  deeply  indebted  to  its  Indian  counterpart,  whose  initia- 
tive had  helped  to  found  the  Communist  Party  of  Nepal  (Marxist) 
in  1949  in  Calcutta.  Nepalese  communists  looked  askance  at  the 
Nepali  Congress  Party  leadership  as  willing  collaborators  of  Indi- 
an expansionism  and  called  for  broad-based  alliances  of  all  progres- 
sive forces  for  the  establishment  of  a  people's  democracy. 

As  many  as  seventeen  factions,  ranging  from  the  quasi-establish- 
ment  royal  communists  to  extremely  radical  fringe  groups,  vied  for 
leadership  and  control,  preventing  the  movement  from  making  sig- 
nificant gains.  The  proscription  of  political  parties  in  1960  affected 
the  communists  less  severely  than  other  parties  because  communist 
factions  proved  better  at  organizing  and  operating  underground 
and  at  making  the  transition  to  covert  activity.  Little  effort  was  ex- 
erted to  detain  communist  leaders,  and  in  the  months  following 
the  palace  coup  d'etat  in  1960,  the  Communist  Party  of  Nepal 
(Marxist)  was  allowed  to  operate  with  a  perceptibly  greater  amount 
of  freedom  than  any  other  party.  The  Communist  Party  of  Nepal 
(Marxist-Leninist)  was  established  in  1978,  one  of  many  splinter 
groups  under  the  name  Communist  Party  of  Nepal.  In  spite  of 
many  vicissitudes  encountered  since  the  movement's  inception,  the 
communists  maintained  national  attention  because  of  continued 
support  from  the  peasant  and  worker  organizations  and  the  fact 
that  the  country's  poverty  and  deprivation  offered  a  fertile  ground 
for  Marxist  ideals.  Support  was  maintained  through  the  All  Peasants 
Union  and  the  Nepal  Trade  Union  Congress. 

Communist  groups  wielded  significant  influence  in  the  univer- 
sities and  professional  groups.  The  movement  had  a  dedicated  cadre 
of  motivated  youth  who  followed  party  discipline  strictiy.  Whereas 
the  Nepali  Congress  Party  seemed  to  accommodate  the  old  guard  at 
the  expense  of  the  younger  generation,  communists  more  ardently 


168 


Flags  of  the  Communist 
Party  of  Nepal  and  the 
Nepali  Congress  Party  fly 
over  a  small  urban  shrine 
near  the  center 
of  Kathmandu. 
Courtesy 
John  N  Gunning 


sought  younger  members.  Most  of  the  mainstream  communist 
groups  in  the  1980s  believed  in  democracy  and  a  multiparty  sys- 
tem, recognized  no  international  communist  headquarters  or  lead- 
ers, and  abjured  the  Maoism  many  had  embraced  earlier. 

The  United  Left  Front  coalition,  organized  in  late  1989,  sup- 
ported multiparty  democracy.  During  the  prodemocracy  move- 
ment, it  played  a  crucial  role  by  joining  the  interim  government 
led  by  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  and  by  submerging  serious  differ- 
ences of  opinion.  Although  differences  in  the  communist  camp  were 
endemic  when  the  movement  was  underground,  the  internal  con- 
flicts lessened  as  communists  operated  openly  and  began  to  look 
toward  future  electoral  gains. 

The  success  of  the  communist  parties  in  the  May  12,  1991 ,  elec- 
tion came  as  a  shock  to  the  Nepali  Congress  Party,  which  had  failed 
to  repeat  its  1959  landslide  victory.  Although  there  was  some  uni- 
ty among  the  communist  factions  of  the  United  Left  Front,  there 
was  no  agreement  to  share  seats  with  the  other  factions  or  groups. 
The  Communist  Party  of  Nepal  (United  Marxist-Leninist) 
faction — formed  as  a  result  of  a  merger  between  the  Communist 
Party  of  Nepal  (Marxist)  and  the  Communist  Party  of  Nepal 
(Marxist-Leninist) — came  in  second  to  the  Nepali  Congress  Party. 
The  head  of  the  communist  leadership  echelon  was  Madan  Bhan- 
dari,  son  of  a  Brahman  priest,  who  was  working  to  turn  his  Com- 
munist Party  of  Nepal  (United  Marxist-Leninist)  into  a  formidable 


169 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

political  power.  He  stunned  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  in  the  1991 
elections  by  narrowly  defeating  its  leader,  K.P.  Bhattarai,  for  a 
parliamentary  seat  in  Kathmandu. 

As  a  partner  in  the  interim  coalition  government,  the  Communist 
Party  of  Nepal  (United  Marxist-Leninist)  had  endorsed,  although 
reluctantly,  the  new  constitution,  which  retained  the  monarchy. 
The  communists  received  popular  support  for  their  allegations  that 
the  Nepali  Congress  Party  was  too  close  to  India  and  was  a  threat 
to  Nepal's  sovereignty.  Other  mainstream  communist  leaders  were 
Man  Mohan  Adhikari  and  Sahana  Pradhan,  both  originally  of  the 
Communist  Party  of  Nepal  (Marxist);  and  Bishnu  Bahadur 
Manandhar  of  the  Communist  Party  of  Nepal  (Manandhar), 
another  communist  faction. 

Other  Political  Parties 

There  was  a  phenomenal  rise  in  the  number  of  political  parties — 
particularly  between  May  and  September  1990 — as  strategic 
maneuvers  to  participate  in  parliamentary  elections  and  find  a  niche 
in  postelection  Nepal  occurred.  The  Nepal  Sadbhavana  Party  (Good 
Will  Party),  one  of  several  regional  and  ethnic  parties,  was  found- 
ed in  April  1990.  It  aimed  at  promoting  the  interests  of  the  Tarai 
Region,  including  the  expulsion  of  the  Hill  people  from  Tarai  and 
the  establishment  of  a  special  relationship  with  India  in  the  frame- 
work of  nonalignment.  A  forum  for  people  of  Indian  descent,  the 
party  also  favored  the  introduction  of  Hindi  as  the  second  national 
language.  Its  ideology  supported  a  democratic  socialist  society. 
Other  Tarai  Region  parties  included  the  Nepal  Tarai  Unity  Fo- 
rum, the  Nepal  Tarai  Association,  and  the  Nepal  Tarai  Muslim 
Congress  Party. 

Among  the  several  ethnic  parties  were  the  National  People's 
Liberation  Front  (Nepal  Rashtriya  Jana  Mukti  Morcha),  the  Na- 
tional Mongol  Organization  (Rashtriya  Mongol  Sanghatan), 
SETAMAGURALI  (an  acronym  of  names  of  different  ethnic 
groups  of  eastern  Nepal  including  the  Tamang,  Magar,  and 
Gurung),  the  Front  of  the  Kirat  Aborigines  (Nepal  Kirat  Adhiba- 
si  Janajiti  Morch),  the  Freedom  Front  of  the  Limbu  People  (Lim- 
buwan  Mukli  Morcha),  and  the  Nepal  Nationalist  Gorkha  Parishad, 
or  Parishad  (Nepal  Rashtrabadi  Gorkha  Parishad).  The  Parishad, 
revived  in  September  1990,  was  founded  in  1951  as  part  of  Rana 
revivalist  politics  and  had  placed  second  in  the  1959  general  elec- 
tions. Some  of  its  senior  leaders  later  joined  the  Nepali  Congress 
or  pancha  camps. 

Of  those  groups  favoring  the  monarchy,  two  conservative  par- 
ties received  considerable  attention.  Hastily  founded  by  two  former 


170 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


prime  ministers,  both  parties  were  called  the  National  Democratic 
Party — suffixed  with  the  names  Thapa  or  Chand  enclosed  within 
brackets.  Other  parties  of  this  political  bent  included  the  National 
Democratic  Unity  Panchayat  Party  (Rashtriya  Prajatantrik  Ekata 
Panchayat  Party),  Nepal  Welfare  Party  (Nepal  Janahit  Party),  United 
Democratic  Party  (Samyukti  Prajatantra  Party),  and  Nepal  Pan- 
chayat Council  (Nepal  Panchayat  Parishad). 

Besides  the  Nepali  Congress  Party,  fifteen  centrist  parties  also 
had  emerged.  Most  of  these  parties  were  founded  by  former  mem- 
bers of  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  and  defecting  pancha  who  had 
shifted  allegiance  to  the  multiparty  system.  The  Women's 
Democratic  Party  aimed  at  promoting  the  rights,  interests,  and  free- 
doms of  Nepalese  women. 

Elections 

The  1981  Elections 

Growing  political  unrest,  accompanied  by  massive  demonstra- 
tions, forced  King  Birendra,  as  a  palliative  tactic,  to  call  for  a  na- 
tionwide referendum  to  choose  the  form  of  government.  Following 
the  May  2,  1980,  referendum — the  subject  of  charges  of  rigging — 
the  panchayat  system  was  reaffirmed.  However,  members  of  the 
Rashtriya  Panchayat  would  henceforth  be  elected  directly  by  the 
people  on  the  basis  of  universal  adult  suffrage. 

In  May  1981 ,  the  king  promulgated  the  third  amendment  to  the 
1962  constitution  incorporating  the  results  of  the  referendum.  There 
was  no  change  in  the  fundamental  principle  of  partylessness;  all 
candidates  for  the  Rashtriya  Panchayat  competed  as  individuals. 

The  first  direct  election  to  the  Rashtriya  Panchayat  was  held  in 
May  1981 .  In  the  midst  of  an  election  boycott  by  the  Nepali  Con- 
gress Party  and  other  banned  political  parties,  the  exercise  only 
legitimized  the  administration  of  Prime  Minister  Thapa  as  a 
democratically  elected  popular  government.  Indirectly,  however, 
the  election  was  counterproductive  because  it  intensified  further 
the  increasingly  sharp  divisions  within  the  various  panchayat  and 
the  continued  opposition  of  the  Nepali  Congress  Party,  various  com- 
munist factions,  and  peasants'  and  workers'  organizations. 

There  were  1,096  candidates  contesting  112  seats  in  the  1981 
elections.  Campaign  appeals  were  made  on  regional,  ethnic,  and 
caste  lines  rather  than  on  broad  national  issues.  Among  the  con- 
testants were  forty-five  candidates  from  pro-Moscow  communist 
factions,  thirty-six  candidates  from  the  Nepali  Congress  Party,  and 
several  multiparty  pancha.  Voter  turnout  was  63  percent.  Despite 


171 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Thapa's  reelection,  more  than  70  percent  of  the  official  candidates 
were  defeated.  Candidates  who  supported  the  multiparty  system  also 
fared  poorly.  The  election  of  fifty-nine  new  members  in  the  Rashtriya 
Panchayat  indicated  the  voters'  rejection  of  the  old  guard.  The  in- 
direct participation  of  the  political  parties  was  a  symbolic  gesture 
toward  national  consensus  and  reconciliation;  the  chief  protagonist 
was  the  moderate  Nepali  Congress  Party  leader,  B.P.  Koirala. 

In  the  tradition  of  panchayat  political  patterns  of  instability,  the 
quick  fix  of  a  referendum  and  new  elections  failed  to  restore  polit- 
ical equilibrium  to  the  system.  Corruption  and  general  adminis- 
trative inertia  further  vitiated  the  political  climate.  Even  senior 
panchayat  leaders,  who  were  openly  critical  of  the  system,  became 
willing  participants  in  intrigues,  which  only  precipitated  counter- 
plots by  paranoid  palace  advisers.  Clashes  between  students,  which 
were  at  times  supported  by  faculty  members,  created  disturbances 
throughout  the  country. 

The  1986  Elections 

Between  the  1981  and  1986  elections,  there  was  a  growing  rift 
among  the  pancha.  Without  a  viable  economic  and  political  pro- 
gram, disillusionment  with  the  panchayat  system  increased.  In  the 
face  of  a  deteriorating  economy,  faltering  development  plans,  and 
the  failure  of  the  panchayati  raj  to  inspire  motivation  and  confidence 
in  an  already  demoralized  bureaucracy,  the  credibility  of  the  govern- 
ment waned.  The  banned  political  parties,  especially  the  Nepali 
Congress  Party,  after  initial  efforts  at  reconciliation,  concentrated 
on  organizational  work  and  the  demand  for  political  pluralism.  Most 
political  activities,  however,  were  noticeable  only  within  the  pan- 
chayat system  itself.  Appointed  in  1983,  the  new  prime  minister, 
Lokendra  Bahadur  Chand,  had  a  no-confidence  motion  filed  against 
him  immediately  after  taking  office.  The  motion  was  declared  in- 
admissible on  the  grounds  of  errors  in  drafting,  but  this  power  strug- 
gle among  different  groups  of  pancha  further  undermined  the 
panchayat  system. 

The  uneasy  political  stalemate  was  upset  when  in  late  May  1985, 
the  Nepali  Congress  Party,  in  preparation  for  the  1986  election, 
decided  to  launch  a  satyagraha  (civil  disobedience)  campaign — in 
which  many  communists  also  participated — to  demand  reforms  in 
the  political  system.  A  large  number  of  Nepali  Congress  Party  ac- 
tivists were  quickly  arrested.  Although  the  campaign  generally 
lacked  popular  support,  it  received  considerable  attention  and  in- 
terest among  intellectuals  and  students,  caused  tension  within  the 
government,  and  further  divided  the  already  fractured  panchayat. 
Kathmandu  also  was  subjected  to  violence,  including  explosions 


172 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


that  rocked  the  royal  palace  and  other  key  buildings.  There  was 
further  discontent  when,  at  the  panchayat  workers'  annual  congress, 
the  moot  issue  of  government  accountability  to  the  legislature  was 
disallowed  from  discussion. 

In  a  politically  charged  atmosphere,  the  second  quinquennial 
nationwide  election  to  the  Rashtriya  Panchayat  was  held  in  May 
1986.  Slightly  more  than  9  million  voters  cast  their  ballots  for  1 ,584 
candidates  for  112  seats.  According  to  official  sources,  60  percent 
of  all  eligible  voters  participated  in  the  election. 

The  election  was  marked  by  a  lack  of  enthusiasm,  which  partly 
reflected  the  Nepali  Congress  Party's  boycott.  A  few  communist 
factions  contested  the  election.  About  20  percent  of  the  candidates 
were  elected  either  on  the  basis  of  their  roles  as  champions  of  the 
opposition  or  for  their  stand  against  the  elite.  Allegations  of  elec- 
toral malpractice  also  were  widely  voiced.  The  electoral  success  of 
forty-five  Chettris  and  Thakuris,  sixteen  Hill  Brahmans,  and  seven 
Newars  indicated  that  the  traditional  power  structure  remained 
largely  unaffected.  Marich  Man  Singh  Shrestha,  a  Newar,  was  ap- 
pointed prime  minister.  Three  women  were  elected  to  the  Rashtriya 
Panchayat  from  the  Tarai  Region,  but  no  Muslims  were  elected. 

Local  Elections  in  1987 

In  contrast  to  the  procedure  followed  in  the  1986  elections,  the 
Nepali  Congress  Party  and  a  number  of  communist  factions  al- 
lowed their  members  to  participate  as  individuals  in  the  1987  local 
elections.  The  Nepali  Congress  Party  also  made  it  clear  that  its 
local  election  strategy  did  not  mean  an  end  to  its  opposition  or 
resistance  to  the  panchayat  system.  In  urban  areas,  especially  in  the 
Tarai  Region,  certain  party  members,  as  well  as  some  communists, 
did  very  well  and  were  returned  to  office  in  substantial  numbers. 

The  1991  Elections 

For  many  Nepalese,  participation  in  the  democratic  process 
meant  either  walking  for  hours  along  mountain  paths  or  riding  a 
yak  to  cast  a  ballot.  Since  most  voters  were  illiterate,  they  had  to 
choose  a  candidate  according  to  the  party's  symbol  as  authorized 
by  the  election  commission;  for  example,  a  tree  signified  the  Nepali 
Congress  Party  and  a  sun  represented  the  Communist  Party  of 
Nepal  (United  Marxist-Leninist). 

Although  forty-four  parties  were  recognized  by  the  Election  Com- 
mission, only  twenty  parties  actually  contested  the  elections.  The 
twenty  parties  ranged  across  the  political  spectrum  from  radical 
right  to  loyalist  leftist  and  all  except  a  leftwing  radical  faction,  Masai 
(Torch),  eagerly  participated  in  the  elections.  Twelve  parties  did 


173 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

not  win  a  single  seat  and  obtained  a  total  of  only  about  82,500  votes, 
slightly  more  than  1  percent  of  the  total  valid  votes.  Many  voters 
seemed  to  have  fallen  back  on  their  age-old  identification  with  caste 
or  ethnic  community.  Younger  voters  favored  the  progressive  leftist 
parties,  as  did  voters  in  the  urban  areas. 

The  Nepali  Congress  Party  won  the  first  multiparty  election  in 
thirty-two  years,  taking  110  seats  in  the  205-member  House  of 
Representatives.  The  results  of  the  elections,  however,  demonstrat- 
ed that  a  coalition  of  various  communist  parties  was  a  major  polit- 
ical force  in  Nepalese  politics,  defying  the  international  trend  of 
dismanding  communist  parties  and  regimes.  The  Communist  Party 
of  Nepal  (United  Marxist-Leninist),  a  constituent  of  the  United 
Left  Front,  won  sixty-nine  seats.  The  three  other  communist  par- 
ties of  the  United  Left  Front  coalition  won  a  total  of  thirteen  seats. 
Besides  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  and  the  Communist  Party  of 
Nepal  (United  Marxist- Leninist)  alliance,  four  other  parties  quali- 
fied for  national  party  status,  which  meant  they  polled  more  than 
3  percent  of  the  total  votes  cast. 

The  election  was  marked  by  heavy  voter  turnout.  Of  a  total  of 
more  than  11  million  voters,  about  7  million,  or  65  percent,  cast 
ballots,  of  which  slightly  more  than  4  percent  were  declared  in- 
valid on  technical  grounds.  The  election  results  made  it  very  clear 
that  the  promonarchists  and  those  in  favor  of  the  panchayat  sys- 
tem lacked  national  support.  Communist  parties  won  in  the  Kath- 
mandu  Valley  and  some  parts  of  the  eastern  Tarai  Region.  The 
Nepali  Congress  Party  won  in  other  parts  of  the  Tarai  Region  and 
in  western  Nepal.  The  National  Democratic  Party  (Chand)  won 
three  seats,  and  the  National  Democratic  Party  (Thapa)  won  only 
one  seat.  The  four  members  of  those  parties,  six  Nepal  Sadbhavana 
Party  members,  and  independents  were  expected  to  join  the  moder- 
ate Nepali  Congress  Party.  All  leftist  elements  under  the  Com- 
munist Party  of  Nepal  (United  Marxist- Leninist)  umbrella  were 
likely  to  form  a  solid  opposition  in  Parliament  to  the  Nepali  Con- 
gress Party  government. 

The  new  House  of  Representatives  included  thirteen  members 
of  the  dissolved  Rashtriya  Panchayat,  five  Muslims,  seven  wom- 
en, and  six  members  of  the  Parliament  that  had  been  dissolved 
in  1960.  Although  the  number  of  women  representatives  was  much 
lower  than  was  hoped  for,  Muslim  representation  was  compara- 
ble to  their  proportion  of  the  population.  Also  notable  was  the  per- 
formance of  the  ethnic  or  regional  parties,  in  particular  the 
Tarai-based  Nepal  Sadbhavana  Party,  which  polled  4  percent  of 
the  valid  votes,  allowing  it  to  claim  the  status  of  a  national  party. 
Out  of  the  five  seats  in  Kathmandu,  the  Nepali  Congress  Party 


174 


Election  Commission  building  in  Kathmandu,  formerly  a  Russian  hotel 

Courtesy  Janet  MacDonald 

won  one  seat;  the  rest  were  swept  by  the  Communist  Party  of  Nepal 
(United  Marxist-Leninist).  The  average  age  of  the  newly  elected 
members  of  the  House  of  Representatives  was  forty-three. 

Kathmandu  citizens  made  it  clear  that  they  had  enough  of  po- 
litical dynasties.  The  son  and  wife  of  Nepali  Congress  Party  figure- 
head Ganesh  Man  Singh  ran  for  two  of  the  high-profile  seats;  both 
were  defeated  by  communist  candidates.  In  the  prestigious  con- 
test for  a  seat  in  Kathmandu,  the  Communist  Party  of  Nepal  (Unit- 
ed Marxist-Leninist)  general  secretary,  Madan  Bhandari,  defeated 
interim  Prime  Minister  K.P.  Bhattarai.  The  poor  showing  of  the 
Nepali  Congress  Party  in  the  urban  areas  may  also  be  attributed 
to  the  fact  that,  given  that  the  communists  had  been  banned  for 
thirty  years,  the  party  did  not  see  them  as  potential  opposition  and 
was  overconfident. 

The  continuing  transition  from  a  partyless  panchayat  system  to 
a  multiparty  democracy  was  relatively  peaceful,  although  there  were 
some  incidents  of  sporadic  violence.  Six  deaths  in  preelection  vio- 
lence were  reported,  but  no  election-related  deaths  were  confirmed 
on  polling  day.  Police  enforced  a  curfew  during  the  long  wait  for 
election  results.  Because  of  election  irregularities  and  violence,  the 
Election  Commission — which  enjoyed  the  confidence  of  all  the 


175 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

parties — ordered  repolling  at  44  of  8,225  polling  centers,  affecting 
31  constituencies. 

In  response  to  the  interim  government's  invitation  to  interna- 
tional observers,  a  host  of  Asians,  Europeans,  and  North  Ameri- 
cans journeyed  to  Kathmandu.  Among  the  observers  was  a 
sixty-four  member  international  observation  delegation,  represent- 
ing twenty- two  countries,  which  was  organized  by  Nepal's  National 
Election  Observation  Committee.  The  committee  was  an  offshoot 
of  Nepal's  Forum  for  the  Protection  of  Human  Rights.  The  inter- 
national delegation  concluded  that  the  elections  generally  were  con- 
ducted in  a  fair,  free,  and  open  manner  and  that  the  parties  were 
able  to  campaign  unimpaired.  Complaints  were  received  that  equal 
and  adequate  access  to  radio  and  television  was  denied,  however, 
and  that  the  code  of  conduct  and  campaign  spending  limitations 
were  violated.  The  delegation  also  recognized  that,  as  confirmed 
by  the  Election  Commission,  from  5  to  10  percent  of  eligible  voters 
were  not  registered  and  that  there  were  some  inaccuracies  in  voter 
lists. 

On  May  29,  1991,  a  Nepali  Congress  Party  government  was 
installed  with  G.P.  Koirala  as  prime  minister.  The  first  session  of 
Parliament  was  held  on  June  20.  The  new  government  faced  two 
enormous  tasks,  both  of  which  concerned  India:  the  negotiation 
of  a  new  trade  and  transit  treaty,  and  the  exploitation  of  Nepal's 
only  major  natural  resource,  water,  for  hydroelectric  power  for  pur- 
chase by  India.  Further,  although  the  Communist  Party  of  Nepal 
(United  Marxist-Leninist)  faction  wanted  to  end  recruitment  of 
the  Gurkhas  into  the  British  and  Indian  armies,  the  Nepali  Con- 
gress Party  wanted  neither  to  outrage  the  Gurkhas  nor  to  deprive 
the  country  of  the  foreign  remittances  sent  by  the  soldiers  (see  Gur- 
khas Serving  Abroad,  ch.  5). 

The  Media 

Previous  constitutions  guaranteed  freedom  of  expression  as  a  ba- 
sic right,  but  in  practice  this  right  was  severely  curtailed.  Prepub- 
lication  censorship,  cancellation  of  registration  for  publication,  and 
other  similar  restrictive  regulations  severely  handicapped  the  free- 
dom of  the  press,  and  journalists  operated  under  constant  threats 
of  harassment  and  imprisonment.  In  1960  the  king  decreed  that 
all  newspapers  were  required  to  obtain  official  clearance  for  reports 
of  political  activities.  In  1962  a  government-controlled  news  agen- 
cy, Rashtriya  Sambad  Samity,  was  established  to  collect  and  dis- 
tribute news  about  and  within  the  country.  The  Samity  monopoly 
continued  until  the  success  of  the  prodemocracy  movement.  In  ad- 
dition, provisions  of  the  Freedom  of  Speech  Publications  Act  of 


176 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


1980  limited  the  publication  of  materials  that  might  undermine  the 
interests  of  sovereignty  of  the  nation;  contravene  principles  that 
underlie  the  constitution;  or  encourage,  abet,  or  propagate  party 
politics.  This  act  was  repealed  in  July  1990. 

The  constitution  guarantees  the  freedom  of  the  press  as  a  fun- 
damental right.  It  also  prohibits  the  censoring  of  news  items,  arti- 
cles, or  any  other  reading  materials  and  states  that  a  press  cannot 
be  closed  or  seized  for  printing  any  news  item,  article,  or  any  other 
reading  materials.  In  addition,  the  registration  of  a  newspaper  or 
periodical  cannot  be  cancelled  for  publishing  offensive  news  arti- 
cles or  reading  material.  The  operation  of  a  free  press  is  circum- 
scribed, however,  by  vague  restrictions  against  undermining  the 
sovereignty  and  integrity  of  Nepal;  disturbing  the  harmonious  re- 
lations among  the  people  of  different  castes,  classes,  or  communi- 
ties; violating  decent  public  behavior  morality;  instigating  crimes; 
or  committing  sedition  or  contempt  of  court.  During  the  1980s, 
several  journalists  were  incarcerated  and  held  without  trial  under 
the  Public  Security  Act  and  the  Treason  Act. 

The  Nepalese  press  was  supportive  of  the  prodemocracy  move- 
ment. When  the  government  repressed  the  movement,  the  Cen- 
tral Committee  of  the  Nepal  Journalists  Association,  headed  by 
Govinda  Binyogi,  issued  a  statement  that  declared  all  censorship, 
banning  of  newspapers,  and  arrests  of  journalists  as  illegal,  un- 
constitutional, and  undemocratic.  The  Nepal  Journalists  Associa- 
tion reported  that  between  January  and  April  1990,  forty  journalists 
were  arrested  for  comments  criticizing  the  government.  During  the 
same  period,  several  newspapers  halted  publication  to  protest  the 
government's  attempts  at  precensorship.  More  than  ten  papers  had 
entire  issues  seized  by  government  authorities  when  they  ran  arti- 
cles considered  overtly  critical.  Several  newspapers  were  severely 
pressed  financially  after  successive  government  seizures. 

Since  the  momentous  political  changes  of  April  1990,  freedom 
of  the  press  has  come  into  question  only  once,  in  November  1990, 
when  authorities  charged  two  reporters  with  slandering  the  royal 
family  in  print.  Charges  were  dismissed  in  December  following  pro- 
tests by  the  Nepal  Journalist  Association  to  the  prime  minister. 
An  editor  also  was  detained  overnight  in  November  1990  for  pub- 
lishing insulting  remarks  against  the  queen,  but  charges  were  not 
pressed.  As  of  mid- 1991,  there  were  no  reports  of  the  seizing  or 
banning  of  foreign  publications  deemed  to  have  carried  articles  un- 
favorable to  the  government  or  the  monarchy. 

In  1991  there  were  approximately  400  Nepalese  newspapers  and 
periodicals,  including  a  dozen  national  dailies  with  a  combined  circu- 
lation of  more  than  125,000.  The  circulation  of  other  newspapers, 


177 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

journals,  and  magazines  was  limited  to  only  a  few  hundred  copies 
each. 

Except  for  two  English  dailies,  Rising  Nepal  and  Commoner,  both 
published  in  Kathmandu,  other  widely  circulating  newspapers  were 
published  in  Nepali.  These  included  Gorkhapatra,  Samichhya,  Matri- 
bhumi,  Rostra  Pukar,  Daily  News,  Samaya,  and  Janadoot.  The  num- 
ber of  publications  in  Hindi  and  Newari,  however,  was  increasing 
in  the  late  1980s. 

The  daily  Gorkhapatra  and  Rising  Nepal  were  government  organs. 
Before  the  success  of  the  prodemocracy  movement,  both  govern- 
ment dailies  primarily  provided  coverage  of  official  views,  carried 
virtually  no  information  on  opposition  activities,  and  muted  criti- 
cism of  the  government.  Nepal  Raj  Patra,  the  principal  government 
publication  since  1951,  contained  texts  of  laws,  decrees,  procla- 
mations, and  royal  orders  and  was  available  in  both  English  and 
Nepali. 

Because  of  the  government's  near  monopoly  on  domestic  news, 
many  newspaper  readers  relied  on  foreign  publications.  They  re- 
lied on  as  Statesman,  Times  of  India,  and  Hindustan  Times — all  from 
India — and  the  Pacific  editions  of  Time,  Newsweek,  and  China  To- 
day, published  in  India  in  Hindi,  English,  and  Nepali. 

Much  of  the  fast  proliferating  printed  matter  was  read  only  by 
a  small  elite  and  by  government  functionaries  in  the  Kathmandu 
Valley.  Staggeringly  widespread  illiteracy  (about  33  percent  of  the 
population  were  literate  in  1990),  lack  of  a  transport  infrastruc- 
ture, the  general  apathy  of  the  rural  people  toward  the  affairs  of 
Kathmandu — to  which  the  press  devoted  a  major  share  of 
coverage — and  a  general  reliance  on  oral  transmission  of  informa- 
tion rather  than  on  the  written  word  were  among  the  factors  that 
impeded  the  dissemination  of  publications.  By  April  1990,  however, 
news  coverage  had  broadened  to  reflect  a  wide  range  of  views. 
Although  in  most  circumstances  editorial  views  reflected  govern- 
ment policy,  editors  did  at  times  exercise  the  right  to  publish  criti- 
cal views  and  alternative  policies. 

Electronic  media  consisted  of  radio  and  television  programming 
controlled  by  the  government.  Radio  Nepal  broadcast  on  short- 
wave and  medium-wave  both  in  Nepali  and  English  from  trans- 
mitters in  Jawalakhel  and  Khumaltar  (see  Communications,  ch. 
3).  Nepal  Television  Corporation  broadcast  twenty-three  hours  of 
programs  per  week  from  its  station  at  Singha  Durbar,  Kathman- 
du. Transmitters  also  were  located  at  Pokhara,  Biratnagar,  and 
Hetauda.  Prior  to  the  unrest  of  1990,  programming  closely  reflected 
the  views  of  the  government.  Although  coverage  of  government 
criticism  remained  inadequate,  programming  in  1991  reflected  a 


178 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


broader  range  of  interests  and  political  views.  The  Voice  of  Ameri- 
ca, the  British  Broadcasting  Corporation,  and  several  other  Euro- 
pean and  Asian  networks  were  monitored  in  Nepal. 

Foreign  Policy 

A  landlocked  country,  Nepal  is  sandwiched  between  two  giant 
neighbors — China  and  India  (see  fig.  1;  The  Land,  ch.  2).  To  the 
north,  the  Himalayas  constitute  a  natural  and  mostly  impassible 
frontier,  and  beyond  that  is  the  border  with  China.  To  the  south, 
east,  and  west,  Nepal  is  hemmed  in  by  India.  Without  an  outlet 
to  the  sea,  Nepal  has  been  dependent  on  India  for  international 
trade  and  transit  facilities. 

During  the  British  Raj  (1858-1947),  Nepal  sought  geostrategic 
isolation.  This  traditional  isolationism  partially  was  the  product 
of  the  relative  freedom  the  country  enjoyed  from  external  inter- 
vention and  domination.  From  the  mid-nineteenth  century,  when 
Britain  emerged  as  the  unchallenged  power  in  India  and  the  Qing 
Dynasty  (1644-1911)  in  China  was  in  decline,  Nepal  made  accom- 
modations with  Britain  on  the  best  possible  terms.  Without  sur- 
rendering autonomy  on  internal  matters,  Nepal  received  guarantees 
of  protection  from  Britain  against  external  aggression  and  inter- 
ference (see  Rana  Rule,  ch.  1).  London  also  considered  a  steady 
flow  of  Gurkha  recruits  from  Nepal  as  vital  to  support  Britain's 
security  in  India  and  its  other  colonial  territories. 

In  the  1950s,  Nepal  began  a  gradual  opening  up  and  a  commit- 
ment to  a  policy  of  neutrality  and  nonalignment.  At  the  1973  sum- 
mit of  the  Nonaligned  Movement  in  Algiers,  King  Birendra 
proposed  that  "Nepal,  situated  between  two  of  the  most  populous 
countries  of  the  world,  wishes  her  frontiers  to  be  declared  a  zone 
of  peace."  In  Birendra's  1975  coronation  address,  he  formally  asked 
other  countries  to  endorse  his  proposal.  Since  then,  the  concept 
of  Nepal  as  a  zone  of  peace  has  become  a  main  theme  of  Kath- 
mandu's  foreign  policy. 

As  of  mid- 1991,  Nepal  had  been  endorsed  as  a  zone  of  peace 
by  more  than  110  nations.  Many  of  these  countries  also  recom- 
mended a  regional  approach  to  peace  as  the  goal.  Without  the  en- 
dorsement of  India  and  the  former  Soviet  Union,  however,  the 
prospect  of  broader  international  acceptance  was  dim. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  Nepal  had  established  diplomatic 
relations  with  approximately  100  countries.  Nepal  was  an  active 
member  of  the  United  Nations  (UN)  and  participated  in  a  num- 
ber of  its  specialized  agencies.  Nepal  also  was  a  founding  member 
of  the  South  Asian  Association  for  Regional  Cooperation  (SAARC) 
and  had  successfully  negotiated  several  bilateral  and  multilateral 


179 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

economic,  cultural,  and  technical  assistance  programs.  Because  of 
its  geographical  proximity  to  and  historical  links  with  China  and 
India,  Nepal's  foreign  policy  was  focused  mainly  on  maintaining 
close  and  friendly  relations  with  these  two  countries  and  on  safe- 
guarding its  national  security  and  independence.  Nepal's  relations 
with  the  United  States,  Europe,  and  the  Soviet  Union  showed  new 
signs  of  vitality  in  1991. 

Relations  with  India 

Even  after  India  had  achieved  independence  from  Britain  in  1947, 
Nepalese-Indian  relations  continued  to  be  based  on  the  second 
Treaty  of  Sagauli,  which  had  been  signed  with  the  government  of 
British  India  in  1925.  Beginning  in  1950,  however,  relations  were 
based  on  two  treaties.  Under  the  Treaty  of  Peace  and  Friendship, 
ratified  in  July  1950,  each  government  agreed  to  acknowledge  and 
respect  the  other's  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity,  and  indepen- 
dence; to  continue  diplomatic  relations;  and,  on  matters  pertain- 
ing to  industrial  and  economic  development,  to  grant  rights  equal 
to  those  of  its  own  citizens  to  the  nationals  of  the  other  residing 
in  its  territory.  Agreements  on  all  subjects  in  this  treaty  superseded 
those  on  similar  matters  dealt  with  in  the  previous  treaties  between 
Nepal  and  Britain.  In  the  Treaty  of  Trade  and  Commerce,  rati- 
fied in  October  1950,  India  recognized  Nepal's  right  to  import  and 
export  commodities  through  Indian  territory  and  ports.  Customs 
could  not  be  levied  on  commodities  in  transit  through  India. 

India's  influence  over  Nepal  increased  throughout  the  1950s. 
The  Citizenship  Act  of  1952  allowed  Indians  to  immigrate  to  Nepal 
and  acquire  Nepalese  citizenship  with  ease — a  source  of  some  resent- 
ment in  Nepal.  And,  Nepalese  were  allowed  to  migrate  freely  to 
India — a  source  of  resentment  there.  (This  policy  was  not  changed 
until  1962  when  several  restrictive  clauses  were  added  to  the  Nepa- 
lese constitution.)  Also  in  1952,  an  Indian  military  mission  was 
established  in  Nepal.  In  1954  a  memorandum  provided  for  the  joint 
coordination  of  foreign  policy,  and  Indian  security  posts  were  es- 
tablished in  Nepal's  northern  frontier  (see  India,  ch.  5).  At  the 
same  time,  Nepal's  dissatisfaction  with  India's  growing  influence 
began  to  emerge,  and  overtures  to  China  were  initiated  as  a  coun- 
terweight to  India. 

King  Mahendra  continued  to  pursue  a  nonaligned  policy  be- 
gun during  the  reign  of  Prithvi  Narayan  Shah  in  the  mid-eighteenth 
century  (see  The  Expansion  of  Gorkha,  ch.  1).  In  the  late  1950s 
and  1960s,  Nepal  voted  differently  from  India  in  the  UN  unless 
India's  basic  interests  were  involved.  The  two  countries  consistently 


180 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 

remained  at  odds  over  the  rights  of  landlocked  states  to  transit  fa- 
cilities and  access  to  the  sea. 

Following  the  1962  Sino-Indian  border  war,  the  relationship  be- 
tween Kathmandu  and  New  Delhi  thawed  significantly.  India  sus- 
pended its  support  to  India-based  Nepalese  opposition  forces.  Nepal 
extracted  several  concessions,  including  transit  rights  with  other 
countries  through  India  and  access  to  Indian  markets  (see  Foreign 
Trade,  ch.  3).  In  exchange,  through  a  secret  accord  concluded  in 
1965,  similar  to  an  arrangement  that  had  been  suspended  in  1963, 
India  won  a  monopoly  on  arms  sales  to  Nepal. 

In  1969  relations  again  became  stressful  as  Nepal  challenged  the 
existing  mutual  security  arrangement  and  asked  that  the  Indian 
security  checkposts  and  liaison  group  be  withdrawn.  Resentment 
also  was  expressed  against  the  Treaty  of  Peace  and  Friendship  of 
1950.  India  grudgingly  withdrew  its  military  checkposts  and  liai- 
son group,  although  the  treaty  was  not  abrogated. 

Further  changes  in  Nepalese-Indian  relations  occurred  in  the 
1970s.  India's  credibility  as  a  regional  power  was  increased — and 
Nepal's  vulnerability  was  reinforced — by  the  1971  Indo-Soviet 
Treaty  of  Peace,  Friendship,  and  Cooperation;  the  1971  Indo- 
Pakistani  War,  which  led  to  the  emergence  of  an  independent 
Bangladesh;  the  absorption  of  Sikkim  into  India  in  1974;  increased 
unofficial  support  of  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  leadership  in  India; 
rebellions  fomented  by  pro-Beijing  Naxalite  elements  in  1973-74 
in  West  Bengal  State  bordering  Nepal;  and  India's  nuclear  explo- 
sion in  1974.  Nepal  adopted  a  cautious  policy  of  appeasement  of 
India,  and  in  his  1975  coronation  address  King  Birendra  called 
for  the  recognition  of  Nepal  as  a  zone  of  peace  where  military  com- 
petition would  be  off-limits.  India  showed  some  flexibility  in  placat- 
ing Nepal  by  distancing,  if  not  disassociating,  itself  from  the 
Nepalese  opposition  forces  based  in  India,  agreeing  to  a  favorable 
trade  and  transit  arrangement  in  1978,  and  entering  into  another 
agreement  on  joint  industrial  ventures  between  Indian  and  Nepa- 
lese firms.  The  latter  agreement,  by  opening  the  possibilities  of  In- 
dia's investment,  indirectly  furthered  India's  domination  of  Nepal's 
economy.  India  also  continued  to  maintain  a  high  level  of  economic 
assistance  to  Nepal. 

In  the  mid-1970s,  Nepal  pressed  for  substantial  amendments  to 
the  1971  trade  and  transit  treaty,  which  was  due  to  expire  in  1976. 
India  ultimately  backed  down  from  its  initial  position  to  terminate 
the  1971  treaty  even  before  a  new  treaty  could  be  negotiated.  The 
1978  agreements  incorporated  Nepal's  demand  for  separate  treaties 
for  trade  and  transit.  The  relationship  between  the  two  nations  im- 
proved over  the  next  decade,  but  not  steadily. 


181 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

India  continued  to  support  the  Nepalese  opposition  and  refused 
to  endorse  Nepal  as  a  zone  of  peace.  In  1987  India  urged  expul- 
sion of  Nepalese  settlers  from  neighboring  Indian  states,  and  Nepal 
retaliated  by  introducing  a  work  permit  system  for  Indians  work- 
ing in  Nepal.  That  same  year,  the  two  countries  signed  an  agree- 
ment setting  up  a  joint  commission  to  increase  economic  cooperation 
in  trade  and  transit,  industry,  and  water  resources. 

Relations  between  the  two  countries  sank  to  a  low  point  in  1988 
when  Kathmandu  signed  an  agreement  with  Beijing  to  purchase 
weapons  soon  after  a  report  that  China  had  won  a  contract  for  con- 
structing a  road  in  the  western  sector  to  connect  China  with  Nepal 
(see  China,  ch.  5).  India  perceived  these  developments  as  deliber- 
ately jeopardizing  its  security.  India  also  was  annoyed  with  the  high 
volume  of  unauthorized  trade  across  the  Nepalese  border,  the  is- 
suance of  work  permits  to  the  estimated  150,000  Indians  residing 
in  Nepal,  and  the  imposition  of  a  55  percent  tariff  on  Indian  goods 
entering  Nepal. 

In  retaliation  for  these  developments,  India  put  Nepal  under  a 
virtual  trade  siege.  In  March  1989,  upon  the  expiration  of  the  1978 
treaties  on  trade  and  transit  rights,  India  insisted  on  negotiating 
a  single  unified  treaty  in  addition  to  an  agreement  on  unautho- 
rized trade,  which  Nepal  saw  as  a  flagrant  attempt  to  strangle  its 
economy.  On  March  23,  1989,  India  declared  that  both  treaties 
had  expired  and  closed  all  but  two  border  entry  points. 

The  economic  consequences  of  the  trade  and  transit  deadlock 
were  enormous.  Shortages  of  Indian  imports  such  as  fuel,  salt,  cook- 
ing oil,  food,  and  other  essential  commodities  soon  occurred.  The 
lucrative  tourist  industry  went  into  recession.  Nepal  also  claimed 
that  the  blockade  caused  ecological  havoc  since  people  were  com- 
pelled to  use  already  dwindling  forest  resources  for  energy  in  lieu 
of  gasoline  and  kerosene,  which  came  mostly  via  India  (see  Ener- 
gy, ch.  3).  To  withstand  the  renewed  Indian  pressure,  Nepal  under- 
took a  major  diplomatic  initiative  to  present  its  case  on  trade  and 
transit  matters  to  the  world  community. 

The  relationship  with  India  was  further  strained  in  1989  when 
Nepal  decoupled  its  rupee  (see  Glossary)  from  the  Indian  rupee, 
which  previously  had  circulated  freely  in  Nepal.  India  retaliated 
by  denying  port  facilities  in  Calcutta  to  Nepal,  thereby  prevent- 
ing delivery  of  oil  supplies  from  Singapore  and  other  sources. 

A  swift  turn  in  relations  followed  the  success  of  the  Movement 
for  the  Restoration  of  Democracy  in  early  1990.  In  June  1990,  a 
joint  Kathmandu-New  Delhi  communique  was  issued  pending  the 
fmalization  of  a  comprehensive  arrangement  covering  all  aspects 
of  bilateral  relations,  restoring  trade  relations,  reopening  transit 


182 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


routes  for  Nepal's  imports,  and  formalizing  respect  of  each  other's 
security  concerns.  Essentially,  the  communique  announced  the 
restoration  of  the  status  quo  ante  and  the  reopening  of  all  border 
points,  and  Nepal  agreed  to  various  concessions  regarding  India's 
commercial  privileges.  Kathmandu  also  announced  that  lower  cost 
was  the  decisive  factor  in  its  purchasing  arms  and  personnel  carri- 
ers from  China  and  that  Nepal  was  advising  China  to  withhold 
delivery  of  the  last  shipment.  The  communique  declared  that  Kath- 
mandu and  New  Delhi  would  cooperate  in  industrial  development, 
in  harnessing  the  waters  of  their  common  rivers  for  mutual  benefit, 
and  in  protecting  and  managing  the  environment. 

Relations  with  Other  South  Asian  Nations 

Pakistan  and  Bangladesh 

Nepal's  relations  with  other  South  Asian  nations  were  dominated 
by  the  search  for  alternate  transit  facilities  and  a  reduction  of  In- 
dia's influence.  Nepal  tried  to  stay  clear  of  Indo-Pakistani  rivalry, 
inasmuch  as  Nepal  had  a  only  minor  role  in  the  Kashmir  dispute 
and  had  no  involvement  in  several  United  States-sponsored  secu- 
rity arrangements  in  the  region  in  the  early  1950s. 

Nepal  and  Pakistan  signed  the  protocol  for  establishing  full  diplo- 
matic relations  in  1962  and  exchanged  ambassadors  in  1963.  Two 
agreements  between  Kathmandu  and  Karachi  (then  Pakistan's  cap- 
ital) were  signed  in  October  1962,  calling  for  reciprocal  most- 
favored-nation  treatment.  A  January  1963  agreement  provided 
Nepal  with  free  trade  and  transit  facilities  through  the  port  of  Chit- 
tagong,  East  Pakistan  (present-day  Bangladesh).  This  arrangement 
somewhat  reduced  Nepal's  dependence  on  India  for  import 
privileges,  particularly  after  the  establishment  of  an  air  link  with 
East  Pakistan  later  in  the  year.  This  endeavor  to  secure  another 
transit  route  through  East  Pakistan  had  at  best  only  limited  potential 
because  of  the  intervening  Indian  territory. 

Nepal  initially  adopted  a  neutral  posture  during  the  Indo-Pakistan 
war  of  1971  but  immediately  recognized  the  newly  independent 
nation  of  Bangladesh  on  January  16,  1972.  Two  days  after  diplo- 
matic relations  were  established  with  Dhaka,  Islamabad  broke  off 
diplomatic  relations  with  Kathmandu. 

Nepal's  focus  shifted  to  Bangladesh  as  a  permanent  and  much 
desired  gateway  to  the  sea.  Bangladesh,  friendly  to  India  and  close 
to  Nepal's  southern  border,  opened  new  potential  for  both  trade 
and  transit  facilities. 

Nepal's  relations  with  Bangladesh  improved  when  an  anti-Indian 
faction  seized  power  in  Dhaka  in  August  1975.  The  turning  point 


183 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

in  Nepal-Bangladesh  relations,  however,  occurred  in  April  1976 
when  the  two  countries  signed  four  agreements  relating  to  trade, 
transit,  civil  aviation,  and  technical  cooperation.  They  also  jointly 
issued  a  communique  on  maintaining  close  cooperation  in  the  fields 
of  power  generation  and  the  development  of  water  resources.  The 
transit  agreement  exempted  all  traffic-in-transit  from  transit  duties 
or  other  charges.  Six  points  of  entry  and  exit  for  the  movement 
of  Nepalese  traffic-in-transit  through  Bangladesh's  ports  and  ter- 
ritory were  designated.  This  transit  agreement  came  at  a  crucial 
time — during  Nepal's  conclusion  of  a  trade  and  transit  agreement 
with  a  reluctant  India.  In  1986  Nepal  was  also  gratified  when  Ban- 
gladesh wanted  to  involve  Nepal  in  the  issue  of  distribution  and 
utilization  of  water  from  the  Ganges  River. 

Bhutan 

Nepal  has  shown  interest  in  developing  a  mutually  advantageous 
relationship  with  Bhutan,  but  substantial  problems  have  persist- 
ed. Through  its  own  treaty  with  India,  signed  in  1949,  Bhutan  had 
generally  followed  New  Delhi's  guidance  in  foreign  policy  matters. 
Bhutan  had  serious  reservations  over  joining  in  regional  and  in- 
ternational organizational  politics  bearing  Nepal's  initiatives  and 
had  ignored  the  concept  of  a  Himalayan  federation.  Another  poten- 
tial source  of  dissension  in  Nepalese-Bhutanese  relations  was  the 
presence  of  a  large  Nepalese  community  in  southern  Bhutan.  In 
the  early  1990s,  the  large  Nepalese  population  emerged  as  a  poten- 
tially divisive  issue  between  the  two  countries.  In  spite  of  these 
difficulties,  Kathmandu  maintained  nonresident  diplomatic  rela- 
tions with  Thimpu  (see  Foreign  Relations,  ch.  6). 

Sri  Lanka  and  Maldives 

As  of  mid- 1991 ,  Nepal  had  not  cultivated  bilateral  relations  with 
Sri  Lanka  or  Maldives.  Nevertheless,  following  a  visit  to  Nepal 
by  the  Maldives  president  in  May  1981,  a  cultural  exchange  and 
economic  cooperation  agreement  was  signed.  The  agreement, 
however,  has  remained  dormant. 

Nepal  was  interested  in  Sri  Lanka's  Tamil  separatist  movement 
because  of  its  own  potential  problems  with  ethnic  diversity.  In  line 
with  its  policy  of  deploring  the  violation  of  the  territorial  integrity 
of  sovereign  states,  Nepal  also  expressed  concern  at  India's  mili- 
tary involvement  in  Sri  Lanka  during  the  1980s.  Nepal  welcomed 
the  conclusion  of  the  Indo-Sri  Lankan  Accord  of  July  29,  1987. 

Relations  with  China 

The  keystone  of  Nepal's  China  policy  was  maintaining  equal 


184 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


friendships  with  China  and  India  while  simultaneously  seeking  to 
decrease  India's  influence  in  Nepal  and  Nepal's  dependence  on 
India.  Further,  Kathmandu  felt  that  the  competition  between  its 
two  giant  neighbors — China  and  India — would  benefit  its  own  eco- 
nomic development. 

The  first  recorded  official  relations  with  China  and  Tibet  occurred 
near  the  middle  of  the  seventh  century.  By  the  eighteenth  century, 
Nepalese  adventurism  in  Tibet  led  to  Chinese  intervention  in  favor 
of  Tibet.  The  resultant  Sino-Nepalese  Treaty  of  1792  provided  for 
tribute-bearing  missions  from  Nepal  to  China  every  five  years  as 
a  symbol  of  Chinese  political  and  cultural  supremacy  in  the  region 
(see  The  Making  of  Modern  Nepal,  ch.  1). 

In  the  Anglo-Nepalese  War  of  1814-16,  China  refused  Nepal's 
requests  for  military  assistance  and,  by  default,  surrendered  its 
dominant  position  in  Nepal  to  the  growing  British  influence. 
However,  it  appeared  to  be  expedient  for  Nepal  to  retain  the  fic- 
tion of  a  tributary  relationship  with  China  in  order  to  balance  China 
against  Britain. 

Nepal  invaded  Tibet  in  1854.  Hostilities  were  quickly  terminated 
when  China  intervened,  and  the  Treaty  of  Thapathali  was  con- 
cluded in  March  1856.  The  treaty  recognized  the  special  status  of 
China,  and  Nepal  agreed  to  assist  Tibet  in  the  event  of  foreign 
aggression. 

Relations  between  Nepal  and  China  and  Tibet  continued  without 
critical  incident  until  1904,  when  British  India  sent  an  armed  ex- 
pedition to  Tibet  and  Nepal  rejected  Tibet's  request  for  aid  to  avoid 
risking  its  good  relations  with  Britain.  Beginning  in  1908,  Nepal 
stopped  paying  tribute  to  China. 

By  1910,  apprehensive  of  British  activity  in  Tibet,  China  had 
reasserted  its  claim  to  sovereign  rights  in  Tibet  and  feudatory  mis- 
sions from  Nepal.  In  1912  Nepal  warned  the  Chinese  representa- 
tive at  Lhasa  that  Nepal  would  help  Tibet  attain  independent  status 
as  long  as  it  was  consistent  with  British  interests.  Nepal  broke  re- 
lations with  China  when  the  Tibetans,  taking  advantage  of  the 
Chinese  revolution  of  1911,  drove  the  Chinese  out. 

When  the  Chinese  communists  invaded  Tibet  in  1950,  Nepal's 
relations  with  China  began  to  undergo  drastic  changes.  Although 
annual  Tibetan  tribute  missions  appeared  regularly  in  Nepal  as 
late  as  1953,  Beijing  had  started  to  ignore  the  provisions  of  the  1856 
treaty  by  curtailing  the  privileges  and  rights  it  accorded  to  Nepa- 
lese traders,  by  imposing  restrictions  on  Nepalese  pilgrims,  and 
by  stopping  the  Tibetan  tributary  missions. 

The  break  between  Kathmandu  and  Beijing  continued  until  1955 
when  relations  were  reestablished  with  China.  The  two  countries 


185 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

established  resident  ambassadors  in  their  respective  capitals  in  July 
1960. 

In  1956  the  Treaty  of  Thapathali  was  replaced  by  a  new  treaty 
under  which  Nepal  recognized  China's  sovereignty  over  Tibet  and 
agreed  to  surrender  all  privileges  and  rights  granted  by  the  old 
treaty.  In  1962  Nepal  withdrew  its  ambassador  from  Tibet  and  sub- 
stituted a  consul  general.  An  agreement  on  locating  and  demar- 
cating the  Nepal-Tibet  boundary  was  signed  in  March  1960.  Within 
a  month,  another  Treaty  of  Peace  and  Friendship  was  signed  in 
Kathmandu. 

The  Sino-Nepal  Boundary  Treaty  was  signed  in  Beijing  in  Oc- 
tober 1961.  The  treaty  provided  for  a  Sino-Nepal  Joint  Commis- 
sion to  agree  on  questions  regarding  alignment,  location,  and 
maintenance  of  the  seventy-nine  demarcation  markers.  The  com- 
mission's findings  were  attached  to  the  original  treaty  in  a  pro- 
tocol signed  in  January  1963. 

During  the  Sino-Indian  conflict  of  1962,  Nepal  reasserted  its  neu- 
trality and  warned  that  it  would  not  submit  to  aggression  from  any 
state.  Although  the  warning  was  directed  at  China,  Nepal  continued 
to  support  China's  application  for  membership  in  the  United  Na- 
tions. A  potential  source  of  irritation  in  Sino-Nepalese  relations 
was  relieved  in  January  1964  when  China  agreed  to  release  the 
frozen  funds  of  Nepalese  traders  from  Tibetan  banks. 

An  agreement  to  construct  an  all-weather  highway  linking  Kath- 
mandu with  Tibet  was  signed  in  October  1961 — a  time  when  neither 
Kathmandu  nor  Beijing  had  cordial  relations  with  New  Delhi.  The 
Kathmandu-Kodari  road  opened  in  May  1967  but  did  not  yield 
any  commercial  or  trade  benefits  for  Nepal.  Because  of  the  severe 
restrictions  imposed  by  Beijing  even  before  the  road  was  opened, 
Kathmandu  had  closed  its  trade  agencies  in  Tibet  by  January  1966. 
Although  the  highway  had  no  economic  or  commercial  value  and 
was  not  viable  as  an  alternate  transit  route,  it  was  of  strategic  mili- 
tary importance  to  China.  The  highway  established  direct  links  be- 
tween two  major  Chinese  army  bases  within  100  kilometers  of 
Kathmandu  to  forward  bases  at  Gyirong  in  Tibet. 

Throughout  the  latter  half  of  the  1960s,  Nepal's  relations  with 
China  remained  fairly  steady.  One  exception  was  the  belligerent 
activities  of  the  Chinese  officials  in  Nepal  who  eulogized  and  ex- 
tolled the  successes  of  the  Cultural  Revolution  (1966-76)  during 
the  summer  of  1967. 

The  emergence  of  a  strident  and  confident  India  in  the  early  1970s 
introduced  some  new  dimensions  in  Nepal's  China  policy.  King 
Birendra  did  not  abandon  the  policy  of  equal  friendship  between 
China  and  India  but  wanted  to  woo  China  to  counter  India's 


186 


United  States  Agency  for  International  Development  mission,  located  in  the 
Rabi  Bhavan  complex,  an  old  Rana  palace  in  Kalimati  Durbar,  Kathmandu 

Courtesy  John  N.  Gunning 

growing  influence  in  the  region.  China  had  implicitly  recognized 
India's  predominance  in  the  region,  however,  and  was  willing  to 
oblige  Nepal  only  to  the  extent  of  pledging  support  in  safeguard- 
ing its  national  independence  and  preventing  foreign  interference. 

In  an  open  challenge  to  India's  primacy  in  Nepal,  Nepal  negoti- 
ated a  deal  for  the  purchase  of  Chinese  weapons  in  mid- 1988.  Ac- 
cording to  India,  this  deal  contravened  an  earlier  agreement  that 
obliged  Nepal  to  secure  all  defense  supplies  from  India. 

Nepal's  overtures  to  China  also  had  economic  implications.  Ever 
since  an  economic  aid  agreement  between  China  and  Nepal  had 
been  concluded  in  1956,  China's  steadily  increasing  economic  and 
technical  assistance  was  being  used  to  build  up  Nepal's  industrial 
infrastructure  and  implement  economic  planning.  According  to  a 
1990  report,  an  estimated  750  Chinese  workers  were  in  Nepal,  most 
of  them  working  on  road-building  crews  and  small-scale  develop- 
ment projects.  The  foreign  trade  balance  also  was  in  Nepal's  favor. 
China  reportedly  has  ceded  some  territory  to  Nepal  to  facilitate 
boundary  demarcation  and  has  endorsed  Nepal  as  a  zone  of  peace. 

Relations  with  the  United  States 

Nepal's  relations  with  the  United  States  were  cordial.  Diplomatic 


187 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

relations  at  the  legation  level  were  established  in  1947.  Commer- 
cial relations  were  conducted  according  to  the  most-  favored-nation 
status.  In  August  1951,  the  two  governments  agreed  to  raise  the 
status  of  their  respective  diplomatic  representations  to  the  rank  of 
ambassador.  It  was  not  until  August  1959,  however,  that  each  coun- 
try established  a  resident  embassy  in  each  other's  capital.  The  first 
agreement  for  United  States  economic  assistance  was  signed  in 
January  1951.  By  1990  the  United  States  commitment  totaled  ap- 
proximately US$475  million. 

In  the  late  1980s,  United  States  economic  assistance  channeled 
through  the  Agency  for  International  Development  averaged  US$15 
million  annually.  The  United  States  also  contributed  to  Nepal's 
development  through  various  multilateral  institutions,  business- 
es, and  private  voluntary  organizations  such  as  CARE,  Save  the 
Children  Federation,  United  Mission  to  Nepal,  Seventh  Day  Ad- 
ventists,  the  Coca-Cola  Corporation,  and  Morrison  Knudsen  Cor- 
poration. Much  of  Washington's  economic  assistance  has  been  in 
the  fields  of  health  and  family  planning,  environmental  protection, 
and  rural  development.  Projects  have  included  geological  surveys, 
road  construction,  agricultural  development,  and  educational  pro- 
grams. The  Peace  Corps  began  operating  in  1962  in  Nepal,  and 
in  1991  it  was  the  only  such  program  still  operational  in  South  Asia. 
The  Peace  Corps  concentrated  on  agricultural,  health,  education, 
and  rural  development  programs. 

United  States  policy  toward  Nepal  supported  three  objectives — 
peace  and  stability  in  South  Asia,  Nepal's  independence  and  ter- 
ritorial integrity,  and  selected  programs  of  economic  and  techni- 
cal assistance  to  assist  development.  At  the  beginning  of  the  Cold 
War,  the  United  States  also  had  a  significant  strategic  interest  in 
the  country  because  Nepal  was  an  outpost  and  a  portal  into  China. 

Although  Kathmandu's  primary  interest  in  relations  with 
Washington  was  for  economic  and  technical  assistance,  Nepal  also 
sought  global  support  for  its  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity. 
While  on  a  state  visit  to  the  United  States  in  December  1983,  King 
Birendra  received  President  Ronald  Reagan's  endorsement  of  Nepal 
as  a  zone  of  peace. 

During  Nepal's  prodemocracy  movement,  the  United  States 
Department  of  State  voiced  concern  at  the  violent  turn  of  events 
in  February  1990  and  urged  the  government  to  start  a  dialogue 
with  the  democratic  forces  in  order  to  stop  violence  and  repres- 
sion. Congressman  Stephen  Solarz,  Chairman  of  the  House  of 
Representatives  Foreign  Affairs  Subcommittee  on  Asia  and  the  Pa- 
cific, and  his  colleagues  twice  visited  Nepal  and  met  with  the  king 
and  a  wide  range  of  political  leaders  undoubtedly  to  discuss  events 


188 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


relating  to  the  prodemocracy  movement.  The  United  States-based 
Asia  Watch  human  rights  monitoring  group  published  a  detailed 
account  of  torture,  repression,  and  inhumane  treatment  meted  out 
to  the  detainees. 

Relations  with  Britain 

Nepalese-British  relations  spanned  more  than  two  centuries  and 
generally  were  friendly  and  mutually  rewarding  (see  From  the 
Anglo-Nepalese  War  to  World  War  II,  ch.  5).  Since  the  Treaty 
of  Sagauli  of  1816,  when  Britain  began  recruiting  Gurkha  troops, 
the  British  have  had  continuous  official  representation  in  Kath- 
mandu.  In  1855  a  convention  required  the  Rana  prime  ministers 
to  seek  unofficial  British  confirmation  before  assuming  the  powers 
of  their  office.  The  Ranas  offered  military  assistance  to  the  British 
during  the  Second  Sikh  War  (1848-49),  the  Sepoy  Rebellion  of 
1857,  World  War  I  (1914-18),  and  World  War  II  (1939-45).  Dur- 
ing the  Rana  period,  Nepal  recognized  Britain's  leadership  in  for- 
eign relations  through  numerous  treaties  and  agreements.  The 
Treaty  of  Sagauli  was  superseded  in  1923  by  the  Treaty  of  Per- 
petual Peace  and  Friendship,  which  reconfirmed  Nepal's  indepen- 
dent status  and  remained  virtually  unchanged  until  Britain's 
paramountcy  over  India  ended  in  1947  and  India  inherited  Brit- 
ain's historic  interest  in  Nepal.  Britain  endorsed  Nepal  as  a  zone 
of  peace  in  1980. 

A  minor  irritant  in  the  steady  relationship  between  Kathman- 
du  and  London  was  Britain's  policy,  begun  in  the  late  1980s,  of 
gradually  phasing  out  its  employment  of  Gurkha  soldiers.  Remit- 
tances from  the  Gurkhas  based  in  Britain  and  Hong  Kong  served 
as  a  stable  source  of  foreign  exchange  earnings  for  Nepal.  The  dis- 
missal in  1988  of  more  than  100  Gurkha  soldiers  based  in  Hong 
Kong  caused  such  a  furor  in  Nepal  that  the  British  minister  of  state 
for  army  supply  visited  Kathmandu.  The  minister  stated  that  the 
incident  was  atypical  and  that  the  5,000  Gurkhas  stationed  in  Hong 
Kong  would  be  maintained  and  assigned  to  Britain,  Brunei,  and 
elsewhere  after  1997  when  Hong  Kong  reverted  to  China.  Britain 
announced  in  1989,  however,  that  the  strength  of  the  British  Brigade 
of  Gurkhas  would  be  cut  by  50  percent. 

Relations  with  the  Soviet  Union 

Relations  between  Nepal  and  the  Soviet  Union  were  cordial  and 
cooperative.  Diplomatic  relations  were  established  in  1956.  In  1959 
embassies  were  opened  in  Kathmandu  and  Moscow.  A  Soviet  eco- 
nomic assistance  program  that  concentrated  on  the  industrial, 
health,  and  transportation  sectors  began  shortly  thereafter.  The 


189 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

gross  impact  of  Soviet  aid,  however,  was  inconsequential,  and  by 
1990  it  had  trickled  down  only  to  limited  training  and  technical 
assistance. 

In  support  of  India,  the  Soviet  Union  has  resisted  Nepal's  repeat- 
ed overtures  to  endorse  it  as  a  zone  of  peace.  During  a  1987  visit 
to  Kathmandu,  however,  the  Soviet  deputy  minister  of  foreign  af- 
fairs stated  that  Moscow  respected  Nepal's  constitution,  in  which 
the  zone  of  peace  concept  was  entrenched  as  a  foreign  policy  goal. 

Relations  with  Other  Countries 

Nepal  has  continually  sought  to  establish  good  relations  and  an 
identity  with  the  world  community.  However,  because  most  coun- 
tries recognized  the  primacy  of  India's  leadership  in  the  region, 
Nepal's  continued  efforts  to  expand  its  international  activities,  were 
of  little  use  in  solving  its  problems  with  India. 

Nepal's  contacts  with  the  oil-rich  Arab  countries  had  increased 
in  the  late  1980s.  A  number  of  Nepalese  citizens  worked  in  several 
Middle  Eastern  countries,  particularly  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
and  Kuwait,  and  remittances  from  Nepalese  nationals  were  a  source 
of  hard  currency.  Nepal  was  one  of  the  first  South  Asian  countries 
to  condemn  Iraq's  aggression  and  takeover  of  Kuwait  in  August 
1990.  Kuwait  also  was  an  important  source  of  development  aid 
to  Nepal. 

Of  the  West  European  countries,  the  Federal  Republic  of  Ger- 
many (West  Germany)  was  Nepal's  largest  donor  and,  through 
1986,  provided  more  than  Rs5.6  billion  in  economic  and  techni- 
cal assistance  for  more  than  forty  different  projects  ranging  from 
health  programs  to  hydroelectricity.  France  also  had  a  role  in  as- 
sisting economic  development.  During  the  1990  prodemocracy 
movement,  France  expressed  its  readiness  to  write  off  all  its  loans 
to  Nepal,  amounting  to  US$25  million,  as  a  gesture  of  goodwill. 
The  Swiss  government  also  indicated  its  support  of  the  movement 
and  that  it  would  probably  increase  its  aid. 

Nepal  also  sought  to  improve  its  international  status  by  emphasiz- 
ing its  religious  connections.  In  1983  Nepal  enlisted  its  support  for 
the  International  Lumbini  Development  Project  to  present  Lum- 
bini,  the  birth  place  of  Siddhartha  Gautama,  the  Buddha,  as  a  sym- 
bol of  peace.  Nepal  continued  to  highlight  its  role  as  the  only  Hindu 
kingdom  in  the  world  (as  stipulated  in  the  constitution)  by  period- 
ically convening  the  World  Hindu  Meet.  Nepal  also  hosted  meet- 
ings of  The  World  Fellowship  of  Buddhists  in  Kathmandu. 

International  and  Regional  Organizations 

Since  the  early  1950s,  Nepal  has  pursued  a  calculated  nonaligned 


190 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


policy  and  has  become  an  active  participant  in  international  or- 
ganizations. Nepal  was  admitted  to  the  UN  in  1955.  Prior  to  its 
admission,  Nepal  already  was  a  member  of  several  specialized  UN 
agencies,  such  as  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  (1951); 
the  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific,  and  Cultural  Organi- 
zation (1952);  the  World  Health  Organization  (1953);  and  the  Eco- 
nomic Council  for  Asia  and  the  Far  East  (1954).  Kathmandu  often 
voted  with  the  nonaligned  group  at  the  UN.  In  1961  Nepal  be- 
came a  member  of  the  World  Bank  and  the  International  Mone- 
tary Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary).  Nepal  also  was  a  member  of  the 
Universal  Postal  Union,  the  International  Civil  Aviation  Organi- 
zation, the  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross,  and  a  host 
of  other  international  organizations. 

As  a  member  of  the  Group  of  77,  Nepal  was  a  vociferous  cham- 
pion for  a  new  international  economic  order  for  the  equitable  dis- 
tribution of  resources  and  services  between  the  developed  countries 
and  the  developing  world.  In  1977  Nepal  motivated  its  major  for- 
eign aid  donors  to  form  an  aid-Nepal  consortium  to  improve  Nepal's 
ability  to  coordinate  aid  projects  (see  Foreign  Aid,  ch.  3). 

Kathmandu  tended  to  use  its  membership  in  international  or- 
ganizations as  a  forum  to  articulate  its  difficulties  with  New  Del- 
hi. For  example,  Nepal's  position  on  the  trade  and  transit  disputes 
was  aired  at  IMF  and  World  Bank  meetings.  Nevertheless,  most 
of  the  time  Nepal  voted  with  India  in  the  UN.  In  1987  Nepal  en- 
hanced its  image  in  the  UN  when  the  General  Assembly  decided 
to  establish  a  Regional  Center  for  Peace  and  Disarmament  in  South 
Asia  headquartered  at  Kathmandu.  In  June  1988,  for  the  second 
time  in  twenty  years,  Nepal  was  elected  to  a  two-year  term  as  a 
nonpermanent  member  of  the  UN  Security  Council.  At  the  request 
of  the  UN  secretary  general,  Nepal  sent  observers  and  troops  to 
supervise  the  Soviet  troop  withdrawal  from  Afghanistan. 

Nepal  also  participated  in  various  other  forums  for  less-developed 
nations.  In  February  1985,  Nepal  hosted  the  twenty-fourth  session 
of  the  Asian- African  Legal  Consultative  Committee.  Nepal  par- 
ticipated in  the  thirtieth  anniversary  commemoration  of  the  Asian- 
African  Conference  in  Bandung,  Indonesia,  in  1985  and  the  ex- 
traordinary meeting  of  the  Coordinating  Bureau  of  the  Nonaligned 
Countries  on  Namibia  in  New  Delhi,  at  which  it  reiterated  its  sup- 
port for  the  Namibian  people. 

In  all  the  nonaligned  summits  held  since  1961 ,  the  Nepalese  dele- 
gation has  been  led  by  the  king.  In  these  summits,  Nepal  relent- 
lessly has  pleaded  for  the  acceptance  of  peaceful  coexistence  and 
the  right  to  remain  free  from  military  involvement. 


191 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Nepal  scored  a  diplomatic  victory  in  1986  when,  by  unanimous 
decision,  Kathmandu  was  chosen  as  the  venue  for  the  permanent 
secretariat  of  SAARC.  In  1987  Nepal  organized  the  first  regional 
summit  of  SAARC  in  Kathmandu  in  which  King  Birendra 
reaffirmed  a  commitment  to  peace,  stability,  and  regional  cooper- 
ation. The  success  of  this  meeting  and  the  conclusion  of  agreements 
to  establish  a  SAARC  food  security  reserve  and  to  suppress  ter- 
rorism enhanced  Nepal's  prestige.  Although  bilateral  issues  were 
not  allowed  to  be  raised  in  SAARC  meetings,  Nepal  used  the  fo- 
rum to  parley  with  the  smaller  states  of  the  region  on  the  basis  of 
a  commonality  of  fear  of  Indian  preeminence. 

*    *  * 

Scholarship  on  contemporary  political  developments  in  Nepal 
is  limited.  Although  outdated,  Leo  E.  Rose  and  John  T.  Scholz's 
Nepal:  Profile  of  a  Himalayan  Kingdom;  Leo  E.  Rose  and  Margaret 
W.  Fisher's  The  Politics  of  Nepal;  Frederick  H.  Gaige's  Regionalism 
and  National  Unity  in  Nepal;  and  Rishikesh  Shaha's  Nepali  Politics 
remain  outstanding  contributions  on  the  subject.  On  recent  polit- 
ical developments  in  Nepal,  Rishikesh  Shaha's  Politics  in  Nepal, 
1980-1990  is  an  eminently  readable  account.  The  chapter  on  Nepal 
in  Craig  Baxter  et  al.  's  Government  and  Politics  in  South  Asia  is  useful 
in  providing  a  regional  perspective.  Roop  Singh  Baraith's  Transit 
Politics  in  South  Asia  and  Parmanand's  The  Nepali  Congress  since  Its 
Inception  are  useful  collateral  works.  The  Hoover  Institution's  Year- 
book on  International  Communist  Affairs  covers  activities  of  the  Nepa- 
lese  communists. 

The  complete  text  with  amendments  of  the  Nepali  constitutions 
can  be  found  in  Albert  P.  Blaustein  and  Gisbert  H.  Flanz's  Consti- 
tutions of  the  Countries  of  the  World.  Although  Nepal's  administrative 
structure  is  in  transition,  Hem  Narayan  Agrawal's  The  Adminis- 
trative System  of  Nepal  and  Rishikesh  Shaha's  Essays  in  the  Practice  of 
Government  in  Nepal  are  basic  resources.  On  human  rights  issues, 
Amnesty  International's  Annual  Report  and  special  reports  as  well 
as  Asia  Watch's  special  reports  on  Nepal  are  extremely  useful. 

There  is  no  comprehensive  up-to-date  work  on  Nepal's  inter- 
national relations  and  foreign  policy.  Leo  E.  Rose's  Nepal:  Strategy 
for  Survival  and  S.D.  Muni's  Foreign  Policy  of  Nepal  are  notable  works. 
Of  the  several  works  on  bilateral  relations,  the  following  are  use- 
ful: Ramakant's  Nepal-China  and  India;  Shankar  Kumar  Jha's  Indo- 
Nepal  Relations ;  T.R.  Ghoble's  China- Nepal  Relations  and  India;  and 
Rabindra  K.  Das's  Nepal  and  Its  Neighbors.  For  reportage  on  Nepa- 
lese  politics  and  international  affairs,  weekly  reports  in  the  Far  Eastern 


192 


Nepal:  Government  and  Politics 


Economic  Review  and  its  Asia  Yearbook,  annual  essays  on  Nepal  in 
Asian  Survey,  and  Europa  World  Year  Book  are  good  sources.  More 
detailed  daily  chronicles  can  be  found  in  the  Joint  Publications 
Research  Service's  JPRS  Report:  Near  East  and  South  Asia;  and  the 
Asian  Recorder.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see 
Bibliography.) 


193 


Chapter  5.  Nepal:  National  Security 


World  War  I  vintage  kukri,  the  Gurkha  knife,  with  its  distinctive  notch 
above  the  hilt,  and  two  soldiers 


NEPAL  IS  RENOWNED  for  its  fighting  men,  the  fabled  Gur- 
khas. The  worldwide  reputation  of  Nepalese  soldiers  as  a  superior 
fighting  force  can  be  attributed  mainly  to  the  qualities  of  the  troops 
of  Nepalese  origin  who  have  fought  as  contingents  in  the  British 
Army  since  the  early  nineteenth  century  and  for  the  Indian  Army 
since  its  formation  in  1947.  With  their  long  record  of  martial 
prowess  and  battlefield  heroics,  the  Gurkhas  provide  one  of  the 
more  colorful  chapters  of  modern  military  history. 

The  history  of  the  Royal  Nepal  Army  is  intertwined  with  that 
of  the  Rana  Dynasty  and  its  Shah  predecessors  (see  Rana  Rule, 
ch.  1).  In  the  post- World  War  II  era,  the  army  served  as  a  bastion 
of  support  for  King  Mahendra  Bir  Bikram  Shah  Dev  and  his  heir, 
King  Birendra  Bir  Bikram  Shah  Dev,  Nepal's  reigning  monarch 
in  late  1991.  Many  Nepalese  opponents  of  the  monarchy  com- 
plained that  the  military  was  a  reactionary  institution  bent  on 
defending  a  quasifeudal  system  of  government  in  the  face  of  mount- 
ing popular  calls  for  democratization.  More  conservative  Nepa- 
lese, however,  regarded  a  strong  king  and  a  traditional  military 
beholden  to  royal  patronage  as  essential  elements  of  political  sta- 
bility and  national  independence.  During  the  1990  Movement  for 
the  Restoration  of  Democracy,  or  prodemocracy  movement,  which 
transformed  Nepal's  political  system  into  a  broad-based  constitu- 
tional monarchy  with  elected  civilian  leaders,  the  army  was  used 
as  a  stabilizing  force. 

Nepal's  military  establishment  in  1991  consisted  of  an  army  of 
35,000  personnel.  Organized  largely  along  British  lines,  the  force 
included  fourteen  infantry  brigades,  an  airborne  battalion,  an  air 
defense  regiment,  a  small  air  services  wing,  and  a  variety  of  in- 
dependent infantry  companies  and  supporting  units.  Service  in  the 
army,  an  all- volunteer  force,  generally  was  held  in  high  esteem  by 
the  general  public;  benefits  and  terms  of  service  were  attractive 
by  local  standards.  Although  its  soldiers  generally  were  well  trained 
and  highly  motivated,  Nepal  lacked  the  resources  to  equip  its  army 
with  anything  beyond  obsolete  imported  weapons.  The  officer  corps 
had  no  political  ambitions  and  invariably  carried  out  the  orders 
of  the  king  and  civilian  authorities. 

Although  the  military's  stated  mission  was  the  classic  one  of 
defending  the  nation  against  hostile  external  attack,  internal 
security — assisting  the  police,  patrolling  remote  areas,  and  protect- 
ing the  monarchy — constituted  the  military's  primary  mission.  The 


197 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

country's  precarious  geopolitical  position  between  two  giant  neigh- 
bors, India  and  China,  made  anything  more  than  a  token  conven- 
tional defense  impractical.  In  order  to  ensure  the  country's  survival, 
Nepalese  leaders  have  traditionally  sought  to  maintain  good  rela- 
tions with  both  neighbors  and  to  obtain  international  recognition 
of  Nepal's  de  jure  status  as  an  independent  buffer  state.  The  pro- 
tracted trade  and  transit  dispute  that  poisoned  Indo-Nepalese  re- 
lations in  1989,  although  eventually  resolved  amicably  in  1990, 
reinforced  the  common  Nepalese  perception  of  an  overbearing  In- 
dian government  willing  to  use  its  economic  and  military  advan- 
tages to  intimidate  its  small  Himalayan  neighbor.  Most  Nepalese 
regarded  China  as  a  more  distant  but  benign  power  that  served 
as  a  strategic  counterweight  to  India's  supposed  hegemonistic  am- 
bitions in  the  region. 

Under  the  1990  constitution,  control  over  the  nation's  military 
is  vested  in  the  king,  although  the  elected  civilian  government  ac- 
quired new  authority  over  military  affairs  and  national  defense. 
The  28,000-strong  Nepalese  Police  Force,  regarded  by  many  ob- 
servers as  corrupt  and  inefficient,  became  a  focus  of  the  Nepali 
Congress  Party  government  that  came  to  power  in  1991.  The  new 
government  promised  to  reform  the  police  system,  overhaul  the 
judiciary,  and  improve  the  country's  deteriorating  law-and-order 
situation.  The  constitution  instituted  significant  reforms  in  human 
rights  and  judicial  practices,  both  of  which  were  the  objects  of  con- 
siderable domestic  and  foreign  criticism. 

Armed  Forces  and  Society 
Origins  of  the  Legendary  Gurkha 

The  term  Gurkha  (or,  in  Nepali,  Gorkha)  usually  referred  to  sol- 
diers of  Nepalese  origin  who,  over  many  generations,  served  in 
the  legendary  British  Brigade  of  Gurkhas.  Other  regiments  desig- 
nated as  Gurkha  still  served  in  the  Indian  Army  as  of  1991.  As 
it  has  for  more  than  175  years,  Nepal  in  the  early  1990s  served 
as  a  source  of  recruits  for  Indian  and  British  Gurkha  regiments. 
Retired  British  Gurkhas  also  served  in  specially  raised  security  units 
in  Singapore  and  Brunei. 

Soldiers  who  served  in  the  Royal  Nepal  Army  usually  were  not 
called  Gurkhas,  although  they  also  claimed  to  be  the  rightful  heirs 
of  many  of  the  same  martial  traditions  as  their  countrymen  who 
were  recruited  to  serve  in  foreign  armies.  The  designation  had  no 
distinct  ethnic  connotation  but  derived  from  the  name  of  the  old 
kingdom  of  Gorkha  (Gurkha),  the  territory  that  roughly  encompassed 


198 


Nepal:  National  Security 


the  present-day  district  of  Gorkha,  in  the  mountains  some  fifty- 
six  kilometers  west  of  Kathmandu.  Soldiers  from  the  kingdom  of 
Gorkha  established  an  international  reputation  for  their  martial 
qualities  during  the  eighteenth  century  by  their  successful  inva- 
sions of  Tibet.  As  the  Gorkha  kingdom  expanded  eastward  across 
the  Himalayas  to  Sikkim,  the  king's  warriors,  taken  from  all  groups 
in  the  area,  came  to  be  known  as  Gurkha  soldiers.  Legend  had 
it  that  Gurkhas  never  drew  their  service-issued  kukri  (curved  Nepa- 
lese  knives)  without  drawing  blood,  even  if  it  were  their  own. 
Although  probably  a  tradition  of  a  bygone  era,  the  legend  added 
immeasurably  to  the  Gurkhas'  reputation  for  toughness. 

The  exploits  and  legends  surrounding  the  Gurkhas  are  among 
the  more  memorable  of  modern  military  history.  The  old  Gorkha 
kingdom  was  established  in  the  mid-sixteenth  century  by  Dravya 
Shah,  the  founder  of  the  dynasty  of  Shah  Thakuri  kings  that  have 
reigned  in  Nepal  ever  since  (see  The  Expansion  of  Gorkha,  ch. 
1).  Two  centuries  later,  the  Gorkha  kingdom  began  a  major  ex- 
pansion under  the  energetic,  young  King  Prithvi  Narayan  Shah 
(reigned  1743-75),  who  conquered  the  Kathmandu  Valley  and  uni- 
fied numerous  petty  kingdoms  while  consolidating  his  control  over 
an  area  substantially  the  same  as  that  of  modern  Nepal.  The  first 
two  regular  Gurkha  regiments,  designated  Sri  Nath  and  Purano 
Gorakh,  were  raised  in  1763.  As  Gorkha  rule  expanded,  control 
over  the  conquered  territories  was  left  mainly  to  district  governors 
(bada  hakim),  who  were  responsible  for  establishing  military  strong 
points  and  for  maintaining  a  local  militia. 

The  military  prowess  of  the  Nepalese  soldier  first  became  known 
in  the  eighteenth  century,  when  forces  from  what  was  then  known 
as  Gorkha  invaded  Tibet.  Within  Nepal  itself,  certain  ethnic  groups, 
such  as  the  Magar,  Gurung,  Limbu,  Rai,  Chhetri,  and  Thakuri, 
had  much  earlier  won  reputations  as  "warrior  tribes."  The  Magar, 
Gurung,  and  Limbu  furnished  the  bulk  of  the  kingdom's  soldiers 
up  to  the  rank  of  captain.  Higher  ranks  tended  to  be  filled  from 
the  Thakuri,  Chhetri,  and  Rai  groups.  These  officers  came  almost 
exclusively  from  families  of  the  ruling  elite  (see  Caste  and  Ethnicity, 
ch.  2). 

Until  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century,  armies  were  raised 
when  needed  and  disbanded  when  the  need  expired.  This  practice 
created  a  sizable  reserve  of  trained  veterans  but  resulted  in  a  recur- 
ring unemployment  problem.  In  general,  only  members  of  the 
higher  castes  were  retained  in  military  service  between  wars.  The 
first  steps  toward  the  creation  of  a  sizable  permanent  military  es- 
tablishment were  taken  by  Prime  Minister  Bhimsen  Thapa,  who 
governed  from  1804-37  and  who  raised  the  army's  strength  from 


199 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

10,000  to  15,000  persons.  He  also  built  arsenals,  ordnance  work- 
shops, and  cantonments.  The  large  parade  ground  constructed  at 
Tundhikhel  in  Kathmandu  during  that  period  still  was  in  use  as 
of  1991. 

From  the  Anglo-Nepalese  War  to  World  War  II 

Before  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century,  Gorkha  rulers  had  sent 
successful  military  missions  into  Tibet  and  China.  Pressure  to  the 
south  and  west,  however,  met  resistance  from  the  military  forces 
of  the  British  East  India  Company,  which  were  expanding  north 
of  the  Gangetic  Plain  into  the  Tarai  and  the  foothills  of  the 
Himalayas.  Increasingly  frequent  clashes  of  the  opposing  forces 
culminated  in  the  Anglo-Nepalese  War  of  1814-16,  in  which  the 
victorious  British  forces  were  impressed  by  the  fighting  qualities 
of  their  Gorkha  opponents.  When  Nepal's  General  Amar  Singh 
Thapa  was  forced  to  capitulate  west  of  the  Kali  River  in  1815,  the 
remnants  of  his  troops  were  accepted  into  the  service  of  the  British 
East  India  Company.  By  the  1816  Treaty  of  Sagauli,  the  British 
recognized  the  sovereignty  of  Nepal  and  received  permission  to 
recruit  Nepalese  soldiers  (see  The  Making  of  Modern  Nepal,  ch.  1 ; 
Relations  with  Britain,  ch.  4). 

British  recruiting  efforts,  which  actually  began  in  1815,  were  car- 
ried on  semiclandestinely  even  after  the  treaty  came  into  force  be- 
cause all  foreign  military  representatives  were  forbidden  by  Nepalese 
law  to  enter  the  country.  The  three  battalions  formed  from  General 
Thapa' s  conquered  forces  were  expanded  into  regiments,  and  each 
regiment  sent  its  own  Gurkha  recruiters  into  the  interior.  Appli- 
cants for  service  came  almost  entirely  from  the  mountain  areas. 
The  ethnic  groups  represented  included  the  Limbu  and  Rai  from 
the  Kiranti  area  in  the  east,  the  Magar,  Gurung,  and  Tamang  from 
the  center,  and  the  Chhetri  and  Thakuri  castes  from  the  west.  These 
groups,  eventually  lumped  together  under  the  term  Gurkha,  became 
the  backbone  of  British  Indian  forces  along  with  other  supposed 
"martial  races"  such  as  Sikhs,  Dogras,  Punjabis,  and  Pathans. 
Throughout  the  colonial  era,  the  British  raised  the  bulk  of  their 
military  recruits  from  Nepal,  Punjab,  and  the  North- West  Frontier. 

The  Gurkha  reputation  for  martial  prowess  and  obedience  to 
authority  was  firmly  established  during  the  1857-58  Sepoy  Rebel- 
lion, which  seriously  threatened  British  ascendancy  in  South  Asia. 
Some  9,000  Nepalese  troops  under  Prime  Minister  Jang  Bahadur 
Rana,  in  power  from  1846-77,  rendered  valuable  service  to  the 
British  (see  The  Dictatorship  of  Jang  Bahadur,  ch.  1).  Nepalese 
exploits  in  relieving  the  British  resident  in  Lucknow  made  a  lasting 


200 


Xepal:  Xational  Security 


impression  on  British  officials  and  strategists.  Xepalese  troops  were 
awarded  battle  honors,  and  two  additional  regiments  were  raised. 

Recruiting  continued,  and  the  adaptability  of  the  Gurkha  troops 
to  various  types  and  conditions  of  combat  was  demonstrated  by 
their  performance  in  the  Second  Afghan  War  ^1878-80)  and  in  the 
Boxer  Uprising  (1900).  By  1908  the  fabled  Gurkha  brigade  had 
been  formed.  A  flexible  unit,  the  brigade  numbered  about  12.000 
troops  in  peacetime  and  was  organized  in  ten  regiments,  each  con- 
sisting of  two  rifle  battalions.  Other  Gurkha  units  included  the  As- 
sam Rifles.  Burma  Rifles.  Indian  Armed  Police,  and  Burma 
Military  Police.  Regiments  and  battalions  were  designated  numer- 
ically. For  example,  the  Second  Battalion  of  the  Seventh  Gurkha 
Rifles  was  commonlv  referred  to  with  pride  bv  its  members  as  the 
2/7/GR. 

Within  Xepal  itself.  Prime  Minister  Ranoddip  Singh,  who 
governed  from  1877  to  1885.  introduced  a  militia  system  in  the 
early  1880s  by  which  the  army  could  be  rapidly  expanded  on  short 
notice — an  expedient  which  proved  of  great  value  to  future  Brit- 
ish war  efforts. Prime  Minister  Chandra  Shamsher  Rana.  in  pow- 
er from  1901  to  1929.  introduced  many  military  reforms  under  a 
program  to  modernize  government  service.  Among  measures  af- 
fecting the  army  were  the  adoption  of  translated  British  military 
manuals  for  the  use  of  troop  units,  promotion  examinations,  im- 
proved standards  of  efficiency,  reorganization  of  administrative 
processes,  and  payment  of  all  ranks  in  cash,  rather  than  in  land 
tenure  (jagir — see  Glossary)  or  grain,  as  was  formerly  the  practice. 
Despite  these  reforms,  the  officer  corps  above  the  grade  of  captain 
continued  to  be  limited  to  members  of  the  Rana  family  and  to  the 
Thakuri.  Chhetri.  and  Rai  ethnic  groups.  Barracks  remained  in- 
adequate for  accommodating  all  the  men  in  the  twenty-six  battal- 
ions stationed  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley.  Many  soldiers  had  to  seek 
their  own  food  and  lodging  in  towns  and  villages  outside  their  gar- 
risons. 

Until  1914  the  British  recruited  about  1.500  men  per  year  to 
keep  the  twenty  Gurkha  battalions  up  to  strength.  As  a  rule,  men 
from  the  same  ethnic  group  were  assigned  to  the  same  units.  About 
seven  regiments  were  composed  of  Magar.  Tamang.  and  Gurung: 
two  regiments  were  recruited  from  the  Rai  and  Limbu:  and  one 
from  the  Chhetri  and  Thakuri.  In  many  instances,  several  gener- 
ations of  one  family  served  in  the  same  regiment — a  practice  that 
continued  in  the  early  1990s.  The  Magar.  Gurung.  and  Rai.  who 
over  the  years  have  supplied  most  of  the  recruits,  are  most  closely 
associated  with  the  fabled  Gurkhas,  but  the  Limbu.  Chhetri. 
Tamang.  Sunwar.  and  Thakuri  also  were  included  in  the  category. 


201 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

On  a  percentage  basis,  the  Gurung  group  provided  a  higher  propor- 
tion of  its  total  population  for  military  service  than  any  other  group. 

Under  the  British  system,  Gurkha  regimental  representatives  ex- 
amined and  enlisted  recruits  within  Nepal.  From  there  recruits  were 
sent  to  collection  centers  in  northern  India,  primarily  at  Gorakh- 
pur  and  at  Ghum  near  Darjeeling,  for  final  processing  and  assign- 
ment to  units.  The  Nepalese  government  encouraged  recruitment 
through  assurances  that  service  with  British  forces  would  be  regard- 
ed as  service  in  the  Nepalese  army  and  that  special  efforts  would 
be  made  to  provide  employment  for  returning  veterans.  This  policy 
was  based  on  the  view  that  returning  veterans  would  add  to  the 
military  strength  of  Nepal  during  emergencies  (see  Gurkhas  Serv- 
ing Abroad,  this  ch.).  Relatively  high  pay  and  pensions  as  well 
as  the  opportunities  for  advancement  in  noncommissioned  ranks 
also  helped  recruitment  efforts. 

During  World  War  1(1914-18),  the  army  was  expanded  and  six 
new  regiments,  totaling  more  than  20,000  troops — all  volunteers — 
were  sent  to  India,  most  of  them  to  the  North-West  Frontier 
Province,  to  release  British  and  Indian  troops  for  service  overseas. 
Simultaneously,  the  Nepalese  government  agreed  to  maintain 
recruitment  at  a  level  that  both  would  sustain  the  existing  British 
Gurkha  units  and  allow  the  establishment  of  additional  ones.  The 
battalions  were  increased  to  thirty-three  with  the  addition  of  55,000 
new  recruits,  and  Gurkha  units  were  placed  at  the  disposal  of  the 
British  high  command  for  service  on  all  fronts.  Many  volunteers 
were  assigned  to  noncombat  units,  such  as  the  Army  Bearer  Corps 
and  the  labor  battalions,  but  they  also  were  in  combat  in  France, 
Turkey,  Palestine,  and  Mesopotamia.  The  Rana  prime  ministers 
urged  Nepalese  males  to  fight  in  the  war.  Of  the  more  than  200,000 
Nepalese  who  served  in  the  British  Army,  there  were  some  20,000 
Gurkha  casualties. 

Following  the  war,  the  Nepalese  government  requested  that  Brit- 
ain cede  portions  of  the  Tarai  in  recognition  of  Kathmandu's  con- 
tribution to  the  Allied  war  effort.  London  refused,  but  the  Treaty 
of  Perpetual  Peace  and  Friendship,  signed  in  December  1923,  grant- 
ed "unequivocal"  recognition  of  Nepal's  independence.  This  treaty 
formed  the  basis  for  Nepal's  continued  independence  following  the 
British  withdrawal  from  India  in  1947  (see  The  Rana  Oligarchy, 
ch.  1). 

In  1919  at  the  height  of  a  civil  disobedience  campaign  called  by 
the  Indian  National  Congress,  Gurkha  troops  serving  under  Brit- 
ish brigadier  R.E.H.  Dyer  brutally  suppressed  a  pro-independence 
political  gathering  in  a  walled  courtyard  outside  the  Sikh  holy  temple 
in  Amritsar.  Acting  under  Dyer's  orders,  the  Gurkhas  killed  some 


202 


Nepal:  National  Security 


300  persons  and  wounded  approximately  1,200  others.  The  epi- 
sode generally  was  considered  a  watershed  in  the  Indian  indepen- 
dence movement.  The  Indian  public,  however,  held  Dyer  and  the 
British  government  responsible  for  the  massacre  and  did  not  blame 
the  soldiers  who  carried  out  the  order  to  fire  on  unarmed  civilians. 

The  British  call  to  arms  during  World  War  II  (1939-45)  met 
with  an  enthusiastic  response  from  the  Rana  prime  ministers  who 
again  coerced  Nepalese  citizens  into  joining  the  British  Army.  At 
the  outset  of  the  war,  ten  Nepalese  battalions  arrived  in  India,  where 
they  served  until  the  hostilities  ended.  By  the  close  of  1946,  vari- 
ous specialized  units,  such  as  paratroops,  signal  corps,  engineers, 
and  military  police,  had  been  established.  Other  elements  served 
in  Southeast  Asia,  particularly  in  Burma.  The  total  number  of 
Gurkha  battalions  in  the  British  service  increased  to  forty-five.  In 
all,  over  200,000  men  passed  through  ten  Gurkha  training  centers 
to  serve  in  line  units  that  fought  on  almost  every  front,  although 
primarily  in  the  Burmese,  Middle  Eastern,  and  North  African  the- 
aters. Casualties  in  all  theaters  amounted  to  over  25,000  persons. 
Gurkha  unit  histories  are  replete  with  accounts  of  courageous  stands 
in  the  face  of  heavy  odds.  In  the  two  world  wars,  twelve  Victoria 
Crosses  (comparable  to  the  United  States  Medal  of  Honor)  were 
awarded  to  Gurkha  soldiers. 

Arrangements  after  World  War  II 

The  British  ended  their  two-century  rule  over  the  subcontinent 
after  World  War  II  and  agreed  to  an  independent  India,  shorn  of 
its  Muslim-majority  areas  that  had  formed  the  new  nation  of 
Pakistan.  Unlike  most  territories  belonging  to  native  princes,  which 
were  soon  absorbed  into  the  British  successor  states  of  India  and 
Pakistan,  Nepal  and  its  feudal  dynasty  survived  the  British  with- 
drawal intact.  Still  an  independent  entity,  Nepal  thus  became  a 
small  South  Asian  state  wedged  between  Asia's  greatest  land  pow- 
ers, India  and  China.  Nepal  nevertheless  continued  to  provide  a 
fertile  recruiting  ground  for  the  British  and  Indian  armies. 

Under  a  tripartite  agreement  signed  in  1947  by  Nepal,  India, 
and  Britain,  the  Gurkha  brigade  was  divided  between  British  and 
Indian  forces.  Four  regiments  remained  in  the  British  service,  and 
six  passed  to  the  new  Indian  Army,  which  recruited  an  additional 
regiment  for  a  total  of  seven.  Gurkha  units  in  both  military  estab- 
lishments played  an  important  role  throughout  the  postcolonial  peri- 
od. Gurkhas  formed  the  backbone  of  the  British  counterinsurgency 
effort  in  Malaya  that,  by  1960,  had  crushed  the  communist  offen- 
sive on  the  peninsula.  Other  Gurkha  units  fought  in  the  defense 
of  North  Borneo  against  Indonesian- sponsored  guerrillas  in  the  early 


203 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

1960s  and  also  in  the  1982  British  campaign  against  Argentine  forces 
in  the  Falkland  Islands  (called  Islas  Malvinas  by  Argentina). 
Throughout  this  period,  Gurkha  units  were  the  mainstay  of  the 
British  garrison  in  Hong  Kong,  which  was  scheduled  to  revert  to 
China  in  1997. 

Gurkhas  in  the  service  of  India  have  also  played  an  important 
and  colorful  role  in  national  defense,  despite  the  early  complaints 
of  Indian  nationalists  that  Nepalese  soldiers  were  acting  as  British 
mercenaries  or  tools  of  the  Ranas.  According  to  Leo  E.  Rose,  a 
noted  historian  of  the  period,  "However  critical  the  [Indian]  Con- 
gress party  may  have  been  about  the  use  of  the  Gurkhas  by  the 
British,  their  value  was  quickly  recognized."  The  Rana  regime 
sought  to  counter  Indian  criticism  by  specifying  that  Gurkhas  in 
the  Indian  Army  could  not  be  used  against  Nepal,  other  Gurkha 
units,  Hindus,  or  "unarmed  mobs."  No  restrictions  were  imposed, 
however,  on  their  use  against  Muslim  mobs  or  against  external 
enemies,  including  Pakistan  and  China. 

Gurkhas,  some  of  whom  came  from  Nepalese  families  resident 
in  the  Indian  Tarai,  served  with  distinction  in  India's  three  wars 
with  Pakistan  (1947-48,  1965,  and  1971).  Many  Indian  Gurkhas 
also  were  stationed  in  the  former  North-East  Frontier  Agency 
(Arunachal  Pradesh)  when  Chinese  forces  overran  beleaguered  In- 
dian outposts  along  the  disputed  Sino-Indian  frontier  in  1962.  A 
battalion  served  with  distinction  in  the  Congo  (now  Zaire)  in  the 
1960s  as  part  of  the  Indian  Army  contingent  in  the  United  Na- 
tions Operations  in  the  Congo.  Several  battalions  served  with  the 
Indian  Peacekeeping  Force  in  Sri  Lanka  from  1987  to  1990. 

After  World  War  II,  the  end  of  the  British  Raj  (1858-1947), 
and  the  anti-Rana  revolt  of  1950-51,  Nepal  struggled  to  find  its 
identity  in  a  vastly  changed  Indian  subcontinent.  By  1950  all  im- 
portant army  posts  were  held  by  members  of  the  Rana  ruling  fam- 
ily. Many  of  the  battalions  had  just  returned  from  war  duties  in 
India  and  Burma;  the  battalions  included  some  soldiers  who  had 
defected  from  British  units  and  fought  with  the  Japanese  as  part 
of  the  Indian  National  Army.  The  returning  soldiers  found  that 
pay,  rations,  equipment,  housing,  and  general  conditions  of  ser- 
vice in  Nepal  contrasted  unfavorably  with  what  they  had  known 
under  the  British.  Many  of  the  general  officers  had  never  served 
in  the  lower  ranks.  The  bulk  of  the  army  was  stationed  in  the  Kath- 
mandu  Valley,  where  the  Rana  government,  aware  of  growing  op- 
position, could  keep  potentially  disloyal  officers  under  surveillance. 
As  remained  true  in  1991 ,  British  recruiters  attracted  the  best  can- 
didates for  military  service  because  of  improved  prospects  for  ad- 
vancement and  higher  pay.  Those  unable  to  land  positions  in  the 


204 


Nepal:  National  Security 


Brigade  of  Gurkhas  usually  opted  to  serve  in  the  Indian  Army, 
leaving  the  Royal  Nepal  Army  with  the  remaining  large  pool  of 
recruits  from  which  to  choose. 

Many  World  War  II  veterans  were  discharged  at  the  end  of  their 
enlistments.  Many  of  the  officers  who  remained  in  service  were 
unqualified  to  give  proper  training  to  the  young  replacements,  and 
poor  pay  added  to  mounting  discontent.  By  the  time  the  revolt  be- 
gan in  1950,  many  soldiers  were  predisposed  to  defect  to  the  anti- 
Rana  forces  (see  The  Return  of  the  King,  ch.  1).  Most  soldiers, 
however,  remained  loyal  or,  at  a  minimum,  did  not  lend  active 
support  to  political  forces  attempting  to  overthrow  the  Ranas.  The 
officer  corps,  however,  remained  staunchly  loyal  to  the  king 
throughout  the  crisis.  The  organization  leading  the  revolt,  the  Nepa- 
li Congress  Party,  developed  a  distrust  of  the  army  leadership  that 
reportedly  still  persisted  in  some  quarters  in  1991 .  At  the  same  time, 
memories  of  India's  moral  and  limited  materiel  support  for  the  1950 
uprising  led  some  sections  of  the  military  to  question  the  national 
loyalties  of  the  Nepali  Congress  Party. 

Legal  Basis  under  the  1990  Constitution 

The  promulgation  of  the  constitution  in  November  1990  opened 
a  new  era  in  Nepalese  civil-military  relations.  Under  the  Ranas 
and  the  two  monarchs  of  modern  times,  King  Mahendra  Bir  Bikram 
Shah  Dev  (reigned  1955-72)  and  Birendra  Bir  Bikram  Shah  Dev 
(reigned  1972-  ),  military  and  national  defense  decisions  were 
the  sole  prerogative  of  the  palace,  acting  on  the  advice  of  a  small 
coterie  of  retainers  and  senior  military  commanders.  Decisions  were 
not  ordinarily  subject  to  the  approval  of  elected  bodies  other  than 
the  narrowly  based  Rashtriya  Panchayat,  or  National  Panchayat, 
which  served  as  a  rubber  stamp  for  the  palace  (see  The  Panchayat 
System  under  King  Mahendra,  ch.  1;  The  Panchayat  Constitu- 
tion, 1962,  ch.  4). 

Under  the  new  constitutional  order,  the  king  retains  his  tradi- 
tional authority  as  the  supreme  commander  of  the  armed  forces. 
The  king,  however,  is  not  the  sole  source  of  authority  in  Nepal 
but  rather  a  symbol  of  national  unity.  In  a  major  break  from  past 
constitutional  experiments,  sovereignty  is  vested  in  the  people,  not 
in  the  person  of  the  king.  The  distinction  is  important  in  that  the 
military  no  longer  acts  solely  as  an  instrument  of  the  king  but  also 
is  in  principle  subordinate  to  the  authority  of  the  popularly  elect- 
ed Parliament  (see  The  Constitution  of  1990,  ch.  4). 

During  the  protracted  discussions  that  occurred  in  1990  over  the 
outlines  of  the  new  constitution,  King  Birendra,  fearing  that  a  fu- 
ture civilian  government  might  radically  undercut  the  military's 


205 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

prestige  and  with  it  the  monarch's  power  or  very  existence,  report- 
edly insisted  on  retaining  ultimate  authority  over  the  military.  Hav- 
ing to  contend  with  independent  centers  of  power  that  were  beyond 
his  direct  control,  Birendra  realized  that  the  military  was  his  only 
reliable  institutional  base  of  support.  Military  commanders,  for  their 
part,  feared  that  civilian  politicians  might  attempt  to  politicize  the 
army  and  undermine  discipline.  Consequently,  the  1990  constitu- 
tion represents  a  compromise  between  the  king,  who  still  retains 
many  avenues  to  power  should  he  choose,  and  a  newly  empowered 
civilian  government. 

Several  provisions  circumscribe  the  palace's  previously  unfet- 
tered right  to  employ  the  army  as  it  sees  fit.  Unlike  the  legislature 
under  the  1962  Panchayat  Constitution,  Parliament  has  real  au- 
thority to  determine  and  approve  the  annual  defense  budget.  Al- 
though the  role  is  not  specified  in  the  constitution,  the  civilian 
minister  of  defense  oversees  the  day-to-day  operations  of  the  mili- 
tary. Conceivably,  an  assertive  Parliament  could  hobble  the  king's 
authority  over  the  army  by  denying  funds.  Day-to-day  decisions 
affecting  national  security  and  military  affairs  are  implemented  by 
the  king  only  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  elected  civilian 
government. 

The  power  to  appoint  a  chief  of  army  staff,  another  traditional 
royal  prerogative  that  afforded  the  palace  direct  control  over  the 
military,  also  is  subject  to  the  recommendation  of  an  elected  prime 
minister.  This  provision  has  the  potential  to  precipitate  a  constitu- 
tional crisis  should  the  king  refuse  the  recommendation  of  the  prime 
minister.  The  constitution  offers  no  guidance  should  such  a  dis- 
agreement arise.  In  the  first  test  of  this  clause,  however,  the  newly 
elected  Nepali  Congress  government  of  Girija  Prasad  (G.P.)  Koirala 
assented  to  the  appointment  of  General  Gadul  Shumsher  Jang  Ba- 
hadur Rana  to  head  the  Royal  Nepal  Army  within  days  after  as- 
suming office  in  May  1991 .  The  prime  minister,  the  king,  and  the 
army  were  anxious  to  demonstrate  that  the  new  constitutional  order 
was  working. 

Article  1 18  of  the  constitution  mandates  the  formation  of  a  three- 
person  National  Defence  Council  consisting  of  the  prime  minister, 
who  chairs  the  body;  the  defense  minister;  and  the  chief  of  army 
staff,  the  nation's  senior  uniformed  officer.  According  to  this  pro- 
vision, the  king  "shall  carry  out  the  administration  and  deploy- 
ment of  the  Royal  Nepal  Army  on  the  recommendation  of  the 
National  Defence  Council."  Although  as  of  late  1991  there  was 
no  clear  indication  of  the  role  this  hybrid  body  performed,  its  for- 
mation underscored  the  insistence  of  King  Birendra  and  the  army 
that  Parliament  must  not  be  solely  responsible  for  national  defense. 


206 


Soldiers  at  Sagarmatha  National  Park  Headquarters 
Courtesy  Janet  MacDonald 

Accordingly,  the  National  Defence  Council  will  probably  act  as 
an  intermediary  body  between  the  Parliament  and  the  king  where 
decisions  affecting  the  military  will  be  debated  and  negotiated.  Un- 
der this  arrangement,  the  army,  still  a  critical  component  of  polit- 
ical stability,  also  retains  a  formal  say  in  national  security  affairs. 

Despite  Nepal's  transition  from  an  absolute  monarchy  to  a 
democracy,  the  king  retains  formidable  emergency  powers  that, 
if  activated,  would  decisively  tip  the  political  balance  of  power  in 
his  favor.  Article  115,  "Powers  to  Remove  Difficulties,"  grants 
the  king  the  unilateral  right  to  proclaim  a  state  of  emergency  in 
the  event  of  a  "grave  crisis  created  by  war,  external  attack,  armed 
revolt  or  extreme  economic  disorder."  Under  a  state  of  emergen- 
cy the  king  assumes  direct  rule  and  "may  issue  necessary  orders 
as  are  designed  to  meet  the  exigencies."  Authority  to  implement 
this  provision  is  not  clearly  spelled  out,  but  the  king  is  specifically 
authorized  to  suspend  fundamental  rights,  except  for  habeas  cor- 
pus and  the  right  to  organize  political  parties  and  unions.  The 
proclamation  of  an  emergency  must  be  submitted  to  the  lower  house 
of  Parliament  within  three  months  for  approval  by  a  two-thirds 
majority,  after  which  it  may  remain  in  effect  for  six  months,  with 
one  six-month  renewal  period.  Although  this  provision  was  untested 
as  of  September  1991,  the  king  clearly  has  the  authority  to  dissolve 


207 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

the  government  and  muster  the  nation's  security  forces  to  enforce 
royal  decrees,  if  the  situation  warrants. 

Provisions  relating  to  the  conduct  of  foreign  affairs  also  have  na- 
tional security  implications.  Under  Article  126,  treaties  with  for- 
eign governments  must  be  ratified  by  a  two-thirds  majority  of  both 
houses  of  Parliament  as  opposed  to  the  simple  majority  required 
for  other  bills.  Specifically,  the  constitution  mandates  a  two-thirds 
majority  parliamentary  assent  to  treaties  bearing  on  ' 'peace  and 
friendship,"  defense  and  strategic  alliances,  the  demarcation  of  na- 
tional boundaries,  and  "national  resources  and  distribution  in  the 
utilization  thereof. ' '  One  provision  forbids  passage  of  any  treaty 
or  agreement  that  "compromises  the  territorial  integrity  of  Nepal." 
The  rationale  for  these  restrictions,  although  not  spelled  out  in  the 
constitution  itself,  clearly  reflects  widespread  suspicions  on  the  part 
of  political  parties  and,  in  particular,  the  Nepalese  public  that  an 
overbearing  India  might  press  for,  or  even  dictate,  treaty  terms 
unfavorable  to  Nepal  (see  The  Security  Environment,  this  ch.). 

Organization  of  the  Armed  Forces 

The  organizational  structure  of  the  Nepalese  defense  establish- 
ment reflected  the  country's  indigenous  military  traditions,  its  long 
association  with  the  British  military,  and  reforms  introduced  by 
Indian  military  advisers  in  the  1950s  and  1960s.  There  was  strong 
reason  to  suspect  that  the  basic  changes  introduced  by  the  consti- 
tution as  a  result  of  the  success  of  the  prodemocracy  movement 
would,  in  time,  lead  to  new  organizational  arrangements  and 
changes  in  command  and  control  in  line  with  the  political  realities 
that  emerged  in  the  early  1990s. 

Following  the  British  pattern,  there  was  a  Ministry  of  Defence, 
which,  in  conjunction  with  the  king  and  the  Parliament,  was  respon- 
sible for  overseeing  the  military  establishment.  As  with  other 
government  ministers,  the  minister  of  defense  (a  portfolio  assumed 
by  Prime  Minister  G.P.  Koirala  upon  his  government's  assump- 
tion of  office  on  May  29,  1991)  was  a  cabinet  official  appointed 
by  the  prime  minister.  Under  previous  constitutions,  the  king  or- 
dinarily assumed  the  role  of  minister  of  defense,  although  routine 
oversight  of  the  ministry  was  performed  by  a  civilian  bureaucrat 
or  army  officer  who  served  at  the  pleasure  of  the  king.  The  Minis- 
try of  Defence,  located  in  Kathmandu,  was  responsible  for  over- 
seeing routine  matters  such  as  pay,  budget,  and  procurement, 
although  the  army  high  command  retained  broad  discretion  in  mat- 
ters relating  to  promotions  and  recruitment.  Real  command 
authority  over  military  operations  was  generally  reserved  for  the 
king,  who  acted  in  accordance  with  the  wishes  of  the  National 


208 


Nepal:  National  Security 


Defence  Council  and  the  elected  civilian  government.  As  of 
mid- 1991 ,  the  degree  of  influence  these  newly  chartered  organiza- 
tions had  over  military  affairs  could  not  be  determined. 

The  nation's  sole  regular  armed  force  was  the  Royal  Nepal  Army, 
also  headquartered  in  Kathmandu.  There  was  no  separate  air  force. 
The  army,  however,  operated  a  small  air  wing,  primarily  to  trans- 
port troops  within  the  country  and  to  aid  the  civilian  population 
during  natural  disasters.  Because  Nepal  is  landlocked,  the  coun- 
try had  no  naval  capabilities  beyond  a  few  small  launches  used  by 
the  army  to  patrol  lakes  and  ford  rivers  (see  Geography,  ch.  2). 

The  Royal  Nepal  Army  headquarters  was  patterned  after  the 
British  and  Indian  systems.  The  highest  post  in  army  headquar- 
ters was  that  of  chief  of  army  staff,  the  only  four- star  billet  in  1991 . 
Directly  below  the  chief  were  five  staff  sections:  inspector  general, 
quartermaster  general,  adjutant  general,  major  general  of  ordnance, 
and  the  general  staff  general  (see  fig.  11).  All  sections  were  head- 
ed by  major  generals,  a  two-star  billet.  Of  the  five  sections,  the 
most  important  was  the  general  staff  general,  as  all  army  field  eche- 
lons reported  to  army  headquarters  through  him.  This  office  also 
controlled  functional  directorates  dealing  with  military  operations, 
training,  military  intelligence,  infantry  brigades,  and  support  units. 

Defense  Spending 

Nepal  was  one  of  the  poorest  nations  in  the  world.  With  a  per 
capita  income  ranging  from  US$158  to  US$180  per  year,  about 
40  percent  of  the  population  living  in  conditions  of  absolute  poverty, 
and  virtually  no  marketable  national  resources,  the  country's  fis- 
cal resources  for  maintaining  a  standing  army  were  woefully  in- 
adequate (see  The  Five- Year  Plans,  ch.  3).  To  compound  matters, 
the  country  had  virtually  no  capacity  to  provision  its  military  be- 
yond the  most  basic  items  such  as  food,  clothing,  and  small-arms 
ammunition.  Almost  all  of  the  army's  equipment  needs,  such  as 
air-defense  guns  and  aircraft  of  all  kinds,  and  its  requirements  for 
overhauling  major  equipment  items  were  purchased  abroad  through 
scarce  foreign  exchange  reserves  or  concessional  terms.  By  any  stan- 
dard, the  Royal  Nepal  Army  faced  severe  resource  constraints,  even 
in  comparison  with  other  less-developed  countries. 

Nevertheless,  resources  earmarked  for  the  military  represented 
a  modest  defense  burden.  According  to  1989  estimates,  approxi- 
mately US$33  million,  or  1.2  percent  of  the  gross  national  product 
(GNP — see  Glossary),  was  budgeted  for  defense.  The  defense  outlay 
represented  approximately  6.2  percent  of  the  central  government 
expenditures  budget.  Health,  education,  and  economic  development 
clearly  took  priority  over  defense  (see  Regular  and  Development 


209 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


> 

LL 
U. 

cr 

< 

< 

H 

UJ 

(A 

</> 

> 

PALE 

ARM 

LU 

u. 

Z 

O 

-1 

u. 

< 

LU 

ROY 

CHI 

:<r> 


LL  UJ 

cr  cr  LU 
O  <  o 

Hi 

Q  Z 


cr  cr  z 

o  □  < 
LU  ^  cr 


°>z 
Cc£  O 

2<E 

u  —  cr 

LU  _  uj 
CESQ. 

5  O 


ii 


W  _| 

<  < 

2  cr 

cr  lu 

LU  Z 

h-  LU 

cr  o 

< 

o 


si 

w  Ki 
z 


210 


Nepal:  National  Security 


Budget,  ch.  3).  Defense  budget  figures  must  be  used  with  caution, 
however.  Most  observers  suspected  that  actual  outlays  for  the  mili- 
tary were  buried  in  other  budget  categories  or  else  handled  dis- 
creetly under  accounts  controlled  by  the  royal  family.  Much  of  the 
defense  budget,  however,  paid  for  routine  recurring  costs,  partic- 
ularly salaries  and  pensions.  The  defense  budget  traditionally  was 
not  subjected  to  close  public  scrutiny,  and  all  but  the  most  gener- 
alized statistics  were  a  closely  guarded  secret.  As  of  mid- 1991,  it 
was  unclear  whether  this  pattern  would  hold  true.  The  Parliament, 
now  genuinely  representative,  was  constitutionally  responsible  for 
passing  the  annual  budget  and  overseeing  national  defense  require- 
ments, but  had  not  yet  had  a  chance  to  prove  itself  in  practice. 

Missions 

National  Defense 

The  primary  mission  of  the  armed  forces  was  defense  of  territorial 
integrity  against  external  attack.  Wedged  between  India  and  Chi- 
na, however,  Nepal  was  clearly  unable  to  mount  anything  more 
than  a  token  conventional  defense  in  the  face  of  overwhelming  odds. 
By  necessity,  governments  in  Kathmandu  have  always  had  to  rely 
on  diplomacy  and  the  restraint  of  neighbors,  rather  than  Nepal's 
military  strength,  to  ensure  national  survival.  During  peacetime, 
the  army's  routine  border  defense  duties  included  assisting  the  police 
in  antismuggling  operations  and  providing  security  in  remote 
regions  where  there  was  no  police  presence. 

In  the  event  of  conventional  attack  by  either  China  or  India, 
Nepalese  military  forces  would  mount  a  token  defense  to  stall  the 
enemy  advance  until  international  pressures  could  be  mobilized 
to  bring  about  a  cease-fire  and  a  return  to  the  status  quo.  If  inter- 
national mediation  failed,  the  military  and  police  units  that  re- 
mained intact  would  withdraw  from  populated  areas  to  lead  a 
guerrilla  war  against  occupation  forces.  Substantial  numbers  of 
Gurkha  and  Royal  Nepal  Army  veterans  also  would  be  pressed 
into  service,  thereby  multiplying  the  available  military  forces  two 
or  threefold.  Nepal's  position  as  a  buffer  state  between  two  histor- 
ically antagonistic  powers  also  dictated  that  a  beleaguered  govern- 
ment in  Kathmandu  probably  would  appeal  for  assistance  from 
the  nonbelligerent  neighbor. 

Most  of  Nepal's  population  outside  the  Kathmandu  Valley  lived 
in  hamlets  that  were  either  cut  off  from  the  rest  of  the  country  or 
else  connected  only  to  a  local  economy  and  communications  infra- 
structure. Hence,  the  loss  of  some  rural  districts  during  a  conven- 
tional conflict  would  not  necessarily  bring  about  the  capitulation 


211 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

of  the  entire  country.  Semiautonomous  guerrilla  bands  acting  un- 
der the  direction  of  retired  or  serving  military  officers  could  oper- 
ate almost  indefinitely  and  substantially  raise  the  costs  of  an 
occupying  force.  However,  loss  of  the  valley,  the  political  and  cul- 
tural nerve  center  of  the  nation,  could  well  mean  the  end  of  or- 
ganized resistance.  Partly  for  this  reason,  Nepal's  national  defenses 
were  deployed  primarily  to  defend  the  capital  area  in  general  and 
the  national  leadership  in  particular. 

Geography  also  limited  Nepal's  capacity  to  mount  a  conventional 
defense  of  the  nation.  Although  the  Himalayas  provided  a  nearly 
impenetrable  shield  against  large-scale,  rapid  movement  of  troops 
from  China,  the  harsh  terrain  also  prevented  Nepalese  forces  from 
erecting  significant  defenses  along  the  1,236-kilometer  border.  A 
paucity  of  roads,  bridges,  and  airfields  in  the  region  would  con- 
fine the  Nepalese  military  response  to  provisioning  scattered  border 
outposts  and  positions  near  the  mountainous  tracks  leading  to  some 
fifteen  passes  along  the  northern  border  (see  Roads,  ch.  3).  The 
only  land  corridor  of  any  significance  in  a  conflict  with  China  would 
be  the  main  road,  built  with  Chinese  assistance,  that  connected 
Kathmandu  with  Tibet.  New  Delhi  has  repeatedly  expressed  its 
fears  that  the  road  could  serve  as  a  Chinese  invasion  route,  not 
a  Nepalese  resupply  route. 

Mounting  a  conventional  defense  against  India  posed  an  equal- 
ly daunting  challenge.  India  boasted  significant  ground  force  as- 
sets along  its  1,690-kilometer  border  with  Nepal;  moreover,  these 
formations  were  connected  by  extensive  lines  of  communication 
to  the  Indian  heartland,  where  reinforcements  could  be  introduced 
into  Nepal  in  short  order.  Nepal  had  virtually  no  combat  air  capa- 
bility and  its  rudimentary  air  defense  assets  were  no  match  for  the 
Indian  Air  Force,  second  in  size  and  capabilities  only  to  China's 
among  Asia's  air  forces.  Within  Nepal,  defense  against  a  concerted 
Indian  advance  in  the  jungles  and  foothills  of  the  Tarai  was  clearly 
impractical.  Although  the  East- West  Highway,  or  Mahendra  High- 
way, connecting  the  extreme  ends  of  the  country  was  nearing  com- 
pletion in  1991,  most  of  Nepal's  approximately  4,500  kilometers 
of  all-weather,  motorable  roads  ran  north-south,  thereby  complicating 
cross-country  military  movements.  Avenues  of  approach  leading 
north  from  India  were  considerably  better  developed  than  the 
generally  primitive  east-west  lines  of  communication  available  to 
Nepalese  forces.  The  country's  rail  network  was  limited  to  a  forty- 
eight-kilometer  spur  line  running  from  the  border  town  of  Raxaul 
to  Amlekhganj  and  a  fifty-three-kilometer  narrow-gauge  track  from 
the  Indian  border  town  of  Jaynagar  to  Janakpur  and  Bijalpura  in 
Nepal. 


212 


Nepal:  National  Security 


Internal  Security 

Owing  to  its  historical  position  as  an  instrument  of  royal  authori- 
ty, the  army  had  always  assumed  the  role  of  protecting  the  king 
against  threats  to  his  political  as  well  as  physical  survival.  In  the 
modern  era,  the  28,000-strong  Nepalese  Police  Force  ordinarily 
was  the  first  line  of  defense  in  combating  incidents  of  political  and 
criminal  violence  (see  The  Police  System;  The  Judicial  System, 
this  ch.).  A  primary  mission  of  the  army,  however,  was  to  back 
up  the  police  whenever  additional  coverage  or  firepower  was  re- 
quired. This  mission,  known  as  "aid-to-the-civil-power"  in  Brit- 
ish parlance,  posed  risks  for  the  regular  army.  Detailing  soldiers 
to  arrest  demonstrators,  root  out  subversives,  and  fire  on  crowds 
risked  tarnishing  the  army's  reputation  for  impartiality.  Moreover, 
overuse  of  the  army  in  domestic  peacekeeping  tasks  undermined 
military  morale  and  discipline,  upset  routine  training  cycles,  and 
diverted  soldiers  from  conventional  defense  chores,  such  as  border 
security.  Ordinarily,  the  army  preferred  to  leave  routine  internal 
security  chores  to  the  police. 

The  army  has  performed  aid-to-the-civil-power  duties,  including 
riot  control  and  disaster  relief.  In  the  1960s  and  1970s,  for  example, 
the  army  conducted  sporadic  counterinsurgency  operations  against 
Tibetan  Khampa  guerrillas  operating  in  the  remote  mountains 
of  northwestern  Nepal.  The  campaign,  which  was  finally  suppressed 
in  1974,  employed  small  army  units  trained  in  counterguerrilla 
tactics. 

The  army  faced  its  most  severe  test  during  the  strikes  and  demon- 
strations called  by  the  Movement  for  the  Restoration  of  Democra- 
cy, or  prodemocracy  movement,  in  the  spring  of  1990.  The 
prodemocracy  movement,  composed  of  a  broad  spectrum  of  polit- 
ical parties  led  by  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  and  the  United  Left 
Front  (a  group  of  seven  communist  parties),  staged  a  civil  disobe- 
dience campaign  in  support  of  its  demands  for  sweeping  constitu- 
tional reforms.  The  police  responded  to  the  crescendo  of  protests 
by  arresting  movement  leaders,  closing  the  university  and  colleges, 
and  censoring  news  reports  of  the  disturbances.  When  these  mea- 
sures failed  to  check  the  demonstrations,  security  forces  made  mass 
arrests  and  resorted  to  firing  on  unruly,  although  usually  unarmed, 
crowds.  By  March  1990,  army  units  were  heavily  involved  in  put- 
ting down  the  protests  and  often  staged  "flag  marches,"  or  shows 
of  force,  to  prevent  crowds  from  gathering  or  to  signal  the  govern- 
ment's determination  to  enforce  emergency  regulations.  On  April 
6,  the  day  after  King  Birendra  reorganized  his  government  and 
agreed  to  institute  constitutional  reforms,  a  crowd  of  as  many  as 


213 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

200,000  strong  gathered  in  downtown  Kathmandu.  By  all  accounts, 
the  army  panicked  and  fired  on  the  crowd  as  it  approached  the 
palace,  killing  at  least  twenty-five  protesters.  All  told,  security  forces 
reportedly  killed  at  least  fifty  persons  during  the  height  of  the  pro- 
tests between  February  and  April. 

The  national  elections  held  in  May  1991  witnessed  an  un- 
precedented peacetime  mobilization  of  military  force  in  Nepal. 
Many  observers  of  the  Nepalese  political  scene  predicted  widespread 
violence.  To  head  off  any  trouble,  the  entire  army  was  put  on  alert 
and  deployed  throughout  the  country  to  ensure  a  free  and  fair  elec- 
tion. Its  missions  included  protecting  polling  booths,  monitoring 
campaign  rallies,  and  patrolling  streets  and  highways.  In  addition, 
42,000  retired  police  and  soldiers  were  pressed  into  temporary  ser- 
vice. By  all  accounts,  the  army  performed  well.  A  minimum  of 
violence  and  few  electoral  irregularities  were  reported  (see  Elec- 
tions, ch.  4).  Once  the  voting  was  completed,  the  army  returned 
to  the  barracks,  police  auxiliaries  were  relieved  of  their  duties,  and 
the  regular  police  force  resumed  normal  duties. 

Force  Dispositions  and  Capabilities 

In  1991  the  Royal  Nepal  Army,  numbering  approximately 
35,000,  was  the  country's  sole  military  force.  Army  organization 
followed  the  British  pattern.  Field  formations  included  fourteen  in- 
fantry brigades.  The  brigades  were  numbered  consecutively  from 
one  through  sixteen  (minus  numbers  eight  and  twelve,  which  were 
considered  inauspicious  according  to  Hindu  astrology).  The  four- 
teen brigades,  in  turn,  controlled  a  variety  of  units,  including  in- 
fantry battalions,  an  airborne  unit,  an  air  defense  regiment,  a  signal 
battalion,  a  transportation  regiment,  an  armored  car  company,  and 
an  unknown  number  of  independent  infantry  companies  and  spe- 
cial forces  units. 

One  of  the  army  infantry  battalions  served  as  part  of  the  Unit- 
ed Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon  (UNIFIL)  and  performed 
peacekeeping  duties  in  the  Arab-Israeli  dispute.  Personnel  in  this 
battalion  served  six-month  tours  of  duty,  after  which  they  returned 
home  and  were  replaced  by  personnel  drawn  from  other  units  on 
a  rotating  basis.  Selection  for  service  in  UNIFIL  was  highly  coveted 
by  soldiers  of  all  rank  because  those  who  served  abroad  received 
United  Nations-scale  pay  and  perquisites,  as  well  as  the  opportu- 
nity to  purchase  consumer  items  that  were  unavailable  or  prohibi- 
tively expensive  at  home. 

The  peacetime  disposition  of  forces  underscored  the  fact  that  the 
army's  primary  mission  was  to  back  up  local  police  in  maintain- 
ing security  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley,  the  seat  of  government  and 


214 


Nepal:  National  Security 


the  linchpin  of  political  stability  in  the  country.  Fully  half  of  the 
army  brigades  were  garrisoned  in  or  around  the  capitol,  including 
the  elite  Royal  Guards  Brigade  (the  ninth)  that  served  as  the  monar- 
chy's praetorian  guard.  Additionally,  many  of  the  independent  and 
specialized  army  units  were  attached  to  brigades  stationed  in  Kath- 
mandu.  These  units  included  an  airborne  battalion  (known  as  the 
"para  battalion")  and  various  signal,  engineer,  artillery,  trans- 
port, and  medical  units.  Brigade  headquarters  outside  the  capital 
were  located  at  Pokhara,  Dipayal,  and  other  towns  across  the  coun- 
try. Each  of  the  brigades  bore  a  distinctive  unit  nomenclature  af- 
ter the  British  fashion  and  wore  distinctive  arm  patches.  Lower 
echelon  designations  within  each  brigade  included  squadrons  and 
troops  (equivalent  to  United  States  Army  companies  and  platoons, 
respectively). 

Throughout  its  modern  existence,  the  army  has  had  to  cope  with 
shortages  of  virtually  every  category  of  weapon  and  equipment. 
Inventory  consisted  mostly  of  obsolete  weapons  purchased  from, 
or  donated  by,  India  and  Britain.  This  equipment  included  Ferret 
scout  cars,  various  calibers  of  towed  artillery  pieces  and  mortars, 
and  a  diverse  array  of  small  arms.  During  wartime  and  declared 
national  emergencies,  the  military  had  the  authority  to  comman- 
deer private  and  state-owned  transport  assets,  such  as  trucks  and 
buses  for  ferrying  troops  and  supplies.  Some  miscellaneous  equip- 
ment items,  such  as  communications  gear,  small  arms,  and  air 
defense  guns,  were  purchased  from  France,  Germany,  the  United 
States,  and  China.  Nepal  lacked  both  the  financial  resources  to  pur- 
chase major  equipment  items  and  a  foreign  benefactor  willing  to 
supply  armaments  on  a  grant  or  concessional  basis.  Consequent- 
ly, it  was  unlikely  that  Nepal  could  sustain  high-intensity  combat 
operations  without  massive  foreign  assistance  provided  on  a  time- 
ly basis. 

The  army  also  supported  a  modest  air  wing  known  as  the  Royal 
Nepal  Army  Air  Service.  Based  in  Kathmandu  and  subordinate 
to  a  brigade,  the  organization  was  established  in  1979.  Its  missions 
were  to  transport  troops  to  far-flung  outposts  that  were  inaccessi- 
ble by  road,  to  fly  paratroopers  to  drop  zones,  and  to  assist  in  civilian 
relief  operations  in  the  aftermath  of  natural  disasters  such  as  floods 
or  avalanches.  In  1991  the  army  air  service  inventory  included  fixed- 
wing  aircraft,  such  as  Indian-made  HS-748  turboprops,  Skyvans, 
and  a  DeHaviland  Twin  Otter.  Its  helicopter  inventory  included 
Pumas,  a  Bell  2061,  Allouettes,  and  Chetaks  (Indian-made  Al- 
louettes).  In  all,  the  air  order  of  battle  totalled  about  fourteen  air- 
craft of  all  descriptions,  none  of  which  was  believed  to  be  armed 
with  guns  or  missiles.  Consequently,  the  army  air  service  was 


215 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

considered  a  logistics  support  element  as  opposed  to  an  offensive 
strike  asset. 

Pilots  were  trained  abroad,  primarily  in  India  and  Britain.  The 
force  reportedly  suffered  critical  shortages  of  maintenance  personnel, 
owing  to  the  scarcity  of  technically  competent  recruits  and  the  at- 
traction of  lucrative  job  offers  in  the  Persian  Gulf  and  elsewhere. 
There  were  thirty-six  airfields  in  Nepal  that  could  be  used  for  mili- 
tary airlift  operations.  Many  of  the  airfields  were  configured  for 
short  takeoff  and  landing  (STOL)  aircraft  operated  by  Royal  Nepal 
Airlines,  the  government-owned  commercial  airline.  Commercial 
aircraft  could  be  pressed  into  military  service  during  emergencies 
(see  Civil  Aviation,  ch.  3).  In  1991  the  inventory  of  Royal  Nepal 
Airlines  totalled  eighteen  aircraft. 

Recruitment,  Training,  and  Morale 

In  1991  recruitment  into  the  all- volunteer  Royal  Nepal  Army 
theoretically  was  open  to  all  citizens  regardless  of  caste,  religion, 
or  ethnic  background.  In  practice,  however,  recruits  tended  to  be 
drawn  from  the  ethnic  and  caste  groups  that  have  traditionally  sup- 
plied the  bulk  of  the  Nepalese  and  Gurkha  regiments;  the  military 
apparently  preferred  to  recruit  from  ethnic  groups  drawn  from  the 
mountain  areas  and  the  Kathmandu  Valley  (see  Armed  Forces  and 
Society,  this  ch.).  Not  only  were  these  groups  the  traditional  source 
of  military  recruitment,  but  they  generally  were  presumed  to  be 
untainted  by  any  real  or  imagined  loyalties  to  India.  As  with  simi- 
lar complaints  leveled  against  Kathmandu' s  preferential  recruit- 
ment policies  for  government  service,  residents  of  the  Tarai  Region 
voiced  complaints  of  official  discrimination  in  military  recruitment. 
According  to  press  reports,  residents  of  the  Tarai  Region,  known 
as  madhesis  ("midlanders"),  constituted  some  40  percent  of  Nepal's 
population  but  were  severely  underrepresented  in  the  army  and 
police.  More  than  89  percent  of  the  country  was  Hindu;  accord- 
ingly, the  religious  composition  of  the  army  was  thought  to  be 
almost  exclusively  Hindu,  with  a  smattering  of  Buddhists. 

Even  though  Nepalese,  British,  and  Indian  recruiters  compet- 
ed annually  for  the  best  candidates  for  military  service,  none  of 
the  forces  had  ever  encountered  a  dearth  of  recruits.  In  a  popula- 
tion of  over  19  million  persons,  there  were  about  4.5  million  phys- 
ically fit  males  between  the  ages  of  fifteen  and  forty-nine  available 
for  military  service;  about  225,000  males  annually  reached  mili- 
tary age,  which  was  eighteen  years  (see  Population,  ch.  2).  In  the 
early  1990s,  the  army  revealed  no  personnel  mobilization  plan  in 
the  event  of  war  or  a  declared  national  emergency,  nor  was  there 
any  known  contingency  plan  to  institute  conscription  during  or  in 


216 


Parading  on  New  Road,  Kathmandu,  in  celebration  of  the 
royal  kumari,  the  virgin  goddess 
Courtesy  Harvey  Follender 

anticipation  of  an  emergency.  Retired  soldiers,  however,  customarily 
were  regarded  as  a  valuable  resource  that  the  government  could 
rely  upon  during  wartime.  Over  100,000  military  pensioners  of  the 
Nepalese,  Indian,  and  British  armies  resided  in  Nepal.  This  group 
could  provide  a  pool  of  military  personnel  in  an  emergency.  All 
Nepalese  service  personnel  were  liable  for  call-up  after  retirement. 

The  different  languages  that  characterized  the  social  mosaic  of 
Nepalese  society  posed  no  formidable  obstacle  because  virtually 
all  soldiers  spoke  Nepali  (referred  to  in  British  and  Indian  regi- 
ments as  "Gurkhali").  Most  officers,  because  of  the  higher  educa- 
tional requirements  demanded  of  them,  possessed  at  least  a  limited 
knowledge  of  English.  Personnel  who  aspired  to  be  general  officers 
or  to  attend  military  training  courses  abroad  invariably  were  fluent 
in  English. 

Caste  and  ethnic  differences  were  minimized  by  the  longstand- 
ing policy  of  assigning  recruits  from  the  same  area  and  ethnic  groups 
to  the  same  unit,  a  policy  also  practiced  in  British  and  Indian  Gur- 
kha regiments.  Low-caste  enlistees  often  were  assigned  to  service 
units,  whereas  officer  ranks  were  staffed  largely  by  upper-caste 
recruits  (primarily  Chhetris)  and  those  applicants  with  long  family 
histories  of  army  service. 


217 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Women  played  a  marginal  role  in  the  armed  forces  in  the  early 
1990s.  Professional  opportunities  for  women  in  Nepal  were  re- 
stricted. A  woman's  station  in  life  generally  was  confined  to  rais- 
ing children,  maintaining  the  home,  and  performing  agricultural 
and  handicraft  labor  (see  Women's  Status  and  Role  in  Society, 
ch.  2).  A  limited  number  of  women  served  in  the  armed  forces  as 
physicians,  nurses,  nursing  assistants,  and  parachute  packers  at- 
tached to  the  para  battalion.  Pay  scales  were  the  same  as  those  of 
males,  although  prospects  for  promotion  within  the  few  job  cate- 
gories open  to  women  were  limited. 

Recruitment  regulations  prescribed  that  qualified  candidates  for 
enlistment  appear  before  a  selection  and  recruiting  board  composed 
of  an  officer  from  the  Department  of  the  Adjutant  General  and 
four  other  officers.  Candidates  were  required  to  be  between  eigh- 
teen and  twenty-three  years  of  age,  physically  fit,  and  at  least  161 
centimeters  tall.  Exceptions  were  made  for  honorably  discharged 
former  Gurkha  soldiers  who  were  under  the  age  of  thirty-six,  phys- 
ically fit,  and  had  not  been  convicted  of  a  criminal  offense.  Ap- 
pointment was  confirmed  only  after  the  candidate's  statements 
regarding  residence,  age,  caste,  and  address  were  attested  to  by 
the  army  or  civil  service.  A  recruit  could  be  dismissed  at  any  time 
during  the  first  year  of  training. 

Upon  entering  the  service,  the  recruit  signed  a  contract  to  par- 
ticipate in  drills  and  training  prescribed  by  army  regulations  and 
to  obey  orders  wherever  he  or  she  might  be  sent.  Enlistment  last- 
ed for  an  initial  period  of  ten  years,  except  for  former  Gurkhas, 
who  enlisted  for  three  years.  All  recruits  were  required  to  take  an 
oath  to  protect  the  life  and  throne  of  the  king  and  to  arrest  or  report 
any  person  threatening  the  king.  As  of  1991,  the  army  had  not 
revised  this  oath  so  that  recruits  also  swore  to  uphold  the  constitu- 
tion, as  was  the  practice  in  many  democracies.  Military  indoctri- 
nation at  all  levels  still  was  closely  associated  with  the  defense  of 
the  king,  who  many  Nepalese  regarded  as  the  reincarnation  of  the 
Hindu  god  Vishnu.  Devotion  to  duty  thus  carried  with  it  a  marked 
element  of  religious  devotion  to  the  person  of  the  king  (see  Religion 
and  Society,  ch.  2). 

Military  pay  scales  generally  were  the  same  as  Nepalese  govern- 
ment civilian  pay  scales.  Although  they  were  abysmally  low  by 
Western  standards,  military  pay  and  benefits  were  quite  attrac- 
tive by  Nepalese  standards,  and  military  service  was  highly  sought 
after.  Moreover,  job  security,  promotion  prospects,  and  econom- 
ic attractions  offered  by  military  service  were  virtually  unmatched 
in  the  small  private  sector,  particularly  for  applicants  with  limited 
education  and  job  skills.  Pay  scales  also  included  allocations  for 


218 


Nepal:  National  Security 


rations  and  travel  allowances  while  on  duty  and  en  route  home  dur- 
ing leave  periods.  Officers  received  housing,  medical,  and  educa- 
tional benefits,  and  family  allowances  that  also  were  attractive  by 
Nepalese  standards.  Soldiers  earned  pensions  after  seventeen  years 
of  service;  maximum  pension  benefits  could  reach  60  percent  of 
a  soldier's  final  pay  rate. 

The  army  maintained  a  liberal  leave  policy  that  contributed  to 
good  morale.  Leave  was  of  three  types:  ordinary,  home,  and  sick. 
The  maximum  twenty  days'  annual  ordinary  leave  was  not  cumula- 
tive from  year  to  year.  Home  leave  accrued  to  soldiers  after  one 
year  of  service  at  the  rate  of  forty-five  days  each  year.  Sick  leave 
of  up  to  fifteen  days  annually  was  authorized.  Ration  and  travel 
allowances  were  included  as  part  of  the  leave  policy. 

Beyond  pay  and  leave,  other  factors  that  contributed  to  good 
morale  within  the  ranks  included  opportunities  to  acquire  an  edu- 
cation and  job  skills — attributes  that  were  transferable  to  civilian 
life.  Moreover,  military  service  carried  with  it  the  prestige  of  serv- 
ing in  a  profession  that  was  highly  regarded  by  most  of  the  Nepa- 
lese public. 

The  quality  of  military  personnel,  particularly  within  the  enlist- 
ed ranks,  was  regarded  by  most  observers  as  excellent.  Nepalese 
troops  are  renowned  for  their  toughness,  stamina,  adaptability  to 
harsh  climates  and  terrain,  and  willingness  to  obey  orders. 

Because  the  incidence  of  infectious  diseases  was  high  in  the  gen- 
eral population,  malaria,  tuberculosis,  syphilis,  and  dysentery  prob- 
ably were  present  in  any  pool  of  recruits  in  spite  of  efforts  to  screen 
out  the  physically  unfit  before  enlistment.  In  the  service,  however, 
medical  care,  adequate  diet,  and  hygienic  measures  greatly  reduced 
the  incidence  of  disease,  and  experience  in  the  varied  environments 
of  Asia,  Europe,  North  Africa,  and  the  Middle  East  has  shown 
that  illness  in  Nepalese  units  was  not  a  serious  problem.  As  of  1991 , 
there  was  no  indication  that  the  army  screened  recruits  or  serving 
personnel  for  acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome  (AIDS),  and 
there  were  no  publicly  revealed  statistics  citing  the  incidence  of 
AIDS  within  the  military. 

Before  assignment  to  units,  enlistees  received  almost  a  year  of 
training  under  officers  and  noncommissioned  officers  specially  cho- 
sen for  this  task.  The  long  training  period  was  necessitated  by  the 
high  illiteracy  rate — almost  70  percent  nationally — making  the 
recruitment  of  soldiers  with  anything  beyond  a  rudimentary  edu- 
cation difficult.  Many  recruits  had  to  be  taught  elementary  skills, 
such  as  using  a  telephone  and  driving.  On  the  whole,  soldiers  prob- 
ably were  sufficiently  trained  for  effective  guerrilla  operations  or 
for  combat  in  small  units — the  types  of  warfare  most  likely  to  occur. 


219 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

The  army  supported  a  number  of  schools  scattered  around  the  coun- 
try that  instructed  individual  personnel  and  whole  units  in  special- 
ized skills,  such  as  jungle  operations,  communications,  medicine, 
and  mountain  warfare.  A  limited  number  of  enlisted  personnel  and 
noncommissioned  officers  were  sent  to  India  each  year  for  special- 
ized training  not  offered  in  Nepal. 

Training  for  aid-to-civil-power  duties,  such  as  riot  control,  was 
not  covered  extensively  during  the  training  cycle.  The  military 
generally  preferred  to  let  the  police  perform  such  functions,  which 
most  senior  officers  trained  under  the  British  model  did  not  regard 
as  4 'proper  soldiering."  That  army  personnel  were,  of  necessity, 
becoming  better  acquainted  with  police  tactics  was  suggested  by 
the  increased  use  of  the  army  in  aid-to-civil-power  duties  during 
the  riots  and  protests  that  rocked  the  country  during  the  1990 
prodemocracy  movement,  the  massive  army  deployment  to  pre- 
vent violence  during  the  national  elections  staged  in  May  1991, 
and  the  peacekeeping  experience  acquired  during  service  in 
Lebanon. 

Officer  training  was  modeled  on  that  of  the  Indian  Army.  This 
training,  in  turn,  was  strongly  influenced  by  its  long  association 
with  the  British  military  establishment.  An  Indian  Military  Mis- 
sion arrived  in  Kathmandu  in  1952  soon  after  an  attempted  coup 
to  assist  in  correcting  discipline  problems  and  organizational  defects. 
With  a  staff  of  100  personnel  commanded  by  a  major  general,  the 
mission  implemented  significant  reforms  in  training,  recruitment, 
promotion,  and  virtually  every  aspect  of  military  life.  In  1958  the 
Indian  Military  Mission  was  replaced  by  the  Indian  Military  Train- 
ing and  Advisory  Group  consisting  of  twenty  officers.  This  group 
functioned  in  Kathmandu  until  1963,  when  it  was  renamed  the 
Military  Liaison  Group  and  its  responsibilities  were  reduced  to  liai- 
son work  on  common  defense  problems.  Nepalese  nationalists  com- 
plained, however,  that  the  army's  dependence  on  India  for  military 
training  and  direction  was  repugnant.  Following  significant  rifts 
in  Indo-Nepalese  relations  in  the  late  1960s,  the  Indian  advisory 
group  closed  its  offices  for  good  (see  Relations  with  India,  ch.  4). 
The  only  Indian  military  presence  in  Nepal  in  1991  consisted  of 
a  defense  attache  at  the  high  commission  in  Kathmandu  and  Gur- 
kha recruitment  centers  located  at  Pokhara  and  Dharan.  The  only 
other  countries  with  defense  attaches  posted  to  Kathmandu  in  1991 
were  the  United  States,  Britain,  China,  the  Soviet  Union,  and 
Pakistan. 

Although  Nepalese  officers  still  were  sent  to  India  for  a  variety 
of  advanced  or  specialized  courses  as  of  1991,  basic  officer  train- 
ing for  "gentleman"  recruits  was  conducted  at  the  Royal  Nepal 


220 


Nepal:  National  Security 


Military  Academy  at  Kharipati  near  Kathmandu.  Modeled  after 
the  Indian  Military  Academy  and  Sandhurst,  the  academy  con- 
ducted a  fifteen-month  training  course.  Classes,  usually  number- 
ing between  50  and  100  students,  were  divided  into  four  cadet 
companies  named  after  famous  Nepalese  military  victories.  At  the 
conclusion  of  training,  newly  commissioned  second  lieutenants  were 
assigned  to  units  according  to  their  specialties  and  the  needs  of  the 
army. 

Those  officers  who  showed  promise  for  promotion  to  higher  com- 
mands competed  throughout  their  careers  for  highly  prized  train- 
ing assignments  in  the  United  States,  Britain,  Germany,  India, 
Pakistan,  and  Bangladesh.  Nepalese  officers  were  not  known  ever 
to  have  received  military  training  in  the  Soviet  Union  or  in  East 
European  countries.  A  handful  of  army  personnel  may  have  gone 
to  China  in  1988,  however,  to  train  on  the  air  defense  guns  pur- 
chased by  Nepal  at  that  time.  Chinese  military  advisers  have  never 
been  posted  to  Nepal,  owing,  in  part,  to  Kathmandu 's  awareness 
of  India's  extreme  sensitivity  over  Chinese  activities  in  the  coun- 
try (see  Relations  with  China,  ch.  4). 

Over  the  years,  Nepalese  officers  have  attended  the  United  States 
Army  Command  and  Staff  College  at  Fort  Leavenworth,  Kansas; 
the  Army  War  College  at  Carlisle  Barracks,  Pennsylvania;  and  a 
number  of  other  military  schools  and  institutions.  Most  expenses 
for  this  training  were  covered  by  funds  appropriated  under  the  In- 
ternational Military  Education  Training  (IMET)  program.  The 
program  has  been  open  to  Nepalese  officers  since  1947,  when  Nepal 
and  the  United  States  exchanged  diplomatic  recognition. 

Rank  Structure  and  Insignia 

Royal  Nepal  Army  rank  structure  was,  like  most  other  aspects 
of  military  life,  a  blending  of  British,  Indian,  and  Nepalese  prac- 
tices. Except  for  honorary  military  titles,  most  commissioned  officer 
ranks  were  the  same  as  their  United  States  and  British  equivalents. 
Exceptions  included  the  tides  field  marshal  (equivalent  to  the  United 
States  general  of  the  armies)  and  colonel  in  chief  of  the  army.  As 
of  1991 ,  Nir  Shamsher  Jang  Bahadur  Rana  was  the  only  field  mar- 
shal; Crown  Prince  Dipendra  Bir  Bikram  Shah  Dev  was  the  colonel 
in  chief.  Nepal's  senior  officer  corps  in  1991  numbered  one  gener- 
al, five  major  generals,  and  about  twenty-one  brigadier  generals. 
Officers'  insignia  displayed  a  variety  of  symbols;  all,  however,  bore 
the  emblem  of  the  crossed  kukri  that  identified  Gurkha  soldiers  the 
world  over. 

Between  the  commissioned  officers  and  the  enlisted  ranks  was 
a  separate  category  of  junior  commissioned  officers  QCOs),  who 


221 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


222 


Nepal:  National  Security 


acted  as  a  bridge  between  the  officers  and  their  troops.  Adapted 
from  the  colonial  commissioned  officer  system  of  the  old  British 
Indian  Army,  JCOs  were  roughly  equivalent  to  United  States  Army 
warrant  officers  (although  few  JCOs  were  skilled  technicians).  JCOs 
were  selected  from  noncommissioned  officer  ranks  and  advanced 
through  a  three-tier  ranking  system  (jamadar,  subedar,  and  subedar 
major).  At  the  bottom  of  the  military  hierarchy  were  the  "other 
ranks"  (commonly  referred  to  as  ORs).  These  included  several 
ranks  of  noncommissioned  officers,  sepahis  (or,  the  Anglo-Indian 
corruption,  "sepoys")  and  jawans,  who  together  made  up  the  bulk 
of  the  army  (see  fig.  12).  Although  the  lowest  army  ranks  had  their 
equivalents  in  the  Brigade  of  Gurkhas  and  the  colonial  successor 
armies  of  India,  Pakistan,  and  Bangladesh,  the  Royal  Nepalese 
Army  maintained  a  distinct  nomenclature  not  found  anywhere  else. 

Gurkhas  Serving  Abroad 

Despite  Nepalese  sensitivities  over  domestic  and  foreign  criti- 
cism of  allowing  foreign  armies  to  recruit  "mercenaries"  in  Nepal, 
various  Gurkha  units  continued  to  serve  outside  Nepal  in  the  ear- 
ly 1990s.  The  only  Nepalese-controlled  unit  abroad,  however,  was 
the  Nepalese  army  battalion  posted  to  the  United  Nations  Interim 
Force  in  Lebanon.  Small  Nepalese  contingents  also  have  served 
in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  forces  in  Korea  and  the  Congo 
(now  Zaire).  Unlike  neighboring  states,  such  as  Bangladesh  and 
Pakistan,  Nepal  did  not  contribute  military  personnel  to  the  inter- 
national coalition  that  defeated  Iraqi  forces  and  liberated  Kuwait 
in  the  1991  Operation  Desert  Storm  campaign. 

From  Kathmandu's  perspective,  the  military  and  economic  ad- 
vantages accruing  from  foreign  recruitment  of  Gurkhas  far  out- 
weighed occasional  criticism.  Militarily,  the  presence  of  over 
100,000  trained  and  disciplined  Gurkha  veterans  was  a  valuable 
human  resource.  Service  abroad  widened  their  horizons,  and  mili- 
tary training  and  discipline  taught  them  not  only  how  to  obey,  but 
also  how  to  give  orders.  Many  Gurkhas  gained  specialized  skills 
in  communications  and  engineering  units,  and  most  have  had  some 
training  in  such  practical  subjects  as  sanitation,  hygiene,  agricul- 
ture, and  the  building  trades.  The  Gurkhas  also  played  an  impor- 
tant role  in  the  country's  economy.  The  cash  flow  derived  from 
annual  pensions,  remittances  to  families,  or  monies  taken  home 
in  a  lump  sum  by  discharged  veterans  or  by  service  personnel  on 
leave  represented  a  major  source  of  the  country's  foreign  exchange. 
Remittances  and  pensions  contributed  by  British  Gurkhas  were  es- 
timated in  1991  to  total  over  US$60  million  annually,  or  over  twice 
the  value  of  Britain's  annual  foreign  aid  commitment  to  Nepal. 


223 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Pensions  from  Indian  Gurkhas  also  represented  a  major  revenue 
source.  Gurkhas  returning  from  duty  in  Hong  Kong  also  were  able 
legally  to  import  a  few  kilograms  of  gold  bullion  duty  free. 

In  some  Gurung  villages,  about  half  of  the  families  had  one  or 
more  pensioners.  For  many  families,  hope  of  financial  solvency 
rested  on  their  sons  returning  home  with  a  substantial  sum  saved 
during  a  three-year  enlistment.  Such  income  also  directly  benefit- 
ed the  economy,  as  money  circulated  in  the  purchase  of  consumer 
goods,  the  payment  of  debts,  the  purchase  of  land,  or  investment 
in  small  commercial  ventures. 

The  British  Brigade  of  Gurkhas  was  the  most  famous  unit.  By 
1991  the  brigade  comprised  about  8,000  soldiers — five  infantry  bat- 
talions and  supporting  units — most  of  whom  were  posted  to  Hong 
Kong.  There  was  considerable  uncertainty  over  the  brigade's  fu- 
ture, however.  Cutbacks  in  British  military  commitments  in  Eu- 
rope, coupled  with  plans  to  cede  control  of  Hong  Kong  to  China 
in  1997,  left  the  brigade's  future  in  doubt.  Under  a  proposed 
scheme,  the  brigade  would  be  based  in  Britain  and  would  induct 
fewer  than  150  Nepalese  recruits  annually.  An  informal  lobby  of 
former  Gurkha  regimental  commanders  exerted  tremendous  po- 
litical pressure  whenever  the  British  Parliament  considered  changes 
in  Gurkha  force  structure.  Although  some  Britons  considered  the 
existence  of  foreign-recruited  units  anachronistic  in  a  modern 
sophisticated  army,  much  of  the  British  public  and  defense  estab- 
lishment harbored  strong  sentimental  attachments  to  the  Brigade 
of  Gurkhas. 

As  of  1991,  there  were  more  than  100,000  Gurkhas  serving  in 
over  forty  Indian  infantry  battalions  and  elsewhere  in  the  Indian 
Army.  Their  pay  and  pensions,  though  not  as  generous  as  British 
benefits,  also  represented  a  significant  contribution  to  the  Nepa- 
lese economy.  Almost  all  of  the  Indian  Gurkhas  served  in  ethni- 
cally distinct  regiments  commanded  by  non-Gurkha  officers.  In 
addition,  about  twenty-five  battalions  of  Assam  Rifles,  a  special- 
ized paramilitary  force  descended  from  the  old  British  unit  of  the 
same  name,  were  staffed  almost  exclusively  by  Gurkha  recruits. 
Gurkhas  played  no  appreciable  role  in  Indian  services  other  than 
the  army  and  paramilitary  forces.  As  during  the  British  Raj,  suc- 
cessive Indian  governments  called  upon  Gurkha  regiments  on 
numerous  occasions  to  put  down  domestic  disturbances  that  were 
beyond  the  control  of  local  police.  Ethnically  homogeneous  Gur- 
kha units  often  were  considered  more  reliable  than  mixed  units  that 
might  be  tempted  to  side  with  ethnic  kin  embroiled  in  a  dispute. 

Singapore  has  maintained  a  small  Gurkha  contingent  attached 
to  the  Singapore  Police  since  the  early  1950s.  Composed  entirely 


224 


Nepal:  National  Security 

of  British  Gurkha  veterans  and  commanded  by  British  officers,  the 
contingent  performed  guard  duties  and  assisted  the  local  police  in 
routine  security  chores.  The  sultan  of  Brunei  also  maintained  a 
900-person  Gurkha  Reserve  Unit  equipped  with  light  infantry 
weapons.  As  with  the  Singapore  unit,  the  Brunei  Gurkhas  all  were 
British  Army  veterans.  The  unit  functioned  primarily  as  a  praetori- 
an guard  that  protected  the  sultan — reputedly  the  richest  man  in 
the  world — against  any  internal  or  external  threat  that  might  arise. 

Military  Justice 

The  military  court  system  consisted  basically  of  courts-martial, 
similar  in  composition  and  jurisdiction  to  those  of  the  Indian  Army. 
Courts-martial  were  of  four  kinds:  general,  district,  summary  gener- 
al, and  summary.  A  general  court-martial  was  convened  by  the 
king  or  an  officer  deputized  by  him.  It  consisted  of  five  or  more 
officers,  each  with  three  or  more  years  of  commissioned  service. 
Attending  the  court,  but  not  a  member,  was  an  officer  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  the  Judge  Advocate  General  or  an  officer  designated  by 
the  judge  advocate  general.  The  court  was  authorized  to  impose 
any  sentence  prescribed  by  army  regulations.  A  district  court- 
martial  consisted  of  three  or  more  officers,  each  with  a  minimum 
of  three  years  of  commissioned  service,  and  could  impose  any  sen- 
tence other  than  the  death  penalty.  A  summary  general  court- 
martial  consisted  of  three  or  more  officers,  with  no  requirement 
as  to  the  length  of  their  commissioned  service.  A  summary  court- 
martial  was  convened  by  an  officer  of  the  rank  of  battalion  com- 
mander or  above,  who  acted  as  the  court. 

The  death  sentence,  banned  in  civilian  cases  under  the  1990  con- 
stitution, was  imposed  for  treason,  mutiny,  desertion,  inciting  panic, 
and  surrender  of  troops,  arms,  or  garrisons  to  the  enemy  with  a 
finding  of  cowardice.  Authorized  punishment  for  dereliction  of  mili- 
tary duties  or  regulations  in  time  of  war  generally  was  twice  as  se- 
vere as  that  prescribed  for  the  same  offense  committed  in  peacetime. 
Contact  with  foreign  diplomats  and  attaches,  however  innocuous, 
was  strictly  forbidden.  A  few  high-ranking  officers  in  army  head- 
quarters were  allowed  to  interact  with  foreigners  but  only  on  offi- 
cial matters.  Failure  to  observe  this  rule  could  damage  a  soldier's 
promotion  prospects  or  lead  to  disciplinary  action. 

The  disciplinary  powers  of  officers  and  noncommissioned  officers 
were  more  extensive  than  in  the  United  States  military  service.  Unit 
commanders  could  impose  up  to  thirty  days'  confinement  in  pris- 
on or  restriction  to  barracks.  The  most  common  forms  of  compa- 
ny punishment  included  extra  guard  duty,  suspension  from  duty 
or  from  supervisory  assignments,  fines  of  up  to  fourteen  days'  pay, 


225 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

detention  of  pay  until  a  financial  or  property  loss  was  compensat- 
ed, reprimand,  and  warning.  Junior  commanders  could  demote 
officers  with  the  rank  of  hudda  (sergeant)  or  lower. 

The  Police  System 

Until  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century,  police  and  judicial 
functions  in  many  areas  were  in  the  hands  of  local  princes  (rajas), 
who  were  virtually  autonomous  rulers  of  their  people.  The  central 
government  ruled  outside  the  capital  and  delegated  authority  to 
the  local  governors,  later  known  as  bada  hakim,  who  in  turn  de- 
pended on  village  heads  and  village  councils  to  maintain  order  in 
their  respective  communities.  The  scope  and  intensity  of  police  and 
judicial  activities  varied  largely  with  local  leaders  and  customs.  Caste 
status  and  standing  with  the  authorities  also  gready  influenced  court 
judgments  and  police  attitudes.  Efforts  by  the  central  government 
to  enlarge  its  authority  over  local  affairs  generally  were  regarded 
by  the  isolated  tribal  groups  as  encroachments  on  their  traditional 
independence.  Thus,  old  practices  tended  to  persist  in  the  hinter- 
land despite  changes  in  the  government  and  government  policy  in 
Kathmandu. 

The  Ranas  did  not  establish  a  nationwide  police  system,  although 
Prime  Minister  Chandra  Shamsher  Rana,  who  served  from  1901 
to  1929,  somewhat  modernized  the  police  forces  in  Kathmandu, 
other  large  towns,  and  some  parts  of  the  Tarai.  Police  functions 
in  outlying  areas,  because  of  the  relative  isolation  of  most  com- 
munities, generally  were  limited  to  the  maintenance  of  order  by 
small  detachments  of  the  centrally  controlled  police  personnel  sup- 
plemented by  a  few  locally  recruited  police. 

Following  the  anti-Rana  revolt  that  began  in  1950,  the  govern- 
ment began  to  modernize  the  police  system  and  improve  its  effec- 
tiveness. Assistance  was  requested  from  India,  and  an  Indian  police 
official  was  sent  to  Kathmandu  to  help  reorganize  the  police  force. 
Some  Nepalese  police  were  sent  to  police  training  academies  in 
India. 

Nepal's  police  system  in  the  early  1990s  owed  its  modern  ori- 
gins to  the  Nepal  Police  Act,  enacted  by  King  Mahendra  in  1955. 
Besides  denning  police  duties  and  functions,  the  act  effected  a  gener- 
al reduction  in  the  size  of  the  police  force  and  a  complete  reorgani- 
zation of  its  administrative  structure  along  Indian  lines. 

In  accordance  with  the  Nepal  Police  Act,  Nepal  was  divided  into 
three  geographical  zones  (sometimes  called  "ranges"  in  Indian 
parlance).  Each  of  the  zonal  headquarters,  under  a  deputy  inspec- 
tor general  of  police,  was  responsible  for  several  subsections  com- 
posed of  four  or  five  police  districts  operating  under  a  superintendent 


226 


Nepal:  National  Security 


of  police.  A  district  superintendent  was  in  charge  of  the  police  sta- 
tions in  his  area.  Each  station  normally  was  supervised  by  a  head 
constable  who  was  in  charge  of  several  constables  performing  ba- 
sic police  functions,  such  as  crime  investigations  and  arrests.  Each 
constable  was  customarily  responsible  for  three  or  four  villages. 

Under  the  constitution,  law  and  order  at  the  district  level  con- 
tinues to  be  the  responsibility  of  the  chief  district  officer,  who  is 
selected  from  among  senior  cadre  civil  servants  under  the  Minis- 
try of  Home  Affairs.  Other  district  administrative  officers  work 
in  coordination  with  the  chief  district  officer.  Despite  the  abolition 
of  the  panchayat  (see  Glossary)  system,  no  significantly  different  al- 
ternative system  had  emerged  as  of  mid- 1991 .  During  the  interim, 
village  and  municipal  development  committees,  consisting  of  per- 
sons nominated  by  chief  district  officers,  replaced  village  and  town 
panchayat,  which  had  exercised  administrative  and  some  quasi- 
judicial  functions  at  the  local  level.  At  the  local  level,  maintenance 
of  law  and  order  is  the  responsibility  of  the  chowki  hawaldar  (local 
police  officer),  who  reports  to  the  thana  (station  inspector).  All  lo- 
cal police  officers  work  under  the  supervision  of  the  chief  district 
officer. 

At  the  apex  of  the  system  was  the  Nepalese  Police  Force,  cen- 
trally administered  by  the  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs.  The  Central 
Police  Headquarters,  commanded  by  the  inspector  general  of  the 
Nepalese  Police  Force,  had  a  criminal  investigation  division;  in- 
telligence, counter-intelligence,  motor  transport  and  radio  sections; 
a  traffic  policy  branch;  and  a  central  training  center. 

The  police  system  formerly  had  been  overseen  by  the  king  and 
his  advisers,  with  little  or  no  public  accountability.  Under  the 
partyless  panchayat  system,  the  public  generally  regarded  the  police 
as  instruments  of  the  king  and  his  local  political  supporters.  Nepalese 
police  were  poorly  paid  and  poorly  trained,  even  by  Nepalese 
standards. 

The  administration  of  justice  was  often  arbitrary  and,  accord- 
ing to  international  human  rights  organization,  brutal.  A  1989  Unit- 
ed States  congressional  report  on  human  rights  in  Nepal  noted 
"continuing  reports  of  beatings  and  other  brutal  treatment  of 
prisoners  by  police  officials,  particularly  in  rural  areas."  The  report 
also  noted  that  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention  were  ''com- 
mon. .  .  .  Because  communication  links  in  Nepal  are  limited,  local 
officials  have  a  great  deal  of  autonomy  and  exercise  wide  discre- 
tion in  handling  law  and  order  issues." 

Although  the  Nepalese  police  system  in  the  early  1990s  still  was 
generally  regarded  as  inefficient  and  corrupt,  most  observers  believed 
that  Nepal's  transition  from  a  feudal  monarchy  to  a  parliamentary 


227 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

democracy  had  greatly  improved  the  chances  for  police  reform  and 
the  curtailing  of  human  rights  abuses  by  the  police.  As  in  the  case 
of  the  army,  police  loyalties  were  severely  tested  during  the  1990 
nationwide  prodemocracy  movement.  Although  acting  under  the 
guidance  of  the  palace,  the  police  generally  did  not  take  sides  in 
the  political  standoff.  Even  though  police  excesses  occurred,  force 
discipline  did  not  break  down. 

Shortly  after  his  election  to  office,  Prime  Minister  G.P.  Koirala 
pledged  that  improving  law  and  order  and  protecting  human  rights 
would  be  his  administration's  top  priorities.  Koirala' s  critics  not- 
ed, however,  that  his  tough  law-and-order  stance  was  intended  less 
to  promote  human  rights  reforms  and  more  as  a  political  signal 
to  communist  elements  threatening  to  mount  street  protests  against 
the  new  democratic  government.  In  April  1991,  Nepal  acceded  to 
the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights  and  the 
Convention  Against  Torture  and  Other  Cruel,  Inhuman,  or  De- 
grading Treatment. 

State-supported  penal  institutions,  including  the  central  prison 
in  Kathmandu  and  jails  in  most  district  capitals,  had  long  been 
targets  of  considerable  criticism  on  the  part  of  human  rights  ac- 
tivists. According  to  various  reports  on  human  rights,  prison  con- 
ditions were  unsanitary  and  degrading.  Prisoners  were  segregated 
into  three  categories.  Class  C  prisons,  the  lowest  and  most  numerous 
type  of  prison,  were  populated  with  common  criminals  who  often 
were  subjected  to  beatings  and  abuse  at  the  hands  of  police  jailers. 
The  higher  prison  categories  were  reserved  for  persons  with  polit- 
ical connections  or  higher  social  status.  Conditions  in  these  facili- 
ties generally  were  better  than  in  Class  C  prisons.  Women  were 
incarcerated  separately  from  men  although  in  equally  poor  condi- 
tions. Mentally  ill  persons  often  were  placed  in  jails  because  most 
communities  lacked  other,  more  appropriate,  long-term  care  fa- 
cilities. In  an  effort  to  address  some  of  these  problems,  the  Koira- 
la government  shifted  prison  administration  and  management  from 
the  police  to  the  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs  shortly  after  assuming 
office  in  1990. 

The  Judicial  System 

The  Legal  Code 

The  judicial  system  initiated  under  the  Ranas,  despite  some  limited 
reforms,  remained  traditional  in  character  in  the  early  1990s.  The 
Muluki  Ain  of  1854,  the  legal  code  introduced  by  the  first  Rana 
prime  minister,  Jang  Bahadur  Rana,  combined  ancient  Hindu 
sanctions  and  customary  law  and  common  laws  modeled  on  the 


228 


Nepal:  National  Security 


British  and  Indian  codes  with  the  rules  of  behavior  that  had  evolved 
over  the  centuries  among  the  Newars  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley 
(see  The  Kot  Massacre,  ch.  1). 

The  Muluki  Ain  was  amended  several  times  and  was  complete- 
ly revised  in  1963.  Over  the  years,  the  Muluki  Ain  blended  royal 
edicts,  proclamations,  and  piecemeal  legislation.  The  entire  cor- 
pus of  law  was  consolidated  in  a  compilation  called  the  Ain  San- 
graha.  Customs  were  applied  in  the  absence  of  legislative  provisions 
or  judicial  procedures. 

The  revised  code  sought  to  promote  social  harmony  and  declared 
all  persons  theoretically  equal  in  the  eyes  of  the  law,  thus  ending 
legal  discrimination  based  on  caste,  creed,  and  sex.  The  code  grant- 
ed the  right  to  divorce,  permitted  intercaste  marriages,  and 
abolished  the  laws  sanctioning  untouchability.  These  provisions 
were  drafted  at  the  behest  of  the  king.  A  uniform  family  law  was 
applicable  to  all  religious  communities  and  was  contained  in  the 
Muluki  Ain.  When  the  code  was  silent,  however,  the  custom  of 
the  particular  community  applied.  The  code  remained  the  exist- 
ing substantive  law  in  1991. 

The  Court  System 

The  official  text  of  the  Muluki  Ain  was  published  in  Nepali;  few 
statutes  were  available  in  English.  Statutes  were  cited  by  the  years 
of  enactment.  The  Nepal  Raj  Patra,  the  government  gazette,  issued 
at  irregular  intervals,  published  all  new  legislation.  Official  texts 
of  Supreme  Court  decisions  were  published  monthly  in  the  Nepal 
Kanoon  Patriki,  the  Nepalese  law  journal,  which  also  contained  the 
official  texts  of  new  legislation  and  articles  on  legal  topics.  The  Nepal 
Act  Series,  published  by  the  Law  Book  Management  Board  in  Kath- 
mandu, by  arrangement  with  government  ministries,  was  a  com- 
pilation of  all  Nepalese  laws  and  statutes. 

Under  the  vague  instrument  of  the  Muluki  Ain  prior  to  its  1963 
revision,  magistrates  and  justices  had  wide  latitude  in  deciding  cases 
according  to  their  own  interpretations.  There  was  a  motive  for  cau- 
tion, however,  in  the  provision  that  if  a  higher  court  reversed  the 
decision  of  a  lower  court,  the  magistrate  of  the  lower  court  was 
liable  to  a  fine,  corporal  punishment,  or  even  execution.  Court 
procedures  varied  greatly.  The  accuser  was  placed  in  jail  along  with 
the  accused.  Writs  of  habeas  corpus  were  not  issued.  Prisoners  often 
waited  many  months  before  trial.  The  onus  of  proof  of  innocence 
rested  on  the  accused,  who  was  tried  without  a  jury. 

Under  the  rules,  no  one  could  be  convicted  of  a  criminal  charge 
without  a  confession,  but  confessions  were  commonly  extracted  by 
torture.  The  Rana  courts  had  both  executive  and  judicial  powers, 


229 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

and  the  prime  minister  was  the  supreme  judicial  authority  whose 
decision  on  a  given  case  was  final. 

Reforms  enacted  under  the  constitution  of  1948  and  in  the  first 
years  following  the  1 95 1  overthrow  of  Rana  rule  modernized  many 
features  of  the  feudal-based  legal  system.  The  prime  minister  was 
divested  of  judicial  powers  and  no  longer  functioned  as  the  highest 
court  of  appeal.  The  Supreme  Court  Act  of  1952  established  the 
Supreme  Court  as  the  highest  judicial  body,  with  powers  and  struc- 
ture corresponding  generally  to  those  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  In- 
dia. Special  traveling  courts  were  organized  and  were  sent  into  the 
districts  to  provide  citizens  easier  access  to  the  legal  system.  These 
courts  were  empowered  to  audit  public  accounts,  hear  complaints 
of  all  kinds,  make  arrests,  hold  trials,  and  impose  sentences.  An 
important  step  toward  a  unified  judicial  system  came  in  1956  with 
the  establishment,  mostly  in  the  Tarai,  of  a  series  of  district  courts 
that  heard  civil  and  criminal  cases.  Appeals  courts  were  set  up  in 
Kathmandu.  The  1962  Panchayat  Constitution  stipulated  that  the 
king  was  solely  responsible  for  appointing  judges  and  providing 
judicial  overview. 

Under  the  Panchayat  Constitution,  the  court  system  was  head- 
ed by  the  Supreme  Court,  composed  of  a  chief  justice,  nine  judges, 
and  a  small  secretarial  staff.  Below  the  Supreme  Court  were  four- 
teen zonal  courts,  which,  in  turn,  oversaw  seventy-five  district  courts 
throughout  the  country.  All  the  lower  courts  had  both  civil  and 
criminal  jurisdiction.  Although  the  judiciary  technically  was  in- 
dependent, in  practice  the  courts  never  were  assertive  in  challeng- 
ing the  king  or  his  ministers. 

The  constitution  promulgated  in  1990  reorganized  the  judiciary, 
reduced  the  king's  judicial  prerogatives,  and  made  the  system  more 
responsive  to  elected  officials.  Under  the  new  system,  the  king  ap- 
pointed the  chief  justice  of  the  Supreme  Court  and  the  other  judges 
(no  more  than  fourteen)  of  that  court  on  the  recommendation  of 
the  Judicial  Council.  Below  the  Supreme  Court,  the  constitution 
established  fifty-four  appellate  courts  and  numerous  district  courts. 
The  judges  of  the  appellate  and  district  courts  also  were  appointed 
by  the  king  on  the  recommendation  of  the  Judicial  Council.  The 
Judicial  Council,  established  in  the  wake  of  the  prodemocracy  move- 
ment and  incorporated  into  the  constitution,  monitored  the  court 
system's  performance  and  advised  the  king  and  his  elected  govern- 
ment on  judicial  matters  and  appointments.  Council  membership 
consisted  of  the  chief  justice  of  the  Supreme  Court,  the  minister 
of  justice,  the  two  most  senior  judges  of  the  Supreme  Court,  and 
a  distinguished  judicial  scholar.  All  lower  court  decisions,  includ- 
ing acquittals,  were  subject  to  appeal.  The  Supreme  Court  was 


230 


Nepal:  National  Security 


the  court  of  last  resort,  but  the  king  retained  the  right  to  grant 
pardons  and  suspend,  commute,  or  remit  any  sentence  levied  by 
any  court. 

The  new  judicial  system  still  was  in  its  infancy  as  of  1991 .  Some 
observers  noted  that  judicial  appointments  had  remained  a  source 
of  patronage  by  which  the  elected  government  rewarded  its  sup- 
porters. Others  feared  that  Nepal  lacked  the  legal  resources  to  staff 
an  expanding  and  modern  judicial  system.  The  growing  backlog 
of  legal  cases,  many  of  them  initiated  during  the  1990  prodemocracy 
upheaval,  also  threatened  to  overwhelm  the  system.  Despite  these 
drawbacks,  however,  most  observers  of  the  legal  system  felt  the 
changes  were  forward-looking  and  progressive. 

The  Security  Environment 

Throughout  its  modern  existence,  Nepalese  foreign  policy  ar- 
chitects and  defense  planners  have  had  to  perform  a  precarious 
balancing  act  to  ensure  the  nation's  survival.  As  a  protective  mea- 
sure, foreign  troops  were  not  allowed  to  be  based  in  Nepal.  This 
restriction  remained  in  force  as  of  1991.  Neither  China  nor  India 
harbored  territorial  ambitions  in  Nepal;  indeed,  unlike  many  other 
land  boundaries  in  South  Asia,  Nepal's  frontiers  were  regarded 
by  India  and  China  as  valid  international  boundaries.  Nor  did 
Nepal  possess  any  natural  resources  or  other  economic  assets  that 
were  coveted  by  either  neighbor.  Nevertheless,  the  country's  geo- 
strategic  position  between  China's  restive  Tibetan  population  and 
the  Indian  heartland  placed  it  in  a  vulnerable  position. 

Terrain,  weather,  and  logistic  considerations  presented  special 
problems  for  defense  planners  and  for  any  foreign  forces  that  might 
have  to  operate  in  the  country.  Ground  units  had  to  be  equipped 
to  cope  with  climatic  extremes  of  monsoonal  rains  and  drought  as 
well  as  jungle  heat  and  high-altitude  cold.  Nepal's  terrain  ranged 
from  the  world's  highest  and  most  deeply  gorged  mountains  to  the 
swamps  and  dense  jungles  of  the  Tarai  (see  The  Land,  ch.  2). 
Troops  operating  in  Nepal  had  ample  cover,  but  cross-country 
movement  was  extremely  difficult.  The  use  of  motor  transport — 
often  in  short  supply  in  the  Nepalese  army — was  impractical  ex- 
cept for  the  short  stretches  where  roads  existed.  Further,  many  roads 
and  bridges  were  unsuitable  for  heavy  military  vehicles.  In  the 
higher  elevations,  supplies  were  moved  by  pack  animals  or  human 
porters.  Throughout  the  country,  the  terrain  lent  itself  to  the  am- 
bush and  hit-and-run  tactics  that  Nepalese  units  would  employ  dur- 
ing a  partisan  struggle.  Thus,  local  inhabitants  familiar  with  the 
countryside  and  accustomed  to  its  severe  climatic  conditions  would 
have  a  decided  tactical  advantage  over  invading  forces. 


231 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

In  the  lowlands,  ground  movement  was  virtually  impossible  dur- 
ing the  wet  season  because  of  extensive  flooding,  washed-out 
bridges,  and  deep  mud.  In  the  mountains,  troops  had  to  march 
single  file  over  precarious  trails  subject  to  washouts,  landslides, 
avalanches  of  boulders,  ice,  and  snow.  Stream  crossing  points  often 
were  limited  to  fords  and  unstable  suspension  bridges.  Supply  drops 
by  helicopters  and  airplanes — both  critically  short  in  the  Nepalese 
army — could  be  made  only  in  favorable  weather  and  in  the  restrict- 
ed areas  accessible  to  troops.  Tribhuvan  International  Airport  out- 
side Kathmandu  was  the  country's  only  airfield  with  sufficient 
capacity  for  large-scale  military  airlift  and  resupply  operations.  The 
airport's  refueling  capacity  and  aircraft  maintenance  facilities  were 
marginal,  however.  Only  five  of  Nepal's  thirty-eight  airfields  had 
permanent-surface  runways. 

Tropical  diseases,  such  as  malaria,  and  the  danger  of  suffering 
pulmonary  edema  and  frostbite  during  high- altitude  operations  fur- 
ther inhibited  force  sustainability.  Medical  equipment  and  supplies, 
most  of  which  were  imported  from  India,  also  were  in  short  sup- 
ply. Water  supplies,  although  usually  available  in  all  but  the  most 
mountainous  regions,  often  were  contaminated  and  unfit  for  hu- 
man consumption  unless  treated.  Although  army  medical  services 
were  adequate  for  routine  peacetime  health  care  of  soldiers  and 
their  families,  sustained  combat  operations  probably  would  over- 
whelm the  country's  underdeveloped  health  services.  The  army's 
premier  medical  facility,  Birendra  Hospital,  was  located  in  Kath- 
mandu. As  food  production  in  most  areas  was  barely  sufficient  to 
support  the  local  population,  wartime  destruction  of  the  agricul- 
tural infrastructure,  particularly  in  the  fertile  Kathmandu  Valley, 
would  be  likely  to  result  in  shortages  and  famine  unless  India  or 
other  foreign  donors  provided  immediate  emergency  relief. 

India 

Although  landlocked  Nepal  was  surrounded  by  both  India  and 
China,  the  kingdom's  geographic,  economic,  and  cultural  orien- 
tation was  more  closely  linked  to  India.  Whereas  many  Nepalese 
stressed  the  differences  that  defined  Nepal's  national  existence,  In- 
dia's policy  makers  tended  to  stress  the  similarities  that  bound  the 
two  countries  together.  According  to  New  Delhi's  perception,  South 
Asia  constituted  an  integral  security  unit  in  which  India  played 
the  lead  role.  Many  Nepalese  resented  this  interpretation  and  ac- 
cused India  of  being  insensitive  to  Nepal's  status  as  an  indepen- 
dent nation. 

Despite  New  Delhi's  insistence  that  stable,  independent  neigh- 
bors were  vital  to  India's  security,  many  Nepalese  regarded  India 


232 


Nepal:  National  Security 


as  a  regional  bully.  Because  of  these  differing  attitudes,  Nepal's 
relations  with  India  oscillated  considerably  over  the  years,  partic- 
ularly in  matters  relating  to  security. 

In  a  speech  before  Parliament  in  1950,  the  Indian  prime  minister, 
Jawaharlal  Nehru,  summed  up  India's  security  concerns  vis-a-vis 
Nepal.  He  stated:  "From  time  immemorial,  the  Himalayas  have 
provided  us  with  magnificent  frontiers.  .  .  .  We  cannot  allow  that 
barrier  to  be  penetrated,  because  it  is  also  the  principal  barrier  to 
India.  Therefore,  as  much  as  we  appreciate  the  independence  of 
Nepal,  we  cannot  allow  anything  to  go  wrong  in  Nepal  or  permit 
that  barrier  to  be  crossed  or  weakened,  because  that  would  be  a 
risk  to  our  own  security."  Nehru  and  his  successors  subsequently 
stated  that  any  Chinese  attack  on  Nepal  would  be  regarded  as  ag- 
gression against  India. 

In  1950  China  forcibly  annexed  Tibet,  which  New  Delhi  regarded 
as  a  buffer  zone  shielding  the  subcontinent  from  real  or  potential 
Chinese  incursions.  Nepal  thus  came  to  play  a  much  larger  role 
in  India's  security  calculations.  Fearing  that  China  might  eventu- 
ally subvert  or  invade  Nepal,  India  signed  a  Treaty  of  Peace  and 
Friendship  with  the  Rana  regime  in  1950.  Although  not  a  formal 
military  alliance,  the  treaty  required  both  parties  to  consult  and 
"devise  effective  countermeasures"  in  the  event  of  a  security  threat 
to  either  country.  Nepal's  inclusion  in  the  Indian  defense  perimeter 
was  made  explicit  by  an  exchange  of  secret  letters — later  made 
public — that  accompanied  the  treaty,  stating  inter  alia  that  "neither 
government  shall  tolerate  any  threat  to  the  security  of  the  other 
by  a  foreign  aggressor."  To  assuage  Nepalese  fears  of  Indian  domi- 
nation, the  treaty  also  stipulated  that  Indian  forces  could  be  in- 
troduced into  the  country  only  at  the  invitation  of  the  Nepalese 
government.  The  two  sides  simultaneously  signed  a  trade  and  transit 
agreement  that  extended  reciprocal  rights  with  regard  to  bilateral 
trade  and  residential  arrangements  as  well  as  transshipment  of 
Nepalese  goods  through  India. 

In  1952  the  Indian  Military  Mission  arrived  in  Kathmandu  to 
reorganize  Nepal's  armed  forces  and  bring  the  kingdom's  defenses 
more  in  line  with  India's  security  requirements.  In  implementing 
changes,  Nepal  drastically  reduced  the  size  of  its  postwar  army  and 
revamped  its  training  and  organization  along  Indian  lines.  Indian 
advisers  also  played  key  roles  in  training  the  civil  service  and  police 
force.  Many  Nepalese — military  officers  and  civil  servants,  in 
particular — were  outraged  by  India's  actions,  which  they  saw  as 
an  insult  to  national  self-respect.  Indian  influence  was  further 
strengthened,  however,  by  the  cooperation  of  both  countries'  mili- 
taries on  several  occasions  in  the  1950s,  when  at  Nepal's  request 


233 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Indian  troops  helped  quell  disturbances  near  their  common  bound- 
ary. As  Sino-Indian  tensions  mounted  in  the  late  1950s,  Indian 
soldiers  and  technicians  assisted  in  staffing  some  of  the  checkposts 
on  the  frontier  with  Tibet.  Despite  close  military  ties,  Nepal, 
however,  has  never  allowed  garrisoning  of  Indian  troops  or  joint 
military  exercises  in  the  country. 

In  1962  Indian  and  Chinese  forces  fought  a  brief  but  decisive 
war  over  desolate  stretches  of  their  disputed  frontier.  India's  unpre- 
pared forces  suffered  a  humiliating  defeat,  despite  the  fact  that  Chi- 
na unilaterally  withdrew  its  forces  after  several  weeks  of  heavy 
fighting.  Although  Nepal  did  not  become  embroiled  in  the  fight- 
ing and  both  belligerents  respected  the  kingdom's  territorial  in- 
tegrity, the  war  reinforced  Nepalese  perceptions  of  their  country's 
perilous  role  as  a  Sino-Indian  security  buffer. 

Because  of  India's  growing  influence  and  Nepal's  correspond- 
ing dependence  on  India,  international  diplomacy  has  always  been 
a  vital  element  of  Nepal's  survival  strategy.  Nepal  was  an  active 
participant  and  a  voice  of  moderation  in  the  United  Nations  (UN) 
and  the  Nonaligned  Movement,  although  the  viability  of  the  lat- 
ter organization  was  in  doubt  after  the  end  of  the  Cold  War  (see 
International  and  Regional  Organizations,  ch.  4).  In  addition, 
Nepal  firmly  supported  the  South  Asian  Association  for  Regional 
Cooperation  (SAARC — see  Glossary)  headquartered  in  Kathman- 
du.  SAARC  eschewed  any  role  in  regional  security  because  the 
threats  perceived  by  Nepal  and  the  other  small  states  of  the  region 
were  often  at  variance  with  those  perceived  by  India. 

In  1975  King  Birendra  proposed  that  the  UN  declare  Nepal  a 
zone  of  peace,  where  military  competition  would  be  off-limits.  In 
Birendra' s  view,  the  proposal  symbolized  Nepal's  desire  to  main- 
tain cordial  relations  with  both  its  neighbors  by  placing  interna- 
tionally sanctioned  restrictions  on  the  use  of  military  force  (see 
Foreign  Policy,  ch.  4). 

Nepalese-Indian  relations  underwent  major  jolts  over  a  protracted 
period  starting  in  1988.  In  June  of  that  year,  Birendra  concluded 
a  secret  arms  purchase  with  China,  whereby  Beijing  would  supply 
obsolescent  air  defense  artillery  at  bargain  prices.  India  probably 
learned  of  the  deal  within  days  or  weeks  of  the  agreement  and  pro- 
tested vigorously  that  Birendra's  action  had  violated  the  spirit,  if 
not  the  letter,  of  the  1950  treaty.  Although  the  appearance  of  a 
limited  number  of  vintage  air  defense  weapons  hardly  represented 
a  threat  to  Indian  Air  Force  contingency  plans,  India  interpreted  the 
sale  as  a  dangerous  precedent  that  could  not  go  unchallenged.  As 
bilateral  tensions  mounted,  India  added  other  complaints  regarding 
Nepal's  supposed  insensitivity  to  India's  vital  interests.  Birendra, 


234 


Nepal:  National  Security 


capitalizing  on  nationalistic  fervor,  was  intransigent  and  insisted 
that  Nepal  had  the  sovereign  right  to  determine  its  own  defense 
requirements.  He  also  pointed  out  that  Nepal's  use  of  air  defense 
assets  against  India  would  never  arise  as  long  as  Indian  fighters 
respected  Nepalese  air  space;  New  Delhi  countered  that  the  only 
plausible  use  for  the  weapons  was  against  India. 

In  March  1989,  the  Nepal-India  trade  and  transit  agreement 
came  up  for  renewal.  India's  prime  minister,  Rajiv  Gandhi,  refused 
to  extend  the  agreement  unless  Nepal  agreed  to  meet  India's  com- 
mercial and  defense  concerns.  After  both  sides  refused  to  back  down, 
India  allowed  the  agreement  to  lapse  and  closed  thirteen  of  the 
fifteen  border  checkposts  that  regulated  most  of  Nepal's  trade  with 
the  outside  world.  The  blockade  was  a  severe  blow  to  Nepal.  The 
Chinese  rail  line  in  Tibet  ended  800  kilometers  short  of  the  Nepa- 
lese border,  and  the  road  linking  Kathmandu  and  Tibet  was  closed 
much  of  the  year  by  avalanches  and  monsoon  landslides.  The  Nepa- 
lese army  was  pressed  into  action  to  keep  Nepal's  section  of  the 
road  open  to  the  extent  possible.  Pakistan  and  Bangladesh  were 
hardly  in  a  position  to  supply  major  assistance  because  their  only 
land  routes  to  Nepal  traversed  India.  The  Soviet  Union,  the  United 
States,  and  other  Western  powers  quiedy  declined  to  take  sides  and 
urged  India  and  Nepal  to  return  to  the  bargaining  table. 

In  the  final  analysis,  the  dispute  underscored  a  central  geopolit- 
ical reality:  landlocked  Nepal  did  not  have  the  military,  diplomat- 
ic, or  economic  clout  to  withstand  an  Indian  blockade  as  long  as 
the  government  in  New  Delhi  was  willing  to  risk  international  op- 
probrium and  press  its  case  against  the  kingdom.  Many  Nepalese 
saw  New  Delhi's  actions  as  "punishment"  for  Birendra's  show  of 
independence  and  as  a  manifestation  of  India's  supposed  policy 
of  isolating  and  subjugating  its  smaller  neighbors.  Some  Nepalese 
observers,  however,  criticized  Birendra's  handling  of  the  dispute, 
arguing  that  the  king  harnessed  popular  fervor  against  India  to  rally 
patriotic  support  behind  the  palace. 

Some  fifteen  months  of  economic  dislocations  and  diplomatic 
recriminations  placed  heavy  pressure  on  both  sides  to  halt  the  slide 
in  relations.  Finally,  both  sides  reaffirmed  the  1950  treaty,  and 
Kathmandu  agreed  not  to  purchase  defense  items  abroad  without 
consulting  New  Delhi.  Birendra  requested  that  China  stop  deliv- 
ery of  a  final  shipment  of  air  defense  equipment.  Relations  gradu- 
ally returned  to  normal  and  improved  significantly  after  Nepal's 
democratically  elected  government  assumed  office  in  May  1 99 1 . 
The  dispute  convinced  many  Nepalese,  however,  that  India  had 
the  capacity  and  will  to  pressure  small  neighbors  in  pursuit  of  its 


235 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

foreign  policy  objectives — a  message  that  New  Delhi  clearly  intend- 
ed to  convey  to  Beijing. 

China 

Nepal's  security  relations  with  China  dated  at  least  as  far  back 
as  the  eighteenth  century.  In  the  nineteenth  century,  Nepal  gained 
the  upper  hand  over  Tibet,  then  a  semiautonomous  vassal  state 
of  China.  In  the  latter  part  of  the  twentieth  century,  however, 
Nepal's  dealings  with  China  generally  had  been  kept  on  an  even 
keel,  except  when  India  expressed  strong  disapproval,  as  in  the 
aftermath  of  China's  1988  sale  of  air  defense  weapons  to  Nepal. 

The  earliest  defense  pact  with  China  was  the  Sino-Nepalese 
Treaty  of  1792,  signed  after  the  Chinese  had  defeated  the  forces 
of  the  Gorkha  kingdom  at  Nawakot,  some  seven  kilometers  north- 
west of  modern  Kathmandu.  Under  this  treaty,  the  signatories 
agreed  that  they  would  regard  China  as  a  "father"  to  them  and 
affirmed  their  understanding  that  China  would  come  to  the  aid 
of  Nepal  should  it  ever  be  invaded  by  a  foreign  power — although 
no  such  assistance  occurred  during  the  Anglo-Nepalese  War  of 
1814-16  (see  The  Enclosing  of  Nepal,  ch.  1).  In  the  mid-nineteenth 
century,  however,  forces  from  the  kingdom  of  Gorkha  were  on  the 
move  northward.  The  Nepalese-Tibetan  Treaty  of  Thapathali, 
signed  in  1856  at  the  conclusion  of  a  successful  two-year  campaign 
in  Tibet,  stipulated  that  Tibet  pay  annual  tribute  to  Nepal  and 
grant  certain  extraterritorial  rights  to  Nepalese  traders.  It  also 
pledged  a  mutual  policy  of  nonaggression,  and  China  agreed  to 
come  to  Nepal's  assistance  should  Nepal  be  invaded  by  the  forces 
of  "any  other  prince."  A  century  later,  in  September  1956,  the 
agreement  was  replaced  by  a  treaty  of  amity  and  commerce  with 
China's  new  communist  regime,  ending  Nepal's  tributary  income 
and  extraterritorial  privileges. 

Although  China  offered  to  sign  nonaggression  or  mutual  defense 
pacts  with  Nepal,  the  kingdom  always  turned  down  the  offers  in 
deference  to  Indian  sensitivities.  In  the  1950s,  Nepal's  anticom- 
munist  rulers,  spurred  on  by  Indian  advisers,  regarded  China  as 
a  potential  threat  and  enacted  various  military  reforms  and  laws 
to  combat  Chinese  propaganda  and  subversion.  In  1961  King  Ma- 
hendra  visited  Beijing  and  signed  an  agreement  to  construct  a  high- 
way, named  the  Arniko  Highway,  from  Kathmandu  to  Kodari  on 
the  Tibetan  border.  As  of  1991,  this  highway  remained  the  only 
major  artery  linking  the  two  countries.  Nepal  generally  preferred 
to  keep  relations  with  China  low-key  to  avoid  offending  India.  The 
1988  decision  to  purchase  Chinese  air  defense  weapons  was  a  glaring 
exception  to  this  rule. 


236 


Royal  Nepal  Army 
soldier  at  the  gate 
of  the  old 
royal  palace, 
Kathmandu 
Courtesy 
Harvey  Follender 


Internal  Security  Considerations 

Nepalese  police,  backed  from  time  to  time  by  the  army,  combat 
routine  crimes  in  addition  to  monitoring  numerous  political  strikes 
and  demonstrations.  The  incidence  of  organized  political  violence  was 
low,  however.  Nepal  was  not  a  fertile  breeding  ground  for  interna- 
tional terrorism  because  most  political  violence  was  committed  by 
Nepalese  dissidents  to  further  their  own  domestic  political  agendas. 

In  the  mid-1980s,  small  antimonarchist  and  communist  groups 
conducted  a  series  of  bombings  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley  to  drama- 
tize their  opposition  to  Birendra's  rule.  In  June  1984,  clandestine 
Maoist  bands  such  as  the  Samyuktha  Mukti  Bahini  (Socialist  Liber- 
ation Army),  the  Democratic  Front,  and  the  United  Liberation 
Torch  Bearers  mounted  a  campaign  of  bombings  and  assassina- 
tions intended  to  spark  a  revolution.  Their  actions  had  the  oppo- 
site effect,  however,  as  moderate  opposition  politicians  condemned 
the  violence  and  rallied  around  the  king.  The  opposition  civil  dis- 
obedience campaign  was  called  off,  and  the  Rashtriya  Panchayat 
passed  a  stringent  antiterrorist  ordinance  to  put  down  the  threat. 
By  August  1984,  over  1,000  suspected  terrorists  and  sympathizers 
were  imprisoned  under  provisions  of  antiterrorist  legislation  promul- 
gated by  the  king. 

The  following  year,  another  bombing  in  downtown  Kathmandu 
killed  eight  persons  and  wounded  twenty-two  others.  The  sensational 


237 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

crime  was  perpetrated  by  the  Jan  Morcha  (People's  Front),  a  Tarai- 
based  antimonarchist  group  with  ties  to  political  thugs  in  the  Indi- 
an border  states  of  Uttar  Pradesh  and  Bihar.  Several  Jan  Morcha 
leaders  who  fled  to  India  were  convicted  of  the  bombing  in  absen- 
tia. In  June  1991,  following  the  installation  of  the  Nepali  Congress 
Party  government,  King  Birendra  pardoned  the  exiled  terrorists 
as  a  gesture  of  political  goodwill. 

The  ethnic  tensions  that  spilled  across  Nepal's  international 
boundaries  also  posed  security  and  foreign  policy  problems.  In  1987 
the  Nepalese  minority  residing  in  the  mountainous  northern  dis- 
tricts of  the  Indian  state  of  West  Bengal  mounted  a  violent  agita- 
tion demanding  statehood  within  the  Indian  union  for  Indian 
citizens  of  Nepalese  origins.  The  standard  bearer  of  the  campaign 
was  the  Gorkha  National  Liberation  Front  led  by  Subhas  Ghis- 
ing,  a  former  noncommissioned  officer  in  an  Indian  Gurkha  regi- 
ment. The  communist  state  government  of  West  Bengal  complained 
of  Nepalese  collusion  with  the  agitators  after  Ghising  openly  solicited 
Kathmandu's  support  and  called  on  Gurkhas  in  the  Indian  Army 
to  back  the  demand  for  a  separate  "Gorkhaland."  The  situation 
worsened  when  Indian  police  crossed  the  Nepalese  border  while 
pursuing  Gurkha  militants.  Although  Kathmandu  probably  was 
sympathetic  to  the  plight  of  the  Nepalese  minority,  any  appear- 
ance of  support  for  the  statehood  agitation  was  scrupulously  avoided 
for  fear  of  angering  New  Delhi.  Official  Nepalese  support  for  the 
movement  never  was  proven.  By  1991  the  Gorkhaland  agitation 
had  subsided  after  New  Delhi,  West  Bengal,  and  Gurkha  militants 
negotiated  a  political  settlement  that  fell  short  of  statehood. 

In  the  1980s,  some  of  the  young,  militant  Nepalese  population 
residing  in  the  southern  part  of  Bhutan  began  to  complain  of  sys- 
tematic discrimination  at  the  hands  of  the  Bhutanese  government. 
As  many  as  6,000  ethnic  Nepalese  refugees  fled  to  Nepal.  Because 
there  were  another  16,000  Nepalese  refugees  who  had  fled  from 
Bhutan  to  India,  the  ethnic  dispute  in  Bhutan  threatened  to  be- 
come a  transregional  security  problem  involving  all  three  states  (see 
Political  Developments,  ch.  6). 

The  strong  communist  showing  in  the  1991  election  was  a  dis- 
turbing development  from  the  perspective  of  Birendra  and  the  army. 
The  Nepali  Congress  Party,  a  longtime  political  and  ideological 
foe  of  the  communists,  also  harbored  deep  misgivings  over  com- 
munist political  intentions.  Many  observers  feared  that  the  rela- 
tively open  political  environment  would  allow  disciplined  communist 
cadres  to  mount  street  protests,  paralyze  the  government,  and  force 
a  showdown  with  the  king  and  the  army.  Army  officers,  most  of 
whom  rejected  the  antimonarchist  platform  of  the  communists, 


238 


Nepal:  National  Security 


invariably  regarded  the  communists  as  a  potential  security  menace 
and  a  threat  to  the  throne.  There  was  no  evidence  in  late  1991  that 
the  some  twenty  Nepalese  communist  factions  then  in  existence 
commanded  any  appreciable  support  within  the  army  rank-and-file. 

The  Military  in  the  Early  1990s 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  military  retained  its  generally  privileged 
position  in  society.  Constitutional  arrangements  mandating  an  un- 
precedented degree  of  civilian  control  over  national  defense  and 
military  affairs  still  were  being  ironed  out,  however,  and  the  coun- 
try's experiment  in  participatory  democracy  still  was  in  an  embry- 
onic stage.  The  Royal  Nepal  Army's  position  during  the  1990 
prodemocracy  campaign  prompted  many  observers  to  predict  that 
the  military  would  willingly  accept  its  role  in  the  new  constitution- 
al order.  Other  observers,  noting  possibilities  of  heightened  politi- 
cal competition  and  strife  in  the  kingdom,  were  not  so  sanguine. 
Nepal,  however,  has  never  experienced  a  military  coup  d'etat — 
although  the  1960  palace  coup  by  King  Birendra  was  backed  by 
the  military.  In  sum,  the  military's  position  in  society  and  its  sub- 
servience to  civilian  authority  was  a  continuing  process,  not  a  set- 
tled fact. 

There  were  calls  from  some  political  quarters,  particularly  radi- 
cal communists  and  a  section  of  the  intelligentsia,  to  abolish  the 
monarchy,  overhaul  the  military  chain  of  command,  slash  the 
defense  budget,  and  ban  Indian  and  British  military  recruiting  of 
Nepalese  citizens.  These  objectives  were  not  shared  by  the  ruling 
Nepali  Congress  Party  government,  King  Birendra,  large  sections 
of  the  Nepalese  public,  and  the  military  itself — all  of  which  voiced 
unequivocal  opposition  to  any  political  attempts  to  radically  alter 
traditional  patterns  of  civil-military  relations.  By  1991  the  Royal 
Nepal  Army,  long  a  bulwark  of  the  monarchy,  appeared  to  be  ad- 
justing to  the  new  requirements  laid  down  by  the  constitution  and 
the  new  democratically  elected  government.  Most  civilian  politi- 
cians also  recognized  the  value  of  maintaining  a  disciplined,  relia- 
ble military  that  could  enforce  public  order,  symbolize  the  nation's 
independence,  and  allow  the  government  to  proceed  with  the 
monumental  task  of  improving  the  economic  well-being  of  its 
citizens. 

*    *  * 

There  are  numerous  popular  works  detailing  the  history,  traditions, 
and  martial  prowess  of  the  Gurkhas.  Among  the  more  interesting 


239 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

are  such  vintage  publications  as  Francis  Ivan  Simms  Tuker's  Gor- 
kha:  The  Story  of  the  Gurkhas  of  Nepal,  Byron  Farwell's  The  Gurkhas, 
and  Robin  Adshead's  Gurkha:  The  Legendary  Soldier.  John  Masters' s 
classic  novel  Bugles  and  a  Tiger  provides  colorful  insight  into  the 
Gurkha  tradition.  For  insights  into  the  British  Indian  Army  from 
which  the  Royal  Nepalese  Army  traces  its  origin,  see  Stephen  P. 
Cohen's  monograph,  The  Indian  Army. 

Unfortunately,  there  is  no  comprehensive  work  on  Nepal's  army, 
as  most  publications  deal  with  Gurkha  regiments.  Basic  informa- 
tion on  Nepal's  order  of  battle  can  be  obtained  from  the  annual, 
The  Military  Balance;  periodic  articles  in  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review, 
Asian  Defence  Journal,  and  India  Today  shed  some  light  on  Nepalese 
military  and  defense  topics.  Nepal's  English-language  press  is  gener- 
ally unenlightening  on  issues  relating  to  defense;  the  government- 
controlled  Rising  Nepal  is  probably  the  best  source  for  photos,  com- 
mentaries, and  a  flavor  of  local  opinion.  Leo  E.  Rose's  Nepal:  Strategy 
for  Survival  ranks  as  the  best  source  on  Nepal's  defense  and  foreign 
policy  concerns,  although  it  is  somewhat  dated.  Historical  docu- 
ments relating  to  Nepal's  defense  can  be  found  in  Documents  on 
Nepal's  Relations  with  India  and  China,  1949-1966,  edited  by  A.S. 
Bhasin.  Niranjan  Koirala's  "Nepal  in  1990:  End  of  an  Era"  in 
the  February  1991  issue  of  Asian  Survey  provides  a  succinct  sum- 
mary of  the  Indo-Nepalese  trade  and  transit  dispute. 

Annual  updates  on  Nepal  in  Asian  Survey  and  the  Far  Eastern 
Economic  Review's  Asia  Yearbook  are  useful  sources  on  Nepalese 
defense  affairs;  the  Hoover  Institution's  annual  Yearbook  on  Inter- 
national Communist  Affairs  details  the  activities  of  Nepalese  com- 
munists; and  the  Department  of  State's  annual  Country  Reports  on 
Human  Rights  Practices  for  1990  highlights  Nepal's  record  and  ac- 
complishments in  human  rights.  A  much  darker  view  of  the  problem 
can  be  found  in  Amnesty  International's  Nepal:  A  Pattern  of  Human 
Rights  Violations.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations, 
see  Bibliography.) 


240 


Table  B.  Bhutan:  Chronology  of  Important  Events 


Period  Description 

ca.  500  B.C.  State  of  Monyul  established;  continues  to  A.D.  600. 

ca.  A.D.  630-640  Early  Buddhist  temples  built. 

747  Guru  Rimpoche  visits  Bhutan;  founds  Nyingmapa  sect 

several  years  later. 

ca.  810  Independent  monarchies  develop. 

830s-840s  Tibetan  Buddhist  religion  and  culture  firmly  estab- 

lished. 

eleventh  century  Bhutan  occupied  by  Tibetan-Mongol  military  forces. 

1360s  Gelugpa  sect  monks  flee  to  Bhutan  from  Tibet. 

1616  Drukpa  monk  Ngawang  Namgyal  arrives  from  Tibet, 

seeking  freedom  from  Dalai  Lama. 

1629  First  Westerners — Portuguese  Jesuits — visit  Bhutan. 

1629-47  Successive  Tibetan  invasions  of  Bhutan  end  in  withdrawal 

or  defeat. 

1651  Ngawang  Namgyal  dies;  theocratic  Buddhist  state  rules 

unified  Bhutan  (called  Drukyul)  and  joint  civil-reli- 
gious administration  established;  summer  capital  es- 
tablished at  Thimphu,  winter  capital  at  Punakha. 
Drukpa  subsect  emerges  as  dominant  religious  force. 

1680s-1700  Bhutanese  forces  invade  Sikkim. 

1714  Tibetan-Mongolian  invasion  thwarted. 

1728  Civil  war  accompanies  struggle  for  succession  struggle 

to  throne. 

1730  Bhutan  aids  raja  of  Cooch  Behar  against  Indian  Mu- 

ghals. 

1760s  Cooch  Behar  becomes  de  facto  Bhutanese  dependency; 

Assam  Duars  come  under  Bhutanese  control. 

1770  Bhutan-Cooch  Behar  forces  invade  Sikkim. 

1772  Cooch  Behar  seeks  protection  from  British  East  India 

Company. 

1772-73  British  forces  invade  Bhutan. 

1774  Bhutan   signs   peace   treaty   with   British   East  India 

Company. 


241 


Table  B.  — Continued 


Period  Description 

1787  Boundary   disputes    plague    Bhutanese-British  Indian 

relations. 

1826-28  Border  tensions  between  Bhutan  and  British  increase 

after  British  seize  Lower  Assam,  threaten  Assam  Duars. 

1834-35  British  invade  Bhutan. 

1841  British  take  control  of  Bhutanese  portion  of  Assam  Duars 

and  begin  annual  compensation  payments  to  Bhutan. 

1862  Bhutan  raids  Sikkim  and  Cooch  Behar. 

1864  Civil  war  in  Bhutan;  British  seek  peace  relationship 

with  both  sides. 

1864-65  Duar  War  waged  between  Britain  and  Bhutan. 

1865  Treaty  of  Sinchula  signed;  Bhutan  Duars  territories  ceded 

to  Britain  in  return  for  annual  subsidy. 

1883-85  Period  of  civil  war  and  rebellion  leads  to  a  united  Bhutan 

under  Ugyen  Wangchuck. 

1904  Ugyen  Wangchuck  helps  secure  Anglo — Tibetan  Conven- 

tion on  behalf  of  Britain. 

1907  Theocracy  ends;  hereditary  monarchy,  with  Ugyen  Wang- 

chuck as  Druk  Gyalpo  (Dragon  King),  established. 

1910  China  invades  Tibet,  laying  claim  to  Bhutan,  Nepal,  and 

Sikkim;  Treaty  of  Punakha  signed  with  Britain,  stipulat- 
ing annual  increase  of  stipend  to  Bhutan  and  Bhutan's 
control  of  own  internal  affairs. 

1926  Ugyen  Wangchuck  dies  and  is  succeeded  by  Jigme  Wang- 

chuck. 

1947  British  rule  of  India  and  British  association  with  Bhutan 

end. 

1949  Treaty  of  Friendship  signed  with  India,  essentially  con- 

tinuing 1910  agreement  with  Britain. 

1952  Third  Druk  Gyalpo,  Jigme  Dorji  Wangchuck,  enthroned. 

1953  National  Assembly  established  as  part  of  government 

reform. 

1961  First  five-year  plan  introduced. 

1962  Indian  troops  retreat  through  Bhutan  during  Sino-Indian 

border  war. 

1964  Jigme  Palden  Dorji  assassinated;  factional  politics  emerge. 

1965  Assassination  attempt  on  Jigme  Dorji  Wangchuck. 


242 


Table  B.  — Continued 


Period  Description 
1966  Thimphu  made  year-round  capital. 

1 968  Druk  Gyalpo  decrees  that  sovereign  power  is  to  reside  in 

National  Assembly. 

1971  Bhutan  admitted  to  United  Nations. 

1972  Fourth  Druk  Gyalpo,  Jigme  Singye  Wangchuck,  succeeds 

upon  father's  death. 

1974  New  monetary  system  established  separate  from  India's. 

1986  One  thousand  illegal  foreign  laborers — mostly  Nepalese — 

expelled. 

1989  Unrest  among  Nepalese  minority  brings  government 

efforts  to  ameliorate  differences  between  ethnic  com- 
munities as  well  as  additional  government  restrictions. 

1990  Antigovernment  terrorist  activities  initiated;  ethnic  Nepa- 

lese protesters  in  southern  Bhutan  clash  with  Royal 
Bhutan  Army;  violence  and  crime  increase;  citizen 
militias  formed  in  progovernment  communities. 

1991  Jigme  Singye  Wangchuck  threatens  to  abdicate  in  face  of 

hard-line  opposition  in  National  Assembly  to  his  efforts 
to  resolve  ethnic  unrest;  cancels  participation  in  an- 
nual three-day  South  Asian  Association  for  Regional 
Cooperation  (SAARC)  conference  because  of  unrest  at 
home;  attends  abbreviated  one-day  SAARC  session  in 
Colombo,  Sri  Lanka. 


243 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


244 


Bhutan:  Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Kingdom  of  Bhutan  (Drukyul,  literally,  Land  of 
the  Thunder  Dragon). 

Short  Form:  Bhutan. 

Term  for  Citizens:  Bhutanese. 

Capital:  Thimphu. 

Note:  The  Country  Profile  contains  updated  information  as  available. 


245 


Date  of  Unification:  1651,  when  theocratic  Buddhist  state  of 
Drukyul  was  unified  by  Ngawang  Namgyal. 

National  Holiday:  December  17,  National  Day,  when  Ugyen 
Wangchuck  became  first  hereditary  king. 

Geography 

Location  and  Size:  Landlocked  between  China  and  India;  total 
land  area  44,500  square  kilometers. 

Topography:  Rugged,  mountainous,  snowcapped  or  glacier- 
covered  terrain  in  north,  part  of  Himalayas;  high  mountains  in 
center,  southern  spurs  of  Himalayas;  foothills  and  subtropical  plains 
in  south.  Highest  point  Kulha  Gangri  (7,554  meters).  Numerous, 
rapidly  flowing,  largely  unnavigable  rivers. 

Climate:  Varies  with  altitude.  Year-round  snow  in  north,  heavy 
monsoon  rains  in  west,  drier  but  temperate  in  central  and  eastern 
areas,  humid  and  subtropical  in  south. 

Society 

Population:  Estimates  vary  widely:  1,660,167  in  July  1992  based 
on  foreign  estimates  but  more  likely  only  600,000,  size  given  by 
Bhutanese  government;  annual  growth  rate  2  percent.  About  45 
percent  under  age  fifteen  in  late  1980s.  In  1985,  only  5  percent 
in  urban  areas;  low  population  density — thirty-one  persons  per 
square  kilometer  for  total  area,  higher  average  for  habitable  land. 

Ethnic  Groups:  Officially  72  percent  of  Bhutanese  of  Tibetan 
(Ngalop),  Indo-Mongoloid  (Sharchop),  and  aboriginal  (Drokpa, 
Lepcha,  and  Doya)  origin;  28  percent,  Nepalese  origin.  Nepalese 
may  constitute  as  much  as  40  percent. 

Language:  Dzongkha  official  national  language  using  chhokey  (Ti- 
betan script)  for  written  expression;  Ngalopkha  (on  which  Dzong- 
kha is  based)  spoken  in  west;  Sharchopkha  in  east;  Nepali  in  south; 
English  widely  understood  throughout  school  system. 

Religion:  70  percent  Mahay  ana  Buddhists  (predominantly  Drupka 
subsect),  approximately  25  percent  Hindus,  5  percent  Muslims. 
Indeterminate  but  small  number  of  Bon  adherents. 

Education:  Noncompulsory,  free  eleven-year  education  (primary — 
grades  one  through  five;  junior  high — grades  six  through  eight; 


246 


upper- secondary  schools — grades  nine  through  eleven).  Primary 
level  attended  by  about  25  percent  of  school-age  population;  junior 
high  and  high  schools  attended  by  around  8  percent  and  3  per- 
cent, respectively.  In  1991  one  junior  college  and  two  technical 
schools.  Entire  system  supervised  by  Department  of  Education. 
Literacy  rate  30  percent  for  males,  10  percent  for  females  in  early 
1990s. 

Health:  In  early  1980s,  life  expectancy  45.9  for  women  and  men. 
Infant  mortality  rate  137  per  1,000  in  1990.  Health-care  system 
in  late  1980s  included  twenty-nine  general  hospitals,  forty-six  dis- 
pensaries, and  sixty-seven  basic  health  units,  four  indigenous- 
medicine  dispensaries,  and  fifteen  malaria  education  centers  with 
total  capacity  932  beds.  Severe  shortage  of  health-care  personnel: 
142  physicians  and  678  paramedics  in  1988.  Gastrointestinal  in- 
fections most  common  illness. 

Economy 

Salient  Features:  Underdeveloped  economy  with  ties  to  India  be- 
cause of  geographic  position  and  historical  relationship. 
Predominantly  agricultural;  limited  industrial  activity;  services — 
particularly  related  to  tourism — growing  part  of  economy.  Develop- 
ment of  hydroelectric  capabilities  for  domestic  use  and  export  also 
increasingly  important.  Increasing  domestic  concern  and  interna- 
tional cooperation  with  respect  to  environmental  protection  and 
resource  conservation.  Development  funding — major  component 
in  economic  development.  Once  100  percent  from  India,  but  in- 
creasingly from  domestic  sources,  European  countries,  and  inter- 
national organizations.  Less  than  1  percent  of  population  involved 
in  industrial  work. 

Gross  National  Product  (GNP):  Nu3.9  billion  (1988;  Nu— 
ngultrum).  Per  capita  GNP  US$440. 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  Nu3.4  billion  (1988). 

Agriculture:  Including  fishing  and  forestry,  46.2  percent  of  GDP 
projected  for  1991.  Traditionally  self-sufficient  in  food  production; 
rice  imports  increased  in  late  1980s.  About  87  percent  of  popula- 
tion involved  in  agriculture.  Less  than  6  percent  of  land  cultiva- 
ble; most  farms  terraced  or  use  illegal  tsheri  (shifting  cultivation). 
Major  crops  corn  and  rice.  Cash  crops  oranges,  apples,  and  carda- 
mon.  Livestock  raised  throughout  country.  Fish  an  important 
dietary  supplement.  Modest  use  of  irrigation  and  fertilizers.  Up 


247 


to  70  percent  of  country  covered  with  forests;  lumber  industry  about 
15  percent  of  GDP. 

Industry:  26.4  percent  of  GDP  projected  for  1991.  Only  1  per- 
cent of  population  involved  in  industry  and  construction  in  late 
1980s.  Basic  industries:  handicrafts,  cement,  food  processing,  wood 
milling,  and  distilling;  400  small-scale  cottage  and  industrial  units. 
Limestone  for  cement  production  major  mining  and  quarrying 
product.  Hydroelectric  power  major  energy  producer. 

Services:  29  percent  of  GDP  projected  for  1991.  Most  commer- 
cial services  tourist-oriented  plus  domestic-oriented  wholesale  and 
retail  trade.  Tourism  largest  foreign-exchange  earner  (US$2  mil- 
lion in  1987). 

Resources:  High-grade  limestone  and  slate;  marble,  dolomite,  and 
graphite;  deposits  of  copper,  gypsum,  lead,  tin,  tungsten,  zinc,  coal, 
beryl,  mica,  pyrites,  tufa,  and  talc.  Abundant  water  for  hydro- 
electric power  sources. 

Foreign  Trade:  Principally  with  India.  Total  exports  Nul.2  bil- 
lion in  1990,  primarily  electricity  and  processed  raw  materials.  Total 
imports  Nul.8  billion  in  1990,  primarily  rice  and  manufactured 
goods. 

Balance  of  Payments:  Early  1980s  trade  imbalance — imports  80 
percent  of  total  trade — decreased  as  decade  progressed.  Exports 
represented  40  percent,  imports  60  percent  of  total  annual  trade 
in  1990. 

Foreign  Aid:  Once  100  percent  dependent  on  India  for  develop- 
ment funds  and  government  revenue;  since  1960s  major  inputs  from 
Colombo  Plan,  World  Bank,  United  Nations,  and  private  sources, 
plus  domestic  contributions,  decreased  Indian  aid  to  27.5  percent 
(Nu2.6  billion)  of  total  input  in  Sixth  Development  Plan  (1987-92). 

Currency/Exchange  Rate:  Ngultrum  (Nu).  US$1  =  Nul8.3 
(January  1991).  Ngultrum  on  par  with  Indian  rupee. 

Fiscal  Year:  July  1  to  June  30. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Roads:  In  1989,  2,280  kilometers  of  roads,  77  percent  paved.  Most 
principal  towns  linked  by  surfaced  road  network  in  south;  moun- 
tainous terrain  in  north  makes  transportation  difficult.  Nearly  7,000 
vehicles  registered  in  1988.  Bus  service  major  public  transportation. 


248 


Airports:  International  facility  at  Paro,  small  airport  at  Yon- 
phula;  helipads  throughout  country.  Druk-Air  service  from  Paro; 
five  flights  weekly  to  Bangkok,  Calcutta,  New  Delhi,  Dhaka,  and 
Kathmandu. 

Telecommunications:  Modern  telecommunications  link  major 
towns;  international  microwave  telephone  service  through  satel- 
lite ground  stations  in  Thimphu,  Calcutta,  and  New  Delhi. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  World's  only  Buddhist  kingdom.  De  facto  constitu- 
tional monarchy  with  Druk  Gyalpo  (Dragon  King)  head  of  state 
and  head  of  government.  Royal  family  members  serve  as  close  ad- 
visers and  heads  of  some  ministries.  Main  executive  organs  Royal 
Advisory  Council  and  Council  of  Ministers.  Since  August  1991 
eight  ministries,  with  establishment  of  new  Ministry  of  Planning. 
Unicameral  National  Assembly  (Tshogdu);  two-thirds  of  its  150 
members — representatives  of  general  public — indirectly  elected 
every  three  years;  balance  made  up  of  monastic  representatives 
appointed  by  Buddhist  hierarchy  and  government  officials  appoint- 
ed by  Druk  Gyalpo. 

Politics:  No  legal  political  parties;  political  activities  carried  out 
by  elite  factions.  Starting  in  late  1980s,  unrest  among  Nepalese 
minority  in  south  led  to  government's  parallel  efforts  to  accom- 
modate ethnic  communities  and  restrict  separatist  activities  amid 
increasing  discontent  and  violence. 

Judiciary:  Civil  law  system  heavily  influenced  by  Buddhist  law 
based  on  seventeenth-century  code.  Druk  Gyalpo  final  level  of  ap- 
peal. High  Court  and  district  courts;  minor  civil  disputes  adjudi- 
cated by  village  heads. 

Administrative  Divisions:  Four  administrative  zones  (dzongdey) 
planned  to  provide  central  government  services  at  local  levels;  in 
1991  eighteen  districts  (dzongkhag),  ten  of  which  were  divided  into 
subdistricts  (dungkhag);  and  191  village  groups  (gewog).  Thimphu 
District  not  included  in  zonal  administration.  Municipal  corpora- 
tions at  Thimphu  and  Phuntsholing;  4,500  other  villages  and  set- 
tlements. Nineteenth  district — Gasa  (part  of  Punakha  District) — to 
be  established  under  Seventh  Development  Plan  (1992-97). 

Foreign  Relations:  Major  aid  recipient  from  India,  international 
organizations,  and  developed  countries.  Traditionally  relied  first 
on  Britain  and  then  on  India  to  direct  foreign  affairs;  increasingly 


249 


asserted  independence  since  joining  United  Nations  in  1971.  In 
1991  maintained  diplomatic  relations  with  only  sixteen  nations. 
Member  of  Asian  Development  Bank,  Colombo  Plan  for  Cooper- 
ative, Economic  and  Social  Development  in  Asia  and  the  Pacific, 
Coordination  Bureau  of  Nonaligned  Movement,  International  Civil 
Aviation  Organization,  International  Development  Association, 
International  Monetary  Fund,  International  Telecommunications 
Union,  South  Asian  Association  for  Regional  Cooperation,  United 
Nations  and  its  affiliated  agencies,  and  Universal  Postal  Union. 

Media:  Kuensel,  government-owned  weekly  newspaper.  Bhutan 
Broadcasting  Service  offers  shortwave  radio  programming;  daily 
FM  broadcasts  in  Thimphu;  no  television  reception. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  Royal  Bhutan  Army  numbered  about  6,000  in 
1990. 

Military  Units  and  Equipment:  Four  operational  wings  head- 
quartered in  Changju,  Damthang,  Goinchawa,  and  Yonphula;  each 
organized  into  companies,  platoons,  and  sections.  Airport  securi- 
ty unit  at  Paro.  Royal  Body  Guards — elite  VIP  protection  unit; 
some  members  with  counterinsurgency  training.  Modern  small 
arms;  obsolescent  Indian- supplied  equipment. 

Military  Budget:  Unknown. 

Foreign  Military  Relations:  India  de  facto  protector,  weapons 
supplier,  and  provider  of  advanced  training. 

Paramilitary:  Village  security  long-standing  tradition.  Modern 
militia  controlled  by  central  government.  Universal  militia  train- 
ing by  Royal  Bhutan  Army  instituted  1989.  Uniformed  Forest 
Guards  trained  by  Royal  Bhutan  Army  to  protect  forests  and  sup- 
port border  security. 

Police  Forces:  Royal  Bhutan  Police,  subordinate  to  Royal  Bhu- 
tan Army;  headquarters  in  each  district  and  subdistrict;  provide 
border  security. 


250 


Chapter  6.  Bhutan 


Bhutan  }s  national  symbol.  The  traditional  sacred  wheel  of  Buddhism  is  used 
to  symbolize  the  king  (center)  surrounded  by  his  ministers  (the  spokes).  The 
two  dragons  surrounding  the  wheel  stand  for  religious  and  secular  adminis- 
tration. The  jeweled  umbrella,  a  Buddhist  symbol  of  luck,  suggests  spiritual 
protection  for  the  people  of  Bhutan;  the  lotus  blossom  at  the  bottom  represents 
peace  and  gentleness. 


' ' IN  THE  THUNDER  DRAGON  KINGDOM,  adorned  with 
sandalwood,  the  protector  who  guards  the  teachings  of  the  dual 
system;  he,  the  precious  and  glorious  ruler,  causes  dominion  to 
spread  while  his  unchanging  person  abides  in  constancy,  as  the 
doctrine  of  the  Buddha  flourishes,  may  the  sun  of  peace  and  hap- 
piness shine  on  the  people."  These  few  words — the  text  of  the  na- 
tional anthem  of  Bhutan — sum  up  much  about  the  spirit  and  culture 
of  a  society  that  sprang  from  an  aboriginal  people  and  was  enriched 
by  Tibetan,  Mongol,  and  Indo-Burman  migrants.  Buddhism  has 
been  a  pervasive  influence  in  Bhutan  throughout  most  of  its  histo- 
ry and  has  long  been  the  state  religion  and  source  of  civil  law.  Uni- 
fied Bhutan  has  had  two  forms  of  monarchy:  from  the  sixteenth 
century  to  the  early  twentieth  century,  a  dual  system  of  shared  civil 
and  spiritual  rule;  and  since  1907  the  hereditary  monarchy  of  the 
Wangchuck  family. 

Once  one  of  the  many  independent  Himalayan  kingdoms  and 
principalities,  Bhutan,  like  Nepal,  is  situated  between  two  Asian 
powers,  India  and  China,  which,  at  best,  have  had  an  uneasy  stand- 
off politically  and  militarily  for  nearly  half  a  century  (see  fig.  2). 
Bhutan's  independence  has  long  been  at  issue  in  the  geopolitical 
maneuverings  between  Tibet  (and  later  China)  and  India.  In  the 
late  twentieth  century,  Bhutan  has  fended  off  this  external  threat 
with  conscientiously  planned  economic  development.  A  serious  in- 
ternal threat  to  Bhutan's  traditional  identity  started  peacefully  in 
the  1950s  and  1960s  among  the  growing  Nepalese  minority,  which 
represented  28  percent  or  more  of  the  population  in  the  early  1990s 
and  emerged  as  a  sometimes  violent  "prodemocracy"  movement 
in  the  late  1980s.  The  1990s  promised  to  be  a  crucial  period  for 
the  monarchy  as  it  continued  to  foster  economic  and  administra- 
tive reform  amid  efforts  to  retain  traditional  culture  and  to  assuage 
minority  unrest. 

Historical  Setting 

Origins  and  Early  Settlement,  A.D.  600-1600 

Although  knowledge  of  prehistoric  Bhutan  has  yet  to  emerge 
through  archaeological  study,  stone  tools  and  weapons,  remnants 
of  large  stone  structures,  and  megaliths  that  may  have  been  used 
for  boundary  markers  or  rituals  provide  evidence  of  civilization 


253 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

as  early  as  2000  B.C.  The  absence  of  neolithic  mythological  legends 
argues  against  earlier  inhabitation.  With  a  little  more  certainty, 
historians  theorize  about  the  existence  of  the  state  of  Lhomon  (liter- 
ally, southern  darkness)  or  Monyul  (dark  land,  a  reference  to  the 
Monpa  aboriginal  peoples  of  Bhutan),  possibly  a  part  of  Tibet  that 
was  then  beyond  the  pale  of  Buddhist  teachings  (see  Religious  Tra- 
dition, this  ch.).  Monyul  is  thought  to  have  existed  between  500 
B.C.  and  A.D.  600.  The  names  Lhomon  Tsendenjong  (southern 
Mon  sandalwood  country)  and  Lhomon  Khashi  (southern  Mon 
country  of  four  approaches),  found  in  ancient  Bhutanese  and  Tibet- 
an chronicles,  may  also  have  credence  and  have  been  used  by  some 
Bhutanese  scholars  when  referring  to  their  homeland.  Variations 
of  the  Sanskrit  words  Bhota-ant  (end  of  Bhot,  an  Indian  name  for 
Tibet)  or  Bhu-uttan  (meaning  highlands)  have  been  suggested  by 
historians  as  origins  of  the  name  Bhutan,  which  came  into  common 
foreign  use  in  the  late  nineteenth  century  and  is  used  in  Bhutan 
only  in  English-language  official  correspondence.  The  traditional 
name  of  the  country  since  the  seventeenth  century  has  been 
Drukyul — country  of  the  Drukpa,  the  Dragon  People,  or  the  Land 
of  the  Thunder  Dragon — a  reference  to  the  country's  dominant 
Buddhist  sect. 

Some  scholars  believe  that  during  the  early  historical  period  the 
inhabitants  were  fierce  mountain  aborigines,  the  Monpa,  who  were 
of  neither  the  Tibetan  or  Mongol  stock  that  later  overran  north- 
ern Bhutan.  The  people  of  Monyul  practiced  the  shamanistic  Bon 
religion,  which  emphasized  worship  of  nature  and  the  existence 
of  good  and  evil  spirits.  During  the  latter  part  of  this  period,  histor- 
ical legends  relate  that  the  mighty  king  of  Monyul  invaded  a 
southern  region  known  as  the  Duars,  subduing  the  regions  of 
modern  Assam,  West  Bengal,  and  Bihar  in  India. 

Arrival  of  Buddhism 

The  introduction  of  Buddhism  occurred  in  the  seventh  century 
A.D.,  when  Tibetan  king  Srongtsen  Gampo  (reigned  A.D.  627-49), 
a  convert  to  Buddhism,  ordered  the  construction  of  two  Buddhist 
temples,  at  Bumthang  in  central  Bhutan  and  at  Kyichu  in  the  Paro 
Valley  (see  fig.  13).  Buddhism  replaced  but  did  not  eliminate  the 
Bon  religious  practices  that  had  also  been  prevalent  in  Tibet  until 
the  late  sixth  century.  Instead,  Buddhism  absorbed  Bon  and  its 
believers.  As  the  country  developed  in  its  many  fertile  valleys,  Bud- 
dhism matured  and  became  a  unifying  element.  It  was  Buddhist 
literature  and  chronicles  that  began  the  recorded  history  of  Bhutan. 

In  A.D.  747,  a  Buddhist  saint,  Padmasambhava  (known  in  Bhu- 
tan as  Guru  Rimpoche  and  sometimes  referred  to  as  the  Second 


254 


Bhutan 


Buddha),  came  to  Bhutan  from  India  at  the  invitation  of  one  of 
the  numerous  local  kings.  After  reportedly  subduing  eight  classes 
of  demons  and  converting  the  king,  Guru  Rimpoche  moved  on 
to  Tibet.  Upon  his  return  from  Tibet,  he  oversaw  the  construc- 
tion of  new  monasteries  in  the  Paro  Valley  and  set  up  his  head- 
quarters in  Bumthang.  According  to  tradition,  he  founded  the 
Nyingmapa  sect — also  known  as  the  "old  sect"  or  Red  Hat  sect — of 
Mahayana  Buddhism,  which  became  for  a  time  the  dominant 
religion  of  Bhutan.  Guru  Rimpoche  plays  a  great  historical  and 
religious  role  as  the  national  patron  saint  who  revealed  the 
tantras — manuals  describing  forms  of  devotion  to  natural  energy — 
to  Bhutan.  Following  the  guru's  sojourn,  Indian  influence  played 
a  temporary  role  until  increasing  Tibetan  migrations  brought  new 
cultural  and  religious  contributions. 

There  was  no  central  government  during  this  period.  Instead, 
small  independent  monarchies  began  to  develop  by  the  early  ninth 
century.  Each  was  ruled  by  a  deb  (king),  some  of  whom  claimed 
divine  origins.  The  kingdom  of  Bumthang  was  the  most  promi- 
nent among  these  small  entities.  At  the  same  time,  Tibetan  Bud- 
dhist monks  {lam  in  Dzongkha,  Bhutan's  official  national  language) 
had  firmly  rooted  their  religion  and  culture  in  Bhutan,  and  mem- 
bers of  joint  Tibetan-Mongol  military  expeditions  settled  in  fertile 
valleys.  By  the  eleventh  century,  all  of  Bhutan  was  occupied  by 
Tibetan- Mongol  military  forces. 

Rivalry  among  the  Sects 

By  the  tenth  century,  Bhutan's  political  development  was  heav- 
ily influenced  by  its  religious  history.  Following  a  period  in  which 
Buddhism  was  in  decline  in  Tibet  in  the  eleventh  century,  conten- 
tion among  a  number  of  subsects  emerged.  The  Mongol  overlords 
of  Tibet  and  Bhutan  patronized  a  sequence  of  subsects  until  their 
own  political  decline  in  the  fourteenth  century.  By  that  time,  the 
Gelugpa  or  Yellow  Hat  school  had,  after  a  period  of  anarchy  in 
Tibet,  become  a  powerful  force  resulting  in  the  flight  to  Bhutan 
of  numerous  monks  of  various  minor  opposing  sects.  Among  these 
monks  was  the  founder  of  the  Lhapa  subsect  of  the  Kargyupa  school, 
to  whom  is  attributed  the  introduction  of  strategically  built  dzong 
(fortified  monasteries — see  Glossary).  Although  the  Lhapa  subsect 
had  been  successfully  challenged  in  the  twelfth  century  by  another 
Kargyupa  subsect — the  Drukpa — led  by  Tibetan  monk  Phajo  Dru- 
gom  Shigpo,  it  continued  to  proselytize  until  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury. The  Drukpa  subsect,  an  unreformed  Nyingmapa  group  in 
Tibet,  spread  throughout  Bhutan  and  eventually  became  a 
dominant  form  of  religious  practice.  Between  the  twelfth  century 


255 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

and  the  seventeenth  century,  the  two  Kargyupa  subsects  vied  with 
one  another  from  their  respective  dzong  as  the  older  form  of  Nying- 
mapa  Buddhism  was  eclipsed. 

Theocratic  Government,  1616-1907 

Consolidation  and  Defeat  of  Tibetan  Invasions,  1616-51 

In  the  seventeenth  century,  a  theocratic  government  indepen- 
dent of  Tibetan  political  influence  was  established,  and  premodern 
Bhutan  emerged.  The  theocratic  government  was  founded  by  an 
expatriate  Drukpa  monk,  Ngawang  Namgyal,  who  arrived  in  Bhu- 
tan in  1616  seeking  freedom  from  the  domination  of  the  Gelugpa 
subsect  led  by  the  Dalai  Lama  (Ocean  Lama)  in  Lhasa.  After  a 
series  of  victories  over  rival  subsect  leaders  and  Tibetan  invaders, 
Ngawang  Namgyal  took  the  title  shabdrung  (At  Whose  Feet  One 
Submits,  or,  in  many  Western  sources,  dharma  raja),  becoming  the 
temporal  and  spiritual  leader  of  Bhutan.  Considered  the  first  great 
historical  figure  of  Bhutan,  he  united  the  leaders  of  powerful 
Bhutanese  families  in  a  land  called  Drukyul.  He  promulgated  a 
code  of  law  and  built  a  network  of  impregnable  dzong,  a  system 
that  helped  bring  local  lords  under  centralized  control  and  strength- 
ened the  country  against  Tibetan  invasions.  Many  dzong  were  ex- 
tant in  the  late  twentieth  century. 

Tibetan  armies  invaded  Bhutan  around  1629,  in  1631,  and  again 
in  1639,  hoping  to  throttle  Ngawang  Namgyal' s  popularity  before 
it  spread  too  far.  The  invasions  were  thwarted,  and  the  Drukpa 
subsect  developed  a  strong  presence  in  western  and  central  Bhu- 
tan, leaving  Ngawang  Namgyal  supreme.  In  recognition  of  the  pow- 
er he  accrued,  goodwill  missions  were  sent  to  Bhutan  from  Cooch 
Behar  in  the  Duars  (present-day  northeastern  West  Bengal),  Nepal 
to  the  west,  and  Ladakh  in  western  Tibet,  The  ruler  of  Ladakh 
even  gave  a  number  of  villages  in  his  kingdom  to  Ngawang  Nam- 
gyal. During  the  first  war  with  Tibet,  two  Portuguese  Jesuits — 
the  first  recorded  Europeans  to  visit — passed  through  Bhutan  on 
their  way  to  Tibet.  They  met  with  Ngawang  Namgyal,  presented 
him  with  firearms,  gunpowder,  and  a  telescope,  and  offered  him 
their  services  in  the  war  against  Tibet,  but  the  shabdrung  declined 
the  offer. 

Bhutan's  troubles  were  not  over,  however.  In  1643  a  joint 
Mongol-Tibetan  force  sought  to  destroy  Nyingmapa  refugees  who 
had  fled  to  Bhutan,  Sikkim,  and  Nepal.  The  Mongols  had  seized 
control  of  religious  and  civil  power  in  Tibet  in  the  1630s  and  es- 
tablished Gelugpa  as  the  state  religion.  Bhutanese  rivals  of  Ngawang 
Namgyal  encouraged  the  Mongol  intrusion,  but  the  Mongol  force 


256 


Bhutan 


was  easily  defeated  in  the  humid  lowlands  of  southern  Bhutan. 
Another  Tibetan  invasion  in  1647  also  failed. 

During  Ngawang  Namgyal's  rule,  administration  comprised  a 
state  monastic  body  with  an  elected  head,  the  Je  Khenpo  (lord  ab- 
bot), and  a  theocratic  civil  government  headed  by  the  druk  desi  (re- 
gent of  Bhutan,  also  known  as  deb  raja  in  Western  sources).  The 
druk  desi  was  either  a  monk  or  a  member  of  the  laity — by  the 
nineteenth  century,  usually  the  latter;  he  was  elected  for  a  three- 
year  term,  initially  by  a  monastic  council  and  later  by  the  State 
Council  (Lhengye  Tshokdu).  The  State  Council  was  a  central  ad- 
ministrative organ  that  included  regional  rulers,  the  shabdrung's 
chamberlains,  and  the  druk  desi.  In  time,  the  druk  desi  came  under 
the  political  control  of  the  State  Council's  most  powerful  faction 
of  regional  administrators.  The  shabdrung  was  the  head  of  state  and 
the  ultimate  authority  in  religious  and  civil  matters.  The  seat  of 
government  was  at  Thimphu,  the  site  of  a  thirteenth-century  dzong, 
in  the  spring,  summer,  and  fall.  The  winter  capital  was  at  Puna- 
kha,  a  dzong  established  northeast  of  Thimphu  in  1527.  The  king- 
dom was  divided  into  three  regions  (east,  central,  and  west),  each 
with  an  appointed  ponlop,  or  governor,  holding  a  seat  in  a  major 
dzong.  Districts  were  headed  by  dzongpon,  or  district  officers,  who 
had  their  headquarters  in  lesser  dzong.  The  ponlop  were  combina- 
tion tax  collectors,  judges,  military  commanders,  and  procurement 
agents  for  the  central  government.  Their  major  revenues  came  from 
the  trade  between  Tibet  and  India  and  from  land  taxes. 

Ngawang  Namgyal's  regime  was  bound  by  a  legal  code  called 
the  Tsa  Yig,  which  described  the  spiritual  and  civil  regime  and 
provided  laws  for  government  administration  and  for  social  and 
moral  conduct.  The  duties  and  virtues  inherent  in  the  Buddhist 
dharma  (religious  law)  played  a  large  role  in  the  new  legal  code, 
which  remained  in  force  until  the  1960s. 

Administrative  Integration  and  Conflict  with  Tibet,  1651-1728 

To  keep  Bhutan  from  disintegrating,  Ngawang  Namgyal's  death 
in  1651  apparently  was  kept  a  carefully  guarded  secret  for  fifty- 
four  years.  Initially,  Ngawang  Namgyal  was  said  to  have  entered 
into  a  religious  retreat,  a  situation  not  unprecedented  in  Bhutan, 
Sikkim,  or  Tibet  during  that  time.  During  the  period  of  Ngawang 
Namgyal's  supposed  retreat,  appointments  of  officials  were  issued 
in  his  name,  and  food  was  left  in  front  of  his  locked  door. 

Ngawang  Namgyal's  son  and  stepbrother,  in  1651  and  1680, 
respectively,  succeeded  him.  They  started  their  reigns  as  minors 
under  the  control  of  religious  and  civil  regents  and  rarely  exercised 
authority  in  their  own  names.  For  further  continuity,  the  concept 


257 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

of  multiple  reincarnation  of  the  first  shabdrung — in  the  form  of  either 
his  body,  his  speech,  or  his  mind — was  invoked  by  the  Je  Khenpo 
and  the  druk  desi,  both  of  whom  wanted  to  retain  the  power  they 
had  accrued  through  the  dual  system  of  government.  The  last  person 
recognized  as  the  bodily  reincarnation  of  Ngawang  Namgyal  died 
in  the  mid-eighteenth  century,  but  speech  and  mind  reincarnations, 
embodied  by  individuals  who  acceded  to  the  position  of  shabdrung, 
were  recognized  into  the  early  twentieth  century.  The  power  of 
the  state  religion  also  increased  with  a  new  monastic  code  that  re- 
mained in  effect  in  the  early  1990s.  The  compulsory  admission  to 
monastic  life  of  at  least  one  son  from  any  family  having  three  or 
more  sons  was  instituted  in  the  late  seventeenth  century.  In  time, 
however,  the  State  Council  became  increasingly  secular  as  did  the 
successive  druk  desi,  ponlop,  and  dzongpon,  and  intense  rivalries  de- 
veloped among  the  ponlop  of  Tongsa  and  Paro  and  the  dzongpon  of 
Punakha,  Thimphu,  and  Wangdiphodrang. 

During  the  first  period  of  succession  and  further  internal  con- 
solidation under  the  druk  desi  government,  there  was  conflict  with 
Tibet  and  Sikkim.  Internal  opposition  to  the  central  government 
resulted  in  overtures  by  the  opponents  of  the  druk  desi  to  Tibet  and 
Sikkim.  In  the  1680s,  Bhutan  invaded  Sikkim  in  pursuit  of  a  re- 
bellious local  lord.  In  1700  Bhutan  again  invaded  Sikkim,  and  in 
1714  Tibetan  forces,  aided  by  Mongolia,  invaded  Bhutan  but  were 
unable  to  gain  control. 

Civil  Conflict,  1728-72 

Civil  war  ensued  when  the  "first  reincarnation"  of  Ngawang 
Namgyal,  Jigme  Dakpa,  was  recognized  as  the  shabdrung  in  1728. 
A  rival  claimant,  however,  was  promoted  by  opposition  forces  sup- 
ported by  Tibet.  The  Tibetan-backed  forces  were  defeated  by  Jigme 
Dakpa' s  supporters,  but  the  political  system  remained  unstable. 
Regional  rivalries  contributed  to  the  gradual  disintegration  of  Bhu- 
tan at  the  time  the  first  British  agents  arrived. 

In  the  early  eighteenth  century,  Bhutan  had  successfully  devel- 
oped control  over  the  principality  of  Cooch  Behar.  The  raja  of 
Cooch  Behar  had  sought  assistance  from  Bhutan  against  the  Indi- 
an Mughals  in  1730,  and  Bhutanese  political  influence  was  not  long 
in  following.  By  the  mid- 1760s,  Thimphu  considered  Cooch  Be- 
har its  dependency,  stationing  a  garrison  force  there  and  directing 
its  civil  administration.  When  the  druk  desi  invaded  Sikkim  in  1770, 
Cooch  Behari  forces  joined  their  Bhutanese  counterparts  in  the 
offensive.  In  a  succession  dispute  in  Cooch  Behar  two  years  later, 
however,  the  druk  desVs  nominee  for  the  throne  was  opposed  by 


258 


Bhutan 


a  rival  who  invited  British  troops,  and,  in  effect,  Cooch  Behar  be- 
came a  dependency  of  the  British  East  India  Company. 

British  Intrusion,  1772-1907 

Under  the  Cooch  Behari  agreement  with  the  British,  a  British 
expeditionary  force  drove  the  Bhutanese  garrison  out  of  Cooch  Be- 
har and  invaded  Bhutan  in  1772-73.  The  druk  desi  petitioned  Lha- 
sa for  assistance  from  the  Panchen  Lama,  who  was  serving  as  regent 
for  the  youthful  Dalai  Lama.  In  correspondence  with  the  British 
governor  general  of  India,  however,  the  Panchen  Lama  instead 
castigated  the  druk  desi  and  invoked  Tibet's  claim  of  suzerainty  over 
Bhutan. 

Failing  to  receive  help  from  Tibet,  the  druk  desi  signed  a  Treaty 
of  Peace  with  the  British  East  India  Company  on  April  25,  1774. 
Bhutan  agreed  to  return  to  its  pre- 1730  boundaries,  paid  a  sym- 
bolic tribute  of  five  horses  to  Britain,  and,  among  other  conces- 
sions, allowed  the  British  to  harvest  timber  in  Bhutan.  Subsequent 
missions  to  Bhutan  were  made  by  the  British  in  1776,  1777,  and 
1783,  and  commerce  was  opened  between  British  India  and  Bhu- 
tan and,  for  a  short  time,  Tibet.  In  1784  the  British  turned  over 
to  Bhutanese  control  the  Bengal  Duars  territory,  where  boundaries 
were  poorly  defined.  As  in  its  other  foreign  territories,  Bhutan  left 
administration  of  the  Bengal  Duars  territory  to  local  officials  and 
collected  its  revenues.  Although  major  trade  and  political  relations 
failed  to  develop  between  Bhutan  and  Britain,  the  British  had 
replaced  the  Tibetans  as  the  major  external  threat. 

Boundary  disputes  plagued  Bhutanese-British  relations.  To 
reconcile  their  differences,  Bhutan  sent  an  emissary  to  Calcutta 
in  1787,  and  the  British  sent  missions  to  Thimphu  in  1815  and 
1838.  The  1815  mission  was  inconclusive.  The  1838  mission  offered 
a  treaty  providing  for  extradition  of  Bhutanese  officials  responsi- 
ble for  incursions  into  Assam,  free  and  unrestricted  commerce  be- 
tween India  and  Bhutan,  and  settlement  of  Bhutan's  debt  to  the 
British.  In  an  attempt  to  protect  its  independence,  Bhutan  reject- 
ed the  British  offer.  Despite  increasing  internal  disorder,  Bhutan 
had  maintained  its  control  over  a  portion  of  the  Assam  Duars  more 
or  less  since  its  reduction  of  Cooch  Behar  to  a  dependency  in  the 
1760s.  After  the  British  gained  control  of  Lower  Assam  in  1826, 
tension  between  the  countries  began  to  rise  as  Britain  exerted  its 
strength.  Bhutanese  payments  of  annual  tribute  to  the  British  for 
the  Assam  Duars  gradually  fell  into  arrears,  however.  The  result- 
ing British  demands  for  payment  and  military  incursions  into  Bhu- 
tan in  1834  and  1835  brought  about  defeat  for  Bhutan's  forces  and 
a  temporary  loss  of  territory. 


259 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

The  British  proceeded  in  1841  to  annex  the  formerly  Bhutanese- 
controlled  Assam  Duars,  paying  a  compensation  of  10,000  rupees 
a  year  to  Bhutan.  In  1842  Bhutan  gave  up  control  to  the  British 
of  some  of  the  troublesome  Bengal  Duars  territory  it  had  ad- 
ministered since  1784. 

Charges  and  countercharges  of  border  incursions  and  protec- 
tion of  fugitives  led  to  an  unsuccessful  Bhutanese  mission  to  Cal- 
cutta in  1852.  Among  other  demands,  the  mission  sought  increased 
compensation  for  its  former  Duars  territories,  but  instead  the  British 
deducted  nearly  3,000  rupees  from  the  annual  compensation  and 
demanded  an  apology  for  alleged  plundering  of  British-protected 
lands  by  members  of  the  mission.  Following  more  incidents  and 
the  prospect  of  an  anti-Bhutan  rebellion  in  the  Bengal  Duars,  British 
troops  deployed  to  the  frontier  in  the  mid- 1850s.  The  Sepoy  Re- 
bellion in  India  in  1857-58  and  the  demise  of  the  British  East  In- 
dia Company's  rule  prevented  immediate  British  action.  Bhutanese 
armed  forces  raided  Sikkim  and  Cooch  Behar  in  1862,  seizing  peo- 
ple, property,  and  money.  The  British  responded  by  withholding 
all  compensation  payments  and  demanding  release  of  all  captives 
and  return  of  stolen  property.  Demands  to  the  druk  desi  went  un- 
heeded, as  he  was  alleged  to  be  unaware  of  his  frontier  officials' 
actions  against  Sikkim  and  Cooch  Behar. 

Britain  sent  a  peace  mission  to  Bhutan  in  early  1864,  in  the  wake 
of  the  recent  conclusion  of  a  civil  war  there.  The  dzongpon  of 
Punakha — who  had  emerged  victorious — had  broken  with  the  cen- 
tral government  and  set  up  a  rival  druk  desi  while  the  legitimate 
druk  desi  sought  the  protection  of  the  ponlop  of  Paro  and  was  later 
deposed.  The  British  mission  dealt  alternately  with  the  rival  pon- 
lop of  Paro  and  the  ponlop  of  Tongsa  (the  latter  acted  on  behalf  of 
the  druk  desi),  but  Bhutan  rejected  the  peace  and  friendship  treaty 
it  offered.  Britain  declared  war  in  November  1864.  Bhutan  had 
no  regular  army,  and  what  forces  existed  were  composed  of  dzong 
guards  armed  with  matchlocks,  bows  and  arrows,  swords,  knives, 
and  catapults.  Some  of  these  dzong  guards,  carrying  shields  and 
wearing  chainmail  armor,  engaged  the  well-equipped  British  forces. 

The  Duar  War  (1864-65)  lasted  only  five  months  and,  despite 
some  battlefield  victories  by  Bhutanese  forces,  resulted  in  Bhutan's 
defeat,  loss  of  part  of  its  sovereign  territory,  and  forced  cession  of 
formerly  occupied  territories.  Under  the  terms  of  the  Treaty  of  Sin- 
chula,  signed  on  November  11,  1865,  Bhutan  ceded  territories  in 
the  Assam  Duars  and  Bengal  Duars,  as  well  as  the  eighty-three- 
square-kilometer  territory  of  Dewangiri  in  southeastern  Bhutan, 
in  return  for  an  annual  subsidy  of  50,000  rupees. 


260 


Druk  Gyalpo  Jigme  Singye 
Wangchuck,  Bhutan's 
fourth  hereditary  monarch 
Courtesy  Permanent  Mission 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Bhutan, 
United  Nations 


In  the  1870s  and  1880s,  renewed  competition  among  regional 
rivals — primarily  the  pro-British  ponlop  of  Tongsa  and  the  anti- 
British,  pro-Tibetan  ponlop  of  Paro — resulted  in  the  ascendancy  of 
Ugyen  Wangchuck,  the  ponlop  of  Tongsa.  From  his  power  base  in 
central  Bhutan,  Ugyen  Wangchuck  had  defeated  his  political  ene- 
mies and  united  the  country  following  several  civil  wars  and  rebel- 
lions in  1882-85.  His  victory  came  at  a  time  of  crisis  for  the  central 
government,  however.  British  power  was  becoming  more  extensive 
to  the  south,  and  in  the  west  Tibet  had  violated  its  border  with  Sik- 
kim,  incurring  British  disfavor.  After  1,000  years  of  close  ties  with 
Tibet,  Bhutan  faced  the  threat  of  British  military  power  and  was 
forced  to  make  serious  geopolitical  decisions.  The  British,  seeking 
to  offset  potential  Russian  advances  in  Lhasa,  wanted  to  open  trade 
relations  with  Tibet.  Ugyen  Wangchuck  saw  the  opportunity  to  as- 
sist the  British  and  in  1903-4  volunteered  to  accompany  a  British 
mission  to  Lhasa  as  a  mediator.  For  his  services  in  securing  the 
Anglo-Tibetan  Convention  of  1904,  Ugyen  Wangchuck  was  knighted 
and  thereafter  continued  to  accrue  greater  power  in  Bhutan. 

Establishment  of  the  Hereditary  Monarchy,  1907 

Ugyen  Wangchuck' s  emergence  as  the  national  leader  coincid- 
ed with  the  realization  that  the  dual  political  system  was  obsolete 
and  ineffective.  He  had  removed  his  chief  rival,  the  ponlop  of  Paro, 
and  installed  a  supporter  and  relative,  a  member  of  the  pro-British 


261 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Dorji  family,  in  his  place.  When  the  last  shabdrung  died  in  1903 
and  a  reincarnation  had  not  appeared  by  1906,  civil  administra- 
tion came  under  the  control  of  Ugyen  Wangchuck.  Finally,  in  1907, 
the  fifty-fourth  and  last  druk  desi  was  forced  to  retire,  and  despite 
recognitions  of  subsequent  reincarnations  of  Ngawang  Namgyal, 
the  shabdrung  system  came  to  an  end. 

In  November  1907,  an  assembly  of  leading  Buddhist  monks, 
government  officials,  and  heads  of  important  families  was  held  to 
end  the  moribund  300-year-old  dual  system  of  government  and 
to  establish  a  new  absolute  monarchy.  Ugyen  Wangchuck  was  elect- 
ed its  first  hereditary  Druk  Gyalpo  (Dragon  King,  reigned  1907-26; 
see  The  Monarchy,  this  ch.).  The  Dorji  family  became  hereditary 
holders  of  the  position  of  gongzim  (chief  chamberlain),  the  top 
government  post.  The  British,  wanting  political  stability  on  their 
northern  frontier,  approved  of  the  entire  development. 

Britain's  earlier  entreaties  in  Lhasa  had  unexpected  repercus- 
sions at  this  time.  China,  concerned  that  Britain  would  seize  Tibet, 
invaded  Tibet  in  1910  and  asserted  political  authority.  In  the  face 
of  the  Chinese  military  occupation,  the  Dalai  Lama  fled  to  India. 
China  laid  claim  not  only  to  Tibet  but  also  to  Bhutan,  Nepal,  and 
Sikkim.  With  these  events,  Bhutanese-British  interests  coalesced. 

A  new  Bhutanese-British  agreement,  the  Treaty  of  Punakha,  was 
signed  on  January  8,  1910.  It  amended  two  articles  of  the  1865 
treaty:  the  British  agreed  to  double  their  annual  stipend  to  100,000 
rupees  and  "to  exercise  no  interference  in  the  internal  adminis- 
tration of  Bhutan."  In  turn,  Bhutan  agreed  "to  be  guided  by  the 
advice  of  the  British  Government  in  regard  to  its  external  relations." 
The  Treaty  of  Punakha  guaranteed  Bhutan's  defense  against  China; 
China,  in  no  position  to  contest  British  power,  conceded  the  end 
of  the  millennium-long  Tibetan-Chinese  influence. 

Much  of  Bhutan's  modern  development  has  been  attributed  by 
Bhutanese  historians  to  the  first  Druk  Gyalpo.  Internal  reforms 
included  introducing  Western-style  schools,  improving  internal 
communications,  encouraging  trade  and  commerce  with  India,  and 
revitalizing  the  Buddhist  monastic  system.  Toward  the  end  of  his 
life,  Ugyen  Wangchuck  was  concerned  about  the  continuity  of  the 
family  dynasty,  and  in  1924  he  sought  British  assurance  that  the 
Wangchuck  family  would  retain  its  preeminent  position  in  Bhu- 
tan. His  request  led  to  an  investigation  of  the  legal  status  of  Bhu- 
tan vis-a-vis  the  suzerainty  held  over  Bhutan  by  Britain  and  the 
ambiguity  of  Bhutan's  relationship  to  India.  Both  the  suzerainty 
and  the  ambiguity  were  maintained. 


262 


Bhutan 


Development  of  Centralized  Government,  1926-52 

Ugyen  Wangchuck  died  in  1926  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son, 
Jigme  Wangchuck  (reigned  1926-52).  The  second  Druk  Gyalpo 
continued  his  father's  centralization  and  modernization  efforts  and 
built  more  schools,  dispensaries,  and  roads.  During  Jigme  Wang- 
chuck's  reign,  monasteries  and  district  governments  were  increas- 
ingly brought  under  royal  control.  However,  Bhutan  generally 
remained  isolated  from  international  affairs. 

The  issue  of  Bhutan's  status  vis-a-vis  the  government  of  India 
(was  Bhutan  a  state  of  India  or  did  it  enjoy  internal  sovereignty?) 
was  reexamined  by  London  in  1932  as  part  of  the  issue  of  the  sta- 
tus of  India  itself.  It  was  decided  to  leave  the  decision  to  join  an 
Indian  federation  up  to  Bhutan  when  the  time  came.  When  Brit- 
ish rule  over  India  ended  in  1947,  so  too  did  Britain's  association 
with  Bhutan.  India  succeeded  Britain  as  the  de  facto  protector  of 
the  Himalayan  kingdom,  and  Bhutan  retained  control  over  its  in- 
ternal government.  It  was  two  years,  however,  before  a  formal 
agreement  recognized  Bhutan's  independence. 

Following  the  precedent  set  by  the  Treaty  of  Punakha,  on  Au- 
gust 8,  1949,  Thimphu  signed  the  Treaty  of  Friendship  Between 
the  Government  of  India  and  the  Government  of  Bhutan,  accord- 
ing to  which  external  affairs,  formerly  guided  by  Britain,  were  to 
be  guided  by  India  (see  Foreign  Relations,  this  ch.).  Like  Britain, 
India  agreed  not  to  interfere  in  Bhutan's  internal  affairs.  India  also 
agreed  to  increase  the  annual  subsidy  to  500,000  rupees  per  year. 
Important  to  Bhutan's  national  pride  was  the  return  of  Dewan- 
giri.  Some  historians  believe  that  if  India  had  been  at  odds  with 
China  at  this  time,  as  it  was  to  be  a  decade  later,  it  might  not  have 
acceded  so  easily  to  Bhutan's  request  for  independent  status. 

Modernization  under  Jigme  Dorji,  1952-72 

The  third  Druk  Gyalpo,  Jigme  Dorji  Wangchuck,  was  enthroned 
in  1952.  Earlier  he  had  married  the  European-educated  cousin  of 
the  chogyal  (king)  of  Sikkim  and  with  her  support  made  continual 
efforts  to  modernize  his  nation  throughout  his  twenty-year  reign. 
Among  his  first  reforms  was  the  establishment  of  the  National 
Assembly — the  Tshogdu — in  1953.  Although  the  Druk  Gyalpo 
could  issue  royal  decrees  and  exercise  veto  power  over  resolutions 
passed  by  the  National  Assembly,  its  establishment  was  a  major 
move  toward  a  constitutional  monarchy  (see  Structure  of  the 
Government,  this  ch.). 

When  the  Chinese  communists  took  over  Tibet  in  1951 ,  Bhutan 
closed  its  frontier  with  Tibet  and  sided  with  its  powerful  neighbor 


263 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

to  the  south.  To  offset  the  chance  of  Chinese  encroachment,  Bhu- 
tan began  a  modernization  program.  Land  reform  was  accompa- 
nied by  the  abolition  of  slavery  and  serfdom  and  the  separation 
of  the  judiciary  from  the  executive  branch  of  government.  Mostly 
funded  by  India  after  China's  invasion  of  Tibet  in  1959,  the  modern- 
ization program  also  included  the  construction  of  roads  linking  the 
Indian  plains  with  central  Bhutan.  An  all-weather  road  was  com- 
pleted in  1962  between  Thimphu  and  Phuntsholing,  the  overland 
gateway  town  on  the  southwest  border  with  India.  Dzongkha  was 
made  the  national  language  during  Jigme  Dorji's  reign  (see  Social 
System,  this  ch.).  Additionally,  development  projects  included  es- 
tablishing such  institutions  as  a  national  museum  in  Paro  and  a 
national  library,  national  archives,  and  national  stadium,  as  well 
as  buildings  to  house  the  National  Assembly,  the  High  Court 
(Thrimkhang  Gongma),  and  other  government  entities  in  Thim- 
phu. The  position  of  gongzim,  held  since  1907  by  the  Dorji  family, 
was  upgraded  in  1958  to  lonchen  (prime  minister)  and  was  still  in 
the  hands  of  the  Dorji.  Jigme  Dorji  Wangchuck's  reforms,  however, 
although  lessening  the  authority  of  the  absolute  monarchy,  also 
curbed  the  traditional  decentralization  of  political  authority  among 
regional  leaders  and  strengthened  the  role  of  the  central  govern- 
ment in  economic  and  social  programs. 

Modernization  efforts  moved  forward  in  the  1960s  under  the 
direction  of  the  lonchen,  Jigme  Palden  Dorji,  the  Druk  Gyalpo's 
brother-in-law.  In  1962,  however,  Dorji  incurred  disfavor  with  the 
Royal  Bhutan  Army  over  the  use  of  military  vehicles  and  the  forced 
retirement  of  some  fifty  officers.  Religious  elements  also  were 
antagonized  by  Dorji's  efforts  to  reduce  the  power  of  the  state- 
supported  religious  institutions.  In  April  1964,  while  the  Druk  Gyal- 
po  was  in  Switzerland  for  medical  care,  Dorji  was  assassinated  in 
Phuntsholing  by  an  army  corporal.  The  majority  of  those  arrested 
and  accused  of  the  crime  were  military  personnel  and  included  the 
army  chief  of  operations,  Namgyal  Bahadur,  the  Druk  Gyalpo's 
uncle,  who  was  executed  for  his  part  in  the  plot. 

The  unstable  situation  continued  under  Dorji's  successor  as  acting 
lonchen,  his  brother  Lhendup  Dorji,  and  for  a  time  under  the  Druk 
Gyalpo's  brother,  Namgyal  Wangchuck,  as  head  of  the  army.  Accord- 
ing to  some  sources,  a  power  struggle  ensued  between  pro-Wang- 
chuck  loyalists  and  "modernist"  Dorji  supporters.  The  main  issue 
was  not  an  end  to  or  lessening  of  the  power  of  the  monarchy  but 
"full  freedom  from  Indian  interference."  Other  observers  believe 
the  1964  crisis  was  not  so  much  a  policy  struggle  as  competition 
for  influence  on  the  palace  between  the  Dorji  family  and  the  Druk 
Gyalpo's  Tibetan  mistress,  Yangki,  and  her  father.  Nevertheless, 


264 


Bhutan 


with  the  concurrence  of  the  National  Assembly,  Lhendup  Dorji 
and  other  family  members  were  exiled  in  1965.  The  tense  political 
situation  continued,  however,  with  an  assassination  attempt  on  the 
Druk  Gyalpo  himself  in  July  1965.  The  Dorjis  were  not  implicat- 
ed in  the  attempt,  and  the  would-be  assassins  were  pardoned  by 
the  Druk  Gyalpo. 

In  1966,  to  increase  the  efficiency  of  government  administra- 
tion, Jigme  Dorji  Wangchuck  made  Thimphu  the  year-round  cap- 
ital. In  May  1968,  the  comprehensive  Rules  and  Regulations  of 
the  National  Assembly  revised  the  legal  basis  of  the  power  granted 
to  the  National  Assembly.  The  Druk  Gyalpo  decreed  that  henceforth 
sovereign  power,  including  the  power  to  remove  government 
ministers  and  the  Druk  Gyalpo  himself,  would  reside  with  the  Na- 
tional Assembly.  The  following  November,  the  Druk  Gyalpo 
renounced  his  veto  power  over  National  Assembly  bills  and  said 
he  would  step  down  if  two-thirds  of  the  legislature  passed  a  no- 
confidence  vote.  Although  he  did  nothing  to  undermine  the  reten- 
tion of  the  Wangchuck  dynasty,  the  Druk  Gyalpo  in  1969  called 
for  a  triennial  vote  of  confidence  by  the  National  Assembly  (later 
abolished  by  his  successor)  to  renew  the  Druk  Gyalpo 's  mandate 
to  rule. 

Diplomatic  overtures  also  were  made  during  Jigme  Dorji  Wang- 
chuck's  reign.  Although  always  seeking  to  be  formally  neutral  and 
nonaligned  in  relations  with  China  and  India,  Bhutan  also  sought 
more  direct  links  internationally  than  had  occurred  previously  under 
the  foreign-policy  guidance  of  India.  Consequently,  in  1962  Bhu- 
tan joined  the  Colombo  Plan  for  Cooperative,  Economic,  and 
Social  Development  in  Asia  and  the  Pacific  (Colombo  Plan;  see 
Glossary)  and  in  1 966  notified  India  of  its  desire  to  become  a  mem- 
ber of  the  United  Nations  (UN).  In  1971  after  holding  observer 
status  for  three  years,  Bhutan  was  admitted  to  the  UN.  In  an  ef- 
fort to  maintain  Bhutan  as  a  stable  buffer  state,  India  continued 
to  provide  substantial  amounts  of  development  aid. 

Jigme  Dorji  Wangchuck  ruled  until  his  death  in  July  1972  and 
was  succeeded  by  his  seventeen-year-old  son,  Jigme  Singye  Wang- 
chuck. The  close  ties  of  the  Wangchuck  and  Dorji  families  were 
reemphasized  in  the  person  of  the  new  king,  whose  mother,  Ashi 
Kesang  Dorji  {ashi  means  princess),  was  the  sister  of  the  lonchen, 
Jigme  Palden  Dorji.  Jigme  Singye  Wangchuck,  who  had  been  edu- 
cated in  India  and  Britain,  had  been  appointed  ponlop  of  Tongsa 
in  May  1972  and  by  July  that  year  had  become  the  Druk  Gyalpo. 
With  his  mother  and  two  elder  sisters  as  advisers,  the  new  Druk 
Gyalpo  was  thrust  into  the  affairs  of  state.  He  was  often  seen 
among  the  people,  in  the  countryside,  at  festivals,  and,  as  his  reign 


265 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

progressed,  meeting  with  foreign  dignitaries  in  Bhutan  and  abroad. 
His  formal  coronation  took  place  in  June  1974,  and  soon  there- 
after the  strains  between  the  Wangchucks  and  Dorjis  were  relieved 
with  the  return  that  year  of  the  exiled  members  of  the  latter  family. 
The  reconciliation,  however,  was  preceded  by  reports  of  a  plot  to 
assassinate  the  new  Druk  Gyalpo  before  his  coronation  could  take 
place  and  to  set  fire  to  the  Tashichhodzong  (Fortress  of  the  Glori- 
ous Religion,  the  seat  of  government  in  Thimphu).  Yangki  was 
the  alleged  force  behind  the  plot,  which  was  uncovered  three  months 
before  the  coronation;  thirty  persons  were  arrested,  including  high 
government  and  police  officials. 

Entering  the  Outside  World,  1972-86 

When  civil  war  broke  out  in  Pakistan  in  1971 ,  Bhutan  was  among 
the  first  nations  to  recognize  the  new  government  of  Bangladesh, 
and  formal  diplomatic  relations  were  established  in  1973.  An  event 
in  1975  may  have  served  as  a  major  impetus  to  Bhutan  to  speed 
up  reform  and  modernization.  In  that  year,  neighboring  Sikkim's 
monarchy,  which  had  endured  for  more  than  300  years,  was  oust- 
ed following  a  plebiscite  in  which  the  Nepalese  majority  outvoted 
the  Sikkimese  minority.  Sikkim,  long  a  protectorate  of  India,  be- 
came India's  twenty-second  state. 

To  further  ensure  its  independence  and  international  position, 
Bhutan  gradually  established  diplomatic  relations  with  other  na- 
tions and  joined  greater  numbers  of  regional  and  international  or- 
ganizations. Many  of  the  countries  with  which  Bhutan  established 
relations  provided  development  aid  (see  Foreign  Economic  Rela- 
tions, this  ch.).  Moderization  brought  new  problems  to  Bhutan  in 
the  late  1980s  (see  Political  Developments,  this  ch.). 

The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

Geography 

The  Land 

Landlocked  Bhutan  is  situated  in  the  eastern  Himalayas  and  is 
mostly  mountainous  and  heavily  forested.  It  is  bordered  for  470 
kilometers  by  Tibet  (China's  Xizang  Autonomous  Region)  to  the 
north  and  northwest  and  for  605  kilometers  by  India's  states  of 
Sikkim  to  the  west,  West  Bengal  to  the  southwest,  Assam  to  the 
south  and  southeast,  and  Arunachal  Pradesh  (formerly  the  North- 
East  Frontier  Agency)  to  the  east.  Sikkim,  an  eighty-eight-kilometer- 
wide  territory,  divides  Bhutan  from  Nepal,  while  West  Bengal 
separates  Bhutan  from  Bangladesh  by  only  sixty  kilometers.  At  its 
longest  east- west  dimension,  Bhutan  stretches  around  300  kilometers; 


266 


Figure  14.  Bhutan:  Topography  and  Drainage 
268 


Bhutan 


it  measures  170  kilometers  at  its  maximum  north-south  dimension, 
forming  a  total  of  46,500  square  kilometers,  an  area  one-third  the 
size  of  Nepal.  In  the  mid-1980s,  about  70  percent  of  Bhutan  was 
covered  with  forests;  10  percent  was  covered  with  year-round  snow 
and  glaciers;  nearly  6  percent  was  permanently  cultivated  or  used 
for  human  habitation;  another  3  percent  was  used  for  shifting  cul- 
tivation (tsheri),  a  practice  banned  by  the  government;  and  5  per- 
cent was  used  as  meadows  and  pastures.  The  rest  of  the  land  was 
either  barren  rocky  areas  or  scrubland. 

Early  British  visitors  to  Bhutan  reported  "dark  and  steep  glens, 
and  the  high  tops  of  mountains  lost  in  the  clouds,  constituting] 
altogether  a  scene  of  extraordinary  magnificence  and  sublimity." 
One  of  the  most  rugged  mountain  terrains  in  the  world,  it  has  ele- 
vations ranging  from  160  meters  to  more  than  7,000  meters  above 
sea  level,  in  some  cases  within  distances  of  less  than  100  kilome- 
ters of  each  other.  Bhutan's  highest  peak,  at  7,554  meters  above 
sea  level,  is  north-central  Kulha  Gangri,  close  to  the  border  with 
China;  the  second  highest  peak,  Chomo  Lhari,  overlooking  the 
Chumbi  Valley  in  the  west,  is  7,314  meters  above  sea  level;  nineteen 
other  peaks  exceed  7,000  meters  (see  fig.  14). 

In  the  north,  the  snowcapped  Great  Himalayan  Range  reaches 
heights  of  over  7,500  meters  above  sea  level  and  extends  along  the 
Bhutan-China  border.  The  northern  region  consists  of  an  arc  of 
glaciated  mountain  peaks  with  an  arctic  climate  at  the  highest  ele- 
vations. Watered  by  snow-fed  rivers,  alpine  valleys  in  this  region 
provide  pasturage  for  livestock  tended  by  a  sparse  population  of 
migratory  shepherds. 

The  Inner  Himalayas  are  southward  spurs  of  the  Great  Hima- 
layan Range.  The  Black  Mountains,  in  central  Bhutan,  form  a 
watershed  between  two  major  river  systems,  the  Mo  Chhu  and  the 
Drangme  Chhu  {chhu  means  river).  Peaks  in  the  Black  Mountains 
range  between  1 ,500  meters  and  2,700  meters  above  sea  level,  and 
the  fast-flowing  rivers  have  carved  out  spectacular  gorges  in  the 
lower  mountain  areas.  The  woodlands  of  the  central  region  pro- 
vide most  of  Bhutan's  valuable  forest  production.  Eastern  Bhutan 
is  divided  by  another  southward  spur,  the  Donga  Range.  Western 
Bhutan  has  fertile,  cultivated  valleys  and  terraced  river  basins. 

In  the  south,  the  Southern  Hills,  or  Siwalik  Hills,  the  foothills 
of  the  Himalayas,  are  covered  with  dense  deciduous  forest,  alluvi- 
al lowland  river  valleys,  and  mountains  that  reach  to  around  1 ,500 
meters  above  sea  level.  The  foothills  descend  into  the  subtropical 
Duars  Plain.  Most  of  the  Duars  Plain  proper  is  located  in  India, 
and  ten  to  fifteen  kilometers  penetrate  inside  Bhutan.  The  Bhutan 
Duars  has  two  parts.  The  northern  Duars,  which  abuts  the 


269 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Himalayan  foothills,  has  rugged,  slopping  terrain  and  dry  porous 
soil  with  dense  vegetation  and  abundant  wildlife.  The  southern 
Duars  has  moderately  fertile  soil,  heavy  savanna  grass,  dense  mixed 
jungle,  and  freshwater  springs.  Taken  as  a  whole,  the  Duars 
provides  the  greatest  amount  of  fertile  fladands  in  Bhutan.  Rice 
and  other  crops  are  grown  on  the  plains  and  mountainsides  up  to 
1,200  meters.  Bhutan's  most  important  commercial  centers — 
Phuntsholing,  Geylegphug,  and  Samdrup  Jongkhar — are  located 
in  the  Duars,  reflecting  the  meaning  of  the  name,  which  is  derived 
from  the  Hindi  dwar  and  means  gateway.  Rhinoceros,  tigers, 
leopards,  elephants,  and  other  wildlife  inhabit  the  region. 

Climate 

Bhutan's  climate  is  as  varied  as  its  altitudes  and,  like  most  of 
Asia,  is  affected  by  monsoons.  Western  Bhutan  is  particularly  af- 
fected by  monsoons  that  bring  between  60  and  90  percent  of  the 
region's  rainfall.  The  climate  is  humid  and  subtropical  in  the 
southern  plains  and  foothills,  temperate  in  the  inner  Himalayan 
valleys  of  the  southern  and  central  regions,  and  cold  in  the  north, 
with  year-round  snow  on  the  main  Himalayan  summits. 

Temperatures  vary  according  to  elevation.  Temperatures  in 
Thimphu,  located  at  2,200  meters  above  sea  level  in  west-central 
Bhutan,  range  from  approximately  15°C  to  26°C  during  the  mon- 
soon season  of  June  through  September  but  drop  to  between  about 
-  4°C  and  16°C  in  January  (see  table  22,  Appendix).  Most  of  the 
central  portion  of  the  country  experiences  a  cool,  temperate  cli- 
mate year-round.  In  the  south,  a  hot,  humid  climate  helps  main- 
tain a  fairly  even  temperature  range  of  between  15°C  and  30°C 
year-round,  although  temperatures  sometimes  reach  40 °C  in  the 
valleys  during  the  summer. 

Annual  precipitation  ranges  widely  in  various  parts  of  the  coun- 
try. In  the  severe  climate  of  the  north,  there  is  only  about  forty 
millimeters  of  annual  precipitation — primarily  snow.  In  the  tem- 
perate central  regions,  a  yearly  average  of  around  1 ,000  millimeters 
is  more  common,  and  7,800  millimeters  per  year  has  been  registered 
at  some  locations  in  the  humid,  subtropical  south,  ensuring  the 
thick  tropical  forest,  or  savanna.  Thimphu  experiences  dry  winter 
months  (December  through  February)  and  almost  no  precipitation 
until  March,  when  rainfall  averages  20  millimeters  a  month  and 
increases  steadily  thereafter  to  a  high  of  220  millimeters  in  August 
for  a  total  annual  rainfall  of  nearly  650  millimeters. 

Bhutan's  generally  dry  spring  starts  in  early  March  and  lasts 
until  mid- April.  Summer  weather  commences  in  mid- April  with 
occasional  showers  and  continues  through  the  premonsoon  rains 


270 


Bhutan 


of  late  June.  The  summer  monsoon  lasts  from  late  June  through 
late  September  with  heavy  rains  from  the  southwest.  The  monsoon 
weather,  blocked  from  its  northward  progress  by  the  Himalayas, 
brings  heavy  rains,  high  humidity,  flash  floods  and  landslides,  and 
numerous  misty,  overcast  days.  Autumn,  from  late  September  or 
early  October  to  late  November,  follows  the  rainy  season.  It  is 
characterized  by  bright,  sunny  days  and  some  early  snowfalls  at 
higher  elevations.  From  late  November  until  March,  winter  sets 
in,  with  frost  throughout  much  of  the  country  and  snowfall  com- 
mon above  elevations  of  3,000  meters.  The  winter  northeast  mon- 
soon brings  gale-force  winds  down  through  high  mountain  passes, 
giving  Bhutan  its  name — Drukyul,  which  in  the  Dzongkha  lan- 
guage means  Land  of  the  Thunder  Dragon. 

River  Systems 

Bhutan  has  four  major  river  systems:  the  Drangme  Chhu;  the 
Puna  Tsang  Chhu,  also  called  the  Sankosh;  the  Wang  Chhu;  and 
the  Torsa  Chhu.  Each  flows  swiftly  out  of  the  Himalayas,  southerly 
through  the  Duars  to  join  the  Brahmaputra  River  in  India,  and 
thence  through  Bangladesh  where  the  Brahmaputra  (or  Jamuna 
in  Bangladesh)  joins  the  mighty  Ganges  (or  Padma  in  Bangladesh) 
to  flow  into  the  Bay  of  Bengal.  The  largest  river  system,  the 
Drangme  Chhu,  flows  southwesterly  from  India's  state  of  Arunachal 
Pradesh  and  has  three  major  branches:  the  Drangme  Chhu, 
Mangde  Chhu,  and  Bumthang  Chhu.  These  branches  form  the 
Drangme  Chhu  basin,  which  spreads  over  most  of  eastern  Bhutan 
and  drains  the  Tongsa  and  Bumthang  valleys.  In  the  Duars,  where 
eight  tributaries  join  it,  the  Drangme  Chhu  is  called  the  Manas 
Chhu.  The  320-kilometer-long  Puna  Tsang  Chhu  rises  in  north- 
western Bhutan  as  the  Mo  Chhu  and  Pho  Chhu,  which  are  fed 
by  the  snows  from  the  Great  Himalayan  Range.  They  flow  souther- 
ly to  Punakha,  where  they  join  to  form  the  Puna  Tsang  Chhu,  which 
flows  southerly  into  India's  state  of  West  Bengal.  The  tributaries 
of  the  370-kilometer-long  Wang  Chhu  rise  in  Tibet.  The  Wang 
Chhu  itself  flows  southeasterly  through  west-central  Bhutan,  drains 
the  Ha,  Paro,  and  Thimphu  valleys,  and  continues  into  the  Du- 
ars, where  it  enters  West  Bengal  as  the  Raigye  Chhu.  The  smallest 
river  system,  the  Torsa  Chhu,  known  as  the  Amo  Chhu  in  its  north- 
ern reaches,  also  flows  out  of  Tibet  into  the  Chumbi  Valley  and 
swiftly  through  western  Bhutan  before  broadening  near  Phuntsho- 
ling  and  then  flowing  into  India. 

Glaciers 

Glaciers  in  northern  Bhutan,  which  cover  about  10  percent  of 


271 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

the  total  surface  area,  are  an  important  renewable  source  of  water 
for  Bhutan's  rivers.  Fed  by  fresh  snow  each  winter  and  slow  melt- 
ing in  the  summer,  the  glaciers  bring  millions  of  liters  of  fresh  water 
to  Bhutan  and  downriver  areas  each  year.  Glacial  melt  added  to 
monsoon-swollen  rivers,  however,  also  contributes  to  flooding  and 
potential  disaster. 

Population 

Size,  Structure,  and  Settlement  Patterns 

When  Bhutan's  first  national  census  was  conducted  in  1969,  the 
population  officially  stood  at  930,614  persons.  Before  1969  popu- 
lation estimates  had  ranged  between  300,000  and  800,000  people. 
The  1969  census  has  been  criticized  as  inaccurate.  By  the  time  the 
1980  census  was  held,  the  population  reportedly  had  increased  to 
approximately  1,165,000  persons  (see  table  23,  Appendix).  The 
results  of  the  1988  census  had  not  been  released  as  of  1991,  but 
preliminary  government  projections  in  1988  set  the  total  popula- 
tion at  1 ,375,400  persons,  whereas  UN  estimates  stood  at  1 ,451 ,000 
people  in  1988.  Other  foreign  projections  put  the  population  at 
1,598,216  persons  in  July  1991.  It  is  likely,  however,  that  Bhu- 
tan's real  population  was  less  than  1  million  and  probably  as  little 
as  600,000  in  1990.  Moreover,  the  government  itself  began  to  use 
the  figure  of  "about  600,000  citizens"  in  late  1990. 

The  annual  growth  rate  in  1990  was  2  percent.  Although  the 
wide  variation  in  population  size  makes  all  projections  flawed,  ex- 
perts believe  that  the  population  growth  rate  is  valid.  The  birth 
rate  was  37  per  1,000,  and  the  death  rate  was  17  per  1,000.  In 
1988  UN  experts  had  estimated  Bhutan  would  have  a  population 
of  1.9  million  by  2000  and  3  million  by  2025.  The  average  annual 
population  growth  rate  was  estimated  at  1.9  percent  during  the 
period  from  1965  to  1970  and  1.8  percent  during  the  period  1980 
to  1985.  Rates  of  change  were  projected  to  increase  to  2.1  percent 
by  1990  and  2.3  percent  by  2000  and  to  decrease  to  1.41  percent 
by  2025.  Total  fertility  rates  (the  average  number  of  children  born 
during  a  woman's  reproductive  years)  have  declined  since  the  1950s, 
however.  The  rate  stood  at  6.0  in  1955  and  5.5  in  1985  and  was 
expected  to  decline  to  3.7  by  2005  and  2.5  by  2025.  The  infant 
mortality  rate  was  the  highest  in  South  Asia  in  1990:  137  deaths 
per  1 ,000  live  births.  Despite  the  declining  population  growth  most 
of  Bhutan's  people  were  young.  By  the  late  1980s,  45  percent  of 
the  population  was  under  fifteen  years  of  age.  However,  the  greater 
number  of  female  infant  deaths  resulted  in  one  of  the  world's  lowest 
male-female  ratios  (97.2  females  to  100  males;  see  fig.  15). 


272 


Bhutan 


Life  expectancy  at  birth  had  increased  significantly  since  the 
1950s,  when  it  stood  at  only  36.3  years.  By  the  early  1980s,  life 
expectancy  had  reached  45.9  years.  In  1989  the  UN  projected  that 
life  expectancy  at  birth  in  Bhutan  would  reach  55.5  years  by  2005 
and  61.8  years  by  2025,  still  low  compared  with  other  South  Asian 
countries  and  with  the  other  least  developed  nations  of  the  world. 

Overall  population  density  was  thirty-one  persons  per  square 
kilometer  in  the  late  1980s,  but  because  of  the  rugged  terrain  dis- 
tribution was  more  dense  in  settled  areas.  The  regions  in  the 
southern  Duars  valleys  and  eastern  Bhutan  around  the  fertile 
Tashigang  Valley  were  the  most  populous  areas.  As  was  common 
among  the  least  developed  nations,  there  was  a  trend,  albeit  small, 
toward  urbanization.  Whereas  in  1970  only  3  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation lived  in  urban  settings,  the  percentage  had  increased  to  5 
percent  in  1985.  UN  specialists  projected  the  urban  population 
would  reach  8  percent  by  2000.  With  the  exception  of  Tuvalu,  Bhu- 
tan had  the  lowest  urban  population  of  any  country  among  the  forty- 
one  least  developed  nations  of  the  world. 

Thimphu,  the  capital,  the  largest  urban  area,  had  a  population 
of  27,000  persons  in  1990.  Most  employed  residents  of  Thimphu, 
some  2,860  in  1990,  were  government  employees.  Another  2,200 
persons  worked  in  private  businesses  and  cottage  industries.  The 
city  advanced  toward  modernization  in  1987  with  the  installation 
of  meters  to  regulate  water  consumption,  the  naming  of  its  streets, 
and  the  erection  of  street  signs.  The  only  other  urban  area  with 
a  population  of  more  than  10,000  residents  was  Phuntsholing  in 
Chhukha  District. 

Ethnic  Groups 

Bhutan's  society  is  made  up  of  four  broad  but  not  necessarily 
exclusive  groups:  the  Ngalop,  the  Sharchop,  several  aboriginal  peo- 
ples, and  Nepalese.  The  Ngalop  (a  term  thought  to  mean  the  earliest 
risen  or  first  converted)  are  people  of  Tibetan  origin  who  migrat- 
ed to  Bhutan  as  early  as  the  ninth  century.  For  this  reason,  they 
are  often  referred  to  in  foreign  literature  as  Bhote  (people  of  Bho- 
tia  or  Tibet).  The  Ngalop  are  concentrated  in  western  and  north- 
ern districts.  They  introduced  Tibetan  culture  and  Buddhism  to 
Bhutan  and  comprised  the  dominant  political  and  cultural  element 
in  modern  Bhutan. 

The  Sharchop  (the  word  means  easterner),  an  Indo-Mongoloid 
people  who  are  thought  to  have  migrated  from  Assam  or  possibly 
Burma  during  the  past  millennium,  comprise  most  of  the  popula- 
tion of  eastern  Bhutan.  Although  long  the  biggest  ethnic  group  in 
Bhutan,  the  Sharchop  have  been  largely  assimilated  into  the 
Tibetan-Ngalop  culture.  Because  of  their  proximity  to  India,  some 


273 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


AGE-GROUP 

80  and  over 
75-79 
70-74 
65-69 
60-64 
55-59 
50-54 
45-49 
40-44 
35-39 
30-34 
25-29 
20-24 
15-19 
10-14 
5-9 
0-4 


- 

a 

E 

a 

MALES 

■Z 

a 

FEMALES 

1 

X3 

1 

XX 

XX) 

i 

xx> 

1 

■ 

xx> 

■ 

xx> 

xx> 

OQ 

xx> 

XK> 

<xx 

>4 

x>^ 

KX 

xx> 

KX3 

xx> 

KX> 

si 

XX> 

xx> 

XX 

XJ 

125  100   75    50   25    0     25    50   75  100  125 
POPULATION  IN  THOUSANDS 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Bhutan,  Planning  Commission,  Central  Statistical  Office, 
Statistical  Yearbook  of  Bhutan,  1989,  Thimphu,  May  1990,  2. 


Figure  15.  Bhutan:  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex,  1988 

speak  Assamese  or  Hindi.  They  practice  slash-and-burn  and  tsheri 
agriculture,  planting  dry-rice  crops  for  three  or  four  years  until 
the  soil  is  exhausted  and  then  moving  on. 

The  third  group  consists  of  small  aboriginal  or  indigenous  tribal 
peoples  living  in  scattered  villages  throughout  Bhutan.  Culturally 
and  linguistically  part  of  the  populations  of  West  Bengal  or  As- 
sam, they  embrace  the  Hindu  system  of  endogamous  groups  ranked 
by  hierarchy  and  practice  wet-rice  and  dry-rice  agriculture.  They 
include  the  Drokpa,  Lepcha,  and  Doya  tribes  as  well  as  the  descen- 
dants of  slaves  who  were  brought  to  Bhutan  from  similar  tribal  areas 
in  India.  The  ex-slave  communities  tended  to  be  near  traditional 
population  centers  because  it  was  there  that  they  had  been  pressed 
into  service  to  the  state.  Together,  the  Ngalop,  Sharchop,  and  tribal 
groups  were  thought  to  constitute  up  to  72  percent  of  the  popula- 
tion in  the  late  1980s. 


274 


Bhutan 


The  remaining  28  percent  of  the  population  were  of  Nepalese 
origin.  Officially,  the  government  stated  that  28  percent  of  the  na- 
tional population  was  Nepalese  in  the  late  1980s,  but  unofficial  es- 
timates ran  as  high  as  30  to  40  percent,  and  Nepalese  were  estimated 
to  constitute  a  majority  in  southern  Bhutan.  The  number  of  legal 
permanent  Nepalese  residents  in  the  late  1980s  may  have  been  as 
few  as  15  percent  of  the  total  population,  however.  The  first  small 
groups  of  Nepalese,  the  most  recent  of  the  major  groups  to  arrive 
in  Bhutan,  emigrated  primarily  from  eastern  Nepal  under  Indian 
auspices  in  the  late  nineteenth  and  early  twentieth  centuries.  Mosdy 
Hindus,  the  Nepalese  settled  in  the  southern  foothills  and  are  some- 
times referred  to  as  southern  Bhutanese.  Traditionally,  they  have 
been  involved  mosdy  in  sedentary  agriculture,  although  some  have 
cleared  forest  cover  and  conducted  tsheri  agriculture.  The  most  divi- 
sive issue  in  Bhutan  in  the  1980s  and  early  1990s  was  the  accom- 
modation of  the  Nepalese  Hindu  minority.  The  government 
traditionally  attempted  to  limit  immigration  and  restrict  residence 
and  employment  of  Nepalese  to  the  southern  region.  Liberaliza- 
tion measures  in  the  1970s  and  1980s  encouraged  intermarriage 
and  provided  increasing  opportunities  for  public  service.  More  in- 
country  migration  by  Nepalese  seeking  better  education  and  busi- 
ness opportunities  was  allowed. 

Bhutan  also  had  a  sizable  modern  Tibetan  refugee  population, 
which  stood  at  10,000  persons  in  1987.  The  major  influx  of  6,000 
persons  came  in  1959  in  the  wake  of  the  Chinese  army's  invasion 
and  occupation  of  Tibet.  The  Tibetan  expatriates  became  only  par- 
tially integrated  into  Bhutanese  society,  however,  and  many  were 
unwilling  to  accept  citizenship.  Perceiving  a  lack  of  allegiance  to 
the  state  on  the  part  of  Tibetans,  the  government  decided  in  1979 
to  expel  to  India  those  who  refused  citizenship.  India,  after  some 
reluctance,  acceded  to  the  move  and  accepted  more  than  3,100  Tibet- 
ans between  1980  and  1985.  Another  4,200  Tibetans  requested  and 
received  Bhutanese  citizenship.  Although  Bhutan  traditionally  wel- 
comed refugees — and  still  accepted  a  few  new  ones  fleeing  the  1989 
imposition  of  martial  law  in  Tibet — government  policy  in  the  late 
1980s  was  to  refuse  more  Tibetan  refugees. 

Languages 

Bhutanese  speak  one  or  more  of  four  major,  mutually  unintel- 
ligible languages.  Traditionally,  public  and  private  communica- 
tions, religious  materials,  and  official  documents  were  written  in 
chhokey,  the  classical  Tibetan  script,  and  a  Bhutanese  adaptive  cur- 
sive script  was  developed  for  correspondence.  In  modern  times, 
as  in  the  past,  chhokey,  which  exists  only  in  written  form,  was 


275 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

understood  only  by  the  well  educated.  The  official  national  lan- 
guage, Dzongkha  (language  of  the  dzong),  has  developed  since  the 
seventeenth  century.  A  sophisticated  form  of  the  Tibetan  dialect 
spoken  by  Ngalop  villagers  in  western  Bhutan,  it  is  based  primar- 
ily on  the  vernacular  speech  of  the  Punakha  Valley.  In  its  written 
form,  Dzongkha  uses  an  adaptive  cursive  script  based  on  chhokey 
to  express  the  Ngalop  spoken  language.  Ngalopkha  is  spoken  in 
six  regional  dialects  with  variations  from  valley  to  valley  and  vil- 
lage to  village;  Dzongkha,  however,  through  vigorous  government 
education  programs  had  become  widely  understood  throughout 
Bhutan  by  the  1970s. 

The  other  languages  include  Sharchopkha,  or  Tsangla,  a  Mon 
language  spoken  in  eastern  districts;  Bumthangkha,  an  aboriginal 
Khen  language  spoken  in  central  Bhutan;  and  Nepali,  or  Lhot- 
sam,  predominantly  spoken  in  the  south.  Seven  other  Khen  and 
Mon  languages  also  are  spoken  in  Bhutan.  Hindi  is  understood 
among  Bhutanese  educated  in  India  and  was  the  language  of  in- 
struction in  the  schools  at  Ha  and  Bumthang  in  the  early  1930s 
as  well  as  in  the  first  schools  in  the  "formal"  education  system 
from  the  beginning  of  the  1960s. 

Along  with  Dzongkha  and  English,  Nepali  was  once  one  of  the 
three  official  languages  used  in  Bhutan.  Dzongkha  was  taught  in 
grades  one  through  twelve  in  the  1980s.  English  was  widely  un- 
derstood and  was  the  medium  of  instruction  in  secondary  and 
higher-level  schools.  Starting  in  the  1980s,  college-level  textbooks 
in  Dzongkha  were  published,  and  in  1988  a  proposal  was  made 
to  standardize  Dzongkha  script.  Sharchopkha,  Bumthangkha,  and 
Nepali  also  were  used  in  primary  schools  in  areas  where  speakers 
of  those  languages  predominated.  In  1989,  however,  Nepali  was 
dropped  from  school  curricula. 

Part  of  the  government's  effort  to  preserve  traditional  culture 
and  to  strengthen  the  contemporary  sense  of  national  identity 
(driglam  namzha — national  customs  and  etiquette)  has  been  its  em- 
phasis on  Dzongkha-language  study.  The  Department  of  Educa- 
tion declared  in  1979  that  because  Dzongkha  was  the  national 
language,  it  was  "the  responsibility  of  each  and  every  Bhutanese 
to  learn  Dzongkha."  To  aid  in  language  study,  the  department 
also  published  a  Dzongkha  dictionary  in  1986. 

Social  System 

Society 

Bhutan's  traditional  society  has  been  defined  as  both  patriarchal 
and  matriarchal,  and  the  member  held  in  highest  esteem  served  as 


276 


Bhutan 


the  family's  head.  Bhutan  also  has  been  described  as  feudalistic 
and  characterized  by  the  absence  of  strong  social  stratification.  In 
premodern  times,  there  were  three  broad  classes:  the  monastic  com- 
munity, the  leadership  of  which  was  the  nobility;  lay  civil  servants 
who  ran  the  government  apparatus;  and  farmers,  the  largest  class, 
living  in  self-sufficient  villages.  In  the  more  militaristic  premodern 
era,  Bhutan  also  had  an  underclass  of  prisoners  of  war  and  their 
descendants,  who  were  generally  treated  as  serfs  or  even  as  slaves. 
In  modern  times,  society  was  organized  around  joint  family  units, 
and  a  class  division  existed  based  on  occupation  and,  in  time,  so- 
cial status.  With  the  introduction  of  foreign  practices  in  recent  cen- 
turies and  increasing  job  mobility  outside  the  village,  however, 
emphasis  has  been  placed  on  nuclear  family  units. 

Social  status  is  based  on  a  family's  economic  station.  Except 
among  the  Hindu  Nepalese  in  southern  Bhutan,  there  was  no  caste 
system.  Although  Bhutanese  were  endogamous  by  tradition, 
modern  practices  and  even  royal  decrees  encouraged  ethnic  integra- 
tion in  the  late  twentieth  century.  Primogeniture  dictated  the  right 
of  inheritance  traditionally,  although  in  some  central  areas  the  eld- 
est daughter  was  the  lawful  successor.  In  contemporary  Bhutan, 
however,  inheritance  came  to  be  more  equally  distributed  among 
all  children  of  a  family. 

Except  for  the  royal  family  and  a  few  other  noble  families, 
Bhutanese  do  not  have  surnames.  Individuals  normally  have  two 
names,  but  neither  is  considered  a  family  name  or  a  surname.  Some 
people  adopt  their  village  name,  occasionally  in  abbreviated  form, 
as  part  of  their  name,  using  it  before  their  given  name.  Wives  keep 
their  own  names,  and  children  frequently  have  names  unconnect- 
ed to  either  parent.  Some  individuals  educated  abroad  have  taken 
their  last  name  as  a  surname,  however.  A  system  of  tides,  depending 
on  age,  degree  of  familiarity,  and  social  or  official  status,  denotes 
ranks  and  relationships  among  members  of  society.  The  title  dasho, 
for  example,  is  an  honorific  used  by  a  prince  of  the  royal  house, 
a  commoner  who  marries  a  princess,  a  nephew  of  the  Druk  Gyal- 
po,  a  deputy  minister,  other  senior  government  officials,  and  others 
in  positions  of  authority. 

Although  adherents  of  Buddhism,  Bhutanese  are  not  vegetari- 
ans and  occasionally  eat  beef,  especially  in  western  Bhutan.  Pork, 
poultry,  goat  and  yak  meat,  and  fish  are  consumed  on  a  limited 
scale.  Rice  and  increasingly  corn  are  staples.  Despite  a  scarcity  of 
milk,  dairy  products,  such  as  yak  cheese  and  yak  cheese  byproducts, 
are  part  of  the  diet  of  upland  people.  Meat  soups,  rice  or  corn, 
and  curries  spiced  with  chilies  comprise  daily  menus;  beverages 


277 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

include  buttered  tea  and  beer  distilled  from  cereals.  Wild  vegeta- 
tion, such  as  young  ferns,  also  is  harvested  for  table  food. 

Traditional  clothing  still  was  commonly  worn  in  the  early  1990s, 
and,  indeed,  its  use  was  fostered  by  government  decree.  Women 
wore  the  kira,  an  ankle-length  dress  made  of  a  rectangular  piece 
of  cloth  held  at  the  shoulders  with  a  clip  and  closed  with  a  woven 
belt  at  the  waist,  over  a  long-sleeved  blouse.  Social  status  was  in- 
dicated by  the  amount  of  decorative  details  and  colors  of  the  kira 
and  the  quality  of  the  cloth  used.  Men  wore  the  gho,  a  wraparound, 
coatlike,  knee-length  garment,  with  a  narrow  belt.  Both  men  and 
women  sometimes  wore  elaborate  earrings,  and  both  sexes  also  wore 
scarves  or  shawls,  white  for  commoners  and  carefully  specified 
colors,  designs,  and  manners  of  folding  for  higher  ranking  individu- 
als. Only  the  Druk  Gyalpo  and  the  Je  Khenpo  were  allowed  to 
wear  the  honorific  saffron  scarf.  Other  officials  were  distinguished 
by  the  color  of  the  scarves  they  wore:  orange  for  ministers  and 
deputy  ministers,  blue  for  National  Assembly  and  Royal  Adviso- 
ry Council  members,  and  red  or  maroon  for  high  religious  and 
civil  officials,  district  officers,  and  judges  (anyone  holding  the  title 
of  dasho).  Stripes  on  scarves  of  the  same  base  color  denoted  greater 
or  lesser  ranks. 

Marriage  and  Family  Life 

The  traditional  practice,  arranged  marriages  based  on  family 
and  ethnic  ties,  has  been  replaced  in  the  late  twentieth  century  with 
marriages  based  on  mutual  affection.  Marriages  were  usually  ar- 
ranged by  the  partners  in  contemporary  Bhutan,  and  the  mini- 
mum age  was  sixteen  for  women  and  twenty-one  for  men.  The 
institution  of  child  marriage,  once  relatively  widespread,  had  largely 
declined  as  Bhutan  modernized,  and  there  were  only  remnants  of 
the  practice  in  the  late  twentieth  century.  Interethnic  marriages, 
once  forbidden,  were  encouraged  in  the  late  1980s  by  an  incentive 
of  a  Nu  10,000  (for  value  of  the  ngultrum — see  Glossary)  govern- 
ment stipend  to  willing  couples.  The  stipend  was  discontinued  in 
1991,  however.  Marriages  of  Bhutanese  citizens  to  foreigners, 
however,  have  been  discouraged.  Bhutanese  with  foreign  spouses 
were  not  allowed  to  obtain  civil  service  positions  and  could  have 
their  government  scholarships  cancelled  and  be  required  to  repay 
portions  already  received.  Foreign  spouses  were  not  entitled  to 
citizenship  by  right  but  had  to  apply  for  naturalization. 

Polyandry  was  abolished  and  polygamy  was  restricted  in  the  mid- 
twentieth  century,  but  the  law  in  the  1990s  still  allowed  a  man  as 
many  as  three  wives,  providing  he  had  the  first  wife's  permission. 
The  first  wife  also  had  the  power  to  sue  for  divorce  and  alimony 


278 


Bhutanese  girl,  wearing  traditional  kira  and  jewelry 
Courtesy  Bhutan  Travel,  Inc.,  New  York  (Marie  Brown) 

if  she  did  not  agree.  In  the  1980s,  divorce  was  common,  and  new 
laws  provided  better  benefits  to  women  seeking  alimony. 

Family  life,  both  traditionally  and  in  the  contemporary  period, 
was  likely  to  provide  for  a  fair  amount  of  self-sufficiency.  Fami- 
lies, for  example,  often  made  their  own  clothing,  bedding,  floor 
and  seat  covers,  tablecloths,  and  decorative  items  for  daily  and  re- 
ligious use.  Wool  was  the  primary  material,  but  domestic  silk  and 
imported  cotton  were  also  used  in  weaving  colorful  cloth,  often 
featuring  elaborate  geometric,  floral,  and  animal  designs.  Although 
weaving  was  normally  done  by  women  of  all  ages  using  family- 
owned  looms,  monks  sometimes  did  embroidery  and  applique  work. 
In  the  twentieth  century,  weaving  was  possibly  as  predominant  a 
feature  of  daily  life  as  it  was  at  the  time  of  Bhutan's  unification 
in  the  seventeenth  century. 

Landholdings  varied  depending  on  the  wealth  and  size  of  in- 
dividual families,  but  most  families  had  as  much  land  as  they  could 
farm  using  traditional  techniques.  A  key  element  of  family  life  was 
the  availability  of  labor.  Thus,  the  choice  of  the  home  of  newlyweds 
was  determined  by  which  parental  unit  had  the  greatest  need  of 
supplemental  labor.  If  both  families  had  a  sufficient  supply  of  labor, 
then  a  bride  and  groom  might  elect  to  set  up  their  own  home. 


279 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 
Role  of  Women 

Although  officially  the  government  has  encouraged  greater  par- 
ticipation of  women  in  political  and  administrative  life,  male  mem- 
bers of  the  traditional  aristocracy  dominate  the  social  system. 
Economic  development  has  increased  opportunities  for  women  to 
participate  in  fields  such  as  medicine,  both  as  physicians  and  nurses; 
teaching;  and  administration.  By  1989  nearly  10  percent  of  govern- 
ment employees  were  women,  and  the  top  civil  service  examina- 
tion graduate  in  1989  was  a  woman.  During  their  government 
careers,  women  civil  servants  were  allowed  three  months  materni- 
ty leave  with  full  pay  for  three  deliveries  and  leave  without  pay 
for  any  additional  deliveries.  Reflecting  the  dominance  of  males 
in  society,  girls  were  outnumbered  three  to  two  in  primary  and 
secondary -level  schools. 

Women  in  the  1980s  played  a  significant  role  in  the  agricultural 
work  force,  where  they  outnumbered  men,  who  were  leaving  for 
the  service  sector  and  other  urban  industrial  and  commercial  ac- 
tivities. In  the  mid-1980s,  95  percent  of  all  Bhutanese  women  from 
the  ages  of  fifteen  to  sixty-four  years  were  involved  in  agricultural 
work,  compared  with  only  78  percent  of  men  in  the  same  age  range. 
Foreign  observers  have  noted  that  women  shared  equally  with  men 
in  farm  labor.  Overall,  women  were  providing  more  labor  than 
men  in  all  sectors  of  the  economy.  Less  than  4  percent  of  the  total 
female  work  force  was  unemployed,  compared  with  nearly  10  per- 
cent of  men  who  had  no  occupation. 

The  government  founded  the  National  Women's  Association  of 
Bhutan  in  1981  primarily  to  improve  the  socioeconomic  status  of 
women,  particularly  those  in  rural  areas.  The  association,  at  its 
inaugural  session,  declared  that  it  would  not  push  for  equal  rights 
for  women  because  the  women  of  Bhutan  had  already  come  to  "en- 
joy equal  status  with  men  politically,  economically,  and  socially." 
To  give  prominence  to  the  association,  the  Druk  Gyalpo's  sister, 
Ashi  Sonam  Chhoden  Wangchuck,  was  appointed  its  president. 
Starting  in  1985,  the  association  became  a  line  item  in  the  govern- 
ment budget  and  was  funded  at  Nu2.4  million  in  fiscal  year  (FY — 
see  Glossary)  1992.  The  association  has  organized  annual  beauty 
contests  featuring  traditional  arts  and  culture,  fostered  training  in 
health  and  hygiene,  distributed  yarn  and  vegetable  seeds,  and  in- 
troduced smokeless  stoves  in  villages. 

Housing 

Bhutanese  housing  has  a  distinct  character  from  that  of  other 
Himalayan  countries.  Relatively  spacious  compared  with  those  of 


280 


Bhutan 


neighboring  societies,  houses  took  advantage  of  natural  light  and, 
because  of  the  steep  terrain,  were  usually  built  in  clusters  rather 
than  in  rows.  Timber,  stone,  clay,  and  brick  were  typical  construc- 
tion materials  in  upland  Ngalop  areas.  Family  residences  frequentiy 
had  three  stories,  with  room  for  livestock  on  the  first  or  ground 
story,  living  quarters  on  the  second  story,  additional  living  quar- 
ters and  storage  on  the  third  story,  and  an  open  space  between 
the  third  story  and  the  roof  for  open-air  storage.  Large  stones  were 
used  to  weigh  down  wooden  roofs  against  fierce  Himalayan  storms. 
Among  Buddhism's  contributions  to  Bhutan  were  its  rich  architec- 
tural embellishments.  The  walls  of  residences  and  public  buildings, 
inside  and  outside,  were  subject  to  colorful  decoration,  as  were  fur- 
niture, cupboards,  stairs,  window  frames,  doors,  and  fences.  Wood- 
en shutters  rather  than  scarce  glass  were  used  throughout  the  1980s. 
Buddhist  motifs  and  symbolic  colors  also  were  extensively  used. 
Sharchop  houses  of  stone  and  timber  were  sometimes  built  on  hill- 
sides. In  the  southern  areas  inhabited  by  Nepalese,  Assamese,  and 
Bengalis,  housing  was  more  likely  to  consist  of  bamboo  and  thatched 
roof  houses  and  mud  and  thatch  dwellings.  The  construction  of 
housing  often  was  a  cooperative  task  of  the  community. 

Festivals 

Bhutan  has  numerous  public  holidays,  most  of  which  center 
around  traditional  seasonal,  secular,  and  religious  festivals.  They 
include  winter  solstice  (around  January  1 ,  depending  on  the  lunar 
calendar),  lunar  new  year  (January  or  February),  the  Druk  Gyal- 
po's  birthday  and  the  anniversary  of  his  coronation,  the  official 
start  of  monsoon  season  (September  22),  National  Day  (Decem- 
ber 17),  and  various  Buddhist  and  Hindu  celebrations.  Even  the 
secular  holidays  have  religious  overtones,  including  religious  dances 
and  prayers  used  to  bless  the  day. 

Masked  dances  and  dance  dramas  are  common  traditional  fea- 
tures at  festivals.  Energetic  dancers  wearing  colorful  wooden  or 
composition  face  masks  employ  special  costumes  and  music  to  depict 
a  panoply  of  heroes,  demons,  death  heads,  animals,  gods,  and 
caricatures  of  common  people.  The  dances  enjoy  royal  patronage 
and  preserve  not  only  ancient  folk  and  religious  customs  but  also 
perpetuate  the  art  of  mask  making. 

Religious  Tradition 

Buddhism 

Mahay  ana  Buddhism  was  the  state  religion,  and  Buddhists 
comprised  about  70  percent  of  the  population  in  the  early  1990s. 


281 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Although  originating  from  Tibetan  Buddhism,  Bhutanese  Bud- 
dhism differs  significantly  in  its  rituals,  liturgy,  and  monastic  or- 
ganization. The  state  religion  has  long  been  supported  financially 
by  the  government  through  annual  subsidies  to  monasteries, 
shrines,  monks,  and  nuns.  In  the  modern  era,  support  of  the  state 
religion  during  the  reign  of  Jigme  Dorji  Wangchuck  included  the 
manufacture  of  10,000  gilded  bronze  images  of  the  Buddha,  pub- 
lication of  elegant  calligraphied  editions  of  the  108-volume  Kanjur 
(Collection  of  the  Words  of  the  Buddha)  and  the  225-volume  Tenjur 
(Collection  of  Commentaries),  and  the  construction  of  numerous 
chorten  (stupas)  throughout  the  country.  Guaranteed  representation 
in  the  National  Assembly  and  the  Royal  Advisory  Council,  Bud- 
dhists constituted  the  majority  of  society  and  were  assured  an  in- 
fluential voice  in  public  policy. 

In  1989  some  1,000  monks  {lam,  or  gelong,  novices)  belonged  to 
the  Central  Monastic  Body  in  Thimphu  and  Punakha,  and  some 
4,000  monks  belonged  to  district  monastic  bodies.  The  hierarchy 
was  headed  by  the  Je  Khenpo,  who  was  assisted  by  four  lonpon  or 
masters,  each  in  charge  of  religious  tradition,  liturgy,  lexicogra- 
phy, or  logic.  The  lonpon,  one  of  whom,  the  Dorji  Lonpon,  nor- 
mally succeeded  the  current  Je  Khenpo,  had  under  them  religious 
administrators  and  junior  monastic  officials  in  charge  of  art,  music, 
and  other  areas.  Gelugpa  monks  were  celibate,  but  Nyingmapa 
monks  were  not  so  restricted  and  could  marry,  raise  families,  and 
work  in  secular  occupations  while  performing  liturgical  functions 
in  temples  and  homes.  In  all,  there  were  some  12,000  monks  in 
Bhutan  in  the  late  1980s.  There  were  also  active  congregations  of 
nuns,  but  no  figures  were  readily  available. 

The  majority  of  Bhutan's  Buddhists  are  adherents  of  the  Druk- 
pa  subsect  of  the  Kargyupa  (literally,  oral  transmission)  school, 
one  of  the  four  major  schools  of  Tibetan  Buddhism,  which  is  itself 
a  combination  of  the  Theravada  (monastic),  Mahayana  (messian- 
ic), and  Tantrayana  (apocalyptic)  forms  of  Buddhism.  Tibetan 
Buddhism  holds  that  salvation  can  be  achieved  through  the  inter- 
cession of  compassionate  bodhisattvas  (enlightened  ones)  who  have 
delayed  their  own  entry  into  a  state  of  nibbana  (see  Glossary),  or 
nirvana,  enlightenment  and  selfless  bliss,  to  save  others.  Empha- 
sis is  put  on  the  doctrine  of  the  cosmic  Buddha,  of  whom  the  histor- 
ical Buddha — Siddhartha  Gautama  (ca.  563-ca.  483  B.C.) — was 
only  one  of  many  manifestations.  Bodhisattvas  are  in  practice  treat- 
ed more  as  deities  than  as  enlightened  human  beings  and  occupy 
the  center  of  a  richly  polytheistic  universe  of  subordinate  deities; 
opposing,  converted,  and  reformed  demons;  wandering  ghosts;  and 
saintly  humans  that  reflects  the  shamanistic  folk  religion  of  the 


282 


Bhutan 


regions  into  which  Buddhism  expanded.  Tantrism  contributed  eso- 
teric techniques  of  meditation  and  a  repertoire  of  sacred  icons, 
phrases,  gestures,  and  rituals  that  easily  lent  themselves  to  practi- 
cal (rather  than  transcendental)  and  magical  interpretation. 

The  Kargyupa  school  was  introduced  into  Tibet  from  India  and 
into  Bhutan  from  Tibet  in  the  eleventh  century.  The  central  teach- 
ing of  the  Kargyupa  school  is  meditation  on  mahamudra  (Sanskrit 
for  great  seal),  a  concept  tying  the  realization  of  emptiness  to  free- 
dom from  reincarnation.  Also  central  to  the  Kargyupa  school  are 
the  dharma  (laws  of  nature,  all  that  exists,  real  or  imaginary),  which 
consist  of  six  Tantric  meditative  practices  teaching  bodily  self-control 
so  as  to  achieve  nirvana.  One  of  the  key  aspects  of  the  Kargyupa 
school  is  the  direct  transmission  of  the  tenets  of  the  faith  from  teacher 
to  disciple.  The  Drukpa  subsect,  which  grew  out  of  one  of  the  four 
Kargyupa  sects,  was  the  preeminent  religious  belief  in  Bhutan  by 
the  end  of  the  twelfth  century  (see  Origins  and  Early  Settlement, 
A.D.  600-1600,  this  ch.). 

Monasteries  and  convents  were  common  throughout  Bhutan  in 
the  late  twentieth  century.  Both  monks  and  nuns  kept  their  heads 
shaved  and  wore  distinguishing  maroon  robes.  Their  days  were 
spent  in  study  and  meditation  but  also  in  the  performance  of  rituals 
honoring  various  bodhisattvas,  praying  for  the  dead,  and  seeking 
divine  intercession  on  behalf  of  the  ill.  Some  of  their  prayers  in- 
volved chants  and  singing  accompanied  by  conch  shell  trumpets, 
thighbone  trumpets  (made  from  human  thighbones),  metal  horns 
up  to  three  meters  long,  large  standing  drums  and  cymbals,  hand 
bells,  temple  bells,  gongs,  and  wooden  sticks.  Such  monastic  music 
and  singing,  not  normally  heard  by  the  general  public,  has  been 
reported  to  have  "great  virility"  and  to  be  more  melodious  than 
its  Tibetan  monotone  counterparts. 

To  bring  Buddhism  to  the  people,  numerous  symbols  and  struc- 
tures are  employed.  Religious  monuments,  prayer  walls,  prayer 
flags,  and  sacred  mantras  carved  in  stone  hillsides  were  prevalent 
in  the  early  1990s.  Among  the  religious  monuments  are  chorten, 
the  Bhutanese  version  of  the  Indian  stupa.  They  range  from  sim- 
ple rectangular  "house"  chorten  to  complex  edifices  with  ornate  steps, 
doors,  domes,  and  spires.  Some  are  decorated  with  the  Buddha's 
eyes  that  see  in  all  directions  simultaneously.  These  earth,  brick, 
or  stone  structures  commemorate  deceased  kings,  Buddhist  saints, 
venerable  monks,  and  other  notables,  and  sometimes  they  serve 
as  reliquaries.  Prayer  walls  are  made  of  laid  or  piled  stone  and  in- 
scribed with  Tantric  prayers.  Prayers  printed  with  woodblocks  on 
cloth  are  made  into  tall,  narrow,  colorful  prayer  flags,  which  are 
then  mounted  on  long  poles  and  placed  both  at  holy  sites  and  at 


283 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

dangerous  locations  to  ward  off  demons  and  to  benefit  the  spirits 
of  the  dead.  To  help  propagate  the  faith,  itinerant  monks  travel 
from  village  to  village  carrying  portable  shrines  with  many  small 
doors,  which  open  to  reveal  statues  and  images  of  the  Buddha,  bo- 
dhisattavas,  and  notable  lamas. 

Bon 

Before  the  introduction  of  Buddhism,  animistic  worship,  gener- 
ally categorized  as  Bon  in  the  Himalayas,  was  prevalent  in  Bhutan. 
The  sun,  moon,  sky,  and  other  natural  elements  were  worshiped, 
and  doctrine  was  transmitted  orally  from  generation  to  generation. 
Bon,  from  a  Tibetan  word  meaning  invocation  or  recitation,  has 
priests — bonpo — who  perform  exorcisms,  burial  rites,  and  divina- 
tions to  tame  threatening  demons  and  to  understand  the  wishes 
of  the  gods.  Imported  from  Tibet  and  India,  perhaps  in  the  eighth 
century,  Bon  doctrine  became  so  strongly  reinvigorated  by  Bud- 
dhism that  by  the  eleventh  century  it  reasserted  itself  as  an  indepen- 
dent school  apart  from  Buddhism.  Conversely,  Bon  influenced 
popular  Buddhism,  infusing  it  with  an  appreciation  for  omens  and 
demons  felt  to  influence  daily  life  profoundly.  Bon  established  a 
canon  of  teachings  and  continued  to  be  practiced  in  modern  Bhutan. 

Hinduism  and  Islam 

The  minority  religion  of  Bhutan  is  Hinduism,  whose 
adherents — those  of  Nepalese  origin — officially  constitute  28  per- 
cent of  the  population  (see  Hinduism,  ch.  2).  Despite  Buddhism's 
status  as  the  state  religion,  Hindus  had  de  facto  freedom  of  religion. 
The  Druk  Gyalpo  decreed  major  Hindu  festivals  as  national  holi- 
days, and  the  royal  family  participated  in  them.  An  even  smaller 
religious  minority — about  5  percent  of  the  population  in 
1989 — practiced  Islam.  Although  foreign  religious  personnel  were 
permitted  to  work  in  Bhutan,  primarily  as  educators,  they  were 
not  allowed  to  proselytize. 

Education 

Western-style  education  was  introduced  to  Bhutan  during  the 
reign  of  Ugyen  Wangchuck  (1907-26).  Until  the  1950s,  the  only 
formal  education  available  to  Bhutanese  students,  except  for  pri- 
vate schools  in  Ha  and  Bumthang,  was  through  Buddhist  monaster- 
ies. In  the  1950s,  several  private  secular  schools  were  established 
without  government  support,  and  several  others  were  established 
in  major  district  towns  with  government  backing.  By  the  late  1950s, 
there  were  twenty-nine  government  and  thirty  private  primary 
schools,  but  only  about  2,500  children  were  enrolled.  Secondary 


284 


The  twelfth-century  Chendibji  chorten,  a  religious  monument  dominated 

by  the  Buddha's  all-seeing  eyes 
Courtesy  Bhutan  Travel,  Inc.,  New  York  (Marie  Brown) 

education  was  available  only  in  India.  Eventually,  the  private 
schools  were  taken  under  government  supervision  to  raise  the  qual- 
ity of  education  provided.  Although  some  primary  schools  in  re- 
mote areas  had  to  be  closed  because  of  low  attendance,  the  most 
significant  modern  developments  in  education  came  during  the  peri- 
od of  the  First  Development  Plan  (1961-66),  when  some  108  schools 
were  operating  and  15,000  students  were  enrolled  (see  Role  of  the 
Government,  this  ch.). 

The  First  Development  Plan  provided  for  a  central  education 
authority — in  the  form  of  a  director  of  education  appointed  in 
1961 — and  an  organized,  modern  school  system  with  free  and 
universal  primary  education.  Since  that  time,  following  one  year 
of  preschool  begun  at  age  four,  children  attended  school  in  the 
primary  grades — one  through  five.  Education  continued  with  the 
equivalent  of  grades  six  through  eight  at  the  junior  high  level  and 
grades  nine  through  eleven  at  the  high  school  level.  The  Depart- 
ment of  Education  administered  the  All-Bhutan  Examinations  na- 
tionwide to  determine  promotion  from  one  level  of  schooling  to 
the  next.  Examinations  at  the  tenth- grade  level  were  conducted 
by  the  Indian  School  Certificate  Council.  The  Department  of  Edu- 
cation also  was  responsible  for  producing  textbooks;  preparing 


285 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

course  syllabi  and  in-service  training  for  teachers;  arranging  training 
and  study  abroad;  organizing  interschool  tournaments;  procuring 
foreign  assistance  for  education  programs;  and  recruiting,  testing, 
and  promoting  teachers,  among  other  duties. 

The  core  curriculum  set  by  the  National  Board  of  Secondary 
Education  included  English,  mathematics,  and  Dzongkha.  Although 
English  was  used  as  the  language  of  instruction  throughout  the 
junior  high  and  high  school  system,  Dzongkha  and,  in  southern 
Bhutan  until  1989,  Nepali,  were  compulsory  subjects.  Students  also 
studied  English  literature,  social  studies,  history,  geography,  general 
science,  biology,  chemistry,  physics,  and  religion.  Curriculum  de- 
velopment often  has  come  from  external  forces,  as  was  the  case 
with  historical  studies.  Most  Bhutanese  history  is  based  on  oral  tra- 
ditions rather  than  on  written  histories  or  administrative  records. 
A  project  sponsored  by  the  United  Nations  Education,  Scientific, 
and  Cultural  Organization  (UNESCO)  and  the  University  of  Lon- 
don developed  a  ten-module  curriculum,  which  included  four 
courses  on  Bhutanese  history  and  culture  and  six  courses  on  Indi- 
an and  world  history  and  political  ideas.  Subjects  with  an  immediate 
practical  application,  such  as  elementary  agriculture,  animal  hus- 
bandry, and  forestry,  also  were  taught. 

Bhutan's  coeducational  school  system  in  1988  encompassed  a 
reported  42,446  students  and  1,513  teachers  in  150  primary  schools, 
11,835  students  and  447  teachers  in  21  junior  high  schools,  and 
4,515  students  and  248  teachers  in  9  high  schools.  Males  account- 
ed for  63  percent  of  all  primary  and  secondary  students.  Most 
teachers  at  these  levels — 70  percent — also  were  males.  There  also 
were  1,761  students  and  150  teachers  in  technical,  vocational,  and 
special  schools  in  1988. 

Despite  increasing  student  enrollments,  which  went  from  36,705 
students  in  1981  to  58,796  students  in  1988,  education  was  not  com- 
pulsory. In  1988  only  about  25  percent  of  primary-school-age  chil- 
dren attended  school,  an  extremely  low  percentage  by  all  standards. 
Although  the  government  set  enrollment  quotas  for  high  schools, 
in  no  instance  did  they  come  close  to  being  met  in  the  1980s.  Only 
about  8  percent  of  junior  high- school- age  and  less  than  3  percent 
of  high-school-age  children  were  enrolled  in  1988. 

Bhutan's  literacy  rate  in  the  early  1990s,  estimated  at  30  per- 
cent for  males  and  10  percent  for  females  by  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  (UNDP),  ranked  lowest  among  all  least 
developed  countries.  Other  sources  ranked  the  literacy  rate  as  low 
as  12  to  18  percent. 

Some  primary  schools  and  all  junior  high  and  high  schools  were 
boarding  schools.  The  school  year  in  the  1980s  ran  from  March 


286 


Bhutan 


through  December.  Tuition,  books,  stationery,  athletic  equipment, 
and  food  were  free  for  all  boarding  schools  in  the  1980s,  and  some 
high  schools  also  provided  clothing.  With  the  assistance  of  the  World 
Food  Programme  of  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the 
United  Nations  (FAO),  free  midday  meals  were  provided  in  some 
primary  schools. 

Higher  education  was  provided  by  Royal  Bhutan  Polytechnic 
just  outside  the  village  of  Deothang,  Samdrup  Jongkhar  District, 
and  by  Kharbandi  Technical  School  in  Kharbandi,  Chhukha  Dis- 
trict. Founded  in  1973,  Royal  Bhutan  Polytechnic  offered  courses 
in  civil,  mechanical,  and  electrical  engineering;  surveying;  and 
drafting.  Kharbandi  Technical  School  was  established  in  the  1970s 
with  UNDP  and  International  Labour  Organisation  assistance. 
Bhutan's  only  junior  college — Sherubtse  College  in  Kanglung, 
Tashigang  District — was  established  in  1983  as  a  three-year  degree- 
granting  college  affiliated  with  the  University  of  Delhi.  In  the  year 
it  was  established  with  UNDP  assistance,  the  college  enrolled  278 
students,  and  seventeen  faculty  members  taught  courses  in  arts, 
sciences,  and  commerce  leading  to  a  bachelor's  degree.  Starting 
in  1990,  junior  college  classes  also  were  taught  at  the  Yanchen- 
phug  High  School  in  Thimphu  and  were  to  be  extended  to  other 
high  schools  thereafter. 

Education  programs  were  given  a  boost  in  1 990  when  the  Asian 
Development  Bank  (see  Glossary)  granted  a  US$7. 13  million  loan 
for  staff  training  and  development,  specialist  services,  equipment 
and  furniture  purchases,  salaries  and  other  recurrent  costs,  and 
facility  rehabilitation  and  construction  at  Royal  Bhutan  Poly- 
technic. The  Department  of  Education  and  its  Technical  and 
Vocational  Education  Division  were  given  a  US$750,000  Asian 
Development  Bank  grant  for  improving  the  technical,  vocational, 
and  training  sectors.  The  New  Approach  to  Primary  Education, 
started  in  1985,  was  extended  to  all  primary  and  junior  high  schools 
in  1990  and  stressed  self-reliance  and  awareness  of  Bhutan's  unique 
national  culture  and  environment. 

Most  Bhutanese  students  being  educated  abroad  received  tech- 
nical training  in  India,  Singapore,  Japan,  Australia,  New  Zealand, 
Britain,  Germany,  and  the  United  States.  English-speaking  coun- 
tries attracted  the  majority  of  Bhutanese  students.  The  vast  majority 
returned  to  their  homeland. 

Health 

Bhutan's  health-care  development  accelerated  in  the  early  1960s 
with  the  establishment  of  the  Department  of  Public  Health  and  the 
opening  of  new  hospitals  and  dispensaries  throughout  the  country. 


287 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

By  the  early  1990s,  health  care  was  provided  through  some  twenty- 
nine  general  hospitals  (including  five  leprosy  hospitals,  three  army 
hospitals,  and  one  mobile  hospital),  forty-six  dispensaries,  sixty- 
seven  basic  health  units,  four  indigenous-medicine  dispensaries, 
and  fifteen  malaria  eradication  centers.  The  major  hospitals  were 
in  Thimphu,  Geylegphug,  and  Tashigang.  Hospital  beds  in  1988 
totaled  932.  There  was  a  severe  shortage  of  health-care  personnel 
with  official  statistics  reporting  only  142  physicians  and  678  para- 
medics, about  one  health-care  professional  for  every  2,000  peo- 
ple, or  only  one  physician  for  almost  10,000  people.  Training  for 
health-care  assistants,  nurses'  aides,  midwives,  and  primary  health- 
care workers  was  provided  at  Thimphu  General  Hospital's  Health 
School,  which  was  established  in  1974.  Graduates  of  the  school  were 
the  core  of  the  national  public  health  system  and  helped  staff  the 
primary  care  basic  health  units  throughout  the  country.  Additional 
health-care  workers  were  recruited  from  among  volunteers  in  vil- 
lages to  supplement  primary  health  care. 

The  most  common  diseases  in  the  1980s  were  gastrointestinal 
infections  caused  by  waterborne  parasites,  mostly  attributable  to 
the  lack  of  clean  drinking  water.  The  most  frequently  treated  dis- 
eases were  respiratory  tract  infections,  diarrhea  and  dysentery, 
worms,  skin  infections,  malaria,  nutritional  deficiencies,  and  con- 
junctivitis. In  1977  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO) 
declared  Bhutan  a  smallpox-free  zone.  In  1979  a  nationwide  im- 
munization program  was  established.  In  1987,  with  WHO  sup- 
port, the  government  envisioned  plans  to  immunize  all  children 
against  diphtheria,  pertussis,  tetanus,  polio,  tuberculosis,  and 
measles  by  1990.  The  government's  major  medical  objective  by 
2000  was  to  eliminate  waterborne  parasites,  diarrhea  and  dysen- 
tery, malaria,  tuberculosis,  pneumonia,  and  goiter.  Progress  in 
leprosy  eradication  was  made  in  the  1970s  and  1980s,  during  which 
time  the  number  of  patients  had  decreased  by  more  than  half,  and 
by  1988  the  government  was  optimistic  that  the  disease  could  be 
eliminated  by  2000. 

It  was  estimated  in  1988  that  only  8  persons  per  1,000  had  ac- 
cess to  potable  water.  Despite  improved  amenities  provided  to  the 
people  through  government  economic  development  programs,  Bhu- 
tan still  faced  basic  health  problems.  Factors  in  the  country's  high 
morbidity  and  death  rates  included  the  severe  climate,  less  than 
hygienic  living  conditions,  for  example  long-closed-up  living  quar- 
ters during  the  winter,  a  situation  that  contributes  to  the  high  inci- 
dence of  leprosy,  and  smoke  inhalation  from  inadequately  ventilated 
cooking  equipment.  Nevertheless,  in  1980  it  was  estimated  that 
90  percent  of  Bhutanese  received  an  adequate  daily  caloric  intake. 


288 


Bhutan 


Although  there  were  no  reported  cases  of  acquired  immune  defi- 
ciency syndrome  (AIDS),  the  Department  of  Public  Health  set  up 
a  public  awareness  program  in  1987.  With  the  encouragement  of 
the  WHO,  a  "reference  laboratory"  was  established  at  the  Thim- 
phu General  Hospital  to  test  for  AIDS  and  human  immunodefi- 
ciency virus  (HIV)  as  a  precautionary  measure.  To  further  enhance 
awareness,  representatives  of  the  National  Institute  of  Family 
Health  were  sent  to  Bangladesh  in  1990  for  training  in  AIDS  aware- 
ness and  treatment  measures. 

The  Economy 

The  Economic  Context 

Bhutan,  recognized  by  international  aid  agencies  as  one  of  the 
poorest  of  the  least  developed  countries  of  the  world,  had  a  primarily 
subsistence  agricultural  economy  in  the  early  1990s.  In  the  late 
1980s,  around  95  percent  of  the  work  force  was  involved  in  the 
agricultural  sector  (agriculture,  livestock,  forestry  and  logging,  and 
fishing).  The  government  projected  that  the  agriculture  sector  would 
produce  46.2  percent  of  the  nation's  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP — see  Glossary)  for  1991,  representing  a  decade-long  slight 
decline  as  government  services  and  electric  power  generation  in- 
creased. Manufacturing  and  construction,  although  important,  were 
expected  to  contribute  only  14.2  percent  of  the  projected  total  GDP 
(nearly  Nu4.1  billion)  for  1991  (see  table  24,  Appendix).  The  gross 
national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary)  was  nearly  Nu3.9  billion 
in  1988,  and  in  the  same  year,  the  GDP  had  risen  to  Nu3.4  billion 
(see  table  25,  Appendix).  The  World  Bank  (see  Glossary)  calcu- 
lated Bhutan's  1989  per  capita  GNP,  based  on  revised  population 
estimates  (600,000  persons),  at  US$440. 

Despite  these  seemingly  bleak  economic  indicators,  the  actual 
quality  of  life  was  comparatively  better  than  that  of  countries  to 
the  north  and  south.  World  Bank  analysts  believed  the  numbers 
were  low  because  of  inaccurate  population  estimates  and  differ- 
ences in  measuring  subsistence  output  and  barter  transactions,  as 
well  as  the  difficulties  in  reconciling  the  differences  between  fiscal- 
year  and  calendar-year  accounts.  Nutritional  intakes,  and  the  avail- 
ability of  housing,  land,  livestock,  and  fuel,  all  pointed  to  higher 
per  capita  income.  And,  when  measured  in  1980  constant  prices, 
according  to  Bhutanese  government  statistics,  the  economy  ex- 
perienced a  highly  respectable  8.8  percent  annual  growth  rate  dur- 
ing the  1980s. 

Although  Bhutan  has  a  minuscule  private  sector,  it  was  grow- 
ing in  the  late  twentieth  century  in  conjunction  with  government 


289 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

development  plans.  It  was  controlled,  however,  by  a  small  sector 
of  society,  members  of  the  royal  family,  and  individuals  or  fami- 
lies with  government  ties.  The  Companies  Act  of  1989  provided 
for  the  separation  of  all  public  and  joint  sector  corporations  from 
the  civil  service  by  mid- 1990,  and,  as  a  result,  certain  key  enter- 
prises became  independent  of  the  government. 

Role  of  the  Government 

Planning  and  Reform 

Government  played  a  pervasive  role  in  Bhutan's  economy.  Since 
1961  the  economy  has  been  guided  through  development  plans, 
which  the  Development  Secretariat  and  later  the  Planning  Com- 
mission directed,  subject  to  the  National  Assembly's  approval.  In 
the  World  Bank's  1989  appraisal,  '  'Coming  late  to  the  devel- 
opment scene,  Bhutan  was  eager  to  avoid  mistakes  committed 
elsewhere.  Although  strongly  dependent  on  foreign  aid,  it  was  de- 
termined to  follow  its  own  set  of  priorities,  keep  public  finance  on 
an  even  keel,  build  up  a  well  trained  but  lean  bureaucracy,  and 
prevent  environmental  damage  from  overexploitation  of  the  forests 
or  uncontrolled  growth  of  tourism."  To  help  avoid  further  mis- 
takes, the  government  used  traditional  social  institutions  and  in- 
volved people  at  the  local  level  in  planning  and  implementation 
for  their  own  district,  subdistrict,  or  village.  4 'As  a  result  of  these 
factors,"  said  the  World  Bank,  ' 'development  in  Bhutan  has  been 
remarkably  free  from  seeing  economic,  social,  or  cultural  dis- 
ruption." 

India  fully  funded  the  First  Development  Plan  (1961-66).  The 
first  plan,  for  which  Nu  10 7. 2  million  was  allocated,  and  the  Sec- 
ond Development  Plan  (1966-71),  for  which  Nu202.2  million  was 
allocated,  focused  primarily  on  developing  modern  budgeting  tech- 
niques (see  table  26,  Appendix).  According  to  some  foreign  ob- 
servers, the  first  two  plans  failed  to  set  priorities  and  achieve 
economic-sector  integration  as  might  be  expected  of  genuine  de- 
velopment planning.  The  major  economic-planning  emphasis  was 
on  public  works,  primarily  roads;  forestry;  health  care;  and  edu- 
cation (see  table  27,  Appendix). 

To  make  planning  more  effective,  the  Planning  Commission  was 
established  to  formulate  the  Third  Development  Plan  (1971-76), 
and  the  Druk  Gyalpo  served  as  its  chairman  until  1991.  Under 
the  third  plan,  public  works,  still  primarily  roads,  continued  to  take 
a  significant  share  of  the  Nu475.2  million  development  budget  (17.8 
percent)  but  had  decreased  from  its  58.7  percent  share  in  the  first 
plan  and  its  34.9  percent  share  in  the  second  plan.  Education 


290 


Bhutan 


gradually  increased  (from  8.8  to  18.9  percent)  in  the  first  three 
plans.  The  second  and  third  plans  were  paid  for  primarily  by  In- 
dia, although  about  3  percent  of  total  funding  became  available 
through  the  UN,  starting  with  the  third  plan.  Despite  amounts 
budgeted  for  planned  development,  there  were  additional  capital 
expenditures  outside  the  formal  development  plan,  including  public 
works  (mostly  road  construction)  and  hydroelectric  plants. 

One  of  the  major  achievements  of  the  Fourth  Development  Plan 
(1976-81)  was  the  establishment  of  district  (or  dzongkhag)  planning 
committees  to  stimulate  greater  local  involvement,  awareness  of 
government  development  policies,  and  local  development  proposals. 
The  committees,  however,  had  no  decision-making  powers. 
Nevertheless,  agricultural  and  animal  husbandry  came  to  the  fore, 
taking  29  percent  of  the  Nu  1.106  billion  allocated  for  the  fourth 
plan.  It  was  during  the  fourth  plan  that  Bhutan  made  its  first  effort 
to  establish  the  value  of  the  GDP,  which  in  1977  amounted  to  Nul  .0 
billion.  In  that  year,  GDP  was  distributed  among  agricultural  and 
related  activities,  63.2  percent;  services,  13.1  percent;  government 
administration,  10.4  percent;  rental  income,  8.1  percent;  and 
manufacturing  and  mining,  5.2  percent.  Per  capita  GDP  was  es- 
timated at  US$105. 

The  Fifth  Development  Plan  (1981-87)  sought  the  expansion  of 
farmland  to  increase  the  production  of  staple  crops,  such  as  rice, 
corn,  wheat,  barley,  buckwheat,  and  millet.  The  plan  also  empha- 
sized improvements  in  livestock,  soil  fertility,  plant  protection,  and 
farm  mechanization.  Its  total  planned  allocation  was  Nu4.3  bil- 
lion, but  the  actual  outlay  came  to  Nu4.7  billion.  Financing  the 
planning  process  grew  increasingly  complex,  as  indicated  by  the 
fifth  plan's  multilateral  funding  sources.  However,  domestic 
revenue  sources  for  development  planning  had  increased  signifi- 
cantly, and  the  fifth  plan  included  development  projects  that  would 
further  decrease  dependence  on  external  assistance.  Such  concepts 
as  self-reliance  in  each  district,  decentralization  of  the  development 
administration,  greater  public  input  in  decision  making,  better  con- 
trol of  maintenance  expenditures,  and  more  efficient  and  effective 
use  of  internal  resources  became  increasingly  important. 

The  Sixth  Development  Plan  (1987-92)  focused  on  industry, 
mining,  trade,  and  commerce  (13.3  percent)  and  power  genera- 
tion projects  (13.1  percent),  with  education's  allocation  decreas- 
ing slightly  to  8. 1  percent  from  11.2  percent  during  the  fifth  plan. 
At  Nu9.5  billion,  the  sixth  plan  was  considerably  more  expensive 
than  its  predecessor.  It  included  programs  that,  if  successfully  im- 
plemented, would  mean  far-reaching  reforms.  The  goals  included 
strengthening  government  administration,  promoting  the  national 


291 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

identity,  mobilizing  internal  resources,  enhancing  rural  incomes, 
improving  rural  housing  and  resettlement,  consolidating  and  im- 
proving services,  developing  human  resources,  promoting  public 
involvement  in  development  plans  and  strategies,  and  promo- 
ting national  self-reliance.  Perhaps  the  key  ingredient,  self-reliance, 
promised  to  provide  for  more  popular  participation  in  the  devel- 
opment process  and  to  result  in  improved  rural  conditions  and 
services  as  well  as  better  government  administration  and  human- 
resource  development.  With  greater  self-reliance,  it  was  hoped  that 
Bhutan  would  begin  exploiting  markets  in  neighboring  countries 
with  manufacturing,  mining,  and  hydroelectric  projects  in  the 
1990s.  Faced  with  rising  costs,  Bhutan  postponed  some  projects 
requiring  large  inputs  of  capital  until  the  Seventh  Development 
Plan  (1992-96). 

No  major  changes  were  expected  in  overall  sectoral  development 
in  the  seventh  plan.  Preliminary  planning  indicated  emphasis  on 
"consolidation  and  rehabilitation"  of  developments  achieved  un- 
der previous  plans,  more  attention  to  environmental  concerns,  and 
enhancement  of  women's  role  in  economic  and  social  development. 

From  their  inception,  the  development  plans  have  been  aimed 
at  energizing  the  rest  of  the  economy  and  promoting  economic  self- 
reliance.  Windfall  revenues  from  export  receipts  normally  were  used 
to  reduce  foreign  debt  and  dependence  on  foreign  aid.  Planners 
also  sought  to  involve  the  immediate  beneficiaries  of  economic  de- 
velopment. Representatives  in  the  National  Assembly  and  district 
officials  were  encouraged  to  become  involved  in  projects,  such  as 
roads  and  bridges,  schools,  health-care  facilities,  and  irrigation 
works,  in  their  district.  Some  costs  for  the  projects  were  borne 
through  self-help,  such  as  households  providing  labor.  Government 
planners  also  have  endeavored  to  increase  rural  income  through 
initiatives  in  the  farming  sector,  such  as  stock-breeding  programs, 
promotion  of  cash  crops,  and  advanced  agro- technology.  Central 
government  efforts  also  were  aimed  at  increasing  the  quality  of  life 
by  providing  electrification,  modern  water  and  sanitation  systems, 
better  cooking  equipment,  and  insulation  for  houses. 

Budgets 

Key  to  the  budgetary  process  since  1949  has  been  the  annual 
subsidy  given  to  Bhutan  by  the  Indian  government.  In  the  late 
1980s,  the  subsidy  stood  at  40  percent  of  total  revenue,  but  this 
proportion  was  significantly  less  than  the  nearly  100  percent  New 
Delhi  once  provided.  The  rest  was  funded  by  international  aid  or- 
ganizations and  a  few  domestic  sources. 


292 


Weaving  on  a  backstrap  loom,  an  important  home  industry 
Courtesy  Bhutan  Travel,  Inc.,  New  York  (Marie  Brown) 

During  most  of  the  1980s,  the  budget  ran  a  deficit.  Only  in  1984, 
out  of  the  four  years  between  1983  and  1986,  did  government 
revenues  exceed  expenditures,  and  revenues  depended  heavily  on 
foreign  aid.  In  other  years,  revenue  shortfalls  reached  as  much  as 
Nu207  million  (in  1985).  In  FY  1989,  Bhutan's  revenues  of  near- 
ly Nul.7  billion  (US$99  million)  were  exceeded  by  expenditures 
of  nearly  Nu2.2  billion  (US$128  million,  of  which  US$65  million 
were  for  capital  expenditures). 

Monetary  System 

The  monetary  system  in  the  early  1990s  was  based  on  the 
decimal-system  ngultrum,  which  was  established  as  the  nation's 
currency  and  first  used  to  keep  financial  accounts  in  1974.  Prior 
to  1957,  a  nondecimal  system  using  both  Indian  and  Bhutanese 
rupees  was  employed,  and  the  decimal-based  rupee  was  the  stan- 
dard currency  between  1957  and  1974.  Since  at  least  the  eighteenth 
century,  Bhutan  had  had  its  own  coinage  system,  and  the  Indian 
rupee  also  freely  circulated  as  a  medium  of  exchange.  Until  the 
1960s,  however,  most  financial  transactions  were  carried  out  us- 
ing barter  arrangements.  Although  Indian  rupee  notes  were  used 
extensively,  in  1971  the  government  had  to  withdraw  some  350,000 
tikchung  (a  Bhutanese  coin  worth  half  a  rupee)  from  circulation 


293 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

because  of  the  inconvenience  of  using  them  in  large  financial  trans- 
actions. In  1991  the  Indian  rupee  continued  to  be  legal  tender  in 
Bhutan,  and  the  ngultrum  was  at  par  with  it.  The  Reserve  Bank 
of  India  determined  the  exchange  rate  between  the  ngultrum  and 
other  foreign  currencies.  External  transactions  were  handled  by 
Bhutan's  Ministry  of  Finance,  which  provided  foreign  exchange 
for  most  currency  and  capital  transactions.  The  ministry  also  had 
approval  authority  over  all  capital  transactions.  Starting  in  1985, 
the  ministry  delegated  most  foreign-exchange  transactions  to  the 
Royal  Monetary  Authority. 

Banking  and  Credit 

The  Royal  Monetary  Authority,  since  its  establishment  in  1982, 
has  served  as  the  central  bank  of  Bhutan  and  maintained  its  head- 
quarters in  Thimphu.  The  authority  was  responsible  for  issuing 
currency,  implementing  monetary  policy,  coordinating  financial 
institution  activities,  and  holding  the  government's  foreign- 
exchange  earnings.  Among  its  initial  duties  was  the  administra- 
tion of  financial  assistance  to  rural  development,  a  duty  later 
delegated  to  the  Bhutan  Development  Finance  Corporation  when 
it  was  founded  in  1988. 

The  Bank  of  Bhutan,  the  nation's  commercial  bank,  was  estab- 
lished in  1968  as  a  joint  venture  with  the  Chartered  Bank  of  In- 
dia, which  owned  25  percent  of  the  bank.  In  1970  the  State  Bank 
of  India  took  over  the  Bhutanese  assets  controlled  by  the  Char- 
tered Bank  of  India.  Since  its  establishment,  the  Bank  of  Bhutan's 
board  of  directors,  has  been  composed  of  key  officials  from  the  eco- 
nomic ministries  and  departments  and  two  officials  from  the  Indi- 
an banks.  The  bank  was  restructured  in  1971.  To  ensure  that  it 
would  have  sufficient  funds  at  its  disposal,  government  departments 
were  required  to  deposit  all  of  their  accounts  with  the  government- 
run  bank  until  1982,  when  the  Royal  Monetary  Authority  was  es- 
tablished. Since  1982  the  Bank  of  Bhutan  has  served  as  the  retail 
banking  agent  for  the  Royal  Monetary  Authority.  The  bank's  prin- 
cipal office  was  in  Phuntsholing;  in  1991  there  were  twenty-six 
branch  offices  throughout  the  country.  The  Bank  of  Bhutan  was 
able  to  give  relatively  large  loans  for  capital  programs,  such  as  ir- 
rigation projects  in  the  south-central  region.  Among  its  retail  bank- 
ing activities  was  the  issuance  of  rupee-denomination  travelers' 
cheques;  this  activity  was  started  in  1974. 

The  Bhutan  Development  Finance  Corporation,  upon  its  estab- 
lishment in  1988,  took  over  the  administration  of  rural  financial 
assistance  from  the  Royal  Monetary  Authority.  Loans  were  granted 


294 


Bhutan 


for  improving  farmlands,  acquiring  livestock,  and  meeting  short- 
term,  seasonal  requirements.  At  least  some  of  the  funding  for  the 
corporation  came  from  the  Asian  Development  Bank,  including 
an  initial  US$2.5  million  loan  in  1988  for  the  expansion  of  small  - 
and  medium-sized,  private- sector  industrial  development.  By  1991 
the  corporation  had  been  privatized. 

Nonbank  financial  institutions  also  were  set  up  as  part  of  the 
economic  modernization  process.  Insurance  was  offered  by  the  Roy- 
al Insurance  Corporation  of  Bhutan,  which  was  established  in  1975 
with  its  headquarters  in  Phuntsholing.  Starting  in  1980,  individu- 
als could  invest  their  savings  in  the  newly  established  Unit  Trust 
of  Bhutan.  The  trust,  with  its  main  office  in  Phuntsholing,  chan- 
neled invested  funds,  for  which  it  issued  shares  called  units,  into 
industrial  and  commercial  development.  The  Government  Em- 
ployees' Provident  Fund,  established  in  1986;  the  Bhutan  Develop- 
ment Finance  Corporation;  and  other  nonbank  institutions  were 
small  and  constrained  by  the  rudimentary  use  of  money  in  the 
economy. 

Government- Owned  Corporations 

The  government  owned  several  trading  corporations.  The  Food 
Corporation  of  Bhutan  in  Phuntsholing  was  involved  in  retailing, 
marketing,  storage,  importing  and  exporting  agricultural  products, 
regulating  agricultural  commerce  and  processing,  and  managing 
rural  finance  through  loans  from  the  Bank  of  Bhutan  and  the  Royal 
Insurance  Corporation.  The  National  Commission  for  Trade  and 
Industry  in  Thimphu  provided  quality  control  for  proposed  indus- 
trial projects,  and  the  State  Trading  Corporation  of  Bhutan  in 
Phuntsholing  was  the  government's  import  and  export  manage- 
ment agency. 

Foreign  Economic  Relations 

Aid 

Whereas  Bhutan  was  once  nearly  totally  dependent  on  India  not 
only  for  its  development  assistance  but  also  for  its  entire  govern- 
ment revenue,  it  increasingly  turned  to  various  international  or- 
ganizations, such  as  the  United  Nations,  the  Colombo  Plan,  the 
World  Bank,  and  the  Asian  Development  Bank,  for  loans.  Since 
the  1960s,  Bhutan,  through  the  Colombo  Plan,  has  received  aid 
from  several  countries  in  the  form  of  farm  machinery,  motor  ve- 
hicles, school  books  and  laboratory  equipment,  livestock,  seeds, 
dairy  equipment,  medicine,  and  refrigeration  and  irrigation  sys- 
tems. Participating  countries  included  Japan,  Australia,  New 


295 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Zealand,  Britain,  Austria,  Switzerland,  West  Germany,  and  Cana- 
da. The  World  Bank  granted  a  US$9  million  interest-free  loan  to 
help  with  the  development  of  a  calcium  carbide  plant  near  Phunt- 
sholing.  As  of  1990,  total  Asian  Development  Bank  loans  to  Bhu- 
tan since  the  latter  joined  in  1982  amounted  to  US$30  million.  In 
1987  and  1988  alone,  the  bank  approved  loans  totalling  more  than 
US$6.9  million  to  cover  the  modernization  of  industrial  estates  and 
to  provide  foreign  currency  for  the  Bhutan  Development  Finance 
Corporation,  which  in  turn  provided  credit  for  agricultural  projects 
and  private-sector  businesses.  Asian  Development  Bank  loans  to 
Bhutan  for  1990-93  were  projected  at  US$35  million,  plus  a  grant 
of  more  than  US$4.85  million;  the  aid  was  for  technical  assistance. 

The  Sixth  Development  Plan  saw  increased  involvement  of  aid 
both  through  UN  auspices  and  the  non-profit  Swiss  organization 
Helvetas  (Swiss  Association  for  Technical  Assistance).  Helvetas  be- 
gan providing  funding  to  Bhutan  in  1975  through  contributions 
from  association  members  and  the  Swiss  government.  In  1990,  for 
example,  Helvetas  contributed  Nu32.8  million  (69  percent  of  to- 
tal foreign  aid)  to  establish  the  Natural  Resources  Training  Insti- 
tute, a  two-year  technical  training  school.  The  Japanese  government 
gave  Nu74  million  in  grants  for  agricultural  development  and  au- 
dio training  equipment  in  1990-91. 

In  1989  the  World  Food  Programme  approved  a  two-year 
US$700,000  project  to  establish  food  reserves  that  would  help  Bhu- 
tan handle  local  emergencies  and  interruptions  of  food  supplies. 
The  FAO  sponsored  a  program  to  assist  Bhutan  in  achieving  food 
self-sufficiency  by  1992. 

Another  form  of  aid  received  by  Bhutan  was  through  interna- 
tional and  foreign  volunteer  programs.  A  UN  volunteer  program 
initiated  in  1980  brought  foreign  specialists  in  to  assist  and  advise 
in  the  areas  of  education,  health,  engineering,  animal  husbandry, 
agriculture,  and  urban  planning.  By  1990  Japan,  New  Zealand, 
Britain,  and  Canada  also  were  operating  volunteer  programs  in 
Bhutan. 

In  addition  to  the  substantial  aid  it  received,  Bhutan  was  itself 
an  aid  giver.  For  example,  in  1987  Bhutan  provided  disaster  relief 
aid  to  Maldives  (Nul  million),  Bangladesh  (Nu0.5  million),  and 
India  (Nu5  million). 

Foreign  Debt 

At  the  start  of  the  1980s,  Bhutan's  external  debt  was  small,  but 
as  the  decade  progressed  it  increased  significantly.  Whereas  it  stood 
at  US$2.7  million  in  1984,  the  debt  jumped  to  US$21  million  in 
1985  and  reached  US$70. 1  million  in  1989.  Although  efforts  have 


296 


Bhutan 


been  made  to  reduce  dependence  on  foreign  aid  inputs,  an  increas- 
ing amount  of  aid,  other  than  that  received  from  India,  has  been 
in  the  form  of  loans  rather  than  outright  grants.  Whereas  Bhutan 
had  no  foreign  debt  outside  of  India  in  the  early  1980s,  by  the  mid- 
to-late  1980s,  loans — primarily  from  the  World  Bank  and  the  Asian 
Development  Bank — comprised  30  percent  of  foreign  assistance  and 
represented  about  17  percent  of  its  GDP. 

Trade 

Traditionally,  most  foreign  trade  was  with  Tibet.  By  1960, 
however,  following  the  closing  of  the  Bhutan-China  border  and 
the  development  of  closer  ties  with  India,  formal  trade  with  India 
replaced  that  with  Tibet.  Although  banned  by  the  Bhutan  govern- 
ment by  1961,  barter  trade  with  Tibet  has  persisted.  Since  1960 
nearly  all  of  Bhutan's  exports  (93  percent  in  1989)  and  the  majori- 
ty of  its  imports  (67  percent  in  1989)  have  been  with  India  (see 
table  28,  Appendix).  Payments  for  imports  in  the  1980s  were  usually 
made  with  Indian  rupees.  There  were  no  import  duties  on  Indian 
imports,  and,  in  accordance  with  the  1949  friendship  treaty  be- 
tween Bhutan  and  India,  there  was  duty-free  transit  of  imports  from 
other  countries  (see  Foreign  Relations,  this  ch.). 

Both  imports  and  exports  increased  steadily  during  the  1980s, 
from  a  total  of  Nu805.9  million  in  1983  to  more  than  Nu2.9  bil- 
lion in  1990  (see  table  29,  Appendix).  The  balance  of  trade  also 
improved  as  the  decade  progressed.  In  1983,  for  example,  only  20 
percent  of  trade  was  in  exported  goods,  whereas  80  percent  was 
imports;  this  negative  trade  balance  improved  markedly  by  1990, 
however,  when  exports  accounted  for  40.2  percent  and  imports  for 
59.8  percent  of  foreign  trade  (see  table  30,  Appendix).  Although 
there  was  little  trade  with  the  United  States,  in  recognition  of  its 
economic  status  Bhutan  was  granted  an  exemption  in  1985  from 
the  competitive  trade  requirements  provided  by  the  United  States' 
Generalized  System  of  Preferences. 

Exports,  which  reached  almost  Nul.2  billion  in  1990,  consisted 
primarily  of  cement,  talc,  fruit  (mostly  oranges)  and  fruit  products, 
alcoholic  beverages,  resin,  cardamom,  lumber  products,  potatoes, 
and  handicrafts.  Although  most  trade  was  with  India,  such  special- 
ties as  timber,  cardamom,  and  liquor  were  exported  to  Bangladesh, 
Singapore,  and  countries  in  the  Middle  East  and  Western  Europe. 
The  opening  of  thirteen  border  crossings  with  customs  facilities  for 
Bhutan's  exports  and  imports  also  eased  trade  with  Nepal  and  Ban- 
gladesh. An  increasingly  important  export  to  India  was  surplus  pow- 
er from  Bhutan's  Chhukha  Hydel  Project,  which  earned  Bhutan 


297 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Nu22.3  million  in  FY  1988;  that  figure  increased  to  nearly  Nu399 
million  only  two  years  later. 

Imports  amounted  to  nearly  Nul.8  billion  in  1990.  They  con- 
sisted of  raw  materials;  textiles;  cereals;  fuel;  investment  goods, 
including  motor  vehicles;  and  other  consumer  goods,  primarily  from 
India. 

Agriculture 

Bhutan  was  traditionally  self-sufficient  in  food  production.  Most 
of  Bhutan's  citizens  and  a  significant  amount  of  its  GDP  were  devot- 
ed to  the  agricultural  sector  in  the  late  1980s.  About  87  percent 
of  the  population  was  involved  in  agriculture,  and  a  projected  30.5 
percent  of  GDP  was  expected  to  be  produced  through  farming, 
animal  husbandry,  and  fishing  in  1991.  Most  agriculture  was  car- 
ried out  with  traditional  methods  and  at  the  subsistence  level.  Faced 
with  constraints  of  a  shortage  of  cultivable  and  pasture  land,  lack 
of  technical  knowledge,  logistical  difficulties,  and  a  shortage  of 
skilled  labor  and  managerial  expertise,  agricultural  development 
was  difficult.  Grain  production  had  not  met  demand,  and  imports 
were  rising  in  the  late  1980s.  Shortages  of  feed  contributed  to  low 
livestock  productivity.  Cash  crops,  such  as  oranges,  apples,  and 
cardamom,  were  significant,  but  they  produced  too  little  income 
to  influence  the  overall  economy.  Government  interest  in  agricul- 
ture was  ensured  during  the  First  Development  Plan  (1961-66), 
with  the  establishment  of  agriculture  and  animal  husbandry  de- 
partments to  oversee  model  farms,  research,  and  crop  and  herd 
improvement,  a  trend  which  continued  through  subsequent  de- 
velopment plans. 

Farming 

Crop  farming  was  projected  to  produce  20.3  percent  of  GDP 
in  1991 .  Only  about  15  percent  of  Bhutan's  extremely  mountainous 
land  was  arable,  and  less  than  6  percent  was  under  permanent  cul- 
tivation. Because  rainfall  and  temperatures  changed  radically  from 
one  valley  to  the  next,  there  were  significant  variations  in  the  kinds 
of  crops  that  were  raised  in  neighboring  communities.  Most  farms 
were  small,  with  90  percent  of  nearly  65,000  landholders  having 
less  than  five  hectares.  Nearly  50  percent  of  those  farms  used  ter- 
raced cultivation;  another  18  percent  were  in  valleys.  Although 
banned  by  the  government,  tsheri  cultivation  accounted  for  32  per- 
cent of  the  agricultural  land  use  and  about  3  percent  of  the  total 
land  in  the  early  to  mid-1980s. 

The  major  cereal  crops  in  the  1980s  were  corn,  rice,  wheat  and 
barley,  buckwheat,  and  millet.  Other  major  annual  crops  were 


298 


Threshing  rice 

Courtesy  Bhutan  Travel,  Inc.,  New  York  (Marie  Brown) 

potatoes,  chilies,  vegetables,  soyabeans,  pulses,  and  mustard.  Hor- 
ticultural crops  included  oranges,  apples,  and  cardamom.  Corn 
and  rice  were  by  far  the  most  prevalent  crops,  producing  81,000 
tons  and  80,000  tons,  respectively,  in  1988.  In  the  same  year,  a 
total  of  51,000  tons  of  oranges,  50,000  tons  of  potatoes,  16,000 
tons  of  wheat,  7,000  tons  of  millet,  4,000  tons  of  barley,  and  4,000 
tons  of  apples  were  produced.  Total  cereal  production,  however, 
only  increased  from  154,000  tons  in  1979  to  205,000  tons  in  1987. 

Despite  increases  in  paddy  production,  with  26,000  hectares  un- 
der cultivation  in  1989,  rice  was  imported.  Bhutan  had  once  been 
an  exporter  of  rice  to  Tibet,  but  its  growing  urban  population  plus 
the  nonfarm  immigrant  and  migrant  population  put  a  severe  con- 
straint on  previous  self-sufficiency  in  rice  production.  With  a  total 
cereal  demand  of  200,000  tons  by  1987,  some  20,000  tons  of  rice 
and  12,000  tons  of  wheat  were  being  imported  from  India  annual- 
ly. Nonfood  crops,  such  as  jute,  which  was  produced  by  fewer  than 
2  percent  of  Bhutan's  farmers,  also  were  grown.  A  small  amount 
of  tobacco  was  produced,  with  a  reported  crop  of  100  tons  in  1987, 
the  same  amount  produced  annually  for  nearly  a  decade. 

Animal  Husbandry 

The  most  common  livestock  types  traditionally  and  in  the  late 


299 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

1980s,  in  order  of  numbers  of  head,  were  cattle,  poultry,  pigs,  goats, 
sheep,  yaks,  and  horses.  Buffaloes,  donkeys,  and  mules  also  were 
raised.  Although  all  types  of  livestock  were  raised  throughout  the 
country,  cattle  tended  to  predominate  in  the  east  and  south,  horses 
in  the  east,  yaks  and  pigs  in  the  west,  and  goats  and  poultry  in 
the  south.  Milk  production  stood  at  31,000  tons  in  1987.  Develop- 
ment priorities  under  the  Sixth  Development  Plan  included  livestock 
crossbreeding,  improved  animal  health  care,  increased  individual 
land  ownership,  and  a  better  balance  between  herd  size  and  feed 
availability.  As  a  result  of  these  efforts,  livestock  production  in- 
creased modestly  from  5,000  tons  of  beef,  veal,  pork,  mutton,  and 
lamb  in  1980  to  7,000  tons  annually  by  1987. 

Fisheries 

A  less  productive  but  still  significant  food  source  resulted  from 
fishing,  both  from  cold-water  streams  and  lakes  (primarily  trout) 
and  warm-water  fisheries  (primarily  carp).  A  growing  demand  for 
fish  as  a  dietary  supplement  was  reported  in  the  mid-1970s  follow- 
ing a  1974  FAO  aquaculture  study  and  a  1976  FAO  survey  of  rivers 
and  lakes  to  determine  the  level  of  fish  stock.  Fisheries  were  devel- 
oped, and  carp  were  imported  from  Assam.  In  1977  the  Depart- 
ment of  Animal  Husbandry  established  a  Fishery  Development 
Programme,  initially  for  stocking  rivers  with  game  fish  and  for  de- 
veloping commercial  capability  as  a  long-term  goal.  Between  1979 
and  1987,  an  average  of  1 ,000  tons  of  fish  were  caught  or  produced 
annually.  Another  FAO  survey  was  conducted  in  1981,  and  the 
government  included  fishery  development  for  the  first  time  in  the 
Fifth  Development  Plan.  The  Integrated  Fisheries  Development 
Project  was  started  at  Geylegphug  in  1985.  The  National  Warm 
Water  Fish  Culture  Centre  supplied  fish  to  farmers,  and  some 
twenty-one  tons  of  carp  were  produced  at  fisheries  for  local  and 
national  consumption.  To  control  cold-water  fishing,  the  Depart- 
ment of  Forestry  issued  fishing  licenses  and  enforced  seasonal  and 
fish-size  prohibitions. 

Irrigation  and  Fertilization 

Through  the  Bank  of  Bhutan,  the  government  helped  finance 
irrigation  projects  in  south-central  Bhutan.  By  1986  some  350  kilo- 
meters of  new  irrigation  channels  had  been  constructed,  and  another 
395  kilometers  of  old  channels  had  been  repaired.  Irrigation, 
however,  was  of  only  limited  applicability  because  of  the  terrain. 
More  attention  was  needed  for  rainfed  crops,  such  as  potatoes, 
wheat,  and  corn,  than  for  rice  and  cash  crops  in  irrigated  areas. 

Fertilizer  use  was  limited.  Although  nitrogenous  fertilizers  were 


300 


Bhutan 


used  at  a  rate  of  100  tons  a  year  and  phosphate  and  potash  fertiliz- 
ers were  used  in  indeterminant  amounts  throughout  the  1980s,  they 
were  not  a  major  agricultural  factor. 

Forestry 

One  of  Bhutan's  significant  natural  resources  in  the  late  twen- 
tieth century  was  its  rich  forests  and  natural  vegetation.  Bhutan's 
location  in  the  eastern  Himalayas,  with  its  subtropical  plains  and 
alpine  terrain,  gives  it  more  rainfall  than  its  neighbors  to  the  west, 
a  factor  gready  facilitating  forest  growth.  The  forests  contain  numer- 
ous deciduous  and  evergreen  species,  ranging  from  tropical  hard- 
woods to  predominantly  oak  and  pine  forests. 

The  small  population  and  the  general  absence  of  overdevelop- 
ment in  Bhutan  contributed  to  forest  preservation.  Because  of  the 
terrain,  the  more  accessible  forests  had  been  overcut  whereas  re- 
mote forests  remained  largely  in  their  natural  state.  A  progressive 
government-sponsored  forestry  conservation  policy  strove  to  balance 
revenue  needs  with  ecological  considerations,  water  management, 
and  soil  preservation.  Success  in  managing  its  forest  resources  had 
long  been  critical  to  the  local  environment  and  economy  and  also 
affected  downstream  floodplains  in  India  and  Bangladesh. 

The  Department  of  Forestry  was  established  in  1952  to  oversee 
conservation  and  exploitation  of  the  country's  significant  forestry 
resources.  After  an  initial  decade  of  development,  forestry-resource 
exploitation  increased  with  the  start  of  the  First  Development  Plan 
in  1961 .  Uncontrolled  felling  of  trees  in  the  1970s  by  private  com- 
panies in  logging  areas  and  by  rural  populations  along  roads  and 
in  main  valleys  stripped  hillsides  and  caused  serious  erosion.  Tsheri 
cultivation,  forest  fires,  and  overgrazing  also  contributed  to  the 
degradation  of  the  forestry  resource. 

In  1971  the  Forestry  School  was  established  at  Kalikhola  in 
southern  Bhutan.  It  was  moved  to  Taba  in  the  northern  Thimphu 
Valley  in  1977.  The  school  provided  basic  instruction  in  forestry 
and  forest  management  and  trained  foresters  and  Forest  Guards 
(see  Paramilitary,  this  ch.). 

In  1981  some  3.3  million  hectares,  or  between  70  and  74  per- 
cent of  the  land,  were  forested,  but  in  1991  foreign  estimates  indi- 
cated a  shrinking  forest  of  only  60  to  64  percent  of  the  land.  Even 
more  conservative  estimates  indicated  that  closer  to  50  percent  of 
Bhutan's  territory  still  was  forested  in  the  late  1980s,  and  about 
15  percent  of  GDP  was  produced  through  the  nation's  important 
forest  industry. 

According  to  UN  statistics,  in  the  decade  between  1978  and  1987 
Bhutan  harvested  an  average  of  nearly  3.2  million  cubic  meters 


301 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

of  roundwood  and  produced  5,000  cubic  meters  of  sawn  wood  per 
year.  Of  this  total,  nearly  80  percent  was  for  commercial  use  (paper 
pulp,  veneers,  plywood,  particle  board,  and  firewood),  and  the  re- 
mainder was  for  housing  construction  and  public  works. 

Before  hydroelectric  power  and  other  modern  energy  sources  were 
available,  wood  was  the  almost  exclusive  source  of  fuel  for  heat- 
ing, cooking,  and  lighting.  The  provision  of  electricity,  as  well  as 
better  regulation  of  fuelwood  collectors  and  more  aggressive 
reforestation  projects,  was  seen  in  the  1980s  as  a  key  factor  in  forest 
conservation.  Because  affordable  electricity  was  not  available 
throughout  the  country,  the  government  established  fuelwood  plan- 
tations near  villages  to  accommodate  daily  needs  and  to  promote 
forest  conservation. 

Recognizing  the  potential  value  of  its  forestry  resource,  Bhutan 
became  increasingly  conscientious  about  forestry  management  in 
the  1970s.  Starting  in  1977,  the  World  Wildlife  Fund  began  sup- 
porting Bhutan's  forest  management  through  organizing  forest 
ranger  training  programs,  supplying  funds  for  forest  boundary 
demarcation,  building  guard  posts,  and  constructing  a  patrol  road 
for  what  was  later  to  be  designated  the  Royal  Manas  National  Park. 
Bhutan  rejected  World  Bank  aid  to  build  a  major  dam  on  the  Manas 
Chhu  in  1986  that  would  have  flooded  this  major  conservation  area 
on  the  southern  Bhutan-India  border.  By  1989  Bhutan  had  devel- 
oped nine  other  forest  and  wildlife  preserves,  also  mostly  along  the 
southern  border  with  India. 

In  the  face  of  increasing  denuded  hillsides,  private  logging  was 
banned,  and  strict  standards  for  public-sector  logging  operations 
were  established  in  1979.  Farmers  were  warned  against  burning 
off  forests  to  clear  land  for  tsheri  cultivation,  and  Forest  Guards 
were  trained  in  increasing  numbers  to  help  preserve  the  valuable 
resources.  Surveying,  demarcation,  conservation,  and  management 
plans  for  harvesting  forest  products  were  part  of  the  Fifth  Develop- 
ment Plan's  focus  on  forestry  preservation.  Wildlife  sanctuaries 
also  were  developed.  One  of  the  immediate  results  of  forestry  sec- 
tor regulation,  however,  was  a  sharp  decrease  in  revenues  since 
the  late  1970s.  In  1991  the  government,  with  assistance  from  UNDP 
and  the  World  Wildlife  Fund,  established  a  trust  fund  for  environ- 
mental conservation.  Initially  in  the  amount  of  US$20  million,  the 
UNDP -administered  fund  was  aimed  at  producing  up  to  US$1  mil- 
lion per  year  for  training  in  forestry  and  ecology,  surveying  forests, 
reviewing  and  implementing  management  plans  for  protected  areas, 
and  supporting  government  environmental  offices,  public  aware- 
ness programs,  and  integrated  conservation  and  development 
programs. 


302 


Bhutan 


Industry,  Mining,  Energy,  and  Commerce 

Industry 

Only  1  percent  or  less  of  the  work  force  was  involved  in  indus- 
try and  construction  in  the  late  1980s,  and  industrial  production 
and  construction  represented  only  14.2  percent  of  GDP  projected 
for  1991.  Handicrafts,  cement,  food  processing,  wood  milling,  and 
distilling  were  the  major  industries.  In  the  late  1980s,  there  about 
400  small-scale  cottage  and  industrial  units.  There  also  were  two 
cement  plants  under  the  Penden  Cement  Authority;  a  joint  ven- 
ture (the  government-sponsored  Tashi  Commercial  Corporation 
in  conjunction  with  the  World  Bank,  Norway,  and  Kuwait),  a  Bhu- 
tan Carbide  and  Chemicals  calcium  carbide  plant  (near  Phuntsho- 
ling),  and  factories  for  processing  fruit,  for  manufacturing  paper 
pulp,  wood  veneers,  and  particle  board  (Gedu  Wood  Manufac- 
turing Corporation  and  Bhutan  Board  Products),  and  for  produc- 
ing resin  and  turpentine.  Additionally,  there  were  three  distilleries 
and  a  salt  iodization  plant.  Other  small  industrial  enterprises 
manufactured  such  consumer  goods  as  soap,  confectionaries,  and 
furniture.  Most  of  the  larger  industries,  established  since  Bhutan's 
economic  modernization  began  in  the  1960s,  were  themselves 
modern  and  used  a  considerable  amount  of  labor-saving  technol- 
ogy. The  largest  industries  employed  no  more  than  sixty  or  seventy 
workers.  Many  of  the  newly  developing  industries  began  making 
public  stock  offerings  in  the  late  1980s. 

Mining 

The  mining  and  quarrying  industry  was  projected  to  produce 
1.5  percent  of  GDP  in  1991.  Limestone — used  in  cement  produc- 
tion— and  clay  were  the  major  minerals  being  extracted  in  the 
mid-1980s.  Mineral  production  also  has  included  marble,  dolomite, 
graphite,  and  slate.  In  addition,  deposits  of  copper,  gypsum,  lead, 
tin,  tungsten,  zinc,  coal,  beryl,  mica,  pyrites,  tufa,  and  talc  have 
been  found,  primarily  through  an  exploration  program  operated 
initially  by  the  Geological  Survey  of  India  and,  starting  in  1982, 
in  cooperation  with  the  Geological  Survey  of  Bhutan.  Although 
not  being  exploited  as  much  as  other  minerals,  Bhutan's  slate 
deposits  have  been  described  by  experts  as  some  of  the  best  in  the 
world.  Bhutan's  high-quality  limestone  deposits  and  energy 
resources  were  expected  to  take  on  increasing  importance  in  the 
1990s  because  of  the  contributions  they  could  make  to  the  ferro- 
silicon  industry,  which  the  government  hoped  to  invest  in  through 
Bhutan  Carbide  and  Chemicals. 


303 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 
Energy 

Electricity  and  gas  production  was  expected  by  the  government 
to  account  for  10.7  percent  of  GDP  in  1991.  Hydroelectric  power 
has  long  been  a  very  important  aspect  of  Bhutan's  economic  de- 
velopment as  a  low-cost  energy  source  supporting  more  capital- 
intensive  industries,  such  as  forestry,  mining,  and  cement  and  cal- 
cium carbide  production.  Bhutan's  steep  mountains,  deep  gorges, 
and  fast-flowing  rivers  create  abundant  hydroelectric  potential, 
which  the  government  began  to  develop  in  the  early  1960s  with 
India's  assistance.  In  1981  Bhutan  generated  22  million  kilowatt- 
hours  of  energy  from  hydroelectric  sources.  A  major  plant  in  south- 
west Bhutan — the  18,000-kilowatt  Jaldhaka  hydroelectric  plant — 
furnished  electricity  locally  and  exported  the  balance  to  India's  West 
Bengal.  The  major  expansion  of  hydroelectric  facilities  started  in 
1975  on  the  Wang  Chhu  between  Thimphu  and  Phuntsholing. 
Known  as  the  Chhukha  Hydel  Project,  it  helped  boost  the  nation's 
fledgling  industrial  development.  The  336-megawatt  Chhukha  plant 
came  on  line  in  1986  and  was  synchronized  with  the  Indian  grid 
that  same  year,  and  additional  capacity  became  available  in  1988. 
The  Nu2.44  billion  Chhukha  project  was  60  percent  paid  for  by 
India  and  budgeted  outside  the  normal  development  plan  process. 
It  was  planned  that  Bhutan  would  sell  at  low  cost  all  power  to  West 
Bengal  that  it  did  not  consume  itself.  At  the  same  cost,  Bhutan 
also  hoped  to  re-import  some  of  that  power  through  the  Indian  pow- 
er grid  into  southern  districts.  The  Chhukha  project  was  impor- 
tant not  only  because  it  supplied  electric  power  to  western  and 
southern  districts  but  also  because  it  provided  a  major  source  of 
income  for  the  government.  The  project's  gross  annual  income  was 
projected  at  Nu380  million  in  1989.  In  1989  nearly  95  percent  of 
Bhutan's  government-installed  power  generation — a  total  of  355 
megawatts — was  supplied  by  Chhukha,  and  a  total  of  some  20  prin- 
cipal towns  and  170  villages  had  been  electrified.  By  1990  Thim- 
phu's commercial  district  had  an  underground  cable  system  for 
its  power  supply. 

Besides  the  Chhukha  project,  government  installations  includ- 
ed seven  minihydroelectric  plants,  each  averaging  7,350  kilowatts 
capacity;  twelve  microhydroelectric  plants,  each  averaging  340 
kilowatts  capacity;  and  eight  diesel-powered  generation  stations, 
each  averaging  6,000  kilowatts  capacity.  Because  domestic  con- 
sumption was  low  (just  over  16  megawatts,  more  than  80  percent 
of  which  was  consumed  by  industry),  ample  power  could  be  ex- 
ported to  India.  The  project  not  only  cut  domestic  electricity  costs 
in  half,  but  also  revenues  from  electricity  sold  to  India  were  nearly 


304 


Bhutan 


equal  to  the  total  government  revenue  from  all  domestic  sources. 
Smaller  enterprises,  such  as  the  1.5-megawatt  Gyetsha  Mini-Hydel, 
which  was  inaugurated  in  1989,  brought  badly  needed  power  to 
Bumthang  and  was  expected  to  provide  additional  power  to  neigh- 
boring districts  by  1993.  Another  major  plant,  a  proposed  60-mega- 
watt  plant  at  Kurichu  in  eastern  Bhutan,  was  included  in  the  Sixth 
Development  Plan  (1987-92). 

Other  sources  of  energy  included  biogas,  which  was  used  in  some 
districts  for  lighting  and  cooking  and  was  primarily  generated  from 
cow  dung.  Solar  energy  was  used  for  a  variety  of  purposes,  including 
heating  dwellings  and  greenhouses  and  lighting  hospitals.  Despite 
the  potential  solar  energy  that  might  be  produced,  Bhutan's  moun- 
tainous terrain  prevents  maximum  use.  The  same  mountains  are 
funnels  for  powerful  winds,  however,  providing  another  viable 
renewable  energy  source.  High- technology  windmills  were  installed 
in  Wangdiphodrang  in  1987  to  produce  electricity  to  run  irriga- 
tion pumps. 

Still  another  source  of  fuel  in  the  1980s  was  wood.  Although 
Bhutanese  had  greater  access  to  electric  power  than  they  had  had 
previously,  traditional  methods  of  cooking  and  heating  required 
readily  available  fuel.  In  the  mid-1980s,  Bhutan  produced  a  coal 
equivalent  of  982,000  tons  of  fuelwood  per  year  to  meet  domestic 
needs.  Coal  itself  was  available  in  reserve  in  some  1.3  million  tons, 
but  recovery  was  difficult  and  the  quality  was  poor. 

Commerce 

Commercial  services  were  projected  to  generate  7.4  percent  of 
GDP  in  1991.  Much  of  Bhutan's  commerce  revolved  around  tourist- 
oriented  hotels  and  restaurants,  and  wholesale  and  retail  trade  made 
up  the  balance.  The  Bhutan  Chamber  of  Commerce  and  Industry 
served  as  a  formal  conduit  between  government  and  private- sector 
businesses.  The  chamber  was  established  with  government  sanc- 
tion and  leadership  in  1980,  but  it  made  a  slow  start.  In  1984  the 
first  meeting  was  held  between  chamber  members  and  heads  of 
government  departments,  and  the  Trade  Information  Centre  was 
established  as  a  unit  of  the  Department  of  Trade  and  Commerce 
to  provide  trade  and  commercial  information  to  both  the  public 
and  private  sectors.  Despite  these  initiatives,  the  Bhutan  Cham- 
ber of  Commerce  and  Industry  had  to  be  reorganized  in  1987;  the 
intent  was  that  the  chamber  would  play  a  "vital  role"  in  coor- 
dinating activities  in  the  government  and  private  sectors  and  pro- 
moting socioeconomic  development.  The  Druk  Gyalpo  himself 
criticized  the  chamber  in  1988  for  its  "extremely  poor  and  disap- 
pointing performance"  and  urged  it  to  take  on  a  greater  role  in 


305 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

national  development  and  to  help  build  a  strong  and  dynamic  econ- 
omy. Despite  these  initiatives,  the  Bhutan  Chamber  of  Commerce 
and  Industry  had  only  forty  members  in  1989. 

Labor  Force 

"The  economy  of  Bhutan  is  characterized  by  the  predominance 
of  people  engaged  in  self- employment,"  reported  the  government's 
Planning  Commission  in  1989,  "particularly  those  working  their 
own  land."  Statistics  available  for  the  mid-1980s  revealed  that  87 
percent  of  the  working-age  population  was  involved  in  agricultur- 
al work,  another  3.4  percent  in  government  services,  0.9  percent 
in  business,  2  percent  in  "other"  occupations,  and  6.5  percent — 
mostly  teenagers  and  young  adults — that  had  no  stated  occupa- 
tion. In  the  late  1980s,  there  was  a  serious  shortage  of  indigenous 
nonagricultural  labor  and,  in  the  government's  view,  an  overabun- 
dance of  foreign  laborers.  To  carry  out  the  construction  of  roads, 
hydropower  plants,  and  other  infrastructure  development  so  im- 
portant to  modernization,  the  government,  however,  has  had  to 
depend  upon  foreign  laborers.  Low  wages  for  laborers,  ties  to 
agricultural  work,  and  a  dispersed  population  led  to  the  influx  of 
migrant  labor,  primarily  Nepalese,  estimated  to  have  reached 
100,000  in  1988. 

The  increase  in  the  number  of  foreign  laborers  in  Bhutan  dur- 
ing the  1980s  resulted  in  a  government  campaign  to  identify  and 
expel  the  growing  number  of  those  without  work  permits.  In  a  crack- 
down starting  in  1986,  some  1,000  illegal  foreigners  were  expelled. 
Most  were  Nepalese;  Bangladeshis  and  Indians  made  up  the 
balance.  By  1988  the  crackdown  had  reduced  the  number  of  for- 
eign workers  and  provided  opportunities  for  some  4,000  unem- 
ployed Bhutanese  to  join  the  work  force. 

Trade  union  activity  was  not  legalized  until  1991.  There  was 
no  collective  bargaining,  and  labor-related  issues  were  nil  in  a  so- 
ciety in  which  less  than  1  percent  of  the  population  was  involved 
in  industrial  work.  Bhutan  was  not  a  member  of  the  International 
Labour  Organisation. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Roads 

Until  1961,  because  of  the  lack  of  paved  roads,  travel  in  Bhu- 
tan was  by  foot  or  on  muleback  or  horseback.  The  205-kilometer 
trek  from  the  Indian  border  to  Thimphu  took  six  days.  Modern 
road  construction  began  in  earnest  during  the  First  Development 
Plan  (1961-66).  The  first  paved  road,  175-kilometers-long,  was 


306 


Bhutan 


completed  in  1962  (a  branch  road  later  linked  Paro  with  the 
Phuntsholing-Thimphu  road).  Described  as  a  jeep  track,  it  linked 
Thimphu  and  Phuntsholing  with  Jaigaon,  West  Bengal.  The  travel 
time  by  motor  vehicle  from  the  border  to  Thimphu  had  shrunk 
to  six  hours.  Some  30,000  Indian  and  Nepalese  laborers  were  im- 
ported to  build  the  road  with  Indian  aid  at  a  time  when  India  was 
bolstering  its  strategic  defense  against  a  possible  Chinese  invasion. 
Bhutanese  also  were  obliged  to  donate  labor  for  the  construction 
work.  Another  road  connecting  Tashigang  with  Tawang,  Arunachal 
Pradesh,  also  was  built. 

By  the  mid-1970s,  about  1 ,500  kilometers  of  roads  had  been  built, 
largely  by  manual  labor.  There  was  a  linked  network  of  2,280  kilo- 
meters of  roads  in  1989;  at  least  1,761  kilometers  of  these  were 
paved  with  asphalt,  and  1 ,393  kilometers  were  classified  as  national 
highways  (see  fig.  16).  Despite  the  construction  of  surfaced  roads 
linking  the  principal  towns  in  the  south,  the  mountainous  terrain 
elsewhere  makes  travel  even  from  one  valley  to  the  next  quite 
difficult.  Most  roads  run  in  river  valleys.  As  part  of  the  Sixth  De- 
velopment Plan,  the  Department  of  Public  Works,  in  cooperation 
with  the  Indian  Border  Roads  Organization,  made  plans  to  con- 
struct and  upgrade  1 ,000  kilometers  of  roads  and  to  extend  the  road 
network  through  the  five  major  river  valleys  by  1992.  Motorable 
roads  were  not  the  only  important  development.  It  was  estimated 
as  part  of  the  Fifth  Development  Plan  that  Bhutan  also  needed  some 
2,500  kilometers  of  mule  tracks  to  connect  the  nation's  4,500  set- 
tlements. 

A  mountainous  country  with  numerous  watersheds,  Bhutan  also 
had  numerous  bridges.  Built  as  part  of  the  road  modernization  pro- 
gram, most  were  of  reinforced  or  prestressed  concrete  for  motor- 
able  roads  and  of  modular,  prefabricated  timber  on  secondary 
roads.  Suspended  footbridges  joined  paths  across  precipices  and 
waterways. 

Nationwide,  some  6,910  vehicles  were  registered  in  1988,  in- 
cluding 1,235  private  automobiles,  250  taxis,  118  buses,  1,105  four- 
wheel-drive  vehicles,  and  1,249  trucks.  The  most  prevalent  form 
of  transportation  was  motorcycles  and  scooters,  with  some  2,882 
registered  in  1988.  Diplomatic  offices  registered  the  balance  of  trans- 
portation vehicles.  Most  vehicles  were  of  Indian,  Japanese,  and 
European  manufacture.  The  Bhutan  Government  Transport  Ser- 
vice operated  a  fleet  of  buses  nationwide  and  provided  minibus 
service  twice  a  day  between  Thimphu  and  Phuntsholing.  A  subsidi- 
ary of  the  Royal  Insurance  Corporation,  the  Transport  Corporation 
of  Bhutan  also  ran  bus  service  between  Phuntsholing  and  Calcut- 
ta. In  FY  1989,  the  government  bus  service  carried  1.2  million 


307 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

passengers.  Starting  in  1985,  private  companies  operated  some  bus 
routes.  The  greater  availability  of  transportation  increased  oppor- 
tunities for  Bhutanese  citizens  to  travel  within  their  country  and 
abroad.  There  was  no  railroad  system,  but  a  small  monorail  trail 
was  inaugurated  in  Paro  in  1990.  It  was  used  to  haul  produce  to 
market. 

Civil  Aviation 

The  national  air  carrier  of  Bhutan  was  established  in  1981  as 
Royal  Bhutan  Airlines,  known  as  Druk-Air.  Thrice- weekly,  ninety- 
minute  service  between  Paro  and  Calcutta  was  inaugurated  in  1983 
using  a  Dornier  228-200  twenty-seat  airplane  purchased  from  West 
Germany.  A  second  Dornier  was  later  added,  increasing  round- 
trips  between  Paro  and  Calcutta  to  five  weekly  during  the  busy 
spring  and  fall  tourist  seasons.  By  1991  Druk-Air  operated  inter- 
national flights  to  Bangkok,  Calcutta,  New  Delhi,  Dhaka,  and  Kath- 
mandu.  In  November  1988,  Druk-Air  began  using  a  four-engine, 
eighty-seat  British  Aerospace  BAe  146-100  airplane  for  its  five 
flights  weekly:  two  from  Bangkok  and  Dhaka,  two  from  New  Del- 
hi and  Kathmandu,  and  one  from  Calcutta.  The  cabin  crew  was 
trained  by  Thai  Airways.  By  1989  the  two  Dornier  aircraft  had 
been  taken  out  of  service.  As  Druk-Air  flights  increased,  so  did 
the  number  of  passengers.  In  1983  some  2,800  passengers  were 
carried,  and  by  1987,  the  latest  year  for  which  statistics  were  report- 
ed by  the  government,  8,700  passengers  were  carried. 

Travelers  arriving  at  the  one-story  international  terminal  in 
Paro — the  only  airport  with  a  permanent-surface  runway — were 
transported  by  minibus  to  Thimphu.  The  Paro  airport  had  its  run- 
way extended  from  1,500  meters  to  2,000  meters  in  1988  and  was 
further  improved  with  a  new  hangar  and  an  extended  runway  in 
1990.  There  was  a  small,  paved-runway  airport  at  Yonphula, 
Tashigang  District  but  it  was  seldom  used.  Thimphu  was  served 
by  air  only  by  helicopter,  but  helipads  were  available  throughout 
the  country. 

Aviation  in  Bhutan  in  the  1980s  and  early  1990s  was  regulated 
by  the  Department  of  Civil  Aviation  and  Transport.  Under  the 
Ministry  of  Communications,  the  department  provided  weather 
data  and  air  traffic  controllers.  Druk-Air,  although  government 
owned,  was  a  separate  entity  from  the  regulatory  department. 

Posts  and  Telecommunications 

Mail  and  telecommunications  services  in  1991  were  under  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Ministry  of  Communications 's  Department  of 
Posts  and  the  Department  of  Telecommunications,  respectively. 


308 


Bhutan 


With  a  labor  force  of  nearly  900  employees,  the  departments  worked 
hard  to  modernize  Bhutan's  telecommunications  and  to  provide 
links  with  other  nations. 

Although  a  courier  system  for  internal  official  mail  had  been  in 
existence  for  centuries,  the  modern  postal  system  was  introduced 
only  in  1962.  Prior  to  then,  external  mail  was  sent  through  Tibet 
or  India.  Bhutan's  first  postage  stamps  were  issued  in  1955  for  in- 
ternal use  only.  After  the  construction  of  modern  roads,  post  offices 
were  built  throughout  the  kingdom.  Bhutan  joined  the  Universal 
Postal  Union,  a  specialized  agency  of  the  UN,  in  1969.  Thereafter, 
improvements  were  made  in  handling  international  mail  and  for- 
eign parcels.  By  1988  there  were  two  general  post  offices,  fifty-five 
main  post  offices,  and  twenty-eight  branch  post  offices. 

The  sale  of  commemorative  postage  stamps  has  been  a  foreign- 
exchange  earner  for  Bhutan  since  1962,  when  the  first  internal  - 
and  external-use  stamps  were  issued,  with  the  help  of  a  London 
printer,  in  rupee  demoninations.  Until  tourism  passed  the  sale  of 
colorful  stamps  to  foreign  collectors  as  the  major  foreign-exchange 
earner  in  1974,  the  sale  of  postal  stamps  was  the  nation's  principal 
source  of  foreign  revenue.  Sales  averaged  around  US$44,000  a  year 
in  the  1970s,  peaking  at  US$100,000  in  1979.  In  a  related  activi- 
ty, Bhutan  also  issued  commemorative  gold  and  silver  coins  as  a 
revenue  generator. 

As  of  1991,  Bhutan  had  more  than  750  kilometers  of  telephone 
trunk  lines,  one  digital  telephone  exchange  in  Thimphu,  and  twelve 
analog  exchanges  in  other  areas.  The  Department  of  Telecommu- 
nications planned  to  modernize  all  telephone  exchanges  and  to  con- 
nect all  eighteen  districts  to  the  digital  system  by  1997.  The 
telephone  exchange  in  Thimphu  by  1990  had  a  10,000-line  capa- 
bility. As  the  1990s  began,  there  were  nearly  2,000  telephones  or 
one  telephone  for  about  every  700  people  according  to  official  in- 
formation. Internationally,  Thimphu  was  linked  by  a  microwave 
system  through  Hashimara  to  satellite  ground  stations  in  Calcutta 
and  New  Delhi.  The  link,  financed  by  India  in  1984,  provided  sixty 
channels  and  had  a  potential  for  300  channels  when  fully  opera- 
tional. Additionally,  using  a  twenty- terminal  French  Sagem  telex 
system,  service  between  Thimphu  and  Phuntsholing  was  installed 
in  1986,  and  international  service  through  New  Delhi  was  connected 
in  1987;  this  facility  was  relocated  to  Calcutta  in  1990.  In  1989 
the  installation  of  a  Japanese-equipped  ground  satellite  station  at 
Thimphu  using  International  Telecommunications  Satellite  Organi- 
zation (Intelsat)  circuits  substantially  enhanced  international 
telephone  service. 


311 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

There  were  thirty-nine  point-to-point  high-frequency  radio  sta- 
tions, including  two  installed  in  Bhutan's  embassies  in  New  Delhi 
and  Dhaka  in  1988  for  internal  administrative  communications. 
There  also  were  eight  telegraph  offices.  The  government-run  Bhu- 
tan Broadcasting  Service  in  Thimphu  started  with  three  hours  of 
broadcasts  per  week  in  1973  and  had  expanded  to  thirty  hours  per 
week  by  1988.  An  FM  station  in  Thimphu  and  shortwave  receivers 
throughout  the  rest  of  the  country  received  its  daily  programming 
in  Dzongkha,  English,  Sharchopkha,  and  Nepali.  Whereas  there 
were  only  7,000  radio  receivers  in  Bhutan  in  1980,  by  1988  be- 
tween 15,000  and  22,000  sets  were  reported.  In  1991  anew  broad- 
casting complex  was  opened  in  Thimphu  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Department  of  Telecommunications.  Built  with  Indian  aid,  the 
complex  included  a  high-power  fifty-kilowatt  shortwave  transmit- 
ter capable  of  covering  all  of  Bhutan  and  neighboring  areas.  There 
was  no  domestic  television,  but  there  was  a  big  demand  for  videos, 
especially  in  the  larger  towns. 

Tourism 

Tourism  has  been  an  important  industry  and  the  country's  lar- 
gest foreign-exchange  earner  since  its  inception  in  1974.  Most 
tourists  visit  cultural  sites — particularly  dzong  and  temples — and 
observe  seasonal  festivals  featuring  masked  dances  and  archery  con- 
tests (archery  is  the  national  sport  of  Bhutan)  or  go  on  trekking 
expeditions  on  foot  or  mounted  on  horses  or  yaks.  Limited  to  land 
travelers  from  India  until  Druk- Air's  international  service  became 
operational  in  1983,  tourism  was  closely  controlled  by  the  state- 
run  tourism  agency,  the  Bhutan  Tourism  Corporation.  Tourism 
reaped  increasing  foreign  exchange  in  its  first  decade,  ranging  from 
US$300,000  from  390  visitors  in  1976  to  US$1.4  million  from  1,325 
visitors  in  1982.  By  1984  some  2,000  tourists  visited  Bhutan  an- 
nually. By  1987  revenues  had  risen  to  more  than  US$2  million 
earned  from  the  2,524  tourists  who  visited  the  country  that  year. 
The  government  then  decided  to  limit  the  number  of  tourists  to 
around  2,000  a  year  and  restricted  access  seasonally  and  to  cer- 
tain historical,  cultural,  and  scenic  sites.  These  restrictions  result- 
ed in  decreases  to  2,199  tourists  and  to  revenues  of  US$1.9  million 
in  1988.  In  1991,  however,  the  Ministry  of  Trade,  Industry,  and 
Tourism  announced  plans  to  gradually  double  the  number  of  en- 
try visas  granted  and  to  reduce  the  charges  levied  on  tour  opera- 
tors. The  changes  provided  for  the  privatization  of  the  Bhutan 
Tourism  Corporation.  In  addition,  whereas  only  group  tours  were 
allowed  before  1991,  after  that  date  individual  tourists  were  granted 
visas  for  prearranged  tours.  Visited  from  1987  to  1990  by  only  a 


312 


Paro,  the  air  gateway  to  Bhutan  and  a  major  district  seat 

Courtesy  Ann  Kinney 

few  travelers,  many  of  Bhutan's  religious  sites  were  becoming  more 
accessible  to  tourists  in  1991.  However,  a  substantial  per  person 
tariff,  ranging  from  US$80  to  US$200  per  day  depending  on  the 
time  of  year  and  type  of  package  visit,  was  kept  and  helped  boost 
revenues. 

Opened  to  increasing  tourism,  Bhutan  planned  to  turn  over  its 
government-run  hotels  to  private  management  to  improve  its  lodg- 
ing accommodations.  The  largest  number  of  tourists  from  a  single 
nation,  nearly  600  in  1988,  came  from  the  United  States,  and 
tourists  from  West  Germany  and  Japan  were  close  behind  in 
numbers. 

Government  and  Politics 
The  Monarchy 

The  hereditary  monarchy  of  Bhutan  was  established  in  1907  af- 
ter 300  years  of  dual  theocratic-civil  government  (see  Establish- 
ment of  the  Hereditary  Monarchy,  1907,  this  ch.).  The  Druk 
Gyalpo — the  king — is  both  head  of  state  and  head  of  government. 
In  the  process  of  coming  to  power,  the  first  Druk  Gyalpo,  Ugyen 
Wangchuck,  who  reigned  from  1907  to  1926,  unified  the  nation, 
established  friendly  relations  with  Britain,  and  set  his  dynasty's 


313 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

political  agenda.  As  of  1991,  there  had  been  three  other  hereditary 
monarchs:  Jigme  Wangchuck  (1926-52),  Jigme  Dorji  Wangchuck 
(1952-72),  and  Jigme  Singye  Wangchuck  (since  1972).  Decem- 
ber 17,  the  anniversary  of  the  day  Ugyen  Wangchuck  became  the 
first  hereditary  monarch  in  1907,  is  Bhutan's  National  Day. 

Established  as  an  absolute  monarchy  in  1907,  Bhutan  first  moved 
toward  a  constitutional  monarchy  in  1953  with  the  foundation  of 
its  National  Assembly.  In  1963  the  monarch's  title  was  changed 
from  "His  Highness"  to  "His  Majesty  the  Druk  Gyalpo"  in  a 
move  to  assert  a  distinct  Bhutanese  identity.  The  Druk  Gyalpo  re- 
tained veto  power  over  actions  of  the  National  Assembly  until  1 969 
when  the  National  Assembly,  following  his  1968  decree,  became 
the  kingdom's  sovereign  institution.  After  1969,  the  National  As- 
sembly could  remove  the  Druk  Gyalpo  through  a  no-confidence 
vote,  and  he  no  longer  had  veto  power.  To  secure  the  Wangchuck 
Dynasty,  however,  should  the  Druk  Gyalpo  be  dethroned  through 
a  no-confidence  vote,  the  Wangchuck  family  member  next  in  line 
of  succession  would  automatically  take  the  throne.  Also  beginning 
in  1969,  at  the  insistence  of  the  Druk  Gyalpo  a  "democratic  monar- 
chy" was  to  be  determined  through  triennial  votes  of  confidence 
in  the  Druk  Gyalpo 's  rule — a  system  later  abolished. 

In  1972  Jigme  Singye  Wangchuck  succeeded  his  father,  Jigme 
Dorji  Wangchuck,  who  had  involved  the  young  prince  in  the  work 
of  government  and  had  appointed  him  crown  prince  and  ponlop 
of  Tongsa  only  a  few  months  before  dying.  After  his  accession  to 
the  throne  in  1972,  the  new  Druk  Gyalpo  was  assisted  by  his  un- 
cle, Dasho  (Prince)  Namgyal  Wangchuck,  and  his  elder  sisters, 
Ashi  Sonam  Chhoden  Wangchuck  and  Ashi  Dechen  Wangmo 
Wangchuck,  who  served  in  the  ministries  of  finance  and  develop- 
ment as  the  Druk  Gyalpo 's  representatives.  (Ashi  Sonam  Chhoden 
Wangchuck  later  became  minister  of  finance.)  Jigme  Singye  Wang- 
chuck was  formally  enthroned  in  June  1974. 

In  1979  Jigme  Singye  Wangchuck  privately  married  four  sis- 
ters who  were  descendants  of  two  of  the  shabdrung,  the  rulers  of  the 
old  dual  system  of  government.  In  1988,  in  order  to  legitimize  the 
eventual  succession  to  the  throne  for  his  oldest  son,  Dasho  Jigme 
Gesar  Namgyal  Wangchuck,  the  Druk  Gyalpo  and  his  four  sister- 
queens  were  married  again  in  a  public  ceremony  in  Punakha.  At 
the  time  of  the  public  wedding,  it  was  reported  that  the  Druk  Gyalpo 
lived  in  a  small,  simply  furnished  house,  across  from  the  Tashi- 
chhodzong  (Fortress  of  the  Glorious  Religion),  the  year-round 
central  government  complex  in  Thimphu.  His  four  queens  each 
maintained  separate  residences.  The  Druk  Gyalpo 's  mother,  the 
Dowager  Queen  Pemadechen  (Ashi  Kesang  Dorji),  continued  to 


314 


Bhutan 


reside  in  the  royal  palace  at  Dechenchholing,  living  as  a  Buddhist 
nun.  The  Tashichhodzong,  a  stone-and-timber  structure,  has  thick 
whitewashed  walls,  seven  towers  covered  with  red  roofs,  and  a  series 
of  interior  courtyards.  The  entire  structure  is  richly  ornamented. 
The  current  Tashichhodzong  complex,  which  has  more  than  100 
rooms,  was  completed  in  1969  after  seven  years  of  construction 
on  the  site  of  an  older  dzong  of  the  same  name.  Originally  built 
in  the  twelfth  century,  the  Tashichhodzong  had  been  rebuilt  in  the 
eighteenth  century  and  required  the  1962-69  reconstruction  be- 
cause of  damage  over  the  centuries  from  fires  and  earthquakes. 
It  also  was  the  residence  of  the  spiritual  leader  of  Bhutan,  the  Je 
Khenpo,  during  the  summer. 

After  coming  to  the  throne  in  1972,  Jigme  Singye  Wangchuck 
became  increasingly  interested  in  economic  development  and 
traveled  extensively  throughout  the  country.  He  also  has  traveled 
a  great  deal  outside  of  Bhutan,  attending  international  meetings 
and  personally  representing  his  country  in  New  Delhi  on  frequent 
occasions.  A  young,  vigorous  head  of  state  unafraid  to  break  from 
the  bureaucracy  and  constraints  of  his  office — including  his  trips 
to  the  countryside  where  the  Druk  Gyalpo  could  be  seen  "serving 
the  people" — Jigme  Singye  Wangchuck  presented  the  monarchy 
as  progressive  and  symbolic  of  national  unity. 

Structure  of  the  Government 

Legal  Basis 

Bhutan  does  not  have  a  written  constitution  or  organic  laws.  The 
1907  document  submitted  by  the  monastic  and  government  lead- 
ers was  an  agreement  only  to  establish  an  absolute  hereditary 
monarchy.  Bhutan's  only  legal  or  constitutional  basis  is  the  1953 
royal  decree  for  the  Constitution  of  the  National  Assembly.  The 
1953  constitution  set  forth  eighteen  succinct  "rules"  for  the  proce- 
dures of  the  National  Assembly  and  the  conduct  of  its  members. 
The  May  1968  revision  reiterated  and  elucidated  some  of  the  eigh- 
teen rules  but  revised  others.  Beginning  in  1969,  the  powers  of  the 
speaker  of  the  National  Assembly  were  strengthened,  and  the  Druk 
Gyalpo 's  veto  power  was  eliminated. 

Legislature 

The  unicameral  National  Assembly— the  Tshogdu — comprises 
the  legislative  branch  of  government.  The  National  Assembly  has 
the  power  to  enact  civil,  criminal,  and  property  laws;  to  appoint 
and  remove  ministers;  to  debate  policy  issues  as  a  means  of  pro- 
viding input  to  government  decision  making;  and  to  control  the 


315 


316 


Tashichhodzong  complex,  Bhutan 's  seat  of  government  in  Thimphu 

Courtesy  Elsa  Martz 


317 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

auditor  general,  who  has  approval  authority  over  government  ex- 
penditures (see  fig.  17). 

Since  its  establishment  in  1953,  the  National  Assembly  has  varied 
in  size  from  140  to  200  members.  According  to  Rule  7  of  the  Con- 
stitution of  the  National  Assembly,  the  legislature  sets  its  size  ev- 
ery five  years.  The  National  Assembly  has  three  categories  of 
members:  representatives  of  the  people  elected  by  indirect  vote  every 
three  years  and  comprising  between  half  and  two-thirds  of  the  Na- 
tional Assembly  membership;  monastic  representatives,  also  ap- 
pointed for  three-year  terms  and  constituting  about  one-third  of 
the  membership;  and  government  officials  nominated  by  the  Druk 
Gyalpo.  The  first  woman  member  of  the  National  Assembly  was 
seated  in  1979. 

In  1989  there  were  150  members  in  the  National  Assembly,  100 
of  whom  were  representatives  of  the  general  public.  Under  1981 
rules,  qualified  citizens  over  twenty-five  years  of  age  can  be  nomi- 
nated at  general  public  meetings  by  village  heads  and  adult 
representatives  of  each  household  (gung)  and  "joint  family."  Once 
nominations  are  certified  by  village  heads  and  local  government 
officials,  they  are  forwarded  to  the  speaker  of  the  National  Assem- 
bly for  "final  declaration  of  the  nominee  as  a  member  of  the  Na- 
tional Assembly. ' '  The  other  fifty  members  are  made  up  of  monastic 
representatives  nominated  by  the  Central  Monastic  Body  in  Thim- 
phu (or  Punakha  in  the  winter)  and  eight  district  monastic  bodies, 
members  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  (Lhengye  Shungtsong),  mem- 
bers of  the  Royal  Advisory  Council  (Lodoi  Tsokde),  secretaries 
of  various  government  departments,  district  heads,  others  nomi- 
nated by  the  government,  and  a  representative  nominated  by  the 
Bhutan  Chamber  of  Commerce  and  Industry.  The  National  As- 
sembly meets  at  least  once  and  sometimes  twice  a  year — in  May 
and  June  and  again  in  October  and  November;  each  session  lasts 
about  four  weeks.  Emergency  sessions  can  also  be  called  by  the 
Druk  Gyalpo. 

The  National  Assembly  elects  a  speaker  from  among  its  mem- 
bers and  is  authorized  to  enact  laws,  advise  the  government  on 
constitutional  and  political  matters,  and  hold  debates  on  impor- 
tant issues.  Executive-branch  organizations  are  responsible  to  the 
National  Assembly.  Powers  of  the  National  Assembly  include  direct- 
ly questioning  government  officials  and  forcing  ministers  to  resign 
if  there  is  a  two- thirds  no-confidence  vote. 

National  Assembly  votes  are  secret  in  principle,  but  in  practice 
decisions  are  almost  always  made  by  reaching  a  public  consensus. 
The  National  Assembly,  housed  in  the  Tashichhodzong,  provides 
a  forum  for  presenting  grievances  and  redressing  administrative 


318 


Bhutan 


problems.  The  Druk  Gyalpo  cannot  formally  veto  bills  that  the  Na- 
tional Assembly  passes,  but  he  can  refer  them  back  for  reconsider- 
ation. Although  criticism  of  the  Druk  Gyalpo  was  not  permitted 
in  the  public  media,  it  was  allowed  and  took  place  in  National  As- 
sembly debates  in  the  1980s. 

Executive 

At  the  apex  of  the  executive  branch  is  the  Druk  Gyalpo,  who 
is  both  head  of  state  and  head  of  the  government.  Responsible  to 
him  are  two  advisory  and  executive  organizations:  the  Royal  Ad- 
visory Council  and  the  Council  of  Ministers.  There  also  is  the  Royal 
Secretariat,  which  serves  as  an  intermediary  between  the  Druk 
Gyalpo  and  the  Council  of  Ministers. 

The  Royal  Advisory  Council  was  mentioned  in  the  1953  Con- 
stitution of  the  National  Assembly  (members  of  the  council  are  con- 
currendy  members  of  the  National  Assembly),  but  it  took  on  greater 
importance  in  1965  when  the  Druk  Gyalpo  installed  representa- 
tives elected  by  the  monastic  bodies  and  the  National  Assembly. 
In  1989  the  council's  membership  included  a  representative  of  the 
government,  two  representatives  of  the  monasteries,  six  regional 
representatives,  and  a  chairperson,  all  serving  for  five-year  terms. 
The  chairperson  and  the  government  representative  are  appoint- 
ed by  the  Druk  Gyalpo;  the  two  monks  represent  the  central  and 
district  monastic  bodies.  Monk  representatives,  according  to  1979 
regulations  for  council  membership,  are  required  to  be  literate  and 
"highly  knowledgeable  about  the  Drukpa  Kargyupa  religion." 
Monk  nominees  are  subject  to  the  approval  of  the  speaker  of  the 
National  Assembly.  The  regional  representatives  are  elected  by  the 
National  Assembly  from  a  list  endorsed  by  village  assemblies. 
Representing  the  southeastern,  southwestern,  western,  eastern,  cen- 
tral, and  the  Thimphu-Paro-Ha  regions,  they  are  required  to  be 
literate,  knowledgeable  about  Bhutanese  traditional  culture  and  cus- 
toms with  "some  knowledge  of  modern  customs  and  etiquette," 
"well-behaved  and  able  to  speak  well,"  "able  to  shoulder  respon- 
sibility, and  far-sighted."  As  the  principal  consulting  body  to  the 
Druk  Gyalpo,  the  Royal  Advisory  Council  is  a  key  state  organiza- 
tion and  interacts  most  directly  with  the  National  Assembly. 

Chaired  by  the  Druk  Gyalpo,  the  Council  of  Ministers  was  es- 
tablished in  1968  with  the  approval  of  the  National  Assembly.  In 
1991  it  comprised  seven  ministers  and  the  Druk  Gyalpo 's  represen- 
tative in  each  ministry  (agriculture;  communications;  finance;  for- 
eign affairs;  home  affairs;  social  services;  and  trade,  industry,  and 
tourism).  The  largest  ministry  by  far  was  the  Ministry  of  Social 
Services,  which  ran  the  nation's  education  and  health  systems  and 


319 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


o 

P 
(A 


tin 


od| 

*> 

.2 

o  <2 

—  *z 

—  At 

k  Gy 

(King 

Roya 
creta 

Counci 
Ministt 

Dru 

Se 

IS 


a 


<2  -2 
_  r  <o 
3  to  « 

will 
o 

c 


h  «  £ 

o  £5 
I'll 


.E  E 
2  ° 


>s  o 


°  is 


II 


f  * 


W  00 

IS 


w  oo 

•a  j&m. 

n 


a  c 

IS 


1  «> 

to  .s 


!>5 


V  ■  . 

o  I 

■B  * 

TO  ~ 

ft  8 


S  2 


Cl  bo 


111 

TO    U  =  ~ 

OS   <u  I 

•  —     TO  <j 

^  T  5 

s  «  s 


320 


Bhutan 


included  nearly  26  percent  of  all  civil  service  employees.  Two  of 
the  ministers  in  1990 — the  minister  of  finance  (Ashi  Sonam 
Chhoden  Wangchuck)  and  the  minister  of  home  affairs  (Dasho 
Namgyal  Wangchuck) — were  members  of  the  royal  family. 

Until  the  1960s,  the  Royal  Secretariat  played  a  major  role  in 
government  affairs.  The  key  officials  of  the  Royal  Secretariat  were 
the  Druk  Gyalpo's  representative  in  the  Royal  Bhutan  Army,  the 
royal  chief  secretary,  and  the  royal  finance  secretary.  After  the  es- 
tablishment of  the  Council  of  Ministers  and  subsequent  shift  of  ad- 
ministrative and  financial  matters  out  of  the  palace,  however,  the 
Royal  Secretariat's  day-to-day  role  diminished  in  importance.  Re- 
lations between  the  two  bodies  have  been  described  as  cordial, 
nevertheless,  and  ministers  usually  were  selected  from  among  Royal 
Secretariat  personnel. 

Judiciary 

The  highest-level  court  is  the  Supreme  Court  of  Appeal — the 
Druk  Gyalpo  himself.  The  Supreme  Court  of  Appeal  hears  appeals 
of  decisions  emanating  from  the  High  Court  (Thrimkhang  Gong- 
ma).  In  1989  the  High  Court,  which  was  established  in  1968  to 
review  lower-court  appeals,  had  six  justices  (including  a  chief 
justice),  two  of  whom  were  elected  by  the  National  Assembly  and 
four  of  whom  were  appointed  by  the  Druk  Gyalpo,  for  five-year 
terms.  Each  district  has  a  magistrate's  court  (Dzongkhag  Thrim- 
khang), headed  by  a  magistrate  or  thrimpon,  from  which  appeals 
can  be  made  to  the  High  Court.  Minor  civil  disputes  are  adjudi- 
cated by  a  village  head.  All  citizens  have  been  granted  the  right 
to  make  informal  petitions  to  the  Druk  Gyalpo,  some  of  which  have 
been  made  reportedly  by  citizens  who  flagged  down  the  Druk  Gyal- 
po's  automobile  as  he  toured  the  nation. 

Civil  Service 

Bhutan's  government  employees  have  been  under  the  authori- 
ty of  the  Royal  Civil  Service  Commission  since  its  establishment 
in  1982.  Part  of  the  commission's  mandate  was  to  reform  govern- 
ment service.  With  assistance  from  the  UNDP,  the  commission 
held  a  conference  in  1986  and  assessed  the  civil  service.  Plans  were 
laid  out  for  providing  in-country  and  foreign  training,  improving 
training  effectiveness,  and  organizing  a  system  by  which  person- 
nel and  training  management  would  be  linked  within  departments. 
Civil  service  rules  adopted  in  1989  established  procedures  for 
government  employment  and  prohibited  civil  servants  from  being 
assigned  to  their  home  districts.  Starting  in  1989,  candidates  for 
government  service  were  given  only  one  opportunity  to  pass  the 


321 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

civil  service  selection  examination.  Once  they  were  selected,  pro- 
motions were  available  through  seventeen  grades,  from  the  lowest 
clerk  to  just  below  the  deputy  minister  level. 

In  an  efficiency  drive  in  the  late  1980s,  the  civil  service  was 
reduced  through  reorganization  (the  government  was  scaled  down 
from  thirty- three  entities  at  and  above  the  department  level  in  1985 
to  nineteen  in  1989),  reassignment  to  local  government,  retirements, 
and  "voluntary  resignations."  In  1987  there  were  13,182  civil  ser- 
vice workers,  but  by  1989  the  number  of  regular  civil  service  em- 
ployees had  dropped  to  11,099.  An  additional  3,855  persons  worked 
under  government  contract  or  as  "wage"  employees  throughout 
all  parts  of  the  government.  More  than  1,650  of  them,  however, 
were  employed  by  government-run  industries,  and  another  848 
worked  for  the  Chhukha  Hydel  Project.  The  total  number  of  per- 
sons working  under  the  civil  service  in  July  1989  was  15,802.  Later 
in  1989,  however,  all  public  and  joint  sector  corporation  employees 
were  removed  from  the  civil  service  rolls.  Because  of  the  national 
shortage  of  skilled  workers,  3,137  members  of  the  civil  service  in 
1989  were  reportedly  "nonnationals,"  mostly  ethnic  Nepalese. 

Local  Government 

Local  government  in  1991  was  organized  into  four  zones,  or 
dzongdey,  and  eighteen  districts,  or  dzongkhag  (see  fig.  13).  Before 
the  zonal  administration  system  was  established  beginning  in  1988 
and  1989,  the  central  government  interacted  directly  with  district 
governments.  The  new  level  of  administration  was  established,  ac- 
cording to  official  sources,  to  "bring  administration  closer  to  the 
people"  and  to  "expedite  projects  without  having  to  refer  con- 
stantly to  the  ministry."  In  other  words,  the  zonal  setup  was  to 
provide  a  more  efficient  distribution  of  personnel  and  adminis- 
trative and  technical  skills.  The  zonal  boundaries  were  said  to  be 
dictated  by  geophysical  and  agroclimatic  considerations.  Zonal  ad- 
ministrators responsible  for  coordinating  central  policies  and  plans 
acted  as  liaisons  between  the  central  ministries  and  departments 
and  district  governments.  Each  zonal  headquarters  had  nine  divi- 
sions: administration,  accounts,  agriculture,  animal  husbandry,  edu- 
cation, engineering,  health,  irrigation,  and  planning.  The  divisions 
were  staffed  with  former  civil  service  employees  of  the  Ministry  of 
Home  Affairs  and  with  technical  personnel  from  the  various  sec- 
tors in  the  districts.  Four  zones  were  established  in  1988  and  1989: 
Zone  I,  including  four  western  districts,  seated  at  Chhukha;  Zone  II, 
including  four  west-central  districts,  seated  at  Damphu;  Zone  III,  in- 
cluding four  east-central  districts,  seated  at  Geylegphug;  and  Zone 
IV,  including  five  eastern  districts,  seated  at  Yonphula.  Although 


322 


Bhutan 


Thimphu  District  and  Thimphu  Municipality  were  within  the 
boundaries  of  Zone  I,  they  remained  outside  the  zonal  system.  By 
1991,  however,  only  Zone  IV  was  fully  functioning. 

Eighteen  districts  comprised  local  government  at  the  next  eche- 
lon. Each  district  was  headed  by  an  appointed  district  officer  (dzong- 
da,  assisted  by  a  deputy  district  officer,  dzongda  wongmo  or  dzongrab), 
who  was  responsible  for  development  planning  and  civil  adminis- 
tration. Formerly  appointed  by  the  Druk  Gyalpo,  district  officers 
have  been  appointed  by  the  Royal  Civil  Service  Commission  since 
1982.  Each  district  also  had  a  district  development  committee  com- 
prising elected  representatives  and  government  officials. 

Districts  were  further  subdivided  into  subdistricts  (dungkhag)  and 
village  blocks  or  groups  (gewog).  Ten  of  the  eighteen  districts  had 
subdistricts,  which  were  further  subdivided  into  village  groups.  The 
subdistrict  served  as  an  intermediate  level  of  administration  be- 
tween district  government  and  some  villages  in  larger  districts. 
These  same  districts  also  had  village  groups  that  were  immediate- 
ly subordinate  to  the  district  government.  In  the  remaining  eight 
smaller  districts,  village  groups  were  directly  subordinate  to  the 
district  government.  In  1989  there  were  191  village  groups,  67  of 
which  were  organized  into  18  subdistricts  and  124  of  which  were 
immediately  subordinate  to  the  district  government.  Subdistrict 
officers  (dungpa)  led  the  subdistricts,  and  village  heads  (gup  in  the 
north,  mandal  in  the  south)  were  in  charge  of  the  village  groups. 
Despite  greater  central  government  involvement  with  economic  de- 
velopment programs  since  the  1960s,  villages  continued  to  have 
broad  local  autonomy.  There  were  4,500  villages  and  settlements 
in  1991. 

Bhutan  also  has  two  municipal  corporations — Thimphu  and 
Phuntsholing — headed  by  mayors  (thrompon).  Thimphu's  municipal 
corporation  was  set  up  in  1974  as  an  experiment  in  local  self- 
government.  Headed  by  a  chairperson,  the  corporation  concen- 
trated on  sanitation  and  beautification  projects.  A  superintending 
engineer,  an  administrative  officer,  a  plant  protection  officer,  and 
a  tax  collector  served  under  a  chief  executive  officer.  Ward  coun- 
cillors carried  out  local  representation  in  the  city's  seven  wards. 
In  subsequent  years,  municipal  boards  were  set  up  in  the  larger 
towns. 

Political  Developments 

The  political  forces  that  shaped  Bhutan  after  its  seventeenth- 
century  unification  were  primarily  internal  until  the  arrival  of  the 
British  in  the  eighteenth  century.  Thereafter,  British  pressure  and 
protection  influenced  Bhutan  and  continued  to  do  so  until  Britain's 


323 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

withdrawal  from  the  mainland  of  South  Asia  in  1947.  The  nation- 
alist movements  that  had  brought  independence  to  India  had  sig- 
nificant effects  on  Sikkim  and  Nepal.  Because  of  its  relative  isolation, 
however,  they  left  Bhutan  largely  unaffected  until  the  growing 
Nepalese  minority  became  increasingly  exposed  to  the  radical  pol- 
itics of  Nepalese  migrants  from  India.  These  migrants  brought  po- 
litical ideas  inspired  by  Indian  democratic  principles  and  agitation 
to  the  minority  community  in  southern  Bhutan.  By  1950  the 
presence  of  that  community  had  resulted  in  government  restric- 
tions on  the  cultivation  of  forest  lands  and  on  further  migration. 

Expatriate  Nepalese,  who  resettled  in  West  Bengal  and  Assam 
after  leaving  Bhutan,  formed  the  Bhutan  State  Congress  in  1952 
to  represent  the  interests  of  other  expatriates  in  India  as  well  as 
the  communities  they  had  left  behind.  An  effort  to  expand  their 
operations  into  Bhutan  with  a  satyagraha  (nonviolent  resistance) 
movement  in  1954  failed  in  the  face  of  the  mobilization  of  Bhu- 
tan's militia  and  a  lack  of  enthusiasm  among  those  Nepalese  in 
Bhutan  who  did  not  want  to  risk  their  already  tenuous  status.  The 
government  further  diffused  the  Bhutan  State  Congress  movement 
by  granting  concessions  to  the  minority  and  allowing  Nepalese 
representation  in  the  National  Assembly.  The  Bhutan  State  Con- 
gress continued  to  operate  in  exile  until  its  decline  and  gradual  dis- 
appearance in  the  early  1960s.  The  leaders  in  exile  were  pardoned 
in  1969  and  permitted  to  return. 

Despite  the  absence  of  political  parties,  political  activities  car- 
ried out  by  elite  political  factions  have  played  a  role  since  the  1960s. 
These  factional  politics  have  generally  been  devoid  of  ideology, 
focusing  instead  on  specific  issues  or  events.  Only  with  the  1964 
assassination  of  Lonchenjigme  Palden  Dorji  did  factional  politics 
cause  a  national  crisis  (see  Modernization  under  Jigme  Dorji, 
1952-72,  this  ch.). 

Government  decrees  promulgated  in  the  1980s  sought  to  preserve 
Bhutan's  cultural  identity  in  a  "one  nation,  one  people"  policy 
called  driglam  namzha  (national  customs  and  etiquette).  The  govern- 
ment hoped  to  achieve  integration  through  requiring  national 
dress — the  kira  for  women  and  the  gho  for  men — at  formal  gather- 
ings (by  a  May  1989  decree  that  was  quickly  reversed)  and  insist- 
ing that  individual  conduct  be  based  on  Buddhist  precepts.  The 
government  stressed  standardization  and  popularization  of  Dzong- 
kha,  the  primary  national  language,  and  even  sponsored  such 
programs  as  the  preservation  of  folksongs  used  in  new  year  and 
marriage  celebrations,  house  blessings,  and  archery  contests. 

Other  cultural  preservation  efforts,  especially  those  aimed  at 
traditional  Bhutanese  arts  and  crafts  that  had  long  been  under  royal 


324 


Bhutan 


family  patronage,  were  embodied  in  the  Sixth  Development  Plan. 
Bhutan  participated  in  the  Olympic  Games  and  in  other  interna- 
tional games,  and  imported  high-tech  bows  for  use  in  national 
archery  tournaments,  although  for  a  time  only  the  simple  tradi- 
tional bow  was  permitted  in  contests  within  Bhutan.  In  1989  Nepali 
ceased  to  be  a  language  of  instruction  in  schools,  and  Dzongkha 
was  mandated  to  be  taught  in  all  schools.  In  1989  the  government 
also  moved  to  implement  the  Citizenship  Act  of  1985,  which  provid- 
ed that  only  those  Nepalese  immigrants  who  could  show  they  had 
resided  in  Bhutan  for  fifteen  or  twenty  years  (depending  on  oc- 
cupational status),  and  met  other  criteria,  might  be  considered  for 
grants  of  citizenship  by  naturalization.  An  earlier  law,  passed  in 
1958,  had  for  the  first  time  granted  Bhutanese  citizenship  to  Nepa- 
lese landed  settlers  who  had  been  in  Bhutan  for  at  least  ten  years. 
To  ameliorate  some  of  the  differences  between  the  ethnic  commu- 
nities, interethnic  marriages  among  citizens,  once  forbidden,  were 
allowed  as  a  means  of  integrating  the  Nepalese. 

Bhutan's  concern  heightened  in  the  late  1980s  when  Nepalese 
liberation  movements  emerged  in  India.  In  1988  some  ethnic  Nepa- 
lese in  Bhutan  again  began  protesting  the  alleged  discrimination 
against  them.  They  demanded  exemption  from  the  government 
decrees  aimed  at  enhancing  Bhutanese  national  identity  by  strength- 
ening aspects  of  traditional  culture  (under  the  rubric  of  driglam  nam- 
zha).  It  was  likely  that  they  were  inspired  by  prodemocracy  activities 
in  their  homeland  as  well  as  by  democratic,  Marxist,  and  Indian 
social  ideas  picked  up  during  their  migration  through  or  educa- 
tion in  India  (see  Political  Parties,  ch.  4). 

The  reaction  to  the  royal  decrees  in  Nepalese  majority  commu- 
nities surfaced  as  ethnic  strife  directed  against  non-Nepalese-origin 
people.  Reactions  also  took  form  as  protest  movements  in  Nepal 
and  India  among  Nepalese  who  had  fled  Bhutan.  The  Druk  Gyal- 
po  was  accused  of  "cultural  suppression,"  and  his  government  was 
charged  by  antigovernment  leaders  with  human  rights  violations, 
including  the  torture  of  prisoners;  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention; 
denial  of  due  process;  and  restrictions  of  freedoms  of  speech  and 
press,  peaceful  organization  and  assembly,  and  workers'  rights. 

Antigovernment  protest  marches  involved  more  than  20,000  par- 
ticipants, including  some  from  a  movement  that  had  succeeded  in 
coercing  India  into  accepting  local  autonomy  for  ethnic  Nepalese 
in  West  Bengal,  who  crossed  the  border  from  West  Bengal  and 
Assam  into  six  Bhutan  districts.  In  February  1990,  antigovernment 
activists  detonated  a  remote-control  bomb  on  a  bridge  hear  Phunt- 
sholing  and  set  fire  to  a  seven-vehicle  convoy.  In  September  1990, 
clashes  occurred  with  the  Royal  Bhutan  Army,  which  was  ordered 


325 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

not  to  fire  on  protesters.  The  men  and  women  marchers  were  or- 
ganized by  S.K.  Neupane  and  other  members  of  the  illegal  Bhu- 
tan People's  Party,  which  reportedly  urged  the  marchers  to  demand 
democracy  and  human  rights  for  all  Bhutanese  citizens.  Some  vil- 
lagers willingly  joined  the  protests;  others  did  so  under  duress.  The 
government  branded  the  party,  reportedly  established  by  anti- 
monarchists  and  backed  by  the  Nepali  Congress  Party  and  the 
Marxist-Leninist  faction  of  the  Communist  Party  of  Nepal,  as  a 
terrorist  organization.  The  party  allegedly  led  its  members — said 
to  be  armed  with  rifles,  muzzle-loading  guns,  knives,  and  home- 
made grenades — in  raids  on  villages  in  southern  Bhutan,  disrob- 
ing people  wearing  traditional  Bhutanese  garb;  extorting  money; 
and  robbing,  kidnapping,  and  killing  people.  Reportedly,  there  were 
hundreds  of  casualties,  although  the  government  admitted  to  only 
two  deaths  among  security  forces.  Other  sources  indicated  that  more 
than  300  persons  were  killed,  500  wounded,  and  2,000  arrested 
in  clashes  with  security  forces.  Along  with  the  above-mentioned 
violence,  vehicle  hijackings,  kidnappings,  extortions,  ambushes, 
and  bombings  took  place,  schools  were  closed  (some  were  de- 
stroyed), and  post  offices,  police,  health,  forest,  customs,  and 
agricultural  posts  were  destroyed.  For  their  part,  security  forces 
were  charged  by  the  Bhutan  People's  Party,  in  protests  made  to 
Amnesty  International  and  the  International  Human  Rights  Com- 
mission, with  murder  and  rape  and  carrying  out  a  "reign  of  ter- 
ror." In  support  of  the  expatriate  Nepalese,  the  general  secretary 
of  the  Nepali  Congress  Party,  the  ruling  party  in  Nepal,  called  on 
the  Druk  Gyalpo  to  establish  a  multiparty  democracy. 

The  Bhutanese  government  admitted  only  to  the  arrest  of  forty- 
two  people  involved  in  "anti-national"  activities  in  late  1989,  plus 
three  additional  individuals  who  had  been  extradited  from  Nepal. 
All  but  six  were  reportedly  later  released;  those  remaining  in  jail 
were  charged  with  treason.  By  September  1990,  more  than  300 
additional  prisoners  held  in  the  south  were  released  following  the 
Druk  Gyalpo 's  tour  of  southern  districts. 

In  the  face  of  government  resistance  to  demands  that  would  in- 
stitutionalize separate  identities  within  the  nation,  protesters  in  the 
south  insisted  that  the  Bhutan  People's  Party  flag  be  flown  in  front 
of  administrative  headquarters  and  that  party  members  be  allowed 
to  carry  the  kukri,  a  traditional  Nepalese  curved  knife,  at  all  times. 
They  also  called  for  the  right  not  to  wear  the  Bhutanese  national 
dress  and  insisted  that  schools  and  government  offices  stay  closed 
until  their  demands  were  met.  The  unmet  demands  were  accom- 
panied by  additional  violence  and  deaths  in  October  1990.  At  the 
same  time,  India  pledged  "all  possible  assistance  that  the  royal 


326 


Bhutan 


government  might  seek  in  dealing  with  this  problem"  and  assured 
that  it  would  protect  the  frontier  against  groups  seeking  illegal  en- 
try to  Bhutan. 

By  early  1991,  the  press  in  Nepal  was  referring  to  insurgents 
in  southern  Bhutan  as  " freedom  fighters."  The  Bhutan  People's 
Party  claimed  that  more  than  4,000  advocates  of  democracy  had 
been  arrested  by  the  Royal  Bhutan  Army.  Charges  were  made  that 
some  of  those  arrested  had  been  murdered  outside  Bhutanese  police 
stations  and  that  some  4,200  persons  had  been  deported. 

Supporting  the  antigovernment  activities  were  expatriate  Nepa- 
lese  political  groups  and  supporters  in  Nepal  and  India.  Between 
2,000  and  12,000  Nepalese  were  reported  to  have  fled  Bhutan  in 
the  late  1980s,  and  according  to  a  1991  report,  even  high-level 
Bhutanese  government  officials  of  Nepalese  origin  had  resigned 
their  positions  and  moved  to  Nepal.  Some  5  million  Nepalese  were 
living  in  settlements  in  India  along  the  Bhutan  border  in  1990. 
Nepalese  were  not  necessarily  welcome  in  India,  where  ethnic  strife 
conspired  to  push  them  back  through  the  largely  unguarded 
Bhutanese  frontier.  The  Bhutan  People's  Party  operated  among 
the  large  Nepalese  community  in  northern  India.  A  second  group, 
the  Bhutan  People's  Forum  for  Human  Rights  (a  counterpart  of 
the  Nepal  People's  Forum  for  Human  Rights),  was  established  in 
Nepal  by  a  former  member  of  Bhutan's  National  Assembly, 
Teknath  Rizal.  In  November  1989,  Rizal  was  allegedly  abducted 
in  eastern  Nepal  by  Bhutanese  police  and  returned  to  Thimphu, 
where  he  was  imprisoned  on  charges  of  conspiracy  and  treason. 
The  Bhutan  Students  Union  and  the  Bhutan  Aid  Group- Nepal  also 
were  involved  in  political  activism. 

The  government  explained  its  cultural  identity  programs  as  a 
defense  against  the  first  political  problems  since  the  Wangchuck 
Dynasty  was  established  in  1907  and  the  greatest  threat  to  the  na- 
tion's survival  since  the  seventeenth  century.  Its  major  concern  was 
to  avoid  a  repeat  of  events  that  had  occurred  in  1975  when  the 
monarchy  in  Sikkim  was  ousted  by  a  Nepalese  majority  in  a  plebi- 
scite and  Sikkim  was  absorbed  into  India.  In  an  effort  to  resolve 
the  interethnic  strife,  the  Druk  Gyalpo  made  frequent  visits  to  the 
troubled  southern  districts,  and  he  ordered  the  release  of  hundreds 
of  arrested  "antinationals."  He  also  expressed  the  fear  that  the 
large  influx  of  Nepalese  might  lead  to  their  demand  for  a  separate 
state  in  the  next  ten  to  twenty  years,  in  much  the  same  way  as  hap- 
pened in  the  once-independent  monarchy  of  Sikkim  in  the  1970s. 
To  deter  and  regulate  Nepalese  migration  into  Bhutan  from  India, 
the  Druk  Gyalpo  ordered  more  regular  censuses,  improved  border 
checks,  and  better  government  administration  in  the  southern 


327 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

districts.  The  more  immediate  action  of  forming  citizens'  militias 
took  place  in  October  1990  as  a  backlash  to  the  demonstrations. 
Internal  travel  regulations  were  made  more  strict  with  the  issue 
of  new  multipurpose  identification  cards  by  the  Ministry  of  Home 
Affairs  in  January  1990. 

By  the  end  of  1990,  the  government  admitted  the  serious  effects 
of  the  antigovernment  violence.  It  was  announced  that  foreign- 
exchange  earnings  had  dropped  and  that  the  GDP  had  decreased 
significantly  because  of  terrorist  activities. 

Ethnic  problems  were  not  Bhutan's  only  political  concern  in  the 
early  1990s.  Rumors  persisted  that  the  exiled  family  of  Yangki, 
the  late  Druk  Gyalpo's  mistress,  including  an  illegitimate  pretender 
to  the  throne,  were  garnering  support  among  conservative  forces 
in  Bhutan  to  return  to  a  position  of  authority. 

The  Media 

In  1986  a  weekly  government  news  bulletin,  Kuensel,  was  refor- 
matted under  the  same  title  and  also  published  weekly  as  Bhutan's 
only  newspaper.  Published  by  the  Ministry  of  Communications' 
Department  of  Information,  Kuensel  had  a  total  circulation  in  1988 
of  12,500  and  was  published  in  Dzongkha,  Nepali,  and  English. 
Indian  and  other  foreign  newspapers  also  were  available.  Bhutan's 
low  literacy  rate,  however,  means  that  the  majority  of  the  popula- 
tion is  not  affected  by  the  print  media.  Oral  tradition  is  very  strong, 
however,  and  radio  broadcasts  are  widely  listened  to. 

Bhutan  Broadcasting  Service,  established  in  1973  and  given  its 
current  name  in  1986,  operated  under  the  auspices  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  Information;  it  offered  thirty  hours  a  week  of  shortwave 
radio  programming  in  Dzongkha,  Sharchopkha,  Nepali,  and  En- 
glish. There  was  daily  FM  programming  in  Thimphu  and  short- 
wave reception  throughout  the  rest  of  the  nation  in  the  early  1990s. 
In  1991  there  were  thirty-nine  public  radio  stations  for  internal  com- 
munications. There  were  also  two  stations  used  exclusively  for  com- 
munications with  Bhutan's  embassies  in  New  Delhi  and  Dhaka  and 
thirteen  stations  used  by  hydrologists  and  meteorologists.  There 
were  no  television  stations  in  Bhutan  in  the  early  1990s,  and  a  1989 
royal  decree  ended  the  viewing  of  foreign  television  by  mandating 
the  dismantling  of  antennas.  The  government  wanted  to  prevent 
Indian  and  Bangladeshi  broadcasts  from  reaching  Bhutan's  citizens. 

Foreign  Relations 

Historically,  Bhutan's  foreign  policies  were  greatly  influenced 
by  Tibet.  Bhutan  acknowledged  Tibet's  influence  over  it  until  1860 
and  continued  to  pay  a  nominal  tribute  to  Tibet  until  the  mid- 1940s, 


328 


Bhutan 


although  not  necessarily  on  a  friendly  basis.  Despite  religious  and 
cultural  affinities,  most  of  Bhutan's  elite  were  refugees  who  had 
fled  Tibet  for  religious  reasons  over  the  centuries.  From  1865  to 
1947,  Britain  guided  Bhutan's  foreign  affairs.  Thereafter  Bhutan's 
foreign  relations  until  the  early  1970s  were  under  the  guidance  of 
India,  with  which  Bhutan  had  had  official  diplomatic  relations  from 
1949.  During  the  1970s  and  1980s,  however,  Bhutan  became  a 
member  of  the  UN  and  its  affiliated  agencies;  established  formal 
diplomatic  relations  with  fifteen  other  nations,  primarily  in  South 
Asia  and  Scandinavia;  actively  participated  in  the  South  Asian  As- 
sociation for  Regional  Cooperation  (SAARC — see  Glossary)  and 
the  Nonaligned  Movement;  spoke  out  against,  among  other  sub- 
jects, nuclear  proliferation  and  terrorism;  and  had  a  peripatetic 
head  of  state  who  traveled  abroad  widely  (see  table  31 ,  Appendix). 
By  the  early  1990s,  Bhutan's  foreign  policies  were  effectively  au- 
tonomous. 

A  shortage  of  diplomatic  officials  limited  Thimphu's  missions 
in  New  York  and  Geneva  (established  in  1985)  and  meant  that  the 
nation  could  only  staff  embassies  in  New  Delhi,  Dhaka,  and 
Kuwait.  Bhutan  had  only  one  employee,  a  computer  programmer, 
at  the  SAARC  headquarters  in  Kathmandu  in  late  1990.  Only  India 
and  Bangladesh  had  representatives  in  Thimphu  in  1991;  other 
nations  generally  gave  dual  accreditation  to  their  ambassadors  in 
New  Delhi  to  enable  them  to  represent  their  countries'  interests 
in  Thimphu.  Similarly,  because  of  the  shortage  of  diplomatic  per- 
sonnel, the  head  of  the  Bhutanese  UN  mission  in  Geneva,  for  ex- 
ample, also  served  as  ambassador  to  Austria,  Denmark,  Finland, 
the  Netherlands,  Norway,  Sweden,  the  European  Economic  Com- 
munity (EEC),  and  several  UN  affiliates.  The  ambassador  to 
Kuwait  is  accredited  to  Switzerland  because  of  Swiss  rules  that  dis- 
allow the  UN  representative  in  Geneva  to  also  be  accredited  to  Swit- 
zerland. Honorary  consuls  represented  Bhutan  in  Singapore,  Hong 
Kong,  Macao,  Osaka,  and  Seoul,  and  the  Republic  of  Korea  (South 
Korea)  had  an  honorary  consul  in  Thimphu. 

Bhutan  had  no  formal  diplomatic  relations  with  the  United  States 
as  of  1991 .  It  was  one  of  only  seven  sovereign  nations  in  the  world 
with  which  the  United  States  did  not  maintain  formal  representa- 
tion. Informal  contact  was  maintained,  however,  between  the  em- 
bassies of  Bhutan  and  the  United  States  in  New  Delhi,  and  Bhutan's 
permanent  mission  at  the  United  Nations  in  New  York  had  con- 
sular jurisdiction  in  the  United  States.  It  has  been  speculated  that 
Bhutan,  in  light  of  India's  close  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union, 
had  elected  to  keep  equidistant  from  both  superpowers.  Neverthe- 
less, during  a  visit  with  a  United  States  senator  in  1985,  the  Druk 


329 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Gyalpo  personally  expressed  strong  support  for  the  United  States 
as  the  principal  bulwark  against  the  Soviet  Union  in  South  Asia. 
The  United  States  ambassador  to  New  Delhi  was  among  numer- 
ous emissaries  of  nations  without  diplomatic  ties  to  pay  courtesy 
calls  in  Thimphu  in  the  1980s.  Contacts  with  the  Soviet  Union  and 
other  communist  countries  were  nil. 

India 

Bhutan  is  bounded  on  three  sides  by  India.  From  east  to  west, 
the  Indian  states  of  Sikkim,  West  Bengal,  Assam,  and  Arunachal 
Pradesh  (formerly  the  North-East  Frontier  Agency)  border  Bhu- 
tan. In  view  of  the  long-standing  political  disputes  and  border  con- 
frontations between  India  and  China,  Bhutan  has  long  been  part 
of  India's  strategic  defense  plan  (see  Strategic  Location,  this  ch.). 
In  the  view  of  some  Indian  strategists,  Bhutan  was  a  weak  link  in 
India's  defense  against  China. 

The  key  document  guiding  relations  with  India  is  the  Treaty  of 
Friendship  Between  the  Government  of  India  and  the  Government 
of  Bhutan  of  1949.  The  ten-article  treaty,  in  force  in  perpetuity, 
calls  for  peace  between  the  two  countries  and  assures  Indian  non- 
interference in  Bhutan's  internal  affairs  in  return  for  Bhutan's 
agreeing  "to  be  guided  by  the  advice  of  the  Government  of  India 
in  regard  to  its  external  relations"  (Article  2).  The  treaty  provides 
for  compensation  by  India  at  a  higher  rate  than  provided  in  the 
1865  and  1910  British  treaties,  and  it  returned  Bhutan's  Dewan- 
giri  territory  seized  by  Britain  in  the  Duar  War.  It  also  guarantees 
free  trade  between  the  countries  and  duty-free  transit  across  India 
of  Bhutan's  imports.  Furthermore,  the  treaty  assures  the  rights  of 
citizens  of  each  country  and  the  extradition  of  criminals  seeking 
refuge  in  either  country. 

Events  in  Tibet  have  had  causal  effects  on  Bhutan-Indian  re- 
lations. When  the  Chinese  communists  took  over  Tibet  in  1951, 
Bhutan  braced  itself  against  a  renewed  external  threat  with  a  mod- 
ernization program  and  a  new  defense  posture.  In  his  first  visit 
to  Bhutan  in  1958,  Indian  prime  minister  J awaharlal  Nehru  reiter- 
ated India's  wish  that  Bhutan  remain  an  independent  country,  "tak- 
ing the  path  of  progress  according  to  your  will."  Following 
precedent,  Bhutan  sided  with  India  when  the  Chinese  army  oc- 
cupied Tibet  in  1959  and  a  border  dispute  emerged  between  China 
and  India.  Nehru  declared  in  the  Indian  parliament  in  November 
1959  that  "any  aggression  against  Bhutan  .  .  .  would  be  regarded 
as  an  aggression  against  India."  A  de  facto  alliance  developed  be- 
tween Bhutan  and  India  by  1960,  and  Indian  aid  increasingly  bol- 
stered Bhutan's  strategic  infrastructure  development.  In  times  of 


330 


Bhutan 


crisis  between  India  and  China  or  between  Bhutan  and  China,  India 
was  quick  to  assure  Bhutan  of  military  assistance.  Concerns  were 
raised  by  Bhutan,  however,  during  the  1971  Indo-Pakistani  War 
when  there  were  doubts  about  India's  ability  to  protect  Bhutan 
against  China  (which  sided  with  Pakistan)  while  fighting  a  two- 
front  war. 

In  1960  the  Druk  Gyalpo  had  said  that  Bhutan  was  not  100  per- 
cent independent  because  of  the  1949  treaty,  and  until  Bhutan 
emerged  into  the  world  of  international  diplomacy  by  joining  the 
UN  in  1971,  Article  2  of  the  treaty  seemed  intact.  Admission  to 
the  UN,  however,  changed  Bhutan's  perspective  on  the  world  be- 
yond India  and  Thimphu's  traditional  dependence  on  New  Del- 
hi. Two  years  later,  Bhutan  and  Bangladesh  exchanged  diplomatic 
recognition,  hinting  further  at  Thimphu's  independent  attitude. 
A  new  interpretation  of  the  relationship  emerged  in  1974  when  Bhu- 
tan's minister  of  foreign  affairs  said  that  Bhutan's  following  In- 
dia's advice  and  guidance  on  foreign  policy  matters  was  optional. 
Bhutan  had  raised  its  representation  in  India  to  the  ambassadorial 
level  in  1971  and  in  1978  changed  the  name  of  its  diplomatic  office 
in  New  Delhi  from  the  Royal  Bhutan  Mission  to  the  Royal  Bhu- 
tan Embassy  to  further  reflect  its  sovereign  status.  A  new  trade 
agreement  between  Bhutan  and  India  in  1972  exempted  from  ex- 
port duties  goods  from  Bhutan  to  third  countries. 

The  Druk  Gyalpo 's  statement  in  1979  that  the  1949  treaty  needed 
to  be  i 'updated"  was  still  another  move  asserting  independence. 
Members  of  the  National  Assembly  speaking  just  before  the  Druk 
Gyalpo 's  "update"  announcement  made  the  interpretation  that 
Article  2  only  required  Bhutan  to  seek  India's  advice  and  guidance 
on  matters  of  external  affairs.  Bhutan  exerted  its  independent  stance 
at  the  Nonaligned  Movement  summit  conference  in  Havana,  also 
in  1979,  by  voting  with  China  and  some  Southeast  Asian  coun- 
tries rather  than  with  India  on  the  issue  of  allowing  Cambodia's 
Khmer  Rouge  to  be  seated  at  the  conference.  Bhutan's  votes  in 
the  UN  on  such  issues  as  the  status  of  landlocked  nations  also  did 
not  follow  India's  leads. 

Despite  a  history  of  good  relations  between  Bhutan  and  India, 
bilateral  border  issues  long  went  unresolved.  Indo-Bhutanese  bor- 
ders had  been  delineated  in  the  Treaty  of  Peace  of  1865  between 
Bhutan  and  Britain,  but  it  was  not  until  the  period  between  1973 
and  1984  that  a  detailed  delineation  and  demarcation  was  made. 
Border  demarcation  talks  with  India  generally  resolved  disagree- 
ments except  for  several  small  sectors,  including  the  middle  zone 
between  Sarbhang  and  Geylegphug  and  the  eastern  frontier  with 
Arunachal  Pradesh. 


331 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 
China 

The  other  nation  that  borders  Bhutan  is  China,  with  which  Bhu- 
tan had  no  diplomatic  relations  as  of  mid-1991.  Bhutan  and  Chi- 
na have  long  had  differences  with  respect  to  the  delineation  of  their 
common  border,  which  follows  natural  features — the  watershed  of 
the  Chumbi  Valley  in  the  northwest  and  the  crest  of  the  Great 
Himalayan  Range  of  mountains  in  the  north.  The  part  of  China 
that  borders  Bhutan — Tibet,  or  the  Xizang  Autonomous  Region — 
has  important  historical,  cultural,  and  religious  ties  to  Bhutan  (see 
Origins  and  Early  Settiement,  A.D.  600-1600,  this  ch.).  China  had 
been  heavily  involved  in  Tibetan  affairs  since  the  1720s,  and  it  was 
through  this  involvement  that  Bhutan  and  China  had  their  first 
direct  relations.  Bhutanese  delegations  to  the  Dalai  Lama  came 
into  contact  with  the  Chinese  representatives  in  Lhasa,  but  there 
never  was  a  tributary  relationship  with  Beijing.  Relations  with  Tibet 
itself,  never  particularly  good,  were  strained  considerably  when 
Bhutan  sided  with  Britain  in  the  early  1900s.  Trying  to  secure  its 
southwestern  flank  against  increasing  foreign  aggression,  China 
claimed  a  vague  suzerainty  over  Bhutan  in  the  period  just  before 
the  Chinese  Revolution  of  1911.  The  new  Republic  of  China  let 
the  claim  lapse,  however,  and  it  never  again  was  raised  publicly. 

Tension  in  Bhutan-China  relations  increased  with  the  Chinese 
occupation  of  Tibet  in  1951  and  again  rose  with  the  anti-Chinese 
revolts  in  eastern  and  central  Tibet  between  1954  and  1958.  The 
massive  Tibetan  uprisings  in  1959  and  the  flight  to  India  of  the 
Dalai  Lama,  as  well  as  the  heightened  presence  of  Chinese  forces 
on  the  ill-defined  frontier,  alerted  Bhutan  to  the  potential  threat 
it  faced,  and  its  representative  in  Tibet  was  withdrawn.  Included 
in  the  territory  occupied  by  the  Chinese  People's  Liberation  Army 
were  the  eight  western  Tibetan  enclaves  administered  by  Bhutan 
since  the  seventeenth  century.  New  Delhi  intervened  with  Beijing 
on  behalf  of  Thimphu  regarding  the  enclaves,  but  the  Chinese  re- 
fused to  discuss  what  they  considered  a  matter  between  China  and 
Bhutan.  Another  problem  with  China  emerged  at  this  time  as  the 
result  of  the  flight  to  Bhutan  of  some  6,000  Tibetan  refugees.  The 
specter  of  renewed  Chinese  claims  to  Bhutan,  Sikkim,  and  Nepal 
was  raised  after  China  published  a  map  in  1961  that  showed  alter- 
ations of  traditional  Sino-Bhutanese  and  other  Himalayan  bor- 
ders in  Beijing's  favor.  Bhutan  responded  with  an  embargo  on 
cross-border  trade  and  closer  links  with  India. 

During  this  period,  Thimphu  continued  to  withstand  Beijing's 
mixture  of  threats  and  offers  of  conciliation  in  the  form  of  economic 
aid  and  assurance  of  independence.  Tension  was  renewed  during 


332 


Bhutan 


the  1962  Sino-Indian  border  war  when  the  Chinese  army  outflanked 
Indian  troops,  who,  with  permission  of  Bhutanese  authorities, 
retreated  through  southeastern  Bhutan.  More  fearful  of  China  than 
confident  of  India's  ability  to  defend  it,  Bhutan  formally  maintained 
a  policy  of  neutrality  while  quietly  expanding  its  relations  with  In- 
dia. Cross-border  incursions  by  Chinese  soldiers  and  Tibetan  herd- 
ers occurred  in  1966,  but  tensions  generally  lessened  thereafter  and 
during  the  1970s.  In  1979  a  larger  than  usual  annual  intrusion  by 
Tibetan  herders  into  Bhutan  brought  protests  to  Beijing  from  both 
Thimphu  and  New  Delhi.  China,  again  seeking  a  direct  approach 
with  Bhutan,  ignored  the  Indian  protest  but  responded  to  the  one 
from  Bhutan.  As  part  of  its  policy  of  asserting  its  independence 
from  India,  Bhutan  was  open  to  direct  talks,  whereas  India  con- 
tinued to  see  the  Sino-Bhutan  boundary  issue  as  intimately  relat- 
ed to  the  Sino-Indian  border  dispute.  A  series  of  border  talks  has 
been  held  annually  since  1984  between  the  ministers  of  foreign  of 
affairs  of  Bhutan  and  China,  leading  to  relations  that  have  been 
characterized  by  the  two  sides  as  "very  good." 

Other  Countries 

Bhutan,  the  second  nation  to  do  so,  recognized  the  newly  in- 
dependent Bangladesh  in  1971,  and  diplomatic  relations  were  es- 
tablished in  1973.  Bangladesh  was  the  only  country  other  than  India 
with  which  Bhutan  had  diplomatic  relations  at  the  time  and,  in 
the  view  of  some  foreign  observers,  perhaps  the  only  country  with 
which  India  would  have  allowed  Bhutan  to  develop  bilateral  rela- 
tions. For  Bhutan,  however,  the  step  was  an  important  symbolic 
move  that  provided  a  new  trade  outlet  as  well  as  another  access 
to  the  sea.  Water  and  flood  control,  a  major  multilateral  issue  in- 
volving the  great  Himalayan  watersheds  that  run  through  China, 
Bhutan,  and  India  into  flood-prone  Bangladesh  have  been  peren- 
nial concerns  between  Thimphu  and  Dhaka. 

Bhutan,  with  its  sizeable  Nepalese  minority,  has  been  particu- 
larly cautious  in  its  relations  with  Nepal  in  deference  to  Indian  sen- 
sitivities. In  1969  the  Nepal-Bhutan  Friendship  and  Cultural  Society 
was  established  in  Kathmandu  to  facilitate  good  relations,  but  for- 
mal diplomatic  ties  were  not  established  until  1983,  the  same  year 
SAARC  was  founded.  Given  the  ethnic  unrest  among  Nepalese 
in  Bhutan,  at  the  request  of  the  Nepal-Bhutan  Friendship  and  Cul- 
tural Society,  the  Bhutan-Nepal  Friendship  Association  was  formed 
in  1989  to  help  defuse  tensions. 

Participation  in  International  Organizations 

Historically,  Bhutan's  foreign  relations  had  been  limited  primarily 


333 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

to  contacts  with  Tibet,  India,  and  Britain.  A  major  step  was  taken 
in  the  1960s  as  Bhutan  began  to  join  international  organizations. 
It  first  became  a  member  of  the  Colombo  Plan  in  1962,  which  put 
the  kingdom  into  contact  with  member  states  throughout  South 
Asia  and  Southeast  Asia  for  purposes  of  fostering  cooperative  eco- 
nomic development.  Bhutan  joined  the  Universal  Postal  Union  in 
1969,  putting  it  into  contact  with  some  137  countries.  UN  mem- 
bership was  achieved  in  1971,  followed  by  the  gaining  of  seats  in 
the  UN's  specialized  and  related  agencies,  including  the  Interna- 
tional Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary)  and  the  World  Bank. 
A  founding  member  of  SAARC  in  1983,  Bhutan  had  also  estab- 
lished relations  with  the  Coordination  Bureau  of  the  Nonaligned 
Countries  (the  headquarters  of  the  Nonaligned  Movement),  the 
Group  of  77,  the  Asian  Development  Bank,  and  the  European 
Community.  By  1990,  Bhutan  belonged  to  119  international, 
regional,  and  special  interest  organizations  (see  table  32,  Appendix). 

In  1975  Bhutan  and  four  other  landlocked  Asian  countries  (Af- 
ghanistan, Laos,  Mongolia,  and  Nepal)  were  granted  special  sta- 
tus as  "least  developed  landlocked  countries"  by  the  UN  Economic 
and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific  (ESCAP)  in  coor- 
dination with  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and  De- 
velopment (UNCTAD)  and  UNDP.  Despite  these  organizations' 
intentions  to  assist  Bhutan  and  the  other  countries  in  dealing  with 
international  transit  problems,  Bhutan  declined  to  participate  in 
their  work. 

Perhaps  the  most  significant  international  participation  Bhutan 
embarked  on  in  the  1980s  was  membership  in  SAARC.  SAARC 's 
agenda  excluded  bilateral  issues  and  political  programs  from  the 
organization's  debates  and  confined  committee  and  summit  dis- 
cussions to  areas  where  member  nations  must  find  common  ground 
for  achieving  mutual  economic  benefit.  Bhutan  became  involved 
in  useful  working  group  discussions  on  agriculture  and  livestock, 
rural  development,  meteorology,  telecommunications,  science  and 
technology,  health  and  population,  transportation,  postal  cooper- 
ation, and  trade  and  industrial  cooperation. 

Heads-of-state  meetings  of  SAARC  have  taken  Jigme  Singye 
Wangchuck  abroad  on  several  occasions.  The  integration  of  Bhu- 
tan into  SAARC  activities  also  involved  the  country  with  a  varie- 
ty of  issues  of  concern  to  poor  undeveloped  nations  as  well  as 
increasing  its  participation  in  the  Nonaligned  Movement.  In  Bhu- 
tan's extensive  multilateral  diplomatic  activities  in  the  1980s,  offi- 
cials saw  their  country  emerging  as  an  "Eastern  Geneva"  providing 
a  "venue  for  peace-making  efforts  in  South  Asia." 


334 


Bhutan 


National  Security 
Strategic  Location 

Bhutan  is  a  strategic  buffer  state  wedged  between  India  and  Chi- 
na. After  centuries  of  close  ties  to  Tibet  and  less  definite  connec- 
tions to  China,  Bhutan  developed  a  southerly  political  orientation, 
first  with  British  India  and  then  with  independent  India.  British 
troops  in  or  near  Bhutan  presented  a  considerable  deterrent  to  Chi- 
na from  the  eighteenth  century  until  the  early  twentieth  century. 
Britain's  withdrawal  from  India  in  1947  and  India's  replacement 
of  Britain  as  Bhutan's  protector  coincided  with  the  communist  mili- 
tary victory  in  China  in  1949. 

Because  of  its  location  in  India's  strategic  defense  system,  Bhu- 
tan has  long  had  foreign  defense  arrangements,  first  with  Britain 
and  then  with  independent  India.  Despite  common  international 
policy  goals  of  Indian  and  Chinese  leaders,  territorial  problems  be- 
tween the  two  powers  continued  to  define  Bhutan's  buffer  status. 
The  1962  border  war  between  India  and  China  had  serious  impli- 
cations for  Bhutan  and  could  have  embroiled  it  in  the  fighting. 
Thimphu  permitted  Indian  troops  to  cross  Bhutanese  territory  and 
Chinese  airplanes  allegedly  violated  Bhutanese  air  space.  In  addi- 
tion, China  reportedly  had  six  divisions  stationed  near  the  bor- 
ders of  Bhutan,  Sikkim,  and  Nepal.  China  had  its  own  boundary 
disputes  with  Bhutan,  and  Chinese  troops  reportedly  breached  the 
Bhutanese  frontier  on  several  occasions  in  1966,  1970,  and  1979. 
In  each  case,  New  Delhi  attempted  to  represent  Thimphu's  interests 
in  protest  notes  to  Beijing,  all  of  which  were  rejected. 

As  the  Chinese  threat  grew,  India  became  increasingly  involved 
in  the  buildup  of  Bhutan's  indigenous  defensive  capability,  spe- 
cifically in  the  training  and  equipping  of  the  Royal  Bhutan  Army 
(see  Armed  Forces,  this  ch.).  The  headquarters  of  the  Indian  Mili- 
tary Training  Team  (IMTRAT)  in  Bhutan  was  located  in  Ha  Dis- 
trict, which  is  adjacent  to  Tibet's  Chumbi  Valley,  where  China 
routinely  kept  large  concentrations  of  troops,  at  the  junction  of  the 
Bhutanese,  Indian,  and  Chinese  borders. 

The  1949  Indo-Bhutanese  treaty  makes  no  reference  to  India's 
defense  of  Bhutan  except  what  might  be  inferred  from  Article  2 
of  the  treaty.  Prime  Minister  Nehru,  however,  declared  in  1958 
that  acts  of  aggression  against  Bhutan  would  be  taken  as  acts  of 
aggression  against  India  itself.  Also,  by  the  terms  of  the  1949  treaty, 
Bhutan  has  the  right  to  import  arms,  munitions,  and  other  mili- 
tary materiel  from  or  through  India  as  long  as  the  Indian  govern- 
ment is  satisfied  that  such  imports  do  not  threaten  India.  Bhutan, 
on  the  other  hand,  agreed  not  to  export  or  allow  private  citizens 


335 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

to  export  any  arms,  ammunition,  or  military  equipment.  The  In- 
dian Ministry  of  Defence  also  made  provisions  for  the  rapid  deploy- 
ment of  helicopter-borne  troops  to  Bhutan  in  the  event  of  a  Chinese 
invasion  and  made  related  plans  for  air  force  operations.  Sugges- 
tions from  within  the  Bhutanese  government  to  allow  Indian  troops 
to  be  stationed  in  Bhutan  were  rejected.  An  important  defensive 
consideration  has  been  the  construction  of  extensive  roads  with 
major  assistance  from  the  Indian  government's  paramilitary  Border 
Roads  Organization. 

Armed  Forces 

The  Royal  Bhutan  Army  was  organized  as  a  regular  military 
force  in  the  1950s  with  the  encouragement  of  India  and  in  response 
to  China's  takeover  of  Tibet.  Following  the  establishment  of  a  na- 
tional militia  in  1958,  the  government  announced  a  new  conscrip- 
tion system  the  same  year  and  plans  for  a  standing  army  of  2,500 
troops  with  modern  equipment.  Military  training  was  given  to  all 
able-bodied  men,  and  by  1963  the  standing  army  was  well  estab- 
lished. A  reorganization  in  1968  led  several  years  later  to  an  in- 
crease in  the  army  to  4,850  troops  and  a  campaign  aimed  at 
recruiting  600  additional  troops  per  year.  In  1990  the  Royal  Bhu- 
tan Army  was  composed  of  6,000  men  and  was  backed  by  a  grow- 
ing militia.  Two  women  were  recruited  for  the  army's  airport 
security  unit  in  1989,  but  no  other  women  soldiers  have  been  noted. 

The  army's  primary  mission  was  border  defense,  but  it  also  has 
assisted  the  Royal  Bhutan  Police  in  performing  internal  security 
duties  (see  Police  Force,  this  ch.).  The  army  also  provided  securi- 
ty at  the  Paro  airport  and  regulated  the  sale,  ownership,  and  licens- 
ing of  civilian-owned  firearms.  For  ceremonial  occasions,  the  army 
had  a  band,  some  members  of  which  were  trained  in  India. 

The  army's  supreme  commander  in  1991  was  the  Druk  Gyal- 
po;  day-to-day  operations  were  under  the  charge  of  the  chief  oper- 
ations officer.  The  chief  operations  officer  held  the  rank  of  colonel 
until  1981,  when  the  position  was  upgraded  to  major  general  (see 
table  33,  Appendix).  In  1991  the  chief  operations  officer  was  Major 
General  Lam  Dorji.  Organizationally,  the  army  headquarters 
ranked  at  the  ministry  level  and  was  immediately  subordinate  to 
the  Council  of  Ministers. 

As  of  1978,  the  Royal  Bhutan  Army  consisted  of  its  headquar- 
ters in  Thimphu,  a  training  center  at  Tenchholing,  four  operational 
wings,  and  an  airport  security  unit  at  Paro.  Wing  1  had  its  head- 
quarters in  Changjukha  (Geylegphug),  Wing  2  at  Damthang,  Wing 
3  at  Goinichawa,  and  Wing  4  at  Yonphula.  Organized  into  com- 
panies, platoons,  and  sections,  the  troops  were  assigned  to  the 


336 


Royal  Bhutan  Army  camp  at  Tashi  Makhang,  Punakha  District 
Courtesy  Bhutan  Travel,  Inc.,  New  York  (Marie  Brown) 

wings  deployed  primarily  in  border  areas.  The  army  also  operated 
hospitals  in  Lungtenphug,  Wangdiphodrang,  and  Yonphula. 

Most  if  not  all  of  the  army's  weapons  in  the  1980s  were  manufac- 
tured in  India.  Rifles,  bayonets,  machine  guns,  and  81mm  mor- 
tars have  been  noted  in  the  army's  weapons  inventory,  but  some 
were  believed  to  be  obsolescent.  Figures  on  defense  expenditures 
were  not  publicly  available  and,  in  budgetary  information  pub- 
lished by  the  Planning  Commission,  were  found  only  in  general 
government  costs. 

The  army  has  traditionally  been  a  small,  lightly  armed  conscript 
force.  The  majority  of  its  officers  and  noncommissioned  officers 
were  trained  by  IMTRAT,  which  was  commanded  by  an  Indian 
Army  brigadier  at  the  Wangchuck  Lo  Dzong  Military  Training 
School,  established  in  1961  in  Ha  District.  Recruits  were  trained 
at  the  Army  Training  Centre  established  in  1957  at  Tenchholing 
in  Wangdiphodrang  District.  IMTRAT  also  offered  a  one-to-two- 
month  precourse  for  officers  and  enlisted  personnel  selected  for 
advanced  training  in  India.  Royal  Bhutan  Army  cadets  were  sent 
to  the  Indian  National  Defence  Academy  at  Pune,  followed  by  train- 
ing at  the  Indian  Military  Academy  at  Dehra  Dun,  from  which 
they  were  commissioned  as  second  lieutenants.  It  was  reported 
in  1990  that  members  of  the  Royal  Body  Guards  (an  elite  VIP 


337 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

protection  unit  commanded  by  a  lieutenant  colonel)  had  completed 
counterinsurgency  and  jungle  warfare  training  in  the  Mizo  Hills 
in  India,  the  Indian  College  of  Combat,  and  the  Indian  Military 
Academy. 

The  army  conducted  an  annual  recruitment  drive.  Families  with 
two  or  more  sons  were  expected  to  have  one  son  serve  in  the  army. 
Individuals  between  sixteen  and  twenty-four  years  of  age,  having 
a  minimum  height  of  150  centimeters  and  minimum  weight  of  fifty- 
two  kilograms,  were  eligible  for  recruitment.  Selected  from  among 
volunteers  and  conscripts,  recruits  were  given  ten  to  twelve  months 
of  basic  training  that  included  weapons  proficiency,  "field  craft," 
signals,  map  reading,  tae  kwon  do,  and  physical  fitness.  Soldiers 
also  were  expected  to  achieve  proficiency  in  Dzongkha,  Nepali, 
and  English.  Annual  salaries  started  at  Nu300  plus  food,  cloth- 
ing, and  accommodations. 

Since  the  1970s,  one  of  the  army's  goals  has  been  self-sufficiency. 
The  Army  Welfare  Committee  was  established  in  1978  to  oversee 
the  Army  Welfare  Project,  which  provided  housing,  food,  and  in- 
come for  the  Royal  Bhutan  Army  and  the  Royal  Body  Guards. 
It  was  charged  with  taking  care  of  individual  army  personnel 
problems  and  providing  pensions  to  retirees.  Although  some  labor 
for  the  Army  Welfare  Project  was  provided  by  army  personnel, 
the  project  was  administered  by  civil  service  employees  and  con- 
tractors. By  1979  a  pilot  project,  the  Lapchekha  Agriculture  Farm 
in  Wangdiphodrang  District,  had  been  established  to  provide  food 
for  army  units  in  western  Bhutan.  The  farm  comprised  525  hect- 
ares with  a  potential  for  an  additional  113  hectares  of  arable  land. 
Army  personnel  constructed  a  twenty-one-kilometer-long  canal  to 
irrigate  the  farm  and  worked  there  for  three  months  each  year. 
Revenues  from  the  farm  and  other  welfare  projects  helped  provide 
benefits  to  retired  and  disabled  personnel  in  the  form  of  pensions 
and  loans  and,  in  the  case  of  landless  retirees,  agricultural  land 
grants.  Army  careerists  could  retire,  depending  on  their  rank,  be- 
tween the  ages  of  thirty-seven  and  forty-five  years  of  age.  Preretire- 
ment training  in  farming  was  provided  to  army  personnel.  All 
retirees  received  pensions,  and  those  disabled  during  service 
received  both  a  pension  and  free  medical  care.  In  1985  the  Army 
Welfare  Project  generated  Nu40  million  in  sales  of  farm  services 
and  products,  which  ranged  from  such  practical  civil  activities  as 
fence  electrification  to  protect  sugarcane  farms  from  wild  elephants 
in  Geylegphug  District  to  entrepreneurial  endeavors,  such  as  the 
manufacture  and  sale  of  rum  to  the  Indian  Army  and  Indian  Air 
Force. 


338 


Bhutan 


Paramilitary 

Militia 

Historically,  the  government  raised  militia  forces  during  times 
of  crisis  during  the  period  of  theocratic  rule  (1616-1907).  They  were 
commanded  by  a  dapon  (arrow  chief  in  Dzongkha).  In  modern 
times,  a  5, 000- strong  militia  was  raised  in  1958  as  part  of  the  defen- 
sive strategy  against  China.  Militia  personnel  were  trained  by  army 
officers  who  had  been  trained  at  the  Indian  Military  Academy. 
Their  primary  function  was  as  a  first  line  of  defense  along  frontier 
areas  with  China.  Following  an  Indian  inspection  tour  in  1961, 
the  government  was  advised  to  step  up  militia  recruitment.  In  1967 
the  militia  was  reorganized  on  a  national  basis,  with  compulsory 
military  training  being  given  for  three  months  each  year  for  three 
years  to  men  twenty  to  twenty-five  years  of  age.  After  the  initial 
three-year  training  phase,  militia  personnel  were  placed  on  reserve 
status. 

In  a  move  said  by  the  Druk  Gyalpo  to  reinforce  Bhutan's  secu- 
rity, new  militia  training  was  initiated  in  1989.  In  the  early  1980s, 
weapons  training  for  all  male  citizens  between  ages  sixteen  and  sixty 
was  considered,  but,  in  view  of  national  security  and  public  works 
projects  to  which  the  army  already  was  committed,  it  was  post- 
poned. In  1990  ninety-four  students  were  enlisted  in  a  program 
at  the  Tenchholing  army  camp.  Candidates  for  militia  training  in- 
cluded individuals  who  had  completed  at  least  the  tenth  grade,  new 
college  graduates,  and  members  of  the  civil  service.  Starting  in  1989, 
new  male  civil  service  entrants  were  required  to  take  a  three-week 
militia  training  course. 

In  reaction  to  the  "prodemocracy"  demonstrations  by  ethnic 
Nepalese  in  southern  Bhutan  in  September  1990,  the  government 
announced  that  more  than  1,000  citizens  had  volunteered  to  join 
militia  groups.  The  army  was  to  provide  training  for  around  500 
militia  members  to  assist  the  "badly  under  strength"  police  in  deal- 
ing with  mob  attacks.  Recruits  were  men  and  women  from  among 
civil  servants  and  urban  residents.  Militia  trainees  pledged  to  give 
their  "full  support  and  loyalty"  to  tsawa  sum  (country,  king,  and 
people)  and  a  total  commitment  to  defend  the  nation. 

Forest  Guards 

The  Forest  Guards,  a  uniformed  government  service  with 
paramilitary  capabilities,  had  been  in  existence  since  the  early  1970s. 
Under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Department  of  Forestry,  Forest  Guards 
were  trained  in  two  six-month  classes  per  year  at  the  Forestry 
School.  Recruits  learned  first  aid,  forest-fire  fighting,  marksmanship, 


339 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

physical  training,  and  traditional  Bhutanese  customs.  Small  arms 
training  was  imparted  by  the  Royal  Bhutan  Army.  Besides  guarding 
Bhutan's  important  forest  resources,  the  Forest  Guards  provided 
border- security  support  to  the  Royal  Bhutan  Police. 

Police  Force 

The  Royal  Bhutan  Police  was  established  with  personnel  reas- 
signed from  the  army  on  September  1,  1965,  a  day  thereafter 
marked  as  Police  Day  throughout  Bhutan.  Starting  with  only  a  few 
hundred  personnel  in  1965,  by  the  late  1970s  the  force  had  more 
than  1,000  constables  and  officers.  Recruits — grade  six  graduates 
and  above — were  trained  at  the  Police  Training  Centre  in  Zilnon 
Namgyeling,  Thimphu  District,  and,  after  1981,  at  a  police  train- 
ing center  in  Jigmiling,  Geylegphug  District.  The  curriculum  con- 
sisted of  weapons  training,  tae  kwon  do,  physical  training  with  and 
without  arms,  law,  simple  investigation  techniques,  "turn-out 
drill,"  check-post  duties,  traffic  control,  public  relations,  and  driglam 
namzha.  Recruits  were  also  trained  for  other  unspecified  duties  and 
to  escort  important  visitors. 

Since  the  establishment  of  the  police  force  in  1965,  Indian  police 
advisers  and  instructors  have  been  used.  Starting  in  1975,  Bhutanese 
instructors,  trained  in  India  for  one  year,  began  training  recruits 
at  the  Zilnon  Namgyeling  Police  Training  Centre.  Advanced  train- 
ing for  selected  police  officers  in  fields  such  as  criminology,  traffic 
control,  and  canine  corps  has  taken  place  in  India  and  other  coun- 
tries. In  1988,  following  specialized  training  in  India,  a  female 
second  lieutenant  established  a  fingerprint  bureau  in  Thimphu. 
Besides  having  access  to  training  at  the  Indian  Police  Academy  in 
Hyderabad,  some  students  were  also  sent  to  the  Police  Executive 
Development  Course  in  Singapore. 

Besides  performing  their  standard  police  functions,  members  of 
the  Royal  Bhutan  Police  also  served  as  border  guards  and  firefight- 
ers and  provided  first  aid.  In  1975,  in  response  to  the  increased 
number  of  traffic  accidents  resulting  from  the  development  of  roads 
and  the  increased  number  of  motor  vehicles,  the  police  established 
an  experimental  mobile  traffic  court  staff  with  Royal  Bhutan  Police 
personnel  and  a  judicial  official  to  make  on-the-spot  legal  decisions. 

Organizationally  subordinate  to  the  Royal  Bhutan  Army,  the 
Royal  Bhutan  Police  in  1991  was  under  the  command  of  Major 
General  Lam  Dorji,  who  was  also  chief  of  operations  of  the  army, 
under  the  title  inspector  general  or  commandant.  There  were  police 
headquarters  in  each  district  and  subdistrict. 


340 


Traffic  control  on  Norzin  Lam,  Thimphu's  main  street 
Courtesy  Bhutan  Travel,  Inc.,  New  York  (Marie  Brown) 

Legal  System 

Criminal  Justice 

Bhutan's  civil  and  criminal  codes  are  based  on  the  Tsa  Yig,  a 
code  established  by  the  shabdrung  in  the  seventeenth  century.  The 
Tsa  Yig  was  revised  in  1957  and  ostensibly  replaced  with  a  new 
code  in  1965.  The  1965  code,  however,  retained  most  of  the  spirit 
and  substance  of  the  seventeenth-century  code.  Family  problems, 
such  as  marriage,  divorce,  and  adoption,  usually  were  resolved 
through  recourse  to  Buddhist  or  Hindu  religious  law.  In  modern 
Bhutan,  village  heads  often  judged  minor  cases  and  district  offi- 
cials adjudicated  major  crimes. 

Trials  in  the  1980s  were  public,  and  it  was  the  practice  of  the 
accuser  and  the  accused  personally  to  put  their  cases  to  judges. 
There  were  no  lawyers  in  Bhutan's  legal  system  until  the  1980s, 
and  decisions  were  made  on  the  facts  of  each  case  as  presented  by 
the  litigants.  Judges  appointed  by  the  Druk  Gyalpo  were  respon- 
sible for  investigations,  filing  of  charges,  prosecution,  and  judg- 
ment of  defendants.  Serious  crimes  were  extremely  rare  throughout 
the  twentieth  century,  although  there  were  reports  of  increased 
criminal  activity  in  the  1980s  and  early  1990s  with  the  influx  of 


341 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

foreign  laborers,  widening  economic  disparities,  and  greater  con- 
tact with  foreign  cultures. 

Penal  Code 

Arrests  can  be  made  only  under  legal  authority.  Exile,  stated 
as  a  punishment  in  the  1953  Constitution  of  the  National  Assem- 
bly, and  its  1968  revision,  is  not  used  as  a  form  of  punishment, 
and  mutilation  was  abolished  in  1965.  Fines,  according  to  various 
reports,  ranged  from  the  equivalent  of  US$10  to  US$55,  and  jail 
sentences  from  seven  days  to  one  month  were  levied  against  citizens 
who  violated  a  compulsory  but  not  widely  enforced  1989  royal 
decree  that  they  wear  the  national  dress  at  formal  gatherings  to 
preserve  and  promote  Bhutanese  culture.  With  respect  to  interna- 
tional criminal  law,  in  1988  the  National  Assembly  ratified  a 
SAARC  convention  on  terrorism,  which  Bhutan  has  consistently 
condemned  in  international  forums.  It  provided  for  extradition  of 
terrorists. 

The  last  half  of  the  twentieth  century  was  a  momentous  period 
in  Bhutan's  long  historical  development.  The  nation  moved  from 
a  traditional  system  of  governance  to  a  de  facto  constitutional 
monarchy  while  retaining  its  firm  Buddhist  religious  basis.  Physi- 
cal isolation  was  overcome  with  major  road  construction  and  ad- 
vances in  telecommunications  that  linked  the  various  parts  of  the 
country  and  gave  greater  access  to  the  outside  world.  Internation- 
al air  travel  brought  tourism  and  greater  amounts  of  foreign  ex- 
change needed  for  economic  development.  Having  observed  the 
problems  encountered  by  other  developing  nations,  Bhutan  sought 
a  more  controlled  economic  and  infrastructure  development  with 
the  assistance  of  major  foreign  and  international  organizations. 
Once  exclusively  reliant  on  India  for  trade  and  aid,  the  kingdom 
broadened  its  import/export  base  and  diversified  its  sources  of  eco- 
nomic assistance  markedly  during  this  period. 

Despite  these  positive  achievements,  Bhutan  faced  serious  po- 
litical problems  in  the  early  1990s.  The  Nepalese  minority  in 
southern  Bhutan  had  been  a  source  of  serious  ethnic  disturbances 
and  even  terrorist  acts,  and  its  demands  for  greater  participation 
in  the  political  process  had  been  on  the  rise  since  the  mid-1980s. 
The  threat  to  the  indigenous  population  of  gradually  being  out- 
numbered by  politically  active  immigrant  Nepalese  raised  for  Bhu- 
tan's leaders  the  specter  of  Sikkim's  annexation  by  India  in  1974, 
when  that  kingdom's  indigenous  Buddhist  people  became  a  minority 
in  their  own  country  and  lost  political  power.  The  question  of  how 
to  modernize  the  nation  politically  remained  a  crucial  one,  and 


342 


Bhutan 


Bhutan's  independence  and  sovereignty  hung  in  the  balance  as  the 
1990s  progressed. 

*    *  * 

The  annual  writings  of  Brian  Shaw  in  the  Far  Eastern  Econom- 
ic Review's  Asia  Yearbook,  Statesman's  Year- Book,  and  Europa's  The 
Far  East  and  Australasia  and  Europa  World  Year  Book  provide  an  ex- 
cellent and  up-to-date  overview  of  all  facets  of  Bhutanese  history, 
society,  economy,  politics,  and  other  sectors.  Bhutan:  The  Early  His- 
tory of  a  Himalayan  Kingdom  by  Michael  Aris  provides  a  detailed  view 
of  Bhutan's  historical  origins  as  derived  from  Bhutanese  primary 
sources.  Bhutan's  general  history  is  well  covered  in  History  of  Bhu- 
tan by  Bikrama  Jit  Hasrat.  The  Bhutan  Planning  Commission's 
Statistical  Yearbook  of  Bhutan  provides  copious  information  on  many 
sectors  of  society  and  the  economy.  Social  and  economic  develop- 
ments are  cogently  presented  in  Pradyumna  P.  Karan's  Bhutan: 
Development  Amid  Environmental  and  Cultural  Preservation,  and  his  earlier 
book,  Bhutan:  A  Physical  and  Cultural  Geography,  provides  key  infor- 
mation on  geography.  The  World  Bank's  Bhutan:  Development  in 
a  Himalayan  Kingdom  and  Bhutan:  Development  Planning  in  a  Unique 
Environment  are  excellent  analyses  of  economic  development.  Arti- 
cles by  Sukhdev  Shah  and  S.W.R.  de  A.  Samarasinghe  in  Asian 
Survey  also  provide  useful  analyses  of  the  economy  of  Bhutan.  Po- 
litical developments  from  the  seventeenth  to  the  mid-twentieth  cen- 
tury are  well  presented  in  Leo  E.  Rose's  The  Politics  of  Bhutan.  The 
weekly  official  newspaper  Kuensel  [Thimphu]  is  a  good  source  of 
current  official  information  on  government  and  popular  activities. 
To  keep  abreast  of  subsequent  publications  on  Bhutan,  the  Associ- 
ation for  Asian  Studies'  annual  Bibliography  of  Asian  Studies  should 
be  consulted.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see 
Bibliography.) 


343 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Nepal:  Population  Growth,  Selected  Years,  1911-2001 

3  Nepal:  Population  Density  and  Agricultural  Density  by 

Region,  1961,  1971,  and  1981 

4  Nepal:  Lifetime  Regional  Migration,  1971  and  1981 

5  Nepal:  Reasons  for  Lifetime  Regional  Migration  by  Region 

and  Sex,  1981 

6  Nepal:  Reasons  for  External  Absentee  Migration  by  Region 

and  Sex,  1981 

7  Nepal:  Distribution  of  Population  by  Mother  Tongue,  1981 

8  Nepal:  Distribution  of  Land  by  Region  and  Size  of  Holding, 

1981 

9  Nepal:  Planned  Expenditures  in  the  Public  Sector,  1970-90 

10  Nepal:  Public  Sector  Development  Expenditures  and  Foreign 

Aid,  1956-90 

11  Nepal:  Government  Budget,  Fiscal  Years,  1987-90 

12  Nepal:  Direction  of  Foreign  Trade,  Fiscal  Years,  1989,  1990, 

and  1991 

13  Nepal:  Exports  to  India  by  Commodity  Group,  Fiscal  Years 

1986-89 

14  Nepal:  Exports  by  Country,  Fiscal  Years  1985-88 

15  Nepal:  Exports  by  Commodity  Group,  Fiscal  Years  1986-89 

16  Nepal:  Imports  by  Country,  Fiscal  Years  1985-88 

17  Nepal:  Imports  by  Commodity  Group,  Fiscal  Years  1986-89 

18  Nepal:  Disbursement  of  Foreign  Loans  and  Grants,  Selected 

Fiscal  Years,  1984-90 

19  Nepal:  Disbursement  of  Foreign  Aid,  Fiscal  Years  1976-86 

20  Nepal:  Power  and  Irrigation  Facilities,  1956-90 

21  Nepal:  Production  of  Principal  Crops,  Fiscal  Years  1986-89 

22  Bhutan:  Climatic  Statistics,  Selected  Stations,  1988 

23  Bhutan:  Population  by  District,  1969  and  1980 

24  Bhutan:  Gross  Domestic  Product  by  Sector,  Selected  Years, 

1981-91 

25  Bhutan:  Value  and  Growth  Rate  of  Gross  Domestic  Product, 

Selected  Years,  1980-91 

26  Bhutan:  Allocation  and  Sources  of  Funds  under  Development 

Plans,  1961-92 


345 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Table 

27  Bhutan:  Allocation  of  Funds  under  Development  Plans  by  Sec- 

tor or  Business,  1961-92 

28  Bhutan:  Major  Trade  with  India,  Selected  Years,  1981-87 

29  Bhutan:  Foreign  Trade,  Fiscal  Years  1982-89 

30  Bhutan:  Balance  of  Payments,  Selected  Fiscal  Years,  1982-88 

31  Bhutan:  Diplomatic  Relations  with  Other  Nations,  1990 

32  Bhutan:  Membership  in  Major  International  Organizations, 

1990 

33  Bhutan:  Ranks  in  the  Royal  Bhutan  Army,  1991 


346 


Appendix 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

When  you  know 

Multiply  by 

To  find 

  0.04 

inches 

  0.39 

inches 

feet 

  0.62 

miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)  

  2.47 

acres 

  0.39 

square  miles 

  35.3 

cubic  feet 

  0.26 

gallons 

  2.2 

pounds 

  0.98 

long  tons 

  1.1 

short  tons 

  2,204 

pounds 

L*-t71  1.8 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade) 

and  add  32 

Table  2.  Nepal:  Population  Growth,  Selected  Years,  1911-2001 


Population  Growth  Rate 

Year  (in  thousands)  (in  percentages) 


1911    5,639  n.a. 

1921    5,574  -0.13 

1931    5,533  -0.07 

1941    6,284  1.16 

1952/54    8,473  2.27 

1961    9,413  1.64 

1971    11,556  2.05 

1981    15,023  2.62 

2001  *   23,593  2.30 


n.a. — not  applicable. 

*  Projected  as  medium  variant. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nepal,  National  Planning  Commission,  Secretariat, 
Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Pocket  Book:  Nepal,  1988,  Kathmandu,  1988,  21. 


347 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Table  3.  Nepal:  Population  Density  and  Agricultural  Density  by  Region, 
1961,  1971,  and  1981 


Region 

1961  1 

1971 

1981 

Population  density  2 

99 

9^ 

99 

117 

  101 

128 

193 

NEPAL   

  64 

79 

102 

Agricultural  density  3 

9.3 

10.6 

6.5 

7.6 

  2.4 

3.1 

4.7 

NEPAL   

  3.8 

4.7 

6.1 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  Mountain  and  Hill  regions  together  had  population  density  figure  of  53  and  agricultural  density  figure 
of  5.6. 

2  Persons  per  square  kilometer  of  total  land. 

3  Persons  per  hectare  of  cultivable  land. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nanda  R.  Shrestha,  Landlessness  and  Migration  in  Nepal, 
Boulder,  Colorado,  1990,  121. 


Table  4.  Nepal:  Lifetime  Regional  Migration,  1971  and  1981 


 Place  of  Birth  

Mountain  Hill  Tarai 

Place  of  Enumeration  Year         Region  Region        Region  Total 


Mountain  Region   1971  n.a.  9,258  440  9,698 

1981  n.a.  33,423  2,196  35,619 

Hill  Region                                1971  15,667  n.a.  9,699  25,366 

1981  134,254  n.a.  35,669  169,923 

Tarai  Region                              1971  33,990  376,074  n.a.  410,064 

1981  162,832  561,211  n.a.  724,043 

TOTAL                                    1971  49,657  385,332  10,139  445,128 

1981  297,086  594,634  37,865  929,585  * 


n.a. — not  applicable. 

*  Excludes  migration  flows  within  the  same  region;  including  these  flows  would  bring  the  total  to 
1,272,300  persons. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nanda  R.  Shrestha,  Landlessness  and  Migration  in  Nepal, 
Boulder,  Colorado,  1990,  27. 


348 


Appendix 


iO   i-H  CO   »-H   CD  CM 


CM  <0  C7>  CO  O  © 


CM         CM  CO 


t*»        CO  O")  CO 


'2  § 


co  cm  cm  co  m  m 

M  if)  if)  «  «  (N 


lonoa 

O  CM  CM  O 


3  S 


in  6     •*  6  « 


Ol  CM  CM  Ol  CM 


ifnom  o  «  * 
<o  cb  »-i       oS  en 


=  1 


n  cm  r-  O 


io  a  m  co  m  co 


■>*<  r~  r-  <£>  -*< 


o 


~  ■«*«  ~  in 
id  n  «  6  6 


*  cm      in  cm  « 


£5  C 

C  3 

3  O 

o  5 


en  n  cn  cm  id  c?) 


to  *  en  cm  cm  cm 
O  in  o  O  <-b 


5  S 


3  «  «  «  | 
<  c/2  go  Z 


C  3 

RJ  .±2 


C 
— 

r 


Si 


349 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


T3  u 

V  V 

s  -s 

£  O 

S  ^ 


-o  3 


™  CM 

c 


o  o 
—  o 


CO 
CM  CO 
CO 


00  CM 


00 

CO 


is 


1f|11 


e  bo 

3    s-  «J 

o  z  ^ 


co  o 

<£>  o 


28 
of 

00 

CM 


O  CO 


CO  O 
CM 


be 


u 
bo 
u  <$ 


.2  | 


^  Tg  2  cu 


ii  £  u 
£  2  a< 


2  Pu 


350 


Appendix 


351 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Table  7.  Nepal:  Distribution  of  Population 
by  Mother  Tongue,  1981 


Mother  Tongue 

Number 

Percentage 

  8,767,361 

58.4 

  1,668,309 

11.1 

Bhojpuri  

  1,142,805 

7.6 

  545,685 

3.6 

  522,416 

3.5 

Newari  

  448,746 

3.0 

Abadhi   

  234,343 

1.5 

  221,353 

1.5 

  212,681 

1.4 

  174,464 

1.2 

1  9Q 

  73,589 

0.5 

  59,383 

0.4 

  22,403 

0.1 

  13,522 

0.1 

  10,650 

0.1 

  5,804 

  5,289 

Other  

  764,802 

5.1 

TOTAL 

15,022,839 

100.0 

— means  negligible. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nepal,  National  Planning  Commission,  Secretariat, 
Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Pocket  Book:  Nepal,  1988,  Kathmandu,  1988,  24. 


352 


Appendix 


Table  8.  Nepal:  Distribution  of  Land  by  Region  and  Size  of  Holding,  1981 

(in  hectares) 


Region 

Under  0.5 

0.5  to  1.0 

1.0  to  3.0 

3.0  to  5.0 

Over  5.0 

Total 

Mountain  Region 

Households 

.  131,703 

37,767 

23,423 

2,534 

2,151 

197,578 

Percentage   .  .  . 

66.7 

19.1 

11.8 

1.3 

1.1 

100.0 

Holdings 

24,563 

27,787 

31,403 

9,842 

28,992 

122,587 

Percentage  .  .  . 

.  20.0 

22.7 

25.6 

8.0 

23.7 

100.0 

Average  holding 

0.2 

0.7 

1.3 

3.9 

13.5 

0.6 

Hill  Region 

Households 

541,988 

194,403 

250,203 

41,468 

17,158 

1,045,220 

Percentage  .  .  . 

51.9 

18.6 

23.9 

4.0 

1.6 

100.0 

Holdings 

.  98,731 

145,776 

375,079 

157,383 

162,735 

939,704 

Percentage  .  .  . 

10.5 

15.5 

39.9 

16.7 

17.4 

100.0 

Average  holding 

0.2 

0.7 

1.5 

3.8 

9.5 

0.9 

larai  Region 

T  T  „  1  1  J  „ 

riouseholds 

A1A  om 

1  OQ  QCLA 
lZO,ZDV 

zoz,  job 

1  R  CC1 

/o,oo/ 

00, 04-0 

OK  1     1  CO 

yol , loo 

Percentage  .  .  . 

1  3  C\ 

97  A 
Z.  1 .0 

q  n 
o.U 

O.o 

1  nn  n 

1UU.U 

Holdings 

Number  ...... 

QO    *7  A  C 

jo,7(JD 

yi,jo7 

ACQ    CO  1 

4b0,021 

OOO    A  A1 

^00,44:/ 

519,386 

1     A  f\i     A  OC 

1 ,4Ul,42o 

Percentage  .  .  . 

0  7 

o.o 

33  1 

ZU.O 

37  1 

1  nn  n 

Average  holding 

0.1 

0.7 

1.8 

3.8 

9.3 

1.5 

TOTAL 

Households 

Number  

1,107,901 

355,420 

536,012 

119,669 

74,954 

2,193,956 

Percentage  .  .  . 

50.5 

16.2 

24.4 

5.5 

3.4 

100.0 

Holdings 

Number  

.  161,999 

264,930 

870,003 

455,672 

711,113 

2,463,717 

Percentage   .  .  . 

6.6 

10.7 

35.3 

18.5 

28.9 

100.0 

Average  holding 

0.2 

0.8 

1.6 

3.8 

9.5 

1.1 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nanda  R.  Shrestha,  Landlessness  and  Migration  in  Nepal, 
Boulder,  Colorado,  1990,  127. 


353 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Table  9.  Nepal:  Planned  Expenditures  in  the  Public  Sector,  1970-90 
(in  percentages) 

Fourth  Plan  Fifth  Plan  Sixth  Plan  Seventh  Plan 


Sector  (1970-75)  (1975-80)  (1980-85)  (1985-90) 


Agriculture    26.0  30.0  29.4  30.6 

Transportation   41.2  25.4  20.6  17.7 

Industry   18.4  21.2  21.9  26.0 

Social  services    14.4  23.5  28.1  25.7 


TOTAL  *    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0 


•  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Badri  Prasad  Shreshtha,  Nepalese  Economy  in  Retrospect 
and  Prospect,  Kathmandu,  1990,  22. 


Table  10.  Nepal:  Public  Sector  Development  Expenditures 
and  Foreign  Aid,  1956-90 
(in  millions  of  rupees)  1 

 Foreign  Aid 

Planned  Percentage  of 

Development  Development 


Period  Expenditures  Value  Expenditures 


First  Plan  (1956-61)                                   382.9  2  382.9  100.0 

Second  Plan  (1962-65)                               614.7  478.3  77.8 

Third  Plan  (1965-70)                               1,639.1  919.2  56.1 

Fourth  Plan  (1970-75)                             3,356.9  1,509.1  45.0 

Fifth  Plan  (1975-80)                                8,832.5  4,240.8  48.0 

Sixth  Plan  (1980-85)    22,090.1  10,585.2  47.9 

Seventh  Plan  (1985-90)   29,000.0  20,480.0  70.6 

1985-  86                                             6,213.3  3,491.5  60.1  3 

1986-  87                                            7,377.9  3,990.9  68.8  3 

1987-  88                                             9,428.0  5,892.6  62.5  3 


1  For  value  of  the  rupee — see  Glossary. 

2  Actual  amount  disbursed. 

3  As  published. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Babu  Ram  Shrestha,  Managing  External  Assistance  in  Nepal, 
Kathmandu,  1990,  45,  118-19. 


354 


Appendix 


Table  11.  Nepal:  Government  Budget,  Fiscal  Years  1987-90 
(in  millions  of  rupees)  1 


1987 

1988 

1989  2 

1990  3 

Expenditures 

Regular  

4,135.2 

4,676.9 

5,765.1 

6,651.2 

Development 

7  378  0 

9,428.0 

9,495.5 

13,590.7 

Total  expenditures  

11  513  2 

14,104.9 

15,260.6 

20,241.9 

Revenues 

.  ..  5,975.1 

7,350.4 

7,540.7 

8,500.6 

.  ..  1,285.1 

2,076.8 

1,817.9 

8,000.6 

.  .  .  7,260.2 

9,427.2 

9,358.6 

16,501.2 

4,253.0 

4,677.7 

5,902.0 

3,740.7 

Loans 

.  .  .  2,705.8 

3,815.8 

4,169.4 

7,767.4 

.  ..  1,644.7 

1,130.0 

1,130.0 

1,750.0 

,  .  .  4,350.5 

4,945.8 

5,299.4 

9,517.4 

Cash  balance  (-  means  surplus)  4   .  . 

-97.5 

-268.0 

602.6 

n.a. 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  For  value  of  the  rupee — see  Glossary. 

2  Revised  estimate. 

3  Estimate. 

4  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nepal,  National  Planning  Commission,  Secretariat, 
Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Pocket  Book:  Nepal,  1990,  Kathmandu,  1990, 
199. 


Table  12.  Nepal:  Direction  of  Foreign  Trade,  Fiscal  Years  1989, 
1990,  and  1991 
(in  millions  of  rupees)  1 

1989  1990  2  1991  3 


Exports 

India    1,034.9  666.6  1,348.0 

Other   3,160.4  4,568.9  4,182.1 

Total  exports    4,195.3  5,235.5  5,530.1 

Imports 

India    4,238.7  4,646.3  5,574.5 

Other   12,025.0  13,755.2  11,281.9 

Total  imports    16,263.7  18,401.5  16,856.4 

Trade  balance 

India    -3,203.8  -3,979.7  -4,226.5 

Other   -8,864.6  -9,186.3  -7,099.8 

Total  trade  balance    -12,068.4  -13,166.0  -11,326.3 


1  For  value  of  the  rupee — see  Glossary. 

2  Provisional. 

3  Provisional;  first  nine  months  of  fiscal  year. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nepal  Rastra  Bank,  Research  Department,  Main  Eco- 
nomic Indicators,  Kathmandu,  February-April  1991,  Table  17. 


355 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Table  13.  Nepal:  Exports  to  India  by  Commodity  Group,  Fiscal  Years 

1986-89  1 
(in  millions  of  rupees)  2 


Commodity  Group 

1986 

1987 

1988 

1989  3 

573.0 

560.0 

773.2 

463.1 

Tobacco  and  beverages   

0.1 

2.7 

1.8 

1.1 

Crude  materials  and  inedibles,  except 

364.5 

460.0 

390.0 

212.4 

0.2 

0.2 

0.8 

Animal  and  vegetable  oils  and  fats   

56.0 

73.8 

144.1 

94.8 

Chemicals  and  drugs  

1.0 

1.2 

11.1 

16.5 

Manufactured  goods  classified  chiefly  by 

201.7 

193.1 

228.5 

180.2 

Machinery  and  transportation  equipment  . 

37.5 

0.9 

0.1 

4.2 

Miscellaneous  manufactured  goods   

6.8 

10.8 

15.7 

18.3 

Other   

0.3 

0.2 

2.5 

TOTAL   

1,241.1 

1,302.9 

1,567.8 

990.6 

— means  negligible. 

1  Based  on  customs  data. 

2  For  value  of  the  rupee — see  Glossary 

3  Provisional. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nepal,  National  Planning  Commission,  Secretariat, 
Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Pocket  Book:  Nepal,  1990,  Kathmandu,  1990, 
252. 


Table  14.  Nepal:  Exports  by  Country,  Fiscal  Years  1985-88  * 
(in  percentages) 


Country  1985  1986  1987  1988 


Bangladesh    —               —  0.3  — 

Britain    9.4  6.1  10.1  10.0 

China    n.a.  n.a.  —  — 

Hong  Kong    1.5  2.8  0.7  0.3 

Japan    1.2  0.6  1.6  0.8 

Pakistan    —  0.1  0.1  — 

Singapore    6.2  12.3  6.4  1.2 

Soviet  Union    8.6  3.8  2.6  1.6 

United  States    43.2  45.8  36.5  37.1 

West  Germany    13.1  13.7  18.2  26.7 

Other    16.8  14.8  23.5  22.3 


TOTAL    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0 


— means  negligible, 
n.a. — not  available. 
*  Excluding  India, 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nepal,  National  Planning  Commission,  Secretariat, 
Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Pocket  Book:  Nepal,  1990,  Kathmandu,  1990, 
243. 


356 


Appendix 


Table  15.  Nepal:  Exports  by  Commodity  Group,  Fiscal  Years  1986-89  1 
(in  millions  of  rupees)  2 


Commodity  Group 

1986 

1987 

1988 

1989  3 

835.6 

703.7 

804.4 

540.5 

Tobacco  and  beverages  

0.2 

3.5 

10.1 

5.0 

C^niHf*  material?  anH  inpHiHl**^        r f*T\t 

412.9 

491.1 

513.7 

245.2 

0.2 

0.2 

0.8 

n.a. 

Animal  anH  vpcxptPinlp  nm  ann  tstt<t 

61.3 

117.1 

171.5 

98.1 

2.5 

2.0 

12.6 

24.3 

Manufactured  goods  classified  chiefly 

900.0 

1,009.6 

1,601.6 

1,986.5 

Machinery  and  transportation 

38.6 

2.6 

0.5 

5.7 

Miscellaneous  manufactured  goods  

826.5 

661.5 

996.9 

1,250.1 

Other   

0.3 

0.2 

2.5 

n.a. 

TOTAL   

3,078.1 

2,991.5 

4,114.6 

4,155.4 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  Based  on  customs  data. 

2  For  value  of  the  rupee — see  Glossary. 

3  Provisional. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nepal,  National  Planning  Commission,  Secretariat, 
Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Pocket  Book:  Nepal,  1990,  Kathmandu,  1990, 
249. 


Table  16.  Nepal:  Imports  by  Country,  Fiscal  Years  1985-88  * 
(in  percentages) 


Country 

1985 

1986 

1987 

1988 

  6.4 

1.9 

3.0 

3.0 

  6.4 

5.8 

4.4 

5.6 

  2.8 

3.5 

3.2 

2.6 

Japan   

  22.3 

28.7 

22.9 

20.8 

  5.1 

6.4 

12.4 

13.1 

  10.1 

8.8 

9.2 

6.9 

  11.3 

3.4 

0.1 

4.6 

  2.2 

2.0 

2.5 

1.8 

  3.1 

3.3 

1.4 

2.1 

  4.8 

5.2 

5.0 

8.1 

Other   

  25.5 

31.0 

35.9 

31.4 

TOTAL   

  100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

*  Excluding  India. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nepal,  National  Planning  Commission,  Secretariat, 
Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Pocket  Book:  Nepal,  1990,  Kathmandu,  1990, 
244. 


357 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Table  17.  Nepal:  Imports  by  Commodity  Group,  Fiscal  Years  1986-89  1 
(in  millions  of  rupees)  2 


Commodity  Group 

1986 

1987 

1988 

1989  3 

971.1 

1,028.9 

1,523.7 

1,291.1 

113.0 

144.0 

172.2 

203.7 

Crude  materials  and  inedibles, 

393.0 

657.2 

1,306.9 

1,165.4 

\^irif*r5il  tiipIq  q nH  liiHnpjiritQ 

1  054.0 

929.5 

1  049.9 

1  128.4 

Animal  and  vegetable  oils  and  fats   .  . 

102.0 

175.9 

352.6 

345.6 

1,170.2 

1,287.6 

1,495.3 

1,541.4 

Manufactured  goods  classified 

2,759.5 

3,226.8 

3,359.2 

4,678.8 

Machinery  and  transportation 

2,134.7 

2,784.1 

4,143.7 

4,861.2 

Miscellaneous  manufactured  goods  .  . 

637.2 

664.0 

729.1 

1,020.2 

Other   

6.7 

7.3 

7.0 

4.7 

TOTAL   

9,341.4 

10,905.3 

14,139.6 

16,240.5 

1  Based  on  customs  data. 

2  For  value  of  the  rupee — see  Glossary. 

3  Provisional. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nepal,  National  Planning  Commission,  Secretariat, 
Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Pocket  Book:  Nepal,  1990,  Kathmandu,  1990, 
254. 


Table  18.  Nepal:  Disbursement  of  Foreign  Loans  and  Grants,  Selected 
Fiscal  Years,  1984-90 
(in  millions  of  rupees)  * 


Source  1984  1985  1989  1990 


Bilateral 

Grants    765.5  756.9  1,363.8  1,674:0 

Loans   217.7  399.4  507.8  1,000.6 

Total  bilateral   983.2  1,156.3  1,871.6  2,674.6 

Multilateral 

Grants    111.1  166.5  316.8  301.3 

Loans   1,453.2  1,353.6  5,158.6  4,959.0 

Total  multilateral    1,564.3  1,520.1  5,475.4  5,260.3 


TOTAL   2,547.5  2,676.4  7,347.0  7,934.9 


*  For  value  of  the  rupee — see  Glossary. 


358 


Appendix 


Table  19.  Nepal:  Disbursement  of  Foreign  Aid,  Fiscal  Years  1976-86 
(in  millions  of  rupees)  * 


Fiscal  Year  Committed  Disbursed  Difference 


1976    1,415.7  505.6  910.1 

1977    1,911.2  556.9  1,354.3 

1978    1,956.2  848.4  1,107.8 

1979    2,417.3  980.4  1,436.9 

1980    1,911.6  1,340.5  571.1 

1981    4,012.6  1,462.2  2,550.4 

1982    2,886.1  1,723.2  1,162.9 

1983    2,959.2  2,075.9  883.3 

1984    3,099.6  2,547.5  552.1 

1985    5,991.4  2,676.4  3,315.0 

1986    9,504.2  3,491.5  6,012.7 


•  For  value  of  the  rupee — see  Glossary. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Babu  Ram  Shrestha,  Managing  External  Assistance  in  Nepal, 
Kathmandu,  1990,  94,  116. 


Table  20.  Nepal:  Power  and  Irrigation  Facilities,  1956-90 
(in  hectares) 


Period  Area 


First  Plan  (1956-61)    5,200 

Second  Plan  (1962-65)    1,035 

Third  Plan  (1965-70)    52,860 

Fourth  Plan  (1970-75)   37,733 

Fifth  Plan  (1975-80)    95,425 

Sixth  Plan  (1980-85)    172,649 

Seventh  Plan  (1985-90)    217,845 


TOTAL   582,747 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nepal,  National  Planning  Commission,  Secretariat, 
Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Pocket  Book:  Nepal,  1990,  Kathmandu,  1990, 
117. 


359 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Table  21.  Nepal:  Production  of  Principal  Crops,  Fiscal  Years  1986-89 
(in  thousands  of  tons) 


Crop  1986  1987  1988  1989  * 


Barley    23  25  *  24  27 

Corn    874  868  901  1,072 

Jute    61  23  15  18 

Millet   138  137  150  183 

Oilseeds   .  ..  79  83  94  99 

Potatoes   357  395  567  640 

Rice  (paddy)    2,804  2,372  2,981  3,283 

Sugarcane    558  616  *  814  903 

Tobacco    5  5  4  5 

Wheat    598  701  744  830 


*  Estimate. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nepal,  National  Planning  Commission,  Secretariat, 
Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  Statistical  Pocket  Book:  Nepal,  1990,  Kathmandu,  1990,  40. 


Table  22.  Bhutan:  Climatic  Statistics,  Selected  Stations,  1988 


Average  Annual   Temperature  2 


Station  Precipitation  1  Minimum  Maximum 


Chhukha   1,566  8.7  27.6 

Daga   1,282  7.5  25.3 

Damphu    1,818  6.5  23.4 

Gedu   3,498  4.2  23.7 

Samchi    4,290  16.3  32.0 

Shemgang  :  1,743  6.4  20.1 

Thimphu    646  -3.8  25.6 

Tongsa    1,259  -0.1  21.7 

Wangdiphodrang   639  4.6  28.3 


1  In  millimeters. 

2  In  degrees  Celsius. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Bhutan,  Planning  Commission,  Central  Statistical  Office, 
Statistical  Yearbook  of  Bhutan,  1989,  Thimphu,  May  1990,  28-33. 


360 


Appendix 


Table  23.  Bhutan:  Population  by  District,  1969  and  1980 


District 

1969 

1980 

n.a. 

Chhukha   

97,200 

  80,357 

104,500 

  46,316 

n.a. 

Daga   

27,700 

Dar  

  16,908 

n.a. 

  10,344 

n.a. 

Geylegphug   

112,800 

Ha   

  21,356 

17,100 

Ja  • • • •  

  37,816 

n.a. 

  45,651 

36,900 

  121,252 

71,300 

  21,212 

n.a. 

35,100 

34,500 

  63,032 

39,800 

^7  Ifil 

1 Qnn 

72,200 

  53,136 

43,300 

  234,708 

170,000 

  60,027 

64,600 

28,600 

47,700 

  61,338 

n.a. 

TOTAL   

  930,614 

1,142,200  * 

n.a. — not  available. 

*  A  total  of  1,165,000  was  provided  by  Bhutan's  Central  Statistical  Office 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Leo  E.  Rose,  The  Politics  of  Bhutan,  Ithaca,  1977,  41; 
and  Bhutan,  Planning  Commission,  Central  Statistical  Office,  Statistical  Yearbook 
of  Bhutan,  1989,  Thimphu,  May  1990,  2. 


361 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Table  24.  Bhutan:  Gross  Domestic  Product  by  Sector, 
Selected  Years,  1981-91  1 
(in  percentages) 


Sector 

1981 

1983 

1985 

1987 

1989  2 

1991  2 

.  25.9 

26.3 

24.7 

20.3 

20.5 

20.3 

.  12.3 

11.9 

11.7 

10.5 

10.3 

10.2 

14.7 

15.0 

16.2 

15.2 

15.0 

15.7 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

Total  agriculture,  forestry,  and 

.  59.2 

53.2 

52.6 

46.0 

45.8 

46.2 

0.6 

0.6 

0.9 

1.0 

1.3 

1.5 

4.9 

5.5 

5.5 

5.8 

4.8 

5.2 

.  0.2 

0.4 

0.3 

10.7 

12.0 

10.7 

1  1  9 

i  %  a 

1.5. 0 

10  4. 

Q  Q 

0  Q 

o  n 

Commercial  services  3   

12.2 

9.7 

8.6 

7.0 

7.5 

7.4 

Transportation,  storage,  and 

4.5 

4.4 

4.4 

3.6 

4.0 

4.1 

Finance,  insurance,  real  estate, 

6.3 

5.7 

6.4 

6.0 

5.8 

5.9 

Community,  social,  and 

9.5 

8.8 

11.1 

11.8 

11.5 

11.6 

(Less  imputed  bank  service 

.  -2.3 

-1.9 

-2.2 

-1.8 

-1.6 

-1.6 

TOTAL  

.  100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

— means  negligible. 

1  Based  on  current  prices. 

2  Projected. 

3  Wholesale  and  retail  trade,  hotels,  and  restaurants. 
♦  Includes  government  administration  and  defense. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Bhutan,  Planning  Commission,  Central  Statistical  Office, 
Statistical  Yearbook  of  Bhutan,  1989,  Thimphu,  May  1990,  82,  84. 


362 


Appendix 


Table  25.  Bhutan:  Value  and  Growth  Rate  of  Gross  Domestic 
Product,  Selected  Years,  1980-91  1 


Year  Value  2  Growth  Rate  3 


1980    1,095  n.a. 

1981    1,280  16.9 

1982    1,498  17.0 

1983    1,754  17.0 

1984    2,060  17.5 

1985    2,350  14.1 

1986    2,759  17.4 

1987    3,531  28.0 

1988  4    3,441  7.6 

1989  4    3,633  5.6 

1990  4    3,835  5.6 

1991  4    4,049  5.6 


n.a. — not  available. 

1  Based  on  current  prices. 

2  In  millions  of  ngultrum;  for  value  of  the  ngultrum — see  Glossary. 

3  In  percentages. 

4  Projected  for  Sixth  Development  Plan  (1987-92). 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Bhutan,  Planning  Commission,  Central  Statistical  Office, 
Statistical  Yearbook  of  Bhutan,  1989,  Thimphu,  May  1990,  82,  84. 


Table  26.  Bhutan:  Allocation  and  Sources  of  Funds  under  Development 

Plans,  1961-92 


 Sources  of  Funds  2  

Development  Plan  Funds  Allocated  '       Domestic  3       India       Other 4 


First  (1961-66)    107  0.0  100.0  0.0 

Second  (1966-71)    202  1.1  98.9  0.0 

Third  (1971-76)    475  6.9  89.8  3.3 

Fourth  (1976-81)    1,106  5.4  77.1  17.5 

Fifth  (1981-87)   4,711  31.0  42.8  26.2 

Sixth  (1987-92)    9,500  5  34.7  27.5  37.8 


n.a. — not  available. 

1  In  round  millions  of  ngultrum;  for  value  of  the  ngultrum — see  Glossary. 

2  In  percentages. 

3  Domestic  revenues  and  internal  loans. 

4  External  grants  and  loans  (includes  financial  gap). 

5  Proposed. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  Bhutan:  Development  Planning  in  a  Unique 
Environment,  Washington,  1989,  26,  28,  33. 


363 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Table  27.  Bhutan:  Allocation  of  Funds  under  Development  Plans  by  Sector 
or  Business,  1961-92 
(in  percentages) 


Sector  or  Business 

First 
(1962-66) 

Second 
(1966-71) 

Third 
(1971-76) 

Fourth 
(1976-81) 

Fifth 
(1981-87) 

Sixth 
(1987-92) 

1.8 

10.7 

12.3 

23.4 

9.0 

9.2 

Food  Corporation  of 

Bhutan   

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

2.9 

1.1 

Animal  husbandry 

1.4 

2.9 

5.1 

5.6 

3.5 

3.5 

District  administration  . 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

2.5 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

4.1 

8.8 

17.7 

18.9 

12.2 

11.2 

8.1 

3.0 

3.4 

6.0 

10.0 

4.9 

4.4 

General  government  .  .  . 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

24.0 

20.6 

Geological  survey   

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.4 

Health   

2.9 

8.3 

8.0 

4.9 

5.1 

4.2 

Industry,  mining,  trade, 

1.0 

0.5 

5.3 

15.8 

7.0 

13.3 

Information  and 

0. 1 

0.7 

0.8 

1 .0 

0.8 

1.0 

Posts  and  telegraphs  .  .  . 

0.5 

2.9 

2.4 

1.5 

1.4 

0.7 

Power  generation  1 

1.4 

4.5 

6.3 

4.6 

7.3 

13.1 

58.7 

34.9 

17.8 

11.6 

16.9 

9.3 

Road  transportation 

7.0 

5.9 

2.0 

0.0 

0.6 

0.5 

Telecommunications  .  .  . 

0.0 

0.0 

3.1 

3.4 

0.7 

1.4 

0.0 

0.0 

3.0 

1.1 

0.6 

0.0 

Urban  development    .  .  . 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

4.0 

2.6 

Other   

13.4 

7.7 

8.9 

4.9 

0.0 

0.0 

TOTAL  2   

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  Excluding  the  Chhukha  Hydel  Project. 

2  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Bhutan,  Planning  Commission,  Central  Statistical  Office, 
Statistical  Yearbook  of  Bhutan,  1989,  Thimphu,  May  1990,  79. 


364 


Appendix 


Table  28.  Bhutan:  Major  Trade  with  India,  Selected  Years,  1981-87 
(in  millions  of  ngultrum)  * 


Commodity 

1981 

1983 

1985 

1987 

Exports 

35.7 

35.2 

55.0 

103.2 

16.0 

8.2 

46.8 

121.2 

  10.8 

8.0 

38.0 

21.9 



2.0 

4.5 

11.0 

21.2 

2.6 

  15.6 

5.1 

16.1 

23.2 

17.2 

3.6 

13.3 

19.7 

7.2 

8.1 

10.7 

6.0 

  1.0 

4.4 

7.8 

17.5 

4.2 

0.3 

3.0 

6.9 

0.9 

Apples   

0.1 

0.5 

6.1 

8.9 

Methyl  

4.9 

0.3 

3.2 

1.9 

Blockboard   

0.1 

14.8 

29.3 



275.9 







13.2 

Other  

  52.9 

69.7 

30.1 

31.1 

166.2 

157.2 

270.0 

702.4 

Imports 

.  .  .  .  28.0 

40.4 

53.4 

45.1 

Gasoline  

11.7 

13.4 

16.2 

20.3 

n.a. 

n.a. 

8.7 

Rice  

15.6 

17.2 

33.5 

52.3 

4.8 

1.0 

33.5 

30.1 

Electricity  . 

4  8 

15.8 

23.4 

14.2 

19.9 

4.4 

41.4 

23.4 

Iron  rods   

  28.8 

5.9 

21.7 

49.3 

Structures  and  parts  

.  .  .  .  44.3 

3.3 

8.7 

8.7 

Machinery  components  .... 

  14.6 

6.2 

49.6 

21.2 

Hardware  

  2.0 

1.3 

21.1 

2.5 

2.0 

2.5 

4.1 

6.6 

,    ,  11.3 

5.2 

13.3 

2.5 

  12.0 

1.3 

17.0 

16.4 

Other  

.  ...  320.8 

482.7 

463.1 

598.4 

520.6 

600.6 

800.0 

899.7 

TRADE  BALANCE   

-354.4 

-443.4 

-530.0 

-197.3 

— means  no  trade, 
n.a. — not  available. 

*  For  value  of  the  ngultrum — see  Glossary. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Bhutan,  Planning  Commission,  Central  Statistical  Office, 
Statistical  Yearbook  of  Bhutan,  1989,  Thimphu,  May  1990,  62. 


365 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Table  29.  Bhutan:  Foreign  Trade,  Fiscal  Years  1982-89 
(in  millions  of  ngultrum)  1 


Year  Exports  2  Imports  3  Trade  Balance 


1982    159.4  646.5  -487.1 

1983    160.7  730.0  -569.3 

1984    206.4  825.2  -618.8 

1985    272.0  1,041.6  -769.6 

1986    427.1  1,205.4  -778.3 

1987    711.9  1,194.6  -482.7 

1988    1,072.6  1,817.0  -744.4 

1989    1,190.7  1,770.2  -579.5 


1  For  value  of  the  ngultrum — see  Glossary. 

2  Free  on  board. 

3  Cost,  insurance,  and  freight. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Bhutan,  Planning  Commission,  Central  Statistical  Office, 
Statistical  Yearbook  of  Bhutan,  1989,  Thimphu,  May  1990,  61;  and  International  Mone- 
tary Fund,  International  Financial  Statistics,  Washington,  January  1991,  124. 


Table  30.  Bhutan:  Balance  of  Payments,  Selected  Fiscal  Years,  1982-88 
(in  millions  of  ngultrum)  1 


1982 

1984 

1986 

1988  2 

159.4 

206.4 

427.1 

1,072.6 

  -646.5 

-825.2 

-1,205.4 

-1,817.0 

  -487.1 

-618.8 

-778.3 

-744.4 

  131.3 

243.1 

314.7 

412.2 

Services  and  transfer  payments  .... 

  -389.9 

-511.4 

-616.0 

-635.2 

-754.7 

-887.1 

-1,079.6 

-967.4 

788.7 

989.0 

1,268.8 

1,086.3 

Other  loans   

  n.a. 

n.a. 

6.3 

278.3 

  25.9 

31.9 

-2.5 

-48.9 

59.9 

133.8 

193.0 

348.3 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  For  value  of  the  ngultrum — see  Glossary 

2  Estimate. 

3  Free  on  board. 

4  Cost,  insurance,  and  freight. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Bhutan,  Planning  Commission,  Central  Statistical  Office, 
Statistical  Yearbook  of  Bhutan,  1989,  Thimphu,  May  1990,  61. 


366 


Appendix 


Table  31.  Bhutan:  Diplomatic  Relations  with  Other 
Nations,  1990 


Nation  1  Year  2 


Austria   1989 

Bangladesh   1973 

Denmark    1985 

Finland    1986 

India    1949 

Japan    1986 

Kuwait   1983 

Maldives    1984 

Nepal    1983 

Netherlands    1985 

Norway    1985 

Pakistan    1988 

South  Korea    1987 

Sri  Lanka   1987 

Sweden    1985 

Switzerland    1985 


1  In  1988  Bhutan  also  recognized  the  State  of  Palestine  as  proclaimed  by  the  Palestine  National  Council 
in  Algiers. 

2  Date  relations  were  established. 


Table  32.  Bhutan:  Membership  in  Major  International 
Organizations,  1990 


Organization  Year  1 


Asian  Development  Bank    1982 

Asia-Pacific  Postal  Union    1983 

Colombo  Plan  for  Cooperative  Economic  and  Social  Development  in 

Asia  and  the  Pacific   1962 

Coordination  Bureau  of  Non-Aligned  Countries   1973 

European  Community   1985  2 

Food  and  Agriculture  Organization    1981 

International  Civil  Aviation  Organization   1989 

International  Development  Association    1981 

International  Fund  for  Agricultural  Development    1981 

International  Monetary  Fund    1981 

International  Telecommunications  Union    1988 

Group  of  77    1982 

South  Asia  Co-operative  Environmental  Programme    1982 

South  Asian  Association  for  Regional  Cooperation   1983 

United  Nations    1971 

United  Nations  Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific  .  1972 

United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific,  and  Cultural  Organization    1982 

Universal  Postal  Union   1969 

World  Bank    1981 

World  Health  Organization    1982 


1  Date  Bhutan  became  a  member. 

2  Observer  status. 


367 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Table  33.  Bhutan:  Ranks  in  the  Royal  Bhutan  Army,  1991 

Bhutanese  Rank  *  Translation 

Goongjey    Field  marshal 

Maksi  goong   General 

Goonglon   Lieutenant 

Goonglon  wogma    Major  general 

Dozin/Wangpon    Brigadier 

Maksi  gom    Colonel 

Maksi  worn   Lieutenant  colonel 

Lingpon    Major 

Chipon    Captain 

Deda  gom   Lieutenant 

Deda  worn    Second  lieutenant 

Dimpon  gom    Warrant  officer 

Dimpon  worn    Sergeant  major 

Pelpon    Sergeant 

Peljab    Corporal 

Gopa   Lance  corporal 

Chyuma    Private 

*  Not  all  ranks  have  incumbents.  Royal  Bhutan  Police  ranks  are  the  same  as  those  used  by  the  Royal 
Bhutan  Army. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Rigzin  Dorji,  Forms  of  Address  in  Bhutan,  New  Delhi, 
1976,  14. 


368 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Adhikari,  Krishna  Kant.  Nepal  under  Jang  Bahadur,  1846-1877. 

Kathmandu:  Buku,  1984. 
Agrawal,  Hem  Narayan.  Nepal:  A  Country  Study  in  Constitutional 

Change.  New  Delhi:  Oxford  &  IBH,  1980. 
Baral,  Lok  Raj.  "Nepal  in  1987:  Politics  Without  Power,"  Asian 

Survey,  28,  No.  2,  February  1988,  172-79. 
 "Nepal  in  1986:  Problems  of  Political  Management, ' ' 

Asian  Survey,  27,  No.  2,  February  1987,  173-80. 
Dhanalaxmi,  Ravuri.  British  Attitude  to  Nepal's  Relations  with  Tibet 

and  China,  1814-1914.  Chandigarh,  India:  Bahri,  1981. 
Gaige,  Frederick  H.  Regionalism  and  National  Unity  in  Nepal.  Berkeley: 

University  of  California  Press,  1975. 
Goswami,  Prodyot  Kumar.  Indian  Currency  and  Exchange,  1835-1940. 

New  Delhi:  Milind,  1983. 
Gurney,  Gene.  Kingdoms  of  Asia,  the  Middle  East,  and  Africa:  An  Il- 
lustrated Encyclopedia  of  Ruling  Monarchs  from  Ancient  Times  to  the 

Present.  New  York:  Crown,  1986. 
Heck,  Douglas.  "Nepal  in  1980:  The  Year  of  the  Referendum," 

Asian  Survey,  21,  No.  2,  February  1981,  181-87. 
Jain,  M.S.  Emergence  of  a  New  Aristocracy  in  Nepal,  1837-58.  Agra, 

India:  Sri  Ram  Mehar,  1972. 
Joshi,  Bhuwan  Lai,  and  Leo  E.  Rose.  Democratic  Innovations  in  Nepal: 

A  Case  Study  of  Political  Acculturation.  Berkeley:  University  of 

California  Press,  1966. 
Kapuria,  R.S.  The  Indian  Rupee:  A  Study  in  Retrospect  and  Prospect. 

Bombay:  Vora,  1967. 
Khadka,  Narayan.  "The  Political  Economy  of  the  Food  Crisis  in 

Nepal,"  Asian  Survey,  25,  No.  9,  September  1985,  943-62. 
Khanal,  Y.N.  "Nepal  in  1984:  A  Year  of  Complacence,"  Asian 

Survey,  25,  No.  2,  February  1985,  180-86. 
Koirala,  Niranjan.  "Nepal  in  1989:  A  Very  Difficult  Year,"  Asian 

Survey,  30,  No.  2,  February  1990,  136-43. 
Kulke,  Hermann,  and  Dietmar  Rothermund.  A  History  of  India. 

Totowa,  New  Jersey:  Barnes  and  Noble,  1986. 
Kumar,  Satish.  Rana  Polity  in  Nepal:  Origin  and  Growth.  New  York: 

Asia,  1967. 

Levi,  Sylvain.  Le  Nepal:  Etude  historique  d}un  royaume  hindou.  (3  vols.) 
Paris:  E  Leroux,  1905-8. 


369 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Misra,  Shashi  P.  B.P.  Koirala:  A  Case  Study  in  Third  World  Democratic 
Leadership.  Bhubaneswar,  India:  Konark,  1985. 

Mitra,  Debala.  Buddhist  Monuments.  Calcutta:  Sahitya  Samsad, 
1971. 

Mojumdar,  Kanchanmoy.  Anglo-Nepalese  Relations  in  the  Nineteenth 
Century.  Calcutta:  K.L.  Mukhopadhyay,  1973. 

Panday,  Devendra  Raj.  4  *  Nepal  in  1981:  Stagnation  Amidst 
Change,''  Asian  Survey,  22,  No.  2,  February  1982,  155-62. 

Parmanand.  The  Nepali  Congress  since  Its  Inception:  A  Critical  Assess- 
ment. Delhi:  B.R.  Publishing,  1982. 

Pemble,  John.  The  Invasion  of  Nepal:  John  Company  at  War.  Oxford: 
Oxford  University  Press,  1971. 

Petech,  Luciano.  Mediaeval  History  of  Nepal  (ca.  750-1480).  (2ded.) 
(Serie  orientale,  toma  54.)  Rome:  Institutio  Italiano  per  il  Me- 
dio ed  Estremo  Oriente,  1984. 

Pick's  Currency  Yearbook.  New  York:  Pick,  1973. 

Regmi,  Dilli  Raman.  Ancient  Nepal.  (3d  ed.)  Calcutta:  K.L.  Mu- 
khopadhyay, 1969. 

 Medieval  Nepal.  (4  vols.)  Calcutta:  K.L.  Mukhopadhyay, 

1965-66. 

Rose,  Leo  E.  Nepal:  Strategy  for  Survival.  Berkeley:  University  of 
California  Press,  1971. 

Rose,  Leo  E.,  and  Margaret  W.  Fisher.  The  Politics  of  Nepal:  Per- 
sistence and  Change  in  an  Asian  Monarchy.  Ithaca:  Cornell  Univer- 
sity Press,  1970. 

Rose,  Leo  E.,  and  John  T.  Scholz.  Nepal:  Profile  of  a  Himalayan 
Kingdom.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1980. 

Shah,  Sukhdev.  " Developing  an  Economy:  Nepal's  Experience," 
Asian  Survey,  21,  No.  10,  October  1981,  1060-79. 

Slusser,  Mary  Shephers.  Nepal  Mandala:  A  Cultural  Study  of  the  Kath- 
mandu  Valley.  (2  vols.)  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press, 
1982. 

Spear,  Percival.  A  History  of  India.  New  York:  Penguin  Books,  1981. 

Stiller,  Ludwig.  The  Rise  of  the  House  of Gorkha:  A  Study  in  the  Unifi- 
cation of  Nepal.  New  Delhi:  Manjusri,  1973. 

 The  Silent  Cry:  The  People  of  Nepal,  1816-1839.  Kathman- 

du:  Sahayogi  Prakashan  1976. 

Thapar,  Romila.  A  History  of  India.  New  York:  Penguin,  1966. 

Tucci,  Giuseppe.  Nepal:  The  Discovery  of  the  Malla.  (Trans.,  Lovett 
Edwards.)  New  York:  Dutton,  1962. 

Tyagi,  Sushila.  Indo-Nepalese  Relations,  1858-1914.  Delhi:  D.K.  Pub- 
lishing, 1974. 


370 


Bibliography 


Wright,  Daniel  (ed.).  Vamsavali:  History  of  Nepal.  (Trans.,  Munshi 
Shew  Shunker  Singh  and  Pundi  Gunanand.)  Kathmandu:  Nepal 
Antiquated  Book  Publishers,  1972. 


Chapter  2 

Bajracharya,  Deepak.  "Fuel,  Food  or  Forest?  Dilemmas  in  a  Nepali 
Village,"  World  Development  [Oxford],  11,  No.  12,  December 
1983,  1057-74. 

Banister,  Judith,  and  Shy  am  Thapa.  The  Population  Dynamics  of 

Nepal.  (Papers  of  the  East-West  Population  Institute,  No.  78.) 

Honolulu:  East-West  Center,  1981. 
Bishop,  Barry  C .  Karnali  under  Stress:  Livelihood  Strategies  and  Seasonal 

Rhythms  in  a  Changing  Nepal  Himalaya.  (Geography  Research  Paper 

Nos.  228-29.)  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago,  1990. 
Bista,  Dor  Bahadur.  Fatalism  and  Development:  Nepal's  Struggle  for 

Modernization.  Calcutta:  Orient  Longman,  1991. 
Blaikie,  Piers  M.,  and  Harold  Brookfield,  with  contributions  by 

Bryant  Allen.  Land  Degradation  and  Society.  London:  Methuen, 

1987. 

Blaikie,  Piers  M. ,  John  Cameron,  and  David  Seddon.  Nepal  in  Cri- 
sis: Growth  and  Stagnation  at  the  Periphery.  New  York:  Oxford 
University  Press,  1980. 

The  Cambridge  Encyclopedia  of  India,  Pakistan,  Bangladesh,  Sri  Lanka, 
Nepal,  Bhutan  and  the  Maldives.  (Ed.,  Francis  Robinson.)  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1989. 

C  apian,  A.  Patricia.  Priests  and  Cobblers:  A  Study  of  Social  Change  in 
a  Hindu  Village  in  Western  Nepal.  San  Francisco:  Chandler,  1972. 

C apian,  Lionel.  Land  and  Social  Change  in  East  Nepal.  Berkeley: 
University  of  California  Press,  1970. 

 "From  Tribe  to  Peasant?  The  Limbus  and  the  Nepalese 

State."  Journal  of  Peasant  Studies  [London],  18,  No.  2,  January 
1991,  305-21. 

Chaube,  S.K.  (ed.).  The  Himalayas:  Profiles  of  Modernisation  and  Adap- 
tation. New  Delhi:  Sterling,  1985. 

Conway,  Dennis,  and  Nanda  R.  Shrestha.  Causes  and  Consequences 
of  Rural-to-Rural  Migration  in  Nepal.  Bloomington:  Indiana  Univer- 
sity, 1981. 

 "Urban  Growth  and  Urbanization  in  Least-Developed 

Countries:  The  Experience  of  Nepal,"  Asian  Profile  [Hong  Kong], 
8,  No.  5,  October  1980,  477-94. 

Dixit,  Shanta  B.  "Hear  No  AIDS,  See  No  AIDS,  Speak  No 
AIDS,"  Himal  [Lalitpur,  Nepal],  3,  No.  3,  1990,  26-29. 


371 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

The  Encyclopedia  of  Eastern  Philosophy  and  Religion.  (Eds.,  Ingrid 
Fischer-Schreiber,  Franz-Karl  Ehrhard,  Kurt  Friedrichs,  and 
Michael  S.  Diener.)  The  Encyclopedia  of  Eastern  Philosophy  and 
Religion.  Boston:  Shambhala,  1989. 

Fisher,  James  F.  "Education  and  Social  Change  in  Nepal:  An  An- 
thropologist's Assessment,"  Himalayan  Research  Bulletin,  10,  Nos. 
2-3,  1990,  30-34. 

 Sherpas:  Reflections  on  Change  in  Himalayan  Nepal.  Berkeley: 

University  of  California  Press,  1990. 

Furer-Haimendorf,  Christoph  von.  ''Caste  in  the  Multi-Ethnic  So- 
ciety of  Nepal,"  Contributions  to  Indian  Sociology  [Paris],  4,  April 
1960,  12-32. 

 Himalayan  Traders:  Life  in  Highland  Nepal.  London:  Mur- 
ray, 1975. 

Gaige,  Frederick  H.  Regionalism  and  National  Unity  in  Nepal.  Berkeley: 

University  of  California  Press,  1975. 
Gurung,  Harka  B.  Regional  Patterns  of  Migration  in  Nepal.  (Papers 

of  the  East-West  Population  Institute,  0732-0531,  No.  113.) 

Honolulu:  East-West  Center,  September  1989. 
Hagen,  Toni,  Friedrich  Traugott  Wahlen,  and  Walter  Robert  Cor- 

ti.  Nepal:  The  Kingdom  in  the  Himalayas.  (Rev.,  Ewald  Osers; 

trans.,  Britta  M.  Charleston  and  Toni  Hagen.)  Chicago:  Rand 

McNally,  1971. 

Hitchcock,  John  T.  Magars  of  Banyan  Hill.  New  York:  Holt,  Rine- 
hart  &  Winston,  1966. 

Holmes,  Dwight  R.  "Education  Through  Radio  in  Nepal:  Changes 
Within  and  Beyond  the  Classroom,"  Himalayan  Research  Bulle- 
tin, 10,  Nos.  2-3,  1990,  24-29. 

Ives,  J.D.  "The  Theory  of  Himalayan  Environmental  Degrada- 
tion: Its  Validity  and  Application  Challenged  by  Recent 
Research,"  Mountain  Research  and  Development,  7,  No.  3,  August 
1987,  188-99. 

Ives,  Jack  D.,  and  Bruno  Messerli.  The  Himalayan  Dilemma:  Recon- 
ciling Development  and  Conservation.  New  York:  The  United  Na- 
tions University  and  Routledge,  1989. 

Jha,  Sasinath.  Conservation  for  Development  in  Nepal.  New  Delhi:  Na- 
tional Book  Organization,  1990. 

Joshi,  Bhuwan  Lai,  and  Leo  E.  Rose.  Democratic  Innovations  in  Nepal: 
A  Case  Study  of  Political  Acculturation.  Berkeley:  University  of 
California  Press,  1966. 

Kansakar,  Vidya  Bir  Singh.  Effectiveness  of  Planned  Resettlement 
Programme  in  Nepal.  Kathmandu:  Centre  for  Economic  Develop- 
ment and  Administration,  Tribhuvan  University,  1979. 


372 


Bibliography 


 .  Population  Projections  for  Nepal,  1970-2000.  Kathmandu: 

Centre  for  Economic  Development  and  Administration,  Tri- 
bhuvan  University,  May  1980. 

Kaplan,  Paul  F.,  and  Nanda  R.  Shrestha.  "The  Sukumbasi  Move- 
ment in  Nepal:  The  Fire  from  Below,"  Journal  of  Contemporary 
Asia  [London],  12,  No.  2,  April-June  1982,  75-88. 

Karan,  Pradyumna  P.  Nepal:  A  Cultural  and  Physical  Geography.  Lex- 
ington: University  of  Kentucky  Press,  1960. 

Karan,  Pradyumna  P.,  and  Shigeru  Iijima.  "Environmental  Stress 
in  the  Himalaya,"  Geographical  Review,  75,  No.  1,  January  1985, 
71-92. 

Karan,  Pradyumna  P. ,  and  William  M.  Jenkins,  Jr.  The  Himalayan 
Kingdoms:  Bhutan,  Sikkim  and  Nepal.  Princeton,  New  Jersey:  Van 
Nostrand,  1963. 

Karan,  Pradyumna  P.,  and  Cotton  Mather.  "Tourism  and  En- 
vironment in  the  Mount  Everest  Region,"  Geographical  Review, 
75,  No.  1,  January  1985,  93-95. 

Kasaju,  P.K.,  B.D.  Pande,  and  W.M.  Matheson.  "Nepal:  Sys- 
tem of  Education."  Pages  3498-3501  in  Torsten  Husen  and  T. 
Neville  Postlethwaite  (eds.),  The  International  Encyclopedia  of  Edu- 
cation: Research  and  Studies,  6.  Oxford:  Pergamon  Press,  1985. 

Levine,  Nancy  E.  "Women's  Work  and  Infant  Feeding:  A  Case 
from  Rural  Nepal,"  Ethnology,  27,  No.  3,  July  1988,  231-51. 

McDougal,  Charles.  Village  and  Household  Economy  in  Far  Western 
Nepal.  Kathmandu:  Tribhuvan  University  Press,  1986. 

Macfarlane,  Alan.  Resources  and  Population:  A  Study  of  the  Gurungs 
of  Nepal.  (Cambridge  Studies  in  Social  Anthropology,  No.  12.) 
Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1976. 

Mahat,  I.B.S.,  D.M.  Griffin,  andK.R.  Shepherd.  "Human  Im- 
pact of  Some  Forests  of  the  Middle  Hills  of  Nepal  1 :  Forestry 
in  the  Context  of  the  Traditional  Resources  of  the  State,"  Moun- 
tain Research  and  Development,  6,  No.  3,  August  1986,  223-32. 

Mathema,  Padma.  Primary  Health  Care  in  Nepal.  Kathmandu:  Vijaya 
Ram  Mathema,  1987. 

Messerschmidt,  Donald  A.  The  Gurungs  of  Nepal:  Conflict  and  Change 
in  a  Village  Society.  Warminster,  Wiltshire,  United  Kingdom:  Aris 
and  Phillips,  1976. 

Metz,  John  J.  "Conservation  Practices  at  an  Upper  Elevation  Vil- 
lage of  West  Nepal,"  Mountain  Research  and  Development,  80,  No. 
1,  February  1990,  7-15. 

 "Forest-Product  Use  in  Upland  Nepal,"  Geographical 

Review,  80,  No.  3,  July  1990,  279-87. 

Mihaly ,  Eugene  Bramer.  Foreign  Aid  and  Politics  in  Nepal.  New  York: 
Oxford  University  Press,  1965. 


373 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Negi,  Sharad  Singh.  A  Handbook  of  the  Himalaya.  New  Delhi:  In- 
dus, 1990. 

Nepal.  Ministry  of  Health  and  World  Health  Organization.  Country 
Health  Profile:  Nepal  Kathmandu:  1988. 

 Ministry  of  Planning  and  Development.  Draft  Outline  of 

Five-Year  Plan.  Kathmandu:  United  States  Operations  Mission, 
International  Cooperation  Administration,  1953. 

 National  Planning  Commission.  Secretariat.  Central 

Bureau  of  Statistics.  Demographic  Sample  Survey,  1986-87.  (First 
Report.)  Kathmandu:  1987. 

 .  National  Planning  Commission.  Secretariat.  Central 

Bureau  of  Statistics.  National  Sample  Census  of  Agriculture.  Kath- 
mandu: 1985. 

 National  Planning  Commission.  Secretariat.  Central 

Bureau  of  Statistics.  Population  Census,  1981.  Kathmandu:  1984. 

 .  National  Planning  Commission.  Secretariat.  Central 

Bureau  of  Statistics.  Population  Monograph  of  Nepal.  Kathmandu: 
1987. 

.  National  Planning  Commission.  Secretariat.  Central 
Bureau  of  Statistics.  Statistical  Pocket  Book:  Nepal,  1988,  Kathman- 
du: 1988. 

 National  Planning  Commission.  Secretariat.  Central 

Bureau  of  Statistics.  Statistical  Year  Book  of  Nepal,  1989.  Kath- 
mandu: 1989. 

 National  Planning  Commission.  Secretariat.  Central 

Bureau  of  Statistics.  Statistical  Year  Book  of  Nepal,  1991.  Kath- 
mandu: 1991. 

Parker,  Barbara.  "Moral  Economy,  Political  Economy,  and  the 
Culture  of  Entrepreneurship  in  Highland  Nepal,"  Ethnology,  27, 
No.  2,  1988,  181-95. 

Paudel,  N.B.  (comp.).  Nepal  Resettlement  Company:  An  Introduction. 
Pulchowk,  Lalitpur:  Nepal  Resettlement,  1989. 

Poffenberger,  Mark.  Patterns  of  Change  in  the  Nepal  Himalaya.  Del- 
hi: Macmillan,  1980. 

Rana,  Pashupati  Shumshere  J.B.,  and  Kamal  P.  Malia  (eds.).  Nepal 
in  Perspective.  Kathmandu:  Centre  for  Economic  Development 
and  Administration,  Tribhuvan  University,  1973. 

Regmi,  Mahesh  Chandra.  An  Economic  History  of  Nepal,  1846-1901. 
Banaras,  India:  Nath,  1988. 

 Landowner  ship  in  Nepal.  Berkeley:  University  of  California 

Press,  1976. 

 The  State  and  Economic  Surplus:  Production,  Trade,  and  Resource 

Mobilization  in  Early  19th  Century  Nepal.  Banaras,  India:  Nath, 
1984. 


374 


Bibliography 


 A  Study  in  Nepali  Economic  History,  1768-1846.  New  Delhi: 

Manjusri,  1971. 
 Thatched  Huts  and  Stucco  Palaces:  Peasants  and  Landlords  in 

19th  Century  Nepal  New  Delhi:  Vikas,  1978. 
Rose,  Leo  E.,  and  John  T.  Scholz.  Nepal:  Profile  of  a  Himalayan 

Kingdom.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1980. 
Sebaly,  Kim  P.  4 'Nepal."  Pages  904-10  in  George  Thomas  Kuri- 

an  (ed.),  World  Education  Encyclopedia,  2.  New  York:  Facts  on  File, 

1988. 

Seddon,  David.  Nepal:  A  State  of  Poverty.  New  Delhi:  Vikas,  1987. 
Seddon,  David,  (ed.),  with  Piers  M.  Blaikie  and  John  Cameron. 

Peasants  and  Workers  in  Nepal.  Warminster,  Wiltshire,  United 

Kingdom:  Aris  and  Phillips,  1979. 
Shaha,  Rishikesh.  Modern  Nepal:  A  Political  History,  1769-1955.  (2 

vols.)  New  Delhi:  Manohar,  1990. 
Sharma,  Gopi  Nath.  "The  Impact  of  Education  During  the  Rana 

Period  in  Nepal,"  Himalayan  Research  Bulletin,  10,  Nos.  2-3,  1990, 

3-7. 

Sharma,  Pitamber.  Urbanization  in  Nepal.  (Papers  of  the  East-West 
Population  Institute,  No.  110.)  Honolulu:  East-West  Center, 
1989. 

Shreshtha,  Badri  Prasad.  An  Introduction  to  Nepalese  Economy.  Kath- 
mandu:  Ratna  Pustak  Bhandar,  1981. 

Shreshtha,  Badri  Prasad,  and  S.C.  Jain.  Regional  Development  in 
Nepal:  An  Exercise  in  Reality.  New  Delhi:  Development,  1978. 

Shrestha,  Bhumin.  Evaluation  of  Land  Reform  Programme  in  Nepal. 
Kathmandu:  Centre  for  Economic  Development  and  Adminis- 
tration, Tribhuvan  University,  1978. 

Shrestha,  Nanda  R.  "Frontier  Settlement  and  Landlessness  Among 
Hamalayan  Migrants  in  Nepal  Tarai,"  Annals  of  the  Association 
of  American  Geographers,  79,  No.  3,  1989,  370-89. 

 "Human  Relations  and  Primary  Health  Care  Delivery 

in  Rural  Nepal:  The  Case  of  Deurali,"  Professional  Geographer, 
40,  No.  2,  May  1988,  202-13. 

 Landlessness  and  Migration  in  Nepal.  (Westview  Special 

Studies  on  Social,  Political,  and  Economic  Development.)  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1990. 

 "The  Political  Economy  of  Economic  Underdevelopment 

and  External  Migration  in  Nepal,"  Political  Geography  Quarterly 
[Sevenoaks,  Kent,  United  Kingdom],  4,  No.  4,  1985,  289-306. 

 "A  Preliminary  Report  on  Population  and  Land  Resources 

in  Nepal,"  Journal  of Developing  Areas,  16,  No.  2,  January  1982, 
197-212. 

Shrestha,  Nanda  R.,  and  Dennis  Conway.  "Issues  in  Population 


375 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Pressure,  Land  Resettlement,  and  Development:  The  Case  of 

Nepal,"  Studies  in  Comparative  International  Development,  20,  No. 

1,  Spring  1985,  55-82. 
Sill,  Michael,  and  John  Kirkby.  The  Atlas  of  Nepal  in  the  Modern 

World.  London:  Earthscan,  1991. 
Stone,  Linda.  '  'Cultural  Crossroads  of  Community  Participation 

in  Development:  A  Case  from  Nepal,"  Human  Organization,  48, 

No.  3,  Fall  1989,  206-13. 
Tuker,  Francis  Ivan  Simms.  Gorkha:  The  Story  of  the  Gurkhas  of  Nepal. 

London:  Constable,  1957. 
United  States.  Department  of  the  Interior.  Division  of  Geography. 

Preliminary  NIS  Gazetteer:  India,  I:  Bhutan,  French  India,  Jammu  and 

Kashmir,  Nepal,  Portuguese  India,  and  India  A-J.  Washington:  April 

1952. 

 .  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  International  Narcotics 

Matters.  International  Narcotics  Control  Strategy  Report.  Washing- 
ton: March  1990. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  International  Narcotics 

Matters.  International  Narcotics  Control  Strategy  Report.  Washing- 
ton: March  1991. 

Wood,  Hugh  B.,  and  Knall,  Bruno.  "Educational  Planning  in 
Nepal  and  Its  Economic  Implications."  (Draft  Report  of  the 
UNESCO  Commission  to  Nepal.)  Kathmandu:  May  1962. 

World  Bank.  Nepal:  Policies  for  Improving  Growth  and  Alleviating  Poverty. 
(Report  No.  7418-NEP.)  Washington:  1988. 

 Nepal:  Policies  for  Improving  Growth  and  Alleviating  Poverty. 

(Report  No.  0253-2123.)  Washington:  1989. 

Worth,  Robert  M.,  and  Narayan  K.  Shah,  Nepal  Health  Survey, 
1965-66.  Honolulu:  University  of  Hawaii  Press,  1969. 

Zaman,  M.A.  Evaluation  of  Land  Reform  in  Nepal,  Based  on  the  Work 
of  M.A.  Zaman,  Land  Reform  Evaluation  Adviser.  Kathmandu: 
Ministry  of  Land  Reform,  1973. 

Zurick,  David.  "Resource  Needs  and  Land  Stress  in  Rapti  Zone, 
Nepal,"  Professional  Geographer,  40,  No.  4,  November  1988, 
428-43. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodical  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Nepal  Press  Digest  [Kathmandu], 
1989-91.) 

Chapter  3 

Asia  Yearbook,  1988.  Hong  Kong:  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review, 
1988. 


376 


Bibliography 


Asia  Yearbook,  1991.  Hong  Kong:  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review, 
1991. 

Blaikie,  Piers  M.,  John  Cameron,  and  David  Seddon.  Nepal  in  Cri- 
sis: Growth  and  Stagnation  at  the  Periphery.  New  York:  Oxford 
University  Press,  1980. 

Europa  World  Year  Book,  1990,  2.  London:  Europa,  1990. 

Far  East  and  Australasia,  1990.  London:  Europa,  1990. 

Gaige,  Frederick  H.  Regionalism  and  National  Unity  in  Nepal.  Berkeley: 
University  of  California  Press,  1975. 

Graphics  Rachana.  Nepal  Road  Network,  1985:  Existing,  under  Con- 
struction, Planned,  and  Proposed.  Kathmandu:  1985. 

Hay,  Keith  A  J.  "Aid  to  South  Asia  in  the  1980s,"  Journal  of  De- 
veloping Societies  [Leiden,  Netherlands],  7,  Fasc.  2,  July-October 
1991,  83-92. 

International  Monetary  Fund.  Financial  Statistics,  1989.  Washing- 
ton: 1989. 

Joshi,  Bhuwan  Lai,  and  Leo  E.  Rose.  Democratic  Innovations  in  Nepal: 
A  Case  Study  of  Political  Acculturation.  Berkeley:  University  of 
California  Press,  1966. 

Khadka,  Narayan.  "The  Political  Economy  of  the  Food  Crisis  in 
Nepal,"  Asian  Survey,  25,  No.  9,  September  1985,  943-62. 

Mihaly,  Eugene  Bramer.  Foreign  Aid  and  Politics  in  Nepal.  New  York: 
Oxford  University  Press,  1965. 

Nepal.  Ministry  of  Finance.  Current  Economic  Situation.  (Unofficial 
translation.)  Kathmandu:  May  25,  1990. 

 .  Ministry  of  Finance.  Economic  Survey,  1987-88.  Kathman- 
du: 1988. 

 Ministry  of  Finance.  Economic  Survey,  1989-90.  Kathman- 
du: 1990. 

 Ministry  of  Finance.  Speech  by  Finance  Minister.  Kathman- 
du: 1990. 

 National  Planning  Commission.  Secretariat.  Basic  Princi- 
ples of  the  Seventh  Plan.  Kathmandu:  1984. 

 National  Planning  Commission.  Secretariat.  Central 

Bureau  of  Statistics.  Statistical  Pocket  Book:  Nepal,  1990.  Kathman- 
du: 1990. 

 National  Planning  Commission.  Secretariat.  Central  Bureau 

of  Statistics.  Statistical  Year  Book  of  Nepal,  1991.  Kathmandu:  1991. 

Nepal  Rastra  Bank.  Research  Department.  Main  Economic  Indica- 
tors. Kathmandu:  February- April  1991. 

Nugent,  Nicholas.  "Nepal."  Pages  135-37  in  The  Asia  &  Pacific 
Review,  1990.  The  Economic  and  Business  Report.  Saffron  Walden, 
Essex,  United  Kingdom:  World  of  Information,  1990. 


377 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Pant,  Yadav  Prasad.  Problems  in  Fiscal  and  Monetary  Policy:  A  Case 

Study  of  Nepal  London:  Hurst,  1970. 
Regmi,  Mahesh  Chandra.  An  Economic  History  of  Nepal,  1846-1901. 

Banaras,  India:  Nath,  1988. 
 Land  Tenure  and  Taxation  in  Nepal.  Kathmandu:  Ratna 

Pustak  Bhandar,  1978. 
 Readings  in  Nepal  Economic  History.  Banaras,  India:  Kishor 

Vidya  Niketan,  1979. 
 The  State  and  Economic  Surplus:  Production,  Trade,  and  Resource 

Mobilization  in  Early  19th  Century  Nepal.  Banaras,  India:  Nath, 

1984. 

-  A  Study  in  Nepali  Economic  History,  1768-1846.  New  Delhi: 
Manjusri,  1971. 

Rose,  Leo  E.  Nepal:  Strategy  for  Survival.  Berkeley:  University  of 
California  Press,  1971. 

Shaha,  Rishikesh.  Nepali  Politics:  Restrospect  and  Prospect.  Delhi:  Ox- 
ford University  Press,  1978. 

Sharma,  Pitamber.  Urbanization  in  Nepal.  (Papers  of  the  East-West 
Population  Institute,  No.  110.)  Honolulu:  East-West  Center, 
1989. 

Shreshtha,  Badri  Prasad.  The  Economy  of  Nepal.  Bombay:  Vora, 
1967. 

 Nepalese  Economy  in  Retrospect  and  Prospect.  Kathmandu: 

Himalayan  Booksellers,  1990. 

Shreshtha,  Chandra  M.,  and  Konstadinos  A.  Mattas.  "Econom- 
ic Growth  Through  Development  Planning:  Evidence  from 
Nepal,"  Journal  of  Developing  Societies  [Leiden,  Netherlands],  6, 
Fasc.  2,  July-October  1990,  229-40. 

Shrestha,  Babu  Ram.  Managing  External  Assistance  in  Nepal.  Kath- 
mandu: Jamuna  Shrestha,  1990. 

Statesman's  Yearbook,  1990-1991.  (Ed.,  John  Paxton.)  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1990. 

United  States.  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook, 
1990.  Washington:  1990. 

 Department  of  Interior.  Bureau  of  Mines.  Mineral  Indus- 
tries of  the  Far  East  and  South  Asia,  1988.  Washington:  1988. 

 Department  of  State.  Background  Notes:  Nepal.  Washing- 
ton: August  1990. 

Uppal,  Joginder  S.  Economic  Development  in  South  Asia.  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1977. 

Wallace,  Michael  B.  "Forest  Degradation  in  Nepal:  Institutional 
Context  and  Policy  Alternatives."  (Research  Report  Series,  No. 
6.)  Washington:  United  States  Agency  for  International  Develop- 
ment, March  1988. 


378 


Bibliography 


World  Bank.  Trends  in  Developing  Economies,  1990.  Washington:  Oc- 
tober 1990. 

 .  World  Development  Report,  1989.  New  York:  Oxford  Univer- 
sity Press,  1989. 

 World  Development  Report,  1990.  New  York:  Oxford  Univer- 
sity Press,  1990. 
World  Radio  TV  Handbook,  1991,  45.  (Ed.,  Andrew  G.  Sennitt.) 
Amsterdam:  Billboard  A.G.,  1990. 

Chapter  4 

Agrawal,  Hem  Narayan.  The  Administrative  System  of  Nepal.  New 

Delhi:  Vikas,  1976. 
Amnesty  International.  Nepal:  A  Pattern  of  Human  Rights  Violations. 

London:  1987. 

Asia  Watch  Committee,  Human  Rights  Watch.  Human  Rights  Vio- 
lations in  Nepal.  New  York:  1989. 

Asia  Yearbook,  1991.  Hong  Kong:  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review, 
1991. 

Banskota,  N.P.  "Nepal:  Toward  Regional  Economic  Cooperation 

in  South  Asia,"  Asian  Survey,  21,  No.  3,  March  1981,  342-54. 
Baraith,  Roop  Singh.  Transit  Politics  in  South  Asia:  A  Case  Study  of 

Nepal.  Jaipur,  India:  Aalekh,  1989. 
Baral,  L.S.  "Nepal  and  Non- Alignment,"  International  Studies  [New 

Delhi],  20,  Nos.  1-2,  January-June  1981,  257-72. 
Baral,  Lok  Raj.  "Nepal  1978:  Year  of  Hopes  and  Confessions," 

Asian  Survey,  19,  No.  2,  February  1979,  198-204. 
 "Nepal  in  1986:  Problems  of  Political  Management," 

Asian  Survey,  27,  No.  2,  February  1987,  173-81. 
 "Nepal  in  1987:  Politics  Without  Power,"  Asian  Survey, 

28,  No.  2,  February  1988,  172-79. 
 Opposition  Politics  in  Nepal.  Columbia,  Missouri:  South  Asia 

Books,  1978. 

 .  "Party-Like  Institutions  in  'Partyless'  Polities:  The  GVNC 

in  Nepal,"  Asian  Survey,  16,  No.  7,  July  1976,  672-81. 

Baxter,  Craig,  Yogendra  K.  Malik,  Charles  H.  Kennedy,  and 
Robert  C.  Oberst.  Government  and  Politics  in  South  Asia.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 

Chaturvedi,  Shailendra  Kumar.  Indo-Nepal  Relations  in  Linkage  Per- 
spective. Delhi:  B.R.  Publishing,  1990. 

Chauhan,  R.S.  The  Political  Development  in  Nepal  1950-70:  Conflict 
Between  Tradition  and  Modernity.  New  Delhi:  Associated,  1971. 


379 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Das,  RabindraK.  Nepal  and  Its  Neighbors .  Banaras,  India:  Konark, 
1986. 

Dharamdasani,  M.D.  "Nepal:  Political  Development  of  a  Moun- 
tain Kingdom,"  China  Report  [Delhi],  17,  No.  3,  May-June  1980, 
35-43. 

Forum  for  Protection  of  Human  Rights.  FOPHUR  &  Pro-Democracy 
Movement.  Lalitpur,  Nepal:  1990. 

Fukui,  Haruhiro  (ed.).  Political  Parties  of  Asia  and  the  Pacific.  (The 
Greenwood  Historical  Encyclopedia  of  the  World's  Political  Par- 
ties, 2.  Laos — Western  Samoa.)  Westport,  Connecticut:  Green- 
wood Press,  1985. 

Gaige,  Frederick  H.  Regionalism  and  National  Unity  in  Nepal.  Berkeley: 
University  of  California  Press,  1975. 

Ghoble,  T.R.  China-Nepal  Relations  and  India.  New  Delhi:  Deep  and 
Deep,  1986. 

Heck,  Douglas.  "Nepal  in  1980:  The  Year  of  the  Referendum," 
Asian  Survey,  21,  No.  2,  February  1981,  181-87. 

Jayaraman,  T.K.,  and  O.L.  Shrestha.  "Some  Trade  Problems  of 
Landlocked  Nepal,"  Asian  Survey,  16,  No.  12,  December  1976, 
1113-23. 

Jha,  Shankar  Kumar.  Indo- Nepal  Relations.  New  Delhi:  Archives 
Books,  1989. 

Joshi,  Nanda  Lau.  Evolution  of  Public  Administration  in  Nepal.  Kath- 
mandu:  Centre  for  Economic  Development  and  Administration, 
Tribhuvan  University,  1973. 

Khadka,  Narayan.  "Crisis  in  Nepal's  Partyless  Panchayat  System: 
The  Case  for  More  Democracy,"  Pacific  Affairs  [Vancouver], 
59,  No.  3,  Fall  1986,  429-54. 

Khanal,  Y.N.  "Nepal  in  1984:  A  Year  of  Complacence,"  Asian 
Survey,  25,  No.  2,  February  1985,  180-86. 

Koirala,  Niranjan.  "Nepal  in  1989:  A  Very  Difficult  Year,"  Asian 
Survey,  30,  No.  2,  February  1990,  136-43. 

 "Nepal  in  1990:  End  of  an  Era,"  Asian  Survey,  31,  No. 

2,  February  1991,  134-39. 

Lohani,  Prakashe.  "Nepal  1975:  Not  a  Normal  Year,"  Asian  Sur- 
vey, 16,  No.  2,  February  1976,  140-45. 

Mojumdar,  Kanchanmoy.  Political  Relations  Between  India  and  Nepal 
1877-1923.  New  Delhi:  Munshiram  Manoharlal,  1973. 

Muni,  S.D.  Foreign  Policy  of  Nepal.  New  Delhi:  National,  1973. 

Panday,  Devendra  Raj.  "Nepal  in  1981:  Stagnation  Amidst 
Change,"  Asian  Survey,  22,  No.  2,  February  1982,  155-62. 

Parmanand.  The  Nepali  Congress  since  Its  Inception:  A  Critical  Assess- 
ment. Delhi:  B.R.  Publishing,  1982. 


380 


Bibliography 


Rahul ,  Ram .  ' '  Making  of  Modern  Nepal , ' '  International  Studies,  1 6 , 
No.  1 ,  January-March  1977,  1-15. 

Ramakant.  Nepal-China  and  India.  New  Delhi:  Abhinav,  1976. 

Rose,  Leo  E.  Nepal:  Strategy  for  Survival.  Berkeley:  University  of 
California  Press,  1971. 

Rose,  Leo  E.,  and  Margaret  W.  Fisher.  The  Politics  of  Nepal:  Per- 
sistence and  Change  in  an  Asian  Monarchy.  Ithaca:  Cornell  Univer- 
sity Press,  1970. 

Rose,  Leo  E.,  and  John  T.  Scholz.  Nepal:  Profile  of  a  Himalayan 
Kingdom.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1980. 

Scholz,  John  T.  "Nepal  in  1977:  Political  Discipline  or  Human 
Rights,"  Asian  Survey,  18,  No.  2,  February  1978,  135-41. 

 "Nepal  in  1976:  Problems  with  India  Threaten  Birendra's 

New  Order,"  Asian  Survey,  17,  No.  2,  February  1977,  201-7. 

Shah,  Sukhdev.  "Nepal's  Economic  Development:  Problems  and 
Prospects,"  Asian  Survey,  28,  No.  9,  September  1988,  945-57. 

Shaha,  Rishikesh.  "Democracy's  Second  Chance  in  Nepal,"  Com- 
monwealth Journal  of  International  Affairs,  No.  277,  January  1980, 
65-73. 

 Essays  in  the  Practice  of  Government  in  Nepal.  New  Delhi: 

Manohar,  1982. 

 Nepali  Politics:  Retrospect  and  Prospect.  Delhi:  Oxford  Univer- 
sity Press,  1978. 

 "The  1986  Elections  in  Nepal:  Implications  for  the  Fu- 
ture," International  Studies,  26,  No.  1 ,  January-March  1989,  1-14. 

 Politics  in  Nepal,  1980-1990:  Referendum,  Stalemate,  and  Tri- 
umph of  People  Power.  New  Delhi:  Manohar,  1990. 

 .  Three  Decades  and  Two  Kings  (1960-90):  Eclipse  of  Nepal's 

Partyless  Monarchic  Rule.  New  Delhi:  Sterling,  1990. 

Sharma,  Kul  Shekhar.  "Nepal  in  1983:  Another  Year  of  Confu- 
sion and  Lack  of  Direction,"  Asian  Survey,  24,  No.  2,  February 
1984,  257-62. 

Sharma,  Kunjar  M.  "Nepal."  In  Albert  P.  Blaustein  and  Gis- 
bert  H.  Flanz  (eds.).  Constitutions  of  the  Countries  of  the  World,  16. 
Dobbs  Ferry,  New  York:  Oceana,  June  1979. 

Sharma,  Kunjar  M.,  and  Mark  J.  Plotkin,  "Nepal."  In  Albert 
P.  Blaustein  and  Gisbert  H.  Flanz  (eds.).  Constitutions  of  the  Coun- 
tries of  the  World,  12.  Dobbs  Ferry,  New  York:  Oceana,  Febru- 
ary 1985. 

Shrestha,  Mangal  Krishna.  Public  Administration  in  Nepal.  Kathman- 
du:  Educational  Enterprise,  1975. 

Tiwari,  Chitra  Krishna.  "Domestic  Determinants  of  Foreign  Policy 
in  South  Asia:  The  Case  of  Nepal,"  Journal  of  South  Asian  and 
Middle  Eastern  Studies,  10,  No.  3,  Spring  1987,  62-77. 


381 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Tyagi,  Sushila.  Indo-Nepalese  Relations,  1858-1914.  Delhi:  D.K.  Pub- 
lishing, 1974. 

United  States.  Congress.  99th,  1st  Session.  Senate.  Committee  on 
Foreign  Relations.  South  Asia  and  U.S.  Interests:  A  Report  to  the  Com- 
mittee on  Foreign  Relations,  United  States  Senate.  Washington:  GPO, 
1985. 

Uprety,  Tulsi  P.  "Nepal  in  1982:  Panchayat  Leadership  in  Cri- 
sis," Asian  Survey,  23,  No.  2,  February  1983,  143-49. 

Yearbook  on  International  Communist  Affairs .  (Eds.,  Richard  F.  Staar, 
Milorad  M.  Drachkovitch,  and  Lewis  H.  Gann.)  Stanford, 
California:  Hoover  Institution,  1991. 

"  'Zone  of  Peace':  Nepal's  Quest  for  Identity,"  China  Report  [Del- 
hi], 15,  No.  5,  September-October  1979,  13-19. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  also  were  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Asian  Recorder  [New  Delhi],  1986-91; 
Asian  Survey,  1989-91;  JPRS  Report:  Near  East  and  South  Asia, 
1986-91;  New  York  Times,  1989-91;  Rising  Nepal  [Kathmandu], 
1989-91;  and  Washington  Post,  1989-91.) 

Chapter  5 

Adshead,  Robin.  Gurkha:  The  Legendary  Solider.  Sinagpore:  Asia  Pa- 
cific Press,  1970. 

Ahmar,  Moonis.  Superpower  Rivalry  in  the  Indian  Ocean  since  the  With- 
drawal of  Great  Britain.  Karachi:  Area  Study  Centre  for  Europe, 
University  of  Karachi,  1986. 

Amnesty  International.  Nepal:  A  Pattern  of  Human  Rights  Violations. 
London:  1987. 

Baral,  Lok  Raj.  Nepal's  Politics  of  Referendum:  A  Study  of  Groups,  Per- 
sonalities, and  Trends.  New  Delhi:  Vikas,  1983. 

Bhasin,  A.S.  (ed.).  Documents  on  Nepal's  Relations  with  India  and  China, 

1949-66.  Bombay:  Academic  Books,  1970. 
Bishop,  Edward.  Better  to  Die:  The  Story  of  the  Gurkhas.  London: 
New  English  Library,  1976. 

Caplan,  Lionel.  "  'Bravest  of  the  Brave':  Representations  of 'The 
Gurkha'  in  British  Military  Writings,"  Modern  Asian  Studies  [Lon- 
don], 25,  No.  3,  July  1991,  571-97. 

Chant,  Christopher.  Gurkha:  The  Illustrated  History  of  an  Elite  Fight- 
ing Force.  Poole,  Dorset,  United  Kingdom:  Blandford,  1985. 

Cohen,  Stephen  P.  The  Indian  Army:  Its  Contribution  to  the  Develop- 
ment of  a  Nation.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1971 . 

Cross,  J. P.  In  Gurkha  Company:  The  British  Army  Gurkhas,  1948  to 
the  Present.  London:  Arms  and  Armour,  1986. 


382 


Bibliography 


Enloe,  Cynthia  H.  Ethnic  Soldiers:  State  Security  in  Divided  Societies. 
Harmondsworth,  United  Kingdom:  Penguin,  1980. 

Farwell,  Byron.  The  Gurkhas.  New  York:  Norton,  1984. 

Forum  for  Protection  of  Human  Rights.  FOPHUR  &  Pro-Democracy 
Movement.  Lalitpur,  Nepal:  1990. 

Harrison,  Selig  S.,  and  K.  Subrahmanyam  (eds.).  Superpower  Rivalry 
in  the  Indian  Ocean.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1989. 

Heitzman,  James,  and  Robert  L.  Worden  (eds.).  Bangladesh:  A 
Country  Study.  Washington:  GPO,  1989. 

Koirala,  Niranjan.  "Nepal  in  1989:  A  Very  Difficult  Year,"  Asian 
Survey,  30,  No.  2,  February  1990,  136-43. 

 "Nepal  in  1990:  End  of  an  Era,"  Asian  Survey,  31,  No. 

2,  February  1991,  134-39. 

Leonard,  R.G.  Nepal  and  the  Gurkhas.  London:  Her  Majesty's  Sta- 
tionery Office,  1965. 

Masters,  John.  Bugles  and  a  Tiger:  A  Volume  of  Autobiography.  New 
York:  Viking  Press,  1956.  " 

The  Military  Balance,  1988-1989.  London:  International  Institute 
for  Strategic  Studies,  1988. 

The  Military  Balance,  1989-1990.  London:  International  Institute 
for  Strategic  Studies,  1989. 

The  Military  Balance,  1990-1991.  London:  International  Institute 
for  Strategic  Studies,  1990. 

Mojumdar,  Kanchanmoy.  Anglo- Nepalese  Relations  in  the  Nineteenth 
Century.  Calcutta:  Firma  K.L.  Mukhopadhyay,  1973. 

Pemble,  John.  The  Invasion  of  Nepal:  John  Company  at  War.  Oxford: 
Oxford  University  Press,  1971. 

Proudfoot,  C.L.  Flash  of  the  Khukri:  History  of  the  3rd  Gorkha  Rifles, 
1947  to  1980.  New  Delhi:  Vision  Books,  1984. 

Rose,  Leo  E.  Nepal:  Strategy  for  Survival.  Berkeley:  University  of 
California  Press,  1971. 

Rose,  Leo  E.,  and  Margaret  W.  Fisher.  The  Politics  of  Nepal:  Per- 
sistence and  Change  in  an  Asian  Monarchy.  Ithaca:  Cornell  Univer- 
sity Press,  1970. 

Sheil-Small,  D.  Green  Shadows:  A  Gurkha  Story.  London:  Kimber, 
1982. 

Tuker,  Francis  Ivan  Simms.  Gorkha:  The  Story  of  the  Gurkhas  of  Nepal. 
London:  Constable,  1957. 

United  States.  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World  Mili- 
tary Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1989.  Washington:  GPO,  Oc- 
tober 1990. 

 Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World  Military 

Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1990.  Washington:  GPO,  Novem- 
ber 1991. 


383 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


 .  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  Directorate  of  Intelligence. 

Handbook  of  Economic  Statistics.  Washington:  GPO,  1989. 

 Central  Intelligence  Agency.  Directorate  of  Intelligence. 

Handbook  of  Economic  Statistics.  Washington:  GPO,  1990. 

 Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1990.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress,  102d, 
1st  Session,  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations,  and  House 
of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  February  1991. 

Woodward,  David.  Armies  of  the  World,  1854-1914.  New  York:  Put- 
nam, 1978. 

Yearbook  on  International  Communist  Affairs .  (Eds.,  Richard  F.  Staar, 
Milorad  M.  Drachkovitch,  and  Lewis  H.  Gann.)  Stanford, 
California:  Hoover  Institution,  1991. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  also  were  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Asian  Defence  Journal  [Kuala  Lum- 
pur], 1985-91;  Asian  Survey,  1985-91;  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 
[Hong  Kong],  19&5-91;  Independent  [Kathmandu],  1989-91;  Jane's 
Defence  Weekly  [London],  1989-91;  and  Rising  Nepal  [Kathmandu], 
1989-91.) 

Chapter  6 

Adams,  Barbara  S.  Traditional  Bhutanese  Textiles.  Bangkok:  White 
Orchard  Press,  1984. 

Adams,  Jonathan.  "Bhutan:  Right  From  the  Start,"  World  Wild- 
life Fund  Letter,  No.  6,  1989,  1-8. 

"All  the  King's  Men,"  Asiaweek  [Hong  Kong],  16,  No.  46,  Novem- 
ber 16,  1990,  25. 

Amnesty  International  Report,  1991.  New  York:  Amnesty  International, 
1991. 

Aris,  Michael.  Bhutan:  The  Early  History  of  a  Himalayan  Kingdom. 
Warminister,  Wiltshire,  United  Kingdom:  Aris  and  Phillips, 
1979. 

Asia  Yearbook,  1991.  Hong  Kong:  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review, 
1990. 

Avtar,  R.  "Bhutan— A  Geopolitical  Survey."  Pages  193-200  in 
Gautam  Sharma  and  K.S.  Nagar  (eds.),  India's  Northern  Securi- 
ty: Including  China,  Nepal,  and  Bhutan.  New  Delhi:  Reliance,  1986. 

Awasthi,  J.D.  Agricultural  Development  of  Himalayas  with  Special  Refer- 
ence to  Bhutan.  (Centre  for  Himalayan  Studies,  Special  Lectures, 
No.  4.)  Raja  Rammohunpur,  India:  University  of  North  Ben- 
gal, 1984. 


384 


Bibliography 


"Bank  Loans  Total  $750  Million  in  the  Third  Quarter."  Asian  De- 
velopment Bank  Quarterly  Review  [Manila],  QR-4-90,  October  1990, 
14. 

Bank  of  Bhutan.  Annual  Report  (annuals  1970-84).  Thimphu: 
1970-84. 

Baraith,  Roop  Singh.  Transit  Politics  in  South  Asia:  A  Case  Study  of 
Nepal.  Jaipur,  India:  Aalekh,  1989. 

Bhattacharya,  S.S.  "Planning  Strategy  in  Bhutan."  Pages  210-28 
in  S.K.  Chaube  (ed.),  The  Himalayas:  Profiles  of  Modernization  and 
Adaptation.  New  Delhi:  Sterling,  1985. 

Bhattacharyya,  Anima.  "Human  Ecology  in  Bhutan  and  Modern- 
izing Trends."  Pages  17-25  in  S.K.  Chaube  (ed.),  The  Hima- 
layas: Profiles  of  Modernization  and  Adaptation.  New  Delhi:  Sterling, 
1985. 

Bhattacharyya,  Dilip.  Bhutan:  The  Himalayan  Paradise.  New  Delhi: 
Oxford  and  IBH,  1975. 

Bhutan.  Department  of  Education.  Dzongkha  Reader.  (4  vols.)  Thim- 
phu: Royal  Government  of  Bhutan  Press,  1979. 

 Department  of  Education.  Text  Book  Division.  Dzongkha 

Dictionary.  Thimphu:  1986. 

 Department  of  Trade  and  Commerce.  Trade  Information 

Centre.  Bhutan,  Trade  and  Industry  Aspects:  A  Bibliography.  Thim- 
phu: 1984. 

 Ministry  for  Communications  and  Tourism.  Visitors'  Guide 

to  the  Kingdom  of  Bhutan.  Thimpu:  July  1983. 

 Planning  Commission.  Royal  Government  of  Bhutan  Fifth  Plan, 

1981-1987:  Main  Document.  Thimphu:  1982. 

 Planning  Commission.  Sixth  Five-Year  Plan,  1987-92. 

Thimphu:  1987. 

 Planning  Commission.  Central  Statistical  Office.  Statisti- 
cal Yearbook  of  Bhutan,  1989.  Thimphu:  May  1990. 

 Sherubtse  College.  Workshop  on  Environmental  Studies. 

Bhutan  and  Its  Natural  Resources.  New  Delhi:  Vikas,  1991. 

Bhutan  Tourism  Corporation.  Bhutan.  Thimpu:  1986. 

Bhutan  and  United  Nations  Development  Programme.  Report  of 
the  Workshop  on  the  Evaluation  and  Planning  of  Human  Resources  De- 
velopment, Thimphu,  May  2 7 -June  2,  1985.  Thimphu:  1985. 

"Bhutan:  Democracy  Calls,"  Asiaweek  [Hong  Kong],  16,  No.  37, 
September  14,  1990,  38. 

"Bhutan  Plans  to  Double  Tourist  Visas,"  New  York  Times,  Janu- 
ary 6,  1991,  3. 

Bladen,  W.A.  "Patterns  of  Relationship  Between  Land  and 
Resources  and  Population  in  Bhutan,"  Asian  Profile  [Hong 
Kong],  11,  No.  4,  August  1983,  411-18. 


385 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Bunting,  Bruce  W.  " Bhutan:  Kingdom  in  the  Clouds,"  National 
Geographic,  179,  No.  5,  May  1991,  79-101. 

The  Cambridge  Encyclopedia  of  India,  Pakistan,  Bangladesh,  Sri  Lanka, 
Nepal,  Bhutan  and  the  Maldives.  (Ed.,  Francis  Robinson.)  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1989. 

Chakravarti,  Balaram.  A  Cultural  History  of  Bhutan.  Chittaranjan, 
West  Bengal,  India:  Hilltop,  1979. 

 "The  Life  Style  and  Customs  of  the  Bhutanese  People." 

Pages  41-48  in  S.M.  Dubey,  P.K.  Bordoloi,  and  B.N.  Borthakur 
(eds.),  Family,  Marriage,  and  Social  Change  on  the  Indian  Fringe.  New 
Delhi:  Cosmo,  1980. 

Chaube,  S.K.  (ed.).  The  Himalayas:  Profiles  of  Modernization  and  Adap- 
tation. New  Delhi:  Sterling,  1985. 

Clad,  James.  "The  King  Speaks  Out:  Monarch  Stresses  Dialogue 
to  Resolve  Conflict,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong], 
150,  No.  51,  December  20,  1990,  26. 

 "The  Kukri's  Edge:  Nepali  Influx  Threatens  the  Hermit 

Kingdom,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  150,  No. 
51,  December  20,  1990,  22-26. 

Das,  B.S.  "Bhutan."  Pages  299-308  in  U.S.  Bajpai  (ed.),  India 
and  Its  Neighborhood.  New  Delhi:  Lancer  International  in  associ- 
ation with  India  International  Centre,  1986. 

 "Economic  Development  and  Social  Changes  in  Bhutan." 

Pages  82-99  in  Urmila  Phadnis,  S.D.  Muni,  and  Kalim  Bahadur 
(eds.),  Domestic  Conflicts  in  South  Asia.  New  Delhi:  South  Asian 
Publishers,  1986.  " 

Das,  Nirmala.  The  Dragon  Country:  The  General  History  of  Bhutan. 
Bombay:  Orient  Longman,  1974. 

Davies,  Derek.  "Coups,  Kings,  and  Castles  in  the  Sky,"  Far  Eastern 
Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  84,  No.  23,  June  10,  1974,  26-27. 

Dhakal,  Deo  Narayan  S.  "Hydropower  Development  in  Bhutan: 
An  Analytical  Framework  for  Evaluating  Prospects  and  Strate- 
gy." (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Colorado  School  of  Mines:  1990,  DAI 
51/03a. 

Dogra,  Ramesh  C.  (comp.).  Bhutan.  (World  Bibliographical  Se- 
ries, No.  116.)  Santa  Barbara,  California:  Clio,  1991. 

Dorji,  Chenkhap.  "Forestry  in  Himalayan  Bhutan,"  Unasylva 
[Rome],  38,  1,  1986  (151),  46-51. 

Dorji,  Dasho  Rigzon.  A  Brief  Religious,  Cultural,  and  Secular  History 
of  Bhutan.  New  York:  Asia  Society  Galleries,  1990. 

Dorji,  Rigzin.  Forms  of  Address  in  Bhutan.  New  Delhi:  Royal  Bhu- 
tan Mission,  1976. 

Dowman,  Keith,  and  Sonam  Paljor  (trans.).  The  Divine  Madman: 
The  Sublime  Life  and  Songs  of  Drukpa  Kunley.  London:  Rider,  1980. 


386 


Bibliography 


Drukpa,  Jamba  Tsheten.  "The  Colombo  Plan  and  Bhutan,"  Druk 
Losel  [Thimphu],  2,  Nos.  2-3,  August- November  1980,  4-8. 
 "Pisciculture  in  Bhutan,"  Druk  Losel  [Thimphu],  2,  No. 

4,  February  1981  and  3,  No.  1,  May  1981,  12-13. 

Dutt,  Srikant.  "Bhutan's  International  Position,"  International 

Studies  [Delhi],  20,  Nos.  3-4,  July-December  1981,  601-23. 
 "Scholarship  on  Bhutan,"  China  Report  [Delhi],  17,  No. 

5,  September-October  1981,  58-62. 

Elahi,  Mahmood-i.  "From  Confrontation  to  Cooperation:  Emerg- 
ing Regionalism  in  South  Asia,"  Asian  Profile  [Hong  Kong],  14, 
No.  6,  December  1986,  541-56. 

Encyclopedia  of  Asian  History  (4  vols.).  (Ed.,  Ainslee  T.  Embree.) 
New  York:  Scribner's,  1988. 

The  Encyclopedia  of  Eastern  Philosophy  and  Religion.  (Eds.,  Ingrid 
Fischer- Schreiber,  Frans-Karl  Ehrhard,  Kurt  Friedrichs,  and 
Michael  S.  Diener.)  Boston:  Shambhala,  1989. 

Europa  World  Year  Book,  1990.  London:  Europa,  1990. 

The  Far  East  and  Australasia,  1990.  (21st.  ed.)  London:  Europa,  1989. 

Fischer,  Fritz.  Bhutan:  The  Importance  of  the  Forests  for  a  Continuous 
Development  of  Human  Ecology  in  High  Mountain  Conditions.  (Trans. , 
A.  Huber.)  Zurich:  Forest  Consult,  1976. 

Frey,  Kathleen.  "Studies  in  Bhutanese  History  Dealing  with  the 
Structural  Organization  of  the  Bhutanese  Theocracy,"  Tibetan 
Review  [New  Delhi],  18,  No.  5,  May  1983,  15-22. 

Gansser,  Augusto.  Geology  of  the  Bhutan  Himalayas.  Basel,  Switzer- 
land: Birkhauser  Verlag,  1983. 

Ghosh,  Udipto.  Bhutan's  Economic  Development:  Objects,  Strategies  and 
Problems.  (Centre  for  Himalayan  Studies,  Special  Lectures,  No. 
3.)  Raja  Rammohunpur,  India:  University  of  North  Bengal, 
1984. 

Gupta,  Shantiswarup.  British  Relations  with  Bhutan.  Jaipur,  India: 
Panchsheel  Prakashan,  1974. 

Gurney,  Gene.  Kingdoms  of  Asia,  the  Middle  East,  and  Africa:  An  Il- 
lustrated Encyclopedia  of  Ruling  Monarchs  from  Ancient  Times  to  the 
Present.  New  York:  Crown,  1986. 

Hasrat,  Bikrama  Jit.  History  of  Bhutan:  Land  of  the  Peaceful  Dragon. 
Thimphu:  Education  Department,  Royal  Government  of  Bhu- 
tan, 1980. 

"India's  Aid  to  Bhutan,"  South  Asian  Studies  [Jaipur,  India],  18, 

No.  1,  January-June  1983,  75-84. 
India.  Botanical  Survey  of  India.  Records  of  the  Botanical  Survey  of 

India:  Materials  for  the  Flora  of  Bhutan,  20,  No.  2.  Calcutta:  1973. 
International  Labour  Organisation.  Bhutan:  Project  Findings  and 

Recommendations:  Royal  Bhutan  Polytechnic,  Deothang.  (BHU/7 2/003.) 


387 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Geneva:  United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  Inter- 
national Labour  Organisation,  1980. 

International  Monetary  Fund.  Annual  Report  on  Exchange  Arrange- 
ments and  Exchange  Restrictions,  1990.  Washington:  1990. 

Janus.  "Bhutan  in  the  Bahamas!"  Philatelic  Magazine  [London], 
75,  No.  3  (1344),  February  3,  1967,  88,  103. 

Javed,  Musarrat  (ed.).  Bhutan.  (Country  Information  Series,  No. 
7.)  Lahore:  Centre  for  South  Asian  Studies,  University  of  the 
Punjab,  1981. 

Joshi,  S.C.  Forestry  Handbook  of  Bhutan.  Dehra  Dun,  India:  Inter- 
national Book  Distributors,  1986. 

Karan,  Pradyumna  P.  Bhutan:  A  Physical  and  Cultural  Geography.  Lex- 
ington: University  of  Kentucky  Press,  1967. 

 Bhutan:  Development  Amid  Environmental  and  Cultural  Preser- 
vation. (Monumenta  Serindica,  No.  17.)  Tokyo:  Institute  for  the 
Study  of  Languages  and  Cultures  of  Asia  and  Africa,  Tokyo 
University  of  Foreign  Studies,  1987. 

Katwal,  D.N.  "Postal  Services  in  the  Country,"  DrukLosel  [Thim- 
phu], 1,  No.  1,  May  1979,  27-29. 

Khalid,  Zulfikar  A.  "Bhutan — The  Dragon  Kingdom,"  Asian 
Defence  Journal  [Kuala  Lumpur],  December  1982,  30-31. 

"Kingdom  of  Bhutan,"  Current  World  Leaders,  33,  No.  1,  Febru- 
ary 1990,  16. 

"Kingdom  of  Bhutan,"  Current  World  Leaders,  34,  No.  1,  Febru- 
ary 1991,  17-18. 

Kohli,  Manorama.  "Bhutan's  Strategic  Environment:  Changing 
Perceptions."  India  Quarterly  [New  Delhi],  42,  No.  1,  January- 
March  1986,  142-53. 

 "Chinese  Interest  in  Bhutan:  Evolution  of  the  British  In- 
dian Perspective,"  China  Report  [Delhi],  19,  No.  4,  July- August 
1983,  37-45. 

 "Dragon  Kingdom's  Urge  for  an  International  Role." 

India  Quarterly  [New  Delhi],  37,  No.  1,  January-March  1981, 
228-40. 

 India  and  Bhutan:  A  Study  in  Interrelations,  1772-1910.  New 

Delhi:  Munshiram  Manoharlal,  1982. 

 "Portrayal  of  Bhutan  in  the  British  Himalayan  Policy — 

Curzon  Years."  Pages  375-87  in  N.R.  Ray  (ed.),  Himalaya  Fron- 
tier in  Historical  Perspective.  Calcutta:  Institute  of  Historical  Studies, 
1986. 

Kurian,  George  Thomas.  Encyclopedia  of  the  Third  World,  1.  New 

York:  Facts  On  File,  1987. 
Labh,  Kapileshwar.  "The  Himalaya  Frontier:  A  Case  Study  of 

the  Bhutanese  Part  of  the  Frontier."  Pages  388-99  in  N.R.  Ray 


388 


Bibliography 


(ed.),  Himalaya  Frontier  in  Historical  Perspective.  Calcutta:  Institute 
of  Historical  Studies,  1986. 

 "The  Himalayan  Kingdom  of  Bhutan:  Issues  and 

Trends."  Pages  138-49  in  M.D.  Dharmadasani  (ed.),  Contem- 
porary South  Asia.  Banaras,  India:  Shalimar,  1985. 

 .  India  and  Bhutan.  (Studies  in  Asian  History  and  Politics.) 

Delhi:  Sindhu,  1974. 

 .  "Monarchical  System  of  Bhutan:  Challenges  in  Modern- 
ization." Pages  182-94  in  Urmila  Phadnis,  S.D.  Muni,  and  Kal- 
im  Bahadur  (eds.),  Domestic  Conflicts  in  South  Asia.  New  Delhi: 
South  Asian,  1986. 

Lamitare,  Devi  Bhakat.  Murder  of  Democracy  in  Himalayan  Kingdom. 
New  Delhi:  Amarko,  1978. 

Lopeln  Nado.  "Buddhism  in  Bhutan."  Pages  348-49  in  P.N. 
Chopra  and  Tokan  Sumi  (eds.),  Contribution  of  Buddhism  to  World 
Civilization  and  Culture.  New  Delhi:  Chand,  1983. 

Mehra,  G.N.  Bhutan:  Land  of  the  Peaceful  Dragon.  New  Delhi:  Vi- 
kas,  1974. 

Misquitta,  Michelle.  "Bhutan."  Pages  46-47  in  World  of  Infor- 
mation (ed.),  Asia  and  Pacific  Review:  1990.  Saffron  Walden,  Es- 
sex, United  Kingdom:  World  of  Information,  1990. 

Misra,  H.N.  Bhutan:  Problems  and  Policies.  New  Delhi:  Heritage, 
1988. 

Misra,  R.C.  "Institutional  Achievements  and  the  Process  of 
Nation-Building  in  Bhutan."  Pages  185-95  in  S.K.  Chaube 
(ed.),  The  Himalayas:  Profiles  of  Modernization  and  Adaptation.  New 
Delhi:  Sterling,  1985. 

Musee  d' ethnographic  Collection  du  Bhoutan,  Catalogue.  Neuchatel, 
Switzerland:  1982. 

Nado,  Lopon.  "The  Development  of  Language  in  a  Buddhist  King- 
dom," Druk  Losel  [Thimphu],  4,  No.  2,  August  1982,  4-8. 

Naidu,  A.G.  "Bhutan  Looks  Outwards:  Its  Search  for  Identity," 
Indian  Journal  of  Political  Science  [Calcutta],  47,  No.  4,  October- 
December  1986,  533-45. 

Negi,  Sharad  Singh.  Forest  Types  of  India,  Nepal,  and  Bhutan.  Delhi: 
Periodical  Expert  Book  Agency,  1989. 

 A  Handbook  of  the  Himalaya.  New  Delhi:  Indus,  1990. 

Nepal.  National  Planning  Commission.  Secretariat.  Central  Bureau 
of  Statistics.  Statistical  Pocket  Book:  Nepal,  1988.  Kathmandu:  1988. 

Norbu,  Thinley.  Account  of  the  Great  Chaitya  of  Thimbu.  Thimphu: 
1974. 

Official  Airlines  Guide.  (Worldwide  ed.)  Oakbrook,  Illinois:  Septem- 
ber 1990. 


389 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Olschak,  Blanche  Christin.  The  Dragon  Kingdom:  Images  of  Bhutan. 
(Trans.,  Michael  H.  Kohn.)  Boston:  Shambhala,  1988. 

Pemala,  Lonpon.  "A  Short  History  of  Buddhism  in  Bhutan,"  Druk 
Losel  [Thimphu],  6,  No.  1,  May  1984,  5-10. 

Pemberton,  Robert  B.  Report  on  Bootan.  (Indian  Studies:  Past  and 
Present.)  Calcutta:  Bengal  Military  Orphan  Press,  1839.  Reprint. 
Calcutta:  K.L.  Mukhopadhyaya,  1961. 

"Portfolio:  On  the  Road,"  Life,  11,  No.  3,  March  1988,  86-95. 

Rahul,  Ram.  Royal  Bhutan.  New  Delhi:  ABC,  1983. 

Rennie,  David  Field.  Bhotan  and  the  Story  of  the  Dooar  War.  London: 
John  Murray,  1866. 

Rinchhen,  N.  "Bhutan:  System  of  Education."  Pages  479-81  in 
Torsten  Husen  and  T.  Neville  Postlethwaite  (eds.),  The  Interna- 
tional Encyclopedia  of  Education:  Research  and  Studies,  1.  Oxford:  Per- 
gamon  Press,  1985. 

 "The  Last  Shangri  La,"  History  Today  [London],  36,  De- 
cember 1986,  7-8. 

Rose,  LeoE.  The  Politics  of  Bhutan.  Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press, 
1977. 

"Royal  Bhutan  Police,"  Druk  Losel  [Thimphu],  1,  No.  1,  May 
1979,  20. 

Roychoudhury,  Tapash  K.  "Indian's  Settiement  in  Bhutan."  Pages 
125-35  in  I.J.  Bahadur  Singh  (ed.),  Indians  in  South  Asia.  New 
Delhi:  Sterling,  1984. 

Rustomji,  Nari.  Bhutan:  The  Dragon  Kingdom  in  Crisis.  Delhi:  Ox- 
ford University  Press,  1978. 

Samarasinghe,  S.W.R.  de  A.  "The  Bhutanese  Economy  in  Tran- 
sition," Asian  Survey,  30,  No.  6,  June  1990,  560-75. 

Saran,  Hari.  "Bhutan — Historical  Survey."  Pages  201-16  in  Gau- 
tam  Sharma  and  K.S.  Nagar  (eds.),  India's  Northern  Security:  In- 
cluding China,  Nepal,  and  Bhutan.  New  Delhi:  Reliance,  1986. 

Shah,  Sukhdev.  "Developing  Bhutan's  Economy:  Limited  Options, 
Sensible  Choices,"  Asian  Survey,  29,  No.  9,  August  1989,  816-31. 

Sharma,  Gautam,  and  K.S.  Nagar  (eds.).  India's  Northern  Security: 
Including  China,  Nepal  and  Bhutan.  New  Delhi:  Reliance,  1986. 

Shaw,  Brian  C.  "Bhutan."  Pages  250-63  in  The  Far  East  and  Aus- 
tralasia, 1990.  (21st  ed.)  London:  Europa,  1989. 

Shaw,  Brian  C,  and  Leo  E.  Rose.  "Bhutan."  In  Albert  P. 
Blaustein  and  Gisbert  H.  Flanz  (eds.),  Constitutions  of  the  Coun- 
tries of  the  World,  2.  Dobbs  Ferry,  New  York:  Oceana,  June  1989. 

Shaw,  Felicity  M.  "The  National  Library  of  Bhutan:  Preserving 
the  Nation's  Heritage,"  HKLA  Journal  [Hong  Kong],  No.  9, 
1985,  39-58. 


390 


Bibliography 


Singh,  Amar  Kaur  Jasbir.  A  Guide  to  Source  Materials  in  the  India 
Office  Library  and  Records  for  the  History  of  Tibet,  Sikkim,  and  Bhu- 
tan, 1765-1950.  London:  British  Library,  1988. 

 Himalayan  Triangle:  A  Historical  Survey  of  British  India's  Re- 
lations with  Tibet,  Sikkim,  and  Bhutan,  1765-1950.  London:  Brit- 
ish Library,  1988. 

Singh,  Kedar  Man.  "Bhutan:  Distant  Thunder,  Growing  Unrest 
Among  Nepalese  Community,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 
[Hong  Kong],  150,  No.  41,  October  11,  1990,  25. 

Singh,  Laxman.  The  Changing  Bhutan.  New  Delhi:  Jain,  1974. 

Singh,  Nagendra.  Bhutan:  A  Kingdom  in  the  Himalayas.  A  Study  of 
the  Land,  Its  People,  and  Their  Government.  New  Delhi:  S.  Chand, 
1985. 

Sinha,  A.C.  Bhutan:  Ethnic  Indentity  and  National  Dilemma.  (Socio- 
logical Publications  in  Honour  of  K.  Ishwaran  Series,  No.  10.) 
New  Delhi:  Reliance,  1991. 

Statesman's  Yearbook,  1990-91.  (Ed.,  John  Paxton.)  New  York:  St. 

Martin's  Press,  1990. 
Strydonck,  Guy  van.  Bhutan:  A  Kingdom  of  the  Eastern  Himalayas. 
(Trans.,  Ian  Noble.)  Boston:  Shambhala,  1985. 

Surdam,  Wayne  (ed.).  Bibliography  of  Asian  Studies,  1983.  Ann  Ar- 
bor, Michigan:  Association  for  Asian  Studies,  1988. 

 Bibliography  of  Asian  Studies,  1984.  Ann  Arbor,  Michigan: 

Association  for  Asian  Studies,  1989. 

 Bibliography  of  Asian  Studies,  1985.  Ann  Arbor,  Michigan: 

Association  for  Asian  Studies,  1990. 

 Bibliography  of  Asian  Studies,  1986.  Ann  Arbor,  Michigan: 

Association  for  Asian  Studies,  1991. 

Thapar,  O.D.  (ed.).  Seminar  on  Science,  Technology,  and  Society. 
(Proceedings,  February  25-27,  1986.)  Thimphu:  Directorate  of 
Science  and  Technology,  Royal  Government  of  Bhutan,  1986. 

"The  Disinherited:  A  Dossier  on  the  Thirty-one  Least  Developed 
Countries,"  The  UNESCO  Courier  [Paris],  34,  October  1981, 
15-27. 

Thinley,  Jigme.  "The  Role  of  the  DYT,"  Druk  Losel  [Thimphu], 
4,  No.  2,  August  1982,  17-18. 

Tobgeyl,  Kunzang,  and  Mani  Dorji.  280  Folk  Songs  of  Bhutan.  Thim- 
phu: Department  of  Education,  Royal  Government  of  Bhutan, 
1985. 

Yearbook  of  International  Organizations,  1990-91,  2:  Countries.  (Ed., 
Union  of  International  Associations.)  Munich:  K.G.  Sauer,  1990. 

United  Nations.  Department  of  International  Economic  and  So- 
cial Affairs.  Statistical  Office.  1987  Statistical  Yearbook.  New  York: 
1990. 


391 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


 Department  of  International  Economic  and  Social  Affairs. 

World  Population  at  the  Turn  of  the  Century.  (Population  Studies, 
No.  Ill,  SESSER.  A/111.)  New  York:  1989. 

 Department  of  International  Economic  and  Social  Affairs. 

World  Population  Monitoring  1989:  Special  Report:  The  Population  Sit- 
uation in  the  Least  Developed  Countries.  (Population  Studies,  No. 
113,  SESSER.  A/113.)  New  York:  1990. 

United  Nations  Development  Programme.  Secretariat.  Report  on 
the  Round  Table  Conference  for  Bhutan  Held  in  Geneva,  April  24,  1986. 
New  York:  June  1986. 

 Bhutan- United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP):  A  Pro- 
file of  Technical  Co-operation.  Thimphu:  Department  of  Informa- 
tion and  Broadcasting,  August  1985. 

 Development  Co-operation:  Bhutan,  1988  Report.  Thimphu: 

August  1989. 

 .  Development  Co-operation:  Bhutan,  1989  Report.  Thimphu: 

September  1990. 

United  States.  Bureau  of  Mines.  Division  of  International  Miner- 
als. Mineral  Industries  of  the  Far  East  and  South  Asia.  Washington, 
1988. 

 Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Fact  Book,  1991. 

Washington:  1991. 

 Central  Intelligence  Agency.  Directorate  of  Intelligence. 

Reference  Aid:  Chiefs  of  State  and  Cabinet  Members  of  Foreign  Govern- 
ments. (LDA  CS  91-002.)  Washington:  March- April  1991. 

 Congress,  99th,  1st  Session.  Senate.  Committee  on  For- 
eign Relations.  South  Asia  and  U.S.  Interests.  Washington:  GPO, 
1985. 

.  Congress,  100th,  2d  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 
Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Subcommittee  on  Human  Rights 
and  International  Organizations  and  Subcommittee  on  Asian 
and  Pacific  Affairs.  Human  Rights  in  South  Asia.  (Hearings,  July 
18,  1990.)  Washington:  GPO,  1991. 

.  Department  of  the  Interior.  Division  of  Geography.  Prelimi- 
nary NIS  Gazetteer:  India,  I.  Bhutan,  French  India,  Jammu  and  Kash- 
mir, Nepal,  Portuguese  India,  and  India  A-J.  Washington:  April 
1952. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  Background 

Notes:  Bhutan.  (Background  Notes  Series,  No.  8334.)  Washing- 
ton: November  1987. 

 Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1989.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress,  101st, 
2d  Session.  House  of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign 


392 


Bibliography 


Affairs,  and  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  February  1990. 

Upadhyaya,  G.S.  "Social  Change  in  Bhutan."  DrukLosel  [Thim- 
phu], 1,  No.  2,  August  1979,  26-27. 

Vas,  E.A.  The  Dragon  Kingdom:  Journeys  Through  Bhutan.  New  Del- 
hi: Lancer  International,  1986. 

Verma,  Ravi.  India's  Role  in  the  Emergence  of  Contemporary  Bhutan. 
Delhi:  Capital,  1988. 

Weintraub,  Richard  M.  "Bhutan's  King  to  Marry  4  Sisters," 
Washington  Post,  October  31,  1988,  A14. 

World  Bank.  Bhutan:  Development  in  a  Himalayan  Kingdom.  (A  World 
Bank  Country  Study.)  Washington:  1984. 

 Bhutan:  Development  Planning  in  a  Unique  Environment.  (A 

World  Bank  Country  Study.)  Washington:  1989. 

World  Radio  TV  Handbook,  1991,  45.  (Ed.,  Andrew  G.  Sennitt.) 
Amsterdam:  Billboard  A.G.,  1990. 

World  Wildlife  Fund.  "Bhutan  Fact  Sheet."  Washington:  March 
1991,  2  pp. 

 "Bhutan,  WWF,  UNDP  Endowment  Trust  Fund  for  En- 
vironmental Conservation."  March  6,  1991,  3  pp. 

Young,  Lincoln  J.  "Agricultural  Changes  in  Bhutan:  Some  En- 
vironmental Questions,"  Geographical  Journal  [London],  157,  No. 
2,  July  1991,  172-78. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  also  were  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Ser- 
vice, Daily  Report:  Near  East  and  South  Asia,  1990-91 ;  International 
Monetary  Fund,  International  Financial  Statistics,  1990-91;  and  Kuensel 
[Thimphu],  1975-90.) 


393 


Glossary 


Asian  Development  Bank — Established  in  1966,  the  Asian  Develop- 
ment Bank  assists  developing  member  countries  in  economic 
development  and  promotes  growth  and  cooperation.  Member- 
ship includes  both  developed  countries  and  developing  coun- 
tries in  Asia,  and  developed  countries  in  the  West.  Nepal  joined 
the  bank  in  1966,  Bhutan  in  1982.  The  bank  is  headquartered 
in  Manila. 

birta — Nepalese  tax-free  land  tenure  granted  by  the  government 
primarily  as  a  pension  or  as  a  reward  to  political  supporters 
and  family  members,  important  especially  during  the  Rana 
period;  abolished  1959. 

Colombo  Plan  for  Cooperative,  Economic,  and  Social  Develop- 
ment in  Asia  and  the  Pacific  (Colombo  Plan) — Founded  in 
1951 ,  originally  under  a  slightly  different  name,  to  coordinate 
and  aid  development  among  newly  independent  countries. 
Members  include  nations  throughout  the  Asia-Pacific  region 
(Nepal  joined  in  1952;  Bhutan,  in  1962).  Donor  countries  in- 
clude Australia,  Britain,  Canada,  India,  Japan,  New  Zealand, 
and  the  United  States.  The  organization's  headquarters  are 
in  Colombo,  Sri  Lanka. 

dzong — Bhutanese  combined  administrative  and  religious  complex; 
a  fortified  monastery  and  often  the  seat  of  government  for  the 
local  jurisdiction. 

fiscal  year  (FY) — In  Nepal:  July  16  to  July  15.  In  Bhutan:  July 
1  through  June  30  after  July  1,  1988.  Prior  to  March  31,  1987, 
the  fiscal  year  was  from  April  1  through  March  3 1 .  The  peri- 
od from  April  1 ,  1987  to  June  30,  1988  was  used  for  FY  1988. 
The  text  of  this  book  uses  FY  1990,  for  example,  when  refer- 
ring to  1989-90. 

Gorkha — A  principality  west  of  Kathmandu  and  the  ancestral  home 
of  the  Shah  kings,  which  became  the  House  of  Gorkha. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — A  value  measure  of  the  flow  of  do- 
mestic goods  and  services  produced  by  an  economy  over  a  period 
of  time,  such  as  a  year.  Only  output  values  of  goods  for  final 
consumption  and  investment  are  included  because  the  values 
of  primary  and  intermediate  production  are  assumed  to  be 
included  in  final  prices.  GDP  is  sometimes  aggregated  and 
shown  at  market  prices,  meaning  that  indirect  taxes  and  subsi- 
dies are  included;  when  these  have  been  eliminated,  the  result 
is  GDP  at  factor  cost.  The  word^ro^  indicates  that  deductions 


395 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

for  depreciation  of  physical  assets  have  not  been  made.  See  also 
gross  national  product, 
gross  national  product  (GNP) — Gross  domestic  product  (q.  v. )  plus 
the  net  income  or  loss  stemming  from  transactions  with  for- 
eign countries.  GNP  is  the  broadest  measure  of  the  output  of 
goods  and  services  of  an  economy.  It  can  be  calculated  at  market 
prices,  which  include  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies.  Because  in- 
direct taxes  and  subsidies  are  only  transfer  payments,  GNP 
is  often  calculated  at  factor  cost  by  removing  indirect  taxes  and 
subsidies. 

Gurkha — The  British  derivative  of  Gorkha  evolved  from  the  name 
Gorkha  (q.v.),  which  originally  was  applied  to  the  soldiers  of 
that  region.  The  Gurkha  soldiers  of  Nepal,  who  became  fa- 
mous for  their  service  in  the  British  and  Indian  armies  in  the 
nineteenth  and  twentieth  centuries,  principally  were  composed 
of  members  of  the  Magar,  Gurung,  Limbu,  and  Rai  tribes, 
and  were  not  a  single  ethnic  group,  tribe,  clan,  or  caste. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  (q.v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  and  is  responsible  for  stabiliz- 
ing international  exchange  loans  to  its  members  (including  in- 
dustrialized and  developing  countries)  when  they  experience 
balance  of  payments  difficulties.  These  loans  frequently  carry 
conditions  that  require  substantial  international  economic  ad- 
justments by  the  recipients,  most  of  which  are  developing 
countries. 

jagir — A  type  of  land  tenure  in  Nepal  granted  primarily  to  mili- 
tary personnel,  allowing  them  tax-free  access  to  produce  from 
the  land  in  return  for  military  service.  This  tenure  was  a  basic 
feature  of  military  service  in  northern  India  and  in  Nepal  dur- 
ing late  medieval  times,  and  disappeared  in  Nepal  only  in  the 
twentieth  century. 

Khasa — A  term  applied  to  the  peoples  and  languages  in  the  western 
parts  of  Nepal,  closely  related  to  the  cultures  of  northern  India. 

Kirata — A  Tibeto-Burman  ethnic  group  inhabiting  eastern  Nepal 
since  before  the  Licchavi  Dynasty,  just  prior  to  and  during  the 
early  years  of  the  Christian  era. 

ngultrum — Bhutan's  unit  of  currency  adopted  in  1974.  In  Novem- 
ber 1990,  the  official  exchange  rate  was  US$1  equals  ngultrum 
(Nu)  17.95  and  at  par  with  the  Indian  rupee  (Nul  =  Rsl). 
There  are  100  chetrum  (Ch)  in  one  ngultrum.  There  are  5, 
10,  25,  and  50  chetrum  cupro-nickel  coins  and  a  1  ngultrum 
bronze  coin,  and  1,  2,  5,  10,  20,  50,  and  100  ngultrum  notes. 
Large  ngultrum  amounts  are  counted  using  the  Sanskrit  terms 


396 


Glossary 


lakh  (100,000)  and  crore  (10  million);  thus  Nul  lakh  =  Nu 
100,000  and  Nu  1  crore  =  NulO  million).  The  term  is  de- 
rived from  the  Dzongkha  ngul,  meaning  silver,  and  trum,  prob- 
ably a  Hindi  word,  meaning  money.  Before  1957  Indian  and 
Bhutanese  coins  circulated  in  nondecimal  paisa  and  rupee 
denominations  (1  rupee  =  64  paisa);  after  the  decimal  system 
was  adopted  in  1957,  paisa,  rupee,  and  sertum  circulated 
(1  sertum  =  100  rupees;  1  rupee  =  100  paisa). 
nibbana — More  commonly  known  in  Western  literature  as  nirvana. 
The  goal  of  the  path,  the  extinction  of  desire,  hate,  and  the 
illusion  of  selfhood.  A  state  of  mystical  union  with  the  abso- 
lute one  world  soul  {brahman),  not  an  individual  soul  that  at- 
tains it  (as  in  Hinduism).  For  the  Hindu,  a  state  of  liberation 
or  illumination.  For  the  Buddhist,  there  are  no  immortal  par- 
ticular souls,  only  the  world  soul,  in  which  all  beings,  both  ani- 
mate and  inanimate,  are  participants.  The  goal  of  spiritual 
practice  in  all  branches  of  Buddhism.  Enlightenment  is  the  reali- 
zation of  the  identity  of  the  self  with  the  absolute.  The  release 
from  the  cycle  of  rebirths  and  the  annihilation  of  the  individu- 
al being  that  occurs  on  achievement  of  perfect  spiritual  under- 
standing. 

official  development  assistance  (ODA) — Those  flows  to  develop- 
ing countries  and  multilateral  institutions  provided  by  official 
agencies,  including  state  and  local  governments,  or  by  their 
executive  agencies,  each  transaction  of  which  meets  the  follow- 
ing criteria:  it  is  administered  with  the  promotion  of  the  eco- 
nomic development  and  welfare  of  developing  countries  as  its 
main  objective;  and  it  is  concessional  in  character  and  contains 
a  grant  element  of  at  least  25  percent. 

panchayat — In  ancient  times,  a  Nepalese  public  assembly,  ideally 
comprised  of  the  five  (pancha)  most  important  caste  or  occupa- 
tional groups  in  the  village.  A  pancha  is  a  member  of  a  pan- 
chayat. From  1962  until  the  1990  constitution  took  effect, 
assemblies  modeled  on  this  ancient  system  formed  the  back- 
bone of  political  structure  in  Nepal,  at  the  village  and  district 
levels,  and  at  the  top  in  the  National  Panchayat,  or  Rashtriya 
Panchayat. 

Rana — Term,  used  as  an  honorific  personal  name,  signified 
strength  in  battle  in  late  medieval  north  India.  It  was  adopted 
as  a  title  by  Jang  Bahadur  Kunwar  in  the  1850s,  and  by  his 
heirs  after  him,  and  became  the  standard  name  used  for  this 
Nepalese  dynasty  of  prime  ministers  and  their  families. 

rupee — (Rs)  or  Nepalese  rupee  (NRs),  the  unit  of  currency,  univer- 
sal since  the  late  1960s.  The  Nepalese  rupee  is  linked  to  the 


397 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 

Indian  rupee  and  is  fully  convertible  although  restrictions  were 
imposed  during  the  1989-90  trade  and  transit  dispute.  The 
equivalency  rate  used  in  Chapter  1  is  Rs2.1  =  US$1  in  1919. 
By  1973  the  official  exchange  rate  was  Rs6.55  =  US$1;  in  1991, 
Rs30.80  =  US$l.  One  Nepalese  rupee  =  100  paisa. 

samuha — Interest  group  within  a pancha  (q.  v.).  The  term  is  deroga- 
tory when  used  by  someone  who  does  not  belong  to  a  pancha. 

soft  loan — A  loan  bearing  either  no  rate  of  interest,  or  an  interest 
rate  below  the  true  cost  of  the  capital  lent.  The  International 
Development  Association,  an  affiliate  of  the  International  Bank 
for  Reconstruction  (see  World  Bank,  q.v.),  grants  soft  loans 
to  developing  countries  for  long-term  capital  projects. 

South  Asian  Association  for  Regional  Cooperation  (SAARC) — 
Comprises  the  seven  nations  of  South  Asia:  Bangladesh,  Bhu- 
tan, India,  Maldives,  Nepal,  Pakistan,  and  Sri  Lanka;  head- 
quartered in  Kathmandu.  Founded  as  South  Asia  Regional 
Cooperation  (SARC)  organization  at  a  meeting  for  foreign 
ministers  in  New  Delhi  on  August  1-2,  1983;  a  second  organiza- 
tional meeting  of  foreign  ministers  was  held  in  Thimphu  in 
May  1985;  inaugural  meeting  of  heads  of  state  and  govern- 
ment in  Dhaka  on  December  7-8,  1986.  The  goal  is  to  effect 
economic,  technical,  and  cultural  cooperation,  and  to  provide 
a  forum  for  discussions  of  South  Asia's  political  problems. 

United  States  Export-Import  Bank  (Eximbank) — An  independent 
corporate  agency  of  the  United  States  government,  founded 
in  1934  to  stimulate  foreign  trade  during  the  Great  Depres- 
sion. The  Eximbank  facilitates  export  financing  of  United  States 
goods  and  services  by  neutralizing  the  effect  of  export  credit 
subsidies  from  other  governments  and  by  absorbing  reasona- 
ble credit  risks  beyond  the  reach  of  the  private  sector. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  four 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA),  the  International  Finance  Cor- 
poration (IFC),  and  the  Multilateral  Investment  Guarantee 
Agency  (MIGA).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  as  its 
primary  purpose  the  provision  of  loans  to  developing  countries 
for  productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund 
but  administered  by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960 
to  furnish  credits  to  the  poorest  developing  countries  on  much 
easier  terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC, 
founded  in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD  through 
loans  and  assistance  designed  specifically  to  encourage  the 
growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  the  less-developed 


398 


Glossary 


countries.  The  MIGA,  founded  in  1988,  insures  private  for- 
eign investment  in  developing  countries  against  various  non- 
commercial risks.  The  president  and  certain  senior  officers  of 
the  IBRD  hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC .  The  four  insti- 
tutions are  owned  by  the  governments  of  the  countries  that  sub- 
scribe their  capital.  To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group, 
member  states  must  first  belong  to  the  Intentional  Monetary 
Fund  (IMF — q.v.). 


399 


Index 


Abadhi  language,  81 
Abhira  Guptas,  8 
Abhira  people,  4 

Abuse  of  Authority  Investigating  Com- 
mission, 159 
acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 
(AIDS) 

Bhutan:  289 
Nepal:  219 
Adhikari,  Man  Mohan,  170 
Advising  Assembly,  147-48 
Afghan  people,  21 
Afghan  War,  Second,  201 
Agricultural  Development  Bank  (see  also 

Co-operative  Bank),  114,  132 
Agricultural  Inputs  Corporation,  140 
Agricultural  Reorganization  Act,  125 
agriculture 

Bhutan:  274,  275,  297,  298-301, 
334;  employment  in,  280,  298, 
306;  as  percentage  of  gross  do- 
mestic product,  289,  298;  women 
in,  280 

Nepal:  xxiii,  51,  59-60,  108,  112, 
116,  122-24,  126;  employment 
in,  66;  under  five-year  plans, 
109,  110,  122;  foreign  aid  for, 
119,  120,  121,  188;  in  the  Hill 
Region,  59;  income  from,  42; 
influence  of  climate  on,  62;  migra- 
tion for,  70;  as  percentage  of 
gross  domestic  product,  122;  social 
strata  in,  87 

AIDS.  See  acquired  immune  deficiency 
syndrome 

Ain  Sangraha,  229 

Akhil  Bharatiya  Nepali  Rashtriya  Con- 
gress. See  All-India  Nepali  National 
Congress 

All-Bhutan  Examinations,  285 

All-India  Nepali  National  Congress,  37 

All  Peasants  Union,  168 

All  Round  National  Education  Commit- 
tee, 94 

Amnesty  International,  xxvi,  xxvii, 
326 

Amo  Chhu,  271 
Amritsar  massacre,  202-3 


Amsuvarman,  8 
Anapurna  I,  xv 

Anglo-Nepalese  War  (1814-16),  xv, 

22-23,  185,  200,  236 
Anglo-Tibetan  Convention  (1904),  261 
Arimalla,  10 

army.  See  Gorkha;  Gurkha  soldiers;  Royal 

Bhutan  Army;  Royal  Nepal  Army 
Army  Training  Centre,  337 
Army  Welfare  Committee,  338 
Army  Welfare  Project,  338 
Arniko  Highway,  135,  186,  212,  236 
Arunachal  Pradesh,  266 
Arun  River,  65,  132 
Arya  people,  4-5 
Ashoka,  5 

Asian- African  Conference,  191 

Asian-African  Legal  Consultative  Com- 
mittee, 191 

Asian  Development  Bank:  aid  to  Bhutan 
by,  287,  295,  296;  aid  to  Nepal  by, 
xxiii,  114,  119,  120,  126,  132,  133; 
Bhutan's  debt  to,  297;  Bhutan's 
membership  in,  334;  Nepal's  member- 
ship in,  xx,  xxiv;  reaction  of,  to  pro- 
democracy  movement,  146 

Asian  Regional  Team  for  Employment 
Production,  122 

Asia  Watch,  189 

Assam,  266 

Assamese  language,  274 
Assembly  of  Lords,  20,  33,  146 
Associations  and  Organizations  (Control) 

Act  (1963)  (Nepal),  166 
Australia:  aid  to  Bhutan  by,  295;  aid  to 

Nepal  by,  119;  Bhutanese  students  in, 

287 

Austria:  aid  to  Bhutan  by,  296 
Ayur-Veda,  101 


Back-to-the- Village  National  Campaign 

(BVNC),  162-63 
Baghmati  River,  55 
Bahadur,  Namgyal,  264 
Bahadur,  Sher,  19 


401 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Baisi  confederation,  14 
Balaju:  industry  in,  127 
balance  of  payments,  118-19 
balance  of  trade 
Bhutan:  297 
Nepal:  140 
Bangladesh:  aid  from  Bhutan  to,  296; 
Bhutan's  trade  and  relations  with,  266, 
297,  331,  333;  military  training  of 
Nepalese  in,  221;  Nepal's  relations 
with,  183-84 
banking 

Bhutan:  294-95 
Nepal:  114-15 
Bank  of  Bhutan,  294,  295,  300 
barley 

Bhutan:  298 
Nepal:  62,  124 
barter,  293 

Basic  Needs  Program,  112-13 
Basnyat  Conspiracy,  28 
Basnyat  family,  20 

Bhadgaon,  8;  Gorkha  conquest  of,  18; 
origins  of,  11;  population  of,  68;  in 
Three  Kingdoms  period,  13,  15 

Bhaktapur.  See  Bhadgaon 

Bhandari,  Madan,  169-70,  173 

Bharadari  Sabha.  See  Assembly  of  Lords 

Bhasa  Pathsalas  schools,  33 

Bhattarai,  Krishna  Prasad  (K.P.),  170, 
175;  as  prime  minister,  145,  152,  165 

Bheri  River,  65 

Bhojpuri  language,  81 

Bhote  or  Bhotia  people,  76,  79,  90,  273 

Bhutan,  ancient:  capitals  of,  257;  early  set- 
dement  of,  254-56;  etymology  of,  254; 
government,  255;  origins  of,  253-54;  re- 
gions of,  257;  Tibetan  invasion  of,  256 

Bhutan,  modern:  China's  claim  to,  332; 
as  "Eastern  Geneva,"  334;  Nepalese 
minority  in,  333;  Nepalese  political  agi- 
tation in,  238;  trade  with  Nepal,  297 

Bhutan:  Human  Rights  Violations 
Against  the  Nepali-Speaking  Population 
in  the  South,  xxvi 

Bhutan  Aid  Group-Nepal,  327 

Bhutan  Board  Projects,  303 

Bhutan  Broadcasting  Service,  312,  328 

Bhutan  Carbide  and  Chemicals,  303 

Bhutan  Chamber  of  Commerce  and  In- 
dustry, 305-6,  318 

Bhutan  Development  Finance  Corpora- 
tion, 294-95,  296 


Bhutanese  people,  xxii,  273,  274 
Bhutan  Government  Transport  Service, 
307 

Bhutan  People's  Forum  for  Human 

Rights,  327 
Bhutan  People's  Party,  326,  327 
Bhutan  State  Congress  party,  324 
Bhutan  Students  Union,  327 
Bhutan  Tourism  Corporation,  312 
Bhutan-Nepal  Friendship  Association, 

333 

Bhutan-Nepal  relations,  184,  333 
Binyogi,  Govinda,  177 
Biratnagar  Jute  Mills,  127 
Birendra,  Bir  Bikram  Shah  Dev  (king). 

See  Shah  Dev,  Birendra  Bir  Bikram 
Birendra  Hospital,  232 
birta,  23,  43 

Bishop,  Barry,  57,  60,  80 

Black  Mountains,  269 

bodhisattvas,  282 

Bodhnath,  9 

Bon  religion,  254,  284 

Border  Roads  Organization,  336 

Boxer  Uprising  (1900),  201 

Brahma,  91 

Brahman  caste,  80;  in  elite  class,  88;  hill, 
20,  77;  Indo-Nepalese,  75;  Thakuri,  76 
Brahmaputra  River,  271 
bridges,  307 

Britain:  aid  to  Bhutan  by,  296;  aid  to 
Nepal  by,  119,  133;  annual  payments 
by,  to  Nepal,  36;  Bhutanese  students 
in,  287;  Bhutan's  status  under,  263;  ex- 
ports to,  116-18;  influence  of,  on  Bhu- 
tan, 323;  Jang  Bahadur's  visit  to,  28; 
military  training  for  Nepal  in,  216,  221 ; 
Nepal's  military  clashes  with,  19;  as 
protector  of  Bhutan,  335;  support  of, 
for  Jang  Bahadur,  32;  support  of,  for 
zone  of  peace  initiative,  189;  volunteer 
programs  of,  296 

Britain-Bhutan  relations,  xxiv;  boundary 
disputes  and,  259;  military,  335;  tribu- 
tary, 259 

Britain-Nepal  relations,  29,  189;  arms 
supplies,  215;  military,  220 

British  Army:  recruitment  of  Gurkhas 
into,  200,  203 

British  Brigade  of  Gurkhas  (see  also 
Gurkha  soldiers),  xviii,  79,  176,  179, 
189,  197,  198,  200,  223,  225;  future  of, 
224;  number  of  soldiers  in,  201,  224; 


402 


Index 


postings  of,  224;  recruitment  into,  202, 
205 

British  Broadcasting  Corporation,  179 
British  East  India  Company,  15,  17; 

Cooch  Behar  as  dependency  of,  259; 

military  aggression  by,  17,  200,  259; 

Nepal's  relations  and  agreements  with, 

xv,  20,  21-22;  Sepoy  Rebellion  against, 

31 

British  Raj,  179 

British  resident,  23,  25 

Brunei:  Gurkha  soldiers  in,  xviii,  198,  225 

buckwheat,  298 

Buddha  {see  also  Siddhartha  Gautama),  5, 
92,  282 

Buddhism,  xix,  5,  76,  88,  91-92,  277, 

281-  84;  as  Bhutan's  national  religion, 
281,  324;  concepts  of,  92;  Eightfold 
Path  of,  92;  establishment  of,  in  Bhu- 
tan, xxi,  254-55,  273;  establishment  of, 
in  Nepal,  5;  Four  Noble  Truths  of,  92; 
and  Hinduism,  88;  intersect  rivalry  in, 
255;  monastic  system  of,  262;  schism 
in,  10;  scriptures  of,  282;  symbols  of, 
283;  tantrism  in,  283;  theology  of, 

282-  83 

Buddhism,  Mahayana,  xxi,  281-84; 
Drukpa  subsect,  255,  283;  Gelugpa 
(Yellow  Hat)  sect,  255,  256;  Kargyupa 
sect,  255-56,  282,  283;  Nyingmapa 
(Red  Hat)  sect,  255,  256;  percentage 
of  Bhutanese  population  practicing,  281 

Buddhist  convents,  283 

Buddhist  monasteries,  283;  government 
control  of,  263;  role  of,  10 

Buddhist  monks,  255;  compulsory  inves- 
titure, 258;  hierarchy  of,  282;  lifestyle 
of,  283;  number  of,  in  Bhutan,  282; 
role  of,  10 

Buddhist  nuns,  283,  314 

Buddhists,  152;  geographical  distribution 
of,  90 

Buddhist  shrines  and  temples 

Bhutan:  254,  282-83 

Nepal:  9,  10,  11 
budget 

Bhutan:  292-93 

Nepal:  113 
Budhi  River,  65 

Bumthang,  255;  Buddhist  temples  at,  254 
Bumthang  Chhu,  271 
Bumthangkha  language,  276 
Butawal,  69;  industry  in,  127 


BVNC.  See  Back-to-the- Village  National 
Campaign 


Cabral,  John,  15 

Cacella,  Stephen,  15 

Canada:  aid  to  and  volunteers  in  Bhutan 

by,  296 
Capuchin  mission,  15 
CARE,  188 

caste  system,  79-81,  83-84,  149,  277;  and 
Hinduism,  90;  and  police  attitudes, 
226;  women  in,  xix,  86 
censorship,  176,  177 
census 

Bhutan:  xxvii,  272 
Nepal:  65 
Central  Bank  of  India,  115 
Central  Bureau  of  Statistics,  66 
Central  Monastic  Body,  282,  318 
Central  Police  Headquarters,  227 
Chabahil,  9 
Chalukyas,  9-10 

Chand,  Lokendra  Bahadur,  50,  172 
Chartered  Bank  of  India,  294 
Chaubisi  confederation,  14 
Chautaria,  Fateh  Jang,  26 
Chhetri  caste,  76,  77,  79,  80,  88;  as 

Gurkha  soldiers,  199,  200 
chhokey,  275-76 

Chhukha  Hydel  Project,  297-98,  304 
China:  aid  to  Nepal  by,  119,  126,  133, 
146,  187;  arms  supplies  to  Nepal  from, 
187,  215,  234-35,  236;  border  issues  of, 
179,  335;  clashes  with  Nepal,  19;  in- 
vasion of  Tibet  by,  14,  21,  185,  233, 
262;  Koirala's  visit  to,  43;  Mahendra's 
visit  to,  236;  relations  of,  with  Three 
Kingdoms,  14;  territorial  claims  of, 
332;  threat  from,  212,  335 
China-Bhutan  relations,  332-33,  335 
China-Nepal  relations,  xx,  xxi,  43,  180, 

184-87,  220,  221,  235,  236 
China  Today,  178 

Chinese  People's  Liberation  Army,  332 

Chomo  Lhari,  269 

chorten.  See  stupas 

Choutariya  family,  20 

Christianity,  88 

Christians,  152 

Chumbi  Valley,  269,  332,  335 
Churia  Range.  See  Siwalik  Range 


403 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Citizenship  Act  (1952)  (Nepal),  180 
Citizenship  Act  (1985)  (Bhutan),  xxii, 
xxvii,  325 

Citizen's  Rights  Committee.  See  Nagrik 

Adhikar  Samiti 
civil  aviation 

Bhutan:  308 

Nepal:  136 
civil  rights,  153 
civil  service 

Bhutan:  321-22 

Nepal:  159;  expanded  under  King 
Mahendra,  88 
civil  war,  258-59 
class  and  society 

Bhutan:  276-78 

Nepal:  87-88;  elite,  87,  88,  97,  163, 
329;  middle,  87;  under  panchayat 
system,  162;  peasant,  84,  87;  un- 
der Rana  rule,  33 

climate 

Bhutan:  270-71,  298,  334 
Nepal:  60-62 
climatic  zones,  61 
Coca-Cola  Corporation,  188 
cocaine,  82 
colleges 

Bhutan:  287 
Nepal:  96-97 
Colombo  Plan  for  Cooperative,  Econom- 
ic, and  Social  Development  in  Asia  and 
the  Pacific:  aid  to  Bhutan  by,  295;  aid 
to  Nepal  by,  xxiii,  119;  Bhutan's  mem- 
bership in,  265,  334 
Commoner,  178 
communications 

Bhutan:  308,  311-12,  334 
Nepal:  109-10,  112,  119,  137-38 
Communist  Party  of  Nepal,  41,  168-69; 
coalition  of,  with  Nepali  Congress 
Party,  xvi;  factions  in,  163,  168;  oppo- 
sition of,  to  Koirala  government,  44; 
opposition  of,  to  monarchy,  163 
Communist  Party  of  Nepal  (Manandhar), 
170 

Communist  Party  of  Nepal  (Marxist),  168 

Communist  Party  of  Nepal  (United 
Marxist-Leninist),  xxv,  xxvi,  168, 
169-70,  325;  in  1991  election,  xvii,  174, 
238;  in  1992  election,  xviii;  opposition 
of,  to  Tanakpur  project,  xx 

communists,  xxvi,  174,  238-39 

Companies  Act  (1989),  290 


Congress  Socialist  Party,  37 
Constitutional  Council,  158,  159 
Constitutional  Reform  Committee,  147 
constitution  of  1948,  38,  147 
constitution  of  1951,  41,  147-48 
constitution  of  1959,  43,  148-49 
constitution  of  1962,  xvi,  149-50,  171; 
court  system  under,  230;  elections  un- 
der, 49;  judiciary  under,  230 
constitution  of  1990,  xvii,  xix,  145,  146, 
152-59,  166,  177;  army  under,  xviii, 
198,  205-8 
Constitution  of  the  National  Assembly 

(1953),  xxi,  315,  319 
Constitution  Recommendation  Commis- 
sion, xxvii,  77,  145,  152 
Constitution  Reforms  Commission,  49, 
150 

Convention  Against  Torture  and  Other 
Cruel,  Inhuman,  or  Degrading  Treat- 
ment, 228 

Cooch  Behar,  256,  258-59,  260 

Co-operative  Bank  {see  also  Agricultural 
Development  Bank),  114 

corn 

Bhutan:  298,  299 
Nepal:  124 
corruption:  in  government,  50,  164,  172; 

investigation  of,  159 
Council  of  Ministers  (Bhutan),  xxi,  318, 
319-21 

Council  of  Ministers  (Nepal),  xvii,  49,  77, 

147,  148,  149,  154-55 
Council  of  State,  148 
coup  d'etat  of  1960,  4,  82,  145,  164,  166, 

239 

coups  d'etat,  attempted:  of  1949,  38;  of 

1950,  38 
courts  martial,  225 
court  system 

Bhutan:  340,  341 

Nepal:  157-59,  229-31 
criminal  justice  system 

Bhutan:  341-42 

Nepal:  153-54 
currency 

Bhutan:  293-94 

Nepal:  42,  115;  convertibility  of, 
108,  115,  116;  decoupled  from 
Indian  rupee,  182 


Daily  News,  178 


404 


Index 


Dakpa,  Jigme:  as  shabdrung,  258 

Dakshinakoligrama,  8 

Dalai  Lama,  256,  259 

Damai  caste,  84 

dams,  65,  132 

Dang  Valley,  60 

Daraudi  River,  65 

Dashain  festival,  62 

debt,  foreign 

Bhutan:  296-97 

Nepal:  118,  121,  140 
debt  service:  as  percentage  of  gross  do- 
mestic product,  121;  ratio,  118 
defense  industry,  22 
defense  spending,  209,  211 
deforestation 

Bhutan:  301 

Nepal:  60,  122,  125-26,  129 

democracy  movement  (see  also  Movement 
for  the  Restoration  of  Democracy),  in 
Bhutan,  xxii,  253,  339 

Democratic  Front,  237 

Deopatan:  shrines  at,  9 

Department  of  Animal  Husbandry  Fish- 
ery Development  Programme  (Bhu- 
tan), 300 

Department  of  Civil  Aviation  and  Trans- 
port (Bhutan),  308 

Department  of  Education  (Bhutan),  276, 
285-86,  287 

Department  of  Forestry  (Bhutan),  300, 
301,  339 

Department  of  Mines  and  Geology 

(Nepal),  128 
Department  of  Public  Health  (Bhutan), 

287,  289 

Department  of  Public  Works  (Bhutan), 
307 

Department  of  the  Adjutant  General 

(Nepal),  218 
Department  of  the  Judge  Advocate 

General  (Nepal),  225 
Department  of  Trade  and  Commerce 

(Bhutan),  305 
Devaladevi  (queen),  12 
development 

Bhutan:  aid  for,  266;  infrastructure, 

330;  projects,  264 
Nepal:  consultant  firms,  88;  econom- 
ic, 50,  67,  118,  120,  154;  under 
First  Five- Year  Plan,  109;  foreign 
aid  for,  110,  120;  under  Mahendra, 
47;  and  panchayat  system,  110;  proj- 


ects, 119;  rural,  112;  social,  154 
Development  Plan,  First  (1961-66),  290, 
301,  306 

Development  Plan,  Second  (1966-71), 
290 

Development  Plan,  Third  (1971-76), 

290-  91 

Development  Plan,  Fourth  (1976-81),  291 
Development  Plan,  Fifth  (1981-86),  291, 

300,  302,  307 
Development   Plan,    Sixth  (1986-91), 

291-  92,  296,  300,  305,  307,  325 
Development  Plan,  Seventh,  (1991-96), 

291 

development  plans  (Bhutan):  funding  for, 

290,  291,  292 
Development  Secretariat,  290 
Dewangiri,  263 

Dhangadhi-Dadeldhura  Highway,  135 

Dharan,  127 

dharma,  5,  257,  283 

dharma  chastras,  30 

Dhimal  people,  74 

diet 

Bhutan:  277-78,  288,  289 
Nepal:  123 
Dipawali.  See  Tihar  festival 
diseases,  98-100,  288;  among  military 

personnel,  219,  232 
divorce,  278-79 
Donga  Range,  269 
Dorji,  Jigme  Palden,  264,  265,  324 
Dorji,  Kesang  (Ashi),  265,  314 
Dorji,  Lam,  336,  340 
Dorji,  Lhendup,  264,  265 
Dorji  family,  262,  264 
Doya  people,  274 
Drangme  Chhu,  269,  271 
dress,  traditional,  278 
driglam  namzha,  xxii,  xxiv,  xxvii,  276, 

324-25,  340;  ethnic  Nepalese  protest 

against,  325;  justification  of,  327 
Drokpa  tribe,  274 
drought,  62 
drug  subculture,  82 
Druk-Air.  See  Royal  Bhutan  Airlines 
Druk  Gyalpo  (Dragon  King),  xxi,  xxvii, 

xxviii,  262,  315,  319,  321,  327,  336; 

votes  of  confidence  in,  265,  314 
Drukyul,  xxi,  254,  256 
Dual  Foreign  Exchange  rate,  116 
Duars,  271;  annexed  by  Britain,  260; 

Bhutanese  control  of,  259;  Monyul 


405 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


invasion  of,  254 

Duars  Plain,  269-70 

Duar  War,  260 

Dudh  River,  65 

Durbar  High  School,  93 

Dyer,  R.E.H.,  202-3 

dzong,  255,  256,  315 

Dzongkha  language,  xxii,  xxviii,  276; 
broadcasts  in,  312,  328;  as  language  of 
instruction,  286;  as  national  language, 
264,  324,  325;  publications  in,  328 


earthquake  of  1803,  21 
East-West   Highway.    See  Mahendra 
Highway 

Economic  Council  for  Asia  and  the  Far 
East,  191 

economy.  See  individual  development  plans  and 

five-year  plans 
education  (see  also  schools) 

Bhutan:  xxiii;  under  development 
plans,  285,  290-91;  enrollments 
in,  286;  foreign,  287;  higher,  287; 
Western-style,  284 
Nepal:  xix,  92-98,  112,  140;  enroll- 
ments in,  94,  96,  97;  foreign  aid 
for,  119,  120,  188;  higher,  96-97; 
languages  for,  xxii;  as  percentage 
of  government  expenditures,  42; 
primary,  94,  112;  right  to,  153; 
secondary,  94;  under  Second  Five- 
YearPlan,  109;  for  women,  86-87 
elections  of  1959,  43,  164 
elections  of  1963,  46-47 
elections  of  1981,  49,  167,  171-72 
elections  of  1986,  50,  172-73 
elections  of  1987,  173 
elections  of  1991,  xvii,  145,  164,  166, 

173-76;  military  role  in,  214,  220 
elections  of  1992,  xviii 
electricity 

Bhutan:  304-5;  as  percentage  of 
gross  domestic  product,  289,  304 
Nepal:  xxvi,  42,  112,  127,  129-32 
elite  class 

Bhutan:  329 
Nepal:  87,  88 
Emirates  Bank  International  Limited,  115 
employment 

Bhutan:  306 
Nepal:  42,  56,  66 
energy 


Bhutan:  304-5 
Nepal:  125,  129-33 
English  language,  276;  broadcasts  and 
publications  in,  178,  179,  312,  328;  as 
language  of  instruction,  286;  in  mili- 
tary, 217 
environment,  292 

ethnic  groups  (see  also  under  individual 
groups),  xix;  in  Bhutan,  xxii,  273-75; 
conflict  among,  xxvi,  325;  desire  for 
recognition  by,  xvii;  geographic  distri- 
bution of,  74,  76;  migration  of,  77;  in 
Nepal,  xvii,  74-79 

European  Community,  334 

European  trade 
Bhutan:  297 
Nepal:  118 

Eximbank.  See  Export-Import  Bank 

Export  Entitlement  Program,  116 

Export-Import  Bank,  121 

exports 

Bhutan:  297 

Nepal:  115,  116;  agricultural,  116, 
122;  to  Britain,  116;  earnings 
from,  119;  to  Europe,  118;  growth 
in,  112,  119;  to  imports  ratio,  140; 
to  India,  116;  industrial,  127;  to 
United  States,  116 


family 

Bhutan:  277,  279 
Nepal:  65,  83,  86,  87 
family  planning,  66,  72-74;  foreign  aid 

for,  188 
famine,  62 

farmers,  77;  tenant,  124 

Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Ger- 
many): aid  to  Bhutan  by,  296;  aid  to 
Nepal  by,  121,  132,  190;  arms  supplies 
to  Nepal  from,  215;  Bhutanese  students 
in,  287;  military  training  of  Nepalese 
in,  221;  tourists  to  Bhutan  from,  313 

fertilization,  300-301 

festivals,  281 

feudalism 

Bhutan:  264 
Nepal:  81,  124 

fisheries,  300 

Five-YearPlan,  First  (1956-61),  43,  108, 
109,  113 


406 


Index 


Five- Year  Plan,  Second  (1962-65),  43, 
109 

Five-Year  Plan,  Third  (1965-70),  47, 
109-10 

Five- Year  Plan,  Fourth  (1970-75),  47, 

94,  109,  110 
Five- Year  Plan,  Fifth  (1975-80),  110, 

122,  133 

Five- Year  Plan,  Sixth  (1980-85),  110,  136 
Five-Year  Plan,  Seventh  (1985-90),  110, 
133 

flooding,  62,  272 
food 

Bhutan:  fish  as,  300;  production,  298 
Nepal:  crisis  of  1983,  50;  production, 

112,  122,  123;  shortages,  xix,  xxvi, 

100 

Food  Corporation  of  Bhutan,  295 

foreign  affairs 

Bhutan:  xxiv,  265,  266,  328-34 
Nepal:  xx,  154,  179-90;  national 
security  in,  208,  211 

foreign  assistance 

Bhutan:  xxiii,  292,  293,  295-96;  for 

education,  287 
Nepal:  xix-xx,  56,  109,  110,  113, 
119-21,  146,  164,  188;  for  agricul- 
ture, 119,  120,  121,  188;  for  edu- 
cation, 119,  120,  188;  for  family 
planning,  188;  for  five-year  plans, 
109;  grants  for,  120;  for  hydro- 
electric production,  119,  120,  190; 
for  industry,  119,  126,  189;  for 
infrastructure,  119,  120,  133,  188; 
for  irrigation,  119,  120;  loans  as 
percentage  of,  120;  loans  for,  120; 
multilateral,  120;  as  percentage  of 
development,  110;  as  percentage 
of  gross  domestic  product,  120; 
as  percentage  of  gross  national 
product,  121;  program  aid,  120, 
121;  project  aid,  120;  for  public 
health,  119,  120,  188,  189,  190; 
for  road  construction,  133;  for 
rural  areas,  188;  sources  of,  120; 
technical,  120-21;  for  transporta- 
tion, 119,  189 

Foreign  Department,  36 

foreigners,  illegal,  306 

foreign  exchange 

Bhutan:  earnings,  311,  312,  328 
Nepal:  Gurkha  remittances  as  source 
of,  xviii,  176,  223;  rates,  115, 


116;  reserves,  115;  spent  on  petro- 
leum, 132;  tourism  as  source  of, 
xxiii,  138,  139 

Forest  Guards,  301,  339-40 

Forest  Products  Development  Board,  125 

Forestry  School,  301 

forests 

Bhutan:  269,  270,  290,  301-2 
Nepal:  125-26,  129;  rain  in,  61;  in 
Tarai,  60 

Forum  for  the  Protection  of  Human 
Rights,  176 

France:  aid  to  Nepal  by,  190;  arms  sup- 
plies to  Nepal  from,  215;  diplomatic  re- 
lations with  Nepal,  43 

Freedom  Front  of  the  Limbu  People, 
170 

Freedom  of  Speech  Publications  Act 

(1988),  176-77 
Front  of  the  Kirat  Aborigines,  170 
Fuelwood  Corporation,  125 

Gandak  River.  See  Narayani  River 
Gandhi,  Indira,  48 
Gandhi,  Mohandas  K.,  36,  37,  40 
Gandhi,  Rajiv,  235 
Ganges  River,  65 
Gangetic  Plain,  5,  57,  60 
Garhwal  kingdom:  attack  on,  21 
GDP.  See  gross  domestic  product 
Gedu  Wood  Manufacturing  Corporation, 
303 

Generalized  System  of  Preferences,  297 
geographic  location 

Bhutan:  253,  330,  335-36 
Nepal:  56,  107,  203;  effect  of,  on 
trade  and  transit,  179;  strategic 
importance  of,  146,  211,  231 
geography 

Bhutan:  266-72;  land  area,  268-69; 

land  use,  269;  topography,  266-70 
Nepal:  56-60,  61,  76;  defense  con- 
straints of,  212,  231-32;  Hill 
Region,  57,  59-60;  Mountain 
Region,  57-59;  Tarai  Region,  57, 
60 

Geological  Survey  of  Bhutan,  303 
Geological  Survey  of  India,  303 
Geylegphug,  270 
Ghising,  Subhas,  238 
gho,  278 
glaciers,  271-72 


407 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


GNP.  See  gross  national  product 
gongzim,  262 
Gopal  people,  4 

Gorkha  {see  also  Gurkha  soldiers),  xv, 
3,15-18,  19,  20,  21,  22,  23,  25,  31,  199 
Gorkha  Congress  of  Calcutta,  37 
Gorkhali,  36,  37 

Gorkha-Narayangadh  Highway,  135 

Gorkha  National  Liberation  Front,  238 

Gorkha  Parishad,  44 

Gorkhapatra  (Gorkha  Newsletter),  33,  178 

Gorkha  Samsar  (Gorkha  World),  36 

government 

Bhutan:  315-23;  employment  in, 
306;  executive  branch,  319-21; 
legislature,  315-19;  local,  xxii, 
322-23;  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  289;  theocratic, 
256-61 

Nepal:  civil  service,  159;  expendi- 
tures, 42;  health  care  provided 
by,  101;  interim,  xvii,  145,  161, 
165-66;  in  1950s,  42-43;  revenue 
sources,  113 
Government  Employees'  Provident  Fund, 
295 

Government  of  Nepal  Constitution  Act 
(1948),  147 

Great  Himalayan  Range,  269,  271 

Grindlays  Bank,  115 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) 

Bhutan:  agriculture  as  percentage  of, 
289,  298;  construction  as  percent- 
age of,  289;  effect  of  political 
violence  on,  328;  electricity  pro- 
duction as  percentage  of,  289; 
forest  industry  as  percentage  of, 
301;  government  services  as  per- 
centage of,  289;  industry  as  per- 
centage of,  303;  manufacturing  as 
percentage  of,  289;  mining  as  per- 
centage of,  303;  in  1977,  291;  in 
1988,  289;  value  of,  291 
Nepal:  agriculture  as  percentage  of, 
122;  foreign  aid  as  percentage  of, 
120;  growth,  112;  industrial  sector 
as  percentage  of,  127 

gross  national  product  (GNP) 
Bhutan:  289 

Nepal:  defense  budget  as  percentage 
of,  209;  foreign  aid  as  percentage 
of,  121;  tax  burden  as  percentage 
of,  114 


Group  of  77 

Bhutan:  334 

Nepal:  xx,  191 
guestworkers 

Bhutan:  from  Nepal,  306 

Nepal:  countries  employed  in,  190; 
remittances  from,  190 
Gupta  emperors,  6 

Gurkha  regiments:  Assam  Rifles,  201; 
Burma  Military  Police,  201 ;  Burma  Ri- 
fles, 201;  designations  of,  201;  Indian 
Armed  Police,  201;  Purano  Gorakh, 
199;  restrictions  on,  204;  Sri  Nath,  199 

Gurkha  soldiers  (see  also  Gorkha),  xviii, 
197,  198-99;  advantages  of  foreign  ser- 
vice by,  223-24;  ethnic  distribution  of, 
79,  199;  remittances  from,  xviii,  176, 
189,  223;  service  by,  in  foreign  armed 
forces,  xviii,  79,  176,  179,  189,  223-25; 
service  by,  in  foreign  conflicts,  201, 
202,  203-4;  as  teachers,  93 

Gurung  people,  76,  79;  religions  of,  90; 
as  Gurkha  soldiers,  199,  200 

Gyetsha  Mini-Hydel,  305 


Hadigaon,  9 

hashish,  82 

Ha  Valley,  271 

health,  public 

Bhutan:  287-89,  334 
Nepal:  34;  foreign  aid  for,  120,  188, 
189,  190;  maternal  and  child,  73; 
survey,  100 

health  care 

Bhutan:  under  development  plans, 
290;  facilities,  288;  immuniza- 
tions, 288;  personnel,  288 
Nepal:  xix,  98,  100-102,  112; 
Ayurvedic,  100,  101;  facilities, 
100-102;  folk,  100-101;  foreign 
aid  for,  119,  121;  for  the  men- 
tally ill,  228;  military,  232; 
modern,  100,  101;  as  percentage 
of  government  expenditures,  42; 
personnel,  101,  102;  practices, 
100;  providing,  112,  113;  for 
women,  86 

Helvetas  (Swiss  Association  for  Techni- 
cal Assistance),  296 

heroin,  82 

Hetauda,  69;  industry  in,  127 
High  Court,  321 


408 


Index 


Hillary,  Sir  Edmond,  138 

Hill  Region,  57,  59-60,  66,  69;  agricul- 
ture in,  123;  elite  class  in,  163;  food 
shortage  in,  59,  100;  migration  from, 
59,  70;  migration  to,  59;  underemploy- 
ment in,  122;  unemployment  in,  122 

Himalayas,  xv,  57,  269;  and  defense 
strategy,  212;  role  of,  in  precipitation, 
61 

Hindi,  76,  274,  276;  publications  in,  178 
Hinduism,  10,  76,  90-91,  284;  and  Bud- 
dhism, 88;  as  official  religion,  xix,  88, 
152,  190 

Hindus:  geographical  distribution  of,  90 
Hindustan  Times,  178 
hippies,  82 
Hodgson,  Brian,  25 
hotels,  138 

House  of  Representatives,  43,  148,  157; 

women  in,  174 
housing 

Bhutan:  280-81,  289 

Nepal:  112 
human  rights 

Bhutan :  xxvii  ,325 

Nepal:  146,  164,  227 
Hutton,  Michael,  xxvii,  xxviii 
hydroelectric  production 

Bhutan:  304-5 

Nepal:  129,  132;  foreign  aid  for,  1 19, 
120,  190;  river  system  as  source 
for,  65;  Tanakpur  project,  xx 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 
immigrants,  illegal,  xxii,  xxvi 
imports 

Bhutan:  297,  298 

Nepal:  auction  system  for,  118;  of 
consumer  goods,  116;  control  of, 
115;  earnings  from,  119;  to  ex- 
ports ratio,  140;  increase  in,  118, 
119;  from  India,  116;  of  petro- 
leum, 132 

IMTRAT.  See  Indian  Military  Training 
Team 

income:  from  agriculture,  42;  distribu- 
tion, 140;  per  capita,  107,  209;  taxes, 
113,  114 

Index  on  Censorship,  xxvii 

India:  aid  to  Bhutan  by,  265,  290,  291, 
292,  295,  304,  330;  aid  to  Royal  Bhu- 
tan Army  by,  335,  337;  border  issues, 


179;  Bhutanese  students  in,  287;  Bhu- 
tan's debt  to,  297;  ideas  imported  into 
Bhutan  from,  324;  influence  on  Nepal 
of,  6;  migration  from,  59;  Nepalese  op- 
position to,  233;  Nepalese  political  agi- 
tation in,  238,  327;  as  protector  of 
Bhutan,  335;  reaction  of,  to  Nepal's 
zone  of  peace  initiative,  182;  reaction 
of,  to  prodemocracy  movement,  146, 
182-83;  trade  agreement  with  Bhutan, 
331;  trade  with  Bhutan,  297 

India-Bhutan  relations,  xxiv,  330-31;  an- 
nual subsidy,  263;  border  issues  in, 
331;  influences  on,  330;  military,  335 

India-Nepal  relations,  xx,  180-83,  185, 
232-36;  arms  supplies  from,  215;  fi- 
nancial aid  from,  119,  133,  146,  181; 
military,  180,  220,  232-36;  military 
training  in,  216,  221;  Nepalese  demon- 
strations against,  51;  during  Sino- 
Indian  border  war,  44;  and  trade  and 
transit  treaty,  43,  51,  115,  139,  235; 
technical  assistance  from,  133;  threat 
by,  212;  trade  with,  107,  116,  118 

Indian  Air  Force,  338 

Indian  Army:  cooperation  of,  with  Roy- 
al Nepal  Army,  233-34;  Gurkha  sol- 
diers in,  xviii,  79,  176,  197,  198,  203, 
205,  224,  338 

Indian  Border  Roads  Organization,  207 

Indian  College  of  Combat,  338 

Indian  Military  Academy,  337,  338,  339 

Indian  Military  Liaison  Group,  220 

Indian  Military  Mission,  220,  233 

Indian  Military  Training  and  Advisory 
Group,  220 

Indian  Military  Training  Team  (IM- 
TRAT), 335,  337 

Indian  National  Congress,  36-37;  Nepa- 
lese collaboration  with,  37 

Indian  National  Defence  Academy,  337 

Indian  Police  Academy,  340 

Indian  School  Certificate  Council,  285 

Indo- Aryan  people,  79 

Indo-Nepalese  people,  xix,  74-76,  77 

Indo-Pakistani  War,  181,  331 

Indo-Soviet  Treaty  of  Peace,  Friendship, 
and  Cooperation  (1971),  181 

Indo-Sri  Lankan  Peace  Agreement 
(1987),  184 

Indrawati  River,  65 

Industrial  Enterprises  Act  (1974),  128 

Industrial  Policy  of  Nepal,  121 


409 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


industry 

Bhutan:  303 

Nepal:  66,  109,  110,  119,  126-29, 
189 

inflation:  in  1980s,  51 
Inner  Himalayas,  269 
Integrated  Fisheries  Development  Proj- 
ect, 300 

Intelsat.  See  International  Telecommuni- 
cations Satellite  Organization 

Interim  Government  of  Nepal  Act  (1951), 
147 

interned  security 

Bhutan:  xxviii,  325-26,  336,  339- 
40 

Nepal:  213-14,  237-39;  as  mission  of 
Royal  Nepal  Army,  197-98 
International  Civil  Aviation  Organiza- 
tion, 191 

International  Committee  of  the  Red 
Cross,  xxviii,  191 

International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Po- 
litical Rights,  228 

International  Development  Association, 
120 

International  Human  Rights  Commis- 
sion, 326 

International  Labour  Organisation,  287, 
306 

International   Lumbini  Development 

Project,  190 
International  Military  Education  Train- 
ing (IMET)  program,  221 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) 
Bhutan:  334 
Nepal:  119,  191 
International  Telecommunications  Satel- 
lite Organization  (Intelsat),  311 
irrigation 

Bhutan:  300 

Nepal:  112,  122,  123;  under  First 
Five- Year  Plan,  109;  foreign  aid 
for,  119,  120;  under  Second  Five- 
Year  Plan,  109;  sources  for,  62, 
65;  Tanakpur  project,  xx 
Islam,  284 


Jackson,  Michael,  55 
jagir,  23,  201 

Jaldhaka  hydroelectric  plant,  304 
Janadoot,  178 


Janakpur  Railway,  135 
Janata  (The  People),  36 
Janata  Dal,  165 
Jan  Morcha,  238 

Japan:  aid  to  Bhutan  by,  295,  296;  aid 
to  Nepal  by,  119,  121,  132,  146; 
Bhutanese  students  in,  287;  imports 
from,  118;  reaction  of,  to  prodemocracy 
movement,  146;  tourists  to  Bhutan 
from,  313;  volunteer  programs,  296 

identification  cards,  328 

IMET.  See  International  Military  Educa- 
tion Training 

Jayajyotirmalla  (king),  12 

Jayaprakasa  of  Kathmandu  (king),  18 

Jayasthitimalla,  12 

Je  Khenpo,  257,  258,  282,  315 

Jesuit  missionaries,  256 

jhankri,  100,  101 

Joshi,  Bhuwan  Lai,  74,  75 

jotishi,  101 

Judicial  Council,  158;  duties  of,  230;  es- 
tablished, 230;  members  of,  230 
Judicial  Service  Commission,  158-59 
judicial  system 

Bhutan:  xxi,  264,  321,  341 

Nepal:  157-59,  228-31 


kaji,  28 

Kali  Gandaki  Valley,  57 
Kali  River,  65 
Kami  caste,  83 

Kanjur  (Collection  of  the  Words  of  the 

Buddha),  282 
Kantavati,  19 
Karnali  River,  60,  65,  132 
Kathmandu,  8,  59,  69;  elite  class  in,  163; 

Gorkha  conquest  of,  17-18;  origins  of, 

11;  population  of,  68;  rainfall  in,  61; 

in  Three  Kingdoms  period,  13,  15; 

united  with  Patan,  13 
Kathmandu  Valley,  55,  59;  ethnic  groups 

in,  76;  urban  population  in,  69 
Kharbandi  Technical  School,  287 
Khasa  kings,  11 
Khasa  people,  5 

Khas  bhasha  (Khasa  language),  13 
Khoprn,  8 

Khoprn grama.  See  Khoprn 
Khulekhani  I,  132 
Khulekhani  II,  132 
Khulekhani  III,  132 


410 


Index 


king  of  Nepal  {see  also  individual  shahs):  and 
armed  forces,  xvi,  xviii;  under  Bud- 
dhism, 5-6;  under  constitution,  43, 
148,  154-55;  judges  appointed  by,  158; 
and  Nepali  Congress  Party,  48;  oppo- 
sition to,  163;  powers  of,  148,  149,  155, 
207-8;  under  Rana  rule,  30;  restora- 
tion of,  xvi,  40;  role  of,  13;  as  supreme 
mili-tary  commander,  155,  198,  205-6, 
208 

King's  Council.  See  Raj  Parishad 
kinship  network,  83 
kira,  278 

Kirata  people,  4,  6 

Kirtipur,  17 

Kodari  Highway,  135 

Kohalpur-Surkhet  Highway,  135 

Koirala,  Bishweshawar  Prasad  (B.P.), 
37-38,  172;  coup  against,  4,  82,  145; 
death  of,  50,  167;  exiled,  44,  166;  im- 
prisoned, 37,  44,  48,  166;  and  king, 
43-44;  released  from  prison,  47,  48; 
speech  by,  to  United  Nations,  43;  visit 
of,  to  China,  43 

Koirala,  Girija  Prasad  (G.P.),  xviii,  xxiv, 
167;  and  military,  206;  as  minister  of 
defense,  208;  as  prime  minister,  168, 
176,  228;  and  Tanakpur  project,  xx 

Koirala,  Matrika  Prasad  (M.P.),  41 

Koligrama,  8 

Koli  people,  9 

Kosi  River,  60,  62,  65,  119,  132 
Kot  Massacre  (1846),  26-27,  146 
Krishna,  91 

Kshatriya,  Indo-Nepalese,  75 
Kuensel,  328 

Kulekhani  hydroelectric  projects,  132 
Kulha  Gangri,  269 
Kumaon,  21 

Kunwar,  Bala  Narasimha,  28 

Kunwar,  Jagat  Jang,  30 

Kunwar  (Rana),  Jang  Bahadur,  xv,  26, 
200;  administration  under,  27-32,  34, 
146;  education  under,  93;  legal  code 
under,  29-30,  228-29 

Kurichu,  305 

Kuwait:  financial  aid  from,  132,  190; 

guestworkers  in,  190;  loans  from,  119 
Kyichu,  254 


labor  and  work  force 

Bhutan:  289,  303,  306,  322 


Nepal:  121-22,  127 
labor  unions 

Bhutan:  306 

Nepal:  37,  121,  122 
Lakshmidevi  (queen),  26 
Lalitpur.  See  Patan 
land 

Bhutan:  arable,  298;  availability  of, 
289 

Nepal:  division  of  holdings,  83;  in- 
dividual ownership  of,  79,  140; 
shortage  of,  67;  social  importance 
of,  84;  tax  on,  113-14 
Land  and  Cultivation  Record  Compila- 
tion Act  (1956),  124 
landholdings,  279 
landlords,  23,  124 
land  reform 

Bhutan:  264 

Nepal:  47,  124-25 
Land  Reform  Act  (1964)  (Nepal),  125 
Land  Reform  Savings  Corporation,  114 
Land  Revenue  Office,  34 
Lands  Act  (1957),  124 
landslides,  62 
language 

Bhutan:  xxviii,  275-76 

Nepal:  81 
Lapchekha  Agriculture  Farm,  338 
Law  Book  Management  Board,  229 
legal  code 

Bhutan:  257,  341 

Nepal:  12,  29,  228-29 
legislature,  155-57 
Lepcha  people,  274 
Levi,  Sylvain,  7 

Lhasa:  Bhutanese  petition  to,  259;  Brit- 
ish mission  to,  261;  Chinese  in,  332; 
Nepal's  disputes  with,  20 

Lhengye  Tshokdu.  See  State  Council 

Lhomon,  xxi,  254 

Lhomon  Khashi,  254 

Lhomon  Tsendenjong,  254 

Lhotsam  language,  276 

Liberation  Army,  39 

Lichavi  Dynasty,  6-9 

Likhu  Khola  River,  65 

Limbu  people,  77;  as  Gurkha  soldiers, 
199,  200;  religions  of,  90 

Limbu  wan  Mukli  Morcha.  See  Freedom 
Front  of  the  Limbu  People 

literacy 

Bhutan:  xxiii,  286,  328 


411 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Nepal:  140,  178;  for  men,  xix,  94, 
97;  in  military,  219;  in  rural  areas, 
97;  in  urban  areas,  97;  for  women, 
xix,  86,  87,  94,  97 
livestock 

Bhutan:  289,  299-300,  334 
Nepal:  59,  60,  77 
loans 

Bhutan:  domestic,  294-95 
Nepal:  56,  119;  from  Kuwait,  119; 
from  Saudi  Arabia,  119 


Madi  River,  65 

Magar  people,  15,  76-77;  as  Gurkha  sol- 
diers, 199,  200;  religions  of,  90 

Mahabharat  Lekh,  59 

Maha  Kali  River,  65 

Maha  Sabha.  See  Upper  House 

Mahendra,  Bir  Bikram  Shah  Dev  (king). 
See  Shah  Dev,  Mahendra  Bir  Bikram 

Mahendra  Highway,  47,  119,  133,  135, 
212 

Maithili  language,  13,  81 
malaria,  47 

Maldives:  aid  from  Bhutan  to,  296; 

Nepal's  relations  with,  184 
Malla  Dynasty,  3,  10-12 
Manadeva  I,  6 

Manandhar,  Bishnu  Bahadur,  170 

Manas  Chhu,  271 

Manesvari,  12 

Mangde  Chhu,  271 

manufacturing,  289 

Maratha  people,  21 

marijuana,  82 

marriage 

Bhutan:  278-79,  325 

Nepal:  arranged,  101;  intercaste, 
80;  interethnic,  275;  migration 
for,  71 
Marsyandi  River,  65 
Masai  party,  173 
Matribhumi,  1 78 
Mauryan  Empire,  5-6 
media 

Bhutan:  328 

Nepal:  176-79 
Middle  East,  297 

migrants:  Indian,  75;  Indo-Aryan,  79; 

Tibetan,  79 
migration 

Bhutan:  70;  regulation  of,  327-28 


Nepal:  67-72,  84;  of  ethnic  groups, 
77;  from  Hill  Region,  59,  69; 
from  India,  59,  69;  to  India,  70; 
lifetime  regional,  70-71;  perma- 
nent, 69-70;  seasonal,  59,  60,  69- 
70,  71-72;  to  the  Tarai,  47;  from 
Tibet,  59,  69 
military  justice,  225-26 
military  officers,  159;  disciplinary  pow- 
ers of,  225 
millet 

Bhutan:  124 
Nepal:  298 
minerals  and  mining 
Bhutan:  303 
Nepal:  128-29 
Ministry  of  Communications  (Bhutan), 
308,  319,  328;  Department  of  Informa- 
tion, 328;  Department  of  Posts,  308; 
Department  of  Telecommunications, 
308,  311 
Ministry  of  Defence  (India),  336 
Ministry  of  Defence  (Nepal),  206,  208 
Ministry  of  Education  (Nepal),  94-96 
Ministry  of  Finance  (Bhutan),  294,  319 
Ministry  of  Finance  (Nepal),  114 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  (Bhutan),  319 
Ministry  of  Home  Affairs  (Bhutan),  328 
Ministry  of  Home  Affairs  (Nepal),  227, 
228 

Ministry  of  Labor  and  Social  Services 

(Nepal),  121 
Ministry  of  Local  Development  (Nepal), 

161 

Ministry  of  Social  Services  (Bhutan),  319 
Ministry  of  Trade,  Industry,  and  Tour- 
ism (Bhutan),  312,  319 
missionaries,  15,  18 
Mithila,  9 
Mo  Chhu,  269,  271 
modernization 

Bhutan:  273 

Nepal:  48-51 
monarchy,    313-15;    established,  xxi, 

261-62,  313;  forms  of,  253 
money 

Bhutan:  293-94 

Nepal:  115-16 
monsoons 

Bhutan:  270,  271 

Nepal:  61-62 
Monyul,  xxi,  254;  invasion  of  Duars,  254 
Morrison  Knudsen  Corporation,  188 


412 


Index 


Mountain  Region,  57-59;  food  short- 
age in,  59,  100;  migration  from,  70; 
percentage  of  population  living  in,  66, 
69;  population  growth  in,  66 

Mount  Everest,  xv,  57,  76 

Movement  for  the  Restoration  of  De- 
mocracy, 152;  activities  of,  xvi,  145;  at- 
tempts to  suppress,  146;  communists 
in,  169;  elite  class  in,  163;  goals  of,  xvii, 
160;  inspiration  for,  xxvi,  164,  165;  in- 
ternational reaction  to,  146,  182-83, 
188,  190;  military's  role  in,  197,  213, 
220,  239;  police  role  in,  228;  press  sup- 
port for,  177;  ramifications  of,  164 

Mughal  Dynasty,  13-14 

Mukti  Sena.  See  Liberation  Army 

Mul  Chok,  12 

Mullick  Commission,  165 

Muluki  Ain  (1854),  29-30,  47,  228-29 

Muslims,  152 


Nagrik  Adhikar  Samiti,  36 
Namgyal,  Ngawang,  256,  257-58 
Narayani  River,  43,  60,  62,  65,  132,  176 
narcotics,  82 
Nation,  xxvii 

National  Assembly,  xxi,  xxv,  xxviii,  263, 
265,  315-19;  Buddhist  representation 
in,  282;  established,  263,  314 
National  Awakening  Week,  51 
National  Board  of  Secondary  Education, 
286 

National  Commercial  Bank.  See  Rastriya 
Banijya  Bank 

National  Commission  for  Trade  and  In- 
dustry, 295 

National  Council,  157 

National  Day,  314 

National  Defence  Council,  155,  206-7, 
209 

National  Democratic  Party  (Chand),  171, 
174 

National  Democratic  Party  (Thapa),  171 , 
174 

National  Democratic  Unity  Panchayat 
Party,  171 

National  Education  Advisory  Board,  94 

National  Education  Plan,  96 

National  Education  Planning  Commis- 
sion, 94 

National  Election  Observation  Com- 


mittee, 176 
National  Independent  Student  Council, 
162 

National  Institute  of  Family  Health,  289 
National  Insurance  Corporation.  See  Ras- 
triya Beema  Sansthan 
National  Mongol  Organization,  170 
National  Panchayat.  See  Rashtriya  Pan- 
chayat 

National  People's  Liberation  Front,  170 
National  Planning  Commission,  109,  122 
national  security 

Bhutan:  335-41 

Nepal:  207,  208,  211-14,  231-39 
National  Security  Act  (1992),  xxv 
National  Warm  Water  Fish  Culture 

Centre,  300 
National  Women's  Association  of  Bhu- 
tan, 280 

Natural  Resources  Training  Institute,  296 
Negi,  Sharad  Singh,  61 
Nehru,  Jawaharlal,  36,  233,  330 
Nepal,  ancient,  4-9,  256;  Buddhism  in, 

5;  early  influences  on,  4-6 
Nepal,  medieval,  9-15 
Nepal,  modern:  China's  claim  to,  332; 
territories  annexed  by,  21-22;  trade 
with  Bhutan,  297 
Nepal  Act  Series,  229 
Nepal  Aid  Group,  120 
Nepal  Arab  Bank,  114-15 
Nepal  Bank  Limited,  114 
Nepal-Bhutan  Friendship  and  Cultural 

Society,  333 
Nepal  Civil  Service  Act  (1956),  159 
Nepal  Companies  Act  (1936),  127,  128 
Nepal  Democratic  Congress  (see  also 

Nepali  Congress  Party),  38,  39 
Nepal  Electricity  Authority,  xxvi 
Nepalese  in  Bhutan,  xxii,  184,  273,  275; 
arrested,  327;  deported,  327;  interna- 
tional reaction  to,  326-27;  as  percen- 
tage of  population,  253,  275;  political 
activities  of,  339;  protest  against  driglam 
namzha  by,  325 
Nepalese  Police  Force,  159,  198,  213, 

226-28,  237 
Nepalese  Society.  See  Nepali  Sangh 
Nepal  Ex-servicemen's  Organization,  150 
Nepal  Family  Planning  and  Maternal 

Child  Health  Board,  72-73 
Nepal  Family  Planning  Association,  72 
Nepal  Food  Corporation,  140 


413 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Nepalganj,  127 

Nepal  Government  Railway,  135-36 

Nepal  Grindlays  Bank,  115 

Nepali  Congress  Party,  39,  164,  166-68, 
326;  alliances  of,  with  other  parties,  xvi, 
44;  convention  of,  164-65;  economic 
program  of,  167;  elites  in,  163;  in  ex- 
ile, 145,  166;  factions  in,  163,  167;  for- 
eign policy  of,  167;  government  under, 
198;  and  military,  205;  in  1959  elec- 
tion, 166;  in  1981  election,  167,  171; 
in  1986  election,  172;  in  1991  election, 
xvii,  174,  238;  in  1992  election,  xviii; 
opposition  of,  to  monarchy,  163;  polit- 
ical protests  organized  by,  44,  167,  172, 
213;  reaction  of,  to  National  Pan- 
chayat,  46;  reconciliation  of,  with 
monarchy,  48;  schism  in,  47 

Nepali  language:  in  Bhutan,  xxii,  xxviii, 
276,  286,  325;  broadcasts  in,  179, 
312,  328;  in  Gurkha  regiments,  217; 
history  of,  13;  as  language  of  in- 
struction, xxii,  93,  286;  as  national 
language,  76,  81,  152;  publications  in, 
178,  328 

Nepali  National  Congress  (see  also  Nepa- 
li Congress  Party),  37,  38,  39,  42,  148 

Nepal  Indosuez  Bank,  115 

Nepal  Industrial  Board,  34 

Nepal  Industrial  Development  Corpora- 
tion, 114,  120 

Nepal  Investment  Forum,  xxvi 

Nepali  Rashtriya  Congress.  See  Nepali 
National  Congress 

Nepali  Sangh,  37 

Nepal  Janahit  Party.  See  Nepal  Welfare 
Party 

Nepal  Journalists  Association,  177 

Nepal  Kanoon  Patriki,  229 

Nepal  Kirat  Adhibasi  Janajiti  Morcha.  See 

Front  of  the  Kirat  Aborigines 
Nepal  Nationalist  Gorkha  Parishad,  170 
Nepal  Panchayat  Council,  171 
Nepal  Panchayat  Parishad.  See  Nepal 

Panchayat  Council 
Nepal  Plywood  and  Bobbin  Company,  34 
Nepal  Police  Act  (1955),  226 
Nepal  Prajatantrik  Congress.  See  Nepal 

Democratic  Congress 
Nepal  Press  Digest,  77 
Nepal  Raj  Patra,  113,  159,  229 
Nepal  Rashtrabadi  Gorkha  Parishad.  See 

Nepal  Nationalist  Gorkha  Parishad 


Nepal  Rashtriya  Jana  Mukti  Morcha.  See 

National  People's  Liberation  Front 
Nepal  Rastra  Bank,  115 
Nepal  Sadbhavana  Party,  170,  174 
Nepal  Standard  Industrial  Classification 

(1986-87),  127 
Nepal  Tarai  Association,  170 
Nepal  Tarai  Muslim  Congress  Party,  170 
Nepal  Tarai  Unity  Forum,  170 
Nepal  Television  Corporation,  138,  178 
Nepal  Trade  Union  Congress,  168 
Nepal  Welfare  Party,  171 
Nepal  Workers'  Organization,  150 
Nepal  Youth  Organization,  150 
Neupane,  S.K.,  326 
New  Approach  to  Primary  Education, 
287 

Newari  era,  9 

Newari  language,  9,  12,  13,  81;  publica- 
tions in,  178 

Newari  people,  9,  20,  76,  77;  caste  sys- 
tem of,  80;  languages  of,  81;  occupa- 
tions of,  77-79;  religions  of,  90; 
women's  status  among,  86 

New  Education  System,  94 

newspapers,  36,  177-78 

Newsweek,  178 

New  Zealand:  aid  to  Bhutan  by,  296;  aid 
to  Nepal  by,  119;  Bhutanese  students 
in,  287;  volunteer  programs,  296 

Ngalopkha  language,  276 

Ngalop  people,  xxii 

Nonaligned  Movement,  152;  Bhutan's 
membership  in,  329,  334;  Nepal's 
membership  in,  xx,  xxiv,  234;  Nepal's 
zone  of  peace  announcement  to,  179; 
summits  of,  179,  191,  331 

nonalignment  policy,  180,  190-91 

Ochterlony,  David,  21,  22 

Office  of  Accounts,  33 

OPEC .  See  Organization  of  the  Petrole- 
um Exporting  Countries 

Open  General  License,  118 

Organization  and  Control  Act  (1963),  122 

Organization  of  the  Petroleum  Exporting 
Countries  (OPEC):  assistance  from, 
xxiii-xxiv,  121 

Padmasambhava  (see  also  Rimpoche): 
arrival  in  Bhutan,  254-55 


414 


Index 


Pahar.  See  Hill  Region 

Pahari  people,  76,  77,  79;  caste  system 
of,  80;  in  elite  class,  88;  languages  of, 
81;  women's  status  among,  86 

Pakistan:  military  training  of  Nepalese  in, 
221;  Nepal's  relations  with,  43,  183-84, 
220;  Nepal's  trade  and  transit  agree- 
ment with,  183-84 

Pamirs,  58 

Panchayat  Constitution.  See  constitution 
of  1962 

panchayat  system,  xvi,  44-48,  82,  145,  147, 
149,  159-61,  161-66;  and  develop- 
ment, 110;  ended,  xvii,  145,  152; 
opposition  to,  xvi,  48,  49,  165;  pro- 
fessional organizations  under,  162; 
referendum  on,  48,  49,  150,  171; 
under  Third  Five- Year  Plan,  109 

Panchen  Lama,  20,  259 

Pande,  Damodar,  19 

Pande,  Rana  Jang,  25 

Pande  family,  20,  25;  in  Kot  Massacre, 
27 

Parbat.  See  Mountain  Region 
Parbate  people,  76 

Parishad.  See  Nepal  Nationalist  Gorkha 
Parishad 

Parliament  (see  also  Rashtriya  Panchayat), 

xxvi,  148,  155;  powers  of,  208 
parma,  84 
Paro  airport,  308 
Paro  Valley,  271 
Pashupatinath,  10,  18 
pastoralism,  59 
pastoralists,  77 
Pataliputra,  6 

Patan:  ancient,  8-9;  Gorkha  conquest  of, 
1;  industry  in,  127;  medieval,  12;  ori- 
gins of,  11;  population  of,  68;  in  Three 
Kingdoms  period,  13,  15;  united  with 
Kathmandu,  13 

patron-client  relationship:  between 
monarch  and  armed  forces,  xvi,  82; 
breakdown  in,  56 

Peace  Corps,  188 

peasants,  84,  87 

Pemadechen  (dowager  queen):  lifestyle  of, 
314 

penal  code,  342 

Penden  Cement  Authority,  303 
People's  Council.  See  Praja  Parishad 
People's  Front.  See  Jan  Morcha 
People's  Party.  See  Janata  Dal 


petroleum,  132,  133 
Phajo  Drugom  Shigpo,  255 
Pharping  Hydroelectric  Company,  34 
Pho  Chhu,  271 

Phuntsholing,  270;  as  municipal  corpo- 
ration, 323;  population  of,  273 
Planning  Commission,  290,  337 
Pokhara,  69;  industry  in,  127 
Pokhara  Valley,  61 

police.  See  Nepalese  Police  Force;  Royal 
Bhutan  Police  Police  Day,  340 

Police  Executive  Development  Course, 
340 

Police  Training  Centre,  340 
political  demonstrations,  xvi,  xxii-xxiii, 
47-48,  145,  172;  casualties  in,  214; 
against  India,  51;  military's  role  in, 
213-14;  of  prodemocracy  movement, 
xvii-xviii,  145,  165,  167,  214;  suppres- 
sion of,  165 
political  parties,  163,  166-71;  banned, 
xvi,  44,  145,  149,  150,  161,  166;  in 
1991  election,  xvii;  formed,  xvi;  growth 
of,  36-38;  legalized,  xvii,  145,  165;  in 
prodemocracy  movement,  146;  rights 
of,  154;  underground  operation  of, 
161-62 
political  violence 
Bhutan:  325-27 
Nepal:  xvii,  172,  175,  237-38 
Polyani,  Karl,  56 
population 

Bhutan:  334;  age  distribution  in, 
272;  density,  273;  Nepalese  as 
percentage  of,  xxii,  253;  in  1969, 
272;  in  1980,  272;  in  1988,  272; 
in  1990,  xxi,  272;  percentage  of, 
involved  in  agriculture,  298,  305; 
percentage  of,  practicing  Bud- 
dhism, 282;  of  Phuntsholing, 
273;  projected,  272;  of  Thimphu, 
273;  urban,  273 
Nepal:  density,  59,  67;  distribution 
of,  66;  ethnic  distribution  in,  81; 
in  Hill  Region,  66;  in  Mountain 
Region,  66;  in  1930s,  34;  in  1981, 
65;  in  1990,  xix,  xxi;  percentage 
of,  in  poverty,  209;  in  2001,  66; 
in  Tarai  Region,  66 
population  statistics 

Bhutan:  birth  rate,  272;  death  rate, 
272,  288;  fertility  rate,  272; 
growth  rate,  272;  life  expectancy, 


415 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


273;   mortality   rate,    272;  sex 
ratio,  272 
Nepal:  birth  rate,  66,  67;  death 
rate,  66,  67;  dependence  ratio, 
66;  fertility  rate,  66-67;  growth 
rate,  66,  67,  70,  112,  140;  infant 
mortality  rate,  42,  67,  98,  112-13; 
life  expectancy,  42,  65,  98,  112; 
mortality  rate,  66-67;  sex  ratio,  66 
Portuguese  missionaries,  256 
postage  stamps,  311 
postal  service 

Bhutan:  308,  311 
Nepal:  42,  137 
poverty,  56,  98;  under  Fifth  Five- Year 
Plan,  110;  population  living  in,  209; 
rural,  84 
Pradhan,  Sahana,  170 
Praja  Parishad,  36;  revitalized,  41 
Pratinidhi  Sabha.  See  House  of  Represen- 
tatives 
precipitation 

Bhutan:  270,  271 
Nepal:  61,  63 
prime  minister:  under  constitution,  43; 

hereditary  succession  to,  30 
prisoners  of  conscience,  xxvii 
prisons,  xxvii,  228 
Prithvi  Highway,  135 
private  sector,  289-90 
prodemocracy  movement.  See  Movement 

for  the  Restoration  of  Democracy 
professional  organizations:  under  pan- 

chayat  system,  162 
public  enterprises,  140 
Public  Security  Act,  177 
Public  Service  Commission,  159 
Punakha,  257 
Puna  Tsang  Chhu,  271 
punishment:  capital,  153;  caste  distinc- 
tions in,  30;  corporal,  29 

Qing  Empire,  179;  tribute  to,  21,  31 

radio 

Bhutan:  312 

Nepal:  138,  178-79 
Raigye  Chhu,  271 
railroads,  42,  135-36,  212 
rainfall 

Bhutan:  301 


Nepal:  61 

Rai  people,  76,  77;  as  Gurkha  soldiers, 

199,  200;  religions  of,  90 
Rajendralakshmi  (queen),  18,  28 
Raj  Parishad,  155 
Rajputana,  15 
rajya,  43 

Ramamalla  (king),  12 
Rana,  Gadul  Shumsher  Jang  Bahadur, 
206 

Rana,  Jang  Bahadur  Kunwar.  See  Kun- 
war  (Rana),  Jang  Bahadur 

Rana,  Nir  Shumsher  Jang  Bahadur,  206 

Rana,  Ram  Krishna,  18 

Rana  Dynasty,  xv,  3,  26-41;  and  Gur- 
khas, 197,  204 

Ranajit  of  Bhadgaon  (king),  17,  18 

Rana  oligarchy,  32-36,  146-47;  econo- 
my under,  108;  external  opposition  to, 
37;  overthrown,  81,  147 

Rapti  River,  65 

Rapti  Valley,  60 

Rashtriya  Mongol  Sanghatan.  See 
National  Mongol  Organization 

Rashtriya  Panchayat,  46,  149-50,  160; 
dissolved,  xvii,  165;  elections  to,  46,  49, 
150;  factions  in,  50;  membership  of,  48, 
171;  military  under,  205-6;  terms  in, 
150;  women  in,  173 

Rashtriya  Prajatantrik  Ekata  Panchayat 
Party.  See  National  Democratic  Unity 
Panchayat  Party 

Rashtriya  Sabha.  See  National  Council 

Rashtriya  Sambad  Samity,  176 

Rashtriya  Swatantra  Vidyarthi  Parishad. 
See  National  Independent  Student 
Council 

Rastra  Pukar,  178 

Rastriya  Beema  Sansthan,  115 

Rastriya  Banijya  Bank,  114,  115 

Ratnamalla  (king),  12 

Rayamalla  (king),  12 

Reagan,  Ronald,  188 

referendum  of  1980,  48,  49,  150-52,  171 

Reform  Commission,  48 

refugees:  camps,  xxiv-xxv;  problems, 
xxiv,  xxv,  xxvi,  xxvii,  238,  275;  from 
Tibet,  329,  332 

Regional  Center  for  Peace  and  Disarma- 
ment in  South  Asia,  191 

Regmi,  Dilli  Raman,  7 

religion 

Bhutan:  281-84 


416 


Index 


Nepal:  (see  also  under  individual  sects), 
xix,  88-92;  freedom  of,  152 
remittances:  foreign  exchange  from,  xviii, 

176,  223;  from  guestworkers,  190;  from 

Gurkha  soldiers,  xviii,  176,  223 
Reserve  Bank  of  India,  294 
revolution  of  1950,  38-41,  147;  education 

as  catalyst  for,  93;  role  of  military  in, 

205 
rice 

Bhutan:  270,  274,  298,  299 

Nepal:  123-24 
Rimpoche  (guru)  (see  also  Padmasambha- 

va),  254-55 
Ripumalla,  1 1 
Rising  Nepal,  178 
river  systems 

Bhutan:  271 

Nepal:  62-65 
Rizal,  Teknath,  327 
roads 

Bhutan:  306-8;  construction  of,  264, 
306-7,  336;  under  development 
plans,  290 
Nepal:  42,  107,  133-35,  212;  con- 
struction of,  109,  133,  186;  foreign 
aid  for,  119,   120,  188;  under 
Second  Five- Year  Plan,  109 
Rolls  of  Succession:  established,  30;  modi- 
fied, 33 
ropeways,  136 
Rose,  Leo  E.,  74,  75 
Royal  Advisory  Council,  xxi,  318,  319; 

Buddhist  representation  in,  282 
Royal  Body  Guards,  337,  338 
Royal  Bhutan  Airlines,  136,  308,  312 
Royal  Bhutan  Army,  xxiii,  264,  336-38; 
arms  supplies,  335,  337;  civil  defense 
by,  325-26,  339;  conscription,  336; 
Druk  Gyalpo  as  supreme  commander, 
336;  established,  336;  militia,  339;  mis- 
sion of,  xxiii,  336;  organization  of, 
336-37;  personnel,  xxiii,  336;  recruit- 
ment for,  338;  reorganization,  336; 
retirement,  338;  self-sufficiency  in,  338; 
training  of,  335,  337,  339 
Royal  Bhutan  Police,  xxiii,  340 
Royal  Bhutan  Polytechnic,  287 
Royal  Civil  Service  Commission,  321, 
323 

Royal  Dutch  Shell,  133 

Royal  Guards  Brigade,  215 

Royal  Insurance  Corporation  of  Bhutan, 


295,  307 
Royal  Manas  National  Park,  302 
Royal  Nepal  Airlines,  136,  216 
Royal  Nepal  Army:  aid-to-the-civil- 
power,  213,  220;  benefits,  219;  brigades 
in,  214,  215;  capabilities,  214-16; 
casualties  in,  202;  conditions  in,  201-2, 
205;  under  constitution,  205-8;  cooper- 
ation of,  with  Indian  Army,  233-34; 
defense  plan,  211-12;  dispositions, 
214-16,  217;  equipment,  197,  215;  eth- 
nic groups  in,  216;  headquarters  staff, 
209;  health  conditions  in,  219,  232;  his- 
tory of,  197;  insignia  of,  221;  king  as 
commander  of,  148,  155,  198,  205-6, 
208;  languages  in,  217;  missions  of, 
197-98,  211-15;  modernization  of, 
201,  233;  and  monarchy,  xvi,  xviii,  82; 
morale,  219;  and  national  defense, 
211-12;  and  Nepali  Congress  Party, 
205;  officer  training,  220-21;  organiza- 
tion of,  197,  206,  208-9,  214;  pay 
scales,  218-19;  promotions  in,  201; 
rank  structure  of,  221-23;  recruitment, 
199-200,  202,  216-19;  religious  ele- 
ment in,  218;  reserves,  217;  resource 
constraints  on,  209,  215;  resupply  oper- 
ations, 231-32;  role  of,  in  national  secu- 
rity, 207;  role  of,  in  prodemocracy 
movement,  213,  214,  239;  role  of,  in 
society,  198-200,  239;  role  of,  in  World 
War  I,  34-36;  schools,  220;  senior 
officer  corps,  221;  term  of  enlistment, 
218;  training,  197,  219-21;  women  in, 
218 

Royal  Nepal  Army  Air  Service,  215-16 
Royal  Nepal  Military  Academy,  221 
Royal  Secretariat,  319;  officials  of,  321 
rural  areas 

Bhutan:  development  in,  292,  334 
Nepal:  83-84;  development  in,  112; 
education  in,  98;  electricity  for, 
132;  elite  class  in,  163;  family 
planning  in,  73;  foreign  aid  to, 
188;  health  care  in,  101-2; 
housing  in,  112;  literacy  rates  in, 
97;  political  alignments  in,  50; 
population  statistics  for,  67,  83; 
poverty  in,  84;  women  in,  86 

SAARC.  See  South  Asian  Association  for 
Regional  Cooperation 


417 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Sagarmatha.  See  Mount  Everest 
Sakya  clan,  5 
Samaya,  178 
Samdrup  Jongkhar,  270 
Samichhya,  178 
Samudragupta,  6 
Samyuktha  Mukti  Bahini,  237 
Samyukti  Parjatantra  Party.  See  United 
Democratic  Party  Sanskritization,  80 
Sapkota,  Devi  Prasad,  36 
Sapt  Kosi.  See  Kosi  River 
Sarki  caste,  83-84 

Saudi  Arabia:  financial  aid  from,  132, 

133;  loans  from,  119 
Save  the  Children  Federation,  188 
School  Leaving  Certificate  examination, 

96,  97 
schools 

Bhutan:  262,  284-87 
Nepal:  34,  92-94,  96-98;  enrollment 
levels,  xix,  xxiii,  94,  96;  Nepa- 
li-language, 33;  palace,  32 
Second  Buddha.  See  Padmasambhava; 

Rimpoche 
Senate,  148 

Sepoy  Rebellion,  260;  Gurkha  soldiers  in, 

200-201;  support  for,  31-32 
service  sector:  employment  in,  66 
SETAMAGURALI,  170 
Seti  River,  65 

Seventh  Day  Adventists,  188 
shabdrung  system,  341;  ended,  262;  estab- 
lished, 256;  succession  under,  257-58 
Shah,  Bahadur,  19,  257 
Shah,  Dravya  (king),  xv,  15  199 
Shah,  Girvan  Yuddha,  19 
Shah,  Nar  Bhupal,  17 
Shah,  Pratap  Singh  (king),  18 
Shah,  Prithvi  Bir  Bikram  (king),  32 
Shah,  Prithvi  Narayan,  17,  22,  180;  ac- 
tivities of,  17,  33,  199;  accession  of,  18 
Shah,  Rajendra  Bikram  (king),  25;  exile 

of,  28 
Shah,  Ram,  15 

Shah,  Rana  Bahadur  (king),  18 
Shah,  Surendra  Bikram  (king),  26,  28,  32 
Shah,  Tribhuvan  Bir  Bikram,  39 
Shah,  Trilokya  Bir  Bikram,  31 
Shah  Dev,  Birendra  Bir  Bikram  (king): 
accession  of,  47;  constitutional  amend- 
ments by,  150;  military  under,  197; 
modernization  under,  48;  Parliament 
suspended  by,  xxvi;  political  parties 


legalized  by,  165;  visit  to  United  States 
by,  188;  zone  of  peace  declared  by,  179 

Shah  Dev,  Dipendra  Bir  Bikram  (crown 
prince),  221 

Shah  Dev,  Mahendra  Bir  Bikram  (king): 
xvi,  4,  43,  47,  148;  bureaucracy  ex- 
panded by,  88;  development  under,  47; 
government  dissolved  by,  44,  145;  and 
B.P.  Koirala,  43-44;  land  reform  un- 
der, 47;  military  under,  197;  nonalign- 
ment  under,  180;  palace  coup  by,  44, 
145;  panchayat  system  under,  44-48;  re- 
form under,  81-82;  role  of,  46;  visit  to 
China  by,  236 

Shah  Dynasty,  xvi,  20;  end  of,  25;  estab- 
lished, 199;  and  Gurkhas,  197,  199; 
marriages  of,  with  Ranas,  30 

Shamsher,  Bhim,  34 

Shamsher,  Bir,  32;  as  prime  minister,  32 

Shamsher,  Dev,  33 

Shamsher,  Juddha,  33,  38 

Shamsher,  Mohan,  38,  39 

Shamsher,  Subarna,  46,  47 

Shamsher  Rana,  Chandra,  33,  36;  mili- 
tary under,  201;  police  under,  226;  Tri- 
Chandra  College  established  by,  92 

Shamsher  Rana,  Padma:  reforms  by,  38, 
147;  resignation  of,  147 

Shams  ud-din  Ilyas  (sultan),  11 

Sharchopkha  language,  276;  broadcasts 
in,  312,  328 

Sharchop  people,  xxii,  273-74 

Shekhar,  Chandra,  165 

Sherpa,  Tensing,  138 

Sherpa  people,  76,  79 

Sherubtse  College,  287 

Shigatse,  20 

Shiva,  91 

Shreshtha,  Dr.  B.P.,  140 

Shrestha,  Marich  Man  Singh,  50,  173 

Siddhartha  Gautama  {see  also  Buddha),  5, 
190;  background  of,  91-92 

Siddhartha  Highway,  135 

Siddhartha  Nagar,  69 

Sikh  people,  21 

Sikh  War,  Second,  189 

Sikkim,  266;  in  Anglo- Nepalese  War,  22; 
Bhutan's  invasion  of,  258,  260;  Bhu- 
tan's relations  with,  266;  China's  claim 
to,  332;  Nepal's  invasion  of,  20 

Sindhuli-Bargachi  Highway,  135 

Singapore:  Bhutanese  police  trained  in, 
340;  Gurkha  soldiers  in,  xviii,  198, 


418 


Index 


224-25;  trade  with  Bhutan,  297 
Singh,  Abhiman,  26,  27 
Singh,  Gagan,  26 
Singh,  Ganeshman,  48 
Singh,  Ranjit,  21 

Singh,  Ranoddip:  military  under,  201;  as 

prime  minister,  32 
Singh,  Thakur  Chandan,  36 
Sino-Indian  border  war  (1962),  44,  186, 

234,  332-33 
Sino-Nepal  Boundary  Treaty  (1961),  186 
Sino-Nepalese  Treaty  (1792),  185,  236 
Sino-Nepal  Joint  Commission,  186 
Sivasimhamalla,  13 
Siwalik  Hills,  269 
Siwalik  Range,  59,  50 
Socialist  Liberation  Army.  See  Samyuk- 

tha  Mukti  Bahini 
social  services,  xix,  109,  110,  113 
Solarz,  Stephen,  188-89 
Somes varadeva,  9-10 
South  Asian  Association  for  Regional 

Cooperation  (SAARC) 
Bhutan:  xxvi,  329,  334 
Nepal:  xx,  xxiv,  xxvi,  50,  146,  179, 
234 

Secretariat:  192,  329 
Southern  Hills.  See  Siwalik  Hills 
Soviet  Union:  aid  to  Nepal  from,  119, 
126,   133,   146,   189;  relations  with 
Nepal,  43,  189-90,  220;  support  of,  for 
zone  of  peace  initiative,  190 
Sri  Lanka:  Nepal's  relations  with,  184 
Srongtsen  Gampo  (king),  254 
standard  of  living 
Bhutan:  289 
Nepal:  112 
State  Bank  of  India,  294 
State  Council,  257 
Statesman,  178 

State  Trading  Corporation  of  Bhutan, 
295 

State  Treasury,  33 

strikes:  general,  xvii,  165;  military's  role 

in,  213-14;  student,  47 
Structural  Adjustment  Program,  112, 

118-19 

student  demonstrations,  47,  51,  162,  172 
stupas 

Bhutan:  282,  283 

Nepal:  5,  9 
Sudra  caste,  80 
suffrage,  43,  157 


Sun  River,  65 

Sunwar  people,  90 

Supreme  Court,  148,  158,  159 

Supreme  Court  Act  (1952),  230 

Supreme  Court  of  Appeal,  xxi,  321 

Surkhet  Valley,  60 

suttee,  34 

Svayambhunath,  9 

Switzerland:  aid  to  Bhutan  by,  296;  aid 
to  Nepal  by,  119,  133,  190 

Taiping  Rebellion,  31 
Taleju.  See  Manesvari 
Tamang  language,  81 
Tamang  people,  76,  81;  as  Gurkha  sol- 
diers, 200 
Tama  River,  65 
Tamur  River,  65 

Tanakpur  project:  controversy  over,  xx, 

xxvi;  rejection  of,  xxv 
Tarai  people,  5 
Tarai  Plain,  57 

Tarai  Region,  5,  57;  agriculture  in,  123; 
ceded  to  Britain,  23;  climate  of,  60,  61; 
elite  class  in,  163;  etymology,  60;  Indo- 
Nepalese  in,  75;  migration  to,  47,  122; 
military  recruitment  in,  216;  percent- 
age of  population  living  in,  66,  69; 
population  growth  in,  66,  70;  returned 
by  Britain,  23,  322;  rivers  in,  65; 
underemployment  in,  122;  unemploy- 
ment in,  122 
Tarun  Gorkha  (Young  Gorkha),  36 
Tashichhodzong,  266,  314,  315,  318 
Tashi  Commercial  Corporation,  303 
tax  collectors,  23 
taxes 

Bhutan:  257 
Nepal:  113-14 
teachers 

Bhutan:  286 
Nepal:  xviii,  96 
Tej  Narasimha  (king),  18 
telegraph,  312 
telephones 

Bhutan:  311 
Nepal:  42,  109,  138 
television 

Bhutan:  312 
Nepal:  138,  179-80 
telex,  311 

Tenjur  (Collection  of  Commentaries),  282 
Thakali  people,  90 


419 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


Thakuri  people,  79;  as  Gurkha  soldiers, 
199,  200 

Thapa,  Amar  Singh,  21,  200 

Thapa,  Bhimsen,  19,  25;  military  reor- 
ganized by,  199-200;  suicide  of,  25 

Thapa,  Mathbar  Singh,  25,  26 

Thapa,  Ranbir  Singh,  25 

Thapa,  Surya  Bahadur:  fall  of,  50,  162; 
as  prime  minister,  49 

Thapa  family,  20;  in  Kot  Massacre,  27 

Tharu  language,  81 

Tharu  people,  74,  77,  81 

Thimphu,  257,  314,  318;  as  municipal 
corporation,  323;  population  of,  273; 
temperatures  in,  270;  as  year-round 
capital,  265 

Thimphu  General  Hospital,  289;  Health 
School,  288 

Thimphu  Valley,  271 

Three  Kingdoms  period,  12-15;  culture 
of,  13;  Gorkha  conquest  of,  18;  rela- 
tions of,  with  China,  14 

Tibet,  7,  14,  107,  256,  266;  China's  in- 
vasion of,  185,  233,  262,  332;  Gorkha 
invasions  of,  20,  199;  influences  of,  on 
Bhutan-Indian  relations,  330;  migra- 
tion from,  59;  Nepalese  expelled  from, 
21;  Nepal's  invasion  of,  185,  236;  refu- 
gees from,  275;  trade  with  Bhutan,  297, 
298;  trade  with  Nepal,  31 ;  tribute  paid 
by  Bhutan  to,  328;  tribute  paid  to 
Nepal,  236;  wars  and  disputes  with 
Nepal,  3,  20 

Tibetan-Mongol  military  forces,  255;  in- 
vasion of  Bhutan  by,  256-57 

Tibetan  Plateau,  57;  rainfall  in,  61 

Tibet-Bhutan  relations,  xxiv,  332 

Tibet-Nepal  relations,  31;  boundary  is- 
sues, 186;  historical,  185 

Tibeto- Nepalese  people,  xix,  74,  79;  and 
caste  system,  80-81;  occupations  of,  79; 
religions  of,  90;  women's  status  among, 
86 

Tihar  (Dipawali)  festival,  62 

Timber  Corporation  of  Nepal,  125 

Time,  178 

Times  of  India,  178 

Tirhut,  9 

Torsa  Chhu,  271 

tourism 

Bhutan:  xxiii,  312-13 

Nepal:  xxiii,  138-39;  earnings  from, 
119,  138,  139;  effect  of  trade  and 


transit  dispute  on,  182;  under 
Second  Five- Year  Plan,  109 

trade 

Bhutan:  297-98;  encouragement  of, 
262 

Nepal:  59,  116-19,  257;  deficit,  116, 
118;  with  India,  116;  in  Licchavi 
Dynasty,  9;  migration  for,  70; 
taxes  on,  113;  with  Tibet,  31 
trade  and  transit  dispute  with  India, 
50-51,  107,  116,  164,  191,  198;  agree- 
ments in,  181;  causes  of,  182,  235;  ef- 
fect of,  on  economy,  xvi,  xx,  51,  116, 
119,   125,   126-27,   133,   139,  182, 
235-36;  resolution  of,  183 
trade  and  transit  issues,  334 
Trade  and  Transit  Treaty  with  India 
(1960),  43,  115,  223;  negotiations  for, 
176 

Trade  Information  Centre,  305 
transportation 

Bhutan:  306-8,  334 
Nepal:  112,  133-37;  under  five-year 
plans,  109,  110,  133;  foreign  aid 
for,  119,  189;  of  freight,  107 
Transport  Corporation  of  Bhutan,  307-8 
Treason  Act,  177 

Treaty  of  Friendship  Between  the  Gov- 
ernment of  India  and  the  Government 
of  Bhutan  (1949),  xxiv,  263,  330,  335 

Treaty  of  Peace  (1774)  between  Britain 
and  Bhutan,  259 

Treaty  of  Peace  and  Friendship  (1960)  be- 
tween China  and  Nepal,  43 

Treaty  of  Peace  and  Friendship  (1950)  be- 
tween India  and  Nepal,  xx,  180,  181 

Treaty  of  Peace  and  Friendship  (1960)  be- 
tween Tibet  and  Nepal,  186 

Treaty  of  Perpetual  Peace  and  Friendship 
(1923)  between  Britain  and  Nepal,  36, 
189,  202 

Treaty  of  Punakha  (1910),  262 

Treaty  of  Sagauli  (1816),  xv,  22,  32,  180, 
189,  200 

Treaty  of  Sinchula  (1865),  260 

Treaty  of  Thapathali  (1956),  186,  236 

Treaty  of  Trade  and  Commerce  (1950)  be- 
tween India  and  Nepal,  xx,  180 

Tribhuvan  International  Airport,  119, 
136,  232 

Tribhu  van-Raj  path  Highway,  135 
Tribhuvan  University,  47,  96-97 
Tri-Chandra  College,  34,  92 


420 


Index 


Tripurasundari  (queen),  19,  25 

Trisuli  River,  65,  132 

Triton  Energy,  133 

Tsangla  language,  276 

Tsa  Yig,  257,  341 

Tsering,  Dawa,  xxvii,  xxviii 

Tshogdu.  See  National  Assembly 

Tuberculosis  Control  Project,  100 


underemployment,  56,  122 

unemployment 
Bhutan:  280 
Nepal:  56,  122 

United  Arab  Emirates,  190 

United  Democratic  Party,  171;  alliances 
of,  with  other  parties,  44 

United  Left  Front  parties,  165,  169,  213 

United  Liberation  Torch  Bearers,  237 

United  Mission  to  Nepal,  188 

United  Nations,  311;  aid  to  Bhutan  by, 
295,  296;  aid  to  Nepal  by,  xxiii,  119; 
Bhutan's  membership  in,  265,  329, 
331;  Koirala's  address  to,  43;  Nepal's 
membership  in,  xx,  xxiv,  179,  191, 
234;  peacekeeping  forces,  xviii,  214, 
223;  volunteer  programs,  296 

United  Nations  Development  Pro- 
gramme, xxvi,  114,  286,  287,  302,  321 

United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific, 
and  Cultural  Organization,  96,  286 

United  Nations  Food  and  Agriculture  Or- 
ganization, 191,  287 

United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees  (UNHCR),  xxiv,  xxv,  xxvi 

United  Nations  Industrial  Development 
Organization,  xxvi 

United  States:  aid  to  Nepal  from,  xx,  114, 
119,  120,  121,  133,  146,  188;  arms  sup- 
plies to  Nepal  from,  215;  Bhutanese 
students  in,  287;  exports  to  Nepal  by, 
116;  imports  from,  to  Nepal,  118;  King 
Birendra's  state  visit  to,  188;  military 
training  of  Nepalese  in,  221;  reaction 
of,  to  prodemocracy  movement,  146, 
188;  relations  with  Bhutan,  329-30; 
technical  assistance  to  Nepal  from,  133; 
tourists  to  Bhutan  from,  313;  trade  with 
Bhutan,  297 

United  States  Agency  for  International 
Development,  121,  188 

United   States-Nepal   relations,  43, 


187-89,  220 
Unit  Trust  of  Bhutan,  295 
Universal  Postal  Union,  191,  311,  334 
University  of  London,  286 
Upper  House,  43 

urban  areas,  8,  273;  education  in,  98; 
farming  in,  83;  health  care  in,  101-2; 
housing  in,  112;  literacy  rates  in,  97; 
population  statistics  for,  67,  68,  273; 
women  in,  86 
urbanization 

Bhutan:  273 
Nepal:  67-68 


Vaisya  caste,  80 
Vedas,  90 
villages 

Bhutan:  323 

Nepal:  83;  projects  in,  84 
Vishnu,  91 

Voice  of  America,  179 
voting 

Bhutan:  318 

Nepal:  procedures  for,  173;  rights,  xv 
Vriji  people,  9 


Wang  Chhu,  271,  304 
Wangchuck,  Dechen  Wangmo  (princess), 
314 

Wangchuck,  Jigme  (king),  314;  centrali- 
zation under,  263 

Wangchuck,  Jigme  Dorji  (king),  314;  as- 
sassination attempt  on,  265;  death  of, 
265;  modernization  under,  263-66; 
power  struggle  under,  264-65 

Wangchuck,  Jigme  Gesar  Namgyal 
(crown  prince),  314 

Wangchuck,  Jigme  Singye  (king),  xxi- 
xxii;  background  of,  265-66;  corona- 
tion of,  266,  314;  lifestyle  of,  314; 
marriage  of,  314;  political  participation 
under,  xxii;  queens  of,  314;  travel  by, 
315,  334 

Wangchuck,  Namgyal  (prince),  264,  214, 
321 

Wangchuck,  Sonam  Chhoden  (princess), 
280,  314,  321 

Wangchuck,  Ugyen  (king):  accomplish- 
ments of,  313-14;  ascendancy  of,  261; 


421 


Nepal  and  Bhutan:  Country  Studies 


as  Druk  Gyalpo,  262;  knighted,  261; 
reforms  under,  262 
Wangchuck  Dynasty,  xxi,  253;  security 
of,  314 

Wangchuck  Lo  Dzong  Military  Training 

School,  337 
West  Bengal,  266 

West  Germany.  See  Federal  Republic  of 
Germany 

Western  popular  culture,  82;  influence  of, 
55 

wheat,  62,  124,  298;  imported  to  Bhutan, 

299 
wildlife,  270 
women 

Bhutan:  xxiii;  in  development,  292; 
education  of,  280;  employment  of, 
280;  in  military,  336;  in  politics, 
318;  role  of,  280,  292 

Nepal:  education  of,  97;  employment 
of,  86;  equal  rights  for,  xix,  153; 
living  conditions  of,  86;  in  mili- 
tary, 218;  in  politics,  173,  174; 
prisons  for,  228;  role  of,  xix,  86- 
87,  218;  status  of,  86-87 
Women's  Democratic  Party,  171 
work  force 

Bhutan:  289,  303,  306,  322 

Nepal:  127 


World  Bank:  aid  to  Bhutan  by,  296,  302; 
aid  to  Nepal  by,  32,  133;  Bhutan's  debt 
to,  297;  Bhutan's  membership  in,  334; 
Nepal's  debt  to,  119,  120;  Nepal's 
membership  in,  191;  reaction  of,  to 
prodemocracy  movement,  146 
World  Fellowship  of  Buddhists,  190 
World  Food  Programme,  xxvi 
World  Health  Organization,  288,  289 
World  Hindu  Meet,  190 
World  War  I:  Gurkha  service  in,  189, 
202;  role  of  Royal  Nepal  Army  in, 
34-36 

World  War  II:  casualties  in,  203;  Gur- 
kha service  in,  189,  203 
World  Wildlife  Fund,  302 

Yakshamalla  (king),  12 
Yala,  8 

Yambu.  See  Koligrama 
Yanchenphug  High  School,  287 
Yangala.  See  Dakshinakoligrama 
Yangki,  264,  328 
yeti,  57 

zone  of  peace,  Nepal  as,  152;  announce- 
ments of,  179,  181,  234;  rejection  of, 
182;  support  for,  50,  187,  188,  189, 
190 


422 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-87 

Greece 

550-98 

Albania 

550-78 

Guatemala 

4.4. 

j  jU-fr 

Algeria 

74 

Guinea 

550-59 

A  n  ctmI  q 

550-82 

vj  uy  ana  clllvl    !  >  ^_  i  1  /C 

oou— / J 

Argentina 

^■Sfl-l  "SI 

J  JU        1  J  1 

Honduras 

550-169 

Australia 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-176 

Austria 

550-21 

India 

550-1 75 

JJV/    X  1  J 

Han  on  n  H  f*^  n 

■S^O-l  54 

Tnnian  (JPPJjri 
iiiviiaii  \_/^Lciii 

J  JU~ 1 / V 

Belgium 

Indonesia 

JJU  uu 

JJu  UO 

i5razil 

R^O-S 1 

J  JU    J  1 

Iraq 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-25 

Israel 

550-61 

Burma 

550-182 

Italy 

J  D\J— JU 

Cambodia 

JJv  Jv 

Japan 

550-34 

1  <JI  Uall 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kcnys. 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

J  JU  tU 

Colombia 

JJU  JO 

Laos 

550-33 

linnimnfiwpaUn  iI^riHHf^n 

V_J  Willi             1  W  \*CLL  111     V  '  CI  I  1  U I  J  V  ( 1 1  J  , 

550-24 

T  pnannri 
1-ji.uaiiuii 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

v-i  y  jji  us 

SSO-I 61 

IVld-UI  lldllld 

550-1 58 

JJv    1 JO 

v>i                     V  dlUa 

JJV     /  J 

iVICAlCU 

jjU-jO 

Dominican  Republic  and 

jjU-/0 

Mongolia 

Haiti 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-167 

Finland 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-46 

Panama 

423 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-53 

Thailand 

SO-  IRS 

JTCiild.ll   vjrUll  OLaLCd 

550-89 

A  UiliMd, 

■^a  AO 
JJU— tz 

Jreru 

t^A  ft  A 
jjU-ou 

Turkey 

t^A  70 

Philippines 

^^A  74. 
JJU-  /  lT 

Uganda 

j  3U- 1 

jroiana 

■^A  Q7 

j ju— y / 

Uruguay 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-71 

Venezuela 

^A    1  £A 
JJU-lOu 

Romania 

^^A  30 
JJU- J A 

Vietnam 

JJU    J  / 

XVW  d-llLld.  0.11L1  JJU1U11L11 

550-1 83 

JJU     1 OJ 

I  ClUClla,    X  11C 

S  SO—  S 1 

JJU  Jl 

Saudi  Arabia 

JJU  3? 

Yugoslavia 

^a  7n 

J ju- /  U 

Senegal 

SSA  £7 
J JU— 0 / 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

JJU  iot 

olllgd.jJUl  C 

550-171 

^illllUaUWC 

^A  Qfi 
J ju— OD 

Somalia 

^  ciA 

j ju— y J 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Soviet  TTninn 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

424 


PIN: 004201*000 


