0*0*  V5t>  *  •  •  Vft  °»>  ,01*0 


On  the  cover: 

School  children 
North  Side  YWCA 
Chicago,  Illinois 


Interim  Report  of  the 
National  Commission  on 
Children 


OpeningDoon 


for  America’s 
Children 


March  31,  1990 


Th  e  National  Commission  on  Children  was  established  by  Public  Law  100-203  “to 
seive  as  a  foru  m  on  behalf  of  the  children  of  the  nation.  ”  It  is  a  bipartisan  body  whose 
36  members  were  appointed  in  equal  numbers  by  the  President,  the  President  Pro  Tem¬ 
pore  of  the  U.S.  Senate,  and  the  Speaker  of  the  U.S.  House  of  Representatives.  The  Com¬ 
mission  is  required  to  submit  an  in  terim  report  by  March  31,  1990  and  a  final  report  by 
March  31,  1991  to  the  President ;  to  the  Committee  on  Finance  and  the  Committee  on 
Labor  and  Human  Resources  of  the  Senate;  and  to  the  Committees  on  Ways  and  Means, 
Education  and  Labor,  and  Energy  and  Commerce  of  the  House  of  Representatives. 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


Commission  Members 


\c\c\o 


Hon.  John  D.  Rockefeller  IV 
U.S.  Senator 
State  of  West  Virginia 
Washington,  D.C. 

Chairman 

T.  Berry  Brazelton,  M.D. 
Professor  of  Pediatrics 
Harvard  Medical  School 
Boston,  Massachusetts 

Allan  C.  Carlson,  Ph.D. 
President 

The  Rockford  Institute 
Rockford,  Illinois 

Hon.  Bill  Clinton 
Governor 
State  of  Arkansas 
Little  Rock,  Arkansas 

Hon.  Dan  Coats 

U. S.  Senator 
State  of  Indiana 
Washington,  D.C. 

Donald  J.  Cohen,  M.D. 

Director 

Child  Study  Center 
School  of  Medicine, 

Yale  University 
New  Haven,  Connecticut 

Nancy  Daly 
Founder 

United  Friends  of  the  Children 
Los  Angeles,  California 

Marian  Wright  Edelman 
President 

Children’s  Defense  Fund 
Washington,  D.C. 

Hon.  Theresa  H.  Esposito 
Representative 
North  Carolina  House  of 
Representatives 
Raleigh,  North  Carolina 

Hon.  Raymond  L.  Flynn 
Mayor 

City  of  Boston 
Boston,  Massachusetts 

Mary  Hatwood  Futrell 
Senior  Fellow 
Center  for  Education 

and  National  Development 
George  Washington  University 
Washington,  D.C. 


Hon.  Martha  W.  Griffiths 
Lieutenant  Governor 
State  of  Michigan 
Lansing,  Michigan 

Adele  Hall 

Member,  Board  of  Directors 
Children’s  Mercy  Hospital 
Shawnee  Mission,  Kansas 

Irving  B.  Harris 
Chairman  of  the  Executive 
Committee 
Pittway  Corporation 
Chicago,  Illinois 

Betty  Jo  Hay 
Former  President 
National  Mental  Health 
Association 
Dallas,  Texas 

Hon.  Bill  Honig 
Superintendent  of  Public 
Instruction 
State  of  California 
Sacramento,  California 

Wade  F.  Horn,  Ph.D. 
Commissioner 
Administration  for  Children, 
Youth  and  Families 
U.S.  Department  of  Health  and 
Human  Services 
Washington,  D.C. 

Mai  Bell  Hurley 
Former  President 
Child  Welfare  League  of 
America 

Chattanooga,  Tennessee 

Hon.  Kay  C.  James 
Assistant  Secretary  for  Public 
Affairs 

U.S.  Department  of  Health  and 
Human  Services 
Washington,  D.C. 

A.  Sidney  Johnson,  III 
Executive  Director 
American  Public  Welfare 
Association 
Washington,  D.C. 

Ruth  Massinga 
Chief  Executive  Officer 
Casey  Family  Program 
Seattle,  Washington 


Gerald  W.  McEntee 
President 

American  Federation  of  State, 
County  and  Municipal 
Employees,  AFL-CIO 
Washington,  D.C. 

Hon.  George  Miller 
U.S.  Congressman 
State  of  California 
Washington,  D.C. 

James  D.  Northway,  M.D. 
President  and  CEO 
Valley  Children’s  Hospital 
Fresno,  California 

A.  Louise  Oliver 
Former  Special  Assistant  and 
Consultant 

U.S.  Department  of  Education 
Washington,  D.C. 

Gerald  (Jerry)  P.  Regier 
Acting  Director 
Bureau  ofjustice  Assistance 
U.S.  Department  ofjustice 
Washington,  D.C. 

Hon.  Nancy  Risque  Rohrbach 
Government  Relations 
Consultant 
Washington,  D.C. 

Sarah  Cardwell  Shuptrine 
President 

Shuptrine  and  Associates 
Columbia,  South  Carolina 

Josev  M.  Velazquez 
Executive  Vice  President 
Hands  in  Action 
Miami,  Florida 

Hon.  Lowell  P.  Weicker,Jr. 
President  and  CEO 
Research!  America 
Alexandria,  Virginia 

David  P.  Weikart,  Ph.D. 
President 

High/Scope  Educational 
Research  Foundation 
Ypsilanti,  Michigan 

Bernice  Weissbourd 
President 
Family  Focus 
Evanston,  Illinois 


Robert  L.  Woodson 
President 

National  Center  for 

Neighborhood  Enterprise 
Washington,  D.C. 

Barry  S.  Zuckerman,  M.D. 
Director 

Division  of  Developmental 
and  Behavioral  Pediatrics 
Boston  City  Hospital 
Boston,  Massachusetts 

David  Zwiebel.J.D. 

General  Counsel  and  Director, 
Office  of  Government  Affairs 
Agudath  Israel  of  America 
New  York,  New  York 


Staff 


Cheryl  D.  Hayes 
Executive  Director 

Carol  A.  Emig 
Deputy  Director 

Renee  Wessels 
Communications  Director 

Joseph  A.  Cislowski 
Policy  Analyst 

Tamara  L.  Horne 
Policy  Analyst 

Deborah  A.  Roderick 
Policy  Analyst 

Marian  Rodriguez 
Policy  Analyst 

Jeannine  M.  Atalay 
Administrative  Officer 

LindaJ.  Wells 
Executive  Assistant 

Mary  Lou  Rinehart 
Administrative  Assistant 


Photography  by  Eric  H.  Futran 


2 


Dear  Friends  and  Colleagues, 

One  of  the  tragic  ironies  of  recent  decades  is  that  in  a  period  of  significant  economic 
growth,  the  most  prosperous  nation  on  earth  seems  to  be  failing  its  children.  The 
evidence  of  this  failure  is  pervasive.  In  1990,  children  are  the  poorest  group  in  U.S. 
society.  More  than  one  in  five  lives  in  a  family  whose  income  is  below  the  poverty  level. 
Every  night  an  estimated  100,000  children  or  more  go  to  sleep  homeless.  Malnutrition 
affects  nearly  a  half  million.  Despite  a  generation  of  medical  advances,  each  day  more 
than  100  American  babies  die  before  their  first  birthday.  Each  year  approximately  one 
million  teenage  girls  become  pregnant;  and  many  have  babies  they  are  unable  to  nurture 
or  support.  Nearly  a  quarter  of  our  students  experience  academic  failure  and  drop  out 
before  completing  high  school.  Countless  others  who  graduate  lack  the  basic  skills 
necessary  to  obtain  an  entry  level  job. 

The  litany  of  facts  and  trends  has  become  all  too  familiar.  It  is  often  recited,  but  too 
rarely  followed  up  by  action.  The  seriousness  of  the  problems  afflicting  manv  of  the 
nation's  children  and  their  families  is  now  largely  beyond  debate.  In  some  cases,  effective 
solutions  alreadv  exist  in  formal  programs  and  informal  arrangements  but  fail  to  reach 
all  those  in  need.  In  other  cases,  new  conditions  challenge  established  approaches;  while 
in  still  others,  there  is  little  consensus  about  what  should  be  done. 


The  National  Commission  on  Children  was  created  by  Congress  and  the  President 
to  “serve  as  a  forum  on  behalf  of  the  children  of  the  nation.”  Its  establishment  reflects 
a  growing  public  concern  and  renewed  political  will  to  place  children  at  the  top  of  the 
national  agenda.  Over  its  two-year  life,  the  Commission  will  travel  the  country  to  hear 
from  parents,  professionals,  and  children  themselves.  Our  mission  is  to  assess  the  status 
of  children  in  the  United  States  and  propose  new  directions  for  policies  and  programs. 
My  hope  is  that  we  will  craft  a  bold  agenda  for  public  and  private  sector  action  in  the  1 990s 
and  build  the  necessary  public  commitment  to  see  it  implemented. 

Members  of  the  Commission  come  from  many  walks  of  life  and  represent  an  array  of 
viewpoints,  professional  affiliations,  and  political  perspectives.  We  have  been  moved  by 
the  courage  and  concern  of  the  parents  and  children  we  have  met,  and  inspired  and 
humbled  by  the  professionals  and  volunteers  who  work  every  day  with  children  and  their 
families.  Yet  we  have  been  troubled  by  much  of  what  we  have  learned  about  the  current 
conditions  and  future  prospects  of  many  American  children. 

This  interim  report  shares  some  of  what  we  have  seen  and  heard  in  our  hearings, 
town  meetings,  site  visits,  and  forums  in  communities  across  the  country.  It  also  reviews 
the  framework  that  guides  our  activities  and  discusses  several  of  the  salient  themes  and 
issues  that  have  emerged.  Because  we  are  only  midway  through  our  inquiry,  it  is 
premature  for  the  Commission  to  offer  specific  recommendations.  Therefore,  this 
report  presents  a  brief  summary  of  our  progress  to  date.  While  members  of  the 
Commission  have  had  a  significant  hand  in  shaping  this  document,  they  have  not  been 
asked  to  vote  on  specific  language. 

In  the  coming  year,  the  Commission  will  complete  its  investigation  and  delibera¬ 
tions.  On  March  31,  1991,  we  will  report  to  Congress  and  the  President.  When  we  began 
nearlv  a  year  ago,  it  was  our  hope  to  produce  realistic  and  far-reaching  proposals  to 
benefit  America's  children.  Today,  we  are  well  on  our  way  to  doing  so. 


Sincerely, 


John  D.  Rockefeller  IV 


Chairman 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


Contents 


Children ,  Families,  and  the  Nation:  Adapting  to  New  Realities  7 

A  Forum  for  the  Nation ’s  Children  1 1 

A  Developmental  Framework  1 3 

Assessing  the  Status  of  America ’s  Children  13 

Field  Hearings  15 

Public  Town  Meetings  15 

Site  Visits  15 

Forums  and  Focus  Groups  16 

National  Opinion  Research  Project  1 7 

Corporate  Advisory  Board  1 7 

Activities  to  Date:  A  Progress  Report  1 9 

Healthy  Mothers  and  Healthy  Babies,  Chicago,  Illinois  19 

Children  and  Families  in  Rural  America  21 

Part  I:  The  Midwest,  Madison,  Indiana 
Part  II:  The  South,  Bennettsville,  South  Carolina 


Enhancing  School  Readiness:  Support  for  Early  Childhood  Development, 


San  Antonio,  Texas  24 

America’s  Children  and  the  Drug  Crisis,  Kansas  City,  Missouri  26 

Making  Ends  Meet:  American  Families  and  the  Economy, 

Charleston,  West  Virginia  28 

Emerging  Themes  and  Issues  31 

The  Critical  Role  of  Parents  and  Other  Caring  Adults  31 

Children  in  Poverty  33 

The  Pervasiveness  of  Drugs  35 

The  Crisis  in  Health  Care  37 

The  Need  for  School  Readiness  39 

Reorienting  Services  for  Children:  A  Focus  on  Coordination  and  Prevention  42 

Opening  Doors  in  the  1990s  45 

Appendix:  Commission  Activities,  September  1989  -  March  1990  47 

Schedule  of  Activities  48 


5 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


Children,  Families,  and  the  Nation: 
Adapting  to  New  Realities 


#  he  experience  of  growing  up  in  the  United  States  today  is  very  different 
JL  than  it  was  just  a  generation  ago.  Sweeping  social  and  economic  changes 
since  the  1960s  have  fundamentally  altered  the  form  of  many  American  families, 
the  way  they  live,  and  the  world  in  which  they  raise  their  children.  Changing 
patterns  of  marriage  and  family  formation,  the  dramatic  entry  of  women  into  the 
paid  labor  force,  and  the  declining  economic  status  of  many  families  with  child¬ 
ren  have  been  widely  reported  and  analyzed. 

Behind  the  statistics  are  real  parents  and  real  children.  At  every  income  level, 
in  all  racial  and  ethnic  groups,  and  in  every  region  of  the  country,  these  changes 
have  challenged  the  routines,  traditions,  and  family  values  of  generations  of 
Americans.  For  the  nation,  they  raise  important  and  often  troubling  questions 
about  the  health  and  well-being  of  this  and  future  generations  of  children  and  the 
capability  and  commitment  of  their  parents  to  care  for  and  nurture  them. 

Today,  children  are  the  poorest  group  in  America.  Nationwide,  one  in  five 
children  is  poor.  In  many  cities  and  rural  communities,  the  proportion  is  even 
greater.  While  the  causes  of  childhood  poverty  are  complex  and  difficult  to 
disentangle,  the  consequences  are  painfully  clear.  From  infant  mortality  and 
unmet  health  needs,  to  school  failure  and  lifetimes  of  limited  opportunity,  the 
personal  and  societal  costs  are  enormous,  and  they  are  rising. 

At  a  time  of  great  national  prosperity,  many  families  have  both  parents  in  the 
workforce  in  order  to  maintain  a  standard  of  living  that  earlier  generations 
^  attained  with  just  one  income.  For  the  record  number  of  families  with  only  one 

parent  —  almost  always  a  mother  —  even  a  modest  middle-class  life  is  frequently 
DAUGHTER  beyond  reach.  As  more  mothers  enter  the  workforce,  more  children  than  ever 

CHICAGO,  Illinois  before  spend  a  significant  portion  of  their  time  in  the  care  of  adults  other  than 

their  parents,  or  they  are  left  alone  without  adult  supervision.  And  more  parents 
worry  that  by  working  to  meet  their  children’s  economic  needs,  they  may  in  some 
way  shortchange  their  children’s  social  and  emotional  needs. 

In  the  nation’s  cities,  drugs  poison  our  playgrounds  and  classrooms.  A  small 
but  growing  number  of  children  enter  the  world  with  their  futures  already 
compromised  by  their  mothers’  use  of  alcohol  and  drugs,  while  others  watch 
helplessly  as  substance  abuse  destroys  the  adults  upon  whom  they  depend.  For 
youngsters  who  live  amid  the  crime  and  violence  spawned  by  drugs  and  poverty, 
childhood  is  a  time  of  fear,  anger,  and  frustration. 


In  the  workplace,  technology  and  global  competition  demand  an  American 
labor  force  with  sophisticated  skills  and  problem-solving  abilities.  In  the  voting 
booth,  subtle  and  complex  issues  call  for  thoughtful  and  knowledgeable  citizens. 
Yet  public  opinion  suggests  that  many  Amiericans  have  little  confidence  in  the 
ability  of  the  educational  system  to  prepare  students  to  fill  the  jobs  of  tomorrow 
and  to  share  in  the  privileges  and  responsibilities  of  citizenship. 

The  realities  of  childhood  and  family  life  in  the  last  decades  of  the  twentieth 
century  raise  serious  questions  about  the  reach  and  effectiveness  of  existing  public 
and  private  sector  policies  and  programs  to  support  children  and  their  families. 
Policymakers,  professionals,  and  parents  alike  express  two  related  concerns.  The 
first  is  that  many  of  our  young  people  are  reaching  adulthood  unhealthy,  illiterate, 
unemployable,  and  without  moral  direction.  Many  bear  babies  they  are  unable  to 
rear  and  support,  without  a  vision  of  a  secure  future,  and  at  risk  of  entering  a 
continuing  cycle  of  poverty  and  dependency.  Second,  and  equally  troubling,  is 
that  some  existing  strategies  to  prevent  and  ameliorate  these  problems  fail  to 
reach  many  of  the  children  and  families  who  need  them  most,  and  others  may  not 
fully  reflect  recent  changes  in  childhood  and  family  life.  Still  others  may  uninten¬ 
tionally  weaken  parents’  autonomy  and  sense  of  responsibility  for  their  children. 


Head  Start  student 
La  Casa  de  Ninos 
Child  Development 
Center 

San  Antonio,  Texas 


8 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


Throughout  the  nation,  there  is  also  growing  recognition  that  if  the  United 
States  is  to  remain  a  competitive  economy  and  a  democratic  nation,  all  sectors 
of  society  must  appreciate  the  importance  of  our  children  —  as  future  citizens, 
parents,  employees,  and  taxpayers.  As  we  enter  the  21st  century,  we  can  ill 
afford  to  waste  our  human  resources.  To  do  so  will  impoverish  our  nation  — 
culturally,  politically,  and  economically.  America’s  economic  interests  and  its 
traditional  values  combine  to  provide  a  powerful  rationale  for  public  and  pri¬ 
vate  sector  action. 

This  confluence  of  interests  and  values  joins  with  agrowing  body  of  knowledge 
from  scientific  research,  program  experience,  and  best  professional  practice.  It 
leads  to  a  broader  vision  and  a  new  commitment  to  improve  the  life  prospects  of 
all  American  children,  and  it  points  to  promising  directions  for  new  initiatives  and 
needed  improvements  to  existing  policies  and  programs.  The  result  is  an  emerg¬ 
ing  consensus  across  the  political  spectrum:  the  time  has  come  to  find  new  ways 
to  ensure  that  the  doors  of  opportunity  are  open  for  all  of  America’s  children. 


Student 

Deputy  Elementary 
School 

Deputy,  Indiana 


9 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


A  Forum  for  the  Nation ’s  Children 


Young  children 
Rockwell  Gardens 

HOUSING  COMPLEX 

Chicago,  Illinois 


The  convergence  of  knowledge,  need,  and  concern  about  the  health  and 
well-being  of  America’s  children  led  Congress  and  the  President  to  estab¬ 
lish  the  National  Commission  on  Children  to  serve  as  “a  forum  on  behalf  of  the 
children  of  the  nation.”  Members  of  the  Commission,  appointed  in  equal  num¬ 
bers  by  the  President  Pro  Tempore  of  the  Senate,  the  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Rep¬ 
resentatives,  and  the  President,  bring  a  spectrum  of  political  and  professional  per¬ 
spectives  and  expertise.  Almost  all  are  parents,  and  some  are  grandparents. 

The  goal  of  the  National  Commission  on  Children  is  to  propose  policy 
directions  to  improve  opportunities  for  all  American  children  to  reach  their 
full  potential  and  to  enhance  the  capacity  of  their  families  to  care  for  and  nur¬ 
ture  them. 

Several  fundamental  assumptions  underlie  this  goal: 

♦  Every  child,  regardless  of  social,  economic,  and  cultural  circumstances, 
should  have  the  opportunity  to  become  a  healthy,  literate,  secure,  ecomomically 
self-sufficient,  and  productive  adult. 

♦  Families  are  and  should  remain  the  central  locus  for  childrearing.  Parents 
have  the  natural  and  primary  responsibility  for  the  care  and  nurturing  of  their 
children.  Social  institutions,  including  schools,  churches,  community  organiza¬ 
tions  —  as  well  as  government  —  should  supplement  and  strengthen  the  role  of 
the  family. 

♦  The  problems  and  conditions  that  threaten  the  health  and  well-being  of 
American  children  and  families  have  evolved  over  time.  Like  other  complex  and 
difficult  issues,  they  will  not  yield  to  easy  answers  or  quick  fixes. 

♦  Solutions  will  take  root  and  produce  results  only  after  sustained  effort. 
They  will  certainly  include  an  array  of  policies,  programs  and  approaches 
sensitive  to  the  strengths  and  values  of  a  diverse  nation  and  to  the  developmental 
needs  of  children  and  families  at  different  stages  in  the  life  span. 

♦  Responsibility  for  improving  the  current  conditions  and  future  prospects 
of  America’s  children  should  be  widely  shared  among  individuals,  families, 
communities,  employers,  the  voluntary  sector,  and  government  at  all  levels. 
Society’s  commitment  to  its  families  and  their  children  must  be  significant  and 
broad-based. 


11 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


Best  friends 
Deputy,  Indiana 


In  fulfilling  its  mandate,  the  National  Commission  on  Children  has  six  basic 
objectives: 

♦  To  review  and  assess  the  status  of  American  children  and  their  families. 

♦  To  heighten  the  nation’s  awareness  and  understanding  of  the  problems 
threatening  many  American  children  and  their  families  and  society’s  common 
stake  in  finding  effective  solutions. 

♦  To  set  ambitious  goals  for  improvement  in  the  health  and  well-being  of 
children  and  their  families  by  the  year  2000. 

♦  To  propose  priorities  for  public  and  private  sector  policies  toward  children 
and  their  families  during  the  1990s. 

♦  To  identify  key  strategic  steps  toward  the  development  and  implementa¬ 
tion  of  effective  policies  and  programs. 

♦  To  build  a  broad  and  strong  base  of  support  in  all  sectors  of  society  for 
action  to  enhance  the  current  conditions  and  future  prospects  of  children 
and  their  families. 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


A  Developmental  Framework 

/n  order  to  look  beyond  the  existing  patchwork  of  policies  and  programs  and 
to  identify  fresh  approaches  to  improve  the  health  and  well-being  of  Ameri¬ 
can  children  and  their  families,  the  Commission  adopted  a  conceptual  framework 
for  its  work  based  on  the  process  of  growth  and  change  that  constitutes  child 
development.  Instead  of  focusing  exclusively  on  existing  legislative  and  adminis¬ 
trative  structures,  the  Commission  chose  to  broaden  its  purview  to  include 
fundamental  issues  concerning  children’s  characteristics  and  experiences,  family 
roles  and  relationships,  community  structures  and  supports,  and  the  interactions 
among  them  that  significantly  influence  child  outcomes. 

Children’s  genetic  endowment  combined  with  their  accumulated  life  expe¬ 
riences  determine  the  persons  they  will  become.  To  grow  into  healthy,  compe¬ 
tent,  and  productive  adult  members  of  society,  children  must  have  their  basic 
health  and  nutritional  needs  met.  They  must  acquire  the  basic  skills  of  modern 
life.  They  must  develop  a  sense  of  moral  direction.  They  need  to  become  socially 
competent.  They  must  possess  a  secure  and  positive  sense  of  themselves  and  their 
place  in  the  world.  They  must  become  literate,  thinking  individuals  who  can  solve 
problems  and  communicate  with  one  another. 

Development  is  the  continuing  process  by  which  children  come  to  under¬ 
stand  the  world,  to  find  their  place  in  it,  and  to  set  their  course  through  it. 
For  youngsters  who  perceive  the  world  as  hostile  and  themselves  as  helpless  to 
take  charge  of  their  environment,  development  is  often  restricted.  Many  of  these 
children  will  fail  to  grow  into  confident,  competent,  and  productive  adults.  If, 
on  the  other  hand,  they  feel  secure  and  their  basic  developmental  needs  are 
met,  most  children  will  gain  the  necessary  skills,  confidence,  direction,  and 
social  responsibility  to  become  active  citizens,  productive  employees,  and  nur¬ 
turing  parents. 

This  process  occurs  first  and  foremost  within  families,  where  parents  are  their 
children’s  most  important  teachers  and  caregivers.  Parents  have  the  primary 
responsibility  to  provide  for  their  children,  to  give  them  a  sense  of  security  and 
direction  that  is  the  firm  foundation  for  future  growth  and  development. 

.Although  the  family  is  the  central  locus  for  child  development,  it  does  not 
function  in  isolation.  Other  individuals,  formal  and  informal  networks  of  support, 
schools,  religious  institutions,  the  workplace,  and  government  all  play  a  role  in  the 
daily  lives  of  parents  and  children.  They  can  strengthen  families’  ability  to  nurture 
and  educate  their  children  —  or  they  can  weaken  it. 

Ideally,  all  children  would  be  born  into  strong  families  with  the  resources  to 
meet  their  basic  social,  emotional,  cognitive,  and  physical  needs.  They  would  live 


13 


Sleeping  baby 
Capital  High 
School  Child 
Care  Center 
Charleston, 
West  Virginia 


in  safe  and  secure  neighborhoods  and  communities  that  support  and  reinforce 
the  ability  of  families  to  rear  children.  Unfortunately,  however,  for  too  many 
children  in  the  United  States  today,  this  is  not  the  case.  Many  families,  especially 
those  living  in  dangerous  and  destructive  environments,  need  help  to  protect  their 
children  against  adverse  outcomes  and  to  ensure  that  they  attain  the  essential 
components  of  healthy  growth  and  development. 

In  some  cases,  informal  networks  of  support  exist  in  extended  families, 
cultural  groups,  and  communities  to  augment  the  natural  strengths  of  families. 
Formal  interventions  —  ranging  from  preventive  programs  to  crisis  intervention 
—  seek  to  supplement  informal  systems  and  strengthen  individual  families.  They 
include  an  array  of  programs  and  clinical  approaches,  supported  and  operated  by 
public  and  private  health,  education,  and  social  welfare  agencies,  both  large  and 
small,  as  well  as  voluntary  organizations. 

Even  the  best  programs  and  services  cannot  inoculate  children  against 
failures.  But  in  many  cases,  they  can  help  children  take  advantage  of  opportuni¬ 
ties  that  will  present  themselves  later  in  school,  in  work,  and  in  personal  rela¬ 
tionships.  Moreover,  they  can  help  families  support  their  children’s  development 
and  overcome  the  conditions  and  circumstances  of  life  that  threaten  health  and 
well-being. 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA'S  CHILDREN 


Assessing  the  Status  of  America’s  Children 

i-J  rom  September  1989  to  September  1990,  the  National  Commission  on 
JL  Children  is  undertaking  a  series  of  activities  to  assemble,  integrate,  and 
review  information  on  the  status  of  America’s  children  and  their  families.  The 
Commission's  activities  will  culminate  in  proposals  for  public  and  private  sector 
action  on  behalf  of  the  nation’s  children,  to  be  presented  to  Congress,  the 
President,  and  the  American  people  by  March  31,  1991. 

The  Commission’s  major  public  activities  include: 

Field  Hearings 

The  Commission  is  convening  seven  public  hearings  on  specific  topics  in 
urban  and  rural  communities  across  the  country.  At  these  hearings,  members  of 
the  Commission  receive  testimony  and  question  expert  witnesses  on  the  status  of 
children  and  their  families,  the  effects  and  effectiveness  of  formal  and  informal 
initiatives  by  the  public  and  private  sectors  to  address  their  needs,  the  require¬ 
ments  for  effective  program  implementation,  and  recommendations  for  policy 
development.  Witnesses  are  invited  from  across  the  country  and  include  an  array 
of  public  and  private  sector  decision  makers,  scholarly  and  professional  experts, 
program  and  service  providers,  and  corporate  and  labor  leaders,  as  well  as  parents 
and  children  themselves. 

Public  Town  Meetings 

The  Commission  is  convening  three  town  meetings  in  selected  communities 
across  the  country  so  that  Commissioners  can  solicit  the  views  of  a  wide  spectrum 
of  citizens  in  an  open  and  relatively  unstructured  public  exchange.  Town  meet¬ 
ings  focus  on  broad  topics  of  public  concern,  such  as  substance  abuse,  or  on 
specific  populations  of  children,  such  as  children  in  rural  communities.  In 
particular,  they  are  effective  mechanisms  for  encouraging  parental  input  into  the 
work  of  the  Commission,  and  they  are  useful  barometers  of  public  awareness  and 
concern  about  a  range  of  issues  affecting  children  and  families. 

Site  Visits 

Field  hearings  and  town  meetings  are  combined  with  site  visits  to  relevant 
programs,  institutions,  and  organizations  providing  supports  and  services  to 
children  and  their  families  in  a  variety  of  settings.  Site  visits  allow  Commissioners 
to  see  firsthand  the  circumstances  in  which  some  children  live  and  are  raised,  to 


15 


Teenager  speaks  out 

AT  STUDENT  FORUM 

Kansas  City, 
Missouri 


observe  service  delivery  to  children  and  their  families,  to  see  model  programs  in 
action,  and  to  have  extended  discussions  with  service  providers  and  with  partici¬ 
pating  parents  and  children.  Site  visits  are  chosen  to  illustrate  and  underscore  the 
major  issues  addressed  in  a  particular  hearing  or  town  meeting. 

Forums  and  Focus  Groups 

The  Commission  is  also  convening  a  series  of  forums  and  focus  groups  in 
conjunction  with  its  hearings  and  town  meetings.  These  focused  discussions  allow 
Commissioners  to  explore  special  issues  of  concern  —  for  example,  the  presence 
of  drugs  in  schools  and  communities,  the  quality'  of  life  in  small  towns  and  rural 
communities,  and  the  special  challenges  of  making  ends  meet  in  a  changing 
economy  —  with  groups  of  adults  including  religious  leaders,  teachers,  and  par¬ 
ents,  as  well  as  with  children  and  teenagers. 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA'S  CHILDREN 


National  Opinion  Research  Project 

To  supplement  the  scholarly  knowledge,  professional  perspectives,  and  per¬ 
sonal  insights  presented  in  the  hearings,  town  meetings,  site  visits,  forums,  and 
focus  groups,  the  Commission  is  conducting  opinion  surveys  to  generate  nation¬ 
ally  representative  data  on  the  attitudes  and  perceptions  of  children,  parents,  and 
the  general  adult  population.  These  surveys  will  explore  how  children  and  adults 
view  the  major  social,  economic,  and  demographic  changes  that  have  affected 
family  life  in  recent  decades,  as  well  as  their  perspectives  on  future  prospects  for 
children.  This,  in  turn,  will  help  the  Commission  frame  the  major  issues  affecting 
children’s  health  and  well-being  in  the  most  immediate  and  compelling  manner 
and  identify  the  leverage  points  around  which  broad  political  consensus  can 
develop.  The  survey  results  will  be  released  publicly  in  late  1990.  In  addition,  the 
Commission  will  place  all  data  in  the  public  domain,  so  that  it  can  contribute  to 
the  ongoing  work  of  child  and  family  scholars  and  researchers. 

Corporate  Advisory  Board 

Confronting  the  challenges  facing  children  and  families  in  the  United  States 
will  require  the  concerted  efforts  of  Americans  from  all  walks  of  life  and  from  all 
sectors  of  society.  The  business  community  has  a  significant  economic  stake  in  the 
quality  of  the  workforce  and  the  productivity  of  American  industry.  Corporate 
leaders  can  play  a  pacesetting  role  in  raising  awareness  of  the  need  to  improve 
the  skills  and  preparedness  of  the  future  labor  force  and  in  bringing  the  worlds 
of  work  and  family  life  closer  together.  Accordingly,  the  National  Commission  on 
Children  —  charged  with  developing  private  as  well  as  public  sector  proposals  to 
advance  the  health  and  well-being  of  children  and  their  families  —  is  establish¬ 
ing  a  Corporate  Advisory  Board  to  be  chaired  by  Mr.  William  Woodside,  Chairman 
of  Sky  Chefs,  Inc.,  and  Vice  Chairman  of  the  Committee  for  Economic  Develop¬ 
ment.  This  board,  composed  of  corporate  leaders  from  an  array  of  industries  and 
firms  nationwide,  will  provide  timely  input  into  the  Commission’s  deliberations. 
It  also  will  be  a  critical  sounding  board  for  private  sector  proposals  and  for 
corporate  support  for  public  sector  proposals. 


17 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


Activities  to  Date:  A  Progress  Report 


Lj  rom  September  1989  through  March  1990,  members  of  the  National  Com- 
-X.  mission  on  Children  traveled  to  six  communities  across  the  country,  where 
they  held  three  hearings,  three  town  meetings,  nine  site  visits,  and  five  forums  and 
focus  groups.  In  every  community,  the  Commission  encountered  widespread 
support  for  its  mission,  evidenced  in  consistently  large  turnouts  for  its  hearings 
and  town  meetings  and  extensive  media  attention  to  the  issues  raised.  In 
particular,  the  Commission’s  town  meetings,  where  citizens  were  encouraged  to 
speak  out,  tapped  deep  and  widespread  public  concern  for  children.  Each  town 
meeting  was  marked  by  large  and  diverse  crowds  of  parents,  children,  teachers, 
and  other  professionals  who  work  with  children,  as  well  as  a  broad  cross-section 
of  community  residents.  Many  at  the  town  meetings  rose  to  share  their  worries, 
fears,  and  aspirations  for  the  children  of  the  nation,  as  well  as  their  suggestions 
for  how  to  strengthen  family  life  and  improve  prospects  for  all  children. 

Descriptions  follow  of  the  Commission’s  activities  in  each  of  the  communi¬ 
ties  it  visited.  Hearing  witnesses,  programs  visited,  and  groups  participating  in 
forums  and  focus  groups  are  listed  in  the  Appendix. 


Healthy  Mothers  and  Healthy  Babies 


Chicago,  Illinois 
September  25,  1989 


Young  patient 
Neonatal  Intensive 
Care  Unit 
Cook  County 
Hospital 
Chicago,  Illinois 


Children  grow  and  learn  from  the  moment  they  are  born.  In  the  first  three 
years  of  life,  they  acquire  the  fundamental  building  blocks  of  physical, 
emotional,  social,  and  intellectual  development.  A  child’s  earliest  experiences 
can  provide  a  solid  foundation  for  later  physical  health,  emotional  well-being, 
loving  human  relationships,  and  productive  achievement. 

Most  babies  in  the  United  States  are  born  healthy  and  grow  into  able  and 
productive  adults.  Some,  however,  are  born  too  soon,  too  small,  and  with  serious 
health  problems  that  place  them  at  heightened  risk  of  dying  before  their  first 
birthday  and  leave  them  vulnerable  to  lifelong  disability. 

Poor  birth  outcomes  pose  high  human  and  financial  costs  for  children,  their 
families,  and  society'.  Nearly  seven  of  every  100  babies  are  born  at  low  birthweight 
(less  than  5.5  pounds) .  Low  birthweight  babies  are  20  times  more  likely  than  those 
of  normal  birthweight  to  die  during  infancy.  They  are  also  more  likely  to  grow  up 
with  long-term  disabilities  and  to  suffer  illness  and  injuries  that  severely  compro¬ 
mise  their  physical  ability  and  intellectual  growth  and  development.  Low  birth¬ 
weight  babies  are  two  to  three  times  as  likely  as  normal  birthweight  infants  to  have 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


handicapping  conditions  such  as  chronic  lung  problems,  cerebral  palsy,  epilepsy, 
blindness,  hearing  impairment,  and  mental  retardation. 

While  several  factors  contribute  to  the  developmental  problems  that  threaten 
many  of  our  youngest  citizens,  the  most  pervasive  is  poverty.  For  those  born  to 
mothers  who  have  used  drugs  and  alcohol  during  their  pregnancies  and  those 
infected  with  the  AIDS  virus,  the  risk  of  irreparable  harm  is  even  greater. 

Over  the  past  decade,  a  growing  body  of  scientific  research  and  program 
experience  has  increased  knowledge  of  how  to  prevent  damage  to  young  children 
and  how  to  give  them  a  good  start  in  life.  Prenatal  care,  adequate  nutrition, 
immunization,  early  education,  family  support,  safe  and  secure  homes  and  neigh¬ 
borhoods,  and  strong  social  networks  are  a  few  of  the  important  ingredients. 
Where  families  and  society  have  made  the  necessary  financial,  political,  and  moral 
commitment  to  healthy  mothers  and  healthy  babies,  there  has  been  dramatic 
progress  in  reducing  infant  mortality  and  the  developmental  casualties  of  early 
life.  Despite  medical  advances,  however,  the  pace  of  improvement  has  slowed,  and 
in  some  cases  reversed  itself.  More  than  30  percent  of  pregnant  mothers  receive 
inadequate  prenatal  care.  Almost  40,000  babies  born  in  the  United  States  each 
year  die  before  their  first  birthday.  And  millions  of  children  fail  to  receive  routine 
immunizations  that  can  protect  them  against  preventable  diseases  such  as  polio, 
measles,  and  mumps. 

The  growing  scourge  of  drugs  poses  a  significant  new  challenge  to  the  goal  of 
giving  all  children  a  healthy  start  in  life.  Drug  treatment  programs  are  scarce  in 
most  communities  and  often  turn  away  expectant  mothers  whose  pregnancies 
pose  special  risks.  Large  urban  hospitals  bear  the  human  and  financial  burdens 
of  caring  for  infants  who  begin  life  already  severely  compromised  by  maternal 
substance  abuse.  Child  welfare  systems  in  cities  across  the  country  are  over¬ 
whelmed  by  the  rapidly  rising  number  of  babies  abandoned  in  hospitals  at  birth 
and  by  abused  and  neglected  children  in  need  of  care  and  protective  services. 
Schools  face  the  difficult  job  of  teaching  youngsters  who  enter  the  classroom  with 
serious  learning  and  behavior  problems  directly  attributable  to  their  parents’  drug 
and  alcohol  use. 

The  National  Commission  on  Children  traveled  to  Chicago,  Illinois  to  exam¬ 
ine  issues  related  to  health  and  development  in  the  prenatal  period  and  the  first 
three  years  of  life.  Commissioners  visited  the  neonatal  intensive  care  unit  at  Cook 
County  Hospital  for  a  firsthand  look  at  the  consequences  of  inadequate  prenatal 
care  and  maternal  substance  abuse.  They  also  traveled  to  some  of  Chicago’s 
poorest  neighborhoods  to  observe  community-based  programs  serving  expectant 
and  new  parents  and  their  children.  At  each  stop,  they  heard  from  parents  and 
staff  about  limited  access  to  prenatal  care  and  the  difficulties  of  raising  children 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA'S  CHILDREN 


amid  the  crime  and  violence  endemic  to  many  inner-city  neighborhoods.  They 
also  saw  the  effects  of  intensive  family  support  and  parent  education  services. 

Following  these  site  visits,  the  Commission  held  its  first  public  hearing,  on 
“Healthy  Mothers  and  Healthy  Babies.”  Among  those  presenting  testimony  were 
public  health  and  hospital  directors  struggling  to  cope  with  rising  infant  mortality, 
low  birthweight,  and  the  growing  number  of  drug-addicted  and  .AIDS-infected 
infants;  national  experts  on  the  design  and  delivery  of  prenatal  services  and  on 
early  childhood  development;  representatives  of  human  service  organizations 
providing  early  and  comprehensive  prenatal  care  and  family  support;  and  parents 
raising  children  in  low-income  housing  projects. 


Children  and  F.amilies  in  Rural  America 


Part  1:  The  Midwest 
Madison,  Indiana 
October  12,  1989 


Part  II:  The  South 
Bennettsville, 
South  Carolina 
February  15,  1990 


Many  of  this  country’s  oldest,  richest,  and  strongest  traditions  have  their 
roots  in  .America’s  small  towns  and  rural  communities,  where  close-knit 
families,  supportive  communities,  and  belief  in  the  rewards  of  hard  work  and  self- 
reliance  remain  strong.  Traditional  values  continue  to  play  a  central  role  in  family 
and  community  life. 

Many  recent  indicators  of  child  health  and  well-being  in  rural  .America, 
however,  are  troubling.  Years  of  improvement  in  maternal  and  child  health  have 
reversed  in  the  last  decade,  reflecting  the  combined  effects  of  poor  economic 
conditions,  the  difficulties  of  attracting  health  professionals  to  isolated  areas,  and 
cutbacks  in  some  federal  health  programs.  Many  rural  school  children  lag  behind 
their  urban  and  suburban  counterparts  on  national  achievement  tests  and  in 
college  completion  rates.  A  significant  proportion  of  rural  youth  fail  to  finish 
high  school.  While  juvenile  delinquency  and  substance  abuse  are  less  prevalent 
in  rural  communities  than  in  metropolitan  areas,  they  are  increasing  at  a  faster 
rate.  And  teen  birth  rates  in  many  rural  areas  continue  to  exceed  rates  in 
metropolitan  areas. 

Despite  the  prevailing  stereotype  of  poverty  as  an  inner-city  phenomenon, 
one  of  every  four  poor  Americans  lives  in  a  rural  area,  and  one  of  every  four  rural 
children  is  poor.  These  children  frequently  escape  public  attention  because  they 
live  in  families  in  which  at  least  one  parent  works,  and  because  rural  families  are 
less  likely  than  urban  families  to  rely  on  public  assistance.  Rural  poverty'  is  not 
limited  to  any  one  racial  or  ethnic  group.  But  it  is  extensive  and  persistent  in 
minority'  communities,  especially  among  southern  blacks,  Native  .Americans,  and 
the  families  of  black  and  Hispanic  migrant  workers  nationwide. 


fl  pin 

n 

wT  s*  ’  \  j 

1  i 
1 

if  i 

Present  economic  trends  in  rural  America  do  not  promise  an  easy  or  secure  future 
for  the  children  and  families  who  live  in  these  areas.  Farming,  the  traditional  mainstay 
of  the  rural  economy,  today  employs  fewer  than  one  in  ten  rural  workers.  The  40 
INDIANA  percent  of  rural  workers  employed  in  manufacturing  also  face  uncertainty  as  plant 

closings  and  downsizings  continue  to  create  problems  in  communities  whose  eco¬ 
nomic  fortunes  are  tied  to  a  few  major  employers. 

At  a  time  when  the  nation’s  future  workforce  needs  to  be  highly  skilled  and 
literate,  many  rural  communities  are  struggling  to  support  and  upgrade  their 
educational  systems.  The  same  isolation  that  discourages  health  professionals  from 
settling  in  rural  communities  often  prevents  teachers  from  pursuing  careers  in  rural 
schools.  An  eroding  tax  base  only  intensifies  the  difficulties  associated  with  delivering 
quality  education.  Already,  a  significant  number  of  young  and  well-educated  rural 
citizens  are  migrating  to  cities  and  suburbs.  If  this  trend  continues,  it  can  only  make 
it  more  difficult  for  rural  communities  to  attract  new,  high-tech  industries. 

In  many  respects,  rural  America  today  is  at  a  crossroads,  and  prospects  for  rural 
children  and  their  families  —  regardless  of  income  —  are  uncertain.  The  economic 
changes  of  recent  decades  may  prove  to  be  the  catalyst  for  dramatic  improvements 
in  health  care,  education,  and  social  services,  or  may  leave  present  and  future  gen- 


22 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


erations  of  rural  children  with  fewer  opportunities  than  earlier  generations  or 
than  their  counterparts  in  metropolitan  America. 

To  explore  these  issues,  the  National  Commission  on  Children  held  two  town 
meetings  on  “Children  and  Families  in  Rural  xAmerica."  The  first,  held  in  Madi¬ 
son,  Indiana,  was  attended  by  more  than  500  parents,  children,  teachers,  and 
other  citizens.  The  second,  held  in  Bennettsville,  South  Carolina,  drew  almost 
1,000  people. 

In  each  of  these  meetings,  Commissioners  heard  a  great  deal  that  was 
heartening,  as  citizens  expressed  pride  in  their  communities  and  reaffirmed  the 
fundamental  value  of  strong,  close  families.  But  many  who  spoke  out  also  ex¬ 
pressed  concern  and  frustration  about  forces  they  believe  threaten  the  security  of 
their  communities  and  the  future  of  their  children  and  families  —  growing  moral 
confusion,  economic  uncertainty,  the  increasing  role  of  government  in  their 
private  lives,  and  the  lack  of  access  to  needed  services.  In  Madison  and  in 
Bennettsville,  many  working  families  had  no  health  insurance.  Access  to  health 
care  was  further  limited  by  the  small  number  of  providers  and  the  distances  that 
many  families  must  travel  to  see  a  doctor  or  get  to  a  hospital.  Teachers  and  students 
alike  expressed  frustration  over  the  limits  of  the  educational  system.  Parents 
worried  about  their  ability  to  make  ends  meet  in  a  fragile  economy.  And  young 
people  expressed  their  intentions  to  seek  economic  opportunities  beyond  their 
hometowns. 

In  Madison,  adults  and  young  people  who  participated  in  the  town  meeting 
expressed  concern  about  the  encroachment  of  urban  problems  such  as  juvenile 
drug  use  and  delinquency.  They  worried  about  the  growing  number  of  children 
left  on  their  own  during  non-school  hours.  And  they  asserted  the  central  role  and 
responsibility  of  parents  in  providing  care  and  direction  for  their  children. 

In  Bennettsville,  Commissioners  also  explored  some  of  the  challenges  facing 
rural  children  and  their  families  in  a  series  of  small  group  discussions.  Black 
ministers  spoke  movingly  of  the  time  pressures  on  two-earner  families  with 
children,  declining  moral  values,  and  the  paucity'  of  recreational  opportunities  for 
young  people.  Health  care  providers  shared  their  perspectives  on  the  failing 
system  of  care  for  pregnant  mothers  and  children.  State  officials  identified  the 
difficulties  of  federal-state  cooperation  as  well  as  the  challenges  and  potential 
rewards  of  interagency  coordination  among  health  and  human  services.  High 
school  honor  students  shared  their  hopes  and  and  plans  for  the  future,  while 
young  men  detained  in  a  maximum  security  prison  told  of  their  own  often 
troubled  childhoods,  their  broken  families,  and  their  limited  hopes  for  the  future. 


23 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


Enhancing  School  Readiness: 
Support  for  Early  Childhood 
Development 


San  Antonio,  Texas 
November  27  -  28,  1989 


#  he  early  childhood  years  (ages  three  to  six)  are  a  crucial  period  of  human 
JL  development.  A  child’s  experiences  during  these  years  significantly  affect 
later  school  success.  Research  indicates  that  children  whose  basic  needs  for  health 
care,  adequate  nutrition,  a  safe  environment,  loving  caregivers,  and  appropriate 
developmental  stimulation  are  met  are  more  likely  to  complete  high  school, 
attend  college,  and  secure  jobs.  In  contrast,  children  who  are  at  risk  during  this 
period,  due  to  poor  health,  an  unsafe  environment,  lack  of  parental  attention  and 
nurturing,  or  inadequate  or  inappropriate  stimulation,  often  experience  serious 
developmental  problems.  They  are  at  higher  risk  of  early  academic  failure,  and 
many  drop  out  before  completing  high  school.  As  a  consequence,  they  often  fare 
poorly  in  the  job  market  and  fail  to  become  economically  self-sufficient. 

Unfortunately,  the  basic  health  and  developmental  needs  of  many  American 
children  are  not  being  adequately  met  at  home  or  in  the  other  settings  where  they 
receive  care.  In  particular,  children  raised  in  poverty,  children  with  disabilities, 
children  whose  first  language  is  not  English,  and  children  from  highly  stressed  or 
disorganized  families  often  do  not  begin  school  as  ready  as  their  more  advantaged 
classmates.  As  a  consequence,  they  are  at  increased  risk  of  school  failure. 

Many  young  children  are  still  cared  for  solely  by  their  parents  —  by  mothers 
or  fathers  who  are  not  in  the  labor  force  and  by  parents  who  juggle  their  work 
schedules  in  order  to  care  for  their  children  themselves.  Yet  the  growing  partici¬ 
pation  of  mothers  in  the  paid  labor  force  over  the  past  two  decades  has  meant  that 
more  and  more  youngsters  are  in  the  care  of  adults  other  than  their  parents,  and 
many  are  in  group  programs  in  out-of-home  settings.  Over  time,  a  diverse  array  of 
early  childhood  programs  has  developed.  These  vary  from  informal  arrangements 
in  the  homes  of  relatives  and  neighbors  to  more  formal  programs  in  schools, 
churches,  and  child  care  centers.  Some  are  primarily  custodial,  while  others  stress 
educational  enrichment.  The  diversity  of  these  programs  reflects  varied  demand 
and  ability  to  pay  for  services  among  families  in  different  social,  economic,  and 
cultural  circumstances.  On  the  one  hand,  this  diversity  gives  parents  a  wide  array 
of  options  from  which  to  choose.  On  the  other  hand,  it  raises  concern  over  the 
extent  to  which  such  an  uncoordinated  system  meets  the  developmental  needs  of 
all  the  young  children  it  serves. 

A  growing  body  of  scientific  research  on  the  developmental  effects  of  early 
intervention  indicates  that  many  youngsters,  especially  those  from  low-income 
families,  benefit  from  early  childhood  programs.  However,  the  benefits  of  a 


24 


Preschoolers 
Capital  High 
School  Child 
Care  Center 
Charleston, 
West  Virginia 


program  depend  primarily  on  its  quality,  and  quality  varies  dramatically  from 
program  to  program  and  provider  to  provider.  Unfortunately,  not  all  families  have 
access  to  the  tvpe  of  care  they  seek  at  a  price  they  are  able  or  willing  to  pay,  and 
not  all  young  children  in  out-of-home  care  are  in  quality’  programs.  In  particular, 
children  who  are  at  greatest  risk  of  educational  failure  —  those  from  economi¬ 
cally  disadvantaged  and  highlv-stressed  families  —  are  the  least  likely  to  be  in  high 
quality  early  childhood  programs.  Many  families,  especially  those  who  are  poor 
and  those  whose  children  have  special  needs,  fall  through  the  cracks.  They 
frequently  lack  access  to  affordable,  developmentally  appropriate  child  care  and 
child  development  services.  And  even  where  these  programs  exist,  some  parents 
lack  the  time,  knowledge,  and  financial  resources  required  to  locate  and  secure 
a  place  for  their  children. 

Once  strictly  a  private  family  matter,  child  care  and  early  childhood  educa¬ 
tion  have  become  topics  of  heated  public  debate.  At  the  national,  state,  and  local 
levels,  policymakers,  professionals,  and  parents  express  strongly  held  views  on 
how  and  to  what  extent  government  and  the  private  sector  should  be  involved  in 
the  development,  design,  and  financing  of  early  childhood  programs  —  and 
which  families  should  have  priority  in  the  distribution  of  scarce  public  resources. 

In  a  San  Aitonio,  Texas  hearing  on  “Enhancing  School  Readiness,”  the 
National  Commission  on  Children  explored  issues  concerning  the  availability, 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA'S  CHILDREN 


America’s  Children 

and  the  Drug  Crisis 

affordability,  and  quality  of  early  childhood  programs,  as  well  as  the  feasible  and 
appropriate  roles  of  government  and  the  private  sector  in  enhancing  the  ability 
of  families,  regardless  of  care  arrangements,  to  provide  for  their  young  children’s 
healthy  development.  Witnesses  included  early  childhood  scholars  and  research¬ 
ers,  individuals  responsible  for  the  design  and  administration  of  state  and  munici¬ 
pal  early  childhood  programs,  corporate  leaders,  and  parents. 

In  San  Antonio,  Commissioners  visited  programs  serving  Hispanic  children 
and  families,  the  nation’s  fastest  growing  minority  population.  They  visited  an 
innovative  public  school  in  one  of  the  poorest  school  districts  in  Texas,  where  they 
observed  a  bilingual  kindergarten  class,  a  preschool  program  for  children  with 
physical  and  mental  disabilities,  and  an  English  class  for  Spanish-speaking  par¬ 
ents.  Commissioners  also  observed  a  full-day  Head  Start  program  providing  com¬ 
prehensive  child  development  and  child  care  services  to  low-income  families. 

Kansas  City,  Missouri 

]  ational  polls  indicate  that  Americans  perceive  the  drug  crisis  as  the  most 

December  11,  1989 

1  \  significant  threat  to  our  nation’s  well-being.  Although  casual  substance 

use  among  middle-class  youth  actually  declined  somewhat  in  the  1980s,  use  and 
abuse  among  low-income  youth  have  escalated.  As  a  consequence,  drugs  and 
alcohol  severely  compromise  the  health  and  safety  of  many  American  children 
and  their  families.  Use  by  pregnant  mothers  impairs  the  health  and  threatens  the 
long-term  development  of  their  children.  Increasing  rates  of  child  abuse  and 
neglect  are  frequently  attributable  to  parents’  substance  use.  Drug-related 
emergency  room  episodes  are  skyrocketing,  and  drug  use  is  responsible  for 
thousands  of  transmissions  of  the  deadly  AIDS  virus.  Moreover,  the  incidence  of 
drug-related  deaths  has  increased  sharply  in  the  past  several  years  as  inner-city 
neighborhoods  across  the  nation  have  been  devastated  by  the  crime  and  violence 
associated  with  a  thriving  drug  trade. 

Programmatic  experience,  while  limited,  includes  prevention  efforts,  treat¬ 
ment  programs,  and  law  enforcement  activities.  A  variety  of  substance  abuse 
education  and  prevention  programs  for  elementary  and  secondary  students  are 
being  tested  and  evaluated  in  schools  and  communities  across  the  country. 
Health  and  social  service  professionals  struggle  to  design,  implement,  and  main¬ 
tain  stable  funding  for  treatment  programs  for  different  populations  of  addicts, 
including  teenagers  and  expectant  mothers,  while  public  officials,  employers, 
and  insurers  search  for  reasonable  financing  mechanisms.  At  the  same  time,  law 
enforcement  officials  battle  to  decrease  the  supply  of  illicit  drugs  at  our  national 
borders  and  on  our  city  streets. 

Teenager  in  a 

DRUG  REHABILITATION 
PROGRAM 

Adolescent  Center 
for  Treatment 
Olathe,  Kansas 


4  £ 

-  w 

i  i 

jihf 

The  National  Commission  on  Children  traveled  to  the  Kansas  City  metropolitan 
area  to  consider  issues  concerning  the  effects  of  the  drug  crisis  on  American 
children  and  their  families.  Commissioners  visited  the  school  district  of  Inde¬ 
pendence,  Missouri,  where  a  comprehensive  program  to  prevent  drug  and 
alcohol  use  and  to  promote  children’s  health  and  well-being  is  underway,  sup¬ 
plemented  by  a  unique  insurance  plan  to  finance  substance  abuse  treatment. 
They  also  met  with  teenagers  in  the  Johnson  County  Adolescent  Center  for 
Treatment,  a  residential  drug  treatment  program  in  Olathe,  Kansas.  In  a  forum 
with  inner-city  high  school  students  from  Kansas  City7,  Missouri,  Commissioners 
heard  firsthand  the  fear,  anger,  and  frustration  of  young  people  whose  schools 
and  neighborhoods  are  in  the  grip  of  an  often  deadly  drug  trade.  They  were 
heartened  by  the  determination  and  commitment  of  teenagers  striving  to  avoid 
the  peer  pressure  to  use  and  sell  illicit  drugs.  At  a  town  meeting  that  evening  on 
“America’s  Children  and  the  Drug  Crisis,”  more  than  500  citizens  from  across  the 
metropolitan  area  turned  out  to  express  their  concern  over  the  threat  that  drugs 
and  alcohol  pose  to  children,  adolescents,  and  families  of  all  backgrounds  and 
incomes.  Many  recovering  addicts  and  alcoholics  and  their  children  told  their 
own  poignant  stories  of  the  consequences  of  parental  substance  abuse. 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA'S  CHILDREN 


Making  Ends  Meet: 


American  Families 

and  the  Economy 

g  Iver  the  past  two  decades,  significant  economic  and  social  trends  have  dra- 

Charleston,  West  Virginia 

V_>^  matically  altered  the  economic  conditions  of  American  families  with  chil- 

March  26,  1990 

dren.  Stagnating  wages  for  some  categories  of  workers  and  the  growing  number 
of  single-parent  families  have  exerted  a  strong  downward  pull  on  median  family 
income.  In  contrast,  the  entry  and  attachment  of  mothers  to  the  paid  labor  force 
have  bolstered  the  economic  status  of  some  families,  especially  those  with  two 
earners.  Family  incomes  have  also  become  less  equally  distributed  in  recent  years. 
In  particular,  for  single-parent  families,  young  families  with  children,  and  two- 
parent  families  with  a  displaced  worker,  poverty  has  become  more  widespread. 

The  dynamics  of  poverty  differ  depending  on  family  composition.  Among  two- 
parent  working  families,  poverty  fluctuates  widely  from  year  to  year  and  is  highly 
dependent  on  wages  and  income.  In  contrast,  poverty  among  single-parent  fami¬ 
lies  is  generally  sustained,  and  it  reflects  the  vulnerability  of  having  only  one 
parent,  usually  a  mother  who  is  a  low-wage  earner,  as  the  sole  source  of  both 
economic  support  and  nurturance. 

The  effects  of  growing  up  poor  are  complex  and  not  well  understood.  Recent 
studies  indicate  that  child  development  reflects  the  intricate  interaction  of  many 
factors  present  in  a  child’s  home,  school,  neighborhood,  and  culture.  While  some 
of  these  influences  support  and  enhance  a  child’s  health  and  well-being,  others 
endanger  them.  The  balance  between  these  protective  and  risk  factors  signifi¬ 
cantly  affects  child  outcomes. 

Children  growing  up  poor  generally  confront  more  risk  factors  and  benefit 
from  fewer  protective  or  supportive  factors  than  their  more  advantaged  peers.  A 
highly-stressed  and  disorganized  family  environment,  limited  access  to  health  care 
and  quality  early  childhood  development  programs,  substandard  housing  and 
often  dangerous  neighborhoods,  poor  schools,  and  limited  job  prospects  can  all 
combine  to  place  a  low-income  child  in  jeopardy  of  a  lifetime  of  dependency  and 
restricted  opportunities. 

A  wide-ranging  public  debate  has  ensued  in  recent  years  over  the  causes  of 
poverty  and  ways  to  overcome  it.  One  result  is  the  Family  Support  Act,  enacted  by 
Congress  in  1988  and  now  being  implemented  at  the  state  level.  The  new  law 
fundamentally  changes  the  Aid  to  Families  with  Dependent  Children  (AFDC) 
program  by  strengthening  work,  education,  or  training  requirements  for  most 
heads-of-households  receiving  public  assistance;  strengthening  child  support 
enforcement;  and  extending  Medicaid  and  child  care  assistance  during  the  tran¬ 
sition  from  welfare  to  work.  Other  policy  options,  including  proposals  to  provide 

28 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


Family 
Shrewsbury, 
West  Virginia 


economic  relief  or  assistance  to  low-income  and  working  poor  families  through 
the  tax  code,  continue  to  be  discussed. 

In  Charleston,  West  Virginia,  the  National  Commission  on  Children  explored 
the  economic  frustrations  and  challenges  facing  American  families  with  children 
in  a  hearing  on  “Making  Ends  Meet:  American  Families  and  the  Economy.” 
National  experts  presented  different  viewpoints  and  perspectives  on  the  causes 
and  consequences  of  childhood  poverty  and  outlined  an  array  of  alternative 
solutions.  Commissioners  traveled  to  communities  outside  Charleston  to  visit 
families  devastated  by  the  decline  of  employment  opportunities  in  manufacturing 
and  mining  and  the  failure  of  new  industries  to  fill  the  employment  void.  In  a 
forum  with  parents  from  Charleston  and  surrounding  communities,  Commis¬ 
sioners  heard  firsthand  about  the  pride  and  determination  —  and  sometimes  the 
disillusionment  —  of  parents  who  are  struggling  to  make  ends  meet  and  to 
provide  their  children  with  a  better  life  than  they  had  themselves. 


29 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA'S  CHILDREN 


Emerging  Themes  and  Issues 


Father  and  son 
Eskdale, 

West  Virginia 


At  this  interim  stage,  it  is  premature  to  offer  even  tentative  recommenda¬ 
tions  for  future  policy  and  program  development.  Over  the  coming  year, 
the  Commission  will  continue  its  investigation  and  deliberations  to  develop  bold 
proposals  for  public  and  private  sector  action  that  the  majority  of  Americans, 
regardless  of  political  affiliation,  can  embrace. 

Nevertheless,  several  common  themes  and  issues  have  emerged  from  the 
Commission’s  hearings,  town  meetings,  forums,  focus  groups,  and  site  visits  to 
date.  They  are  presented  here  with  the  understanding  that  they  will  continue  to 
evolve  and  develop  as  the  study  proceeds. 

The  Critical  Role  of  Parents  and  Other  Caring  Adults 

Families  are  and  will  remain  the  primary  institution  for  childrearing  in  our 
society,  just  as  parents  are  and  will  remain  their  children’s  first  and  most  impor¬ 
tant  teachers,  providers,  and  caregivers.  The  privilege  of  parenthood  carries  with 
it  responsibility  for  the  physical,  social,  and  moral  development  of  future  genera¬ 
tions  of  Americans. 

These  tenets  concerning  the  intrinsic  value  of  family  life  and  the  critical  role 
of  parents  seem  self-evident.  Yet  the  dramatic  social,  demographic,  and  economic 
changes  of  the  past  two  decades  have  fundamentally  altered  the  roles  and 
relationships  between  many  parents  and  their  children,  as  well  as  the  routines  of 
their  daily  lives.  Throughout  society,  there  is  growing  concern  about  the  extent 
to  which  many  parents  are  failing  to  fulfill  their  essential  childrearing  responsi¬ 
bilities.  The  rising  number  of  female-headed  families  means  that  more  and  more 
children  are  growing  up  without  the  consistent  presence  of  a  father  in  their  lives. 
The  increase  in  mothers’  labor  force  participation  means  that  many  parents  and 
children,  even  those  in  two-parent  families,  are  spending  less  time  together  than 
either  would  like  and  perhaps  need.  And  the  rising  number  of  births  to  young 
unmarried  teenagers  who  lack  the  maturity,  economic  means,  and  parenting 
skills  to  care  for  themselves  and  their  offspring  means  that  a  growing  population 
of  children  is  falling  victim  to  a  recurring  cycle  of  poverty  and  hopelessness. 

While  there  are  many  expressions  of  sympathy  and  compassion  for  mothers 
struggling  to  raise  children  alone  —  and  admiration  for  those  who  carry  the 
double  burden  of  sole  breadwinner  and  caregiver  —  few  would  assert  that  it  is 
easier  or  preferable  for  families  to  rear  children  without  the  involvement  and 
support  of  both  parents.  Research  on  the  dynamics  of  income  and  poverty 
indicates  that  the  presence  of  two  parents  offers  children  substantial  (though  not 


Extended  family 
Bennettsville, 
South  Carolina 


absolute)  protection  from  sustained  poverty.  At  the  same  time,  research  on  child 
development  emphasizes  the  important  and  positive  effects  on  children  of  close 
and  lasting  relationships  with  their  fathers  as  well  as  their  mothers. 

Many  children  are  fortunate  to  have  the  love  and  support  of  their  parents 
supplemented  by  warm  and  supportive  relationships  with  other  caring  adults, 
including  extended  family  members,  teachers,  religious  leaders,  professional 
service  providers,  and  community  volunteers.  In  communities  large  and  small, 
caring  adults  frequently  make  the  critical  difference  whether  children  fall  be¬ 
tween  the  cracks  and  fail  or  whether  they  thrive  and  succeed.  They  make  young 
people  feel  safe  and  special,  provide  guidance  and  strong  role  models,  and  offer 
encouragement  and  emotional  support.  Although  these  individuals  can  never 
supplant  the  essential  role  of  parents,  they  can  and  do  supplement  and  reinforce 
the  care  and  nurturing  provided  by  mothers  and  fathers.  Unfortunately,  however, 


32 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA'S  CHILDREN 


caring  adults  are  not  always  available  for  those  children  who  most  need  time  and 
attention.  The  decline  of  volunteerism,  government  policies  that  discourage 
informal  responses  to  individual  and  community  needs,  and  the  lack  of  resources 
to  train  and  compensate  qualified  professionals  are  all  cited  as  possible  causes. 
Regardless  of  the  cause,  however,  the  result  is  that  for  many  adults,  children  have 
declined  as  a  priority.  Yet  there  is  growing  recognition  that  as  a  societv  we  must 
find  creative  ways  to  restore  the  abilitv  and  willingness  of  parents  and  other  caring 
adults  to  provide  time  and  attention  as  well  as  financial  resources  that  are  essential 
to  the  health  and  well-being  of  America's  children. 

Children  in  Poverty 

On  average,  U.S.  children  are  economically  better  off  in  1990  than  they  were 
in  the  1960s,  primarily  because  of  rising  family  incomes  through  1973  and  the 
smaller  number  of  children  in  most  American  families.  Nevertheless,  the  eco¬ 
nomic  profile  of  the  average  U.S.  child  does  not  capture  the  growing  disparity 
among  families  with  children.  Levels  of  income  and  assets  among  minority 
children,  though  greater  than  in  the  1960s,  remain  far  below  those  of  white 
children,  especially  for  those  in  single-parent  families.  Overall,  economic  inequal¬ 
ity  among  children  and  their  families  has  increased  substantially  over  the  past 
generation. 

Census  data  indicate  that  after  steady  and  dramatic  decreases  in  the  1960s, 
childhood  poverty  began  to  increase  in  the  1970s,  peaking  at  22  percent  in  1983 
and  remaining  stubbornly  above  20  percent  to  this  day.  The  national  rate, 
however,  masks  even  more  intense  poverty  in  inner-city  neighborhoods  and  some 
rural  communities.  .Almost  one  in  three  urban  children  and  one  in  four  rural 
children  live  in  families  whose  incomes  are  below  the  poverty  level.  .Although 
poverty  is  not  limited  to  any  single  group  in  societv,  minority  children  are 
substantially  more  likely  to  grow  up  poor  than  are  white  children.  Forty-five 
percent  of  black  children  and  39  percent  of  Hispanic  children  were  poor  in  1987, 
compared  to  12  percent  of  white  children. 

Increasingly,  family  structure  is  the  chief  determinant  of  whether  a  child  will 
grow  up  in  poverty.  The  children  of  single  parents  are  five  times  as  likely  to  be  poor 
as  children  born  to  married  couples.  Today,  more  than  half  of  all  children  living 
in  single,  female-headed  households  are  poor.  .Although  children  in  two-parent 
families  also  experience  poverty,  marriage  and  the  earnings  of  a  male  head-of- 
household  are  often  a  buffer  against  sustained  economic  disadvantage. 

Parental  employment,  however,  does  not  always  guarantee  an  escape  from 
poverty.  .Among  poor,  two-parent  families,  44  percent  have  a  full-year,  full-time 
worker.  .Another  25  percent  have  one  or  two  adults  who  work  at  least  part-time 


Young  boy 
Chicago,  Illinois 


or  part  of  the  year.  Almost  40  percent  of  poor  single  mothers  work  at  least  part- 
time  or  part-year.  In  many  respects,  these  working  poor  families  face  the  harshest 
dilemma  of  all.  Their  incomes  preclnde  or  seriously  diminish  welfare  payments, 
food  stamps,  and  other  means-tested  forms  of  public  assistance.  To  the  extent  that 
a  family’s  Medicaid  participation  is  pegged  to  eligibility  to  receive  Aid  to  Families 
with  Dependent  Children,  working  poor  families  often  have  no  health  coverage, 
since  many  low-paying  jobs  do  not  include  insurance  benefits.  For  single  mothers 
and  two-earner  families  with  low  incomes,  child  care  expenses  can  consume  more 
than  a  third  of  their  annual  incomes. 

Traveling  across  the  country,  Commissioners  met  many  children  whose 
personal  resilience  and  support  from  parents  and  other  caring  adults  will  shield 
them  from  the  worst  consequences  of  poverty.  Nonetheless,  poor  children  in 
America  are  in  double  jeopardy.  They  have  the  most  health  problems  and  the 
least  access  to  care.  They  are  growing  up  in  families  that  experience  the  most 
stress,  yet  receive  the  least  social  support.  They  are  at  the  highest  risk  of  educa¬ 
tional  failure,  and  often  they  attend  the  worst  schools.  They  are  in  the  greatest 


34 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


danger  of  following  paths  that  jeopardize  their  futures,  yet  they  enjoy  the  fewest 
legitimate  job  opportunities. 

In  addition  to  tremendous  personal  costs,  childhood  poverty  imposes 
enormous  long-term  costs  on  the  nation,  threatening  both  our  economic  vitality 
and  our  democratic  traditions.  Industry  leaders  and  small  business  owners  alike 
express  growing  concern  about  the  limited  skills  and  potential  of  many  new 
workers.  The  realization  that  a  significant  proportion  of  citizens  will  have  neither 
the  stake  in  society  nor  the  education  necessary  to  address  the  difficult  issues  that 
will  confront  the  nation  in  years  to  come  threatens  the  soul  of  a  self-governing 
people.  Moreover,  the  widening  gap  between  rich  and  poor —  and  the  increasing 
number  of  children  at  risk  of  repeating  their  parents'  poverty  —  should  enhance 
our  resolve  to  make  equal  opportunity  and  the  rewards  of  hard  work  a  reality  for 
all  Americans.  Abraham  Lincoln’s  admonition  that  a  house  divided  cannot  stand 
takes  on  a  new  but  equally  compelling  meaning  when  viewed  through  the  prism 
of  a  generation  of  children  who  have  known  sustained  poverty. 


The  Pervasiveness  of  Drugs 

Across  the  nation,  the  sale  and  use  of  illegal  drugs  have  burst  upon  our 
national  consciousness  —  both  as  a  threat  to  children’s  health  and  well-being  and 
as  a  source  of  increasing  crime,  violence,  and  family  dissolution.  Commissioners 
visited  neighborhoods  and  schools  under  a  reign  of  terror  imposed  by  powerful 
street  gangs  who  control  the  drug  trade  and  employ  teenagers  and  even  younger 
children.  They  confronted  high  school  students  who  were  angry  that  the  respon¬ 
sible  adults  in  their  lives,  including  police,  teachers,  and  parents,  were  unable  or 
unwilling  to  protect  them  from  danger  and  violence.  They  heard  from  young 
people  who  long  for  strong  adult  role  models  to  help  them  resist  the  intense  peer 
pressure  to  become  a  part  of  the  drug  culture  and  who  beg  for  viable  economic 
alternatives  to  the  lure  of  easy  drug  money.  And  they  were  moved  by  the  quiet 
courage  of  adolescents  struggling  to  overcome  alcohol  and  drug  addictions. 

The  devastating  effects  of  drugs,  especially  crack  cocaine,  on  the  health  and 
safety  of  American  children  and  their  families  are  readily  apparent.  Health  crises 
such  as  elevated  drug-related  emergency  room  episodes,  the  high  number  of 
transmissions  of  the  .AIDS  virus  associated  with  drug  use,  and  the  growing  number 
of  pregnant  women  abusing  drugs  have  placed  enormous  strains  on  the  nation's 
public  health  system.  Violent  crime  and  a  thriving  and  ruthless  drug  economy  tax 
the  resources  of  the  law  enforcement  and  criminal  justice  systems.  Alarming 
increases  in  child  abuse  and  neglect  resulting  from  parental  substance  abuse 


35 


Teenagers 
Chicago,  Illinois 


threaten  to  overwhelm  the  already  strapped  child  welfare  systems  of  most  states. 
And  everywhere,  treatment  programs  compete  with  prevention  efforts  for  scarce 
financial  resources. 

The  nation’s  anti-drug  strategies  are,  to  a  large  extent,  still  in  a  formative  stage. 
Programmatic  efforts  vary  widely  from  prevention  and  treatment  to  prosecution 
and  interdiction,  and  many  have  yet  to  be  rigorously  evaluated.  Across  the 
country,  policy  discussions  are  characterized  by  vigorous  debate  over  where  and 
how  to  marshall  public  and  private  resources  to  achieve  the  greatest  positive  effect. 
Nevertheless,  public  officials,  professionals,  and  parents  alike  agree  on  the 
urgency  of  the  problems  created  by  the  escalating  drug  crisis  and  the  need  to  find 
responsive  solutions. 


36 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA'S  CHILDREN 


The  Crisis  in  Health  Care 

Throughout  the  nation,  the  health  concerns  of  children  and  parents  are 
painfully  evident.  In  many  rural  communities  and  inner-city  neighborhoods, 
health  care  providers  are  scarce,  and  their  time,  talents,  and  patience  are 
stretched  to  the  breaking  point.  At  town  meetings,  forums,  and  site  visits,  Com¬ 
missioners  met  working  parents  who  had  no  health  insurance  and  children  who 
have  not  received  even  the  most  basic  preventive  health  care.  City  officials  worried 
aloud  over  the  desperate  shortage  of  drug  treatment  programs  —  for  anyone,  but 
especially  for  pregnant  women. 


Preschooler 
Coronado-Escobar 
Elementary  School 
San  Antonio,  Texas 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


The  consequences  of  limited  access  told  the  most  poignant  story  of  all.  Infant 
mortality  rates  are  worse  in  many  U.S.  cities  —  where  babies  die  at  rates  exceeding 
30  deaths  per  1 ,000  live  births  —  than  in  some  developing  nations.  While  Medicaid 
is  an  important  means  of  health  care  financing,  only  about  half  of  income-eligible 
children  are  covered.  Less  than  half  of  the  children  eligible  for  preventive  health 
care  through  Medicaid’s  Early  and  Periodic  Screening,  Diagnosis  and  Treatment 
program  actually  receive  services.  The  neonatal  intensive  care  units  of  city 
hospitals  are  populated  with  a  growing  number  of  low  birthweight  babies,  many 
born  to  mothers  who  received  little  or  no  prenatal  care,  and  many  who  exhibit  the 
tremors  characteristic  of  drug  exposure.  Counseling  and  mental  health  services 
are  often  not  available  to  children  and  youth  until  long  after  their  problem 
behavior  results  in  a  crisis  for  themselves,  their  families,  and  their  communities. 

In  some  cases,  limited  access  goes  hand-in-hand  with  poverty,  especially  for 
working  poor  families  who  do  not  receive  employer-provided  insurance,  who  are 
not  eligible  for  Medicaid  coverage,  and  who  cannot  afford  private  insurance 
premiums.  In  many  states  and  cities,  the  combination  of  high  malpractice 
premiums,  a  high-risk  caseload,  and  below-market  Medicaid  rates  discourages 
physicians  from  accepting  publicly  insured  patients.  In  many  rural  communities, 
geographic  isolation  and  the  lack  of  transportation  create  additional  barriers. 

Beyond  geographic  and  financial  barriers,  however,  are  barriers  imposed  by 
the  way  health  services  are  organized  and  by  patients’  poor  understanding  of  the 
importance  of  basic  preventive  health  care.  Parents  and  professionals  highlight 
the  need  to  deliver  health  services  —  particularly  maternal  and  child  health  care 
and  health  education  —  in  a  context  that  recognizes  other,  often  competing, 
needs  of  low-income,  isolated,  and  highly  stressed  families.  For  parents  living  in 
substandard  conditions,  for  example,  the  search  for  adequate  housing  or  finding 
a  way  to  put  the  next  meal  on  the  table  may  take  precedence  over  a  routine 
prenatal  visit.  This  is  particularly  likely  when  an  expectant  mother  perceives  no 
problems  with  her  pregnancy  and  keeping  an  appointment  entails  a  several  hour 
wait  at  a  clinic  that  is  open  only  during  traditional  working  hours. 

Clearly,  the  health  care  crisis  in  this  country  extends  well  beyond  the  needs 
of  children,  affecting  other  segments  of  our  population  as  well.  But  limited 
access  —  and  its  often  dire  consequences  —  is  particularly  troubling  with  respect 
to  children  and  expectant  mothers,  since  these  are  the  populations  for  whom 
preventive  care  has  been  shown  to  be  most  effective  and  most  cost-effective. 


Student 

Deputy  Elementary 
School 

Deputy,  Indiana 


The  Need  for  School  Readiness 

The  results  of  a  decade  of  attention  to  education  reform  are  evident  in  many 
schools  across  the  country'.  From  before-  and  after-school  care  and  bilingual  kin¬ 
dergarten,  to  parent  education  programs  and  Russian  classes  by  satellite,  creative 
and  experimental  approaches  to  expand  children’s  educational  opportunities  are 
burgeoning  in  large  and  small  school  systems,  public  and  private,  nationwide. 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


Renewed  emphasis  on  basic  skills  training  and  stricter  requirements  for  matricu¬ 
lation  and  graduation  represent  efforts  to  ensure  that  all  students  acquire  essential 
literacy  and  problem-solving  skills. 

Yet  many  fundamental  lessons  from  years  of  research  and  programmatic  ex¬ 
perience  have  not  been  fully  incorporated  into  educational  policy  and  practice. 
Significant  in  this  regard  is  the  continued  absence  of  strong  links  between 
elementary  schools  and  early  childhood  programs.  Research  indicates  the  impor¬ 
tance  of  preschool  learning  and  socialization  for  school  readiness  and  later  school 
success.  Nevertheless,  only  a  fraction  of  the  children  who  would  benefit  most  from 
high  quality  early  childhood  programs  have  access  to  Head  Start  and  other  com¬ 
munity-based  initiatives.  Among  the  children  with  least  access  are  those  from  low- 
income  and  highly-stressed  families,  those  with  disabilities,  and  those  for  whom 
English  is  not  their  first  language. 

In  order  to  learn,  children  must  be  healthy.  They  must  be  fed  and  rested  and 
secure.  Yet  the  population  of  young  students  who  are  entering  the  nation’s  schools 
ill-prepared  for  the  demands  of  formal  education  and  at  heightened  risk  of 
academic  failure  is  growing  rapidly  because  so  many  fail  to  get  a  healthy  and 
secure  start  in  life.  Individual  teachers  often  express  concern  about  the  complex 
lives  and  multiple  needs  of  many  of  their  students,  as  well  as  frustration  over  their 
limited  ability  to  lend  support.  Equally  disturbing  is  the  failure  of  many  school 


School  children 
Charleston, 
West  Virginia 


40 


Head  Start  student 
La  Casa  de  Ninos 
Child  Development 
Center 

San  Antonio,  Texas 


systems  and  education  reform  efforts  to  acknowledge  or  adapt  to  the  circum¬ 
stances  and  special  needs  of  this  new,  and  frequently  troubled,  generation  of 
young  people.  At  a  time  when  the  conditions  of  many  children’s  lives  call  for 
increased  flexibility,  many  school  systems  are  becoming  more  rigid  and  less 
accommodating.  There  is  little  evidence  that  the  educational  system  in  most 
states  and  communities  feels  any  kinship  or  common  purpose  with  the  health  and 
social  service  systems,  the  community  organizations,  or  the  informal  networks  of 
support  that  also  serve  needy  and  troubled  children  and  their  families. 


41 


Pre-kindergarten 
class,  Charles  C. 
Ball  School 
San  Antonio,  Texas 


Reorienting  Services  for  Children: 

A  Focus  on  Coordination  and  Prevention 

The  present  system  of  supports  for  children  and  families  is  an  amalgam  of 
public  and  private  services  and  programs  delivered  by  a  diverse  group  of  profes¬ 
sionals,  paraprofessionals,  and  volunteers.  It  operates  in  a  variety  of  settings  and 
is  financed  by  federal,  state,  local,  or  private  funds,  or  by  a  combination  of  these 
sources.  In  many  respects,  this  system  reflects  the  diversity  of  American  society 
and  a  traditional  desire  to  limit  state  involvement  in  family  life.  In  some  instances, 
it  has  produced  a  rich,  diverse,  and  extensive  network  of  assistance  to  children  and 
families. 

Nevertheless,  a  high  degree  of  fragmentation  discourages  attention  to  the 
multiple  and  interrelated  needs  of  many  children  and  families,  particularly  those 
in  low-income  communities.  Health  care,  mental  health  services,  nutrition  assis¬ 
tance,  education,  compensatory  preschool,  and  other  forms  of  support  fre¬ 
quently  operate  in  different  locations  and  under  different  auspices.  The  design 


42 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA'S  CHILDREN 


and  delivery  of  these  services  often  reflect  different  (and  sometimes  conflicting) 
professional  orientations,  and  the  agencies  that  administer  them  may  esponse  dif¬ 
ferent  missions.  Yet  in  many  cases  they  serve  the  same  children. 

Time  and  again,  the  absence  of  coordination  has  led  to  costlv  duplication  and 
serious  omissions.  Parents  attempting  to  locate  services  frequently  confront  cum¬ 
bersome  and  conflicting  eligibility  criteria  and  intake  procedures,  often  they  have 
to  travel  to  different  service  delivery  locations,  and  sometimes  they  receive  contra¬ 
dictory  information  and  direction.  This  labyrinth  is  at  best  discouraging  and  at 
worst  denies  help  to  parents  and  children  in  need.  Yet  coordination  is  easy  to  talk 
about  but  difficult  to  achieve.  It  raises  complex  financial,  legal,  and  professional 

issues  that  will  not  be  readilv  resolved. 

/ 

In  some  cases  programs  serving  children  fail  to  reach  out  to  and  involve  their 
families.  Even  though  most  children  who  receive  services  live  in  families,  service 
providers  often  fail  to  recognize  the  significant  role  that  parents  and  other  family 
members  can  play  in  the  short-  and  long-term  effectiveness  of  prevention  and 
treatment  efforts. 

In  addition,  existing  children’s  services  tend  to  emphasize  the  treatment  of 
problems  rather  than  their  prevention.  With  notable  exceptions,  such  as  mater¬ 
nal  and  child  health  programs  and  Head  Start,  many  services  for  children  and 
families  are  problem-driven,  with  eligibility'  triggered  by  a  damaging  incident, 
such  as  child  abuse,  or  an  identified  condition,  such  as  a  physical  or  mental 
disability.  Although  prevention  programs  providing  family  support,  parent  edu¬ 
cation,  and  positive  alternatives  to  drug  use  or  teenage  pregnancy  exist,  they  are 
more  often  models  of  what  ought  to  be  than  examples  of  what  is  common. 

The  tradeoffs  between  prevention  and  treatment  remain  controversial.  The 
reallocation  of  limited  health  and  social  service  dollars  is  difficult  in  the  face  of 
individual  children  and  families  experiencing  severe  problems  for  which  existing 
medical  technology  and  clinical  approaches  offer  predictable  remedies.  Broad- 
based  prevention  initiatives  often  do  not  yield  immediate  benefits  even  though 
they  frequently  hold  the  possibility  of  long-term  savings  in  both  human  and 
financial  terms.  The  old  adage,  “Pay  now  or  pay  later,”  reflects  the  difficult  and 
often  value-laden  assessment  of  current  and  future  costs  and  benefits  to  children, 
their  families,  and  society  as  a  whole. 


43 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA'S  CHILDREN 


Opening  Doors  in  the  1990s 


Student 
Sycamore  Hills 
Elementary  School 
Independence, 
Missouri 


The  1990s  present  this  nation  with  a  rare  combination  of  challenges  and  op¬ 
portunities.  The  social  disorganization,  poverty,  crime,  and  hopelessness 
that  grip  many  urban  neighborhoods  —  and  the  new  stranglehold  of  drugs  — 
threaten  to  relegate  whole  groups  of  children  to  permanent  second-class  status. 
Health  care  financing  and  delivery  are  high  on  the  agenda  of  national,  state,  and 
local  officials,  as  families,  employers,  and  health  providers  all  struggle  to  improve 
a  system  that  frequently  fails  to  provide  even  the  rudiments  of  basic  care  to  many 
families  with  children.  Corporate  leaders  warn  with  mounting  urgency  that  our 
future  prosperity  and  our  status  as  a  world  economic  power  are  threatened  bv  the 
declining  skills  and  abilities  of  many  graduates  of  American  high  schools  —  and 
by  the  virtual  unemployability  of  those  who  fail  to  graduate.  From  many  corners, 
there  is  growing  recognition  of  the  need  for  parents  and  other  caring  adults  to 
devote  time  and  attention  as  well  as  financial  resources  essential  to  children’s 
healthy  growth  and  development. 

But  there  are  also  encouraging  signs  of  public  support  for  improving  the 
future  prospects  of  the  nation’s  children.  In  virtually  every  state  in  the  union, 
school  reform  efforts,  early  childhood  initiatives,  and  experimental  health 
and  social  service  programs  are  underway.  As  states  continue  to  implement  the 
Family  Support  Act,  thev  face  choices  that  hold  considerable  promise  for  many 
poor  children  and  parents.  The  shame  of  childhood  poverty,  the  menace  of 
drugs,  and  the  crises  in  health  care  and  education  are  increasingly  uniting 
.Americans  of  different  political  persuasions  in  a  concerted  effort  to  develop  far- 
reaching  solutions. 

Members  of  the  Commission  have  identified  several  emerging  themes  and 
issues  in  their  review  of  the  status  of  American  children.  Some,  especially  the 
critical  importance  of  parents  and  caring  adults  in  children's  lives,  offer  consid¬ 
erable  hope.  Others,  including  childhood  poverty,  limited  access  to  health  care, 
and  drug  use,  are  complex  and  present  difficult  choices  to  policymakers  and  the 
public.  Still  others,  especially  those  related  to  school  readiness  and  to  improving 
the  delivery  of  services  to  children  and  families,  are  being  addressed  by  policies 
and  programs  in  states  and  localities  across  the  country. 

Less  than  a  year  into  its  inquiry,  this  Commission  is  reluctant  to  offer  prema¬ 
ture  proposals.  But  the  children  and  parents  who  shared  their  hopes,  fears,  and 
concerns  are  a  constant  reminder  of  how  much  is  at  stake.  .As  a  democracy,  an 
economy,  and  a  compassionate  society  committed  to  liberty  and  justice,  we  suffer 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


from  the  wasted  talents  and  potential  of  even  a  single  child.  The  doors  of 
opportunity  must  be  open  to  all  children  in  this  country. 

In  one  year,  the  National  Commission  on  Children  will  announce  its  proposal 
for  action  on  behalf  of  the  nation’s  children.  It  will  be  bold,  and  it  will  require  the 
attention  of  every  American.  Moreover,  it  will  almost  certainly  entail  difficult 
choices  about  national  priorities  in  an  era  of  limited  new  public  resources.  But  the 
tradeoffs  are  painfully  clear  to  those  who  care  to  look.  We  can  recognize  the  need 
to  support  our  children  and  their  families,  or  we  can  pay  the  higher  moral  and 
financial  costs  of  continued  decline  and  increasing  polarization. 

As  required  by  law,  the  Commission  will  report  to  Congress  and  the  President. 
But  it  also  will  present  a  challenge  to  the  nation  —  and  a  promise  to  our  children. 


Young  boy 
Shrewsbury, 
West  Virginia 


46 


l^ii  3 

/: 

— 

,r y  $ 

. 

fr;  ■ 

i v : 

t  Jk 

OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


Appendix:  Commission  Activities,  September  1989 


March  1990 


HEALTHY  MOTHERS  AND 
HEALTH Y  BABIES 


Chicago,  Illinois 
September  25,  1989 

Site  Visits 

Neonatal  Intensive  Care  Unit, 
Cook  Count)  Hospital 
Family  Focus  Lawndale 
Marillac  House,  Rockwell 
Gardens  Project 
Winfield /Moody  Health  Center, 
Cabrini-Green 
Erie  Family  Health  Center, 

West  Town 

Hearing  Witnesses 
Sarah  Brown,  Visiting  Scholar, 
National  Forum  on  the 
Future  of  Children  and 
Families,  Insutute  of 
Medicine  and  the  National 
Research  Council, 
Washington,  D.C. 

Judy  Langford  Carter,  Executive 
Director,  The  Ounce  of 
Prevention  Fund,  Chicago, 
Illinois 

Maureen  Hallagan,  M.S.W., 
Director  of  Project  Hope, 
Marillac  House,  Chicago, 
Illinois 

Margaret  Heagarty,  M.D., 
Director  of  Pediatrics, 
Columbia  University  Harlem 
Hospital  Center,  New  York, 
New  York 

Patricia  Johnson,  Casefinder, 
Westside  Future, 

Chicago,  Illinois 
Richard  Krieg,  Ph.D.,  Acting 
Commissioner  of  Health, 
Chicago,  Illinois 
Vivian  Louis-Bumett,  Casefinder, 
Westside  Future,  Chicago, 
Illinois 

Theresa  Palmer,  Parent  and 
Marillac  House  Participant, 
Chicago,  Illinois 
Rosita  S.  Pildes,  M.D.,  Chairman. 
Division  of  Neonatology, 

Cook  Count)  Hospital, 
Chicago,  Illinois 


Jack  P.  Shonkoff,  M.D.,  Chief  of  the 
Division  of  Developmental 
and  Behavioral  Pediatrics, 
University  of  Massachusetts 
Medical  School, Worcester, 
Massachusetts 

Reed  V.  Tuckson,  M.D.,  Commissioner 
of  Public  Health,  Washington,  D.C. 


CHILDREN  AND  FAMILIES 
IN  RURAL  AMERICA. 

Part  I:  The  Midwest 


Madison,  Indiana 
October  12,  1989 

Town  Meeting 

Madison  Consolidated  High  School 


CHILDREN  AND  FAMILIES 
IN  RURAL  AMERICA 
Part  II:  The  South 


Bennettsville,  South  Carolina 
February  15,  1990 

Forums  and  Focus  Groups 
Focus  group  with  incarcerated 
youth,  Evans  Correctional 
Institution 

Roundtable  with  the  Interdenomi¬ 
national  Ministerial  Alliance, 
Shiloh  Baptist  Church 
Student  forum,  Marlboro  Countv 
High  School 

Roundtable  discussion  with  rural 
health  care  providers,  Marlboro 
Countv  High  School 

Town  Meeting 
Marlboro  County  High  School 


ENHANCING  SCHOOL 
READINESS:  SUPPORT  FOR 
EARLY  CHILDHOOD 
DEVELOPMENT 


San  Antonio,  Texas 
November  27-28,  1989 


Hearing  Witnesses 
Barbara  Bowman,  Director  of 
Graduate  Studies,  Erikson 
Institute,  Chicago,  Illinois 
Valerie  Bryant,  Parent.  San  .Antonio, 
Texas 

Peggy  Cortez,  Parent  and  Partici¬ 
pant  in  the  Avance  Program, 

San  .Antonio,  Texas 
Fernando  Guerra,  M.D.,  Director 
of  Health.  San  .Antonio  Metro¬ 
politan  Health  District, 

San  .Antonio,  Texas 
Sharon  L.  Kagan,  Ed.D.,  .Associate 
Director,  Bush  Center  in  Child 
Development  and  Social  Policv, 

Yale  University,  New  Haven, 
Connecticut 

Ann  Sanford,  Director,  Chapel  Hill 
Training/Outreach  Center; 
Co-Chair,  North  Carolina  Inter¬ 
agency  Coordinating  Council  for 
P.L.  99-457,  Chapel  Hill,  North 
Carolina 

William  Woodside,  Chairman. 

Skv  Chefs,  Inc.;  Vice  Chairman. 
Committee  for  Economic 
Development;  Former  Chairman 
and  CEO,  Primerica  Corporation, 
New  York,  New  York 
Aletha  Wright,  Administrator.  Office  of 
Child  Care  Development,  New 
Jersev  State  Department  of  Human 
Services,  Camden,  New  Jersey 


AMERICA'S  CHILDREN  AND 
THE  DRUG  CRISIS 


Kansas  City,  Missouri 

December  11,  1989 

Site  Visits 

Sycamore  Hills  Elementary  School, 
Independence.  Missouri 

Johnson  County  Adolescent  Center 
for  Treatment,  Olathe,  Kansas 

Forums  and  Focus  Groups 

Student  forum  with  high  school  students 
from  the  Kansas  City,  Missouri  School 
District,  Genesis  School  and  De  La  Salle 
Education  Center,  John  Thorn  berry 
Unit  of  the  Boys  and  Girls  Clubs  of 
Greater  Kansas  Citv 


MAKING  ENDS  MEET: 
AMERICAN  FAMILIES  AND 
THE  ECONOMY 


Charleston,  West  ATrginia 
March  26,  1990 

Site  Visit 

Home  visits.  Charleston  and  rural 
West  A’irginia 

Forums,  Focus  Groups  .and 
Discussions 
Meeting  with  state  officials, 
Governor’s  Mansion 
Parent  forum,  AAVGA  of 
Charleston 

FIearing  Witnesses 
Samuel  Bonasso,  Chairman. 
Governor’s  Task  Force  on 
Children,  Youth,  and  Families, 
Charleston.  West  A’irginia 
Honorable  Gaston  Caperton, 
Governor  of  West  A’irginia, 
Charleston,  West  A’irginia 
David  T.  Ellwood,  Ph.D., 

Professor  of  Public  Policy, 

John  F.  Kennedy  School 
of  Government,  Harv  ard 
University,  Cambridge, 
Massachusetts 
Lawrence  M.  Mead,  Ph.D., 

.Assistant  Professor  of  Politics, 
New  York  University,  New 
York,  New  York 
Isabel  V.  Sawhill,  Ph.D..  Senior 
Fellow,  The  Urban  Institute, 
Washington,  D.C. 

Sue  H.  Sergi,  Executive  Director, 
Community  Council  of 
Kanawha  A'allev,  Charleston, 
West  Airginia 
Timothy  M.  Smeeding,  Ph.D., 
Professor  of  Public  Policv 
and  Economics,  A’anderbilt 
University,  Nashville,  Tennessee 
Terry  Williams,  Ph.D., 

Aisiting  Scholar,  Russell  Sage 
Foundation,  New  York, 

New  A’ork 


Site  Visits 

Coronado-Escobar  Elementary  School 
Im  Casa  De  Ninos  Child  Development 
Center 


Town  Meeting 

Pierson  Hall,  University  of  Missouri- 
Kansas  Citv 


OPENING  DOORS  FOR  AMERICA’S  CHILDREN 


Schedule  of  Events 


September  25,  1989 

Field  Hearing 

Healthy  Mothers  and  Healthy  Babies 

Chicago,  Illinois 

October  12,  1989 

Town  Meeting 

Children  and  Families  in  Rural  America 

Part  I:  The  Midwest 

Madison,  Indiana 

November  27  -  28,  1989 

Field  Hearing 

Enhancing  School  Readiness:  Support  for  Early  Childhood  Development 

San  Antonio,  Texas 

December  11,  1989 

Town  Meeting 

America’s  Children  and  the  Drug  Crisis 

Kansas  City,  Missouri 

February  15,  1990 

Town  Meeting 

Children  and  Families  in  Rural  America 

Part  II:  The  South 

Bennettsville,  South  Carolina 

March  26,  1990 

Field  Hearing 

Making  Ends  Meet:  American  Families  and  the  Economy 

Charleston,  West  Virginia 

May  20  -  21,  1990 

Field  Hearing 

Children  in  Between:  The  Middle  Childhood  Period 

Location  to  be  announced 

May  31,  1990 

Field  Hearing 

Children  Outside  Their  Families 

Los  Angeles,  California 

July  2,  1990 

Field  Hearing 

How  Children  Develop  Values 

Washington,  D.C. 

August  9-10,  1990 

(tentative  date) 

Field  Hearing 

High  Risk  Youth 

Location  to  be  announced 

September,  1990 

(tentative  date) 

Field  Hearing 

Building  a  Productive  Labor  Force:  The  Transition  from  Education  to  Work 

Location  to  be  announced 

6  ij  94 

48 


National  Commission  on  Children 
1111  Eighteenth  Street,  N.W. 

Suite  810 

Washington,  D.C.  20036 


