TD  427 
.P4  095 
1998 

Copy  1 


%  >0“°0  v^  *<  *.A‘'>n  *>°  5  •  *  ,*%  ‘■D“°’  V<v-  *  ».V"’  *  ^  ‘  **  »♦  % 

1»,  fJF®  ”  ^  :  fwl*  >f  ?Ji§|: 


*  •<*->  CJ-j 

**!■**  <5 

■  '\^YMt\/?MV%^y®V\/?M  '  V  ?WiV  ; 

*  *  fcif  *  .\^ ^  5§i#  »  Aj^^Sv  o *^V  * 

^co»«.X^  *  *  ‘  Yt*  -*!X°  •  Y^—.X*"  *  •  Yv  ,,*.<;V”  • iV o^o»«»X^  • 

V*  ‘M:V° r***1 


.V1  «T: 


°  •ISBffi?*0  <&\  o  W§W ;  *va  j.  t« 

»^Xo°  ’  ‘S^:^V  *  •  ‘^v:  .^>0-  •  ><v.‘“"‘-,^"'(^!'  •  ‘\^to»4v  **’ 

Hi:  3?  •'»  V  m-  V  iHtfiV  :*fli-:  W*fcV 


*o,  v/'n  *  o 


>°«v  - 

V*  N^-  *-  O  \  ^ 

»OM°°  * 

^  ^.4&E2k?*  ^ 

'vv  *  m^m  %.  v^v 

\wm:  ^  1 


»#a|*  w  :A\X^  W  .*4te 


•  0^ 


/•6s 


^ov 

>$>■/, 


r/*o 


^v\  W/AlW-'A 

;-r*/V'  *  ‘  o°v  p*\'°  *  ‘>V-.V  *  ’  '>t^\'°  •  *' 

^  =\^§m'  ".trn&J*  <fr,A 


eSj'f'r 


_ W 

>Sv<77*^?^ 

.  .A  *  *  Vy.  G  *  jfaTZth  ’P  O  4 


/•6s 


^v\  •M“/\lm:  #v\  tig®f  °  iwf  •  * 

1®:  «bv  ^  :J|1|;  w :4^2r.  W V*  •4§tot: 

.  r)y  ./5M)y  Ej©  «  j  r>  n  U^vi  ni  >  *  /SKiJ  EFSS  ..  a  X  _  lLPotx.  *  X  k  «  ^?^Ci  w&k  * 


* - 


/*cv 


-OV4 


ip  *z ) 


^jx#  * 


%  •WA  wA  'WA'WA  •»;/%» 
”  ° */V  ”'oP'l" *„\'°  * ‘Vs  c° n  ° «/V*  *  *  *  W • 1  ■ ■  * «fv °  • 1-1  Vs  o»» « *  \4<  *  •  *'0*® .  »,  \%°  *  »v 


United  States 
Environmental  Protection 
Agency 


Office  of  Research  and 
Development 
Washington  DC  20460 


EPA/600/R-98/048 
December  1998 


■S-EPA  Oxygenates  in  Water: 

Critical  Information  and 
Research  Needs 


EPA/600/R-98/048 
December  1998 


Oxygenates  in  Water: 
Critical  Information 
and  Research  Needs 


Office  of  Research  and  Development 
U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
Washington,  DC  20460 


Printed  on  Recycled  Paper 


Disclaimer 


This  document  has  been  reviewed  in  accordance  with  U.S.  Environmental  Protection 
Agency  policy  and  approved  for  publication.  Mention  of  trade  names  or  commercial  products 
does  not  constitute  endorsement  or  recommendation  for  use. 


Pv  Ois 


Table  of  Contents 


Page 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  Task  Group  .  v 

External  Reviewers  .  ix 

Preface  .  xi 

1.  INTRODUCTION .  1 

2.  SOURCE  CHARACTERIZATION .  5 

2.1  Background  .  5 

2.2  Needs .  8 

3.  TRANSPORT  .  9 

3.1  Background  .  9 

3.2  Needs .  10 

4.  TRANSFORMATION .  11 

4.1  Background  .  11 

4.2  Needs .  12 

5.  OCCURRENCE .  13 

5.1  Background  .  13 

5.2  Needs .  18 

6.  EXPOSURE .  19 

6.1  Background  .  19 

6.2  Needs .  22 

7.  AQUATIC  TOXICITY  .  23 

7.1  Background  .  23 

7.2  Needs .  23 

8.  HEALTH  EFFECTS  .  24 

8.1  Background  .  24 

8.2  Needs .  25 

9.  RELEASE  PREVENTION .  26 

9.1  Background  .  26 

9.2  Needs .  29 


in 


Table  of  Contents 

(cont’d) 

Page 

10.  CONTAMINANT  REMOVAL  .  29 

10.1  Background .  29 

10.2  Needs  .  33 

10.2.1  Remediation  Needs .  34 

10.2.2  Drinking-Water  Treatment  Needs .  35 

11.  CONCLUSIONS .  37 

REFERENCES .  39 

APPENDIX  1 :  Chemical  Properties  of  Selected  Oxygenates .  49 

APPENDIX  2:  Current  Projects  Related  to  Oxygenates  in  Water .  51 


IV 


U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  Task  Group 


Principal  Authors 

J.  Michael  Davis  (Chair) 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Center  for  Environmental 
Assessment 

Research  Triangle  Park,  NC  27711 
John  Brophy 

Office  of  Air  and  Radiation 
Office  of  Mobile  Sources 
Washington,  DC  20001 

Robert  Hitzig 

Office  of  Solid  Waste  and  Emergency 
Response 

Office  of  Underground  Storage  Tanks 
Washington,  DC  20460 

Fran  Kremer 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Risk  Management  Research 
Laboratory 

Cincinnati,  OH  45268 

Michael  Osinski 
Office  of  Water 

Office  of  Groundwater  and  Drinking  Water 
Washington,  DC  20460 

James  D.  Prah 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Health  and  Environmental 
Effects  Research  Laboratory 
Research  Triangle  Park,  NC  27711 

Contributors 

Dorothy  Canter 

Office  of  Solid  Waste  and  Emergency 
Response 

Office  of  the  Assistant  Administrator 
Washington,  DC  20460 


Stephen  Schmelling 
Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Risk  Management  Research 
Laboratory 

Ada,  OK  74821-1198 
Thomas  F.  Speth 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Risk  Management  Research 
Laboratory 

Cincinnati,  OH  45268 
Robert  Swank 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Exposure  Research  Laboratory 
Athens,  GA  30605-2720 

Anthony  N.  Tafuri 
Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Risk  Management  Research 
Laboratory 
Edison,  NJ  08837 

Candida  West 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Risk  Management  Research 
Laboratory 

Ada,  OK  74821-1198 


Stanley  Durkee 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
Office  of  Science  Policy 
Washington,  DC  20460 


v 


U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  Task  Group 

(cont’d) 


Contributors  (cont’d) 

Jackson  Ellington 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Exposure  Research  Laboratory 
Athens,  GA  30605-2720 

Charles  Freed 
Office  of  Air  and  Radiation 
Office  of  Mobile  Sources 
Washington,  DC  20001 

Frank  Gostomski 
Office  of  Water 

Office  of  Science  and  Technology 
Washington,  DC  20460 

Judith  A.  Graham 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Exposure  Research  Laboratory 
Research  Triangle  Park,  NC  2771 1 

Matthew  Hagemann 
Region  9 

San  Francisco,  CA  94105 

John  Helvig 
Region  7 

Kansas  City,  KS  66101 

Roland  Hemmet 
Region  2 

New  York,  NY  10007-1866 

Robert  W.  Hillger 
Region  1 

Boston,  MA  02203 
Kenneth  T.  Knapp 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Exposure  Research  Laboratory 
Research  Triangle  Park,  NC  27711 


Amal  Mahfouz 
Office  of  Water 

Office  of  Science  and  Technology 
Washington,  DC  20460 

Michael  Moltzen 
Region  2 

New  York,  NY  10007-1866 

Richard  Muza 
Region  8 

Denver,  CO  80202 
Charles  Ris 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Center  for  Environmental 
Assessment 

Washington,  DC  20460 

Bill  Robberson 
Region  9 

San  Francisco,  CA  94105 
Gary  Timm 

Office  of  Prevention,  Pesticides,  and 
Toxic  Substances 
Washington,  DC  20460 

Jim  Weaver 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Exposure  Research  Laboratory 
Athens,  GA  30605-2720 

Lester  Wybomy  II 
Office  of  Air  and  Radiation 
Office  of  Mobile  Sources 
Ann  Arbor,  MI  48105-2498 


vi 


U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  Task  Group 

(cont’d) 


Members 
Charles  Auer 

Office  of  Prevention,  Pesticides,  and 
Toxic  Substances 
Washington,  DC  20460 

Ben  Blaney 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Risk  Management  Research 
Laboratory 

Cincinnati,  OH  45268 
Dave  Brown 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Exposure  Research  Laboratory 
Athens,  GA  30605-2720 

Rebecca  L.  Calderon 
Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Health  and  Environmental  Effects 
Research  Laboratory 
Research  Triangle  Park,  NC  27711 

Tudor  Davies 
Office  of  Water 

Office  of  Science  and  Technology 
Washington,  DC  20460 

Joe  A.  Elder 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Health  and  Environmental  Effects 
Research  Laboratory 
Research  Triangle  Park,  NC  27711 

William  H.  Farland 
Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Center  for  Environmental 
Assessment 

Washington,  DC  20460 


Rene  Fuentes 
Region  10 
Seattle,  WA  98101 

Lester  D.  Grant 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Center  for  Environmental 
Assessment 

Research  Triangle  Park,  NC  27711 
Fred  Hauchman 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Health  and  Environmental  Effects 
Research  Laboratory 
Research  Triangle  Park,  NC  2771 1 

Steven  F.  Hedtke 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Health  and  Environmental  Effects 
Research  Laboratory 
Duluth,  MN 

John  Heffelfinger 

Office  of  Solid  Waste  and  Emergency 
Response 

Office  of  Underground  Storage  Tanks 
Washington,  DC  20460 

Ronald  Landy 
Region  3 

Philadelphia,  PA  19107 
Maureen  Lewison 

Office  of  Solid  Waste  and  Emergency 
Response 

Office  of  Underground  Storage  Tanks 
Washington,  DC  20460 


Vll 


U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  Task  Group 

(cont’d) 


Members  (cont’d) 

Dennis  McChesney 
Region  2 

New  York,  NY  10007-1866 

John  Mooney 
Region  5 

Chicago,  IL  60604-3507 
Margo  Oge 

Office  of  Air  and  Radiation 
Office  of  Mobile  Sources 
Washington,  DC  20460 

Charles  Sands 

Office  of  Solid  Waste  and  Emergency 
Response 

Washington,  DC  20460 

Paul  Scoggins 
Region  6 

Dallas,  TX  75202-2733 


Winona  Victery 
Region  9 

San  Francisco,  CA  94105 

Michael  Watson 
Region  10 
Seattle,  WA  98101 

Jeanette  Wiltse 
Office  of  Water 

Office  of  Science  and  Technology 
Washington,  DC  20460 

Lynn  Wood 

Office  of  Research  and  Development 
National  Risk  Management  Research 
Laboratory 

Ada,  OK  74821-1198 

Donn  Zuroski 
Region  9 

San  Francisco,  CA  94105 


vm 


External  Reviewers* 


David  Ashley 

National  Center  for  Environmental  Health 
U.S.  Centers  for  Disease  Control  and 
Prevention 

Atlanta,  GA  30341-3724 

Bruce  Bauman 

American  Petroleum  Institute 

Washington,  DC  20005-4070 

Steven  Book 

California  Department  of  Health  Services, 
Drinking  Water 
Sacramento,  CA  94234-7320 

Robert  Borden 

North  Carolina  State  University 
Raleigh,  NC  27695 

Susan  Borghoff 

Chemical  Industry  Institute  of  Toxicology 
Research  Triangle  Park,  NC  27709-2137 

Herb  Buxton 

Toxic  Substances  Hydrology  Program 
U.S.  Geological  Survey 
West  Trenton,  NJ  08628 

Maria  Costantini 
Health  Effects  Institute 
Cambridge,  MA  02139-3180 

James  S.  Crowley 

Santa  Clara  Valley  Water  District 

San  Jose,  CA  95118-3686 

Joan  Denton 

California  Air  Resources  Board 
Sacramento,  CA  95814 

Gary  Ginsberg 

Connecticut  Department  of  Public  Health 
Hartford,  CT  06134-0308 


Bernard  Goldstein  (Workshop  Chair) 
Department  of  Environmental  Community 
Medicine 

Environmental  and  Occupational  Health 
Sciences  Institute 
Piscataway,  NJ  0885-1179 

Anne  Happel 

Environmental  Restoration  Division 
Lawrence  Livermore  National  Laboratory 
Livermore,  C A  94551 

Carol  Henry 

American  Petroleum  Institute 
Washington,  DC  20005-4070 

Michael  Kavanaugh 
Malcolm  Pimie,  Inc 
Oakland,  C A  94612 

John  Kneiss 

Oxygenated  Fuels  Association 
Arlington,  VA  22209 

Jerold  Last 

UC  Toxic  Substances  Research  and 
Teaching  Program 
University  of  Califomia-Davis 
Davis,  C A  95616-8723 

Ronald  Melnick 

National  Institute  of  Environmental  Health 
Sciences 

Research  Triangle  Park,  NC  27709 

James  Pankow 
Oregon  Graduate  Institute 
Portland,  OR  97291-1000 

Hari  Rao 

Edison,  NJ  08820 


ix 


External  Reviewers 

(cont’d) 


Thomas  Skower 
Underwriters  Laboratories,  Inc. 
Northbrook,  IL  60062 

Arthur  Stewart 

Oak  Ridge  National  Laboratory 
Oak  Ridge,  TN  37831-6036 

John  H.  Sullivan 
Government  Affairs  Office 
American  Water  Works  Association 
Washington,  DC  20005 

Robert  Tardiff 
Sapphire  Group,  Inc. 

Bethesda,  MD  20814 


Barbara  Walton  /  Rosina  M.  Bierbaum 
Office  of  Science  and  Technology 
Policy  -  Environment  Division 
Executive  Office  of  the  President 
Washington,  DC  20502 

Clifford  Weisel 

Exposure  Measurement  and  Assessment 
Division 

Environmental  and  Occupational  Health 
Sciences  Institute 
Piscataway,  NJ  08855-1179 

John  Zogorski 
U.S.  Geological  Survey 
Water  Resources  Division 
Rapid  City,  SD  57702 


*These  individuals  provided  technical  review  comments  by  invited  participation  in  a  review  workshop 
held  on  October  7,  1997  and/or  by  written  submissions. 


x 


Preface 


The  purpose  of  this  document  is  to  identify  key  issues  related  to  assessing  and  managing  the 
potential  health  and  environmental  risks  of  oxygenate  contamination  of  water.  Oxygenates  are 
chemicals  added  to  fuels  (“oxy  fuels”)  to  increase  the  oxygen  content  and  thereby  reduce 
emissions  from  use  of  the  fuel.  This  document  builds  on  and  extends  an  earlier  report,  Oxyfuels 
Information  Needs  (U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  1996),  which  included  water  issues 
but  tended  to  focus  more  on  inhalation  health  risk  issues.  The  present  document  focuses  on  those 
gaps  and  limitations  in  current  information  that  constitute  the  most  critical  and  immediate  needs  to 
be  addressed  in  support  of  risk  assessment  and  risk  management  efforts  related  to  oxygenates  in 
water.  This  document  is  primarily  intended  to  serve  as  a  starting  point  and  general  guide  to 
planning  future  research.  It  is  not  a  comprehensive  review  of  issues  pertaining  to  oxygenates  in 
water,  nor  does  it  describe  in  detail  specific  studies  or  projects  that  are  needed. 

Efforts  to  address  many  of  the  needs  identified  in  this  document  have  already  begun  or  are 
under  consideration  by  various  organizations.  A  current  listing  of  such  projects  may  be  found  in 
Appendix  2. 


xi 


1.  INTRODUCTION 


Contamination  of  ground  and  surface  waters  by  motor  vehicle  fuels  and  fuel  additives  is  not 
a  new  problem,  given  the  history  and  pervasive  use  of  fuels  in  the  20th  century.  Well  over  a 
million  underground  fuel  storage  tanks  exist  in  the  United  States,  and  leaks  from  these  tanks  have 
been  the  focus  of  major  programs  to  prevent  or  clean  up  such  releases.  Transport  of  fuels  via 
pipelines  and  in  bulk  containers  also  presents  the  potential  for  accidental  releases  and  consequent 
environmental  contamination.  Experience  suggests  that  contamination  from  these  and  other 
sources  of  fuel  releases  can  affect  water  quality  and  the  biota  that  depend  upon  the  water, 
including  human  populations. 

Against  this  background  of  experience  with  fuel-related  contamination  of  ground  and 
surface  waters,  recent  events  have  focused  attention  on  what  appear  to  be  somewhat  different 
characteristics  associated  with  fuels  containing  chemicals  known  as  oxygenates.  Oxygenates  are 
added  to  fuel  to  increase  its  oxygen  content  and  thereby  reduce  certain  emissions  from  use  of  the 
fuel.  Of  the  several  ethers  and  alcohols  that  may  serve  as  oxygenates,  methyl  tertiary  butyl  ether 
(MTBE)  is  the  most  frequently  used.  Monitoring  of  groundwater  quality  by  the  U.S.  Geological 
Survey  (USGS)  indicates  that  MTBE  has  become  detectable  in  shallow  groundwater  samples  in 
certain  urban  areas  in  recent  years,  with  concentrations  ranging  from  below  the  reporting  level  of 
0.2  pg/L1  to  over  20,000  pg/L  (Squillace  et  al.,  1996).  Reports  of  point-source  MTBE 
contamination  of  drinking  water  sources  at  well  over  100  pg/L,  including  aquifers  serving  as  the 
primary  source  of  drinking  water  for  the  city  of  Santa  Monica,  CA  (California  Department  of 
Health  Services,  1998),  raise  several  important  questions  about  potential  environmental  and  public 
health  impacts  of  oxygenated  fuels. 

A  key  question  is  whether  oxygenates  in  water  pose  a  significant  threat  to  human  health  or 
the  environment.  To  assess  the  risks  of  MTBE  or  any  other  oxygenate,  the  potential  for  exposure 
to,  and  effects  of,  the  contaminant(s)  must  be  characterized.  However,  only  limited  information 
exists  for  characterizing  the  possible  risks  of  oxygenates  in  water.  For  example,  the  extent  of 
population  exposures  to  MTBE  in  drinking  water  is  unknown.  Even  in  cases  where  MTBE  is 
clearly  present  in  public  or  private  water  supplies,  limited  guidance  exists  for  determining  levels 


1 1  pg/L  =  1  part  per  billion  (ppb). 


1 


that  would  be  acceptable  or  unacceptable  from  the  standpoint  of  public  health  or  consumer 
acceptability.  The  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA)  Office  of  Water  has  released  a 
Drinking  Water  Advisory  for  MTBE  (U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  1997).  As  the  full 
title  of  the  document  indicates,  it  provides  “Consumer  Acceptability  Advice  and  Health  Effects 
Analysis  on  [MTBE].”  The  Advisory  “recommends  that  keeping  levels  of  contamination  in  the 
range  of  20  to  40  fig/L  or  below  to  protect  consumer  acceptance  of  the  water  resource  also 
would  provide  a  large  margin  of  exposure  (safety)  from  toxic  effects.”  However,  the  document 
discusses  “many  uncertainties  and  limitations  associated  with  the  toxicity  data  base  for  this 
chemical”  and  notes  the  consequent  difficulty  in  estimating  a  health  protection  level  for  MTBE  in 
drinking  water.  The  uncertainties  in  assessing  the  health  risks  of  MTBE  are  reflected  somewhat 
in  the  various  guidance  values  (e.g.,  advisories,  action  levels,  standards)  that  have  been  issued  by 
individual  states,  ranging  at  one  time  from  35  pg/L  in  California  to  230  pg/L  in  Illinois 
(Interagency  Oxygenated  Fuels  Assessment  Steering  Committee,  1997).  As  efforts  to  assess 
health  risks  and  derive  guidance  values  continue  at  the  local,  state,  and  federal  levels,  the  need  for 
an  adequate  scientific  foundation  for  these  efforts  intensifies.  Without  more  definitive  scientific 
infonnation,  uncertainties  will  continue  to  dominate  risk  assessments  of  oxygenates. 

If  it  is  concluded  that  a  risk  or  problem  exists,  other  questions  face  risk  managers  in 
formulating  actions  to  address  oxygenate  contamination  of  water.  For  example,  What  are  the 
sources  of  contamination?  How  long  is  it  likely  to  persist?  How  widespread  is  the 
contamination?  What  cost-effective  methods  exist  to  remove  the  contaminant(s)  from  water? 
and,  How  can  further  contamination  be  avoided?  A  recent  review  of  fuel  oxygenates  and  water 
quality  (Interagency  Oxygenated  Fuels  Assessment  Steering  Committee,  1997)  notes  that  for 
various  reasons,  including  the  potentially  greater  persistence  of  MTBE  in  ground  water  than  other 
components  of  gasoline,  remediation  of  MTBE-contaminated  ground  water  may  pose  unique 
problems.  The  Interagency  Assessment  also  notes  the  possibility  that  ground  water  could  be 
contaminated  by  deposition  of  oxygenates  from  the  ambient  atmosphere.  A  quantitative  answer 
to  whether  non-point  sources  or  point  sources,  such  as  leaking  underground  storage  tanks 
(USTs),  pose  a  greater  potential  risk  of  environmental  contamination  is  not  available. 

Risk  assessment  and  risk  management  require  information  that  is  generally  obtained  through 
research,  data  collection,  or  analysis  of  data  that  already  exist.  The  purpose  of  this  document  is  to 
identify  the  key  information  needed  to  assess  and  manage  the  potential  health  and  environmental 


2 


risks  related  to  oxygenates  in  water.  This  document  builds  on  an  earlier  report,  Oxyfuels 
Information  Needs  (U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  1996),  which  encompassed  water 
issues  but  tended  to  emphasize  inhalation  health  risk  issues.  As  noted  in  Oxyfuels  Information 
Needs,  the  benefits  and  risks  of  any  given  oxyfuel  must  be  assessed  in  relation  to  an  alternative, 
such  as  conventional  gasoline.  A  comparative  assessment  of  the  potential  risks  or  benefits  of  any 
given  fuel  in  relation  to  any  other  fuel  is  obviously  a  complex,  multifaceted  endeavor  (see  U.S. 
Environmental  Protection  Agency,  1992).  The  present  document  is  much  more  limited  in  scope. 

It  focuses  on  key  information  required  to  support  the  most  pressing  risk  assessment  and  risk 
management  needs  pertaining  to  oxygenates  in  water,  with  the  aim  of  achieving  progress  more 
readily  than  would  be  possible  by  attempting  to  cover  every  possible  issue  in  a  comprehensive 
manner.  However,  one  should  not  lose  sight  of  the  broader  and  perhaps  ultimate  issue  of  the  need 
to  examine  quantitatively  the  trade-offs  between  sought  improvements  in  air  quality  through  the 
use  of  oxygenates  and  possible  reductions  in  water  quality  through  oxygenate  contamination. 

This  document  is  primarily  intended  to  serve  as  a  starting  point  and  general  guide  to 
planning  research  related  to  oxygenates  in  water.  It  does  not  attempt  to  describe  in  detail  specific 
studies  and  projects  that  are  needed.  Nor  is  this  document  a  formal  assessment  of  environmental 
or  health  risks  associated  with  oxygenates  or  an  in-depth  analysis  of  candidate  risk  management 
options  for  addressing  this  problem.  Other  reports  are  available  for  more  detailed  reviews  of  the 
health  and  environmental  effects  of  oxygenates  (e.g.,  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency, 
1993,  1994;  Health  Effects  Institute,  1996;  Interagency  Oxygenated  Fuels  Assessment  Steering 
Committee,  1996,  1997;  National  Research  Council,  1996),  particularly  the  “Water  Quality” 
chapter  from  the  Interagency  Assessment  of  Oxygenated  Fuels  (Interagency  Oxygenated  Fuels 
Assessment  Steering  Committee,  1997).  Note  that  all  of  these  reports  have  pointed  out  the  lack 
of  adequate  information  to  assess  fully  and  definitively  the  risks  and  benefits  associated  with 
oxyfuels  in  comparison  to  conventional  fuels. 

Some  brief  background  information  on  why  fuel  oxygenates  are  used  may  be  helpful. 

The  1 990  Clean  Air  Act  Amendments  (C AAA)  created  two  fuel  programs  to  be  administered  by 
EPA  requiring  use  of  oxygenates  (U.S.  Code,  1990).  The  first  program  began  in  the  fall  of  1992 
with  the  objective  of  reducing  carbon  monoxide  (CO)  emissions  in  several  areas  of  the  country 
where  the  National  Ambient  Air  Quality  Standard  (NAAQS)  for  CO  was  exceeded.  Under  this 
program,  the  CAAA  required  the  sale  of  gasoline  with  an  oxygen  content  of  2.7%  by  weight 


3 


during  the  cold  weather  season  in  designated  areas  that  failed  to  attain  the  NAAQS  for  CO. 

The  second  program  required  the  year-round  use  of  reformulated  gasoline  (RFG)  containing 
2.0%  oxygen  by  weight,  beginning  in  1995,  in  selected  areas  having  the  highest  levels  of 
tropospheric  ozone.  In  addition  to  reducing  emissions  of  ozone  precursors,  the  RFG  program 
also  was  intended  to  help  reduce  the  emissions  of  certain  toxic  organic  air  pollutants. 

Collectively,  cold-weather  oxygenated  gasoline  and  year-round  RFG  with  oxygenate  may  be 
referred  to  as  “oxyfuels.” 

Although  MTBE  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  ethanol  currently  dominate  the  marketplace,  no 
specific  oxygenate  is  required  or  designated  by  the  1990  CAAA.  Several  other  ethers  and 
alcohols  also  may  serve  as  oxygenates  and  could  become  more  prevalent,  depending  on  various 
factors  such  as  cost,  ease  of  production  and  transfer,  and  blending  characteristics.  These 
oxygenates  include  ethyl  tertiary  butyl  ether  (ETBE),  tertiary  amyl  methyl  ether  (TAME),  tertiary 
amyl  ethyl  ether  (TAEE),  diisopropyl  ether  (DIPE),  dimethyl  ether  (DME),  and  tertiary  butanol 
(TBA).  The  chemical  properties  of  several  oxygenates  are  listed  in  Appendix  1.  To  achieve  the 
specified  oxygen  content  requirements,  approximately  15%-vol  MTBE  or  7.5%-vol  ethanol  can 
be  used  to  yield  the  2.7%-wt  oxygen  for  the  winter  fuel  program  and  approximately  1 1%-vol 
MTBE  or  5.5%-vol  ethanol  for  the  2.0%-wt  oxygen  required  by  the  RFG  fuel  program. 

According  to  EPA’s  Office  of  Mobile  Sources,  about  30%  of  U.S.  gasoline  currently 
contains  some  form  of  oxygenate  for  air  quality  improvement  purposes.  Beginning  in  the  late 
1970s,  MTBE  and  ethanol  were  used  to  increase  the  octane  value  of  gasoline  in  the  United  States 
as  lead  was  phased  out.  Approximately  25%  or  more  of  U.S.  fuel  may  have  contained  MTBE  or 
ethanol  as  an  octane-enhancer  in  a  given  year,  but  the  current  usage  of  MTBE  for  octane  is 
considerably  lower,  constituting  perhaps  3  to  5%  of  the  fuel  supply.  These  levels  of  usage  are 
subject  to  alteration  as  economic  variables  (e.g.,  the  price  of  crude  oil)  and  other  factors  change. 
The  concentration  of  MTBE  used  for  octane  purposes  in  conventional  gasoline  may  vary  widely 
up  to  an  allowable  limit  of  1 5%-vol  MTBE,  depending  on  other  constituents  and  properties  of  the 
fuel,  but  likely  is  more  on  the  order  of  1  to  8%-vol  MTBE.  Gasoline  containing  10%  ethanol, 
often  referred  to  as  “gasohol,”  represents  about  10%  of  all  gasoline  sold  in  the  United  States,  but 
may  be  much  more  prevalent  in  certain  locales,  particularly  in  the  Midwest.  More  than 
10  billion  kg  MTBE  was  used  in  U.S.  gasoline  in  1996,  and  fuel  ethanol  use  was  about  3  billion 
kg  (DeWitt  &  Company,  Incorporated,  1997). 


4 


This  document  applies  to  all  ether  and  alcohol  oxygenates  unless  otherwise  stated.  It  refers 
more  to  MTBE  because  of  its  predominant  use  and  because  more  information  is  available  for 
MTBE  than  for  other  ethers  and  alcohols  (except  perhaps  for  ethanol).  Nevertheless,  it  should 
not  be  inferred  that  the  only  oxygenate  warranting  attention  is  MTBE  or,  for  that  matter,  that  the 
issues  identified  here  are  necessarily  unique  to  oxyfuels. 

This  document  is  organized  around  the  following  headings: 

•  Source  Characterization 

•  Transport 

•  Transformation 

•  Occurrence 

•  Exposure 

•  Aquatic  Toxicity 

•  Health  Effects 

•  Release  Prevention 

•  Contaminant  Removal 

Within  each  of  these  areas,  a  brief  background  section  highlights  available  information  on  key 
issues,  followed  by  a  section  that  identifies  research  or  other  information  gaps  that  emerge  as 
needs.  Note  that  the  grouping  of  topics  is  somewhat  arbitrary.  The  overlap  in  various  areas 
should  be  seen  as  a  potential  benefit  in  terms  of  combining  objectives  and  resources  for  projects 
that  can  be  feasibly  and  appropriately  linked.  Such  leveraging  of  resources  could  extend  across 
organizational  boundaries  as  well. 


2.  SOURCE  CHARACTERIZATION 

2.1  Background 

Releases  of  fuel  oxygenates  occur  during  manufacture,  distribution,  storage,  and  use, 
particularly  from  point  sources  such  as  USTs,  pipelines,  and  refueling  facilities.  According  to  the 
Toxics  Release  Inventory  (TRI),  releases  of  MTBE  from  production  sources  in  the  United  States 
amounted  to  approximately  1.7  million  kg  in  1996  (U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency, 
1998a).  Of  this  total,  about  97%  was  released  to  the  air  and  less  than  3%  was  discharged  to 


5 


surface  water.  For  mobile  sources,  assuming  10  billion  kg  MTBE  used  in  gasoline  (DeWitt  & 
Company,  Incorporated,  1997)  and  an  average  U.S.  corporate  fleet  emission  rate  of 
approximately  3.6  mg  MTBE  per  gram  MTBE  in  fuels  (Wybomy,  1997,  1998),  total  motor 
vehicle  emissions  of  MTBE  in  1 996  would  have  been  on  the  order  of  40  million  kg  in  the  United 
States. 

Impacts  to  water  resources  can  be  loosely  grouped  into  two  categories:  (1)  widespread 
impacts  occurring  at  low  concentrations  and  (2)  local  impacts  occurring  at  high  concentrations. 
The  first  group  is  often  the  result  of  indirect  sources,  such  as  vehicular  emissions  of  oxygenates 
that  dissolve  in  rainfall  and  subsequently  infiltrate  to  ground  water,  and  may  be  spread  over  large 
areas.  Also,  leakage  from  motorized  recreational  water  craft  can  be  considered  a  diffuse  source 
of  contamination  of  surface  water  bodies  such  as  reservoirs.  The  second  category  results  from 
direct  releases  to  surface  and  ground  water  from  such  sources  as  leaking  USTs,  pipelines,  or  tank 
cars. 

Oxygenates  in  the  atmosphere  degrade  with  a  half-life  as  short  as  3  days  (Smith  et  al.,  1991; 
Wallington  et  al.,  1988).  However,  MTBE  is  soluble  in  water  and,  because  of  its  relatively  low 
Henry’s  Law  constant,  partitions  readily  from  air  to  rainfall  and  snowfall.  The  concentration  in 
precipitation  is  determined  primarily  by  the  concentration  in  the  atmosphere,  the  Henry’s  Law 
constant  at  a  given  air  temperature,  the  time  that  the  precipitation  is  exposed  to  MTBE,  and  other 
characteristics  of  the  precipitation  that  determine  contact  efficiency,  e.g.,  rain  droplet  size  and 
snowflake  surface  area  (Hoff  et  al.,  1998).  This  process  could  result  in  deposition  to  land  surface 
and  subsequent  contamination  of  surface  and  ground  water.  Also,  MTBE  could  accumulate  in 
snow  at  sites  such  as  service  stations,  parking  lots,  and  city  streets  and  be  released  as  a  pulse 
source  to  soil  or  ground  water  as  the  snow  melts.  The  detection  of  MTBE  in  41  (7%)  of 
592  stormwater  samples  collected  in  16  cities  and  metropolitan  areas  from  1991  to  1995,  with  the 
highest  percentage  of  detections  found  in  samples  collected  during  high  MTBE  usage  winter 
months  (Delzer  et  al.,  1996),  is  consistent  with  atmospheric  washout  of  MTBE  in  rain  or  snow  to 
the  ground  surface.  Measured  concentrations  of  MTBE  in  the  stormwater  samples  ranged  from 
0.2  to  8.7  pg/L,  with  a  median  of  1.5  pg/L.  Modeling  calculations  have  predicted  MTBE 
concentrations  in  rainwater  ranging  from  <1  pg/L  to  3  pg/L,  within  the  range  of  concentrations 
actually  found  in  groundwater  samples  (Interagency  Oxygenated  Fuels  Assessment  Steering 
Committee,  1997).  Also,  modeling  of  the  transport  of  MTBE  from  land  surface  to  water  table  by 


6 


the  infiltration  of  rain  water,  for  a  variety  of  infiltration  and  evapotranspiration  scenarios,  suggests 
that  the  concentration  of  MTBE  in  groundwater  two  meters  below  the  water  table  can  range  from 
zero  to  almost  200  percent  of  the  concentration  in  the  rain  water  (Pankow  et  al.,  1997).  The  use 
of  shallow  ground  water  for  public  and  private  water  supplies  makes  such  nonpoint  contamination 
a  potential  public  health  issue  as  well  as  an  environmental  quality  issue. 

Direct  releases  of  MTBE  and  other  fuel  oxygenates  to  surface  and  groundwater  sources  of 
drinking  water  also  occur.  The  majority  of  direct  releases  of  MTBE  to  surface  water  reported  to 
TRI  were  attributable  to  only  a  few  petroleum  product  facilities.  However,  refueling  and 
operation  of  boats  and  other  recreational  water  craft  also  are  suspected  as  significant  sources  of 
releases  of  MTBE  to  surface  waters  in  heavily  used  recreational  areas.  Detections  of  MTBE  in 
some  drinking  water  reservoirs  in  California  have  prompted  studies  on  the  input  of  MTBE  to 
surface  waters  via  recreational  watercraft,  precipitation,  and  snowmelt  runoff  (e.g.,  Reuter  et  al., 
1998;  Dale  et  al.,  1997).  Other  possible  sources  of  MTBE  releases  to  surface  water  could  include 
wastewater  treatment  operations  at  petroleum  operations  and  publicly  owned  treatment  works. 

Leaking  USTs  are  believed  to  be  the  primary  source  of  localized  releases  of  MTBE  in  high 
concentrations.  According  to  EPA’s  Office  of  Underground  Storage  Tanks  (OUST),  nearly 
1  million  federally  regulated  USTs  are  currently  in  use  at  approximately  360,000  facilities  in  the 
United  States.  Not  all  of  these  USTs  contain  oxy  fuels  or  gasoline  with  MTBE  or  ethanol  as 
octane  enhancers,  but  it  can  be  roughly  estimated  that  about  50%  of  the  gasoline  sold  in  the 
United  States  in  recent  years  has  contained  MTBE  or  ethanol  (U.S.  Department  of  Energy,  1995). 
Some  of  the  earliest  documented  UST  releases  involving  MTBE  occurred  in  Maine  in  the 
mid-1980s  (Garrett,  1987).  More  recently,  drinking  water  wells  in  Santa  Monica,  CA,  were  shut 
down  because  of  MTBE  contamination  from  one  or  more  leaking  USTs  (Geraghty  &  Miller, 
Incorporated,  1996).  Since  1988,  330,000  confirmed  releases  from  regulated  USTs  have  been 
reported  to  EP A/OUST.  Based  on  historical  trends,  OUST  estimates  that  100,000  additional 
releases  will  be  reported  during  the  next  few  years  as  existing  USTs  are  upgraded,  closed,  or 
replaced.  This  estimate  does  not  include  an  even  greater  number  of  federally  unregulated  storage 
tanks.  Although  EPA  regulations  (§280.21,  Code  of  Federal  Regulations,  1990)  require  that  all 
USTs  be  upgraded,  closed,  or  replaced  by  December  1998,  current  estimates  indicate  that  25  to 
35%  of  USTs  will  not  be  in  compliance  by  that  date. 


7 


Despite  recent  and  ongoing  studies,  it  is  not  clear  whether  the  greater  impact  from  MTBE 
or  other  fuel  oxygenates  to  ground  water  is  from  diffuse  or  point  sources  (i.e.,  what  fraction  of 
the  MTBE  or  other  oxygenate  load  and  exposure  is  diffuse  [e.g.,  from  precipitation]  or  is  related 
specifically  to  spills  or  leaks  from  fuel  containers).  Although  relatively  high  groundwater 
concentrations  may  be  readily  associated  with  point  source  releases,  concentrations  on  the  order 
of  10  pg/L  or  lower  could  be  associated  with  nonpoint  sources  as  well  as  point  sources 
(Interagency  Oxygenated  Fuels  Assessment  Steering  Committee,  1997). 

2.2  Needs 

A  model  linking  air  to  land  to  surface  water  and  ground  water  fate  for  oxygenates  needs  to 
be  developed  and  tested.  Such  an  airshed-watershed  model  could  be  used  to  conduct  ecosystem 
exposure  assessments,  serve  as  a  key  input  to  human  exposure  assessments,  design  management 
and  remediation  strategies,  and  assist  in  source  identification  and  apportionment.  In  particular, 
the  model  could  be  used  to  predict  upper  limit  values  of  surface  and  ground  water  concentrations 
from  ambient  sources  that  could  be  compared  to  measured  values,  such  as  those  expected  from 
the  ongoing  USGS  study  at  Glassboro,  NJ  (Baehr  and  Ayers,  1997).  A  recent  review  of  the 
environmental  behavior  and  fate  of  MTBE  by  Squillace  et  al.  (1997)  summarizes  important 
transport  and  transformation  processes  that  must  be  included  in  such  a  model.  The  model  could 
build  on  recent  work  by  Pankow  et  al.  (1997)  and  Malcolm  Pimie,  Incorporated  (1998a)  on 
modeling  the  ground  water  impacts  from  atmospheric  washout  and  surface  water  impacts  from 
the  use  of  two-stroke  engines.  The  model  also  could  be  used  to  estimate  snow  blanket  buildup  of 
oxygenates  and  subsequent  release  at  first  thaw,  with  the  results  then  compared  to  data  from  field 
studies  as  a  test  of  this  potential  pulse  loading  mechanism  in  a  watershed.  Once  this  modeling 
tool  is  developed  and  tested,  it  could  be  used  to  provide  a  national  estimate  of  ambient 
contributions  to  surface  and  shallow  ground  water.  It  also  could  be  used  to  provide  point  and 
non-point  source  aggregate  concentrations  within  specific  watersheds  as  a  function  of  time 
(season)  for  total  exposure  assessment  purposes. 

The  relative  loads  or  fluxes  of  the  oxygenates  to  surface  and  ground  waters  from  point 
sources  versus  diffuse  (nonpoint)  sources  must  be  more  accurately  determined.  A  possible 
approach  to  addressing  this  need  might  be  the  identification  of  a  “source  signature”  for 
oxygenates  that  would  permit  reliable  source  identification,  and  perhaps  even  source 


8 


apportionment,  when  used  in  conjunction  with  fate  models.  Although  the  identification  of  a 
source  signature  would  be  very  useful,  the  feasibility  of  doing  so  is  unclear,  and  attempts  to 
provide  similar  signatures  for  other  environmental  contaminates  do  not  provide  much  cause  for 
optimism.  Consequently,  this  has  to  be  rated  as  a  lower  priority  than  the  development  of  the 
multimedia  model  described  above. 


3.  TRANSPORT 

3.1  Background 

Oxygenates  may  enter  both  surface  and  ground  water  from  diffuse  and  point  sources  (see 
Section  2,  Source  Characterization).  In  the  case  of  scavenging  from  the  atmosphere  to 
precipitation,  numerical  modeling  by  Pankow  et  al.  (1997)  indicates  that  MTBE  would  transfer 
from  the  unsaturated  zone  into  the  saturated  zone.  However,  no  field  observations  of  MTBE 
concentrations  in  ground  water  during  and  after  precipitation  or  snow  melt  events  are  known  to 
have  been  conducted. 

The  transport  of  oxygenates,  particularly  MTBE,  through  aquifers  would  be  expected  to 
occur  at  nearly  the  same  velocity  as  the  ground  water.  In  a  mixed-composition  contaminant 
source,  such  as  is  found  in  oxygenated  fuels,  each  individual  component  will  travel  at  a  rate 
dependent  on  its  water  solubility  and  sorption  tendency  for  soil.  Oxygenates  generally  are  more 
soluble  in  water  and  less  sorbed  to  soils  than  the  other  major  organic  compounds  in  gasoline, 
namely,  benzene,  toluene,  ethylbenzene,  and  xylenes  (BTEX).  Given  sufficient  time  and  distance, 
each  component  of  the  mixture  will  separate  within  the  plume  according  to  basic  chromatographic 
principles.  Consequently,  MTBE  and  other  oxygenates  would  be  expected  to  be  at  the  leading 
edge  of  the  plume  or,  in  the  extreme  case  over  a  long  period  of  time,  could  become  completely 
separated  from  the  rest  of  the  plume  if  the  original  source  of  oxygenate  were  eliminated. 

If  biodegradation  of  the  oxygenate  occurs  (see  Section  4,  Transformation),  it  will  interact  with  the 
transport  process  such  that  the  front  may  appear  to  recede  or  be  stabilized. 

Generally,  aquifer  vulnerability  to  oxygenate  contamination  can  be  predicted  using  current 
wellhead  protection  models  on  a  case-by-case  basis.  The  required  parameters  for  these  models 
are  hydrologic,  geologic,  and  contaminant-specific.  The  required  chemical  data  for  modeling 


9 


oxygenate  transport  are  generally  known,  but  transformation  rates  for  the  subsurface  soil,  vadose 
zone,  and  aquifers  are  required  to  run  these  models.  The  vulnerability  of  deep  aquifers  to 
oxygenate  contamination  is  not  well  documented.  In  particular,  the  threat  to  deep  aquifers  due  to 
abandoned  wells  and/or  karst  topography  has  not  been  assessed.  Similarly,  the  threat  to  surface 
streams  and  lakes  has  not  been  assessed,  even  though  suitable  fate  models  for  both  exist.  Again, 
adequate  oxygenate  loading  models  and  fate  parameters  are  needed  to  apply  these  models, 
particularly  biodegradation  rates,  photolysis  rates,  and  net  air- water  exchange  rates. 

3.2  Needs 

Given  the  progress  made  in  the  last  several  years  on  modeling  the  fate  (transport  and 
transformation)  of  organic  compounds,  particularly  BTEX  compounds,  in  soils,  ground  water, 
and  surface  water,  reasonable  estimates  of  transport  between  and  through  environmental  media 
can  be  made  for  oxygenates.  For  example,  MTBE  is  expected  to  move  through  soil  and  ground 
water  at  a  higher  rate  than  BTEX  compounds  because  it  is  more  water  soluble  and  less  retarded 
by  the  solid  matrix.  However,  the  impact  that  biodegradation  will  have  on  MTBE  plume 
movement  is  less  well  understood.  The  greatest  need,  therefore,  is  to  determine  biodegradation 
rates  for  MTBE,  other  oxygenates,  and  their  by-products  under  typical  soil-groundwater  transport 
conditions  (as  outlined  in  Section  4,  Transformation).  Field  studies  are  needed  to  validate 
modeled  rates  of  MTBE  infiltration  during  precipitation  events  to  determine  the  extent  that 
diffuse  sources  contribute  to  groundwater  contamination,  particularly  shallow  aquifers  used  for 
private  wells.  Three  dimensional  delineation  of  MTBE  plume  morphology  in  a  variety  of 
hydrological  settings  can  be  accomplished  using  push  sampling  techniques  at  multiple  levels. 

Deep  aquifer  vulnerability  should  be  examined  by  applying  state-of-the-art  fate  models  for 
scenarios  that  include  karst-fractured  flow  effects  and  abandoned  wells  in  areas  that  have  high 
oxygenate  use. 

Field  studies  of  the  type  the  USGS  Toxics  Program  (Baehr  et  al.,  1997)  is  conducting  are 
needed  to  quantify  the  combined  impact  of  precipitation,  land  use,  and  storm  water  management 
practices  on  oxygenate  loadings  to  surface  and  ground  waters,  and  to  develop  and  test  multimedia 
exposure  models.  Stream  and  lake  threat  assessments  also  should  be  conducted  to  bound  the 
potential  threats  from  both  diffuse  and  point  sources  of  oxygenates  and  their  degradation 
products. 


10 


4.  TRANSFORMATION 


4.1  Background 

Contaminants  may  be  transformed  through  a  variety  of  chemical,  physical,  or  biological 
processes.  As  a  result,  the  mass,  toxicity,  mobility,  volume,  or  concentration  of  parent 
contaminants  in  soil  and  water  may  be  altered.  The  resulting  products  of  these  transformation 
processes  may  in  turn  pose  either  a  greater  or  lesser  risk.  For  surface  water,  potential 
transformation  processes  are  biodegradation,  photolysis,  and  hydrolysis.  In  ground  water,  the 
potential  transformation  processes  include  biodegradation  and  hydrolysis.  In  surface  water, 
photolysis  is  the  most  important  transformation  process  for  ether  oxygenates,  and  biodegradation 
is  the  most  important  process  for  alcohols.  Basic  photolytic  and  hydrolytic  processes  are 
adequately  understood. 

Studies  on  the  rates  and  pathways  of  environmental  MTBE  biodegradation  are  inconclusive, 
in  part  because  they  have  been  conducted  under  different  conditions.  For  example,  Suflita  and 
Mormile  (1993)  reported  no  biodegradation  of  MTBE  in  lab  microcosms  under  a  variety  of 
aerobic  and  anaerobic  conditions,  using  sediments  from  a  petroleum-contaminated  site.  Salanitro 
et  al.  (1994),  however,  reported  complete  mineralization  of  MTBE  to  C02  in  a  mixed  culture  that 
was  continuously  sparged  with  oxygen.  In  another  study  (Petroleum  Environmental  Research 
Forum,  1993),  MTBE  was  biodegraded  when  inoculated  with  a  specific  bacterial  enrichment  but 
not  when  inoculated  with  activated  sludge.  Limited  biodegradation  was  observed  in  sediments 
under  methanogenic  conditions  (Mormile  et  al.,  1994)  and  in  aerobic  microcosms  constructed 
with  aquifer  material  obtained  from  the  vicinity  of  the  source  area  of  a  plume  of  dissolved  BTEX 
and  MTBE  (Borden  et  al.,  1997).  Steffan  et  al.  (1997)  found  that  a  number  of  propane-oxidizing 
bacteria  were  able  to  degrade  high  concentrations  of  MTBE,  ETBE,  and  TAME.  A  series  of 
degradation  products  were  formed  but  did  not  prove  to  be  effective  growth  substrates.  Marked 
reduction  in  the  concentrations  of  MTBE  and  benzene  following  termination  of  active  remediation 
of  fuel  contamination  was  observed  at  a  site  in  North  Carolina  (Cho  et  al.,  1997).  Products  of 
MTBE  biodegradation  have  been  reported  to  include  TBA  (Mormile  et  al.,  1994),  but 
comprehensive  identification  of  biodegradation  products  and  reaction  pathways  has  not  been 
undertaken. 


11 


Results  from  field  studies  of  the  natural  biodegradation  of  MTBE  in  ground  water  show  that 
the  processes  involved  generally  take  place  at  very  slow  rates  or  with  long  lag  times,  and  depend 
on  site-specific  geochemical  conditions.  Schinner  and  Barker  (1998)  found  that  during  the  first 
16  months  following  a  controlled  injection  of  oxygenated  gasoline  in  a  sandy  aquifer  in  Ontario, 
there  was  little  evidence  for  the  biodegradation  of  MTBE.  However,  when  the  aquifer  was 
sampled  seven  years  later,  the  mass  of  MTBE  had  declined  by  more  than  an  order  of  magnitude. 
Although  the  authors  hypothesized  that  natural  biodegradation  may  have  been  responsible  for  this 
disappearance,  they  noted  the  need  for  confirmatory  lines  of  evidence  to  support  this  hypothesis. 
In  contrast,  Landmeyer  et  al.  (1998)  studied  an  accidental  spill  in  South  Carolina  over  a  five  year 
period  and  concluded  that  dispersion  and  dilution  were  primarily  responsible  for  decreases  in  the 
concentration  of  MTBE,  with  biodegradation  playing  a  very  minor  role. 

Ethanol  may  pose  a  different  issue  with  respect  to  oxyfuel  biodegradation.  Recent  reports 
have  noted  that  the  presence  of  ethanol  in  gasoline  may  inhibit  the  biodegradation  of  BTEX 
compounds  in  groundwater,  perhaps  because  microbes  preferentially  metabolize  the  ethanol 
(Corseuil  and  Alvarez,  1996;  Corseuil  et  al.,  1996,  1998;  Hunt  et  al.,  1997).  As  a  result,  these 
BTEX  plumes  may  persist  longer  and  become  larger. 

The  above  discussion  is  not  a  comprehensive  summary  of  studies  on  the  biodegradation  of 
MTBE  and  other  oxygenates,  but  it  does  illustrate  the  variety  of  results  observed.  Most  of  the 
studies  were  conducted  in  laboratories,  and  the  results  are  not  necessarily  representative  of  what 
might  occur  in  the  field.  In  addition,  the  observed  rates  of  degradation  vary  widely,  and  this 
variability  will  impact  the  applicability  of  biodegradation  as  a  remedial  option  (see  Section  1 0, 
Contaminant  Removal). 

4.2  Needs 

Biodegradation  rates  and  pathways  for  MTBE  and  other  oxygenates  need  to  be  measured 
experimentally  to  understand  and  predict  the  fate  of  these  compounds  in  the  environment,  and  to 
design  cost-effective  removal  and  remediation  technologies.  The  rates  of  biodegradation  will  be 
key  in  understanding  the  fate  of  oxygenates  in  the  subsurface,  in  developing  in  situ  and  ex  situ 
contaminant  treatments,  in  implementing  natural  attenuation  protocols,  and  in  conducting  aquifer 
vulnerability  modeling.  Identification  of  by-products  and  characterization  of  their  environmental 
fate  are  needed  to  develop  a  complete  picture  of  the  effects  of  oxygenates  on  the  environment  and 


12 


consequently  the  risks  they  may  pose.  Natural  or  intrinsic  bioremediation  is  being  widely 
accepted  as  either  a  primary  or  “polishing”  process  for  groundwater  remediation.  Rapid 
transport,  coupled  with  a  slow  rate  of  biodegradation,  if  confirmed,  could  limit  the  application  of 
this  remediation  strategy  as  it  relates  to  MTBE  and  possibly  other  oxygenates. 

Additional  field-scale  and  complementary  laboratory  microcosm  studies  are  needed  for  sites 
with  a  variety  of  geochemical  conditions  and  contamination  scenarios.  The  geochemical 
conditions  should  reflect  those  commonly  found  in  contaminated  groundwater  systems,  including 
a  range  of  redox  and  pH  conditions,  to  determine  the  relative  importance  of  aerobic  and  anaerobic 
processes  in  MTBE  degradation.  The  contamination  scenarios  should  include  regions  not  only 
near  the  source  where  concentrations  will  be  the  highest  but  downgradient  from  the  source  where 
concentrations  are  likely  to  be  much  lower,  as  well  as  during  vadose  zone  infiltration  by 
contaminated  storm  water.  The  laboratory  studies  also  should  investigate  the  rates  of 
biodegradation  for  high,  moderate,  and  low  concentrations  of  oxygenates,  particularly  as  the 
concentration  approaches  a  cleanup  standard.  Transformation  products  need  to  be  identified  and 
quantified  so  that  specific  biochemical  pathways  and  degradation  product  yields  under  different 
conditions  can  be  determined.  Along  this  line,  more  attention  should  be  given  to  other 
oxygenates  that  are  not  yet  being  used  on  as  wide  a  scale  as  MTBE  and  ethanol  but  that  could 
come  into  more  widespread  use.  The  possibility  that  ethanol  or  other  oxygenates  may  inhibit  the 
biodegradation  of  BTEX  should  be  evaluated. 


5.  OCCURRENCE 

5.1  Background 

Although  scattered  incidents  of  localized  water  contamination  by  MTBE  have  been  reported 
since  the  early  1980s,  the  first  report  to  suggest  that  oxygenate  contamination  of  water  might  be 
occurring  on  a  widespread  basis  came  as  a  result  of  the  USGS  National  Water  Quality 
Assessment  (NAWQA)  program.  Designed  to  assess  the  status  and  trends  in  the  quality  of 
ground  and  surface  water  resources  of  the  nation,  the  NAWQA  program  began  sampling  ground 
waters  for  MTBE  in  1993  (and  added  TAME,  ETBE,  and  DIPE  in  1996).  In  an  initial  analysis  of 
the  NAWQA  program’s  first  20  study  areas  or  units,  MTBE  was  the  second  most  frequently 


13 


detected  volatile  organic  compound  (VOC)  in  shallow  ground  water  from  selected  urban  areas 
monitored  during  1993  and  1994  (Squillace  et  al.,  1996).  Of  210  sampled  wells  and  springs, 

56  (27%)  contained  MTBE  at  a  minimum  reporting  level  of  0.2  pg/L.  (For  comparison,  28% 
contained  chloroform  and  5%  contained  benzene.)  Sixty  wells  and  one  spring  contained  MTBE 
and/or  BTEX;  of  these  61  sites,  79%  had  MTBE  alone,  and  13%  had  both  MTBE  and  BTEX. 

Of  all  the  urban  wells  and  springs  sampled,  3%  had  MTBE  concentrations  exceeding  20  pg/L. 

Since  the  USGS  findings,  other  studies  have  provided  data  that  supplement  the  picture  of 
MTBE  occurrence  in  ground,  surface,  and  drinking  water.  However,  it  is  difficult  to  characterize 
the  overall  occurrence  of  oxygenate  contamination  because  reports  vary  in  their  focus,  methods, 
geographic  coverage,  and  time  frames.  Also,  some  monitoring  programs  are  ongoing,  with 
reports  updated  continually  via  the  internet.  Therefore,  this  discussion  can  offer  only  an 
impressionistic  treatment  of  the  subject.  Although  the  relative  contributions  of  point  and 
non-point  sources  are  yet  to  be  determined  (see  Section  2,  Source  Characterization),  sites  of 
known  or  possible  UST  releases  obviously  warrant  particular  attention.  For  example,  Happel 
et  al.  (1998)  analyzed  data  from  236  leaking  UST  sites  in  California  and  found  that  MTBE  was 
detected  at  78%  of  these  sites.  Of  the  32,409  known  leaking  UST  sites  in  California,  13,278  are 
known  to  have  contaminated  groundwater.  Based  on  their  analysis,  Happel  et  al.  estimated  that 
the  minimum  number  of  California  UST  sites  with  MTBE  present  was  greater  than  10,000. 

Buscheck  et  al.  (1998)  evaluated  groundwater  plume  monitoring  data  from  more  than 
700  service  station  sites  in  four  states  in  different  regions  of  the  country.  MTBE  was  detected  at 
approximately  83%  of  the  sites,  with  about  43%  of  all  sites  having  MTBE  concentrations  greater 
than  1,000  pg/L.  The  highest  frequencies  of  detection  occurred  at  sites  of  currently  operating 
stations  (n  =  466)  in  Texas  and  Maryland  (96  and  98%),  with  northern  and  southern  California 
intermediate  (83  and  84%),  and  Florida  the  lowest  (76%).  Similar  but  slightly  lower  rates  of 
occurrence  were  found  at  sites  with  nonoperating  stations  (n  =  243).  Concentrations  greater  than 
1,000  pg/L  were  found  at  55%  of  the  operating  sites  and  22%  of  the  nonoperating  sites. 

The  authors  suggested  that  differences  in  the  incidence  and  levels  of  MTBE  occurrence  may  have 
been  due  to  factors  such  as  hydrogeologic  differences,  differing  histories  of  MTBE  usage,  and 
UST  upgrade  efforts  in  the  states  considered. 

An  EPA-supported  survey  of  the  50  states  and  District  of  Columbia  found  that,  of  the 
34  states  that  acquire  MTBE  data  from  leaking  UST  sites,  27  (79%)  indicated  that  MTBE  was 


14 


present  at  more  than  20%  of  their  sites  and  1 0  (29%)  reported  MTBE  at  more  than  80%  of  their 
sites  (Hitzig  et  al.,  1998).  Interestingly,  five  states  reported  detecting  MTBE  (at  >20  pg/L)  with 
non-gasoline  petroleum  such  as  diesel  fuel,  jet  fuel,  and  heating  oil.  The  survey  also  asked  about 
contamination  of  drinking  water  wells.  Of  the  49  state  programs  that  responded  to  the  survey, 

25  (5 1  %)  had  received  reports  of  private  wells  contaminated  with  MTBE.  It  was  estimated  that 
the  total  number  of  contaminated  private  wells  ranged  from  2,256  to  2,663.  In  addition, 

19  (39%)  programs  had  reports  of  public  drinking  water  wells  contaminated  with  MTBE,  with  the 
estimated  total  number  of  such  wells  ranging  from  251  to  422.  These  totals  are  presented  as 
ranges  because  the  survey  requested  data  in  ranges  (e.g.,  1-10,  1 1-20,  etc.)  or  as  highest  estimates 
(e.g.,  estimate  if  greater  than  40). 

The  contamination  of  drinking  water  wells  also  was  examined  by  the  USGS  in  an  extension 
of  the  NAWQA  study  described  above  (Squillace  et  ah,  1996).  Data  were  collected  in  1995  from 
additional  wells  in  the  same  20  NAWQA  study  units,  combined  with  previously  collected  data 
from  these  units,  and  analyzed  for  the  entire  period  of  1993-1995  (Zogorski  et  ah,  1998). 

The  data  were  sorted  according  to  whether  or  not  the  sampled  wells  were  used  for  drinking 
water.  This  analysis  showed  MTBE  detections  in  12  (14%)  of  83  urban  wells  used  for  drinking 
water  and  in  1 9  (2%)  of  949  rural  wells  used  for  drinking  water,  with  a  median  concentration  of 
approximately  0.50  pg/L.  Only  one  of  the  more  than  1,000  samples  exceeded  the  EPA  Drinking 
Water  Advisory  of  20-40  pg/L. 

The  USGS  findings  for  drinking  water  wells  are  consistent  in  certain  respects  with  results 
from  a  recent  study  in  Maine  in  which  951  household  drinking  water  wells  and  793  Public  Water 
Supplies  (PWSs)  were  sampled  for  MTBE  (Maine  Department  of  Human  Services,  Bureau  of 
Health,  1998).  At  a  minimum  reporting  level  of  0.1  pg/L,  preliminary  results  showed  MTBE 
detections  in  150  (15.8%)  of  the  sampled  household  wells.  The  incidence  of  private  well  samples 
exceeding  state’s  maximum  contaminant  level  of  35  pg/L  for  MTBE  was  1.1%,  somewhat  higher 
than  the  incidence  of  such  concentrations  in  the  USGS  analysis.  The  Maine  report  projected  that 
approximately  1,400-5,200  private  wells  across  the  state  could  be  contaminated  at  levels 
exceeding  35  pg/L.  For  the  Maine  PWSs,  125  (16%)  of  the  samples  had  detectable  levels  of 
MTBE,  with  no  samples  above  the  35  pg/L  standard  and  48  (6.1%)  between  1  pg/L  and  35  pg/L. 

In  another  recent  study,  the  American  Water  Works  Service  Company  (Siddiqui  et  al., 

1998)  collected  data  from  drinking  water  wells  in  16  states.  Forty-four  (2%)  of  2,120  samples 


15 


from  17  (4%)  of  450  wells  tested  positive  for  MTBE  at  a  minimum  reporting  level  of  0.2  pg/L, 
with  the  highest  concentration  reported  at  8.0  pg/L.  The  detections  occurred  primarily  in  eastern 
states  in  areas  with  known  UST  releases. 

Since  February  1997,  the  California  Department  of  Health  Services  has  required  public 
water  suppliers  to  monitor  their  drinking  water  sources  (i.e.,  ground  water  and  surface  water)  for 
MTBE.  To  date,  over  4,566  (39%)  of  1 1,837  drinking  water  sources  in  California  have  been 
sampled  for  MTBE  (California  Department  of  Health  Services,  1998).  Of  these,  26  (0.6%) 
sources  (18  ground  water  and  8  surface  water)  had  detectable  levels  of  MTBE,  including 
9  sources  with  samples  exceeding  California’s  drinking  water  interim  action  level  of  35  pg/L. 
These  data  are  based  on  a  detection  limit  of  5  pg/L.  If  all  detections  are  considered,  including 
possible  false  positives  below  5  pg/L,  65  sources  (1.4%)  had  detectable  levels  of  MTBE.  None 
of  the  surface  water  samples  exceeded  35  pg/L. 

Other  USGS  regional  studies  are  ongoing  for  New  England  aquifers  (Grady,  1997),  aquifers 
and  surface  waters  of  Long  Island,  New  York  and  in  New  Jersey  (Stackelberg  et  al.,  1997),  and 
fractured  bedrock  aquifers  in  Pennsylvania  (Lindsey  et  al.,  1997).  Also,  the  USGS  and  EPA 
entered  into  a  cooperative  agreement  to  conduct  a  pilot  study  (managed  under  the  USGS 
National  Synthesis  Program)  in  12  northeastern  states  to  describe  the  occurrence  and  distribution 
of  MTBE  and  other  VOC’s  in  drinking  water  sources  through  a  stratified  statistical  sampling  of 
recent  public  water  supply  system  data  (both  ground  water  and  surface  water)  and  ambient 
ground  water  data  (Grady,  1997). 

To  require  monitoring  of  drinking  water  for  MTBE  or  other  oxygenates,  EPA  must  first 
promulgate  regulations  requiring  the  collection  of  the  data,  with  monitoring  schedules  based  on 
the  size  of  the  public  water  system.  As  required  by  the  Safe  Drinking  Water  Act  (SDWA), 
amended  in  1996  (U.S.  Code,  1996),  EPA  published  a  drinking  water  Contaminant  Candidate  List 
(CCL)  on  March  2,  1998  (Federal  Register,  1998).  The  CCL  is  a  list  of  currently  unregulated 
contaminants  targeted  for  consideration  in  priority -setting  for  the  Agency’s  drinking  water 
program,  including  regulatory  determinations,  drinking  water  research,  occurrence  monitoring, 
and  guidance  development  such  as  health  advisories.  The  1998  CCL  identified  MTBE  as  a 
contaminant  with  specific  data  gaps  in  the  areas  of  health  effects  and  occurrence  data.  These  data 
gaps  must  be  filled  in  order  for  EPA  to  make  a  scientifically  informed  determination  as  to  whether 
or  not  MTBE  should  be  regulated  with  a  health-based  National  Primary  Drinking  Water 


16 


Regulation.  The  CCL  also  serves  as  a  source  list  of  chemicals  to  evaluate  for  possible  inclusion  in 
the  Unregulated  Contaminant  Monitoring  Rule  (UCMR),  required  by  the  SDWA  to  be  finalized 
by  August  1999.  The  proposed  UCMR  is  expected  to  be  published  by  early  1999  and  to  include 
MTBE.  Contaminants  included  in  the  forthcoming  rule  will  be  subject  to  required  monitoring  by 
the  states.  Data  collected  during  implementation  of  the  final  UCMR  will  be  stored  in  the  National 
Contaminant  Occurrence  Database  (NCOD).  The  NCOD  will  provide  the  basis  for  identifying 
contaminants  for  future  CCLs,  supporting  the  Administrator’s  decisions  to  regulate  contaminants 
in  the  future,  and  to  assist  in  reviewing  existing  regulations  and  monitoring  requirements  every  six 
years,  as  required  by  SDWA. 

The  Clean  Water  Act,  Section  305(b)  (U.S.  Code,  1977)  requires  states  and  other 
participating  jurisdictions  to  submit  water  quality  assessment  reports  to  EPA  every  two  years. 
Based  on  these  reports,  EPA  prepares  the  National  Water  Quality  Inventory  Report  to  Congress. 
However,  a  state  may  or  may  not  provide  data  on  specific  unregulated  contaminants  such  as 
MTBE  in  305(b)  reports,  depending  on  the  individual  state’s  water  quality  priorities. 

The  detection  and  reporting  of  oxygenate  contamination  in  water  presupposes  that  adequate 
analytic  methods  are  available  for  this  purpose.  The  ether  oxygenates  can  be  analyzed  with 
several  standard  EPA  methods.  The  most  reliable  methods  use  purge-and-trap  capillary  column 
gas  chromatography/mass  spectrometry  (GC/MS)  such  as  EPA  Drinking  Water  Method  524.2 
(Eichelberger  et  al.,  1992),  EPA  Waste  Water  Method  624  (U.S.  Environmental  Protection 
Agency,  1998b),  or  EPA  Solid  Waste  (SW-846)  Method  8260B  (U.S.  Environmental  Protection 
Agency,  1998c).  The  USGS  GC/MS  method  SH2020  also  has  been  determined  to  be  reliable  for 
ether  oxygenates  (Connor  et  al.,  1998).  These  GC/MS  methods  provide  positive  identification  of 
specific  constituents  and,  as  such,  they  overcome  the  problem  of  false  identification  of  coeluting 
constituents.  Standard  EPA  methods  that  use  a  GC/photoionization  detector  (PID)  (i.e.,  Drinking 
Water  Method  502.2,  Waste  Water  Method  602,  SW-846  Method  8021)  also  can  be  useful,  but 
because  identification  with  these  methods  is  based  on  the  expected  time  that  a  chemical  takes  to 
pass  through  the  capillary  column,  false  positives  are  possible  from  coeluting  constituents. 
Depending  on  the  purpose  of  the  analysis  (e.g.,  UST  site  assessment,  drinking  water  supply 
monitoring),  the  problem  of  false  identification  can  be  minimized  by  first  determining  if  MTBE  or 
another  ether  oxygenate  is  present  with  a  GC/MS  method,  then  performing  analyses  on  additional 
samples  with  a  GC/PID  method  (Happel  et  al.,  1998).  Gas  chromatography /flame  ionization 


17 


detector  (FID)  methods  can  be  useful  for  detection  of  the  alcohols  as  well  as  the  ether 
oxygenates.  However,  as  with  PID,  FID  is  subject  to  misidentification  of  coeluting  compounds, 
and  because  FID  is  sensitive  to  all  organic  compounds,  detection  of  specific  compounds  can  be 
more  difficult  than  with  other  equipment.  Despite  these  problems,  a  two-dimensional  GC/FID 
method  for  water  samples  with  high  hydrocarbon  content  has  been  developed  using  a  modified 
ASTM  method  D4815  (Galperin,  1998).  This  method  has  been  approved  for  use  in  California. 
Both  EPA  methods  8260B  and  the  modified  ASTM  method  4815  are  capable  of  detecting  TBA 
concurrently  with  the  ether  oxygenates,  although  the  detection  limit  for  TBA  is  significantly 
higher  than  the  detection  limits  for  the  ether  oxygenates — approximately  30  to  40  pg/L  for  TBA 
and  less  than  1  pg/L  for  the  ethers  (Rhodes  et  al.,  1998).  However,  a  direct  aqueous  injection 
GC/MS  method  (Church  et  al.,  1997)  exists  for  detection  of  low  levels  of  the  ether  oxygenates 
and  TBA. 

5.2  Needs 

As  stated  in  the  Interagency  Assessment  of  Oxygenated  Fuels  (Interagency  Oxygenated 
Fuels  Assessment  Steering  Committee,  1997)  and  affirmed  by  the  NAS/NRC  Review  Committee 
(National  Research  Council,  1996),  oxygenates  should  be  added  to  existing  VOC  analyte 
schedules  and  included  as  routine  target  analytes  for  VOCs  in  drinking  water,  waste  water, 
surface  water,  ground  water,  and  remediation  sites.  Monitoring  should  be  long  term  to  support 
trend  analyses  of  possible  changes  in  water  quality  and  the  potential  for  population  exposures. 
However,  some  discretion  should  be  exercised  with  respect  to  including  oxygenates  that  have  not 
been  used  or  are  not  expected  to  be  used  to  any  appreciable  extent,  if  by  their  inclusion  the  cost  of 
such  monitoring  would  be  significantly  increased.  Similarly,  any  decision  to  monitor  for 
oxygenate  transformation  products  on  a  widespread  basis  should  be  guided  by  information  on  the 
occurrence  of  the  respective  parent  oxygenates  and  by  definitive  identification  of  the  respective 
transformation  products  that  would  be  targeted  (see  Section  4,  Transformation).  Given  the 
existence  of  TBA  as  a  primary  oxygenate,  as  a  contaminant  of  MTBE,  and  as  a  degradation 
product  of  MTBE,  the  inclusion  of  TBA  in  ambient  ground  water  quality  monitoring  programs  is 
advisable.  It  also  would  be  useful  to  monitor  for  TBA  at  specific  sites  where  MTBE 
contamination  is  known  or  suspected  to  have  occurred. 


18 


The  Interagency  Assessment  of  Oxygenated  Fuels  (Interagency  Oxygenated  Fuels 
Assessment  Steering  Committee,  1997)  recommended  that  a  national  database  for  monitoring 
data  should  be  developed  cooperatively  among  relevant  governmental  and  private  organizations, 
to  be  administered  by  a  single  federal  agency.  At  present,  existing  “national”  databases  appear  to 
be  limited  in  their  respective  scopes.  The  EPA  Safe  Drinking  Water  Information  System 
(SDWIS)  contains  drinking  water  data  from  public  water  supply  distribution  systems,  whereas  the 
USGS  National  Water  Inventory  System  database  contains  ambient  water  quality  data. 

As  specified  by  the  SDWA  Amendments  of  1996,  EPA’s  Office  of  Ground  Water  and  Drinking 
Water  is  currently  developing  the  first  release  version  (by  August  1999)  of  the  NCOD,  which  will 
expand  the  existing  capabilities  of  SDWIS.  In  the  longer-term  (i.e.,  2000  -  2002)  the  Agency 
plans  to  upgrade  the  NCOD  to  include  both  public  water  system  and  ambient  water  quality  data. 

Assuming  that  oxygenates  are  added  to  VOC  analyte  monitoring  lists,  an  effort  should  be 
made  after  a  reasonable  period  (e.g.,  3  to  5  years  from  now)  to  analyze  these  or  other  databases 
for  trends  in  the  occurrence  of  oxygenates  in  water.  These  analyses  should  be  linked  to  exposure 
assessment  efforts  (see  Section  6,  Exposure)  and  evaluated  for  guidance  as  to  whether  more 
intensive  monitoring  or  other  actions  are  warranted.  To  the  extent  possible,  monitoring  efforts 
and  database  designs  should  be  undertaken  in  a  manner  to  relate  qualitatively  and  quantitatively  to 
exposure  assessments  for  human  populations  and  aquatic  biota. 

The  most  pressing  research  need  related  to  analytical  methods  is  to  validate  existing 
methods  for  the  detection  of  alcohol  oxygenates  other  than  TBA,  or  develop  new  cost-effective 
methods  for  these  alcohols.  In  addition,  development  of  low  cost,  simple  field  methods  for  ether 
oxygenates  would  be  useful.  Although  field  portable  GC/PID  and  GC/FID  methods  can  likely  be 
adapted  for  this  purpose,  supportive  research  would  be  helpful  for  facilitating  their  widespread 
use. 


6.  EXPOSURE 

6.1  Background 

Based  on  limited  monitoring  and  occurrence  data  (see  Section  5),  a  potential  for  exposure 
of  biota  and  human  populations  to  oxygenates  exists.  Exposure  implies  actual  contact  with  a 
contaminant,  not  just  the  existence  or  occurrence  of  the  substance  in  the  environment.  Exposure 


19 


characterization  requires  information  on  the  magnitude  and  distribution  of  exposures.  Among 
many  factors  that  can  affect  exposure  to  oxygenate-contaminated  water,  unpleasant  odor  and 
taste  have  been  reported  as  particularly  notable  in  the  case  of  MTBE  in  drinking  water 
(e.g.,  Angle,  1991).  However,  it  cannot  be  assumed  that  the  sensory  properties  of  oxygenates 
would  prevent  human  population  exposures  to  such  contaminants.  Individuals  vary  greatly  in 
sensory  and  subjective  reactions,  and  indeed,  anecdotal  evidence  indicates  that  some  individuals 
may  have  unknowingly  consumed  drinking  water  contaminated  with  MTBE  at  levels  exceeding 
35  pg/L  (Maine  Department  of  Human  Services,  Bureau  of  Health,  1998).  Also,  young  children 
could  be  exposed  via  infant  formula  and  beverages  prepared  with  oxygenate-contaminated  water. 
Even  if  all  human  exposures  to  oxygenates  could  be  averted  by  water  treatment  processes, 
exposure  of  biota  to  contaminated  surface  or  ground  water  could  still  occur. 

Taste  and  odor  detection  thresholds  for  MTBE  have  been  reported  ranging  from 
24  to  135  pg/L  for  taste  and  from  15  to  180  pg/L  for  odor  (Malcolm  Pirnie,  Incorporated,  1998b; 
Dale  et  al.,  1997;  Shen  et  al.,  1997;  Young  et  al.,  1996;  Prah  et  al.,  1994;  Vetrano,  1993a, b; 

TRC  Environmental  Corporation,  1993).  Limited  testing  suggests  taste  and  odor  thresholds  may 
be  somewhat  lower  for  ETBE  and  TAME  than  for  MTBE  (e.g.,  Shen  et  al.,  1997;  TRC 
Environmental  Corporation,  1993;  Vetrano,  1993a,b).  None  of  the  above  studies  attempted  to 
characterize  a  population  distribution  of  threshold  responses. 

It  is  important  to  note  that  detection  and  recognition  thresholds  for  taste  and  odor 
sensations  are  distinct  from  their  hedonic  properties,  which  involve  dimensions  such  as  the 
(un)pleasantness  and  intensity  of  the  sensory  experience.  The  detection  threshold  is  typically 
defined  as  the  concentration  at  which  a  subject  can  detect  a  taste  or  odor  difference  between  a 
standard  (e.g.,  “plain”  water)  and  the  diluted  test  substance  on  a  specified  percentage  (e.g.,  50%) 
of  the  trials.  The  recognition  threshold  is  the  concentration  at  which  a  subject  can  recognize  or 
identify  the  target  substance  in  the  diluent.  In  one  study  (Dale  et  al.,  1997),  four  panelists  were 
asked  to  describe  the  taste  and  odor  of  MTBE  in  odor-free  water  at  concentrations  ranging  from 
2  pg/L  to  190  pg/L.  At  concentrations  of  2  to  5  pg/L,  the  consensus  judgment  of  the  panelists 
was  that  the  taste  of  MTBE  could  be  described  as  “sweet.”  At  concentrations  of  21  to  190  pg/L, 
the  characterization  was  either  “solvent”  or  “sweet  solvent.”  Similar  characteristics  were 
attributed  to  the  odor  of  MTBE  at  concentrations  of  21  to  190  pg/L.  The  panelists  also  were 
asked  to  rate  the  intensity  of  the  taste  and  odor,  which  they  considered  “objectionable”  at  a 


20 


concentration  of  approximately  50  pg/L  for  taste  and  at  approximately  90  to  100  pg/L  for  odor. 
Note  that  these  tests  were  conducted  with  nonchlorinated,  odor-free  water  at  25  °C. 

Chlorination  would  likely  raise  the  thresholds  for  the  taste  and  odor  of  MTBE  in  water,  and 
higher  temperatures  (e.g.,  for  showering)  would  likely  lower  these  thresholds.  Also,  thresholds 
will  vary  with  instruction,  training,  motivation,  age,  gender,  and  other  variables  that  are  often  not 
controlled  for  or  reported. 

Hedonic  responses,  along  with  considerations  of  consumer  cost,  convenience,  and  other 
factors,  may  figure  importantly  in  the  levels  of  contamination  that  individuals  or  communities  will 
reject  or  accept  (and  consequently  be  exposed  to)  in  their  drinking  water.  Because  cognitive 
factors,  including  attitudes  that  may  be  shaped  by  information  provided  through  the  social  milieu, 
can  significantly  influence  sensory  perception  (Dalton,  1996),  populations  as  well  as  individuals 
may  vary  considerably  in  sensitivity  to,  and  tolerance  of,  odors  and  tastes,  such  that  a  given 
concentration  of  contaminant  might  be  quite  acceptable  to  a  large  majority  of  persons  in  one 
group  and  strongly  rejected  by  an  equal  proportion  in  another  (cf.  Anderson  et  al.,  1995). 

Microenvironmental  measurements  of  VOCs  such  as  benzene  and  trichloroethylene  in 
relation  to  household  water  usage  (e.g.,  Lindstrom  et  al.,  1994;  Wilkes  et  al.,  1996;  McKone  and 
Knezovich,  1991)  point  to  the  importance  of  considering  multi-media,  multi-route  personal 
exposures.  “Drinking  water”  is  used  in  many  ways  besides  direct  ingestion,  including  food 
preparation,  dish  washing,  laundering,  and  bathing.  In  particular,  showering  affords  a  significant 
exposure  potential  by  the  inhalation  and  dermal  routes,  with  variables  such  as  water  flow  rate  and 
temperature  influencing  exposure  levels  (Giardino  and  Andelman,  1996).  Although 
physicochemical  and  other  properties  of  oxygenates  differ  from  VOCs  investigated  thus  far,  the 
importance  of  microenvironmental  personal  exposures  to  contaminated  household  water  is 
relevant  to  oxygenates  as  well. 

Aquatic,  terrestrial,  and  marine  biota  are  subject  to  exposure  to  acute  and/or  chronic 
releases  of  fuels  and  fuel  additives.  However,  very  little  information  exists  to  characterize 
exposure  pathways  or  exposed  ecological  receptors  in  relation  to  oxygenates  (Carlsen  et  al., 
1997). 


21 


6.2  Needs 


Limited  empirical  information  is  available  either  on  the  overall  distribution  of  exposures  to 
oxygenates  in  water  for  the  U.S.  population  as  a  whole  or  on  “high-end”  exposure  scenarios 
where  oxygenate  contamination  is  already  known  to  occur.  One  step  toward  determining  the 
prevalence  and  level  of  potential  exposures  to  oxygenates  would  be  to  obtain  monitoring  data 
from  public  water  suppliers  (see  Section  5,  Occurrence).  However,  establishing  large-scale 
monitoring  programs  is  probably  not  the  most  efficient  means  for  characterizing  the  potential  for 
human  population  exposures  to  oxygenates.  Rather,  statistically  representative  sampling  of  public 
and  private  water  supplies,  including  wells,  may  afford  a  more  cost-effective  approach. 

By  coupling  such  data  with  qualitative  and  quantitative  data  on  water  usage  and  consumption 
patterns,  it  should  be  possible  to  model  human  exposures  to  specified  oxygenates  for  risk 
assessment  purposes  (cf.  Brown,  1997).  The  USGS  NAWQA  program  may  help  address  part  of 
this  need  through  a  stratified  statistical  sampling  of  wells  across  the  United  States.  Also,  the 
National  Health  and  Nutrition  Examination  Survey  (NHANES)  program  may  be  used  to  collect 
data  on  population  exposures  to  oxygenates  and  their  metabolites,  by  sampling  blood  and  drinking 
water  for  MTBE  and  TBA  levels.  Although  the  focus  of  this  document  is  water  contamination, 
exposure  to  oxygenates  must  ultimately  be  considered  in  terms  of  all  relevant  pathways  and 
routes,  including  inhalation,  ingestion,  and  dermal  contact. 

With  respect  to  locales  where  oxygenate  contamination  of  the  public  water  supply  has 
already  been  documented,  the  focus  should  be  on  evaluating  potential  personal  exposure  scenarios 
involving  all  household  uses  of  oxygenate-contaminated  water  (e.g.,  for  drinking,  food 
preparation,  cleaning,  bathing).  Several  studies  of  multi-route  VOC  exposures  through  showering 
and  other  uses  of  tap  water  (e.g.,  Weisel  and  Jo,  1996)  provide  a  substantial  foundation  for 
modeling  as  well  as  empirical  studies  of  oxygenate  exposure.  As  a  first  step,  modeling  of  personal 
exposures,  building  on  integrative  approaches  that  incorporate  macro-  and  micro-environmental 
pathways  and  even  pharmacokinetic  aspects  (e.g.,  Georgopoulos  et  al.,  1997;  Piver  et  al.,  1997; 
Rao  and  Ginsberg,  1997)  should  be  undertaken,  using  sensitivity  analyses  to  identify  areas  of 
needed  additional  data.  Although  a  substantial  database  already  exists  for  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
MTBE  by  inhalation  (e.g.,  Borghoff  et  al.,  1996),  additional  work  is  needed  to  supplement  the 
limited  pharmacokinetic  data  for  the  oral  and  dermal  routes.  Biomarkers  of  exposure 


22 


(e.g.,  metabolites  such  as  TBA)  might  warrant  investigation  if  exposures  prove  to  be  of  sufficient 
concern. 

More  extensive  data  on  odor  and  taste  thresholds  and  hedonic  responses  to  the  various 
oxygenates  are  needed  to  determine  whether  or  how  population  exposures  may  be  affected  by 
sensory  variables.  The  question  of  what  contaminant  levels  may  be  acceptable  to  different 
consumer  populations  is  not  an  exposure  assessment  issue  per  se,  but  more  data  on  thresholds  and 
hedonic  reactions  would  provide  a  stronger  basis  for  determining  consumer  acceptance  levels  and 
for  estimating  actual  usage  of  (and  thus  exposure  to)  oxygenate-contaminated  water. 


7.  AQUATIC  TOXICITY 

7.1  Background 

The  aquatic  toxicity  of  oxygenates  has  been  briefly  summarized  in  the  Interagency 
Assessment  of  Oxygenated  Fuels  (Interagency  Oxygenated  Fuels  Assessment  Steering 
Committee,  1997).  Some  basic  toxicity  data  exist  for  MTBE,  ETBE,  TAME,  DIPE,  ethanol,  and 
TBA  for  selected  aquatic  species  (e.g.,  Daphnia  magna,  Pimephales  promelas,  Carassius 
auratus).  However,  EPA  has  not  established  water  quality  criteria  for  oxygenates  for  the 
protection  of  freshwater  or  marine  aquatic  life.  Currently,  testing  is  underway  to  evaluate  the 
acute  and  chronic  toxicity  of  MTBE  to  aquatic  organisms  (Christensen  et  al.,  1998;  Mancini  et  al., 
1998).  Based  on  the  results  of  this  work  and  other  existing  data  (e.g.,  Huttenen  et  al.,  1997),  the 
EPA  Office  of  Water  expects  to  have  a  complete  data  set  available  for  deriving  water  quality 
criteria  for  MTBE  in  early  1999. 

7.2  Needs 

Current  actions  should  provide  an  appropriate  basis  for  determining  whether  additional 
effects  testing  or  research  is  needed. 


23 


8.  HEALTH  EFFECTS 


8.1  Background 

Most  of  the  testing  and  research  on  the  toxicity  of  oxygenates  has  been  concerned  with  the 
effects  of  inhaled  MTBE  in  laboratory  animals  and  human  volunteers.  Little  information  exists  on 
the  effects  of  ingested  oxygenates  on  humans,  with  the  notable  exception  of  the  extensive 
database  on  the  health  effects  of  ingested  ethanol.  However,  in  the  absence  of  any  evidence 
indicating  that  human  populations  are  exposed  to  ethanol-contaminated  drinking  water,  the  well 
characterized  health  effects  of  ingested  ethanol  need  not  be  considered  here. 

A  few  studies  have  examined  the  toxicity  of  MTBE  in  laboratory  animals  via  the  oral  route 
of  exposure  (Belpoggi  et  al.,  1995;  Robinson  et  al.,  1990;  IIT  Research  Institute,  1992; 
Bio-Research  Laboratories  Limited,  1990).  None  of  these  studies  used  drinking  water  as  a 
medium  for  administering  MTBE  to  animals;  rather,  they  typically  delivered  MTBE  mixed  in  olive 
oil  or  com  oil  in  a  bolus  dose  through  a  tube  into  the  stomach.  This  method  does  not  correspond 
very  well  to  the  way  that  drinking  water  is  typically  consumed  by  people.  Apart  from  such 
methodological  problems,  other  questions  have  been  raised  about  the  use  of  some  of  these  studies 
for  risk  assessment  purposes  (cf.  National  Research  Council,  1996;  Belpoggi  et  al.,  1998). 
Considerable  uncertainty  hampers  attempts  to  characterize  the  health  risks  related  to  MTBE  in 
drinking  water,  as  illustrated  by  the  absence  of  a  quantitative  health  risk  estimation  in  a  recent 
Drinking  Water  Advisory  on  MTBE  (U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  1997)  and  the 
somewhat  divergent  conclusions  reached  by  different  assessments  of  the  data  on  MTBE  toxicity 
(e.g.,  International  Agency  for  Research  on  Cancer,  1998;  Froines  et  al.,  1998;  California 
Environmental  Protection  Agency,  1998;  European  Centre  for  Ecotoxicology  and  Toxicology  of 
Chemicals,  1997;  Interagency  Oxygenated  Fuels  Assessment  Steering  Committee,  1997). 

Oral  toxicity  data  for  other  ethers  are  even  more  limited,  although  some  work  on  inhaled 
vapors  of  ETBE  and  TAME  is  currently  being  conducted  under  provisions  of  a  Toxic  Substances 
Control  Act  Enforceable  Consent  Agreement  (Federal  Register,  1995),  and  some  work  has  been 
published  on  the  kinetics  and  toxicity  of  inhaled  ETBE  (e.g.,  Hong  et  al.,  1997;  Johanson  et  al., 
1997;  Dorman  et  al.,  1997)  and  TAME  (e.g.,  Daughtrey  and  Bird,  1995).  TBA  is  of  relevance 
both  as  a  metabolite  of  MTBE  (Borghoff  et  al.,  1996)  and  as  an  oxygenate  or  oxygenate 
by-product.  Ingested  TBA  has  been  evaluated  in  rats  and  mice  in  a  chronic  bioassay  by  the 


24 


National  Toxicology  Program  (Cirvello  et  al.,  1995).  Long-term  exposure  to  TBA  in  drinking 
water  produced  various  toxicologic  and  carcinogenic  effects,  including  increased  incidences  of 
kidney  and  thyroid  tumors. 

8.2  Needs 

Given  the  limitations  of  information  on  the  oral  toxicity  of  MTBE  and  the  much  greater 
database  on  the  inhalation  toxicity  of  MTBE,  the  question  arises  as  to  whether  more  oral  toxicity 
studies  should  be  initiated,  or  should  inhalation  toxicity  data  be  extrapolated  to  estimate  oral 
toxicity  risk.  A  significant  effort  has  already  been  devoted  to  investigating  the  kinetic  behavior  of 
MTBE  in  rodents  with  the  goal  of  developing  a  physiologically  based  pharmacokinetic  (PBPK) 
model  to  describe  the  dosimetry  of  MTBE  and  TBA  in  rats  and  humans  (Borghoff  et  al.,  1996). 
This  ongoing  work  is  expected  to  yield  a  more  refined  quantitative  PBPK  model  in  the  near  term. 
In  addition,  a  pharmacokinetic  study  of  human  volunteers  exposed  to  MTBE  by  the  inhalation, 
oral,  and  dermal  routes  is  being  conducted  by  the  EPA  Office  of  Research  and  Development. 

As  the  results  of  these  studies  become  available,  it  is  anticipated  that  it  will  be  possible  to 
accurately  predict  levels  of  MTBE  and  TBA  in  rodent  and  human  target  organs  for  different 
routes  and  levels  of  exposure  to  MTBE.  Consequently,  it  should  be  feasible  to  use  inhalation 
toxicity  data  from  past  laboratory  animal  studies  (Bird  et  al.,  1997)  to  quantitatively  estimate  oral 
toxicity  risks  of  MTBE  in  humans.  Ultimately,  the  net  health  risks  from  multi-pathway  exposures 
to  MTBE  (e.g.,  via  refueling  and  motor  vehicle  use  as  well  as  drinking  water)  need  to  be  assessed. 

The  options  of  initiating  further  oral  toxicity  studies  or  of  using  PBPK  modeling  to 
extrapolate  from  inhalation  effects  to  oral  toxicity  risk  are  not  mutually  exclusive.  A  study  of 
subchronic  oral  exposure  to  MTBE  would  provide  better  data  on  the  potential  for  toxic  effects  as 
well  as  help  validate  a  PBPK  model  for  cross-route  extrapolation.  If  such  an  extrapolation  is 
unsuccessful,  then  a  new  chronic  bioassay  may  be  needed  to  reduce  the  uncertainties  in  assessing 
human  health  risks  from  chronic  exposure  to  MTBE  in  drinking  water. 

Questions  about  the  human  relevance  of  carcinogenic  effects  observed  in  laboratory  rodents 
exposed  to  high  concentrations  of  MTBE  also  need  to  be  resolved  if  uncertainties  in  current 
assessments  of  human  cancer  risk  are  to  be  reduced.  In  view  of  the  weight  necessarily  attached  to 
the  cancer  bioassays  on  MTBE,  it  would  be  desirable  to  reexamine  and  confirm  the  pathology 
data  from  all  of  these  studies.  Alternative  assays  for  carcinogenicity,  such  as  transgenic  mice 


25 


(Tennant  et  al.,  1995)  and  medaka  fish  (Boorman  et  al.,  1997)  assays,  may  offer  relatively  rapid 
approaches  for  collecting  additional  data  that  could  contribute  to  a  weight-of-evidence 
determination  as  well  as  insights  on  the  modes  of  action.  Although  the  latter  approaches  are 
unlikely  to  provide  dose-response  information  that  would  enhance  quantitative  potency  estimation 
(a  critical  need),  and  interpretation  of  negative  results  from  these  assays  could  be  problematic, 
they  could  provide  supporting  or  confirmative  evidence  of  certain  tumor  types  and  thus  assist  in 
interpreting  the  relevance  of  inhalation  effects  for  drinking  water  exposure. 

The  database  for  TB A  may  be  adequate  to  characterize  the  oral  toxicity  of  TB A.  Given  the 
potential  for  human  exposure  to  TBA  either  as  a  metabolite,  as  an  oxygenate  itself,  or  as  a  natural 
biodegradation  product  of  MTBE  in  ground  water,  an  assessment  of  the  carcinogenic  and 
noncarcinogenic  health  risks  of  TBA  should  be  undertaken. 

The  best  strategy  for  the  other  ethers  may  be  to  obtain  pharmacokinetic  data  (for  some, 
work  is  already  underway  or  anticipated  for  the  inhalation  route  [U.S.  Environmental  Protection 
Agency,  1998d])  and  take  such  information  into  account  in  designing  and  conducting  oral  toxicity 
testing  of  these  ethers.  This  strategy  is  predicated  on  low  usage  of  ethers  other  than  MTBE. 

If  occurrence  or  exposure  data  become  available  and  suggest  otherwise,  the  need  for  more 
intensive  investigation  of  the  pharmacokinetics  and  health  effects  of  other  ethers  may  be  elevated. 
As  for  degradation  products  of  oxygenates  (other  than  TBA),  more  information  on  the  occurrence 
and  concentrations  of  these  chemicals  is  needed  to  guide  decision-making  about  which  chemicals 
to  test. 


9.  RELEASE  PREVENTION 

9.1  Background 

Although  the  contribution  of  point  source  releases  to  the  problem  of  environmental 
contamination  from  fuel  oxygenates  cannot  be  quantitatively  characterized  at  present,  such 
releases  are  clearly  a  matter  of  risk  management  concern.  The  compatibility  of  fuel  storage  and 
distribution  system  components  with  the  fuel  they  contain  has  always  been  an  issue  for  system 
component  manufacturers,  petroleum  refiners  and  distributors,  and  regulators.  Federal 
regulations  (§280.32,  Code  of  Federal  Regulations,  1990)  require  that  UST  system  components 


26 


be  compatible  with  the  constituents  they  contain.  The  changing  composition  of  gasoline, 
particularly  with  the  addition  of  ethers  and  alcohols,  has  raised  the  question  of  whether  all  existing 
systems  are  compatible  with  newer  fuels  and  fuel  additives. 

Steel  tanks  and  piping  are  not  thought  to  be  significantly  corroded  by  oxygenates  (Douthit 
and  Davis,  1988;  Geyer,  1995),  but  the  effects  of  oxygenates  on  fiberglass  reinforced  plastic 
(FRP)  tanks  and  piping  have  been  less  clear.  Although  MTBE  and  other  fuel  ethers  have  been 
shown  not  to  cause  corrosion  of  FRP  (Douthit  et  al.,  1988;  Drake  et  ah,  1995),  manufacturers 
such  as  Owens-Coming  (Bartlow,  1995)  have  indicated  that  they  do  not  extend  their  30-year 
warranties  to  older  (pre-1984)  FRP  tanks  exposed  to  alcohols,  depending  on  the  type  and 
concentration  of  the  alcohol  used.  No  known  published  research  has  examined  older  tanks 
exposed  to  up  to  10%  ethanol. 

The  possibility  exists  that  some  UST  system  components,  such  as  FRP  tanks  and  piping  and 
flexible  piping,  may  be  permeable  to  MTBE  and  other  oxygenates.  Such  permeability  might 
account  for  cases  of  MTBE  contamination  at  gasoline  stations  where  no  leak  could  be  detected 
and  no  other  gasoline  constituents  were  found.  However,  some  doubt  exists  that  the  relatively 
large  molecular  weight  of  MTBE  would  allow  it  to  pass  through  FRP  (Curran,  1997).  The  only 
known  study  of  FRP  permeability  to  fuel  oxygenates  evaluated  gasoline  with  10  percent  ethanol 
and  found  no  liquid  gasoline  loss  after  31  days  (Smith  Fiberglass  Products  Inc.,  1996).  No  known 
work  has  been  conducted  on  FRP  permeability  to  any  other  oxygenate. 

Elastomer  seals,  used  for  gaskets  and  o-rings  throughout  UST  systems  and  petroleum 
pipelines,  may  have  compatibility  problems  with  oxygenated  fuels.  An  American  Petroleum 
Institute  (1994)  survey  indicated  that  petroleum  pipeline  and  terminal  managers  had  noticed 
significant  deterioration  of  many  different  types  of  elastomers  associated  with  fuel  oxygenates. 

The  study,  however,  did  not  discuss  the  specific  types  of  oxygenates  that  caused  specific 
problems,  nor  did  it  discuss  the  concentrations  of  the  oxygenates.  Many  of  the  problems  listed 
were  likely  caused  by  “neat”  (pure)  solutions  of  the  oxygenates,  but  the  study  raises  the  concern 
that  more  dilute  solutions  could  cause  problems  as  well. 

Another  study  (Alexander  et  al.,  1994)  tested  six  elastomers  in  various  concentrations  of 
MTBE,  ETBE,  TAME,  ethanol,  and  methanol.  The  authors  found  that  although  three  of  the  seals 
were  not  able  to  withstand  neat  MTBE,  all  of  the  seals  were  acceptable  for  use  in  solutions  of  all 
five  oxygenates  when  concentrations  were  less  than  20%  (immersed  for  168  hours  at  23  °C). 


27 


Hotaling  (1995)  tested  15  elastomers  at  46  °C  for  6  months  and  found  significant  deterioration  of 
three  types  of  elastomers  when  exposed  to  concentrations  of  only  5%  MTBE  in  gasoline.  As  a 
result,  Hotaling  found  that  these  seals  may  be  unsuitable  for  even  low  percentages  of  MTBE.” 
In  actual  use,  however,  EPA  is  not  aware  of  any  reports  of  UST  system  elastomers  failing  and 
causing  a  release  because  of  exposure  to  gasoline  containing  oxygenates. 

In  addition  to  liquid-phase  oxygenates,  compatibility  with  vapor  phase  oxygenates  also 
should  be  considered.  Because  the  vapor  pressure  of  MTBE  is  much  higher  than  many  other 
gasoline  constituents,  gasoline  vapors  should  theoretically  have  much  higher  concentrations  of 
MTBE  than  are  found  in  the  liquid  phase  (Davidson,  1998).  These  vapors  would  occur  in  the 
headspace  of  tanks  and  vapor  recovery  systems.  In  addition,  liquid-phase  MTBE-enriched 
condensate  could  form  inside  these  vapor  recovery  systems.  Hotaling  (1995)  tested  elastomers 
exposed  to  MTBE  vapors  and  found  significant  deterioration  to  some  elastomers  throughout  the 
concentration  ranges  tested  (5  to  100%). 

Dispenser  sumps,  used  to  catch  small  amounts  of  fuel  below  gasoline  dispensers,  are 
typically  made  of  high  density  polyethylene.  Although  these  sumps  should  be  checked 
periodically  to  remove  any  fuel,  it  is  possible  that  some  measurable  quantities  of  gasoline  and 
oxygenates  could  be  released  via  the  sumps.  Another  potential  concern  is  tank  liners.  These  are 
plastic  tanks  within  tanks,  typically  used  inside  steel  tanks  that  may  have  started  to  corrode,  and 
are  used  to  avoid  replacing  the  original  tank.  Certain  liner  materials  may  not  be  compatible  with 
oxygenated  fuels  (Meli,  1 996). 

Some  information  suggests  that  leak  detection  systems  may  not  be  mitigating  UST  releases 
as  much  as  might  be  desired.  In  a  survey  of  UST  leak  cases  in  California  (Farahnak  and  Drewry, 
1997),  263  (84%)  of  313  cases  were  discovered  in  the  course  of  tank  closure  activities;  15  (<5%) 
of  the  cases  were  identified  through  leak  detection  methods.  For  132  cases  with  available 
monitoring  data,  the  average  lag  between  the  date  of  last  monitoring  and  discovery  of  a  leak  was 
29  months.  No  information  was  provided  regarding  the  presence  of  oxygenates  in  the  survey. 
Although  the  survey  did  not  resolve  whether  problems  were  due  to  the  systems,  misuse  or  a  lack 
of  use  of  them,  or  a  combination  of  these  factors,  the  report  highlights  the  importance  of  leak 
detection  issues,  which  in  turn  are  clearly  relevant  to  addressing  oxygenated  fuel  releases. 


28 


9.2  Needs 


The  issue  of  materials  compatibility  with  oxygenated  fuels  may  prove  to  be  quite 
manageable.  However,  a  number  of  unanswered  questions  need  to  be  resolved  to  ensure  that 
releases  do  not  and  will  not  occur.  It  is  important  to  characterize  fully  the  effects  of  ethers  and 
alcohols  on  elastomers,  FRP,  and  other  components  of  pipelines  and  tanks,  particularly  after 
several  years  of  aging.  The  potential  for  leakage  is  unknown  for  older  (pre-1984)  FRP  tanks  that 
may  be  exposed  to  high  (e.g.,  10%)  concentrations  of  ethanol.  Also,  the  possible  permeability  of 
MTBE  through  FRP  tanks  and  piping  or  flexible  piping  cannot  be  ruled  out  with  existing  data. 
Additional  research  is  needed  to  resolve  contradictory  findings  on  the  compatibility  of  elastomer 
seals  with  MTBE.  Vapor  recovery  systems  need  to  be  examined  more  closely  in  terms  of 
compatibility  with  concentrated  MTBE  vapor.  Dispenser  sumps  need  to  be  evaluated  to 
determine  if  they  are  a  potentially  significant  source  of  releases.  Independent  research  is  needed 
on  the  compatibility  of  currently  marketed  tank  liners  with  ethanol. 

Although  newer  technologies  and  regulations  are  intended  to  reduce  the  problem  of  leaking 
UST  systems  for  conventional  fuels,  the  different  chemical  properties  of  the  various  oxygenated 
fuels  raise  questions  not  only  about  the  compatibility  of  existing  systems  but  also  about  leak 
detection  methodologies.  Even  though  the  differences  in  the  physicochemical  properties  of 
oxygenated  and  non-oxygenated  fuels  may  be  small,  modest  research  efforts  may  be  required  to 
reevaluate  and  confirm  the  performance  and  accuracy  of  in-tank  and  external  leak  detection  and 
monitoring  technologies. 

Based  upon  the  results  of  the  above  studies,  new  and  improved  approaches  and  technologies 
could  be  developed  to  repair  or  replace  problem  areas  and  to  prevent  future  problems  through  the 
use  of  more  advanced  materials  and  design  concepts. 


10.  CONTAMINANT  REMOVAL 

10.1  Background 

Various  methods  are  available  for  removing  contaminants  from  soils,  ground  water,  waste 
water,  and  drinking  water.  Many  of  these  techniques  are  potentially  applicable  to  contamination 
from  oxygenates.  However,  very  limited  information  exists  on  the  technical  feasibility  and  costs 


29 


of  implementing  them  for  oxygenate  removal  under  field-scale  operating  conditions. 

The  following  background  discussion  is  not  meant  to  differentiate  these  processes  in  their 
applications,  but  rather  to  address  their  general  efficiency  for  soils  or  waters  contaminated  with 
MTBE  or  other  oxygenates.  The  discussion  also  notes  those  technologies  that  may  be 
appropriate  for  in  situ  subsurface  remediation,  those  that  may  be  more  applicable  to  above  ground 
treatment  of  contaminated  ground  water,  and  those  that  may  be  more  suitable  for  drinking  water 
treatment  at  the  wellhead  or  in  a  drinking  water  treatment  plant. 

Water  treatment  to  remove  MTBE  and  other  oxygenates  will  frequently  be  conducted  as 
part  of  an  overall  treatment  process  to  remove  other  contaminants  such  as  benzene. 

Consequently,  it  is  worthwhile  to  ask  if  an  ongoing  treatment  process  also  will  be  effective  for 
oxygenate  removal.  However,  because  oxygenates  have  different  physical  and  chemical 
properties,  a  technology  suitable  for  one  oxygenate  may  not  be  suitable  for  another. 

Subsurface  treatment  methods  are  often  classified  as  those  that  transform,  immobilize,  or  fix 
the  contaminants  in  situ,  and  those  that  extract  the  contaminant  from  the  subsurface  for  ex  situ 
treatment  on  the  surface.  Both  types  are  potentially  applicable  to  MTBE  and  other  oxygenates. 

In  situ  biological  treatment  is  known  to  be  effective  for  the  BTEX  component  of  fuels,  but  its 
effectiveness  for  oxygenates  is  subject  to  debate.  The  feasibility  of  an  in  situ  bioremediation 
process  depends  on  many  factors,  including  the  biodegradation  rate,  the  redox  conditions,  and  the 
presence  of  other  contaminants.  Information  is  very  limited  on  the  field  application  of  in  situ 
bioremediation  to  oxygenates  either  as  part  of  an  active  treatment  process  or  for  natural 
attenuation. 

Soil  vapor  extraction  (SVE)  is  commonly  used  to  remove  gasoline  contaminants  from  the 
unsaturated  zone  at  spill  sites.  Based  on  its  high  vapor  pressure  and  low  affinity  for  organic 
carbon  in  soil,  MTBE  would  be  expected  to  be  readily  removed  from  soil  by  vapor  extraction. 

A  computer  model,  VENT2D,  has  been  used  to  simulate  this  process  for  a  gasoline-MTBE 
mixture  (Conrad  and  Deever,  1995).  In  this  simulation,  MTBE  showed  the  highest  rate  of  mass 
loss  of  five  gasoline  components,  as  would  be  predicted  based  on  their  relative  vapor  pressures. 
Hence,  MTBE  and  other  ethers  with  high  vapor  pressures  are  not  expected  to  be  problematic  for 
this  technology.  Grady  and  Johnson  (1995)  empirically  demonstrated  that  SVE  was  successful  in 
recovering  MTBE,  and  as  expected,  the  recovery  of  MTBE  was  greater  than  the  recoveries  for 
BTEX  compounds. 


30 


Low-temperature  thermal  desorption  (LTTD)  is  an  ex  situ  soil  treatment  technology  that 
uses  temperatures  below  ignition  levels  to  separate  volatile  contaminants  from  soil.  Due  to  the 
high  vapor  pressure  of  MTBE,  LTTD  should  be  very  effective  in  removing  MTBE  from  soil. 
However,  because  MTBE  separates  from  gasoline  and  dissolves  quickly  in  water,  both  SVE  and 
LTTD  must  be  used  soon  after  a  release;  otherwise  most  of  the  MTBE  may  have  already  moved 
from  the  soil  into  the  ground  water. 

Air  sparging  involves  the  injection  of  air  below  the  water  table.  The  mechanisms  for 
removal  are  stripping  and  potentially  oxygen-enhanced  biodegradation.  Bass  (1996)  found  that 
air  sparging  removed  MTBE  from  ground  water,  with  down-gradient  wells  showing  99%  removal 
of  MTBE.  Levels  continued  to  decline  for  13  months  after  the  air  sparging  unit  was  shut  off, 
presumably  due  to  aerobic  degradation.  Similar  results  also  were  reported  by  Cho  et  al.  (1997). 

Because  MTBE  does  not  adsorb  well  to  soil  and  is  highly  soluble  in  water,  “pump  and  treat” 
technology  (i.e.,  pumping  contaminated  ground  water  and  treating  it  above  ground)  may  be 
effective  in  conjunction  with  certain  above-ground  biological  or  physical/chemical 
contaminant-removal  processes.  Conditions  such  as  the  presence  of  complex  hydrogeology  that 
create  “dead”  zones  that  are  isolated  from  zones  of  high  hydraulic  conductivity  will  reduce  the 
effectiveness  of  pump  and  treat  for  MTBE,  despite  its  favorable  chemical  and  physical 
characteristics. 

Studies  have  indicated  that  MTBE  can  biodegrade  in  ex  situ  biological  treatment  systems 
under  aerobic  and  anaerobic  conditions  (see  Section  4,  Transformation).  Once  the  conditions  for 
biodegradation  of  oxygenates  are  fully  defined,  field  work  can  be  completed  to  determine  the 
practicality  of  ex  situ  biological  treatment  for  oxygenates  removal. 

Granular  activated  carbon  (GAC)  adsorption  is  a  frequently  used  treatment  process  for 
organic  contaminants.  However,  because  of  its  limited  adsorption  capacity  for  MTBE,  GAC  is 
generally  not  cost  effective  for  removing  MTBE  (Speth  and  Miltner,  1990).  Therefore,  it  is  not 
expected  that  adsorption  would  be  generally  used  for  removing  MTBE  on  a  large  scale.  This  is 
especially  true  at  high  influent  concentrations  that  would  limit  the  time  that  a  GAC  column  could 
be  effective.  For  public  water  supplies,  field  studies  have  shown  that  carbon  adsorption  is  not 
cost  effective  for  MTBE  removal  unless  the  concentrations  are  very  low  (McKinnon  and  Dyksen, 
1984).  For  example,  even  with  an  influent  concentration  of  30  pg/L,  the  carbon  beds  need  to  be 
regenerated  frequently.  Other  ether  oxygenates  have  slightly  lower  solubilities  than  MTBE  and 


31 


thus  would  be  more  effectively  adsorbed.  However,  alcohol  oxygenates  such  as  ethanol  and  TBA 
are  infinitely  soluble,  and  thus  adsorption  would  be  ineffective  for  these  compounds.  Carbon 
adsorption  may  be  useful  as  a  polishing  step  to  air  stripping. 

Malley  et  al.  (1993)  have  shown  that  MTBE  adsorbs  more  strongly  to  synthetic  adsorbents 
than  to  GAC.  Because  the  capital  cost  of  the  synthetic  adsorbents  was  much  higher  than  that  of 
GAC,  the  authors  concluded  that  synthetic  adsorbent  removal  of  MTBE  was  not  economically 
feasible.  However,  synthetic  adsorbents  could  be  economically  feasible  for  oxygenate  removal  if 
an  inexpensive  in  situ  regeneration  process  such  as  steam  could  be  used  (Malley  et  al.,  1993). 

For  volatile  organic  compounds,  air  stripping  is  a  cost  effective  alternative.  However,  the 
Henry’s  Law  constant  for  MTBE  is  low  (see  Appendix  1),  indicating  a  relatively  low  efficiency 
for  air  stripping.  Air  stripping  at  a  very  high  air-to-water  ratio  (e.g.,  200:1)  has  been  found 
effective  in  removing  93  to  99%  of  MTBE  from  ground  water  (McKinnon  and  Dyksen,  1 984; 
American  Petroleum  Institute,  1990),  but  at  air-to-water  ratios  of  44:1,  75:1,  and  125:1  the 
percentage  of  MTBE  removed  was  44,  51,  and  61%,  respectively  (McKinnon  and  Dyksen,  1984). 
By  comparison,  an  effective  air-to-water  ratio  for  benzene  is  typically  near  50:1.  High  air-to- 
water  ratios  can  lead  to  severe  operating  problems  such  as  scaling  and  freezing  during  cold 
weather  operations.  McKinnon  and  Dyksen  (1984)  found  that  the  cost  of  air  stripping  treatment 
was  approximately  55%  of  that  for  carbon  treatment.  However,  the  off  gas  of  the  air  stripping 
unit  was  not  treated.  Treating  the  off-gas  stream  would  approximately  double  the  cost  of  the  air 
stripping  system.  Air  stripping  followed  by  GAC  adsorption  was  found  to  be  very  effective  for 
MTBE  removal  in  this  study,  as  also  was  found  by  Truong  and  Parmele  (1992).  Other 
oxygenates  such  as  ETBE,  TAME,  and  DIPE  have  higher  Henry’s  Law  constants  than  MTBE 
(approximately  3  to  20  times  higher),  indicating  that  air  stripping  would  be  at  least  slightly  more 
effective  for  them.  For  example,  in  the  study  by  McKinnon  and  Dyksen  (1984)  the  percentage 
removal  of  DIPE  at  an  air-to-water  ratio  of  200:1  was  greater  than  99%  (McKinnon  and  Dyksen, 
1984).  However,  alcohol  oxygenates  have  very  low  Henry’s  Law  constants,  indicating  that  air 
stripping  would  not  be  effective  for  these  compounds. 

Yeh  (1992)  found  that  hydrogen  peroxide  in  the  presence  of  iron  (Fenton’s  reaction) 
degraded  ETBE  and  MTBE.  This  was  later  confirmed  under  laboratory  conditions  by  Chen  et  al. 
(1998)  and  other  researchers.  Therefore,  the  hydroxyl  radicals  produced  by  Fenton’s  reaction 
appear  to  be  an  effective  treatment  agent.  Ozone/ultraviolet  (UV),  ozone/peroxide,  UV/peroxide, 


32 


and  ozone/sonication  also  have  potential  as  treatment  technologies  for  oxygenate  destruction. 

The  American  Petroleum  Institute  (1991)  reported  that  advanced  oxidation  is  more  cost  effective 
than  other  zero  emission  technologies  such  as  steam  stripping,  ex  situ  biological  oxidation,  and  air 
stripping  with  off-gas  control.  Malcolm  Pimie  Incorporated  (1997)  also  concluded  that  advanced 
oxidation  is  more  cost-effective  than  carbon  adsorption  or  air  stripping  with  off-gas  control. 
Malley  et  al.  (1993)  reported  over  95%  removal  of  MTBE  using  UV/peroxide.  Oxidation 
byproducts  included  methanol,  formaldehyde,  and  1,1-dimethylethyl  formate.  Using  UV/peroxide 
with  a  highly  contaminated  ground  water  produced  less  removal  (up  to  83%)  presumably  due  to 
the  effects  of  alkalinity  scavenging  of  hydroxyl  radicals  and  competition  from  other  organics 
(Malley  et  al.,  1993).  The  American  Petroleum  Institute  (1997)  reported  up  to  98%  removal  of 
MTBE  in  a  UV/peroxide  reactor  under  various  conditions.  Diisopropyl  ether  had  higher  removal 
rates  than  MTBE,  indicating  that  DIPE  is  more  easily  destroyed  by  hydroxyl  radicals  than  MTBE. 
Compared  to  benzene,  MTBE  is  only  moderately  reactive,  with  reaction  rate  constants  seven 
times  lower  than  that  for  benzene.  Kang  and  Hoffmann  (1998)  found  that  the  combination  of 
ozonation  and  sonication  can  effectively  degrade  MTBE  into  tert-butyl  formate,  TBA,  methyl 
acetate,  and  acetone.  Leitner  et  al.  (1994)  found  that  ozone/hydrogen  peroxide  treatment  could 
eliminate  ETBE  and  MTBE,  with  ETBE  more  reactive  than  MTBE.  The  ozonation  byproducts 
were  tertiary  butyl  formate,  tertiary  butyl  acetate,  and  TBA. 

Because  advanced  oxidation  systems  increase  the  biodegradability  of  the  organic  matter  in 
the  water,  biofiltration  may  be  recommended  following  oxidation  to  control  for  biogrowth  in 
drinking-water  distribution  systems.  The  result  could  be  an  effective  two-stage  process:  abiotic 
oxidation  followed  by  aerobic  biodegradation  of  the  oxygenates. 

10.2  Needs 

Numerous  areas  of  contaminant-removal  research  are  needed  for  MTBE  and  other 
oxygenates.  Because  remediation  and  drinking  water  sites  often  differ  with  regard  to  contaminant 
concentration,  clean-up  goals,  secondary -effect  issues  such  as  biological  regrowth  and  corrosion, 
and  public  acceptability,  this  section  is  separated  into  remediation  and  drinking-water  subsections. 
For  both  subsections,  comparative  cost  estimates  for  all  technologies  are  needed. 

The  research  needs  for  the  removal  of  oxygenates  from  waste  water  are  not  discussed 
separately  here.  Although  waste  waters  typically  contain  higher  levels  of  background  organics 


33 


and  inorganics  that  might  interfere  with  the  removal  of  oxygenates,  it  is  not  clear  that  oxygenate 
contamination  of  waste  water  is  a  widespread  occurrence.  To  the  extent  that  biological 
treatments  (e.g.,  activated  sludge,  trickling  filters)  that  are  commonly  practiced  for  wastewater 
streams  may  be  effective  in  removing  oxygenates  by  virtue  of  the  biodegradation  and  stripping 
mechanisms  within  these  technologies,  many  of  the  research  needs  discussed  below  will  be 
pertinent  to  the  removal  of  oxygenates  from  waste  water.  This  is  especially  true  of  biological 
degradation,  extensively  covered  in  Section  4  (Transformation). 

10.2.1  Remediation  Needs 

Remediation  research  is  needed  for  both  in  situ  remediation  and  ex  situ  cleanup  of  extracted 
ground  water.  This  research  should  build  on  and  expand  earlier  and  ongoing  work  on  remediation 
of  ground  water  contaminated  by  other  organic  compounds.  Research  is  likely  to  be  most 
productive  if  it  focuses  initially  on  evaluating  the  applicability  of  known  remediation  technologies 
and  adapting  them  to  remediation  of  MTBE  and  other  oxygenates.  Cost  as  well  as  technical 
feasibility  should  be  examined. 

There  is  a  pressing  need  for  data  on  biodegradation  (see  Section  4,  Transformation). 

Optimal  conditions  for  biodegradation  processes  for  in  situ  and  ex  situ  contaminant  removal  need 
to  be  determined.  This  information  is  needed  both  to  develop  enhanced  bioremediation 
technologies  and  to  better  understand  the  applicability  of  natural  attenuation  and  risk  based 
corrective  action  at  UST  sites  with  oxygenate  contamination.  A  particular  focus  should  be  on  the 
introduction  of  oxygen  and  nutrients  for  in  situ  plume  treatment  and  the  potential  for  abiotic 
oxidation  and  aerobic  biodegradation  in  porous-reactor  barriers.  Data  are  needed  from  field 
research  and  supporting  laboratory  studies  under  a  variety  of  conditions,  including  different 
geochemical  conditions,  presence  of  other  contaminants,  and  oxygenate  concentrations. 
Information  gathered  from  research  regarding  optimal  biological  conditions  for  oxygenate 
removal  may  lead  to  cost-effective  remediation  processes.  Research  on  in  situ  abiotic  oxidation  is 
a  lower  priority. 

Extraction  processes,  including  pump  and  treat,  SVE,  LTTD,  in-well  stripping,  dual-phase 
extraction,  and  air  sparging,  need  to  be  further  evaluated.  Specifically,  the  optimal  operating 
conditions,  effectiveness,  and  costs  of  these  processes  should  be  investigated  for  MTBE  and  other 
oxygenates.  Also,  off-gas  control  for  SVE,  air  sparging,  in-well  extraction,  and  LTTD  need  to  be 


34 


addressed  when  appropriate.  Finally,  the  effect  of  temperature  on  Henry’s  Law  constants  for  the 
entire  class  of  oxygenates  should  be  studied. 

There  is  a  particular  need  for  research  to  develop  and  evaluate  both  biotic  and  abiotic 
surface  treatment  systems  for  extracted  ground  water.  Air  stripping  is  known  to  work,  but  many 
locations  may  require  off-gas  treatment.  Research  is  needed  to  determine  the  effectiveness  and 
cost  of  off-gas  control.  Promising  research  on  bioreactors  should  be  continued.  For  ex  situ 
abiotic  oxidation,  Fenton’s  reagent,  ozone/UV,  ozone/peroxide,  UV/peroxide,  and 
ozone/sonication  need  to  be  further  evaluated  in  terms  of  efficiency  and  cost  under  a  variety  of 
operating  conditions.  By-products  of  oxygenate  degradation  should  be  identified  under  different 
conditions.  By-product  destruction  also  may  need  to  be  evaluated.  These  oxidative  processes 
should  be  optimized  so  that  a  site  demonstration  can  be  conducted  to  determine  their  cost 
effectiveness.  GAC  is  not  likely  to  be  cost  effective  as  an  ex  situ  treatment  process  for  MTBE  in 
water  but  may  have  applicability  to  situations  with  low  flow  and  low  concentrations. 

Sorbents  such  as  vermiculite,  straw,  and  peat  have  been  proposed  for  oxygenate  removal. 
Although  their  low  cost  may  offset  their  low  adsorption  capacities,  this  is  a  low  priority  research 
area  and  should  be  limited  to  gathering  and  evaluating  existing  information  at  this  time. 

10.2.2  Drinking-Water  Treatment  Needs 

Drinking-water  treatment  research  needs  to  focus  on  low  concentrations  of  contaminants 
typically  found  in  source  waters.  Consideration  should  be  given  to  the  scale  of  water  treatment; 
from  large  drinking  water  plants  that  treat  hundreds  of  millions  of  liters  a  day  to  point-of-use 
systems  that  treat  liters  per  day.  Two  technologies  that  should  be  investigated  first  include  air 
stripping  and  hydroxyl-radical  processes.  For  air-stripping,  a  matrix  of  the  effectiveness  and  cost 
needs  to  be  completed  for  various  conditions  (e.g.,  with  and  without  off-gas  control),  which 
would  allow  more  direct  comparison  to  other  treatment  technologies.  Also,  configurations  other 
than  packed-tower  aerators  should  be  evaluated.  Finally,  the  effect  of  temperature  on  Henry’s 
Law  constants  for  the  entire  class  of  oxygenates  needs  to  be  thoroughly  studied  so  as  to  aid  in  the 
design  and  evaluation  of  heated  air  stripping  and  steam  stripping  systems. 

For  abiotic  oxidation  processes,  a  hydroxyl  radical  treatment,  Fenton’s  reagent,  has  been 
shown  to  be  effective  for  MTBE.  Because  of  secondary  effects,  it  is  unlikely  that  Fenton’s 
reagent  would  be  used  in  a  drinking  water  facility.  However,  other  hydroxyl  radical  processes 


35 


that  utilities  have  experience  with,  such  as  ozone/peroxide,  ozone/UV,  and  peroxide/UV,  need  to 
be  more  extensively  evaluated.  Also,  the  applicability  of  the  ozone/sonication  process  for 
drinking  water  treatment  needs  to  be  evaluated,  including  evaluation  of  UV  lamp  technologies. 
Oxidation  byproducts,  including  bromate,  should  be  identified  and  quantified  under  different 
conditions  and  byproduct  destruction  also  may  need  to  be  evaluated.  These  oxidative  processes 
need  to  be  optimized  so  that  a  site  demonstration  can  be  conducted  to  determine  their  relative 
cost  effectiveness. 

Also,  as  previously  mentioned,  oxidation  processes  have  been  shown  to  increase  the 
biodegradability  of  natural  organics  in  water.  Therefore,  biofilters  may  be  used  in  drinking  water 
facilities  to  control  distribution-system  regrowth.  The  removal  of  oxygenates  and  oxygenate 
degradates  or  byproducts  in  these  biofilters  should  be  studied.  Limited  data  exist  for 
biodegradation  under  drinking-water  conditions,  but  the  increase  in  biodegradability  of  natural 
organics  due  to  hydroxyl-radical  treatment  potentially  holds  promise  for  the  removal  of 
oxygenates  and  their  degradates  as  a  secondary  substrate,  even  at  low  concentrations.  Drinking 
water  biodegradation  work  must  concentrate  on  removing  low  levels  of  oxygenates. 

Other  biofiltration  processes  that  utilize  the  addition  of  primary  substrates  should  not  be 
conducted  under  the  auspices  of  drinking  water  treatment  research.  Primary  substrates  added  to 
drinking  water  treatment  streams  are  potentially  problematic  for  several  reasons:  the  primary 
substrate  could  contribute  to  deleterious  human  health  effects;  the  primary  substrate  or  its 
degradation  byproducts  might  serve  as  disinfection  byproduct  precursor  material;  biogrowth 
might  occur  in  the  distribution  system;  and  public  dissatisfaction  might  result  for  these  and  other 
reasons. 

Other  drinking-water  contaminant  removal  processes  that  need  to  be  evaluated  include 
GAC,  carbonaceous  adsorbents,  and  new  bioreactor  membrane  technologies.  For  GAC,  work 
needs  to  be  completed  in  developing  a  matrix  of  the  effectiveness  and  cost  under  various 
conditions.  Because  of  its  expected  poor  removal  of  oxygenates,  GAC  should  be  evaluated  as  a 
polishing  step  for  air  stripping  technologies  or  as  a  biologically -active  filter.  Desorption  from 
GAC  also  should  be  studied. 

Synthetic  carbonaceous  adsorbents  are  very  effective  in  removing  many  types  of  organic 
compounds  from  water.  In  general,  steam  is  very  effective  for  reversing  adsorption  processes  for 


36 


weakly  adsorbing  contaminants  such  as  MTBE.  Therefore,  a  study  of  an  automated  system  that 
would  adsorb  oxygenates  then  desorb  (regenerate)  under  steam  conditions  should  be  initiated. 

An  automated  reverse  osmosis  system  may  be  applicable  for  small  utilities  (under 
500,000  gal/day).  However,  the  potential  for  success  for  reverse  osmosis  is  limited  due  to  the 
low  molecular  weights  (32  to  102  Daltons)  of  most  oxygenates,  and  thus  only  a  quick,  low-cost 
evaluation  of  this  process  is  warranted.  Other  membrane  devices  such  as  carbon-fiber  bioreactor 
membranes  may  be  more  effective;  however,  preliminary  information  is  needed  before  extensive 
research  is  conducted. 


11.  CONCLUSIONS 

The  following  priorities  emerge  from  the  foregoing  discussion.  No  attempt  is  made  to  rank 
these  needs  relative  to  each  other  because  they  are  all  critical  and  are  independent  of  each  other  in 
certain  respects.  For  example,  even  though  more  information  on  biodegradation  would  assist  in 
the  development  of  contaminant  removal  methods,  it  does  not  follow  that  needed  work  on 
contaminant  removal  methods  should  be  deferred  to  biodegradation  studies.  It  is  reasonable  to 
expect  that  efforts  can  proceed  concurrently  in  each  of  the  areas  identified  here.  It  is  also 
recognized  that  different  organizations  may  rank  priorities  differently,  depending  on  their  mission, 
mandates,  programmatic  objectives,  funding  constraints,  and  other  factors.  For  this  reason, 
priority  ranking  of  the  following  needs  may  vary  among  organizations,  but  all  of  them  are  valid 
and  important.  Therefore,  each  of  the  following  needs  should  be  given  priority  consideration. 

•  Determination  of  the  relative  contributions  of  point  and  non-point  sources  of  oxygenate  fluxes 
to  surface  and  ground  waters. 

•  Determination  of  oxygenate  biodegradation  rates  and  pathways  under  representative 
geochemical  conditions,  and  identification  of  degradation  by-products  and  their  environmental 
fate. 

•  Inclusion  of  oxygenate  analytes  and  principal  suspected  transformation  products  wherever  VOC 
monitoring  of  water  is  routinely  performed. 

•  Statistically  representative  sampling  of  public  and  private  water  supplies  and  modeling  of 
multi-media,  multi-pathway  personal  exposures  for  estimating  population  distributions  of 


37 


exposures;  modeling  and  empirical  studies  of  “high-end”  microenvironmental  exposure 
scenarios. 

•  Completion  of  PBPK  modeling  and  cancer  mechanistic  studies  to  enhance  confidence  in 
extrapolating  from  laboratory  animal  inhalation  toxicity  data  as  a  basis  for  estimating  oral 
toxicity  risk  of  MTBE  for  humans;  subchronic  oral  toxicity  study  of  MTBE  in  drinking  water. 

•  More  extensive  evaluation  of  oxygenate  effects  on  materials  used  in  tanks  and  pipelines, 
especially  after  aging  over  a  period  of  years. 

•  Evaluation  of  the  relative  cost-effectiveness  of  candidate  technologies  for  removing  oxygenate 
contaminants  from  water  under  various  conditions,  with  iterative  efforts  to  optimize  the  most 
promising  technologies,  develop  new  innovative  approaches,  and  evaluate  the  comparative  cost 
effectiveness  of  available  technologies. 

•  Updating  of  risk  characterizations  as  results  of  the  above  work  become  available. 

Efforts  to  address  the  issues  identified  in  this  document  have  been  underway  for  some  time, 
and  new  efforts  are  continually  being  initiated.  Consequently,  it  is  very  difficult  to  describe  the 
current  state  of  the  science  in  an  accurate,  up-to-date  manner.  Appendix  2  contains  a  listing  of 
current  projects  related  to  oxygenates  in  water.  The  descriptions  of  projects  are  not  adequate  to 
convey  the  extent  of  work  being  undertaken;  the  intent  is  to  provide  an  impression  of  the  scope  of 
studies  underway  and  information  to  assist  readers  if  they  wish  to  obtain  more  details  about  any 
particular  project. 

The  purpose  of  conducting  the  work  identified  in  this  document  is  to  provide  a  better  basis 
for  characterizing  the  potential  health  and  environmental  risks  of  oxygenates  and  for  informing 
risk  management  and  policy  decision  making.  Risk  assessment  and  risk  management  efforts 
directed  at  oxygenates  in  water  have  been  occurring  and  will  likely  continue.  If  the  environment 
and  public  health  are  to  be  protected  effectively  and  efficiently,  however,  adequate  scientific 
information  and  technical  data  are  essential. 


38 


REFERENCES 


Alexander,  J.  E.;  Ferber,  E.  P.;  Stahl,  W.  M.  (1994)  Avoid  leaks  from  reformulated  fuels:  choose  an  elastomeric 
sealing  material  according  to  the  type  and  concentration  of  oxygenate  (ether  and/or  alcohol)  added  to  the 
fuel.  Fuel  Reformulation  4(Mar/Apr):  42-46. 

American  Petroleum  Institute.  (1990)  A  compilation  of  field-collected  cost  and  treatment  effectiveness  data  for  the 
removal  of  dissolved  gasoline  components  from  groundwater.  Washington,  DC:  American  Petroleum 
Institute;  API  publication  4525. 

American  Petroleum  Institute.  (1991)  Cost-effective,  alternative  treatment  technologies  for  reducing  the 

concentrations  of  methyl  tertiary  butyl  ether  and  methanol  in  groundwater.  Washington,  DC:  American 
Petroleum  Institute;  API  publication  4497. 

American  Petroleum  Institute.  (1994)  Effects  of  oxygenated  fuels  and  reformulated  diesel  fuels  on  elastomers  and 
polymers  in  pipeline/terminal  components.  Washington,  DC:  American  Petroleum  Institute;  API  publication 
1132. 

American  Petroleum  Institute.  (1997)  Field  evaluation  of  biological  and  nonbiological  treatment  technologies  to 
remove  MTBE/oxygenates  from  petroleum  product  terminal  wastewaters.  Washington,  DC:  American 
Petroleum  Institute;  API  publication  4655. 

Anderson,  H.  A.;  Hanrahan,  L.;  Goldring,  J.;  Delaney,  B.  (1995)  An  investigation  of  health  concerns  attributed  to 
reformulated  gasoline  use  in  southeastern  Wisconsin:  phase  1,  random  digit  dial  telephone  survey,  final 
report.  Madison,  WI:  Wisconsin  Department  of  Health  and  Social  Services,  Division  of  Health,  Bureau  of 
Public  Health;  May  30. 

Angle,  C.  R.  (1991)  If  the  tap  water  smells  foul,  think  MTBE  [letter].  JAMA  J.  Am.  Med.  Assoc.  266:  2985-2986. 

Baehr,  A.  L.;  Ayers,  M.  A.  (1997)  Occurrence  and  movement  of  contaminants  through  the  urban  hydrologic 
cycle — FY97  workplan  update  [for  NAWQA  Comprehensive  Urban  Study].  West  Trenton,  NJ:  U.S. 
Geological  Survey,  Long  Island-New  Jersey  National  Water-Quality  Assessment  Program;  February  1. 

Baehr,  A.  L.;  Stackelberg,  P.  E.;  Baker,  R.  J.;  Kauffman,  L.  J.;  Hopple,  J.  A;  Ayers,  M.  A.  (1997)  Design  of  a 

sampling  network  to  determine  the  occurrence  and  movement  of  methyl  tert-butyl  ether  and  other  organic 
compounds  through  the  urban  hydrologic  cycle.  In:  American  Chemical  Society  Division  of  Environmental 
Chemistry  preprints  of  papers,  213th.  San  Francisco,  CA:  American  Chemical  Society;  v.  37:  400-401. 

Bartlow,  D.  (1995)  [Letter  to  Owens-Coming  tank  customers  clarifying  the  use  of  fiberglass  underground  storage 
tanks  produced  by  Owens-Coming  for  the  storage  of  ether  and  alcohol  fuel  blends].  Toledo,  OH: 
Owens-Coming  World  Headquarters;  April  14. 

Bass,  D.  H.  (1996)  Performance  of  air  sparging  systems:  a  review  of  case  studies  [unpublished  presentation  notes]. 
Norwood,  MA:  Groundwater  Technology,  Inc. 

Belpoggi,  F.;  Soffritti,  M.;  Maltoni,  C.  (1995)  Methyl-tertiary-butyl  ether  (MTBE) — a  gasoline  additive — causes 
testicular  and  lymphohaematopoeitic  cancers  in  rats.  Toxicol.  Ind.  Health  11:  119-149. 

Belpoggi,  F.;  Soffritti,  M.;  Maltoni,  C.  (1998)  Pathological  characterization  of  testicular  tumours  and 
lymphomas-leukaemias,  and  of  their  precursors  observed  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats  exposed  to 
methyl-tertiary-butyl-ether  (MTBE).  Eur.  J.  Oncol.  3:  201-206. 


39 


Bio-Research  Laboratories  Limited.  (1990)  Mass  balance  of  radioactivity  and  metabolism  of  methyl  ferf-butyl  ether 
(MTBE)  in  male  and  female  Fischer  344  rats  after  intravenous,  oral  and  dermal  administration  of 
14C-MTBE.  Senneville,  Quebec,  Canada:  Bio-Research  Laboratories  Ltd.;  report  no.  38843. 

Bird,  M.  G.;  Burleigh-Flayer,  H.  D.;  Chun,  J.  S.;  Douglas,  J.  F.;  Kneiss,  J.  J.;  Andrews,  L.  S.  (1997)  Oncogenicity 
studies  of  inhaled  methyl  tertiary-butyl  ether  (MTBE)  in  CD-I  mice  and  F-344  rats.  J.  Appl.  Toxicol. 
17(suppl.  1):  S45-S55. 

Boorman,  G.  A.;  Botts,  S.;  Bunton,  T.  E.;  Foumie,  J.  W.;  Harshbarger,  J.  C.;  Hawkins,  W.  E.;  Hinton,  D.  E.; 
Jokinen,  M.  P.;  Okihiro,  M.  S.;  Wolfe,  M.  J.  (1997)  Diagnostic  criteria  for  degenerative,  inflammatory, 
proliferative  nonneoplastic  and  neoplastic  liver  lesions  in  medaka  ( Oryzias  latipes ):  consensus  of  a  National 
Toxicology  Program  Pathology  Working  Group.  Toxicol.  Pathol.  25:  202-210. 

Borden,  R.  C.;  Daniel,  R.  A.;  LeBrun,  L.  E.,  IV;  Davis,  C.  W.  (1997)  Intrinsic  biodegradation  of  MTBE  and  BTEX 
in  a  gasoline-contaminated  aquifer.  Water  Resour.  Res.  33:  1 105-1 1 15. 

Borghoff,  S.  J.;  Murphy,  J.  E.;  Medinsky,  M.  A.  (1996)  Development  of  a  physiologically  based  pharmacokinetic 
model  for  methyl  tertiary- butyl  ether  and  tertiary- butanol  in  male  Fischer-344  rats.  Fundam.  Appl.  Toxicol. 
30:  264-275. 

Brown,  S.  L.  (1997)  Atmospheric  and  potable  water  exposures  to  methyl  fe/t-butyl  ether  (MTBE).  Regul.  Toxicol. 
Pharmacol.  25:  256-276. 

Buscheck,  T.  E.;  Gallagher,  D.  J.;  Kuehne,  D.  L.;  Zuspan,  C.  R.  (1998)  Occurrence  and  behavior  of  MTBE  in 
groundwater.  Presented  at:  Underground  storage  tank  conference:  '98  &  beyond;  April;  Los  Angeles,  CA. 
Sacramento,  CA:  State  of  California  Water  Resources  Control  Board. 

California  Department  of  Health  Services.  (1998)  Summary  of  sampling  of  public  drinking  water  systems  for 

methyl  tertiary  butyl  ether  (MTBE).  Sacramento,  CA:  Prevention  Services,  Division  of  Drinking  Water  and 
Environmental  Management;  November  23.  Available  online  at: 
www.dhs.cahwnet.gov/org/ps/ddwem/chemicals/MTBE/mtbesummary.htm. 

California  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  (1998)  Evidence  on  the  carcinogenicity  of  methyl  tertiary  butyl  ether 
(MTBE)  [draft].  Sacramento,  CA:  Office  of  Environmental  Health  Hazard  Assessment.  Available  online  at: 
http://www.oehha.org/docs/Dmtbcmr.htm. 

Carlsen,  T.;  Hall,  L.;  Rice,  D.  (1997)  Ecological  hazards  of  MTBE  exposure:  a  research  agenda.  Springfield,  VA: 
U.S.  Department  of  Commerce,  National  Technical  Information  Service;  report  no.  UCRL-ID- 126290. 

Chen,  C.  T.;  Tafuri,  A.  N.;  Rahman,  M.;  Foerst,  M.  B.  (1998)  Chemical  oxidation  treatment  of  petroleum 
contaminated  soil  using  Fenton's  reagent.  J.  Environ.  Sci.  Health  A33:  987-1008. 

Cho,  J.  S.;  Wilson,  J.  T.;  DiGiulio,  D.  C.;  Vardy,  J.  A.;  Choi,  W.  (1997)  Implementation  of  natural  attenuation  at  a 
JP-4  jet  fuel  release  after  active  remediation.  Biodegradation  8:  265-273. 

Christensen,  K.  P.;  Hockett,  J.  R.;  Stubblefield,  W.  A.;  Steen,  A.;  Grindstaff,  J.;  Wong,  D.  C.  L.;  Arnold,  W.  R. 
(1998)  Derivation  of  ambient  water  quality  criteria  for  MTBE:  toxicity  to  selected  freshwater  organisms. 
Presented  at:  The  natural  connection:  environmental  integrity  and  human  health.  SETAC  19th  annual 
meeting,  poster  session;  November;  Charlotte,  NC.  Pensacola,  FL:  Society  of  Environmental  Toxicology  and 
Chemistry;  PHA148. 

Church,  C.  D.;  Isabelle,  L.  M.;  Pankow,  J.  F.;  Rose,  D.  L.;  Tratnyek,  P.  G.  (1997)  Method  for  determination  of 
methyl  tert- butyl  ether  and  its  degradation  products  in  water.  Environ.  Sci.  Technol.  31:  3723-3726. 


40 


Cirvello,  J.  D.;  Radovsky,  A.;  Heath,  J.  E.;  Famell,  D.  R.;  Lindamood,  C.,  III.  (1995)  Toxicity  and  carcinogenicity 
of  f-butyl  alcohol  in  rats  and  mice  following  chronic  exposure  in  drinking  water.  Toxicol.  Ind.  Health 
11:  151-165. 

Code  of  Federal  Regulations.  (1990)  Technical  standards  and  corrective  action  requirements  for  owners  and 
operators  of  underground  storage  tanks  (UST);  approval  of  state  underground  storage  tank  programs. 

C.  F.  R.  40:  Parts  280  and  281. 

Connor,  B.  F.;  Rose,  D.  L.;  Noriega,  M.  C.;  Murtagh,  L.  K.;  Abney,  S.  R.  (1998)  Methods  of  analysis  by  the 
U.S.  Geological  Survey  National  Water  Quality  Laboratory — determination  of  86  volatile  organic 
compounds  in  water  by  gas  chromatography/mass  spectrometry,  including  detections  less  than  reporting 
limits.  Denver,  CO:  U.S.  Geological  Survey;  open-file  report  97-829. 

Conrad,  D.  L.;  Deever,  W.  R.  (1995)  The  impacts  of  gasoline/oxygenate  releases  to  the  environment  -  a  review  of 
the  literature.  Port  Arthur,  TX:  Texaco  Research  &  Development  Department. 

Corseuil,  H.  X.;  Alvarez,  P.  J.  J.  (1996)  Natural  bioremediation  perspective  for  BTX-contaminated  groundwater  in 
Brazil:  effect  of  ethanol.  Water  Sci.  Technol.  34:  311-318. 

Corseuil,  H.  X.;  Aires,  J.  R.;  Alvarez,  P.  J.  J.  (1996)  Implications  of  the  presence  of  ethanol  on  intrinsic 
bioremediation  of  BTX  plumes  in  Brazil.  Hazard.  Waste  Hazard.  Mater.  13:  213-221. 

Corseuil,  H.  X.;  Hunt,  C.  S.;  Dos  Santos,  R.  C.  F.;  Alvarez,  P.  J.  J.  (1998)  The  influence  of  the  gasoline  oxygenate 
ethanol  on  aerobic  and  anaerobic  BTX  biodegradation.  Water  Res.  32:  2065-2072. 

Curran,  S.  D.  (1997)  Permeability  of  synthetic  membranes  for  the  containment  of  petroleum  products.  Houston, 

TX:  Fiberglass  Tank  &  Pipe  Institute;  March. 

Dale,  M.  S.;  Losee,  R.  F.;  Crofts,  E.  W.;  Davis,  M.  K.  (1997)  MTBE:  occurrence  and  fate  in  source-water  supplies. 
In:  Preprints  of  papers  presented  at  the  213th  ACS  national  meeting;  April;  San  Francisco,  CA.  Natl.  Meet. 
Am.  Chem.  Soc.  Div.  Environ.  Chem.  37:  376-377. 

Dalton,  P.  (1996)  Odor  perception  and  beliefs  about  risk.  Chem.  Senses  21:  447-458. 

Daughtrey,  W.  C.;  Bird,  M.  G.  (1995)  Genotoxicity  and  twenty-eight-day  subchronic  toxicity  studies  on  tertiary 
amyl  methyl  ether.  J.  Appl.  Toxicol.  15:  313-319. 

Davidson,  J.  M.  (1998)  MTBE  &  underground  storage  tank  systems:  a  question  of  compatibility.  Wilmington,  MA: 
New  England  Interstate  Water  Pollution  Control  Commission;  pp.  18-21, 30;  LUSTline  bulletin  no.  28. 

Delzer,  G.  C.;  Zogorski,  J.  S.;  Lopes,  T.  J.;  Bosshart,  R.  L.  (1996)  Occurrence  of  the  gasoline  oxygenate  MTBE 
and  BTEX  compounds  in  urban  stormwater  in  the  United  States,  1991-95.  Rapid  City,  SD:  U.S.  Geological 
Survey;  water-resources  investigations  report  96-4145. 

DeWitt  &  Company,  Incorporated.  (1997)  MTBE  and  oxygenates:  1997  annual.  Houston,  TX:  DeWitt  & 

Company,  Incorporated. 

Dorman,  D.  C.;  Struve,  M.  F.;  Wong,  B.  A.;  Morgan,  K.  T.;  Janszen,  D.  B.;  Gross,  E.  B.;  Bond,  J.  A.  (1997) 

Neurotoxicological  evaluation  of  ethyl  tertiary-butyl  ether  following  subchronic  (90-day)  inhalation  in  the 
Fischer  344  rat.  J.  Appl.  Toxicol.  17:  235-242. 

Douthit,  W.  H.;  Davis,  B.  C.  (1988)  15%  MTBE  waiver  request  [submitted  to  Lee  M.  Thomas,  U.S.  Enviromental 
Protection  Agency,  Washington,  DC],  Sun  Refining  and  Marketing  Company.  March. 


41 


Douthit,  W.  H.;  Davis,  B.  C.;  De  Lieu  Steinke,  E.;  Doherty,  H.  M.  (1988)  Performance  features  of  15% 

MTBE/gasoline  blends.  Warrendale,  PA:  Society  of  Automotive  Engineers,  Inc.;  report  no.  881667. 

Drake,  D.  E.;  Gregory,  L.  R.  Hotaling,  A.  C.  (1995)  Effect  of  MTBE  and  other  oxygenates  on  FRP  underground 
storage  tanks  -  an  interim  report. 

Eichelberger,  J.  W.;  Munch,  J.  W.;  Bellar,  T.  A.  (1992)  Method  524.2.  Measurement  of  purgeable  organic 

compounds  in  water  by  capillary  column  gas  chromatography /mass  spectrometry:  revision  4.0.  Cincinnati, 
OH:  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Research  and  Development;  August. 

European  Centre  for  Ecotoxicology  and  Toxicology  of  Chemicals.  (1997)  Methyl  tert-butyl  ether  (MTBE)  health 
risk  characterisation.  Brussels,  Belgium:  ECETOC;  technical  report  no.  72. 

Federal  Register.  (1995)  Testing  consent  order  for  tertiary  amyl  methyl  ether.  F.  R.  (March  21)  54:  14910-14912. 

Federal  Register.  (1998)  Announcement  of  the  drinking  water  contaminant  candidate  list.  F.  R.  (March  2) 

63:  10,273-10,287. 

Froines,  J.  R.;  Collins,  M.;  Fanning,  E.;  McConnell,  R.;  Robbins,  W.;  Silver,  K.;  Kun,  H.;  Mutialu,  R.;  Okoji,  R.; 
Taber,  R.;  Tareen,  N.;  Zandonella,  C.  (1998)  An  Evaluation  of  the  scientific  peer-reviewed  research  and 
literature  on  the  human  health  effects  of  MTBE,  its  metabolites,  combustion  products  and  substitute 
compounds.  In:  Health  and  environmental  assessment  of  MTBE:  report  to  the  Governor  and  legislature  of 
the  state  of  California  as  sponsored  by  SB  521.  Volume  II:  human  health  effects.  Davis,  CA:  University  of 
California  Toxic  Substances  Research  &  Teaching  Program.  Available  online  at: 
http://www.tsrtp.ucdavis.edu/mtbertp/homepage.html. 

Galperin,  Y.  (1998)  Gasoline  oxygenate  analysis  in  environmental  samples  by  two-dimensional  gas 

chromatography.  Presented  at:  West  coast  conference  on  contaminated  soil  and  groundwater;  March. 

Garrett,  P.  (1987)  Oxygenates  as  ground  water  contaminants.  Presented  at:  1987  conference  on  alcohols  and 
octane;  April;  San  Antonio,  TX. 

Georgopoulos,  P.  G.;  Walia,  A.;  Roy,  A.;  Lioy,  P.  J.  (1997)  Integrated  exposure  and  dose  modeling  and  analysis 
system.  1.  Formulation  and  testing  of  microenvironmental  and  pharmacokinetic  components.  Environ.  Sci. 
Technol.  31:  17-27. 

Geraghty  &  Miller,  Incorporated.  (1996)  MTBE  contamination  forces  well  closures.  Groundwater  Newsl. 

25(16):  1. 

Geyer,  W.  B.  (1995)  Compatibility  of  steel  with  oxygenated  fuels.  Presented  at:  American  Petroleum  Institute 

materials  compatibility  roundtable:  an  industry  discussion;  September;  Cincinnati,  OH.  American  Petroleum 
Institute. 

Giardino,  N.  J.;  Andelman,  J.  B.  (1996)  Characterization  of  the  emissions  of  trichloroethylene,  chloroform,  and 
l,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane  in  a  full-size,  experimental  shower.  J.  Exposure  Anal.  Environ.  Epidemiol. 

6:  413-423. 

Grady,  S.  J.  (1997)  Distribution  of  MTBE  in  ground  water  in  New  England  by  aquifer  type  and  land  use.  In: 
Preprints  of  papers  presented  at  the  213th  ACS  national  meeting;  April;  San  Francisco,  CA.  Natl.  Meet. 

Am.  Chem.  Soc.  Div.  Environ.  Chem.  37:  392-394. 

Grady,  D.;  Johnson,  R.  L.  (1995)  Vapor  extraction  of  a  contaminated  fractured  clay.  In:  Petroleum  hydrocarbons 
and  organic  chemicals  in  ground  water:  prevention,  detection  and  remediation,  proceedings  of  a  conference. 
Dublin,  OH:  National  Ground  Water  Association;  pp.  593-604. 


42 


Happel,  A.  M.;  Beckenbach,  E.  H.;  Halden,  R.  U.  (1998)  An  evaluation  of  MTBE  Impacts  to  California 

groundwater  resources.  Livermore,  CA:  Lawrence  Livermore  National  Laboratory;  UCRL-AR- 130897. 

Health  Effects  Institute.  (1996)  The  potential  health  effects  of  oxygenates  added  to  gasoline:  a  review  of  the  current 
literature,  a  special  report  of  the  Institute's  Oxygenates  Evaluation  Committee.  Cambridge,  MA:  Health 
Effects  Institute,  Oxygenates  Evaluation  Committee. 

Hitzig,  R.;  Kostecki,  P.;  Leonard,  D.  (1998)  Study  reports  LUST  programs  are  feeling  effects  of  MTBE  releases. 
Soil  Groundwater  Cleanup  (Aug/Sept):  15-19. 

Hoff,  J.  T.;  Gregor,  D.;  MacKay,  D.;  Wania,  F.;  Jia,  C.  Q.  (1998)  Measurement  of  the  specific  surface  area  of  snow 
with  the  nitrogen  adsorption  technique.  Environ.  Sci.  Technol.  32:  58-62. 

Hong,  J.-Y.;  Wang,  Y.-Y.;  Bondoc,  F.  Y.;  Yang,  C.  S.;  Lee,  M.;  Huang,  W.-Q.  (1997)  Rat  olfactory  mucosa 

displays  a  high  activity  in  metabolizing  methyl  tert- butyl  ether  and  other  gasoline  ethers.  Fundam.  Appl. 
Toxicol.  40:  205-210. 

Hotaling,  A.  C.  (1995)  Evaluating  nonmetallic  materials'  compatibility  with  MTBE  and  MTBE  +  gasoline  service. 
In:  American  energy  week  '95  -  pipelines,  terminals  &  storage  II:  reformulated  fuels  conference 
proceedings.  AST:  special  problems  I;  pp.  1 18-126. 

Hunt,  C.  S.;  Alvarez,  P.  J.  J.;  Dos  Santos  Ferreira,  R.;  Corseuil,  H.  X.  (1997)  Effect  of  ethanol  on  aerobic  BTX 
degradation.  In:  In  situ  and  on-site  bioremediation:  volume  1.  Papers  from  the  fourth  international  in  situ 
and  on-site  bioremediation  symposium;  April-May;  New  Orleans,  LA.  Columbus,  OH:  Battelle  Press,  pp. 
49-54. 

Huttunen,  H.;  Wyness,  L.  E.;  Kalliokoski,  P.  (1997)  Identification  of  environmental  hazards  of  gasoline  oxygenate 
ferf-amyl  methyl  ether  (TAME).  Chemosphere  35:  1 199-1214. 

IIT  Research  Institute.  (1992)  Twenty-eight  day  oral  (gavage)  toxicity  study  of  methyl  ferf-butyl  ether  (MTBE)  in 
rats  [final  report],  Chicago,  IL:  IIT  Research  Institute;  project  no.  L08100SN1602. 

Interagency  Oxygenated  Fuels  Assessment  Steering  Committee.  (1996)  Interagency  assessment  of  potential  health 
risks  associated  with  oxygenated  gasoline.  Washington,  DC:  National  Science  and  Technology  Council  and 
Office  of  Science  and  Technology  Policy. 

Interagency  Oxygenated  Fuels  Assessment  Steering  Committee.  (1997)  Interagency  assessment  of  oxygenated 

fuels.  Washington,  DC:  National  Science  and  Technology  Council,  Committee  on  Environment  and  Natural 
Resources  and  Office  of  Science  and  Technology  Policy. 

International  Agency  for  Research  on  Cancer.  (1998)  Evaluation  or  re-evaluation  of  some  agents  which  target 
specific  organs  in  rodent  bioassays.  In:  Some  agents  affecting  specific  target  organs  in  rodent  bioassays. 
Lyon,  France:  International  Agency  for  Research  on  Cancer;  pp.  445-474.  (IARC  monographs  on  the 
evaluation  of  the  carcinogenic  risk  of  chemicals  to  humans:  v.  73).  Available  online  at: 
http://l  93.5 1 . 1 64. 1 1  /default.html. 

Johanson,  G.;  Lof,  A.;  Nihlen,  A.;  Pekari,  K.;  Riihimki,  V.  (1997)  Toxicokinetics  of  ethers  in  humans  -  a 
comparison  of  MTBE,  ETBE,  and  TAME.  In:  Abstracts  of  the  36th  annual  meeting  of  the  Society  of 
Toxicology;  March;  Cincinnati,  OH.  Toxicologist  36(1,  part  2):  339. 

Kang,  J.-W.;  Hoffmann,  M.  R.  (1998)  Kinetics  and  mechanism  of  the  sonolytic  destruction  of  methyl  terf-butyl 
ether  by  ultrasonic  irradiation  in  the  presence  of  ozone.  Environ.  Sci.  Technol.  32:  3194-3199. 


43 


Landmeyer,  J.  E.;  Chapelle,  F.  H.;  Bradley,  P.  M.;  Pankow,  J.  F.;  Church,  C.  D.;  Tratnyek,  P.  G.  (1998)  Fate  of 
MTBE  relative  to  benzene  in  a  gasoline-contaminated  aquifer  (1993-98).  Ground  Water  Monit.  Rem. 
[accepted]. 

Leitner,  N.  K.  V.;  Papailhou,  A.-L.;  Crou6,  J.-P.;  Peyrot,  J.;  Dore,  M.  (1994)  Oxidation  of  methyl  tert-butyl  ether 
(MTBE)  and  ethyl  tert-butyl  ether  (ETBE)  by  ozone  and  combined  ozone/hydrogen  peroxide.  Ozone  Sci. 
Eng.  16:  41-54. 

Lindsey,  B.  D.;  Breen,  K.  J.;  Daly,  M.  H.  (1997)  MTBE  in  water  from  fractured-bedrock  aquifers,  southcentral 
Pennsylvania.  In:  Preprints  of  papers  presented  at  the  213th  ACS  national  meeting;  April;  San  Francisco, 
CA.  Natl.  Meet.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  Div.  Environ.  Chem.  37:  399-400. 

Lindstrom,  A.  B.;  Highsmith,  V.  R.;  Buckley,  T.  J.;  Pate,  W.  J.;  Michael,  L.  C.  (1994)  Gasoline-contaminated 
ground  water  as  a  source  of  residential  benzene  exposure:  a  case  study.  J.  Exposure  Anal.  Environ. 
Epidemiol.  4:  183-195. 

Maine  Department  of  Human  Services,  Bureau  of  Health.  (1998)  Presence  of  MTBE  and  other  gasoline  compounds 
in  Maine's  drinking  water:  a  preliminary  report.  Augusta,  ME:  Maine  Department  of  Human  Services, 
Bureau  of  Health;  October  13.  Available  online  at:  www.state.me.us/dhs/boh/index2.htm. 

Malcolm  Pimie  Incorporated.  (1997)  Estimates  of  annual  costs  to  remove  MTBE  from  water  for  potable  uses. 
Arlington,  VA:  Oxygenated  Fuels  Association,  Inc.;  technical  memorandum. 

Malcolm  Pimie,  Incorporated.  (1998a)  Modeling  the  volatilization  of  methyl  tertiary-butyl  ether  (MTBE)  from 
surface  impoundments.  Arlington,  VA:  Oxygenated  Fuels  Association,  Inc.;  technical  memorandum. 

Malcolm  Pimie,  Incorporated.  (1998b)  Taste  and  odor  properties  of  methyl  tertiary-butyl  ether  and  implications  for 
setting  a  secondary  maximum  contaminant  level.  Arlington,  VA:  Oxygenated  Fuels  Association,  Inc.;  report 
no.  3195-001-007. 

Malley,  J.  P.;  Locandro,  R.  R.;  Wagler,  J.  L.  (1993)  Innovative  point-of-entry  (POE)  treatment  for  petroleum 
contaminated  water  supply  wells.  Final  report.  Durham,  NH:  U.S.  Geological  Survey,  New  Hampshire 
Water  Resources  Research  Center. 

Mancini,  E.  R.;  Arnold,  W.  R.;  BenKinney,  M.  T.;  Gostomski,  F.  E.;  Rausina,  G.  A.;  Steen,  A.;  Wong,  D.  C.  L. 
(1998)  MTBE  water  quality  criteria  database  development:  a  collaborative  effort.  Presented  at:  The  natural 
connection:  environmental  integrity  and  human  health.  SETAC  19th  annual  meeting,  poster  session; 
November;  Charlotte,  NC.  Pensacola,  FL:  Society  of  Environmental  Toxicology  and  Chemistry;  PHA149. 

McKinnon,  R.  J.;  Dyksen,  J.  E.  (1984)  Removing  organics  from  groundwater  through  aeration  plus  GAC.  J.  Am. 
Water  Works  Assoc.  76:  42-  47. 

McKone,  T.  E.;  Knezovich,  J.  P.  (1991)  The  transfer  of  trichloroethylene  (TCE)  from  a  shower  to  indoor  air: 
experimental  measurements  and  their  implications.  J.  Air  Waste  Manage.  Assoc.  41:  832-837. 

Meli,  P.  I.,  Jr.  (1996)  [Letter  to  Ms.  Sonya  Harrigfeld  concerning  Bridgeport  Chemical  Group's  GA  27P 
underground  storage  tank  lining  product],  Pompano  Beach,  FL:  Industrial  Environmental  Coatings 
Corporation;  August,  14. 

Mormile,  M.  R.;  Liu,  S.;  Suflita,  J.  M.  (1994)  Anaerobic  biodegradation  of  gasoline  oxygenates:  extrapolation  of 
information  to  multiple  sites  and  redox  conditions.  Environ.  Sci.  Technol.  28:  1727-1732. 


44 


National  Research  Council;  Committee  on  Toxicological  and  Performance  Aspects  of  Oxygenated  and 

Reformulated  Motor  Vehicle  Fuels.  (1996)  Toxicological  and  performance  aspects  of  oxygenated  motor 
vehicle  fuels.  Washington,  DC:  National  Academy  Press. 

Pankow,  J.  F.;  Thomson,  N.  R.;  Johnson,  R.  L.;  Baehr,  A.  L.;  Zogorski,  J.  S.  (1997)  The  urban  atmosphere  as  a 
non-point  source  for  the  transport  of  MTBE  and  other  volatile  organic  compounds  (VOCs)  to  shallow 
groundwater.  In:  Preprints  of  papers  presented  at  the  213th  ACS  national  meeting;  April;  San  Francisco, 
CA.  Natl.  Meet.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  Div.  Environ.  Chem.  37:  385-387. 

Petroleum  Environmental  Research  Forum.  (1993)  Aerobic  biodegradation  of  MTBE  -  basic  fate  of  biokinetics 
evaluation,  final  report  of  PERF  project  90-10,  June,  1993. 

Piver,  W.  T.;  Jacobs,  T.  L.;  Medina,  M.  A.,  Jr.  (1997)  Evaluation  of  health  risks  for  contaminated  aquifers. 
Environ.  Flealth  Perspect.  105(suppl.  1):  127-143. 

Prah,  J.  D.;  Goldstein,  G.  M.;  Devlin,  R.;  Otto,  D.;  Ashley,  D.;  House,  D.;  Cohen,  K.  L.;  Gerrity,  T.  (1994) 

Sensory,  symptomatic,  inflammatory,  and  ocular  responses  to  and  the  metabolism  of  methyl  tertiary  butyl 
ether  in  a  controlled  human  exposure  experiment.  Inhalation  Toxicol.  6:  521-538. 

Rao,  H.  V.;  Ginsberg,  G.  L.  (1997)  A  physiologically-based  pharmacokinetic  model  assessment  of  methyl  f-butyl 
ether  in  groundwater  for  a  bathing  and  showering  determination.  Risk  Anal.  17:  583-598. 

Reuter,  J.  E.;  Allen,  B.  C.;  Richards,  R.  C.;  Pankow,  J.  F.;  Goldman,  C.  R.;  Scholl,  R.  L.;  Seyffied,  J.  S.  (1998) 
Concentrations,  sources,  and  fate  of  the  gasoline  oxygenate  methyl  terf-butyl  ether  (MTBE)  in  a 
multiple-use  lake.  Environ.  Sci.  Technol.  32:  3666-3672. 

Rhodes,  I.;  Milazzo,  J.;  Brzuzy,  L.;  Harvey,  L.;  Verstuyft,  A.;  Halden,  R.;  Schoen,  S.;  Galperin,  Y.;  Kaplan,  I.; 
Happel,  A.  (1998)  Analytical  methods  for  the  determination  of  oxygenates  in  gasoline-contaminated 
groundwater:  modified  EPA  and  ASTM  methods.  Presented  at:  21st  annual  EPA  conference  on  analysis  of 
pollutants  in  the  environment;  May;  Norfolk,  VA. 

Robinson,  M.;  Bruner,  R.  H.;  Olson,  G.  R.  (1990)  Fourteen-  and  ninety-day  oral  toxicity  studies  of  methyl 
tertiary-butyl  ether  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats.  J.  Am.  Coll.  Toxicol.  9:  525-540. 

Salanitro,  J.  P.;  Diaz,  L.  A.;  Williams,  M.  P.;  Wisniewski,  H.  L.  (1994)  Isolation  of  a  bacterial  culture  that 
degrades  methyl  t-butyl  ether.  Appl.  Environ.  Microbiol.  60:  2593-2596. 

Schirmer,  M.;  Barker,  J.  F.  (1998)  A  study  of  long-term  MTBE  attenuation  in  the  Borden  Aquifer,  Ontario, 
Canada.  Ground  Water  Monit.  Rem.  18:  113-122. 

Shen,  Y.  F.;  Yoo,  L.  J.;  Fitzsimmons,  S.  R.;  Yamamoto,  M.  K.  (1997)  Threshold  odor  concentrations  of  MTBE 
and  other  fuel  oxygenates.  In:  Preprints  of  papers  presented  at  the  213th  American  Chemical  Society 
national  meeting;  April;  San  Francisco,  CA;  pp.  407-409.  (ACS  Division  of  Environmental  Chemistry: 
v.  37) 

Siddiqui,  M.;  LeChevallier,  M.  W.;  Ban,  J.;  Phillips,  T.;  Pivinski,  J.  (1998)  Occurrence  of  perchlorate  and  methyl 
tertiary  butyl  ether  (MTBE)  in  groundwater  of  the  American  water  system.  Vorhees,  NJ:  American  Water 
Works  Service  Company,  Inc.;  September  30. 

Smith  Fiberglass  Products,  Inc.  (1996)  Just  the  facts  [permeability  testing  of  piping  systems  manufactured  by 
Smith  Fiberglass  Products].  Little  Rock,  AR:  Smith  Fiberglass  Products,  Inc. 

Smith,  D.  F.;  Kleindienst,  T.  E.;  Hudgens,  E.  E.;  Mclver,  C.  D.;  Bufalini,  J.  J.  (1991)  The  photooxidation  of 
methyl  tertiary  butyl  ether.  Int.  J.  Chem.  Kinet.  23:  907-924. 


45 


Speth,  T.  F.;  Miltner,  R.  J.  (1990)  Technical  note:  adsorption  capacity  of  GAC  for  synthetic  organics.  J.  Am.  Water 
Works  Assoc.  82:  72-75. 

Squillace,  P.  J.;  Zogorski,  J.  S.;  Wilber,  W.  G.;  Price,  C.  V.  (1996)  Preliminary  assessment  of  the  occurrence  and 
possible  sources  of  MTBE  in  groundwater  in  the  United  States,  1993-1994.  Environ.  Sci.  Technol. 

30:  1721-1730. 

Squillace,  P.  J.;  Zogorski,  J.  S.;  Price,  C.  V.;  Wilber,  W.  G.  (1997)  Preliminary  assessment  of  the  occurrence  and 
possible  sources  of  MTBE  in  groundwater  in  the  United  States,  1993-94.  In:  Chilton,  J.;  et  al,  eds. 
Groundwater  in  the  urban  environment.  Volume  1:  problems,  processes  and  management.  Rotterdam, 

The  Netherlands:  A.  A.  Balkema;  pp.  537-542. 

Stackelberg,  P.  E.;  O'Brien,  A.  K.;  Terracciano,  S.  A.  (1997)  Occurrence  of  MTBE  in  surface  and  ground  water, 
Long  Island,  New  York,  and  New  Jersey.  In:  Preprints  of  papers  presented  at  the  213th  ACS  national 
meeting;  April;  San  Francisco,  CA.  Natl.  Meet.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  Div.  Environ.  Chem.  37:  394-397. 

Steffan,  R.  J.;  McClay,  K.;  Vainberg,  S.;  Condee,  C.  W.;  Zhang,  D.  (1997)  Biodegradation  of  the  gasoline 

oxygenates  methyl  tert- butyl  ether,  ethyl  ferf-butyl  ether,  and  fert-amyl  methyl  ether  by  propane-oxidizing 
bacteria.  Appl.  Environ.  Microbiol.  63:  4216-4222. 

Suflita,  J.  M.;  Mormile,  M.  R.  (1993)  Anaerobic  biodegradation  of  known  and  potential  gasoline  oxygenates  in  the 
terrestrial  subsurface.  Environ.  Sci.  Technol.  27:  976-978. 

TRC  Environmental  Corporation.  (1993)  Odor  threshold  studies  performed  with  gasoline  and  gasoline  combined 
with  MTBE,  ETBE  and  TAME.  Washington,  DC:  American  Petroleum  Institute;  API  publication  no.  4592. 

Tennant,  R.  W.;  French,  J.  E.;  Spalding,  J.  W.  (1995)  Identity ing  chemical  carcinogens  and  assessing  potential 
risk  in  short-term  bioassays  using  transgenic  mouse  models.  Environ.  Health  Perspect.  103:  942-950. 

Truong,  K.  N.;  Parmele,  C.  S.  (1992)  Cost-effective  alternative  treatment  technologies  for  reducing  the 

concentrations  of  methyl  tertiary  butyl  ether  and  methanol  in  groundwater.  In:  Calabrese,  E.  J.;  Kostecki, 

P.  T.,  eds.  Hydrocarbon  contaminated  soils  and  groundwater:  v.  2.  Boca  Raton,  Fi:  Lewis  Publishers; 
pp.  461-486. 

U.  S.  Code.  (1977)  Clean  Water  Act.  U.  S.  C.  33:  §305(b). 

U.S.  Code.  (1990)  Clean  Air  Act,  §211,  regulation  of  fuels:  (k)  reformulated  gasoline  for  conventional  vehicles; 

(m)  oxygenated  fuels.  U.  S.  C.  42:  §7545. 

U.S.  Code.  (1996)  Safe  Drinking  Water  Act,  as  amended  by  PL  104-208,  September  30.  U.  S.  C.  42:  §300f  et  seq. 

U.S.  Department  of  Energy.  (1995)  Petroleum  supply  annual  1995:  volume  1.  Washington,  DC:  Energy 
Information  Administration,  Office  of  Oil  &  Gas;  report  no.  DOE/EIA-0340(95). 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  (1992)  Alternative  fuels  research  strategy  [external  review  draft], 
Washington,  DC:  Office  of  Research  and  Development;  report  no.  EPA/600/AP-92/002. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  (1993)  Assessment  of  potential  risks  of  gasoline  oxygenated  with  methyl 
tertiary  butyl  ether  (MTBE).  Washington,  DC:  Office  of  Research  and  Development;  November;  report  no. 
EPA/600/R-93/206. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  (1994)  Health  risk  perspectives  on  fuel  oxygenates.  Washington,  DC: 

Office  of  Research  and  Development;  report  no.  EPA  600/R-94/217. 


46 


U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  (1996)  Oxyfuels  information  needs.  Research  Triangle  Park,  NC:  National 
Center  for  Environmental  Assessment;  report  no.  EPA/600/R-96/069.  Available  from:  NTIS,  Springfield, 
VA;  PB96- 190665REB. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  (1997)  Drinking  water  advisory:  consumer  acceptability  advice  and  health 
effects  analysis  on  methyl  tertiary-butyl  ether  (MTBE).  Washington,  DC:  Office  of  Water;  report  no. 
EPA-822-F-97-008. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  (1998a)  1996  toxics  release  inventory  public  data  release.  Washington, 

DC:  Office  of  Pollution  Prevention  and  Toxics;  pp.  19-284.  Available  online  at: 
http://www.epa.gov/opptintr/tri/index.html. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  (1998b)  Appendix  A  to  part  136:  methods  for  organic  chemical  analysis  of 
municipal  and  industrial  wastewater.  Method  624 — purgeables.  Washington,  DC:  Office  of  Water;  August 
24.  Available  online  at:  www.epa.gov/OST/Tools/guide/methods.html. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  (1998c)  Method  8260B:  volatile  organic  compounds  by  gas 

chromatography /mass  spectrometry  (GC/MS).  Washington,  DC:  Office  of  Solid  Waste.  Available  online  at: 
www.epa.gov/epaoswer/hazwaste/test/8xxx.htm. 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  (1998d)  Final  notification  letter  to  API  of  testing  requirements  for  baseline 
gasoline  and  non-baseline  (oxygenated)  gasoline  groups  under  section  211(b)  of  the  Clean  Air  Act  [letter 
from  Margo  T.  Oge,  Director,  Office  of  Mobile  Sources  to  Carol  Henry,  Director,  Health  and  Environmental 
Science  Department,  American  Petroleum  Institute].  Washington,  DC:  Office  of  Mobile  Sources;  November 
2.  Available  online  at:  http://www.epa.gov/oms/consumer/fuels/mtbe/mtbe.htm. 

Vetrano,  K.  (1993a)  Odor  and  taste  threshold  studies  performed  with  tertiary-amyl  methyl  ether  (TAME). 
Washington,  DC:  American  Petroleum  Institute;  API  publication  4591. 

Vetrano,  K.  M.  (1993b)  Final  report  to  ARCO  Chemical  Company  on  the  odor  and  taste  threshold  studies 

performed  with  methyl  tertiary-butyl  ether  (MTBE)  and  ethyl  tertiary-butyl  ether  (ETBE).  Windsor,  CT: 
TRC  Environmental  Corporation;  project  no.  13442-M31. 

Wallington,  T.  J.;  Dagaut,  P.;  Liu,  R.;  Kurylo,  M.  J.  (1988)  Gas-phase  reactions  of  hydroxyl  radicals  with  the  fuel 
additives  methyl  terf-butyl  ether  and  ferf-butyl  alcohol  over  the  temperature  range  240-440  K.  Environ.  Sci. 
Technol.  22:  842-844. 

Weisel,  C.  P.;  Jo,  W.-K.  (1996)  Ingestion,  inhalation,  and  dermal  exposures  to  chloroform  and  trichloroethene 
from  tap  water.  Environ.  Health  Perspect.  104:  48-51. 

Wilkes,  C.  R.;  Small,  M.  J.;  Davidson,  C.  I.;  Andelman,  J.  B.  (1996)  Modeling  the  effects  of  water  usage  and 

co-behavior  on  inhalation  exposures  to  contaminants  volatilized  from  household  water.  J.  Exposure  Anal. 
Environ.  Epidemiol.  6:  393-412. 

Wybomy,  L.  A.,  II.  (1997)  Oxy-water  res  strategy  question  -reply  [email  memorandum  to  J.  Michael  Davis,  U.S. 
EPA,  RTP,  NC].  Ann  Arbor,  MI:  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Mobile  Sources;  August 
18. 

Wyborny,  L.,  II.  (1998)  Methyl  tertiary  butyl  ether  (MTBE)  emissions  from  passenger  cars  [draft  technical  report]. 
Ann  Arbor,  MI:  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Mobile  Sources. 

Yeh,  K.-J.  (1992)  Degradation  of  gasoline  oxygenates  in  the  subsurface  [dissertation].  Blacksburg,  VA:  Virginia 
Polytechnic  Institute. 


47 


Young,  W.  F.;  Horth,  H.;  Crane,  R.;  Ogden,  T.;  Amott,  M.  (1996)  Taste  and  odour  threshold  concentrations  of 
potential  potable  water  contaminants.  Water  Res.  30:  331-340. 

Zogorski,  J.  S.;  Delzer,  G.  C.;  Bender,  D.  A.;  Squillace,  P.  J.;  Lopes,  T.  J.;  Baehr,  A.  L.;  Stackelberg,  P.  E.; 
Landmeyer,  J.  E.;  Boughton,  C.  J.;  Lico,  M.  S.;  Pankow,  J.  F.;  Johnson,  R.  L.;  Thomson,  N.  R.  (1998) 
MTBE:  summary  of  findings  and  research  by  the  U.S.  Geological  Survey.  In:  Proceedings  of  the  1998 
annual  conference  of  the  American  Water  Works  Association  [in  press]. 


48 


APPENDIX  1 


CHEMICAL  PROPERTIES  OF  SELECTED  OXYGENATES 


Chemical  Name 

Methyl  Tertiary 
Butyl  Ether 

Ethyl  Tertiary 
Butyl  Ether 

Tertiary  Amyl 
Methyl  Ether 

Diisopropyl 

Ether 

CAS  Registry  No. 

1634-04-4 

637-92-3 

994-05-8 

108-20-3 

Synonyms 

MTBE;  2-methyl, 
2-methoxy  propane; 
tert-butyl  methyl 
ether;  methyl  tert 
butyl  ether; 
methyl-tert-butyl 
ether 

ETBE;  tert-butyl 
ethyl  ether;  propane, 
2-ethoxy-2methyl; 

1,  1 -dimethyl  ethyl 
ether 

TAME;  2-methoxy-2 
methylbutane;  methyl 
tert-pentyl  ether; 
1,1-dimethylpropyl 
methyl  ether;  methyl 
tert-amyl  ether 

DIPE;  2'2- 
oxybispropane; 
2-isopropoxy- 
propane 

Molecular 

Weight  (g/mol) 

88.15 

102.18 

102.18 

102.18 

Molecular 

Formula 

c5hI2o 

c6h14o 

c6hI4o 

c6h14o 

Structural 

Formula 

CH3OC(CH3)3 

(CH3)3COCH2CH3 

CH3CH2C(CH3)2OCH3 

(CH3)2CHOCH 

(CH3)2 

Boiling  Point 
(at  760  mm  Hg) 

55.2  °C 

72.2  °C 

86.3  °C 

68.2  °C 

Vapor  Pressure 
(mm  Hg  at 

20  °C) 

240 

130 

75 

159 

Vapor  Density 
(air  =  1) 

3.1 

3.6 

3.6 

3.6 

Density 

(g/ml  at  20  °C) 

0.74 

0.74 

0.77 

0.73 

Solubility 
(g/100  g  water) 

4.8 

1.2 

1.2 

0.2 

Henry’s  Law 
Constant 

(Atm-m3)/ 

(g-mole) 

5.28E-4  to  3E-3 

2.64E-3 

1.95E-3 

4.77E-3 

Dimensionless 

2.2E-2  to  1.2E-1 

0.11 

0.081 

0.199 

Log  Koc 

0.55  to  0.91 

NA 

NA 

1.13 

Log  KoW 

0.94  to  1.30 

NA 

NA 

1.52 

49 


CHEMICAL  PROPERTIES  OF  SELECTED  OXYGENATES  (cont’d) 


Chemical  Name 

Tertiary  Amyl  Ethyl 
Ether 

Dimethyl  Ether 

Tertiary  Butanol 

Ethanol 

CAS  Registry  No. 

919-94-8 

115-10-6 

75-65-0 

64-17-5 

Synonyms 

TAEE;  ethyl  tert-amyl 
ether;  butane, 
2-ethoxy-2-methyl 

DME;  methane, 
oxybis 

TBA;  tertiary  butyl 
alcohol;  2-propanol, 
2-methyl 

ethanol; 
ethyl  alcohol 

Molecular 

Weight  (g/mol) 

116.20 

46.07 

74.12 

46.07 

Molecular 

Formula 

c7h16o 

c2h,o 

c4h10o 

c2h6o 

Structural 

Formula 

CH3CH2C(CH3)2OCH2C 

h3 

ch3och3 

(CH3)3COH 

ch3ch2oh 

Boiling  Point 
(at  760  mm  Hg) 

102  °C 

-24.8  °C 

82.4  °C 

78.5  °C 

Vapor  Pressure 
(mm  Hg  at  20  °C) 

NA 

758  to  5086’ 

41 

44 

Vapor  Density 
(air-  1) 

4.0 

1.6 

2.6 

1.6 

Density 

(g/mL  at  20  °C) 

0.75 

0.66 

0.79 

0.79 

Solubility 
(g/100  g  water) 

NA 

4.7  to  35.3 

miscible 

miscible 

Henry’s  Law 
Constant 


(Atm-m3)/ 

(g-mole) 

NA 

4.89E-4  to  9.97E-4 

1.21E-5 

6.91E-6 

Dimensionless 

NA 

2.03E-2  to  4.15E-2 

5.03E-4 

2.83E-4 

Log 

NA 

-0.29 

1.57 

-0.14 

Log  K„w 

NA 

0.10 

0.35 

-0.32 

’At  25°C 


50 


APPENDIX  2 


CURRENT  PROJECTS  RELATED  TO 
OXYGENATES  IN  WATER 

This  list  of  projects  and  activities  is  organized  alphabetically  according  to  the  organizations 
conducting  and/or  sponsoring  the  work.  Contact  persons  are  identified  parenthetically  for 
obtaining  further  details,  followed  by  a  short  title,  brief  description,  and  status  of  the  project. 
After  each  item,  topic  identifiers  are  included  for  cross  referencing  to  areas  of  needed  work 
identified  in  the  base  document.  This  list  was  completed  in  December  1 998  with  the  intention  of 
being  as  complete  and  accurate  as  possible.  However,  given  the  breadth  and  dynamic  nature  of 
this  area  of  work,  some  omissions  and  errors  may  have  occurred. 


Alpine  Environmental  (James  Davidson) 

MTBE  Remediation;  An  Evaluation  of  Technologies,  Field  Experience,  and  Case  Studies. 

Review  and  analysis  of  remediation  technologies  applicable  for  MTBE;  discusses  both  theory 
and  actual  case  studies  [American  Petroleum  Institute  report,  in  press]. 

Contaminant  Removal;  Assessment 

American  Petroleum  Institute  (H.  Hopkins) 

MTBE  Site  Characterization  Technical  Bulletin. 

Describes  approaches  for  characterizing  and  monitoring  subsurface  MTBE  sources  and  plumes, 
highlighting  differences  between  MTBE  and  BTEX  [expected  completion  second  quarter  1999], 
Source  Characterization;  Transport;  Transformation 

Association  of  California  Water  Agencies;  Western  States  Petroleum  Association; 
Oxygenated  Fuels  Association;  California  Environmental  Protection  Agency;  U.S. 
Environmental  Protection  Agency  (Krista  Clark,  ACWA;  Dave  Smith,  ARCO) 

MTBE  Treatability  Research  Partnership. 

Joint  research  program  to  evaluate  existing  and  emerging  treatment  technologies  to  remove 
MTBE  from  public  drinking  water  supplies  [report  expected  by  mid- 1999], 

Contaminant  Removal 

Chemical  Industry  Institute  of  Toxicology;  Oxygenated  Fuels  Association  (Susan  Borghoff, 
CUT;  John  Kneiss,  OF  A) 

MTBE  Cancer  Mechanisms. 

Study  of  role  of  alpha-2u-globulin  in  MTBE-induced  kidney  tumors  in  male  rats  [report  expected 
late  1998], 

Health  Effects 


51 


Environmental  and  Occupational  Health  Sciences  Institute;  ARCO  Chemical;  State  of  New 
Jersey  (Paul  Lioy,  Nancy  Fiedler,  EOHSI) 

Inhalation  Chamber  Study  of  MTBE  in  Humans. 

Inhalation  exposure  to  MTBE  in  gasoline  evaluated  in  controls  and  in  subjects  self-described  as 
sensitive  to  MTBE;  although  only  inhalation  route  used,  results  might  be  relevant  to  other  routes 
[expected  completion  early  1999]. 

Health  Effects 

European  Union;  Finnish  Environmental  Institute;  Finnish  National  Product  Control 
Agency  for  Welfare  and  Health  (Riitta  Leinonen,  FEI) 

MTBE  Risk  Assessment. 

Assessment  of  environmental  and  health  risks  of  MTBE  under  Commission  directive  93/67/EEC 
[publication  expected  1999]. 

Assessment 

International  Agency  for  Research  on  Cancer  (Julian  Wilboume) 

MTBE  Monograph. 

Evaluation  of  carcinogenic  risks  of  MTBE  to  humans  [workgroup  review  October  1998; 
publication  1999]. 

Assessment 

Lawrence  Livermore  National  Laboratory;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (Anne  Happel, 
LLNL;  Bruce  Bauman,  API) 

Study  of  MTBE  and  BTEX  Plumes  at  Califomia/UST  Release  Sites. 

Characterize  trends  in  the  attenuation,  magnitude  of  impact,  and  mobility  of  MTBE  plumes  in 
groundwater  as  compared  to  BTEX  and  evaluate  the  effectiveness  of  tank  upgrades  in  preventing 
MTBE  impacts  [expected  completion  first  quarter  2000]. 

Transport;  Transformation;  Release  Prevention 

Lovelace  Respiratory  Research  Institute;  Health  Effects  Institute  (Janet  Benson,  LRRI; 

Maria  Costantini,  HEI) 

Toxicokinetics  of  MTBE  With  and  Without  Gasoline. 

Quantify  uptake,  metabolism,  and  excretion  of  C- 14  labeled  MTBE  alone  and  in  gasoline  over  a 
range  of  concentrations  and  repeated  inhalation  exposures  in  rats  [ongoing  through  1998]. 
Health  Effects 

Metcalf  &  Eddy;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (R.  Claff,  API) 

Characterization  of  Service  Station  Stormwater  Runoff. 

Contractor  to  develop  sampling  plan  to  collect  stormwater  samples  at  several  retail  marketing 
facilities;  samples  to  be  analyzed  for  BTEX,  MTBE,  heavy  metals,  and  a  variety  of  other 
parameters  [draft  report  expected  late  1998]. 

Source  Characterization;  Occurrence 


52 


Metropolitan  Water  District  of  Southern  California  (Marshall  Davis) 

Surface  Water  Sampling. 

Sampling  for  MTBE  and  other  gasoline  components  in  drinking  water  reservoirs  used  for 
recreational  boating  [ongoing  through  1998]. 

Occurrence;  Source  Characterization 

Metropolitan  Water  District  of  Southern  California;  U.S.  Geological  Survey;  American 
Water  Works  Association  Research  Foundation  (Bart  Koch,  MWDSC;  Kenan  Ozekin, 
AWWARF) 

Sampling  of  Public  Drinking  Water  Supplies. 

Nation-wide  sampling  of  source  waters  for  community  water  systems  to  characterize  MTBE 
contamination  [expected  completion  1999]. 

Occurrence;  Exposure 

MTBE  Water  Quality  Criteria  Workgroup  (American  Petroleum  Institute)  (Gene  Mancini, 
ARCO;  Alexis  Steen,  API) 

Eco/aquatic  Biota  Toxicity. 

After  literature  search  to  determine  gaps  in  aquatic  toxicity  database,  testing  to  develop  data  set 
to  enable  EPA  to  determine  acute  and  chronic  water  quality  criteria  for  MTBE  in  both  fresh 
water  and  marine  environments  [report  expected  early  1999]. 

Aquatic  Toxicity 

National  Research  Council,  Water  Science  and  Technology  Board  (J.  McDonald) 

Intrinsic  Remediation  Study. 

Assessment  of  current  scientific  understanding  of  natural  processes  that  degrade  or  immobilize 
contaminants,  including  oxygenates,  in  soil  and  groundwater  [report  expected  November  1999]. 
Assessment 

National  Toxicology  Program  (C.W.  Jameson,  NTP-NIEHS) 

Proposed  Listing  of  MTBE. 

NTP  to  review  recommendations  of  review  committees  and  public  comments  regarding 
recommendations  to  the  Secretary,  DHHS,  for  listing  MTBE  in  the  Ninth  Edition  of  the  “Report 
on  Carcinogens;  ”  in  December  1998  review,  NTP  Board  of  Scientific  Counselors  Subcommittee 
voted  against  motion  to  list  MTBE  as  “reasonably  anticipated  to  be  a  human  carcinogen;  ”  final 
public  comment  period  open  until  February  15,  1999  [current  status  available  at: 
http://ntp-server.niehs.nih.gov/]. 

Assessment 

North  Carolina  State  University;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (M.  Hyman,  NCSU;  Bruce 
Bauman,  API) 

Cometabolism  of  Gasoline  Oxygenates  by  Alkane-Utilizing  Bacteria. 

Evaluate  and  quantify  the  role  of  gasoline  alkanes  as  stimulators,  inhibitors,  and  regulators  of 
in  situ  bacterial  cometabolic  biodegradation  of  MTBE  in  soil  and  groundwater  [completion 
third  quarter  2000]. 

Transformation 


53 


North  Carolina  State  University;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (Robert  Borden,  NCSU; 
Bruce  Bauman,  API) 

Monitoring  Degradation:  Sampson  County,  NC. 

Monitoring  degradation  ofMTBE,  BTEX  in  plume  from  UST  in  shallow  coastal  aquifer  in 
Sampson  County,  NC;  leak  discovered  -1986,  remediated  1990  [  see:  Borden,  et  al.,  Intrinsic 
biodegradation  ofMTBE  and  BTEX  in  a  gasoline-contaminated  aquifer.  Water  Resour.  Res.  33: 
1105-1 115,  1997;  Borden  et  al.,  Field  studies  of  BTEX  and  MTBE  intrinsic  bioremediation. 
Washington,  DC:  American  Petroleum  Institute;  Health  and  Environmental  Sciences 
Department.  API  publication  no.  4654,  1997;  final  report  expected  late  1998]. 

Transport;  Transformation 

Oregon  Graduate  Institute;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (Rick  Johnson,  OGI; 

Bruce  Bauman,  API) 

Removal  ofMTBE  from  a  Residual  Gasoline  Source  through  in  situ  Air  Sparging. 

Evaluate  the  effectiveness  of  in  situ  air  sparging  to  remove  MTBE  from  source  zone  and  the 
extent  that  such  treatment  results  in  reduction  in  MTBE  in  groundwater  downgradient  [expected 
completion  early  1999]. 

Contaminant  Removal;  Transport;  Transformation 

Oregon  Graduate  Institute;  Arizona  State  University;  American  Petroleum  Institute 

(H.  Hopkins,  OGI;  Bruce  Bauman,  API) 

Field  Tracer  Experiment  at  Port  Hueneme,  CA. 

Deuterated  MTBE  and  tracer  injected  into  existing  MTBE  plume  followed  by  quarterly  sampling 
for  1-2  years  to  determine  changes  attributable  to  biodegradation  [report  expected  early  1999]. 
Transport;  Transformation 

Rutgers  University;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (R.  Cowan,  RU;  Bruce  Bauman,  API) 

Ex  Situ  Biological  Treatment  of  Water  Containing  MTBE. 

Development  of  technology  to  biologically  treat  MTBE-contaminated  water  ex  situ  [ongoing 
through  2000;  interim  report  expected  late  1998]. 

Contaminant  Removal 

Rutgers  University;  Health  Effects  Institute  (Jun-Yan  Hong,  RU;  Maria  Costantini,  HEI) 

Role  of  Human  Cytochrome  P450  2E1  in  Metabolism  and  Health  Effects  of  Gasoline  Ethers. 
Characterize  metabolism  ofMTBE  and  other  ethers  in  human  liver  microsomes,  with  attention  to 
role  of  CYP  2E1  and  its  genotypic  distribution  in  humans;  compare  ether  metabolism  in  human 
liver  microsomes  versus  rat  and  monkey  nasal  mucosa  microsomes,  to  illuminate  relevance  of 
animal  studies  to  humans  [ongoing  through  1998]. 

Health  Effects 

Shell  Development  Corporation  (J.P.  Salanitro) 

MTBE  Bioremediation. 

Isolation  of  bacterial  culture  capable  of  degrading  MTBE  in  groundwater  [ongoing]. 
Contaminant  Removal;  Transport;  Transformation 


54 


Shell  Development  Corporation  (P.A.  Westbrook) 

Polymer-Solvent  Interactions. 

Prediction  of  polymer/elastomer  response  to  MTBE-gasoline  blends  based  on  response  to  neat 
MTBE  [see:  Westbrook,  P.  A.  and  French,  R.  N.,  Elastomer  swelling  in  mixed  solvents,  Rubber 
Chem.  Technol.  (in  press);  other  reports  in  preparation]. 

Release  Prevention 

State  of  California,  Department  of  Health  Services  (Steven  Book) 

Drinking  Water  Standards  for  MTBE. 

Secondary  and  primary  maximum  contaminant  levels  (MCLs)  for  MTBE  in  drinking  water  to  be 
established  as  required  by  1997  state  law;  proposed  secondary  MCL  of  5  pg/L  to  protect  public 
from  exposure  to  MTBE  in  drinking  water  at  levels  than  can  be  smelled  or  tasted;  proposed 
primary  MCL,  in  preparation,  to  utilize  Public  Health  Goal  developed  by  California  EPA's 
Office  of  Environmental  Health  Hazard  Assessment  (see  separate  listing)  [secondary  MCL 
adopted  November  12,  1998  and  currently  under  review  by  California  OfTice  of  Administrative 
Law;  proposed  primary  MCL  to  be  released  for  public  comment  in  spring  1999]. 

Assessment;  Risk  Management 

State  of  California,  Department  of  Health  Services;  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency- 
Region  9  (Leah  Walker,  CA  DHS;  Judy  Bloom,  EPA-Region  9) 

California  Drinking  Water  Source  Assessment  Program. 

Compile  data  for  MTBE  in  ground/surface  source  water  from  State  Drinking  Water  programs; 
evaluate  vulnerability  to  contamination  and  need  for  further  assessment  [ongoing;  data 
available  at  http://www.dhs.cahwnet.gov/org/ps/ddwem]. 

Occurrence 

State  of  California,  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Environmental  Health 
Hazard  Assessment  (Juliet  Rafol) 

Public  Health  Goal  for  MTBE. 

PHG  for  MTBE  in  drinking  water  intended  to  pose  no  significant  risk  to  individuals,  including 
most  sensitive  subpopulations,  consuming  the  water  daily  over  a  lifetime;  PHG  considered  by 
California  Department  of  Health  Services  in  setting  primary  MCL  for  drinking  water;  draft 
value,  14  pg/L  [report  to  California  Legislature  due  January  1999]. 

Assessment 

State  of  California,  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Environmental  Health 
Hazard  Assessment  (Susan  Luong) 

Proposition  65  Listing. 

Science  Advisory  Board  subcommittees  evaluate  whether  MTBE  meets  criteria  under  California 
Proposition  65  for  listing  as  "known  to  the  state  to  cause  cancer  or  reproductive  toxicity" 
[subcommittees  voted  December  1998  not  to  list  MTBE  as  either  a  carcinogen  or  reproductive 
toxicant]. 

Assessment 


55 


State  of  California  Regional  Water  Quality  Control  Board;  Lawrence  Livermore  National 
Laboratory;  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency-Region  9  (Heidi  Temko,  CA  RWQCB; 
Anne  Happel,  LLNL;  Matt  Small,  EPA) 

California  GIS  Mapping  and  Data  Management  Advisory  Committee 

Provide  Governor's  Office,  legislature,  and  public  entities  with  information  on  vulnerability  of 
Calif  groundwater  to  MTBE;  initiate  state-wide  geographical  information  system  (GIS)  to 
manage  risk  of  MTBE  contamination  to  groundwater  supplies;  investigate  in  two  pilot  project 
areas  the  feasibility  and  appropriateness  of  establishing  a  state-wide  GIS  mapping  system 
[estimated  completion  June  1999;  data  available  at  http://www-erd.llnl.gov/mtbe/] . 

Source  Characterization;  Occurrence 

State  of  California;  University  of  California  (Arturo  Keller,  UC-Santa  Barbara) 

Health  and  Environmental  Assessment  of  MTBE. 

As  mandated  by  California  State  Legislature  appropriating  funds  to  the  University  of  California, 
specific  areas  of  study  and  reports  as  follow:  (1)  Evaluation  of  the  Peer-reviewed  Research 
Literature  on  the  Human  Health,  including  Asthma,  and  Environmental  Effects  of  MTBE,  John 
Froines,  UCLA;  (2)  Integrated  Assessment  of  Sources,  Fate  &  Transport,  Ecological  Risk  and 
Control  Options  for  MTBE  in  Surface  and  Ground  Waters,  with  Particular  Emphasis  on 
Drinking  Water  Supplies,  John  Reuter  and  Daniel  Chang,  UC-D;  (3)  Evaluation  of  Costs  and 
Effectiveness  of  Treatment  Technologies  Applicable  to  Remove  MTBE  and  Other  Gasoline 
Oxygenates  from  Contaminated  Water,  Arturo  Keller,  UCSB;  (4)  Drinking  Water  Treatment  for 
the  Removal  of  Methyl  Tertiary  Butyl  Ether  from  Ground  Waters  and  Surface  Water  Reservoirs, 
Irwin  Suffet,  UCLA;  (5)  Evaluation  of  MTBE  Combustion  Byproducts  in  California 
Reformulated  Gasoline,  Catherine  Koshland,  UCSB;  and  (6)  Risk-based  Decision  Making 
Analysis  of  the  Cost  and  Benefits  of  MTBE  and  Other  Gasoline  Oxygenates,  Arturo  Keller, 

UCSB  [initial  report  released  November,  1998;  final  report  expected  spring  1999;  report 
available  at:  http://tsrtp.ucdavis.edu/mtberpt]. 

Assessment 

State  of  Maine;  Departments  of  Human  Services,  Environmental  Protection,  Conservation 

(Andrew  Smith,  Bureau  of  Health,  Maine  DHS) 

Monitoring  Public  and  Private  Water  Supplies:  Maine. 

Preliminary  results  of  random  statewide  monitoring  for  MTBE  and  other  gasoline  constituents  in 
public  and  private  drinking  water  supplies  statewide  [preliminary  report  available  at 
http://www.state.me.us/dep/blwq/gw.htm;  final  report  expected  early  1999]. 

Occurrence 

University  of  California-Davis  (John  E.  Reuter) 

Sources,  Fate,  and  Transport  of  MTBE  in  Sierra  Nevada  Multiple  Use  Lakes. 

Study  of  sources,  transport,  and  fate  of  MTBE  in  Lake  Tahoe  and  Donner  Lake  [ongoing;  see 
Reuter  et  al.,  Concentrations,  sources,  and  fate  of  the  gasoline  oxygenate  methyl  tert-butyl  ether 
(MTBE)  in  a  multiple-use  lake,  Environ.  Sci.  Techno!  32:  3666-3672,  1998]. 

Transport;  Transformation;  Source  Characterization 


56 


University  of  California-Davis;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (E.  Schroeder,  UC; 

Bruce  Bauman,  API) 

Vapor  Phase  Biodegradation  of  MTBE. 

Evaluate  effectiveness  of  biofilters  in  MTBE  vapor  phase  treatment;  culture  aerobic,  natural 
microbial  consortium  that  rapidly  degrades  MTBE,  uses  MTBE  as  its  sole  carbon  and  energy 
source,  and  has  been  shown  (Eweis  et  al.,  Proceedings  9(Jh  AWMA  Meeting,  Toronto,  June  8-13, 
1997)  to  degrade  MTBE  in  both  liquid  and  gas  streams  (bio filters) ;  assess  impact  of  other 
organics  (e.g.,  aromatics,  alkanes)  on  MTBE  biodegradation;  characterize  potential  limitations 
of  technology  [report  expected  second  quarter  1999], 

Contaminant  Removal 

University  of  California-Davis;  EPA-OSWER-OUST  (Thomas  Young,  UC;  David  Wiley, 
EPA-OSWER-OUST) 

Field  Verification  of  UST  System  Leak  Detection  Performance. 

Evaluate  data  from  UST  closures  and  release  investigations  from  approximately  16  state 
environmental  agencies  to  (1)  quantify  probability  of  types  of  leak  detection  failures  (missed 
detections,  false  alarms)  for  different  methods  and  equipment  brands,  and  (2)  understand 
sources  of  failure  (e.g.,  human  error,  mechanical  failure,  environmental  variables)  [report  and 
database  expected  late  1999]. 

Release  Prevention 

University  of  Houston;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (William  G.  Rixey,  UH;  Bruce  Bauman, 
API) 

Characteristics  of  MTBE  from  a  Gasoline  Source. 

Characterize  dissolution  and  desorption  of  MTBE  from  a  gasoline  source  residually  trapped  in 
soil ;  assess  duration  of  MTBE  in  source  area;  leaching  behavior  evaluated  in  laboratory 
fixed-bed  columns  and  results  modeled  [expected  completion  late  1998]. 

Transport;  Transformation 

University  of  Massachusetts- Amherst;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (Derek  Lovley,  UM; 
Bruce  Bauman,  API) 

Anaerobic  Degradation  of  MTBE,  BTEX,  and  PAHs  in  Petroleum-Contaminated  Aquifers. 
Determine:  1 )  potential  for  ferric  iron  to  serve  as  electron  acceptor  for  anaerobic 
biodegradation  of  MTBE  and  BTEX  in  groundwater  and  rates  associated  with  this  process  in 
variety  of  aquifers;  2)  anaerobic  processes  in  the  source  area  of  fuel  spills;  3)  anaerobic 
biodegradability  of  PAHs  in  groundwater  [report  expected  late  1999]. 

Transport;  Transformation;  Contaminant  Removal 

University  of  Medicine  and  Dentistry  of  New  Jersey  (Clifford  P.  Weisel) 

Modulation  of  Benzene  Metabolism  by  Exposure  to  Environmental  Mixtures 
Evaluate  (1)  metabolism  of  benzene  when  inhaled  by  humans  alone  or  as  part  of  a  mixture  of 
MTBE  or  metals  such  as  iron,  and  (2)  in  vitro  toxicity  of  metabolites  of  mixtures  such  as  benzene 
and  MTBE  [ongoing]. 

Health  Effects 


57 


University  of  Michigan-National  Center  for  Integrated  Bioremediation  (Michael  Barcelona) 
MTBE  Behavior  in  BTEX  Plume. 

Characterize  natural  fate  and  transport  of  dissolved  MTBE/BTEX  under  different  shallow 
groundwater  redox  regimes,  and  effects  of  oxygen-releasing  material;  information  on  the 
evolution  of  microbial  ecology  also  to  be  collected  [expected  completion  fourth  quarter  1999]. 
Transport;  Transformation 

University  of  Nebraska  (H.  Noureddini) 

Remediation  Efficiency  for  ETBE  compared  to  MTBE. 

Comparative  experimental  studies  of  removal  of  ETBE  and  MTBE  from  contaminated  water  by 
air  stripping  and  carbon  adsorption;  literature  review  of  available  ETBE  research  data 
[ongoing;  unpublished  report  available  upon  request]. 

Contaminant  Removal 

University  of  Nevada-Reno  (Glenn  Miller) 

Sampling  for  MTBE  in  Lake  Tahoe. 

Sample  for  MTBE  from  various  depths  and  locations,  including  temperature  and  meteorology 
data;  evaluate  MTBE  and  BTEX  contamination  from  watercraft  [ongoing]. 

Occurrence;  Source  Characterization;  Transport;  Transformation 

University  of  Northern  Iowa;  Exxon  (C.  M.  Horan,  UNI) 

Effect  of  MTBE  on  Microbial  Consortia. 

MTBE  added  to  microbial  consortia  increased  oxygen  consumption,  but  concentrations  up  to 
740  mg/L  inhibited  mineralization  potential  of  hexadecane  up  to  50%;  although  MTBE  can  be 
metabolized  in  environment,  toxicity  may  adversely  affect  overall  biodegradation  of  fuel  HCs 
[ongoing;  report  available  at  http://www.engg.ksu.edu/HSRC/95Proceed/horan.html]. 
Contaminant  Removal;  Transport;  Transformation 

University  of  Notre  Dame;  Amoco  Corporation  (Charles  Kulpa,  UND) 

MTBE  Biodegradation  by  Pure  Cultures. 

Isolation  of  pure  and  mixed  bacterial  strains  capable  of  degrading  MTBE  in  soil  and  water 
[ongoing;  see  Mo  et  al.,  Biodegradation  of  methyl  t-butyl  ether  by  pure  bacterial  cultures, 

Appl.  Microbiol.  Biotechnol.  47:  69-72,  1996]. 

Contaminant  Removal;  Transport;  Transformation 

University  of  Oklahoma;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (Bruce  Bauman,  API) 

Anaerobic  Biodegradation  of  Gasoline  Hydrocarbons  and  Oxygenates. 

Summarize  results  of  previous  research  on  anaerobic  processes  and  continue  to  evaluate 
anaerobic  biodegradation  of  dissolved  hydrocarbons,  whole  gasoline,  and  oxygenates  [drafts  of 
papers  expected  March  1999]. 

Contaminant  Removal 


58 


University  of  Texas- Austin;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (Robert  Mace,  UT;  Bruce 
Bauman,  API) 

Spatial  and  Temporal  Variability  of  MTBE  Plumes  in  Texas 

Characterize  spatial  and  temporal  variation  of  MTBE  plumes  and  their  relation  to  other 
dissolved  hydrocarbons,  the  nature  of  the  release  source,  and  site  hydrogeology  using  existing 
database  of  361  Texas  UST  sites  [expected  completion  fourth  quarter  1998]. 

Transport;  Transformation 

University  of  Washington  (Crispin  H.  Pierce) 

Toxicokinetics  of  Ethyl  Tertiary -butyl  Ether 

Develop  quantitative,  predictive  models  that  account  for  person-  and  gender-specific  factors  that 
influence  ETBE  toxicokinetics,  using  controlled  exposures  to  stable  isotope-labeled  and 
unlabeled  compounds  and  accurate  measurements  of  these  compounds  and  metabolites  in  blood, 
breath,  and  urine  [ongoing]. 

Health  Effects 

University  of  Washington;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (Lee  Newman,  UW;  Bruce  Bauman, 
API) 

Phytoremediation  of  MTBE. 

Evaluate  capabilities  of  selected  plants  to  take  up,  degrade,  or  transpire  MTBE  [expected 
completion  late  1999]. 

Contaminant  Removal 

University  of  Waterloo;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (Doug  Mackay,  UW;  Bruce  Bauman, 
API) 

MTBE  Natural  Attenuation  Field  Research,  Phase  1. 

Identify  suitable  research  site  and  generate  initial  site  characterization  data  to  determine: 

1)  mass  flux  of  MTBE  from  a  release  site  and  its  influence  on  the  size  of  the  resultant  dissolved 
phase  plume;  and  2)  natural  attenuation  processes  that  act  to  limit  the  migration  of  dissolved 
MTBE  at  that  site  [ongoing  through  2000;  interim  reports  expected  annually]. 

Transport;  Transformation 

University  of  Waterloo;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (Jim  Barker,  UW;  Bruce  Bauman,  API) 
Monitoring  Border  Aquifer  Plume. 

Monitoring  of  MTBE,  BTEX,  MeOH,  NaCl  in  experimental  plume  at  Canada  Forces  Base 
Borden,  Ontario;  began  ca.  1988,  tracked  for  16  months,  resumed  in  1996  [expected  completion 
fourth  quarter  1998;  e.g.,  see  Schirmer  and  Barker,  A  study  of  long-term  MTBE  attenuation  in 
the  Borden  Aquifer,  Ontario,  Canada,  Ground  Water  Monit.  Rem.  18:  113-122,  1998]. 

Transport;  Transformation 


59 


University  of  Wurzburg;  Health  Effects  Institute  (Wolfgang  Dekant,  WW;  Maria  Costantini, 
HEI) 

Comparative  Biotransformation  of  MTBE,  ETBE,  TAME,  and  DIPE  in  Rats  and  Humans. 
Compare  relative  excretion  of  ether  metabolites  in  humans  and  rats  exposed  in  vitro  and  in  vivo 
via  inhalation,  with  attention  to  individual  differences  [ongoing  through  1998]. 

Health  Effects 

U.S.  Centers  for  Disease  Control  and  Prevention  (David  L.  Ashley) 

Blood  Levels  of  MTBE  and  TB  A. 

As  part  ofNHANES  IV,  determine  a  reference  range  of  blood  levels  of  MTBE  and  TBA  in 
non-occupationally  exposed  U.S.  residents  and  examine  relationship  of  these  levels  to  local 
MTBE  usage  in  gasoline  and  presence  of  MTBE  in  household  water  samples  [pilot  work  begins 
January  1999;  survey  begins  April  1999]. 

Exposure 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Prevention,  Pesticides,  and  Toxic 
Substances  (Catherine  Roman,  EPA-OPPTS-CCD) 

Proposed  Children's  Health  Test  Rule. 

Toxicity  testing  of  selected  chemicals,  including  MTBE  and  TBA,  with  exposure  potential  for 
children  [draft  proposed  rule  in  preparation;  notice  of  proposed  rule  making  expected  March 
1999  and  final  rule  December  1999]. 

Health  effects 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Research  and  Development  (Thomas  F. 
Speth,  EPA-ORD-NRMRL) 

Cost  Comparison  of  MTBE  Removal  Technologies. 

Evaluation  of  ozone/peroxide  oxidation  and  air  stripping  technologies  for  MTBE  removal;  air 
stripping  to  include  off-gas  control  by  adsorption  and  pilot-scale  experiments  [expected 
completion  2000]. 

Contaminant  Removal 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Research  and  Development  (Fran  Kremer, 
EPA-ORD-NRMRL) 

Natural  Attenuation  of  MTBE  in  Ground  Water  and  Soils. 

Field  and  laboratory  studies  on  UST  sites  impacted  with  MTBE;  preparation  of  technical 
resource  documents  on  natural  biodegradation  of  MTBE  and  associated  HCs  in  ground  water 
and  soils,  and  on  the  potential  for  enhanced  biodegradation  [ongoing]. 

Transport;  Transformation;  Contaminant  Removal 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Research  and  Development  (John  Wilson, 
EPA-ORD-NRMRL) 

Natural  Attenuation  of  MTBE. 

Field  and  laboratory  study  evaluating  the  role  of  natural  attenuation  of  MTBE  in  a  fuel  plume  at 
Elizabeth  City,  NC,  and  other  sites  [ongoing;  report  due  FY2000]. 

Transport;  Transformation 


60 


U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Research  and  Development  (James  Prah, 
EPA-ORD-NHEERL) 

Human  Pharmacokinetics  of  MTBE. 

Pharmacokinetics  study  of  human  volunteers  given  multiple  acute  exposures  to  MTBE  by 
inhalation,  oral,  and  dermal  routes  [scheduled  completion  1999]. 

Health  Effects 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Research  and  Development  (Jim  Weaver, 
EPA-ORD-NERL) 

Simulation  of  Multicomponent  Gasoline  Dissolution. 

Aquifer  transport,  leaching,  and  chemical  property  estimation  models  used  to  study 
multicomponent  dissolution  from  MTBE-  and  non  MTBE-gasolines,  effects  of  MTBE  on 
dissolution  of  BTEX,  and  minimum  number  of  components  required  to  simulate  dissolution  of  a 
given  gasoline  component  [report  expected  May  1999]. 

Transport;  Transformation 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Research  and  Development  (Peter  Gabele, 
EPA-ORD-NERL) 

Marine  Engine  Emissions  Characterization. 

Characterize  emissions  in  air  and  water  from  small  outboard  (<15hp)  engines  using  12%-vol 
MTBE-gasoline  [expected  completion  fall  1999]. 

Source  Characterization 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Research  and  Development;  IT 
Corporation  (Anthony  Tafuri,  EPA-ORD-NRML) 

Technologies  for  Remediating  Petroleum-contaminated  Soil. 

Studies  (bench  and  pilot  held)  of  hydrogen  peroxide  with  Fenton ’s  reagent  to  oxidize  MTBE  in 
soil  and  water;  identify  intermediate  products  that  may  develop  in  treatment  process  and 
determine  operational  parameters  (Chen  et  al.,  Chemical  oxidation  treatment  of  petroleum 
contaminated  soil  using  Fenton’s  reagent,  J.  Environ.  Sci.  and  Health,  A33:  987-1008,  1998) 
[ongoing]. 

Contaminant  Removal 

U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Research  and  Development;  New  York 
State  Department  of  Environmental  Conservation  (Jim  Weaver,  EPA-ORD-NERL;  Joseph 
Haas,  NY  DEC) 

Modeling  Plume:  East  Patchogue  and  Uniondale. 

3-D  monitoring  and  modeling  of  MTBE,  BTEX  in  contaminant  plume  from  UST  site  on  Long 
Island,  NY,  a  demonstration  site  for  EPA  Hydrocarbon  Spill  Screening  Model  (HSSM) 

[J.  Weaver,  Transport  and  transformation  of  BTEX  and  MTBE  in  a  sand  aquifer,  Ground  Water 
Monit.  Remed.  (accepted);  additional  report  in  preparation]. 

Transport;  Transformation 


61 


U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Office  of  Research  and  Development;  U.S. 
Environmental  Protection  Agency-Region  9  (Lance  Wallace,  EPA-ORD-NERL;  Henry  Lee, 
EPA-Region  9) 

MTBE  Exposure  During  Showering. 

Personal  exposure  measurements  of  MTBE  in  shower  microenvironment  [expected  to  begin 
1999]. 

Exposure 

U.S.  Geological  Survey;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (Art  Baehr,  USGS;  H.  Hopkins,  API) 
Modeling  Groundwater  Impacts  from  MTBE  Vadose  Zone  Transport. 

Determine  minimum  mass  source  in  vadose  zone  to  create  a  persistent  oxygenate  impact  to 
groundwater  [begin  December  1998;  expected  completion  second  quarter  1999]. 

Occurrence;  Source  Characterization 

U.S.  Geological  Survey-NAWQA  (John  Zogorski,  Wayne  Lapham,  USGS) 

National  Retrospective  Analyses:  Selected  Areas. 

Retrospective  analysis  ofVOC  and  limited  MTBE  data  in  about  20  U.S.  areas:  CA,  ID,  I  A,  NJ, 
NY,  TX,  WI;  several  other  areas  available  for  further  analyses;  additional  data  being  sought  for 
1998-1999  [ongoing  through  2000;  findings  published  yearly 
(see  http://wwwsd.cr.usgs.gov/nawqa/pubs/) ]. 

Occurrence;  Source  Characterization 

U.S.  Geological  Survey-NAWQA  (Mary  Ann  Thomas,  USGS) 

Groundwater  Monitoring:  Michigan. 

Characterization  of  groundwater  in  residential  suburban  Detroit  area  1996-1998;  preliminary 
data  analysis  did  not  indicate  presence  of  MTBE  or  TBA  [data  release  expected  mid- 1999 
(see  http://wwwsd.cr.usgs.gov/nawqa/pubs/) ]. 

Occurrence;  Source  Characterization 

U.S.  Geological  Survey-NAWQA  (Arthur  Baehr,  Mark  Ayers,  USGS) 

Glassboro  Comprehensive  Urban  Study. 

Monitor  MTBE,  VOCs  in  air,  precipitation,  surface  water,  unsaturated  zone,  ground  water  in 
Glassboro,  NJ  area  aquifer  [ongoing  1 996-2000;  project  description  published;  shallow 
groundwater  VOC  data  published;  research  published  periodically 
(see  http://wwwsd.cr.usgs.gov/nawqa/pubs/) ]. 

Transport;  Transformation;  Source  Characterization 

U.S.  Geological  Survey-NAWQA  (John  Zogorski,  USGS) 

Monitoring  Urban  Storm  Water:  Selected  Areas. 

Monitor  urban  storm  water  for  VOCs,  including  MTBE,  in  16  U.S.  metropolitan  areas:  Boise, 
Phoenix,  Colorado  Springs,  Denver,  San  Antonio,  Dallas,  Omaha,  Independence,  Little  Rock, 
Davenport,  Baton  Rouge,  Mobile,  Huntsville,  Birmingham,  Montgomery,  Atlanta  [reports 
available  upon  request  (see  http://wwwsd.cr.usgs.gov/nawqa/pubs/)]. 

Occurrence;  Source  Characterization 


62 


U.S.  Geological  Survey-NAWQA;  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency-Office  of  Water 

(Steve  Grady,  USGS;  Mike  Osinski,  EPA-OW) 

Retrospective  Analyses:  New  England-Mid  Atlantic. 

Retrospective  data  analysis  for  MTBE  and  other  VOCs  in  ground/drinking  water  in  12  southern 
New  England  and  Mid-Atlantic  states;  focus  primarily  on  ambient  ground  water  and  PWS 
drinking  water  data  for  MTBE  and  other  VOCs,  with  one  objective  to  create  protocol  for  state 
drinking  water  quality  data  collection  [design  completed;  retrospective  approximately  50% 
complete;  report  expected  late  1999  (see  http://wwwsd.cr.usgs.gov/nawqa/pubsf)]. 

Occurrence;  Source  Characterization 

U.S.  Geological  Survey-NAWQA;  Oregon  Graduate  Institute  (John  Zogorski,  USGS; 

Jim  Pankow,  Wes  Jarrell,  OGI) 

Plant  Transpiration. 

Measurement  of  plant  transpiration  on  VOC  levels  including  MTBE  [report  and  journal  article 
expected  1999  (see  http://wwwsd.cr.usgs.gov/nawqa/pubs/)]. 

Transport;  Transformation 

U.S.  Geological  Survey-NAWQA;  Oregon  Graduate  Institute;  University  of  Washington 

(John  Zogorski,  USGS;  Jim  Pankow,  OGI;  Bill  Asher) 

VOC  Behavior  and  Fate. 

Modeling  the  behavior  and  fate  of  VOCs  including  MTBE  in  PWS  reservoirs  [journal  article  and 
report  expected  1999  (see  http://wwwsd.cr.usgs.gov/nawqa/pubs/)]. 

Transport;  Transformation 

U.S.  Geological  Survey-NAWQA  (Paul  Squillace,  Mike  Moran,  John  Zogorski,  USGS) 
Occurrence  of  MTBE  and  Other  VOCs  in  Ambient  Groundwater. 

VOCs  in  groundwater  of  the  United  States,  1985-1995  [ journal  article  in  preparation 
(see  http://wwwsd.cr.usgs.gov/nawqa/pubs/) ]. 

Occurrence 

U.S.  Geological  Survey-NAWQA;  Oregon  Graduate  Institute  (John  Zogorski,  USGS;  Jim 
Pankow,  Rick  Johnson,  OGI) 

Modeling  MTBE  Transport  to  a  Production  Well. 

Preliminary  evaluation  of  factors  that  influence  the  capture  of  MTBE  UST  release  by  a 
hypothetical  production  well  [article  expected  early  1999 
(see  http://wwwsd.  cr.  usgs.gov/nawqa/pubs/) ]. 

Transport;  Transformation 

U.S.  Geological  Survey-NAWQA;  Oregon  Graduate  Institute  (John  Zogorski,  USGS; 

Jim  Pankow,  OGI) 

VOC  Analytic  Methods:  Air. 

Analytic  methods  developed  for  VOCs,  including  MTBE,  TAME,  DIPE,  and  ETBE,  in  ambient 
air  [article  to  appear  in  Analytical  Chemistry,  late  1998  or  early  1999 
(see  http://wwwsd. cr.  usgs.gov/nawqa/pubs/)]. 

Occurrence  (Analytic  Methods) 


63 


U.S.  Geological  Survey;  Oregon  Graduate  Institute  (John  Zogorski,  USGS;  James  Pankow, 
OGI) 

Degradation  Assessment. 

Determine  degradation  pathways,  by-products,  kinetics,  and  their  relationship  to  varied 
geological  environments  for  MTBE,  TBA,  TBF,  TAME,  TAA,  and  acetone  based  on  monitoring 
data  from  several  plumes  and  lab  studies  [field  monitoring  and  lab  studies  continuing  in  1998; 
project  findings  and  lab  analytical  method  published 
(see  http://wwwsd.cr.usgs.gov/nawqa/pubs/) ]. 

Transport;  Transformation 

U.S.  Geological  Survey;  Oregon  Graduate  Institute  (John  Zogorski,  USGS;  James  Pankow, 
OGI) 

Modeling  Non-point  Source  Inputs. 

Modeling  of  atmospheric  and  land-based  non-point  source  inputs  of  MTBE  to  ground  water 
systems  (see  also  USGS:  Glassboro  comprehensive  urban  study)  [ongoing  1 996-2000;  research 
published  periodically  (see  http://wwwsd.cr.usgs.gov/nawqa/pubs/)]. 

Source  Characterization;  Occurrence;  Transport;  Transformation 

U.S.  Geological  Survey-Toxics  Hydrology  Program  (Herb  Buxton,  John  Zogorski, 

J.  Landmeyer) 

Monitoring  Plume:  Beaufort,  SC. 

Ongoing  monitoring  of  shallow  ground  water  and  unsaturated  zone  above  the  ground  water 
plume  for  VOCs,  including  MTBE,  BTEX,  TBA,  for  movement  and  degradation  since  1991  at 
Laurel  Bay  UST  (Beaufort  Marine  Corps  Air  Station,  SC);  remediated  1993;  flow  and 
contaminant  modeling;  long-term  hydrology  study  site  [ongoing;  project  scope  and  findings 
through  1997 published  (see  http://wwwsd.cr.usgs.gov/nawqa/pubs/)]. 

Transport;  Transformation 

U.S.  Geological  Survey  (Carol  Boughton) 

Survey  of  Man-Made  Organic  Compounds  in  Lake  Tahoe  and  Selected  Tributaries, 
Califomia-Nevada  1998-99. 

Sample  multiple  sites  on  Lake  Tahoe  and  major  tributaries  for  the  presence  of  organochlorine, 
semi-volatile  industrial,  synthetic-hydrocarbon  compounds  (including  MTBE)  and  soluble 
pesticides  [results  expected  to  be  published  in  1999 
(see  http://wwwsd.cr.usgs.gov/nawqa/pubs/) ]. 

Occurrence 

Western  States  Petroleum  Association  (Jeff  Sickenger) 

Well  Purging  Study:  California. 

Comparison  of  MTBE,  BTEX,  and  TPH-g  in  groundwater  samples  before  and  after  purging  at 
CA  wells:  concentrations  higher  before  than  after  purging,  variability  of  before/after 
concentrations  comparable  to  variability  between  purging  methods;  high  variability  in  small 
population  of  sites  due  to  site-specific  conditions  [completed  (Final  Report:  the  California 
groundwater  purging  study  for  petroleum  hydrocarbons,  SECOR  International,  Inc.,  1996; 
Lundegard  et  al.,  Net  benefit  of  well  purging  reevaluated,  Environ.  Geosci.  4:  111-118,  1997; 


64 


see  http://www.secor.com/purge/purge.htm)  ;  however,  also  see:  Flood,  F.,  New  study  advocates 
no  purging  prior  to  sampling,  http://www.grac.org/spring97/article2.htm]. 

Contaminant  Removal;  Transport;  Transformation 

Woodward-Clyde;  American  Petroleum  Institute  (R.  Claff,  API) 

Occurrence,  Treatment,  and  Impact  of  Oxygenates  in  Effluents. 

Characterize  and  quantify  presence  of  oxygenates  in  petroleum  marketing  terminal  and  refinery 
wastewater  streams  and  treatment  processes;  identify  and  quantify  fate  of  oxygenates  in  terminal 
and  refinery  wastewater  treatment  facilities  [expected  completion  late  1999]. 

Occurrence;  Transport;  Transformation 

World  Health  Organization  -  IPCS  (Edward  Smith,  WHO  Geneva) 

Environmental  Health  Criteria  for  MTBE. 

Critical  review  of  effects  of  MTBE  on  human  health  and  the  environment  [in  press]. 

Assessment 


☆u.s 


.  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE: 


1999  -750-101/00026 


65 


■- 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  006  564  004  1 


m 

"D 

> 

o5 

o 

o 

56 

i 

CD 

oo 

o 

oo 


Om  Q. 
7*  CD 
*<  — 
-  CD 
o  c 
"»  w 
■0  5' 

5-  CD 
<  w 
CD  C/> 

CD 


C 

w 

(D 


o  o 
5‘  ® 
Q.  2. 

§  - 

2  o 


m 
3 
< 
— * 
o 

3 

3 

00  CD 
3 

5T 


O 

I 

-p- 

oi 

ro 

o> 


m  c 

3  3 
<  <— ► 
=T  CD 
O  Q. 

1  % 

CD  P 

2  CD 
5[  CO 

“0 

O 

CD 

O 

o' 

3 


DO  > 

CD  CQ 

in  cd 

CD  3 
CD  O 

3  ^ 


3 

O 

3 

CD 

o' 

3 


*X/VM^/MVV  fM%-  V 

z  -  *  _  x  v  -■  e-~Si — Q  PdJ>  o 

rr.  -  <k,7W  *  "V  Vk  O 

I"  'O  ^  ■%  O—  9^*.  jA 

x4  <s  <r,  ♦Jyv«'.sP\  0- 

,0’  » 


s^r  '  V'T.T^V"  V  >« . 

r&',*tta4  %>  c°*a**\ 


^co«o,  \  J  *  •  '  <>  ».,V"  *  l"  /6o»  =  ,  \  '  *  •  ‘  4>  *.  u.,V°  ‘  O* 


^  %  ° 


^^zmsF  •*  v>»  -  *$r  <* 


.  v  -  -  'O 

>v  *y  • *  ./.  V  V  ** 

, \/ » Jilt  W 

1  IIP/  4?\  #;  ^v%  °.  HI 

?v  u'.v° *  i*  d^‘°“o**\ "  *  *  4^»*  i,,*v°  *  i*  o4< 

^ov 


vN 


v< 


*•  <C^7/i\C&  *y  •>  <X»  *  TcJUYCCS*  > 

*  ❖  o  *V  *  o_^ 

vf» .  A*  *  *  <^>  A  t 

'  <4  ,A  /r  •■!•  *  VX>  .«NV  a>  tf'AS 


v^o* 


«i^o  <*5°*  *■« 

.  ofv*”  *:>°?>  *  * 

*,  /«<§&'.  \  ysjsMti** 


oWlt'^  *  4^^  °o  Wmf  *  4^'%  *  101 

eV°  *  ^*0**  “•%> *  ‘*V^°MO«^o^  * 

:V/#  V4  :®Vf#  ^ 

'«  ao.  *  ^Li§  *  .ov.  a.o.  *  *  <0 


v  ^  ’JOB’;  ^O, 

V.X  t.  -v*~  -  *  <1  *A^*»**  A*  Qrs  \ 

oA'-M  •  /,,.  ,  V  '"“O’  A. 

<1  V*  _AV  „  S  ^/v.  •>■ .  <  «.  .  V  > 

o 


ld-To-Please* 

-9  B 5349 

TER,  INDIANA  46962 


’%C»  =  .,V*“>, 


,,.  o/* 


library  of  congress 


