area  handbook  series 

Philippines 

country  study 


Philippines 

a  country  study 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Ronald  E.  Dolan 
Research  Completed 
June  1991 


On  the  cover:  The  presence  of  the  Church  of  the  Holy  Child 
in  the  center  of  metropolitan  Manila  symbolizes  the  constancy 
of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  in  a  changing  Philippines. 


Fourth  Edition,  First  Printing,  1993. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Philippines  :  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library 
of  Congress  ;  edited  by  Ronald  E.  Dolan.  —  4th  ed. 

p.    cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294)  (DA 
pam  ;  550-72) 

"Supersedes  the  1983  edition  of  Philippines:  a  country  study, 
edited  by  Frederica  M.  Bunge" — T.p.  verso. 
"Research  completed  June  1991." 

Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp.  317-359)  and  index. 
ISBN  0-8444-0748-8 

1.  Philippines.  L  Dolan,  Ronald  E.,  1939-  .  II.  Library  of 
Congress.  Federal  Research  Division.  III.  Series.  IV.  Series:  DA 
pam  ;  550-72. 

DS655.P598  1993  92-39812 
959.9— dc20  CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-72 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared  by 
the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress  under 
the  Country  Studies/ Area  Handbook  Program  sponsored  by  the 
Department  of  the  Army.  The  last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other 
published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


in 


Acknowledgments 


This  edition  supersedes  the  1983  edition  of  Philippines:  A  Coun- 
try Study,  edited  by  Frederica  M.  Bunge.  The  authors  wish  to  ac- 
knowledge their  use  and  adaptation  of  information  from  that  book 
in  the  preparation  of  this  edition. 

Various  members  of  the  staff  of  the  Federal  Research  Division 
of  the  Library  of  Congress  assisted  in  the  preparation  of  the  book. 
Andrea  M.  Savada  and  Sandra  W.  Meditz  made  many  helpful  sug- 
gestions during  their  review  of  the  book.  Robert  L.  Worden  also 
reviewed  parts  of  the  book  and  made  numerous  suggestions  and 
points  of  clarification.  Timothy  Merrill  reviewed  the  maps  and  geo- 
graphical and  telecommunications  references  in  the  book;  David 
P.  Cabitto  prepared  the  artwork  of  the  cover  illustration  and  coor- 
dinated production  of  all  maps  and  figures;  Marilyn  L.  Majeska 
managed  editing  and  production  of  the  book;  Andrea  T.  Merrill 
provided  valuable  assistance  with  tables  and  figures;  Alberta  J.  King 
provided  research  and  word  processing  assistance  on  parts  of  the 
book;  and  Barbara  Edgerton  and  Izella  Watson  performed  final 
word  processing  for  the  completed  manuscript. 

The  editor  owes  a  special  debt  of  gratitude  to  the  late  Professor 
Charles  W.  Lindsey,  who  despite  serious  illness  continued  to  pro- 
vide valuable  advice  and  assistance  in  the  editing  of  his  chapter 
on  the  Philippine  economy.  Thanks  also  go  to  Ralph  K.  Benesch, 
who  oversees  the  Country  Studies — Area  Handbook  Program  for 
the  Department  of  the  Army,  and  James  Nach  of  the  Department 
of  State,  who  reviewed  the  text  and  also  offered  suggestions  and 
points  of  clarification.  In  addition,  the  editor  wishes  to  thank  vari- 
ous members  of  the  staff  of  the  Embassy  of  the  Philippines,  Wash- 
ington, especially  Colonel  Roberto  P.  Santiago  and  MacArthur 
Corsino.  None  of  these  individuals  is  in  any  way  responsible  for 
the  final  version  of  the  book,  however. 

Others  who  contributed  to  the  publication  of  this  book  were  Har- 
riett R.  Blood  and  the  firm  of  Greenhorne  and  O'Mara,  who  as- 
sisted in  the  preparation  of  maps  and  charts;  Deanna  D'Errico, 
who  edited  the  individual  chapters;  Catherine  Schwartzstein,  who 
performed  the  final  prepublication  review;  Joan  C.  Cook,  who  pre- 
pared the  index;  and  Linda  Peterson  and  Malinda  B.  Neale  of  the 
Library  of  Congress  Composing  Unit,  who  prepared  camera-ready 
copy  under  the  direction  of  Peggy  Pixley.  Finally,  the  authors  are 
especially  grateful  to  individuals  and  organizations  who  donated 
photographs.  They  are  acknowledged  in  the  illustration  captions. 


v 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword    iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface    xiii 

Country  Profile     XV 

Introduction     xxiii 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting    1 

Donald  M.  Seekins 

EARLY  HISTORY   4 

THE  EARLY  SPANISH  PERIOD,  1521-1762    5 

THE  DECLINE  OF  SPANISH  RULE,  1762-1898   ,  8 

Trade  with  Europe  and  America   9 

Chinese  and  Chinese  Mestizos    11 

The  Friarocracy   12 

The  Development  of  a  National  Consciousness   15 

Jose  Rizal  and  the  Propaganda  Movement    17 

The  Katipunan    20 

The  1896  Uprising  and  Rizal' s  Execution   20 

SPANISH-AMERICAN  WAR  AND  PHILIPPINE 

RESISTANCE   22 

Outbreak  of  War,  1898    22 

The  Malolos  Constitution  and  the  Treaty  of  Paris    ...  24 

War  of  Resistance    26 

THE  FIRST  PHASE  OF  UNITED  STATES  RULE, 

1898-1935    27 

A  Collaborative  Philippine  Leadership    29 

The  Jones  Act   32 

Economic  and  Social  Developments    34 

THE  COMMONWEALTH  AND  THE  JAPANESE 

OCCUPATION   38 

Commonwealth  Politics,  1935-41    38 

World  War  II,  1941-45    39 

INDEPENDENCE  AND  CONSTITUTIONAL 

GOVERNMENT,  1945-72    41 

Economic  Relations  with  the  United  States 

after  Independence   43 


vii 


Security  Agreements    44 

The  Huk  Rebellion    45 

The  Magsaysay,  Garcia,  and  Macapagal 

Administrations,  1953-65    47 

Marcos  and  the  Road  to  Martial  Law, 

1965-72    49 

Proclamation  1081  and  Martial  Law   52 

From  Aquino's  Assassination  to  People's 

Power   56 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment  ....  65 

Chester  L.  Hunt 

PHYSICAL  SETTING    68 

THE  CLIMATE   69 

POPULATION    70 

Population  Growth    70 

Migration   70 

Population  Control    74 

ETHNICITY,  REGIONALISM,  AND  LANGUAGE    75 

Historical  Development  of  Ethnic 

Identities    75 

Language  Diversity  and  Uniformity    77 

The  Lowland  Christian  Population    80 

Muslim  Filipinos    81 

Upland  Tribal  Groups   84 

The  Chinese    86 

SOCIAL  VALUES  AND  ORGANIZATION   88 

RURAL  SOCIAL  PATTERNS    91 

URBAN  SOCIAL  PATTERNS    94 

THE  ROLE  AND  STATUS  OF  THE  FILIPINA    96 

RELIGIOUS  LIFE    98 

Historical  Background    99 

Roman  Catholicism   100 

Indigenous  Christian  Churches    102 

Protestantism   103 

Islam    105 

Ecumenical  Developments    106 

Church  and  State    107 

EDUCATION   108 

Historical  Background    109 

Education  in  the  Modern  Period   109 

HEALTH  AND  LIVING  STANDARDS    112 


vm 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy    117 

Charles  W.  Lindsey 

POLITICAL  ECONOMY  OF  DEVELOPMENT    120 

Economic  Development  until  1970    120 

Martial  Law  and  Its  Aftermath,  1972-86    122 

The  Aquino  Government    124 

ECONOMIC  PLANNING  AND  POLICY    128 

Development  Planning    128 

Fiscal  Policy    130 

Monetary  Policy    132 

Privatization    135 

AGRICULTURE,  FORESTRY,  AND  FISHING    135 

Agricultural  Geography    135 

Agricultural  Production  and  Government 

Policy   136 

Rice  and  the  Green  Revolution   139 

Coconut  Industry    140 

Sugar   143 

Land  Tenancy  and  Land  Reform    147 

Livestock    151 

Forestry    151 

Fishing    153 

INDUSTRY    154 

Manufacturing   154 

Mining    155 

Energy   157 

THE  SERVICE  SECTOR    158 

Finance   158 

Transportation   161 

Telecommunications  and  Postal  Services   165 

Tourism   165 

EMPLOYMENT  AND  LABOR  RELATIONS   166 

Labor  Force  and  Employment   166 

Labor  Relations   168 

ECONOMIC  WELFARE    171 

Extent  of  Poverty    171 

Causes  of  Poverty    172 

INTERNATIONAL  ECONOMIC  RELATIONS    173 

International  Trade    173 

Foreign  Investment    177 

External  Debt    179 


ix 


Development  Assistance   184 

Political  Economy  of  United  States  Military  Bases    ...  185 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics   189 

Ross  Marlay 

GOVERNMENT  STRUCTURE    193 

Constitutional  Framework    193 

National  Government    198 

Local  Government   206 

POLITICS   212 

The  Inheritance  from  Marcos    212 

The  Rise  of  Corazon  Aquino    214 

Political  Parties    218 

Voting  and  Elections    222 

The  Return  of  Old-Style  Politics  in  the 

Countryside    224 

Church-State  Relations    226 

Civil-Military  Relations   227 

The  Media    229 

Unsolved  Political  Problems    230 

FOREIGN  AFFAIRS    232 

Filipino  Nationalism    232 

Relations  with  the  United  States    233 

Relations  with  Asian  Neighbors    235 

Relations  with  the  Soviet  Union    238 

Relations  with  the  Middle  East    239 

Chapter  5.  National  Security    241 

Allen  G.  Miller 

THE  ARMED  FORCES  IN  NATIONAL  LIFE    245 

Historical  Background    245 

External  Defense    248 

Political  Role   249 

The  Counterinsurgency  Campaign    252 

Recruitment  and  Personnel    256 

Defense  Spending  and  Industry   258 

THE  STRUCTURE  OF  THE  ARMED  FORCES    260 

Organization  and  Training    261 

Uniforms,  Ranks,  and  Insignia    272 

Salary  and  Benefits    272 

Foreign  Military  Relations    273 

INTELLIGENCE  AND  SECURITY  AGENCIES    277 

PUBLIC  ORDER  AND  INTERNAL  SECURITY    279 

The  Communist  Insurgency    280 


x 


The  Moro  Insurgency    290 

Crime    293 

Law  Enforcement    295 

Penal  Law    297 

Criminal  Procedure    298 

The  Correctional  System   299 

Appendix.  Tables    303 

Bibliography    317 

Glossary    361 

Index   365 

List  of  Figures 

1  Philippines  in  Its  Asian  Setting,  1991   xxii 

2  Topography  and  Drainage    72 

3  Principal  Ethnolinguistic  Groups,  1991    78 

4  Estimated  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1988    114 

5  Major  Agricultural  Activity,  1991    142 

6  Major  Industrial  Activity,  1988    156 

7  Transportation  System,  1991    164 

8  Structure  of  the  National  Government,  1991    200 

9  Regions  and  Provinces,  1990    210 

10  Organization  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines 

(AFP),  1989    264 

11  Officer  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1989    274 

12  Enlisted  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1989    275 

13  Areas  of  Insurgent  Organization  and  Activity,  1989    286 


xi 


Preface 


This  edition  is  a  revision  of  the  1983  Philippines:  A  Country  Study. 
The  new  edition  recounts  events  in  the  Philippines  since  the  ouster 
of  President  Ferdinand  Marcos,  the  restoration  of  democracy,  and 
the  installation  of  President  Corazon  Aquino  in  February  1986, 

Like  its  predecessor,  this  study  is  an  effort  to  present  an  objec- 
tive and  concise  account  of  the  major  social,  economic,  political, 
and  national  security  concerns  of  the  Philippines  in  the  1990s,  us- 
ing a  historical  framework.  Sources  of  information  include  schol- 
arly books,  official  reports  from  government  and  international 
organizations,  and  foreign  and  domestic  newspapers  and  periodi- 
cals. Brief  commentary  on  some  of  the  more  useful  and  readily 
accessible  sources  appears  at  the  end  of  each  chapter.  Full  refer- 
ences to  these  and  other  sources  used  by  the  authors  are  listed  in 
the  Bibliography. 

The  authors  have  limited  the  use  of  foreign  and  technical  terms, 
which  are  defined  when  they  first  appear.  Readers  are  also  referred 
to  the  Glossary  in  the  back  of  the  book.  The  authors  have  used 
the  place-names  established  by  the  United  States  Board  on  Geo- 
graphic Names.  Pilipino  personal  and  place-names  and  terminol- 
ogy include  the  tilde.  Names  and  terminology  from  the  Spanish 
colonial  period  include  accented  vowels  in  addition  to  the  tilde. 
Measurements  are  given  in  the  metric  system;  a  conversion  table 
is  provided  to  assist  readers  unfamiliar  with  metric  measurements 
(see  table  1,  Appendix). 

The  body  of  the  text  reflects  information  available  as  of  June 
1991.  Certain  other  portions  of  the  text,  however,  have  been  up- 
dated. The  Introduction  discusses  significant  events  that  have  oc- 
curred since  the  completion  of  research,  and  the  Country  Profile 
includes  updated  information  as  available. 


xiii 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republic  of  the  Philippines 
Short  Form:  Philippines 
Term  for  Citizens:  Filipinos 
Capital:  Manila 

Date  of  Independence:  Attained  full  independence  from  United 
States  July  4,  1946. 

NOTE — The  Country  Profile  contains  updated  information  as  available. 


xv 


Geography 

Location  and  Size:  Archipelago  off  coast  of  Southeast  Asia,  total 
300,000  square  kilometers,  land  area  296,170  square  kilometers. 

Topography:  Archipelago  of  7,100  islands:  Luzon,  Mindanao, 
Palawan,  and  numerous  smaller  islands,  all  prone  to  earthquakes. 
Largely  mountainous  terrain,  creating  narrow  coastal  plains  and 
interior  valleys  and  plains.  Major  plains  include  those  of  Central 
Luzon,  northeastern  Cagayan  Valley,  and  Agusan  Basin  in  far 
south.  Numerous  dormant  and  active  volcanos,  notably  Mount 
Pinatubo  in  Central  Luzon.  Highest  point  Mount  Apo  (2,954 
meters). 

Climate:  Tropical  marine;  northeast  monsoon  (December  to  Febru- 
ary), southwest  monsoon  (May  to  October).  Mean  annual  sea-level 
temperatures  rarely  fall  below  27 °C.  Frequent  typhoons. 

Society 

Population:  66,117,284  in  July  1990;  average  population  density 
220  persons  per  square  kilometer;  annual  growth  rate  2.2  percent; 
birth  rate  29  per  1,000  (in  1991);  death  rate  7  per  1,000  (in  1991). 

Ethnic  Groups:  91.5  percent  Christian  Malay,  almost  5  percent 
Muslim  Malay,  close  to  1  percent  Chinese,  and  3  percent  other, 
mainly  upland  tribal  groups. 

Language:  Pilipino  (based  on  Tagalog)  and  English  (official  lan- 
guages). Eleven  languages  and  eighty-seven  dialects  indigenous  to 
archipelago. 

Religion:  In  1989  approximately  82  percent  Roman  Catholic,  ap- 
proximately 9  percent  associated  with  Iglesia  ni  Kristo  and  vari- 
ous Protestant  denominations,  5  percent  Muslim,  remainder 
Buddhist,  Taoist,  or  other  religions. 

Education:  In  1989  six  years  of  compulsory,  free  elementary  edu- 
cation provided  to  approximately  15  million  students,  more  than 
96  percent  of  age-group.  Approximately  290,000  teachers  in  34,000 
elementary  schools.  Beginning  at  age  13,  approximately  4  million 
students,  more  than  55  percent  of  age-group,  enrolled  in  5,500 
secondary  schools  with  approximately  80,000  teachers;  1.6  million 
enrolled  in  1,675  institutions  of  higher  education  with  56,380  in- 
structors. Supervised  by  Department  of  Education,  Culture,  and 
Sports.  Literacy  rate  nearly  90  percent  in  1990. 


xvi 


Health:  In  1990  life  expectancy  69  years  for  women,  63  years  for 
men;  infant  mortality  rate  in  1989  was  51.6  deaths  per  1,000  births. 
Main  health  hazards:  pulmonary,  cardiovascular,  and  gastro- 
intestinal disorders.  Health  care  system  in  1989  adequate  in  ur- 
ban areas,  minimal  in  rural  areas;  33,000  health  professionals, 
including  9,500  physicians,  and  1,700  hospitals  with  85,000  beds 
concentrated  in  urban  areas. 

Economy 

Salient  Features:  Economy  struggling  under  heavy  foreign  debt. 
Approximately  50  percent  of  population  below  poverty  line;  un- 
employment 10.3  percent  in  mid- 1991,  underemployment  estimated 
at  nearly  twice  that  rate.  Large  overseas  work  force.  Rapid  eco- 
nomic growth  of  1970s  slowed  considerably  in  1980s.  Prospects  for 
1990s  uncertain. 

Gross  National  Product  (GNP):  US$41.5  billion  (1990);  per  capita 
GNP  US$668  (1990). 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  Approximately  US$43  billion 
(1990). 

Resources:  Ample  manganese,  nickel,  cobalt,  copper,  gold,  sil- 
ver, and  low-grade  iron  ores  and  coal.  In  late  1980s,  petroleum 
and  natural  gas  production  provided  less  than  half  of  energy  needs. 
Excellent  potential  for  hydroelectric  and  geothermal  energy. 

Industry:  33  percent  of  GNP  and  approximately  15  percent  of  work 
force  in  1990.  Major  industries:  textiles,  food  processing,  chemi- 
cals, pharmaceuticals,  wood  products,  and  electronics  equipment 
assembly. 

Services:  44  percent  of  GNP  and  approximately  40  percent  of  work 
force  in  1990. 

Agriculture,  Forestry,  and  Fishing:  23  percent  of  GNP  and  slight- 
ly more  than  45  percent  of  work  force  in  1990.  Intense  cultivation 
of  diminishing  arable  land,  already  in  short  supply.  Major  crops: 
rice,  corn,  coconuts,  sugarcane,  pineapples,  and  bananas.  Rapid- 
ly declining  timber  resources.  In  1990,  2  million  ton  fish  catch 
provided  more  than  half  of  domestic  protein  consumption. 

Foreign  Trade:  Heavy  importation  of  capital  goods  and  high 
petroleum  prices  along  with  weak  export  growth  resulted  in  large 
trade  deficit  increase. 


xvii 


Exports:  Approximately  US$8.1  billion  in  1989.  Major  products: 
clothing,  electronic  components,  nickel,  coconut  products,  sugar, 
pineapples,  bananas.  Major  partners:  United  States,  European 
Community,  Japan. 

Imports:  Approximately  US$12.1  billion  in  1989.  Major  products: 
fuels,  lubricants,  motor  vehicles,  consumer  goods.  Major  partners: 
United  States,  Japan,  Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia 
and  the  Pacific,  European  Community. 

Balance  of  Payments:  Current  account  deficit  US$1.4  billion  in 
1989. 

Exchange  Rate:  P24.96  =  US$1  (January  1992). 
Fiscal  Year:  Calendar  year. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Maritime:  Extensive  interisland  transportation;  314  private  and 
622  public  seaports,  including  major  ports  at  Manila,  Cebu,  Iloi- 
lo,  Cagayan  de  Oro,  Zamboanga,  and  Davao. 

Railroads:  In  1990  one  main  line  from  Manila  266  kilometers  north 
to  San  Fernando  and  La  Union,  474  kilometers  south  to  Legaspi 
City;  15  kilometers  of  Light  Rail  Transit  system  in  Metro  Manila. 

Roads:  In  1988  some  157,000  kilometers  of  various  type  roads; 
26,000  kilometers  designated  national  (arterial)  roads.  Somewhat 
less  than  50  percent  of  national  roads  all-weather  surfaces. 

Airports:  Total  of  301  airports,  237  usable;  international  facili- 
ties at  Manila  (Ninoy  Aquino)  and  near  Cebu  City  (Mactan). 
Philippine  Airlines  serves  domestic  and  international  routes. 

Telecommunications:  In  1989,  380  radio  stations  and  42  televi- 
sion stations.  In  1990,  872,900  telephones,  mainly  concentrated 
in  Metro  Manila;  4  million  radio  receivers,  6  million  television 
receivers. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  Presidential  form  of  government  based  on  1987  con- 
stitution with  president  and  vice  president  elected  separately  by 
popular  vote.  Bicameral  legislature  (Congress:  Senate — upper 
house;  House  of  Representatives — lower  house).  President  limit- 
ed to  one  six-year  term.  Senators  elected  nationwide  and  limited 


xvni 


to  two  consecutive  six-year  terms,  representatives  elected  from  200 
districts  and  limited  to  three  consecutive  three-year  terms. 

Politics:  Numerous  political  parties.  In  1992  main  parties  included 
PDP-LABAN,  Lakas-NUCD,  Nacionalista  Party,  and  Liberal 
Party. 

Administrative  Divisions:  73  provinces  and  61  chartered  cities. 

Judiciary:  Civil  law  system  heavily  influenced  by  Spanish  and 
Anglo-American  law.  Independent  judiciary  headed  by  Supreme 
Court,  with  anticorruption  Sandiganbayan,  Court  of  Tax  Appeals, 
Intermediate  Appellate  Court,  regional  trial  courts,  and  metropoli- 
tan and  municipal  courts. 

Media:  Freedom  of  expression  constitutional  right;  about  thirty 
daily  newspapers  in  1991. 

Foreign  Affairs:  Diplomatic  relations  with  virtually  all  countries 
of  world.  Member  of  international  organizations,  including  As- 
sociation of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  Asian  Develop- 
ment Bank,  and  United  Nations  and  its  affiliated  agencies. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  Armed  Forces  of  Philippines  (AFP),  with  total  ac- 
tive duty  strength  of  106,500  in  late  1991 :  army  68,000,  navy  23,000 
(including  8,500  marines  and  2,000  coast  guard),  and  air  force 
15,500.  Reserves  totalled  128,000:  army  100,000,  navy  12,000, 
and  air  force  16,000. 

Military  Units:  Six  area  unified  commands,  six  naval  districts, 
and  thirteen  air  force  squadrons. 

Equipment:  Army:  light  tanks,  armored  infantry  fighting  vehi- 
cles, armored  personnel  carriers,  towed  howitzers,  mortars,  and 
recoilless  rifles.  Navy:  frigates,  patrol  and  coastal  combatants,  am- 
phibious ships  and  craft,  auxiliaries,  and  rotary  and  fixed- wing  air- 
craft. Air  Force:  fighters,  reconnaissance  aircraft,  transport  aircraft, 
helicopters,  and  training  aircraft. 

Military  Budget:  Approximately  US$968.4  million  in  FY  1991. 

Foreign  Military  Treaties:  Mutual  Defense  Treaty  Between  the 
Republic  of  the  Philippines  and  the  United  States  of  America  (1951). 

Insurgency:  In  1992  New  People's  Army  (NPA),  military  arm  of 
Communist  Party  of  the  Philippines-Marxist  Leninist  a  formidable 


xix 


threat,  especially  in  Luzon;  Moro  National  Liberation  Front  (MNLF) 
potential  threat  in  the  south. 

Police:  Philippine  Constabulary  combined  with  Integrated  National 
Police  on  January  1,  1991,  to  form  Philippine  National  Police  un- 
der newly  created  Department  of  Interior  and  Local  Government. 


xx 


Figure  1.  Philippines  in  Its  Asian  Setting,  1991 


xxn 


Introduction 


IN  EARLY  SPRING  1992,  as  President  Corazon  C.  Aquino  ap- 
proached the  end  of  her  term,  there  was  no  doubt  that  her  adminis- 
tration had  restored  a  functioning  democratic  system  to  the 
Philippines.  Aquino  herself  had  decided  not  to  seek  another  term 
as  president  even  though  the  one-term  presidency  limitation  im- 
posed by  the  constitution  did  not  apply  to  her.  There  was,  however, 
no  dearth  of  aspirants  for  the  position.  Eight  candidates,  includ- 
ing former  First  Lady  Imelda  Marcos,  who  had  returned  to  the 
Philippines  in  the  fall  of  1991  to  face  embezzlement  charges,  were 
considered  serious  contenders. 

In  1992,  although  its  citizens  had  many  reasons  to  hope  for  a 
brighter  future,  the  Philippines  was  a  nation  beset  with  numerous 
economic  and  political  problems.  These  problems  have  been  com- 
pounded by  a  series  of  natural  disasters:  in  the  wake  of  a  massive 
earthquake  in  northern  Luzon  in  July  1990  and  a  devastating 
typhoon  in  the  central  Visayas  in  November  1990,  the  Mount 
Pinatubo  volcano  in  Central  Luzon  erupted  for  the  first  time  in 
600  years  in  early  June  1991 .  The  eruption  covered  the  surround- 
ing countryside  with  molten  ash  and  caused  serious  damage  to  the 
infrastructure  of  the  region,  including  United  States  military  fa- 
cilities at  Clark  Air  Base  and  Subic  Bay  Naval  Base.  The  econo- 
my, which  had  slowed  to  a  3-percent  gross  national  product 
(GNP — see  Glossary)  growth  in  1990,  fell  by  0.6  percent  in  the 
first  six  months  of  1991  and  by  slightly  more  than  that  in  the  third 
quarter.  Inflation  peaked  at  19.3  percent  in  August  1991,  declined 
to  15.8  percent  by  November,  but  remained  far  above  the 
9.5-percent  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary)  tar- 
get for  the  year.  Investment,  up  19.7  percent  from  January  to  Sep- 
tember 1991,  was  nearly  offset  by  the  inflation  rate,  resulting  in 
only  a  marginal  increase.  Unemployment  was  10.3  percent  in  July 
1991,  nearly  two  percentage  points  higher  than  the  previous  year, 
and  most  economists  estimated  underemployment  to  be  at  least 
twice  that  rate. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  Philippines  was  rather  densely  populat- 
ed (220  persons  per  square  kilometer),  and  the  annual  population 
growth  rate  was  2.5  percent.  Approximately  57  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation was  under  twenty  years  of  age.  Education  was  very  highly 
regarded,  as  it  had  been  throughout  most  of  the  twentieth  centu- 
ry. The  literacy  rate  of  the  total  population  approached  90  per- 
cent, and  compulsory,  free  education  reached  nearly  all  elementary 


xxm 


school-age  children,  even  in  the  remotest  areas.  Health  care  was 
adequate  in  urban  areas,  less  so  in  the  countryside. 

Corazon  Aquino  had  been  swept  into  the  presidency  by  the 
February  1986  "People's  Power"  uprising  amid  high  expectations 
that  she  would  be  able  to  right  all  of  the  wrongs  in  the  Philippine 
body  politic.  It  soon  became  evident,  however,  that  her  goals  were 
essentially  limited  to  restoring  democratic  institutions.  She  renounced 
the  dictatorial  powers  that  she  had  inherited  from  President  Fer- 
dinand E.  Marcos  and  returned  the  Philippines  to  the  rule  of  law, 
replacing  the  Marcos  constitution  with  a  democratic,  progressive 
document  that  won  overwhelming  popular  approval  in  a  nation- 
wide plebiscite,  and  scheduling  national  legislative  and  local  elec- 
tions. The  new  constitution,  ratified  in  1987,  gives  the  Philippines 
a  presidential  system  of  government  similar  to  that  of  the  United 
States.  The  constitution  provides  the  checks  and  balances  of  a  three- 
branch  government.  It  provides  for  the  presidency;  a  two-house 
Congress,  the  Senate  and  the  House  of  Representatives;  and  an 
independent  judiciary  capped  by  the  Supreme  Court.  The  consti- 
tution also  provides  for  regular  elections  and  contains  a  bill  of  rights 
guaranteeing  the  same  political  freedoms  found  in  the  United  States 
Constitution.  Fueled  by  a  constitutionally  guaranteed  free  and  open 
press,  the  freewheeling  political  life  that  had  existed  before  the  mar- 
tial law  period  (1972-81)  soon  resumed.  But  most  of  the  political 
problems,  including  widespread  corruption,  human  rights  abuses, 
and  inequitable  distribution  of  wealth  and  power,  remained. 

Many  of  the  most  intractable  problems  in  the  Philippines  can 
be  traced  to  the  country's  colonial  past.  One  major  source  of  ten- 
sion and  instability  stems  from  the  great  disparity  in  wealth  and 
power  between  the  affluent  upper  social  stratum  and  the  mass  of 
low-income,  often  impoverished,  Filipinos.  In  1988  the  wealthiest 
10  percent  of  the  population  received  nearly  36  percent  of  the  in- 
come, whereas  the  poorest  30  percent  of  the  population  received 
less  than  15  percent  of  the  income. 

The  roots  of  the  disparity  between  the  affluent  and  the  im- 
poverished lie  in  the  structure  established  under  Spanish  rule,  lasting 
from  the  first  settlement  under  Miguel  Lopez  de  Legazpi  in  1565 
to  the  beginning  of  United  States  rule  in  1898.  Friars  of  various 
Roman  Catholic  orders,  acting  as  surrogates  of  the  Spanish  govern- 
ment, had  integrated  the  scattered  peoples  of  the  barangays  (see  Glos- 
sary) into  administrative  entities  and  firmly  implanted  Roman 
Catholicism  among  them  as  the  dominant  faith — except  in  the 
southern  Muslim-dominated  portion  of  the  archipelago.  Over  the 
centuries,  these  orders  acquired  huge  landed  estates  and  became 


xxiv 


wealthy,  sometimes  corrupt,  and  very  powerful.  Eventually,  their 
estates  were  acquired  by  principales  (literally,  principal  ones;  a  term 
for  the  indigenous  local  elite)  and  Chinese  mestizos  (see  Glossary) 
eager  to  take  advantage  of  expanding  opportunities  in  agriculture 
and  commerce.  The  children  of  these  new  entrepreneurs  and  land- 
lords were  provided  education  opportunities  not  available  to  the 
general  populace  and  formed  the  nucleus  of  an  emerging,  largely 
provincially  based,  sociocultural  elite — the  ilustrados  (see  Glos- 
sary)— who  dominated  almost  all  aspects  of  national  life  in  later 
generations. 

The  peasants  revolted  from  time  to  time  against  their  growing 
impoverishment  on  the  landed  estates.  They  were  aided  by  some 
reform-minded  ilustrados,  who  made  persistent  demands  for  better 
treatment  of  the  colony  and  its  eventual  assimilation  with  Spain. 
In  the  late  nineteenth  century,  inflamed  by  various  developments, 
including  the  martyrdom  of  three  Filipino  priests,  a  number  of 
young  ilustrados  took  up  the  nationalist  banner  in  their  writings, 
published  chiefly  in  Europe.  During  the  struggle  for  independence 
against  Spain  (1896-98),  ilustrados  and  peasants  made  common  cause 
against  the  colonial  power,  but  not  before  a  period  of  ilustrado  vacil- 
lation, reflective  of  doubts  about  the  outcome  of  a  confrontation 
that  had  begun  as  a  mass  movement  among  workers  and  peasants 
around  Manila.  Once  committed  to  the  struggle,  however,  the  il- 
ustrados took  over,  becoming  the  articulators  and  leaders  of  the  fight 
for  independence— first  against  Spain,  then  against  the  United 
States. 

Philippine  peasant  guerrilla  forces  contributed  to  the  defeat  of 
the  Spanish.  When  the  Filipinos  were  denied  independence  by  the 
United  States,  they  focused  their  revolutionary  activity  on  United 
States  forces,  holding  out  in  the  hills  for  several  years.  The  ilustra- 
do leadership  chose  to  accommodate  to  the  seemingly  futile  situa- 
tion. Once  again,  ilustrados  found  themselves  in  an  intermediary 
position  as  arbiters  between  the  colonial  power  and  the  rest  of  the 
population.  Ilustrados  responded  eagerly  to  United  States  tutelage 
in  democratic  values  and  process  in  preparation  for  eventual  Philip- 
pine self-rule,  and,  in  return  for  their  allegiance,  United  States 
authorities  began  to  yield  control  to  the  ilustrados.  Although  a  mas- 
sive United  States-sponsored  popular  education  program  exposed 
millions  of  Filipinos  to  the  basic  workings  of  democratic  govern- 
ment, political  leadership  at  the  regional  and  national  levels  be- 
came almost  entirely  the  province  of  families  of  the  sociocultural 
elite.  Even  into  the  1990s,  most  Philippine  political  leaders  belonged 
to  this  group. 


xxv 


Members  of  the  peasantry,  for  their  part,  continued  to  stage  peri- 
odic uprisings  in  protest  against  their  difficult  situation.  As  the  twen- 
tieth century  progressed,  their  standard  of  living  worsened  as  a  result 
of  population  growth,  usury,  the  spread  of  absentee  landlordism, 
and  the  weakening  of  the  traditional  patron-client  bonds  of  recipro- 
cal obligation. 

Whereas  the  economic  legacy  of  colonialism,  including  the  rela- 
tive impoverishment  of  a  very  large  segment  of  the  population,  left 
seeds  of  dissension  in  its  wake,  not  all  of  the  enduring  features  of 
colonial  rule  were  destabilizing  forces.  Improvements  in  education 
and  health  had  done  much  to  enhance  the  quality  of  life.  More 
important  in  the  context  of  stabilizing  influences  was  the  profound 
impact  of  Roman  Catholicism.  The  great  majority  of  the  Filipino 
people  became  Catholic,  and  the  prelates  of  the  church  profound- 
ly influenced  the  society. 

Beginning  with  independence  in  1946,  the  church  was  a  source 
of  stability  to  the  infant  nation.  Throughout  the  period  of  constitu- 
tional government  up  to  the  declaration  of  martial  law  in  1972, 
however,  the  church  remained  outside  of  politics;  its  largely  con- 
servative clergy  was  occupied  almost  exclusively  with  religious 
matters. 

Democracy  functioned  fairly  well  in  the  Philippines  until  1972. 
National  elections  were  held  regularly  under  the  framework  of  the 
1935  constitution,  which  established  checks  and  balances  among 
the  principal  branches  of  government.  Elections  provided  freewheel- 
ing, sometimes  violent,  exchanges  between  two  loosely  structured 
political  parties,  with  one  succeeding  the  other  at  the  apex  of  pow- 
er in  a  remarkably  consistent  cycle  of  alternation.  Ferdinand  Mar- 
cos, first  elected  to  the  presidency  in  1965,  was  reelected  by  a  large 
margin  in  1969,  the  first  president  since  independence  to  be  elect- 
ed to  a  second  term. 

Discontent  rooted  in  economic  disparity  and  religious  differences 
grew  in  the  late  1960s.  The  New  People's  Army  (NPA),  a  guerril- 
la force  formed  in  1968  in  Tarlac  Province,  north  of  Manila,  by 
the  newly  established  Communist  Party  of  the  Philippines-Marxist 
Leninist,  soon  spread  to  other  parts  of  Luzon  and  throughout  the 
archipelago.  In  the  south,  demands  for  Muslim  autonomy  and  vio- 
lence, often  between  indigenous  Muslims  and  government- 
sponsored  Christian  immigrants  who  had  begun  to  move  down  from 
the  north,  were  on  the  rise.  In  1969  the  Moro  National  Liberation 
Front  (MNLF)  was  organized  as  a  guerrilla  force  for  the  Muslim 
cause.  The  volatile  political  situation  came  to  a  head  when  grenade 
explosions  in  the  Plaza  Miranda  in  Manila  during  an  opposition 
Liberal  Party  rally  on  August  21 ,  1971 ,  killed  9  people  and  wounded 


xxvi 


100.  Marcos  blamed  the  leftists  and  suspended  habeas  corpus.  Thir- 
teen months  later,  on  September  21,  1972,  Marcos  used  a  provi- 
sion of  the  1935  constitution  to  declare  martial  law  after  an  attempt 
was  reportedly  made  to  assassinate  Minister  of  National  Defense 
Juan  Ponce  Enrile.  In  1986,  after  Marcos 's  downfall,  Enrile  ad- 
mitted that  his  unoccupied  car  had  been  riddled  by  machine-gun 
bullets  fired  by  his  own  people. 

Under  the  provisions  of  martial  law,  Marcos  shut  down  Con- 
gress and  most  newspapers,  jailed  his  major  political  opponents, 
assumed  dictatorial  powers,  and  ruled  by  presidential  decree.  Dur- 
ing the  early  years  of  martial  law,  the  economy  improved,  benefiting 
from  increased  business  confidence  and  Marcos 's  appointment  of 
talented  technocrats  to  economic  planning  posts.  But  over  the  next 
few  years,  major  segments  of  the  economy  gradually  were  brought 
under  the  control  of  the  Marcos  crony  (see  Glossary)  group.  Mo- 
nopolies controlled  by  Marcos  cronies  were  subsidized  heavily,  seri- 
ously depleting  the  national  treasury.  The  previously  apolitical, 
professional  armed  forces  were  used  by  Marcos  to  enforce  martial 
law  and  ensure  his  political  survival.  Even  after  Marcos  rescinded 
martial  law  in  January  1981 ,  he  continued  to  rule  with  virtual  dic- 
tatorial powers.  Thus,  it  came  as  no  surprise  that  Marcos  won  an 
overwhelming  victory  in  the  June  1981  presidential  election,  an 
election  that  was  boycotted  by  most  opposition  forces. 

In  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s,  as  the  economic  and  political 
situation  deteriorated,  opposition  to  the  Marcos  government  grew. 
The  Catholic  Church,  the  country's  strongest  and  most  indepen- 
dent nongovernmental  institution,  became  increasingly  critical  of 
the  government.  Priests,  nuns,  and  the  church  hierarchy,  moti- 
vated by  their  commitment  to  human  rights  and  social  justice,  be- 
came involved  in  redressing  the  sufferings  of  the  common  people 
through  the  political  process.  The  business  community  became  in- 
creasingly apprehensive  during  this  period,  as  inflation  and  un- 
employment soared  and  the  GNP  stagnated  and  declined.  Young 
military  officers,  desirous  of  a  return  to  pre-martial  law  profession- 
alism, allied  with  Minister  of  National  Defense  Enrile  to  oppose 
close  Marcos  associates  in  the  military. 

One  of  Marcos's  first  acts  under  martial  law  was  to  jail  Senator 
Benigno  "Ninoy"  Aquino,  his  main  opponent  and  most  likely  suc- 
cessor. But  even  in  his  imprisonment,  Aquino  maintained  a  large 
following,  and  when  he  was  allowed  to  go  to  the  United  States  for 
medical  treatment  in  1980,  he  became  a  more  formidable  leader 
of  the  opposition  in  exile.  By  1983  the  deteriorating  economic  and 
political  situation  and  Marcos's  worsening  health  convinced  Aquino 
that  in  order  to  prevent  civil  war  he  must  return  to  the  Philippines 


xxvn 


to  build  a  responsible  united  opposition  and  persuade  Marcos  to 
relinquish  power. 

Despite  the  obvious  danger  to  his  personal  safety,  Aquino 
returned.  He  was  shot  in  the  head  and  killed  on  August  21 ,  1983, 
as  he  was  escorted  off  an  airplane  at  Manila  International  Airport 
by  soldiers  of  the  Aviation  Security  Command.  As  a  martyr, 
Aquino  became  the  focus  of  popular  indignation  against  the  cor- 
rupt Marcos  regime,  a  more  formidable  opponent  in  death  than 
in  life.  The  opposition  initially  consisted  primarily  of  the  Catho- 
lic hierarchy,  the  business  elite,  and  a  faction  of  the  armed  forces. 
It  grew  into  the  People's  Power  movement  with  millions  of  rural, 
working  class,  middle  class,  and  professional  supporters,  when 
Aquino's  widow,  Corazon  "Cory"  Aquino,  returned  to  the  Philip- 
pines to  take  over,  first  symbolically  and  then  substantively,  as  lead- 
er of  the  opposition. 

In  November  1985,  Marcos,  still  convinced  that  he  had  control 
of  the  political  situation,  announced  a  presidential  election  for 
February  7,  1986,  one  year  before  the  expiration  of  his  presiden- 
tial term.  Cardinal  Jaime  Sin,  the  archbishop  of  Manila,  arranged 
a  political  alliance  of  convenience  that  ran  the  immensely  popular 
Cory  Aquino  as  candidate  for  president  and  politically  astute  Sal- 
vador "Doy"  Laurel  as  vice  president.  The  Aquino-Laurel  ticket 
gained  the  support  of  the  Catholic  Church  and  a  substantial  part 
of  the  electorate  and,  despite  widespread  fraud  by  Marcos  support- 
ers, garnered  a  majority  of  votes  in  the  election.  Nevertheless,  the 
Marcos-dominated  National  Assembly  declared  Marcos  the  win- 
ner on  February  15. 

Opposition  at  home  and  abroad  was  immediate  and  vociferous. 
On  February  22,  Minister  of  National  Defense  Juan  Ponce  Enrile 
and  the  commander  of  the  Philippine  Constabulary,  Fidel  V.  Ra- 
mos, issued  a  joint  statement  demanding  Marcos 's  resignation  and 
set  up  a  rebel  headquarters  inside  Camp  Aguinaldo  and  the  ad- 
joining Camp  Crame  in  Metro  Manila  (see  Glossary).  When  Mar- 
cos called  out  troops  loyal  to  him  to  put  down  the  rebellion,  Cardinal 
Sin  broadcast  an  appeal  over  the  church-run  Radio  Veritas  call- 
ing on  the  people  to  render  nonviolent  support  to  the  rebels. 
Hundreds  of  thousands  of  unarmed  priests,  nuns,  and  ordinary 
citizens  faced  down  the  tanks  and  machine  guns  of  the  government 
troops.  Violent  confrontation  was  prevented  and  many  government 
troops  turned  back  or  defected.  By  the  evening  of  February  25, 
Marcos  and  his  family  were  enroute  to  exile  in  Hawaii,  and  Corazon 
Aquino  had  assumed  power. 

The  Aquino  government  had  been  in  office  only  five  months 
when  it  was  challenged  by  the  first  of  six  coup  attempts  led  by 


xxviii 


dissatisfied  armed  forces  factions.  The  first  attempt,  a  relatively 
minor  affair,  was  quickly  put  down,  but  later  attempts  in  August 
1987  and  December  1989,  led  by  the  same  reformist  officers  that 
had  helped  bring  Aquino  to  power,  came  very  close  to  toppling 
her  government.  In  the  1989  attempt,  elite  rebel  units  seized  a  major 
air  base  in  Cebu,  held  parts  of  army  and  air  force  headquarters 
and  the  international  airport,  and  were  preparing  to  move  on  armed 
forces  headquarters  in  Camp  Aguinaldo  when  they  were  turned 
back.  The  threat  of  another  coup  attempt  hung  over  the  capital 
in  1990,  but  as  Aquino's  term  drew  to  a  close  in  1991  and  1992, 
the  threat  had  considerably  diminished.  Most  disaffected  military 
officers  seemed  content  to  seek  change  through  the  political  process, 
and  many  officers  involved  in  earlier  coup  attempts  had  been  per- 
suaded to  give  themselves  up,  confident  of  lenient  treatment. 

In  1992  the  threat  from  domestic  insurgents  was  somewhat 
reduced.  Although  the  MNLF  and  other  Moro  insurgent  groups 
were  a  major  threat  in  the  southern  Philippines  in  the  early  1970s, 
since  that  time,  internal  divisions,  reduced  external  support,  pres- 
sure by  the  armed  forces,  and  government  accommodations — 
including  the  creation  of  an  Autonomous  Region  in  Muslim  Min- 
danao in  1990 — had  greatly  reduced  that  threat.  The  communist 
NPA  peaked  in  1987,  when  there  were  26,000  guerrillas  active  in 
the  field.  In  1992,  with  approximately  20,000  full-time  guerrilla 
troops,  the  NPA  remained  a  formidable  threat  to  the  government. 
Arrest  of  a  number  of  top  insurgent  cadres  and  major  internal 
purges,  however,  had  greatly  reduced  its  power. 

Despite  Filipinos'  serious  concern  for  maintaining  national  iden- 
tity and  avoiding  any  appearance  of  foreign  subjugation,  in  1992 
congruent  interests  and  a  long  history  of  friendly  relations  made 
it  seem  likely  that  the  United  States  would  remain  the  Philippines' 
closest  ally — even  after  the  long,  difficult,  and  ultimately  unsuc- 
cessful negotiations  to  extend  the  Military  Bases  Agreement.  The 
original  Military  Bases  Agreement  of  1947,  amended  in  1959  and 
again  in  1979,  was  scheduled  to  expire  in  1991  unless  an  exten- 
sion was  negotiated.  Negotiations  for  continued  United  States  use 
of  the  two  major  bases  in  the  Philippines — Clark  Air  Base  in  Pam- 
panga  Province  and  Subic  Bay  Naval  Base  in  Zambales  Province — 
had  begun  in  1990.  The  tenor  of  the  negotiations  changed  signifi- 
cantly, however,  in  1991,  when  the  end  of  the  Cold  War  made 
the  bases  less  important  and  the  eruption  of  the  Mount  Pinatubo 
volcano  rendered  Clark  Air  Base  unusable.  By  the  end  of  August 
1991,  United  States  and  Philippine  negotiators  had  agreed  to  ex- 
tend the  United  States  lease  of  Subic  Bay  Naval  Base  for  another 
ten  years  in  return  for  US$360  million  in  direct  compensation  for 


xxix 


the  first  year  and  US$203  million  for  the  remaining  nine  years  of 
the  lease.  But  in  September  1991,  the  Philippine  Senate  rejected 
the  agreement.  As  a  result,  the  United  States  was  expected  to  va- 
cate Subic  Bay  Naval  Base,  its  only  remaining  base  in  the  Philip- 
pines, by  the  end  of  1992. 

In  early  spring  1992,  everyone's  attention  was  turned  to  the  up- 
coming national  elections.  Who  would  be  the  first  president  elect- 
ed since  the  restoration  of  democracy?  What  would  be  the 
composition  of  the  new  Congress?  Would  the  new  president  and 
the  new  Congress  strike  out  in  bold  new  directions  or  would  it  be 
more  business  as  usual?  The  future  of  the  Philippines  depended 
on  the  answers  to  these  questions. 

March  23,  1992 

Fidel  Ramos  succeeded  Corazon  Aquino  as  president  of  the 
Philippines  on  June  30,  1992,  after  winning  a  23.6  percent  plural- 
ity in  the  May  11,  1992,  general  election.  Ramos,  secretary  of  na- 
tional defense  in  the  Aquino  administration  and  handpicked  by 
Aquino  to  succeed  her,  narrowly  defeated  Secretary  of  Agrarian 
Reform  Miriam  Defensor  Santiago,  who  received  19.8  percent  of 
the  vote,  and  former  Marcos  crony  Eduardo  Cojuangco,  who 
received  18.1  percent. 

The  election  proved  that  Corazon  Aquino  had  succeeded  in  the 
primary  goal  of  her  presidency,  restoring  democracy  to  the  Philip- 
pines. Nearly  85  percent  of  eligible  voters  turned  out  to  elect  17,205 
officials,  including  the  president,  the  vice  president,  24  members 
of  the  Senate,  200  members  of  the  House  of  Representatives,  73 
governors,  and  1,602  mayors.  The  election  was  relatively  peace- 
ful; there  was  no  threat  of  a  military  coup  before,  during,  or  after 
the  election  and  only  52  election-related  deaths  were  reported,  com- 
pared to  150  in  the  1986  presidential  election.  Despite  claims  of 
election  fraud  from  losing  candidates,  the  Commission  on  Elec- 
tions apparently  exercised  effective  control  and  relatively  few  vot- 
ing irregularities  were  substantiated.  Ramos  won  the  election  on 
his  appeal  for  stability  and  a  continuation  of  Aquino  policies,  and 
Santiago  received  strong  support  for  her  anticorruption  candidacy. 
Cojuangco's  substantial  support,  however,  suggested  that  a  large 
share  of  the  electorate  favored  a  return  to  the  economic  policies 
and  the  traditional  patronage  system  of  the  Marcos  era. 

Shortly  after  his  inauguration,  Ramos  sought  a  reconciliation 
with  his  former  rivals  from  the  presidential  election,  Imelda  Marcos 


xxx 


and  Eduardo  Cojuangco.  In  the  House  of  Representatives,  Ra- 
mos gained  the  position  of  speaker  of  the  House  for  Jose  de  Vene- 
cia, his  close  political  ally  and  secretary  of  the  Lakas  ng 
Edsa-National  Union  of  Christian  Democrats  (Lakas-NUCD).  Ra- 
mos received  support  from  the  fifty-one  members  of  the  House  elect- 
ed under  the  banner  of  the  Lakas-NUCD  alliance,  which  he  had 
formed  when  he  failed  to  get  the  nomination  of  the  Laban 
Demokratikong  Pilipino  (LDP)  party.  In  part  because  of  his  con- 
ciliatory approach,  Ramos  was  also  able  to  marshal  support  from 
a  substantial  share  of  LDP  members,  from  members  of  Eduardo 
Cojuangco's  Nationalist  People's  Party,  and  from  members  of  the 
Liberal  Party.  He  was  less  successful  in  the  Senate,  where  LDP 
chairman  Neptali  Gonzales  was  elected  president.  Ramos  seemed 
likely  to  face  a  major  challenge  getting  his  program  to  stimulate 
economic  growth  and  restore  order  to  the  Philippines  through  a 
divided  and  potentially  hostile  Congress. 

The  Philippine  economy  showed  some  improvement  in  early 
1992,  spurred  by  increases  in  agricultural  production  and  in  con- 
sumer and  government  spending.  Budget  deficits  were  well  within 
IMF  guidelines — P3.2  billion  in  the  first  two  months.  At  the  end 
of  April,  the  treasury  posted  a  P5.5  billion  surplus  as  a  result  of 
higher  than  programmed  revenue  receipts,  mainly  from  the  sale 
of  Philippine  Airlines.  The  increased  revenue  permitted  the  early 
repeal  of  the  5  percent  import  surcharge,  stimulating  both  import 
spending  and  export  growth.  The  money  supply  grew  more  rapidly 
than  desired,  but  was  kept  under  control.  Treasury  bill  rates  fell 
to  17.3  percent  in  March  1992  from  23  percent  in  November  1991, 
and  inflation  was  down  to  9.4  percent  for  the  first  quarter  of  1992, 
from  18.7  percent  in  1991. 

One  of  the  greatest  threats  to  the  Philippine  economy  in  1992 
was  the  power  shortage.  The  fall  in  the  water  level  in  Lake  Lanao 
caused  a  50  percent  reduction  in  the  power  supply  to  Mindanao 
in  December  1991,  and  the  resumption  of  full  power  was  not  ex- 
pected until  almost  the  end  of  1992.  The  power  shortage  in  Luzon 
continued  to  be  chronic.  Power  cuts  of  four  to  five  hours  per  day 
have  been  common;  in  May  they  reached  six  hours  on  some  days 
in  Manila,  the  country's  industrial  hub.  To  help  to  meet  this  chronic 
shortage,  the  government  reactivated  the  contract  with  Westing- 
house  Corporation  to  restart  construction  on  a  620  megawatt 
nuclear  power  plant  on  the  Bataan  Peninsula  that  had  been  aban- 
doned in  1986.  This  plant,  however,  will  not  be  on  line  until  1995. 

The  conversion  to  civilian  use  of  the  military  bases  vacated  by 
the  United  States  poses  another  major  economic  challenge.  The 
United  States  forces  departed  from  the  huge  Subic  Bay  Naval  Base 


xxxi 


on  September  30,  1992,  and  the  United  States  was  expected  to  leave 
Cubi  Point  Naval  Air  Station,  its  last  base  in  the  Philippines,  in 
November  1992.  The  Philippine  Congress  ratified  a  base  conver- 
sion bill  in  February  1992  that  created  five  special  economic  zones 
at  the  vacated  United  States  bases  under  the  Base  Conversion  De- 
velopment Authority.  The  authority,  which  will  exist  for  five  years, 
will  sell  the  land  connected  with  the  bases  within  six  months  and 
use  half  the  proceeds  to  convert  the  bases  to  civilian  use.  One  plan 
envisions  converting  the  former  Subic  Bay  Naval  Base  into  a  tourist 
center,  industrial  zone,  container  port,  and  commercial  shipyard. 
But  this  plan  will  be  hampered  by  the  United  States  removal  of 
major  equipment,  including  three  dry  docks,  from  the  base. 

In  late  1992,  a  new  Philippine  president  and  a  new  Congress, 
the  first  elected  under  the  1987  constitution,  faced  major  econom- 
ic and  political  challenges.  An  anxious  Philippine  citizenry  waited 
to  see  how  well  its  leader  and  elected  representatives  would  cooperate 
in  an  attempt  to  meet  these  challenges. 

October  21,  1992  Ronald  E.  Dolan 


XXXll 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


Architecture  of  this  church  from  the  Spanish  colonial  period  reflects 

the  Hispanic  legacy.  Philippine  influences,  however,  can  be  seen  in  the  palm 

tree  motif  at  the  top  of  the  facade  and  in  other  details. 


ON  AUGUST  21,  1983,  Benigno  Aquino,  leader  of  the  Philip- 
pines democratic  opposition,  was  assassinated  as  he  left  the  air- 
plane that  had  brought  him  back  home  after  a  three-year  exile  in 
the  United  States.  The  explanation  of  the  killing  by  the  govern- 
ment of  President  Ferdinand  E.  Marcos,  placing  responsibility  on 
a  lone  communist  gunman,  who  himself  was  shot  by  government 
troops,  aroused  skepticism  and  was  rejected  by  a  government- 
appointed  commission.  It  was  evident  to  a  majority  of  Filipinos 
that  Aquino  had  been  killed  by  the  armed  forces  and  that  ultimate 
responsibility  lay,  if  not  with  Ferdinand  Marcos,  with  his  power- 
ful wife  Imelda  Romualdez  Marcos  and  her  close  ally,  General  Fa- 
bian Ver.  The  killing  exposed  the  Marcoses  to  massive  popular 
indignation  that  was  even  stronger  than  the  indignation  aroused 
by  the  communist  and  Muslim  insurgencies  in  the  countryside, 
economic  distress,  corruption  of  political  institutions,  and  the  in- 
competence and  brutality  of  the  military.  Aquino's  widow,  Corazon 
Cojuangco  Aquino,  became  a  powerful  symbol  of  democratic  resur- 
gence. Following  a  February  7,  1986,  presidential  election  hope- 
lessly compromised  by  regime-perpetuated  abuses,  she  was  brought 
to  power  by  a  popular  movement  that  encompassed  practically  every 
major  social  group.  Her  struggle  against  Marcos  was  more  than 
a  political  campaign  and  assumed  the  proportions  of  a  moral  cru- 
sade that  was  backed  by  the  Roman  Catholic  Church. 

Ferdinand  Marcos  had  been  elected  president  in  1965  and  won 
a  second  term  in  1969.  But,  in  September  1972,  largely  in  order 
to  perpetuate  his  regime,  he  felt  constrained  to  impose  martial  law. 
Long-established  democratic  institutions  were  shut  down  or  coopted 
by  the  Marcos  dictatorship.  While  the  economies  of  neighboring 
states,  such  as  Malaysia,  Thailand,  and  Indonesia,  flourished,  or 
at  least  adequately  weathered  uncertainties  during  the  late  1970s 
and  early  1980s,  the  Philippine  economy  stagnated.  The  Aquino 
assassination  caused  any  remaining  confidence  in  business  to  eva- 
porate. For  ordinary  Filipinos,  this  situation  meant  high  inflation, 
unemployment,  and  a  decline  in  an  already  low  standard  of  living. 

The  Marcos  era  from  1965  to  1986  and  the  ensuing  democratic 
resurgence  under  Corazon  Aquino  revealed  both  the  strengths  and 
weaknesses  of  the  nation's  democratic  institutions.  A  Spanish  colony 
since  the  sixteenth  century,  the  Philippines  became  a  United  States 
possession  after  the  1898  Spanish- American  War,  despite  the  op- 
position of  local  patriots  who  wanted  to  establish  an  independent 


3 


Architecture  of  this  church  from  the  Spanish  colonial  period  reflects 

the  Hispanic  legacy.  Philippine  influences,  however,  can  be  seen  in  the  palm 

tree  motif  at  the  top  of  the  facade  and  in  other  details. 


ON  AUGUST  21,  1983,  Benigno  Aquino,  leader  of  the  Philip- 
pines democratic  opposition,  was  assassinated  as  he  left  the  air- 
plane that  had  brought  him  back  home  after  a  three-year  exile  in 
the  United  States.  The  explanation  of  the  killing  by  the  govern- 
ment of  President  Ferdinand  E.  Marcos,  placing  responsibility  on 
a  lone  communist  gunman,  who  himself  was  shot  by  government 
troops,  aroused  skepticism  and  was  rejected  by  a  government- 
appointed  commission.  It  was  evident  to  a  majority  of  Filipinos 
that  Aquino  had  been  killed  by  the  armed  forces  and  that  ultimate 
responsibility  lay,  if  not  with  Ferdinand  Marcos,  with  his  power- 
ful wife  Imelda  Romualdez  Marcos  and  her  close  ally,  General  Fa- 
bian Ver.  The  killing  exposed  the  Marcoses  to  massive  popular 
indignation  that  was  even  stronger  than  the  indignation  aroused 
by  the  communist  and  Muslim  insurgencies  in  the  countryside, 
economic  distress,  corruption  of  political  institutions,  and  the  in- 
competence and  brutality  of  the  military.  Aquino's  widow,  Corazon 
Cojuangco  Aquino,  became  a  powerful  symbol  of  democratic  resur- 
gence. Following  a  February  7,  1986,  presidential  election  hope- 
lessly compromised  by  regime-perpetuated  abuses,  she  was  brought 
to  power  by  a  popular  movement  that  encompassed  practically  every 
major  social  group.  Her  struggle  against  Marcos  was  more  than 
a  political  campaign  and  assumed  the  proportions  of  a  moral  cru- 
sade that  was  backed  by  the  Roman  Catholic  Church. 

Ferdinand  Marcos  had  been  elected  president  in  1 965  and  won 
a  second  term  in  1969.  But,  in  September  1972,  largely  in  order 
to  perpetuate  his  regime,  he  felt  constrained  to  impose  martial  law. 
Long-established  democratic  institutions  were  shut  down  or  coopted 
by  the  Marcos  dictatorship.  While  the  economies  of  neighboring 
states,  such  as  Malaysia,  Thailand,  and  Indonesia,  flourished,  or 
at  least  adequately  weathered  uncertainties  during  the  late  1970s 
and  early  1980s,  the  Philippine  economy  stagnated.  The  Aquino 
assassination  caused  any  remaining  confidence  in  business  to  eva- 
porate. For  ordinary  Filipinos,  this  situation  meant  high  inflation, 
unemployment,  and  a  decline  in  an  already  low  standard  of  living. 

The  Marcos  era  from  1965  to  1986  and  the  ensuing  democratic 
resurgence  under  Corazon  Aquino  revealed  both  the  strengths  and 
weaknesses  of  the  nation's  democratic  institutions.  A  Spanish  colony 
since  the  sixteenth  century,  the  Philippines  became  a  United  States 
possession  after  the  1898  Spanish- American  War,  despite  the  op- 
position of  local  patriots  who  wanted  to  establish  an  independent 


3 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


republic  and  fought  a  bitter  guerrilla  war  against  the  new  coloniz- 
ers. Representative  institutions  were  established  in  the  first  decade 
of  United  States  rule  in  order  to  prepare  the  people  for  eventual 
independence.  Particularly  when  compared  with  other  Western 
colonies  in  Asia,  the  Philippines  made  rapid  progress.  On  Novem- 
ber 15,  1935,  the  self-governing  Commonwealth  of  the  Philippines 
was  established.  Despite  a  harsh  Japanese  occupation  during  World 
War  II,  which  inflicted  tremendous  suffering  on  the  population, 
the  Philippines  became  independent  on  schedule,  on  July  4,  1946. 

The  independent  Philippines  had  firmly  established  democratic 
institutions:  a  two-party  system,  an  independent  judiciary,  a  free 
press,  and  regularly  scheduled  national  and  local  elections.  Although 
there  were  electoral  abuses,  the  candidates  and  the  citizenry  abid- 
ed by  the  results.  Social  values,  however,  emphasized  the  impor- 
tance of  personal  relations  over  the  rule  of  law,  and  since  early 
American  colonial  days  the  political  system  and  economy  had  been 
dominated  by  a  small  landholding  elite  that  opposed  meaningful 
social  change,  including  land  reform.  The  rural  and  urban  poor 
lacked  political  power,  and  many  joined  communist  insurgencies. 
By  the  early  1980s,  this  nation,  richly  endowed  with  natural 
resources,  had  extreme  poverty  in  some  regions,  such  as  the  sugar- 
growing  island  of  Negros,  and  gaps  between  rich  and  poor  that 
were  wider  than  in  most  of  the  other  developing  countries  of 
Southeast  Asia  and  East  Asia  (see  fig.  1). 

When  Marcos  declared  martial  law  in  September  1972,  he 
promised  to  eliminate  poverty  and  injustice  and  create  a  4 'New 
Society."  Instead,  he  destroyed  democratic  institutions  that  would 
have  acted  as  a  brake  on  abuses  of  power  by  him,  his  wife,  and 
their  close  associates.  Ultimately  these  abuses  contributed  to  his 
ouster.  Corazon  Aquino  assumed  power  on  February  25,  1986, 
amidst  an  atmosphere  of  hope  and  enthusiasm.  But  the  obstacles 
she  faced — communist  insurgency,  years  of  economic  mismanage- 
ment, and  an  indigenous  ethic  that  persistently  emphasized  group 
loyalties  and  patron-client  relationships  over  the  national  welfare — 
were  formidable. 

Early  History 

Negrito,  proto-Malay,  and  Malay  peoples  were  the  principal  peo- 
ples of  the  Philippine  archipelago.  The  Negritos  are  believed  to 
have  migrated  by  land  bridges  some  30,000  years  ago,  during  the 
last  glacial  period.  Later  migrations  were  by  water  and  took  place 
over  several  thousand  years  in  repeated  movements  before  and  af- 
ter the  start  of  the  Christian  era. 


4 


Historical  Setting 


The  social  and  political  organization  of  the  population  in  the  wide- 
ly scattered  islands  evolved  into  a  generally  common  pattern.  Only 
the  permanent-field  rice  farmers  of  northern  Luzon  had  any  con- 
cept of  territoriality.  The  basic  unit  of  settlement  was  the  barangay 
(see  Glossary),  originally  a  kinship  group  headed  by  a  datu  (chief). 
Within  the  barangay,  the  broad  social  divisions  consisted  of  nobles, 
including  the  datu;  freemen;  and  a  group  described  before  the  Span- 
ish period  as  dependents.  Dependents  included  several  categories 
with  differing  status:  landless  agricultural  workers;  those  who  had 
lost  freeman  status  because  of  indebtedness  or  punishment  for  crime; 
and  slaves,  most  of  whom  appear  to  have  been  war  captives. 

Islam  was  brought  to  the  Philippines  by  traders  and  proselytiz- 
ers  from  the  Indonesian  islands.  By  1500  Islam  was  established  in 
the  Sulu  Archipelago  and  spread  from  there  to  Mindanao;  it  had 
reached  the  Manila  area  by  1565.  Muslim  immigrants  introduced 
a  political  concept  of  territorial  states  ruled  by  rajas  or  sultans  who 
exercised  suzerainty  over  the  datu.  Neither  the  political  state  con- 
cept of  the  Muslim  rulers  nor  the  limited  territorial  concept  of  the 
sedentary  rice  farmers  of  Luzon,  however,  spread  beyond  the  areas 
where  they  originated.  When  the  Spanish  arrived  in  the  sixteenth 
century,  the  majority  of  the  estimated  500,000  people  in  the  is- 
lands still  lived  in  barangay  settlements. 

The  Early  Spanish  Period,  1521-1762 

The  first  recorded  sighting  of  the  Philippines  by  Europeans  was 
on  March  16,  1521,  during  Ferdinand  Magellan's  circumnaviga- 
tion of  the  globe.  Magellan  landed  on  Cebu,  claimed  the  land  for 
Charles  I  of  Spain,  and  was  killed  one  month  later  by  a  local  chief. 
The  Spanish  crown  sent  several  expeditions  to  the  archipelago  dur- 
ing the  next  decades.  Permanent  Spanish  settlement  was  finally 
established  in  1565  when  Miguel  Lopez  de  Legazpi,  the  first  royal 
governor,  arrived  in  Cebu  from  New  Spain  (Mexico).  Six  years 
later,  after  defeating  a  local  Muslim  ruler,  he  established  his  capi- 
tal at  Manila,  a  location  that  offered  the  excellent  harbor  of  Manila 
Bay,  a  large  population,  and  proximity  to  the  ample  food  supplies 
of  the  central  Luzon  rice  lands.  Manila  remained  the  center  of  Span- 
ish civil,  military,  religious,  and  commercial  activity  in  the  islands. 
The  islands  were  given  their  present  name  in  honor  of  Philip  II 
of  Spain,  who  reigned  from  1556  to  1598. 

Spain  had  three  objectives  in  its  policy  toward  the  Philippines, 
its  only  colony  in  Asia:  to  acquire  a  share  in  the  spice  trade,  to  de- 
velop contacts  with  China  and  Japan  in  order  to  further  Christian 
missionary  efforts  there,  and  to  convert  the  Filipinos  to  Chris- 
tianity. Only  the  third  objective  was  eventually  realized,  and  this 


5 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

not  completely  because  of  the  active  resistance  of  both  the  Mus- 
lims in  the  south  and  the  Igorot,  the  upland  tribal  peoples  in  the 
north.  Philip  II  explicitly  ordered  that  pacification  of  the  Philip- 
pines be  bloodless,  to  avoid  a  repetition  of  Spain's  sanguinary  con- 
quests in  the  Americas.  Occupation  of  the  islands  was  accomplished 
with  relatively  little  bloodshed,  partly  because  most  of  the  popula- 
tion (except  the  Muslims)  offered  little  armed  resistance  initially. 

Church  and  state  were  inseparably  linked  in  carrying  out  Span- 
ish policy.  The  state  assumed  administrative  responsibility — funding 
expenditures  and  selecting  personnel — for  the  new  ecclesiastical  es- 
tablishments. Responsibility  for  conversion  of  the  indigenous  popu- 
lation to  Christianity  was  assigned  to  several  religious  orders:  the 
Dominicans,  Franciscans,  and  Augustinians,  known  collectively 
as  the  friars — and  to  the  Jesuits.  At  the  lower  levels  of  colonial  ad- 
ministration, the  Spanish  built  on  traditional  village  organization 
by  co-opting  the  traditional  local  leaders,  thereby  ruling  indirectly. 

This  system  of  indirect  rule  helped  create  in  rural  areas  a  Filipi- 
no upper  class,  referred  to  as  the  principalia  or  the  principals  (prin- 
cipal ones).  This  group  had  local  wealth;  high  status  and  prestige; 
and  certain  privileges,  such  as  exemption  from  taxes,  lesser  roles 
in  the  parish  church,  and  appointment  to  local  offices.  The  prin- 
cipalia was  larger  and  more  influential  than  the  preconquest  nobil- 
ity, and  it  created  and  perpetuated  an  oligarchic  system  of  local 
control.  Among  the  most  significant  and  enduring  changes  that 
occurred  under  Spanish  rule  was  that  the  Filipino  idea  of  communal 
use  and  ownership  of  land  was  replaced  with  the  concept  of  pri- 
vate, individual  ownership  and  the  conferring  of  titles  on  mem- 
bers of  the  principalia. 

Religion  played  a  significant  role  in  Spain's  relations  with  and 
attitudes  toward  the  indigenous  population.  The  Spaniards  consid- 
ered conversion  through  baptism  to  be  a  symbol  of  allegiance  to 
their  authority.  Although  they  were  interested  in  gaining  a  profit 
from  the  colony,  the  Spanish  also  recognized  a  responsibility  to 
protect  the  property  and  personal  rights  of  these  new  Christians. 

The  church's  work  of  converting  Filipinos  was  facilitated  by  the 
absence  of  other  organized  religions,  except  for  Islam,  which 
predominated  in  the  south.  The  missionaries  had  their  greatest  suc- 
cess among  women  and  children,  although  the  pageantry  of  the 
church  had  a  wide  appeal,  reinforced  by  the  incorporation  of  Filipi- 
no social  customs  into  religious  observances,  for  example,  in  the 
fiestas  celebrating  the  patron  saint  of  a  local  community  (see  Reli- 
gious Life,  ch.  2).  The  eventual  outcome  was  a  new  cultural  com- 
munity of  the  main  Malay  lowland  population,  from  which  the 


6 


Multilevel  rice  terraces  on  Luzon  were  established  centuries  ago 

by  Ifugao  tribal  peoples. 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  the  Republic  of  the  Philippines,  Washington 
Ferdinand  Magellan 's  commemorative  cross  in  a  church  on  Cebu 
marks  his  arrival  in  the  Philippines  in  1521. 
Courtesy  Philippine  Tourist  Research  and  Planning  Organization 


7 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Muslims  (known  by  the  Spanish  as  Moros,  or  Moors)  and  the  up- 
land tribal  peoples  of  Luzon  remained  detached  and  alienated. 

The  Spanish  found  neither  spices  nor  exploitable  precious  met- 
als in  the  Philippines.  The  ecology  of  the  islands  was  little  changed 
by  Spanish  importations  and  technical  innovations,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  corn  cultivation  and  some  extension  of  irrigation  in  order 
to  increase  rice  supplies  for  the  growing  urban  population.  The 
colony  was  not  profitable,  and  a  long  war  with  the  Dutch  in  the 
seventeenth  century  and  intermittent  conflict  with  the  Moros  nearly 
bankrupted  the  colonial  treasury.  Annual  deficits  were  made  up 
by  a  subsidy  from  Mexico. 

Colonial  income  derived  mainly  from  entrepot  trade:  the  "Ma- 
nila galleons"  sailing  from  Acapulco  on  the  west  coast  of  Mexico 
brought  shipments  of  silver  bullion  and  minted  coin  that  were  ex- 
changed for  return  cargoes  of  Chinese  goods,  mainly  silk  textiles. 
There  was  no  direct  trade  with  Spain.  Failure  to  exploit  indigenous 
natural  resources  and  investment  of  virtually  all  official,  private, 
and  church  capital  in  the  galleon  trade  were  mutually  reinforcing 
tendencies.  Loss  or  capture  of  the  galleons  or  Chinese  junks  en 
route  to  Manila  represented  a  financial  disaster  for  the  colony. 

The  thriving  entrepot  trade  quickly  attracted  growing  numbers 
of  Chinese  to  Manila.  The  Chinese,  in  addition  to  managing  trade 
transactions,  were  the  source  of  some  necessary  provisions  and  ser- 
vices for  the  capital.  The  Spanish  regarded  them  with  a  mixture 
of  distrust  and  acknowledgment  of  their  indispensable  role.  Dur- 
ing the  first  decades  of  Spanish  rule,  the  Chinese  in  Manila  be- 
came more  numerous  than  the  Spanish,  who  tried  to  control  them 
with  residence  restrictions,  periodic  deportations,  and  actual  or  threat- 
ened violence  that  sometimes  degenerated  into  riots  and  massacres 
of  Chinese  during  the  period  between  1603  and  1762. 

The  Decline  of  Spanish  Rule,  1762-1898 

In  1762  Spain  became  involved  in  the  Seven  Years'  War 
(1756-63)  on  the  side  of  France  against  Britain;  in  October  1762, 
forces  of  the  British  East  India  Company  captured  Manila  after 
fierce  fighting.  Spanish  resistance  continued  under  Lieutenant 
Governor  Simon  de  Anda,  based  at  Bacolor  in  Pampanga  Province, 
and  Manila  was  returned  to  the  Spanish  in  May  1764  in  confor- 
mity with  the  Treaty  of  Paris,  which  formally  ended  the  war.  The 
British  occupation  nonetheless  marked,  in  a  very  significant  sense, 
the  beginning  of  the  end  of  the  old  order. 

Spanish  prestige  suffered  irreparable  damage  because  of  the  defeat 
at  British  hands.  A  number  of  rebellions  broke  out,  of  which  the 
most  notable  was  that  of  Diego  Silang  in  the  Ilocos  area  of  northern 


8 


Historical  Setting 


Luzon.  In  December  1762,  Silang  expelled  the  Spanish  from  the 
coastal  city  of  Vigan  and  set  up  an  independent  government.  He 
established  friendly  relations  with  the  British  and  was  able  to  repulse 
Spanish  attacks  on  Vigan,  but  he  was  assassinated  in  May  1763. 
The  Spanish,  tied  down  by  fighting  with  the  British  and  the  reb- 
els, were  unable  to  control  the  raids  of  the  Moros  of  the  south  on 
the  Christian  communities  of  the  Visayan  Islands  and  Luzon.  Thou- 
sands of  Christian  Filipinos  were  captured  as  slaves,  and  Moro  raids 
continued  to  be  a  serious  problem  through  the  remainder  of  the 
century.  The  Chinese  community,  resentful  of  Spanish  discrimi- 
nation, for  the  most  part  enthusiastically  supported  the  British, 
providing  them  with  laborers  and  armed  men  who  fought  de  Anda 
in  Pampanga. 

After  Spanish  rule  was  restored,  Jose  Basco  y  Vargas,  one  of 
the  ablest  of  Spanish  administrators,  was  governor  from  1778  to 
1787,  and  he  implemented  a  series  of  reforms  designed  to  promote 
the  economic  development  of  the  islands  and  make  them  indepen- 
dent of  the  subsidy  from  New  Spain.  In  1781  he  established  the 
Economic  Society  of  Friends  of  the  Country,  which,  throughout 
its  checkered  history  extending  over  the  next  century,  encouraged 
the  growth  of  new  crops  for  export — for  example,  indigo,  tea,  silk, 
opium  poppies,  and  abaca  (hemp) — and  the  development  of  local 
industry.  A  government  tobacco  monopoly  was  established  in  1782. 
The  monopoly  brought  in  large  profits  for  the  government  and 
made  the  Philippines  a  leader  in  world  tobacco  production. 

The  venerable  galleon  trade  between  the  Philippines  and  Mexi- 
co continued  as  a  government  monopoly  until  1815,  when  the  last 
official  galleon  from  Acapulco  docked  at  Manila.  The  Royal  Com- 
pany of  the  Philippines,  chartered  by  the  Spanish  king  in  1785, 
promoted  direct  trade  from  that  year  on  between  the  islands  and 
Spain.  All  Philippine  goods  were  given  tariff-free  status,  and  the 
company,  together  with  Basco 's  Economic  Society,  encouraged  the 
growth  of  a  cash-crop  economy  by  investing  a  portion  of  its  early 
profits  in  the  cultivation  of  sugar,  indigo,  peppers,  and  mulberry 
trees  for  silk,  as  well  as  in  textile  factories. 

Trade  with  Europe  and  America 

As  long  as  the  Spanish  empire  on  the  eastern  rim  of  the  Pacific 
remained  intact  and  the  galleons  sailed  to  and  from  Acapulco,  there 
was  littie  incentive  on  the  part  of  colonial  authorities  to  promote  the 
development  of  the  Philippines,  despite  the  initiatives  of  Jose  Basco 
y  Vargas  during  his  career  as  governor  in  Manila.  After  his  depar- 
ture, the  Economic  Society  was  allowed  to  fall  on  hard  times,  and 
the  Royal  Company  showed  decreasing  profits.  The  independence 


9 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


of  Spain's  Latin  American  colonies,  particularly  Mexico  in  1821, 
forced  a  fundamental  reorientation  of  policy.  Cut  off  from  the  Mex- 
ican subsidies  and  protected  Latin  American  markets,  the  islands 
had  to  pay  for  themselves.  As  a  result,  in  the  late  eighteenth  cen- 
tury commercial  isolation  became  less  feasible. 

Growing  numbers  of  foreign  merchants  in  Manila  spurred  the 
integration  of  the  Philippines  into  an  international  commercial  sys- 
tem linking  industrialized  Europe  and  North  America  with  sources 
of  raw  materials  and  markets  in  the  Americas  and  Asia.  In  princi- 
ple, non-Spanish  Europeans  were  not  allowed  to  reside  in  Manila 
or  elsewhere  in  the  islands,  but  in  fact  British,  American,  French, 
and  other  foreign  merchants  circumvented  this  prohibition  by  fly- 
ing the  flags  of  Asian  states  or  conniving  with  local  officials.  In 
1834  the  crown  abolished  the  Royal  Company  of  the  Philippines 
and  formally  recognized  free  trade,  opening  the  port  of  Manila  to 
unrestricted  foreign  commerce. 

By  1856  there  were  thirteen  foreign  trading  firms  in  Manila,  of 
which  seven  were  British  and  two  American;  between  1855  and 
1873  the  Spanish  opened  new  ports  to  foreign  trade,  including  Ilo- 
ilo  on  Panay,  Zamboanga  in  the  western  portion  of  Mindanao, 
Cebu  on  Cebu,  and  Legaspi  in  the  Bicol  area  of  southern  Luzon. 
The  growing  prominence  of  steam  over  sail  navigation  and  the 
opening  of  the  Suez  Canal  in  1869  contributed  to  spectacular  in- 
creases in  the  volume  of  trade.  In  1851  exports  and  imports  to- 
taled some  US$8.2  million;  ten  years  later,  they  had  risen  to 
US$18.9  million  and  by  1870  were  US$53.3  million.  Exports  alone 
grew  by  US$20  million  between  1861  and  1870.  British  and  Unit- 
ed States  merchants  dominated  Philippine  commerce,  the  former 
in  an  especially  favored  position  because  of  their  bases  in  Singa- 
pore, Hong  Kong,  and  the  island  of  Borneo. 

By  the  late  nineteenth  century,  three  crops — tobacco,  abaca,  and 
sugar — dominated  Philippine  exports.  The  government  monopoly 
on  tobacco  had  been  abolished  in  1880,  but  Philippine  cigars  main- 
tained their  high  reputation,  popular  throughout  Victorian  parlors 
in  Britain,  the  European  continent,  and  North  America.  Because 
of  the  growth  of  worldwide  shipping,  Philippine  abaca,  which  was 
considered  the  best  material  for  ropes  and  cordage,  grew  in  im- 
portance and  after  1850  alternated  with  sugar  as  the  islands'  most 
important  export.  Americans  dominated  the  abaca  trade;  raw 
material  was  made  into  rope,  first  at  plants  in  New  England  and 
then  in  the  Philippines.  Principal  regions  for  the  growing  of  abaca 
were  the  Bicol  areas  of  southeastern  Luzon  and  the  eastern  por- 
tions of  the  Visayan  Islands. 


10 


Historical  Setting 


Sugarcane  had  been  produced  and  refined  using  crude  methods 
at  least  as  early  as  the  beginning  of  the  eighteenth  century.  The 
opening  of  the  port  of  Iloilo  on  Panay  in  1855  and  the  encourage- 
ment of  the  British  vice  consul  in  that  town,  Nicholas  Loney 
(described  by  a  modern  writer  as  "a  one-man  whirlwind  of  en- 
trepreneurial and  technical  innovation"),  led  to  the  development 
of  the  previously  unsettled  island  of  Negros  as  the  center  of  the 
Philippine  sugar  industry,  exporting  its  product  to  Britain  and  Aus- 
tralia. Loney  arranged  liberal  credit  terms  for  local  landlords  to 
invest  in  the  new  crop,  encouraged  the  migration  of  labor  from 
the  neighboring  and  overpopulated  island  of  Panay,  and  introduced 
stream-driven  sugar  refineries  that  replaced  the  traditional  method 
of  producing  low-grade  sugar  in  loaves.  The  population  of  Negros 
tripled.  Local  "sugar  barons" — the  owners  of  the  sugar  planta- 
tions— became  a  potent  political  and  economic  force  by  the  end 
of  the  nineteenth  century. 

Chinese  and  Chinese  Mestizos 

In  the  late  eighteenth  and  early  nineteenth  centuries,  deep-seated 
Spanish  suspicion  of  the  Chinese  gave  way  to  recognition  of  their 
potentially  constructive  role  in  economic  development.  Chinese  ex- 
pulsion orders  issued  in  1755  and  1766  were  repealed  in  1788. 
Nevertheless,  the  Chinese  remained  concentrated  in  towns  around 
Manila,  particularly  Binondo  and  Santa  Cruz.  In  1839  the  govern- 
ment issued  a  decree  granting  them  freedom  of  occupation  and 
residence. 

In  the  latter  half  of  the  nineteenth  century,  immigration  into  the 
archipelago,  largely  from  the  maritime  province  of  Fujian  on  the 
southeastern  coast  of  China,  increased,  and  a  growing  proportion 
of  Chinese  settled  in  outlying  areas.  In  1849  more  than  90  percent 
of  the  approximately  6,000  Chinese  lived  in  or  around  Manila, 
whereas  in  1886  this  proportion  decreased  to  77  percent  of  the 
66,000  Chinese  in  the  Philippines  at  that  time,  declining  still  fur- 
ther in  the  1890s.  The  Chinese  presence  in  the  hinterland  went 
hand  in  hand  with  the  transformation  of  the  insular  economy.  Span- 
ish policy  encouraged  immigrants  to  become  agricultural  laborers. 
Some  became  gardeners,  supplying  vegetables  to  the  towns,  but 
most  shunned  the  fields  and  set  themselves  up  as  small  retailers 
and  moneylenders.  The  Chinese  soon  gained  a  central  position  in 
the  cash-crop  economy  on  the  provincial  and  local  levels. 

Of  equal,  if  not  greater,  significance  for  subsequent  political, 
cultural,  and  economic  developments  were  the  Chinese  mestizos 
(see  Glossary).  At  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century,  they 
composed  about  5  percent  of  the  total  population  of  around  2.5 


11 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

million  and  were  concentrated  in  the  most  developed  provinces  of 
Central  Luzon  and  in  Manila  and  its  environs.  A  much  smaller 
number  lived  in  the  more  important  towns  of  the  Visayan  Islands, 
such  as  Cebu  and  Iloilo,  and  on  Mindanao.  Converts  to  Catholi- 
cism and  speakers  of  Filipino  languages  or  Spanish  rather  than 
Chinese  dialects,  the  mestizos  enjoyed  a  legal  status  as  subjects  of 
Spain  that  was  denied  the  Chinese.  In  the  words  of  historian  Ed- 
gar Vickberg,  they  were  considered,  unlike  the  mixed-Chinese  of 
other  Southeast  Asian  countries,  not  "a  special  kind  of  local 
Chinese"  but  ''a  special  kind  of  Filipino." 

The  eighteenth-century  expulsion  edicts  had  given  the  Chinese 
mestizos  the  opportunity  to  enter  retailing  and  the  skilled  craft  oc- 
cupations formerly  dominated  by  the  Chinese.  The  removal  of  le- 
gal restrictions  on  Chinese  economic  activity  and  the  competition 
of  new  Chinese  immigrants,  however,  drove  a  large  number  of  mes- 
tizos out  of  the  commercial  sector  in  mid-nineteenth  century.  As 
a  result,  many  Chinese  mestizos  invested  in  land,  particularly  in 
Central  Luzon.  The  estates  of  the  religious  orders  were  concen- 
trated in  this  region,  and  mestizos  became  inquilinos  (lessees)  of  these 
lands,  subletting  them  to  cultivators;  a  portion  of  the  rent  was  given 
by  the  inquilinos  to  the  friary  estate.  Like  the  Chinese,  the  mestizos 
were  moneylenders  and  acquired  land  when  debtors  defaulted. 

By  the  late  nineteenth  century,  prominent  mestizo  families, 
despite  the  inroads  of  the  Chinese,  were  noted  for  their  wealth  and 
formed  the  major  component  of  a  Filipino  elite.  As  the  export  econ- 
omy grew  and  foreign  contact  increased,  the  mestizos  and  other 
members  of  this  Filipino  elite,  known  collectively  as  ilustrados  (see 
Glossary),  obtained  higher  education  (in  some  cases  abroad),  en- 
tered professions  such  as  law  or  medicine,  and  were  particularly 
receptive  to  the  liberal  and  democratic  ideas  that  were  beginning 
to  reach  the  Philippines  despite  the  efforts  of  the  generally 
reactionary — and  friar-dominated — Spanish  establishment. 

The  Friarocracy 

The  power  of  religious  orders  remained  one  of  the  great  con- 
stants, over  the  centuries,  of  Spanish  colonial  rule.  Even  in  the  late 
nineteenth  century,  the  friars  of  the  Augustinian,  Dominican,  and 
Franciscan  orders  conducted  many  of  the  executive  and  control 
functions  of  government  on  the  local  level.  They  were  responsible 
for  education  and  health  measures,  kept  the  census  and  tax  records, 
reported  on  the  character  and  behavior  of  individual  villagers,  su- 
pervised the  selection  of  local  police  and  town  officers,  and  were 
responsible  for  maintaining  public  morals  and  reporting  incidences 
of  sedition  to  the  authorities.  Contrary  to  the  principles  of  the 


12 


Historical  Setting 


church,  they  allegedly  used  information  gained  in  confession  to  pin- 
point troublemakers.  Given  the  minuscule  number  of  Spanish  living 
outside  the  capital  even  in  the  nineteenth  century,  the  friars  were 
regarded  as  indispensable  instruments  of  Spanish  rule  that  con- 
temporary critics  labeled  a  "friarocracy"  (Jrialocracia). 

Controversies  over  visitation  and  secularization  were  persistent 
themes  in  Philippine  church  history.  Visitation  involved  the  authori- 
ty of  the  bishops  of  the  church  hierarchy  to  inspect  and  discipline 
the  religious  orders,  a  principle  laid  down  in  church  law  and  prac- 
ticed in  most  of  the  Catholic  world.  The  friars  were  successful  in 
resisting  the  efforts  of  the  archbishop  of  Manila  to  impose  visita- 
tion; consequently,  they  operated  without  formal  supervision 
except  that  of  their  own  provincials  or  regional  superiors.  Secular- 
ization meant  the  replacement  of  the  friars,  who  came  exclusively 
from  Spain,  with  Filipino  priests  ordained  by  the  local  bishop.  This 
movement,  again,  was  successfully  resisted,  as  friars  through  the 
centuries  kept  up  the  argument,  often  couched  in  crude  racial  terms, 
that  Filipino  priests  were  too  poorly  qualified  to  take  on  parish 
duties.  Although  church  policy  dictated  that  religious  orders  relin- 
quish parishes  of  countries  converted  to  Christianity  to  indigenous 
diocesan  priests,  in  1870  only  181  out  of  792  parishes  in  the  is- 
lands had  Filipino  priests.  The  national  and  racial  dimensions  of 
secularization  meant  that  the  issue  became  linked  with  broader  de- 
mands for  political  reform. 

The  economic  position  of  the  orders  was  secured  by  their  exten- 
sive landholdings,  which  generally  had  been  donated  to  them  for 
the  support  of  their  churches,  schools,  and  other  establishments. 
Given  the  general  lack  of  interest  on  the  part  of  Spanish  colonials — 
clustered  in  Manila  and  dependent  on  the  galleon  trade — in  de- 
veloping agriculture,  the  religious  orders  had  become  by  the  eigh- 
teenth century  the  largest  landholders  in  the  islands,  with  their  es- 
tates concentrated  in  the  Central  Luzon  region.  Land  rents — paid 
often  by  Chinese  mestizo  inquilinos,  who  planted  cash  crops  for 
export — provided  them  with  the  sort  of  income  that  enabled  many 
friars  to  live  like  princes  in  palatial  establishments. 

Central  to  the  friars'  dominant  position  was  their  monopoly  of 
education  at  all  levels  and  thus  their  control  over  cultural  and  intel- 
lectual life.  In  1863  the  Spanish  government  decreed  that  a  system 
of  free  public  primary  education  be  established  in  the  islands,  which 
could  have  been  interpreted  as  a  threat  to  this  monopoly.  By  1867 
there  were  593  primary  schools  enrolling  138,990  students;  by  1877 
the  numbers  had  grown  to  1,608  schools  and  177,113  students; 
and  in  1898  there  were  2,150  schools  and  over  200,000  students 
out  of  a  total  population  of  approximately  6  million.  The  friars, 


13 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

however,  were  given  the  responsibility  of  supervising  the  system 
both  on  the  local  and  the  national  levels.  The  Jesuits  were  given 
control  of  the  teacher-training  colleges.  Except  for  the  Jesuits,  the 
religious  orders  were  strongly  opposed  to  the  teaching  of  modern 
foreign  languages,  including  Spanish,  and  scientific  and  technical 
subjects  to  the  indios  (literally,  Indians;  the  Spanish  term  for  Filipi- 
nos). In  1898  the  University  of  Santo  Tomas  taught  essentially  the 
same  courses  that  it  did  in  1611,  when  it  was  founded  by  the 
Dominicans,  twenty-one  years  before  Galileo  was  brought  before 
the  Inquisition  for  publishing  the  idea  that  the  earth  revolved  around 
the  sun. 

The  friarocracy  seems  to  have  had  more  than  its  share  of  per- 
sonal irregularities,  and  the  priestly  vow  of  chastity  often  was  hon- 
ored in  the  breach.  In  the  eyes  of  educated  Filipino  priests  and 
laymen,  however,  most  inexcusable  was  the  friars'  open  attitude 
of  contempt  toward  the  people.  By  the  late  nineteenth  century,  their 
attitude  was  one  of  blatant  racism.  In  the  words  of  one  friar, 
responding  to  the  challenge  of  the  ilustrados,  "the  only  liberty  the 
Indians  want  is  the  liberty  of  savages.  Leave  them  to  their  cock- 
fighting  and  their  indolence,  and  they  will  thank  you  more  than 
if  you  load  them  down  with  old  and  new  rights." 

Apolinario  de  la  Cruz,  a  Tagalog  (see  Glossary)  who  led  the 
1839-41  Cofradia  de  San  Jose  revolt,  embodied  the  religious  aspi- 
rations and  disappointments  of  the  Filipinos.  A  pious  individual 
who  sought  to  enter  a  religious  order,  he  made  repeated  applica- 
tions that  were  turned  down  by  the  racially  conscious  friars,  and 
he  was  left  with  no  alternative  but  to  become  a  humble  lay  brother 
performing  menial  tasks  at  a  charitable  institution  in  Manila.  While 
serving  in  that  capacity,  he  started  the  cofradia  (confraternity  or 
brotherhood),  a  society  to  promote  Roman  Catholic  devotion 
among  Filipinos.  From  1839  to  1840,  Brother  Apolinario  sent 
representatives  to  his  native  Tayabas,  south  of  Laguna  de  Bay, 
to  recruit  members,  and  the  movement  rapidly  spread  as  cells  were 
established  throughout  the  southern  Tagalog  area.  Originally,  the 
cofradia  was  apparently  neither  anti- Spanish  nor  nativist  in  religious 
orientation,  although  native  elements  were  prevalent  among  its 
provincial  followers.  Yet  its  emphasis  on  secrecy,  the  strong  bond 
of  loyalty  its  members  felt  for  Brother  Apolinario,  and,  above  all, 
the  fact  that  it  barred  Spanish  and  mestizos  from  membership 
aroused  the  suspicions  of  the  authorities.  The  cofradia  was  banned 
by  the  authorities  in  1840. 

In  the  autumn  of  1841  Brother  Apolinario  left  Manila  and 
gathered  his  followers,  then  numbering  several  thousands  armed 
with  rifles  and  bolos  (heavy,  single-bladed  knives),  at  bases  in  the 


14 


Interior  view  of  St.  Augustine's  Church,  Manila, 
dating  from  the  late  sixteenth  century 
Courtesy  Robert  L.  W or  den 

villages  around  the  town  of  Tayabas;  as  a  spiritual  leader,  he 
preached  that  God  would  deliver  the  Tagalog  people  from  slav- 
ery. Although  the  rebel  force,  aided  by  Negrito  hill  tribesmen,  was 
able  to  defeat  a  detachment  led  by  the  provincial  governor  in  late 
October,  a  much  larger  Spanish  force  composed  of  soldiers  from 
Pampanga  Province — the  elite  of  the  Philippine  military  establish- 
ment and  traditional  enemies  of  the  Tagalogs — took  the  cofradia 
camp  at  Alitao  after  a  great  slaughter  on  November  1,  1841. 

The  insurrection  effectively  ended  with  the  betrayal  and  cap- 
ture of  Brother  Apolinario.  He  was  executed  on  November  5,  1841 . 
Survivors  of  the  movement  became  remontados  (those  who  go  back 
into  the  mountains),  leaving  their  villages  to  live  on  the  slopes  of 
the  volcanic  Mount  San  Cristobal  and  Mount  Banahao,  within  sight 
of  Alitao.  These  mountains,  where  no  friar  ventured,  became  folk 
religious  centers,  places  of  pilgrimage  for  lowland  peasants,  and 
the  birthplace  of  religious  communities  known  as  colorums  (see 
Glossary). 

The  Development  of  a  National  Consciousness 

Religious  movements  such  as  the  cofradia  and  colorums  expressed 
an  inchoate  desire  of  their  members  to  be  rid  of  the  Spanish  and 


15 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

discover  a  promised  land  that  would  reflect  memories  of  a  world 
that  existed  before  the  coming  of  the  colonists.  Nationalism  in  the 
modern  sense  developed  in  an  urban  context,  in  Manila  and  the 
major  towns  and,  perhaps  more  significantly,  in  Spain  and  other 
parts  of  Europe  where  Filipino  students  and  exiles  were  exposed 
to  modern  intellectual  currents.  Folk  religion,  for  all  its  power,  did 
not  form  the  basis  of  the  national  ideology.  Yet  the  millenarian 
tradition  of  rural  revolt  would  merge  with  the  Europeanized  na- 
tionalism of  the  ilustrados  to  spur  a  truly  national  resistance,  first 
against  Spain  in  1896  and  then  against  the  Americans  in  1899. 

Following  the  Spanish  revolution  of  September  1868,  in  which 
the  unpopular  Queen  Isabella  II  was  deposed,  the  new  government 
appointed  General  Carlos  Maria  de  la  Torre  governor  of  the  Philip- 
pines. An  outspoken  liberal,  de  la  Torre  extended  to  Filipinos  the 
promise  of  reform.  In  a  break  with  established  practice,  he  frater- 
nized with  Filipinos,  invited  them  to  the  governor's  palace,  and 
rode  with  them  in  official  processions.  Filipinos  in  turn  welcomed 
de  la  Torre  warmly,  held  a  "liberty  parade"  to  celebrate  the  adop- 
tion of  the  liberal  1869  Spanish  constitution,  and  established  a  re- 
form committee  to  lay  the  foundations  of  a  new  order.  Prominent 
among  de  la  Torre's  supporters  in  Manila  were  professional  and 
business  leaders  of  the  ilustrado  community  and,  perhaps  more  sig- 
nificantly, Filipino  secular  priests.  These  included  the  learned  Father 
Jose  Burgos,  a  Spanish  mestizo,  who  had  published  a  pamphlet, 
Manifesto  to  the  Noble  Spanish  Nation,  criticizing  those  racially 
prejudiced  Spanish  who  barred  Filipinos  from  the  priesthood  and 
government  service.  For  a  brief  time,  the  tide  seemed  to  be  turn- 
ing against  the  friars.  In  December  1870,  the  archbishop  of  Manila, 
Gregorio  Meliton  Martinez,  wrote  to  the  Spanish  regent  advocat- 
ing secularization  and  warning  that  discrimination  against  Filipino 
priests  would  encourage  anti-Spanish  sentiments. 

According  to  historian  Austin  Coates,  "1869  and  1870  stand  dis- 
tinct and  apart  from  the  whole  of  the  rest  of  the  period  as  a  time 
when  for  a  brief  moment  a  real  breath  of  the  nineteenth  century 
penetrated  the  Islands,  which  till  then  had  been  living  largely  in 
the  seventeenth  century."  De  la  Torre  abolished  censorship  of 
newspapers  and  legalized  the  holding  of  public  demonstrations,  free 
speech,  and  assembly — rights  guaranteed  in  the  1869  Spanish  con- 
stitution. Students  at  the  University  of  Santo  Tomas  formed  an 
association,  the  Liberal  Young  Students  (Juventud  Escolar  Liber- 
al), and  in  October  1869  held  demonstrations  protesting  the  abuses 
of  the  university's  Dominican  friar  administrators  and  teachers. 

The  liberal  period  came  to  an  abrupt  end  in  1871.  Friars  and 
other  conservative  Spaniards  in  Manila  managed  to  engineer  the 


16 


Historical  Setting 


replacement  of  de  la  Torre  by  a  more  conservative  figure,  Rafael 
de  Izquierdo,  who,  following  his  installation  as  governor  in  April 
1871,  reimposed  the  severities  of  the  old  regime.  He  is  alleged  to 
have  boasted  that  he  came  to  the  islands  "with  a  crucifix  in  one 
hand  and  a  sword  in  the  other. "  Liberal  laws  were  rescinded,  and 
the  enthusiastic  Filipino  supporters  of  de  la  Torre  came  under  po- 
litical suspicion. 

The  heaviest  blow  came  after  a  mutiny  on  January  20,  1872, 
when  about  200  Filipino  dockworkers  and  soldiers  in  Cavite 
Province  revolted  and  killed  their  Spanish  officers,  apparently  in 
the  mistaken  belief  that  a  general  uprising  was  in  progress  among 
Filipino  regiments  in  Manila.  Grievances  connected  with  the 
government's  revocation  of  old  privileges — particularly  exemption 
from  tribute  service — inspired  the  revolt,  which  was  put  down  by 
January  22.  The  authorities,  however,  began  weaving  a  tale  of  con- 
spiracy between  the  mutineers  and  prominent  members  of  the  Filipi- 
no community,  particularly  diocesan  priests.  The  governor  asserted 
that  a  secret  junta,  with  connections  to  liberal  parties  in  Spain, 
existed  in  Manila  and  was  ready  to  overthrow  Spanish  rule. 

A  military  court  sentenced  to  death  the  three  Filipino  priests  most 
closely  associated  with  liberal  reformism — Jose  Burgos,  Mariano 
Gomez,  and  Jacinto  Zamora — and  exiled  a  number  of  prominent 
ilustrados  to  Guam  and  the  Marianas  (then  Spanish  possessions), 
from  which  they  escaped  to  carry  on  the  struggle  from  Hong  Kong, 
Singapore,  and  Europe.  Archbishop  Martinez  requested  that  the 
governor  commute  the  priests'  death  sentences  and  refused  the 
governor's  order  that  they  be  defrocked.  Martinez's  efforts  were 
in  vain,  however,  and  on  February  17,  1872,  they  were  publicly 
executed  with  the  brutal  garrote  on  the  Luneta  (the  broad  park 
facing  Manila  Bay).  The  archbishop  ordered  that  Manila  church 
bells  toll  a  requiem  for  the  victims,  a  requiem  that  turned  out  to 
be  for  Spanish  rule  in  the  islands  as  well.  Although  a  policy  of  ac- 
commodation would  have  won  the  loyalty  of  peasant  and  ilustrado 
alike,  intransigence — particularly  on  the  question  of  the  seculari- 
zation of  the  clergy — led  increasing  numbers  of  Filipinos  to  ques- 
tion the  need  for  a  continuing  association  with  Spain. 

Jose  Rizal  and  the  Propaganda  Movement 

Between  1872  and  1892,  a  national  consciousness  was  growing 
among  the  Filipino  emigres  who  had  settled  in  Europe.  In  the  freer 
atmosphere  of  Europe,  these  emigres — liberals  exiled  in  1872  and 
students  attending  European  universities — formed  the  Propagan- 
da Movement.  Organized  for  literary  and  cultural  purposes  more 
than  for  political  ends,  the  Propagandists,  who  included  upper-class 


17 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Filipinos  from  all  the  lowland  Christian  areas,  strove  to  "awaken 
the  sleeping  intellect  of  the  Spaniard  to  the  needs  of  our  country" 
and  to  create  a  closer,  more  equal  association  of  the  islands  and 
the  motherland.  Among  their  specific  goals  were  representation  of 
the  Philippines  in  the  Cortes,  or  Spanish  parliament;  seculariza- 
tion of  the  clergy;  legalization  of  Spanish  and  Filipino  equality; 
creation  of  a  public  school  system  independent  of  the  friars;  aboli- 
tion of  the  polo  (labor  service)  and  vandala  (forced  sale  of  local 
products  to  the  government);  guarantee  of  basic  freedoms  of  speech 
and  association;  and  equal  opportunity  for  Filipinos  and  Spanish 
to  enter  government  service. 

The  most  outstanding  Propagandist  was  Jose  Rizal,  a  physician, 
scholar,  scientist,  and  writer.  Born  in  1861  into  a  prosperous 
Chinese  mestizo  family  in  Laguna  Province,  he  displayed  great 
intelligence  at  an  early  age.  After  several  years  of  medical  study 
at  the  University  of  Santo  Tomas,  he  went  to  Spain  in  1882  to  fin- 
ish his  studies  at  the  University  of  Madrid.  During  the  decade  that 
followed,  Rizal' s  career  spanned  two  worlds:  Among  small  com- 
munities of  Filipino  students  in  Madrid  and  other  European  cities, 
he  became  a  leader  and  eloquent  spokesman,  and  in  the  wider  world 
of  European  science  and  scholarship — particularly  in  Germany — he 
formed  close  relationships  with  prominent  natural  and  social  scien- 
tists. The  new  discipline  of  anthropology  was  of  special  interest  to 
him;  he  was  committed  to  refuting  the  friars'  stereotypes  of  Filipino 
racial  inferiority  with  scientific  arguments.  His  greatest  impact  on 
the  development  of  a  Filipino  national  consciousness,  however,  was 
his  publication  of  two  novels — Noli  Me  Tangere  (Touch  Me  Not) 
in  1886  and  El  Filibusterismo  (The  Reign  of  Greed)  in  1891.  Rizal 
drew  on  his  personal  experiences  and  depicted  the  conditions  of 
Spanish  rule  in  the  islands,  particularly  the  abuses  of  the  friars. 
Although  the  friars  had  Rizal' s  books  banned,  they  were  smug- 
gled into  the  Philippines  and  rapidly  gained  a  wide  readership. 

Other  important  Propagandists  included  Graciano  Lopez  Jae- 
na,  a  noted  orator  and  pamphleteer  who  had  left  the  islands  for 
Spain  in  1880  after  the  publication  of  his  satirical  short  novel,  Fray 
Botod  (Brother  Fatso),  an  unflattering  portrait  of  a  provincial  friar. 
In  1889  he  established  a  biweekly  newspaper  in  Barcelona,  La 
Solidaridad  (Solidarity),  which  became  the  principal  organ  of  the 
Propaganda  Movement,  having  audiences  both  in  Spain  and  in  the 
islands.  Its  contributors  included  Rizal;  Dr.  Ferdinand  Blumen- 
tritt,  an  Austrian  geographer  and  ethnologist  whom  Rizal  had  met 
in  Germany;  and  Marcelo  del  Pilar,  a  reform-minded  lawyer.  Del 
Pilar  was  active  in  the  antifriar  movement  in  the  islands  until 


18 


Ruins  of  Fort  Santiago,  with  Rizal  Museum  in  background 
Courtesy  Philippine  Tourist  Research  and  Planning  Organization 

obliged  to  flee  to  Spain  in  1888,  where  he  became  editor  of  La  Soli- 
daridad  and  assumed  leadership  of  the  Filipino  community  in  Spain. 

In  1887  Rizal  returned  briefly  to  the  islands,  but  because  of  the 
furor  surrounding  the  appearance  of  Noli  Me  Tangere  the  previous 
year,  he  was  advised  by  the  governor  to  leave.  He  returned  to  Eu- 
rope by  way  of  Japan  and  North  America  to  complete  his  second 
novel  and  an  edition  of  Antonio  de  Morga's  seventeenth-century 
work,  Sucesos  de  las  Islas  Filipinos  (History  of  the  Philippine  Islands). 
The  latter  project  stemmed  from  an  ethnological  interest  in  the  cul- 
tural connections  between  the  peoples  of  the  pre-Spanish  Philip- 
pines and  those  of  the  larger  Malay  region  (including  modern 
Malaysia  and  Indonesia)  and  the  closely  related  political  objective 
of  encouraging  national  pride.  De  Morga  provided  positive  infor- 
mation about  the  islands'  early  inhabitants  and  reliable  accounts 
of  pre-Christian  religion  and  social  customs. 

After  a  stay  in  Europe  and  Hong  Kong,  Rizal  returned  to  the 
Philippines  in  June  1892,  partly  because  the  Dominicans  had  evicted 
his  father  and  sisters  from  the  land  they  leased  from  the  friars'  es- 
tate at  Calamba,  in  Laguna  Province.  He  also  was  convinced  that 
the  struggle  for  reform  could  no  longer  be  conducted  effectively 
from  overseas.  In  July  he  established  the  Liga  Filipina  (Philippine 
League),  designed  to  be  a  truly  national,  nonviolent  organization. 


19 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

It  was  dissolved,  however,  following  his  arrest  and  exile  to  the  re- 
mote town  of  Dapitan  in  northwestern  Mindanao. 

The  Propaganda  Movement  languished  after  Rizal's  arrest  and 
the  collapse  of  the  Liga  Filipina.  La  Solidaridad  went  out  of  busi- 
ness in  November  1895,  and  in  1896  both  del  Pilar  and  Lopez  Jaena 
died  in  Barcelona,  worn  down  by  poverty  and  disappointment.  An 
attempt  was  made  to  reestablish  the  Liga  Filipina,  but  the  nation- 
al movement  had  become  split  between  ilustrado  advocates  of  re- 
form and  peaceful  evolution  (the  compromisarios,  or  compromisers) 
and  a  plebeian  constituency  that  wanted  revolution  and  national 
independence.  Because  the  Spanish  refused  to  allow  genuine  re- 
form, the  initiative  quickly  passed  from  the  former  group  to  the 
latter. 

The  Katipunan 

After  Rizal's  arrest  and  exile,  Andres  Bonifacio,  a  self-educated 
man  of  humble  origins,  founded  a  secret  society,  the  Katipunan, 
in  Manila.  This  organization,  modeled  in  part  on  Masonic  lodges, 
was  committed  to  winning  independence  from  Spain.  Rizal,  Lo- 
pez Jaena,  del  Pilar,  and  other  leaders  of  the  Propaganda  Move- 
ment had  been  Masons,  and  Masonry  was  regarded  by  the  Catholic 
Church  as  heretical.  The  Katipunan,  like  the  Masonic  lodges,  had 
secret  passwords  and  ceremonies,  and  its  members  were  organized 
into  ranks  or  degrees,  each  having  different  colored  hoods,  special 
passwords,  and  secret  formulas.  New  members  went  through  a 
rigorous  initiation,  which  concluded  with  thepacto  de  sangre,  or  blood 
compact. 

The  Katipunan  spread  gradually  from  the  Tondo  district  of 
Manila,  where  Bonifacio  had  founded  it,  to  the  provinces,  and  by 
August  1896 — on  the  eve  of  the  revolt  against  Spain — it  had  some 
30,000  members,  both  men  and  women.  Most  of  them  were  mem- 
bers of  the  lower-  and  lower-middle-income  strata,  including  peas- 
ants. The  nationalist  movement  had  effectively  moved  from  the 
closed  circle  of  prosperous  ilustrados  to  a  truly  popular  base  of  support. 

The  1896  Uprising  and  Rizal's  Execution 

During  the  early  years  of  the  Katipunan,  Rizal  remained  in  ex- 
ile at  Dapitan.  He  had  promised  the  Spanish  governor  that  he  would 
not  attempt  an  escape,  which,  in  that  remote  part  of  the  country, 
would  have  been  relatively  easy.  Such  a  course  of  action,  however, 
would  have  both  compromised  the  moderate  reform  policy  that  he 
still  advocated  and  confirmed  the  suspicions  of  the  reactionary  Span- 
ish. Whether  he  came  to  support  Philippine  independence  during 
his  period  of  exile  is  difficult  to  determine. 


20 


Historical  Setting 


Rizal  retained,  to  the  very  end,  a  faith  in  the  decency  of  Span- 
ish "men  of  honor,"  which  made  it  difficult  for  him  to  accept  the 
revolutionary  course  of  the  Katipunan.  Revolution  had  broken  out 
in  Cuba  in  February  1895,  and  Rizal  applied  to  the  governor  to 
be  sent  to  that  yellow  fever-infested  island  as  an  army  doctor,  be- 
lieving that  it  was  the  only  way  he  could  keep  his  word  to  the  gover- 
nor and  yet  get  out  of  his  exile.  His  request  was  granted,  and  he 
was  preparing  to  leave  for  Cuba  when  the  Katipunan  revolt  broke 
out  in  August  1896.  An  informer  had  tipped  off  a  Spanish  friar 
about  the  society's  existence,  and  Bonifacio,  his  hand  forced, 
proclaimed  the  revolution,  attacking  Spanish  military  installations 
on  August  29,  1896.  Rizal  was  allowed  to  leave  Manila  on  a  Spanish 
steamship.  The  governor,  however,  apparently  forced  by  reaction- 
ary elements,  ordered  Rizal 's  arrest  en  route,  and  he  was  sent  back 
to  Manila  to  be  tried  by  a  military  court  as  an  accomplice  of  the 
insurrection. 

The  rebels  were  poorly  led  and  had  few  successes  against  colonial 
troops.  Only  in  Cavite  Province  did  they  make  any  headway.  Com- 
manded by  Emilio  Aguinaldo,  the  twenty-seven-year-old  mayor 
of  the  town  of  Cavite  who  had  been  a  member  of  the  Katipunan 
since  1895,  the  rebels  defeated  Civil  Guard  and  regular  colonial 
troops  between  August  and  November  1896  and  made  the  province 
the  center  of  the  revolution. 

Under  a  new  governor,  who  apparently  had  been  sponsored  as 
a  hard-line  candidate  by  the  religious  orders,  Rizal  was  brought 
before  a  military  court  on  fabricated  charges  of  involvement  with 
the  Katipunan.  The  events  of  1872  repeated  themselves.  A  brief 
trial  was  held  on  December  26  and — with  little  chance  to  defend 
himself — Rizal  was  found  guilty  and  sentenced  to  death.  On  De- 
cember 30,  1896,  he  was  brought  out  to  the  Luneta  and  executed 
by  a  firing  squad. 

Rizal 's  death  filled  the  rebels  with  new  determination,  but  the 
Katipunan  was  becoming  divided  between  supporters  of  Bonifa- 
cio, who  revealed  himself  to  be  an  increasingly  ineffective  leader, 
and  its  rising  star,  Aguinaldo.  At  a  convention  held  at  Tejeros, 
the  Katipunan 's  headquarters  in  March  1897,  delegates  elected 
Aguinaldo  president  and  demoted  Bonifacio  to  the  post  of  direc- 
tor of  the  interior.  Bonifacio  withdrew  with  his  supporters  and 
formed  his  own  government.  After  fighting  broke  out  between 
Bonifacio's  and  Aguinaldo 's  troops,  Bonifacio  was  arrested,  tried, 
and  on  May  10,  1897,  executed  by  order  of  Aguinaldo. 

As  1897  wore  on,  Aguinaldo  himself  suffered  reverses  at  the  hands 
of  Spanish  troops,  being  forced  from  Cavite  in  June  and  retreating 
to  Biak-na-Bato  in  Bulacan  Province.  The  futility  of  the  struggle 


21 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

was  becoming  apparent,  however,  on  both  sides.  Although  Span- 
ish troops  were  able  to  defeat  insurgents  on  the  batdefleld,  they 
could  not  suppress  guerrilla  activity.  In  August  armistice  negotia- 
tions were  opened  between  Aguinaldo  and  a  new  Spanish  gover- 
nor. By  mid-December,  an  agreement  was  reached  in  which  the 
governor  would  pay  Aguinaldo  the  equivalent  of  US$800,000,  and 
the  rebel  leader  and  his  government  would  go  into  exile.  Aguinaldo 
established  himself  in  Hong  Kong,  and  the  Spanish  bought  them- 
selves time.  Within  the  year,  however,  their  more  than  three  cen- 
turies of  rule  in  the  islands  would  come  to  an  abrupt  and  unexpected 
end. 

Spanish-American  War  and  Philippine  Resistance 
Outbreak  of  War,  1898 

Spain's  rule  in  the  Philippines  came  to  an  end  as  a  result  of  Unit- 
ed States  involvement  with  Spain's  other  major  colony,  Cuba. 
American  business  interests  were  anxious  for  a  resolution — with 
or  without  Spain — of  the  insurrection  that  had  broken  out  in  Cuba 
in  February  1895.  Moreover,  public  opinion  in  the  United  States 
had  been  aroused  by  newspaper  accounts  of  the  brutalities  of  Span- 
ish rule.  When  the  United  States  declared  war  on  Spain  on  April 
25,  1898,  acting  Secretary  of  the  Navy  Theodore  Roosevelt  ordered 
Commodore  George  Dewey,  commander  of  the  Asiatic  Squadron, 
to  sail  to  the  Philippines  and  destroy  the  Spanish  fleet  anchored 
in  Manila  Bay.  The  Spanish  navy,  which  had  seen  its  apogee  in 
the  support  of  a  global  empire  in  the  sixteenth  century,  suffered 
an  inglorious  defeat  on  May  1,  1898,  as  Spain's  antiquated  fleet, 
including  ships  with  wooden  hulls,  was  sunk  by  the  guns  of  Dewey's 
flagship,  the  Olympia,  and  other  United  States  warships.  More  than 
380  Spanish  sailors  died,  but  there  was  only  one  American  fatality. 

As  Spain  and  the  United  States  had  moved  toward  war  over  Cuba 
in  the  last  months  of  1897,  negotiations  of  a  highly  tentative  na- 
ture began  between  United  States  officials  and  Aguinaldo  in  both 
Hong  Kong  and  Singapore.  When  war  was  declared,  Aguinaldo, 
a  partner,  if  not  an  ally,  of  the  United  States,  was  urged  by  Dewey 
to  return  to  the  islands  as  quickly  as  possible.  Arriving  in  Manila 
on  May  19,  Aguinaldo  reassumed  command  of  rebel  forces.  In- 
surrectionists overwhelmed  demoralized  Spanish  garrisons  around 
the  capital  and  established  links  with  other  movements  through- 
out the  islands. 

In  the  eyes  of  the  Filipinos,  their  relationship  with  the  United 
States  was  that  of  two  nations  joined  in  a  common  struggle  against 
Spain.  As  allies,  the  Filipinos  provided  American  forces  with 


22 


Historical  Setting 


valuable  intelligence  (e.g. ,  that  the  Spanish  had  no  mines  or  torpe- 
does with  which  to  sink  warships  entering  Manila  Bay),  and 
Aguinaldo's  12,000  troops  kept  a  slightly  larger  Spanish  force  bot- 
tled up  inside  Manila  until  American  troop  reinforcements  could 
arrive  from  San  Francisco  in  late  June.  Aguinaldo  was  unhappy, 
however,  that  the  United  States  would  not  commit  to  paper  a  state- 
ment of  support  for  Philippine  independence. 

By  late  May,  the  United  States  Department  of  the  Navy  had 
ordered  Dewey,  newly  promoted  to  Admiral,  to  distance  himself 
from  Aguinaldo  lest  he  make  untoward  commitments  to  the  Philip- 
pine forces.  The  war  with  Spain  still  was  going  on,  and  the  future 
of  the  Philippines  remained  uncertain.  The  immediate  objective 
was  to  capture  Manila,  and  it  was  thought  best  to  do  that  without 
the  assistance  of  the  insurgents.  By  late  July,  there  were  some  12,000 
United  States  troops  in  the  area,  and  relations  between  them  and 
rebel  forces  deteriorated  rapidly. 

By  the  summer  of  1898,  Manila  had  become  the  focus  not  only 
of  the  Spanish- American  conflict  and  the  growing  suspicions  be- 
tween the  Americans  and  Filipino  rebels  but  also  of  a  rivalry  that 
encompassed  the  European  powers.  Following  Dewey's  victory, 
Manila  Bay  was  filled  with  the  warships  of  Britain,  Germany, 
France,  and  Japan.  The  German  fleet  of  eight  ships,  ostensibly 
in  Philippine  waters  to  protect  German  interests  (a  single  import 
firm),  acted  provocatively — cutting  in  front  of  United  States  ships, 
refusing  to  salute  the  United  States  flag  (according  to  naval  courte- 
sy), taking  soundings  of  the  harbor,  and  landing  supplies  for  the 
besieged  Spanish.  Germany,  hungry  for  the  ultimate  status  sym- 
bol, a  colonial  empire,  was  eager  to  take  advantage  of  whatever 
opportunities  the  conflict  in  the  islands  might  afford.  Dewey  called 
the  bluff  of  the  German  admiral,  threatening  a  fight  if  his  aggres- 
sive activities  continued,  and  the  Germans  backed  down. 

The  Spanish  cause  was  doomed,  but  Fermin  Jaudenes,  Spain's 
last  governor  in  the  islands,  had  to  devise  a  way  to  salvage  the  honor 
of  his  country.  Negotiations  were  carried  out  through  British  and 
Belgian  diplomatic  intermediaries.  A  secret  agreement  was  made 
between  the  governor  and  United  States  military  commanders  in 
early  August  1898  concerning  the  capture  of  Manila.  In  their  as- 
sault, American  forces  would  neither  bombard  the  city  nor  allow 
the  insurgents  to  take  part  (the  Spanish  feared  that  the  Filipinos 
were  plotting  to  massacre  them  all).  The  Spanish,  in  turn,  would 
put  up  only  a  show  of  resistance  and,  on  a  prearranged  signal,  would 
surrender.  In  this  way,  the  governor  would  be  spared  the  ignomi- 
ny of  giving  up  without  a  fight,  and  both  sides  would  be  spared 
casualties.  The  mock  batde  was  staged  on  August  13.  The  attackers 


23 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

rushed  in,  and  by  afternoon  the  United  States  flag  was  flying  over 
Intramuros,  the  ancient  walled  city  that  had  been  the  seat  of  Spanish 
power  for  over  300  years. 

The  agreement  between  Jaudenes  and  Dewey  marked  a  curi- 
ous reversal  of  roles.  At  the  beginning  of  the  war,  Americans  and 
Filipinos  had  been  allies  against  Spain  in  all  but  name;  now  Span- 
ish and  Americans  were  in  a  partnership  that  excluded  the  insur- 
gents. Fighting  between  American  and  Filipino  troops  almost  broke 
out  as  the  former  moved  in  to  dislodge  the  latter  from  strategic 
positions  around  Manila  on  the  eve  of  the  attack.  Aguinaldo  was 
told  bluntly  by  the  Americans  that  his  army  could  not  participate 
and  would  be  fired  upon  if  it  crossed  into  the  city.  The  insurgents 
were  infuriated  at  being  denied  triumphant  entry  into  their  own 
capital,  but  Aguinaldo  bided  his  time.  Relations  continued  to  de- 
teriorate, however,  as  it  became  clear  to  Filipinos  that  the  Ameri- 
cans were  in  the  islands  to  stay. 

The  Malolos  Constitution  and  the  Treaty  of  Paris 

After  returning  to  the  islands,  Aguinaldo  wasted  little  time  in 
setting  up  an  independent  government.  On  June  12,  1898,  a  decla- 
ration of  independence,  modeled  on  the  American  one,  was 
proclaimed  at  his  headquarters  in  Cavite.  It  was  at  this  time  that 
Apolinario  Mabini,  a  lawyer  and  political  thinker,  came  to  promi- 
nence as  Aguinaldo' s  principal  adviser.  Born  into  a  poor  indio  fam- 
ily but  educated  at  the  University  of  Santo  Tomas,  he  advocated 
"simultaneous  external  and  internal  revolution,"  a  philosophy  that 
unsettled  the  more  conservative  landowners  and  ilustrados,  who  in- 
itially supported  Aguinaldo.  For  Mabini,  true  independence  for 
the  Philippines  would  mean  not  simply  liberation  from  Spain  (or 
from  any  other  colonial  power)  but  also  educating  the  people  for 
self-government  and  abandoning  the  paternalistic,  colonial  men- 
tality that  the  Spanish  had  cultivated  over  the  centuries.  Mabini' s 
The  True  Decalogue,  published  in  July  1898  in  the  form  of  ten  com- 
mandments, used  this  medium,  somewhat  paradoxically,  to  pro- 
mote critical  thinking  and  a  reform  of  customs  and  attitudes.  His 
Constitutional  Program  for  the  Philippine  Republic,  published  at  the  same 
time,  elaborated  his  ideas  on  political  institutions. 

On  September  15,  1898,  a  revolutionary  congress  was  convened 
at  Malolos,  a  market  town  located  thirty- two  kilometers  north  of 
Manila,  for  the  purpose  of  drawing  up  a  constitution  for  the  new 
republic.  A  document  was  approved  by  the  congress  on  Novem- 
ber 29,  1898.  Modeled  on  the  constitutions  of  France,  Belgium, 
and  Latin  American  countries,  it  was  promulgated  at  Malolos  on 


24 


Historical  Setting 


January  21,  1899,  and  two  days  later  Aguinaldo  was  inaugurated 
as  president. 

American  observers  traveling  in  Luzon  commented  that  the  areas 
controlled  by  the  republic  seemed  peaceful  and  well  governed.  The 
Malolos  congress  had  set  up  schools,  a  military  academy,  and  the 
Literary  University  of  the  Philippines.  Government  finances  were 
organized,  and  new  currency  was  issued.  The  army  and  navy  were 
established  on  a  regular  basis,  having  regional  commands.  The  ac- 
complishments of  the  Filipino  government,  however,  counted  for 
little  in  the  eyes  of  the  great  powers  as  the  transfer  of  the  islands 
from  Spanish  to  United  States  rule  was  arranged  in  the  closing 
months  of  1898. 

In  late  September,  treaty  negotiations  were  initiated  between 
Spanish  and  American  representatives  in  Paris.  The  Treaty  of  Paris 
was  signed  on  December  10,  1898.  Among  its  conditions  was  the 
cession  of  the  Philippines,  Guam,  and  Puerto  Rico  to  the  United 
States  (Cuba  was  granted  its  independence);  in  return,  the  Unit- 
ed States  would  pay  Spain  the  sum  of  US$20  million.  The  nature 
of  this  payment  is  rather  difficult  to  define;  it  was  paid  neither  to 
purchase  Spanish  territories  nor  as  a  war  indemnity.  In  the  words 
of  historian  Leon  Wolff ,  "It  was  .  .  .  a  gift.  Spain  accepted  it.  Quite 
irrelevantly  she  handed  us  the  Philippines.  No  question  of  honor 
or  conquest  was  involved.  The  Filipino  people  had  nothing  to  say 
about  it,  although  their  rebellion  was  thrown  in  (so  to  speak)  free 
of  charge."  The  Treaty  of  Paris  aroused  anger  among  Filipinos. 
Reacting  to  the  US$20  million  sum  paid  to  Spain,  La  Independencia 
(Independence),  a  newspaper  published  in  Manila  by  a  revolution- 
ary, General  Antonio  Luna,  stated  that  "people  are  not  to  be  bought 
and  sold  like  horses  and  houses.  If  the  aim  has  been  to  abolish  the 
traffic  in  Negroes  because  it  meant  the  sale  of  persons,  why  is  there 
still  maintained  the  sale  of  countries  with  inhabitants?"  Tension 
and  ill  feelings  were  growing  between  the  American  troops  in  Ma- 
nila and  the  insurgents  surrounding  the  capital.  In  addition  to 
Manila,  Iloilo,  the  main  port  on  the  island  of  Panay,  also  was  a 
pressure  point.  The  Revolutionary  Government  of  the  Visayas  was 
proclaimed  there  on  November  17,  1898,  and  an  American  force 
stood  poised  to  capture  the  city.  Upon  the  announcement  of  the 
treaty,  the  radicals,  Mabini  and  Luna,  prepared  for  war,  and  provi- 
sional articles  were  added  to  the  constitution  giving  President 
Aguinaldo  dictatorial  powers  in  times  of  emergency.  President  Wil- 
liam McKinley  issued  a  proclamation  on  December  21,  1898, 
declaring  United  States  policy  to  be  one  of  "benevolent  assimila- 
tion" in  which  "the  mild  sway  of  justice  and  right"  would  be  sub- 
stituted for  "arbitrary  rule."  When  this  proclamation  was  published 


25 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


in  the  islands  on  January  4,  1899,  references  to  "American 
sovereignty"  having  been  prudently  deleted,  Aguinaldo  issued  his 
own  proclamation  that  condemned  "violent  and  aggressive  seizure" 
by  the  United  States  and  threatened  war. 

War  of  Resistance 

Hostilities  broke  out  on  the  night  of  February  4,  1899,  after  two 
American  privates  on  patrol  killed  three  Filipino  soldiers  in  a  suburb 
of  Manila.  Thus  began  a  war  that  would  last  for  more  than  two 
years.  Some  126,000  American  soldiers  would  be  committed  to  the 
conflict;  4,234  American  and  16,000  Filipino  soldiers,  part  of  a 
nationwide  guerrilla  movement  of  indeterminate  numbers,  died. 

The  Filipino  troops,  armed  with  old  rifles  and  bolos  and  carry- 
ing anting-anting  (magical  charms),  were  no  match  for  American 
troops  in  open  combat,  but  they  were  formidable  opponents  in  guer- 
rilla warfare.  For  General  Ewell  S.  Otis,  commander  of  the  Unit- 
ed States  forces,  who  had  been  appointed  military  governor  of  the 
Philippines,  the  conflict  began  auspiciously  with  the  expulsion  of 
the  rebels  from  Manila  and  its  suburbs  by  late  February  and  the 
capture  of  Malolos,  the  revolutionary  capital,  on  March  31,  1899. 
Aguinaldo  and  his  government  escaped,  however,  establishing  a 
new  capital  at  San  Isidro  in  Nueva  Ecija  Province.  The  Filipino 
cause  suffered  a  number  of  reverses.  The  attempts  of  Mabini  and 
his  successor  as  president  of  Aguinaldo 's  cabinet,  Pedro  Paterno, 
to  negotiate  an  armistice  in  May  1899  ended  in  failure  because 
Otis  insisted  on  unconditional  surrender. 

Still  more  serious  was  the  murder  of  Luna,  Aguinaldo 's  most 
capable  military  commander,  in  June.  Hot-tempered  and  cruel, 
Luna  collected  a  large  number  of  enemies  among  his  associates, 
and,  according  to  rumor,  his  death  was  ordered  by  Aguinaldo.  With 
his  best  commander  dead  and  his  troops  suffering  continued  defeats 
as  American  forces  pushed  into  northern  Luzon,  Aguinaldo  dis- 
solved the  regular  army  in  November  1899  and  ordered  the  estab- 
lishment of  decentralized  guerrilla  commands  in  each  of  several 
military  zones.  More  than  ever,  American  soldiers  knew  the  mis- 
eries of  fighting  an  enemy  that  was  able  to  move  at  will  within  the 
civilian  population  in  the  villages.  The  general  population,  caught 
between  Americans  and  rebels,  suffered  horribly. 

According  to  historian  Gregorio  Zaide,  as  many  as  200,000 
civilians  died,  largely  because  of  famine  and  disease,  by  the  end 
of  the  war.  Atrocities  were  committed  on  both  sides.  Although 
Aguinaldo' s  government  did  not  have  effective  authority  over  the 
whole  archipelago  and  resistance  was  strongest  and  best  organized 
in  the  Tagalog  area  of  Central  Luzon,  the  notion  entertained  by 


26 


Historical  Setting 


many  Americans  that  independence  was  supported  only  by  the 
"Tagalog  tribe"  was  refuted  by  the  fact  that  there  was  sustained 
fighting  in  the  Visayan  Islands  and  in  Mindanao.  Although  the 
ports  of  Iloilo  on  Panay  and  Cebu  on  Cebu  were  captured  in  Febru- 
ary 1899,  and  Tagbilaran,  capital  of  Bohol,  in  March,  guerrilla 
resistance  continued  in  the  mountainous  interiors  of  these  islands. 
Only  on  the  sugar-growing  island  of  Negros  did  the  local  authori- 
ties peacefully  accept  United  States  rule.  On  Mindanao  the  Unit- 
ed States  Army  faced  the  determined  opposition  of  Christian 
Filipinos  loyal  to  the  republic. 

Aguinaldo  was  captured  at  Palanan  on  March  23,  1901,  by  a 
force  of  Philippine  Scouts  loyal  to  the  United  States  and  was  brought 
back  to  Manila.  Convinced  of  the  futility  of  further  resistance,  he 
swore  allegiance  to  the  United  States  and  issued  a  proclamation 
calling  on  his  compatriots  to  lay  down  their  arms.  Yet  insurgent 
resistance  continued  in  various  parts  of  the  Philippines  until  1903. 

The  Moros  on  Mindanao  and  on  the  Sulu  Archipelago,  suspi- 
cious of  both  Christian  Filipino  insurrectionists  and  Americans, 
remained  for  the  most  part  neutral.  In  August  1899,  an  agreement 
had  been  signed  between  General  John  C.  Bates,  representing  the 
United  States  government,  and  the  sultan  of  Sulu,  Jamal-ul  Kir- 
am  II,  pledging  a  policy  of  noninterference  on  the  part  of  the  United 
States.  In  1903,  however,  a  Moro  province  was  established  by  the 
American  authorities,  and  a  more  forward  policy  was  implement- 
ed: slavery  was  outlawed,  schools  that  taught  a  non-Muslim  cur- 
riculum were  established,  and  local  governments  that  challenged 
the  authority  of  traditional  community  leaders  were  organized.  A 
new  legal  system  replaced  the  sharia,  or  Islamic  law.  United  States 
rule,  even  more  than  that  of  the  Spanish,  was  seen  as  a  challenge 
to  Islam.  Armed  resistance  grew,  and  the  Moro  province  remained 
under  United  States  military  rule  until  1914,  by  which  time  the 
major  Muslim  groups  had  been  subjugated  (see  Islam,  ch.  2). 

The  First  Phase  of  United  States  Rule,  1898-1935 

On  January  20,  1899,  President  McKinley  appointed  the  First 
Philippine  Commission  (the  Schurman  Commission),  a  five-person 
group  headed  by  Dr.  Jacob  Schurman,  president  of  Cornell  Univer- 
sity, and  including  Admiral  Dewey  and  General  Otis,  to  inves- 
tigate conditions  in  the  islands  and  make  recommendations.  In  the 
report  that  they  issued  to  the  president  the  following  year,  the  com- 
missioners acknowledged  Filipino  aspirations  for  independence;  they 
declared,  however,  that  the  Philippines  was  not  ready  for  it.  Specific 
recommendations  included  the  establishment  of  civilian  govern- 
ment as  rapidly  as  possible  (the  American  chief  executive  in  the 


27 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

islands  at  that  time  was  the  military  governor),  including  estab- 
lishment of  a  bicameral  legislature,  autonomous  governments  on 
the  provincial  and  municipal  levels,  and  a  system  of  free  public 
elementary  schools. 

The  Second  Philippine  Commission  (the  Taft  Commission),  ap- 
pointed by  McKinley  on  March  16,  1900,  and  headed  by  William 
Howard  Taft,  was  granted  legislative  as  well  as  limited  executive 
powers.  Between  September  1900  and  August  1902,  it  issued  499 
laws.  A  judicial  system  was  established,  including  a  Supreme  Court, 
and  a  legal  code  was  drawn  up  to  replace  antiquated  Spanish  or- 
dinances. A  civil  service  was  organized.  The  1901  municipal  code 
provided  for  popularly  elected  presidents,  vice  presidents,  and  coun- 
cilors to  serve  on  municipal  boards.  The  municipal  board  mem- 
bers were  responsible  for  collecting  taxes,  maintaining  municipal 
properties,  and  undertaking  necessary  construction  projects;  they 
also  elected  provincial  governors.  In  July  1901,  the  Philippine  Con- 
stabulary was  organized  as  an  archipelago-wide  police  force  to  con- 
trol brigandage  and  deal  with  the  remnants  of  the  insurgent 
movement.  After  military  rule  was  terminated  on  July  4,  1901, 
the  Philippine  Constabulary  gradually  took  over  from  United  States 
army  units  the  responsibility  for  suppressing  guerrilla  and  bandit 
activities. 

From  the  very  beginning,  United  States  presidents  and  their 
representatives  in  the  islands  defined  their  colonial  mission  as 
tutelage:  preparing  the  Philippines  for  eventual  independence.  Ex- 
cept for  a  small  group  of '  'retentionists, ' '  the  issue  was  not  whether 
the  Philippines  would  be  granted  self-rule,  but  when  and  under 
what  conditions.  Thus  political  development  in  the  islands  was  rapid 
and  particularly  impressive  in  light  of  the  complete  lack  of  represen- 
tative institutions  under  the  Spanish.  The  Philippine  Organic  Act 
of  July  1902  stipulated  that,  with  the  achievement  of  peace,  a  legis- 
lature would  be  established  composed  of  a  lower  house,  the  Philip- 
pine Assembly,  which  would  be  popularly  elected,  and  an  upper 
house  consisting  of  the  Philippine  Commission,  which  was  to  be 
appointed  by  the  president  of  the  United  States.  The  two  houses 
would  share  legislative  powers,  although  the  upper  house  alone 
would  pass  laws  relating  to  the  Moros  and  other  non-Christian  peo- 
ples. The  act  also  provided  for  extending  the  United  States  Bill 
of  Rights  to  Filipinos  and  sending  two  Filipino  resident  commis- 
sioners to  Washington  to  attend  sessions  of  the  United  States  Con- 
gress. In  July  1907,  the  first  elections  for  the  assembly  were  held, 
and  it  opened  its  first  session  on  October  16,  1907.  Political  par- 
ties were  organized,  and,  although  open  advocacy  of  independence 


28 


Historical  Setting 


had  been  banned  during  the  insurgency  years,  criticism  of  govern- 
ment policies  in  the  local  newspapers  was  tolerated. 

Taft,  the  Philippines'  first  civilian  governor,  outlined  a  compre- 
hensive development  plan  that  he  described  as  "the  Philippines 
for  the  Filipinos  .  .  .  that  every  measure,  whether  in  the  form  of 
a  law  or  an  executive  order,  before  its  adoption,  should  be  weighed 
in  the  light  of  this  question:  Does  it  make  for  the  welfare  of  the 
Filipino  people,  or  does  it  not?"  Its  main  features  included  not 
only  broadening  representative  institutions  but  also  expanding  a 
system  of  free  public  elementary  education  and  designing  economic 
policies  to  promote  the  islands'  development.  Filipinos  widely  in- 
terpreted Taft's  pronouncements  as  a  promise  of  independence. 

The  1902  Philippine  Organic  Act  disestablished  the  Catholic 
Church  as  the  state  religion.  The  United  States  government,  in 
an  effort  to  resolve  the  status  of  the  friars,  negotiated  with  the  Vati- 
can. The  church  agreed  to  sell  the  friars'  estates  and  promised 
gradual  substitution  of  Filipino  and  other  non-Spanish  priests  for 
the  friars.  It  refused,  however,  to  withdraw  the  religious  orders 
from  the  islands  immediately,  partly  to  avoid  offending  Spain.  In 
1904  the  administration  bought  for  US$7.2  million  the  major  part 
of  the  friars'  holdings,  amounting  to  some  166,000  hectares,  of 
which  one-half  was  in  the  vicinity  of  Manila.  The  land  was  even- 
tually resold  to  Filipinos,  some  of  them  tenants  but  the  majority 
of  them  estate  owners. 

A  Collaborative  Philippine  Leadership 

The  most  important  step  in  establishing  a  new  political  system 
was  the  successful  cooptation  of  the  Filipino  elite — called  the  "policy 
of  attraction."  Wealthy  and  conservative  ilustrados,  the  self-described 
"oligarchy  of  intelligence,"  had  been  from  the  outset  reluctant 
revolutionaries,  suspicious  of  the  Katipunan  and  willing  to  negotiate 
with  either  Spain  or  the  United  States.  Trinidad  H.  Pardo  de 
Tavera,  a  descendant  of  Spanish  nobility,  and  Benito  Legarda,  a 
rich  landowner  and  capitalist,  had  quit  Aguinaldo's  government 
in  1898  as  a  result  of  disagreements  with  Mabini.  Subsequently, 
they  worked  closely  with  the  Schurman  and  Taft  commissions,  ad- 
vocating acceptance  of  United  States  rule. 

In  December  1900,  de  Tavera  and  Legarda  established  the  Fed- 
eralista  Party,  advocating  statehood  for  the  islands.  In  the  follow- 
ing year,  they  were  appointed  the  first  Filipino  members  of  the 
Philippine  Commission  of  the  legislature.  In  such  an  advantageous 
position,  they  were  able  to  bring  influence  to  bear  to  achieve  the 
appointment  of  Federalistas  to  provincial  governorships,  the 
Supreme  Court,  and  top  positions  in  the  civil  service.  Although 


29 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

the  party  boasted  a  membership  of  200,000  by  May  1901,  its 
proposal  to  make  the  islands  a  state  of  the  United  States  had  limit- 
ed appeal,  both  in  the  islands  and  in  the  United  States,  and  the 
party  was  widely  regarded  as  being  opportunistic.  In  1905  the  party 
revised  its  program  over  the  objections  of  its  leaders,  calling  for 
"ultimate  independence"  and  changing  its  name  to  the  National 
Progressive  Party  (Partido  Nacional  Progresista). 

The  Nacionalista  Party,  established  in  1907,  dominated  the 
Philippine  political  process  until  after  World  War  II.  It  was  led 
by  a  new  generation  of  politicians,  who  were  not  ilustrados  and  were 
by  no  means  radical.  One  of  the  leaders,  Manuel  Quezon,  came 
from  a  family  of  moderate  wealth.  An  officer  in  Aguinaldo's  army, 
he  studied  law,  passed  his  bar  examination  in  1903,  and  entered 
provincial  politics,  becoming  governor  of  Tayabas  in  1906  before 
being  elected  to  the  Philippine  Assembly  the  following  year.  His 
success  at  an  early  age  was  attributable  to  consummate  political 
skills  and  the  support  of  influential  Americans.  His  Nacionalista 
Party  associate  and  sometime  rival  was  Sergio  Osmena,  the  college- 
educated  son  of  a  shopkeeper,  who  had  worked  as  a  journalist.  The 
former  journalist's  thoroughness  and  command  of  detail  made  him 
a  perfect  complement  to  Quezon.  Like  Quezon,  Osmena  had  served 
as  a  provincial  governor  (in  his  home  province  of  Cebu)  before 
being  elected  in  1907  to  the  assembly  and,  at  age  twenty-nine,  select- 
ed as  its  first  speaker. 

Although  the  Nacionalista  Party's  platform  at  its  founding  called 
for  "immediate  independence,"  American  observers  believed  that 
Osmena  and  Quezon  used  this  appeal  only  to  get  votes.  In  fact, 
their  policy  toward  the  Americans  was  highly  accommodating.  In 
1907  an  understanding  was  reached  with  an  American  official  that 
the  two  leaders  would  block  any  attempt  by  the  Philippine  Assem- 
bly to  demand  independence.  Osmena  and  Quezon,  who  were  the 
dominant  political  figures  in  the  islands  up  to  World  War  II,  were 
genuinely  committed  to  independence.  The  failure  of  Aguinaldo's 
revolutionary  movement,  however,  had  taught  them  the  prag- 
matism of  adopting  a  conciliatory  policy. 

The  appearance  of  the  Nacionalista  Party  in  1907  marked  the 
emergence  of  the  party  system,  although  the  party  was  without  an 
effective  rival  from  1916  for  most  of  the  period  until  the  emergence 
of  the  Liberal  Party  in  1946.  Much  of  the  system's  success  (or, 
rather,  the  success  of  the  Nacionalistas)  depended  on  the  linkage 
of  modern  political  institutions  with  traditional  social  structures 
and  practices.  Most  significantly,  it  involved  the  integration  of  local- 
level  elite  groups  into  the  new  political  system.  Philippine  parties 
have  been  described  by  political  scientist  Carl  Lande  as  organized 


30 


Traditional  horse-drawn  calesa  cart 
Courtesy  Robert  L.  W or  den 


"upward"  rather  than  "downward."  That  is,  national  followings 
were  put  together  by  party  leaders  who  worked  in  conjunction  with 
local  elite  groups — in  many  cases  the  descendants  of  the  principalia 
of  Spanish  times — who  controlled  constituencies  tied  to  them  in 
patron-client  relationships.  The  issue  of  independence,  and  the  con- 
ditions and  timing  under  which  it  would  be  granted,  generated  con- 
siderable passion  in  the  national  political  arena.  According  to 
Lande,  however,  the  decisive  factors  in  terms  of  popular  support 
were  more  often  local  and  particularistic  issues  rather  than  national 
or  ideological  concerns.  Filipino  political  associations  depended  on 
intricate  networks  of  personalistic  ties,  directed  upward  to  Manila 
and  the  national  legislature. 

The  linchpins  of  the  system  created  under  United  States  tutelage 
were  the  village-  and  province-level  notables — often  labeled  boss- 
es or  caciques  by  colonial  administrators — who  garnered  support 
by  exchanging  specific  favors  for  votes.  Reciprocal  relations  be- 
tween inferior  and  superior  (most  often  tenants  or  sharecroppers 
with  large  landholders)  usually  involved  the  concept  of  utang  na  loob 
(repayment  of  debts)  or  kinship  ties,  and  they  formed  the  basis  of 
support  for  village-level  factions  led  by  the  notables  (see  Social 
Values  and  Organization,  ch.  2).  These  factions  decided  politi- 
cal party  allegiance.  The  extension  of  voting  rights  to  all  literate 


31 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


males  in  1916,  the  growth  of  literacy,  and  the  granting  of  wom- 
en's suffrage  in  1938  increased  the  electorate  considerably.  The 
elite,  however,  was  largely  successful  in  monopolizing  the  support 
of  the  newly  enfranchised,  and  a  genuinely  populist  alternative  to 
the  status  quo  was  never  really  established. 

The  policy  of  attraction  ensured  the  success  of  what  colonial  ad- 
ministrators called  the  political  education  of  the  Filipinos.  It  was, 
however,  also  the  cause  of  its  greatest  failure.  Osmefia  and  Quezon, 
as  the  acknowledged  representatives,  were  not  genuinely  interest- 
ed in  social  reform,  and  serious  problems  involving  land  owner- 
ship, tenancy,  and  the  highly  unequal  distribution  of  wealth  were 
largely  ignored.  The  growing  power  of  the  Nacionalista  Party,  par- 
ticularly in  the  period  after  1916  when  it  gained  almost  complete 
control  of  a  bicameral  Filipino  legislature,  barred  the  effective  in- 
clusion of  nonelite  interests  in  the  political  system.  Not  only  revo- 
lution but  also  moderate  reforms  of  the  social  and  economic  systems 
were  precluded.  Discussions  of  policy  alternatives  became  less  salient 
to  the  political  process  than  the  dynamics  of  personalism  and  the 
ethic  of  give  and  take. 

The  Jones  Act 

The  term  of  Governor  General  Francis  Burton  Harrison  (1913-21) 
was  one  of  particularly  harmonious  collaboration  between  Ameri- 
cans and  Filipinos.  Harrison's  attitudes  (he  is  described  as  having 
regarded  himself  as  a  "constitutional  monarch"  presiding  over  a 
"government  of  Filipinos")  reflected  the  relatively  liberal  stance  of 
Woodrow  Wilson's  Democratic  Party  administration.  In  1913  Wilson 
had  appointed  five  Filipinos  to  the  Philippine  Commission  of  the 
legislature,  giving  it  a  Filipino  majority  for  the  first  time.  Harrison 
undertook  rapid  "Filipinization"  of  the  civil  service,  much  to  the 
anger  and  distress  of  Americans  in  the  islands,  including  superan- 
nuated officials.  In  1913  there  had  been  2,623  American  and  6,363 
Filipino  officials;  in  1921  there  were  13,240  Filipino  and  614  Ameri- 
can administrators.  Critics  accused  Harrison  of  transforming  a 
"colonial  government  of  Americans  aided  by  Filipinos"  into  a 
"government  of  Filipinos  aided  by  Americans"  and  of  being  the 
"plaything  and  catspaw  of  the  leaders  of  the  Nacionalista  Party." 

A  major  step  was  taken  in  the  direction  of  independence  in  1916, 
when  the  United  States  Congress  passed  a  second  organic  law,  com- 
monly referred  to  as  the  Jones  Act,  which  replaced  the  1902  law. 
Its  preamble  stated  the  intent  to  grant  Philippine  independence  as 
soon  as  a  stable  government  was  established.  The  Philippine  Senate 
replaced  the  Philippine  Commission  as  the  upper  house  of  the  legisla- 
ture. Unlike  the  commission,  all  but  two  of  the  Senate's  twenty-four 


32 


Historical  Setting 


members  (and  all  but  nine  of  the  ninety  representatives  in  the  lower 
house,  now  renamed  the  House  of  Representatives)  were  popu- 
larly elected.  The  two  senators  and  nine  representatives  were  ap- 
pointed by  the  governor  general  to  represent  the  non-Christian 
peoples.  The  legislature's  actions  were  subject  to  the  veto  of  the 
governor  general,  and  it  could  not  pass  laws  affecting  the  rights 
of  United  States  citizens.  The  Jones  Act  brought  the  legislative 
branch  under  Filipino  control.  The  executive  still  was  firmly  un- 
der the  control  of  an  appointed  governor  general,  and  most  Supreme 
Court  justices,  who  were  appointed  by  the  United  States  president, 
still  were  Americans  in  1916. 

Elections  were  held  for  the  two  houses  in  1916,  and  the  Na- 
cionalista  Party  made  an  almost  clean  sweep.  All  but  one  elected 
seat  in  the  Senate  and  eighty-three  out  of  ninety  elected  seats  in 
the  House  were  won  by  their  candidates,  leaving  the  National 
Progressive  Party  (the  former  Federalista  Party)  a  powerless  opposi- 
tion. Quezon  was  chosen  president  of  the  Senate,  and  Osmefia  con- 
tinued as  speaker  of  the  House. 

The  Jones  Act  remained  the  basic  legislation  for  the  adminis- 
tration of  the  Philippines  until  the  United  States  Congress  passed 
new  legislation  in  1934,  which  became  effective  in  1935,  establish- 
ing the  Commonwealth  of  the  Philippines.  Provisions  of  the  Jones 
Act  were  differendy  interpreted,  however,  by  the  governors  general. 
Harrison  rarely  challenged  the  legislature  by  his  use  of  the  veto 
power.  His  successor,  General  Leonard  Wood  (1921-27),  was  con- 
vinced that  United  States  withdrawal  from  the  islands  would  be 
as  disastrous  for  the  Filipinos  as  it  would  be  for  the  interests  of 
the  United  States  in  the  western  Pacific.  He  aroused  the  intense 
opposition  of  the  Nacionalistas  by  his  use  of  the  veto  power  126 
times  in  his  six  years  in  office.  The  Nacionalista  Party  created  a 
political  deadlock  when  ranking  Filipino  officials  resigned  in  1923 
leaving  their  positions  vacant  until  Wood's  term  ended  with  his 
death  in  1927.  His  successors,  however,  reversed  Wood's  policies 
and  reestablished  effective  working  relations  with  Filipino  poli- 
ticians. 

Although  the  Jones  Act  did  not  transfer  responsibility  for  the 
Moro  regions  (reorganized  in  1914  under  the  Department  of  Min- 
danao and  Sulu)  from  the  American  governor  to  the  Filipino- 
controlled  legislature,  Muslims  perceived  the  rapid  Filipinization 
of  the  civil  service  and  United  States  commitment  to  eventual  in- 
dependence as  serious  threats.  In  the  view  of  the  Moros,  an  in- 
dependent Philippines  would  be  dominated  by  Christians,  their 
traditional  enemies.  United  States  policy  from  1903  had  been  to 


33 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

break  down  the  historical  autonomy  of  the  Muslim  territories.  Im- 
migration of  Christian  settlers  from  Luzon  and  the  Visayan  Islands 
to  the  relatively  unsettled  regions  of  Mindanao  was  encouraged, 
and  the  new  arrivals  began  supplanting  the  Moros  in  their  own 
homeland.  Large  areas  of  the  island  were  opened  to  economic  ex- 
ploitation. In  addition,  there  was  no  legal  recognition  of  Muslim 
customs  and  institutions.  In  March  1935,  Muslim  datu  petitioned 
United  States  president  Franklin  D.  Roosevelt;  the  petition  read 
in  part:  "The  American  people  should  not  release  us  until  we  are 
educated  and  become  powerful  because  we  are  like  a  calf  who,  once 
abandoned  by  its  mother,  would  be  devoured  by  a  merciless  lion. ' ' 
Any  suggestion  of  special  status  for  or  continued  United  States  rule 
over  the  Moro  regions,  however,  was  vehementiy  opposed  by  Chris- 
tian Filipino  leaders,  who,  when  the  Commonwealth  of  the  Philip- 
pines was  established,  gained  virtually  complete  control  over 
government  institutions. 

Economic  and  Social  Developments 

The  Taft  Commission,  appointed  in  1900,  viewed  economic  de- 
velopment, along  with  education  and  the  establishment  of  represen- 
tative institutions,  as  one  of  the  three  pillars  of  the  United  States 
program  of  tutelage.  Its  members  had  ambitious  plans  to  build  rail- 
roads and  highways,  improve  harbor  facilities,  open  greater  mar- 
kets for  Philippine  goods  through  the  lowering  or  elimination  of 
tariffs,  and  stimulate  foreign  investment  in  mining,  forestry,  and 
cash-crop  cultivation.  In  1901  some  93  percent  of  the  islands'  to- 
tal land  area  was  public  land,  and  it  was  hoped  that  a  portion  of 
this  area  could  be  sold  to  American  investors.  Those  plans  were 
frustrated,  however,  by  powerful  agricultural  interests  in  the  United 
States  Congress  who  feared  competition  from  Philippine  sugar, 
coconut  oil,  tobacco,  and  other  exports.  Although  Taft  argued  for 
more  liberal  terms,  the  United  States  Congress,  in  the  1902  Land 
Act,  set  a  limit  of  16  hectares  of  Philippine  public  land  to  be  sold 
or  leased  to  American  individuals  and  1 ,024  hectares  to  American 
corporations.  This  act  and  tight  financial  markets  in  the  United 
States  discouraged  the  development  of  large-scale,  foreign-owned 
plantations  such  as  were  being  established  in  British  Malaya,  the 
Dutch  East  Indies,  and  French  Indochina. 

The  Taft  Commission  argued  that  tariff  relief  was  essential  if 
the  islands  were  to  be  developed.  In  August  1909,  Congress  passed 
the  Payne  Aldrich  Tariff  Act,  which  provided  for  free  entry  to  the 
United  States  of  all  Philippine  products  except  rice,  sugar,  and 
tobacco.  Rice  imports  were  subjected  to  regular  tariffs,  and  quo- 
tas were  established  for  sugar  and  tobacco.  In  1913  the  Underwood 


34 


Historical  Setting 


Tariff  Act  removed  all  restrictions.  The  principal  result  of  these 
acts  was  to  make  the  islands  increasingly  dependent  on  American 
markets;  between  1914  and  1920,  the  portion  of  Philippine  exports 
going  to  the  United  States  rose  from  50  to  70  percent.  By  1939 
it  had  reached  85  percent,  and  65  percent  of  imports  came  from 
the  United  States. 

In  1931  there  were  between  80,000  and  100,000  Chinese  in  the 
islands  active  in  the  local  economy;  many  of  them  had  arrived  af- 
ter United  States  rule  had  been  established.  Some  16,000  Japanese 
were  concentrated  largely  in  the  Mindanao  province  of  Davao  (the 
incorporated  city  of  Davao  was  labeled  the  "Little  Tokyo  of  the 
South"  by  local  boosters)  and  were  predominant  in  the  abaca  in- 
dustry. Yet  the  immigration  of  foreign  laborers  never  reached  a 
volume  sufficient  to  threaten  indigenous  control  of  the  economy 
or  the  traditional  social  structure  as  it  did  in  British  Malaya  and 
Burma. 

The  Tenancy  Problem 

The  limited  nature  of  United  States  intervention  in  the  econo- 
my and  the  Nacionalista  Party's  elite  dominance  of  the  Philippine 
political  system  ensured  that  the  status  quo  in  landlord  and  tenant 
relationships  would  be  maintained,  even  if  certain  of  its  tradition- 
al aspects  changed.  A  government  attempt  to  establish  homesteads 
modeled  on  those  of  the  American  West  in  1903  did  little  to  alter 
landholding  arrangements.  Although  different  regions  of  the  ar- 
chipelago had  their  own  specific  arrangements  and  different  propor- 
tions of  tenants  and  small  proprietors,  the  kasama  (sharecropper) 
system  was  the  most  prevalent,  particularly  in  the  rice- growing  areas 
of  Central  Luzon  and  the  Visayan  Islands. 

Under  this  arrangement,  the  landowners  supplied  the  seed  and 
cash  necessary  to  tide  cultivators  over  during  the  planting  season, 
and  the  cultivators  provided  tools  and  work  animals  and  were 
responsible  for  one-half  the  expense  of  crop  production.  Usually, 
owner  and  sharecropper  each  took  one-half  of  the  harvest,  although 
only  after  the  former  had  deducted  a  portion  for  expenses.  Terms 
might  be  more  liberal  in  frontier  areas  where  owners  needed  to 
attract  cultivators  to  clear  the  land.  Sometimes  land  tenancy  ar- 
rangements were  three  tiered:  an  original  owner  would  lease  land 
to  an  inquilino,  who  would  then  sublet  it  to  kasamas.  In  the  words 
of  historian  David  R.  Sturtevant:  "Thrice  removed  from  their 
proprietario,  affected  taos  [peasants]  received  ever-diminishing  shares 
from  the  picked-over  remains  of  harvests." 

Cultivators  customarily  were  deep  in  debt,  for  they  were  depen- 
dent on  advances  made  by  the  landowner,  or  inquilino,  and  had  to 


35 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


pay  steep  interest  rates.  Principal  and  interest  accumulated  rapidly, 
becoming  an  impossible  burden.  It  was  estimated  in  1924  that  the 
members  of  the  average  tenant  family  would  have  to  labor  unin- 
terruptedly for  163  years  to  pay  off  debts  and  acquire  title  to  the 
land  they  worked.  The  kasama  system  created  a  class  of  peons  or 
serfs;  children  inherited  the  debts  of  their  fathers,  and  over  the 
generations  families  were  tied  in  bondage  to  their  estates.  Con- 
tracts usually  were  unwritten,  and  landowners  could  change  con- 
ditions to  their  own  advantage. 

Two  factors  led  to  a  worsening  of  the  cultivators'  position.  One 
was  the  rapid  increase  in  the  national  population  (from  7.6  mil- 
lion in  1905  to  16  million  in  1939)  brought  about  through  improve- 
ments in  public  health,  which  put  added  pressure  on  the  land, 
lowered  the  standard  of  living,  and  created  a  labor  surplus.  Closely 
tied  to  the  population  increase  was  the  erosion  of  traditional  patron- 
client  ties.  The  landlord-tenant  relationship  was  becoming  more 
impersonal.  The  landlord's  interest  in  the  tenants'  welfare  was  wan- 
ing. Landlords  ceased  providing  important  services  and  used  profits 
from  the  sale  of  cash  crops  to  support  their  urban  life-styles  or  to 
invest  in  other  kinds  of  enterprises.  Cultivators  accused  landown- 
ers of  demanding  services  from  tenants  without  pay  and  giving  noth- 
ing in  return,  shamelessly  forgetting  the  principle  of  utang  na  loob. 

As  the  area  under  cultivation  increased  from  1 . 3  million  hect- 
ares in  1903  to  4  million  hectares  in  1935 — stimulated  by  United 
States  demand  for  cash  crops  and  by  the  growing  population — 
tenancy  also  increased.  In  1918  there  were  roughly  2  million  farms, 
of  which  1.5  million  were  operated  by  their  owners;  by  1939  these 
figures  had  declined  to  1.6  million  and  800,000,  respectively,  as 
individual  proprietors  became  tenants  or  migrant  laborers.  Dis- 
parities in  the  distribution  of  wealth  grew.  By  1939  the  wealthiest 
10  percent  of  the  population  received  40  percent  of  the  islands'  in- 
come. The  elite  and  the  cultivators  were  separated  culturally  and 
geographically,  as  well  as  economically.  As  new  urban  centers  rose, 
often  with  an  Americanized  culture,  the  elite  left  the  countryside 
to  become  absentee  landlords,  leaving  estate  management  in  the 
hands  of  frequently  abusive  overseers.  The  Philippine  Constabu- 
lary played  a  central  role  in  suppressing  antilandlord  resistance. 

Resistance  Movements 

The  tradition  of  rural  revolt,  often  with  messianic  overtones,  con- 
tinued under  United  States  rule.  Colorum  sects,  derived  from  the 
old  Cofradfa  de  San  Jose,  had  spread  throughout  the  Christian 
regions  of  the  archipelago  and  by  the  early  1920s  competed  with 
the  Roman  Catholic  establishment  and  the  missionaries  of  Gregorio 


36 


Historical  Setting 


Aglipay's  Independent  Philippine  Church  (Iglesia  Filipina  Indepen- 
diente).  A  colorum-\ed  revolt  broke  out  in  northeastern  Mindanao 
early  in  1924,  sparked  by  a  sect  leader's  predictions  of  an  immi- 
nent judgment  day.  In  1925  Florencio  Entrencherado,  a  shopkeeper 
on  the  island  of  Panay,  proclaimed  himself  Florencio  I,  Emperor 
of  the  Philippines,  somewhat  paradoxically  running  for  the  office 
of  provincial  governor  of  Iloilo  that  same  year  on  a  platform  of 
tax  reduction,  measures  against  Chinese  and  Japanese  merchants, 
and  immediate  independence.  Although  he  lost  the  election,  the 
campaign  made  him  a  prominent  figure  in  the  western  Visayan 
Islands  and  won  him  the  sympathies  of  the  poor  living  in  the  sugar 
provinces  of  Panay  and  Negros.  Claiming  semidivine  attributes 
(that  he  could  control  the  elements  and  that  his  charisma  had  been 
granted  him  by  the  Holy  Spirit  and  the  spirits  of  Father  Burgos 
and  Rizal),  Florencio  had  a  following  of  some  10,000  peasants  on 
Negros  and  Panay  by  late  1926.  In  May  1927,  his  supporters,  heed- 
ing his  call  that  "the  hour  will  come  when  the  poor  will  be  ordered 
to  kill  all  the  rich,"  launched  an  abortive  insurrection. 

Tensions  were  highest  in  Central  Luzon,  where  tenancy  was  most 
widespread  and  population  pressures  were  the  greatest.  The  1931 
Tayug  insurrection  north  of  Manila  was  connected  with  a  colorum 
sect  and  had  religious  overtones,  but  traditionally  messianic  move- 
ments gradually  gave  way  to  secular,  and  at  times  revolutionary, 
ones.  One  of  the  first  of  these  movements  was  the  Association  of 
the  Worthy  Kabola  (Kapisanan  Makabola  Makasinag),  a  secret 
society  that  by  1925  had  some  12,000  followers,  largely  in  Nueva 
Ecija  Province.  Its  leader,  Pedro  Kabola,  called  for  liberation 
of  the  Philippines  and  promised  the  aid  of  the  Japanese.  The 
Tangulang  (Kapatiran  Tangulang  Malayang  Mamamayang — 
Association  for  an  Offensive  for  Our  Future  Freedom)  movement 
founded  in  1931  was  both  urban  and  rural  based  and  had  as  many 
as  40,000  followers. 

The  most  important  movement,  however,  was  that  of  the  Sak- 
dalistas.  Founded  in  1933  by  Benigno  Ramos,  a  former  Nacionalista 
Party  member  and  associate  of  Quezon  who  broke  with  him  over 
the  issue  of  collaboration,  the  Sakdal  Party  {sakdal  means  to  ac- 
cuse) ran  candidates  in  the  1934  election  on  a  platform  of  com- 
plete independence  by  the  end  of  1935,  redistribution  of  land,  and 
an  end  to  caciquism.  Sakdalistas  were  elected  to  a  number  of  seats 
in  the  legislature  and  to  provincial  posts,  and  by  early  1935  the 
party  may  have  had  as  many  as  200,000  members.  Because  of  poor 
harvests  and  frustrations  with  the  government's  lack  of  response 
to  peasant  demands,  Sakdalistas  took  up  arms  and  seized  govern- 
ment buildings  in  a  number  of  locations  on  May  2-3,  1935.  The 


37 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

insurrection,  suppressed  by  the  Philippine  Constabulary,  resulted  in 
approximately  100  dead  and  Benigno  Ramos  fled  into  exile  to  Japan. 

Through  the  1930s,  tenant  movements  in  Central  Luzon  became 
more  active,  articulate,  and  better  organized.  In  1938  the  Socialist 
Party  joined  in  a  united  front  with  the  Communist  Party  of  the 
Philippines  (Partido  Komunista  ng  Pilipinas — PKP),  which  was 
prominent  in  supporting  the  demands  of  tenants  for  better  con- 
tracts and  working  conditions.  As  the  depression  wore  on  and  prices 
for  cash  crops  collapsed,  tenant  strikes  and  violent  confrontations 
with  landlords,  their  overseers,  and  the  Philippine  Constabulary 
escalated. 

In  response  to  deteriorating  conditions,  commonwealth  presi- 
dent Quezon  launched  the  "Social  Justice"  program,  which  in- 
cluded regulation  of  rents  but  achieved  only  meager  results.  There 
were  insufficient  funds  to  carry  out  the  program,  and  implemen- 
tation was  sabotaged  on  the  local  level  by  landlords  and  municipal 
officials.  In  1939  and  1940,  thousands  of  cultivators  were  evicted 
by  landlords  because  they  insisted  on  enforcement  of  the  1933  Rice 
Share  Tenancy  Act,  which  guaranteed  larger  shares  for  tenants. 

The  Commonwealth  and  the  Japanese  Occupation 

Commonwealth  Politics,  1935-41 

The  constellation  of  political  forces  in  the  United  States  that  as- 
sisted in  the  resolution  of  the  independence  question  formed  an 
odd  community  of  interests  with  the  Filipino  nationalists.  Principal 
among  these  were  the  agricultural  interests.  American  sugar  beet, 
tobacco,  and  dairy  farmers  feared  the  competition  of  low-tariff 
insular  products,  and  the  hardships  suffered  in  a  deepening  depres- 
sion in  the  early  1930s  led  them  to  seek  protection  through  a  sever- 
ance of  the  colonial  relationship.  In  this  they  had  the  support  of 
Cuban  sugar  interests,  who  feared  the  loss  of  markets  to  Philippine 
sugarcane.  United  States  labor  unions,  particularly  on  the  West 
Coast,  wanted  to  exclude  Filipino  labor.  A  number  of  American 
observers  saw  the  Philippines  as  a  potential  flash  point  with  an  ex- 
pansive Japan  and  argued  for  a  withdrawal  across  the  Pacific  to 
Hawaii. 

In  the  climate  generated  by  these  considerations,  Osmena  and 
Manuel  Roxas,  a  rising  star  in  the  Nacionalista  Party  and  Osmena' s 
successor  as  speaker  of  the  House,  successfully  campaigned  for  pas- 
sage of  the  Hare-Hawes-Cutting  Independence  Bill,  which  Con- 
gress approved  over  President  Herbert  Hoover's  veto  in  January 
1933.  Quezon  opposed  the  legislation,  however,  on  the  grounds 


38 


Historical  Setting 


that  clauses  relating  to  trade  and  excluding  Filipino  immigrants 
were  too  stringent  and  that  the  guarantees  of  United  States  bases 
on  Philippine  soil  and  powers  granted  a  United  States  high  com- 
missioner compromised  independence.  After  the  bill  was  defeated 
in  the  Philippine  legislature,  Quezon  himself  went  to  Washington 
and  negotiated  the  passage  of  a  revised  independence  act,  the 
Tydings-McDuffie  Act,  in  March  1934. 

The  Tydings-McDuffie  Act  provided  for  a  ten-year  transition 
period  to  independence,  during  which  the  Commonwealth  of  the 
Philippines  would  be  established.  The  commonwealth  would  have 
its  own  constitution  and  would  be  self-governing,  although  foreign 
policy  would  be  the  responsibility  of  the  United  States.  Laws  passed 
by  the  legislature  affecting  immigration,  foreign  trade,  and  the  cur- 
rency system  had  to  be  approved  by  the  United  States  president. 

If  the  Tydings-McDuffie  Act  marked  a  new  stage  in  Filipino- 
American  partnership,  it  remained  a  highly  unequal  one.  Although 
only  fifty  Filipino  immigrants  were  allowed  into  the  United  States 
annually  under  the  arrangement,  American  entry  and  residence 
in  the  islands  were  unrestricted.  Trade  provisions  of  the  act  allowed 
for  five  years'  free  entry  of  Philippine  goods  during  the  transition 
period  and  five  years  of  gradually  steepening  tariff  duties  there- 
after, reaching  100  percent  in  1946,  whereas  United  States  goods 
could  enter  the  islands  unrestricted  and  duty  free  during  the  full 
ten  years.  Quezon  had  managed  to  obtain  more  favorable  terms 
on  bases;  the  United  States  would  retain  only  a  naval  reservation 
and  fueling  stations.  The  United  States  would,  moreover,  negoti- 
ate with  foreign  governments  for  the  neutralization  of  the  islands. 

The  country's  first  constitution  was  framed  by  a  constitutional 
convention  that  assembled  in  July  1934.  Overwhelmingly  approved 
by  plebiscite  in  May  1935,  this  document  established  the  political 
institutions  for  the  intended  ten-year  commonwealth  period  that 
began  that  year  and  after  July  1946  became  the  constitution  of  the 
independent  Republic  of  the  Philippines.  The  first  commonwealth 
election  to  the  new  Congress  was  held  in  September  1935.  Quezon 
and  Osmena,  reconciled  after  their  disagreements  over  the  indepen- 
dence act,  ran  on  a  Coalition  Party  ticket  and  were  elected  presi- 
dent and  vice  president,  respectively. 

World  War  II,  1941-45 

Japan  launched  a  surprise  attack  on  the  Philippines  on  Decem- 
ber 8,  1941,  just  ten  hours  after  the  attack  on  Pearl  Harbor.  Ini- 
tial aerial  bombardment  was  followed  by  landings  of  ground  troops 
both  north  and  south  of  Manila.  The  defending  Philippine  and 
United  States  troops  were  under  the  command  of  General  Douglas 


39 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

MacArthur,  who  had  been  recalled  to  active  duty  in  the  United 
States  Army  earlier  in  the  year  and  was  designated  commander 
of  the  United  States  Armed  Forces  in  the  Asia-Pacific  region.  The 
aircraft  of  his  command  were  destroyed;  the  naval  forces  were  or- 
dered to  leave;  and  because  of  the  circumstances  in  the  Pacific 
region,  reinforcement  and  resupply  of  his  ground  forces  were  im- 
possible. Under  the  pressure  of  superior  numbers,  the  defending 
forces  withdrew  to  the  Bataan  Peninsula  and  to  the  island  of  Cor- 
regidor  at  the  entrance  to  Manila  Bay.  Manila,  declared  an  open 
city  to  prevent  its  destruction,  was  occupied  by  the  Japanese  on 
January  2,  1942. 

The  Philippine  defense  continued  until  the  final  surrender  of 
United  States-Philippine  forces  on  the  Bataan  Peninsula  in  April 
1942  and  on  Corregidor  in  May.  Most  of  the  80,000  prisoners  of 
war  captured  by  the  Japanese  at  Bataan  were  forced  to  undertake 
the  infamous  "Death  March"  to  a  prison  camp  105  kilometers  to 
the  north.  It  is  estimated  that  as  many  as  10,000  men,  weakened 
by  disease  and  malnutrition  and  treated  harshly  by  their  captors, 
died  before  reaching  their  destination.  Quezon  and  Osmefia  had 
accompanied  the  troops  to  Corregidor  and  later  left  for  the  United 
States,  where  they  set  up  a  government  in  exile.  MacArthur  was 
ordered  to  Australia,  where  he  started  to  plan  for  a  return  to  the 
Philippines. 

The  Japanese  military  authorities  immediately  began  organiz- 
ing a  new  government  structure  in  the  Philippines.  Although  the 
Japanese  had  promised  independence  for  the  islands  after  occupa- 
tion, they  initially  organized  a  Council  of  State  through  which  they 
directed  civil  affairs  until  October  1943,  when  they  declared  the 
Philippines  an  independent  republic.  Most  of  the  Philippine  elite, 
with  a  few  notable  exceptions,  served  under  the  Japanese.  Philip- 
pine collaboration  in  Japanese- sponsored  political  institutions — 
which  later  became  a  major  domestic  political  issue — was  moti- 
vated by  several  considerations.  Among  them  was  the  effort  to  pro- 
tect the  people  from  the  harshness  of  Japanese  rule  (an  effort  that 
Quezon  himself  had  advocated),  protection  of  family  and  personal 
interests,  and  a  belief  that  Philippine  nationalism  would  be  advanced 
by  solidarity  with  fellow  Asians.  Many  Filipinos,  however,  collabo- 
rated to  pass  information  to  the  Allies.  The  Japanese-sponsored 
republic  headed  by  President  Jose  P.  Laurel  proved  to  be  un- 
popular. 

Japanese  occupation  of  the  Philippines  was  opposed  by  increas- 
ingly effective  underground  and  guerrilla  activity  that  ultimately 
reached  large-scale  proportions.  Postwar  investigations  showed  that 
about  260,000  people  were  in  guerrilla  organizations  and  that 


40 


Historical  Setting 


members  of  the  anti-Japanese  underground  were  even  more  numer- 
ous. Their  effectiveness  was  such  that  by  the  end  of  the  war,  Japan 
controlled  only  twelve  of  the  forty-eight  provinces.  The  major  ele- 
ment of  resistance  in  the  Central  Luzon  area  was  furnished  by  the 
Huks  (see  Glossary),  Hukbalahap,  or  the  People's  Anti-Japanese 
Army  organized  in  early  1942  under  the  leadership  of  Luis  Taruc, 
a  communist  party  member  since  1939.  The  Huks  armed  some 
30,000  people  and  extended  their  control  over  much  of  Luzon. 
Other  guerrilla  units  were  loyal  to  the  United  States  Armed  Forces 
Far  East. 

MacArthur's  Allied  forces  landed  on  the  island  of  Leyte  on  Oc- 
tober 20,  1944,  accompanied  by  Osmefia,  who  had  succeeded  to 
the  commonwealth  presidency  upon  the  death  of  Quezon  on  Au- 
gust 1,  1944.  Landings  then  followed  on  the  island  of  Mindoro  and 
around  the  Lingayen  Gulf  on  the  west  side  of  Luzon,  and  the  push 
toward  Manila  was  initiated.  Fighting  was  fierce,  particularly  in 
the  mountains  of  northern  Luzon,  where  Japanese  troops  had 
retreated,  and  in  Manila,  where  they  put  up  a  last-ditch  resistance. 
Guerrilla  forces  rose  up  everywhere  for  the  final  offensive.  Fight- 
ing continued  until  Japan's  formal  surrender  on  September  2,  1945. 
The  Philippines  had  suffered  great  loss  of  life  and  tremendous  phys- 
ical destruction  by  the  time  the  war  was  over  (see  The  Armed  Forces 
in  National  Life,  ch.  5).  An  estimated  1  million  Filipinos  had  been 
killed,  a  large  proportion  during  the  final  months  of  the  war,  and 
Manila  was  extensively  damaged. 

Independence  and  Constitutional  Government,  1945-72 

Demoralized  by  the  war  and  suffering  rampant  inflation  and 
shortages  of  food  and  other  goods,  the  Philippine  people  prepared 
for  the  transition  to  independence,  which  was  scheduled  for  July 
4,  1946.  A  number  of  issues  remained  unresolved,  principally  those 
concerned  with  trade  and  security  arrangements  between  the  is- 
lands and  the  United  States.  Yet  in  the  months  following  Japan's 
surrender,  collaboration  became  a  virulent  issue  that  split  the  coun- 
try and  poisoned  political  life.  Most  of  the  commonwealth  legisla- 
ture and  leaders,  such  as  Laurel,  Claro  Recto,  and  Roxas,  had 
served  in  the  Japanese-sponsored  government.  While  the  war  was 
still  going  on,  Allied  leaders  had  stated  that  such  "quislings"  and 
their  counterparts  on  the  provincial  and  local  levels  would  be  se- 
verely punished.  Harold  Ickes,  who  as  United  States  secretary  of 
the  interior  had  civil  authority  over  the  islands,  suggested  that  all 
officials  above  the  rank  of  schoolteacher  who  had  cooperated  with 
the  Japanese  be  purged  and  denied  the  right  to  vote  in  the  first 


41 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

postwar  elections.  Osmena  countered  that  each  case  should  be  tried 
on  its  own  merits. 

Resolution  of  the  problem  posed  serious  moral  questions  that 
struck  at  the  heart  of  the  political  system.  Collaborators  argued 
that  they  had  gone  along  with  the  occupiers  in  order  to  shield  the 
people  from  the  harshest  aspects  of  Japanese  rule.  Before  leaving 
Corregidor  in  March  1942,  Quezon  had  told  Laurel  and  Jose  Var- 
gas, mayor  of  Manila,  that  they  should  stay  behind  to  deal  with 
the  Japanese  but  refuse  to  take  an  oath  of  allegiance.  Although  presi- 
dent of  a  *  'puppet"  republic,  Laurel  had  faced  down  the  Japanese 
several  times  and  made  it  clear  that  his  loyalty  was  first  to  the  Philip- 
pines and  second  to  the  Japanese-sponsored  Greater  East  Asia 
Coprosperity  Sphere. 

Critics  accused  the  collaborators  of  opportunism  and  of  enrich- 
ing themselves  while  the  people  starved.  Anticollaborationist  feel- 
ing, moreover,  was  fueled  by  the  people's  resentment  of  the  elite. 
On  both  the  local  and  the  national  levels,  it  had  been  primarily 
the  landlords,  important  officials,  and  the  political  establishment 
that  had  supported  the  Japanese,  largely  because  the  latter,  with 
their  own  troops  and  those  of  a  reestablished  Philippine  Constabu- 
lary, preserved  their  property  and  forcibly  maintained  the  rural 
status  quo.  Tenants  felt  the  harshest  aspects  of  Japanese  rule.  Guer- 
rillas, particularly  those  associated  with  the  Huks,  came  from  the 
ranks  of  the  cultivators,  who  organized  to  defend  themselves  against 
the  Philippine  Constabulary  and  Japanese  depredations. 

The  issue  of  collaboration  centered  on  Roxas,  prewar  Nacionalis- 
ta  speaker  of  the  House  of  Representatives,  who  had  served  as 
minister  without  portfolio  and  was  responsible  for  rice  procurement 
and  economic  policy  in  the  wartime  Laurel  government.  A  close 
prewar  associate  of  Mac  Arthur,  he  maintained  contact  with  Allied 
intelligence  during  the  war  and  in  1944  had  unsuccessfully  attempt- 
ed to  escape  to  Allied  territory,  which  exonerated  him  in  the  gener- 
al's eyes.  MacArthur  supported  Roxas  in  his  ambitions  for  the 
presidency  when  he  announced  himself  as  a  candidate  of  the  newly 
formed  Liberal  Party  (the  liberal  wing  of  the  Nacionalista  Party) 
in  January  1946.  MacArthur' s  favoritism  aroused  much  criticism, 
particularly  because  other  collaborationist  leaders  were  held  in  jail, 
awaiting  trial.  A  presidential  campaign  of  great  vindictiveness  en- 
sued, in  which  Roxas 's  wartime  role  was  a  central  issue.  Roxas 
outspent  and  outspoke  his  Nacionalista  opponent,  the  aging  and  ail- 
ing Osmena.  In  the  April  23,  1946,  election,  Roxas  won  54  percent 
of  the  vote,  and  the  Liberal  Party  won  a  majority  in  the  legislature. 

On  July  4,  1946,  Roxas  became  the  first  president  of  the  indepen- 
dent Republic  of  the  Philippines.  In  1948  he  declared  an  amnesty 


42 


Historical  Setting 


for  arrested  collaborators — only  one  of  whom  had  been  indicted — 
except  for  those  who  had  committed  violent  crimes.  The  resilien- 
cy of  the  prewar  elite,  although  remarkable,  nevertheless  had  left 
a  bitter  residue  in  the  minds  of  the  people.  In  the  first  years  of  the 
republic,  the  issue  of  collaboration  became  closely  entwined  with 
old  agrarian  grievances  and  produced  violent  results. 

Economic  Relations  with  the  United  States  after  Independence 

If  the  inauguration  of  the  Commonwealth  of  the  Philippines  in 
November  1935  marked  the  high  point  of  Philippine-United  States 
relations,  the  actual  achievement  of  independence  was  in  many  ways 
a  disillusioning  anticlimax.  Economic  relations  remained  the  most 
salient  issue.  The  Philippine  economy  remained  highly  dependent 
on  United  States  markets — more  dependent,  according  to  United 
States  high  commissioner  Paul  McNutt,  than  any  single  state  was 
dependent  on  the  rest  of  the  country.  Thus  a  severance  of  special 
relations  at  independence  was  unthinkable,  and  large  landowners, 
particularly  those  with  hectarage  in  sugar,  campaigned  for  an  ex- 
tension to  free  trade.  The  Philippine  Trade  Act,  passed  by  the  Unit- 
ed States  Congress  in  1946  and  commonly  known  as  the  Bell  Act, 
stipulated  that  free  trade  be  continued  until  1954;  thereafter,  tariffs 
would  be  increased  5  percent  annually  until  full  amounts  were 
reached  in  1974.  Quotas  were  established  for  Philippine  products 
both  for  free  trade  and  tariff  periods.  At  the  same  time,  there  would 
be  no  restrictions  on  the  entry  of  United  States  products  to  the 
Philippines,  nor  would  there  be  Philippine  import  duties.  The 
Philippine  peso  (for  value  of  the  peso — see  Glossary)  was  tied  at 
a  fixed  rate  to  the  United  States  dollar. 

The  most  controversial  provision  of  the  Bell  Act  was  the  "pari- 
ty" clause  that  granted  United  States  citizens  equal  economic  rights 
with  Filipinos,  for  example,  in  the  exploitation  of  natural  resources. 
If  parity  privileges  of  individuals  or  corporations  were  infringed 
upon,  the  president  of  the  United  States  had  the  authority  to  re- 
voke any  aspect  of  the  trade  agreement.  Payment  of  war  damages 
amounting  to  US$620  million,  as  stipulated  in  the  Philippine  Re- 
habilitation Act  of  1946,  was  made  contingent  on  Philippine  ac- 
ceptance of  the  parity  clause. 

The  Bell  Act  was  approved  by  the  Philippine  legislature  on  July 
2,  two  days  before  independence.  The  parity  clause,  however,  re- 
quired an  amendment  relating  to  the  1935  constitution's  thirteenth 
article,  which  reserved  the  exploitation  of  natural  resources  for 
Filipinos.  This  amendment  could  be  obtained  only  with  the  ap- 
proval of  three-quarters  of  the  members  of  the  House  and  Senate 
and  a  plebiscite.  The  denial  of  seats  in  the  House  to  six  members 


43 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


of  the  leftist  Democratic  Alliance  and  three  Nacionalistas  on  grounds 
of  fraud  and  violent  campaign  tactics  during  the  April  1946  elec- 
tion enabled  Roxas  to  gain  legislative  approval  on  September  18. 
The  definition  of  three-quarters  became  an  issue  because  three- 
quarters  of  the  sitting  members,  not  the  full  House  and  Senate, 
had  approved  the  amendment,  but  the  Supreme  Court  ruled  in 
favor  of  the  administration's  interpretation. 

In  March  1947,  a  plebiscite  on  the  amendment  was  held;  only 
40  percent  of  the  electorate  participated,  but  the  majority  of  those 
approved  the  amendment.  The  Bell  Act,  particularly  the  parity 
clause,  was  seen  by  critics  as  an  inexcusable  surrender  of  national 
sovereignty.  The  pressure  of  the  sugar  barons,  particularly  those 
of  Roxas 's  home  region  of  the  western  Visayan  Islands  and  other 
landowner  interests,  however,  was  irresistible.  In  1955  a  revised 
United  States-Philippine  Trade  Agreement  (the  Laurel-Langley 
Agreement)  was  negotiated.  This  treaty  abolished  the  United  States 
authority  to  control  the  exchange  rate  of  the  peso,  made  parity 
privileges  reciprocal,  extended  the  sugar  quota,  and  extended  the 
time  period  for  the  reduction  of  other  quotas  and  for  the  progres- 
sive application  of  tariffs  on  Philippine  goods  exported  to  the  United 
States. 

Security  Agreements 

The  Philippines  became  an  integral  part  of  emerging  United 
States  security  arrangements  in  the  western  Pacific  upon  approval 
of  the  Military  Bases  Agreement  in  March  1947.  The  United  States 
retained  control  of  twenty-three  military  installations,  including 
Clark  Air  Base  and  the  extensive  naval  facilities  at  Subic  Bay,  for 
a  lease  period  of  ninety-nine  years.  United  States  rather  than  Philip- 
pine authorities  retained  full  jurisdiction  over  the  territories  covered 
by  the  military  installations,  including  over  collecting  taxes  and 
trying  offenders,  including  Filipinos,  in  cases  involving  United 
States  service  personnel.  Base  rights  remained  a  controversial  is- 
sue in  relations  between  the  two  countries  into  the  1990s  (see  For- 
eign Affairs,  ch.  4). 

The  Military  Assistance  Agreement  also  was  signed  in  March 
1947.  This  treaty  established  a  Joint  United  States  Military  Advi- 
sory Group  to  advise  and  train  the  Philippine  armed  forces  and 
authorized  the  transfer  of  aid  and  materiel — worth  some  US$169 
million  by  1957.  Between  1950  and  the  early  1980s,  the  United 
States  funded  the  military  education  of  nearly  17,000  Filipino  mili- 
tary personnel,  mostly  at  military  schools  and  training  facilities  in 
the  United  States.  Much  United  States  aid  was  used  to  support 
and  reorganize  the  Philippine  Constabulary  in  late  1947  in  the  face 


44 


Historical  Setting 


of  growing  internal  unrest.  A  contingent  of  Philippine  troops  was 
sent  to  Korea  in  1950.  In  August  1951 ,  the  two  nations  signed  the 
Mutual  Defense  Treaty  Between  the  Republic  of  the  Philippines 
and  the  United  States  of  America. 

The  Huk  Rebellion 

At  the  end  of  World  War  II,  most  rural  areas,  particularly  in 
Central  Luzon,  were  tinderboxes  on  the  point  of  conflagration.  The 
Japanese  occupation  had  only  postponed  the  farmers'  push  for  better 
conditions.  Tensions  grew  as  landlords  who  had  fled  to  urban  areas 
during  the  fighting  returned  to  the  villages  in  late  1945,  demand- 
ed back  rent,  and  employed  military  police  and  their  own  armed 
contingents  to  enforce  these  demands.  Food  and  other  goods  were 
in  short  supply.  The  war  had  sharpened  animosities  between  the 
elite,  who  in  large  numbers  had  supported  the  Japanese,  and  those 
tenants  who  had  been  part  of  the  guerrilla  resistance.  Having  had 
weapons  and  combat  experience  and  having  lost  friends  and  rela- 
tives to  the  Japanese  and  the  wartime  Philippine  Constabulary, 
guerrilla  veterans  and  those  close  to  them  were  not  as  willing  to 
be  intimidated  by  landlords  as  they  had  been  before  1942. 

MacArthur  had  jailed  Taruc  and  Casto  Alejandrino,  both  Huk 
leaders,  in  1945  and  ordered  United  States  forces  to  disarm  and 
disband  Huk  guerrillas.  Many  guerrillas,  however,  concealed  their 
weapons  or  fled  into  the  mountains.  The  Huks  were  closely  iden- 
tified with  the  emerging  Pambansang  Kaisahan  ng  mga  Mag- 
bubukid  (PKM — National  Peasant  Union),  which  was  strongest 
in  the  provinces  of  Pampanga,  Bulacan,  Nueva  Ecija,  and  Tarlac 
and  had  as  many  as  500,000  members.  As  part  of  the  left-wing 
Democratic  Alliance,  which  also  included  urban  left-wing  groups 
and  labor  unions,  the  PKM  supported  Osmena  and  the  Nacionalis- 
tas  against  Roxas  in  the  1946  election  campaign.  They  did  so  not 
only  because  Roxas  had  been  a  collaborator  but  also  because  Os- 
mena had  promised  a  new  law  giving  tenants  60  percent  of  the  har- 
vest, rather  than  the  50  percent  or  less  that  had  been  customary. 

Six  Democratic  Alliance  candidates  won  congressional  seats.  In- 
cluded among  these  winners  was  Taruc,  who  had  been  released 
from  jail  along  with  other  leaders.  The  Democratic  Alliance  can- 
didates were,  however,  excluded  from  the  legislature  on  charges 
of  using  terrorist  methods  during  the  campaign;  the  exclusion  pro- 
voked great  unrest  in  the  districts  that  had  elected  them.  Continued 
landlord-  and  police-instigated  violence  against  peasant  activities, 
including  the  murder  of  PKM  leader  Juan  Feleo  in  August  1946, 
provoked  the  Huk  veterans  to  dig  up  their  weapons  and  incite  a 
rebellion  in  the  Central  Luzon  provinces.  The  name  of  the  Huk 


45 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

movement  was  changed  from  the  People's  Anti-Japanese  Army  to 
the  People's  Liberation  Army  (Hukbong  Mapagpalaya  ng  Bayan). 

Roxas's  policy  toward  the  Huks  alternated  between  gestures  of 
negotiation  and  harsh  suppression.  His  administration  established 
an  Agrarian  Commission  and  passed  a  law  giving  tenants  70  per- 
cent of  the  harvest;  the  law,  however,  was  extremely  difficult  to 
enforce  in  the  countryside.  The  Huks  in  turn  demanded  reinstate- 
ment of  the  Democratic  Alliance  members  of  Congress;  disband- 
ment  of  the  military  police,  which  in  the  1945-48  period  had  been 
the  equivalent  of  the  old  Philippine  Constabulary;  and  a  general 
amnesty.  They  also  refused  to  give  up  their  arms.  In  March  1948, 
Roxas  declared  the  Huks  an  illegal  and  subversive  organization 
and  stepped  up  counterinsurgency  activities. 

Following  Roxas's  death  from  a  heart  attack  in  April  1948,  his 
successor,  Elpidio  Quirino,  opened  negotiations  with  Huk  leader 
Taruc,  but  nothing  was  accomplished.  That  same  year  the  com- 
munist PKP  decided  to  support  the  rebellion,  overcoming  its  reluc- 
tance to  rely  on  peasant  movements.  Although  it  lacked  a  peasant 
following,  the  PKP  declared  that  it  would  lead  the  Huks  on  all  levels 
and  in  1950  described  them  as  the  ' ' military  arm"  of  the  revolu- 
tionary movement  to  overthrow  the  government.  From  the  Huk 
movement's  inception,  the  government  considered  it  to  have  been 
communist  instigated,  an  extension  onto  the  Luzon  Plain  of  the 
international  revolutionary  strategy  of  the  Cominform  (see  Glos- 
sary) in  Moscow.  Yet  the  rebellion's  main  impetus  was  peasant 
grievances,  not  Leninist  designs.  The  principal  factors  were  con- 
tinuous tenant-landlord  conflicts,  in  which  the  government  actively 
took  the  part  of  the  latter,  dislocations  caused  by  the  war,  and 
perhaps  an  insurrectionist  tradition  going  back  several  centuries. 
According  to  historian  Benedict  Kerkvliet,  '  'The  PKP  did  not  in- 
spire or  control  the  peasant  movement  ....  What  appears  closer 
to  the  truth  is  that  the  PKP,  as  an  organization,  moved  back  and 
forth  between  alliance  and  nonalliance  with  the  peasant  movement 
in  Central  Luzon. "  Most  farmers  had  litde  interest  in  or  knowledge 
of  socialism.  Most  wanted  better  conditions,  not  redistribution  of 
land  or  collectivization.  The  landlord- tenant  relationship  itself  was 
not  challenged,  just  its  more  exploitive  and  impersonal  character 
in  the  contemporary  period. 

Huk  fortunes  reached  their  peak  between  1949  and  1951.  Vio- 
lence associated  with  the  November  1949  presidential  election,  in 
which  Quirino  was  reelected  on  the  Liberal  Party  ticket,  led  many 
farmers  to  support  the  Huks.  After  that  date  there  were  between 
11,000  and  15,000  armed  Huks.  Although  the  core  of  the  rebel- 
lion remained  in  Central  Luzon,  Huk  regional  committees  also  were 


46 


Historical  Setting 


established  in  the  provinces  of  Southern  Tagalog,  in  northern  Lu- 
zon, in  the  Visayan  Islands,  and  in  Mindanao.  Antigovernment 
activities  spread  to  areas  outside  the  movement's  heartland. 

Beginning  in  1951 ,  however,  the  momentum  began  to  slow.  This 
was  in  part  the  result  of  poor  training  and  the  atrocities  perpetrat- 
ed by  individual  Huks.  Their  mistreatment  of  Negrito  peoples  made 
it  almost  impossible  for  them  to  use  the  mountain  areas  where  these 
tribespeople  lived,  and  the  assassination  of  Aurora  Quezon,  Presi- 
dent Quezon's  widow,  and  of  her  family  by  Huks  outraged  the 
nation.  Many  Huks  degenerated  into  murderers  and  bank  robbers. 
Moreover,  in  the  words  of  one  guerrilla  veteran,  the  movement 
was  suffering  from  4 'battle  fatigue."  Lacking  a  hinterland,  such 
as  that  which  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Vietnam  (North  Viet- 
nam) provided  for  Viet  Cong  guerrillas  or  the  liberated  areas  es- 
tablished by  the  Chinese  Communists  before  1949,  the  Huks  were 
constantly  on  the  run.  Also  the  Huks  were  mainly  active  in  Cen- 
tral Luzon,  which  permitted  the  government  to  concentrate  its 
forces.  Other  decisive  factors  were  the  better  quality  of  United 
States-trained  Philippine  armed  forces  and  the  more  conciliatory 
policy  adopted  by  the  Quirino  government  toward  the  peasants. 

The  Magsaysay,  Garcia,  and  Macapagal  Administrations,  1953-65 

Ramon  Magsaysay,  a  member  of  Congress  from  Zambales 
Province  and  veteran  of  a  non-Huk  guerrilla  unit  during  the  war, 
became  secretary  of  defense  in  1950.  He  initiated  a  campaign  to 
defeat  the  insurgents  militarily  and  at  the  same  time  win  popular 
support  for  the  government.  With  United  States  aid  and  advisers, 
he  was  able  to  improve  the  quality  of  the  armed  forces,  whose  cam- 
paign against  the  Huks  had  been  largely  ineffective  and  heavy- 
handed.  In  1950  the  constabulary  was  made  part  of  the  armed  forces 
(it  had  previously  been  under  the  secretary  of  the  interior)  with 
its  own  separate  command.  All  armed  forces  units  were  placed  un- 
der strict  discipline,  and  their  behavior  in  the  villages  was  visibly 
more  restrained.  Peasants  felt  grateful  to  Magsaysay  for  ending 
the  forced  evacuations  and  harsh  pacification  tactics  that  some 
claimed  had  been  worse  than  those  of  the  Japanese  occupation. 

Nominated  as  Nacionalista  Party  presidential  candidate  in  April 
1953,  Magsaysay  won  almost  two-thirds  of  the  vote  over  his  op- 
ponent, Quirino,  in  November.  Often  compared  to  United  States 
president  Andrew  Jackson,  Magsaysay  styled  himself  as  a  man  of 
the  people.  He  invited  thousands  of  peasants  and  laborers  to  tour 
the  Malacafiang  Palace — the  presidential  residence  in  Manila — 
and  encouraged  farmers  to  send  him  telegrams,  free  of  charge,  with 
their  complaints.  In  the  countryside  a  number  of  small-scale  but 


47 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

highly  visible  projects  had  been  started,  including  the  building  of 
bridges,  roads,  irrigation  canals,  and  artesian  "liberty  wells";  the 
establishment  of  special  courts  for  landlord-tenant  disputes;  agricul- 
tural extension  services;  and  credit  for  farmers.  The  Economic  De- 
velopment Corps  project  settled  some  950  families  on  land  that  the 
government  had  purchased  on  Mindanao.  In  the  ensuing  years, 
this  program,  in  various  forms,  promoted  the  settlement  of  poor 
people  from  the  Christian  north  in  traditionally  Muslim  areas. 
Although  the  settlement  program  relieved  population  pressures  in 
the  north,  it  also  exacerbated  centuries-old  Muslim-Christian  hostil- 
ities. The  capture  and  killing  of  Huk  leaders,  the  dissolution  of  Huk 
regional  committees,  and  finally  the  surrender  of  Taruc  in  May 
1954  marked  the  waning  of  the  Huk  threat. 

Magsaysay's  vice  president,  Carlos  P.  Garcia,  succeeded  to  the 
presidency  after  Magsaysay's  death  in  an  airplane  crash  in  March 
1957  and  was  shortly  thereafter  elected  to  the  office.  Garcia  em- 
phasized the  nationalist  themes  of  "Filipino  First"  and  attainment 
of  "respectable  independence."  Further  discussions  with  the  United 
States  on  the  question  of  the  military  bases  took  place  in  1959.  Early 
agreement  was  reached  on  United  States  relinquishment  of  large 
land  areas  initially  reserved  for  bases  but  no  longer  required  for 
their  operation.  As  a  result,  the  United  States  turned  over  to  Philip- 
pine administration  the  town  of  Olongapo  on  Subic  Bay,  north  of 
Manila,  which  previously  had  been  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
United  States  Navy. 

The  1957  election  had  resulted,  for  the  first  time,  in  a  vice  presi- 
dent of  a  party  different  from  that  of  the  president.  The  new  vice 
president,  Diosdado  Macapagal,  ran  as  the  candidate  of  the  Liberal 
Party,  which  followers  of  Magsaysay  had  joined  after  unsuccess- 
ful efforts  to  form  an  effective  third  party.  By  the  time  of  the  1961 
presidential  election,  the  revived  Liberal  Party  had  built  enough 
of  a  following  to  win  the  presidency  for  Macapagal.  In  this  elec- 
tion, the  returns  from  each  polling  place  were  reported  by  observ- 
ers (who  had  been  placed  there  by  newspapers)  as  soon  as  the  votes 
were  counted.  This  system,  known  as  Operation  Quick  Count,  was 
designed  to  prevent  fraud. 

The  issue  of  jurisdiction  over  United  States  service  personnel 
in  the  Philippines,  which  had  not  been  fully  settled  after  the  1959 
discussions,  continued  to  be  a  problem  in  relations  between  the 
two  countries.  A  series  of  incidents  in  the  1960-65  period,  chiefly 
associated  with  Clark  Air  Base,  aroused  considerable  anti- American 
feelings  and  demonstrations.  Negotiations  took  place  and  resulted 
in  an  August  1965  agreement  to  adopt  provisions  similar  to  the  sta- 
tus of  forces  agreement  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 


48 


Historical  Setting 


regarding  criminal  jurisdiction.  In  the  next  four  years,  agreements 
were  reached  on  several  other  matters  relating  to  the  bases,  includ- 
ing a  1966  amendment  to  the  1947  agreement,  which  moved  the 
expiration  date  of  the  fixed  term  for  United  States  use  of  the  mili- 
tary facilities  up  to  1991. 

Philippine  foreign  policy  under  Macapagal  sought  closer  rela- 
tions with  neighboring  Asian  peoples.  In  July  1963,  he  convened 
a  summit  meeting  in  Manila  consisting  of  the  Philippines,  Indone- 
sia, and  Malaya.  An  organization  called  MAPHILINDO  was  pro- 
posed; much  heralded  in  the  local  press  as  a  realization  of  Rizal's 
dream  of  bringing  together  the  Malay  peoples,  MAPHILINDO 
was  described  as  a  regional  association  that  would  approach  issues 
of  common  concern  in  the  spirit  of  consensus.  MAPHILINDO  was 
quickly  shelved,  however,  in  the  face  of  the  continuing  confronta- 
tion between  Indonesia  and  newly  established  Malaysia  and  the 
Philippines'  own  claim  to  Sabah,  the  territory  in  northeastern  Bor- 
neo that  had  become  a  Malaysian  state  in  1963. 

Marcos  and  the  Road  to  Martial  Law,  1965-72 

In  the  presidential  election  of  1965,  the  Nacionalista  candidate, 
Ferdinand  E.  Marcos  (1917-90),  triumphed  over  Macapagal.  Mar- 
cos dominated  the  political  scene  for  the  next  two  decades,  first 
as  an  elected  president  in  1965  and  1969,  and  then  as  a  virtual 
dictator  after  his  1972  proclamation  of  martial  law.  He  was  born 
in  llocos  Norte  Province  at  the  northwestern  tip  of  Luzon,  a  tradi- 
tionally poor  and  clannish  region.  He  was  a  brilliant  law  student, 
who  successfully  argued  before  the  Philippine  Supreme  Court  in 
the  late  1930s  for  a  reversal  of  a  murder  conviction  against  him 
(he  had  been  convicted  of  shooting  a  political  rival  of  his  father) . 
During  World  War  II,  Marcos  served  in  the  Battle  of  Bataan  and 
then  claimed  to  have  led  a  guerrilla  unit,  the  Maharlikas.  Like  many 
other  aspects  of  his  life,  Marcos' s  war  record  and  the  large  num- 
ber of  United  States  and  Philippine  military  medals  that  he  claimed 
(at  one  time  including  the  Congressional  Medal  of  Honor),  came 
under  embarrassing  scrutiny  during  the  last  years  of  his  presiden- 
cy. His  stories  of  wartime  gallantry,  which  were  inflated  by  the 
media  into  a  personality  cult  during  his  years  in  power,  enthralled 
not  only  Filipino  voters  but  also  American  presidents  and  mem- 
bers of  Congress. 

In  1949  Marcos  gained  a  seat  in  the  Philippine  House  of 
Representatives;  he  became  a  senator  in  1959.  His  1954  marriage 
to  former  beauty  queen  Imelda  Romualdez  provided  him  with  a 


49 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


photogenic  partner  and  skilled  campaigner.  She  also  had  family 
connections  with  the  powerful  Romualdez  political  dynasty  of  Leyte 
in  the  Visayas. 

During  his  first  term  as  president,  Marcos  initiated  ambitious 
public  works  projects — roads,  bridges,  schools,  health  centers,  ir- 
rigation facilities,  and  urban  beautification  projects — that  improved 
the  quality  of  life  and  also  provided  generous  pork  barrel  benefits 
for  his  friends.  Massive  spending  on  public  works  was,  politically, 
a  cost-free  policy  not  only  because  the  pork  barrel  won  him  loyal 
allies  but  also  because  both  local  elites  and  ordinary  people  viewed 
a  new  civic  center  or  bridge  as  a  benefit.  By  contrast,  a  land  re- 
form program — part  of  Marcos 's  platform  as  it  had  been  that  of 
Macapagal  and  his  predecessors — would  alienate  the  politically  all- 
powerful  landowner  elite  and  thus  was  never  forcefully  im- 
plemented. 

Marcos  lobbied  rigorously  for  economic  and  military  aid  from 
the  United  States  but  resisted  pressure  from  President  Lyndon  John- 
son to  become  significantly  involved  in  the  Second  Indochina  War. 
Marcos 's  contribution  to  the  war  was  limited  to  a  2,000-member 
Philippine  Civic  Action  Group  sent  to  the  Republic  of  Vietnam 
(South  Vietnam)  between  1966  and  1969.  The  Philippines  became 
one  of  the  founding  members  of  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  established  in  1967.  Disputes  with  fel- 
low ASEAN  member  Malaysia  over  Sabah  in  northeast  Borneo, 
however,  continued,  and  it  was  discovered,  after  an  army  mutiny 
and  murder  of  Muslim  troops  in  1968  (the  "Corregidor  Incident"), 
that  the  Philippine  army  was  training  a  special  unit  to  infiltrate 
Sabah  (see  Relations  with  Asian  Neighbors,  ch.  4). 

Although  Marcos  was  elected  to  a  second  term  as  president  in 
1969 — the  first  president  of  the  independent  Philippines  to  gain 
a  second  term — the  atmosphere  of  optimism  that  characterized  his 
first  years  in  power  was  largely  dissipated.  Economic  growth  slowed. 
Ordinary  Filipinos,  especially  in  urban  areas,  noted  a  deteriorat- 
ing quality  of  life  reflected  in  spiraling  crime  rates  and  random  vio- 
lence. Communist  insurgency,  particularly  the  activity  of  the  Huks, 
had  degenerated  into  gangsterism  during  the  late  1950s,  but  the 
Communist  Party  of  the  Philippines-Marxist  Leninist,  usually 
referred  to  as  the  CPP,  was  "reestablished"  in  1968  along  Maoist 
lines  in  Tarlac  Province  north  of  Manila,  leaving  only  a  small  rem- 
nant of  the  original  PKF.  The  CPP's  military  arm,  the  New  Peo- 
ple's Army  (NPA),  soon  spread  from  Tarlac  to  other  parts  of  the 
archipelago.  On  Mindanao  and  in  the  Sulu  Archipelago,  violence 
between  Muslims  and  Christians,  the  latter  often  recent  gov- 
ernment-sponsored immigrants  from  the  north,  was  on  the  rise. 


50 


Historical  Setting 


In  1969  the  Moro  National  Liberation  Front  (MNLF)  was  or- 
ganized on  Malaysian  soil.  The  MNLF  conducted  an  insurrection 
supported  by  Malaysia  and  certain  Islamic  states  in  the  Middle 
East,  including  Libya. 

The  carefully  crafted  "Camelot"  atmosphere  of  Marcos's  first 
inauguration,  in  which  he  cast  himself  in  the  role  of  John  F.  Kenne- 
dy with  Imelda  as  his  Jackie,  gave  way  in  1970  to  general  dissatis- 
faction with  what  had  been  one  of  the  most  dishonest  elections  in 
Philippine  history  and  fears  that  Marcos  might  engineer  change 
in  the  1935  constitution  to  maintain  himself  in  power.  On  Janu- 
ary 30,  1970,  the  "Battle  of  Mendiola,"  named  after  a  street  in 
front  of  the  Malacanang  Palace,  the  presidential  mansion,  pitted 
student  demonstrators,  who  tried  to  storm  the  palace,  against  riot 
police  and  resulted  in  many  injuries. 

Random  bombings,  officially  attributed  to  communists  but  prob- 
ably set  by  government  agent  provocateurs,  occurred  in  Manila 
and  other  large  cities.  Most  of  these  only  destroyed  property,  but 
grenade  explosions  in  the  Plaza  Miranda  in  Manila  during  an  op- 
position Liberal  Party  rally  on  August  21,  1971,  killed  9  people 
and  wounded  100  (8  of  the  wounded  were  Liberal  Party  candidates 
for  the  Senate).  Although  it  has  never  been  conclusively  shown  who 
was  responsible  for  the  bombing,  Marcos  blamed  leftists  and  sus- 
pended habeas  corpus — a  prelude  to  martial  law.  But  evidence  sub- 
sequently pointed,  again,  to  government  involvement. 

Government  and  opposition  political  leaders  agreed  that  the  coun- 
try's constitution,  American-authored  during  the  colonial  period, 
should  be  replaced  by  a  new  document  to  serve  as  the  basis  for 
thorough- going  reform  of  the  political  system.  In  1967  a  bill  was 
passed  providing  for  a  constitutional  convention,  and  three  years  later, 
delegates  to  the  convention  were  elected.  It  first  met  in  June  1971 . 

The  1935  constitution  limited  the  president  to  two  terms.  Op- 
position delegates,  fearing  that  a  proposed  parliamentary  system 
would  allow  Marcos  to  maintain  himself  in  power  indefinitely, 
prevailed  on  the  convention  to  adopt  a  provision  in  September  1971 
banning  Marcos  and  members  of  his  family  from  holding  the  po- 
sition of  head  of  state  or  government  under  whatever  arrangement 
was  finally  established.  But  Marcos  succeeded,  through  the  use  of 
bribes  and  intimidation,  in  having  the  ban  nullified  the  following 
summer.  Even  if  Marcos  had  been  able  to  contest  a  third  presiden- 
tial term  in  1973,  however,  both  the  1971  mid-term  elections  and 
subsequent  public  opinion  polls  indicated  that  he  or  a  designated 
successor — Minister  of  National  Defense  Juan  Ponce  Enrile  or  the 
increasingly  ambitious  Imelda  Marcos — would  likely  be  defeated 
by  his  arch-rival,  Senator  Benigno  "Ninoy"  Aquino. 


51 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Proclamation  1081  and  Martial  Law 

On  September  21,  1972,  Marcos  issued  Proclamation  1081, 
declaring  martial  law  over  the  entire  country.  Under  the  president's 
command,  the  military  arrested  opposition  figures,  including  Benig- 
no  Aquino,  journalists,  student  and  labor  activists,  and  criminal 
elements.  A  total  of  about  30,000  detainees  were  kept  at  military 
compounds  run  by  the  army  and  the  Philippine  Constabulary. 
Weapons  were  confiscated,  and  "private  armies"  connected  with 
prominent  politicians  and  other  figures  were  broken  up.  Newspapers 
were  shut  down,  and  the  mass  media  were  brought  under  tight 
control.  With  the  stroke  of  a  pen,  Marcos  closed  the  Philippine 
Congress  and  assumed  its  legislative  responsibilities.  During  the 
1972-81  martial  law  period,  Marcos,  invested  with  dictatorial  pow- 
ers, issued  hundreds  of  presidential  decrees,  many  of  which  were 
never  published. 

Like  much  else  connected  with  Marcos,  the  declaration  of  mar- 
tial law  had  a  theatrical,  smoke-and-mirrors  quality.  The  incident 
that  precipitated  Proclamation  1081  was  an  attempt,  allegedly  by 
communists,  to  assassinate  Minister  of  National  Defense  Enrile. 
As  Enrile  himself  admitted  after  Marcos' s  downfall  in  1986,  his 
unoccupied  car  had  been  riddled  by  machine-gun  bullets  fired  by 
his  own  men  on  the  night  that  Proclamation  1081  was  signed. 

Most  Filipinos — or  at  least  those  well  positioned  within  the  eco- 
nomic and  social  elites — initially  supported  the  imposition  of  martial 
law.  The  rising  tide  of  violence  and  lawlessness  was  apparent  to 
everyone.  Although  still  modest  in  comparison  with  the  Huk  in- 
surgency of  the  early  1950s,  the  New  People's  Army  was  expand- 
ing, and  the  Muslim  secessionist  movement  continued  in  the  south 
with  foreign  support.  Well-worn  themes  of  communist  conspiracy — 
Marcos  claimed  that  a  network  of  "front  organizations"  was  oper- 
ating "among  our  peasants,  laborers,  professionals,  intellectuals, 
students,  and  mass  media  personnel" — found  a  ready  audience  in 
the  United  States,  which  did  not  protest  the  demise  of  Philippine 
democracy. 

The  New  Society 

Marcos  claimed  that  martial  law  was  the  prelude  to  creating  a 
"New  Society"  based  on  new  social  and  political  values.  He  ar- 
gued that  certain  aspects  of  personal  behavior,  attributed  to  a  coloni- 
al mentality,  were  obstacles  to  effective  modernization.  These 
included  the  primacy  of  personal  connections,  as  reflected  in  the 
ethic  of  utang  na  loob,  and  the  importance  of  maintaining  in- group 


52 


Historical  Setting 


harmony  and  coherence,  even  at  the  cost  to  the  national  commu- 
nity. A  new  spirit  of  self-sacrifice  for  the  national  welfare  was  neces- 
sary if  the  country  were  to  equal  the  accomplishments  of  its  Asian 
neighbors,  such  as  Taiwan  and  the  Republic  of  Korea  (South 
Korea).  Despite  Marcos' s  often  perceptive  criticisms  of  the  old  so- 
ciety, Marcos,  his  wife,  and  a  small  circle  of  close  associates,  the 
crony  (see  Glossary)  group,  now  felt  free  to  practice  corruption  on 
an  awe-inspiring  scale. 

Political,  economic,  and  social  policies  were  designed  to  neu- 
tralize Marcos 's  rivals  within  the  elite.  The  old  political  system, 
with  its  parties,  rough-and-tumble  election  campaigns,  and  a  press 
so  uninhibited  in  its  vituperative  and  libelous  nature  that  it  was 
called  "the  freest  in  the  world,"  had  been  boss-ridden  and  domi- 
nated by  the  elite  since  early  American  colonial  days,  if  not  be- 
fore. The  elite,  however,  composed  of  local  political  dynasties,  had 
never  been  a  homogeneous  group.  Its  feuds  and  tensions,  fueled 
as  often  by  assaults  on  amor  proprio  (self-esteem)  as  by  disagreement 
on  ideology  or  issues,  made  for  a  pluralistic  system. 

Marcos 's  self-proclaimed  "revolution  from  the  top"  deprived 
significant  portions  of  the  old  elite  of  power  and  patronage.  For 
example,  the  powerful  Lopez  family,  who  had  fallen  out  of  Mar- 
cos's  favor  (Fernando  Lopez  had  served  as  Marcos 's  first  vice  presi- 
dent), was  stripped  of  most  of  its  political  and  economic  assets. 
Although  always  influential,  during  the  martial  law  years,  Imelda 
Marcos  built  her  own  power  base,  with  her  husband's  support. 
Concurrently  the  governor  of  Metro  Manila  (see  Glossary)  and 
minister  of  human  setdements  (a  post  created  for  her),  she  exer- 
cised significant  powers. 

Crony  Capitalism 

During  the  first  years  of  martial  law,  the  economy  benefited  from 
increased  stability,  and  business  confidence  was  bolstered  by  Mar- 
cos's  appointment  of  talented  technocrats  to  economic  planning 
posts.  Despite  the  1973  oil  price  rise  shock,  the  growth  of  the  gross 
national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary)  was  respectable,  and  the 
oil-pushed  inflation  rate,  reaching  40  percent  in  1974,  was  trimmed 
back  to  10  percent  the  following  year.  Between  1973  and  the  early 
1980s,  dependence  on  imported  oil  was  reduced  by  domestic  finds 
and  successful  energy  substitution  measures,  including  one  of  the 
world's  most  ambitious  geothermal  energy  programs.  Claiming  that 
"if  land  reform  fails,  there  is  no  New  Society,"  Marcos  launched 
highly  publicized  new  initiatives  that  resulted  in  the  formal  trans- 
fer of  land  to  some  184,000  farming  families  by  late  1975.  The  law 
was  filled  with  loopholes,  however,  and  had  little  impact  on  local 


53 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

landowning  elites  or  landless  peasants,  who  remained  desperately 
poor. 

The  largest,  most  productive,  and  technically  most  advanced 
manufacturing  enterprises  were  gradually  brought  under  the  con- 
trol of  Marcos 's  cronies.  For  example,  the  huge  business  conglomer- 
ate owned  by  the  Lopez  family,  which  included  major  newspapers, 
a  broadcast  network,  and  the  country's  largest  electric  power  com- 
pany, was  broken  up  and  distributed  to  Marcos  loyalists  includ- 
ing Imelda  Marcos's  brother,  Benjamin  "Kokoy"  Romualdez,  and 
another  loyal  crony,  Roberto  Benedicto.  Huge  monopolies  and 
semimonopolies  were  established  in  manufacturing,  construction, 
and  financial  services.  When  these  giants  proved  unprofitable,  the 
government  subsidized  them  with  allocations  amounting  to 
hundreds  of  millions  of  pesos.  Philippine  Airlines,  the  nation's  in- 
ternational and  domestic  air  carrier,  was  nationalized  and  turned 
into  what  one  author  has  called  a  "virtual  private  commuter  line" 
for  Imelda  Marcos  and  her  friends  on  shopping  excursions  to  New 
York  and  Europe  (see  Transportation,  ch.  3). 

Probably  the  most  negative  impact  of  crony  capitalism,  however, 
was  felt  in  the  traditional  cash-crop  sector,  which  employed  mil- 
lions of  ordinary  Filipinos  in  the  rural  areas.  (The  coconut  indus- 
try alone  brought  income  to  an  estimated  15  million  to  18  million 
people.)  Under  Benedicto  and  Eduardo  Cojuangco,  distribution 
and  marketing  monopolies  for  sugar  and  coconuts  were  established. 
Farmers  on  the  local  level  were  obliged  to  sell  only  to  the  monopo- 
lies and  received  less  than  world  prices  for  their  crops;  they  also 
were  the  first  to  suffer  when  world  commodity  prices  dropped.  Mil- 
lions of  dollars  in  profits  from  these  monopolies  were  diverted  over- 
seas into  Swiss  bank  accounts,  real  estate  deals,  and  purchases  of 
art,  jewelry,  and  antiques.  On  the  island  of  Negros  in  the  Visayas, 
the  region  developed  by  Nicholas  Loney  for  the  sugar  industry  in 
the  nineteenth  century,  sugar  barons  continued  to  live  lives  of  lux- 
ury, but  the  farming  community  suffered  from  degrees  of  malnutri- 
tion rare  in  other  parts  of  Southeast  Asia. 

Ferdinand  Marcos  was  responsible  for  making  the  previously 
nonpolitical,  professional  Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines,  which 
since  American  colonial  times  had  been  modeled  on  the  United 
States  military,  a  major  actor  in  the  political  process.  This  subver- 
sion occurred  in  two  ways.  First,  Marcos  appointed  officers  from 
the  Ilocos  region,  his  home  province,  to  its  highest  ranks.  Region- 
al background  and  loyalty  to  Marcos  rather  than  talent  or  a  dis- 
tinguished service  record  were  the  major  factors  in  promotion. 
Fabian  Ver,  for  example,  had  been  a  childhood  friend  of  Marcos 
and  later  his  chauffeur.  He  rose  to  become  chief  of  staff  of  the  armed 


54 


Historical  Setting 


forces  and  head  of  the  internal  security  network.  Secondly,  both 
officers  and  the  rank  and  file  became  beneficiaries  of  generous  bud- 
get allocations.  Officers  and  enlisted  personnel  received  generous 
salary  increases.  Armed  forces  personnel  increased  from  about 
58,000  in  1971  to  142,000  in  1983.  Top-ranking  military  officers, 
including  Ver,  played  an  important  policy-making  role.  On  the 
local  level,  commanders  had  opportunities  to  exploit  the  economy 
and  establish  personal  patronage  networks,  as  Marcos  and  the  mili- 
tary establishment  evolved  a  symbiotic  relationship  under  martial 
law. 

A  military  whose  commanders,  with  some  exceptions,  were  re- 
warded for  loyalty  rather  than  competence  proved  both  brutal  and 
ineffective  in  dealing  with  the  rapidly  growing  communist  insur- 
gency and  Muslim  separatist  movement.  Treatment  of  civilians 
in  rural  areas  was  often  harsh,  causing  rural  people,  as  a  measure 
of  self-protection  rather  than  ideological  commitment,  to  cooper- 
ate with  the  insurgents.  The  communist  insurgency,  after  some 
reverses  in  the  1970s,  grew  quickly  in  the  early  1980s,  particularly 
in  some  of  the  poorest  regions  of  the  country.  The  Muslim  separatist 
movement  reached  a  violent  peak  in  the  mid-1970s  and  then 
declined  greatly  because  of  divisions  in  the  leadership  of  the  move- 
ment and  reduced  external  support  brought  about  by  the  diplo- 
matic activity  of  the  Marcos  government. 

Relations  with  the  United  States  remained  most  important  for 
the  Philippines  in  the  1970s,  although  the  special  relationship  be- 
tween the  former  and  its  ex-colony  was  greatly  modified  as  trade, 
investment,  and  defense  ties  were  redefined  (see  Relations  with  the 
United  States,  ch.  4).  The  Laurel- Langley  Agreement  defining 
preferential  United  States  tariffs  for  Philippine  exports  and  parity 
privileges  for  United  States  investors  expired  on  July  4,  1974,  and 
trade  relations  were  governed  thereafter  by  the  international  General 
Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade  (GATT) .  During  the  martial  law 
period,  foreign  investment  terms  were  substantially  liberalized, 
despite  official  rhetoric  about  foreign  "exploitation"  of  the  econo- 
my. A  policy  promoting  "nontraditional"  exports  such  as  textiles, 
footwear,  electronic  components,  and  fresh  and  processed  foods 
was  initiated  with  some  success.  Japan  increasingly  challenged  the 
United  States  as  a  major  foreign  participant  in  the  Philippine 
economy. 

The  status  of  United  States  military  bases  was  redefined  when 
a  major  amendment  to  the  Military  Bases  Agreement  of  1947  was 
signed  on  January  6,  1979,  reaffirming  Philippine  sovereignty  over 
the  bases  and  reducing  their  total  area.  At  the  same  time,  the  United 
States  administration  promised  to  make  its  "best  effort"  to  obtain 


55 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

congressional  appropriations  for  military  and  economic  aid  amount- 
ing to  US$400  million  between  1979  to  1983.  The  amendment 
called  for  future  reviews  of  the  bases  agreement  every  fifth  year. 
Although  the  administration  of  President  Jimmy  Carter  empha- 
sized promoting  human  rights  worldwide,  only  limited  pressure 
was  exerted  on  Marcos  to  improve  the  behavior  of  the  military  in 
rural  areas  and  to  end  the  death- squad  murder  of  opponents.  (Pres- 
sure from  the  United  States,  however,  did  play  a  role  in  gaining 
the  release  of  Benigno  Aquino  in  May  1980,  and  he  was  allowed 
to  go  to  the  United  States  for  medical  treatment  after  spending 
almost  eight  years  in  prison,  including  long  stretches  of  time  in 
solitary  confinement.) 

On  January  17,  1981,  Marcos  issued  Proclamation  2045,  for- 
mally ending  martial  law.  Some  controls  were  loosened,  but  the 
ensuing  New  Republic  proved  to  be  a  superficially  liberalized  ver- 
sion of  the  crony-dominated  New  Society.  Predictably,  Marcos  won 
an  overwhelming  victory  in  the  June  1981  presidential  election, 
boycotted  by  the  main  opposition  groups,  in  which  his  opponents 
were  nonentities. 

From  Aquino's  Assassination  to  People's  Power 

Benigno  "Ninoy"  Aquino  was,  like  his  life-long  rival  Ferdinand 
Marcos,  a  consummate  politician,  Philippine- style.  Born  in  1932, 
he  interrupted  his  college  studies  to  pursue  a  journalistic  career, 
first  in  wartime  Korea  and  then  in  Vietnam,  Malaya,  and  other 
parts  of  Southeast  Asia.  Like  Marcos,  a  skilled  manager  of  his  own 
public  image,  he  bolstered  his  popularity  by  claiming  credit  for 
negotiating  the  May  1954  surrender  of  Huk  leader  Luis  Taruc. 
The  Aquino  family  was  to  Tarlac  Province  in  Central  Luzon  what 
the  Marcos  family  was  to  Ilocos  Norte  and  the  Romualdez  family 
was  to  Leyte:  a  political  dynasty.  Aquino  became  the  governor  of 
Tarlac  Province  in  1963,  and  a  member  of  the  Senate  in  1967.  His 
marriage  to  Corazon  Cojuangco,  a  member  of  one  of  the  coun- 
try's richest  and  most  prominent  Chinese  mestizo  families,  was, 
like  Marcos 's  marriage  to  Imelda  Romualdez,  a  great  help  to  his 
political  career.  If  martial  law  had  not  been  declared  in  Septem- 
ber 1972,  Aquino  would  probably  have  defeated  Marcos  or  a  hand- 
picked  successor  in  the  upcoming  presidential  election.  Instead, 
he  was  one  of  the  first  to  be  jailed  when  martial  law  was  imposed. 

Aquino's  years  in  jail — physical  hardship,  the  fear  of  imminent 
death  at  the  hands  of  his  jailers,  and  the  opportunity  to  read  and 
meditate — seemed  to  have  transformed  the  fast-talking  political 
operator  into  a  deeper  and  more  committed  leader  of  the  democra- 
tic opposition.  Although  he  was  found  guilty  of  subversion  and 


56 


Historical  Setting 


sentenced  to  death  by  a  military  court  in  November  1977,  Aqui- 
no, still  in  prison,  led  the  LABAN  (Lakas  Ng  Bayan — Strength 
of  the  Nation)  party  in  its  campaign  to  win  seats  in  the  1978  legis- 
lative election  and  even  debated  Marcos 's  associate,  Enrile,  on 
television.  The  vote  was  for  seats  in  the  legislature  called  the  Na- 
tional Assembly,  initiated  in  1978,  which  was,  particularly  in  its 
first  three  years,  essentially  a  rubber-stamp  body  designed  to  pass 
Marcos 's  policies  into  law  with  the  appearance  of  correct  legal  form. 
(The  LABAN  was  unsuccessful,  but  it  gained  40  percent  of  the 
vote  in  Metro  Manila.) 

Allowed  to  go  to  the  United  States  for  medical  treatment  in  1980, 
Benigno  Aquino,  accompanied  by  his  wife,  became  a  major  lead- 
er of  the  opposition  in  exile.  In  1983  Aquino  was  fully  aware  of 
the  dangers  of  returning  to  the  Philippines.  Imelda  Marcos  had 
pointedly  advised  him  that  his  return  would  be  risky,  claiming  that 
communists  or  even  some  of  Marcos's  allies  would  try  to  kill  him. 
The  deterioration  of  the  economic  and  political  situation  and  Mar- 
cos's  own  worsening  health,  however,  persuaded  Aquino  that  the 
only  way  his  country  could  be  spared  civil  war  was  either  by  per- 
suading the  president  to  relinquish  power  voluntarily  or  by  build- 
ing a  responsible,  united  opposition.  In  his  view,  the  worst  possible 
outcome  was  a  post-Marcos  regime  led  by  Imelda  and  backed  by 
the  military  under  Ver. 

Aquino  was  shot  in  the  head  and  killed  as  he  was  escorted  off 
an  airplane  at  Manila  International  Airport  by  soldiers  of  the  Avi- 
ation Security  Command  on  August  21,  1983.  The  government's 
claim  that  he  was  the  victim  of  a  lone  communist  gunman,  Rolan- 
do Galman  (who  was  convenientiy  killed  by  Aviation  Security  Com- 
mand troops  after  the  alleged  act),  was  unconvincing.  A  commission 
appointed  by  Marcos  and  headed  by  jurist  Corazon  Agrava  con- 
cluded in  their  findings  announced  in  late  October  1984,  that  the 
assassination  was  the  result  of  a  military  conspiracy.  Marcos's  credi- 
bility, both  domestically  and  overseas,  was  mortally  wounded  when 
the  Sandiganbayan,  a  high  court  charged  with  prosecuting  govern- 
ment officials  for  crimes,  ignored  the  Agrava  findings,  upheld  the 
government's  story,  and  acquitted  Ver  and  twenty-four  other  mili- 
tary officers  and  one  civilian  in  December  1985. 

Although  ultimate  responsibility  for  the  act  still  had  not  been 
clearly  determined  in  the  early  1990s,  on  September  28,  1990,  a 
special  court  convicted  General  Luther  Custodio  and  fifteen  other 
officers  and  enlisted  members  of  the  Aviation  Security  Command 
of  murdering  Aquino  and  Galman.  Most  observers  believed, 
however,  that  Imelda  Marcos  and  Fabian  Ver  wanted  Aquino  assas- 
sinated. Imelda' s  remarks,  both  before  and  after  the  assassination, 


57 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

and  the  fact  that  Ver  had  become  her  close  confidant,  cast  suspi- 
cion on  them. 

For  the  Marcoses,  Aquino  became  a  more  formidable  opponent 
dead  than  alive.  His  funeral  drew  millions  of  mourners  in  the  larg- 
est demonstration  in  Philippine  history.  Aquino  became  a  martyr 
who  focused  popular  indignation  against  a  corrupt  regime.  The 
inevitable  outcome — Marcos 's  overthrow — could  be  delayed  but 
not  prevented. 

The  People's  Power  (see  Glossary)  movement,  which  bore  fruit 
in  the  ouster  of  Marcos  on  February  25,  1986,  was  broad-based 
but  primarily,  although  not  exclusively,  urban-based;  indeed  the 
movement  was  commonly  known  in  Manila  as  the  EDSA  Revo- 
lution (see  Glossary).  People's  Power  encompassed  members  of  the 
Roman  Catholic  hierarchy,  the  business  elite,  and  a  faction  of  the 
armed  forces.  Its  millions  of  rural,  working-class,  middle-class,  and 
professional  supporters  were  united  not  by  ideology  or  class  in- 
terests, but  by  their  esteem  for  Aquino's  widow,  Corazon,  and  their 
disgust  with  the  Marcos  regime.  After  her  husband's  assassination, 
Corazon  Aquino  assumed  first  a  symbolic  and  then  a  substantive 
role  as  leader  of  the  opposition.  A  devout  Catholic  and  a  shy  and 
self-styled  "simple  housewife,"  Mrs.  Aquino  inspired  trust  and 
devotion.  Some,  including  top  American  policy  makers,  regarded 
her  as  inexperienced  and  naive.  Yet  in  the  events  leading  up  to 
Marcos' s  ouster  she  displayed  unexpected  shrewdness  and  deter- 
mination. 

The  Old  Political  Opposition 

Martial  law  had  emasculated  and  marginalized  the  opposition, 
led  by  a  number  of  traditional  politicians  who  attempted,  with  limit- 
ed success,  to  promote  a  credible,  noncommunist  alternative  to 
Marcos.  The  most  important  of  these  was  Salvador  H.  "Doy" 
Laurel.  Laurel  organized  a  coalition  of  ten  political  groups,  the 
United  Nationalist  Democratic  Organization  (UNIDO),  to  con- 
test the  1982  National  Assembly  elections.  Although  he  included 
Benigno  Aquino  as  one  of  UNIDO's  twenty  "vice  presidents," 
Laurel  and  Aquino  were  bitter  rivals. 

The  Catholic  Church 

During  the  martial  law  and  post-martial  law  periods,  the  Catholic 
Church  was  the  country's  strongest  and  most  independent  non- 
governmental institution.  It  traditionally  had  been  conservative  and 
aligned  with  the  elites.  Parish  priests  and  nuns,  however,  witnessed 
the  sufferings  of  the  common  people  and  often  became  involved 
in  political,  and  even  communist,  activities.  One  of  the  best-known 


58 


Historical  Setting 


politicized  clergy  was  Father  Conrado  Balweg,  who  led  a  New  Peo- 
ple's Army  guerrilla  unit  in  the  tribal  minority  regions  of  north- 
ern Luzon.  Although  Pope  John  Paul  II  had  admonished  the  clergy 
worldwide  not  to  engage  in  active  political  struggle,  the  pope's  com- 
mitment to  human  rights  and  social  justice  encouraged  the  Philip- 
pine hierarchy  to  criticize  the  Marcos  regime's  abuses  in  the  late 
1970s  and  early  1980s.  Church-state  relations  deteriorated  as  the 
state-controlled  media  accused  the  church  of  being  infiltrated  by 
communists.  Following  Aquino's  assassination,  Cardinal  Jaime  Sin, 
archbishop  of  Manila  and  a  leader  of  the  Catholic  Bishops  Con- 
ference of  the  Philippines,  gradually  shifted  the  hierarchy's  stance 
from  one  of  "critical  collaboration"  to  one  of  open  opposition. 

A  prominent  Catholic  layman,  Jose  Concepcion,  played  a  ma- 
jor role  in  reviving  the  National  Movement  for  Free  Elections 
(NAMFREL)  with  church  support  in  1983  in  order  to  monitor  the 
1984  National  Assembly  elections.  Both  in  the  1984  balloting  and 
the  February  7,  1986,  presidential  election,  NAMFREL  played 
a  major  role  in  preventing,  or  at  least  reporting,  regime-instigated 
irregularities.  The  backbone  of  its  organization  was  formed  by  par- 
ish priests  and  nuns  in  virtually  every  part  of  the  country. 

The  Business  Elite 

The  Aquino  assassination  shattered  business  confidence  at  a  time 
when  the  economy  was  suffering  from  years  of  mismanagement 
under  the  cronies  and  unfavorable  international  conditions.  Busi- 
ness leaders,  especially  those  excluded  from  regime-nurtured  mo- 
nopolies, feared  that  a  continuation  of  the  status  quo  would  cause 
a  collapse  of  the  economy.  Their  apprehensions  were  shared  by 
foreign  creditors  and  international  agencies  such  as  the  Interna- 
tional Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary).  Inflation  and  unem- 
ployment were  soaring.  The  country's  GNP  became  stagnant  by 
1983,  and  then  it  contracted — by  -  6.8  percent  in  1984  and  -  3.8 
percent  in  1985,  according  to  the  IMF.  There  was  a  steep  decline 
both  in  domestic  and  foreign  investment.  Outward  capital  flows 
reached  as  high  as  US$2  million  a  day  in  the  panic  that  followed 
Aquino's  death.  The  Makati  area  of  Manila,  with  its  banks,  broker- 
age houses,  luxury  hotels,  and  upper-class  homes,  became  a  center 
of  vocal  resistance  to  the  Marcos  regime. 

The  Left 

Left-wing  groups,  affiliated  directly  or  indirectly  with  the  Com- 
munist Party  of  the  Philippines,  played  a  prominent  role  in  anti- 
regime  demonstrations  after  August  1983.  While  the  New  People's 
Army  was  spreading  in  rural  areas,  the  communists,  through  the 


59 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

National  Democratic  Front,  gained  influence,  if  not  control,  over 
some  labor  unions,  student  groups,  and  other  urban-based  organi- 
zations. Leftists  demanding  radical  political  change  established  the 
New  Nationalist  Alliance  (Bagong  Alyansang  Makabayan — 
BAYAN),  in  the  early  1980s,  but  their  political  influence  suffered 
considerably  from  their  decision  to  boycott  the  presidential  elec- 
tion of  February  1986. 

The  Armed  Forces 

Corruption  and  demoralization  of  the  armed  forces  led  to  the 
emergence,  in  the  early  1980s,  of  a  faction  of  young  officers,  mosdy 
graduates  of  the  elite  Philippine  Military  Academy,  known  as  the 
Reform  the  Armed  Forces  Movement  (RAM — see  Political  Role, 
ch.  5).  RAM  supported  a  restoration  of  pre-martial  law  "profes- 
sionalism" and  was  closely  allied  with  Minister  of  National  Defense 
Enrile,  long  a  Marcos  loyalist  yet  increasingly  unhappy  with  Ver's 
ascendancy  over  the  armed  forces. 

United  States  Reactions 

Given  its  past  colonial  association  and  continued  security  and 
economic  interests  in  the  Philippines,  the  United  States  never  was 
a  disinterested  party  in  Philippine  politics.  On  June  1,  1983,  the 
United  States  and  the  Philippines  signed  a  five-year  memorandum 
of  agreement  on  United  States  bases,  which  committed  the  Unit- 
ed States  administration  to  make  "best  efforts"  to  secure  US$900 
million  in  economic  and  military  aid  for  the  Philippines  between 
1984  and  1988.  The  agreement  reflected  both  United  States  secu- 
rity concerns  at  a  time  of  increased  Soviet-Western  tension  in  the 
Pacific  and  its  continued  faith  in  the  Marcos  regime. 

The  assassination  of  Aquino  shocked  United  States  diplomats 
in  Manila,  but  conservative  policy  makers  in  the  administration 
of  President  Ronald  Reagan  remained,  until  almost  the  very  end, 
supportive  of  the  Marcoses,  because  no  viable  alternative  seemed 
available.  In  hindsight,  United  States  support  for  the  moderate  Peo- 
ple's Power  movement  under  Corazon  Aquino,  backed  by  church 
and  business  groups,  would  seem  to  be  self-evident  common  sense. 
Yet  in  the  tense  days  and  weeks  leading  up  to  Marcos 's  ouster, 
many  policy  makers  feared  that  she  was  not  tough  or  canny  enough 
to  survive  a  military  coup  d'etat  or  a  communist  takeover. 

The  Snap  Election  and  Marcos 's  Ouster 

Indicative  of  the  importance  of  United  States  support  for  his  re- 
gime, Marcos  announced  his  decision  to  hold  a  "snap"  presiden- 
tial election  on  an  American  television  talk  show,  "This  Week  with 


60 


Historical  Setting 


David  Brinkley,"  in  November  1985.  He  promised  skeptical  Ameri- 
cans access  for  observer  teams,  setting  February  7,  1986,  a  year 
before  his  six-year  presidential  term  ran  out,  as  the  date  for  the 
election.  He  believed  his  early  reelection  would  solidify  United 
States  support,  silence  his  critics  in  the  Philippines  and  the  United 
States,  and  perhaps  banish  the  ghost  of  Benigno  Aquino.  Marcos' s 
smoothly  running,  well- financed  political  machine  and  the  divid- 
ed nature  of  the  opposition  promised  success,  but  his  decision  proved 
to  be  a  monumental  blunder. 

Cardinal  Sin,  an  astute  negotiator  described  by  one  diplomat 
as  '  'one  of  the  best  politicians  in  the  Philippines,"  arranged  a  po- 
litical alliance  of  convenience  between  Corazon  Aquino  and  Sal- 
vador Laurel,  who  had  announced  his  own  candidacy  but  agreed 
to  run  as  Aquino's  vice-presidential  candidate.  Aquino  had  im- 
mense popular  support  and  Laurel  brought  his  superior  organiza- 
tional skills  to  the  campaign.  Their  agreement  to  run  together  was 
arranged  just  in  time  for  the  deadline  for  submission  of  candida- 
cies in  early  December.  The  church  hierarchy  gave  its  moral  sup- 
port to  the  opposition  ticket.  Cardinal  Sin,  realizing  that  poor  people 
would  not  refuse  money  offered  for  votes  and  that  the  ethic  of  utang 
na  loob  would  oblige  them  to  vote  for  the  briber,  admonished  the 
voters  that  an  immoral  contract  was  not  binding  and  that  they 
should  vote  according  to  their  consciences. 

On  the  day  of  the  election,  NAMFREL  guarded  ballot  boxes 
and  tried  to  get  a  rapid  tally  of  the  results  in  order  to  prevent  ir- 
regularities. A  team  of  United  States  observers,  which  included 
a  joint  congressional  delegation,  issued  a  mild  criticism  of  elector- 
al abuses,  but  individual  members  expressed  shock  and  indigna- 
tion: Senator  Richard  Lugar  claimed  that  between  10  and  40 
percent  of  the  voters  had  been  disenfranchised  by  the  removal  of 
their  names  from  registration  rolls.  The  results  tabulated  by  the 
government's  Commission  on  Elections  (COMELEC)  showed 
Marcos  leading,  whereas  NAMFREL  figures  showed  a  majority 
for  the  Aquino-Laurel  ticket.  On  February  9,  computer  operators 
at  COMELEC  observed  discrepancies  between  their  figures  and 
those  officially  announced  and  walked  out  in  protest,  at  some  risk 
to  their  lives.  The  church  condemned  the  election  as  fraudulent, 
but  on  February  15,  the  Marcos-dominated  National  Assembly 
proclaimed  him  the  official  winner.  Despite  the  election  fraud,  the 
Reagan  administration's  support  for  Marcos  remained  strong,  as 
did  its  uncertainty  concerning  Corazon  Aquino.  Yet  a  consensus 
was  developing  among  policy  makers  in  the  White  House,  Depart- 
ment of  State,  Pentagon,  and  Congress  to  advise  the  withdrawal 
of  support  from  Marcos. 


61 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

On  February  22,  Enrile  and  General  Fidel  Ramos,  commander 
of  the  Philippine  Constabulary,  issued  a  joint  statement  demand- 
ing Marcos 's  resignation.  They  established  their  rebel  headquar- 
ters inside  Camp  Aguinaldo  and  the  adjoining  Camp  Crame  in 
Metro  Manila,  which  was  guarded  by  several  hundred  troops.  Mar- 
cos ordered  loyal  units  to  suppress  the  uprising,  but  Cardinal  Sin, 
broadcasting  over  the  Catholic-run  Radio  Veritas  (which  became 
the  voice  of  the  revolution),  appealed  to  the  people  to  bring  food 
and  supplies  for  the  rebels  and  to  use  nonviolence  to  block  pro- 
Marcos  troop  movements. 

Hundreds  of  thousands  responded.  In  the  tense  days  that  fol- 
lowed, priests,  nuns,  ordinary  citizens,  and  children  linked  arms 
with  the  rebels  and  faced  down,  without  violence,  the  tanks  and 
machine  guns  of  government  troops.  Many  of  the  government 
troops  defected,  including  the  crews  of  seven  helicopter  gunships, 
which  seemed  poised  to  attack  the  massive  crowd  on  February  24 
but  landed  in  Camp  Crame  to  announce  their  support  for  Peo- 
ple's Power.  Violent  confrontations  were  prevented.  The  Philip- 
pine troops  did  not  want  to  wage  war  on  their  own  people. 

Although  Marcos  held  an  inauguration  ceremony  at  Malacafiang 
Palace  on  February  25,  it  was  boycotted  by  foreign  ambassadors 
(with  the  exception,  in  an  apparently  unwitting  gaffe,  of  a  new 
Soviet  ambassador).  It  was,  for  the  Marcoses,  the  last,  pathetic 
hurrah.  Advised  by  a  United  States  senator,  Paul  Laxalt,  who  had 
close  ties  to  Reagan,  to  "cut  and  cut  cleanly,"  Marcos  realized 
that  he  had  lost  United  States  support  for  any  kind  of  arrangement 
that  could  keep  him  in  power.  By  that  evening,  the  Marcoses  had 
quit  the  palace  that  had  been  their  residence  for  two  decades  and 
were  on  their  way  to  exile  in  the  United  States.  Manila's  popula- 
tion surged  into  Malacafiang  to  view  the  evidence  of  the  Marcos 's 
extravagant  life-style  (including  Imelda's  much-publicized  hundreds 
of  pairs  of  expensive,  unworn  shoes).  An  almost  bloodless  revolu- 
tion brought  Corazon  Aquino  into  office  as  the  seventh  president 
of  the  Republic  of  the  Philippines  (see  The  Rise  of  Corazon  Aqui- 
no, ch.  4). 

*    *  * 

David  Joel  Steinberg's  The  Philippines  provides  a  good  general 
introduction  to  the  country  and  pays  considerable  attention  to 
historical  background.  For  good  discussions  of  the  Spanish  period, 
see  John  L.  Phelan's  The  Hispanicization  of  the  Philippines  and  Robert 
Reed's  Colonial  Manila.  Austin  Coate's  Rizal  provides  a  well-written 
account  of  one  of  the  most  extraordinary  lives  of  modern  times. 


62 


Historical  Setting 


On  the  American  annexation  of  the  islands,  Stuart  C.  Miller's 
Benevolent  Assimilation  is  a  valuable  work.  Peter  W.  Stanley's  Reap- 
praising an  Empire  is  a  good  study  of  the  American  colonial  period, 
and  Theodore  Friend's  The  Blue  Eyed  Enemy  discusses  the  Japanese 
occupation  in  comparison  with  neighboring  Indonesia.  One  of  the 
best  accounts  of  the  insurgency  is  Benedict  J.  Kerkvliet's  The  Huk 
Rebellion. 

Crisis  in  the  Philippines,  a  collection  of  essays  edited  by  John  Bres- 
nan,  provides  an  excellent  scholarly  discussion  of  the  Marcos  years 
and  the  events  that  brought  Corazon  Aquino  to  the  presidency. 
Waltzing  with  a  Dictator,  by  Raymond  Bonner,  discusses  Marcos' s 
relations  with  the  United  States,  martial  law,  and  the  collapse  of 
the  Marcos  regime.  People  Power,  edited  by  Monina  Allarey  Mer- 
cado,  describes  the  tense  and  exuberant  atmosphere  surrounding 
the  mass  movement  that  toppled  Marcos.  (For  further  informa- 
tion and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


63 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Locally  available  materials  are  effectively  used  for  housing  in  outlying 
areas. 


THE  PHILIPPINES  CONTINUED  to  be  primarily  a  rural  so- 
ciety in  1990,  despite  increasing  signs  of  urbanization.  The  family 
remained  the  prime  unit  of  social  awareness,  and  ritual  kin  rela- 
tions and  associations  of  a  patron-client  nature  still  were  the  basis 
for  social  groupings  beyond  the  nuclear  family,  rather  than  horizon- 
tal ties  forged  among  members  of  economically  based  social  class- 
es. Because  of  a  common  religious  tradition  and  the  spread  of 
Pilipino  as  a  widely  used,  if  not  thoroughly  accepted,  national  lan- 
guage, Filipinos  were  a  relatively  homogeneous  population,  with 
the  important  exceptions  of  the  Muslim  minority  on  Mindanao 
and  in  Sulu  and  southern  Palawan  provinces,  and  the  upland  tribal 
minorities  sprinkled  throughout  the  islands.  In  general,  Filipinos 
shared  a  common  set  of  values  emphasizing  social  acceptance  as 
a  primary  virtue  and  a  common  world  view  in  which  education 
served  as  the  principal  avenue  for  upward  social  mobility.  Cleavages 
in  the  society  were  based  primarily  on  religious  differences  (in  the 
case  of  Muslims  versus  Christians),  socio-cultural  differences  (in 
the  case  of  upland  tribes  versus  lowland  coastal  Filipinos),  and 
urban-rural  differences,  rather  than  ethnic  or  racial  considerations. 

Improvements  in  the  national  transportation  system  and  in  mass 
communications  in  most  parts  of  the  archipelago  in  the  1970s  and 
1980s  tended  to  reduce  ethnolinguistic  and  regional  divisions  among 
lowland  Filipinos,  who  made  up  more  than  90  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation. Some  resistance  to  this  cultural  homogeneity  remained, 
however,  and  continued  regional  identification  was  manifested  in 
loyalty  to  regional  languages  and  in  opposition  to  the  imposition 
of  a  national  language  based  largely  on  Tagalog,  the  language  of 
the  Manila  area. 

Large  numbers  of  rural  migrants  continued  to  flow  into  the  huge 
metropolitan  areas,  especially  Metro  Manila  (see  Glossary).  Filipi- 
nos also  migrated  in  substantial  numbers  to  the  United  States  and 
other  countries.  Many  of  these  migrants,  especially  those  to  the 
Middle  East,  migrated  only  to  fmd  temporary  employment  and 
retained  their  Philippine  domiciles. 

There  was  a  significant  shift  in  the  composition  of  the  elite  as 
a  result  of  political  and  economic  policies  following  the  end  of  the 
administration  of  President  Ferdinand  E.  Marcos  in  1986.  Some 
of  the  elite  families  displaced  by  the  Marcos  regime  regained  wealth 
and  influence,  but  many  of  the  families  enjoying  power,  privilege, 
and  prestige  in  the  early  1990s  were  not  the  same  as  those  enjoying 


67 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


similar  status  a  decade  earlier.  The  abolition  of  monopolistic  mar- 
keting boards,  along  with  some  progress  in  privatization,  elimi- 
nated the  economic  base  of  some  of  Marcos's  powerful  associates. 

As  a  result  of  economic  policies  that  permitted  fruit  and  logging 
companies  to  expand  their  landholdings,  previously  farmed  by  tribal 
people,  and  to  push  farther  and  farther  into  the  mountains  to  ex- 
ploit timber  resources,  upland  tribal  people  have  been  threatened 
and  dislocated,  and  the  country's  rich  rain  forests  have  suffered. 
Despite  government  efforts  to  instill  respect  for  cultural  diversity, 
it  remained  to  be  seen  whether  minorities  and  the  ecosystem  they 
shared  would  survive  the  onslaught  of  powerful  economic  forces 
that  include  the  migration  of  thousands  of  lowland  Filipinos  to  the 
frontier  areas  on  Mindanao,  as  well  as  the  intrusion  of  corporate 
extractive  industries.  Even  if  these  influences  were  held  in  check, 
the  attraction  of  lowland  society  might  wean  the  tribal  people  from 
their  customary  way  of  life. 

Population  growth  did  not  seem  to  be  a  major  concern  of  the 
government,  although  it  would  seem  that  the  continued  high  rate 
of  population  growth  aggravated  the  state  of  the  Philippine  economy 
and  health  care.  At  the  beginning  of  the  Aquino  administration, 
Roman  Catholic  clergy  withdrew  cooperation  from  the  Population 
Control  Commission  (Popcorn)  and  sought  its  elimination.  The 
commission  was  retained,  however,  and  government  efforts  to  re- 
duce population  growth  continued  but  hardly  on  a  scale  likely  to 
produce  major  results. 

Physical  Setting 

The  Philippine  archipelago  lies  in  Southeast  Asia  in  a  position 
that  has  led  to  its  becoming  a  cultural  crossroads,  a  place  where 
Malays,  Chinese,  Spaniards,  Americans,  and  others  have  inter- 
acted to  forge  that  unique  cultural  and  racial  blend  known  to  the 
world  as  Filipino.  The  archipelago  numbers  some  7,100  islands, 
and  the  nation  claims  an  exclusive  economic  zone  (EEZ — see  Glos- 
sary) of  200  nautical  miles  from  its  shores.  The  Philippines  occupies 
an  area  that  stretches  for  1,850  kilometers  from  about  the  fifth  to 
the  twentieth  parallels  north  latitude.  The  total  land  area  is  almost 
300,000  square  kilometers.  Only  approximately  1,000  of  its  islands 
are  populated,  and  fewer  than  one-half  of  these  are  larger  than  2.5 
square  kilometers.  Eleven  islands  make  up  94  percent  of  the  Philip- 
pine landmass,  and  two  of  these — Luzon  and  Mindanao — measure 
105,000  and  95,000  square  kilometers,  respectively.  They,  together 
with  the  cluster  of  the  Visayan  Islands  that  separate  them,  represent 
the  three  principal  regions  of  the  archipelago  that  are  identified 
by  the  three  stars  on  the  Philippine  flag.  Topographically,  the 


68 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Philippines  is  broken  up  by  the  sea,  which  gives  it  one  of  the  long- 
est coastlines  of  any  nation  in  the  world  (see  fig.  2).  Most  Filipi- 
nos live  on  or  near  the  coast,  where  they  can  easily  supplement 
their  diet  from  approximately  2,000  species  of  fish. 

Off  the  coast  of  eastern  Mindanao  is  the  Philippine  Trough, 
which  descends  to  a  depth  of  10,430  meters.  The  Philippines  is 
part  of  a  western  Pacific  arc  system  that  is  characterized  by  active 
volcanoes.  Among  the  most  notable  peaks  are  Mount  Mayon  near 
Legaspi,  Taal  Volcano  south  of  Manila,  and  Mount  Apo  on  Min- 
danao. All  of  the  Philippines  islands  are  prone  to  earthquakes.  The 
northern  Luzon  highlands,  or  Cordillera  Central,  rise  to  between 
2,500  and  2,750  meters,  and,  together  with  the  Sierra  Madre  in 
the  northeastern  portion  of  Luzon  and  the  mountains  of  Minda- 
nao, boast  rain  forests  that  provide  refuge  for  numerous  upland 
tribal  groups.  The  rain  forests  also  offer  prime  habitat  for  more 
than  500  species  of  birds,  including  the  Philippine  eagle  (or  monkey- 
eating  eagle),  some  800  species  of  orchids,  and  some  8,500  species 
of  flowering  plants. 

The  country's  most  extensive  river  systems  are  the  Pulangi  (Rio 
Grande),  which  flows  into  the  Mindanao  River;  the  Agusan,  in 
Mindanao,  which  flows  north  into  the  Mindanao  Sea;  the  Cagayan 
in  northern  Luzon;  and  the  Pampanga,  which  flows  south  from 
Central  Luzon  into  Manila  Bay.  Laguna  de  Bay,  southeast  of  Ma- 
nila Bay,  is  the  largest  freshwater  lake  in  the  Philippines.  Several 
rivers  have  been  harnessed  for  hydroelectric  power. 

The  Climate 

The  Philippines  has  a  tropical  marine  climate  dominated  by  a 
rainy  season  and  a  dry  season.  The  summer  monsoon  brings  heavy 
rains  to  most  of  the  archipelago  from  May  to  October,  whereas 
the  winter  monsoon  brings  cooler  and  drier  air  from  December 
to  February.  Manila  and  most  of  the  lowland  areas  are  hot  and 
dusty  from  March  to  May.  Even  at  this  time,  however,  tempera- 
tures rarely  rise  above  37°C.  Mean  annual  sea-level  temperatures 
rarely  fall  below  27 °C.  Annual  rainfall  measures  as  much  as  5,000 
millimeters  in  the  mountainous  east  coast  section  of  the  country, 
but  less  than  1,000  millimeters  in  some  of  the  sheltered  valleys. 

Monsoon  rains,  although  hard  and  drenching,  are  not  normal- 
ly associated  with  high  winds  and  waves.  But  the  Philippines  does 
sit  astride  the  typhoon  belt,  and  it  suffers  an  annual  onslaught  of 
dangerous  storms  from  July  through  October.  These  are  especial- 
ly hazardous  for  northern  and  eastern  Luzon  and  the  Bicol  and 
Eastern  Visayas  regions,  but  Manila  gets  devastated  periodically 
as  well. 


69 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

In  the  last  decade,  the  Philippines  has  suffered  severely  from 
natural  disasters.  In  1990  alone,  Central  Luzon  was  hit  by  both 
a  drought,  which  sharply  curtailed  hydroelectric  power,  and  by  a 
typhoon  that  flooded  practically  all  of  Manila's  streets.  Still  more 
damaging  was  an  earthquake  that  devastated  a  wide  area  in  Lu- 
zon, including  Baguio  and  other  northern  areas.  The  city  of  Cebu 
and  nearby  areas  were  struck  by  a  typhoon  that  killed  more  than 
a  hundred  people,  sank  vessels,  destroyed  part  of  the  sugar  crop, 
and  cut  off  water  and  electricity  for  several  days. 

Building  construction  is  undertaken  with  natural  disasters  in 
mind.  Most  rural  housing  has  consisted  of  nipa  huts  that  are  easily 
damaged  but  are  inexpensive  and  easy  to  replace.  Most  urban  build- 
ings are  steel  and  concrete  structures  designed  (not  always  success- 
fully) to  resist  both  typhoons  and  earthquakes.  Damage  is  still 
significant,  however,  and  many  people  are  displaced  each  year  by 
typhoons,  earthquakes,  and  other  natural  disasters.  In  1987  alone 
the  Department  of  Social  Welfare  and  Development  helped  2.4  mil- 
lion victims  of  natural  disasters. 

Population 

Population  Growth 

The  Philippine  population  in  the  early  1990s  continued  to  grow 
at  a  rapid,  although  somewhat  reduced  rate  from  that  which  had 
prevailed  in  the  preceding  decades.  In  1990  the  Philippine  popu- 
lation was  more  than  66  million,  up  from  48  million  in  1980.  This 
figure  represents  an  annual  growth  rate  of  2.5  percent,  down  from 
2.6  percent  in  1980  and  from  more  than  3  percent  in  the  1960s. 
Even  at  the  lower  growth  rate,  the  Philippine  population  will  in- 
crease to  more  than  84  million  by  the  year  2000  and  will  double 
every  twenty-eight  years  into  the  next  century.  Moreover,  in  1990 
the  population  was  still  a  youthful  one,  with  57  percent  under  the 
age  of  twenty.  The  birth  rate  in  early  1991  was  29  per  1,000,  and 
the  death  rate  was  7  per  1,000.  The  infant  mortality  rate  was  48 
deaths  per  1,000  live  births.  Population  density  increased  from  160 
per  square  kilometer  in  1980  to  220  in  1990.  The  rapid  popula- 
tion growth  and  the  size  of  the  younger  population  have  required 
the  Philippines  to  double  the  number  of  houses,  schools,  and  health 
facilities  every  twenty-nine  years  just  to  maintain  a  constant  level. 

Migration 

Two  significant  migration  trends  affected  population  figures  in  the 
1970s  and  the  1980s.  One  was  the  trend  of  migration  from  village 


70 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


to  city,  which  put  extra  stress  on  urban  areas.  As  of  the  early  1980s, 
thirty  cities  had  100,000  or  more  residents,  up  from  twenty-one 
cities  in  1970.  Metro  Manila's  population  was  5,924,563,  up  from 
4,970,006  in  1975,  marking  an  annual  growth  rate  of  3.6  percent. 
This  figure  was  far  above  the  national  average  of  2.5  percent. 
Within  Metro  Manila,  the  city  of  Manila  itself  was  growing  more 
slowly,  at  a  rate  of  only  1 .9  percent  per  annum,  but  two  other  cities 
within  this  complex,  Quezon  City  and  Caloocan,  were  booming 
at  rates  of  4  percent  and  3.5  percent,  respectively. 

A  National  Housing  Authority  report  revealed  that,  in  the  early 
1980s,  one  out  of  four  Metro  Manila  residents  was  a  squatter.  This 
figure  represented  a  150  percent  increase  in  a  decade  in  the  num- 
ber of  people  living  in  shanty  town  communities,  evidence  of  con- 
tinuing, virtually  uncontrolled,  rural-urban  migration.  The  city 
of  Manila  had  more  than  500,000  inhabitants  and  Quezon  City 
had  371,000  inhabitants  in  such  neighborhoods.  Moreover,  rural- 
urban  migrants,  responding  to  better  employment  opportunities 
in  peripheral  metropolitan  cities  such  as  Navotas,  had  boosted  the 
percentage  of  squatters  in  the  total  population  of  those  cities. 

A  second  major  migration  pattern  consisted  of  resettlement  from 
the  more  densely  to  the  less  densely  populated  regions.  As  a  result 
of  a  population-land  ratio  that  declined  from  about  one  cultivated 
hectare  per  agricultural  worker  in  the  1950s  to  about  0.5  hectare 
by  the  early  1980s,  thousands  of  Filipinos  had  migrated  to  the 
agricultural  frontier  on  Mindanao.  According  to  the  1980  census, 
six  of  the  twelve  fastest  growing  provinces  were  in  the  western, 
northern,  and  southern  Mindanao  regions,  and  a  seventh  was  the 
frontier  province  of  Palawan.  Sulu,  South  Cotabato,  Misamis 
Oriental,  Surigao  del  Norte,  Agusan  del  Norte,  and  Agusan  del 
Sur  provinces  all  had  annual  population  growth  rates  of  4  percent 
or  more,  a  remarkable  statistic  given  the  uncertain  law-and-order 
situation  on  Mindanao.  Among  the  fastest- growing  cities  in  the 
late  1970s  were  General  Santos  (10  percent  annual  growth  rate), 
Iligan  (6.9),  Cagayan  de  Oro  (6.7),  Cotabato  (5.7),  Zamboanga 
(5.4),  Butuan  (5.4),  and  Dipolog  (5.1) — all  on  Mindanao. 

By  the  early  1980s,  the  Mindanao  frontier  had  ceased  to  offer 
a  safety  valve  for  land-hungry  settlers.  Hitherto  peaceful  provinces 
had  become  dangerous  tinderboxes  in  which  mounting  numbers 
of  Philippine  army  troops  and  New  People's  Army  insurgents  car- 
ried on  a  sporadic  shooting  war  with  each  other  and  with  bandits, 
"lost  commands,"  millenarian  religious  groups,  upland  tribes,  log- 
gers, and  Muslims  (see  The  Counterinsurgency  Campaign,  ch.  5). 
Population  pressures  also  created  an  added  obstacle  to  land  reform. 
For  years,  the  poor  and  their  supporters  had  demanded  that  land 


73 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


tenure  be  restructured  so  that  the  large  holdings  of  landlords  could 
be  eliminated  and  peasants  could  become  farm  owners.  In  the  past, 
land  reform  had  been  opposed  by  landlords.  In  the  1990s  there 
simply  was  not  enough  land  to  enable  a  majority  of  the  rural  inhabi- 
tants to  become  landowners.  In  the  1980s  and  1990s,  international 
migration  offered  better  economic  opportunities  to  a  number  of  Fili- 
pinos without,  however,  reaching  the  point  where  it  relieved  popula- 
tion pressure.  Since  the  liberalization  of  United  States  immigration 
laws  in  1965,  the  number  of  people  in  the  United  States  having 
Filipino  ancestry  had  grown  to  1,406,770,  according  to  the  1990 
United  States  census.  In  the  fiscal  year  ending  September  30,  1990, 
the  United  States  Embassy  in  Manila  issued  45,189  immigrant  and 
85,128  temporary  visas,  the  largest  number  up  to  that  time.  In  the 
late  1980s  and  early  1990s,  more  than  half  a  million  temporary 
migrants  went  abroad  to  work  but  maintained  a  Philippine  resi- 
dence. This  number  included  contract  workers  in  the  Middle  East 
and  domestic  servants  in  Hong  Kong  and  Singapore,  as  well  as 
nurses  and  physicians  who  went  to  the  United  States  for  training 
and  work  experience.  A  fair  proportion  of  the  latter  group  managed 
to  become  permanent  residents.  The  remittances  sent  back  to  the 
Philippines  by  migrants  have  been  a  substantial  source  of  foreign 
exchange. 

Population  Control 

Popcorn  was  the  government  agency  with  primary  responsibility 
for  controlling  population  growth.  In  1985  Popcorn  set  a  target  for 
reducing  the  growth  rate  to  1  percent  by  2000.  To  reach  that  goal 
in  the  1990s,  Popcorn  recommended  that  families  have  a  maximum 
of  two  children,  that  they  space  the  birth  of  children  at  three-year 
intervals,  and  that  women  delay  marriage  to  age  twenty-three  and 
men  to  age  twenty-five. 

During  the  Marcos  regime  (1965-86),  there  was  a  rather  un- 
easy accommodation  between  the  Catholic  hierarchy  and  the 
government  population  control  program.  Bishops  served  on  Pop- 
corn, and  clinics  included  the  rhythm  method  as  a  birth-control 
method  about  which  they  could  give  information.  A  few  Catholic 
priests,  notably  Frank  Lynch,  even  called  for  energetic  support  of 
population  limitation. 

The  fall  of  Marcos  coincided  with  a  general  rise  of  skepticism 
about  the  relation  between  population  growth  and  economic  de- 
velopment. It  became  common  to  state  that  exploitation,  rather 
than  population  pressure,  was  the  cause  of  poverty.  The  bishops 
withdrew  from  the  Popcorn  board,  opposed  an  effort  to  reduce  the 


74 


Pasig  River  at  Manila  after  a  typhoon 
Courtesy  Robert  L.  Worden 

number  of  children  counted  as  dependents  for  tax  purposes,  secured 
the  removal  of  the  population-planning  clause  from  the  draft  of  the 
constitution,  and  attempted  to  end  government  population  programs. 
Attacks  on  the  government  population  program  were  defeated,  and 
efforts  to  popularize  family  planning,  along  with  the  provision  of 
contraceptive  materials,  continued.  In  the  early  1990s,  however,  the 
program  generally  lacked  the  firm  government  support  needed  to 
make  it  effective. 

Ethnicity,  Regionalism,  and  Language 

Historical  Development  of  Ethnic  Identities 

Philippine  society  was  relatively  homogeneous  in  1990,  espe- 
cially considering  its  distribution  over  some  1,000  inhabited  islands. 
Muslims  and  upland  tribal  peoples  were  obvious  exceptions,  but 
approximately  90  percent  of  the  society  remained  united  by  a 
common  cultural  and  religious  background.  Among  the  lowland 
Christian  Filipinos,  language  was  the  main  point  of  internal  dif- 
ferentiation, but  the  majority  interacted  and  intermarried  regu- 
larly across  linguistic  lines.  Because  of  political  centralization, 
urbanization,  and  extensive  internal  migration,  linguistic  barriers 
were  eroding,  and  government  emphasis  on  Pilipino  and  English 


75 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

(at  the  expense  of  local  dialects)  also  reduced  these  divisions. 
Nevertheless,  national  integration  remained  incomplete. 

Through  centuries  of  intermarriage,  Filipinos  had  become  a 
unique  blend  of  Malay,  Chinese,  Spanish,  Negrito,  and  Ameri- 
can. Among  the  earliest  inhabitants  were  Negritos,  followed  by 
Malays,  who  deserve  most  of  the  credit  for  developing  lowland 
Philippine  agricultural  life  as  it  is  known  in  the  modern  period 
(see  Early  History,  ch.  1).  As  the  Malays  spread  throughout  the 
archipelago,  two  things  happened.  First,  they  absorbed,  through 
intermarriage,  most  of  the  Negrito  population,  although  a  minority 
of  Negritos  remained  distinct  by  retreating  to  the  mountains.  Sec- 
ond, they  dispersed  into  separate  groups,  some  of  which  became 
relatively  isolated  in  pockets  on  Mindanao,  northern  Luzon,  and 
some  of  the  other  large  islands.  Comparative  linguistic  analysis  sug- 
gests that  most  groups  may  once  have  spoken  a  form  of  "proto- 
Manobo, ' '  but  that  each  group  developed  a  distinct  vernacular  that 
can  be  traced  to  its  contact  over  the  centuries  with  certain  groups 
and  its  isolation  from  others  (see  fig.  3). 

With  the  advent  of  Islam  in  the  southern  Philippines  during  the 
fifteenth  century,  separate  sultanates  developed  on  Mindanao  and 
in  the  Sulu  Archipelago.  By  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century, 
Islamic  influence  had  spread  as  far  north  as  Manila  Bay. 

Spain  colonized  the  Philippines  in  the  sixteenth  century  and  suc- 
ceeded in  providing  the  necessary  environment  for  the  develop- 
ment of  a  Philippine  national  identity;  however,  Spain  never 
completely  vitiated  Muslim  autonomy  on  Mindanao  and  in  the  Sulu 
Archipelago,  where  the  separate  Muslim  sultanates  of  Sulu, 
Maguindanao,  and  Maranao  remained  impervious  to  Christian 
conversion.  Likewise,  the  Spanish  never  succeeded  in  converting 
upland  tribal  groups,  particularly  on  Luzon  and  Mindanao.  The 
Spanish  influence  was  strongest  among  lowland  groups  and  ema- 
nated from  Manila.  Even  among  these  lowland  peoples,  however, 
linguistic  differences  continued  to  outweigh  unifying  factors  until 
a  nationalist  movement  emerged  to  question  Spanish  rule  in  the 
nineteenth  century. 

Philippine  national  identity  emerged  as  a  blend  of  diverse  eth- 
nic and  linguistic  groups,  when  lowland  Christians,  called  indios 
by  the  Spaniards,  began  referring  to  themselves  as  "Filipinos," 
excluding  Muslims,  upland  tribal  groups,  and  ethnic  Chinese  who 
had  not  been  assimilated  by  intermarriage  and  did  not  fit  the 
category.  In  the  very  process  of  defining  a  national  identity,  the 
majority  was  also  drawing  attention  to  a  basic  societal  cleavage 
among  the  groups  (see  The  Development  of  a  National  Conscious- 
ness, ch.  1).  In  revolting  against  Spanish  rule  and,  later,  fighting 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


United  States  troops,  the  indigenous  people  became  increasingly 
conscious  of  a  national  unity  transcending  local  and  regional  iden- 
tities. A  public  school  system  that  brought  at  least  elementary-level 
education  to  all  but  the  most  remote  barrios  and  sitios  (small  clusters 
of  homes)  during  the  early  twentieth  century  also  served  to  dilute 
religious,  ethnic,  and  linguistic  or  regional  differences,  as  did  im- 
provements in  transportation  and  communication  systems  and  the 
spread  of  English  as  a  lingua  franca  (see  The  First  Phase  of  Ameri- 
can Rule,  1898-1935,  ch.  1). 

Language  Diversity  and  Uniformity 

Some  eleven  languages  and  eighty-seven  dialects  were  spoken 
in  the  Philippines  in  the  late  1980s.  Eight  of  these — Tagalog,  Cebu- 
ano,  Ilocano,  Hiligaynon,  Bicolano,  Waray-Waray,  Pampangan, 
and  Pangasinan — were  native  tongues  for  about  90  percent  of  the 
population.  All  eight  belong  to  the  Malay-Polynesian  language 
family  and  are  related  to  Indonesian  and  Malay,  but  no  two  are 
mutually  comprehensible.  Each  has  a  number  of  dialects  and  all 
have  impressive  literary  traditions,  especially  Tagalog,  Cebuano, 
and  Ilocano.  Some  of  the  languages  have  closer  affinity  than  others. 
It  is  easier  for  Ilocanos  and  Pangasinans  to  learn  each  other's 
language  than  to  learn  any  of  the  other  six.  Likewise,  speakers  of 
major  Visayan  Island  languages — Cebuano,  Ilongo,  and  Waray- 
Waray — find  it  easier  to  communicate  with  each  other  than  with 
Tagalogs,  Ilocanos,  or  others. 

Language  divisions  were  nowhere  more  apparent  than  in  the  con- 
tinuing public  debate  over  national  language.  The  government  in 
1974  initiated  a  policy  of  gradually  phasing  out  English  in  schools, 
business,  and  government,  and  replacing  it  with  Pilipino,  based 
on  the  Tagalog  language  of  central  and  southern  Luzon.  Pilipino 
had  spread  throughout  the  nation,  the  mass  media,  and  the  school 
system.  In  1990  President  Corazon  Aquino  ordered  that  all  govern- 
ment offices  use  Pilipino  as  a  medium  of  communication,  and  200 
college  executives  asked  that  Pilipino  be  the  main  medium  of  col- 
lege instruction  rather  than  English.  Government  and  educational 
leaders  hoped  that  Pilipino  would  be  in  general  use  throughout  the 
archipelago  by  the  end  of  the  century.  By  that  time,  it  might  have 
enough  grass-roots  support  in  non-Tagalog- speaking  regions  to  be- 
come a  national  language.  In  the  early  1990s,  however,  Filipinos  had 
not  accepted  a  national  language  at  the  expense  of  their  regional  lan- 
guages. Nor  was  there  complete  agreement  that  regional  languages 
should  be  subordinated  to  a  national  language  based  on  Tagalog. 

The  role  of  English  was  also  debated.  Some  argued  that  English 
was  essential  to  economic  progress  because  it  opened  the  Philippines 


77 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  3.  Principal  Ethno linguistic  Groups,  1991 


"8 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Classification  of 
Cultural-Linguistic  Groups 


MAJOR  GROUPS  INCLUDED  ON  MAP: 

llocano  llongo 

Pangasinan  Waray-Waray 

Pampangan  Cebuano 

Tagalog  Boholano 
Bicolano 


MUSLIM  GROUPS: 


A  Maguindanao 

B  Maranao 

C  Tausug 

D  Samal 

E  Bajau 


F  Yakan 

G  llanon 

H  Sangir 

I  Melabugnan 

J  Jama  Mapun 


UPLAND  TRIBAL  GROUPS  -  LUZON: 


1  Ifugao 

2  Bontoc 

3  Kankanay 

4  Ibaloi 

5  Kalinga 


6  Tinguian 

7  Isneg 

8  Gaddang 

9  llongot 

10  Negrito 


UPLAND  TRIBAL  GROUPS  -  MINDORO  AND  MINDANAO: 


11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 


Mangyan 

Manobo 

Bukidnon 

Bagobo 

Mandaya 

Ata 

Mansaka 


18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 


Subanun 

Mamanua 

Bila-an 

Tiruray 

T-Boli 

Tasaday 


79 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


to  communication  with  the  rest  of  the  world,  facilitated  foreign  com- 
merce, and  made  Filipinos  desirable  employees  for  international 
firms  both  in  the  Philippines  and  abroad.  Despite  census  reports 
that  nearly  65  percent  of  the  populace  claimed  some  understand- 
ing of  English,  as  of  the  early  1990s  competence  in  English  ap- 
peared to  have  deteriorated.  Groups  also  debated  whether 
"Filipinization"  and  the  resulting  shifting  of  the  language  toward 
"Taglish"  (a  mixture  of  Tagalog  and  English)  had  made  the  lan- 
guage less  useful  as  a  medium  of  international  communication. 
Major  newspapers  in  the  early  1990s,  however,  were  in  English, 
English  language  movies  were  popular,  and  English  was  often  used 
in  advertisements. 

Successful  Filipinos  were  likely  to  continue  to  be  competent  in 
Pilipino  and  English.  Speakers  of  another  regional  language  would 
most  likely  continue  to  use  that  language  at  home,  Pilipino  in  or- 
dinary conversation  in  the  cities,  and  English  for  commerce,  govern- 
ment, and  international  relations.  Both  Pilipino,  gaining  use  in 
the  media,  and  English  continued  in  the  1990s  to  be  the  languages 
of  education. 

The  Lowland  Christian  Population 

Although  lowland  Christians  maintained  stylistic  differences  in 
dress  until  the  twentieth  century  and  had  always  taken  pride  in 
their  unique  culinary  specialties,  they  continued  to  be  a  remark- 
ably homogeneous  core  population  of  the  Philippines.  In  1990 
lowland  Christians,  also  known  as  Christian  Malays,  made  up  91.5 
percent  of  the  population  and  were  divided  into  several  regional 
groups.  Because  of  their  regional  base  in  Metro  Manila  and  adja- 
cent provinces  to  the  north,  east,  and  south,  Tagalogs  tended  to 
be  more  visible  than  other  groups.  Cebuanos,  whose  language  was 
the  principal  one  in  the  Visayan  Island  area,  inhabited  Cebu,  Bo- 
hol,  Siquijor,  Negros  Oriental,  Leyte,  and  Southern  Leyte  prov- 
inces, and  parts  of  Mindanao.  Ilocanos  had  a  reputation  for  being 
ready  migrants,  leaving  their  rocky  northern  Luzon  homeland  not 
just  for  more  fertile  parts  of  the  archipelago  but  for  the  United  States 
as  well.  The  home  region  of  the  Ilongos  (speakers  of  Hiligaynon) 
included  most  of  Panay,  Negros  Occidental  Province,  and  the 
southern  end  of  Mindoro.  Their  migration  in  large  numbers  to 
the  Cotabato  and  Lanao  areas  of  Mindanao  led  to  intense  fric- 
tion between  them  and  the  local  Muslim  inhabitants  and  the  out- 
break of  fighting  between  the  two  groups  in  the  1970s.  The 
homeland  of  the  Bicolanos,  or  "Bicolandia,"  was  the  southeastern 
portion  of  Luzon  together  with  the  islands  of  Catanduanes,  Bu- 
rias,  and  Ticao,  and  adjacent  parts  of  Masbate.  The  Waray-Warays 


80 


Child  playing  on  flooded  Central  Luzon  road 
Courtesy  Patricia  V.  Dolan 

lived  mostly  in  eastern  Leyte  and  Samar  in  the  Eastern  Visayas. 
The  Pampangan  homeland  was  the  Central  Luzon  Plain  and  espe- 
cially Pampanga  Province.  Speakers  of  Pangasinan  were  especially 
numerous  in  the  Lingayen  Gulf  region  of  Luzon,  but  they  also  had 
spread  to  the  Central  Luzon  Plain  where  they  were  interspersed 
with  Tagalogs,  Ilocanos,  and  Pampangans. 

As  migrants  to  the  city,  these  lowland  Christians  clustered 
together  in  neighborhoods  made  up  primarily  of  people  from  their 
own  regions.  Multilingualism  generally  characterized  these  neigh- 
borhoods; the  language  of  the  local  area  was  used,  as  a  rule,  for 
communicating  with  those  native  to  the  area,  and  English  or  Pilipino 
was  used  as  a  supplement.  Migrants  to  cities  and  to  agricultural 
frontiers  were  remarkably  ready  and  willing  to  learn  the  language 
of  their  new  location  while  retaining  use  of  their  mother  tongue 
within  the  home. 

Muslim  Filipinos 

Muslims,  about  5  percent  of  the  total  population,  were  the  most 
significant  minority  in  the  Philippines.  Although  undifferentiated 
racially  from  other  Filipinos,  in  the  1990s  they  remained  outside 
the  mainstream  of  national  life,  set  apart  by  their  religion  and  way 


81 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


of  life.  In  the  1970s,  in  reaction  to  consolidation  of  central  govern- 
ment power  under  martial  law,  which  began  in  1972,  the  Muslim 
Filipino,  or  Moro  (see  Glossary),  population  increasingly  identi- 
fied with  the  worldwide  Islamic  community,  particularly  in  Malay- 
sia, Indonesia,  Libya,  and  Middle  Eastern  countries.  Longstanding 
economic  grievances  stemming  from  years  of  governmental  neglect 
and  from  resentment  of  popular  prejudice  against  them  contributed 
to  the  roots  of  Muslim  insurgency  (see  The  Moros,  ch.  5). 

Moros  were  confined  almost  entirely  to  the  southern  part  of  the 
country — southern  and  western  Mindanao,  southern  Palawan,  and 
the  Sulu  Archipelago.  Ten  subgroups  could  be  identified  on  the 
basis  of  language.  Three  of  these  groups  made  up  the  great  majority 
of  Moros.  They  were  the  Maguindanaos  of  North  Cotabato,  Sul- 
tan Kudarat,  and  Maguindanao  provinces;  the  Maranaos  of  the 
two  Lanao  provinces;  and  the  Tausugs,  principally  from  Jolo  Island. 
Smaller  groups  were  the  Samals  and  Bajaus,  principally  of  the  Sulu 
Archipelago;  the  Yakans  of  Zamboanga  del  Sur  Province;  the  Ila- 
nons  and  Sangirs  of  Southern  Mindanao  Region;  the  Melabug- 
nans  of  southern  Palawan;  and  the  Jama  Mapuns  of  the  tiny 
Cagayan  Islands. 

Muslim  Filipinos  traditionally  had  not  been  a  closely  knit  or  even 
allied  group.  They  were  fiercely  proud  of  their  separate  identities, 
and  conflict  between  them  had  been  endemic  for  centuries.  In  ad- 
dition to  being  divided  by  different  languages  and  political  struc- 
tures, the  separate  groups  also  differed  in  their  degree  of  Islamic 
orthodoxy.  For  example,  the  Tausugs,  the  first  group  to  adopt  Is- 
lam, criticized  the  more  recently  Islamicized  Yakan  and  Bajau  peo- 
ples for  being  less  zealous  in  observing  Islamic  tenets  and  practices. 
Internal  differences  among  Moros  in  the  1980s,  however,  were  out- 
weighed by  commonalities  of  historical  experience  vis-a-vis  non- 
Muslims  and  by  shared  cultural,  social,  and  legal  traditions. 

The  traditional  structure  of  Moro  society  focused  on  a  sultan 
who  was  both  a  secular  and  a  religious  leader  and  whose  authority 
was  sanctioned  by  the  Quran.  The  datu  were  communal  leaders 
who  measured  power  not  by  their  holdings  in  landed  wealth  but 
by  the  numbers  of  their  followers.  In  return  for  tribute  and  labor, 
the  datu  provided  aid  in  emergencies  and  advocacy  in  disputes  with 
followers  of  another  chief.  Thus,  through  his  agama  (court — actually 
an  informal  dispute-settling  session),  a  datu  became  basic  to  the 
smooth  function  of  Moro  society.  He  was  a  powerful  authority 
figure  who  might  have  as  many  as  four  wives  and  who  might  en- 
slave other  Muslims  in  raids  on  their  villages  or  in  debt  bondage. 
He  might  also  demand  revenge  (maratabat)  for  the  death  of  a  fol- 
lower or  upon  injury  to  his  pride  or  honor. 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  datu  continued  to  play  a  central  role  in  Moro  society  in  the 
1980s.  In  many  parts  of  Muslim  Mindanao,  they  still  administered 
the  sharia  (sacred  Islamic  law)  through  the  agama.  They  could  no 
longer  expand  their  circle  of  followers  by  raiding  other  villages, 
but  they  achieved  the  same  end  by  accumulating  wealth  and  then 
using  it  to  provide  aid,  employment,  and  protection  for  less  for- 
tunate neighbors.  Datu  support  was  essential  for  government  pro- 
grams in  a  Muslim  barangay  (see  Glossary).  Although  a  datu  in 
modern  times  rarely  had  more  than  one  wife,  polygamy  was  per- 
mitted so  long  as  his  wealth  was  sufficient  to  provide  for  more  than 
one.  Moro  society  was  still  basically  hierarchical  and  familial,  at 
least  in  rural  areas. 

The  national  government  policies  instituted  immediately  after 
independence  in  1946  abolished  the  Bureau  for  Non-Christian 
Tribes  used  by  the  United  States  to  deal  with  minorities  and  en- 
couraged migration  of  Filipinos  from  densely  settled  areas  such  as 
Central  Luzon  to  the  "open"  frontier  of  Mindanao.  By  the  1950s, 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  Bongos,  Ilocanos,  Tagalogs,  and  others 
were  settling  in  North  Cotabato  and  South  Cotabato  and  Lanao 
del  Norte  and  Lanao  del  Sur  provinces,  where  their  influx  inflamed 
Moro  hostility.  The  crux  of  the  problem  lay  in  land  disputes.  Chris- 
tian migrants  to  the  Cotabatos,  for  example,  complained  that  they 
bought  land  from  one  Muslim  only  to  have  his  relatives  refuse  to 
recognize  the  sale  and  demand  more  money.  Muslims  claimed  that 
Christians  would  title  land  through  government  agencies  unknown 
to  Muslim  residents,  for  whom  land  titling  was  a  new  institution. 
Distrust  and  resentment  spread  to  the  public  school  system,  regard- 
ed by  most  Muslims  as  an  agency  for  the  propagation  of  Christian 
teachings.  By  1970,  a  terrorist  organization  of  Christians  called 
the  Ilagas  (Rats)  began  operating  in  the  Cotabatos,  and  Muslim 
armed  bands,  called  Blackshirts,  appeared  in  response.  The  same 
thing  happened  in  the  Lanaos,  where  the  Muslim  Barracudas  be- 
gan fighting  the  Ilagas.  Philippine  army  troops  sent  in  to  restore 
peace  and  order  were  accused  by  Muslims  of  siding  with  the  Chris- 
tians. When  martial  law  was  declared  in  1972,  Muslim  Mindanao 
was  in  turmoil  (see  Marcos  and  the  Road  to  Martial  Law,  1965-72, 
ch.  1). 

The  Philippine  government  discovered  shortly  after  independence 
that  there  was  a  need  for  some  kind  of  specialized  agency  to  deal 
with  the  Muslim  minority  and  so  set  up  the  Commission  for  Na- 
tional Integration  in  1957,  which  was  later  replaced  by  the  Office 
of  Muslim  Affairs  and  Cultural  Communities.  Filipino  nationalists 
envisioned  a  united  country  in  which  Christians  and  Muslims  would 


83 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

be  offered  economic  advantages  and  the  Muslims  would  be  assimi- 
lated into  the  dominant  culture.  They  would  simply  be  Filipinos 
who  had  their  own  mode  of  worship  and  who  refused  to  eat  pork. 
This  vision,  less  than  ideal  to  many  Christians,  was  generally  re- 
jected by  Muslims  who  feared  that  it  was  a  euphemistic  equiva- 
lent of  assimilation.  Concessions  were  made  to  Muslim  religion 
and  customs.  Muslims  were  exempted  from  Philippine  laws  pro- 
hibiting polygamy  and  divorce,  and  in  1977  the  government  at- 
tempted to  codify  Muslim  law  on  personal  relationships  and  to 
harmonize  Muslim  customary  law  with  Philippine  law.  A  signifi- 
cant break  from  past  practice  was  the  1990  establishment  of  the 
Autonomous  Region  in  Muslim  Mindanao,  which  gave  Muslims 
in  the  region  control  over  some  aspects  of  government,  but  not 
over  national  security  and  foreign  affairs  (see  Local  Government, 
ch.  4). 

There  were  social  factors  in  the  early  1990s  that  militated  against 
the  cultural  autonomy  sought  by  Muslim  leaders.  Industrial  de- 
velopment and  increased  migration  outside  the  region  brought  new 
educational  demands  and  new  roles  for  women.  These  changes  in 
turn  led  to  greater  assimilation  and,  in  some  cases,  even  intermar- 
riage. Nevertheless,  Muslims  and  Christians  generally  remained 
distinct  societies  often  at  odds  with  one  another. 

Upland  Tribal  Groups 

Another  minority,  the  more  than  100  upland  tribal  groups,  in 
1990  constituted  approximately  3  percent  of  the  population.  As 
lowland  Filipinos,  both  Muslim  and  Christian,  grew  in  numbers 
and  expanded  into  the  interiors  of  Luzon,  Mindoro,  Mindanao, 
and  other  islands,  they  isolated  upland  tribal  communities  in  pock- 
ets. Over  the  centuries,  these  isolated  tribes  developed  their  own 
special  identities.  The  folk  art  of  these  groups  was,  in  a  sense,  the 
last  remnant  of  an  indigenous  tradition  that  flourished  everywhere 
before  Islamic  and  Spanish  contact. 

Technically,  the  upland  tribal  groups  were  a  blend  in  ethnic  origin 
like  other  Filipinos,  although  they  did  not,  as  a  rule,  have  as  much 
contact  with  the  outside  world.  They  displayed  great  variety  in  so- 
cial organization,  cultural  expression,  and  artistic  skills  that  showed 
a  high  degree  of  creativity,  usually  employed  to  embellish  utilitar- 
ian objects,  such  as  bowls,  baskets,  clothing,  weapons,  and  even 
spoons.  Technologically,  these  groups  ranged  from  the  highly 
sophisticated  Bontocs  and  Ifugaos,  who  engineered  the  extraordi- 
nary rice  terraces,  to  more  primitive  groups.  They  also  covered 
a  wide  spectrum  in  terms  of  their  integration  and  acculturation  with 
lowland  Christian  Filipinos.  Some,  like  the  Bukidnons  of  Mindanao, 


84 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


had  intermarried  with  lowlanders  for  almost  a  century,  whereas 
others,  like  the  Kalingas  on  Luzon,  remained  more  isolated  from 
lowland  influences. 

There  were  ten  principal  cultural  groups  living  in  the  Cordillera 
Central  of  Luzon  in  1990.  The  name  Igorot,  the  Tagalog  word 
for  mountaineer,  was  often  used  with  reference  to  all  groups.  At 
one  time  it  was  employed  by  lowland  Filipinos  in  a  pejorative  sense, 
but  in  recent  years  it  came  to  be  used  with  pride  by  youths  in  the 
mountains  as  a  positive  expression  of  their  separate  ethnic  identi- 
ty vis-a-vis  lowlanders.  Of  the  ten  groups,  the  Ifugaos  of  Ifugao,, 
Province,  the  Bontocs  of  Mountain  and  Kalinga-Apayao  provinces, 
and  the  Kankanays  and  Ibalois  of  Benguet  Province  were  all  wet- 
rice  farmers  who  worked  the  elaborate  rice  terraces  they  had  con- 
structed over  the  centuries.  The  Kankanays  and  Ibalois  were  the 
most  influenced  by  Spanish  and  American  colonialism  and  lowland 
Filipino  culture  because  of  the  extensive  gold  mines  in  Benguet, 
the  proximity  of  Baguio,  good  roads  and  schools,  and  a  consumer 
industry  in  search  of  folk  art.  Other  mountain  peoples  of  Luzon 
were  the  Kalingas  of  Kalinga-Apayao  Province  and  the  Tingui- 
ans  of  Abra  Province,  who  employed  both  wet-rice  and  dry-rice 
growing  techniques.  The  Isnegs  of  northern  Kalinga-Apayao 
Province,  the  Gaddangs  of  the  border  between  Kalinga-Apayao 
and  Isabela  provinces,  and  the  Uongots  of  Nueva  Vizcaya  Province 
all  practiced  shifting  cultivation.  Negritos  completed  the  picture 
for  Luzon.  Although  Negritos  had  formerly  dominated  the  high- 
lands, by  the  early  1980s  they  were  reduced  to  small  groups  living 
in  widely  scattered  locations,  primarily  along  the  eastern  ranges 
of  the  mountains. 

South  of  Luzon,  upland  tribal  groups  were  concentrated  on  Min- 
danao, although  there  was  an  important  population  of  mountain 
peoples  with  the  generic  name  Mangyan  living  on  Mindoro.  Among 
the  most  important  groups  on  Mindanao  were  the  Manobos  (a 
general  name  for  many  tribal  groups  in  southern  Bukidnon  and 
Agusan  del  Sur  provinces);  the  Bukidnons  of  Bukidnon  Province; 
the  Bagobos,  Mandayas,  Atas,  and  Mansakas,  who  inhabited 
mountains  bordering  the  Davao  Gulf;  the  Subanuns  of  upland  areas 
in  the  Zamboanga  provinces;  the  Mamanuas  of  the  Agusan-Surigao 
border  region;  and  the  Bila-ans,  Tirurays,  and  T-Bolis  of  the  area 
of  the  Cotabato  provinces.  Tribal  groups  on  Luzon  were  widely 
known  for  their  carved  wooden  figures,  baskets,  and  weaving;  Min- 
danao tribes  were  renowned  for  their  elaborate  embroidery,  ap- 
plique, and  bead  work. 

The  Office  of  Muslim  Affairs  and  Cultural  Communities  suc- 
ceeded in  establishing  a  number  of  protected  reservations  for  tribal 


85 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


groups.  Residents  were  expected  to  speak  their  tribal  language, 
dress  in  their  traditional  tribal  clothing,  live  in  houses  constructed 
of  natural  materials  using  traditional  architectural  designs,  and 
celebrate  their  traditional  ceremonies  of  propitiation  of  spirits  be- 
lieved to  be  inhabiting  their  environment.  They  also  were  en- 
couraged to  reestablish  their  traditional  authority  structure,  in 
which,  as  in  Moro  society,  tribal  datu  were  the  key  figures.  These 
men,  chosen  on  the  basis  of  their  bravery  and  their  ability  to  settle 
disputes,  were  usually,  but  not  always,  the  sons  of  former  datu.  Often 
they  were  also  the  ones  who  remembered  the  ancient  oral  epics 
of  their  people.  The  datu  sang  these  epics  to  reawaken  in  tribal  youth 
an  appreciation  for  the  unique  and  semisacred  history  of  the  tribal 
group. 

Contact  between  primitive  and  modern  groups  usually  resulted 
in  weakening  or  destroying  tribal  culture  without  assimilating  the 
tribal  groups  into  modern  society.  It  seemed  doubtful  that  the  shift 
of  government  policy  from  assimilation  to  cultural  pluralism  could 
reverse  the  process.  James  Eder,  an  anthropologist  who  has  studied 
several  Filipino  tribes,  maintains  that  even  the  protection  of  tribal 
land  rights  tends  to  lead  to  the  abandonment  of  traditional  culture 
because  land  security  makes  it  easier  for  tribal  members  to  adopt 
the  economic  practices  of  the  larger  society  and  facilitates  mar- 
riage with  outsiders.  Government  bureaus  could  not  preserve  tribes 
as  social  museum  exhibits,  but  with  the  aid  of  various  private  or- 
ganizations, they  hoped  to  be  able  to  help  the  tribes  adapt  to  modern 
society  without  completely  losing  their  ethnic  identity. 

The  Chinese 

In  1990  the  approximately  600,000  ethnic  Chinese  made  up  less 
than  1  percent  of  the  population.  Because  Manila  is  close  to  Tai- 
wan and  the  mainland  of  China,  the  Philippines  has  for  centuries 
attracted  both  Chinese  traders  and  semipermanent  residents.  The 
Chinese  have  been  viewed  as  a  source  of  cheap  labor  and  of  capi- 
tal and  business  enterprise.  Government  policy  toward  the  Chinese 
has  been  inconsistent.  Spanish,  American,  and  Filipino  regimes 
alternately  welcomed  and  restricted  the  entry  and  activities  of  the 
Chinese  (see  Chinese  and  Chinese  Mestizos,  ch.  1).  Most  early 
Chinese  migrants  were  male,  resulting  in  a  sex  ratio,  at  one  time, 
as  high  as  113  to  1 .  In  the  1990s,  however,  the  ratio  was  more  nearly 
equal,  reflecting  a  population  based  more  on  natural  increase  than 
on  immigration. 

There  has  been  a  good  deal  of  intermarriage  between  the  Chinese 
and  lowland  Christians,  although  the  exact  amount  is  impossible 


86 


Chinese  Buddhist  cemetery  on  the  outskirts  of  Manila 
Courtesy  Patricia  V.  Dolan 

to  determine.  Although  many  prominent  Filipinos,  including  Jose 
Rizal,  President  Corazon  Aquino,  and  Cardinal  Jaime  Sin  have 
mixed  Chinese  ancestry,  intermarriage  has  not  necessarily  led  to 
ethnic  understanding.  Mestizos  (see  Glossary),  over  a  period  of 
years,  tended  to  deprecate  their  Chinese  ancestry  and  to  identify 
as  Filipino.  The  Chinese  tended  to  regard  their  culture  as  superior 
and  sought  to  maintain  it  by  establishing  a  separate  school  system 
in  which  about  half  the  curriculum  consisted  of  Chinese  literature, 
history,  and  language. 

Intermarriage  and  changing  governmental  policies  made  it 
difficult  to  define  who  was  Chinese.  The  popular  usage  of 
"Chinese"  included  Chinese  aliens,  both  legal  and  illegal,  as  well 
as  those  of  Chinese  ancestry  who  had  become  citizens.  "Ethnic 
Chinese"  was  another  term  often  used  but  hard  to  define.  Mesti- 
zos could  be  considered  either  Chinese  or  Filipino,  depending  on 
the  group  with  which  they  associated  to  the  greatest  extent. 

Research  indicates  that  Chinese  were  one  of  the  least  accepted 
ethnic  groups.  The  common  Filipino  perception  of  the  Chinese  was 
of  rich  businessmen  backed  by  Chinese  cartels  who  stamped  out 
competition  from  other  groups.  There  was,  however,  a  sizable 
Chinese  working  class  in  the  Philippines,  and  there  was  a  sharp 
gap  between  rich  and  poor  Chinese. 


87 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Social  Values  and  Organization 

The  great  majority  of  the  Philippine  population  is  bound  together 
by  common  values  and  a  common  religion.  Philippine  society  is 
characterized  by  many  positive  traits.  Among  these  are  strong  re- 
ligious faith,  respect  for  authority,  and  high  regard  for  amor proprio 
(self-esteem)  and  smooth  interpersonal  relationships.  Philippine 
respect  for  authority  is  based  on  the  special  honor  paid  to  elder 
members  of  the  family  and,  by  extension,  to  anyone  in  a  position 
of  power.  This  characteristic  is  generally  conducive  to  the  smooth 
running  of  society,  although,  when  taken  to  extreme,  it  can  de- 
velop into  an  authoritarianism  that  discourages  independent  judg- 
ment and  individual  responsibility  and  initiative.  Filipinos  are 
sensitive  to  attacks  on  their  own  self-esteem  and  cultivate  a  sensi- 
tivity to  the  self-esteem  of  others  as  well.  Anything  that  might  hurt 
another's  self-esteem  is  to  be  avoided  or  else  one  risks  terminating 
the  relationship.  One  who  is  insensitive  to  others  is  said  to  lack 
a  sense  of  shame  and  embarrassment,  the  principal  sanction  against 
improper  behavior.  This  great  concern  for  self-esteem  helps  to  main- 
tain harmony  in  society  and  within  one's  particular  circle,  but  it  also 
can  give  rise  to  clannishness  and  a  willingness  to  sacrifice  personal 
integrity  to  remain  in  the  good  graces  of  the  group.  Strong  per- 
sonal faith  enables  Filipinos  to  face  great  difficulties  and  unpredict- 
able risks  in  the  assurance  that  "God  will  take  care  of  things." 
But,  if  allowed  to  deteriorate  into  fatalism,  even  this  admirable 
characteristic  can  hinder  initiative  and  stand  in  the  way  of  progress. 

Social  organization  generally  follows  a  single  pattern,  although 
variations  do  occur,  reflecting  the  influence  of  local  traditions. 
Among  lowland  Christian  Filipinos,  social  organization  continues 
to  be  marked  primarily  by  personal  alliance  systems,  that  is,  group- 
ings composed  of  kin  (real  and  ritual),  grantors  and  recipients  of 
favors,  friends,  and  partners  in  commercial  exchanges. 

Philippine  personal  alliance  systems  are  anchored  by  kinship, 
beginning  with  the  nuclear  family.  A  Filipino's  loyalty  goes  first 
to  the  immediate  family;  identity  is  deeply  embedded  in  the  web 
of  kinship.  It  is  normative  that  one  owes  support,  loyalty,  and  trust 
to  one's  close  kin  and,  because  kinship  is  structured  bilaterally  with 
affinal  as  well  as  consanguineal  relatives,  one's  kin  can  include  quite 
a  large  number  of  people.  Still,  beyond  the  nuclear  family,  Filipi- 
nos do  not  assume  the  same  degree  of  support,  loyalty,  and  trust 
that  they  assume  for  immediate  family  members  for  whom  loyalty 
is  nothing  less  than  a  social  imperative.  With  respect  to  kin  be- 
yond this  nuclear  family,  closeness  in  relationship  depends  very 
much  on  physical  proximity. 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Bonds  of  ritual  kinship,  sealed  on  any  of  three  ceremonial 
occasions — baptism,  confirmation,  and  marriage — intensify  and 
extend  personal  alliances.  This  mutual  kinship  system,  known  as 
compadrazgo,  meaning  godparenthood  or  sponsorship,  dates  back 
at  least  to  the  introduction  of  Christianity  and  perhaps  earlier.  It 
is  a  primary  method  of  extending  the  group  from  which  one  can 
expect  help  in  the  way  of  favors,  such  as  jobs,  loans,  or  just  simple 
gifts  on  special  occasions.  But  in  asking  a  friend  to  become  god- 
parent to  a  child,  a  Filipino  is  also  asking  that  person  to  become 
a  closer  friend.  Thus  it  is  common  to  ask  acquaintances  who  are 
of  higher  economic  or  social  status  than  oneself  to  be  sponsors.  Such 
ritual  kinship  cannot  be  depended  on  in  moments  of  crisis  to  the 
same  extent  as  real  kinship,  but  it  still  functions  for  small  and  regular 
acts  of  support  such  as  gift  giving. 

A  dyadic  bond — between  two  individuals — may  be  formed  based 
on  the  concept  of  utang  na  bob.  Although  it  is  expected  that  the  debtor 
will  attempt  repayment,  it  is  widely  recognized  that  the  debt  (as 
in  one's  obligation  to  a  parent)  can  never  be  fully  repaid  and  the 
obligation  can  last  for  generations.  Saving  another's  life,  provid- 
ing employment,  or  making  it  possible  for  another  to  become  edu- 
cated are  "gifts"  that  incur  utang  na  loob.  Moreover,  such  gifts 
initiate  a  long-term  reciprocal  interdependency  in  which  the  grant- 
or of  the  favor  can  expect  help  from  the  debtor  whenever  the  need 
arises  and  the  debtor  can,  in  turn,  ask  other  favors.  Such  recipro- 
cal personal  alliances  have  had  obvious  implications  for  the  socie- 
ty in  general  and  the  political  system  in  particular.  In  1990  educated 
Filipinos  were  less  likely  to  feel  obligated  to  extend  help  (thereby 
not  initiating  an  utang  na  loob  relationship)  than  were  rural  dwellers 
among  whom  traditional  values  remained  strong.  Some  observers 
believed  that  as  Philippine  society  became  more  modernized  and 
urban  in  orientation,  utang  na  loob  would  become  less  important 
in  the  political  and  social  systems. 

In  the  commercial  context,  suki  relationships  (market-exchange 
partnerships)  may  develop  between  two  people  who  agree  to  be- 
come regular  customer  and  supplier.  In  the  marketplace,  Filipi- 
nos will  regularly  buy  from  certain  specific  suppliers  who  will  give 
them,  in  return,  reduced  prices,  good  quality,  and,  often,  credit. 
Suki  relationships  often  apply  in  other  contexts  as  well.  For  exam- 
ple, regular  patrons  of  restaurants  and  small  neighborhood  retail 
shops  and  tailoring  shops  often  receive  special  treatment  in  return 
for  their  patronage.  Suki  does  more  than  help  develop  economic 
exchange  relationships.  Because  trust  is  such  a  vital  aspect,  it  cre- 
ates a  platform  for  personal  relationships  that  can  blossom  into 
genuine  friendship  between  individuals. 


89 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Patron-client  bonds  also  are  very  much  a  part  of  prescribed  pat- 
terns of  appropriate  behavior.  These  may  be  formed  between  tenant 
farmers  and  their  landlords  or  between  any  patron  who  provides 
resources  and  influence  in  return  for  the  client's  personal  services 
and  general  support.  The  reciprocal  arrangement  typically  involves 
the  patron  giving  a  means  of  earning  a  living  or  of  help,  protec- 
tion, and  influence  and  the  client  giving  labor  and  personal  favors, 
ranging  from  household  tasks  to  political  support.  These  relation- 
ships often  evolve  into  ritual  kinship  ties,  as  the  tenant  or  worker 
may  ask  the  landlord  to  be  a  child's  godparent.  Similarly,  when 
favors  are  extended,  they  tend  to  bind  patron  and  client  together 
in  a  network  of  mutual  obligation  or  a  long-term  interdependency. 

Filipinos  also  extend  the  circle  of  social  alliances  with  friendship. 
Friendship  often  is  placed  on  a  par  with  kinship  as  the  most  cen- 
tral of  Filipino  relationships.  Certainly  ties  among  those  within  one's 
group  of  friends  are  an  important  factor  in  the  development  of  per- 
sonal alliance  systems.  Here,  as  in  other  categories,  a  willingness 
to  help  one  another  provides  the  prime  rationale  for  the  relationship. 

These  categories — real  kinship,  ritual  kinship,  utang  na  loob  rela- 
tionships, ^^'relationships,  patron-client  bonds,  and  friendship — 
are  not  exclusive.  They  are  interrelated  components  of  the  Fil- 
ipino's personal  alliance  system.  Thus  two  individuals  may  be 
cousins,  become  friends,  and  then  cement  their  friendship  through 
godparenthood.  Each  of  their  social  networks  will  typically  include 
kin  (near  and  far,  affinal  and  consanguineal),  ritual  kin,  one  or 
two  patron-client  relationships,  one  or  more  other  close  friends  (and 
a  larger  number  of  social  friends),  and  a  dozen  or  more  market- 
exchange  partners.  Utang  na  loob  may  infuse  any  or  all  of  these  rela- 
tionships. One's  network  of  social  allies  may  include  some  eighty 
or  more  people,  integrated  and  interwoven  into  a  personal  alliance 
system. 

In  1990  personal  alliance  systems  extended  far  beyond  the  local 
arena,  becoming  pyramidal  structures  going  all  the  way  to  Ma- 
nila, where  members  of  the  national  political  elite  represented  the 
tops  of  numerous  personal  alliance  pyramids.  The  Philippine  elite 
was  composed  of  weathly  landlords,  financiers,  businesspeople,  high 
military  officers,  and  national  political  figures.  Made  up  of  a  few 
families  often  descended  from  the  ilustrados  (see  Glossary),  or  en- 
lightened ones,  of  the  Spanish  colonial  period,  the  elite  controlled 
a  high  percentage  of  the  nations' s  wealth.  The  lavish  life-styles  of 
this  group  usually  included  owning  at  least  two  homes  (one  in  Ma- 
nila and  one  in  the  province  where  the  family  originated),  patroniz- 
ing expensive  shops  and  restaurants,  belonging  to  exclusive  clubs, 
and  having  a  retinue  of  servants.  Many  counted  among  their 


90 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


social  acquaintances  a  number  of  rich  and  influential  foreigners, 
especially  Americans,  Spaniards,  and  other  Europeans.  Their  chil- 
dren attended  exclusive  private  schools  in  Manila  and  were  often 
sent  abroad,  usually  to  the  United  States,  for  higher  education. 
In  addition,  by  1990  a  new  elite  of  businesspeople,  many  from  Hong 
Kong  and  Taiwan,  had  developed. 

In  the  cities,  there  existed  a  considerable  middle-class  group  con- 
sisting of  small  entrepreneurs,  civil  servants,  teachers,  merchants, 
small  property  owners,  and  clerks  whose  employment  was  relatively 
secure.  In  many  middle-class  families,  both  spouses  worked.  They 
tended  to  place  great  value  on  higher  education,  and  most  had  a 
college  degree.  They  also  shared  a  sense  of  common  identity  der- 
ived from  similar  educational  experiences,  facility  in  using  English, 
common  participation  in  service  clubs  such  as  the  Rotary,  and  simi- 
lar economic  standing. 

Different  income  groups  lived  in  different  neighborhoods  in  the 
cities  and  lacked  the  personal  contact  essential  to  the  patron-client 
relationship.  Probably  the  major  social  division  was  between  those 
who  had  a  regular  source  of  income  and  those  who  made  up  the 
informal  sector  of  the  economy.  The  latter  subsisted  by  salvaging 
material  from  garbage  dumps,  begging,  occasional  paid  labor,  and 
peddling.  Although  their  income  was  sometimes  as  high  as  those 
in  regular  jobs,  they  lacked  the  protection  of  labor  legislation  and 
had  no  claim  to  any  type  of  social  insurance  (see  Employment  and 
Labor  Relations;  Economic  Welfare,  ch.  3). 

Rural  Social  Patterns 

In  1990,  nearly  six  out  of  every  ten  Filipinos  lived  in  villages, 
or  barangays.  Each  barangay  consisted  of  a  number  of  sitios  (neigh- 
borhoods), clusters  of  households  that  were  the  basic  building  blocks 
of  society  above  the  family.  Each  sitio  comprised  15  to  30  house- 
holds, and  most  barangays  numbered  from  150  to  200  households. 
As  a  rule,  barangays  also  contained  an  elementary  school,  one  or 
two  small  retail  stores,  and  a  small  Roman  Catholic  chapel.  They 
were  combined  administratively  into  municipalities. 

In  the  larger  center,  one  could  find  a  much  more  substantial 
church  and  rectory  for  the  resident  priest,  other  non-Roman  Catho- 
lic churches,  a  number  of  retail  stores  and  the  weekly  marketplace, 
a  full  six-year  elementary  school  and  probably  a  high  school,  a  rice 
and  corn  mill,  a  pit  for  cockfights,  and  the  homes  of  most  landown- 
ers and  middle-class  teachers  and  professionals  living  in  the  munic- 
ipality. This  urban  concentration  was  not  only  the  administrative 
center  but  also  the  social,  economic,  educational,  and  recreational 
locus.  This  was  particularly  so  where  the  center  was  itself  a  full-scale 


91 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

town,  complete  with  restaurants,  cinemas,  banks,  specialty  stores, 
gas  stations,  repair  shops,  bowling  alleys,  a  rural  health  clinic,  and 
perhaps  a  hospital  and  hotel  or  two.  Television  sets  were  found 
in  most  homes  in  such  towns,  whereas  some  barangays  in  remote 
areas  did  not  even  have  electricity. 

In  the  rural  Philippines,  traditional  values  remained  the  rule. 
The  family  was  central  to  a  Filipino's  identity,  and  many  sitios  were 
composed  mainly  of  kin.  Kin  ties  formed  the  basis  for  most  friend- 
ships and  supranuclear  family  relationships.  Filipinos  continued 
to  feel  a  strong  obligation  to  help  their  neighbors — whether  in  grant- 
ing a  small  loan  or  providing  jobs  for  neighborhood  children,  or 
expecting  to  be  included  in  neighborhood  work  projects,  such  as 
rebuilding  or  reroofing  a  house  and  clearing  new  land.  The  recipient 
of  the  help  was  expected  to  provide  tools  and  food.  Membership 
in  the  cooperative  work  group  sometimes  continued  even  after  a 
member  left  the  neighborhood.  Likewise,  the  recipient's  siblings 
joined  the  group  even  if  they  lived  outside  the  sitio.  In  this  way, 
familial  and  residential  ties  were  intermixed. 

Before  World  War  II,  when  landlords  and  tenants  normally  lived 
in  close  proximity,  patron-client  relationships,  often  infused  with 
mutual  affection,  frequently  grew  out  of  close  residential  contact. 
In  the  early  1990s,  patron-client  reciprocal  ties  continued  to  charac- 
terize relations  between  tenants  and  those  landlords  who  remained 
in  barangays.  Beginning  with  World  War  II,  however,  landlords  left 
the  countryside  and  moved  into  the  larger  towns  and  cities  or  even 
to  one  of  the  huge  metropolitan  centers.  By  the  mid-1980s,  most 
large  landowners  had  moved  to  the  larger  cities,  although,  as  a  rule, 
they  also  maintained  a  residence  in  their  provincial  center.  Land- 
owners who  remained  in  the  municipality  itself  were  usually  school 
teachers,  lawyers,  and  small  entrepreneurs  who  were  neither  long- 
standing large  landowners  (hacenderos)  nor  owners  of  more  than  a 
few  hectares  of  farmland. 

In  the  urban  areas,  the  landowners  had  the  advantages  of  bet- 
ter education  facilities  and  more  convenient  access  to  banking  and 
business  opportunities.  This  elite  exodus  from  the  barangays,  how- 
ever, brought  erosion  of  landlord-tenant  and  patron-client  ties.  The 
exodus  of  the  wealthiest  families  also  caused  patronage  of  local  pro- 
grams and  charities  to  suffer. 

The  strength  of  dyadic  patterns  in  Philippine  life  probably  caused 
farmers  to  continue  to  seek  new  patron-client  relationships  within 
their  barangays,  or  municipalities.  Their  personal  alliance  systems 
continued  to  stress  the  vertical  dimension  more  than  the  horizon- 
tal. Likewise,  they  sought  noninstitutional  means  for  settling  dis- 
putes, rarely  going  to  court  except  as  a  last  resort.  Just  as  the  local 


92 


Typical  rural  Philippine  nipa  house,  constructed  of  locally 
available  bamboo  and  nipa-leaf  thatching 
Courtesy  Patricia  V.  Dolan 

landlord  used  to  be  the  arbiter  of  serious  disputes,  so  the  barangay 
head  could  be  called  on  to  perform  this  function. 

The  traditional  rural  village  was  an  isolated  settlement,  influenced 
by  a  set  of  values  that  discouraged  change.  It  relied,  to  a  great  ex- 
tent, on  subsistence  farming.  By  the  1980s,  land  reform  and  lease- 
holding  arrangements  had  somewhat  limited  the  role  of  the  landlords 
so  that  farmers  could  turn  to  government  credit  agencies  and  mer- 
chants as  sources  of  credit.  Even  the  categories  of  landlord  and 
tenant  changed  because  one  who  owned  land  might  also  rent  ad- 
ditional land  and  thus  become  both  a  landlord  and  a  tenant. 

In  many  barangays,  the  once  peaceful  atmosphere  of  the  commu- 
nity was  gone,  and  community  cohesion  was  further  complicated 
by  the  effects  of  the  New  People's  Army  (NPA)  insurgency  (see 
The  Communist  Insurgency,  ch.  5).  If  residents  aided  the  NPA, 
they  faced  punishment  from  government  troops.  Government 
troops  could  not  be  everywhere  at  all  times,  however,  and  when 
they  left,  those  who  aided  the  government  faced  vengeance  from 
the  NPA.  One  approach  that  the  government  took  was  to  organize 
the  villagers  into  armed  vigilante  groups.  Such  groups,  however, 
have  often  been  accused  of  extortion,  intimidation,  and  even  tor- 
ture (see  Civil-Military  Relations,  ch.  4). 


93 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Economic  organization  of  Philippine  farmers  has  been  largely 
ineffective.  This  fact  has  worked  to  the  disadvantage  of  all  of  the 
farmers,  especially  the  landless  farm  workers  who  were  neither  own- 
ers nor  tenants.  These  landless  farmers  remained  in  abject  poverty 
with  little  opportunity  to  better  their  lot  or  benefit  from  land  re- 
form or  welfare  programs. 

Even  in  the  1990s,  the  pace  of  life  was  slower  in  rural  than  in 
urban  areas.  Increased  communication  and  education  had  brought 
rural  and  urban  culture  closer  to  a  common  outlook,  however,  and 
the  trend  toward  scientific  agriculture  and  a  market  economy  had 
brought  major  changes  in  the  agricultural  base  (see  Agriculture, 
Forestry,  and  Fishery,  ch.  3).  Scientific  farming  on  a  commercial- 
ized basis,  land  reform  programs,  and  increased  access  to  educa- 
tion and  to  mass  media  were  all  bringing  change.  In  spite  of 
migration  to  cities,  the  rural  areas  continued  to  grow  in  popula- 
tion, from  about  33  million  in  1980  to  nearly  38  million  in  1985. 
Rural  living  conditions  also  improved  significantly,  so  that  by  the 
early  1990s  most  houses,  except  in  the  most  remote  areas,  were 
built  of  strong  material  and  equipped  with  electricity  and  indoor 
plumbing. 

Urban  Social  Patterns 

The  Philippines,  like  most  other  Southeast  Asian  nations,  has 
one  dominant  city  that  is  in  a  category  all  by  itself  as  a  "primate 
city."  In  the  mid-1980s,  Metro  Manila  produced  roughly  half  of 
the  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary)  of  the  Philippines 
and  contained  two- thirds  of  the  nation's  vehicles.  Its  plethora  of 
wholesale  and  retail  business  establishments,  insurance  companies, 
advertising  companies,  and  banks  of  every  description  made  the 
region  the  unchallenged  hub  of  business  and  finance. 

Because  of  its  fine  colleges  and  universities,  including  the  Univer- 
sity of  the  Philippines,  Ateneo  de  Manila  University,  and  De  La 
Salle  University,  some  of  the  best  in  Southeast  Asia,  the  Manila 
area  was  a  magnet  for  the  best  minds  of  the  nation.  In  addition 
to  being  the  political  and  judicial  capital,  Manila  was  the  enter- 
tainment and  arts  capital,  with  all  the  glamour  of  first-class  inter- 
national hotels  and  restaurants.  Because  Manila  dominated  the 
communications  and  media  industry,  Filipinos  everywhere  were 
constantly  made  aware  of  economic,  cultural,  and  political  events 
in  Manila.  Large  numbers  of  rural  Filipinos  moved  to  Manila  in 
search  of  economic  and  other  opportunities.  More  than  one-half 
of  the  residents  of  Metro  Manila  were  born  elsewhere. 

In  the  early  1990s,  Manila,  especially  the  Makati  section,  had 
a  modern  superstructure  of  hotels  and  banks,  supermarkets,  malls, 


94 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


art  galleries,  and  museums.  Beneath  this  structure,  however,  was 
a  substructure  of  traditional  small  neighborhoods  and  a  wide  spec- 
trum of  life-styles  ranging  from  traditional  to  modern,  from  those 
of  the  inordinately  wealthy  to  those  of  the  abjectly  poor.  Metro 
Manila  offered  greater  economic  extremes  than  other  urban  areas: 
poverty  was  visible  in  thousands  of  squatters'  flimsy  shacks  and 
wealth  was  evident  in  the  elegant,  guarded  suburbs  with  expen- 
sive homes  and  private  clubs.  But  in  Manila,  unlike  urban  centers 
in  other  countries,  these  economic  divisions  were  not  paralleled 
by  racial  or  linguistic  residential  patterns.  Manila  and  other  Philip- 
pine cities  were  truly  melting  pots,  in  which  wealth  was  the  only 
determinant  for  residence. 

Whether  in  poor  squatter  and  slum  communities  or  in  middle- 
class  sections  of  cities,  values  associated  primarily  with  rural  baran- 
gays  continued  to  be  important  in  determining  expectations,  if  not 
always  actions.  Even  when  it  was  clearly  impossible  to  create  a  warm 
and  personal  community  in  a  city  neighborhood,  Filipinos  neverthe- 
less felt  that  traditional  patterns  of  behavior  conducive  to  such  a 
community  should  be  followed.  Hospitality,  interdependence, 
patron-client  bonds,  and  real  kinship  all  continued  to  be  of  impor- 
tance for  urban  Filipinos. 

Still  another  indication  that  traditional  Philippine  values  re- 
mained functional  for  city  dwellers  was  that  average  household  size 
in  the  1980s  was  greater  in  urban  than  in  rural  areas.  Observers 
speculated  that,  as  Filipinos  moved  to  the  city,  they  had  fewer  chil- 
dren but  more  extended  family  members  and  nonrelatives  in  their 
households.  This  situation  might  have  been  caused  by  factors  such 
as  the  availability  of  more  work  opportunities  in  the  city,  the  ten- 
dency of  urban  Filipinos  to  marry  later  so  that  there  were  more 
singles,  the  housing  industry's  inability  to  keep  pace  with  urbani- 
zation, and  the  high  urban  unemployment  rates  that  caused  fami- 
lies to  supplement  their  incomes  by  taking  in  boarders.  Whatever 
the  reason,  it  seemed  clear  that  kinship  and  possibly  other  personal 
alliance  system  ties  were  no  weaker  for  most  urban  Filipinos  than 
for  their  rural  kin. 

Urban  squatters  have  been  a  perennial  problem  or,  perhaps,  a 
sign  of  a  problem.  Large  numbers  of  people  living  in  makeshift 
housing,  often  without  water  or  sewage,  indicated  that  cities  had 
grown  in  population  faster  than  in  the  facilities  required.  In  fact, 
the  growth  in  population  even  exceeded  the  demand  for  labor  so 
that  many  squatters  found  their  living  by  salvaging  material  from 
garbage  dumps,  peddling,  and  performing  irregular  day  work. 

Most  squatters  were  long-time  residents,  who  found  in  the  ab- 
sence of  rent  a  way  of  coping  with  economic  problems.  The  efforts 


95 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

of  the  government  in  the  late  1980s  to  beautify  and  modernize  the 
Manila  area  led  inevitably  to  conflict  with  the  squatters,  who  had 
settled  on  most  of  the  land  that  might  be  utilized  in  such  projects. 
The  forced  eviction  of  squatters  and  the  destruction  of  their  shacks 
were  frequent  occurrences. 

Two  types  of  organizations  have  intervened  in  support  of  squat- 
ters: nongovernmental  organizations  (NGOs)  and  syndicates.  The 
NGOs  had  a  variety  of  programs,  each  one  representing  only  a 
small  minority  of  the  actual  squatters,  but  they  sustained  pressure 
on  the  government  and  demanded  land  titles  and  an  end  to  forced 
evictions  as  well  as  help  in  housing  construction.  The  syndicates 
were  extra-legal  entities  that  provided  an  informal  type  of  govern- 
ment in  the  late  1980s,  levying  fees  of  as  much  as  3  billion  pesos 
(for  value  of  peso — see  Glossary)  a  year,  or  about  US$120  mil- 
lion. The  syndicates  allocated  land  for  lots,  built  roads  and  side- 
walks of  sorts,  maintained  order,  and  occasionally  even  provided 
water  and  light.  In  other  words,  they  acted  like  private  developers, 
although  their  only  claim  to  the  land  was  forcible  seizure.  Both 
the  authoritarian  Marcos  government  and  the  democratic  Aquino 
government  found  it  hard  to  handle  the  squatter  problem.  All  pro- 
posed solutions  contained  difficulties,  and  probably  only  a  major 
economic  recovery  in  both  rural  and  urban  areas  would  provide 
a  setting  in  which  a  degree  of  success  would  be  possible. 

The  growth  of  other  urban  centers  in  the  late  1980s  and  early 
1990s  could  signal  a  slowdown  in  the  expansion  of  Metro  Manila. 
This  situation  has  been  caused,  at  least  in  part,  by  the  policies  of 
both  the  Marcos  and  the  Aquino  administrations.  The  Marcos  ad- 
ministration encouraged  industrial  decentralization  and  prohibit- 
ed the  erection  of  new  factories  within  fifty  kilometers  of  Manila. 
In  an  effort  to  relieve  unemployment,  the  Aquino  administration 
spent  billions  of  pesos  on  rural  infrastructure,  which  helped  to  ex- 
pand business  in  the  nearby  cities.  Cities  such  as  Iligan,  Cagayan 
de  Oro,  and  General  Santos  on  Mindanao,  and  especially  Cebu 
on  Cebu  Island  experienced  economic  growth  in  the  1980s  far  ex- 
ceeding that  of  Manila. 

The  Role  and  Status  of  the  Filipina 

Women  have  always  enjoyed  greater  equality  in  Philippine  so- 
ciety than  was  common  in  other  parts  of  Southeast  Asia.  Since 
pre-Spanish  times,  Filipinos  have  traced  kinship  bilaterally.  A  wom- 
an's rights  to  legal  equality  and  to  inherit  family  property  have 
not  been  questioned.  Education  and  literacy  levels  in  1990  were 
higher  for  women  than  for  men.  President  Aquino  often  is  given 
as  an  example  of  what  women  can  accomplish  in  Philippine  society. 


96 


Manila  apartment 
Courtesy  Robert  L.  Worden 


The  appearance  of  women  in  important  positions,  however,  is  not 
new  or  even  unusual  in  the  Philippines.  Filipino  women,  usually 
called  Filipinas,  have  been  senators,  cabinet  officers,  Supreme  Court 
justices,  administrators,  and  heads  of  major  business  enterprises. 
Furthermore,  in  the  early  1990s  women  were  found  in  more  than 
a  proportionate  share  of  many  professions  although  they  predomi- 
nated in  domestic  service  (91  percent),  professional  and  technical 
positions  (59.4  percent),  and  sales  (57.9  percent).  Women  also  were 
often  preferred  in  assembly- type  factory  work.  The  availability  of 
the  types  of  employment  in  which  women  predominated  probably 
explains  why  about  two-thirds  of  the  rural  to  urban  migrants  were 
female.  Although  domestic  service  is  a  low-prestige  occupation,  the 
other  types  of  employment  compare  favorably  with  opportunities 
open  to  the  average  man. 

This  favorable  occupational  distribution  does  not  mean  that  wom- 
en were  without  economic  problems.  Although  women  were  eligi- 
ble for  high  positions,  these  were  more  often  obtained  by  men.  In 
1990  women  represented  64  percent  of  graduate  students  but  held 
only  159  of  982  career  top  executive  positions  in  the  civil  service. 
In  the  private  sector,  only  about  15  percent  of  top-level  positions 
were  held  by  women. 


97 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


According  to  many  observers,  because  men  relegated  household 
tasks  to  women,  employed  women  carried  a  double  burden.  This 
burden  was  moderated  somewhat  by  the  availability  of  relatives 
and  servants  who  functioned  as  helpers  and  child  caretakers,  but 
the  use  of  servants  and  relatives  has  sometimes  been  denounced 
as  the  equivalent  of  exploiting  some  women  to  free  others. 

Since  the  Spanish  colonial  period,  the  woman  has  been  the  family 
treasurer,  which,  at  least  to  some  degree,  gave  her  the  power  of 
the  purse.  Nevertheless,  the  Spanish  also  established  a  tradition 
of  subordinating  women,  which  is  manifested  in  women's  gener- 
ally submissive  attitudes  and  in  a  double  standard  of  sexual  con- 
duct. The  woman's  role  as  family  treasurer,  along  with  a  woman's 
maintenance  of  a  generally  submissive  demeanor,  has  changed  little, 
but  the  double  standard  of  sexual  morality  is  being  challenged.  Male 
dominance  also  has  been  challenged,  to  some  extent,  in  the  1987 
constitution.  The  constitution  contains  an  equal  rights  clause — 
although  it  lacks  specific  provisions  that  might  make  that  clause 
effective. 

As  of  the  early  1990s,  divorce  was  prohibited  in  the  Philippines. 
Under  some  circumstances,  legal  separation  was  permitted,  but 
no  legal  remarriage  was  possible.  The  family  code  of  1988  was  some- 
what more  liberal.  Reflective  of  Roman  Catholic  Church  law,  the 
code  allowed  annulment  for  psychological  incapacity  to  be  a  mari- 
tal partner,  as  well  as  for  repeated  physical  violence  against  a  mate 
or  pressure  to  change  religious  or  political  affiliation.  Divorce 
obtained  abroad  by  an  alien  mate  was  recognized.  Although  the 
restrictive  divorce  laws  might  be  viewed  as  an  infringement  on  wom- 
en's liberty  to  get  out  of  a  bad  marriage,  indications  were  that  many 
Filipinas  viewed  them  as  a  protection  against  abandonment  and 
loss  of  support  by  wayward  husbands. 

Religious  Life 

Religion  holds  a  central  place  in  the  life  of  most  Filipinos,  in- 
cluding Catholics,  Muslims,  Buddhists,  Protestants,  and  animists. 
It  is  central  not  as  an  abstract  belief  system,  but  rather  as  a  host 
of  experiences,  rituals,  ceremonies,  and  adjurations  that  provide 
continuity  in  life,  cohesion  in  the  community,  and  moral  purpose 
for  existence.  Religious  associations  are  part  of  the  system  of  kin- 
ship ties,  patron-client  bonds,  and  other  linkages  outside  the  nuclear 
family. 

Christianity  and  Islam  have  been  superimposed  on  ancient  tra- 
ditions and  acculturated.  The  unique  religious  blends  that  have 
resulted,  when  combined  with  the  strong  personal  faith  of  Filipi- 
nos, have  given  rise  to  numerous  and  diverse  revivalist  movements. 


98 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Generally  characterized  by  millenarian  goals,  antimodern  bias, 
supernaturalism,  and  authoritarianism  in  the  person  of  a  charis- 
matic messiah  figure,  these  movements  have  attracted  thousands 
of  Filipinos,  especially  in  areas  like  Mindanao,  which  have  been 
subjected  to  extreme  pressure  of  change  over  a  short  period  of  time. 
Many  have  been  swept  up  in  these  movements,  out  of  a  renewed 
sense  of  fraternity  and  community.  Like  the  highly  visible  exam- 
ples of  flagellation  and  reenacted  crucifixion  in  the  Philippines,  these 
movements  may  seem  to  have  little  in  common  with  organized 
Christianity  or  Islam.  But  in  the  intensely  personalistic  Philippine 
religious  context,  they  have  not  been  aberrations  so  much  as  ex- 
treme examples  of  how  religion  retains  its  central  role  in  society. 

The  religious  composition  of  the  Philippines  remained 
predominantly  Catholic  in  the  late  1980s.  In  1989  approximately 
82  percent  of  the  population  was  Roman  Catholic;  Muslims  ac- 
counted for  only  5  percent.  The  remaining  population  was  mostly 
affiliated  with  other  Christian  churches,  although  there  were  also 
a  small  number  of  Buddhists,  Taoists,  and  tribal  animists.  Chris- 
tians were  to  be  found  throughout  the  archipelago.  Muslims  re- 
mained largely  in  the  south  and  were  less  integrated  than  other 
religious  minorities  into  the  mainstream  of  Philippine  culture. 
Although  most  Chinese  were  members  of  Christian  churches,  a 
minority  of  Chinese  worshipped  in  Taoist  or  in  Buddhist  temples, 
the  most  spectacular  of  which  was  an  elaborate  Taoist  temple  on 
the  outskirts  of  Cebu. 

Historical  Background 

Spanish  colonialism  had,  from  its  formal  inception  in  1565  with 
the  arrival  of  Miguel  Lopez  de  Legazpi,  as  its  principal  raison  d'etre 
the  conversion  of  the  inhabitants  to  Christianity.  When  Legazpi 
embarked  on  his  conversion  efforts,  most  Filipinos  were  still  prac- 
ticing a  form  of  polytheism,  although  some  as  far  north  as  Manila 
had  converted  to  Islam.  For  the  majority,  religion  still  consisted 
of  sacrifices  and  incantations  to  spirits  believed  to  be  inhabiting 
field  and  sky,  home  and  garden,  and  other  dwelling  places  both 
human  and  natural.  Malevolent  spirits  could  bring  harm  in  the 
form  of  illness  or  accident,  whereas  benevolent  spirits,  such  as  those 
of  one's  ancestors,  could  bring  prosperity  in  the  form  of  good 
weather  and  bountiful  crops.  Shamans  were  called  upon  to  com- 
municate with  these  spirits  on  behalf  of  village  and  family,  and 
propitiation  ceremonies  were  a  common  part  of  village  life  and  ritu- 
al. Such  beliefs  continued  to  influence  the  religious  practices  of  many 
upland  tribal  groups  in  the  modern  period. 


99 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

The  religious  system  that  conquistadors  and  priests  imported  in 
the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries  was  superimposed  on  this 
polytheistic  base.  Filipinos  who  converted  to  Catholicism  did  not 
shed  their  earlier  beliefs  but  superimposed  the  new  on  the  old.  Saints 
took  primacy  over  spirits,  the  Mass  over  propitiation  ceremonies, 
and  priests  over  shamans.  This  mixing  of  different  religious  be- 
liefs and  practices  marked  Philippine  Catholicism  from  the  start. 

From  its  inception,  Catholicism  was  deeply  influenced  by  the 
prejudices,  strategies,  and  policies  of  the  Catholic  religious  or- 
ders. The  orders  of  the  Augustinians,  Dominicans,  Franciscans, 
and  others — known  collectively  as  friars— and  the  Jesuits  turned 
out  to  be  just  about  the  only  Caucasians  willing  to  dedicate  their 
lives  to  converting  and  ministering  to  Spain's  subject  population 
in  the  Philippines.  They  divided  the  archipelago  into  distinct  ter- 
ritories, learned  the  vernaculars  appropriate  to  each  region,  and 
put  down  roots  in  the  rural  Philippines,  where  they  quickly  be- 
came founts  of  wisdom  for  uneducated  and  unsophisticated  local 
inhabitants  (see  The  Friarocracy,  ch.  1).  Because  most  secular 
colonial  officials  had  no  intention  of  living  so  far  from  home  any 
longer  than  it  took  to  turn  a  handsome  profit,  friars  took  on  the 
roles  of  the  crown's  representatives  and  interpreters  of  government 
policies  in  the  countryside. 

The  close  relationship  between  church  and  state  proved  to  be 
a  liability  when  the  Philippines  was  swept  by  nationalistic  revolt 
in  the  late  nineteenth  century,  and  Filipino  priests  seized  churches 
and  proclaimed  the  Independent  Philippine  Church  (Iglesia  Fili- 
pina  Independiente).  After  the  American  occupation,  Protestant 
missionaries  came  and  established  churches  and  helped  to  spread 
American  culture. 

Roman  Catholicism 

The  Catholic  Church  made  a  remarkable  comeback  in  the  Philip- 
pines in  the  twentieth  century,  primarily  because  the  Vatican  agreed 
to  divest  itself  of  massive  church  estates  and  to  encourage  Filipi- 
nos to  join  in  the  clergy.  This  resurgence  was  so  successful  that 
Protestant  mission  efforts,  led  by  large  numbers  of  American  mis- 
sionaries during  the  period  of  American  colonial  rule,  made  little 
headway.  In  the  early  1990s,  the  clergy  were  predominantly  Filipi- 
no, all  of  the  diocesan  hierarchy  were  Filipino,  and  the  church  was 
supported  by  an  extensive  network  of  parochial  schools. 

Catholicism,  as  practiced  in  the  Philippines  in  the  1990s,  blended 
official  doctrine  with  folk  observance.  In  an  intensely  personal  way, 
God  the  Father  was  worshiped  as  a  father  figure  and  Jesus  as  the 
loving  son  who  died  for  the  sins  of  each  individual,  and  the  Virgin 


100 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


was  venerated  as  a  compassionate  mother.  In  the  words  of  scholar 
David  J.  Steinberg,  "This  framework  established  a  cosmic  com- 
padrazgo,  and  an  utang  na  bob  to  Christ,  for  his  sacrifice  transcend- 
ed any  possible  repayment  ....  To  the  devout  Filipino,  Christ 
died  to  save  him;  there  could  be  no  limit  to  an  individual's  thanks- 
giving."  As  in  other  Catholic  countries,  Filipinos  attended  official 
church  services  (men  usually  not  as  regularly  as  women)  such  as 
Masses,  novenas,  baptisms,  weddings,  and  funerals.  They  sup- 
plemented these  official  services  with  a  number  of  folk-religious 
ceremonies  basic  to  the  community's  social  and  religious  calendar 
and  involving  just  about  everyone  in  the  community. 

Perhaps  the  single  event  most  conducive  to  community  solidar- 
ity each  year  is  the  fiesta.  Celebrated  on  the  special  day  of  the  pa- 
tron saint  of  a  town,  or  barangay,  the  fiesta  is  a  time  for  general 
feasting.  Houses  are  opened  to  guests,  and  food  is  served  in  abun- 
dance. The  fiesta  always  includes  a  Mass,  but  its  purpose  is  un- 
abashedly social.  The  biggest  events  include  a  parade,  dance, 
basketball  tournament,  cockfights,  and  other  contests,  and  perhaps 
a  carnival,  in  addition  to  much  visiting  and  feasting. 

Christmas  is  celebrated  in  a  manner  that  blends  Catholic  reli- 
gious practices  with  Chinese,  Philippine,  and  American  customs. 
For  nine  days,  people  attend  misas  de  gallo  (early  morning  Christ- 
mas Mass).  They  hang  elaborate  lanterns  (originally  patterned  af- 
ter the  Chinese  lanterns)  and  other  decorations  in  their  homes  and 
join  with  friends  in  caroling.  On  Christmas  Eve,  everyone  attends 
midnight  Mass,  the  climax  of  the  misas  de  gallo  and  the  year's  high 
point  of  church  attendance.  After  the  service,  it  is  traditional  to 
return  home  for  a  grand  family  meal.  The  remaining  days  of  the 
Christmas  season  are  spent  visiting  kin,  especially  on  New  Year's 
Day  and  Epiphany,  January  6.  The  Christmas  season  is  a  time 
of  visiting  and  receiving  guests.  It  is  also  a  time  for  reunion  with 
all  types  of  kin — blood,  affinal,  and  ceremonial.  Children  especially 
are  urged  to  visit  godparents. 

During  the  Lenten  season,  most  communities  do  a  reading  of 
the  Passion  narrative  and  a  performance  of  a  popular  Passion  play. 
The  custom  of  reading  or  chanting  of  the  Passion  could  be  an  adap- 
tation of  a  pre-Spanish  practice  of  chanting  lengthy  epics,  but  its 
continuing  importance  in  Philippine  life  probably  reflects  the  popu- 
lar conception  of  personal  indebtedness  to  Christ  for  His  supreme 
sacrifice.  At  least  one  observer  has  suggested  that  Filipinos  have, 
through  the  Passion,  experienced  a  feeling  of  redemption  that  has 
been  the  basis  for  both  millennial  dreams  and  historical  revolu- 
tionary movements  for  independence. 


101 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Indigenous  Christian  Churches 

Iglesia  Filipina  Independiente 

The  Iglesia  Filipina  Independiente  (Independent  Philippine 
Church),  founded  by  Gregorio  Aglipay  (1860-1940),  received  the 
support  of  revolutionary  leader  Emilio  Aguinaldo  during  the  revolt 
against  Spain  and  subsequent  conflicts  with  American  forces.  It 
rode  the  tide  of  antifriar  nationalism  in  absorbing  Filipino  Roman 
Catholic  clergy  and  forcibly  seizing  church  property  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  twentieth  century.  One  out  of  every  sixteen  diocesan 
priests  and  one  out  of  four  Philippine  Catholics  followed  Aglipay 
into  the  Iglesia  Filipina  Independiente  in  those  years  of  violent  na- 
tional and  religious  catharsis.  The  Iglesia  Filipina  Independiente, 
formally  organized  in  1902,  thus  enjoyed  approximately  five  years 
of  rapid  growth,  before  a  temporary  decline  in  Philippine  nation- 
alism sent  its  fortunes  into  precipitous  decline. 

Many  followers  returned  to  Catholicism,  especially  after  Ameri- 
cans and  then  Filipinos  replaced  Spanish  priests.  Among  those  who 
remained  in  the  new  church,  a  crippling  schism  emerged  over  doc- 
trinal interpretation,  especially  after  1919,  when  members  were 
suddenly  instructed  to  discard  earlier  church  statements  concern- 
ing the  divinity  of  Christ.  To  some  extent,  the  schism  was  caused 
by  Aglipay  himself,  who  shifted  his  theological  views  between  1 902 
and  1919.  At  first,  he  deemphasized  doctrinal  differences  between 
his  church  and  Roman  Catholicism,  and  most  of  the  independent 
church's  priests  followed  Roman  Catholic  ritual — saying  Mass, 
hearing  confession,  and  presiding  over  folk  religious-Catholic 
ceremonies  just  as  always.  Later,  Aglipay  moved  closer  to 
Unitarianism. 

In  1938  the  church  formally  split.  The  faction  opposing  Agli- 
pay later  won  a  court  decision  giving  it  the  right  to  both  the  name 
and  property  of  the  Iglesia  Filipina  Independiente.  Followers  of 
Aglipay,  however,  continued  to  argue  that  they  represented  true 
Aglipayanism.  In  the  early  1990s,  those  Aglipayans  who  rejected 
the  Unitarian  stance  and  adhered  to  the  concept  of  the  Trinity  were 
associated  with  the  Protestant  Episcopal  church  of  the  United  States. 

Iglesia  ni  Kris  to 

In  the  1990s,  all  over  Luzon,  the  Visayan  Islands,  and  even 
northern  Mindanao,  unmistakable  Iglesia  ni  Kristo  (Church  of 
Christ)  places  of  worship,  all  similar  in  design  and  architecture, 
were  being  constructed  for  a  rapidly  growing  membership.  Founded 
by  Felix  Manalo  Ysagun  in  1914,  the  Iglesia  ni  Kristo  did  not  at- 
tract much  notice  until  after  World  War  II,  when  its  highly 


102 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


authoritarian  organization  and  evangelical  style  began  to  fill  a  need 
for  urban  and  rural  families  displaced  by  rapid  changes  in  Philip- 
pine society.  The  church,  led  by  clergy  with  little  formal  educa- 
tion, requires  attendance  at  twice-weekly  services  conducted  in  local 
Philippine  languages,  where  guards  take  attendance  and  forbid  en- 
trance to  nonmembers.  Membership  dues,  based  on  ability  to  pay, 
are  mandatory.  Members  are  expected  to  be  "disciplined,  clean, 
and  God-fearing."  Gamblers  and  drunks  face  the  possibility  of  be- 
ing expelled.  The  church  forbids  (on  penalty  of  expulsion)  mar- 
riage to  someone  of  another  faith  and  membership  in  a  labor  union. 
The  Iglesia  ni  Kristo  also  tells  its  members  how  to  vote  and  is  even 
respected  for  its  ability  to  get  out  the  vote  for  candidates  of  its  choice. 

There  are  a  number  of  reasons  why  so  many  Filipinos  have  joined 
such  an  authoritarian  church,  not  the  least  of  which  is  the  institu- 
tion's ability  to  stay  the  decline  of  traditional  Philippine  vertical 
patron-client  relationships,  especially  in  urban  areas.  The  church 
also  has  been  successful  in  attracting  potential  converts  through 
its  use  of  mass  rallies  similar  to  Protestant  revival  meetings.  The 
message  is  always  simple  and  straightforward — listeners  are  told 
that  the  Iglesia  ni  Kristo  is  the  mystical  body  of  Christ,  outside 
of  which  there  can  be  no  salvation.  Roman  Catholicism  and  Pro- 
testant churches  are  denounced — only  through  membership  in  the 
Iglesia  ni  Kristo  can  there  be  hope  for  redemption. 

Although  the  original  appeal  of  the  Iglesia  ni  Kristo  was  to  mem- 
bers of  the  lower  socioeconomic  class,  its  puritanical  precepts  en- 
couraged social  mobility,  and  many  of  its  members  were  climbing 
the  economic  ladder.  Whether  the  church  would  be  able  to  main- 
tain its  puritanical,  authoritarian  stance  when  more  of  its  mem- 
bers reached  middle-class  status  was  difficult  to  predict.  The  church 
gave  neither  a  count  nor  an  estimate  of  its  membership,  but  the 
rapid  construction  of  elaborate  buildings,  including  a  campus  for 
an  Iglesia  ni  Kristo  college  adjacent  to  the  University  of  the  Philip- 
pines, would  indicate  that  it  was  expanding. 

Protestantism 

From  the  start,  Protestant  churches  in  the  Philippines  were 
plagued  by  disunity  and  schisms.  At  one  point  after  World  War  II, 
there  were  more  than  200  denominations  representing  less  than  3 
percent  of  the  populace.  Successful  mergers  of  some  denominations 
into  the  United  Church  of  Christ  in  the  Philippines  and  the  forma- 
tion of  the  National  Council  of  Churches  in  the  Philippines  (NCCP) 
brought  a  degree  of  order.  In  the  1990s,  there  remained  a  deep  gulf 
and  considerable  antagonism,  however,  between  middle-class-oriented 


103 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

NCCP  churches  and  the  scores  of  more  evangelical  denominations 
sprinkled  throughout  the  islands. 

Protestantism  has  always  been  associated  with  United  States  in- 
fluence in  the  Philippines.  All  major  denominations  in  the  United 
States,  and  some  minor  ones,  sent  missions  to  the  Philippines,  where 
they  found  the  most  fertile  ground  for  conversions  among  some 
of  the  upland  tribes  not  yet  reached  by  Catholic  priests  and  among 
the  urban  middle  class.  Most  American  school  teachers  who  pi- 
oneered in  the  new  Philippine  public  school  system  also  were  Prot- 
estants, and  they  laid  the  groundwork  for  Protestant  churches  in 
many  lowland  barrios.  Filipinos  who  converted  to  Protestantism 
often  experienced  significant  upward  social  mobility  in  the  American 
colonial  period.  Most  were  middle-level  bureaucrats,  servants,  law- 
yers, or  small  entrepreneurs,  and  some  became  nationally  promi- 
nent despite  their  minority  religious  adherence. 

Protestant  missionaries  made  major  contributions  in  the  fields 
of  education  and  medicine.  Throughout  the  islands,  Protestant 
churches  set  up  clinics  and  hospitals.  They  also  constructed  pri- 
vate schools,  including  such  outstanding  institutions  of  higher 
education  as  Central  Philippine  University,  Silliman  University, 
Philippine  Christian  College,  and  Dansalan  Junior  College  in 
Marawi. 

The  denominations  planted  by  the  early  missionaries  numbered 
among  their  adherents  about  2  percent  of  the  population  in  the 
late  1980s.  Their  influence  was  supplemented,  if  not  overshadowed, 
by  a  number  of  evangelical  and  charismatic  churches  and  para- 
religious  groups,  such  as  New  Tribes  Mission,  World  Vision,  and 
Campus  Crusade  for  Christ,  which  became  active  after  World  War 
II.  Increased  activity  by  these  religious  groups  did  not  mean  that 
the  country  had  ceased  to  be  primarily  Catholic  or  that  the  older 
Protestant  churches  had  lost  their  influence.  It  did  indicate  that 
nominal  Catholics  might  be  less  involved  in  parish  activities  than 
ever,  that  the  older  Protestant  churches  had  new  rivals,  and  that, 
in  general,  religious  competition  had  increased. 

An  indication  of  this  trend  is  seen  in  the  change  in  the  affilia- 
tion of  missionaries  coming  to  the  Philippines.  In  1986  there  were 
1,931  non-Roman  Catholic  missionaries,  not  counting  those  iden- 
tified with  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  and  Latter  Day  Saints.  Of 
these,  only  sixty-three  were  from  the  denominations  that  sent  mis- 
sionaries in  the  early  1900s.  The  rest  were  from  fundamentalist 
churches  or  para-church  groups  (the  terms  are  not  necessarily  ex- 
clusive). 


104 


Hospital  in  Manila 
Courtesy  Lisowski  Collection,  Library  of  Congress 

Islam 

In  the  early  1990s,  Filipino  Muslims  were  firmly  rooted  in  their 
Islamic  faith.  Every  year  many  went  on  the  hajj  (pilgrimage)  to 
the  holy  city  of  Mecca;  on  return  men  would  be  addressed  by  the 
honoritic  "hajj"  and  women  the  honorific  "hajji."  In  most  Mus- 
lim communities,  there  was  at  least  one  mosque  from  which  the 
muezzin  called  the  faithful  to  prayer  five  times  a  day.  Those  who 
responded  to  the  call  to  public  prayer  removed  their  shoes  before 
entering  the  mosque,  aligned  themselves  in  straight  rows  before 
the  minrab  (niche),  and  offered  prayers  in  the  direction  of  Mecca. 
An  imam,  or  prayer  leader,  led  the  recitation  in  Arabic  verses  from 
the  Quran,  following  the  practices  of  the  Sunni  (see  Glossary)  sect 
of  Islam  common  to  most  of  the  Muslim  world.  It  was  sometimes 
said  that  the  Moros  often  neglected  to  perform  the  ritual  prayer 
and  did  not  strictly  abide  by  the  fast  (no  food  or  drink  in  daylight 
hours)  during  Ramadan,  the  ninth  month  of  the  Muslim  calen- 
dar, or  perform  the  duty  of  almsgiving.  They  did,  however, 
scrupulously  observe  other  rituals  and  practices  and  celebrate  great 
festivals  of  Islam  such  as  the  end  of  Ramadan;  Muhammad's  birth- 
day; the  night  of  his  ascension  to  heaven;  and  the  start  of  the  Muslim 
New  Year,  the  first  day  of  the  month  of  Muharram. 


105 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Islam  in  the  Philippines  has  absorbed  indigenous  elements,  much 
as  has  Catholicism.  Moros  thus  make  offerings  to  spirits  (diwatas), 
malevolent  or  benign,  believing  that  such  spirits  can  and  will  have 
an  effect  on  one's  health,  family,  and  crops.  They  also  include  pre- 
Islamic  customs  in  ceremonies  marking  rites  of  passage — birth,  mar- 
riage, and  death.  Moros  share  the  essentials  of  Islam,  but  specific 
practices  vary  from  one  Moro  group  to  another.  Although  Mus- 
lim Filipino  women  are  required  to  stay  at  the  back  of  the  mosque 
for  prayers  (out  of  the  sight  of  men),  they  are  much  freer  in  daily 
life  than  are  women  in  many  other  Islamic  societies. 

Because  of  the  world  resurgence  of  Islam  since  World  War  II, 
Muslims  in  the  Philippines  have  a  stronger  sense  of  their  unity  as 
a  religious  community  than  they  had  in  the  past.  Since  the  early 
1970s,  more  Muslim  teachers  have  visited  the  nation  and  more 
Philippine  Muslims  have  gone  abroad — either  on  the  hajj  or  on 
scholarships — to  Islamic  centers  than  ever  before.  They  have 
returned  revitalized  in  their  faith  and  determined  to  strengthen  the 
ties  of  their  fellow  Moros  with  the  international  Islamic  community. 
As  a  result,  Muslims  have  built  many  new  mosques  and  religious 
schools,  where  students  (male  and  female)  learn  the  basic  rituals 
and  principles  of  Islam  and  learn  to  read  the  Quran  in  Arabic.  A 
number  of  Muslim  institutions  of  higher  learning,  such  as  the  Jami- 
atul  Philippine  al-Islamia  in  Marawi,  also  offer  advanced  courses 
in  Islamic  studies. 

Divisions  along  generational  lines  have  emerged  among  Moros 
since  the  1960s.  Many  young  Muslims,  dissatisfied  with  the  old 
leaders,  asserted  that  datu  and  sultans  were  unnecessary  in  modern 
Islamic  society.  Among  themselves,  these  young  reformers  were 
divided  between  moderates,  working  within  the  system  for  their 
political  goals,  and  militants,  engaging  in  guerrilla- style  warfare. 
To  some  degree,  the  government  managed  to  isolate  the  militants, 
but  Muslim  reformers,  whether  moderates  or  militants,  were  united 
in  their  strong  religious  adherence.  This  bond  was  significant  be- 
cause the  Moros  felt  threatened  by  the  continued  expansion  of 
Christians  into  southern  Mindanao  and  by  the  prolonged  presence 
of  Philippine  army  troops  in  their  homeland. 

Ecumenical  Developments 

The  coming  of  Protestant  missionaries  was  not  welcomed  by 
Catholic  clergy,  and,  for  several  years,  representatives  of  Catholic 
and  Protestant  churches  engaged  in  mutual  recrimination.  Catholics 
were  warned  against  involvement  in  Protestant  activities,  even  in 
groups  like  the  Young  Men's  Christian  Association  and  the  Young 
Women's  Christian  Association.  Since  the  1970s,  hostility  between 


106 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Catholics  and  many  Protestant  churches  had  lessened;  churches 
emphasized  the  virtues  rather  than  the  alleged  defects  of  other 
churches;  and  priests  and  pastors  occasionally  cooperated.  Although 
the  ecumenical  emphasis  did  not  eliminate  competition  and  gained 
far  more  hold  among  older  Protestant  churches  than  among  groups 
that  had  entered  the  Philippines  more  recently,  the  trend  had  sig- 
nificantly moderated  religious  tensions. 

Some  tentative  efforts  toward  ecumenical  understanding  also  were 
made  in  relations  between  Christians  and  Muslims,  delineating 
common  ground  in  the  mutual  acceptance  of  much  of  the  Old  Testa- 
ment and  New  Testament  of  the  Bible.  Occasional  conferences  were 
held  in  an  attempt  to  expand  understanding.  Their  success  by  the 
early  1990s  was  limited  but  might  indicate  that,  even  in  this  tense 
area,  improvement  was  possible. 

Church  and  State 

Church  and  state  were  officially  separate  in  the  1990s,  but  reli- 
gious instruction  could,  at  the  option  of  parents,  be  provided  in 
public  schools.  The  Catholic  Church's  influence  on  the  govern- 
ment was  quite  evident  in  the  lack  of  resources  devoted  to  family 
planning  and  the  prohibition  of  divorce. 

The  Catholic  Church  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  the  Protestant 
churches  engaged  in  a  variety  of  community  welfare  efforts.  These 
efforts  went  beyond  giving  relief  and  involved  attempts  to  alter  the 
economic  position  of  the  poor.  Increasingly  in  the  1970s,  these  at- 
tempts led  the  armed  forces  of  President  Marcos  to  suspect  that 
church  agencies  were  aiding  the  communist  guerrillas.  In  spite  of 
reconciliation  efforts,  the  estrangement  between  the  churches  and 
Marcos  grew;  it  culminated  in  the  call  by  Cardinal  Jaime  Sin  for 
the  people  to  go  to  the  streets  to  block  efforts  of  Marcos  to  remain 
in  office  after  the  questionable  election  of  1986  (see  From  Aqui- 
no's Assassination  to  People's  Power,  ch.  1;  Political  Role,  ch.  5). 
The  resulting  nonviolent  uprising  was  known  variously  as  People's 
Power  and  as  the  EDSA  Revolution  (see  Glossary). 

The  good  feeling  that  initially  existed  between  the  church  and 
the  government  of  President  Aquino  lasted  only  a  short  time  after 
her  inauguration.  Deep-seated  divisions  over  the  need  for  revolu- 
tionary changes  again  led  to  tension  between  the  government  and 
some  elements  in  the  churches. 

Catholics  fell  into  three  general  groups:  conservatives  who  were 
suspicious  of  social  action  and  held  that  Christian  love  could  best 
be  expressed  through  existing  structures;  moderates,  probably  the 
largest  group,  in  favor  of  social  action  but  inclined  to  cooperate 
with  government  programs;  and  progressives,  who  did  not  trust 


107 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

the  government  programs,  were  critical  both  of  Philippine  business 
and  of  American  influence,  and  felt  that  drastic  change  was  need- 
ed. Progressives  were  especially  disturbed  at  atrocities  accompany- 
ing the  use  of  vigilantes.  They  denied  that  they  were  communists, 
but  some  of  their  leaders  supported  communist  fronts,  and  a  few 
priests  actually  joined  armed  guerrilla  bands.  There  appeared  to 
be  more  progressives  among  religious-order  priests  than  among 
diocesan  priests. 

The  major  Protestant  churches  reflected  the  same  three-way  di- 
vision as  the  Catholics.  The  majority  of  clergy  and  missionaries 
probably  were  moderates.  A  significant  number,  however,  sided 
with  the  Catholic  progressives  in  deploring  the  use  of  vigilante 
groups  against  the  guerrillas,  asking  for  drastic  land  reform,  and 
opposing  American  retention  of  military  bases.  They  tended  to 
doubt  that  a  rising  economy  would  lessen  social  ills  and  often  op- 
posed the  type  of  deflationary  reform  urged  by  the  IMF  (Interna- 
tional Monetary  Fund — see  Glossary). 

Education 

In  1991  the  education  system  was  reaching  a  relatively  large  part 
of  the  population,  at  least  at  the  elementary  level.  According  to 
1988  Philippine  government  figures,  which  count  as  literate  every- 
one who  has  completed  four  years  of  elementary  school,  the  over- 
all literacy  rate  was  88  percent,  up  from  82.6  percent  in  1970. 
Literacy  rates  were  virtually  the  same  for  women  and  men.  Elemen- 
tary education  was  free  and,  in  the  1987  academic  year,  was  provid- 
ed to  some  15  million  schoolchildren,  96.4  percent  of  the  age-group. 
High  school  enrollment  rates  were  approximately  56  percent  na- 
tionwide but  were  somewhat  lower  on  Mindanao  and  in  the  Eastern 
Visayas  region.  Enrollment  in  institutions  of  higher  learning  ex- 
ceeded 1.6  million. 

Filipinos  have  a  deep  regard  for  education,  which  they  view  as 
a  primary  avenue  for  upward  social  and  economic  mobility.  From 
the  onset  of  United  States  colonial  rule,  with  its  heavy  emphasis 
on  mass  public  education,  Filipinos  internalized  the  American  ideal 
of  a  democratic  society  in  which  individuals  could  get  ahead  through 
attainment  of  a  good  education.  Middle-class  parents  make  tremen- 
dous sacrifices  in  order  to  provide  secondary  and  higher  educa- 
tion for  their  children. 

Philippine  education  institutions  in  the  late  1980s  varied  in  qual- 
ity. Some  universities  were  excellent,  others  were  considered  "diplo- 
ma mills"  with  low  standards.  Public  elementary  schools  often 
promoted  students  regardless  of  achievement,  and  students,  espe- 
cially those  in  poor  rural  areas,  had  relatively  low  test  scores. 


108 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  proportion  of  the  national  government  budget  going  to  edu- 
cation has  varied  from  a  high  of  31.53  percent  in  1957  to  a  low 
of  7.61  percent  in  1981.  It  stood  at  15.5  percent  in  1987.  The  peso 
amount,  however,  has  steadily  increased,  and  the  lower  percent- 
age reflects  the  effect  of  a  larger  total  government  budget.  Although 
some  materials  were  still  in  short  supply,  by  1988  the  school  sys- 
tem was  able  to  provide  one  textbook  per  subject  per  student.  In 
1991  the  Philippine  government  and  universities  had  numerous 
scholarship  programs  to  provide  students  from  low-income  fami- 
lies with  access  to  education.  The  University  of  the  Philippines  fol- 
lowed a  "socialized  tuition"  plan  whereby  students  from  higher 
income  families  paid  higher  fees  and  students  from  the  lowest  in- 
come families  were  eligible  for  free  tuition  plus  a  living  allowance. 

Historical  Background 

Many  of  the  Filipinos  who  led  the  revolution  against  Spain  in 
the  1890s  were  ilustrados.  Ilustrados,  almost  without  exception,  came 
from  wealthy  Filipino  families  that  could  afford  to  send  them  to 
the  limited  number  of  secondary  schools  {colegios)  open  to  non- 
Spaniards.  Some  of  them  went  on  to  the  University  of  Santo 
Tomas  in  Manila  or  to  Spain  for  higher  education.  Although  these 
educational  opportunities  were  not  available  to  most  Filipinos,  the 
Spanish  colonial  government  had  initiated  a  system  of  free,  com- 
pulsory primary  education  in  1863.  By  1898  enrollment  in  schools 
at  all  levels  exceeded  200,000  students. 

Between  1901  and  1902,  more  than  1,000  American  teachers, 
known  as  "Thomasites"  for  the  S.S.  Thomas,  which  transported 
the  original  groups  to  the  Philippines,  fanned  out  across  the  ar- 
chipelago to  open  barangay  schools.  They  taught  in  English  and, 
although  they  did  not  completely  succeed  in  Americanizing  their 
wards,  instilled  in  the  Filipinos  a  deep  faith  in  the  general  value 
of  education.  Almost  immediately,  enrollments  began  to  mushroom 
from  a  total  of  only  150,000  in  1900-1901  to  just  under  1  million 
in  elementary  schools  two  decades  later.  After  independence  in 
1946,  the  government  picked  up  this  emphasis  on  education  and 
opened  schools  in  even  the  remotest  areas  of  the  archipelago  dur- 
ing the  1950s  and  the  1960s. 

Education  in  the  Modern  Period 

The  expansion  in  the  availability  of  education  was  not  always 
accompanied  by  qualitative  improvements.  Therefore,  quality  be- 
came a  major  concern  in  the  1970s  and  early  1980s.  Data  for  the 
1970s  show  significant  differences  in  literacy  for  different  regions  of 
the  country  and  between  rural  and  urban  areas.  Western  Mindanao 


109 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Region,  for  example,  had  a  literacy  rate  of  65  percent  as  compared 
with  90  percent  for  Central  Luzon  and  95  percent  for  Metro  Manila. 
A  survey  of  elementary-school  graduates  taken  in  the  mid-1970s 
indicated  that  many  of  the  respondents  had  failed  to  absorb  much 
of  the  required  course  work  and  revealed  major  deficiencies  in  read- 
ing, mathematics,  and  language.  Performance  was  poorest  among 
respondents  from  Mindanao  and  only  somewhat  better  for  those 
from  the  Visayan  Islands,  whereas  the  best  performance  was  in 
the  Central  Luzon  and  Southern  Tagalog  regions. 

Other  data  revealed  a  direct  relationship  between  literacy  lev- 
els, educational  attainment,  and  incidence  of  poverty.  As  a  rule, 
families  with  incomes  below  the  poverty  line  could  not  afford  to 
educate  their  children  beyond  elementary  school.  Programs  aimed 
at  improving  work  productivity  and  family  income  could  alleviate 
some  of  the  problems  in  education,  such  as  the  high  dropout  rates 
that  reflected,  at  least  in  part,  family  and  work  needs.  Other 
problems,  such  as  poor  teacher  performance,  reflected  overcrowded 
classrooms,  lack  of  particular  language  skills,  and  low  wages.  These 
problems,  in  turn,  resulted  in  poor  student  performance  and  high 
repeater  rates  and  required  direct  action. 

Vocational  education  in  the  late  1 980s  was  receiving  greater  em- 
phasis then  in  the  past.  Traditionally,  Filipinos  have  tended  to 
equate  the  attainment  of  education  directly  with  escape  from  manual 
labor.  Thus  it  has  not  been  easy  to  win  general  popular  support 
for  vocational  training. 

Catholic  and  Protestant  churches  sponsored  schools,  and  there 
were  also  proprietary  (privately  owned,  nonsectarian)  schools. 
Neither  the  proprietary  nor  the  religious  schools  received  state  aid 
except  for  occasional  subsidies  for  special  programs.  Only  about 
6  percent  of  elementary  students  were  in  private  schools,  but  the 
proportion  rose  sharply  to  about  63  percent  at  the  secondary  level 
and  approximately  85  percent  at  the  tertiary  level.  About  a  third 
of  the  private  school  tertiary-level  enrollment  was  in  religiously  af- 
filiated schools. 

In  1990  over  10,000  foreign  students  studied  in  the  Philippines, 
mostly  in  the  regular  system,  although  there  were  three  schools  for 
international  students — Brent  in  Baguio  and  Faith  Academy  and 
the  International  School  in  Manila.  These  schools  had  some  Filipino 
students  and  faculty,  but  the  majority  of  the  students  and  faculty 
were  foreign,  mostly  American.  Faith  Academy  served  primarily 
the  children  of  missionaries,  although  others  were  admitted  as  space 
was  available. 

Chinese  in  the  Philippines  have  established  their  own  system  of 
elementary  and  secondary  schools.  Classes  in  the  morning  covered 


110 


Rural  elementary  school 
Courtesy  Lisowski  Collection,  Library  of  Congress 

the  usual  Filipino  curriculum  and  were  taught  by  Filipino  teachers. 
In  the  afternoon,  classes  taught  by  Chinese  teachers  offered  instruc- 
tion in  Chinese  language  and  literature. 

In  1990  the  education  system  offered  six  years  of  elementary  in- 
struction followed  by  four  years  of  high  school.  Children  entered  pri- 
mary school  at  the  age  of  seven.  Instruction  was  bilingual  in  Pilipino 
and  English,  although  it  was  often  claimed  that  English  was  being 
slighted.  Before  independence  in  1946,  all  instruction  was  in  En- 
glish; since  then,  the  national  language,  Pilipino,  has  been  increas- 
ingly emphasized.  Until  the  compulsory  study  of  Spanish  was 
abolished  in  1987,  secondary  and  higher-education  students  had 
to  contend  with  three  languages — Pilipino,  English,  and  Spanish. 

In  1991  all  education  was  governed  by  the  Department  of  Edu- 
cation, Culture,  and  Sports,  which  had  direct  supervision  over  pub- 
lic schools  and  set  mandatory  policies  for  private  schools  as  well. 
Bureaus  of  elementary,  secondary,  and  higher  education  super- 
vised functional  and  regional  offices.  District  supervisors  exercised 
direct  administrative  oversight  of  principals  and  teachers  in  their 
district.  There  was  a  separate  office  for  nonformal  education,  which 
served  students  not  working  for  a  graduation  certificate  from  a 
conventional  school.  Financing  for  public  schools  came  from  the 


111 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

national  treasury,  although  localities  could  supplement  national  ap- 
propriations. 

Education  policies  fluctuated  constantly  and  were  likely  to  be 
changed  before  teachers  became  accustomed  to  them.  Areas  of  dis- 
agreement among  Filipinos  produced  educational  change  as  one 
faction  or  another  gained  control  of  a  highly  centralized  public  edu- 
cation administration.  One  example  was  the  community  school  pro- 
gram that  sought  to  involve  schools  in  agricultural  improvement. 
It  was  pushed  vigorously  in  the  1950s,  but  little  has  been  heard 
about  it  since.  Another  policy  issue  was  the  choice  of  a  language 
of  instruction.  Until  independence,  English  was,  at  least  in  the- 
ory, the  language  of  instruction  from  first  grade  through  college. 
The  emphasis  on  English  was  followed  by  a  shift  toward  local  lan- 
guages and  dialects,  with  simultaneous  instruction  in  English  and 
Pilipino  in  later  grades.  Then  in  1974,  at  least  in  official  directives, 
schools  were  told  to  drop  the  local  language  or  dialect,  and  a 
bilingual — English  and  Pilipino — program  was  adopted. 

One  of  the  most  serious  problems  in  the  Philippines  in  the  1980s 
and  early  1990s  concerned  the  large  number  of  students  who  com- 
pleted college  but  then  could  not  find  a  job  commensurate  with 
their  educational  skills.  If  properly  utilized,  these  trained  person- 
nel could  facilitate  economic  development,  but  when  left  idle  or 
forced  to  take  jobs  beneath  their  qualifications,  the  group  could 
be  a  major  source  of  discontent. 

Health  and  Living  Standards 

The  struggle  against  disease  has  progressed  considerably  over 
the  years.  Health  conditions  in  the  Philippines  in  1990  approxi- 
mated those  in  other  Southeast  Asian  countries  but  lagged  behind 
those  in  the  West.  Life  expectancy,  for  instance,  increased  from 
51.2  years  in  1960  to  69  years  for  women  and  63  years  for  men 
in  1990  (see  fig.  4).  Infant  mortality  was  101  per  1,000  in  1950 
and  had  dropped  to  51.6  per  1,000  in  1989.  In  1923  approximately 
76  percent  of  deaths  were  caused  by  communicable  diseases.  By 
1980  deaths  from  communicable  diseases  had  declined  to  about 
26  percent. 

In  1989  the  ratio  of  physicians  and  hospitals  to  the  total  popula- 
tion was  similar  to  that  in  a  number  of  other  Southeast  Asian  coun- 
tries, but  considerably  below  that  in  Europe  and  North  America. 
Most  health  care  personnel  and  facilities  were  concentrated  in  urban 
areas.  A  substantial  number  of  physicians  and  nurses  migrated  to 
the  United  States  in  the  1970s  and  1980s,  but  there  are  no  reliable 
figures  to  indicate  what  effect  this  had  on  the  Philippines.  Hospital 


112 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

equipment  often  did  not  function  because  there  were  insufficient 
technicians  capable  of  maintaining  it.  The  1990  report  of  the 
Department  of  Health  said,  however,  that  centers  for  the  repair 
and  maintenance  of  hospital  equipment  expected  to  alleviate  this 
problem. 

In  1987  a  little  more  than  one-half  of  the  infants  and  children 
received  a  complete  series  of  immunization  shots,  a  major  step  in 
preventive  medicine,  but  obviously  far  short  of  a  desirable  goal. 
The  problem  was  especially  difficult  in  rural  areas.  The  Department 
of  Health  had  attempted  to  provide  every  barangay  with  at  least  mini- 
mum health  care,  but  doing  so  was  both  difficult  and  expensive, 
and  the  more  remote  areas  inevitably  received  less  attention. 

Although  relatively  few  Filipinos  had  been  infected  with  acquired 
immune  deficiency  syndrome  (AIDS)  as  of  the  early  1990s,  con- 
cern about  the  disease  caused  authorities  to  give  it  considerable 
attention.  By  April  1979,  only  three  people  had  died  from  AIDS, 
two  of  whom  were  overseas  Filipinos  visiting  the  homeland  and 
one  an  American  civilian  who  had  contracted  the  disease  outside 
the  Philippines.  In  1985  the  Department  of  Health  and  the  Unit- 
ed States  Naval  Medical  Research  unit  tested  more  than  17,000 
people,  including  some  14,000  hospitality  girls  in  Olangapo  and 
a  number  of  other  Filipino  cities.  They  identified  twenty-one  women 
as  human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV)  carriers.  The  American 
sponsorship  of  the  study  was  seized  upon  as  an  argument  for  end- 
ing the  Military  Bases  Agreement  with  the  United  States  (see  For- 
eign Military  Relations,  ch.  5).  A  June  1990  Philippine  government 
study  reported  that  at  that  time  AIDS  was  growing  at  the  rate  of 
four  cases  a  month  and  that  twenty  people  had  died  from  the  dis- 
ease. The  study  indicated  that  most  AIDS  cases  in  the  Philippines 
were  transmitted  by  heterosexual  activity.  An  April  30,  1991, 
Department  of  Health  report  indicated  that  240  Filipinos  were  in- 
fected with  AIDS. 

Like  many  other  countries,  the  Philippines  has  had  a  problem 
with  illicit  drugs.  Official  Philippine  government  statistics  for  1989 
indicated  only  1 ,733  addicts,  but  the  assumption  was  that  the  real 
number  was  from  ten  to  a  hundred  times  as  great.  The  govern- 
ment has  instituted  both  education  and  treatment  programs,  but 
it  was  uncertain  how  effective  these  programs  would  be.  There  also 
was  a  problem  with  inadequately  tested  legal  drugs.  In  1983,  more 
than  265  pharmaceutical  products  that  were  banned  in  many  other 
countries  were  sold  in  the  Philippines.  The  Department  of  Health 
succeeded  in  eliminating  128  of  these  products  by  1988.  Attempts 
to  eliminate  others  have  been  blocked  by  the  courts,  which  ruled 
that  the  department  had  acted  without  due  process. 


113 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


AGE-GROUP 

80  and  over 
75-79 
70-74 
65-69 
60-64 
55-59 
50-54 
45-49 
40-44 
35-39 
30-34 
25-29 
20-24 
15-19 
10-14 

5-9 

0-4 


I 

■ 

□ 

MALE 

FEM 

*LE 

Vs7) 

/  /  / 

b 

I  I  I  I 

4 

2 

> 

( 

)  1 

-rm- 

2 

3 

[  i  i  i  i  | 
4  5 

POPULATION  IN  MILLIONS 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Federal  Republic  of  Germany,  Statistisches  Bundesamt, 
Landerbericht,  Philippine^  Wiesbaden,  1989,  19-20. 


Figure  4.  Estimated  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1988 

Malnutrition  has  been  a  perennial  concern  of  the  Philippine 
government  and  health  care  professionals.  In  1987  the  Department 
of  Health  reported  that  2.8  percent  of  preschoolers  were  suffering 
from  third-degree  malnutrition  and  17.6  percent  from  second-degree 
malnutrition.  To  alleviate  this  problem,  the  government  targeted 
food  assistance  for  nearly  500,000  preschoolers  and  lactating  mothers. 

Nutrition  has  shown  some  improvement.  In  1955  government 
statistics  estimated  the  daily  per  capita  available  food  supply  at  only 
80  percent  of  sufficiency.  In  1986  it  had  improved  to  101.8  per- 
cent. In  the  same  period,  the  consumption  of  milk  nearly  tripled. 

The  Philippines  has  a  dual  health  care  system  consisting  of 
modern  (Western)  and  traditional  medicine.  The  modern  system 
is  based  on  the  germ  theory  of  disease  and  has  scientifically  trained 
practitioners.  The  traditional  approach  assumes  that  illness  is  caused 
by  a  breach  of  taboos  set  by  supernatural  forces.  It  is  not  unusual 
for  an  individual  to  alternate  between  the  two  forms  of  medicine. 
If  the  benefits  of  modern  medicine  are  immediately  obvious — 
eyeglasses,  for  instance — then  there  is  little  argument.  If  there  is 
no  immediate  cure,  the  impulse  to  turn  to  the  traditional  healer 
is  often  strong. 

One  type  of  traditional  healer  that  attracted  the  attention  of 
foreigners  as  well  as  Filipinos  was  the  so-called  psychic  surgeon, 


114 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


who  professed  to  be  able  to  operate  without  using  a  scalpel  or  draw- 
ing blood.  Some  practitioners  attracted  a  considerable  clientele  and 
established  lucrative  practices.  Travel  agents  in  the  United  States 
credited  these  " surgeons"  with  generating  travel  to  the  Philippines. 

Although  medical  treatment  had  improved  and  services  had  ex- 
panded, pervasive  poverty  and  lack  of  access  to  family  planning 
detracted  from  the  general  health  of  the  Philippine  people.  In  1990 
approximately  50  percent  of  the  population  was  listed  below  the 
poverty  line  (down  from  59  percent  in  1985).  A  high  rate  of  child- 
birth tended  both  to  deplete  family  resources  and  to  be  injurious 
to  the  health  of  the  mother.  The  main  general  health  hazards  were 
pulmonary,  cardiovascular,  and  gastrointestinal  disorders. 

The  Philippines  had  a  social  security  system,  including  medi- 
care, that  provided  wide  coverage  of  the  regularly  employed  ur- 
ban workers.  It  offered  a  partial  shield  against  disaster,  but  was 
limited  both  by  the  generally  low  level  of  incomes,  which  reduced 
benefits,  and  by  the  exclusion  of  most  workers  in  agriculture.  In 
April  1989,  out  of  more  than  22  million  employed  individuals,  a 
little  more  than  10.5  million  were  covered  by  social  security.  In 
health  care  and  social  security,  as  with  other  services,  the  Philip- 
pines entered  the  1990s  as  a  modernizing  society  struggling  with 
limited  success  against  heavy  odds  to  apply  scarce  financial  resources 
to  provide  its  people  with  a  better  life. 

*    *  * 

One  of  the  best  recent  books  synthesizing  the  social  and  geo- 
graphic aspects  of  the  Philippines  is  Jim  Richardson's  The  Philip- 
pines. Robert  Youngblood's  Marcos  Against  the  Church  gives  an 
excellent  overview  of  contentious  issues  between  church  and  govern- 
ment in  the  Marcos  era  and  beyond.  Religion,  Politics  and  Rationali- 
ty in  a  Philippine  Community,  by  Raul  Pertierra,  is  an  insightful 
portrayal  of  socio-religious  interaction  on  the  barangay  level.  Ken- 
neth Bauzon's  Liberalism  and  the  Quest  for  Islamic  Identity  in  the  Philip- 
pines clarifies  the  basic  difference  in  political  thinking  between 
Muslim  and  Christian,  and  W.K.  Che  Man's  Muslim  Separatism 
is  an  excellent  work  on  that  subject. 

Language  Policy  Formulation,  Programming,  Implementation,  and  Evalu- 
ation in  Philippine  Education  (1565-1974),  by  Emma  Bernabe,  com- 
bines a  historical  approach  to  the  language  controversy  with 
contemporary  analysis,  and  The  Role  of  English  and  Its  Maintenance 
in  the  Philippines,  edited  by  Andrew  B.  Gonzales,  provides  a  detailed 
report  on  that  subject. 


115 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Philippine  Society  and  the  Individual:  Selected  Essays  of  Frank  Lynch 
1949-1976,  edited  by  Aram  A.  Yengoyan  and  Perla  Q.  Makil, 
offers  a  careful  treatment  of  Philippine  values.  James  F.  Eder's 
On  the  Road  to  Extinction:  Depopulation,  Deculturation,  and  Adaptive  Well- 
Being  Among  the  Batak  of  the  Philippines  is  a  provocative  book  on  the 
upland  tribes. 

For  information  on  the  physical  setting  of  the  Philippines,  the 
major  work  is  still  Frederick  L.  Wernstedt  and  J.  E.  Spencer's, 
The  Philippine  Island  World:  A  Physical,  Cultural,  and  Regional  Geography. 

The  following  periodicals  also  are  excellent  sources  of  informa- 
tion on  contemporary  Philippine  society:  The  Philippine  Sociological 
Review,  Solidarity,  Philippine  Quarterly  of  Culture  and  Society,  Philippine 
Studies,  and  Pilipinas.  (For  further  information  and  complete  cita- 
tions, see  Bibliography.) 


116 


Modern  high-rise  buildings  of  Makati  business  district  overlook  residential 
area  of  Manila. 


THE  PHILIPPINE  ECONOMY  EXPERIENCED  considerable 
difficulty  in  the  1980s.  Real  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glos- 
sary) grew  at  an  annual  average  of  only  1.8  percent,  less  than  the 
2.5  percent  rate  of  population  increase.  The  US$668  GNP  per  cap- 
ita income  in  1990  was  below  the  1978  level,  and  approximately 
50  percent  of  the  population  lived  below  the  poverty  line.  The  1988 
unemployment  rate  of  8.3  percent  (12.3  percent  in  urban  areas) 
peaked  at  11.4  percent  in  early  1989,  and  the  underemployment 
rate,  particularly  acute  for  poor,  less-educated,  and  elderly  peo- 
ple, was  approximately  twice  that  of  unemployment.  In  1988  about 
470,000  Filipinos  left  the  country  to  work  abroad  in  contract  jobs 
or  as  merchant  seamen. 

The  economy  had  grown  at  a  relatively  high  average  annual  rate 
of  6.4  percent  during  the  1970s,  financed  in  large  part  by  foreign- 
currency  borrowing.  External  indebtedness  grew  from  US$2.3  bil- 
lion in  1970  to  US$24.4  billion  in  1983,  much  of  which  was  owed 
to  transnational  commercial  banks. 

In  the  early  1980s,  the  economy  began  to  run  into  difficulty  be- 
cause of  the  declining  world  market  for  Philippine  exports,  trou- 
ble in  borrowing  on  the  international  capital  market,  and  a  domestic 
financial  scandal.  The  problem  was  compounded  by  the  excesses 
of  President  Ferdinand  E.  Marcos' s  regime  and  the  bailing  out  by 
government-owned  financial  institutions  of  firms  encountering 
financial  difficulties  that  were  owned  by  those  close  to  the  presi- 
dent. In  1983  the  country  descended  into  a  political  and  economic 
crisis  in  the  aftermath  of  the  assassination  of  Marcos 's  chief  rival, 
former  Senator  Benigno  Aquino,  and  circumstances  had  not  im- 
proved when  Marcos  fled  the  country  in  February  1986. 

Economic  growth  revived  in  1986  under  the  new  president, 
Corazon  C.  Aquino,  reaching  6.7  percent  in  1988.  But  in  1988, 
the  economy  once  again  began  to  encounter  difficulties.  The  trade 
deficit  and  the  government  budget  deficit  were  of  particular  con- 
cern. In  1990  the  economy  continued  to  experience  difficulties,  a 
situation  exacerbated  by  several  natural  disasters,  and  growth 
declined  to  3  percent. 

The  structure  of  the  economy  evolved  slowly  over  time.  The 
agricultural  sector  in  1990  accounted  for  23  percent  of  GNP  and 
slightly  more  than  45  percent  of  the  work  force.  About  33  percent 
of  output  came  from  industry,  which  employed  about  15  percent 
of  the  work  force.  The  manufacturing  subsector  had  developed 


119 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

rapidly  during  the  1950s,  but  then  it  leveled  off  and  did  not  in- 
crease its  share  of  either  output  or  employment.  In  1990,  24  per- 
cent of  GNP  and  12  percent  of  employment  were  derived  from 
manufacturing.  The  services  sector,  a  residual  employer,  increased 
its  share  of  the  work  force  from  about  25  percent  in  1960  to  40 
percent  in  1990.  In  1990  services  accounted  for  44  percent  of  GNP. 

The  Philippines  is  rich  in  natural  resources.  Land  planted  in  rice 
and  corn  accounted  for  about  50  percent  of  the  4.5  million  hect- 
ares of  field  crops  in  1990.  Another  25  percent  of  the  cultivated 
area  was  taken  up  by  coconuts,  a  major  export  crop.  Sugarcane, 
pineapples,  and  Cavendish  bananas  also  were  important  earners 
of  foreign  exchange.  Forest  reserves,  however,  once  plentiful, 
have  been  extensively  exploited  to  the  point  of  serious  depletion. 
Archipelagic  Philippines  is  surrounded  by  a  vast  aquatic  resource 
base.  In  1990  fish  and  other  seafood  from  the  surrounding  seas 
provided  more  than  half  the  protein  consumed  by  the  average 
Filipino  household.  The  Philippines  also  had  vast  mineral  deposits. 
In  1988  the  country  was  the  world's  tenth  largest  producer  of  cop- 
per, the  sixth  largest  producer  of  chromium,  and  the  ninth  largest 
producer  of  gold.  The  country's  only  nickel  mining  company  was 
expected  to  resume  operation  in  1991  and  again  produce  large  quan- 
tities of  that  metal.  Petroleum  exploration  was  ongoing,  but  dis- 
coveries were  minimal,  and  the  country  was  required  to  import 
most  of  its  oil. 

Prior  to  1970,  Philippine  exports  consisted  mainly  of  agricul- 
tural or  mineral  products  in  raw  or  minimally  processed  form.  In 
the  1970s,  the  country  began  to  export  manufactured  commodi- 
ties, especially  garments  and  electronic  components,  and  the  prices 
of  some  traditional  exports  declined.  By  1988  nontraditional  ex- 
ports comprised  75  percent  of  the  total  value  of  goods  shipped 
abroad. 

Political  Economy  of  Development 

Economic  Development  until  1970 

In  the  mid-nineteenth  century,  a  Filipino  landowning  elite  de- 
veloped on  the  basis  of  the  export  of  abaca  (Manila  hemp),  sugar, 
and  other  agricultural  products.  At  the  onset  of  the  United  States 
power  in  the  Philippines  in  1898-99,  this  planter  group  was  culti- 
vated as  part  of  the  United  States  military  and  political  pacifica- 
tion program.  The  democratic  process  imposed  on  the  Philippines 
during  the  American  colonial  period  remained  under  the  control 
of  this  elite.  Access  to  political  power  required  an  economic  basis 
and,  in  turn,  provided  the  means  for  enhancing  economic  power. 


120 


The  Economy 


The  landowning  class  was  able  to  use  its  privileged  position  directly 
to  further  its  economic  interests  as  well  as  to  secure  a  flow  of 
resources  to  garner  political  support  and  ensure  its  position  as  the 
political  elite.  Otherwise,  the  state  played  a  minimal  role  in  the 
economy.  Hence  no  powerful  bureaucratic  group  arose  that  could 
pursue  a  development  program  independent  of  the  wishes  of  the 
landowning  class.  This  situation  remained  basically  unchanged  in 
the  early  1990s. 

At  the  time  of  independence  in  1946,  and  in  the  aftermath  of 
a  destructive  wartime  occupation  by  Japan,  Philippine  reliance  on 
the  United  States  was  even  more  apparent  (see  Economic  Rela- 
tions with  the  United  States  after  Independence,  ch.  1).  To  gain 
access  to  reconstruction  assistance  from  the  United  States,  the 
Philippines  agreed  to  maintain  its  prewar  exchange  rate  with  the 
United  States  dollar  and  not  to  restrict  imports  from  the  United 
States.  For  a  time  the  aid  inflow  from  the  United  States  offset  the 
negative  balance  of  trade,  but  by  1949,  the  economy  had  entered 
a  crisis.  The  Philippine  government  responded  by  instituting  im- 
port and  foreign-exchange  controls  that  lasted  until  the  early  1960s. 

Import  restrictions  stimulated  the  manufacturing  sector. 
Manufacturing  net  domestic  product  (NDP — see  Glossary)  at  first 
grew  rapidly,  averaging  12  percent  growth  per  annum  in  real  terms 
during  the  first  half  of  the  1950s.  NDP  growth  contributed  to  an 
average  7.7  percent  growth  in  the  GNP,  a  higher  rate  than  in  any 
subsequent  five-year  period.  The  Philippines  had  entered  an  import- 
substitution  stage  of  industrialization,  largely  as  the  unintended 
consequence  of  a  policy  response  to  balance-of-payments  pressures. 
In  the  second  half  of  the  1950s,  the  growth  rate  of  manufacturing 
fell  by  about  a  third  to  an  average  of  7.7  percent,  and  real  GNP 
growth  was  down  to  4.9  percent.  Import  demand  outpaced  exports, 
and  the  allocation  of  foreign  exchange  was  subject  to  corruption. 
Pressure  mounted  for  a  change  of  policy. 

In  1962  the  government  devalued  the  peso  (for  value  of  the 
peso — see  Glossary)  and  abolished  import  controls  and  exchange 
licensing.  The  peso  fell  by  half  to  P3.90  to  the  dollar.  Although 
traditional  exports  of  agricultural  and  mineral  products  increased, 
the  growth  rate  of  manufacturing  declined  even  further.  Substan- 
tial tariffs  had  been  put  in  place  in  the  late  1950s,  but  they  appar- 
ently provided  insufficient  protection.  Pressure  from  industrialists, 
combined  with  renewed  balance  of  payments  problems,  resulted 
in  the  reimposition  of  exchange  controls  in  1968.  Manufacturing 
recovered  slightly,  growing  an  average  of  6.1  percent  per  year  in 
the  second  half  of  the  decade.  However,  the  sector  was  no  longer 
the  engine  of  development  that  it  had  been  in  the  early  1950s. 


121 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Overall  real  GNP  growth  was  mediocre,  averaging  somewhat  un- 
der 5  percent  in  the  second  half  of  decade;  growth  of  agriculture 
was  more  than  a  percentage  point  lower  (see  table  2,  Appendix). 
The  limited  impact  of  manufacturing  also  affected  employment. 
The  sector's  share  of  the  employed  labor  force,  which  had  risen 
rapidly  during  the  1950s  to  over  12  percent,  plateaued  (see  table 
3,  Appendix).  Import  substitution  had  run  its  course. 

To  stimulate  industrialization,  technocrats  within  the  govern- 
ment worked  to  rationalize  and  improve  incentive  structures,  to 
move  the  country  away  from  import  substitution,  and  to  reduce 
tariffs.  Movements  to  reduce  tariffs,  however,  met  stiff  resistance 
from  industrialists,  and  government  efforts  to  liberalize  the  econ- 
omy and  emphasize  export-led  industrialization  (see  Glossary)  were 
largely  unsuccessful. 

Martial  Law  and  Its  Aftermath,  1972-86 

The  Philippines  found  itself  in  an  economic  crisis  in  early  1970, 
in  large  part  the  consequence  of  the  profligate  spending  of  govern- 
ment funds  by  President  Marcos  in  his  reelection  bid.  The  govern- 
ment, unable  to  meet  payments  on  its  US$2.3  billion  international 
debt,  worked  out  a  US$27.5  million  standby  credit  arrangement 
with  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary)  that 
involved  renegotiating  the  country's  external  debt  and  devaluing 
the  Philippine  currency  to  P6.40  to  the  United  States  dollar.  The 
government,  unwilling  and  unable  to  take  the  necessary  steps  to 
deal  with  economic  difficulties  on  its  own,  submitted  to  the  exter- 
nal dictates  of  the  IMF.  It  was  a  pattern  that  would  be  repeated 
with  increasing  frequency  in  the  next  twenty  years. 

In  September  1972,  Marcos  declared  martial  law,  claiming  that 
the  country  was  faced  with  revolutions  from  both  the  left  and  the 
right  (see  Proclamation  1081  and  Martial  Law,  ch.  1).  He  gathered 
around  him  a  group  of  businessmen,  used  presidential  decrees  and 
letters  of  instruction  to  provide  them  with  monopoly  positions  with- 
in the  economy,  and  began  channeling  resources  to  himself  and 
his  associates,  instituting  what  came  to  be  called  "crony  capital- 
ism." By  the  time  Marcos  fled  the  Philippines  in  February  1986, 
monopolization  and  corruption  had  severely  crippled  the  economy. 

In  the  beginning,  this  tendency  was  not  so  obvious.  Marcos 's 
efforts  to  create  a  "New  Society"  were  supported  widely  by  the 
business  community,  both  Filipino  and  foreign,  by  Washington, 
and,  de  facto,  by  the  multilateral  institutions.  Foreign  investment 
was  encouraged:  an  export-processing  zone  was  opened,  a  range 
of  additional  investment  incentives  was  created,  and  the  Philip- 
pines projected  itself  onto  the  world  economy  as  a  country  of  low 


122 


Ayala  Avenue,  main  thoroughfare  of  the  Makati  business  district 
Courtesy  Philippine  Tourist  Research  and  Planning  Organization 

wages  and  industrial  peace.  The  inflow  of  international  capital  in- 
creased dramatically. 

A  general  rise  in  world  raw  material  prices  in  the  early  1970s 
helped  boost  the  performance  of  the  economy;  real  GNP  grew  at 
an  average  of  almost  7  percent  per  year  in  the  five  years  after  the 
declaration  of  martial  law,  as  compared  with  approximately  5  per- 
cent annually  in  the  five  preceding  years.  Agriculture  performed 
better  that  it  did  in  the  1960s.  New  rice  technologies  introduced 
in  the  late  1960s  were  widely  adopted.  Manufacturing  was  able 
to  maintain  the  6  percent  growth  rate  it  achieved  in  the  late  1960s, 
a  rate,  however,  that  was  below  that  of  the  economy  as  a  whole. 
Manufactured  exports,  on  the  other  hand,  did  quite  well,  grow- 
ing at  a  rate  twice  that  of  the  country's  traditional  agricultural  ex- 
ports. The  public  sector  played  a  much  larger  role  in  the  1970s, 
with  the  extent  of  government  expenditures  in  GNP  rising  by  40 
percent  in  the  decade  after  1972.  To  finance  the  boom,  the  govern- 
ment resorted  extensively  to  international  debt,  hence  the  charac- 
terization of  the  economy  of  the  Marcos  era  as  "debt  driven." 

In  the  latter  half  of  the  1970s,  heavy  borrowing  from  transna- 
tional commercial  banks,  multilateral  organizations,  and  the  United 
States  and  other  countries  masked  problems  that  had  begun  to 
appear  on  the  economic  horizon  with  the  slowdown  of  the  world 


123 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

economy.  By  1976  the  Philippines  was  among  the  top  100  recipients 
of  loans  from  the  World  Bank  and  was  considered  a  "country  of 
concentration."  Its  balance  of  payments  problem  was  solved  and 
growth  facilitated,  at  least  temporarily,  but  at  the  cost  of  having 
to  service  an  external  debt  that  rose  from  US$2.3  billion  in  1970 
to  more  than  US$17.2  billion  in  1980. 

There  were  internal  problems  as  well,  particularly  in  respect  to 
the  increasingly  visible  mismanagement  of  crony  enterprises.  A 
financial  scandal  in  January  1981  in  which  a  businessman  fled  the 
country  with  debts  of  an  estimated  P700  million  required  massive 
amounts  of  emergency  loans  from  the  Central  Bank  of  the  Philip- 
pines and  other  government-owned  financial  institutions  to  some 
eighty  firms.  The  growth  rate  of  GNP  fell  dramatically,  and  from 
then  the  economic  ills  of  the  Philippines  proliferated.  In  1980  there 
had  been  an  abrupt  change  in  economic  policy,  related  to  the  chang- 
ing world  economy  and  deteriorating  internal  conditions.  The 
Philippine  government  had  agreed  to  reduce  the  average  level  and 
dispersion  of  tariff  rates  and  to  eliminate  most  quantitative  re- 
strictions on  trade,  in  exchange  for  a  US$200  million  structural 
adjustment  loan  (see  Glossary)  from  the  World  Bank  (see  Glos- 
sary). Whatever  the  merits  of  the  policy  shift,  the  timing  was  mis- 
erable. Exports  did  not  increase  substantially,  but  imports  increased 
dramatically.  The  result  was  growing  debt-service  payments;  emer- 
gency loans  were  forthcoming,  but  the  hemorrhaging  did  not  cease. 

It  was  into  this  situation  that  President  Marcos 's  foremost  crit- 
ic, former  Senator  Benigno  Aquino,  came  when  he  returned  from 
exile  in  August  1983  and  was  assassinated.  The  assassination  threw 
the  country  into  an  economic  and  political  crisis  that  resulted  even- 
tually, in  February  1986,  in  the  ending  of  Marcos 's  twenty-one- 
year  rule  and  his  flight  from  the  Philippines.  In  the  meantime,  debt 
repayment  had  ceased.  Real  GNP  fell  more  than  11  percent  be- 
fore turning  back  up  in  1986,  and  real  GNP  per  capita  fell  17  per- 
cent from  its  high  point  in  1981 .  In  1990  per  capita  real  GNP  was 
still  7  percent  below  the  1981  level. 

The  Aquino  Government 

In  1986  Corazon  Aquino  focused  her  presidential  campaign  on 
the  misdeeds  of  Marcos  and  his  cronies.  The  economic  correctives 
that  she  proposed  emphasized  a  central  role  for  private  enterprise 
and  the  moral  imperative  of  reaching  out  to  the  poor  and  meeting 
their  needs.  Reducing  unemployment,  encouraging  small-scale  en- 
terprise, and  developing  the  neglected  rural  areas  were  the  themes. 

Aquino  entered  the  presidency  with  a  mandate  to  undertake  a 
new  direction  in  economic  policy.  Her  initial  cabinet  contained 


124 


The  Economy 


individuals  from  across  the  political  spectrum.  Over  time,  however, 
the  cabinet  became  increasingly  homogeneous,  particularly  with 
respect  to  economic  perspective,  reflecting  the  strong  influence  of 
the  powerful  business  community  and  international  creditors.  The 
businesspeople  and  technocrats  who  directed  the  Central  Bank  and 
headed  the  departments  of  finance  and  trade  and  industry  became 
the  decisive  voices  in  economic  decision  making.  Foreign  policy 
also  reflected  this  power  relationship,  focusing  on  attracting  more 
foreign  loans,  aid,  trade,  investment,  and  tourists  (see  Foreign  Af- 
fairs, ch.  4). 

It  soon  became  clear  that  the  plight  of  the  people  had  been  subor- 
dinated largely  to  the  requirements  of  private  enterprise  and  the 
world  economy.  As  the  president  noted  in  her  state-of-the-nation 
address  in  June  1989,  the  poor  had  not  benefited  from  the  eco- 
nomic recovery  that  had  taken  place  since  1986.  The  gap  between 
the  rich  and  poor  had  widened,  and  the  proportion  of  malnourished 
preschool  children  had  grown. 

The  most  pressing  problem  in  the  Philippine  international  po- 
litical economy  at  the  time  Aquino  took  office  was  the  country's 
US$28  billion  external  debt.  It  was  also  one  of  the  most  vexatious 
issues  in  her  administration.  Economists  within  the  economic  plan- 
ning agency,  the  National  Economic  and  Development  Authority 
(NEDA),  argued  that  economic  recovery  would  be  difficult,  if  not 
impossible,  to  achieve  in  a  relatively  short  period  if  the  country 
did  not  reduce  the  size  of  the  resource  outflows  associated  with  its 
external  debt.  Large  debt-service  payments  and  moderate  growth 
(on  the  order  of  6.5  percent  per  year)  were  thought  to  be  incom- 
patible. A  two-year  moratorium  on  debt  servicing  and  selective 
repudiation  of  loans  where  fraud  or  corruption  could  be  shown 
were  recommended.  Business-oriented  groups  and  their  represen- 
tatives in  the  president's  cabinet  vehemently  objected  to  taking 
unilateral  action  on  the  debt,  arguing  that  it  was  essential  that  the 
Philippines  not  break  with  its  major  creditors  in  the  international 
community.  Ultimately,  the  president  rejected  repudiation;  the 
Philippines  would  honor  all  its  debts. 

Domestically,  land  reform  was  a  highly  contentious  issue,  in- 
volving economics  as  well  as  equity.  NEDA  economists  argued  that 
broad-based  spending  increases  were  necessary  to  get  the  econo- 
my going  again;  more  purchasing  power  had  to  be  put  in  the  hands 
of  the  masses.  Achieving  this  objective  required  a  redistribution 
of  wealth  downward,  primarily  through  land  reform.  Given  Aqui- 
no's campaign  promises,  there  were  high  expectations  that  a 
meaningful  program  would  be  implemented.  Prior  to  the  opening 
session  of  the  first  Congress  under  the  country's  1987  constitution, 


125 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

the  president  had  the  power  and  the  opportunity  to  proclaim  a  sub- 
stantive land  reform  program  (see  Constitutional  Framework,  ch. 
4).  Waiting  until  the  last  moment  before  making  an  announcement, 
she  chose  to  provide  only  a  broad  framework.  Specifics  were  left 
to  the  new  Congress,  which  she  knew  was  heavily  represented  by 
landowning  interests.  The  result — a  foregone  conclusion — was  the 
enactment  of  a  weak,  loophole-ridden  piece  of  legislation  (see  Un- 
solved Political  Problems,  ch.  4). 

The  most  immediate  task  for  Aquino's  economic  advisers  was 
to  get  the  economy  moving,  and  a  turn  around  was  achieved  in 
1986.  Economic  growth  was  low  (1.9  percent),  but  it  was  positive. 
For  the  next  two  years,  growth  was  more  respectable — 5.9  and  6.7 
percent,  respectively.  In  1986  and  1987,  consumption  led  the  growth 
process,  but  then  investment  began  to  increase.  In  1985  industrial 
capacity  utilization  had  been  as  low  as  40  percent,  but  by  mid- 1988 
industries  were  working  at  near  full  capacity.  Investment  in  dura- 
ble goods  grew  almost  30  percent  in  both  1988  and  1989,  reflect- 
ing the  buoyant  atmosphere.  The  international  community  was 
supportive.  Like  domestic  investment,  foreign  investment  did  not 
respond  immediately  after  Aquino  took  office,  but  in  1987  it  be- 
gan to  pick  up.  The  economy  also  was  helped  by  foreign  aid.  The 
1989  and  1991  meetings  of  the  aid  plan  called  the  Multilateral  Aid 
Initiative,  also  known  as  the  Philippine  Assistance  Plan,  a  multi- 
national initiative  to  provide  assistance  to  the  Philippines,  pledged 
a  total  of  US$6.7  billion. 

Economic  successes,  however,  generated  their  own  problems. 
The  trade  deficit  rose  rapidly,  as  both  consumers  and  investors  at- 
tempted to  regain  what  had  been  lost  in  the  depressed  atmosphere 
of  the  1983-85  period.  Although  debt-service  payments  on  exter- 
nal debt  were  declining  as  a  proportion  of  the  country's  exports, 
they  remained  above  25  percent.  And  the  government  budget  deficit 
ballooned,  hitting  5.2  percent  of  GNP  in  1990. 

The  1988  GNP  grew  6.7  percent,  slightly  more  than  the  govern- 
ment plan  target.  Growth  fell  off  to  5.7  percent  in  1989,  then  plum- 
meted in  1990  to  just  over  3  percent.  Many  factors  contributed 
to  the  1990  decline.  The  country  was  subjected  to  a  prolonged 
drought,  which  resulted  in  the  increased  need  to  import  rice.  In 
July  a  major  earthquake  hit  Northern  Luzon,  causing  extensive 
destruction,  and  in  November  a  typhoon  did  considerable  damage 
in  the  Visayas.  There  were  other,  more  human,  troubles  also.  The 
country  was  attempting  to  regain  a  semblance  of  order  in  the  af- 
termath of  the  December  1989  coup  attempt.  Brownouts  became 
a  daily  occurrence,  as  the  government  struggled  to  overcome  the 
deficient  power- generating  capacity  in  the  Luzon  grid.  In  the  worst 


126 


The  Economy 


period,  power- generating  capacity  was  below  peak  demand  by  more 
than  300  megawatts,  and  the  deficiency  resulted  in  outages  of  four 
hours  and  more  (see  Energy,  this  ch.).  Residents  of  Manila  suffered 
from  a  lack  of  public  transportation  and  clogged  and  overcrowded 
roadways;  woefully  inadequate  garbage  removal;  and,  in  general, 
a  declining  city  infrastructure.  Industrial  growth  fell  from  6.9  per- 
cent in  1989  to  1.9  percent  in  1990;  growth  investment  in  1990 
in  both  fixed  capital  and  durable  equipment  declined  by  half  when 
compared  with  the  previous  year.  Government  construction,  which 
grew  at  10  percent  in  1989,  declined  by  1  percent  in  1990. 

The  Aquino  administration  appeared  to  be  unable  to  work  with 
the  Congress  to  enact  an  economic  package  to  overcome  the  coun- 
try's economic  difficulties.  In  July,  as  the  government  deficit  soared, 
Secretary  of  Finance  Jesus  Estanislao  introduced  a  package  of  new 
tax  measures.  Then  in  October,  stalemated  with  Congress,  Aqui- 
no agreed  to  seek  a  reduction  in  the  budget  gap  without  new  tax- 
es. Congress  attacked  the  agreement  as  being  an  onerous  imposition 
on  an  economy  in  crisis:  growth  would  be  stifled  and  the  poor  would 
be  impacted  negatively.  The  willingness  of  the  Congress  to  pass 
the  tax  package  called  for  in  the  IMF  agreement  was,  however, 
in  doubt.  In  1990  Congress  placed  a  9  percent  levy  on  all  imports 
to  provide  revenues  until  an  agreement  could  be  reached  with  the 
administration  on  a  tax  package.  In  February  1991,  however,  it 
was  learned  that  in  its  agreement  with  the  IMF  for  new  standby 
credits,  the  government  had  promised  that  it  would  indeed  imple- 
ment new  taxes. 

Accusations  were  widespread  in  Manila's  press  about  the  1990-91 
impasse.  On  the  one  hand,  it  was  claimed  that  Aquino  and  her 
advisers  had  no  economic  plan;  on  the  other  hand,  the  Congress 
was  said  to  be  unwilling  to  work  with  the  president.  Traditional 
political  patterns  appeared  to  be  reasserting  themselves,  and  the 
technocrats  had  little  ultimate  influence.  One  study  of  the  first  Con- 
gress elected  under  the  1987  constitution  showed  that  only  31  out 
of  200  members  of  the  House  of  Representatives  were  not  previ- 
ously elected  officials  or  directly  related  to  the  leader  of  a  tradi- 
tional political  clan.  Business  interests  were  also  powerful,  directly 
influencing  the  president  to  overrule  already  established  policies, 
as  in  the  1990  program  to  simplify  the  tariff  structure.  Business 
and  politics,  however,  have  always  been  deeply  interwoven  in  the 
Philippines;  crony  capitalism  was  not  a  deviant  model,  but  rather 
the  logical  extreme  of  a  traditional  pattern.  As  the  Philippines  en- 
tered the  1990s,  the  crucial  question  for  the  economy  was  whether 
the  elite  would  limit  its  political  activities  to  jockeying  for  economic 


127 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

advantage  or  would  forge  its  economic  and  political  interests  in 
a  fashion  that  would  create  a  dynamic  economy. 

Economic  Planning  and  Policy 

The  Philippines  has  traditionally  had  a  private  enterprise  econ- 
omy both  in  policy  and  in  practice.  The  government  intervened 
primarily  through  fiscal  and  monetary  policy  and  in  the  exercise 
of  its  regulatory  authority.  Although  expansion  of  public  sector  en- 
terprises occurred  during  the  Marcos  presidency,  direct  state  par- 
ticipation in  economic  activity  has  generally  been  limited.  The 
Aquino  government  set  a  major  policy  initiative  of  consolidating 
and  privatizing  government-owned  and  government-controlled 
firms.  Economic  planning  was  limited  largely  to  establishing  tar- 
gets for  economic  growth  and  other  macroeconomic  goals,  engag- 
ing in  project  planning  and  implementation,  and  advising  the 
government  in  the  use  of  capital  funds  for  development  projects. 

Development  Planning 

The  responsibility  for  economic  planning  was  vested  in  the  Na- 
tional Economic  and  Development  Authority.  Created  in  January 
1973,  the  authority  assumed  the  mandate  both  for  macroeconomic 
planning  that  had  been  undertaken  by  its  predecessor  organiza- 
tion, the  National  Economic  Council,  and  project  planning  and 
implementation,  previously  undertaken  by  the  Presidential  Eco- 
nomic Staff.  National  Economic  and  Development  Authority  plans 
calling  for  the  expansion  of  employment,  maximization  of  growth, 
attainment  of  fiscal  responsibility  and  monetary  stability,  provi- 
sion of  social  services,  and  equitable  distribution  of  income  were 
produced  by  the  Marcos  administration  for  1974-77,  1978-82,  and 
1983-88,  and  by  the  Aquino  administration  for  1987-92.  Growth 
was  encouraged  largely  through  the  provision  of  infrastructure  and 
incentives  for  investment  by  private  capital.  Equity,  a  derivative 
goal,  was  to  be  achieved  as  the  result  of  a  dynamic  economic  ex- 
pansion within  an  appropriate  policy  environment  that  emphasized 
labor-intensive  production. 

The  National  Economic  and  Development  Authority  Medium- 
Term  Development  Plan,  1987-92  reflected  Aquino's  campaign 
themes:  elimination  of  structures  of  privilege  and  monopolization 
of  the  economy;  decentralization  of  power  and  decision  making; 
and  reduction  of  unemployment  and  mass  poverty,  particularly  in 
rural  areas.  The  private  sector  was  described  as  both  the  "initia- 
tor" and  "prime  mover"  of  the  country's  development;  hence, 
the  government  was  "to  encourage  and  support  private  initiative," 
and  state  participation  in  the  economy  was  to  be  minimized  and 


128 


The  Economy 


decentralized.  Goals  included  alleviation  of  poverty,  generation  of 
more  productive  employment,  promotion  of  equity  and  social 
justice,  and  attainment  of  sustainable  economic  growth.  Goals  were 
to  be  achieved  through  agrarian  reforms;  strengthening  the  col- 
lective bargaining  process;  undertaking  rural,  labor-intensive  in- 
frastructure projects;  providing  social  services;  and  expanding 
education  and  skill  training.  Nevertheless,  as  with  previous  plans, 
the  goals  and  objectives  were  to  be  realized,  trickle-down  fashion, 
as  the  consequence  of  achieving  a  sustainable  economic  growth, 
albeit  a  growth  more  focused  on  the  agricultural  sector. 

The  plan  also  involved  implementing  more  appropriate,  market- 
oriented  fiscal  and  monetary  polices,  achieving  a  more  liberal  trade 
policy  based  on  comparative  advantage,  and  improving  the  effi- 
ciency and  effectiveness  of  the  civil  service,  as  well  as  better  en- 
forcement of  government  laws  and  regulations.  Proper  management 
of  the  country's  external  debt  to  allow  an  acceptable  rate  of  growth 
and  the  establishment  of  a  "pragmatic,"  development-oriented  for- 
eign policy  were  extremely  important. 

Economic  performance  fell  far  short  of  plan  targets.  For  exam- 
ple, the  real  GNP  growth  rate  from  1987  to  1990  averaged  25  per- 
cent less  than  the  targeted  rate,  the  growth  rate  of  real  exports  was 
one-third  less,  and  the  growth  rate  of  real  imports  was  well  over 
double.  The  targets,  however,  did  provide  a  basis  for  discussion 
of  consistency  of  official  statements  and  whether  the  plan  growth 
rates  were  compatible  with  the  maintenance  of  external  debt- 
repayment  obligations.  The  plan  also  set  priorities.  Both  Aquino's 
campaign  pronouncements  and  the  policies  embodied  in  the  plan- 
ning document  emphasized  policies  that  would  favorably  affect  the 
poor  and  the  rural  sector.  But,  because  of  dissension  within  the 
cabinet,  conflicts  with  Congress,  and  presidential  indecisiveness, 
policies  such  as  land  and  tax  reform  either  were  not  implemented 
or  were  implemented  in  an  impaired  fashion.  In  addition,  the 
Philippines  curtailed  resources  available  for  development  projects 
and  the  provision  of  government  services  in  order  to  maintain  good 
relations  with  international  creditors. 

The  Philippine  government  has  undertaken  to  provide  incen- 
tives to  firms,  both  domestic  and  foreign,  to  invest  in  priority  areas 
of  the  economy  since  the  early  1950s.  In  1967  an  Investment  In- 
centives Act,  administered  by  a  Board  of  Investments  (BOI),  was 
passed  to  encourage  and  direct  investment  more  systematically. 
Three  years  later,  an  Export  Incentives  Act  was  passed,  further- 
ing the  effort  to  move  the  economy  beyond  import-substitution 
manufacturing.  The  incentive  structure  in  the  late  1960s  and  1970s 
was  criticized  for  favoring  capital-intensive  investment  as  against 


129 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

investments  in  agriculture  and  export  industries,  as  well  as  not  being 
sufficiently  large.  Export  incentives  were  insufficient  to  overcome 
other  biases  against  exports  embodied  in  the  structure  of  tariff  pro- 
tection and  the  overvaluation  of  the  peso. 

The  investment  incentive  system  was  revised  in  1 983 ,  and  again 
in  1987,  with  the  goal  of  rewarding  performance,  particularly  ex- 
porting and  labor-intensive  production.  As  a  result  of  objections 
made  by  the  United  States  and  other  industrial  nations  to  export- 
subsidy  provisions  contained  in  the  1983  Investment  Code,  much 
of  the  specific  assistance  to  exporters  was  removed  in  the  1987  ver- 
sion. The  1987  Investment  Code  delegates  considerable  discretion- 
ary power  over  foreign  investment  to  the  government  Board  of 
Investments  when  foreign  participation  in  an  enterprise  exceeds 
40  percent.  Legislation  under  consideration  by  the  Philippine  Con- 
gress in  early  1991  would  limit  this  authority.  Under  the  new 
proposal,  foreign  participation  exceeding  40  percent  would  be  al- 
lowed in  any  area  not  covered  by  a  specified  "negative  list." 

Fiscal  Policy 

Historically,  the  government  has  taken  a  rather  conservative 
stance  on  fiscal  activities.  Until  the  1970s,  national  government 
expenditures  and  taxation  generally  were  each  less  than  10  per- 
cent of  GNP.  (Total  expenditures  of  provincial,  city,  and  municipal 
governments  were  small,  between  5  and  10  percent  of  national 
government  expenditures  in  the  1980s.)  Under  the  Marcos  regime, 
national  government  activity  increased  to  between  1 5  and  1 7  per- 
cent of  GNP,  largely  because  of  increased  capital  expenditures  and, 
later,  growing  debt-service  payments.  In  1987  and  1988,  the  ratio 
of  government  expenditure  to  GNP  rose  above  20  percent  (see  ta- 
ble 4,  Appendix).  Tax  revenue,  however,  remained  relatively  sta- 
ble, seldom  rising  above  12  percent  of  GNP  (see  table  5,  Appendix). 
Chronic  government  budget  deficits  were  covered  by  internation- 
al borrowing  during  the  Marcos  era  and  mainly  by  domestic  bor- 
rowing during  the  Aquino  administration.  Both  approaches 
contributed  to  the  vicious  circle  of  deficits  generating  the  need  for 
borrowing,  and  the  debt  service  on  those  loans  creating  greater 
deficits  and  the  need  to  borrow  even  more.  At  5.2  percent  of  GNP, 
the  1990  government  deficit  was  a  major  consideration  in  the  1991 
standby  agreement  between  Manila  and  the  IMF. 

Over  time,  the  apportionment  of  government  spending  has 
changed  considerably  (see  table  6,  Appendix).  In  1989  the  largest 
portion  of  the  national  government  budget  (43.9  percent)  went  for 
debt  servicing.  Most  of  the  rest  covered  economic  services  and  so- 
cial services,  including  education.  Only  9.1  percent  of  the  budget 


130 


The  Economy 


was  allocated  for  defense.  The  Philippines  devoted  a  smaller  propor- 
tion of  GNP  to  defense  than  did  any  other  country  in  Southeast 
Asia. 

The  Aquino  government  formulated  a  tax  reform  program  in 
1986  that  contained  some  thirty  new  measures.  Most  export  taxes 
were  eliminated;  income  taxes  were  simplified  and  made  more 
progressive;  the  investment  incentives  system  was  revised;  luxury 
taxes  were  imposed;  and,  beginning  in  1988,  a  variety  of  sales  taxes 
were  replaced  by  a  10  percent  value-added  tax — the  central  fea- 
ture of  the  administration's  tax  reform  effort.  Some  administra- 
tive improvements  also  were  made.  The  changes,  however,  did  not 
effect  an  appreciable  rise  in  the  tax  revenue  as  a  proportion  of  GNP. 

Problems  with  the  Philippine  tax  system  appear  to  have  more 
to  do  with  collections  than  with  the  rates.  Estimates  of  individual 
income  tax  compliance  in  the  late  1980s  ranged  between  13  and 
27  percent.  Assessments  of  the  magnitude  of  tax  evasion  by  cor- 
porate income  tax  payers  in  1984  and  1985  varied  from  as  low  as 
PI. 7  billion  to  as  high  as  PI 3  billion.  The  latter  figure  was  based 
on  the  fact  that  only  38  percent  of  registered  firms  in  the  country 
actually  filed  a  tax  return  in  1985.  Although  collections  in  1989 
were  P10. 1  billion,  a  70  percent  increase  over  1988,  they  remained 
PI  .4  billion  below  expectations.  Tax  evasion  was  compounded  by 
mismanagement  and  corruption.  A  1987  government  study  deter- 
mined that  25  percent  of  the  national  budget  was  lost  to  graft  and 
corruption. 

Low  collection  rates  also  reinforced  the  regressive  structure  of 
the  tax  system.  The  World  Bank  calculated  that  effective  tax  rates 
(taxes  paid  as  a  proportion  of  income)  of  low-income  families  were 
about  50  percent  greater  than  those  of  high-income  families  in  the 
mid-1980s.  Middle-income  families  paid  the  largest  percentage. 
This  situation  was  caused  in  part  by  the  government's  heavy  reli- 
ance on  indirect  taxes.  Individual  income  taxes  accounted  for  only 
8.9  percent  of  tax  collections  in  1989,  and  corporate  income  taxes 
were  only  18.5  percent.  Taxes  on  goods  and  services  and  duties 
on  international  transactions  made  up  70  percent  of  tax  revenue 
in  1989,  about  the  same  as  in  1960. 

The  consolidated  public  sector  deficit — the  combined  deficit  of 
national  government,  local  government,  and  public-sector  enter- 
prise budgets — which  had  been  greatiy  reduced  in  the  first  two  years 
of  the  Aquino  administration  rose  to  5.2  of  GNP  by  the  end  of 
1990.  In  June  1990,  the  government  proposed  a  comprehensive 
new  tax  reform  package  in  an  attempt  to  control  the  public  sector 
deficit.  About  that  time,  the  IMF,  World  Bank,  and  Japanese 
government  froze  loan  disbursements  because  the  Philippines  was 


131 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


not  complying  with  targets  in  the  standby  agreement  with  the  IMF. 
As  a  result  of  the  1990-91  Persian  Gulf  crisis,  petroleum  prices 
increased;  the  Oil  Price  Stabilization  Fund  put  an  additional  strain 
on  the  budget.  The  sudden  cessation  of  dollar  remittances  from 
contract  workers  in  Kuwait  and  Iraq  and  increased  interest  rates 
on  domestic  debt  of  the  government  also  contributed  to  the  deficit. 

Negotiations  between  the  Aquino  administration  and  Congress 
on  the  administration's  tax  proposals  fell  through  in  October  1990, 
with  the  two  sides  agreeing  to  focus  on  improved  tax  collections, 
faster  privatization  of  government-owned  and  government-con- 
trolled corporations,  and  the  imposition  of  a  temporary  import  levy. 
A  new  standby  agreement  between  the  government  and  the  IMF 
in  early  1991  committed  the  government  to  raise  taxes  and  energy 
prices.  Although  the  provisions  of  the  agreement  were  necessary 
in  order  to  secure  fresh  loans,  the  action  increased  the  administra- 
tion's already  fractious  relations  with  Congress. 

Monetary  Policy 

The  Central  Bank  of  the  Philippines  was  established  in  June  1948 
and  began  operation  the  following  January.  It  was  charged  with 
maintaining  monetary  stability;  preserving  the  value  and  conver- 
tibility of  the  peso;  and  fostering  monetary,  credit,  and  exchange 
conditions  conducive  to  the  economic  growth  of  the  country.  In 
1991  the  policy-making  body  of  the  Central  Bank  was  the  Mone- 
tary Board,  composed  of  the  governor  of  the  Central  Bank  as  chair- 
man, the  secretary  of  finance,  the  director  general  of  the  National 
Economic  and  Development  Authority,  the  chairman  of  the  Board 
of  Investment,  and  three  members  from  the  private  sector.  In  car- 
rying out  its  functions,  the  Central  Bank  supervised  the  commer- 
cial banking  system  and  managed  the  country's  foreign  currency 
system. 

From  1975  to  1982,  domestic  saving  (including  capital  consump- 
tion allowance)  averaged  25  percent  of  GNP,  about  5  percentage 
points  less  than  annual  gross  domestic  capital  formation.  This 
resource  gap  was  filled  with  foreign  capital.  Between  1983  and  1989, 
domestic  saving  as  a  proportion  of  GNP  declined  on  the  average 
by  a  third,  initially  because  of  the  impact  of  the  economic  crisis 
on  personal  savings  and  later  more  because  of  negative  govern- 
ment saving.  Investment  also  declined,  so  that  for  three  of  these 
years,  domestic  savings  actually  exceeded  gross  investment. 

From  the  time  it  began  operations  until  the  early  1980s,  the  Cen- 
tral Bank  intervened  extensively  in  the  country's  financial  life.  It 
set  interest  rates  on  both  bank  deposits  and  loans,  often  at  rates 
that  were,  when  adjusted  for  inflation,  negative.  Central  Bank  credit 


132 


The  Economy 


was  extended  to  commercial  banks  through  an  extensive  system 
of  rediscounting.  In  the  1970s,  the  banking  system  resorted,  with 
the  Central  Bank's  assistance,  to  foreign  credit  on  terms  that  gener- 
ally ignored  foreign-exchange  risk.  The  combination  of  these  fac- 
tors mitigated  against  the  development  of  financial  intermediation 
in  the  economy,  particularly  the  growth  of  long-term  saving.  The 
dependence  of  the  banking  system  on  funds  from  the  Central  Bank 
at  low  interest  rates,  in  conjunction  with  the  discretionary  authority 
of  the  bank,  has  been  cited  as  a  contributing  factor  to  the  financial 
chaos  that  occurred  in  the  1980s.  For  example,  the  proportion  of 
Central  Bank  loans  and  advances  to  government-owned  financial 
institutions  increased  from  about  25  percent  of  the  total  in  1970 
to  45  percent  in  1981-82.  Borrowings  of  the  government-owned 
Development  Bank  of  the  Philippines  from  the  Central  Bank  in- 
creased almost  100-fold  during  this  period.  Access  to  resources  of 
this  sort,  in  conjunction  with  subsidized  interest  rates,  enabled  Mar- 
cos cronies  to  obtain  loans  and  the  later  bailouts  that  contributed 
to  the  financial  chaos. 

At  the  start  of  the  1980s,  the  government  introduced  a  number 
of  monetary  measures  built  on  1972  reforms  to  enhance  the  bank- 
ing industry's  ability  to  provide  adequate  amounts  of  long-term 
finance.  Efforts  were  made  to  broaden  the  capital  base  of  banks 
through  encouraging  mergers  and  consolidations.  A  new  class  of 
banks,  referred  to  as  "expanded  commercial  banks"  or  "uni- 
banks,"  was  created  to  enhance  competition  and  the  efficiency  of 
the  banking  industry  and  to  increase  the  flow  of  long-term  saving. 
Qualifying  banks — those  with  a  capital  base  in  excess  of  P500 
million — were  allowed  to  expand  their  operations  into  a  range  of 
new  activities,  combining  commercial  banking  with  activities  of 
investment  houses.  The  functional  division  among  other  categories 
of  banks  was  reduced,  and  that  between  rural  banks  and  thrift  banks 
eliminated. 

Interest  rates  were  deregulated  during  the  same  period,  so  that 
by  January  1983  all  interest  rate  ceilings  had  been  abolished.  Redis- 
counting privileges  were  reduced,  and  rediscount  rates  were  set 
in  relation  to  the  cost  of  competing  funds.  Although  the  short-term 
response  seemed  favorable,  there  was  little  long-term  change.  The 
ratio  of  the  country's  money  supply,  broadly  defined  to  include 
savings  and  time  deposits,  to  GNP,  around  0.2  in  the  1970s,  rose 
to  0.3  in  1983,  but  then  fell  again  to  just  above  0.2  in  the  late  1980s. 
This  ratio  was  among  the  lowest  in  Southeast  Asia. 

Monetary  and  fiscal  policies  that  were  set  by  the  government  in 
the  early  1980s  contributed  to  large  intermediation  margins,  the  dif- 
ference between  lending  and  borrowing  rates.  In  1988,  for  example, 


133 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

loan  rates  averaged  16.8  percent,  whereas  rates  on  savings  deposits 
were  only  slightly  more  than  4  percent.  The  Central  Bank  tradi- 
tionally maintained  relatively  high  reserve  requirements  (the  propor- 
tion of  deposits  that  must  remain  in  reserve),  in  excess  of  20  percent. 
In  1990  the  reserve  requirement  was  revised  upward  twice,  going 
from  21  percent  to  25  percent.  In  addition,  the  government  levied 
both  a  5  percent  gross  tax  on  bank  receipts  and  a  20  percent  tax 
on  deposit  earnings,  and  borrowed  extensively  to  cover  budget 
deficits  and  to  absorb  excess  growth  in  the  money  supply. 

In  addition  to  large  intermediation  margins,  Philippine  banks 
offered  significandy  different  rates  for  deposits  of  different  amounts. 
For  instance,  in  1988  interest  rates  on  six-month  time  deposits  of 
large  depositors  averaged  almost  13  percent,  whereas  small  savers 
earned  only  4  percent  on  their  savings.  Rates  offered  on  six-month 
and  twelve-month  time  deposits  differed  by  only  1  percentage  point, 
and  the  rate  differential  for  foreign  currency  deposits  of  all  availa- 
ble maturities  was  within  a  single  percentage  point  range.  Because 
savings  deposits  accounted  for  approximately  60  percent  of  total 
bank  deposits  and  alternatives  for  small  savers  were  few,  the  prob- 
ability of  interest  rate  discrimination  by  the  commercial  banking 
industry  between  small,  less-informed  depositors  and  more  affluent 
savers  was  quite  high.  Interest  rates  of  time  deposits  also  were  bid 
up  to  reduce  capital  flight.  This  discrimination,  coupled  with  the 
large  intermediation  margins,  gave  rise  to  charges  by  Philippine 
economists  and  the  World  Bank  that  the  Philippine  commercial 
banking  industry  was  highly  oligopolistic. 

Money  supply  growth  has  been  highly  variable,  expanding  during 
economic  and  political  turmoil  and  then  contracting  when  the 
Philippines  tried  to  meet  IMF  requirements  (see  table  7,  Appen- 
dix). Before  the  1969,  1984,  and  1986  elections,  the  money  supply 
grew  rapidly.  The  flooding  of  the  economy  with  money  prior  to 
the  1986  elections  was  one  reason  why  the  newly  installed  Aquino 
administration  chose  to  scrap  the  existing  standby  arrangement  with 
the  IMF  in  early  1986  and  negotiate  a  new  agreement.  The  Cen- 
tral Bank  released  funds  to  stabilize  the  financial  situation  follow- 
ing a  financial  scandal  in  early  1981,  after  the  onset  of  an  economic 
crisis  in  late  1983,  and  after  a  coup  attempt  in  1989.  The  money 
was  then  repurchased  by  the  Treasury  and  the  Central  Bank  in 
the  form  of  the  so-called  Jobo  bills — named  after  then  Central  Bank 
Governor  Jose  Fernandez — at  high  interest  rates  that  peaked  in 
October  1984  at  43  percent  and  were  approaching  35  percent  in 
late  1990.  The  interest  paid  on  this  debt  necessitated  even  greater 
borrowing.  By  contrast,  in  1984  and  1985,  in  order  for  the  govern- 
ment to  regain  access  to  external  capital,  the  growth  rate  of  the 


134 


The  Economy 


money  supply  was  kept  very  tight.  IMF  dictates  were  met,  the  very 
high  inflation  rate  abated,  and  the  current  account  (see  Glossary) 
was  in  surplus.  Success,  however,  was  obtained  at  the  expense  of 
a  steep  fall  in  output  and  high  unemployment. 

Privatization 

When  Aquino  assumed  the  presidency  in  1986,  P31  billion, 
slightly  more  than  25  percent  of  the  government's  budget,  was 
allocated  to  public  sector  enterprises — government-owned  or  govern- 
ment-controlled corporations — in  the  form  of  equity  infusions,  sub- 
sidies, and  loans.  Aquino  also  found  it  necessary  to  write  off  P130 
billion  in  bad  loans  granted  by  the  government's  two  major  finan- 
cial institutions,  the  Philippine  National  Bank  and  the  Develop- 
ment Bank  of  the  Philippines,  "to  those  who  held  positions  of  power 
and  conflicting  interest  under  Marcos."  The  proliferation  of  in- 
efficient and  unprofitable  public  sector  enterprises  and  bad  loans 
held  by  the  Philippine  National  Bank,  the  Development  Bank  of 
the  Philippines,  and  other  government  entities  was  a  heavy  legacy 
of  the  Marcos  years. 

Burdened  with  296  public  sector  enterprises,  plus  399  other  non- 
performing  assets  transferred  to  the  government  by  the  Philippine 
National  Bank  and  the  Development  Bank  of  the  Philippines,  the 
Aquino  administration  established  the  Asset  Privatization  Trust 
in  1986  to  dispose  of  government-owned  and  government-controlled 
properties.  By  early  1991,  the  Asset  Privatization  Trust  had  sold 
230  assets,  with  net  proceeds  of  P14.3  billion.  Another  seventy- 
four  public  sector  enterprises  that  were  created  with  direct  govern- 
ment investment  were  put  up  for  sale;  fifty-seven  enterprises  were 
sold  wholly  or  in  part  for  a  total  of  about  P6  billion.  The  govern- 
ment designated  that  about  30  percent  of  the  original  public  sec- 
tor enterprises  be  retained  and  expected  to  abolish  another  20 
percent.  There  was  widespread  controversy  over  the  fairness  of  the 
divestment  procedure  and  its  potential  to  contribute  to  an  even 
greater  concentration  of  economic  power  in  the  hands  of  a  few 
wealthy  families. 

Agriculture,  Forestry,  and  Fishing 

Agricultural  Geography 

In  the  late  1980s,  nearly  8  million  hectares — over  25  percent  of 
total  land — were  under  cultivation,  4.5  million  hectares  in  field  crops 
and  3.2  million  hectares  in  tree  crops.  Population  growth  reduced 
the  amount  of  arable  land  per  person  employed  in  agriculture  from 
about  one  hectare  during  the  1950s  to  around  0.5  hectare  in  the 


135 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


early  1980s.  Growth  in  agricultural  output  had  to  come  largely  from 
multicropping  and  increasing  yields.  In  1988  double-cropping  and 
intercropping  resulted  in  13.4  million  hectares  of  harvested  area, 
a  total  that  was  considerably  greater  than  the  area  under  cultiva- 
tion. Palay  (unhusked  rice)  and  corn,  the  two  cereals  widely  grown 
in  the  Philippines,  accounted  for  about  half  of  total  crop  area. 
Another  25  percent  of  the  production  area  was  taken  up  by  coco- 
nuts, a  major  export  earner.  Sugarcane,  pineapples,  and  Caven- 
dish bananas  (a  dwarf  variety)  were  also  important  earners  of  foreign 
exchange,  although  they  accounted  for  a  relatively  small  portion 
of  cultivated  area. 

Climatic  conditions  are  a  major  determinant  of  crop  production 
patterns  (see  The  Climate,  ch.  2).  For  example,  coconut  trees  need 
a  constant  supply  of  water  and  do  not  do  well  in  areas  with  a 
prolonged  dry  season.  Sugarcane,  on  the  other  hand,  needs  moder- 
ate rainfall  spread  out  over  a  long  growing  period  and  a  dry  sea- 
son for  ripening  and  harvesting.  Soil  type,  topography,  government 
policy,  and  regional  conflict  between  Christians  and  Muslims  were 
also  determinants  in  the  patterns  of  agricultural  activity. 

Agricultural  Production  and  Government  Policy 

The  percentage  of  the  population  living  in  rural  areas  declined 
from  68  percent  in  1970  to  57  percent  in  1990,  and  the  share  of 
the  labor  force  engaged  in  agriculture,  forestry,  and  fishing  also 
decreased  to  less  than  50  percent  by  the  late  1980s.  Roughly  two- 
thirds  of  agricultural  households  farmed  their  own  land  or  were 
tenants;  the  others  were  landless  agricultural  workers.  Some  75  per- 
cent of  agricultural  value  added  (see  Glossary)  came  from  crops 
and  livestock.  The  remaining  25  percent  came  from  forestry  and 
fishing  (see  table  8,  Appendix).  Value  added  in  agricultural  crops 
grew  rapidly  in  the  early  1970s,  averaging  growth  rates  of  7.7  per- 
cent (see  table  9,  Appendix).  In  the  1980s,  however,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  corn,  which  was  in  growing  demand  as  an  animal  feed, 
the  growth  rate  of  agricultural  production  declined  and  was  some- 
times negative  for  bananas  and  sugarcane.  Low  world  prices  com- 
bined with  the  high  cost  of  inputs  such  as  fertilizers  were  two  of 
the  most  important  reasons  for  the  decline. 

The  government  pursued  sometimes  contradictory  goals  of  main- 
taining cheap  food  and  raw  material  prices,  high  farm  income,  food 
security,  and  stable  prices,  at  times  through  direct  intervention  in 
agricultural  markets.  In  1981  the  National  Food  Authority  was 
created.  It  was  empowered  to  regulate  the  marketing  of  all  food 
and  was  given  monopoly  privileges  to  import  grains,  soybeans,  and 
other  feedstuffs.  The  ability  of  the  National  Food  Authority  and 


136 


Traditional  methods  of  winnowing  rice  and  plowing  rice 
paddies  are  still  extensively  used. 
Courtesy  Philippine  Tourist  Research  and  Planning  Organization 


137 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

its  predecessor  organizations  to  stabilize  prices  and  keep  them  with- 
in the  established  price  bands,  at  either  the  farm  gate  or  the  retail 
market,  has  been  quite  limited  because  of  insufficient  funds  to 
affect  the  market,  strict  purchasing  requirements,  and  corrupt 
practices  among  authority  personnel.  In  1985  the  role  of  the  Na- 
tional Food  Authority  was  reduced,  and  price  ceilings  on  rice  were 
lifted.  Beginning  in  the  1950s,  government  efforts  to  stimulate 
industrial  development,  such  as  tariffs  on  manufactured  goods,  over- 
valuation of  the  currency,  export  taxes  on  agricultural  commodi- 
ties, and  price  controls  had  a  deleterious  effect  on  the  agricultural 
sector,  making  it  relatively  unprofitable.  On  the  other  hand,  irri- 
gation water  was  distributed  at  below-cost  prices,  and  fertilizer 
manufacturing  was  subsidized. 

Beginning  in  the  latter  half  of  the  1970s,  the  Marcos  regime  gave 
increased  attention  to  agriculture  and  the  rural  sector  in  general, 
including  agribusiness  development.  The  Aquino  government  con- 
tinued that  emphasis,  although  its  policy  evolved  from  a  commodity- 
specific  orientation  to  a  general,  crop-diversification  approach  that 
relied  more  on  market  signals  to  guide  crop  selection.  The  rice- 
price  stabilization  program  remained  in  effect,  and  a  program  was 
implemented  to  increase  small-farmer  access  to  postharvest  facili- 
ties such  as  warehouses,  rice  mills,  driers,  and  threshers. 

Providing  credit  to  the  agricultural  sector,  particularly  to  small- 
sized  and  medium- sized  farmers  had  been  a  government  policy  since 
the  early  1950s,  one  that  met  with  mixed  success  at  best.  By  the 
early  1980s,  there  were  approximately  900  privately  owned,  rural 
banks,  which  were  the  principal  implementors  of  government- 
sponsored,  supervised  credit  schemes.  The  Masagana  99  program 
was  initiated  in  the  early  1970s  to  encourage  adoption  of  new,  high- 
yielding  rice  varieties.  No-collateral,  low-interest  loans  were  made 
available  to  small  farmers,  mainly  by  privately  owned,  rural  banks, 
with  the  government  guaranteeing  85  percent  of  any  losses  suffered 
by  the  banks.  In  general,  however,  regulated  interest  rates  made 
rural  banks  unattractive  to  depositors. 

In  1975  more  than  500,000  farmers  participated  in  the  Masagana 
99  program.  By  1985,  however,  the  program  had  expired  because 
of  high  arrearage  and  the  tight  monetary  policy  instituted  as  part 
of  an  agreement  with  the  IMF.  The  program  was  revived  in  the 
Aquino  administration's  Medium-Term  Development  Plan, 
1987-92.  According  to  a  government  report,  however,  as  of  1988 
the  program  had  not  yet  reached  most  of  the  intended  beneficiaries. 
Government  efforts  were  also  underway  to  rehabilitate  rural  banks, 
the  majority  of  which  had  experienced  severe  difficulties  during 


138 


The  Economy 


the  economic  crisis  of  the  early  1980s  and  the  subsequent  mone- 
tary squeeze. 

Rice  and  the  Green  Revolution 

Rice  is  the  most  important  food  crop,  a  staple  food  in  most  of 
the  country.  It  is  produced  extensively  in  Luzon,  the  Western 
Visayas,  Southern  Mindanao,  and  Central  Mindanao  (see  fig.  5). 
In  1989  nearly  9.5  billion  tons  of  palay  were  produced.  In  1990 
palay  accounted  for  27  percent  of  value  added  in  agriculture  and 
3.5  percent  of  GNP.  Per  hectare  yields  have  generally  been  low 
in  comparison  with  other  Asian  countries.  Since  the  mid-1960s, 
however,  yields  have  increased  substantially  as  a  result  of  the  cul- 
tivation of  high-yielding  varieties  developed  in  the  mid-1960s  at 
the  International  Rice  Research  Institute  located  in  the  Philippines. 
The  proportion  of  "miracle"  rice  in  total  output  rose  from  zero 
in  1965-66  to  81  percent  in  1981-82.  Average  productivity  increased 
to  2.3  tons  per  hectare  (2.8  tons  on  irrigated  farms)  by  1983.  By 
the  late  1970s,  the  country  had  changed  from  a  net  importer  to 
a  net  exporter  of  rice,  albeit  on  a  small  scale. 

This  "green  revolution"  was  accompanied  by  an  expanded  use 
of  chemical  inputs.  Total  fertilizer  consumption  rose  from  668  tons 
in  1976  to  1,222  tons  in  1988,  an  increase  of  more  than  80  per- 
cent. To  stimulate  productivity,  the  government  also  undertook 
a  major  expansion  of  the  nation's  irrigation  system.  The  area  un- 
der irrigation  grew  from  under  500,000  hectares  in  the  mid-1960s 
to  1.5  million  hectares  in  1988,  almost  half  of  the  potentially  ir- 
rigable land. 

In  the  1980s,  however,  rice  production  encountered  problems. 
Average  annual  growth  for  1980-85  declined  to  a  mere  0.9  per- 
cent, as  contrasted  with  4.6  percent  for  the  preceding  fifteen  years. 
Growth  of  value  added  in  the  rice  industry  also  fell  in  the  1980s. 
Tropical  storms  and  droughts,  the  general  economic  downturn  of 
the  1980s,  and  the  1983-85  economic  crisis  all  contributed  to  this 
decline.  Crop  loans  dried  up,  prices  of  agricultural  inputs  increased, 
and  palay  prices  declined.  Fertilizer  and  plant  nutrient  consump- 
tion dropped  15  percent.  Farmers  were  squeezed  by  rising  debts 
and  declining  income.  Hectarage  devoted  to  rice  production,  lev- 
el during  the  latter  half  of  the  1970s,  fell  an  average  of  2.4  percent 
per  annum  during  the  first  half  of  the  1980s,  with  the  decline 
primarily  in  marginal,  nonirrigated  farms.  As  a  result,  in  1985, 
the  last  full  year  of  the  Marcos  regime,  the  country  imported 
538,000  tons  of  rice.  The  situation  improved  somewhat  in  the  late 
1980s,  and  smaller  amounts  of  rice  were  imported.  However,  in 
1990  the  country  experienced  a  severe  drought.  Output  fell  by 


139 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

1.5  percent,  forcing  the  importation  of  an  estimated  400,000  tons 
of  rice. 

Coconut  Industry 

The  Philippines  is  the  world's  second  largest  producer  of  coco- 
nut products,  after  Indonesia.  In  1989  it  produced  11.8  million 
tons.  In  1989,  coconut  products,  coconut  oil,  copra  (dried  coco- 
nut), and  desiccated  coconut  accounted  for  approximately  6.7  per- 
cent of  Philippine  exports.  About  25  percent  of  cultivated  land  was 
planted  in  coconut  trees,  and  it  is  estimated  that  between  25  per- 
cent and  33  percent  of  the  population  was  at  least  partly  depen- 
dent on  coconuts  for  their  livelihood.  Historically,  the  Southern 
Tagalog  and  Bicol  regions  of  Luzon  and  the  Eastern  Visayas  were 
the  centers  of  coconut  production.  In  the  1980s,  Western  Minda- 
nao and  Southern  Mindanao  also  became  important  coconut- 
growing  regions. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  average  coconut  farm  was  a  medium- 
sized  unit  of  less  than  four  hectares.  Owners,  often  absentee,  cus- 
tomarily employed  local  peasants  to  collect  coconuts  rather  than 
engage  in  tenancy  relationships.  The  villagers  were  paid  on  a  piece- 
rate  basis.  Those  employed  in  the  coconut  industry  tended  to  be 
less  educated  and  older  than  the  average  person  in  the  rural  labor 
force  and  earned  lower- than-average  incomes. 

Land  devoted  to  cultivation  of  coconuts  increased  by  about  6 
percent  per  year  during  the  1960s  and  1970s,  a  response  to  devalu- 
ations of  the  peso  in  1962  and  1970  and  increasing  world  demand. 
Responding  to  the  world  market,  the  Philippine  government  en- 
couraged processing  of  copra  domestically  and  provided  investment 
incentives  to  increase  the  construction  of  coconut  oil  mills.  The 
number  of  mills  rose  from  twenty-eight  in  1968  to  sixty-two  in  1979, 
creating  substantial  excess  capacity.  The  situation  was  aggravat- 
ed by  declining  yields  because  of  the  aging  of  coconut  trees  in  some 
regions. 

In  1973  the  martial  law  regime  merged  all  coconut-related, 
government  operations  within  a  single  agency,  the  Philippine  Coco- 
nut Authority  (PC  A).  The  PC  A  was  empowered  to  collect  a  levy 
of  P0.55  per  100  kilograms  on  the  sale  of  copra  to  be  used  to  stabi- 
lize the  domestic  price  of  coconut-based  consumer  goods,  particu- 
larly cooking  oil.  In  1974  the  government  created  the  Coconut 
Industry  Development  Fund  (CIDF)  to  finance  the  development 
of  a  hybrid  coconut  tree.  To  finance  the  project,  the  levy  was  in- 
creased to  P20. 

Also  in  1974,  coconut  planters,  led  by  the  Coconut  Producers 
Federation  (Cocofed),  an  organization  of  large  planters,  took  control 


140 


Figure  5.  Major  Agricultural  Activ\ 


The  Economy 


of  the  PCA  governing  board.  In  1975  the  PCA  acquired  a  bank, 
renamed  the  United  Coconut  Planters  Bank,  to  service  the  needs 
of  coconut  farmers,  and  the  PCA  director,  Eduardo  Cojuangco, 
a  business  associate  of  Marcos,  became  its  president.  Levies  col- 
lected by  the  PCA  were  placed  in  the  bank,  initially  interest-free. 
In  1978  the  United  Coconut  Planters  Bank  was  given  legal  authority 
to  purchase  coconut  mills,  ostensibly  as  a  measure  to  cope  with 
excess  capacity  in  the  industry.  At  the  same  time,  mills  not  owned 
by  coconut  farmers — that  is,  Cocofed  members  or  entities  it  con- 
trolled through  the  PCA — were  denied  subsidy  payments  to  com- 
pensate for  the  price  controls  on  coconut-based  consumer  products. 
By  early  1980,  the  Philippine  press  reported  that  the  United  Coco- 
nut Oil  Mills,  a  PCA-owned  firm,  and  its  president,  Cojuangco, 
controlled  80  percent  of  the  Philippine  oil-milling  capacity.  Minister 
of  Defense  Juan  Ponce  Enrile  also  exercised  strong  influence  over 
the  industry  as  chairman  of  both  the  United  Coconut  Planters  Bank 
and  United  Coconut  Oil  Mills  and  honorary  chairman  of  Cocofed. 
An  industry  composed  of  some  0.5  million  farmers  and  14,000 
traders  was,  by  the  early  1980s,  highly  monopolized. 

In  principle,  the  coconut  farmers  were  to  be  the  beneficiaries 
of  the  levy,  which  between  March  1977  and  September  1981  stabi- 
lized at  P76  per  100  kilograms.  Contingent  benefits  included  life 
insurance,  educational  scholarships,  and  a  cooking  oil  subsidy,  but 
few  actually  benefited.  The  aim  of  the  replanting  program,  con- 
trolled by  Cojuangco,  was  to  replace  aging  coconut  trees  with  a 
hybrid  of  a  Malaysian  dwarf  and  West  African  tall  varieties.  The 
new  palms  were  to  produce  five  times  the  weight  per  year  of  exist- 
ing trees.  The  target  of  replanting  60,000  trees  a  year  was  not  met. 
In  1983,  25  to  30  percent  of  coconut  trees  were  estimated  to  be 
at  least  sixty  years  old;  by  1988,  the  proportion  had  increased  to 
between  35  and  40  percent. 

When  coconut  prices  began  to  fall  in  the  early  1980s,  pressure 
mounted  to  alter  the  structure  of  the  industry.  In  1985  the  Philip- 
pine government  agreed  to  dismantie  the  United  Coconut  Oil  Mills 
as  part  of  an  agreement  with  the  IMF  to  bail  out  the  Philippine 
economy.  Later  a  1988  United  States  law  requiring  foods  using 
tropical  oils  to  be  labeled  indicating  the  saturated  fat  content  had 
a  negative  impact  on  an  already  ailing  industry  and  gave  rise  to 
protests  from  coconut  growers  that  similar  requirements  were  not 
levied  on  oils  produced  in  temperate  climates. 

Sugar 

From  the  mid-nineteenth  century  to  the  mid-1970s,  sugar  was 
the  most  important  agricultural  export  of  the  Philippines,  not  only 


143 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

because  of  the  foreign  exchange  earned,  but  also  because  sugar  was 
the  basis  for  the  accumulation  of  wealth  of  a  significant  segment 
of  the  Filipino  elite.  The  principal  sugarcane-growing  region  is  the 
Western  Visayas,  particularly  the  island  of  Negros.  In  1980  the 
region  accounted  for  half  the  area  planted  in  cane  and  two-thirds 
of  the  production  of  sugar.  Unlike  the  cultivation  of  rice,  corn,  and 
coconuts,  sugarcane  is  typically  grown  on  large  farms  or  hacien- 
das. In  the  mid-1980s,  more  than  60  percent  of  total  production 
and  about  80  percent  of  Negros' s  output  came  from  farms  twenty- 
five  hectares  or  larger.  Countrywide,  tenancy  arrangements  exist- 
ed for  approximately  half  the  sugarcane  farms;  however,  they  were 
generally  the  smaller  ones,  averaging  2.5  hectares  in  size  and  ac- 
counting for  only  slightly  more  than  20  percent  of  land  planted 
in  the  crop.  Elsewhere,  laborers  were  employed,  generally  at  very 
low  wages.  A  survey  undertaken  in  1990  by  the  governor  of  Negros 
Occidental  found  that  only  one-third  of  the  island's  sugar  planters 
were  paying  the  then-mandated  minimum  wage  of  P72.50  per  day. 
The  contrast  between  the  sumptuous  lifestyles  of  Negros  hacenderos 
and  the  poverty  of  their  workers,  particularly  migrant  laborers 
known  as  sacadas,  epitomized  the  vast  social  and  economic  gulf 
separating  the  elite  in  the  Philippines  from  the  great  mass  of  the 
population. 

In  the  1950s  and  1960s,  sugar  accounted  for  more  than  20  per- 
cent of  Philippine  exports.  Its  share  declined  somewhat  in  the  1970s 
and  plummeted  in  the  first  half  of  the  1980s  to  around  7  percent. 
The  sugar  industry  was  in  a  crisis.  Part  of  the  problem  was  a 
depressed  market  for  sugar.  A  dramatic  increase  in  the  world  price 
of  sugar  had  occurred  in  1974,  peaking  at  US$0.67  per  pound  in 
December  of  that  year.  The  following  two  years,  however,  saw 
prices  fall  to  less  than  US$0.10  a  pound  and  remain  there  for  a 
few  years  before  moving  upward  again  toward  the  end  of  the  de- 
cade. Sugar  prices  fell  again  in  the  early  1980s,  bottoming  in  May 
1985  at  less  than  US$0.03  per  pound  and  averaging  US$0.04  per 
pound  for  the  year  as  a  whole.  In  early  1990,  prices  had  recovered 
to  US$0.14  cents  per  pound,  then  declined  to  approximately 
US$0.08  to  US$0.09  per  pound. 

Historically,  the  Philippines  was  protected  to  a  certain  degree 
from  vicissitudes  of  the  world  price  of  sugar  by  the  country's  ac- 
cess to  a  protected  and  subsidized  United  States  market.  In  1913 
the  United  States  Congress  established  free  trade  with  its  Philip- 
pine colony,  providing  Filipino  sugar  producers  unlimited  access 
to  the  American  market.  Later,  in  1934,  a  quota  system  on  sugar 
was  enacted  and  remained  in  force  until  1974.  Although  Philip- 
pine sugar  exports  to  the  United  States  were  restricted  during  this 


144 


Coconuts  and  sugarcane  are  the  leading  commercial 
crops.  Abaca,  dyed  fibers  of  which  are  shown  here,  is  less  important. 
Courtesy  Philippine  Tourist  Research  and  Planning  Organization 


145 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

period,  the  country  continued  to  enjoy  a  relatively  privileged  po- 
sition. Philippine  quotas  for  the  United  States  market  in  the  early 
1970s  accounted  for  between  25  and  30  percent  of  the  total,  dou- 
ble that  of  other  significant  suppliers  such  as  the  Dominican  Repub- 
lic, Mexico,  and  Brazil.  After  the  quota  law  expired  in  1974, 
Philippine  sugar  was  sold  on  the  open  market,  generally  to  unre- 
stricted destinations.  As  a  consequence,  shipments  to  the  United 
States  declined. 

On  May  5,  1982,  the  United  States  reestablished  a  quota  sys- 
tem for  the  importation  of  sugar.  Allocations  were  based  on  a  coun- 
try's share  in  sugar  trade  with  the  United  States  during  the  1975-81 
period,  the  period  during  which  Philippine  sugar  exports  to  the 
United  States  had  dwindled.  The  Philippine  allotment  was  13.5 
percent.  Efforts  by  the  Philippine  government  to  have  it  raised  to 
25  percent,  the  country's  approximate  share  during  the  previous 
quota  period,  were  unsuccessful.  The  loss  of  sales  imposed  by  the 
reduced  quota  share  was  compounded  by  a  dramatic  40  percent 
drop  in  total  United  States  imports  of  sugar  in  the  mid-1980s  as 
compared  with  the  early  1970s.  Philippine  sugar  exports  to  the  Unit- 
ed States  that  had  averaged  just  under  1.3  million  tons  per  year 
in  the  1968-71  period  averaged  only  284,000  tons  from  1983  to 
1988,  falling  to  approximately  161,000  tons  in  1988.  In  1988  only 
273  thousand  hectares  were  sugar  producing,  about  half  that  of 
the  early  1970s. 

During  the  earlier  quota  period,  Philippine  producers  enjoyed 
high  profits,  but  operations  were  inefficient  and  lacking  in  mechani- 
zation. Sugar  yields  in  the  Philippines  were  among  the  lowest  in 
the  world.  Increases  in  production  occurred  through  expansion  of 
land  area  devoted  to  sugarcane.  With  falling  prices  and  the  end 
of  the  United  States  quota,  attempts  to  improve  productivity 
through  mechanization  increased  yields,  but  caused  a  dramatic  fall 
in  labor  requirements,  initially  by  50  percent  and,  over  a  longer 
period,  by  an  estimated  90  percent.  In  an  island  economy  such 
as  that  of  Negros,  where  sugar  has  accounted  directly  for  25  per- 
cent of  employment,  the  consequent  actual  and  potential  lost  liveli- 
hood was  disastrous. 

The  decline  of  the  sugar  industry  was  complicated  by  the 
monopolization  that  took  place  during  the  martial  law  period,  a 
process  not  dissimilar  to  what  occurred  in  the  coconut  industry. 
In  1976,  as  a  reaction  to  the  precipitous  decline  in  sugar  prices, 
Marcos  established  the  Philippine  Sugar  Commission  (Philsucom), 
placing  at  the  head  his  close  associate  Roberto  Benedicto.  Philsu- 
com was  given  sole  authority  to  buy  and  sell  sugar,  to  set  prices 
paid  to  planters  and  millers,  and  to  purchase  companies  connected 


146 


The  Economy 


to  the  sugar  industry.  A  bank  was  set  up  in  1978,  and  the  con- 
struction of  seven  new  sugar  mills  was  authorized  at  a  cost  of  US$40 
million  per  mill. 

By  the  1980s,  considerable  resistance  to  Philsucom  and  its  trad- 
ing subsidiary,  the  National  Sugar  Trading  Corporation  (Nasutra) 
had  been  generated.  As  with  the  monopoly  in  the  coconut  indus- 
try, the  government  acquiesced  in  its  1985  agreement  with  the  IMF 
to  dismantle  Nasutra.  But  the  damage  had  been  done.  In  a  study 
undertaken  by  a  group  of  University  of  the  Philippines  economists, 
losses  to  sugar  producers  between  1974  and  1983  were  estimated 
to  be  between  PI  1  billion  and  PI 4  billion.  Aquino  established  the 
Sugar  Regulatory  Authority  in  1986  to  take  over  the  institutions 
set  up  by  Benedicto. 

Land  Tenancy  and  Land  Reform 

An  important  legacy  of  the  Spanish  colonial  period  was  the  high 
concentration  of  land  ownership  and  the  consequent  widespread 
poverty  and  agrarian  unrest  (see  The  Decline  of  Spanish  Rule, 
ch.  1).  United  States  administrators  and  several  Philippine  presiden- 
tial administrations  launched  land  reform  programs  to  maintain 
social  stability  in  the  countryside.  Lack  of  sustained  political  will, 
however,  as  well  as  landlord  resistance,  severely  limited  the  im- 
pact of  the  various  initiatives. 

Farm  size  is  a  significant  indicator  of  concentration  of  owner- 
ship. Although  nationwide  approximately  50  percent  of  farms  in 
1980  were  less  than  two  hectares,  these  small  farms  made  up  only 
16  percent  of  total  farm  area.  On  the  other  hand,  only  about  3 
percent  of  farms  were  over  ten  hectares,  yet  they  covered  approxi- 
mately 25  percent  of  farm  area.  Farms  also  varied  in  size  based 
on  crops  cultivated.  Rice  farms  tended  to  be  smaller;  only  9  per- 
cent of  rice  land  was  on  farms  as  large  as  ten  hectares.  Coconut 
farms  tended  to  be  somewhat  larger;  approximately  28  percent  of 
the  land  planted  in  coconuts  was  on  farms  larger  than  ten  hectares. 
Sugarcane,  however,  generally  was  planted  on  large  farms.  Near- 
ly 80  percent  of  land  planted  in  sugarcane  was  on  farms  larger  than 
ten  hectares.  Pineapple  plantations  were  a  special  case.  Because 
the  two  largest  producers  were  subsidiaries  of  transnational  firms — 
Del  Monte  and  Castle  and  Cooke — they  were  not  permitted  to  own 
land  directly.  The  transnationals  circumvented  this  restriction, 
however,  by  leasing  land.  In  1987  subsidiaries  of  these  two  com- 
panies leased  21,400  hectares,  40  percent  of  the  total  hectarage 
devoted  to  pineapple  production. 

In  September  1972,  the  second  presidential  decree  that  Marcos  is- 
sued under  martial  law  declared  the  entire  Philippines  a  land  reform 


147 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

area.  A  month  later,  he  issued  Presidential  Decree  No.  27,  which 
contained  the  specifics  of  his  land  reform  program.  On  paper,  the 
program  was  the  most  comprehensive  ever  attempted  in  the  Philip- 
pines, notwithstanding  the  fact  that  only  rice  and  corn  land  were 
included.  Holdings  of  more  than  seven  hectares  were  to  be  pur- 
chased and  parceled  out  to  individual  tenants  (up  to  three  hectares 
of  irrigated,  or  five  hectares  of  unirrigated,  land),  who  would  then 
pay  off  the  value  of  the  land  over  a  fifteen-year  period.  Sharecrop- 
pers on  holdings  of  less  than  seven  hectares  were  to  be  converted 
to  leaseholders,  paying  fixed  rents. 

The  Marcos  land  reform  program  succeeded  in  breaking  down 
many  of  the  large  haciendas  in  Central  Luzon,  a  traditional  center 
of  agrarian  unrest  where  landed  elite  and  Marcos  allies  were  not 
as  numerous  as  in  other  parts  of  the  country.  In  the  country  as 
a  whole,  however,  the  program  was  generally  considered  a  failure. 
Only  20  percent  of  rice  and  corn  land,  or  10  percent  of  total  farm 
land,  was  covered  by  the  program,  and  in  1985,  thirteen  years  af- 
ter Marcos's  proclamation,  75  percent  of  the  expected  beneficiaries 
had  not  become  owner-cultivators.  By  1988  less  than  6  percent  of 
all  agricultural  households  had  received  a  certificate  of  land  trans- 
fer, indicating  that  the  land  they  were  cultivating  had  been 
registered  as  a  land  transfer  holding.  About  half  of  this  group,  2.4 
percent,  had  received  titles,  referred  to  as  emancipation  patents. 
Political  commitment  on  the  part  of  the  government  waned  rather 
quickly,  after  Marcos  succeeded  in  undermining  the  strength  of 
land  elites  who  had  opposed  him.  Even  where  efforts  were  made, 
implementation  was  selective,  mismanaged,  and  subject  to  con- 
siderable graft  and  corruption. 

The  failure  of  the  Marcos  land  reform  program  was  a  major 
theme  in  Aquino's  1986  presidential  campaign,  and  she  gave  land 
reform  first  priority:  "Land-to-the-tiller  must  become  a  reality, 
instead  of  an  empty  slogan."  The  issue  was  of  some  significance 
inasmuch  as  one  of  the  largest  landholdings  in  the  country  was  her 
family's  15,000-hectare  Hacienda  Luisita.  But  the  candidate  was 
quite  clear;  the  land  reform  would  apply  to  Hacienda  Luisita  as 
well  as  to  any  other  landholding.  She  did  not  actually  begin  to  ad- 
dress the  land  reform  question,  however,  until  the  issue  was  brought 
to  a  head  in  January  1987,  when  the  military  attacked  a  group  of 
peasants  marching  to  Malacanang,  the  presidential  residence,  to 
demand  action  on  the  promised  land  reform.  Eighteen  peasants 
were  killed,  and  more  than  100  were  wounded.  The  event  gal- 
vanized the  government  into  action:  a  land  reform  commission  was 
formed,  and  in  July  1987,  one  week  before  the  new  Congress  con- 
vened and  her  decree-making  powers  would  be  curtailed,  Aquino 


148 


Modern  hand  plow 
Courtesy  Lisowski  Collection,  Library  of  Congress 

proclaimed  the  Comprehensive  Agrarian  Reform  Program.  More 
than  80  percent  of  cultivated  land  and  almost  65  percent  of  agricul- 
tural households  were  to  be  included  in  a  phased  process  that  would 
consider  the  type  of  land  and  size  of  holding.  In  conformity  with 
the  country's  new  constitution,  provisions  for  "voluntary  land  shar- 
ing" and  just  compensation  were  included.  The  important  details 
of  timing,  priorities,  and  minimum  legal  holdings,  however,  were 
left  to  be  determined  by  the  new  Congress,  the  majority  of  whose 
members  were  connected  to  landed  interests. 

Criticism  of  Aquino's  plan  came  from  both  sides.  Landowners 
thought  that  it  went  too  far,  and  peasant  organizations  complained 
that  the  program  did  not  go  far  enough  and  that  by  leaving  the 
details  to  a  landlord-dominated  Congress,  the  program  was  doomed 
to  failure.  A  World  Bank  mission  was  quite  critical  of  a  draft  of 
the  land  reform  program.  In  its  report,  the  mission  suggested  that 
in  order  to  limit  efforts  to  subvert  the  process,  the  Comprehensive 
Agrarian  Reform  Program  needed  to  be  carried  out  swiftly  rather 
than  in  stages,  and  land  prices  should  be  determined  using  a 
mechanical  formula  rather  than  subjective  valuation.  The  World 
Bank  mission  also  was  critical  of  a  provision  allowing  incorporat- 
ed farm  entities  to  distribute  stock  to  tenants  and  workers  rather 
than  the  land  itself.  The  scheme  would  be  attractive,  the  mission 


149 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

argued,  ''to  those  landowners  who  believed  that  they  would  not 
have  to  live  up  to  the  agreement  to  transfer  the  land  to  the 
beneficiaries."  The  mission's  recommendations  were  largely  ig- 
nored in  the  final  version  of  the  government's  program. 

On  June  10,  1988,  a  year  after  the  proclamation,  Congress  passed 
the  Comprehensive  Agrarian  Reform  Law.  Landowners  were  al- 
lowed to  retain  up  to  five  hectares  plus  three  hectares  for  each  heir 
at  least  fifteen  years  of  age.  The  program  was  to  be  implemented 
in  phases.  The  amount  of  land  that  could  be  retained  was  to  be 
gradually  decreased,  and  a  non-land-transfer,  profit-sharing  pro- 
gram could  be  used  as  an  alternative  to  actual  land  transfer. 

Especially  controversial  was  the  provision  that  allowed  large  land- 
owners to  transfer  a  portion  of  the  respective  corporation's  total 
assets  equivalent  in  value  to  that  of  its  land  assets,  in  lieu  of  the 
land  being  subdivided  and  distributed  to  tenants  and  farm  laborers. 
In  May  1989,  the  7,000  tenants  of  the  Aquino  family  estate,  Ha- 
cienda Luisita,  agreed  to  take  a  33  percent  share  of  the  hacienda's 
corporate  stock  rather  than  a  portion  of  the  land  itself.  Because 
the  remaining  two-thirds  of  the  stock  (the  value  of  non-land  cor- 
porate assets)  remained  with  Aquino's  family,  effective  control  of 
the  land  did  not  pass  to  the  tillers.  Proponents  of  land  reform  con- 
sidered the  stock-ownership  provision  a  loophole  in  the  law,  and 
one  that  many  large  landowners  would  probably  use.  Following 
the  example  of  the  Hacienda  Luisita,  thirty-four  agrocorporations 
had  requested  approval  for  a  stock  transfer  as  of  mid- 1990.  Although 
legal,  the  action  of  the  president's  family  raised  questions  as  to  the 
president's  commitment  to  land  reform. 

It  is  difficult  to  estimate  the  cost,  allowing  for  inflation,  of  the 
Comprehensive  Agrarian  Reform  Program.  Early  on,  in  1988  es- 
timates ranged  between  PI 70  billion  and  P220  billion;  the  follow- 
ing year  they  were  as  high  as  P332  billion,  of  which  P83  billion 
was  for  land  acquisition  and  P248  billion  for  support  services  and 
infrastructure.  The  lowest  mentioned  figure  averaged  to  PI 7  bil- 
lion a  year,  2.1  percent  of  1988  GNP  in  the  Philippines  and  8.9 
percent  of  government  expenditure  that  year.  The  sum  was  well 
beyond  the  capacity  of  the  country,  unless  tax  revenues  were  in- 
creased substantially  and  expenditure  priorities  reordered.  To  cir- 
cumvent this  difficulty,  the  Aquino  government  planned  to  obtain 
50  to  60  percent  of  the  funding  requirements  from  foreign  aid.  As 
of  1990,  however,  success  had  been  minimal. 

Government  claims  that  in  the  first  three  years  of  implementa- 
tion the  Comprehensive  Agrarian  Reform  Program  met  with  con- 
siderable success  were  open  to  question.  Between  July  1987  and 
March  1990,  430,730  hectares  were  distributed.  About  80  percent 


150 


The  Economy 


of  this,  however,  was  from  the  continuation  of  the  Marcos  land 
reform  program.  Distribution  of  privately  owned  lands  other  than 
land  growing  rice  and  corn  totaled  3,470  hectares;  the  total  was 
insignificant  not  only  in  absolute  terms,  but  also  because  it  was 
only  2  percent  of  what  had  been  targeted.  The  inability  of  the 
Department  of  Agrarian  Reform  to  spend  its  budget  also  indicat- 
ed implementation  difficulties.  As  of  June  1990,  the  department 
had  utilized  only  44  percent  of  the  PI 4. 2  billion  allocated  to  it  for 
the  period  January  1988-June  1990.  In  part  because  of  Supreme 
Court  rulings,  the  Department  of  Agrarian  Reform  cut  its  land 
acquisition  target  in  late  1990  by  almost  half  from  400,000  hect- 
ares to  250,000  hectares. 

Livestock 

In  1990  the  livestock  industry,  consisting  primarily  of  cattle,  cara- 
bao  (water  buffalo),  hogs,  and  chickens,  accounted  for  almost  20 
percent  of  value  added  in  the  agricultural  sector,  up  from  12  per- 
cent in  1980.  Much  of  the  growth  came  from  the  rapid  expansion 
of  poultry  raising,  which  had  begun  to  develop  as  a  commercial 
industry  in  the  1960s.  Chicken  raising  accounted  for  half  of  livestock 
value  added  in  1990  as  compared  with  a  quarter  in  1970.  Begin- 
ning in  the  late  1980s,  commercial  hog  raisers  also  attempted  to 
enter  the  international  market  by  exporting  live  hogs  to  Hong  Kong. 
Although  carabao  production  increased  as  a  result  of  an  intensi- 
fied livestock  dispersal  program  run  by  the  government,  the  cara- 
bao and  catde  industries  remained  primarily  backyard  ventures. 

In  the  late  1980s,  hogs  provided  60  percent  of  total  domestic  meat 
production;  chickens  provided  15  percent;  and  cattle  and  carabao, 
about  20  percent.  The  country  was  relatively  self-sufficient  in  hog 
and  chicken  production  but  imported  approximately  4,500  tons  of 
beef  annually.  The  economic  difficulties  of  the  1980s  made  the 
lower-priced  chicken  and  carabao  attractive  substitutes  for  higher 
priced  pork  and  beef,  but  carabao  raising  remained  oriented  primar- 
ily toward  providing  work  animals.  The  dairy  industry  in  the  Philip- 
pines also  was  quite  small.  Liquid  milk  generally  was  not  available 
in  the  market,  and  virtually  all  canned  and  dry  milk  was  imported. 

Forestry 

Logging  was  a  profitable  business  at  the  end  of  the  1980s.  Actual 
forested  land  was  estimated  to  be  about  6.5  million  hectares — more 
than  21.5  percent  of  Philippine  territory — and  much  of  that  was  in 
higher  elevations  and  on  steep  slopes.  The  government  facilitated 
the  exploitation  of  the  country's  forest  resources  for  the  first  three 
decades  after  independence  by  allocating  the  bulk  of  unclassified 


151 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

land  as  public  forest  land  eligible  to  be  licensed  for  logging,  and 
by  implementing  policies  of  low  forest  charges  and  export  taxes. 
Logs  were  a  major  foreign-exchange  earner.  By  1977,  8.3  million 
hectares  of  forest  area  were  licensed  for  logging.  In  the  late  1970s, 
the  government  became  aware  of  the  dangers  of  deforestation  and 
began  to  impose  restrictions.  The  amount  of  forested  land  and  the 
volume  of  forest  exports  declined.  By  1988,  120  licensed  loggers, 
operating  on  a  total  area  of  4.74  million  hectares,  cut  an  estimat- 
ed 4.2  millon  cubic  meters  of  logs  and  exported  644  million  board 
feet.  The  contribution  of  logs  and  lumber  to  total  Philippine  ex- 
ports declined  from  25  percent  in  1969  to  2  percent  in  1988. 

In  addition  to  the  officially  sanctioned  logging  industry,  there 
has  been  considerable  illegal  logging.  The  full  extent  of  this  activi- 
ty was  difficult  to  determine,  but  the  discrepancy  between  Philip- 
pine and  Japanese  statistics  on  log  exports  from  the  Philippines 
to  Japan  provided  one  source  of  information.  From  1955  through 
1986,  log  imports  from  the  Philippines,  according  to  Japanese  statis- 
tics, averaged  about  50  percent  more  than  log  exports  to  Japan 
according  to  Philippines  statistics.  In  1987  and  1988,  the  discrepancy 
was  considerably  reduced,  perhaps  an  indication  of  the  Aquino 
government's  stricter  enforcement  policy. 

Another  cause  of  deforestation  was  swidden  agriculture,  called 
kaingin  in  the  Philippines.  The  method  involves  burning  a  portion 
of  forest  area  to  produce  a  fertilizing  effect,  planting  a  series  of 
crops  for  two  or  three  years,  and  then,  after  the  soil  has  become 
depleted  of  nutrients,  moving  on  to  another  location  to  allow  the 
burned  out  area  to  rejuvenate.  Often  referred  to  as  slash-and-burn 
agriculture,  swidden  as  practiced  by  upland  Filipino  groups  was 
ecologically  sound  as  long  as  land  was  relatively  plentiful.  But  since 
the  1960s,  increased  use  of  land  for  logging  and  migration  of  landless 
peasants  from  lowland  areas  has  caused  a  scarcity  of  land.  Burned- 
over  areas  were  not  allowed  to  lay  fallow  for  a  sufficient  period, 
and  the  new  migrants  often  had  no  knowledge  of  sound  swidden 
practice.  As  a  result,  new  growth  was  not  allowed  to  mature  be- 
fore being  burned  over  again;  extensive  erosion  occurred,  and  once- 
forested  areas  were  transformed  into  grasslands. 

The  widespread  deforestation  caused  massive  ecological  destruc- 
tion. Beginning  in  the  early  1980s,  the  government  instituted  refor- 
estation programs  to  stem  the  destruction.  In  1981  Marcos  made 
the  granting  of  timber  concessions  conditional  on  the  concession- 
aire's reforesting.  After  his  ouster,  however,  the  new  secretary  of  the 
Department  of  Environment  and  Natural  Resources  reported  that 
90  percent  of  the  1 70  logging  companies  with  concessions  had  failed 
to  implement  reforestation  activities.  The  Aquino  administration 


152 


The  Economy 


also  launched  a  reforestation  program  to  replant  100,000  hectares 
per  year,  but  it  too  met  with  limited  success.  In  1988,  two  years 
into  the  program,  the  government  reforested  32,000  hectares  and 
awarded  reforestation  contracts  for  another  4,500  hectares.  Other 
initiatives  included  a  program  to  employ  upland  dwellers  in 
reforestation,  limiting  the  extent  of  timber  concessions,  and  con- 
trolling exports  of  forest  products.  Nongovernment,  environmen- 
tal organizations  also  became  involved  in  forest  preservation  efforts. 
One  official  noted  that  with  more  than  5  million  hectares  of  forests 
already  denuded,  and  with  a  deforestation  rate  of  1 19,000  hectares 
per  year,  the  country  would  be  facing  a  timber  famine  within  a 
decade.  Second-growth  forests  were  too  young  to  cut,  so  timber 
requirements  for  the  near  term  would  have  to  be  met  from  the  re- 
maining old-forest  stands,  leaving  inadequate  reserves  for  the  medi- 
um term. 

Fishing 

The  Philippines  is  surrounded  by  a  vast  aquatic  resource  base 
(see  Physical  Setting,  ch.  2).  In  1976  the  government  adopted  a 
200-nautical-mile  exclusive  economic  zone  covering  some  2.2  mil- 
lion square  kilometers.  However,  the  country's  traditional  fishing 
grounds  constituted  a  relatively  small  126,500-square-kilometer 
area.  Fish  and  other  seafood  provided  more  than  half  the  protein 
consumed  by  the  average  Filipino  household.  Total  fish  produc- 
tion in  1989  was  2.3  million  tons.  Of  this,  46  percent  was  caught 
by  some  574,000  municipal  and  subsistence  fishermen,  who  oper- 
ated small  boats  in  shallow  water,  customarily  no  more  than  three 
kilometers  offshore.  These  fishermen  were  among  the  poorest  of 
the  poor,  with  incomes  averaging  only  25  percent  of  the  national 
average.  Another  27  percent  of  the  catch  came  from  the  approxi- 
mately 45,000  commercial  fishermen.  An  equal  proportion  of  the 
total  catch  was  provided  by  the  fast-growing  aquaculture  indus- 
try. Prawn  production,  mostly  aquaculture,  developed  rapidly  in 
the  1980s,  averaging  31,000  tons  during  the  1984-87  period.  In 
1988  exports  of  fishery  products  amounted  to  US$407  million,  ap- 
proximately 6  percent  of  total  exports. 

During  much  of  the  1980s,  the  livelihood  of  small  municipal  and 
subsistence  fishermen  was  undermined  by  low  production,  stagnating 
at  approximately  1  million  tons  per  year.  A  number  of  factors  con- 
tributed to  the  low  production:  encroachment  of  commercial  fisher- 
men into  shallow  waters,  destruction  of  the  marine  environment, 
over-fishing,  and  construction  of  an  increasing  number  of  fish  ponds. 
A  large  proportion  of  the  mangrove  forests  was  cleared  to  construct 
fishponds,  seriously  damaging  the  coastal  ecological  system.  Coral 


153 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


reefs  sustained  serious  damage  from  illegal  fishing  with  dynamite 
and  cyanide,  and  from  the  muro-ami  fishing  technique  by  which 
young  swimmers  pound  the  coral  with  rocks  attached  to  ropes  to 
drive  the  fish  into  nets.  Coral  also  was  damaged  by  silting  from 
erosion  caused  by  deforestation,  and  inland  freshwater  lakes  were 
polluted  from  industrial  and  agricultural  wastes. 

Industry 

Manufacturing 

Immediately  after  independence,  the  government  concentrated 
its  efforts  on  reconstructing  and  rehabilitating  the  war-damaged 
economy.  In  1949  import  and  foreign  exchange  controls  were  im- 
posed to  alleviate  a  balance  of  payments  problem.  Imports  fell  dra- 
matically, providing  a  stimulus  for  the  development  of  light  industry 
oriented  toward  the  domestic  market.  Manufacturing  growth  was 
rapid,  averaging  9.9  percent  per  year  during  the  1950s.  Initially, 
textiles,  food  manufactures,  tobacco,  plastics,  and  light  fabrication 
of  metals  dominated.  There  also  was  some  assembly  of  automo- 
biles and  trucks  and  construction  of  truck  and  bus  bodies.  By  the 
early  1960s,  however,  manufacturing  growth  declined  to  slightly 
less  than  the  growth  of  GNP.  The  share  of  the  labor  force  in 
manufacturing  in  1988  was  10.4  percent,  less  than  it  was  in  1956, 
although  the  share  had  grown  to  12  percent  in  1990. 

By  the  late  1980s,  and  in  part  the  consequence  of  local  content 
laws  that  were  intended  to  enhance  linkage  among  various  manufac- 
turing industries  and  increase  self-sufficiency,  the  industrial  struc- 
ture had  become  more  complex,  with  intermediate  and  capital  goods 
industries  relatively  large  for  a  country  at  the  Philippines'  stage 
of  development  (see  table  10,  Appendix).  By  the  mid-1980s,  an 
ambitious  US$6  billion  industrial  development  program  originally 
undertaken  by  the  Marcos  regime  in  1979  had  resulted  in  opera- 
tional copper  smelter-refinery,  coco-chemical  manufacturing,  and 
phosphatic  fertilizer  projects.  A  cement-industry  rehabilitation  and 
expansion  program  and  an  integrated  iron  and  steel  mill  project 
were  still  underway.  A  petrochemical  complex  appeared  about  to 
be  undertaken  in  1990,  but  was  bogged  down  in  a  dispute  over 
location  and  financing. 

Manufacturing  output  fell  in  the  political  and  economic  crisis 
of  1983,  and  industry  in  1985  was  working  at  as  low  as  40  percent 
of  capacity.  By  the  middle  of  1988,  after  economic  pump  priming 
by  the  Aquino  regime,  industries  were  again  working  at  full  ca- 
pacity. In  1990  the  Board  of  Investments  approved  investment 


154 


The  Economy 


projects  valued  at  US$3.75  billion,  including  US$1 .48  billion  tar- 
geted to  the  manufacturing  sector. 

Manufacturing  production  is  geographically  concentrated.  In 
1990,  50  percent  of  industrial  output  came  from  Metro  Manila  (see 
Glossary)  and  another  20  percent  from  the  adjoining  regions  of 
Southern  Tagalog  and  Central  Luzon  (see  fig.  6).  Prior  to  1986, 
government  efforts  to  distribute  industry  more  evenly  were  largely 
ineffective.  In  the  post-Marcos  economic  recovery,  however,  in- 
vestment grew  in  small  and  medium-sized  firms  producing  handi- 
crafts, furniture,  electronics,  garments,  footwear,  and  canned  goods 
in  areas  outside  of  Metro  Manila,  particularly  in  Cebu  City  and 
Davao  City. 

In  1990  the  industrial  sector  was  inefficient  and  oligopolistic. 
Although  small-  and  medium-sized  firms  accounted  for  80  percent 
of  manufacturing  employment,  they  accounted  for  only  25  percent 
of  the  value  added  in  manufacturing.  Most  industrial  output  was 
concentrated  in  a  few,  large  establishments.  For  example,  a  six- 
month  Senate  inquiry  determined  in  1990  that  eight  of  the  coun- 
try's seventeen  cement-manufacturing  companies  were  under  the 
control  of  a  single  firm. 

Mining 

The  1980s  were  difficult  for  mining  in  the  Philippines.  In  1990 
the  mining  and  quarrying  sector  contributed  1.5  percent  of  GNP, 
approximately  half  the  percentage  it  had  accounted  for  ten  years 
earlier.  Mineral  exports  were  5.4  percent  of  merchandise  trade  in 
1988,  whereas  in  1980  they  constituted  17.8  percent.  Rising  oper- 
ational costs  and  a  depressed  market  severely  affected  the  indus- 
try. In  1990  mining  operations  suffered  from  labor  disputes,  higher 
mandated  wages,  higher  interest  rates,  typhoons,  an  earthquake, 
and  power  shortages. 

In  the  1990s,  the  Philippines  still  had  large  deposits  of  copper, 
chromium,  gold,  and  nickel,  plus  smaller  deposits  of  cadmium, 
iron,  lead,  manganese,  mercury,  molybdenum,  and  silver.  Indus- 
trial minerals  included  asbestos,  gypsum,  limestone,  marble,  phos- 
phate, salt,  and  sulfur.  Mineral  fuels  included  coal  and  petroleum. 

In  1988  the  Philippines  was  the  sixth  largest  producer  of  chro- 
mium in  the  world  and  ranked  ninth  in  gold  production  and  tenth 
in  copper  production.  The  country's  nickel-mining  company, 
Nonoc  Mining  and  Industrial  Corporation,  ceased  operation  in 
March  1986  because  of  financial  and  labor  difficulties.  The  Asset 
Privatization  Trust,  a  government  entity  in  charge  of  selling  firms 
acquired  by  the  government  through  foreclosure  proceedings,  sold 
Nonoc  in  late  1990.  The  new  owners  expected  to  resume  operations 


155 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Copper 

Gold  and  silver 

@ 

Zinc 

(§) 

Nickel 

@ 

Chromite 

® 

Iron 

Petroleum 

Coal 

® 

National  capital 

• 

Populated  place 

Hydroelectric  power 

[1 

Geothermal  power 

B 

Petroleum  or  coal-fired 

power 

Chemicals 

Cement 

Refined  petroleum 

■ 

Fabricated  metal  products 

Smelted  and  processed 

metals 

|w] 

Forest  products 

B 

Food  and  tobacco 

S 

Textiles  and  fibers 

0 

75       150  Kilometers 

0 

75            150  Miles 

SAMAR 


Davao 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States,  Department  of  the  Interior,  Bureau  of 
Mines,  Mineral  Industries  of  the  Far  East  and  South  Asia,  Washington,  1988,  100-109. 


Figure  6.  Major  Industrial  Activity,  1988 


156 


The  Economy 


in  the  middle  of  1991  and  produce  some  28,700  tons  a  year,  which 
would  again  make  nickel  a  major  export  earner  for  the  Philippines. 

Energy 

During  the  1970s  and  1980s,  the  Philippines  sought  growth  and 
self-sufficiency  in  energy  production.  In  1972  the  government  al- 
tered the  legal  arrangements  for  oil  exploration  from  concessions 
to  service  contracts,  and  serious  oil  exploration  began  in  the  mid- 
and  late  1970s.  As  a  result  of  exploration  in  the  Palawan-Sulu 
seabed,  oil  was  discovered  in  the  Nido  oil  field  in  1976.  Commer- 
cial production  began  in  1979  and  yielded  8.8  million  barrels.  Suc- 
cessful wells  also  were  drilled  in  the  Cadlao  and  Matinloc  fields 
off  Palawan  in  1981  and  1982,  but  the  fields  were  relatively  small. 
The  level  of  production  varied  during  the  1980s  but  never  exceeded 
5  million  barrels  in  any  one  year.  In  1988  local  production — 2.2 
million  barrels — accounted  for  only  3  percent  of  domestic  oil  use 
(see  table  11,  Appendix).  A  study  released  in  early  1990,  indicat- 
ing that  the  geology  of  the  Philippines  was  a  favorable  indicator 
of  possible  additional  petroleum  deposits,  was  used  by  the  govern- 
ment to  encourage  oil  exploration  firms.  Production-sharing  ar- 
rangements allowed  a  firm  first  to  recover  the  cost  of  its  investment, 
after  which  60  percent  of  profits  would  go  to  the  government.  In 
December  1990,  there  were  new  discoveries  of  oil  and  natural  gas 
off  the  northwest  coast  of  Palawan  Island.  Tests  showed  that  the 
oil  well  could  have  a  flow  rate  of  6,000  barrels  per  day,  with  potential 
reserves  of  about  1  billion  barrels. 

Between  1973  and  1983,  power  generation  increased  at  an  an- 
nual rate  of  7.0  percent,  two  percentage  points  above  the  growth 
rate  of  real  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary).  In  1988 
the  National  Power  Corporation,  which  produced  approximately 
90  percent  of  the  country's  electricity,  had  a  generating  capacity 
of  5,772  megawatts.  Of  that,  42  percent  was  from  oil-burning  plants 
and  7  percent  from  dual  oil-coal  facilities.  An  additional  37  per- 
cent was  from  hydroelectric  plants,  and  just  under  15  percent  was 
from  geothermal  plants. 

The  Philippines  had  a  wealth  of  potential  energy  resources.  It 
ranked  second  behind  the  United  States  in  production  of  electricity 
from  geothermal  sources.  Installed  capacity  in  1988  was  828  mega- 
watts; estimated  potential  was  35,000  megawatts.  Undeveloped 
hydroelectric  potential  of  3,771  megawatts  also  was  identified. 
Coal  resources,  estimated  to  be  1.2  billion  tons,  also  were  plen- 
tiful, although  of  a  rather  poor  grade  for  electrical  generation. 
In  addition  to  these  sources,  solar,  animal  waste,  agriwaste,  and 
other  nonconventional  sources  were  utilized  for  generating  small 


157 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


amounts  of  electricity  and  other  energy  needs  in  rural  areas.  Together 
they  accounted  for  about  15  percent  of  energy  consumption. 

In  1990  the  Philippines  was  confronted  with  a  crisis  of  insuffi- 
cient electrical  generating  capacity.  Metro  Manila  and  the  thirty- 
three  provinces  in  the  Luzon  power  grid  experienced  brownouts 
of  up  to  four  hours  per  day,  with  the  grid  averaging  a  daily  defi- 
ciency of  262  megawatts.  At  the  root  of  the  problem  was  the  deci- 
sion by  the  Marcos  regime  to  build  a  620  megawatt  nuclear-power 
plant  on  the  Bataan  Peninsula.  The  Aquino  government  decided 
not  to  use  the  facility  because  it  was  located  on  a  seismic  fault.  As 
a  result,  a  badly  needed  expansion  of  generating  capacity  in  Lu- 
zon, which  accounted  for  75  percent  of  national  electric  consump- 
tion, did  not  come  on  line.  The  problem  was  compounded  by 
inadequate  planning  and  bureaucratic  delays.  There  were  delays 
in  the  building  of  a  facility  capable  of  generating  110  megawatts 
of  geothermal  power  in  Albay  Province  and  a  300  megawatt  coal- 
fired  plant  in  Batangas  Province.  The  short-term  solution  was  to 
put  up  a  series  of  gas-turbine  plants  with  a  combined  rating  of  500 
megawatts.  Only  245  megawatts  came  on  stream  between  1987 
and  1989.  Economists  estimated  that  to  achieve  a  5.6  percent  growth 
rate  in  real  GNP,  the  country  would  need  an  additional  300 
megawatts  of  generating  capacity  yearly. 

Efforts  also  were  being  made  to  expand  the  country's  rural  elec- 
trification program.  In  1985  it  covered  the  franchise  area  of  some 
120  electrical  cooperatives,  reaching  around  2.7  million  households. 
The  government  planned  to  expand  the  coverage  to  some  4  mil- 
lion households  by  1992. 

The  Service  Sector 
Finance 

The  Philippine  financial  system  in  the  early  1990s  was  composed 
of  banking  institutions  and  nonbank  financial  intermediaries,  in- 
cluding commercial  banks,  specialized  government  banks,  thrift 
and  rural  banks,  offshore  banking  units,  building  and  loan  associ- 
ations, investment  and  brokerage  houses,  and  finance  companies. 
The  Central  Bank  and  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission 
maintained  regulatory  and  supervisory  control.  The  Philippines 
had  a  relatively  sophisticated  banking  system;  however,  the  level  of 
financial  intermediation  was  low  relative  to  the  size  of  the  econo- 
my. In  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s,  a  number  of  policy  reforms 
were  initiated  to  strengthen  the  system,  but  financial  crises  in  1981 
and  1983  short-circuited  their  full  effect.  The  financial  communi- 
ty has  undertaken  recovery  efforts  since  1986. 


158 


Jeepney,  customized  jeep  used  extensively  for  public  transportation 

Courtesy  Robert  L.  Worden 

Until  the  economic  crisis  of  the  mid-1980s,  the  largest  commer- 
cial bank  in  the  Philippines  was  the  government-owned  Philippine 
National  Bank.  Created  in  1916  to  provide  agricultural  credit  for 
export  crops,  the  Philippine  National  Bank  accounted  for  25  per- 
cent to  30  percent  of  commercial  bank  assets  in  the  1970s  and  early 
1980s.  As  the  result  of  the  accumulation  of  nonperforming  assets, 
by  1987  the  asset  share  of  the  Philippine  National  Bank  had  fallen 
by  half.  In  1988  there  were  twenty  privately-owned  domestic  banks 
and  four  branches  of  foreign  banks  engaged  in  commercial  bank- 
ing. Since  the  passage  of  the  General  Banking  Act  of  1948,  for- 
eign investment  in  banking  has  been  limited  to  40  percent  of 
domestic  bank  equity.  Total  assets  of  the  commercial  banking  sys- 
tem in  1988  were  about  P330  billion. 

The  Philippine  government  controlled  three  specialized  banks 
in  1991 :  the  Development  Bank  of  the  Philippines,  the  Land  Bank 
of  the  Philippines,  and  the  Philippine  Amanah  Bank.  The  Develop- 
ment Bank  of  the  Philippines,  established  in  1946  and  initially 
designed  to  facilitate  postwar  rehabilitation,  provided  long-term 
finance.  It  supplied  47  percent  of  long-term  loans  and  15  percent 
of  the  medium-term  loans.  More  than  70  percent  of  its  loans  were 
allocated  to  industry.  The  Land  Bank  of  the  Philippines,  estab- 
lished in  the  early  1970s,  financed  the  government  land  reform 


159 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

program.  The  Philippine  Amanah  Bank,  organized  in  the  mid- 
1970s,  served  Muslims  in  the  southern  Philippines.  Offshore  bank- 
ing units  have  been  allowed  to  do  business  in  the  Philippines  since 
1977.  Also  since  1977,  certain  domestic  banks  have  been  allowed 
to  take  foreign-currency  deposits  and  engage  in  foreign-currency 
lending. 

From  its  inception  in  1948  until  1980,  the  Central  Bank  exten- 
sively regulated  the  commercial  banking  system  and  engaged  in 
considerable  rediscounting  activity.  Interest  rates  were  set  adminis- 
tratively, usually  below  the  market  clearing  rate.  Commercial  bank 
lending  tended  to  be  short-term  and  granted  to  known,  established 
borrowers.  The  system  had  periods  of  instability  with  several  bank 
runs  and  a  few  failures.  In  1980,  at  the  instigation  of  the  World 
Bank  and  the  IMF,  several  measures  were  passed  to  increase  com- 
petition in  the  financial  sector,  achieve  greater  efficiency,  and  in- 
crease borrowers'  access  to  long-term  funds.  Large  banks  with  a 
net  worth  of  at  least  P500  million  could  engage  in  expanded  com- 
mercial banking,  or  "unibanking,"  combining  commercial  and 
investment  banking  activities.  In  1988  there  were  eight  unibanks, 
including  the  Philippine  National  Bank.  Further  liberalization  had 
occurred  in  1983,  when  interest  rates  shifted  from  being  ad- 
ministered to  being  market-determined. 

Interest-rate  ceilings  had  led  to  an  excess  demand  for  loans  and 
credit  rationing.  The  Malacanang  Palace  interfered  in  loan  deci- 
sions regarding  state-owned  banks,  weakening  the  quality  of  bank 
portfolios.  It  was  argued  that  a  market-determined  interest  rate 
would  make  such  behavior  less  rewarding  and  more  difficult. 
However,  before  the  interest  rate  reform  could  be  initiated  and 
before  the  expanded  commercial  bank  reform  had  an  impact  on 
the  banking  industry,  a  series  of  crises  hit  the  Philippines,  throw- 
ing the  country's  financial  system  into  disarray. 

The  economic  and  political  crisis  that  occurred  in  the  aftermath 
of  the  assassination  of  Marcos's  political  rival,  Benigno  Aquino, 
resulted  in  a  virtual  collapse  of  much  of  the  banking  industry,  par- 
ticularly the  smaller  institutions.  The  larger  banks  suffered  sub- 
stantial losses  from  the  drastic  devaluations  of  the  peso  between 
1983  and  1985.  Commercial  bank  loans  increased  slightiy  in  1984, 
but  then  fell  almost  30  percent  in  the  following  two  years — from 
PI  16  billion  to  P83  billion — before  turning  upward  again.  Infla- 
tion during  that  three-year  period  was  almost  80  percent.  The  two 
largest  financial  intermediaries,  the  Philippine  National  Bank  and 
Development  Bank  of  the  Philippines,  became  insolvent,  and  a 
number  of  financial  institutions  failed,  including  the  three  largest 


160 


The  Economy 


investment  houses,  three  commercial  banks,  the  majority  of  the 
more  than  1,000  rural  banks,  and  the  largest  savings  bank. 

The  Aquino  government  undertook  a  rehabilitation  program  for 
the  Philippine  National  Bank  and  Development  Bank  of  the  Philip- 
pines. In  1986  nonperforming  assets  of  the  two  institutions  were 
transferred  to  the  government,  reducing  the  value  of  the  assets  of 
the  Philippine  National  Bank  by  67  percent  and  that  of  the  De- 
velopment Bank  of  the  Philippines  by  87  percent.  The  relative  im- 
portance of  these  two  banks  in  the  financial  sector  diminished 
dramatically.  The  domestically  owned  commercial  banking  sector, 
however,  became  more  concentrated.  From  the  mid-1950s  to  the 
early  1980s,  the  five  largest  private  domestic  commercial  banks  ac- 
counted for  about  35  percent  of  total  assets  of  the  private  domestic 
commercial  banks.  By  1988  that  ratio  had  risen  to  around  55  per- 
cent. The  combined  assets  of  the  five  private  domestic  commer- 
cial banks,  the  Philippine  National  Bank,  and  the  two  largest  foreign 
branch  banks  accounted  for  two-thirds  of  total  commercial  bank 
assets,  up  from  56  percent  in  1980. 

In  1990  the  six  largest  commercial  banks  earned  an  estimated 
P7.9  billion  in  after-tax  profits,  an  increase  of  42  percent  over  1989, 
which  in  turn  was  a  32  percent  increase  over  1988.  A  1991  World 
Bank  memorandum  noted  that  the  extent  of  bank  profits  indicat- 
ed a  "lack  of  competition"  and  a  ''market  structure  for  financial 
services  characterized  by  oligopoly."  Philippine  banks  had  the 
widest  interest  rate  spread  (loan  rate  minus  deposit  rate)  in 
Southeast  Asia. 

Transportation 

In  1988  there  were  157,000  kilometers  of  roads,  26,000  of  which 
were  designated  national  (arterial)  roads.  Somewhat  less  than  50 
percent  of  national  roads  were  all-weather.  The  Pan-Philippine 
Highway,  also  called  the  Maharlika  Highway,  running  from  Laoag 
City  in  Ilocos  Norte  to  Zamboanga  City  at  the  southwest  tip  of 
Mindanao,  was  the  country's  main  trunk  road  (see  fig.  7).  The 
highway  passed  through  twenty-one  provinces.  In  the  1980s,  the 
national  road  system  increased  by  10  percent,  and  the  portion  that 
was  surfaced  with  asphalt  or  concrete  increased  by  20  percent.  The 
planning  target  for  1992  called  for  100  percent  of  arterial  roads 
to  be  all-weather  and  95  percent  to  be  paved.  Local  roads,  however, 
were  allowed  to  deteriorate.  The  condition  of  many  roads  was  poor 
because  of  low  design  standards,  substandard  construction,  inade- 
quate maintenance,  and  damage  from  over-loaded  vehicles.  A  pro- 
gram of  rehabilitation  and  improvement  of  the  local  road  system 
was  part  of  the  plan  objectives. 


161 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

In  1988,  1.3  million  motor  vehicles  were  registered  with  the 
Bureau  of  Land  Transportation.  About  22  percent  were  motorcy- 
cles; 30  percent  were  private  automobiles,  and  38  percent  were  util- 
ity vehicles.  A  large  number  of  the  utility  vehicles  were  jeepneys, 
jeeps  converted  for  hire  to  carry  passengers.  In  the  late  1980s,  Metro 
Manila  experienced  a  combination  of  heavy  traffic  congestion  and 
a  shortage  of  transportation,  reflecting  an  increasing  number  of 
private  automobiles  and  an  insufficient  number  of  public  convey- 
ance vehicles.  A  1989  estimate  indicated  a  shortage  of  3,200  buses 
and  21,700  jeepneys  in  the  Manila  area,  and  many  of  the  taxis 
and  buses  in  Metro  Manila  were  very  old. 

In  1991  there  were  two  international  airports:  Manila's  Ninoy 
Aquino  International  Airport  and  Mactan  International  Airport 
near  Cebu  City.  Slightly  over  1  million  visitors  arrived  in  the  Philip- 
pines by  air  in  1988.  About  half  of  the  national  airports  were  served 
by  the  main  domestic  and  international  carrier,  Philippine  Air 
Lines.  No  additional  airport  construction  was  anticipated  in  the 
Medium-Term  Development  Plan,  1987-92.  Thereafter,  Ma- 
nila's international  airport,  which  is  too  small  to  handle  expected 
increases  in  air  traffic,  would  need  to  be  relocated.  During  the  talks 
between  the  United  States  and  the  Philippines  in  1990  concerning 
the  future  of  the  two  major  United  States  military  facilities  in  the 
Philippines,  there  was  public  discussion  of  relocating  the  interna- 
tional airport  to  the  United  States  facility,  Clark  Air  Base,  and  mak- 
ing Ninoy  Aquino  a  domestic  airport. 

There  was  a  network  of  622  public  and  314  private  seaports  in 
the  Philippine  archipelago  in  the  late  1980s.  Six  ports — Manila, 
Cebu,  Iloilo,  Cagayan  de  Oro,  Zamboanga,  and  Davao — handled 
approximately  80  percent  of  public  port  traffic.  In  1988  a  major 
construction  project  was  underway  at  the  Manila  International  Con- 
tainer Terminal.  There  were  an  ongoing  series  of  port  improve- 
ment projects,  plans  for  a  fishing  port  program,  and  a  program 
to  develop  roll-on-roll-off  capacity  in  order  to  link  sea  and  road 
transportation  systems. 

In  1987  there  were  more  than  3,000  passenger  and  cargo  ships 
in  the  interisland  shipping  industry,  with  a  total  registered  cargo 
tonnage  of  417,500  tons.  The  ships  accounted  for  about  85  per- 
cent of  interisland  cargo  movements  and  nearly  10  percent  of 
passenger-kilometers  traveled  nationwide.  Somewhat  less  than  one- 
third  of  the  ships  were  liner  vessels;  the  remainder  were  tramp  ships. 
Liner  ships  were  generally  imported  secondhand  from  Japan  and 
in  1987  had  an  average  age  of  about  nineteen  years.  Although  the 
industry  was  highly  regulated,  it  was  criticized  for  moving  goods 


162 




Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


The  Economy 


slowly  and  inefficiently  and  for  safety  violations,  particularly  over- 
loading passengers  during  peak  periods  of  travel. 

The  Philippines  in  1 990  had  one  main  railroad  line  running  north 
out  of  Manila  266  kilometers  to  San  Fernando  City  in  La  Union 
Province  and  474  kilometers  south  to  Legaspi  City  in  Albay 
Province.  The  system  had  deteriorated  over  the  years,  with  utili- 
zation declining  to  a  tenth  of  the  passenger  traffic  and  a  twentieth 
of  the  freight  carried  in  1960.  In  the  first  10  months  of  1990,  the 
railroad  carried  30,000  tons  of  freight,  down  from  48,000  in  1989. 
During  the  same  period,  passenger  service  turned  around,  however, 
climbing  from  210  million  passenger-kilometers  in  1989  to  226  mil- 
lion in  1990. 

The  Philippine  National  Railroad  began  a  project  in  1990-91 
to  upgrade  its  southern  track  system,  utilizing  a  PI. 2  billion  loan 
from  Japan.  When  completed  in  1993,  the  upgraded  system  would 
cut  travel  time  from  Manila  to  Bicol  substantially. 

In  1984  a  Light  Rail  Transit  system  began  operation  in  Metro 
Manila,  running  from  Baclaran  in  the  south  to  Monumento  in  the 
North.  The  fifteen-kilometer  system  provided  some  relief  from 
Metro  Manila's  highly  congested  traffic  network. 

Telecommunications  and  Postal  Services 

The  Philippine  telecommunication  system  in  1989  consisted  of 
some  fifty-five  telephone  companies,  seven  domestic  record  carri- 
ers, four  international  record  carriers,  and  two  satellite  ground  sta- 
tions. Approximately  70  percent  of  the  country's  telephone  lines 
were  located  in  Metro  Manila.  In  1989  there  were  4.7  telephones 
per  100  persons  in  Metro  Manila  but  only  0.8  telephones  per  100 
persons  in  the  country  as  a  whole.  The  country  had  approximate- 
ly 380  radio  stations  broadcasting  to  4  million  receivers  in  English 
and  all  the  major  Philippine  languages  and  dialects,  and  42  televi- 
sion stations  transmitting  to  6  million  receivers,  mainly  in  Filipi- 
no and  English.  The  mail  volume  handled  by  the  more  than  2,000 
post  offices  in  the  Philippines  doubled  from  approximately  400  mil- 
lion pieces  in  1979  to  approximately  800  million  pieces  in  1988. 

Tourism 

Tourism  developed  rapidly  in  the  1970s,  with  visitors  number- 
ing 1  million  in  1980.  Thereafter,  the  industry  went  into  a  slump, 
reaching  the  1  million  visitor  mark  again  only  in  1988.  In  that  year, 
the  average  length  of  stay  was  12.6  days,  up  from  8.9  days  in  1987. 
Many  of  the  visitors,  however,  were  emigrant  Filipinos  returning 
for  periodic  visits  with  families  and  friends.  In  1988  an  average 
of  73  percent  of  Manila's  8,500  hotel  rooms  were  occupied. 


165 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Estimates  of  tourist  revenue  varied  considerably.  In  1988  the 
Central  Bank  estimated  it  at  US$405  million,  11  percent  of  the 
country's  nonmerchandise  exports.  Using  a  different  formula,  the 
Department  of  Tourism  estimated  tourism  earnings  at  US$1.45 
billion.  Most  tourists  entered  the  country  through  Manila,  but  the 
city  had  relatively  few  amenities  and  suffered  from  congestion,  pol- 
lution, and  crime.  Intramuros,  the  colonial  Spanish  walled  city, 
had  not  been  fully  restored  since  its  destruction  at  the  end  of  World 
War  II.  Political  instability  in  the  country  during  the  1980s  also 
was  a  deterrent  to  tourism.  The  Medium-Term  Development  Plan 
called  for  promotion  of  both  domestic  and  international  tourism. 

Employment  and  Labor  Relations 

A  high  rate  of  population  growth,  lack  of  access  to  land,  insuf- 
ficient job  creation  in  industry,  and  a  history  of  inappropriate 
economic  policies  contributed  to  high  unemployment  and  under- 
employment and  a  relatively  high  proportion  of  the  labor  force 
being  in  low-productivity,  service  sector  jobs  in  the  late  1980s.  Real 
wages  were  low,  having  declined  at  about  3  percent  per  year  since 
1960,  and  relatively  weak  labor  unions  were  unable  to  substan- 
tially affect  the  deterioration  of  workers'  earning  power. 

Labor  Force  and  Employment 

Population  growth  averaged  2.9  percent  from  1965  to  1980  and 
2.5  percent  in  the  late  1980s  (see  Population  Growth,  ch.  2).  Despite 
the  fact  that  more  than  40  percent  of  the  population  was  below 
fifteen  years  of  age,  the  growth  of  the  working- age  population — 
those  fifteen  years  of  age  and  older — was  even  more  rapid  than 
total  population  growth.  In  the  1980s,  the  working-age  population 
grew  by  2.7  percent  annually.  In  addition,  the  labor  force  partici- 
pation rate — the  proportion  of  working-age  people  who  were  in 
the  labor  force — rose  approximately  5  percentage  points  during  the 
1980s,  largely  because  of  the  increase  in  the  proportion  of  women 
entering  the  work  force.  Hence  the  actual  labor  force  grew  by 
750,000  people,  or  approximately  4  percent,  each  year  during  the 
1980s. 

Agriculture,  which  had  provided  most  employment,  employed 
only  approximately  45  percent  of  the  work  force  in  1990,  down 
from  60  percent  in  1960.  Manufacturing  industry  was  not  able  to 
make  up  the  difference.  Manufacturing's  share  of  employed  peo- 
ple remained  stable  at  about  12  percent  in  1990. 

The  service  sector  (commerce,  finance,  transportation,  and  a  host 
of  private  and  public  services),  perforce,  became  the  residual  em- 
ployer, accounting  for  almost  40  percent  of  the  work  force  in  1988 


166 


The  Economy 


as  contrasted  with  25  percent  in  1960.  Much  of  this  growth  was 
in  small-scale  enterprises  or  self-employment  activities  such  as  hawk- 
ing and  vending,  repair  work,  transportation,  and  personal  ser- 
vices. Such  endeavors  are  often  referred  to  as  the  "informal  sector," 
because  of  the  lack  of  record  keeping  by  such  enterprises  and  a 
relative  freedom  from  government  regulation,  monitoring,  or 
reporting.  Informal  sector  occupations  were  characterized  by  low 
productivity,  modest  fixed  assets,  long  hours  of  work,  and  low 
wages.  According  to  a  1988  study  of  urban  poor  in  Metro  Manila, 
Cebu,  and  Davao  cities  published  in  the  Philippine  Economic  Jour- 
nal, more  than  half  of  the  respondents  engaged  in  informal  sector 
work  as  their  primary  income-generating  activity. 

Unemployment,  which  had  averaged  about  4.5  percent  during 
the  1970s,  increased  drastically  following  the  economic  crises  of 
the  early  1980s,  peaking  in  early  1989  at  11.4  percent.  Urban  areas 
fared  worse;  unemployment  in  mid- 1990,  for  example,  remained 
above  15  percent  in  Metro  Manila. 

Beyond  the  unemployment  generated  from  economic  mis- 
management and  crises  was  a  more  long-term,  structural  employ- 
ment problem,  a  consequence  of  the  highly  concentrated  control 
of  productive  assets  and  the  inadequate  number  of  work  places  creat- 
ed by  investment  in  the  industrial  economy.  The  size  and  growth 
of  the  service  sector  was  one  indicator.  Underemployment  was 
another. 

Underemployment  has  been  predominantly  a  problem  for  poor, 
less  educated,  and  older  people.  The  unemployed  have  tended  to 
be  young,  inexperienced  entrants  into  the  labor  force,  who  were 
relatively  well  educated  and  not  heads  of  households.  In  the  first 
half  of  the  1980s,  approximately  20  percent  of  male  household  heads 
and  35  percent  of  female  household  heads  were  unable  to  find  more 
than  forty  days  of  work  a  quarter. 

Overseas  migration  absorbed  a  significant  amount  of  Philippine 
labor.  From  the  late  1940s  through  the  1970s,  migrants  were  largely 
Filipino  members  of  the  United  States  armed  services,  profession- 
als, and  relatives  of  those  who  had  previously  migrated.  After  liber- 
alization of  the  United  States  Immigration  and  Nationality  Act  in 
October  1965,  the  number  of  United  States  immigrant  visas  is- 
sued to  Filipinos  increased  dramatically  from  approximately  2,500 
in  1965  to  more  than  25,000  in  1970.  Most  of  those  emigrating 
were  professionals  and  their  families.  By  1990  Filipino-Americans 
numbered  1.4  million,  making  them  the  second  largest  Asian  com- 
munity in  the  United  States. 

In  the  1970s  and  1980s,  quite  a  different  flow  of  migration  de- 
veloped: most  emigrants  were  workers  engaged  in  contract  work 


167 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


in  the  Middle  East  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  elsewhere.  Although 
some  were  professionals,  the  majority  were  production,  construc- 
tion, and  transport  and  equipment  workers  or  operators,  as  well 
as  service  workers.  An  increasing  number  also  were  merchant  sea- 
men. Inasmuch  as  wages  paid  for  overseas  contract  work  have  been 
a  multiple  of  what  Filipinos  could  earn  at  home,  such  employment 
opportunities  have  been  in  great  demand.  Government  statistics 
show  that  overseas  placements  of  land-based  workers  increased  from 
12,500  in  1975  to  385,000  in  1988,  a  growth  rate  of  about  30  per- 
cent per  annum.  The  number  of  seamen  also  increased,  from  23,500 
in  1975,  to  almost  86,000  in  1988.  The  average  stay  abroad  was 

3.1  years  for  land-based  workers  and  6.3  years  for  seamen. 

In  1982  the  Philippine  Overseas  Employment  Administration 
was  established  in  the  Ministry  of  Labor  and  Employment.  The 
Philippine  Overseas  Employment  Administration  consolidated 
responsibility  for  regulating  overseas  land-based  workers  and  sea- 
men, supervising  recruitment,  as  well  as  adjudicating  complaints 
and  conflicts.  The  agency  also  was  tasked  with  promoting  employ- 
ment opportunities  abroad  for  Filipinos.  Overseas  employment 
created  two  benefits  for  the  economy:  jobs  and  foreign  exchange. 
The  total  number  of  placements  abroad  from  1980  through  1988, 

3.2  million,  was  about  one-half  the  growth  in  the  country's  labor 
supply  during  that  period.  Remittances  through  the  banking  sys- 
tem for  the  period  1983  to  1988  totaled  approximately  US$4.6  bil- 
lion, an  amount  equal  to  14  percent  of  merchandise  exports  during 
the  same  period.  The  Central  Bank  estimated  that  remittances  pass- 
ing through  "informal  channels"  might  be  as  much  as  twice  the 
documented  figure.  If  so,  export  of  labor  would  be  the  largest  sin- 
gle earner  of  foreign  exchange. 

Labor  Relations 

From  independence  in  1946  until  martial  law  was  declared  in 
1972,  the  government  encouraged  collective  bargaining  and,  ex- 
cept for  setting  up  a  commission  in  1970  to  supervise  the  fixing 
of  minimum  wages,  involved  itself  minimally  in  labor  relations. 
For  most  of  the  martial  law  period  (1972-81),  strikes  were  forbid- 
den or  severely  limited.  The  Marcos  labor  code  of  1974  made  ar- 
bitration compulsory.  The  right  to  strike  was  partially  restored  in 
1976,  but  with  considerable  restrictions.  The  Aquino  government 
took  a  somewhat  more  liberal  approach  to  labor,  but  some  of  the 
structures  of  the  Marcos  period  remained. 

Organized  labor  in  the  Philippines  has  been  relatively  weak.  In 
1986  it  was  estimated  that  about  2.2  million  Filipinos  were  part 
of  the  union  movement,  accounting  for  approximately  20  percent 


168 


Coastal  fishing,  mainly  with  wooden-hulled  outriggers, 
is  a  major  source  of  employment. 
Courtesy  Philippine  Tourist  Research  and  Planning  Organization 

of  the  wage-and-salary  work  force,  or  10  percent  of  the  total  labor 
force.  These  workers  were  organized  into  some  2,000  unions,  half 
of  which  were  not  connected  to  a  national  union  or  federation.  In 
1987  only  350,000  workers  were  covered  by  collective  bargaining 
agreements. 

The  largest  union  body  was  the  Trade  Union  Congress  of  the 
Philippines  (TUCP).  Formed  in  December  1974,  it  was  desig- 
nated the  official  labor  center  of  the  Philippines  by  the  Marcos 
government.  Another  labor  organization,  the  Kilusang  Mayo  Uno 
(KMU),  or  the  May  First  Movement,  was  formed  in  July  1980, 
bringing  together  nine  broadly  based,  more  ideologically  oriented 
unions.  The  two  major  union  centers  represented  sharply  differ- 
ent visions  of  the  role  of  unions  in  society.  Although  TUCP  sup- 
ported Marcos,  it  represented  itself  as  a  proponent  of  nonpolitical 
unionism,  concerned  primarily  with  the  collective  bargaining 
process.  The  KMU  was  more  openly  political,  projecting  itself  as 
a  proponent  of  "genuine,  militant,  and  nationalist  unionism."  Going 
beyond  collective  bargaining,  the  KMU  called  for  the  formation 
of  worker  solidarity  movements  and  advocated  a  nationalist-oriented 
alternative  to  the  prevailing  economic  and  social  policies  of  the 
government.  The  Labor  Advisory  and  Consultative  Council 


169 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

(LACC),  formed  at  the  onset  of  the  Aquino  administration  in  1986 
by  then  Labor  Minister  Agusto  Sanchez,  drew  the  various  factions 
of  the  labor  movement  together  to  advise  the  Ministry  of  Labor 
and  Employment.  Membership  in  LACC  included  the  KMU,  the 
Federation  of  Free  Workers,  Lakas  Ng  Manggagawa  Labor  Center, 
and,  for  a  short  while,  the  TUCP. 

When  Aquino  came  into  office  in  1986,  she  had  the  backing  of 
a  wide  spectrum  of  the  population,  including  those  affiliated  with 
labor  unions.  In  her  May  1  speech  that  year,  before  a  large  and 
enthusiastic  gathering  of  labor  groups,  Aquino  presented  a  pack- 
age of  labor-law  reforms,  including  extending  the  right  to  strike, 
making  it  easier  to  petition  for  a  union  certification  election,  and 
abrogating  repressive  labor  legislation  decreed  by  the  Marcos 
government.  Soon,  however,  the  president  began  to  shift  ground 
as  she  received  vigorous  protests  by  both  Filipino  and  foreign 
businessmen  against  her  May  Day  promises.  The  pledges  were 
rethought,  modified  in  some  cases,  and  not  promulgated  in  others. 
This  willingness  to  respond  to  the  interests  of  the  boardroom  rather 
than  the  shop  floor  also  extended  to  official  appointments.  In  par- 
ticular, her  first  minister  of  labor,  Agusto  Sanchez,  was  considered 
to  be  too  prolabor  and  eased  out  within  a  year  of  his  appointment. 

The  TUCP  was  generally  supportive  of  the  Aquino  government, 
but  the  KMU  and  other  progressive  unions  resisted  the  conserva- 
tive drift  of  her  administration  through  strikes,  demonstrations, 
and  antigovernment  rallies.  The  KMU  gained  influence  through 
its  leadership  of  the  national  strike,  or  Welga  ng  Bayan,  in  1987, 
1989,  and  1990.  From  September  to  December  1990,  the  KMU 
led  a  series  of  general  strikes  in  response  to  dramatic  increases  in 
the  prices  of  petroleum  products.  These  labor  actions  were  note- 
worthy both  because  of  a  heightened  level  of  conflict  between  strikers 
and  the  authorities  and  because  of  the  participation  of  profession- 
als and  other  middle-class  groups. 

Repression  of  labor  activists,  widespread  during  the  Marcos  era, 
resurfaced  early  in  the  Aquino  administration.  In  November  1986, 
the  chairman  of  the  KMU  was  murdered.  The  following  January, 
the  army  opened  fire  on  a  march  of  the  Peasant  Movement  of  the 
Philippines  (Kilusang  Magbubukid  ng  Pilipinas — KMP)  and  their 
supporters  who  were  protesting  the  lack  of  government  action  on 
land  reform.  Eighteen  were  killed  and  nearly  100  wounded.  In  1990 
the  government  charged  two  KMU  labor  leaders  with  sedition: 
Medardo  Roda,  the  head  of  PISTON,  a  federation  of  drivers;  and 
Crispin  Beltran,  the  chairman  of  KMU.  Old  charges  of  slander 
and  fraud  dating  back  to  1967  and  1971  were  revived  against 
Beltran.  The  government  also  imprisoned  the  leader  of  the  KMP, 


170 


The  Economy 


Jaime  Tadeo,  on  ten-year-old  fraud  charges  initiated  against  him 
by  the  Marcos  government.  After  a  1990  violent  strike,  during 
which  an  estimated  500  participants  were  arrested,  both  the  mili- 
tary and  government  officials  suggested  banning  the  KMU  as  a 
communist-front  organization. 

Economic  Welfare 

In  1990  the  Philippines  had  not  yet  recovered  from  the  economic 
and  political  crisis  of  the  first  half  of  the  1980s.  At  PI 8,41 9,  or 
US$668,  per  capita,  GNP  in  1990  remained,  in  real  terms,  below 
the  level  of  1978.  A  major  thrust  of  Aquino's  1986  People  Power 
Revolution  was  to  address  the  needs  of  impoverished  Filipinos.  One 
of  the  four  principles  of  her  "Policy  Agenda  for  People-Powered 
Development"  was  promotion  of  social  justice  and  poverty  allevi- 
ation. Government  programs  launched  in  1986  and  1987  to  generate 
employment  met  with  some  success,  reversing  the  decline  of  the 
first  half  of  the  decade,  but  these  efforts  did  little  to  alleviate  the 
more  chronic  aspects  of  Philippine  poverty. 

Extent  of  Poverty 

Individuals  are  said  to  be  in  absolute  poverty  when  they  are  un- 
able to  obtain  at  least  a  specified  minimum  of  the  food,  clothing, 
and  shelter  that  are  considered  necessary  for  continued  survival. 
In  the  Philippines,  two  such  minimums  have  been  established.  The 
poverty  line  is  defined  in  terms  of  a  least-cost  consumption  basket 
of  food  that  provides  2,016  calories  and  50  grams  of  protein  per 
day  and  of  nonfood  items  consumed  by  families  in  the  lowest  quin- 
tile  of  the  population.  In  1988  the  poverty  line  for  a  family  of  six 
was  estimated  to  be  P2,709  per  month.  The  subsistence  level  is 
defined  as  the  income  level  that  allows  purchase  of  the  minimum 
food  requirements  only. 

In  1985  slightly  more  than  half  the  population  lived  below  the 
poverty  line,  about  the  same  proportion  as  in  1971.  The  propor- 
tion of  the  population  below  the  subsistence  level,  however,  declined 
from  approximately  35  percent  in  1971  to  28  percent  in  1985.  The 
economic  turndown  in  the  early  1980s  and  the  economic  and  po- 
litical crisis  of  1983  had  a  devastating  impact  on  living  standards. 

The  countryside  contained  a  disproportionate  share  of  the  poor. 
For  example,  more  than  80  percent  of  the  poorest  30  percent  of 
families  in  the  Philippines  lived  in  rural  areas  in  the  mid-1980s. 
The  majority  were  tenant  farmers  or  landless  agricultural  workers. 
The  landless  workers,  fishermen,  and  forestry  workers  were  found 
to  be  the  poorest  of  the  poor.  In  some  rural  regions — the  sugar- 
growing  region  on  the  island  of  Negros  being  the  most  egregious 


171 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

example — there  was  a  period  in  which  malnutrition  and  famine 
had  been  widespread. 

Urban  areas  also  were  hard  hit,  with  the  incidence  of  urban 
poverty  increasing  between  1971  and  1985  by  13  percentage  points 
to  include  half  the  urban  population.  The  urban  poor  generally 
lived  in  crowded  slum  areas,  often  on  land  or  in  buildings  without 
permission  of  the  owner;  hence,  they  were  referred  to  as  squatters 
(see  Urban  Social  Patterns,  ch.  2).  These  settlements  often  lacked 
basic  necessities  such  as  running  water,  sewerage,  and  electricity. 
According  to  a  1984  government  study,  44  percent  of  all  occupied 
dwellings  in  Metro  Manila  had  less  than  thirty  square  meters  of 
living  area,  and  the  average  monthly  expenditure  of  an  urban  poor 
family  was  PI, 315.  Of  this  amount,  62  percent  was  spent  on  food 
and  another  9  percent  on  transportation,  whereas  only  P57  was 
spent  on  rent  or  mortgage  payments,  no  doubt  because  of  the  ex- 
tent of  squatting  by  poor  families.  About  55  percent  of  the  poor 
surveyed  who  were  in  the  labor  force  worked  in  the  informal  sec- 
tor, generally  as  vendors  or  street  hawkers.  Other  activities  included 
service  and  repair  work,  construction,  transport  services,  or  petty 
production.  Women  and  children  under  fifteen  years  of  age  con- 
stituted almost  60  percent  of  those  employed.  The  majority  of  the 
individuals  surveyed  possessed  a  high  school  education,  and  30  per- 
cent had  a  skill  such  as  dressmaking,  electrical  repair,  plumbing, 
or  carpentry.  Nevertheless,  they  were  unable  to  secure  permanent, 
full-time  positions. 

Causes  of  Poverty 

From  one  perspective,  poverty  is  a  function  of  total  output  of 
an  economy  relative  to  its  population — GNP  per  capita — and  the 
distribution  of  that  income  among  families.  In  the  World  Bank's 
World  Development  Report,  1990,  the  Philippines  was  ranked  at  the 
lower  end  of  the  grouping  of  lower  middle-income  economies.  Given 
its  relative  position,  the  country  should  be  able  to  limit  the  extent 
of  poverty  with  a  reasonably  equitable  sharing  of  the  nation's  in- 
come. In  fact,  the  actual  distribution  of  income  was  highly  skewed 
(see  table  12,  Appendix).  Although  considerable  underreporting 
was  thought  to  occur  among  upper-income  families,  and  incorrect 
reporting  from  lack  of  information  was  common,  particularly  with 
respect  to  noncash  income,  the  data  were  adequate  to  provide  a 
broad  overview. 

In  1988  the  most  affluent  20  percent  of  families  in  the  Philip- 
pines received  more  than  50  percent  of  total  personal  income,  with 
most  going  to  the  top  10  percent.  Below  the  richest  10  percent  of 
the  population,  the  share  accruing  to  each  decile  diminished  rather 


172 


The  Economy 


gradually.  A  1988  World  Bank  poverty  report  suggested  that  there 
had  been  a  small  shift  toward  a  more  equal  distribution  of  income 
since  1961.  The  beneficiaries  appear  to  have  been  middle-income 
earners,  however,  rather  than  the  poor. 

The  World  Bank  report  concluded,  and  many  economists  as- 
sociated with  the  Philippines  concurred,  that  the  country's  high 
population  growth  rate  was  a  major  cause  of  the  widespread  poverty, 
particularly  in  the  rural  areas.  Implementation  of  a  government- 
sponsored  family-planning  program,  however,  was  thwarted  by  stiff 
opposition  from  the  hierarchy  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  (see 
Population  Control,  ch.  2).  Church  pronouncements  in  the  late 
1980s  and  early  1990s  focused  on  injustice,  graft  and  corruption, 
and  mismanagement  of  resources  as  the  fundamental  causes  of 
Philippine  underdevelopment.  These  issues  were  in  turn  linked  to 
the  concentration  of  control  of  economic  resources  and  the  struc- 
ture of  the  economy.  Land  ownership  was  highly  unequal,  but  land 
reform  initiatives  had  made  little  progress. 

In  urban  areas  also,  the  extent  of  poverty  was  related  to  the  con- 
centrated control  of  wealth.  Considerable  portions  of  both  indus- 
try and  finance  were  highly  monopolized.  Access  to  finance  was 
severely  limited  to  those  who  already  possessed  resources.  The  most 
profitable  investment  opportunities  were  often  in  areas  in  which 
tariff  or  other  forms  of  government  protection  ensured  high  profits 
but  did  not  necessarily  result  in  rapidly  expanding  employment 
opportunities.  In  her  election  campaign,  President  Aquino  pledged 
to  destroy  the  monopolies  and  structures  of  privilege  aggravated 
by  the  Marcos  regime.  She  looked  to  the  private  sector  to  revital- 
ize the  economy,  create  jobs  for  the  masses  of  Filipinos,  and  lead 
the  society  to  a  higher  standard  of  living.  The  state-protected  mo- 
nopolies were  dismantled,  but  not  the  monopoly  structure  of  the 
Philippine  economy  that  existed  long  before  Marcos  assumed  pow- 
er. In  their  privileged  positions,  the  business  elite  did  not  live  up 
to  the  President's  expectations.  As  a  consequence,  unemployment 
and,  more  importantly  for  the  issue  of  poverty,  underemployment 
remained  widespread. 

International  Economic  Relations 

International  Trade 

At  independence  in  1946,  the  Philippines  was  an  agricultural 
nation  tied  closely  to  its  erstwhile  colonizer,  the  United  States.  This 
fact  was  most  clearly  observed  in  trade  relations  between  the  two 
countries.  In  1950  the  value  of  the  Philippines'  ten  principal 
exports — all  but  one  being  agricultural  or  mineral  products  in  raw 


173 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

or  minimally  processed  form — added  up  to  85  percent  of  the  coun- 
try's exports.  For  the  first  twenty-five  years  of  independence,  the 
structure  of  export  trade  remained  relatively  constant. 

The  direction  of  trade,  however,  did  not  remain  constant.  In 
1949,  80  percent  of  total  Philippine  trade  was  with  the  United  States. 
Thereafter,  the  United  States  portion  declined  as  that  of  Japan  rose. 
In  1970  the  two  countries'  share  was  approximately  40  percent  each, 
the  United  States  slightly  more  and  Japan  slightly  less.  The  pat- 
tern of  import  trade  was  similar,  if  not  as  concentrated.  The  Unit- 
ed States  share  of  Philippine  imports  declined  more  rapidly  than 
Japan's  share  rose,  so  that  by  1970  the  two  countries  accounted 
for  about  60  percent  of  total  Philippine  imports.  After  1970  Philip- 
pine exporters  began  to  find  new  markets,  and  on  the  import  side 
the  dramatic  increases  in  petroleum  prices  shifted  shares  in  value 
terms,  if  not  in  volume.  In  1988  the  United  States  accounted  for 
27  percent  of  total  Philippine  trade,  Japan  for  19  percent. 

At  the  time  of  independence  and  as  a  requirement  for  receiving 
war  reconstruction  assistance  from  the  United  States,  the  Philip- 
pine government  agreed  to  a  number  of  items  that,  in  effect,  kept 
the  Philippines  closely  linked  to  the  United  States  economy  and 
protected  American  business  interests  in  the  Philippines.  Manila 
promised  not  to  change  its  (overvalued)  exchange  rate  from  the 
prewar  parity  of  P2  to  the  dollar,  or  to  impose  tariffs  on  imports 
from  the  United  States  without  the  consent  of  the  president  of  the 
United  States.  By  1949  the  situation  had  become  untenable.  Im- 
ports gready  surpassed  the  sum  of  exports  and  the  inflow  of  dollar 
aid,  and  a  regime  of  import  and  foreign-exchange  controls  was  in- 
itiated, which  remained  in  place  until  the  early  1960s. 

The  controls  initially  reduced  the  inflow  of  goods  dramatically. 
Between  1949  and  1950,  imports  fell  by  almost  40  percent  to 
US$342  million  and  surpassed  the  1949  level  in  only  one  year  during 
the  1950s.  Being  constrained,  imports  of  goods  and  nonfactor  ser- 
vices as  a  proportion  of  GNP  declined  during  the  1950s,  ending 
the  decade  at  10.6  percent,  about  the  same  percentage  as  that  of 
exports.  By  the  late  1950s,  however,  exchange  controls  had  begun 
to  lose  their  effectiveness  as  most  available  foreign  exchange  was 
committed  for  required  imports.  A  tariff  law  was  passed  in  1957, 
and,  from  1960  to  early  1962,  import  and  exchange  controls  were 
phased  out.  Exports  and  imports  increased  rapidly.  By  1965  the 
import  to  GNP  ratio  was  more  than  17  percent.  Another  accelera- 
tion of  imports  occurred  in  the  early  1970s,  this  time  raising  the 
import  to  GNP  ratio  to  around  25  percent,  the  level  at  which  it 
remained  into  the  1990s.  Imports  in  the  1970s  were  increasingly 
being  financed  by  external  debt  rather  than  by  exports. 


174 


The  Economy 


The  composition  of  imports  evolved  after  independence  as  in- 
dustrial development  occurred  and  commercial  policy  was  modi- 
fied. In  1949,  about  37  percent  of  imports  were  consumer  goods. 
This  proportion  declined  to  around  20  percent  during  the  exchange- 
and-import  control  period  of  the  1950s.  By  the  late  1960s,  con- 
sumer imports  had  been  largely  replaced  by  domestic  production. 
Imports  of  machinery  and  equipment  increased,  however,  as  the 
country  engaged  in  industrialization,  from  around  10  percent  in 
the  early  1950s  to  double  that  by  the  mid-1960s.  As  a  result  of  the 
surge  in  petroleum  prices  in  the  1970s,  the  import  share  of  both 
consumer  and  capital  goods  fell  somewhat,  but  their  relative  mag- 
nitudes remained  the  same. 

Regardless  of  the  trade  regime,  the  Philippines  had  difficulty  in 
generating  sufficient  exports  to  pay  for  its  imports.  In  the  forty 
years  from  1950  through  1990,  the  trade  balance  was  positive  in 
only  two  years:  1963  and  1973.  For  a  few  years  after  major  devalu- 
ations in  1962  and  1970,  the  current  account  was  in  surplus,  but 
then  it  too  turned  negative.  Excessive  imports  remained  a  problem 
in  the  late  1980s.  Between  1986  and  1989,  the  negative  trade  balance 
increased  tenfold  from  US$202  million  to  US$2.6  billion  (see  ta- 
ble 13,  Appendix). 

In  1990  weaker  world  prices  for  Philippine  exports,  higher 
production  costs,  and  a  slowdown  in  the  economies  of  the  Philip- 
pines' major  trading  partners  restrained  export  growth  to  only 
slightly  more  than  4  percent.  Increasing  petroleum  prices  and  heavy 
importation  of  capital  goods,  including  power- generating  equip- 
ment, helped  push  imports  up  almost  17  percent,  resulting  in  a 
50  percent  jump  in  the  trade  deficit  to  more  than  US$4  billion. 
Reducing  the  drain  on  foreign  exchange  has  became  a  major 
government  priority. 

A  number  of  factors  contributed  to  the  rather  dismal  trade  his- 
tory of  the  Philippines.  The  country's  terms  of  trade  (see  Glossary) 
have  fallen  for  most  of  the  period  since  1950,  so  that  in  the  late 
1980s,  a  given  quantity  of  exports  could  buy  only  55  percent  of 
the  volume  of  imports  that  it  could  buy  in  the  early  1950s.  A  sec- 
ond factor  was  the  persistent  overvaluation  of  the  exchange  rate. 
The  peso  was  devalued  a  number  of  times,  falling  from  a  pre- 
independence  value  of  P2  to  the  dollar  to  P28  in  May  1990.  The 
adjustments,  however,  had  not  stimulated  exports  or  curtailed  im- 
ports sufficiently  to  bring  the  two  in  line  with  one  another. 

A  third  consideration  was  the  country's  trade  and  industrial  poli- 
cies, including  tariff  protection  and  investment  incentives.  Many 
economists  have  argued  that  these  policies  favorably  affected  import- 
substitution  industries  to  the  detriment  of  export  industries.  In  the 


175 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

1970s,  the  implementation  of  an  export-incentives  program  and 
the  opening  of  an  export-processing  zone  at  Mariveles  on  the  Ba- 
taan  Peninsula  reduced  the  biases  somewhat.  The  export  of 
manufactures  (e.g.,  electronic  components,  garments,  handicrafts, 
chemicals,  furniture,  and  footwear)  increased  rapidly.  Additional 
export-processing  zones  were  constructed  in  Baguio  City  and  on 
Mactan  Island  near  Cebu  City.  During  the  1970s  and  early  1980s, 
nontraditional  exports  (i.e.,  commodities  not  among  the  ten  lar- 
gest traditional  exports)  grew  at  a  rate  twice  that  of  total  exports. 
Their  share  of  total  exports  increased  from  8.3  percent  in  1970  to 
61.7  percent  in  1985.  At  the  same  time  that  nontraditional  exports 
were  booming,  falling  raw  material  prices  adversely  affected  the 
value  of  traditional  exports. 

In  1988  the  value  of  nontraditional  exports  was  US$5.4  billion, 
75  percent  of  the  total.  The  most  important,  electrical  and  elec- 
tronic equipment  and  garments,  earned  US$1 .5  billion  and  US$1 .3 
billion,  respectively.  Both  of  these  product  groups,  however,  had 
high  import  content.  Domestic  value  added  was  no  more  than  20 
percent  of  the  export  value  of  electronic  components  and  probably 
no  more  than  twice  that  in  the  garment  industry.  Another  rapidly 
growing  export  item  was  seafood,  particularly  shrimps  and  prawns, 
which  earned  US$307  million  in  1988. 

The  World  Bank  and  the  IMF  as  well  as  many  Philippine 
economists  had  long  advocated  reduction  of  the  level  of  tariff  pro- 
tection and  elimination  of  import  controls.  Those  in  the  business 
community  who  were  engaged  in  import-substitution  manufactur- 
ing activities,  however,  opposed  reductions.  They  feared  that  they 
could  not  successfully  compete  if  tariff  barriers  were  lowered. 

In  the  early  1980s,  the  Philippine  government  reached  agree- 
ment with  the  World  Bank  to  reduce  tariffs  by  about  one-third  and 
to  lift  import  restrictions  on  some  3,000  items  over  a  five-  to  six- 
year  period.  The  bank,  in  turn,  provided  the  Philippines  with  a 
financial  sector  loan  of  US$150  million  and  a  structural  adjustment 
loan  for  US$200  million,  to  provide  balance-of-payments  relief  while 
the  tariff  wall  was  reduced.  Approximately  two-thirds  of  the  changes 
had  been  enacted  when  the  program  ground  to  a  halt  in  the  wake 
of  the  economic  and  political  crisis  that  followed  the  August  1983 
assassination  of  former  Senator  Benigno  Aquino. 

In  an  October  1986  accord  with  the  IMF,  the  Aquino  govern- 
ment agreed  to  liberalize  import  controls  and  to  eliminate  quan- 
titative barriers  on  1,232  products  by  the  end  of  1986.  The  target 
was  accomplished  for  all  but  303  products,  of  which  180  were  in- 
termediate and  capital  goods.  Agreement  was  reached  to  extend 
the  deadline  until  May  1988  on  those  products.  The  liberalizing 


176 


The  Economy 


impact  was  reduced  in  some  cases,  however,  by  tariffs  being  erected 
as  quantitative  controls  came  down. 

A  tariff  revision  scheme  was  put  forth  again  in  June  1990  by 
Secretary  of  Finance  Jesus  Estanislao.  After  an  intracabinet  struggle, 
Aquino  signed  Executive  Order  413  on  July  19,  1990,  implementing 
the  policy.  The  tariff  structure  was  to  be  simplified  by  reducing 
the  number  of  rates  to  four,  ranging  from  3  percent  to  30  percent. 
However,  in  August  1990,  business  groups  successfully  persuad- 
ed Aquino  to  delay  the  tariff  reform  package  for  six  months. 

Foreign  Investment 

Foreign  participation  in  the  Philippine  economy  was  a  controver- 
sial issue  throughout  much  of  the  twentieth  century.  The  1935  Com- 
monwealth Constitution  contained  several  provisions  limiting  the 
areas  of  economic  activity  in  which  non-Filipinos  could  participate. 
Operation  of  public  utilities,  exploitation  of  natural  resources,  and 
ownership  of  public  lands  were  limited  to  Filipinos  or  corporations 
controlled  by  Filipinos.  Control  of  banking  and  credit  was  limited 
to  Filipinos  with  the  passage  of  the  General  Banking  Act  in  1948, 
and  the  Retail  Nationalization  Act  of  1954  restricted  ownership 
in  retail  trade  to  Filipinos.  Except  in  specifically  designated  areas, 
foreigners  could  invest  only  through  joint  ventures  with  Filipino 
capitalists.  Legal  decisions  altered  the  interpretation  of  various  re- 
strictive measures,  as  did  Marcos  decrees  during  the  martial  law 
era,  but  the  basic  restrictions  remained  and  were  reaffirmed  in  the 
1987  constitution.  Constraints  on  foreigners  also  were  aimed  at 
non-Filipino  residents  in  the  Philippines.  The  1987  constitution, 
for  example,  includes  a  provision  similar  to  one  in  the  1935  con- 
stitution defining  as  natural-born  citizens  only  those  individuals 
whose  mother  or  father  was  a  citizen.  The  Securities  and  Exchange 
Commission  ruled  in  September  1990  that  firms  engaging  in  busi- 
ness in  areas  of  the  economy  that  had  been  at  least  partially  na- 
tionalized could  not  employ  non-Filipinos  in  management  positions. 
Liberalization  of  rules  limiting  areas  of  foreign  investment  was  being 
considered  in  the  Philippine  Congress  in  early  1991. 

Despite  legal  restrictions,  foreign  investment  has  played  a  promi- 
nent role  in  Philippine  economic  development.  In  1948  approxi- 
mately 50  percent  of  the  assets  in  manufacturing,  commerce,  and 
mining  were  foreign  owned,  as  were  80  percent  of  electricity  as- 
sets. By  1970,  however,  foreign  ownership  in  manufacturing,  com- 
merce, and  mining  had  declined  to  around  40  percent,  and  very 
little  foreign  investment  remained  in  utilities.  Incomplete  data  for 
the  early  1980s  indicated  that  foreigners  controlled  about  30  per- 
cent of  the  assets  of  the  1 ,000  largest  corporations  operating  in  the 


177 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Philippines  at  that  time.  Central  Bank  statistics,  reporting  inflows 
without  taking  divestments  into  account,  showed  foreign  invest- 
ment inflows  between  1970  and  1988  totaling  US$2.9  billion.  Half 
went  to  manufacturing,  of  which  chemicals  and  food  were  the  most 
important  industries;  24  percent  was  invested  in  petroleum  refin- 
ing; and  12  percent  was  in  banking  and  other  financial  institutions 
(see  table  14,  Appendix). 

United  States  corporations  have  been  the  largest  foreign  inves- 
tors in  the  Philippines.  Because  of  the  colonial  relationship  between 
the  United  States  and  the  Philippines,  as  well  as  a  postindepen- 
dence  agreement  protecting  United  States  business  interests,  United 
States  citizens  were  not  bound  by  Philippine  citizenship  restric- 
tions with  respect  to  foreign  investment  until  1974.  A  government 
survey  showed  that  80  percent  of  foreign  investment  in  900  of  the 
1,000  largest  firms  in  1970  was  American.  In  the  late  1980s,  the 
United  States  remained  the  largest  foreign  investor,  but  its  dominant 
position  had  been  eroded.  According  to  Central  Bank  statistics, 
United  States  investment  between  1970  and  1988  totaled  US$1.6 
billion,  more  than  one-half  the  total  of  foreign-owned  equity  in  the 
country  (see  table  15,  Appendix).  Japan  was  second  with  US$396 
million,  almost  14  percent.  The  Central  Bank  reports  for  1989 
showed  registration  of  US$310  million  in  foreign  investment.  The 
United  States  had  the  largest  investment  with  US$68.8  million, 
followed  by  Japan  with  US$51 .9  million.  Also  important  were  Hong 
Kong  with  US$16.9  million,  the  Netherlands  with  US$15.8  mil- 
lion, and  Taiwan  with  US$14.7  million. 

Although  foreign  investors  were  forbidden  by  the  Philippine  con- 
stitution to  either  own  or  lease  public  agricultural  lands,  there  were 
124  transnational  agribusiness  firms  operating  in  the  Philippines 
in  1985,  of  which  58  were  directly  engaged  in  the  cultivation  of 
cash  crops  on  the  southern  island  of  Mindanao.  As  early  as  the 
1920s,  Del  Monte  Corporation  had  established  a  pineapple  planta- 
tion in  Bukidnon  in  northern  Mindanao.  B.F.  Goodrich  and  Good- 
year Tire  Corporation  came  in  the  1950s,  and  Castle  and  Cooke 
entered  in  the  1960s,  setting  up  a  pineapple  plantation  in  South 
Cotabato  Province.  The  Philippine  government  facilitated  invest- 
ment of  foreign  enterprises  in  plantations  through  the  government- 
owned  National  Development  Corporation,  which  acquired  land 
and  leased  it  to  the  investors.  Foreign-owned  firms  also  were  able 
to  get  around  leasing  prohibitions  by  entering  into  growers'  agree- 
ments with  landowners  and  subsequently  changing  the  agreement 
to  allow  direct  cultivation  of  the  land.  Such  arrangements  have 
generated  considerable  controversy. 


178 


The  Economy 


In  the  late  1980s,  pineapples  were  cultivated  directly  by  Del 
Monte  and  the  Castle  and  Cooke  subsidiary,  Dole  Philippines. 
Together  their  plantations  comprised  21 ,400  hectares  in  1987.  These 
two  transnational  corporations,  along  with  a  third,  United  Brands, 
also  produced  bananas,  almost  exclusively  for  sale  in  Japan.  Produc- 
tion arrangements  in  the  banana  industry  were  more  complicated 
than  those  in  the  pineapple  industry,  involving  contract  production- 
marketing  arrangements  with  domestic  agribusinesses  and  small 
growers,  as  well  as  direct  cultivation.  The  three  transnational  cor- 
porations each  controlled  directly  or  through  contract  arrangements 
about  5,000  hectares  of  land  planted  in  bananas  in  the  late  1980s. 
In  1988  exports  of  bananas  totaled  US$146  million,  and  those  of 
canned  pineapples  US$83  million. 

External  Debt 

On  October  17,  1983,  the  government  announced  that  the  Philip- 
pines was  unable  to  meet  debt-service  obligations  on  its  foreign- 
currency  debt  of  US$24.4  billion  and  was  asking  for  a  ninety-day 
moratorium  on  its  payments.  Subsequent  requests  were  made  for 
moratorium  extensions.  The  action  was  the  climax  of  an  increas- 
ingly difficult  balance  of  payments  situation.  Philippine  develop- 
ment during  the  decade  of  the  1970s  had  been  facilitated  by 
extensive  borrowing  on  the  international  capital  market.  Between 
1973  and  1982,  the  country's  indebtedness  increased  an  average 
of  27  percent  per  year.  Although  government- to- government  loans 
and  loans  from  multilateral  institutions  such  as  the  World  Bank 
and  Asian  Development  Bank  were  granted  at  lower-than-market 
rates  of  interest,  the  debt-service  charges  on  those  and  commer- 
cial loans  continued  to  mount.  In  1982  payments  were  US$3.5  bil- 
lion, approximately  the  level  of  foreign  borrowing  that  year  and 
greater  than  the  country's  total  debt  in  1970.  The  next  year,  1983, 
interest  payments  exceeded  the  net  inflow  of  capital  by  about 
US$1 .85  billion.  The  debt  burden  became  unsustainable  when  com- 
bined with  the  downturn  in  the  world  economy;  increasing  interest 
rates;  a  domestic  financial  scandal  that  occurred  when  a  business- 
man fled  the  country  with  debts  estimated  at  P700  million,  escalat- 
ing unrest  at  the  excesses  of  the  Marcos  regime;  and  the  political 
crisis  that  followed  the  Aquino  assassination  (see  table  16,  Ap- 
pendix). 

The  Philippines  had  turned  to  the  IMF  previously  in  1962  and 
1970  when  it  had  run  into  balance  of  payments  difficulties.  It  did 
so  again  in  late  1982.  An  agreement  was  reached  in  February  1983 
for  an  emergency  loan,  followed  by  other  loans  from  the  World 
Bank  and  transnational  commercial  banks.  Negotiations  began 


179 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

again  almost  immediately  after  the  moratorium  declaration  between 
Philippine  monetary  officials  and  the  IMF.  The  situation  became 
complicated  when  it  came  to  light  that  the  Philippines  had  under- 
stated its  debt  by  some  US$7  billion  to  US$8  billion,  overstated 
its  foreign-exchange  reserves  by  approximately  US$1  billion,  and 
contravened  its  February  1983  agreement  with  the  IMF  by  allow- 
ing a  rapid  increase  in  the  money  supply.  A  new  standby  arrange- 
ment was  finally  reached  with  the  IMF  in  December  1984,  more 
than  a  year  after  the  declaration  of  the  moratorium.  In  the  mean- 
time, additional  external  funds  became  nearly  impossible  to  obtain. 

In  each  of  these  arrangements  with  the  IMF,  the  Philippines 
agreed  to  certain  conditions  to  obtain  additional  funding,  gener- 
ally including  devaluation  of  the  peso,  liberalization  of  import  re- 
straints, and  tightening  of  domestic  credit  (limiting  the  growth  of 
the  money  supply  and  raising  interest  rates).  The  adjustment  mea- 
sures demanded  by  the  IMF  in  the  December  1984  agreement  were 
harsh,  and  the  economy  reacted  severely.  Because  of  its  financial 
straits,  however,  the  government  saw  no  option  but  to  comply. 
Balance  of  payments  targets  were  met  for  the  following  year,  and 
the  current  account  turned  positive  in  FY  (fiscal  year — see  Glos- 
sary) 1986,  the  first  time  in  more  than  a  decade.  But  there  was 
a  cost:  interest  rates  rose  to  as  high  as  40  percent,  and  real  GNP 
declined  1 1  percent  over  1984  and  1985.  The  dire  economic  situa- 
tion contributed  to  Aquino's  victory  in  the  February  1986  presiden- 
tial election. 

When  Marcos  fled  to  the  United  States  later  that  month,  the 
Philippine  external  debt  had  grown  to  over  US$27  billion.  The 
country's  most  immediate  concern  was  meeting  debt-service  pay- 
ments. Reduction  in  the  size  of  the  debt  was  a  longer  term  issue. 
Debt  servicing,  US$3  billion  in  1986,  was  a  drain  on  both  the  coun- 
try's foreign-exchange  earnings  and  its  investible  surplus.  Tech- 
nocrats in  the  National  Economic  and  Development  Authority 
recommended  declaring  another  moratorium,  this  time  for  two 
years,  to  allow  the  country  a  breathing  space.  Measures  were  in- 
troduced in  Congress  in  1986  and  subsequent  years  to  cap  annual 
debt-service  payments.  The  Aquino  administration  and  the  Cen- 
tral Bank,  however,  consistently  resisted  both  tactics,  opting  in- 
stead for  a  cooperative  approach  with  the  country's  creditors. 

Some  of  the  government  and  government-guaranteed  debt  was 
incurred  under  questionable  circumstances,  and  there  were  per- 
sistent demands  for  repudiation  of  those  loans  that  could  be  shown 
to  be  fraudulent.  In  November  1990,  the  Freedom  from  Debt  Coa- 
lition, a  nongovernmental  organization,  presented  findings  from 
its  investigation  on  six  potentially  fraudulent  loans,  together  worth 


180 


The  Economy 


between  US$4  billion  and  US$6  billion.  The  largest,  a  US$2.5  bil- 
lion loan  for  the  construction  of  the  Bataan  Nuclear  Power  Plant, 
involved  allegations  of  irregularities  in  bidding  procedures  and  de- 
sign, overpricing,  and  kickbacks.  The  Aquino  government  previ- 
ously had  filed  a  civil  suit  in  the  United  States  against  Westinghouse 
Corporation,  the  corporation  with  which  the  Marcos  government 
had  contracted  to  build  the  nuclear  power  plant.  The  Philippines 
continued  to  pay  interest  payments  of  US$300,000  per  day  on  the 
nuclear  plant  loans  while  the  case  was  under  litigation.  In  response 
to  the  coalition's  findings,  however,  the  president  said  that  the  coun- 
try would  not  pay  fraudulent  loans,  a  statement  interpreted  as  a 
major  policy  change. 

Government  negotiators  dealt  mainly  with  three  groups  of  cre- 
ditors in  their  efforts  to  reduce  the  burden  of  debt  servicing.  The 
first,  and  in  some  ways  the  most  important,  was  the  IMF,  because 
its  imprimatur  was  considered  necessary  to  conclude  arrangements 
with  other  creditors.  The  second  was  the  Paris  Club,  an  informal 
organization  of  official  creditors.  The  third  group  was  the  com- 
mercial bank  creditors,  numbering  330  as  of  1990.  Bank  negotia- 
tions generally  were  with  the  twelve-member  bank  advisory 
committee,  chaired  by  Manufacturers  Hanover  Trust. 

The  standby  agreement  that  the  Marcos  government  had 
negotiated  with  the  IMF  in  1985  was  discontinued  shortly  after 
Aquino  assumed  office.  The  agreed-upon  targets  with  respect  to 
government  spending  and  increases  in  the  money  supply  had  been 
wildly  exceeded  as  Marcos  dipped  into  government  coffers  in  a 
desperate  effort  to  win  the  1986  election.  In  addition,  the  govern- 
ment wished  to  negotiate  a  more  growth-oriented  arrangement. 
An  agreement  on  repayment  terms  for  US$506  million  of  loans 
was  concluded  eight  months  later  in  October  1986.  In  January  1987, 
an  agreement  was  reached  with  the  Paris  Club  to  stretch  out  over 
ten  years,  with  a  five-year  grace  period,  US$870  million  of  loans 
that  were  to  have  been  paid  in  1987  and  the  first  half  of  1988.  The 
IMF  accord  also  triggered  the  release  of  US$350  million  in  new 
loans  by  commercial  bank  creditors  that  had  been  held  up  when 
the  agreement  with  the  IMF  broke  down  in  early  1986.  In  March 
1987,  the  Philippines  and  the  twelve-bank  advisory  committee  came 
to  terms  on  the  rescheduling  of  the  country's  US$13.2  million  debt 
to  private  banks  and  a  reduction  in  the  rate  of  interest.  Signing 
of  the  agreement  was  delayed,  however,  by  a  group  of  creditor  banks 
led  by  Barclays  Bank  of  Britain,  who  demanded  that  the  Philip- 
pine government  guarantee  the  US$57  million  debt  of  a  private 
fertilizer  firm,  Planters  Products,  Inc.  An  accommodation  was  not 
reached  until  December  1987. 


181 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

A  second  round  of  negotiations  began  in  1989.  The  Paris  Club 
restructured  US$2.2  million  of  debt  coming  due  between  Septem- 
ber 1988  and  June  1990.  The  IMF  and  commercial  bank  agree- 
ments allowed  the  Philippines  to  undertake,  in  early  1990,  a 
three-pronged  program  under  Brady  Plan  (see  Glossary)  guide- 
lines. First,  the  government  used  funds  from  the  World  Bank,  IMF, 
and  other  sources  to  repurchase  US$1.31  billion  of  government 
debt  from  private  banks  at  the  50  percent  discount  at  which  they 
were  selling  on  the  secondary  market.  This  action  reduced  the  coun- 
try's debt  by  some  US$650,000,  and,  in  the  process,  the  number 
of  creditor  banks  fell  from  483  to  330.  Second,  debt  coming  due 
between  1990  and  1994  was  rescheduled.  Last,  some  eighty  banks 
subscribed  to  US$700  million  in  new  loans. 

In  July  1990,  it  was  reported  that  the  IMF  had  reviewed  Philip- 
pine economic  performance  and  found  it  "favorable"  for  the  period 
between  October  1989,  when  the  loan  agreement  was  reached,  and 
March  1990.  By  September,  however,  the  situation  had  turned 
around.  Agreed-upon  targets  had  not  been  met  with  respect  to  the 
sizes  of  the  government  budgetary  deficit,  the  trade  balance,  or 
the  country's  international  reserves.  As  a  consequence,  the  IMF 
refused  to  release  the  September  tranche  (installment  of  funds)  to 
the  Philippines.  In  turn,  Manila  canceled  the  1989  standby  agree- 
ment and  reopened  negotiations  with  the  IMF.  A  new  agreement 
was  announced  in  early  1991 .  It  involved  a  three-year  credit  pack- 
age, totaling  US$375  million,  only  one-third  of  the  US$1.17  bil- 
lion loan  package  suspended  the  previous  September.  Among  other 
things,  the  agreement  required  the  Philippines  to  implement  new 
revenue-raising  measures  by  the  end  of  August  1991. 

As  a  consequence  of  the  country's  failure  to  meet  the  Septem- 
ber standby  agreement  targets,  the  commercial  banks  in  Febru- 
ary 1991  refused  to  disburse  the  last  US$1 15  million  of  the  US$706 
million  credit  line  agreed  to  in  early  1990.  At  a  meeting  with  Filipino 
officials,  the  bank  advisory  committee  also  declined  to  discuss 
providing  some  US$500  million  in  new  funds.  In  February  1991, 
the  Philippine  government  also  said  that  it  would  ask  the  Paris  Club 
for  deferment  of  payment  on  US$1  billion  in  debts  falling  due  from 
June  30,  1991  to  July  31,  1992.  In  a  measure  to  reduce  the  risk 
of  lending  to  the  government  by  commercial  banks,  in  February 
1991  the  Philippines  indicated  that  it  would  approach  multilateral 
financial  institutions  such  as  the  World  Bank  and  the  Asian  De- 
velopment Bank  for  cofinancing,  in  return  for  which  the  Philip- 
pine government  would  give  up  the  possibility  of  rescheduling. 

Efforts  to  reduce  the  external  debt  included  encouraging  direct 
investment  in  the  economy.  In  August  1986,  the  Philippines 


182 


The  Economy 


initiated  a  debt-equity  conversion  program,  which  allowed  poten- 
tial investors  who  could  acquire  Philippine  debt  instruments  to  con- 
vert them  into  Philippine  pesos  for  the  purpose  of  investing  in  the 
Philippine  economy.  Because  the  value  of  the  debt  in  the  secon- 
dary market  was  substantially  less  than  its  face  value  (about  half, 
at  the  time),  the  swap  arrangement  allowed  investors  to  acquire 
pesos  at  a  discount  rate. 

Most  of  the  swapped  debt  was  held  by  the  Central  Bank,  which 
could  provide  the  peso  proceeds  to  retire  the  debt  only  through  is- 
suing new  money,  with  obvious  inflationary  consequences.  For  this 
reason,  the  program  was  suspended  in  April  1988.  At  that  time, 
US$917  million  in  debt  reduction  had  taken  place.  Other  issues 
were  raised,  however,  about  both  the  benefits  to  the  Philippines 
and  the  fairness  of  the  conversion  program.  Debt-equity  swaps, 
it  was  argued,  amounted  to  a  considerable  gain  to  investors,  cost- 
ing much  less  in  dollars  than  was  received  in  pesos.  If  an  invest- 
ment had  taken  place  without  the  swap,  a  very  large  subsidy  would 
not  have  been  involved.  Second,  a  considerable  portion  of  the  con- 
versions appeared  to  have  been  by  Filipinos  bringing  their  wealth 
back  into  the  country.  Critics  questioned  whether  those  who  en- 
gaged in  capital  flight  should  be  awarded  a  premium  for  return- 
ing their  wealth  to  the  Philippines.  There  also  was  the  question 
of  the  arbitrage  possibilities  of  "round  tripping,"  whereby  inves- 
tors with  pesos  engaged  in  capital  flight  to  obtain  foreign  curren- 
cy, which  was  used  through  the  swap  to  achieve  a  much  larger 
amount  of  pesos.  Alternatively,  an  individual  with  dollars  could 
engage  in  a  swap  and  then  convert  pesos  back  into  dollars  through 
the  exchange  market.  Although  the  government  had  some  regula- 
tions concerning  length  of  investment,  the  process  was  ripe  for 
abuse.  Nevertheless,  the  government  resumed  the  program  in  De- 
cember 1990  with  an  auction  of  US$7  million  in  debt  paper.  The 
new  program  was  reported  to  have  been  altered  to  reduce  infla- 
tionary pressures. 

In  March  1991,  Philippine  officials  raised  the  issue  of  "condo- 
nation," or  debt  forgiveness,  of  Philippine  debt  with  United  States 
officials,  requesting  that  the  United  States  accord  the  Philippines 
similar  treatment  to  that  accorded  Egypt  and  Poland.  The  United 
States  resisted  the  entreaty,  pointing  out  that  whereas  US$33  bil- 
lion of  Poland's  US$48  billion  debt  was  official,  all  but  20  percent 
of  the  Philippine  debt  was  owed  to  commercial  banks. 

The  Aquino  administration  spent  an  enormous  amount  of  time 
and  effort  negotiating  with  various  creditor  groups  to  lower  interest 
rates,  reschedule  the  country's  debt,  and  reduce  the  magnitude  of 
the  debt.  A  number  of  innovative  schemes  were  undertaken;  more 


183 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

were  discussed.  It  was  a  process,  however,  that  essentially  meant 
running  fast  to  stay  in  place.  The  size  of  the  country's  external 
debt  in  June  1990,  US$26.97  billion,  was  about  the  same  as  the 
US$26.92  billion  the  country  owed  at  the  end  of  1985,  shortly  be- 
fore Aquino  took  office.  Debt-service  payments  also  changed  very 
little:  US$2.57  billion  in  1985  as  opposed  to  US$2.35  billion  in 
1990.  The  balance  of  payments  pressures  remained.  The  growth 
of  the  Philippine  economy,  however,  caused  the  ratio  of  the  coun- 
try's debt  to  GNP  to  decline  from  83.5  in  1985  to  65.2  in  1989, 
whereas  that  of  debt  service  to  exports  fell  from  32.0  to  26.3  over 
the  same  period.  Projected  debt  servicing  in  September  1990  for 
the  1990s  showed  a  rise  from  US$2.35  billion  in  1990  to  US$3.25 
billion  in  1995,  falling  off  to  US$2.08  billion  in  1999. 

Development  Assistance 

Official  development  assistance  (ODA)  includes  grants  and  loans 
at  concessional  rates  from  official  donors,  both  bilateral  (individu- 
al country)  and  multilateral  (e.g.,  the  World  Bank  and  the  Asian 
Development  Bank).  In  the  early  independence  period,  90  percent 
of  aid  was  bilateral  grant  aid,  almost  entirely  from  the  United  States. 
By  the  1960s,  however,  there  was  growing  assistance  from  multi- 
lateral organizations  and  Japan,  85  to  90  percent  of  which  was  in 
the  form  of  loans  (see  table  17,  Appendix).  During  the  1970s  and 
1980s,  concessionary  loans  became  the  dominant  mode  of  assistance 
from  all  sources,  averaging  in  excess  of  80  percent  of  the  total  (see 
table  18,  Appendix). 

Following  Aquino's  accession  to  the  presidency  in  1986,  ODA 
increased,  primarily  from  the  United  States,  Japan,  the  World 
Bank,  and  the  Asian  Development  Bank.  In  the  first  three  years 
of  the  Aquino  government,  1986  to  1988,  concessionary  loan  com- 
mitments increased  60  percent  above  the  last  three  years  of  the  Mar- 
cos regime,  1983-85,  from  an  average  of  US$764  million  to 
US$1,233  million  per  year.  Grant-aid  commitments  increased  even 
more,  jumping  150  percent  from  an  average  of  US$195  million 
to  an  average  of  US$486  million. 

In  November  1987,  a  bipartisan  group  of  four  members  of  the 
United  States  Congress  proposed  a  major  multinational  aid 
initiative — a  "mini  Marshall  Plan" — to  help  the  Philippines  ad- 
dress the  manifold  economic  problems  that  were  the  legacy  of  the 
Marcos  regime,  support  economic  reform  in  that  country,  and  help 
ensure  the  return  of  the  Philippines  to  democracy.  The  initial 
proposal  suggested  US$5  billion  in  additional  aid  over  a  five-year 
period,  along  with  a  substantial  increase  in  private  foreign  invest- 
ment. By  the  time  the  program  was  announced,  the  goal  of  the 


184 


The  Economy 


Multilateral  Aid  Initiative  had  risen  to  US$10  billion,  mainly,  but 
not  always,  divided  equally  between  ODA  and  private  investment. 

At  the  request  of  Japan,  the  Multilateral  Aid  Initiative — also 
referred  to  as  the  Philippine  Assistance  Plan — was  set  up  under 
the  Consultative  Group,  a  group  of  international  agencies  and  coun- 
tries established  in  1971  at  the  request  of  the  Marcos  government 
to  coordinate  assistance  programs  to  the  Philippines  and  chaired 
by  the  World  Bank.  The  Multilateral  Aid  Initiative  was  clearly 
meant  to  precipitate  a  substantially  larger  flow  of  aid  than  had  been 
committed  to  the  Philippines  in  the  two  years  since  Marcos  had 
fled  the  country. 

The  first  Multilateral  Aid  Initiative  pledging  session,  held  in 
Tokyo,  July  3-5,  1989,  resulted  in  aid  commitments  of  US$2.8 
billion,  plus  US$600  million  in  debt  relief  by  the  Japanese.  In  the 
Philippines,  the  extent  of  "additional"  aid  was  cast  as  a  measure 
of  international  support  for  the  Aquino  regime.  The  country  had 
received  official  development  assistance  commitments  of  about 
US$2.4  billion  in  1988.  Given  that  figure  and  estimates  of  the  size 
of  aid  projects  that  were  then  under  discussion  between  the  Philip- 
pines and  potential  donors,  estimates  of  new  funds  generated  at 
the  Tokyo  pledge  session  ranged  from  US$250  million  to  US$1.5 
billion  to  the  full  US$3.4  billion.  The  government,  accordingly, 
received  criticisms  or  plaudits  as  one  judged  the  extent  of  success 
in  generating  new  funds. 

In  1990  there  was  no  pledging  session,  reportedly  because  of  the 
suspension  of  the  IMF  agreement  in  March  1990.  A  second  ses- 
sion was  held  in  Hong  Kong  on  February  25  and  26,  1991,  with 
a  total  of  US$3.3  billion  pledged.  The  Philippine  government 
reported  that  by  the  end  of  1990,  the  full  amount  pledged  at  the 
Tokyo  session  had  been  committed;  however,  actual  disbursements 
were  only  US$839  million.  Donor  government  representatives  at 
the  Hong  Kong  session  expressed  support  publicly  for  the  enact- 
ment of  economic  policies  that  Aquino  advisers  had  worked  out 
with  the  IMF,  as  well  as  concern  over  the  resistance  of  the  Philip- 
pine Congress  to  their  implementation.  The  size  of  pledges  and 
the  willingness  to  comment  on  internal  Philippine  policy  issues  in- 
dicated that  the  donor  nations  hoped  that  the  Philippines  would 
be  able  to  undertake  a  viable  economic  program  but  were  concerned 
that  it  would  be  unable  to  do  so. 

Political  Economy  of  United  States  Military  Bases 

In  early  1991,  the  Philippine  government  was  in  ongoing  ne- 
gotiations with  the  United  States  on  the  future  status  of  United 
States  naval  and  air  facilities  at  Subic  Bay  and  Clark  Air  Base  (see 


185 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Relations  With  the  United  States,  ch.  4;  Foreign  Military  Rela- 
tions, ch.  5).  What  would  normally  be  an  issue  of  foreign  policy 
and  national  security  became  a  major  domestic  political  issue  and 
took  on  an  economic  dimension  of  considerable  importance.  At 
the  domestic  level,  the  conflict  was  between  those  who  argued  that 
the  continuing  presence  of  the  United  States  bases  was  an  infringe- 
ment on  Philippine  sovereignty  and  a  continuation  of  a  neocolonial 
relationship  and  those  who,  for  a  combination  of  internal  securi- 
ty, foreign  relations,  and  economic  reasons,  saw  the  need  for  main- 
taining the  presence  of  the  bases.  President  Aquino,  through  1990, 
refused  to  publicly  commit  herself  to  a  position;  however,  it  was 
clear  that  her  government  was  working  to  reach  accommodation 
with  the  United  States.  As  negotiations  progressed,  the  economic 
issue  became  prominent. 

There  were  three  economic  considerations  from  the  point  of  view 
of  the  Philippine  government.  First,  the  proportion  of  the  Philip- 
pine budget  allocated  for  its  armed  forces  was  the  smallest  in  the 
region,  a  fact  linked  to  the  presence  of  United  States  air  and  naval 
forces  in  the  Philippines,  as  well  as  direct  military  assistance.  Sec- 
ond, in  the  latter  half  of  the  1980s,  the  bases  directly  employed 
between  42,000  and  68,000  Filipinos  and  contracted  for  goods  and 
services  from  Filipino  businesses.  During  this  period,  yearly  base 
purchases  of  goods  and  services  in  the  Philippine  economy  (when 
corrected  for  the  estimated  import  content  of  the  goods  purchased) 
was  in  the  range  of  P6.0  billion  to  P8.3  billion. 

A  third  and  politically  very  important  consideration  was  the  sum 
given  to  the  Philippines  by  the  United  States  in  connection  with 
the  presence  of  the  bases,  referred  to  as  aid  by  United  States  offi- 
cials and  as  rent  by  the  Filipinos.  Base-related  payments  were  first 
agreed  to  in  1979  when  United  States  president  Jimmy  Carter  made 
a  "best  effort"  pledge  to  secure  US$500  million  for  the  Philippines 
from  the  United  States  Congress  over  a  five-year  period.  In  1983 
another  five-year  commitment  was  made,  this  time  for  US$900  mil- 
lion. In  October  1988,  the  Philippines'  Secretary  of  Foreign  Af- 
fairs Raul  Manglapus  and  United  States'  Secretary  of  State  George 
Schultz  signed  a  two-year  agreement  for  US$962  million,  an 
amount  double  the  previous  compensation  but  substantially  less 
than  the  US$2.4  billion  that  the  Philippines  initially  demanded. 
In  1991  talks  over  the  future  of  the  bases  and  the  size  and  terms 
of  the  aid  or  rent  that  would  be  given  in  consideration  for  con- 
tinued United  States  access  to  military  facilities  in  the  Philippines 
was  the  most  important  unresolved  issue.  The  decision  of  the  Philip- 
pine administration  to  bring  Secretary  of  Finance  Jesus  Estanislao 


186 


The  Economy 


into  the  negotiations  in  March  1991  was  a  further  indication  of 
the  economic  importance  of  the  bases  to  the  Philippine  government. 

*     *  * 

Vicente  B.  Valdepenas,  Jr.  and  Gemelino  M.  Bautista's  The 
Emergence  of  the  Philippine  Economy  is  a  concise  history  of  the  Philip- 
pine economy  from  the  pre-Hispanic  period  until  the  1960s,  and 
Frank  H.  Golay's  The  Philippines  is  an  excellent  overview  of  the 
1945-59  period.  Romeo  M.  Bautista,  John  H.  Power,  and  others 
offer  a  major  critique  of  Philippine  industrialization  policy  and  an 
argument  for  liberalizing  the  economy  in  Industrial  Promotion  Poli- 
cies in  the  Philippines.  The  argument  in  favor  of  continued  protec- 
tionism is  put  forth  in  Alejandro  Lichauco's  Nationalist  Economics, 
and  Alichir  Ishii's  National  Development  Policies  and  the  Business  Sector 
in  the  Philippines  explores  several  aspects  of  the  interaction  between 
the  business  sector  and  the  government.  Yujiro  Hay  ami,  Ma.  Agnes 
R.  Quisumbing,  and  Lourdes  S.  Adriano's  Toward  an  Alternative 
Land  Reform  Paradigm  reviews  the  history  of  land  reform  and  cur- 
rent reform  efforts,  and  suggests  an  alternative  policy.  The 
monopolization  and  control  of  export  agriculture  industries  dur- 
ing the  martial  law  period  are  examined  by  Gary  Hawes  in  The 
Philippine  State  and  the  Marcos  Regime.  Elias  T.  Ramos's  Dualistic  Un- 
ionism and  Industrial  Relations  has  the  only  extensive  discussion  of 
the  development  of  unions  in  the  Philippines. 

An  Analysis  of  the  Philippine  Economic  Crisis,  a  collective  work  of 
University  of  the  Philippines  economists  edited  by  Emmanuel  S. 
De  Dios,  provides  insight  into  the  1983  economic  crisis.  Walden 
Bello,  David  Kinley,  and  Elaine  Elinson's  Development  Debacle  and 
Robin  Broad's  Unequal  Alliance  criticize  World  Bank  activities  in 
the  Philippines.  The  Philippine  Institute  for  Development  Studies 
has  produced  a  number  of  studies  of  specific  aspects  of  the  econo- 
my. Its  Survey  of  Philippine  Development  Research  series  contains  arti- 
cles that  survey  research  on  specific  areas  of  the  economy. 
Specialized  studies  include  Rosa  Linda  P.  Tidalgo  and  Emmanuel 
F.  Esguerra's  Philippine  Employment  in  the  Seventies,  and  James  K. 
Boyce's  The  Political  Economy  of  External  Indebtedness,  which  examines 
the  extent  of  capital  flight  from  the  Philippines. 

A  Guide  to  Philippine  Economic  and  Business  Information  Sources,  edited 
by  David  G.  Timberman,  provides  a  good  bibliography  of  news- 
letters, government  documents,  and  other  material  of  interest  to 
Philippines  businesses.  (For  further  information  and  complete  ci- 
tations, see  Bibliography.) 


187 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


Malacanang  Palace  in  Manila,  the  official  residence  of  the  president 


AS  PRESIDENT  CORAZON  C.  AQUINO  entered  the  final  year 
of  her  six-year  term  in  1991,  she  presided  over  a  demoralized  na- 
tion reeling  from  the  effects  of  natural  calamities  and  economic 
malaise.  The  country  had  slid  into  dictatorship  and  gross  economic 
mismanagement  during  Ferdinand  E.  Marcos 's  twenty-year  presi- 
dency. When  Aquino  was  elevated  to  the  presidency  in  an  inspiring 
People's  Power  Revolution  in  1986,  Filipinos'  hopes  rose.  Inevita- 
bly, the  stark  realities  of  the  nation's  economic  and  political  predica- 
ments tarnished  Aquino's  image. 

Aquino's  achievements,  however,  were  significant.  She  helped 
topple  a  dictator  who  had  unlimited  reserves  of  wealth,  force,  and 
cunning.  She  replaced  a  disjointed  constitution  that  was  little  more 
than  a  fig  leaf  for  Marcos' s  personalistic  rule  with  a  democratic, 
progressive  document  that  won  overwhelming  popular  approval 
in  a  nationwide  plebiscite.  She  renounced  the  dictatorial  powers 
she  inherited  from  Marcos  and  returned  the  Philippines  to  the  rule 
of  law;  she  lived  with  the  checks  on  her  own  power  inherent  in 
three-branch  government;  and  she  scheduled  national  elections  to 
create  a  two-chamber  legislature  and  local  elections  to  complete 
the  country's  redemocratization. 

The  1987  constitution  returned  the  Philippines  to  a  presidential 
system.  The  national  government  is  in  theory  highly  centralized, 
with  few  powers  devolving  to  provincial  and  municipal  govern- 
ments. In  fact,  local  potentates  often  reserve  powers  to  themselves 
that  the  national  government  is  not  even  aware  of.  The  national 
government  consists  of  three  branches:  the  executive,  headed  by 
the  president;  two  houses  of  Congress,  the  Senate  and  the  House 
of  Representatives;  and  the  Supreme  Court,  which  heads  an  in- 
dependent judiciary.  A  bill  of  rights  guarantees  political  freedoms, 
and  the  constitution  provides  for  regular  elections. 

The  performance  of  these  institutions  was,  of  course,  conditioned 
by  Philippine  history  and  culture,  and  by  poverty.  For  example, 
the  twenty-four  members  of  the  Senate,  elected  by  nationwide  ballot, 
in  the  1980s  were  drawn  almost  entirely  from  old,  prominent  fami- 
lies. Senators  staked  out  liberal,  nationalist  positions  on  symbolic 
issues,  such  as  military  base  rights  for  the  United  States,  but  were 
exceedingly  cautious  about  any  structural  changes,  such  as  land  re- 
form, that  could  jeopardize  the  economic  positions  of  their  families. 

Political  parties  grew  in  profusion  after  the  Marcos  martial-law 
regime  (1972-81)  was  ended.  There  were  105  political  parties 


191 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

registered  in  1988.  As  in  the  pre-Marcos  era,  most  legal  political 
parties  were  coalitions,  built  around  prominent  individuals,  that 
focused  entirely  on  winning  elections,  not  on  what  to  do  with  the 
power  achieved.  There  was  littie  to  distinguish  one  party  from 
another  ideologically,  which  was  why  many  Filipinos  regarded  the 
political  system  as  irrelevant. 

President  Aquino's  early  years  in  office  were  punctuated  by  a 
series  of  coup  attempts.  Her  greatest  frustration,  and  a  most  seri- 
ous impediment  to  economic  development,  was  a  fractious,  politi- 
cized army.  Some  officers  wanted  to  regain  the  privileges  they 
enjoyed  under  Marcos;  others  dreamed  of  saving  the  nation  (see 
Proclamation  1081  and  Martial  Law,  ch.  1;  Political  Role,  ch.  5). 
Although  all  coup  attempts  failed,  they  frightened  away  foreign 
investors,  forced  Aquino  to  fire  cabinet  members  of  whom  the  army 
did  not  approve,  pushed  her  policies  rightward,  and  lent  an  air 
of  impermanence  to  her  achievements. 

Criticism  of  the  Aquino  administration  came  from  all  parts  of 
the  political  spectrum.  Filipino  communists  refused  to  participate 
in  a  government  they  saw  as  a  thin  cover  for  oligarchy.  The 
democratic  left  criticized  Aquino  for  abandoning  sweeping  reform 
and  for  her  pro-business  and  pro- American  policies.  Her  own  vice 
president,  Salvador  H.  Laurel,  castigated  her  mercilessly  from  the 
beginning  and  even  encouraged  the  army  to  overthrow  her.  The 
far  right  (sugar  barons,  military  malcontents,  and  ex-Marcos  cro- 
nies) characterized  her  as  naive  and  ineffective  and  ridiculed  her 
for  being  what  she  always  said  she  was,  a  "simple  housewife."  In 
reality  she  was  far  more  than  that.  Amidst  this  cacophony,  Aquino 
seemed  to  have  calmly  accepted  that  she  would  not  be  able  to  resolve 
the  Philippines'  deeply  rooted  structural  problems  and  that  it  would 
be  enough  to  have  restored  political  democracy.  She  prepared  the 
ground  for  her  successor. 

The  Roman  Catholic  Church  also  was  a  major  political  factor. 
It  had  reverted  to  a  less  visible  (but  no  less  influential)  role  than 
in  the  declining  years  of  Marcos 's  rule,  when  its  relative  invulner- 
ability to  harassment  spurred  priests  and  nuns  to  become  political 
activists.  Most  church  leaders  criticized  human  rights  abuses  by 
military  units  or  vigilantes,  but  they  supported  constitutional 
government.  Cardinal  Jaime  Sin,  who  played  such  a  pivotal  role 
in  Aquino's  triumph  over  Marcos,  recognized  her  personal  virtue 
but  denounced  the  corruption  that  stained  her  administration.  Some 
parish  priests,  disgusted  by  the  country's  extreme  polarization  of 
wealth  and  power,  cooperated  with  the  New  People's  Army  (see 
The  Communist  Insurgency,  ch.  5). 


192 


Government  and  Politics 


The  communist  insurgency  had  not  been  eradicated,  although 
guerrillas  posed  less  of  a  threat  than  they  did  before  1986.  Despite 
being  weakened  by  murderous  internal  purges,  the  New  People's 
Army  was  a  real  alternative  to  the  elected  government.  The  class 
inequities  it  condemned  and  had  fought  against  for  more  than 
twenty  years  continued  to  grow  in  the  early  1990s.  The  govern- 
ment's fight  against  Filipino  Muslim  separatists  in  Mindanao  like- 
wise continued,  also  at  a  diminished  level. 

Philippine  foreign  relations  in  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s  were 
colored  by  the  contradiction  between  the  country's  nationalistic  feel- 
ings and  the  fact  of  its  economic  dependency  on  other  nations.  Af- 
ter nearly  fifty  years  of  independence,  Filipinos  still  viewed  their 
national  identity  as  undefined  and  saw  international  respect  as  elu- 
sive. They  chafed  at  perceived  constraints  on  their  sovereign 
prerogatives  and  resented  the  power  of  foreign  business  owners  and 
military  advisers.  Yet,  as  a  poor  nation  deeply  in  debt  to  private 
banks,  multilateral  lending  institutions,  and  foreign  governments, 
the  Philippines  had  to  meet  conditions  imposed  by  its  creditors. 
This  situation  was  galling  to  nationalists,  especially  because  the 
previous  regime  had  squandered  its  borrowed  money.  Filipinos  also 
sought  to  achieve  a  more  balanced  foreign  policy  to  replace  the 
uncomfortably  close  economic,  cultural,  military,  and  personal  ties 
that  bound  them  to  the  United  States,  but  this  was  unlikely  to  hap- 
pen soon. 

Government  Structure 

In  1991  the  government  was  led  by  President  Corazon  C.  Aquino, 
who  was  head  of  state,  chief  executive,  and  commander  in  chief 
of  the  armed  forces.  The  vice  president,  who  under  the  Philippine 
constitution  need  not  belong  to  the  same  party  as  the  president, 
was  Salvador  H.  Laurel.  Aquino  did  not  seek  to  create  a  political 
party  to  perpetuate  her  rule,  preferring  instead  to  rely  on  her  per- 
sonal popularity,  which  initially  was  strong  but  diminished  through- 
out her  term. 

Constitutional  Framework 

The  Philippines  has  a  long  history  of  democratic  constitutional 
development.  The  Malolos  constitution  of  1898-99  reflected  the 
aspirations  of  educated  Filipinos  to  create  a  polity  as  enlightened 
as  any  in  the  world  (see  The  Malolos  Constitution  and  the  Treaty 
of  Paris,  ch.  1).  That  first  constitution  was  modeled  on  those  of 
France,  Belgium,  and  some  of  the  South  American  republics.  Pow- 
ers were  divided,  but  the  legislature  was  supreme.  A  bill  of  rights 
guaranteed  individual  liberties.  The  church  was  separated  from 


193 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

the  state,  but  this  provision  was  included  only  after  a  long  debate 
and  passed  only  by  a  single  vote.  The  Malolos  constitution  was 
in  effect  only  briefly;  United  States  troops  soon  installed  a  coloni- 
al government,  which  remained  in  effect  until  the  establishment 
of  the  Philippine  Commonwealth  in  1935  (see  Commonwealth  Pol- 
itics, 1935-41,  ch.  1). 

The  1935  constitution,  drawn  up  under  the  terms  of  the  Tydings- 
McDuffie  Act,  which  created  the  Philippine  Commonwealth,  also 
served  as  a  basis  for  an  independent  Philippine  government  from 
1946  until  1973  (see  Independence  and  Constitutional  Government, 
1945-72,  ch.  1).  The  framers  of  the  Commonwealth  constitution 
were  not  completely  free  to  choose  any  type  of  government  they 
wanted,  inasmuch  as  their  work  had  to  be  approved  by  United 
States  president  Franklin  D.  Roosevelt.  In  addition,  many  were 
legal  scholars  familiar  with  American  constitutional  law;  it  is  not 
surprising,  then,  that  they  produced  a  document  strongly  modeled 
on  the  United  States  Constitution.  In  fact,  the  1935  constitution 
differed  from  the  United  States  document  in  only  two  important 
respects:  government  was  unitary  rather  than  federal,  local  govern- 
ments being  subject  to  general  supervision  by  the  president;  and 
the  president  could  declare  an  emergency  and  temporarily  exer- 
cise near-dictatorial  power.  This  latter  provision  was  used  by  Mar- 
cos after  September  1972,  when  he  declared  martial  law. 

The  1935  constitution  seemed  to  serve  the  nation  well.  It  gave 
the  Philippines  twenty-six  years  of  stable,  constitutional  govern- 
ment during  a  period  when  a  number  of  other  Asian  states  were 
succumbing  to  military  dictatorship  or  communist  revolution.  By 
the  late  1960s,  however,  many  Filipinos  had  come  to  believe  that 
the  constitution  only  provided  a  democratic  political  cloak  for  a 
profoundly  oligarchic  society.  A  constitutional  convention  was  called 
to  rewrite  the  basic  law  of  the  land. 

The  delegates  selected  to  rewrite  the  constitution  hoped  to  re- 
tain its  democratic  essence  while  deleting  parts  deemed  to  be  un- 
suitable relics  of  the  colonial  past.  They  hoped  to  produce  a 
genuinely  Filipino  document.  But  before  their  work  could  be  com- 
pleted, Marcos  declared  martial  law  and  manipulated  the  constitu- 
tional convention  to  serve  his  purposes.  The  1973  constitution  was 
a  deviation  from  the  Philippines'  commitment  to  democratic  ideals. 
Marcos  abolished  Congress  and  ruled  by  presidential  decree  from 
September  1972  until  1978,  when  a  parliamentary  government  with 
a  legislature  called  the  National  Assembly  replaced  the  presiden- 
tial system.  But  Marcos  exercised  all  the  powers  of  president  un- 
der the  old  system,  plus  the  powers  of  prime  minister  under  the 


194 


Main  entrance  to  Malacanang  Palace 
Courtesy  Robert  L.  Worden 

new  system.  When  Marcos  was  driven  from  office  in  1986,  the  1973 
constitution  was  also  jettisoned. 

After  she  came  to  power  on  March  25,  1986,  Aquino  issued 
Presidential  Proclamation  No.  3,  which  promulgated  an  interim 
"Freedom  constitution"  that  gave  her  sweeping  powers  theoreti- 
cally even  greater  than  those  Marcos  had  enjoyed.  She  promised, 
however,  to  use  her  emergency  powers  only  to  restore  democracy, 
not  to  perpetuate  herself  in  power.  She  claimed  that  she  needed 
a  free  hand  to  restore  democracy,  revive  the  economy,  gain  con- 
trol of  the  military,  and  repatriate  some  of  the  national  wealth  that 
Marcos  and  his  partners  had  purloined.  Minister  of  Justice  Nep- 
tali  Gonzales  described  the  Freedom  Constitution  as  "civilian  in 
character,  revolutionary  in  origin,  democratic  in  essence,  and  tran- 
sitory in  character."  The  Freedom  Constitution  was  to  remain  in 
effect  until  a  new  legislature  was  convened  and  a  constitutional  con- 
vention could  write  a  new,  democratic  constitution  to  be  ratified 
by  national  plebiscite.  The  process  took  sixteen  months. 

Although  many  Filipinos  thought  delegates  to  the  Constitution- 
al Commission  should  be  elected,  Aquino  appointed  them,  saying 
that  the  Philippines  could  not  afford  the  time  or  expense  of  an  elec- 
tion. On  May  25,  1986,  she  selected  forty-four  names  from 
hundreds  suggested  by  her  cabinet  and  the  public.  She  appointed 


195 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

respected,  prominent  citizens  and,  to  be  on  the  safe  side,  prohibit- 
ed them  from  running  for  office  for  one  year  after  the  constitu- 
tion's ratification.  Delegates  had  the  same  profile  as  those  who  had 
drawn  up  the  constitutions  of  1898  and  1935:  they  were  wealthy 
and  well  educated.  They  represented  a  range  of  political  stances: 
some  were  leftists  and  some  were  ardent  nationalists,  but  moder- 
ate conservatives  held  a  majority.  There  were  thirty  lawyers,  in- 
cluding two  former  Supreme  Court  justices.  A  nun,  a  priest,  and 
a  bishop  represented  the  interests  of  the  Catholic  Church.  Eight 
commissioners  had  also  served  in  the  aborted  constitutional  con- 
vention of  1972.  Five  seats  on  the  fifty-member  commission  were 
reserved  for  Marcos  supporters,  defined  as  members  of  Marcos 's 
New  Society  Movement,  and  were  filled  by  former  Minister  of 
Labor  Bias  Ople  and  four  associates.  One  seat  was  reserved  for 
the  Iglesia  ni  Kristo  (Church  of  Christ),  which,  however,  declined 
to  participate.  One  of  Aquino's  appointees,  leftist  movie  producer 
Lino  Brocka,  resigned,  so  the  final  number  of  commissioners  was 
forty-eight. 

The  commission  divided  itself  into  fourteen  committees  and  be- 
gan work  amidst  great  public  interest,  which,  however,  soon  waned. 
Long,  legalistic  hearings  were  sometimes  poorly  attended.  Aquino 
is  known  to  have  intervened  to  influence  only  one  decision  of  the 
commission.  She  voiced  her  support  of  a  loophole  in  the  constitu- 
tion's antinuclear  weapons  provision  that  allowed  the  president  to 
declare  that  nuclear  weapons,  if  present  on  United  States  bases, 
were  "in  the  national  interest." 

The  commissioners  quickly  abandoned  the  parliamentary  govern- 
ment that  Marcos  had  fancied,  and  arguments  for  a  unicameral 
legislature  also  were  given  short  shrift.  Most  delegates  favored  a 
return  to  something  very  much  like  the  1935  constitution,  with 
numerous  symbolic  clauses  to  appease  "cause-oriented"  groups. 
The  most  controversial  proposals  were  those  pertaining  to  the  Philip- 
pine claim  to  Sabah,  presidential  emergency  powers,  land  reform, 
the  rights  of  labor,  the  role  of  foreign  investment,  and  United  States 
military  base  rights.  Special  attention  focused  on  proposals  to  declare 
Philippine  territory  a  nuclear-free  zone. 

Aquino  had  asked  the  Constitutional  Commission  to  complete 
its  work  within  ninety  days,  by  September  2,  1986.  Lengthy  pub- 
lic hearings  (some  in  the  provinces)  and  contentious  floor  debates, 
however,  caused  this  deadline  to  be  missed.  The  final  version  of 
the  constitution,  similar  to  a  "draft  proposal"  drawn  up  in  June 
by  the  University  of  the  Philippines  Law  School,  was  presented 
to  Aquino  on  October  1 5 .  The  commission  had  approved  it  by  a 
vote  of  forty-four  to  two. 


196 


Government  and  Politics 


Tlie  constitution,  one  of  the  longest  in  the  world,  establishes  three 
separate  departments  of  government:  executive,  legislative,  and 
judicial.  It  mandates  a  number  of  independent  commissions:  the 
Commission  on  Elections  and  the  Commission  on  Audit,  continued 
from  the  old  constitution;  and  two  others,  the  Commission  on  Hu- 
man Rights  and  the  Commission  on  Good  Government,  formed 
in  reaction  to  Marcos's  abuses.  The  Commission  on  Good  Govern- 
ment is  charged  with  the  task  of  repossessing  ill-gotten  wealth  ac- 
quired during  the  Marcos  regime. 

Some  ambitious  Filipino  politicians  hoped  that  the  new  consti- 
tution would  invalidate  the  1986  presidential  election  and  require 
that  a  new  election  be  held.  Their  hopes  were  dashed  by  the  "tran- 
sitory provisions"  in  Article  17  of  the  new  constitution  that  con- 
firmed Aquino  in  office  until  June  30,  1992.  Other  officials  first 
elected  under  the  new  constitution  also  were  to  serve  until  1992. 

Article  3,  the  bill  of  rights,  contains  the  same  rights  found  in 
the  United  States  Constitution  (often  in  identical  wording),  as  well 
as  some  additional  rights.  The  exclusionary  rule,  for  example,  pro- 
hibits illegally  gathered  evidence  from  being  used  at  a  trial.  Other 
rights  include  a  freedom-of-information  clause,  the  right  to  form 
unions,  and  the  requirement  that  suspects  be  informed  of  their  right 
to  remain  silent. 

The  church  and  state  are  separated,  but  Catholic  influence  can 
be  seen  in  parts  of  the  constitution.  An  article  on  the  family  down- 
plays birth  control;  another  clause  directs  the  state  to  protect  the 
life  of  the  unborn  beginning  with  conception;  and  still  another  clause 
abolishes  the  death  penalty.  Church-owned  land  also  is  tax-exempt. 

The  explosive  issue  of  agrarian  reform  is  treated  gingerly.  The 
state  is  explicitly  directed  to  undertake  the  redistribution  of  land 
to  those  who  till  it,  but  "just  compensation"  must  be  paid  to  present 
owners,  and  Congress  (expected  to  be  dominated  by  landowners) 
is  given  the  power  to  prescribe  limits  on  the  amount  of  land  that 
can  be  retained.  To  resolve  the  controversial  issue  of  United  States 
military  bases,  the  constitution  requires  that  any  future  agreement 
must  be  in  the  form  of  a  treaty  that  is  ratified  by  two-thirds  of  the 
Senate  and,  if  the  Congress  requires,  ratified  by  a  majority  of  the 
votes  cast  in  a  national  referendum. 

Many  provisions  lend  a  progressive  spirit  to  the  constitution, 
but  these  provisions  are  symbolic  declarations  of  the  framers'  hopes 
and  are  unenforceable.  For  example,  the  state  is  to  make  decent 
housing  available  to  underprivileged  citizens.  Priority  is  to  be  given 
to  the  sick,  elderly,  disabled,  women,  and  children.  Wealth  and 
political  power  are  to  be  diffused  for  the  common  good.  The  state 


197 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


shall  maintain  honesty  and  integrity  in  the  public  service.  To  be 
implemented,  all  of  these  declarations  of  intent  required  legislation. 

Aquino  scheduled  a  plebiscite  on  the  new  constitution  for  Febru- 
ary 2,  1987.  Ratification  of  the  constitution  was  supported  by  a 
loose  coalition  of  centrist  parties  and  by  the  Catholic  Church.  The 
constitution  was  opposed  by  both  the  Communist  Party  of  the 
Philippines — Marxist  Leninist  (referred  to  as  the  CPP)  and  the 
leftist  May  First  Movement  (Kilusang  Mayo  Uno).  They  opposed 
it  for  three  reasons:  the  constitution  was  tepid  on  land  reform,  it 
did  not  absolutely  ban  nuclear  weapons  from  Philippine  territory, 
and  it  offered  incentives  to  foreign  investors.  But  the  communists 
were  in  disarray  after  their  colossal  mistake  of  boycotting  the  elec- 
tion that  overthrew  Marcos,  and  their  objections  carried  little 
weight.  The  constitution  faced  more  serious  opposition  from  the 
right,  led  by  President  Aquino's  discontented,  now  ex-defense 
minister,  Juan  Ponce  Enrile,  who  reassembled  elements  of  the  old 
Nacionalista  Party  to  campaign  for  a  no  vote  to  protest  what  he 
called  the  "Aquino  dictatorship." 

Aquino  toured  the  country  campaigning  for  a  yes  vote,  trading 
heavily  on  her  enormous  personal  prestige.  The  referendum  was 
judged  by  most  observers  to  turn  more  on  Aquino's  popularity  than 
on  the  actual  merits  of  the  constitution,  which  few  people  had  read. 
Her  slogan  was  "Yes  to  Cory,  Yes  to  Country,  Yes  to  Democra- 
cy, and  Yes  to  the  constitution. ' '  Aquino  also  showed  that  she  was 
familiar  with  traditional  Filipino  pork-barrel  politics,  promising 
voters  in  Bicol  1,061  new  classrooms  "as  a  sign  of  my  gratitude" 
if  they  voted  yes. 

The  plebiscite  was  fairly  conducted  and  orderly.  An  overwhelm- 
ing three- to-one  vote  approved  of  the  constitution,  confirmed  Aq- 
uino in  office  until  1992,  and  dealt  a  stunning  defeat  to  her  critics. 
Above  all  else,  the  victory  indicated  a  vote  for  stability  in  the  midst 
of  turmoil.  There  was  only  one  ominous  note:  a  majority  of  the 
military  voted  against  the  referendum.  Aquino  proclaimed  the  new 
constitution  in  effect  on  February  11,  1987,  and  made  all  mem- 
bers of  the  military  swear  loyalty  to  it. 

National  Government 

Under  the  constitution,  the  government  is  divided  into  execu- 
tive, legislative,  and  judicial  departments.  The  separation  of  pow- 
ers is  based  on  the  theory  of  checks  and  balances.  The  presidency 
is  not  as  strong  as  it  was  under  the  1973  constitution.  Local  govern- 
ments are  subordinated  to  the  national  government  (see  fig.  8). 


198 


Government  and  Politics 


Executive  Department 

Article  6  of  the  1987  constitution  restores  the  presidential  sys- 
tem with  certain  modifications.  The  president  is  elected  by  a  direct 
vote  of  the  people  for  a  term  of  six  years  and  is  not  eligible  for  re- 
election. The  president  must  be  a  natural-born  citizen  of  the  Philip- 
pines, at  least  forty  years  of  age,  and  a  resident  of  the  Philippines 
for  at  least  ten  years  immediately  preceding  the  election. 

The  president  is  empowered  to  control  all  the  executive  depart- 
ments, bureaus,  and  offices,  and  to  ensure  that  the  laws  are  faith- 
fully executed.  Presidential  nominations  of  heads  of  executive 
departments  and  ambassadors  are  confirmed  by  a  Commission  on 
Appointments,  consisting  of  twelve  senators  and  twelve  represen- 
tatives. The  president  may  grant  amnesty  (for  example,  to  former 
communists,  Muslim  rebels,  or  military  mutineers)  with  the  con- 
currence of  a  majority  of  all  the  members  of  Congress  and,  as  chief 
diplomat,  negotiate  treaties,  which  must  be  ratified  by  two- thirds 
of  the  Senate. 

The  constitution  contains  many  clauses  intended  to  preclude  repe- 
tition of  abuses  such  as  those  committed  by  Marcos.  The  presi- 
dent's spouse  cannot  be  appointed  to  any  government  post  (a 
reaction  to  Imelda  Marcos 's  immoderate  accumulation  of  titles  and 
powers).  The  public  must  be  informed  if  the  president  becomes 
seriously  ill  (a  reaction  to  the  belated  discovery  of  numerous  kidney- 
dialysis  machines  in  Marcos 's  bedroom  in  Malacafiang).  The  presi- 
dent is  prohibited  from  owning  any  company  that  does  business 
with  the  government.  And  the  armed  forces  must  be  recruited 
proportionately  from  all  provinces  and  cities  as  far  as  is  practica- 
ble, in  order  to  prevent  a  future  president  from  repeating  Mar- 
cos's  ploy  of  padding  the  officer  corps  with  people  from  his  home 
province. 

Constitutional  safeguards  also  prevent  the  president  from  rul- 
ing indefinitely  under  emergency  powers.  Martial  law  may  be 
proclaimed,  but  only  for  sixty  days.  The  president  must  notify  Con- 
gress of  the  institution  of  martial  law  within  forty-eight  hours,  and 
Congress  can  revoke  martial  law  by  a  simple  majority  vote.  The 
president  may  not  abolish  Congress.  The  Supreme  Court  may 
review  and  invalidate  a  presidential  proclamation  of  martial  law. 
Of  course,  Congress  can  grant  the  president  emergency  powers 
at  any  time. 

The  vice  president  has  the  same  term  of  office  as  the  president 
and  is  elected  in  the  same  manner.  The  vice  president  also  may 
serve  as  a  member  of  the  cabinet.  No  vice  president  may  serve  for 
more  than  two  successive  terms.  The  president  and  vice  president 


199 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


o 

m 

ui 
> 

I*" 
< 
-J 

22 
O 
m 


cc 

o 
o 

ID 

HI 
£ 
Q. 

CO 


co 

hX-J 
DC  <  < 

O  ^  n 

oo5? 


<  ° 
5° 


UJ 


5  < 

CC  _J 

HI  -J 

h-  UJ 

Z  CL 

—  CL 
< 


_l 

< 

CO 

It 

GIOI 

UJ 

o 

cc 

UJ 


o  - 

>  UJ 

cc 

CL 


Z  UJ 

o:  O  o 
O  (f)  u. 

CO  U- 

<  m  o 

O  z 
O  < 


It 

_l 

11 

o 
z 

h-  O 
<  UJ 

CO! 

Z  CO 

c 
o 
«o 

"35 

a 
o 

£ 


o 

JQ 
3 

CO 


32 

"55 

a. 

a> 
o 

> 


CO 
CO 


200 


Government  and  Politics 


are  not  elected  as  a  team.  Thus,  they  may  be  ideologically  opposed, 
or  even  personal  rivals. 

In  1991  the  president's  cabinet  consisted  of  the  executive  secre- 
tary (who  controlled  the  flow  of  paper  and  visitors  reaching  the 
president),  the  press  secretary,  the  cabinet  secretary,  and  the  na- 
tional security  adviser,  and  the  secretaries  of  the  following  depart- 
ments: agrarian  reform;  agriculture;  budget  and  management; 
economic  planning;  education,  culture,  and  sports;  environment 
and  natural  resources;  finance;  foreign  affairs;  health;  interior  and 
local  governments;  justice;  labor  and  employment;  national  defense; 
public  works  and  highways;  science  and  technology;  social  welfare 
and  development;  tourism;  trade  and  industry;  and  transportation 
and  communications.  Cabinet  members  directed  a  vast  bureau- 
cracy— 2.6  million  Filipinos  were  on  the  government  payroll  in 
1988. 

The  bureaucracy  in  the  late  1980s  was  overseen  by  a  constitu- 
tionally independent  Civil  Service  Commission,  the  members  of 
which  were  appointed  by  the  president  to  a  single  nonrenewable 
term  of  seven  years.  Because  the  constitution  prohibits  defeated 
political  candidates  from  becoming  civil  servants,  bureaucratic  po- 
sitions cannot  be  used  as  consolation  prizes. 

Two  problems,  in  particular,  have  plagued  the  civil  service:  cor- 
ruption (especially  in  the  Bureau  of  Customs  and  the  Bureau  of 
Internal  Revenue)  and  the  natural  tendency,  in  the  absence  of  a 
forceful  chief  executive,  of  cabinet  secretaries  to  run  their  depart- 
ments as  independent  fiefdoms.  Bribes,  payoffs,  and  shakedowns 
characterized  Philippine  government  and  society  at  all  levels.  The 
Philippine  Chamber  of  Commerce  and  Industry  estimated  in  1988 
that  one-third  of  the  annual  national  budget  was  lost  to  corrup- 
tion. Corruption  also  occurred  because  of  cultural  values.  The  Filipi- 
no bureaucrat  who  did  not  help  a  friend  or  relative  in  need  was 
regarded  as  lacking  a  sense  of  utang  na  loob,  or  repayment  of  debts 
(see  Social  Values  and  Organization,  ch.  2).  Many  Filipinos  recog- 
nize this  old-fashioned  value  as  being  detrimental  to  economic  de- 
velopment. A  1988  congressional  study  concluded  that  because  of 
their  "personalistic  world  view,"  Filipinos  were  "uncomfortable 
with  bureaucracy,  with  rules  and  regulations,  and  with  standard 
procedures,  all  of  which  tend  to  be  impersonal. ' '  When  faced  with 
such  rules,  they  often  "ignore  them  or  ask  for  exceptions." 

Legislative  Department 

The  Philippines  is  unusual  among  developing  countries  in  hav- 
ing a  strong,  bicameral  legislature.  The  constitution  establishes  a 
24-seat  Senate  and  a  House  of  Representatives  with  200  elected 


201 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


representatives  and  up  to  50  more  appointed  by  the  president.  Sen- 
ators are  chosen  at  large,  and  the  twenty-four  highest  vote-getters 
nationwide  are  elected.  Senators  must  be  native-born  Filipinos  at 
least  thirty-five  years  old.  The  term  of  office  is  six  years,  and  sen- 
ators cannot  serve  more  than  two  consecutive  terms. 

House  of  Representatives  members  are  elected  in  single-member 
districts  (200  in  1991),  reapportioned  within  three  years  of  each 
census.  Representatives  must  be  native-born  Filipinos  and  at  least 
twenty-five  years  of  age.  Their  term  of  office  is  three  years,  except 
for  those  elected  in  May  1987,  who  did  not  have  to  face  the  elec- 
torate until  1992.  They  may  not  serve  for  more  than  three  con- 
secutive terms.  In  addition,  President  Aquino  was  to  be  empowered 
to  appoint  to  the  House  of  Representatives  up  to  twenty-five  peo- 
ple from  "party  lists."  This  stipulation  was  intended  to  provide 
a  kind  of  proportional  representation  for  small  parties  unable  to 
win  any  single-member  district  seats.  However,  Congress  did  not 
pass  the  necessary  enabling  legislation.  The  president  also  is  al- 
lowed to  appoint  up  to  twenty-five  members  from  so-called  sec- 
toral groups,  such  as  women,  labor,  farmers,  the  urban  poor, 
mountain  tribes,  and  other  groups  not  normally  well-represented 
in  Congress  "except  the  religious  sector."  Making  these  appoint- 
ments would  have  provided  an  opportunity  for  Aquino  to  reward 
her  supporters  and  influence  Congress,  but  she  has  left  most  such 
positions  unfilled.  All  members  of  both  houses  of  Congress  are  re- 
quired to  make  a  full  disclosure  of  their  financial  and  business  in- 
terests. 

The  constitution  authorizes  Congress  to  conduct  inquiries,  to 
declare  war  (by  a  two- thirds  vote  of  both  houses  in  joint  session), 
and  to  override  a  presidential  veto  with  a  two-thirds  vote  of  both 
houses.  All  appropriations  bills  must  originate  in  the  House,  but 
the  president  is  given  a  line-item  veto  over  them.  The  Senate  rati- 
fies treaties  by  a  two-thirds  vote. 

The  first  free  congressional  elections  in  nearly  two  decades  were 
held  on  May  11,  1987.  The  pre-martial  law  Philippine  Congress, 
famous  for  logrolling  and  satisfying  individual  demands,  was  shut 
down  by  Marcos  in  1972.  The  1973  constitution  created  a  rubber- 
stamp  parliament,  or  National  Assembly,  which  only  began  func- 
tioning in  1978  and  which  was  timid  in  confronting  Marcos  until 
some  opposition  members  were  elected  in  May  1984.  In  the  1987 
elections,  more  than  26  million  Filipinos,  or  83  percent  of  eligible 
voters,  cast  their  ballots  at  104,000  polling  stations.  Twenty- three 
of  twenty-four  Aquino-endorsed  Senate  candidates  won.  The  lone 
senator  opposed  to  Aquino  was  former  Minister  of  Defense  Juan 
Ponce  Enrile,  her  husband's  former  jailer  and  her  one-time 


202 


Government  and  Politics 


defender.  Enrile  was  seated  as  the  twenty-fourth  and  final  mem- 
ber of  the  Senate,  after  the  Supreme  Court  ordered  the  Commis- 
sion on  Elections  to  abandon  plans  for  a  recount.  The  new 
legislature  was  formally  convened  on  July  27,  1987.  The  leader 
of  the  Senate  is  the  Senate  president,  who  stands  next  in  the  line 
of  succession  for  the  presidency  after  the  country's  vice  president. 
Generally,  the  Senate  had  a  reputation  as  a  prestigious  body  with 
a  truly  national  outlook,  in  contrast  to  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives, which  had  more  parochial  concerns. 

At  least  three-quarters  of  those  elected  to  the  House  were  en- 
dorsed by  Aquino,  but  her  influence  was  less  than  these  results 
might  seem  to  indicate.  She  never  formed  her  own  political  party 
but  merely  endorsed  men  and  women  with  various  ideologies,  who, 
because  of  their  illustrious  family  names  and  long  political  ex- 
perience, were  probably  going  to  win  anyway.  Out  of  200  elected 
House  members,  169  either  belonged  to  or  were  related  to  old-line 
political  families.  Philippine  politics  still  was  the  art  of  assembling 
a  winning  coalition  of  clans. 

Congress  did  not  hesitate  to  challenge  the  president.  For  exam- 
ple, in  September  1987,  less  than  two  months  after  the  new  Con- 
gress convened,  it  summoned  the  presidential  executive  secretary 
to  testify  about  the  conduct  of  his  office.  The  following  year,  Con- 
gress also  rejected  Aquino's  proposed  administrative  code,  which 
would  have  conferred  greater  power  on  the  secretary  of  national 
defense. 

The  internal  operation  of  Congress  has  been  slowed  by  ineffi- 
ciency and  a  lack  of  party  discipline.  Legislation  often  has  been 
detained  in  the  forty-three  House  and  thirty-six  Senate  commit- 
tees staffed  with  friends  and  relatives  of  members  of  Congress.  In- 
dicative of  the  public  frustration  with  Congress,  in  1991  the  National 
Movement  for  Free  Elections  (NAMFREL)  and  the  Makati  Busi- 
ness Club  formed  a  group  called  Congresswatch  to  monitor  the 
activities  of  sitting  congress  members  and  promote  accountability 
and  honesty. 

Judicial  Department 

The  legal  system  used  in  the  early  1990s  was  derived  for  the  most 
part  from  those  of  Spain  and  the  United  States.  Civil  code  proce- 
dures on  family  and  property  and  the  absence  of  jury  trial  were 
attributable  to  Spanish  influences,  but  most  important  statutes 
governing  trade  and  commerce,  labor  relations,  taxation,  bank- 
ing and  currency,  and  governmental  operations  were  of  United 
States  derivation,  introduced  at  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth 
century. 


203 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Judicial  power  is  vested  in  a  Supreme  Court  and  in  such  lower 
courts  as  may  be  established  by  law.  The  1981  Judicial  Reorgani- 
zation Act  provides  for  four  main  levels  of  courts  and  several  spe- 
cial courts.  At  the  local  level  are  metropolitan  trial  courts,  municipal 
trial  courts,  and  municipal  circuit  trial  courts.  The  next  level  con- 
sists of  regional  trial  courts,  one  for  each  of  the  nation's  thirteen 
political  regions,  including  Manila.  Courts  at  the  local  level  have 
original  jurisdiction  over  less  serious  criminal  cases;  more  serious 
offenses  are  heard  by  the  regional  level  courts,  which  also  have  ap- 
pellate jurisdiction.  At  the  national  level  is  the  Intermediate  Ap- 
pellate Court,  also  called  the  court  of  appeals.  Special  courts  include 
Muslim  circuit  and  district  courts  in  Moro  (Muslim  Filipino)  areas, 
the  court  of  tax  appeals,  and  the  Sandiganbayan.  The  Sandigan- 
bayan  tries  government  officers  and  employees  charged  with  vio- 
lation of  the  Anti-Graft  and  Corrupt  Practices  Act. 

The  Supreme  Court,  at  the  apex  of  the  judicial  system,  consists 
of  a  chief  justice  and  fourteen  associate  justices.  It  has  original  juris- 
diction over  cases  affecting  ambassadors,  other  public  ministers, 
and  consuls,  and  over  petitions  for  injunctions  and  writs  of  habeas 
corpus;  it  has  appellate  jurisdiction  over  all  cases  in  which  the  con- 
stitutionality of  any  treaty,  law,  presidential  decree,  proclamation, 
order,  or  regulation  is  questioned.  The  Supreme  Court  also  may 
hear  appeals  in  criminal  cases  involving  a  sentence  of  life  in  prison. 
Article  3  of  the  constitution  forbids  the  death  penalty  "unless,  for 
compelling  reasons  involving  heinous  crimes,  the  Congress  here- 
after provides  for  it." 

The  Supreme  Court  also  regulates  the  practice  of  law  in  the 
Philippines,  promulgates  rules  on  admission  to  the  bar,  and  dis- 
ciplines lawyers.  To  be  admitted  to  the  Integrated  Bar  of  the  Philip- 
pines, candidates  must  pass  an  examination  that  is  administered 
once  annually.  Professional  standards  are  similar  to  those  of  the 
United  States;  the  Integrated  Bar  Association's  code  borrows  heavily 
from  the  American  Bar  Association's  rules.  Some  30,000  attorneys 
practiced  law  in  the  Philippines  in  the  mid-1980s,  more  than  one- 
third  of  them  in  Manila.  Counsel  for  the  indigent,  while  not  al- 
ways available,  is  provided  by  government  legal  aid  offices  and  var- 
ious private  organizations.  Many  of  the  private  groups  are  active 
in  representing  "social  justice"  causes  and  are  staffed  by  volunteers. 

Members  of  the  Supreme  Court  and  judges  of  lower  courts  are 
appointed  by  the  president  from  a  list  of  at  least  three  nominees 
prepared  by  the  Judicial  and  Bar  Council  for  every  vacancy.  The 
Judicial  and  Bar  Council  consists  of  a  representative  of  the  Integrat- 
ed Bar,  a  law  professor,  a  retired  member  of  the  Supreme  Court, 
and  a  representative  of  the  private  sector.  Presidential  appointments 


204 


Government  and  Politics 


do  not  require  confirmation.  Supreme  Court  justices  must  be  at 
least  forty  years  of  age  when  appointed  and  must  retire  at  age 
seventy.  According  to  Article  11  of  the  constitution,  members  of 
the  Supreme  Court  "may  be  removed  from  office  on  impeachment 
for,  and  conviction  of,  culpable  violation  of  the  constitution,  trea- 
son, bribery,  graft  and  corruption,  other  high  crimes,  or  betrayal 
of  public  trust."  The  House  has  exclusive  power  to  initiate  cases 
of  impeachment.  The  Senate  tries  such  cases,  and  two-thirds  of 
the  Senate  must  concur  to  convict  someone.  The  judiciary  is  guaran- 
teed fiscal  autonomy. 

The  armed  forces  maintain  an  autonomous  military  justice  sys- 
tem. Military  courts  are  under  the  authority  of  the  judge  advocate 
general  of  the  armed  forces,  who  is  also  responsible  for  the  prose- 
cutorial function  in  the  military  courts.  Military  courts  operate  un- 
der their  own  procedures  but  are  required  to  accord  the  accused 
the  same  constitutional  safeguards  received  by  civilians.  Military 
tribunals  have  jurisdiction  over  all  active-duty  members  of  the 
Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines. 

The  traditional  independence  of  the  courts  had  been  heavily  com- 
promised in  the  Marcos  era.  Because  the  1973  constitution  allowed 
Marcos  to  fire  members  of  the  judiciary,  including  members  of 
the  Supreme  Court,  at  any  time,  anyone  inclined  to  oppose  him 
was  intimidated  into  either  complying  or  resigning.  None  of  his 
acts  or  decrees  was  declared  unconstitutional.  The  thirteen  Marcos- 
appointed  Supreme  Court  justices  resigned  after  he  fled,  and 
Aquino  immediately  appointed  ten  new  justices. 

The  Philippines  has  always  been  a  highly  litigious  society,  and 
the  courts  often  were  used  to  carry  on  personal  vendettas  and  fam- 
ily feuds.  There  was  widespread  public  perception  that  at  least  some 
judges  could  be  bought.  Public  confidence  in  the  judicial  system 
was  dealt  a  particular  blow  in  1988  when  a  special  prosecutor  al- 
leged that  six  Supreme  Court  justices  had  pressured  him  to  "go 
easy"  on  their  friends.  The  offended  justices  threatened  to  cite  the 
prosecutor  for  contempt.  Aquino  did  not  take  sides  in  this  dispute. 
The  net  effect  was  to  confirm  many  Filipinos'  cynicism  about  the 
impartiality  of  justice. 

Justice  was  endlessly  delayed  in  the  late  1980s.  Court  calendars 
were  jammed.  Most  lower  courts  lacked  stenographers.  A  former 
judge  reported  in  1988  that  judges  routinely  scheduled  as  many 
as  twenty  hearings  at  the  same  time  in  the  knowledge  that  lawyers 
would  show  up  only  to  ask  for  a  postponement.  One  tax  case  heard 
in  1988  had  been  filed  50  years  before,  and  a  study  of  the  tax  court 
showed  that  even  if  the  judges  were  to  work  50  percent  faster,  it 
would  take  them  476  years  to  catch  up.  Even  in  the  spectacular 


205 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

case  of  the  1983  murder  of  Senator  Benigno  Aquino,  the  judicial 
system  did  not  function  speedily  or  reliably.  It  took  five  years  to 
convict  some  middle-ranking  officers,  and  although  the  verdict 
obliquely  hinted  at  then  Chief  of  Staff  General  Fabian  Ver's  ulti- 
mate responsibility,  the  court  never  directiy  addressed  that  question. 

The  indictment  of  former  Minister  of  Defense  Enrile  on  the 
charge  of  "rebellion  with  murder"  shows  that  the  courts  can  be 
independent  of  the  president,  but  also  that  powerful  people  are  han- 
dled gently.  Enrile  was  arrested  on  February  27,  1990,  for  his  al- 
leged role  in  the  December  1989  coup  attempt  in  which  more  than 
100  people  died.  Because  Enrile  was  powerful,  he  was  given  an 
air-conditioned  suite  in  jail,  a  telephone,  and  a  computer,  and  a 
week  later  he  was  released  on  100,000  pesos  (for  value  of  the  peso — 
see  Glossary)  bail.  In  June  1990,  the  Supreme  Court  invalidated 
the  charges  against  him.  A  further  test  of  the  court  system  was  ex- 
pected in  the  1990s  when  criminal  and  civil  charges  were  to  be 
brought  against  Imelda  Marcos.  In  1991  Aquino  agreed  to  allow 
the  former  first  lady,  who  could  not  leave  New  York  City  without 
the  permission  of  the  United  States  Department  of  Justice,  to  return 
to  the  Philippines  to  face  charges  of  graft  and  corruption.  Swiss 
banking  authorities  agreed  to  return  approximately  US$350  mil- 
lion to  the  Philippine  government  only  if  Marcos  were  tried  and 
convicted.  Marcos  did  not  seem  to  be  reluctant  to  face  the  Philip- 
pine courts. 

Local  Government 

The  national  government  in  the  1990s  sought  to  upgrade  local 
government  by  delegating  some  limited  powers  to  local  subdivi- 
sions and  by  encouraging  people  to  participate  in  community  af- 
fairs. Local  autonomy  was  balanced,  however,  against  the  need 
to  ensure  effective  political  and  administrative  control  from  Manila, 
especially  in  those  areas  where  communist  or  Muslim  insurgents 
were  active.  In  practice,  provincial  governors  gained  considerable 
leverage  if  they  could  deliver  a  bloc  of  votes  to  presidential  or 
senatorial  candidates.  Control  over  provinces  generally  alternated 
between  two  rival  aristocratic  families. 

During  Marcos's  authoritarian  years  (1972-86),  a  Ministry  of 
Local  Government  was  instituted  to  invigorate  provincial, 
municipal,  and  barangay  (see  Glossary)  governments.  But,  Mar- 
cos's  real  purpose  was  to  establish  lines  of  authority  that  bypassed 
provincial  governments  and  ran  straight  to  Malacanang.  All  local 
officials  were  beholden  to  Marcos,  who  could  appoint  or  remove 
any  provincial  governor  or  town  mayor.  Those  administrators  who 


206 


Government  and  Politics 


delivered  the  votes  Marcos  asked  for  were  rewarded  with  commu- 
nity development  funds  to  spend  any  way  they  liked. 

After  the  People's  Power  Revolution,  the  new  Aquino  govern- 
ment decided  to  replace  all  the  local  officials  who  had  served  Mar- 
cos. Corazon  Aquino  delegated  this  task  to  her  political  ally, 
Aquilino  Pimentel.  Pimentel  named  officers  in  charge  of  local 
governments  all  across  the  nation.  They  served  until  the  first  local 
elections  were  held  under  the  new  constitution  on  January  18,  1988. 
Local  officials  elected  in  1988  were  to  serve  until  June  1992,  un- 
der the  transitory  clauses  of  the  new  constitution.  Thereafter,  terms 
of  office  were  to  be  three  years,  with  a  three- term  limit. 

Organization 

The  1987  constitution  retains  the  three-tiered  structure  of  local 
government.  There  were  seventy-three  provinces  in  1991  (see  fig. 
9).  The  province  was  the  largest  local  administrative  unit,  headed 
by  the  elected  governor  and  aided  by  a  vice  governor,  also  elected. 
Other  officials  were  appointed  to  head  offices  concerned  with 
finance,  tax  collection,  audit,  public  works,  agricultural  services, 
health,  and  schools.  These  functionaries  were  technically  subor- 
dinate to  the  governor  but  also  answered  to  their  respective  cen- 
tral government  ministries.  Lower  ranking  functionaries,  appointed 
by  the  governor,  were  on  the  provincial  payroll. 

Chartered  cities  stood  on  their  own,  were  not  part  of  any 
province,  did  not  elect  provincial  officials,  and  were  not  subject 
to  any  provincial  taxation,  but  they  did  have  the  power  to  levy  their 
own  taxes.  As  of  1991 ,  there  were  sixty-one  chartered  cities  headed 
by  a  mayor  and  a  vice  mayor.  The  mayor  had  some  discretionary 
power  of  local  appointment. 

Municipalities  were  subordinate  to  the  provinces.  In  1991  there 
were  approximately  1,500  municipalities.  At  the  lowest  level,  with 
the  least  autonomy,  were  barangays,  rural  villages  and  urban  neigh- 
borhoods that  were  called  barrios  until  1973.  In  1991  there  were 
about  42,000  barangays. 

Various  reorganization  schemes  have  been  undertaken  to  in- 
vigorate local  government.  One  of  the  most  far-reaching  and  ef- 
fective was  the  creation  of  a  Metro  Manila  (see  Glossary) 
government  in  the  mid-1970s  to  bring  the  four  cities  and  thirteen 
municipalities  of  the  capital  region  under  a  single  umbrella.  Metro 
Manila  is  an  example  of  what  geographers  call  the  Southeast  Asian 
primate  city,  a  single  very  large  city  that  is  the  center  of  industry, 
government,  education,  culture,  trade,  the  media,  and  finance  (see 
Urban  Social  Patterns,  ch.  2).  No  other  Philippine  city  rivaled 
Manila;  all  others  were  in  a  distinctly  lesser  league.  Continued  rapid 


207 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

population  growth  meant  that  the  boundaries  of  Metro  Manila  were 
expected  to  expand  in  the  1990s. 

During  martial  law,  the  provinces  were  grouped  into  twelve 
regions,  and  that  arrangement  was  continued  in  the  Apportion- 
ment Ordinance  appended  to  the  1987  constitution.  Because  these 
regions  did  not  have  taxing  powers  or  elected  officials  of  their  own, 
however,  they  were  more  an  administrative  convenience  for  the 
departments  of  the  national  government  than  a  unit  of  genuine 
local  importance.  In  1991  approximately  90  percent  of  government 
services  were  provided  by  the  national  government.  Attempts  by 
Aquino  to  decentralize  delivery  of  some  services  were  resisted  by 
members  of  Congress  because  such  moves  deprived  them  of 
patronage. 

The  single  biggest  problem  for  local  government  has  been  in- 
adequate funds.  Article  10  of  the  constitution  grants  each  local 
government  unit  the  power  to  create  its  own  sources  of  revenue 
and  to  levy  taxes,  but  this  power  is  "subject  to  such  guidelines  and 
limitations  as  the  Congress  may  provide."  In  practice,  taxes  were 
very  hard  to  collect,  particularly  at  the  local  level  where  officials, 
who  must  run  for  reelection  every  three  years,  were  concerned  about 
alienating  voters.  Most  local  government  funding  came  from  Ma- 
nila. There  is  a  contradiction  in  the  constitution  between  local  au- 
tonomy and  accountability  to  Manila.  The  constitution  mandates 
that  the  state  "shall  ensure  the  autonomy  of  local  governments," 
but  it  also  says  that  the  president  ' '  shall  exercise  general  supervi- 
sion over  local  governments."  The  contradiction  was  usually 
resolved  in  favor  of  the  central  government. 

Regional  Autonomy 

By  the  1990s,  Philippine  nationalism  had  not  fully  penetrated 
two  regions  of  the  country  inhabited  by  national  minorities:  the 
Muslim  parts  of  Mindanao  and  the  tribal  highlands  of  northern 
Luzon.  Some  Muslims  and  hill  tribespeople  did  not  consider  them- 
selves Filipinos,  although  they  were  citizens.  Muslim  separatism 
has  a  very  long  history.  The  Spaniards,  Americans,  and  Japanese 
all  had  difficulty  integrating  the  fiercely  independent  Moros  into 
the  national  polity,  and  independent  governments  in  Manila  since 
1946  have  fared  little  better  (see  Marcos  and  the  Road  to  Martial 
Law,  1965-72,  ch.  1).  The  Moro  insurgency  has  waxed  and  waned 
but  never  gone  away.  Enough  Muslims  participated  in  the  1987 
elections  to  elect  two  of  the  twenty-four  senators,  but  continuing 
land  disputes  were  major  factors  preventing  reconciliation  between 
Christians  and  Muslims  in  Mindanao.  The  grievances  of  tribal 
groups,  such  as  the  Ifugao  and  Igorot,  in  northern  Luzon  were 


208 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Manila  Times,  October,  13,  1990,  3. 

Figure  9.  Regions  and  Provinces,  1990 


210 


Government  and  Politics 


of  more  recent  origin,  having  been  stoked  by  ill-considered  Mar- 
cos administration  dam-building  schemes  that  entailed  flooding  val- 
leys in  the  northern  Luzon  cordillera  where  the  tribal  groups  lived. 
When  Aquino  came  to  power,  she  was  confronted  with  a  Moro 
National  Liberation  Front  demand  for  separation  from  the  Philip- 
pines and  a  Cordillera  People's  Liberation  Army  allied  with  the 
New  People's  Army.  Aquino  boldly  negotiated  a  cease-fire  with 
the  Moro  National  Liberation  Front,  and  her  constitutional  com- 
missioners provided  for  the  creation  of  autonomous  regions  in  Mus- 
lim parts  of  Mindanao  and  tribal  regions  of  northern  Luzon  (see 
The  Moros,  ch.  5). 

Article  10  of  the  constitution  directed  Congress  to  pass  within 
eighteen  months  organic  acts  creating  autonomous  regions,  provid- 
ing that  those  regions  would  be  composed  only  of  provinces,  cit- 
ies, and  geographic  areas  voting  to  be  included  in  an  autonomous 
region.  Congress  passed  a  bill  establishing  the  Autonomous  Region 
in  Muslim  Mindanao,  with  Cotabato  City  designated  as  the  seat 
of  government,  and  Aquino  signed  the  bill  into  law  on  August  1, 
1989.  The  required  plebiscite  was  set  for  November  19,  1989,  in 
thirteen  provinces  in  Mindanao  and  the  island  groups  stretching 
toward  Borneo.  The  plebiscite  campaign  was  marred  by  violence, 
including  bombings  and  attacks  by  rebels.  Aquino  flew  to  Cotabato 
on  November  6,  1990,  to  formally  inaugurate  the  Autonomous 
Region  in  Muslim  Mindanao.  She  had  already  signed  executive 
orders  devolving  to  the  Autonomous  Region  in  Muslim  Minda- 
nao the  powers  of  seven  cabinet  departments:  local  government; 
labor  and  employment;  science  and  technology;  public  works  and 
highways;  social  welfare  and  development;  tourism;  and  environ- 
ment and  natural  resources.  Control  of  national  security,  foreign 
relations,  and  other  significant  matters  remained  with  the  nation- 
al government.  Because  many  of  the  provinces  to  be  included  ac- 
tually had  Christian  majorities,  and  because  the  Moro  National 
Liberation  Front,  dissatisfied  with  what  it  perceived  to  be  the  limi- 
tations of  the  new  law,  urged  a  boycott,  only  four  provinces 
(Tawitawi,  Sulu,  Maguindanao,  and  Lanao  del  Sur)  elected  to  join 
the  Autonomous  Region  in  Muslim  Mindanao.  Cotabato  City  it- 
self voted  not  to  join.  Hence,  a  new  capital  had  to  be  identified. 
In  1991  Maranaos,  Maguindanaos,  and  Tausugs  were  disputing 
where  the  capital  should  be  (see  fig.  3).  Indications  were  that  the 
government  of  the  autonomous  region  would  not  have  superviso- 
ry power  over  local  government  officials. 

Congress  passed  a  similar  law  creating  a  Cordillera  Autonomous 
Region.  However,  in  a  referendum  held  in  five  provinces  (Abra, 
Benguet,  Mountain,  Kalinga-Apayao,  and  Ifugao)  on  January  29, 


211 


Classification  of  Provinces  by  Geographic  Regions 


ILOCOS 

llocos  Norte  (1) 
Abra  (2) 
llocos  Sur  (3) 
Mountain  (4) 
La  Union  (5) 
Benguet  (6) 
Pangasinan  (7) 


BICOL 

Camarines  Norte  (32) 
Camarines  Sur  (33) 
Catanduanes  (34) 
Albay  (35) 
Sorsogon  (36) 
Masbate  (37) 


NORTHERN  MINDANAO 

Surigao  del  Norte  (57) 
Camiguin  (58) 
Agusan  del  Norte  (59) 
Misamis  Oriental  (60) 
Bukidnon  (62) 
Agusan  del  Sur  (63) 


CAGAYAN  VALLEY 

Batanes  (8) 
Cagayan  (9) 
Kalinga-Apayao  (10) 
Isabela  (11) 
Itugao  (12) 
Nueva  Vizcaya  (13) 
Quirino  (14) 


CENTRAL  LUZON 

Nuera  Ecija  (15) 
Tarlac(16) 
Zambales  (17) 
Pampanga  (18) 
Bulacan  (19) 
Bataan  (20) 


IV     SOUTHERN  TAGALOG 

Aurora  (21) 
Quezon  (22) 
Rizal  (23) 
Cavite  (24) 
Laguna (25) 
Batangas  (26) 
Marinduque  (27) 
Mindoro  Oriental  (28) 
Mindoro  Occidental  (29) 
Romblon  (30) 
Palawan  (31) 


VI      WESTERN  VISAYAS 

Aklan  (38) 
Capiz  (39) 
Antique  (40) 
lloilo  (41) 

Negros  Occidental  (42) 


VII    CENTRAL  VISAYAS 

Cebu  (43) 

Negros  Oriental  (44) 
Bohol  (45) 
Siquijor  (46) 


VIII   EASTERN  VISAYAS 

Northern  Samar  (47) 
Samar  (48) 
Eastern  Samar  (49) 
Leyte  (50) 
Southern  Leyte  (51) 


IX     WESTERN  MINDANAO 

Zamboanga  del  Norte  (52) 
Zamboanga  del  Sur  (53) 
Basilan  (54) 

Misamis  Occidental  (61) 
Lanao  del  Norte  (69) 


XI     SOUTHERN  MINDANAO 

Surigao  del  Sur  (64) 
Davao  Oriental  (65) 
Davao  del  Norte  (66) 
Davao  del  Sur  (67) 


CENTRAL  MINDANAO 

South  Cotabato  (68) 
North  Cotabato  (71) 
Sultan  Kudarat  (73) 


AUTONOMOUS  REGION  IN 
MUSLIM  MINDANAO  (ARMM) 

Sulu  (55) 
Tawitawi  (56) 
Lanao  del  Sur  (70) 
Maguindanao  (72) 


NATIONAL  CAPITAL  REGION  (NCR) 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


1990,  autonomy  failed  in  all  provinces  except  Ifugao.  The  reasons 
for  rejection  were  thought  to  be  fear  of  the  unknown  and  a  cam- 
paign against  autonomy  waged  by  mining  companies  that  feared 
higher  taxation.  In  1991  the  Supreme  Court  voided  the  Cordillera 
Autonomous  Region,  saying  that  Congress  never  intended  that  a 
single  province  could  constitute  an  autonomous  region. 

Politics 

In  1991  Philippine  politics  resembled  nothing  so  much  as  the 
"good  old  days"  of  the  pre-martial  law  period — wide-open,  some- 
times irresponsible,  but  undeniably  free.  Pre-martial  law  politics, 
however,  essentially  were  a  distraction  from  the  nation's  serious 
problems.  The  parties  were  completely  nonideological.  Therefore, 
politicians  and  office-holders  switched  parties  whenever  it  seemed 
advantageous  to  do  so.  Almost  all  politicians  were  wealthy,  and 
many  were  landlords  with  large  holdings.  They  blocked  moves  for 
social  reform;  indeed,  they  seemed  not  to  have  even  imagined  that 
society  required  serious  reform.  Congress  acquired  a  reputation 
for  corruption  that  made  the  few  honest  members  stand  out.  When 
Marcos  closed  down  Congress  in  1972,  hardly  anyone  was  disap- 
pointed except  the  members  themselves. 

The  February  1986  People's  Power  Revolution,  also  called  the 
EDS  A  Revolution  (see  Glossary),  had  restored  all  the  prerequisites 
of  democratic  politics:  freedom  of  speech  and  press,  civil  liberties, 
regularly  scheduled  elections  for  genuine  legislatures,  plebiscites, 
and  ways  to  ensure  honest  ballot  counting.  But  by  1991 ,  the  return 
to  irrelevant  politics  had  caused  a  sense  of  hopelessness  to  creep 
back  into  the  nation  that  five  years  before  had  been  riding  the  eu- 
phoric crest  of  a  nonviolent  democratic  revolution.  In  1986  it  seemed 
that  democracy  would  have  one  last  chance  to  solve  the  Philippines' 
deep-rooted  social  and  economic  problems.  Within  five  years,  it 
began  to  seem  to  many  observers  that  the  net  result  of  democracy 
was  to  put  the  country  back  where  it  had  been  before  Marcos:  a 
democratic  political  system  disguising  an  oligarchic  society. 

The  Inheritance  from  Marcos 

Democratic  institutions  were  introduced  to  the  Philippines  by 
the  United  States  at  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century.  The 
apparent  success  of  these  imported  practices  gave  the  Philippines 
its  reputation  as  "the  showcase  of  democracy  in  Asia."  Before  1972 
the  constitutional  separation  of  powers  was  generally  maintained. 
Political  power  was  centralized  in  Manila,  but  it  was  shared  by 
two  equally  influential  institutions,  the  presidency  and  Congress. 


212 


Government  and  Politics 


The  checks  and  balances  between  them,  coupled  with  the  open- 
ness of  bipartisan  competition  between  the  Nacionalista  and  Liberal 
parties,  precluded  the  emergence  of  one-person  or  one-party  rule. 
Power  was  transferred  peacefully  from  one  party  to  another  through 
elections.  The  mass  media,  sensational  at  times,  fiercely  criticized 
public  officials  and  checked  government  excess. 

Marcos  inflicted  immeasurable  damage  on  democratic  values. 
He  offered  the  Filipino  people  economic  progress  and  national  dig- 
nity, but  the  results  were  dictatorship,  poverty,  militarized  polit- 
ics and  a  politicized  military,  and  greatly  increased  dependence 
on  foreign  governments  and  banks.  His  New  Society  was  supposed 
to  eliminate  corruption,  but  when  Marcos  fled  the  country  in  1986, 
his  suitcases  contained,  according  to  a  United  States  customs  agent, 
jewels,  luxury  items,  and  twenty-four  gold  bricks.  Estimates  of  Mar- 
cos's  wealth  ran  from  a  low  of  US$3  billion  to  a  high  of  US$30 
billion,  and  even  after  his  death  in  1989,  no  one  knew  the  true  value 
of  his  estate,  perhaps  not  even  his  widow. 

If  Marcos  had  been  merely  corrupt,  his  legacy  would  have  been 
bad  enough,  but  he  broke  the  spell  of  democracy.  The  long  evolu- 
tion of  democratic  institutions,  unsatisfactory  though  it  may  have 
been  in  some  ways,  was  interrupted.  The  political  culture  of 
democracy  was  violated.  Ordinary  Filipinos  knew  fear  in  the  night. 
An  entire  generation  came  of  age  never  once  witnessing  a  genuine 
election  or  reading  a  free  newspaper.  Classes  that  graduated  from 
the  Philippine  Military  Academy  were  contemptuous  of  civilians 
and  anticipated  opportunities  for  influence  and  perhaps  even  wealth. 
Marcos 's  worst  nightmare  came  true  when  Corazon  Aquino  used 
the  power  of  popular  opinion  to  bring  him  down. 

Aquino  inherited  a  very  distorted  economy.  The  Philippines  owed 
about  US$28  billion  to  foreign  creditors.  Borrowed  money  had  not 
promoted  development,  and  most  of  it  had  been  wasted  on  show- 
case projects  along  Manila  Bay,  or  had  disappeared  into  the  pock- 
ets and  offshore  accounts  of  the  Marcos  and  Romualdez  families 
and  their  friends  and  partners.  Many  Filipinos  believed  that  they 
would  be  morally  justified  in  renouncing  the  foreign  debt  on 
grounds  that  the  banks  should  have  known  what  the  Marcoses  were 
doing  with  the  money.  Even  Cardinal  Jaime  Sin  declared  it  "moral- 
ly wrong"  to  pay  foreign  creditors  when  Filipino  children  were 
hungry.  Aquino,  however,  resolutely  pledged  to  pay  the  debt. 
Otherwise,  the  nation  would  be  cut  off  from  the  credit  it  needed. 
Although  the  Philippines  could  pay  the  interest  on  the  debt  every 
year,  it  could  not  pay  the  principal.  This  never-ending  debt  natur- 
ally inflamed  Filipino  nationalism.  A  Freedom  From  Debt  Coalition 


213 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

advocated  using  the  money  to  help  the  unemployed  instead  of  send- 
ing the  hard  currency  abroad. 

The  Rise  of  Corazon  Aquino 

Corazon  Cojuangco  Aquino,  universally  and  affectionately 
known  as  "Cory,"  was  a  Philippine  president  quite  unlike  those 
who  preceded  her.  Observers  have  groped  for  the  right  word  to 
characterize  the  Aquino  presidency.  She  was  first  called  a  "revolu- 
tionary," but  later  a  mere  "reformer."  When  the  old  landed  fami- 
lies recaptured  the  political  system,  she  was  called  a  "restorationist." 

She  was  born  in  1933  into  one  of  the  richest  clans  in  the  Philip- 
pines, the  powerful  Cojuangcos  of  Tarlac  Province.  Her  maiden 
name  indicates  Chinese  mestizo  ancestry;  her  Chinese  great- 
grandfather's name  could  have  been  romanized  to  Ko  Hwan-ko, 
but,  following  the  normal  practice  of  assimilationist  Catholic 
Chinese-Filipinos,  all  the  Chinese  names  were  collapsed  into  one, 
and  a  Spanish  first  name  was  taken.  Aquino  neither  sought  power 
nor  expected  it  would  come  to  her.  Her  life  was  that  of  a  privileged, 
well-educated  girl  sent  abroad  to  the  Ravenhill  Academy  in 
Philadelphia,  the  Notre  Dame  Convent  School  in  New  York,  and 
Mount  St.  Vincent  College,  also  in  New  York.  She  studied 
mathematics  and  graduated  with  a  degree  in  French  in  1953,  then 
returned  to  the  Philippines  to  study  law,  but  soon  married  the  rest- 
less, rich  scion  of  another  prominent  Tarlac  family,  Benigno  ("Ni- 
noy")  Aquino,  Jr.  Benigno  Aquino  became  a  mayor,  a  governor, 
and  a  flamboyant  senator,  and  he  probably  would  have  been  elected 
president  of  the  Philippines  in  1973  had  Marcos  not  suspended  elec- 
tions. On  the  same  night  in  1972  when  Marcos  declared  martial 
law,  he  sent  troops  to  arrest  Benigno  Aquino.  Senator  Aquino  was 
incarcerated  for  some  seven  years,  after  which  Marcos  allowed  him 
to  go  to  the  United  States.  In  August  1983,  believing  that  Marcos 
was  dying,  Aquino  ventured  back  to  Manila  and  was  gunned  down 
just  seconds  after  being  escorted  from  the  airplane  (see  From  Aqui- 
no's Assassination  to  People's  Power,  ch.  1).  Aquino's  murder  gal- 
vanized the  Filipino  people  and  was  the  beginning  of  the  end  for 
Marcos. 

The  Coalition  Comes  Undone,  1986-87 

Ferdinand  Marcos  had  perfected  the  art  of  ruling  by  dividing 
his  enemies:  scaring  some,  chasing  others  out  of  the  country,  playing 
one  clan  against  another,  and  co-opting  a  few  members  of  each 
prominent  provincial  family.  The  "oppositionists,"  as  the  controlled 
Manila  press  called  them,  were  never  united  while  Marcos  was  in 


214 


President  Corazon  Aquino,  1990 
Courtesy  Robert  L.  Worden 


Malacanang,  and  only  through  the  intervention  of  Cardinal  Jaime 
Sin  did  they  agree  on  a  unified  ticket  to  oppose  Marcos  in  the  ' '  snap 
election"  that  the  ailing  dictator  suddenly  called  for  February  1986. 
The  widow  Aquino  had  public  support  but  no  political  organiza- 
tion, whereas  the  old-line  politico  Salvador  H.  "Doy"  Laurel  had 
an  organization  but  little  popular  support.  After  difficult  negotia- 
tions, Laurel  agreed  to  run  for  vice  president  on  a  ticket  with  Aqui- 
no. Aquino  won  on  February  7,  1986,  but  the  margin  of  victory 
will  never  be  known,  for  the  election  was  marred  by  gross  fraud, 
intimidation,  ballot  box  stuffing,  and  falsified  tabulation. 

Aquino  had  to  perform  a  delicate  balancing  act  between  left  and 
right,  within  society  at  large  and  later  within  her  own  cabinet. 
Aquino  and  Laurel  triumphed  in  good  part  because  of  the  defec- 
tion of  Enrile,  who  was  then  minister  of  defense,  and  Fidel  V.  Ra- 
mos, the  acting  chief  of  staff  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines. 
Both  men  had  served  Marcos  loyally  for  many  years  but  now  found 
themselves  pushed  aside  by  General  Fabian  Ver,  Marcos 's  per- 
sonal bodyguard  and  commander  of  the  Presidential  Security  Com- 
mand. They  risked  their  lives  defying  Marcos  and  Ver  at  the  crucial 
moment.  Enrile  and  Ramos  conceived  of  the  new  government  as 
a  coalition  in  which  they  would  have  important  roles  to  play.  Laurel 
saw  it  the  same  way. 

In  one  sense,  the  Aquino  government  initially  was  a  coalition — it 
drew  support  from  all  parts  of  the  political  spectrum.  The  middle 


215 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

class  was  overwhelmingly  behind  "Cory,"  the  democratic  alter- 
native to  Marcos.  Most  leftists  saw  her  as  "subjectively"  progres- 
sive even  if  she  was  "objectively"  bourgeois.  They  hoped  she  could 
reform  Philippine  politics.  On  the  right,  only  those  actually  in  league 
with  Marcos  supported  him.  Aquino's  support  was  very  wide  and 
diverse. 

The  coalition,  however,  began  unraveling  almost  immediately. 
Enrile  thought  that  Aquino  should  declare  her  government  "revolu- 
tionary," because  that  would  mean  that  the  1986  elections  were 
illegitimate  and  that  new  presidential  elections  would  be  held  soon. 
When  Aquino  made  it  clear  that  she  intended  to  serve  out  her  en- 
tire six-year  term,  Enrile  and  Laurel  set  out  to  undermine  her.  Ra- 
mos took  a  cautiously  ambivalent  position  but  ultimately  supported 
Aquino.  Without  his  loyalty,  Aquino  would  not  have  survived  the 
many  coup  attempts  she  successfully  put  down. 

Aquino's  political  honeymoon  was  brief.  Arturo  Tolentino,  Mar- 
cos's  running  mate  in  the  February  election,  proclaimed  himself 
acting  president  on  July  6,  1986,  but  that  attempt  to  unseat  Aqui- 
no was  short-lived.  By  October  1986,  Enrile  was  refusing  to  at- 
tend cabinet  meetings  on  the  grounds  that  they  were  "a  waste  of 
the  people's  money."  Aquino  fired  him  the  next  month,  after  he 
was  implicated  in  a  coup  plan  code-named  "God  Save  the  Queen" 
(presumably  because  the  conspirators  hoped  to  keep  Aquino  on 
as  a  figurehead).  The  plotters  were  suppressed,  and  on  the  morn- 
ing of  November  23,  Aquino  met  with  her  entire  cabinet,  except 
for  Laurel,  who  was  playing  golf.  She  asked  for  the  resignations 
of  all  other  members  of  her  cabinet  and  then  jettisoned  those  leftists 
who  most  irritated  the  army  and  replaced  Enrile  with  Rafael  Ileto 
as  the  new  minister  of  national  defense.  Aquino  started  a  pattern, 
repeated  many  times  since,  of  tactically  shifting  rightward  to  head 
off  a  rightist  coup. 

Enrile  was  out  of  the  government,  but  Laurel  remained  in, 
despite  his  vocal,  public  criticism  of  Aquino.  She  relieved  him  of 
his  duties  as  minister  of  foreign  affairs  on  September  16,  1987,  but 
could  not  remove  him  from  the  vice  presidency.  A  month  later, 
Laurel  publicly  declared  his  willingness  to  lead  the  country  if  a  coup 
succeeded  in  ousting  Aquino.  The  next  year,  he  told  the  press  that 
the  presidency  "requires  a  higher  level  of  competence"  than  that 
shown  by  Aquino. 

The  disintegration  of  the  original  Aquino-Laurel-Enrile  coali- 
tion was  only  part  of  a  bigger  problem:  The  entire  cabinet,  govern- 
ment, and,  some  would  say,  even  the  entire  nation,  were  permeated 
with  factionalism.  Aquino  also  had  difficulty  dealing  with  the  mili- 
tary. The  first  serious  dispute  between  Aquino  and  the  military 


216 


Government  and  Politics 


concerned  the  wisdom  of  a  cease-fire  with  the  New  People's  Army. 
Aquino  held  high  hopes  that  the  communists  could  be  coaxed  down 
from  the  hills  and  reconciled  to  democratic  participation  if  their 
legitimate  grievances  were  addressed.  She  believed  that  Marcos 
had  driven  many  people  to  support  the  New  People's  Army. 

The  Philippine  military,  which  had  been  fighting  the  guerrillas 
for  seventeen  years,  was  hostile  to  her  policy  initiative.  When  talks 
began  in  September  1986,  military  plotters  began  work  on  the  "God 
Save  the  Queen"  uprising  that  was  aborted  two  months  later.  Aqui- 
no tried  reconciliation  with  the  Moro  National  Liberation  Front 
and  sent  her  brother-in-law  to  Saudi  Arabia,  where  he  signed  the 
Jiddah  Accord  with  the  Moro  National  Liberation  Front  on  Janu- 
ary 4,  1987.  A  coup  attempt  followed  three  weeks  later.  In  the  wake 
of  these  coup  attempts,  Aquino  reformed  her  cabinet,  but  she  also 
submitted  to  military  demands  that  she  oust  Executive  Secretary 
Joker  Arroyo,  a  political  activist  and  her  longtime  confidant.  Her 
legal  counsel,  Teodoro  Locsin,  whom  the  military  considered  a 
leftist,  and  her  finance  secretary,  Jaime  Ongpin,  also  had  to  go. 
(Ongpin  was  later  found  dead;  the  coroner's  verdict  was  suicide, 
although  he  was  left-handed  and  the  gun  was  in  his  right  hand.) 

Aquino  had  been  swept  into  office  on  a  wave  of  high  expecta- 
tions that  she  would  be  able  to  right  all  of  the  wrongs  done  to  the 
Philippines  under  Marcos.  When  she  could  not  do  this  and  when 
the  same  problems  recurred,  Filipinos  grew  disillusioned.  Many 
of  Aquino's  idealistic  followers  were  dismayed  at  the  "Mendiola 
Massacre"  in  1987  in  which  troops  fired  into  a  crowd  of  protest- 
ing farmers  right  outside  Malacafiang.  The  military  was  simply 
beyond  her  control.  The  entire  staff  of  the  Commission  on  Hu- 
man Rights  resigned  in  protest  even  though  Aquino  herself  joined 
the  protestors  the  next  day.  Those  people  who  hoped  that  Aquino 
would  liberally  use  emergency  power  to  implement  needed  social 
changes  were  further  dismayed  by  the  fate  of  her  promised  land 
reform  program.  Instead  of  taking  immediate  action,  she  waited 
until  the  new  Congress  was  seated  and  turned  the  matter  over  to 
them.  That  Congress,  like  all  previous  Philippine  legislatures,  was 
dominated  by  landowners,  and  there  was  very  little  likelihood  that 
these  people  would  dispossess  themselves. 

Aquino's  declining  political  fortunes  were  revealed  in  public  opin- 
ion polls  in  early  1991  that  showed  her  popularity  at  an  all-time 
low,  as  protesters  marched  on  Malacafiang,  accusing  her  of  betray- 
ing her  promises  to  ease  poverty,  stamp  out  corruption,  and  widen 
democracy.  Nevertheless,  Aquino's  greatest  achievement  in  the  first 
five  years  of  her  term  was  to  begin  the  healing  process. 


217 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


The  President  and  the  Coup  Plotters 

Philippine  politics  between  1986  and  1991  were  punctuated  by 
President  Aquino's  desperate  struggle  to  survive  physically  and  po- 
litically a  succession  of  coup  attempts  that  culminated  in  a  large, 
bloody,  and  well-financed  attempt  in  December  1989.  This  attempt, 
led  by  renegade  Colonel  Gregorio  Honasan,  involved  upwards  of 
3,000  troops,  including  elite  Scout  Rangers  and  marines,  in  a  coor- 
dinated series  of  attacks  on  Camp  Crame  and  Camp  Aquinaldo, 
Fort  Bonifacio,  Cavite  Naval  Base,  Villamor  Air  Base,  and  on 
Malacafiang  itself,  which  was  dive-bombed  by  vintage  T-28  air- 
craft. Although  Aquino  was  not  hurt  in  this  raid,  the  situation  ap- 
peared desperate,  for  not  only  were  military  commanders  around 
the  country  waiting  to  see  which  side  would  triumph  in  Manila, 
but  the  people  of  Manila,  who  had  poured  into  the  streets  to  pro- 
tect Aquino  in  February  1986,  stayed  home  this  time.  Furthermore, 
Aquino  found  it  necessary  to  request  United  States  air  support  to 
put  down  this  uprising. 

Politically  this  coup  was  a  disaster  for  Aquino.  Her  vice  presi- 
dent openly  allied  himself  with  the  coup  plotters  and  called  for  her 
to  resign.  Even  Aquino's  staunchest  supporters  saw  her  need  for 
United  States  air  support  as  a  devastating  sign  of  weakness.  Most 
damaging  of  all,  when  the  last  rebels  finally  surrendered,  they  did 
so  in  triumph  and  with  a  promise  from  the  government  that  they 
would  be  treated  "humanely,  justly,  and  fairly." 

A  fact-finding  commission  was  appointed  to  draw  lessons  from 
this  coup  attempt.  The  commission  bluntly  advised  Aquino  to  ex- 
ercise firmer  leadership,  replace  inefficient  officials,  and  retire  mili- 
tary officers  of  dubious  loyalty.  On  December  14,  1989,  the  Senate 
granted  Aquino  emergency  powers  for  six  months. 

One  of  the  devastating  results  of  this  insurrection  was  that  just 
when  the  economy  had  finally  seemed  to  turn  around,  investors 
were  frightened  off,  especially  since  much  of  the  combat  took  place 
in  the  business  haven  of  Makati.  Tourism,  a  major  foreign-exchange 
earner,  came  to  a  halt.  Business  leaders  estimated  that  the  mutiny 
cost  the  economy  US$1.5  billion  (see  Tourism,  ch.  3). 

Political  Parties 

Philippine  political  parties  are  essentially  nonideological  vehi- 
cles for  personal  and  factional  political  ambition.  The  party  sys- 
tem in  the  early  1990s  closely  resembled  that  of  the  pre-martial 
law  years  when  the  Nacionalista  and  Liberal  parties  alternated  in 
power.  Although  they  lacked  coherent  political  programs,  they 


218 


Government  and  Politics 


generally  championed  conservative  social  positions  and  avoided  tak- 
ing any  position  that  might  divide  the  electorate.  Each  party  tried 
to  appeal  to  all  regions,  all  ethnic  groups,  and  all  social  classes  and 
fostered  national  unity  by  never  championing  one  group  or  region. 
Neither  party  had  any  way  to  enforce  party  discipline,  so  politi- 
cians switched  capriciously  back  and  forth.  The  parties  were  es- 
sentially pyramids  of  patron-client  relationships  stretching  from  the 
remotest  villages  to  Manila.  They  existed  to  satisfy  particular  de- 
mands, not  to  promote  general  programs.  Because  nearly  all  sen- 
ators and  representatives  were  provincial  aristocrats,  the  parties 
never  tackled  the  fundamental  national  problem:  the  vastly  in- 
equitable distribution  of  land,  power,  and  wealth. 

Ferdinand  Marcos  mastered  that  party  system,  then  altered  it 
by  establishing  an  all-embracing  ruling  party  to  be  the  sole  vehicle 
for  those  who  wished  to  engage  in  political  activity.  He  called  it 
the  New  Society  Movement  (Kilusang  Bagong  Lipunan).  The  New 
Society  Movement  sought  to  extend  Marcos' s  reach  to  far  corners 
of  the  country.  Bureaucrats  at  all  levels  were  well-advised  to  join. 
The  New  Society  Movement  offered  unlimited  patronage.  The 
party  won  163  of  178  seats  in  the  National  Assembly  in  1978  and 
easily  won  the  1980  local  elections.  In  1981  Marcos  actually  had 
to  create  his  own  opposition  because  no  one  was  willing  to  run 
against  him. 

Opposition  Parties 

The  New  Society  Movement  fell  apart  when  Marcos  fled  the 
country.  A  former  National  Assembly  speaker,  Nicanor  Yniguez, 
tried  to  "reorganize"  it,  but  others  scrambled  to  start  new  parties 
with  new  names.  Bias  Ople,  Marcos's  minister  of  labor,  formed 
the  Nationalist  Party  of  the  Philippines  (Partido  Nacionalista  ng 
Pilipinas)  in  March  1986.  Enrile  sought  political  refuge  in  a  revival 
of  the  country's  oldest  party,  the  Nacionalista  Party,  first  formed 
in  1907  (see  A  Collaborative  Philippine  Leadership,  ch.  1).  Enrile 
used  the  rusty  Nacionalista  machinery  and  an  ethnic  network  of 
Ilocanos  to  campaign  for  a  no  vote  on  the  constitution  and,  when 
that  failed,  for  his  election  to  the  Senate.  Lengthy  negotiations  with 
mistrustful  political  "allies"  such  as  Ople  and  Laurel  delayed  the 
formal  reestablishment  of  the  Nacionalista  Party  until  May  1989. 
Enrile  also  experimented  with  a  short-lived  Grand  Alliance  for 
Democracy  with  Francisco  "Kit"  Tatad,  the  erstwhile  minister  of 
information  for  Marcos,  and  the  popular  movie-star  senator,  Joseph 
Estrada.  In  1991  Enrile  remained  a  very  powerful  political  figure, 
with  landholdings  all  over  the  Philippines  and  a  clandestine  net- 
work of  dissident  military  officers. 


219 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Vice  President  Laurel  had  few  supporters  in  the  military  but  long- 
term  experience  in  political  organizing.  From  his  family  base  in 
Batangas  Province,  Laurel  had  cautiously  distanced  himself  from 
Marcos  in  the  early  1980s,  then  moved  into  open  opposition  un- 
der the  banner  of  a  loose  alliance  named  the  United  Nationalist 
Democratic  Organization  (UNIDO).  Eventually,  the  UNIDO  be- 
came Laurel's  personal  party.  Aquino  used  the  party's  organiza- 
tion in  February  1986,  although  her  alliance  with  Laurel  was  never 
more  than  tactical.  UNIDO  might  have  endured  had  Aquino's  allies 
granted  Laurel  more  patronage  when  local  governments  were  re- 
organized. As  it  was,  Laurel  could  reward  his  supporters  only  with 
positions  in  the  foreign  service,  and  even  there  the  opportunities 
were  severely  limited.  The  party  soon  fell  by  the  wayside.  Laurel 
and  Enrile  formed  the  United  Nationalist  Alliance,  also  called  the 
Union  for  National  Action,  in  1988.  The  United  Nationalist  Alli- 
ance proposed  a  contradictory  assortment  of  ideas,  including  switch- 
ing from  a  presidential  to  a  parliamentary  form  of  government, 
legalizing  the  Communist  Party  of  the  Philippines,  and  extending 
the  United  States  bases  treaty.  By  1991  Laurel  had  abandoned  these 
ad  hoc  creations  and  gone  back  to  the  revived  Nacionalista  Party, 
in  a  tentative  alliance  with  Enrile. 

In  1991  a  new  opposition  party,  the  Filipino  Party  (Partido  Pilipi- 
no),  was  organized  as  a  vehicle  for  the  presidential  campaign  of 
Aquino's  estranged  cousin  Eduardo  "Danding"  Cojuangco.  De- 
spite the  political  baggage  of  a  long  association  with  Marcos,  Coju- 
angco had  the  resources  to  assemble  a  powerful  coalition  of  clans. 

The  Liberal  Party,  a  democratic-elitist  party  founded  in  1946, 
survived  fourteen  years  of  dormancy  (1972  to  1986),  largely  through 
the  staunch  integrity  of  its  central  figure,  Senate  president  Jovito 
Salonga,  a  survivor  of  the  Plaza  Miranda  grenade  attack  of  Sep- 
tember 1971.  In  1991  Salonga  also  was  interested  in  the  presiden- 
cy, despite  poor  health  and  the  fact  that  he  was  a  Protestant  in  a 
largely  Catholic  country. 

In  September  1986,  the  revolutionary  left,  stung  by  its  short- 
sighted boycott  of  the  February  election,  formed  a  legal  political 
party  to  contest  the  congressional  elections.  The  Partido  ng  Bayan 
(Party  of  the  Nation)  allied  with  other  left-leaning  groups  in  an 
Alliance  for  New  Politics  that  fielded  7  candidates  for  the  Senate 
and  103  for  the  House  of  Representatives.  However,  it  gained  ab- 
solutely nothing  from  this  exercise.  The  communists  quickly 
dropped  out  of  the  electoral  arena  and  reverted  to  guerrilla  warfare. 
As  of  1991,  no  Philippine  party  actively  engaged  in  politics  espoused 
a  radical  agenda. 


220 


Government  and  Politics 


Progovemment  Parties 

In  1978  the  imprisoned  former  senators  Benigno  Aquino  and 
Lorenzo  Tanada  organized  a  political  party  named  Lakas  ng  Bayan 
(Strength  of  the  Nation;  also  known  by  its  abbreviated  form, 
LAB  AN,  meaning  fight).  LAB  AN  won  40  percent  of  the  Manila 
vote  in  parliamentary  elections  that  year  but  was  not  given  a  sin- 
gle seat  in  Marcos 's  New  Society  Movement-dominated  parliament. 
After  Aquino  went  into  exile  in  the  Jnited  States,  his  wife's  brother, 
former  Congressman  Jose  Cojuangco,  managed  LABAN.  Co- 
juangco  forged  an  alliance  with  the  Pilipino  Democratic  Party 
(PDP),  a  regional  party  with  strength  in  the  Visayas  and  Minda- 
nao, that  had  been  organized  by  Aquilino  Pimentel,  the  mayor  of 
Cagayan  de  Oro  City.  The  unified  party  was  thereafter  known  as 
PDP— LABAN,  and  it— along  with  UNIDO— conducted  Corazon 
Aquino's  presidential  campaign  against  Marcos. 

In  its  early  years,  PDP-LABAN  espoused  a  strongly  nationalist 
position  on  economic  matters  and  United  States  base  rights,  aspiring 
to  "democratize  power  and  socialize  wealth."  Later,  after  Aqui- 
no became  president,  its  rhetorical  socialism  evaporated.  In  the 
late  1980s  and  early  1990s,  PDP-LABAN  had  the  distinct  advan- 
tage of  patronage.  Aquino  named  Pimentel  her  first  minister  of 
local  government,  then  summarily  dismissed  every  governor  and 
mayor  in  the  Philippines.  Pimentel  replaced  them  with  officers  in 
charge  known  personally  to  him,  thereby  creating  an  instant 
pyramid  of  allies  throughout  the  country.  Some,  but  not  all,  of  these 
officers  in  charge  won  election  on  their  own  in  the  January  1988 
local  elections. 

PDP-LABAN  was  not  immune  from  the  problems  that  gener- 
ally plagued  Philippine  political  parties.  What  mainly  kept  the  party 
together  was  the  need  to  keep  Aquino  in  power  for  her  full  six- 
year  term.  In  June  1988,  the  party  was  reorganized  as  the  Strug- 
gle of  Filipino  Democrats  (Laban  ng  Demokratikong  Pilipino). 
Speaker  of  the  House  Ramon  Mitra  was  its  first  president,  but  he 
resigned  the  presidency  of  the  party  in  1989  in  favor  of  Neptali 
Gonzales. 

In  1990  Aquino  announced  the  formation  of  a  movement  called 
Kabisig  (Arm-in- Arm),  conceived  as  a  nongovernmental  organi- 
zation to  revive  the  spirit  of  People's  Power  and  get  around  an  ob- 
stinate bureaucracy  and  a  conservative  Congress.  By  1991  its 
resemblance  to  a  nascent  political  party  worried  the  more  tradi- 
tional leadership,  particularly  Mitra.  Part  of  Aquino's  governing 
style  was  to  maintain  a  stance  of  being  "above  politics."  Although 
she  endorsed  political  candidates,  she  refused  to  form  a  political 


221 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

party  of  her  own,  relying  instead  on  her  personal  probity,  spiritu- 
ality, and  simple  living  to  maintain  popular  support. 

Voting  and  Elections 

Elections  in  the  Philippines  are  the  arena  in  which  the  country's 
elite  families  compete  for  political  power.  The  wealthiest  clans  con- 
test national  and  provincial  offices.  Families  of  lesser  wealth  com- 
pete for  municipal  offices.  In  the  barangays,  where  most  people  are 
equally  poor,  election  confers  social  prestige  but  no  real  power  or 
money. 

Voting  rates  have  generally  been  high  (approximately  80  to  85 
percent  in  national  elections),  despite  obstacles  such  as  difficult 
transportation,  the  need  to  write  out  the  names  of  all  candidates 
in  longhand,  and,  occasionally,  the  threat  of  violence.  Filipinos  en- 
joy and  expect  elections  so  much  that  even  Ferdinand  Marcos  dared 
not  completely  deny  them  this  outlet.  Instead,  he  changed  the  rules 
to  rig  the  elections  in  his  favor. 

Until  1972  Philippine  elections  were  comparable  to  those  in  Unit- 
ed States  cities  during  early  industrialization:  flawed,  perhaps,  by 
instances  of  vote-buying,  ballot-box  stuffing,  or  miscounts,  but 
generally  transmitting  the  will  of  the  people.  A  certain  amount  of 
election-related  violence  was  considered  normal.  Marcos  overturned 
this  system  with  innovations  such  as  asking  voters  to  indicate  by 
a  show  of  hands  if  they  wanted  him  to  remain  in  office.  In  the  snap 
election  of  1986,  Marcos  supporters  tried  every  trick  they  knew 
but  lost  anyway.  The  heroism  of  the  democratic  forces  at  that  time 
inspired  many  Filipinos. 

The  1987  constitution  establishes  a  new  system  of  elections.  The 
terms  of  representatives  are  reduced  from  four  years  to  three,  and 
the  presidential  term  is  lengthened  from  four  years  to  six.  Sena- 
tors also  serve  a  six-year  term.  The  constitution's  transitory  pro- 
visions are  scheduled  to  expire  in  1992,  after  which  there  is  to  be 
a  three-year  election  cycle.  Suffrage  is  universal  at  age  eighteen. 
The  constitution  established  a  Commission  on  Elections  that  is  em- 
powered to  supervise  every  aspect  of  campaigns  and  elections.  It 
is  composed  of  a  chairperson  and  six  commissioners,  who  cannot 
have  been  candidates  for  any  position  in  the  immediately  preced- 
ing elections.  A  majority  of  the  commissioners  must  be  lawyers, 
and  all  must  be  college-educated.  They  are  appointed  by  the  presi- 
dent with  the  consent  of  the  Commission  on  Appointments  and 
serve  a  single  seven-year  term.  The  Commission  on  Elections  en- 
forces and  administers  all  election  laws  and  regulations  and  has  ori- 
ginal jurisdiction  over  all  legal  disputes  arising  from  disputed  results. 
To  counter  the  unwholesome  influence  occasionally  exercised 


222 


Government  and  Politics 


by  soldiers  and  other  armed  groups,  the  commission  may  depute 
law  enforcement  agencies,  including  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  Philip- 
pines. In  dire  situations,  the  commission  can  take  entire  munici- 
palities and  provinces  under  its  control,  or  order  new  elections. 

The  constitution  also  empowers  the  commission  to  "accredit 
citizens'  arms  of  the  Commission  on  Elections. ' '  This  refers  to  the 
National  Movement  for  Free  Elections  (NAMFREL),  a  private 
group  established  in  the  1950s,  with  advice  and  assistance  from 
the  United  States,  to  keep  elections  honest.  NAMFREL  was  in- 
strumental in  the  election  of  President  Ramon  Magsaysay  in  1953, 
and  played  a  minor  role  in  subsequent  presidential  elections.  It 
lapsed  into  inactivity  during  the  martial  law  years,  then  played  an 
important  role  in  Aquino's  1986  victory.  NAMFREL  recruited 
public-spirited  citizens  (320,000  volunteers  in  104,000  precincts 
in  the  1987  congressional  elections)  to  watch  the  voting  and  moni- 
tor ballot-counting,  and  it  prepared  a  "quick  count,"  based  mostly 
on  urban  returns,  to  publicize  the  results  immediately.  Because 
the  Commission  on  Elections  can  take  weeks  or  even  months  to 
certify  official  returns,  the  National  Movement  for  Free  Elections 
makes  it  harder  for  unscrupulous  politicians  to  distort  the  results. 
NAMFREL  itself  has  sometimes  been  denounced  by  election  losers 
as  being  a  tool  of  United  States  intervention  and  has  not  always 
been  impartial.  In  1986  it  favored  Aquino,  and  its  chairman,  Jose 
Concepcion,  was  subsequently  named  Aquino's  minister  of  trade 
and  industry. 

The  final  decision  on  all  legislative  elections  rests  with  the  elec- 
toral tribunals  of  the  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives.  Each 
electoral  tribunal  is  composed  of  nine  members,  three  of  whom 
are  members  of  the  Supreme  Court  designated  by  the  chief  justice. 
The  remaining  six  are  members  of  the  Senate  or  the  House,  cho- 
sen on  the  basis  of  proportional  representation  from  parties  in  the 
chamber. 

The  first  congressional  elections  under  the  1987  constitution  were 
held  on  May  11,  1987.  Political  parties  had  not  really  coalesced. 
Seventy-nine  separate  parties  registered  with  the  Commission  on 
Elections,  and  voters  had  a  wide  range  of  candidates  to  choose  from: 
84  candidates  ran  for  24  Senate  seats,  and  1,899  candidates  ran 
for  200  House  seats.  The  elections  were  considered  relatively  clean, 
even  though  the  secretary  of  local  government  ordered  all  gover- 
nors and  mayors  to  campaign  for  Aquino-endorsed  candidates. 
There  were  sixty-three  election-related  killings.  Some  of  these  deaths 
were  attributable  to  small-town  family  vendettas,  whereas  others 
may  have  had  ideological  motives.  The  armed  forces  charged  that 
communists  used  strong-arm  tactics  in  areas  they  controlled,  and 


223 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

the  communists  in  turn  claimed  that  nineteen  of  their  election  work- 
ers had  been  murdered.  Election  results  showed  a  virtual  clean 
sweep  for  candidates  endorsed  by  Aquino. 

The  next  step  in  redemocratization  was  to  hold  local  elections 
for  the  first  time  since  1980.  When  Aquino  took  office,  she  dis- 
missed all  previously  elected  officials  and  replaced  them  with  peo- 
ple she  believed  to  be  loyal  to  her.  Local  elections  were  originally 
scheduled  for  August  1987,  but  because  many  May  1987  congres- 
sional results  were  disputed  and  defeated  candidates  wanted  a 
chance  to  run  for  local  positions,  the  Commission  on  Elections  post- 
poned local  elections  first  to  November  1987  and  then  to  January 
18,  1988.  More  than  150,000  candidates  ran  for  16,000  positions 
as  governor,  vice  governor,  provincial  board  member,  mayor,  vice 
mayor,  and  town  council  member,  nationwide. 

More  than  a  hundred  people  were  killed  in  election-related  vio- 
lence in  1988.  Elections  had  to  be  postponed  in  six  Muslim 
provinces,  two  Ilocano  provinces,  two  New  People's  Army- 
dominated  provinces,  and  Ifugao  because  of  unsettled  conditions. 
The  Commission  on  Elections  assumed  direct  control  of  many 
towns,  including  some  parts  of  Manila.  The  formerly  unwritten 
rule  of  Filipino  politics  that  political  killings  be  confined  to  follow- 
ers and  henchmen  and  not  to  the  candidates  themselves  now  seemed 
to  have  been  broken:  Thirty-nine  local  candidates  were  killed  in 
the  1988  campaign.  Aquino  remained  aloof  from  the  1988  local 
elections,  but  many  candidates  claimed  her  backing.  Personalities 
and  clan  rivalries  seemed  to  take  precedence  over  ideological  issues. 

The  final  step  in  redemocratization  was  the  thrice-postponed 
March  1989  election  for  barangay  officials.  Some  42,000  barangay 
captains  were  elected.  At  this  level  of  neighborhood  politics,  no 
real  money  or  power  was  involved,  the  stakes  were  small,  and  elec- 
tion violence  was  rare.  The  Commission  on  Elections  prohibited 
political  parties  from  becoming  involved. 

The  Return  of  Old-Style  Politics  in  the  Countryside 

Philippine  politics,  along  with  other  aspects  of  society,  rely  heavily 
on  kinship  and  other  personal  relationships.  To  win  a  local  elec- 
tion, one  must  assemble  a  coalition  of  families.  To  win  a  provin- 
cial election,  the  important  families  in  each  town  must  be  drawn 
into  a  wider  structure.  To  win  a  national  election,  the  most  promi- 
nent aristocratic  clans  from  each  region  must  temporarily  come 
together.  A  family's  power  is  not  necessarily  precisely  correlated 
with  wealth — numbers  of  followers  matter  more — but  the  middle 
class  and  the  poor  are  sought  mainly  for  the  votes  that  they  can 
deliver.  Rarely  will  they  be  candidates  themselves. 


224 


Political  graffiti  on  a  wall  in  residential  Manila 
Courtesy  Robert  L.  Worden 

The  suspension  of  elections  during  martial  law  seemed  at  first 
to  herald  a  radical  centralization  of  power  in  Manila,  specifically 
in  the  Marcos  and  Romualdez  clans,  but  traditional  provincial 
oligarchs  resurfaced  when  Aquino  restored  elections.  To  the  dis- 
may of  her  more  idealistic  followers,  Aquino  followed  her  brother's 
advice  and  concluded  agreements  with  many  former  Marcos  sup- 
porters who  were  probably  going  to  win  elections  anyway.  About 
70  percent  of  the  candidates  elected  to  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives in  1987  were  scions  of  political  dynasties.  They  included  five 
relatives  of  Aquino:  a  brother,  an  uncle,  a  sister-in-law,  a  brother- 
in-law,  and  a  cousin.  Another  brother-in-law  was  elected  to  the 
Senate.  The  newly  elected  Congress  passed  a  bill  prohibiting  close 
relatives  of  government  officials  from  becoming  candidates,  but 
it  did  not  take  effect  until  after  the  1988  local  elections.  Many  of 
the  same  prominent  families  who  had  dominated  Philippine  socie- 
ty from  the  Spanish  colonial  period  returned  to  power.  Common- 
ly, the  same  two  families  vie  for  control  of  provinces.  The  specific 
reason  for  social  and  political  bipolarity  is  not  known,  but  it  nour- 
ishes feuds  between  rival  clans  that  are  renewed  generation  after 
generation. 

Coercion  is  an  alternative  to  buying  votes.  Because  the  popula- 
tion of  the  Philippines  has  multiplied  by  a  factor  of  nine  in  the 


225 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

twentieth  century,  there  is  not  enough  land  to  go  around  (see  Migra- 
tion, ch.  2).  As  a  result,  tenant-landlord  relationships  have  become 
more  businesslike  and  less  personal,  and  some  old  elite  families 
now  rely  on  force  to  protect  their  interests.  Article  18  of  the  con- 
stitution directs  the  dismantling  of  all  "private  armies,"  but  it 
seemed  unlikely  that  it  could  be  enforced. 

Church-State  Relations 

During  the  Spanish  colonial  period,  the  Catholic  Church  was 
extensively  involved  in  colonial  administration,  especially  in  rural 
areas  (see  The  Friarocracy,  ch.  1).  With  the  advent  of  United  States 
control,  the  Catholic  Church  relinquished  its  great  estates.  Church 
and  state  officially  were  separated,  although  the  church,  counting 
more  than  80  percent  of  the  population  as  members,  continued  to 
have  influence  when  it  wanted  to  exert  it.  For  much  of  the  Marcos 
administration,  the  official  church,  led  by  archbishop  of  Manila, 
Cardinal  Jaime  Sin,  adopted  a  stance  of  "critical  collaboration." 
This  meant  that  although  Sin  did  not  flatly  condemn  Marcos,  he 
reserved  the  right  to  criticize.  Below  the  cardinal,  the  church  was 
split  between  conservative  and  progressive  elements,  and  some 
priests  joined  the  communist-dominated  National  Democratic  Front 
through  a  group  named  Christians  for  National  Liberation  (see 
Church  and  State,  ch.  2).  Cardinal  Sin  was  instrumental  in  the 
downfall  of  Marcos.  He  brokered  the  critical,  if  temporary,  recon- 
ciliation between  Aquino  and  Laurel  and  warned  the  Marcoses  that 
vote  fraud  was  "unforgivable."  In  radio  broadcasts,  he  urged 
Manilefios  to  come  into  the  streets  to  help  the  forces  led  by  Enrile 
and  Ramos  when  they  mutinied  in  February  1986.  The  church, 
therefore,  could  legitimately  claim  to  be  part  of  the  revolutionary 
coalition. 

Aquino  is  a  deeply  religious  woman  who  has  opened  cabinet 
meetings  with  prayers  and  sought  spiritual  guidance  in  troubled 
times.  Although  there  were  reports  that  the  Vatican  in  late  1986 
had  instructed  Cardinal  Sin  to  reduce  his  involvement  in  politics, 
Aquino  continued  to  depend  on  him.  The  Catholic  Bishops  Con- 
ference of  the  Philippines  issued  a  pastoral  letter  urging  people  to 
vote  yes  in  the  1987  constitutional  plebiscite.  In  March  1987,  Sin 
announced  that  he  was  bowing  out  of  politics,  but  two  months  later 
he  broadcast  his  support  for  ten  Aquino-backed  candidates  for  the 
Senate  and  recommended  that  voters  shun  candidates  of  the  left. 
In  1990  Sin  defined  his  attitude  toward  the  government  as  one  of 
' '  critical  solidarity . ' ' 

The  church  was  very  pleased  with  provisions  of  the  1987  consti- 
tution that  ban  abortion  and  restore  a  limited  role  for  religion  in 


226 


Government  and  Politics 


public  education.  The  constitution  is  essentially  silent  on  the  mat- 
ter of  family  planning.  The  church  used  its  very  substantial  influence 
to  hinder  government  family-planning  programs.  Despite  the  fact 
that  the  population  grew  by  100,000  people  per  month  in  the  late 
1980s,  Cardinal  Sin  believed  that  the  Marcos  government  had  gone 
too  far  in  promoting  contraception.  He  urged  Aquino  to  "repeal, 
or  at  least  revise"  government  family-planning  programs.  In  Au- 
gust 1988,  the  bishops  conference  denounced  contraception  as  "de- 
humanizing and  ethically  objectionable."  For  churchmen,  this  was 
an  issue  not  to  be  taken  lightly.  One  bishop  called  for  the  church 
to  "protect  our  people  from  the  contraceptive  onslaught"  and  the 
bishops  conference  labelled  rapid  population  growth  a  "non- 
problem."  In  1989  the  United  States  Department  of  Commerce 
projected  the  Philippine  population  at  130  million  by  the  year 
2020 — in  a  country  the  size  of  California  (see  Population  Control, 
ch.  2). 

Civil-Military  Relations 

The  Philippines  had  an  unbroken  tradition  of  civilian  control 
of  the  military  until  martial  law  was  imposed  in  1972.  Under  Ar- 
ticle 2  of  the  1987  constitution,  civilian  authority  is  again,  "at  all 
times,  supreme  over  the  military."  Many  military  leaders  found 
this  fact  difficult  to  accept.  Under  Marcos,  they  could  count  on 
authorization  to  take  a  hard  line  against  communists  and  Muslim 
separatists,  on  opportunities  to  run  civilian  businesses  and  indus- 
tries, and  on  being  consulted  on  most  matters. 

Under  Aquino,  the  officers  could  feel  a  chill  coming  from 
Malacafiang.  Aquino  retired  all  "overstaying  generals,"  signed 
cease-fires  with  the  communists  and  the  Moro  National  Libera- 
tion Front,  harbored  "leftist"  advisers  in  her  presidential  office, 
released  political  prisoners  (including  New  People's  Army  found- 
er Jose  M.  Sison),  and  only  grudgingly  improved  military  pay. 
Aquino  also  established  a  Commission  on  Human  Rights  to  in- 
vestigate and  publicize  instances  of  military  abuse  and  only  later 
broadened  the  commission's  mandate  to  include  atrocities  com- 
mitted by  the  New  People's  Army. 

Military  Factions 

In  1983,  the  year  of  crisis  resulting  from  the  Benigno  Aquino 
assassination,  members  of  the  Philippine  Military  Academy  class 
of  1971  formed  the  Reform  the  Armed  Forces  Movement  (RAM). 
Notable  among  its  leaders  was  the  chief  of  Enrile's  security  detail, 
Colonel  Gregorio  "Gringo"  Honasan.  RAM  first  demonstrated 
against  corruption  in  the  armed  forces  in  1985,  while  Marcos  was 


227 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

president.  Most  RAM  officers,  including  Honasan,  have  not  sup- 
ported a  political  idealogy.  They  viewed  themselves  as  protectors 
of  the  people  against  corrupt,  incompetent  civilians.  Others  es- 
poused an  agenda  with  a  populist,  or  even  leftist  tone.  By  1990 
RAM  was  said  to  no  longer  stand  for  Reform  the  Armed  Forces 
Movement  but  rather  for  Rebolusyonariong  Alyansang  Makabayan, 
or  Revolutionary  Nationalist  Alliance. 

The  military  in  1991  contained  many  factions  based  on  loyal- 
ties to  military  and  civilian  patrons,  military  academy  class  ties, 
linguistic  differences,  and  generational  differences.  One  faction  con- 
sisted of  those  still  loyal  to  Marcos;  others  consisted  of  those  loyal 
to  Enrile  or  to  Ramos.  Discord  existed  between  Tagalogs  and  II- 
ocanos.  Graduates  of  the  Philippine  Military  Academy  in  Baguio 
were  at  odds  with  reserve  and  noncommissioned  officers.  Within 
the  Philippine  Military  Academy  faction,  loyalties  ran  according 
to  year  of  graduation.  Another  faction,  the  Young  Officers' 
Union  (YOU),  was  made  up  of  a  younger  group  of  officers,  dis- 
tinct from  RAM.  YOU  leaders  were  well  educated;  some  were  in- 
telligence officers  who  had  penetrated  the  communist  underground 
and  might  have  gained  some  respect  for  communist  organizing  prin- 
ciples, revolutionary  puritanism,  and  dedication  to  ideology.  They 
studied  the  writings  of  the  late  Filipino  nationalist  Claro  M.  Rec- 
to, espoused  a  doctrine  they  called  Philippine  nationalism,  and  were 
reported  to  believe  that  a  social  revolution  could  be  sparked  by  a 
military  uprising.  By  1991  politicized  military  officers  began  to  focus 
less  on  Aquino  than  on  her  possible  successors.  Whatever  political 
leaders  it  supported,  the  Philippine  military  in  the  1990s  was  ex- 
pected by  some  observers  to  remain  fractured,  factionalized,  and 
frustrated,  and  civilian  control  was  by  no  means  guaranteed. 

Vigilantes 

Starting  in  1987  a  new,  unsettling  element  clouded  civil-military 
relations:  vigilante  groups  that  hunted  down  suspected  communists 
and  other  leftists.  The  first  and  most  famous  such  group  was  Alsa 
Masa  (Masses  Arise),  which  virtually  eliminated  communist  in- 
fluence from  the  Agdao  slum  area  of  Davao  City.  The  potential 
for  civilians  to  accomplish  what  the  military  could  not  aroused  offi- 
cial interest.  Soon  there  were  more  than  200  such  groups  across 
the  country,  with  names  that  hinted  at  their  violent,  cult-like  na- 
ture: Remnants  of  God;  Guerrero  of  Jesus;  Sin,  Salvation,  Life, 
and  Property;  Rock  Christ;  and  the  frightening  Tadtad  (Chop- 
Chop),  which  liked  to  pose  its  members  for  photographs  with  the 
severed  heads  of  their  victims.  Vigilantes  often  carried  magical 


228 


Government  and  Politics 


amulets  to  ward  off  bullets,  and  their  rituals  were  sometimes  per- 
formed to  loud  rock  music. 

Domestic  human  rights  groups,  such  as  Task  Force  Detainees, 
and  international  monitors,  such  as  Amnesty  International,  pub- 
licized incidents  of  torture.  Amnesty  International  asserted  that  tor- 
ture of  communist  rebels  and  sympathizers  had  become  a  common 
practice.  One  paramilitary  group  in  1988  responded  to  such  criti- 
cism by  shooting  the  Filipino  regional  chairman  of  Amnesty  In- 
ternational. Six  human  rights  lawyers  were  killed  in  the  first  three 
years  of  the  Aquino  government.  More  than  200  critics  of  the 
government  were  victims  of  extrajudicial  executions.  Many 
vigilantes  carried  pistols;  others  were  skilled  with  long,  heavy  knives 
called  bolos. 

Despite  many  documented  abuses,  United  States  and  Philippine 
government  officials  have  spoken  in  support  of  some  vigilante 
groups.  Aquino  cited  Alsa  Masa's  success  in  Davao  as  a  legitimate 
exercise  of  People's  Power.  Her  secretary  of  local  government, 
Jaime  Ferrer,  ordered  all  local  officials  to  set  up  civilian  volunteer 
organizations  or  face  dismissal.  Ferrer  was  gunned  down  on  Au- 
gust 2,  1987,  for  this  and  other  anticommunist  activities.  The 
government  made  a  distinction  between  ad  hoc  vigilante  groups 
and  the  civilian  volunteer  organizations.  The  latter,  which  includ- 
ed Nation  Watch  (Bantay  Bayan),  were  to  conform  to  the  follow- 
ing guidelines  set  forth  on  October  30,  1987,  by  the  Department 
of  National  Defense:  membership  in  the  organizations  was  to  be 
voluntary,  members  were  to  be  screened  by  the  police,  the  organi- 
zations were  to  be  defensive,  and  they  were  to  eschew  identifica- 
tion with  individual  landowners  or  politicians.  Ramos  fully 
supported  the  civilian  volunteer  organizations.  He  described  their 
relationship  to  the  uniformed  military  as  "synergistic"  and  in  1989 
grouped  all  20,000  civilian  volunteer  organizations  together  un- 
der an  umbrella  organization  called  the  National  Alliance  for 
Democracy.  In  reality,  the  lines  between  official  and  unofficial 
vigilante  groups  were  often  blurred.  Large  businesses  have  donat- 
ed money  to  the  National  Alliance  for  Democracy  and  used  its  mem- 
bers as  strikebreakers  to  counter  leftist  unions. 

The  Media 

The  constitution  guarantees  freedom  of  the  press  and  also  pro- 
vides free  access  to  records,  documents,  and  papers  pertaining  to 
official  acts.  Government  officials,  however,  tended  to  be  leery  of 
reporters,  who  sometimes  ran  stories  gathered  from  a  single  source 
or  based  on  hearsay.  Libel  suits  were  frequent  in  the  1980s. 


229 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Traditionally,  major  newspapers  published  in  Manila  have  been 
owned  by  elite  families.  Prior  to  1972,  Philippine  newspapers  were 
freewheeling,  often  publishing  unsubstantiated  stories,  but  willing 
to  expose  wrongdoing  in  high  places.  When  Marcos  declared  martial 
law  in  1972,  he  confiscated  the  assets  of  newspapers  owned  by  fam- 
ilies not  part  of  his  coalition.  From  1972  to  1986,  although 
newspapers  were  not  officially  government-owned  or  government- 
supported,  they  were  controlled  by  Marcos 's  relatives,  friends,  and 
cronies.  After  the  assassination  of  Aquino  in  August  1983, 
newspapers  gradually  became  more  politically  independent.  When 
Marcos  fled  in  1986,  the  Commission  on  Good  Government  con- 
fiscated the  assets  of  crony-owned  newspapers,  and  the  exuberant 
Philippine  press  revived  quickly.  In  many  cases  newspapers  were 
operated  by  the  families  that  had  controlled  them  prior  to  martial 
law.  In  1991  there  were  approximately  thirty  daily  newspapers  in 
the  Philippines.  Twelve  mainly  English-language  broadsheets 
provided  serious  news.  Fourteen  tabloids,  mostly  Tagalog  and 
Cebuano,  offered  sensationalism.  Four  newspapers  were  printed 
in  Chinese.  Only  one  newspaper,  the  Manila  Bulletin,  had  consis- 
tently shown  a  profit.  Another,  the  Inquirer,  began  to  show  a  profit 
in  1990.  Most  other  newspapers  were  losing  concerns  used  by  the 
businesspeople  who  owned  them  to  influence  government  policy 
and  officials. 

Television  stations  in  Manila  were  very  profitable  to  the  wealthy 
investors  who  owned  them.  They  also  emerged  as  a  significant  po- 
litical factor,  and  coup  attempts  often  featured  assaults  on  televi- 
sion stations.  There  were  very  few  television  stations  outside  Manila. 
Radio,  however,  reached  people  in  remote  areas,  even  villages 
without  electricity.  Radio  stations  in  the  provinces  tended  to  be 
owned  by  wealthy  local  families  involved  in  politics. 

Unsolved  Political  Problems 

In  1991,  after  five  years  of  democracy,  many  systemic  political 
problems  remained.  These  included  the  twin  insurgencies,  the  sput- 
tering economy,  the  skewed  distribution  of  wealth  and  land,  and 
widespread  human  rights  abuses. 

As  of  1991,  the  New  People's  Army  had  been  in  the  field  for 
twenty-two  years  and  was  further  from  being  able  to  seize  power 
than  it  had  been  a  decade  before.  Many  trends  were  unfavorable. 
More  than  a  hundred  communist  leaders  had  been  captured,  armed 
troop  strength  was  down,  weapons  were  in  short  supply,  and  morale 
was  low.  Still,  the  government  could  not  eliminate  the  New  Peo- 
ple's Army  (see  The  Counterinsurgency  Campaign,  ch.  5).  The 
stalemate  made  the  government  seem  ineffective.  Despite  the  decline 


230 


Government  and  Politics 


in  the  late  1980s  in  the  fortunes  of  the  international  communist 
movement  and  the  Communist  Party  of  the  Philippines,  the  com- 
munists, as  the  only  Philippine  political  party  addressing  the 
problems  of  the  very  poor,  could  not  be  discounted. 

The  Moro  National  Liberation  Front  and  other  rebellious  Mus- 
lim armies  on  Mindanao  remained  in  a  state  of  discontent  in  the 
early  1990s.  As  had  been  the  case  under  four  regimes  (Spanish, 
American,  Japanese,  and  Filipino),  there  were  scant  prospects  that 
the  Muslims  could  be  fully  integrated  into  Philippine  society.  They 
were  unlikely  to  be  satisfied  with  the  limited  autonomy  over  a  limit- 
ed region  embodied  in  the  Autonomous  Region  in  Muslim  Min- 
danao. Neither  the  government  nor  the  Moro  National  Liberation 
Front  could  win  a  final  victory.  Consequently,  the  problem  was 
likely  to  continue  to  fester. 

The  Philippine  economy  has  exemplified  the  "revolution  of  ris- 
ing expectations."  In  the  early  1990s,  Manilenos  watched  Ameri- 
can movies,  and  provincianos  watched  films  made  in  Manila.  Even 
rural  villagers  dreamed  of  cars,  cities,  excitement,  and  an  end  to 
the  grinding  poverty  that  condemned  them  to  hunger  and  their 
children  to  malnutrition.  Filipinos  had  high  aspirations,  as  shown 
by  the  sacrifices  they  made  to  send  their  children  to  college,  but 
most  were  doomed  to  bitter  disappointment.  The  Philippine  econ- 
omy, strapped  with  a  US$28  billion  debt  inherited  from  the  Mar- 
cos administration,  offered  only  limited  opportunities  (see  External 
Debt,  ch.  3). 

One  of  the  greatest  disappointments  of  the  Aquino  years  was 
the  lack  of  progress  in  the  agrarian  reform  program.  Aquino  could 
have  used  her  political  honeymoon  and  her  inherited  dictatorial 
powers  to  divest  the  old  aristocrats  of  their  estates  and  pass  out 
land  to  the  farmers  who  actually  tilled  it,  but  she  waited  until  the 
new  Congress  was  elected  and  gave  the  job  to  them.  About  90  per- 
cent of  Congress  members  were  landowners.  The  version  of  the 
Comprehensive  Agrarian  Reform  Program  passed  by  the  Congress 
was  signed  as  the  Comprehensive  Agrarian  Reform  Law  by  Presi- 
dent Aquino  on  June  10,  1988.  It  included  many  loopholes  deliber- 
ately added  by  members  of  Congress  to  enable  landowners 
(including  themselves)  to  evade  the  intent  of  the  law.  A  bloc  of  land- 
owning legislators  led  by  Aquino's  brother,  Jose  Cojuangco,  resisted 
efforts  to  pass  more  effective  agrarian  reform  measures. 

The  Commission  on  Human  Rights,  established  under  the  1987 
constitution,  had  not  been  effective,  at  least  in  its  first  four  years. 
The  constitution  grants  the  commission  broad  powers  to  monitor 
the  government's  compliance  with  international  treaty  obligations 
on  human  rights.  The  commission,  however,  claiming  that  it  could 


231 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


not  investigate  abuses  that  occur  "in  an  environment  of  war,"  as 
of  the  end  of  1989  had  resolved  only  about  10  percent  of  the  cases 
brought  before  it  and  had  reverted  to  investigating  ordinary  civil 
police  matters.  Even  notorious  cases,  such  as  the  1987  Lupao  Mas- 
sacre, in  which  seventeen  villagers,  including  six  children  and  two 
octogenarians,  were  lined  up  and  shot  after  an  engagement  between 
the  army  and  guerrillas,  did  not  result  in  any  military  or  civilian 
convictions.  In  1990  the  Supreme  Court  decided  that  warrantless 
arrests  of  suspected  subversives  were  constitutional. 

Foreign  Affairs 

Philippine  foreign  policy  in  the  early  1990s  was  broadly 
prodemocratic  and  pro- Western  in  orientation.  Philippine  inter- 
national prestige  was  at  an  all-time  high  when  Marcos  was  over- 
thrown. During  the  Aquino  administration,  the  Philippines  pursued 
active,  nationalist  policies  aimed  at  promoting  "genuine  indepen- 
dence" and  economic  development.  As  a  charter  member  of  the 
United  Nations,  the  Philippines  participated  in  all  its  functional 
groups,  such  as  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization;  the  World 
Health  Organization;  the  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific 
and  Cultural  Organization;  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Com- 
mission for  Asia  and  the  Pacific.  In  addition,  the  Philippines  has 
been  a  member  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN),  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (see  Glossary),  the 
World  Bank  (see  Glossary),  and  the  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs 
and  Trade.  The  Philippines  was  a  founding  member  of  the  Asian 
Development  Bank,  which  is  headquartered  in  Manila. 

Article  2  of  the  constitution  states  that  "the  State  shall  pursue 
an  independent  foreign  policy."  For  historical,  economic,  cultur- 
al, and  strategic  reasons,  the  Philippines  has  been  tied  most  close- 
ly to  the  United  States.  Economic  necessity  dictated  maintaining 
a  smooth  working  relationship  with  Japan.  Filipinos  wanted  a  for- 
eign policy  oriented  more  toward  their  Southeast  Asian  neighbors, 
but  for  most  purposes  implementing  such  a  policy  was  not  high 
on  their  agenda.  The  proximity  and  large  population  of  China, 
plus  the  presence  of  Chinese  in  the  Philippines,  required  amicable 
relations  with  Beijing.  Because  of  the  Muslim  separatist  movement, 
and  also  for  economic  reasons,  relations  with  Middle  Eastern  coun- 
tries became  more  important  in  the  1970s  and  1980s. 

Filipino  Nationalism 

Filipino  nationalism,  which  is  an  important  element  of  foreign 
policy,  showed  every  sign  of  intensifying  in  the  early  1990s.  Diverse 
elements  in  Philippine  society  have  been  united  in  opposition  to 


232 


Government  and  Politics 


their  common  history  of  foreign  subjugation,  and  this  opposition 
often  carried  an  anti- American  undertone. 

Leftists  have  long  held  that  Philippine  history  is  a  story  of  failed 
or  betrayed  revolutions,  with  native  compradors  selling  out  to  for- 
eign invaders.  In  the  post-Marcos  years,  this  thesis  received  wide 
acceptance  across  the  political  spectrum.  The  middle  class  was 
deeply  disillusioned  because  five  successive  United  States  adminis- 
trations had  acquiesced  to  Marcos 's  dictatorship,  and  Filipino  con- 
servatives nursed  grievances  long  held  by  the  left. 

Relations  with  the  United  States 

Precisely  because  the  "special  relationship"  between  the  Unit- 
ed States  and  the  Philippines  has  been  lengthy  and  intimate,  it  some- 
times has  resembled  a  family  feud.  Aquino  enjoyed  great  prestige 
and  popularity  in  the  United  States  and  was  named  Time  maga- 
zine's "Woman  of  the  Year"  for  1986.  Aquino  had  spent  much 
of  her  early  life  in  the  United  States  and  returned  in  September 
1986  for  a  triumphant  tour  of  Washington,  New  York,  Boston, 
and  San  Francisco,  culminating  in  an  address  to  an  emotion-filled 
joint  session  of  the  United  States  Congress  and  a  congressional 
pledge  of  strong  support  for  her  government.  Soon  after,  however, 
Philippine  and  United  States  government  leaders  faced  substan- 
tial differences  on  economic  and  military  issues. 

United  States  officials  frequently  expressed  concern  that  Aquino 
was  not  reforming  her  government  quickly  enough  to  preempt  the 
New  People's  Army's  appeal.  And,  although  United  States  offi- 
cials repeatedly  warned  coup  plotters  that  the  United  States  would 
cut  military  aid  if  they  overthrew  Aquino,  many  Filipinos  worried 
that  what  they  perceived  as  the  United  States  government's  ob- 
session with  national  security  might  tempt  the  United  States  to  sup- 
port a  military  coup.  To  allay  these  fears,  the  United  States 
dispatched  two  fighter  planes  to  protect  Aquino  during  the  Decem- 
ber 1989  coup  attempt.  Nevertheless,  recriminations  resumed  with- 
in months.  Irritated  by  US$96  million  in  aid  cuts,  Aquino  refused 
to  meet  Secretary  of  Defense  Richard  Cheney  when  he  visited  Ma- 
nila in  February  1990. 

In  the  late  1980s,  Philippine-United  States  relations  were  be- 
deviled by  a  new  problem:  heightened  concern  for  the  safety  of 
United  States  military  and  civilian  personnel  in  the  Philippines. 
Two  United  States  airmen  were  shot  and  killed  in  Angeles  City 
in  1987.  In  1989  Colonel  James  N.  Rowe,  who  was  serving  with 
the  United  States  Joint  Military  Advisory  Group,  was  assassinated 
near  the  United  States  military  compound  in  Quezon  City.  (In  Feb- 
ruary 1991,  two  communists  were  sentenced  to  life  imprisonment 


233 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


for  the  murder  of  Rowe.)  At  least  ten  other  United  States  citizens 
were  killed  by  communists  in  the  Philippines  between  1986  and 
1991.  United  States  Peace  Corps  volunteers  were  withdrawn  in 
1990,  when  intelligence  sources  claimed  to  have  uncovered  plans 
for  mass  abductions.  One  volunteer  was  said  to  have  been  kid- 
napped by  the  New  People's  Army,  but  he  emerged  unharmed. 
Finally,  in  1990  the  United  States  government  authorized  hazardous 
duty  pay  for  diplomats,  troops,  and  other  federal  employees  in  the 
Philippines. 

United  States  access  to  air  and  naval  bases  in  the  Philippines 
dominated  Philippine-United  States  relations  in  1991,  with  emo- 
tional issues  of  Philippine  nationalism  often  weighing  more  heavily 
than  economic  or  strategic  arguments.  The  Military  Bases  Agree- 
ment of  1947,  as  amended  in  1979  and  updated  in  1983  and  1988, 
was  set  to  expire  in  September  1991  (see  Foreign  Military  Rela- 
tions, ch.  5).  Clark  Air  Base,  located  north  of  Manila  in  the  plain 
of  Central  Luzon,  was  a  logistical  hub  for  the  United  States  Thir- 
teenth Air  Force,  and  Subic  Bay  Naval  Base  was  an  extremely 
valuable  repair  and  resupply  facility  for  the  United  States  Seventh 
Fleet.  Approximately  15,000  United  States  military  personnel  (ex- 
clusive of  sailors  temporarily  ashore  at  Subic),  1,000  defense 
civilians,  and  24,000  military  dependents  were  assigned  to  the  bases. 
The  United  States  maintained  that  both  bases  were  vital  for  power 
projection  in  the  western  Pacific,  Indian  Ocean,  and  Middle  Eastern 
theaters  and  wanted  indefinite  access  to  both  facilities,  along  with 
the  Crow  Valley  gunnery  range  north  of  Subic  Bay  and  some 
smaller  communications  installations. 

Extension  of  United  States  base  rights  became  a  pivotal  issue 
in  Manila  politics.  The  need  for  some  sort  of  military  alliance  with 
the  United  States  was  rarely  questioned,  but  the  physical  presence 
of  the  bases  has  irritated  nationalists  beyond  endurance.  The  so- 
cially deformed  communities  outside  their  gates  were  seen  as  a  na- 
tional disgrace.  Angeles  City  (near  Clark)  and  Olongapo  City  (near 
Subic)  had  innumerable  bars  and  thousands  of  prostitutes,  which 
caused  Filipinos  to  be  concerned  about  acquired  immune  deficiency 
syndrome  (AIDS;  see  Health  and  Living  Standards,  ch.  2).  There 
were  numerous  criminal  gangs  and  smugglers,  and  criminal  juris- 
diction was  a  perennial  problem. 

The  nuclear  issue  complicated  matters.  Article  2  of  the  consti- 
tution says  that  the  Philippines,  "consistent  with  national  interest, 
adopts  and  pursues  a  policy  of  freedom  from  nuclear  weapons  in 
its  territory. ' '  Interpreted  strictiy,  this  article  challenged  the  United 
States  policy  of  never  confirming  or  denying  the  presence  of  nuclear 


234 


Government  and  Politics 


weapons  at  any  specific  location.  Aquino  finessed  the  issue,  ap- 
parently determining  that  it  was  in  the  national  interest  not  to  do 
anything  to  make  the  United  States  leave  the  bases.  But  the  Philip- 
pine Senate  in  June  1988  passed  by  a  vote  of  nineteen  to  three  a 
bill  that  would  have  banned  from  the  Philippines  the  "develop- 
ment, manufacture,  acquisition,  testing,  use,  introduction,  instal- 
lation, or  storage"  of  nuclear  weapons.  The  bill  was  defeated  in 
the  House,  but  its  margin  of  passage  in  the  Senate  indicated  poten- 
tial difficulty  in  obtaining  the  votes  of  the  two-thirds  of  the  Senate 
required  to  ratify  any  future  base  agreement. 

Despite  negative  developments  in  Philippine-United  States  re- 
lations, congruent  interests  in  the  early  1990s  bound  the  two  coun- 
tries. United  States  foreign  aid  to  the  Philippines  in  1990  reached 
nearly  US$500  million;  United  States  private  investment  stood  at 
more  than  US$1  billion;  and  the  United  States  and  Japan  were 
key  donors  to  the  Multilateral  Aid  Initiative,  also  known  as  the 
Philippine  Assistance  Plan,  which  offered  some  debt  relief  and  new 
credit  in  return  for  desired  structural  reforms  (see  Development 
Assistance,  ch.  3).  Political  activity  in  Filipino- American  communi- 
ties in  the  United  States  added  another  dimension  to  Philippine- 
United  States  relations.  Early  maneuvering  for  the  1992  Philippine 
presidential  election  was  as  feverish  among  these  communities  on 
the  United  States  west  coast  as  it  was  in  Manila. 

Relations  with  Asian  Neighbors 

For  decades  the  Philippines  was  an  active  proponent  of  region- 
alism. In  1954  it  joined  Australia,  Britain,  France,  New  Zealand, 
Pakistan,  Thailand,  and  the  United  States  in  the  Southeast  Asia 
Treaty  Organization  against  the  perceived  threat  from  the  Chinese 
and  Indochinese  communist  regimes.  This  alliance  was  phased  out 
in  1977. 

Manila's  quest  for  regional  cooperation  received  a  significant 
boost  in  the  1965-66  period,  when  bilateral  problems  between  In- 
donesia and  Malaysia  that  had  been  known  as  the  confrontation — 
until  then  the  main  obstacle  to  regionalism  in  Southeast  Asia — 
gave  way  to  neighborliness.  In  August  1967,  the  Association  of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations  was  formed  by  Indonesia,  Malaysia,  the 
Philippines,  Singapore,  and  Thailand  to  pursue  economic,  social, 
cultural,  and  technical  cooperation. 

The  Philippines  was  also  party  to  a  multilateral  dispute  over 
ownership  of  the  Kalayaan  Islands,  as  Filipinos  call  some  of  the 
Spratlys,  a  scattered  group  of  atolls  west  of  the  Philippine  island 
of  Palawan  and  east  of  Vietnam,  also  claimed  in  toto  or  partially 
by  China,  Malaysia,  Taiwan,  and  Vietnam  (see  External  Defense, 


235 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

ch.  5).  Tomas  Clomas,  a  Manila  lawyer,  visited  the  islands  in  1956, 
claimed  them  for  himself,  named  them  Kalayaan  (Freedomland), 
then  asked  the  Philippine  government  to  make  them  a  protectorate. 
Philippine  troops  were  sent  to  the  Kalayaans  in  1968.  All  parties 
to  the  dispute  were  interested  in  possible  offshore  oil  around  the 
islands.  The  law  of  the  sea  grants  to  any  country  that  receives  in- 
ternational recognition  of  a  claim  to  even  a  rock  sticking  out  of 
the  water  exclusive  economic  rights  to  all  resources,  including  oil, 
within  a  200-nautical-mile  radius  of  that  point.  Manila  regularly 
tried  to  extract  from  the  United  States  a  declaration  that  it  would 
defend  the  Philippines'  claim  to  the  Kalayaans  as  part  of  the  Mutual 
Defense  Treaty  between  the  Republic  of  the  Philippines  and  the 
United  States  of  America,  but  the  United  States  just  as  regularly 
refused  so  to  interpret  that  treaty. 

Aquino  broke  the  tradition  that  a  Philippine  president's  first  over- 
seas trip  was  to  Washington.  She  visited  Jakarta  and  Singapore 
in  August  1986.  Indonesian  president  Soeharto  promised  not  to 
aid  Muslim  separatists  in  Mindanao  but  cautioned  Aquino  not  to 
attempt  reconciliation  with  communist  insurgents.  Singapore's 
Prime  Minister  Lee  Kuan  Yew  echoed  Soeharto 's  warning.  Both 
leaders  encouraged  the  Philippines  to  find  a  way  to  extend  United 
States  base  rights.  Although  the  governments  espoused  differing 
world  views,  the  Philippines  has  had  few  disputes  with  Indonesia 
or  Singapore,  and  relations  remained  neighborly  in  the  early  1990s. 
The  Philippines  enjoyed  a  cooperative  relationship  with  Thailand. 
The  two  countries  in  1991  had  no  disputes  and  many  common  in- 
terests, including  a  history  of  security  cooperation  with  the  Unit- 
ed States. 

Malaysia 

Philippine  relations  with  Malaysia  have  been  bedeviled  by  a  lin- 
gering dispute  over  the  status  of  Sabah,  the  northeast  corner  of 
Borneo.  The  Philippines  based  its  case  on  a  claim  to  territories  that 
were  part  of  the  former  Sultanate  of  Sulu,  a  nineteenth-century 
entity  whose  territory  straddled  the  present  maritime  boundary  be- 
tween Malaysia  and  the  Philippines.  In  1991  one  descendent  of 
the  sultan,  a  Filipino  citizen,  still  received  a  stipend  stemming  from 
cession  of  the  sultanate  to  a  British  company.  Philippine  presidents 
have  revived  this  claim  occasionally.  It  was  revealed  in  1968  that 
Marcos  was  training  a  team  of  saboteurs  on  Corregidor  for  infiltra- 
tion into  Sabah.  Marcos  later  decided  to  drop  the  claim,  but  the 
aggrieved  Malaysians  insisted  on  such  an  explicit,  humiliating  pub- 
lic renunciation  that  no  Philippine  president  could  meet  their  con- 
ditions. The  Philippine  constitution,  by  not  mentioning  Sabah, 


236 


Government  and  Politics 


seems  to  have  dropped  the  claim.  Aquino  rushed  a  bill  to  Con- 
gress in  November  1987  to  renounce  the  claim  once  and  for  all, 
hoping  to  get  the  issue  out  of  the  way  before  Malaysia's  Prime 
Minister  Mahathir  bin  Mohamad  arrived  for  the  ASEAN  summit 
in  December,  but  Congress  did  not  act. 

Vietnam 

There  was  little  diplomatic  or  cultural  intercourse  between  the 
Philippines  and  Vietnam  until  the  1960s.  The  Philippines  contribut- 
ed a  small  civic  action  unit  to  the  United  States  effort  during  the 
Vietnam  War  but  refused  to  allow  the  United  States  to  mount  B-52 
bombing  runs  from  Clark  Air  Base.  (The  aircraft  flew  from  Guam 
and  were  refueled  from  Clark.)  Beginning  in  1975,  tens  of  thou- 
sands of  Vietnamese  and  Cambodian  refugees  entered  the  model 
refugee  camp  set  up  by  the  United  Nations  at  Morong  on  the  Ba- 
taan  Peninsula.  A  clean,  well-run  place,  it  provided  Vietnamese 
and  Cambodians  bound  for  the  United  States  with  training  in  En- 
glish, American  history,  and  vocational  skills.  The  Philippines 
joined  other  ASEAN  states  in  opposing  Vietnam's  occupation  of 
Cambodia,  even  indicating  a  willingness  to  support  the  Khmer 
Rouge,  if  necessary,  to  rid  Cambodia  of  Vietnamese  forces. 

Japan 

Philippine-Japanese  relations  were  smooth  and  successful  in  the 
early  1990s,  despite  bitter  memories  of  the  cruelty  of  the  Japanese 
during  their  occupation  of  the  Philippines  in  World  War  II.  In 
mid- 1986  the  Philippines,  concerned  about  Japan's  possible 
remilitarization,  joined  with  other  Asian  nations  to  protest  the  adop- 
tion of  revisionist  history  textbooks  by  the  Japanese  education  minis- 
try. For  the  majority  of  Filipinos,  however,  World  War  II  memories 
have  faded  or  are  nonexistent.  Japan  was  a  major  source  of  de- 
velopment funds,  trade,  investment,  and  tourism  in  the  1980s,  and 
there  have  been  few  foreign  policy  disputes  between  the  two  nations. 

Aquino  visited  Japan  in  November  1986  and  met  with  Emperor 
Hirohito,  who  offered  his  apologies  for  the  wrongs  committed  by 
Japan  during  World  War  II.  New  aid  agreements  also  were  con- 
cluded during  this  visit.  Aquino  returned  to  Japan  in  1989  for  Hiro- 
hito's  funeral  and  in  1990  for  the  enthronement  of  Emperor  Akihito. 

China 

Philippine  relations  with  China  and  Taiwan  were  cautious  in 
the  1990s.  Manila's  relations  with  Beijing  had  been  hostile  in  the 
1950s  and  1960s.  The  unspoken  threat  of  Chinese  aid  to  the  New 
People's  Army  was  ever  present  but  never  materialized.  Since  the 


237 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

opening  of  diplomatic  relations  between  Manila  and  Beijing  in  1973, 
the  relationship  has  been  correct  but  not  warm.  By  contrast,  the 
Filipino-Chinese  business  community  has  had  many  connections 
with  relatives  and  partners  in  Taiwan. 

In  1988  Aquino  visited  China,  met  with  elder  statesman  Deng 
Xiaoping,  and  made  a  ceremonial  pilgrimage  to  her  ancestral  home 
and  temple  in  Fujian  Province.  The  closer  relationship  fostered  by 
that  trip  later  dissipated  because  of  Beijing's  sensitivity  to  what  was 
perceived  as  a  Philippine  bias  in  favor  of  Taiwan.  A  Philippine 
government  spokesperson  had  inadvertently  referred  to  a  visiting 
delegation  from  Taiwan  as  representatives  of  "the  Republic  of  Chi- 
na." The  disclosure  of  a  secret  visit  to  Taiwan,  made  by  the  Philip- 
pine secretary  of  foreign  affairs,  Raul  Manglapus,  in  October  1989, 
upset  Beijing  even  more.  In  1990  Aquino  reaffirmed  the  Philip- 
pines' one-China  policy,  but  she  reserved  the  right  to  develop  trade 
and  economic  ties  with  Taiwan.  China,  for  its  part,  has  sought 
with  limited  success  to  conduct  an  "oil  diplomacy"  with  the  Philip- 
pines, a  country  greatly  dependent  on  imported  oil.  In  December 
1990,  Aquino  welcomed  the  Chinese  premier,  Li  Peng,  to  Manila 
after  having  earlier  suspended  official  contacts  in  the  wake  of  the 
June  1989  violence  around  Beijing's  Tiananmen  Square. 

Relations  with  the  Soviet  Union 

The  Philippine  government  was  always  deeply  suspicious  of  the 
Soviet  Union  because  of  Moscow's  ideological  support  for  com- 
munist insurgents.  Marcos  sometimes  dispatched  his  wife  to 
Moscow,  but  only  for  the  purpose  of  reminding  Washington  that 
there  were  alternatives  to  exclusive  reliance  on  the  West  for  aid. 
Soviet  Communist  Party  general  secretary  Leonid  Brezhnev 
reciprocated  by  voicing  support  of  Manila  in  opposition  to  the  Com- 
munist Party  of  the  Philippines  and  the  New  People's  Army.  The 
government  of  Mikhail  Gorbachev  was  embarrassed  by  its  own 
diplomatic  clumsiness  in  dispatching  the  sole  foreign  ambassador 
to  attend  Marcos 's  pitiful  final  inauguration  on  February  25,  1986, 
but  it  later  opened  cautious  diplomatic  dialogue  with  the  Aquino 
government  and  promised  to  continue  to  refuse  support  to  the  Com- 
munist Party  of  the  Philippines  and  its  New  People's  Army.  In 
1988  Moscow  played  on  the  Philippine-United  States  bases  con- 
troversy by  offering  to  pull  out  from  Cam  Ranh  Bay  in  Vietnam 
in  return  for  United  States  withdrawal  from  Clark  and  Subic  bases, 
an  initiative  that  withered  on  the  vine.  In  1991  Moscow  hoped  to 
acquire  access  to  Philippine  ports  and  dockyards  for  its  fishing  fleet 
as  a  result  of  warmer  relations  with  Manila. 


238 


Government  and  Politics 


Relations  with  the  Middle  East 

There  are  three  dimensions  to  Philippine  relations  with  Middle 
Eastern  countries:  oil  dependence,  Muslim  separatism,  and  labor 
conditions  for  Filipino  contract  workers  in  Saudi  Arabia  and  the 
Persian  Gulf  states.  The  Philippines  required  reasonably  priced 
oil,  and  fluctuations  in  world  oil  prices  caused  serious  problems 
for  the  Philippines.  Among  the  problems  were  politically  incendi- 
ary strikes  by  the  drivers  of  jeepneys,  jeeps  converted  to  carry  pas- 
sengers, which  were  a  vital  form  of  public  transport  in  Manila. 
For  this  reason,  the  Philippine  government  was  very  conscious  of 
the  need  to  maintain  amicable  relations  with  Middle  Eastern  oil 
producers  and  of  the  effect  that  its  treatment  of  the  Muslim  minority 
could  have  on  those  relations.  Furthermore,  although  Moro  Na- 
tional Liberation  Front  leader  Nur  Misuari  lived  and  worked  in 
Libya  and  Saudi  Arabia,  Arab  leaders  were  reticent  in  their  sup- 
port for  Misuari.  In  addition,  as  of  January  1991,  there  were  an 
estimated  495,300  Filipinos  working  in  the  Middle  East,  includ- 
ing 390,000  in  Saudi  Arabia,  2,000  in  Kuwait,  and  50  in  Iraq. 
Those  workers  were  a  major  source  of  Philippine  hard  currency 
earnings,  but  their  presence  also  made  the  Philippines  vulnerable 
to  volatile  changes  in  Middle  Eastern  politics. 

As  her  administration  entered  its  final  year,  Aquino  could  look 
with  some  satisfaction  on  her  great  achievements  of  restoring 
democracy  and  returning  the  Philippines  to  normalcy.  The  politi- 
cal system  appeared  to  be  stabilizing,  as  citizens  and  soldiers  im- 
patient for  change  pinned  their  hopes  on  national  and  local  elections 
scheduled  for  1992.  The  great  unanswered  question  was  whether 
normalcy  was  enough  for  a  country  with  an  underperforming  econ- 
omy, a  semifeudal  social  system,  and  a  rapidly  growing  popula- 
tion. Democracy  faced  one  of  its  toughest  challenges  in  the 
Philippines. 

*    *  * 

The  single  best  source  for  understanding  Philippine  politics  and 
society  is  the  new  edition  of  David  J.  Steinberg's  concise,  insight- 
ful The  Philippines:  A  Singular  and  a  Plural  Place.  Bryan  Johnson's 
The  Four  Days  of  Courage  is  a  gripping  account  of  the  February  Revo- 
lution of  1986.  Raymond  Bonner's  controversial  Waltzing  with  a 
Dictator  provides  a  highly  detailed  account  of  what  he  sees  as  a  sym- 
biotic relationship  between  Marcos  and  various  United  States 
administrations.  Articles  by  Benjamin  Muego,  David  Rosenberg, 
and  Gareth  Porter  in  Steven  Dorr  and  Deborah  Mitchell's  The 


239 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Philippines  in  a  Changing  Southeast  Asia  offer  valuable  information  on 
the  Philippines'  relationships  with  its  Southeast  Asian  neighbors. 
The  Aquino s  ofTarlac,  by  Filipino  writer  Nick  Joaquin,  supplies  ex- 
cellent background  material  on  President  Aquino  and  her  family, 
and  an  article  by  Stanley  Karnow  in  the  New  York  Times  Magazine, 
"Cory  Aquino's  Downhill  Slide,"  reports  sympathetically  but  dis- 
appointedly on  the  Aquino  presidency. 

Gregg  R.  Jones,  an  American  who  spent  time  in  the  hills  with 
communist  rebels,  reveals  much  about  the  guerrilla  movement  in 
his  Red  Revolution.  Two  detailed  reports  on  human  rights  in  the 
Philippines  are  Amnesty  International's  Philippines:  A  Summary  of 
Amnesty  International^  Concerns  and  Asia  Watch's,  "The  Philippines." 
Everyday  Politics  in  the  Philippines,  by  Benedict  J.  Kerkvliet,  gives 
villagers'  views  of  political  and  social  life,  and  a  detailed,  probing 
series  of  articles  by  John  McBeth  about  the  resurgence  of  provin- 
cial dynasties  is  found  in  the  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review.  An  in- 
sightful analysis  of  Filipino  nationalism  and  how  it  is  interwoven 
with  religious  imagery  is  contained  in  three  essays  by  Ian  Buruma 
published  in  The  New  York  Review  of  Books. 

For  a  year-to-year  summary  of  political  developments,  the  best 
sources  are  the  annual  survey  articles  appearing  in  the  February 
issues  of  Asian  Survey  and  in  the  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review's 
Asia  Yearbook.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see 
Bibliography.) 


240 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


Main  gate  of  Fort  Santiago  in  Intramuros,  Manila 


Geographically  insulated  from  the  turmoil  and 

conflict  that  plagued  the  Southeast  Asian  mainland  during  the  de- 
cades after  World  War  II,  Filipinos  perceived  no  direct  external 
threat  to  their  island  nation.  Challenges  came  from  within.  A  se- 
ries of  rural  insurgencies  plagued  the  Philippines.  In  1990  the 
government  faced  three  major  challenges:  Muslim  separatists,  the 
communist  New  People's  Army  (NPA),  and,  ironically,  the  Philip- 
pine military,  traditionally  the  government's  protector.  The  rebel- 
lion by  Filipino  Muslims  in  Mindanao  and  the  Sulu  Archipelago 
seemed  the  least  menacing  of  the  three  major  challenges  to  the 
government.  Commonly  known  as  Moros,  the  Muslims  had  waged 
guerrilla  warfare  since  1972,  alternately  pressing  for  either  seces- 
sion or  increased  autonomy.  The  intensity  of  the  Moro  insurgen- 
cy, however,  had  significantly  declined  since  its  violent  peak  in  the 
mid-1970s.  Divisions  over  leadership  and  goals  among  the  three 
main  Moro  factions,  reduced  external  support,  pressure  by  the 
armed  forces,  and  government  political  accommodations — including 
the  creation  in  1990  of  a  Muslim  autonomous  region — contained 
periodic  threats  of  a  resurgent  Moro  rebellion  in  the  1990s. 
Although  government  forces  and  Muslim  rebels  clashed  only  oc- 
casionally by  1991,  the  government  still  respected  the  Moros'  po- 
litical and  military  power  and  guarded  against  escalating  violence 
in  the  south. 

The  Communist  Party  of  the  Philippines  (CPP)  and  its  military 
arm,  the  NPA,  presented  a  greater  challenge  to  the  government. 
Using  the  Maoist  strategy  of  protracted  people's  war,  the  com- 
munists had  pursued  a  ''national  democratic  revolution"  since  the 
late  1960s.  After  slow  but  steady  expansion  through  the  1970s  and 
early  1980s,  the  communist  rebellion  grew  rapidly  during  Presi- 
dent Ferdinand  E.  Marcos 's  last  years.  By  1985  the  NPA  oper- 
ated in  a  considerable  majority  of  the  country's  seventy-three 
provinces  and  exercised  substantial  control  in  some  20  percent  of 
Philippine  villages. 

Following  Corazon  C.  Aquino's  rise  to  power  in  1986,  the 
strength  of  the  NPA  peaked,  then  began  to  decline.  The  advent 
of  a  popular  president  was  only  the  first  of  several  significant  set- 
backs for  the  communists;  some  were  caused  by  the  communists 
themselves.  The  CPP's  failure  to  participate  in  the  downfall  of  Mar- 
cos and  the  subsequent  reversal  of  the  rebels'  fortunes  sparked  un- 
precedented debate  within  the  party  over  how  to  pursue  the  struggle. 


243 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Repeated  arrests  of  top  insurgent  cadres  also  prompted  a  bloody 
purge  of  the  rebels'  ranks  as  the  communists  attempted  to  weed 
out  suspected  government  informants.  Frustrated  with  the  party's 
inability  to  raise  more  funds  domestically  through  "revolutionary 
taxes,"  combined  voluntary  and  coerced  donations,  the  CPP  in- 
creasingly turned  to  foreign  sources  in  the  late  1980s.  Most  funds 
came  from  sympathetic  western  political,  labor,  and  charitable 
groups.  Breaking  with  a  longstanding  policy  of  " self-sufficiency, " 
the  communists  also  pursued  foreign  government  support.  As  of 
1991,  however,  there  was  no  evidence  that  any  nation  had  respond- 
ed to  the  CPP's  appeal.  With  an  estimated  18,000  to  23,000  full- 
time  guerrillas  in  1991,  the  CPP  and  the  NPA  remained  a  potent, 
although  not  immediate,  threat  to  the  government. 

Ironically,  the  Philippine  military,  long  the  state's  defender 
against  insurgency,  posed  the  most  serious  threat  to  the  democrat- 
ically elected  government  of  President  Aquino.  Most  observers 
traced  the  military's  unprecedented  rebelliousness  to  the  Marcos 
martial  law  era  (1972-81).  As  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines 
(AFP)  grew  rapidly  in  size  during  the  1970s,  so  did  the  involve- 
ment of  its  leaders  in  the  nation's  political  life.  Professionalism  erod- 
ed as  Marcos  loyalists  were  rewarded  with  key  positions  in  the 
military,  government,  and  civilian  corporations.  By  February  1986, 
the  military  was  deeply  factionalized  and  widely  criticized  by 
human  rights  groups  for  abuses  and  corruption.  In  the  wake 
of  a  fraudulent  tally  of  the  presidential  election  and  Marcos 's 
refusal  to  step  aside,  a  group  of  reform-minded  officers  mutinied 
and  sparked  a  popular  revolt  that  unseated  Marcos  and  allowed 
Corazon  Aquino  to  assume  the  presidency.  The  group  was  led  by 
the  commander  of  the  Philippine  Constabulary,  Lieutenant  General 
Fidel  V.  Ramos,  and  Minister  of  National  Defense  Juan  Ponce 
Enrile. 

Military  rebellions  continued  under  Aquino.  Three,  in  July  1986 
and  January  and  April  1987,  were  relatively  small  affairs  led  by 
disgruntled  former  Marcos  loyalists.  A  potentially  serious  plot  in 
October  to  November  1986  was  stillborn  and  resulted  in  the  removal 
of  the  minister  of  national  defense,  Juan  Ponce  Enrile.  The  rebel- 
lions of  August  1987  and  December  1989,  however,  were  credible 
coup  attempts  that,  by  most  accounts,  almost  toppled  the  presi- 
dent. They  were  led  by  many  of  the  same  reformist  officers  that 
had  helped  bring  Aquino  to  power.  Although  only  a  fraction  of 
the  AFP  actively  supported  the  coup  attempts,  many  personnel  were 
said  to  be  sympathetic  to  the  mutineers'  complaints  about  the 
government.  The  threat  of  yet  another  military  rebellion  persisted 


244 


National  Security 


in  1991  but  had  diminished  considerably  as  rebel  leaders  surren- 
dered to  the  government  and  talks  began  between  military  leaders 
and  rebels. 

When  not  distracted  by  coup  attempts,  the  153,500-member 
armed  forces  focused  on  combating  the  communist  insurgency  and, 
to  a  lesser  extent,  the  threat  of  a  rejuvenated  Moro  rebellion.  The 
ground  forces  dominated  the  counterinsurgency  effort.  The  smaller 
navy  and  air  force  provided  support  and  a  limited  patrol  capabili- 
ty. Improvements  in  the  military's  image,  discipline,  and  perfor- 
mance during  the  late  1980s  contributed  to  reversing  CPP  growth. 

With  nearly  all  available  resources  committed  to  internal  secu- 
rity functions,  the  AFP's  conventional  capabilities  were  modest. 
The  nation  had  faced  no  threat  of  direct  foreign  aggression  since 
Japan's  invasion  during  World  War  II.  The  United  States  and  the 
Philippines  were  parties  to  a  mutual  defense  treaty,  and  should  a 
credible  external  threat  emerge,  the  military  would  be  likely  to  rely 
on  support  from  the  United  States.  A  separate  treaty,  which  was 
to  expire  in  1991,  provided  for  the  maintenance  of  several  United 
States  military  installations  in  the  Philippines.  Negotiations  on  the 
future  of  the  American  bases  beyond  September  1991  were  ongo- 
ing in  mid- 1991. 

The  Armed  Forces  in  National  Life 
Historical  Background 

Philippine  military  tradition  traces  the  formal  beginnings  of  the 
national  armed  forces  to  the  military  force  established  under  the 
revolutionary  government  in  1897  by  Emilio  Aguinaldo.  The 
revolutionary  army  fought  successively  for  independence  from  Spain 
and  the  United  States  (see  The  1896  Uprising  and  Rizal's  Execu- 
tion, ch.  1).  Although  this  revolutionary  army  was  disbanded  in 
late  1 899  after  Aguinaldo  recognized  the  futility  of  meeting  the  nu- 
merically superior  and  better  armed  United  States  forces  in  fron- 
tal engagements,  a  guerrilla  war  against  the  United  States  continued 
until  1903.  According  to  their  own  ethos,  the  armed  forces  of  the 
late  twentieth  century  had  inherited  the  people's  mandate  to  de- 
fend the  sovereignty  of  the  Philippine  nation. 

The  United  States  colonial  government,  installed  in  1899,  made 
no  attempt  to  resurrect  the  defeated  Philippine  army,  but  military 
and  paramilitary  forces  still  played  an  important  role  in  national 
life.  For  example,  the  Philippine  Scouts  were  an  indigenous  mili- 
tary force  integrated  with  the  United  States  forces  maintained  in 
the  Philippines  for  external  defense. 


245 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

The  Philippine  Constabulary,  established  by  the  United  States 
administration  in  1901,  played  an  important  and  enduring  role. 
Although  originally  staffed  by  Filipinos  and  led  by  Americans,  the 
Philippine  Constabulary  acquired  a  Filipino  chief  in  1917,  and  by 
1933  nearly  all  its  officers  were  Filipino.  Constables  performed  a 
wide  variety  of  public  service  roles,  acting  as  jail  guards,  post- 
masters, game  wardens,  and  telegraph  repairmen,  and  the  Philip- 
pine Constabulary's  melding  of  police,  paramilitary,  and  civilian 
functions  provided  a  model  for  the  later  establishment  of  the  armed 
forces. 

The  Philippine  Constabulary's  role  in  national  life  waned  in  the 
1920s  as  civilian  institutions  began  to  develop,  but  military  influence 
rose  again  with  the  establishment  of  the  army  in  1936,  the  year 
after  the  Philippines  achieved  commonwealth  status.  The  new  army 
was  closely  patterned  after  the  United  States  model.  It  was  envi- 
sioned as  a  small,  professional  force  of  some  10,000  regulars,  who 
were  to  be  augmented  by  a  reserve  force  with  an  eventual  strength 
of  400,000  by  independence — promised  for  1946.  Although  the  ar- 
my's relatively  small  size  seemed  to  ensure  that  it  would  play  only 
a  small  part  in  national  life,  its  role  in  putting  down  a  number  of 
peasant  revolts,  as  well  as  the  growing  Japanese  threat,  forced  the 
army  into  a  more  prominent  position  in  the  late  1930s.  At  the  be- 
ginning of  World  War  II,  the  Philippine  army  supported  United 
States  forces;  when  the  latter  withdrew,  it  continued  protracted 
guerrilla  warfare  to  combat  the  Japanese  occupation. 

Following  World  War  II,  the  military's  influence  waxed  and 
waned,  based  on  internal  security  threats  and  the  inclinations  of 
the  national  administration.  The  armed  forces  became  involved 
in  partisan  politics  in  the  late  1940s  and  early  1950s  and  influenced 
the  1946  and  1949  elections.  In  the  early  1950s,  career  officers  filled 
high  government  posts  in  the  administration  of  Ramon  Magsay- 
say  (1953-57).  The  drive  to  defeat  the  Huk  (see  Glossary)  rebel- 
lion in  the  mid-  to  late  1940s  also  involved  the  military  in  Central 
Luzon's  local  government  and  led  to  a  great  expansion  of  the  armed 
forces'  civic  action  mission  (see  The  Magsaysay,  Garcia,  and 
Macapagal  Administrations,  1953-65,  ch.  1).  During  the  late  1950s 
and  early  1960s,  the  military's  influence  declined.  Under  the  ad- 
ministrations of  presidents  Carlos  P.  Garcia  (1957-61)  and  Dios- 
dado  Macapagal  (1961-65),  military  budgets  were  reduced,  civic 
action  was  trimmed,  and  the  armed  forces  were  kept  relatively 
subordinate  to  civilian  control. 

The  ascent  of  Ferdinand  Marcos  to  power  in  1965  reversed  the 
trend  toward  professionalism  in  the  AFP.  During  the  twenty  years 
of  his  rule,  he  granted  unprecedented  power  to  the  Philippine 


246 


National  Security 


military,  which  became  more  deeply  involved  than  ever  before  in 
the  country's  political  life.  On  taking  office,  he  reorganized  the 
AFP  and  shuffled  personnel  to  increase  his  personal  control  over 
the  military.  A  former  army  officer  himself,  Marcos  was  comfort- 
able with  military  men  and  developed  the  armed  forces  into  his 
principal  power  base. 

The  declaration  of  martial  law  by  Marcos  in  1972  set  the  stage 
for  enlarging  the  role  of  the  military  in  society.  The  armed  forces 
became  the  government's  principal  tool  to  combat  the  fledgling  com- 
munist insurgency  and,  during  the  mid-1970s,  the  violent  Mus- 
lim rebellion.  The  AFP  budget  grew  rapidly  and  its  strength 
increased  threefold.  Civic  action  operations  expanded  as  part  of 
the  military's  program  to  aid  rural  development,  increase  support 
for  the  government,  and  undercut  the  insurgents.  The  military  was 
involved  in  administering  the  national  criminal  justice  system,  par- 
ticularly in  insurgent-affected  areas.  The  military  also  was  direct- 
ly involved  in  the  management  of  the  economy  as  AFP  officers  took 
charge  of  many  major  companies,  moving  far  from  the  original 
model  of  a  small,  apolitical  military  that  performed  functions  strictly 
limited  to  conventional  defense  against  outside  aggression. 

Although  the  AFP's  influence  diminished  somewhat  following 
the  end  of  martial  law  in  1981,  Marcos  continued  to  control  the 
military  closely  through  his  close  friend  General  Fabian  Ver,  whom 
he  had  installed  as  AFP  chief  of  staff  in  1981 .  The  president  directed 
promotions  and  assignments  and  delayed  retirements,  ensuring  that 
officers  personally  loyal  to  him  filled  key  positions. 

Filipinos  increasingly  criticized  the  personalization  and  manipu- 
lation of  the  military  by  Marcos,  especially  following  the  military's 
alleged  involvement  in  the  1983  assassination  of  his  political  rival, 
Benigno  Aquino.  Discontent  also  emerged  in  the  military  and 
played  a  decisive  role  in  Marcos's  overthrow.  Critical  of  Marcos' s 
domination  of  the  military  and  of  the  alleged  corruption  and  in- 
competence of  senior  officers,  a  group  of  mid-level  AFP  officers 
founded  a  reform  movement — the  Reform  the  Armed  Forces  Move- 
ment (RAM) — in  1982.  These  officers,  led  by  then  Minister  of  Na- 
tional Defence  Juan  Ponce  Enrile  and  Vice  Chief  of  Staff  Fidel  V. 
Ramos  spearheaded  the  February  1986  military  leadership  of  the 
popular  revolt  that  ultimately  toppled  Marcos. 

Despite  the  Aquino  government's  attempts  to  depoliticize  the 
Philippine  military,  the  February  1986  rebellion  against  Marcos 
was  not  the  last  uprising.  Units  loyal  to  the  deposed  president  mu- 
tinied in  Manila  only  months  after  Aquino  took  office,  and  by  1991 
there  had  been  six  open  rebellions  against  her  rule.  The  two  most 
serious,  in  August  1987  and  December  1989,  were  led  by  the  RAM 


247 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


officers  that  had  helped  bring  her  to  power.  In  1991  discontented 
elements  of  the  AFP,  led  by  fugitive  RAM  founders,  still  threat- 
ened to  unseat  the  president. 

External  Defense 

The  Philippines  perceived  no  serious  threat  of  external  aggres- 
sion in  1991.  The  reduction  in  the  Soviet  naval  and  air  presence 
in  Vietnam  and  a  more  benign  Soviet  foreign  policy  had  eased  fears 
of  involvement  in  superpower  contention.  Although  some  Filipi- 
nos were  wary  of  the  growth  of  Japanese  military  capabilities,  Japan 
was  not  seen  as  a  near- term  threat. 

The  Philippines  had  two  territorial  disputes  in  1991  that  had  na- 
tional security  implications.  The  first  concerned  a  shallow  section 
of  the  South  China  Sea  west  of  the  Philippine  archipelago  containing 
some  small  islands  that  were  part  of  the  larger  group  of  Spratly 
Islands.  Referred  to  as  Kalayaan  by  the  Philippines,  it  is  a  rich 
fishing  area  that  had  been  identified  as  a  potential  source  of  petrole- 
um deposits  (see  Relations  with  Asian  Neighbors,  ch.  4).  The  Sprat- 
ly s,  however,  were  claimed  in  toto  by  China,  Vietnam,  and  Taiwan, 
whereas  Malaysia  laid  claim  to  parts  of  the  continental  shelf  un- 
derlying the  southernmost  islands  in  the  chain. 

The  Philippine  government  first  put  forth  informal  claims  to 
Kalayaan  in  the  mid-1950s.  In  1978  Marcos  made  formal  claims 
by  declaring  that  fifty-seven  of  the  islands  were  part  of  Palawan 
Province  by  virtue  of  their  presence  on  the  continental  margin  of 
the  archipelago.  The  Philippine  military,  which  first  occupied  three 
of  the  islands  in  1968,  continued  to  garrison  marines  on  several 
islands.  China,  Vietnam,  and  Taiwan  also  occupied  several  islands. 
Although  the  Chinese  and  Vietnamese  navies  clashed  in  the  Spradys 
in  March  1988,  as  of  1991  the  Philippines  had  not  been  involved 
in  any  military  confrontations  over  the  islands. 

The  other  territorial  dispute  involved  the  Malaysian  state  of 
Sabah  on  northern  Borneo.  In  1962,  when  the  British- administered 
territories  of  Sarawak  and  Sabah  were  incorporated  into  Malay- 
sia, the  Philippines  notified  Britain  of  its  claim  to  Sabah  on  the 
grounds  that  it  formed  part  of  the  Sultanate  of  Sulu  and  had  only 
been  leased  to  British  traders  beginning  in  1878.  When  Malaysia 
was  formed  in  1963,  the  Philippines  established  diplomatic  rela- 
tions but  then  immediately  broke  relations  over  the  Sabah  issue 
and  did  not  reestablish  them  until  1969.  Marcos  publicly  renounced 
the  claim  to  Sabah  in  1977,  but  Malaysia  insisted  that  total  renun- 
ciation required  a  constitutional  amendment.  The  issue  was  clouded 
by  ties  between  Muslims  in  the  southern  Philippines  and  Sabah, 


248 


National  Security 


and  by  Philippine  allegations — denied  by  Malaysia — that  Sabah 
afforded  sanctuary  to  Moro  rebels. 

Political  Role 

The  military  exerted  a  strong  influence  on  political  life  during 
the  early  1990s.  Observers  generally  agreed  that  the  unprecedent- 
ed rebelliousness  of  the  armed  forces  was  rooted  in  the  AFP's  po- 
litical role  in  the  Marcos  era.  Although  the  military  historically  had 
had  a  symbiotic  relationship  with  Philippine  politicians,  the  mar- 
tial law  era  (1972-81)  produced  tremendous  growth  in  the  AFP's 
political  role.  The  growing  insurgent  challenge  spurred  rapid  growth 
in  the  AFP  and  increased  the  military's  involvement  in  politics  as 
deployed  units  worked  with  local  governments  to  combat  the  reb- 
els and  military  tribunals  dispensed  justice  in  insurgent-affected 
areas.  As  a  result,  AFP  officers  became  important  power  brokers 
at  all  levels  of  society,  and  favored  officers  were  given  key  govern- 
ment positions  or  placed  on  the  boards  of  state-run  companies  (see 
The  Inheritance  from  Marcos,  ch.  4). 

As  popular  opposition  to  Marcos  grew  in  the  wake  of  the  1983 
Aquino  assassination,  the  president  increasingly  relied  on  the  mili- 
tary as  his  principal  power  base.  Marcos  concentrated  power  in 
the  hands  of  General  Fabian  Ver,  who,  as  military  chief  of  staff 
and  head  of  the  National  Intelligence  and  Security  Authority,  en- 
sured that  critical  positions  were  filled  by  officers  unquestionably 
loyal  to  the  president.  Ver's  family  and  proteges  and  other  ethnic 
Ilocanos  were  advanced,  often  at  the  expense  of  better  qualified 
candidates.  Lieutenant  General  Fidel  V.  Ramos,  vice  chief  of  staff 
and  later  Aquino's  chief  of  staff  and  secretary  of  national  defense, 
pointed  to  political  manipulation  of  the  armed  forces  as  a  key  fac- 
tor in  his  decision  to  break  with  Marcos  in  February  1986. 

The  RAM  was  openly  critical  of  Marcos 's  politicizing  of  the  AFP. 
Nominally  led  by  Colonel  Gregorio  Honasan,  RAM  consisted  most- 
ly of  graduates  of  the  prestigious  Philippine  Military  Academy, 
many  from  Honasan's  class  of  1971.  RAM  officers  first  gained 
wider  public  attention  in  1985  when,  at  an  academy  alumni  pa- 
rade, they  openly  protested  before  Marcos  and  AFP  leaders.  The 
officers  called  for  military  reforms  that  would  address  the  problems 
of  favoritism,  incompetence,  and  corruption  in  senior  leadership. 
Later,  these  reformists  played  a  key  role,  along  with  Ramos  and 
Enrile,  in  initiating  the  People's  Power  (see  Glossary)  revolution 
that  brought  Corazon  Aquino  to  power  (see  From  Aquino's  As- 
sassination to  People's  Power,  ch.  1). 

Following  the  change  of  government,  Enrile,  reappointed  to  head 
the  Ministry  of  National  Defense,  and  new  Chief  of  Staff  General 


249 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Ramos  undertook  a  series  of  internal  reforms  designed  to  profes- 
sionalize the  renamed  New  Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines.  (Af- 
ter one  year,  in  1987,  the  military  reverted  to  its  former  name, 
Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines.)  Twenty- two  generals,  whose 
retirements  Marcos  had  postponed,  were  quickly  dismissed  along 
with  other  senior  officers  perceived  as  Marcos  loyalists.  In  an 
effort  to  reduce  the  armed  forces'  involvement  in  government, 
officers  assigned  to  positions  outside  the  armed  forces  were  recalled. 
The  1987  Philippine  constitution  permanently  bars  retirement  ex- 
tensions, military  service  in  civilian  positions,  and  the  involvement 
of  military  personnel  in  politics.  A  widespread  program  of  reedu- 
cation and  retraining  was  initiated  to  instill  professional  values  at 
all  levels. 

Despite  government  efforts,  the  military  did  not  "return  to  the 
barracks,"  at  least  not  for  long.  During  Aquino's  first  four  years, 
military  elements  repeatedly  rebelled  (see  Civil-Military  Relations, 
ch.  4).  The  first  rebellion  occurred  in  July  1986,  only  five  months 
after  the  president  had  taken  office.  Several  hundred  Marcos  sup- 
porters backed  Arturo  Tolentino,  who  had  been  Marcos' s  vice 
presidential  running  mate  in  the  February  election,  in  a  takeover 
of  the  elegant  Manila  Hotel.  Following  calls  for  Marcos 's  return 
to  the  presidency,  the  mutineers  surrendered  and  were  punished 
with  fifty  push-ups.  Later  in  1986,  RAM  officers — seen  as  heroes 
of  the  February  revolution — again  emerged  as  a  political  force. 
Rampant  rumors  of  an  imminent  RAM  coup  in  November  led 
the  president  to  dismiss  Enrile,  who  was  seen  as  the  RAM  lead- 
ers' mentor.  Aquino  also  dismissed  several  "leftists"  from  her  cabi- 
net in  an  apparent  response  to  military  critics. 

Military  rebellions  continued  in  1987,  culminating  in  a  coup  at- 
tempt that  seriously  threatened  Aquino's  presidency.  On  January 
27,  Marcos  loyalists  struck  again,  seizing  a  Manila  television  sta- 
tion and  some  military  targets.  Although  the  government  quickly 
contained  the  rebellion,  holdouts  did  not  surrender  until  four  days 
later.  During  April,  a  smaller  group  of  military  rebels  briefly  oc- 
cupied the  Philippine  army  headquarters  in  what  became  known 
as  the  Black  Saturday  rebellion.  The  mutineers  surrendered  with- 
in hours. 

On  August  28,  RAM  launched  the  most  serious  coup  attempt 
up  to  that  time.  In  Manila,  Honasan  led  hundreds  of  troops  in 
attacks  on  television  stations,  Villamor  Air  Base,  and  the  Mala- 
canang  Palace.  The  palace  assault  failed,  and  rebel  forces  eventu- 
ally rallied  at  Camp  Aguinaldo  where  they  seized  the  AFP  General 
Headquarters.  Military  rebels  also  seized  several  military  camps 
around  the  country  in  simultaneous  revolts.  The  coup  collapsed 


250 


National  Security 


after  the  first  day,  and  Honasan  escaped  with  several  hundred  fol- 
lowers. Many  believed  the  coup  came  perilously  close  to  success. 

Underlying  the  RAM  move  was  deep-seated  military  dissatis- 
faction with  the  government  and  the  belief  among  military  officers 
that  they  sometimes  had  an  obligation  to  intervene  in  the  nation's 
political  life.  Reformist  leaders  complained  that  the  Aquino  govern- 
ment was  critical  of  the  military  and  unfairly  lenient  toward  the 
communists.  They  called  for  further  reform  of  the  government  and 
military  and  for  a  more  effective  counterinsurgency  program.  A 
poll  of  military  officers  prior  to  the  August  coup  attempt  showed 
broad  support  for  RAM's  grievances  and  substantial  support  for 
its  tactics.  More  than  75  percent  of  those  polled  blamed  political 
incompetence  and  corruption  for  NPA  growth.  Almost  all  supported 
a  military  role  in  national  development,  and  almost  half  thought 
the  AFP  might  have  to  seize  political  power  to  prevent  a  communist 
takeover.  Following  the  revolt,  the  Aquino  government  respond- 
ed to  some  military  complaints  by  improving  military  pay  and 
benefits. 

More  than  two  years  passed  before  RAM  acted  again,  this  time 
with  the  support  of  several  generals,  some  Marcos  loyalists,  and 
a  shadowy  new  military  group  called  the  Young  Officers'  Union. 
This  long  and  bloody  coup  attempt  began  on  December  1,  1989, 
when  rebels  launched  a  series  of  attacks  in  Manila  and  seized  a 
major  air  base  in  Cebu.  Elite  marine  and  army  Scout  Ranger  units 
briefly  held  parts  of  the  army  and  air  force  headquarters  and  Ma- 
nila's Ninoy  Aquino  International  Airport  before  moving  against 
Camp  Aguinaldo.  Although  the  attack  on  the  armed  forces  head- 
quarters failed,  rebels  seized  part  of  Manila's  Makati  financial  dis- 
trict and  bombed  the  presidential  palace  grounds.  United  States 
warplanes  from  Clark  Air  Base  overflew  rebel  bases  in  a  show  of 
support  for  the  president,  but  they  did  not  fire  on  the  mutineers. 
The  Makati  standoff  ended  on  December  7  with  the  negotiated  sur- 
render of  the  Scout  Rangers,  and  the  Cebu  rebellion  collapsed  two 
days  later.  Nearly  100  people  died  in  the  fighting,  and  more  than 
600  people  were  injured. 

The  shadow  of  the  1989  coup  attempt  and  threat  of  further  mili- 
tary unrest  hung  over  much  of  1990.  Perceived  political  instabili- 
ty discouraged  investors  and  contributed  to  an  economic  downturn, 
and  frequent  coup  rumors  and  Manila  bombings  attributed  to  mili- 
tary rebels  fueled  several  serious  coup  scares  in  the  capital.  With- 
in the  rebel  movement,  the  younger,  more  radical  idealists  in  the 
Young  Officers'  Union  emerged  as  a  growing  force.  The  group's 
public  statements  portrayed  them  as  social  revolutionaries.  Mean- 
while, a  presidentially  appointed  panel  investigated  the  1989  coup 


251 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


and  its  causes.  The  Davide  Commission  concluded  that,  although 
many  complaints  of  the  military  were  legitimate,  a  hidden 
agenda — a  desire  for  the  power  and  privilege  that  the  military  en- 
joyed under  Marcos — animated  the  rebel  movement. 

The  Counterinsurgency  Campaign 

The  armed  forces'  primary  mission  in  the  late  1980s  was  com- 
bating the  communist  insurgency.  During  Marcos' s  last  years,  the 
communist  movement  had  expanded  rapidly  in  political  influence 
and  military  strength.  By  1986,  when  Aquino  came  to  power,  the 
armed  forces  estimated  that  there  were  some  22,500  regular  NPA 
guerrillas  active  in  sixty-three  of  the  country's  seventy-three 
provinces.  Reported  insurgent  strength  peaked  the  following  year 
at  about  26,000  people.  The  Muslim  insurgency,  meanwhile,  was 
relatively  quiet.  Although  the  military  maintained  forces  in  Moro 
areas,  clashes  with  government  forces  were  infrequent  and  the  threat 
of  a  full-scale  resurgence  was  low  (see  The  Communist  Insurgen- 
cy; The  Moros,  this  ch.). 

Despite  many  well-publicized  programs,  the  counterinsurgen- 
cy effort  in  the  early  and  mid-1980s  was  clearly  failing  to  stem  the 
rising  tide  of  communist  influence.  Government  estimates  of  NPA 
strength  more  than  tripled  between  1983  and  1986,  from  around 
6,000  to  more  than  20,000.  Recognizing  the  growing  problem, 
Marcos  escalated  the  counterinsurgency  effort,  emphasizing  civic 
action.  Under  the  aegis  of  the  Home  Defense  Program,  military 
units  constructed  roads  and  schools,  provided  disaster  relief,  as- 
sisted in  maintaining  security  and  public  utilities,  and  performed 
law  enforcement.  Army  engineer  units,  greatiy  expanded  with  Unit- 
ed States  assistance,  played  a  key  role  in  these  development  efforts. 
The  armed  forces  also  took  part  in  literacy  projects  and  the  Na- 
tional Livelihood  Program,  which  were  designed  to  improve  the 
standard  of  living  in  rural  areas. 

These  programs  notwithstanding,  the  government  lost  ground 
in  its  efforts  to  win  hearts  and  minds.  Part  of  the  reason  was  the 
declining  popularity  of  the  Marcos  government  and  increasing  criti- 
cism of  the  armed  forces.  Many  Filipinos  felt  that  those  in  the  mili- 
tary, particularly  in  the  Philippine  Constabulary  and  the  militia, 
the  Civilian  Home  Defense  Force,  had  become  increasingly  abu- 
sive and  corrupt.  Human  rights  groups  documented  numerous  petty 
crimes  as  well  as  more  serious  instances  of  unlawful  arrest,  tor- 
ture, and  "salvaging,"  the  assassination  of  suspects  and  detainees. 
Most  victims  were  suspected  insurgents  or  their  supporters.  Pub- 
lic respect  for  the  military  eroded,  and  relations  between  the  armed 
forces  and  important  groups,  such  as  the  Roman  Catholic  Church, 


252 


Headquarters  of  the  Department  of  National  Defense,  Manila 

Courtesy  Robert  L.  Worden 

deteriorated.  Attempts  to  improve  discipline  within  the  armed  forces 
through  retraining,  punishment,  and  dismissal  appeared  to  do  lit- 
tle to  quell  growing  public  fear  and  suspicion. 

Initially,  the  Aquino  government  reversed  the  decline  in  human 
rights  performance  and  made  notable  strides  in  restoring  the  tar- 
nished image  of  the  military.  The  1987  constitution  outlawed  tor- 
ture and  all  forms  of  "secret  and  incommunicado  detention."  It 
also  established  a  permanent  Commission  on  Human  Rights  and 
directed  that  the  militia,  constabulary,  and  police  forces — frequent 
targets  of  abuse  complaints — be  disbanded.  The  armed  forces  were 
far  less  abusive  in  1986  according  to  human  rights  groups.  However, 
military  discipline  apparently  worsened  over  the  next  two  years. 
In  1987  military  personnel  were  primary  suspects  in  the  assassi- 
nation of  a  prominent  leftist  political  activist  and  in  two  other  in- 
cidents that  resulted  in  the  deaths  of  twelve  Manila  demonstrators 
and  seventeen  rural  villagers.  International  human  rights  moni- 
tors alleged  that  abuses  in  1988  were  as  bad  as  they  were  under 
Marcos.  In  an  apparent  reaction  to  mounting  criticism,  the  mili- 
tary renewed  efforts  to  improve  civil-military  relations,  and  reported 
abuse  by  the  military  declined  over  the  next  two  years. 

Human  rights  remained  a  concern  in  1991.  According  to  the 
United  States  Department  of  State's  1990  annual  human  rights 


253 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

report  to  Congress,  abuses — including  extrajudicial  killings — 
continued.  The  report  also  criticized  the  government's  failure  to 
prosecute  those  responsible  for  the  crimes.  Lapses  in  the  adminis- 
tration of  justice  were  attributed  in  part  to  the  strong  imperative 
of  the  military  to  protect  its  own  members,  who  were  tried  in  mili- 
tary courts.  Convictions  on  human  rights  violations  were  rare.  Still, 
by  1990  the  overall  armed  forces  human  rights  record  under  Aquino 
was  much  improved  over  the  Marcos  era. 

Although  the  Aquino  government  scored  other  successes  in  its 
counterinsurgency  campaign,  initial  efforts  proved  disappoint- 
ing. The  new  administration  hoped  that  many  NPA  personnel 
could  be  coaxed  out  of  the  hills  following  the  overthrow  of  Marcos 
and  took  up  the  theme  of  reconciliation  in  1986.  One  of  Aquino's 
first  acts  was  to  release  political  detainees,  including  captured  CPP 
chairman  Jose  Maria  Sison.  Later,  following  talks  with  senior  rep- 
resentatives of  the  communist  National  Democratic  Front,  the 
government  agreed  to  a  sixty-day  cease-fire,  which  ended  in  Febru- 
ary 1987.  The  president  also  issued  an  executive  order  establish- 
ing the  National  Reconciliation  and  Development  Program.  The 
revived  rebel  amnesty  program  was  inaugurated  in  January  1987 
to  encourage  NPA  defections  by  offering  land,  job  training,  and 
assimilation  into  society.  The  reconciliation  approach  was  a  dis- 
appointment to  the  government,  however,  as  few  insurgents  sur- 
rendered. As  a  result,  Aquino  altered  government  strategy  in  March 
1987  when  she  announced  the  "unleashing"  of  the  military. 

Following  the  1986  change  of  government,  the  military  resumed 
full-scale  counterinsurgency  operations  with  a  new  strategy  known 
as  Mamamayan,  meaning  people.  Mamamayan  was  similar  in  most 
respects  to  the  previous  counterinsurgency,  or  COIN,  plan,  Mar- 
cos's  Katatagan  (stability),  but  added  President  Aquino's  theme 
of  reconciliation  to  the  original  program  of  "clear,  hold,  consoli- 
date, and  develop."  The  revised  COIN  plan  called  for  military 
units,  with  the  cooperation  of  other  government  agencies,  to  sys- 
tematically clear  areas  of  insurgents,  to  hold  the  region  against 
returning  guerrillas,  to  consolidate  support  for  the  government, 
and  to  develop  the  area  economically.  The  first  task — clearing  rebel- 
infested  areas — was  seen  as  the  task  of  mobile  forces — the  army 
battalions  and  constabulary  special  action  forces.  The  role  of  holding 
and  consolidating  liberated  regions  was  assigned  to  territorial 
forces — the  constabulary,  police,  and  militia  units. 

The  updated  counterinsurgency  strategy  was  complemented  by 
revamped  armed  forces  tactics  that  were  generally  credited  with 
contributing  to  the  insurgency's  decline  during  the  late  1980s.  Un- 
der Aquino,  the  military  continued  its  shift  away  from  conventional 


254 


National  Security 


methods  such  as  food  blockades,  cordon  and  search  operations,  and 
hamletting  (the  forced  relocation  of  villages  controlled  or  threatened 
by  the  NPA).  These  methods,  employed  during  the  1970s  war 
against  the  Moros,  were  too  often  ineffective  and  counterproduc- 
tive because  they  frequently  alienated  the  populace.  In  other 
respects,  the  military's  approach  to  COIN  efforts  changed  little. 
Most  military  units  operated  as  they  had  under  Marcos,  in  static 
positions  protecting  town  halls,  businesses,  and  major  roads. 

The  deployment  of  special  operations  teams  beginning  in  1987 
and  the  formation  of  new  militia  units  in  1988  were  touted  by  mili- 
tary leaders  as  important  steps  toward  more  effective  COIN.  Spe- 
cial operations  teams  were  squad-sized  military  counterinsurgency 
teams  dispatched  to  CPP-influenced  villages  to  dismantie  the  com- 
munists' political  infrastructure  by  conducting  civic  action  and 
propaganda  programs.  These  teams  worked  in  conjunction  with 
the  newly  revamped  militia,  now  called  the  Citizens  Armed  Forces 
Geographic  Units  (CAFGUs),  to  provide  security  to  each  remote 
barangay  (see  Glossary).  The  CAFGUs  replaced  the  Civilian  Home 
Defense  Force,  which  was  frequently  criticized  as  abusive  by  hu- 
man rights  groups.  Local  anticommunist  vigilante  groups,  some 
associated  with  the  military,  also  proved  effective  deterrents  to  com- 
munist organizing  and  NPA  activity  in  certain  areas  (see  Organi- 
zation and  Training,  this  ch.). 

Improved  military  intelligence  also  played  an  important  role  in 
undercutting  the  insurgency  in  the  late  1980s.  Military  intelligence 
agents  repeatedly  captured  top  CPP  and  NPA  cadres  and  gathered 
revealing  CPP  and  NPA  documents.  Rodolfo  Salas,  the  CPP's 
former  chairman,  was  among  numerous  central  committee  mem- 
bers rounded  up.  The  fear  of  government  intelligence  penetrations 
of  communist  ranks  contributed  to  devastating  purges  of  rebel  ranks 
between  1985  and  1988. 

Perhaps  the  biggest  contribution  to  the  counterinsurgency  cam- 
paign in  the  late  1980s  was  political,  not  military.  Communist  lead- 
ers admitted  that  Aquino,  by  restoring  popular  government  and 
democratic  institutions,  significantly  set  back  the  revolutionary 
movement.  Further  civilian  contributions  in  the  fight  against  the 
communists  were  encouraged  by  the  creation  in  1987  of  Peace  and 
Order  Councils.  Established  at  all  levels  of  government,  the  coun- 
cils consisted  of  political  and  military  leaders  as  well  as  selected 
community  representatives  and  were  charged  with  fostering  greater 
civilian  involvement  and  cooperation  in  what  traditionally  had  been 
a  military  counterinsurgency  struggle.  A  1989  United  States  mili- 
tary study,  however,  concluded  that  the  COIN  effort  remained 


255 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


largely  a  military  effort  despite  the  communist  insurgency's  polit- 
ical character. 

Foreign  and  Filipino  critics  of  the  government's  COIN  program 
further  alleged  that  the  communist  insurgency  had  endured  for  more 
than  twenty  years  because  the  Philippines  had  not  effectively  ad- 
dressed the  social  and  cultural  roots  of  the  rural  rebellion.  The  com- 
munist rebellion,  it  was  said,  was  fed  by  the  same  social  and 
economic  inequities  that  had  prompted  previous  peasant  uprisings. 
The  disparity  between  the  small,  but  very  wealthy,  elite  and  the 
many  impoverished  was  fundamental  to  the  appeal  of  the  revolu- 
tionary movement.  Issues  such  as  land  reform  resonated  strongly 
among  poor  farmers,  who  also  complained  of  abuses  by  landlords 
and  politicians.  Until  such  grievances  were  resolved,  observers  not- 
ed, they  would  continue  to  fuel  insurgent  activity  in  the  country. 

Recruitment  and  Personnel 

The  combined  strength  of  the  four  armed  services  at  the  end  of 
1990  was  approximately  153,500.  The  army  had  some  68,000 
troops,  the  constabulary  45,000,  the  air  force  15,500,  and  the  navy 
25,000,  including  about  8,000  in  the  marines  and  2,000  in  the  coast 
guard.  After  rapid  growth  during  the  1970s,  when  armed  forces 
strength  trebled,  total  military  strength  remained  relatively  stable 
in  the  1980s.  (There  were  155,000  personnel  in  the  Philippine  mili- 
tary in  1980.)  Because  the  Philippines  had  a  relatively  youthful 
population,  maintaining  the  strength  of  the  armed  forces  was  not 
a  drain  on  human  resources.  More  than  8  million  men  were  of 
military  age,  between  eighteen  and  thirty-two.  Military  strength 
per  capita  was  only  2.3  per  1,000  population,  lower  than  nearly 
all  the  country's  Asian  neighbors. 

Although  universal  service  was  mandatory,  the  Armed  Forces 
of  the  Philippines  was  a  de  facto  volunteer  force.  The  1980  Na- 
tional Service  Law  provided  the  legal  basis  for  conscription  and 
required  all  citizens — male  and  female— to  perform  service  in  the 
military,  civic  welfare,  or  law  enforcement  agencies.  However,  the 
law  was  never  fully  implemented.  Conscription  was  not  necessary 
during  the  1980s  because  volunteers  greatly  outnumbered  avail- 
able slots.  Despite  the  inherent  danger  of  military  service  during 
the  fight  against  the  communist  insurgency,  limited  employment 
opportunities  for  unskilled  young  adults  ensured  an  abundant  sup- 
ply of  volunteers.  The  armed  forces  had  no  recruiting  apparatus; 
units  instead  recruited  locally  to  fill  vacancies.  Potential  recruits 
had  to  be  eighteen  years  old,  unmarried,  and  possess  a  high  school 
diploma. 


256 


National  Security 


Officers  were  commissioned  from  three  major  sources.  Regular 
officers  were  commissioned  from  the  prestigious  Philippine  Mili- 
tary Academy,  which  produced  15  percent  of  all  officers.  Some  65 
percent  were  graduates  of  Citizen  Military  Training,  formerly  the 
Reserve  Officers  Training  Corps  (ROTC).  Most  received  reserve 
commissions,  whereas  some,  called  "integrees,"  were  integrated 
into  the  regular  officer  corps.  Enlisted  personnel  who  completed 
Officer  Candidate  School  accounted  for  some  18  percent  of  all 
officers.  The  other  2  percent  of  officers  received  direct  commis- 
sions as  medical  or  legal  professionals  or  graduated  from  foreign 
military  academies.  Noncommissioned  officers  (NCOs)  did  not  con- 
stitute the  professional  corps  found  in  most  Western  armies  and 
were  only  marginally  involved  in  leadership  and  decision  making. 

Ethnic  and  linguistic  differences  were  important  in  the  military. 
Local  recruiting  ensured  that  personnel  were  drawn  from  all  sec- 
tions of  the  country,  but  certain  regions  were  disproportionately 
represented.  The  majority  of  military  personnel  spoke  Tagalog  and 
were  from  the  heartland  of  central  and  southern  Luzon.  Despite 
continuing  efforts  to  increase  the  number  of  Muslims  in  the  mili- 
tary, Moros  from  the  southern  Philippines  were  underrepresent- 
ed.  Traditionally,  Ilocanos  from  northern  Luzon  comprised  a 
disproportionate  share  of  officer  and  enlisted  ranks.  This  empha- 
sis was  especially  true  under  Marcos,  who  tended  to  promote  fel- 
low Ilocanos  to  positions  of  power  in  the  armed  forces  and  police. 
Because  of  this  tendency — shared  by  previous  presidents — the  1987 
constitution  directs  that  the  "armed  forces  shall  be  recruited  propor- 
tionately from  all  provinces  and  cities  as  far  as  practicable." 
Although  language  and  dialect  compelled  people  from  the  same 
region  to  associate  with  one  another,  these  groups  were  not  so  ex- 
clusive that  they  formed  significant  factions. 

A  variety  of  internal  divisions  plagued  the  officer  corps  in  the 
late  1980s.  The  most  significant  rifts  essentially  were  political — 
between  those  who  supported  the  government  and  those  who  ad- 
vocated its  overthrow.  The  military-sparked  popular  revolt  against 
Marcos  and  the  subsequent  series  of  uprisings  against  Aquino 
brought  military  leaders  into  direct,  sometimes  bloody,  conflict. 
A  variety  of  military  factions  and  fraternal  groups,  including  RAM, 
Young  Officers'  Union,  and  Marcos  loyalists,  emerged  as  impor- 
tant antigovernment  players  (see  Political  Role,  this  ch.).  In  an 
effort  to  contain  the  influence  of  these  groups,  the  government  or- 
dered military  fraternal  organizations  disbanded  in  1987.  However, 
through  clandestine  contacts,  RAM,  the  Young  Officers'  Union, 
and  Marcos  loyalists  orchestrated  the  1989  coup  attempt  with  the 
support  of  three  generals.  These  groups  remained  active  in  1991, 


257 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

criticizing  government  and  military  leaders  and  threatening  another 
coup  attempt.  Their  activities  continued  to  undermine  the  authority 
of  the  military  chain  of  command. 

Following  the  1989  coup  attempt,  the  president's  military  ad- 
viser, a  retired  army  commander,  attributed  the  involvement  of 
so  many  junior  leaders  to  a  "generational  gap"  in  the  armed  forces 
between  mostly  loyal  senior  officers  and  the  more  rebellious  junior 
ranks.  He  credited  younger  officers'  better  education  for  the  ten- 
dency of  some,  like  those  in  the  Young  Officers'  Union,  to  become 
more  involved  in  politics  and  to  question  the  directives  of  their  su- 
periors. 

Frictions  created  by  perceived  inequity  in  the  military's  personnel 
system  also  dogged  the  officer  corps.  Although  the  divisive  Marcos- 
era  practice  of  extending  generals  beyond  their  scheduled  retire- 
ment was  discontinued  in  1986,  other  controversial  practices  con- 
tinued under  Aquino.  Officers  with  reserve  commissions — the 
majority  of  the  officer  corps — complained  that  the  personnel  sys- 
tem favored  regular  officers,  especially  Philippine  Military  Academy 
(PMA)  graduates.  Although  past  regimes,  such  as  the  Marcos  re- 
gime, had  advanced  ROTC  graduates,  nearly  all  top  generals  un- 
der Aquino  were  academy  alumni.  Bonds  between  PMA  graduates, 
especially  classmates,  tended  to  perpetuate  this  favoritism.  In  1986 
reservists  formed  an  organization  similar  to  the  PMA  alumni  as- 
sociation to  promote  their  interests.  The  presidentially  appointed 
Davide  Commission  investigating  the  causes  of  the  1989  coup  at- 
tempt identified  another  source  of  discontent — the  role  of  personal 
ties  in  promotions  and  assignments.  Observers  noted  that  the 
patron-client  ties  and  personal  loyalties  that  were  typical  of  Philip- 
pine society  were  perhaps  the  biggest  factor  in  the  career  prospects 
for  officers. 

Women  belonged  to  a  separate  Women's  Auxiliary  Corps  in  each 
of  the  services.  Except  for  Officer  Candidate  School,  they  were 
trained  separately.  Women  were  assigned  to  a  limited  number  of 
specified  support  positions  and  were  a  relatively  small  part  of  the 
total  force. 

Defense  Spending  and  Industry 

After  steadily  declining  defense  spending  during  the  early  1980s, 
the  defense  budget  grew  in  the  latter  half  of  the  decade.  Military 
spending  in  1988  totaled  14.14  billion  pesos  (for  value  of  the  peso — 
see  Glossary),  or  US$680  million,  about  1.7  percent  of  the  coun- 
try's gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary).  The  1988  budget 
represented  a  greater  than  50  percent  increase  in  real  spending  for 
defense  (adjusted  for  inflation)  over  1985,  the  last  full  year  Marcos 


258 


National  Security 


was  in  office.  Defense  spending  as  a  proportion  of  national  govern- 
ment expenditures  also  grew  during  Aquino's  tenure,  from  a  1985 
low  of  7.7  percent,  to  9.1  percent  in  1989.  Still,  the  military's  share 
of  the  national  budget,  like  total  military  spending,  did  not  approach 
the  peaks  reached  during  the  Moro  wars  of  the  1970s.  In  1979  the 
Philippines  spent  more  than  PI 7  billion  (US$806  million)  for 
defense,  a  figure  that  represented  almost  17  percent  of  the  govern- 
ment's budget. 

Budget  figures  do  not  include  United  States  security  assistance, 
which  represented  a  substantial  portion  of  total  spending  on  the 
Philippine  military.  United  States  military  aid  increased  signifi- 
cantly after  Aquino  came  to  power,  accounting  for  80  percent  of 
military  spending  on  procurement,  operations,  and  maintenance 
in  1989.  United  States  military  aid  that  year  amounted  to  US$127.6 
million.  Most  of  the  assistance — US$125  million — was  provided 
as  a  grant  under  the  Military  Assistance  Program;  the  US$2.6  mil- 
lion balance  funded  training  for  Filipinos  under  the  United  States 
International  Military  Education  and  Training  Program.  During 
the  1988  review  of  the  Military  Bases  Agreement,  the  United  States 
pledged  its  best  efforts  to  increase  grant  aid  to  the  Philippine  mili- 
tary to  US$200  million  annually  in  1990  and  1991. 

The  thrust  of  United  States  security  assistance  efforts  in  the  late 
1980s  was  to  help  the  Philippine  armed  forces  better  combat  the 
communist  insurgency.  Improved  tactical  mobility  and  commu- 
nications and  better  equipped  soldiers  were  top  priorities.  Between 
1986  and  1989,  the  United  States  sent  the  Philippines  almost  2,900 
military  vehicles,  nearly  50  helicopters,  more  than  1,650  radios, 
approximately  225,000  military  uniforms,  and  more  than  150,000 
pairs  of  combat  boots.  Other  assistance  items  included  assorted  in- 
fantry weapons  and  ammunition  and  medical  equipment. 

The  Self-Reliant  Defense  Posture  (SRDP)  program,  initiated  in 
1974,  took  the  development  of  a  domestic  defense  industry  as  its 
objective.  Defense  officials  contracted  SRDP  projects  with  the 
government  arsenal  and  local  manufacturers,  encouraging  the  use 
of  indigenous  raw  materials  and  production  capacity.  Projects  in- 
cluded domestic  production  of  small  arms,  radios,  and  assorted  am- 
munition. One  of  the  most  significant  SRDP  operations  was  the 
manufacture  of  the  M-16A1  rifle  under  license  from  Colt  Indus- 
tries, an  American  company.  According  to  a  1988  statement  by 
the  Philippine  armed  forces  chief  of  staff,  the  SRDP  not  only  in- 
creased Philippine  self-reliance,  but  also  cut  costs,  provided  jobs, 
and  saved  much-needed  foreign-exchange  funds. 

Despite  growing  budgets  and  increased  foreign  military  aid,  the 
armed  forces  still  was  described  in  1989  as  one  of  the  most  poorly 


259 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


funded  militaries  in  Asia.  Philippine  defense  spending  on  a  per  cap- 
ita and  per  soldier  basis  remained  the  lowest  of  the  Association  of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  countries,  despite  an  active  com- 
munist insurgency.  One  study  of  the  military  concluded  that  the 
armed  forces  suffered  from  major  resource  problems.  The  author 
cited  serious  shortages  of  vehicles,  helicopters,  radios,  basic  infan- 
try equipment,  and  spare  parts.  Food,  medicine,  and  clothing  also 
were  said  to  be  in  chronically  short  supply.  Shortages  were  com- 
pounded by  an  inefficient  logistics  system  hobbled  by  red  tape  and 
corruption.  Soldiers'  poor  living  and  working  conditions  often  were 
mentioned  as  underlying  factors  in  the  military's  discipline 
problems.  Top  AFP  leaders  acknowledged  many  of  these  short- 
comings and  were  attempting  to  correct  the  mismanagement  of 
resources. 

Plans  in  1990  called  for  modernizing  the  military,  particularly 
the  air  force  and  navy — services  whose  forces  had  received  rela- 
tively little  funding  because  of  the  army's  extended  counterinsur- 
gency  campaign.  Many  of  the  navy's  major  ships  and  craft  were 
World  War  II-era,  and  the  aging  fleet  was  increasingly  difficult 
to  maintain.  Modernization  plans  called  for  phasing  out  inefficient 
ships,  refitting  others,  and  acquiring  more  patrol  craft.  Using  Unit- 
ed States  military  aid,  the  navy  contracted  in  1989  for  thirty-five 
fast  patrol  craft,  thirty  of  which  were  to  be  assembled  in  the  Philip- 
pines by  1997.  The  air  force  inventory,  described  as  one  of  the 
most  primitive  in  the  region,  likewise  was  to  be  enhanced  by  major 
purchases  under  a  ten-year  modernization  scheme.  The  United 
States  was  scheduled  to  deliver  twenty-nine  MD-520  attack  helicop- 
ters between  1990  and  1992.  The  air  force  also  was  hoping  to  add 
two  squadrons  of  modern  fighters  such  as  the  United  States  F-16 
to  its  fleet  of  nine  F-5s. 

The  Structure  of  the  Armed  Forces 

Commonwealth  Act  1 ,  the  National  Defense  Act  of  1935,  man- 
dated the  formation  of  the  Army  of  the  Philippines,  comprising 
all  eventual  land,  sea,  air,  and  national  police  forces.  The  existing 
Philippine  Constabulary  was  abolished  and  used  as  the  nucleus  of 
the  new  army.  The  Philippine  Constabulary's  air  force  became  the 
army's  air  arm,  and  a  small  maritime  element,  the  Offshore  Patrol, 
was  added  in  1939.  Coincident  with  a  reorganization  of  the  govern- 
ment following  independence,  the  military  forces  were  redesignated 
the  Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines  in  1947.  That  organization 
was  essentially  an  army  command  in  which  air  force,  maritime, 
and  police  internal  security  units  were  constituted  as  subordinate 
commands.  A  more  fundamental  reorganization  of  the  military 


260 


National  Security 


establishment  in  1950,  which  was  brought  about  in  part  by  the  grow- 
ing Huk  insurgency  (see  The  Huk  Rebellion,  ch.  1),  established 
four  separate  services — army,  navy,  air  force,  and  national  police — 
under  a  joint  headquarters.  The  national  police  was  renamed  the 
Philippine  Constabulary  in  1959.  The  army  continued  to  dominate 
the  command  structure,  however,  until  1960  when  the  headquar- 
ters was  converted  to  a  truly  joint  command. 

The  Philippines  deployed  combat  forces  abroad  on  three  occa- 
sions. Expeditionary  forces  served  in  the  Republic  of  Korea  (South 
Korea)  under  the  United  Nations  Command  between  1950  and 
1955.  Also  under  United  Nations  auspices,  air  force  officers  and 
enlisted  personnel  were  sent  to  the  Republic  of  the  Congo  (now 
Zaire)  in  1963.  From  1966  until  the  early  1970s,  the  2,000-strong 
Philippine  Civic  Action  Group,  composed  mainly  of  engineer,  secu- 
rity, medical,  and  rural  community  development  teams,  was  ac- 
tive in  the  Republic  of  Vietnam  (South  Vietnam). 

The  1987  constitution  mandated  further  changes  in  the  struc- 
ture of  the  armed  forces.  The  existing  militia,  the  Civilian  Home 
Defense  Force,  was  ordered  disbanded  and  was  replaced  begin- 
ning in  1988  with  a  new  auxiliary  force  under  the  direct  control 
of  military  regulars.  More  significantly,  the  1987  constitution  calls 
for  the  government  "to  establish  and  maintain  one  police  force, 
which  shall  be  national  in  scope  and  civilian  in  character."  Pur- 
suant to  that  mandate,  Aquino  signed  a  law  directing  that  the  Philip- 
pine Constabulary,  one  of  the  four  military  services,  be  combined 
with  the  civilian  Integrated  National  Police  to  form  the  Philippine 
National  Police.  The  process  of  integrating  the  two  organizations 
under  a  newly  created  Department  of  Interior  and  Local  Govern- 
ment began  on  January  1,  1991. 

Organization  and  Training 

The  1987  constitution  mandates  civilian  control  of  the  military 
and  establishes  the  president  as  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed 
forces.  The  president  also  heads  the  National  Security  Council, 
ostensibly  the  policy-making  and  advisory  body  for  matters  con- 
nected with  national  defense.  President  Aquino  reestablished  the 
council  in  1986  through  an  executive  order  that  provided  for  a  Na- 
tional Security  Council  director  to  advise  the  president  on  nation- 
al security  matters  and  for  a  National  Security  Council  Secretariat. 
The  council  itself  is  composed  of  the  president  and  at  least  nine 
others:  the  vice  president;  the  AFP  chief  of  staff;  National  Securi- 
ty Council  director;  the  executive  secretary;  and  the  secretaries  of 
foreign  affairs,  national  defense,  interior  and  local  government, 
justice,  and  labor  and  employment  (called  ministers  before  1987). 


261 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

By  the  end  of  1990,  however,  the  National  Security  Council  had 
only  convened  twice. 

Much  of  the  real  authority  for  policy  development  appeared  to 
reside  with  a  smaller  cabinet  group  that  met  more  frequently.  A 
cabinet  Cluster  for  Political  and  Security  Affairs,  known  as  Cluster 
E,  routinely  advised  the  president  on  national  security  matters. 
Cluster  E  membership  was  more  limited,  but  included  key  mem- 
bers of  the  National  Security  Council,  such  as  its  director  and  the 
secretaries  of  national  defense,  foreign  affairs,  justice,  and  finance. 

Responsibility  for  national  security  was  vested  in  the  Depart- 
ment of  National  Defense.  The  principal  functions  of  the  depart- 
ment in  1991  were  to  defend  the  state  against  internal  and  external 
threats  and,  through  the  Philippine  National  Police,  to  maintain 
law  and  order.  A  broad  interpretation  of  these  roles  historically 
has  involved  the  department  in  national  development  tasks,  includ- 
ing civic  action,  to  address  the  causes  for  internal  unrest.  The  secre- 
tary of  national  defense,  by  law  a  civilian,  was  charged  with  advising 
the  president  on  defense  matters  and  developing  defense  policy. 

Authority  over  the  AFP's  four  services  was  vested  in  the  chief 
of  staff,  a  general.  The  chief  of  staff  exercised  command  through 
the  General  Headquarters,  which  was  located  with  the  Department 
of  National  Defense  in  Manila's  Camp  Aguinaldo.  Immediately 
subordinate  to  him  was  the  vice  chief  of  staff,  a  lieutenant  gener- 
al, and  the  deputy  chief  of  staff,  a  major  general  who  was  the  mili- 
tary's chief  administrator.  The  General  Headquarters  was  staffed 
with  a  coordinating  staff,  J- 1  through  J-9,  and  a  special  staff.  Coor- 
dinating staff  officers  included  deputies  for  personnel,  intelligence, 
operations,  logistics,  plans,  comptroller,  civil-military  operations, 
and  education  and  training.  Also  subordinate  to  the  chief  of  staff 
were  the  various  specified  and  support  commands  and  area  uni- 
fied commands  (see  fig.  10). 

Throughout  the  country,  the  regionally  based  area  unified  com- 
mands exercised  operational  control  over  AFP  units  of  all  services 
deployed  in  their  regions.  AFP  General  Headquarters  created  six 
area  commands  in  1987  and  1988  by  combining  the  thirteen  region- 
al unified  commands  that  had  been  formed  in  1983.  Area  com- 
mand boundaries  were  defined  by  the  country's  numbered  political 
regions  (see  fig.  9).  Northern  Luzon  Command  incorporated 
regions  1,  2  and  3;  Southern  Luzon  Command  encompassed  region 
4  (except  Palawan)  and  region  5;  Visayas  Command  covered  the 
Visayan  Islands  in  regions  6,  7,  and  8;  and  Southern  Command 
incorporated  the  island  of  Mindanao  and  the  Sulu  Archipelago, 
regions  9  through  12.  The  AFP's  Western  Command  was  responsi- 
ble for  the  province  of  Palawan  (part  of  region  4)  and  for  Philippine 


262 


National  Security 


claims  in  the  Spratly  Islands.  The  sixth  area  command,  the  Na- 
tional Capital  Region  Command,  had  operational  control  over  mili- 
tary units  in  metropolitan  Manila.  Area  commanders  directed 
counterinsurgency  operations  in  their  respective  areas,  but  sup- 
port functions — such  as  training  and  logistics — were  left  to  the  mili- 
tary support  services  and  joint  commands  such  as  the  AFP's 
Logistics  Command  and  Training  Command. 

The  armed  forces  maintained  several  military  training  institu- 
tions in  1991.  Foremost  among  these  was  the  Philippine  Military 
Academy,  founded  in  1905  to  train  Filipino  officers  for  the  Philip- 
pine Constabulary.  Located  at  Fort  del  Pilar,  Baguio,  the  acade- 
my trained  future  officers  of  all  four  services.  Male  cadets  between 
the  ages  of  seventeen  and  twenty-three  were  selected  through  a  high- 
ly competitive  examination  for  a  four-year  course,  patterned  on 
the  United  States  Military  Academy,  leading  to  a  bachelor  of  science 
degree  and  an  officer's  commission.  Attrition  took  a  heavy  toll. 
Only  about  100  of  the  400  cadets  admitted  each  year  completed 
the  course.  Graduates  were  given  their  choice  of  service  within  es- 
tablished quota  limits,  with  preference  given  to  those  with  the 
highest  class  standing.  The  Philippine  Constabulary  was  most  often 
a  cadet's  first  choice,  reflecting  the  potential  for  developing  sup- 
plementary income  and  local  influence  that  came  with  the  job. 
Officers  assigned  to  the  navy  and  air  force  usually  attended  orien- 
tation courses  before  being  assigned  to  their  units. 

Reserve  officers  were  trained  under  the  Citizen  Military  Train- 
ing system,  formerly  known  as  the  Reserve  Officer  Training  Corps. 
Basic  military  training  under  this  system  was  mandatory  for  all 
high  school  students.  Male  college  students  were  required  to  take 
additional  basic  training  and  had  the  option  of  advanced  training 
leading  to  a  reserve  officer's  commission.  A  small  number  of  Citizen 
Military  Training  graduates  were  integrated  into  the  regular  officer 
corps.  Women  were  commissioned  into  the  Women's  Auxiliary 
Corps  of  one  of  the  services  following  training  at  selected  univer- 
sities. Officer  Candidate  School  was  a  third  source  of  commissions. 
Candidates  were  required  to  have  a  bachelor's  degree  and  were 
accepted  from  the  enlisted  ranks  and  the  civilian  sector.  In  the  late 
1980s,  women  were  admitted  with  men  to  this  one-year  program 
taught  at  the  AFP's  Training  Command  at  Camp  Capinpin,  near 
Manila,  in  Rizal  Province. 

Career  training  for  officers  was  patterned  after  that  in  the  Unit- 
ed States.  The  AFP's  Command  and  General  Staff  College  pre- 
pared officers  of  all  services  for  command,  staff,  and  managerial 
positions  normally  assigned  to  field- grade  officers.  Only  25  per- 
cent of  mid- grade  officers  were  chosen  to  attend  the  eight-month 


263 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


AFP-WIDE  SUPPORT 
AND  SEPARATE  UNITS 


MAJOR  SERVICES 


PHILIPPINE 
ARMY 


PHILIPPINE 
CONSTABULARY 


AREA  COMMANDS 

~1 — 


NORTHERN 

LUZON 
COMMAND 


PHILIPPINE 
AIR  FORCE 


PHILIPPINE 
NAVY 


SOUTHERN 

LUZON 
COMMAND 


VISAYAS 
COMMAND 


NATIONAL  CAPITAL 
REGION  COMMAND 

WESTERN 
COMMAND 


SOUTHERN 
COMMAND 


Disbanded  January  1, 1991,  in  favor  of  a  civilian  Philippine  National  Police. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States,  Allied  Army  Training  Study  of  the  Republic 
of  the  Philippines,  Fort  Monroe,  Virginia,  1989,  60. 


Figure  10.  Organization  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines  (AFP),  1989 


264 


National  Security 


cause  at  Fort  Bonifacio  in  Manila.  The  National  Defense  College, 
also  at  Fort  Bonifacio,  was  the  military's  senior  education  institu- 
tion. A  select  group  of  senior  officers  and  government  officials  at- 
tended a  course  given  each  year  at  the  college  and  received  master's 
degrees  in  national  security  administration.  The  curriculum  was 
designed  to  provide  the  broad  perspective  necessary  for  national 
policy  making. 

Acknowledging  systemic  weaknesses,  the  AFP  undertook  several 
programs  to  upgrade  training  in  the  late  1980s.  To  improve  man- 
agement of  the  training  system,  training  staffs  were  established  in 
the  AFP's  General  Headquarters  and  added  to  service  and  unified 
command  staffs  in  1988.  The  Training  Command  was  organized 
at  Camp  Capinpin.  In  addition  to  conducting  a  variety  of  train- 
ing for  enlisted  personnel,  noncommissioned  officers  (NCOs),  and 
officers,  the  Training  Command  was  charged  with  developing  in- 
struction and  standardizing  common  training  among  the  services. 

Army 

The  Philippine  army  was  formally  organized  in  1936  after  the 
United  States  accorded  the  Philippines  commonwealth  status  in 
1935,  but  it  traced  its  origins  to  the  rebel  forces  established  in  1896 
to  fight  for  national  independence.  The  army  was  intended  to  be 
a  small  standing  army  modeled  on  the  United  States  Army,  but 
army  strength  varied  widely  over  the  years,  depending  on  the  in- 
ternal threat.  After  dramatic  growth  during  the  1970s,  total  army 
strength  remained  relatively  stable  during  the  1980s.  With  some 
68,000  troops  in  1990,  the  army  was  by  far  the  largest  of  the  ser- 
vices. The  commanding  general,  a  major  general,  directiy  controlled 
the  service's  administrative,  logistics,  and  training  functions  from 
headquarters  at  Fort  Bonifacio  in  Manila,  but  area  unified  com- 
mands exercised  operational  control  over  nearly  all  combat  units. 
Army  units  were  actively  involved  in  the  fight  against  the  com- 
munist insurgency  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  monitored  the  mostly 
dormant  Muslim  rebellion. 

The  army's  major  tactical  units  were  its  eight  light  infantry  di- 
visions. Three  divisions  were  headquartered  on  the  northern  Is- 
land of  Luzon,  two  were  based  in  the  central  Visayan  Islands,  and 
three  operated  on  the  southern  island  of  Mindanao.  All  except  one 
consisted  of  three  brigades,  and  that  one  had  two  brigades.  Although 
the  army's  overall  strength  did  not  change,  during  the  late  1980s 
it  was  structurally  expanded,  from  the  four  divisions  that  had  ex- 
isted since  1983  to  eight  in  1990.  The  basic  maneuver  unit  was 
the  infantry  battalion.  Although  authorized  to  contain  some  600 
soldiers,  battalions  typically  had  500  troops  or  fewer  assigned. 


265 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


In  addition  to  these  infantry  formations,  the  army  had  a  light 
armored  brigade,  eight  artillery  battalions,  three  engineer  brigades, 
and  a  construction  battalion.  Support  units  included  a  service  sup- 
port brigade,  a  training  command,  a  signal  group,  an  intelligence 
and  security  group,  a  civil-military  operations  battalion,  and  a 
finance  center.  The  elite  army  Scout  Ranger  regiment,  a  special- 
ized counterinsurgency  force,  was  disbanded  following  its  partici- 
pation in  the  1989  coup  attempt. 

The  army's  weapons  were  appropriate  to  its  light  infantry  force 
structure  and  counterinsurgency  mission  (see  table  19,  Appendix). 
Major  items  included  41  light  tanks,  85  armored  infantry  fighting 
vehicles,  285  armored  personnel  carriers,  and  assorted  light  and 
medium  towed  artillery.  Most  arms  and  equipment  were  of  Unit- 
ed States  make  or  design,  although  sources  of  weapons  and  sup- 
plies had  diversified  since  the  1970s.  The  standard  infantry  weapon 
was  the  United  States  M-16A1  rifle,  manufactured  in  the  Philip- 
pines under  a  license  agreement. 

The  army  operated  a  variety  of  schools  for  its  arms  and  branches. 
The  Army  Training  Command  was  located  at  Fort  Magsaysay  in 
Nueva  Ecija,  north  of  Manila.  The  training  command  provided 
basic  training  for  enlisted  personnel  and  officers  and  advanced  train- 
ing in  some  specialties  such  as  infantry  and  artillery.  Specialized 
training  in  other  areas,  such  as  armor,  intelligence,  and  engineer- 
ing, was  the  responsibility  of  service  extension  schools  operated  by 
the  commanders  of  those  army  units.  Many  soldiers,  however, 
never  attended  centralized  military  schools,  but  instead  were  trained 
by  army  divisions  at  basic  training  centers  throughout  the  country. 

Navy 

The  navy,  the  newest  of  the  services,  traces  its  ancestry  to  the 
Offshore  Patrol,  which  was  formed  as  part  of  the  army  in  Febru- 
ary 1939.  It  became  autonomous  and  was  redesignated  the  Philip- 
pine Naval  Patrol  in  1947.  After  the  armed  forces  reorganized  in 
1950,  the  force  became  known  as  the  navy.  Naval  personnel  strength 
of  approximately  25,000  in  1990  included  marine,  coast  guard,  and 
naval  air  units.  Naval  headquarters  was  in  Manila,  close  to  its  major 
base  at  Cavite,  south  of  the  city.  Other  major  naval  bases  were 
located  in  Zamboanga  City,  Cebu  City,  and  at  Subic  Bay  on  Lu- 
zon, west  of  Manila.  The  Subic  Bay  facility,  probably  without  peer 
as  a  deep-water  port  in  the  region,  was  used  almost  exclusively  by 
the  United  States  Navy. 

The  navy's  principal  mission  was  to  protect  and  police  the  na- 
tion's 7,100  islands  with  a  combined  coastiine  of  36,289  kilome- 
ters, double  that  of  the  United  States,  and  the  Philippines'  claimed 


266 


National  Security 


exclusive  economic  zone  (EEZ — see  Glossary)  of  200  nautical  miles. 
The  navy  also  had  important  support  missions  for  the  other  armed 
forces  and  agencies  of  the  government,  especially  in  transporting 
troops  and  equipment  between  islands.  It  occasionally  joined  with 
other  services  in  conducting  joint  operations  and  amphibious  as- 
saults. Through  its  subordinate  coast  guard  arm,  the  navy  was 
responsible  for  enforcement  of  maritime  laws  and  regulations  and 
countering  widespread  smuggling,  poaching,  and  pirating  in  Philip- 
pine waters,  including  interception  of  covert  supply  lines  to  insur- 
gent groups.  The  navy  was  hard-pressed  to  fulfill  its  broad 
responsibilities;  senior  naval  officers  candidly  admitted  that  the  fleet 
was  too  small  and  ill-maintained  to  patrol  its  large  coastline  and 
EEZ  effectively  and  to  protect  the  Philippine  claim  to  Kalayaan. 

The  navy  was  commanded  by  a  rear  admiral,  known  as  the  flag 
officer  in  command,  who  was  supported  by  vice  and  deputy  flag 
officers  in  command.  Major  naval  operating  forces  came  under 
the  commander  of  the  fleet,  who  directed  the  naval  air,  special 
warfare,  assault  craft,  amphibious,  and  patrol  groups.  The  navy 
also  maintained  six  naval  districts  that  supervised  deployed  naval 
forces  under  the  operational  control  of  the  area  unified  commanders. 
The  naval  headquarters  controlled  the  training  command,  coast 
guard  and  marine  commands,  and  the  naval  support  group,  all 
of  which  provided  supply  and  maintenance  support  to  the  fleet. 

All  major  combatants  in  the  fleet  were  former  United  States  ships, 
most  of  World  War  II  vintage.  In  late  1989,  the  navy  maintained 
three  frigates  and  eleven  corvettes,  none  with  missiles  (see  table 
20,  Appendix).  Consistent  with  the  navy's  mission,  the  mainstays 
of  the  fleet  were  patrol  boats,  including  twelve  coastal  and  thirty- 
nine  inshore  patrol  craft.  The  navy  also  used  eleven  amphibious 
ships  and  some  seventy-five  landing  craft  for  inter-island  transport. 

Many  of  the  navy's  ships,  however,  were  in  poor  repair  and  of 
questionable  operational  capability.  Roughly  one-third  of  the  ships 
were  said  to  be  serviceable,  and  only  about  twenty  of  them  put 
to  sea  regularly.  Because  of  these  operational  deficiencies,  which 
the  navy  attributed  to  budget  shortfalls,  the  navy  embarked  on  a 
modernization  program  in  1990.  Plans  called  for  the  overhaul  of 
some  ships  and  for  the  acquisition  of  thirty-five  new  patrol  craft. 
Several  older  ships,  including  four  frigates,  had  been  decommis- 
sioned in  the  late  1980s,  and  more  retirements  of  inoperable  ships 
were  planned. 

The  coast  guard,  established  in  1967,  was  the  navy's  law  en- 
forcement arm.  Its  responsibilities  included  testing  and  licensing 
seamen  and  vessels,  providing  navigational  aids,  and  protecting 
life  and  property  at  sea.  To  fulfill  these  missions,  the  coast  guard 


267 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

operated  nearly  ninety  small  patrol  boats  and  conducted  search  and 
rescue  operations  with  two  larger  boats,  a  fixed- wing  aircraft,  and 
a  helicopter.  In  1990  the  coast  guard  commander,  a  navy  commo- 
dore, supervised  some  2,000  personnel  and  eight  operational  dis- 
tricts. 

Although  the  marine  corps  mission  was  to  conduct  amphibious 
operations,  in  practice  the  marines  generally  were  employed  in  as- 
sisting the  army  and  constabulary  in  counterinsurgency  operations 
against  the  Moros  and  communists.  The  service  was  commanded 
by  the  marine  commandant,  a  brigadier  general,  and  headquar- 
tered at  Fort  Bonifacio  in  Manila.  The  marine  corps  grew  modesdy 
during  the  1980s;  strength  in  1990  was  about  8,000  troops,  up  from 
6,800  troops  in  1983.  The  marine  corps  organization  grew  com- 
mensurately,  from  two  brigades  to  four.  The  ten  marine  battal- 
ions were  equipped  with  a  variety  of  mostly  United  States-made 
equipment,  including  amphibious  vehicles,  armored  personnel  car- 
riers, and  howitzers.  Their  performance  in  counterinsurgency  oper- 
ations had  earned  marines  the  reputation  for  being  a  well-disciplined 
and  well-respected  force,  but  their  support  of  Marcos  in  1986  and 
involvement  in  a  subsequent  coup  attempt  against  Aquino  tarnished 
the  marines'  image. 

Air  Force 

Traditionally,  the  air  force's  primary  mission  was  air  defense 
of  the  nation.  In  the  mid-1980s,  however,  the  air  force  shifted  its 
principal  effort  to  supporting  the  ground  forces  in  counterinsur- 
gency operations,  using  both  fixed- wing  aircraft  and  helicopters. 
The  air  force's  other  roles  included  search  and  rescue,  transporta- 
tion, and  communications  for  all  services.  The  Air  Force  Security 
Command  (formerly  the  Aviation  Security  Command)  was  respon- 
sible for  security  of  the  nation's  airports.  The  air  force  regularly 
took  part  in  disaster  relief  and  emergency  operations  in  coopera- 
tion with  civilian  organizations  and  participated  in  national  develop- 
ment programs. 

The  air  force  was  headquartered  at  Villamor  Air  Base  (former- 
ly called  Nichols  Air  Base)  in  Manila  and  was  commanded  by  a 
two-star  general.  Other  major  bases  included  Basa  and  Clark  air 
bases  in  Pampanga  Province,  Fernando  Air  Base  in  Batangas 
Province,  Sangley  Point  Air  Base  in  Cavite  Province,  and  Mac- 
tan  Air  Base  in  Cebu  Province.  Flight  training  was  conducted  at 
the  Air  Force  Flying  School  located  at  Fernando  Air  Base.  Clark 
Air  Base  in  Central  Luzon  was  used  primarily  by  United  States 
forces  based  or  training  there.  Although  normally  based  at  one  of 
these  facilities,  aircraft,  especially  helicopters,  routinely  operated 


268 


National  Security 


out  of  forward  bases  throughout  the  country  in  support  of  area  com- 
mands' counterinsurgency  operations.  With  approximately  15,500 
officers  and  enlisted  personnel,  the  air  force  was  slightly  smaller 
in  1990  than  in  the  early  1980s,  when  personnel  totaled  16,800. 

The  air  force  inventory  in  1990  included  fifteen  combat  aircraft 
and  seventy-one  armed  helicopters,  all  United  States-made  (see  table 
21,  Appendix).  In  1987,  the  Philippines  grounded  its  fleet  of  F-8 
Crusaders,  leaving  only  two  squadrons  of  F-5  Freedom  Fighters 
to  provide  air  defense.  The  fighters  were  armed  with  United  States- 
made  AIM-9B  Sidewinder  missiles.  Counterinsurgency  operations 
were  supported  by  a  squadron  of  eight  T-28D  Trojan  propeller- 
driven  trainer/attack  airplanes,  and  a  wing  equipped  with  fifty-five 
Bell  UH-IH/Iroquois  transport  helicopters  and  sixteen  AUH-76 
attack  helicopters. 

Support  units  included  seven  transport  squadrons;  three  train- 
ing squadrons;  a  presidential  airlift  wing;  and  assorted  reconnais- 
sance, search  and  rescue,  and  liaison  aircraft.  Aircraft  assigned  to 
these  elements  were  obtained  from  many  countries,  including  Brit- 
ain, Australia,  Italy,  and  the  Netherlands  as  well  as  the  United 
States.  In  1990  the  air  force  expanded  its  capabilities  by  acquiring 
a  variety  of  new  aircraft.  The  Philippines  received  four  Italian  S-21 1 
jet  trainers  and  contracted  for  delivery  of  fourteen  more.  In  addi- 
tion, the  air  force  was  to  receive  twenty-nine  United  States-made 
MD-520  attack  helicopters  and  hoped  to  upgrade  its  fighter  fleet 
with  the  purchase  of  two  squadrons  of  more  modern  fighters. 

Philippine  Constabulary 

The  Philippine  Constabulary,  which  was  to  be  disbanded  and 
absorbed  into  a  civilian  police  force  beginning  in  1991,  was  the 
oldest  of  the  nation's  four  armed  forces.  It  was  established  by  the 
United  States  colonial  government  in  1901  to  preserve  peace  and 
order  and  provided  the  nucleus  of  the  first  regular  division  of  the 
Commonwealth's  army  in  1936.  It  remained  an  element  within 
the  army  (after  1946  as  the  Military  Police  Command)  until  1950 
when  it  was  reestablished  as  a  separate  force.  It  was  formally  re- 
named the  Philippine  Constabulary  in  1959. 

After  its  renaming,  the  Philippine  Constabulary  officially  con- 
stituted a  national  police  force  and  essentially  operated  as  a  gen- 
darmerie, holding  primary  authority  for  law  enforcement  and 
domestic  security.  It  was  responsible  for  dealing  with  large-scale 
crime,  conducting  wide-area  operations,  and  enforcing  the  peace 
and  national  laws,  especially  in  remote  areas  where  other  forces 
were  nonexistent  or  ineffective.  The  constabulary  also  played  a 
prominent  role  in  combating  the  Moro  and  communist  insurgencies. 


269 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Following  the  creation  of  the  Integrated  National  Police  in  1975, 
the  constabulary  operated  with  the  new  force  under  a  joint  com- 
mand structure  (see  Law  Enforcement,  this  ch.). 

Organized  and  equipped  along  military  lines,  the  constabulary 
was  headed  in  1990  by  a  major  general,  who  served  concurrently 
as  the  director  general  of  the  Integrated  National  Police.  He  was 
assisted  by  deputies  for  the  Philippine  Constabulary  and  Integrat- 
ed National  Police,  and  by  his  Camp  Crame,  Manila,  headquar- 
ters staff,  which  was  similar  to  the  AFP's  General  Headquarters 
staff.  Constabulary  forces  throughout  the  country  were  supported 
and  controlled  through  a  system  of  regional  commands,  with  one 
command  in  each  of  the  country's  twelve  political  regions.  Under 
the  operational  control  of  the  area  commands,  the  regional  com- 
mands controlled  subordinate  Philippine  Constabulary  and  In- 
tegrated National  Police  provincial  commands.  These  73  provincial 
headquarters  in  turn  supervised  234  constabulary  companies,  which 
were  the  constabulary's  line  units.  Regional  Special  Action  Com- 
panies provided  backup  to  the  line  companies  and  acted  as  coun- 
terinsurgency  strike  forces.  An  additional  area  command,  known 
both  as  Capital  Command  and  the  Metropolitan  Police  Force, 
directed  Philippine  Constabulary  and  Integrated  National  Police 
elements  in  Manila.  Metropolitan  District  Commands  performed 
a  similar  function  in  eight  of  the  nation's  other  major  urban  areas. 

The  constabulary  also  had  a  variety  of  specialized  units  with  na- 
tionwide responsibilities  that  operated  independently  of  the  regional 
command  system.  These  included  the  Criminal  Investigative  Ser- 
vice, Highway  Patrol  Group,  Security  Group,  Crime  Lab,  and  Sup- 
port Command.  The  Philippine  Constabulary  Training  Command 
was  responsible  for  instructing  enlisted  constables  and  their  officers, 
whose  training  paralleled  that  of  the  army.  In  1983  the  constabu- 
lary created  an  elite  national  reaction  force,  the  Philippine  Con- 
stabulary Special  Action  Force,  with  the  capability  to  combat 
terrorism,  hijacking,  and  insurgency.  These  additions  contribut- 
ed to  the  overall  growth  of  members  of  the  constabulary  during 
the  1980s,  from  approximately  33,500  in  1980,  to  an  estimated 
45,000  members  in  1990. 

On  January  1,  1991,  the  Philippine  Constabulary  and  the  In- 
tegrated National  Police  were  combined  to  form  the  Philippine  Na- 
tional Police.  The  Philippine  National  Police  took  immediate 
responsibility  for  most  former  Integrated  National  Police  functions, 
including  fire  and  jail  services,  and  was  to  assume  responsibility 
for  the  counterinsurgency  effort  from  the  AFP  after  two  years,  in 
1993.  Few  details  were  available  at  the  end  of  1990  on  how  the 


270 


National  Security 


military  planned  to  effect  the  transfer  of  police  and,  ultimately, 
counterinsurgency  responsibilities  to  civilian  control. 

Reserves  and  Auxiliaries 

The  Philippine  reserve  program  was  founded  on  the  citizen  army 
concept  laid  out  in  the  National  Defense  Act  of  1935,  whereby 
defense  would  be  provided  by  a  limited  professional  cadre  backed 
by  citizen  reservists  rather  than  by  a  large  conscript  army.  In  1989 
the  AFP  claimed  that  active  forces  of  about  153,500  people  were 
backed  by  some  800,000  reservists.  However,  this  number  proba- 
bly included  all  eligible  former  soldiers,  many  of  whom  might  be 
difficult  to  recall.  Other  sources  placed  total  reserve  strength  at 
128,000— approximately  100,000  in  the  army,  12,000  in  the  navy, 
and  16,000  in  the  air  force.  Only  a  small  fraction  of  these — less 
than  50,000 — were  thought  to  be  actively  involved  in  the  reserve 
program. 

The  AFP  reserve  program  was  administered  by  an  element  of 
the  General  Headquarters  staff,  within  the  office  of  civil-military 
operations.  Reserve  forces  fell  into  two  major  categories:  Auxil- 
iary Reserve  Units  and  Citizens  Armed  Forces  Geographic  Units 
(CAFGUs).  Reservists  of  the  first  category  were  predesignated 
civilians  in  critical  public  sector  jobs,  such  as  electric  power  and 
water  service,  who  were  subject  to  federal  mobilization.  They  had 
no  military  training  and  were  not  intended  to  support  military  oper- 
ations directly  in  the  event  of  a  call-up. 

The  CAFGUs  consisted  of  both  inactive  military  reserve  forces 
and  militia  units  actively  involved  in  counterinsurgency.  Each  ser- 
vice had  its  own  inactive  CAFGU  reserve  component.  On  paper, 
the  army  had  thirteen  divisions  of  CAFGU  reservists,  one  in  each 
political  region,  including  Manila.  These  units,  however,  never 
trained  nor  even  conducted  organizational  meetings.  Instead, 
Regional  Community  Defense  Units — which  administered  the 
Citizen  Military  Training  program — maintained  rosters  of  individu- 
al reservists.  A  few  reserve  officers  participated  at  their  own  ex- 
pense in  annual  training,  but  there  was  no  individual  training  for 
enlisted  reservists. 

CAFGU  active  auxiliaries — essentially  militia  who  provided  for 
village  self-defense — were  the  heart  of  the  reserve  program.  Un- 
der the  direct  control  of  the  active  military,  they  replaced  the 
Marcos-era  Civilian  Home  Defense  Force,  a  poorly  trained  and 
equipped  force  widely  criticized  as  being  corrupt  and  abusive.  Mem- 
bers of  the  active  CAFGUs  were  full-time  militia  who  were  recruited 
and  based  in  their  home  areas,  where  they  were  charged  with 
defending  against  insurgent  attacks.  CAFGU  companies  were 


271 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


trained  and  commanded  by  active  officers  and  NCOs  of  the  army 
and  constabulary.  If  mobilized,  the  militia  were  to  become  part 
of  their  sponsoring  active  army  or  constabulary  unit.  The  720 
CAFGU  active  auxiliary  companies  had  around  64,000  members 
in  1990. 

Other  armed  groups,  labeled  vigilantes,  were  sometimes  spon- 
sored or  endorsed  by  the  military.  Aquino  initially  praised  some 
of  these  anticommunist  citizens'  groups — such  as  Davao  City's  Alsa 
Masa  (Masses  Arise) — for  their  success  at  discouraging  communist 
insurgent  activity  in  their  neighborhoods  during  the  late  1980s.  In 
1988,  however,  an  international  human  rights  group  charged  that 
Philippine  vigilantes  had  committed  "grave  violations  on  a  wide 
scale."  Armed  forces-sponsored  self-defense  groups  who  were  un- 
armed were  not  so  controversial.  These  civilian  volunteer  organi- 
zations, including  Bantay  Bayan  (Nation  Watch),  supported  the 
military  by  reporting  insurgent  activity  in  their  barangays. 

Uniforms,  Ranks,  and  Insignia 

The  rank  structure  of  the  armed  forces  in  the  early  1990s  was 
very  similar  to  that  of  counterpart  services  in  the  United  States. 
There  were,  however,  no  warrant  officer  ranks  in  any  of  the  four 
armed  forces,  and  all  four  services  maintained  seven  enlisted  grades 
rather  than  nine  as  in  the  United  States  system.  The  army,  air  force, 
and  constabulary  used  the  same  ranks  and  insignia.  Officer  ranks 
corresponded  to  their  United  States  counterparts,  except  that  naval 
flag  officers  were  called  commodores  and  admirals  but  were  equiva- 
lent to  United  States  Navy  rear  admirals.  The  single  full  general 
in  the  nation  in  1990  was  a  constabulary  officer  who  had  received 
his  fourth  star  by  virtue  of  his  position  as  the  AFP  chief  of  staff. 
Likewise,  the  AFP  vice  chief  of  staff  was  the  only  lieutenant  general, 
and  the  four  service  chiefs  were  major  generals  or  equivalent.  The 
military  had  some  100  general  officers.  AFP  uniforms  reflected  the 
military's  close  ties  to  the  United  States  and  the  Philippines'  hot, 
humid  climate.  Field  uniforms  for  all  services  were  a  mixture  of 
American-style  olive-drab  and  camouflage  jungle  fatigues.  Because 
of  chronic  uniform  shortages,  military  personnel  often  wore  civilian 
clothes,  making  armed  soldiers  difficult  to  distinguish  from  militia, 
insurgents,  vigilantes,  or  members  of  private  security  forces.  Dress 
uniforms  were  similar  to  those  worn  by  United  States  forces,  made 
of  summer-weight  tan  or  white  fabric  (see  figs.  11  and  12). 

Salary  and  Benefits 

Pay  was  poor  but  fairly  competitive  with  the  civilian  economy 
and  the  standard  of  living  of  the  average  Filipino,  ensuring  that 


272 


National  Security 


the  AFP  never  lacked  sufficient  volunteers.  Still,  many  soldiers  lived 
at  or  below  the  poverty  line.  The  average  private  made  the  equiva- 
lent of  about  US$50  a  month,  and  not  even  senior  officers  could 
afford  to  live  lavishly  on  their  salary  alone.  In  apparent  recogni- 
tion of  the  impact  of  poor  pay  on  military  morale,  Aquino  autho- 
rized additional  benefits  and  a  pay  increase  that  averaged  60  percent 
in  the  wake  of  the  1987  coup  attempt.  Benefits  included  housing, 
medical  and  dental  care,  commissary  privileges,  insurance,  death 
benefits,  and  a  retirement  plan  for  service  of  twenty  to  thirty  years. 

Foreign  Military  Relations 

The  Philippines  maintained  its  closest  military  relations  with  the 
United  States.  Close  contacts  were  based  on  cooperative  ventures, 
such  as  joint  exercises,  and  on  longstanding  military  links.  Mili- 
tary relations  were  first  established  in  the  colonial  era  when  the 
United  States  helped  the  Philippines  to  develop  its  military.  The 
United  States  and  the  Philippines  maintained  their  relationship  as 
allies  during  World  War  II  and  the  postwar  period.  Most  Philip- 
pine military  institutions  were  modeled  after  United  States  coun- 
terparts, and  the  United  States  remained  the  AFP's  principal 
benefactor  in  1990,  providing  substantial  funds  and  training.  For- 
mal relations  between  the  armed  forces  of  the  two  countries  were 
based  on  two  agreements:  the  1947  Military  Bases  Agreement, 
which  provided  for  United  States  facilities  in  the  Philippines,  and 
the  1951  Mutual  Defense  Treaty  Between  the  Republic  of  the 
Philippines  and  the  United  States  of  America. 

Under  the  Mutual  Defense  Treaty,  the  Philippines  and  the  Unit- 
ed States  each  agreed  that  "an  armed  attack  in  the  Pacific  Area 
on  either  of  the  Parties  would  be  dangerous  to  its  own  peace  and 
safety."  Both  nations  pledged  that  in  such  an  event  each  "would 
act  to  meet  the  common  danger  in  accordance  with  its  constitu- 
tional processes."  The  United  States  government  guaranteed  to 
defend  the  security  of  the  Philippines  against  external  aggression 
but  not  necessarily  against  internal  subversion.  The  treaty  was  the 
basis  for  an  annual  joint  exercise,  known  as  Balikatan,  between 
the  two  nations. 

Signed  in  1947  by  the  government  of  the  newly  independent 
Philippines,  the  Military  Bases  Agreement  originally  provided  the 
United  States  with  ninety-nine  years  of  access.  Almost  from  the 
beginning,  however,  several  Military  Bases  Agreement-related  is- 
sues were  the  subject  of  controversy  in  the  Philippines,  arousing 
sometimes  strident  opposition  to  the  presence  of  United  States  bases. 
Some  Filipinos  saw  the  facilities  as  an  infringement  on  Philippine 
sovereignty  and  a  vestige  of  the  country's  colonial  past.  Some  also 


273 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


(04444 


(04444 


uj  o 


0  444 


1- 

Z  -I 

Z  -1 

<  < 

<  < 

z  cc 

LU  UJ 

z  oc 

UJ  UJ 

H  Z 

Z)  LU 

55 

UJ  O 

uj  o 

_i 

(o  444 


Z  — i 

<  < 

Z  DC 
LU  LU 
I—  Z 
D  LU 
LU  (5 


UJ  nr 

< 


>  o 


0  44 


01  $ 

O  a: 
^  UJ 

<  z 

2  LU 

o 


oc  < 

O  DC 
T  UJ 

<  z 

(3 


(O  44 


cc  < 
OS 


<  z 

2  LU 
O 


OC  Q 

< 


0  44 


! 

UJ 
DC  Dl 
<  £L 


^  _J 

LU  < 

Q  DC 

<  LU 

(3  Z 

£3 


11  _l 

< 

Q  DC 
<  LU 
CD  Z 


oc  § 


Z  -J 

<  LU 

z  z 

uj  O 


<  UJ 

z  z 
uj  O 


Z  — I 

<  LU 

z  z 

uj  O 


-1 

UJ  < 

§§ 

-J  o 


ID 


UJ  < 

p 

-1  o 


S  -S 

I* 
I  I 


n 


:  si  ,w 
i 

!z  ' 


Z  CO 
<  UJ 


1  = 

<o 


3  w 

<  UJ 

OC  rJ 


<0CL 
ZOC 
LU5« 


Z  CO 
<  UJ 
DC  — 1 


274 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

charged  that  the  agreement's  rules  on  criminal  jurisdiction  shield- 
ed United  States  military  personnel  from  Philippine  law  and  that 
the  economic  and  military  aid  provided  by  the  United  States  as 
compensation  was  inadequate.  Finally,  opponents  blamed  the  Unit- 
ed States  military  for  conditions  in  towns  around  the  facilities,  which 
were  notorious  for  their  red-light  districts  and  consequent  social 
problems. 

Amendments  to  the  text  of  the  Military  Bases  Agreement  ad- 
dressed some  Philippine  concerns  but  did  not  quell  opposition  al- 
together. A  1959  amendment  shortened  the  duration  of  the 
agreement  with  a  proviso  that  either  party  could  terminate  the 
agreement  with  one  year's  notice  after  1991 .  Amendments  in  1965 
revised  legal  jurisdiction  in  criminal  and  civil  matters.  After  long 
and  difficult  negotiations  in  the  late  1970s,  the  agreement  again 
was  amended  in  1979  to  reaffirm  Philippine  sovereignty  over  the 
bases,  ensure  the  United  States  unhampered  access  to  the  facili- 
ties, and  provide  for  a  thorough  review  of  the  agreement  every  five 
years.  The  first  review,  in  1983,  resulted  in  several  further  con- 
cessions to  Philippine  demands  for  increased  sovereignty.  The  Unit- 
ed States  also  pledged  its  best  efforts  to  provide  the  Philippines  with 
US$900  million  in  economic  and  military  aid  over  the  next  five 
years  (1984-88),  up  from  US$500  million  over  the  previous  five 
years.  The  seven  months  of  negotiation  during  the  1988  Military 
Bases  Agreement  review  were  highly  contentious.  The  United  States 
agreed  to  increase  efforts  to  provide  the  Philippines  with  US$481 
million  in  aid  annually  over  the  two  remaining  years  of  the  agree- 
ment's fixed  term. 

In  1990  Philippine  and  United  States  representatives  began  a 
new  round  of  negotiations  on  the  future  of  United  States  bases. 
The  1987  constitution  states  that  a  treaty  approved  by  the  Philip- 
pine Senate  is  necessary  for  foreign  bases  to  remain  in  the  country 
after  1991.  Only  a  few  of  the  twenty-two  original  United  States 
military  facilities  established  in  1947  remained  in  the  Philippines 
in  1990.  The  two  most  important  were  the  Subic  Bay  Naval  Base, 
in  Zambales  Province  (and  the  adjacent  naval  air  station  at  Cubi 
Point),  and  Clark  Air  Base,  a  large  facility  in  Pampanga  Province, 
northwest  of  Manila.  Other  ancillary  facilities  included  John  Hay 
Air  Station  in  Benguet  Province,  San  Miguel  Naval  Communica- 
tions Station  in  Zambales  Province,  and  Wallace  Air  Station  in 
La  Union  Province. 

After  preliminary  talks  in  May  1990,  negotiations  began  in  ear- 
nest in  September  and  were  continued  into  1991 .  Citing  constitu- 
tional requirements  and  the  amended  Military  Bases  Agreement, 
Philippine  negotiators  notified  United  States  officials  early  in  the 


276 


National  Security 


talks  that,  without  a  new  treaty,  United  States  access  to  the  bases 
would  be  terminated  in  1 99 1 .  Philippine  officials  further  stated  that 
their  goal  was  to  reach  agreement  on  United  States  military 
phaseout,  a  move  that  would  satisfy  Philippine  sensitivities  over 
sovereignty.  At  the  same  time,  Philippine  officials  were  anxious 
to  minimize  the  adverse  impact  of  a  United  States  withdrawal  on 
the  bases'  22,000  workers  and  on  the  surrounding  communities. 
Before  the  talks  began,  a  joint  Philippine  executive-legislative  com- 
mission drafted  a  plan  for  the  conversion  of  the  bases  to  Philip- 
pine military  and  commercial  uses.  The  chief  United  States 
negotiator,  meanwhile,  announced  United  States  plans  to  withdraw 
its  air  fighter  wing  at  Clark  Air  Base  as  part  of  an  overall  plan  to 
reduce  forces  in  the  region. 

As  part  of  bases-related  compensation,  the  United  States  con- 
tinued to  provide  financial,  equipment,  and  logistical  support  to 
the  Philippine  military  throughout  the  1980s.  The  effect  of  Unit- 
ed States-supplied  equipment,  training,  and  logistical  support  on 
the  AFP  would  be  difficult  to  overstate.  Most  Philippine  military 
equipment  was  of  United  States  design  or  manufacture,  and,  despite 
growing  self-reliance  and  more  Philippine  purchases  from  other 
countries,  United  States  assistance  provided  for  most  AFP  capital 
procurement.  Also,  the  United  States  had  funded  the  military  edu- 
cation of  more  than  20,000  Filipinos  between  1950  and  1990.  In 
the  late  1980s,  approximately  seventy  officers  and  senior  enlisted 
personnel  studied  at  United  States  military  schools  each  year.  Some 
Filipinos  attended  the  United  States  Military  Academy  at  West 
Point,  and  a  smaller  number  graduated  from  United  States  naval, 
air  force,  and  coast  guard  academies. 

Military  relations  with  regional  neighbors  were  conducted 
primarily  within  the  framework  of  ASEAN.  ASEAN  had  no  defense 
function,  however,  and  its  members  were  committed  to  establish- 
ing a  "zone  of  peace,  freedom,  and  neutrality"  in  the  region.  Out- 
side the  ASEAN  framework,  the  Philippines  conducted  joint 
military  training  exercises  on  a  bilateral  basis  with  some  regional 
neighbors.  In  addition,  members  of  the  Philippine  armed  forces 
trained  in  Australia,  Malaysia,  Thailand,  and  Singapore,  as  well 
as  in  Britain,  Germany,  and  Belgium. 

Intelligence  and  Security  Agencies 

The  period  following  the  overthrow  of  the  Marcos  regime  brought 
important  changes  to  the  Philippines'  intelligence  and  security  struc- 
ture. During  the  martial  law  era  (1972-81),  the  volume  and  scope 
of  government  intelligence  activity  had  greatly  expanded.  The  pre- 
eminent intelligence  agency  was  the  National  Intelligence  and 


277 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Security  Authority,  headed  by  General  Fabian  Ver,  a  close  Mar- 
cos confidant  and  chief  of  staff  of  the  Philippine  armed  forces.  By 
the  end  of  Marcos 's  tenure,  the  National  Intelligence  and  Securi- 
ty Authority  and  the  rest  of  the  country's  intelligence  apparatus 
were  heavily  focused  on  tracking  the  president's  political  opponents. 
Security  agents  were  suspected  of  numerous  human  rights  abuses. 

The  revamp  of  the  nation's  intelligence  system  commenced  with 
Aquino's  rise  to  power.  The  new  government  significantly  curtailed 
intelligence  operations  and  purged  many  of  General  Ver's  opera- 
tives. Drafters  of  the  1987  constitution  installed  legal  safeguards 
against  the  kind  of  abuses  committed  by  the  Marcos  intelligence 
and  security  apparatus.  The  National  Intelligence  and  Security 
Authority,  tainted  by  its  close  association  with  the  deposed  presi- 
dent, was  renamed  the  National  Intelligence  Coordinating  Agen- 
cy and  refocused  its  efforts  away  from  political  opposition  leaders 
to  internal  security  threats,  especially  the  communist  insurgency. 
Notable  intelligence  successes  against  the  communist  rebels  dur- 
ing the  late  1980s  were  an  apparent  result  of  this  reorientation. 
Government  operatives  repeatedly  captured  top  CPP  and  NPA 
cadres,  prompting  devastating  purges  within  the  insurgent  ranks 
as  guerrillas  attempted  to  ferret  out  the  sources  of  intelligence 
penetrations. 

In  1990  Aquino  issued  an  executive  order  authorizing  her  na- 
tional security  adviser  to  oversee  the  National  Intelligence  Coor- 
dinating Agency  and  other  elements  of  the  intelligence  community. 
The  adviser  was  empowered  to  audit  the  agencies  and  was  charged 
with  ensuring  that  they  were  responsive  to  the  needs  of  the  presi- 
dent and  the  National  Security  Council.  The  secretaries  of  national 
defense  and  justice,  whose  departments  performed  intelligence  func- 
tions, were  directed  to  work  with  the  national  security  adviser  to 
fulfill  the  president's  mandate. 

The  Department  of  Justice's  principal  intelligence-gathering  or- 
gan, the  National  Bureau  of  Investigation,  was  formed  in  1936  as 
the  Division  of  Investigation  and  patterned  after  the  United  States 
Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation.  The  bureau's  principal  mission 
was  to  assist  the  Philippine  Constabulary  and  police  in  crime  de- 
tection and  investigation,  freeing  them  to  concentrate  on  main- 
taining peace  and  order.  Collection  of  intelligence  on  internal 
security  threats  was  considered  a  related  function. 

The  Department  of  National  Defense,  meanwhile,  maintained 
an  extensive  intelligence  apparatus.  Although  little  was  publicly 
revealed  about  its  organization  or  operation,  it  was  known  that  the 
military's  principal  intelligence  organ  was  the  Intelligence  Service 
of  the  AFP.  Headed  by  a  brigadier  general,  Intelligence  Service 


278 


National  Security 


units  operated  throughout  the  country.  Their  mission  in  1990 
included  not  only  pursuing  insurgents,  but  also  gathering  infor- 
mation on  military  coup  plotters  and  participants.  The  military 
services,  too,  maintained  their  own  intelligence  arms.  The  regi- 
mental-size Intelligence  and  Security  Group  supported  the  army 
while  the  Constabulary  Security  Group  served  Philippine  Constabu- 
lary leaders.  The  division  of  responsibilities  among  these  military 
intelligence  agencies  and  the  institutional  mechanisms,  if  any,  that 
were  set  up  to  coordinate  their  activities  were  unclear. 

Public  Order  and  Internal  Security 

When  Aquino  assumed  office  in  February  1986,  she  immedi- 
ately began  dismantling  repressive  restrictions  on  civil  and  public 
liberties.  Political  prisoners,  including  top  communist  leaders,  were 
released.  Restrictions  on  the  media's  ability  to  report  freely  and 
to  criticize  the  nation's  leaders  were  removed.  Aquino  also  allowed 
far  greater  freedom  of  political  expression. 

Although  she  enjoyed  broad  public  support,  Aquino  inherited 
a  variety  of  internal  security  threats  from  her  predecessor.  Chief 
among  them  was  the  insurgency  inspired  by  the  CPP  and  its  mili- 
tary arm,  the  NPA.  After  modest  growth  during  the  first  two  years 
of  Aquino's  tenure,  insurgent  strength  waned  in  the  late  1980s. 
Although  communist  guerrillas  remained  active  throughout  most 
of  the  country,  internal  dissension  and  improved  AFP  tactics  had 
reduced  their  threat.  Meanwhile,  Muslim  insurgents  in  the  south 
threatened  to  resume  their  armed  struggle  for  independence  or  au- 
tonomy. A  combination  of  political  maneuvering  within  the  govern- 
ment, continued  Moro  factionalism,  and  decreased  foreign  support, 
however,  reduced  prospects  for  open  rebellion.  By  1990  the  Mus- 
lims, although  locally  active  and  still  a  potent  military  force,  showed 
little  inclination  to  resume  full-scale  conflict. 

Repeated  military  rebellions  and  coup  attempts  constituted  the 
most  pressing  challenge  to  Aquino's  authority.  The  highly  politi- 
cized military  generally  was  seen  as  another  legacy  of  the  Marcos 
regime.  Military  dissidents  exploited  widely  shared  grievances  in 
order  to  recruit  supporters  for  their  rebellions.  These  grievances 
were  at  the  root  of  military  restiveness.  Many  officers  complained 
that  the  Aquino  government  was  insensitive  to  the  military's  con- 
cerns and  that  her  administration  was  corrupt  and  unable  to  lead. 

Aquino  also  faced  a  serious  crime  problem  within  the  Philip- 
pines. A  variety  of  social  and  cultural  factors  contributed  to  the 
problem.  Widespread  poverty  and  the  growing  urbanization  of  the 
nation's  traditionally  rural  society  often  were  cited  as  contributors. 
The  crime  rate  generally  paralleled  the  state  of  the  economy, 


279 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

dramatically  worsening  during  the  mid-1980s  before  improving  at 
decade's  end.  Violence,  long  common  in  Philippine  society,  was 
aggravated  by  insurgency  and  the  prevalence  of  high-powered  fire- 
arms. Drugs  were  a  modest  but  growing  problem,  and  CPP-inspired 
terrorism  against  Philippine  officials,  and  sometimes  Americans, 
escalated  in  the  late- 1980s. 

To  deal  with  criminal  activity,  the  government  focused  on  im- 
proving the  performance  of  the  police  and  the  courts.  Aquino  took 
several  steps  to  remedy  widespread  skepticism  about  the  fairness 
and  effectiveness  of  the  judicial  system.  She  ended  presidential  po- 
litical interference  in  judicial  affairs  and  took  steps  to  speed  the 
sluggish  legal  process  and  reduce  the  logjam  of  court  cases.  Efforts 
to  improve  Integrated  National  Police  discipline  and  professional- 
ism continued,  with  special  attention  given  to  the  perception  that 
police  were  excessively  corrupt  and  abusive. 

The  Communist  Insurgency 

The  Philippine  communist  insurgency  of  the  1990s  was  rooted 
in  the  nation's  history  of  peasant  rebellion.  Rural  revolts — isolated 
and  unsuccessful — were  common  during  the  early  part  of  the  twen- 
tieth century  and  before.  Discontent  among  peasants  over  land 
tenancy  and  growing  population  pressures  inspired  increasing  vio- 
lence in  the  1930s,  especially  in  Central  Luzon  where  isolated 
peasant  rebellions  gave  way  to  better  organized,  sometimes  revolu- 
tionary movements.  After  World  War  II,  tensions  between  peasants 
and  the  government-backed  landlords  grew,  leading  to  the  Huk 
rebellion.  Formerly  anti-Japanese  guerrillas,  the  Huk  (see  Glos- 
sary) fighters  were  associated  with  the  Communist  Party  of  the 
Philippines  (Partido  Kommunista  ng  Pilipinas — PKP),  which  had 
been  established  in  1930.  The  rebellion  waned  during  the  early 
1950s,  but  Huk  supporters  and  the  remnants  of  the  Huk  army  later 
played  important  roles  in  the  founding  of  the  NPA  in  the  late  1960s. 

The  CPP  guerrilla  movement,  the  NPA,  was  a  successor  to  the 
PKP-Huk  actions.  Jose  Maria  Sison  and  a  handful  of  young  revolu- 
tionaries founded  the  CPP — Marxist  Leninist,  now  usually  referred 
to  as  the  CPP,  in  Central  Luzon  on  December  26,  1968.  It  soon 
became  the  core  communist  political  organization,  leaving  just  a 
small  remnant  of  the  original  PKP.  The  NPA  was  formed  the  fol- 
lowing March  with  sixty  former  Huk  fighters.  The  new  party  has 
been  a  result  of  an  internal  schism  in  the  parent  PKP,  created  by 
ideological  differences  and  by  personal  animosity  between  Sison 
and  PKP  leaders.  The  CPP  pursued  a  Maoist-inspired  program 
unlike  the  Soviet-sponsored  PKP.  The  PKP  eventually  renounced 


280 


National  Security 


armed  insurrection  and,  in  1990,  was  an  inconsequential,  quasi- 
legal  political  party  with  about  5,000  members.  The  outlawed  CPP, 
meanwhile,  aggressively  pursued  its  guerrilla  war,  and  in  1990  field- 
ed some  18,000  to  23,000  full-time  insurgents. 

Ideology  and  Strategy 

The  CPP's  ideology  was  taken  largely  from  Chinese  communism 
and  adapted  to  circumstances  in  the  Philippines.  CPP  chairman 
Sison's  writings,  which  drew  heavily  on  Mao  Zedong's  philosophy, 
provided  the  theoretical  basis  for  the  movement.  Chief  among 
them  was  Philippine  Society  and  Revolution,  published  in  1970  under 
the  pseudonym  Amado  Guerrero  and  often  referred  to  as  the 
CPP's  bible.  Sison  characterized  the  Philippines  as  a  semifeudal, 
semicolonial  society  "ruthlessly  exploited"  by  United  States  im- 
perialists, the  "comprador  big  bourgeoisie,"  landlords,  and  bureau- 
cratic capitalists.  Armed  revolution  was  viewed  as  the  only  way 
to  overthrow  the  "United  States-Marcos  regime"  (later  the  "United 
States- Aquino  regime"),  free  the  people  from  their  oppression,  and 
institute  a  people's  democratic  revolution.  This  proletarian  revo- 
lution to  overthrow  the  exploiting  classes  was  to  be  propelled  by 
an  alliance  between  peasants  and  workers. 

Sison's  works  outlined  several  important  strategic  maxims.  The 
revolution  had  to  be  flexible,  adapt  itself  to  local  situations,  and 
employ  self-criticism.  CPP  strategy  emphasized  political  over  mili- 
tary struggle.  The  key  was  to  create  a  broad  national  alliance,  es- 
tablish front  groups,  and  employ  coalitions  to  broaden  support  for 
the  CPP's  revolutionary  struggle.  On  the  military  front,  the  party 
adopted  the  Maoist  principle  of  protracted  people's  war,  attempt- 
ing to  establish  a  strong  rural  base  and  encircle  the  cities  from  the 
countryside.  Finally,  the  CPP's  chairman  emphasized  that  the  revo- 
lution must  exploit  the  country's  fractured  geography  by  spread- 
ing throughout  the  mountainous  island  nation. 

Development  of  the  Revolutionary  Movement 

Sison's  dictums  were  evident  in  the  party's  early  development. 
On  the  theory  that  the  Huks  were  defeated  because  their  uprising 
was  localized,  the  CPP  emphasized  expansion  to  other  regions  of 
Luzon,  and  to  other  islands.  After  several  devastating  routs  by  con- 
centrated AFP  attacks,  in  1974  the  NPA  abandoned  its  early  at- 
tempts to  form  Chinese-style  base  areas.  From  the  CPP's  birthplace 
in  Central  Luzon,  guerrilla  cadres  established  operations  in  remote 
areas  of  Northern  Luzon,  the  Bicol  Peninsula,  Samar  Island,  and 
on  the  southern  island  of  Mindanao.  In  each  of  these  impoverished 
areas,  the  NPA  undertook  to  support  local  residents  in  disputes 


281 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

with  the  central  government,  local  military  and  civilian  officials, 
and  landlords.  In  most  areas,  the  communists  were  able  to  take 
advantage  of  peasant  unrest  over  land  issues  by  embracing  the 
theme  of  land  reform. 

Government  initiatives  did  little  to  check  the  slow,  steady  growth 
of  the  NPA  in  the  1970s.  Sison  and  NPA  chief  Bernabe  Buscay- 
no,  alias  Commander  Dante,  were  arrested,  and  more  than  a  dozen 
CPP  and  NPA  leaders  were  captured  or  killed  during  1976  and 
1977.  The  government  also  mounted  major  anti-insurgency  cam- 
paigns in  Northern  Luzon  and  elsewhere.  Still,  the  communists 
continued  to  broaden  their  base  of  popular  support,  expand  the 
geographical  reach  of  the  movement,  and  escalate  their  attacks  on 
military  and  government  targets.  Several  factors  helped  the  com- 
munists gain  support:  the  NPA's  decentralized  organization,  which 
granted  local  commanders  wide  autonomy;  Philippine  geography, 
which  prevented  easy  access  to  remote  rebel-dominated  areas;  the 
armed  forces'  preoccupation  with  the  Moro  insurgency;  and  the 
continued  appeal  of  the  insurgents'  pledges  to  solve  specific 
grievances  against  the  government  and  provide  a  better  life  for  dis- 
contented Filipinos. 

In  1983  Philippine  officials  estimated  that  the  communists  ex- 
ercised substantial  control  over  2  to  3  percent  of  the  nation's  vil- 
lages and  that  the  NPA  fielded  some  6,000  full-time  guerrillas.  The 
insurgency  grew  rapidly  after  that  year,  largely  as  a  result  of  growing 
political  turmoil  and  increasing  discontent  with  the  Marcos  govern- 
ment. By  1986,  when  Aquino  came  to  power,  approximately  22,500 
NPA  fighters  were  operating  throughout  nearly  all  the  country's 
provinces.  Equally  important,  some  20  percent  of  the  Philippines' 
40,000  villages  were  influenced  by  the  communists.  Although  they 
admitted  that  they  were  not  yet  in  a  position  to  bring  down  the 
government,  CPP  leaders  calculated  that  they  were  in  the  final  phase 
of  the  "strategic  defensive"  and  would  soon  be  able  to  fight  the 
government  to  a  draw  and  take  the  offensive. 

The  overthrow  of  Marcos,  however,  threw  the  communist  move- 
ment into  disarray.  The  former  president's  unpopularity  was  the 
party's  best  recruiting  theme.  Strategic  errors  added  to  the  com- 
munists' woes.  The  CPP's  call  for  a  boycott  of  the  1986  presiden- 
tial election  was  overwhelmingly  rejected  by  Filipinos  and  by  many 
of  the  communists'  local  political  organs.  Party  leaders  later  con- 
fessed that  the  strategy  was  a  major  blunder  that  left  the  insurgents 
with  no  role  in  the  change  of  government.  The  CPP's  chairman, 
Rodolfo  Salas,  resigned  in  1986  in  the  midst  of  an  unprecedented 
strategic  debate  within  the  communist  ranks.  Many  party  cadres 
called  for  a  conciliatory  policy  toward  the  new  and  popular  Aquino 


282 


National  Security 


government,  and  for  open  political  participation.  Initially  the  CPP 
adopted  a  policy  of  "critical  collaboration"  with  the  Aquino  ad- 
ministration, but  after  the  lapse  of  the  sixty-day  cease-fire  in  Febru- 
ary 1987,  the  NPA  resumed  all-out  armed  attacks.  In  1987,  after 
intense  and  prolonged  debate,  the  party's  executive  committee  con- 
firmed the  primacy  of  the  armed  struggle  and  renewed  the  CPP's 
commitment  to  a  protracted  people's  war. 

A  series  of  setbacks  challenged  the  communists  through  the  end 
of  the  1980s.  The  advent  of  a  popular  president  especially  hurt  CPP 
support  among  the  Philippine  middle  class,  students,  labor,  and 
other  mosdy  urban  segments  of  society.  Recruiting  suffered,  as  did 
domestic  financial  support  for  the  guerrillas.  Villages  in  areas  largely 
controlled  by  the  NPA  failed  to  support  CPP-backed  candidates 
in  the  May  1987  congressional  elections.  The  government  also  suc- 
ceeded in  capturing  a  number  of  top  CPP  and  NPA  leaders,  par- 
ticularly in  1987  and  1988.  Among  them  were  Rodolfo  Salas,  the 
former  party  chairman,  and  Romulo  Kintanar,  the  NPA  chief.  Kin- 
tanar,  however,  escaped  from  prison  only  months  after  his  1988 
arrest.  One  result  of  the  repeated  roundups  of  key  leaders  was  a 
series  of  bloody  internal  party  purges  during  1987  and  1988; 
rebels  suspected  of  being  government  informers  were  executed  or 
expelled.  Philippine  military  leaders  publicized  widely  the  mass 
graves  of  suspected  penetration  agents.  Popular  support  for  the 
insurgents  waned,  and  rebel  morale  was  devastated.  Mindanao, 
long  an  NPA  stronghold,  was  especially  hard  hit  by  the  loss  of  up 
to  one-half  of  insurgent  cadres. 

By  the  end  of  the  1980s,  NPA  strength  had  begun  to  decline. 
According  to  government  figures,  full-time  guerrilla  strength  was 
24,000  to  26,000  in  1988,  the  year  that  Aquino  said  would  be  seen 
as  the  turning  point  in  the  government's  counterinsurgency  effort. 
The  NPA  was  then  operating  in  sixty  of  the  nation's  seventy- three 
provinces  and  claimed  a  following  of  some  500,000  Filipinos.  By 
1 99 1 ,  the  government  estimated  that  insurgent  strength  had  fallen 
to  18,000  to  23,000  guerrillas.  Still,  the  military  believed  that  the 
rebels  exercised  considerable  control  over  more  than  18  percent 
of  the  Philippines'  roughly  42,000  villages,  and  around  30,000 
Filipinos  were  thought  to  be  CPP  members.  (Other  estimates  of 
rebel  strength  and  influence  varied  widely;  one  unofficial  source 
placed  NPA  strength  at  34,000.) 

Leadership  and  Organization 

The  CPP  was  nominally  led  by  its  Central  Committee,  which 
in  1989  had  some  thirty  full  and  nine  alternate  members.  In  the 
party's  decentralized  structure,  the  Central  Committee  acted  as 


283 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

the  highest  policy-making  body  and  provided  theoretical  guidance 
to  lower  echelons.  The  Central  Committee  met  infrequently, 
however,  and  real  power  was  vested  in  members  of  its  Political 
Bureau.  The  Political  Bureau  was  thought  to  have  at  least  nine 
members  in  1989,  but  it  attempted  to  meet  only  once  every  six 
months.  Day-to-day  decisions  were  made  by  a  five-member  Ex- 
ecutive Committee.  In  late  1989,  the  committee  included  the  party's 
acting  chairman,  Benito  Tiamzon;  Wilma  Austria-Tiamzon,  his 
wife;  Ricardo  Reyes;  Romulo  Kintanar;  and  Jose  Maria  Sison. 
Sison,  the  CPP's  founder,  was  actively  speaking  and  writing  in 
support  of  the  revolution  while  living  in  self-imposed  exile  in  the 
Netherlands.  Despite  Sison' s  denials,  the  military  maintained  that 
he  continued  to  direct  the  CPP  from  abroad  as  its  chairman  in  ab- 
sentia. 

CPP  political  and  military  operations  were  monitored  and  con- 
trolled through  a  system  of  territorial  and  functional  organs.  The 
basic  work  of  party  political  cadres  and  military  commanders  was 
directed  by  six  territorial  commissions:  Northern  Luzon,  Central 
Luzon,  Southern  Luzon,  Visayas,  Mindanao,  and  Manila-Rizal 
(see  fig.  13).  In  keeping  with  the  CPP's  policy  of  "democratic  cen- 
tralism," party  affairs  were  managed  by  committees  at  echelons 
down  to  village  level.  Beneath  the  territorial  commissions  were  six- 
teen regional  and  island  party  committees,  which  oversaw  front, 
district,  and  section  committees.  At  the  bottom  of  the  CPP's  or- 
ganizational hierarchy  were  local  party  branches  and  barrio  revolu- 
tionary committees.  In  a  parallel  organization,  the  NPA  maintained 
operational  commands  at  each  level  of  the  CPP  structure  to  coor- 
dinate the  movement's  political  and  military  struggle. 

Less  was  known  about  the  organization  and  function  of  the 
party's  national-level  functional  commissions,  but  the  existence  of 
at  least  three — the  National  United  Front  Commission,  the  Finance 
Commission,  and  the  Military  Commission — seemed  certain  in 
1990.  The  Military  Commission,  whose  apparent  role  was  to  direct 
and  coordinate  NPA  activity,  was  directed  by  Executive  Committee 
member  Romulo  Kintanar,  who  was  often  described  as  the  NPA's 
commander.  Establishing,  directing,  and  sustaining  party  front 
groups  was  the  function  of  the  United  Front  Commission,  which 
guided  the  CPP-dominated  National  Democratic  Front  and  other 
political  fronts  and,  through  the  Middle  Forces  Department,  the 
activities  involved  in  pursuing  the  party's  interests  in  other  areas, 
such  as  relations  with  the  Catholic  Church.  The  CPP's  Finance 
Commission  presumably  managed  taxation,  fund-raising,  and 
spending.  Another  organ,  the  National  Organization  Commission, 


284 


National  Security 


reportedly  was  to  be  dissolved,  along  with  the  Manila-Rizal  Com- 
mission, to  form  the  National  Urban  Center  Commission  in 
mid- 1990. 

Political  Organizing  and  Front  Groups 

The  CPP's  efforts  to  broaden  its  grass-roots  political  support  were 
based  on  the  party  cadres'  systematic  organization  of  support  at 
the  village  level.  The  communists'  network  of  barangay  cells  provided 
for  the  NPA's  physical  support  and  made  the  communists  a  po- 
tent political  movement.  Typically,  a  small  band  of  CPP  and  NPA 
organizers  first  conducted  a  "social  investigation"  of  a  targeted 
barangay  and  identified  key  leaders  and  major  sources  of  discon- 
tent. The  cadres  mixed  with  the  people  and  gained  their  confidence 
by  lending  assistance,  such  as  help  in  harvesting  crops  or  in  provid- 
ing rudimentary  medical  care.  Later,  in  a  series  of  well-established 
steps,  they  set  up  an  organizing  committee  and  front  groups 
representing  peasants,  youth,  and  others.  Eventually,  the  organizing 
committee  became  the  barrio  revolutionary  committee,  the  fun- 
damental element  of  the  communists'  shadow  government.  The 
CPP's  methodology  for  organizing  barangays  clearly  had  been  suc- 
cessful. 

Through  the  country,  the  communists'  National  United  Front 
Commission  operated  a  wide  variety  of  front  groups  designed  to 
draw  legal  left-wing  organizations  and  sympathetic  individuals  into 
collaboration  with  the  CPP.  As  part  of  this  alliance-building  pro- 
gram directed  mainly  at  the  "middle  forces,"  the  CPP  maintained 
fronts  targeted  at  labor,  students,  intellectuals,  church  workers, 
human  rights  groups,  women,  businessmen,  and  peasants,  as  well 
as  umbrella  political  fronts.  In  some  cases,  these  fronts  were  wide- 
ly recognized  as  communist-controlled,  and  the  party  had  difficulty 
attracting  and  keeping  partners  because  of  its  dominance.  In  other 
instances,  the  CPP's  influence  was  not  as  obvious,  and  fronts  oper- 
ated with  greater  outside  participation  and  some  autonomy.  In 
general,  the  front  groups  prospered  in  the  mid-1980s  as  a  result 
of  growing  opposition  to  the  Marcos  government.  Aquino's  more 
popular  presidency,  however,  frustrated  the  CPP's  efforts  to  sus- 
tain and  build  on  its  legal  and  quasi-legal  partnerships  with  "cause- 
oriented"  groups. 

The  CPP's  principal  political  front  was  the  National  Democrat- 
ic Front.  Many  of  the  party's  other  fronts — such  as  those  aimed 
at  the  students  and  the  church — operated  under  the  broad  National 
Democratic  Front  umbrella.  Founded  in  April  1973,  the  front  em- 
phasized nationalist  themes  over  communist  ideology  in  order  to 
attract  broader  participation.  Because  its  strong  links  to  the  CPP 


285 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


NORTHERN  LUZON 
COMMISSION 


South 
China 
Sea 


International 

boundary 

PPP  torritnrial  pnmmiccinn 

i 

boundaries 

NPA  guerrilla  fronts 

V///////A 

Areas  where  Moro 

insurgents  most  active 

0 

h  

75        1 50  Kilometers 

0 

75               150  Miles 

MANILA-RIZAL 
COMMISSION 


MINDORO  \  \ 


(Priifippine  N 
Sea  ^ 

SOUTHERN  LUZON 
COMMISSION 

,    (\CA  TANDUANES 
ISLAND 


SAMAR 


TAWITAWI 
X  ISLAND 

sulu  CekBesSea 

ARCHIPELAGO 

/  *)  ' 


MINDANAO 

MINDANAO 
COMMISSION 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Jose  Maria  Sison,  with  Ranier  Werning,  The  Philip- 
pine Revolution:  The  Leader's  View,  New  York,  1989,  xxii;  and  Stanley  Karnow,  In 
Our  Image:  America's  Empire  in  the  Philippines,  New  York,  1989,  429. 


Figure  13.  Areas  of  Insurgent  Organization  and  Activity,  1989 


286 


National  Security 


were  recognized,  however,  the  National  Democratic  Front  remained 
underground.  As  a  result,  the  CPP  moved  in  May  1985  to  estab- 
lish another,  even  broader  front,  the  New  Nationalist  Alliance 
(Bagong  Alyansang  Makabayan — BAYAN).  Many  of  the  CPP's 
other  fronts  quickly  affiliated  with  the  new  political  umbrella  group. 
Although  BAYAN 's  founders  included  many  well-known  non- 
communists,  the  CPP's  early  move  to  take  control  of  BAYAN 's 
council  and  agenda  resulted  in  numerous  defections. 

The  radicalization  of  elements  in  the  Catholic  Church  begin- 
ning in  the  late  1960s  provided  another  avenue  for  the  expansion 
of  CPP  front  operations.  Recognizing  how  the  church's  unparalleled 
credibility  and  extensive  infrastructure  could  benefit  the  revolu- 
tion, the  communists  made  the  Catholic  Church  a  primary  target. 
The  party  established  a  front,  Christians  for  National  Liberation, 
in  1972  with  the  express  purpose  of  penetrating  the  church.  In  1986 
an  activist  claimed  that  Christians  for  National  Liberation  had 
a  clandestine  membership  of  over  3,000  clergy  and  lay  workers. 
Radical  clergy  and  church  activists,  many  adopting  liberation 
theology  (see  Glossary),  supported  the  insurgency  in  a  variety  of 
ways.  Some  church  activities  even  provided  facilities  and  finan- 
cial and  logistical  support  to  the  guerrillas.  Other  church  activists 
joined  the  NPA,  and  several  well-known  priests  led  guerrilla  bands. 
As  a  result,  the  armed  forces  became  deeply  distrustful  of  the 
church's  role,  especially  in  remote  rural  areas  where  the  NPA  was 
most  active.  There,  some  of  the  church's  Basic  Christian  Com- 
munities— support  groups  for  poor  peasants — fell  under  communist 
control. 

Another  prominent  target  of  CPP  front  operations  was  the  work- 
ers' movement  (see  Employment  and  Labor  Relations,  ch.  3).  The 
communists'  flagship  labor  front  was  the  Kilusang  Mayo  Uno  (May 
First  Movement — KMU).  An  umbrella  organization  formed  in 
1980,  the  KMU  claimed  19  affiliated  labor  federations,  hundreds 
of  unions,  and  650,000  workers  in  1989.  Although  it  denied  its  ties 
to  the  CPP,  the  movement  had  an  openly  political  and  revolution- 
ary agenda.  As  one  of  the  country's  largest  labor  groups,  it  played 
a  prominent  role  in  the  anti-Marcos  movement.  However,  the 
KMU-led  general  strikes  during  the  Aquino  administration  some- 
times turned  violent.  Peasant  farmers  were  the  target  of  another 
CPP-sponsored  front,  the  Peasant  Movement  of  the  Philippines 
(Kilusang  Magbubukid  ng  Pilipinas).  Established  in  1985,  this 
movement  claimed  500,000  members  and  2  million  supporters  for 
its  agenda,  which  revolved  around  land  reform. 


287 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Military  Operations  and  Tactics 

The  NPA's  armed  insurrection  followed  the  traditional  pattern 
of  guerrilla  warfare.  NPA  units  were  formed  at  the  regional  and 
front  levels  and  were  normally  company- sized  or  smaller.  Main 
regional  guerrilla  units  usually  had  80  to  150  fighters,  whereas 
secondary  units  had  30  to  60  fighters.  NPA  operations  were,  by 
design,  extremely  decentralized,  with  local  commanders  having 
wide  latitude  to  conduct  attacks  as  they  chose.  Typically,  NPA  ele- 
ments avoided  contact  with  AFP  troops  by  remaining  in  remote, 
mountainous  areas  until  ready  to  stage  an  attack.  For  an  assault, 
they  concentrated  their  forces,  forming  companies  and  sometimes 
battalions  to  overwhelm  government  troops.  Afterward,  they  dis- 
persed to  avoid  AFP  retaliation. 

Isolated  government  outposts  of  the  constabulary,  police,  and 
militia  were  favorite  targets.  The  NPA  also  attacked  public  build- 
ings such  as  town  halls  as  a  demonstration  of  its  power.  The 
property  of  uncooperative  landowners  and  businessmen  was  another 
common  target.  The  communists  normally  attacked  private 
property  to  punish  owners  for  alleged  abuses  or  to  coerce  the  pay- 
ment of  "revolutionary  taxes."  Attacks  on  the  country's  infra- 
structure were  rare;  the  NPA's  demolition  of  several  bridges  on 
Luzon's  Bicol  Peninsula  in  1987  created  a  popular  backlash  that 
apparently  caused  the  NPA  to  abandon  the  tactic. 

The  communists'  traditionally  rural  struggle  came  to  the  cities 
in  the  mid-1980s  with  the  dramatic  increase  in  NPA  assassinations. 
Beginning  in  1984,  Davao  City  became  the  laboratory  for  the  NPA's 
developing  urban  warfare  strategy.  There,  armed  city  partisan 
units,  known  popularly  as  "sparrow  teams,"  murdered  local  offi- 
cials, constables,  police,  and  military  personnel  in  a  sustained  ter- 
ror campaign.  The  NPA  selectively  targeted  unpopular  officials, 
claiming  that  the  killings  provided  revolutionary  justice.  The  NPA's 
Davao  City  offensive  ended  in  1986,  but  not  before  Romulo  Kin- 
tanar,  the  mastermind  of  the  Davao  City  offensive  and  future  NPA 
chief,  had  initiated  a  similar  operation  in  Manila.  The  tempo  of 
sparrow  assassinations  in  the  capital  increased  slowly  after  1984, 
then  rose  dramatically  in  1987.  Some  120  officials,  including 
Aquino's  secretary  of  local  government,  were  assassinated  by  the 
NPA  that  year.  As  sparrow  activity  escalated,  NPA  targeting  be- 
came more  indiscriminate. 

The  guerrillas  also  targeted  Americans  in  1987  for  the  first  time 
since  the  early  1970s.  After  threatening  to  strike  official  Ameri- 
cans for  their  support  of  the  Philippine  counterinsurgency  effort, 
the  NPA  killed  two  United  States  airmen,  an  American  retiree, 


288 


National  Security 


and  a  Filipino  outside  Clark  Air  Base  in  October.  In  April  1989, 
NPA  assassins  struck  United  States  Army  Colonel  James  N.  Rowe, 
a  senior  officer  at  the  Joint  United  States  Military  Advisory  Group, 
on  his  way  to  work  in  Manila.  Several  other  attacks  on  United  States 
servicemen  and  contractors  followed  in  1989  and  1990. 

The  NPA  obtained  most  weapons  from  the  Philippine  military 
in  raids  and  ambushes.  Some  guns  and  ammunition  also  were  pur- 
chased locally.  As  a  result,  the  guerrillas  were  armed  much  like 
the  AFP,  with  an  assortment  of  American-designed  small  arms, 
such  as  the  M-16  rifle.  NPA  commanders  complained,  however, 
that  weapons  shortages  hampered  their  operations.  The  Philippine 
military  estimated  that  only  one-half  to  two-thirds  of  NPA  fight- 
ers had  high-powered  rifles.  There  were  no  indications  in  1990  of 
foreign-supplied  weapons. 

Overall,  life  in  the  NPA  was  austere  and  demanding.  Living 
conditions  were  harsh,  the  food  generally  poor,  medical  care  primi- 
tive, and  danger  constant.  The  NPA  relied  on  the  party's  exten- 
sive network  of  peasant  supporters  in  remote  villages.  The  masa 
(masses)  provided  food  and  lodging  to  mobile  guerrilla  bands  and 
warned  of  approaching  government  troops.  The  CPP's  base  also 
facilitated  communication  among  party  and  NPA  elements  through 
courier,  telephone,  and  telegraph  networks.  By  the  late  1980s,  NPA 
communications  had  become  more  sophisticated;  long-range  ra- 
dios were  used  more  frequently.  Although  women  were  given  equal 
status  as  NPA  fighters,  they  were  normally  given  secondary  sup- 
port roles  in  guerrilla  units.  Discipline  in  the  NPA  was  strict, 
designed  to  win  the  support  of  the  people  by  ensuring  that  the  NPA 
was  not  discredited  by  its  members'  misbehavior.  Punishment  under 
the  CPP's  system  of  revolutionary  justice  ranged  from  reprimand 
to  expulsion  and  execution. 

Financing  and  Foreign  Support 

The  CPP  traditionally  relied  on  "revolutionary  taxes"  as  the 
principal  income  for  what  the  communists  portrayed  as  a  self- 
sufficient,  home-grown  movement.  In  the  areas  where  they  were 
active,  CPP  and  NPA  cadres  obtained  funds  from  individuals  and 
businesses  through  a  combination  of  coercion  and  persuasion.  The 
party's  peasant  supporters  usually  were  more  forthcoming,  provid- 
ing a  few  pesos  and  supplies  such  as  rice  to  local  guerrilla  fighters. 
However,  the  CPP  obtained  most  of  its  funds  by  extorting  money 
from  businesses — such  as  logging,  mining,  and  planting — that  oper- 
ated in  guerilla  zones.  NPA  units  commonly  promised  not  to  fo- 
ment labor  strikes,  restrict  the  transport  of  goods,  destroy  company 
property,  or  assassinate  executives  in  return  for  money  or  material 


289 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

support.  The  communists  enforced  their  threats  through  NPA  at- 
tacks on  uncooperative  owners  and  businesses.  In  addition,  the 
rebels  derived  some  revenues  from  growing  and  selling  marijuana 
in  remote  areas. 

During  the  1980s,  foreign  nongovernment  financing,  mainly 
from  sympathetic  leftist  groups  in  Western  Europe,  but  also  from 
the  United  States,  Australia,  New  Zealand,  Japan,  and  other  Asian 
countries,  became  increasingly  important  to  the  rebels.  By  1990 
the  AFP  chief  of  staff  estimated  that  support  from  foreign  sym- 
pathizers netted  the  CPP  from  US$6  million  to  US$9  million  an- 
nually, an  amount  that  rivaled  the  estimated  US$7.5  to  US$10 
million  that  the  CPP  netted  in  domestic  revenues.  Increased  for- 
eign donations  resulted  in  part  from  intensified  "international 
solidarity  work' '  by  the  communist-controlled  National  Democratic 
Front  through  its  international  office  in  the  Netherlands.  Luis  Jalan- 
doni,  a  former  Catholic  priest,  headed  the  CPP's  fund-raising  and 
international  liaison  efforts.  He  was  joined  in  this  work  by  Jose 
Maria  Sison,  the  CPP's  founder  and  reputed  chairman  in  absen- 
tia, following  Sison 's  release  by  Aquino  in  1986.  Donated  monies 
frequently  were  funneled  through  party  front  groups,  such  as  the 
KMU  labor  federation. 

The  CPP  also  began  to  appeal  openly  for  support  from  sym- 
pathetic foreign  governments  for  the  first  time  during  the  late  1980s. 
Although  there  was  no  evidence  that  any  foreign  government  had 
responded  to  the  CPP's  request  in  1990,  this  campaign  represented 
a  dramatic  departure  from  the  communists'  self-reliant  approach, 
long  a  source  of  pride.  (Two  Chinese  attempts  to  ship  weapons 
to  the  Philippine  communists — in  1972  and  1974 — were  intercepted 
by  the  AFP.  Chinese  support  apparentiy  ended  in  1975.)  The  policy 
reversal  resulted  from  the  CPP's  conclusion  that  more  and  better 
weapons  were  needed  to  escalate  the  war  against  government  forces 
and  that  domestic  revenues  could  not  be  increased  without  aggravat- 
ing growing  popular  resentment  of  rebel  taxation. 

The  Moro  Insurgency 

The  Philippines  has  had  a  long  history  of  Moro  insurgent  move- 
ments dating  back  to  Spanish  rule.  Resistance  to  colonization  was 
especially  strong  among  the  Muslim  population  of  southwestern 
Mindanao  and  the  Sulu  Archipelago.  With  pride  in  their  cultural 
heritage  and  a  strong  desire  for  independence,  Moros  fought  Chris- 
tian and  foreign  domination.  Spanish  control  over  the  Moros  was 
never  complete,  and  the  Muslim  struggle  carried  over  into  the 
United  States  colonial  era.  The  Moros  earned  a  reputation  as  fierce 
fighters  in  combat  against  United  States  troops  (see  War  of 


290 


National  Security 


Resistance,  ch.  1).  Following  independence,  Filipino  Muslims  con- 
tinued to  resist  Manila's  rule,  leading  to  widespread  conflict  in  the 
1970s. 

More  immediate  causes  of  insurgency  rose  out  of  the  increasing 
lawlessness  in  the  southern  Philippines  during  the  late  1960s,  when 
violence  associated  with  political  disputes,  personal  feuds,  and 
armed  gangs  proliferated.  In  this  climate  of  civil  turmoil,  longstand- 
ing tensions  between  Moro  and  Christian  communities  escalated. 
Already  in  competition  over  land,  economic  resources,  and  politi- 
cal power,  the  Moros  became  increasingly  alarmed  by  the  immigra- 
tion of  Christians  from  the  north  who  were  making  Moros  a 
minority  in  what  they  felt  was  their  own  land  (see  Muslim  Filipi- 
nos, ch.  2).  By  mid- 1972,  partisan  political  violence,  generally  divid- 
ed along  religious  lines,  gripped  all  of  Mindanao  and  the  Sulu 
Archipelago.  After  martial  law  was  declared  in  September  1972 
and  all  civilians  were  ordered  to  surrender  their  guns,  spontane- 
ous rebellions  arose  among  Moros,  who  traditionally  had  equated 
the  right  to  carry  arms  with  their  religious  heritage  and  were  sus- 
picious of  the  government's  intentions  toward  them.  In  its  initial 
phases,  the  rebellion  was  a  series  of  isolated  uprisings  that  rapidly 
spread  in  scope  and  size.  But  one  group,  the  Moro  National  Liber- 
ation Front  (MNLF)  led  by  Nur  Misuari,  managed  to  bring  most 
partisan  Moro  forces  into  the  loosely  unified  MNLF  framework. 
Fighting  for  an  independent  Moro  nation,  the  MNLF  received  sup- 
port from  Muslim  backers  in  Libya  and  Malaysia.  When  the  con- 
flict reached  its  peak  in  1973-75,  the  military  arm  of  the  MNLF, 
the  Bangsa  Moro  Army,  was  able  to  field  some  30,000  armed  fight- 
ers. The  military  responded  by  deploying  70  to  80  percent  of  its 
combat  forces  against  the  Moros.  Destruction  and  casualties,  both 
military  and  civilian,  were  heavy;  an  estimated  50,000  people  were 
killed.  The  government  also  employed  a  variety  of  nonmilitary  tac- 
tics, announced  economic  aid  programs  and  political  concessions, 
and  encouraged  factionalism  and  defections  in  the  Muslim  ranks 
by  offering  incentives  such  as  amnesty  and  land.  The  government's 
programs,  and  a  sharp  decrease  in  the  flow  of  arms  from  Malaysia, 
set  back  the  Moro  movement.  In  1976  the  conflict  began  to  wane. 

Talks  between  the  government  and  the  Moros  began  in  late  1976 
under  the  auspices  of  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference, 
a  union  of  Muslim  nations  to  which  the  Moros  looked  for  support. 
The  talks  led  to  an  agreement  between  the  Philippine  government 
and  the  MNLF  signed  in  Tripoli  that  year  providing  for  Moro  au- 
tonomy in  the  southern  Philippines  and  for  a  cease-fire.  After  a 
lull  in  the  fighting,  the  truce  broke  down  in  1977  amid  Moro  charges 
that  the  government's  automony  plan  allowed  only  token  self-rule. 


291 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


The  Moro  rebellion  never  regained  its  former  vigor.  Muslim  fac- 
tionalism was  a  major  factor  in  the  movement's  decline.  Differing 
goals,  traditional  tribal  rivalries,  and  competition  among  Moro  lead- 
ers for  control  of  the  movement  produced  a  three-way  split  in  the 
MNLF  during  the  late  1970s.  The  first  break  occurred  in  1977  when 
Hashim  Salamat,  supported  by  ethnic  Maguindanaos  from  Min- 
danao, formed  the  Moro  Islamic  Liberation  Front,  which  advo- 
cated a  more  moderate  and  conciliatory  approach  toward  the 
government.  Misuari's  larger  and  more  militant  MNLF  was  fur- 
ther weakened  during  that  period  when  rival  leaders  formed  the 
Bangsa  Moro  Liberation  Organization,  drawing  many  Mindanao 
Maranaos  away  from  the  MNLF,  dominated  by  Misuari's  Sulu- 
based  Tausug  tribe.  The  Bangsa  Moro  Liberation  Organization 
eventually  collapsed,  giving  way  to  the  Moro  National  Liberation 
Front-Reformist  Movement.  Moro  factionalism,  compounded  by 
declining  foreign  support  and  general  war  weariness,  hurt  the  Mus- 
lim movement  both  on  the  battlefield  and  at  the  negotiating  table. 
Moro  fighting  strength  declined  to  about  15,000  by  1983,  and  Mus- 
lim and  government  forces  only  occasionally  clashed  during  Mar- 
cos's  last  years  in  office. 

In  keeping  with  her  campaign  pledge  of  national  reconciliation, 
Aquino  initiated  talks  with  the  MNLF — the  largest  of  the  three 
major  factions — in  1986  to  resolve  the  conflict  with  Muslim  sep- 
aratists. Discussions  produced  a  cease-fire  in  September,  followed 
by  further  talks  under  the  auspices  of  the  Organization  of  the  Is- 
lamic Conference.  In  January  1987,  the  MNLF  signed  an  agree- 
ment relinquishing  its  goal  of  independence  for  Muslim  regions 
and  accepting  the  government's  offer  of  autonomy.  The  Moro  Is- 
lamic Liberation  Front,  the  next  largest  faction,  refused  to  accept 
the  accord  and  initiated  a  brief  offensive  that  ended  in  a  truce  later 
that  month.  Talks  between  the  government  and  the  MNLF  over 
the  proposed  autonomous  region  continued  sporadically  through- 
out 1987  but  eventually  deadlocked.  Following  the  government's 
successful  diplomatic  efforts  to  block  the  MNLF's  latest  bid  for  Or- 
ganization of  the  Islamic  Conference  membership,  the  MNLF  offi- 
cially resumed  its  armed  insurrection  in  February  1988,  but  little 
fighting  resulted. 

The  government,  meanwhile,  pressed  ahead  with  plans  for  Mus- 
lim autonomy  without  the  MNLF's  cooperation.  Article  10  of  the 
1987  constitution  mandates  that  the  new  congress  establish  an 
Autonomous  Region  in  Muslim  Mindanao.  In  the  November  1989 
plebiscite,  only  two  Mindanao  provinces — Maguindanao  and 
Lanao  del  Sur— and  two  in  the  Sulu  Archipelago — Sulu  and 
Tawitawi — opted  to  accept  the  government's  autonomy  measure. 


292 


National  Security 


The  fragmented  four-province  Autonomous  Region  for  Muslim 
Mindanao,  with  its  own  governor  and  unicameral  legislature,  was 
officially  inaugurated  on  November  6,  1990. 

Armed  activity  by  the  Moros  continued  at  a  relatively  low  level 
through  the  late  1980s,  with  sporadic  clashes  between  government 
and  Muslim  forces.  The  military  still  based  army  and  marine  bat- 
talions in  Moro  areas  to  maintain  order  in  1990,  but  far  fewer  units 
than  it  had  in  the  1970s.  (Four  battalions  were  on  Jolo  Island,  a 
Moro  stronghold,  down  from  twenty-four  at  the  rebellion's  height.) 
Most  of  the  endemic  violence  in  Muslim  areas  was  directed  at  rival 
clans,  not  at  the  military's  peacekeeping  forces.  The  Moro  move- 
ment remained  divided  along  tribal  lines  in  three  major  factions. 
Misuari's  MNLF  forces  in  the  Sulu  Archipelago  totaled  15,000, 
and  the  Mindanao-based  Moro  Islamic  Liberation  Front  and  the 
MNLF-Reformist  Movement  fielded  around  2,900  and  900  troops, 
respectively.  Weakened  by  these  divisions,  Muslim  infighting,  and 
the  formation  of  an  autonomous  region,  the  Moro  armies  did  not 
appear  to  be  an  imminent  threat.  Still,  the  MNLF,  which  did  not 
recognize  the  autonomous  region,  showed  no  sign  of  surrender- 
ing, and  it  promised  to  remain  a  potent  military  and  political  force 
in  the  southern  Philippines. 

Crime 

Despite  some  improvement  in  law  and  order,  crime  remained 
a  major  problem  through  the  end  of  the  1980s.  Police  attributed 
the  country's  chronic  crime  problems  to  a  variety  of  social  and  cul- 
tural factors.  Widespread  poverty  and  rapid  population  growth  were 
frequently  cited.  Population  pressures  and  a  shortage  of  land  and 
jobs  in  rural  areas  had  produced  a  steady  internal  migration  to  the 
cities.  This  urbanization  of  a  traditionally  agrarian  society  was  com- 
monly mentioned  as  cause  for  increased  crime  rates.  In  particu- 
lar, police  pointed  to  the  rapid  growth  of  urban  slum  and  squatter 
areas;  more  than  25  percent  of  the  population  of  Metro-Manila 
(see  Glossary)  were  thought  to  be  squatters  in  the  late  1980s  (see 
Migration,  ch.  2).  Widespread  possession  of  firearms — including 
automatic  rifles — was  another  factor  contributing  to  crime.  Un- 
disciplined private  armies,  usually  maintained  by  local  politicians 
and  wealthy  families,  and  numerous  organized  crime  gangs  were 
the  biggest  violators  of  firearms  laws.  The  communist  and  Mus- 
lim insurgencies  compounded  the  problem  of  proliferating  guns 
and  violence.  Piracy  and  smuggling  also  were  thriving  criminal 
industries,  especially  in  the  southern  portions  of  the  archipelago. 

According  to  the  police,  the  incidence  of  serious  crime  escalated 
through  the  early  1980s,  from  approximately  250  crimes  per  100,000 


293 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


population  in  1979,  to  a  sustained  level  of  around  310  during  1984 
through  1987,  then  declined  in  1988  and  1989.  In  1988  the  crime 
rate  dipped  below  300  crimes  per  100,000  people,  then  fell  dra- 
matically in  1989  to  251  crimes  per  100,000  citizens.  Because  of 
differing  reporting  practices  and  degrees  of  coverage,  it  was  difficult 
to  compare  Philippine  crime  rates  to  those  of  other  countries. 

Government  officials  attributed  the  decrease  in  crime  to  improved 
police  work,  but  economic  conditions  appeared  to  be  as  important. 
The  deterioration  in  law  and  order  during  the  early  and  mid-1980s 
accompanied  a  steadily  worsening  economy,  whereas  the  improve- 
ment in  the  late  1980s  paralleled  renewed  economic  growth  under 
Aquino.  Not  surprisingly,  crime  rates  were  highest  in  major  ur- 
ban areas,  where  unemployment  was  the  highest.  Regionally, 
peninsular  southern  Luzon,  the  western  Visayan  islands,  and  por- 
tions of  Mindanao — impoverished  rural  areas  where  insurgents 
were  active — had  the  most  criminal  activity  in  the  mid-1980s. 

Drug  use  and  trafficking,  particularly  in  marijuana,  were  growing 
problems  during  the  1980s.  Cultivation  was  geographically  wide- 
spread, but  the  mountainous  portions  of  northern  Luzon  and  the 
central  Visayas  were  the  major  marijuana-growing  centers.  Dur- 
ing the  late  1980s,  another  drug,  methamphetamine,  was  fast  be- 
coming a  narcotics  problem.  Known  locally  as  shabu,  it  had  generally 
been  smuggled  into  the  country,  but  domestic  production  expanded 
sharply  in  1989  to  meet  growing  demand.  Coca  cultivation  was 
not  significant  in  1989,  and  there  was  no  evidence  of  opium  pop- 
py cultivation  or  heroin  manufacture. 

The  Philippines  remained  a  center  of  drug  trafficking  and  trans- 
shipment. Cannabis  growers  exported  their  product  to  Hong  Kong, 
Japan,  Australia,  and  the  United  States,  and  Philippine  waters  were 
routinely  used  by  other  smugglers  as  a  transshipment  point  for 
Southeast  Asian  marijuana  bound  for  North  America.  Manila's 
Ninoy  Aquino  International  Airport,  too,  was  used  for  tranship- 
ment of  heroin  and  marijuana  destined  for  Guam,  Australia,  Eu- 
rope, and  the  United  States.  Production  and  trafficking  of  illegal 
drugs  was  accomplished  by  a  variety  of  domestic  and  foreign  crimi- 
nal groups,  notably  Australian,  American,  and  ethnic  Chinese 
Filipinos.  Communist  insurgents  also  were  involved  in  marijuana 
cultivation. 

Corruption  remained  a  serious  problem  in  the  early  1990s,  and 
its  elimination  was  one  of  the  government's  most  vexing  challenges. 
Despite  persistent  efforts,  petty  graft  was  commonplace,  and  high- 
level  corruption  scandals  periodically  rocked  the  government.  As 
part  of  its  continuing  efforts  to  weed  out  official  malfeasance,  the 


294 


National  Security 


government  maintained  a  special  anticorruption  court,  known  as 
the  Sandiganbayan. 

Other  government  initiatives  targeted  corruption,  crime,  and 
terrorism.  Peace  and  Order  Councils  at  the  national,  regional,  and 
provincial  level  were  rejuvenated  under  Aquino.  By  regularly  bring- 
ing together  responsible  government,  military,  and  community 
leaders,  the  government  hoped  to  improve  the  effectiveness  of  its 
anticrime  and  counterinsurgency  programs.  AFP  and  police  com- 
manders also  attempted  to  address  the  problems  of  internal  corrup- 
tion and  abuse,  which,  they  admitted,  undermined  public  confidence 
in,  and  cooperation  with,  the  security  forces.  Top  military  leaders 
routinely  publicized  retraining  programs,  the  discharge  and  demo- 
tion of  scalawags  in  the  ranks,  and  other  measures  designed  to 
improve  discipline.  The  military  also  mounted  a  counternarcotics 
effort,  spearheaded  by  the  constabulary's  Narcotics  Command. 
Government  agents  more  than  doubled  arrests  during  1989  and 
eradicated  millions  of  marijuana  plants,  but  they  still  found  it 
difficult  to  keep  pace  with  the  growing  drug  trade. 

Law  Enforcement 

Until  the  mid-1970s,  when  a  major  restructuring  of  the  nation's 
police  system  was  undertaken,  the  Philippine  Constabulary  alone 
was  responsible  for  law  enforcement  on  a  national  level.  Indepen- 
dent city  and  municipal  police  forces  took  charge  of  maintaining 
peace  and  order  on  a  local  level,  calling  on  the  constabulary  for 
aid  when  the  need  arose.  The  National  Police  Commission,  estab- 
lished in  1966  to  improve  the  professionalism  and  training  of  local 
police,  had  loose  supervisory  authority  over  the  police.  It  was  widely 
accepted,  however,  that  this  system  had  several  serious  defects.  Most 
noteworthy  were  jurisdictional  limitations,  lack  of  uniformity  and 
coordination,  disputes  between  police  forces,  and  partisan  politi- 
cal involvement  in  police  employment,  appointments,  assignments, 
and  promotions.  Local  political  bosses  routinely  used  police  as  pri- 
vate armies,  protecting  their  personal  interests  and  intimidating 
political  opponents. 

In  order  to  correct  such  deficiencies,  the  1973  constitution  provid- 
ed for  the  integration  of  public  safety  forces.  Several  presidential 
decrees  were  subsequently  issued,  integrating  the  police,  fire,  and 
jail  services  in  the  nation's  more  than  1,500  cities  and  municipali- 
ties. On  August  8,  1975,  Presidential  Decree  765  officially  estab- 
lished the  joint  command  structure  of  the  Philippine  Constabulary 
and  Integrated  National  Police.  The  constabulary,  which  had  a 
well- developed  nationwide  command  and  staff  structure,  was  given 
the  task  of  organizing  the  integration.  The  chief  of  the  Philippine 


295 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Constabulary  served  jointly  as  the  director  general  of  the  Integrated 
National  Police.  As  constabulary  commander,  he  reported  through 
the  military  chain  of  command,  and  as  head  of  the  Integrated  Na- 
tional Police,  he  reported  directiy  to  the  minister  (later  secretary) 
of  national  defense.  The  National  Police  Commission  was  trans- 
ferred to  the  Ministry  (later  Department)  of  National  Defense,  re- 
taining its  oversight  responsibilities  but  turning  over  authority  for 
training  and  other  matters  to  the  Philippine  Constabulary  and  In- 
tegrated National  Police. 

The  Integrated  National  Police  was  assigned  responsibility  for 
public  safety,  protection  of  lives  and  property,  enforcement  of  laws, 
and  maintenance  of  peace  and  order  throughout  the  nation.  To 
carry  out  these  responsibilities,  it  was  given  powers  "to  prevent 
crimes,  effect  the  arrest  of  criminal  offenders  and  provide  for  their 
detention  and  rehabilitation,  prevent  and  control  fires,  investigate 
the  commission  of  all  crimes  and  offenses,  bring  the  offenders  to 
justice,  and  take  all  necessary  steps  to  ensure  public  safety."  In 
practice,  the  Philippine  Constabulary  retained  responsibility  for 
dealing  with  serious  crimes  or  cases  involving  jurisdictions  far  sepa- 
rated from  one  another,  and  the  Integrated  National  Police  took 
charge  of  less  serious  crimes  and  local  traffic,  crime  prevention, 
and  public  safety. 

The  Integrated  National  Police's  organization  paralleled  that  of 
the  constabulary.  The  thirteen  Philippine  Constabulary  regional 
command  headquarters  were  the  nuclei  for  the  Integrated  National 
Police's  regional  commands.  Likewise,  the  constabulary's  seventy- 
three  provincial  commanders,  in  their  capacity  as  provincial  police 
superintendents,  had  operational  control  of  Integrated  National 
Police  forces  in  their  respective  provinces.  Provinces  were  further 
subdivided  into  147  police  districts,  stations,  and  substations.  The 
constabulary  was  responsible  for  patrolling  remote  rural  areas.  In 
Metro  Manila's  four  cities  and  thirteen  municipalities,  the  Integrat- 
ed National  Police's  Metropolitan  Police  Force  shared  the  head- 
quarters of  the  constabulary's  Capital  Command.  The  commanding 
general  of  the  Capital  Command  was  also  the  director  of  the  In- 
tegrated National  Police's  Metropolitan  Police  Force  and  directed 
the  operations  of  the  capital's  four  police  and  fire  districts. 

As  of  1985,  the  Integrated  National  Police  numbered  some  60,000 
people,  a  marked  increase  over  the  1980  figure  of  51,000.  Approx- 
imately 10  percent  of  these  staff  members  were  fire  and  prison  offi- 
cials, and  the  remainder  were  police.  The  Philippine  National  Police 
Academy  provided  training  for  Integrated  National  Police  officer 
cadets.  Established  under  the  Integrated  National  Police's  Train- 
ing Command  in  1978,  the  academy  offered  a  bachelor  of  science 


296 


National  Security 


degree  in  public  safety  following  a  two-year  course  of  study.  Ad- 
mission to  the  school  was  highly  competitive. 

The  Integrated  National  Police  force  was  the  subject  of  some  crit- 
icism and  the  repeated  object  of  reform.  Police  were  accused  of  in- 
volvement in  illegal  activities,  violent  acts,  and  abuse.  Charges  of 
corruption  were  frequent.  To  correct  the  Integrated  National  Police's 
image  problem,  the  government  sponsored  programs  to  identify 
and  punish  police  offenders  and  introduced  training  designed  to  raise 
their  standard  of  appearance,  conduct,  and  performance. 

Dramatic  changes  were  planned  for  the  police  in  1991 .  The  newly 
formed  Philippine  National  Police  was  to  be  a  strictly  civilian  or- 
ganization, removed  from  the  armed  forces  and  placed  under  a 
new  civilian  department  known  as  the  Department  of  the  Interior 
and  Local  Government. 

Local  police  forces  were  supported  at  the  national  level  by  the 
National  Bureau  of  Investigation.  As  an  agency  of  the  Department 
of  Justice,  the  National  Bureau  of  Investigation  was  authorized  to 
"investigate,  on  its  own  initiative  and  in  the  public  interest,  crimes 
and  other  offenses  against  the  laws  of  the  Philippines;  to  help 
whenever  officially  requested,  investigate  or  detect  crimes  or  other 
offenses;  [and]  to  act  as  a  national  clearing  house  of  criminal  records 
and  other  information. ' '  In  addition,  the  bureau  maintained  a  scien- 
tific crime  laboratory  and  provided  technical  assistance  on  request 
to  the  police  and  constabulary. 

Local  officials  also  played  a  role  in  law  enforcement.  By  presiden- 
tial decree,  the  justice  system  in  the  barangays  empowered  village 
leaders  to  handle  petty  and  less  serious  crimes.  The  intent  of  the 
program  was  to  reinforce  the  authority  of  local  officials  and  to  reduce 
the  workload  on  already  overtaxed  Philippine  law  enforcement 
agencies. 

Penal  Law 

The  Philippine  legal  system  was  a  hybrid,  reflecting  the  coun- 
try's cultural  and  colonial  history.  The  system  combined  elements 
of  Roman  civil  law  from  Spain,  Anglo-American  common  law  in- 
troduced by  the  United  States,  and  the  customary  systems  used 
by  minorities.  The  influence  of  Spanish  law  was  slowly  fading  but 
was  clearly  evident  in  private  law,  including  family  relations, 
property  matters,  and  contracts.  The  influence  of  American  law 
was  most  visible  in  constitutional  and  corporate  law,  and  taxation 
and  banking  (see  National  Government,  ch.  4).  Evidentiary  rules 
also  were  adopted  from  the  American  system.  In  the  Muslim  areas 
of  the  south,  Islamic  law  was  employed. 


297 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Philippine  law  dates  to  the  nation's  independence  from  Spain 
at  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century.  Statutes  were  enacted  by  the 
colonial  Philippine  legislature  (1900-35),  the  commonwealth  legis- 
lature (1935-46),  and  by  the  republic,  beginning  July  4,  1946. 
Many  modern  laws  were  patterned  after  the  United  States,  and 
United  States  case  law  was  cited  and  given  persuasive  effect  in 
Philippine  courts.  As  of  the  mid-1980s,  twenty-six  codes  were  in 
effect.  These  included  the  1930  revised  penal  code,  in  effect  since 
January  1,  1932,  and  the  civil  code,  which  replaced  the  Spanish 
civil  code  on  July  1,  1950.  In  addition,  numerous  presidential 
decrees  issued  during  and  after  the  martial  law  period  (1972-81) 
had  the  effect  of  law.  During  this  era,  President  Marcos  issued  more 
than  2,000  decrees.  Although  some  were  rescinded  by  Aquino  dur- 
ing her  first  year  in  office.  Rule  by  presidential  decree  ended  in 
February  1987  with  the  ratification  of  the  constitution. 

Substantive  criminal  law  was  embodied  in  the  revised  penal  code, 
as  amended,  and  based  chiefly  on  the  Spanish  penal  code  of  1870, 
which  took  effect  in  1887.  The  penal  code  set  forth  the  basic  prin- 
ciples affecting  criminal  liability,  established  a  system  of  penalties, 
and  defined  classes  of  crimes.  It  also  provided  for  aggravating  and 
mitigating  circumstances,  stating,  for  instance,  that  age,  physical 
defect,  or  acting  under  "powerful  impulse  causing  passion  or  ob- 
fuscation"  can  affect  criminal  liability.  Insanity  or  acting  under 
irresistible  force  or  uncontrollable  fear  were  regarded  by  law  as  ex- 
empting circumstances.  Under  the  code,  penalties  were  classified 
as  capital  (requiring  a  death  sentence),  afflictive  (six  years  to  life 
imprisonment),  correctional  (one  month  to  six  years),  and  light 
(up  to  thirty  days).  These  correspond  to  the  classification  of  crimes 
as  grave  felonies,  punishable  by  capital  or  afflictive  penalties;  less 
grave  felonies,  punishable  by  correctional  penalties;  and  light  felo- 
nies, punishable  by  light  penalties.  The  1987  constitution,  however, 
outlaws  the  death  penalty  unless  provided  for  by  subsequent  legis- 
lation. 

Criminal  Procedure 

The  sources  of  procedural  criminal  law  were  the  constitution, 
the  revised  penal  code  of  1930,  the  New  Rules  of  Court  of  1964, 
special  laws,  and  certain  presidential  orders  and  letters  of  instruc- 
tion. These  governed  the  pleading,  practice,  and  procedure  of  all 
courts  as  well  as  admission  to  the  practice  of  law.  All  had  the  force 
and  effect  of  law. 

The  rights  of  the  accused  under  Philippine  law  are  guaranteed 
under  Article  $  of  the  1987  constitution  and  include  the  right  to 
be  presumed  innocent  until  proven  guilty,  the  right  to  enjoy  due 


298 


National  Security 


process  under  the  law,  and  the  right  to  a  speedy,  public  trial.  Those 
accused  must  be  informed  of  the  charges  against  them  and  must 
be  given  access  to  competent,  independent  counsel,  and  the  op- 
portunity to  post  bail,  except  in  instances  where  there  is  strong  evi- 
dence that  the  crime  could  result  in  the  maximum  punishment  of 
life  imprisonment.  Habeas  corpus  protection  is  extended  to  all  ex- 
cept in  cases  of  invasion  or  rebellion.  During  a  trial,  the  accused 
are  entitled  to  be  present  at  every  proceeding,  to  compel  witness- 
es, to  testify  and  cross-examine  them  and  to  testify  or  be  exempt 
as  a  witness.  Finally,  all  are  guaranteed  freedom  from  double 
jeopardy  and,  if  convicted,  the  right  to  appeal. 

Criminal  action  can  be  initiated  either  by  a  complaint — a  sworn 
statement  by  the  offended  party,  a  witness,  or  a  police  officer — or 
by  "information."  Information  consists  of  a  written  accusation  filed 
with  the  court  by  a  prosecutor,  known  as  a  fiscal,  at  the  provincial 
levels  of  government  and  below.  No  information  can  be  filed  unless 
investigation  by  a  judge,  fiscal,  or  state  prosecutor  establishes  a  prima 
facie  case.  Warrant  for  arrest  is  issued  by  a  judge.  Warrant-less 
arrests  by  a  police  officer  can  be  made  legally  only  under  extraordi- 
nary circumstances.  Aquino  immediately  discontinued  Marcos-era 
practices  of  presidentially  ordered  searches  and  arrests  without  ju- 
dicial process  and  prolonged  "preventative  detention  actions." 

Trial  procedure  consists  of  arraignment,  trial,  and  the  court's 
judgment  and  sentencing.  The  accused  must  be  arraigned  in  the 
court  where  the  complaint  or  information  is  filed.  A  defendant  must 
be  present  to  plead  to  the  charge,  except  in  certain  minor  cases 
where  a  lawyer  can  appear  for  him  or  her.  All  offenses  are  bail- 
able, save  the  most  serious  cases  when  strong  evidence  of  guilt  ex- 
ists. If  a  defendant  has  no  lawyer,  the  court  is  required  to  supply 
one.  Prosecution  is  carried  out  by  the  state  prosecutor  or  provin- 
cial fiscal,  who  exercises  broad  discretion  in  screening  cases  and 
affixing  charges.  No  jury  is  employed;  the  judge  determines  all  ques- 
tions of  law  and  fact  and  passes  sentence.  A  written  sentence  must 
be  read  to  the  court.  Afterward,  either  party  may  appeal. 

The  Correctional  System 

In  the  late  1980s,  institutions  for  the  confinement  of  convicts 
and  the  detention  of  those  awaiting  trial  included  a  variety  of  na- 
tional prisons  and  penal  farms  as  well  as  numerous  small  local  jails 
and  lockups.  In  general,  the  national  prisons  housed  more  serious 
offenders,  and  those  serving  short-term  sentences  were  held  in  lo- 
cal facilities.  The  prison  system  at  the  national  level  was  super- 
vised by  the  Bureau  of  Prisons  of  the  Department  of  Justice.  The 
bureau  was  responsible  for  the  safekeeping  of  prisoners  and  their 


299 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

rehabilitation  through  general  and  moral  education  and  technical 
training  in  industry  and  agriculture.  The  bureau  also  oversaw  the 
operation  of  prison  agro-industries  and  the  production  of  food  com- 
modities. In  1991  the  newly  formed  Philippine  National  Police  took 
over  administration  of  local  jails. 

The  government  maintained  six  correctional  institutions  and 
penal  farms.  The  nation's  largest  prison  was  the  National  Peniten- 
tiary at  Muntinlupa,  Rizal  Province,  near  Manila,  which  also  oper- 
ated the  Manila  City  Jail.  The  penitentiary  served  as  the  central 
facility  for  those  sentenced  to  life  imprisonment  or  long-term  in- 
carceration. It  was  divided  into  two  camps  to  separate  those  serv- 
ing maximum  and  minimum  penalties.  The  Correctional  Institution 
for  Women  was  located  in  Metropolitan  Manila.  Combination 
prison  and  penal  farms  also  were  located  in  Zamboanga  City;  in 
Palawan,  Mindoro  Occidental;  and  in  several  Mindanao  provinces. 
Prison  conditions  in  the  Philippines  were  generally  poor,  and  pris- 
on life  was  harsh. 

Some  prison  inmates  were  eligible  for  parole  and  probation.  Be- 
fore serving  their  sentence,  felons  who  were  not  charged  with  sub- 
version or  insurgency,  or  had  not  been  on  probation  before,  could 
apply  for  probation.  Probationers  were  required  to  meet  with  their 
parole  officers  monthly,  to  avoid  any  further  offense,  and  to  com- 
ply with  all  other  court-imposed  conditions.  After  serving  an  es- 
tablished minimum  sentence,  certain  prisoners  could  apply  to  their 
parole  board  for  release.  The  board  could  also  recommend  pardon 
to  the  president  for  prisoners  it  believed  to  have  reformed  and  who 
presented  no  menace  to  society. 

In  1991  crime  still  was  a  serious,  if  somewhat  reduced,  threat 
to  the  general  peace  and  security  of  society  and  was  aggravated 
by  corruption  in  the  police  and  court  systems.  The  politicization 
of  the  military  was  seen  as  a  long-term  problem,  and  the  threat 
of  a  military  coup  remained  significant.  The  threat  of  a  CPP-led 
takeover  seemed  to  be  receding  as  NPA  guerrilla  strength  ebbed. 
The  socioeconomic  roots  of  the  revolutionary  movement  remained 
and  promised  to  make  the  insurgency  a  problem  for  some  time  to 
come,  despite  its  slow  decline.  The  government  also  recognized 
the  continuing  threat  posed  by  well-armed  Filipino  Muslim  rebels, 
although  few  feared  a  near-term  resurgent  Moro  uprising.  No  ex- 
ternal security  threats  were  perceived  to  exist. 

*     *  * 

A  series  of  well-researched  books  published  in  the  late  1980s  have 
added  immensely  to  the  available  body  of  work  on  the  Philippine 


300 


National  Security 


communist  insurgency.  William  Chapman's  Inside  the  Philippine 
Revolution  offers  unique  insights  on  the  revolutionary  movement. 
Richard  Kessler's  Rebellion  and  Repression  in  the  Philippines  provides 
a  thorough  review  of  the  insurgency,  especially  its  social  and  cul- 
tural roots.  Gregg  Jones's  Red  Revolution  combines  discussions  of 
the  CPP's  historical  development  with  revealing  interviews  with 
communist  leaders  and  first-hand  reports  on  guerrilla  commanders 
and  political  cadres  in  the  field.  Although  predictably  dogmatic, 
books  by  CPP  founder  Jose  Maria  Sison — Philippine  Society  and  Revo- 
lution and  The  Philippine  Revolution — present  the  theoretical  under- 
pinnings of  the  insurgency  (the  former  appears  under  his  nom  de 
guerre,  Amado  Guerrero).  Annual  updates  on  the  progress  of  the 
communist  movement  can  be  found  in  the  Yearbook  on  International 
Communist  Affairs. 

Comprehensive  studies  of  the  Philippine  military  are  few. 
Richard  Kessler's  Rebellion  and  Repression  in  the  Philippines  provides 
the  most  thorough  examination  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  Philip- 
pines and  their  strengths  and  weaknesses.  The  history  of  Philip- 
pine civil-military  relations  is  explored  by  two  doctoral  dissertations: 
Donald  L.  Berlin's  "Prelude  to  Martial  Law"  and  Carolina  Her- 
nandez's "The  Extent  of  Civilian  Control  of  the  Military  in  the 
Philippines."  More  current  information  on  the  military's  role  in 
politics  can  be  found  in  the  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review,  Asian  Defence 
Journal,  and  Pacific  Defence  Reporter. 

Standard  references  on  military  capabilities  include  annual  edi- 
tions of  The  Military  Balance,  prepared  by  the  International  Insti- 
tute for  Strategic  Studies,  and  the  United  States  Arms  Control  and 
Disarmament  Agency's  World  Military  Expenditures  and  Arms  Trans- 
fers. Jane's  Infantry  Weapons,  Jane's  Armour  and  Artillery,  Jane's  All  the 
World's  Aircraft,  and  Jane's  Fighting  Ships  also  are  useful.  The  mili- 
tary's human  rights  performance  is  reviewed  annually  by  the  Am- 
nesty International  Report  and  by  the  United  States  Department  of 
State's  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices.  (For  further  infor- 
mation and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


301 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Rate  of  Growth  of  Gross  National  Product  (GNP)  by  Sector, 

1965-90 

3  Distribution  of  Employment  by  Sector,  Selected  Years, 

1956-88 

4  Government  Expenditures,  1980,  1985,  and  1989 

5  Government  Revenues,  1980,  1985,  and  1989 

6  Distribution  of  Government  Expenditures,  Selected  Years, 

1965-89 

7  Annual  Rate  of  Growth  of  Money  Supply  and  Rate  of  Infla- 

tion, 1950-90 

8  Value  Added  in  Agriculture,  Forestry,  and  Fishing  by  Sec- 

tor, Selected  Years,  1970-90 

9  Rates  of  Growth  of  Value  Added  in  Agriculture,  Forestry,  and 

Fishing  by  Sector,  1970-90 

10  Structure  of  Manufacturing  Sector,  1970,  1980,  and  1987 

11  Production,  Exports,  and  Reserves  of  Major  Minerals,  1985, 

1987,  and  1988 

12  Income  Distribution  by  Decile,  Selected  Years,  1961-88 

13  Balance  of  Payments,  1985-89 

14  Foreign  Investment  by  Industry,  1970-88 

15  Foreign  Investment  by  Country,  1970-88 

16  External  Debt,  1982-90 

17  Official  Development  Assistance  by  Source  and  Country, 

1952-72  and  1978-88 

18  Official  Development  Assistance  by  Source  and  Type,  Selected 

Years,  1952-90 

19  Major  Army  Equipment,  1990 

20  Major  Naval  Equipment,  1990 

21  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1990 


303 


Appendix 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


When  you  know 

Multiply  by 

To  find 

Millimeters   

  0.04 

inches 

Centimeters 

0  39 

inches 

Meters  

  3.3 

feet 

Kilometers  

  0.62 

miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)  

  2.47 

acres 

  0.39 

square  miles 

Cubic  meters  

  35.3 

cubic  feet 

Liters  

  0.26 

gallons 

Kilograms   

  2.2 

pounds 

  0.98 

long  tons 

  1.1 

short  tons 

  2,204 

pounds 

  1.8 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade)  and  add  32 


Table  2.  Rate  of  Growth  of  Gross  National  Product  (GNP) 
by  Sector,  1965-90  * 
(in  percentages) 


Sector  1965-70      1970-75      1975-80      1980-85      1985-90  1989-90 


Agriculture,  forestry, 

and  fishing    3.5  3.9  5.2  2.1  2.4  2.2 

Industry    4.9  7.5  7.5  -2.8  4.5  1.9 

Mining    15.3  5.2  8.4  -4.6  -2.0  2.5 

Manufacturing    6.1  6.0  6.0  -1.5  4.8  1.4 

Construction    3.1  14.8  12.5  -9.8  3.9  4.2 

Services    4.8  4.8  5.8  -0.4  4.9  3.3 

GNP   4.8  6.5  6.3  -1.0  4.6  3.1 


*  Sectoral  products  from  1965  to  1975  are  net  domestic  product. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Philippines,  National  Economic  and  Development 
Authority,  1 989  Philippine  Statistical  Yearbook,  Manila,  1989,  Tables  3.9  and  3.10; 
Philippines,  National  Economic  and  Development  Authority,  1981  Philippine  Statisti- 
cal Yearbook,  Manila,  1981,  Tables  3.9  and  3.13;  and  Philippines,  National  Statistical 
Coordination  Board,  The  National  Accounts  of  the  Philippines:  CY1988  to  CY1990, 
Manila,  n.d.,  Tables  5-7. 


305 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Table  3.  Distribution  of  Employment  by  Sector,  Selected  Years,  1956-88 

(in  percentages) 

Sector  1956  1961  1968  1975  1980  1985  1988 
Agriculture,  forestry, 

and  fishing                    59.0       60.6       53.8       53.8  51.4  49.0  46.1 

Industry 

Manufacturing                12.5        11.3        11.8        11.4  11.0  9.7  10.4 

Other   3J3   3J         4.0   3J*   4J)   4J5   5J! 

Total  industry    .  .  .     15.8        14.4        15.8        15.2  15.5  14.3  15.6 

Services                            24.5       24.6       30.0       31.0  33.0  36.8  38.2 

TOTAL  *    100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0  100.0 

*  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Philippines,  National  Economic  and  Development 
Authority,  1989  Philippine  Statistical  Yearbook,  Manila,  1989,  Tables  11.1  and  11.2; 
and  Philippines,  National  Economic  and  Development  Authority,  1981  Philippine 
Statistical  Yearbook,  Manila,  1981,  Table  11.8. 


Table  4.  Government  Expenditures,  1980,  1985,  and  1989 
(in  millions  of  pesos)  * 


1980 

1985 

1989 

Economic  services 

2,475 

4,606 

16,217 

Industry,  trade,  labor,  and  tourism  

. . .  1,424 

1,915 

1,343 

. . .  11,822 

13,378 

22,309 

Other  

11,474 

4,885 

.    ,  15,721 

31,373 

44,754 

Social  services 

4,204 

10,976 

29,909 

Health   

.  .  .  1,333 

3,220 

7,353 

442 

1,875 

3,720 

Housing  and  community  development  .  .  . 

,  ,  .  1,371 

5,505 

374 

Other  

267 

183 

2,632 

Total  social  services   

7,617 

21,759 

43,988 

4,760 

7,123 

20,770 

General  public  services   

6,528 

9,986 

18,989 

.  .  .  3,562 

22,269 

100,439 

TOTAL   

38,188 

92,510 

228,940 

—  means  negligible. 

*  For  value  of  the  peso — see  Glossary. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Philippines,  National  Economic  and  Developent  Author- 
ity, 1989  Philippine  Statistical  Yearbook,  Manila,  1989,  Table  15.3. 


306 


Appendix 


Table  5.  Government  Revenues,  1980,  1985,  and  1989 
(in  millions  of  pesos)  * 


1980 

1985 

1989 

Tax  revenue 

8,761 

18,655 

27,409 

196 

173 

384 

9,332 

22,677 

33,207 

Taxes  on  international  trade  and  transactions 

1  7  AAA 

Other  

640 

1,304 

3,772 

28,833 

60,253 

90,352 

Nontax  revenue 

5,020 

7,322 

20,723 

2 

3 

11 

222 

380 

1,775 

5,244 

7,705 

22,509 

TOTAL   

34,077 

67,958 

112,861 

*  For  value  of  the  peso — see  Glossary. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Philippines,  National  Economic  and  Development 
Authority,  1989  Philippine  Statistical  Yearbook,  Manila,  1989,  Table  15.2. 


Table  6.  Distribution  of  Government  Expenditures,  Selected  Years,  1965-89 

(in  percentages) 

1965  1972  1980  1985  1989 


Economic  services    16.7  33.8  41.2  33.9  19.5 

Social  services 

Education    36.5  25.1  11.0  11.9  13.1 

Other    7J_              6.5  8.9  11.6  6.1 

Total  social  services  ...  44.2  31.6  19.9  23.5  19.2 

Defense   16.7  15.7  12.5  7.7  9.1 

General  public  services    22.2  18.8  17.1  10.8  8.3 

Debt-service  fund    n.a.  n.a.  9.3  24.1  43.9 


TOTAL  *   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0 


n.a. — not  applicable. 

*  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Philippines,  National  Economic  and  Development 
Authority,  1 989  Philippine  Statistical  Yearbook,  Manila,  1989,  Table  15.3;  and  Philip- 
pines, National  Economic  and  Development  Authority,  1981  Philippine  Statistical 
Yearbook,  Manila,  1981,  Table  16.5. 


307 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Table  7.  Annual  Rate  of  Growth  of  Money  Supply 
and  Rate  of  Inflation,  1950-90 
(in  percentages) 

Money  Supply  Inflation 


Year  Growth  Rate  Rate 


1950-60    4.4  0.8 

1960-70    9.9  5.4 

1970-75    16.8  16.1 

1975-80    17.0  11.7 

1981    4.4  13.1 

1982    -0.1  10.3 

1983    38.3  10.0 

1984    3.5  50.3 

1985    6.5  23.1 

1986    19.1  0.8 

1987    22.1  3.8 

1988   14.6  8.8 

1989   31.5  10.6 

1990    n.a.  12.7 


n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Philippines,  National  Economic  and  Development 
Authority,  1989  Philippine  Statistical  Yearbook,  Manila,  1989,  Tables  2.11  and  16.1; 
"Central  Bank  Chief  Outlines  Goals  for  1991,"  Business  World  [Manila],  Febru- 
ary 1,  1991,  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  East  Asia,  Febru- 
ary 8,  1991,  54;  and  Central  Bank  of  the  Philippines,  1989  Annual  Report,  Manila, 
1990,  34. 


Table  8.  Value  Added  in  Agriculture,  Forestry,  and  Fishing  by  Sector, 
Selected  Years,  1970-90 
(in  percentages) 


Sector  1956         1961         1968         1975         1980         1985  1988 


Agricultural  crops    55.1  62.5  58.8  60.8  56.2  57.3  56.2 

Livestock 

Poultry   3.8  3.9  5.9  9.1  10.0  9.9  10.6 

Other   11.3  8.2  6.2  6.2   7J3  7.7  8.4 

Total  livestock    ...  15.1  12.1  12.1  15.3  17.3  17.6  19.0 

Forestry    13.9  8.5  10.9  6.7  6.9  5.4  5.2 

Fishing   15.8  16.8  18.1  17.2  19.6  19.6  19.5 


TOTAL  *    100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0  100.0 


*  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Philippines,  National  Economic  and  Development 
Authority,  1981  Philippine  Statistical  Yearbook  Manila,  1981,  Table  3.16;  Philippines, 
National  Economic  and  Development  Authority,  1989  Philippine  Statistical  Yearbook, 
Manila,  1989,  Table  3.13;  and  Philippines,  National  Statistical  Coordination  Board, 
The  National  Accounts  of  the  Philippines:  CY 1988  to  CY1990,  Manila,  n.d.,  Table  26. 


308 


Appendix 


Table  9.  Rates  of  Growth  of  Value  Added  in  Agriculture,  Forestry, 
and  Fishing  by  Sector,  1970-90  * 
(in  percentages) 


Sector 

1970-75 

1975-80 

1980-85 

1985-90 

Agricultural  crops 

3  7 

A  A 

u.o 

6.5 

3.3 

3.3 

4.5 

7.8 

2.9 

1.6 

2.0 

6.6 

-0.5 

-8.9 

0.3 

Bananas   

11.1 

15.6 

2.4 

-2.7 

7.7 

5.7 

1.9 

0.5 

-0.7 

1.6 

2.8 

8.5 

Poultry  

7.1 

13.6 

9.5 

7.3 

-8.6 

1.9 

-12.6 

-3.4 

4.3 

3.9 

2.7 

3.9 

Agriculture,  Forestry,  and  Fishing 

4.5 

5.2 

2.1 

2.4 

*  At  1972  prices. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Philippines,  National  Economic  and  Development 
Authority,  1981  Philippine  Statistical  Yearbook,  Manila,  1981,  Table  3.16;  Philippines, 
National  Economic  and  Development  Authority,  1 989  Philippine  Statistical  Yearbook, 
Manila,  1989,  Table  3.13;  and  Philippines,  National  Statistical  Coordination  Board, 
The  National  Accounts  of  the  Philippines:  CY 1988  to  CY1990,  Manila,  n.d.,  Table  26. 


309 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Table  10.  Structure  of  Manufacturing  Sector,  1970,  1980,  and  1987 
(in  percentages) 


Major  Group 

1970 

1980 

1987 

Food  products   

  24.4 

22.3 

23.6 

Beverages   

  5.3 

2.7 

6.7 

Tobacco   

  5.6 

3.2 

5.3 

  7.0 

7.2 

5.2 

Footwear  and  wearing  apparel   

  1.8 

2.9 

3.3 

Wood  and  cork   

  4.2 

4.0 

2.6 

  0.4 

1.0 

0.7 

Paper   

  3.2 

2.9 

2.5 

Printing   

  1.9 

1.5 

1.2 

  0.2 

0.2 

0.1 

Kubber  

  2.5 

1 .6 

1 .5 

Chemicals 

13  7 

11.5 

11.0 

Petroleum  

  8.7 

15.9 

15.1 

Nonmetallic  minerals  

  2.9 

1.0 

2.7 

Basic  metals   

  5.7 

3.9 

7.7 

  3.2 

2.5 

1.5 

  0.7 

1.3 

0.8 

Electrical  machinery  

  3.3 

4.0 

6.4 

  4.0 

4.6 

1.5 

Other   

  1.6 

0.8 

0.5 

TOTAL   

  100.0  1 

100.0  2 

100.0  1 

1  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 

2  Sum  of  entries  in  source  is  95  percent. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Philippines,  National  Economic  and  Development 
Authority,  1989  Philippine  Statistical  Yearbook,  Manila,  1989,  Table  6.4. 


Table  11.  Production,  Exports,  and  Reserves  of  Major  Minerals, 
1985,  1987,  and  1988  " 
(in  thousands  of  tons) 


 Production   Exports  Reserves 

Mineral  1985  1988  (1987)  (1987) 


Cement                               3,080.0  4,300.0  38.6  6,507,569 

Clay                                     381.4  418.3                 —  1,121,163 

Coal                                   1,257.9  1,330.0                 —  369,000 

Chromium                              272.0  190.0  105.7  56,848 

Copper                                  222.2  218.1  362.0  3,881,255 

Gold                                       0.033  0.033             0.004  101,557 

Nickel                                    28.2  10.8  483.4  1,566,101 

Pyrite                                     232.5  300.0                 0.054  988,482 

Petroleum,  crude  *               3,285.0  2,170.0                 —  16,300 


—  means  negligible. 

*  In  thousands  of  barrels. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States,  Department  of  the  Interior,  Bureau  of 
Mines,  Mineral  Yearbook,  Washington,  1990,  446-50;  Philippines,  National  Eco- 
nomic and  Development  Authority,  1989  Philippine  Statistical  Yearbook,  Manila,  1989, 
Table  4.14;  and  Edith  Hodgkinson,  The  Philippines  to  1993,  London,  1988,  74. 


310 


Appendix 


Table  12.  Income  Distribution  by  Decile,  Selected  Years,  1961-88 
(in  percentages) 


Decile 

1961 

1971 

1985 

1988 

  41.0 

37.1 

36.4 

35.7 

  15.5 

16.9 

15.7 

16.1 

Third  to  sixth  deciles   

  31.4 

34.3 

33.6 

34.0 

  12.1 

11.7 

14.3 

14.3 

TOTAL  *  

  100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

*  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Philippines,  National  Economic  and  Development 
Authority,  1989  Philippine  Statistical  Yearbook,  Manila,  1989,  Table  2.8. 


Table  13.  Balance  of  Payments,  1985-89 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1985 

1986 

1987 

1988 

1989 

4,629 

4,842 

5,720 

7,074 

7,821 

Imports   

.  -5,111 

-5,044 

-6,737 

-8,159 

-10,419 

Trade  balance   

-482 

-202 

-1,017 

-1,085 

-2,598 

Invisibles  and  private  transfers    .  . 

447 

1,156 

573 

695 

1,133 

Current  account  balance  .... 

-35 

954 

-444 

-390 

-1,465 

Direct  investment  and  other  long- 

term  capital   

3,094 

1,249 

601 

605 

1,449 

Short-term  capital   

.  -2,741 

-1,069 

-246 

-34 

-72 

Capital  account  balance  .... 

353 

180 

355 

571 

1,377 

659 

32 

-209 

480 

389 

Gold  monetization,  SDRs,*  and 

valuation  change   

160 

209 

202 

339 

161 

-1,100 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Changes  in  reserves  

-37 

-1,375 

96 

-1,000 

-462 

*  SDRs — Special  Drawing  Rights,  a  monetary  unit  of  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (see  Glossary) 
based  on  a  basket  of  the  United  States  dollar,  the  German  deutsche  mark,  the  Japanese  yen,  the 
British  pound  sterling,  and  the  French  franc. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Monetary  Fund,  Balance  of  Payments  Statistics, 
41,  Pt.  1,  Washington,  1990,  536. 


311 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Table  14.  Foreign  Investment  by  Industry,  1970-88 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


Industry 

Value 

Percentage 

Financial  institutions 

7.7 

4.6 

  357 

12.3 

Manufacturing 

Chemicals  and  chemical  products   

  394 

13.6 

  289 

10.1 

Basic  metal  products   

  169 

5.8 

2.2 

  108 

3.7 

Petroleum  and  coal   

  82 

2.8 

Metal  products  except  machinery 

34 

1.2 

Other   

  262 

8.9 

  1,401 

48.3 

Mining 

  697 

24.0 

Other   

  85 

3.0 

Total  mining   

  782 

27.0 

  125 

4.3 

  129 

4.5 

Other   

  107 

3.6 

TOTAL   

  2,901 

100.0 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Central  Bank  of  the  Philippines,  unpublished  data. 


Table  15.  Foreign  Investment  by  Country,  1970-88 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 

Country                                                                                           Value  Percentage 

United  States                                                                          1,649  56.9 

Japan                                                                                   396  13.7 

Hong  Kong                                                                             190  6.5 

Netherlands                                                                              131  4.5 

United  Kingdom                                                                       103  3.5 

Other                                                                                   432  14.9 

TOTAL                                                                             2,901  100.0 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Central  Bank  of  the  Philippines,  unpublished  data. 


312 


Appendix 


Table  16.  External  Debt,  1982-90 


Ratio  of 

Outstanding 

Debt 

Debt  to 

Ratio  of  Debt 

Year 

Debt  1 

Service  1 

GNP  2 

Service  to  Exports  3 

1982   

  24.54 

3.50 

62.5 

42.5 

3.02 

71.5 

36.3 

1984   

  24.38 

2.30 

77.2 

33.4 

1985   

  26.92 

2.57 

83.5 

32.0 

1986   

  28.37 

3.04 

94.1 

34.5 

1987   

  30.03 

3.61 

87.8 

38.5 

1988   

  29.16 

3.48 

74.8 

31.5 

1989   

  28.92 

3.38 

65.2 

26.3 

1990   

  26.97  4 

2.35 

57.9 

n.a. 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  In  billions  of  United  States  dollars. 

2  In  percentages;  GNP — gross  national  product. 

3  In  percentages. 

4  As  of  June. 


Table  17.  Official  Development  Assistance  by  Source  and 
Country,  1952-72  and  1978-88 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


Type 


Source  and  Country 

Grants 

Loans 

Total 

1952-72 

Bilateral 

  541 

50 

591 

  8 

78 

86 

Other   

  14 

11 

25 

  563 

139 

702 

  59 

343 

402 

TOTAL   

  622 

482 

1,104 

1978-88 

Bilateral 

  1,439 

361 

1,800 

Japan   

  449 

3,070 

3,519 

Other   

  448 

590 

1,038 

  2,336 

4,021 

6,357 

  292 

6,497 

6,789 

TOTAL   

  2,628 

10,518 

13,146 

*  Includes  US$48  million  from  the  Asia,  Ford,  and  Rockefeller  foundations. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Mila  Bulan,  "A  Study  of  Official  Development  As- 
sistance to  the  Philippines  FY  1952-72,"  Philippine  Economic  Journal  [Manila],  8, 
No.  3,  1974,  267;  Rigoberto  Tiglao,  "Manna  for  Manila,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 
Review  [Hong  Kong],  151,  No.  10,  March  7,  1991,  53;  and  Central  Bank  of  the 
Philippines,  unpublished  data. 


313 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Table  18.  Official  Development  Assistance  by  Source  and 
Type,  Selected  Years,  1952-90 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 

 Source    Type  


Year  Bilateral  Multilateral  Grants  Loans  Total 


1952-61    238  28  228  38  266 

1962-72    464  374  394  444  838 

1978-85    3,060  4,930  1,169  6,821  7,990 

1988    1,385  955  416  1,924  2,340 

1989    1,445  1,389  745  2,089  2,834 

1990    1,360  1,334  444  2,250  2,694 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Mila  Bulan,  "A  Study  of  Official  Development  As- 
sistance to  the  Philippines  FY  1952-72,"  Philippine  Economic  Journal  [Manila],  8, 
No.  3,  1974,  267;  Rigoberto  Tiglao,  "Manna  for  Manila,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 
Review  [Hong  Kong],  151,  No.  10,  March  7,  1991,  53;  and  Central  Bank  of  the 
Philippines,  unpublished  data. 


Table  19.  Major  Army  Equipment,  1990 


In 

Type  and  Description  Country  of  Origin  Inventory 


Tank 


Scorpion  (light)  with  76mm  gun  

Britain 

41 

Armored  personnel  carriers 

M-113   

United  States 

100 

Portugal 

20 

United  States 

165 

Armored  infantry  fighting  vehicles  (AIFV) 

-do- 

85 

Howitzers 

105mm  M-101  towed  

-do- 

n.a. 

105mm  M-102   

-do- 

n.a. 

105mm  M-26  

Spain 

n.a. 

Italy 

n.a. 

Total  105mm   

230 

Israel 

n.a. 

155mm  M-114  

United  States 

n.a. 

12 

Mortars 

81mm  M-29  

-do- 

n.a. 

107mm  M-30  

-do- 

40 

Recoilless  launchers 

75mm  M-20  

-do- 

n.a. 

90mm  M-67  

-do- 

n.a. 

106mm  M-40A1   

-do- 

n.a. 

n.a. — not  available. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1990-1991,  London,  1990,  174-75; 
Jane's  Infantry  Weapons,  1990-91,  London,  1990;  and  Jane's  Armour  and  Artillery, 
1990-91,  London,  1990. 


314 


Appendix 


Table  20.  Major  Naval  Equipment,  1990 


Type  and  Description 


Country  of  Origin 


In 

Inventory 


Navy 
Frigates 

Cannon  class   United  States  1 

Casco  class    -do-  2 

Corvettes 

Auk  class    -do-  2 

PCE-827  class    -do-  7 

Admirable  class   -do-  2 

Patrol  craft 

PC-461  class   -do-  2 

Kagitingan  class    Germany  4 

PGM-39/71  class    United  States  4 

Patrol  craft-fast  (PCF)    Various  41  1 

Amphibious  ships  and  craft 

Landing  ship,  tank  (LST-511  class)    United  States  11 

Landing  ship,  medium  (LSM)    -do-  2 

Landing  craft,  utility  (LCU)   -do-  9 

Landing  craft,  medium  (LCM)   -do-  60 

Landing  craft,  vehicle  and  personnel 

(LCVP)   -do-  6 

Naval  Aviation 

Pilatus  Britten-Norman  BN-2B  Islander 

(patrol  and  search  and  rescue)    Britain  12 

MBB  BO-105C  utility  helicopters  (search 

and  rescue)  2    Philippines  10 

Marines 

Armored  vehicles 

Armored  personnel  carrier,  V-150    United  States  18 

Armored  personnel  carrier,  LAV-25  3    -do-  36 

Landing  vehicle,  LVTP-5    -do-  18 

Landing  vehicle,  LVTH-6  (105mm 

howitzer)    -do-  20 

Landing  vehicle,  LVTP-7    -do-  55 

Artillery 

M-101  105mm,  towed    -do-  150 

Mortars 

M-30  107mm    -do-  n.a. 

M-29  81mm    -do-  n.a. 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  Thirty-five  on  order. 

2  Produced  under  license  agreement  with  Messerschmitt-Bolkow-Blom,  Germany. 

3  The  marines  were  scheduled  to  acquire  thirty-six  additional  LAV-25s  and  as  many  as  thirty  LVTP-7s. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1990-1991,  London,  1990,  174-75; 

"The  Modernisation  of  the  Philippine  Navy,"  International  Defence  Review,  23,  Janu- 
ary 1990,  88;  and  Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1990-91,  London,  1990. 


315 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Table  21.  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1990 


1  ypc  and  Description 

Country  01  Origin 

in 

Inventory 

rignter  aircraft 

United  States 

7  1 

Counterinsurgency  aircraft 

-do- 

Q 

o 

Search  and  rescue/reconnaissance  aircraft 

N  etherlands 

0 

United  States 

Q 
J 

-ao- 

A 

'x 

Transport  and  utility  aircraft 

T  nrl/ViPP^   0  —  1  QATJ  T-T<»rv-Mil#»c 

An 

Q0 

<2 
J 

T               J  T     1  An  on  U0.-„l-c 

-do- 

Q 
J 

Netherlands 

Q 
O 

— oo— 

1 
1 

P\^v..^r-lr.cT    O  A7 

United  States 

•J 
J 

N-99R  NnmaH 

Australia 

q 

Britain 

r^^oo-.^.  1  on. 

United  States 

0 

P„„„„  „    O  t  A 

An 

-oo- 

o 

-do- 

i 
i 

ni-rr;-9 

Oanada 

5 

TT-1  7  A/R 

n.a. 

Trainer  aircraft 

• 

United  States 

o 

— oo— 

Q 
O 

An 

— oo— 

90 

<sT  A.l-\Aarr-hf>tt\   <sF_9fiOA/T P/WP 

Italy 

93 

CT  A  T  IV  /f                     C    Q1  1 

— do— 

Helicopters 

Bell  UH-1H/M  Iroquois  (counterinsurgency) 

• 

United  States 

3D 

T)  „11    TTTJ     1  T_T   T«  ' 

-do- 

1  7 

Bell  205   

-do- 

15 

Sikorsky  AUH-76  (S-76  attack  version)  

-do- 

16 

McDonnell  Douglas  MD-520  (attack)   

-do- 

2 

Sikorsky  S-70A   

-do- 

2 

Bell  212   

-do- 

1 

PADC  MBB  BO-105C  (search  and  rescue)  2  .  . 

Philippines 

10 

SA-330  Pumal   

France  3 

2 

Air-to-air  missiles 

AIM-9B  Sidewinder  

United  States 

n.a. 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  Assigned  to  presidential  airlift  wing. 

2  Produced  under  license  from  Messerschmitt-Bolkow-Blom,  Germany. 

3  Principally  built  in  France,  but  also  produced  in  Romania  and  Indonesia. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1990-1991,  London,  174-75;  and 
Jane's  All  the  World's  Aircraft,  1989-90,  London,  1989. 


316 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Abaya,  Hernando  J.  Betrayal  in  the  Philippines.  New  York:  Wyn, 
1946. 

Abueva,  Jose  V.  "Ideology  and  Practice  in  the  'New  Society'." 
Pages  32-84  in  David  A.  Rosenberg  (ed.),  Marcos  and  Martial 
Law  in  the  Philippines.  Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press,  1979. 

Agoncillo,  Teodoro  A.  The  Fateful  Years:  Japan 's  Adventure  in  the  Philip- 
pines. (2  vols.)  Quezon  City,  Philippines:  Garcia,  1965. 

Arce,  Wilfredo  F.,  and  Richardo  G.  Abad.  "The  Social  Situation." 
Pages  55-69  in  John  Bresnan  (ed.),  Crisis  in  the  Philippines:  The 
Marcos  Era  and  Beyond.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press, 
1986. 

Averch,  Harvey  A.,  et  al.  The  Matrix  of  Policy  in  the  Philippines. 
Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1971. 

Beckett,  Jeremy.  "The  Defiant  and  the  Compliant:  The  datus  of 
Maguindanao  under  Colonial  Rule."  Pages  391-414  in  Alfed 
W.  McCoy  and  E.C.  de  Jesus  (eds.),  Philippine  Social  History: 
Global  Trade  and  Local  Transformations.  Honolulu:  University  of 
Hawaii  Press,  1982. 

Bonner,  Raymond.  Waltzing  with  a  Dictator:  The  Marcoses  and  the 
Making  of  American  Policy.  New  York:  Times  Books,  1987. 

Bresnan,  John  (ed.).  Crisis  in  the  Philippines:  The  Marcos  Era  and  Be- 
yond. Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1986. 

Carmen,  Rolando  V.  del.  "Constitutionality  and  Judicial  Politics." 
Pages  85-112  in  David  A.  Rosenberg  (ed.),  Marcos  and  Martial 
Law  in  the  Philippines.  Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press,  1979. 

Casambre,  Napoleon  J.  "The  Response  to  Harrison's  Adminis- 
tration in  the  Philippines,  1913-21,"  Asian  Studies  [Manila],  7, 
No.  2,  August  1969,  156-70. 

Cheong,  W.E.  "The  Decline  of  Manila  as  the  Spanish  Entrepot 
in  the  Far  East,  1785-1826:  Its  Impact  on  the  Pattern  of  Southeast 
Asian  Trade,"  Journal  of  Southeast  Asian  Studies  [Singapore],  2, 
No.  2,  September  1971,  142-58. 

Coates,  Austin.  Rizal:  Philippine  Nationalist  and  Martyr.  Hong  Kong: 
Oxford  University  Press,  1968. 

Coleman,  Ambrose.  The  Friars  in  the  Philippines .  Boston:  Marlier, 
Callanan,  1899. 

Constantino,  Renato.  Neocolonial  Identity  and  Counterconsciousness. 
White  Plains,  New  York:  Sharpe,  1978. 


317 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Cushner,  Nicholas  P.  Landed  Estates  in  the  Colonial  Philippines. 
(Southeast  Asia  Studies,  Monograph  Series,  No.  20.)  New 
Haven:  Yale  University,  1976. 

de  Morga,  Antonio.  History  of  the  Philippine  Islands,  From  Their  Dis- 
covery by  Magellan  in  1521  to  the  Beginning  of  the  XVII  Century:  With 
Descriptions  of  Japan,  China,  and  Adjacent  Countries .  (Reprint.)  New 
York:  Kraus,  1970. 

Elliot,  Charles  Burke.  The  Philippines  to  the  End  of  the  Commission 
Government:  A  Study  in  Tropical  Democracy .  New  York:  Greenwood 
Press,  1968. 

Friend,  Theodore.  Between  Two  Empires:  The  Ordeal  of  the  Philippines . 
New  Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1965. 

 The  Blue  Eyed  Enemy:  Japan  Against  the  West  in  Java  and  Lu- 
zon. Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1988. 

 .  "Philippine-American  Tensions  in  History."  Pages  3-29 

in  John  Bresnan  (ed.),  Crisis  in  the  Philippines:  The  Marcos  Era 
and  Beyond.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1986. 

Gates,  John  Morgan.  Schoolbooks  and  Krags:  The  United  States  Army 
in  the  Philippines,  1898-1902.  (Contributions  in  Miltary  Histo- 
ry, No.  3.)  Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1973. 

Gowing,  Peter  G.  Muslim  Filipinos:  Heritage  and  Horizon.  Quezon 
City,  Philippines:  New  Day,  1979. 

Hall,  D.G.E.  A  History  of  South- East  Asia.  (4th  ed.)  New  York:  St. 
Martin's  Press,  1981. 

Hill,  Hal.  "The  Philippine  Economy  in  1985:  The  Decline  Con- 
tinues." Pages  239-60  in  Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1986.  Singapore: 
Institute  of  Southeast  Asian  Studies,  1986. 

Hunt,  Chester  L.  "Philippine  Values  and  Martial  Law,"  Journal 
of  Southeast  Asian  Studies  [Singapore],  11,  No.  1,  March  1980, 
110-21. 

Kerkvliet,  Benedict  J.  The  Huk  Rebellion:  A  Study  of  Peasant  Revolt 
in  the  Philippines.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1977. 

 "Land  Reform:  Emancipation  or  Counterinsurgency?" 

Pages  113-44  in  David  A.  Rosenberg  (ed.),  Marcos  and  Martial 
Law  in  the  Philippines.  Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press,  1979. 

Kessler,  Richard  J.  "Politics  Philippine  Style,  Circa  1984,"  Asian 
Survey,  24,  No.  12,  December  1984,  1209-28. 

Lachica,  Eduardo.  The  Huks:  Philippine  Agrarian  Society  in  Revolt. 
New  York:  Praeger,  1971. 

Lande,  Carl  H.  "Authoritarian  Rule  in  the  Philippines:  Some  Crit- 
ical Views."  (A  review  article.)  Pacific  Affairs  [Vancouver],  55, 
No.  1,  Spring  1982,  80-93. 


318 


Bibliography 


 Leaders,  Factions,  and  Parties:  The  Structure  of  Philippine  Poli- 
tics. (Southeast  Asia  Studies,  Monograph  Series,  No.  6.)  New 
Haven:  Yale  University,  1964. 

 .  "The  Political  Crisis."  Pages  114-44  in  John  Bresnan 

(ed.),  Crisis  in  the  Philippines:  The  Marcos  Era  and  Beyond.  Prince- 
ton: Princeton  University  Press,  1986. 

Larkin,  John  A.  The  Pampangans:  Colonial  Society  in  a  Philippine 
Province.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1972. 

Lindsey,  Charles  W.  "Economic  Crisis  in  the  Philippines,"  Asian 
Survey,  24,  No.  12,  December  1984,  1185-1207. 

 "In  Search  of  Dynamism:  Foreign  Investment  in  the 

Philippines  under  Martial  Law,"  Pacific  Affairs  [Vancouver],  56, 
No.  3,  Fall  1983,  477-94. 

McBeth,  John.  "Conspiracy  Confirmed,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 
Review  [Hong  Kong],  150,  No.  41,  October  11,  1990,  11. 

McCoy,  Alfred  W.  "The  Philippines:  Independence  Without 
Decolonization."  Pages  22-65  in  Jeffrey  Robin  (ed.),  Asia:  The 
Winning  of  Independence.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1981. 

Magno,  Jose  P.,  Jr.,  and  A.  James  Gregor.  "Insurgency  and 
Counterinsurgency  in  the  Philippines,"  Asian  Survey,  26,  No.  5, 
May  1986,  501-17. 

Mahajani,  Usha.  Philippine  Nationalism:  External  Challenge  and  Filipino 
Response,  1565-1946.  St.  Lucia,  Queensland,  Australia:  Univer- 
sity of  Queensland  Press,  1971. 

Malin,  Herbert  S.  "The  Philippines  in  1984:  Grappling  with  Cri- 
sis," Asian  Survey,  25,  No.  2,  February  1985,  198-205. 

May,  Glenn  Anthony.  Social  Engineering  in  the  Philippines:  The  Aims, 
Execution,  and  Impact  of  American  Colonial  Policy,  1900-13.  (Con- 
tributions to  Comparative  Colonial  Studies,  No.  2.)  Westport, 
Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1980. 

May,  R.J.,  and  Francisco  Nemenzo  (eds.).  The  Philippines  after  Mar- 
cos. New  York:  St  Martin's  Press,  1985. 

Mercado,  Monina  Allarey  (ed.).  People  Power:  An  Eyewitness  Histo- 
ry of  the  Philippine  Revolution  of  1986.  New  York:  Tenth  Avenue 
Editions,  1986. 

Miller,  Stuart  Creighton.  'Benevolent  Assimilation':  The  American  Con- 
quest of  the  Philippines,  1899-1903.  New  Haven:  Yale  University 
Press,  1982. 

Molloy,  Ivan.  "Revolution  in  the  Philippines:  The  Question  of 
an  Alliance  Between  Islam  and  Communism,"  Asian  Survey,  25, 
No.  8,  August  1985,  822-33. 

Muego,  Benjamin  N.  "The  Executive  Committee  in  the  Philip- 
pines," Asian  Survey,  23,  No.  11,  November  1983,  1159-70. 

Nawawi,  Mohd.  A.  "Political  Participation  During  the  First  Five 


319 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Years  of  the  New  Society  in  the  Philippines,  "Journal  of  Southeast 
Asian  Studies  [Singapore],  13,  No.  2,  September  1982,  270-78. 

Noble,  Lela  Garner.  "Ethnicity  and  Philippine-Malaysian  Rela- 
tions," Asian  Survey,  15,  No.  5,  May  1975,  453-72. 

 "Muslim  Separatism  in  the  Philippines,  1972-81:  The 

Making  of  a  Stalemate,"  Asian  Survey,  21,  No.  11,  November 
1981,  1097-1114. 

 "The  National  Interest  and  the  National  Image:  Philip- 
pine Policy  in  Asia,"  Asian  Survey,  13,  No.  6,  June  1973,  560-76. 

 "Politics  in  the  Marcos  Era."  Pages  70-113  in  John  Bres- 

nan  (ed.),  Crisis  in  the  Philippines:  The  Marcos  Era  and  Beyond. 
Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1986. 

Overholt,  William  H.  "The  Rise  and  Fall  of  Ferdinand  Marcos," 
Asian  Survey,  26,  No.  11,  November  1986,  1137-63. 

Phelan,  John  Leddy.  The  Hispanization  of  the  Philippines:  Spanish  Aims 
and  Filipino  Responses,  1565-1700.  Madison:  University  of  Wis- 
consin Press,  1967. 

Reed,  Robert  R.  Colonial  Manila:  The  Context  of  Hispanic  Urbanism 
and  Process  of  Morphogenesis.  Berkeley:  University  of  California 
Press,  1978. 

Reid,  Anthony.  Southeast  Asia  in  the  Age  of  Commerce,  1450-1680, 
1:  The  Lands  Below  the  Winds.  New  Haven:  Yale  University  Press, 
1988. 

Rosenberg,  David  A.  "Introduction:  Creating  a  'New  Society.'  " 
Pages  13-31  in  David  A.  Rosenberg  (ed.),  Marcos  and  Martial 
Law  in  the  Philippines.  Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press,  1979. 

Sanchez,  Aurora.  "The  Philippine  Eonomic  Recovery:  Some  Is- 
sues." Pages  264-74  in  Southeast  Asian  Affairs ,  1987.  Singapore: 
Institute  of  Southeast  Asian  Studies,  1987. 

Schurz,  William  Lytie.  The  Manila  Galleon.  New  York:  Dutton, 
1959. 

Shalom,  Stephen  Rosskamm.  The  United  States  and  the  Philippines: 

A  Study  of  Neocolonialism.  Philadelphia:  Institute  for  the  Study  of 

Human  Issues,  1981. 
Silliman,  G.  Sidney.  "The  Philippines  in  1983:  Authoritarianism 

Beleaguered,"  Asian  Survey,  24,  No.  2,  February  1984,  149-58. 
Stanley,  Peter  W.  A  Nation  in  the  Making:  The  Philippines  and  the  United 

States,  1899-1921.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1974. 
 .  Reappraising  an  Empire:  New  Perspectives  on  Philippine-American 

History.  (Harvard  Studies  in  American-East  Asia  Relations,  No. 

10.)  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1984. 
Stauffer,  Robert  B.  "Philippine  Corporatism:  A  Note  on  the  'New 

Society,'  "  Asian  Survey,  17,  No.  4,  April  1977,  343-407. 


320 


Bibliography 


Steinberg,  David  Joel.  The  Philippines:  A  Singular  and  a  Plural  Place. 
(2d  ed.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1990. 

 "Tradition  and  Response."  Pages  30-54  in  John  Bres- 

nan  (ed.),  Crisis  in  the  Philippines:  The  Marcos  Era  and  Beyond. 
Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1986. 

Steinberg,  David  Joel  (ed.).  In  Search  of  Southeast  Asia:  A  Modern  His- 
tory. (Rev.  ed.)  Honolulu:  University  of  Hawaii  Press,  1987. 

Sturtevant,  David  R.  Popular  Uprisings  in  the  Philippines ,  1840-1940. 
Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press,  1976. 

Suhrke,  Astri.  "Political  Rituals  in  Developing  Nations:  The  Case 
of  the  Philippines, "  Journal  of  Southeast  Asian  Studies  [Singapore], 
2,  No.  2,  September  1971,  126-41. 

Tarling,  Nicholas.  Sulu  and  Sabah:  A  Study  of  British  Policy  Toward 
the  Philippines  and  North  Borneo  from  the  late  18th  Century.  Kuala  Lum- 
pur: Oxford  University  Press,  1978. 

Timberman,  David  G.  "Unfinished  Revolution:  The  Philippines 
in  1986."  Pages  239-63  in  Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1987.  Singa- 
pore: Institute  of  Southeast  Asian  Studies,  1987. 

Villanueva,  Honesto  A.  "The  Independence  Mission  1919:  In- 
dependence Lies  Ahead,"  Asian  Studies  [Manila],  9,  No.  3,  De- 
cember 1971,  282-306. 

Villegas,  Bernardo  M.  "The  Economic  Crisis."  Pages  145-75  in 
John  Bresnan  (ed.),  Crisis  in  the  Philippines:  The  Marcos  Era  and 
Beyond.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1986. 

 .  "The  Philippines  in  1985:  Rolling  with  the  Political 

Punches,"  Asian  Survey,  26,  No.  2,  February  1986,  127-40. 

 "The  Philippines  in  1986:  Democratic  Reconstruction  in 

the  Post-Marcos  Era,"  Asian  Survey,  27,  No.  2,  February  1987, 
194-205. 

Wickberg,  Edgar.  The  Chinese  in  Philippine  Life,  1850-98.  New 

Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1965. 
Wolff,  Leon.  Little  Brown  Brother:  America's  Forgotten  Bid  for  Empire 

Which  Cost  250,000  Lives.  London:  Longmans,  1961.  Reprint. 

New  York:  Kraus,  1970. 
Youngblood,  Robert  L.  "The  Corazon  Aquino  'Miracle'  and  the 

Philippine  Churches,"  Asian  Survey,  27,  No.  12,  December  1987, 

1240-55. 

 .  "The  Philippines  in  1981:  From  'New  Society'  to  'New 

Republic',"  Asian  Survey,  22,  No.  2,  February  1982,  226-35. 

 "The  Philippines  in  1982:  Marcos  Gets  Tough  with 

Domestic  Critics,"  Asian  Survey,  23,  No.  2,  February  1983, 
208-16. 

 "The  Philippines  in  1985:  A  Continuing  Crisis  of 


321 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Confidence."  Pages  225-38  in  Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1986.  Sin- 
gapore: Institute  of  Southeast  Asian  Studies,  1986. 
Zaide,  Gregorio  F.  The  Pageant  of  Philippine  History.  (2  vols.)  Manila: 
Philippine  Education,  1979. 

Chapter  2 

Abueva,  Jose  Veloso.  "Internationalizing  Higher  Education  Values 
and  Ethics,"  Philippine  Studies  Newsletter,  17,  No.  2,  June  1989, 
22-29. 

Adem,  Elisea  S.  "Scavengers:  Forced  to  Remain  at  the  Bottom 
of  the  Heap,"  Intersect  [Quezon  City,  Philippines],  4,  No.  10, 
October  1990,  4-5. 

Alfiler,  Ma.  Concepcion  P.  "Group  Dynamics  in  the  Philippines: 
Explorations  in  the  Literature,"  Philippine  Journal  of  Public  Ad- 
ministration [Manila],  29,  No.  1,  January  1985,  59-60,  77-80. 

Aligre-Mogol,  Martha.  "The  Future  of  English  in  the  Education 
System."  Pages  134-38  in  Andrew  B.  Gonzales  (ed.),  The  Role 
of  English  and  Its  Maintenance  in  the  Philippines:  The  Transcript,  Con- 
sensus, and  Papers  on  the  Solidarity  Seminar  on  Languages  and  Develop- 
ment. Manila:  Solidaridad,  1989. 

Andres,  Tomas.  Understanding  Filipino  Values:  A  Management  Approach. 
Manila:  New  Day,  1981. 

Aquino,  Belinda.  "The  Time  Has  Come,"  Philippine  Studies 
[Quezon  City,  Philippines],  3,  No.  3,  October  1988,  2. 

Aquino,  Enrica.  "Natural  Fertility  in  the  Philippines,"  Philippine 
Sociological  Review  [Manila],  30,  Nos.  1-4,  January-December 
1982,  3-14. 

Arquiza,  Yasmin  D.  "Toll  on  the  Atoll,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 
[Hong  Kong],  147,  No.  11,  March  15,  1990,  32-34. 

Babst-Vokey,  Arlene.  "Patterns  of  Language  Use  in  Print  Me- 
dia. ' '  Pages  89-90  in  Andrew  B.  Gonzales  (ed.),  The  Role  of  En- 
glish and  Its  Maintenance  in  the  Philippines:  The  Transcript,  Consensus, 
and  Papers  on  the  Solidarity  Seminar  on  Languages  and  Development. 
Manila:  Solidaridad,  1989. 

Balfour,  Freddie.  "Looking  For  AIDS,  Joe?"  Far  Eastern  Econom- 
ic Review  [Hong  Kong],  136,  No.  15,  April  9,  1987,  112-13. 

Bauzon,  Kenneth.  Liberalism  and  the  Quest  for  Islamic  Identity  in  the 
Philippines.  Durham,  North  Carolina:  Acorn  Press,  1991. 

Bengzon,  Alfredo.  "1987  Accomplishments  of  the  Department  of 
Health."  Pages  150,  284  in  Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Fookien 
Times  Philippines  Yearbook,  1987-88.  Manila:  Fookien  Times, 
1989. 


322 


Bibliography 


Benton,  Richard.  "The  Philippine  Bilingual  Education  Program: 
Education  for  the  Masses  or  the  Preparation  of  a  New  Elite?" 
Philippine  Journal  of  Linguistics  [Manila],  11,  No.  2,  December 
1984,  1-14. 

Bernabe,  Emma  J.  Fonaciar.  Language  Policy  Formation,  Program- 
ming, Implementation,  and  Evaluation  in  Philippine  Education 
(1565-1974).  (Monograph  No.  25.)  Manila:  Linguistic  Society 
of  the  Philippines,  1987. 

Borinsing,  Manaros.  "Upland  Bangsa  Filipino:  Concept  Paper  on 
the  Proposed  Program  for  Islamic  Universal  Education  in 
Southern  Philippines,"  Technician  [Manila]  1,  No.  2,  Decem- 
ber 1983,  719-92. 

Bulatao,  Jaime.  "Roman  Theology  Meets  Animistic  Culture," 
Kinaadman  [Cagayan  de  Oro,  Philippines],  6,  No.  1,  1984, 
102-10. 

Bulatao,  Rodolfo  A.  "Attitudes  Toward  Divorce  in  a  National  Sam- 
ple," Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  26,  Nos.  3-4,  July- 
October  1978,  239-42. 

 "The  Double  Standard  in  Sex  Roles."  Philippine  Sociolog- 
ical Review  [Manila],  26,  Nos.  3-4,  July-October  1978,  203. 

Butalid,  Timoteo  G.  "Squatter  Participation  and  Urban  Develop- 
ment: The  Manila  Experience,"  Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  121, 
January-June  1989,  167. 

Carballo,  Roque  L.  "The  Population  Debate:  Growth  or  Control?" 
Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  126,  April-June  1990,  147-59. 

Casal,  Gabriel,  et  al.  The  People  and  Art  of  the  Philippines.  Los  An- 
geles: Museum  of  Cultural  History,  University  of  California, 
1981. 

Casper,  Gretchen.  "The  Changing  Politicization  of  the  Philippine 
Roman  Catholic  Church,  1972-1988,"  Pilipinas,  No.  13,  Fall 

1989,  43-56. 

Castillo,  Gelia  T.  Beyond  Manila:  Philippine  Rural  Problems  in  Perspec- 
tive. Ottawa:  International  Development  Research  Center,  1979. 

 "Has  Bayanihan  Gone  Out  of  Style?"  Philippine  Agricul- 
turist [Laguna,  Philippines],  65,  October-December  1982, 
314-25. 

Che,  Man,  W.K.  Muslim  Separatism:  The  Mows  of  Southern  Philip- 
pines and  the  Malays  of  Southern  Thailand.  (Southeast  Asian  Social 
Science  Monographs.)  Singapore:  Oxford  University  Press,  1990. 

Churchill,  Malcolm  H.  "An  Unconditional  Look  at  the  Philip- 
pines," Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  122,  April-June  1989,  121-28. 

Concepcion,  Mercedes.  "The  Philippine  Population  Program: 
Where  Is  It  Now?"  Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  126,  April-June 

1990,  124. 


323 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Costello,  Marilou  Palibrica.  "Book  Review  of  Alice  K.  Wong  and 
Shui  Meng  Ng's  Ethnicity  and  Fertility  in  Southeast  Asia:  A  Com- 
parative Analysis,"  Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  34,  Nos. 
1-4,  January-December  1986,  110-11. 

Costello,  Michael  A.  "Economic  Development  and  Income  In- 
equality in  Northern  Mindanao,"  Philippine  Sociological  Review 
[Manila],  51,  Nos.  1-2,  January-June  1983,  53-66. 

 "Plans  to  Out-Migrate  Among  Rural  Youth:  A  Research 

Note,"  Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  35,  Nos.  1-2, 
January-June  1987,  47-54. 

 "Population  Growth  and  Distribution."  Pages  327-97  in 

Chester  L.  Hunt,  et  al.  (eds.),  Sociology  in  the  Philippine  Setting. 
Quezon  City,  Philippines:  Phoenix,  1987. 

Costello,  Michael,  and  Marilou  Palabrica  Costello.  "Changing  Pat- 
terns of  Residential  Segregation  by  Occupational  Status  in  a 
Philippine  City,"  Philippine  Studies  [Quezon  City,  Philippines], 
32,  1982,  290-304. 

 "Correlates  of  High  School  Seniors'  Scores  on  the  Na- 
tional College  Entrance  Exam:  Implications  for  the  Life  Chances 
of  Disadvantaged  Rural  Youth,"  Philippine  Sociological  Review 
[Manila],  29,  Nos.  1-4,  January-December  1981,  59-71. 

Costello,  Michael  A.,  et  al.  "Community  Modernization,  In- 
Migration  and  Ethnic  Diversification:  The  Philippines,"  Philip- 
pine Sociological  Review  [Manila],  30,  Nos.  1-4,  January-December 
1982,  3-14. 

Cushman,  Jennifer,  and  Wang  Gungwu  (eds.).  "Review  of 
'Changing  Identities  of  Southeast  Asian  Chinese  since  World 
War  II,'  "  The  Journal  of  Asian  Studies,  49,  No.  2,  May  1990, 
432-33. 

Dayrit,  Manuel  M.,  and  Guilbert  P.  Aquitania.  "The  Pharmaceu- 
tical Industry:  Public  Policy  and  Proposed  Legislation,"  Solidarity 
[Manila],  No.  118,  May-June  1988,  45-48. 

De  Tavera,  Mita  Pardo.  "DWSD:  Responding  to  the  Disadvan- 
taged," Page  287  in  Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Fookien  Times 
Philippines  Yearbook,  1987-88.  Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1989. 

Drilon,  Franklin.  "A  Better  Year  for  Labor."  Pages  162,  286  in 
Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Fookien  Times  Philippines  Yearbook, 
1987-88.  Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1989. 

Eder,  James  F.  On  the  Road  to  Extinction:  Depopulation,  Deculturation, 
and  Adaptive  Well- Being  Among  the  Batak  of  the  Philippines.  Berkeley: 
University  of  California  Press,  1987. 

 "Tribal  Ancestral  Lands  and  Cultural  Survival  or  the 

'Negrito  Case,'  "  Pilipinas,  9,  Fall  1987,  9. 

Einsiedel,  Nathaniel.  "Informal  Land  Development  in  Metro 


324 


Bibliography 


Fringe  Areas,"  Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  121,  January -June  1989, 
174-78. 

Elle vera- Lamb verte,  Exaltacion.  "Macro-Level  Indication  of  Up- 
land Poverty,"  Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  31,  Nos. 
1-2,  January-June  1983,  19-52. 

Elwood,  Douglas.  Churches  and  Sects  in  the  Philippines.  Dumaguete 
City,  Philippines:  Silliman  University  Press,  1968. 

 .  Faith  Encounters  Ideology.  Quezon  City,  Philippines:  New 

Day,  1985. 

Enriquez,  Virgilio  C.  "Filipino  Values:  Towards  a  New  Interpre- 
tation (Using  Local  Language  as  a  Resource),"  Philippine  Studies 
Newsletter,  16,  No.  3,  October  1988,  29-34. 

"Epidemiology  of  HIV  Infection  among  Prostitutes  in  the  Philip- 
pines," Journal  of  Acquired  Immune  Deficiency,  3,  No.  9,  1990, 
913-20. 

Eviota,  Elizabeth.  "Sex  as  a  Differentiating  Variable  in  Work  and 
Power  Relations,"  Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  26,  Nos. 
3-4,  July-October  1978,  151-58. 

Federal  Republic  of  Germany.  Statistisches  Bundesant.  Landerbericht, 
Philippinen.  Wiesbaden:  1989. 

Fegan,  Brian.  "Establishment  Fund,  Population  Increase,  and 
Changing  Class  Structures  in  Central  Luzon,"  Philippine  Socio- 
logical Review  [Manila],  31,  Nos.  3-4,  July-December  1983, 
31-43. 

 "Land  Reform  and  Technical  Change  in  Central  Luzon: 

The  Rice  Industry  under  Martial  Law,"  Philippine  Sociological 
Review  [Manila],  31,  Nos.  1-2,  January-June  1986,  67-86. 

Fernandez,  Doreen  G.  "Mass  Culture  and  Cultural  Policy:  The 
Philippine  Experience,"  Philippine  Studies  [Quezon  City,  Philip- 
pines], No.  37,  1989,  485-502. 

Fookien  Times  Philippines  Yearbook,  1987-88.  (Ed.,  Betty  Go  Bel- 
monte.)  Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1989. 

Garcia,  Manuel  B.,  Francisco  M.  Zulueta,  and  Cynthia  T.  Caritati- 
vo.  Sociology:  Focus  on  Filipino  Society  and  Culture.  Manila:  National 
Book  Store,  1984. 

Gilandas,  Alex,  C.  Gastardo-Conaco,  and  Judy  C.  Servilla.  Sex 
and  the  Single  Filipina:  The  Omega  Woman.  Manila:  Philippine  Edu- 
cation, 1982. 

Godley,  M.R.  "Reflections  on  China's  Changing  Overseas  Chinese 
Policy,"  Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  123,  July-September  1989, 
108-12. 

Gonzales,  Andrew  B.  "English  in  the  Philippines:  Where  To?" 
Pages  13-19  in  Andrew  B.  Gonzales  (ed.),  The  Role  of  English 
and  Its  Maintenance  in  the  Philippines:  The  Transcript,  Consensus,  and 


325 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Papers  of  the  Solidarity  Seminar  on  Languages  and  Development.  Manila: 
Solidaridad,  1989. 

 ''The  Present  Role  and  Domains  of  English  in  the  Philip- 
pines." Pages  1-140  in  Andrew  B.  Gonzales  (ed.),  The  Role  of 
English  and  Its  Maintenance  in  the  Philippines:  The  Transcript,  Con- 
sensus, and  Papers  of  the  Solidarity  Seminar  on  Languages  and  Develop- 
ment. Manila:  Solidaridad,  1989. 

Gonzales,  Hernando  V.,  and  Josefina  R.  Cortes.  "The  Philip- 
pines." Page  998  in  George  T.  Kurian  (ed.),  World  Education 
Encyclopedia.  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1986. 

Gorospe,  Vitaliano  R.  "Philippine  Church  and  Government  on 
Population,"  Philippine  Studies  [Quezon  City,  Philippines],  36, 
No.  2,  1988,  233-39. 

Go  wing,  Peter  G.  (ed.).  Understanding  Islam  and  Muslims  in  the  Philip- 
pines. Quezon  City,  Philippines:  New  Day,  1988. 

Hakenberg,  Robert  A.,  and  Henry  F.  Magalit.  Demographic 
Responses  to  Development:  Sources  of  Declining  Fertility  in  the  Philip- 
pines. Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

Henning,  Robert  P.  "Philippine  Values  in  Perspective:  An  Ana- 
lytical Framework,"  Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  31, 
Nos.  3-4,  July-October  1969,  108-113. 

Hirtz,  Frank.  "Rural  Population  in  the  Philippines  and  the  Role 
of  State  Intervention  in  Rural  Social  Policy,"  Pilipinas,  No.  12, 
Spring  1989,  155-71. 

Hunt,  Chester  L.  "Moslem  and  Christian  in  the  Philippines,"  Pa- 
cific Affairs  [Vancouver],  28,  No.  4,  December  1955,  331-49. 

 "Patterns  of  Social  Distance  Attitudes."  Page  176  in 

Chester  L.  Hunt,  et  al.  (eds.),  Sociology  in  the  Philippine  Setting. 
Quezon  City,  Philippines:  Phoenix,  1987. 

 .  "Philippine  Population  Growth  Shatters  Development 

Plans,"  Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  118,  May-June  1988,  191-96. 

Hunt,  Chester  L.,  and  Charles  Houston.  "Changing  Status  of 
Chinese  in  the  Philippines,"  Internationales  Asienforum  [Munich], 
10,  May  1979,  197-207. 

Hunt,  Chester  L.,  and  Luis  Q.  Lacar.  "Social  Distance  and  Ameri- 
can Policy  in  the  Philippines,"  Sociology  &  Social  Research,  57, 
July  1973,  495-509. 

Hunt,  Chester  L.,  et  al.  Sociology  in  the  Philippine  Setting.  (4th  ed.) 
Quezon  City,  Philippines:  Phoenix,  1987. 

Husen,  Torsten,  andT.  Neville  Postlethwaite.  The  International  En- 
cyclopedia of  Education.  New  York:  Pergamon,  1985. 

Ibarra,  T.E.  "Women  Migrants:  Focus  on  Domestic  Helpers," 
Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  22,  No.  2,  April  1979,  54. 

Ilerida,  Ruth  Romeros.  "The  Family  Code  Takes  a  Giant  Leap 


326 


Bibliography 


Forward."  Pages  172-250  in  Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Fookien 
Times  Philippines  Yearbook,  1987-88.  Manila:  Fookien  Times, 
1989. 

Jocano,  F.  Linda.  "Conversion  and  the  Patterning  of  Christian 
Experience  in  Maitbog,  Central  Panay,  Philippines,"  Philippine 
Sociological  Review  [Manila],  13,  No.  2,  April  1965,  96-119. 

Johnson,  Nan  E.,  and  Linda  M.  Burton.  "Religion  and  Reproduc- 
tion in  Philippine  Society:  A  New  Test  of  the  Minority-Group 
Status  Hypothesis,"  Sociological  Analysis,  48,  No.  3,  Fall  1987, 
217-33. 

Joyce,  Richard  E.,  and  Chester  L.  Hunt.  "Philippine  Nurses  and 
the  Brain  Drain,"  Social  Science  and  Medicine,  16,  1982,  123-33. 

Juico,  Phillip  Ella.  "Department  of  Agrarian  Reform  Report." 
Pages  142-278  in  Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Fookien  Times  Philip- 
pines Yearbook,  1987-88.  Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1989. 

Kasilag,  Lucretia  R.  "The  Performing  Arts  Scene:  1987-88."  Page 
188  in  Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Fookien  Times  Philippines  Year- 
book, 1987-88.  Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1989. 

Kerkvliet,  Benedict  J.  "Classes  and  Class  Relations  in  a  Philip- 
pine Village,"  Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  27,  Nos. 
1-4,  January-December  1979,  32. 

Kikuchi,  Kyoko.  "Filipino  Women  and  Social  Stratificaton," 
Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  126,  April-June  1990,  90. 

Kimura,  Masataka.  "Philippine  Peasant  and  Labor  Organizations 
in  Electoral  Politics:  Players  of  Traditional  Politics,"  Pilipinas, 
No.  14,  Spring  1990,  61-64. 

Lacar,  Luis.  Muslim  Christian  Marriages  in  the  Philippines.  Quezon 
City,  Philippines:  New  Day,  1980. 

 "Neglected  Dimensions  in  the  Development  of  Muslim 

Mindanao  and  the  Continuing  Struggle  of  the  Moro  People  for 
Self-Determination,  "Journal  of  Institute  of  Muslim  Minority  Affairs 
[London],  9,  No.  4,  July  1988,  296-310. 

Lacar,  Luis  O.,  and  Carmelita  S.  Lacar.  "Maranao  Muslim 
Migration  and  Its  Impact  on  Migrant  Children,"  Philippine  Studies 
[Quezon  City,  Philippines],  37,  1989,  3-14. 

Lapira,  Faustino.  "English  on  Radio-TV?"  Pages  97-100  in  An- 
drew B.  Gonzales  (ed.),  The  Role  of  English  and  Its  Maintenance 
in  the  Philippines :  The  Transcript,  Consensus,  and  Papers  of  the  Solidarity 
Seminar  on  Languages  and  Development.  Manila:  Solidaridad,  1989. 

Lawless,  Robert.  "A  Comparative  Analysis  of  Two  Studies  on 
'Utang  Na  Loob,'  "  Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  14, 
No.  3,  July  1966,  35. 

Ledesma,  Antonio  J.,  S.J.  "A  Typology  of  Filipino  Peasants  in 


327 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


the  1980s,"  Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  29,  Nos.  1-4, 
1981,  35. 

Lee,  Albert  C.  "Notes  from  the  Underground  Economy,"  Philip- 
pine Panorama  [Manila],  September  15,  1985,  14-16. 

Logarta-Avila,  Josephine.  "And  They  Call  It  Rhythm:  The  Prac- 
tice of  Periodic  Abstinence  in  Bicol  and  the  Visayas  Regions: 
A  Report  Based  on  the  1984  National  Family  Planning  Survey," 
Philippine  Quarterly  of  Culture  and  Society  [Cebu  City,  Philippines], 
13,  No.  2,  June  1985,  99-166. 

Lumandong,  Tony.  "The  Meaning  of  Education  for  Tribal  Filipi- 
nos," Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  122,  April-June  1989,  61-62. 

Lynch,  Frank,  S.J.  "The  Catholic  Church:  Philippines  Silent  Part- 
ner in  Population  Control."  Page  197  in  Vitaliano  R.  Gorospe 
(ed.),  Freedom  and  Population  Control.  Quezon  City,  Philippines: 
New  Day,  1976. 

 .  Philippine  Peace  Corps  Survey.  Honolulu:  University  of 

Hawaii  Press,  1966. 

 "Philippine  Values  II — Social  Acceptance,"  Philippine 

Studies  [Quezon  City,  Philippines],  No.  10,  1962,  82-89. 

 .  "Social  Acceptance  Reconsidered."  Pages  23-92  in  Aram 

A.  Yengoyan  and  Perla  Q.  Makil  (eds.),  Philippine  Society  and 
the  Individual:  Selected  Essays  of  Frank  Lynch,  1949-1976.  Ann  Ar- 
bor: University  of  Michigan  Press,  1984. 

McAndrew,  John  P.  "Urbanization  and  Social  Differentiation  in 
a  Philippine  Village,"  Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  37, 
Nos.  1-2,  January-June  1989,  26-37. 

McBeth,  John.  "People  Powerless,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 
[Hong  Kong],  148,  No.  19,  May  10,  1990,  36-37. 

McBeth,  John,  and  Rigoberto  Tiglao.  "Still  On  Track,"  Far  Eastern 
Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  149,  No.  31,  August  2,  1990,  37. 

McDonagh,  Sean.  "Modernization,  Multinationals,  and  Tribal 
Filipinos,"  Solidarity  [Manila],  4,  No.  97,  1983,  73-82. 

Mackie,  Jamie.  "Chinese  Businessmen  and  the  Rise  of  Southeast 
Asian  Capitalism,"  Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  123,  July-September 
1989,  96-107. 

Madigan,  Francis  C,  S.J.,  with  assistance  of  Makilou  D.  Tabor, 
Medriatrix  Palma,  and  Lourdes  Wong.  "Where  Trees  Are  Few- 
er: Attitudes  on  Forest  Development  of  a  Forest  Dwelling  Peo- 
ple," Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  35,  Nos.  1-2, 
January-June  1987,  26-38. 

Magallanes,  Josefina.  "Human  Nutrition:  The  Impact  of  Family 
Size  and  Income  on  Dietary  Intake,"  Philippine  Sociological  Review 
[Manila],  32,  Nos.  1-4,  January-December  1984,  69-80. 


328 


Bibliography 


Mananzan,  Mary  John.  "Women  and  Health,"  Solidarity  [Mani- 
la], 32,  Nos.  1-4,  May-June  1988,  82-84. 

Manuel,  E.  Arsenic  Chinese  Words  in  the  Tagalog  Language.  Mani- 
la: Philipiniana,  1948. 

Marti,  Thomas.  "Fundamentalist  Sects  and  the  Political  Right," 
International  Solidarity  Network  Desk,  National  Council  of  Churches  in 
the  Philippines  [Manila],  October  23,  1986,  8  pp. 

Matarongan,  Rita.  "Sex  and  the  Filipino  Adolescent:  A  Review," 
Philippine  Studies  [Quezon  City,  Philippines],  No.  30,  1982, 
311-34. 

Medina,  Belen  T.  "The  New  Wave:  Latest  Findings  on  Filipino 
Immigration  in  the  United  States,"  Philippine  Sociological  Review 
[Manila],  32,  Nos.  1-4,  January-December  1984,  135-43. 

Miralao,  Virginia  A.  Male  and  Female  Status  and  Changing  Roles  of 
Women.  Quezon  City,  Philippines:  Institute  of  Philippine  Cul- 
ture, Ateneo  De  Manila  University  Press,  1985. 

 "Women's  Programs:  Which  Direction?"  Philippine  So- 
ciological Review  [Manila],  26,  Nos.  3-4,  July-October  1978, 
243-48. 

Mydans,  Seth.  "An  Asian  Tale:  Young  Girls,  Red  Roses,"  New 
York  Times  Magazine,  April  2,  1989,  48. 

 "Inside  the  Rebel  Camp:  A  Different  Kind  of  Revolt," 

New  York  Times,  February  13,  1989,  Section  A,  4. 

 .  "Philippine  Town,  Child  Prostitution  Despite  Protests," 

New  York  Times,  February  5,  1989,  International  Section,  3. 

Nakpil,  Carmen  Guerrero.  "The  Filipino  Woman,"  The  Philip- 
pine Quarterly  [Cebu  City,  Philippines],  2,  No.  3.  March  1952, 
8-17. 

Netzog,  Morton  J.  Backward,  Turn  Backward.  Manila:  National  Book 
Store,  1985.  " 

Nicolas,  Fort,  Jr.,  andjojo  deLeon.  "Spiritual  Renewal:  The  Philip- 
pine Experience."  Page  40  in  Commission  on  Evangelism  and  Ecu- 
menical Relations:  Exploring  the  New  Religious  Movements  in  the 
Philippines.  National  Council  of  Churches  in  the  Philippines,  1989. 

Noble,  Lela  Garner.  "Religion  and  Opposition  to  the  Marcos  Re- 
gime," Pilipinas,  No.  13,  Fall  1989,  73-88. 

O'Shaughnessy,  Thomas  J.  "Christian-Muslim  Empathy  in  an 
Hour  of  Crisis,"  The  Ecumenist,  September-October  1974,  87-90. 

Oracion,  Enrique  Galen.  "Ethnicity,  Intermarriage,  and  Change 
in  the  Biosocial  Structure  of  the  Contemporary  Negrito  Popu- 
lation in  Southern  Negros,"  Silliman  Journal  [Dumaguete  City, 
Philippines],  31,  Nos.  3-4,  1983,  102-10. 

Ortanes,  Fe  T.  "The  State  of  English  Language  Teaching  in  the 
Educational  System  Today."  Pages  81-86  in  Andrew  B. 


329 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Gonzales  (ed.),  The  Role  of  English  and  Its  Maintenance  in  the  Philip- 
pines: The  Transcript,  Consensus,  and  Papers  of  the  Solidarity  Seminar 
on  Languages  and  Development.  Manila:  Solidaridad,  1989. 

Osias,  Camilo.  Philippine  Social  Life.  New  York:  Ginn,  1940. 

Pablo,  Renato  Y.,  and  Richard  C.  Gardner.  "Ethnic  Stereotypes 
of  Filipino  Children  and  Their  Parents,"  Philippine  Studies 
[Quezon  City,  Philippines],  35,  1987,  332-47. 

Pal,  Agaton  P.  "The  People's  Conception  of  the  World  in  a  Philip- 
pine Barrio:  A  Social  Organization  in  Relation  to  Planned  So- 
cial Change."  Pages  390-98  in  Soccoro  Espiritu  and  Chester 
L.  Hunt  (eds.),  Social  Foundations  of  Community  Development:  Read- 
ings on  the  Philippines.  Manila:  Garcia,  1964. 

Peralta,  Jesus  T.  "Ethnicity  Maintenance  and  National  Educa- 
tion," Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  122,  April-June  1989,  48-53. 

Perez,  Aurora.  "Migration  in  the  Philippines."  Page  356  in  Philip 
Hauser,  Daniel  B.  Suits,  and  Naohiro  Ogawa  (eds.),  Urbaniza- 
tion and  Migration  in  ASEAN  Development.  Tokyo:  National  Insti- 
tute for  Research  Advancement,  1985. 

Pernia,  Ernesto  M.  "The  Population  Development  Link,"  Solidarity 
[Manila],  No.  118,  May-June  1988,  21-28. 

 .  "Public  Health  and  Population:  Pressing  Issues  of  Our 

Time,"  Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  118,  May-June  1988,  15. 

Pertierra,  Raul.  Religion,  Politics,  and  Rationality  in  a  Philippine  Com- 
munity. Quezon  City,  Philippines:  Ateneo  De  Manila  Universi- 
ty Press,  1988. 

Pineda,  Rosalinda  V.  "Focus  on  Filipino  Rural  Woman,"  Philip- 
pine Sociological  Review  [Manila],  29,  Nos.  1-4,  January-December 
1981,  103-10. 

Porter,  Gareth,  and  Delfin  J.  Ganapin,  Jr.  Resources,  Population, 
and  the  Philippines  Future:  A  Case  Study.  (World  Resources  Insti- 
tute, Paper  No.  4.)  Washington:  World  Resources  Institute, 
1988. 

Postma,  Antoon.  "Formal  Education  among  the  Mangyans," 
Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  122,  April-June  1989,  54-60. 

Purcell,  Victor.  Chinese  in  Southeast  Asia.  London:  Oxford  Univer- 
sity Press,  1950. 

Quisumbing,  Lourdes.  "Activities  and  Accomplishments  for 
1987."  Pages  152-283  in  Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Fookien  Times 
Philippines  Yearbook,  1987-88.  Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1989. 

Rasul,  Jainal  D.  "Muslim-Christian  Relations  at  the  Grass  Roots 
Level,"  Dansalan  Quarterly  [Marawi  City,  Philippines],  5,  No. 
3,  April  1984,  137-56. 

Raymundo,  Corazon  M.  "The  National  Population  Situation  and 
Planning,"  Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  118,  May-June  1988,  49-55. 


330 


Bibliography 


Regis,  Fedelina  F.  "The  Health  Situation  in  Manila,"  Solidarity 
[Manila],  No.  118,  May-June  1988,  85-90. 

Richardson,  Jim.  The  Philippines.  Denver:  Clio  Press,  1989. 

Richter,  Linda  K.  "The  Constitutional  Rights  of  Women  in  the 
Post-Marcos  Philippines,"  Pilipinas,  No.  11,  Fall  1990,  33-46. 

 .  "Introduction  to  Symposium  on  Religion  and  Politics  in 

the  Philippines,"  Pilipinas,  No.  13,  Fall  1989,  41. 

Rivera,  Temario  C.  "Capitalist  Penetration  into  Agriculture:  Some 
Issues  on  Land  Concentration  and  Class  Differentiation,"  Philip- 
pine Sociological  Review  [Manila],  31,  Nos.  3-4,  July-December 
1983,  27-30. 

Roberts,  W.  Dayton,  and  John  A.  Stewart  (eds.).  Mission  Hand- 
book. (14th  ed.)  Monrovia,  California:  Marc  and  Zonervan,  1987. 

Rosenberg,  David  A.  "Political  and  Economic  Reform  in  the 
Aquino  Government."  Pages  33-50  in  Stephen  R.  Davis,  L.L. 
Dieterich,  and  T.  Mitchell  (eds.),  The  Philippines  in  Southeast  Asia. 
Washington:  GPO,  1989. 

Rutten,  Rosanne.  Women  Workers  of  Hacienda  Milagros:  Wage  Labor 
and  Household  Subsistence  on  a  Philippine  Sugar  Plantation.  (Depart- 
ment of  South  and  Southeast  Asian  Studies.)  Amsterdam: 
University  of  Amsterdam,  1982. 

Santiago,  Miriam  Defensor.  "Comments  on  Immigration  and 
Deportation."  Page  128  in  Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Fookien  Times 
Philippines  Yearbook,  1987-88.  Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1989. 

Sevilla,  Judy  Carol.  Research  on  the  Filipino  Family:  Review  and 
Prospects.  Pasig,  Metro  Manila:  Development  Academy  of  the 
Philippines,  1982. 

Silliman,  R.G.  "Assessing  the  Bilingual  Policy  in  Education:  The 
Visay an  Viewpoint,"  Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  26, 
No.  2,  April  1978,  111-17. 

Sin,  Cardinal  Jaime.  "When  Will  the  Poor  Bless  Us,"  Intersect 
[Quezon  City],  4,  No.  10,  October  1990,  10. 

Snow,  Robert.  "Industrialization  and  Its  Impact  on  Women  Work- 
ers: The  Case  of  the  Bataan  Export  Processing  Zone  in  the  Phil- 
ippines," Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  26,  Nos.  3-4, 
July-October  1978,  191. 

Solon,  Orville.  "The  Urban  Poor:  Their  Case  From  Selected  Com- 
munites  in  Metro  Manila,  Cebu,  and  Davao,"  Philippine  Eco- 
nomic Journal  [Manila],  Nos.  1-2,  1988,  169-87. 

Suryadinsta,  Leo.  "National  Integration  and  the  Chinese  in 
Southeast  Asia,"  Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  123,  July-September 
1989,  121-25. 

Tabak  Research  and  Publication  Desks.  "Promoting  the  Rights 


331 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


of  Tribal  Filipinos,"  Solidarity  [Manila],  No.  122,  April-June 

1989,  4-39. 

Tadem,  Eduardo  C.  "Land  Reform  after  Marcos,"  Solidarity 

[Manila],  No.  106-7,  1986,  71-74. 
Tan,  J.G.  "Public  Health  and  Population,"  Solidarity  [Manila], 

No.  118,  May-June  1988,  33. 
Tan-Gatue,  Belen.  "The  Social  Background  of  Thirty  Chinese- 
Filipino  Marriages,"  Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  3, 

No.  3,  July  1955,  3-13. 
Tapales,  Proserpina  D.  "Gender  and  Perceptions  of  Influence  in 

Policy  Making:  Findings  from  the  Philippine  Bureaucracy," 

Philippine  Journal  of  Public  Administration  [Diliman,  Philippines], 

29,  No.  1,  January  1985,  42-50. 
Tiglao,  Rigoberto.  "Gung-ho  in  Manila,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 

Review  [Hong  Kong],  147,  No.  7,  February  15,  1990,  68-70. 
 .  "The  Philippine  Paradox,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  149,  No.  28,  July  12,  1990,  31,  33-34. 
 .  "Tycoon  at  Bay,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  149,  No.  38,  September  20,  1990,  84-85. 
Tiglao,  Rigoberto,  and  John  McBeth.  "Echo  of  Gunshots,"  Far 

Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  149,  No.  33,  August  16, 

1990,  13. 

 "Provincial  Power,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  146,  No.  49,  December  7,  1989,  64-65. 
Toledo,  Velte  C.  "The  Relationship  Between  Mass  Media  Ex- 
posure and  Attitudes  Towards  Selected  Sexual  Activities  and  In- 
tention to  Engage  in  These  Activities."  (M.A.  thesis.)  Iloilo  City: 
Sociology  Department,  Central  Philippine  University,  1989. 

Trager,  Lillian.  The  City  Connection:  Migration  and  Family  Interdepen- 
dence in  the  Philippines.  (4th  ed.)  Ann  Arbor:  University  of  Michi- 
gan Press,  1988. 

Valencia,  L.B.  "Social  Dimensions  of  Leprosy  in  Relation  to  Con- 
trol," Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila],  33,  Nos.  3-4,  July- 
December  1985,  73-77. 

Van  der  Kroef,  Justus  M.  "The  Philippine  Vigilantes:  Devotion 
and  Despair,"  Contemporary  Southeast  Asia  [Singapore],  10,  No. 

2,  September  1988,  162-80. 

Varias,  R.R.  "Psychiatry  and  the  Filipino  Personality,"  Philippine 
Sociological  Review  [Manila],  9,  Nos.  3-4,  July-October  1963,  179-84. 

Vergote,  Antonio.  "Folk  Catholicism,"  Philippine  Studies  [Quezon 
City,  Philippines],  No.  30,  First  Quarter  1982,  20-33. 

Weightman,  George  H.  "Changing  Patterns  of  Internal  and  Ex- 
ternal Migration  among  Philippine  Chinese,"  Crossroads,  2,  No. 

3,  1986,  83-114. 


332 


Bibliography 


Wernstedt,  Frederick  L.,  andJ.E.  Spences.  The  Philippine  Island 
World:  A  Physical,  Cultural,  and  Regional  Geography.  Berkeley: 
University  of  California  Press,  1967. 

Wolters,  William  G.  Politics,  Patronage,  and  Class  Conflict  in  Central 
Luzon.  Quezon  City,  Philippines:  New  Day,  1984. 

 "Rise  and  Fall  of  Provincial  Elites  in  the  Philippines:  Nue- 

va  Ecija  From  1880s  to  the  Present  Day,"  Sojourn  [Singapore], 
4,  No.  1,  February  1989,  54-74. 

Yap,  Paul,  Stephen  Lim,  and  Gloria  Chiu.  "American  Jew  and 
Filipino  Chinese:  Philippine  Metrical  Romances,"  Kinaadman 
[Cagayan  de  Oro,  Philippines],  11,  1989,  11-23. 

Yengoyan,  Aram  A.,  and  Perla  Q.  Makil  (eds.).  Philippine  Society 
and  the  Individual:  Selected  Essays  of  Frank  Lynch,  1949-1976.  Ann 
Arbor:  University  of  Michigan  Press,  1984. 

Youngblood,  Robert.  "Aquino  and  the  Churches:  A  Construc- 
tive Critical  Solidarity?"  Pilipinas,  No.  13,  Fall  1989,  57-72. 

 Marcos  Against  the  Church:  Economic  Development  and  Political 

Repression  in  the  Philippines.  Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press, 
1990. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Philippine  Quarterly  of  Culture  and  Society 
[Cebu  City,  Philippines];  Philippine  Sociological  Review  [Manila]; 
Philippine  Studies  [Quezon  City,  Philippines];  Philipinas;  and  Solidar- 
ity [Manila].) 

Chapter  3 

Agricultural  Strategy  Team.  Agenda  for  Action  for  the  Philippine  Rural 
Sector.  Los  Banos,  Philippines:  University  of  the  Philippines  at 
Los  Banos  Agricultural  Policy  Research  Program  and  Philip- 
pine Institute  for  Developmental  Studies,  1989. 

Alburo,  Florian.  Philippine  Trade  in  Manufactures:  Structural  Change 
and  Adjustment.  (Discussion  Paper  No.  8509.)  Metro  Manila: 
School  of  Economics,  University  of  the  Philippines,  1985. 

 "TNCs  and  Structural  Change  in  the  Philippines."  (Dis- 
cussion Paper  No.  8811.)  Metro  Manila:  School  of  Economics, 
University  of  the  Philippines,  1988. 

Alburo,  Florian,  and  Geoffrey  Shepherd.  "Trade  Liberalization 
Experience  in  the  Philippines,  1960-84."  (Working  Paper  No. 
86-01.)  Manila:  Philippine  Institute  for  Development  Studies, 
1985. 

"Aquino  Is  Wooing  Private  Investors  During  U.S.  Visit."  Wall 
Street  Journal,  September  18,  1986,  37. 


333 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Aquino,  Belinda.  The  Politics  of  Plunder:  The  Philippines  under  Mar- 
cos. Quezon  City,  Philippines:  Great  Books  Trading,  1987. 

Aquino,  Corazon  Cojuangco.  "Broken  Promises:  In  the  Land  of 
Promise."  Speech  delivered  at  the  Ateneo  de  Davao  Universi- 
ty, Davao  City,  Philippines,  January  16,  1986. 

 "Building  from  Ruins."  Speech  delivered  before  the 

Management  Association  of  the  Philippines,  the  Makati  Busi- 
ness Club,  and  the  Bishops-Businessmen's  Conference  on  Hu- 
man Development,  January  6,  1986. 

 "A  Coalition  for  Transparency."  Pages  34-35,  252  in  Bet- 
ty Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Fookien  Times  Philippines  Yearbook,  1989. 
Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1989. 

Asia  Yearbook.  (Annuals  1984  through  1990.)  Hong  Kong:  Far 
Eastern  Economic  Review,  1984-90. 

Awanohara,  Susumu.  "High  Growth,  Low  Profile,"  Far  Eastern 
Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  151,  No.  6,  February  7,  1991, 
39-40. 

Azarcon,  Pennie.  "RP's  Organized  Labor,"  Bulletin  Today  [Ma- 
nila], May  1,  1982,  7. 

Bacani,  Teodoro  C.  "Bishop  Explains  Stand  on  Birth  Control," 
Manila  Chronicle,  July  15,  1990,  5. 

Balcena,  Pamela  A.,  Miguel  C.  Genovea,  and  David  Jude  Sta. 
Ana.  "But  Filing  Court  Suits  Is  Not  That  Simple,"  Daily  Globe 
[Manila],  November  21,  1990,  1. 

Baldwin,  Robert  E.  Foreign  Trade  Regimes  and  Economic  Development: 
The  Philippines.  New  York:  National  Bureau  of  Economic 
Research,  1975. 

Balisacan,  Arsenio  M.  "An  Analysis  of  the  Philippine  Inter-Island 
Shipping  Industry."  (Discussion  Paper  No.  8909.)  Metro  Ma- 
nila: School  of  Economics,  University  of  the  Philippines,  1989. 

Barcelon,  Jose  B.  "Minerals  and  Mining  Industry."  Pages  97-1 19 
in  Robert  E.  Huke  (ed.),  Shadows  on  the  Land:  An  Economic  Geog- 
raphy of  the  Philippines.  Manila:  Bookmark,  1963. 

Bautista,  Germelino  M.  "The  Forestry  Crisis  in  the  Philippines: 
Nature,  Causes,  and  Issues,"  The  Developing  Economies  [Kyoto, 
Japan],  28,  No.  1,  March  1990,  67-94. 

Bautista,  Romeo  M.,  John  H.  Power,  and  Associates.  Industrial 
Promotion  Policies  in  the  Philippines.  Manila:  Philippine  Institute 
for  Development  Studies,  1979. 

Bello,  Walden.  "Marcos  and  the  World  Bank,"  Pacific  Research  and 
World  Empire  Telegram,  7,  No.  6,  September-October  1976,  1-16. 

Bello,  Walden,  David  Kinley,  and  Elaine  Elinson.  Development  De- 
bacle: The  World  Bank  in  the  Philippines.  San  Francisco:  Institute 
for  Food  and  Development  Policy,  1982. 


334 


Bibliography 


Bonner,  Raymond.  Waltzing  with  a  Dictator:  The  Marcoses  and  the 
Making  of  American  Policy.  New  York:  Times  Books,  1987. 

Bowe,  Michael,  and  James  W.  Dean.  "Voluntary  Debt  Relief  and 
the  Philippines,"  ASEAN  Economic  Bulletin  [Singapore],  7,  No. 
1,  July  1990,  11-38. 

Boyce,  James  K.  The  Political  Economy  of  External  Indebtedness:  A  Case 
Study  of  the  Philippines.  (Monograph  Series,  No.  12.)  Manila: 
Philippine  Institute  for  Development  Studies,  n.d. 

Branigin,  William.  "Philippines  Eases  Demands  on  Bases,  But 
Tough  Talks  Ahead,"  Washington  Post,  February  9,  1991,  A12. 

Briones,  Leonor  M.  "The  Role  of  Government  Owned  or  Con- 
trolled Corporations  in  Development,"  Philippine  Economic  Journal 
[Manila],  25,  Nos.  1-2,  1986,  51-89. 

Broad,  Robin.  Unequal  Alliance:  The  World  Bank,  the  International 
Monetary  Fund,  and  the  Philippines.  Berkeley;  University  of  Califor- 
nia Press,  1988. 

Bulan,  Mila.  "A  Study  of  Official  Development  Assistance  to  the 
Philippines  FY1 952-72,"  Philippine  Economic  Journal  [Manila], 
8,  No.  3,  1974,  260-68. 

"Business  Shoots  Down  Planned  Tariff  Reforms, ' '  Philippine  Daily 
Inquirer  [Manila],  September  1,  1990,  6. 

Callanta,  Ruth  S.  Poverty:  The  Philippine  Scenario.  Manila:  Book- 
mark, 1988. 

Carlotta,  Lupo  T.  "Coconut  Industry  under  Siege;  Aquino  Calls 
for  Urgent  Support,"  Philippine  News,  April  27,  1988,  1. 

Carroll,  John  J.,  S.J.  "The  Church,  the  State,  and  the  Popula- 
tion Issue,"  Manila  Chronicle,  July  15,  1990,  16. 

"CB  Tightens  Noose  on  Money  Supply,"  Manila  Times,  Decem- 
ber 22,  1990,  9. 

"Cement  Firms  Have  an  Oligopoly,  Senate  Probers  Find,"  Daily 
Globe  [Manila],  July  29,  1990,  1. 

Central  Bank  of  the  Philippines.  1989  Annual  Report.  Manila:  1990. 

Chipongian,  Arleen  C.  "Debt  Service  Still  Heavy,"  Manila  Chroni- 
cle, September  7,  1990,  15. 

 .  "RP  Economy  Given  Favorable  Rating  by  IMF,"  Ma- 
nila Chronicle,  July  2,  1990,  15. 

Clad,  James.  "Genesis  of  Despair,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 
[Hong  Kong],  142,  No.  42,  October  20,  1988,  24-25. 

 "That  Was  the  Week  .  .  .,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review, 

[Hong  Kong],  137,  No.  37,  September  10,  1987,  20. 

Clad,  James,  and  Marites  D.  Vitug.  "The  Politics  of  Plunder," 
Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  142,  No.  47,  Novem- 
ber 24,  1988,  48-50. 

 "Words,  Words  Everywhere,  and  Not  a  Thing  Is  Done," 


335 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  142,  No.  47,  Novem- 
ber 24,  1988,  50. 
"Coconuts,  Sugar — and  Spice,"  Asiaweek  [Hong  Kong],  11,  No. 

9,  March  1,  1985,  39-40. 
Cohen,  Margot.  "A  Menu  for  Malnutrition,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 

Review  [Hong  Kong],  149,  No.  28,  July  12,  1990,  38-39. 
Constantino,  Renato,  and  Letizia  R.  Constantino.  The  Philippines : 

The  Continuing  Past.  Quezon  City,  Philippines:  The  Foundation 

for  Nationalist  Studies,  1978. 
"Country  Misses  IMF  Target,"  Manila  Times,  November  1,  1990,  1. 
"Country's  Fishery  Resources  Declining,"  Manila  Chronicle,  May 

29,  1990. 

"Creditors  to  Reschedule  $870  Million  Manila  Debt,"  New  York 
Times,  January  24,  1987,  39. 

David,  Christina.  "Credit  and  Price  Policies  in  Philippine  Agricul- 
ture." (Staff  Paper  Series,  No.  82-2.)  Manila:  Philippine  Insti- 
tute for  Development  Studies,  1982. 

 .  "Philippines:  Price  Policy  in  Transition."  Pages  154-82 

in  Terry  Sinclair  (ed.),  Food  Price  Policy  in  Asia:  A  Comparative 
Study.  Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press,  1989. 

De  Dios,  Emmanuel  S.  "A  Political  Economy  of  Philippine  Policy- 
Making."  Pages  109-47  in  John  W.  Langford  and  K.  Lome 
Brownsey  (eds.),  Economic  Policy-Making  in  the  Asia- Pacific  Region. 
Halifax:  The  Institute  for  Research  on  Public  Policy,  1990. 

De  Dios,  Emmanuel  S.  (ed.).  An  Analysis  of  the  Philippine  Economic 
Crisis.  Metro  Manila:  University  of  the  Philippines  Press,  1984. 

Diaz,  Fermin  M.  "The  Worst  of  Times  for  Mining  Industry," 
Manila  Chronicle,  January  7,  1991,  10. 

Doherty,  John  F.,  S.J.  "Who  Controls  the  Philippine  Economy: 
Some  Need  Not  Try  As  Hard  As  Others."  Pages  7-35  in  Be- 
linda A.  Aquino  (ed.),  Cronies  and  Enemies:  The  Current  Philippine 
Scene  (Philippine  Studies  Occasional  Paper  No.  5.)  Honolulu: 
Philippine  Studies  Program,  Center  for  Asian  and  Pacific  Studies, 
University  of  Hawaii,  August  1982. 

Dohner,  Robert  S.  "Aquino  and  the  Economy:  An  Assessment 
of  the  First  Three  Years."  Pilipinas,  No.  11,  Fall  1988,  1-32. 

 .  Philippine  External  Debt:  Burdens,  Possibilities,  and  Prospects. 

(Asian  Update  Series.)  New  York:  The  Asia  Society,  1989. 

Enano,  Ray  S.  "New  Tax  Reform  Package  Okayed  by  the  Cabi- 
net," Daily  Globe  [Manila],  June  7.  1990,  6. 

 "RP  Retires  $1.34B  of  Int'l  Debts,"  Daily  Globe  [Ma- 
nila], January  4,  1990,  1. 

"EO  413:  Will  It  Bring  Progress  or  Stagnation,"  Daily  Globe  [Ma- 
nila], September  3,  1990,  7. 


336 


Bibliography 


Estuar,  Fiorello  R.  "The  Infrastructure  Program."  Pages  184, 
348-51  in  Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Fookien  Times  Philippines  Year- 
book, 1989.  Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1989. 

Factoran,  Fulgencio  S.,  Jr.  "Towards  Sustainable  Development." 
Pages  156,  327-33  in  Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Fookien  Times 
Philippines  Yearbook,  1989.  Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1989. 

"Failure  to  Catch  Up,"  Ibon  [Manila],  12,  No.  14,  August  31, 
1989,  pp.  5-6. 

FAO  Production  Yearbook,  43.  Rome:  Food  and  Agricultural  Organi- 
zation of  the  United  Nations,  1990. 

Fernandez,  Butch,  and  Pamela  A.  Balcena.  "FDC  Identifies  $6B 
Fraudulent  Loans,"  Daily  Globe  [Manila],  November  22,  1990,  1. 

Fernandez,  Claro.  "Integrate  Privatization  into  Debt  Swap  Plan — 
WB,"  Manila  Chronicle,  May  23,  1990,  11. 

Fookien  Times  Philippines  Yearbook,  1987-88.  (Ed.,  Betty  Go  Bel- 
monte.) Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1989. 

Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service — FBIS  (Washington).  The 
following  items  are  from  the  FBIS  series: 
Daily  Report:  East  Asia. 

"Agricultural  Sector  Reports  Earnings  Growth,"  Philippine  News- 
day  [Manila],  February  7,  1991.  (FBIS-EAS-91-027.)  Febru- 
ary 8,  1991,  57. 

"Central  Bank  Chief  Outlines  Goals  for  1991,"  Business  World 
[Manila],  February  1,  1991.  (FBIS-EAS-91-027.)  February 
8,  1991,  54-55. 

"Debt  Negotiators  Fail  to  Get  $115  Million  Loan,"  Philippine 
Daily  Inquirer  [Manila],  February  12,  1991.  (FBIS- 
EAS-9 1-029.)  February  12,  1991,  44-45. 

"Debt  Officials  Reject  IMF  Letter  Disclosure,"  Philippines  News- 
day  [Manila],  February  21,  1991.  (FBIS-EAS-91-035.)  Feb- 
ruary 21,  1991,  31. 

"500  Workers  Said  Arrested,"  Manila  Broadcasting  Company  [Ma- 
nila], November  16,  1990.  (FBIS-EAS-90-223.)  November 
16,  1990,  50. 

"Huge  Rice  Shortage  Seen;  Importation  Urged,"  Manila  Chroni- 
cle [Manila],  January  26,  1990.  (FBIS-EAS-90-022.)  Feb- 
ruary 1,  1990,  58. 

"Labor  Takes  Noncash  Benefits,"  Manila  Chronicle  [Manila], 
November  23,  1990.  (FBIS-EAS-90-226.)  November  23, 
1990,  38-9. 

"Malacanang,  Congress  Agree  on  Budget  Measures,"  Business 
World  [Manila],  October  25,  1990.  (FBIS-EAS-90-208.)  Oc- 
tober 26,  1990,  49. 

"Manila  Seeks  Debt  Rescheduling  with  Paris  Club,"  Philippines 


337 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Newsday  [Manila],  February  4,  1991.  (FBIS-EAS-91-027.) 
February  8,  1991,  54. 

"Military,  Labor  View  'True  Status'  of  KMU,"  Manila  Broad- 
casting Company  [Manila],  October  26,  1990.  (FBIS- 
EAS-90-208.)  October  26,  1990,  47. 

"More  on  Finance  Secretary's  Remarks,"  Philippine  Daily  Inquirer 
[Manila],  February  13,  1991.  (FBIS-EAS-9 1-030.)  Feb- 
ruary 13,  1991,  46-47. 

"Negotiators  Seek  Cofinancing  Scheme  with  Japan,"  Philippines 
Newsday  [Manila],  March  20,  1991.  (FBIS-EAS-91-054.) 
March  20,  1991,  51. 

"President  Aquino  Opposes  Debt  Cap  Provision,"  Manila 
Chronicle  [Manila],  February  12,  1991.  (FBIS-EAS-91-029.) 
February  12,  1991,  45. 

"Report  Breaks  Down  Foreign  Equity  Investments,"  Business 
World  [Manila],  February  2,  1990.  (FBIS-EAS-90-026.)  Feb- 
ruary 7,  1990,  63-64. 

"16  Arrested  in  Palawan,"  Manila  Bulletin  [Manila],  March  11, 
1991.  (FBIS-EAS-91-048.)  March  12,  1991,  55-56. 

"Study  Shows  'Vast  Potential'  for  Oil  Found,"  Business  World 
[Manila],  March  1,  1991.  (FBIS-EAS-9 1 -041 .)  March  1, 
1991,  44-45. 

"Team  to  Discuss  Debt  Condonation  with  U.S.,"  Business  World 
[Manila]  March  19,  1991.  (FBIS-EAS-91-054.)  March  20, 
1991,  50-51. 

"$3.3  Billion  in  Grants,  Loans  Pledged  for  1991,"  Manila  Bulletin 
[Manila],  February  27,  1991.  (FBIS-EAS-91-039.)  Febru- 
ary 27,  1991,  42-43. 
"Trade  Deficit  Surpasses  $4  Billion  Mark  in  1990,"  Philippines 
Newsday  [Manila],  February  14,  1991.  (FBIS-EAS-91-031.) 
February  14,  1991,  42-43. 
"Why  Debt  Forgiveness  for  Poland  and  not  RP,"  Philippine 
Daily  Inquirer  [Manila],  March  19,  1991.  (FBIS-EAS-91-054.) 
March  20,  1991,  51. 
"For  Middle-Class  Filipino  Family,  Life  after  Marcos  No  Improve- 
ment," New  York  Times,  December  29,  1986,  19. 
"Foreigners  Can't  Hold  Management  Positions,"  Philippine  Daily 

Inquirer  [Manila],  September  17,  1990,  18. 
Galang,  Jose.  "Bumping  Up  Against  a  Ceiling,"  Far  Eastern  Eco- 
nomic Review  [Hong  Kong],  140,  No.  21,  May  26,  1988,  74-75. 

 .  "The  Generation  Gap,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  142,  No.  44,  November  3,  1988,  106. 

 "In  Debt  to  the  Past, ' '  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  137,  No.  33,  August  13,  1987,  104-5. 


338 


Bibliography 

 .  "The  Monopoly  Game,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  123,  No.  9,  March  1,  1984,  42-43. 

 .  "Troubled  Relations, ' '  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  133,  No.  32,  August  7,  1986,  54-55. 

Godinez,  Zinnia  R.  "Privatization  and  Deregulation  in  the  Philip- 
pines," ASEAN  Economic  Bulletin  [Singapore],  5,  No.  3,  March 
1989,  259-89. 

Golay,  Frank  H.  The  Philippines :  Public  Policy  and  National  Economic 
Development.  Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press,  1961. 

Goodno,  James  B.  "The  Philippines,"  In  These  Times,  November 
26,  1986,  9. 

Gupta,  M.L.  Outflow  of  Human  Capital:  High  Level  Manpower  from 
the  Philippines,  with  Special  Reference  to  the  Period,  1965-71.  Ma- 
nila: National  Economic  Council,  July  1972. 

Halloran,  Richard.  "Aquino  Seeks  Aid  From  U.S.  Business,"  New 
York  Times,  November  10,  1989,  A3. 

Hawes,  Gary.  The  Philippine  State  and  the  Marcos  Regime:  The  Politics 
of  Export.  Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press,  1987. 

Hayami,  Yujiro,  Ma.  Agnes  R.  Quisumbing,  and  Lourdes  S.  Adri- 
ano.  Toward  an  Alternate  Land  Reform  Paradigm:  A  Philippine  Per- 
spective. Quezon  City,  Philippines:  Ateneo  de  Manila  University 
Press,  1990. 

Henson,  Antonio  A.  "NDC— Engine  of  Growth."  Pages  110-11 
in  Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  The  Fookien  Times  Philippines  Year- 
book, 1987-88.  Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1989. 

Hill,  Hal,  and  Sisira  Jayasuriya.  "The  Philippines:  Growth,  Debt, 
and  Crisis."  (Working  Paper  No.  85-3.)  Canberra:  Develop- 
ment Studies  Center,  The  Australian  National  University,  1985. 

Hodgkinson,  Edith.  "The  Philippines:  The  Economy."  Pages 
931-41  in  The  Far  East  and  Australia,  1991.  (22d  ed.)  London: 
Europa,  1990. 

 .  The  Philippines  to  1993:  Making  Up  Lost  Ground.  (Special 

Report  No.  1 145.)  London:  Economist  Intelligenct  Unit,  1988. 

Huke,  Robert  E.  (ed.).  Shadows  on  the  Land:  An  Economic  Geography 
of  the  Philippines.  Manila:  Bookmark,  1963. 

Intal,  Ponciano  S.,  Jr.,  and  John  H.  Power.  Trade,  Exchange  Rate, 
and  Agricultural  Pricing  Policies  in  the  Philippines.  (World  Bank  Com- 
parative Studies:  The  Political  Economy  of  Agricultural  Pric- 
ing Policy.)  Washington:  World  Bank,  1990. 

International  Monetary  Fund.  Balance  of  Payments  Statistics  41,  Pt. 
1.  Washington,  1990. 

Ishii,  Alichir,  et  al.  National  Development  Policies  and  the  Business  Sec- 
tor in  the  Philippines.  Tokyo:  Institute  of  Developing  Economies, 
1988. 


339 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Jiang,  Frank.  "Pasturing  a  Fecund  Flock,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 
Review  [Hong  Kong],  150,  No.  41,  October  11,  1990,  62-63. 

Jurado,  Gonzalo  M.  "Foreign  Trade  and  External  Debt."  Pages 
262-99  in  Jose  Encarnacion,  Jr.,  et  al.  (eds.),  Philippine  Economic 
Problems  in  Perspective.  Metro  Manila:  Institute  of  Economic  De- 
velopment and  Research,  School  of  Economics,  University  of 
the  Philippines,  1976. 

Kerkvliet,  Benedict  J.  "Peasants  and  Agricultural  Workers:  Im- 
plications for  United  States  Policy."  Pages  205-18  in  Carl  H. 
Lande  (ed.),  Rebuilding  a  Nation:  Philippine  Challenges  and  Ameri- 
can Policy.  Washington:  Washington  Institute  Press,  1987. 

"KMP  Leader  Jaime  Tadeo,  Peasants'  Champion,  Arrested," 
Philippine  Labor  Alert  [Manila],  March-July  1990,  7. 

"KMU  Leader  Arrested."  Philippine  Labor  Alert,  August-December 
1990,  1. 

Koppel,  Bruce  M.  "Agrarian  Problems  and  Agrarian  Reform:  Op- 
portunity or  Irony?"  Pages  157-88  in  Carl  H.  Lande  (ed.), 
Rebuilding  a  Nation:  Philippine  Challenges  and  American  Policy. 
Washington:  Washington  Institute  Press,  1987. 

Lachica,  Eduardo.  "IMF  Approves  Credit  Package  of  $1.17  Bil- 
lion for  the  Philippines,"  Asian  Wall  Street  Journal  Weekly  [Hong 
Kong],  May  29,  1989,  21. 

Lacson,  Margaret.  "Going  Gets  Rough  for  Manglapus,"  Daily 
Inquirer  [Manila],  March  3,  1991,  1. 

Lande,  Carl  H.  "Introduction."  Pages  7-44  in  Carl  H.  Lande 
(ed.),  Rebuilding  a  Nation:  Philippine  Challenges  and  American  Poli- 
cy. Washington:  Washington  Institute  Press,  1987. 

Lande,  Carl  H.,  and  Richard  Hooley.  "Aquino  Takes  Charge," 
Foreign  Affairs,  64,  Summer  1986,  1087-1107. 

"Lawmakers'  Letter  to  President  Reagan,"  Philippine  News,  De- 
cember 2,  1987,  5. 

Lichauco,  Alejandro.  Nationalist  Economics:  History,  Theory,  and  Prac- 
tice. Quezon  City,  Philippines:  Institute  for  Rural  Industriali- 
zation, 1988. 

Lindsey,  Charles  W.  "Economic  Crisis  in  the  Philippines,"  Asian 

Survey,  24,  No.  12,  December  1984,  1185-1207. 
 "The  Economics  of  the  US  Military  Bases,"  Kasarinlan 

[Quezon  City,  Philippines],  5,  Nos.  1-2,  1989,  45-58. 
 "In  Search  of  Dynamism:  Foreign  Investment  in  the 

Philippines  under  Martial  Law,"  Pacific  Affairs ,  56,  No.  3,  Fall 

1983,  477-94. 

 "Market  Concentration  in  Philippine  Manufacturing, 

1970,"  Philippine  Economic  Journal  [Manila],  16,  No.  3,  1977, 
289-312. 


340 


Bibliography 


 "The  Nationalist  View  of  the  Philippine  Economy:  Criti- 
cisms and  Proposals."  Pages  123-40  in  Carl  H.  Lande  (ed.), 
Rebuilding  a  Nation:  Philippine  Challenges  and  American  Policy. 
Washington:  Washington  Institute  Press,  1987. 

 "The  Philippine  State  and  Transnational  Investment," 

Bulletin  of  Concerned  Asian  Scholars,  19,  No.  2,  April/June  1987, 
24-41. 

 .  "Size,  Structure,  Turnover,  and  Mobility  of  the  Largest 

Manufacturing  Firms  in  a  Developing  Country:  The  Case  of 
the  Philippines,"  Journal  of  Industrial  Economics  [Oxford],  28,  No. 
2,  December  1979,  189-200. 

Lohr,  Stevey.  "Rebels  and  Hunger  Stalk  Province  in  the  Philip- 
pines," New  York  Times,  May  6,  1985,  A5. 

"Luisita  Stock  Option  Plan  Called  'Unconstitutional,'  "  Manila 
Chronicle,  June  16,  1990,  6. 

McBeth,  John.  "Back  On  Track,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 
[Hong  Kong],  151,  No.  14,  April  4,  1991,  50-1. 

 .  "The  Cane  Mutiny,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  147,  No.  4,  January  25,  1990,  26-8. 

 "A  Congress  of  Words,  Not  Acts,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 

Review  [Hong  Kong],  149,  No.  28,  July  12,  1990,  35-7. 

 .  "The  Only  Option,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  146,  No.  40,  October  5,  1989,  36. 

 "Time  and  Money,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  151,  No.  9,  February  28,  1991,  18-19. 

McBeth  John,  and  Susumu  Awanohara.  "Gap  Bridged,"  Far 
Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  151,  No.  15,  April  11, 
1991,  52. 

McCoy,  Alfred  W.  "  Tn  Extreme  Unction':  The  Philippine  Su- 
gar Industry."  Pages  135-79  in  Randolf  S.  David  et  al.  (eds.), 
Political  Economy  of  Philippine  Commodities.  Metro  Manila:  Third 
World  Studies  Center,  University  of  the  Philippines,  1983. 

 "Rural  Philippines:  Technological  Change  in  the  Sugar 

Industry."  Pages  175-93  in  R.J.  May  and  Francisco  Nemenzo 
(eds.),  The  Philippines  after  Marcos.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press, 
1985. 

McCue,  Andy.  "Philippines  Sees  Lower  Cost,  More  Profit  in  11 
Projects,"  Asian  Wall  Street  Journal  [Hong  Kong],  March  16,  1982, 
3. 

MacDonald,  Lawrence.  "Government's  Sale  of  Ailing  Philippine 
Airlines  May  Be  Imminent  after  Several  Years  of  Delay,"  Asian 
Wall  Street  Journal  Weekly  [Hong  Kong],  April  8,  1991,  10. 

 "Oil  and  Gas  Discoveries  Provide  Hope  for  Crisis-Ridden 


341 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Philippine  Economy,"  Asian  Wall  Street  Journal  Weekly  [Hong 
Kong],  December  24,  1990,  16. 

 .  "Philippines  to  Raise  Taxes,  Power  Costs  in  Bid  for 

Loans,"  Asian  Wall  Street  Journal  Weekly  [Hong  Kong],  Decem- 
ber 3,  1990,  1. 

 .  "U.S.,  Philippines  Seem  Optimistic  Accord  on  Bases  Can 

Be  Reached,"  Asian  Wall  Street  Journal  Weekly  [Hong  Kong],  Janu- 
ary 21,  1991,  14. 

Mangahas,  Mahar,  and  Bruno  Barros.  "The  Distribution  of  In- 
come and  Wealth:  A  Survey  of  Philippine  Research."  Pages 
51-132  in  Bruno  Barros  (ed.),  Survey  of  Philippine  Development 
Research,  1.  Manila:  Philippine  Institute  for  Development  Studies, 
1980. 

"Memorandum  on  Philippine  Economic  Stabilization  Plan, 

1991-92,"  Daily  Globe  [Manila],  February  4,  1991,  10. 
Miller,  Matt.  "Aquino  Assessment  Touts  Growth  but  Concedes 

Poor  Are  Left  Out,"  Asian  Wall  Street  Journal  Weekly  [Hong  Kong], 

July  31,  1989,  18. 
"Monsod  Calls  PAP  a  'Gigantic  Hoax,'  "  Manila  Bulletin,  August 

2,  1989. 

Montes,  Manuel  F.  "Macroeconomic  Adjustment  in  the  Philip- 
pines, 1983-85."  (Working  Paper  Series,  No.  8701.)  Manila: 
Philippine  Institute  for  Development  Studies,  1987. 

Mydans,  Seth.  "Aquino  Decrees  a  Compromise  on  Land  Issues," 
New  York  Times,  July  23,  1987,  1. 

 .  "Land  Plan  Paralyzes  Philippine  Isle,"  New  York  Times, 

August  2,  1987,  3. 

 .  "Major  Leftist  Leader  Is  Found  Slain  in  Philippines," 

New  York  Times,  November  14,  1986,  1. 

 .  "More  Resignations  in  Manila  Cabinet,"  New  York  Times, 

December  3,  1986,  A7. 

 .  "Troops  in  Manila  Kill  12  in  Crowd  at  Leftist  Rally," 

New  York  Times,  January  23,  1987,  1. 

"Not  in  the  Bank,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  143, 
No.  12,  March  23,  1989,  75. 

Oberdorfer,  Don.  "U.S.  Plans  Philippine  Aid  Program,"  Hart- 
ford Courant,  May  8,  1988,  1. 

Ocampo,  Shellah.  "The  Levy:  An  Issue  That  Divides  a  Nation," 
Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  115,  No.  2,  January 
8,  1982,  46-47. 

Ofreneo,  Rene  E.  Deregulation  and  the  Agrarian  Crisis.  Metro  Ma- 
nila: Institute  of  Industrial  Relations,  University  of  the  Philip- 
pines, 1987. 

Ongpin,  Jamie  V.  "The  Finance  Report."  Pages  68,  254-5  in  Betty 


342 


Bibliography 


Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  The  Fookien  Times  Philippines  Yearbook, 
1986-87.  Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1987. 

Oshima,  Harry  T.,  Elizabeth  de  Borja,  and  Wilhelmina  Paz.  "Ris- 
ing National  Income  Per  Worker  and  Falling  Real  Wages  in  the 
Philippines  in  the  1970s,"  Philippine  Review  of  Economics  and  Busi- 
ness [Quezon  City,  Philippines],  23,  Nos.  3-4,  September- 
December  1986,  151-90. 

Paderanga,  Antonio  R.W.,  and  Cayetano  W.  Paderanga,  Jr.  "The 
Oil  Industry  in  the  Philippines,"  Philippine  Economic  Journal 
[Manila],  27,  Nos.  1-2,  1988,  89-107. 

Paderanga,  Cayetano  W. ,  Jr.  Employment  in  Philippine  Development, 
(Discussion  Paper  No.  8905.)  Metro  Manila:  School  of  Econom- 
ics, University  of  the  Philipppines,  1989. 

Patrick,  Hugh,  and  Honorata  A.  Moreno.  "Philippine  Private 
Domestic  Commercial  Banking,  1946-80,  in  Light  of  Japanese 
Historical  Experience,"  Philippine  Economic  Journal  [Manila],  27, 
Nos.  2-3,  1984,  87-104. 

Perez,  Elizabeth.  "Land  Reform  Targets  Are  Cut  by  Half,"  Manila 
Chronicle,  October  23,  1990,  3. 

"Peso  Drops  by  8  Percent:  It's  Now  P28  to  $1,"  Manila  Times, 
November  1,  1990,  1. 

Philippine  Agribusiness  Factbook  and  Directory,  1989-90.  Manila:  Center 
for  Research  and  Communication,  1989. 

"Philippine  Debt-Conversion  Plan  Whets  Foreign  Bankers'  In- 
terest," Asian  Wall  Street  Journal  Weekly  [Hong  Kong],  Septem- 
ber 22,  1986,  3. 

Philippines.  Constitution  Commission  of  1986.  The  Constitution  of 
the  Republic  of  the  Philippines .  Quezon  City,  Philippines:  October 
15,  1986. 

.  National  Economic  and  Development  Authority.  Four-Year 
Philippine  Development  Plan,  FY1974-77.  Metro  Manila:  1973. 

 National  Economic  and  Development  Authority.  Medium- 
Term  Philippine  Development  Plan,  1987-1992.  Metro  Manila:  1986. 

 National  Economic  and  Development  Authority.  Philip- 
pine Development  Report,  1988.  Metro  Manila:  1989. 

 National  Economic  and  Development  Authority.  Philip- 
pine Statistical  Yearbook.  (Annuals  1980  through  1990.)  Metro 
Manila:  (1985  through  1990). 

 National  Statistical  Coordination  Board.  The  National  Ac- 
counts of  the  Philippines  CY1988  to  CY1990.  (Estimates  as  of  De- 
cember 1990.)  Manila:  N.d. 

 Tariff  Commission.  Briefing  Folder.  Manila:  April  1988. 

"Philippines."  Pages  185-88  in  Amnesty  International  Report,  1991. 
New  York:  Amnesty  International,  1991. 


343 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Porter,  Gareth,  with  Delfin  J.  Ganapin,  Jr.  Resources,  Population, 
and  the  Philippines '  Future:  A  Case  Study.  (World  Resources  Insti- 
tute Paper  No.  4.)  Washington:  World  Resources  Institute,  1988. 

Power,  John  H.,  and  Gerardo  P.  Sicat.  The  Philippines:  Industriali- 
zation and  Trade  Policies.  London:  Oxford  University  Press  for 
the  Organization  for  Economic  Co-Operation  and  Development, 
1971.  " 

"Public  Transportation:  Heading  for  Crisis,"  Ibon  [Manila] ,  July 
31,  1989,  2. 

Putzel,  James.  "The  Problems  in  Making  Agrarian  Reform  De- 
pendent on  ODA,"  Issues  &  Letters  [Quezon  City,  Philippines], 
1,  No.  9,  1990. 

"Quarter  of  RP's  National  Budget  Is  Lost  to  Graft,"  Philippine 
News,  September  16-22,  1987,  6. 

Quiambao,  Oscar.  "Lending  Rates  Seen  to  Peak  at  40  Percent," 
Philippine  Daily  Inquirer  [Manila],  December  31,  1990,  13. 

Ramos,  EliasT.  Dualistic  Unionism  and  Industrial  Relations .  Quezon 
City,  Philippines:  New  Day,  1990. 

Ramos,  Victor  O.  "Developing  the  Forests."  Pages  158,  332-34 
in  Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Fookien  Times  Philippines  Yearbook, 
1987-88.  Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1989. 

Ranis,  Gustav.  "Marcos's  Economic  Legacy:  Problems,  Policies, 
and  Prospects  for  President  Aquino  and  How  the  United  States 
Can  Help."  Pages  111-22  in  Carl  H.  Lande  (ed.),  Rebuilding 
a  Nation:  Philippine  Challenges  and  American  Policy.  Washington: 
Washington  Institute  Press,  1987. 

Reinah,  David.  "Philippine  Sugar  Industry  Market  Considera- 
tions and  United  States  Policy."  Pages  141-56  in  Carl  H.  Lande 
(ed.),  Rebuilding  a  Nation:  Philippine  Challenges  and  American  Poli- 
cy. Washington:  Washington  Institute  Press,  1987. 

Reyes,  Gilda,  and  Cayetano  W.  Paderanga,  Jr.  "Government  Poli- 
cies and  Spatial  Development."  Pages  197-232  in  Ernesto  M. 
Pernia  et  al.  (ed.),  The  Spatial  and  Urban  Dimensions  of  Develop- 
ment in  the  Philippines.  Manila:  Philippine  Institute  for  Develop- 
ment Studies,  1983. 

Reyes,  Rene  Delos.  "Privatization  Tied  Down  by  Legal  Disputes," 
Manila  Chronicle,  June  6,  1990,  11. 

Rocamora,  Joel.  "Aquino  Proposes  Toothless  Land  Reform," 
Guardian  [London],  August  28,  1987,  21. 

Romero,  Linda  Blue.  '  'Aquino  Signs  Order  to  Cut  Import  Tariffs, ' ' 
Philippine  Daily  Inquirer  [Manila],  July  27,  1990,  17. 

Roxas,  Sixto  K.  "The  Petrochem  Issue  and  National  Interest," 
Manila  Chronicle,  June  13,  1990,  15. 


344 


Bibliography 


Sacerdoti,  Guy.  "Cracks  in  the  Coconut  Shell,"  Far  Eastern  Eco- 
nomic Review  [Hong  Kong],  115,  No.  2,  January  8,  1982,  42-45. 

 .  '  'Out  of  a  Cooking-Oil  Crisis, ' '  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  115,  No.  2,  January  8,  1982,  44-48. 

Scientists'  Action  Committee.  "Blackout!"  Midweek  [Manila],  Au- 
gust 8,  1990,  6-10. 

Severino,  Howie.  "Storm  Clouds  over  Population  Program,"  Focus: 
A  Chronicle  Magazine  [Manila],  July  1,  1990,  9. 

SGV  Group.  Doing  Business  in  the  Philippines.  Manila:  1986. 

Shalom,  Stephen  Rosskamm.  The  United  States  and  the  Philippines: 
A  Study  of  Neocolonialism.  Philadelphia:  Institute  for  the  Study  of 
Human  Issues,  1981. 

Sicat,  Gerardo  P.  Economics.  Manila:  National  Book  Store,  1983. 

 .  A  Historical  and  Current  Perspective  of  Philippine  Economic 

Problems.  (Monograph  Series,  No.  11.)  Manila:  Philippine  In- 
stitute for  Development  Studies,  1986. 

Solarz,  Stephen  J.  "One  Way  to  Shore  Up  Filipino  Democracy," 
New  York  Times,  February  22,  1988,  A19. 

Solon,  Orville.  "The  Urban  Poor:  Their  Case  from  Selected  Com- 
munities in  Metro  Manila,  Cebu,  and  Davao,"  Philippine  Eco- 
nomic Journal  [Manila],  28,  Nos.  1-2,  1988,  169-87. 

Tadem,  Eduardo  C.  Grains  and  Radicalism:  The  Political  Economy  of 
the  Rice  Industry  in  the  Philippines:  1965-1985.  (Commodity  Se- 
ries, No.  5.)  Metro  Manila:  Third  World  Studies  Center, 
University  of  the  Philippines,  1986. 

 "Philippine  Agrarian  Reform  Today:  Fallen  Hopes  and 

New  Possibilities,"  Kasarinlan  [Quezon  City,  Philippines],  6,  Nos. 
1-2,  1990,  59-72. 

Tan,  Edita  A.  Bank  Concentration  and  the  Structure  of  Interest.  (Discus- 
sion Paper  No.  8915.)  Metro  Manila:  School  of  Economics, 
University  of  the  Philippines,  1989. 

 .  Overseas  Employment  Policy  and  Remittances.  (Discussion  Paper 

No.  8402.)  Metro  Manila:  School  of  Economics,  University  of 
the  Philippines,  1984. 

"The  Sugar  Crisis,  "Asiaweek  [Hong  Kong],  11,  No.  22,  May  31, 
1985,  7-13. 

Tidalgo,  Rosa  Linda  P.,  and  Emmanuel  F.  Esguerra.  Philippine 
Employment  in  the  Seventies.  Manila:  Philippine  Institute  for  De- 
velopment Studies,  1984. 

Tiglao,  Rigoberto.  "All  That  Glisters  Is  Not  in  Manila,"  Far  Eastern 
Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  149,  No.  28,  July  12,  1990,  47-48. 

 "Caught  in  the  Act,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  145,  No.  28,  July  13,  1989,  15. 


345 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

 .  "Change  of  Attitude, ' '  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  151,  No.  7,  April  25,  1991,  58-59. 

 .  "Economy  on  the  Skids,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  150,  No.  51,  December  20,  1990,  8-9. 

 .  "Lords  of  Privilege,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  151,  No.  15,  April  11,  1991,  48-49. 

 .  "Manila  on  the  Brink,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  151,  No.  45,  November  8,  1990,  48-50. 

 "Manna  for  Manila,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  151,  No.  10,  March  7,  1991,  53. 

 .  "Money  in  High  Places,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  151,  No.  13,  March  28,  1991,  62-63. 

 "Muscle  Flexing,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  144,  No.  26,  June  29,  1989,  12-13. 

 "The  Political  Economy  of  the  Philippine  Coconut  In- 
dustry." Pages  181-274  in  Randolf  S.  David  et  al.  (eds.),  Polit- 
ical Economy  of  Philippine  Commodities.  Metro  Manila:  Third  World 
Studies  Center,  University  of  the  Philippines,  1983. 

 .  '  'A  Question  of  Duty, ' '  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  151,  No.  6,  February  7,  1991,  57-58. 

 "Silver  Lining,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong], 

151,  No.  4,  January  24,  1991,  48-49. 

 "Virtuous  Inertia,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  151,  No.  8,  February  21,  1991,  39. 

 "Worse  to  Come,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  151,  No.  1,  January  3,  1991,  47. 

Tigno,  Jorge  V.  "International  Migration  As  State  Policy:  The 
Philippine  Experience  As  Model  and  Myth,"  Kasarinlan  [Quezon 
City,  Philippines],  6,  Nos.  1-2,  1990,  73-78. 

Timberman,  David  G.  (ed.).  A  Guide  to  Philippine  Economic  and  Busi- 
ness Information  Sources.  Manila:  The  Makati  Business  Club  for 
the  Joint  Forum  for  Philippine  Progress,  1990. 

Todaro,  Michael  P.  Economic  Development  in  the  Third  World.  (4th 
ed.)  New  York:  Longman,  1989. 

United  States.  Department  of  Agriculture.  Agricultural  Stabiliza- 
tion and  Conservation  Service.  The  United  States  Sugar  Program. 
(ASCS  Background  Information,  BI  No.  14.)  Washington:  May 
1972. 

 Department  of  Agriculture.  Foreign  Agricultural  Service. 

Evolution  of  Sugar  Import  Policies  and  Programs.  (FAS  Staff  Report 
No.  8.)  Washington:  November  1988. 

 .  Department  of  the  Interior.  Bureau  of  Mines.  Mineral  In- 
dustries of  the  Far  East  and  South  Asia.  Washington:  GPO,  1988. 


346 


Bibliography 


 .  Department  of  the  Interior.  Bureau  of  Mines.  Mineral  Year- 
book. Washington:  GPO,  1990. 

Valdepenas,  Vicente  B.,  Jr.  "The  Updated  Philippine  Develop- 
ment Plan,  1984-1987,"  Philippine  Economic  Journal  [Manila],  24, 
No.  1,  1985,  1-7. 

Valdepenas,  Vicente  B.,  Jr.,  and  Gemelino  M.  Bautista.  The  Emer- 
gence of  the  Philippine  Economy.  Manila:  Papyrus  Press,  1977. 

"Value  of  Debt  Papers  Falls  Further  to  35  Percent,"  Daily  Globe 
[Manila],  October  11,  1990,  11. 

Villaneuva,  Roberto  T.  "Statement  Before  the  Senate  Ad  Hoc 
Committee,  August  3,  1989,"  Manila  Chronicle,  August  4,  5,  and 
7,  1989. 

Warr,  Peter  G.  Export  Promotion  Via  Industrial  Enclaves:  The  Philip- 
pines' Bataan  Export  Processing  Zone.  (Discussion  Paper  No.  8407.) 
Metro  Manila:  School  of  Economics,  University  of  the  Philip- 
pines, 1984. 

Wong,  Chin  Wah.  "Financial  System  Restructured"  Business  Day 

[Manila],  August  28,  1980,  17. 
World  Bank.  Agrarian  Reform  Issues  in  the  Philippines:  An  Assessment 

of  the  Proposal  for  an  Accelerated  Land  Reform  Program.  (Report  No. 

6776-PH.)  Washington:  March  12,  1987. 
 .  Background  Papers:  The  Poverty  Challenge  in  the  Philippines. 

Washington:  March  3,  1988. 
 Philippines:  A  Framework  for  Economic  Recovery.  Washington: 

1987. 

 World  Debt  Tables,  1990-91,  2.  Washington:  1990. 

 World  Development  Report,  1990.  New  York:  Oxford  Univer- 
sity Press  for  the  World  Bank,  1990. 

Wurfel,  David  A.  "Land  Reform:  Content,  Accomplishments,  and 
Prospects  under  Marcos  and  Aquino,"  Pilipinas,  No.  12,  Spring 
1989,  35-54. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  also  were  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Asian  Wall  Street  Journal  [Hong 
Kong];  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Report:  Philippines  [Lon- 
don]; Economic  Indicators,  published  by  the  Philippine  National 
Statistical  Coordination  Board  [Manila] ;  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 
[Hong  Kong];  Philippine  Economic  Journal  [Manila];  and  Philippine 
Review  of  Economics  and  Business  [Quezon  City,  Philippines].) 

Chapter  4 

Abueva,  Jose  V. ,  and  Raul  P.  DeGuzman.  Foundations  and  Dynamics 
of  Filipino  Government  and  Politics.  Manila:  Bookmark,  1969. 


347 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Allman,  T.D.  "One  Tough  Cory,"  Vanity  Fair,  51,  No.  2,  February 

1988,  110-15,  136-42. 

Amnesty  International.  The  Philippines:  A  Summary  of  Amnesty  Inter- 
national's Concerns.  (AI  Series.)  London:  March  1990. 

 Philippines:  Unlawful  Killings  by  Military  and  Paramilitary 

Forces.  New  York:  1988. 

Anderson,  Benedict.  "Cacique  Democracy  in  the  Philippines:  Ori- 
gins and  Dreams,"  New  Left  Review,  No.  169,  May -June  1988, 
3-31. 

Antolik,  Michael.  ASEAN  and  the  Diplomacy  of  Accommodation.  Ar- 

monk,  New  York:  Sharpe,  1990. 
Arquiza,  Yasmin  D.  *  'Toll  on  the  Atoll, ' '  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  147,  No.  7,  March  15,  1990,  32-34. 
Aruego,  Jose  M.  "The  Malolos  Constitution."  Pages  43-44  in  Jose 

V.  Abueva  and  Raul  P.  DeGuzman  (eds.),  Foundations  and  Dy- 
namics of  Filipino  Government  and  Politics .  Manila:  Bookmark,  1969. 
Asia  Watch.  "The  Philippines:  Violations  of  the  Laws  of  War  by 

Both  Sides."  New  York:  August  12,  1990. 
Asia  Yearbook,  1987.  (Ed.,  Paul  Sillitae.)  Hong  Kong:  Far  Eastern 

Economic  Review,  1987. 
Asia  Yearbook,  1988.  (Ed.,  Anthony  Dyson.)  Hong  Kong:  Far 

Eastern  Economic  Review,  1988. 
Asia  Yearbook,  1989.  (Ed.,  Anthony  Dyson.)  Hong  Kong:  Far 

Eastern  Economic  Review,  1989. 
Baker,  Russell  W.  "Rise  in  Philippine  Abuses  Cited,"  Christian 

Science  Monitor,  May  3,  1989,  8. 
Blaustein,  Susan.  "A  Few  People's  Power:  The  Philippines'  Stalled 

Revolution,"  Harper's,  282,  No.  1689,  February  1991,  70-78. 
Bonner,  Raymond.  Waltzing  with  a  Dictator:  The  Marcoses  and  the 

Making  of  American  Policy.  New  York:  Times  Books,  1987. 
 "Washington's  Philippines,"  The  New  Yorker,  October  30, 

1989,  112-18. 

Brillantes,  Alex  B.,  Jr.  "The  Executive."  Pages  113-31  in  Raul 
P.  DeGuzman  and  Mila  A.  Reforma  (eds.),  Government  and  Pol- 
itics of  the  Philippines.  Singapore:  Oxford  University  Press,  1988. 

Buruma,  Ian.  "The  Bartered  Bride,"  The  New  York  Review  of  Books, 
36,  No.  1,  June  1,  1989,  7-11. 

 "St.  Cory  and  the  Evil  Rose,"  The  New  York  Review  of 

Books,  34,  No.  10,  July  11,  1987,  10-12. 

 "Who  Can  Redeem  Mother  Filipinas?"  The  New  York 

Review  of  Books,  32,  Nos.  21-22,  January  16,  1986,  27-33. 

Buss,  Claude  A.  Cory  Aquino  and  the  People  of  the  Philippines.  Stan- 
ford, California:  Stanford  Alumni  Association,  1987. 

Catilo,  Aurora  C,  and  Prosperina  D.  Tapales.  "The  Legislature." 


348 


Bibliography 


Pages  132-63  in  Raul  P.  DeGuzman  and  Mila  A.  Reforma 
(eds.),  Government  and  Politics  of  the  Philippines.  Singapore:  Ox- 
ford University  Press,  1988. 

Che  Man,  W.K.  Muslim  Separatism:  The  Mows  of  Southern  Philip- 
pines and  the  Malays  of  Southern  Thailand.  (Southeast  Asian  Social 
Science  Monographs.)  Singapore:  Oxford  University  Press,  1990. 

Clad,  James.  "Cory's  Constitutional  Gamble,"  Far  Eastern  Eco- 
nomic Review  [Hong Kong],  135,  No.  5,  January  29,  1987,  20-25. 

 "A  Diplomatic  Dilemma,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  138,  No.  46,  November  12,  1987,  52-53. 

 .  "Factional  Fighting,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  137,  No.  29,  July  16,  1987,  20. 

 .  "Genesis  of  Despair,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  142,  No.  42,  October  20,  1988,  24-30. 

 .  "Politics  of  the  Cloth, ' '  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  136,  No.  25,  June  18,  1987,  42-47. 

 '  'The  Power  of  the  Pen, ' '  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  132,  No.  14,  April  3,  1986,  12-13. 

 .  "Running  Scared,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  137,  No.  39,  September  24,  1987,  13-14. 

 .  "Vendettas  and  Violence,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  139,  No.  3,  January  21,  1988,  32-35. 

Constantino,  Letizia  R.  "A  Nuclear- Weapons-Free  Philippines." 
Pages  1-17  in  Supplementary  Materials,  Teacher  Assistance  Program: 
Association  of  Major  Religious  Superiors  of  the  Philippines,  7.  Quezon 
City,  Philippines:  St.  Joseph's  College,  February  29,  1988. 

Constantino,  Renato.  A  History  of  the  Philippines:  From  the  Spanish 
Colonization  to  the  Second  World  War.  New  York:  Monthly  Review 
Press,  1975. 

Danquilan-Vitug,  Marites.  "Yankees,  Go  Home,"  Far  Eastern  Eco- 
nomic Review  [Hong Kong],  144,  No.  24,  June  15,  1989,  38-39. 

Davis,  Leonard.  The  Philippines:  People,  Poverty,  and  Politics.  New 
York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1987. 

DeGuzman,  Raul  P.,  and  Mila  A.  Reforma  (eds.).  Government  and 
Politics  of  the  Philippines.  Singapore:  Oxford  University  Press, 
1988. 

DeGuzman,  Raul  P.,  Alex  B.  Brillantes,  and  Arturo  G.  Pacho. 
"The  Bureaucracy."  Pages  180-206  in  Raul  P.  Guzman  and 
Mila  A.  Reforma  (eds.)  Government  and  Politics  of  the  Philippines. 
Singapore:  Oxford  University  Press,  1988. 

Denton,  Frank  H.,  with  Victoria  Villena-Denton.  Filipino  Views 
of  America:  Warm  Memories ,  Cold  Realities.  Washington:  Asia  Fel- 
lows, 1986. 

Dorr,  Steven  R.,  and  Deborah  J.  Mitchell  (eds.).  The  Philippines 


349 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


in  a  Changing  Southeast  Asia.  (DIC-2600-6225-90.)  Washington: 
Defense  Academic  Research  Support  Program,  1989. 

Flamiano,  Dolores,  and  Donald  Goertzen  (eds.).  Critical  Decade: 
Prospects  for  Democracy  in  the  Philippines  in  the  1990s.  Berkeley, 
California:  Philippine  Resource  Center,  1990. 

"14  Die  as  Philippine  Troops  Fight  Rebel  Governor,"  New  York 
Times,  March  5,  1990,  A-5. 

Galang,  Jose.  "Military  Setback,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 
[Hong  Kong],  142,  No.  49,  December  8,  1988,  14. 

Gleeck,  Lewis  E. ,  Jr.  President  Marcos  and  the  Philippine  Political  Cul- 
ture. Manila:  Loyal  Printing,  1987. 

Gomez,  Fausto  (ed.).  "The  New  Constitution  of  the  Philippines," 
Unitas:  A  Quarterly  for  the  Art  and  Sciences  [Manila],  46,  No.  3,  Sep- 
tember 1973,  300-504. 

Greene,  Fred  (ed.).  The  Philippine  Bases:  Negotiating  for  the  Future: 
American  And  Philippine  Perspectives.  New  York:  Council  on  For- 
eign Relations,  1988. 

Hernandez,  Carolina  G.  "The  Philippines  in  1987:  Challenges  of 
Redemocratization,"  Asian  Survey,  28,  No.  2,  February  1988, 
229-41. 

 .  "The  Philippines  in  1988:  Reaching  Out  to  Peace  and 

Economic  Recovery,"  Asian  Survey,  29,  No.  2,  February  1989, 
154-64. 

Joaquin,  Nick.  The  Aquinos  of  Tarlac:  An  Essay  on  History  as  Three 
Generations.  Manila:  Cacho  Hermanos,  1983. 

Johnson,  Bryan.  The  Four  Days  of  Courage:  The  Untold  Story  of  the 
People  Who  Brought  Marcos  Down.  New  York:  Free  Press,  1987. 

Jones,  Clayton.  "Aquino  Works  to  Put  Political  House  in  Or- 
der," Christian  Science  Monitor,  December  26,  1989,  4. 

 .  "Winning  Filipino  Hearts  and  Minds,"  Christian  Science 

Monitor,  February  22,  1989,  6. 

Jones,  Gregg  R.  Red  Revolution:  Inside  the  Philippine  Guerrilla  Move- 
ment. San  Francisco:  Westview  Press,  1989. 

Karnow,  Stanley.  "Cory  Aquino's  Downhill  Slide,"  New  York  Times 
Magazine,  August  19,  1990,  24-28. 

 In  Our  Image:  America 's  Empire  in  the  Philippines.  New  York: 

Random  House,  1989. 

Katchen,  Martin  H.  "The  Spratiy  Islands  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea: 
'Dangerous  Ground'  for  Asian  Peace,"  Asian  Survey,  17,  No. 
12,  December  1977,  1167-81. 

Kerkvliet,  Benedict  J.  Everyday  Politics  in  the  Philippines.  Berkeley: 
University  of  California  Press,  1990. 

Kessler,  Richard  J.  The  Philippines  under  Corazon  Aquino:  An  Assessment 


350 


Bibliography 


of  the  First  Two  Years  and  the  Challenges  Ahead.  New  York:  Asia 
Society,  1988. 

Lande,  Carl  H.  Leaders,  Factions,  and  Parties:  The  Structure  of  Philip- 
pine Politics.  (Southeast  Asia  Studies  Monograph  Series,  No.  6.) 
New  Haven:  Yale  University,  1964. 

Lande,  Carl  H.  (ed.).  Rebuilding  a  Nation:  Philippine  Challenges  and 
American  Policy.  Washington:  The  Washington  Institute  Press, 
1987. 

Liu,  Melinda.  "Resistance  on  the  Right:  Landowner  Armies  in 

Philippine  Sugar  Country,"  Newsweek,  August  10,  1987,  44. 
McBeth,  John.  "The  Boss  System,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  145,  No.  37,  September  14,  1989,  36-43. 
 "Going  It  Alone  on  Autonomy,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 

Review  [Hong  Kong],  147,  No.  7,  February  15,  1990,  30-31. 
 "A  Lesson  in  Diplomacy,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  146,  No.  46,  November  16,  1989,  25. 
.  "The  Purse  Strings,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  146,  No.  47,  November  23,  1989,  33-35. 
 "Sharpening  the  Sword,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  147,  No.  11,  March  15,  1990,  10-11. 
 "Who  Are  YOU?,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  148,  No.  3,  June  7,  1990,  24-26. 
McCoy,  Alfred  W.  "Ram  Boys:  Superstars  in  the  Theater-State 

of  Terror."  Pages  4-12  in  Dolores  Flamiano  and  Donald  Goert- 

zen  (eds.),  Critical  Decade:  Prospects  for  Democracy  in  the  Philippines 

in  the  1990s.  Berkeley,  California:  Philippine  Resource  Center, 

1990. 

Mercado,  Monina  Allarey  (ed.).  People  Power:  An  Eyewitness  Histo- 
ry of  the  Philippine  Revolution  of  1986.  New  York:  Tenth  Avenue 
Editions,  1986. 

Mijares,  Primitive  The  Conjugal  Dictatorship  of  Ferdinand  and  Imelda 
Marcos  I.  San  Francisco:  Union  Square,  1976. 

Muego,  Benjamin  N.  "The  New  Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines 
and  the  Aquino  Regime."  Pages  1-12  in  Steven  R.  Dorr  and 
Deborah  J.  Mitchell  (eds.),  The  Philippines  in  a  Changing  Southeast 
Asia.  (DIC-2600-6225-90.)  Washington:  Defense  Academic 
Research  Support  Program,  1989. 

 Spectator  Society:  The  Philippines  under  Martial  Rule.  (Mono- 
graphs in  International  Studies:  Southeast  Asia  Series,  No.  77.) 
Athens,  Ohio:  Center  for  International  Studies,  Ohio  Univer- 
sity, 1988. 

"Mutiny  in  Manila,"  Newsweek,  September  7,  1987,  26-29. 
"Mutiny  in  Mindanao,"  Time,  October  15,  1990,  66. 


351 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Mydans,  Seth.  "Coalition  That  Chased  Marcos  Disintegrates," 
New  York  Times,  September  20,  1987. 

 .  "In  Post-Marcos  Philippines  Corruption  Still  a  Way  of 

Life,"  New  York  Times,  October  17,  1988,  1,4. 

Nagara,  Bunn.  "The  Revolt  in  the  Philippines,"  Asian  Defence  Jour- 
nal [Kuala  Lumpur],  February  1990,  4-15. 

Nelson,  Anne.  "In  the  Grotto  of  the  Pink  Sisters,"  Mother  Jones, 
13,  No.  1,  January  1988,  19-24,  49-52. 

Nemenzo,  Gemma.  "The  Philippines'  New  Breed  of  Soldiers." 
Pages  13-17  in  Dolores  Flamiano  and  Donald  Goertzen  (eds.), 
Critical  Decade:  Prospects  for  Democracy  in  the  Philippines  in  the  1990s. 
Berkeley,  California:  Philippine  Resource  Center,  1990. 

Noble,  Lela  Garner.  Philippine  Policy  Toward  Sabah:  A  Claim  to  In- 
dependence. (Association  for  Asian  Studies  Monograph  No.  33.) 
Tucson:  University  of  Arizona  Press,  1977. 

Pertierra,  Raul.  Religion,  Politics,  and  Rationality  in  a  Philippine  Com- 
munity. Honolulu:  University  of  Hawaii  Press,  1988. 

Philippines.  Constitutional  Commission  of  1986.  The  Constitution 
of  the  Republic  of  the  Philippines .  Quezon  City,  Philippines:  Com- 
mission on  Elections,  1986. 

Porter,  Gareth.  "Strategic  Debates  and  Dilemmas  in  the  Philip- 
pine Communist  Movement."  Pages  13-32  in  Steven  R.  Dorr 
and  Deborah  J.  Mitchell  (eds.),  The  Philippines  in  a  Changing 
Southeast  Asia.  (DIC -26000-62 2 5-90.)  Washington:  Defense  Aca- 
demic Research  Support  Program,  1989. 

"Re-emergence  of  Torture,"  AI  Newsletter  [New  York],  19,  No. 
1,  January  1989,  8. 

Richburg,  Keith  B.  "Coup  Attempts  Are  Becoming  a  Way  of  Life 
for  Cory  Aquino,"  Washington  Post,  December  12,  1989,  A42. 

 "In  the  Shadows,  a  Well-Prepared  Threat  to  Philippine 

Democracy,"  Washington  Post  (National  Weekly  Edition),  June 
4-10,  1990,  24-25. 

Rosenberg,  David  A.  "Political  and  Economic  Reforms  of  the 
Aquino  Government."  Pages  33-51  in  Steven  R.  Dorr  and 
Deborah  J.  Mitchell  (eds.),  The  Philippines  in  a  Changing  Southeast 
Asia.  (DIC-2600-6255-90.)  Washington:  Defense  Academic 
Research  Support  Program,  1989. 

Sacerdoti,  Guy.  "Cory's  Basic-Law  Makers,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 
Review  [Hong  Kong],  132,  No.  23,  June  5,  1986,  16-18. 

 .  "Her  House  in  Order,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  131,  No.  12,  March  20,  1986,  14-15. 

San  Juan,  E.  Crisis  in  the  Philippines:  The  Making  of  a  Revolution.  South 
Hadley,  Massachusetts:  Bergin  and  Garvey,  1986. 


352 


Bibliography 


Seagrave,  Sterling.  The  Marcos  Dynasty.  New  York:  Fawcett  Colum- 
bine, 1988. 

Shahani,  Leticia  Ramos.  "A  Moral  Recovery  Program:  Building 
a  People — Building  a  Nation. ' '  (Report  submitted  to  the  Philip- 
pine Senate  Committee  on  Education,  Arts,  and  Culture,  and 
Philippine  Senate  Committee  on  Social  Justice,  Welfare,  and 
Development,  May  9,  1988.)  Manila:  1988. 

Simons,  Lewis  M.  Worth  Dying  For.  New  York:  Morrow,  1987. 

Stauffer,  Bob.  Philippine  Democracy:  Contradiction  of  Third  World 
Redemocratization.  (Center  for  Philippine  Studies,  Discussion  Paper 
No.  7.)  Honolulu:  School  of  Hawaiian,  Asian,  and  Pacific 
Studies,  University  of  Hawaii,  1990. 

Steinberg,  David  Joel.  The  Philippines:  A  Singular  and  a  Plural  Place. 
(2d  ed.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1990. 

Sussman,  Gerald.  "Politics  and  the  Press:  The  Philippines  since 
Marcos,"  Bulletin  of  Concerned  Asian  Scholars,  20,  No.  4,  1988, 
34-43. 

Tancangco,  Luzviminda  G.  "The  Electoral  System  and  Political 
Parties  in  the  Philippines."  Pages  77-112  in  Raul  P.  DeGuz- 
man  and  Mila  A.  Reforma  (eds.),  Government  and  Politics  of  the 
Philippines.  Singapore:  Oxford  University  Press,  1988. 

Tasker,  Rodney.  "Philippines  Puts  Out  Welcome  Mat  for  Shevard- 
nadze," Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  143,  No.  1, 
January  5,  1989,  12-13. 

"There  Is  Always  a  Next  Time,"  Time,  December  18,  1989,  28-30. 

Tiglao,  Rigoberto.  "With  Strings  Attached,"  Far  Eastern  Econom- 
ic Review  [Hong  Kong],  144,  No.  20,  May  18,  1989,  59. 

Timberman,  David  G.  "The  Philippines  in  1989:  A  Good  Year 
Turns  Sour,"  Asian  Survey,  30,  No.  2,  February  1990,  167-77. 

 "The  Philippines  in  1990:  On  Shaky  Ground,"  Asian  Sur- 
vey, 31.  No.  2,  February  1991,  153-61. 

United  States.  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook, 
1990.  Washington:  GPO,  1990. 

Van  der  Kroef,  Justus  M.  "The  Philippines:  Day  of  the 
Vigilantes,"  Asian  Survey,  28,  No.  6,  June  1988,  639-49. 

 .  "The  'Rambo  Mystique':  Philippine  Para-Military  and 

Society,"  Internationales  Asienforum  [Munich],  21,  Nos.  1-2,  1990, 
5-37. 

Villacorta,  Wilfrido  V.  "The  Dynamics  and  Processes  of  Writing 
the  1987  Constitution,"  Philippine  Journal  of  Public  Administration 
[Manila],  32,  Nos.  3-4,  July-October  1988,  299-309. 

Villegas,  Bernardo  M.  "The  Philippines  in  1986:  Democratic 
Reconstruction  in  the  Post-Marcos  Era,"  Asian  Survey,  27,  No. 
2,  February  1987,  194-205. 


353 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Wurfel,  David  A.  Filipino  Politics:  Development  and  Decay.  Ithaca:  Cor- 
nell University  Press,  1988. 

Youngblood,  Robert  L.  Marcos  Against  the  Church:  Economic  Develop- 
ment and  Political  Repression  in  the  Philippines.  Ithaca:  Cornell 
University  Press,  1990. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publication  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Asian  Survey,  1988-91.) 


Chapter  5 

"Air  Force  Seeks  US$2.5  Billion  for  Upgrading,"  Asian  Defence 

Journal  [Kuala  Lumpur],  October  1990,  105. 
Amnesty  International  Report,  1988.  London:  1989. 
Arillo,  Cecil  T.  Breakaway:  The  Inside  Story  of  the  Four-Day  Revolution 

in  the  Philippines.  Manila:  CTA  and  Associates,  1986. 
Asia  1991  Yearbook.  Hong  Kong:  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review, 

1991. 

Bacho,  Peter.  "Rural  Revolt  in  the  Philippines:  Threats  to  Sta- 
bility, "Journal  of  International  Affairs,  40,  No.  2,  Winter-Spring 
1987,  257-70. 

 .  "U.S. -Philippine  Relations  in  Transition:  The  Issue  of 

the  Bases,"  Asian  Survey,  28,  No.  6,  June  1988,  650-60. 

Berlin,  Donald  L.  "Prelude  to  Martial  Law:  An  Examination  of 
Pre-1972  Philippine  Civil-Military  Relations."  (Ph.D.  disser- 
tation.) Columbia:  Department  of  Government  and  International 
Studies,  University  of  South  Carolina,  1982. 

Bito,  Misa,  and  Loada.  "Philippine  Republic  Law  Digest."  Pages 
1-29  in  Martindale-Hubbell Law  Directory,  8.  (121st  ed.)  Chicago: 
Martindale-Hubbell,  1988. 

Chapman,  William.  Inside  the  Philippine  Revolution.  New  York:  Nor- 
ton, 1987. 

Clad,  James.  "Anatomy  of  a  Red  Revolution,"  Far  Eastern  Eco- 
nomic Review  [Hong  Kong],  140,  No.  30,  July  28,  1988,  12-14. 

"The  Davide  Commission  Report,"  Manila  Bulletin  [Manila],  De- 
cember 2,  1990,  D4-D5. 

Davis,  Leonard.  Revolutionary  Struggle  in  the  Philippines.  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1989. 

DeVilla,  Renato  S.  "The  Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines."  Pages 
56,  244  in  Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Fookien  Times  Philippines  Year- 
book, 1987-88.  Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1988. 

The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1989,  London:  Europa,  1989. 


354 


Bibliography 


Fallows,  James.  ''The  Bases  Dilemma,"  The  Atlantic  Monthly,  Febru- 
ary 1988,  18-27. 

 .  "A  Damaged  Culture,"  The  Atlantic  Monthly,  November 

1987,  49-58. 

Feliciano,  Myrna  S.  "The  Legal  System  of  the  Philippines."  Pages 

637-79  in  Kenneth  Robert  Redden  (ed.),  Modern  Legal  Systems 

Cyclopedia.  Buffalo,  New  York:  Hein,  1985. 
Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service — FBIS  (Washington).  The 

following  items  are  from  the  FBIS  series: 

Daily  Report:  East  Asia. 

"Accord  to  Define  Functions  of  National  Police,"  Manila  Chroni- 
cle, December  19,  1990.  (FBIS-EAS-90-245.)  December  20, 
1990,  51-52. 

"Aquino  Explains  Peace  Process,  National  Security  Council," 
Radio  Veritas  [Manila],  September  7,  1990.  (FBIS-EAS-90- 
179.)  September  14,  1990,  58. 

"Ileto,  Ramos  'Contend'  on  Counterinsurgency,"  Manila  Chroni- 
cle [Manila],  April  6,  1989.  (FBIS-EAS-89-068.)  April  11, 

1989,  46-48. 

"National  Security  Adviser  to  Oversee  Intelligence,"  Daily  Globe 
[Manila],  March  30,  1990.  (FBIS-EAS-90-062.)  March  30, 

1990,  55-56. 

"New  Intelligence  Chief  to  Lead  Coup  Manhunt,"  Manila 
Chronicle,  January  30,  1990.  (FBIS-EAS-90-021.)  January  31, 
1990,  42-43. 

Galicia- Hernandez,  Carolina.  "The  Extent  of  Civilian  Control  of 
the  Military  in  the  Philippines:  1946-1976."  (Ph.D.  disserta- 
tion.) Buffalo:  State  University  of  New  York  at  Buffalo,  1979. 

Greenberg,  Lawrence  M.  "The  Hukbalahap  Insurrection:  A  Case 
Study  of  a  Successful  Anti-Insurgency  Operation  in  the  Philip- 
pines." Washington:  United  States  Army  Center  of  Military  His- 
tory, 1986. 

Greene,  Fred  (ed.).  The  Philippine  Bases:  Negotiating  for  the  Future: 
American  and  Philippine  Perspectives.  New  York:  Council  on  For- 
eign Relations,  1988. 

Guerrero,  Amado  [Jose  Maria  Sison].  Philippine  Society  and  Revolu- 
tion. Oakland,  California:  International  Association  of  Filipino 
Patriots,  1979. 

Hernandez,  Carolina  G.  "The  Role  of  the  Military  in  Contem- 
porary Philippine  Society,"  Diliman  Review  [Manila],  32,  No. 
1,  January-February  1984. 

International  Criminal  Police  Organization.  International  Crime  Statis- 
tics. Paris:  INTERPOL,  1988. 


355 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 

Jane's  All  the  World's  Aircraft,  1989-90.  (Ed. ,  John  W.R.  Taylor.) 

Coulsdon,  Surrey,  United  Kingdom:  Jane's,  1989. 
Jane's  Armour  and  Artillery,  1990-91.  (Ed.,  Christopher  F.  Foss.) 

Coulsdon,  Surrey,  United  Kingdom:  Jane's,  1990. 
Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1990-91.  (Ed.,  Richard  Sharpe).  Coulsdon, 

Surrey,  United  Kingdom:  Jane's,  1990. 
Jane's  Infantry  Weapons,  1990-91.  (Ed.,  Ian  V.  Hogg.)  Coulsdon, 

Surrey,  United  Kingdom:  Jane's,  1990. 
Jones,  Gregg  R.  Red  Revolution:  Inside  the  Philippine  Guerrilla  Move- 
ment. Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1989. 
Kamen,  Al.  "U.S.  Nears  Pact  on  Bases  in  Philippines,"  Washington 

Post,  114,  No.  87,  March  2,  1991,  A8. 
Karnow,  Stanley.  In  Our  Image:  America's  Empire  in  the  Philippines. 

New  York:  Random  House,  1989. 
Kerkvliet,  Benedict  J.  The  Huk  Rebellion:  A  Study  of  Peasant  Revolt 

in  the  Philippines.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1977. 
Kessler,  Richard  J.  Rebellion  and  Repression  in  the  Philippines.  New 

Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1989. 
Lachica,  Eduardo.  The  Huks:  Philippine  Agrarian  Society  in  Revolt. 

New  York:  Praeger,  1971. 
Liu,  Melinda.  "A  Talk  with  'Gringo,'  "  Newsweek,  115,  January 

1,  1990,  2. 

Lorimer,  Norman.  "Philippine  Communism:  An  Historical  Over- 
view, "Journal  of  Contemporary  A  sia  [Stockholm],  7,  No.  4,  1977, 
462-85. 

McBeth,  John.  "Clans  in  Conflict,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  149,  No.  36,  September  6,  1990,  27-32. 
 .  "Gunning  for  Cory,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  146,  No.  50,  December  14,  1989,  12-14. 
 .  "Time  for  Toughness,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  146,  No.  51,  December  21,  1989,  11-13. 
McDonald,  Robert.  "MNLF  Gears  For  Battle— But  Weapons  Are 

a  Problem."  Pacific  Defence  Reporter  [Melbourne],  13,  No.  11, 

May  1987,  13-16. 
Magno,  Jose  P. ,  Jr. ,  and  A.  James  Gregor.  ' 'Insurgency  and  Coun- 

terinsurgency  in  the  Philippines,"  Asian  Survey,  26,  No.  5,  May 

1986,  501-17. 

Majul,  Cesar  Abid.  "The  Moros  of  the  Philippines,"  Conflict,  8, 

Nos.  2-3,  1988,  169-84. 
Malajacan,  Marcelino  Q. ,  Jr.  '  'Anti-Communist  Vigilantes  in  the 

Philippines."  Fort  Leavenworth,  Kansas:  United  States  Army 

Command  and  General  Staff  College,  1988. 
Mediansky,  F.A.  "The  New  People's  Army:  A  Nationwide 


356 


Bibliography 


Insurgency  in  the  Philippines,"  Contemporary  Southeast  Asia  [Sin- 
gapore], 8,  No.  1,  June  1986,  1-17. 

The  Military  Balance,  1990-91.  London:  International  Institute  for 
Strategic  Studies,  1990. 

"The  Modernisation  of  the  Philippine  Navy,"  International  Defence 
Review  [Coulsdon,  Surrey,  United  Kingdom],  23,  No.  1,  Janu- 
ary 1990,  87-88. 

Nagara,  Bunn.  "The  Revolt  in  the  Philippines,"  Asian  Defence  Jour- 
nal [Kuala  Lumpur],  February  1990,  4-15. 

Niksch,  Larry.  "Philippines  May  Be  the  Big  Loser,"  Asia-Pacific 
Defence  Reporter  [Sydney],  17,  No.  2,  August  1990,  7-9. 

Philippines.  Constitutional  Commission  of  1986.  The  Constitution 
of  the  Republic  of  the  Philippines .  Quezon  City,  Philippines:  Com- 
mission on  Elections,  1986. 

 National  Statistics  Office.  Philippine  Yearbook,  1987.  Manila: 

1987. 

 .  Public  Information  Office.  The  Constabulary  Story.  Ma- 
nila: Bustamente  Press,  1981. 

"Philippines. ' '  Pages  875-78  in  The  Far  East  and  Australasia,  1990. 
(21st  ed.)  London:  Europa,  1989. 

"PNPA,"  The  Constable  and INP Journal  [Quezon  City:  Philippines], 
20,  No.  4,  July-August  1988,  24-25. 

Porter,  Gareth.  "Philippine  Communism  after  Marcos,"  Problems 
of  Communism,  36,  No.  5,  September-October  1987,  15-35. 

 "The  Politics  of  Counterinsurgency  in  the  Philippines: 

Military  and  Political  Options."  (Philippine  Studies,  Occasional 
Paper  No.  9.)  Honolulu:  Center  for  Philippine  Studies,  Univer- 
sity of  Hawaii,  1987. 

Ramos,  Fidel  V.  "The  DND-AFP:  Leading  the  People  for 
Democracy."  Pages  54,  240-43  in  Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Foo- 
kien  Times  Philippines  Yearbook,  1987-88.  Manila:  Fookien  Times, 
1989. 

 "Protecting  the  Gains,  Accelerating  the  Momentum." 

Pages  58,  325-29  in  Betty  Go  Belmonte  (ed.),  Fookien  Times  Philip- 
pines Yearbook,  1990.  Manila:  Fookien  Times,  1991. 

 "Why  the  Philippines  Needs  a  Strong  Defence."  Asian 

Defence  Journal  [Kuala  Lumpur] ,  No.  12,  December  1988,  32-34. 

Richardson,  Michael.  "The  Philippine  Catholic  Church:  Com- 
munist Subversion  from  Within?"  Pacific  Defence  Reporter 
[Kunyung,  Australia],  13,  No.  5,  November  1986,  29-30. 

 "Vigilantes  Succeed  CHDF,  But  Will  They  Be  Any  Bet- 
ter?" Pacific  Defence  Reporter  [Kunyung,  Australia],  13,  No.  11, 
May  1987,  16-18. 

Richburg,  Keith.  "The  Real  Danger  to  Aquino:  A  Leftist  Army 


357 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Cabal  Wants  Another  Filipino  Revolution,"  Washington  Post, 

May  20,  1990,  B1-B2. 
Saaid,  Shuhud.  "The  New  Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines;  Part 

1:  OPLAN  MAMAMAYAN  and  the  Unfinished  Revolution," 

Asian  Defence  Journal  [Kuala  Lumpur],  January  1987,  4-32. 
Simons,  Lewis  M.  Worth  Dying  For.  New  York:  Morrow,  1987. 
Sison,  Jose  Maria,  with  Ranier  Werning.  The  Philippine  Revolution: 

The  Leader's  View.  New  York:  Crane  Russak,  1989. 
"Special  Report — The  Republic  of  the  Philippines. "  Journal  of 

Defense  and  Diplomacy,  No.  7,  July- August  1989,  40-51. 
Stephen,  Robert  B.   "Counterinsurgency  in  the  Philippines: 

Problems  and  Prospects."  (CLIC  Papers.)  Langley  Air  Force 

Base,  Virginia:  United  States  Army  and  Air  Force  Center  for 

Low  Intensity  Conflict,  1989. 
Sturtevant,  David  R.  Popular  Uprisings  in  the  Philippines,  1840-1940. 

Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press,  1976. 
Taruc,  Luis.  He  Who  Rides  the  Tiger.  New  York:  Praeger,  1967. 
Tucker,  Anthony  R.  "Counter-Insurgency  in  the  Philippines," 

Armed  Forces  [Shepperton,  United  Kingdom],  No.  8,  August  1989, 

374-78. 

United  States.  Armed  Forces  Information  Service.  "Internation- 
al Security  Relationships,"  Defense  90,  November-December 
1990,  44-45. 

 .  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World  Military 

Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1989.  Washington:  GPO,  1989. 

 Army  Training  Board.  Allied  Army  Training  Study  of  the 

Republic  of  the  Philippines.  Fort  Monroe,  Virginia,  1989. 

 .  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook,  1990. 

Washington:  GPO,  1990. 

 .  Department  of  Defense.  Defense  Security  Assistance  Agen- 
cy. Congressional  Presentation:  Security  Assistance  Programs,  FY  1988. 
Washington:  Department  of  Defense,  1987. 

 .  Department  of  State.  Administration  of  Justice  in  the  Philip- 
pines. (Report  submitted  to  the  United  States  Congress,  101st, 
2d  Session,  Senate,  Committee  on  Appropriations.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  March  30,  1990. 

 Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1989.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress,  101st, 
2d  Session,  House  of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign 
Affairs,  and  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  1990. 

 .  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  International  Narcotics 

Matters.  International  Narcotics  Control  Strategy  Report.  (Report  sub- 
mitted to  the  United  States  Congress,  101st,  2d  Session,  House 


358 


Bibliography 


of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  March  1990. 

 .  Department  of  State.  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  State.  Coor- 
dinator for  Counter-Terrorism.  Fact  Sheet:  The  New  People's  Army. 
Washington:  November  16,  1989. 

Valencia,  Mark  J.  "Spratly  Dispute,"  The  Nation  [Bangkok],  De- 
cember 3,  1990,  A12. 

Valeriano,  Napoleon,  and  Charles  T.R.  Bohannan.  Counter- guerrilla 
Operations:  The  Philippine  Experience.  New  York:  Praeger,  1962. 

Van  der  Kroef,  Justus  M.  Aquino's  Philippines:  The  Deepening  Secu- 
rity Crisis.  London:  Center  for  Security  and  Conflict  Studies, 
1988. 

Warner,  Denis.  "Rural  Poverty  NPA's  Greatest  Asset,"  Pacific 
Defence  Reporter  [Kunyung,  Australia],  13,  No.  12,  June  1987, 
11-12. 

Yearbook  on  International  Communist  Affairs:  Parties  and  Revolutionary 
Movements.  (Ed.,  Richard  F.  Staar.)  Stanford,  California:  Hoover 
Institution  Press,  1990. 

Young,  P.  Lewis.  "After  the  Coup:  A  Report  on  the  Philippines," 
Asian  Defence  Journal  [Kuala  Lumpur],  No.  3,  March  1990,  6-7. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Asian  Defence  Journal  [Kuala  Lum- 
pur], 1988-91;  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  1988-91; 
and  Pacific  Defence  Reporter  [Kunyung,  Australia],  1988-91.) 


359 


Glossary 


barangay — Malay  term  for  boat;  also  came  to  be  used  for  the  com- 
munal settlements  established  by  migrants  who  came  from  the 
Indonesian  archipelago  and  elsewhere.  The  term  replaces  the 
word  barrio,  formerly  used  to  identify  the  lowest  political  sub- 
division in  the  Philippines. 

Brady  Plan — A  plan  proposed  by  United  States  Treasury  secre- 
tary Nicholas  Brady  for  lending  by  the  International  Mone- 
tary Fund  (q. v.),  World  Bank  (q. v.),  and  creditor  governments 
to  finance  debtor  country  purchase  of  their  foreign-currency 
debt  at  the  discounted  prices  at  which  the  debt  instruments  were 
trading  in  secondary  markets. 

colorums — Folk  Christian  religious  communities  derived  from  the 
1839-41  Cofradfade  San  Jose  movement,  which  spread  through 
the  islands  thereafter  and  were  the  focus  of  resistance  to  Ameri- 
can rule  in  the  early  twentieth  century.  Term  derived  from  the 
phrase  per  omnia  saecula  saeculorum  (world  without  end),  which 
Roman  Catholic  priests  used  to  close  their  Latin  prayers. 

Cominform  (Communist  Information  Bureau) — An  internation- 
al organization  of  communist  parties,  founded  and  controlled 
by  the  Soviet  Union  in  1947  and  dissolved  in  1956.  The  Comin- 
form published  propaganda  touting  international  communist 
solidarity  but  was  primarily  a  tool  of  Soviet  foreign  policy. 

crony — A  term  used  to  describe  an  individual  who  was  able  to  ex- 
ploit connections  with  former  President  Marcos  to  gain  wealth 
and  economic  position. 

current  account — Exports  and  imports  of  goods  and  services,  net 
factor  income  from  abroad,  and  unilateral  transfers  (gifts  and 
foreign  aid). 

EDSA  Revolution — The  February  1986  uprising,  also  called  Peo- 
ple's Power  (q.v.),  that  ousted  President  Ferdinard  E.  Mar- 
cos. EDSA  stands  for  Epifanio  de  los  Santos,  a  ring  road  around 
Manila  that  was  the  site  of  confrontation  between  pro- Marcos 
and  anti-Marcos  forces. 

exclusive  economic  zone  (EEZ) — A  wide  belt  of  sea  and  seabed  ad- 
jacent to  the  national  boundaries  where  the  state  claims  preferen- 
tial fishing  rights  and  control  over  the  exploitation  of  mineral 
and  other  natural  resources.  Boundary  disagreements  with  neigh- 
boring states  sometimes  prevent  the  extension  of  the  EEZ  to  the 
full  limits  claimed.  The  Philippines  claims  a  200-nautical  mile 
EEZ,  now  considered  the  international  standard. 


361 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


fiscal  year  (FY) — Calendar  year. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — A  value  measure  of  the  flow  of 
domestic  goods  and  services  produced  by  an  economy  over  a 
period  of  time,  such  as  a  year.  Only  output  values  of  goods 
for  final  consumption  and  investment  are  included  because  the 
values  of  primary  and  intermediate  production  are  assumed 
to  be  included  in  final  prices.  GDP  is  sometimes  aggregated 
and  shown  at  market  prices,  meaning  that  indirect  taxes  and 
subsidies  are  included;  when  these  have  been  eliminated,  the 
result  is  GDP  at  factor  cost.  The  word  gross  indicates  that  deduc- 
tions for  depreciation  of  physical  assets  have  not  been  made. 
See  also  gross  national  product. 

gross  national  product  (GNP) — Gross  domestic  product  (q.  v. )  plus 
the  net  income  or  loss  stemming  from  transactions  with  for- 
eign countries.  GNP  is  the  broadest  measurement  of  the  out- 
put of  goods  and  services  of  an  economy.  It  can  be  calculated 
at  market  prices,  which  include  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies. 
Because  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies  are  only  transfer  payments, 
GNP  is  often  calculated  at  factor  cost  by  removing  indirect  taxes 
and  subsidies. 

Huks,  or  Huk — Short  form  of  Hukbalahap,  itself  the  abbreviated 
form  of  the  Tagalog  name  for  the  guerrilla  force  established 
in  1942,  known  as  the  People's  Anti-Japanese  Army  (Hukbong 
Bayan  Laban  sa  Hapon).  In  1946  renamed  the  People's  Liber- 
ation Army  (Hukbong  Mapagpalaya  ng  Bayan). 

ilustrados — Literally,  enlightened  ones,  the  Philippine  elite  during 
the  Spanish  colonial  period. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  (q.v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  and  is  responsible  for  stabiliz- 
ing international  exchange  loans  to  its  members  (including  in- 
dustrialized and  developing  countries)  when  they  experience 
balance  of  payments  difficulties.  These  loans  frequently  carry 
conditions  that  require  substantial  internal  economic  adjust- 
ments by  the  recipients,  most  of  which  are  developing  countries. 

liberation  theology — An  activist  movement  led  by  Roman  Catholic 
clergy  who  trace  their  inspiration  to  Vatican  Council  II 
(1963-65),  where  some  church  views  were  liberalized,  and  the 
Second  Latin  American  Bishops'  Conference  in  Medellm, 
Colombia  (1968),  which  endorsed  greater  direct  efforts  to  im- 
prove the  lot  of  the  poor.  Advocates  of  liberation  theology  have 
introduced  a  radical  interpretation  of  the  Bible,  one  that  em- 
ploys Marxist  terminology  to  analyze  and  condemn  the  wide 
disparities  between  the  wealthy  elite  and  the  impoverished 


362 


Glossary 


masses  in  most  underdeveloped  countries.  This  reflection  often 
leads  advocates  to  organize  to  improve  living  standards  through 
cooperatives  and  civic  improvement  projects. 

mestizos — The  offspring  of  Filipino  and  non-Filipino  marriages; 
includes  those  of  Spanish-Filipino  parentage  (Spanish  mesti- 
zos) and  Chinese-Filipino  parentage  (Chinese  mestizos). 

Metro  Manila — Metropolitan  Manila;  also  called  the  National  Cap- 
ital Region.  Includes  the  cities  of  Manila,  Pasay,  Caloocan, 
and  Quezon  City  and  several  other  major  population  centers. 

Moro — Spanish  word  for  Moor;  name  given  by  Spanish  to  Mus- 
lim Filipinos  and  still  used.  Moros  mosdy  inhabit  southern  and 
eastern  Mindanao,  the  Sulu  Archipelago,  and  Palawan  and 
have  not  become  assimilated  into  the  mainstream  of  Philip- 
pine society. 

net  domestic  product/net  national  product  (NDP/NNP) — Gross  na- 
tional product  (q.  v.)  or  gross  domestic  product  (q.  v.)  less  capi- 
tal consumption  allowance  and  indirect  taxes  or  subsidies. 

People's  Power — The  popular  uprising  that  ousted  President  Fer- 
dinard  E.  Marcos  in  February  1986.  The  movement  was  best 
known  as  People's  Power  in  the  United  States,  but  in  the  Philip- 
pines it  was  also  referred  to  as  the  EDS  A  Revolution  (q.v.). 

peso  (P) — Philippine  currency,  which  is  subdivided  into  100  cen- 
tavos.  In  December  1991,  the  official  exchange  rate  was  US$1 
equals  P26.70. 

structural  adjustment  loan — A  program  loan,  often  by  the  World 
Bank  (q.v.),  to  effect  a  structural  adjustment  program  to  liber- 
alize an  economy,  involving  maintaining  a  flexible  exchange 
rate,  lowering  tariffs,  removing  quantitative  restrictions  on  in- 
ternational trade,  and  relaxing  price  and  other  market  controls. 

Sunni  (from  sunna,  Arabic  for  orthodox  A  member  of  the  larger 

of  the  two  great  divisions  of  Islam. 

Tagalog — Large  ethnolinguistic  group  indigenous  to  central  and 
southern  Luzon,  particularly  around  Manila.  The  Tagalog  lan- 
guage is  the  basis  for  Pilipino,  the  national  language  of  the 
Philippines. 

terms  of  trade — The  average  price  of  exports  divided  by  the  aver- 
age price  of  imports;  the  quantity  of  imports  that  can  be  pur- 
chased per  unit  of  exports. 

value  added — Price  of  output  less  purchased  inputs;  valuation  of 
contribution  by  enterprise  to  the  product;  sum  of  wages,  in- 
terest, rent,  and  profit. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  three 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 


363 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Development  Association  (IDA),  and  the  International  Finance 
Corporation  (IFC).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  the 
primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to  developing  countries  for 
productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund  but 
administered  by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to 
furnish  credits  to  the  poorest  developing  countries  on  much  eas- 
ier terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC, 
founded  in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD 
through  loans  and  assistance  designed  specifically  to  encourage 
the  growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  the  less  devel- 
oped countries.  The  president  and  certain  senior  officers  of  the 
IBRD  hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC.  The  three  institu- 
tions are  owned  by  the  governments  of  the  countries  that  sub- 
scribe their  capital.  To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group, 
member  states  must  first  belong  to  the  International  Mone- 
tary Fund  (IMF — q.v.). 


364 


Index 


abaca,  9;  export  of,  10,  120 
abortion,  226 

acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 

(AIDS),  113,  114,  234 
AFP.  See  Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines 
Aglipay,  Gregorio,  37,  102 
Agrarian  Commission,  46 
agrarian  reform,  46,  149-51;  in  economic 

plans,  129;  lack  of,  231 
Agrava,  Corazon,  57 
agribusiness,  178 

agricultural:  geography,  135-36;  markets, 
136-38 

agricultural  production,  xxxi,  136-39;  fer- 
tilizer consumption  for,  139;  value  add- 
ed in,  136,  139 

agricultural  products,  54;  abaca,  9,  10, 
120;  bananas,  120,  136,  179;  coconuts, 
120,  136,  140,  143;  corn,  8,  120,  136; 
export  of,  9,  10,  120,  139;  indigo,  9; 
mulberry  trees,  9;  opium  poppies,  9; 
peppers,  9;  pineapples,  120,  136,  147, 
178,  179;  rice,  84,  120,  136,  138, 
139-40,  147;  silk,  9;  sugar,  9,  10,  11, 
20,  54,  120,  136,  143-47;  tea,  9;  tobac- 
co, 10 

agriculture:  under  Aquino,  138;  credit 
for,  138;  employment  in,  166-68;  for- 
eign exchange  from,  120;  land  used  for, 
135;  under  Marcos,  138;  under  mar- 
tial law,  123,  146;  multicropping,  136; 
as  percentage  of  gross  national  product, 
119;  slash-and-burn,  152;  value  added 
in,  139;  work  force  in,  119,  136,  166 

Aguinaldo,  Emilio,  21,  22,  102;  allegiance 
of,  to  United  States,  27;  captured,  27; 
exiled,  22;  inaugurated,  25;  negotia- 
tions of,  with  United  States,  22-23 

Aguinaldo  administration:  armed  forces 
under,  245;  accomplishments  of,  25; 
exile  of,  26;  reaction  of,  to  United 
States  rule,  26 

Agusan  River,  69 

AIDS.  See  acquired  immune  deficiency 
syndrome 

air  force,  168-69;  aircraft,  269;  bases, 
268;  chain  of  command,  268;  materiel, 


269;  mission  of,  268;  plans  to  moder- 
nize, 260;  strength  of,  256,  269 
Air  Force  Flying  School,  268 
Air  Force  Security  Command,  268 
Alejandrino,  Casto,  45 
Alsa  Masa  (Masses  Arise),  228,  229,  272 
Americans:  as  Filipinos,  76;  as  land- 
owners, 34;  targeted  by  New  People's 
Army,  288-89 
Amnesty  International,  229 
Anti-Graft  and  Corrupt  Practices  Act,  204 
Apportionment  Ordinance  (1987),  208 
Aquino,  Benigno,  51;  arrested,  52;  assas- 
sinated, xxviii,  3,  57-58,  124,  206,  214, 
247;  background  of,  56,  214;  jail  term 
of,  45-47;  medical  treatment  of,  xxvii, 
57;  political  activities  of,  221;  released 
from  jail,  xxvii,  56 
Aquino,  Corazon  Cojuangco,  xxiii,  3,  56, 
61;  American  opinion  of,  233;  assump- 
tion of  presidency  by,  xxiv,  xxviii,  4, 
243;  background  of,  214;  coalition  of, 
225;  election  campaign  of,  61,  124;  eth- 
nicity of,  87;  political  affiliation  of, 
221-22;  religious  faith  of,  226;  state 
visits  of,  236,  237,  238 
Aquino  administration,   124-28,  215; 
achievements  of,  191;  agriculture  un- 
der, 138;  armed  forces  under,  216-17; 
borrowing  under,  130,  134;  budget 
deficit  under,  130;  cabinet  of,  125,  215; 
as  coalition,  215-16;  communist  col- 
laboration with,  227,  283;  and  Con- 
gress, 127-28;  construction  under,  127; 
coup  attempts  against,  xxix,  126,  134, 
192,  216,  217,  218,  230,  233,  244, 
250-52,  257;  criticism  of,  192,  216, 
283;  debt  under,  125,  129,  183-84;  eco- 
nomic growth  under,  119,  126;  eco- 
nomic plan  of,  127;  foreign  aid  under, 
184;  foreign  policy  under,  125,  129, 
236;  goals  of,  xxiv,  xxx;  human  rights 
under,  253-54;  insurgency  under,  254; 
investment  under,  126,  127;  labor  un- 
der, 168,  170;  land  reform  under, 
125-26,  129,  148-49,  217;  local  gov- 
ernment under,  207;  military  under, 
216-17,    244;    reforestation  under, 


365 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


152-53;  rural  areas  under,  138;  tax  re- 
form under,  131;  trade  policy  under, 
176-77 

armed  forces  {see  also  military):  and 
Corazon  Aquino,  216-17;  assassination 
of  Benigno  Aquino  by,  3;  attempts  to 
reform,  60;  auxiliaries,  271-72; 
benefits,  273;  commands,  262-63;  eth- 
nic groups  in,  257;  factions  in,  227-28; 
improvements  in,  47;  inequity  in,  258; 
insignia,  272;  justice  system,  205;  lan- 
guages in,  257;  mandatory  service  in, 
256;  under  Marcos,  xxvii,  246-47; 
materiel  shortages  in,  260;  mutinies  by, 
247-48,  250;  organization  of,  261-72; 
origins  of,  245;  overseas  deployment  of, 
261;  patron-client  ties  in,  258;  personal 
loyalties  in,  258;  personnel,  256-58; 
Philippine  Constabulary  as  part  of,  47; 
political  role  of,  249-52;  politicization 
of,  192,  246;  ranks,  272;  recruitment, 
256-58;  reserves,  271-72;  salaries, 
272-73;  strength  of,  256;  structure  of, 
260-77;  as  threat  to  communist  insur- 
gency, 244-45;  training  of,  261-72; 
uniforms,  272 

Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines  (AFP) 
{see  also  armed  forces;  military):  an- 
tigovernment  forces  in,  257-58;  bud- 
get, 247;  civic-  action  operations,  247, 
252;  counterinsurgency  efforts  of,  279; 
criminal  justice  activities  of,  247;  plans 
to  modernize,  260;  reorganization  of, 
260-61;  role  of,  in  economy,  247;  role 
of,  in  politics,  54-55,  244 

Arm-in- Arm.  See  Kabisig 

army,  265-66;  artillery  battalions,  266; 
construction  battalion,  266;  established, 
246;  light  armored  brigade,  266;  light 
infantry  divisions,  265;  materiel,  266; 
organization  of,  265;  strength  of,  256, 
265;  support  units,  266;  training,  266 

Arroyo,  Joker,  217 

ASEAN.  See  Association  of  Southeast  Asi- 
an Nations 

Asian  Development  Bank,  232;  aid  from, 
184;  loans  from,  179,  182 

Asset  Privatization  Trust,  136,  155-56 

Association  for  an  Offensive  for  Our  Fu- 
ture Freedom.  See  Tangulang 

Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN),  50,  232,  235,  260,  277 

Association  of  the  Worthy  Kabola,  37 


Ateneo  de  Manila  University,  94 
attorneys,  204 

Augustinians  {see  also  friars),  6,  99;  pow- 
er of,  12 

Australia:  exports  to,  11;  materiel  from, 

269;  military  training  in,  277 
Austria-Tiamzon,  Wilma,  284 
Autonomous  Region  in  Muslim  Minda- 
nao, xxix,  84,  211,  231,  293;  capital  of, 
211 

Aviation  Security  Command,  268 


Bagong  Alyansang  Makabayan  (BAY AN). 

See  New  Nationalist  Alliance 
balance  of  payments:  problems,  121,  154; 

targets,  180 
balance  of  trade,  175 
Balikatan,  273 
Balweg,  Father  Conrado,  59 
bananas:  as  foreign  exchange  earners, 

120,  136;  production  of,  179 
Bangsa  Moro  Army,  291 
Bangsa  Moro  Liberation  Organization, 

292 

banking  system:  crisis  in,  160;  failures  in, 
160-61;  regulation  of,  160 

banks,  commercial,  158;  activities  of,  133, 
160;  concentration  in,  161;  earnings  of, 
161;  interest  rates  offered  by,  134;  loans 
by,  160,  181,  182;  as  oligopolies,  161 

banks:  government,  158;  offshore,  158, 
160;  thrift  and  rural,  158 

banks,  international,  158;  loans  from, 
123,  179 

Bantay  Bayan  (Nation  Watch),  229,  272 

barangays:  communist  insurgency  in,  93; 
structure  of,  91,  207 

Barclays  Bank  of  Britain,  181 

Barracudas,  83 

Basco  y  Vargas,  Jose,  9 

Base  Conversion  Development  Authori- 
ty, xxxii 

Basic  Christian  Communities,  287 
Bataan  Nuclear  Power  Plant,  xxxi,  158, 
181 

Bataan  Peninsula,  237 

Bates,  John  C,  27 

Battle  of  Mendiola,  51 

BAYAN.  See  New  Nationalist  Alliance 

Belgium:  military  training  in,  277 

Bell  Act.  See  Philippine  Trade  Act 


366 


Index 


Beltran,  Crispin,  170 

Benedicto,  Roberto,  54,  146 

B.F.  Goodrich,  178 

Bicolano  language,  77 

Bicolano  people,  80 

Blackshirts,  83 

Blumentritt,  Ferdinand,  18 

Board  of  Investments  (BOI),  129,  154 

BOI.  See  Board  of  Investments 

Bonifacio,  Andres,  20,  21;  executed,  21 

borrowing:  under  Aquino,  130,  134;  by 
Development  Bank  of  the  Philippines, 
133;  for  economic  development,  179; 
under  Marcos,  130,  133 

Brady  Plan,  182 

Brezhnev,  Leonid,  238 

Britain:  materiel  from,  269;  military 
training  in,  277;  in  Spanish-American 
War,  23;  trade  with,  10,  11 

British  East  India  Company,  8 

British  occupation,  8;  Chinese  support 
for,  9 

Brocka,  Lino,  196 

budget  deficit,  xxxi,  126;  under  Aquino, 

130;  under  Marcos,  130 
bureaucracy.  See  civil  service 
Bureau  for  Non-Christian  Tribes,  83 
Bureau  of  Customs,  201 
Bureau  of  Internal  Revenue,  201 
Bureau  of  Land  Transportation,  162 
Bureau  of  Prisons,  299-300 
Burgos,  Jose,  16,  17 
Buscayno,  Bernabe,  282 


cabinet,  201 

CAFGUs.  See  Citizens  Armed  Forces 

Geographic  Units 
Cagayan  de  Oro  port,  162 
Camp  Aguinaldo,  262 
Campus  Crusade  for  Christ,  104 
Capital  Command,  270,  296 
capital  flows,  59 

Catholic  Church.  See  Roman  Catholic 
Church 

Cagayan  River,  69 

Carter,  Jimmy,  56,  186 

Castle  and  Cooke,  178 

Catholic  Bishops  Conference  of  the  Philip- 
pines, 226 

Cebuano  language,  77 

Cebuano  people,  80 


Cebu  port,  10,  162 

censorship:  abolished,  16 

Central  Bank  of  the  Philippines,  125,  158, 
166,  182;  established,  132;  loans  from, 
124,  133;  reserve  requirements  of,  134; 
role  of,  132-33,  160 

Central  Luzon:  literacy  rate  in,  109 

Central  Philippine  University,  104 

Chamber  of  Commerce  and  Industry,  201 

Cheney,  Richard,  233 

China,  People's  Republic  of:  aid  by,  to 
New  People's  Army,  237;  Aquino's 
visit  to,  238;  relations  with,  232, 
237-38;  support  by,  for  Communist 
Party  of  the  Philippines,  290 

Chinese,  11-12,  86-87;  expulsion  orders 
against,  11;  as  Filipinos,  76;  geographi- 
cal distribution  of,  11;  immigration  of, 
11,  86;  intermarriage  by,  86-87;  as  per- 
centage of  population,  86;  population, 
35;  respect  for,  8,  11;  under  Spanish 
rule,  8;  support  by,  for  British,  9;  sus- 
picion of,  8,  11;  wealth  of,  12 

Chinese  mestizos,  xxv,  11-12,  86-87;  ex- 
pulsion edicts  against,  12;  geographi- 
cal distribution  of,  12;  as  moneylenders, 
13;  as  percent  of  population,  11-12; 
schools  of,  87;  wealth  of,  12 

Chop-Chop.  See  Tadtad 

Christianity  (see  also  under  individual  sects): 
conversion  to,  5-6 

Christian-Moro  conflict,  xxvi,  50,  136, 
291 

Christians  for  National  Liberation,  226 

Christians:  as  threat  to  Moros,  34;  as  per- 
centage of  population,  80 

Christians  for  National  Liberation,  287 

church-state  relations,  59,  100,  107-8, 
226-27;  under  Spanish  rule,  6 

church-state  separation,  197 

CIDF.  See  Coconut  Industry  Develop- 
ment Fund 

cities,  207 

Citizen  Military  Training,  257,  263 
Citizens  Armed  Forces  Geographic  Units 

(CAFGUs)  {see  also  Civilian  Home 

Defense  Force),  255,  271 
Civilian  Home  Defense  Force  {see  also 

Citizens  Armed  Forces  Geographic 

Units),  255,  271;  corruption  in,  252; 

disbanded,  261 
civil-military  relations,  227-29 
civil  service:  corruption  in,  201;  in 


367 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


economic  plans,  129;  Filipinization  of, 
32,  33;  organized,  28;  size  of,  201 

Civil  Service  Commission,  201 

civil  war,  21-22 

Clark  Air  Base,  xxiii,  xxix,  44,  48,  185, 
234,  276 

climate,  69-70,  136;  drought,  70;  mon- 
soons, 69;  rainfall,  69;  temperature,  69; 
typhoons,  69,  70 

Clomas,  Tomas,  236 

Cluster  for  Political  and  Security  Affairs 
(Cluster  E),  262 

coast  guard,  267-68 

Coates,  Austin,  16 

Cocofed.  See  Coconut  Producers  Fed- 
eration 

coconut:  farms,  147;  industry,  140-43; 

mills,  140;  products,  140 
Coconut  Industry  Development  Fund 

(CIDF),  140 
Coconut  Producers  Federation  (Cocofed), 

140-42 

coconuts,  120;  area  planted  in,  136;  ex- 
ports of,  140;  prices  for,  143 
cofradia.  See  Cofradia  de  San  Jose 
Cofradia  de  San  Jose,  36;  banned,  14; 
characteristics  of,  14;  revolt  (1839-41), 
14;  started  14 
COIN.  See  counterinsurgency  campaign 
Cojuangco,  Eduardo,  xxx,  xxxi,  54,  143, 
220 

Cojuangco,  Jose,  221,  231 

collaboration  with  Japanese:  amnesty  for, 
42-43;  punishment  of,  41-42 

color urns,  15,  36;  revolts  by,  37 

COMELEC.  See  Commission  on  Elec- 
tions 

Cominform,  46 

Command  and  General  Staff  College,  263 
Commander  Dante.  See  Buscayno,  Ber- 
nabe 

Commission  for  National  Integration,  83 

Commission  on  Appointments,  199,  222 

Commission  on  Audit,  197 

Commission  on  Elections  (COMELEC), 
61,  197;  citizens'  arm  of,  223;  duties 
of,  222-23;  members  of,  222 

Commission  on  Good  Government,  197, 
230 

Commission  on  Human  Rights,  197,  217, 
227,  253;  established,  231;  powers  of, 
231-32 

Commonwealth  Constitution  (1935).  See 


constitution  of  1935 
Commonwealth  of  the  Philippines,  194; 

established,  4,  33 
communication    systems:    as  unifying 

force,  77,  94 
communist  insurgency,  55,  193,  243,  278, 

279,  280-90;  development  of,  281-82; 

donations  to,  244;  influence  of,  283;  in 

rural  areas,  92;  setbacks  for,  243-44, 

282;   support  for,   283;   threats  to, 

244-45 

Communist  Party  of  the  Philippines 
(PKP),  38,  231,  238,  243,  280-81; 
schism  in,  280;  support  of,  for  Huk  re- 
bellion, 46 

Communist  Party  of  the  Philippines- 
Marxist-Leninist  (CPP),  xxvi,  50,  279, 
280-81;  Central  Committee  of,  283-84; 
Chinese  support  for,  290;  drug  traffick- 
ing by,  290;  Executive  Committee  of, 
824;  Finance  Commission,  284;  financ- 
ing, 289-90;  foreign  support,  289-90; 
front  groups,  285-87;  ideology  of,  281; 
leadership  of,  283-85;  Manila-Rizal 
Commission,  285;  Maoist  program  of, 
280-81;  Middle  Forces  Department, 
284;  Military  Commission,  284;  Na- 
tional Democratic  Front,  285-87;  Na- 
tional Organization  Commission, 
284-85;  National  United  Front  Com- 
mission, 284,  285;  National  Urban 
Center  Commission,  285;  number 
of  personnel,  281;  opposition  of,  to 
constitution,  198;  organization  of, 
281,  283-85;  outlawed,  280;  Politi- 
cal Bureau  of,  284;  political  organizing 
groups,  284-87;  purges  in,  283;  revo- 
lutionary taxes,  289-90;  strategies  of, 
281 

communists:  coercion  by,  223-24;  role  of, 
in  anti-Marcos  demonstrations,  59-60; 
support  for,  282;  treaty  of,  with  Aqui- 
no, 227 

compadrazgo,  88 

Comprehensive  Agrarian  Reform  Law 
(1988),  149-51,  231 

Comprehensive  Agrarian  Reform  Pro- 
gram (1987),  149-51,  231;  cost  of,  150; 
criticisms  of,  149-50;  implementation 
of,  150;  outcomes  of,  150-51;  provi- 
sions of,  149 

Concepcion,  Jose,  59,  223 

Congo,  Republic  of,  261 


368 


Index 


Congress  (see  also  House  of  Represen- 
tatives; Senate):  and  Aquino  adminis- 
tration, 127-28;  closed  by  Marcos, 
xxvii  52;  corruption  in,  212;  under 
Marcos,  194;  members  of,  202;  pow- 
ers of,  202 

Congresswatch,  203 

conscription,  256 

Constabulary  Security  Group,  279 
Constitutional  Commission:  committees 

in,  196;  delegates  to,  193-96 
constitutional  convention  (1971),  51,  194 
constitutional  framework,  193-98 
Constitutional  Program  for  the  Philippine 

Republic  (Mabini),  24 
constitution  of  1898-99,  24-25,  193-94 
constitution  of  1935,  xxvi,  39,  177,  194 
constitution  of  1973,  194,  195,  295 
constitution  of  1987,   xxiv;  abortion 
banned  by,  226;  Church  influence  on, 
197,  226;  divorce  in,  98;  economic  res- 
trictions in,  177;  equal  rights  for  wom- 
en in,  98;  foreign  relations  under,  232; 
freedom  of  expression  under,  229,  279; 
government  under,  191,  197;  human 
rights  under,  231;  independent  com- 
missions in,  197;  intelligence  under, 
278;  military  bases  under,  197,  276; 
military  under,  250;  progressive  pro- 
visions in,  197;  ratification  of,  198; 
rights  in,  197;  voting  under,  222-23 
construction,  127 
Consultative  Group,  185 
contraception:  government  attempts  to 
provide,  173,  227;  opposition  to,  173, 
227 

contract  workers:  characteristics  of, 
167-68;  number  of,  119,  168;  remit- 
tances from,  74,  132,  239 

Cordillera  Autonomous  Region,  211-12 

Cordillera  Central,  69;  cultural  groups 
living  in,  85 

Cordillera  People's  Liberation  Army,  211 

Correctional  Institution  for  Women,  300 

correctional  system,  299-300 

Corregidor  Incident,  50 

corruption,  xxiv,  131,  173,  294-95;  in 
armed  forces,  260;  attempts  to  elimi- 
nate, 213;  in  civil  service,  201;  in  Con- 
gress, 212;  under  Marcos,  53,  122;  in 
National  Food  Authority,  138;  in 
police,  297 

counterinsurgency  campaign  (COIN), 


252-56;  criticism  of,  256;  under  Mar- 
cos, 252;  revised,  254-56;  special  oper- 
ations, 255 

coup  attempts,  192,  216,  230;  Aquino's 
reaction  to,  217;  investigation  of, 
251-52;  in  1987,  xxix,  244,  250-51;  in 
1989,  xxix,  126,  134,  244,  251,  257; 
reaction  to,  192,  233;  results  of,  218 

courts:  local,  204;  military,  205;  Muslim, 
204;  national,  204;  overbooked,  205; 
regional,  204;  special,  204 

CPP.  See  Communist  Party  of  the 
Philippines-Marxist-Leninist 

credit,  122 

creditors:  commercial  banks,  181;  Inter- 
national Monetary  Fund,  181;  Paris 
Club,  181 

crime,  279,  293-95;  causes  of,  293;  clas- 
sification of,  298;  rate,  279-80,  293-94 

criminal  procedure,  298-99;  criminal  ac- 
tion, 299;  rights  of  accused,  298-99;  tri- 
al procedure,  299 

cronies,  xxvii,  53 

crony  capitalism,  53-56,  122;  mis- 
management under,  124;  as  tradition- 
al pattern,  127-28 

Cubi  Point  Naval  Air  Station,  xxxii 

currency:  devaluation  of,  121,  122,  160, 
175;  exchange  rate  of,  44;  tied  to  the 
dollar,  43 

current  account  balance,  175,  180 

Custodio,  Luther,  57 


Dansalan  Junior  College,  104 

datu,  85;  power  of,  82;  role  of,  83,  106 

Davao  port,  162 

Davide  Commission,  252,  258 

de  Anda,  Simon,  8,  9 

Death  March,  40 

death  penalty,  298 

debt,  external,  179-84;  amount  of,  213; 
under  Aquino,  125,  129,  183;  creditors, 
123-24;  in  economic  plans,  129;  for- 
giveness for,  183;  under  martial  law, 
123-24;  in  1970,  119;  in  1983,  119;  in 
1986,  180-81;  in  1990,  184;  reduction 
of,  182,  183;  renunciation  of,  213; 
rescheduling  of,  181,  182,  183-84;  re- 
structuring of,  182 

debt  burden,  179 

debt-equity  conversion  program,  183; 
criticism  of,  183 


369 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


debt  service,  179;  moratorium,  125;  pay- 
ments, 126,  184;  projected,  184;  ratio 
of,  to  exports,  184;  ratio  of,  to  gross  na- 
tional product,  184 

defense,  external,  248-49 

defense  spending,  258-60;  in  1980s,  258; 
as  percentage  of  budget,  130-31;  as 
percentage  of  gross  national  product, 
258;  as  proportion  of  government 
spending,  259 

de  Izquierdo,  Rafael,  17 

de  la  Cruz,  Apolinario,  14 

De  La  Salle  University,  94 

de  la  Torre,  Carlos  Maria,  16 

Del  Monte  Corporation,  178 

del  Pilar,  Marcelo,  18-19,  20 

democracy,  xxvi,  212-13;  under  Aquino, 
xxiv,  xxx;  under  Marcos,  213;  origins 
of,  212 

Democratic  Alliance,  45 

de  Morga,  Antonio,  19 

Deng  Xiaoping,  238 

Department  of  Agrarian  Reform,  151 

Department  of  Education,  Culture,  and 
Sports,  111 

Department  of  Interior  and  Local 
Government,  261,  297 

Department  of  Justice,  278,  297 

Department  of  National  Defense,  229;  in- 
telligence gathering  by,  278;  roles  of, 
262 

Department  of  Social  Welfare  and  De- 
velopment, 70 

Department  of  Tourism,  166 

de  Tavera,  Trinidad  H.  Pardo,  29;  in- 
fluence of,  29 

development,  economic,  291;  assistance, 
184-85;  borrowing  for,  179;  role  of  for- 
eign investment  in,  177;  under  Taft 
Commission,  34 

development,  industrial,  138;  under  Mar- 
cos, 154;  under  Spanish  rule,  9 

Development  Bank  of  the  Philippines, 
159;  bad  loans  made  by,  135;  borrow- 
ing by,  133;  difficulties  in,  160;  re- 
habilitation of,  161 

development  planning,  128-30 

development  plans  (see  also  Medium-Term 
Development  Plan):  for  1974-77,  128; 
for  1978-82,  128;  for  1983-88,  128;  for 
1987-92,  128 

de  Venecia,  Jose,  xxxi 

Dewey,  George,  22;  agreement  of,  with 


Jaudenes,  23-24;  as  member  of  First 

Philippine  Commission,  27 
distribution  of  wealth,  xxiv,  36,  172-73 
Division  of  Investigation,  278 
divorce,  98 
Dole  Philippines,  179 
Dominicans  (see  also  friars),  6,  99;  power 

of,  12 
drought,  70,  126,  139 
drug  abuse,  113,  294 
drug  trafficking,  280,  294;  by  Communist 

Party  of  the  Philippines,  290 


earthquakes,  xxiii,  69,  70,  126,  155 
Economic  and  Social  Commission  for 

Asia  and  the  Pacific,  232 
economic  crisis  of  1983,  134 
Economic  Development  Corps,  48 
economic  growth,  96;  under  Aquino,  119, 

126 

economic  plan:  of  Aquino  administration, 
127 

Economic  Society  of  Friends  of  the  Coun- 
try: established,  9;  problems  in,  9;  role 
of,  9 

economic  welfare,  171-73 

economy,  xxxi;  dependence  of,  on  Unit- 
ed States,  43;  informal  sector  of,  91 ;  un- 
der Marcos,  xxvii,  3,  213;  problems  in, 
xxiii,  119,  294;  reaction  of,  to  coup  at- 
tempts, 218 

ecosystem:  damage  to,  68 

Eder,  James,  86 

EDS  A  Revolution,  58,  212;  role  of 
churches  in,  107 

education,  xxiii,  xxvi,  108-112;  enroll- 
ment, 108,  109;  government  spending 
on,  130;  higher,  108;  historical  back- 
ground of,  109;  languages  used  in,  111, 
112;  in  the  modern  period,  109-112; 
monopoly  on,  by  friars,  13;  percentage 
of  budget  spent  on,  109;  policies,  112; 
primary,  13-14;  by  Protestant  mis- 
sionaries, 104;  quality  of,  108,  109; 
regard  for,  108;  religious,  107,  226- 
27;  under  Spanish  rule,  13-14;  sys- 
tem, 111;  tuition  for,  109;  as  unifying 
force,  94;  vocational,  110;  of  women, 
96 

elections,  xxvi,  32-33,  202,  222-24;  coer- 
cion used  in,  225-26;  under  constitution 


370 


Index 


of  1987,  222-23;  killings  related  to, 
xxx,  223,  224;  of  1907,  28;  of  1916,  33; 
of  1935,  39;  of  1949,  46;  of  1961,  48; 
of  1981,  xxvii;  of  1986,  60-61;  of  1987, 
202;  of  1988,  224;  of  1992,  xxx;  per- 
sonal alliance  systems  in,  224;  problems 
in,  222;  snap,  xxviii,  60-61,  215,  222; 
suspended,  225;  system  of,  222 

electoral  tribunals,  223 

El  Filibusterismo  (The  Reign  of  Greed),  18 

elite,  business,  59,  173 

elite  class,  4,  45;  Chinese  members  of,  12; 
collaboration  by,  with  Japanese,  42; 
composition  of,  90-91;  lifestyles  of, 
90-91;  role  of,  in  political  system,  53 

elite  families:  in  early  twentieth  century, 
67;  under  Marcos,  67;  as  newspaper 
owners,  230 

elite,  political,  xxv,  191;  landowners  as, 
121 

employment  (see  also  work  force),  166-68; 

in  agriculture,  166;  of  squatters,  95 
energy  programs:  under  martial  law,  53 
energy  resources:  coal,  157;  geothermal, 

157;  hydroelectric,  157;  nuclear,  158; 

oil,  157;  solar,  157 
English  language:  broadcasts  in,  165; 

competence  in,  80;  in  education,  80, 

111,  112;  government  emphasis  on, 

75-76;  as  lingua  franca,  77,  81;  role  of, 

77-80 

Enrile,  Juan  Ponce,  xxvii,  51,  60,  62, 
143,  198,  206;  under  Aquino,  249;  dis- 
missed, 250;  as  leader  of  military  rebel- 
lion, xxviii,  244,  247;  opposition  of,  to 
Aquino,  202-3,  216;  opposition  of,  to 
Marcos,  220;  reform  of  armed  forces 
by,  250 

Entrencherado,  Florencio,  37 

entrepot  trade,  8 

Estanislao,  Jesus,  127,  177,  186-87 

Estrada,  Joseph,  219 

ethnic  groups  (see  also  under  individual 
groups),  68;  cleavages  among,  76-77;  in 
early  history,  4;  geographical  distribu- 
tion of,  79-80,  83,  84,  85;  in  military, 
257 

exchange  rate:  overvaluation  of,  175;  tied 

to  dollar,  121,  174 
exclusive  economic  zone,  153 
Executive  Order  413  (1990),  177 
export:  growth,  xxxi;  taxes,  138;  process- 
ing zones,  176 


Export  Incentives  Act  (1970),  129 
exports:  agricultural,  9,  10,  120,  139,  140, 
143-44;  to  Australia,  11;  of  fish,  176; 
to  Hong  Kong,  151;  to  Japan,  152, 
174,  179;  livestock,  151;  log,  152;  un- 
der martial  law,  123;  mineral,  120; 
nontraditional,  176;  as  percentage  of 
gross  national  product,  174;  ratio  of,  to 
debt  service,  184;  seafood,  176;  sugar, 
11,  144;  tourism  as,  166;  to  United 
States,  34-35,  144-46,  173-74;  value 
added  to,  176;  volume  of,  10 


family  planning.  See  population  growth 
famine,  172 

farmers,  94;  living  in  poverty,  171 
farming:  of  corn,  8;  of  rice,  8;  subsistence, 
93 

farms:  number  of,  36;  size  of,  147 
Federalista  Party,  29 
Federation  of  Free  Workers,  170 
Feleo,  Juan,  45 
Fernandez,  Jose,  134 
Ferrer,  Jaime,  229 
fiesta,  101 
Filipino  Party,  220 

Filipinos:  assimilation  among,  76;  reac- 
tion of,  to  Treaty  of  Paris,  25 

financial  scandal  of  1981,  124,  134 

financial  system,  158 

fiscal  policy,  130-32;  under  Marcos,  130 

fish:  as  diet  staple,  120;  export  of,  176 

fishing,  153-54;  aquaculture,  153;  com- 
mercial, 153;  environmental  damage 
from,  154;  municipal,  153;  production, 
153;  subsistence,  153;  workers  living  in 
poverty,  171;  work  force  in,  136 

flora,  69 

foreign  affairs,  232-39 

foreign  aid:  increase  in,  under  Aquino, 
184;  from  Japan,  184;  from  United 
States,  121,  184 

foreign  exchange:  from  agriculture,  120; 
from  contract  worker  remittances,  74, 
168;  controls,  121,  154,  174;  reaction 
of,  to  coup  attempts,  218 

foreign  military  relations,  273-77 

foreign  ownership,  177-78 

foreign  policy,  232-39;  under  Aquino, 
125,  129;  in  economic  plans,  129;  un- 
der Macapagal,  49 


371 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


foreign  relations,  193 

forest  reserves,  120;  deforestation,  152, 

153;  reforestation,  152-53 
forestry,  151-53;  land  area  devoted  to, 

151;  workers  living  in  poverty,  171; 

work  force  in,  136 
France:  in  Spanish- American  War,  23 
Franciscans  (see  also  friars),  6,  99;  power 

of,  12 

Fray  Botod  (Brother  Fatso),  18 
Freedom  Constitution.  See  constitution  of 
1987 

Freedom  from  Debt  Coalition,  180, 
213-14 

frialocracia.  See  friarocracy 

friarocracy,  xxiv-xxv,  12-15;  power  of, 
12;  racism  by,  14;  role  of,  12-13 

friars  (see  also  under  individual  orders),  xxiv- 
xxv,  6,  16,  99;  extravagant  lifestyles  of, 
13;  as  landholders,  13,  29;  monopoly 
of,  on  education,  13;  under  United 
States  rule,  29 


Galman,  Rolando,  57 
gangs,  293 

Garcia,  Carlos  P.,  48,  246 

GATT.  See  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs 
and  Trade 

General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade 
(GATT),  55,  232 

General  Banking  Act  (1948),  159,  177 

General  Headquarters,  262 

Germany:  military  training  in,  277;  in 
Spanish-American  War,  23 

GNP.  See  gross  national  product 

Gomez,  Mariano,  17 

Gonzales,  Neptali,  xxxi,  195,  221 

Goodyear  Tire  Corporation,  178 

Gorbachev,  Mikhail,  238 

government,  local,  206-12;  under  Aqui- 
no, 207;  autonomy  of,  208-12;  under 
Marcos,  206-7;  organization  of,  207-8; 
powers  of,  206;  reorganization  of,  207; 
revenue  sources  for,  208 

government,  national,  198-206;  executive 
department,  199-201;  factions  in,  216; 
judicial  department,  203-6;  legislative 
department,  201-3;  negotiations  of, 
with  Moro  insurgents,  291,  292;  sepa- 
ration of  powers  in,  198 


government  budget:  defense  as  percent- 
age of,  130-31;  education  as  percentage 
of,  107-8 

government  spending:  apportionment  of, 
130-31;  defense  spending  as  proportion 
of,  259;  on  education,  130;  on  land  re- 
form, 150;  as  percentage  of  gross  na- 
tional product,  130 

government  structure,  193 

governors,  207 

Grand  Alliance  for  Democracy,  219 
gross  national  product  (GNP),  xxvii; 
agriculture  as  percentage  of,  119;  bud- 
get deficit  as  percentage  of,  131 ;  defense 
spending  as  percentage  of,  258;  domes- 
tic savings  as  percentage  of,  132;  ex- 
ports as  percentage  of,  174;  government 
spending  as  percentage  of,  130;  growth 
rate  of,  xxiii,  119,  121,  122,  123,  124, 
126,  129;  imports  as  percentage  of,  174; 
industry  as  percentage  of,  119;  land  re- 
form as  percentage  of,  150;  manufac- 
turing as  percentage  of,  1 19-20;  mining 
as  percentage  of,  155;  per  capita,  119, 
171;  produced  in  Metro  Manila,  94;  ra- 
tio of  debt  service  to,  184;  ratio  of 
money  supply  to,  133;  rice  as  percent- 
age of,  139;  service  sector  as  percent- 
age of,  120;  tax  revenue  as  percentage 
of,  130 

Guerrero,  Amado.  See  Sison,  Jose  Maria 
Guerrero  of  Jesus,  228 


Hacienda  Luisita,  150 
Hare-Hawes-Cutting  Independence  Bill, 
38-39 

Harrison,  Francis  Burton,  32 

health  care,  xxiv,  xxvi;  facilities,  condi- 
tions in,  112-13;  immunizations,  113; 
modern,  114;  by  Protestant  mission- 
aries, 104;  psychic  surgery,  114-15; 
traditional,  114 

health  problems,  114,  115 

Hiligaynon  language,  77 

Hirohito  (emperor),  237 

Home  Defense  Program,  252 

Honasan,  Gregorio,  218,  227,  249;  coup 
attempt  led  by,  250-52 

Hong  Kong:  exports  to,  151;  investment 
by,  178;  migration  to,  74 

Hoover,  Herbert,  38 


372 


Index 


House  of  Representatives,  201;  members 

of,  202 
Hukbalahap.  See  Huks 
Hukbong  Mapagpalaya  ng  Bayan.  See 

Huks 

Huk  rebellion,  45-47,  246,  280;  com- 
munist support  for,  46;  decline  of,  47, 
48 

Huks  (see  also  Huk  rebellion),  41 ;  MacAr- 
thur's  reaction  to,  45;  outlawed,  46; 
resistance  by,  to  Japanese,  41;  Roxas's 
policy  toward,  46 

human  rights,  xxiv,  56;  groups,  229 

hydroelectric  power,  69 

Ickes,  Harold,  41 

Iglesia  Filipina  Independiente  (Indepen- 
dent Philippine  Church),  37,  102;  ori- 
gins of,  100,  102;  schism  in,  102 

Iglesia  ni  Kristo  (Church  of  Christ), 
102-3;  authoritarianism  of,  103;  origins 
of,  102-3 

Ilagas  (Rats),  83 

Ileto,  Rafael,  216 

Ilocano  language,  77 

Ilocano  people,  80;  in  armed  forces,  257; 
migration  of,  80 

Iloilo  port,  10,  11,  162 

Ilongo  people,  80 

ilustrados,  xxv,  12,  29 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 

imports,  xxxi;  composition  of,  175;  con- 
trols on,  121,  154,  174,  176-77;  from 
Japan,  162;  of  materiel,  260,  266,  269; 
of  oil,  120,  239;  as  percentage  of  gross 
national  product,  174;  quotas,  34;  of 
rice,  126,  139-40;  volume  of,  10;  from 
United  States,  121 

independence:  achievement  of,  4;  call  for, 
30;  declared  (1898),  24;  under  Jones 
Act,  32;  Moro  view  of,  33;  negotiations 
with  United  States  for,  23;  transition 
to,  41 

industry,  154-58;  capacity  of,  126,  154; 
energy,  157-58;  growth  in,  127;  oligop- 
oly in,  155;  manufacturing,  154-55; 
mining,  155-57;  as  percentage  of  gross 
national  product,  119;  policies  of, 
175-76;  work  force  in,  119 
inflation,  xxiii,  xxvii,  xxxi,  3,  59 
informal  sector:  characteristics  of,  167; 
workers  living  in  poverty,  171;  work 


force  in,  166-67 

infrastructure:  damage  to,  xxiii,  declin- 
ing, 127;  in  economic  plans,  129;  im- 
provements in,  47-48,  50,  96 

Inquirer,  230 

Integrated  Bar  of  the  Philippines,  204 
Integrated  National  Police,  261,  270-71, 
280,  295-96;  criticism  of,  297;  mission 
of,  296;  organization  of,  296;  person- 
nel of,  296;  training,  296-97 
intelligence:  activities,  277;  agencies, 
277-79 

Intelligence  and  Security  Group,  279 

Intelligence  Service,  278-79 

interest  rates,  180;  attempts  to  lower, 
183-84;  deregulation  of,  133,  160;  var- 
iation in,  134 

Intermediate  Appellate  Court,  204 

intermediation  margins,  133-34 

international  economic  relations,  173-87 

International  Military  Education  and 
Training  Program,  259 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF),  59, 
232;  conditions  imposed  by,  xxxi,  180, 
182;  contravention  of  agreement  with, 
180;  emergency  loans  from,  179;  loans 
from,  181;  loan  disbursements  frozen 
by,  131-32;  standby  credit  arrange- 
ment with,  122,  127,  130,  132, 176-77, 
180,  181,  182 

International  Rice  Research  Institute,  139 

Intramuros,  166 

investment:  under  Aquino,  xxiii,  126, 
127;  incentive  system,  130;  under  Mar- 
cos, 59,  122-23;  projects,  154-55 

investment,  foreign,  122-23,  130, 
177-79;  by  agribusiness,  178;  by  Hong 
Kong,  178;  inflows,  178;  by  Japan, 
178;  by  the  Netherlands,  178;  by  Tai- 
wan, 178;  by  the  United  States,  178 

Investment  Code  (1983),  130 

Investment  Code  (1987),  130 

Investment  Incentives  Act  (1967),  129-30 

irrigation:  of  rice,  8,  139 

Isabella  II  (queen),  16 

Islam,  6,  76,  105-6;  indigenous  elements 
in,  106;  introduction  of,  5;  rituals  of, 
105;  young  reformers  in,  106 

Italy:  materiel  from,  269 


Jalandoni,  Luis,  290 
Jamal-ul  Kiram  II,  27 


373 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Jamiatul  Philippine  al-Islamia,  106 
Japan:  aid  from,  235,  237;  Aquino's  visits 
to,  237;  attack  by,  on  Philippines, 

39-  40;  exports  to,  152,  174,  179;  im- 
ports from,  162;  investment  by,  178, 
237;  loan  disbursements  frozen  by, 
131-32;  relations  with,  232,  237;  in 
Spanish- American  War,  23;  surrender 
to,  40;  tourists  from,  237;  trade  with, 
237 

Japanese  occupation,  40-41;  collabora- 
tion under,  40;  deaths  under,  41;  de- 
struction under,  41;  opposition  to, 

40-  41;  tenant  farmers  under,  42 
Japanese  people,  35 

Jaudenes,  Fermfn,  23;  agreement  of,  with 
Dewey,  23-24 

Jesuits,  6,  99;  education  by,  14 

Jobo  bills,  134 

John  Hay  Air  Station,  276 

Johnson,  Lyndon,  50 

Joint  United  States  Military  Advisory 
Group,  44 

Jones  Act  (1916),  32-34 

Judicial  Bar  council,  204 

Judicial  Reorganization  Act  (1981),  204 

judicial  system  {see  also  courts):  estab- 
lished, 28;  influences  on,  203 

Juventud  Escolar  Liberal.  See  Liberal 
Young  Students 

Kabisig  (Arm-in-Arm),  221 

Kabola,  Pedro,  37 

Kalayaan  Islands,  235-36,  248 

Kapisanan  Makabola  Makasinag.  See  As- 
sociation of  the  Worthy  Kabola 

Kapatiran  Tangulang  Malayang  Mama- 
mayang.  See  Tangulang 

kasama  system,  35 

kasamas,  35-36 

Katipunan,  20,  39 

Kerkvliet,  Benedict,  46 

Kilusang  Bagong  Lipunan.  See  New  So- 
ciety Movement 

Kilusang  Mayo  Uno  (KMU),  169,  170, 
287;  opposition  of,  to  constitution,  198 

Kilusang  Magbubukid  ng  Pilipinas.  See 
Peasant  Movement  of  the  Philippines 

kinship  ties,  92 

Kintanar,  Romulo,  283,  284,  288 
KMP.  See  Peasant  Movement  of  the 
Philippines 


Korean  war:  Philippine  troops  in,  45,  261 
LABAN,  57,  221 

Laban  ng  Demokratikong  Pilipino.  See 
Struggle  of  Filipino  Democrats 

labor:  actions,  170;  activists,  170;  under 
Aquino,  170;  government  approach  to, 
168;  under  Marcos,  170 

Labor  Advisory  and  Consultative  Coun- 
cil (LACC),  169-70;  membership  in, 
170 

labor  force.  See  work  force 

labor-law  reforms,  170 

labor  relations,  168-71;  under  Aquino, 
168;  under  Marcos,  168;  under  mar- 
tial law,  168 

labor  unions,  168-71;  membership  of, 
168;  number  of,  169 

LACC.  See  Labor  Advisory  and  Consul- 
tative Council 

Laguna  de  Bay,  69 

La  Independencia  (Independence),  25 

Lakas  Ng  Bayan.  See  LABAN 

Lakas  ng  Edsa-National  Union  of  Chris- 
tian Democrats  (Lakas-NUCD),  xxxi 

Lakas  Ng  Manggagawa  Labor  Center, 
170 

land:  under  cultivation,  135;  leased  or 

sold  to  Americans,  34 
Land  Bank  of  the  Philippines,  159-60 
Lande,  Carl,  30 

landowners,  256;  absentee,  xxvi,  93;  as 
oligarchs,  121 

land  ownership:  concentration  of,  147 

land  reform,  94,  147-51,  256;  under 
Aquino,  125-26,  129,  148-49,  217; 
limited  impact  of,  147,  217;  under 
Marcos,  147;  under  martial  law,  53-54, 
147-48;  outcomes  of,  148;  and  popu- 
lation, 73-74 

land  tenancy,  35-36,  147-51;  homestead- 
ing  in,  35;  increase  in,  36;  rebellions 
against,  280,  282;  sharecropping  in,  35 

language  (see  also  under  individual  languages:) 
diversity,  77;  in  military,  257;  nation- 
al, 77 

La  Solidaridad  (Solidarity),  18,  20 

Laurel,  Jose  P.,  40,  41,  42 

Laurel,  Salvador  H.,  58,  61,  215,  219; 
criticism  of  Aquino  by,  192,  216;  in 
1986  election,  xxviii,  61;  opposition  of, 
to  Marcos,  220 


374 


Index 


Laurel- Langley  Agreement,  44;  expira- 
tion of,  55 

law  enforcement,  295-98 

Laxalt,  Paul,  62 

Lee  Kwan  Yew,  236 

left-wing  groups,  59-60 

legal  system:  codes  in,  298;  influences  on, 
297;  penalties  in,  298 

Legarda,  Benito,  29;  influence  of,  29 

Legaspi  port,  10 

Liberal  Party,  xxxi,  30,  220;  organization 

of,  30-31,  42 
liberal  period,  16-17 
Liberal  Young  Students  Quventud  Esco- 

lar  Liberal),  16 
liberation  theology,  287 
Libya:  support  by,  for  Moro  insurgency, 

291 

Liga  Filipina  (Philippine  League):  dis- 
solved, 20;  established,  19 
Light  Rail  Transit  system,  165 
Li  Peng,  238 

literacy  rate,  xxiii,  108;  in  Central  Luzon, 
110;  in  Metro  Manila,  109-10;  in 
Western  Mindanao  Region,  108-9;  of 
women,  96 

Literary  University  of  the  Philippines,  25 

livestock,  151 

loans,  concessionary,  184 

Locsin,  Teodoro,  217 

logging:  exports,  152;  illegal,  152; 
licensed,  151-52 

Logistics  Command,  263 

Loney,  Nicholas,  11,  54 

Lopez,  Fernando,  53 

Lopez  family,  54 

Lopez  de  Legazpi,  Miguel,  xxiv,  5,  99 
Lopez  Jaena,  Graciano,  18,  20 
lowland  Christians,  80-81,  86-87;  enslaved 
by  Moros,  9;  social  organization  of,  88 
Lugar,  Richard,  61 
Luna,  Antonio,  25;  assassinated,  26 
Lupao  Massacre  (1987),  232 
Luzon:  land  area  of,  68 
Lynch,  Frank,  74 

Mabini,  Apolinario,  26;  background  of, 
24;  ideas  of,  24 

Macapagal,  Diosdado:  foreign  policy  un- 
der, 49;  as  president,  48,  246 

MacArthur,  Douglas,  40,  42 

McKinley,  William,  25,  27,  28 

McNutt,  Paul,  43 


Mactan  International  Airport,  162 

Magellan,  Ferdinand,  5 

Magsaysay,  Ramon:  death  of,  48;  elec- 
tion of,  223;  as  president,  47-48,  246; 
as  secretary  of  defense,  47 

Maharlika  Highway.  See  Pan-Philippine 
Highway 

Mahathir  bin  Mohamad,  237 

Makati,  93,  218;  seized  by  mutineers,  251 

Makati  Business  Club,  203 

Malays:  as  Filipinos,  76 

Malaysia:  dispute  with,  over  Sabah,  50, 
236-37,  248-49;  military  training  in, 
277;  relations  with  236-37,  248;  sup- 
port by,  for  Moro  insurgency,  291 

malnutrition,  114,  171 

Malolos  Constitution.  See  constitution  of 
1898-99 

Mamamayan,  254 

Manglapus,  Raul,  186,  238 

Manifesto  to  the  Noble  Spanish  Nation  (Bur- 
gos), 16 

Manila  {see  also  Metro  Manila):  arch- 
bishop of,  16,  59,  226;  Chinese  popu- 
lation of,  11;  as  colonial  capital,  5; 
growth,  73;  population,  73 

Manila  Bay,  69 

Manila  Bulletin,  230 

Manila  City  Jail,  300 

Manila  International  Container  Termi- 
nal, 162 

Manila  port,  162 

Manufacturers  Hanover  Trust,  181 

manufacturing,  154-55;  branches  of,  154; 
geographic  distribution  of,  155;  growth, 
154;  under  martial  law,  123;  output, 
154-55;  as  percentage  of  gross  nation- 
al product,  119-20;  work  force  in, 
119-20,  154,  166 

Mao  Zedong,  281 

MAPHILINDO,  49 

Marcos,  Ferdinand,  xxvi,  3;  background 
of,  49;  exiled,  xxviii;  and  political  par- 
ties, 219;  ruling  style  of,  214-15;  wealth 
of,  213 

Marcos,  Imelda  Romualdez,  3,  49-50, 
51;  charges  against,  206;  as  governor 
of  Metro  Manila,  53;  as  minister  of  hu- 
man settlements,  53;  as  presidential 
candidate,  xxiii,  xxx 

Marcos  administration  (1965-86):  Con- 
gress closed  by,  52,  194;  church  in- 
volvement in,  226;  cronies  under,  53; 


375 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


democracy  damaged  by,  213;  economy 
under,  3;  fiscal  policy  under,  130,  135; 
industrial  development  under,  154; 
labor  under,  168;  land  reform  under, 
147-48;  martial  law  under,  3,  122; 
military  under,  246;  New  Society  of, 
52-53;  overthrow  of,  62,  282;  political 
unrest  under,  xxvii,  51;  powers  of, 
194-95;  problems  under,  3;  profligate 
spending  by,  122,  181;  public  works 
projects  under,  50;  reforestation  under, 
152-53;  United  States  support  for,  60 
marine  corps,  268 

martial  law,  4,  52-56;  agriculture  under, 
123,  146;  declared,  xxvii,  3,  52,  122; 
economy  under,  53,  122;  elections  sus- 
pended under,  225;  ended,  56;  energy 
programs  under,  53;  exports  under, 
123;  labor  under,  168;  land  reform  un- 
der, 53-54,  147-48;  manufacturing  un- 
der, 123;  Moro  insurgency  under,  291; 
role  of  public  sector  under,  123;  Roman 
Catholic  Church  under,  58-59 

materiel:  domestically  manufactured, 
259,  266;  imported,  260,  266,  269; 
shortages  of,  260 

Masagana  99  program,  138 

Masses  Arise.  See  Alsa  Masa 

May  First  Movement.  See  Kilusang  Mayo 
Uno 

mayors,  207 

media,  xxiv,  229-30 

Medium-Term  Development  Plan, 
1987-92,  138-39;  goals  of,  128-29; 
tourism  under,  166;  transportation  un- 
der, 162 

Meliton  Martinez,  Gregorio,  16,  17 
Mendiola  Massacre  (1987),  217 
Metro  Manila:  economic  production  in, 
94;  government  of,  207-8;  literacy  rate 
in,  110;  as  "primate  city,"  94;  squat- 
ters in,  95;  tradition  in,  95 
Metropolitan  Police  Force,  270,  296 
middle  class,  91 

Middle  East:  migrants  to,  67,  74,  167-68, 
239;  relations  with,  232,  239 

migration,  70-74;  to  Hong  Kong,  74;  of 
Ilocano  people,  80;  of  Ilongo  people, 
80;  to  Middle  East,  74;  to  Moro  areas, 
50-51,  68,  73,  83,  291;  to  Singapore, 
74;  to  United  States,  74 

migration,  urban,  73,  81,  92,  279,  293; 
by  health  care  workers,  112;  to  Mid- 


dle East,  67;  to  United  States,  67 
military:  aid,  259,  260,  276;  dissidents, 

279;  rebellions,  244;  unrest,  251 
Military  Assistance  Agreement  (1947),  44 
Military  Assistance  Program,  259 
Military  Bases  Agreement  (1945),  44, 
234,  259,  273-76;  amendments  to, 
xxix,  55,  234,  276;  controversy  over, 
273-76;  reviews  of,  276-77 
military  training:  institutions,  263;  pro- 
grams to  upgrade,  265;  for  reserves, 
271;  in  the  United  States,  44 
Mindanao:  cultural  groups  on,  85;  land 
area  of,  68;  migration  to,  73,  83,  291; 
sultanates  on,  76 
Mindanao  River,  69 
Mindanao  Sea,  69 
Mindoro:  cultural  groups  on,  85 
mineral:  deposits,  120,  155;  exports,  155; 
fuels,  155 

"mini  Marshall  Plan."  See  Multilateral 

Aid  Initiative 
mining,  155-57;  as  percentage  of  gross 

national  product,  155;  problems  in,  155 
Ministry  of  Labor  and  Employment,  168, 

170 

Ministry  of  Local  Government,  206 
Ministry  of  National  Defense,  249 
missionaries,  6 
Misuari,  Nur,  239,  291 
Mitra,  Ramon,  221 

MNLF.  See  Moro  National  Liberation 
Front 

Monetary  Board:  members  of,  132 

monetary  policy,  132-35 

money  supply:  growth  of,  xxxi,  134-35; 
ratio  of,  to  gross  national  product,  133 

monopolies,  173;  coconut,  54,  143;  un- 
der Marcos,  xxvii,  122;  sugar,  54 

Moro  insurgency,  243,  279,  290-93; 
armed  forces  counterinsurgency,  245; 
casualties  in,  291;  under  martial  law, 
291 

Moro  Islamic  Liberation  Front,  292,  293 

Moro  National  Liberation  Front 
(MNLF),  xxvi,  xxix,  211,  231,  239, 
291;  organized,  51;  schism  in,  292;  sup- 
port for,  51 ;  treaty  of,  with  Aquino,  227 

Moro  National  Liberation  Front- 
Reformist  Movement,  292,  293 

Moros  (Muslims)  {see  also  Christian-Moro 
violence),  8,  27,  81-84;  in  armed  for- 
ces, 257;  autonomy  for,  208;  Christians 


376 


Index 


as  threat  to,  34;  conflict  among,  82, 
293;  geographic  distribution  of,  82; 
government  accommodation  to,  84; 
government  neglect  of,  82;  grievances 
of,  208-11;  independence  as  threat  to, 
33;  independence  movement  among, 
55,  193,  239;  negotiations  of,  with 
government,  291,  292;  as  percentage  of 
population,  81,  99;  prejudice  against, 
82;  raids  by,  9;  society  of,  82-83;  un- 
der Spanish  rule,  290;  subgroups  of,  82; 
subjugation  of,  27;  under  United  States 
rule,  28,  290 

motor  vehicles:  number  of,  162 

Mount  Apo,  69 

Mount  Banahao,  15 

Mount  Mayon,  69 

Mount  Pinatubo:  eruption  of,  xxiii,  xxix 

Mount  San  Cristobal,  15 

Multilateral  Aid  Initiative,  126,  184-85, 

235;  aid  commitments  under,  185 
multilateral  organizations:  loans  from, 

123 

municipalities,  91-92,  207 
Muslims.  See  Moros 
mutiny  of  1872,  17 

Mutual  Defense  Treaty  Between  the 
Republic  of  the  Philippines  and  the 
United  States  of  America,  45,  236,  245, 
273 


Nacionalista  Party,  30;  in  1916  elections, 
33;  reestablished,  219 

NAMFREL.  See  National  Movement  for 
Free  Elections 

Narcotics  Command,  295 

Nasutra.  See  National  Sugar  Trading  Cor- 
poration 

National  Alliance  for  Democracy,  229 
National  Assembly,  202 
National  Bureau  of  Investigation,  278, 
297 

National  Capital  Region  Command,  263 
National  Council  of  Churches  in  the 

Philippines  (NCCP),  103 
National  Defense  Act  (1935),  260 
National  Defense  College,  263-65 
National  Democratic  Front,  60,  226,  254 
National  Development  Corporation,  178 
National  Economic  and  Development  Au- 
thority (NEDA)  (see  also  National  Eco- 
nomic Council),  125;  created,  128; 


responsibilities  of,  128 

National  Economic  Council  (see  also  Na- 
tional Economic  and  Development 
Authority),  128 

National  Food  Authority,  36-38;  corrup- 
tion in,  138 

National  Housing  Authority,  73 

national  identity,  76,  193 

National  Intelligence  and  Security  Au- 
thority, 249,  277;  purged,  278 

National  Intelligence  Coordinating  Agen- 
cy, 278 

National  Livelihood  Program,  252 

National  Movement  for  Free  Elections 
(NAMFREL),  59,  203,  223;  in  1986 
elections,  61 

National  Peasant  Union  (PKM),  45 

National  Penitentiary,  300 

National  Police  Commission,  295,  296 

National  Power  Corporation,  157 

National  Progressive  Party,  30;  in  1916 
elections,  33 

National  Reconciliation  and  Development 
Program,  254 

National  Security  Council,  261-62;  mem- 
bers of,  261 

National  Security  Council  Secretariat, 
261 

National  Service  Law  (1980),  256 

National  Sugar  Trading  Corporation 
(Nasutra),  147 

nationalism,  15-17,  228,  232-33,  234 

Nationalist  Party  of  the  Philippines  (Par- 
tido  Nacionalista  ng  Pilipinas),  219 

Nationalist  People's  Party,  xxxi 

Nation  Watch,  229,  272 

navy,  266-68;  chain  of  command  in,  267; 
coast  guard,  267;  headquarters,  266; 
mission  of,  266-67;  plans  to  modernize, 
260;  ships,  267;  strength  of,  256,  266 

NCCP.  See  National  Council  of  Churches 
in  the  Philippines 

NDP.  See  net  domestic  product 

NEDA.  See  National  Economic  and  De- 
velopment Authority 

Negritos,  76 

Negros:  development  of,  11 
net  domestic  product:  growth  of,  121 
Netherlands:  investment  by,  178;  materiel 
from,  269 

New  Armed  Forces  of  the  Philippines,  250 
New  Nationalist  Alliance  (BAYAN),  60, 
287 


377 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


New  People's  Army  (NPA),  xxvi,  50,  93, 
193,  211,  238,  243,  279;  assassinations 
by,  288;  atrocities  committed  by,  227; 
Chinese  aid  to,  237;  church  activists  in, 
287;  founded,  280;  guerrilla  units  in, 
288;  living  conditions  in,  289;  opera- 
tions of,  288-89;  organization  of,  284; 
personnel  in,  xxix,  252,  282,  283; 
problems  in,  230-31;  role  of,  in  anti- 
Marcos  demonstrations,  59;  Roman 
Catholic  cooperation  with,  192;  support 
for,  283;  tactics  of,  288-89;  targets  of, 
288;  weapons  in,  289;  women  in,  289 
New  Republic,  56 
New  Rules  of  Court  (1964),  198 
New  Society,  52-53,  56,  122,  213 
New  Society  Movement  (Kilusang  Ba- 

gong  Lipunan),  219 
newspapers,  xxvii,  230 
New  Tribes  Mission,  104 
Ninoy  Aquino  International  Airport,  162 
Noli  Me  Tangere  (Touch  Me  Not),  18,  19 
Nonoc  Mining  and  Industrial  Corpora- 
tion, 155-57 
Northern  Luzon  Command,  262 
NPA.  See  New  People's  Army 
nuclear:  power,  158;  weapons,  234-35 


Office  of  Muslim  Affairs  and  Cultural 
Communities,  83-84;  reservations  for 
tribal  groups,  85-86 

Officer  Candidate  School,  257,  258,  263 

officers:  commissions  of,  257;  on  compa- 
ny boards,  249;  factions  among,  257; 
in  government  positions,  249;  mutiny 
by,  244;  noncommissioned,  257 

official  development  assistance  (ODA), 
184-85 

Offshore  Patrol,  260 

oil  {see  also  petroleum):  exploration,  157; 
import  of,  120,  239;  production,  157 

Oil  Price  Stabilization  Fund,  132 

Ongpin,  Jaime,  217 

Operation  Quick  Count,  48 

Ople,  Bias,  196,  219 

Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference, 
291,  292 

Osmena,  Sergio,  30,  32,  45;  as  president 
of  the  Commonwealth,  41;  as  speaker 
of  the  House,  33,  38 

Otis,  Ewell  S.,  26;  as  member  of  First 


Philippine  Commission,  27 
Pambansang  Kaisahan  ng  mga  Mag- 
bubukid  (PKM).  See  National  Peasant 
Union 

Pampangan  language,  77 

Pampangan  people,  81 

Pangasinan  language,  77 

Pan-Philippine  Highway,  161 

Paris  Club,  181,  182 

Partido  Komunista  ng  Pilipinas  (PKP). 
See  Communist  Party  of  the  Philippines 

Partido  Nacionalista  ng  Pilipinas.  See  Na- 
tionalist Party  of  the  Philippines 

Partido  Nacional  Progresista.  See  National 
Progressive  Party 

Partido  ng  Bayan  (Party  of  the  Nation), 
220 

Partido  Pilipino.  See  Filipino  Party 
Party  of  the  Nation.  See  Partido  ng  Bayan 
Paterno,  Pedro,  26 

patron-client  relationships,  90,  98;  erosion 
of,  xxvi,  36,  92;  in  Metro  Manila,  95; 
in  political  parties,  31;  in  rural  areas, 
92 

Payne  Aldrich  Tariff  Act  (1909),  34 
PCA.  See  Philippine  Coconut  Authority 
PDP.  See  Pilipino  Democratic  Party 
PDP— LABAN:  created,  221;  problems 
in,  221 

Peace  and  Order  Councils,  255,  295 

Peace  Corps  volunteers,  234 

Peasant  Movement  of  the  Philippines 

(KMP),  170,  287 
peasant  unrest,  xxv,  xxvi,  280,  282 
penal  law,  297-98 

People's  Anti-Japanese  Army.  See  Huks 
People's  Liberation  Army.  See  Huks 
People's  Power  movement,  xxiv,  xxviii, 
58,  212,  229,  249;  issues  addressed  by, 
171;  role  of  churches  in,  107;  support- 
ers of,  58,  62 
Persian  Gulf  crisis,  132 
personal  alliance  systems,  88-91,  92;  in 
armed  forces,  258;  Catholic  Church 
as  extension  of,  101;  compadrazgo,  89; 
in  elections,  224;  friendship,  90;  kin- 
ship, 88,  90,  98,  224;  patron-client  sys- 
tem, 90,  95;  suki,  89,  90;  utang  na  bob, 
89,  90 
peso.  See  currency 

petroleum  (see  also  oil):  exploration,  120 
Philippine  Air  Lines,  xxxi,  162 
Philippine  Amanah  Bank,  159,  160 


378 


Index 


Philippine  archipelago:  islands  of,  68; 

land  area  of,  68;  locations  of,  68 
Philippine  Assembly,  28 
Philippine  Assistance  Plan.  See  Multilater- 
al Aid  Initiative 
Philippine  Christian  College,  104 
Philippine  Civic  Action  Group,  261 
Philippine  Coconut  Authority  (PC A),  140 
Philippine  Commission,  First  (Schurman 
Commission),  27;  recommendations  of, 
27-28 

Philippine  Commission,  Second  (Taft 
Commission),  28;  economic  develop- 
ment under,  34;  Filipinos  on,  32;  pow- 
ers of,  28 

Philippine  Constabulary,  269-71, 
295-96;  abolished,  260,  269;  assign- 
ments to,  263;  corruption  in,  252; 
as  counterrevolutionary  force,  36; 
equipped,  270;  established,  269;  func- 
tion of,  269-70;  incorporated  into 
armed  forces,  47;  intelligence  gather- 
ing, 278;  mission  of,  296;  as  national 
police,  261,  270-71;  organization  of, 
296;  organized,  28,  270;  reorganized, 
44-45;  role  of,  246;  specialized  units  of, 
270;  strength  of,  256 
Philippine  Constabulary  Special  Action 

Force,  270 
Philippine  Economic  Journal,  167 
Philippine  League.  See  Liga  Filipina 
Philippine  Military  Academy,  157,  263 
Philippine  National  Bank,  135,  159,  160; 
difficulties  in,  160;  rehabilitation  of, 
161 

Philippine  National  Police,  261,  270-71, 
300;  training,  296-97 

Philippine  National  Railroad,  165 

Philippine  Naval  Patrol,  266 

Philippine  Organic  Act  (1902),  28;  Ro- 
man Catholic  Church  under,  29 

Philippine  Overseas  Employment  Ad- 
ministration, 168 

Philippine  Rehabilitation  Act  (1946),  43 

Philippine  Scouts,  245 

Philippine  Senate,  32-33;  elections  to, 
32-33 

Philippine  Society  and  Revolution,  281 
Philippine  Sugar  Commission  (Philsu- 

com),  146-47 
Philippine  Trade  Act  (1946),  43;  parity 

clause  in,  43-44 
Philippine  Trough,  69 


Philsucom.  See  Philippine  Sugar  Com- 
mission 
physicians,  111 

Pilipino  Democratic  Party  (PDP),  221 

Pilipino  language,  67;  broadcasts  in,  165; 
in  education,  80,  111,  112,  government 
emphasis  on,  75-76;  as  lingua  franca, 
81;  in  media,  80 

Pimentel,  Aquilino,  207,  221 

pineapples:  as  foreign  exchange  earners, 
120,  136;  plantations,  147,  178,  179 

PISTON,  170 

Plaza  Miranda,  51,  220 

PKP.  See  Communist  Party  of  the 
Philippines 

Policy  Agenda  for  People-Powered  De- 
velopment, 171 

political:  demonstrations,  59-60;  organi- 
zation, 5;  prisoners,  227;  problems, 
xxiii,  xxiv,  230-32;  unrest,  xxvi,  51 

political  parties,  212,  218-22;  function  of, 

218-  19;  number  of,  223;  opposition, 

219-  20;  organized,  28;  patron-client 
relationships  in,  31,  219;  progovern- 
ment,  221-22;  proliferation  of,  191-92; 
system  of,  30-32 

politicians,  212 
politics,  224-26 
polygamy,  83 

Popcorn.  See  Population  Control  Com- 
mission 

population,  280;  age  distribution  in,  xxiii, 
166;  Catholics  as  percentage  of,  98;  of 
Chinese,  1 1 ;  Chinese  as  percentage  of, 
86;  Chinese  mestizos  as  percentage  of, 
11-12;  Christians  as  percentage  of,  80; 
control,  74-75;  density,  xxiii,  70;  dis- 
tribution, 70;  and  land  reform,  73-74; 
of  Metro  Manila,  73;  Moros  as  percen- 
tage of,  80,  98;  in  1980,  70,  93;  in  1985, 
93;  in  1990,  70;  percentage  of,  in 
poverty,  171;  projected,  227;  Protes- 
tants as  percentage  of,  104;  in  rural 
areas,  94,  136;  upland  tribal  groups  as 
percentage  of,  83 

Population  Control  Commission  (Pop- 
corn), 68,  74;  and  clergy,  74-75 

population  growth,  36,  68,  70,  166;  at- 
tempts to  reduce,  74;  of  Caloocan,  73; 
impacts  of,  135,  293;  of  Metro  Ma- 
nila, 73;  as  cause  of  poverty,  xxvi,  173; 
by  province,  73;  of  Quezon  City,  73; 
rate,  119 


379 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


population  statistics:  birthrate,  70;  death 
rate,  70;  infant  mortality,  70,  112;  life 
expectancy,  112 

ports,  162;  under  Spanish  rule,  10 

postal  services,  165 

poverty,  4,  279;  attempts  to  alleviate,  171; 

causes  of,  172-73;  extent  of,  171-72; 

line,  1 7 1 ;  population  living  in,  171;  in 

rural  areas,  171;  workers  living  in,  171 
power,  157-58;  generation,  126-27,  157, 

158;  in  rural  areas,  158;  shortages, 

xxxi,  155 

president:  as  commander  in  chief,  261; 
constraints  on,  199;  powers  of,  199; 
qualifications  of,  199;  succession  for, 
203;  term  of,  199 

Presidential  Decree  No.  27,  148 

Presidential  Decree  No.  765,  295 

Presidential  Economic  Staff,  128 

Presidential  Proclamation  No.  34,  195 

principales,  xxv;  characteristics  of,  6 

prisons,  299-300 

private  armies,  293 

private  sector:  in  economic  plans,  128 

privatization,  135 

Proclamation  1081,  52 

Proclamation  2045,  56 

propaganda  movement,  17-20;  or- 
ganized, 17 

Propagandists,  17-18;  goals  of,  18 

Protestants,  103-5;  community  welfare 
efforts  by,  107;  missionaries,  104;  as 
percentage  of  population,  104;  schools 
sponsored  by,  110;  views  by,  of  social 
action,  107-8 

provinces,  207 

public  order,  279-300 

public  safety  forces,  295-96 

public  sector:  deficit,  131;  under  martial 
law,  123 

Pulangi  River  (Rio  Grande),  69 

Quezon,  Aurora,  47 

Quezon,  Manuel,  32;  background  of,  30; 

collaboration  by,  with  Japanese,  42; 

death  of,  41;  as  Senate  president,  33 
Quezon  administration,  38 
Quirino,  Elpidio,  46 

radios,  165 

radio  stations,  165,  230 


Radio  Veritas,  xxviii,  62 
railroad  lines,  165 
rain  forests,  69 

RAM.  See  Reform  the  Armed  Forces 

Movement 
Ramos,  Benigno,  37;  exiled,  38 
Ramos,  Fidel,  62,  214,  229,  249;  as  leader 

of  military  rebellion,  xxviii,  244,  247; 

as  president,  xxx;  reform  of  armed 

forces  by,  250 
Reagan,  Ronald,  60-61 
rebellions,  280;  against  Spanish  rule,  8-9 
Recto,  Claro,  228;  collaboration  by,  with 

Japanese,  41 
Reform  the  Armed  Forces  Movement 

(RAM),  60,  227-28,  247,  257;  formed, 

227;  goals  of,  228,  249;  grievances  of, 

251;  role  of,  in  People's  Power,  249 
refugee  camps,  237 
regional  cooperation,  235 
religion  (see  also  under  individual  sects), 

98-  108;  ecumenical,  106-7;  in  educa- 
tion, 226-27;  historical  background, 

99-  100;  indigenous,  102-3;  role  of,  un- 
der Spanish  rule,  6;  syncretic,  99-100; 
traditional,  99 

religious:    associations,    98;  revivalist 

movements,  98-99 
Remnants  of  God,  228 
remontados,  15 

Reserve  Officers  Training  Corps 
(ROTC)  (see  also  Citizen  Military 
Training),  257,  263 

resistance  movements,  26-27,  36-38; 
deaths  in,  26;  against  Spanish  rule,  16; 
against  United  States  rule,  16 

Retail  Nationalization  Act  (1954),  177 

Revolutionary  Government  of  the 
Visayas:  proclaimed,  25 

Reyes,  Ricardo,  284 

rice:  area  planted  in,  120,  136;  exports 
of,  139;  farming,  85;  farms,  147;  im- 
ports of,  126,  139-40;  as  percentage  of 
gross  national  product,  139;  as  percent- 
age of  value  added,  139;  pricing  poli- 
cy for,  138;  production  of,  139 

Rice  Share  Tenancy  Act  (1933),  38 

Rio  Grande.  See  Pulangi  River 

river  systems,  69 

Rizal,  Jose,  17-20,  21;  background  of, 
18;  ethnicity  of,  87;  executed,  21;  ex- 
iled, 20 

roads,  161 


380 


Index 


Rock  Christ,  228 

Roman  Catholic  Church,  3,  100-101; 
Christmas  celebration  in,  101;  commu- 
nity welfare  efforts  by,  107;  conversions 
to,  100;  critical  collaboration  by,  xxvii, 
226;  as  extension  of  personal  alliance 
system,  101;  fiesta  celebration  in,  101; 
importance  of,  100-101;  influence  of, 
xxvi,  197,  226;  Lent  in,  101;  under 
martial  law,  58-59;  opposition  of,  to 
contraception,  173;  political  involve- 
ment of,  xxviii,  192,  226,  287;  schools 
sponsored  by,  110;  secularization  un- 
der, 13;  under  United  States  rule,  29; 
visitation  under,  13 

Roman  Catholics:  as  percentage  of  popu- 
lation, 99;  views  by,  of  social  action, 
107-8 

Romualdez,  Benjamin,  54 

Roosevelt,  Franklin  D.,  194 

Roosevelt,  Theodore,  22 

Rowe,  James  N.,  289 

Roxas,  Manuel,  38,  45;  ambitions  of,  for 
presidency,  42;  collaboration  by,  with 
Japanese,  41,  42;  death  of,  46;  as  presi- 
dent, 42 

Roxas  administration,  42-43;  policy  of, 

toward  Huks,  46 
Royal  Company  of  the  Philippines,  9,10 
rural  areas:  under  Aquino,  138;  com- 
munist insurgency  in,  93;  and  econom- 
ic plans,  128;  electricity  in,  158; 
housing  in,  70;  improvement  of  infra- 
structure in,  47-48;  living  areas,  94; 
under  Marcos,  138;  military  brutality 
in,  55;  old-style  politics  in,  224-26; 
poor  in,  4;  population  in,  94,  136; 
poverty  in,  171;  social  patterns  in, 
91-94;  social  values  in,  92 

Sabah:  claim  to,  49,  50,  196,  236-37, 

248-49 
Sakdalistas,  37 

Sakdal  Party:  platform  of,  37;  rebellion 
by,  37-38 

Salamat,  Hashim,  292 

Salas,  Rodolfo,  255,  282,  283 

Salonga,  Jovito,  220 

Sanchez,  Agusto,  170 

Sandiganbayan,  57,  204,  295 

San  Miguel  Naval  Communications  Sta- 
tion, 276 


Santiago,  Miriam  Defensor,  xxx 

savings,  domestic,  132 

schools:  Chinese,  86,  110;  elementary, 
108;  international,  110;  private,  110; 
public,  77,  107;  secondary,  108 

Schultz,  George,  186 

Schurman,  Jacob,  27 

Schurman  Commission.  See  Philippine 
Commission,  First 

Second  Indochina  War:  Philippine  in- 
volvement in,  50 

secularization,  13 

Securities  and  Exchange  Commission, 

158,  177 
security  agencies,  277-79 
security,  internal,  278,  279-300 
Self-Reliant  Defense  Posture  (SRDP)  pro- 
gram, 259 
Senate,  201;  members  of,  202 
service  sector,  158-66;  finance,  158-61; 
as  percentage  of  gross  national  product, 
120;  work  force  in,  120,  166 
Seven  Years'  War,  8 
shantytowns,  73 
sharia,  83 

shipping  industry,  162-65 
ships,  162,  267 
Sierra  Madre,  69 

Silang,  Diego:  assassination  of,  9;  rebel- 
lion under,  8-9 

Silliman  University,  104 

Sin,  Jaime  (cardinal),  59,  61,  61,  213; 
ethnicity  of,  87;  political  role  of,  192, 
226;  role  of,  in  People's  Power,  xxviii, 
107,  192 

Singapore:  migration  to,  74;  military 

training  in,  277 
Sin,  Salvation,  Life,  and  Property,  228 
Sison,  Jose  Maria,  254,  280,  284,  290; 

arrested,  282;  writings  of,  281 
sitios,  91 

snap  election,  xxviii,  60-61,  215,  222 

Socialist  Party,  38 

Social  Justice  program,  38 

social  organization,  88-91;  in  early  his- 
tory, 5;  in  rural  areas,  91-94;  in  urban 
areas,  94-96 

social  security  system,  115 

social  values,  4,  88-91;  litigiousness,  205; 
religious  faith,  88,  98;  respect  for 
authority,  88;  self-esteem,  88 

Soeharto,  236 

Southern  Command,  262 


381 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


Southern  Luzon  Command,  262 
Southeast  Asia  Treaty  Organization,  235 
Soviet  Communist  Party,  238 
Soviet  Union:  relations  with,  238 
Spain:  payment  to,  by  United  States,  25 
Spaniards:  as  Filipinos,  76 
Spanish  language:  education  in,  111 
Spanish- American  War:  declared,  22;  in- 
ternational involvement  in,  23;  Span- 
ish surrender  in,  23-24 
Spanish  rule,  xxiv,  3;  agricultural  exports 
under,  9;  Chinese  under,  8;  church- 
state  relations  under,  6;  conversion  to 
Christianity  under,  5-6;  cultural  in- 
fluence of,  76;  education  under,  13-14; 
entrepot  trade  under,  8;  indirect  rule 
under,  6;  industrial  development  un- 
der, 9;  Moros  under,  290;  national 
resistance  against,  16;  objectives  in,  5; 
ports  under,  10;  rebellions  against,  xxv, 
8-9;  role  of  religion  under,  6;  trade 
volume  under,  10 
Spratly  Islands,  235-36,  248 
squatters,  73,  95-96,  172,  293;  employ- 
ment of,  95;  eviction  of,  96;  support  of, 
96 

SRDP.  See  Self-Reliant  Defense  Posture 
statehood  movement,  29-30 
Steinberg,  David  J.,  101 
Strength  of  the  People.  See  LAB  AN 
strikes,  170,  171 

Struggle  of  Filipino  Democrats  (Laban  ng 
Demokratikong  Pilipino),  xxxi,  221 

Sturtevant,  David  R.,  35 

Subic  Bay  Naval  Base,  xxiii,  xxix,  xxxi, 
xxxii,  44,  185,  234,  276 

suffrage:  age  for,  222;  men's,  31-32; 
universal,  222;  women's,  32 

sugar,  143-47;  barons,  11,  144;  export  of, 
10,  11,  120,  143-44;  industry,  146;  mo- 
nopoly, 54;  prices,  144;  production  of, 

sugarcane:  farms,  147;  as  foreign  ex- 
change earner,  120,  136;  growing 
region,  144 

Sugar  Regulatory  Authority,  147 

suki,  88 

sultans,  82,  106 

Sulu  Archipelago:  sultanates  on,  76,  236, 
248 

Supreme  Court,  204;  established,  28; 
justices,  33,  204,  205;  role  of,  204 


Taal  Volcano,  69 

Tadeo,  Jaime,  171 

Tadtad  (Chop-Chop),  228 

Taft,  William  Howard,  28;  as  governor 
of  the  Philippines,  29 

Taft  Commission.  See  Philippine  Com- 
mission, Second 

Tagalog  language,  67,  77 

Tagalog  people,  80 

Taiwan,  238;  investment  by,  178 

Tanada,  Lorenzo,  221 

Tangulang,  37 

tariffs,  34,  121,  138;  controls  on,  174; 

protection,  176;  revision  of,  177 
Taruc,  Luis,  41;  jailed,  45;  surrender  of, 

48 

Task  force  Detainees,  229 
Tatad,  Francisco,  219 
tax:  evasion,  131;  reform,  129,  131;  sys- 
tem, 131 

taxes:  export,  138;  under  International 
Monetary  Fund  plan,  127;  local,  208; 
as  percentage  of  gross  national  product, 
130 

telecommunications,  165 

telephones,  165 

televisions,  165 

television  stations,  165,  230 

tenant  movement,  38 

terrorism,  280 

terrorist  organizations,  82 

Thailand:  military  training  in,  277 

Tiamzon,  Benito,  284 

Tiananmen  Square  massacre,  238 

tobacco,  10 

Tolentino,  Arturo,  216,  250 
torture,  229 

tourism,  165-66;  number  of  visitors,  165; 

reaction  of,  to  coup  attempts,  218; 

revenue  from,  166 
trade  (see  also  exports;  imports):  deficit, 

126;  international,  173-77;  policies, 

175-76;  terms  of,  175 
Trade  Union  Congress  of  the  Philippines 

(TUCP),  169,  170 
Training  Command,  263;  mission  of, 

263;  organization  of,  263 
transportation,  67,  161-65;  lack  of,  127, 

162;  as  unifying  force,  77 
Treaty  of  Paris,  8,  25-26;  Philippine  reac- 
tion to,  25;  terms  of,  25 
True  Decalogue,  The,  24 


382 


Index 


TUCP.  See  Trade  Union  Congress  of  the 

Philippines 
Tydings-McDuffie  Act,  39,  194;  terms  of, 

39 

typhoons,  xxiii,  69,  70,  126,  139,  155 


underemployment,   167,   173;  rate  of, 

xxiii,  119 
Underwood  Tariff  Act,  34-35 
unemployment,  173;  characteristics,  167; 
under  Marcos,  xxvii,  3,  59;  rate  of, 
xxiii,  119,  167;  in  urban  areas,  95 
UNIDO.  See  United  Nationalist  Demo- 
cratic Organization 
Union  for  National  Action.  See  United 

Nationalist  Alliance 
United  Brands,  179 
United  Church  of  Christ  in  the  Philip- 
pines, 103 
United  Coconut  Oil  Mills,  143 
United  Coconut  Planters  Bank,  143 
United  Nationalist  Alliance,  220 
United  Nationalist  Democratic  Organi- 
zation (UNIDO),  58,  220 
United  Nations,  232;  refugee  camps,  237 
United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific, 

and  Cultural  Organization,  232 
United  Nations  Food  and  Agriculture  Or- 
ganization, 232 
United  States,  22;  aid  from,  121,  235, 
259,  260;  dependence  on,  121,  173-74, 
232;  economic  relations  with,  43-44, 
173-74;  exports  to,  34-35,  144-46, 
173-74;  influences  of,  212;  investment 
by,  178,  235;  loans  from,  123,  183; 
materiel  from,  266,  269,  277;  migrants 
to,  67,  74,  167;  military  phaseout,  277; 
military  training  in,  277;  missionaries 
from,    104;   Moros  under,  290-91; 
negotiations  of,  with  Aguinaldo,  22-23; 
payment  to  Spain  by,  25;  personnel,  as- 
sassinations of,  233-34;  security  agree- 
ments with,  44-45;  support  of,  for 
Marcos,  60;  trade  quotas  with,  146; 
trade  with,  10 
United  States  Immigration  and  Nation- 
ality Act,  167 
United  States  Air  Force  Academy,  277 
United  States  Coast  Guard  Academy,  277 
United  States  Military  Academy,  277 
United  States  military  bases,  48-49,  245; 


conflict  over,  186,  234,  238;  in  consti- 
tution, 197;  conversion  of,  xxxi-xxxii, 
277;    economic   considerations  of, 
186-87;  negotiations  on,  185;  person- 
nel assigned  to,  234;  political  economy 
of,  185-87;  question  of,  48-49;  status 
of,  55;  United  States  access  to,  234;  va- 
cated, xxx,  xxxi 
United  States  Naval  Academy,  277 
United  States-Philippine  relations,  24,  55, 
232,  233-35;  cooperation  in,  235;  mili- 
tary, 273;  problems  in,  233 
United  States-Philippine  Trade  Agree- 
ment (1955),  44 
United  States  rule,  xxiv,  3;  initiated,  25; 
military  under,  245;  Moros  under,  27, 
28;  national  resistance  against,  xxv,  16, 
26-27,  245;  Roman  Catholic  Church 
under,  29 
University  of  Santo  Tomas,  14,  16 
University  of  the  Philippines,  94,  109 
upland  tribal  groups:  autonomy  for,  208; 
culture  of,  86;  folk  art  of,  84;  as  per- 
cent of  population,  84;  reservations  for, 
85-86 

uprising  of  1896,  21-22 

urban  areas:  buildings  in,  70;  household 
size  in,  95;  poverty  in,  4,  172,  173;  so- 
cial patterns  in,  94-96;  squatters  in,  95, 
172;  traditional  patterns  of  behavior  in, 
95;  unemployment  in,  95 

utang  na  bob,  61,  201 


value  added:  in  agriculture,  139;  to 
livestock,  151 

Vargas,  Jose:  collaboration  by,  with 
Japanese,  42 

Ver,  Fabian,  3,  54,  206,  214,  249,  278; 
involvement  of,  in  Aquino  assassina- 
tion, 247 

vice  president,  199 

Vickberg,  Edgar,  12 

Vietnam,  2337 

Vietnam  War,  237,  261 

vigilante  groups,  93,  228-29,  272;  exe- 
cutions by,  229;  guidelines  for,  229; 
rituals  of,  228,  229 

Visayan  Islands,  68 

Visayas  Command,  262 

visitation,  13 

volcanoes,  69 


383 


Philippines:  A  Country  Study 


voting,  222-24;  obstacles  to,  222;  rates, 
xxx,  222 


Wallace  Air  Station,  276 

Waray-Waray  language,  77 

Waray-Waray  people,  80-81 

Welga  ng  Bayan,  170 

Western  Command,  262 

Western  Mindanao  Region:  literacy  rate 

in,  109-110 
Westinghouse  Corporation,  xxxi,  181 
wildlife,  69 
Wilson,  Woodrow,  32 
Wolff,  Leon,  25 

women:  in  armed  forces,  258,  263;  and 
divorce,  98;  education  levels  of,  97; 
equal  rights  of,  97,  98;  as  family  trea- 
surers, 98;  household  responsibilities 
of,  98;  life  expectancy  for,  112;  litera- 
cy levels  of,  96;  in  Moro  society,  84; 
in  New  People's  Army,  289;  profes- 
sions of,  97;  role  of,  96-98;  and  sexual 
double  standard,  98;  in  work  force,  166 

Women's  Auxiliary  Corps,  258,  263 

Wood,  Leonard,  33 

work  force,  166-68;  in  agriculture,  119, 


136,  166;  in  fishing,  136;  in  forestry, 
136;  in  industry,  119;  in  informal  sec- 
tor, 166-67;  in  manufacturing,  119-20, 
154,  166;  poverty  among,  172;  partic- 
ipation rate,  166;  in  service  sector,  120, 
166-67;  women  in,  166 

World  Bank,  185,  232;  aid  from,  184; 
loan  disbursements  frozen  by,  131-32; 
loans  from,  123,  179,  182;  reaction  of, 
to  land  reform  program,  149-50;  trade 
recommendations  by,  176 

World  Development  Report,  1990,  172 

World  Health  Organization,  232 

World  Vision,  104 

World  War  II,  39-41,  246 


Young  Officers'  Union  (YOU),  228,  257; 

coup  attempt  by,  251 
Yniguez,  Nicanor,  219 
Ysagun,  Felix  Manalo,  102 

Zaide,  Gregorio,  26 
Zamboanga  port,  10,  162 
Zamora,  Jacinto,  17 


384 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


DjO-OD 

Afghanistan 

DDU-o/ 

Lrreece 

550-98 

Albania 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-59 

Angola 

550-82 

Guyana  and  Belize 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-151 

Honduras 

ODU-loy 

Australia 

OOU-lOD 

Hungary 

550-176 

Austria 

550-21 

India 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-68 

Iran 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-31 

Iraq 

ccn  ICQ 

Bulgaria 

c  crv  etc 

Israel 

550-61 

Burma 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

<^n  77 

^>nne 

^^n  fti 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

on 

Costa  Rica 

DDK)— oj 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic  and 

550-76 

Mongolia 

Haiti 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-167 

Finland 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-46 

Panama 

385 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-42 

Peru 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-72 

Philippines 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-162 

Poland 

550-97 

Uruguay 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-160 

Romania 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Soviet  Union 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

386 


\ 


PIN: 004244^000 


