area  handbook  series 

Portugal 

a  country  study 


Portugal 

a  country  study 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Eric  Solsten 
Research  Completed 
January  1993 


On  the  cover:  The  Tower  of  Belem,  on  the  outskirts  of 
Lisbon,  dates  from  the  early  sixteenth  century. 


Second  Edition,  First  Printing,  1994. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Portugal  :  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of  Con- 
gress ;  edited  by  Eric  Solsten.  —  2d  ed. 

p.    cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294) 
(DA  Pam  ;  550-181) 

Rev.  ed.  of:  Area  handbook  for  Portugal  /  coauthors,  Eugene 
K.  Keefe  .  .  .  [et.  al.].    1st  ed.  1976. 
"Research  completed  January  1993." 

Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp.  285-300)  and  index. 
ISBN  0-8444-0776-3 

1.  Portugal.    I.  Solsten,  Eric,  1943-    .  II.  Library  of  Con- 
gress. Federal  Research  Division.  III.  Area  handbook  for  Portu- 
gal. IV.  Series.  V.  Series:  DA  Pam  ;  550-181. 
DP517.P626    1993  93-30722 
946.9— dc20  CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-181 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared  by 
the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress  under 
the  Country  Studies/Area  Handbook  Program  sponsored  by  the 
Department  of  Army.  The  last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other 
published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


in 


Acknowledgments 


This  edition  supersedes  Portugal:  A  Country  Study,  published  in 
1976.  The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  their  use  of  portions  of  that 
edition  in  the  preparation  of  the  current  book. 

Various  members  of  the  staff  of  the  Federal  Research  Division 
of  the  Library  of  Congress  assisted  in  the  preparation  of  the  book. 
Sandra  W.  Meditz  made  helpful  suggestions  during  her  review  of 
all  parts  of  the  book.  Timothy  L.  Merrill  assisted  in  the  prepara- 
tion of  some  of  the  maps,  checked  the  content  of  all  the  maps,  and 
reviewed  the  sections  on  geography  and  telecommunications. 
Thanks  also  go  to  David  P.  Cabitto,  who  provided  graphics  sup- 
port; Wayne  Horn,  who  designed  the  cover  and  chapter  art;  Mar- 
ilyn L.  Majeska,  who  managed  editing  and  production  and  edited 
portions  of  the  manuscript;  Andrea  T.  Merrill,  who  provided  in- 
valuable assistance  with  regard  to  tables  and  figures;  and  Barbara 
Edgerton,  Alberta  Jones  King,  and  Izella  Watson,  who  performed 
word  processing. 

The  authors  also  are  grateful  to  individuals  in  various  United 
States  government  agencies  who  gave  their  time  and  special 
knowledge  to  provide  information  and  perspective.  These  individu- 
als include  Ralph  K.  Benesch,  who  oversees  the  Country 
Studies/ Area  Handbook  Program  for  the  Department  of  the  Army; 
and  Scott  B.  MacDonald  of  the  Office  of  the  Comptroller  of  the 
Currency,  who  offered  advice  in  the  preparation  of  sections  of  the 
manuscript.  In  addition,  the  authors  wish  to  thank  various  mem- 
bers of  the  staff  of  the  Embassy  of  the  Republic  of  Portugal  in 
Washington  for  their  assistance. 

Others  who  contributed  were  Harriett  R.  Blood  and  the  firm 
of  Greenhorne  and  O'Mara,  who  assisted  in  the  preparation  of 
maps  and  charts;  Mimi  Cantwell,  who  edited  the  chapters;  Beverly 
Wolpert,  who  performed  final  prepublication  editorial  review; 
Judite  Fernandes,  who  read  and  commented  on  portions  of  the  text; 
and  Joan  C.  Cook,  who  prepared  the  index.  Linda  Peterson  of  the 
Library  of  Congress  Composing  Unit  prepared  camera- ready  copy, 
under  the  direction  of  Peggy  Pixley.  The  inclusion  of  photographs 
was  made  possible  by  the  generosity  of  various  individuals  and  pub- 
lic and  private  agencies. 


v 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword    iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface      xiii 

Country  Profile     XV 

Introduction     xxiii 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting    l 

Walter  C.  Opello,  Jr. 

ORIGINS  OF  PORTUGAL   4 

Early  Inhabitants   4 

Phoenicians,  Greeks,  and  Carthaginians    5 

Romanization    6 

Germanic  Invasions   6 

Muslim  Domination    7 

Christian  Reconquest    8 

FORMATION  OF  THE  MONARCHY    9 

Afonso  Henriques  Becomes  King    10 

Territorial  Enlargement   10 

Settlement  and  Cultivation    12 

Political  and  Social  Organization   13 

Control  of  the  Royal  Patrimony    16 

Development  of  the  Realm    18 

THE  HOUSE  OF  AVIS   19 

Wars  with  Castile    20 

Anglo-Portuguese  Alliance   21 

Social  Revolution    21 

Intradynastic  Struggle    22 

Assertion  of  Royal  Supremacy   23 

MARITIME  EXPANSION    23 

Early  Voyages    24 

Sea  Route  to  India    26 

Empire  in  Asia    31 

Colonization  of  Brazil    32 

Counter-Reformation  and  Overseas 

Evangelization    32 

IMPERIAL  DECLINE    34 

Dynastic  Crisis    34 


vii 


Iberian  Union    35 

Restoration    37 

Development  of  Brazil   38 

Absolutism   39 

Peninsular  Wars    41 

CONSTITUTIONALISM    43 

Revolution  of  1820    43 

War  of  the  Two  Brothers    45 

Moderate  vs.  Radical  Liberals    46 

Rotativismo    48 

Portuguese  Africa   48 

REPUBLICANISM   49 

The  First  Republic    51 

Military  Dictatorship   54 

The  New  State    55 

The  Social  State    60 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment  ....  63 

Howard  J.  Wiarda 

THE  PHYSICAL  ENVIRONMENT    66 

DEMOGRAPHY    70 

Population  Size  and  Structure    73 

Emigration    75 

FAMILY  AND  KINSHIP  RELATIONS    79 

Family   80 

Women    82 

The  Extended  Family  and  Kinship  Relations    84 

SOCIAL  STRUCTURE  AND  SOCIAL  CLASSES   85 

The  Elite    88 

The  Middle  Class   90 

The  Lower  Class    91 

A  New  Portugal?   92 

ETHNICITY  AND  ETHNIC  GROUPS    94 

RELIGION  AND  THE  ROLE  OF  THE  ROMAN 

CATHOLIC  CHURCH    96 

History   96 

The  Salazar  Regime    98 

Changes  after  the  Revolution  of  1974   98 

Religious  Practices   99 

Non-Catholic  Religious  Groups   102 

EDUCATION   103 

SOCIAL  WELFARE   108 

Social  Welfare  Programs    109 

Health  Care   109 


vm 


Housing   110 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy   113 

Eric  N.  Baklanoff 

ECONOMIC  GROWTH  AND  STRUCTURAL  CHANGE  .  .  117 

The  Economy  of  the  Salazar  Regime    117 

Changing  Structure  of  the  Economy    120 

Economic  Growth,  1960-73  and  1981-90    122 

REVOLUTIONARY  CHANGE    123 

Nationalization    125 

The  Brain  Drain    127 

ROLE  OF  THE  CONSOLIDATED  PUBLIC  SECTOR    128 

The  Nonflnancial  Public  Enterprises    128 

The  General  Government    130 

Macroeconomic  Disequilibria  and  Public  Debt    132 

HUMAN  RESOURCES  AND  INCOME  DISTRIBUTION  .  .  134 
Employment  and  Sectoral  Composition 

of  the  Labor  Force   134 

Wages  and  the  Distribution  of  Income    137 

AGRICULTURE,  FORESTRY,  AND  FISHING    139 

Agricultural  Zones   140 

Crops  and  Livestock    141 

Forestry  and  Fishing    142 

Land  Tenure  and  Agrarian  Reform    143 

Agricultural  Policy  and  the  European  Community   ...  144 

THE  INDUSTRIAL  SECTOR    145 

Industrial  Regions   146 

Industrial  Organization    146 

Energy  and  Mineral  Resources    148 

SERVICES   150 

Commerce  and  Tourism    150 

Transportation  and  Communications    152 

Banking  and  Finance   153 

FOREIGN  ECONOMIC  RELATIONS   155 

Composition  and  Direction  of  Trade   156 

The  Balance  of  International  Payments   158 

Tourism  and  Unilateral  Transfers   159 

Foreign  Direct  Investment   160 

External  Public  Debt   162 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics    165 

Howard  J.  Wiarda 
THE  REVOLUTION  OF  1974  AND  THE  TRANSITION 

TO  DEMOCRACY   169 

The  Salazar-Caetano  Era    169 


ix 


Spmola  and  Revolution   171 

The  Transition  to  Civilian  Rule    174 

Consolidation  of  Democracy    176 

THE  GOVERNMENTAL  SYSTEM   180 

Constitutional  Development    181 

The  Presidency    183 

The  Council  of  State    185 

The  Prime  Minister   185 

The  Council  of  Ministers    186 

The  Assembly  of  the  Republic    187 

The  Judiciary   .  190 

Civil  Service    191 

Local  Government   192 

Autonomous  Regions  and  Macau    194 

The  Electoral  System   195 

POLITICAL  DYNAMICS    196 

Political  Parties    197 

Interest  Groups    202 

Political  Events  since  1987    207 

THE  MEDIA    210 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS    212 

Africa    213 

Western  Europe   214 

United  States   216 

Other  Countries  and  Areas    217 

Chapter  5.  National  Security   221 

Jean  R.  Tartter 

HISTORICAL  BACKGROUND    224 

The  Military  in  the  Salazar  Era    225 

The  Role  of  the  Armed  Forces  in  Africa   227 

ROLE  OF  THE  MILITARY  IN  PORTUGUESE 

POLITICAL  LIFE    229 

The  Military  Takeover  of  1974    230 

The  Armed  Forces  in  Political  Life  after  1975    234 

STRATEGIC  CONCEPTS  UNDERLYING  THE 

PORTUGUESE  DEFENSE  POSTURE    237 

THE  ARMED  FORCES    239 

Army   241 

Navy    244 

Air  Force   246 

Conditions  of  Service   249 

Uniforms,  Ranks,  and  Insignia    253 

Defense  Expenditures    256 


x 


PORTUGAL  AND  NATO   257 

BILATERAL  MILITARY  RELATIONS  WITH 

OTHER  COUNTRIES   258 

DOMESTIC  DEFENSE  PRODUCTION    260 

PUBLIC  ORDER  AND  INTERNAL  SECURITY    261 

The  Police  System   262 

National  Republican  Guard    262 

Public  Security  Police    263 

Other  Police  Forces    264 

Intelligence  Services   264 

Terrorist  Groups    266 

JUDICIAL  SYSTEM    267 

Criminal  Law  Procedure    268 

Incidence  of  Crime    270 

Penal  System   271 

Appendix.  Tables    275 

Bibliography    285 

Glossary    301 

Index    305 

Contributors    327 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions,  1992    xxii 

2  The  Reconquest,  1185-1250   14 

3  The  Portuguese  Empire  and  Routes  of  Exploration, 

Fifteenth  and  Sixteenth  Centuries    30 

4  Historical  Regions    68 

5  Topography  and  Drainage   72 

6  Estimated  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex, 

2000    76 

7  Structure  of  Education  System,  1992    106 

8  Economic  Activity,  1992    148 

9  Transportation  System,  1992    154 

10  Organization  of  the  Armed  Forces,  1992    240 

11  Major  Military  Installations,  1992    242 

12  Officer  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1992    254 

13  Enlisted  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1992    255 


xi 


Preface 


Like  its  predecessor,  this  study  attempts  to  review  the  history 
and  treat  in  a  concise  and  objective  manner  the  dominant  social, 
political,  economic,  and  military  aspects  of  Portugal.  Sources  of 
information  included  books,  scholarly  journals,  foreign  and  domes- 
tic newspapers,  official  reports  of  government  and  international 
organizations,  and  numerous  periodicals  on  Portuguese  and  in- 
ternational affairs.  Chapter  bibliographies  appear  at  the  end  of  the 
book,  and  brief  comments  on  some  of  the  more  valuable  sources 
recommended  for  further  reading  appear  at  the  end  of  each  chap- 
ter. A  Glossary  is  also  included. 

Spellings  of  place-names  used  in  the  book  are  in  most  cases  those 
approved  by  the  United  States  Board  on  Geographic  Names.  Ex- 
ceptions are  the  use  of  Lisbon  rather  than  Lisboa,  the  Portguese 
form  of  the  capital's  name,  and  Azores  rather  than  Acores. 

Measurements  are  given  in  the  metric  system.  A  conversion  ta- 
ble is  provided  to  assist  those  readers  who  are  unfamiliar  with  metric 
measures  (see  table  1,  Appendix). 

The  body  of  the  text  reflects  information  available  as  of  Janu- 
ary 1993.  Certain  other  portions  of  the  text,  however,  have  been 
updated:  the  Introduction  discusses  significant  events  that  have  oc- 
curred since  the  completion  of  the  research,  and  the  Bibliography 
includes  recently  published  sources  thought  to  be  particularly  helpful 
to  the  reader. 


xiii 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Portuguese  Republic. 
Short  Form:  Portugal. 

Term  for  Citizen(s):  Portuguese  (singular  and  plural);  adjective — 
Portuguese. 

Capital:  Lisbon  (Portuguese,  Lisboa). 

Geography:  92,080  square  kilometers;  land  area:  91,640  square 
kilometers;  includes  Azores  (Portuguese,  Acores),  and  Madeira 
islands. 

NOTE — The  Country  Profile  contains  updated  information  as  available. 


XV 


Topography:  Hills  and  mountains  north  of  Tagus  River  (Rio 
Tejo);  rolling  plains  to  south. 

Climate:  Varied  with  considerable  rainfall  and  marked  seasonal 
temperatures  in  north;  dryer  conditions  in  south  with  mild  tem- 
peratures along  coast  but  sometimes  very  hot  in  interior. 

Society 

Population:  Estimated  at  10.5  million  in  1992;  growth  rate  of  0.4 
percent  in  1992. 

Education  and  Literacy:  Primary  education  (age  six  to  twelve) 
and  junior  high  school  (age  thirteen  to  fifteen)  free  and  compulsory, 
but  because  many  children  began  working  at  early  age,  education 
ended  at  the  primary  level  for  many.  Senior  high  school  (age  six- 
teen to  seventeen)  had  academic  and  vocational  components. 
Twelfth  grade  (age  eighteen)  prepared  youths  for  university  and 
technical  college.  Estimated  literacy  rate  85  percent  for  those  over 
age  fifteen  in  1990. 

Health:  Uneven  provision  of  health  care;  health  care  available 
ranged  from  high  quality  to  that  prevalent  in  the  Third  World. 
Many  Portuguese,  especially  those  living  in  rural  areas,  not  able 
to  enjoy  liberal  health  benefits  provided  for  in  legislation.  Infant 
mortality  rate  greatly  improved  in  last  few  decades  to  estimated 
rate  of  10  per  1,000  in  1992.  Life  expectancy  seventy-one  years 
for  males  and  seventy-eight  for  females  in  1992. 

Language:  Portuguese. 

Ethnic  Groups:  Homogeneous  Mediterranean  stock  on  mainland, 
Azores,  and  Madeira  Islands.  Less  than  100,000  citizens  of  black 
African  descent,  who  immigrated  in  1970s  to  Portugal  from  its 
former  colonies  in  Africa;  small  number  of  Gypsies;  small  Jewish 
community. 

Religion:  Nominally  Roman  Catholic  97  percent;  Protestant 
denominations  1  percent;  others  2  percent. 

Economy 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP — see  Glossary):  Purchasing  power 
equivalent  estimated  at  US$87.3  billion  in  1991  (US$8,400  per  cap- 
ita). Economy  stagnant  during  second  half  of  1970s  and  first  half 
of  1980s  because  of  world  economic  slump  and  extensive  nation- 
alizations during  Revolution  of  1974.  Between  1986  and  1990,  GDP 
grew  at  4.6  percent  each  year. 


xvi 


Agriculture:  Made  up  6.1  percent  of  GDP  and  employed  about 
17.8  percent  of  labor  force  in  1990.  Small  farms  in  north,  larger 
farms  in  south;  productivity  and  mechanization  below  European 
Community  (EC — see  Glossary)  levels;  imports  more  than  half  of 
food  needs.  Major  crops:  grain,  corn,  rice,  potatoes,  olives,  grapes, 
cork;  important  livestock:  pigs,  cattle,  sheep,  chickens;  dairy  farms 
mostly  in  northwest.  EC  membership  threatened  long-term  sur- 
vival of  southern  grain-growing  and  cattle-raising  farms;  farms 
producing  rice,  vegetables,  and  wine  likely  to  fare  well. 

Industry:  38.4  percent  of  GDP  in  1990.  Concentrated  in  two 
regions:  Lisbon-Setubal,  much  heavy  industry  (steel,  shipbuild- 
ing, oil  refineries,  chemicals);  and  Porto- Aveiro-Braga,  mostly  light 
industry  (textiles,  footwear,  wine,  food  processing).  In  1990  owner- 
ship of  industries  varied:  light  industry  usually  privately  owned; 
heavy  industry  often  state  owned;  high  technology  manufacturing 
often  foreign  owned. 

Services:  55.5  percent  of  GDP  in  1990;  accounted  for  47  percent 
of  work  force.  Tourism  important  component  of  service  sector;  19.6 
million  visitors  in  1991. 

Imports:  In  1990  imports  of  goods  and  services  accounted  for  about 
47  percent  of  GDP.  Manufactured  goods  (machinery,  transporta- 
tion equipment,  chemicals)  accounted  for  about  75  percent  of  mer- 
chandise imports,  food  and  beverages  for  about  10  percent,  and 
raw  materials  (mostly  petroleum)  for  about  16  percent. 

Exports:  In  1990  exports  of  goods  and  services  accounted  for  about 
37  percent  of  GDP.  Manufactured  goods  accounted  for  80  per- 
cent of  merchandise  exports  in  1989.  In  1990  textiles,  clothing,  and 
footwear  made  up  37  percent  of  total  export  value;  machinery  and 
transport  equipment,  20  percent;  forest  products,  10  percent;  and 
agricultural  products,  8  percent. 

Major  Trade  Partners:  EC  major  trading  partner,  buying  nearly 
75  percent  of  Portugal's  exports,  and  supplying  nearly  74  percent 
of  its  imports  in  1992.  Germany  and  Spain  the  most  important 
trading  partners.  Only  3.0  percent  of  Portugal's  imports  in  1992 
came  from  the  United  States;  Organization  of  the  Petroleum  Ex- 
porting Countries  (OPEC)  accounted  for  less  than  4  percent. 

Balance  of  Payments:  Despite  negative  trade  balances,  large  earn- 
ings from  tourism  and  remittances  from  Portuguese  living  abroad, 
in  addition  to  direct  foreign  investment  and  EC  transfers,  result- 
ed in  generally  favorable  balances  of  payments  (US$3.5  billion  in 
1990). 


xvii 


Exchange  Rate:  In  March  1993,  151.04  escudos  (Esc — see  Glos- 
sary) per  US$1. 

Fiscal  Year:  Calendar  year. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Railroads:  Railroad  network  amounting  to  about  3,600  kilometers 
in  1990,  of  which  about  450  kilometers  were  electrified.  Except  for 
several  small  railroads  owned  by  mining  industry  and  Lisbon's  sub- 
way system,  all  of  Portugal  railroad  network  operated  by  the  state 
company,  Caminhos  de  Ferro  Portugueses  (CP). 

Roads:  Total  road  network  amounting  to  about  73,660  kilome- 
ters, of  which  61,000  surfaced  (bituminous,  gravel,  and  crushed 
stone);  140  kilometers  limited-access  divided  highway. 

Inland  Waterways:  820  kilometers  of  navigable  inland  waterways; 
relatively  unimportant  to  economy;  used  by  shallow-draft  craft  limit- 
ed to  300-metric-ton  capacity. 

Ports:  Lisbon,  LeixSes,  and  Sines  fully  equipped  with  adequate 
warehousing  facilities.  Also  important:  Viano  do  Castelo,  Aveira, 
Figueira  daFoz,  Setubal,  Portimao,  Ponta  Delgada  (Azores),  and 
Velas  (Azores). 

Civil  Airports:  65  total,  62  usable;  36  with  permanent  surface  run- 
ways. Lisbon's  Portela  Airport,  major  European  air  terminal  and 
transit  point.  International  flights  also  scheduled  to  Porto,  Faro, 
Santa  Maria  (Azores),  Sao  Miguel  (Azores),  and  Funchal 
(Madeira). 

Telecommunications:  Generally  adequate  facilities.  Integrated  net- 
work of  coaxial  cables  and  microwave;  numerous  AM  and  FM  radio 
stations;  International  Telecommunication  Satellite  Corporation 
(INTELSAT)  and  European  Telecommunication  Satellite  Corpo- 
ration (EUTELSAT)  service. 

Government  and  Politics 

National  Government:  Constitution  of  1976,  substantially  revised 
in  1982  and  1989,  established  system  of  government,  both  presiden- 
tial and  parliamentary.  Division  of  executive  power  between  presi- 
dent and  the  government  (prime  minister  and  his  cabinet,  the 
Council  of  Ministers).  Division  of  legislative  power  between  govern- 
ment and  parliament  (Assembly  of  the  Republic).  Government 
responsible  to  parliament,  from  which  prime  minister  and  most 
cabinet  members  come.  President,  government,  and  parliament 


xvin 


have  varying  degrees  of  power  and  influence  over  each  other.  Presi- 
dent elected  every  five  years  in  nationwide  vote;  Mario  Alberto 
Nobre  Lopes  Soares  elected  in  1986  and  1991.  Assembly  of  the 
Republic,  with  230  to  235  members,  elected  every  four  years  if 
legislative  period  completed.  Earlier  election  possible  if  parliament 
dissolved. 

Politics:  Free  and  democratic,  with  variety  of  parties  articulating 
wide  range  of  political  viewpoints.  Four  main  parties  consistently 
in  parliament  since  1976:  Portuguese  Communist  Party  (Partido 
Comunista  Portugues — PCP);  Socialist  Party  (Partido  Socialista — 
PS);  Social  Democrat  Party  (Partido  Social  Democrata — PSD);  So- 
cial Democratic  Center  Party  (Partido  do  Centro  Democratico 
Social — CDS).  Political  system  gradually  being  dominated  by  PSD 
and  PS.  In  1987  and  1991  national  elections,  PSD  won  with  slight 
majorities  and  formed  governments  with  its  leader,  Anibal  Cava- 
co  Silva,  as  prime  minister.  PS  secured  29.3  percent  of  the  vote 
in  1991;  PCP,  8.8  percent;  CDS,  4.4  percent. 

Legal  System:  An  independent  judiciary  guaranteed  by  the  con- 
stitution. Constitution  also  provides  for  Constitutional  Court  to 
review  constitutionality  of  legislation,  Supreme  Court  of  Justice 
to  oversee  regular  courts,  both  civil  and  criminal,  and  Supreme 
Administrative  Court  to  supervise  system  of  administrative  courts. 
In  addition,  constitution  mandates  the  appointment  of  ombuds- 
man to  protect  rights  of  Portuguese  citizens  by  investigating  their 
complaints  about  actions  of  state  authorities. 

Local  Government  and  Administration:  Constitution  provides 
for  a  number  of  administrative  regions,  but  not  yet  realized.  In 
meantime,  mainland  divided  into  eighteen  districts,  each  named 
after  its  capital.  Districts  responsible  for  police,  elections,  and 
monitoring  local  government.  Local  government  managed  by  305 
municipalities,  further  divided  into  about  4,000  parishes.  Elections 
for  governing  assemblies  of  municipalities  held  every  four  years. 

Autonomous  Regions  and  Macau:  Archipelagoes  of  Azores  and 
Madeira  enjoyed  extensive  autonomy  since  1976.  Each  had  own 
assembly;  sent  members  to  national  parliament;  government's 
representative  to  each  region  was  minister  of  the  republic.  Macau, 
consisting  of  peninsula  attached  to  the  Chinese  mainland  and  two 
islands,  Portugal's  last  colony.  According  to  agreement  between 
Lisbon  and  China,  Macau  to  become  part  of  China  in  1999,  but 
to  retain  its  free-market  economic  system. 

Foreign  Relations:  Historically  aloof  from  European  affairs  except 


xix 


for  1386  Treaty  of  Windsor  with  Britain.  Neutral  in  World  War 
II,  but  permitted  Britain  and  United  States  military  use  of  Azores. 
Since  end  of  World  War  II,  formed  many  international  links.  Most 
notably:  founding  member  of  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 
(NATO)  in  1949,  joined  the  United  Nations  (UN)  in  1955,  Euro- 
pean Free  Trade  Association  (EFT A)  in  1959,  Organisation  for 
Economic  Co-operation  and  Development  (OECD)  in  1961,  Coun- 
cil of  Europe  in  1976,  European  Community  (EC)  in  1986,  and 
Western  European  Union  (WEU)  in  1988. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces  (1993):  Total  personnel  on  active  duty,  50,000 
(17,600  conscripts);  army  27,200  (15,000  conscripts);  navy,  12,500 
(800  conscripts);  air  force,  11,000  (1,800  conscripts).  Reserves  (all 
services),  210,000. 

Major  Units:  Army  has  six  territorial  commands  with  one  com- 
posite brigade,  three  infantry  brigades,  and  one  special  forces 
brigade;  navy  has  three  commands  (mainland,  Azores,  and 
Madeira)  and  2,500  marines  organized  into  three  battalions  (two 
infantry,  one  police);  air  force  has  one  operational  command  of 
eighteen  squadrons,  including  three  attack  squadrons. 

Military  Equipment  (1993):  Army  has  about  200  tanks,  350  ar- 
mored personnel  carriers,  variety  of  other  combat  vehicles;  300 
pieces  of  towed  artillery;  fifty-one  TOW  (tube-launched,  optically 
tracked,  wire-guided)  missiles,  sixty-five  Milan  wire-guided  mis- 
siles, and  seventeen  SAM  (surface-to-air)  missiles;  and  240  recoil- 
less  launchers.  Navy  had  three  submarines,  eleven  frigates 
(including  three  MEKO  200s),  and  twenty-nine  patrol  and  coastal 
boats.  Air  force  had  40  Alpha  Jets,  about  seventy  A- 7  and  A-7P 
Corsairs,  and  six  Lockheed  P-3B  Orion  maritime  reconnaissance 
aircraft.  Major  transport  aircraft  included  six  C-130H  Hercules 
and  forty-four  CASA  C-212  planes  of  various  types. 

Military  Budget  1992:  US$1.7  billion,  2.0  percent  of  GDP. 

Foreign  Military  Treaties:  Founding  member  of  NATO.  Treaty 
signed  in  1951  and  periodically  renewed  permits  United  States  use 
of  Lajes  Air  Base  on  Terceira  Island  in  Azores. 

Internal  Security  Forces:  National  Republican  Guard  (Guarda 
Nacional  Republicana — GNR),  heavily  armed  paramilitary  con- 
stabulary, consisted  in  1990  of  about  19,000  personnel  organized 
into  battalions  in  major  cities  and  companies  in  district  capitals. 


xx 


Equipped  with  Commando  armored  cars  and  Alouette  II  helicop- 
ters. Available  to  quell  demonstrations  and  labor  unrest.  Public 
Security  Police  (Policia  de  Seguranca  Publica — PSP),  paramilitary 
force  responsible  for  security  in  urban  areas,  consisted  of  17,000 
personnel  in  1990.  Subsection,  Intervention  Police,  could  be 
deployed  anywhere  in  the  country.  Fiscal  Guard  (Guarda  Fiscal), 
border  control  force  with  staff  of  8,500  in  1990,  also  investigated 
tax  evasion  and  financial  fraud. 


xxi 


  International 

boundary 

 District 

boundary 

®  National 
capital 

O        District  capital 

Districts  are  named  after  their 
respective  capitals.  Lisbon  is 
the  capital  ot  Lisboa  district. 

0       25     50  Kilometers 


 "I. 

/  / 


Castelo 


Mlantic 
Ocean 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 

10 

 l  


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions,  1992 


xxii 


Introduction 


ON  APRIL  25,  1974,  scores  of  junior  Portuguese  Army  officers 
staged  a  coup  d'etat  that  in  a  manner  of  hours  toppled  the 
authoritarian  regime  that  had  ruled  their  country  for  nearly  half 
a  century.  The  virtually  bloodless  coup  was  followed  by  what  be- 
came known  to  the  world  as  the  Revolution  of  1974  as  Portugal's 
archaic  and  repressive  governing  system  was  swept  away  in  a  period 
of  political  and  social  turbulence.  The  young  officers,  members  of 
the  secret  Armed  Forces  Movement  (Movimento  das  Forcas 
Armadas — MFA),  wished  to  end  the  wars  their  country  had  been 
fighting  in  its  African  colonies  since  the  early  1960s.  Their  modest 
aim  of  changing  Portugal's  political  leadership,  however,  let  loose 
long  pent-up  social  and  political  energies  that  soon  turned  into  a 
veritable  revolution  and  kept  Portugal  in  the  headlines  of  the  world's 
newspapers  for  the  next  eighteen  months.  A  nervous  Western  Eu- 
rope looked  on  as  Portugal's  governing  and  financial  elites  fled  the 
country  or  were  exiled,  as  a  variety  of  forces  vied  for  dominance 
and  the  Stalinist  Portuguese  Communist  Party  (Partido  Comunista 
Portugues — PCP)  seemed  close  to  seizing  power,  as  leading  banks 
and  businesses  were  nationalized,  and  as  large  estates  were  collec- 
tivized by  landless  peasants. 

The  revolution  eventually  played  itself  out.  Many  of  its  feared 
consequences,  such  as  a  communist  takeover  or  a  civil  war,  did 
not  occur.  Moreover,  many  of  the  actions,  for  example  nationali- 
zations and  collectivizations,  that  were  implemented  during  the 
revolution,  had  been  reversed  to  a  great  extent  by  1993,  and  the 
serious  damage  done  to  the  overall  economy  was  gradually  being 
repaired.  The  economy  grew  rapidly  in  the  second  half  of  the  1980s 
and  continued  to  show  respectable  growth  rates  in  the  early  1990s. 
As  another  indication  of  improving  economic  health,  Portugal's 
currency,  the  escudo  (for  value  of  the  escudo — see  Glossary),  was 
strong  enough  to  be  placed  in  the  exchange  rate  mechanism  of  the 
European  Monetary  System  in  April  1992. 

The  revolution's  legacy  also  had  a  positive  side,  however,  and 
nearly  two  decades  after  the  sequence  of  events  that  began  in  April 
1974,  some  remarkable  achievements  could  be  seen.  After  centu- 
ries of  isolation  and  backwardness,  Portugal  had  become  an  in- 
tegral part  of  Western  Europe  through  its  membership  in  the 
European  Community  (EC — see  Glossary).  In  the  first  half  of  1992, 
Portugal  assumed  the  presidency  of  the  EC  and  fulfilled  the  obliga- 
tions of  this  office  in  a  professional  manner.  Even  more  significant, 


xxni 


perhaps,  were  the  establishment  and  consolidation  of  a  system  of 
parliamentary  democracy.  After  a  troubled  start,  this  democracy, 
watched  over  by  a  free  and  vigorous  press,  had  given  the  country 
a  strong  and  competent  government  able  to  bring  about  peaceful 
change . 

Portugal  has  a  glorious  past.  It  is  the  oldest  European  nation- 
state,  having  attained  its  present  extent  by  about  1200,  centuries 
before  neighboring  Spain  or  France  became  unified  states.  In  the 
early  decades  of  the  fourteenth  century,  Portugal  began  a  period 
of  exploration  that  within  a  hundred  years  gave  it  an  empire  that 
literally  spanned  the  globe. 

The  wealth  the  empire  brought  mainland  Portugal  had  woeful 
long-term  consequences,  however.  The  country's  leaders  turned 
away  from  Europe  and  its  political  and  technological  advances.  Por- 
tugal's economy  battened  on  the  colonies,  rather  than  developing 
through  competition  with  other  European  countries.  Because  Por- 
tugal was  too  small  a  country  to  defend  its  extensive  possessions, 
much  of  the  empire  was  soon  lost.  Even  into  the  second  half  of 
the  twentieth  century,  however,  enough  of  the  empire  remained 
that  Portugal  continued  to  exist  somewhat  outside  the  world  econ- 
omy. The  colonies  provided  the  mainland  with  foodstuffs  and  raw 
materials  and  were  a  captive  market  for  low-quality  Portuguese 
manufactures.  A  greater  threat  to  the  long-term  well-being  of  the 
Portuguese  people  than  the  country's  backward  economy,  however, 
was  perhaps  the  state  of  its  social  and  political  institutions.  Long 
ruled  by  a  tiny  oligarchy  supported  by  the  military  and  a  rigid 
authoritarian  church  untouched  by  the  Reformation,  the  mass  of 
the  Portuguese  population  was  passive  and  ignorant.  The  nation's 
wealth  was  reserved  for  a  few,  most  of  whom  lived  in  Lisbon.  The 
small  middle  class  was  docile  and  without  experience  in  government. 

The  European  Enlightenment  had  a  powerful  exponent  of  its 
ideas  in  the  Marques  de  Pombal,  who  attempted  a  thorough-going 
reform  of  Portugal  in  the  third  quarter  of  the  eighteenth  century. 
His  reforms  were  paternalistically  enforced  from  above,  however, 
and  after  his  fall  from  power  were  soon  reversed.  The  early  nine- 
teenth century  saw  the  fashioning  of  a  constitutional  monarchy, 
but  parliamentary  politics  was  soon  a  cynical  rotation  of  public  office 
among  members  of  a  small  elite  in  Lisbon.  Most  of  the  population 
labored  neglected  and  illiterate  in  the  countryside. 

A  more  serious  attempt  at  parliamentary  democracy  occurred 
in  1910  when  a  republic,  the  so-called  First  Republic,  was  pro- 
claimed. Suffrage  was  restricted,  however,  and  most  Portuguese  were 
without  the  right  to  vote.  The  small  urban  middle  class  that  was 
active  in  the  republic's  affairs  formed  into  numerous  personalistic 


xxiv 


parties  that  soon  showed  themselves  incapable  of  governing.  The 
dozens  of  inefficient  governments  in  the  republic's  brief  life  of  six- 
teen years  did  not  win  many  Portuguese  to  the  cause  of  parliamen- 
tary democracy.  Anticlerical  laws  also  alienated  many,  as  did 
frequent  instances  of  corruption. 

When  a  coup  by  junior  military  officers  in  1926  put  an  end  to 
the  First  Republic,  few  regretted  the  death  of  Portuguese  parliamen- 
tary democracy.  But  no  member  of  the  military  was  able  to  effec- 
tively direct  Portugal's  affairs,  and  a  young  economist,  Antonio 
de  Oliveira  Salazar,  gradually  came  to  govern  the  country.  First 
as  minister  of  finance,  then  as  prime  minister  beginning  in  1932, 
he  brought  a  new  order  and  stability  to  the  country.  In  1933  an 
authoritarian,  traditionalist,  statist  system,  the  New  State  (Estado 
Novo),  was  inaugurated  to  protect  Portugal  from  both  Western 
liberal  democracy  and  communism. 

Salazar  directed  this  regime  until  he  was  incapacitated  by  an  ac- 
cident in  1968.  He  was  succeeded  by  Marcello  Jose  das  Neves 
Caetano,  who  governed  until  April  1974.  The  governing  system 
they  ruled  attempted  to  shield  Portugal  from  such  modern  problems 
as  labor  strife,  rapacious  wealth,  and  departure  from  traditional 
concepts  of  personal  morality.  Salazar  outlawed  labor  unions, 
replacing  them  with  organizations  that  were  supposed  to  bring  labor 
and  capital  together  in  such  a  way  that  class  conflict  was  avoided. 
He  banned  all  political  parties  except  one  official  party,  rigorous- 
ly controlled  the  press,  and  carefully  supervised  the  country's  few 
schools.  Mindful  of  the  social  changes  a  modernizing  economy  en- 
genders, he  even  attempted  to  arrest  commercial  change  and  stop 
the  expansion  of  the  country's  small  industrial  sector.  An  exten- 
sive system  of  informants  and  an  efficient  secret  police  easily  coun- 
tered the  regime's  few  opponents. 

Portugal's  authoritarian  regime  lasted  for  nearly  half  a  centu- 
ry. It  loosened  its  strictures  on  the  economy  somewhat  after  1959, 
and  the  Portuguese  economy  grew  at  a  very  rapid  rate  until  1974. 
It  permitted  a  few  elections  in  which  dissenting  voices  were  heard 
but  to  no  lasting  effect.  The  press  was  allowed  a  slightly  greater 
degree  of  freedom  in  the  early  1970s,  but  otherwise  the  regime  re- 
mained firmly  in  control. 

The  sudden  collapse  of  the  regime  in  April  1974  surprised  every- 
one. Also  unexpected  were  the  engineers  of  its  collapse,  young 
officers  who  served  in  the  military,  long  the  regime's  chief  sup- 
port. These  officers  were  brought  to  their  extreme  action  by  the 
regime's  stubborn  determination  to  retain  Portugal's  African  colo- 
nies. Having  served  on  the  front  lines  and  seen  the  human  costs 
of  the  wars  firsthand,  the  officers  knew  that  defeating  the  strong 


xxv 


rebel  movements  in  these  colonies  was  beyond  Portugal's  power. 
They  staged  the  April  coup  to  stop  further  futile  bloodshed.  Their 
simple  coup  became  a  revolution. 

The  sudden  and  unexpected  collapse  of  the  regime  created  a  po- 
litical vacuum.  Decades  of  political  repression  had  left  the  Por- 
tuguese people  with  no  practical  experience  of  governing  themselves. 
The  widespread  hatred  of  the  regime  barred  its  major  figures  from 
any  active  role  in  politics.  A  few  younger  politicians  active  within 
the  regime  were  seen  as  sufficiently  untainted  to  continue  to  be 
involved  in  public  affairs.  Their  experience  allowed  them  to  as- 
sume leadership  positions  in  several  parties  located  on  the  moder- 
ate right  of  the  political  spectrum.  Francisco  Sa  Carneiro  took 
control  of  the  Popular  Democratic  Party  (Partido  Popular  Demo- 
cratico — PPD),  and  Diogo  Freitas  do  Amaral,  a  law  professor,  came 
to  head  the  Party  of  the  Social  Democratic  Center  (Partido  do  Cen- 
tro  Democratico  Social — CDS).  Mario  Alberto  Nobre  Lopes  Soares, 
who  had  long  opposed  the  regime  and  had  endured  imprisonment 
and  exile  because  of  his  open  resistance,  returned  to  Portugal  within 
days  of  the  coup  to  lead  the  newly  reestablished  Socialist  Party  (Par- 
tido Socialista — PS).  Communists  had  been  active  underground 
for  decades  under  the  leadership  of  the  Stalinist  Alvaro  Cunhal, 
who  directed  the  PCP  from  Eastern  Europe.  Like  Soares,  Cunhal 
also  returned  to  Portugal  immediately  after  the  coup  and  plunged 
into  the  turbulent  politics  that  filled  the  capital's  streets  and  squares. 
Because  the  PCP  alone  among  political  parties  had  a  sizeable 
organized  infrastructure  in  place,  it  occupied  a  political  space  greater 
than  its  actual  strength. 

Political  power  was  by  no  means  limited  to  these  parties,  which 
in  the  first  months  of  the  revolution  had  marginal  roles,  but  was 
held  by  a  broad  variety  of  groups.  Numerous  splinter  groups  to 
the  left  of  the  PCP  were  soon  active  and  made  themselves  known 
through  street  demonstrations.  The  PCP-controlled  labor  union 
Intersindical  emerged  from  its  semi-underground  position  and 
worked  alongside  the  often  independent  Workers'  Committees, 
which  quickly  began  taking  control  of  numerous  factories  and  busi- 
nesses. The  MFA,  with  its  select  military  force,  the  Continental 
Operations  Command  (Comando  Operacional  do  Continente — 
COPCON),  wielded  much  power,  as  well.  The  most  visible  poli- 
tician of  the  first  months  of  the  revolution  was  General  Antonio 
de  Spmola,  who  became  the  president  of  the  country's  interim 
government. 

Given  this  array  of  forces,  there  was  no  one  center  of  power. 
Groups  formed  temporary  alliances,  giant  street  rallies  attempted 
to  influence  the  direction  of  politics,  the  PCP  placed  its  people  in 


xxvi 


many  key  positions  in  the  country's  public  institutions,  and  politi- 
cal parties  to  the  right  of  the  PCP  attempted  to  prevent  a  com- 
munist takeover.  Given  its  nature  as  an  organized  and  disciplined 
force,  the  military  was  the  single  most  important  element  during 
the  revolution,  although  most  officers  were  not  radicals. 

A  series  of  provisional  governments  was  formed  that  with  time 
became  increasingly  leftist  and  dominated  by  radical  military 
officers.  An  attempted  rightist  coup  by  Spinola  in  March  1975 
caused  a  leftist  countermovement,  a  wave  of  nationalizations  of 
banks  and  other  businesses,  and  the  seizure  of  many  large  farms 
in  southern  Portugal.  Attempts  to  bring  the  revolution  to  the  north 
backfired,  and  that  region's  smallholders  offered  the  first  success- 
ful resistance  to  the  revolutionary  left's  program  to  turn  Portugal 
into  a  socialist  state. 

Another  indication  that  the  country  as  a  whole  did  not  wish  a 
revolutionary  government  was  the  April  1975  election  of  the  Con- 
stituent Assembly,  in  which  parties  to  the  right  of  the  PCP  had 
an  overwhelming  majority.  The  assembly  had  no  legislative  pow- 
ers but  had  as  its  sole  purpose  the  drafting  of  a  constitution  for 
a  democratic  government.  It  began  this  work  against  the  backdrop 
of  an  increasingly  radical  revolution. 

During  the  summer  of  1975,  splits  appeared  within  the  MFA 
itself.  Moderate  elements  favoring  a  political  program  akin  to  Scan- 
dinavian social  democracy  gained  the  upper  hand  in  the  organiza- 
tion, deposed  the  most  radical  of  all  the  provisional  governments 
in  September,  and  put  in  place  the  last  of  these  six  governments, 
one  destined  to  last  until  the  first  constitutional  government  came 
into  existence  in  July  1976.  An  attempted  coup  in  November  1975 
by  extremists  was  put  down  by  a  counterattack  led  by  moderates. 
The  arrest  of  several  hundred  radical  officers  and  the  dissolution 
of  COPCON  ended  the  radical  stage  of  the  Revolution  of  1974. 

The  military  remained  active  in  politics,  however.  Although  the 
African  wars  ended  when  the  colonies  were  granted  independence 
in  1975,  elements  of  the  military  were  determined  to  defend  the 
accomplishments  of  the  revolution.  The  MFA  arranged  with  the 
drafters  of  the  constitution  that  the  military  would  retain  guard- 
ian rights  over  the  new  democracy,  ensuring  that  it  remained  true 
to  "the  spirit  of  the  revolution."  The  constitution  of  1976  provid- 
ed for  a  strong  president  who,  with  the  help  of  a  military-dominated 
Council  of  the  Revolution,  could  veto  any  legislation  that  reversed 
such  revolutionary  actions  as  the  extensive  nationalizations  of  1975. 
General  Antonio  dos  Santos  Ramalho  Eanes,  the  hero  of  the 
November  1975  countercoup,  was  elected  the  new  democracy's  first 


xxvn 


president  in  1976.  An  austere  man  of  unquestioned  integrity,  Eanes 
could  be  trusted  to  preserve  the  revolution's  gains. 

The  first  regular  parliamentary  elections  were  held  in  April  1976. 
The  winner  was  the  PS  with  35  percent  of  the  vote,  far  ahead  of 
its  competitors,  but  not  enough  for  an  absolute  majority  in  the  new 
unicameral  parliament,  the  Assembly  of  the  Republic.  With  its  lead- 
er Soares  as  prime  minister,  the  PS  formed  a  minority  government 
that  governed  for  eighteen  months.  When  it  fell  because  of  a  mo- 
tion of  censure,  the  PS  formed  a  governing  coalition  with  the  Chris- 
tian democrat  CDS  that  lasted  another  year.  Enormous  social  and 
economic  problems,  including  the  return  of  an  estimated  600,000 
Portuguese  settlers  and  demobilized  soldiers  from  Africa,  combined 
with  factionalism  and  personal  rivalries,  were  the  undoing  of  these 
first  two  constitutional  governments.  Eanes  then  appointed  a  se- 
ries of  nonpartisan  caretaker  governments  composed  of  experts  and 
technocrats  in  the  hope  that  they  could  better  deal  with  pressing 
issues  and  govern  until  the  next  parliamentary  elections  mandat- 
ed by  the  constitution  for  1980. 

Each  of  the  three  caretaker  governments  failed,  and  Eanes  was 
forced  to  call  for  early  elections  in  December  1979,  even  though 
parliamentary  elections  would  still  have  to  be  held  the  following 
year.  The  Democratic  Alliance  (Alianca  Democratica — AD),  a  coa- 
lition of  the  PPD — now  called  the  Social  Democrat  Party  (Partido 
Social  Democrata — PSD) — the  CDS,  and  several  smaller  groups, 
won  the  election,  but  without  a  majority.  The  coalition  formed  a 
government  with  the  forceful  and  charismatic  PSD  leader  Sa  Car- 
neiro  as  prime  minister.  The  AD  won  the  October  1980  election, 
as  well,  and  governed  Portugal  until  1983.  New  elections  were  called 
that  year  because  the  AD,  without  the  leadership  of  Sa  Carneiro, 
who  had  died  in  a  December  1980  plane  crash,  had  disintegrated, 
and  no  effective  government  could  be  formed. 

During  its  time  in  power,  however,  the  AD  coalition  had  effect- 
ed some  far-reaching  constitutional  amendments  that  strengthened 
the  system  of  parliamentary  government.  With  the  support  of  the 
PS,  which  gave  the  AD  the  required  two-thirds  majorities,  con- 
stitutional amendments  were  passed  in  1982  that  weakened  the  pow- 
er of  the  president  and  strengthened  both  the  prime  minister  and 
the  legislature.  The  presidency  remained  an  essential  governing 
institution,  but  the  balance  of  political  power  shifted  to  favor  the 
cabinet  and  the  legislature,  as  in  most  other  Western  democracies. 
A  further  amendment  ended  the  military's  guardianship  over  the 
new  democracy.  The  amendment  eliminated  the  Council  of  the 
Revolution,  through  which  the  military  had  frequently  vetoed  legis- 
lation, and  replaced  it  with  the  Constitutional  Court,  which  functions 


xxvin 


in  the  same  manner  as  similar  bodies  in  other  parliamentary 
democracies.  President  Eanes,  easily  reelected  in  late  1980  for  a 
second  five-year  term,  signed  the  amendments  into  law,  although 
he  opposed  them  because  they  reduced  the  president's  powers  and 
returned  the  military  to  the  barracks. 

After  the  1983  parliamentary  elections,  the  PS  formed  a  coali- 
tion government  with  the  PSD.  The  huge  losses  stemming  from 
the  many  firms  nationalized  during  the  revolution,  the  enormous 
expansion  of  the  numbers  of  those  employed  by  the  state,  the  ef- 
fects of  the  two  oil-price  hikes  of  the  1970s,  and  the  flight  of  much 
entrepreneurial  talent  from  Portugal  had  left  the  economy  in  a 
desperate  state.  Inflation  was  as  high  as  30  percent  a  year,  and 
many  workers  had  real  earnings  lower  than  those  of  the  early  1970s. 
In  addition,  many  companies  were  in  such  financial  straits  that 
wages  were  often  months  in  arrears. 

No  government  had  been  able  to  deal  with  these  economic 
problems  in  a  meaningful  way.  The  AD  and  PS  combination  that 
had  effected  some  vital  constitutional  changes  was  not  able  to  amend 
the  constitutional  provisions  that  declared  the  revolution's  nation- 
alizations irreversible.  In  addition,  the  country's  labor  laws  in 
essence  guaranteed  employees  jobs  for  life  and  made  rational  de- 
ployment of  labor  nearly  impossible.  Given  these  circumstances, 
the  PS-PSD  government  had  to  make  some  very  difficult  decisions 
and  became  unpopular  as  the  economy  worsened.  The  alliance, 
troubled  also  by  personal  rivalries,  collapsed  in  early  1985. 

The  PSD  began  its  political  ascent  in  the  1985  parliamentary 
elections.  As  the  senior  partner  in  the  coalition  and  with  its  leader 
Soares  as  prime  minister,  the  PS  was  blamed  by  voters  for  the 
failures  of  the  fallen  government;  it  polled  only  20.8  percent  of  the 
vote,  compared  with  36.3  percent  in  1983.  Despite  its  participa- 
tion in  the  government,  the  PSD  won  more  votes  than  ever  be- 
fore, 29.9  percent,  and  for  the  first  time  was  the  party  with  the 
most  parliamentary  seats.  Much  of  the  PSD's  success  was  due  to 
its  new  leader,  Anibal  Cavaco  Silva,  who  waged  a  clever  campaign 
and  presented  his  party  in  a  new  light.  His  personal  qualities  of 
austerity,  probity,  and  competence  appealed  to  many  Portuguese, 
who  saw  in  him,  an  economist  and  former  minister  of  finance,  some- 
one who  could  deal  with  the  country's  serious  problems. 

Cavaco  Silva  formed  a  minority  single-party  government  with 
himself  as  prime  minister  and  managed  to  remain  in  power  for 
nearly  a  year  and  a  half.  He  was  fortunate  in  that  painful  economic 
decisions  made  by  the  previous  government  began  to  bear  fruit  dur- 
ing his  time  in  office.  Portugal's  accession  to  the  EC  at  the  beginning 
of  1986  also  benefited  the  country;  the  first  of  the  organization's 


xxix 


extensive  aid  packages  began  to  improve  Portugal's  backward  in- 
frastructure almost  immediately.  When  a  motion  of  censure  brought 
down  the  PSD  government  in  the  spring  of  1987,  Soares,  elected 
president  in  early  1986,  decided  to  call  new  elections  in  July  1987 
rather  than  form  another  weak  single-party  or  coalition  government. 

The  improving  economy  and  the  feeling  on  the  part  of  many 
Portuguese  that  the  PSD  was  taking  their  country  in  the  right  direc- 
tion allowed  the  party  to  win  an  absolute  parliamentary  majority 
in  the  national  elections  of  1987.  The  50.2  percent  of  the  vote  gave 
the  party  a  solid  parliamentary  majority,  the  first  in  the  new  de- 
mocracy, and  permitted  the  formation  of  a  strong  single-party 
government.  Cavaco  Silva's  government  also  became  the  first  to 
serve  out  the  entire  four- year  legislative  term.  In  1991  Cavaco  Sil- 
va  led  his  party  to  a  second  victory  in  which  it  again  won  more 
than  50  percent  of  the  vote  and  135  seats  in  the  230-seat  parliament. 

For  many  observers,  the  PSD's  electoral  successes  and  the  sta- 
bility of  the  Cavaco  Silva  government  indicated  that  Portugal's  new 
democracy,  the  Second  Republic  as  it  is  often  called,  had  at  last 
taken  root.  During  the  first  decade  of  the  new  political  system,  there 
were  numerous  weak  governments,  and  four  national  elections  were 
called  because  no  effective  governing  coalitions  were  available.  This 
instability  caused  some  observers  to  fear  that  Portugal's  second  at- 
tempt at  parliamentary  democracy  might  eventually  prove  as  un- 
successful as  was  the  First  Republic. 

The  Second  Republic  was  more  fortunate  than  the  First  Republic 
in  several  regards,  however.  Despite  its  serious  problems,  Portu- 
gal had  come  to  enjoy  a  much  greater  prosperity  and  a  higher  lev- 
el of  education  than  in  the  first  decades  of  the  century.  As  a  result, 
the  Portuguese  were  better  able  to  understand  public  affairs  than 
in  the  past.  In  addition,  the  new  government  possessed  a  greater 
legitimacy  because  it  was  based  on  universal  suffrage  and  high  rates 
of  voter  participation.  Portugal  was  also  lucky  to  have  a  number 
of  capable  politicians  committed  to  establishing  parliamentary 
democracy.  Also  vital  was  the  willingness  of  the  military  to  abide 
by  the  laws  of  the  new  republic.  All  of  these  factors  contributed 
to  the  eventual  success  of  the  new  political  system. 

However  healthy  Portuguese  democracy  was  by  the  1990s,  it  still 
exhibited  some  shortcomings.  Factionalism,  whether  caused  by 
ideology  or  personal  ambition,  was  still  noticeable.  Strict  party  dis- 
cipline ensured  a  degree  of  party  unity,  but  party  "barons"  some- 
times put  personal  welfare  before  that  of  their  parties.  Small  parties 
centered  around  an  individual  were  less  common  than  in  the  past, 
but  in  the  1985  elections  a  big  winner  was  a  short-lived  group 
pledged  to  President  Eanes.  The  parties  sometimes  overshadowed 


xxx 


the  Assembly  of  the  Republic  as  centers  of  political  power,  but  in- 
ternal reforms,  increased  support  staff,  and  an  evolving  institu- 
tional ethos  had  increased  that  body's  performance  to  the  benefit 
of  parliamentary  democracy. 

By  the  early  1990s,  Portuguese  democracy  appeared  to  be  mov- 
ing to  a  two-party  system  consisting  of  the  PSD  and  the  PS.  The 
two  parties  together  won  nearly  80  percent  of  the  vote  in  the  1991 
national  elections  and  between  them  controlled  90  percent  of  the 
seats  in  parliament.  As  of  early  1993,  there  was  no  reason  to  think 
this  dominance  would  be  upset  in  the  near  future. 

The  PSD,  in  power  since  early  1980  through  coalitions  with  par- 
ties first  to  its  right,  then  to  its  left,  and  then  through  both  minority 
and  majority  single-party  governments,  gradually  came  to  occupy 
a  large  place  in  the  middle  of  the  political  spectrum.  Generally, 
the  PSD  held  views  similar  to  those  advocated  by  liberal  Republi- 
cans in  the  United  States.  Anibal  Cavaco  Silva,  the  party's  leader 
since  1985,  remained  very  popular  with  Portuguese  voters,  and 
the  government  he  formed  after  the  October  1991  elections  was 
expected  to  remain  in  power  for  the  entire  legislative  period  sched- 
uled to  end  in  late  1995. 

Portugal's  other  leading  political  party,  the  PS,  had  lost  its  early 
dominance  but  far  outdistanced  its  nearest  rivals,  the  PCP  and  the 
CDS.  The  PS  had  been  troubled  by  leadership  problems  and  in- 
ept campaigns  since  Soares  resigned  as  its  head  to  campaign  for 
the  presidency  in  the  mid-1980s.  However,  it  renamed  dominant 
in  many  areas  and  won  the  1989  local  elections.  The  PS  had  gradu- 
ally moved  to  the  center  of  the  political  spectrum,  having  long  aban- 
doned the  fierce  advocacy  of  socialism  that  characterized  it  in  the 
mid-1970s.  Indeed,  by  the  early  1990s,  its  positions  on  main  is- 
sues were  often  hard  to  distinguish  from  those  of  the  PSD.  To  the 
right  of  the  PSD  was  the  Christian  democratic  CDS.  Long  led  by 
its  founder  Diogo  Freitas  do  Amaral,  who  nearly  won  the  presidency 
in  1986,  the  CDS  had  seen  a  steady  erosion  of  support  in  national 
elections  during  the  1980s.  The  party  was  last  part  of  a  govern- 
ment in  early  1983,  and  only  a  weakening  of  the  PSD  seemed  likely 
to  bring  it  back  into  power  as  a  coalition  partner. 

The  only  major  political  party  not  regarded  as  a  wholehearted 
supporter  of  liberal  democracy  was  the  PCP.  Parties  to  its  right 
never  saw  the  PCP  as  a  suitable  coalition  partner,  however,  and 
after  the  constitution  of  1976  became  effective,  it  was  never  part 
of  any  cabinet.  The  PCP  had  many  supporters  in  some  southern 
areas,  both  rural  and  industrial,  but  rival  parties  were  making  head- 
way even  in  these  traditional  strongholds.  The  PCP  remained  reso- 
lutely Stalinist  even  into  the  1990s,  expelling  members  who  sought 


xxxi 


to  reform  it.  The  PCP's  share  of  votes  declined  during  the  1980s, 
and  by  the  1991  election  it  had  lost  half  its  support.  This  decline 
and  an  aging  membership  suggested  that  the  PCP  was  condemned 
to  political  marginality. 

The  first  decade  of  the  Second  Republic  was  marked  by  frequent 
political  missteps  and  failures;  the  decade  was  also  a  very  difficult 
one  for  Portugal's  economy,  and  in  some  years  there  were  real 
declines  in  both  wages  and  production.  This  situation  was  a  pain- 
ful contrast  to  the  accelerated  rates  of  growth  between  1960  and 
1973  when  the  Salazar-Caetano  regime  had  allowed  partial  eco- 
nomic liberalization  and  increased  foreign  investment.  Growth  end- 
ed, however,  when  the  revolution's  extensive  nationalizations  and 
the  subsequent  mismanagement  of  the  government's  large  hold- 
ings were  exacerbated  by  the  global  recession  caused  by  the  oil  price 
hikes  of  1973  and  1979. 

Austerity  measures  undertaken  in  the  mid-1980s  and  large  trans- 
fers of  financial  aid  to  Portugal  by  the  EC  led  to  a  sustained  peri- 
od of  growth  in  the  latter  half  of  the  1980s  and  early  1990s  that 
was  among  the  best  achieved  by  member  countries  of  the  Organi- 
sation for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development  (OECD— 
see  Glossary).  Growth  was  further  strengthened  by  substantial  direct 
foreign  investment  (US$15  billion  in  the  1989-92  period)  and  the 
government's  sales  of  many  companies  nationalized  during  the  revo- 
lution (nearly  US$6  billion  in  the  same  period).  However  favora- 
ble these  trends  were,  during  the  remainder  of  the  1990s  the 
resourcefulness  of  Portugal's  businesspeople  and  politicians  will  be 
seriously  challenged  by  long-term  structural  problems  in  Portu- 
gal's economy  and  its  complete  opening  by  1995  to  competition 
from  more  efficient  rivals  in  the  EC. 

Portugal's  agricultural  sector  is  only  one-half  to  one-fourth  as 
productive  as  those  of  most  other  EC  member  states,  despite  US$2 
billion  of  EC  funds  that  had  been  invested  in  modernization  ef- 
forts between  1986  and  the  early  1990s.  Although  nearly  one-fifth 
of  the  work  force  was  engaged  in  agriculture  in  the  early  1990s, 
as  much  as  one-half  of  the  food  the  country  consumed  had  to  be 
imported.  The  small  fragmented  farms  of  the  north  are  probably 
too  small  for  efficient  farming.  Progress  has  been  made  in  introduc- 
ing modern  methods  and  equipment  to  the  large  estates  in  the  south, 
many  of  which  were  collective  farms  for  a  time,  but  as  a  whole 
the  sector  remains  overstaffed  and  backward. 

The  industrial  sector  consists  of  three  components:  modern 
foreign-owned  plants  that  produce  a  large  variety  of  sophisticated 
products;  a  large,  generally  unprofitable  state-owned  sector,  often 
concentrated  in  heavy  industry;  and  privately  owned,  often  quite 


xxxn 


small  and  labor-intensive  manufacturing  firms  that  have  managed 
to  survive  international  competition  because  of  protective  tariffs 
and  low  wages.  Modern  high-technology  companies  are  likely  to 
continue  to  prosper  in  the  1990s.  The  nationalized  sector  is  being 
privatized  by  the  Cavaco  Silva  government,  and  those  companies 
that  appear  to  have  a  promising  future  have  found  buyers.  Portu- 
gal's privately  owned  companies,  active  in  textiles,  shoe  manufac- 
turing, food  processing,  and  similar  activities,  are  likely  to  find  the 
1990s  difficult.  Often  too  small  to  purchase  or  use  modern  equip- 
ment and  slow  to  learn  the  latest  managerial  methods,  a  good  num- 
ber of  these  firms  might  well  not  survive  the  decade. 

Portugal's  service  sector  is  also  in  the  throes  of  meeting  the 
challenges  of  the  European  single  market  (see  Glossary).  Tourism 
remains  vital  to  the  country  and  is  being  upgraded.  The  financial 
sector  is  being  transformed  by  foreign  firms  that  have  set  up  com- 
panies in  Portugal.  The  many  banks  the  government  nationalized 
in  1975  were  being  sold  off  at  a  brisk  rate  in  the  early  1990s.  Por- 
tuguese banking  as  a  whole  is  overstaffed  and  underautomated, 
but  foreign  competition  is  forcing  the  sector  to  strive  for  greater 
efficiency. 

The  government  also  attempted  to  deal  with  legacies  of  both  the 
Salazar  regime  and  the  revolutionary  period  when  it  proposed 
streamlining  the  state  bureaucracy  and  reforming  labor  laws.  Per- 
sistence is  needed  to  deal  with  the  deadening  effects  of  a  too  large 
and  unresponsive  government  bureaucracy,  which  during  Salazar' s 
rule  had  come  to  regulate  much  of  everyday  life  and  then  was  ex- 
panded in  the  revolutionary  mid-1970s.  The  bureaucracy  takes 
many  of  the  state's  resources  and  through  extensive  regulation 
hinders  ordinary  citizens  in  their  dealings  with  state  authorities  and 
firms  in  the  conduct  of  their  business.  Labor  laws  passed  during 
the  revolution  made  dismissing  employees  very  difficult.  Attempts 
to  reform  employment  methods  have  had  only  moderate  success 
and  foundered  on  union  resistance.  Companies  have  circumvent- 
ed some  of  these  laws  by  resorting  to  fixed-term  work  contracts, 
but  personnel  management  practices  still  had  not  been  put  on  a 
wholly  rational  footing  as  of  the  early  1990s. 

Portugal  needs  a  well-trained  work  force  in  order  to  fare  well 
in  an  increasingly  competitive  world  economy.  More  Portuguese 
are  being  educated  than  ever  before,  even  at  the  university  level, 
which  long  had  been  reserved  for  a  tiny  elite.  It  was  estimated, 
however,  that  in  the  early  1990s  up  to  20  percent  of  Portuguese 
over  the  age  of  fifteen  were  illiterate.  This  illiteracy  rate  represented 
a  striking  improvement  over  the  1930  rate  of  68  percent  but  was 


xxxm 


still  much  higher  than  the  European  average.  Even  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  1990s,  most  Portuguese  had  had  only  five  or  six  years 
of  schooling,  and  the  percentage  of  children  attending  school  be- 
yond the  sixth  grade  was  below  the  EC  average  by  a  wide  margin. 
Morale  in  the  teaching  profession  was  also  low  because  teachers, 
like  most  state  employees,  were  very  poorly  paid.  EC  financial  trans- 
fers to  Portugal  to  raise  the  standards  of  the  country's  education 
were  significant,  but  much  remained  to  be  done  before  Portuguese 
schooling  corresponded  to  that  of  other  West  European  countries. 

The  severity  of  the  education  system's  problems  is  matched  by 
the  serious  problems  found  throughout  Portugal's  social  welfare 
and  health  systems.  A  comprehensive  social  welfare  system  had 
been  established  by  law  in  the  second  half  of  the  1970s  but  never 
fully  realized,  and  benefit  payments  and  pensions  were  set  at  a  very 
low  level.  Significant  progress  had  been  made  in  reducing  infant 
mortality  and  dealing  with  some  other  health  problems,  but  pub- 
lic health  care  is  not  generally  up  to  West  European  standards. 
The  country' s  backwardness  when  measured  against  the  rest  of  the 
EC,  with  the  exception  of  Greece,  is  striking  and  could  be  seen 
as  a  legacy  of  Portugal's  long  isolation  from  Europe  and  the  repres- 
sion of  the  Salazar  regime. 

Given  the  advances  made  in  the  two  decades  after  1974,  however, 
Portuguese  have  reasons  to  rejoice.  Poverty  remains,  especially  in 
rural  areas,  and  housing  is  frequently  inadequate,  but  the  popula- 
tion as  a  whole  lives  better  than  ever  before.  The  traditional  neces- 
sity to  emigrate  to  find  employment  that  had  forced  millions  of 
Portuguese  to  leave  their  country,  especially  in  the  1960s  when 
Paris,  in  effect,  became  the  second  largest  Portuguese  city,  has  less- 
ened greatly.  Many  Portuguese  can  now  find  employment  at  home, 
if  not  in  rural  regions  where  emigration  is  still  the  rule,  then  along 
the  coasts  where  most  Portuguese  have  come  to  live.  The  improved 
economy  also  gives  young  Portuguese  a  greater  choice  in  occupa- 
tions and  a  chance  for  social  mobility. 

A  modernizing  society  also  presents  Portuguese  with  oppor- 
tunities for  a  better  life.  Portuguese  society  is  more  varied  than 
during  the  Salazar  period.  The  free  media  have  brought  the  out- 
side world  to  the  Portuguese  and  engendered  a  greater  liberality 
in  how  people  lived.  Divorce  was  permitted  in  the  old  regime,  but 
abortion  not  legalized  until  1984.  The  change  went  through  de- 
spite the  opposition  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  which  has 
become  less  influential.  More  Portuguese  women  work  outside  the 
home,  and  if  occupational  opportunities  are  not  yet  as  great  as  those 
enjoyed  by  women  in  Northern  Europe,  Portuguese  women  are 
freer  than  their  mothers.  Until  1969,  for  example,  Portuguese 


xxxiv 


women  who  were  not  heads  of  households  had  to  have  the  permis- 
sion of  their  husbands  or  male  relatives  to  obtain  passports.  In  the 
new  Portugal,  in  contrast,  a  government  agency  existed  with  the 
purpose  of  preventing  discrimination  against  women. 

The  greatest  achievement  of  the  Portuguese  people  since  1974, 
however,  and  the  one  that  has  allowed  and  encouraged  other  posi- 
tive developments  and  permitted  confidence  about  the  future,  is 
the  consolidation  of  a  system  of  parliamentary  democracy,  the  first 
successful  such  system  in  the  country's  history.  It  is  hoped  that 
a  modern  political  system  responsive  to  the  people's  needs  will 
allow  the  Portuguese  to  prepare  for  the  next  century  in  a  united 
Europe. 


October  9,  1993  Eric  Solsten 


XXXV 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


Ruins  of  Roman  temple  in  Evora 


THE  HISTORY  OF  PORTUGAL  can  be  divided  into  seven 
broad  periods.  The  first  begins  in  the  Paleolithic  period  and  ex- 
tends to  the  formation  of  Portugal  as  an  independent  monarchy. 
During  this  period,  Lusitania,  that  portion  of  the  western  Iberian 
Peninsula  known  today  as  Portugal,  experienced  many  waves  of 
conquest  and  settlement  by  Iberos,  Phoenicians,  Greeks,  Romans, 
Swabians,  Visigoths,  and  Muslims.  Of  these  successive  waves  of 
people,  the  Romans  left  the  greatest  imprint  on  present  Portuguese 
society. 

The  second  broad  period  of  Portuguese  history  runs  from  the 
founding  of  the  monarchy  in  1128  until  the  disappearance  of  the 
House  of  Burgundy,  Portugal's  first  dynasty,  in  1383.  During  this 
period,  the  monarchy  was  established  and  expanded  by  reconquer- 
ing territory  from  the  Muslims  and  populating  those  lands  with 
Christian  settlers.  Consolidation  and  economic  development  were 
furthered  by  policies  designed  to  increase  agricultural  productivity. 

The  third  period  begins  with  the  founding  of  the  House  of  Avis, 
Portugal's  second  ruling  dynasty.  During  this  period,  Portugal  ex- 
perienced a  dynastic  struggle  that  brought  the  House  of  Avis  to 
the  throne,  a  series  of  wars  with  Castile  that  threatened  the  indepen- 
dence of  the  new  kingdom,  a  social  revolution,  a  second  dynastic 
struggle,  and  the  assertion  of  royal  supremacy  over  the  nobility. 

The  fourth  period  begins  in  1415  when  the  Portuguese  seized 
Ceuta  in  Morocco,  thus  beginning  Portugal's  maritime  expansion. 
During  this  period,  Portugal  explored  the  west  coast  of  Africa,  dis- 
covered and  colonized  Madeira  and  the  Azores,  opened  the  pas- 
sage to  India  around  Africa,  built  an  empire  in  Asia,  and  colonized 
Brazil. 

The  fifth  period,  that  of  imperial  decline,  begins  with  the  dy- 
nastic crisis  of  1580,  which  saw  the  demise  of  the  House  of  Avis. 
During  this  period,  Portugal  was  part  of  the  Iberian  Union  until 
1640,  when  the  monarchy  was  restored  and  a  new  dynasty,  the 
House  of  Braganca,  was  established.  This  period  includes  the  ad- 
vent of  absolutism  in  Portugal  and  ends  with  the  Napoleonic  in- 
vasions in  the  early  1800s. 

The  sixth  period,  the  period  of  constitutional  monarchy,  begins 
with  the  liberal  revolution  of  1820,  which  established  in  Portugal 
for  the  first  time  a  written  constitution.  This  period  includes  a  civil 
war  in  which  constitutionalists  triumphed  over  absolutists,  the  win- 
ning of  independence  by  Brazil,  and  the  exploration  of  Portugal's 


3 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

African  possessions.  It  ends  with  the  collapse  of  rotativismo  (see  Glos- 
sary) in  the  early  twentieth  century. 

The  final  period  begins  in  1910  with  the  downfall  of  the  monar- 
chy and  the  establishment  of  the  First  Republic.  This  period  in- 
cludes the  corporative  republic  of  Antonio  de  Oliveira  Salazar;  the 
collapse  of  that  regime  on  April  25,  1974;  and  the  establishment 
of  Portugal's  present  democratic  regime,  the  Second  Republic. 

Origins  of  Portugal 

The  Iberian  Peninsula  is  a  geographic  unit  encompassing  a  num- 
ber of  distinct  regions  distinguished  by  different  climate  and  geo- 
morphology,  such  as  Andalusia,  Castile,  Galicia,  and  Lusitania. 
Lusitania,  which  now  encompasses  the  modern  nation-state  of  Por- 
tugal, is  generally  set  off  from  the  other  regions  of  the  peninsula 
by  areas  of  higher  elevation  running  parallel  to  the  Atlantic  coast, 
greater  rainfall,  and  a  more  moderate  climate.  It  was  this  regional 
distinctiveness,  as  well  as  the  internal  geography  of  Lusitania — an 
area  largely  open  to  the  south  but  hemmed  in  by  mountains  on 
the  east  and  the  Atlantic  Ocean  on  the  west — that  gave  rise  to  a 
culturally  and  socially  distinct  people,  the  Portuguese,  and  later 
to  an  independent  nation-state,  Portugal. 

Early  Inhabitants 

Lusitania  has  been  inhabited  since  the  Paleolithic  period,  and 
implements  made  by  humans  have  been  found  at  widely  scattered 
sites.  The  Ice  Ages  did  not  touch  Lusitania,  and  it  was  only  after 
the  disappearance  of  the  Paleolithic  hunting  cultures  that  a  warmer 
climate  gave  rise  to  a  river-centered  culture.  At  the  end  of  the 
Paleolithic  period,  about  7000  B.C. ,  the  valley  of  the  Tagus  River 
(Rio  Tejo)  was  populated  by  hunting  and  fishing  tribes,  who  lived 
at  the  mouths  of  the  river's  tributaries.  These  people  left  huge 
kitchen  middens  containing  the  remains  of  shellfish  and  crustaceans, 
as  well  as  the  bones  of  oxen,  deer,  sheep,  horses,  pigs,  wild  dogs, 
badgers,  and  cats.  Later,  perhaps  about  3000  B.C.,  Neolithic  peo- 
ples constructed  crude  dwellings  and  began  to  practice  agriculture. 
They  used  polished  stone  tools,  made  ceramics,  and  practiced  a 
cult  of  the  dead,  building  many  funerary  monuments  called  dol- 
mens. By  the  end  of  the  Neolithic  period,  about  2000  B.C.,  regions 
of  cultural  differentiation  began  to  appear  among  the  Stone  Age 
inhabitants  of  the  Iberian  Peninsula,  one  of  these  being  the  western 
Megalithic  culture.  Present-day  Portugal  is  thus  rich  in  Megalithic 
neocropolises,  the  best  known  of  which  are  at  Palmela,  Alcalar, 
Reguengos,  and  Monsaraz. 


4 


Historical  Setting 


The  Paleolithic  and  Neolithic  periods  were  followed  by  the  Bronze 
Age  and  the  Iron  Age  (probably  between  1500  and  1000  B.C.). 
During  this  time,  the  Iberian  Peninsula  was  colonized  by  various 
peoples.  One  of  the  oldest  were  the  Ligures,  about  whom  little  is 
known.  Another  were  the  Iberos,  thought  to  have  come  from  North 
Africa.  The  Iberos  were  a  sedentary  people  who  used  a  primitive 
plow,  wheeled  carts,  had  writing,  and  made  offerings  to  the  dead. 

Phoenicians,  Greeks,  and  Carthaginians 

In  the  twelfth  century  B.C. ,  Phoenicians  arrived  on  the  west  coast 
of  the  Iberian  Peninsula  in  search  of  metals  and  founded  trading 
posts  at  Cadiz,  Malaga,  and  Seville.  They  traded  with  the  peoples 
of  the  interior,  taking  out  silver,  copper,  and  tin  and  bringing  in 
eastern  trade  goods.  Between  the  eighth  century  and  sixth  century 
B.C.,  successive  waves  of  Celtic  peoples  from  central  Europe  in- 
vaded the  western  part  of  the  peninsula,  where  the  topography  and 
climate  were  well  suited  to  their  herding-farming  way  of  life.  They 
settled  there  in  large  numbers  and  blended  in  with  the  indigenous 
Iberos,  giving  rise  to  a  new  people  known  as  Celtiberians.  Their 
settlements  were  hilltop  forts  called  castros,  many  vestiges  of  which 
remain  in  northern  Portugal. 

Later,  during  the  seventh  century  B.C.,  Greeks  arrived  and 
founded  several  colonies,  including  Sargunto  on  the  Mediterrane- 
an coast  and  Alcacer  do  Sal  on  the  Atlantic  coast.  During  the  fifth 
century  B.C.,  the  Carthaginians  replaced  the  Phoenicians  and 
closed  the  Straits  of  Gibraltar  to  the  Greeks.  The  Carthaginians 
undertook  the  conquest  of  the  peninsula  but  were  only  able  to  per- 
manently occupy  the  territory  in  the  south  originally  controlled  by 
their  Phoenician  and  Greek  predecessors.  The  Carthaginian  oc- 
cupation lasted  until  the  defeat  of  Carthage  by  the  Romans  in  the 
third  century  B.C. 

The  Romans  made  the  former  Carthaginian  territory  into  a  new 
province  of  their  expanding  empire  and  conquered  and  occupied 
the  entire  peninsula.  This  invasion  was  resisted  by  the  indigenous 
peoples,  the  stiffest  resistance  coming  from  the  Lusitanians  who 
lived  in  the  western  part  of  the  peninsula.  The  Lusitanians  were 
led  by  warrior  chieftains,  the  most  powerful  of  whom  was  Viriato. 
Viriato  held  up  the  Roman  invasion  for  several  decades  until  he 
was  murdered  in  his  bed  by  three  of  his  own  people  who  had  been 
bribed  by  the  Romans.  His  death  brought  the  Lusitanian  resistance 
to  an  end,  and  Rome  relatively  quickly  conquered  and  occupied 
the  entire  peninsula.  The  Portuguese  have  claimed  Viriato  as  the 
country's  first  great  national  hero. 


5 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 
Romanization 

After  the  conquest  was  completed,  the  Romans  gathered  the  in- 
digenous peoples  into  jurisdictions,  each  with  a  Roman  center  of 
administration  and  justice.  Olissipo  (present-day  Lisbon)  served 
as  the  administrative  center  of  Roman  Portugal  until  the  found- 
ing of  Emerita  (present-day  Merida,  Spain)  in  A.D.  25.  By  the 
beginning  of  the  first  century  A.D. ,  Romanization  was  well  under- 
way in  southern  Portugal.  A  senate  was  established  at  Ebora 
(present-day  Evora);  schools  of  Greek  and  Latin  were  opened;  in- 
dustries such  as  brick  making,  tile  making,  and  iron  smelting  were 
developed;  military  roads  and  bridges  were  built  to  connect  ad- 
ministrative centers;  and  monuments,  such  as  the  Temple  of  Di- 
ana in  Evora,  were  erected.  Gradually,  Roman  civilization  was 
extended  to  northern  Portugal,  as  well.  The  Lusitanians  were  forced 
out  of  their  hilltop  fortifications  and  settled  in  bottom  lands  in  Ro- 
man towns  (citanias). 

The  citanias  were  one  of  the  most  important  institutions  imposed 
on  Lusitania  during  the  Roman  occupation.  It  was  in  the  citanias 
that  the  Lusitanians  acquired  Roman  civilization:  they  learned  Lat- 
in, the  lingua  franca  of  the  peninsula  and  the  basis  of  modern  Por- 
tuguese; they  were  introduced  to  Roman  administration  and 
religion;  and  in  the  third  century,  when  Rome  converted  to  Chris- 
tianity, so  did  the  Lusitanians.  The  Roman  occupation  left  a  pro- 
found cultural,  economic,  and  administrative  imprint  on  the  entire 
Iberian  Peninsula  that  remains  to  the  present  day. 

Germanic  Invasions 

In  406  the  Iberian  Peninsula  was  invaded  by  Germanic  peoples 
consisting  of  Vandals,  Swabians,  and  Alans,  anon-Germanic  people 
of  Iranian  stock  who  had  attached  themselves  to  the  Vandals.  With- 
in two  years,  the  invaders  had  spread  to  the  west  coast.  The  Swa- 
bians were  primarily  herders  and  were  drawn  to  Galicia  because 
the  climate  was  similar  to  what  they  had  left  behind.  The  Vandals 
settled  to  the  north  of  Galicia  but  soon  left  with  the  remnants  of 
the  Alans  for  the  east.  After  the  departure  of  the  Vandals,  the 
Swabians  moved  southward  and  settled  among  the  Luso-Romans, 
who  put  up  no  resistance  and  assimilated  them  easily.  The  urban 
life  of  the  citanias  gave  way  to  the  Swabian  custom  of  dispersed 
houses  and  smallholdings,  a  pattern  that  is  reflected  today  in  the 
land  tenure  pattern  of  northern  Portugal.  Roman  administration 
disappeared.  The  capital  of  Swabian  hegemony  was  present-day 
Braga,  but  some  Swabian  kings  lived  in  the  Roman  city  of  Cale 
(present-day  Porto)  at  the  mouth  of  the  Rio  Douro.  The  city  was 


6 


Historical  Setting 


a  customs  post  between  Galicia  and  Lusitania.  Gradually,  the  city 
came  to  be  called  Portucale,  a  compound  oiportus  (port)  and  Cale. 
This  name  also  referred  to  the  vast  territory  to  the  immediate  north 
and  south  of  the  banks  of  the  river  upstream  from  the  city. 

With  large  parts  of  the  peninsula  now  outside  their  control,  in 
415  the  Romans  commissioned  the  Visigoths,  the  most  highly 
Romanized  of  the  Germanic  peoples,  to  restore  Rome's  hegemony. 
The  Visigoths  forced  the  Vandals  to  sail  for  North  Africa  and  defeat- 
ed the  Swabians.  The  Swabian  kings  and  their  Visigothic  over- 
lords held  commissions  to  govern  in  the  name  of  the  emperor;  their 
kingdoms  were  thus  part  of  the  Roman  Empire.  Latin  remained 
the  language  of  government  and  commerce.  The  Visigoths,  who 
had  been  converted  to  Christianity  in  the  fifth  century,  decided 
to  organize  themselves  into  an  independent  kingdom  with  their  cap- 
ital at  Toledo.  The  kingdom  was  based  on  the  principle  of  abso- 
lute monarchy,  each  sovereign  being  elected  by  an  assembly  of 
nobles.  Visigothic  kings  convoked  great  councils  made  up  of  bishops 
and  nobles  to  assist  in  deciding  ecclesiastical  and  civil  matters. 
Visigoths  gradually  fused  with  the  Swabians  and  Hispano-Romans 
into  a  single  politico-religious  entity  that  lasted  until  the  eighth  cen- 
tury, when  the  Iberian  Peninsula  fell  under  Muslim  domination. 

Muslim  Domination 

In  7 1 1  Iberia  was  invaded  by  a  Muslim  army  commanded  by 
Tariq  ibn  Ziyad.  The  last  Visigothic  king,  Rodrigo,  tried  to  repel 
this  invasion  but  was  defeated.  The  Muslims  advanced  to  Cordo- 
ba and  then  to  Toledo,  the  Visigothic  capital.  The  last  resistance 
of  the  Visigoths  was  made  at  Merida,  which  fell  in  June  713  after 
a  long  siege.  In  the  spring  of  714,  a  Muslim  army  commanded 
by  Musa  ibn  Nusair  marched  to  Saragossa  and  then  to  Leon  and 
Astorga.  Evora,  Santarem,  and  Coimbra  fell  by  716.  Thus,  within 
five  years,  the  Muslims  had  conquered  and  occupied  the  entire 
peninsula.  Only  a  wedge  of  wet,  mountainous  territory  in  the  ex- 
treme northwest  called  Asturias  remained  under  Christian  control. 

In  Lusitania  land  was  divided  among  Muslim  troops.  How- 
ever, bad  crops  and  a  dislike  for  the  wet  climate  put  an  end  to 
the  short-lived  Muslim  colonization  along  the  Rio  Douro.  Mus- 
lims preferred  the  dry  country  below  the  Tagus  River  because 
it  was  more  familiar,  especially  the  Algarve,  an  area  of  present- 
day  Portugal  where  the  Muslim  imprint  remains  the  strongest. 
The  Muslim  aristocracy  settled  in  towns  and  revived  urban  life; 
others  fanned  out  across  the  countryside  as  small  farmers.  The 
Visigothic  peasants  readily  converted  to  Islam,  having  only  been 


7 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

superficially  Christianized.  Some  Visigothic  nobles  continued  to 
practice  Christianity,  but  most  converted  to  Islam  and  were  con- 
firmed by  the  Muslims  as  local  governors.  Jews,  who  were  always 
an  important  element  in  the  urban  population,  continued  to  exer- 
cise a  significant  role  in  commerce  and  scholarship. 

Al  Andalus,  as  Islamic  Iberia  was  known,  flourished  for  250 
years,  under  the  Caliphate  of  Cordoba.  Nothing  in  Europe  ap- 
proached Cordoba's  wealth,  power,  culture,  or  the  brilliance  of 
its  court.  The  caliphs  founded  schools  and  libraries;  they  cultivated 
the  sciences,  especially  mathematics;  they  introduced  arabesque 
decoration  into  local  architecture;  they  explored  mines;  they  de- 
veloped commerce  and  industry;  and  they  built  irrigation  systems, 
which  transformed  many  arid  areas  into  orchards  and  gardens.  Fi- 
nally, the  Muslim  domination  introduced  more  than  600  Arabic 
words  into  the  Portuguese  language. 

The  Golden  Age  of  Muslim  domination  ended  in  the  eleventh 
century  when  local  nobles,  who  had  become  rich  and  powerful, 
began  to  carve  up  the  caliphate  into  independent  regional  city-states 
(taifas),  the  most  important  being  the  emirates  of  Badajoz,  Merida, 
Lisbon,  and  Evora.  These  internecine  struggles  provided  an  op- 
portunity for  small  groups  of  Visigothic  Christians,  who  had  taken 
refuge  in  the  mountainous  northwest  of  the  peninsula,  to  go  on 
the  offensive  against  the  Muslims,  thus  beginning  the  Christian 
Reconquest  of  Iberia. 

Christian  Reconquest 

Although  their  empire  had  been  defeated  by  the  Muslim  on- 
slaught, individual  Visigothic  nobles  resisted,  taking  refuge  in  the 
mountain  stronghold  of  Asturias.  As  early  as  737,  the  Visigothic 
noble  Pelayo  took  the  offensive  and  defeated  the  Muslims  at 
Covadonga,  for  which  he  was  proclaimed  king  of  Asturias,  later 
Leon.  Subsequent  kings  of  Asturias-Leon,  who  claimed  succession 
from  Visigothic  monarchs,  were  able  to  retake  Braga,  Porto,  Viseu, 
and  Guimaraes  in  northern  Portugal,  where  they  settled  Chris- 
tians around  strongholds.  For  200  years,  this  region  was  a  buffer 
zone  across  which  the  frontier  between  Christians  and  Muslims 
shifted  back  and  forth  with  the  ebb  and  flow  of  attack  and  coun- 
terattack. 

The  creation  of  Portugal  as  an  independent  monarchy  is  clearly 
associated  with  the  organization  of  the  military  frontier  against 
the  Muslims  in  this  area.  This  buffer  zone  between  Christian  and 
Muslim  territory  was  constantly  being  reorganized  under  counts  ap- 
pointed by  the  kings  of  Leon.  The  territory  known  as  Portucalense 


3 


Historical  Setting 


was  made  a  province  of  Leon  and  placed  under  the  control  of 
counts,  who  governed  with  a  substantial  degree  of  autonomy 
because  the  province  was  separated  from  Leon  by  rugged  moun- 
tains. 

In  1096  Alfonso  VI,  king  of  Leon,  gave  hereditary  title  to  the 
province  of  Portucalense  and  Coimbra  as  dowry  to  the  crusader- 
knight  Henry,  brother  of  the  duke  of  Burgundy,  upon  his  mar- 
riage to  the  king's  illegitimate  but  favorite  daughter,  Teresa. 
Although  Henry  was  to  be  sovereign  in  Portucalense,  it  was  recog- 
nized by  all  parties  that  he  held  this  province  as  a  vassal  of  the 
Leonese  king.  Henry  set  up  his  court  at  Guimaraes  near  Braga. 
He  surrounded  himself  with  local  barons,  appointed  them  to  the 
chief  provincial  offices,  and  rewarded  them  with  lands.  Bound  by 
the  usual  ties  of  vassal  to  suzerain,  Henry  was  expected  to  be  loyal 
to  Alfonso  and  render  him  service  whenever  required.  Until  Al- 
fonso's death  in  1109,  Henry  dutifully  carried  out  his  feudal  obli- 
gations by  attending  royal  councils  and  providing  military  assistance 
in  the  king's  campaigns  against  the  Muslims.  Alfonso's  death 
plunged  the  kingdom  of  Leon  into  a  civil  war  among  Aragonese, 
Galician,  and  Castilian  barons  who  desired  the  crown.  Count  Henry 
carefully  stayed  neutral  during  this  struggle  and  gradually  stopped 
fulfilling  his  feudal  obligations.  When  he  died  in  1 1 12,  his  wife  Tere- 
sa inherited  the  county  and  initially  followed  her  husband's  policy 
of  nonalignment. 

The  victor  in  the  struggle  for  the  Leonese  crown  was  Alfonso 
VII,  who,  when  he  ascended  the  throne,  decided  to  assert  his  suzer- 
ainty over  Teresa,  his  aunt,  and  her  consort,  a  Galician  noble- 
man named  Fernando  Peres.  Teresa  refused  to  do  homage  and 
was  forced  into  submission  after  a  six- week  war  in  1127.  Her  bar- 
ons, who  saw  their  fortunes  and  independence  declining,  took  this 
opportunity  to  align  themselves  with  her  son  and  the  heir  to  the 
province,  Afonso  Henriques,  who  had  armed  himself  as  a  knight. 
Supported  by  the  barons  and  lower  nobility,  Afonso  Henriques 
rebelled  against  his  mother's  rule.  On  July  24,  1128,  he  defeated 
Teresa's  army  at  Sao  Mamede  near  Guimaraes  and  expelled  her 
to  Galicia,  where  she  died  in  exile.  Afonso  Henriques  thus  gained 
control  of  the  province  of  Portucalense,  or  Portugal,  as  it  was  known 
in  the  vernacular. 

Formation  of  the  Monarchy 

Afonso  Henriques  was  a  robust,  visionary  young  man  of  about 
twenty  years  of  age  when  he  acquired  control  of  the  province  of 
Portugal.  He  was  anxious  to  free  himself  from  Leon  and  establish 


9 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

his  own  kingdom.  Consequently,  he  invaded  Galicia  and  defeated 
Fernando  Peres  and  the  Galician  barons  at  the  Battle  of  Cerneja. 
This  action  brought  a  response  from  Alfonso  VII,  who  had  in  the 
meantime  proclaimed  himself  emperor.  He  ordered  the  Galician 
barons  to  make  war  on  Afonso  Henriques,  who,  threatened  by  Mus- 
lims from  the  south  recently  reinvigorated  by  the  Almohads  from 
Morocco,  made  peace  with  Alfonso  VII  in  1137  at  Tuy. 

Afonso  Henriques  Becomes  King 

After  the  peace  of  Tuy,  Afonso  Henriques  temporarily  turned 
his  attention  to  the  Muslim  threat  in  the  south.  In  1 139  he  struck 
deep  into  the  heart  of  Al  Andalus  and  defeated  a  Muslim  army 
at  Ourique,  a  place  in  the  Alentejo.  After  this  battle,  Afonso  Hen- 
riques began  to  be  referred  to  in  documents  as  king.  In  1140  he 
renewed  his  claim  on  southern  Galicia,  which  he  invaded.  This 
action  again  sparked  a  reaction  by  Alfonso  VII  who,  in  return, 
marched  on  Portugal.  The  two  armies  met  at  Arcos  de  Valdevez 
and  engaged  in  a  joust  won  by  the  Portuguese  knights.  Afonso  Hen- 
riques's  self-proclamation  as  king  was  finally  recognized  in  1143 
at  the  Conference  of  Samora  when  Alfonso  VII  recognized  him 
as  such,  although,  because  he  was  an  emperor,  Alfonso  VII  still 
considered  Afonso  Henriques  his  vassal. 

Territorial  Enlargement 

Afonso  Henriques  was  a  brilliant  military  commander  and  dur- 
ing his  reign  reconquered  more  Muslim  territory  than  any  other 
of  the  Christian  kings  on  the  peninsula.  He  established  his  capital 
at  Coimbra,  and  as  early  as  1135  he  built  a  castle  at  Leiria.  In 
1147  he  took  advantage  of  a  series  of  religious  rebellions  among 
the  Muslims,  and,  with  the  help  of  a  passing  fleet  of  English,  Flem- 
ish, and  German  crusaders  bound  for  Palestine,  captured  Lisbon 
after  a  seventeen- week  siege.  Continued  internecine  fighting  among 
the  Muslims,  Lisbon's  strategic  location,  and  additional  help  from 
passing  fleets  of  crusaders  eventually  allowed  Afonso  Henriques 
to  advance  across  the  Tagus  and  capture  and  hold  large  sections 
of  the  Alentejo.  As  a  result  of  this  vigorous  prosecution  of  the  recon- 
quest,  the  pope  officially  recognized  Afonso  Henriques  as  king  of 
Portugal  in  1 179  and  granted  him  all  conquered  lands  over  which 
neighboring  kings  could  not  prove  rights.  At  his  death  in  1185, 
Afonso  Henriques  had  carved  out  an  officially  recognized  Christian 
kingdom  that  extended  well  into  Muslim  Iberia. 

Sancho  I  (r.  1 185-121 1),  Afonso  Henriques 's  son  and  heir,  contin- 
ued to  enlarge  the  realm.  In  1189  he  captured  the  Muslim  castle 


10 


Afonso  Henriques,  founder  and  first  king  of  Portugal  (r.  11 39-85) 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Portugal,  Washington 


i  1 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

at  Alvor,  the  city  of  Silves,  and  the  castle  at  Albufeira.  These 
territories  however,  were  retaken  by  the  Muslims  and  had  to  be 
reconquered  by  his  son  and  heir,  Afonso  II  (r.  121 1-23).  With  the 
help  of  his  brother-in-law,  Alfonso  VIII  of  Castile,  Afonso  retook 
territory  in  the  Alentejo,  fighting  major  battles  at  Navas  de  Tolo- 
sa  in  1212  and  Alcacer  do  Sal  in  1217.  Sancho  II  (r.  1223-48) 
conquered  additional  territory  in  the  Alentejo  and  carried  the 
Reconquest  into  the  Algarve,  where  Muslim  armies  were  defeat- 
ed at  Tavira  and  Cacela  in  1238.  The  Reconquest  was  completed  by 
Afonso  III  (r.  1248-79)  in  1249  when  he  attacked  and  defeated  an 
isolated  enclave  of  Muslims  ensconced  at  Faro  in  the  Algarve.  This 
last  battle,  which  extended  Portuguese  territory  to  the  sea,  estab- 
lished the  approximate  territorial  limits  Portugal  has  had  ever  since 
(see  fig.  2). 

Settlement  and  Cultivation 

The  rapid  advance  of  Afonso  Henriques  from  Coimbra  to  Lis- 
bon created  a  vast,  relatively  uninhabited  tract  of  land  between 
north  and  south.  The  repopulation  of  this  deserted  territory  with 
Christian  settlers  began  immediately.  Afonso  Henriques  invited 
many  of  the  crusaders  to  remain  after  the  siege  of  Lisbon  and 
granted  them  lands,  especially  at  Atouguia  and  Lourinha,  as  pay- 
ment for  their  help.  In  addition,  Sancho  I  directed  most  of  his  time 
and  energy  to  settling  the  new  monarchy,  for  which  he  is  known 
as  The  Populator  (O  Povoador).  He  sent  agents  abroad,  especially 
to  Burgundy,  the  land  of  his  ancestors,  to  recruit  colonists,  who 
settied  at  various  places,  but  especially  at  Vila  dos  Francos  (present- 
day  Azambuja).  Such  communities  spread  rapidly  throughout  the 
realm  thanks  to  the  protection  of  the  king,  who  saw  in  them  not 
only  a  way  to  populate  the  kingdom  but  also  a  way  to  diminish 
the  power  of  the  nobility. 

The  vacant  territory  between  north  and  south  was  also  filled  by 
various  monastic  orders,  including  the  Franciscans,  Dominicans, 
and  Benedictines.  The  Roman  Catholic  Church  granted  charters 
to  the  orders  to  build  monasteries  and  cultivate  the  surrounding 
land.  The  most  successful  of  these  orders  were  the  Benedictines, 
who  built  a  monastery  at  Alcobaca  and  planted  the  surrounding 
land  in  orchards  that  remain  to  this  day.  This  monastery  grew  to 
over  5,000  monks  and  occupied  a  huge  territory  stretching  from 
Leiria  in  the  north  to  Obidos  in  the  south,  including  the  port-town 
of  Pederneira  (present-day  Nazare). 

In  the  valley  of  the  Tagus  and  to  the  south,  settling  commu- 
nities of  unarmed  colonists  was  too  dangerous;  therefore,  early 


12 


Historical  Setting 


Portuguese  kings  called  upon  religious-military  orders  to  fortify, 
cultivate,  and  defend  this  territory.  Founded  in  the  early  twelfth 
century  to  wage  war  against  infidels  and  protect  pilgrims,  these 
religious  orders  of  knights  had  become  powerful  in  the  Holy  Land 
and  in  many  areas  of  Europe.  Several  orders  of  knight-monks  were 
given  huge  tracts  of  land  in  the  Tagus  Valley  and  the  Alentejo  as 
recompense  for  their  military  service  to  the  king  at  a  time  when 
he  had  no  standing  army  on  which  to  rely.  The  most  successful 
of  these  knight-monks  was  the  Order  of  the  Templars,  which  was 
granted  territory  on  the  Rio  Zezere,  a  tributary  of  the  Tagus,  where 
they  built  a  fortified  monastery  in  Templar  fashion  at  Tomar.  The 
Templar  domain  gradually  grew  to  encompass  territory  from  To- 
mar in  the  north  to  Santarem  in  the  south  and  as  far  west  as  the 
lands  of  the  Benedictines  at  Alcobaca.  As  more  territory  in  the 
Alentejo  was  reconquered,  additional  orders  were  granted  tracts 
of  land  to  defend  and  cultivate.  The  Order  of  the  Hospitallers  was 
given  land  surrounding  Crato;  the  Order  of  the  Calatravans  (later 
Avis)  was  established  at  Evora;  and  the  Order  of  the  Knights  of 
Saint  James  was  given  lands  at  Palmela. 

Political  and  Social  Organization 

Afonso  Henriques  and  subsequent  Portuguese  kings  ruled  by 
divine  right  until  a  constitutional  monarchy  was  established  in  the 
early  nineteenth  century.  The  early  kings  were  assisted  by  a  royal 
council  composed  of  the  king's  closest  advisers  and  friends  from 
among  the  higher  nobility  and  clergy.  The  royal  council  was  staffed 
by  a  number  of  functionaries,  such  as  the  chancellor,  who  kept  the 
royal  seal  and  was  the  highest  official  in  the  land;  the  notary,  who 
gave  advice  on  legal  matters;  the  scribe,  who  wrote  the  king's  let- 
ters and  documents  (many  early  kings  were  illiterate);  and  the 
majordomo,  who  commanded  the  king's  household  guard. 

When  questions  of  exceptional  importance  arose,  the  king  would 
convoke  the  cortes,  an  expanded  royal  council  that  brought  together 
representatives  of  the  three  estates  of  the  realm:  nobility,  clergy, 
and  commoners.  The  first  such  cortes  was  called  in  1211  at  Coim- 
bra  in  order  to  legitimate  the  succession  of  Afonso  II,  Afonso  Hen- 
riques's  grandson,  to  the  throne,  as  well  as  to  approve  certain  laws 
of  the  realm.  After  the  Cortes  of  Leiria,  which  was  convoked  in 
1254  by  Afonso  III,  representatives  of  the  self-governing  settier  com- 
munities began  to  attend.  Cortes  were  convoked  at  the  king's  will 
and  were  limited  to  advising  on  issues  raised  by  the  king  and 
presenting  petitions  and  complaints.  Resolutions  passed  by  the 
cortes  did  not  have  the  force  of  law  unless  they  were  countersigned 


13 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  2.  The  Reconquest,  1185-1250 

by  the  king.  Later,  the  cortes  came  to  limit  the  power  of  the  king 
somewhat,  but  gradually  the  monarchy  became  absolute.  The  cortes 
was  convoked  less  and  less  frequently,  and  in  1697  it  stopped  be- 
ing called  altogether. 

As  to  territorial  administration,  northern  Portugal  was  subdivided 
into  estates  {terras),  each  a  quasi-autonomous  political  and  economic 
unit  of  feudal  suzerainity  governed  by  a  nobleman  (donatdrio)  whose 
title  to  the  land  was  confirmed  by  the  king.  Religious  administration 


14 


Historical  Setting 


was  carried  out  by  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  which  divided 
the  north  into  bishoprics  and  parishes.  In  the  south,  administra- 
tion was  the  responsibility  of  the  military  orders:  Templars, 
Hospitallers,  Calatravans,  and  Knights  of  Saint  James.  In  the 
center,  administration  fell  to  the  monastic  orders:  Benedictines, 
Franciscans,  and  Dominicans.  The  towns  and  communities  of  set- 
tlers, as  well  as  a  certain  amount  of  land  around  them,  were  owned 
by  the  king,  who  was  responsible  for  regulating  them. 

The  settler  communities  (concelhos)  were  each  recognized  by  a 
royal  franchise,  which  granted  local  privileges,  set  taxes,  specified 
rights  of  self-government,  and  controlled  the  relationship  among 
the  crown,  the  concelho,  and  the  donatdrio,  if  the  community  was 
located  within  a  terra.  Each  concelho  governed  itself  through  an 
assembly  chosen  from  among  its  resident  "good  men"  (homens-bons); 
that  is,  freemen  not  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  church,  the 
local  donatdrio,  or  the  special  statutes  governing  Muslims  and  Jews. 
Each  concelho  was  administered  by  a  local  magistrate,  who  was  as- 
sisted by  several  assessors  selected  from  among  the  homens-bons  of 
the  assembly.  The  tutelary  power  of  the  king  was  represented  by 
an  official  {alcalde)  appointed  by  the  king,  who  was  empowered  to 
intervene  in  local  matters  on  the  king's  behalf  when  necessary  to 
ensure  justice  and  good  administration.  The  degree  of  self- 
government  of  these  communities  gradually  declined  as  the  monar- 
chy became  increasingly  centralized. 

During  its  formative  stages,  Portugal  had  three  social  classes: 
clergy,  nobility,  and  commoners.  By  virtue  of  the  religious  fervor 
of  the  times,  the  clergy  was  the  predominant  class.  It  was  the  most 
learned,  the  wealthiest,  and  occupied  the  highest  office  in  the  realm: 
the  chancellorship.  The  clergy  comprised  two  categories;  the  bishops 
and  parish  priests  of  the  regular  church  hierarchy  and  the  abbots 
and  monks  of  the  religious  and  military  orders.  These  two  categories 
were  divided  into  the  higher  clergy  (bishops  and  abbots)  and  low 
clergy  (priests  and  monks).  The  clergy  enjoyed  various  privileges 
and  rights,  such  as  judgment  in  ecclesiastical  courts  according  to 
canon  law,  exemption  from  taxes,  and  the  right  to  asylum  from 
civil  authorities  within  their  churches. 

The  next  social  class,  the  nobility,  owed  its  privileged  position 
above  all  to  its  collaboration  with  the  king  in  the  reconquest.  The 
highest  level  among  the  nobility  was  made  up  of  the  "rich  men" 
{homens-ricos)  who  owned  the  largest  feudal  estates,  had  private 
armies,  and  had  jurisdiction  over  great  expanses  of  territory.  Be- 
low them  were  the  lesser  nobility,  who  held  smaller  estates  and  were 
entrusted  with  the  defense  of  castles  and  towns  but  did  not  have 


15 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

private  armies  or  administrative  jurisdiction.  Below  the  lesser  no- 
bility were  the  highest  class  of  free  commoners,  the  villein-knights, 
who  maintained  their  own  horses  and  weaponry,  serving  the  king 
as  required.  These  knights  were  often  encouraged  to  settle  in  or 
near  the  colonial  communities  of  the  frontier  where  they  were  grant- 
ed special  privileges  and  organized  raids  against  the  Muslims  for 
their  own  profit. 

The  commoners  formed  the  bottom  of  the  social  strata.  Among 
them,  the  serfs  were  the  lowest  group.  The  most  numerous  group, 
they  were  bound  by  heredity  to  the  estates  of  the  crown,  nobility, 
and  clergy,  where  they  were  occupied  in  agriculture,  stockrais- 
ing,  and  village  crafts.  Serfs  could  become  free  by  serving  as 
colonists  in  the  underpopulated  territories  in  the  south.  The  se- 
cond lowest  group  consisted  of  the  clients,  that  is,  freemen  who 
did  not  own  property  and  received  protection  from  an  overlord  in 
exchange  for  service.  Above  the  clients  were  the  villein-knights, 
who  formed  a  stratum  that  merged  the  commoners  with  the  nobil- 
ity. Finally,  outside  the  basic  social  structure  were  the  slaves,  usually 
Muslim  captives,  who  tilled  the  lands  of  the  military  orders  in  the 
Alentejo. 

Control  of  the  Royal  Patrimony 

Disputes  over  land  ownership  became  an  increasing  source  of 
conflict  between  the  crown  and  the  upper  nobility  and  clergy.  Land 
ownership  was  important  because  the  crown's  main  source  of 
revenue  was  taxes  from  the  great  estates  and  tithes  from  lands  owned 
directly  by  the  king.  But  in  medieval  Portugal,  hereditary  title  to 
land  did  not  exist  in  any  developed  legal  form.  As  the  original  grants 
of  land  were  obscured  by  passing  years,  many  of  the  upper  nobility 
and  clergy  of  the  church  came  to  believe  that  they  held  their  land 
by  hereditary  right.  Thus,  each  time  a  new  king  ascended  the 
throne,  the  crown  had  to  review  land  grants  and  titles  in  order  to 
assert  its  authority  and  reclaim  land  removed  from  the  king's 
patrimony. 

The  first  king  to  confront  this  problem  was  Afonso  II,  who  dis- 
covered when  he  ascended  the  throne  in  1211  that  his  father,  San- 
cho  I,  had  willed  much  of  the  royal  patrimony  to  the  church.  In 
1216,  after  a  lengthy  legal  battle  between  the  crown  and  the  Holy 
See  over  various  provisions  of  Sancho's  will,  the  pope  recognized 
Afonso  IPs  right  to  maintain  the  royal  patrimony  intact.  From  1216 
until  1221 ,  the  Portuguese  crown  asserted  this  general  right  by  re- 
quiring those  who  had  received  donations  from  previous  kings  to 
apply  for  letters  of  confirmation.  The  crown  thus  created  the  power 


16 


Historical  Setting 


to  review  grants  to  nobles  and  ecclesiastical  bodies. 

The  process  of  confirmation  was  carried  a  step  further  when  the 
king  appointed  royal  commissions  authorized  to  investigate  land 
ownership,  especially  in  the  north  where  much  of  the  feudal  land 
tenure  predated  the  creation  of  the  monarchy.  These  inquiries,  as 
they  were  called,  gathered  evidence  from  the  oldest,  most  ex- 
perienced residents  in  each  locale  without  consulting  local  nobles 
or  church  officials.  They  revealed  a  large  number  of  abuses  and 
improper  extensions  of  boundaries,  as  well  as  conspiracies  to  defraud 
the  crown  of  income.  The  first  inquiry  found  that  the  church  was 
the  biggest  expropriator  of  royal  property.  The  archbishop  of  Braga, 
angered  by  the  activities  of  the  commissions,  excommunicated  Afon- 
so  II  in  1219.  The  king  responded  by  seizing  church  property  and 
forcing  the  archbishop  to  flee  Portugal  for  Rome.  In  1220  the  pope 
confirmed  the  king's  excommunication  and  relieved  him  of  his  oath 
of  fealty  to  the  Holy  See.  This  dispute  between  church  and  crown 
ended  temporarily  when  the  excommunicated  king  died  in  1223 
and  his  chancellor  arranged  an  ecclesiastical  burial  in  exchange  for 
the  return  of  the  seized  church  property  and  the  promise  that  fu- 
ture inquiries  would  respect  canon  law. 

The  conflict  between  the  church  and  crown  concerning  property 
was  finally  resolved  during  the  reign  of  King  Dinis  (r.  1279-1325). 
In  1284  Dinis  launched  a  new  round  of  inquiries  and  in  the  fol- 
lowing year  promulgated  deamortization  laws,  which  prohibited 
the  church  and  religious  orders  from  buying  property  and  required 
that  they  sell  all  property  purchased  since  the  beginning  of  his  reign. 
For  this  action  against  the  church,  Dinis,  like  his  father  and  grand- 
father, was  excommunicated.  This  time,  however,  the  king  refused 
to  pledge  obedience  to  the  pope  and  established  once  and  for  all 
the  power  of  the  Portuguese  crown  to  regulate  and  control  the  royal 
patrimony. 

This  power  allowed  Dinis  to  nationalize  the  most  powerful  and 
wealthy  of  the  military-religious  orders.  The  Calatravans,  found- 
ed in  Castile,  had  in  effect  become  Portuguese  when  the  town  of 
Avis  was  bestowed  upon  them  by  Afonso  and  they  became  known 
as  the  Order  of  Avis.  In  1288  the  Knights  of  Saint  James,  also  of 
Castilian  origin,  became  Portuguese  when  the  order  elected  its  own 
master.  In  1312,  as  the  result  of  an  investigation  into  the  activities 
of  the  Templars,  Pope  Clement  V  suppressed  this  order  and  trans- 
ferred their  vast  properties  in  Portugal  to  the  Hospitallers.  Dinis 
was  able  to  prevail  upon  the  pope  to  give  this  wealth  to  a  newly 
founded  Portuguese  military- religious  order  called  the  Order  of 
Christ,  which  was  initially  situated  at  Castro  Marim  but  was  later 


17 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

moved  to  Tomar.  After  nationalization,  most  of  these  orders  be- 
came chivalric  bodies  of  quasi-celibate  landowners.  The  Order  of 
Avis,  however,  remained  on  a  war  footing  and  contributed  sig- 
nificantly to  Portugal's  independence  from  Castile.  The  Order  of 
Christ  also  remained  a  military-religious  order,  and  its  wealth  was 
later  used  by  Prince  Henry  the  Navigator  to  pay  for  the  voyages 
of  discovery. 

Development  of  the  Realm 

Having  established  the  boundaries  of  the  national  territory,  as- 
serted their  authority  over  the  church  and  nobility,  and  gained  con- 
trol over  the  resources  of  the  military  orders,  Portuguese  kings  began 
to  turn  their  attention  to  the  economic,  cultural,  and  political  de- 
velopment of  the  realm.  This  was  especially  true  of  King  Dinis, 
who  is  referred  to  by  the  Portuguese  as  The  Farmer  (O  Lavrador) 
because  of  his  policies  designed  to  encourage  agricultural  develop- 
ment. He  decreed  that  nobles  would  not  lose  their  standing  if  they 
drained  wetlands,  settled  colonists,  and  planted  pine  forests.  The 
pine  forests  were  to  produce  timber  for  the  shipbuilding  industry, 
which  Dinis  also  encouraged,  the  crown  having  already  at  that  time 
begun  to  look  toward  the  sea  for  future  fields  of  conquest. 

Dinis  chartered  many  settlements  of  colonists  on  lands  conquered 
from  the  Muslims  and  authorized  the  holding  of  fairs  and  markets 
in  each  of  these,  thereby  creating  a  national  economy.  He  laid  the 
basis  for  Portugal's  naval  tradition  by  bringing  the  Genoese,  Em- 
manuele  Pessagno  (Manuel  Pecanha  in  Portuguese)  to  Portugal 
in  1317  to  be  the  hereditary  admiral  of  the  Portuguese  navy.  Mari- 
time commerce  was  encouraged  when  Dinis  negotiated  an  agree- 
ment with  Edward  II  of  England  in  1 303  that  permitted  Portuguese 
ships  to  enter  English  ports  and  guaranteed  security  and  trading 
privileges  for  Portuguese  merchants.  Dinis  provided  the  impetus 
for  the  development  of  Portuguese  as  a  national  language  when 
he  decreed  that  all  official  documents  of  the  realm  were  to  be  writ- 
ten in  the  vernacular.  Finally,  Dinis  stimulated  learning  when,  in 
1290,  he  founded  an  academic  center  similar  to  the  "General 
Studies"  centers  that  had  been  created  in  Leon  and  Aragon.  In 
1308  this  center  was  moved  to  Coimbra  where  it  remained,  ex- 
cept for  a  brief  time  between  from  1521  to  1537,  and  became  the 
University  of  Coimbra,  Portugal's  premier  institution  of  higher 
learning. 

Afonso  IV  (r.  1325-57)  continued  his  father's  development  poli- 
cies. He  also  improved  the  administration  of  justice  by  dismissing 
corrupt  local  judges  and  replacing  them  with  judges  he  appointed. 
When  a  large  Muslim  army  landed  on  the  peninsula  in  1340, 


18 


Historical  Setting 


Afonso  IV  allied  himself  with  the  king  of  Castile,  Alfonso  XI,  and 
the  king  of  Aragon  in  order  to  do  battle  against  this  threat  to  the 
Christian  kingdoms.  Afonso  sent  a  fleet  commanded  by  Manuel 
Pecanha  to  Cadiz  and  marched  overland  himself  to  meet  the  Mus- 
lim army,  which  was  destroyed  at  the  Battie  of  Salado. 

When  Afonso's  grandson  and  heir,  Fernando  I  (r.  1367-83), 
ascended  the  throne,  the  economic  productivity  of  the  country  had 
been  so  greatly  disrupted  by  a  plague  that  had  ravaged  the  coun- 
try in  1348  and  1349  that  he  found  it  necessary  to  take  measures 
to  stimulate  food  production.  In  1375  he  promulgated  a  decree, 
called  the  Law  of  the  Sesmarias,  which  obliged  all  landowners  to 
cultivate  unused  land  or  sell  or  rent  it  to  someone  who  would.  The 
law  also  obligated  all  who  had  no  useful  occupation  to  work  the 
land.  This  decree  had  its  intended  effect  and  led  to  the  rebuilding 
of  the  country's  wealth.  Fernando  also  stimulated  the  development 
of  the  Portuguese  merchant  fleet  by  allowing  all  shipbuilders  who 
constructed  ships  of  more  than  100  tons  to  cut  timber  from  the  royal 
forests  and  by  exempting  the  owners  of  these  ships  from  the  full 
tax  on  the  exports  and  imports  of  their  first  voyage.  He  also  estab- 
lished a  maritime  insurance  company  into  which  owners  of  mer- 
chant ships  of  more  than  fifty  tons  paid  2  percent  of  their  profits 
and  from  which  they  received  compensation  for  shipwrecks. 

The  House  of  Avis 

When  Fernando  died  in  1383,  he  left  no  male  heir  to  the  throne. 
His  only  daughter,  Beatriz,  was  married  to  Juan  I,  king  of  Castile. 
The  marriage  writ  stipulated  that  their  offspring  would  inherit  the 
Portuguese  crown  if  Fernando  left  no  male  heir  and  that,  until  any 
children  were  born,  Portugal  would  be  ruled  by  a  regency  of  Fer- 
nando's  widow,  Leonor  Teles.  When  Fernando  died,  Leonor  as- 
sumed the  regency  in  accordance  with  the  marriage  writ.  The 
assumption  of  the  regency  by  the  queen  was  badly  received  in  many 
Portuguese  cities  because  Leonor  was  a  Castilian  and  considered 
an  interloper  who  intended  to  usurp  the  Portuguese  crown  for 
Castile  and  end  Portugal's  independence.  Leonor's  principal  rival 
for  control  of  the  throne  was  Joao,  the  master  of  the  Order  of  Avis 
and  illegitimate  son  of  Fernando's  father,  Pedro  I  (r.  1357-67).  On 
December  6,  1383,  Joao  broke  into  the  royal  palace  and  murdered 
Count  Andeiro,  a  Galician  who  had  been  Fernando's  chancellor. 
Leonor  Teles  fled  to  the  town  of  Alenquer,  the  property  of  the 
queens  of  Portugal.  She  appealed  to  Juan  I  for  help,  and  he  in- 
vaded Portugal  in  January  1384.  Leonor  abdicated  as  regent.  In 
Lisbon  the  people  proclaimed  Joao  governor  and  defender  of  the 


19 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

realm.  Joao  immediately  began  to  prepare  an  army  and  sent  a  mis- 
sion to  England  to  recruit  soldiers  for  his  cause. 

Wars  with  Castile 

The  bourgeoisie  of  Lisbon,  enriched  by  commerce,  decided  to 
support  Joao  and  donated  substantial  sums  for  war  expenses. 
Money  also  arrived  from  the  bourgeoisie  in  Porto,  Coimbra,  and 
Evora.  The  majority  of  the  nobility,  among  whom  national  senti- 
ment was  not  well  developed  and  feudal  customs  based  on  oaths 
of  vassalage  were  still  obeyed,  took  the  side  of  Juan  of  Castile,  which 
gave  him  the  support  of  fifty  castles.  A  few  nobles,  however,  in- 
cluding Alvaro  Pais,  Joao  Afonso,  and  Nun'Alvares  Pereira,  were 
more  attuned  to  national  sentiment  and  sided  with  Joao. 

In  March  1384,  Juan  marched  on  Lisbon,  which  he  besieged 
by  land  and  sea.  In  April,  in  the  Alentejo,  Nun'Alvares  Pereira 
defeated  the  Castilians  at  the  Battle  of  Atoleiros,  a  victory  that  result- 
ed from  the  new  military  tactic  of  forming  defensive  squares  from 
dismounted  cavalry  because  the  Portuguese  had  far  fewer  troops 
than  the  enemy.  The  siege  of  Lisbon  was  broken  after  seven  months 
by  an  outbreak  of  the  plague  in  the  Castilian  camp,  and  Juan 
retreated  to  Seville  to  prepare  another  invasion  the  following  year. 

The  retreat  of  the  Castilians  gave  Joao  an  opportunity  to  legiti- 
mate his  claim  to  the  throne.  In  March  1385,  a  cortes  was  sum- 
moned to  resolve  the  succession.  Joao's  case  was  argued  by  Joao 
das  Regras,  who  attacked  the  claims  of  the  various  pretenders  to 
the  throne.  On  April  6,  the  opposition  ended  and  Joao  was 
proclaimed  king  as  Joao  I  (r.  1385-1433).  The  new  king  named 
Nun'Alvares  Pereira  constable  of  Portugal.  At  the  same  time,  a 
contingent  of  English  longbowmen  began  to  arrive.  Nun'Alvares 
Pereira  marched  north  in  order  to  obtain  the  submission  of  Bra- 
ga,  Guimaraes,  and  other  places  loyal  to  Juan,  who  responded  by 
sending  an  army  to  attack  Viseu.  The  Portuguese  routed  this 
Castilian  force  at  Rancoso  using  the  same  new  military  tactic  that 
had  brought  them  victory  at  Atoleiros.  Juan,  nonetheless,  was  still 
intent  on  besieging  Lisbon  and  led  his  army  southward.  Joao  I  and 
Nun'Alvares  Pereira  decided  to  engage  Juan's  army  before  it  ar- 
rived in  the  capital.  The  two  armies  met  on  the  plain  of  Aljubar- 
rota  about  sixty  kilometers  north  of  Lisbon  on  August  14,  1385. 
Using  the  same  tactic  of  defensive  squares  of  dismounted  cavalry 
that  had  brought  them  success  in  previous  battles,  a  force  of  7,000 
Portuguese  annihilated  and  scattered  a  Castilian  army  of  32,000 
in  little  more  than  thirty  minutes  of  combat.  Although  additional 
battles  were  fought  and  final  peace  was  not  made  with  Castile 


20 


Historical  Setting 


until  October  1411,  the  Battle  of  Aljubarrota  secured  the  indepen- 
dence of  Portugal  for  almost  two  centuries. 

Anglo-Portuguese  Alliance 

English  aid  to  the  House  of  Avis  set  the  stage  for  the  coopera- 
tion with  England  that  would  be  the  cornerstone  of  Portuguese  for- 
eign policy  for  more  than  500  years.  In  May  1386,  the  Treaty  of 
Windsor  confirmed  the  alliance  that  was  born  at  Aljubarrota  with 
a  pact  of  perpetual  friendship  between  the  two  countries.  The  next 
year,  John  of  Gaunt,  duke  of  Lancaster,  son  of  Edward  III,  and 
father  of  Henry  IV,  landed  in  Galicia  with  an  expeditionary  force 
to  press  his  claim  to  the  Castilian  throne  with  Portuguese  aid.  He 
failed  to  win  the  support  of  the  Castilian  nobility  and  returned  to 
England  with  a  cash  compensation  from  the  rival  claimant. 

John  of  Gaunt  left  behind  his  daughter,  Philippa  of  Lancaster, 
to  marry  Joao  I  in  order  to  seal  the  Anglo-Portuguese  alliance.  By 
this  marriage,  celebrated  in  1387,  Joao  became  the  father  of  a  gener- 
ation of  princes  called  by  poet  Luis  de  Camoes  the  "marvelous 
generation,"  who  led  Portugal  into  its  golden  age.  Philippa  brought 
to  the  court  the  Anglo-Norman  tradition  of  an  aristocratic  educa- 
tion and  gave  her  children  good  educations.  Her  personal  quali- 
ties were  of  the  highest,  and  she  reformed  the  court  and  imposed 
rigid  standards  of  moral  behavior.  Philippa  provided  royal  patron- 
age for  English  commercial  interests  that  sought  to  meet  the  Por- 
tuguese desire  for  cod  and  cloth  in  return  for  wine,  cork,  salt,  and 
oil  shipped  through  the  English  warehouses  at  Porto.  Philippa' s 
sons  were  accomplished.  Her  eldest  son,  Duarte,  authored  moral 
works  and  became  king  in  1433;  Pedro,  who  traveled  widely 
and  had  an  interest  in  history,  became  regent  when  Duarte  died 
of  the  plague  in  1438;  Fernando,  who  became  a  crusader,  partici- 
pated in  the  attack  on  Tangiers  in  1437;  and  Henrique — Prince 
Henry  the  Navigator — became  the  master  of  the  Order  of  Avis  and 
the  instigator  and  organizer  of  the  early  voyages  of  discovery. 

Social  Revolution 

The  crisis  of  1383-85  that  brought  Joao  I  to  the  throne  was  not 
only  a  dynastic  revolution  but  also  a  social  one.  Joao  I  distrusted 
the  old  aristocracy  that  had  opposed  his  rise  to  power  and  promot- 
ed the  growth  of  a  new  generation  of  nobility  by  confiscating  the 
titles  and  properties  of  the  old  and  distributing  them  to  the  new. 
He  thus  formed  a  new  nobility  based  on  service  to  the  king. 

Joao  rewarded  members  of  the  urban  bourgeoisie  that  had  sup- 
ported his  cause  by  giving  them  positions  and  influence  and  by 
allowing  them  to  send  representatives  to  the  king's  royal  council. 


21 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Artisans  grouped  themselves  according  to  professions  into  guilds 
and  were  permitted  to  send  delegates  to  the  governing  chamber 
of  Lisbon,  where  they  were  actively  involved  in  the  administra- 
tion of  the  capital  and  other  cities.  The  king  also  surrounded  him- 
self with  skilled  legalists  who  professionalized  royal  administration 
and  extended  royal  jurisdiction  at  the  expense  of  the  old  aristocracy. 
This  new  class  of  bureaucrats,  having  studied  Roman  law  at  the 
university,  defended  the  Caesarist  principle  that  the  will  of  the  king 
had  the  force  of  law.  This  belief  encouraged  the  later  development 
of  absolutism  in  Portugal  and  pitted  the  king  against  the  landed 
nobility,  especially  the  old  aristocracy  that  wished  to  regain  its  lost 
power  and  privilege. 

Intradynastic  Struggle 

The  future  of  the  House  of  Avis  seemed  assured  by  the  presence 
of Joao' s  five  legitimate  sons,  but  the  king  also  provided  for  his 
illegitimate  children  as  he  had  been  provided  for  by  his  father.  Joao 
conferred  on  his  bastard  son  Afonso  the  hereditary  title  of  duke 
of  Braganca  and  endowed  him  with  lands  and  properties  that 
amounted  to  the  creation  of  a  state  within  a  state  supported  by  a 
huge  reserve  of  armed  retainers.  The  House  of  Braganca  accumu- 
lated wealth  to  rival  that  of  the  crown  and  eventually  assumed  the 
leadership  of  the  old  aristocracy  in  opposition  to  Avis. 

When  Joao  I  died  in  1433,  the  crown  was  assumed  by  his  eldest 
son,  Duarte,  who  died  five  years  later  of  the  plague.  Before  his 
death,  Duarte  convoked  a  cortes  in  order  to  legitimate  the  compi- 
lation of  Portuguese  royal  law,  but  the  work  was  not  completed 
until  the  reign  of  his  son,  Afonso,  and  is,  therefore,  named  the 
Afonsine  Ordinances.  He  also  declared  that  the  grants  of  land  so 
lavishly  awarded  by  his  father  to  his  supporters  would  have  to  be 
confirmed,  as  was  the  custom  at  the  start  of  each  reign. 

Afonso  was  six  years  old  when  his  father  died  and  his  mother, 
Queen  Leonor  of  Aragon,  assumed  the  regency.  There  was  oppo- 
sition to  the  assumption  of  all  authority  by  a  woman,  and  Leonor 
agreed  that  Duarte 's  brother,  Pedro,  should  become  regent.  This 
was  opposed  by  Afonso,  duke  of  Braganca,  the  eldest  illegitimate 
son  of  Joao  I.  Both  men  aspired  to  gain  influence  over  the  young 
king  by  marrying  him  to  their  daughters.  The  populace  of  Lisbon 
strongly  favored  Pedro  and  acknowledged  him  as  regent.  Pedro 
received  confirmation  for  his  regency  by  summoning  the  cortes  at 
Evora  and  paved  the  way  for  his  continuance  in  power  by  arrang- 
ing the  marriage  of  his  daughter  Isabel  to  the  young  king,  who, 
when  he  reached  his  majority  in  1446,  agreed  to  the  match  and 
asked  his  uncle  to  continue  the  regency. 


22 


Historical  Setting 


The  duke  of  Braganca  reasserted  his  ambitions  and  was  able  to 
influence  the  young  king  to  dismiss  Pedro  by  convincing  him  that 
his  uncle  was  plotting  to  seize  the  throne.  Pedro  was  banished  to 
his  estates.  When  rumors  of  a  plot  against  him  surfaced,  he  decided 
to  resist  and  marched  on  Lisbon,  where  he  had  the  support  of  the 
populace.  Pedro  was  met  by  the  troops  of  the  king  and  the  duke 
of  Braganca  at  the  Battle  of  Alfarrobeira  on  May  24,  1449,  where 
he  was  killed  and  his  army  defeated.  This  battle  resulted  in  the 
enlargement  of  the  property  and  wealth  of  the  illegitimate  line  of 
the  House  of  Avis,  which  allowed  it  to  enjoy  enormous  influence 
over  the  pliable  Afonso  V  until  his  death  in  1481. 

Assertion  of  Royal  Supremacy 

When  Afonso 's  son  and  heir,  Joao  II  (r.  1481-95),  assumed  the 
throne,  the  power  of  the  Bragancas  and  their  supporters  had  reached 
its  height.  The  new  king,  who  was  more  resolute  than  his  father, 
convoked  a  cortes  at  Evora,  where  he  imposed  a  new  written  oath 
by  which  nobles  swore  upon  their  knees  to  give  up  to  the  king  any 
castle  or  town  they  held  from  the  crown.  At  Evora  commoners 
complained  about  the  abuses  of  the  nobility  and  asked  for  the  abo- 
lition of  private  justice  and  the  correction  of  abuses  in  the  collec- 
tion of  taxes.  The  king  ordered  that  all  nobles  present  their  titles 
of  privilege  and  that  his  constables  be  admitted  to  their  estates  in 
order  to  investigate  complaints  concerning  administration. 

These  measures  provoked  a  reaction  by  the  nobility  led  by  the 
powerful  Fernando,  duke  of  Braganca,  who  conspired  against  the 
king  with  the  help  of  the  king  of  Castile.  Upon  learning  of  the  in- 
trigues of  Fernando,  the  king  accused  the  duke  of  treason  and  tried 
him  at  a  special  court  in  Evora.  He  was  sentenced  to  death  and 
beheaded  in  the  main  square  on  June  29,  1484.  The  king  confis- 
cated his  properties  and  those  of  his  accomplices,  some  of  whom 
were  also  killed,  while  others  fled  Portugal.  A  second  conspiracy 
was  hatched  by  the  duke  of  Viseu,  but  it,  too,  was  discovered,  and 
the  duke  was  killed,  perhaps  by  the  king  himself,  in  Setubal.  These 
events  established  the  supremacy  of  the  crown  over  the  nobility 
once  and  for  all. 

Maritime  Expansion 

The  maritime  expansion  of  Portugal  was  the  result  of  the  threat 
to  Mediterranean  commerce,  especially  the  trade  in  spices,  that 
had  developed  very  rapidly  after  the  crusades.  Spices  traveled  by 
various  overland  routes  from  Asia  to  the  Levant,  where  they  were 
loaded  aboard  Genoese  and  Venetian  ships  and  brought  to  Eu- 
rope. Gradually,  this  trade  became  threatened  by  pirates  and  the 


23 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Turks,  who  closed  off  most  of  the  overland  routes  and  subjected 
the  spices  to  heavy  taxes.  Europeans  sought  alternative  routes  to 
Asia  in  order  to  circumvent  these  difficulties. 

The  Portuguese  led  the  way  in  this  quest  for  a  number  of  rea- 
sons. First,  Portugal's  location  on  the  southwesternmost  edge  of 
the  European  landmass  placed  the  country  at  the  maritime  cross- 
roads between  the  Atlantic  and  the  Mediterranean.  Second,  Por- 
tugal was  by  the  fifteenth  century  a  compact,  unified  kingdom  led 
by  an  energetic,  military  aristocracy,  which,  having  no  more  ter- 
ritory on  the  peninsula  to  conquer,  sought  new  fields  of  action  over- 
seas. Third,  Portuguese  kings  were  motivated  by  a  deeply  held  belief 
that  their  role  in  history  was  as  the  standard-bearers  of  Christiani- 
ty against  the  Muslims.  Fourth,  Portugal's  kings  had,  since  the 
founding  of  the  monarchy,  encouraged  maritime  activities.  Dinis 
founded  the  Portuguese  navy,  and  Fernando  encouraged  the  con- 
struction of  larger  ships  and  founded  a  system  of  maritime  insur- 
ance. Finally,  Portugal  led  the  world  in  nautical  science,  having 
perfected  the  astrolabe  and  quadrant  and  developed  the  lantine- 
rigged  caravel,  all  of  which  made  navigating  and  sailing  the  high 
seas  possible. 

Early  Voyages 

Portugal's  maritime  expansion  began  in  1415  when  Joao  I  seized 
Ceuta  in  Morocco,  the  western  depot  for  the  spice  trade.  The  mili- 
tary campaign  against  Ceuta  was  launched  for  several  reasons.  First, 
war  in  Morocco  was  seen  as  a  new  crusade  against  the  Muslims 
that  would  stand  Portugal  well  with  the  church.  Second,  there  was 
a  need  to  suppress  Moroccan  pirates  who  were  threatening  Por- 
tuguese ships.  Third,  the  Portuguese  wanted  the  economic  benefit 
that  controlling  Ceuta' s  vast  market  would  bring  to  the  crown.  Fi- 
nally, the  campaign  against  Ceuta  was  seen  as  preparatory  to  an 
attack  on  Muslims  still  holding  Granada.  The  possession  of  Ceuta 
allowed  the  Portuguese  to  dominate  the  Straits  of  Gibraltar. 

After  the  conquest  of  Ceuta,  Prince  Henry  the  Navigator,  who 
had  participated  in  the  campaign  as  an  armed  knight,  settled  at 
Sagres  on  the  extreme  end  of  Cape  St.  Vincent,  where  in  1418 
he  founded  a  naval  school.  He  continued  to  direct  Portugal's  ear- 
ly maritime  activity.  As  the  master  of  the  Order  of  Christ,  Prince 
Henry  was  able  to  draw  on  the  vast  resources  of  this  group  to  equip 
ships  and  pay  the  expenses  of  the  early  maritime  expeditions.  Prince 
Henry  was  motivated  by  scientific  curiosity  and  religious  fervor, 
seeing  the  voyages  as  a  continuation  of  the  crusades  against  the 
Muslims  and  the  conversion  of  new  peoples  to  Christianity,  as  well 
as  by  the  desire  to  open  a  sea  route  to  India. 


24 


Monument  to  the  ~  ' ' 

Discoveries,  Lisbon  \ 
Courtesy  Embassy  of 
Portugal,  Washington 


Shortly  after  the  school  was  established,  two  of  Prince  Henry's 
captains  discovered  the  island  of  Porto  Santo,  and  the  following 
year  the  Madeira  Islands  were  discovered.  In  1427  Diogo  de  Silves, 
sailing  west,  discovered  the  Azores  archipelago,  also  uninhabited. 
Both  Madeira  and  Porto  Santo  were  colonized  immediately  and 
divided  into  captaincies.  These  were  distributed  to  Prince  Hen- 
ry's captains,  who  in  turn  had  the  power  to  distribute  land  to  set- 
tlers according  to  the  Law  of  the  Sesmarias. 

Prince  Henry's  plan  required  the  circumnavigation  of  Africa. 
His  early  voyages  stayed  close  to  the  African  coast.  After  repeated 
attempts,  Gil  Eanes  finally  rounded  Cape  Bojador  on  the  west  coast 
of  Africa  in  present-day  Western  Sahara  in  1434,  a  psychological, 
as  well  as  physical,  barrier  that  was  thought  to  be  the  outer  boundary 
of  the  knowable  world.  After  passing  Cape  Bojador,  the  explora- 
tion of  the  coast  southward  proceeded  very  rapidly.  In  1436  Gil 
Eanes  and  Afonso  Baldaia  arrived  at  the  Senegal  River,  which  they 
called  the  River  of  Gold  because  two  Africans  they  had  captured 
were  ransomed  with  gold  dust.  In  1443  Nuno  Tristao  arrived  at 
the  Bay  of  Arguin  off  the  coast  of  present-day  Mauritania.  These 
voyages  returned  African  slaves  to  Portugal,  which  sparked  an  in- 
terest in  the  commercial  value  of  the  explorations,  and  a  factory 
was  established  at  Arguin  as  an  entrepot  for  human  cargo.  In  1444 
Dinis  Dias  discovered  the  Cape  Verde  Islands,  then  heavily  forested, 
and  Nuno  Tristao  explored  the  mouth  of  the  Senegal  River.  In 


25 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

1445  Cape  Verde  was  rounded,  and  in  1456  Portuguese  arrived 
at  the  coast  of  present-day  Guinea.  The  following  year,  they  reached 
present-day  Sierra  Leone.  Thus,  when  Prince  Henry  died  in  1460, 
the  Portuguese  had  explored  the  coast  of  Africa  down  to  Sierra 
Leone  and  discovered  the  archipelagoes  of  Madeira,  the  Azores, 
and  the  Cape  Verde  Islands. 

Sea  Route  to  India 

After  the  death  of  Prince  Henry,  the  Portuguese  continued  to 
explore  the  coast  of  Africa,  but  without  their  earlier  singleness  of 
purpose.  A  dispute  had  arisen  among  the  military  aristocracy  over 
whether  Portugal  could  best  achieve  its  strategic  objectives  by  con- 
quering Morocco  or  by  seeking  a  sea  route  to  India.  Duarte  had 
continued  his  father's  Moroccan  policy  and  undertook  a  military 
campaign  against  Tangiers  but  was  unsuccessful.  Afonso  V  ordered 
several  expeditionary  forces  to  Morocco.  In  1458  he  conquered  Al- 
cazarquivir;  in  1471  he  took  Arzila,  followed  by  Tangiers  and 
Larache.  Afonso 's  successors  continued  this  policy  of  expansion 
in  Morocco,  especially  Manuel  I  (r.  1495-1521),  who  conquered 
Safim  and  Azamor.  The  Moroccan  empire  was  expensive  because 
it  kept  Portugal  in  a  constant  state  of  war;  therefore,  it  was  aban- 
doned by  Joao  III  (r. 1521-57),  except  for  Ceuta  and  Tangiers. 

In  1 469  Afonso  V  granted  to  Fernao  Gomes  a  monopoly  of  trade 
with  Guinea  for  five  years  if  he  agreed  to  explore  100  leagues  (about 
500  kilometers)  of  coast  each  year.  A  number  of  expeditions  were 
carried  out  under  this  contract.  In  1471  Portuguese  sailors  reached 
Mina  de  Ouro  on  the  Gold  Coast  (present-day  Ghana)  and  ex- 
plored Cape  St.  Catherine,  two  degrees  south  of  the  equator.  Mina 
de  Ouro  became  the  chief  center  for  the  gold  trade  and  a  major 
source  of  revenue  for  the  crown.  The  islands  of  Sao  Tome  and  Prin- 
cipe were  also  discovered  in  1471,  and  Fernao  do  P6  discovered 
the  island  that  now  bears  his  name  in  1474. 

During  the  reign  of  Joao  II,  the  crown  once  again  took  an  ac- 
tive role  in  the  search  for  a  sea  route  to  India.  In  1481  the  king 
ordered  a  fort  constructed  at  Mina  de  Ouro  to  protect  this  poten- 
tial source  of  wealth.  Diogo  Cao  sailed  farther  down  the  African 
coast  in  the  period  1482-84.  In  1487  a  new  expedition  led  by  Bar- 
tolomeu  Dias  sailed  south  beyond  the  tip  of  Africa  and,  after  hav- 
ing lost  sight  of  land  for  a  month,  turned  north  and  made  landfall 
on  a  northeast-running  coastline,  which  was  named  Terra  dos  Va- 
queiros  after  the  native  herders  and  cows  that  were  seen  on  shore. 
Dias  had  rounded  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope  without  seeing  it  and 
had  proven  that  the  Atlantic  connected  to  the  Indian  Ocean. 


26 


Arches  of  the  Royal  Cloister  at  the  Monastery  of  Santa  Maria  da  Vitdria,  Batalha 

Courtesy  Daniele  Kohler 
Monastery  of  Santa  Maria  da  Vitdria,  Batalha 
Courtesy  Walter  Opello 


27 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

In  the  meantime,  Joao  sent  Pero  da  Covilha  and  Afonso  de  Paiva, 
who  were  versed  in  warfare,  diplomacy,  and  Arabic,  on  a  mission 
in  search  of  the  mythical  Christian  kingdom  of  Prester  John. 
Departing  from  Santarem,  they  traveled  to  Barcelona,  Naples,  and 
the  island  of  Rhodes,  and,  disguised  as  merchants,  entered  Alex- 
andria. Passing  through  Cairo,  they  made  their  way  to  Aden,  where 
they  separated  and  agreed  to  meet  later  in  Cairo  at  a  certain  date. 
Afonso  de  Paiva  went  to  Ethiopia,  and  Pero  da  Covilha  headed 
for  Calicut  and  Goa  in  India  by  way  of  Ormuz,  returning  to  Cairo 
via  Sofala  in  Mozambique  on  the  east  coast  of  Africa.  In  Cairo 
he  learned  from  two  emissaries  sent  by  Joao  II  that  Afonso  de  Paiva 
had  died.  One  of  the  emissaries  returned  to  Portugal  with  a  letter 
containing  the  information  Pero  da  Covilha  had  collected  on  his 
travels.  Da  Covilha  then  left  for  Ethiopia  where  he  was  received 
by  the  emperor  but  not  allowed  to  leave.  He  settled  in  Ethiopia, 
married,  and  raised  a  family.  The  information  provided  in  his  letter 
complemented  the  information  from  the  expedition  of  Bartolomeu 
Dias  and  convinced  Joao  II  that  it  was  possible  to  reach  India  by 
sailing  around  the  southern  end  of  Africa.  He  died  during  prepa- 
rations for  this  voyage  in  1494. 

Manuel  I  assumed  the  throne  in  1495  and  completed  the  prepa- 
rations for  the  voyage  to  India.  On  July  8,  1497,  a  fleet  of  four 
ships  commanded  by  Vasco  da  Gama  set  sail  from  Belem  on  the 
outskirts  of  Lisbon.  The  expedition  was  very  carefully  organized, 
each  ship  having  the  best  captains  and  pilots,  as  well  as  handpicked 
crews.  They  carried  the  most  up-to-date  nautical  charts  and  naviga- 
tional instruments.  Vasco  da  Gama's  fleet  rounded  the  Cape  of 
Good  Hope  on  November  27,  1497,  and  made  landfall  at  Natal 
in  present-day  South  Africa  on  December  25.  The  fleet  then 
proceeded  along  the  east  coast  of  Africa  and  landed  at  Quelimane 
in  present-day  Mozambique  in  January  1498,  followed  by  Mom- 
basa in  present-day  Kenya.  An  Arab  pilot  directed  the  fleet  to  In- 
dia. After  sailing  for  a  month,  the  fleet  reached  Calicut  on  the 
Malabar  coast  in  southwest  India.  In  August,  after  sailing  to  Goa, 
the  fleet  left  for  Portugal,  arriving  in  September  1499,  two  years 
and  two  days  after  the  departure. 

In  1500  Manuel  organized  a  large  fleet  of  thirteen  ships  for  a 
second  voyage  to  India.  This  fleet  was  commanded  by  Pedro  Al- 
vares  Cabral  and  included  Bartolomeu  Dias,  various  nobles,  priests, 
and  some  1,200  men.  The  fleet  sailed  southwest  for  a  month, 
and  on  April  22  sighted  land,  the  coast  of  present-day  Brazil.  Cabral 
sent  a  ship  back  to  Lisbon  to  report  to  Manuel  his  discovery,  which 
he  called  Vera  Cruz.  The  fleet  recrossed  the  Atlantic  and  sailed 
to  India  around  Africa  where  it  arrived  on  September  13,  1500. 


28 


30 


Historical  Setting 


After  four  months  in  India,  Cabral  sailed  for  Lisbon  in  January 
1501 ,  having  left  a  contingent  of  Portuguese  to  maintain  a  factory 
at  Cochin  on  the  Malabar  coast  (see  fig.  3). 

Empire  in  Asia 

Having  discovered  the  sea  route  to  India,  Manuel  organized  suc- 
cessive fleets  to  that  region  in  order  to  establish  Portuguese  com- 
mercial hegemony.  In  1505  Francisco  de  Almeida  left  Lisbon  with 
a  fleet  of  22  ships  and  2,500  men,  1,500  of  whom  were  soldiers. 
Invested  with  the  title  of  viceroy  of  India,  Almeida  was  instructed 
to  conclude  alliances  with  Indian  rulers,  set  up  factories,  and  build 
forts  on  the  east  coast  of  Africa,  which  he  did  at  Mombasa  and 
at  Kilwa  in  present-day  Tanzania  before  arriving  in  India.  After 
his  arrival,  he  fortified  the  island  of  Angediva  and  Cochin.  He  im- 
posed a  system  of  licenses  on  trading  vessels  that  threatened  to  ruin 
the  Muslim  traders,  who  reacted  by  seeking  spices  in  Malacca  in 
present-day  Malaysia  and  the  Sunda  Islands  in  the  Malay  Ar- 
chipelago and  sailing  directly  to  the  Persian  Gulf,  bypassing  India. 

Almeida  sought  to  suppress  this  trade  and  secure  Portuguese  com- 
mercial hegemony.  He  was  joined  in  this  effort  by  two  more  fleets 
sent  from  Lisbon,  one  under  the  command  of  Tristao  da  Cunha 
and  the  other  under  Afonso  de  Albuquerque,  who  had  been  ap- 
pointed Almeida's  successor  as  viceroy.  Cunha  explored  Madagas- 
car and  the  coast  of  east  Africa,  occupied  the  island  of  Socotra  (now 
part  of  Yemen),  and  built  a  fort  at  the  mouth  of  the  Red  Sea,  be- 
fore sailing  to  India.  Albuquerque  ravaged  the  Oman  coast  and 
attacked  Ormuz,  the  great  entrepot  at  the  mouth  of  the  Persian 
Gulf,  where  he  began  constructing  a  fort. 

The  activities  of  the  Portuguese  motivated  the  Muslims  to  take 
military  action.  The  sultan  of  Egypt,  allied  with  the  Venetians  and 
Turks,  organized  a  large  armada  that  crossed  the  Indian  Ocean 
to  Diu,  where  it  was  engaged  by  a  Portuguese  fleet.  On  February 
2,  1509,  a  great  sea  battle  was  fought  and  the  sultan's  armada  de- 
stroyed. This  victory  assured  Portuguese  commercial  and  military 
hegemony  over  India  and  allowed  Portugal  to  extend  its  empire 
to  the  Far  East. 

Albuquerque  established  his  capital  at  Goa,  which  he  attacked 
and  occupied  in  1510.  In  1511  he  departed  for  the  conquest  of 
Malacca,  the  emporium  for  the  spice  trade  and  trade  with  China, 
which  he  accomplished  in  August  of  that  year.  After  returning  to 
Goa,  Albuquerque  made  plans  to  occupy  strategic  positions  in  the 
Persian  Gulf  and  Red  Sea.  On  his  first  expedition,  he  failed  to  take 
Aden  and  returned  to  Goa.  His  second  expedition,  which  was  to 
be  his  last,  attempted  to  conquer  Ormuz  and  Aden,  as  well  as  seize 


31 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Mecca.  During  this  expedition,  Albuquerque  fell  ill  and  returned 
to  Goa,  where  he  died  in  1515. 

When  Manuel  I  died  in  1521,  his  son  and  heir,  Joao  III,  sent 
expeditions  to  the  islands  of  Celebes,  Borneo,  Java,  and  Timor, 
all  part  of  the  Malay  Archipelago.  Relations  were  established  with 
Japan  after  the  visits  of  Francisco  Xavier  and  Fernao  Mendes  Pinto 
in  1549.  Portuguese  captains  founded  factories  in  China  and  took 
possession  of  Macau  in  1557. 

Colonization  of  Brazil 

The  growth  of  Portuguese  interests  in  the  Americas  was  slow, 
the  king  being  absorbed  with  establishing  Portuguese  hegemony 
in  Asia.  In  addition,  the  Treaty  of  Tordesillas  of  1494,  arranged 
by  Pope  Alexander  VI,  divided  the  unexplored  world  between  Spain 
and  Portugal  and  forbade  Portugal  from  exploring  beyond  a  merid- 
ian drawn  1 ,600  kilometers  miles  west  of  the  Cape  Verde  Islands. 
In  1502  Fernao  Noronha  was  given  a  three-year  commercial  mo- 
nopoly on  dyewood  in  return  for  exploring  300  leagues  (about  1 ,500 
kilometers)  of  the  Brazilian  coast  each  year.  During  the  last  years 
of  Manuel  Fs  reign,  the  first  colonists  were  sent  to  Brazil  to  estab- 
lish a  sugar  industry.  Additional  colonists  were  sent  during  the  reign 
of  Joao  III,  and,  in  1530,  Martim  Afonso  de  Sousa  was  named 
major  captain  of  Brazil  and  invested  with  the  power  to  distribute 
land  among  captains  or  donatdrios,  much  as  had  been  done  in 
Madeira  when  it  was  colonized  a  century  before.  These  captain- 
cies were  large  strips  of  land  that  extended  from  the  coast  into  the 
interior.  The  captains  settled  colonists  in  their  respective  captain- 
cies and  were  required  to  provide  them  protection  and  justice. 

Because  captaincies  were  independent  of  one  another  and  hence 
weak,  they  were  unable  to  defend  themselves  from  foreign  pirates. 
Consequently,  Joao  III  appointed  a  governor  general  with  authority 
over  the  captaincies.  The  first  governor  general,  Tome  de  Sousa, 
was  appointed  in  1549  and  established  his  capital  at  Sao  Salvador 
da  Baia.  He  defeated  French  pirates  in  a  naval  engagement  in  the 
bay  of  Rio  de  Janeiro.  Intensified  colonization  under  de  Sousa  be- 
gan in  the  form  of  coastal  settlements  and  spread  to  the  interior. 
The  colonists  cultivated  indigenous  crops,  especially  manioc,  and 
introduced  new  ones  such  as  wheat,  rice,  grapes,  oranges,  and 
sugarcane  from  Madeira  and  Sao  Tome.  Sugar  soon  became 
Brazil's  most  important  export. 

Counter-Reformation  and  Overseas  Evangelization 

The  eruption  of  the  Protestant  Reformation  in  the  first  decades 
of  the  sixteenth  century  brought  forth  a  Roman  Catholic  response, 


32 


Historical  Setting 


the  Counter-Reformation,  a  determined  campaign  to  strengthen 
the  Roman  Catholic  Church  and  restore  religious  unity  to  Europe. 
One  of  Rome's  key  instruments  to  purify  doctrine  and  root  out 
heresy  was  the  Inquisition.  The  Counter-Reformation  soon  reached 
Portugal,  and  Joao  III  was  granted  permission  to  establish  the  Court 
of  Inquisition  in  1536.  The  court  did  not  began  its  work  until  1539 
when  the  first  inquisitor  general  was  replaced  by  a  religious  zealot, 
the  archbishop  of  Evora,  who  stood  for  public  confession  and  im- 
mediate execution.  As  elsewhere,  the  Inquisition  in  Portugal  dealt 
with  all  forms  of  heresy,  corruption,  and  disbelief,  but  its  main 
victims  were  the  so-called  New  Christians,  Jews  who  had  convert- 
ed to  Christianity  after  Manuel  I  had  ordered  in  1497  the  expul- 
sion from  Portugal  of  all  Jews  who  refused  to  accept  the  Christian 
faith.  Many  Portuguese  believed  that  the  New  Christians  secretly 
practiced  Judaism  at  home,  and  the  Inquisition  was  used  to  stop 
such  an  "abomination."  Courts  of  the  Inquisition  functioned  in 
larger  settlements  around  Portugal.  The  first  auto-da-fe,  or  pub- 
lic burning  of  a  heretic,  took  place  in  1540  in  Lisbon.  In  the  next 
150  years,  an  estimated  1,400  people  perished  in  this  manner  in 
Portugal. 

Another  of  Rome's  strongest  weapons  in  the  Counter-Reforma- 
tion was  the  Society  of  Jesus,  a  religious  order  founded  by  Ignatius 
de  Loyola  in  1539.  The  order  was  dedicated  to  furthering  the  cause 
of  Catholicism  and  propagating  its  teachings  in  missions  among 
nonbelievers.  In  1540  three  of  Loyola's  followers — Simao  Rod- 
rigues,  who  was  Portuguese;  Paulo  Camerte,  who  was  Italian;  and 
Francisco  Xavier,  who  was  Spanish — arrived  in  Portugal.  Simao 
Rodrigues  became  the  tutor  of  the  king's  son  and  later  founded 
Jesuit  schools  at  Coimbra  and  Evora.  By  1555  the  Jesuits  had  con- 
trol of  all  secondary  education  in  the  realm  and  by  1558  had  es- 
tablished a  university  in  Evora. 

Joao  III  invited  the  Jesuits  to  carry  out  their  apostolic  mission 
in  the  lands  of  Portugal's  overseas  empire.  Francisco  Xavier  left 
Portugal  in  1541  for  India  as  a  result  of  the  king's  request.  He  ar- 
rived in  Goa  in  1 542  and  immediately  began  proselytizing  among 
the  indigenous  inhabitants,  converting  many  thousands.  From  Goa 
he  went  to  Cochin  and  Ceylon;  in  1545  he  traveled  to  Malacca, 
and  in  1549,  to  Japan,  where  he  stayed  for  two  years.  After  return- 
ing to  Goa,  in  1552  he  went  to  China,  where  he  died. 

Evangelization  began  in  Brazil  in  1549  with  the  arrival  of  six 
Jesuits  led  by  Father  Manuel  de  Nobrega,  who  accompanied  Tome 
de  Sousa,  the  first  governor  general.  They  built  a  church  at  Sao 
Salvador  da  Bafa,  as  well  as  schools  at  Rio  de  Janeiro  and  Sao  Paulo. 
They  also  evangelized  northern  and  southern  Brazil.  In  the  south, 


33 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Father  Jose  Anchieta  opened  a  school  for  Indians  and  authored 
the  first  grammar  in  a  native  language,  Tupf-Guarani.  The  Jesuits 
built  churches,  schools,  and  seminaries.  They  settled  the  indigenous 
inhabitants  in  villages  and  defended  them  against  attempts  to  en- 
slave them. 

Imperial  Decline 

Portugal's  empire  in  Asia  made  its  monarchy  the  richest  in  Eu- 
rope and  made  Lisbon  the  commercial  capital  of  the  world.  This 
prosperity  was  more  apparent  than  real,  however,  because  the  new- 
found wealth  did  not  transform  the  social  structure,  nor  was  it  used 
to  lay  the  basis  for  further  economic  development.  The  country's 
industry  was  weakened  because  the  profits  from  Asian  monopo- 
lies were  used  to  import  manufactured  goods.  As  the  empire  in 
Asia  was  a  state-run  enterprise,  no  middle  class  or  commercial  sector 
independent  of  the  crown  of  any  consequence  emerged  as  it  had 
in  other  parts  of  Europe.  Moreover,  the  persecution  of  the  Jews, 
who  possessed  vital  technical  skills,  robbed  the  country  of  an  im- 
portant force  for  modernity  and  reinforced  feudal  elements.  Add- 
ing to  the  drain  on  the  economy  was  the  large  amount  of  money 
spent  on  sumptuous  palaces  and  churches. 

Because  the  wealth  from  the  discoveries  did  not  produce  a  mid- 
dle class  of  competent,  trained  individuals  to  whom  the  affairs  of 
state  gradually  fell,  leadership  in  Portugal  remained  in  the  hands 
of  the  king  and  the  military  aristocracy.  Moreover,  the  imperial 
system  had  intensified  the  already  centralized  system  of  govern- 
ment, which  meant  that  the  quality  of  national  policy  was  closely 
tied  to  the  abilities  of  the  top  leadership,  especially  the  king  him- 
self. Unfortunately,  the  House  of  Avis  did  not  produce  a  king  of 
great  merit  after  Joao  II,  and  Portugal  entered  a  long  period  of 
imperial  decline. 

Dynastic  Crisis 

When  Joao  III  died  in  1557,  the  only  surviving  heir  to  the  throne 
was  his  three-year-old  son,  Sebastiao,  who  took  over  the  govern- 
ment at  the  age  of  fourteen.  Sickly  and  poorly  educated,  Sebastiao 
proved  to  be  mentally  unstable,  and  as  he  grew  to  young  man- 
hood he  developed  a  fanatical  obsession  with  launching  a  great  cru- 
sade against  the  Muslims  in  North  Africa,  thus  reviving  the 
Moroccan  policy  of  Afonso  V.  In  1578,  when  he  was  twenty-four 
years  old,  Sebastiao  organized  an  army  of  24,000  and  assembled 
a  large  fleet  that  left  Portugal  on  August  4  for  Alcazarquivir. 
Sebastiao 's  army,  poorly  equipped  and  incompetently  led,  was 
defeated,  and  the  king,  presumed  killed  in  battle,  was  never  seen 


34 


Historical  Setting 


again.  A  large  number  of  the  nobility  were  captured  and  held  for 
ransom.  This  defeat,  the  most  disastrous  in  Portuguese  military 
history,  swept  away  the  flower  of  the  aristocratic  leadership  and 
drained  the  coffers  of  the  treasury  in  order  to  pay  ransoms.  Worse, 
it  resulted  in  the  death  of  a  king  who  had  no  descendants,  plung- 
ing Portugal  into  a  period  of  confusion  and  intrigue  over  the  suc- 
cession. 

With  Sebastiao 's  death,  the  crown  fell  to  his  uncle,  Henrique, 
the  last  surviving  son  of  Manuel  I.  Henrique's  crowning  solved 
the  succession  crisis  only  temporarily  because  Henrique  was  an  in- 
firm and  aged  cardinal  who  was  unable  to  obtain  dispensation  from 
the  pope  to  marry.  There  were  several  pretenders  to  the  throne, 
one  of  whom  was  Philip  II  of  Spain,  nephew  of  Joao  III. 

When  Henrique  died  in  1580,  a  powerful  Spanish  army  com- 
manded by  the  duke  of  Alba  invaded  Portugal  and  marched  on 
Lisbon.  This  force  routed  the  army  of  rival  contender,  Antonio, 
prior  of  Crato  and  the  illegitimate  son  of  Joao  Ill's  son  Luis.  Por- 
tugal was  annexed  by  Spain,  and  Philip  II  was  declared  Filipe  I 
of  Portugal. 

Iberian  Union 

After  Philip  was  declared  king  of  Portugal,  he  decreed  that  his 
new  realm  would  be  governed  by  a  six-member  Portuguese  coun- 
cil; that  the  Portuguese  cortes  would  meet  only  in  Portugal;  that 
all  civil,  military,  and  ecclesiastical  appointments  would  remain 
Portuguese;  and  that  the  language,  judicial  system,  coinage,  and 
military  would  remain  autonomous.  Philip  supported  the  two  in- 
stitutions in  Portugal  that  he  believed  might  unite  the  two  coun- 
tries: the  Jesuits  and  the  Inquisition.  One  result  was  that  New 
Christians  were  persecuted  even  more  severely. 

The  incorporation  of  Portugal  into  the  Iberian  Union  was  ac- 
cepted by  the  Portuguese  nobility  without  much  difficulty.  The  royal 
court  had  used  the  language  and  etiquette  of  Castile  since  the 
fifteenth  century,  and  much  serious  work  had  been  done  in  Castile 
by  Portuguese  writers,  who  were  conscious  of  belonging  to  a  com- 
mon Iberian  culture.  In  the  countryside,  however,  there  developed 
a  current  of  resistance  that  took  the  form  of  a  messianic  cult  of  the 
"hidden  prince,"  Sebastiao.  Members  of  this  cult  believed  that 
Sebastiao  did  not  actually  die  at  Alcazarquivir  but  would  return 
to  deliver  Portugal  from  Spanish  domination.  This  cult  became 
deeply  rooted,  and  over  the  years  a  number  of  impostors  appeared 
and  sparked  rebellions,  all  of  which  were  easily  put  down.  To  this 
day,  Sebastianism  (Sebastianismo),  or  the  nostalgic  longing  for  the 
unattainable,  is  a  continuing  feature  of  Portuguese  life. 


35 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

During  the  reign  of  Philip  II,  the  terms  of  the  proclamation  of 
the  union  of  the  two  crowns  were  generally  upheld.  With  Philip's 
death  in  1598  and  the  ascension  to  the  Spanish  throne  of  his  son, 
Philip  III,  much  less  respect  began  to  be  paid  to  the  provision  that 
preserved  Portugal's  autonomy.  Philip  III  did  not  visit  Portugal 
until  1619,  very  near  the  end  of  his  reign,  and  he  began  to  appoint 
Spaniards  to  the  six-member  governing  council  as  well  as  to  lesser 
posts.  His  son  and  heir,  Philip  IV,  had  no  interest  in  government 
and  consequently  turned  over  the  administration  of  Portugal  to  the 
duke  of  Olivares.  The  duke  alienated  Portuguese  of  all  classes,  in- 
cluding the  hispanophile  elite.  In  order  to  prop  up  the  waning  power 
of  the  Spanish  monarchy,  he  levied  excessive  taxes  and  troop  req- 
uisitions on  Portugal  to  support  Spanish  military  activities,  espe- 
cially against  France.  Moreover,  he  sought  to  unify  Portugal  with 
Spain. 

In  1637  a  rebellion  broke  out  in  Evora  when  the  Spanish  attempt- 
ed to  collect  these  taxes  by  force.  Portuguese  nobles  were  summoned 
to  Madrid  and  ordered  to  recruit  soldiers  for  war  against  France. 
The  Portuguese  nobility,  encouraged  by  Cardinal  Richelieu  of 
France,  who  promised  to  support  a  Portuguese  pretender  with  sold- 
iers and  ships,  began  to  conspire  against  the  Spanish.  During  the 
1637  rebellion,  the  populace  acclaimed  Joao,  duke  of  Braganca, 
as  king.  The  duke,  who  was  the  nearest  noble  to  the  House  of  Avis, 
was  Portugal's  leading  aristocrat  and  largest  landowner.  The  choice 
of  the  populace  was  supported  by  the  nobility,  which  conspired  to 
make  Joao  king.  The  duke,  who  was  cautious,  initially  resisted  ac- 
cepting the  Portuguese  crown,  but  eventually  began  to  equip  a  pri- 
vate army.  In  1640  the  Catalans  rebelled  against  Philip  IV,  and, 
thus  encouraged,  Joao's  supporters  went  into  action  on  Decem- 
ber 1 .  They  entered  the  royal  palace  and  arrested  Portugal's  Spanish 
governor,  the  duchess  of  Mantua,  a  cousin  of  the  king  of  Spain. 
Five  days  later,  the  duke  of  Braganca  arrived  in  Lisbon  and  was 
crowned  as  Joao  IV  (r.  1641-56),  thus  restoring  the  Portuguese 
monarchy  and  founding  a  new  ruling  dynasty,  the  House  of 
Braganca. 

Although  Portugal's  seaborne  empire  had  begun  to  decline  be- 
fore the  sixty  years  of  incorporation  in  the  Iberian  Union,  the 
"Spanish  captivity,"  as  this  period  is  called  by  the  Portuguese, 
hastened  this  process.  The  Portuguese,  who  were  dragged  into 
Spain's  wars  with  England  and  Holland,  began  to  see  those  two 
countries  attack  their  holdings  in  Asia,  as  well  as  in  Brazil.  By  the 
time  independence  was  regained,  Portugal's  empire  was  greatly 
reduced,  having  lost  its  commercial  monopoly  in  the  Far  East  to 
the  Dutch  and  in  India  to  the  English.  Only  the  resolute  action 


36 


Historical  Setting 


of  Portuguese  settlers  had  saved  Brazil  from  the  Dutch,  who  had 
attacked  Rio  de  Janeiro  and  Baia,  and  occupied  Pernambuco. 

Restoration 

Joao  IV  was  proclaimed  king  by  a  cortes  convoked  in  1641 .  Faced 
with  the  general  ruin  of  the  realm  and  threats  to  his  crown  from 
Spain,  his  first  act  was  to  defend  the  kingdom.  He  immediately 
created  a  council  of  war,  appointed  military  governors  in  the 
provinces,  recruited  soldiers,  rebuilt  forts,  and  constructed  an  arms 
foundry.  At  the  same  time,  he  vigorously  sought  diplomatic  recog- 
nition of  his  monarchy  and  Portugal's  independence  from  Spain. 
On  June  1,  1641,  Joao  IV  signed  an  alliance  with  Louis  XIII  of 
France  and  soon  made  peace  with  Holland  and  England.  By  the 
time  of  his  death  in  1656,  Joao  IV  had  consolidated  and  restored 
the  monarchy  by  making  peace  with  former  enemies,  recouped 
some  lost  colonial  possessions,  and  defeated  Spanish  attempts  to 
reincorporate  Portugal  into  the  Iberian  Union. 

When  Joao  died,  his  queen,  Lufsa  de  Gusmao,  became  regent 
because  the  royal  couple's  oldest  son,  Teodosio,  had  died  three  years 
before  his  father  and  their  youngest  son,  Afonso,  was  only  ten  years 
old.  Although  a  disease  in  infancy  had  left  Afonso  partially  para- 
lyzed and  had  impaired  his  intelligence,  his  mother  succeeded  in 
having  him  proclaimed  king.  Afonso  VI  (r.  1662-67)  grew  into  a 
degenerate  who  preferred  riding,  coursing  bulls,  and  watching  cock- 
fights. His  marriage  to  Marie -Francoise  Isabelle  of  Savoy  was  an- 
nulled, and,  in  1667,  aware  of  the  need  for  a  successor,  Afonso 
consented  to  his  own  abdication  in  favor  of  his  brother,  Pedro.  Dur- 
ing this  period,  the  Portuguese  managed  to  fight  off  the  last  at- 
tempt by  Spain  to  reincorporate  them  into  the  Iberian  Union  by 
defeating  the  Spanish  invaders  at  Ameixial  near  Estremos.  In  1666, 
three  years  after  this  victory,  Spain  at  last  made  peace  and  recog- 
nized Portugal's  independence. 

When  Afonso  abdicated,  he  was  banished  to  Terceira  Island  in 
the  Azores  and  his  brother,  who  had  married  Marie-Francoise,  as- 
sumed the  regency  of  the  throne  until  Afonso 's  death  in  1683,  af- 
ter which  he  ruled  in  his  own  right  as  Pedro  II  until  1706.  During 
his  regency,  Pedro  had  given  the  task  of  producing  a  coherent  eco- 
nomic policy  to  Luis  de  Menenses,  count  of  Ericeira,  who  was  ap- 
pointed head  of  the  treasury.  Known  as  the  "Portuguese  Colbert," 
Ericeira  implemented  mercantilist  policies  in  Portugal  similar  to 
those  of  France.  These  policies  sought  to  protect  Portuguese  in- 
dustries against  foreign  competition.  He  published  laws  to  enforce 
sobriety  and  criticized  luxury.  Ericeira  organized  the  textile  industry 
and  imported  looms  from  England.  He  stimulated  the  national 


37 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

production  of  wool  and  silk  by  decreeing  that  only  Portuguese  wool- 
ens and  silks  could  be  worn. 

Development  of  Brazil 

Having  lost  the  empire  in  Asia,  Portugal's  policy  makers  turned 
their  attention  to  Brazil,  where  they  intensified  the  cultivation  of 
sugar,  cotton,  and  spices.  This  expansion  of  agriculture  required 
a  great  deal  of  labor,  which  led  to  the  importation  of  slaves  from 
Angola  and  Guinea.  Amerindians  were  saved  from  this  fate  by  the 
Jesuits,  who  protected  them  from  enslavement. 

The  southern  part  of  Brazil  was  occupied  first  and  the  north, 
later,  owing  to  resistance  put  up  by  Amerindians  allied  with  French 
pirates.  In  1580  the  Portuguese  conquered  Paraiba  and,  later,  Ser- 
gipe.  In  1603  they  penetrated  to  Ceara  and,  later,  to  Para,  where 
they  founded  the  city  of  Belem.  In  1637  Pedro  Teixeira  launched 
a  daring  expedition  into  the  Amazon  Basin,  following  the  river  to 
its  headwaters  near  the  Pacific  coast.  During  the  sixteenth  and 
seventeenth  centuries,  various  expeditions  were  sent  into  the  in- 
terior, especially  at  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  century  when  gold 
was  discovered. 

These  expeditions  were  made  up  of  adventurers  known  as  ban- 
deirantes  (after  the  Portuguese  word  for  flag)  because  they  traveled 
under  the  flag  of  their  leader,  who  took  with  him  kin,  friends,  slaves, 
and  friendly  Amerindians.  These  expeditions,  which  followed  rivers 
into  the  interior,  lasted  years.  The  most  notable  bandeirantes  were 
Pais  Leme,  who  traveled  for  seven  years  throughout  present-day 
Minas  Gerais,  and  his  son-in-law,  Manuel  Borba  Gato,  who  dis- 
covered several  sources  of  gold  on  the  Rio  das  Velhas.  In  addition 
to  gold,  diamonds  were  also  found  in  abundance.  The  discovery 
of  gold  and  diamonds  sparked  a  gold  rush  from  all  over  the  world 
to  Brazil  and  from  the  central  zones  to  the  interior,  which  devastated 
Brazilian  agriculture.  The  gold  and  diamonds  enriched  the  Por- 
tuguese crown  and  allowed  it  to  spend  lavishly  on  imported  goods 
and  baroque  palaces,  thus  destroying  once  again  the  initiatives 
previously  taken  for  indigenous  economic  development. 

Brazilian  gold  also  encouraged  England  to  update  its  commer- 
cial relations  with  Portugal.  The  Methuen  Treaty  of  1703  allowed 
the  Portuguese  a  preferential  duty  on  wine  exported  to  England, 
in  return  for  which  Portugal  removed  restrictions  on  the  importa- 
tion of  English-made  goods.  The  Portuguese  market  was  soon  ab- 
sorbing 10  percent  of  the  English  export  trade,  which  represented 
an  increase  of  120  percent  above  the  quantity  of  goods  imported 
to  Portugal  before  the  treaty.  Portuguese  exports  to  England,  mainly 


38 


Historical  Setting 


wine,  rose  by  less  than  40  percent.  Gold  from  Brazil  was  used  to 
pay  for  this  trade  imbalance. 

Absolutism 

Pedro  II  was  succeeded  by  Joao  V  (r.  1706-50),  a  youth  of  seven- 
teen. He  was  an  energetic  king  who  introduced  absolutist  rule  into 
Portugal,  copying  the  style  of  the  royal  court  of  Louis  XIV  of 
France.  Brazilian  gold  allowed  Joao  V  to  spend  lavishly  on  major 
architectural  works,  the  greatest  being  the  royal  palace  at  Mafra, 
begun  in  1717,  which  sought  to  rival  the  Escorial  in  Spain.  He 
also  endowed  the  University  of  Coimbra  with  an  elegantly  deco- 
rated library,  and  built  the  Aqueduct  of  Free  Waters  (Aqueduto 
das  Aguas  Livres)  that  brought  water  to  Lisbon.  Joao  encouraged 
the  development  of  decorative  arts  such  as  furniture  design,  clock- 
making,  and  tapestry  weaving.  He  pursued  mercantilist  policies 
to  protect  indigenous  industries,  including  papermaking  at  Lousa, 
glassmaking  at  Marinha  Grande,  and  textile  weaving  at  Covilha. 
He  subsidized  the  publication  of  notable  works  such  as  Caetano 
de  Sousa's  Historia  Genealogica  da  Casa  Real.  In  general,  Joao  V  ani- 
mated what  has  been  called  Portugal's  second  renaissance. 

Joao  V  died  in  1750  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  Jose  I 
(r.  1750-77),  who  was  indolent  and  placed  the  reins  of  government 
into  the  hands  of  Sebastiao  Jose  de  Carvalho  e  Melo,  later  the  Mar- 
ques de  Pombal.  A  petty  noble  who  managed  to  surmount  Portu- 
gal's rigid  class  system  by  a  combination  of  energy,  intelligence, 
good  looks,  and  a  shrewd  marriage,  Pombal  became  the  veritable 
dictator  of  Portugal.  Once  Portugal's  ambassador  to  Britain  and 
Austria,  Pombal  had  been  influenced  by  the  ideas  of  the  Enlight- 
enment. Realizing  how  backward  Portugal  was,  he  sought  through 
a  ruthless  despotism  to  reform  it  and  create  a  middle  class. 

On  the  morning  of  November  1,  1755,  a  violent  earthquake  shook 
Lisbon  and  demolished  most  of  the  city.  Thousands  were  killed 
in  the  subsequent  fire  and  tidal  wave.  Pombal,  who  was  at  Belem 
at  the  time,  energetically  took  appropriate  measures.  He  impro- 
vised hospitals  for  the  injured,  controlled  prices  for  various  ser- 
vices, requisitioned  food  from  the  countryside,  and  organized  public 
security.  He  decided  to  rebuild  the  city  after  a  survey  of  the  ruins. 
Under  the  direction  of  the  architect  Eugenio  dos  Santos  and  the 
engineer  Manuel  da  Maia,  a  master  plan  for  a  new  city  was  drawn 
up.  The  old  city  center  was  cleared  of  rubble  and  divided  into 
squares  of  long  avenues  and  cross  streets.  New  buildings  conforming 
to  a  standard  architectural  style  were  quickly  erected  using  the  latest 
construction  techniques.  Lisbon  thus  emerged  from  the  earthquake 


39 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

as  Europe's  first  planned  city.  Flanked  by  the  Praca  do  Rossio  at 
one  end  and  the  Praca  do  Comercio  at  the  other,  this  quarter  of 
the  city  is  known  today  as  the  Baixa  Pombalina. 

For  his  prompt  and  efficient  action,  Pombal  was  elevated  to  chief 
minister,  which  allowed  him  to  consolidate  his  power.  Desiring  to 
destroy  all  forces  within  the  society  that  could  oppose  his  plans  for 
modernizing  Portugal,  he  began  systematically  to  annihilate  them, 
beginning  with  the  nobility.  An  attempt  on  the  life  of  the  king  on 
September  3,  1758,  provided  Pombal  with  a  pretext  to  take  action 
against  the  nobility.  He  accused  many  nobles  of  responsibility  for 
the  attempt  and  arrested  about  1,000  individuals.  Many  confessed 
under  brutal  torture  and  were  executed. 

Pombal  also  attempted  to  rid  Portugal  of  the  Jesuits,  whom  he 
accused  of  taking  part  in  the  attempt  on  the  king's  life.  He  searched 
the  houses  belonging  to  the  Jesuits,  confiscated  their  belongings, 
closed  their  schools,  and,  in  1759,  expelled  them  from  the  king- 
dom and  its  overseas  possessions.  In  an  effort  to  restrain  the  church, 
Pombal  broke  diplomatic  relations  with  the  Holy  See  in  1760  and 
imprisoned  the  bishop  of  Coimbra. 

Pombal' s  economic  policies  were  inspired  by  the  protectionist 
doctrines  of  Colbert,  which  gave  royal  companies  monopolies  in 
certain  fields.  Following  the  initiatives  in  this  regard  established 
by  the  count  of  Ericeira,  Pombal  prohibited  the  export  of  gold  and 
silver.  In  order  to  increase  cereal  cultivation,  he  prohibited  the  grow- 
ing of  grape  vines  in  certain  areas  of  the  country.  He  protected 
the  winemaking  industry  by  founding,  in  1756,  a  company  with 
a  monopoly  on  exporting  port  wine.  Pombal  created  other  com- 
panies with  exclusive  rights  to  commercial  activities  in  various 
regions  of  Brazil,  as  well  as  a  fishing  and  processing  company  for 
sardines  and  tuna  in  Portuguese  waters.  He  transformed  the  silk 
industry  into  a  textile  industry  and  turned  over  the  operation  of 
the  glassmaking  factory  at  Marinha  Grande  to  a  British  manager, 
who  introduced  new  manufacturing  techniques. 

Pombal  also  made  notable  changes  in  the  area  of  education.  Af- 
ter expelling  the  Jesuits  and  confiscating  their  schools,  he  took  the 
first  steps  toward  establishing  a  system  of  public  instruction.  He 
founded  a  commercial  school  and  established  schools,  paid  for  with 
a  special  tax,  in  the  major  cities.  In  addition,  Pombal  instituted 
numerous  reforms  of  the  university,  whose  decline  he  blamed  on 
the  Jesuits.  He  created  two  new  departments — mathematics  and 
philosophy — and  increased  the  number  of  professors  in  the  already 
existing  departments.  He  put  forward  new  methods  of  instruction 
based  on  the  writings  of  Luis  Antonio  Verney  and  Antonio  Nunes 


40 


Historical  Setting 


that  stressed  observation  and  experience,  and  set  up  laboratories, 
a  natural  history  museum,  a  botanical  garden,  and  an  observatory. 

Jose  I  died  in  1777  and  was  succeeded  on  the  throne  by  his  daugh- 
ter Maria  I  (r.  1777-92),  who  dismissed  Pombal  and  banished  him 
to  the  village  of  Pombal.  She  immediately  freed  hundreds  of 
prisoners,  restored  the  old  nobility  to  its  former  status,  reestab- 
lished relations  with  the  Holy  See,  revoked  laws  against  the  cler- 
gy, abolished  many  of  the  state  companies,  and  generally  dismantled 
Pombal' s  dictatorship.  The  strong,  secular  society  that  Pombal 
hoped  to  create  did  not  materialize,  and  the  old  social  and  eco- 
nomic order  quickly  restored  itself. 

Peninsular  Wars 

The  events  of  the  French  Revolution,  especially  the  regicide  of 
Louis  XVI  and  the  Terror,  made  the  rest  of  Europe's  monarchs 
fear  for  their  lives.  The  Portuguese  monarchy,  like  others,  took 
measures  to  prevent  the  infiltration  of  revolutionary  propaganda 
into  the  kingdom.  Maria  I,  who  suffered  nightmares  and  fits  of 
melancholy,  imagined  that  she  was  damned.  In  1792  she  turned 
the  reigns  of  government  over  to  her  second  son,  Joao,  who  was 
prince  of  Brazil.  As  the  situation  in  France  deteriorated,  Portugal 
signed  treaties  of  mutual  assistance  with  Britain  and  Spain  in  1793. 
In  the  same  year,  the  Spanish  army,  reinforced  by  6,000  Portuguese 
troops,  attacked  France  across  the  Basque  frontier.  In  1794  the 
French  launched  a  major  counterattack,  which  forced  the  combined 
Spanish-Portuguese  army  to  retreat  from  French  territory.  The 
French  army  reached  the  Ebro  River  and  threatened  Madrid. 

In  1795  Spain  made  peace  at  Basel  with  France  without  con- 
sulting the  Portuguese.  Despite  having  fought  with  the  Portuguese 
against  France,  the  Spanish  now  allied  themselves  with  the  French 
and  signed  a  secret  treaty  at  San  Idelfonso  in  1800.  In  1801  France 
and  Spain  sent  the  Portuguese  an  ultimatum  threatening  to  invade 
Portugal  unless  it  abandoned  its  alliance  with  Britain,  closed  its 
ports  to  the  British  and  opened  them  to  French  and  Spanish  ships, 
and  handed  over  one-quarter  of  its  territory  as  a  guarantee  for  Span- 
ish territories  held  by  Britain.  The  Portuguese  refused  to  comply, 
and  the  Spanish  marched  into  the  Alentejo  in  May.  After  two  weeks 
of  fighting,  the  "War  of  the  Oranges,"  as  it  is  known,  was  con- 
cluded in  1801  at  Badajoz.  According  to  the  terms  of  the  peace 
treaty,  Portugal  agreed  to  close  its  ports  to  British  shipping,  granted 
commercial  concessions  to  the  French,  paid  an  indemnity,  and  ced- 
ed Olivenca  to  Spain. 

When  Napoleon  became  emperor  in  1804,  he  renewed  his  strug- 
gle with  Britain.  The  British  declared  a  naval  blockade  of  France, 


41 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

and,  in  retaliation,  Napoleon  decreed  that  all  nations  of  Europe 
should  break  relations  with  Britain.  Portugal  declared  itself  neu- 
tral in  the  struggle.  Napoleon  ordered  the  Portuguese  to  close  their 
ports  to  the  British,  which  they  were  prepared  to  do  if  they  could 
do  so  without  breaking  relations  with  their  old  ally.  In  October 
1807,  Napoleon  signed  a  treaty  with  Spain  at  Fontainebleau,  ac- 
cording to  which  France  and  Spain  agreed  to  invade  Portugal  and 
partition  the  country,  one-third  going  to  France,  one- third  to  Spain, 
and  one-third  to  Spain's  chief  minister,  Manuel  de  Godoy. 

On  November  17,  1807,  an  army  of  French  and  Spanish  sol- 
diers under  the  command  of  the  French  general  Andoche  Junot 
entered  Portugal  and  marched  on  Lisbon.  The  British  were  in  no 
position  to  defend  their  ally;  consequently,  the  prince  regent  and 
the  royal  family  left  for  Brazil.  On  November  27,  Junot 's  army 
took  control  of  Lisbon. 

French  occupation  eventually  sparked  rebellions  among  the 
populace,  and  provisional  juntas  were  organized  in  several  cities. 
The  junta  in  Porto,  to  which  other  local  juntas  finally  pledged  obe- 
dience, organized  an  army  and,  with  British  help,  was  able  to  defeat 
a  strong  French  force  at  Lourinha  on  August  21,  1808.  After  this 
defeat,  the  French  opened  negotiations  with  the  Portuguese  and 
signed  the  Convention  of  Sintra,  which  provided  for  the  evacua- 
tion of  Junot 's  forces.  The  government  was  placed  in  the  hands 
of  the  juntas.  In  January  1809,  the  prince  regent  designated  a  British 
officer,  William  Carr  Beresford,  to  reorganize  the  Portuguese  army, 
granting  him  the  rank  of  marshall  and  commander  in  chief. 

In  March  1809,  French  troops  under  the  command  of  General 
Nicholas  Soult  invaded  Portugal  once  again.  Entering  the  coun- 
try from  Galicia,  they  occupied  Chaves  and  marched  on  Porto. 
A  combined  Portuguese-British  army,  commanded  by  Sir  Arthur 
Wellesley,  pushed  Soult  back  to  Galicia  and  defeated  another  French 
army  at  Tavera  in  Spain,  after  which  Wellesley  was  made  the  duke 
of  Wellington. 

The  expulsion  of  Soult 's  forces  gave  the  Anglo-Portuguese  army 
time  to  prepare  for  Napoleon's  third  invasion,  which  was  ordered 
in  1810.  The  third  French  army  under  the  command  of  General 
Andre  Massena  entered  Portugal  at  Guarda  and  marched  to  Viseu. 
Because  Wellington's  forces  held  the  main  roads,  Massena  took 
his  army  across  the  Bugaco  Mountains  and  marched  on  Coimbra, 
which  he  sacked.  Wellington  withdrew  his  army  southward,  lur- 
ing Massena  into  positions  he  had  prepared  at  Torres  Vedras.  Find- 
ing the  positions  impenetrable,  Massena,  far  from  his  source  of 
supply  and  short  of  food,  withdrew  his  forces.  Wellington  pursued 


42 


Historical  Setting 


Massena  and  overtook  him  at  Sabugal  where  his  army  was  defeated. 
Massena  retreated  from  Portugal. 

Constitutionalism 

Although  the  ideology  of  liberalism  was  known  in  Portugal  in 
the  late  1700s  by  way  of  the  American  and  French  revolutions, 
it  was  not  until  after  the  Peninsular  Wars  that  it  became  a  force 
with  which  the  monarchy  had  to  contend.  Freemasonry  introduced 
by  foreign  merchants  played  an  important  role  in  spreading  liberal 
doctrines  in  Portugal.  In  1801  there  were  five  Masonic  temples 
in  Lisbon,  and  the  first  Portuguese  grand  master  was  elected  in 
1804.  The  three  French  invasions  encouraged  the  spread  of  liberal 
ideas.  In  1812  Freemasons  founded  the  Sinedrio,  a  secret  society 
that  propagated  revolutionary  ideas.  Radical  ideas  were  also  dis- 
cussed by  Portuguese  who  lived  in  London  or  Paris  where  they 
had  observed  and  been  influenced  by  the  functioning  of  the  British 
and  French  systems.  Newspapers  and  pamphlets,  despite  the 
vigilance  of  the  crown's  censors  and  police,  were  smuggled  into 
Portugal  and  widely  read  by  a  small  and  increasingly  important 
educated  elite,  called  the  afrancesados,  who  wanted  to  reconstruct 
Portugal  on  the  French  model.  After  the  Peninsular  Wars,  the  ex- 
iles themselves  returned  to  Portugal  and  began  to  agitate  for  a  con- 
stitutional monarchy.  One  of  these  was  General  Gomes  Freire 
Andrade,  the  grand  master  of  Portuguese  Masons,  who  became 
the  leader  of  liberals  in  Portugal.  The  liberals  were  eventually  to 
be  successful  because  of  a  crisis  of  royal  leadership. 

Revolution  of  1820 

In  1816  Maria  I,  after  twenty-four  years  of  insanity,  died,  and 
the  prince  regent  was  proclaimed  Joao  VI  (r.  1816-26).  The  new 
king,  who  had  acquired  a  court  and  government  in  Brazil  and  a 
following  among  the  Brazilians,  did  not  immediately  return  to  Por- 
tugal, and  liberals  continued  to  agitate  against  the  monarchy.  In 
May  1817,  General  Gomes  Freire  Andrade  was  arrested  on  trea- 
son charges  and  hanged,  as  were  eleven  alleged  accomplices.  Beres- 
ford,  who  was  still  commander  in  chief  of  the  Portuguese  army, 
was  popularly  blamed  for  the  harshness  of  the  sentences,  which 
aggravated  unrest  in  the  country.  The  most  active  center  of  Por- 
tuguese liberalism  was  Porto,  where  the  Sinedrio  was  situated  and 
quickly  gaining  adherents.  In  March  1820,  Beresford  went  to  Brazil 
to  persuade  the  king  to  return  to  the  throne.  His  departure  allowed 
the  influence  of  the  liberals  to  grow  within  the  army,  which  had 
emerged  from  the  Peninsular  Wars  as  Portugal's  strongest  insti- 
tution. On  August  24,  1820,  regiments  in  Porto  revolted  and 


43 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

established  a  provisional  junta  that  assumed  the  government  of  Por- 
tugal until  a  cortes  could  be  convoked  to  write  a  constitution.  The 
regency  was  bypassed  because  it  was  unable  to  cope  with  Portu- 
gal's financial  crisis,  and  Beresford  was  not  allowed  to  enter  the 
country  when  he  returned  from  Brazil. 

In  December  1820,  indirect  elections  were  held  for  a  constitu- 
tional cortes,  which  convened  in  January  1821.  The  deputies  were 
mostiy  constitutional  monarchists.  They  elected  a  regency  to  replace 
the  provisional  junta,  abolished  seignorial  rights  and  the  Inquisi- 
tion, and,  on  September  23,  approved  a  constitution.  At  the  same 
time,  Joao  VI  decided  to  return  to  Portugal,  leaving  his  son  Pedro 
in  Brazil.  Upon  his  arrival  in  Lisbon,  Joao  swore  an  oath  to  up- 
hold the  new  constitution.  After  his  departure  from  Brazil,  Brazilian 
liberals,  inspired  by  the  independence  of  the  United  States  and  the 
independence  struggles  in  the  neighboring  Spanish  colonies,  be- 
gan to  agitate  for  freedom  from  Portugal.  Brazilian  independence 
was  proclaimed  on  October  12,  1822,  with  Pedro  as  constitutional 
emperor. 

The  constitution  of  1822  installed  a  constitutional  monarchy  in 
Portugal.  It  declared  that  sovereignty  rested  with  the  nation  and 
established  three  branches  of  government  in  classical  liberal  fashion. 
Legislative  power  was  exercised  by  a  directly  elected,  unicameral 
Chamber  of  Deputies;  executive  power  was  vested  in  the  king  and 
his  secretaries  of  state;  and  judicial  power  was  in  the  hands  of  the 
courts.  The  king  and  his  secretaries  of  state  had  no  representation 
in  the  chamber  and  no  power  to  dissolve  it. 

Two  broad  divisions  emerged  in  Portuguese  society  over  the  is- 
sue of  the  constitution.  On  the  one  hand  were  the  liberals  who 
defended  it  and,  on  the  other,  the  royalists  who  favored  absolutism. 
The  first  reaction  to  the  new  liberal  regime  surfaced  in  February 
1823  in  Tras-os-Montes  where  the  count  of  Amarante,  a  leading 
absolutist,  led  an  insurrection.  Later,  in  May,  Amarante  once  again 
sounded  the  call  to  arms,  and  an  infantry  regiment  rose  at  Vila 
Franca  de  Xira,  just  north  of  Lisbon.  Some  of  the  Lisbon  garrison 
joined  the  absolutists,  as  did  the  king's  younger  brother,  Miguel, 
who  had  refused  to  swear  to  uphold  the  constitution.  After  the 
Vilafrancada,  as  the  uprising  is  known,  Miguel  was  made  gener- 
alissimo of  the  army.  In  April  1824,  Miguel  led  a  new  revolt — the 
Abrilada — which  sought  to  restore  absolutism.  Joao,  supported  by 
Beresford,  who  had  been  allowed  to  return  to  Portugal,  dismissed 
Miguel  from  his  post  as  generalissimo  and  exiled  him  to  France. 
The  constitution  of  1822  was  suspended,  and  Portugal  was  governed 
under  Joao's  moderate  absolutism  until  he  died  in  1826. 


44 


Historical  Setting 


War  of  the  Two  Brothers 

Joao's  death  created  a  problem  of  royal  succession.  The  right- 
ful heir  to  the  throne  was  his  eldest  son,  Pedro,  emperor  of  Brazil. 
Neither  the  Portuguese  nor  the  Brazilians  wanted  a  unified  monar- 
chy; consequently,  Pedro  abdicated  the  Portuguese  crown  in  favor 
of  his  daughter,  Maria  da  Gloria,  a  child  of  seven,  on  the  condi- 
tion that  when  of  age  she  marry  his  brother,  Miguel.  In  April  1826, 
as  part  of  the  succession  settlement,  Pedro  granted  a  new  consti- 
tution to  Portugal,  known  as  the  Constitutional  Charter.  Pedro 
returned  to  Brazil  leaving  the  throne  to  Maria,  with  Miguel  as 
regent. 

The  Constitutional  Charter  attempted  to  reconcile  absolutists 
and  liberals  by  allowing  both  factions  a  role  in  government.  Un- 
like the  constitution  of  1822,  this  document  established  four 
branches  of  government.  The  legislature  was  divided  into  two  cham- 
bers. The  upper  chamber,  the  Chamber  of  Peers,  was  composed 
of  life  and  hereditary  peers  and  clergy  appointed  by  the  king.  The 
lower  chamber,  the  Chamber  of  Deputies,  was  composed  of  111 
deputies  elected  to  four-year  terms  by  the  indirect  vote  of  local  as- 
semblies, which  in  turn  were  elected  by  persons  meeting  certain 
tax-paying  and  property-owning  requirements.  Judicial  power  was 
exercised  by  the  courts;  executive  power  by  the  ministers  of  the 
government;  and  moderative  power  by  the  king,  who  held  an  ab- 
solute veto  over  all  legislation. 

The  absolutists,  however,  were  not  satisfied  with  this  com- 
promise, and  they  continued  to  regard  Miguel  as  the  legitimate 
successor  to  the  throne  because  he  was  Portuguese  whereas  Pedro 
was  Brazilian.  In  February  1828,  Miguel  returned  to  Portugal  to 
take  the  oath  of  allegiance  to  the  charter  and  assume  the  regency. 
He  was  immediately  proclaimed  king  by  his  supporters.  Although 
it  initially  appeared  that  Miguel  would  abide  by  the  charter,  pres- 
sure mounted  for  a  return  to  absolutism.  A  month  after  his  return, 
Miguel  dissolved  the  Chamber  of  Deputies  and  the  Chamber  of 
Peers  and,  in  May,  summoned  the  traditional  cortes  of  the  three 
estates  of  the  realm  to  proclaim  his  accession  to  absolute  power. 
The  Cortes  of  1828  assented  to  Miguel's  wish,  proclaiming  him 
king  as  Miguel  I  and  nullifying  the  Constitutional  Charter. 

This  usurpation  did  not  go  unchallenged  by  the  liberals.  On  May 
18,  the  garrison  in  Porto  declared  its  loyalty  to  Pedro,  Maria  da 
Gloria,  and  the  Constitutional  Charter.  The  rebellion  against  the 
absolutists  spread  to  other  cities.  Miguel  suppressed  these  rebel- 
lions, and  many  thousands  of  liberals  were  either  arrested  or  fled 
to  Spain  and  Britain.  There  followed  five  years  of  repression. 


45 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


In  Brazil,  meanwhile,  relations  between  Pedro  and  Brazil's  po- 
litical leaders  had  become  strained.  In  1831  Pedro  abdicated  in  favor 
of  his  son,  Pedro  II,  and  sailed  for  Britain.  He  organized  a  mili- 
tary expedition  there  and  then  went  to  the  Azores,  which  were  in 
the  hands  of  the  liberals,  to  set  up  a  government  in  exile  in  March 
1831 .  In  July  1832,  Pedro  occupied  Porto,  which  was  subsequent- 
ly besieged  by  the  absolutists.  In  June  1833,  the  liberals,  still  en- 
circled at  Porto,  sent  a  force  commanded  by  the  duke  of  Terceira 
to  the  Algarve.  At  the  same  time,  a  liberal  squadron  defeated  the 
absolutists'  fleet  near  Cabo  Sao  Vincente.  Terceira  landed  at  Faro 
and  marched  north  through  the  Alentejo  to  capture  Lisbon  on  July 
24.  A  stalemate  of  nine  months  ensued.  The  absolutists  controlled 
the  rural  areas,  where  they  were  supported  by  the  aristocracy  and 
the  peasantry.  The  liberals  occupied  Portugal's  major  cities,  Lis- 
bon and  Porto,  where  they  commanded  a  sizeable  following  among 
the  middle  classes.  Finally,  the  Miguelists  lifted  their  siege  of  Por- 
to and  marched  on  Lisbon,  but  they  were  defeated  at  Evora-Monte. 
Peace  was  declared  in  May  1834,  and  Miguel,  guaranteed  an  an- 
nual pension,  was  banished  from  Portugal,  never  to  return.  Pedro 
restored  the  Constitutional  Charter. 

Moderate  vs.  Radical  Liberals 

Pedro  survived  his  victory  by  less  than  three  months.  After  his 
death,  fifteen-year-old  Maria  da  Gloria  was  proclaimed  queen  as 
Maria  II  (r.  1834-53).  Despite  their  victory  over  the  absolutists, 
the  liberals  were  themselves  divided  between  moderates,  who  sup- 
ported the  principles  of  the  charter,  and  radicals,  who  wanted  a 
return  to  the  constitution  of  1822.  Maria's  first  government  was 
made  up  of  moderates  headed  by  the  duke  of  Palmela,  whose 
government  collapsed  in  May  1835.  He  was  succeeded  by  the  duke 
of  Saldanha,  whose  government  fell  in  May  1836.  In  July  1836, 
radicals  were  elected  from  Porto  by  advocating  a  return  to  the  con- 
stitution of  1822  as  a  way  of  resolving  Portugal's  economic  crisis. 
When  these  deputies  arrived  in  Lisbon,  they  were  met  by  demon- 
strations supporting  their  cause.  The  following  day,  the  moderate 
liberal  government  collapsed,  and,  in  September,  the  radicals,  led 
by  Manuel  da  Silva  Passos,  formed  a  new  government.  The  radi- 
cals nullified  the  Constitutional  Charter  and  reestablished  the  con- 
stitution of  1822  until  it  could  be  revised  by  a  constituent  cortes 
to  make  it  more  compatible  with  changed  social  and  economic  cir- 
cumstances. 

The  actions  of  the  radicals  resulted  in  a  violent  reaction  from 
the  moderates,  who  saw  their  power  threatened  and  considered  the 
charter  the  symbol  of  the  liberal  victory  in  the  War  of  Two  Brothers. 


46 


Historical  Setting 


As  a  compromise,  the  Constituent  Assembly,  convoked  in  March 
1838,  attempted  to  reconcile  the  constitution  of  1822  and  the  Con- 
stitutional Charter.  In  April  1838,  Portugal's  third  constitution  was 
approved.  The  document  abolished  the  royal  moderative  power 
and  returned  to  liberalism's  classical  tripartite  division  of  govern- 
ment into  legislative,  executive,  and  judicial  branches.  It  reaffirmed, 
as  did  the  1822  constitution,  that  sovereignty  rested  with  the  na- 
tion. It  abolished  the  Chamber  of  Peers  and  substituted  a  Cham- 
ber of  Senators,  and  it  established  direct  election  of  the  Chamber 
of  Deputies,  although  only  selected  citizens  were  allowed  to  vote. 
The  monarch's  role  was  enhanced,  and  the  Chamber  of  Senators 
was  restricted  to  leading  citizens,  or  notables. 

The  radicals,  now  called  Septemberists  after  the  September  1836 
revolution,  held  office  until  June  1841.  On  that  date,  they  were 
replaced  in  a  bloodless  coup  d'etat  by  moderates,  who  abolished 
the  1838  constitution  and  restored  the  charter.  Antonio  Bernardo 
da  Costa  Cabral,  who  organized  and  led  the  revolt,  took  various 
measures  designed  to  reform  Portugal's  political,  economic,  and 
social  systems.  Some  of  these  measures,  especially  new  sanitary 
regulations  that  prohibited  burials  in  churchyards,  stirred  the  rural 
countryside,  still  Miguelist,  into  active  resistance  against  the  liberal 
government  in  Lisbon. 

The  women  of  the  Minho  region,  who  had  traditionally  played 
an  important  role  in  churchyard  burials,  began  to  demonstrate 
against  the  authorities.  Supported  by  the  rural  nobility  and  cler- 
gy, the  Maria  da  Fontes,  as  this  movement  was  called,  spread 
throughout  the  rural  north.  Unable  to  suppress  it  by  force,  the 
government  of  Costa  Cabral  fell  on  May  20,  1846.  The  new  govern- 
ment, a  confusing  hodgepodge  of  radicals  and  moderates,  rescinded 
the  cemetery  regulations.  The  government  divided  when  the  duke 
of  Palmela,  who  was  its  prime  minister,  called  for  new  elections 
in  October,  hoping  to  unite  the  moderates,  themselves  divided  into 
two  factions.  This  development  sparked  a  reaction  by  the  Septem- 
berists, who  were  particularly  strong  in  Porto,  where  they  rebelled 
and  set  up  a  provisional  junta.  The  duke  of  Saldanha,  Palmela' s 
replacement,  attempted  without  success  to  suppress  the  Septem- 
berist  rebellion,  which  by  now  had  spread  beyond  Porto  to  other 
areas.  With  the  country  on  the  brink  of  a  second  civil  war,  Queen 
Maria  sought  help  from  the  Quadruple  Alliance,  consisting  of  Brit- 
ain and  France,  as  well  as  Spanish  and  Portuguese  liberal  elements. 
After  the  alliance  imposed  a  naval  blockade  and  sent  troops,  the 
Septemberists  capitulated,  Saldanha  resigned,  and  a  peace  agree- 
ment was  signed  on  June  29,  1847.  Costa  Cabral  returned  to  power. 


47 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 
Rotativismo 

In  1851  Saldanha  staged  a  revolt  and,  supported  by  the  garri- 
son in  Porto,  gained  control  of  the  government  and  sent  Costa 
Cabral  into  exile.  Saldanha  and  his  followers  were  called  Regener- 
ators because  they  recognized  the  need  to  modify  the  charter  to 
make  it  more  compatible  with  the  social  and  political  situation. 
These  modifications  appeared  as  amendments,  the  first  of  which 
was  a  new  electoral  law  that  made  the  franchise  more  acceptable 
to  the  Septemberists.  Gradually,  government  became  stabilized. 
The  Septemberists  began  to  be  referred  to  as  Historicals  and,  later, 
Progressives. 

The  Regenerators  and  Progressives  were  not  political  parties  in 
today's  sense  of  the  term.  The  electorate  comprised  less  than  1  per- 
cent of  the  population;  therefore,  the  Regenerators  and  Progres- 
sives were  essentially  loose  coalitions  of  notables,  or  leading  citizens, 
based  on  personal  loyalties  and  local  interests.  Elections  were  held 
after  a  change  in  governing  factions  to  provide  the  new  faction  with 
a  majority  in  the  legislature.  By  tacit  agreement,  one  faction  would 
govern  as  long  as  it  was  able  and  then  turn  over  power  to  the  other. 
After  1856  this  practice  of  alternating  factions  at  regular  intervals, 
called  rotativismo,  was  all  but  institutionalized  and  produced  rela- 
tively stable  government  until  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century. 

Portuguese  Africa 

With  the  advent  of  rotativismo  and  subsequent  political  stability, 
the  attention  of  Portugal  turned  toward  its  colonial  possessions  in 
Africa.  In  East  Africa,  the  chief  settlement  was  Mozambique  Is- 
land, but  there  was  little  control  over  the  estates  of  the  mainland 
where  Portuguese  of  mixed  ancestry  ruled  as  feudal  potentates.  In 
West  Africa,  the  most  important  settlements  were  Luanda  and  Ben- 
guela  on  the  Angolan  coast,  linked  to  Brazil  by  the  slave  trade  con- 
ducted through  the  African  island  of  Sao  Tome.  It  was  during  this 
period  that  the  Portuguese  began  to  send  expeditions  into  the  in- 
terior. 

In  1852  Antonio  Francisco  Silva  Porto  explored  the  interior  of 
Angola.  In  1877  a  scientific  expedition  led  by  Hermenegildo  Capelo 
and  Roberto  Ivens,  two  naval  officers,  and  Alexandre  Serpa  Pin- 
to, an  army  major,  departed  from  Luanda  and  traveled  to  the  Bie 
region  in  central  Angola,  where  they  separated.  Serpa  Pinto  ex- 
plored the  headwaters  of  the  Cuanza  River  in  Angola  and  followed 
the  course  of  the  Zambezi  River  to  Victoria  Falls  in  present-day 
Zimbabwe.  Exploring  areas  now  part  of  South  Africa,  he  crossed 
the  Transvaal  and  arrived  in  Natal  in  1879.  In  1884  Capelo  and 


48 


Historical  Setting 


Ivens  departed  from  Mocamades  on  the  coast  of  Angola  and  crossed 
the  continent  through  entirely  unexplored  territory,  arriving  at  Que- 
limane  on  the  east  coast  of  Mozambique  in  1885.  In  the  same  year, 
Serpa  Pinto  and  Augusto  Cardoso  explored  the  territory  around 
Lake  Nyassa.  Various  Portuguese,  such  as  Paiva  de  Andrade  and 
Antonio  Maria  Cardoso,  explored  the  interior  of  Mozambique. 

Despite  Portugal's  historical  claim  to  the  Congo  region,  the 
colonial  ambitions  of  the  great  powers  of  the  day — Britain,  France, 
and  Germany — gave  rise  to  disputes  about  its  ownership.  Portu- 
gal therefore  proposed  an  international  conference  to  resolve  the 
disputed  claim  to  the  Congo.  This  conference,  which  met  in  Ber- 
lin in  1884-85,  awarded  the  Congo  to  the  king  of  Belgium  and 
established  the  principle  that  in  order  for  a  claim  to  African  terri- 
tory to  be  valid,  the  claimant  had  to  demonstrate  "effective  occu- 
pation," not  historical  rights.  The  Berlin  Conference,  as  it  is  known, 
resulted  in  the  partition  of  Africa  among  the  European  powers, 
and  awarded  Mozambique,  Angola,  and  Guinea  to  Portugal. 

In  1886  Portugal  signed  two  treaties  that  delimited  the  bound- 
aries between  Portuguese  territories  and  those  of  France  and  Ger- 
many. France  and  Germany  recognized  Portugal's  right  to  exercise 
sovereignty  in  the  interior  territory  between  Mozambique  and  An- 
gola. This  claim  was  represented  on  a  map,  annexed  to  the  treaty 
with  France,  on  which  the  claimed  territory  was  colored  red.  In 
order  to  validate  this  claim,  the  Portuguese  published  the  "rose- 
colored  map"  and  organized  successive  expeditions  into  the  interior 
between  Mozambique  and  Angola.  Meanwhile,  the  British  were 
also  exploring  the  territory  from  south  to  north  under  the  auspices 
of  Cecil  Rhodes,  who  had  designs  on  the  territory  for  the  construc- 
tion of  a  railroad  that  would  run  from  Cape  Town  through  central 
Africa  to  Cairo. 

Portugal  protested  against  the  activities  of  the  British  in  what 
they  considered  to  be  their  territory.  The  British,  having  signed 
a  number  of  treaties  with  African  chiefs,  claimed  that  the  territory 
was  under  their  protection  and  refused  to  recognize  the  rose-colored 
map.  Moreover,  they  said  the  territory  was  not  Portuguese  because 
Portugal  had  not  effectively  occupied  it  as  required  by  the  terms 
of  the  Berlin  Conference.  Portugal  proposed  that  the  conflicting 
claims  be  resolved  through  arbitration.  Britain  refused  and  sent 
the  Portuguese  an  ultimatum,  on  January  11,  1890,  demanding 
the  withdrawal  of  all  Portuguese  forces  from  the  disputed  territory. 
Portugal,  faced  with  the  armed  might  of  the  British,  complied. 

Republicanism 

The  ultimatum  of  1890  caused  astonishment  and  indignation  in 


49 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Lisbon.  As  a  result,  the  Progressive  government  fell  and  a  non- 
party government  came  to  power.  The  ultimatum  was  strongly 
denounced  by  Portugal's  growing  band  of  republicans,  who  had 
organized  themselves  into  a  formal  party  in  1878.  The  republicans 
based  their  appeals  on  crude  nationalism  and  played  on  the  fears 
of  many  that  a  continuation  of  the  inept  government  of  the  liber- 
als would  make  Portugal  either  a  British  colony  or  a  province  of 
Spain.  Teachers,  journalists,  small-business  persons,  clerks,  and 
artisans  were  drawn  to  republicanism,  with  its  appeals  to  nation- 
alism, universal  suffrage,  separation  of  church  and  state,  and  the 
abolition  of  the  monarchy  and  nobility,  which  were  seen  as  irra- 
tional institutions  that  sapped  the  strength  of  Portugal. 

The  appeal  of  republicanism  was  also  enhanced  by  the  collapse 
of  rotativismo.  After  1890  the  system  ceased  to  function  smoothly. 
Conflicts  between  the  Regenerators  and  Historicals,  formerly  set- 
tled in  secret,  were  brought  into  the  open  in  an  effort  to  generate 
public  support  for  the  system.  But  open  debate  proved  to  be  un- 
settling in  Portugal's  depoliticized  society.  By  1906  neither  faction 
could  attain  a  parliamentary  majority.  In  that  year,  the  republi- 
cans managed  to  elect  from  Lisbon  four  deputies  who  proceeded 
to  create  tumultuous  scenes  in  parliament.  In  May  1907,  the  situ- 
ation came  to  a  standstill.  The  king,  Carlos  I  (r.  1889-1908),  dis- 
solved parliament  and  gave  to  Joao  Franco,  a  conservative  reformist 
who  had  bolted  from  the  Regenerators  to  form  his  own  party,  the 
power  to  govern  by  decree.  Joao  Franco's  dictatorship  was  con- 
demned by  all  political  parties,  and  the  republicans  attempted  an 
unsuccessful  coup  d'etat.  A  crackdown  on  the  republican  move- 
ment followed.  On  February  1,  1908,  the  king  and  the  royal  family 
were  attacked  by  two  disgruntled  republicans  as  they  crossed  the 
Praca  do  Comercio  by  open  landau.  The  king  and  his  youngest 
son  were  killed,  and  his  oldest  son,  Manuel,  survived  a  bullet  wound 
in  the  arm.  Manuel,  who  was  eighteen  at  the  time,  became  king 
as  Manuel  II  (r.  1908-10). 

In  an  effort  to  salvage  the  monarchy,  Joao  Franco  stepped  down 
as  prime  minister  and  went  into  exile.  New  elections  were  held, 
but  factionalism  among  the  Regenerators  and  Historicals  prevented 
the  formation  of  a  stable  government  even  after  six  attempts.  On 
October  1,  1910,  the  appearance  in  Portugal  of  the  president  of 
the  Brazilian  republic  after  a  visit  to  Germany  provided  a  pretext 
for  extensive  republican  demonstrations.  On  October  3,  the  army 
refused  to  put  down  a  mutiny  on  Portuguese  warships  anchored 
in  the  estuary  of  the  Tagus  and  took  up  positions  around  Lisbon. 
On  October  4,  when  two  of  the  warships  began  to  shell  the  royal 
palace,  Manuel  II  and  the  royal  family  fled  to  Britain.  On  October 


50 


Manuel  II,  Portugal's 
last  king  (r.  1908-10) 
Courtesy  Embassy  of 
Portugal,  Washington 


5,  a  provisional  republican  government  was  organized  with  the 
writer  Teofilo  Braga  as  president. 

The  First  Republic 

In  May  1911,  the  provisional  government  held  elections  for  the 
Constituent  Assembly,  which  undertook  to  write  a  new  constitu- 
tion. This  document,  which  appeared  on  August  21,  abolished  the 
monarchy  and  inaugurated  Portugal's  first  republican  government. 
The  constitution  secularized  the  state  by  disestablishing  the  church, 
forbidding  religious  instruction  in  the  public  schools,  and  prohibit- 
ing the  military  from  taking  part  in  religious  observances.  It  grant- 
ed workers  the  right  to  strike  and  opened  the  civil  service  to  merit 
appointments.  The  blue  and  white  flag  of  the  monarchy  was  replaced 
with  one  of  red  and  green,  embellished  with  an  armillary  sphere 
in  gold. 

The  constitution  vested  legislative  power  in  a  bicameral  Congress 
of  the  Republic.  The  upper  house,  called  the  Senate,  was  indirectly 
elected  from  local  governments  for  six-year  terms;  the  lower  house, 
or  Chamber  of  Deputies,  was  directly  elected  for  three-year  terms. 
Executive  power  was  vested  in  a  cabinet  and  prime  minister  respon- 
sible to  the  Congress,  which  also  chose  the  president  of  the  repub- 
lic, the  nominal  head  of  state.  The  Constituent  Assembly  became 
the  first  Congress  by  electing  one- third  of  its  members  to  the  Senate; 
the  remaining  two-thirds  constituted  the  Chamber  of  Deputies. 


51 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

The  Portuguese  Republican  Party  (Partido  Republicano 
Portugues — PRP)  was  Portugal's  first  political  party  in  the  modern 
sense  of  the  term.  Although  its  base  of  support  was  primarily  ur- 
ban, the  PRP  had  a  nationwide  organization  that  extended  into 
the  rural  areas.  It  did  not  remain  unified,  however.  In  191 1  moder- 
ate and  radical  republican  deputies  divided  over  the  election  by 
the  Constituent  Assembly  of  the  new  president  of  the  republic.  The 
candidate  of  the  radical  republicans,  led  by  Afonso  Costa,  was 
defeated  by  the  candidate  of  the  moderates,  led  by  Manuel  Brito 
Camacho  and  Antonio  Jose  de  Almeida,  who  opposed  Costa's  in- 
transigent republicanism  and  feared  that  he  would  gain  control  of 
the  new  government.  The  split  widened  at  the  PRP  Congress  in 
October  1911  when  the  moderates  where  hooted  down  and  left  in 
disgust.  The  moderates  then  formed  the  Republican  National  Union 
(Uniao  Nacional  Republicana — UNR),  the  directorate  consisting 
of  Camacho,  Almeida,  and  Aresta  Branco.  The  UNR  was  essen- 
tially a  personal  clique  of  several  moderate  leaders  whose  purpose 
was  to  get  through  parliament  a  program  that  would  mitigate  the 
impact  of  the  more  radical  republican  government.  After  this 
breakup,  the  PRP  became  known  as  the  Democratic  Party  (Partido 
Democratico — PD) . 

In  February  1912,  the  UNR  leadership  itself  split  into  two  repub- 
lican splinter  parties.  The  immediate  cause  of  the  rift  was  disagree- 
ment over  the  UNR  program  and  rivalry  between  Camacho  and 
Almeida.  The  rump,  led  by  Camacho,  was  renamed  the  Republi- 
can Union  (Uniao  Republicana — UR),  and  its  members  became 
known  as  Unionists.  The  other  group,  led  by  Almeida,  was  called 
the  Republican  Evolutionist  Party  (Partido  Republicano  Evolu- 
cionista — PRE),  and  its  followers  became  known  as  Evolutionists. 
The  program  of  the  PRE  was  quite  similar  to  that  of  the  UR,  but 
it  urged  a  policy  of  moderation  and  conciliation  and  advocated 
proportional  representation  and  revision  of  intolerant  laws. 

The  splintering  of  the  original  PRP,  personalism,  and  petty 
squabbles  produced  acute  governmental  instability  during  the  First 
Republic.  In  its  fifteen  years  and  eight  months  of  existence,  there 
were  seven  elections  for  the  Congress,  eight  for  the  presidency,  and 
forty-five  governments.  Instability  was  also  encouraged  by  the 
government's  total  dependency  upon  the  Congress,  where  no  sta- 
ble majority  could  be  organized.  This  political  turmoil  led  to  several 
periods  of  military  rule  during  the  First  Republic  and  eventually 
to  its  overthrow. 

In  January  1915,  senior  military  officers,  who  were  becoming 
increasingly  alienated  from  the  republic,  imposed  a  period  of  mili- 
tary rule  at  President  Manuel  de  Arriaga's  request.  In  May  of  the 


52 


Historical  Setting 


same  year,  however,  prorepublican  junior  officers  and  sergeants 
returned  the  government  to  civilians  and  held  new  elections.  The 
PD,  led  by  Afonso  Costa,  won  the  day. 

In  1916  Prime  Minister  Costa,  who  feared  that  a  German  vic- 
tory in  World  War  I  would  mean  the  loss  of  Portugal's  African 
colonies  of  Mozambique  and  Angola,  sent  an  expeditionary  force 
of  40,000  men  to  fight  on  the  side  of  the  Allies.  Poorly  trained  and 
equipped,  the  force  suffered  horrendous  casualties  in  Flanders.  This 
debacle,  as  well  as  severe  food  shortages  caused  by  the  war  mobili- 
zation, paved  the  way  for  a  second  military  intervention  in  De- 
cember 1917,  led  by  Major  Sidonio  Pais.  Pais,  who  had  held  a 
diplomatic  post  in  Prussia  some  years  before,  was  sympathetic  to 
Germany  and  antiliberal.  He  was  an  energetic,  charismatic  in- 
dividual who  sought  to  build  a  broadly  based  popular  following. 
Gradually,  however,  he  came  to  rely  on  upper-class  youths,  young 
army  officers,  students,  and  sons  of  big  landowners,  who  were  anti- 
liberal  and  traditionalist.  In  December  1918,  Pais  was  assassinat- 
ed by  a  radical  republican  corporal  recently  returned  from  the  front. 
Portugal's  government  was  returned  to  civilians. 

Political  instability  continued  under  civilian  government.  A  small- 
scale  civil  war  erupted  in  northern  Portugal  as  monarchists  led  by 
Henrique  Paiva  Couciero  attempted  to  restore  the  monarchy.  A 
wave  of  violence  swept  the  country,  and  leading  republican  figures, 
including  the  prime  minister,  were  murdered.  Political  instability 
and  violence  brought  economic  life  to  a  standstill.  The  middle  class, 
which  had  initially  supported  the  republic,  began  to  turn  toward 
traditional  values  as  liberal  and  republican  ideals  were  increasing- 
ly discredited. 

By  1925  the  republic  had  become  the  butt  of  ridicule  and  cyni- 
cism. It  never  satisfactorily  resolved  its  dispute  with  the  church, 
against  which  some  of  its  first  legislation  had  been  directed.  Offi- 
cial anticlericism  made  it  impossible  for  many  to  accept  the  republic 
and  stimulated  the  development  of  a  politically  involved  Catholic 
intelligentsia  in  opposition  to  the  parliamentary  regime.  The  ap- 
paritions at  Fatima  in  1917  occurred  at  the  height  of  Prime  Minister 
Costa's  anticlerical  campaign.  Those  dissatisfied  with  the  repub- 
lic viewed  the  authoritarian  governments  established  in  Italy  (in 
1922)  and  Spain  (in  1923)  as  attractive  alternatives. 

Many  military  officers,  despite  their  previous  negative  ex- 
periences in  government,  thought  that  only  they  could  save  Por- 
tugal from  disintegration.  Their  inclination  to  intervene  once  again 
was  heightened  by  grievances  over  low  pay  and  poor  equipment. 
During  the  last  thirteen  months  of  the  republic,  there  were  three 
attempts  to  overturn  the  regime.  The  last  of  these  was  successful. 


53 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


On  May  26,  1926,  General  Manuel  Gomes  da  Costa,  the  coup 
d'etat's  leader  selected  by  the  young  officers  who  had  organized 
it,  announced  from  Braga  his  intention  to  march  on  Lisbon  and 
take  power.  This  announcement  was  followed  by  a  massive  mili- 
tary uprising  that  met  little  resistance.  On  May  28,  General  Gomes 
da  Costa  symbolically  entered  Lisbon,  a  dramatic  gesture  emulat- 
ing Benito  Mussolini's  march  on  Rome  in  1922.  Prime  Minister 
Antonio  Maria  da  Silva  resigned  on  May  29,  and  the  First  Republic 
was  ended. 

Military  Dictatorship 

The  coup  d'etat  was  bloodless  because  no  military  units  came 
to  the  aid  of  the  government.  On  May  30,  the  president  of  the 
republic,  Bernardino  Machado,  turned  the  reins  of  power  over  to 
Commander  Jose  Mendes  Cabecadas,  a  naval  officer  and  staunch 
republican,  not  to  General  Gomes  da  Costa,  the  titular  leader  of 
the  military  uprising.  This  action  resulted  in  two  months  of  behind- 
the-scenes  infighting  among  various  factions  of  the  military.  The 
promonarchist  tendency  within  the  May  28  Movement,  as  the  coup 
was  called,  allied  itself  with  right-wing  but  not  necessarily  monar- 
chist junior  officers  who  wanted  some  form  of  authoritarian  state. 
In  the  hope  of  preventing  the  rise  of  a  monarchist  or  authoritarian 
regime,  Mendes  Cabecadas  formed  a  joint  government  with  Gomes 
da  Costa  on  June  1.  On  June  17,  Gomes  da  Costa  ousted  Mendes 
Cabecadas  and  his  followers  from  the  provisional  government. 
General  da  Costa's  supremacy  was  temporary;  he  too  was  ousted 
on  July  9.  On  the  same  day,  General  Oscar  Fragoso  Carmona  was 
named  head  of  the  military  government. 

The  military  government  was  now  in  the  hands  of  monarchists 
and  authoritarian  officers,  and  it  seemed  as  if  a  restoration  of  the 
monarchy  would  follow.  This  was  not  to  be,  however,  because  of 
the  reaction  that  such  an  outcome  could  have  provoked  among  a 
substantial  number  of  republicans  within  the  officer  corps.  Car- 
mona, who  was  both  a  republican  and  a  devout  Catholic,  was  ac- 
ceptable to  a  broad  range  of  views.  He  carefully  preserved  a  balance 
between  pro-  and  antimonarchists  and  pro-  and  anticlerical  officers 
in  order  to  ensure  that  the  military  regime  would  survive.  On  March 
25,  1928,  General  Carmona  was  elected  to  the  presidency  of  the 
republic  and  appointed  Colonel  Jose  Vicente  de  Freitas,  a  staunch 
republican,  as  prime  minister,  which  virtually  assured  that  the 
monarchy  was  not  going  to  be  restored,  at  least  not  during  the  mili- 
tary dictatorship. 

Carmona  named  Antonio  de  Oliveira  Salazar,  a  professor  of  po- 
litical economy  at  the  University  of  Coimbra,  as  minister  of  finance. 


54 


Historical  Setting 


Salazar  accepted  the  post  on  April  27,  1928,  only  after  he  had 
demanded  and  had  been  granted  complete  control  over  the  expen- 
ditures of  all  government  ministries.  In  his  first  year  at  the  Minis- 
try of  Finance,  he  not  only  balanced  the  budget  but  achieved  a 
surplus,  the  first  since  1913.  He  accomplished  this  feat  by  centraliz- 
ing financial  control,  improving  revenue  collection,  and  cutting 
public  expenditures.  Salazar  remained  minister  of  finance  as  mili- 
tary prime  ministers  came  and  went.  From  his  first  successful  year 
as  minister  of  finance,  Salazar  gradually  came  to  embody  the  finan- 
cial and  political  solution  to  the  turmoil  of  the  military  dictator- 
ship, which  had  not  produced  a  clear  leader.  Salazar  easily 
overshadowed  military  prime  ministers  and  gradually  gained  the 
allegiance  of  Portugal's  young  intellectuals  and  military  officers, 
who  identified  with  his  authoritarian,  antiliberal,  anticommunist 
view  of  the  world.  Moreover,  Salazar' s  ascendancy  was  welcomed 
by  the  church,  which  saw  in  him  a  savior  from  the  anticlericalism 
of  the  republicans.  It  was  also  welcomed  by  the  upper  classes  of 
landowners,  businessmen,  and  bankers,  who  were  grateful  for  his 
success  in  stabilizing  the  economy  after  the  financial  crisis  of  the 
First  Republic. 

The  New  State 

As  Salazar  came  to  be  seen  as  the  civilian  mainstay  of  the  mili- 
tary dictatorship,  he  increasingly  took  it  upon  himself  to  lay  out 
the  country's  political  future.  He  set  forth  his  plans  in  two  key 
speeches,  one  on  May  28,  1930,  and  the  other  on  July  30  of  the 
same  year.  In  the  first,  he  spoke  of  the  need  for  a  new  constitution 
that  would  create  a  strong  authoritarian  political  order,  which  he 
dubbed  the  New  State  (Estado  Novo).  In  the  second,  he  announced 
his  intention  to  establish  such  a  state.  The  military  approved  of 
Salazar' s  speeches,  and  on  July  5,  1932,  after  the  collective  resig- 
nation of  the  government  of  General  Julio  Domingos  de  Oliveira, 
which  had  come  to  power  two  years  earlier,  he  was  appointed  prime 
minister. 

Salazar  came  from  a  peasant  background.  He  had  studied  for 
the  priesthood  before  turning  to  economics  at  the  University  of 
Coimbra,  where  he  received  his  doctorate  in  1918  and  afterward 
taught.  While  a  faculty  member,  he  earned  a  reputation  as  a  scholar 
and  a  writer,  as  well  as  a  leader  in  Catholic  intellectual  and  politi- 
cal movements.  After  taking  up  the  reins  of  government,  he  re- 
tained his  professorial  style,  lecturing  the  cabinet,  his  political 
followers,  and  the  nation.  Salazar  never  married  and  lived  asceti- 
cally.  A  skillful  political  manipulator  with  a  capacity  for  ruthless- 
ness,  he  was  a  respected  rather  than  a  popular  figure. 


55 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


The  period  of  transition  to  the  authoritarian  republic  promised 
after  the  military  takeover  in  1926  ended  in  1933  with  the  adop- 
tion of  a  new  constitution.  The  1933  constitution,  dictated  by  Sala- 
zar,  created  the  New  State,  in  theory  a  corporate  state  representing 
interest  groups  rather  than  individuals.  The  constitution  provided 
for  a  president  directly  elected  for  a  seven-year  term  and  a  prime 
minister  appointed  by  and  responsible  to  the  president.  The  rela- 
tionship of  the  office  of  prime  minister  to  the  presidency  was  an 
ambiguous  one.  Salazar,  continuing  as  prime  minister,  was  head 
of  government.  He  exercised  executive  and  legislative  functions, 
controlled  local  administration,  police,  and  patronage,  and  was  lead- 
er of  the  National  Union  (Uniao  Nacional — UN),  an  umbrella 
group  for  supporters  of  the  regime  and  the  only  legal  political  or- 
ganization. 

The  legislature,  called  the  National  Assembly,  was  restricted  to 
members  of  the  UN.  It  could  initiate  legislation  but  only  concern- 
ing matters  that  did  not  require  government  expenditures.  The 
parallel  Corporative  Chamber  included  representatives  of  cultur- 
al and  professional  groups  and  of  the  official  workers'  syndicates 
that  replaced  free  trade  unions. 

Women  were  given  the  vote  for  the  first  time,  but  literacy  and 
property  qualifications  limited  the  enfranchised  segment  of  the 
population  to  about  20  percent,  somewhat  higher  than  under  the 
parliamentary  regime.  Elections  were  held  regularly,  without  op- 
position. 

In  1945  Salazar  introduced  so-called  democratic  measures,  in- 
cluding an  amnesty  for  political  prisoners  and  a  loosening  of  cen- 
sorship, that  were  believed  by  liberals  to  represent  a  move  toward 
democratic  government.  In  the  parliamentary  election  that  year, 
the  opposition  formed  the  broadly  based  Movement  of  Democrat- 
ic Unity  (Movimento  de  Unidade  Democratica — MUD),  which 
brought  democrats  together  with  fascists  and  communists.  The  op- 
position withdrew  before  the  election,  however,  charging  that  the 
government  intended  to  manipulate  votes.  General  Norton  de  Ma- 
tos,  a  candidate  who  opposed  Carmona  in  the  1949  presidential 
election,  pulled  out  on  the  same  grounds.  In  1958  the  eccentric 
General  Humberto  Delgado  ran  against  the  official  candidate, 
Admiral  Americo  Tomas,  representing  the  UN.  Delgado  point- 
edly campaigned  on  the  issue  of  replacing  Salazar  and  won  25  per- 
cent of  the  vote.  After  the  election,  the  rules  were  altered  to  provide 
for  the  legislature  to  choose  the  president. 

Salazar 's  was  a  low-keyed  personalist  rule.  The  New  State  was 
his  and  not  a  forum  for  a  party  or  ideology.  Although  intensely 
patriotic,  he  was  cynical  about  the  Portuguese  national  character 


56 


that  in  his  mind  made  the  people  easy  prey  for  demagogues.  He 
avoided  opportunities  to  politicize  public  life  and  appeared  uncom- 
fortable with  the  political  groups  that  were  eventually  introduced 
to  mobilize  opinion  on  the  side  of  the  regime's  policies.  Politics 
in  Salazar's  Portugal  consisted  of  balancing  power  blocs  within  the 
country — the  military,  business  and  commerce,  landholders,  colonial 
interests,  and  the  church.  All  political  parties  were  banned.  The 
UN,  officially  a  civic  association,  encouraged  public  apathy  rather 
than  political  involvement.  Its  leadership  was  composed  of  a  small 
political  and  commercial  elite,  and  contacts  within  ruling  circles 
were  usually  made  on  an  informal,  personal  basis,  rather  than 
through  official  channels.  Within  the  circle,  it  was  possible  to  dis- 
cuss and  criticize  policy,  but  no  channels  for  expression  existed  out- 
side the  circle. 

The  UN  had  no  guiding  philosophy  apart  from  support  for  Sala- 
zar.  The  tenets  of  the  regime  were  said  to  be  authoritarian  govern- 
ment, patriotic  unity,  Christian  morality,  and  the  work  ethic. 
Despite  a  great  deal  of  deference  paid  to  the  theory  of  the  corporate 
state,  these  tenets  were  essentially  the  extent  of  the  regime's  ideo- 
logical content.  Although  the  regime  indulged  in  rallies  and  youth 
movements  with  the  trappings  of  fascist  salutes  and  parapherna- 
lia, it  was  satisfied  to  direct  public  enthusiasm  into  "fado,  Fati- 
ma,  and  football" — music,  religion,  and  sports. 


57 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

A  devout  Roman  Catholic,  Salazar  sought  a  rapprochement  with 
the  church  in  Portugal.  A  concordat  with  the  Vatican  in  1940  rein- 
troduced state  aid  to  Roman  Catholic  education,  but  Salazar  resisted 
involving  the  church — which  he  called  "the  great  source  of  our  na- 
tional life" — in  political  questions.  His  policies  were  aimed  essen- 
tially at  healing  the  divisions  caused  within  Portuguese  society  by 
generations  of  anticlericalism.  Although  the  church  had  consistently 
supported  Salazar,  the  regime  came  under  increasing  criticism  by 
progressive  elements  in  the  clergy  in  the  1960s.  One  such  incident 
led  to  the  expulsion  of  the  bishop  of  Porto. 

Whatever  may  be  said  of  h'is  political  methods,  Salazar  had  an 
exceptional  grasp  of  the  techniques  of  fiscal  management  and, 
within  the  limits  that  he  had  set  for  the  regime,  his  program  of 
economic  recovery  succeeded.  Portugal's  overriding  problem  in 
1926  had  been  its  enormous  public  debt.  Salazar's  solution  was 
to  achieve  financial  solvency  by  balancing  the  national  budget  and 
reducing  external  debt.  This  solution  required  a  strong  govern- 
ment capable  of  cutting  public  expenditures  and  reducing  domes- 
tic consumption  by  raising  taxes  and  controlling  credit  and  trade. 
In  a  few  years  Salazar  singlemindedly  achieved  a  solvent  curren- 
cy, a  favorable  balance  of  trade,  and  surpluses  both  in  foreign 
reserves  and  in  the  national  budget. 

The  bulk  of  the  Portuguese  remained  among  the  poorest  people 
in  Europe,  however.  The  austerity  that  Salazar's  fiscal  and  eco- 
nomic policies  demanded  weighed  most  heavily  on  the  working  class 
and  the  rural  poor,  forestalling  the  development  that  would  raise 
their  standards  of  living.  Outside  the  cities,  traditional  patterns  of 
life  persisted,  especially  in  the  conservative  north,  which  had  been 
stabilized  by  evenly  distributed  poverty  and  was  a  stronghold  of 
support  for  the  regime.  To  create  an  atmosphere  of  rising  expec- 
tations without  having  the  means  to  satisfy  them,  Salazar  argued, 
would  return  the  country  to  the  chaotic  conditions  Portugal  had 
known  earlier  in  the  century. 

Stable  government  and  a  solvent  economy  would  eventually  at- 
tract foreign  investment  regardless  of  the  attitude  abroad  to  the 
nature  of  Salazar's  regime.  Cheap  labor  and  the  promise  of  com- 
petitive prices  for  Portuguese-made  goods  provided  an  incentive 
for  investment,  particularly  in  labor-intensive  production,  which 
was  becoming  uneconomic  in  Northern  Europe.  Priority  was  given, 
however,  to  colonial  development.  Salazar  insisted  that  the  over- 
seas territories  be  made  to  pay  for  themselves  and  also  to  provide 
the  trade  surpluses  required  by  Portugal  to  import  the  essentials 
that  it  could  not  produce  itself.  In  essence,  he  updated  Portuguese 


58 


Historical  Setting 


mercantilist  policy:  colonial  goods  were  sold  abroad  to  create  a  sur- 
plus at  home. 

In  the  years  before  World  War  II,  Salazar  cultivated  good  rela- 
tions with  all  major  powers  except  the  Soviet  Union.  Intent  on 
preserving  Portuguese  neutrality,  he  had  entered  into  a  noninter- 
vention convention  with  the  European  powers  during  the  Spanish 
Civil  War  (1936-39);  however,  Soviet  activity  in  Spain  and  the 
leftward  course  of  the  Spanish  Republic  persuaded  him  to  support 
Francisco  Franco's  nationalists,  with  whom  more  than  20,000  Por- 
tuguese volunteers  served.  The  war  in  Spain  also  prompted  Sala- 
zar to  mobilize  a  political  militia,  the  Portuguese  Legion,  as  a 
counterweight  to  the  army. 

Although  he  admired  Benito  Mussolini  for  his  equitable  settle- 
ment of  Italy's  church-state  conflict,  Salazar  found  the  "pagan" 
elements  in  German  Nazism  repugnant.  He  opposed  appeasement, 
protested  the  German  invasion  of  Poland  in  1939,  and  would  ap- 
pear to  have  been  among  the  first,  with  Winston  Churchill,  to  ex- 
press confidence  in  ultimate  Allied  victory  as  early  as  1940.  Portugal 
remained  neutral  during  World  War  II,  but  the  Anglo-Portuguese 
alliance  was  kept  intact,  Britain  pledging  to  protect  Portuguese  neu- 
trality. The  United  States  and  Britain  were  granted  bases  in  the 
Azores  after  1943,  and  Portuguese  colonial  products — copper  and 
chromium — were  funneled  into  Allied  war  production.  Macau  and 
Timor  were  occupied  by  Japan  from  1941  to  1945. 

Portugal  became  a  charter  member  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty 
Organization  (NATO)  in  1949,  and  in  1971  Lisbon  became  head- 
quarters for  NATO's  Iberian  Atlantic  Command  (IBERLANT). 
Portugal  also  maintained  a  defensive  military  alliance  (the  Iberian 
Pact,  also  known  as  the  Treaty  of  Friendship  and  Nonaggression) 
with  Spain  that  dated  from  1939.  Admission  to  the  United  Na- 
tions (UN)  was  blocked  by  the  Soviet  Union  until  1955.  In  1961 
Indian  armed  forces  invaded  and  seized  Goa,  which  had  been  Por- 
tuguese since  1510. 

Into  the  early  twentieth  century,  the  European  settler  commu- 
nities in  Portuguese  Africa  had  virtual  autonomy,  and  colonial 
administrations  were  perpetually  bankrupt.  Lisbon's  concern  in 
Angola  and  Mozambique  was  to  make  good  the  Portuguese  claim 
to  those  territories,  and  pacification  of  the  interior  was  still  under- 
way in  the  1930s.  Control  over  the  colonies  was  tightened  under 
Salazar. 

The  Colonial  Act  of  1930  stated  that  Portugal  and  its  colonies 
were  interdependent  entities.  The  New  State  insisted  on  increased 
production  and  better  marketing  of  colonial  goods  to  make  the 
overseas  territories  self-supporting  and  to  halt  the  drain  on  the 


59 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Portuguese  treasury  for  their  defense  and  maintenance.  New  land 
was  opened  for  settlement,  and  emigration  to  the  colonies  was  en- 
couraged. 

Portugal  ignored  the  UN  declaration  on  colonialism  in  1960, 
which  called  on  the  colonial  powers  to  relinquish  control  of  depen- 
dent territories.  Angola,  Mozambique,  and  Guinea  were  made 
provinces  with  the  same  status  as  those  in  metropolitan  Portugal 
by  constitutional  amendment  in  1951 .  Armed  resistance  to  the  Por- 
tuguese colonial  administration  broke  out  in  Angola  in  1961  and 
had  spread  by  1964  to  Mozambique  and  Guinea.  By  1974  Portu- 
gal had  committed  approximately  140,000  troops,  or  80  percent 
of  its  available  military  forces,  to  Africa;  some  60  percent  of  these 
were  African.  Portuguese  combat  casualties  were  relatively  light, 
and  fighting  consisted  of  small-unit  action  in  border  areas  far  from 
population  centers.  Only  in  Guinea  did  rebel  troops  control  sub- 
stantial territory.  Portuguese  forces  appeared  to  have  contained 
the  insurgencies,  and  although  large  numbers  of  troops  were  re- 
quired to  hold  the  territory,  Portugal  seemed  to  some  observers 
capable  of  sustaining  military  activity  in  Africa  indefinitely.  These 
same  observers  considered  that,  from  a  military  standpoint,  the 
wars  had  been  won. 

The  wars  did  not  interrupt  the  colonial  production  on  which  Por- 
tuguese economic  stability  depended.  Indeed,  they  had  provided 
a  windfall  to  economic  development  in  Angola  and  Mozambique, 
both  with  large  settler  communities.  A  large  rural  development 
project  was  underway  in  the  Cahora  Bassa  region  of  Mozambique, 
as  was  the  exploitation  of  oil  in  Cabinda  enclave  near  Angola.  More 
colonial  income  was  being  diverted  into  social  services  for  Afri- 
cans and  Europeans,  and  in  areas  of  medicine  and  education  bet- 
ter facilities  were  thought  to  be  available  in  Luanda  and  Lourenco 
Marques  (now  Maputo)  than  in  Lisbon.  However,  forced  native 
labor  remained  a  factor  in  the  economic  development  of  Portuguese 
Africa  into  the  1960s.  Foreign  investment  capital  often  came  to 
the  colonies  from  countries  whose  governments  had  officially  con- 
demned Portuguese  colonialism. 

No  one  except  Pombal  left  so  broad  a  mark  on  modern  Por- 
tuguese history  as  Salazar.  For  nearly  forty  years,  he  completely 
dominated  Portuguese  government  and  politics.  He  died  on  July 
27,  1970,  more  than  two  years  after  suffering  an  incapacitating 
stroke  brought  on  by  a  freak  accident. 

The  Social  State 

President  Tomas  appointed  Marcello  Jose  das  Neves  Caetano 
to  succeed  Salazar  as  prime  minister,  although  the  regime  did  not 


60 


Historical  Setting 


admit  for  some  time  that  Salazar  would  not  be  returning  to  pow- 
er. Caetano  was  a  teacher,  jurist,  and  scholar  of  international  repu- 
tation who  had  been  one  of  the  drafters  of  the  1933  constitution. 
Considered  a  moderate  within  the  regime,  he  had  taken  unpopu- 
lar stands  in  opposition  to  Salazar.  He  had  resigned  as  rector  of 
Lisbon  University  in  1960  in  protest  over  police  repression  of  stu- 
dent demonstrations.  Unlike  Salazar  he  came  from  the  upper  middle 
class,  was  ebullient  and  personable,  and  sought  contact  with  the 
people. 

It  was  clear  from  the  start  that  Caetano  was  a  different  sort  of 
leader.  He  spoke  of  "evolution  within  continuity,"  change  fast 
enough  to  keep  up  with  expectations  but  not  so  fast  as  to  antagonize 
conservatives.  He  brought  technocrats  into  the  government  and 
eased  police  repression.  The  elections  held  in  1969  were  the  freest 
in  decades.  He  even  altered  the  nomenclature  of  the  regime;  the 
New  State  became  the  Social  State,  but  it  remained  essentially  an 
authoritarian  regime. 

In  contrast  to  Salazar,  Caetano  advocated  an  expansionist  eco- 
nomic policy  and  promoted  rapid  development  and  increasing 
consumption  without,  however,  supplementing  the  means  of 
production.  The  consequence  of  liberalization  was  the  first  per- 
ceptible inflation  in  years,  reaching  15  percent  on  such  working- 
class  staples  as  codfish  and  rice  in  the  early  1970s. 

Prime  Minister  Caetano  had  inherited  Salazar' s  office  but  not 
his  power  nor,  apparently,  his  skill  as  a  politician  and  economist. 
President  Tomas,  meanwhile,  had  emerged  with  greater  authority, 
as  Salazar' s  death  put  him  in  a  position  to  exercise  the  constitu- 
tional authority  of  the  presidency  to  the  fullest.  Deeply  conserva- 
tive and  supported  by  an  entrenched  right  wing  within  the  official 
political  movement,  Tomas  employed  threats  of  an  army  coup  to 
oppose  Caetano 's  policy  of  liberalization.  Caetano  took  a  harder 
line  on  Africa  in  an  effort  to  head  off  opposition  by  the  president 
and  the  officers  close  to  him. 

As  the  events  of  spring  1974  were  to  demonstrate,  the  regimes 
of  Salazar' s  New  State  and  Caetano 's  Social  State  had  depended 
on  personalities.  In  existence  for  nearly  fifty  years,  the  institutions 
of  the  corporate  state  had  never  put  down  roots  in  Portuguese  po- 
litical soil.  Apathy  had  not  implied  support.  On  April  25,  1974, 
the  officers  and  men  of  the  Armed  Forces  Movement  (Movimen- 
to  das  Forcas  Armadas — MFA)  ousted  Caetano  and  Tomas,  pav- 
ing the  way  for  a  junta  under  General  Antonio  de  Spmola  to  take 
command  of  the  Portuguese  Republic. 

*    *  * 


61 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

A  comprehensive  introduction  to  the  history  of  the  Iberian  Penin- 
sula is  a  two- volume  study  by  Stanley  G.  Payne,  A  History  of  Spain 
and  Portugal.  The  best  history  of  Portugal  in  the  English  language 
up  to  the  First  Republic  is  H.  V.  Livermore's  A  New  History  of  Por- 
tugal. A  succinct  survey  of  Portugal's  overseas  empire  is  C.R.  Box- 
er's Four  Centuries  of  Portuguese  Expansion,  1415-1825.  Douglas  L. 
Wheeler  provides  a  thorough  treatment  of  the  First  Republic  in 
Republican  Portugal.  A  sympathetic  portrait  of  Antonio  de  Oliveira 
Salazar  can  be  found  in  Hugh  Kay's  Salazar  and  Modern  Portugal. 
Salazar's  New  State  is  analyzed  by  Howard  J.  Wiarda  in  Corporatism 
and  Development  and  by  Tom  Gallagher  in  Portugal:  A  Twentieth- 
Century  Interpretation.  The  standard  history  of  Portugal  in  Africa  is 
James  Duffy's  Portuguese  Africa.  Walter  C.  Opello,  Jr.  covers  re- 
cent history  in  his  book,  Portugal:  From  Monarchy  to  Pluralist  Democracy. 
(For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


62 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Monsaraz,  a  medieval  village  near  the  Spanish  frontier 


AS  A  RESULT  OF  CHANGES  wrought  by  the  Revolution  of 
1974,  Portugal  in  the  1990s  would  be  almost  unrecognizable  to  per- 
sons who  knew  the  country  twenty  or  thirty  years  ago.  The  Revo- 
lution of  1974  set  loose  social  and  political  forces  that  the  country 
had  not  seen  before  on  such  a  large  scale  and  which  could  not  be 
entirely  controlled.  The  revolution,  in  turn,  had  occurred  and  had 
such  a  profound  impact  because  of  other,  gradual  social  pressures 
that  had  been  building  for  decades  and  even  centuries.  In  the 
mid-1970s,  these  changes  exploded  to  the  surface.  In  the  aftermath 
of  the  revolution,  as  Portuguese  society  continued  to  modernize 
and  the  country  was  admitted  as  a  full  member  of  the  European 
Community  (EC — see  Glossary),  social  change  continued,  but  not 
so  frenetically  and  dramatically  as  during  the  revolutionary 
mid-1970s. 

Before  1974  Portugal  was  a  highly  traditional  society.  It  resem- 
bled what  historian  Barbara  Tuchman  has  called  the  "Proud  Tow- 
er" of  pre- World  War  I  European  society.  Class  and  social  divisions 
were  tightly  drawn  and  defined,  society  was  organized  on  a  rigidly 
hierarchical  and  authoritarian  basis,  and  social  relations  were  often 
stiff  and  formal.  One  was  born  into  a  certain  station  in  life  and 
was  expected  to  stay  there  and  to  accept  that  fact;  social  mobility 
was  limited.  Class  standing  and  class  relations  were  clearly  delineat- 
ed by  criteria  of  birth,  dress,  speech,  and  manner  of  behavior. 
Visitors  often  remarked  that  in  Portugal  one  could  still  find  a 
nineteenth-century  society  existing  within  a  twentieth-century 
context. 

Even  within  this  rigid,  very  conservative,  and  traditionalist 
society,  however,  considerable  change  was  beginning  to  occur, 
particularly  during  the  1960s  as  economic  development  accelerat- 
ed. The  trade  unions  had  grown  in  size  and  assertiveness.  The  mid- 
dle class  was  emerging  as  a  numerically  larger  and  sociologically 
more  important  element  than  before.  A  new  business-industrial 
class  had  grown  up  alongside,  and  frequently  overlapped  with,  the 
more  traditional  landed  and  noble  class.  In  addition,  Portugal  ex- 
perienced urbanization;  at  the  same  time,  many  Portuguese  left 
the  country  in  search  of  better  opportunities  abroad.  Literacy  was 
also  rising,  though  slowly.  As  modernization  and  social  change  be- 
gan to  accelerate  in  the  1960s  and  early  1970s,  discontent  with  the 
closed  and  authoritarian  regime  of  Antonio  de  Oliveira  Salazar 
(1928-68)  and  his  successor  Marcello  Jose  das  Neves  Caetano 


65 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

(1968-74)  also  began  to  mount.  These  and  other  pressures  culmi- 
nated in  the  Revolution  of  1974. 

Following  the  revolution,  which  led  to  the  establishment  of 
democracy  in  Portugal,  societal  pressures  continued.  Pressures  for 
education,  land,  jobs,  better  health  care,  housing,  social  equality, 
and  solutions  to  Portugal's  pressing  social  problems  mounted.  Por- 
tugal remained,  even  with  the  economic  growth  of  the  1980s  and 
early  1990s,  a  poor  country  compared  to  West  European  standards. 
Moreover,  rising  expectations  were  threatening  to  overwhelm  the 
democratic  regime's  capacities  for  resolving  the  problems.  Portu- 
gal's full  economic  participation  in  the  EC  at  the  end  of  1992,  at 
which  time  it  would  no  longer  have  the  protection  of  high  tariff 
barriers,  added  to  social  tensions  and  uncertainties.  Thus,  as  Por- 
tugal began  the  1990s,  the  promise  of  a  new,  stable,  democratic 
era  of  development  coexisted  with  a  fear  of  what  the  future  might 
bring. 

The  Physical  Environment 

Portugal  shares  the  Iberian  Peninsula  with  Spain,  although  it 
is  only  about  one-sixth  as  large  as  its  neighbor.  Including  the  Azores 
(Acores)  and  Madeira,  the  country  has  a  total  area  of  92,080  square 
kilometers.  Portugal  lies  on  the  westernmost  promontory  of  con- 
tinental Europe.  The  rugged  Pyrenees  Mountains  separate  Iberia 
from  the  heart  of  the  European  continent,  and  Portugal  is  even 
farther  distant  across  the  vastness  of  Spain.  Distance  and  isolation 
have  created  in  Portugal  a  sense  that  it  is  a  part  of  Europe  geographi- 
cally but  apart  from  it  culturally,  socially,  economically,  political- 
ly, and  even  psychologically.  Even  in  the  early  1990s,  Lisbon 
(Lisboa)  was  a  two-to-three-day  drive  from  Paris. 

Portugal  is  bounded  on  the  west  and  south  by  the  Atlantic  Ocean 
and  on  the  north  and  east  by  Spain.  The  country's  shape  is  roughly 
that  of  a  rectangle,  with  its  short  sides  on  the  north  and  south  and 
its  long  sides  on  the  east  and  west.  Portugal's  Atlantic  coastline 
is  837  kilometers  long;  its  northern  and  eastern  frontiers  with  Spain 
are  336  and  839  kilometers  long,  respectively. 

Historically,  Portugal  emerged  as  a  separate  country  during  cen- 
turies of  struggle  with  the  Spanish  provinces  of  Leon  and  Castile. 
Even  hundreds  of  years  after  Portugal  broke  away  from  Spain  for 
the  last  time  in  1640,  fears  remained  in  the  country  that  it  might 
one  day  be  swallowed  up  by  larger  and  more  powerful  Spain, 
perhaps  not  militarily,  but  culturally  and  economically.  That  sen- 
timent is  expressed  by  the  Portuguese  proverb  that  "neither  a  good 
wind  nor  a  good  marriage  ever  come  from  Spain."  Meanwhile, 
Portugal's  long  coast  had  given  it  an  "Atlantic  vocation"  and 


66 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


propelled  its  historic  ventures  of  global  exploration  and  coloni- 
zation. 

Portugal  is  not  a  homogeneous  country  geographically.  The  physi- 
cal environment  varies  enormously,  creating  several  distinct  geo- 
graphic regions  that,  in  turn,  have  shaped  the  culture  of  the  people 
and  their  economy  and  society.  Northern  Portugal  is  a  moun- 
tainous, rainy  region,  characterized  by  many  small  farms  and  vine- 
yards. The  Portuguese  nation  began  in  this  region,  fending  off  Leon 
and  Castile  while  simultaneously  driving  the  Moors  south  and  even- 
tually out  of  the  peninsula.  It  is  a  desolate  area  of  rocky  hillsides 
where  smallholders  have  eked  out  a  meager  existence  for  hundreds 
of  years.  This  region  is  also  said  to  be  the  origin  of  the  strongest 
Portuguese  national  values  of  hard  work,  thrift,  traditionalism,  Ro- 
man Catholicism,  and  practicality.  It  is  also  an  area,  however,  that 
has  lost  many  of  its  inhabitants  through  emigration. 

Central  Portugal,  between  the  Rio  Douro  in  the  north  and  the 
Tagus  River  (Rio  Tejo),  including  the  capital  city  of  Lisbon  and 
its  environs,  is  less  homogeneous.  The  central  coastal  region  con- 
sists of  dunes  and  pine  forests,  and  many  residents  of  the  area  earn 
their  livelihood  from  fishing.  The  central  eastern  areas,  known  as 
the  Beira,  consist  mainly  of  small  and  medium-sized  farms,  with 
some  mining  and  light  industry.  The  greater  Lisbon  area,  includ- 
ing both  the  city  and  its  suburbs,  accounts  for  most  of  the  nation's 
commerce  and  much  of  its  industry. 

Southern  Portugal,  known  as  the  Alentejo  (literally,  ''beyond 
the  Tagus")  is  an  area  of  gently  rolling  hills  and  plains  dominated 
by  extensive  estates  with  large-scale  agriculture  and  grazing.  It  was 
traditionally  also  a  land  of  often  embittered  tenant  farmers  and 
peasants.  In  contrast  to  the  conservative  north,  the  Alentejo  was 
an  area  of  radical  political  movements;  for  a  long  time,  the  Por- 
tuguese Communist  Party  (Partido  Comunista  Portugues — PCP) 
was  the  strongest  party  in  the  region. 

The  extreme  south  of  Portugal  is  known  as  the  Algarve.  It  is 
a  dry  region  of  smallholdings,  grazing,  and  fishing,  and  coastal 
towns.  This  is  the  area  of  Portugal  most  strongly  influenced  by 
the  Moors;  even  today  Moorish  influence  is  present  in  the  region's 
dialect  and  architecture.  With  its  warm  climate  and  Mediterrane- 
an sky,  the  Algarve  has  also  become  a  center  for  tourism  and  a 
home  to  many  foreign  retirees. 

Historically,  Portugal  was  divided  administratively  into  six 
provinces  that  corresponded  closely  to  these  natural  geographic  di- 
visions (see  fig.  4).  The  north  consisted  of  two  provinces,  the  coastal 
Minho  and  the  interior  Tras-os-Montes.  The  center  was  made  up 
of  Beira  and  Estremadura,  and  the  south  consisted  of  the  Alentejo 


67 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

,        :       —  ■         —      —     ■       ■      ■  ■  ■        ■  —  ■ 


Figure  4.  Historical  Regions 

and  the  Algarve.  Later  these  historical  provinces  were  further  sub- 
divided for  administrative  purposes,  but  the  historical  names  have 
been  retained  in  popular  usage  (see  fig.  1). 

Even  though  it  is  a  small  country,  Portugal  has  a  wide  variety 
of  landforms,  climatic  conditions,  and  soils.  The  major  difference 
is  between  the  mountainous  regions  of  the  north  and,  across  the 
Tagus  River,  the  great  rolling  plains  of  the  south.  Within  these 
two  major  regions  are  further  subdivisions  that  reflect  the  country's 


68 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


vast  differences.  The  Minho  and  Tras-os-Montes  are  both  moun- 
tainous, but  whereas  the  former  is  green  with  abundant  rainfall, 
the  latter  is  dry  and  parched.  The  Beira  Litoral  and  Estremadura 
are  younger  geologically  and  contain  sandstone,  limestone,  and  vol- 
canic rock.  Beira  Alta  (Upper  Beira)  is  mountainous  and  forms 
a  barrier  across  the  center  of  Portugal,  but  Beira  Baixa  (Lower 
Beira)  is  dry  and  windswept,  an  extension  of  the  Spanish  plateau. 
The  Alentejo  consists  of  gentle  hills  and  plains.  Because  it  is  one 
of  the  driest  areas  in  the  country,  it  is  not  suitable  for  intensive 
agriculture.  The  area  does  support  cattle  raising,  as  well  as  cork 
oak  and  some  grains.  It  is  separated  from  the  Algarve  by  two  moun- 
tain ranges,  the  Serra  de  Monchique  and  the  Serra  do  Caldeirao. 

Geography  and  topography  are  also  reflected  in  the  climate.  The 
mountainous  regions  of  the  north  are  considerably  colder  than  the 
south.  Winter  snows  in  the  Serra  da  Estrela  (which  contains  Por- 
tugal's highest  peak  at  1,986  meters)  and  the  Serra  do  Geres  near 
the  northern  Spanish  border  may  block  roads  for  a  time.  The 
weather  along  the  northern  coasts  and  in  the  center  of  the  country 
is  milder;  Lisbon  has  an  average  high  temperature  of  14°C  in  Janu- 
ary and  27°C  in  August.  Southern  Portugal  is  warmer.  The  ocean 
moderates  coastal  temperatures,  but  the  interior  of  the  Alentejo 
can  be  quite  warm,  with  temperatures  sometimes  above  40 °C  dur- 
ing the  summer  months.  Because  of  its  Mediterranean  climate,  most 
of  Portugal's  rainfall  occurs  in  the  winter,  the  north  receiving  much 
more  rain  than  the  south. 

Portugal  has  ten  major  rivers,  five  of  which  have  their  origins 
in  Spain.  The  Rio  Minho  begins  in  Spanish  Galicia  and  for  a  dis- 
tance of  seventy-four  kilometers  forms  the  northern  Portuguese 
frontier  with  Spain.  The  Rio  Douro  is  of  great  importance  to  the 
commerce  of  northern  Portugal.  It  also  originates  in  Spain  and  flows 
the  entire  width  of  Portugal  before  emptying  into  the  Atlantic  at 
Porto,  the  country's  second  largest  city.  The  Rio  Douro  is  navigable 
by  small  craft  for  its  full  distance  of  198  kilometers  in  Portugal; 
historically  the  river  was  used  to  transport  casks  of  port  wine  to 
Porto.  Its  steep  banks  are  terraced  with  vineyards,  and  the  valley 
of  the  Rio  Douro  is  one  of  the  most  picturesque  in  all  Portugal. 

The  Tagus  River  is  the  country's  longest  river,  has  the  largest 
drainage  basin,  and  is  the  most  important  economically.  It  is  naviga- 
ble only  eighty  kilometers  upstream,  but  that  includes  the  vast  es- 
tuary on  which  Lisbon  is  located.  The  Tagus  estuary  is  the  best 
natural  port  on  the  European  continent  and  able  to  handle  large 
ocean-going  vessels.  It  also  contains  the  Cacilhas  drydocks,  the 
largest  in  the  world. 


69 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

The  most  important  river  in  the  south  is  the  Rio  Guadiana, 
which,  flowing  north  to  south,  forms  part  of  the  border  with  Spain. 
Other  important  rivers  in  Portugal  include  the  Rio  Lima  and  the 
Rio  Tamega  in  the  north,  the  Rio  Mondego  in  the  center,  and 
the  Rio  Sado  and  Rio  Chanca  in  the  south. 

The  soil  systems  of  Portugal  are  usually  sandy,  arid,  and  acid, 
reflecting  the  soils  of  the  Iberian  Peninsula  generally.  Soil  in  the 
north  can  be  rocky.  Northern  Portugal  is  better  suited  for  agricul- 
ture than  the  south  because  of  abundant  rainfall,  but  with  proper 
irrigation  the  south  could  support  more  intensive  agriculture. 

About  one-fourth  of  Portugal  is  covered  by  forests  (mainly  pine 
and  deciduous  oak);  if  such  cultivated  tree  crops  as  olives,  cork 
oak,  almonds,  chestnuts,  and  citrus  are  counted,  about  one-third 
of  the  country's  area  is  tree  covered.  In  the  northern  mountains, 
pine,  oak,  poplar,  and  elm  trees  are  prevalent.  Vegetation  is  more 
varied  in  the  central  region  and  includes  citrus  trees  and  cork  oak. 
The  warm,  dry  south  contains  many  areas  of  rough  pasture,  as 
well  as  abundant  cork  oak. 

In  addition  to  continental  Portugal,  the  country's  territory  also 
includes  the  Azores  and  Madeira  islands.  The  Azores  consist  of 
nine  inhabited  islands  and  several  uninhabited  rock  outcroppings 
1 ,280  kilometers  west  of  the  mainland  in  the  Atlantic  Ocean.  The 
archipelago  has  an  area  of  2,278  square  kilometers  and  a  popula- 
tion of  about  250,000.  The  Azores  produce  sufficient  foodstuffs  for 
internal  consumption  and  some  exports,  but  they  remain  even  poor- 
er than  the  mainland.  The  Madeira  archipelago,  located  about  560 
kilometers  miles  west  of  North  Africa,  consists  of  two  inhabited 
and  several  uninhabited  islands.  With  a  total  area  of  788  square 
kilometers  and  a  population  of  about  270,000  people,  the  archipela- 
go is  severely  overpopulated  (see  fig.  5). 

Demography 

By  the  early  1990s,  Portugal's  population  was  just  over  10  mil- 
lion, a  little  more  than  triple  the  3.1  million  estimated  to  live  in 
the  country  in  1801.  The  main  causes  for  this  slow  growth  were 
a  high  infant  mortality  rate  for  much  of  these  two  centuries  and 
an  emigration  rate  so  extreme  that  in  one  decade,  the  1960s,  the 
country's  population  actually  fell.  These  trends  have  reversed  in 
recent  decades.  The  country's  infant  mortality  rate  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  1990s — 10  per  1,000  in  1992 — remained  somewhat 
higher  than  the  European  average  but  was  one-fifth  of  that 
registered  two  decades  earlier.  Emigration  also  slowed  markedly 
as  prosperity  appeared  in  Portugal  in  the  second  half  of  the  1980s. 
Moreover,  in  the  second  half  of  the  1970s  a  massive  influx  of 


70 


QoCfo  de  Cddiz 


25 


International  boundary 
National  capital 
Populated  place 
Spot  elevation  in  meters 


100  Kilometers 


50 


75 


100 
Miles 


Figure  5.  Topography  and  Drainage 
72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


refugees  from  former  Portuguese  colonies  in  Africa  caused  a  popu- 
lation surge. 

Population  Size  and  Structure 

Although  population  estimates  are  available  for  earlier  years,  the 
first  official  Portuguese  census  was  taken  in  1864.  It  showed  a  popu- 
lation of  approximately  4.3  million  (see  table  2,  Appendix).  There- 
after, the  population  increased  slowly  at  rates  often  well  under  1 
percent  per  year.  Only  during  the  1930s  and  1940s  did  the  popu- 
lation increase  at  over  1  percent  per  year.  During  the  1960s,  the 
population  actually  fell  by  over  300,000  and  in  1970  amounted  to 
about  8.5  million.  During  the  early  1970s,  population  continued 
to  fall  or  was  stagnant.  This  demographic  trend  was  the  result  of 
widespread  emigration.  Many  Portuguese  left  their  country  in  these 
years  to  find  employment  abroad  or  to  avoid  military  service  in 
the  wars  Portugal  was  fighting  in  its  colonies  in  Africa. 

In  1974  the  country's  population  showed  its  first  sizeable  increase 
and  by  1981  reached  nearly  9.8  million,  1.2  million  more  than  it 
had  been  ten  years  earlier.  The  settling  in  Portugal  of  an  estimated 
500,000  to  800,000  refugees  from  the  country's  African  colonies 
accounted  for  most  of  this  increase.  During  the  first  half  of  the  1980s, 
the  population  grew  at  a  rate  of  about  0.8  percent  a  year,  then 
declined.  As  of  the  early  1990s,  population  growth  was  estimated 
at  0.4  percent  a  year.  By  the  beginning  of  1992,  the  population 
of  Portugal,  including  the  Azores  and  Madeira,  was  estimated  at 
nearly  10.5  million.  Population  specialists  projected  that  if  exist- 
ing trends  continued,  the  country's  population  would  peak  at  10.8 
million  in  2010  and  fall  to  10.5  in  2025. 

This  population  is  not  evenly  distributed.  As  of  the  late  1980s, 
continental  Portugal  had  an  average  population  density  of  109.6 
persons  per  square  kilometer,  but  some  districts  were  much  more 
crowded  than  others.  The  eastern  districts  bordering  Spain,  with 
the  exception  of  Faro,  had  the  lowest  population  density,  ranging 
between  17.0  per  square  kilometer  in  Beja  and  35.6  per  square 
kilometer  in  Guarda.  Coastal  districts  from  the  northern  border 
down  to  and  including  Setubal  registered  the  highest  concentra- 
tions of  people.  The  districts  of  Lisbon  and  Porto,  with  770.2  and 
697.5  persons  per  square  kilometer,  respectively,  were  as  densely 
populated  as  many  urban  regions  of  Northern  Europe  (see  table 
3,  Appendix). 

Some  of  these  differences  in  population  density  result  from  to- 
pography. Mountainous  regions  typically  contain  fewer  people 
than  flat  coastal  regions.  But  some  differences  result  from  migra- 
tion from  one  area  to  another  within  Portugal  or  from  migration 


73 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

abroad.  During  the  period  191 1-89,  five  districts,  all  of  them  border- 
ing Spain  in  the  east,  lost  population:  Guarda  lost  about  one-fourth 
of  its  population,  Beja  and  Castelo  Branco  lost  about  one-tenth, 
and  Braganga  and  Portalegre  each  lost  about  one-twentieth.  The 
only  eastern  district  posting  a  gain  in  this  period  was  Evora,  which 
grew  by  about  one-sixth.  Two  inland  districts,  Vila  Real  and  Viseu, 
showed  almost  no  growth;  another  inland  district,  Santarem,  with 
significant  industrial  employment,  grew  by  one-half.  All  coastal 
districts  gained  in  population  during  this  period.  Coimbra  and  Faro 
grew  by  one-fourth,  Aveiro  and  Braga  doubled  their  populations, 
the  districts  of  Lisbon  and  Porto  increased  by  two-and-one-half 
times,  and  Setubal  increased  more  than  three  times.  The  Azores 
showed  almost  no  gain  in  population,  but  that  of  Madeira  grew 
by  two-thirds. 

The  main  areas  of  population  growth  were  urban  centers  and 
the  district  capitals.  The  urban-industrial  centers  along  the  coast — 
Lisbon,  Porto,  and  Setubal — took  in  the  largest  numbers  of  new 
immigrants.  However,  only  the  cities  of  Lisbon  and  Porto  had  sig- 
nificant populations,  approximately  830,000  and  350,000,  respec- 
tively, at  the  end  of  the  1980s.  They  were  followed  by  Amadora 
with  96,000  (part  of  greater  Lisbon),  Setubal  with  78,000,  and 
Coimbra  with  75,000.  At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  therefore, 
some  two-thirds  of  all  Portuguese  still  lived  in  what  were  classified 
as  rural  areas  despite  the  significant  growth  of  some  urban  areas. 

The  Lisbon  area  was  the  region  of  greatest  population  growth 
in  absolute  terms,  in  part  because  it  was  the  seat  of  much  of  the 
country's  governmental  apparatus,  as  well  as  its  manufacturing 
and  service-sector  jobs.  Until  the  1960s,  the  area's  population  in- 
creases were  mainly  inside  the  city  of  Lisbon,  but  since  then  the 
suburbs  have  grown  most  rapidly.  The  central  city's  population 
remained  largely  stagnant  or  even  declined  in  some  years,  whereas 
that  of  the  suburbs  surged.  High  city  rents,  crowding,  the  decline 
of  old  neighborhoods,  pollution,  and  the  squeezing  out  of  housing 
by  commercial  enterprises  were  among  the  causes  of  this  new  subur- 
banization of  Lisbon's  outlying  districts. 

Government  population  estimates  showed  that  in  the  late  1980s 
women  outnumbered  men  by  a  wide  margin  and  that  the  number 
of  old  persons  in  Portugal  was  unusually  high.  The  1864  census 
and  every  census  since  has  shown  that  women  outnumber  men. 
In  1988  this  was  the  case  in  all  but  two  of  the  districts  of  continen- 
tal Portugal,  Beja  and  Braganga.  The  greatest  disproportions  were 
found  in  northern  and  central  areas  where  male  emigration  was 
most  intense.  However,  during  the  1980s,  men  formed  the  majority 
in  twenty-two  of  the  country's  305  municipalities.  Eighteen  of  these 


74 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


statistically  unusual  municipalities  were  in  southern  Portugal. 

Portugal  has  long  had  an  aging  population.  The  percentage  of 
the  population  under  age  thirty  has  been  decreasing  since  1900. 
Moreover,  the  rate  at  which  the  country's  population  has  aged  ac- 
celerated as  ever  more  young  Portuguese  males  in  their  physical 
prime  left  the  country.  Between  1960  and  1990,  the  percentage  of 
those  under  fifteen  fell  from  29.0  to  20.9,  whereas  the  percentage 
of  those  sixty-five  and  older  rose  from  8.1  to  13.1.  The  north  had 
a  disproportionate  number  of  old  and  very  young  people,  mainly 
those  still  too  young  to  migrate.  In  some  areas  of  Portugal  where 
employment  has  been  available,  this  preponderance  was  not  the 
case.  Lisbon  and  the  growth  areas  of  Santarem  and  Setubal  had 
a  disproportionate  share  of  those  of  working  age,  between  twenty 
and  sixty-five  (see  fig.  6). 

Emigration 

Portugal  has  long  been  a  nation  whose  people  emigrated.  So- 
cially significant  emigration  first  occurred  in  the  fifteenth  century 
and  sixteenth  century  during  the  great  explorations.  Although  the 
Portuguese  established  trading  posts  at  many  places  in  Africa  and 
Asia,  Brazil  was  the  main  colony  of  settlement.  Later,  numbers 
of  Portuguese  settled  in  the  African  colonies  of  Angola  and  Mozam- 
bique. 

Emigration  on  a  massive  scale  began  in  the  second  half  of  the 
nineteenth  century  and  continued  into  the  1980s.  Between  1886 
and  1966,  Portugal  lost  an  estimated  2.6  million  people  to  emigra- 
tion, more  than  any  West  European  country  except  Ireland. 
Emigration  remained  high  until  1973  and  the  first  oil  shock  that 
slowed  the  economies  of  West  European  nations  and  reduced  em- 
ployment opportunities  for  Portuguese  workers.  Since  then,  emigra- 
tion has  been  moderate,  ranging  between  12,000  and  17,000  a  year 
in  the  1980s,  a  fraction  of  the  emigration  that  occurred  during  the 
1960s  and  early  1970s. 

The  main  motive  for  emigration,  at  least  in  modern  times,  was 
economic.  Portugal  had  long  been  one  of  the  poorest  countries  in 
Europe.  With  the  countryside  able  to  support  only  a  portion  of  farm- 
ers' offspring  and  few  opportunities  in  the  manufacturing  sector, 
many  Portuguese  had  to  go  abroad  to  find  work.  In  northern  Por- 
tugal, for  example,  many  young  men  emigrated  because  the  land 
was  divided  into  "handkerchief- sized"  plots.  In  some  periods,  Por- 
tuguese emigrated  to  avoid  military  service.  Thus,  emigration  in- 
creased during  World  War  I  and  during  the  1960s  and  early  1970s, 
when  Portugal  waged  a  series  of  wars  in  an  attempt  to  retain  its 
African  colonies. 


75 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


AGE-GROUP 


MALES 


FEMALES 


J1 


5     4     3     2     1     0    0  1 

PERCENTAGE 


2     3      4  5 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Grande  Enciclopedia  Portuguesa  e  Brasileira,  9,  Lisbon,  1987, 
408. 


Figure  6.  Estimated  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex,  2000 

For  centuries  the  majority  of  emigrants  were  men.  Around  the 
turn  of  the  century,  about  80  percent  of  emigrants  were  male.  Even 
in  the  1980s,  male  emigrants  outnumbered  female  emigrants  two 
to  one.  Portuguese  males  traditionally  emigrated  for  several  years 
while  women  and  children  remained  behind.  For  several  decades 
after  World  War  II,  however,  women  made  up  about  40  percent 
of  emigrants. 

The  social  effects  resulting  from  this  extensive  and  generally  male 
emigration  included  an  aging  population,  a  disproportionate  num- 
ber of  women,  and  a  slower  rate  of  population  growth.  Childbearing 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


was  postponed,  and  many  women  were  obliged  to  remain  single 
or  to  spend  many  years  separated  from  their  husbands.  In  some 
areas  where  emigration  was  particularly  intense,  especially  in  the 
north,  villages  resembled  ghost  towns,  and  visitors  noted  that  only 
women  appeared  to  be  working  in  the  fields. 

Although  emigration  brought  with  it  untold  human  suffering, 
it  had  positive  effects,  as  well.  The  women  who  stayed  behind  be- 
came more  independent  as  they  managed  the  family  farm  and  fend- 
ed for  themselves.  Emigrants  abroad  absorbed  the  more  open  and 
pluralistic  mores  of  more  advanced  countries;  they  also  learned 
about  independent  labor  unions  and  extensive  social  welfare  pro- 
grams. The  money  that  emigrants  sent  back  to  Portugal  from  their 
job  earnings  abroad  became  crucial  for  the  functioning  of  the  Por- 
tuguese economy.  Quite  a  number  of  the  Portuguese  who  had  done 
well  abroad  eventually  returned  and  built  houses  that  were  con- 
siderably better  than  the  ones  they  had  left  behind  years  earlier. 

During  the  latter  half  of  the  nineteenth  century  and  during  much 
of  the  twentieth  century,  the  greatest  number  of  emigrants  went 
to  the  Western  Hemisphere.  The  Americas  were  seen  as  a  New 
World  offering  hope,  jobs,  land,  and  a  chance  to  start  fresh.  Be- 
tween 1864  and  1974,  the  Americas  received  approximately  50  per- 
cent of  all  Portuguese  emigration. 

Brazil  was  the  destination  of  choice.  In  addition  to  the  climate, 
ties  of  history,  culture,  and  language  attracted  the  Portuguese  to 
Brazil  and  enabled  them  to  assimilate  easily.  Despite  occasional 
tensions  between  them  and  the  Brazilians,  the  Portuguese  saw  Brazil 
as  a  land  of  the  future  with  abundant  land  and  jobs.  Hence,  about 
30  percent  of  Portugal's  emigrants  settled  there  between  1864  and 
1973.  A  final  surge  of  Portuguese  emigrants  was  caused  by  the 
Revolution  of  1974,  when  an  estimated  20,000  to  30,000  Portuguese 
associated  with  the  former  regime  fled  or  were  exiled  to  Brazil.  Ac- 
cording to  government  estimates,  more  than  1  million  Portuguese 
were  living  in  Brazil  in  the  1980s. 

Among  the  other  Latin  American  countries,  Venezuela  has 
ranked  second  to  Brazil  in  terms  of  Portuguese  emigration  and  Ar- 
gentina third.  Other  Latin  American  countries  have  received  only 
a  few  Portuguese  immigrants,  for  the  Portuguese,  like  other  peo- 
ples, preferred  to  go  to  countries  where  their  fellow  countrypeople 
could  help  them  get  settled. 

Emigration  to  North  America  was  also  heavy.  By  the  late  1980s, 
it  was  estimated  that  more  than  1  million  Portuguese  and  persons 
of  Portuguese  descent  lived  in  the  United  States  and  400,000  lived 
in  Canada,  most  notably  in  Toronto  and  Montreal.  Significant  Por- 
tuguese migration  to  the  United  States  began  in  the  nineteenth 


77 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

century.  Early  in  the  twentieth  century,  substantial  Portuguese  com- 
munities were  established  in  California,  New  Jersey,  and  Mas- 
sachusetts. Since  the  1950s,  the  most  intense  migration  has  been 
to  the  northeast — Rhode  Island  and  Connecticut — and  to  cities  in 
southeastern  Massachusetts. 

Portuguese  emigration  to  the  United  States  often  involved  whole 
families,  rather  than  just  the  men.  For  this  reason,  emigrants  to 
the  United  States  settled  permanently,  unlike  Portuguese  emigrants 
to  Northern  Europe,  who  were  mostly  men  who  set  out  alone  with 
the  intention  of  returning  home  after  a  few  years.  Another  charac- 
teristic of  the  Portuguese  migration  to  the  United  States  was  that 
many  migrants  were  fishermen  from  the  Azores  who  came  to  work 
in  areas  offshore  of  New  England.  Others  migrated  from  Madeira 
and  Sao  Tome. 

Portugal  was  never  as  successful  at  stimulating  emigration  to  its 
African  territories  as  it  wanted  to  be.  For  centuries  the  number 
of  Europeans  in  these  territories  was  small.  Faced  with  competi- 
tion from  other  European  imperialist  powers  in  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury, Portugal  sought  to  fill  up  its  vast  African  spaces  with  people. 
The  state  allowed  prisoners  to  work  off  their  sentences  by  settling 
in  Africa,  offered  land  grants  and  stipends  to  prospective  settlers, 
encouraged  its  soldiers  assigned  there  to  stay,  and  tried  to  lure  other 
Europeans  to  settle  there  to  augment  the  thin  Portuguese  popula- 
tion. These  efforts  were  not  notably  successful,  however,  and  Por- 
tuguese emigration  to  Africa  never  amounted  to  more  than  4  percent 
of  total  emigration. 

With  mounting  opposition  in  the  1960s  to  its  efforts  to  retain 
its  African  territories,  Portugal's  settlement  efforts  again  reflected 
political,  as  well  as  economic,  motives.  The  government  tried  to 
persuade  the  unemployed,  especially  those  in  the  north,  to  settle 
in  Africa  rather  than  emigrate  illegally  to  Europe,  but  in  the  long 
run  was  unsuccessful  in  these  efforts.  Even  the  construction  of  major 
dams  and  other  infrastructure  projects  in  the  territories  failed  to 
lure  significant  numbers  of  settlers.  By  the  mid-1970s,  the  African 
colonies  were  lost,  and  Portugal  was  flooded  with  refugees  from 
these  areas  instead  of  providing  emigrants  to  them. 

Upwards  of  1  million  Portuguese  or  persons  of  Portuguese  des- 
cent were  living  in  the  country's  African  colonies  in  1974  when 
these  colonies  gained  independence.  Most  of  these  settlers  left  the 
former  colonies  rather  than  live  under  the  rule  of  the  Marxist- 
Leninist  groups  that  came  to  power.  Sizeable  numbers  went  to 
South  Africa  and  to  Brazil,  but  an  estimated  800,000  returned  to 
Portugal,  where  they  increased  the  already  high  unemployment 
rate  and  added  to  the  social  and  political  tensions  of  the  late  1970s. 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Eventually,  however,  most  of  these  returnees  were  assimilated  into 
Portuguese  society,  and  some  of  them  achieved  notable  political 
or  financial  success. 

During  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century,  most  Portuguese 
emigrating  from  their  country  went  to  Portugal's  colonies  or  to 
the  Western  Hemisphere.  This  pattern  changed  dramatically  in 
the  1950s  when  Western  Europe  began  to  experience  an  economic 
boom  that  lasted  at  least  up  to  the  first  oil  crisis  of  1973.  The  boom 
created  millions  of  jobs,  and  Portuguese  migrants  traveled  north 
to  fill  them.  Alongside  Italians,  Spaniards,  Turks,  North  Africans, 
and  others,  Portuguese  worked  in  restaurants,  in  construction,  in 
factories,  and  in  many  other  areas.  Although  much  of  the  work 
was  menial  and  poorly  paid,  such  employment  provided  signifi- 
cant economic  advancement  for  many  Portuguese.  By  the  late 
1960s,  an  estimated  80  percent  of  Portuguese  emigrants  went  to 
Europe.  Many  of  these  emigrants  did  so  illegally,  without  the  re- 
quired documents,  because  the  lure  of  Europe's  prosperity  was  too 
strong  to  be  resisted. 

France  was  the  most  popular  destination.  By  the  early  1970s, 
it  was  estimated  that  8  percent  of  Portugal's  population  lived  there. 
The  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany)  had  the  next 
largest  contingent.  There  were  also  sizeable  Portuguese  commu- 
nities in  Switzerland,  Belgium,  Britain,  and  the  Netherlands. 
Chaotic  economic  and  social  conditions  resulting  from  the  Revo- 
lution of  1974  caused  a  slight  surge  of  emigration  in  the  later  1970s, 
but  it  never  again  reached  the  levels  of  the  1960s  and  early  1970s. 

During  the  1980s,  the  rate  of  emigration  slowed  as  revolution- 
ary turmoil  subsided  and  the  economy  began  to  grow.  Greater 
governmental  efficiency  and  membership  in  the  EC  attracted  much 
foreign  investment  and  created  jobs.  Portuguese  no  longer  had  to 
go  abroad  to  find  economic  opportunity. 

Family  and  Kinship  Relations 

The  deep-reaching  political,  economic,  and  social  changes  that 
Portugal  has  experienced  in  the  last  few  decades  have  left  their  mark 
on  the  family,  women's  place  within  society,  and  the  role  of  kin- 
ship relations.  Women  were  the  most  affected,  for  a  modernizing 
economy  offered  them  a  greater  range  of  choices  than  they  had 
in  previous  times,  and  the  radical  reforms  enacted  after  the  Revo- 
lution of  1974  gave  them  much  greater  rights.  Kinship  relations, 
whether  based  on  biology  or  social  relationships,  were  perhaps  the 
least  affected,  for  they  remained  vitally  important  in  how  Portuguese 
lived  and  worked  with  one  another. 


79 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 
Family 

The  patriarchal  and  nuclear  family  traditionally  has  served  as 
the  norm  and  the  ideal  in  Portugal.  Until  the  constitution  of  1976 
was  promulgated,  the  father  was  seen  as  the  head  of  the  family, 
and  his  wife  and  children  were  obliged  to  recognize  his  authority. 
He,  in  turn,  was  obliged  by  law  to  support  and  protect  his  family. 
The  men  worked  outside  the  home,  and  women  were  expected  to 
care  for  the  children  and  manage  household  affairs.  Marriage  was 
considered  permanent;  divorce  was  virtually  unknown.  During  the 
period  of  Salazar's  rule  from  1928  to  1968,  the  family  was  even 
seen  as  the  primary  institution  of  politics.  Voting  was  organized 
under  the  regime,  the  New  State  (Estado  Novo),  on  a  family 
basis — only  "heads  of  households"  (usually  men  but  sometimes 
women)  could  vote. 

Although  the  nuclear  and  patriarchal  family  was  the  ideal,  the 
cultural  patterns  varied  considerably  depending  on  class  status  and 
region.  Upper-  and  middle-class  families  corresponded  most  closely 
to  the  ideal.  Women  remained  at  home  tending  the  children  and 
rarely  ventured  out  unaccompanied,  and  husbands  managed  their 
businesses  or  followed  their  professions.  Peasant  and  working-class 
families  were  marked  by  greater  variation.  In  northern  Portugal, 
for  example,  names  and  property  were  often  passed  on  through 
the  mother  because  of  the  absence  abroad  of  male  heads  of  house- 
holds for  long  periods.  The  fact  that  women  could  inherit  land  in 
Portugal  gave  women  in  rural  areas  some  independence,  and  many 
of  them  managed  their  own  farms,  took  their  produce  to  market, 
and  did  much  heavy  work  elsewhere  seen  as  suitable  for  men.  The 
absence  of  men  because  of  emigration  meant  that  many  women 
never  married  and  also  resulted  in  a  higher  rate  of  illegitimacy  than 
in  other  Mediterranean  countries. 

The  slow  modernization  of  the  Portuguese  economy,  the  increas- 
ing employment  of  women  outside  the  home,  and  the  emigration 
of  many  women,  as  well  as  the  spread  of  new  ideas  about  the  place 
of  women  and  the  nature  of  marriage,  gradually  changed  the  na- 
ture of  the  Portuguese  family,  despite  the  attempts  of  Salazar's  Es- 
tado Novo  to  preserve  the  male-dominated  nuclear  family.  The 
Revolution  of  1974  responded  to  these  long  pent-up  social  pressures. 

The  reforms  enacted  after  the  revolution  established  in  the  civil 
code  that  men  and  women  are  equals  in  marriage,  with  the  same 
rights  to  make  family  decisions.  Divorce  became  much  easier,  and 
the  number  of  divorces  increased  from  1,552  in  1975  to  5,874  in 
1980  and  9,657  in  1989.  The  number  of  separations,  formerly  the 
main  method  of  ending  a  marriage,  fell  from  670  in  1975  to  70 


80 


81 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

in  1980  but  climbed  to  195  in  1989.  Illegitimacy  was  no  longer 
to  be  mentioned  in  official  documents  because  such  mention  was 
regarded  as  discriminatory;  the  frequency  of  births  out  of  wedlock 
rose  from  7.2  percent  to  14.5  percent  between  1975  and  1989.  Abor- 
tion under  certain  conditions  became  legal  in  1984.  Maternal  leave 
with  full  pay  for  ninety  days  was  established  for  working  mothers 
in  1976.  A  small  family  allowance  program  was  also  instituted  that 
made  payments  at  the  birth  of  a  child  and  all  through  his  or  her 
childhood.  Family  planning  also  became  an  integral  part  of  Por- 
tugal's social  welfare  program;  the  number  of  children  born  per 
woman  fell  from  2.2  in  1980  to  1.7  in  1985  and  1.5  in  1988. 

Relations  within  the  family  came  to  resemble  more  closely  those 
of  the  rest  of  Western  Europe.  Children  were  less  respectful  to  their 
parents,  dating  without  chaperones  was  the  rule,  and  outings  in 
mixed  gender  groups  or  as  couples  were  taken  for  granted — all  things 
that  would  not  have  happened  during  much  of  the  Salazar  era. 

Still,  some  characteristics  of  Portuguese  family  life  have  remained 
constant.  Marriage  and  kinship  networks  in  Portugal  are  often  based 
on  social  and  political  criteria  as  much  as  on  love  or  natural  at- 
traction. To  a  degree  that  often  surprises  outsiders,  many  Por- 
tuguese marriages  are  arranged,  even  in  the  early  1990s.  For  the 
peasant  class,  considerations  of  land  are  often  most  important  in 
determining  marriage  candidates.  Marriages  might  be  arranged 
to  consolidate  property  holdings  or  to  tie  two  families  together  rather 
than  as  a  result  of  the  affection  two  people  might  feel  for  one 
another.  Middle-class  families  often  have  status  and  prestige  con- 
siderations in  mind  when  they  marry.  Among  the  upper  classes, 
marriage  might  be  for  the  purposes  of  joining  two  businesses,  two 
landholdings,  or  two  political  clans. 

Women 

The  constitution  of  1976  guaranteed  Portuguese  women  full 
equality  for  the  first  time  in  Portuguese  history.  Until  the  reforms 
made  possible  by  the  Revolution  of  1974,  Portuguese  women  had 
notably  fewer  political,  economic,  or  personal  rights  than  the  women 
of  other  European  countries.  In  family  matters,  they  were  subor- 
dinate to  their  husbands,  having  to  defer  to  male  decisions  about 
how  the  children  should  be  reared  and  educated.  It  was  only  in 
1969  that  all  married  women  obtained  the  right  to  obtain  a  pass- 
port or  leave  Portugal  without  their  husbands'  consent. 

Equality  for  women  was  not  attained  through  steady  progress, 
but  rather  after  reverses  and  defeats.  For  centuries,  Portuguese 
women  were  obliged  by  law  and  custom  to  be  subservient  to  men. 
Women  had  few  rights  of  either  a  legal  or  a  financial  nature  and 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


were  forced  to  rely  on  the  benevolence  of  their  male  relatives.  Late 
in  the  nineteenth  century  and  early  in  the  twentieth  century,  some 
educated  persons  saw  the  need  for  women's  equality  and  emanci- 
pation. A  small  Portuguese  suffragette  movement  formed,  and  some 
young  women  began  to  receive  higher  educations.  Shortly  after 
the  proclamation  of  the  First  Republic  in  the  fall  of  1910,  laws  were 
enacted  establishing  legal  equality  in  marriage,  requiring  civil  mar- 
riages, freeing  women  of  the  obligation  to  remain  with  their  hus- 
bands, and  permitting  divorce.  However,  women  were  still  not 
allowed  to  manage  property  or  to  vote. 

Salazar's  New  State  meant  the  end  to  these  advances.  The  con- 
stitution of  1933  proclaimed  everyone  equal  before  the  law  "ex- 
cept for  women,  the  differences  resulting  from  their  nature  and 
for  the  good  of  the  family."  Although  the  regime  allowed  women 
with  a  secondary  education  to  vote  (men  needed  only  to  read  and 
write),  it  once  again  obliged  women  to  remain  with  their  husbands. 
The  Concordat  of  1940  between  the  Portuguese  government  and 
the  Roman  Catholic  Church  gave  legal  validity  to  marriages 
within  the  church  and  forbade  divorce  in  such  marriages.  Later 
amendments  to  the  civil  code,  even  in  the  1960s,  cemented  the  hus- 
band's dominance  in  marriage. 

The  constitution  of  1976  brought  Portuguese  women  full  legal 
equality.  Anyone  eighteen  or  over  was  granted  the  right  to  vote, 
and  full  equality  in  marriage  was  guaranteed.  A  state  entity,  the 
Commission  on  the  Status  of  Women,  was  established  and  from 
1977  on  was  attached  to  the  prime  minister's  office.  Its  task  was 
to  improve  the  position  of  women  in  Portugal  and  to  oversee  the 
protection  of  their  rights.  This  entity  was  renamed  the  Commis- 
sion for  Equality  and  Women's  Rights  (Comissao  para  a  Igual- 
dade  e  Direitos  das  Mulheres)  in  1991. 

The  position  of  women  improved  as  a  result  of  these  legal  re- 
forms. By  the  early  1990s,  women  were  prominent  in  many  profes- 
sions. Thirty-seven  percent  of  all  physicians  were  women,  as  were 
many  lawyers.  Slighdy  more  than  half  of  those  enrolled  in  higher 
education  were  women.  Working-class  women  also  made  gains. 
A  modernizing  economy  meant  that  many  women  could  find  em- 
ployment in  offices  and  factories  and  that  they  had  a  better  stan- 
dard of  living  than  their  mothers. 

Despite  these  significant  gains,  however,  Portuguese  women  still 
have  not  achieved  full  social  and  economic  equality.  They  remain 
underrepresented  in  most  upper-level  positions,  whether  public  or 
private.  Women  usually  hold  less  than  10  percent  of  the  seats 
in  the  country's  parliament.  Women  are  also  rarely  cabinet  mem- 
bers or  judges.  In  the  main  trade  unions,  women's  occupancy  of 


83 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

leadership  positions  is  proportionally  only  half  their  total  union 
membership,  and,  on  the  whole,  working-class  women  earned  less 
than  their  male  counterparts. 

The  Extended  Family  and  Kinship  Relations 

The  extended  family  and  kinship  relations,  including  ritual  kin- 
ship, are  also  important.  The  role  of  the  godparent,  for  example, 
has  an  importance  in  Portugal  that  it  lacks  in  the  United  States. 
Being  a  godparent  implied  certain  lifetime  obligations,  such  as  help- 
ing a  godchild  in  trouble,  arranging  admission  to  a  school,  find- 
ing employment,  or  furthering  a  professional  or  political  career. 
The  godchild,  in  turn,  owes  loyalty  and  service  to  the  godparent. 
The  system  is  one  of  patronage  based  on  mutual  obligation. 

Political  kinship  networks  can  consist  of  several  hundred  per- 
sons. Such  extended  networks  are  especially  prevalent  among  the 
elite.  Members  of  the  elite  are  bound  not  only  by  marriage  and 
family,  but  also  by  business  partnerships,  friendships,  political  ties, 
university  or  military  academy  bonds,  and  common  loyalties.  It 
has  long  been  the  practice  to  have  such  family  connections  in  the 
government  so  as  to  be  able  to  extract  favors  and  contracts.  The 
elite  and  middle-class  families  also  try  to  have  a  "cousin,"  real 
or  ritual,  in  all  political  parties  so  that  their  interests  are  protected 
no  matter  which  party  is  in  power.  Sometimes  the  parties  or  in- 
terest groups  are  just  "fronts"  for  these  family  groupings.  These 
extended  families  also  try  to  have  members  in  different  sectors  of 
the  economy,  both  to  enhance  profits  and  to  enable  each  sector 
to  support  and  reinforce  the  others.  Although  these  extended  family 
networks  are  difficult  for  outsiders  to  penetrate,  some  observers 
regard  them  as  the  country's  most  important  political  and  economic 
institutions,  of  greater  real  consequence  than  political  parties,  in- 
terest organizations,  or  government  institutions. 

The  poor  and  working  class  lack  the  extended  family  networks 
of  the  middle  class  and  the  wealthy.  Kin  relations  outside  the  nuclear 
family  are  weak.  Little  premium  is  placed  on  building  economic 
alliances  through  an  extended  family  network  because  there  is  lit- 
tle wealth  to  be  shared  or  gained.  Similarly,  there  is  no  reason  to 
build  strong  political  connections  because  the  poor  lack  political 
power.  However,  a  poor  person  might  succeed  in  persuading  a  lo- 
cal landowner  or  village  notable  to  serve  as  godfather  to  his  chil- 
dren. In  that  way,  the  individual  becomes  part  of  a  larger  network, 
expecting  favors  in  return  for  loyalty  and  service.  If  that  network 
becomes  wealthy  or  achieved  political  prominence,  then  the  poor 
person  attached  to  it  might  also  expect  to  benefit — perhaps  by  ob- 
taining a  low-level  government  job.  But  if  it  falls,  the  individual 


84 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


also  falls.  The  entire  Portuguese  local  and  national  system  is  based 
on  these  extended  family  and  patronage  ties,  which  are  often  as 
important  as  formal  institutions. 

Social  Structure  and  Social  Classes 

For  centuries  the  most  distinctive  feature  of  Portugal's  social 
structure  was  its  remarkable  stability.  Portuguese  society  was  long 
cast  in  an  almost  premodern,  quasifeudal  mold.  It  was  based  on 
strong  considerations  of  rank,  place,  and  class.  The  system  con- 
sisted of  a  small  elite  at  the  top,  a  huge  mass  of  peasants  at  the 
bottom,  and  almost  no  one  in  between.  Because  Portugal's  indus- 
trialization arrived  late,  the  country  did  not  experience  until  late 
in  the  nineteenth  century  some  of  the  class  changes  associated  with 
rapid  economic  development  in  other  nations.  When  industriali- 
zation finally  did  come,  Salazar's  dictatorship  held  its  sociopoliti- 
cal effects  in  check  almost  to  the  very  end.  Then  these  pent-up 
changes  exploded  in  the  Revolution  of  1974. 

Historically,  Portuguese  society  consisted  of  two  main  classes: 
nobility  and  peasants.  Social  prestige,  political  power,  and  economic 
prosperity  were  based  on  the  ownership  of  land.  The  land  was  con- 
centrated in  large  estates  owned  by  a  small  elite  that  had  obtained 
lands  and  titles  during  the  reconquest  of  the  peninsula  from  the 
Moors.  As  the  Portuguese  armies  drove  the  Moors  farther  and  far- 
ther south,  their  leaders  acquired  rights  to  the  use  and  eventually 
ownership  of  the  lands  they  had  conquered.  These  titles  were  con- 
firmed by  the  king  in  return  for  the  landowners'  loyalty  and  ser- 
vice. It  was,  in  its  origins,  a  classical  feudal  contract  but  derived 
in  the  Portuguese  case  from  warfare  and  territorial  conquest.  The 
Roman  Catholic  Church  also  held  vast  lands.  From  the  very  birth 
of  Portugal,  then,  landed,  governmental,  military,  and  religious 
authority  were  closely  bound. 

The  rest  of  the  population  counted  for  very  little  in  this  social 
order.  The  small  traditional  middle  class,  consisting  of  soldiers, 
merchants,  artisans,  and  low-level  bureaucrats,  lacked  any  solidarity 
as  a  class  or  sufficient  numbers  to  give  it  political  power.  The  re- 
maining 90  percent  of  the  population  eked  out  meager  existences 
as  tenant  farmers,  serfs,  and  peasants.  Little  social  mobility  existed. 
Instead,  one  accepted  one's  station  in  life  and  did  not  rebel  against 
it;  rebelling  was  not  only  forbidden  but  also  seen  as  an  affront  to 
God's  immutable  laws.  Generation  after  generation,  down  through 
the  centuries,  this  rigid,  unyielding,  hierarchical  social  structure 
persisted. 

It  was  not  unusual  that  from  the  twelfth  century  through  the  four- 
teenth century,  Portugal's  formative  years  as  a  nation,  the  country 


85 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

was  organized  in  this  two-class  system  and  on  a  feudal  basis;  such 
organization  was  the  norm  in  Europe.  What  was  surprising  was 
that  this  class  system  and  all  its  rigidities  lasted  through  the  seven- 
teenth century,  when  the  system  became  even  more  consolidated, 
and  beyond.  During  the  eighteenth  and  nineteenth  centuries,  a 
"new  rich"  class  emerged  that  was  based  on  commerce  and  in- 
vestment, but  members  of  this  class  bought  land,  intermarried  with 
the  old  elite,  and  thus  perpetuated  the  two-class  system. 

Even  in  the  twentieth  century,  despite  the  onset  of  moderniza- 
tion, this  structure  persisted.  With  economic  stimulus,  a  new  middle 
class  began  to  emerge.  But  it  largely  imitated  upper-class  ways — 
disdaining  manual  labor,  cultivating  genteel  virtues,  and  distanc- 
ing itself  from  the  lower  classes — and  was  coopted  into  the  elite's 
way  of  thinking  and  behaving.  In  addition,  an  industrial  work  force 
began  to  grow  up  alongside  the  traditional  peasantry.  However, 
under  Salazar  its  labor  unions  were  kept  under  control,  and  the 
workers  had  no  independent  bargaining  power.  Just  as  the  emerging 
middle  class  joined  the  elite,  the  emerging  working  class  was  kept 
down  as  a  sort  of  urban  "peasantry."  In  this  way,  the  essentially 
conservative  and  two-class  system  of  Portugal  was  perpetuated  even 
into  the  era  of  industrialization. 

Under  Salazar  the  regime  did  little  to  ameliorate  the  social  ine- 
qualities that  had  long  existed  in  Portugal.  Salazar  recognized  that 
his  strength  lay  with  the  conservative,  traditional  elements,  espe- 
cially the  strongly  Catholic  peasantry  of  the  north,  so  he  did  little 
to  increase  literacy  or  improve  the  road  system  that  would  lead 
to  increased  mobility,  urbanization,  and  the  eventual  undermin- 
ing of  his  power.  He  also  tried  consciously  to  keep  Portugal  isolated 
from  the  modernizing  and  culture-changing  currents  of  the  rest 
of  Europe.  His  corporative  system  brought  some  benefits  to  the 
workers,  but  it  also  kept  them  under  the  strict  control  of  the  re- 
gime. Moreover,  during  Salazar' s  rule,  Portugal  lagged  even  further 
behind  other  nations  in  terms  of  housing,  education,  and  health 
care. 

Several  sociological  studies  carried  out  in  the  1960s  confirmed 
that  Portugal's  ossified,  hierarchical  social  structure  continued  even 
into  modern  times.  One  study  found  four  social  categories:  an  up- 
per class  of  industrialists,  proprietors,  and  high  government  offi- 
cials accounting  for  3.8  percent  of  the  population;  a  middle  stratum 
of  rural  proprietors,  military  officers,  teachers,  and  small-scale  en- 
trepreneurs constituting  6.9  percent;  a  lower-middle  stratum  of 
clerks,  low-level  civil  servants,  military  enlisted  men,  and  rural  shop- 
keepers adding  up  to  27.2  percent;  and  a  majority — 62.1  percent — 
consisting  of  workers,  both  rural  and  urban.  Another  study  located 


86 


Obidos,  a  small  town  in  the  region  of  Estremadura 
Street  scene  in  Alfama,  the  oldest  quarter  of  Lisbon 

Courtesy  Daniele  Kohler 


87 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


1  to  2  percent  of  the  population  in  the  upper  class,  15  to  20  per- 
cent in  the  middle  class,  and  75  percent  in  the  lower  class.  Both 
studies,  carried  out  independentiy,  arrived  at  strikingly  similar  con- 
clusions. 

Yet,  even  with  all  this  rigidity,  class  change  was  beginning  to 
occur  as  a  result  of  the  slow  modernization  of  the  economy.  Some 
groups  were  losing  their  traditional  status  and  social  power  and 
were  being  displaced  by  groups  better  able  to  function  in  the  evolv- 
ing economy.  These  changes  can  be  shown  through  a  closer  ex- 
amination of  the  various  groups  that  made  up  the  country's  elite, 
middle,  and  lower  classes. 

The  Elite 

Before  the  Revolution  of  1974,  Portugal's  elite  could  be  divided 
into  five  groups;  the  nobility,  the  large  landowners,  the  heads  of 
large  businesses,  the  members  of  learned  professions,  and  high- 
ranking  military  officers.  These  elites  were  closely  connected  and 
intertwined  in  numerous  complex  ways. 

The  oldest  group  historically  was  the  nobility.  It  generally  traced 
its  origins  to  the  formative  period  of  Portuguese  history.  The  monar- 
chy had  frequently  granted  noble  titles  to  the  elite  in  return  for 
loyalty  and  service.  In  modern  times,  this  nobility  continued  fre- 
quently to  use  the  titles  of  duke,  count,  or  marquis.  A  title  was 
a  symbol  of  status  and  was  often  eagerly  sought,  although  the  young- 
er, more  liberal  generation  frequently  scoffed  at  such  titles.  Some 
of  the  titled  nobility  went  into  the  learned  professions  or  high 
government  service.  In  the  modern  age,  a  titled  nobility  seemed 
anachronistic,  but  in  Portugal  this  elite  lingered  on. 

A  second  group,  often  overlapping  with  the  first,  consisted  of 
large  landowners,  or  latifundidrios .  They  were  chiefly  concentrated 
in  the  Alentejo,  but  other  areas  of  Portugal,  such  as  the  Beira  and 
Ribatejo,  also  contained  large  estates.  Increasingly,  this  landholding 
element  had  become  absentee  landlords,  settling  in  Lisbon  and  leav- 
ing their  estates  in  the  hands  of  managers.  In  Lisbon,  the  landed 
elites  frequently  diversified  into  business  and  industry  but  kept  their 
estates,  sometimes  as  profit-making  enterprises,  but  most  often  as 
symbols  of  status.  This  elite  was  also  in  the  process  of  being  eclipsed 
when  the  Revolution  of  1974  occurred. 

More  important  than  either  of  these  first  two  groups  were  busi- 
ness people  and  industrialists.  These  elements  had  come  to  promi- 
nence in  Portugal  in  the  1960s  and  early  1970s  as  Portuguese 
economic  growth  accelerated  and  the  country  industrialized.  The 
business  elite  was  often  well  educated  and  had  emerged  from  the 
middle  class.  It  filled  the  ranks  of  managers,  administrators,  and 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


company  presidents.  Quite  a  number  married,  or  their  children 
married,  into  the  nobility  or  the  landed  class.  As  Portugal  continued 
to  develop  economically,  the  business  groups  gained  in  influence, 
particularly  as  the  survival  of  the  regime  came  to  depend  on  a 
prosperous  economy. 

A  fourth  group  among  the  elite  consisted  of  the  learned  profes- 
sions, including  university  professors.  Medicine  as  a  profession  had 
traditionally  enjoyed  particular  prestige  in  Portugal.  Lawyers  simi- 
larly enjoyed  prestige;  many  of  them  went  into  government  service 
or  became  managers  of  banks  and  major  companies.  University 
professors  were  also  valued:  Salazar  and  Caetano  were  both  univer- 
sity dons,  and  their  cabinets  often  included  several  professors.  The 
high  prestige  stemmed  in  part  from  the  fact  that  university  educa- 
tion was  so  rare  in  Portugal  and  a  professor  far  rarer  still;  it  also 
stemmed  from  the  need  for  technical  expertise  in  the  government. 
Because  of  the  large  number  of  university  professors,  Salazar' s  re- 
gime was  often  referred  to  as  a  catedratocracia,  a  term  derived  from 
the  Portuguese  word  for  university  chair,  cdtedra. 

The  fifth  elite  was  the  military  officer  corps.  These  were  men, 
often  from  middle-  or  lower  middle-class  ranks,  who  had  made  it 
to  the  top  in  a  very  important  institution:  the  armed  forces.  Edu- 
cation and  the  military,  in  fact,  were  among  the  few  means  open 
to  ambitious  middle-class  youth  to  rise  in  the  social  scale  in  highly 
class-conscious  Portugal.  The  military  officers  did  not  always  mingle 
well  with  the  upper-class  civilians,  but  the  power  and  importance 
of  the  armed  forces  meant  they  had  to  be  paid  serious  attention. 
In  addition,  many  of  the  banks,  large  businesses,  and  elite  family 
groups,  as  a  way  of  protecting  their  interests,  placed  military  officers 
on  their  payrolls. 

These  elites  were  closely  interrelated.  A  landowner  living  in  the 
city  might  go  into  business  or  banking;  a  wealthy  business  person 
or  industrialist  might  buy  land.  They  themselves  or  their  children 
would  acquire  an  education  and  enter  the  learned  professions.  Busi- 
ness elites  formed  groups  in  which  they  owned  diverse  holdings: 
typically,  insurance,  hotels,  construction,  banking,  real  estate,  and 
newspapers.  They  hired  university  professors  and  military  officers 
to  help  administer  these  holdings — or  as  an  "insurance  policy." 
Some  members  of  the  group  held  government  positions — often  car- 
rying out  private  and  public  activities  simultaneously.  These  groups 
were  tightly  inbred  and  often  overlapping,  with  powerful  political- 
economic-military  connections. 

The  Revolution  of  1974  largely  destroyed  this  oligarchic  system. 
Many  of  the  old  political  elites  associated  with  the  regime  were 
forced  into  exile,  and  others  had  their  businesses  confiscated.  Almost 


89 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

all  lost  their  positions  and  many  of  their  holdings  as  a  result  of  the 
revolution.  Many  members  of  the  old  elite  eventually  found  their 
way  back  to  Portugal  and  some  began  again  to  prosper  in  the  late 
1980s.  But  the  strength  of  the  elite  was  nowhere  near  so  great  as 
it  was  before  1974  and  may  have  been  ended  permanently. 

The  Middle  Class 

The  middle  class  in  Portugal  had  long  been  growing  in  size  but 
grew  more  rapidly  beginning  in  the  early  1960s  as  economic  growth 
quickened.  Depending  on  the  criteria  used,  at  the  beginning  of  the 
1990s  Portugal's  middle  class  could  account  for  25  to  30  percent 
of  the  population. 

The  traditional  principle  of  political  science  states  that  the  growth 
of  a  middle  class  brings  greater  social  stability  and  better  chances 
for  the  flourishing  of  democracy.  However,  the  correlation  of 
middle-class  stability  and  democracy  does  not  necessarily  hold  in 
Portugal.  The  reason  for  this  lack  of  correlation  stems  from  the 
fact  that  "middle  class"  in  Portugal  has  two  definitions.  One  defi- 
nition is  based  on  social  and  cultural  criteria  and  the  other  on  eco- 
nomics. The  definition  using  economic  criteria  is  the  easiest  to  state: 
everyone  above  a  certain  income  level  but  below  another  income 
level  is  middle  class.  This  criterion  includes  some  less  wealthy  profes- 
sionals, business  people,  soldiers,  government  workers,  small  farm- 
ers who  own  their  own  lands,  clerks,  and  better-off  industrial 
workers.  This  list  includes  a  large  variety  of  persons  of  diverse  oc- 
cupations with  little  connecting  them  in  terms  of  education,  fami- 
ly background,  or  political  values. 

According  to  the  socio-cultural  definition  of  middle  class,  per- 
sons belonging  to  the  middle  class  do  not  engage  in  manual  labor, 
disdain  it,  and  tend  to  feel  a  sense  of  superiority  to  those  below 
them  in  the  social  hierarchy.  The  social-cultural  definition  regards 
professionals,  business  and  commercial  elements,  military  officers, 
and  government  workers  as  middle  class,  but  not  enlisted  mem- 
bers of  the  military,  farmers,  or  industrial  workers,  no  matter  what 
their  earnings.  This  latter  definition  of  middle  class  results  in  a 
smaller  group,  more  homogeneous  in  outlook  than  that  resulting 
from  purely  economic  criteria. 

If  the  older,  more  traditional  variety  of  middle  class  with  its  es- 
sentially aristocratic  values  (disdain  for  manual  labor,  for  exam- 
ple) proved  to  be  the  prevailing  model  even  in  the  1990s,  Portugal 
would  remain  essentially  a  two-class  society  divided  between  those 
who  work  with  their  hands  and  those  who  do  not.  A  two-class  so- 
ciety increases  chances  for  division,  class  conflict,  and  even  civil 
war.  By  contrast,  the  emergence  of  a  large  and  independent  middle 


90 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


class  defined  by  economic  categories  rather  than  socio-cultural  traits 
favors  the  growth  of  social  pluralism  and  political  stability.  As  both 
definitions  of  the  middle  class  are  employed  in  Portugal,  predict- 
ing the  country's  future  is  more  difficult  than  elsewhere  in  Western 
Europe. 

An  indication  that  economic  criteria  have  greater  validity  than 
in  the  past  is  that  Portugal's  middle  class,  traditionally  deeply  divid- 
ed on  a  host  of  social  and  political  issues,  increasingly  votes  for 
the  moderate,  centrist  Social  Democrat  Party  (Partido  Social 
Democrata — PSD).  The  PSD  has  come  to  be  seen  by  its  foes,  as 
well  as  its  supporters,  as  a  "bourgeois"  party.  The  Portuguese 
working  class,  in  contrast,  has  voted  increasingly  for  the  Socialist 
Party  (Partido  Socialista — PS),  although  the  Portuguese  Com- 
munist Party  (Partido  Comunista  Portugues — PCP)  also  has  won 
some  of  its  votes. 

The  Lower  Class 

Portuguese  have  long  used  the  all-encompassing  term  o  povo  to 
describe  the  l^wer  class.  0 povo  means  "the  people,"  but  the  term 
has  a  class  connotation,  as  well.  Analysts  of  Portuguese  society  have 
postulated  that  o  povo  encompasses  perhaps  four  main  groups,  in- 
cluding agricultural  workers  who  either  own  or  do  not  own  land 
and  organized  and  unorganized  labor  in  urban  areas. 

Ownership  of  land  is  the  main  criterion  for  subdividing  the  poor 
in  rural  areas.  There  is  a  strong  regional  difference  in  ownership. 
Portugal's  north  is  noted  for  its  small  farms  and  self-employed  small 
farmers.  Farmers  who  own  land  tend  to  be  independent,  rather 
conservative,  and  strongly  Catholic  in  their  beliefs.  They  tend  to 
vote  for  the  center  and  center-right  political  parties.  Within  this 
class  of  smallholders,  some  are  better  off  than  others.  Some  are 
obliged  to  work  part-time  on  other  farms.  Many  offspring  of  small- 
holders migrate  to  the  cities  or  emigrate  abroad.  Their  female  rela- 
tives often  remain  behind  to  till  the  land. 

The  rural  poor  of  the  south  in  the  Alentejo,  like  those  of  the  north, 
are  often  referred  to  as  "peasants,"  but  that  catchall  term  obscures 
important  regional  differences  between  these  two  groups.  Relatively 
few  of  the  o  povo  in  the  Alentejo  own  their  own  land.  Instead,  they 
work  on  the  region's  large  estates,  some  full-time,  others  perhaps 
only  two  days  a  week.  Their  politics  are  often  radical,  and,  in  con- 
trast to  the  smallholders  of  the  north,  they  tend  to  vote  for  socialist 
and  communist  parties.  The  Alentejo  was  the  area  most  strongly 
affected  by  the  Revolution  of  1974,  and  many  of  the  large  estates 
were  nationalized  and  designated  for  agrarian  reform  or  were  taken 
over  in  a  land  seizure  by  their  workers. 


91 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Urban  areas  also  have  two  major  groups  of  the  working  class, 
mainly  defined  in  terms  of  whether  or  not  they  are  politically 
organized.  The  unorganized  lumpen  proletariat,  usually  recent 
arrivals  from  the  countryside,  are  often  unemployed  or  under- 
employed. Members  of  the  urban  working  class  who  belong  to  labor 
unions  are  considerably  better  off  and  could  be  regarded  as  the 
"elite"  of  Portugal's  lower  classes. 

The  lumpen  proletariat  live  in  urban  slums,  the  most  extensive 
of  which  are  in  Lisbon.  Migrants  from  the  countryside,  they  are 
often  illiterate  and  not  members  of  a  labor  union.  Many  can  find 
no  regular  work  but  are  employed  in  menial  jobs  on  a  part-time 
basis.  The  slums  they  live  in  are  often  partly  hidden  from  view 
behind  walls  or  fences  and  even  in  the  early  1990s  frequently  lacked 
electricity,  water,  and  sewerage  systems.  The  housing  in  these  slums 
is  often  fabricated  from  any  available  materials,  including  fiber 
glass,  cardboard,  and  tin;  hence,  these  areas  are  called  in  Portuguese 
bairros  de  lata — neighborhoods  of  tin.  In  addition  to  physical  hard- 
ships, slum  dwellers  have  to  contend  with  violence  and  crime.  Por- 
tugal's increasing  prosperity  since  the  second  half  of  the  1980s  has 
not  yet  been  sufficient  to  efface  these  districts,  which  look  as  if  they 
are  part  of  the  Third  World. 

Portugal's  organized  working  class  has  a  better  standard  of  liv- 
ing than  does  the  unskilled  and  unorganized  poor.  Their  salaries 
are  relatively  high,  and  they  are  strongly  entrenched  in  Portugal's 
key  industries.  Portugal  has  a  long  history  of  urban  trade  unions. 
Under  Salazar's  corporative  system,  they  were  strictly  controlled, 
but  after  the  Revolution  of  1974  they  became  major  actors  in  the 
political  system  and  managed  to  secure  decent  wages  for  their  mem- 
bership. 

A  New  Portugal? 

Portugal  was  long  a  closed,  hierarchical,  elitist,  rigidly  structured 
society  whose  social  institutions  seemed  to  be  more  nineteenth  cen- 
tury than  twentieth.  Portugal  was  called  a  "society  of  uniforms" 
because  people  could  be  identified  and  their  class  rank  determined 
by  the  clothes  they  wore,  their  manner  of  speech,  and  how  they 
walked  and  carried  themselves.  Social  structure  was  seen  as  im- 
mutable, and  persons  were  expected  to  accept  their  station  in  life. 
Other  than  a  few  slots  in  the  university  or  the  military  officer  corps, 
few  opportunities  existed  for  upward  mobility. 

The  Revolution  of  1974  destroyed,  undermined,  or  at  least 
precipitated  the  toppling  of  many  of  these  hierarchical  institutions. 
In  the  years  since  then,  Portuguese  society  has  become  more  flexi- 
ble. More  opportunities  for  social  mobility  have  appeared,  and  old 


92 


A  fishing  boat  at  Aveiro  in  Northern  Portugal 
A  fisherman  uses  cattle  to  draw  in  fishing  boats  at  Aveiro. 

Courtesy  Daniele  Kohler 


93 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


categories  of  place  and  position  have  became  blurred.  Portuguese 
society  has  become  more  egalitarian,  pluralist,  and  democratic,  and 
there  was  more  of  what  the  Portuguese  liked  to  call  movimento 
(change,  dynamism,  or  movement). 

In  the  years  following  the  mid-1970s,  the  country's  middle  class 
grew  in  size  and  solidarity,  the  working  class  enjoyed  a  rising  stan- 
dard of  living,  and  the  number  of  entrepreneurs  and  technicians 
increased  markedly.  The  most  significant  of  these  changes  was  the 
growth  of  a  sizeable  and  more  stable  middle  class  that  offered  the 
hope  for  a  more  stable  and  democratic  country.  The  middle  class 
largely  replaced  the  old  elite  and  came  to  dominate  most  Portuguese 
social  and  political  institutions:  the  political  parties,  the  church, 
business,  the  military  officer  corps,  government  and  bureaucra- 
cy, and  even  union  leadership.  Thus,  a  major  class  shift  occurred. 
It  has  begun  earlier  in  the  century,  continued  through  the  Salazar 
era,  and  by  the  early  1990s  appeared  to  have  been  consolidated. 
This  shift  from  upper-  to  middle-class  leadership  could  give  Por- 
tugal the  basis  for  stable,  democratic  rule  that  it  lacked  before. 

Ethnicity  and  Ethnic  Groups 

Portugal's  population  is  remarkably  homogeneous  and  has  been 
so  for  all  of  its  history.  This  lack  of  ethnic  variety  helped  it  become 
the  first  unified  nation- state  in  Western  Europe.  For  centuries  Por- 
tugal had  virtually  no  ethnic,  tribal,  racial,  religious,  or  cultural 
minorities.  Almost  all  Portuguese  speak  the  national  language, 
almost  all  are  Roman  Catholic,  and  almost  all  identify  with  Por- 
tuguese culture  and  the  nation  of  Portugal.  Whereas  neighboring 
Spain  was  deeply  divided  along  ethnic,  linguistic,  and  regional  lines 
all  through  its  history,  Portugal,  which  historically  represented  but 
one  of  the  Iberian  Peninsula's  many  regional  entities,  was  united. 
In  Portugal,  ethnic  unity  and  homogeneity  were  the  rule,  rather 
than  the  exception. 

Although  Portugal  lacks  socially  significant  ethnic  differences, 
some  regional  differences  exist.  The  north  is  generally  more  con- 
servative and  Catholic  than  the  south  and  is  said  to  be  less  "taint- 
ed" by  Moorish  or  Islamic  influences.  Regional  dances,  dress, 
festivals,  and  customs  were  once  very  distinctive,  but  modern  com- 
munications and  transportation  have  opened  up  and  connected 
formerly  closed  regions  and  produced  a  greater  homogeneity.  The 
Portuguese  language  still  exhibits  regional  differences,  and  linguists 
can  often  pinpoint  a  person's  geographic  origin  from  his  speech, 
but  these  differences  are  not  extreme  enough  to  impede  understand- 
ing among  Portuguese. 


94 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Protestants  live  in  Portugal,  but  they  are  largely  confined  to  the 
communities  of  foreigners  residing  in  the  country.  The  small  but 
growing  Muslim  population  from  North  Africa,  mainly  guest  work- 
ers attracted  by  Portugal's  new  prosperity,  is  concentrated  in  the 
Algarve  and  in  Lisbon.  The  Jewish  population  in  Portugal  is  very 
small  (from  500  to  1 ,000)  and,  like  the  Protestant  population,  mainly 
limited  to  foreign  residents. 

Portugal  has  a  sizeable  Gypsy  population,  perhaps  as  many  as 
100,000,  most  of  whom  live  in  the  Algarve.  Despite  government 
efforts  to  integrate  them  into  the  larger  society,  Gypsies  remain 
a  group  apart,  seminomadic,  earning  their  living  by  begging, 
fortune-telling,  handicrafts,  and  trading. 

Portugal's  foreign  community  numbered  about  90,000  in  1987. 
It  consists  mainly  of  Africans  (about  40  percent),  Spaniards,  Brit- 
ish, Americans,  French,  and  Germans,  most  of  whom  live  in  Por- 
to, Lisbon,  the  area  around  Cascais,  the  Algarve,  and  the  Azores 
and  Madeira.  These  communities  are  not  large  and  generally  do 
not  become  involved  in  Portuguese  life. 

Portugal's  long  colonial  history,  more  than  half  a  millennium, 
has  left  some  traces  of  ethnic  diversity.  In  the  early  1990s,  the  in- 
digenous residents  of  the  former  colonies  were  found  mainly  in  Lis- 
bon, particularly  after  the  colonies  were  granted  independence  in 
the  mid-1970s.  Groups  of  Angolans,  Mozambicans,  Sao  Tomans, 
Timorese,  Goans,  and  Macaoans  have  settled  in  the  capital  city, 
and,  along  with  Brazilian  immigrants,  ended  Portugal's  traditional 
ethnic  homogeneity. 

The  Goans  come  from  the  Indian  subcontinent  and  are  usually 
educated,  Roman  Catholic,  and  Portuguese  speaking.  They  are 
better  assimilated  than  most  other  groups.  The  Macaoans  are  gener- 
ally of  Chinese  descent,  and  many  had  opened  businesses.  An- 
other group  from  Asia,  the  Timorese,  are  not  as  well  educated  as 
the  other  eastern  groups.  A  population  of  varying  size  of  black  im- 
migrants from  Portugal's  African  colonies  often  lives  together  in 
small  ghettos  in  Lisbon  and  does  not  generally  assimilate.  Many 
of  these  minorities  use  Portugal  as  a  stopping-off  point  en  route 
to  more  prosperous  countries  in  Western  Europe,  but  as  the  Por- 
tuguese economy  began  to  improve  in  the  second  half  of  the  1980s, 
more  chose  to  stay  permanently.  These  ethnic  minorities  from  the 
former  colonies  are  not  fully  assimilated  and  often  face,  to  a  vary- 
ing degree,  racial  and  cultural  prejudice.  The  small  size  of  these 
diverse  ethnic  groups,  however,  prevents  their  apartness  from  being 
a  serious  social  problem. 

The  only  group  from  the  former  colonies  that  is  fully  assimilat- 
ed, despite  some  cultural  and  adjustment  problems,  is  the  group 


95 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

coming  from  the  former  colonies  in  Africa  who  are  of  Portuguese 
descent.  They  have  much  the  same  racial  and  cultural  background 
as  the  Portuguese  themselves.  Some  of  them,  like  some  of  the 
Brazilians,  did  very  well  in  their  cultural  homeland  and  even  be- 
came wealthy. 

Religion  and  the  Role  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church 

Portugal  is  profoundly  Roman  Catholic.  According  to  a  com- 
mon saying,  "To  be  Portuguese  is  to  be  Catholic";  in  the  early 
1990s,  approximately  97  percent  of  the  population  considered  it- 
self Roman  Catholic — the  highest  percentage  in  Western  Europe. 
Only  about  one-third  of  the  population  attends  mass  and  takes  the 
sacraments  regularly,  but  nearly  all  Portuguese  wish  to  be  bap- 
tized and  married  in  the  church  and  to  receive  its  last  rites. 

Portugal  is  Roman  Catholic  not  only  in  a  religious  sense,  but 
also  socially  and  culturally.  Although  church  and  state  were  for- 
mally separated  during  the  First  Republic  (1910-26),  a  separation 
reiterated  in  the  constitution  of  1976,  the  two  still  form  a  seamless 
web  in  many  areas  of  life.  Catholic  precepts  historically  undergird 
the  society  as  well  as  the  polity.  The  traditional  notions  of  authority, 
hierarchy,  and  accepting  one's  station  in  life  all  stem  from  Roman 
Catholic  teachings.  Many  Portuguese  holidays  and  festivals  have 
religious  origins,  and  the  country's  moral  and  legal  codes  derive 
from  Roman  Catholic  precepts.  The  educational  and  health  care 
systems  have  long  been  the  church's  preserve,  and  whenever  a 
building,  bridge,  or  highway  is  opened,  it  receives  the  blessing  of 
the  clergy.  Hence,  although  church  and  state  are  formally  sepa- 
rated, absolute  separation  is  not  possible  in  practice. 

History 

Portugal  was  first  Christianized  while  part  of  the  Roman  Em- 
pire. Christianity  was  solidified  when  the  Visigoths,  a  Germanic 
tribe  already  Christianized,  came  into  the  Iberian  Peninsula  in  the 
fifth  century  (see  Germanic  Invasions,  ch.  1).  Christianity  was  near- 
ly extinguished  in  southern  Portugal  during  Moorish  rule,  but  in 
the  north  it  provided  the  cultural  and  religious  cement  that  helped 
hold  Portugal  together  as  a  distinctive  entity  (see  Muslim  Domi- 
nation, ch.  1).  By  the  same  token,  Christianity  was  the  rallying 
cry  of  those  who  rose  up  against  the  Moors  and  sought  to  drive 
them  out  (see  Christian  Reconquest,  ch.  1).  Hence,  Christianity 
and  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  predated  the  establishment  of  the 
Portuguese  nation,  a  point  that  shaped  relations  between  the  two. 

Under  Afonso  Henriques  (r.  1 139-85),  the  first  king  of  Portugal 
and  the  founder  of  the  Portuguese  state,  church  and  state  were 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


unified  into  a  lasting  and  mutually  beneficial  partnership  (see  For- 
mation of  the  Monarchy,  ch.  1).  To  secure  papal  recognition  of 
his  country,  Afonso  declared  Portugal  a  vassal  state  of  the  pope. 
The  king  found  the  church  to  be  a  useful  ally  as  he  drove  the  Moors 
toward  the  south  and  out  of  Portuguese  territory.  For  its  support 
of  his  policies,  Afonso  richly  rewarded  the  church  by  granting  it 
vast  lands  and  privileges  in  the  territories  conquered  from  the 
Moors.  The  church  became  the  country's  largest  landowner,  and 
its  power  came  to  be  equal  to  that  of  the  nobility,  the  military  ord- 
ers, and  even,  for  a  time,  the  crown.  But  Afonso  also  asserted  his 
supremacy  over  the  church,  a  supremacy  that — with  various  ups 
and  downs — was  maintained. 

Although  relations  between  the  Portuguese  state  and  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church  were  generally  amiable  and  stable,  their  relative 
power  fluctuated.  In  the  thirteenth  century  and  fourteenth  centu- 
ry, the  church  enjoyed  both  riches  and  power  stemming  from  its 
role  in  the  reconquest  and  its  close  identification  with  early  Por- 
tuguese nationalism.  For  a  time  the  church's  position  vis-a-vis  the 
state  diminished  until  the  growth  of  the  Portuguese  overseas  em- 
pire made  its  missionaries  important  agents  of  colonization. 

In  1497,  reflecting  events  that  had  occurred  five  years  earlier 
in  Spain,  Portugal  expelled  the  Jews  and  the  remaining  Moors — 
or  forced  them  to  convert.  In  1536  the  pope  gave  King  Joao  III 
(r.  1521-57)  permission  to  establish  the  Inquisition  in  Portugal  to 
enforce  the  purity  of  the  faith  (see  Counter- Reformation  and  Over- 
seas Evangelization,  ch.  1).  Earlier  the  country  had  been  rather 
tolerant,  but  now  orthodoxy  and  intolerance  reigned.  The  Jesuit 
order  was  placed  in  charge  of  all  education. 

In  the  eighteenth  century,  antichurch  sentiment  became  strong. 
The  Marques  de  Pombal  (r.  1750-77)  expelled  the  Jesuits  in  1759, 
broke  relations  with  Rome,  and  brought  education  under  the  state's 
control  (see  Absolutism,  ch.  1).  Pombal  was  eventually  removed 
from  his  office,  and  many  of  his  reforms  were  undone,  but  anti- 
clericalism  remained  a  force  in  Portuguese  society.  In  1821  the  In- 
quisition was  abolished,  religious  orders  were  banned,  and  the 
church  lost  much  of  its  property.  Relations  between  church  and 
state  improved  in  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century,  but 
a  new  wave  of  anticlericalism  emerged  with  the  establishment  of 
the  First  Republic  in  1910  (see  The  First  Republic,  ch.  1).  Not 
only  were  church  properties  seized  and  education  secularized,  but 
the  republic  went  so  far  as  to  ban  the  ringing  of  church  bells,  the 
wearing  of  clerical  garb  on  the  streets,  and  the  holding  of  many 
popular,  religious  festivals.  These  radical  steps  antagonized  many 
deeply  religious  Portuguese,  cost  the  republic  popular  support,  and 


97 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

paved  the  way  for  its  overthrow  and  the  establishment  of  a  conser- 
vative right-wing  regime. 

The  Salazar  Regime 

Under  the  dictatorship  of  Antonio  de  Oliveira  Salazar  (r. 
1928-68),  the  church  experienced  a  revival  (see  The  New  State, 
ch,  1).  Salazar  was  himself  deeply  religious  and  infused  with  Ro- 
man Catholic  precepts.  Before  studying  law  he  had  been  a  semi- 
narian; his  roommate  at  the  University  of  Coimbra,  Manuel 
Gongalves  Cerejeira,  later  became  cardinal  patriarch  of  Lisbon. 
In  addition,  Salazar' s  corporative  principles  and  his  constitution 
and  labor  statute  of  1933  were  infused  with  Roman  Catholic 
precepts  from  the  papal  encyclicals  Rerum  Novarum  (1891)  and  Quad- 
ragesimo  Anno  (1931). 

Salazar' s  state  was  established  on  the  principles  of  traditional 
Roman  Catholicism,  with  an  emphasis  on  order,  discipline,  and 
authority.  Class  relations  were  supposed  to  be  based  on  harmony 
rather  than  the  Marxist  concept  of  conflict.  The  family,  the  par- 
ish, and  Christianity  were  said  to  be  the  foundations  of  the  state. 
Salazar  went  considerably  beyond  these  principles,  however,  and 
established  a  full-fledged  dictatorship.  His  corporative  state  con- 
tinued about  equal  blends  of  Roman  Catholic  principles  and 
Mussolini-like  fascism. 

In  1940  a  concordat  governing  church-state  relations  was  signed 
between  Portugal  and  the  Vatican.  The  church  was  to  be 
"separate"  from  the  state  but  to  enjoy  a  special  position.  The  Con- 
cordat of  1 940  reversed  many  of  the  anticlerical  policies  undertaken 
during  the  republic,  and  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  was  given 
exclusive  control  over  religious  instruction  in  the  public  schools. 
Only  Catholic  clergy  could  serve  as  chaplains  in  the  armed  forces. 
Divorce,  which  had  been  legalized  by  the  republic,  was  again  made 
illegal  for  those  married  in  a  church  service.  The  church  was  given 
formal  "juridical  personality,"  enabling  it  to  incorporate  and  hold 
property. 

Under  Salazar,  church  and  state  in  Portugal  maintained  a  com- 
fortable and  mutually  reinforcing  relationship.  While  assisting  the 
church  in  many  ways,  however,  Salazar  insisted  that  it  stay  out 
of  politics — unless  it  praised  his  regime.  Dissent  and  criticism  were 
forbidden;  those  clergy  who  stepped  out  of  line — an  occasional  par- 
ish priest  and  once  the  bishop  of  Porto — were  silenced  or  forced 
to  leave  the  country. 

Changes  after  the  Revolution  of  1974 

In  the  Portuguese  constitution  of  1976,  church  and  state  were 


98 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


again  formally  separated.  The  church  continues  to  have  a  special 
place  in  Portugal,  but  for  the  most  part  it  has  been  disestablished. 
Other  religions  are  now  free  to  organize  and  practice  their  beliefs. 

In  addition  to  undergoing  constitutional  changes,  Portugal  be- 
came a  more  secular  society.  Traditional  Roman  Catholicism 
flourished  while  Portugal  was  overwhelmingly  poor,  rural,  and  il- 
literate, but  as  the  country  became  more  urban,  literate,  and  secular 
the  practice  of  religion  declined.  The  number  of  men  becoming 
priests  fell,  as  did  charitable  offerings  and  attendance  at  mass.  By 
the  early  1990s,  most  Portuguese  still  considered  themselves  Ro- 
man Catholic  in  a  vaguely  cultural  and  religious  sense,  but  only 
about  one-third  of  them  attended  mass  regularly.  Indifference  to 
religion  was  most  likely  among  men  and  young  people.  Regular 
churchgoers  were  most  often  women  and  young  children. 

The  church  no  longer  has  its  former  social  influence.  During 
the  nineteenth  century  and  on  into  the  Salazar  regime,  the  church 
was  one  of  the  most  powerful  institutions  in  the  country — along 
with  the  army  and  the  economic  elite.  In  fact,  military,  economic, 
governmental,  and  religious  influences  in  Portugal  were  closely  in- 
tertwined and  interrelated,  often  literally  so.  Traditionally,  the  first 
son  of  elite  families  inherited  land,  the  second  went  into  the  army, 
and  the  third  became  a  bishop.  By  the  early  1990s,  however,  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church  no  longer  enjoyed  this  preeminence  and 
had  fallen  to  seventh  or  eighth  place  in  power  among  Portuguese 
interest  groups. 

During  the  height  of  the  revolutionary  turmoil  in  the  mid-1970s, 
the  church  had  urged  its  communicants  to  vote  for  centrist  and 
conservative  candidates  and  to  repudiate  communists,  especially 
in  northern  Portugal,  but  after  that  period  the  church  refrained 
from  such  an  overt  political  role.  The  church  was  not  able  to  pre- 
vent the  enactment  of  the  constitution  of  1976,  which  separated 
church  and  state,  nor  could  it  block  legislation  liberalizing  divorce 
and  abortion,  issues  it  regarded  as  moral  issues  within  the  realm 
of  its  responsibility.  By  the  1980s,  the  church  seldom  tried  to  in- 
fluence how  Portuguese  voted,  knowing  such  attempts  would  prob- 
ably backfire. 

Religious  Practices 

The  practice  of  religion  in  Portugal  shows  striking  regional  differ- 
ences. Even  in  the  early  1990s,  60  to  70  percent  of  the  population 
in  the  traditionally  Roman  Catholic  north  regularly  attended  reli- 
gious services,  compared  with  10  to  15  percent  in  the  historically 
anticlerical  south.  In  the  greater  Lisbon  area,  about  30  percent  were 
regular  churchgoers. 


99 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


The  traditional  importance  of  Roman  Catholicism  in  the  lives 
of  the  Portuguese  is  evident  in  the  physical  organization  of  almost 
every  village  in  Portugal.  The  village  churches  are  usually  in  promi- 
nent locations,  either  on  the  main  square  or  on  a  hilltop  overlook- 
ing the  villages.  Many  of  the  churches  and  chapels  were  built  in 
the  sixteenth  century  at  the  height  of  Portugal's  colonial  expan- 
sion and  might  and  were  often  decorated  with  wood  and  gold  leaf 
from  the  conquests.  In  recent  decades,  however,  they  have  often 
been  in  disrepair,  for  there  are  not  enough  priests  to  tend  them. 
Many  are  used  only  rarely  to  honor  the  patron  saints  of  the  vil- 
lages. 

Much  of  the  country's  religious  life  has  traditionally  taken  place 
outside  the  formal  structure  and  official  domain  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church.  This  is  especially  true  in  rural  areas  where  the 
celebration  of  saints'  days  and  religious  festivals  are  popular.  The 
most  famous  of  Portuguese  religious  events  is  the  supposed  appa- 
rition of  the  Virgin  Mary  to  three  children  in  1917  in  the  village 
of  Fatima  in  the  province  of  Santarem.  Hundreds  of  thousands 
of  pilgrims  have  visited  the  shrine  at  Fatima  in  the  belief  that  the 
pilgrimage  could  bring  about  healing. 

Rural  Portuguese  often  seek  to  establish  a  close  and  personal 
relationship  with  their  saints.  Believing  God  to  be  a  remote  and 
inaccessible  figure,  they  petition  patron  saints  to  act  as  inter- 
mediaries. This  system  of  patronage  resembles  that  operating 
in  the  secular  realm.  To  win  their  saint's  goodwill,  believers  pre- 
sent the  saint  with  gifts,  gave  alms  to  the  poor,  and  demonstrate 
upright  behavior,  hoping  that  the  saint  might  intercede  on  their 
behalf  with  God. 

Women  tend  to  practice  their  religion  more  than  men  do,  as 
evidenced  by  church  attendance.  In  addition,  the  Virgin  Mary, 
who  is  the  most  popular  of  the  spiritual  mediators,  is  often 
revered  more  than  Jesus  and  serves  as  the  patron  of  religious  pro- 
cessions. The  image  of  the  Virgin,  as  well  as  that  of  Christ,  is 
commonly  displayed,  even  in  labor  union  offices  or  on  signs  in 
demonstrations. 

The  Roman  Catholic  Church  sometimes  criticizes  religious  folk 
practices  for  dividing  people  from  their  God.  The  church  cannot 
monitor  all  folk  customs,  however,  and  such  practices  continue  even 
in  the  1990s.  Moreover,  the  church  recognizes  that  many  Por- 
tuguese feel  at  least  as  much  loyalty  to  their  saints  and  customary 
religious  practices  as  they  do  to  the  more  formal  church.  For  these 
reasons,  it  is  not  unusual  that  the  church  tolerates  and  sometimes 
even  encourages  these  practices  as  a  way  of  maintaining  popular 
adherence  to  Roman  Catholicism. 


100 


Streetcar  in  Lisbon 
Children  playing  in  a  Lisbon  courtyard 
Courtesy  Daniele  Kbhler 


101 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Other  aspects  of  Portuguese  folk  religion,  including  witchcraft, 
magic,  and  sorcery,  are  not  approved  by  the  official  church.  For- 
mal religion,  folk  beliefs,  and  superstition  are  frequently  jumbled 
together,  and  in  the  popular  mind  all  are  part  of  being  Roman 
Catholic.  Particularly  in  the  isolated  villages  of  northern  Portu- 
gal, belief  in  witches,  witchcraft,  and  evil  spirits  is  widespread.  Some 
persons  believe  in  the  concept  of  the  "evil  eye"  and  fear  those  who 
supposedly  possess  it.  Again,  women  are  the  main  practitioners. 
Almost  every  village  has  its  "seers,"  practitioners  of  magic,  and 
"healers."  Evil  spirits  and  even  werewolves  are  thought  to  inhabit 
the  mountains  and  byways,  and  it  is  believed  that  people  must  be 
protected  from  them.  Children  and  young  women  are  thought  to 
be  particularly  vulnerable  to  the  "evil  eye." 

As  people  became  better  educated  and  moved  to  the  city,  they 
lost  some  of  these  folk  beliefs.  But  in  the  city  and  among  educated 
persons  alike,  superstition  can  still  be  found,  even  in  the  early  1990s. 
Sorcerers,  palm  readers,  and  readers  of  cards  have  shops,  particu- 
larly in  poorer  neighborhoods,  but  not  exclusively  so.  In  short,  a 
strong  undercurrent  of  superstition  still  remains  in  Portugal.  The 
formal  church  disapproves  of  superstitious  practices  but  is  power- 
less to  do  much  about  them. 

In  contrast  to  the  Catholicism  found  in  Spain,  Portuguese 
Catholicism  is  softer  and  less  intense.  The  widespread  use  of  folk 
practices  and  the  humanization  of  religion  made  for  a  loving  though 
remote  God,  in  contrast  to  the  harshness  of  the  Spanish  vision. 
In  Portugal,  unlike  in  Spain,  God  and  his  saints  are  imagined  as 
forgiving  and  serene.  In  Spain  the  expressions  depicted  on  the  faces 
of  saints  and  martyrs  are  painful  and  anguished;  in  Portugal  they 
are  complacent,  calm,  and  pleasant. 

Non-Catholic  Religious  Groups 

For  most  of  Portugal's  history,  few  non-Catholics  lived  in  the 
country;  those  who  did  could  not  practice  their  religion  freely.  Until 
the  constitution  of  1976  was  enacted,  laws  restricted  the  activities 
of  non-Catholics.  By  the  early  1990s,  only  some  50,000  to  60,000 
Protestants  lived  in  Portugal,  about  1  percent  of  the  total  popula- 
tion. They  had  been  kept  out  of  the  country  for  three  centuries 
by  the  Inquisition.  However,  the  British  who  began  settling  in  Por- 
tugal in  the  nineteenth  century  brought  their  religions  with  them. 
Most  belonged  to  the  Church  of  England,  but  others  were 
Methodists,  Congregationalists,  Baptists,  and  Presbyterians.  Pro- 
testantism remained  largely  confined  to  the  foreign  communities. 
The  1950s  and  1960s  saw  the  arrival  of  Pentecostals,  Mormons, 
and  Jehovah's  Witnesses,  all  of  whom  increased  in  numbers  more 


102 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


rapidly  than  the  earlier  arrivals  did.  All  groups,  however,  were  ham- 
pered by  prohibitions  and  restrictions  against  the  free  exercise  of 
their  religions,  especially  missionary  activities. 

These  restrictions  were  lifted  after  the  Revolution  of  1974.  The 
constitution  of  1976  guarantees  all  religions  the  right  to  practice 
their  faith.  Protestant  groups  have  been  recognized  as  legal  enti- 
ties with  the  right  to  assemble.  In  addition,  Portuguese  who  are 
both  Protestant  and  conscientious  objectors  have  the  right  to  ap- 
ply for  alternative  military  service.  The  Roman  Catholic  Church, 
however,  still  seeks  to  place  barriers  in  the  way  of  Protestant  mis- 
sionary activities. 

The  Jewish  community  in  Portugal  numbered  between  500  and 
1 ,000  as  of  the  early  1990s.  The  community  is  concentrated  in  Lis- 
bon, and  many  of  its  members  are  foreigners.  The  persecution  of 
Portuguese  Jewry  had  been  so  intense  that  until  recent  decades  Por- 
tugal had  no  synagogue  or  even  regular  Jewish  religious  services. 
The  few  Jewish  Portuguese  were  hence  isolated  from  the  main  cur- 
rents of  Judaism.  Their  community  began  to  revive  when  larger 
numbers  of  foreign  Jews  (embassy  personnel,  business  people,  and 
technicians)  began  coming  to  Portugal  in  the  1960s  and  1970s.  In 
northern  Portugal,  there  are  a  few  villages  of  Marranos,  descen- 
dants of  Jews  who  converted  to  Christianity  to  avoid  persecution 
and  whose  religion  is  a  mixture  of  Judaism  and  Christianity.  Por- 
tugal's Muslim  community  consists  of  a  small  number  of  im- 
migrants from  Portugal's  former  colonies  in  Southern  Africa  and 
larger  numbers  of  recent  immigrant  workers  from  Northern  Afri- 
ca, mainly  Morocco. 

Education 

Even  before  Portugal  emerged  as  an  independent  country  in  the 
twelfth  century,  it  had  monastic,  cathedral,  and  parish  schools.  The 
education  provided  by  these  schools  was  based  on  the  teachings 
of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  rote  memorization,  and  a  deduc- 
tive system  of  reasoning.  The  educational  system  expanded  through 
the  founding  of  primary  and  secondary  schools  in  larger  settlements 
and  the  establishment  in  1290  of  the  University  of  Coimbra,  one 
of  the  oldest  universities  in  the  world.  The  system  was  infused  with 
the  principles  of  authority,  hierarchy,  and  discipline.  Although  local 
authorities,  both  municipal  and  ecclesiastical,  had  some  say  about 
the  management  of  local  schools,  officials  in  Lisbon,  most  of  them 
clerics,  determined  the  curriculum  and  selected  textbooks  and  in- 
structors. Education  was  thus  firmly  under  the  control  of  the  church 
and  civil  authorities.  The  introduction  of  the  Inquisition  in  the  1530s 


103 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

served  to  further  "purify"  teaching;  in  1555  the  Jesuits  were  given 
much  control  over  education. 

A  reaction  against  church-  and  Jesuit-dominated  education  set 
in  during  the  eighteenth  century.  Reformers  such  as  Luis  Anto- 
nio Verney  sought  to  infuse  Portuguese  education  with  the  ideals 
of  the  Enlightenment.  The  reforms  were  carried  out  by  the  Mar- 
ques de  Pombal,  prime  minister  from  1750  to  1777,  who  expelled 
the  Jesuits  in  1759,  created  the  basis  for  public  and  secular  primary 
and  secondary  schools,  introduced  vocational  training,  created 
hundreds  of  new  teaching  posts,  added  departments  of  mathemat- 
ics and  natural  sciences  to  the  University  of  Coimbra,  and  in- 
troduced new  taxes  to  pay  for  these  reforms. 

During  the  nineteenth  century,  educational  reform  was  slow  and 
halting.  Reforms  initiated  in  1822,  1835,  and  1844  were  left  un- 
completed and  largely  unimplemented.  However,  at  the  beginning 
of  the  century,  the  first  schools  for  girls  were  opened  in  Lisbon. 
Other  new  schools  included  the  Agricultural  Institute,  poly  techni- 
cal schools  in  Lisbon  and  Porto,  new  medical  schools  in  the  same 
two  cities,  and  a  new  department  of  liberal  arts  in  Lisbon.  The 
educational  system  remained  highly  elitist,  however,  with  illitera- 
cy rates  of  over  80  percent  and  higher  education  reserved  for  a  small 
percentage  of  the  population.  When  the  First  Republic  was  estab- 
lished in  1910,  efforts  were  made  to  overcome  these  problems.  New 
universities  were  created  in  Lisbon  and  Porto,  new  teacher  train- 
ing colleges  were  opened,  and  a  separate  Ministry  of  Public  In- 
struction was  established.  The  republican  government  sought  to 
reduce  illiteracy,  reintroduce  (as  with  Pombal)  a  more  secular  con- 
tent to  education,  and  to  bring  more  scientific  and  empirical 
methods  into  the  curriculum.  But  these  reforms  largely  stopped 
when  the  republic  was  overthrown  in  1926  and  the  military  and 
Salazar  came  to  power. 

Salazar  authorized  the  creation  of  a  new  technical  university  in 
Lisbon  in  1930.  But  for  the  next  three  decades,  educational  inno- 
vation lagged,  illiteracy  remained  high,  vocational  training  was 
almost  nonexistent,  and  Portugal  reverted  to  a  situation  of  quasi- 
feudalism  characterized  by  the  most  backward  economy  and  edu- 
cation in  Western  Europe.  Only  in  the  mid-1960s  did  the  country 
make  public  education  available  for  all  children  between  the  ages 
of  six  and  twelve.  The  government  enacted  laws  to  equalize  educa- 
tional opportunities,  but  implementation  lagged  behind.  However, 
more  elementary  and  preparatory  schools  were  opened,  and  univer- 
sities were  established  in  Lisbon  and  other  regional  centers. 

The  Revolution  of  1974  and  the  overthrow  of  the  Salazar  re- 
gime disrupted  the  education  system.  Students  challenged  teachers, 


104 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


and  all  groups  challenged  administrators.  For  a  time  after  the  revo- 
lution, faculty  and  curriculum  were  highly  politicized  as  socialist, 
communist,  and  other  groups  vied  for  control  of  the  schools  and 
the  school  system.  During  the  1980s,  however,  as  Portuguese  pol- 
itics quieted  and  returned  to  the  center,  the  education  system  also 
became  less  frenetic,  greater  emphasis  was  placed  on  learning,  and 
efforts  were  made  to  raise  the  level  of  the  country's  schools  closer 
to  that  of  the  rest  of  Europe. 

The  Portuguese  educational  system  is  governed  by  the  consti- 
tution of  1976.  The  constitution  guarantees  the  right  to  create  pri- 
vate schools.  It  proposes  to  eliminate  illiteracy,  to  provide  special 
education  to  those  children  who  need  it,  and  to  preserve  the  au- 
tonomy of  the  universities.  It  guarantees  the  rights  of  teachers  and 
students  to  take  part  in  the  democratic  administration  of  the  schools. 
In  addition  to  the  overall  guidance  provided  by  the  constitution, 
Portuguese  education  is  governed  by  decree-laws  promulgated  by 
the  executive  branch,  some  of  which  date  from  the  eighteenth 
century. 

As  of  the  early  1990s,  preschool  education  in  Portugal  was  limit- 
ed. Most  preschools  were  private,  but  government  regulation  and 
involvement  in  preschool  education  was  increasing.  Primary  edu- 
cation consisted  of  four  years  in  the  primary  cycle  and  two  years 
in  the  preparatory,  or  second,  cycle  (see  fig.  7).  Most  primary 
schools  were  public.  Many  Portuguese  living  in  rural  areas  received 
only  the  primary  cycle  of  schooling.  The  preparatory  cycle  (fifth 
and  sixth  grades)  was  intended  mainly  for  children  going  on  to 
secondary  education.  Provision  was  also  made  for  attendance  by 
older  students  who  might  already  be  working. 

Secondary  education  was  roughly  equivalent  to  junior  and  senior 
high  schools  in  the  United  States.  It  consisted  of  three  years  of  a 
unified  course  curriculum,  followed  by  a  two-year  complementary 
course  (tenth  and  eleventh  grades).  A  twelfth-grade  course  prepared 
students  to  take  the  university  and  technical  college  entrance  ex- 
aminations. 

Portuguese  primary  school  enrollments  were  close  to  100  per- 
cent in  the  early  1990s,  and  immense  strides  had  been  made  in 
eliminating  illiteracy,  especially  among  the  young;  an  estimated 
literacy  rate  of  85  percent  was  achieved  among  those  over  age  fifteen 
in  1990.  After  primary  school,  however,  school  enrollments  dropped 
off  sharply.  Only  30  percent  of  children  attended  secondary  schools, 
and  only  20  percent  were  enrolled  in  the  twelfth  grade. 

A  new  vocational  education  program  was  introduced  in  1983. 
By  the  late  1980s,  it  was  training  10,000  to  12,000  young  people 
a  year,  about  6  to  7  percent  of  an  age-group.  The  program  was 


105 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


GRADUATE  STUDY 


School  Year 

18 
17 
16 
15 
14 
13 

12 
11 
10 

9 

8 

7 

6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 


UNIVERSITY 


J 


J 


TWELFTH  YEAR 
COMPLEMENTARY  COURSE 


UNIFIED  COURSE 


PREPARATORY  CYCLE 


PRIMARY  CYCLE 


H 
I 

G 
H 
E 
R 


P 
R 
I 

M 
A 
R 
Y 


PRESCHOOL 


Figure  7.  Structure  of  the  Education  System,  1992 


106 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


conceived  as  a  three-year  course  that  would  permit  students  to  enter 
the  work  force  with  a  set  of  skills  after  the  eleventh  grade. 

In  the  early  1990s,  higher  education  included  four  older  univer- 
sities (Lisbon,  Coimbra,  Porto,  and  the  Technical  University  of 
Lisbon),  as  well  as  six  newer  universities  (Nova  University  in  Lis- 
bon and  others  in  Minho,  Aveiro,  Evora,  in  the  Algarve,  and  in 
the  Azores).  The  university  sector  also  included  the  private  Catholic 
University  and  the  Free  University,  both  in  Lisbon.  In  addition, 
there  were  special  postsecondary  institutes,  schools,  and  academies 
such  as  the  Institute  of  Applied  Psychology,  the  social  welfare  in- 
stitutes of  Lisbon  and  Porto,  the  engineering  institutes  of  Lisbon, 
Porto,  and  Coimbra,  an  agricultural  college  at  Coimbra,  techni- 
cal colleges  in  Santarem  and  in  the  Algarve,  and  a  school  of  edu- 
cation at  Viseu. 

Admission  to  the  university  is  a  highly  competitive  process, 
although  it  can  be  waived  if  a  student  obtains  a  high  score  in  the 
final  examinations  from  secondary  school.  Only  about  10  percent 
of  college-age  students  attend  one  of  the  country's  universities  or 
postsecondary  institutes,  compared  with  50  percent  in  the  United 
States.  Thus,  higher  education  is  by  no  means  universal  but  rather 
oriented  toward  a  small  elite.  This  elite,  in  turn,  tends  to  dominate 
government,  big  business,  and  the  professions. 

The  average  length  of  study  at  the  university  level  is  five  years 
and  leads  to  the  awarding  of  a  licentiate,  although  some  schools 
have  two-year  programs  and  others  offer  a  bachelor's  degree.  Doc- 
torates are  awarded  in  some  departments  after  further  advanced 
studies,  an  oral  examination,  and  the  defense  of  a  thesis. 

The  faculties  had  four  ranks  as  of  the  early  1990s:  full  profes- 
sors, associate  professors,  lecturers,  and  assistants.  Full  professors 
could  be  appointed  directly,  or  their  appointments  might  come 
through  competitive  examinations.  Full  professors  receive  life  ap- 
pointments; persons  of  other  ranks  are  under  contract.  University 
staffs,  including  faculty,  are  part  of  the  civil  service  and  receive 
pay  and  pensions  like  other  civil  servants. 

The  Portuguese  educational  system  is  highly  centralized.  Despite 
some  efforts  at  decentralization  in  the  constitution  of  1976,  the 
Ministry  of  Education  and  Culture  in  Lisbon  sets  education  policy 
for  the  entire  nation.  Local  or  regional  districts  have  litde  indepen- 
dent authority  to  tax,  with  the  result  that  funds,  curriculum,  policy, 
and  other  matters  are  set  at  the  national  level. 

As  of  the  early  1990s,  Portugal  still  had  an  illiteracy  rate  that 
ranged  between  14  and  20  percent  according  to  various  studies  and 
estimates,  although  many  of  those  who  could  not  read  were  older 
people.  Another  serious  problem  was  low  school  enrollment  after 


107 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

the  primary  cycle,  especially  in  rural  areas,  where  many  children 
begin  work  at  an  early  age.  As  of  1987,  87.4  percent  of  Portuguese 
completed  less  than  the  upper  level  of  secondary  school,  a  rate  that 
had  improved  only  slightly  in  recent  decades  and  was  much  in- 
ferior to  the  EC  average  of  54  percent.  Facilities  and  equipment 
at  all  levels  are  often  outdated  and  in  short  supply.  Although  the 
number  of  school  teachers  has  increased  greatly  in  recent  years, 
teachers  are  poorly  paid,  and  their  overall  morale  is  poor.  Many 
specialists  hold  that  the  curriculum  at  the  secondary  level  needs 
to  be  revised  to  make  it  more  relevant  in  preparing  young  people 
for  their  working  lives.  In  addition  to  more  modern  facilities,  the 
universities  need  to  increase  their  enrollments  and  support  research 
more  strongly. 

Social  Welfare 

On  most  indices  of  social  modernization,  Portugal  ranks  at  or 
near  the  bottom  for  all  of  Western  Europe.  Even  in  the  early  1990s, 
despite  some  significant  economic  growth  in  the  second  half  of  the 
1980s,  Portugal  remains  relatively  poor  by  West  European  stan- 
dards. Although  its  range  of  public  welfare  programs  is  extensive, 
it  lacks  the  funds  to  fully  implement  them  and  to  pay  substantial 
benefits. 

Charity  and  alms-giving  were  traditionally  thought  to  be  the 
responsibility  of  the  church.  It  provided  welfare  to  the  poor  and 
took  care  of  the  sick,  widows,  and  orphans.  In  addition,  landown- 
ers and  employers  fulfilled  their  obligations  of  Christian  charity 
by  aiding  the  less  fortunate  through  gifts,  assistance,  patronage, 
and  benefits.  The  charitable  institution  established  by  Queen 
Leonor  in  the  late  fifteen  century,  Santa  Casa  de  Misericordia,  had, 
even  in  the  early  1990s,  offices  all  through  Portugal.  Its  charitable 
operations  were  financed  by  the  national  lottery.  This  system  of  char- 
ity provided  by  the  church  and  the  elite  probably  worked  tolerably 
well  through  the  1920s,  as  long  as  Portugal  remained  a  rural  and 
Roman  Catholic  society.  But  urbanization,  secularism,  and  large- 
scale  impersonal  organizations  rendered  the  old  system  inadequate. 

Salazar's  corporative  system  attempted  to  fill  the  void  but  did 
so  poorly.  Only  in  the  1960s,  far  later  than  in  other  countries,  were 
the  first  steps  taken  toward  a  modern  state-run  welfare  system.  As 
could  be  expected,  the  services  this  system  provided  were  incom- 
plete, irregular,  and  woefully  underfunded.  Urban  centers  received 
some  benefits,  but  almost  none  went  to  the  countryside.  During 
the  revolutionary  1970s,  numerous  health  and  social  welfare  pro- 
grams were  established,  but  only  in  the  1980s  did  Portugal  have 
the  stability  and  the  resources  to  begin  their  implementation. 


108 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Social  Welfare  Programs 

As  of  the  early  1990s,  Portugal  had  a  fairly  elaborate  social  wel- 
fare system,  including  programs  that  provided  benefits  for  the  elder- 
ly and  the  seriously  ill  or  disabled.  However,  the  benefits  paid  by 
these  programs  were  still  quite  low,  and  an  estimated  3  million  Por- 
tuguese lived  below  the  EC  poverty  line. 

The  programs'  benefits  were  financed  by  employee  and  employer 
contributions  (roughly  10  and  25  percent,  respectively).  Most  of 
the  programs  were  the  responsibility  of  the  Ministry  of  Employ- 
ment and  Social  Security  and  were  administered  by  regional  so- 
cial security  centers.  The  Ministry  of  Health  was  involved  in 
programs  concerned  with  medical  care. 

As  of  the  early  1990s,  men  and  women  could  retire  at  sixty-five 
and  sixty-two  years  of  age,  respectively,  and  be  eligible  for  old- 
age  pensions.  Miners  were  eligible  for  retirement  at  fifty  and  mer- 
chant sailors  at  fifty-five  years  of  age.  Benefits  ranged  from  30  to 
80  percent  of  recent  average  wages.  Permanent  disability  and  sur- 
vivor benefits  were  also  paid.  Unemployment  benefits  could  be  paid 
over  a  period  of  from  ten  to  thirty  months  and  amounted  to  65 
percent  of  earnings,  with  a  maximum  of  three  times  the  national 
minimum  wage  of  about  US$300  a  month. 

As  of  1991,  maternity  benefits  amounted  to  100  percent  of  the 
mother's  pay  for  a  period  of  three  months,  one  month  before  and 
two  months  after  the  birth.  Sickness  benefits  amounted  to  65  per- 
cent of  wages  for  up  to  1,095  days;  after  this  period,  the  benefit 
was  converted  to  a  permanent  disability  benefit.  Accidents  at  work 
were  covered  by  private  insurance  carried  by  employers;  payments 
could  amount  to  two-thirds  of  basic  earnings.  Small  family  al- 
lowances were  paid  to  help  rear  children  until  they  reached  the  age 
of  fifteen  or  the  age  of  twenty-five  if  they  were  students. 

Health  Care 

Health  conditions  in  Portugal  have  long  been  among  the  poor- 
est in  Western  Europe.  Although  recent  decades  have  seen  substan- 
tial improvements,  Portugal  still  lags  behind  most  of  the  continent 
in  some  categories  of  health  care.  Portuguese  life  expectancy  at 
birth  rose  from  sixty-two  years  for  men  and  sixty-seven  for  wom- 
en in  1960  to  seventy-one  and  seventy-eight,  respectively,  in  1992. 
The  country's  infant  mortality  rate  in  1970  was  58  deaths  per 
1,000 — one  of  the  highest  in  Europe  and  close  to  Third  World 
levels — but  by  1992  it  had  dropped  to  10  per  1 ,000.  However,  the 
chief  causes  of  death  among  the  young  are  infectious  and  parasitic 
diseases  and  diseases  of  the  respiratory  system,  a  Third  World 


109 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

pattern  found  in  rural  areas  and  in  city  slums.  Malnutrition  and 
related  diseases  are  also  widespread.  The  chief  cause  of  deaths 
among  adults  is  thrombosis,  followed  by  cancer.  About  400  Por- 
tuguese die  each  year  from  tuberculosis. 

The  number  of  doctors,  dentists,  and  nurses  increased  greatly 
between  1960  and  the  early  1990s.  At  26,400  in  1987,  the  number 
of  physicians  actively  practicing  medicine  in  Portugal  represented 
a  fourfold  increase  over  the  total  in  1960.  The  number  of  dentists 
expanded  even  more  dramatically,  from  120  in  1960  to  5,700  in 
1986.  As  of  1987,  the  number  of  medical  personnel  per  occupied 
hospital  bed  was  1.7,  compared  with  0.24  in  1960.  By  1990  there 
were  2.9  doctors  per  1,000  Portuguese,  a  ratio  higher  than  that 
found  in  most  West  European  countries.  However,  most  medical 
personnel  are  concentrated  in  urban  centers,  to  the  detriment  of 
those  needing  health  care  in  rural  areas.  In  the  latter  areas,  folk 
health  practitioners  are  not  uncommon,  even  in  the  early  1990s. 
Their  medical  practices  are  often  fused  with  magical,  religious,  and 
superstitious  elements. 

Portuguese  are  able  to  take  advantage  of  a  national  health  sys- 
tem that,  since  the  second  half  of  the  1970s,  had  paid  100  percent 
of  most  medical  and  pharmaceutical  expenses.  The  system,  man- 
aged by  the  Ministry  of  Health,  offers  care  at  large  urban  hospi- 
tals, several  dozen  regional  hospitals,  and  numerous  health  centers. 
The  health  centers  specialize  in  providing  primary  care.  Care 
provided  by  the  national  system  ranges  from  the  most  sophisticated 
to  basic  preventive  medicine. 

The  national  health  system's  overriding  problems  are  the  long 
waits,  frequently  months  in  duration,  for  medical  care,  that  result 
from  shortages  of  financial  resources,  lack  of  personnel,  and  in- 
adequate facilities.  Medical  facilities  in  Portugal  range  from  those 
of  centuries  past  to  the  ultramodern.  Partly  as  a  result  of  these  in- 
adequacies, there  is  a  substantial  private  medical  sector  that  offers 
better  care.  Many  doctors  and  other  medical  personnel  work  in 
both  the  public  and  private  system,  often  because  of  the  low  salar- 
ies paid  by  the  national  system. 

Housing 

Much  Portuguese  housing  is  substandard,  both  in  rural  and  in 
urban  areas.  Many  rural  villages  were  not  electrified  even  by  the 
early  1990s,  and  villagers  often  had  to  carry  water  from  a  com- 
mon source.  The  influx  of  rural  migrants  to  urban  centers  in  re- 
cent decades  intensified  demand  on  an  already  inadequate  housing 
supply.  Although  60  percent  of  Portuguese  rent  their  houses  (80 
percent  in  Lisbon  and  Porto),  rigid  rent  control  laws  in  effect 


110 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


between  1948  and  1985  had  discouraged  the  construction  of  apart- 
ments, as  did  a  sluggish  bureaucracy.  As  a  result,  in  the  late  1980s 
an  estimated  700,000  illegally  constructed  dwellings  existed  in  Por- 
tugal, 200,000  of  which  were  located  in  the  Lisbon  area.  Some  were 
built  on  public  or  unused  private  lands.  The  resulting  urban 
shantytowns  (bairros  da  lata)  often  lacked  electricity,  running  water, 
or  sewage  systems. 

In  Lisbon's  suburbs,  gigantic  apartment  houses  were  built  for 
the  more  affluent  new  city-dwellers,  but  the  supply  of  decent,  af- 
fordable housing  lagged  far  behind  the  demand,  estimated  at 
800,000  dwellings  for  the  entire  country.  A  succession  of  Portuguese 
governments  recognized  this  severe  housing  problem  and  sought 
to  do  something  about  it.  For  example,  the  National  Housing  In- 
stitute planned  to  build  70,000  dwellings  a  year  during  the  1990s, 
and  various  programs  to  help  people  become  homeowners  had  been 
put  into  practice. 

*    *  * 

Portugal  was  long  the  most  understudied  country  in  Western 
Europe.  The  authoritarian  nature  of  the  Salazar  regime  made  so- 
cial science  research  on  contemporary  issues  all  but  impossible  to 
carry  out;  Portuguese  social  sciences  also  lagged  behind.  Despite 
these  obstacles,  some  very  good  studies  were  done.  Among  them 
were  works  by  Joyce  Firstenberg  Riegelhaupt  in  anthropology,  Joao 
Baptista  Nunes  Pereira  Neto  and  Aderito  Sedas  Nunes  in  sociolo- 
gy, and  Jose  Cutileiro's  pioneering^  Portuguese  Rural  Society.  Har- 
ry M.  Makler  broke  new  ground  in  his  investigations  of  Portugal's 
business  elite,  as  did  Massimo  Livi  Bacci  in  his  demographic  study, 
A  Century  of  Portuguese  Fertility. 

Social  science  scholarship  has  flourished  in  Portugal  since  the 
Revolution  of  1974,  as  specialists  there  have  looked  into  many 
unexplored  aspects  of  their  society.  Readers  needing  sociological 
analyses  in  English  will  profit  from  the  survey  edited  by  Lawrence 
S.  Graham  and  Douglas  L.  Wheeler,  In  Search  of  Modern  Portugal, 
and  the  study  edited  by  Lawrence  S.  Graham  and  Harry  M.  Ma- 
kler, Contemporary  Portugal.  Economic  and  social  data  are  also  found 
in  the  historical  surveys  Contemporary  Portugal  by  Richard  Alan  Hodg- 
son Robinson  and  Portugal:  A  Twentieth  Century  Interpretation  by  Tom 
Gallagher. 

Among  the  best  political-sociological  studies  are  Nancy  Bermeo's 
The  Revolution  Within  the  Revolution,  which  deals  with  revolution  in 
the  countryside,  and  Caroline  Brettel's  Men  Who  Migrate,  Women 
Who  Wait,  an  excellent  study  of  Portuguese  emigration.  Thomas 


111 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


C.  Bruneau,  Victor  M.P.  Da  Rosa,  and  Alex  Macleod  provide 
much  useful  information  in  their  Portugal  in  Development.  Rainer  Eis- 
feld's  "Portugal  and  Western  Europe,"  in  Portugal  in  the  1980s, 
edited  by  Kenneth  Maxwell,  is  also  helpful.  Finally,  Marion 
Kaplan's  1991  book,  The  Portuguese:  The  Land  and  Its  People,  although 
not  aimed  at  a  scholarly  audience,  is  often  highly  informative  about 
contemporary  Portuguese  society.  (For  further  information  and 
complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


112 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Tending  wine  casks 


PORTUGAL'S  POLITICAL  ECONOMY  holds  our  interest  for 
a  number  of  reasons.  First,  Portugal,  a  founding  member  both  of 
the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO)  and  the  Euro- 
pean Free  Trade  Association  (EFTA— see  Glossary),  is  one  of  the 
newest  members  (along  with  Spain)  of  the  European  Community 
(EC — see  Glossary).  Second,  scholars  interested  in  revolutionary 
change  and  the  associated  economic  consequences  can  compare  the 
Portuguese  experience  with  that  of  other  nations  that  have  under- 
gone rapid  systemic  transformation.  Third,  Portugal's  recent  ex- 
periment with  nationalization  of  the  means  of  production  is  of 
particular  interest  to  students  of  industrial  organization  and  pub- 
lic enterprise  economics. 

As  a  fledgling  member  of  the  EC ,  Portugal  was  required  to  adopt 
the  EC's  Common  External  Tariff  on  imports  from  nonmember 
countries  and  the  Common  Agricultural  Policy  (CAP).  Portugal 
also  was  required  to  eliminate  all  barriers  to  the  movement  of  goods, 
services,  and  capital  between  itself  and  the  other  members  of  the 
European  Economic  Community  (EEC — see  Glossary),  as  well  as 
to  phase  out  fiscal  subsidies  that  distort  competition.  During  a  tran- 
sition period  ending  in  1993,  Portugal  was  a  net  recipient  of 
EC  funds  to  assist  in  the  restructuring  of  its  relatively  backward 
economy. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  Portugal's  economy  was  classi- 
fied by  the  World  Bank  (see  Glossary)  as  an  upper-middle-income 
economy.  Its  1990  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary) 
on  a  purchasing  power  parity  basis  was  US$82  billion,  and  its  per 
capita  GDP  was  estimated  at  US$8,364.  With  a  per  capita  GDP 
growth  rate  of  5.4  percent  in  1989,  Portugal  moved  ahead  of  Greece 
to  eleventh  place  among  the  twelve  members  of  the  EC. 

Several  distinctive  features  characterized  Portugal's  economy  at 
the  time  of  its  accession  to  the  EC .  One  of  the  most  striking  was 
its  dependence  on  foreign  "invisible"  income.  This  income,  con- 
sisting of  tourism  receipts  and  emigrant  worker  remittances, 
financed  the  country's  large  merchandise  trade  deficit.  The  growth 
and  magnitude  of  tourism  together  with  the  explosive  rise  of  govern- 
ment services  largely  explain  the  expansion  of  the  services  sector 
to  nearly  56  percent  of  GDP  in  1990  from  39  percent  of  GDP  in 
1973.  One  of  every  three  Portuguese  workers  in  the  active  labor 
force  was  engaged  in  temporary  work  in  high-income  countries, 
mainly  France.  These  emigrant  workers,  numbering  about  2 


115 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

million,  contributed  significantly  to  Portugal's  foreign  exchange 
income,  as  well  as  to  the  country's  household  savings.  Although 
less  educated  and  technically  less  proficient  than  their  EC  coun- 
terparts, Portuguese  workers  are  recognized  for  their  strong  work 
ethic  and  frugality. 

Another  distinguishing  feature  is  Portugal's  anachronistic  agricul- 
tural sector,  whose  overall  performance  is  unfavorable  when  con- 
sidered in  the  context  of  the  country's  natural  resources  and  climatic 
conditions.  In  the  mid-1980s,  agricultural  productivity  was  half  that 
of  the  levels  in  Greece  and  Spain  and  a  quarter  of  the  EC  average. 
The  land  tenure  system  was  polarized  between  two  extremes:  small 
and  fragmented  family  farms  in  the  north  and  large  collective  farms 
in  the  south  that  proved  incapable  of  modernizing.  The  decollec- 
tivization  of  agriculture,  which  began  in  modest  form  in  the  late 
1970s  and  accelerated  in  the  late  1980s,  promised  to  increase  the 
efficiency  of  human  and  land  resources  in  the  south  during  the 
1990s. 

A  third  economic  distinction  is  the  scale  and  sectoral  spread  of 
Portugal's  public  enterprises.  Before  the  Revolution  of  1974,  pri- 
vate enterprise  ownership  dominated  the  Portuguese  economy  to  a 
degree  unmatched  in  other  West  European  countries;  in  1982  the 
relative  size  of  Portugal's  public  enterprise  sector  (based  on  an  aver- 
age of  value  added,  employment,  and  gross  capital  formation)  sub- 
stantially exceeded  that  of  the  other  West  European  economies. 

The  dispossession  of  the  family-based  financial-industrial  groups, 
together  with  the  " antifascist"  purges  of  the  mid-1970s,  inflicted 
a  serious  "brain  drain"  on  Portugal  through  the  exile  of  entrepre- 
neurs and  professional  managers.  Recent  Portuguese  governments 
have  recognized  the  highly  politicized  public  enterprise  sector  as  a 
major  obstacle  to  the  resolution  of  macroeconomic  problems,  such 
as  large  fiscal  deficits,  inflation,  and  burdensome  external  debt. 

Portugal's  commodity  trade  increasingly  has  become  dominat- 
ed by  the  EC ,  and  since  the  accession  of  both  Iberian  countries 
to  the  organization  in  1986,  Spain  has  suddenly  emerged  as  a  sig- 
nificant trading  partner  for  Portugal.  The  latter' s  major  commodity 
exports  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s  included  textiles,  clothing 
and  footwear,  machinery  and  transport  equipment,  forest  products 
(including  pulp  and  paper  and  cork  products),  and  agricultural 
products  (mainly  wine).  With  the  rising  participation  of  multi- 
national firms,  Portugal  also  is  gaining  competitive  strength  in  the 
export  of  higher  technology  automotive  and  electronic  components 
and  parts. 

Privatization,  economic  deregulation,  debt  reduction,  and  supply- 
side  tax  reform  became  the  salient  concerns  of  government  as 


116 


The  Economy 


Portugal  prepared  itself  for  the  challenges  and  opportunities  of  full 
participation  in  the  EC's  single  market  in  the  1990s.  These  market- 
driven  policies  deserved  much  of  the  credit  for  Portugal's  economic 
resurgence.  Led  by  expanding  exports  and  robust  capital  forma- 
tion, Portugal's  GDP  grew  by  an  annual  rate  of  4.6  percent  from 
1986  to  1990.  During  this  five-year  period,  only  Japan  among  the 
Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development  (OECD — 
see  Glossary)  countries  exceeded  Portugal's  economic  performance. 

Economic  Growth  and  Structural  Change 

Portugal's  First  Republic  (1910-26)  became,  in  the  words  of 
historian  Douglas  L.  Wheeler,  "midwife  to  Europe's  longest  sur- 
viving authoritarian  system."  Under  the  sixteen-year  parliamen- 
tary regime  of  the  republic  with  its  forty-five  governments,  growing 
fiscal  deficits  financed  by  money  creation  and  foreign  borrowing 
climaxed  in  hyper-inflation  and  a  moratorium  on  Portugal's  ex- 
ternal debt  service.  The  cost  of  living  around  1926  was  thirty  times 
what  it  had  been  in  1914.  Fiscal  imprudence  and  accelerating  in- 
flation gave  way  to  massive  capital  flight,  crippling  domestic  in- 
vestment. Burgeoning  public-sector  employment  during  the  First 
Republic  was  accompanied  by  a  perverse  shrinkage  in  the  share 
of  the  industrial  labor  force  in  total  employment.  Although  some 
headway  was  made  toward  increasing  the  level  of  literacy  under 
the  parliamentary  regime,  68.1  percent  of  Portugal's  population 
was  still  classified  as  illiterate  by  the  1930  census. 

The  Economy  of  the  Salazar  Regime 

The  First  Republic  was  ended  by  a  military  coup  in  May  1926, 
but  the  newly  installed  government  failed  to  solve  the  nation's 
precarious  financial  situation.  Instead,  President  Oscar  Fragoso 
Carmona  invited  Antonio  de  Oliveira  Salazar  to  head  the  Minis- 
try of  Finance,  and  the  latter  agreed  to  accept  the  position  provid- 
ed he  would  have  veto  power  over  all  fiscal  expenditures.  At  the 
time  of  his  appointment  as  minister  of  finance  in  1928,  Salazar 
held  the  Chair  of  Economics  at  the  University  of  Coimbra  and  was 
considered  by  his  peers  to  be  Portugal's  most  distinguished  authority 
on  inflation.  For  forty  years,  first  as  minister  of  finance  (1928-32) 
and  then  as  prime  minister  (1932-68),  Salazar' s  political  and  eco- 
nomic doctrines  were  to  shape  the  Portuguese  destiny  (see  The  New 
State,  ch.  1). 

From  the  perspective  of  the  financial  chaos  of  the  republican  peri- 
od, it  was  not  surprising  that  Salazar  considered  the  principles  of 
a  balanced  budget  and  monetary  stability  as  categorical  impera- 
tives. By  restoring  equilibrium  both  in  the  fiscal  budget  and  in  the 


117 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


balance  of  international  payments,  Salazar  succeeded  in  restoring 
Portugal's  credit  worthiness  at  home  and  abroad.  Because  Portu- 
gal's fiscal  accounts  from  the  1930s  until  the  early  1960s  almost 
always  had  a  surplus  in  the  current  account,  the  state  had  the  where- 
withal to  finance  public  infrastructure  projects  without  resorting 
either  to  inflationary  financing  or  to  borrowing  abroad. 

At  the  height  of  the  Great  Depression,  Premier  Salazar  laid  the 
foundations  for  his  Estado  Novo,  the  "New  State."  Neither  capi- 
talist nor  communist,  Portugal's  economy  was  cast  into  a  quasi- 
traditional  mold.  The  corporative  framework  within  which  the 
Portuguese  economy  evolved  combined  two  salient  characteristics: 
extensive  state  regulation  and  predominantly  private  ownership  of 
the  means  of  production.  Leading  financiers  and  industrialists 
accepted  extensive  bureaucratic  controls  in  return  for  assurances 
of  minimal  public  ownership  of  economic  enterprises  and  certain 
monopolistic  (or  restricted-competition)  privileges. 

Within  this  framework,  the  state  exercised  extensive  de  facto 
authority  regarding  private  investment  decisions  and  the  level  of 
wages.  A  system  of  industrial  licensing  (condicionamento  industrial), 
introduced  by  law  in  1931,  required  prior  authorization  from  the 
state  for  setting  up  or  relocating  an  industrial  plant.  Investment 
in  machinery  and  equipment  designed  to  increase  the  capacity  of 
an  existing  firm  also  required  government  approval.  Although  the 
political  system  was  ostensibly  corporatist,  as  political  scientist 
Howard  J.  Wiarda  makes  clear,  "In  reality  both  labor  and 
capital — and  indeed  the  entire  corporate  institutional  network — 
were  subordinate  to  the  central  state  apparatus." 

Under  the  old  regime,  Portugal's  private  sector  was  dominated 
by  some  forty  great  families.  These  industrial  dynasties  were  al- 
lied by  marriage  with  the  large,  traditional  landowning  families 
of  the  nobility,  who  held  most  of  the  arable  land  in  the  southern 
part  of  the  country  in  great  estates.  Many  of  these  dynasties  had 
business  interests  in  Portuguese  Africa.  Within  this  elite  group, 
the  top  ten  families  owned  all  the  important  commercial  banks, 
which  in  turn  controlled  a  disproportionate  share  of  the  national 
economy.  Because  bank  officials  were  often  members  of  the  boards 
of  directors  of  borrowing  firms  in  whose  stock  the  banks  partici- 
pated, the  influence  of  the  large  banks  extended  to  a  host  of  com- 
mercial, industrial,  and  service  enterprises. 

Portugal's  shift  toward  a  moderately  outward-looking  trade  and 
financial  strategy,  initiated  in  the  late  1950s,  gained  momentum 
during  the  early  1960s.  A  growing  number  of  industrialists,  as  well 
as  government  technocrats,  favored  greater  Portuguese  integration 
with  the  industrial  countries  to  the  north  as  a  badly  needed  stimulus 


118 


The  Economy 


to  Portugal's  economy.  The  rising  influence  of  the  Europe-oriented 
technocrats  within  Salazar's  cabinet  was  confirmed  by  the  substan- 
tial increase  in  the  foreign  investment  component  in  projected  cap- 
ital formation  between  the  first  (1953-58)  and  second  (1959-64) 
economic  development  plans.  The  first  plan  called  for  a  foreign 
investment  component  of  less  than  6  percent,  but  the  plan  for  the 
1959-64  period  envisioned  a  25-percent  contribution.  The  newly 
influential  Europe-oriented  industrial  and  technical  groups  persuad- 
ed Salazar  that  Portugal  should  become  a  charter  member  of  the 
European  Free  Trade  Association  (EFTA)  when  it  was  organized 
in  1959.  In  the  following  year,  Portugal  also  added  its  member- 
ship in  the  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade  (GATT),  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary),  and  the  World 
Bank. 

In  1958  when  the  Portuguese  government  announced  the 
1959-64  Six-Year  Plan  for  National  Development,  a  decision  had 
been  reached  to  accelerate  the  country's  rate  of  economic  growth — a 
decision  whose  urgency  grew  with  the  outbreak  of  guerrilla  warfare 
in  Angola  in  1961  and  in  Portugal's  other  African  territories  there- 
after. Salazar  and  his  policy  advisers  recognized  that  additional 
claims  by  the  state  on  national  output  for  military  expenditures, 
as  well  as  for  increased  transfers  of  official  investment  to  the  "over- 
seas provinces,"  could  only  be  met  by  a  sharp  rise  in  the  coun- 
try's productive  capacity.  Salazar's  commitment  to  preserving 
Portugal's  "multiracial,  pluricontinental"  state  led  him  reluctantly 
to  seek  external  credits  beginning  in  1962,  an  action  from  which 
the  Portuguese  treasury  had  abstained  for  several  decades. 

Beyond  military  measures,  the  official  Portuguese  response  to 
the  "winds  of  change"  in  the  African  colonies  was  to  integrate  them 
administratively  and  economically  more  closely  with  Portugal 
through  population  and  capital  transfers,  trade  liberalization,  and 
the  creation  of  a  common  currency — the  so-called  Escudo  Area. 
The  integration  program  established  in  1961  provided  for  the 
removal  of  Portugal's  duties  on  imports  from  its  overseas  territo- 
ries by  January  1964.  The  latter,  on  the  other  hand,  were  permit- 
ted to  continue  to  levy  duties  on  goods  imported  from  Portugal 
but  at  a  preferential  rate,  in  most  cases  50  percent  of  the  normal 
duties  levied  by  the  territories  on  goods  originating  outside  the  Es- 
cudo Area.  The  effect  of  this  two- tier  tariff  system  was  to  give  Por- 
tugal's exports  preferential  access  to  its  colonial  markets. 

Despite  the  opposition  of  protectionist  interests,  the  Portuguese 
government  succeeded  in  bringing  about  some  liberalization  of  the 
industrial  licensing  system,  as  well  as  in  reducing  trade  barriers 
to  conform  with  EFTA  and  GATT  agreements.  The  last  years  of 


119 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

the  Salazar  era  witnessed  the  creation  of  important  privately  or- 
ganized ventures,  including  an  integrated  iron  and  steel  mill,  a 
modern  ship  repair  and  shipbuilding  complex,  vehicle  assembly 
plants,  oil  refineries,  petrochemical  plants,  pulp  and  paper  mills, 
and  electronic  plants.  As  economist  Valentina  Xavier  Pintado  ob- 
served, ''Behind  the  facade  of  an  aged  Salazar,  Portugal  knew  deep 
and  lasting  changes  during  the  1960s." 

The  liberalization  of  the  Portuguese  economy  continued  under 
Salazar' s  successor,  Prime  Minister  Marcello  Jose  das  Neves 
Caetano  (1968-74),  whose  administration  abolished  industrial 
licensing  requirements  for  firms  in  most  sectors  and  in  1972  signed 
a  free-trade  agreement  with  the  newly  enlarged  EC.  Under  the 
agreement,  which  took  effect  at  the  beginning  of  1973,  Portugal 
was  given  until  1980  to  abolish  its  restrictions  on  most  community 
goods  and  until  1985  on  certain  sensitive  products  amounting  to 
some  10  percent  of  the  EC's  total  exports  to  Portugal.  EFTA  mem- 
bership and  a  growing  foreign  investor  presence  contributed  to  Por- 
tugal's industrial  modernization  and  export  diversification  between 
1960  and  1973. 

Notwithstanding  the  concentration  of  the  means  of  production 
in  the  hands  of  a  small  number  of  family  based  financial-industrial 
groups,  Portuguese  business  culture  permitted  a  surprising  upward 
mobility  of  university-educated  individuals  with  middle-class  back- 
grounds into  professional  management  careers.  Before  the  revo- 
lution, the  largest,  most  technologically  advanced  (and  most  recently 
organized)  firms  offered  the  greatest  opportunity  for  management 
careers  based  on  merit  rather  than  on  accident  of  birth. 

Changing  Structure  of  the  Economy 

The  Portuguese  economy  had  changed  significantly  by  1973, 
compared  with  its  position  in  1961.  Total  output  (GDP  at  factor 
cost)  grew  by  120  percent  in  real  terms.  The  industrial  sector  was 
three  times  greater,  and  the  size  of  the  services  sector  doubled;  but 
agriculture,  forestry,  and  fishing  advanced  by  only  16  percent. 
Manufacturing,  the  major  component  of  the  secondary  sector,  was 
three  times  as  large  at  the  end  of  the  period.  Industrial  expansion 
was  concentrated  in  large-scale  enterprises  using  modern  tech- 
nology. 

The  composition  of  GDP  also  changed  markedly  from  1961  to 
1973.  The  share  of  the  primary  sector  (agriculture,  forestry,  and 
fishing)  in  GDP  shrank  from  23  percent  in  1961  to  16.8  percent 
in  1973,  and  the  contribution  of  the  secondary  (or  industrial)  sec- 
tor (manufacturing,  construction,  mining,  and  electricity,  gas  and 
water)  increased  from  37  percent  to  44  percent  during  the  period. 


120 


The  Economy 


The  services  sector's  share  in  GDP  remained  constant  at  39.4  per- 
cent between  1961  and  1973.  Within  the  industrial  sector,  the  con- 
tribution of  manufacturing  advanced  from  30  percent  to  35  percent 
and  that  of  construction  from  4.6  percent  to  6.4  percent. 

The  progressive  "opening"  of  Portugal  to  the  world  economy 
was  reflected  in  the  growing  shares  of  exports  and  imports  (both 
visible  and  invisible)  in  national  output  and  income.  Further,  the 
composition  of  Portugal's  balance  of  international  payments  altered 
substantially.  From  1960  to  1973,  the  merchandise  trade  deficit 
widened,  but  owing  to  a  growing  surplus  on  invisibles — including 
tourist  receipts  and  emigrant  worker  remittances — the  deficit  in 
the  current  account  gave  way  to  a  surplus  from  1965  onward.  Be- 
ginning with  that  year,  the  long-term  capital  account  typically 
registered  a  deficit,  the  counterpart  of  the  current  account  surplus. 
Even  though  the  nation  attracted  a  rising  level  of  capital  from  abroad 
(both  direct  investments  and  loans),  official  and  private  Portuguese 
investments  in  the  "overseas  territories"  were  greater  still — hence 
the  net  outflow  on  the  long-term  capital  account. 

The  growth  rate  of  Portuguese  merchandise  exports  during  the 
period  1959  to  1973  was  11  percent  per  annum.  In  1960  the  bulk 
of  exports  was  accounted  for  by  a  few  products — canned  fish,  raw 
and  manufactured  cork,  cotton  textiles,  and  wine.  By  contrast,  in 
the  early  1970s,  Portugal's  export  list  reflected  significant  product 
diversification,  including  both  consumer  and  capital  goods.  Several 
branches  of  Portuguese  industry  became  export-oriented,  and  in 
1973  over  one-fifth  of  Portuguese  manufactured  output  was  ex- 
ported. 

The  radical  nationalization-expropriation  measures  in  the 
mid-1970s  were  initially  accompanied  by  a  policy-induced  redis- 
tribution of  national  income  from  property  owners,  entrepreneurs, 
and  private  managers  and  professionals  to  industrial  and  agricul- 
tural workers.  This  wage  explosion  favoring  workers  with  a  high 
propensity  to  consume  had  a  dramatic  impact  on  the  nation's  eco- 
nomic growth  and  pattern  of  expenditures.  Private  and  public  con- 
sumption combined  rose  from  81  percent  of  domestic  expenditure 
in  1973  to  nearly  102  percent  in  1975.  The  counterpart  of  over- 
consumption  in  the  face  of  declining  national  output  was  a  con- 
traction in  both  savings  and  fixed  capital  formation,  depletion  of 
stocks,  and  a  huge  balance-of-payments  deficit.  The  rapid  increase 
in  production  costs  associated  with  the  surge  in  unit  labor  costs 
between  1973  and  1975  contributed  significantly  to  the  decline  in 
Portugal's  ability  to  compete  in  foreign  markets.  Real  exports  fell 
between  1973  and  1976,  and  their  share  in  total  expenditures 
declined  from  nearly  26  percent  to  16.5  percent. 


121 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

The  economic  dislocations  of  metropolitan  Portugal  associated 
with  the  income  leveling  and  nationalization-expropriation  mea- 
sures were  exacerbated  by  the  sudden  loss  of  the  nation's  African 
colonies  in  1974  and  1975  and  the  reabsorption  of  overseas  set- 
tlers (the  so-called  retornados),  the  global  recession,  and,  as  well, 
the  international  energy  crisis. 

Over  the  longer  period,  1973-90,  the  composition  of  Portugal's 
GDP  at  factor  cost  changed  significantly.  The  contribution  of 
agriculture,  forestry,  and  fishing  as  a  share  of  total  production  con- 
tinued its  inexorable  decline,  to  6.1  percent  in  1990  from  12.2  per- 
cent in  1973.  In  contrast  to  the  prerevolutionary  period,  1961-73, 
when  the  industrial  sector  grew  by  9  percent  annually  and  its  con- 
tribution to  GDP  expanded,  industry's  share  narrowed  to  38.4  per- 
cent of  GDP  in  1990  from  44  percent  in  1973.  Manufacturing,  the 
major  component  of  the  industrial  sector,  contributed  relatively 
less  to  GDP  in  1990  (28  percent)  than  in  1973  (35  percent).  Most 
striking  was  the  16-percentage-point  increase  in  the  participation 
of  the  services  sector  from  39  percent  of  GDP  in  1973  to  55.5  per- 
cent in  1990.  Most  of  this  growth  reflected  the  proliferation  of  civil 
service  employment  and  the  associated  cost  of  public  administra- 
tion, together  with  the  dynamic  contribution  of  tourism  services 
during  the  1980s. 

Economic  Growth,  1960-73  and  1981-90 

There  was  a  striking  contrast  between  the  economic  growth  and 
levels  of  capital  formation  in  the  1960-73  period  and  in  the  1980s 
decade  (see  table  4,  Appendix).  Clearly,  the  pre-revolutionary  peri- 
od was  characterized  by  robust  annual  growth  rates  for  GDP  (6.9 
percent),  industrial  production  (9  percent),  private  consumption 
(6.5  percent),  and  gross  fixed  capital  formation  (7.8  percent).  By 
way  of  contrast,  the  1980s  exhibited  a  pattern  of  slow-to-moderate 
annual  growth  rates  for  GDP  (2.7  percent),  industrial  production 
(4.8  percent),  private  consumption  (2.7  percent),  and  fixed  capital 
formation  (3.1  percent).  As  a  result  of  worker  emigration  and  the 
military  draft,  employment  declined  during  the  earlier  period  by  a 
half  percent  annually,  but  increased  by  1.4  percent  annually  during 
the  1980s.  Significandy,  labor  productivity  (GDP  growth/employ- 
ment  growth)  grew  by  a  sluggish  rate  of  1.3  percent  annually  in 
the  recent  period  compared  with  the  extremely  rapid  annual  growth 
rate  of  7.4  percent  earlier.  Inflation,  as  measured  by  the  GDP  defla- 
tor, averaged  a  modest  4  percent  a  year  before  the  revolution  com- 
pared with  nearly  18  percent  annually  during  the  1980s. 

Although  the  investment  coefficients  were  roughly  similar  (24 
percent  of  GDP  allocated  to  fixed  capital  formation  in  the  earlier 


122 


The  Bridge  of  April  25,  Lisbon 
Courtesy  General  Directorate  of  Mass  Communication,  Lisbon 


period;  26.7  percent  during  the  1980s),  the  overall  investment 
productivity  or  efficiency  (GDP  growth  rate/investment  coefficient) 
was  nearly  three  times  greater  (28.6  percent)  before  the  revolu- 
tion than  in  the  1980s  (10.1  percent). 

How  did  Portugal's  per  capita  GDP  compare  with  the  average 
of  the  twelve  members  of  the  EC,  the  European  Twelve  (EC- 12), 
during  the  past  three  decades?  In  1960,  at  the  initiation  of  Sala- 
zar's  more  outward-looking  economic  policy,  Portugal's  per  capi- 
ta GDP  was  only  38  percent  of  the  EC- 12  average;  by  the  end  of 
the  Salazar  period,  in  1968,  it  had  risen  to  48  percent;  and  in  1973, 
on  the  eve  of  the  revolution,  Portugal's  per  capita  GDP  had  reached 
56.4  percent  of  the  EC- 12  average.  In  1975,  the  year  of  maximum 
revolutionary  turmoil,  Portugal's  per  capita  GDP  declined  to  52.3 
percent  of  the  EC- 12  average. 

Convergence  of  real  GDP  growth  toward  the  EC  average  oc- 
curred as  a  result  of  Portugal's  economic  resurgence  since  1985. 
In  1991  Portugal's  per  capita  GDP  climbed  to  54.9  percent  of  the 
EC  average,  gradually  approaching  the  level  attained  just  before 
the  Revolution  of  1974. 

Revolutionary  Change 

The  military  coup  of  April  1974,  which  ousted  the  long-lived 


123 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

authoritarian  Salazar-Caetano  regime,  was  rapidly  transformed  into 
a  social  revolution  that  profoundly  recast  Portugal's  political  and 
economic  systems  (see  Spmola  and  Revolution,  ch.  4).  The  revolu- 
tionary leadership  undercut  the  old  elite's  economic  base  by  na- 
tionalizing the  banks  and  most  of  the  country's  heavy  and 
medium-sized  industries;  expropriating  landed  estates  in  the  cen- 
tral and  southern  regions;  and  giving  independence  to  Angola, 
Mozambique,  and  other  colonies.  The  last  action  dismantled  the 
web  of  economic  relationships,  known  as  the  Escudo  Area,  through 
which  metropolitan  Portugal  was  linked  to  its  "overseas  provinces." 

In  the  brief  period  between  the  collapse  of  the  old  regime  in  April 
1974  and  the  abortive  leftist  coup  of  November  1975,  a  variety  of 
economic  models  were  proposed  for  Portugal  by  the  provisional 
Armed  Forces  Movement  (Movimento  das  Forcas  Armadas — 
MFA)  governments,  including  the  West  European,  Yugoslav,  and 
Albanian  models.  In  the  early  months  following  the  military  coup, 
the  new  Portuguese  government's  economic  orientation  could  be 
described  as  moderate- reformist.  The  regime's  Economic  and  So- 
cial Program  published  on  May  15,  1974,  made  no  provision  for 
large-scale  nationalization  of  industry  or  agriculture.  The  program 
simply  provided  for  the  "adoption  of  new  measures  of  government 
intervention  in  the  basic  sectors  of  the  economy  and  particularly 
in  the  sectors  of  national  interest,  without  prejudice  to  the  legiti- 
mate interest  of  private  enterprise";  argued  for  "reform  of  the  tax 
system  so  as  to  rationalize  it  and  ease  the  tax  burden  on  less  well- 
off  groups,  with  a  view  of  a  fairer  distribution  of  income";  recom- 
mended measures  "to  stimulate  agriculture  and  gradually  reform 
the  land  tenure  system";  and,  within  the  sphere  of  social  policy, 
favored  introduction  of  "a  minimum  wage  to  be  progressively  ex- 
tended to  all  sectors  of  activity." 

The  initial  moderate-reformist  policies  reflected  the  views  of 
General  Antonio  de  Spmola,  who  was  chosen  by  the  MFA  to  lead 
the  coup  and  to  serve  as  the  country's  president.  Spmola,  the 
celebrated  war  hero,  favored  the  establishment  of  civil  liberties  and 
the  creation  of  democratic  institutions.  He  also  advocated  rapid 
improvement  of  living  standards,  a  modernized  financial  structure, 
and  eventual  Portuguese  participation  in  the  EC — objectives  laid 
down  in  an  economic  plan  he  commissioned  from  Erik  Lundberg 
of  the  World  Bank.  Spmola' s  view  on  the  economy  and  the  pace 
of  decolonization  diverged  from  those  of  the  Coordinating  Com- 
mittee of  the  MFA,  most  of  whose  members  were  prepared  to  end 
completely  the  Portuguese  presence  in  Africa  and  to  expand  sub- 
stantially the  scope  of  the  public  sector.  By  the  early  autumn  of 
1974,  events  both  within  and  outside  Portugal  favored  the  course 


124 


The  Economy 


chosen  by  the  MFA  coordinating  committee.  Unable  to  stop  the 
leftward  drift  of  the  country,  Spmola  resigned  in  September  1974. 

Nationalization 

The  reorganization  of  the  MFA  coordinating  committee  in  March 
1975  brought  into  prominence  a  group  of  Marxist-oriented  officers 
who,  in  league  with  the  General  Confederation  of  Portuguese 
Workers-National  Intersindical  (Confederagao  Geral  dos  Tra- 
balhadores  Portugueses-Intersindical  Nacional — CGTP-IN),  the 
communist-dominated  trade  union  confederation  known  as  Inter- 
sindical prior  to  1977,  sought  the  radical  transformation  of  the 
nation's  social  system  and  political  economy.  Abandoning  its 
moderate-reformist  posture,  the  MFA  leadership  set  out  on  a  course 
of  sweeping  nationalizations  and  land  expropriations.  During  the 
balance  of  that  year,  the  government  nationalized  all  Portuguese- 
owned  capital  in  the  banking,  insurance,  petrochemical,  fertilizer, 
tobacco,  cement,  and  wood  pulp  sectors  of  the  economy,  as  well 
as  the  Portuguese  iron  and  steel  company,  the  major  breweries, 
the  large  shipping  lines,  most  public  transport,  two  of  the  three 
principal  shipyards,  core  companies  of  the  Companhia  Uniao  Fabril 
(CUF)  conglomerate,  the  radio  and  TV  networks  (except  that  of 
the  Roman  Catholic  Church),  and  important  companies  in  the 
glass,  mining,  fishing,  and  agricultural  sectors.  Because  of  the  key 
role  of  the  domestic  banks  as  holders  of  stock,  the  government 
indirectly  acquired  equity  positions  in  hundreds  of  other  firms.  An 
Institute  for  State  Participation  was  created  to  deal  with  the  many 
disparate  (often  tiny)  enterprises  in  which  the  state  had  thus  ob- 
tained a  majority  shareholding.  Another  300  small  to  medium 
enterprises  came  under  public  management  as  the  government  "in- 
tervened' '  to  rescue  them  from  bankruptcy  following  their  takeover 
by  workers  or  abandonment  by  management. 

Although  foreign  direct  investment  was  statutorily  exempted  from 
nationalization,  many  foreign-controlled  enterprises  curtailed  or 
ceased  operation  because  of  costly  forced  labor  settiements  or  worker 
takeovers.  The  combination  of  revolutionary  policies  and  negative 
business  climate  brought  about  a  sharp  reversal  in  the  trend  of  direct 
investment  inflows  from  abroad. 

A  study  by  the  economists  Maria  Belmira  Martins  and  Jose 
Chaves  Rosa  showed  that  a  total  of  244  private  enterprises  were 
directly  nationalized  during  the  sixteen-month  interval  from  March 
14,  1975  to  July  29,  1976.  Nationalization  was  followed  by  the  con- 
solidation of  the  several  private  firms  in  each  industry  into  state 
monopolies.  As  an  example,  Quimigal,  the  chemical  and  fertilizer 
entity,  represented  a  merger  of  five  firms.  Four  large  companies 


125 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

were  integrated  to  form  the  national  oil  company,  Petroleos  de  Por- 
tugal (Petrogal).  Portucel  brought  together  five  pulp  and  paper  com- 
panies. The  fourteen  private  electric  power  enterprises  were  joined 
into  a  single  power  generation  and  transmission  monopoly,  Elec- 
tricidade  de  Portugal  (EDP).  With  the  nationalization  and  amal- 
gamation of  the  three  tobacco  firms  under  Tabaqueira,  the  state 
gained  complete  control  of  this  industry.  The  several  breweries  and 
beer  distribution  companies  were  integrated  into  two  state  firms, 
Central  de  Cervejas  (Centralcer)  and  Unicer;  and  a  single  state 
enterprise,  Rodoviaria,  was  created  by  joining  the  ninety-three  na- 
tionalized trucking  and  bus  lines.  The  forty-seven  cement  plants, 
formerly  controlled  by  the  Champalimaud  interests,  were  integrated 
into  Cimentos  de  Portugal  (Cimpor).  The  government  also  acquired 
a  dominant  position  in  the  export-oriented  shipbuilding  and  ship 
repair  industry.  Former  private  monopolies  retained  their  compa- 
ny designations  following  nationalization.  Included  among  these 
were  the  iron  and  steel  company,  Siderurgia  Nacional;  the  rail- 
way, Caminhos  de  Ferro  Portugueses  (CP);  and  the  national  airline, 
Transportes  Aereos  Portugueses  (TAP). 

Unlike  other  sectors,  where  existing  private  firms  were  typical- 
ly consolidated  into  state  monopolies,  the  commercial  banking  sys- 
tem and  insurance  industry  were  left  with  a  degree  of  competition. 
By  1979  the  number  of  domestic  commercial  banks  was  reduced 
from  fifteen  to  nine.  Notwithstanding  their  public  status,  the  re- 
maining banks  competed  with  each  other  and  retained  their  in- 
dividual identities  and  certain  differences  in  their  activities. 

Before  the  revolution,  private  enterprise  ownership  dominated 
the  Portuguese  economy  to  a  degree  unmatched  in  other  West  Eu- 
ropean countries.  Only  a  handful  of  wholly  owned  or  majority 
owned  state  entities  existed;  these  included  the  post  office,  the  ar- 
maments industry,  and  the  ports,  as  well  as  the  National  Develop- 
ment Bank  and  Caixa  Geral  de  Depositos,  the  largest  savings  bank. 
The  Portuguese  government  held  minority  interests  in  TAP,  the 
national  airline;  in  Siderurgia  Nacional,  the  integrated  steel  mill; 
and  in  oil  refining  and  oil  marketing  firms.  The  railroads,  two 
colonial  banks,  and  the  Bank  of  Portugal  were  majority  privately 
owned  but  publicly  administered.  Finally,  although  privately 
owned,  the  tobacco  companies  and  Radio  Marconi  were  operated 
under  government  concessions. 

Two  years  after  the  military  coup,  the  enlarged  public  sector  ac- 
counted for  47  percent  of  the  country's  gross  fixed  capital  forma- 
tion (GFCF),  30  percent  of  total  value  added  (VA),  and  24  percent 
of  employment.  These  shares  should  be  compared  with  10  percent 
of  GFCF,  9  percent  of  VA,  and  13  percent  of  employment  for  the 


126 


The  Economy 


traditional  public  sector  of  1973.  Expansion  of  the  public  sector 
since  the  revolution  was  particularly  noteworthy  in  heavy  manufac- 
turing; in  public  services,  including  electricity,  gas,  transport  and 
communications;  and  in  banking  and  insurance.  Further,  accord- 
ing to  the  Institute  for  State  Participation,  these  figures  did  not 
include  private  enterprises  under  temporary  state  intervention,  pri- 
vate enterprises  with  minority  state  participation  (less  than  50  per- 
cent of  the  common  stock),  or  worker-managed  firms  and 
agricultural  collectives. 

The  Brain  Drain 

Compounding  the  problem  of  massive  nationalizations  was  the 
heavy  drain  of  managerial  and  technical  expertise  away  from  the 
public  enterprises.  The  income-leveling  measures  of  the  MFA 
revolutionary  regime,  together  with  the  " antifascist"  purges  in  fac- 
tories, offices,  and  large  agricultural  estates,  induced  an  exodus 
of  human  capital,  mainly  to  Brazil.  This  loss  of  managers,  techni- 
cians, and  business  people  inspired  a  popular  Lisbon  saying,  "Por- 
tugal used  to  send  its  legs  to  Brazil,  but  now  we  are  sending  our 
heads." 

Notwithstanding  the  concentration  of  the  means  of  production 
in  the  hands  of  a  small  number  of  family-based  financial-industrial 
groups,  Portuguese  business  culture  permitted  a  surprising  upward 
mobility  of  educated  individuals  with  middle-class  backgrounds  into 
professional  management  careers.  Before  the  Revolution  of  1974, 
the  largest,  most  technologically  advanced  (and  most  recently  or- 
ganized) firms  offered  the  greatest  opportunity  for  management 
careers  based  on  merit. 

A  detailed  analysis  of  Portugal's  loss  of  managerial  resources  is 
contained  in  Harry  M.  Makler's  follow-up  surveys  of  306  enter- 
prises, conducted  in  July  1976,  and  again  in  June  1977.  His  study 
makes  clear  that  nationalization  was  greater  in  the  modern,  large, 
technically  advanced  industries  than  in  the  traditional  industries 
such  as  textiles,  apparel,  and  construction.  In  small  enterprises  (fifty 
to  ninety-nine  employees),  only  15  percent  of  the  industrialists  had 
quit  as  compared  with  43  percent  in  the  larger.  In  the  giant  firms 
(1 ,000  or  more  employees),  more  than  half  had  quit.  Makler's  cal- 
culations show  that  the  higher  the  socioeconomic  class  origin,  the 
greater  the  likelihood  that  the  industrialist  had  left  the  firm.  He 
also  notes  that  "the  more  upwardly  mobile  also  were  more  likely 
to  have  quit  than  those  who  were  downwardly  socially  mobile." 
Significantly,  a  much  larger  percentage  of  professional  mana- 
gers (52  percent)  compared  with  owners  of  production  (i.e., 


127 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

founders — 18  percent,  heirs — 21  percent,  and  owner-managers — 32 
percent)  had  left  their  enterprises. 

The  constitution  of  1976  confirmed  the  large  and  interventionist 
role  of  the  state  in  the  economy.  Its  Marxist  character  before  the 
1989  revisions  was  revealed  in  a  number  of  its  articles,  which  point- 
ed to  a  "classless  society"  and  the  "socialization  of  the  means  of 
production"  and  proclaimed  all  nationalizations  made  after  April 
25,  1974,  as  "irreversible  conquests  of  the  working  classes."  The 
constitution  also  defined  new  power  relationships  between  labor 
and  management,  with  a  strong  bias  in  labor's  favor.  All  regula- 
tions with  reference  to  layoffs,  including  collective  redundancy,  were 
circumscribed  by  Article  53. 

Role  of  the  Consolidated  Public  Sector 

After  the  revolution,  the  Portuguese  economy  experienced  a 
rapid,  and  often  uncontrollable,  expansion  of  public  expenditures — 
both  in  the  general  government  and  in  public  enterprises.  The  lag 
in  public- sector  receipts  resulted  in  large  public  enterprise  and 
general  government  deficits.  In  1982  the  borrowing  requirement 
of  the  consolidated  public  sector  reached  24  percent  of  GDP,  its 
peak  level;  it  was  subsequendy  reduced  to  9  percent  of  GDP  in  1990. 

To  rein  in  domestic  demand  growth,  the  Portuguese  government 
was  obliged  to  pursue  IMF-monitored  stabilization  programs  in 
1977-78  and  1983-85.  The  large  negative  savings  of  the  public  sec- 
tor (including  the  state-owned  enterprises)  became  a  structural  fea- 
ture of  Portugal's  political  economy  after  the  revolution.  Other 
official  impediments  to  rapid  economic  growth  after  1974  includ- 
ed all-pervasive  price  regulation,  as  well  as  heavy-handed  inter- 
vention in  factor  markets  and  the  distribution  of  income. 

In  1989  Prime  Minister  Anibal  Cavaco  Silva  succeeded  in 
mobilizing  the  required  two-thirds  vote  in  the  Assembly  of  the 
Republic  to  amend  the  constitution,  thereby  permitting  the  dena- 
tionalization of  the  state-owned  banks  and  other  public  enterprises. 
Privatization,  economic  deregulation,  and  tax  reform  became  the 
salient  concerns  of  public  policy  as  Portugal  prepared  itself  for  the 
challenges  and  opportunities  of  membership  in  the  EC's  single  mar- 
ket in  the  1990s. 

The  Nonfinancial  Public  Enterprises 

Following  the  sweeping  nationalizations  of  the  mid-1970s,  pub- 
lic enterprises  became  a  major  component  of  Portugal's  consoli- 
dated public  sector.  Portugal's  nationalized  sector  in  1980  included 
a  core  of  fifty  nonfinancial  enterprises,  entirely  government  owned. 
This  so-called  public  nonfinancial  enterprise  group  included  the 


128 


The  Economy 


Institute  of  State  Participation,  a  holding  company  with  investments 
in  some  seventy  subsidiary  enterprises;  a  number  of  state-owned 
entities  manufacturing  or  selling  goods  and  services  grouped  with 
nationalized  enterprises  for  national  accounts  purposes  (arms, 
agriculture,  and  public  infrastructure,  such  as  ports);  and  a  large 
number  of  over  50-percent  state-owned  subsidiaries  operating  un- 
der private  law.  Altogether  these  public  enterprises  accounted  for 
25  percent  of  VA  in  GDP,  52  percent  of  GFCF,  and  12  percent 
of  Portugal's  total  employment.  In  terms  of  VA  and  GFCF,  the 
relative  scale  of  Portugal's  public  entities  exceeded  that  of  the  other 
West  European  economies,  including  the  EC  member  countries. 

Although  the  nationalizations  broke  up  the  concentration  of  eco- 
nomic power  in  the  hands  of  the  financial-industrial  groups,  the 
subsequent  merger  of  several  private  firms  into  single  publicly 
owned  enterprises  left  domestic  markets  even  more  subject  to  mo- 
nopoly. Apart  from  special  cases,  as  in  iron  and  steel,  where  the 
economies  of  scale  are  optimal  for  very  large  firms,  there  was  some 
question  as  to  the  desirability  of  establishing  national  monopolies. 
The  elimination  of  competition  following  the  official  takeover  of 
such  industries  as  cement,  chemicals,  and  trucking  probably 
reduced  managerial  incentives  for  cost  reduction  and  technical 
advance. 

As  hybrid  institutions,  public  enterprises  find  it  difficult  to 
separate  market  choices  from  political  considerations.  Their  poor- 
er economic  performance  may  partially  be  explained  by  public 
management's  frustration  at  attempting  to  reconcile  impossible 
goals:  on  the  one  side,  a  concern  for  the  "bottom  line";  on  the 
other,  coping  with  the  distributional  struggles  of  interest  groups. 
Special  interest  groups  that  shape  the  policies  of  state-owned  firms 
include  "elite"  public  enterprise  unions  aspiring  to  guarantee  em- 
ployment and  above-market  wages;  consumer  groups  desiring  goods 
and  services  at  below  user  cost  or  market  price;  oversight  minis- 
tries intent  upon  expanding  their  authority;  and  politicians,  includ- 
ing chiefs  of  state,  seeking  to  expand  patronage  opportunities.  As 
a  vehicle  for  redistribution,  public  enterprise  often  becomes  the  ser- 
vant of  special  interest  groups — those  who  are  politically  con- 
nected— rather  than  a  guardian  of  the  public  or  general  interest. 

It  was  not  surprising  that  numerous  nationalized  enterprises  ex- 
perienced severe  operating  and  financial  difficulties.  State  opera- 
tions faced  considerable  uncertainty  as  to  the  goals  of  public 
enterprises,  with  negative  implications  for  decision  making,  often 
at  odds  with  market  criteria.  In  many  instances,  managers  of  public 
firms  were  less  able  than  their  private- sector  counterparts  to  resist 
strong  wage  demands  from  militant  unions.  Further,  public  firm 


129 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


managers  were  required  for  reasons  of  political  expediency  to  main- 
tain a  redundant  labor  force  and  freeze  prices  or  utility  rates  for 
long  periods  in  the  face  of  rising  costs.  Overstaffing  was  particu- 
larly flagrant  at  Petrogal,  the  national  petroleum  monopoly,  and 
Estaleiros  Navais  de  Setubal  (Setenave),  the  wholly  state-owned 
shipbuilding  and  repairing  enterprise.  The  failure  of  the  public 
transportation  firms  to  raise  fares  during  a  time  of  accelerating  in- 
flation resulted  in  substantial  operating  losses  and  even  obsoles- 
cence of  the  sector's  capital  stock. 

As  a  group,  the  public  enterprises  performed  poorly  financially 
and  relied  excessively  on  debt  financing  from  both  domestic  and 
foreign  commercial  banks.  The  operating  and  financial  problems 
of  the  public  enterprise  sector  were  revealed  in  a  study  by  the  Bank 
of  Portugal  covering  the  years  1978-80.  Based  upon  a  survey  of 
fifty-one  enterprises,  which  represented  92  percent  of  the  sector's 
VA,  the  analysis  confirmed  the  debilitated  financial  condition  of 
the  public  enterprises,  i.e.,  their  inadequate  equity  and  liquidity 
ratios.  The  consolidated  losses  of  the  firms  included  in  the  survey 
increased  from  18.3  million  contos  (for  value  of  the  conto — see  Glos- 
sary) in  1978  to  40.3  million  contos  in  1980,  or  4.6  percent  to  6.1 
percent  of  net  worth,  respectively.  Losses  were  concentrated  in 
transportation  and  to  a  lesser  extent  in  transport  equipment  and 
materials  (principally  shipbuilding  and  ship  repair).  The  bud- 
getary burden  of  the  public  enterprises  as  a  result  of  their  overall 
weak  performance  was  substantial:  enterprise  transfers  to  the  Por- 
tuguese government  (mainly  taxes)  fell  short  of  government  receipts 
in  the  forms  of  subsidies  and  capital  transfers.  The  largest  non- 
fmancial  state  enterprises  recorded  (inflation-discounted)  losses  in 
the  seven-year  period  from  1977  to  1983  equivalent  to  11  percent 
on  capital  employed.  Notwithstanding  their  substantial  operating 
losses  and  weak  capital  structure,  these  large  enterprises  financed 
86  percent  of  their  capital  investments  from  1977  to  1983  through 
increases  in  debt,  of  which  two- thirds  was  foreign.  The  rapid 
buildup  of  Portugal's  external  debt  from  1978  to  1985  was  largely 
associated  with  the  public  enterprises. 

The  General  Government 

The  share  of  general  government  expenditure  (including  capi- 
tal outlays)  in  GDP  rose  from  23  percent  in  1973  to  46  percent 
in  1990  (see  table  5,  Appendix).  On  the  revenue  side,  the  upward 
trend  was  less  pronounced:  the  share  increased  from  nearly  23  per- 
cent in  1973  to  39.2  percent  in  1990.  From  a  modest  surplus  be- 
fore the  revolution  in  1973,  the  government  balance  swung  to  a 
wide  deficit  of  12  percent  of  GDP  in  1984,  declining  thereafter  to 


130 


The  Economy 


around  5.4  percent  of  GDP  in  1990.  Significantly,  both  current 
expenditures  and  capital  expenditures  roughly  doubled  their  shares 
of  GDP  between  1973  and  1990:  government  current  outlays  rose 
from  19.5  percent  to  40.2  percent,  capital  outlays  from  3.2  per- 
cent to  5.7  percent. 

Apart  from  the  growing  investment  effort,  which  included  capi- 
tal transfers  to  the  public  enterprises,  government  expenditure  pat- 
terns since  the  revolution  reflected  rapid  expansion  in  the  number 
of  civil  servants  and  pressure  to  redistribute  income,  mainly  through 
current  transfers  and  subsidies,  as  well  as  burgeoning  interest  ob- 
ligations. The  category  "current  transfers"  nearly  tripled  its  share 
of  GDP  between  1973  and  1990,  from  under  5  percent  to  13.4  per- 
cent, reflecting  the  explosive  growth  of  the  social  security  system, 
both  with  respect  to  the  number  of  persons  covered  and  the  up- 
grading of  benefits.  Escalating  interest  payments  on  the  public  debt 
from  less  than  half  a  percent  of  GDP  in  1973  to  8.2  percent  of  GDP 
in  1990  were  the  result  of  both  a  rise  in  the  debt  itself  and  higher 
real  effective  interest  rates. 

The  narrowing  of  the  government  deficit  since  the  mid-1980s 
and  the  associated  easing  of  the  borrowing  requirement  was  caused 
both  by  a  small  increase  in  the  share  of  receipts  (by  two  percen- 
tage points)  and  by  the  relatively  sharper  contraction  of  current 
subsidies,  from  7.6  percent  of  GDP  in  1984  to  1.5  percent  of  GDP 
in  1990.  This  reduction  was  a  direct  consequence  of  the  gradual 
abandonment  by  the  government  of  its  policy  of  curbs  on  rises  in 
public  utility  rates  and  food  prices,  against  which  it  paid  subsidies 
to  public  enterprises. 

Tax  reform — comprising  both  direct  and  indirect  taxation — was 
a  major  element  in  a  more  comprehensive  effort  to  modernize  the 
economy  in  the  late  1980s.  The  key  objective  of  these  reforms  was 
to  promote  more  efficient  and  market-oriented  economic  perfor- 
mance. Beyond  considerations  of  efficiency,  a  good  tax  system  also 
should  be  simple  (i.e.,  easy  to  administer),  fair,  and  transparent. 

Prior  to  the  reform,  about  90  percent  of  the  personal  tax  base 
consisted  of  labor  income.  Statutory  marginal  tax  rates  on  labor 
income  were  very  high,  even  at  relatively  low  income  levels,  espe- 
cially after  the  revolution.  The  large  number  of  tax  exemptions 
and  fiscal  benefits,  together  with  high  marginal  tax  rates,  entailed 
the  progressive  erosion  of  the  tax  base  through  tax  avoidance  and 
evasion.  Furthermore,  Portuguese  membership  in  the  EC  created 
the  imperative  for  a  number  of  changes  in  the  tax  system,  espe- 
cially the  introduction  of  the  value-added  tax  (VAT — see  Glossary). 

Reform  proceeded  in  two  major  installments:  the  VAT  was  in- 
troduced in  1986;  the  income  tax  reform,  for  both  personal  and 


131 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


corporate  income,  became  effective  in  1989.  The  VAT,  whose  nor- 
mal rate  was  17  percent,  replaced  all  indirect  taxes,  such  as  the 
transactions  tax,  railroad  tax,  and  tourism  tax.  Marginal  tax  rates 
on  both  personal  and  corporate  income  were  substantially  cut,  and 
in  the  case  of  individual  taxes,  the  number  of  brackets  was  reduced 
to  five.  The  basic  rate  of  corporate  tax  was  36.5  percent,  and  the 
top  marginal  tax  rate  on  personal  income  was  cut  from  80  percent 
to  40  percent.  A  25  percent  capital  gains  tax  was  levied  on  direct 
and  portfolio  investment.  Business  proceeds  invested  in  develop- 
ment projects  were  exempt  from  capital  gains  tax  if  the  assets  were 
retained  for  at  least  two  years. 

Preliminary  estimates  indicated  that  part  of  the  observed  increase 
in  direct  tax  revenue  in  1989-90  was  of  a  permanent  nature,  the 
consequence  of  a  redefinition  of  taxable  income,  a  reduction  in  al- 
lowed deductions,  and  the  termination  of  most  fiscal  benefits  for 
corporations.  The  resulting  broadening  of  the  income  tax  base  per- 
mitted a  lowering  of  marginal  tax  rates,  greatly  reducing  the  dis- 
incentive effects  to  labor  and  saving. 

Macroeconomic  Disequilibria  and  Public  Debt 

Between  1973  and  1988,  the  general  government  debt/GDP  ra- 
tio quadrupled,  reaching  a  peak  of  74  percent  in  1988.  This  growth 
in  the  absolute  and  relative  debt  was  only  partially  attributable  to 
the  accumulation  of  government  deficits.  It  also  reflected  the  reor- 
ganization of  various  public  funds  and  enterprises,  the  separation 
of  their  accounts  from  those  of  the  government,  and  their  fiscal 
consolidation.  The  rising  trend  of  the  general  government  debt/ 
GDP  ratio  was  reversed  in  1989,  as  a  surge  in  tax  revenues  linked 
to  the  tax  reform  and  the  shrinking  public  enterprise  deficits  reduced 
the  public-sector  borrowing  requirement  (PSBR)  relative  to  GDP. 
After  falling  to  67  percent  in  1990,  the  general  government 
debt/GDP  ratio  is  expected  to  continue  to  decline,  reflecting  fiscal 
restraint  and  increased  proceeds  from  privatization. 

The  financing  structure  of  the  public  deficits  has  changed  since 
the  mid-1980s  under  the  effect  of  two  factors.  First,  the  easing  of 
the  PSBR  and  the  government's  determination  to  reduce  the  for- 
eign debt/GDP  ratio  led  to  a  sharp  reduction  in  borrowing  abroad. 
Second,  since  1985  the  share  of  nonmonetary  financing  has  in- 
creased steeply,  not  only  in  the  form  of  public  issues  of  Treasury 
bills  but  also,  since  1987-88,  in  the  form  of  medium-term  Trea- 
sury bonds. 

The  magnitude  of  the  public-sector  deficit  (including  that  of  the 
public  enterprises)  had  a  crowding-out  effect  on  private  investment. 
The  nationalized  banks  were  obliged  by  law  to  increase  their  holding 


132 


The  Economy 


of  government  paper  bearing  negative  real  interest  rates.  This  mas- 
sive absorption  of  funds  by  the  public  sector  was  largely  at  the  ex- 
pense of  private  enterprises  whose  financing  was  often  constrained 
by  quantitative  credit  controls. 

Portugal's  membership  in  the  EC  resulted  in  substantial  net 
transfers  averaging  1.5  percent  of  annual  GDP  during  1987-90. 
The  bulk  of  these  transfers  was  "structural"  funds  that  were  used 
for  infrastructure  developments  and  professional  training.  Addi- 
tional EC  funds,  also  allocated  through  the  public  sector,  were 
designed  for  the  development  of  Portugal's  agricultural  and  indus- 
trial sectors. 

After  1985  the  PSBR  began  to  show  a  substantial  decline,  largely 
as  a  result  of  the  improved  financial  position  of  public  enterprises. 
Favorable  exogenous  factors  (lower  oil  prices,  lower  interest  rates, 
and  depreciation  of  the  dollar)  helped  to  moderate  operating  costs. 
More  important,  however,  was  the  shift  in  government  policy.  Pub- 
lic enterprise  managers  were  given  greater  autonomy  with  respect 
to  investment,  labor,  and  product  pricing.  Significantly,  the  com- 
bined deficit  of  the  nonfmancial  public  enterprises  fell  to  below  2 
percent  of  GDP  on  average  in  1987-88  from  8  percent  of  GDP 
in  1985-86.  In  1989  the  borrowing  requirements  of  those  enter- 
prises fell  further  to  1  percent  of  GDP. 

In  April  1990,  legislation  concerning  privatization  was  enacted 
following  an  amendment  to  the  constitution  in  June  1989  that 
provided  the  basis  for  complete  (100  percent)  divestiture  of  nation- 
alized enterprises.  Among  the  stated  objectives  of  privatization  were 
to  modernize  economic  units,  increase  their  competitiveness,  and 
contribute  to  sectoral  restructuring;  to  reduce  the  role  of  the  state 
in  the  economy;  to  contribute  to  the  development  of  capital  mar- 
kets; and  to  widen  the  participation  of  Portuguese  citizens  in  the 
ownership  of  enterprises,  giving  particular  attention  to  the  work- 
ers of  the  enterprises  and  to  small  shareholders. 

The  Portuguese  government  is  concerned  about  the  strength  of 
foreign  investment  in  privatizations  and  wants  to  reserve  the  right 
to  veto  some  transactions.  But  as  a  member  of  the  EC,  Portugal 
eventually  will  have  to  accept  investment  from  other  member  coun- 
tries on  an  equal  footing  with  investment  of  its  nationals.  Signifi- 
cantly, government  proceeds  from  privatization  of  nationalized 
enterprises  will  primarily  be  used  to  reduce  public  debt;  and  to 
the  extent  that  profits  will  rise  after  privatization,  tax  revenues  will 
expand.  In  1991  proceeds  from  privatization  were  expected  to 
amount  to  2.5  percent  of  GDP. 


133 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Human  Resources  and  Income  Distribution 

One  of  the  striking  characteristics  of  the  Portuguese  people  is 
their  propensity  to  emigrate  (see  Emigration,  ch.2).  In  the  late 
1980s,  an  estimated  3.5  to  4.0  million  Portuguese  passport  holders 
were  living  in  foreign  lands,  equal  to  over  a  third  of  the  popula- 
tion residing  in  Portugal.  Emigration,  which  was  once  a  reflection 
of  Portugal's  international  importance  as  a  maritime  and  colonial 
power,  became  in  the  twentieth  century,  according  to  Thomas  G. 
Sanders,  "a  reflection  of  its  poverty  and  economic  weakness."  As 
a  consequence  of  this  population  diaspora,  large  numbers  of  Por- 
tuguese migrants  lived  in  Latin  America  (mainly  Brazil  and 
Venezuela),  industrial  Western  Europe  (mainly  France  and  Ger- 
many), Africa  (predominantly  the  Republic  of  South  Africa),  and 
North  America  (the  United  States  and  Canada).  The  Portuguese 
emigrants  to  the  EC  countries,  numbering  over  1  million,  differed 
in  several  ways  from  those  who  went  overseas:  most  of  them  were 
temporary  workers  who  planned  to  return  to  their  homeland,  and 
most  originated  from  the  mainland  rather  than  Madeira  and  the 
Azores  (Acores). 

Portugal's  comparative  poverty  within  the  EC  is  closely  associated 
with  lower  per  capita  investment  in  human  and  physical  capital. 
On  the  other  hand,  Portuguese  workers  are  recognized  for  their 
strong  work  ethic,  adaptability,  and  frugality.  Among  middle- 
income  countries,  few  can  match  Portugal  for  its  high  family  sav- 
ings rate.  Real  wage  rates  over  extended  time  periods  closely  reflect 
labor  productivity,  which  in  turn  is  correlated  with  the  factors  men- 
tioned above.  Although  government  intervention  can  temporarily 
alter  the  distribution  of  income  in  favor  of  labor  through  the 
manipulation  of  wage  rates  and  consumer  prices — as  indeed  hap- 
pened in  the  mid-1970s — labor  productivity  eventually  determines 
labor's  earnings. 

Employment  and  Sectoral  Composition  of  the  Labor  Force 

From  1960  to  1973,  Portuguese  policy  measures  supported  a  shift 
of  resources,  including  labor,  from  low-productivity  toward  high- 
productivity  uses,  especially  export-oriented  industries.  Rapid  and 
accelerated  economic  growth  was  reflected  in  the  profound  altera- 
tion of  the  sectoral  composition  of  the  work  force.  Between  1960 
(the  year  after  Portugal  became  a  charter  member  of  EFT  A)  and 
1973,  the  share  of  the  civilian  labor  force  engaged  in  agriculture, 
forestry,  and  fishing  fell  from  nearly  44  percent  to  just  under  28 
percent,  whereas  the  share  of  labor  engaged  in  industry  (includ- 
ing construction)  increased  from  slightly  less  than  29  percent  to 


134 


Fruit  vendor,  Porto 
Courtesy  Andrea  Matles  Savada 
Portuguese  fishermen  unload  their  catch. 
Courtesy  Portuguese  National  Tourist  Office,  New  York 


135 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

almost  36  percent,  and  in  the  services  sector  (including  transport 
and  communications)  from  nearly  28  percent  to  slightly  more  than 
36  percent.  The  shift  of  labor  out  of  agriculture  involved  a  reduc- 
tion of  the  number  engaged  in  that  sector  (a  decline  of  about  550,000 
workers  between  1960  and  1973),  as  well  as  in  the  proportion  of 
farmers  in  the  total  labor  force. 

Because  of  heavy  emigration,  the  working  population  of  con- 
tinental Portugal  shrank  from  more  than  3.1  million  in  1960  to 
just  2.9  million  in  1973,  and  employment  fell  by  an  annual  rate 
averaging  0.5  percent.  The  rapid  shrinkage  in  the  number  of  work- 
ers in  agriculture  was  not  accompanied  by  an  equal  or  greater  rise 
in  the  industrial  and  services  sectors.  Nearly  two  out  of  every  three 
Portuguese  taking  up  nonagricultural  employment  during  this  peri- 
od did  so  in  another  West  European  country.  France  was,  even 
at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  host  to  about  80  percent  of  the 
emigrant  workers,  most  of  whom  worked  at  unskilled  or  semi-skilled 
jobs.  The  110,000  Portuguese  in  Germany,  by  contrast,  had  found 
higher- skilled  work,  with  some  two-thirds  employed  in  industry 
in  1977.  Consequently,  net  emigration  between  1960  and  1973  ex- 
ceeded 1  million,  a  number  greater  than  the  natural  increase  in 
the  Portuguese  population.  In  the  thirteen  years  of  war,  from  1961 
to  1974,  1.5  million  Portuguese  had  seen  military  service  in  Afri- 
ca, and  during  1974  one  in  every  four  adult  males  was  in  the  armed 
forces.  During  this  period,  unemployment  was  kept  down  to  about 
4  percent  (and  to  less  than  3  percent  in  the  early  1970s),  largely 
because  of  massive  labor  emigration  to  industrialized  Western  Eu- 
rope and  the  military  draft. 

After  the  revolution,  the  demobilization  of  the  military  draftees 
and  the  return  of  Portuguese  nationals  from  Africa  produced  im- 
portant additions  to  the  mainland  population  and  labor  force.  From 
a  combined  strength  of  220,000  at  the  beginning  of  1974,  the  armed 
forces  demobilized  some  95,000  persons  in  that  year  and  60,000 
in  1975.  Furthermore,  an  estimated  500,000  returnees  (retornados) 
were  repatriated,  mainly  from  Angola  and  Mozambique,  and  most 
of  them  were  totally  without  resources,  having  had  to  leave  the  for- 
mer colonies  with  only  the  barest  essentials.  Initially,  their  former 
occupations  made  them  difficult  to  integrate  into  the  metropolitan 
economy:  67  percent  had  held  service  jobs  (as  public  employees 
or  office  workers),  whereas  only  20  percent  had  been  engaged  in 
industry  and  4  percent  in  agriculture.  Consequently,  the  Portuguese 
government  had  to  shoulder  an  extremely  heavy  burden  in  the  form 
of  the  various  benefits  granted  to  the  returnees,  including  cash  sub- 
sidies, provision  of  hotel  accommodations,  and  assistance  with  pur- 
chases of  essential  goods.  The  sum  of  these  benefits  was  estimated 


136 


The  Economy 


at  14  billion  escudos  (for  value  of  the  escudo — see  Glossary)  in  1976, 
or  about  1 1  percent  of  total  government  spending.  In  all,  the  in- 
crease in  the  civilian  population  from  1974  to  1976  was  probably 
about  900,000,  i.e.,  10  percent  of  the  total  population  in  1973. 

Following  this  brief  population  burst  in  the  number  of  main- 
land residents,  Portugal's  population  and  labor  force  resumed  their 
natural  rates  of  growth;  for  example,  in  the  1980-89  decade,  the 
annual  percentage  increases  were  0.5  percent  and  1.4  percent, 
respectively.  Between  1973  and  1990,  Portugal's  labor  force  grew 
by  more  than  1.8  million  (see  table  6,  Appendix),  of  which  more 
than  half  was  absorbed  in  the  services  sector  and  over  a  third  in 
the  industrial  sector.  Although  the  share  of  the  work  force  in  agricul- 
ture, forestry,  and  fishing  resumed  its  historical  relative  decline 
(from  nearly  28  percent  of  the  total  in  1973  to  almost  18  percent 
in  1990),  the  absolute  number  of  workers  in  that  sector  increased 
slightly.  Industry's  share  in  the  labor  force  remained  virtually  un- 
changed between  1973  and  1990  (at  about  35  percent),  but  the  ser- 
vices sector  added  nearly  1.2  million  employees,  its  share  in  the 
total  rising  from  over  36  percent  in  1973  to  47.4  percent  in  1990. 
A  major  explanation  for  this  growth  of  almost  1 1  percent  was  the 
explosive  increase  of  civil  service  employment  after  the  Revolu- 
tion of  1974. 

Wages  and  the  Distribution  of  Income 

Two  approaches  are  used  to  determine  how  income  is  divided 
among  citizens  of  a  country.  The  first  approach,  involving  the  size 
of  distribution  of  income,  compares  the  household  income  shares 
received  by  the  richest  20  percent  of  the  population,  the  poorest 
20  percent,  and  the  three  quintiles  between  these  extremes.  This 
approach  yields  an  income  concentration,  or  Gini  ratio:  the  higher 
the  ratio,  the  greater  the  degree  of  inequality.  Gini  ratios  can  be 
useful  in  comparing  the  degree  of  income  inequality  within  a  coun- 
try over  time  or  among  countries  during  the  same  time  frame.  The 
International  Labour  Organisation  estimates  for  Portugal  indicate 
that  the  Gini  ratio  changed  little  between  1967-68  (0.423)  and 
1973-74  (0.431),  corresponding  to  the  end  of  the  Salazar  and 
Caetano  administrations,  respectively.  By  comparison,  in  the  early 
1970s,  France's  Gini  ratio  was  0.416,  Germany's  0.376,  and 
Sweden's  0.346.  It  may  also  be  useful  to  compare  the  household 
income  share  received  by  the  poorest  40  percent  of  the  population 
with  the  share  received  by  the  richest  20  percent.  According  to  this 
indicator  (richest  20  percent  and  poorest  40  percent),  Portugal's 
income  distribution  profile  at  the  end  of  the  Caetano  period  (3.5) 
reveals  by  comparison  relatively  greater  equality  in  Spain  (2.4)  and 


137 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Italy  (3.0)  but  greater  relative  inequality  in  Costa  Rica  (4.6),  Mexico 
(5.3),  and  Brazil  (9.5).  Portugal's  income  concentration  profile, 
on  the  other  hand,  was  similar  to  that  of  France  (3.3)  and  Argen- 
tina (3.6)  during  the  early  1970s. 

The  second,  or  functional,  approach  to  income  distribution  mea- 
sures the  shares  going  to  the  various  productive  factors — en- 
trepreneurship,  land,  capital,  and  labor.  Wages  and  salaries  or 
compensation  of  employees  are  concepts  that  normally  show  the 
proportion  of  national  income  or  national  product  going  to  labor. 
In  the  aftermath  of  the  1974  military  coup,  from  mid- 1974  to 
November  1975,  the  newly  formed  labor  unions  within  the  General 
Confederation  of  Portuguese  Workers-National  Intersindical  (Con- 
federacao  Geral  dos  Trabalhadores  Portugueses-Intersindical 
Nacional — CGTP-IN)  greatly  increased  their  strength.  The  unions 
focused  on  expansion  of  the  public  sector,  employment  guaran- 
tees, and  income  redistribution.  In  response  to  labor's  demands, 
the  government  instituted  income-leveling  policies  that  included 
a  large  increase  in  the  minimum  wage  for  a  substantial  proportion 
of  the  work  force,  a  freeze  on  rents,  a  highly  graduated  income 
tax,  and  a  ceiling  on  salaries.  As  a  consequence  of  official  measures 
affecting  wages  and  salaries  (including  the  US$800  a  month  ceil- 
ing on  the  maximum  salary),  the  average  pay  gap  between  unskilled 
workers  and  managers  shrank  from  1:7  in  1973  to  1:4  in  1975. 
To  protect  increases  in  nominal  wages,  prices  of  essential  commodi- 
ties, particularly  food,  were  fixed  at  below  market  levels.  Real  wages 
increased  25  percent  between  1973  and  1975,  and  the  share  of  the 
wage  bill  in  national  income  rose  explosively  from  52  percent  in 
1973  to  69  percent  in  1975.  At  the  same  time,  the  proportion  of 
national  income  flowing  to  capital  and  entrepreneurship  (includ- 
ing income  of  artisans  and  other  self-employed  workers)  was 
sharply  eroded. 

Official  policies  were  also  reflected  in  the  distribution  of  income. 
Average  wage  income  of  the  lowest  quintile  almost  doubled  in  real 
terms  between  1972  and  1976;  the  second  and  third  quintiles  ob- 
tained an  increase  of  59  percent  and  45  percent,  respectively;  but 
the  real  remuneration  of  the  top  5  percent  declined  by  19  percent 
from  1972  to  1976. 

In  January  1979,  the  General  Union  of  Workers  (Uniao  Geral 
dos  Trabalhadores — UGT)  was  organized.  The  UGT  was  viewed 
as  a  viable,  democratic  alternative  to  the  CGTP-IN,  which,  as  of 
the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  continued  to  be  communist  dominat- 
ed, as  it  had  been  since  its  formation.  By  1990  these  two  union 
confederations  were  roughly  equal  in  size,  and  30  percent  of  the 
labor  force  was  unionized. 


138 


The  Economy 


How  has  the  working  class  fared  since  the  revolution?  Follow- 
ing the  short-lived,  government-induced  wage  explosion  in  1975-76, 
the  share  of  employee  compensation  in  national  income  (52.9  per- 
cent in  1979)  was  again  much  the  same  as  in  1973  (51.6  percent), 
and  from  1979  to  1989  that  share  was  on  a  downward  trend.  Real 
wages  per  capita  increased  only  10  percent  between  1973  and  1989, 
a  reflection  both  of  slow  labor  productivity  growth  (20  percent)  dur- 
ing this  sixteen-year  postrevolutionary  period  and  the  widening  "tax 
wedge,"  i.e.,  the  higher  social  security  taxes  contributed  by  both 
the  employer  and  the  employee.  Real  wages  per  capita  moved  on 
a  downward  trend  from  their  peak  level  in  1976  to  their  lowest  point 
(below  their  level  in  1973)  in  1984.  From  1984  to  1990,  real  wages 
rose  each  year  in  response  to  the  brisk  demand  for  labor  associat- 
ed with  Portugal's  economic  recovery.  The  rate  of  unemployment 
fell  to  4.7  percent  in  1990,  the  lowest  level  since  the  mid-1970s. 
This  rate  brought  the  cumulative  decline  since  the  unemployment 
peak  of  1985  (8.5  percent)  to  3.8  percentage  points.  An  estimated 
250,000  new  jobs  were  added  between  1985  and  1990. 

The  Portuguese  government  submitted  legislation  in  1988  to  abol- 
ish the  restrictive  individual  and  collective  dismissal  regulations 
that  had  been  in  effect  since  1976.  Although  approved  by  parlia- 
ment, the  law  was  declared  unconstitutional  by  the  courts.  In  the 
following  year,  however,  the  government  gained  court  approval 
of  less  sweeping  labor  reforms:  dismissal  procedures  were  simpli- 
fied and  the  conditions  eased  regarding  both  the  termination  of 
individual  contracts  and  collective  layoffs.  Under  this  law,  older 
unemployed  workers  were  permitted  reduction  of  the  early  retire- 
ment age  from  sixty- two  to  sixty.  Until  the  1989  labor  reform,  un- 
employment rigidity  was  coupled  with  a  high  degree  of  real  wage 
flexibility.  Consequently,  adjustment  to  external  shocks,  such  as 
the  sudden  price  explosion  of  imported  oil  between  1979  and  1980, 
was  effected  by  reducing  real  wages  rather  than  the  numbers  of 
employed. 

As  a  result  of  its  EC  membership,  Portugal  received  transfers 
from  the  European  Social  Fund  in  support  of  training  programs 
managed  by  private  firms.  The  fund's  contribution  to  the  Por- 
tuguese labor  market  amounted  to  1  percent  of  GDP  in  both  1987 
and  1988,  of  which  two-thirds  was  invested  in  training  an  estimat- 
ed 160,000  young  persons. 

Agriculture,  Forestry,  and  Fishing 

Agriculture,  forestry,  and  fishing  employed  17.8  percent  of  Por- 
tugal's labor  force  but  accounted  for  only  6.2  percent  of  GDP 
in  1990.  With  the  principal  exception  of  the  alluvial  soils  of  the 


139 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Tagus  River  (Rio  Tejo)  valley  and  the  irrigated  sections  of  the 
Alentejo,  crop  yields  and  animal  productivity  remained  well  be- 
low those  of  the  other  EC  members.  Portugal's  agro-food  deficit 
(attributable  mainly  to  grain,  oilseed,  and  meat  imports)  represented 
about  2.5  percent  of  GDP,  but  its  surplus  on  forestry  products 
(wood,  cork,  and  paper  pulp)  offset  its  food  deficit. 

Portugal's  overall  agricultural  performance  is  unfavorable  when 
viewed  in  the  context  of  the  country's  natural  resources  and  cli- 
matic conditions.  Agricultural  productivity  (gross  farm  output  per 
person  employed)  was  well  below  that  of  the  other  West  European 
countries  in  1985,  at  half  of  the  levels  in  Greece  and  Spain  and 
a  quarter  of  the  EC  average. 

A  number  of  factors  contribute  to  Portugal's  poor  agricultural 
performance.  First,  the  level  of  investment  in  agriculture  was  tradi- 
tionally very  low.  The  number  of  tractors  and  the  quantity  of  fer- 
tilizer used  per  hectare  were  one-third  the  EC  average  in  the 
mid-1980s.  Second,  farms  in  the  north  are  small  and  fragmented; 
half  of  them  are  less  than  one  hectare  in  size  and  86  percent,  less 
than  five  hectares.  Third,  the  collective  farms  set  up  in  the  south 
after  the  1974-75  expropriations  proved  incapable  of  modern- 
izing, and  their  efficiency  declined.  Fourth,  poor  productivity  is 
associated  with  the  low  level  of  education  of  farmers.  Finally,  dis- 
tribution channels  and  economic  infrastructure  are  inadequate  in 
parts  of  the  country. 

Agricultural  Zones 

Portugal  is  made  up  of  the  mainland  and  the  Azores  and  Madeira 
islands,  which  altogether  amount  to  a  land  area  of  91,640  square 
kilometers,  about  the  size  of  Indiana.  The  mainland's  land  area 
of  slightly  more  than  9.2  million  hectares  is  classified  as  follows 
(in  thousands  of  hectares):  2,755  arable  land  and  permanent  crops 
(including  710  in  permanent  crops),  530  permanent  pasture,  3,640 
forest  and  woodland,  and  2,270  other  land. 

A  useful  categorization  divides  the  mainland  into  three  distinct 
topographical  and  climatic  zones:  the  south  (the  Alentejo  and  the 
Algarve),  the  center  (the  Tagus  River  Valley  and  coastal  areas), 
and  the  north  (the  area  between  the  Rio  Douro  and  the  Rio  Min- 
ho,  Tras-os-Montes,  and  the  Beira  region). 

The  north  is  mountainous,  with  a  rainy,  moderately  cool  cli- 
mate. This  zone  contains  about  2  million  hectares  of  cultivated  land 
and  is  dominated  by  small-scale,  intensive  agriculture.  High  popu- 
lation density,  particularly  in  the  northwest,  has  contributed  to  a 
pattern  of  tiny,  fragmented  farms  that  produce  mainly  for  family 
consumption  interspersed  with  larger  and  often  mechanized  farms 


140 


The  Economy 


that  specialize  in  commercial  production  of  a  variety  of  crops.  On 
the  average,  northern  levels  of  technology  and  labor  productivity 
are  among  the  lowest  in  Western  Europe.  Extreme  underemploy- 
ment of  agricultural  workers  accounts  for  the  north  being  the  prin- 
cipal and  enduring  source  of  Portuguese  emigrant  labor. 

The  center  is  a  diverse  zone  of  about  75,000  hectares  that  in- 
cludes rolling  hills  suitable  primarily  for  tree  crops,  poor  dryland 
soils,  and  the  fertile  alluvial  soils  of  the  banks  of  the  Tagus  River. 
A  variety  of  crops  are  grown  on  the  productive  areas  under  irriga- 
tion: grains,  mainly  wheat  and  corn,  oilseeds  (including  sunflow- 
ers), and  irrigated  rice.  Farms  located  in  the  Tagus  Valley  typically 
are  100  hectares  in  size. 

The  south  is  dominated  by  the  Alentejo,  a  vast,  rolling  plain 
with  a  hot,  arid  climate.  The  Alentejo  occupies  an  area  of  approx- 
imately 2.6  million  hectares,  about  30  percent  of  the  total  area  of 
mainland  Portugal,  and  produces  about  75  percent  of  the  coun- 
try's wheat.  Although  much  of  the  area  is  classified  as  arable  land, 
poor  soils  dominate  most  of  the  area,  and  consequendy  yields  of 
dryland  crops  and  pasture  are  low  by  West  European  standards. 
The  Alentejo  is  also  known  for  its  large  stands  of  cork  oak  and  its 
olive  groves.  The  Algarve,  less  than  a  third  the  area  of  the  Alente- 
jo, occupies  the  extreme  southern  part  of  Portugal.  This  dryland 
area  is  characterized  by  smallholdings  where  animal  grazing  and 
fishing  are  the  principal  occupations  of  the  inhabitants. 

Crops  and  Livestock 

In  1990  wheat  was  the  leading  Portuguese  grain  crop,  followed 
by  corn,  which  was  grown  mainly  on  the  small  farms  of  the  north. 
Rice,  although  occupying  less  than  one-tenth  of  the  area  of  either 
wheat  or  corn,  was  a  significant  grain  crop.  Potatoes  and  corn  silage 
were  found  throughout  the  north. 

Portugal's  leading  edible  tree  crop  in  the  early  1990s  was  olive 
oil.  In  spite  of  the  importance  of  olive  oil  for  the  economy  and  the 
increasing  production  of  other  edible  oilseeds,  such  as  safflower 
and  sunflower,  Portugal  was  a  net  importer  of  vegetable  fats  and 
oils.  The  country  produced  a  variety  of  horticultural  crops,  some 
of  which  were  exported.  As  an  example,  Portugal  was  a  leading 
world  exporter  of  tomato  paste. 

In  the  mid-1980s,  over  300,000  hectares  were  in  vineyards.  Por- 
tugal is  one  of  Western  Europe's  major  producers  and  exporters 
of  wines.  The  most  important  vineyards  are  located  in  the  north- 
ern valleys  of  the  Rio  Douro,  Rio  Mondego,  and  Rio  Lima, 
but  vineyards  are  also  found  in  the  Algarve  and  the  Setubal  Pen- 
insula. Portugal's  dessert  wines — port  and  muscatel — and  rose 


141 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

wines,  notably  Mateus,  are  well  known  abroad.  Portuguese  red 
and  white  table  wines  are  less  well  known  outside  of  the  country, 
but  their  export  and  reputation  are  gradually  increasing. 

Crop  yields,  as  noted  above,  and  animal  productivity  remained 
well  below  those  of  Portugal's  European  counterparts  as  of  the  early 
1990s.  Yields  of  dryland  crops  and  pastures  are  low  by  EC  stan- 
dards, but  yields  on  irrigated  land  and  in  the  alluvial  soil  areas 
of  the  Ribatejo  are  comparable  with  EC  member  countries.  Por- 
tuguese grain-crop  yields  (kilograms  per  hectare)  are  less  than  a 
third  of  those  in  Germany  and  France  and  about  60  percent  of  those 
in  Greece  (see  table  7,  Appendix).  Portugal's  wheat,  corn,  and 
barley  yields  compare  unfavorably  with  its  European  counterparts. 
Portuguese  rice,  grown  on  irrigated  land,  shows  yields  only  about 
14  percent  below  those  of  France  and  about  25  percent  below  those 
of  Spain  and  Greece. 

Although  pastureland  is  scarce,  livestock  constitutes  a  signifi- 
cant share  of  total  agricultural  production.  Because  of  growing 
domestic  demand  for  animal  products  and  low  livestock  produc- 
tivity, Portugal  has  to  import  about  10  percent  of  its  meat  require- 
ments. Three-fourths  of  the  mainland's  milk  is  produced  in  the 
northwest's  coastal  areas. 

The  mainland's  livestock  numbers  in  1990  included  over  1 .3  mil- 
lion head  of  cattle,  over  5  million  sheep,  about  2.5  million  pigs, 
and  860,000  goats.  About  18  million  chickens  supplied  the  coun- 
try's poultry  industry  that  year. 

Forestry  and  Fishing 

As  of  the  early  1990s,  over  a  third  of  the  mainland  was  forest 
and  woodlands,  and  commercially  valuable  timber  stands  includ- 
ed pine,  cork  oak,  and  eucalyptus.  Pine  is  used  not  only  for  tim- 
ber but  also  for  resin,  pitch,  and  turpentine.  Eucalyptus,  a  fast 
growing  import  from  Australia,  has  become  a  major  source  of  pulp 
and  paper.  Cork  oak,  found  mostly  in  the  Alentejo,  is  the  source 
of  processed  cork,  a  traditional  Portuguese  export  commodity  ac- 
counting for  about  60  percent  of  world  sales. 

The  country's  long  coastline  and  seafaring  tradition  make  fish- 
ing a  significant,  but  declining,  source  of  income  and  jobs.  Lis- 
bon, Setubal,  Matosinhos,  and  Portimao  are  Portugal's  main 
fishing  ports  and  centers  of  commercial  fish  processing.  Of  the  more 
than  200  edible  species  caught  in  Portuguese  coastal  waters  and 
off  West  Africa,  the  most  valuable  is  the  sardine,  an  important 
source  of  domestic  food  supply  and,  in  canned  form,  a  traditional 
manufactured  export  product. 


142 


The  Economy 


Notwithstanding  Portugal's  maritime  tradition,  the  country's 
fishing  industry  in  terms  of  fish  catches  in  1990  (322,000  tons)  com- 
pared unfavorably  with  those  of  other  small  European  countries, 
notably  Norway  (1,747,000  tons),  and  Denmark  (1,517,000  tons). 

Land  Tenure  and  Agrarian  Reform 

The  system  of  land  tenure  on  the  eve  of  the  revolution  was 
anachronistic.  Very  large  estates  in  the  south-central  region  coex- 
isted with  peasant  farming  in  minute,  fragmented  plots  in  the  north. 
The  small  farms  typically  were  owner-operated,  with  the  proprie- 
tors' families  clustering  in  villages.  Absentee  landownership  charac- 
terized the  latifundio  system  with  day-to-day  operations  in  the  hands 
of  estate  managers.  Because  of  the  high  concentration  of  owner- 
ship in  the  south-central  provinces,  nearly  half  of  the  country's 
agricultural  labor  force  in  1973  consisted  of  landless  wage-earning 
rural  workers  whose  standard  of  living  was  extremely  low. 

Holdings  of  over  200  hectares  (about  0.3  percent  of  the  total  num- 
ber) accounted  for  39  percent  of  all  farm  land,  whereas  at  the  other 
end  of  the  scale  holdings  of  less  than  one  hectare  (about  39  percent 
of  the  total)  represented  no  more  than  2.5  percent  of  total  Por- 
tuguese farm  land. 

The  Agrarian  Reform  Law  of  July  29,  1975,  which  laid  down 
the  principles  for  the  expropriation  of  land,  validated  de  facto  land 
seizures  by  rural  workers  that  actually  had  begun  five  months  earli- 
er. The  law  provided  that  expropriation  should  apply  to  rural  es- 
tates in  the  "intervention  zone"  south  of  the  Tagus  River.  Lands 
that  could  have  been  expropriated  under  the  provisions  of  the  Agrar- 
ian Reform  Law  amounted  to  1 ,640,000  hectares,  but  the  area  oc- 
cupied by  the  rural  workers  reached  only  1,140,800  hectares,  or 
about  one-fifth  of  the  country's  total  farm  land.  On  the  occupied 
land,  449  "collective  production  units"  were  set  up,  bringing  var- 
ious estates  of  the  former  owners  under  a  single  peasant  directorate. 
Major  expropriations  took  place  in  the  districts  of  Evora,  Beja,  Por- 
talegre,  Setubal,  and  Santarem  (see  table  8,  Appendix).  Very  large 
collective  farms  were  formed  in  Portalegre  and  Beja  (averaging  be- 
tween about  3,500  and  4,200  hectares);  smaller  units  were  created 
in  Santarem  and  Setubal  (averaging  between  about  860  and  1,180 
hectares). 

As  Portugal  shifted  toward  moderation  and  the  political  center, 
collectivized  agriculture  increasingly  was  perceived  as  a  counter- 
productive approach  to  the  problems  of  the  rural  south.  By  the  mid- 
dle of  1990,  only  one-tenth  (104,000  hectares)  of  the  more  than 
1,080,000  hectares  taken  from  the  original  landowners  was  still 
in  possession  of  the  remaining  30  collective  farms.  The  gradual 


143 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

decollectivization  of  agriculture,  which  began  in  modest  form  in 
the  late  1970s,  culminated  in  a  reformed  agrarian  law  enacted  by 
parliament  in  late  1988.  Under  its  provisions,  the  maximum  size 
of  properties  eligible  for  reprivatization  was  increased,  and  land 
could  be  divided  among  the  heirs  to  an  estate.  Many  collective  farm 
members  agreed  to  accept  cash  payments  from  the  original  owners 
in  order  to  facilitate  change  of  ownership  or  received  individual 
titles  to  small  shares  of  the  former  collective  production  units. 

Agricultural  Policy  and  the  European  Community 

Portuguese  agricultural  markets,  both  inputs  and  outputs,  were 
subjected  to  substantial  policy  intervention,  particularly  after  the 
revolution.  Under  the  old  regime,  agricultural  pricing  policy  was 
largely  oriented  toward  the  provision  of  low-priced  foodstuffs  to 
urban  areas,  which  required  extensive  controls  over  imports  and 
marketing.  Three  state  marketing  enterprises  were  organized  after 
1974,  primarily  to  manage  trade  in  their  respective  commodity 
groups — cereals,  oilseeds,  and  sugar  and  alcohol — in  pursuit  of  price 
control  objectives.  Public  assistance  to  farmers  and  ranchers  in- 
volved subsidizing  intermediate  inputs,  primarily  fuels,  fertilizers, 
and  mixed  feeds.  These  subsidies,  however,  were  largely  removed 
in  June  1983.  After  the  revolution,  de  facto  credit  subsidies  for  farm- 
ers (often  associated  with  negative  real  interest  rates)  entailed  very 
high  transaction  costs.  As  a  result,  only  large  farmers  had  access 
to  the  formal  credit  system. 

As  a  condition  of  EC  membership,  Portugal  adopted  the  Com- 
mon Agricultural  Policy  (CAP),  a  basic  instrument  of  the  com- 
munity's integration  since  1962.  The  CAP  is  based  on  the  principles 
of  common  pricing,  EC  preference,  and  joint  financing.  As  Por- 
tugal adopted  the  transitional  arrangements  leading  to  full  com- 
pliance with  the  CAP,  both  the  locus  of  agricultural  decision  making 
and  the  level  of  incentives  given  by  the  system  of  price  supports 
shifted  from  the  nation  to  the  EC .  Portuguese  prices  of  some  com- 
modities at  the  time  of  entry  into  the  community  were  well  above 
the  EC  levels.  Cereal  and  dairy  sectors  will  experience  the  most 
serious  declines  in  real  prices  because  they  benefited  most  from 
price  increases  in  the  early  1980s  and  because  they  produce  the 
commodities  in  chronic  surplus  in  the  EC.  The  Alentejo  wheat  and 
livestock  systems,  both  based  on  poor  soils,  will  likely  become  un- 
profitable during  the  transition  to  EC  price  levels.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  prospects  for  rice,  tomatoes,  sunflowers,  and  potatoes, 
as  well  as  Portugal's  higher  quality  wine  systems,  appear  to  be 
favorable  under  the  CAP  regime. 


144 


Lisnave  docks  near  Lisbon 
Courtesy  General  Directorate  of  Mass  Communication,  Lisbon 

The  Industrial  Sector 

The  growth  of  Portugal's  industrial  sector  since  the  revolution 
was  less  dynamic  than  in  the  1960-73  period.  In  this  later  period, 
growth  was  strongly  affected  by  a  number  of  major  events,  both 
domestic  and  external:  the  two  oil  price  hikes,  the  nationalizations 
of  1975-76,  and  the  country's  accession  to  the  EC.  Nevertheless, 
Portugal's  industrial  production  grew  at  a  respectable  4.8  percent 
annual  rate  during  the  1980-89  decade,  leading  GDP  growth  (2.7 
percent  annually).  The  overall  industrial  index  advanced  43  per- 
cent between  1980  and  1989,  with  significant  divergence  in  the 
growth  rates  among  the  subsectors  of  manufacturing  (39  percent); 
electricity,  gas,  and  water  (74  percent);  and  mining  (74  percent). 
Mining  output  was  stagnant  from  1980  to  1988,  but  in  the  follow- 
ing year  it  surged  by  74  percent  as  the  Neves  Corvo  copper  mine 
went  into  operation.  Manufacturing,  the  largest  component  of  the 
industrial  sector,  also  showed  marked  growth  differences  among 
the  several  branches.  Lumber  and  cork  products,  a  traditional  rural- 
based  industry,  declined  by  26  percent  during  the  decade;  on  the 
other  hand,  paper  (75  percent),  chemicals  and  plastics  products 
(97  percent),  and  nonmetallic  mineral  products  (65  percent)  led 
the  advance  in  manufacturing. 


145 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Industrial  Regions 

Manufacturing  is  concentrated  in  two  major  industrial  regions: 
Lisbon-Setubal  in  the  south-central  region  and  Porto-Aveiro-Braga 
in  the  north.  Together  they  account  for  about  three-fourths  of  Por- 
tugal's net  industrial  output.  The  Lisbon  area  includes  such  major 
industries  as  iron  and  steel;  shipbuilding  and  repair;  oil  refining, 
machinery,  chemicals,  cement,  and  electronics;  and  food  and  bever- 
ages. Setubal,  about  eighty  kilometers  to  the  southeast  of  Lisbon, 
also  has  a  large  shipyard  and  automobile  assembly  and  machine 
industry  plants,  as  well  as  cement,  woodpulp,  cork,  and  fish  process- 
ing. Sines,  located  about  140  kilometers  south  of  Lisbon,  is  the 
site  of  a  major  deepwater  port  and  heavy  industrial  complex.  Be- 
gun during  the  Caetano  administration,  Sines  includes  an  oil 
refinery,  petrochemical  plants,  and  a  1 ,200-megawatt  coal-fired 
power  plant. 

Porto  is  primarily  a  center  of  light  industry,  including  textiles, 
footwear,  furniture,  wine,  and  food  processing.  Porto  is  also  the 
location  of  the  nation's  largest  petroleum  refinery;  the  other  is  lo- 
cated at  Lisbon.  Portimao  is  a  center  for  fishing.  Aveiro  special- 
izes in  woodpulp  and  other  wood  products  but  also  produces 
footwear  and  machinery.  Braga  specializes  in  textiles  and  cloth- 
ing, cutlery,  furniture,  and  electronics.  Covilha  is  also  an  active 
textiles  area. 

The  two  premier  industrial  regions  offer  the  greatest  concentra- 
tions of  population,  thereby  stimulating  market-oriented  manu- 
facturing operations.  Furthermore,  because  of  the  dependence  of 
modern  industry  on  imports  of  raw  materials,  machinery,  and  fuel, 
the  location  of  processing  plants  near  the  two  major  ports  minimizes 
their  operating  costs  (see  fig.  8). 

Industrial  Organization 

Industrial  organization  in  Portugal  reflects  three  major  owner- 
ship patterns:  private  domestic  firms  are  concentrated  in  traditional, 
light  industries  and  in  construction;  public  enterprises  dominate 
mining  and  major  heavy  industries,  mainly  iron  and  steel, 
petrochemicals,  shipbuilding,  petroleum  refining,  and  electricity; 
and  subsidiaries  of  multinational  corporations  dominate  the  tech- 
nically more  advanced  electronics,  automotive,  pharmaceutical,  and 
electrical  machinery  industries.  The  foreign  investor  presence  is 
also  important  in  the  pulp  and  paper,  chemical,  food  products,  and 
clothing  industries. 

In  general,  the  traditional  light  industries — textiles,  clothing  and 
footwear,  food  and  beverages,  cork  products,  and  furniture — are 


146 


The  Economy 


labor  intensive  and  technologically  backward.  Within  this  group, 
however,  the  medium-sized  establishments  (between  100  and  200 
employees)  enjoy  superior  management  capabilities  and  higher  lev- 
els of  productivity. 

The  Portuguese  construction  industry,  which  was  largely  un- 
affected by  the  1975  nationalizations,  emerged  in  the  late  1980s 
from  several  years  of  recession.  Since  the  mid-1980s,  EC  and  lo- 
cal counterpart  funds  have  financed  a  variety  of  infrastructure 
projects,  including  roads,  bridges,  and  sewage  and  water  treatment 
plants.  Commercial  building  and  house  construction  was  also  on 
an  upward  trend  after  that  time. 

According  to  the  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  of  the  twenty-five 
largest  industrial  firms  ranked  by  sales  in  1986,  ten  were  public 
enterprises  (including  nine  of  the  largest  ten),  and  nine  were  sub- 
sidiaries of  foreign-owned  firms.  Significantly,  by  the  mid-1980s, 
over  one-fifth  of  Portuguese  manufacturing  sales  were  by  subsidi- 
aries of  multinational  firms,  with  their  export  share  even  higher. 
Seven  of  the  ten  largest  manufacturing  export-oriented  firms  were 
controlled  by  foreign  investors. 

By  the  mid-1980s,  the  large  industrial  public  enterprises  faced 
extremely  difficult  financial  problems  associated  with  earlier  er- 
rors in  investment  and  pricing  policies.  After  the  second  oil  shock, 
many  of  these  enterprises  borrowed  heavily  abroad  to  finance  in- 
vestment projects,  which  often  were  poorly  conceived  and  poorly 
managed.  In  1986  operating  losses  of  Quimigal  (chemicals),  Side- 
rurgia  Nacional  (steel),  and  the  shipbuilding  company  Estaleiros 
Navais  de  Setubal  (Setenave)  totaled  29  billion  escudos,  or  30  per- 
cent of  total  public  enterprise  losses. 

As  a  result  of  their  excessive  dependence  on  debt  financing, 
Quimigal  and  Setenave,  as  well  as  Companhia  Nacional  de  Petro- 
qufmica  (CNP),  a  state-owned  petrochemical  enterprise,  had  a 
negative  equity  or  net  worth  position  (i.e.,  their  debts  exceeded 
their  assets).  Many  of  these  firms  in  the  mid-1980s  were  overstaffed 
and  had  concluded  wage  settlements  that  were  generally  higher  than 
in  the  private  sector. 

The  major  state-owned  industrial  enterprises  are  candidates  for 
ultimate  privatization.  In  anticipation  of  their  divestiture,  they  un- 
derwent financial  and  managerial  restructuring  in  the  late  1980s. 
As  an  example,  loss-making  enterprises  such  as  CNP  and  Setenave 
had  been  operating  under  private  management  contracts  to  make 
them  viable  for  privatization.  Two  major  privatizations  were  an- 
nounced at  the  end  of  1990:  Siderurgia  Nacional  and  Petrogal  (the 
largest  state-owned  petrochemical  firm).  To  assure  that  the  national 
steel  company  can  operate  successfully  within  the  EC's  single 


147 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


—  International  boundary 

(a? 

National  capital 

• 

Populated  place 

m 

Cork 

^< 

Fish  processing 

a 

Footwear 

Heavy  industry 

Light  industry 

n 

Petrochemical  industry 

Textiles 

CQ5    Wine-producing  areas 

Wood  products 

Coal 

Cr 

Chromium       Si!  Tin 

Cu 

Copper             U  Uranium 

Fe 

Iron  ore            W  Tungsten 

0 

25     50  Kilometers 

r 

0 

25          50  Miles 

Porto 


Aveiro 


Co  vi  I  ha  1 


M [antic 
Ocean 


A 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


SPAIN 


Figure  8.  Economic  Activity,  1992 


market,  the  Portuguese  government  was  considering  selling  Side- 
rurgia  Nacional  to  a  leading  European  steelmaker,  preferably  linked 
to  a  Portuguese  minority  partner. 

Energy  and  Mineral  Resources 

Portugal  produces  less  than  a  quarter  of  its  primary  energy  re- 
quirements and  depends  heavily  on  imported  hydrocarbon  fuels, 
mainly  petroleum.  Although  efforts  were  made  to  locate  domestic 


148 


The  Economy 


petroleum  deposits  in  the  early  1970s,  none  were  found.  Coal  ac- 
counts for  less  than  5  percent  of  Portugal's  primary  energy  use. 
Apparent  consumption  in  1988  is  around  2.9  million  tons,  of  which 
240,000  tons  were  mined  domestically.  Portugal's  low-grade  an- 
thracite coal,  the  production  of  which  has  stagnated  since  the 
mid-1970s,  is  mined  near  Porto.  The  United  States  has  emerged 
as  Portugal's  main  supplier  of  metallurgical  and  steam  coal.  A 
5 -million- ton-per-year  capacity  coal  terminal,  capable  of  handling 
150,000  deadweight-ton  vessels,  was  scheduled  to  be  completed  at 
Sines  early  in  the  1990s.  Because  Portugal  has  no  known  natural 
gas  reserves,  the  government  has  plans  to  build  a  liquified  natural 
gas  terminal  at  Setubal  and  a  gas  distribution  network.  Portugal's 
hydroelectric  potential  is  well  developed  and  provides  nearly  half 
of  the  economy's  electricity  requirements. 

As  a  result  of  Portugal's  accession  to  the  EC,  the  country's  energy 
sector  is  rapidly  being  deregulated  and  diversified.  The  state  elec- 
tric power  company,  Electricidade  de  Portugal  (EDP),  planned  to 
invest  US$700  million  between  1990  and  1995  on  dams  and  hydro- 
electric equipment.  In  1990  EDP  completed  its  second  coal-burning 
power  plant  station  to  reduce  its  dependency  on  imported  oil.  In 
addition,  coal  consumption  in  the  cement  industry  was  forecast  to 
grow  as  more  facilities  converted  to  coal  from  fuel  oil. 

Portugal's  metallic  mineral  resources  are  more  impressive  for  their 
variety  than  for  their  contribution  to  GDP.  The  most  important 
mines  are  in  the  north,  in  the  mountains  of  Beira,  where  tung- 
sten, tin,  chromium,  and  other  alloy  minerals  are  mined  in  commer- 
cial quantities.  Iron  ore  is  mined  in  Moncorvo  in  the  upper  Douro 
Valley;  formerly  exported  in  its  entirety,  the  Moncorvo  mine 
production  came  to  supply  the  government's  integrated  iron  and 
steel  works  at  Seixal  near  Lisbon  and  its  Maia  electric  steel  plant 
near  Porto.  Portugal  is  a  significant  world  source  of  tungsten  con- 
centrate, most  of  which  is  exported.  The  mine  has  an  annual 
production  capacity  of  1,400  tons  of  tungsten  concentrate. 

Portugal's  metallic  mineral  production  was  greatly  enhanced 
upon  the  completion  of  the  US$200  million  Neves  Corvo  copper 
mine  near  Castro  Verde  in  southern  Portugal — the  largest  non- 
coal  mining  development  project  in  Western  Europe.  An  estimat- 
ed 33  million  tons  of  7.8  percent  copper  were  proven  at  the  site 
as  of  1986.  The  concentrator  initially  will  process  one  million  tons 
of  ore  annually,  yielding  400,000  tons  of  concentrate  containing 
nearly  150,000  tons  of  copper.  The  Neves  Corvo  operating  com- 
pany is  owned  51  percent  by  the  government  and  49  percent  by 
RTZ  Metals  Group  of  Britain. 


149 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Services 

Portugal's  services  sector  dwarfs  agriculture  and  industry,  both 
as  a  contributor  to  GDP  and  as  a  source  of  employment.  In  1973 
services  accounted  for  39  percent  of  GDP;  by  1990,  that  share  had 
risen  to  nearly  56  percent.  In  1973  services  employed  slightly  over 
36  percent  of  the  total  labor  force,  and  in  1990  that  share  reached 
more  than  47  percent.  In  the  latter  year,  government  employed 
14.5  percent  of  the  Portuguese  labor  force,  followed  by  commerce 
(11.7  percent),  transportation  (4.3  percent),  financial  services  (3.2 
percent),  and  other  services  (12.3  percent). 

Commerce  and  Tourism 

Portuguese  domestic  commerce  is  dominated  by  numerous  small, 
family-owned  firms  concentrated  in  the  major  urban  areas.  Retail 
outlets,  around  80,000  in  the  late  1980s,  are  declining  in  numbers 
as  supermarkets  increase  their  market  share.  At  the  same  time, 
upscale  but  smaller  sales  outlets  are  growing  in  number,  replacing 
traditional  retail  shops.  In  both  retailing  and  wholesaling,  foreign 
investor  participation  is  helping  to  accelerate  the  modernization 
of  Portugal's  domestic  trade. 

Foreign  tourism  is  an  important  component  of  Portugal's  ser- 
vices sector.  Foreign  exchange  receipts  from  tourism  income 
amounted  to  US$3.58  billion  in  1990,  compared  with  US$0.55  bil- 
lion in  1973  and  US$1.15  billion  in  1980.  This  service  industry 
directiy  employed  an  estimated  150,000  persons,  equivalent  to  near- 
ly 4  percent  of  the  active  labor  force  that  year,  but  indirectly  had 
strong  secondary  impacts,  particularly  on  construction.  From  1973 
to  1990,  tourism  income  as  a  share  of  GDP  was  roughly  stable, 
fluctuating  between  5  and  6  percent.  The  mid-1970s  proved  to  be 
an  exception:  the  brief  period  of  radical  politics  combined  with  the 
global  recession  led  to  a  halving  of  foreign  arrivals  to  2  million  in 
1975  from  over  4  million  in  1973  and  to  a  sharp  reduction  in  the 
receipts/GDP  ratio  to  2  percent  from  5  percent  in  the  earlier  year. 
There  were  7.3  million  foreign  arrivals  in  1981,  16.5  million  in 
1989,  and  19.6  million  in  1991. 

Of  the  16.5  million  recorded  foreign  visitors  in  1989,  93  per- 
cent were  from  Western  Europe.  Spaniards,  not  surprisingly,  con- 
stituted three-fourths  of  all  visitors,  although  most  of  them  were 
excursionists,  that  is,  visitors  staying  for  a  period  of  less  than  twenty- 
four  hours.  Visitors  from  Britain,  although  only  7  percent  of  the 
total,  contributed  about  30  percent  of  tourism  earnings. 

Portugal  offers  many  attractions  to  vacationers  from  northern 


150 


Petroleum  refinery  near  Lisbon 
Cement  factory  in  the  Estremadura  region 
Courtesy  General  Directorate  of  Mass  Communication,  Lisbon 


151 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Europe  and  the  United  States:  medieval  castles  and  other  architec- 
tural landmarks,  a  number  of  which  serve  as  government-operated 
inns;  more  than  100  beaches  along  the  southern  coast  of  the  Al- 
garve;  and  a  resort  area  stretching  westward  from  Lisbon  at  the 
mouth  of  the  Tagus  River,  notably  the  famed  resorts  of  Cascais 
and  Estoril.  Other  attractions  include  Portugal's  mild  climate  and 
its  relatively  low  cost. 

The  major  goals  of  the  Portuguese  government  for  this  signifi- 
cant export  industry  are  to  improve  the  quality  of  tourism  services, 
to  attract  visitors  to  northern  locations,  to  safeguard  the  environ- 
ment, and  to  encourage  investment  in  tourism  facilities. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Portugal's  transportation  system  in  the  late  1980s  comprised 
73,660  kilometers  of  roads,  of  which  61 ,000  kilometers  were  paved; 
a  railroad  network  of  3,630  kilometers;  and  820  kilometers  of 
navigable  inland  waterways.  Lisbon,  on  the  Tagus  estuary,  and 
the  two  other  major  ports  at  Leixoes,  near  Porto,  and  Sines  are 
fully  equipped  and  have  adequate  warehousing  facilities.  Lisbon's 
Portela  Airport  is  a  major  European  air  terminal  and  transit  point 
for  some  eighteen  airlines.  Porto  and  the  Algarve,  as  well  as  the 
Azores  and  Madeira  islands,  are  also  served  by  international  air- 
ports. Transportes  Aereos  Portugueses  (TAP),  the  national  airline, 
operates  flights  within  the  country  and  also  serves  major  Europe- 
an cities  and  several  large  cities  in  the  United  States,  South  America, 
and  Africa  (see  fig.  9). 

Much  of  Portugal's  transportation  infrastructure — the  nation- 
alized railroad,  airline,  merchant  fleet,  and  trucking  and  bus 
lines — is  to  be  restructured  and/or  privatized  in  the  early  1990s. 
For  example,  Caminhos  de  Ferro  Portuguese  (CP),  the  national 
railroad,  approved  a  1988  plan  that  called  for  a  US$1.5  billion  in- 
vestment to  modernize  the  rail  system  by  1994.  The  plan  includes 
high-speed  "super  trains"  to  connect  Portugal's  major  cities  and 
Lisbon  to  Madrid.  In  addition,  in  the  second  half  of  the  1980s  the 
EC  began  to  give  substantial  assistance  for  improving  the  trans- 
portation infrastructure. 

Portugal  is  following  an  ambitious  program  to  modernize  its 
communications  system.  The  Assembly  of  the  Republic  approved 
in  July  1989  the  deregulation/liberalization  of  some  telecommuni- 
cations activities,  which  will  allow  private  firms  to  operate  com- 
plementary services,  such  as  cellular  phones,  videotex,  and  highly 
value-added  services  such  as  fax,  audiotex,  and  voicemail.  Radio 
and  television  are  also  opening  to  private  participation,  and  recep- 
tion of  satellite  television  is  expanding  rapidly. 


152 


The  Economy 


Banking  and  Finance 

The  importance  of  the  financial  system  to  the  economy  dwarfs 
its  direct  impact  on  employment  and  income.  A  well-functioning 
financial  system  serves  not  only  to  increase  the  mobilization  of  sav- 
ing but  also,  more  importantly,  to  direct  capital  resources  toward 
their  most  productive  uses.  Since  the  mid-1980s,  when  commer- 
cial banking  and  insurance  were  reopened  to  private  initiative,  the 
Portuguese  financial  system  has  evolved  toward  greater  liberali- 
zation, diversification,  and  internationalization. 

Although  the  private  financial  sector  has  grown  rapidly,  the 
eleven  nationalized  banks  and  eight  public  insurance  companies 
still  accounted  for  80  percent  and  60  percent  of  their  respective  mar- 
kets in  1989.  Notwithstanding  their  improved  operating  conditions 
and  higher  solvency  ratios,  the  profitability  of  most  nationalized 
banks  is  depressed  by  their  large  holdings  of  low-interest-bearing 
public  debt.  Bad  and  doubtful  loans  continue  to  burden  several 
state-owned  banks.  The  nationalized  banks  are  also  plagued  by 
undercapitalization,  overstaffing,  and  an  excessive  branching  struc- 
ture. Many  of  these  banks  have  large  pension  liabilities,  which, 
being  unfunded,  are  not  reflected  in  their  balance  sheets.  The  con- 
tinuing structural  problems  of  the  state  banks  date  back  to  the  late 
1970s  and  early  1980s  when  the  Portuguese  government  followed 
a  "soft  budget"  policy  that  emphasized  social  or  political  objec- 
tives over  market  criteria.  Banks  were  required  by  law  to  extend 
preferential  credit,  usually  at  negative  real  interest  rates,  to  the  large 
nonfinancial  public  enterprises,  as  well  as  to  the  general  govern- 
ment. Relaxation  of  the  normal  banking  sanctions  against  trou- 
bled or  failing  public  enterprises  threatened  the  capital  of  the  banks 
and  their  own  financial  viability.  The  Bank  of  Portugal's  quan- 
titative credit  controls  served  mainly  to  facilitate  commercial  bank 
financing  of  the  large  deficits  of  the  consolidated  public  sector.  The 
administrative  control  of  credit  penalized  private  small  and  medium- 
sized  enterprises,  in  particular. 

Portuguese  financial  markets  experienced  accelerated  change  after 
the  country  joined  the  EC  in  1986.  Deposit  and  lending  rates  were 
freed,  new  money  market  instruments  were  introduced,  and  in 
1990,  the  Bank  of  Portugal  removed  credit  ceilings  on  commercial 
banks.  The  Lisbon  Stock  Exchange  was  modernized  with  more 
stringent  rules  governing  the  disclosure  of  financial  information; 
precautions  were  also  taken  against  insider  trading. 

Enabling  legislation  in  1984  allowed  private  banks  and  insur- 
ance firms  to  be  organized.  By  the  late  1980s,  six  new  foreign  bank 
branches  had  been  established:  Manufacturers  Hanover  Trust, 


153 


Figure  9.  Transportation  System,  1992 


Chase  Manhattan,  Barclays,  Banque  Nationale  de  Paris,  Citicorp, 
and  Generale  de  Banque  of  Belgium.  Four  majority  Portuguese 
private  banks  were  also  set  up:  Banco  de  Comercio  e  Industria 
(BCI),  Banco  Internacional  de  Credito  (BIC),  Banco  Portugues 
de  Investimento  (BPI),  and  Banco  Comercial  Portugues  (BCP). 
By  December  1990,  BCP  had  become  Portugal's  leading  and  fastest 
growing  private  commercial  bank  with  total  assets  of  nearly  US$6 
billion.  A  number  of  private  investment  (para-banking)  institutions 


154 


The  Economy 


and  venture  capital  funds  have  also  become  part  of  the  financial 
picture  since  the  mid-1980s. 

During  the  first  phase  of '  'partial"  privatization — in  1988  before 
the  1989  constitutional  amendment — the  government  selected  a 
medium-sized  bank  (Banco  Totta  e  Agores)  and  two  public  insur- 
ance companies  (Alianca  Seguradora  and  Companhia  de  Seguros 
Tranquilidade)  as  the  first  to  be  privatized.  Share  issues  for  49  per- 
cent of  these  companies  were  substantially  oversubscribed  in  1989. 
After  passage  of  the  Reprivatization  Law  in  April  1990,  the  sale 
of  the  remaining  5 1  percent  of  both  Tranquilidade  and  Alianca 
shares  took  place  later  that  year,  and  an  additional  31  percent  of 
Banco  Totta  e  Acores  shares  were  also  sold.  Other  100  percent 
privatizations  of  financial  firms  envisaged  for  1991  included  the 
Banco  Portugues  do  Atlantico,  the  country's  largest  commercial 
bank. 

Significantly,  the  late  1980s  saw  the  reemergence  of  some  of  the 
prerevolutionary  family  groups  in  Portugal's  economic  landscape, 
particularly  in  the  financial  sector.  As  an  example,  the  Espiritu 
Santo  family  became  the  majority  shareholder  in  BIC  and  in  the 
Espiritu  Santo  Sociedade  de  Investimento  and  was  reported  to  be 
attempting  to  retake  control  of  the  Tranquilidade  insurance  com- 
pany. The  return  of  some  of  these  dispossessed  family  groups  to 
Portugal  reflects  a  turnaround  in  confidence  in  Portugal's  future, 
as  well  as  the  prospect  for  reinvestment  of  large  sums  of  flight 
capital. 

Notwithstanding  the  privatization  trend,  the  Portuguese  govern- 
ment intends  to  maintain  an  important  position  in  the  financial 
system  in  addition  to  its  control  over  central  banking  through  the 
Bank  of  Portugal.  The  two  major  financial  groups  reserved  for  the 
state  include,  first,  the  Caixa  Geral  de  Depositos,  the  largest  sav- 
ings bank;  the  Banco  Nacional  Ultramarino  (a  commercial  bank); 
and  Fidelidade  (an  insurance  company).  The  second  group  deals 
with  international  trade  and  export  promotion  and  consists  of  Banco 
de  Fomento  e  Exterior  (an  investment  bank);  Banco  Borges  e  Ir- 
mao  (a  commercial  bank);  and  an  external  credit  insurance  com- 
pany, Companhia  de  Seguros  de  Creditos  (Cosec).  Together,  these 
two  financial  groups  accounted  for  about  40  percent  of  Portugal's 
banking  transactions  in  1990. 

Foreign  Economic  Relations 

After  becoming  a  charter  member  of  EFTA  in  1959,  Portugal 
became  increasingly  open  to  the  rest  of  the  world  through  interna- 
tional trade  and  other  payment  flows.  In  1990  exports  of  goods 
and  services  accounted  for  about  37  percent  of  Portugal's  GDP, 


155 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

and  imports  of  goods  and  services  represented  about  47  percent 
of  GDP.  The  accession  of  Portugal  to  the  EC  on  January  1,  1986, 
required  fundamental  changes  in  the  country's  commercial  and  for- 
eign investment  policies.  A  seven-year  transition  period  ending  in 
1993  would  eliminate  most  barriers  to  trade,  capital  flows,  and  labor 
mobility  among  the  twelve  EC  member  countries.  During  this  peri- 
od, Portugal  was  a  net  recipient  of  EC  financial  transfers  to  help 
modernize  its  agricultural  and  industrial  sectors  for  competition 
in  the  single  market. 

To  rein  in  domestic  demand  growth — mainly  the  result  of  the 
public  sector  deficits  after  1973 — the  Portuguese  government  was 
obliged  to  pursue  IMF-monitored  stabilization  programs  in  1977-78 
and  1983-84  to  help  achieve  a  return  to  current  account  equilibri- 
um in  the  balance  of  international  payments.  Building  on  the 
1983-85  stabilization  program  and  in  the  context  of  Portugal's  ac- 
cession to  the  EC,  the  Council  of  Ministers  introduced  in  March 
1987  the  Program  for  the  Structural  Adjustment  of  the  Foreign 
Deficit  and  Unemployment  (Piano  de  Correccao  Estrutural  do 
Deficit  Externo  e  Desemprego — PCEDED),  a  medium-term  pro- 
gram aimed  at  a  lasting  correction  of  structural  imbalances — 
inflation,  fiscal  deficit,  external  deficit,  and  unemployment.  The 
program's  macroeconomic  approach  included  a  set  of  articulated 
measures  involving  fiscal,  monetary,  exchange,  and  incomes  poli- 
cy. As  an  instrument  of  the  government's  "controlled  development 
strategy,"  this  program  was  to  be  implemented  in  two  stages  cover- 
ing the  periods  1987-90  and  1991-94  and  is  designed  to  reduce 
Portugal's  susceptibility  to  external  shocks  by  strengthening  espe- 
cially the  energy  and  agricultural  sectors. 

Composition  and  Direction  of  Trade 

Portugal's  rising  share  of  manufactured  goods  in  total  merchan- 
dise exports,  which  reached  80  percent  in  1989,  is  indicative  of  the 
country's  newly  industrialized  status.  Between  1980  and  1988,  ex- 
ports of  manufactured  goods  increased  by  10  percent  per  year  by 
volume,  which  was  double  the  rate  of  its  European  neighbors,  and 
Portugal  gained  market  share.  The  country's  major  commodity 
exports  in  1990  included  textiles,  clothing,  and  footwear  (accounting 
for  37  percent  of  total  export  value);  machinery  and  transport  equip- 
ment (20  percent);  forest  products  (10  percent,  including  pulp  and 
paper  and  cork  products);  agricultural  products  (8  percent,  main- 
ly wine  and  tomato  paste);  chemicals  and  plastic  products  (5 
percent);  and  energy  products  (about  4  percent).  Portugal's  com- 
parative advantage  appears  to  lie  with  high  forestry  resources  con- 
tent (wood  and  cork  products,  including  pulp  and  paper)  and 


156 


The  Economy 


labor-intensive  products  (textiles,  clothing,  and  footwear).  With 
the  participation  of  multinational  firms,  Portugal  is  also  gaining 
competitive  strength  in  the  export  of  automobiles  and  automotive 
components  and  electrical  and  electronic  machinery. 

When  compared  with  the  other  EC  member  countries  and  the 
United  States,  Portugal  has  a  strong  competitive  advantage  because 
of  its  low  wage  scale.  As  an  example,  1989  hourly  labor  costs  in 
Portuguese  manufacturing  (in  United  States  dollars)  averaged  ap- 
proximately half  those  of  Greece  (a  country  with  a  similar  per  capita 
GDP),  a  third  those  of  Spain,  and  about  a  fifth  of  most  other  West 
European  countries  and  the  United  States. 

Manufactured  goods  (notably  machinery,  transportation  equip- 
ment, and  chemicals)  accounted  for  about  75  percent  of  merchan- 
dise imports  in  1989,  food  and  beverages  for  about  10  percent,  and 
raw  materials  (mainly  crude  petroleum)  for  about  16  percent.  Por- 
tugal imported  about  60  million  barrels  of  oil  yearly  during  the 
late  1980s,  but  the  share  of  crude  petroleum  varied  between  8  and 
20  percent  of  total  imports  depending  on  fluctuations  in  world  oil 
prices. 

Portugal's  commodity  trade  is  increasingly  dominated  by  the  EC 
(see  table  9,  Appendix).  In  1990  the  EC  member  countries  pur- 
chased nearly  74  percent  of  Portugal's  exports  and  supplied  over 
69  percent  of  its  imports;  in  1985,  the  year  prior  to  Portugal's  mem- 
bership in  the  EC ,  the  EC  member  countries  purchased  about  63 
percent  of  Portugal's  exports  and  supplied  nearly  46  percent  of  Por- 
tugal's imports.  Within  the  EC,  the  former  West  Germany,  France, 
and  Britain  were  Portugal's  leading  trading  partners.  But  after  the 
accession  of  both  Iberian  countries  to  the  EC  in  1986  (and  the 
dismantling  of  trade  restrictions  between  them),  Spain  suddenly 
emerged  as  a  significant  trading  partner,  taking  over  13  percent 
of  Portugal's  exports  in  1990  and  providing  14.4  percent  of  the 
latter 's  imports.  Thus,  Spain  ranked  with  West  Germany  as  Por- 
tugal's premier  national  supplier  in  1990,  ahead  of  France,  Brit- 
ain, and  Italy. 

The  relative  position  of  the  United  States  in  Portugal's  import 
trade  declined  sharply  from  nearly  10  percent  of  the  total  in  1985 
to  3.9  percent  in  1990.  Because  Portugal  heavily  imported  grain, 
soybeans,  and  animal  feedstuffs,  its  adoption  of  the  CAP  led  to 
costly  trade  diversion  from  former,  more  efficient  sources,  mainly 
the  United  States,  to  higher-cost  continental  EC  member  coun- 
tries. On  the  other  hand,  Portugal's  full  membership  in  the  EC 
will  permit  its  manufacturers  to  capture  a  larger  share  of  exports 
to  EC  member  countries  at  the  expense  of  lower-cost  exporters  from 
Latin  America  and  East  Asia;  similarly,  Portuguese  producers  of 


157 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

quality  wine  are  expected  to  gain  market  share  at  the  expense  of 
wine  producers  in  Mediterranean  countries  that  were  not  fully  in- 
tegrated into  the  EC.  In  both  these  cases,  trade  diversion  will  favor 
Portuguese  entrepreneurs. 

Portugal's  trade  with  the  previous  Escudo  Area  (its  former  Afri- 
can colonies)  has  fallen  sharply  since  the  revolution.  Still,  a  re- 
structured Angola  under  a  competent,  non-Marxist  regime  could 
once  more  offer  Portugal  significant  opportunities  for  two-way  trade 
in  the  late  1990s.  The  share  of  Portuguese  imports  supplied  by  the 
Organization  of  the  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries  (OPEC),  which 
amounted  to  over  17  percent  in  1985  (the  year  before  the  collapse 
of  world  oil  prices),  shrank  to  below  7  percent  in  1990. 

The  Balance  of  International  Payments 

The  balance  of  payments  reveals  much  about  how  the  residents 
of  a  nation- state  earn  their  livelihood  by  providing  goods  and  ser- 
vices to  foreigners  in  exchange  for  goods  and  services  produced 
abroad.  It  may  also  reveal  indirectly  whether  the  country  is  a  net 
creditor  or  net  debtor  in  its  dealings  with  the  rest  of  the  world. 
The  Portuguese  international  balance  is  characterized  by  a  pro- 
tracted and  large  merchandise  trade  deficit  that  is  largely  offset 
(financed)  by  annual  surpluses  on  invisibles,  mainly  emigrant  work- 
er remittances  and  tourism  income.  But  because  of  its  international 
debtor  position  (including  a  growing  stock  of  private  foreign  in- 
vestment in  the  country),  Portugal  annually  remits  substantial  in- 
terest and  dividend  payments  to  foreigners.  Portuguese  traders  rely 
predominantly  on  foreign  carriers  and  insurance  firms;  as  a  result, 
the  current  account  registers  annual  net  payments  (debits)  for  these 
services. 

From  1974  to  1984,  Portugal's  current  external  deficits  were 
financed  by  a  combination  of  foreign  reserve  drawdowns  and  offi- 
cial external  borrowing,  mainly  the  latter.  In  the  five-year  period 
1985-89,  three  years  of  current  account  surpluses  (for  1985-87, 
totaling  nearly  US$2  billion)  more  than  offset  two  years  of  current 
deficits  (for  1988-89,  totaling  US$1.6  billion).  Following  Portu- 
gal's accession  to  the  EC,  large  and  growing  inflows  of  private 
capital — direct  investment,  portfolio  investment,  and  repatriation 
of  flight  capital — resulted  in  substantial  accumulation  of  foreign 
reserves  by  the  Bank  of  Portugal. 

The  1989  balance  of  international  payments  was  fairly  represen- 
tative of  Portugal's  position  in  the  late  1980s.  The  merchandise 
trade  deficit  of  US$5.1  billion  was  more  than  covered  by  the  joint 
income  from  tourism  (US$2.6  billion)  and  emigrant  remittances 
(US$3.4  billion).  The  Portuguese  paid  exporters  and  importers 


158 


The  beach  at  Nazare 
Courtesy  Alan  J.  Savada 


US$832  million  (net)  for  the  use  of  foreign  carrier  and  insurance 
services  and  remitted  US$800  million  in  net  investment  income 
of  interest  and  dividends  (US$1,323  million  in  payments  and 
US$521  million  in  receipts).  Although  unilateral  transfers  (which 
do  not  give  rise  to  claims)  comprised  mainly  emigrant  worker  remit- 
tances, net  public  remittances  of  US$824  million  in  favor  of  Por- 
tugal, a  recent  component  of  the  balance  of  payments,  reflected 
mainly  EC  assistance  to  Portugal  in  support  of  economic  restruc- 
turing. 

The  algebraic  addition  of  the  current  account  balance  (  -US$551 
million)  and  the  medium-  and  long-term  capital  account  (US$2,560 
million)  netted  a  "basic  balance"  of  around  US$2  billion  in  1989. 

Tourism  and  Unilateral  Transfers 

Measured  in  terms  of  arrivals  and  foreign  exchange  receipts,  Por- 
tuguese tourism  has  grown  at  a  phenomenal  rate  since  the  early 
1980s.  Foreign  arrivals,  which  averaged  about  7.3  million  in  1981- 
1982,  expanded  sharply  each  year  thereafter,  stabilized  at  between 
16  and  17  million  during  1987-89,  and  then  increased  to  an  esti- 
mated 18.4  million  in  1990.  Receipts  from  tourism  rose  from 
US$1.15  billion  in  1980  to  US$3.58  billion  in  1990. 

In  1990  unilateral  transfers  reached  US$6.5  billion  (22  percent 
of  Portugal's  current  account  receipts),  of  which  73  percent  were 
private,  mainly  emigrant  remittances.  About  three-fourths  of  the 


159 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


emigrant  remittances  originated  in  Western  Europe  (mainly  France) 
and  one-fifth  in  North  America  (mainly  the  United  States).  These 
private  inflows  not  only  contributed  to  the  country's  foreign  ex- 
change earnings,  but  also  represented  a  significant  component  of 
Portuguese  household  savings. 

Gross  public  transfers  in  favor  of  Portugal  amounted  to  US$1 ,740 
million  in  1990,  of  which  nearly  half  (US$837  million)  represented 
structural  funds  from  the  EC  in  support  of  the  country's  economic 
and  social  modernization.  The  European  Social  Fund  assisted  in 
vocational  and  professional  training;  other  funds  participated  in 
the  Specific  Plan  for  the  Development  of  Portuguese  Agriculture 
(Piano  Economico  para  o  Desenvolvimento  da  Agricultura  Portu- 
guesa — PEDAP)  and  the  Specific  Plan  for  the  Development  of  Por- 
tuguese Industry  (Piano  Economico  para  o  Desenvolvimento  da 
Industria  Portuguesa — PEDIP).  The  Portuguese  government  was 
required  to  cofinance  projects  funded  by  these  EC  transfers. 
Although  Portugal  no  longer  was  a  member  of  EFTA,  the  latter 
continued  to  assist  the  former  member  country  in  its  economic  re- 
structuring efforts.  Finally,  included  in  the  category  of  official 
unilateral  transfers  were  United  States  government  military  and 
economic  grants  that  totaled  some  US$160  million  annually  for 
the  use  of  the  large  United  States  Air  Force  base  in  the  Azores. 

Foreign  Direct  Investment 

Foreign  direct  investment  increased  at  an  extraordinary  pace  after 
Portugal's  accession  to  the  EC.  From  a  modest  commitment  of 
around  US$166  million  in  1986,  the  annual  inflow  of  investment 
controlled  and  managed  by  foreigners  rose  sharply  in  the  follow- 
ing years,  reaching  US$2.7  billion  in  1991 .  At  the  end  of  that  year, 
the  accumulated  stock  of  direct  foreign  investment  exceeded  US$8 
billion,  or  eight  times  its  value  at  the  end  of  1986. 

From  the  perspective  of  multinational  firms,  Portugal  is  a  strong 
export  base  to  the  emerging  single  market  of  327  million  high- 
income  consumers,  and  since  the  mid-1980s  the  country  has  be- 
come especially  competitive  in  attracting  foreign  investment.  These 
attractions  include  political  stability  and  a  hospitable  investment 
climate  that  includes  EC  investment  subsidies,  the  lowest  wage  scale 
among  the  EC- 12,  and  programs  of  economic  deregulation  and 
privatization,  as  well  as  robust  national  economic  and  export 
growth. 

The  participation  of  EC -based  investors  in  the  annual  invest- 
ment flow  to  Portugal  increased  from  less  than  half  of  the  total  in 
1985-86  to  about  70  percent  from  1987  to  1990,  Britain  being  the 
principal  country  source.  Interesting  trends  in  the  composition  of 


160 


The  Economy 


this  investment  could  be  discerned.  Britain  was  the  leading  coun- 
try of  origin  throughout  this  period,  but  the  United  States  share 
fell  sharply  from  18  percent  of  the  total  investment  in  1985-86  to 
less  than  3  percent  in  1989-90.  Within  the  recently  enlarged  EC, 
Spain  emerged  as  a  significant  direct  investor,  increasing  its  share 
from  only  3  percent  of  Portuguese  new  investment  in  1985-1986 
to  over  13  percent  in  1989-90.  Brazilian  investors,  whose  share 
was  negligible  in  1985-86,  increased  their  participation  to  around 
7  percent  in  1989-90. 

Manufacturing,  the  destination  of  just  under  half  of  foreign  in- 
vestment inflow  in  1985-86,  received  only  27  percent  of  the  total 
in  1988-89;  by  contrast,  the  services  sector's  share  in  total  invest- 
ment flow  rose  from  45  percent  in  1985-86  to  over  60  percent  in 
1988-89.  Within  that  sector,  banking  and  insurance  increased  their 
participation,  although  investment  in  wholesale  and  retail  trade 
and  in  hotels  and  restaurants  continued  to  be  significant,  reflect- 
ing foreign  investor  participation  in  Portugal's  booming  tourism 
industry.  Several  new  investment  projects  in  the  automotive  in- 
dustry were  being  considered  in  1991,  including  participation  by 
Japanese  and  South  Korean  firms.  None,  however,  approach  in 
scale  the  Ford- Volkswagen  commitment  to  organize  an  automo- 
tive complex  at  Sines.  This  joint  venture  capitalized  at  US$3.2  bil- 
lion is  to  manufacture  a  new  European  minivan. 

Portugal,  unlike  many  other  middle-income  countries,  is  remark- 
ably hospitable  to  foreign  investment  (foreign-owned  enterprises 
were  legally  exempted  from  nationalization  during  1975-76).  The 
growing  pace  of  privatization  since  1988,  however,  gave  rise  to  de- 
bate regarding  the  ultimate  ownership  and  control  of  major  state 
firms  being  divested.  One  school  of  thought  anticipated  that  privati- 
zation would  "de-Portugalize"  vital  sectors  of  the  economy.  To 
some  degree,  Prime  Minister  Cavaco  Silva  shared  this  anxiety:  "At 
the  same  time,  we  shall  have  to  foster  economic  groups  in  Portu- 
gal. These  were  destroyed  at  the  time  of  the  revolution  with  na- 
tionalization. We  need  them,  as  otherwise  foreigners  will  come  in 
and  take  over  our  enterprises  and  economic  strategy  will  be  deter- 
mined from  abroad.  Thus  we  are  supporting  the  new  entrepreneurs 
in  industry  and  agriculture." 

Despite  the  formation  of  new  Portuguese  groups  able  to  com- 
pete against  foreign-based  multinational  companies,  it  is  doubtful 
that  these  national  firms  are  sufficient  in  number,  risk  capital,  and 
managerial-technical  know-how  to  absorb  most  of  the  large  enter- 
prises scheduled  for  divestiture. 

Although  the  government  has  succeeded  in  limiting  foreign  par- 
ticipation in  a  number  of  key  enterprises,  including  the  withholding 


161 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

of  a  temporary  "golden  share"  for  the  state,  such  limits  on  for- 
eign direct  investment  are  to  become  illegal  in  1995,  when  Portu- 
gal's capital  movement  regulations  will  come  fully  into  compliance 
with  those  of  the  rest  of  the  EC  members. 

Consequently,  the  prospect  of  losing  national  control  over  large 
branches  of  the  economy  appears  to  be  the  inevitable  price  of  secur- 
ing Portugal's  economic  future  and  closing  the  income  gap  between 
the  Portuguese  and  their  more  prosperous  neighbors. 

External  Public  Debt 

Portugal's  external  public  debt  was  on  a  steeply  rising  trend  from 
1976  onward,  reaching  nearly  US$18.5  billion  at  the  end  of  1987, 
its  peak  dollar  magnitude.  After  that  year,  early  repayments  of  prin- 
cipal slightly  reduced  outstanding  debt  to  slightly  over  US$18.4 
billion  in  1990.  As  the  proceeds  from  privatization  of  nationalized 
enterprises  are  applied  to  debt  reduction,  Portugal's  external  public 
obligations  will  continue  to  diminish. 

Debt- service  indicators  reveal  much  about  the  relative  burden 
of  Portugal's  foreign  indebtedness,  as  well  as  the  capacity  of  the 
economy  to  service  this  debt  (see  table  10,  Appendix).  More  rele- 
vant than  the  dollar  value  of  the  debt  is  the  ratio  of  public  external 
debt  to  GDP,  which  increased  inexorably  from  1980  to  1985  (from 
more  than  36  percent  to  more  than  80  percent,  its  highest  level) 
and  then  abruptly  fell  to  just  under  29  percent  in  1990.  Total  debt 
service  (scheduled  amortization  and  interest  payments)  as  a  share 
of  current  account  credits  (foreign  exchange  income  from  export- 
ing goods  and  services,  as  well  as  from  unilateral  remittances)  rose 
from  over  15  percent  in  1980  to  37  percent  in  1985  and  thereafter 
fell  to  16.7  percent  in  1990.  Portugal's  success  in  reducing  its  rela- 
tive external  debt-servicing  burden  by  about  half  between  1985  and 
1990  was  largely  the  result  of  burgeoning  export  receipts,  notably 
manufactured  goods  and  tourism  income,  although  growing  emi- 
grant worker  remittances  and  transfers  from  the  EC  also  played 
a  role. 

The  interest/GDP  ratio,  which  measures  the  net  burden  on  the 
Portuguese  economy,  more  than  doubled  from  3  percent  in  1980 
to  6.5  percent  in  1985  before  falling  back  to  2.9  percent  in  1990. 
The  external  debt/reserves  indicator,  which  compares  Portugal's 
foreign/public  obligations  (mainly  the  stock  of  long-  and  medium- 
term  debt)  with  its  gross  foreign  assets  (mainly  liquid  foreign  ex- 
change holdings  of  the  Bank  of  Portugal  and  the  Treasury,  with 
gold  valued  at  market  prices)  almost  tripled  between  1980  and  1985, 
when  the  country's  external  debt  exceeded  its  official  reserves  by 
67  percent.  As  a  consequence  of  the  rapid  buildup  of  Portugal's 


162 


Amoreiras  shopping  and 
office  complex  in  Lisbon 
Courtesy  Alan  J.  Savada 


official  reserves  from  1985  onward,  the  external  debt/reserves  in- 
dicator was  reduced  to  just  over  72  percent  in  1990.  This  massive 
accumulation  of  foreign  assets  at  the  disposal  of  official  institutions 
reflects  not  only  Portugal's  export  drive,  but  also  its  success  in  at- 
tracting direct  investments  from  its  EC  partners. 


The  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development 
annual  economic  surveys  give  an  authoritative  and  readily  availa- 
ble exposition  of  the  country's  economy  with  a  strong  policy  orien- 
tation. The  quarterly  Country  Report:  Portugal  and  the  annual  Country 
Profile:  Portugal  from  the  Economist  Intelligence  Unit  (EIU)  pro- 
vide current  economic  coverage,  and  Mark  Hudson's  Portugal  to 
1993:  Investing  in  a  European  Future,  also  published  by  EIU,  is  par- 
ticularly useful  for  analysis  of  Portugal's  economy  in  the  context 
of  that  country's  accession  to  the  EC.  For  additional  current  in- 
formation on  Portugal's  private  and  public  sector  economic  activi- 
ties, special  supplements  of  the  Economist  and  Financial  Times,  both 
published  in  London,  offer  well- written  coverage  for  the  non- 
specialist.  From  time  to  time,  Euromoney  publishes  special  reports 
on  up-to-date  banking  and  financial  developments  in  Portugal.  The 
Bank  of  Portugal's  annual  reports  provide  detailed  information, 
including  copious  statistical  tables,  on  the  Portuguese  economy. 


163 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Valentina  Xavier  Pintado's  Structure  and  Growth  of  the  Portuguese 
Economy,  published  by  the  European  Free  Trade  Association,  is  the 
definitive  study  of  the  economy  during  the  early  Salazar  period. 
Eric  N.  Baklanoff  s  The  Economic  Transformation  of  Spain  and  Portu- 
gal is  a  comparative  analysis  of  accelerating  economic  growth  in 
the  two  Iberian  countries  in  response  to  the  new,  more  open, 
market-oriented  economic  policies  initiated  in  1959  by  the  Franco 
and  Salazar  regimes. 

Among  the  more  useful  books  on  the  postrevolutionary  period 
in  English  are  Rodney  J.  Morrison's  Portugal:  Revolutionary  Change 
in  an  Open  Economy;  the  World  Bank's  Portugal:  Current  and  Prospec- 
tive Trends,  a  report  based  on  the  findings  of  a  mission  to  Portugal 
in  1978;  and  Portugal:  Ancient  Country,  Young  Democracy,  edited  by 
Kenneth  Maxwell  and  Michael  H.  Haltzel.  This  work  includes 
three  chapters  on  the  economy. 

Two  comparative  technical  studies  that  illuminate  Portugal's  in- 
tegration with  the  European  Community  are  Juergen  B.  Donges, 
The  Second  Enlargement  of  the  European  Community  and  European  In- 
tegration and  the  Iberian  Economies,  edited  by  George  N.  Yannopolous. 
(For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


164 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


Newspaper  vendor 


ON  APRIL  25,  1974,  the  Portuguese  armed  forces  overthrew  the 
ruling  corporative  government  in  a  virtually  bloodless  coup  d'etat. 
The  coup  ended  a  dictatorial  regime  established  by  Antonio  de  Oli- 
veira  Salazar  in  the  late  1920s  and  early  1930s,  and  carried  on  by 
his  successor,  Marcello  Jose  das  Neves  Caetano,  after  1968.  What 
began,  however,  as  a  simple  attempt  by  the  Armed  Forces  Move- 
ment (Movimento  das  Forcas  Armadas — MFA)  to  replace  the 
government  in  power  and  change  its  policies  quickly  became  not 
only  a  political  event  of  historic  proportions,  but  also  a  full-scale 
social  revolution. 

The  Revolution  of  1974,  as  it  came  to  be  known,  soon  involved 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  Portuguese  who  took  to  the  streets.  The 
highly  organized  Portuguese  Communist  Party  (Partido  Comunista 
Portugues — PCP),  emerging  from  exile  and  the  underground,  soon 
joined  forces  with  the  MFA.  Many  far-left  groups  also  participat- 
ed in  the  upheaval,  as  did  the  Socialist  Party  (Partido  Socialista — 
PS).  Many  members  of  the  country's  middle  class  joined  the 
process,  organizing  in  a  matter  of  months  political  parties  not  per- 
mitted under  the  old  regime. 

On  the  social  side,  the  events  that  began  in  the  spring  of  1974 
drew  on  the  deep  frustrations  of  a  society  and  people  emerging  from 
half  a  century  of  dictatorship,  isolation,  and  backwardness.  Chil- 
dren rebelled  against  their  parents,  enlisted  men  against  officers, 
employees  against  employers,  workers  against  factory  owners,  and 
tenant  farmers  against  absentee  landlords. 

There  were,  in  short,  two  revolutions  in  Portugal:  one  was  a 
process  of  political  change  that  grew  from  a  coup  d'etat  that  aimed 
only  at  changing  the  governmental  structure  at  the  top  into  a  move- 
ment that  touched  every  political  relationship;  the  other  was  a  pro- 
found social  transformation  that  seemed  bent  on  toppling  all  existing 
social  relationships. 

Portugal's  opening  to  democracy  attracted  worldwide  attention 
and  was  closely  scrutinized.  Portugal  was,  after  all,  not  a  remote 
Third  World  state,  but  part  of  Western  Europe.  It  belonged  to  the 
European  Free  Trade  Association  (EFTA — see  Glossary)  and  was 
a  founding  member  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 
(NATO).  A  full-scale  revolution  on  European  soil  and  the  possi- 
bility of  a  strong  communist  party  in  power  made  the  United  States 
and  West  European  countries  uneasy. 


167 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Eventually,  however,  the  Portuguese  revolution  played  itself  out, 
and  moderate  forces  came  to  direct  the  country's  affairs.  Elections 
for  the  Constituent  Assembly  in  1975  gave  mainstream  democratic 
political  parties  most  of  the  body's  seats  and  allowed  the  fashion- 
ing of  the  constitution  of  1976.  That  constitution  established 
parliamentary  democracy  while  preserving  many  of  the  revolution's 
radical  achievements  and  pledging  a  transition  to  socialism. 

Constitutional  amendments  in  1982  strengthened  the  powers  of 
the  parliament,  the  Assembly  of  the  Republic,  and  the  prime 
minister,  weakened  those  of  the  president,  and  placed  the  military 
under  civilian  control.  Further  amendments  to  the  constitution  in 
1989  erased  much  of  the  document's  ideological  commitment  to 
socialism  and  permitted  the  privatization  of  many  of  the  economic 
assets  nationalized  in  1974  and  1975. 

Seven  national  elections  between  1976  and  1991  consolidated 
the  place  of  the  new  system  of  democratic  government,  often  called 
the  Second  Republic.  In  addition  to  the  PCP  and  the  PS,  two  other 
parties  emerged  as  significant  political  forces:  the  Party  of  the  So- 
cial Democratic  Center  (Partido  do  Centro  Democratico  Social — 
CDS),  a  right-wing  Christian  democratic  party,  and  the  Social 
Democrat  Party  (Partido  Social  Democrata — PSD),  a  center-right 
group.  Until  the  national  election  of  1987,  when  the  PSD  won  a 
majority  in  the  Assembly  of  the  Republic,  the  parties  to  the  right 
of  the  PCP  had  usually  formed  coalition  governments.  None  of 
these  governments,  however,  was  strong  enough  to  serve  out  a  four- 
year  legislative  period  until  the  PSD  government  did  so  in  the 
1987-91  period.  Under  the  forceful  and  able  leadership  of  Anibal 
Cavaco  Silva  as  prime  minister,  the  single-party  PSD  cabinet  was 
able  to  meet  the  challenges  posed  by  Portugal's  membership  in  the 
European  Community  (EC — see  Glossary).  Cavaco  Silva  led  his 
party  to  a  second  majority  in  the  October  1991  parliamentary  elec- 
tions and  formed  another  PSD  government,  an  indication  perhaps 
that  the  new  democracy  was  taking  root. 

The  country's  first  president  elected  according  to  the  terms  of 
the  constitution  also  contributed  significantly  to  the  establishment 
of  parliamentary  democracy.  President  Antonio  dos  Santos  Ramal- 
ho  Eanes  (1976-86),  although  of  military  background,  abided  by 
the  new  constitution  and  submitted  to  amendments  that  reduced 
his  powers  and  returned  the  military  to  the  barracks.  These  ac- 
tions served  the  fledgling  democracy  perhaps  even  more  than  his 
extinguishing  the  coup  of  November  1975,  the  last  attempt  of  the 
revolutionary  left  to  seize  political  control.  Mario  Alberto  Nobre 
Lopez  Soares,  the  leader  of  the  PS,  succeeded  Eanes  in  1986  and 
became  the  country's  first  civilian  president  in  five  decades.  Soares 


168 


Government  and  Politics 


was  an  effective  and  popular  president  and  easily  won  a  second 
five-year  term  in  January  1991. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  Portugal's  democracy  was  only 
a  decade  and  a  half  old,  but  the  transition  to  democracy  seemed 
to  have  been  highly  successful.  Although  the  country  had  many 
social  and  economic  problems  to  solve,  the  economy  had  improved 
noticeably  and  political  stability  had  been  achieved.  A  free  press 
served  the  public,  a  marked  contrast  to  the  censorship  of  the  Sala- 
zar  regime.  These  developments  were  testaments  that  Portugal  had 
at  last  found  a  place  in  the  community  of  Western  democratic  na- 
tions, a  remarkable  transition  from  the  long  dictatorship  and  the 
subsequent  periods  of  revolutionary  upheaval  and  government 
weakness  and  instability. 

The  Revolution  of  1974  and  the  Transition  to 
Democracy 

Portugal's  experience  with  democracy  before  the  Revolution  of 
1974  had  not  been  particularly  successful.  Its  First  Republic  last- 
ed only  sixteen  years,  from  1910  to  1926  (see  The  First  Republic, 
ch.  1).  Under  the  republic,  parliamentary  institutions  worked  poorly 
and  were  soon  discredited.  Corruption  and  economic  mismanage- 
ment were  widespread.  When  a  military  coup  d'etat  ended  the 
republic  in  1926,  few  lamented  its  passing. 

The  Salazar-Caetano  Era 

The  republic  was  replaced  by  a  military  dictatorship  that 
promised  order,  authority,  and  discipline.  The  military  regime 
abolished  political  parties,  took  steps  against  the  small  but  vocal 
Marxist  groups,  and  did  away  with  republican  institutions.  In  1928 
it  invited  University  of  Coimbra  professor  Antonio  de  Oliveira  Sala- 
zar  to  serve  as  minister  of  finance.  In  1932  he  became  prime 
minister.  That  year  marked  the  beginning  of  his  regime,  the  New 
State  (Estado  Novo;  see  The  New  State,  ch.  1). 

Under  Salazar  (1932-68),  Portugal  became,  at  least  formally, 
a  corporative  state.  The  new  constitution  of  1933  embodied  the 
corporatist  theory,  under  which  government  was  to  be  formed  of 
economic  entities  organized  according  to  their  function,  rather  than 
by  individual  representation.  Employers  were  to  form  one  group, 
labor  another,  and  they  and  other  groups  were  to  deal  with  one 
another  through  their  representative  organizations. 

In  reality,  however,  Salazar  headed  an  autocratic  dictator- 
ship with  the  help  of  an  efficient  secret  police.  Strict  censorship 
was  introduced,  the  politically  suspect  were  monitored,  and  the 


169 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

regime's  opponents  were  jailed,  sent  into  exile,  and  occasionally 
killed. 

Portugal  drifted  and  floundered  under  this  repressive  regime  for 
several  decades.  Economic  conditions  improved  slightly  in  the 
1950s,  when  Salazar  instituted  the  first  of  two  five-year  economic 
plans.  These  plans  stimulated  some  growth,  and  living  standards 
began  to  rise. 

The  1960s,  however,  were  crisis  years  for  Portugal.  Guerrilla 
movements  emerged  in  the  Portuguese  African  colonies  of  Ango- 
la, Mozambique,  and  Guinea-Bissau  (formerly  Portuguese  Guinea) 
that  aimed  at  liberating  those  territories  from  "the  last  colonial 
empire."  Fighting  three  guerrilla  movements  for  more  than  a  de- 
cade proved  to  be  enormously  draining  for  a  small,  poor  country 
in  terms  of  labor  and  financial  resources.  At  the  same  time,  social 
changes  brought  about  by  urbanization,  emigration,  the  growth 
of  the  working  class,  and  the  emergence  of  a  sizeable  middle  class 
put  new  pressures  on  the  political  system  to  liberalize.  Instead,  Sala- 
zar increased  repression,  and  the  regime  became  even  more  rigid 
and  ossified. 

When  Salazar  was  incapacitated  in  an  accident  in  1968,  the 
Council  of  State,  a  high-level  advisory  body  created  by  the  consti- 
tution of  1933,  chose  Marcello  Caetano  (1968-74)  to  succeed  him. 
Caetano,  though  a  Salazar  protege,  tried  to  modernize  and  liber- 
alize the  old  Salazar  system.  He  was  opposed,  however,  by  a  group 
widely  referred  to  as  "the  bunker,"  the  old  Salazaristas.  These 
included  the  country's  president,  Admiral  Americo  Tomas,  the 
senior  officers  of  the  armed  forces,  and  the  heads  of  some  of  the 
country's  largest  financial  groups.  The  bunker  was  powerful  enough 
that  any  fundamental  change  would  certainly  have  led  to  Caetano 's 
immediate  overthrow. 

As  Caetano  promised  reform  but  fell  into  indecision,  the  sense 
began  to  grow  among  all  groups — the  armed  forces,  the  opposi- 
tion, and  liberals  within  the  regime — that  only  a  revolution  could 
produce  the  changes  that  Portugal  sorely  needed.  Contributing  to 
this  feeling  were  a  number  of  growing  tensions  on  the  political  and 
social  scene. 

The  continuing  economic  drain  caused  by  the  military  campaigns 
in  Africa  was  exacerbated  by  the  first  great  oil  "shock"  of  1973. 
Politically,  the  desire  for  democracy,  or  at  least  a  greater  opening 
up  of  the  political  system,  was  increasing.  Social  tensions  mount- 
ed, as  well,  because  of  the  slow  pace  of  change  and  the  absence 
of  opportunities  for  advancement. 

The  decisive  ingredient  in  these  tensions  was  dissension  within 
the  military  itself,  long  a  bulwark  of  the  regime.  Younger  military 


170 


Government  and  Politics 

academy  graduates  resented  a  program  introduced  by  Caetano 
whereby  university  graduates  who  completed  a  brief  training  pro- 
gram could  be  commissioned  at  the  same  rank  as  academy  gradu- 
ates. Caetano  had  begun  the  program  because  it  was  becoming 
increasingly  difficult  to  recruit  new  officers  as  casualties  from  the 
African  wars  mounted  (see  The  Military  Takeover  of  1974,  ch.  5). 

Spfnola  and  Revolution 

A  key  catalytic  event  in  the  process  toward  revolution  was  the 
publication  in  1973  General  Antonio  de  Spfnola' s  book,  Portugal 
and  the  Future,  which  criticized  the  conduct  of  the  war  and  offered 
a  far-ranging  program  for  Portugal's  recovery.  The  general's  work 
sent  shock  waves  through  the  political  establishment  in  Lisbon.  As 
the  first  major  and  public  challenge  to  the  regime  by  a  high-ranking 
figure  from  within  the  system,  Spfnola' s  experience  in  the  African 
campaigns  gave  his  opinions  added  weight.  The  book  was  widely 
seen — a  correct  assessment  as  it  turned  out — as  the  opening  salvo 
in  Spfnola' s  ambitious  campaign  to  become  president. 

On  April  25,  1974,  a  group  of  younger  officers  belonging  to  an 
underground  organization,  the  Armed  Forces  Movement  (Movi- 
mento  das  Forcas  Armadas — MFA),  overthrew  the  Caetano  re- 
gime, and  Spfnola  emerged  as  at  least  the  titular  head  of  the  new 
government.  The  coup  succeeded  in  hours  with  virtually  no 
bloodshed.  Caetano  and  other  high-ranking  officials  of  the  old  re- 
gime were  arrested  and  exiled,  many  to  Brazil.  The  military  seized 
control  of  all  important  installations. 

Spfnola  regarded  the  military's  action  as  a  simple  military  coup 
d'etat  aimed  at  reorganizing  the  political  structure  with  himself  as 
the  head,  a  renovaqao  (renovation)  in  his  words.  Within  days, 
however,  it  became  clear  that  the  coup  had  released  long  pent-up 
frustrations  when  thousands,  and  then  tens  of  thousands,  of  Por- 
tuguese poured  into  the  streets  celebrating  the  downfall  of  the  re- 
gime and  demanding  further  change.  The  coercive  apparatus  of 
the  dictatorship — secret  police,  Republican  Guard,  official  party, 
censorship — was  overwhelmed  and  abolished.  Workers  began  tak- 
ing over  shops  from  owners,  peasants  seized  private  lands,  low- 
level  employees  took  over  hospitals  from  doctors  and  administra- 
tors, and  government  offices  were  occupied  by  workers  who  sacked 
the  old  management  and  demanded  a  thorough  housecleaning. 

Very  early  on,  the  demonstrations  began  to  be  manipulated  by 
organized  political  elements,  principally  the  PCP  and  other  groups 
farther  to  the  left.  Radical  labor  and  peasant  leaders  emerged  from 
the  underground  where  they  had  been  operating  for  many  years. 
Soares,  the  leader  of  the  Socialist  Party  (Partido  Socialista — PS) 


171 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

and  Alvaro  Cunhal,  head  of  the  Portuguese  Communist  Party  (Par- 
tido  Comunista  Portugues — PCP)  returned  from  exile  to  Portu- 
gal within  days  of  the  revolt  and  received  heroes'  welcomes. 

Who  actually  ruled  Portugal  during  this  revolutionary  period 
was  not  always  clear,  and  various  bodies  vied  for  dominance.  Spi- 
nola  became  the  first  interim  president  of  the  new  regime  in  May 
1974,  and  he  chose  the  first  of  six  provisional  governments  that 
were  to  govern  the  country  until  two  years  later  when  the  first  con- 
stitutional government  was  formed.  Headed  by  a  prime  minister, 
the  moderate  civilian  Adelino  da  Palma  Carlos,  the  government 
consisted  of  the  moderate  Popular  Democratic  Party  (Partido  Popu- 
lar Democrata — PPD),  the  PS,  the  PCP,  five  independents,  and 
one  military  officers. 

Beneath  this  formal  structure,  several  other  groups  wielded  con- 
siderable power.  In  the  first  weeks  of  the  revolution,  a  key  group 
was  the  Junta  of  National  Salvation,  composed  entirely  of  high- 
ranking,  politically  moderate  military  officers.  Working  alongside 
it  was  a  seven-member  coordinating  committee  made  up  of  politi- 
cally radical  junior  officers  who  had  managed  the  coup.  By  the  end 
of  May  1974,  these  two  bodies  worked  together  with  other  mem- 
bers in  the  Council  of  State,  the  nation's  highest  governing  body. 

Gradually,  however,  the  MFA  emerged  as  the  most  power- 
ful single  group  in  Portugal  as  it  overruled  Spmola  in  several 
major  decisions.  Members  of  the  MFA  formed  the  Continental 
Operations  Command  (Comando  Operacional  do  Continente — 
COPCON)  composed  of  5,000  elite  troops  with  Major  (later 
Brigadier  General)  Otelo  Saraiva  de  Carvalho  as  its  commander. 
Known  universally  by  his  unusual  first  name  Otelo,  Carvalho  had 
directed  the  April  25  coup.  Because  the  regular  police  had  with- 
drawn from  the  public  sector  during  the  time  of  revolutionary  tur- 
moil and  the  military  was  somewhat  divided,  COPCON  became 
the  most  important  force  for  order  in  the  country  and  was  firmly 
under  the  control  of  radical  left-wing  officers. 

Spmola  formed  a  second  provisional  government  in  mid-July 
with  army  Colonel  (later  General)  Vasco  Goncalves  as  prime 
minister  and  eight  military  officers,  along  with  members  of  the  PS, 
PCP,  and  PPD.  Spmola  chose  Goncalves  because  he  was  a  moder- 
ate, but  he  was  to  move  increasingly  to  the  left  as  he  headed  four 
provisional  governments  between  July  1974  and  September  1975. 
Spmola' s  position  further  weakened  when  he  was  obliged  to  con- 
sent to  the  independence  of  Portugal's  African  colonies,  rather  than 
achieving  the  federal  solution  he  had  outlined  in  his  book.  Guinea- 
Bissau  gained  independence  in  early  September,  and  talks  were 
underway  on  the  liberation  of  the  other  colonies.  Spmola  attempted 


172 


Street  demonstration  during  the  Revolution  of  1974 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Portugal,  Washington 

to  seize  full  power  in  late  September  but  was  blocked  by  COP- 
CON  and  resigned  from  office.  His  replacement  was  the  moder- 
ate General  Francisco  de  Costa  Gomes.  Goncalves  formed  a  third 
provisional  government  with  heavy  MFA  membership,  nine  mili- 
tary officers  in  all,  and  members  of  the  PS,  PCP,  and  PPD. 

In  the  next  year,  Portuguese  politics  moved  steadily  leftward. 
The  PCP  was  highly  successful  in  placing  its  members  in  many 
national  and  local  political  and  administrative  offices,  and  it  was 
consolidating  its  hold  on  the  country's  labor  unions.  The  MFA  came 
ever  more  under  the  control  of  its  radical  wing,  and  some  of  its 
members  came  under  the  influence  of  the  PCP.  In  addition,  smaller, 
more  radical  left-wing  groups  joined  with  the  PCP  in  staging  huge 
demonstrations  that  brought  about  the  increasing  adoption  of  leftist 
policies,  including  nationalizations  of  private  companies. 

An  attempted  coup  by  Spmola  in  early  March  1975  failed,  and 
he  fled  the  country.  In  response  to  this  attack  from  the  right,  radi- 
cal elements  of  the  military  abolished  the  Junta  of  National  Salva- 
tion and  formed  the  Council  of  the  Revolution  as  the  country's 
most  powerful  governing  body.  The  council  was  made  responsi- 
ble to  a  240-member  radical  military  parliament,  the  Assembly  of 
the  Armed  Forces.  A  fourth  provisional  government  was  formed, 
more  radical  than  its  predecessor,  and  was  headed  by  Goncalves, 


173 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


with  eight  military  officers  and  members  of  the  PS,  PCP,  PPD, 
and  Portuguese  Democratic  Movement  (Movimento  Democrati- 
co  Portugues — MDP),  a  party  close  to  the  PCP. 

The  new  government  began  a  wave  of  nationalizations  of  banks 
and  large  businesses  (see  Nationalization,  ch.  3).  Because  the  banks 
were  often  holding  companies,  the  government  came  after  a  time 
to  own  almost  all  the  country's  newspapers,  insurance  companies, 
hotels,  construction  companies  and  many  other  kinds  of  business- 
es, so  that  its  share  of  the  country's  gross  national  product  (GNP — 
see  Glossary)  amounted  to  70  percent. 

The  Transition  to  Civilian  Rule 

Elections  were  held  on  April  25,  1975,  for  the  Constituent  As- 
sembly that  was  to  draft  a  constitution.  The  PS  won  nearly  38  per- 
cent the  vote,  and  the  PPD  took  26.4  percent.  The  PCP,  which 
opposed  the  elections  because  its  leadership  expected  to  do  poor- 
ly, won  less  than  13  percent  of  the  vote.  A  democratic  right-wing 
party,  the  Party  of  the  Social  Democratic  Center  (Partido  do  Cen- 
tro  Democratico  Social — CDS),  came  in  fourth  with  less  than  8 
percent  (see  table  11,  Appendix).  Despite  the  fact  that  the  elec- 
tions took  place  in  a  period  of  revolutionary  ferment,  most  Por- 
tuguese voted  for  middle-class  parties  committed  to  pluralistic 
democracy. 

Many  Portuguese  regarded  the  elections  as  a  sign  that  democracy 
was  being  effectively  established.  In  addition,  most  members  of 
the  military  welcomed  the  beginning  of  a  transition  to  civilian 
democracy.  Some  elements  of  the  MFA,  however,  had  opposed 
the  elections,  agreeing  to  them  only  after  working  out  an  agree- 
ment with  political  parties  that  the  MFA's  policies  would  be  car- 
ried out  regardless  of  election  results. 

Following  the  elections  came  the  "hot  summer"  of  1975  when 
the  revolution  made  itself  felt  in  the  countryside.  Landless  agricul- 
tural laborers  in  the  south  seized  the  large  farms  on  which  they 
worked.  Many  estates  in  the  Alentejo  were  confiscated — over  1  mil- 
lion hectares  in  all — and  transformed  into  collective  farms  (see  Land 
Tenure  and  Agrarian  Reform,  ch.  3).  In  the  north,  where  most 
farms  were  small  and  owned  by  those  who  worked  them,  such  ac- 
tions did  not  occur.  The  north's  small  farmers,  conservative 
property-owners,  violently  repulsed  the  attempts  of  radical  elements 
and  the  PCP  to  collectivize  their  land.  Some  farmers  formed  right- 
wing  organizations  in  defense  of  private  landownership,  a  rever- 
sal of  the  region's  early  welcoming  of  the  revolution. 

Other  revolutionary  actions  were  met  with  hostility,  as  well.  In 
mid-July,  the  PS  and  the  PPD  withdrew  from  the  fourth  provisional 


174 


Government  and  Politics 


government  to  protest  antidemocratic  actions  by  radical  military 
and  leftist  political  forces.  The  PS  newspaper  Republica  had  been 
closed  by  radical  workers,  causing  a  storm  of  protest  both  domes- 
tically and  abroad.  The  PS  and  other  democratic  parties  were  also 
faced  with  a  potentially  lethal  threat  to  the  new  freedom  posed  by 
the  PCP's  open  contempt  for  parliamentary  democracy  and  its 
dominance  in  Portugal's  main  trade  union,  Intersindical,  or  as  it 
came  to  be  known  in  1977,  the  General  Confederation  of  Portuguese 
Workers- National  Intersindical  (Confederacao  Geral  dos  Trabal- 
hadores  Portugueses-Intersindical  Nacional — CGTP-IN). 

The  United  States  and  many  West  European  countries  expressed 
considerable  alarm  at  the  prospect  of  a  Marxist-Leninist  takeover 
in  a  NATO  country.  United  States  Secretary  of  State  Henry  Kis- 
singer told  PS  leader  Soares  that  he  would  probably  be  the 
"Kerensky  [the  Russian  social-democratic  leader  whose  short-lived 
rule  was  the  prelude  to  a  Bolshevik  takeover]  of  Portugal."  The 
result  of  these  concerns  was  an  influx  of  foreign  financial  aid  into 
Portugal  to  shore  up  groups  committed  to  pluralist  parliamentary 
democracy. 

By  the  time  of  the  "hot  summer"  of  1975,  several  currents  could 
be  seen  within  the  MFA.  A  moderate  group,  the  Group  of  Nine, 
issued  a  manifesto  in  August  that  advocated  nonaligned  socialism 
along  the  lines  of  Scandinavian  social  democracy.  Another  group 
published  a  manifesto  that  criticized  both  the  Group  of  Nine  and 
those  who  had  drawn  close  to  the  PCP  and  singled  out  Prime 
Minister  Goncalves  for  his  links  to  the  Communists.  These  differ- 
ences of  opinion  signaled  the  end  of  the  fifth  provisional  govern- 
ment, in  power  only  a  month,  under  Goncalves  in  early  September. 
Goncalves  was  subsequently  expelled  from  the  Council  of  the  Revo- 
lution as  this  body  became  more  moderate.  The  sixth  provisional 
government  was  formed,  headed  by  Admiral  Jose  Baptista  Pin- 
heiro  de  Azevedo;  it  included  the  leader  of  the  Group  of  Nine  and 
members  of  the  PS,  the  PPD,  and  PCP.  This  government,  which 
was  to  remain  in  power  until  July  1976,  when  the  first  constitu- 
tional government  was  formed,  was  pledged  to  adhere  to  the  poli- 
cies advocated  by  MFA  moderates. 

Evolving  political  stability  did  not  reflect  the  country  as  a  whole, 
which  was  on  the  verge  of  anarchy.  Even  the  command  structure 
of  the  military  broke  down.  Political  parties  to  the  right  of  the  PCP 
became  more  confident  and  increasingly  fought  for  order,  as  did 
many  in  the  military.  The  granting  of  independence  to  Mozam- 
bique in  September  1975,  to  East  Timor  in  October,  and  to  An- 
gola in  November  meant  that  the  colonial  wars  had  ended.  The 
attainment  of  peace,  the  main  aim  of  the  military  during  all  these 


175 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

months  of  political  upheaval,  was  thus  achieved,  and  the  military 
could  begin  the  transition  to  civilian  rule.  The  polling  results  of 
the  April  1975  constituent  assembly  elections  legitimized  the  popular 
support  given  to  the  parties  that  could  manage  and  would  welcome 
this  transition. 

An  attempted  coup  by  radical  military  units  in  November  1975 
marked  the  last  serious  leftist  effort  to  seize  power.  The  leftists  were 
blocked,  however,  on  November  25  when  Colonel  Antonio  dos  San- 
tos Ramalho  Eanes  declared  a  state  of  emergency.  The  revolution- 
ary units  were  quickly  surrounded  and  forced  to  surrender;  about 
200  extreme  leftists  were  arrested  and  COPCON  was  abolished. 
The  glamour  of  revolutionary  goals  had  faded  somewhat,  and  peo- 
ple returned  to  their  jobs  and  daily  routines  after  eighteen  months 
of  political  and  social  turmoil.  A  degree  of  compromise  was  reached 
among  competing  political  visions  of  how  the  new  state  should  be 
organized,  and  the  constitution  of  1976  was  proclaimed  on  April 
2,  1976.  Several  weeks  later,  on  April  25,  elections  for  the  new 
parliament,  the  Assembly  of  the  Republic,  were  held. 

These  elections  could  be  said  to  be  the  definitive  end  of  a  period 
of  revolution.  Moderate  democratic  parties  received  most  of  the 
vote.  Revolutionary  achievements  were  not  discarded,  however. 
The  constitution  pledged  the  country  to  realize  socialism.  Further- 
more, the  constitution  declared  the  extensive  nationalizations  and 
land  seizures  of  1975  irreversible.  The  military  supported  these  com- 
mitments through  a  pact  with  the  main  political  parties;  the  pact 
guaranteed  the  military  guardian  rights  over  the  new  democracy 
for  four  more  years. 

Consolidation  of  Democracy 

The  PS  won  the  first  elections  for  the  new  parliament,  the  As- 
sembly of  the  Republic.  The  PS  took  36.7  percent  of  the  vote,  com- 
pared with  25.2  percent  for  the  PDP,  16.7  percent  for  the  CDS, 
and  15.2  percent  for  the  PCP.  Elections  for  the  presidency  were 
held  in  June  and  won  easily  by  General  Eanes,  who  enjoyed  the 
backing  of  parties  to  the  right  of  the  communists,  the  PS,  the  PPD, 
and  the  CDS. 

Although  the  PS  did  not  have  a  majority  in  the  Assembly  of  the 
Republic,  Eanes  allowed  it  to  form  the  first  constitutional  govern- 
ment with  Soares  as  prime  minister.  The  PS  governed  from  July 
23,  1976,  to  January  30,  1978.  A  second  government,  formed  from 
a  coalition  with  the  CDS,  lasted  from  January  to  August  of  1978 
and  was  also  led  by  Soares.  The  PS  governments  faced  enormous 
economic  and  social  problems,  including  runaway  inflation,  high 
unemployment,  falling  wages,  and  an  enormous  influx  of  Portuguese 


176 


Antonio  dos  Santos  Ramalho 
Eanes,  president,  1976-86 


Anibal  Cavaco  Silva, 
prime  minister,  1985- 
Courtesy  Embassy  of 
Portugal,  Washington 


settlers  from  Africa.  The  government's  failure  to  fix  the  economy, 
even  after  adopting  a  painful  austerity  program  imposed  by  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary),  ultimately 
forced  the  PS  to  relinquish  power.  The  party  could  be  judged  suc- 
cessful, however:  it  had  governed  Portugal  democratically  for  two 
years  and  helped  thereby  to  consolidate  the  new  political  system. 
After  the  collapse  of  the  PS-CDS  coalition  government  in  July  1978, 
President  Eanes  formed  a  number  of  caretaker  governments  in  the 
hope  that  they  would  rule  until  the  parliamentary  elections  man- 
dated by  the  constitution  could  be  held  in  1980.  There  were,  there- 
fore, three  short-lived  governments  appointed  by  President  Eanes. 
These  governments  were  led  by  Prime  Minister  Alfred  Nobre  da 
Costa  from  August  28  to  November  21,  1978;  Carlos  Mota  Pinto 
from  November  21,  1978,  to  July  31,  1979;  and  Maria  de  Lourdes 
Pintasilgo  (Portugal's  first  woman  prime  minister)  from  July  31, 
1979,  to  January  3,  1980. 

The  weakness  of  these  governments  and  the  failure  of  the  PS 
and  the  PPD,  now  renamed  the  Social  Democrat  Party  (Partido 


177 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Social  Democrata — PSD),  to  form  a  coalition  government  forced 
President  Eanes  to  call  for  interim  elections  to  be  held  in  Decem- 
ber 1979.  Francisco  Sa  Carneiro,  the  dynamic  leader  of  the  PSD 
and  a  fierce  personal  rival  of  Soares,  put  together  a  coalition  of 
his  own  PSD,  the  CDS,  the  Popular  Monarchist  Party  (Partido 
Popular  Monarquico — PPM),  and  another  small  party  to  form  the 
Democratic  Alliance  (Alianca  Democratica — AD).  The  AD  down- 
played its  intentions  to  revise  the  constitution  to  reverse  the  na- 
tionalizations and  land  seizures  of  the  mid-1970s  and  advocated 
a  moderate  economic  policy.  The  coalition  won  45.2  percent  of 
the  vote  in  the  elections,  or  128  seats,  for  a  majority  of  3  in  the 
250-seat  assembly.  The  PS,  which  had  also  formed  an  electoral  coa- 
lition with  several  small  left-wing  groups,  suffered  a  drubbing  and 
won  only  27.4  percent,  a  large  drop  compared  with  1976  results. 
The  PCP,  in  coalition  with  another  left-wing  party,  gained  slightly. 

Sa  Carneiro  became  prime  minister  in  January  1980,  and  the 
tenor  of  parliamentary  politics  moved  to  the  right  as  the  govern- 
ment attempted  to  undo  some  of  the  revolution's  radical  reforms. 
The  powers  conferred  on  the  presidency  by  the  constitution  of  1976 
enabled  President  Eanes  to  block  the  AD's  centrist  economic  poli- 
cies, however.  For  this  reason,  the  AD  concentrated  on  winning 
enough  seats  in  the  October  1980  elections  to  reach  the  two-thirds 
majority  necessary  to  effect  constitutional  change  and  on  electing 
someone  other  than  Eanes  in  the  presidential  elections  of  Decem- 
ber 1980. 

Portuguese  voters  approved  of  the  movement  to  the  right.  In 
the  parliamentary  elections,  the  AD  coalition  increased  the  num- 
ber of  its  seats  to  134,  the  PS  held  steady  at  74  seats,  and  the  PCP 
lost  6  seats  for  a  total  of  41.  The  AD's  win  was  not  complete, 
however,  because  President  Eanes  was  easily  reelected  in  Decem- 
ber. In  contrast  to  the  election  of  1976,  when  Eanes  was  support- 
ed by  the  PS  and  parties  to  its  right,  he  was  backed  in  1980  by 
the  PS,  the  PCP,  and  other  left-wing  parties.  Voters  admired  Eanes 
for  his  integrity  and  obvious  devotion  to  democracy.  His  election, 
however,  made  constitutional  change  less  certain  because  the  AD 
did  not  have  by  itself  the  required  two-thirds  majority.  The  AD 
also  suffered  a  serious  loss  when  its  dynamic  leader,  Sa  Carneiro, 
died  in  a  plane  crash  just  two  days  before  the  presidential  election. 
His  successor  was  Franciso  Pinto  Balsemao,  the  founder  and  edi- 
tor of  the  Expresso  newspaper. 

The  AD  coalition  remained  in  power  until  mid- 1983,  forming  two 
governments  with  Balsemao  as  prime  minister.  In  combination  with 
the  PS,  which  also  desired  fundamental  changes  in  the  political  sys- 
tem, the  AD  was  able  to  revise  the  constitution.  Amendments  were 


178 


Government  and  Politics 


passed  that  enhanced  the  power  of  the  prime  minister  and  the 
Assembly  of  the  Republic  at  the  expense  of  the  president  and  the 
military  (see  Constitutional  Development,  this  ch.).  The  revised 
constitution  was  promulgated  in  September  1982. 

Although  the  AD  government  had  achieved  its  main  objective 
of  amending  the  constitution,  the  country's  economic  problems 
worsened,  and  the  coalition  gradually  lost  popular  support.  Balse- 
mao  also  tired  of  the  constant  political  skirmishing  needed  to  hold 
the  AD  together  and  resigned  in  December  1982.  Unable  to  choose 
a  successor,  the  AD  broke  apart.  Parliamentary  elections  in  April 
1983  gave  the  PS  a  stunning  victory  that  increased  its  parliamen- 
tary seats  to  101.  After  long  negotiations,  the  PS  joined  with  the 
PSD  to  form  a  governing  coalition,  the  Central  Bloc  (Bloco  Cen- 
tral), with  Soares  as  prime  minister. 

The  Central  Bloc  government  was  fragile  from  its  beginning  and 
lasted  only  two  years.  Faced  with  serious  and  worsening  economic 
problems,  the  government  had  to  adopt  an  unpopular  austerity  poli- 
cy. Administrative  and  personality  difficulties  made  relations  within 
the  government  tense  and  resulted  in  bitter  parliamentary  maneu- 
vers. Overshadowing  these  difficulties  was  the  upcoming  presiden- 
tial election  in  early  1986.  Soares  made  clear  his  ambition  to  succeed 
Eanes,  who,  according  to  the  constitution,  was  not  allowed  to  seek 
a  third  consecutive  term.  A  split  within  the  PSD  over  its  presiden- 
tial candidate  ended  the  coalition  government  in  June  1985. 

In  new  assembly  elections  held  in  October  1985,  the  PS,  blamed 
by  the  public  for  the  country's  severe  economic  problems,  such 
as  a  10  percent  fall  in  wages  since  1983,  suffered  serious  losses  and 
lost  almost  half  its  seats  in  the  Assembly  of  the  Republic.  The  PCP's 
electoral  coalition  lost  six  seats;  the  PSD  won  thirteen  more  seats 
because  of  new  leadership;  and  the  CDS  lost  almost  a  third  of  its 
seats.  The  big  winner  was  a  party  formed  by  supporters  of  Presi- 
dent Eanes,  the  Party  of  Democratic  Renovation  (Partido  Reno- 
vador  Democratico — PRD),  which,  although  only  months  old,  won 
nearly  18  percent  of  the  vote  and  forty-five  seats.  The  party's  vic- 
tory stemmed  from  the  high  regard  Portuguese  voters  had  for  Presi- 
dent Eanes. 

No  party  emerged  from  the  October  1985  elections  with  any- 
thing even  close  to  an  absolute  majority.  Hence,  the  1985-87  period 
was  unstable  politically.  The  new  head  of  the  PSD,  economist 
Anibal  Cavaco  Silva,  as  prime  minister  headed  a  minority  PSD 
government  that  managed  to  survive  for  only  seventeen  months. 
Its  success  was  attributed  partly  to  support  from  the  PRD,  which 
as  a  young  party  wished  to  establish  itself,  although  it  was  a  motion 


179 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


of  censure  presented  by  this  party  in  the  spring  of  1987  that  even- 
tually brought  the  government  down.  Cavaco  Silva  also  benefited 
from  the  internal  dissension  of  other  parties. 

The  presidential  election  of  1986  did  not  yield  a  winner  in  the 
first  round.  The  candidate  of  the  CDS  and  the  PSD,  Diogo  Frei- 
tas  do  Amaral,  won  46.3  percent  of  the  vote  compared  with  25.4 
percent  for  Mario  Soares.  Freitas  do  Amaral,  the  candidate  of  a 
united  right,  profited  from  the  left's  mounting  of  three  candidates. 
In  the  two-candidate  runoff  election  in  mid-February,  Soares  won 
with  51.3  percent  of  the  vote,  getting  the  support  of  most  left-wing 
voters.  The  PCP  supported  him  as  the  lesser  of  two  evils,  even 
though  Soares  repeatedly  reminded  voters  that  he,  perhaps  more 
than  anyone  else,  had  prevented  the  Communists  from  coming  to 
power  in  the  mid-1970s. 

Cavaco  Silva  came  to  have  full  control  of  his  party,  the  PSD. 
As  prime  minister,  he  governed  boldly  and  pushed,  through  his 
influence  in  the  parliament,  for  a  liberalization  of  the  economy. 
He  was  fortunate  in  that  external  economic  trends  and  the  infu- 
sion of  funds  from  the  European  Community  (EC — see  Glossary) 
after  Portugal  became  a  member  in  1986  enlivened  the  country's 
economy  and  began  to  bring  an  unaccustomed  prosperity  to  Por- 
tuguese wage  earners.  Confident  therefore  that  his  party  could  win 
in  parliamentary  elections,  Cavaco  Silva  maneuvered  his  political 
opponents  into  passing  a  vote  of  censure  against  his  government 
in  April  1987.  Instead  of  asking  for  a  new  government  composed 
of  a  variety  of  parties  on  the  left,  President  Soares  called  for  elec- 
tions in  July. 

Cavaco  Silva  had  judged  the  political  situation  correctly.  The 
PSD  won  just  over  50  percent  of  the  vote,  which  gave  it  an  abso- 
lute majority  in  the  parliament,  the  first  single-party  majority  since 
the  restoration  of  democracy  in  1974.  The  strong  mandate  ena- 
bled Cavaco  Silva  to  put  forward  a  more  clearly  defined  program 
and  perhaps  to  govern  more  effectively  than  his  predecessors.  The 
emergence  of  a  single-party  government  supported  by  a  parliamen- 
tary majority  was  for  many  observers  the  coming  of  age  of  Por- 
tuguese democracy. 

The  Governmental  System 

Portugal  made  remarkable  political  progress  after  1974.  It 
replaced  the  authoritarian-corporatist  regime  of  Salazar,  and,  as 
of  the  early  1990s,  the  country  appeared  to  have  successfully  made 
the  transition  to  democracy.  Although  political  and  governmental 
problems  remained,  the  government  was  popularly  elected,  it  func- 
tioned according  to  the  constitution,  and,  since  the  mid-1980s,  had 


180 


Government  and  Politics 


done  so  with  notable  stability.  The  successful  transition  to  democracy 
in  the  Iberian  Peninsula  since  the  mid-1970s  (in  Spain,  as  well  as 
in  Portugal)  may  be  thought  of  as  one  of  the  most  significant  politi- 
cal transformations  of  the  late  twentieth  century. 

Constitutional  Development 

Portugal  is  governed  under  the  constitution  of  1976  whose  prelimi- 
nary drafting  was  largely  completed  in  1975,  then  finished  and  offi- 
cially promulgated  in  early  1976.  At  the  time  the  constitution  was 
being  drafted,  a  democratic  outcome  was  still  uncertain  because  the 
country  was  in  the  midst  of  a  revolution.  Even  after  a  leftist  coup 
had  been  put  down  in  November  1975,  it  was  not  known  if  the  armed 
forces  would  respect  the  assembly  and  allow  work  on  the  constitu- 
tion to  go  forward.  The  MFA  and  leftist  groups  pressured  and  ca- 
joled the  assembly,  and  there  was  much  discussion  of  establishing 
a  revolutionary  and  socialist  system  of  government.  Moreover,  not 
all  of  the  assembly's  members  were  committed  to  parliamentary 
democracy.  The  membership  was  intensely  partisan,  with  some  60 
percent  of  the  seats  occupied  by  the  left. 

After  great  struggle,  the  Constituent  Assembly  eventually  adopted 
a  constitution  that  provided  for  a  democratic,  parliamentary  sys- 
tem with  political  parties,  elections,  a  parliament,  and  a  prime  mini- 
ster. The  document  also  established  an  independent  judiciary  and 
listed  a  number  of  human  rights.  Noteworthy  features  of  the  con- 
stitution include  its  ideological  content,  its  provision  for  the  role  of 
the  military,  and  its  dual  presidential-parliamentary  system. 

The  constitution  was  a  highly  charged  ideological  document  that 
included  numerous  references  to  socialism,  the  rights  of  workers, 
and  the  desirability  of  a  socialist  economy.  It  severely  restricted  pri- 
vate investment  and  business  activity.  Many  of  these  articles  were 
advanced  by  PCP  representatives  in  the  Constituent  Assembly,  but 
they  were  also  advocated  by  members  of  the  PS,  who  at  that  time, 
for  electoral  reasons,  were  seeking  to  be  as  revolutionary  as  the  far 
left.  The  resulting  document  proclaimed  that  the  object  of  the  republic 
was  "to  ensure  the  transition  to  socialism."  The  constitution  also 
urged  the  state  to  "socialize  the  means  of  production  and  abolish 
the  exploitation  of  man  by  man,"  phrases  that  echoed  Marx's 
Communist  Manifesto.  Workers'  Committees  were  given  the  right  to 
supervise  the  management  of  enterprises  and  to  have  their  represen- 
tatives elected  to  the  boards  of  state-owned  firms.  The  government, 
among  many  admonitions  along  the  same  vein,  was  to  "direct  its 
work  toward  the  socialization  of  medicine  and  the  medico- 
pharmaceutical  sectors. ' ' 


181 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


The  constitution  gave  the  military  great  political  power  through 
the  role  given  to  the  M FA- controlled  Council  of  the  Revolution 
that,  in  effect,  made  the  MFA  a  separate  and  almost  co-equal 
branch  of  government.  The  council  was  to  be  an  advisory  body 
to  the  president  (who  was  at  first  likely  to  come  from  the  military 
itself)  and  would  function  as  a  sort  of  constitutional  court  to  en- 
sure that  the  laws  passed  by  parliament  were  in  accord  with  the 
MFA's  desires  and  did  not  undermine  the  achievements  of  the  revo- 
lution. The  council  was  also  to  serve  as  a  high-level  decision-making 
body  for  the  armed  forces  themselves.  The  council  was  a  conces- 
sion to  the  MFA  for  allowing  the  Constituent  Assembly  to  sit  and 
promulgate  a  new  "basic  law."  Some  members  of  the  Portuguese 
left,  especially  the  PCP,  supported  the  council  in  the  hope  that  they 
would  continue  to  enjoy  MFA  support  even  if  they  lost  ground  with 
the  electorate. 

The  final  innovative  feature  of  the  constitution  was  its  provi- 
sion for  a  system  of  government  that  was  both  presidential  and 
parliamentarian.  The  Constituent  Assembly  favored  two  centers 
of  power  in  order  to  avoid  both  the  dangers  of  an  excessively  strong 
executive,  as  was  the  case  during  the  Salazar  period,  and  the  weak- 
nesses of  parliamentary  instability,  as  was  the  case  in  the  First 
Republic. 

The  constitution  was  controversial  from  the  start.  It  was  widely 
seen  in  political  circles  as  a  compromise  document  because  all  par- 
ticipants in  its  drafting  had  been  able  to  incorporate  in  it  provi- 
sions they  found  vital.  The  constitution's  parliamentary  sections 
had  the  support  of  the  PS,  the  PSD,  and  the  CDS;  its  socialistic 
content  had  the  support  of  the  PCP  and  its  allies  and  the  PS. 

Even  before  the  constitution  became  law,  politicians  had  agreed 
to  change  some  provisions  after  the  five-year  period  in  which 
changes  were  prohibited  had  elapsed.  Objections  to  the  document 
centered  on  its  ideological  content,  its  economic  restrictions,  and 
its  recognition  of  a  military  role  in  the  governance  of  the  country. 
The  CDS,  the  party  furthest  to  the  right  among  the  groups  that 
had  participated  in  the  document's  drafting,  refused  to  ratify  it. 
The  CDS  did  agree  to  abide  by  the  constitution  in  the  interim, 
however. 

By  the  early  1980s,  the  political  climate  was  ripe  for  constitu- 
tional reform.  The  center-right  coalition  AD,  formed  by  the  PSD, 
the  CDS,  and  the  monarchist  party,  the  PPM,  was  in  power;  the 
PS  had  been  voted  out  of  office,  and  the  PCP  was  politically  iso- 
lated. The  first  amendments,  enacted  in  1982,  dealt  with  the  con- 
stitution's political  arrangements.  Although  many  of  the  economic 
provisions  of  the  constitution  had  been  not  been  implemented  and 


182 


Government  and  Politics 


were,  in  effect,  being  ignored,  there  were  not  yet  enough  votes  to 
reach  the  required  two-thirds  majority  needed  to  amend  them. 

The  1982  amendments  were  enacted  through  the  combined  votes 
of  the  AD  and  the  PS.  This  combination  of  center-right  and  center- 
left  political  forces  managed  to  end  the  military's  control  of  Por- 
tuguese politics  (see  The  Armed  Forces  in  Political  Life  after  1974, 
ch.  5).  It  abolished  the  Council  of  the  Revolution,  controlled  by 
the  military,  and  replaced  it  with  two  consultative  bodies.  One  of 
these,  the  Higher  Council  of  National  Defense,  was  limited  to  com- 
menting on  military  matters.  The  other,  the  Council  of  State,  was 
broadly  representative  of  the  entire  country  and  did  not  have  the 
power  to  prevent  government  and  parliamentary  actions  by  declar- 
ing them  unconstitutional.  Another  amendment  created  a  Con- 
stitutional Court  to  review  the  constitutionality  of  legislation. 
Because  ten  of  its  thirteen  judges  were  chosen  by  the  Assembly  of 
the  Republic,  the  court  was  under  parliamentary  control.  Another 
important  change  reduced  the  president's  power  by  restricting 
presidential  ability  to  dismiss  the  government,  dissolve  parliament, 
or  veto  legislation. 

Despite  these  amendments,  centrists  and  conservatives  continued 
to  criticize  the  constitution  as  too  ideological  and  economically  re- 
strictive. Hence,  the  constitution  was  amended  again  in  1989.  Many 
economic  restrictions  were  removed  and  much  ideological  language 
eliminated,  while  governmental  structures  remained  unchanged. 
The  most  important  change  enabled  the  state  to  privatize  much 
of  the  property  and  many  of  the  enterprises  nationalized  during 
the  mid-1970s. 

Further  amendments  were  to  become  possible  in  1994.  Political 
scientists  speculated  that  the  electoral  system  might  be  amended 
so  that  Portuguese  living  abroad  could  vote  in  presidential  elec- 
tions, a  change  that  had  long  been  sought.  Another  change  could 
be  the  introduction  of  the  concept  of  the  "constructive  vote  of  no 
confidence"  used  in  Germany  to  help  shore  up  minority  govern- 
ments. This  parliamentary  provision  would  permit  a  government 
to  remain  in  place  despite  a  vote  of  no  confidence  if  the  parlia- 
ment could  not  form  an  alternative  government  and  would  pre- 
vent purely  negative  majorities  from  destroying  a  government.  As 
of  the  early  1990s,  a  Portuguese  government  that  received  a  vote 
of  no  confidence  had  to  resign. 

The  Presidency 

Although  Portugal's  government  includes  a  parliament,  an  as- 
sembly, and  a  cabinet  needing  parliamentary  support,  its  presi- 
dent has  considerable  power.  As  noted  above,  this  dual  system  was 


183 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

a  response  to  the  Portugal's  experiences  with  parliamentary  insta- 
bility and  dictatorship.  Yet,  the  extent  of  the  president's  power, 
even  after  the  1982  revision  of  the  constitution,  was  not  always  clear. 
As  a  result,  at  times  the  relationships  among  the  main  institutions 
of  the  Portuguese  system  remained  somewhat  ambiguous. 

The  president  is  elected  by  majority  vote  in  nationwide  ballot- 
ing. The  term  of  office  is  five  years,  and  no  president  may  serve 
more  than  two  consecutive  terms.  Real  power  is  vested  in  the  office 
of  the  president,  who  is  not  merely  a  symbol  of  national  unity,  but 
rather  the  chief  of  state.  In  times  of  national  crisis,  presidents  can 
make  or  unmake  governments,  and  even  in  situations  when,  for 
example,  the  government  is  weak  and  no  party  has  a  majority,  they 
can  exercise  considerable  influence  behind  the  scenes. 

According  to  the  terms  of  the  1989  revised  edition  of  the  consti- 
tution, the  president's  powers  and  duties  include  acting  as  supreme 
commander  of  the  armed  forces,  promulgating  laws,  declaring  a 
state  of  siege,  granting  pardons,  submitting  legislation  to  the  Con- 
stitutional Court  for  approval,  making  many  high  appointments, 
and,  when  needed,  removing  high  officials  from  their  posts.  The 
president  also  calls  elections,  convenes  special  sessions  of  the  As- 
sembly of  the  Republic,  dissolves  this  body  in  accordance  with  law, 
and  appoints  the  prime  minister. 

The  1982  amendments  to  the  constitution  reduced  the  powers 
of  the  presidency  somewhat,  mainly  by  specifying  the  periods  in 
which  presidents  may  not  dissolve  the  assembly  (during  the  first 
six  months  after  the  assembly's  election,  in  the  last  six  months  of 
a  president's  term,  and  during  a  state  of  siege  or  an  emergency) 
and  stipulating  when  they  may  dismiss  a  government  ("only  when 
this  becomes  necessary  to  secure  the  regular  functioning  of  the 
democratic  institutions").  The  presidential  veto  power  was  reduced 
in  that  a  simple  majority  in  the  assembly  can  override  presidential 
vetoes.  The  power  of  pocket  veto  was  also  abolished.  According 
to  the  1982  amendments,  the  president  must  either  accept  legisla- 
tion or  reject  it. 

The  presidency  is  intended  for  a  national  figure  of  great  pres- 
tige and  ideally  one  above  partisan  politics.  As  of  the  early  1990s, 
Portugal  had  had  only  two  presidents  since  the  constitution  was 
promulgated  in  1976.  General  Eanes  was  elected  in  1976  and  eas- 
ily reelected  to  a  second  term  in  1980.  In  1986  PS  leader  Soares 
was  elected  to  the  presidency,  but  only  in  the  runoff  election  after 
he  had  gained  the  support  of  the  PCP  and  the  PSD.  In  January 
1991,  he  easily  won  reelection  for  a  second  term. 

These  two  men  were  genuinely  popular  presidents  because  of 
their  statesmanlike  qualities  and  their  obvious  devotion  to  their 


184 


Government  and  Politics 


country's  welfare.  General  Eanes  was  widely  regarded  as  the  man 
who  made  possible  Portugal's  transition  to  centrist  democracy  af- 
ter the  tumult  of  the  revolution.  He  was  politically  moderate  and 
a  conciliator  who  remained  apart  from  the  country's  contending 
factions.  In  Portugal's  democratic  transition,  Soares  was  also  seen 
as  a  heroic  figure  who  had  fought  tenaciously,  first  against  the  Sala- 
zar  regime,  enduring  both  imprisonment  and  exile,  and  later  against 
Communist  rule.  He  was  also  the  country's  first  civilian  president 
since  the  First  Republic. 

The  Council  of  State 

The  Council  of  State,  which  in  the  1982  constitutional  reform 
replaced  the  Council  of  the  Revolution,  functions  as  a  high-level 
advisory  body  to  the  president.  Its  members  consist  of  the  presi- 
dent of  the  Assembly  of  the  Republic,  the  prime  minister,  the  presi- 
dent of  the  Constitutional  Court,  the  ombudsman,  the  chairpersons 
of  the  regional  governments,  former  presidents,  five  citizens  ap- 
pointed by  the  president,  and  five  persons  elected  by  the  Assem- 
bly of  the  Republic. 

The  council  is  a  broadly  consultative  group  with  deep  roots  in 
Portuguese  history.  It  is  a  kind  of  throwback  to  an  earlier  Portuguese 
concept  of  corporative,  regional,  or  functional  representation. 
However,  it  has  no  executive  power  and  in  recent  times  has  been 
called  into  its  advisory  capacity  only  rarely.  As  a  result,  member- 
ship on  it  has  come  to  be  mainly  honorary. 

The  Prime  Minister 

The  prime  minister  of  Portugal  heads  the  government  and 
manages  the  nation's  affairs  on  a  daily  basis.  The  prime  minister 
chooses  or  approves  cabinet  ministers  and  directs  or  coordinates 
their  actions.  The  office  thus  differs  from  that  in  Britain,  where 
the  prime  minister  is  the  first  among  equals.  Moreover,  the  entire 
cabinet  bears  responsibility  for  its  actions,  not  the  prime  minister 
alone.  The  prime  minister  also  directs  the  operations  of  the  armed 
forces,  although  the  president  is  formally  the  commander  in  chief. 
In  other  matters  as  well,  the  prime  minister  is  autonomous,  and 
the  president  has  no  right  to  direct  the  prime  minister's  policies. 

Unlike  the  president,  the  prime  minister  is  elected  indirectly. 
As  in  other  parliamentary  systems,  the  prime  minister  is  the  lead- 
er of  the  largest  party  in  the  parliament  or  the  head  of  a  coalition 
of  parties.  The  prime  minister's  term  may  last  for  up  to  four  years, 
through  an  entire  legislative  period,  after  which  time  new  elections 
are  held.  However,  the  prime  minister  may  call  earlier  elections. 
The  prime  minister  may  ask  for  a  vote  of  confidence  from  the 


185 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

parliament,  but  he  can  also  be  ousted  by  a  vote  of  no  confidence 
or  through  a  leadership  change  in  his  own  party.  If  a  prime  minister 
proves  incompetent,  loses  support,  or  fails  to  provide  needed  na- 
tional direction,  the  president  may  also  request  that  a  new  govern- 
ment be  formed. 

In  the  ten  years  following  the  Revolution  of  1974,  Portugal  was 
governed  by  nearly  a  dozen  weak  and  short-lived  governments; 
the  number  of  prime  ministers  was  not  large,  however,  because 
all  but  two  of  them  headed  more  than  one  cabinet.  After  mid- 1985, 
the  political  system  attained  a  greater  stability  when  Anibal  Cava- 
co  Silva,  head  of  the  Social  Democrat  Party  (Partido  Social  - 
Democrata — PSD),  formed  first  a  minority  government  and  then 
a  majority  government  that  lasted  the  entire  1987-91  legislative 
period.  After  his  party  won  50.4  percent  of  the  vote  in  the  1991 
national  elections,  Cavaco  Silva  formed  another  government  that 
enjoyed  an  absolute  parliamentary  majority. 

The  Council  of  Ministers 

The  Council  of  Ministers,  or  cabinet,  is  the  state's  highest  ex- 
ecutive institution.  The  council  consists  of  the  prime  minister  and 
fifteen  to  eighteen  cabinet  ministers.  Most  ministers  come  from 
the  parliament,  but  they  are  not  required  to  do  so.  In  coalition 
cabinets,  the  majority  of  ministers  usually  belongs  to  the  coalition's 
largest  party,  that  of  the  prime  minister,  and  the  remaining 
ministers  come  from  other  coalition  parties.  Once  in  the  cabinet, 
a  member  of  parliament  has  to  relinquish,  at  least  temporarily, 
his  or  her  seat  in  that  body. 

The  Council  of  Ministers  has  both  administrative  and  policy- 
making functions,  is  responsible  for  national  security  and  defense 
affairs,  and  is  in  charge  of  the  day-to-day  implementation  of  govern- 
ment policy.  In  addition,  Portugal's  cabinet  has  extensive  legisla- 
tive powers  by  virtue  of  its  power  to  pass  decree-laws  within  areas 
of  its  responsibility.  It  can  also  be  granted  the  right  by  the  Assem- 
bly of  the  Republic  to  pass  legislation  in  areas  of  responsibility  usual- 
ly reserved  to  parliament,  its  "relatively  reserved  legislative 
powers."  Because  getting  a  bill  through  the  assembly  was  often 
a  slow  process,  the  Council  of  Ministers  often  made  use  of  this  right. 
The  council  is  responsible  both  individually  and  collectively  for  its 
actions,  first  to  the  prime  minister  and  ultimately  to  the  parliament. 

In  Portugal,  the  minister  with  the  greatest  power  is  the  minister 
of  finance,  who  prepares  the  budget  and  oversees  the  finances  of 
the  other  ministries.  Ministers  are  assisted  by  politically  appointed 
secretaries  of  state,  who  vacate  their  positions  when  their  minis- 
ters leave  the  council.  As  allowed  by  Article  203  of  the  1989  revised 


186 


Assembly  of  the  Republic,  Lisbon 
Courtesy  Andrea  Matles  Savada 

constitution,  a  number  of  ministers  sometimes  meet  together  and 
form  what  the  constitution  terms  "councils  of  specialized  minis- 
ters" to  work  on  matters  of  mutual  concern.  They  can  call  on  their 
secretaries  of  state  and  civil  servants  for  assistance  and  can  submit 
the  results  of  their  collaboration  to  the  entire  cabinet  for  review. 

Additional  bodies  were  later  created  to  assist  individual  ministers 
on  the  council  as  a  whole.  In  1984  the  Office  of  Techno-Legislative 
Support,  under  the  minister  of  justice,  was  formed  to  assist  the  coun- 
cil in  drafting  legislation.  A  number  of  superior  councils  assist 
ministers  with  studies  and  planning.  Examples  of  this  kind  of  body 
are  the  Superior  Council  of  Finance  and  the  National  Board  of  Edu- 
cation. In  addition  to  advising  ministers,  these  bodies  meet  with 
groups  affected  by  government  decisions. 

The  Assembly  of  the  Republic 

According  to  the  Portuguese  constitution,  the  country's  unicameral 
parliament,  the  Assembly  of  the  Republic,  "is  the  representative 
assembly  of  all  Portuguese  citizens."  The  constitution  names  the 
assembly  as  one  of  the  country's  organs  of  supreme  authority  and, 
in  Article  114  of  the  1989  revised  constitution,  charges  it  to  exer- 
cise its  powers  both  separately  and  interdependently  with  the  presi- 
dent, the  government,  and  the  courts. 


187 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


The  assembly's  power  derives  from  its  power  to  dismiss  a  govern- 
ment through  a  vote  of  no  confidence,  to  impeach  the  president, 
to  change  the  country's  laws,  and  to  amend  the  constitution.  In 
addition  to  these  key  powers,  the  constitution  grants  to  the  Assembly 
of  the  Republic  extensive  legislative  powers  and  substantial  con- 
trol over  the  budget,  the  right  to  authorize  the  government  to  raise 
taxes  and  grant  loans,  the  power  to  ratify  treaties  and  other  kinds 
of  international  agreements,  and  the  duty  to  approve  or  reject  de- 
cisions by  the  president  of  the  republic  to  declare  war  and  make 
peace.  The  assembly  also  appoints  many  members  of  important 
state  institutions,  such  as  ten  of  the  thirteen  members  of  the  Con- 
stitutional Court  and  seven  of  the  sixteen  members  of  the  Higher 
Council  of  the  Bench. 

The  constitution  requires  the  assembly  to  quickly  review  and 
approve  an  incoming  government's  program.  Parliamentary  rules 
allow  the  assembly  to  call  for  committees  of  inquiry  to  examine 
the  government's  actions.  Political  opposition  represented  in  the 
assembly  has  the  power  to  review  the  cabinet's  actions,  even  though 
it  is  unlikely  that  the  actions  can  be  reversed.  For  example,  as  few 
as  ten  members  can  request  that  the  assembly  ratify  the  govern- 
ment's decree-laws  not  belonging  to  the  cabinet's  exclusive  juris- 
diction. As  little  as  one-fifth  of  the  assembly  can  call  for  a  motion 
of  censure,  although  an  absolute  majority  of  the  assembly  is  re- 
quired to  sustain  the  censure.  Party  groups  can  also  call  for  inter- 
pellations that  require  debates  about  specific  government  policies. 

The  assembly  consisted  at  first  of  250  members,  but  the  con- 
stitutional reforms  of  1989  reduced  its  number  to  between  230  and 
235.  Members  are  elected  by  popular  vote  for  legislative  terms  of 
four  years  from  the  country's  constituencies  (eighteen  in  mainland 
Portugal,  one  each  for  the  autonomous  regions  of  the  Azores 
(Acores)  and  Madeira,  one  for  Portuguese  living  in  Western  Eu- 
rope, and  one  for  those  living  in  the  rest  of  the  world).  The  num- 
ber of  voters  registered  in  a  constituency  determines  the  number 
of  its  members  in  the  assembly.  Constituencies  vary  greatly  in  size. 
As  of  the  early  1990s,  as  many  as  three  dozen  representatives  came 
from  the  Lisbon  district  and  as  few  as  three  from  some  inland  dis- 
tricts. The  autonomous  regions  of  the  Azores  and  Madeira  each 
sent  five  members  to  the  assembly. 

According  to  the  constitution,  members  of  the  assembly  represent 
the  entire  country,  not  the  constituency  from  which  they  are  elected. 
This  directive  was  reinforced  hi  practice  by  the  strong  role  of  po- 
litical parties  in  regard  to  members  of  the  assembly.  As  of  the  early 
1990s,  party  leadership,  for  example,  determined  in  which  areas 
candidates  were  to  run  for  office,  thus  often  weakening  members' 


188 


Government  and  Politics 


ties  to  their  constituencies.  Moreover,  members  of  the  assembly 
were  expected  to  vote  with  their  party  and  to  work  within  parliamen- 
tary groups  based  on  party  membership.  Party  discipline  was 
strong,  and  insubordinate  members  could  be  coerced  through  a 
variety  of  means.  A  further  obstacle  to  members'  independence 
was  that  their  bills  first  had  to  be  submitted  to  the  parliamentary 
groups,  and  it  was  these  group  leaders  who  set  the  assembly's  agen- 
da. The  leader  of  the  assembly,  its  president,  was  selected  from 
the  group  leaders. 

Assembly  sessions  are  scheduled  to  run  from  mid-October  to  mid- 
June,  but  often  extend  beyond  this  period  because  of  uncomplet- 
ed business.  When  the  body  is  not  in  session,  it  is  represented  by 
its  Standing  Committee,  headed  by  the  president  of  the  as- 
sembly and  composed  of  assembly  members  chosen  to  reflect  the 
larger  body's  political  composition.  The  committee  monitors  the 
president  and  the  government  and  can  call  for  meetings  of  the  en- 
tire assembly  if  necessary. 

Much  of  the  assembly's  work  is  done  in  committees,  both  per- 
manent and  ad  hoc.  Committee  membership  is  to  reflect  the  as- 
sembly party  makeup,  and  members  are  usually  not  allowed  to  serve 
on  more  than  two  committees.  The  committees  examine  legisla- 
tive proposals,  most  of  which  come  from  the  government  rather 
than  from  the  assembly  itself  after  a  first  reading  in  the  assembly. 
Appropriate  witnesses  and  expert  testimony  can  be  called;  for  cer- 
tain types  of  legislation,  labor  legislation  for  example,  concerned 
parties  have  to  be  heard.  Once  a  committee  approves  a  bill,  the 
bill  can  receive  a  second  reading  and  a  plenary  vote. 

The  Portuguese  parliament  did  not  enjoy  much  prestige  initially. 
Its  efficacy  was  impeded  by  the  absence  of  adequate  resources  and 
staff  and  the  lack  of  an  efficient  infrastructure  of  committees  and 
subcommittees.  This  institutional  inadequacy  buttressed  the  tradi- 
tional lack  of  respect  the  Portuguese  felt  for  their  governing  insti- 
tutions. To  the  public,  the  assembly  personified  democracy's  defects 
in  that  it  was  inefficient,  quarrelsome,  splintered,  and  patronage- 
dominated.  Its  members  were  frequently  seen  as  putting  partisan 
interests  ahead  of  the  interests  of  the  nation  or  of  using  their 
parliamentary  positions  to  enhance  their  private  careers  and  for- 
tunes. In  newspaper  editorials  and  cartoons,  parliament  members 
were  often  portrayed  as  buffoonish,  silly,  and  irrelevant.  Polls  in 
1978  and  1984  found  that  the  Portuguese  saw  parliament  as  less 
important  than  the  president,  the  prime  minister,  or  the  cabinet. 
It  was  thus  not  surprising  that  at  times  Portuguese  democracy 
seemed  insufficiently  rooted.  Yet,  democracy  had  survived  the  un- 
stable period  after  the  revolution,  and,  despite  all  its  problems,  many 


189 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Portuguese  had  come  to  see  the  Assembly  of  the  Republic  as 
indispensable  to  its  preservation.  In  addition,  reforms  of  the  parlia- 
ment's organization  and  practices,  as  well  as  increased  numbers 
of  skilled  and  experienced  staffers,  had  improved  the  body's  effi- 
ciency. 

The  Judiciary 

The  constitution  provides  for  the  Constitutional  Court;  the 
Supreme  Court  of  Justice  and  the  Supreme  Administrative  Court, 
both  of  which  have  subordinate  courts;  and  a  variety  of  special 
courts,  including  a  military  court  system.  It  states  that  the  courts 
are  the  "organs  of  supreme  authority  competent  to  administer 
justice  in  the  name  of  the  people."  The  courts  are  also  designated 
as  "independent  and  subject  only  to  the  law." 

The  Constitutional  Court,  called  into  existence  by  the  constitu- 
tional reform  of  1982,  judges  whether  legislative  acts  are  legal  and 
constitutional.  Among  other  duties,  this  court  also  ascertains  the 
physical  ability  of  the  president  to  carry  out  presidential  functions 
and  examines  international  agreements  for  their  constitutionality. 
Ten  of  its  thirteen  members  are  chosen  by  the  Assembly  of  the 
Republic. 

The  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  is  designated  the  "highest  court 
of  law,"  but  "without  prejudice  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Constitu- 
tional Court,"  and  heads  the  court  system  that  deals  with  civil  and 
criminal  cases.  The  courts  of  first  instance  (the  first  courts  to  try 
a  case)  are  the  municipal  and  district  courts;  the  courts  of  second 
instance  are,  as  a  rule,  courts  of  appeal.  As  of  the  early  1990s,  there 
were  four  of  these  latter  courts.  The  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  may 
serve  as  a  court  of  first  instance  in  some  cases  and  as  an  appeals 
court  in  others. 

The  Supreme  Court  of  Administration  examines  the  fiscal  and 
administrative  conduct  of  government  institutions.  It  is  not  con- 
cerned with  the  state's  political  decisions  or  legislation.  One  sec- 
tion of  this  court  deals  with  administrative  disputes;  below  it  are 
three  courts  of  first  instance.  Another  section  deals  with  tax  dis- 
putes and  is  supported  by  courts  of  first  and  second  instance.  In 
addition  to  these  courts,  there  is  a  Court  of  Audit  situated  in  the 
Ministry  of  Finance. 

Overseeing  the  nominations,  training,  promotions,  transfers,  and 
professional  conduct  of  Portugal's  judges  are  the  Higher  Council 
of  the  Bench  and  the  Superior  Council  of  the  Administrative  and 
Fiscal  Courts.  These  bodies  have  the  right  to  discipline  judges  whose 
conduct  does  not  comply  with  the  law.  Also  looking  after  the  rights 
of  the  citizens  is  the  ombudsman,  elected  by  the  Assembly  of  the 


190 


Government  and  Politics 


Republic  for  a  four-year  term.  In  the  early  1990s,  this  official 
received  some  3,000  complaints  a  year  from  Portuguese  who  felt 
they  had  been  improperly  dealt  with  by  state  institutions. 

The  Portuguese  legal  and  judicial  system  is  based  on  Roman 
civil  law  and  was  heavily  influenced  by  the  French  system.  It  differs 
from  the  United  States  or  British  legal  systems  in  that  a  complete 
body  of  law  is  found  in  the  codes.  As  a  result,  judicial  reasoning 
is  deductive,  and  prior  cases  or  precedent  play  little  role.  A  judge 
is  therefore  seen  mainly  as  a  civil  servant  whose  role  is  to  discover 
and  apply  the  appropriate  law  from  the  codes,  not  to  interpret  it 
or  to  apply  new  sociological  findings.  Hence,  judges  enjoy  less  pres- 
tige than  in  a  system  based  on  common  law.  In  addition,  law  is 
seen  as  more  fixed  and  immutable  than  in  the  United  States,  al- 
though over  time  it  does  change.  The  historically  authoritarian  na- 
ture of  Portugal's  system  of  government  is  often  attributed  to  this 
centralized  and  hierarchical  legal  system. 

Portugal's  legal  system  is  considered  relatively  fair  and  impar- 
tial. During  the  Salazar  regime,  the  courts  were  loyal  servants  of 
the  New  State,  and  high  officials  of  the  regime  were  all  but  im- 
mune from  judicial  proceedings.  After  the  Revolution  of  1974, 
Salazar-appointed  judges  were  largely  removed  in  favor  of  revolu- 
tionary ones,  and  certain  groups — such  as  workers  and  peasants — 
were  often  favored  over  owners  and  employers  before  the  law.  With 
time,  however,  the  courts  have  come  to  function  with  greater  im- 
partiality. Most  criticism  centers  on  the  fact  that  the  courts  are  slow 
and  overburdened.  Long  periods  of  time  are  often  required  for  the 
legal  system  to  deal  with  even  routine  matters,  nor  have  the  courts 
adequately  kept  pace  with  new  judicial  issues,  such  as  drugs  and 
white-collar  crime. 

Civil  Service 

According  to  Article  266  of  the  revised  constitution,  public  ad- 
ministrative authorities  shall  "seek  to  promote  the  public  interest, 
while  observing  those  rights  and  interests  of  citizens  that  are  pro- 
tected by  law. "  Furthermore,  the  next  article  states  that  the  struc- 
ture of  public  administration  shall  be  such  as  to  avoid  bureaucracy, 
to  bring  the  state's  services  close  to  the  people,  and  to  involve  the 
people  in  decision  making.  Citizens  are  entitled  to  be  informed  of 
proceedings  in  which  they  are  directly  concerned  and  of  decisions 
affecting  them. 

These  provisions  were  a  reaction  to  Portuguese  administrative 
traditions  and  to  the  abuses  and  favoritism  of  the  Salazar  era.  As 
of  the  early  1990s,  however,  opinions  remained  divided  about 
whether  the  Portuguese  state  was  less  "bureaucratic"  than  it  had 


191 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


been  in  the  past.  The  1970s  saw  a  tremendous  increase  in  the  num- 
ber of  persons  employed  by  central  and  local  governments  (from 
205,000  in  1968  to  550,000  in  1986)  and  the  issuance  of  many  regu- 
lations that  slowed  public  administration.  To  counter  these  trends, 
numerous  reforms  were  enacted  in  the  1980s  to  streamline  govern- 
ment services  and  make  public  employees  more  responsive  to  the 
public's  needs.  For  example,  civil  servants  were  encouraged  to  see 
themselves  as  servants  of  the  public  rather  than  as  wielders  of  state 
power.  Moreover,  many  trivial  but  time-consuming  and  otherwise 
onerous  bureaucratic  regulations  were  revoked.  An  example  of  this 
kind  of  reform  was  that  photocopies  rather  than  original  documents 
could  be  used  when  dealing  with  government  offices.  Portugal's 
entry  into  the  EC  was  also  forcing  a  modernization  of  the  public 
sector. 

Portugal's  public  employees  are  classified  as  either  public  func- 
tionaries, those  employed  by  the  national  government,  or  as  ad- 
ministrative functionaries,  those  employed  by  local  authorities.  In 
1986  national  government  employees  accounted  for  83  percent  of 
government  employees.  Some  70  percent  of  these  government  work- 
ers were  employed  by  the  Ministry  of  Education  and  Culture  and 
the  Ministry  of  Health.  As  part  of  a  concerted  effort  to  reduce  Por- 
tugal's traditional  centralization  of  government,  Lisbon's  share  of 
public  employees  of  all  kinds  was  reduced  from  52.7  percent  in 
1978  to  44  percent  in  1986. 

The  civil  service's  cumbersome  and  unfair  classification  and  pay 
structures  were  also  reformed  during  the  1980s.  The  pay  of  public 
employees  came  to  be  taxed  more  than  it  had  been  in  the  past. 
Career  structures  were  simplified.  Care  was  taken,  however,  that 
no  public  employee  receive  less  pay  than  under  the  old  system. 

The  recruitment  of  new  public  employees  is  also  newly  regu- 
lated. Candidates  vie  for  state  positions  in  public  competitions. 
Juries  select  candidates  in  a  way  that  guarantees  fairness.  Public 
employees  are  also  allowed  to  be  members  of  the  main  Portuguese 
labor  unions. 

Local  Government 

Portugal  has  long  been  a  centralized  political  system  not  only 
in  terms  of  its  legal  system,  but  also  in  terms  of  its  system  of  pub- 
lic administration.  The  pattern,  like  the  legal  system,  derives  from 
Roman  law  and  the  French  Napoleonic  Code.  The  result  was  that 
Portugal's  central  authorities  kept  most  powers  for  themselves  and 
administered  the  country  from  Lisbon.  Local  government  remained 
underdeveloped  and  passive. 


192 


Government  and  Politics 


The  framers  of  the  constitution  of  1976  sought  to  change  this 
pattern  of  centralization.  Article  238  of  the  1989  revised  constitu- 
tion states  that  "local  authorities  on  the  mainland  shall  be  the  par- 
ishes, municipal  authorities  and  the  administrative  regions."  A  plan 
for  dividing  Portugal  into  seven  administrative  regions  (five  based 
on  the  country's  major  river  basins,  and  one  each  for  the  Porto 
and  Lisbon  metropolitan  areas)  had  been  worked  out  in  the  mid- 
1970s,  but  in  the  early  1990s  its  implementation  had  not  yet  been 
effected.  Fear  of  officials  in  the  capital  that  they  would  lose  power 
to  local  authorities  was  seen  as  a  principal  reason  for  this  delay. 

Article  291  of  the  revised  constitution  of  1989  states  that  until 
the  administrative  regions  have  been  created,  the  highest  level  of 
subnational  government  will  be  the  mainland's  eighteen  districts, 
administrative  divisions  established  in  the  nineteenth  century.  In 
the  early  1990s,  these  eighteen  districts  (each  bearing  the  name 
of  its  capital)  constituted  the  layer  of  government  between  the  na- 
tional government  and  local  government.  Portugal  is  not  a  federal 
state,  and  the  districts  have  no  legislative  powers.  District  officials 
conduct  elections,  maintain  public  order,  and  exercise  what  the 
Portuguese  term  "administrative  tutelage"  by  monitoring  the  per- 
formance of  local  government.  Each  district  is  directed  by  a  civil 
governor,  who  is  a  political  appointee. 

The  districts  do  not  function  as  administrative  bodies.  As  a  result, 
most  of  the  national  government's  activities  are  carried  out  by  the 
ministries  within  territorial  divisions  that  they  establish  and  that 
do  not  necessarily  correspond  with  those  of  the  districts.  The  dis- 
trict governor  is  not  seen  as  occupying  a  higher  position  than  min- 
isterial officials. 

Because  the  administrative  regions  envisioned  in  the  constitu- 
tion had  not  been  established  as  of  the  early  1990s,  Portugal's  lo- 
cal government  at  that  time  consisted  of  305  municipalities,  further 
subdivided  into  about  4,000  parishes.  Despite  its  name,  a  parish 
has  no  ecclesiastical  functions  but  merely  provides  social  assistance 
and  maintains  voter  registration  lists.  An  elected  parish  assembly 
meets  four  times  a  year  and  chooses  the  parish  board,  which  serves 
as  the  parish's  government.  The  board  draws  up  the  parish's  bud- 
get, executes  the  parish  assembly's  laws,  and  manages  its  public 
business.  The  size  of  these  bodies  is  determined  by  the  population 
of  the  parish. 

Municipalities,  like  parishes,  are  classified  as  urban  or  rural, 
except  for  those  of  Lisbon  and  Porto,  which  are  classified  as  met- 
ropolitan areas.  A  municipality  is  governed  by  a  municipal  as- 
sembly, half  of  whose  members  are  elected  every  four  years  and 
half  of  whom  are  the  presidents  of  parish  boards  operating  within 


193 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

the  municipality.  A  municipal  assembly  meets  five  times  a  year, 
and  its  members  are  unpaid.  A  municipality's  executive  body  is 
the  municipal  chamber.  Its  members  (aldermen)  are  elected,  serve 
year-round,  and  are  paid.  The  chamber  is  headed  by  a  president 
(mayor).  The  president  of  a  municipal  chamber  is  the  candidate 
for  that  body  who  received  the  most  votes.  Each  chamber  has  a 
council,  composed  of  representatives  from  a  variety  of  organiza- 
tions, which  serves  as  a  consultative  body.  The  size  of  these  munici- 
pal bodies  is  determined  by  the  number  of  registered  voters  within 
a  municipality. 

The  many  tasks  managed  by  a  municipality  are  carried  out 
both  by  city  employees  and  private  firms  considered  part  of  the 
municipal  government.  Funds  to  pay  for  these  tasks  come  both  from 
the  national  government  and  local  sources  (taxes,  licensing  fees, 
etc).  The  constitution  stipulates  that  these  local  authorities  should 
be  financially  independent,  and  plans  exist  to  establish  by  law 
a  system  of  local  finance  that  will  arrange  the  "fair  apportion- 
ment" of  public  funds  between  the  state  and  local  authorities.  As 
of  the  early  1990s,  however,  over  90  percent  of  the  funds  used  by 
local  government  were  still  national  in  origin.  In  addition,  the  na- 
tional government  was  obliged  to  see  that  these  funds  were  spent 
properly,  thereby  reducing  even  further  the  independence  of  local 
authorities. 

Autonomous  Regions  and  Macau 

The  archipelagoes  of  the  Azores  and  Madeira  had  long  enjoyed 
a  substantial  degree  of  administrative  autonomy  when  in  1976  the 
new  constitution  established  them  as  autonomous  political  regions. 
According  to  the  constitution,  political  autonomy  was  granted  in 
response  to  the  islands'  geographical,  economic,  social,  and  cul- 
tural characteristics  and  because  of  "the  historic  aspirations  of  the 
peoples  of  the  islands  to  autonomy."  This  autonomy,  however, 
"shall  in  no  way  affect  the  [Portuguese]  State's  full  sovereignty 
and  shall  be  exercised  within  the  limits  of  the  Constitution." 

The  constitution  grants  the  autonomous  regions  a  number  of 
powers,  among  them  the  power  to  legislate  in  areas  relating  spe- 
cifically to  them,  execute  laws,  tax,  supervise  local  public  institu- 
tions, and  participate  in  drafting  international  agreements  that  affect 
them.  This  last  provision  has  meant  that  Azorean  officials  have 
participated  in  talks  between  the  United  States  and  Portugal  about 
military  bases  located  on  their  islands. 

The  national  government  is  represented  by  the  minister  of  the 
republic,  who  functions  in  much  the  same  manner  as  the  president 


194 


Government  and  Politics 


of  the  republic  does  on  the  mainland.  The  minister  has  veto  pow- 
ers similar  to  those  of  the  president.  If  the  autonomous  regions' 
governing  organs  have  acted  contrary  to  the  dictates  of  the  consti- 
tution, they  may  be  dissolved  by  the  president  of  the  republic. 

Each  autonomous  region  has  a  legislative  assembly  elected  for 
four-year  terms.  The  d'Hondt  method  (see  Glossary)  is  used  to 
determine  voting  results.  A  president  heads  a  regional  government 
composed  of  regional  secretaries,  which  reflects  the  party  compo- 
sition of  the  regional  assembly.  This  government  is  politically 
responsible  to  the  regional  assembly  in  the  same  manner  that  the 
national  government  is  responsible  to  the  Assembly  of  the  Republic. 

Among  other  powers,  the  regional  assembly  has  the  right  to  in- 
itiate legislation,  review  the  regional  government's  budget,  and  vote 
motions  of  censure.  A  regional  government  has  powers  similar  to 
those  of  the  national  government,  and  its  members  direct  a  num- 
ber of  regional  secretariats  that  correspond  to  the  mainland's  minis- 
tries. Local  government  in  the  autonomous  regions  corresponds 
to  the  mainland's  municipalities  and  parishes. 

Macau  consists  of  a  peninsula  attached  to  the  Chinese  mainland 
and  two  islands  with  a  total  area  of  about  seventeen  square  kilo- 
meters. In  1987  its  population  is  estimated  at  435,000  persons. 
Portuguese  explorers  first  reached  Macau  in  the  early  sixteenth  cen- 
tury; it  became  a  Portuguese  colony  in  1557.  According  to  an  agree- 
ment in  1987  between  Portugal  and  China,  Macau  is  to  become 
a  "special  administrative  region"  of  China  on  January  20,  1999. 
Even  after  this  date,  however,  Macau  will  be  allowed  to  maintain 
its  capitalist  economy,  and  Portuguese  will  remain  its  official  lan- 
guage. Until  1999  Macau  will  remain  a  Special  Territory  of  Portu- 
gal. Although  the  territory's  highest  executive  official  is  a  governor 
appointed  by  the  president  of  Portugal,  Macau  enjoys  a  substantial 
degree  of  autonomy  and  has  its  own  legislative  assembly. 

The  Electoral  System 

The  constitution  states  that  the  people  exercise  political  power 
through  universal,  equal,  direct,  secret,  and  periodic  elections.  All 
citizens  over  the  age  of  eighteen  have  the  right  to  vote,  and  those 
over  the  age  of  twenty-one  have  the  right  to  hold  public  office,  un- 
der conditions  of  equality  and  freedom.  Portuguese  citizens  are 
obliged  to  register  to  vote,  but  voting  itself  is  voluntary.  Freedom 
of  association  is  guaranteed  and  is  defined  to  include  the  right  to 
establish  or  join  political  parties  and  "through  them  to  work 
democratically  to  give  form  to  the  will  of  the  people  and  to  organize 
political  power." 


195 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Elections  for  the  president's  term  of  five  years  in  Portugal's  semi- 
presidential  system  are  by  popular  vote.  If  a  candidate  fails  to  receive 
an  absolute  majority  on  the  first  ballot,  a  runoff  election  between 
the  two  leading  candidates  is  to  be  held  within  two  weeks. 

Elections  for  the  four-year  legislative  terms  of  the  Assembly  of 
the  Republic  are  by  proportional  representation  in  each  constituen- 
cy. Portugal  uses  the  d'Hondt  method  of  proportional  represen- 
tation, which  is  based  on  the  highest  average  method  and  favors 
large  parties  by  awarding  them  a  greater  percentage  of  assembly 
seats  than  the  percentage  of  votes  they  won.  Small  parties  are  pro- 
tected in  that  there  is  no  minimum  percentage  of  votes  they  must 
receive  to  gain  a  seat  in  the  assembly.  Nonetheless,  unless  these 
parties  are  members  of  a  coalition,  they  rarely  win  a  seat  in  the 
assembly.  The  d'Hondt  method  was  adopted  because  it  leads  to 
stronger,  more  stable  governments  in  countries  that  are  deeply 
divided  and  have  multiple  parties. 

Municipal  elections,  which  serve  as  a  barometer  of  public  opin- 
ion on  the  national  government,  are  held  every  four  years.  In  con- 
trast to  national  elections,  this  schedule  is  maintained  because  local 
governments  do  not  fall.  The  national  parties  participate  in  these 
elections. 

Political  Dynamics 

In  the  early  1990s,  Portuguese  politics  operated  at  several  differ- 
ent levels.  The  constitution  and  the  laws  constituted  the  first  level. 
This  formal  structure  of  government  often  appears  rigid,  legal- 
istic, and  impenetrable,  especially  to  outsiders.  Yet,  these  legal 
and  constitutional  structures  are  more  obvious  and  more  easily 
understood  than  the  other  levels  of  the  Portuguese  system  of  gov- 
ernment. 

The  second  level  consists  of  political  parties  and  interest  groups. 
Because  of  its  legalistic  tradition,  a  strict  separation  exists  in  Por- 
tugal between  the  formal  governmental  system  and  the  sphere 
of  political  parties  and  interest  groups.  Portuguese  tend  to  respect 
their  formal  system  of  government  but  to  denigrate  political  par- 
ties and  interest  groups.  As  Portuguese  democracy  flourished 
through  the  1980s,  however,  political  parties  and  interest  groups 
gained  greater  acceptance  as  an  integral  part  of  the  system  of  gov- 
ernment. 

Unlike  these  first  two  levels,  the  third  level  of  Portuguese  poli- 
tics is  largely  invisible  and  is  the  most  difficult  for  outsiders  to 
penetrate  and  comprehend.  This  level  consists  of  the  informal  con- 
nections, family  relationships,  interpersonal  ties,  kinships,  and 


196 


Government  and  Politics 


patronage  networks  that  are  so  much  the  heart  of  the  Portuguese 
political  system.  Seldom  spoken  of  or  described  by  the  Portuguese, 
these  relationships  enable  the  Portuguese  system  to  function  and 
to  cut  through  vast  layers  of  red  tape. 

Many  of  the  informal  networks  that  had  long  steered  Portuguese 
affairs  were  severely  disrupted  by  the  Revolution  of  1974  when 
many  families  and  extended  clans  lost  their  property  and  their 
positions.  However,  many  of  these  networks  were  rebuilt  in  sub- 
sequent years,  and  others  were  formed  by  the  forging  of  new  po- 
litical and  economic  relationships.  Knowledge  of  this  third  level 
of  Portuguese  politics  is  crucial  for  a  full  understanding  of  the  for- 
mal and  the  informal  dynamics  within  the  Portuguese  political 
system. 

Political  Parties 

As  Portugal  became  democratic  after  1974,  it  also  developed  a 
political  party  system  with  a  full  spectrum  of  parties  that  ranged 
from  the  far  left  to  the  far  right.  During  the  Salazar-Caetano  re- 
gime, only  one  party  was  legal,  the  National  Union  (Uniao 
Nacional — UN),  later  renamed  the  National  Popular  Action  (Ac- 
cao  Nacional  Popular — ANP).  The  UN/ANP  was  dissolved  in  the 
first  weeks  of  the  revolution,  and  a  great  variety  of  new  parties  soon 
replaced  it. 

Some  political  parties  emerged  very  quickly  because  they  already 
existed  in  preliminary  form.  Several  factions  of  the  old  UN/ANP, 
for  example,  became  separate  political  parties  after  the  revolu- 
tion. The  socialists  and,  to  a  far  greater  extent,  the  Communists 
already  had  underground  groups  operating  in  Portugal,  as  well 
as  organizations  in  exile.  Finally,  some  opposition  elements  had 
formed  "study  groups"  that  served  as  the  basis  of  later  political 
parties. 

The  party  system  increased  in  importance  during  the  Second 
Republic.  Large,  strong  parties  were  fostered  under  the  d'Hondt 
method  of  proportional  representation,  and  parties  soon  began  to 
receive  state  subsidies.  The  parties'  strength  was  also  bolstered  by 
their  exclusive  right  to  nominate  political  candidates  and  by  the 
strict  party  discipline  they  enforced  on  successful  candidates  once 
they  entered  parliament.  By  the  beginning  of  the  early  1990s,  only 
four  parties  regularly  won  seats  in  the  parliament,  and  two  were 
so  much  stronger  than  the  others  that  Portugal  seemed  on  the  way 
to  an  essentially  two-party  system. 

Far  Left 

Far-left  groups,  most  importantly  the  Portuguese  Democratic 


197 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Movement  (Movimento  Democratico  Portugues — MDP),  had  con- 
siderable influence  in  the  early  part  of  the  revolution.  Consisting 
mostly  of  students  and  intellectuals,  these  groups  were  augmented 
by  leftists  from  all  over  the  world  who  flocked  to  Portugal  to  wit- 
ness and  participate  in  the  revolution.  They  often  engaged  in  guer- 
rilla tactics,  street  demonstrations,  and  takeovers  of  private  lands 
and  industries.  On  their  own,  these  groups  could  mount  major 
demonstrations;  in  alliance  with  the  PCP,  they  could  be  even  more 
formidable.  Since  the  heady  revolutionary  days  of  the  mid-1970s, 
however,  most  of  these  groups  have  been  absorbed  into  the  larger 
parties  or  dissolved.  As  of  the  beginning  of  1990s,  some  far-left 
groups  were  still  active  at  the  universities  and  in  intellectual  cir- 
cles, but  they  were  seen  as  a  fringe  phenomenon  and  lacked  their 
former  disruptive  capacity. 

Portuguese  Communist  Party 

The  main  party  on  the  revolutionary  left  in  Portugal  was  for  de- 
cades the  Portuguese  Communist  Party  (Partido  Comunista 
Portugues — PCP).  The  PCP  had  a  long  history  of  defiance  to  the 
Salazar  dictatorship,  and  many  of  the  party's  leaders  had  spent 
long  years  in  jail  or  in  exile.  Party  members  who  remained  in  Por- 
tugal worked  underground  where  they  formed  associations  and  or- 
ganized the  labor  union  Intersindical.  The  party  was  strongly 
Stalinist  and  Moscow-oriented. 

Returning  from  exile  in  1974,  the  PCP's  leaders,  many  of  whom 
were  reputed  to  be  capable  and  formidable  politicians,  tried  to  seize 
power  by  means  of  a  coup,  allying  themselves  with  revolutionary 
elements  in  the  Armed  Forces  Movement  (Movimento  das  Forcas 
Armadas — MFA).  The  party  came  close  to  seizing  power  in  1975 
but  failed  because  moderate  elements  within  the  armed  forces  and 
the  political  parties  to  the  right  of  it  were  committed  to  Western 
democracy.  Extensive  financial  aid  from  Western  countries  to  these 
parties  also  contributed  to  the  PCP's  ultimate  defeat. 

The  PCP,  along  with  its  far-left  allies,  got  17  percent  of  the  vote 
in  the  first  democratic  election  in  Portugal  in  1975,  and  for  sever- 
al elections  after  that  it  held  its  position  at  approximately  12  to  19 
percent  of  the  vote.  But  during  the  1980s,  as  Portugal  moved  away 
from  the  radical  politics  of  the  mid-1970s  and  began  to  prosper 
economically,  the  PCP's  popularity  declined  to  less  than  10  per- 
cent of  the  vote.  The  party  remained  strong  in  the  trade  unions, 
but  younger  members  of  the  party  challenged  the  old  leadership 
and  questioned  the  party's  hard-line  Stalinist  positions.  Some  of 
these  young  challengers  were  expelled  from  the  party.  The  collapse 


198 


Government  and  Politics 


of  communism  in  Europe,  the  aging  of  the  party's  leadership  (the 
party  had  been  headed  by  Alvaro  Cunhal  since  1941)  and  of  its 
membership,  and  the  party's  poor  showing  in  elections  indicate 
that  the  party  either  will  have  to  transform  itself  fundamentally 
or  fade  away  as  a  political  force. 

Socialist  Party 

The  history  of  the  Socialist  Party  (Partido  Socialista — PS)  in  Por- 
tugal dates  back  to  the  late  nineteenth  century.  Like  the  PCP,  it 
was  persecuted  and  forced  into  exile  by  Salazar.  The  party  was 
reestablished  in  1973  in  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West 
Germany)  under  the  leadership  of  Mario  Soares,  who  had  opposed 
the  regime  as  a  young  man  and  had  been  imprisoned  for  his  politi- 
cal activities.  Soares  returned  to  Portugal  a  few  days  after  the  coup 
of  April  25,  1974,  and  the  PS  began  to  function  openly  as  a  politi- 
cal party.  It  had  both  a  moderate  and  a  militant  wing,  but  its 
militancy  was  tempered  by  the  articulate  and  politically  shrewd 
Soares. 

The  PS,  as  one  of  the  two  largest  parties  in  Portugal,  has  often 
formed  governments.  During  the  revolutionary  situation  in 
1974-75,  the  socialists  were  looked  on  as  the  most  viable  moder- 
ate opposition  to  the  PCP.  The  PS  therefore  received  considera- 
ble foreign  support,  as  well  as  domestic  votes,  that  it  might  not 
otherwise  have  had.  It  regularly  received  about  28  to  35  percent 
of  the  vote;  it  was  in  power  from  1976  to  1978  and  in  a  governing 
coalition  with  the  PSD  from  1983  to  1985. 

In  power  the  PS  followed  a  moderate,  centrist  program.  As  the 
Portuguese  electorate  became  more  conservative  in  the  1980s, 
however,  the  party  lost  support.  In  the  1985  election,  it  got  only 
20.8  percent  of  the  vote,  although  this  percentage  improved  slightly 
in  the  1987  national  elections.  The  party  won  the  1989  municipal 
elections,  but  despite  an  impressive  improvement  in  the  1991  na- 
tional election  when  it  polled  29.3  percent  of  the  vote,  it  still  lagged 
far  behind  the  PSD.  Persistent  leadership  problems  dating  from 
when  Soares  left  the  party  in  1986  when  he  was  elected  president 
and  inept  campaigns  were  seen  as  causes  of  the  party's  secondary 
position  in  Portuguese  politics.  At  times  the  disputes  between  the 
moderate  and  Marxist  factions  were  renewed,  but  the  party  as  a 
whole  had  moved  far  enough  to  the  right  that  in  the  1991  national 
election  the  PS  had  difficulty  distinguishing  itself  from  the  PSD 
on  most  major  issues. 

Social  Democrat  Party 

The  Social  Democrat  Party  (Partido  Social  Democrata — PSD) 


199 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


emerged  as  the  somewhat  open  and  tolerated  opposition  under 
Caetano  in  the  early  1970s.  For  a  time,  the  PSD,  then  known  as 
the  Popular  Democratic  Party  (Partido  Popular  Democrata — PPD), 
adopted  the  reformist  political  doctrines  popular  during  the  revolu- 
tionary period  of  the  mid-1970s.  It  was  soon  overtaken,  however, 
by  the  PS  as  the  main  opposition  party,  and  it  moved  toward  the 
democratic  center.  The  radical  constitution  of  1976  was  drafted 
and  promulgated  with  its  help,  but  even  then  the  PSD  was  com- 
mitted to  its  revision. 

The  PSD's  fortunes  generally  improved  as  revolutionary  fervor 
waned.  In  the  earliest  postrevolutionary  elections,  the  PSD  got 
about  24  to  27  percent  of  the  vote,  second  to  the  PS.  It  had  scored 
well  in  the  conservative  north  of  Portugal  but  not  in  the  revolu- 
tionary south.  As  the  party  began  to  occupy  the  broad  center  of 
the  political  spectrum  under  the  dynamic  leadership  of  Francisco 
Sa.  Carneiro,  the  PSD's  electoral  support  grew.  In  1978  the  PSD 
formed  an  electoral  coalition,  the  Democratic  Alliance  (Alianca 
Democratica — AD),  with  two  other  parties  and  came  to  power  in 
early  1980  with  Sa  Carneiro  as  prime  minister.  After  the  forma- 
tion of  this  government,  the  PSD  remained  in  government  through- 
out the  1980s  and  into  the  first  half  of  the  1990s,  either  as  part 
of  a  coalition,  in  a  minority  single-party  cabinet,  or  as  a  majority 
single-party  government. 

The  AD  won  the  parliamentary  election  of  October  1980,  but 
the  coalition's  forward  movement  slowed  somewhat  after  the  death 
of  Sa  Carneiro  in  a  plane  crash  in  December  1980.  His  successor, 
Expresso  founder  and  editor  Francisco  Pinto  Balsemao,  lacked  Sa 
Carneiro 's  forcefulness  and  charisma.  The  party  formed  an  elec- 
toral coalition,  the  Central  Bloc,  with  the  PS  in  1983  and  was  in 
government  until  1985  when  the  coalition  ended.  For  two  years, 
the  PSD  formed  a  minority  government  with  its  new  leader,  Anibal 
Cavaco  Silva,  as  prime  minister.  In  the  1987  national  elections, 
the  PSD  won  the  Second  Republic's  first  absolute  parliamentary 
majority,  a  feat  the  party  repeated  in  the  1991  elections.  By  con- 
sistently favoring  free-market  policies,  the  PSD  benefited  from  Por- 
tugal's improved  economy  after  the  country  joined  the  EC  in  1986 
and  the  electorate  returned  to  a  more  conservative  position  after 
the  radical  politics  of  the  mid-1970s. 

Party  of  the  Social  Democratic  Center 

The  Party  of  the  Social  Democratic  Center  (Partido  do  Centro 
Democratico  Social — CDS)  is  a  Christian  democratic  party  to  the 
right  of  the  political  spectrum.  Although  not  officially  a  religious 


200 


Government  and  Politics 


party,  the  CDS  is  mainly  linked  to  conservative  Portuguese  Catholi- 
cism and  most  of  its  officials  and  followers  are  Roman  Catholic. 
Unlike  some  other  Christian  democratic  parties,  the  conservative 
CDS  does  not  advocate  liberation  theology  (see  Glossary).  The  party 
was  founded  in  1975  by  Diogo  Freitas  do  Amaral,  a  respected  poli- 
tician and  a  professor  of  administrative  law. 

The  CDS  won  15.9  percent  of  the  vote  in  the  1976  elections  and 
for  a  time  formed  a  government  with  the  PS.  It  increased  its  pow- 
er when  it  formed  an  electoral  coalition  with  the  PSD  in  1979  and 
was  in  power  until  the  coalition  ended  in  1983.  Since  then  the  party 
has  lost  much  of  its  electoral  support,  gaining  only  a  little  more 
than  4  percent  of  the  vote  in  the  1987  and  1991  parliamentary  elec- 
tions. The  strength  of  the  PSD  at  the  polls  meant  that  the  CDS 
was  no  longer  needed  to  form  center-right  governments.  A  decline 
of  the  PSD  seems  the  only  opportunity  for  the  CDS  to  return  to 
power,  either  with  the  PSD  or  with  the  PS. 

Far  Right 

As  of  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  Portugal  had  not  had  a  strong 
far-right  party  since  the  fall  of  the  Salazar-Caetano  regime.  Most 
of  those  associated  with  the  old  regime  were  driven  into  exile  dur- 
ing the  revolution,  and  all  far-right  parties  were  declared  illegal. 
Some  of  the  prohibitions  against  right-wing  political  activities  still 
remained  law,  although  in  the  1980s  many  of  those  associated  with 
the  former  regime  had  returned  to  the  country  and  a  handful  had 
reentered  politics.  Rather  than  establishing  new  right-wing  par- 
ties, conservatives  and  supporters  of  the  old  regime  were  most  likely 
to  be  active  politically  through  the  PSD  or  the  CDS. 

Popular  Monarchist  Party 

The  Popular  Monarchist  Party  (Partido  Popular  Monarquico — 
PPM)  favors  the  restoration  of  the  Braganca  royal  family,  over- 
thrown in  1910.  Their  program  is  complicated,  however,  by  the 
existence  of  several  competing  Braganca  pretenders  to  the  throne. 
The  PPM  stands  for  a  constitutional  and  limited  monarchy  simi- 
lar to  the  one  in  Spain.  This  would  mean  that  the  monarch  is  a 
ceremonial  chief  of  state,  not  a  ruling  head  of  government.  The 
PPM  has  argued  that  a  monarchy  would  help  unify  the  govern- 
ment, promote  stability,  and  give  the  country  a  single,  if  mainly 
symbolic,  head.  In  addition,  the  PPM  campaigned  for  ecological 
concerns.  Only  once,  in  the  1987  elections  for  the  EC,  did  the  PPM 
win  even  3  percent  of  the  vote.  Generally  it  won  less  than  1  per- 
cent. In  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s,  however,  the  PPM  was 


201 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

was  part  of  the  AD  governing  coalition,  which  consisted  mainly 
of  the  CDS  and  the  PSD. 

Other  Parties 

Portugal  has  a  number  of  other,  largely  personalistic  parties  that 
rally  around  a  single  leading  personality  rather  than  an  issue  or 
program.  Most  of  these  are  small  parties,  frequently  rising  and  fall- 
ing quickly,  and  they  command  little  electoral  strength.  These  per- 
sonalistic parties  are  often  used  as  bargaining  chips  in  the  larger 
political  arena,  where  their  modest  support  might  be  traded  for 
a  cabinet  post  or  other  position.  An  exception  to  some  of  these  rules 
is  the  Party  of  Democratic  Renovation  (Partido  Renovador  Demo- 
cratico — PRD),  made  up  of  supporters  of  President  Eanes.  In  the 
national  elections  of  1985,  the  PRD  received  17.9  percent  of  the 
vote  and  seemed  poised  to  emerge  as  a  major  electoral  contender. 
In  the  national  elections  of  1987,  however,  it  got  just  under  5  per- 
cent of  the  vote.  After  Eanes  himself  withdrew  from  politics,  the 
party  faded  away,  winning  only  0.6  percent  of  the  vote  in  the  1991 
elections. 

Interest  Groups 

Despite  the  flourishing  of  democracy  since  1974,  interest  groups 
are  not  a  significant  force  in  Portugal.  Portuguese  politics  are  plu- 
ralist but  to  a  lesser  degree  than  in  many  other  countries,  espe- 
cially when  compared  with  the  United  States.  Whereas  the  United 
States  had  over  50,000  interest  groups  functioning  in  Washington 
alone  as  of  the  early  1990s,  the  number  functioning  in  Portugal 
was  probably  less  than  100. 

Armed  Forces 

The  armed  forces  in  Portugal  trace  their  origins  to  the  armies 
and  military  orders  of  medieval  times.  The  orders  were  often  au- 
tonomous from  the  state,  and,  because  they  were  formed  during 
the  reconquest,  may  have  predated  it.  Hence,  the  armed  forces 
came  to  be  thought  of — and  thought  of  themselves — as  a  separate 
unit  in  society,  independent  of  any  civil  authority  and  perhaps  above 
it.  Even  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  the  military  still  had  to  some 
extent  this  sense  of  aloofness  and  of  ideals  of  a  higher  order. 

Up  until  the  1980s,  the  military  had  been  the  ultimate  arbiter 
of  Portuguese  national  politics.  In  the  nineteenth  century,  the  armed 
forces  participated  in  chaotic,  man-on-horseback  politics.  Mili- 
tary cum  civilian  factions  "rotated"  (rotativismo)  in  and  out  of  power 
with  frequent  regularity.  The  armed  forces  helped  usher  in  the 


202 


Government  and  Politics 


Portuguese  Republic  in  1910  and  ended  it  in  1926.  The  military 
brought  Salazar  to  power  and  served  as  an  indispensable  prop  of 
his  dictatorship. 

It  was  the  armed  forces  that  overthrew  Caetano  in  1974,  and 
the  MFA  that  launched  the  revolution.  The  MFA  took  pains  to 
retain  special  powers  by  creating  the  Council  of  the  Revolution, 
which  guaranteed  the  armed  forces  the  power  to  prohibit  legisla- 
tion that  they  saw  as  harmful  to  the  revolution's  democratic  achieve- 
ments. The  military  agreed,  however,  that  these  powers  were  to 
be  of  limited  duration. 

During  the  1980s,  the  political  and  social  roles  of  the  armed  forces 
diminished.  The  1982  constitutional  amendments  reduced  the  mili- 
tary's political  power  by  abolishing  the  Council  of  the  Revolution, 
thereby  ending  the  military's  guardianship  over  Portuguese  politics. 
The  National  Defense  Law  of  1982  put  the  military  completely 
under  civilian  control.  In  addition,  the  armed  forces  were  signifi- 
cantly reduced  in  size  and  budget.  On  the  other  hand,  Portuguese 
officers  became  better  educated,  more  technologically  sophisticated, 
and  more  professional. 

By  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  the  Portuguese  armed  forces 
had  a  social  role  similar  to  that  of  armed  forces  in  other  West 
European  countries.  Only  extreme  events  could  possibly  pull  Por- 
tugal's soldiers  back  into  politics,  although  like  any  other  interest 
group  they  did  lobby  to  protect  their  interests,  benefits,  budget, 
and  position  in  society. 

Roman  Catholic  Church 

Like  the  armed  forces,  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  in  Portugal 
also  declined  in  influence  during  the  1980s.  The  church,  along  with 
the  military,  had  been  one  of  the  historical  corporate  units  in  soci- 
ety, predating  the  state  and  then  existing  parallel  to  it.  As  a  result, 
Portugal  was  historically  a  Roman  Catholic  nation.  Roman  Catholi- 
cism not  only  was  the  sole  religion  of  the  country,  but  also  per- 
meated the  culture,  the  legal  system,  the  society,  and  the  polity. 
Salazar  derived  many  of  his  corporatist  beliefs  from  the  papal  en- 
cyclicals, and  during  his  long  rule  the  church  served  as  an  indispens- 
able pillar  of  the  regime. 

In  recent  decades,  however,  as  society  has  become  more  secular- 
ized, the  church  has  come  to  play  a  lesser  role  in  people's  lives.  Dur- 
ing the  1974-76  period,  the  church  helped  turn  the  population 
away  from  the  appeals  of  communism  and  radicalism,  but  since 
those  tumultuous  years  the  church  has  been  quiescent  politically. 
The  church  has,  however,  expressed  itself  on  some  issues,  such  as 


203 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

the  legalization  of  abortion,  on  which  it  feels  morally  obliged  to 
take  a  public  stance.  Polls  of  Portuguese  show  that  the  church's 
ranking  among  main  interest  groups  has  fallen  from  second-  or 
third-most  influential  to  seventh-  or  eighth-most  influential. 

Economic  Elites 

The  "oligarchy"  was  the  third  of  the  historical  triumvirate  of 
power  in  Portugal  (armed  forces,  church,  and  oligarchy)  to  be  in 
decline.  Many  of  the  old  oligarchical  families  trace  their  origins 
to  the  Reconquest.  They  acquired  their  land,  position,  and  titles, 
and  eventually  peasants  and  cattle,  as  the  Reconquest  drove  the 
Moors  farther  south,  opening  up  new  territories  for  settlement. 

This  oligarchy,  armed  with  titles  of  nobility  granted  it  by  the 
royal  family  in  return  for  loyalty,  dominated  Portuguese  politics 
for  centuries.  But  over  time,  its  character  changed.  In  the  south 
of  Portugal,  the  Alentejo,  the  landowning  class  became  increas- 
ingly absentee  landlords,  leaving  managers  in  charge  of  its  estates 
and  moving  to  Lisbon.  In  the  north,  where  smallholdings  predomi- 
nated, many  members  of  the  oligarchy  became  impoverished — or 
went  into  businesses  like  wine  making.  During  the  reign  of  Sala- 
zar,  members  of  the  elite  went  into  banking,  insurance,  construc- 
tion, and  similar  fields  in  which  they  could  establish  oligopolies 
and  monopolies  based  on  their  close  ties  with  the  government. 

After  the  Revolution  of  1974,  this  economic  elite  was  stripped 
of  power.  Its  properties  were  confiscated,  many  from  the  elite  were 
jailed  or  sent  into  exile,  and  the  group  lost  all  political  power.  In 
addition,  members  of  the  elite  were  barred  from  participating  in 
politics  or  from  forming  political  movements  of  their  own  because 
of  laws  forbidding  far-right  political  activity. 

As  of  the  early  1990s,  most  of  the  exiles  had  been  permitted  to 
return  to  Portugal,  and  those  who  had  spent  time  in  jail  were  freed. 
Some  of  the  elite  managed  to  regain  their  power  by  taking  advan- 
tage of  the  economy's  need  for  financial  expertise,  but  the  elite  as 
a  whole  did  not  regain  its  old  financial  position.  Its  political  in- 
fluence remained  limited,  as  well,  and  only  one  member  of  the  old 
Salazar  regime  had  been  elected  to  parliament. 

Organized  Labor 

Portuguese  trade  unionism  has  a  history  of  militancy  and  radical- 
ism. Its  roots  go  back  to  the  late  nineteenth  century  when  modern 
industry  first  appeared.  The  unions  grew  during  the  period  of  the 
First  Republic,  1910-26,  when  they  enjoyed  freedom  to  organize. 
It  was  in  this  period  that  Marxist,  Bolshevik,  Trotskyite,  anarchist, 


204 


Government  and  Politics 


and  syndicalist  ideas  were  discussed  and  disseminated.  Although 
the  labor  movement  was  small,  a  reflection  of  the  low  level  of  Por- 
tuguese industrialization,  it  was  active  and  vocal. 

During  the  Salazar-Caetano  era,  militant  unions  were  abolished, 
and  the  labor  movement  was  forcibly  subordinated  to  corporatist 
controls.  Many  labor  leaders  were  jailed  or  sent  into  exile.  Some 
cooperated  with  the  new  corporative  system;  others  organized  a 
militant,  Communist-controlled  underground  labor  organization. 
With  time  this  union,  Intersindical,  was  well  enough  established 
that  the  government  actually  dealt  with  it  almost  as  if  it  were  a 
legal  bargaining  agent. 

During  the  Revolution  of  1974,  Intersindical,  or  as  it  came  to 
be  known  in  1977,  the  General  Confederation  of  Portuguese 
Workers-National  Intersindical  (Confederacao  Geral  dos  Trabal- 
hadores  Portugueses-Intersindical  Nacional — CGTP-IN),  was  at 
last  able  to  function  as  a  legal  labor  organization,  and  it  expanded 
rapidly.  Controlled  by  the  Communists,  the  CGTP-IN  was  closely 
associated  with  the  PCP's  bid  for  power  and  for  a  time  was  the 
only  union  permitted  to  function.  Soon,  however,  it  faced  opposi- 
tion from  the  Socialist  labor  organization,  the  General  Union  of  Work- 
ers (Uniao  Geral  dos  Trabalhadores — UGT).  For  a  time,  the 
Communist  labor  group  was  overwhelmingly  dominant,  but  dur- 
ing the  1980s  the  UGT  grew  in  size,  especially  in  the  service  sec- 
tor, and  by  the  end  of  the  decade  its  overall  membership  was  about 
half  that  of  the  CGTP-IN.  Many  other  small  unions  were  active 
at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  most  notably  those  representing  highly 
specialized  professions  such  as  airline  pilots.  There  was  also  a  Chris- 
tian democratic  trade  union  movement. 

After  1974  organized  labor  emerged  as  a  powerful  force  in  Por- 
tuguese politics,  although  its  influence  waned  somewhat  after  the 
revolutionary  period.  Union  membership  was  not  high,  and  as  of 
the  early  1990s  only  about  30  percent  of  the  work  force  was  union- 
ized. The  Communist-led  unions  were  not  able  to  block  the  con- 
stitutional amendments  of  1982  and  1989,  which  reduced  the 
radical  legacy  of  the  revolution.  Moreover,  some  unions  backed 
away  from  the  intense  ideological  unionism  of  the  1970s  in  favor 
of  more  limited  and  practical  objectives. 

Middle  Class 

Portugal  had  long  been  an  essentially  two-class  society  consist- 
ing of  elites  and  peasants  between  which  existed  a  small  class  of 
artisans,  soldiers,  and  tradespeople.  With  the  acceleration  of  in- 
dustrialization and  economic  development  after  the  1950s,  this  mid- 
dle class  began  to  grow.  As  it  came  to  prefer  democracy  and  a  more 


205 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

open  West  European  society,  it  provided  the  strongest  opposition 
to  the  Salazar-Caetano  regime.  As  a  result,  the  middle  class  par- 
ticipated strongly  in  the  Revolution  of  1974  and  the  political  maneu- 
vering that  followed.  In  the  following  decade,  after  the  old  elites 
were  shunted  aside  by  the  revolution  and  labor  organizations  lost 
power,  the  middle  class  emerged  as  Portugal's  most  important  class. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  the  middle  class  constituted  some 
25  to  30  percent  of  the  population.  The  most  important  Portuguese 
institutions  were  dominated  by  the  middle  class:  the  military  officer 
corps,  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  political  parties,  public  ad- 
ministration, the  universities,  and  commerce  and  industry. 

The  middle  class  remained  divided  on  many  social  and  political 
issues,  however.  For  example,  political  leadership  in  Portugal  was 
solidly  middle  class  and  spanned  all  parties  from  the  far  left  to  the 
far  right.  The  success  of  the  PSD  under  Cavaco  Silva  both  in  parlia- 
ment and  in  the  election  of  1987  was  perhaps  an  indication, 
however,  that  Portugal's  new  socially  significant  middle  class  was 
developing  a  degree  of  social  cohesion. 

The  commercial  segment  of  the  middle  class  defended  its  interests 
through  the  PSD  and  the  CDS  and  also  through  some  large  repre- 
sentative organizations.  The  leading  organizations  of  this  type  were 
the  Portuguese  Industrial  Association  (Associagao  Industrial  Por- 
tuguesa — AIP),  founded  in  1860,  the  much  larger  Confederation 
of  Portuguese  Industry  (Confederacao  da  Industria  Portuguesa — 
CIP),  founded  in  1974,  and  the  Portuguese  Confederation  of  Com- 
merce (Confederacao  do  Comercio  Portugues — CCP),  founded  in 
1977.  These  organizations,  and  others  like  them,  met  with  impor- 
tant labor  groups  and  with  government  officials  and  lobbied  be- 
hind the  scenes  to  better  the  conditions  under  which  Portugal's  new 
middle  class  had  to  work. 

Students  and  Intellectuals 

Students  and  intellectuals  in  Portugal  had  long  been  influential 
out  of  proportion  to  their  numbers.  This  influence  was  a  conse- 
quence of  higher  education's  exclusivity.  The  small  percentage  of 
the  population  who  passed  the  difficult  university  entrance  exams 
was  widely  respected,  and  Portugal's  lower  classes  looked  up  to 
educated  persons  as  their  intellectual  and  political  mentors. 

Intellectuals  and  students  were  among  the  leading  advocates  of 
a  republic  in  1910.  Although  hostile  to  the  republic,  Salazar  was 
also  an  intellectual  and  recruited  so  many  of  his  fellow  university 
colleagues  into  his  administration  that  it  was  sometimes  called  a 
"regime  of  professors."  Much  of  the  opposition  to  Salazar  and 
Caetano,  however,  was  made  up  of  intellectuals  and  students  who 


206 


Government  and  Politics 


formed  the  "study  groups"  that  served  as  the  nuclei  for  what  later 
became  political  parties.  Intellectuals  and  students  were  very  ac- 
tive in  the  Revolution  of  1974,  and,  as  of  the  beginning  of  the  1990s, 
many  intellectuals  served  in  high  positions  in  government  and  the 
political  parties. 

Universities  in  Portugal  were  traditionally  heavily  politicized, 
especially  during  the  revolutionary  upheavals  of  the  1970s.  Socialist, 
Communist,  and  other  far-left  groups  competed  for  dominance  on 
the  campuses  (mainly  at  the  historical  universities  in  Lisbon  and 
Coimbra)  and  in  publishing  houses,  newspapers,  and  study  centers 
where  intellectuals  congregated. 

Rising  enrollment  pressures,  the  competition  of  new  regional 
universities  and  technical  institutes,  and  the  desire  to  find  good 
jobs  in  the  more  affluent  Portugal  of  the  1980s  sapped  the  students' 
enthusiasm  for  political  action.  Many  preferred  to  finish  their 
courses  and  degrees  and  secure  a  rewarding  professional  position 
rather  than  to  engage  in  constant  political  activity.  As  a  result,  Por- 
tugal's institutions  of  higher  learning  became  calmer  politically; 
they  also  became  better,  more  serious  universities. 

Peasants 

Peasants  were  long  the  neglected  and  forgotten  people  of  Por- 
tuguese politics.  Although  the  largest  group  numerically,  they  were 
the  weakest  politically.  Nonparticipation  was  encouraged  by  Sala- 
zar's  strategy  of  keeping  the  peasants  illiterate  and  apathetic. 

The  peasants  comprised  a  variety  of  groups.  A  basic  distinction 
exists  between  the  conservative  peasants  of  the  north  who  own  their 
small  plots  of  land  and  the  peasants  of  the  south  who  have  no  land, 
live  under  conditions  of  tenancy,  and  have  been  receptive  to  the 
appeals  of  radical  political  groups.  The  PCP,  for  example,  had 
quietly  organized  southern  peasants  under  its  banner  even  during 
the  Salazar  era.  During  and  after  the  Revolution  of  1974,  the  south, 
especially  the  Alentejo,  was  a  hotbed  of  land  seizures,  radical  po- 
litical action,  and  strong  voting  preferences  for  the  PCP. 

Since  the  revolution,  however,  both  the  PS  and  the  PSD  have 
made  electoral  inroads  into  what  were  PCP  strongholds  in  the  south. 
The  rural  areas  were  once  again  to  some  degree  de-politicized, 
although  the  countryside  would  never  return  to  the  quiescence  of 
decades  past,  despite  the  large  numbers  of  farmers  and  agrarian 
laborers  who  migrated  to  urban  areas  or  went  abroad. 

Political  Events  since  1987 

The  parliamentary  election  of  July  1987  was  a  milestone  in  the 
consolidation  of  Portuguese  democracy:  for  the  first  time  in  the 


207 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Second  Republic,  it  gave  a  single  party,  the  PSD,  an  absolute 
majority  in  the  Assembly  of  the  Republic  and  permitted  the  for- 
mation of  a  strong  single-party  government.  The  party's  leader, 
Anibal  Cavaco  Silva,  ran  an  efficient  campaign  that  stressed  the 
PSD's  competence  and  pragmatism  and  avoided  the  ideological 
arguments  common  to  Portuguese  politics.  The  party  won  a  com- 
fortable majority  of  148  seats  in  the  assembly  when  50.2  percent 
of  the  voters,  a  stunning  increase  over  the  29.9  percent  who  voted 
for  it  in  the  1985  elections,  decided  Portugal  needed  to  continue 
the  PSD's  program  of  reducing  the  government's  role  in  the  econ- 
omy. Most  of  the  PSD's  increased  share  of  the  votes  came  from 
the  virtual  collapse  of  the  PRD  and  the  severe  losses  of  the  CDS. 
The  PS  improved  significantly  its  performance  compared  to  1985, 
whereas  the  PCP  continued  its  decline  toward  political  marginality. 

An  improving  economy  contributed  to  the  PSD  victory,  but  also 
essential  to  its  success  was  the  party's  leader  since  1985,  Anfoal 
Cavaco  Silva.  He  captured  the  imagination  of  many  Portuguese, 
who  saw  him  as  a  welcome  alternative  to  traditional  Portuguese 
politicians.  Cavaco  Silva  differed  from  Portugal's  narrow  govern- 
ing elite  in  many  respects.  He  was  not  from  Lisbon  but  came  from 
a  lower-middle  class  southern  family.  He  was  not  a  lawyer  but  an 
economist  who  had  earned  his  doctorate  from  the  University  of 
York  in  Britain  and  subsequently  had  taught  economics  in  Lisbon. 
Although  for  a  time  minister  of  finance  in  the  early  1980s,  he  did 
not  favor  political  games  and  intrigues  but  publically  disdained  these 
aspects  of  party  politics.  Observers  frequently  characterized  Cavaco 
Silva  as  somewhat  aloof  and  arrogant,  more  interested  in  compe- 
tence than  connections.  Through  hard  work  and  intelligence,  he 
was  able  to  thwart  even  powerful  members  of  his  own  party  who 
resisted  reform  and  modernization.  These  qualities  won  Cavaco 
Silva  the  votes  of  many  younger  people  and  members  of  the  mid- 
dle class. 

Supported  by  a  majority  in  parliament,  Cavaco  Silva' s  govern- 
ment, in  which  he  served  as  prime  minister,  aimed  at  a  liberaliza- 
tion of  the  Portuguese  economy.  A  principal  goal  was  to  further 
revise  the  constitution  by  removing  much  of  its  ideological  language. 
The  two-thirds  majority  this  undertaking  required  was  achieved 
with  help  from  the  PS.  Another  goal  was  a  reform  of  the  constitu- 
tion's provisions  relating  to  the  dismissal  of  employees;  these  pro- 
visions were  so  strict  that  firings  were  very  difficult.  Some  relaxation 
of  labor  law  was  achieved  but  not  nearly  that  which  had  been  en- 
visaged. A  general  strike  in  early  1988  and  a  judgment  from  the 
Constitutional  Court  that  the  government's  proposals  were  uncon- 
stitutional prevented  radical  reform  in  this  area  (see  Wages  and 


208 


Mario  Soares, 
president, 
1986- 

Courtesy  Embassy  of 
Portugal,  Washington 


the  Distribution  of  Income,  Ch.  3).  The  Cavaco  Silva  government 
had  much  more  success  in  privatizing  land  and  businesses  nation- 
alized in  1975  (see  Land  Tenure  and  Agrarian  Reform,  ch,  3;  In- 
dustrial Organization,  ch.  3).  By  the  end  of  1991 ,  many  of  the  largest 
companies  seized  by  the  state  had  been  returned  in  whole  or  in  part 
to  the  private  sector,  and  further  privatizations  were  scheduled. 

A  presidential  election  was  held  in  January  1991,  at  the  end  of 
Mario  Soares 's  five-year  term.  Faced  with  only  token  opposition, 
Soares  won  reelection  easily,  taking  70  percent  of  the  vote.  Such 
was  the  expectation  of  his  victory  that  the  PSD  did  not  even  field 
a  candidate.  Despite  his  reputation  as  a  highly  partisan  leader  of 
the  PS  and  the  narrowness  of  his  victory  in  1986,  Soares  had  quickly 
become  a  very  popular  president.  In  general,  he  and  Cavaco  Silva 
got  along  well  with  one  another  as  they  carried  out  the  duties  of 
their  respective  offices.  Soares  interfered  only  rarely  in  the  work- 
ing of  the  cabinet  and  legislature,  and  when  confronted  with  difficult 
political  issues  he  called  upon  the  Constitutional  Court  for  a  deci- 
sion. He  instituted  a  practice  of  informal  town  meetings  through- 
out Portugal  where  he  learned  of  the  concerns  of  the  average  citizen. 
An  articulate  speaker,  he  was  later  able  to  voice  these  concerns  him- 
self and  plead  publicly  for  the  betterment  of  social  conditions.  Soares 
also  represented  his  country  ably  abroad. 

Parliamentary  elections  were  held  in  October  1991  after  the  Cava- 
co Silva  government  had  completed  the  four-year  legislative  term, 


209 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

the  first  government  to  do  so  in  the  Second  Republic.  Although 
the  PSD  was  expected  to  win  a  majority,  few  expected  it  to  better 
its  results  of  1987.  It  did  so,  however,  by  a  tiny  margin  and  once 
again  achieved  an  absolute  parliamentary  majority.  An  economy 
that  had  performed  better  than  the  EC  average,  thanks  in  part  to 
the  billions  of  dollars  the  organization  had  transferred  to  Portugal 
since  1986,  helped  Cavaco  Silva  achieve  his  second  triumph,  but 
his  own  popularity  also  played  a  role.  He  conducted  a  highly  ef- 
fective campaign  centered  on  his  capabilities  as  prime  minister. 
Assurances  from  Cavaco  Silva  that  he  would  not  serve  in  a  PSD 
government  that  did  not  have  a  clear  majority  probably  caused 
many  voters  to  favor  his  party.  As  in  1987,  the  PSD  did  well  in 
all  parts  of  the  country.  It  failed  to  come  in  first  in  only  one  dis- 
trict, compared  to  three  in  1987,  an  indication  that  the  old  region- 
al cleavages  were  disappearing  as  the  country  modernized  and 
became  more  prosperous. 

The  PSD's  main  opponent  in  the  1991  election  was  the  PS,  which 
polled  29.3  percent  of  the  vote,  a  significant  improvement  over  the 
results  of  1987  and  1985.  The  PS's  success,  despite  a  poorly  run 
campaign  and  long-standing  leadership  problems  since  Soares  had 
relinquished  his  role,  indicated  that  Portugal  was  perhaps  moving 
toward  an  essentially  two-party  system.  Although  the  PS  trailed 
the  PSD  badly  in  this  election,  it  had  won  the  local  elections  of 
1989.  The  PS  and  the  PSD  seemed  to  be  the  only  parties  in  Portu- 
gal able  to  increase  their  votes.  They  had  also  come  to  resemble 
one  another  so  closely  that  their  differences  on  main  issues  had  be- 
come marginal. 

The  PRD,  which  had  scored  such  a  success  in  the  1985  elec- 
tions, failed  to  win  a  single  seat.  The  PCP  received  only  8.8  per- 
cent of  the  votes  cast,  a  result  that  showed  the  party  to  be  in  a  steady 
and  steep  decline.  It  remained  tied  to  old  orthodoxies,  approving 
the  reactionary  coup  in  Moscow  in  August  1991 ,  for  example.  The 
CDS  won  4.4  percent  of  the  votes  for  five  seats  in  parliament.  It 
did  not  seem  likely  to  be  politically  significant  in  the  future,  ex- 
cept perhaps  as  a  coalition  partner  with  one  of  the  two  largest 
parties. 

The  Media 

During  the  long  Salazar  regime,  the  media  operated  under  strict 
authoritarian  control.  The  press  was  heavily  censored,  radio  and 
television  were  government-controlled,  and  writers  who  violated 
the  regime's  guidelines  were  subject  to  severe  sanctions.  Even  the 
lists  of  books  requested  by  readers  from  the  National  Library  in 
Lisbon  were  reviewed  by  secret  police  officials.  Foreign  magazines 


210 


Government  and  Politics 


were  similarly  inspected  before  being  put  on  the  newsstands;  some- 
times whole  stories  were  blotted  out.  The  controls  and  censorship 
were  stifling  and  led  to  a  pervasive  and  boring  conformity  in  the 
media. 

Under  Caetano  the  rules  were  relaxed  somewhat.  Some  novelists 
and  essayists  were  able  to  publish  critical  and  controversial  works 
without  punishment.  The  press  occasionally  spoke  out  indirectly, 
providing  long  analyses  of  elections  in  Chile  or  West  Germany, 
for  example,  that  everyone  understood  to  be  a  commentary  on  the 
absence  of  free  elections  in  Portugal.  Only  the  weekly  newspaper 
Expresso  was  strong  enough  to  test  the  regime's  tolerance  with  vir- 
tually every  issue. 

After  the  coup  of  April  25,  1974,  the  mass  communications  me- 
dia underwent  a  radical  transformation.  One  of  the  first  acts  of 
the  revolutionary  government  was  to  abolish  censorship.  But  as 
the  revolution  veered  to  the  left,  some  portions  of  the  media  were 
seized  by  opponents  of  the  views  they  expressed.  Two  of  the  most 
celebrated  cases  involved  the  closing  of  the  Socialist  Party  newspaper 
Republica  and  the  Roman  Catholic  Church's  Radio  Renascenca. 

Government  involvement  in  the  media  greatly  increased  when 
the  banks  were  nationalized.  Because  most  banks  owned  at  least 
one  newspaper,  the  state  found  itself  the  owner  of  many  newspapers. 
With  time,  however,  the  government  divested  itself  of  these  proper- 
ties. By  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  no  newspapers  in  Portugal  were 
government  owned,  and  the  country  had  a  completely  free  press. 
Although  the  state  still  operated  radio  and  television  broadcasting 
systems,  the  constitution  states  that  they  are  to  provide  equal  ac- 
cess to  political  parties,  in  or  out  of  power.  Large  interest  groups 
are  also  to  have  access  to  the  state-owned  electronic  media. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  about  thirty  newspapers  were  pub- 
lished daily  in  Portugal.  They  ranged  from  excellent  newspapers 
like  Publico,  an  independent,  and  the  historic  Didrio  de  Noticias,  a 
newspaper  of  record,  to  sensationalistic  crowd-pleasers  such  as  Cor- 
reio  da  Manha.  Publico,  founded  in  1990,  had  sections  dealing  with 
both  Lisbon  and  Porto  and  provided  perhaps  the  most  national 
news.  Two  excellent  weekly  newspapers  filled  the  place  taken  in 
the  United  States  by  Time  and  Newsweek:  Expresso,  which  had  fought 
bravely  for  press  freedom  before  the  revolution,  and  0  Independente, 
founded  in  1988,  which  included  pages  enlivened  by  wicked  sa- 
tires of  public  figures.  In  addition  to  these  publications,  Portugal 
had  a  variety  of  specialized  magazines. 

In  1975  all  commercial  broadcasting  facilities  except  those  be- 
longing to  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  were  nationalized.  As  of 
the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  however,  hundreds  of  private  radio 


211 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

stations  were  in  operation,  in  addition  to  the  large  Roman  Catholic 
radio  system  Radio  Renascenca.  The  state  broadcasting  system  was 
named  Radiodifusao  Portuguesa  (RDP).  Television  service  was 
furnished  by  the  state  system,  Radiotelevisao  Portuguesa  (RTP), 
which  broadcast  on  two  channels.  At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s, 
however,  plans  were  being  made  to  establish  privately  owned  tele- 
vision in  Portugal. 

Portugal's  film  industry  is  very  small.  It  produces  mainly  short 
films  and  documentaries  for  local  television.  Few  full-length  films 
are  made  in  Portugal,  and  those  that  are  have  not  found  a  market 
abroad.  However,  a  few  Portuguese  directors,  the  veteran  Manoel 
de  Oliveira  and  Paolo  Rocha,  for  example,  are  highly  esteemed 
by  film  cognoscenti  the  world  over. 

Book  publishing  is  more  prosperous,  within  the  limits  of  the  lo- 
cal market.  Portugal  has  more  than  fifty  publishing  houses.  They 
publish  books  by  Portuguese  authors  but  also  do  a  major  business 
in  translations  of  foreign  authors.  During  the  mid-1970s,  works 
by  Marx,  Lenin,  Rosa  Luxemburg,  and  other  writers  on  the  left 
dominated  the  bestseller  lists.  In  the  period  since  then,  Portuguese 
readers  have  turned  to  a  greater  diversity  of  authors.  The  coun- 
try's relatively  high  illiteracy  rate  of  about  15  percent  and  the  fact 
that  most  Portuguese  read  littie  make  for  a  small  market.  As  a  result, 
books  are  expensive,  and  printings  of  even  bestselling  books  are 
usually  limited  to  2,000  to  3,000  copies. 

Foreign  Relations 

The  Revolution  of  1974  did  not  merely  transform  Portugal's 
domestic  politics;  it  led  to  a  transformation  of  its  foreign  relations, 
as  well.  For  centuries  Portugal's  foreign  relations  were  directed  away 
from  Europe,  first  down  the  South  Atlantic  and  to  Africa,  then 
to  Brazil  and  the  Orient.  Lisbon's  relations  with  Europe  were  limit- 
ed to  an  alliance  dating  from  1386  with  Britain,  another  Atlantic 
country,  that  was  intended  to  protect  it  from  Spain  and  any  other 
European  power  that  might  threaten  Portugal's  independence  and 
its  vast  empire.  Over  the  centuries,  much  of  this  empire  was  lost. 
Preserving  what  remained  of  this  empire,  the  country's  African 
colonies  and  a  few  other  small  entities,  became  the  core  of  Por- 
tuguese foreign  policy  in  the  nineteenth  and  twentieth  centuries. 
Moreover,  the  Portuguese  saw  themselves  as  a  people  with  an  "At- 
lantic vocation"  rather  than  as  an  integral  part  of  Europe. 

Postwar  developments  for  a  time  buttressed  the  traditional  atti- 
tude that  Portugal's  true  concerns  and  interests  lay  in  the  South 
Atlantic  and  beyond  and  away  from  Europe.  Portugal  became  a 
founding  member  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 


212 


Government  and  Politics 


(NATO)  not  for  what  its  army  could  do  in  Central  Europe  but 
for  the  importance  of  the  Azores  as  a  site  for  military  bases.  Other 
than  permitting  the  United  States  access  to  these  islands,  Portu- 
gal's contribution  to  the  alliance  was  negligible. 

The  wave  of  anticolonialism  that  swept  through  the  Third  World 
after  World  War  II  sparked  rebellion  in  Portugal's  African  colo- 
nies. Lisbon's  great  efforts  to  quell  these  struggles  for  independence 
intensified  the  metropole's  traditional  interest  in  Africa.  In  the  end, 
however,  Portugal  was  not  strong  enough  to  put  down  the  wars 
of  independence.  In  fact,  the  great  expenditure  of  manpower  and 
revenue  in  the  African  wars  was  the  main  cause  of  the  Revolution 
of  1974.  The  revolution  brought  to  power  members  of  the  mili- 
tary who  were  determined  to  end  the  fighting,  and  within  a  matter 
of  eighteen  months  Portugal's  empire  was  gone. 

Shorn  of  its  colonies,  Portugal  was  forced  to  concede  that  its  fu- 
ture lay  in  Europe,  a  revolutionary  change  in  the  country's  view 
of  its  place  in  the  world.  It  became  a  member  of  the  EC  in  1986 
and  enjoyed  the  benefits  and  endured  the  change  that  this  mem- 
bership entailed.  Portugal's  most  important  foreign  relationship, 
its  relationship  with  the  United  States,  changed  only  in  degree, 
not  in  kind.  In  other  respects,  however,  Portugal  began  a  whole 
new  era  in  its  foreign  policy. 

Africa 

During  the  1960s  and  early  1970s,  Portugal  waged  three  colonial 
wars  simultaneously  on  the  African  continent  (see  The  Role  of  the 
Armed  Forces  in  Africa,  ch.  5).  These  campaigns  hurt  the  economy, 
drained  morale,  and  gradually  became  politically  unpopular.  The 
end  of  the  wars  in  Africa  brought  independence  to  the  colonies 
almost  immediately.  The  manner  in  which  independence  was  grant- 
ed, however,  and  the  results  that  were  produced  proved  to  be  highly 
controversial. 

In  his  unsettling  book,  Portugal  and  the  Future,  General  Antonio 
de  Spmola  had  proposed  stopping  the  wars,  finding  a  peaceful  reso- 
lution, and  granting  independence  to  the  colonies.  But  he  wanted 
to  maintain  good  relations  with  the  colonies  and  to  link  them  with 
Portugal  and  possibly  Brazil  through  a  Portuguese- speaking  Lu- 
sitanian  confederation  of  nations  that  would  resemble  the  British 
Commonwealth.  This  proposal  was  rejected  by  the  radical  and  more 
impatient  members  of  the  Armed  Forces  Movement  (Movimento 
das  Forcas  Armadas — MFA). 

In  Guinea-Bissau,  after  brief  negotiations  and  a  cease-fire,  Por- 
tugal granted  independence  to  its  former  colony  and  turned  pow- 
er over  to  the  Marxist  African  Party  for  the  Independence  of  Guinea 


213 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

and  Cape  Verde  (Partido  Africano  pela  Independencia  de  Guine 
e  Cabo  Verde — PAIGC).  Cape  Verde  also  became  independent 
but  did  not  become  part  of  Guinea-Bissau.  In  the  much  larger  ter- 
ritory of  Mozambique,  Portugal  turned  over  the  reins  of  govern- 
ment to  the  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  Mozambique  (Frente  de 
Libertacao  de  Mozambique — FRELIMO),  another  Marxist- 
Leninist  guerrilla  group.  And  in  Angola,  Portugal's  most  valua- 
ble African  colony,  power  was  given  to  the  similarly  Marxist- 
Leninist  Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola 
(Movimento  Popular  de  Libertacao  de  Angola — MPLA)  which, 
among  the  three  factions  fighting  for  independence,  was  the  only 
one  allied  with  the  Soviet  Union.  The  smaller  colony  of  Sao  Tome 
and  Principe  also  became  independent. 

The  haste  with  which  independence  was  granted  and  the  simple 
turning  of  power  over  to  the  very  Marxist-Leninist  elements  Por- 
tugal had  been  fighting,  without  any  further  guarantees,  had  a  num- 
ber of  serious  consequences.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  Portuguese 
settlers  were  stranded,  many  of  whom  had  lived  in  the  colonies 
for  generations.  They  lost  their  homes,  land,  and  positions.  Most 
of  them  returned  to  Portugal,  where  many  lived  in  squalid  condi- 
tions and  added  to  the  country's  unemployment  problems.  Their 
departure  left  the  African  colonies  without  the  teachers,  educators, 
managers,  and  other  trained  personnel  needed  to  make  a  success- 
ful transition  to  independence.  Plagued  by  continuing  civil  wars 
and  violence,  political  conditions  and  living  standards  in  the  new- 
ly independent  states  deteriorated. 

Portugal's  relations  with  these  former  colonies  long  remained 
strained,  for  they  felt  they  had  been  abandoned  by  the  mother  coun- 
try. With  time,  however,  relations  improved,  trade  resumed,  Por- 
tuguese educators  and  technicians  were  welcomed  back,  and  new 
ties  among  the  Portuguese-speaking  nations  began  to  be  forged. 
Portugal  served  as  a  useful  intermediary  in  arranging  agreements 
to  reduce  conflicts  in  Angola  and  Mozambique.  In  1984,  for  ex- 
ample, Portugal  sponsored  the  Nkomati  Accords  between  Mozam- 
bique and  South  Africa  by  which  the  two  latter  countries  agreed 
to  stop  supporting  guerrilla  groups  in  each  other's  territory.  The 
three  countries  later  agreed  to  manage  the  giant  Cahora  Bassa 
hydroelectric  power  plant  for  the  benefit  of  all.  Although  Portugal 
will  no  longer  play  a  large  role  in  Africa,  its  special  relationship 
with  the  continent's  Lusophone  (Portuguese-speaking)  countries 
make  it  likely  that  it  will  play  a  role  of  some  importance. 

Western  Europe 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  Portugal's  relations  with  Western 


214 


Government  and  Politics 


Europe  were  closer  than  ever  before.  Historically,  Portugal  had 
remained  aloof  from  Europe,  its  main  link  to  the  continent  being 
a  long-standing  alliance  with  Britain.  In  1949  Portugal  became  a 
founding  member  of  NATO,  in  1955  it  joined  the  United  Nations 
(UN),  in  1960  it  became  a  part  of  the  European  Free  Trade  As- 
sociation (EFTA),  and  the  following  year  joined  the  Organisation 
for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development  (OECD — see  Glos- 
sary). Portugal  signed  a  free-trade  agreement  with  the  European 
Economic  Community  (EEC — see  Glossary)  in  1972  and  gained 
admittance  to  the  Council  of  Europe  (see  Glossary)  in  1976.  In 
1988  Portugal  became  a  member  of  the  Western  European  Union 
(WEU— see  Glossary). 

Portugal's  application  to  the  EC  in  1977  marked  a  major  change 
in  its  relationship  with  Europe.  After  years  of  negotiations,  it  was 
granted  admission  on  January  1,  1986.  Becoming  part  of  the  EC 
affected  not  only  the  country's  economy  but  also  government  and 
society  (see  Foreign  Economic  Relations,  ch.  3).  As  the  poorest 
member  of  the  EC ,  Portugal  would  receive  large  grants  from  the 
EC  bodies  to  bring  the  country's  infrastructure,  living  conditions, 
and  education  up  to  the  level  of  the  community's  other  members. 
The  formation  of  the  EC '  s  single  market  in  1 993  would  be  another 
step  toward  Portugal's  integration  into  Europe. 

As  a  result  of  these  and  many  other  international  ties,  tradition- 
al issues  of  whether  Portugal  would  be  First,  Second,  or  Third 
World,  socialist  or  capitalist,  European  or  South  Atlanticist  were 
no  longer  issues  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s.  Portugal  had  be- 
come part  of  the  community  of  Western,  European,  democratic 
states.  Nevertheless,  Portuguese  worry  at  times  whether  their  coun- 
try's identity  may  be  lost  in  this  larger  community  and  whether 
its  industry  and  commerce  will  be  able  to  compete  in  the  large  tariff- 
free  single  market.  Although  it  has  prospered  since  it  joined  the 
EC  in  1986,  the  real  economic  challenges  will  come  in  the  1990s. 

EC  membership  has  meant  that  Portugal  has  close  voluntary  re- 
lations with  Spain  for  the  first  time  in  its  history.  Until  then  Por- 
tugal had  maintained  a  wary  distance  from  its  large  neighbor, 
although  once,  against  its  will,  it  had  actually  been  a  part  of  Spain 
for  sixty  years  (1580-1640).  For  the  most  part,  however,  Portugal 
has  looked  to  its  alliance  with  Britain  for  support  in  remaining  in- 
dependent. Although  the  Portuguese  no  longer  believe  that  Spain 
poses  a  military  threat,  they  are  concerned  that  the  stronger  Spanish 
economy  could  gradually  absorb  them. 

After  the  revolution,  relations  between  the  two  countries  were 
tense  at  times.  As  a  means  of  tempering  disputes,  a  treaty  of  1977 


215 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

set  up  a  Luso-Iberian  Council  to  promote  cooperation.  In  addi- 
tion, the  countries'  prime  ministers  have  held  occasional  summit 
meetings  since  1983.  The  most  serious  disagreements  have  cen- 
tered on  the  access  of  Spain's  modern  fishing  fleet  to  Portuguese 
waters.  Spain  won  on  this  issue  but  made  some  economic  conces- 
sions to  Portugal  in  return. 

Some  of  the  tensions  between  Portugal  and  Spain  during  the 
1980s  had  a  military  origin,  however.  When  Spain  joined  NATO 
in  1982,  the  Portuguese  feared  that  an  Iberian  Command  would 
be  created  with  the  result  that  Portuguese  forces  would  come  un- 
der the  control  of  Madrid.  Portuguese  objections  to  this  proposal 
ended  when  Spain  was  included  under  the  Supreme  Allied  Com- 
mander Europe  (SACEUR).  Portugal  kept  its  long-standing  role 
under  NATO's  Supreme  Allied  Commander  Atlantic  (SACLANT) 
(see  Portugal  and  NATO,  ch.  5). 

Portuguese  ties  with  Britain,  also  an  Atlantic  power,  date  from 
the  signing  in  1386  of  the  Treaty  of  Windsor,  the  longest-lasting 
alliance  in  the  Western  world.  The  two  countries  had  long  secured 
mutual  benefits  from  this  treaty.  Portugal  sought  British  protec- 
tion against  Spain  and  later  France;  Britain  saw  Portugal  as  its 
point  of  access  on  the  European  continent  when  other  avenues  were 
closed.  This  was  the  case  at  times  during  the  Napoleonic  period 
and  during  World  War  II  when  Britain  was  allowed  to  use  the 
Azores  for  military  purposes.  Also  binding  the  countries  together 
was  substantial  British  investment  over  the  centuries,  most  nota- 
bly in  Portugal's  wine  and  port  industries. 

Portugal  traditionally  has  maintained  good  relations  with  France, 
mainly  to  balance  Spain's  power.  Portugal  also  has  strong  feelings 
of  affinity  with  France,  and  French  intellectual  trends  have  had 
a  steady  following  in  Lisbon.  French  influence  is  seen  in  the  Por- 
tuguese legal  system  and  administrative  system.  Until  recently, 
when  it  was  displaced  by  English,  French  was  the  second  language 
of  educated  Portuguese.  Many  working-class  Portuguese  also  have 
links  with  France.  During  the  1950s  and  1960s,  some  three-quarters 
of  a  million  Portuguese  emigrated  to  that  country  in  search  of  work. 

United  States 

The  United  States  and  Portugal  traditionally  have  considered 
each  other  friends  and  allies.  These  sentiments  were  reinforced  by 
the  large  number  of  Portuguese  immigrants  to  the  United  States 
and  the  growing  economic  and  political  importance  of  this  Por- 
tuguese community.  Since  1943,  when  the  United  States  built  the 
Lajes  Air  Base  on  Terceira  Island  in  the  Azores,  American  interests 
in  Portugal  have  been  mainly  strategic  and  military.  In  return  for 


216 


Government  and  Politics 


the  use  of  this  vitally  important  base,  the  United  States  gave  mili- 
tary aid  to  Portugal.  Portugal  also  benefited  from  the  European 
Recovery  Program  (ERP),  more  commonly  known  as  the  Mar- 
shall Plan.  During  the  1960s  and  early  1970s,  however,  relations 
between  the  two  countries  were  sometimes  strained  because  the 
United  States  took  an  anticolonial  stand  with  regard  to  Portuguese 
Africa. 

United  States  officials  were  not  worried  initially  by  the  Revolu- 
tion of  1974.  They  assumed  that  General  Spinola,  a  military  man 
and  a  conservative,  would  maintain  control.  As  the  revolution 
moved  sharply  to  the  left,  however,  and  it  appeared  possible  the 
PCP  might  come  to  power,  United  States  officials  became  uneasy. 
Frank  Carlucci,  the  United  States  ambassador  in  Lisbon,  directed 
a  campaign  to  aid  democratic  groups.  The  United  States  and  its 
NATO  allies  provided  assistance  to  the  Socialists  and  Socialist  trade 
unions  because  they  were  viewed  as  the  best  alternative  to  a  Com- 
munist takeover.  The  United  States  also  sought  to  rally  the  moder- 
ate elements  within  the  military  and  in  Portugal  generally.  The 
campaign  paid  off  as  Portugal  remained  democratic. 

United  States  assistance,  presence,  and  involvement  remained 
high  during  the  late  1970s.  But  as  Portuguese  politics  came  to  resem- 
ble those  of  other  West  European  nations  during  the  1980s,  United 
States  assistance  declined.  In  1983  the  base  agreement  was 
renegotiated,  but  Portuguese  officials  were  subsequendy  disappoint- 
ed by  a  reduction  in  American  military  aid.  As  part  of  the  base 
agreement,  the  Luso- American  Development  Foundation  was  creat- 
ed to  promote  economic  and  cultural  ties  between  the  two  coun- 
tries. The  next  base  negotiations,  scheduled  for  the  early  1990s, 
are  certain  to  be  onerous  as  the  two  countries  each  seek  to  realize 
their  respective  aims.  The  United  States  will  continue  to  have  a 
keen  interest  in  the  Lajes  Air  Base,  the  only  such  base  available, 
while  Portugal,  less  dependent  on  the  United  States  as  it  becomes 
integrated  into  Europe,  will  have  a  strong  hand  at  the  negotiating 
table  (see  Bilateral  Military  Relations  with  Other  Countries,  Ch.  5). 

Other  Countries  and  Areas 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  Portugal  still  retained  a  special 
interest  in  its  former  colony  Brazil,  although  the  Portuguese  con- 
tinued to  occasionally  look  down  on  Brazilians  as  "people  from 
the  tropics,"  just  as  Brazilians  had  their  own  jokes  about  the  Por- 
tuguese. Relations  between  the  two  countries  were  shaped  by 
Brazil's  much  greater  size  and  more  powerful  economy.  For  this 
reason,  Brazilian  investment  in  Portugal  in  the  1970s  and  1980s 
was  considerably  greater  than  Portuguese  investment  in  Brazil. 


217 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Brazilian  telenovelas  (soap  operas)  also  dominated  Portuguese  tele- 
vision, leading  to  additional  resentments.  In  general,  however, 
relations  between  the  two  countries  are  good,  although  as  of  the 
early  1990s,  any  "special"  relationship  was  now  largely  histor- 
ical, cultural,  and  nostalgic,  rather  than  a  reflection  of  concrete 
interests. 

Portugal  also  seeks  to  maintain  good  relations  with  North  Afri- 
can and  Middle  Eastern  countries,  in  part  because  of  geography 
and  in  part  because  Portugal  depends  entirely  on  imported  oil.  Its 
"tilt"  toward  the  Islamic  countries  sometimes  produced  strains  in 
United  States-Portuguese  relations,  particularly  when  the  Middle 
East  was  in  turmoil  and  the  United  States  wished  to  use  its  bases 
in  the  Azores  in  pursuit  of  its  own  Middle  Eastern  policies. 

East  Timor,  Portugal's  former  colony  on  the  eastern  half  of  the 
island  of  Timor  in  Indonesia,  remained  a  concern  for  Lisbon  in 
the  early  1990s.  Portuguese  setders  first  came  to  the  island  in  1520, 
but  it  was  not  until  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century  that 
Portugal  had  control  of  the  territory.  In  1975  war  broke  out  be- 
tween rival  groups  striving  for  independence  from  Portugal.  Late 
in  the  year,  Indonesian  troops  invaded  to  stop  the  fighting,  and 
in  1976  East  Timor  was  declared  part  of  Indonesia.  As  of  the  early 
1990s,  continuing  resistance  on  the  part  of  Timorese  guerrillas 
against  Indonesian  rule  had  claimed  the  lives  of  as  many  as  100,000 
people. 

As  of  the  early  1990s,  the  UN  continued  to  regard  Portugal  as 
the  administering  authority  in  East  Timor.  Portuguese  officials, 
for  their  part,  believed  that  their  country  had  a  moral  obligation 
to  remain  involved  in  the  affairs  of  its  former  colony.  Through  a 
variety  of  diplomatic  moves,  Lisbon  attempted  to  move  the  Indone- 
sian government  to  arrange  a  settlement  that  could  bring  peace 
and  even  independence  to  East  Timor.  Indonesia  refused  to  loosen 
its  hold  on  the  territory  because  it  feared  such  an  action  might  em- 
bolden other  areas  restive  under  its  control,  such  as  West  Irian, 
to  seek  independence. 

*    *  * 

During  the  Salazar  era,  the  authoritarian  nature  of  the  regime 
made  it  difficult  to  carry  out  serious,  scholarly  research;  in  the  im- 
mediate aftermath  of  the  Revolution  of  1974,  some  of  the  research 
was  partisan  and  ideological.  More  recently,  a  wealth  of  scholar- 
ship has  begun  to  emerge. 

The  Salazar  era  is  covered  in  Antonio  de  Figueiredo's  Portugal: 
Fifty  Years  of  Dictatorship;  Hugh  Kay's  Salazar  and  Modern  Portugal; 


218 


Government  and  Politics 


and  Howard  J.  Wiarda's  Corporatism  and  Development.  Richard  Alan 
Hodgson  Robinson's  Contemporary  Portugal  and  Tom  Gallagher's 
Portugal:  A  Twentieth  Century  Interpretation  are  thoughtful  and  ana- 
lytical introductions  to  Portuguese  affairs.  Especially  valuable  are 
the  edited  volume  by  Lawrence  S.  Graham  and  Harry  M.  Mak- 
ler,  Contemporary  Portugal,  and  that  by  Graham  and  Douglas  L. 
Wheeler,  In  Search  of  Modern  Portugal,  incorporating  papers  from 
the  meetings  of  the  Conference  Group  on  Modern  Portugal. 

The  revolutionary  period  of  the  mid-1970s  is  covered  well  in  Ken- 
neth Maxwell's  articles  in  Foreign  Affairs  and  the  New  York  Review 
of  Books,  and  in  Douglas  Porch's  The  Portuguese  Armed  Forces  and  the 
Revolution.  A  more  specialized  account  is  Nancy  Bermeo's  The  Revo- 
lution Within  the  Revolution. 

Albert  P.  Blaustein  and  Gisbert  H.  Flanz's  Constitution  of  the  Coun- 
tries of  the  World  provides  a  text  and  commentary  on  the  constitu- 
tional changes  of  the  post-Salazar  period.  Good  treatments  of 
political  events  and  of  the  main  forces  involved  are  in  Thomas  C . 
Bruneau's  Politics  and  Nationhood,  Bruneau  and  Alex  Macleod's  Pol- 
itics in  Contemporary  Portugal,  Walter  C.  Opello's  Portugal's  Political 
Development,  and  Portugal  in  the  1980s,  edited  by  Kenneth  Maxwell. 
A  skeptical  view  of  Portuguese  developments  is  provided  in  Howard 
J.  Wiarda's  The  Transition  to  Democracy  in  Spain  and  Portugal;  a  more 
hopeful  perspective  by  the  same  author  is  Politics  in  Iberia.  (For  fur- 
ther information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


219 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


Afonso  Henriques,  patron  of  the  Portuguese  Armed  Forces, 
at  the  Battle  of  Ourique  in  1139 


IN  THE  SEVENTEEN  YEARS  following  the  Revolution  of  1974 
that  restored  democratic  rule  to  Portugal,  the  armed  forces  under- 
went striking  changes.  The  counterinsurgency  warfare  of  1961-74 
in  Angola,  Mozambique,  and  Portuguese  Guinea  (present-day 
Guinea-Bissau)  brought  an  expansion  of  the  personnel  strength  of 
the  armed  forces  to  250,000.  By  early  1992,  however,  military  forces 
were  down  to  about  61 ,000.  The  army,  reduced  to  scarcely  20  per- 
cent of  its  peak  strength,  suffered  by  far  the  greatest  cut. 

The  drastic  contraction  of  the  armed  forces  was  accompanied 
by  a  redefinition  of  the  nation's  security  policies.  Until  1974,  the 
resources  of  all  three  services  were  dedicated  to  suppressing  the 
independence  movements  of  the  African  territories.  Although  Por- 
tugal was  one  of  the  original  members  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty 
Organization  (NATO),  its  principal  contribution  was  in  the  form 
of  strategic  facilities,  notably  the  United  States  base  in  the  Azores 
(Agores),  which  was  viewed  as  indispensable  for  reinforcing  the 
alliance  in  the  event  of  conflict  with  the  Soviet  and  Warsaw  Pact 
forces.  Portugal  did  maintain  two  army  divisions  at  home,  one 
committed  to  NATO  and  the  other  to  the  defense  of  the  Iberian 
Peninsula  under  the  terms  of  a  long-standing  treaty  with  Spain, 
the  Iberian  Pact  (also  known  as  Treaty  of  Friendship  and  Non- 
aggression).  Both  divisions  were  staffed  far  below  their  author- 
ized strengths. 

After  the  restoration  of  elective  government  in  1976,  Portugal 
adopted  a  more  active  role  with  respect  to  NATO.  Determined 
to  offer  more  than  basing  facilities,  it  committed  itself  to  maintain 
a  modern  army  unit,  the  First  Composite  Brigade,  for  potential 
deployment  in  northeastern  Italy  under  NATO  command.  A  Spe- 
cial Forces  Brigade  and  a  number  of  thinly  staffed  and  under- 
equipped  infantry  and  artillery  regiments  were  responsible  for  the 
defense  of  continental  Portugal  and  the  Azores  and  Madeira  ar- 
chipelagoes. The  navy  and  air  force  were  reorganized  to  empha- 
size defense  against  potential  maritime  threat  in  the  waters  within 
the  Portugal-Madeira-Azores  triangle  (also  known  as  the  strategic 
triangle). 

The  equipment  of  the  three  services  was,  however,  approach- 
ing obsolescence,  and  they  were  ill-prepared  to  handle  the  new 
defense  obligations.  Portugal  depended  on  assistance  from  the 
United  States  and  other  NATO  allies  for  its  major  weaponry,  but 
the  rate  of  delivery  fell  short  of  essential  requirements.  Nonetheless, 


223 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

the  United  States  had  supplied  maritime  reconnaissance  aircraft 
and  had  agreed  to  furnish  F-16  interceptor  aircraft,  air  defense 
missile  systems,  and  a  variety  of  helicopters,  including  combat 
helicopters  needed  by  the  First  Composite  Brigade.  Germany  had 
provided  three  new  frigates,  giving  the  Portuguese  Navy  a  limited 
but  up-to-date  antisubmarine  capability. 

The  military-led  revolution  of  April  1974  dismantled  the  repres- 
sive system  established  by  Antonio  de  Oliveira  Salazar  and  main- 
tained by  his  successor,  Mar  cello  Jose  das  Neves  Caetano.  For  two 
years  after  the  1974  coup,  the  armed  forces  were  the  dominant  ele- 
ment in  the  political  system,  although  the  military  leadership  it- 
self was  torn  into  bitterly  competing  factions.  Under  the  constitution 
of  1976,  a  politico-military  body — the  Council  of  the  Revolution — 
retained  review  powers  over  the  actions  of  the  civilian  government. 
This  transition  stage  ended  in  1982  when  the  constitution  was 
amended  to  subordinate  the  military  to  the  elective  political  forces. 
The  National  Defense  Law,  passed  in  the  same  year,  limited  the 
mission  of  the  armed  forces  to  defense  of  the  country  against  ex- 
ternal threat,  contrary  to  the  traditional  view  of  senior  officers  that 
the  armed  forces  were  also  responsible  for  safeguarding  the  nation's 
internal  security  and  the  stability  of  its  institutions.  Although  the 
military  remained  involved  in  defense  policy  matters,  its  weight 
in  civilian  political  affairs  had  declined  with  the  reduction  in  the 
size  of  the  armed  forces  and  the  shrinking  military  threat  in  Europe. 

Historical  Background 

The  military  has  played  a  major  role  in  the  development  of  Por- 
tugal throughout  the  country's  history.  During  the  Middle  Ages, 
the  armed  forces  drove  the  Moors  out  of  the  country  and  resisted 
Spanish  attempts  to  end  Portugal's  newly  won  independence.  Dur- 
ing the  Renaissance,  Portuguese  navigators  and  explorers  estab- 
lished settlements  and  trade  routes  around  the  world,  and  the  armed 
forces  played  an  important  role  in  establishing  and  maintaining 
the  greatest  empire  then  known  (see  Maritime  Expansion,  ch.  1). 

The  glories  of  conquest  and  riches  of  trade  were  short-lived.  A 
military  disaster  took  place  when  King  Sebastiao  led  his  poorly  pre- 
pared army  to  defeat  against  the  Moors  in  Morocco  in  1578.  Por- 
tugal was  left  leaderless  without  a  legitimate  heir,  and  the  country 
soon  came  under  the  rule  of  Philip  II  of  Spain,  who  had  a  valid 
claim  to  the  throne.  Although  Spain  did  not  actually  occupy  Por- 
tugal, it  involved  Portugal  in  its  numerous  dynastic  and  religious 
wars.  As  a  result,  Portugal  lost  most  of  its  navy  when  it  joined  the 
Spanish  Armada  against  Portugal's  former  ally,  England.  Portugal 


224 


National  Security 


also  lost  much  of  its  empire  in  the  Far  East  to  the  Dutch  (see  Im- 
perial Decline,  ch.  1). 

After  Portugal  threw  off  Spanish  domination  in  1640,  it  created 
a  permanent  army  of  4,000  cavalrymen  and  20,000  infantrymen, 
based  on  a  conscription  system  covering  all  able-bodied  men.  Por- 
tugal renewed  its  alliance  with  England  and  was  subsequently  drawn 
into  many  European  wars  in  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  cen- 
turies. Portugal  was  occupied  by  Napoleon's  troops  in  1807.  Brit- 
ish forces  came  to  Portugal's  aid,  driving  the  French  out  of  the 
country  and  then,  using  Portugal  as  a  base  of  operations,  out  of 
Spain  in  1813.  During  the  middle  and  late  nineteenth  century,  the 
army  was  instrumental  in  the  exploration  and  effective  occupation 
of  Angola  and  Mozambique. 

A  military  revolt  ended  the  Portuguese  monarchy  in  1910.  Por- 
tugal attempted  to  maintain  neutrality  during  World  War  I  but 
was  drawn  into  the  conflict  both  in  Europe  and  in  Africa  and  fought 
on  the  side  of  the  Allies.  After  Germany  declared  war  on  Portugal 
in  March  1916,  some  200,000  men  were  conscripted.  An  expedi- 
tionary force  of  two  divisions  saw  service  in  France,  sustaining  heavy 
casualties  at  the  Battle  of  Lys  in  April  1918.  Other  troops  clashed 
with  the  German  East  African  colonial  army  in  Mozambique. 

The  First  Republic  (1910-26)  had  a  precarious  existence  marked 
by  a  rapid  turnover  of  governments,  coup  attempts,  and  plots. 
Eventually,  in  1926,  the  mounting  social  disorder  and  discontent 
over  the  civilian  governments'  interference  in  military  matters 
precipitated  an  unopposed  military  takeover.  Disagreement  among 
the  military  factions  over  the  goals  of  their  intervention  brought 
only  further  instability.  By  1928,  however,  anew  military-civilian 
cabinet  was  in  place  under  a  nonpartisan  president,  General  Os- 
car Fragoso  Carmona.  The  civilian  minister  of  finance,  Auconio 
de  Oliveira  Salazar,  became  the  most  powerful  figure  in  the  govern- 
ment. In  1932,  Salazar  was  appointed  prime  minister,  bringing 
the  military  dictatorship  to  an  end. 

The  Military  in  the  Salazar  Era 

The  new  prime  minister  was  able  to  counteract  anti-Salazar  sen- 
timent in  the  military  by  publicly  flattering  the  armed  forces  and 
by  exempting  them  at  first  from  ruthless  cuts  in  government  spend- 
ing. Although  the  backward  state  of  the  army's  weaponry  had  by 
1935  become  acute,  Salazar  refused  to  address  the  need  for  modern- 
ization until  the  army  reduced  its  overstaffing.  In  1936,  he  appoint- 
ed himself  minister  of  war  and  in  the  following  year  introduced 
a  major  reorganization,  including  the  pensioning  of  many  senior 
officers  to  clear  the  way  for  younger,  more  dynamic  officers.  Officer 


225 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

pay  remained  low;  marriages  had  to  be  approved,  and  officers  were 
pressured  to  choose  wives  from  the  wealthier  classes  so  they  would 
have  an  alternative  source  of  income.  The  effect  was  to  perpetuate 
familial  links  between  the  higher  military  and  the  economic  elites. 

Salazar  also  formed  several  paramilitary  organizations  to  offset 
the  army's  monopoly  of  armed  strength.  The  most  notable  of  these 
was  the  Portuguese  Legion.  Its  members  were  the  most  loyal  par- 
tisans of  Salazar' s  regime,  the  New  State  (Estado  Novo).  At  its 
peak,  the  legion  had  20,000  personnel  trained  and  commanded  by 
active  or  retired  army  officers.  It  was  subject  to  military  control 
when  called  upon  to  cooperate  with  the  regular  armed  forces. 
Although  not  formally  abolished  until  1974,  it  was  never  more  than 
a  militia  at  the  service  of  the  regime  and  presented  no  threat  to 
the  power  of  the  orthodox  military  establishment. 

Fearing  that  the  success  of  the  Spanish  republican  forces  during 
the  Spanish  Civil  War  would  lead  to  communist  domination  of  the 
Iberian  Peninsula,  Salazar  gave  material  and  diplomatic  aid  to 
Francisco  Franco's  nationalist  forces  while  maintaining  a  formal 
neutrality.  A  special  volunteer  force  of  18,000  led  by  regular  army 
officers  was  recruited  to  fight  as  part  of  Franco's  army.  When  the 
civil  war  ended  in  1939,  Portugal  and  Spain  negotiated  the  Treaty 
of  Friendship  and  Nonaggression  (Iberian  Pact).  The  pact  com- 
mitted the  two  countries  to  defend  the  Iberian  Peninsula  against 
any  power  that  attacked  either  country  and  helped  to  ensure  Iberian 
neutrality  during  World  War  II. 

The  Azores  were  considered  to  be  of  prime  strategic  importance 
in  the  war.  The  Allies  feared  a  possible  German  move  to  occupy 
the  islands  and  needed  their  naval  and  air  bases  to  combat  Nazi 
submarine  attacks  against  Allied  shipping  and  to  support  trans- 
atlantic air  links.  In  1943,  mindful  of  German  defeats  and  Portu- 
gal's treaties  with  Britain,  Salazar  acceded  to  Britain's  request  for 
facilities  in  the  Azores.  Later,  the  United  States  was  also  permit- 
ted to  establish  bases  in  the  islands.  Portugal  recognized  the  Ameri- 
can need  for  transit  facilities  to  support  its  continued  military 
presence  in  Western  Europe  after  the  war,  and  it  authorized  con- 
tinued use  of  the  Lajes  Air  Base  in  the  Azores  until  the  arrange- 
ment was  formalized  in  the  bilateral  Defense  Agreement  of  1951 
(see  Bilateral  Military  Relations  with  Other  Countries,  this  ch.). 

Portugal  became  one  of  the  twelve  charter  members  of  NATO 
in  1949.  Although  the  organization's  collective  security  provisions 
did  not  apply  to  Portugal's  overseas  possessions,  membership  in 
NATO  enabled  the  armed  forces  to  acquire  sophisticated  weaponry 
and  training  from  the  United  States  and  other  NATO  member 
countries.  However,  Portugal's  colonial  policies  after  fighting  began 


226 


National  Security 


in  Africa  in  1961  formed  an  obstacle  to  its  full  participation  in  the 
NATO  system. 

The  Role  of  the  Armed  Forces  in  Africa 

The  Portuguese  presence  in  Africa  dates  from  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury when  fuel  and  water  stations  were  established  for  ships  en- 
route  to  the  spice  market  of  Goa.  Portugal  neglected  these  outposts 
for  a  time  after  the  pepper  trade  declined.  British  and  German 
colonial  ambitions  after  1885,  however,  led  the  Portuguese  to  un- 
dertake a  series  of  military  campaigns  to  control  the  interior  of  An- 
gola, Mozambique,  and  Portuguese  Guinea.  The  effort  to  subdue 
the  African  colonies  was  a  slow  process  that  was  not  completed  until 
1915.  The  costly  campaigns  were  pursued  by  the  Lisbon  authori- 
ties to  maintain  prestige  and  to  keep  the  oversized  military  estab- 
lishment gainfully  occupied. 

Salazar  strongly  rejected  pressures  from  the  European  powers 
to  decolonize  after  World  War  II.  He  was  grimly  determined  to 
maintain  Portugal's  overseas  empire.  Salazar's  successor  in  1968, 
Marcello  Caetano,  continued  the  struggle  against  the  African  in- 
dependence movements  in  spite  of  its  drain  on  resources  and 
manpower. 

Angola 

The  first  uprising  against  Portuguese  rule  in  Africa  occurred  in 
Angola  in  March  1961,  when  primitively  armed  Bakongo  tribal 
nationalists  in  the  extreme  north  of  the  province  attacked  several 
coffee  plantations,  massacring  white  Portuguese  owners  and  their 
families,  as  well  as  black  African  workers  who  refused  to  cooper- 
ate. Bloody  retribution  followed  at  the  hands  of  local  whites  and 
blacks  who  had  suffered  at  the  hands  of  the  insurgents.  The  revenge 
killings  abated  only  in  May  1961,  when  10,000  troops  arrived  to 
reinforce  the  6,000  white  soldiers  and  a  similar  number  of  locally 
conscripted  Africans  already  in  Angola.  Under  the  leadership  of 
Holden  Roberto,  the  insurgents  found  sanctuary  across  Angola's 
northern  and  northeastern  borders  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  (present-day  Zaire).  Roberto's  group  eventually  became 
the  National  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola  (Frente  Nacional 
de  Libertacao  de  Angola — FNLA),  one  of  the  three  major  anti- 
Portuguese  guerrilla  forces.  Portuguese  units,  relying  heavily  on 
aerial  bombardment  and  strafing  attacks,  managed  to  stabilize  the 
military  situation  in  the  north.  They  brought  large  segments  of  the 
population  into  aldeamentos  (controlled  villages),  similar  to  the  stra- 
tegic hamlets  used  during  the  Vietnam  conflict. 


227 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

The  intermittent  warfare  dragged  on  into  the  mid-1960s,  and 
as  many  as  70,000  troops  (40,000  of  them  European)  were  involved 
in  the  Angolan  conflict.  By  1966,  two  rival  insurgent  groups  gradu- 
ally superseded  the  FNLA.  One  was  the  Popular  Movement  for 
the  Liberation  of  Angola  (Movimento  Popular  de  Libertacao  de 
Angola — MPLA),  a  communist-oriented  group  supported  militarily 
by  the  Soviet  Union  and  other  communist  countries.  The  other 
was  the  National  Union  for  the  Total  Independence  of  Angola 
(Uniao  Nacional  para  a  Independencia  Total  de  Angola — UNIT  A), 
based  among  the  Ovimbundu  in  the  south. 

From  the  mid-1960s  until  the  April  1974  coup,  Portuguese 
government  forces  were  generally  in  control.  Insurgency  continued, 
however,  as  long  as  the  guerrilla  movements  could  obtain  sanctu- 
ary in  neighboring  states.  The  long  years  of  conflict  increasingly 
damaged  the  morale  of  both  the  military  and  a  large  segment  of 
the  Portuguese  people.  A  few  months  after  the  revolutionary  govern- 
ment came  to  power  in  Lisbon  in  1974,  it  began  negotiations  with 
the  Angolan  factions.  Full  independence  was  granted  on  Novem- 
ber 1 1 ,  1975.  Portugal  officially  announced  its  losses  in  Angola  as 
1 ,526  killed  in  action  and  1 ,465  noncombat  deaths.  Other  sources 
estimated  a  much  higher  mortality  figure. 

Portuguese  Guinea 

In  Portuguese  Guinea  (present-day  Guinea-Bissau),  the  strug- 
gle against  Portuguese  rule  began  officially  in  January  1963, 
although  there  had  been  earlier  acts  of  sabotage  by  members  of 
the  African  Party  for  the  Independence  of  Guinea  and  Cape  Ver- 
de (Partido  Africano  pela  Independencia  de  Guine  e  Cabo  Verde — 
PAIGC).  PAIGC  was  a  Marxist  movement  guided  by  the  Maoist 
concept  of  achieving  revolution  through  the  rural  peasantry.  By 
1968  PAIGC  claimed  control  of  nearly  70  percent  of  the  territory 
and  half  the  population  of  the  province,  the  Portuguese  being  con- 
fined largely  to  the  towns  and  major  villages  of  the  coastal  area. 
Under  a  vigorous  new  governor,  General  Antonio  de  Spinola,  regu- 
lar forces  numbering  33,000  (about  half  Africans)  were  supplement- 
ed by  local  armed  militia  based  in  strategic  villages.  PAIGC 
nevertheless  kept  up  its  pressure  by  guerrilla  raids  mounted  from 
neighboring  Senegal  and  the  Republic  of  Guinea.  The  military  sit- 
uation was  already  deteriorating  in  1973  when  Soviet  surface-to- 
air  missiles  (SAMs)  were  introduced  and  a  number  of  Portuguese 
planes  were  shot  down.  Portuguese  pilots  became  reluctant  to  fly, 
and  as  a  result  Portugal  had  to  curtail  the  air  attacks  that  had  been 
highly  effective  against  guerrilla  operations. 


228 


National  Security 


After  Spinola  returned  to  Lisbon  in  1973,  military  morale  erod- 
ed because  the  soldiers  felt  that  they  were  fighting  an  unwinnable 
war  in  a  territory  of  little  value.  A  few  months  later,  the  revolu- 
tionary government  that  had  recently  come  to  power  in  Portugal 
began  negotiations  for  withdrawing  Portuguese  troops  from  the 
province.  Portugal  recognized  Guinea-Bissau  as  an  independent 
state  in  September  1974.  Portuguese  losses  in  Portuguese  Guinea 
were  reported  to  be  1,656  killed  in  action  and  696  noncombat 
deaths. 

Mozambique 

The  insurgency  in  Mozambique  began  in  the  extreme  northern 
areas  of  the  province  in  1964  and  was  led  by  guerrilla  forces  of 
the  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  Mozambique  (Frente  de  Liberta- 
cao  de  Mozambique— FRELIMO).  FRELIMO  was  well  armed 
by  various  communist  countries,  and  its  fighters  were  trained  by 
the  Chinese.  At  the  time  of  the  outbreak  of  hostilities,  Portugal 
had  about  16,000  troops  in  the  province,  all  deployed  in  the  north 
where  the  FRELIMO  attacks  were  concentrated.  For  several  years, 
Portuguese  forces  were  able  to  prevent  the  guerrillas  from  moving 
southward.  They  could  not  end  the  warfare,  however,  because  the 
guerrillas  had  a  sanctuary  to  which  they  could  retreat  and  a  con- 
stant source  of  arms.  Eventually  the  guerrillas  were  able  to  skirt 
the  Portuguese  strength  in  the  north  and  mount  incursions  into 
the  relatively  unprotected  center. 

Of  the  60,000  government  troops  ultimately  involved  in  Mozam- 
bique, 35,000  were  black  Africans,  10,000  were  white  Africans, 
and  the  remaining  15,000  were  from  Portugal.  This  relatively  large 
force  faced  approximately  8,000  insurgents.  Despite  this  numeri- 
cal superiority,  the  Portuguese  government  was  unable  to  counter 
the  guerrillas'  tactics,  which  included  ambushes,  selective  terrorism, 
and  severing  road  and  rail  links.  By  September  1975,  when  the 
former  province  became  independent  as  the  People's  Republic  of 
Mozambique,  Portuguese  losses  were  officially  reported  as  1,606 
killed  in  action  and  724  noncombat  deaths. 

Role  of  the  Military  in  Portuguese  Political  Life 

Throughout  the  nineteenth  century,  the  Portuguese  military 
played  a  prominent  role  in  national  life.  Although  the  army  was 
itself  divided  ideologically,  it  often  acted  as  a  liberal  influence  among 
the  political  groupings  striving  for  power.  During  the  events  lead- 
ing up  to  the  revolution  of  1910,  the  military  remained  on  the  side- 
lines, lending  strong  backing  neither  to  the  monarchy  nor  to  the 
republican  politicians.  When  the  revolt  broke  out,  loyalist  units 


229 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

were  of  little  help  to  the  monarchy  because  of  the  republican  sym- 
pathies of  junior  officers  and  sergeants. 

During  the  highly  unstable  First  Republic  (1910-26),  military 
power  seekers  frequently  dominated  the  political  scene.  The  army 
itself  became  severely  factionalized  as  a  result  of  its  involvement 
in  domestic  political  disputes.  The  junior  officers  who  carried  out 
the  coup  of  May  28,  1926,  were  united  in  little  more  than  their 
disdain  for  the  civilian  politicians.  Their  actions  were  also  inspired 
by  the  government's  failure  to  deal  with  their  grievances  over  pay, 
equipment,  discipline,  and  professional  status.  Political  turmoil  con- 
tinued unabated;  a  countercoup  in  1927  was  put  down  with  much 
bloodshed  and  harsh  punishment  of  the  troops  involved.  Salazar, 
then  a  civilian  university  professor,  was  appointed  minister  of 
finance  by  the  military  government  and  given  sweeping  powers 
to  curb  loose  spending  policies. 

Although  military  dissent  surfaced  several  times  after  Salazar' s 
elevation  to  prime  minister  in  1932,  he  was  able  to  keep  rebellious 
officers  under  control  without  depriving  the  many  officers  with  liber- 
al convictions  of  their  careers.  Nevertheless,  political  reliability 
rather  than  professional  competence  was  likely  to  determine  the 
rate  of  promotion.  Disillusioned  senior  officers  entered  hopeless 
presidential  contests  against  the  official  candidates,  who  were  also 
high  military  figures.  In  1958,  a  previously  solid  supporter  of  the 
regime,  General  Humberto  Delgado,  defied  Salazar  by  running 
against  the  official  candidate,  Admiral  Americo  Tomas.  Delgado 
was  easily  defeated,  but  he  received  a  quarter  of  the  vote,  con- 
sidered a  credible  showing.  In  1961  Salazar' s  unyielding  colonial 
policy  touched  off  a  major  conspiracy  in  the  senior  ranks  of  the 
military.  Salazar  succeeded,  however,  in  rallying  the  army  and 
paramilitary  forces  loyal  to  him  to  bring  about  a  rapid  collapse  of 
the  coup  attempt.  Dissent  within  the  military  did  not  vanish, 
however,  and  the  regime  remained  wary.  In  1965,  for  example, 
it  felt  sufficiently  threatened  by  the  presence  of  Delgado  in  neigh- 
boring Spain  that  its  intelligence  agents  assassinated  him. 

The  Military  Takeover  of  1974 

As  the  inconclusive  colonial  wars  of  the  1960s  and  early  1970s 
dragged  on,  support  for  them  turned  to  indifference  at  home.  Sepa- 
rated from  home  and  family  during  repeated  twenty-four-month 
tours  of  duty,  military  professionals  felt  increasingly  estranged  and 
demoralized.  White  officers,  especially  those  commanding  black 
troops,  were  often  hostile  to  the  white  settlers  over  their  treatment 
of  blacks  and  in  many  cases  were  sympathetic  to  black  aspirations 
for  freedom.  The  mounting  antiwar  sentiment  in  Portugal  was 


230 


National  Security 


reflected  in  a  growing  rate  of  desertion  and  failures  of  conscripts 
to  report  for  duty.  Evasion  of  combat  by  unenthusiastic  conscripts 
and  university  graduates  commissioned  as  junior  officers  (milicianos) 
became  increasingly  common.  Many  of  the  milicianos  formed  a  rad- 
ical element  that  agitated  against  Portugal's  involvement  in  over- 
seas wars. 

Traditionally,  the  officer  corps  had  been  the  preserve  of  young- 
er sons  of  wealthy  families  and  sons  of  officers  who  could  afford 
the  tuition  charged  by  the  Military  Academy.  Military  careers  were 
sought  by  wealthy  candidates  more  for  prestige  than  reward  be- 
cause pay  was  relatively  poor  compared  with  that  of  other  profes- 
sions. The  low  salaries  of  senior  officers,  however,  were  often 
augmented  by  remunerative  sinecures  as  corporation  board  mem- 
bers. Extended  periods  of  leave  to  work  in  the  private  sector  were 
not  unusual. 

In  1958  the  Military  Academy,  failing  to  attract  sufficient  num- 
bers of  cadets  needed  for  the  army,  ended  its  tuition  requirements, 
and  henceforth  the  student  body  was  dominated  by  sons  of  shop- 
keepers, smallholders,  and  lower-level  provincial  bureaucrats  who 
could  not  have  afforded  a  university  education  earlier.  This  new 
class  of  cadets  expected  that  after  graduation  they  would  enter  the 
peaceful  garrison  life  at  home  or  in  the  colonies  that  the  Portuguese 
army  had  known  for  generations.  Instead,  they  were  thrown  directiy 
into  the  colonial  wars  and  eventually  became  the  disgruntled  cap- 
tains who  instigated  the  revolution. 

A  number  of  events  in  the  1960s  and  1970s  helped  to  coalesce 
revolutionary  sentiment  in  the  military.  One  such  event  was  the  loss 
of  Portuguese  Goa.  In  1961  the  Portuguese  enclave  of  Goa  on  the 
coast  of  India  was  threatened  by  an  Indian  invasion  force  of  some 
30,000.  The  3,000  Portuguese  troops  in  Goa  were  badly  equipped 
and  unprepared  to  put  up  more  than  token  resistance.  In  spite  of 
Salazar's  insistence  that  the  colony  should  be  defended,  it  was  quickly 
overrun.  Salazar  punished  the  army  for  its  failure  to  make  a  stand 
by  ordering  a  number  of  dismissals  and  other  penalties.  The  army, 
in  turn,  blamed  the  Goan  debacle  on  Salazar  and  resented  the 
punishments  that  they  felt  humiliated  the  entire  officer  corps. 

Further  undermining  the  loyalty  of  career  officers  was  Decree 
Law  353-73,  issued  by  the  government  of  Prime  Minister  Marcel- 
lo  Caetano.  The  decree  law  stated  that  nonregular  officers,  in  most 
cases  milicianos  commissioned  after  a  short  army  course,  would  be 
permitted  to  convert  to  a  regular  commission  at  their  conscript  rank 
and  to  receive  the  same  consideration  for  promotion  as  those  who 
had  graduated  from  the  Military  Academy.  Career  officers  felt  that 
the  decree  undermined  their  status  in  the  army,  as  well  as  in  society. 


231 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

The  growing  dissatisfaction,  based  largely  among  junior  career 
officers,  led  to  the  formation  in  1973  of  the  Captains'  Movement. 
This  ad  hoc  committee  of  career  officers — mostiy  captains — initially 
banded  together  to  give  voice  to  their  professional  grievances.  In 
a  short  time,  the  captains  found  that  their  grievances  were  shared 
by  career  officers  of  the  navy  and  the  air  force,  as  well  as  noncareer 
officers  of  all  services.  The  Captains'  Movement  became  the  Armed 
Forces  Movement  (Movimento  das  Forcas  Armadas — MFA)  and 
emerged  in  November  1973  as  a  full-blown  dissident  group  whose 
clandestine  membership  ranged  across  the  political  spectrum.  In 
addition  to  the  question  of  professional  status,  officers  were  dis- 
contented over  their  low  pay  and  long  postings  abroad  under  harsh 
conditions.  They  were  also  disturbed  over  the  lack  of  modern  equip- 
ment to  match  the  arms  furnished  to  the  African  insurgents  by  the 
Soviet  Union,  the  East  European  countries,  and  China.  The  United 
States  and  several  other  NATO  countries  had  imposed  an  embar- 
go on  the  shipment  of  arms  to  Portugal  that  might  be  employed 
against  the  African  liberation  movements. 

Dissatisfaction  among  senior  officers  with  the  government's  con- 
duct of  the  colonial  wars  was  centered  in  two  groups.  The  right 
wing  was  associated  with  General  Kaulza  de  Arriaga,  the  former 
commander  in  chief  in  Mozambique,  who  conspired  to  seize  power 
to  enforce  a  military  solution  to  the  wars  in  Africa.  More  moder- 
ate officers,  such  as  Chief  of  Staff  General  Francisco  de  Costa 
Gomes  and  General  Spinola,  who  had  been  named  deputy  chief 
of  staff,  favored  negotiation  with  the  liberation  movements.  Spi- 
nola's  influential  book,  Portugal  and  the  Future,  advocating  a  loose 
confederation  with  the  African  colonies  because  military  victory 
was  impossible,  hardened  the  resolve  of  the  increasingly  radical 
MFA  plotters. 

In  March  1974,  when  Spinola  and  Costa  Gomes  failed  to  ap- 
pear at  a  public  ceremony  in  which  they  were  to  endorse  existing 
policy  in  Africa,  Caetano  fired  both  of  them.  A  premature  coup 
attempt  followed  Spinola' s  dismissal,  but  loyal  troops  turned  back 
a  column  marching  on  Lisbon.  No  shots  were  fired,  but  many 
officers  were  arrested  or  transferred.  Five  weeks  later,  on  April  25, 
1974,  the  main  group  of  MFA  conspirators  deposed  the  Caetano 
government  without  resistance  by  the  loyalist  forces.  The  chief  ar- 
chitect of  the  meticulously  planned  coup  was  the  leftist  Major  (later 
Brigadier  General)  Otelo  Saraiva  de  Carvalho. 

The  MFA  quickly  appointed  a  board  of  seven  officers — the  Junta 
of  National  Salvation — with  General  Spinola  at  its  head  to  govern 
the  country  according  to  the  MFA  program.  Assuming  power  for 
the  first  time  in  almost  fifty  years,  the  military  pledged  that  authority 


232 


National  Security 


would  be  transferred  to  a  new  government  when  constitutional  in- 
stitutions freely  chosen  by  the  people  had  been  established. 

Friction  developed  almost  immediately  between  the  then- 
anonymous  leadership  of  the  MFA  and  President  Spinola' s  junta 
over  the  issue  of  the  pace  and  direction  of  decolonization.  The  MFA 
favored  immediate  dissolution  of  the  links  with  the  colonies  and 
withdrawal  of  Portuguese  forces,  whereas  Spinola  favored  a  gradual 
solution  leading  to  limited  autonomy  within  a  Portuguese  federa- 
tion. Most  conscript  officers  and  men  were  anxious  to  abandon 
the  struggle  in  Africa  and  return  home.  Although  Spinola  had  wide 
popular  appeal,  his  position  was  shaky  because  he  was  viewed  as 
insufficiendy  committed  to  the  revolution  by  radicals  controlling 
the  MFA.  A  powerful  weapon  in  the  hands  of  the  MFA  was  an 
elite  military  organization — Continental  Operations  Command 
(Comando  Operacional  do  Continente — COPCON) — with  Car- 
valho  at  its  head.  Formed  in  July  1974  of  paratroopers,  marines, 
and  army  commandos,  its  mission  was  to  control  rising  political 
and  labor  violence  at  a  time  when  the  police  were  reluctant  to  ap- 
pear on  the  streets  to  enforce  the  law. 

In  September  1974,  after  his  rightist  supporters  attempted  without 
success  to  dislodge  the  left-wing  inner  circle  of  the  MFA  from  con- 
trol, Spinola  resigned  the  presidency.  The  leftist  climate  within  the 
military  strengthened  as  the  MFA  continued  to  shift  radical  officers 
into  key  positions  while  sidelining  those  considered  to  lack  revolu- 
tionary zeal.  Nevertheless,  when  officers  were  able  to  express  their 
choice  by  ballot,  support  for  the  left  wing  seemed  weak,  and  many 
officers  were  eager  to  return  to  the  barracks. 

After  conservative  military  units  backing  Spinola  mounted  an 
abortive  countercoup  in  March  1975,  Spinola  and  other  officers 
were  forced  to  flee  to  Spain  by  helicopter.  The  MFA  moved  rap- 
idly to  consolidate  its  control,  setting  up  a  Council  of  the  Revolu- 
tion that  consisted  of  the  leading  MFA  officers.  The  council  had 
the  power  to  control  the  presidency  and  a  veto  over  the  legislative 
process. 

Elections  held  for  the  Constituent  Assembly  in  April  1975  showed 
the  Communist  and  ultra-left  parties  to  be  in  the  minority.  The 
MFA  continued  to  advance  revolutionary  plans  but  became  increas- 
ingly factionalized  in  the  mounting  political  turbulence.  The  an- 
gry reaction  to  takeovers  of  the  pro-Socialist  opposition  newspaper 
and  of  the  Roman  Catholic  radio  station  by  ultra-leftists,  together 
with  attacks  against  Communists  by  conservative  northern  peasants, 
attested  to  a  shift  in  the  tide  against  radical  elements. 

Discipline  began  to  break  down  within  the  armed  forces  under 
the  anarchic  conditions  prevailing  in  the  late  summer  and  fall  of 


233 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


1975.  Moderates,  still  a  majority  among  the  officers,  gradually  im- 
proved their  position.  A  left-wing  coup  attempt  by  air  force 
paratroopers  and  various  Lisbon  army  detachments  was  decisive- 
ly put  down  by  a  well-organized  countercoup  on  November  25, 
1975.  COPCON  was  dissolved,  Carvalho  and  200  other  radical 
officers  were  arrested,  and  others  were  purged  from  the  armed 
forces.  With  the  moderate  element  of  the  MFA  firmly  in  charge, 
the  military  formally  agreed  to  hand  power  back  to  the  civilians 
after  a  new  constitution  was  drawn  up. 

The  Armed  Forces  in  Political  Life  after  1975 

The  Council  of  the  Revolution  relinquished  legislative  power  to 
the  national  parliament  elected  in  April  1976,  and  two  months  later 
executive  power  was  handed  over  to  General  Antonio  dos  Santos 
Ramalho  Eanes  upon  his  election  as  president.  Eanes  had  served 
briefly  as  army  chief  of  staff,  and  it  was  widely  felt  that  having 
a  military  man  as  president  would  reduce  the  likelihood  of  renewed 
military  involvement  in  politics.  Eanes  would  only  agree  to  become 
president  if  he  were  also  made  chief  of  staff  of  the  armed  forces. 
Thus  Eanes  served  as  both  president  and  chief  of  staff  until  1981, 
when  the  two  positions  were  separated.  In  1982  Eanes  was  deprived 
of  exclusive  power  to  select  the  chiefs  of  staff,  who  subsequently 
were  appointed  by  the  president  acting  upon  a  formal  proposal  of 
the  government.  Eanes  was  reelected  for  a  second  presidential  term, 
but  in  early  1986  he  was  succeeded  by  the  former  prime  minister, 
Mario  Alberto  Nobre  Lopes  Soares,  who  thus  became  the  first  non- 
military  head  of  state  in  sixty  years. 

Under  Article  273  of  the  constitution  of  1976,  the  armed  forces 
had  the  "historic  mission  of  guaranteeing  the  conditions  permit- 
ting the  pluralist  and  peaceful  transition  .  .  .  towards  democracy 
and  socialism."  Nevertheless,  under  Article  275,  the  armed  forces 
were  to  be  strictly  nonpartisan  and  were  not  to  use  their  arms  or 
their  ranks  to  "influence  or  impede  the  selection  of  a  particular 
democratic  path."  The  Council  of  the  Revolution  was  retained. 
Its  membership  consisted  of  the  president,  the  chief  and  deputy 
chief  of  staff  and  the  three  service  chiefs,  the  prime  minister  if  a 
military  person,  and  fourteen  MFA  officers.  The  council  advised 
the  president  on  the  selection  of  a  prime  minister  and  had  veto  power 
over  pending  legislation,  as  well  as  decision-making  power  over 
military  regulations  and  appointments.  The  MFA  leaders  declared 
that  they  had  no  desire  to  retain  these  powers  permanently  but  only 
until  the  democratic  system  was  fully  established. 

The  continued  existence  of  the  Council  of  the  Revolution  be- 
came a  political  issue  when  the  council  frustrated  the  government 


234 


Portuguese  marines  practicing  an  assault  landing 
Portuguese  infantry  during  an  air  assault  exercise 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Portugal,  Washington 


235 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

by  vetoing  a  number  of  laws,  including  those  dealing  with  mili- 
tary reform  and  the  denationalization  of  banks  and  industry.  In 
1982  a  center-right  coalition  government  that  had  run  on  a  plat- 
form of  constitutional  change  was  eventually  able  to  force  through 
amendments  that  dissolved  the  Council  of  the  Revolution  and  re- 
moved the  residual  military  powers  over  the  elected  civilian  govern- 
ment. The  council  was  replaced  by  the  Higher  Council  of  National 
Defense,  whose  powers  are  only  advisory  and  are  limited  to  ques- 
tions of  national  defense  and  the  organization,  functioning,  and 
discipline  of  the  armed  forces.  It  also  confirmed  officer  promotions 
to  general  rank.  The  revised  Article  273  of  the  constitution  re- 
stricted the  mission  of  the  armed  forces  to  "safeguarding  national 
independence,  the  integrity  of  the  territory,  and  the  freedom  and 
security  of  the  population  against  any  external  aggression  or  threat, 
while  respecting  democratic  institutions."  In  justifying  these 
changes,  the  minister  of  defense  explained  that  the  government 
"deemed  it  inadvisable  to  provide  legal  pretexts  which  might  one 
day  be  invoked  to  justify  appeals  for  the  intervention  of  the  mili- 
tary in  resolving  internal  political  problems  by  means  alien  to 
democracy  and  the  Constitution." 

The  subordination  of  Portugal's  military  to  the  civilian  authorities 
was  codified  by  the  National  Defense  Law  of  1982.  It  was  passed 
in  November  of  that  year  by  the  Assembly  of  the  Republic  over 
the  objections  of  President  Eanes  who  feared  that  the  armed  forces 
would  be  politicized  by  allowing  the  minister  of  defense  to  choose 
the  chief  of  staff  and  the  heads  of  the  three  services. 

In  spite  of  the  measures  taken  in  1982  to  divest  the  military  of 
its  remaining  political  powers,  the  military  retained  for  a  time  con- 
siderable weight  in  matters  of  security.  It  also  continued  to  feel 
a  measure  of  responsibility  for  maintaining  internal  stability.  In 
1982  for  example,  the  Association  of  the  25th  of  April,  a  club  domi- 
nated by  left-wing  former  members  of  the  MFA,  was  founded  to 
"fight  for  the  preservation  of  the  ideas"  of  the  revolution  of  April 
25,  1974. 

By  the  early  1990s,  however,  under  a  determined  prime  minister 
and  a  strong  minister  of  defense,  the  political  influence  of  the  mili- 
tary had  waned.  The  National  Defense  Law  of  1991  further 
strengthened  civilian  control.  The  law  increased  the  power  of  the 
chief  of  staff  and  made  him  directly  responsible  to  the  minister  of 
defense.  Senior  officers  regarded  as  troublemakers  or  too  active 
politically  had  been  eased  aside,  and  Portugal's  military  leader- 
ship differed  little  from  that  of  other  West  European  nations. 


236 


National  Security 

Strategic  Concepts  Underlying  the  Portuguese  Defense 
Posture 

Historically,  Portugal  has  had  two  essential  security  objectives: 
the  protection  of  its  colonial  empire  and  the  maintenance  of  its  status 
as  a  distinctive  national  entity  on  the  Iberian  Peninsula.  The  na- 
tion's geographic  position — a  band  of  territory  on  the  Atlantic  coast, 
isolated  from  the  main  powers  of  Europe — has  always  been  cen- 
tral to  its  strategic  thinking.  Portugal  has  never  been  strong  enough 
to  defend  itself  without  assistance,  but  it  had  a  long  tradition  of 
resistance  to  the  presence  of  foreign  troops  on  its  soil.  According- 
ly, it  has  followed  a  policy  of  aligning  itself  with  the  leading  naval 
power  of  the  time.  Its  alliance  with  Britain,  first  established  by  the 
1 386  Treaty  of  Windsor,  was  periodically  reaffirmed  until  the  twen- 
tieth century.  After  World  War  II  and  the  creation  of  NATO,  a 
close  relationship  with  the  United  States  came  to  be  regarded  as 
essential  to  preserving  the  country's  overseas  possessions.  The 
nation's  territorial  integrity  has  not  been  even  remotely  threatened 
since  the  Napoleonic  period,  nor  have  immediate  concerns  of 
national  security  been  the  most  compelling  factors  in  military 
planning  or  the  decision  to  join  NATO.  Rather,  the  country's  par- 
ticipation in  NATO  until  the  mid-1970s  was  primarily  aimed  at 
winning  political  and  military  support  for  its  colonial  policies  in 
Africa. 

Portugal  made  only  a  marginal  contribution  to  NATO  during 
the  Salazar  and  Caetano  eras,  and  its  involvement  in  Africa  alienat- 
ed it  from  the  other  members  of  the  alliance.  However,  the  prevail- 
ing Portuguese  attitude  after  1974  was  favorable  to  greater 
Portuguese  activity  in  NATO  and  the  defense  of  the  West,  based 
on  recognition  of  the  dangers  represented  by  the  Soviet  Union  and 
the  Warsaw  Pact.  Public  opinion  polls  in  Portugal  reflected  a  decid- 
edly pro- Atlantic,  pro-NATO  sentiment,  especially  when  compared 
with  that  of  other  countries  in  NATO's  southern  tier,  such  as  Spain 
and  Greece.  The  events  of  1974-75,  when  Portuguese  Communists 
gained  control  of  important  functions  of  the  state  and  deeply 
infiltrated  the  military,  solidified  the  majority  perception  that  the 
nation's  interests  lay  in  association  with  the  West  European  com- 
munity and  NATO.  The  upheavals  of  1974-75,  together  with 
Moscow's  role  in  supporting  the  African  liberation  movements, 
inclined  the  Portuguese  military  leaders  to  regard  the  Soviet 
Union  as  a  hostile  power  against  which  the  country  must  constantly 
remain  vigilant. 

In  geostrategic  terms,  the  country  is  perceived  as  a  narrow  strip 
along  the  Atlantic  flank  of  the  Iberian  Peninsula  that,  together  with 


237 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

the  archipelagoes  of  Madeira  and  the  Azores,  forms  the  Portuguese 
"strategic  triangle."  It  occupies  an  intermediate  position  between 
the  Atlantic  and  Mediterranean  areas  and  between  Europe  and 
Africa.  The  strategic  triangle  is  crossed  by  important  sea  and  air 
lines  of  communication,  linking  North  America  and  the  east  coast 
of  South  America  to  Europe,  southern  Africa  to  Europe,  and  the 
Mediterranean  lands  to  Northern  Europe.  In  the  event  of  an  East- 
West  confrontation,  the  defense  of  these  waters  would  be  impera- 
tive for  reinforcing  the  European  southern  flank.  The  Portuguese 
territories  and  waters  would  also  be  critical  to  control  over  the  Straits 
of  Gibraltar.  The  Lajes  Air  Base  in  the  Azores,  in  addition  to  its 
advanced  position  for  air  resupply,  is  ideal  for  surveillance  of  the 
Atlantic  and  the  conduct  of  antisubmarine  warfare.  As  stated  by 
United  States  Secretary  of  State  George  Shultz  in  1984:  "The 
Azores  base  is  pivotal  if  the  United  States  is  to  react  effectively  to 
military  challenges  in  Europe  or  to  threats  to  Western  security  out- 
side NATO." 

The  military  doctrine  incorporated  in  the  Portuguese  strategic 
concept  emphasizes  the  role  of  air  and  naval  components  to  protect 
communications  linking  the  Azores,  Madeira,  and  the  Portuguese 
mainland.  This  task  has  always  necessitated  the  employment  of 
naval  vessels  equipped  for  antisubmarine  warfare  and  the  use  of 
the  "angles"  of  the  strategic  triangle  as  bases  for  maritime  patrol 
and  interceptor  aircraft.  Another  part  of  Portuguese  strategic  thinking 
stresses  the  growing  ability  of  the  North  African  countries — Morocco, 
Algeria,  and  Libya — to  engage  in  modern  military  operations. 
Regional  or  religious  conflicts  in  the  area  or  the  establishment  of 
Soviet  basing  privileges  would  affect  NATO's  lines  of  communi- 
cations and  Portugal's  responsibilities.  Lisbon's  efforts  to  foster  good 
relations  with  the  North  African  countries,  especially  Morocco,  have 
as  one  objective,  therefore,  the  reduction  of  such  risks. 

Recognizing  that  with  the  withdrawal  of  Soviet  forces  from  Cen- 
tral Europe  and  the  dismantling  of  the  Warsaw  Pact  the  military 
threat  to  Europe  had  subsided,  the  Portuguese  political  leadership 
became  increasingly  reluctant  to  assume  financial  and  personnel 
commitments  needed  to  carry  out  NATO  missions.  As  of  early 
1993,  defense  strategy  was  clearly  at  a  transitional  stage.  According 
to  official  statements,  the  armed  forces  would  continue  to  be  scaled 
down  in  areas  of  secondary  importance,  while  efforts  would  be  made 
to  continue  modernization  and  to  achieve  high  operational  efficiency 
in  designated  areas,  notably  air  defense,  naval  patrols,  and  rapid 
reinforcement  capability  at  any  point  of  the  national  territory.  The 
break-up  of  the  Warsaw  Pact  has  not,  according  to  the  official  view, 
caused  all  threats  to  disappear.  There  is  no  guarantee  that  regional 


238 


National  Security 


crises,  low-intensity  conflicts,  and  religious  fundamentalism  will 
not  destabilize  nations  and  entire  regions.  Prime  Minister  Anibal 
Cavaco  Silva  pointed  out  in  May  1990  that  the  NATO  alliance 
had  served  peace  for  more  than  forty  years  over  a  vast  territory. 
It  would  be  rash,  he  said,  for  the  West  to  disarm  unilaterally  and 
hurriedly  and  for  the  existing  balance  in  Europe  to  be  jeopardized. 
Similarly,  Portugal  was  reluctant  to  assign  security  responsibili- 
ties to  the  European  Community  (EC — see  Glossary)  that  would 
diminish  the  standing  of  NATO  as  the  primary  instrument  of  col- 
lective self-defense. 

During  the  period  in  late  1990  leading  up  to  the  Persian  Gulf 
conflict,  Portuguese  political  leaders  supported  the  United  Nations 
(UN)  resolution  and  expressed  strong  solidarity  with  the  country's 
allies.  In  addition  to  quickly  approving  transit  facilities  in  the  Azores 
and  on  the  mainland,  Portugal  provided  medical  assistance  teams 
and  a  transport  plane  for  evacuating  refugees.  A  cargo  vessel  is 
assigned  to  support  the  movement  of  British  forces  to  the  Persian 
Gulf,  and  Portuguese  vessels  joined  NATO  standby  forces  in  the 
Mediterranean.  However,  the  government  announced  that  Por- 
tugal would  not  contribute  ships  or  troop  units  to  take  a  direct  part 
in  the  conflict,  a  decision  reportedly  received  with  discontent  by 
senior  military  officers. 

The  Armed  Forces 

The  three  services  of  the  Portuguese  armed  forces  had  a  com- 
bined personnel  strength  of  about  61,000  in  1992:  about  33,000 
in  the  army,  15,000  in  the  navy,  and  13,000  in  the  air  force.  The 
president  of  the  republic  is  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces, 
while  the  senior  military  officer  is  the  chief  of  staff  of  the  armed 
forces.  The  president's  formal  powers  include  the  right  to  declare 
war  and  appoint  the  chiefs  of  staff  from  names  proposed  by  the 
government  in  power.  The  president  chairs  the  Higher  Council 
of  National  Defense,  whose  members  are  the  prime  minister,  the 
minister  of  defense  and  other  cabinet  ministers;  the  chief  of  staff 
of  the  armed  forces;  the  three  service  chiefs  of  staff;  and  the  presi- 
dents of  the  regional  governments  of  the  Azores  and  Madeira  (see 
fig.  10). 

Prior  to  the  passage  of  the  National  Defense  Law  of  1982,  the 
military  controlled  the  passage  of  laws  affecting  the  armed  forces, 
established  budgetary  and  procurement  policies,  and  had  the  power 
to  veto  international  agreements  involving  national  defense.  The 
1982  law  was  intended  to  make  the  military  subordinate  to  civilian 
political  authority,  functioning  through  the  minister  of  defense,  in 
defense  policy  matters.  Successive  governments  were  reluctant  to 


239 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


240 


National  Security 


antagonize  the  military  establishment  by  depriving  it  of  its  former 
powers,  and  initially  the  chiefs  of  staff  retained  practical  control 
over  budgets,  strategic  options,  and  procurement  matters.  By  the 
early  1990s,  however,  civilian  authority  incorporated  in  the  1982 
law  was  being  more  rigorously  applied. 

Army 

The  army's  personnel  strength  was  estimated  at  about  33,000 
as  of  late  1991 .  About  75  percent  of  army  personnel  were  conscripts 
serving  a  twelve-month  period  of  service,  and  10  percent  were 
officers  of  both  career  and  conscript  status.  The  army  was  organized 
into  four  military  regions  (North  with  headquarters  at  Porto,  Cen- 
tral with  headquarters  at  Coimbra,  South  with  headquarters  at 
Evora,  and  Lisbon)  and  two  military  zones  (Madeira  with  head- 
quarters at  Funchal  and  Azores  with  headquarters  at  Ponta  Del- 
gada  (see  fig.  11). 

The  size  of  the  army  had  been  drastically  reduced  since  1974, 
when  it  consisted  of  21 1 ,000  soldiers  of  all  ranks,  the  bulk  of  whom 
were  committed  to  the  fighting  in  Africa.  During  the  colonial  wars, 
elements  of  two  divisions  remained  in  metropolitan  Portugal;  one 
of  these  was  earmarked  for  assignment  to  NATO's  Central  Region 
along  the  Rhine  River,  and  the  other  was  assigned  to  peninsular 
defense  in  the  framework  of  the  1939  Iberian  Pact.  Both  divisions 
were  below  50  percent  strength  and  were  equipped  with  outmod- 
ed weapons. 

Major  revisions  in  the  army  structure  have  occurred  since  the 
withdrawal  of  troops  from  the  colonies  in  1974.  Most  of  the  army 
is  organized  along  regimental  lines.  By  1992,  it  included  fifteen 
infantry  regiments,  six  artillery  regiments,  three  cavalry  regiments, 
two  engineering  regiments,  one  commando  regiment,  a  signals  regi- 
ment, and  a  military  police  regiment.  The  infantry  regiments  nor- 
mally consist  of  a  headquarters  battalion,  an  infantry  battalion, 
and  a  training  battalion.  New  recruits  are  immediately  assigned 
to  one  of  the  regiments,  where  they  receive  their  basic  training. 
The  infantry  regiments  bear  the  names  of  communities  within  the 
military  region  where  they  are  located.  Forces  in  the  Azores  and 
Madeira  are  designated  as  Home  Defense  Groups,  each  consist- 
ing of  two  infantry  battalions,  one  artillery  battalion  with  anti- 
aircraft and  coastal  guns,  and  support  units. 

The  army's  two  most  important  units  are  the  Special  Forces 
Brigade  and  the  First  Composite  Brigade  committed  to  NATO. 
Unlike  other  army  formations,  which  are  subordinate  to  regional 
military  commanders  in  the  areas  where  they  are  located,  these 
two  units  are  directly  subordinate  to  the  army  chief  of  staff.  For 


241 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


P 

ii 
in 

IV 

v 

VI 


International  boundary 
Military  region  boundary 
National  capital 
Populated  place 
NATO  headquarters 

Headquarters  of  military 
regions  and  zones 
Air  bases 

Naval  headquarters 
Lisbon  Military  Region 
South  Military  Region 
Central  Military  Region 
North  Military  Region 
Azores  Military  Zone 
Madeira  Military  Zone 
25     50  Kilometers 


0  25  50  Miles 

Inset  maps  for  Madeira  and  the 
Azores  not  in  scale 


A  p 


AZORES  V 

TERCEIRA  [ZJ 

SAO  MfGUE£Z^~f~^~\ 
Ponta  QelgacsT^,  


MADEIRA  VI 

MADE>BA^*£;ncM  ^ 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


Atlantic 
Ocean 


PusbonJ\ 

V~^^J%MontijoJt 


SPAIN 


Figure  11.  Major  Military  Installations,  1992 


purposes  of  logistics  and  administration,  however,  the  First  Com- 
posite Brigade  is  under  the  commander  of  the  Central  military 
region. 

The  Special  Forces  Brigade,  located  in  the  Lisbon  area,  is  com- 
posed of  2,000  men  organized  into  two  special  forces  battalions, 
one  infantry  battalion,  and  a  logistics  battalion.  However,  some 
units  are  only  earmarked  for  service  with  the  brigade  and  are  still 
carried  within  the  regimental  structure. 


242 


National  Security 


The  organization  of  the  First  Composite  Brigade  was  begun  in 
1976  to  replace  the  division  previously  committed  to  NATO.  The 
brigade  is  located  at  Santa  Margarida,  120  kilometers  northeast 
of  Lisbon,  and  maintained  at  90  percent  of  its  authorized  strength 
of  5,200.  Designed  to  conduct  delaying  and  defensive  operations, 
the  brigade  would  come  under  Allied  Land  Forces  Southern  Eu- 
rope (AFSOUTH)  in  periods  of  crisis  or  war.  It  has  taken  part 
in  NATO  exercises  in  northeastern  Italy.  Its  constituent  units  are 
one  mechanized  infantry  battalion  with  M-113  armored  person- 
nel carriers,  two  motorized  infantry  battalions,  one  armored  bat- 
talion equipped  with  M-48A5  tanks,  a  field  artillery  battalion 
equipped  with  155mm  self-propelled  howitzers,  an  armored  recon- 
naissance unit,  and  engineering  and  signal  companies. 

Beginning  in  1987,  the  army  acted  to  improve  the  combat  poten- 
tial of  the  First  Composite  Brigade,  particularly  in  overcoming  its 
weaknesses  in  antitank  weaponry  and  low-level  air  defense.  The 
First  Composite  Brigade  would  face  problems  of  transport  and  sup- 
ply if  deployed  in  Italy  at  a  distance  of  2,500  kilometers  from  its 
logistics  base.  Most  of  the  brigade  would  be  airlifted  to  its  assigned 
position,  with  the  heavy  equipment  to  follow  by  sealift.  Portugal 
does  not  have  sufficient  transport  aircraft  available  to  move  the 
unit  quickly,  nor  are  there  plans  to  position  equipment  in  Italy  in 
advance  of  the  troops. 

Newly  enlisted  army  personnel  are  generally  assigned  to  a  unit 
from  their  own  region  of  the  country,  where  they  also  receive  their 
basic  training.  After  about  six  months  of  service,  enlisted  men  who 
meet  educational  and  other  requirements  can  apply  to  the  sergeants' 
school  for  training  as  noncommissioned  officers  (NCOs).  Senior 
NCOs  can  qualify  for  commissions  after  attending  the  Higher  Mili- 
tary Institute. 

Discharged  personnel  are  assigned  to  the  reserves.  Conscripts 
are  carried  on  the  reserve  rolls  until  the  age  of  thirty-five.  There 
is  no  annual  training  period,  although  the  call-up  system  is  tested 
from  time  to  time. 

Young  men  aspiring  for  an  army  career  can,  after  completing 
high  school,  compete  for  places  at  the  Military  Academy  located 
near  Lisbon;  it  had  an  enrollment  of  about  500  in  1991.  Subse- 
quent training  of  officers  is  conducted  in  the  specialized  schools 
of  the  various  branches  of  the  service.  Advanced  officer  training, 
corresponding  to  the  Command  and  General  Staff  School  and  the 
Army  War  College  of  the  United  States  Army,  is  carried  out  at 
the  Institute  for  Higher  Military  Studies  in  Lisbon.  The  highest 
level  of  professional  education,  corresponding  to  the  United  States 
National  Defense  University,  is  the  National  Defense  Institute. 


243 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

The  students,  senior  officers  of  the  military,  high  civil  servants, 
and  leading  figures  in  the  private  sector,  devote  half  a  day  for  one 
year  to  the  program.  The  army  also  operates  prestigious  military 
academies  at  the  high- school  level,  primarily  for  the  children  of 
career  officers  and  NCOs  but  open  to  children  of  civilian  families 
on  a  restricted  basis.  Most  of  the  students  continue  on  to  universi- 
ty and  a  civilian  career  after  graduation. 

The  basic  infantry  weapon  of  the  Portuguese  army  is  the  Heck- 
ler and  Koch  7.62mm  G-3  rifle  manufactured  domestically  under 
a  German  license.  Armored  units  are  equipped  with  M-48A5  tanks 
and  M-113  armored  personnel  carriers  from  the  United  States, 
supplemented  by  wheeled  armored  vehicles  from  a  variety  of 
sources.  The  principal  antitank  weapons  are  TOW  (tube-launched, 
optically  tracked,  wire-guided)  and  Milan  wire-guided  missiles.  In 
addition  to  a  few  self-propelled  howitzers  assigned  to  the  First  Com- 
posite Brigade,  the  army  has  an  inventory  of  towed  field  guns  and 
coastal  artillery.  The  effort  to  modernize  the  NATO-earmarked 
First  Composite  Brigade  has  priority  on  resources,  which  means 
that  units  with  home  defense  missions  are  equipped  with  obsolete 
weapons.  Any  substantial  improvement  is  dependent  on  assistance 
from  the  United  States,  which  has  not  supplied  aid  on  the  scale 
needed.  It  is  possible  that  additional  armored  equipment,  modern 
artillery,  and  antitank  and  air  defense  weapons  will  become  avail- 
able after  deactivation  by  the  United  States  Army  under  the  1990 
Treaty  on  Conventional  Forces  in  Europe,  although  Portugal  faces 
competing  demands  by  other  NATO  countries  (see  table  12,  Ap- 
pendix). 

Navy 

Portugal  has  a  strong  maritime  tradition  dating  from  the  four- 
teenth and  fifteenth  centuries,  when  explorers  inspired  by  Prince 
Henry  the  Navigator  reached  Madeira,  the  Azores,  and  the  west 
coast  of  Africa,  rounded  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  and  sailed  on 
to  establish  the  sea  route  to  India  (see  Maritime  Expansion,  ch.  1). 
Although  traditionally  the  service  with  the  greatest  prestige,  the 
navy  declined  during  the  nineteenth  and  twentieth  centuries.  For 
a  period  in  the  1950s,  this  trend  was  reversed  when  modern  frigates, 
corvettes,  minesweepers,  and  patrol  vessels  are  acquired  through 
military  assistance  from  the  United  States.  After  the  Revolution 
of  1974,  the  number  of  operational  fighting  vessels  declined  by  more 
than  half,  from  forty  to  seventeen. 

During  the  colonial  wars,  the  navy  was  active  in  efforts  to  inter- 
dict guerrilla  movements  on  rivers,  lakes,  and  coastal  waters  of  Afri- 
ca. After  the  withdrawal  of  the  armed  forces  from  Africa,  the  navy's 


244 


National  Security 


emphasis  shifted  to  home  waters,  where  its  missions  have  been 
defined  as  protecting  the  sea  lanes  between  the  mainland  and  the 
islands  of  the  Azores  and  Madeira,  cooperating  with  the  other 
services  in  the  defense  of  Portuguese  territory,  patrolling  the  200- 
mile  Exclusive  Economic  Zone  (EEZ)  off  Portugal's  coast,  and 
meeting  Portugal's  NATO  responsibilities  in  the  Iberian  Atlantic 
Command  (IBERLANT)  zone  of  operations  (see  Portugal  and 
NATO,  this  ch.). 

The  chief  of  the  naval  staff  (an  admiral)  is  supported  by  the  vice 
chief  of  naval  staff  (a  vice  admiral),  the  continental  naval  com- 
mander (also  a  vice  admiral),  the  Azores  naval  commander  (a  rear 
admiral),  the  Madeira  naval  commander  (a  captain),  and  the  Ma- 
rine Corps  commandant  (a  captain).  The  main  naval  base  is  at 
Alfeite  near  Lisbon,  as  is  the  Naval  Academy.  The  continental  naval 
command  is  at  Portimao  on  the  south  coast.  The  commanders  in 
the  Azores  and  Madeira  exercise  the  concurrent  role  of  NATO  is- 
land commander. 

Between  the  end  of  the  colonial  wars  in  1974  and  1992,  the  navy's 
personnel  strength  decreased  from  19,400  to  15,300.  As  of  1992, 
about  5,000  of  the  navy's  personnel  were  conscripts  serving  for 
sixteen  months.  Standards  of  performance  and  motivation  of  career 
NCO  personnel  are  reported  to  have  been  affected  by  the  decline. 
Many  NCOs,  trained  at  considerable  expense  by  the  navy,  departed 
for  private- sector  employment.  Lack  of  advancement,  wage  levels 
not  commensurate  with  the  skills  involved,  and  the  diminishing 
prestige  of  naval  careers  are  said  to  be  contributing  factors.  As  a 
result  of  the  flight  of  technicians,  previous  training  and  fitness  stan- 
dards could  not  be  maintained. 

The  principal  combat  vessels  of  the  Portuguese  navy  are  four 
frigates  and  three  submarines  of  French  construction  and  ten  small 
frigates  (sometimes  classified  as  corvettes)  built  in  Spain  and  Ger- 
many. The  French  frigates  and  submarines  were  commissioned 
in  the  late  1960s,  and  the  corvettes  were  commissioned  between 
1970  and  1975,  although  they  were  later  modernized  by  the  addi- 
tion of  new  communications  and  electronics  gear.  The  navy  also 
operates  a  number  of  coastal  patrol  and  auxiliary  vessels  (see  table 
13,  Appendix).  Three  modern  MEKO-200  frigates  were  commis- 
sioned in  1991.  These  ships,  built  in  Germany  and  financed  with 
the  help  of  seven  NATO  members,  were,  at  3,200  tons,  much  larger 
than  any  other  vessels  in  the  existing  fleet.  They  were  to  be  armed 
with  torpedoes,  Harpoon  surface-to-surface  missiles,  the  Sea  Spar- 
row SAM,  and  advanced  sonar  and  fire-control  systems.  They 
would  also  accommodate  two  helicopters  for  antisubmarine  oper- 
ations. 


245 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Even  with  the  addition  of  the  MEKO  frigates,  Portugal  has  only 
a  limited  capability  to  carry  out  its  IBERLANT  responsibilities. 
The  main  potential  threats  are  submarines  that  might  interdict  the 
Atlantic  sea  lanes  and  mines  that  could  force  the  closure  of  ports. 
The  navy's  antisubmarine  warfare  capability,  although  improv- 
ing, is  still  deemed  deficient,  particularly  in  view  of  the  lack  of  air 
reconnaissance.  The  lack  of  minesweepers  to  operate  in  the 
Portugal-Madeira- Azores  triangle  is  a  further  shortcoming  in  view 
of  the  strategic  importance  of  this  zone  for  European  shipping.  The 
navy  has  plans  to  replace  its  submarines  and  to  purchase  ocean- 
going patrol  vessels  and  minesweepers,  but  it  is  not  clear  how  they 
would  be  financed. 

The  Marine  Corps  consists  of  2,500  men,  of  whom  approximately 
half  are  conscripts.  They  are  organized  into  two  infantry  battal- 
ions and  one  naval  police  battalion.  The  marines  are  trained  for 
small  amphibious  operations  and  shore  patrol  duties.  In  addition 
to  light  arms,  their  equipment  includes  wheeled  armored  vehicles, 
mortars,  and  landing  craft. 

Air  Force 

Although  the  Portuguese  air  force  did  not  become  an  indepen- 
dent service  branch  until  1952,  it  has  existed  since  1912.  Portuguese 
pilots  flew  missions  in  World  War  I,  and  Portuguese  aircraft  are 
involved  in  the  Spanish  Civil  War.  The  air  force  played  a  major 
role  in  the  colonial  wars,  attacking  guerrilla  raiding  parties,  sup- 
porting ground  troops,  and  performing  reconnaissance,  transport, 
and  medical  evacuation  missions.  During  this  period,  its  strength 
increased  from  about  12,500  in  1962  to  a  peak  of  21,000  in  1973. 
After  the  Revolution  of  1974  and  the  withdrawal  from  Africa,  air 
force  strength  shrank  as  low  as  8,000,  but  it  was  at  a  level  of  10,300 
in  1992.  This  total  included  3,000  conscripts  whose  service  obli- 
gation is  sixteen  months,  as  well  as  2,200  airborne  troops  who  were 
scheduled  to  be  shifted  to  army  command.  The  air  force's  sixteen 
squadrons  operate  from  seven  principal  bases,  including  six  in  con- 
tinental Portugal  and  Lajes  in  the  Azores.  One  battalion  of  the  air- 
borne brigade  is  at  the  Monsanto  Air  Base,  one  battalion  is  at 
Aveiro,  and  the  unit's  training  center  is  at  Tancos. 

The  air  force  has  a  reputation  as  a  well-trained,  dynamically 
led,  and  disciplined  service.  Its  aircraft  maintenance  and  overhaul 
facilities  at  Alverca  are  considered  to  be  excellent.  Nevertheless, 
it  has  not  had  a  clearly  defined  mission  since  the  end  of  the  Afri- 
can wars,  and  its  capabilities  are  limited  by  the  lack  of  up-to-date 
combat  aircraft.  With  the  exception  of  ten  Alpha  Jets  obtained  from 
France  and  Germany  in  the  early  1990s,  the  air  force  is  largely 


246 


Portuguese  Navy  frigate  of  the  Joao  Belo  class  in  a  live-fire  exercise 
A  Portuguese  Navy  frigate  of  the  Vasco  da  Gama  class 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Portugal,  Washington 


247 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

dependent  on  the  transfer  of  obsolete  aircraft  from  surplus  stocks 
of  other  NATO  members. 

The  backbone  of  the  air  forces  is  composed  of  two  squadrons 
of  A-7P  Corsairs  received  under  the  United  States  military  as- 
sistance program  between  1982  and  1985  (see  table  14,  Appendix). 
The  air  force  had  previously  been  dependent  on  Fiat  G-91s  in  the 
attack  role.  Deliveries  of  these  aircraft  from  the  German  air  force 
began  in  1965-66  as  partial  reimbursement  for  German  use  of  the 
Beja  Air  Base  for  training  purposes.  Portugal  has  no  planes  designed 
primarily  for  air  defense,  but  both  the  A-7Ps  and  the  Fiat  G-91s 
are  equipped  with  Sidewinder  air-to-air  missiles,  providing  them 
with  the  means  to  perform  a  secondary  air  defense  role. 

A  result  of  the  1989  review  of  the  Lajes  Air  Base  agreement  is 
the  delivery  of  seventeen  F-16A  fighters  and  three  F-16Bs  (train- 
ing versions)  from  the  United  States  beginning  in  1994.  Although 
these  are  earlier  models  of  the  highly  regarded  F-16  series,  the  in- 
troduction of  these  aircraft  will  represent  a  significant  upgrading 
of  the  Portuguese  air  defense  capabilities.  The  F16s  will  operate 
from  Monte  Real  Air  Base  and  from  two  forward  bases  in  Madeira 
and  the  Azores.  As  part  of  the  same  agreement,  Portugal  is  sched- 
uled to  receive  a  battery  of  Hawk  SAMs  and  associated  radar  to 
boost  its  air  defenses. 

In  1988  the  air  force  acquired  six  Lockheed  P-3B  Orion  mari- 
time reconnaissance  aircraft  that  had  previously  been  in  service 
in  the  Australian  air  force.  After  modernization  in  Portugal  by  the 
addition  of  newer  radar  and  navigation  systems,  acoustic  sensors, 
and  armaments,  the  aircraft  entered  service  in  1990.  Operating 
from  Montijo  Air  Base,  the  aircraft  provide  the  air  force  with  a 
patrol  capability  against  submarines  within  the  sea  space  linking 
Portugal  with  the  Azores  and  Madeira.  For  reasons  of  economy, 
however,  few  patrol  missions  have  been  flown. 

The  air  force  also  has  in  its  inventory  C-130H  Hercules  trans- 
port aircraft  intended  to  provide  partial  airlift  for  the  First  Com- 
posite Brigade  earmarked  for  NATO,  as  well  as  Spanish-built 
CASA  C-212  Aviocar  light  transports,  some  of  which  are  fitted 
for  additional  maritime  surveillance,  weather  reconnaissance,  and 
survey  missions.  Two  of  the  C-130s  are  scheduled  to  be  stretched 
to  increase  their  load  capacities,  and  an  additional  stretched  C-130 
is  to  be  acquired.  No  combat  helicopters  are  included  in  the  air 
force  inventory  of  aging  French-built  Alouettes  and  Pumas,  the 
survivors  of  a  considerable  fleet  of  helicopters  used  during  the  wars 
in  Africa.  Under  the  1989  Azores  review,  the  United  States  is  com- 
mitted to  supply  fifty-seven  combat,  antisubmarine,  and  transport 
helicopters. 


248 


National  Security 


A  major  component  of  the  air  force  modernization  plan  is  the 
introduction  of  an  air  command  and  control  system  for  the  plan- 
ning, tasking,  and  execution  of  air  operations,  including  coordi- 
nation with  ground  and  naval  forces.  The  system  will  be  linked 
to  the  Spanish,  French,  and  NATO  air  defense  systems.  Although 
NATO  approved  a  large  share  of  the  funding,  a  reassessment  is 
underway  in  light  of  the  dramatic  changes  in  the  European  securi- 
ty situation. 

The  Air  Force  Academy,  a  four-year  institution,  is  located  at 
Sintra  near  Lisbon.  Elementary  pilot  training  for  cadets  is  con- 
ducted on  Aerospatiale  Epsilons,  eighteen  of  which  were  acquired 
from  France  in  1989  for  assembly  in  Portugal.  Jet  basic  training 
follows  on  Cessna  T-37Cs  and  advanced  training  on  Alpha  Jets 
or  Northrop  T-38A  Talons.  Additional  officer  training,  carried 
out  at  the  Air  College,  consists  of  a  basic  command  course  for  lieu- 
tenants, a  command  and  staff  course  for  captains,  and  the  air  war 
course  for  colonels. 

The  air  force  faces  major  problems  arising  from  career  dissatis- 
faction among  its  highly  trained  personnel.  Pilots  are  requesting 
permission  for  transfer  to  the  reserves,  indefinite  leave,  or  perma- 
nent discharge.  As  of  the  early  1990s,  the  pilot  shortfall  was  esti- 
mated at  about  30  percent.  The  principal  reasons  are  economic. 
Even  with  flight  pay,  officers  earn  much  less  than  commercial  pi- 
lots. Air  force  pilots  also  complain  that  they  do  not  have  sufficient 
opportunity  to  develop  and  hone  their  skills.  Annual  flying  times 
for  pilots  and  crews  are  reportedly  well  below  the  NATO- 
recommended  minima  owing  to  budgetary  and  fuel  restrictions  and 
the  shortage  of  serviceable  aircraft. 

Conditions  of  Service 

The  armed  forces  entered  a  period  of  transition  in  the  early 
1990s  that  was  the  source  of  considerable  uncertainty  and  turmoil 
among  professional  personnel.  The  severe  cutbacks  in  the  size  of 
the  military  establishment,  particularly  the  army,  and  the  unset- 
tled status  of  the  military  role  and  missions  had  a  demoralizing 
effect.  Career  prospects  seemed  increasingly  circumscribed,  and 
the  government's  budgetary  measures  made  the  armed  services 
seem  unattractive  in  comparison  with  the  opportunities  in  civilian 
life.  The  promotion  possibilities  were  limited  by  the  excessive  num- 
ber of  officer  personnel.  As  of  1988,  the  army's  personnel  strength 
had  been  reduced  to  only  20  percent  of  its  strength  in  1974.  Yet 
during  the  same  period,  the  officer  complement  had  fallen  by  lit- 
tle more  than  half.  The  air  force  and  the  navy  experienced  more 
moderate  reductions  in  staffing  between  1974  and  1988.  Naval 


249 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


officer  strength  had  declined  slightly,  but  the  number  of  air  force 
officers  had  actually  increased. 

The  armed  forces  had  formerly  been  admired  as  the  defenders 
of  democracy  for  their  role  in  the  toppling  of  the  Salazar-Caetano 
regime  in  1974.  Military  officers  sensed  that  their  profession  had 
since  suffered  a  decline  in  social  status  and  prestige  and  that  they 
were  regarded  by  the  public  as  superfluous.  The  historic  left-wing 
and  right-wing  factions  from  the  1974-76  period  were  still  distin- 
guishable in  the  officer  corps,  although  younger  officers  who  had 
entered  the  service  since  the  end  of  the  colonial  wars  represented 
a  separate  and  growing  category.  The  upsurge  of  discontent  against 
the  government's  perceived  indifference  to  career  military  personnel 
was  common  to  all  elements,  however. 

The  armed  services  are  forbidden  by  law  from  forming  unions 
to  express  their  demands.  This  prohibition  has  been  skirted  by  the 
formation  of  sergeants'  "movements"  and  periodic  large  dinner 
gatherings  among  the  officers.  NCOs  have  also  staged  mild  demon- 
strations to  draw  attention  to  their  grievances.  NCO  advisory  com- 
missions have  been  established  by  the  government,  but  these  have 
proven  to  be  ineffective  because  the  officers  representing  the  mili- 
tary establishment  have  no  authority  to  negotiate  over  the  issues 
raised.  The  NCOs  have  sought  the  elimination  of  promotions  out- 
side the  normal  sequence,  reduction  in  the  maximum  time  served 
at  each  grade,  greater  access  to  officer  training  courses,  improve- 
ment in  salary  scales,  and  earlier  retirement.  Although  sergeants 
could  attain  officer  rank  after  attending  the  Higher  Military  Insti- 
tute, few  could  hope  to  be  promoted  beyond  captain  because  of 
insufficient  vacancies  at  the  major  level.  Naval  NCOs  have  sought 
more  training  opportunities  and  the  establishment  of  new  special- 
ties. The  sergeants  have  called  for  an  updating  of  the  Code  of  Mili- 
tary Justice  and  Military  Disciplinary  Regulations,  including  the 
right  of  assembly  and  association. 

In  addition  to  the  general  feeling  that  salary  levels  do  not  cor- 
respond to  the  demands  and  risks  associated  with  the  military  profes- 
sion, officers  feel  that  special  benefits  they  previously  enjoyed  are 
being  curtailed,  including  extra  tax  exemptions,  subsidized  gaso- 
line, and  overtime  pay.  Prices  for  food  at  military  commissaries 
are  no  longer  significantly  below  prices  in  civilian  outlets.  The 
officers  have  sought  a  lowering  of  age  limits  on  active  duty  at 
the  upper  ranks  as  a  means  of  increasing  opportunities  for  ad- 
vancement. 

The  length  of  compulsory  military  service  was  a  subject  of  con- 
tention in  the  early  1990s,  and  the  outcome  is  likely  to  have  a 
pronounced  effect  on  the  future  status  of  the  career  service  and 


250 


Jet  fighters  of  the  Portuguese  Air  Force 
Air  Force  personnel  manning  a  control  tower 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Portugal,  Washington 


251 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

on  the  effectiveness  of  the  armed  forces.  The  army  service  obliga- 
tion, which  had  been  twenty-four  months  at  the  end  of  the  coloni- 
al wars  in  1974,  had  been  reduced  to  sixteen  months  by  1984  and 
to  twelve  months  in  1990.  Conscripts  in  the  air  force  and  navy 
served  for  sixteen  months.  In  1989,  of  80,000  young  men  eligible 
for  military  service,  60,000  are  deemed  physically  fit,  although  only 
45,000  were  actually  inducted.  In  1990  the  number  of  inductees 
was  lowered  to  35,000.  Those  considered  first  for  exemptions  from 
service,  in  order  of  priority,  are  married  men,  heads  of  households, 
and  only  sons. 

Conscientious  objector  status  is  recognized,  although  under  the 
law,  those  granted  exemption  from  active  service  are  required  to 
perform  civil  defense  duties.  Over  4  percent  of  those  on  enrollment 
lists  file  applications  as  conscientious  objectors.  Few  young  people 
acknowledge  the  need  for  military  service,  viewing  it  as  a  waste 
of  time  during  a  prime  period  of  their  lives.  The  youth  branches 
of  the  main  political  parties  are  among  those  groups  advocating 
a  shorter  period  of  military  service. 

One  plan  for  reducing  the  period  of  conscription  to  four  months 
is  under  discussion  in  the  early  1990s.  Under  the  plan,  20,000  con- 
scripts would  be  in  the  service  at  any  single  time,  10,000  would 
be  undergoing  a  two-month  period  of  accelerated  training,  and 
10,000  would  be  serving  in  their  units.  A  safety  clause  would  per- 
mit the  minister  of  defense  to  extend  the  period  of  service  to  eight 
months  for  the  army  and  twelve  months  for  the  navy  and  air  force 
if  the  needs  of  the  services  were  not  being  adequately  met.  The 
government  plan  called  for  the  introduction  of  two  new  recruit- 
ment systems:  one  for  volunteers,  who  would  serve  a  minimum 
of  eight  months,  and  another  for  contract  enlistments,  which  might 
be  as  long  as  eight  years,  to  attract  specialists  in  such  fields  as 
telecommunications,  electronics,  and  computer  technology.  It  was 
foreseen  that  the  eight-month  volunteers  would  be  attracted  by  a 
higher  wage  (about  US$200  a  month)  than  conscripts  and  incen- 
tives in  the  form  of  preferences  for  academic  study  and  careers  in 
the  police  services. 

This  much  discussed  service  plan  is  a  further  source  of  dis- 
satisfaction for  many  in  the  officer  corps  who  feel  that  the  four- 
month  term  of  service,  the  shortest  of  any  country  in  Europe,  would 
lead  to  a  military  establishment  that  is  more  costly  to  maintain  and 
only  marginally  effective.  Although  the  total  number  inducted 
each  year  would  increase,  the  time  allowed  for  training  is  regard- 
ed as  insufficient  to  teach  more  than  basic  infantry  skills  and  would 
seriously  degrade  unit  performance.  Doubts  have  been  expressed 


252 


National  Security 


over  the  adequacy  of  the  wages  and  incentives  offered  to  retain  a 
permanent  cadre  of  skilled  NCOs  and  specialists. 

Although  women  have  the  legal  right  to  volunteer  for  military 
duty  and  the  armed  forces  are  under  obligation  to  accept  them, 
it  was  only  in  the  late  1980s  that  a  few  women  with  special  qualifi- 
cations, such  as  doctors,  lawyers,  and  engineers,  were  taken  into 
the  officer  corps.  Several  women  were  also  enrolled  at  the  Air  Force 
Academy  to  train  as  pilots.  No  women  were  serving  in  the  enlist- 
ed ranks.  As  of  1991,  fewer  than  100  women  served  in  the  armed 
services,  fewer  than  any  other  country  of  NATO. 

Uniforms,  Ranks,  and  Insignia 

The  official  grade  structure  of  the  Portuguese  armed  forces  shows 
nine  officer  ranks  for  the  army  and  the  air  force  and  nine  for  the 
navy  (see  fig.  12).  The  rank  of  general  is  not  subdivided  as  in  the 
United  States  Armed  Forces.  Officers  of  the  highest  rank,  that  of 
general,  wear  three  stars,  except  for  the  chief  of  staff  of  the  armed 
forces  and  the  three  service  chiefs  of  staff,  who  wear  four  stars. 
The  rank  of  marechal  (fleet  admiral  in  the  navy)  is  honorary  and, 
as  of  early  1993,  is  held  by  only  two  persons,  both  retired  army 
generals.  The  army  and  air  force  each  have  nine  enlisted  ranks; 
the  navy  uses  only  seven  (see  fig.  13).  Officer  ranks  are  displayed 
by  peak  decorations  on  the  headgear  and  chin  cords.  The  peaked 
caps  of  all  three  services  also  bear  the  Portuguese  coat  of  arms. 

On  the  pale  gray  full-dress  uniform  of  the  army,  rank  designa- 
tions are  displayed  in  the  form  of  gorget  patches  for  general  officers 
and  cuff  bars  for  other  officers.  On  the  olive  green  service  uniform, 
usually  worn  with  shirt  and  tie,  shoulder  board  insignia  denote 
officer  ranks.  Shoulder  boards  or  sleeve  chevrons  are  worn  by  en- 
listed personnel  and  warrant  officers.  The  highest  NCO  rank  of 
first  sergeant  is  denoted  by  four  upward-pointing  chevrons. 

Army  fatigue  uniforms  are  olive  green,  and  combat  uniforms 
are  of  camouflage  material.  The  standard  headgear  for  enlisted  per- 
sonnel is  a  brown  beret  bearing  the  national  colors  of  red  and  green. 
Armored  troops  are  distinguished  by  black  berets,  and  paratroops 
wear  green  berets.  Special  forces  wear  distinctive  camouflage  uni- 
forms with  red  berets. 

The  air  force  uniform  is  light  blue  with  a  peaked  cap  as  stan- 
dard headgear  for  both  officers  and  NCOs  and  berets  for  other 
ranks.  All  ranks  wear  garrison  caps  with  nondress  uniforms.  Stars 
and  sleeve  rings  denoting  ranks  are  worn  on  the  sleeve  cuffs  of  officer 
uniforms.  Rank  chevrons  similar  to  those  of  the  army  are  worn 
on  the  shoulder  by  enlisted  personnel. 


253 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


254 


National  Security 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Navy  personnel  wear  either  blue  wool  or  white  cotton  uniforms 
for  shore  or  sea  duty.  In  either  case,  pullover  blouses  are  standard. 
Navy  enlisted  men's  headgear  is  similar  to  those  of  other  Europe- 
an navies — round  caps  with  the  name  of  the  ship  sewn  on  the  head- 
band. Peaked  caps,  bearing  the  state  arms  and  designating  rank 
by  peak  decoration,  are  worn  by  officers  and  petty  officers.  Ma- 
rines wear  dark  blue  berets.  Ranks  displayed  on  uniforms  consist 
of  sleeve  rings  for  officers  and  rank  chevrons  for  NCOs.  As  in  the 
other  services,  warrant  officers'  ranks  are  denoted  by  a  combina- 
tion of  chevrons  and  the  coat  of  arms. 

Defense  Expenditures 

The  Portuguese  defense  budget  was  197.5  billion  escudos 
(US$1.25  billion)  in  1989,  219.1  billion  escudos  (US$1.54  billion) 
in  1990,  and  206.8  billion  escudos  (US$1.73  billion)  in  1991  (for 
value  of  the  escudo — see  Glossary).  Over  the  period  1978-89,  the 
defense  budget  increased  by  an  average  of  1.9  percent  annually 
in  real  terms.  According  to  a  survey  by  the  United  States  Arms 
Control  and  Disarmament  Agency  (AC DA),  which  applied  cer- 
tain adjustments  to  the  official  figures  for  defense,  Portuguese  mili- 
tary expenditures  rose  in  real  terms  from  US$1 . 189  billion  in  1979 
to  US$1,457  billion  in  1989  (both  amounts  in  constant  1989  dollars). 

Portugal's  defense  outlays  are  the  lowest  in  NATO  with  the  ex- 
ception of  Luxembourg  (Iceland  has  no  military  forces).  In  terms 
of  defense  expenditures  per  capita,  Portugal  was  the  lowest  in 
NATO  (US$141  in  1989)  with  the  exception  of  Turkey.  However, 
in  terms  of  the  share  of  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glos- 
sary) allotted  to  defense,  most  NATO  countries  spent  less  than  Por- 
tugal. Portugal's  expenditures  on  its  military  establishment  had 
risen  from  4.5  percent  of  GNP  in  1960  to  8.3  percent  of  GNP  dur- 
ing the  course  of  the  colonial  wars.  In  the  1980s,  defense  expendi- 
tures averaged  3.43  percent  of  GNP.  Defense  outlays,  which  had 
constituted  26.7  percent  of  the  national  budget  in  1960,  rose  to 
nearly  46  percent  of  the  budget  during  the  peak  of  the  overseas 
wars  in  1971.  By  1977  defense  expenditures  had  declined  to  10  per- 
cent of  central  government  expenditures,  and  they  remained  be- 
low 10  percent  throughout  the  1980s. 

In  1988  expenditures  were  allocated  among  the  services  on  the 
following  basis:  army,  36.9  percent;  navy,  30.6  percent;  air  force, 
22.3  percent;  and  general  staff,  10.1  percent.  The  largest  expen- 
diture category  was  personnel  (64.5  percent),  among  the  highest 
in  NATO  and  exceeded  only  by  Belgium  and  Luxembourg.  The 
principal  cause  was  the  fact  that  the  rapid  decline  in  total  staff  was 
not  matched  by  a  decline  in  the  officer  roster.  Moreover,  pension 


256 


National  Security 


payments  to  demobilized  personnel  were  a  significant  cost  factor. 
Of  the  service  branches,  the  army  was  burdened  with  the  highest 
outlay  for  personnel,  amounting  to  80  percent  of  its  budget.  This 
outlay  was  attributable  in  part  to  the  large  number  of  officers  on 
active  duty  in  excess  of  the  army's  requirements.  By  comparison, 
60  percent  of  the  navy's  budget  was  absorbed  by  personnel  ex- 
penses. Portugal's  outlays  on  major  equipment  items  as  a  share 
of  the  defense  budget  (13.4  percent)  were  among  the  lowest  in 
NATO,  as  well. 

Portugal  and  NATO 

Portugal  was  one  of  the  founding  members  of  NATO  in  1949. 
For  more  than  two  decades,  Portugal's  material  contribution  to 
the  alliance  was  marginal.  Its  armed  forces  were  preoccupied  with 
the  fighting  in  Africa,  and  its  efforts  to  maintain  a  colonial  empire 
alienated  it  from  the  other  members  of  the  alliance.  Nevertheless, 
its  contribution  in  the  form  of  strategically  located  bases  and  other 
military  facilities  was  substantial.  Major  air  bases  and  ports  on  the 
Portuguese  mainland  were  deemed  vital  for  rapid  reinforcement 
and  sea  resupply  of  NATO  forces  on  the  continent.  Control  of 
Madeira  was  considered  crucial  for  keeping  the  North  Atlantic 
routes  to  the  Straits  of  Gibraltar  open  for  allied  operations.  The 
Azores  provided  essential  refueling  facilities  for  the  rapid  deploy- 
ment of  forces  to  Central  Europe,  the  Mediterranean  and  the  Mid- 
dle East,  as  well  as  a  key  base  for  antisubmarine  tracking  and  naval 
surveillance. 

In  the  immediate  postrevolutionary  period  when  leftist  ideolo- 
gy was  in  the  ascendancy  in  the  military,  the  question  of  Por- 
tugal's continued  active  participation  in  the  alliance  came  into 
question.  In  1975  Portuguese  representatives  absented  themselves 
from  highly  classified  NATO  discussions.  By  1980,  however,  Por- 
tugal had  returned  to  full  participation,  rejoining  NATO's  Nuclear 
Planning  Group  and  again  taking  part  in  NATO  exercises.  The 
establishment  of  a  pro- Western  democratic  government,  followed 
by  the  accession  of  Portugal  to  the  European  Community  (EC) 
in  1986,  inspired  renewed  interest  in  an  active  role  in  the  alliance. 
The  desire  to  provide  the  armed  forces  with  a  meaningful  military 
mission  after  the  African  operations  ended  and  to  divert  them  from 
further  involvement  in  civilian  politics  were  additional  factors  in 
Portugal's  willingness  to  undertake  fresh  NATO  commitments. 
Portugal  accordingly  accepted  the  obligation  to  equip  the  First  Com- 
posite Brigade  to  be  at  the  disposal  of  the  Supreme  Allied  Com- 
mander Europe  (SACEUR)  and  agreed  to  increase  its  surveillance 


257 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

and  control  over  a  large  sector  of  the  eastern  Atlantic  by  acquiring 
modern  frigates  and  reconnaissance  aircraft. 

The  Iberian  Atlantic  Command  (IBERLANT),  a  major  subor- 
dinate command  under  the  Supreme  Allied  Commander  Atlantic 
(SACLANT)  located  at  Norfolk,  Virginia,  has  its  headquarters  at 
Oeiras,  near  Lisbon.  Since  1982  the  IBERLANT  commander  has 
been  Portuguese,  a  vice  admiral  with  a  staff  of  about  sixty-five 
officers  and  200  enlisted  personnel  mainly  from  Portugal,  the  United 
States,  and  Britain.  IBERLANT  encompasses  the  area  extending 
from  the  northern  border  of  Portugal  southward  to  the  Tropic  of 
Cancer  and  approximately  1,150  kilometers  seaward  from  the 
Straits  of  Gibraltar.  Madeira  is  within  IBERLANT' s  area,  as  are 
the  Azores  after  transfer  from  NATO's  Western  Adantic  Com- 
mand (WESTLANT)  to  meet  Portuguese  concerns. 

The  IBERLANT  commander  has  no  permanendy  assigned  com- 
bat forces  in  peacetime.  The  IBERLANT  staff  carries  out  plan- 
ning and  conducts  exercises  to  ensure  the  headquarters'  readiness 
to  assume  command  and  logistic  support  of  forces  that  would  be 
assigned  in  a  period  of  tension  or  war.  In  addition  to  the  adminis- 
trative facilities  and  underground  command  post  at  Oeiras,  IBER- 
LANT has  extensive  communications  links  with  SACLANT  at 
Norfolk  and  other  command  posts.  Other  NATO  facilities  in  Por- 
tugal include  ammunition  and  fuel  depots  and  strategic  reserves 
at  Lisbon  and  a  reserve  airport  at  Ovar  near  Porto.  NATO  also 
occupies  a  portion  of  the  Montijo  Air  Base  for  the  same  purpose 
and  has  fuel  storage  areas  and  access  to  the  air  base  in  the  Azores. 
The  Portuguese  navy  participates  in  exercises  with  other  NATO 
fleets,  particularly  those  involving  protection  of  resupply  convoys 
in  the  IBERLANT  area. 

When  Spain  became  a  member  of  NATO  in  1982,  Portugal  is 
concerned  that  a  reorganization  of  the  NATO  command  structure 
might  follow.  Portuguese  misgivings  focused  on  the  possibility  that 
an  integrated  Iberian  command  would  be  formed  under  a  Span- 
ish commander  and  that  Spain  might  be  entrusted  with  security 
tasks  within  the  area  of  Portuguese  territories  for  which  the  Por- 
tuguese armed  forces  were  not  yet  fully  equipped.  After  Spain's 
decision  in  1986  to  remain  outside  NATO's  integrated  military 
structure,  however,  the  issue  of  assignment  of  commands  and  mis- 
sions in  the  Iberian  Peninsula  and  adjacent  sea  areas  became 
dormant. 

Bilateral  Military  Relations  with  Other  Countries 

Since  World  War  II,  Portugal  has  maintained  a  significant  level 
of  defense  cooperation  with  several  NATO  countries,  but  its  military 


258 


National  Security 


relations  with  the  United  States  have  been  of  paramount  impor- 
tance. The  United  States  was  granted  facilities  at  Lajes  Air  Base 
on  Terceira  Island  in  the  Azores  in  1944.  Under  a  1951  bilateral 
defense  agreement  and  subsequent  technical  agreements,  the  United 
States  has  continued  to  enjoy  access  to  this  base.  Lajes  has  been 
an  important  refueling  stop  for  military  transport  aircraft  and  a 
base  for  tanker  aircraft  to  refuel  fighter  aircraft  shutding  between 
the  United  States  and  Europe  and  the  Middle  East.  It  has  also  been 
a  base  for  American  antisubmarine  aircraft  that  patrolled  a  large 
sector  of  the  sealanes  linking  the  United  States  Sixth  Fleet  in  the 
Mediterranean  with  its  supply  depots  on  the  east  coast  of  the  United 
States.  As  of  1992,  the  United  States  had  about  1,200  air  force  per- 
sonnel in  the  Azores. 

The  use  of  the  Lajes  Air  Base  for  non-NATO  purposes  required 
prior  clearance  by  Portugal.  When  Israel  was  subjected  to  a  sur- 
prise attack  by  Egypt  and  Syria  in  October  1973,  the  Lajes  Air 
Base  was  used  to  support  the  emergency  transport  of  military  sup- 
plies to  Israel.  Portugal  was  the  only  NATO  country  to  grant  the 
United  States  the  use  of  its  facilities  during  the  1973  crisis.  When 
UN  forces  were  deployed  in  1990  in  response  to  the  Iraqi  occupa- 
tion of  Kuwait,  Portugal  gave  early  and  comprehensive  approval 
to  use  Lajes  and  mainland  bases  for  aerial  refueling  and  moving 
United  States  aircraft  and  equipment  to  Saudi  Arabia. 

The  1951  Azores  agreement  was  extended  in  late  1983  to  per- 
mit the  United  States  to  have  continued  use  of  Lajes  for  seven  years 
until  February  1991.  As  of  1993,  no  firm  settlement  had  been 
reached  to  extend  the  agreement.  As  part  of  the  1983  understand- 
ings, the  United  States  pledged  its  best  efforts  to  bring  its  military 
aid  up  to  an  annual  level  of  US$125  million.  Assistance  totaling 
US$90  million  was  provided  in  fiscal  year  (FY)  1984  and  US$105 
million  in  FY  1985  but,  owing  to  Congressional  reductions  in  the 
administration's  requests,  was  lower  in  subsequent  years.  Estimated 
military  assistance  obligations  in  FY  1990  were  US$84.6  million. 
Disappointment  expressed  by  the  Portuguese  prime  minister  with 
the  level  of  military  aid  under  the  1983  agreement  led  to  consulta- 
tions in  1988.  As  a  result,  the  United  States  agreed  to  supply  ad- 
ditional weaponry  to  help  Portugal  bring  its  NATO-committed 
forces  to  a  more  active  posture.  Portugal's  air  defense  capabilities 
were  also  to  be  strengthened  by  introducing  interceptor  aircraft 
and  modernizing  the  A- 7  squadrons.  Among  the  additional  items 
of  equipment  the  United  States  committed  itself  to  supply  were 
twenty  F-16  fighter  aircraft,  fifty-seven  helicopters  of  various  types, 
a  battery  of  Hawk  SAMs,  air  defense  radar,  vehicles,  ammuni- 
tion, and  a  hydrographic  vessel.  The  previous  delivery  of  P-3 


259 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


maritime  patrol  aircraft  and  the  United  States  contribution  to  the 
MEKO  frigate  program  were  aimed  at  augmenting  Portugal's  anti- 
submarine warfare  capability  in  the  Atlantic. 

The  United  States  has  also  provided  training  assistance  valued 
at  about  US$2.5  million  annually.  This  aid  enabled  more  than  500 
Portuguese  personnel  to  receive  professional  military  education  each 
year,  as  well  as  training  in  the  effective  use  and  maintenance  of 
weapons  systems  being  delivered  under  the  aid  program. 

The  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany)  has  also  been 
a  substantial  supplier  of  arms  to  Portugal,  transferring  excess  Fiat 
G-91  aircraft,  M-48A5  tanks,  trucks,  and  other  vehicles.  In  1986 
West  Germany  announced  that  about  US$200  million  would  be 
earmarked  for  the  construction  of  the  three  MEKO-200  frigates. 
The  West  German  air  force  maintains  eighteen  Alpha  Jets  at  Beja 
Air  Base  for  advanced  training  of  its  personnel  under  an  agree- 
ment dating  from  1960.  Both  the  United  States  and  Germany  use 
the  aircraft  repair  and  overhaul  facilities  at  Alverca  under  contract 
with  the  Portuguese  air  force.  Several  other  NATO  countries  have 
contributed  modestly  to  meet  Portugal's  military  needs,  including 
components  for  the  MEKO  frigates.  France  operates  a  missile- 
tracking  station  on  Ilha  das  Flores  in  the  Azores.  In  partial  compen- 
sation, France  provided  Epsilon  training  aircraft  to  the  Portuguese 
air  force  in  1989. 

According  to  data  compiled  by  the  ACDA,  the  value  of  arms 
transfers  to  Portugal  amounted  to  US$370  million  between  1984  and 
1988.  Of  this  total,  US$210  million  originated  in  the  United  States, 
US$30  million  in  West  Germany,  and  US$20  million  in  France. 
The  remaining  US$100  million  came  from  a  variety  of  suppliers. 

Domestic  Defense  Production 

Portugal  has  had  a  small  defense  industry  since  the  eighteenth 
century,  consisting  originally  of  a  naval  arsenal,  a  gunpowder  plant, 
a  cannon  foundry,  and  an  arms  factory.  Beginning  in  the  mid- 
nineteenth  century,  the  military's  food,  supplies,  and,  later,  fuels 
were  provided  by  a  government  agency,  the  Manutencao  Militar. 
At  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century,  a  factory  for  supplying 
military  uniforms  and  equipment  was  established.  During  the  1960s, 
the  defense  industry  expanded  to  meet  the  specialized  requirements 
of  the  antiguerrilla  operations  in  Africa.  However,  since  the  end 
of  the  fighting  in  1974  and  the  subsequent  scaling  back  of  the  armed 
forces,  production  capabilities  have  exceeded  the  country's  needs. 
A  modest  level  of  sales  abroad  have  helped  the  Ministry  of  Defense 
keep  production  lines  open  for  artillery,  mortar,  and  small  arms 
ammunition. 


260 


National  Security 


Under  Portuguese  law,  private  companies  are  not  permitted  to 
engage  in  research,  planning,  testing,  manufacturing  or  overhaul 
of  equipment  exclusively  intended  for  military  purposes.  These  laws 
have  been  interpreted  to  restrict  to  government-owned  enterprises 
the  production  of  bombs,  missiles,  torpedoes,  mines,  hand  grenades, 
propellant  powders,  and  other  explosives.  The  construction  of  com- 
bat aircraft,  helicopters,  and  warships  is  also  limited  to  nationally 
owned  companies,  although  component  manufacture  could  be  sub- 
contracted to  private  firms. 

In  addition  to  Manutencao  Militar,  the  principal  government 
enterprises  include  Oficinas  Gerais  de  Fardamento  e  Equipamen- 
to  (OGFE)  for  production  of  uniforms  and  equipment;  Oficinas 
Gerais  de  Material  de  Engenharia  (OGME)  for  the  overhaul  of 
military  vehicles;  and  Oficinas  Gerais  de  Material  Aeronautico 
(OGMA)  for  maintenance  and  repair  of  all  aircraft,  avionics,  en- 
gines, communications,  and  radar  equipment  of  the  Portuguese 
Air  Force.  OGMA  also  has  maintenance  contracts  for  United  States 
air  force  and  navy  equipment  and  to  supply  parts  and  components 
to  several  European  aircraft  manufacturers.  The  main  ordnance 
factory  is  Industrias  Nacionais  de  Defesa  E.P.  (INDEP),  a  producer 
of  60mm  and  81mm  mortars,  artillery  and  mortar  munitions,  small 
arms  ammunition,  machine  guns,  and,  under  a  German  license, 
the  Heckler  and  Koch  7.62mm  G-3  rifle  used  by  the  Portuguese 
army.  Arsenal  do  Alfeite  near  the  Lisbon  naval  base  has  facilities 
for  building  patrol  craft,  auxiliary  ships,  and  corvettes,  but  all  of 
its  larger  modern  vessels  have  been  constructed  abroad,  and  its 
activities  are  confined  to  maintenance  and  overhaul.  Bravia,  a 
private  company,  produces  a  range  of  wheeled  armored  personnel 
carriers,  reconnaissance  vehicles,  and  military  trucks. 

According  to  the  ACDA,  Portugal's  arms  exports  reached  a  peak 
of  US$220  million  in  1986,  falling  off  to  US$40  million  in  1989. 
In  the  latter  year,  arms  exports  accounted  for  only  0.3  percent  of 
total  Portuguese  exports.  In  1989  the  minister  of  defense  said  that 
the  defense  industry,  employing  3,000  to  4,000  people,  faced  con- 
traction because  fewer  countries  were  in  the  market  for  arms. 

Public  Order  and  Internal  Security 

Following  the  end  of  the  long  authoritarian  regime  in  Portugal 
in  April  1974,  the  system  of  internal  security  is  reorganized.  The 
Public  Security  Police  (Policia  de  Seguranga  Publica — PSP)  and 
the  National  Republican  Guard  (Guarda  Nacional  Republicana — 
GNR),  viewed  as  having  been  active  supporters  of  the  regime,  were 
put  temporarily  under  military  command.  As  of  1990,  internal  secu- 
rity is  the  responsibility  of  the  Ministry  of  Justice  and  the  Ministry 


261 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

of  Internal  Administration  (formerly  the  Ministry  of  Interior).  The 
forces  of  security  were  ctotrolled  by,  and  fully  responsible  to,  the 
government. 

The  revolutionary  turmoil  of  1974  to  1976  imposed  a  severe 
challenge  to  the  maintenance  of  law  and  order.  In  addition  to  oc- 
casional violence  by  leftist  and  rightist  groups,  the  emergence  of 
separatist  activity  in  the  Azores  and  Madeira  posed  threats  to  the 
territorial  integrity  of  Portugal.  After  constitutional  government 
was  established  in  1976,  political  violence  abated.  Between  1980 
and  1986,  however,  an  ultra  left-wing  terrorist  group,  Popular 
Forces  of  the  25th  of  April  (Forcas  Populares  do  25  Abril— FP-25), 
its  name  referring  to  the  coup  d'etat  of  April  25,  1974,  conducted 
a  campaign  of  bombing,  assassinations,  and  bank  robberies  (see 
Terrorist  Groups,  this  ch.). 

The  Police  System 

Although  the  main  duties  of  the  police  had  always  been  the 
prevention,  detection,  and  investigation  of  crime  and  the  main- 
tenance of  public  order,  their  involvement  under  successive  govern- 
ments in  suppressing  political  and  labor  organizations  left  a  reservoir 
of  fear  and  mistrust  among  the  Portuguese  people.  The  authority 
of  the  police,  which  was  identified  with  the  old  regime,  was  seri- 
ously compromised  by  the  Revolution  of  1974.  During  the  months 
after  the  revolution,  there  was  a  sharp  rise  in  crime  and  disorder 
owing  to  the  virtual  disappearance  of  social  and  moral  constraints 
imposed  by  tradition  and  reinforced  by  the  authoritarian  regime. 
Until  the  civilian  police  forces,  disarmed  after  the  revolution,  could 
be  reorganized  and  retrained  to  operate  in  Portugal's  new  politi- 
cal environment,  armed  forces  security  units  assumed  responsibility 
for  internal  security.  By  1976,  control  of  the  police  apparatus  was 
returned  to  civilian  authorities  in  the  Ministry  of  Internal  Adminis- 
tration. 

Article  272  of  the  constitution  of  1976,  as  revised  in  1982,  em- 
phasizes the  responsibility  of  the  police  to  defend  the  democratic 
process  and  to  ensure  that  they  act  within  the  law  and  do  not  ex- 
ceed their  authority.  In  carrying  out  their  mission  of  preventing 
crimes,  including  crimes  against  the  security  of  the  state,  the  police 
are  enjoined  to  observe  the  rights,  freedoms,  and  safeguards  of 
citizens.  The  constitution  stipulates  that  each  of  the  forces  of  secu- 
rity are  to  have  a  single  organization  for  the  entire  national  territory. 

National  Republican  Guard 

The  GNR  was  formed  in  1913  as  a  heavily  armed  paramilitary 
constabulary  organized  up  to  battalion  strength.  It  was  intended 


262 


National  Security 


as  a  check  against  the  military  and  was  first  employed  to  confront 
monarchist-inspired  revolts  within  the  ranks  of  the  armed  forces. 
Although  its  essential  mission  was  one  of  maintaining  order  in  the 
countryside,  the  GNR's  activities  were  subsequently  extended  to 
those  of  helping  the  urban  police  to  control  demonstrations  and 
quell  labor  unrest. 

In  1990  the  GNR  numbered  approximately  19,000  officers  and 
men  and  was  equipped  with  Commando  armored  cars  and  twelve 
Alouette  II  helicopters  transferred  from  the  German  army.  The 
guard  is  organized  into  battalions  stationed  in  the  major  cities  and 
companies  and  sections  in  district  capitals  and  smaller  communi- 
ties. Highway  patrols  are  conducted  by  a  separate  Traffic  Brigade 
and  by  rural  units  of  the  GNR. 

Reserve  and  career  officers  from  all  branches  of  the  armed  forces 
can  be  seconded  to  tours  of  duty  in  the  GNR  on  a  voluntary  basis. 
Reservists  who  are  university  graduates  can  apply  to  continue  as 
GNR  officers  upon  completion  of  their  military  obligations. 

Public  Security  Police 

The  PSP  is  a  paramilitary  police  force  under  the  jurisdiction  the 
Ministry  of  Internal  Administration.  Its  basic  mission  is  the  pro- 
tection of  property  and  public  security  in  urban  areas.  Before  its 
reorganization  in  1953,  the  urban  police  had  been  under  the  con- 
trol of  provincial  governors.  During  the  colonial  wars,  security 
police  assault  units  were  dispatched  to  Africa,  where  they  partici- 
pated in  combat  operations  against  guerrilla  forces.  The  PSP  was 
reorganized  and  retrained  in  1975,  and  its  heavy  equipment  was 
turned  over  to  the  army. 

PSP  detachments  operate  from  divisional  headquarters  in  Lis- 
bon and  from  the  eighteen  districts  of  continental  Portugal,  which 
are  divided  into  North,  South,  and  Central  zones.  There  are  also 
headquarters  for  Madeira  and  the  Azores  and  sectional  headquarters 
in  smaller  towns.  Greater  Lisbon  and  greater  Porto  have  separate 
commands.  A  specialized  traffic  service  shares  highway  patrol 
responsibilities  with  the  GNR  Traffic  Brigade.  A  special  group, 
the  Intervention  Police,  has  mobile  sections  poised  for  deployment 
anywhere  in  the  country.  Criminal  investigation  and  data  gather- 
ing are  centralized  under  the  General  Anti-Crime  Directorate, 
which  employs  1,500  specialized  officers  and  investigators.  As  of 
1990,  the  PSP  had  a  complement  of  17,000  individuals.  Staff  are 
drawn  from  among  former  service  personnel.  Since  the  early  1970s, 
women  have  also  been  recruited  for  plainclothes  investigations  and 
traffic  control  assignments. 


263 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


In  1989,  a  demonstration  by  some  1,000  police  personnel  out- 
side the  Ministry  of  Internal  Administration  took  a  violent  turn. 
The  police  had  tried  to  form  a  union,  but  the  government  rejected 
the  idea  on  grounds  that  the  police,  as  a  military  organization,  were 
prohibited  by  the  National  Defense  Law  of  1982  from  having  a 
union.  The  police  maintained  that  they  needed  a  union  to  improve 
working  conditions  that  were  marked  by  long  hours  and  low  pay. 
In  the  late  1980s,  for  example,  an  ordinary  patrol  officer  earned 
the  equivalent  of  only  US$390  a  month. 

Other  Police  Forces 

In  1990  the  Fiscal  Guard  (Guarda  Fiscal;  also  known  as  Trea- 
sury Police),  a  border  control  force,  numbered  8,500  and  was 
charged  with  customs  inspections  and  the  collection  of  import  duties. 
In  addition,  the  force  investigates  smuggling,  tax  evasion,  and  illegal 
financial  transactions,  particularly  those  involving  import-export 
businesses  and  currency  exchange.  Most  of  its  uniformed  and  plain- 
clothes police  are  stationed  at  frontier  crossing  points,  ports,  and 
terminals  of  entry.  Their  monitoring  of  entries  and  departures  by 
foreigners  also  produces  a  flow  of  information  needed  by  internal 
security  agencies.  The  Maritime  Police  has  functions  similar  to  a 
coast  guard  service.  The  Judicial  Police,  responsible  to  the  minister 
of  justice,  acts  in  conjunction  with  the  court  system  in  investigat- 
ing crimes,  particularly  those  involving  subversion  and  terrorism, 
and  preparing  cases  for  prosecution. 

Intelligence  Services 

The  existence  in  Portugal  of  an  intelligence  apparatus  for  polit- 
ical surveillance  and  control  is  as  old  as  the  modern  state  and  dates 
at  least  from  the  sixteenth  century.  Under  Salazar,  however,  a  secret 
police  organization  of  extensive  and  pervasive  influence  became 
a  formidable  component  of  his  authoritarian  regime.  The  secret 
police,  called  the  International  Police  for  the  Defense  of  the  State 
(Polfcia  Internacional  e  de  Defesa  do  Estado — PIDE),  although  un- 
der jurisdiction  of  the  Ministry  of  Justice,  was  in  fact  controlled 
directly  by  Salazar.  Under  revisions  of  the  law  after  1954,  PIDE 
officers  were  entitled  to  act  as  inquiring  magistrates  empow- 
ered to  detain  for  trial  persons  suspected  of  crimes  against  the  state. 
Suspects  were  routinely  arrested  without  warrants  and  often  held 
for  months  without  specific  charges  brought  against  them  and 
without  access  to  legal  assistance.  Disappearance  and  torture  were 
commonplace. 

Agents  of  PIDE  carried  out  covert  operations  within  communist 
organizations,  the  government-run  labor  unions,  the  armed  forces, 


264 


National  Security 


the  universities,  and  the  Portuguese  emigre  communities  abroad. 
During  the  1960s  and  1970s,  PIDE  directed  its  efforts  to  suppressing 
opposition  to  the  war  effort  in  the  African  colonies,  particularly 
on  university  campuses,  and  to  tracking  down  antiregime  terrorists 
responsible  for  bombing  military  and  strategic  installations. 

Although  PIDE  was  renamed  the  General  Security  Directorate 
(Direccao  Geral  de  Seguranca — DGS)  by  Marcello  Caetano's 
government,  it  retained  its  old  image.  The  abhorrence  felt  for  it 
was  so  strong  that  it  was  abolished  in  Portugal  the  day  after  the 
Caetano  regime  was  toppled.  Abuses  by  the  security  apparatus  were 
subsequently  reported  in  detail  in  the  Portuguese  press,  causing 
even  more  revulsion  among  the  public.  Outrage  over  the  prolonged 
detention  and  torture  of  suspected  terrorists  and  opposition  politi- 
cians resulted  in  the  arrest  of  PIDE-DGS  agents  and  investiga- 
tions of  past  operations  of  the  organization. 

The  lingering  specter  of  PIDE  and  DGS  as  pillars  of  the 
authoritarian  regime  in  the  memory  of  the  Portuguese  people 
delayed  the  establishment  of  a  new  civilian  intelligence  agency  for 
more  than  a  decade.  Following  an  Armenian  terrorist  attack  on 
the  Embassy  of  Turkey  in  1983,  the  assassination  of  a  Palestine 
Liberation  Organization  representative  at  a  Socialist  Internation- 
al conference  the  same  year,  and  a  number  of  domestic  terrorist 
attacks,  the  Portuguese  government  became  convinced  of  the  need 
for  a  new  intelligence  agency.  After  the  passage  of  authorizing  legis- 
lation in  late  1984,  the  Intelligence  System  of  the  Republic  of  Por- 
tugal (Sistema  de  Informacoes  da  Republica  Portuguesa — SIRP) 
was  established  in  1986.  SIRP  was  intended  to  be  the  parent  body 
for  three  separate  intelligence  services:  the  Security  Intelligence 
Service  (Servico  de  InformacSes  e  Seguranca — SIS),  the  Military 
Intelligence  Service  (Servico  de  InformacSes  Militares — SIM),  and 
the  Defense  Strategic  Intelligence  Service  (Servico  de  Informacoes 
Estrategicas  de  Defesa — SIED).  SIS,  under  the  minister  of  inter- 
nal administration,  was  given  the  mission  of  gathering  intelligence 
to  ensure  internal  security  and  to  prevent  sabotage,  terrorism,  es- 
pionage, and  acts  that  could  alter  or  destroy  the  constitutionally 
established  state  of  law.  SIM  was  intended  to  replace  the  Military 
Intelligence  Division  of  the  armed  forces,  but  the  transition  had 
not  been  effected  as  of  1993.  Military  intelligence  continued  to  be 
the  responsibility  of  the  chief  of  staff  of  the  armed  forces.  Its  authori- 
ty was  limited  to  gathering  intelligence  needed  to  carry  out  the  mis- 
sions of  the  armed  forces  and  to  guarantee  military  security, 
although  some  strategic  intelligence  collection  abroad  was  report- 
edly also  conducted. 


265 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Under  the  1984  legislation,  SIED,  reporting  directly  to  the  prime 
minister,  was  to  be  responsible  for  producing  intelligence  needed 
to  safeguard  the  independence  and  external  security  of  the  Por- 
tuguese state.  The  government  decided  to  defer  the  creation  of 
SIED,  however,  asserting  that  the  limited  financial  resources  avail- 
able should  be  dedicated  to  developing  an  effective  internal  secu- 
rity organization  rather  than  an  agency  focusing  on  external 
security.  Thus,  SIS  was  the  only  arm  of  the  intelligence  apparatus 
operating  as  contemplated  in  the  1984  legislation.  SIS  functions 
under  considerable  handicaps,  employing  only  about  eighty  per- 
sons as  of  1990.  Its  sole  office  is  in  Lisbon,  although  branches  are 
planned  for  Porto,  Ponta  Delgada,  and  Funchal.  SIS  agents  are 
not  authorized  to  make  searches  or  arrests,  to  intercept  correspon- 
dence or  tap  telephones,  or  to  intervene  in  normal  criminal  cases. 
Although  no  SIS  agents  are  known  to  have  been  exposed  to  vio- 
lence, they  are  entitled  to  hazardous  duty  pay  at  about  30  percent 
above  normal  civil  service  scales. 

The  1984  security  law  prohibited  the  employment  of  former  PIDE 
agents  in  any  Portuguese  intelligence  function.  Accordingly,  SIS 
was  launched  with  few  adequately  qualified  individuals.  In  spite 
of  a  public  recruiting  drive,  analysts  estimated  that  it  would  be  some 
years  before  Portugal  could  boast  of  a  domestic  intelligence  ser- 
vice staffed  with  fully  seasoned  personnel. 

In  light  of  the  history  of  violations  of  civil  rights  by  PIDE,  several 
bodies  were  formed  to  monitor  the  activities  of  the  Portuguese  in- 
telligence community.  The  Council  to  Oversee  the  Intelligence  Ser- 
vices, composed  of  three  deputies  elected  by  the  Assembly  of  the 
Republic,  is  mandated  to  review  the  actions  of  the  intelligence  ser- 
vices and  report  its  findings  annually  to  the  Assembly  of  the  Repub- 
lic. The  Commission  to  Control  Data,  made  up  of  three  judges, 
monitors  the  intelligence  data  center  to  protect  individuals  against 
any  collection  of  data  violating  their  rights  under  the  Constitution. 
The  Superior  Intelligence  Council,  a  twelve-member  intermini- 
sterial  body,  advises  the  prime  minister  and  coordinated  intelli- 
gence matters. 

Terrorist  Groups 

Since  the  transition  to  democratic  rule  was  completed  in  1976, 
the  country  has  been  relatively  free  from  subversive  or  terrorist 
activity  threatening  the  maintenance  of  constitutional  authority. 
The  only  significant  terrorist  group,  the  Popular  Forces  of  the  25th 
of  April  (Forcas  Populares  do  25  Abril — FP-25),  carried  out  a  num- 
ber of  attacks  between  1980  and  1986,  but  at  no  time  did  it  pose 
a  major  threat  to  the  security  of  the  state.  Effective  counterterrorism 


266 


National  Security 


measures  and  the  absence  of  public  support  sharply  curtailed  the 
ability  of  FP-25  to  sustain  its  campaign  of  violent  operations  against 
the  Portuguese  government  and  Western  and  NATO  missions  in 
Portugal. 

FP-25  claimed  to  be  a  workers'  organization  dedicated  to  a  strug- 
gle against  exploitation,  misery,  and  repression.  Its  stated  goals 
were  to  defeat  "imperialism,"  to  lead  a  "workers'  assault  on  bour- 
geois power,"  and  to  achieve  the  violent  overthrow  of  the  Por- 
tuguese government.  The  FP-25  also  bitterly  opposed  the  United 
States  and  NATO.  No  evidence  of  direct  ties  to  other  European 
terrorist  groups  existed,  although  Portuguese  authorities  asserted 
that  some  financial  support  had  come  from  Libya.  Between  1980 
and  1984,  most  FP-25  actions  involved  assassinations,  bombings, 
and  bank  robberies.  Beginning  in  1984,  the  group  focused  its  at- 
tacks on  United  States  and  NATO  targets.  Mortars  were  fired  at 
the  compound  of  the  Embassy  of  the  United  States,  at  NATO's 
IBERLANT  headquarters,  and  at  NATO  ships  anchored  in  Lis- 
bon harbor.  Bombs  destroyed  a  number  of  cars  owned  by  West 
German  air  force  personnel.  FP-25 's  ability  to  wage  its  terrorist 
campaign  was  curtailed  by  the  arrest  of  a  large  number  of  its  ad- 
herents in  June  1984,  including  Otelo  Saraiva  de  Carvalho,  who 
had  become  a  popular  hero  in  Portugal  after  playing  a  key  role 
in  the  Revolution  of  1974  (see  The  Military  Takeover  of  1974,  this 
ch.).  Other  obscure  radical  groups  claimed  responsibility  for  sub- 
sequent minor  bombing  attacks,  but  such  acts  of  terrorism  abated 
in  1987.  As  of  1993,  Carvalho  was  free  on  a  conditional  basis,  and 
the  issue  of  a  general  amnesty  for  members  of  FP-25  had  aroused 
wide  public  interest. 

Separatist  independence  movements  have  long  existed  in  the 
Azores  and  Madeira  archipelagoes.  The  main  group,  the  Azorean 
Liberation  Front,  has  been  responsible  for  many  demonstrations 
but  has  not  been  associated  with  clandestine  activities  and  violence. 
A  newer  group,  the  Azorean  Nationalist  Movement,  is  regarded 
as  illegal  because  Portuguese  law  prohibits  any  association  ad- 
vocating the  independence  of  the  Azores.  The  existing  system  of 
autonomy  recognized  by  the  constitution  of  1976  and  subsequent 
legislation  have  endowed  the  regional  governments  with  consid- 
erable rights  and  gready  reduced  the  appeal  of  the  separatist  move- 
ments. 

Judicial  System 

Restrictions  on  freedom  of  assembly  and  of  the  press,  on  the  rights 
of  association  and  of  public  protest,  and  on  the  right  to  strike  were 
removed  with  the  promulgation  of  the  new  constitution  in  April 


267 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

1976.  The  constitutionally  mandated  Council  of  Social  Commu- 
nication, whose  members  are  elected  by  the  Assembly  of  the  Repub- 
lic, act  as  a  watchdog  to  protect  freedom  of  speech  and  access  to 
the  media.  The  council  publicizes  abuses,  makes  recommendations 
to  the  Assembly  of  the  Republic,  and  has  enforcement  powers; 
however,  it  has  never  been  required  to  exercise  such  powers.  There 
are  two  restrictions  on  civil  liberties.  "Fascist"  organizations  are 
prohibited  by  law.  In  addition,  persons  can  be  prosecuted  for  "in- 
sulting" civil  or  military  authorities  if  such  an  "insult"  is  intend- 
ed to  undermine  the  rule  of  law.  Several  prosecutions  have  resulted 
under  these  provisions. 

The  constitution  of  1976  drastically  altered  the  role  of  the  police 
to  protect  civil  rights.  It  gives  guidelines  for  criminal  investigation 
and  treatment  of  suspects.  The  constitution  specifies  that  no  per- 
son can  be  held  without  trial  or  imprisoned  without  a  definite  sen- 
tence. Individuals  cannot  be  deprived  of  citizenship  for  political 
reasons.  The  principle  of  habeas  corpus  is  restated  and  is  applied 
without  exception  to  both  civilian  criminal  courts  and  military 
tribunals.  A  petition  for  a  writ  of  habeas  corpus  is  to  be  answered 
by  a  judge  within  eight  days.  Torture  and  inhumane  detention  are 
made  illegal.  Confessions  obtained  under  duress  and  any  material 
obtained  by  illegal  means  are  declared  inadmissible  as  evidence 
in  criminal  proceedings.  The  privacy  of  personal  correspondence 
and  telephone  communication  is  also  guaranteed  in  the  constitu- 
tion, and  forcible  entry  into  homes  and  searches  without  a  judicial 
warrant  are  forbidden. 

Criminal  Law  Procedure 

The  Portuguese  criminal  justice  system  is  organized  on  a  na- 
tional basis.  The  Ministry  of  Justice  has  control  over  the  court  sys- 
tem, the  office  of  the  attorney  general,  the  Judicial  Police,  and 
prisons.  The  office  of  the  attorney  general  has  a  hierarchy  parallel 
to  that  of  the  judiciary.  Its  representatives  prosecute  cases  in  each 
of  Portugal's  judicial  districts  and  their  subdivisions.  An  assistant 
deputy  attorney  general  prosecutes  cases  before  the  municipal  court 
at  the  local  level  or  municipality.  At  the  district  level,  above  the 
municipality,  the  deputy  attorney  general  represents  the  state  be- 
fore the  district  court,  which  houses  a  panel  of  one  to  three  judges 
to  determine  guilt  or  innocence  and  decide  the  sentence. 

Portugal  has  four  judicial  regions,  each  with  an  appeals  court 
having  appellate  jurisdiction  over  cases  tried  in  the  district  or  lower 
courts  in  its  area.  The  districts  are  Lisbon,  with  66  courts;  Porto, 
with  110  courts;  Coimbra,  with  80  courts;  and  Evora,  with  60 
courts.  Appeals  are  allowed  only  on  the  basis  of  judicial  error  in 


268 


National  Security 


the  original  proceedings.  Cases  tried  in  a  district  court  are  auto- 
matically reviewed  after  sentencing  by  the  appeals  court  of  the 
region.  The  Ministry  of  Justice  reviews  all  cases  and  can  intervene 
to  initiate  a  formal  appeal.  Because  the  appeals  process  is  often 
lengthy,  bail  is  frequently  allowed  the  accused  during  the  proceed- 
ing, except  in  cases  involving  homicide,  serious  assault,  or  grand 
larceny,  or  when  it  is  likely  that  the  accused  will  flee. 

Persons  apprehended  while  committing  a  crime  are  typically  held 
in  preventive  detention  and  are  usually  not  considered  eligible  for 
conditional  liberty.  Persons  not  caught  in  the  commission  of  a  crime 
are  usually  given  conditional  liberty  on  submission  of  a  bail  bond 
or  article  of  value.  An  individual  taken  into  custody  may  not  be 
held  for  more  than  forty-eight  hours  without  being  brought  before 
a  prosecuting  magistrate  who  reviews  the  case  and  determines 
whether  the  accused  person  should  be  held  in  preventive  deten- 
tion or  released  on  bail.  Preventive  detention  is  limited  to  a  maxi- 
mum of  four  months  for  each  crime.  Because  of  the  cumbersome 
and  backlogged  judicial  system  and  vacant  judgeships,  however, 
detention  beyond  four  months  is  not  unusual  for  major  crimes,  such 
as  murder  or  armed  robbery.  For  this  reason,  judges  are  required 
to  give  priority  to  cases  of  those  in  preventive  detention. 

Persons  unable  to  afford  an  attorney  have  one  appointed  by  the 
court.  Detainees  are  given  access  to  their  lawyers  while  await- 
ing trial.  The  indictments  are  made  available  to  the  accused  and 
their  attorneys,  and  charges  can  be  answered  in  briefs  by  the 
defense  attorneys.  Presiding  judges  can  dismiss  a  case  on  the  basis 
of  a  defense  attorney's  brief  or  continue  the  trial  at  their  own 
discretion. 

A  clear  procedural  distinction  exists  between  arrest  and  trial. 
A  panel  of  three  judges  (which  do  not  include  the  prosecuting  judge) 
presides  over  cases  that  go  to  trial.  A  ministerial  delegate  assists 
the  judges  in  reviewing  the  evidence.  At  the  request  of  the  accused, 
a  jury  can  be  used  in  trials  for  major  crimes.  Provision  for  a  jury 
system  is  a  particularly  significant  innovation  of  the  constitution. 

The  constitution  reaffirms  the  basic  guarantee  of  a  fair  trial  and 
stipulates  that  trials  are  to  be  public  except  when  they  could  offend 
the  dignity  of  the  victim,  as  in  cases  involving  sexual  abuse  of  chil- 
dren. To  avoid  the  malpractices  of  the  authoritarian  Salazar- 
Caetano  regime,  when  agents  of  the  secret  police  exercised  the 
power  of  magistrates,  strict  judicial  supervision  over  indictments 
and  trial  procedure  is  provided.  An  ombudsman,  elected  to  serve 
a  four-year  term  by  the  Assembly  of  the  Republic,  is  Portugal's 
chief  civil  and  human  rights  officer.  The  ombudsman  receives  about 


269 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

3,500  complaints  annually;  the  majority  involve  alleged  maladmin- 
istration by  the  bureaucracy. 

Before  the  Salazar-Caetano  era  ended  in  1974,  persons  accused 
of  offenses  defined  as  crimes  against  the  state  could  be  legally  de- 
tained for  periods  ranging  from  six  months  to  three  years  without 
being  charged.  Suspects  convicted  of  crimes  against  the  state  could 
be  held  in  prison  for  renewable  three-year  terms,  which  could  result 
in  life  imprisonment.  Those  considered  less  dangerous  were  ex- 
iled to  an  overseas  territory  or  were  obliged  to  post  large  bonds 
as  guarantees  of  acceptable  conduct  in  the  future.  Acts  and  con- 
spiracies of  military  or  civilians  against  the  government  were  se- 
verely prosecuted.  Advocating  or  acting  in  favor  of  African 
liberation  movements  was  considered  to  be  a  political  offense.  Con- 
spiring to  participate  in  antigovernment  demonstrations  or  strikes, 
inciting  others  to  strike,  or  taking  part  in  violence  associated  with 
a  strike  were  punishable  under  similar  laws.  Membership  in  the 
Portuguese  Communist  Party  (Partido  Comunista  Portugues — 
PCP)  or  in  any  group  dedicated  to  the  violent  overthrow  of  the 
government  was  prohibited. 

After  the  revolution,  specific  laws  against  the  PCP,  which  had 
been  harshly  suppressed  and  forced  to  operate  clandestinely  from 
1926  to  1974,  were  voided,  allowing  the  party  to  participate  openly 
in  Portugal's  political  life.  In  spite  of  the  ban  on  "fascist"  organi- 
zations, some  small  extreme  right-wing  groups  function  without 
interference.  The  only  other  remaining  restriction  on  political  activ- 
ity bars  simultaneous  membership  in  more  than  one  party. 

Although  Portugal  holds  no  political  prisoners,  some  of  the  rad- 
ical leftist  opponents  of  the  regime  have  claimed  that  prosecutions 
for  participating  in  terrorist  organizations  are  politically  motivat- 
ed. Among  these  is  the  1987  prosecution  of  sixty-four  persons  sen- 
tenced to  prison  because  they  were  members  of  FP-25;  the  most 
notable  of  those  sentenced  was  Carvalho,  one  of  the  leaders  of  the 
Revolution  of  1974  (see  Terrorist  Groups,  this  ch.).  According  to 
the  United  States  Department  of  State's  human  rights  reports,  there 
appears  to  be  substantial  evidence  for  the  criminal  charges  brought 
in  these  cases,  and  Carvalho 's  conviction  was  upheld  after  appeal 
to  the  Portuguese  Supreme  Court  of  Justice. 

Incidence  of  Crime 

In  general,  the  Portuguese  are  law-abiding  people  who  respect 
the  virtues  of  honesty.  In  addition,  social  discontent  has  been  kept 
low  by  emigration,  which  served  traditionally  as  a  release  for  social 
pressures  in  both  rural  and  urban  areas.  Decolonization  in  Africa, 


270 


National  Security 


however,  brought  over  500,000  unemployed  refugees  to  Portugal, 
some  of  whom  became  involved  in  crime.  Some  other  young  adults 
and  discharged  soldiers,  unemployed  and  unable  to  emigrate, 
turned  to  crime.  Nevertheless,  statistics  on  the  commission  of  crime 
between  1984  and  1988  showed  an  actual  reduction  in  most 
categories.  Drug  offenses,  however,  increased  from  1,154  to  1,782. 
Portugal  is  an  important  transshipment  point  for  narcotics  because 
of  its  geographic  position  near  the  North  African  coast  and  on  the 
air  routes  between  South  America  and  Western  Europe.  Indigenous 
drug  use  and  production  are  not,  however,  considered  to  be  major 
problems. 

Violent  crimes,  though  not  unknown  in  Portugal,  are  rare. 
Murders  are  generally  crimes  of  passion  and  only  infrequently  as- 
sociated with  robbery.  Premeditated  homicide  is  punishable  by  a 
prison  sentence  of  from  sixteen  to  twenty  years,  although  mitigat- 
ing circumstances  often  lead  to  reduced  terms.  In  1988,  out  of  a 
total  of  513  homicide  arrests,  205  were  for  negligent  homicide;  331 
of  the  arrested  received  prison  terms. 

Larceny  is  by  far  the  most  common  form  of  crime.  In  1988  over 
41 ,000  thefts  of  all  kinds  were  recorded.  They  included  12,800  thefts 
under  aggravated  circumstances,  4,000  armed  or  violent  thefts, 
7,400  cases  of  breaking  and  entering,  and  5,300  automobile  thefts. 
In  1988  nearly  4,000  cases  of  fraud  and  more  than  17,000  cases 
involving  bad  checks  were  reported,  although  few  of  the  latter  result- 
ed in  court  trials.  There  were  121  rapes  and  165  other  sexual 
offenses.  A  total  of  10,800  persons  were  tried  for  crimes  against 
the  person,  although  only  73  of  these  were  classified  as  serious 
attacks. 

Penal  System 

The  Portuguese  penal  system  is  under  the  control  of  the  mini- 
ster of  justice.  Portugal  had  thirty-nine  civilian  prisons  and  three 
military  prisons  as  of  1988.  The  civilian  prisons  included  twelve 
central  prisons,  twenty-four  regional  prisons,  and  three  special 
institutions.  Their  total  capacity  was  7,633,  and  the  actual  popu- 
lation as  of  December  31,  1987,  was  8,361.  Of  this  total,  6,964 
were  adult  males,  475  were  adult  females,  and  922  were  youths 
under  the  age  of  twenty-one.  There  were  186  military  prisoners.  The 
prison  population  had  remained  fairly  stable  between  1984  and 
1988.  By  far  the  largest  institutions  were  the  central  prisons,  which 
had  a  total  capacity  of  4,870.  The  regional  prison  capacity  was 
1,758;  the  special  prison,  706;  and  the  military  prisons,  299. 
Seven  reformatories  held  457  male  youths,  and  211  female  ju- 
veniles were  detained  at  three  institutions.  The  remainder  were 


271 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

assigned  to  observation  and  social  action  centers  at  Lisbon,  Porto, 
and  Coimbra. 

The  average  time  served  in  prisons  by  adult  males  is  about  six 
months.  The  incarceration  ratio  in  1990  is  83  per  100,000  popula- 
tion, comparable  to  the  ratios  in  neighboring  Spain  and  France 
but  only  one-fifth  that  of  the  United  States. 

The  type  of  prison  regime  to  which  an  offender  is  sentenced  is 
designated  by  the  district  punishment  court  upon  conviction.  Youth- 
ful offenders  are  given  opportunities  to  learn  trades.  The  mastery 
of  a  trade  while  in  prison  and  good  behavior  are  considered  in  reduc- 
ing time  spent  in  prison.  Individuals  convicted  three  times  of  the 
same  crime  are  considered  a  danger  to  society  and  are  not  usually 
eligible  for  parole.  Unlike  other  prisoners,  who  might  be  allowed 
to  do  farm  work,  they  could  be  kept  to  a  strict  prison  regime.  All 
prisoners  earn  money  for  their  work  while  in  prison,  and  work  is 
considered  a  necessary  part  of  the  rehabilitation  process. 

Occasional  complaints  of  individual  mistreatment  by  police  and 
prison  authorities  are  investigated  by  the  ombudsman.  In  1985  a 
number  of  FP-25  prisoners  engaged  in  periodic  hunger  strikes  and 
other  protests  against  prison  conditions.  A  stricter  regime  was  im- 
posed on  those  remaining  after  ten  FP-25  members  accused  of  com- 
mon crimes  escaped  from  Lisbon's  main  penitentiary.  The  United 
States  Department  of  State's  human  rights  reports  assert  that  no 
independent  evidence  has  appeared  confirming  the  inadequacy  of 
prison  conditions. 

*    *  * 

Among  various  studies  analyzing  Portugal's  national  security 
objectives,  a  particularly  incisive  treatment  is  "Portuguese  Defense 
Policy,"  by  Alvaro  Vasconcelos.  Appraising  the  armed  forces' 
modernization  program  since  the  early  1980s,  Vasconcelos  also  dis- 
cusses Portugal's  changing  goals  during  several  phases  of  its  mem- 
bership in  the  NATO  alliance.  Portuguese  Defense  and  Foreign  Policy 
since  Democratization,  edited  by  Kenneth  Maxwell,  contains  a  num- 
ber of  valuable  essays  on  Portugal's  defense  policy.  A  full  account 
of  the  involvement  of  the  Portuguese  armed  forces  in  the  political 
events  of  1974-75  can  be  found  in  Douglas  Porch's  The  Portuguese 
Armed  Forces  and  the  Revolution.  Richard  Alan  Hodgson  Robinson's 
Contemporary  Portugal  addresses  the  relationship  between  the  politi- 
cal and  military  leadership  during  the  Salazar  and  Caetano  eras 
and  through  the  revolution.  Works  by  Tom  Gallagher  and  Thom- 
as C.  Bruneau  add  observations  on  the  interaction  between  the 


272 


National  Security 


military  and  civilian  politicians  into  the  1980s.  The  Portuguese 
justice  system  and  the  status  of  civil  rights  are  briefly  surveyed  in 
the  United  States  Department  of  State's  annual  Country  Reports  on 
Human  Rights  Practices. 

Data  on  the  size,  organization,  and  armaments  of  the  Portuguese 
armed  forces  can  be  found  in  The  Military  Balance,  1992-93,  pub- 
lished by  the  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies  in  Lon- 
don, supplemented  by  information  in  Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  DMS 
Market  Intelligence  Reports,  and  occasional  reports  in  the  Portuguese 
press.  Jane's  NATO  Handbook,  1990-91  contains  additional  infor- 
mation on  the  Portuguese  defense  establishment  and  on  Portuguese 
links  to  NATO  and  IBERLANT.  (For  further  information  and 
complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


273 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Population,  Selected  Years,  1801-1992 

3  Estimated  Population  by  District  and  Autonomous  Region, 

December  1989 

4  Selected  Economic  Indicators,  1960-73  and  1981-90 

5  Government  Transactions,  1973,  1984,  and  1990 

6  Composition  of  Labor  Force  by  Sector,  1960,  1973,  and  1990 

7  Grain  Crop  Yields  of  Selected  European  Countries,  1990 

8  Collective  Production  Units  by  District,  1979 

9  Foreign  Trade  by  Country,  1985  and  1990 

10  External  Public  Debt  and  Debt-Service  Indicators,  Selected 

Years,  1980-90 

11  Parliamentary  Election  Results,  1975-91 

12  Major  Army  Equipment,  1992 

13  Major  Naval  Equipment,  1992 

14  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1992 


275 


Appendix 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


When  you  know 

Multiply  by 

To  find 

  0.04 

inches 

Centimeters  

  0.39 

inches 

3.3 

feet 

  0.62 

miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)  

  2.47 

acres 

Square  kilometers   

  0.39 

square  miles 

Cubic  meters  

  35.3 

cubic  feet 

  0.26 

gallons 

  2.2 

pounds 

Metric  tons   

  0.98 

long  tons 

  1.1 

short  tons 

  2,204 

pounds 

  1.8 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade)  and  add  32 


Table  2.  Population,  Selected  Years,  1801-1992  1 
(in  thousands) 

Year                                           Population            Year  Population 

1801                                       3,115             1950    8,510 

1864                                       4,287             1960    8,889 

1878                                       4,669             1970    8,663 

1900                                       5,447             1981    9,776 

1920                                       6,080             1989  2    10,337 

1930                                       6,802             1992  2    10,448 

1940    7,755 

1  Includes  the  population  of  the  Azores  and  Madeira. 

2  Estimate. 


277 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Table  3.  Estimated  Population  by  District  and  Autonomous 
Region,  December  1989 
(in  thousands) 


Administrative  Division  Population 


Districts 

Aveiro    674.4 

Beja   173.2 

Braga   784.8 

Braganca    182.8 

Castelo  Branco   218.7 

Coimbra   446.7 

Evora   171.5 

Faro    344.9 

Guarda   191.8 

Leiria                                                                           .  436.5 

Lisbon   2,130.6 

Portalegre   134.9 

Porto    1,695.1 

Santarem    459.0 

Setubal   817.9 

Viana  do  Castelo    266.9 

Vila  Real    259.8 

Viseu    419.4 

Autonomous  regions 

Azores    253.1 

Madeira    275.0 


TOTAL   10,337.0 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Portugal,  Instituto  Nacional  de  Estatfstica,  Estatisticas 
Demogrdficas:  Continente,  Acores,  e  Madeira,  1989,  Lisbon,  1990,  34. 


Table  4.  Selected  Economic  Indicators,  1960-73  and  1981-90 
(in  average  annual  percentage  changes) 


1960-73 

1981-90 

Gross  domestic  product  (GDP)   

  6.9 

2.7 

Industrial  production  

  9.0 

4.8 

Private  consumption   

  6.5 

2.7 

Employment   

  -0.5 

1.4 

Labor  productivity  *   

  7.4 

1.3 

  28.6 

10.1 

  4.0 

17.9 

*  GDP  growth  rate/employment  growth. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  European  Community,  Commission,  Directorate- 
General  for  Economic  and  Financial  Affairs,  European  Economy,  No.  46,  Brussels, 
December  1990,  126,  Table  1;  and  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and 
Development,  Economic  Surveys:  Portugal,  1991-1992,  Statistical  Annex,  Paris,  1992, 
112. 


278 


Appendix 


Table  5.  Government  Transactions,  1973,  1984,  and  1990 
(as  a  percentage  of  GDP)  1 


1973 

1984 

1990 

Current  account 

Revenues 

Direct  taxes  and  social 

10.3 

17.7 

20.0 

Indirect  taxes   

,    .  10.8 

15.2 

15.2 

Other   

1.6 

1.7 

4.0 

Total  revenues  

22.7 

34.6 

39.2 

Expenditures 

13.2 

14.4 

16.2 

1.0 

7.6 

1.5 

4.8 

13.6 

13.4 

0.4 

7.1 

8.2 

Other   

0.1 

— 

0.9 

42.7 

40.2 

Capital  account 

Revenues   

.  .  .  n.a. 

0.3 

1.3 

Expenditures 

Investment   

2.3 

2.6 

3.7 

0.9 

1.6 

2.0 

3.2 

4.2 

5.7 

Overall  balance  2   

.  .  .  n.a. 

-  12.0 

-5.4 

Lending  capacity  (  +  )  or 

1.4 

-  13.4 

-6.3 

— means  negligible, 
n.a. — not  available. 

1  GDP — gross  domestic  product. 

2  Includes  financial  transactions  and  other  adjustments. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Develop- 
ment, Economic  Survey:  Portugal,  1981,  Paris,  1981,  23,  Table  11;  Organisation  for 
Economic  Co-operation  and  Development,  Economic  Survey:  Portugal,  1988-89,  Paris, 
1989,  44,  Table  15;  and  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Develop- 
ment, Economic  Survey:  Portugal,  1991-1992,  Paris,  1992,  55,  Table  13. 


279 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Table  6.  Composition  of  Labor  Force  by  Sector,  1960, 
1973,  and  1990 


I960  1973  1990 

Sector  Thousands  Percentage     Thousands  Percentage     Thousands  Percentage 


Agriculture, 
forestry,  and 

fishing    1,363         43.6            812         27.8  847  17.8 

Industry, 
including 

construction...  897         28.7          1,042         35.6  1,655  34.8 

Services   866  27.7          1,072         36.6  2,254  47.4 

TOTAL  *    3,126        100.0          2,925        100.0  4,756  100.0 


*  Figures  may  not  add  to  totals  because  of  rounding. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Portugal,  Secretaria-General  da  Assembleia  Nacional, 
III  Piano  deFomento  para  1968-1973,  Lisbon,  1967,  321;  Portugal,  Presidencia  do 
Conselho,  IV Piano  de  Fomento,  1974-1979,  I,  Lisbon,  1973,  75-76,  Tables  VII  and 
XV;  and  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development,  Economic  Out- 
look: Historical  Statistics,  1960-1990,  Paris,  1992,  40-41. 

Table  7.  Grain  Crop  Yields  of  Selected  European  Countries,  1990 
(in  kilograms  per  hectare) 


Crop  Portugal      Greece       Spain       West  Germany  France 


Cereals    1,731  2,769  2,488  5,790  6,205 

Wheat    1,502  1,758  2,373  6,615  6,487 

Rice    4,598  6,250  6,397  0  5,737 

Barley    1,171  1,739  2,160  5,432  6,499 

Corn    2,462  8,763  6,399  6,789  5,808 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  Nations  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization, 
Yearbook:  Production,  1990,  44,  Rome,  1991,  67-80,  Tables  15,  16,  17,  19,  and  20. 

Table  8.  Collective  Production  Units  by  District,  1979 


Average  Area 

Districts  Number  of  Units       Total  Area  of  Units  *  per  Unit  * 


Evora    165  392,000  2,376 

Beja   80  284,258  3,553 

Setubal    78  92,000  1,179 

Portalegre    61  257,000  4,213 

Santarem   51  43,957  862 

Lisbon,  Castelo 

Branco,  and  Faro    14  n>062  790 

PORTUGAL    449  1,080,277  2,406 


*  In  hectares. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Labour  Organisation,  Employment  and  Basic 
Needs  in  Portugal,  Geneva,  1979,  142,  Table  71. 


280 


Appendix 


Table  9.  Foreign  Trade  by  Country,  1985  and  1990 
(in  percentages) 


Country 


1985 


1990 


Exports,  f.o.b.  1 

European  Community 

Britain    14.6  12.1 

West  Germany    13.7  16.7 

France    12.7  15.5 

Spain    4.1  13.3 

Italy    3.9  4.0 

Other    13.5  12.1 

Total  European  Community  2   52.5  73  7 

United  States   -  9.2  4.8 

Previous  Escudo  Area  3    3.9  3.4 

OPEC  4    2.5  0.6 

Other    21.9  17.5 

Total  exports   100.0  100.0 

Imports,  c.i.f.  5 

European  Community 

West  Germany    11.5  14.3 

France    8.0  11.5 

Britain    7.5  7.5 

Spain    7.4  14.4 

Italy    5.2  10.0 

Other    6.3  11.4 

Total  European  Community   45  9  59  \ 

United  States    9.7  3.9 

Previous  Escudo  Area    1.2  0.4 

OPEC    17.3  6.8 

Other    25.9  19.8 

Total  imports    100  0  100  0 

1  f.o.b. — free  on  board. 

2  Including  figures  for  Spain,  not  yet  a  member. 

3  Former  Portuguese  colonies  in  Africa. 

*  Organization  of  the  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries. 
5  c.i.f. — cost,  insurance,  and  freight. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Bank  of  Portugal,  Report  of  the  Directors  and  Economic 
and  Financial  Survey  for  the  Year  1990,  Statistical  Appendix,  Lisbon,  1991,  Tables 
2.2.1  and  2.2.2. 


281 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Table  10.  External  Public  Debt  and  Debt-Service  Indicators, 
Selected  Years,  1980-90 


1980 

1982 

1985 

1987 

1990 

External  debt  (in  millions 

of  United  States  dollars)  .... 

8,978 

13,464 

16,682 

18,464 

18,434 

External  debt  as  a 

percentage  of  reserves  1  .... 

56.3 

110.5 

167.2 

116.6 

72.2 

External  debt  as  a 

36.3 

58.8 

80.4 

50.3 

28.9 

Debt  service  (interest  and 

amortization)  as  a  percentage 

of  current  account  credits  .  .  . 

15.2 

27.0 

37.0 

30.6 

16.7 

Interest  payments  as  a 

3.0 

5.6 

6.5 

3.3 

2.9  3 

1  Reserves  consist  of  gross  foreign  assets  of  the  Bank  of  Portugal  and  the  Treasury,  with  gold  valued 
at  market  prices. 

2  GDP — gross  domestic  product. 

3  1989. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Bank  of  Portugal,  Annual  Report,  Lisbon,  various  years. 


Table  11.  Parliamentary  Election  Results,  1975-91 


1975  1976  1979  1980 


Seats     Percentage     Seats     Percentage     Seats     Percentage     Seats  Percentage 


Party 

of  Votes 

of  Votes 

of  Votes 

of  Votes 

PS  1  ... 

.  115 

37.9 

107 

35.0 

74 

27.4 

74 

27.8 

PSD  2  . 

.  80 

26.4 

73 

24.0 

128 

45.2 

134 

47.5 

CDS  3  . 

.  16 

7.6 

42 

15.9 

  4 

  4 

  4 

  4 

PCP  5  . 

.  30 

12.5 

40 

14.6 

47 

18.8 

41 

16.9 

PRD  6  . 

  7 

  7 

  7 

  7 

  7 

  7 

  7 

  7 

1983  1985  1987  1991 


Seats     Percentage     Seats     Percentage     Seats     Percentage     Seats  Percentage 


Party 

of  Votes 

of  Votes 

of  Votes 

of  Votes 

PS   

.  101 

36.3 

57 

20.8 

60 

22.3 

72 

29.3 

PSD  .  .  . 

.  75 

27.0 

88 

29.9 

148 

50.2 

135 

50.4 

CDS  .. 

.  30 

12.4 

22 

10.0 

4 

4.4 

5 

4.4 

PCP    .  . 

.  44 

18.2 

38 

15.5 

31 

12.2 

17 

8.8 

PRD   .  . 

  7 

  7 

45 

17.9 

7 

4.9 

0 

0.6 

1  Partido  Socialista  (Socialist  Party).  The  PS  was  in  an  electoral  coalition,  the  Republican  and  So- 
cialist Front  (Frente  Republicana  e  Socialista — FRS),  with  several  smaller  parties  for  the  1980  election. 

2  Partido  Social  Democrata  (Social  Democrat  Party). 

3  Partido  do  Centro  Democratico  Social  (Party  of  the  Social  Democratic  Center). 

4  The  PSD,  the  CDS,  and  two  smaller  parties  formed  an  electoral  coalition,  the  Democratic  Alliance 
(Alianca  Democratica — AD),  for  the  1979  and  1980  elections. 

5  Partido  Comunista  Portugues  (Portuguese  Communist  Party).  The  PCP  formed  electoral  coalitions 
with  other  leftist  groups  for  parliamentary  elections  beginning  in  1979:  the  United  People's  Alliance 
(Alianca  Povo  Unido — APU)  for  the  1980,  1983,  and  1985  elections;  and  the  Democratic  Unitary 
Coalition  (Coligagao  Democratico  Unitario — CDU)  for  the  1987  and  1991  elections. 

6  Partido  Renovador  Democratico  (Party  of  Democratic  Renovation). 

7  The  PRD  was  not  established  until  1985. 


282 


Appendix 

Table  12.  Major  Army  Equipment,  1992 


Type  and  Description  Country  of  Origin        In  Inventory 


Tanks 


M-47  

.  .  .         United  States 

43 

M-48A5   

-do- 

86 

Armored  vehicles 

-do- 

172 

Chaimite  V-200   

79 

Saladin  reconnaissance  vehicles   

.  .  .  Britain 

8 

Ferret  Mk  4  scout  cars   

-do- 

30 

AML  60  armored  cars   

.  .  .  France 

40 

Self-propelled  artillery 

155mm  M-109A2  howitzers   

6 

Towed  artillery 

105mm  M-101   

-do- 

54 

105mm  M-56  pack   

-do- 

24 

24 

155mm  M-114  howitzers   

United  States 

40 

Coastal  artillery 

150mm,  152mm,  and  234mm   

.  .      Britain  and  other 

27 

Mortars 

107mm  M-30   

58 

1  90mm 

i  on 

1  uu 

Antitank  weapons 

90mm  and  106mm  recoilless  rifles  

United  States 

240 

TOW  missiles   

-do- 

48 

SS-11  wire-guided  missiles   

.  .  .  France 

31 

-do- 

45 

Air  defense  weapons 

34 

20mm  Rh-202   

30 

322 

Blowpipe  surface-to-air  missiles  

Britain 

12 

Chaparral  surface-to-air  missiles   

United  States 

5 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1992-1993,  London,  1992,  55; 
and  Jane's  NATO  Handbook,  1990-91,  Coulsdon,  Surrey,  United  Kingdom,  1990, 
461. 


283 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Table  13.  Major  Naval  Equipment,  1992 


Type  and  Description 


Country  of  Origin 


In  Inventory 


Frigates 

Vasco  da  Gama  class  (MEKO-200)    Germany  3 

Joao  Belo  class   France  4 

Baptista  de  Andrade  class    Spain  4 

Joao  Continho  class    Germany  and  Spain  6 

Submarines 

Albacora  (Daphne)  class    France  3 

Coastal  patrol  vessels 

Sao  Roque  class  (converted 

minesweepers)    Portugal  2 

Cacine  class  (large)    -do-  10 

Dom  Aleixo  class    -do-  2 

Albatroz  class   -do-  6 

Amphibious  vessels 

Bombarda  class  LCT  (landing  craft, 

tank)   -do-  3 

LDM-400  class  LCM  (landing  craft, 

mechanized)  -do-  6 

LDM-100  class  LCM    -do-  3 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1992-93,  London,  1992,  473-80. 


Table  14.  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1992 


Type  and  Description 


Country  of  Origin 


In  Inventory 


Fighter- ground  attack 

A-7P  Corsair  (including  six 

training  versions)   United  States  38 

Alpha  Jet                                                     France  and  Germany  10 

Fiat  G-91    Italy  29 

Maritime  reconnaissance 

P-3P  Orion   United  States  6 

Transport 

C-130H  Hercules    -do-  6 

CASA  C-212  Aviocar   Spain  26 

Falcon  20    France  3 

Falcon  50    -do-  3 

Liaison 

Reims-Cessna  FTB-337G    -do-  12 

Training 

Epsilon  TB-30    -do-  18 

Cessna  T-37C   United  States  23 

Lockheed  T-33A   -do-  7 

Northrop  T-38  Talon    -do-  12 

RF-10  Aerospatiale   France  2 

Helicopters 

SA-330  Puma    -do-  10 

SA-316  Alouette  III    -do-  35 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1992-93,  London,  1992,  56. 


284 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Abshire,  David  M.,  and  Michael  Samuels  (eds.).  Portuguese  Africa: 
A  Handbook.  New  York:  Praeger,  1969. 

Boxer,  Charles  R.  Four  Centuries  of  Portuguese  Expansion:  A  Succinct 
Survey.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1969. 

 .  Portuguese  Society  in  the  Tropics:  The  Municipal  Councils  of  Goa, 

Bahia,  and  Luanda,  1510-1800.  Madison:  University  of  Wiscon- 
sin Press,  1965. 

Bradford,  Sarah.  Portugal.  New  York:  Walker,  1973. 

Chilcote,  Ronald  H.  Portuguese  Africa.  Englewood  Cliffs,  New  Jer- 
sey: Prentice-Hall,  1967. 

Duffy,  James.  Portuguese  Africa.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University 
Press,  1968. 

Figueiredo,  Antonio  de.  Portugal:  Fifty  Years  of  Dictatorship.  New 
York:  Holmes  and  Meier,  1975. 

Gallagher,  Tom.  Portugal:  A  Twentieth- Century  Interpretation.  Man- 
chester: Manchester  University  Press,  1983. 

Isaacman,  Allen  F.  Mozambique:  The  Africanization  of  a  European  In- 
stitution: The  Zambesi  Prazos,  1750-1902.  Madison:  University  of 
Wisconsin  Press,  1972. 

Kay,  Hugh.  Salazar  and  Modern  Portugal.  New  York:  Hawthorn 
Books,  1970. 

Livermore,  H.V.  A  New  History  of  Portugal.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1969. 

Marques,  A.H.  de  Oliveira.  Daily  Life  in  Portugal  in  the  Late  Middle 
Ages.  Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1971. 

 History  of  Portugal.  (2  vols.)  New  York:  Columbia  Univer- 
sity Press,  1972. 

Nowell,  Charles.  Portugal.  Englewood  Cliffs,  New  Jersey:  Prentice- 
Hall,  1973. 

Opello,  Walter  C . ,  Jr.  Portugal:  From  Monarchy  to  Pluralist  Democracy. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1991. 

Payne,  Stanley  G.  A  History  of  Spain  and  Portugal.  (2  vols.)  Madi- 
son: University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1973. 

Porch,  Douglas.  The  Portuguese  Armed  Forces  and  the  Revolution.  Lon- 
don: Croom  Helm,  1977. 

Raby,  Dawn  Linda.  Fascism  and  Resistance  in  Portugal:  Communists, 
Liberals,  and  Military  Dissidents  in  the  Opposition  to  Salazar,  1941- 
1974.  Manchester:  Manchester  University  Press,  1988. 


285 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Robinson,  Richard  Alan  Hodgson.  Contemporary  Portugal:  A  History. 
London:  George  Allen  and  Unwin,  1979. 

Stanislawski,  Dan.  The  Individuality  of  Portugal:  A  Study  of  Historical- 
Political  Geography.  Austin:  University  of  Texas  Press,  1959. 

Wheeler,  Douglas  L.  Republican  Portugal:  A  Political  History, 
1910-1926.  Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1978. 

Wiarda,  Howard  J.  Corporatism  and  Development:  The  Portuguese  Ex- 
perience. Amherst:  University  of  Massachusetts  Press,  1977. 


Chapter  2 

Baklanoff,  Eric  N.  The  Economic  Transformation  of  Spain  and  Portu- 
gal. New  York:  Praeger,  1978. 

Barata,  Oscar  Soares.  Natalidade  e politica  social  em  Portugal.  Lisbon: 
Universidade  Tecnica  de  Lisboa,  Instituto  Superior  de  Ciencias 
Sociais  e  Politicas,  1985. 

Bentley,  Jeffrey  W.  Today  There  Is  No  Misery:  The  Ethnography  of  Farm- 
ing in  Northwest  Portugal.  Tucson:  University  of  Arizona  Press,  1992. 

Bermeo,  Nancy.  The  Revolution  Within  the  Revolution:  Workers'  Con- 
trol in  Rural  Portugal.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1986. 

Brettell,  Caroline.  Men  Who  Migrate,  Women  Who  Wait.  Princeton: 
Princeton  University  Press,  1986. 

 We  Have  Already  Cried  Many  Tears:  Portuguese  Women  and 

Migration.  Cambridge,  Massachusetts:  Schenkman,  1982. 

Brogger,  Jan.  Nazare:  Women  and  Men  in  a  Prebureacratic  Portuguese 
Fishing  Village.  Fort  Worth,  Texas:  Harcourt  Brace  Javanovich, 
1992. 

Bruce,  Neil.  Portugal:  The  Last  Empire.  New  York:  Wiley,  1975. 

Bruneau,  Thomas  C.  "Church  and  State  in  Portugal:  Crises  of 
Cross  and  Sword,"  Journal  of  Church  and  State,  18,  No.  3,  Au- 
tumn 1976,  463-90. 

Bruneau,  Thomas  C,  and  Alex  Macleod.  Politics  in  Contemporary 
Portugal:  Parties  and  the  Consolidation  of  Democracy.  Boulder,  Colora- 
do: Lynne  Rienner,  1986. 

Bruneau,  Thomas  C,  Victor  M.P.  Da  Rosa,  and  Alex  Macleod. 
Portugal  in  Development:  Emigration,  Industrialization,  and  the  Euro- 
pean Community.  Ottawa:  University  of  Ottawa  Press,  1984. 

Chilcote,  Ronald.  Portuguese  Africa.  Englewood  Cliffs,  New  Jersey: 
Prentice-Hall,  1967. 

Cole,  Sally.  Women  of  the  Praia:  Work  and  Lives  in  a  Portuguese  Coastal 
Community.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1991. 

Cutileiro,  Jose.  A  Portuguese  Rural  Society.  Oxford:  Clarendon  Press, 
1971. 


286 


Bibliography 


Da  Costa,  Alfredo  Bruto.  "Some  Factors  of  Impoverishment  in 
a  Mediterranean  Country:  The  Case  of  Portugal."  Pages  176-91 
in  Paul-Marc  Henry  (ed.),  Poverty,  Progress  and  Development.  Lon- 
don: Kegan  Paul  International-UNESCO,  1991. 

Eisfeld,  Rainer.  "Portugal  and  Western  Europe."  Pages  29-62 
in  Kenneth  Maxwell  (ed.),  Portugal  in  the  1980s:  Dilemmas  of 
Democratic  Consolidation.  (Contributions  in  Political  Science,  No. 
138.)  New  York:  Greenwood  Press,  1986. 

Gallagher,  Tom.  Portugal:  A  Twentieth- Century  Interpretation.  Man- 
chester: Manchester  University  Press,  1983. 

Graham,  Lawrence  S.,  and  Harry  M.  Makler  (eds.)  Contemporary 
Portugal:  The  Revolution  and  Its  Antecedents.  Austin:  University  of 
Texas  Press,  1979. 

Graham,  Lawrence  S.,  and  Douglas  L.  Wheeler  (eds.).  In  Search 
of  Modern  Portugal:  The  Revolution  and  Its  Consequences.  Madison: 
University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1983. 

Grande  Enciclopedia  Portuguesa  e  Brasileira,  9.  Lisbon:  Enciclopedia, 
1987. 

Kaplan,  Marion.  The  Portuguese:  The  Land  and  Its  People.  New  York: 
Viking  Press,  1991. 

Kurian,  George,  andjoaquim  Ferreira  Gomes.  "Portugal."  Pages 
1021-27  in  George  Thomas  Kurian  (ed.),  World  Education  Ency- 
clopedia, 2.  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1988. 

Livi  Bacci,  Massimo.  A  Century  of  Portuguese  Fertility.  Princeton: 
Princeton  University  Press,  1971. 

Makler,  Harry  M.  "A  Case  Study  of  the  Portuguese  Business  Elite, 
1964-1966."  Pages  228-41  in  Raymond  S.  Sayers  (ed.),  Portu- 
gal and  Brazil  in  Transition.  Minneapolis:  University  of  Minnesota 
Press,  1968. 

 .  A  ( Elite"  industrial  portuguesa.  Lisbon:  Instituto  Gulbenkian 

de  Ciencia,  1969. 

Martins,  Maria  Belmira.  Sociedades  e  grupos  em  Portugal.  Lisbon: 
Editorial  Estampa,  1973. 

Maxwell,  Kenneth  (ed.).  Portugal  in  the  1980s:  Dilemmas  of  Democratic 
Consolidation.  (Contributions  in  Political  Science,  No.  138.)  New 
York:  Greenwood  Press,  1986. 

 Portugal:  Ten  Years  after  the  Revolution:  Reports  of  Three  Co- 
lumbia-Gulbenkian  Workshops.  New  York:  Research  Institute  on 
International  Change,  Columbia  University,  1984. 

Miranda,  David  J.  "A  Populacao  Universitaria  e  a  Populacao  Por- 
tuguesa," Analise  Social  [Lisbon],  7,  Nos.  25  and  26,  1969, 
158-65. 

Nunes,  Aderito  Sedas.  Sociologia  e  ideologia  do  desenvolvimento:  estu- 
dios  e  ensaios.  Lisbon:  Moreas,  1968. 


287 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

O'Neill,  Brian  Juan.  Social  Inequality  in  a  Portuguese  Hamlet:  Land, 
Late  Marriage,  and  Bastardy,  1870-1978.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1987. 

Opello,  Walter  C . ,  Jr.  Portugal:  From  Monarchy  to  Pluralist  Democracy. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1991. 

 Portugal's  Political  Development:  A  Comparative  Approach.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

Penniman,  Howard  (ed.).  Portugal  at  the  Polls.  Durham,  North  Caro- 
lina: Duke  University  Press,  1992. 

Pereira  Neto,  Joao  Baptista  Nunes,  ''Social  Evolution  in  Portugal 
Since  1945."  Pages  212-27  in  Raymond  S.  Sayer  (ed.),  Portugal 
and  Brazil  in  Transition.  Minneapolis:  University  of  Minnesota 
Press:  1968. 

Portugal.  Constitution  of  the  Portuguese  Republic.  (Second  Revision, 
1989.)  Lisbon:  General  Directorate  of  Mass  Communication, 
1991. 

 .  Portugal.  Lisbon:  General  Directorate  of  Mass  Commu- 
nication, 1987. 

 Instituto  Nacional  de  Estatistica.  Annudrio  Estatistico:  Con- 

tinente,  Aqores  e  Madeira,  1988.  Lisbon:  1988. 

 Instituto  Nacional  de  Estatistica.  Estattsticas  Demograficas: 

Continente,  Aqores,  e  Madeira,  1989.  Lisbon:  1990. 

 Instituto  Nacional  de  Estatistica.  Estatisticas  Demograficas: 

Continente  e  Ilhas  Adjacentes,  1972.  Lisbon:  1973. 

Riegelhaupt,  Joyce  Firstenberg.  "Festas  and  Padres:  The  Organi- 
zation of  Religious  Action  in  a  Portuguese  Village,"  American 
Anthropologist,  75,  No.  3,  June  1973,  835-52. 

 "Saloio  Women:  An  Analysis  of  Informal  and  Formal  Po- 
litical and  Economic  Roles  of  Portuguese  Peasant  Women,"  An- 
thropological Quarterly,  40,  No.  3,  July  1967,  109-26. 

Robinson,  Richard  Alan  Hodgson.  Contemporary  Portugal:  A  History. 
London:  George  Allen  and  Unwin,  1979. 

Rostow,  W.W.  The  Stages  of  Economic  Growth.  Cambridge:  Cam- 
bridge University  Press,  1960. 

Sayer,  Raymond  S.  (ed.).  Portugal  and  Brazil  in  Transition.  Min- 
neapolis: University  of  Minnesota  Press,  1968. 

Sousa,  Maria  Reynolds  de,  and  Dina  Canco  (eds.).  Portugal:  Sta- 
tus of  Women  1991.  Lisbon:  Commission  for  Equality  and  Wom- 
en's Rights,  Prime  Minister's  Office,  1991. 

Tuchman,  Barbara.  The  Proud  Tower.  New  York:  Macmillan,  1966. 

United  Nations.  Department  of  International  Economic  and  So- 
cial Affairs.  World  Population  Policies,  3.  (Population  Studies, 
102/Add.  2.)  New  York:  1990. 


288 


Bibliography 


United  States.  Department  of  State.  Background  Notes:  Portugal. 
Washington:  GPO,  1990. 

Valente,  M.O.  "Portugal."  Pages  564-68  in  T.  Neville  Postleth- 
waite  (ed.),  The  Encyclopedia  of  Comparative  and  National  Systems 
of  Education.  Oxford:  Pergamon  Press,  1988. 

 .  "Portugal."  Pages  4006-11  in  Torsten  Husen  and  T. 

Neville  Postlethwaite  (eds.),  The  International  Encyclopedia  of  Edu- 
cation: Research  and  Studies,  7.  Oxford:  Pergamon  Press,  1985. 

Wiarda,  Howard  J.  Corporatism  and  Development:  The  Portuguese  Ex- 
perience. Amherst:  University  of  Massachusetts  Press,  1977. 

 The  Iberian-Latin  American  Connection.  Washington:  The 

American  Enterprise  Institute  for  Public  Policy  Research,  1986. 

 .  The  Transition  to  Democracy  in  Spain  and  Portugal.  Washing- 
ton: The  American  Enterprise  Institute  for  Public  Policy 
Research,  1989. 

World  Bank.  World  Development  Report,  1988.  New  York:  Oxford 
University  Press,  1988. 


Chapter  3 

Amaral,  Joao  Ferreirado,  Diogo  de  Lucena,  and  Antonio  Sam- 
paio  Mello.  The  Portuguese  Economy  Towards  1992:  Proceedings  of 
a  Conference  Sponsored  by  Junta  Nacional  de  Investigagao  Cientifica  e 
Tecnologica  and  Banco  de  Portugal.  Boston:  Kluwer  Academic,  1992. 

Baklanoff,  Eric  N.  "Changing  Systems:  The  Portuguese  Revolu- 
tion and  the  Public  Enterprise  Sector,"  Comparative  Economic 
Studies,  26,  No.  2-3,  Summer-Fall  1984,  63-75. 

 The  Economic  Transformation  of  Spain  and  Portugal.  New  York: 

Praeger,  1978. 

 "Spain  and  Portugal  in  the  European  Community:  An 

Economic  Perspective, ' '  AEI  Foreign  Policy  and  Defense  Review,  6, 

No.  2,  1986,  36-45. 
Bank  of  Portugal.  Annual  Report.  Lisbon:  1991. 

 Economic  Indicators,  1975-1980.  Lisbon:  1981. 

 Economic  Indicators,  1978-1983.  Lisbon:  1984. 

 Economic  Indicators,  1981-1986.  Lisbon:  1987. 

 "Empresas  publicas  nao  financieras,"  Boletim  Trimestral 

[Lisbon],  4,  No.  3,  September  1982,  33-45. 

 Report  of  the  Board  of  Governors,  1989.  Lisbon:  1990. 

 Report  of  the  Board  of  Governors,  1990.  Lisbon:  1991. 

 Report  of  the  Directors  and  Economic  and  Financial  Survey  for 

the  Year  1990,  Statistical  Appendix.  Lisbon:  1991. 
Barreto,  Jose.  "Portugal:  Industrial  Relations  under  Democracy." 


289 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Pages  445-81  in  Anthony  Ferner  and  Richard  Hyman  (eds.), 
Industrial  Relations  in  the  New  Europe.  Oxford:  Basil  Blackwell,  1992. 

Bermeo,  Nancy.  "The  Politics  of  Public  Enterprise  in  Portugal, 
Spain,  and  Greece."  Pages  137-62  in  Ezra  N.  Suleiman  and 
John  Waterbury  (eds.),  The  Political  Economy  of  Public  Sector  Re- 
form and  Privatization.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1990. 

Bruneau,  Thomas  C,  Victor  M.P.  Da  Rosa,  and  Alex  Macleod. 
Portugal  in  Development:  Emigration,  Industrialization,  and  the  Euro- 
pean Community.  Ottawa:  University  of  Ottawa  Press,  1984. 

Corkill,  David.  "Menos  estado,  melhor  estado:  Portugal's  Privati- 
sation." Journal  of  the  Association  for  Contemporary  Iberian  Studies 
[London],  4,  No.  1,  Spring,  1991,  41-47. 

Craynon,  John  R.  "The  Mineral  Industry  in  Portugal."  Pages 
715-25,  in  Minerals  Yearbook,  1986,  3.  (Area  Reports:  Interna- 
tional.) Washington:  GPO,  1988. 

Donges,  Juergen  B.  Foreign  Investment  in  Portugal.  Reprinted  from 
Segunda  Conferencia  International  sobre  Economia  Portugue- 
sa,  1979.  Lisbon:  1980. 

Donges,  Juergen  B. ,  et  al.  The  Second  Enlargement  of  the  European  Com- 
munity: Adjustment  Requirements  and  Challenges  for  Policy  Reform. 
Tubingen,  Germany:  J. C.B.  Mohr,  1982. 

European  Community.  Commission.  Directorate-General  for  Eco- 
nomic and  Financial  Affairs.  European  Economy.  (No.  46.)  Brus- 
sels: December  1990. 

Harsgor,  Michael.  Portugal  in  Revolution.  (Washington  Papers,  No. 
32.)  Beverly  Hills,  California:  Sage,  1976. 

Hudson,  Mark.  Portugal  to  1993:  Investing  in  a  European  Future.  (Spe- 
cial Report,  No.  1157.)  London:  Economist  Intelligence  Unit, 
1989. 

International  Labor  Organisation.  Employment  and  Basic  Needs  in 

Portugal.  Geneva:  1979. 
Kay,  Hugh.  Salazar  and  Modern  Portugal.  New  York:  Hawthorne 

Books,  1970. 

Lewis,  Paul  H.  "Salazar's  Ministerial  Elite,  1932-1968,  "Journal 
of  Politics,  40,  No.  3,  August  1978,  622-47. 

Macedo,  Jorge  Bragda  de,  and  Simon  Serfaty  (eds.).  Portugal  since 
the  Revolution:  Economic  and  Political  Perspectives.  Boulder,  Colora- 
do: Westview  Press,  1981. 

Makler,  Harry  M.  A  "Elite"  industrial portuguesa.  Lisbon:  Institu- 
te Gulbenkian  de  Ciencia,  1969. 

 .  "The  Portuguese  Industrial  Elite."  Pages  147-65  in 

Lawrence  S.  Graham  and  Harry  M.  Makler  (eds.),  Contemporary 
Portugal:  The  Revolution  and  Its  Antecedents.  Austin:  University  of 
Texas  Press,  1979. 


290 


Bibliography 


Marques,  Miguel  A.  "Why  Is  Portugal  an  Attractive  Location  for 
Investment?"  Business  America,  May  20,  1991,  10-13. 

Martins,  Maria  Belmira.  Sociedades  e  grupos  em  Portugal.  Lisbon: 
Editorial  Estampa,  1973. 

Martins,  Maria  Belmira,  and  Jose  Chaves  Rosa.  0  grupo  estado: 
Andlise  e  listagem  completa  das  sociedades  do  sector  publico  empresarial. 
Lisbon:  Editora  SOJOURNAL,  1979. 

Maxwell,  Kenneth,  and  Michael  H.  Haltzel  (eds.).  Portugal:  An- 
cient Country,  Young  Democracy .  Washington:  The  Wilson  Center 
Press,  1990. 

Morrison,  Rodney  J.  Portugal:  Revolutionary  Change  in  an  Open  Econ- 
omy. Boston:  Auburn  House,  1981. 

Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development.  Eco- 
nomic Outlook:  Historical  Statistics,  1960-1990.  Paris:  1992. 

 .  Economic  Survey:  Portugal,  1981.  Paris:  1981. 

 .  Economic  Survey:  Portugal,  1988-89.  Paris:  1989. 

 .  Economic  Survey:  Portugal,  1991-1992.  Paris:  1992. 

.  Economic  Survey:  Portugal,  1991-1992,  Statistical  Annex. 
Paris:  1992. 

Palha,  Ana  Maria  de  Castro.  The  Banking  and  Financial  System  in 
Portugal.  (Discussion  paper,  No.  3/1.)  Lisbon:  Banco  de  Portu- 
gal, April  1983. 

Pattee,  Richard.  Portugal  and  the  Portuguese  World.  Milwaukee,  Wis- 
consin: Bruce,  1957. 

Pearson,  Scott  R.,  et  al.  Portuguese  Agriculture  in  Transition.  Ithaca, 
New  York:  Cornell  University  Press,  1987. 

Pintado,  Valentina  Xavier.  Structure  and  Growth  of  the  Portuguese  Econ- 
omy. Geneva:  European  Free  Trade  Association,  1964. 

Portugal.  Ill  Piano  de  Fomento  para  1968-1973.  Lisbon:  Secretaria 
General  da  Assembleia  Nacional,  1967. 

 Ministry  of  Finance.  Estrategia  de  progresso  controlado,  1.  Lis- 
bon: 1987. 

 Ministry  of  Finance.  Agency  for  Financial  Analysis  of  the 

State  and  Public  Enterprises  (GAFEEP).  0  financiamento  de  sector 
publico.  Lisbon:  n.d. 

 .  Ministry  of  Industry  and  Energy.  0  sector  empresarial  do  es- 
tado na  industria  e  energia:  Andlise  epropostas  de  atuagao.  Lisbon:  1984. 

 Presidencia  do  Conselho.  IV Piano  de  Fomento,  1974-1979, 

1.  Lisbon:  Imprensa  Nacional,  1973. 

"Portugal's  Free  Trade  Ties  in  Europe  Give  New  Thrust  to  Por- 
tugal's Growth,"  IMF  Survey,  3,  No.  4,  April  22,  1974,  119-21. 

Raby,  Dawn  Linda.  "Portugal."  Pages  357-72  in  Joan  Camp- 
bell and  John  P.  Windmuller  (eds.),  European  Labor  Unions.  West- 
port,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1992. 


291 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

Sanders,  Thomas  G.  Portuguese  Migrants — International  and  Domes- 
tic. (Universities  Field  Staff  International,  UFSI  Reports,  No. 
18.)  Indianapolis:  1986. 

Schmitt,  Hans  O.  Economic  Stabilization  and  Growth  in  Portugal.  (Oc- 
casional Paper,  No.  2.)  Washington:  International  Monetary 
Fund,  April  1981. 

Smith,  T.  Lynn.  "The  Social  Relationship  of  Man  to  the  Land 
in  Portugal,"  Revue  Internationale  de  Sociologie  [Paris],  2,  No.  2, 
December  1965,  1-30. 

Spmola,  Antonio  de.  Portugal  and  the  Future.  Johannesburg:  Per- 
skor,  1974. 

Stoleroff,  Alan  D.  "Between  Corporatism  and  Class  Struggle:  The 
Portuguese  Labour  Movement  and  the  Cavaco  Silva  Govern- 
ments," West  European  Politics  [London],  15,  No.  4,  October 
1992,  118-50. 

Tovias,  Alfred.  Foreign  Economic  Relations  of  the  European  Communi- 
ty: The  Impact  of  Spain  and  Portugal.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne 
Rienner,  1990. 

United  Nations.  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization.  Yearbook: 

Production,  1990,  44.  Rome:  1991. 
Veiga,  Antonio  Jorge  da  Motta.  Draft  of  the  Third  Development  Plan 

for  1968-1973.  Lisbon:  National  Information  Service,  June  1967. 
World  Bank.  Portugal:  Current  and  Prospective  Economic  Trends. 

Washington:  1978. 
Yannopolous,  George  N.  (ed.).  European  Integration  and  the  Iberian 

Economies.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1989. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  also  were  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Economist  [London];  Economist  In- 
telligence Unit,  Country  Profile:  Portugal  [London];  Economist  In- 
telligence Unit,  Country  Report:  Portugal  [London];  Financial  Times 
[London].) 


Chapter  4 

Agee,  Warren  Kendall,  and  Nelson  Traquima.  A  Frustrated  Fourth 
Estate:  Portugal's  Post-Revolutionary  Mass  Media.  Columbia:  Associ- 
ation for  Education  in  Journalism  and  Mass  Communication, 
College  of  Journalism,  University  of  South  Carolina,  1984. 

"Ambal  Cavaco  Silva."  Pages  123-27  in  Current  Biography  Year- 
book, 1991.  Bronx,  New  York:  H.  W.  Wilson,  1991. 

Barreto,  Jose.  "Portugal:  Industrial  Relations  under  Democracy." 
Pages  445-81  in  Anthony  Ferner  and  Richard  Hyman  (eds.), 


292 


Bibliography 


Industrial  Relations  in  the  New  Europe.  Oxford:  Basil  Blackwell, 
1992. 

Bermeo,  Nancy.  "Redemocratization  and  Transition  Elections: 
A  Comparison  of  Spain  and  Portugal,"  Comparative  Politics,  19, 
No.  2,  January  1987,  213-31. 

 .  The  Revolution  Within  the  Revolution:  Workers'  Control  in  Rural 

Portugal.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1986. 

Blaustein,  Albert  P.,  and  Gisbert  H.  Flanz  (eds.).  Constitutions  of 
the  Countries  of  the  World.  New  York:  Oceana,  1991. 

Bruce,  Neil.  Portugal:  The  Last  Empire.  New  York:  Wiley,  1975. 

Bruneau,  Thomas  C.  "Church  and  State  in  Portugal:  Crises  of 
Cross  and  Sword,"  Journal  of  Church  and  State,  18,  No.  3,  Au- 
tumn 1976,  463-90. 

 .  Politics  and  Nationhood:  Post-Revolutionary  Portugal.  New  York: 

Praeger,  1984. 

Bruneau,  Thomas  C,  and  Mario  Bacalhau.  Os  Portugueses  e  a  po- 
Utica  quatro  anos  depois  do  25  de  abril.  Lisbon:  Editorial  Meseta, 
1978. 

Bruneau,  Thomas  C,  and  Alex  Macleod.  Politics  in  Contemporary 
Portugal:  Parties  and  the  Consolidation  of  Democracy.  Boulder,  Colora- 
do: Lynne  Rienner,  1986. 

Bruneau,  Thomas  C,  Victor  M.P.  Da  Rosa,  and  Alex  Macleod 
(eds.).  Portugal  in  Development:  Emigration,  Industrialization,  and  the 
European  Community.  Ottawa:  University  of  Ottawa  Press,  1984. 

Calder,  Carlos.  "An  Orange  Sweep:  The  Portuguese  General  Elec- 
tion of  1991,"  West  European  Politics  [London],  15,  No.  2,  April 
1992,  167-70. 

Corkill,  David.  "Portugal's  Political  Transformation:  The  Elec- 
tion of  July  1987,"  Parliamentary  Affairs  [Oxford],  41,  No.  2,  April 
1988,  247-57. 

 "The  Portuguese  Presidential  Election  of  13  January 

1991,"  West  European  Politics  [London],  14,  No.  4,  October  1991, 
185-92. 

Cruz,  M.  Braga  da,  and  Miguel  Lobo  Antunes.  "Revolutionary 
Transition  and  Problems  of  Parliamentary  Institutionalization: 
The  Case  of  the  Portuguese  National  Assembly."  Pages  154-83 
in  Ulrike  Liebert  and  Maruizio  Cotta  (eds.),  Parliament  and 
Democratic  Consolidation  in  Southern  Europe:  Greece,  Italy,  Portugal, 
Spain  and  Turkey.  London:  Pinter,  1990. 

Cunha,  Carlos  A.  The  Portuguese  Communist  Party  }s  Strategy  for  Power, 
1921-1986.  New  York:  Garland,  1992. 

Cutileiro,  Jose.  A  Portuguese  Rural  Society.  Oxford:  Clarendon  Press, 
1971. 

Eisfeld,  Rainer.  "Political  and  Economic  Problems  of  Portugal's 


293 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Accession  to  the  EC,"  Assuntos  Europeus  [Lisbon],  1982,  345- 
81. 

Ferreira,  Hugo  Gil,  and  Michael  W.  Marshall  (eds.).  Portugal's 
Revolution:  Ten  Years  On.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University 
Press,  1986. 

Figueiredo,  Antonio  de.  Portugal:  Fifty  Years  of  Dictatorship.  New 
York:  Holmes  and  Meier,  1975. 

Gallagher,  Tom.  "Goodbye  to  Revolution:  The  Portuguese  Elec- 
tion of  July  1987,"  West  European  Politics  [London],  11,  No.  1, 
January  1988,  140-45. 

 Portugal:  A  Twentieth  Century  Interpretation.  Manchester: 

Manchester  University  Press,  1983. 

 .  "Portugal's  Bid  for  Democracy:  The  Role  of  the  Socialist 

Party,"  West  European  Politics  [London],  2,  No.  2,  May  1979, 
198-217. 

 "The  Portuguese  Communist  Party."  Pages  45-65  in 

Bogdan  Szajkowski  (ed.),  Marxist  Local  Governments  in  Western  Eu- 
rope and  Japan.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1985. 

 "Twice  Choosing  the  Unexpected:  the  Portuguese  Elec- 
tions of  1985  and  1986,"  West  European  Politics  [London],  9,  No. 
4,  October  1986,  233-37. 

Gaspar,  Carlos.  "Portuguese  Communism  since  1976:  Limited 
Decline,"  Problems  of  Communism,  39,  No.  1 ,  January-February 
1990,  45-63. 

Gladdish,  Ken.  "Portugal:  An  Open  Verdict."  Pages  104-25  in 
Geoffrey  Pridham  (ed.),  Securing  Democracy:  Political  Parties  and 
Democratic  Consolidation  in  Southern  Europe.  London:  Routledge, 
1990. 

Graham,  Lawrence  S.  Portugal:  The  Decline  and  Collapse  of  an 
Authoritarian  Order.  Beverly  Hills,  California:  Sage,  1975. 

Graham,  Lawrence  S.,  and  Harry  M.  Makler  (eds.).  Contemporary 
Portugal:  The  Revolution  and  Its  Antecedents.  Austin:  University  of 
Texas  Press,  1979. 

Graham,  Lawrence  S.,  and  Douglas  L.  Wheeler  (eds.).  In  Search 
of  Modern  Portugal:  The  Revolution  and  Its  Consequences,  Madison: 
University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1983. 

Gunther,  Richard.  "Spain  and  Portugal."  Pages  214-64  in  Ger- 
ald A.  Dorfman  and  Peter  J.  Duignan  (eds.),  Politics  in  Western 
Europe.  (2d  ed.)  Stanford,  California:  Hoover  Institution  Press, 
1991. 

Harvey,  Robert.  Portugal:  Birth  of  a  Democracy.  London:  Macmil- 
lan,  1978. 

Kay,  Hugh.  Salazar  and  Modern  Portugal.  New  York:  Hawthorn 
Books,  1970. 


294 


Bibliography 


Macleod,  Alex.  "Portrait  of  a  Model  Ally:  The  Portuguese  Com- 
munist Party  and  the  International  Communist  Movement, 
1968-1983,"  Studies  in  Comparative  Communism,  17,  No.  1,  Spring 
1984,  31-52. 

MacDonald,  Scott  B.  European  Destiny,  Atlantic  Transformations:  Por- 
tuguese Foreign  Policy  under  the  Second  Republic,  1974-1992.  New 
Brunswick,  New  Jersey:  Transaction,  1993. 

Maxwell,  Kenneth.  "The  Hidden  Revolution  in  Portugal,"  New 
York  Review  of  Books,  22,  No.  6,  April  17,  1975,  29-35. 

 .  "Portugal  under  Pressure,"  New  York  Review  of  Books,  22, 

No.  9,  May  29,  1975,  20-30. 

 .  "The  Thorns  of  the  Portuguese  Revolution,"  Foreign  Af- 
fairs, 54,  No.  2,  January  1976,  250-70. 

Maxwell,  Kenneth  (ed.).  Portugal  in  the  1980s:  Dilemmas  of  Democratic 
Consolidation.  (Contributions  in  Political  Science,  No.  138.)  New 
York:  Greenwood  Press,  1986. 

 Portugal:  Ten  Years  after  the  Revolution:  Reports  of  Three 

Columbia- Gulbenkian  Workshops.  New  York:  Research  Institute  on 
International  Change,  Columbia  University  Press,  1984. 

Maxwell,  Kenneth,  and  Michael  H.  Haltzel  (eds.).  Portugal:  An- 
cient Country,  Young  Democracy.  Washington:  The  Wilson  Center 
Press,  1990. 

Maxwell,  Kenneth,  and  Scott  C.  Monje  (eds.).  Portugal:  The  Con- 
stitution and  the  Consolidation  of  Democracy,  1976-1989.  (Camoes 
Center  Special  Report,  No.  2.)  New  York:  Camoes  Center,  1990. 

Opello,  Walter  C,  Jr.  "Local  Government  and  Political  Culture 
in  a  Portuguese  Rural  County,"  Comparative  Politics,  13,  No.  3, 
April  1981,  271-89. 

 "The  New  Parliament  in  Portugal,"  Legislative  Studies 

Quarterly,  3,  No.  2,  May  1978,  309-34. 

 Portugal:  From  Monarchy  to  Pluralist  Democracy.  Boulder, 

Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1991. 

 "Portugal's  Parliament:  An  Organizational  Analysis  of 

Legislative  Performance,"  Legislative  Studies  Quarterly,  11,  No. 
3,  August  1986,  291-319. 

 Portugal's  Political  Development:  A  Comparative  Approach.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

 .  "The  Second  Portuguese  Republic:  Politico- Admin- 
istrative Decentralization  since  April  25,  1974,"  Iberian  Studies 
[Keele,  Staffordshire,  United  Kingdom] ,  7,  No.  1,  Spring  1978, 
43-48. 

Pimlott,  Ben.  "Portugal — Two  Battles  in  the  War  of  the  Consti- 
tution," West  European  Politics  [London],  4,  No.  3,  October  1981, 
286-96. 


295 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Porch,  Douglas.  The  Portuguese  Armed  Forces  and  the  Revolution.  Lon- 
don: Croom  Helm,  1977. 

Raby,  Dawn  Linda.  "Portugal."  Pages  357-72  in  Joan  Camp- 
bell (ed.),  European  Labor  Unions.  Westport,  Conneticut:  Green- 
wood Press,  1992. 

Robinson,  Richard  Alan  Hodgson.  Contemporary  Portugal:  A  History. 
London:  George  Allen  and  Unwin,  1979. 

Smith,  Diana.  Portugal  and  the  Challenge  of  1992.  (Camoes  Center 
Special  Report,  No.  1.)  New  York:  Camoes  Center,  1990. 

Spmola,  Antonio  de.  Portugal  and  the  Future.  Johannesburg:  Per- 
skor,  1974. 

Stoleroff,  Alan  D.  "Between  Corporatism  and  Class  Struggle:  The 
Portuguese  Labour  Movement  and  the  Cavaco  Silva  Govern- 
ments," West  European  Politics  [London],  15,  No.  4,  October 
1992,  118-50. 

Wiarda,  Howard  J.  Corporatism  and  Development:  The  Portuguese  Ex- 
perience. Amherst:  University  of  Massachusetts  Press,  1977. 

 .  Politics  in  Iberia:  The  Political  Systems  of  Spain  and  Portugal. 

New  York:  Harper  Collins,  1993. 

 .  The  Transition  to  Democracy  in  Spain  and  Portugal.  Washing- 
ton: The  American  Enterprise  Institute  for  Public  Research, 
1989. 


Chapter  5 

Barata,  Filipe  Themudo.  "The  Defense  Industry  of  Portugal," 
NATO's  Sixteen  Nations  [Brussels],  (Special  Issue,  No.  2),  28, 
No.  6,  1983,  71-72,  74-75. 

Bosgra,  S.J.,  and  Chr.  van  Krimpen.  Portugal  and  NATO.  Amster- 
dam: Angola  Comite,  1972. 

Brochado  de  Miranda,  Jorge  Manuel.  "Air  Operations  in  the 
Eastern  Atlantic,"  NATO's  Sixteen  Nations  [Brussels],  32, 
February-March  1987,  91-93. 

Brochado  de  Miranda,  Jorge  Manuel.  "Portugal."  Pages  855-59 
in  Gregory  R.  Copley  (ed.),  Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs  Handbook 
1989.  Alexandria,  Virginia:  International  Media,  1989. 

Bruneau,  Thomas  C.  Politics  and  Nationhood:  Post- Revolutionary  Por- 
tugal. New  York:  Praeger,  1984. 

Carneiro,  F.  Sa.  "Portugal  and  the  North  Atlantic  Alliance,"  At- 
lantic Community  Quarterly,  18,  Winter  1980-81,  387-93. 

Crollen,  Luc.  Portugal,  the  United  States,  and  NATO.  (Studies  in  In- 
ternational Relations  Series.)  Leuven,  Belgium:  Leuven  Univer- 
sity Press,  1973. 


296 


Bibliography 


Darnton,  John.  ' 'Lisbon  Officers  Club:  Coup  Makers  or  Break- 
ers?" New  York  Times,  February  18,  1984,  A2. 

Davis,  Brian  L.  NATO  Forces:  An  Illustrated  Reference  to  Their  Organi- 
zation and  Insignia.  London:  Blandford,  1988. 

Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs  Handbook,  1989.  (Ed.,  Gregory  R.  Copley.) 
Alexandria,  Virginia:  International  Media,  1989. 

Eisfeld,  Rainer.  "Revolutionare  und  gegenrevolutionare  Bewegun- 
gen  in  Portugal  seit  1974:  Rolle  und  Entwicklung  der  Streit- 
krafte,"  Politische  Vierteljahresschrift  [Wiesbaden,  Germany],  23, 
No.  2,  July  1982,  153-77. 

Gallagher,  Tom.  Portugal:  A  Twentieth  Century  Interpretation.  Man- 
chester: Manchester  University  Press,  1983. 

Gaspar,  Carlos.  "Portuguese  Communism  since  1976:  Limited 
Decline,"  Problems  of  Communism,  39,  No.  1 ,  January-February 
1990,  45-63. 

Hammond,  John  L.  "The  Armed  Forces  Movement  and  the  Por- 
tuguese Revolution:  Two  Steps  Forward,  One  Step  Back,  "yowr- 
nal  of  Political  and  Military  Sociology,  10,  No.  1,  Spring  1982, 
71-101. 

Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1992-93.  London:  Jane's  Information  Group, 
1992. 

Jane's  NATO  Handbook,  1990-91.  Coulsdon,  Surrey,  United  King- 
dom: Jane's  Information  Group,  1990. 

Leitao,  Antonio  Egidio  de  Sousa.  "The  Portuguese  Navy,"  Naval 
Forces  [Aldershot,  Hampshire,  United  Kingdom],  4,  No.  5,  1983, 
24-29. 

 "The  Strategic  Relevance  of  the  Azores,"  NATO's  Six- 
teen Nations  [Brussels],  29,  No.  1,  April-May  1984. 

Manwaring,  Max  G.,  and  Alan  Ned  Sabrosky.  "Iberia's  Role  in 
NATO's  Future:  Strategic  Reserve,  Reinforcement,  and 
Redoubt,"  Parameters,  16,  No.  1,  Spring  1986,  48-54. 

Maxwell,  Kenneth  (ed.).  Portuguese  Defense  and  Foreign  Policy  since 
Democratization.  (Camoes  Center  Special  Report,  No.  3.)  New 
York:  Camoes  Center,  1991. 

Menual,  Stewart.  "The  Geo-strategic  Importance  of  the  Iberian 
Peninsula,"  Conflict  Studies  No.  133.  London:  Institute  for  the 
Study  of  Conflict,  1981. 

Midlane,  Matthew.  "The  Spanish  and  Portuguese  Defense 
Forces."  Pages  126-56  in  L.H.  Gann  (ed.),  The  Defense  of  Western 
Europe.  Dover,  Massachusetts:  Auburn  House,  1987. 

 "Portugal."  Pages  483-88  in  John  Keegan  (ed.),  World 

Armies.  Detroit:  Gale  Research,  1983. 

Miguel,  Mario  Firmino.  "Army  Support  of  the  Southern  Flank: 


297 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


The  First  Composite  Brigade,"  NATO's  Sixteen  Nations  [Brus- 
sels], 33,  October  1988,  67-68. 

The  Military  Balance,  1990-1991.  London:  International  Institute 
for  Strategic  Studies,  1990. 

The  Military  Balance,  1991-1992.  London:  International  Institute 
for  Strategic  Studies,  1991. 

The  Military  Balance,  1992-1993.  London:  International  Institute 
for  Strategic  Studies,  1992. 

Milton,  T.R.  "Airpower  in  Iberia,"  Air  Force  Magazine,  69,  No. 
6,  June  1986,  94-99. 

The  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization:  Facts  and  Figures.  Brussels: 
NATO  Information  Service,  1989. 

Pereira,  Bernardo  Futscher.  "Portugal  and  Spain."  Pages  63-87 
in  Kenneth  Maxwell  (ed.),  Portugal  in  the  1980s:  Dilemmas  of 
Democratic  Consolidation.  (Constributions  in  Political  Science,  No. 
138.)  New  York:  Greenwood  Press,  1986. 

Piatt,  Alan.  "NATO's  Southern  Flank:  A  Troubled  Region." 
Pages  164-85  in  Barry  M.  Blechman  and  Edward  N.  Luttwak 
(eds.),  Global  Security:  A  Review  of  Strategic  and  Economic  Issues.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 

Porch,  Douglas.  The  Portuguese  Armed  Forces  and  the  Revolution.  Lon- 
don: Croom  Helm,  1977. 

Portugal.  Instituto  National  de  Estatistica.  Anudrio  Estatistico  1988: 
Continente,  Acores  e  Madeira.  Lisbon:  1988. 

"Portugal."  Pages  318-20  in  Thomas  Kurian  (ed.),  World  Ency- 
clopedia of  Police  Forces  and  Penal  Systems.  New  York:  Facts  on  File, 
1988. 

"Portugal."  Pages  344-50  in  Truppendienst  Handbook:  The  Armies 
of  the  NATO  Nations,  3.  Vienna:  Herold,  1987. 

"Portugal."  In  DMS Market  Intelligenge  Reports :  Greenwich,  Con- 
necticut: Defense  Market  Services,  1989. 

"Portuguese  Air  Force."  Pages  385-88  in  International  Air  Forces 
and  Military  Aircraft  Directory.  Stapleford  Airfield,  Essex,  United 
Kingdom:  Aviation  Advisory  Services,  1989. 

Robinson,  H.  Leslie.  "Portugal."  Pages  613-16  in  Richard  F. 
Staar  (ed.),  1989  Yearbook  on  International  Communist  Affairs.  Stan- 
ford, California:  Hoover  Institution  Press,  1989. 

Robinson,  Richard  Alan  Hodgson.  Contemporary  Portugal:  A  Histo- 
ry. London:  George  Allen  and  Unwin,  1979. 

Santos,  Alberto.  La  Peninsula  luso-iberique:  Enjeu  strategique.  Paris: 
Fondation  pour  les  etudes  de  defence  nationale,  1980. 

Sharpe,  Richard  (ed.).  Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1992-93.  London: 
Jane's  Information  Group,  1992. 


298 


Bibliography 


Silva,  Tomas  George  Conceicao.  "Reorganization  and  Moderni- 
zation of  the  Portuguese  Air  Force,"  NATO's  Sixteen  Nations 
[Brussels],  36,  No.  1,  February  1991,  64-67. 

Snyder,  Jed  C.  Defending  the  Fringe:  NATO,  the  Mediterranean,  and 
the  Persian  Gulf.  (SAIS  Papers  in  International  Affairs,  No.  11.) 
Washington:  Johns  Hopkins  Foreign  Policy  Institute,  1987. 

Spmola,  Antonio  de.  Portugal  and  the  Future.  Johannesburg:  Per- 
skor,  1974. 

Stenhouse,  Mark,  and  Bruce  George.  "Portugal."  Pages  40-43 
in  Bruce  George  (ed.),  Jane's  NATO  Handbook,  1989-90.  Couls- 
don,  Surrey,  United  Kingdom:  Jane's  Information  Group,  1989. 

Stenhouse,  Mark.  "Portugal."  Pages  389-92  in  Bruce  George  (ed.), 
Jane's  NATO  Handbook,  1990-91.  Coulsdon,  Surrey,  United 
Kingdom:  Jane's  Information  Group,  1990. 

Thomas,  Nigel.  NATO  Armies  Today.  London:  Osprey,  1988. 

United  States.  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World  Mili- 
tary Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1989.  Washington:  GPO, 
1990. 

 Department  of  Defense.  Terrorist  Group  Prof iles .  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  1988. 

 .  Department  of  State.  Background  Notes :  Portugal.  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  1990. 

 Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1989.  (Report  submitted  to  the  United  States  Congress, 
101st,  2d  Session.  House  of  Representatives,  Committee  on  For- 
eign Affairs,  and  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations. 
Washington:  GPO,  1990. 

 .  Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1990.  Report  submitted  to  the  United  States  Congress, 
102d,  1st  Session,  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations,  and 
House  of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs. 
Washington:  GPO,  1991. 

"Unsteady  Course:  Political  Stability  Being  Attained  by  Inches," 
The  Economist  [London],  291,  No.  7348,  June  30,  1984,  7-10. 

Vasconcelos,  Alvaro.  "Portugal  and  NATO,"  NATO  Review,  34, 
No.  2,  April  1986,  8-14. 

 "Portuguese  Defense  Policy:  Internal  Politics  and  Defence 

Commitments."  Pages  86-139  in  John  Chipman  (ed.),  NATO's 
Southern  Allies:  Internal  and  External  Challenges.  London:  Routledge, 
1988. 

Wigg,  Richard.  "Neighbors  with  Their  Backs  to  Each  Other." 

NATO's  Sixteen  Nations  [Brussels],  (Special  Issue,  No.  2.),  28, 

No.  6,  1983,  44-45,  48. 
Williams,  Louis  A.  "The  Atlantic  Connection— IBERLANT," 


299 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

NATO's  Sixteen  Nations  [Brussels],  (Special  Issue,  No.  2.),  28, 
No.  6,  1983,  30-31,  33-35,  38. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  DMS  Market  Intelligence  Reports; 
Economist  [London];  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily 
Report:  West  Europe;  Jane's  Defence  Weekly  [London] ;  Jornal  do  Exer- 
cito  [Lisbon];  Keesing's  Record  of  World  Events;  New  York  Times;  and 
Washington  Post.) 


300 


Glossary 


conto — See  escudo. 

Council  of  Europe — Founded  in  1949  to  foster  parliamentary 
democracy,  social  and  economic  progress,  and  unity  among 
its  member  states.  Membership  is  limited  to  those  European 
countries  that  respect  the  rule  of  law  and  the  fundamental  hu- 
man rights  and  freedoms  of  all  those  living  within  their  bound- 
aries. As  of  1993,  its  membership  consisted  of  twenty-seven 
European  countries. 

d'Hondt  method — Also  known  as  the  highest-average  method  of 
determining  the  allocation  of  seats  to  political  parties  after  an 
election.  It  was  devised  by  the  Belgian  Victor  d'Hondt  to  be 
used  in  electoral  systems  based  on  proportional  representation. 
In  addition  to  Portugal,  Austria,  Belgium,  Finland,  and  Swit- 
zerland have  adopted  the  method.  Under  this  procedure,  voters 
do  not  choose  a  candidate  but  vote  for  a  party,  each  of  which 
has  published  a  list  of  candidates.  The  party  winning  the  most 
votes  in  a  constituency  is  awarded  the  area's  first  seat,  which 
goes  to  the  candidate  at  the  top  of  the  winning  party's  list.  The 
total  vote  of  this  party  is  then  divided  by  two,  and  this  amount 
is  compared  with  the  totals  of  other  parties.  The  party  with 
the  greatest  number  of  votes  at  this  point  receives  the  next  seat 
to  be  awarded.  Each  time  a  party  wins  a  seat,  its  total  is  divid- 
ed by  the  number  of  seats  it  has  won  plus  one.  This  process 
continues  until  all  the  seats  in  a  constituency  are  awarded.  The 
d'Hondt  method  slightly  favors  large  parties.  Because  there  is 
no  minimum  threshold  for  winning  a  seat,  however,  small  par- 
ties can  also  elect  representatives. 

escudo — Basic  Portuguese  currency  unit,  consists  of  100  centavos. 
1,000  escudos  are  a  conto.  The  exchange  rate  averaged  27.5 
escudos  =  US$1  in  1975;  53.0  escudos  =  US$1  in  1980;  170.4 
escudos  =  US$1  in  1985;  144.0  escudos  =  US$1  in  1988;  157.5 
escudos  =  US$1  in  1989;  142.5  escudos  =  US$1  in  1990;  144.5 
escudos  =  US$1  in  1991;  and  135.0  escudos  =  US$1  in  1992. 

European  Community  (EC — also  commonly  called  the  Commu- 
nity)— The  EC  comprises  three  communities:  the  European 
Coal  and  Steel  Community  (ECSC),  the  European  Economic 
Community  (EEC),  and  the  European  Atomic  Energy  Com- 
munity (EURATOM).  Each  community  is  a  legally  distinct 
body,  but  since  1967  they  have  shared  common  governing  in- 
stitutions. The  EC  forms  more  than  a  framework  for  free  trade 


301 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

and  economic  cooperation:  the  signatories  to  the  treaties  govern- 
ing the  communities  have  agreed  in  principle  to  integrate  their 
economies  and  ultimately  to  form  a  political  union.  Belgium, 
France,  Italy,  Luxembourg,  the  Netherlands,  and  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany)  are  charter  members 
of  the  EG.  Britain,  Denmark,  and  Ireland  joined  on  January 
1,  1973;  Greece  became  a  member  on  January  1,  1981;  and 
Portugal  and  Spain  entered  on  January  1,  1986. 

European  Currency  Unit  (ECU)— Instituted  in  1979,  the  ECU  is 
the  unit  of  account  of  the  EC  (q.v.).  The  value  of  the  ECU 
is  determined  by  the  value  of  a  basket  that  includes  the  cur- 
rencies of  all  EC  member  states.  In  establishing  the  value  of 
the  basket,  each  member's  currency  receives  a  share  that  reflects 
the  relative  strength  and  importance  of  the  member's  economy. 
On  September  30,  1992,  one  ECU  was  equivalent  to  US$1 .40. 

European  Economic  Community  (EEC) — See  EC. 

European  Free  Trade  Association  (EFT A) — Founded  in  1961, 
EFTA  aims  at  supporting  free  trade  among  its  members  and 
increasing  the  liberalization  of  trade  on  a  global  basis,  but  par- 
ticularly within  Western  Europe.  In  1993  the  organization's 
member  states  were  Austria,  Finland,  Iceland,  Norway,  Swe- 
den, and  Switzerland. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — The  total  value  of  goods  and  ser- 
vices produced  by  the  domestic  economy  during  a  given  peri- 
od, usually  one  year.  Obtained  by  adding  the  value  contributed 
by  each  sector  of  the  economy  in  the  form  of  profits,  compen- 
sation to  employees,  and  depreciation  (consumption  of  capi- 
tal). Most  GDP  usage  in  this  book  is  based  on  GDP  at  factor 
cost.  Real  GDP  is  the  value  of  GDP  when  inflation  has  been 
taken  into  account. 

gross  national  product  (GNP) — Obtained  by  adding  GDP  (q.  v. ) 
and  the  income  received  from  abroad  by  residents  less  pay- 
ments remitted  abroad  to  nonresidents.  GNP  valued  at  mar- 
ket prices  is  used  in  this  book.  Real  GNP  is  the  value  of  GNP 
when  inflation  has  been  taken  into  account. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  (q.v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  (UN)  that  takes  responsi- 
bility for  stabilizing  international  exchange  rates  and  payments. 
The  main  business  of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its 
members  when  they  experience  balance-of-payment  difficul- 
ties. These  loans  often  carry  conditions  that  require  substan- 
tial internal  economic  adjustments  by  the  recipients. 

liberation  theology — An  activist  movement  led  by  Roman  Catholic 


302 


Glossary 


clergy  who  trace  their  inspiration  to  Vatican  Council  II  (1965), 
where  some  church  procedures  were  liberalized,  and  the  Sec- 
ond Latin  American  Bishops'  Conference  in  Medellm  (1968), 
which  endorsed  greater  direct  efforts  to  improve  the  lot  of  the 
poor.  Advocates  of  liberation  theology — sometimes  referred  to 
as  "liberationists" — work  mainly  through  Christian  Base  Com- 
munities (Comunidades  Eclesiasticas  de  Base — CEBs).  Mem- 
bers of  CEBS  meet  in  small  groups  to  reflect  on  scripture  and 
discuss  its  meaning  in  their  lives.  They  are  introduced  to  a  rad- 
ical interpretation  of  the  Bible,  one  that  employs  Marxist  ter- 
minology to  analyze  and  condemn  the  wide  disparities  between 
the  wealthy  elite  and  the  impoverished  masses  in  most  under- 
developed countries.  This  reflection  often  leads  members  to  or- 
ganize to  improve  their  living  standards  through  cooperatives 
and  civic  improvement  projects. 

Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development 
(OECD) — Established  in  1961  to  replace  the  Organisation  for 
European  Economic  Co-operation,  the  OECD  is  an  interna- 
tional organization  composed  of  the  industrialized  market  econ- 
omy countries  (twenty-four  full  members  as  of  1993).  It  seeks 
to  promote  economic  and  social  welfare  in  member  countries, 
as  well  as  in  developing  countries,  by  providing  a  forum  in 
which  to  formulate  and  to  coordinate  policies. 

rotativismo — The  alternation  of  political  factions  at  regular  inter- 
vals with  little  or  no  change  to  the  political  system  as  a  whole. 

single  market — The  Single  European  Act  of  1987  committed  the 
EC  (q.v.)  to  gradually  reduce  restrictions  so  that  by  the  end 
of  1992  the  EC  would  constitute  a  single  market  in  which  the 
free  movement  of  goods,  persons,  and  capital  was  guaranteed. 

VAT — Value-added  tax.  A  tax  applied  to  the  additional  value  creat- 
ed at  a  given  stage  of  production  and  calculated  as  a  percen- 
tage of  the  difference  between  the  product  value  at  that  stage 
and  the  cost  of  all  materials  and  services  purchased  as  inputs. 
The  VAT  is  the  primary  form  of  indirect  taxation  applied  in 
the  EEC  (q.v.),  and  it  is  the  basis  of  each  country's  contribu- 
tion to  the  community  budget. 

Western  European  Union  (WEU) — Founded  in  1948  to  facilitate 
West  European  cooperation  in  economic,  social,  cultural,  and 
defense  matters.  Reactivated  in  1984  to  concentrate  on  the 
defense  and  disarmament  concerns  of  its  nine  members  (Bel- 
gium, France,  Germany,  Italy,  Luxembourg,  the  Netherlands, 
Portugal,  Spain,  and  Britain),  the  WEU  is  headed  by  a  coun- 
cil consisting  of  its  members'  ministers  of  foreign  affairs  and 


303 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 

defense.  The  council  meets  twice  a  year;  lower-level  WEU  en- 
tities meet  with  greater  frequency. 
World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  four 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA),  the  International  Finance  Cor- 
poration (IFC),  and  the  Multilateral  Investment  Guarantee 
Agency  (MIGA).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  the 
primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to  developing  countries  for 
productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund  ad- 
ministered by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to  fur- 
nish credits  to  the  poorest  developing  countries  on  much  easier 
terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC,  found- 
ed in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD  through 
loans  and  assistance  designed  specifically  to  encourage  the 
growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  less  developed^eoun- 
tries.  The  president  and  certain  senior  officers  of  the  IBRD 
hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC.  The  four  institutions  are 
owned  by  the  governments  of  the  countries  that  subscribe  their 
capital.  To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group,  member  states 
must  first  belong  to  the  IMF  (q.v.). 


304 


Index 


abortion,  xxxiv,  82,  99,  204 

Abrilada  revolt  (1824),  44 

Accao  Nacional  Popular  (ANP).  See  Na- 
tional Popular  Action 

ACDA.  See  United  States  Arms  Control 
and  Disarmament  Agency 

AD.  See  Democratic  Alliance 

Afonsine  Ordinances,  22 

Afonso  (duke  of  Braganca),  22,  23 

Afonso  II,  12;  landownership  under,  16; 
royal  patrimony  under,  16 

Afonso  III,  12,  13 

Afonso  IV,  18,  19 

Afonso  V,  22,  23;  explorations  under,  26; 

Moroccan  campaigns  of,  26 
Afonso  VI,  37 

Afonso  Henri ques:  background  of,  9;  be- 
comes king,  10;  land  distribution  by, 
12;  political  organization  under,  13-16; 
religious  administration  under,  14-15, 
96;  royal  council  of,  13;  settler  commu- 
nities under,  12;  social  organization  un- 
der, 13-16;  territorial  administration 
under,  14;  territorial  enlargement  by, 
10-12 

af ranees  ados ,  43 

Africa,  213-14;  armed  forces  in,  xxv,  60, 
227-34;  decolonization  of,  xxvii,  233; 
emigration  to,  78;  exploration  of  coast 
of,  25-26;  exploration  of  interior  of, 
48-49;  partition  of,  49;  Portuguese  liv- 
ing in,  78;  returnees  from,  xxviii,  73, 
75,  78-79,  95,  122,  136-37,  177 
Africa,  North:  relations  with,  218,  238 
African  campaigns,  171,  213-14,  230, 
263;  arms  supplied  for,  232;  deaths  in, 
228,  229;  military  morale  in,  229;  op- 
position to,  230-31 
African  Party  for  the  Independence  of 
Guinea  and  Cape  Verde  (PAIGC), 
213-14,  228 
AFSOUTH.  See  Allied  Land  Forces 

Southern  Europe 
agrarian  reform,  143-44,  174,  209 
Agrarian  Reform  Law  (1975),  143 
Agrarian  Reform  Law  (1988),  144 
agricultural:  development,  18,  40;  estates, 
91,  124,  184;  labor,  16,  143;  policy, 


144;  prices,  144;  production,  xxxii, 

140,  142;  zones,  140-41 

Agricultural  Institute,  104 

agricultural  products  (see  also  under  in- 
dividual crops):  Brazilian,  38;  exports  of, 
156;  grain,  141;  tree  crops,  70,  140, 

141,  142 

agriculture:  decollectivization  of,  116, 
143-44,  209;  in  early  history,  4,  5,  6, 
7,  8,  16;  employment  in,  xxxii,  134, 
136,  137;  expansion  of,  38,  40,  120;  ex- 
port crops,  141;  northern,  140-41;  as 
percentage  of  gross  domestic  product, 
120,  123,  139;  productivity  of,  xxxii, 
116,  140;  suitability  for,  70 

AIP.  See  Portuguese  Industrial  As- 
sociation 

Air  College,  249 

air  force,  238,  246-49;  bases,  246;  con- 
scripts, 246,  252;  downsizing  of,  249; 
insignia,  253;  materiel,  246-48;  mis- 
sion of,  246;  modernization  plan,  249; 
number  of  personnel,  239,  246;  origins 
of,  246;  pilot  shortage  in,  249;  ranks, 
253;  reorganized,  223;  in  Spanish  Civil 
War,  246;  spending  on,  256;  training, 
249;  uniforms,  253;  in  World  War  I, 
246 

Air  Force  Academy,  249,  253 
Alans,  6 

Albuquerque,  Afonso  de,  31-32 
Alcalar  necropolis,  4 
aldeamentos,  221 

Alentejo,  10,  13,  16,  67-68;  capture  of, 
10,  12;  farmers  in,  67,  91,  141;  land- 
owners in,  88,  204;  topography  of,  67, 
140,  141 

Alexander  VI  (pope),  32 

Alfonso  VI,  9 

Alfonso  VII,  9,  10 

Alfonso  VIII  of  Castile,  12 

Alfonso  XI,  19 

Algarve,  7,  12,  67,  68;  geography  of,  69, 
141;  Muslim  influence  in,  7,  67;  topog- 
raphy of,  140;  tourism  in,  67 

Alianca  Democraca  (AD).  See  Democratic 
Alliance 

Alianca  Seguradora,  155 


305 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Allied  Land  Forces  Southern  Europe  (AF- 
SOUTH),  243 

Almeida,  Antonio  Jose  de,  52 

Almeida,  Francisco  de,  31 

Amadora:  population  of,  74 

Amaral,  Diogo  Freitas  do,  xxvi,  xxxi, 
201;  as  presidential  candidate,  180 

Amarante,  count  of,  44 

Americas:  emigration  to,  77,  134,  160;  in- 
terest in,  32 

Anchieta,  Jose,  34 

Andalusia,  4 

Andeiro,  Count,  19 

Angediva  Island,  31 

Angola,  49,  227-28;  armed  resistance  by, 
60,  170,  227;  determination  to  retain, 
59;  exploration  of,  48;  immigrants 
from,  95,  136;  independence  for,  124, 
175,  214,  228;  made  a  province,  60;  oil 
in,  60;  Portuguese  deaths  in,  228;  set- 
tlement of,  75,  225;  troops  assigned  to, 
228 

ANP.  See  National  Popular  Action 

anticlerical  laws,  51,  53,  97,  104;  reac- 
tion to,  xxv;  reversed,  98 

Aqueduct  of  Free  Waters,  39 

Aqueduto  das  Aguas  Livres.  See  Aqueduct 
of  Free  Waters 

Arabic  language:  influence  of,  on  Por- 
tuguese, 8,  67 

Argentina:  emigration  to,  77 

Arguin:  factory  at,  25;  as  slave  entrepot, 
25 

armed  forces  {see  also  military),  xxiii, 
xxv-xvi,  xxvii,  xxviii,  239-56;  African 
missions  of,  60,  227-34;  autonomy  of, 
202;  breakdown  in  discipline  of,  233; 
chief  of  staff  of,  239;  civilian  authority 
over,  239;  commander  in  chief  of,  239; 
conditions  in,  249-53;  under  constitu- 
tion of  1976,  182,  234-36;  deaths  of, 
in  African  colonial  wars,  228,  229; 
decline  in  prestige  of,  250;  demobiliza- 
tion of,  136;  dissension  in,  170-71; 
downsizing  of,  223,  249;  historical 
background,  224-29;  missions  of,  224, 
257,  261;  morale  of,  229,  250;  in  New 
State,  225-27;  pay  and  benefits  in,  250; 
personnel  strength  of,  223,  239, 
249-50;  political  role  of,  202-3,  229- 
36;  promotions  in,  250;  purge  of, 
234;  reorganization  of,  225;  uniforms, 
ranks,  and  insignia  of,  253-56 


Armed  Forces  Movement  (MFA),  xxiii, 
xxvi,  61,  124,  167,  172,  173,  198,  213, 
232;  coup  by,  171;  factions  in,  xxvii, 
233;  friction  of,  with  Junta  of  Nation- 
al Salvation,  233;  reorganization  of, 
125 

army,  241-44;  assignments  in,  243;  con- 
scripts, 241,  243;  created,  225;  demobi- 
lization of,  241;  downsizing  of,  249; 
factions  in,  230;  insignia,  253;  liberals 
in,  43;  materiel  of,  244;  military  regions 
of,  241;  military  zones  of,  241;  num- 
ber of  personnel  in,  239,  241,  249; 
officers,  241;  organization  of,  241; 
ranks,  253;  reorganized,  42;  reserves, 
243;  revolution  by,  43-44;  service  ob- 
ligation, 252;  spending  on,  256,  256; 
training  in,  241,  243;  uniforms,  253 

Arriaga,  Kaulza  de,  232 

artisans:  under  Joao  I,  22;  and  repub- 
licanism, 50 

Asian  empire,  31-32;  deterioration  of,  36 

Assembly  of  the  Armed  Forces,  173 

Assembly  of  the  Republic,  xxviii,  187-90; 
appointments  by,  188,  190-91,  266, 
268,  269;  committees  of,  189;  constit- 
uencies of,  188-89;  elections  for,  196; 
members  of,  188;  popular  view  of, 
189-90;  power  of,  188;  sessions  of,  189; 
stability  of,  208;  Standing  Committee 
of,  189;  terms  of  office  in,  188 

Associacao  Industrial  Portuesa  (AIP).  See 
Portuguese  Industrial  Association 

Association  of  the  25th  of  April,  236 

attorney  general,  268 

austerity  measures,  xxxii,  177,  179 

auto-da-fe,  33 

Aveiro,  74;  industry  in,  146 
Avis,  House  of,  3,  19-23 
Azevedo,  Jose  Baptista  Pinheiro  de,  175 
Azorean  Liberation  Front,  267 
Azorean  Nationalist  Movement,  267 
Azores,  70,  73;  autonomy  of,  194;  Brit- 
ish use  of,  216;  discovered,  25;  govern- 
ment of,  195;  Lajes  Air  Base  in,  160, 
216-17,  223,  226,  238,  259;  legislative 
assembly  in,  195;  minister  of  the  repub- 
lic in,  194-95;  powers  of,  194,  195; 
separatist  movement  in,  262;  strategic 
importance  of,  217,  257,  260 

Baixa  Pombalina,  40 


306 


Index 


balance  of  payments,  121,  158-59;  under 

Salazar,  118 
Baldaia,  Afonso,  25 
Balsemao,  Francisco  Pinto,  178;  as  prime 

minister,  178,  200;  resignation  of,  179 
Banco  Borges  e  Irmao,  155 
Banco  Comercial  Portugues  (BCP),  154 
Banco  de  Fomento  e  Exterior,  155 
Banco  Internacional  de  Credito  (BIC), 

154 

Banco  Nacional  Ultramarino,  155 
Banco  Portugues  de  Investimento  (BPI), 
154 

Banco  Portugues  do  Atlantico,  155 
Banco  Totta  e  Acores,  155 
bandeirantes,  38 

banking  {see  also  financial  sector),  153-55; 
foreign  investment  in,  161 

Bank  of  Portugal,  126,  153;  foreign  re- 
serves of,  158 

banks:  commercial,  126;  competition 
among,  126;  control  of,  by  elite  class, 
118;  denationalization  of,  128;  foreign, 
153;  influence  of,  118;  nationalized, 
xxiii,  124,  125,  127,  153,  174,  211; 
privatization  of,  xxxiii,  153;  problems 
in,  153 

Banque  Nationale  de  Paris,  154 

Baptists,  102 

Barclays  Bank,  154 

Battle  of  Alcacer  do  Sal  (1217),  12 

Battle  of  Alfarrobeira,  23 

Battle  of  Aljubarrota,  20-21 

Battle  of  Atoleiros,  20 

Battle  of  Cerneja,  10 

Battle  of  Lourinha  (1808),  42 

Battle  of  Lys  (1918),  225 

Battle  of  Navas  de  Tolosa  (1212),  12 

Battle  of  Salado  (1340),  19 

Bay  of  Arguin,  25 

BCP.  See  Banco  Comercial  Portugues 

Beatriz  (princess),  19 

Beira  Alta,  69 

Beira  Beixa,  69 

Beira  Litoral,  69,  140 

Beira  province,  67,  140 

Beja,  73;  expropriations  of  land  in,  143 

Beja  Air  Base,  248 

Belgium:  Portuguese  guestworkers  in,  79 
Belmira  Martins,  Maria,  125 
Benedictines:  monasteries  of,  12;  regional 

administration  by,  15 
Benguela,  48 


Beresford,  William  Carr,  42,  43 

Berlin  Conference  (1884-85),  49;  rose- 
colored  map,  49 

BIC.  See  Banco  Internacional  de  Credito 

Bloco  Central.  See  Central  Bloc 

Bonaparte,  Napoleon,  41-42,  225 

book  publishing,  212 

Borba  Gato,  Manuel,  38 

Borneo:  exploration  of,  32 

BPI.  See  Banco  Portugues  de  Investimento 

Braga,  74;  industry  in,  146 

Braga,  archbishop  of,  17 

Braga,  Teofilo,  51 

Braganca  (district),  74 

Braganca,  House  of,  3;  established,  22,  36 

brain  drain,  116,  127-28;  analysis  of,  127; 
demographic  distribution  of,  127-28 

Branco,  Aresta,  52 

Bravia,  261 

Brazil:  attempt  by  Dutch  to  take  over,  37; 
colonization  of,  32,  75;  development  of, 
38-39;  discovery  of,  28;  emigration  to, 
127,  134;  evangelization  in,  33-34;  im- 
migrants from,  95,  96;  independence 
of,  declared,  44;  investment  from,  161, 
217;  investment  in,  217;  relations  with, 
217-18 

Britain:  alliance  with,  21,  216,  225,  237; 
blockade  of  France  by,  41;  commercial 
activity  of,  in  Asia,  36;  investment  by, 
160,  161;  Portuguese  guestworkers  in, 
79;  relations  with,  37,  38;  tourists  from, 
150;  trade  with,  38-39,  157;  ultimatum 
of  1890,  49-50 

Bucaco  Mountains,  42 

bureaucracy  (see  also  civil  service):  under 
Joao  I,  22;  in  Revolution  of  1974, 
xxxiii;  under  Salazar,  xxxiii 

Burgundy,  House  of,  3 

business  industrial  class,  65,  86,  88-89, 
204;  emergence  of,  88 

Cabral,  Pedro  Alvares,  28 

Cacilhas  dry  docks,  69 

Cadiz:  ancient  trading  post  at,  5 

Caetano,  Marcello  Jose  das  Neves,  xxv, 
60-61,  120,  224;  background  of,  61; 
censorship  under,  211;  discontent  with, 
65-66,  203;  economic  policy  of,  61; 
exiled,  171;  military  under,  231;  polit- 
ical parties  under,  197;  as  prime  min- 
ister, 60,  170 


307 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Cahora  Bassa  hydroelectric  power  plant, 
214 

Caixa  Geral  de  Depositos,  126,  155 
Camacho,  Manuel  Brito,  52 
Camerte,  Paulo,  33 
Caminhos  de  Ferro  Portugueses  (CP), 

126,  152 
Camoes,  Luis  de,  21 
Canada:  emigration  to,  77,  134 
Cao,  Diogo,  26 

CAP.  See  Common  Agricultural  Policy 

Cape  Bojador,  25 

Capelo,  Hermenegildo,  48-49 

Cape  of  Good  Hope,  26 

Cape  St.  Catherine,  26 

Cape  Verde,  26;  independence  for,  214 

Cape  Verde  Islands:  discovered,  25 

capital:  account,  121;  expenditures,  131; 
flight,  117;  formation,  122;  repatriation 
of,  158 

captaincies,  32 

Captains'  Movement,  232 

Cardoso,  Augusto,  49 

Carlos  I,  50 

Carlucci,  Frank,  217 

Carmona,  Oscar  Fragoso,  54;  as  presi- 
dent, 54,  117,  225 

Carneiro,  Francisco  Sa  ,  xxvi,  178;  death 
of,  xxviii,  178,  200;  as  prime  minister, 
xxviii,  178,  200 

Carthaginians:  conquest  by,  5 

Carvalho,  Otelo  Saraivade,  172,  232;  ar- 
rested, 234,  267;  convicted,  270 

Carvalho  Melo,  Sebastiao  Jose  de,  39 

Castelo  Branco,  74 

Castile,  4 

Catalan  people:  rebellion  by,  36 

Catholic  Church,  Roman:  disestablish- 
ment of,  51,  99;  elite  class  in,  99;  im- 
pact of  revolution  on,  98-99;  influence 
of,  xxxiv-xxxv,  99,  204;  land  owned 
by,  16,  17,  85,  97;  middle  class  in,  206; 
official  separation  of,  from  state,  96, 
98-99;  political  role  of,  203-4;  power 
of,  97;  principles  of,  98;  relations  with, 
97;  role  of,  96-103,  108;  under  Sala- 
zar,  55,  58,  98;  schools  controlled  by, 
98,  103;  social  welfare  under,  208 

Catholicism,  Roman:  decline  of,  99;  hu- 
manization  of,  102;  introduction  of,  96; 
saints  in,  100 

Catholic  University,  107 

Cavaco  Silva,  Anfbal,  xxix,  xxxi,  208, 


239;  characteristics  of,  208;  economy 
under,  161;  goals  of,  208;  popularity  of, 
209-10;  as  prime  minister,  168,  179, 
180,  186,  200;  support  for,  208,  210 

CCP.  See  Portuguese  Confederation  of 
Commerce 

CDS.  See  Party  of  the  Social  Democratic 
Center 

Celebes:  exploration  of,  32 

Celtic  peoples,  5 

censorship:  abolished,  171,  211;  under 

Salazar,  169,  210-11 
census  of  1864,  73 

Central  Bloc  (Bloco  Central),  179,  200 

Centralcer.  See  Central  de  Cervejas 

Central  de  Cervejas  (Centralcer),  126 

Cerejeira,  Manuel  Goncalves,  98 

Ceuta,  24,  26 

Ceylon:  Jesuits  in,  33 

CGTP-IN.      General  Confederation  of 

Portuguese  Workers-National  Inter- 

sindical 

Chamber  of  Deputies,  44,  45,  47 

Chamber  of  Peers,  45 

Chamber  of  Senators,  47 

Champalimaud,  126 

Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  154 

Chaves  Rosa,  Jose,  125 

children:  government  subsidies  for,  109; 
illegitimacy  of,  80,  82;  school  atten- 
dance of,  xxxiv,  108 

China:  factories  in,  32;  Jesuits  in,  33; 
Macau  under,  195;  materiel  from,  for 
African  insurgents,  232;  military  train- 
ing by,  of  African  insurgents,  229; 
trade  with,  31 

Christianity  {see  also  under  individual  denomi- 
nations): conversion  to,  6 

Christians:  Reconquest  by,  8-9,  10,  12, 
13 

Christians,  New.  See  Marranos 
chromium,  59 

churches:  built  in  Brazil,  33;  village,  100 
Church  of  England,  102 
Cimentos  de  Portugal  (Cimpor),  126 
Cimpor.  See  Cimentos  de  Portugal 
CIP.  See  Confederation  of  Portuguese  In- 
dustry 

citanias  (Roman  towns),  6 
Citicorp,  154 

civil  liberties:  restrictions  on,  268 
civil  service  (see  also  bureaucracy),  191-92; 
employment  in,  150,  192;  middle  class 


308 


Index 


in,  206;  modernization  of,  192;  profes- 
sionalization  of,  51;  professors  as  em- 
ployees of,  107;  proliferation  of  jobs  in, 
122,  192;  reform  of,  192;  selection  for 
employment  in,  192 
civil  war,  53 

clergy:  categories  of,  15;  disputes  of,  with 
nobility,  16;  in  early  history,  15;  land 
owned  by,  16;  privileges  of,  15 

climate,  4,  69;  rainfall,  4 

CNP.  See  Companhia  Nacional  de  Petro- 
qufmica 

coal,  149 

coastline,  66 

Cochin,  31;  Jesuits  in,  33 

Code  of  Military  Justice,  250 

Coimbra,  10,  13;  French  sack  of,  42; 
population  of,  74 

collectivization,  xxvii,  91,  143,  174 

Colonial  Act  of  1930,  59-60 

colonies  {see  also  under  individual  colonies): 
Asian,  32;  development  in,  58;  estab- 
lishment of,  67;  as  factor  in  economy, 
xxiv,  119;  granted  independence,  xxvii, 
124,  172,  213;  investment  in,  121;  poli- 
cies in,  226-27;  relations  with,  214;  self- 
supporting,  59-60 

colonies,  African,  25-26,  48-49,  265;  de- 
termination to  retain,  xxv;  emigration 
to,  78;  immigrants  from,  95-96;  in- 
dependence gained  by,  xxvii,  78,  213; 
independence  struggle  in,  119;  Por- 
tuguese living  in,  78;  returnees  from, 
xxviii,  95 

commerce,  150-52;  employment  in,  150; 
middle  class  in,  206;  retail,  150 

Commission  for  Equality  and  Women's 
Rights  {see  also  Commission  on  the  Sta- 
tus of  Women),  xxxv,  83 

Commission  on  the  Status  of  Women  {see 
also  Commission  for  Equality  and 
Women's  Rights),  83 

Commission  to  Control  Data,  266 

Common  Agricultural  Policy  (CAP),  115, 
144 

commoners:  categories  of,  16;  in  early  his- 
tory, 16 

Common  External  Tariff,  115 

communications,  152 

Companhia  de  Seguros  de  Creditos 
(Cosec),  155 

Companhia  de  Seguros  Tranquilidade, 
155 


Companhia  Nacional  de  Petroqufmica 
(CNP),  147 

Companhia  Uniao  Fabril  (CUF):  nation- 
alized, 125 

concelhos.  See  settler  communities 

Concordat  of  1940,  83,  98 

Confederagao  de  Industria  Portuguesa 
(CIP).  See  Confederation  of  Portuguese 
Industry 

Confederagao  do  Comercio  Portugues 
(CCP).  See  Portuguese  Confederation 
of  Commerce 

Confederacao  Geral  dos  Trabalhadores 
Portugueses-Intersindical  Nacional 
(CGTP-IN).  See  General  Confedera- 
tion of  Portuguese  Workers-National 
Intersindical 

Confederation  of  Portuguese  Industry 
(CIP),  206 

Conference  of  Samora,  10 

Congo,  227 

Congregationalists,  102 

Congress  of  the  Republic,  51 

Constituent  Assembly,  xxvii,  47,  181; 
elections  for,  168,  174,  233 

Constitutional  Charter,  45;  nullified,  46 

Constitutional  Court,  xxviii-xxix,  190, 
208;  appointments  to,  188;  created,  183 

constitution  of  1822,  44;  reestablished,  46 

constitution  of  1838,  47 

constitution  of  1933,  56 

constitution  of  1976,  xxvii,  181;  amend- 
ments to,  xxviii,  168,  178-79,  182-83, 
208;  armed  forces  under,  182,  224, 
234-36;  cabinet  under,  186;  church  un- 
der, 98-99;  civil  rights  under,  268;  civil 
service  under,  191;  controversy  over, 
182;  drafting  committee  for,  168;  econ- 
omy under,  128;  education  under,  105; 
equal  rights  for  women  under,  82;  ex- 
ecutive under,  182;  judiciary  under, 
190-91;  parliament  under,  182;  police 
under,  262;  president  under,  xxvii, 
182,  183-85;  prime  minister  under, 
185-86;  promulgated,  176,  181;  sepa- 
ration of  church  and  state  in,  96,  98-99; 
women  under,  82,  83 

construction,  147;  growth  of,  120;  of 
housing,  110;  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  120,  121;  to  support 
tourism,  150 

consumer  groups,  129 

consumption,  121;  growth  of,  122 


309 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Continental  Operations  Command 
(COPCON),  xxvi,  233;  dissolved, 
xxvii,  176,  234;  formed,  172 

Convention  of  Sintra  (1808),  42 

COPCON.  See  Continental  Operations 
Command 

copper,  59,  145,  149 

Cordoba,  Caliphate  of,  8 

cork,  70,  140,  141,  142 

Corporative  Chamber,  56 

Correio  da  Manha,  211 

corruption:  in  government,  xxv,  169 

cortes,  22;  of  1211  (Coimbra),  13;  of  1254 
(Leiria),  13;  of  1385  (Seville),  20;  of 
1433  (Evora),  22;  of  1481  (Evora),  23; 
of  1641,  37;  of  1828,  45 

Cosec.  See  Companhia  de  Seguros  de 
Creditos 

Costa,  Afonso,  52 

Costa,  Alfred  Nobre  da,  177 

Costa  Cabral,  Antonio  Bernardo  da,  47; 
exiled,  48 

Costa  Gomes,  Francisco  de,  173,  232 

Council  of  Europe,  215 

Council  of  Ministers,  156,  186-87;  duties 
of,  186;  members  of,  186;  specialized 
councils,  187 

Council  of  Social  Communication,  268 

Council  of  State,  170,  172,  183,  185 

Council  of  the  Revolution,  xxvii,  203, 
224;  eliminated,  xxviii,  183,  203,  234, 
236;  formed,  173,  233;  Goncalves  ex- 
pelled from,  175;  members  of,  234-36; 
military  control  of,  182 

Council  to  Oversee  the  Intelligence  Ser- 
vices, 266 

Counter-Reformation,  32-34 

coup  d'etat,  attempted,  of  1927,  230;  of 
1961,  230;  of  1975,  xxvii,  124,  168, 
172-73,  176,  233,  234 

coup  d'etat  of  1841,  47 

coup  d'etat  of  1907,  50 

coup  d'etat  of  1910,  225,  229-30 

coup  d'etat  of  1917,  53 

coup  d'etat  of  1926,  xxv,  54,  117,  169, 
203,  230 

coup  d'etat  of  1974.  See  Revolution  of 
1974 

Court  of  Audit,  190 

courts:  of  first  instance,  190;  inefficiency 
of,  191;  military,  190;  of  second  in- 
stance, 190;  special,  190 

court  system,  190-91;  ombudsman  for, 


190-91 

Covilha,  146 

Covilha,  Pero  da,  28 

CP.  See  Caminhos  de  Ferro  Portugueses 

crime:  drug-related,  271;  incidence  of, 
270-71;  types  of,  271 

criminal  justice  system  {see  also  judiciary; 
see  also  under  courts),  268-70;  appeals  in, 
268-69;  attorneys  in,  269;  control  of, 
268;  ombudsman  for,  269-70;  organi- 
zation of,  268;  preventive  detention  in, 
269;  supervision  in,  269;  trials  in,  269 

crusades:  of  1415,  24;  of  1578,  34-35,  224 

CUF.  See  Companhia  Uniao  Fabril 

cult  of  the  hidden  prince,  35 

Cunha,  Tristao  da,  31 

Cunhal,  Alvaro,  xxvi,  199;  return  from 
exile,  171-72 

currency:  in  European  Monetary  System, 
xxiii 

current  account,  121,  158;  basic  balance 
of,  159;  public  debt  as  percentage  of, 
162 

current  expenditures,  131 


da  Palma  Carlos,  Adelino,  172 

de  Arriaga,  Manuel,  52 

death,  causes  of,  109-10 

debt,  public,  58,  132-33,  162-63;  amount 
of,  162;  interest  payments  on,  131,  162; 
as  percentage  of  gross  domestic 
product,  131;  ratio  of,  to  gross  domes- 
tic product,  132,  162;  ratio  of,  to 
reserves,  162-63;  trend  in,  162-63 

debt  servicing:  as  percentage  of  current 
account,  162;  reduction  of,  162 

Decree  Law  353-73,  231-32;  reaction  to, 
231-32 

Defense  Agreement  of  1951,  226 

defense  industry,  domestic,  126,  244, 
260-61;  production  capabilities,  260; 
restrictions  on,  261;  sales  by,  260,  261 

defense  posture:  strategic  concepts  of, 
237-39;  transitional  stage  of,  238 

defense  spending,  256-57;  increases  in, 
256;  as  percentage  of  gross  national 
product,  256;  on  personnel,  256-57 

Defense  Strategic  Intelligence  Service 
(SIED),  265,  266 

Delgado,  Humberto,  56,  230;  assassinat- 
ed, 230 


310 


Index 


democracy:  consolidated,  176-80;  estab- 
lished, xxiv;  rescinded,  xxv,  54-56; 
transition  to,  xxvi-xxix,  169,  174-76, 
180-81 

Democratic  Alliance  (AD),  xxviii;  dis- 
solved, 189;  in  elections  of  1980,  178; 
formed,  178,  200 

Democratic  Party  (PD),  52,  172 

demography,  70-79 

demonstrations.  See  political  demon- 
strations 

development:  of  Brazil,  38-39;  economic, 

34,  65;  in  medieval  period,  18-19 
DGS.  See  General  Security  Directorate 
d'Hondt  method,  195,  196,  197 
diamonds,  38 
Didrio  de  Noticias,  211 
Dias,  Bartolomeu,  26,  28 
Dias,  Dinis,  25 

Dinis  (king)  ("the  Farmer"):  agricultural 
development  under,  18;  land  disputes 
resolved  by,  17;  maritime  activities  of, 
24 

Direccao  Geral  de  Seguranca  (DGS).  See 
General  Security  Directorate 

divorce,  xxxiv,  80,  98,  99 

Dominicans:  monasteries  of,  12;  regional 
administration  by,  15 

drug-related  crime,  271 

Duarte,  21,  22;  crusades  under,  26 

Eanes,  Antonio  dos  Santos  Ramalho:  as 
president,  xxvii-xxviii,  xxix,  168,  176, 
234;  qualities  of,  184-85;  state  of  emer- 
gency declared  by,  176;  supporters  of, 
202 

Eanes,  Gil,  25 
earthquake  of  1755,  39 
EC.  See  European  Community 
Economic  and  Social  Program  (1974), 
124 

economic  development  plans:  first,  119; 

second,  119 
economic  disequilibrium,  132-33 
economic  growth,  122-23;  impediments 

to,  128 

economic  policy:  of  Caetano,  61;  mercan- 
tilist, 59;  of  Pedro  II,  37;  of  Pombal, 
40;  of  Salazar,  58-59 
Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  147 
economy:  backwardness  of,  xxiv;  charac- 
teristics of,  115-17;  under  constitution 


of  1976,  128;  effect  of  European  Com- 
munity membership  on,  133,  215;  im- 
pact of  isolation  on,  xxiv;  importance 
of  colonies  to,  xxiv;  in  1980s,  xxiii, 
xxxii;    problems   in,   xxix,  116-17, 
122-33,  139-40,  147,  153;  under  Sala- 
zar, xxv,  58-60,  117-20 
EDP.  See  Electricidade  de  Portugal 
education  (see  also  schools),  103-8;  at- 
tempts to  improve,  xxxiv;  under  con- 
stitution of  1976,  105;  disrupted  by 
Revolution  of  1974,  104-5;  elitism  in, 
104;    government   control   of,  107; 
government    responsibility   for,  97; 
Jesuit  control  over,  97,  104;  prepara- 
tory, 105;  preschool,  105;  pressures  for, 
66;  primary,  105;  problems  in,  xxxiv, 
107-8;  public,  40,  104;  reforms  in,  104; 
role  of  church  in,  96,  97;  under  Sala- 
zar, 58;  secondary,  105;  under  Second 
Republic,  xxx;  vocational,  105-7;  of 
women,  83 
Edward  II:  maritime  trade  with,  18 
EEC .  See  European  Economic  Community 
EEZ.  See  Exclusive  Economic  Zone 
EFTA.  See  European  Free  Trade  As- 
sociation 
Egypt:  sea  battle  with,  31 
elections:  in  First  Republic,  52;  of  1969, 

61;  in  Second  Republic,  168 
elections,  local,  196,  199 
elections,  parliamentary,  196;  of  1976, 
xxviii,  176,  201;  of  1979,  178;  of  1980, 
178;  of  1983,  xxix,  179;  of  1985,  179, 
199;  of  1987,  xxx,  180,  199,  200,  201, 
207-8;  of  1991,  200,  201,  209-10 
elections,  presidential,  196,  209 
elections  for  Constituent  Assembly:  of 
1820,  44;  of  1911,  51;  of  1975,  168, 
174,  198 
electoral  system,  195-96 
Electricidade  de  Portugal  (EDP),  126,  149 
electricity,  gas,  and  water  sector:  growth 
in,  145;  as  percentage  of  gross  domes- 
tic product,  120 
elite  class,  xxiv,  88-90;  economic  power 
of,  118;  education  of,  107;  families,  80; 
impact  of  1974  revolution  on,  xxiii, 
204;  inheritances  in,  99;  kinship  net- 
works of,  84;  liberalism  among,  43; 
members  of,  88-89;  political  role  of, 
204;  professions  of,  99;  under  Salazar, 
55 


311 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


emigrants,  remittances  from,  77,  115-16, 
121,  158,  159-60 

emigration,  73-74,  75-79;  destinations 
for,  77-78;  motives  for,  xxxiv,  73,  75, 
77,  122,  134,  141,  216,  231;  of  profes- 
sionals, 116;  rate  of,  70,  75,  136;  by 
sex,  76;  social  impact  of,  76-77,  136, 
170 

empire,  224;  in  Asia,  31-32,  36,  225; 
decline  of,  34-43,  212,  225 

employment:  abroad,  xxxiv,  73,  79,  95, 
134;  in  agriculture,  xxxii,  134;  in  com- 
merce, 150;  decline  in,  122;  distribu- 
tion, 134-37;  emigration  for,  xxxiv, 
122;  in  financial  sector,  150;  in  fishing, 
134;  in  forestry,  134;  in  government, 
150;  in  industry,  117,  134;  pressures 
for,  66;  in  public  sector,  117;  in  service 
sector,  134-36;  in  tourism,  150;  in 
transportation,  150 

energy  resources,  148-49 

English  language,  216 

Enlightenment:  impact  of,  xxiv,  40-41, 
104 

ERP.  See  European  Recovery  Program 
Escudo  Area,  119;  dismantled,  124;  trade 

with,  158 
Espiritu  Santo  family,  155 
Espiritu  Santo  Sociedade  de  Investimen- 

to,  155 

Estado  Novo.  See  New  State 
Estaleiros  Navais  de  Setubal  (Setenave), 

130,  147 
Estremadura  province,  67,  69 
ethnic  groups  (see  also  under  individual 

groups),  94-96;  homogeneity  of,  94; 

regional  differences  in,  94 
ethnicity,  94-96 

Europe:  reaction  of,  to  Revolution  of 
1974,  167,  175;  relations  with,  214-16 

European  Community  (EC):  and  agricul- 
ture, 144;  aid  from,  xxx,  xxxii,  147, 
156,  159,  160,  180,  215;  effect  of,  on 
economy,  133,  156,  215;  effect  of,  on 
government,  215;  effect  of,  on  society, 
215;  free  trade  agreement  with,  120; 
membership  in,  xxiii,  xxix-xxx,  115, 
139,  145,  156,  168,  213,  257;  presiden- 
cy of,  xxiii;  requirements  of,  115;  secu- 
rity responsibilities  of,  239 

European  Economic  Community  (EEC): 
membership  in,  115,  215 

European    Free    Trade  Association 


(EFTA):  assistance  from,  160;  mem- 
bership in,  115,  119,  155,  167,  215 

European  Monetary  System:  Portuguese 
currency  in,  xxiii 

European  Recovery  Program  (ERP) 
(Marshall  Plan),  217 

European  Social  Fund:  aid  from,  139,  160 

evangelization,  32-34 

Evolutionists.  See  Republican  Evolutionist 
Party 

Evora,  74;  expropriations  of  land  in,  143; 

rebellion  at,  36 
Exclusive  Economic  Zone  (EEZ),  245 
exploration,  xxiv,  26,  67,  244;  of  Africa, 

25-26,  48-49;  of  Angola,  48;  of  Asia, 

32;  of  Brazil,  32,  38;  of  Mozambique, 

49 

exports:  of  arms,  260,  261;  of  commodi- 
ties, 116,  156;  of  crops,  141,  142,  156; 
increase  in,  156;  in  manufactured 
goods,  157;  of  minerals,  149;  as  percen- 
tage of  gross  domestic  product,  155; 
products,  121 

Expresso,  178,  200,  211 

external  credits,  119 


factionalism:  in  armed  forces,  xxvii,  233; 
in  political  parties,  xxx-xxi,  50 

families,  79-82;  children  in,  80;  elite,  80; 
equality  in,  80;  extended,  84-85;  god- 
parents in,  84;  middle-class,  80;  organi- 
zation of,  80;  relations  within,  82; 
women  in,  80 

family  planning,  82 

Farmer,  the.  See  Dinis  (king) 

farmers:  in  the  Alentejo,  91;  living  stan- 
dards of,  143;  in  the  north,  91;  public 
assistance  to,  144;  refusal  of,  to  collec- 
tivize, 174;  tenant,  85 

farms:  collective,  143,  174 

Faro,  73,  74 

Fatima,  53,  57,  100 

Federal  Republic  of  Germany.  See  Ger- 
many, Federal  Republic  of 

Felipe  I,  35 

Fernando,  21 

Fernando,  duke  of  Braganca,  23 
Fernando  I:  development  under,  19;  mar- 
itime activities  of,  24 
Fidelidade,  155 
film  industry,  212 

financial  sector  (see  also  banking),  xxxiii, 


312 


Index 


153-55;  changes  in,  153;  employment 
in,  150;  government  role  in,  155 

financial  strategy,  118-19 

First  Composite  Brigade,  223,  241-42, 
257-58;  improvements  in,  243; 
materiel  of,  244;  organization  of,  243; 
problems  in,  243;  support  for,  248 

Fiscal  Guard  (Guarda  Fiscal),  264 

fishing,  40,  67,  142-43;  amount  of,  143; 
commercial,  142;  growth  of,  120;  labor 
force  in,  134,  137,  139;  liberalization 
of,  153;  as  percentage  of  gross  domes- 
tic product,  120,  122,  139;  in  Portimao, 
146 

FNLA.  See  National  Front  for  the  Liber- 
ation of  Angola 

Forcas  Populares  do  25  Abril.  See  Popu- 
lar Forces  of  the  25th  of  April 

Ford- Volkswagen  automotive  complex, 
161 

foreign  assistance:  from  European  Com- 
munity, xxx,  xxxii,  139;  as  percentage 
of  gross  domestic  product,  139 

foreign  community,  95 

foreign  economic  relations,  155-63 

foreign  exchange:  income,  116,  160;  re- 
ceipts from  tourism,  150 

foreign  income:  from  emigrant  remit- 
tances, 77,  115-16,  121,  158,  159-60; 
from  tourism,  115 

foreign  investment,  xxxii,  58,  160-61;  at- 
tempts to  limit,  161-62;  from  Britain, 
160-61;  in  colonies,  60;  in  commerce, 
150;  conditions  for,  161;  in  economic 
development  plans,  119;  in  financial 
sector,  161;  impact  of  Revolution  of 
1974  on,  125;  increase  in,  160;  in  in- 
dustry, 146;  in  manufacturing,  161;  in 
service  sector,  161;  in  tourism,  161; 
trends  in,  160-61 

foreign  relations,  212-18;  history  of, 
212-13 

forestry,  142;  exports  by,  156;  growth  of, 
120;  labor  force  in,  134,  137,  139;  as 
percentage  of  gross  domestic  product, 
120,  122,  139;  products,  70,  140,  142, 
145 

forests,  70;  amount  of,  140,  142 
FP-25.  See  Popular  Forces  of  the  25th  of 
April 

France:  British  blockade  of,  41;  emigra- 
tion to,  134,  216;  influence  of,  on  le- 
gal system,  191;  invasions  by,  42-43; 


materiel  from,  245,  246-48,  260;  occu- 
pation by,  42;  Portuguese  guestworkers 
in,  79,  136,  160;  relations  with,  216; 
trade  with,  157;  war  of,  with  Spain,  41 

Franciscans:  monasteries  of,  12;  region- 
al administration  by,  15 

Franco,  Joao:  dictatorship  of,  50 

Franco,  Francisco,  59,  226 

Freemasons,  43 

Free  University,  107 

Freire  de  Andrade,  Gomes,  43 

Freitas,  Jose  Vicente  de,  54 

Frelimo.  See  Front  for  the  Liberation  of 
Mozambique 

French  language,  216 

French  Revolution:  reaction  to,  41 

Frente  de  Libertacao  de  Mozambique 
(Frelimo).  See  Front  for  the  Liberation 
of  Mozambique 

Frente  Nacional  de  Libertacao  de  Ango- 
la (FNLA).  See  National  Front  for  the 
Liberation  of  Angola 

Front  for  the  Liberation  of  Mozambique 
(Frelimo),  214,  229 

Galicia,  4 

Gama,  Vasco  da,  28 
gas,  natural,  149 

GATT.  See  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs 

and  Trade 
GDP.  See  gross  domestic  product 
General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade 

(GATT):  membership  in,  119 
General  Anti-Crime  Directorate,  263 
General  Confederation  of  Portuguese 

Workers-National  Intersindical  (CGTP- 

IN),  xxvi,  125,  138,  175,  198,  205; 

growth  of,  205;  opposition  to,  205 
Generale  de  Banque,  154 
General  Security  Directorate  (DGS),  265 
General  Union  of  Workers  (UGT),  205; 

organized,  138 
geographic  regions,  67 
geography,  4,  66-70 
Germanic  invasions  {see  also  under  individual 

tribes),  6-7 
Germany,  Federal  Republic  of  (West 

Germany),  199;  emigration  to,  134; 

materiel  from,  224,  245,  246-48,  260, 

263;  Portuguese  guestworkers  in,  79, 

136;  trade  with,  157 
Gini  ratio,  137 


313 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


glassmaking,  40 

GNP.  See  gross  national  product 
GNR.  See  National  Republican  Guard 
Goa:  immigrants  from,  95;  Indian  recap- 
ture of,  59,  231;  occupation  of,  31 
gold,  38 
Gold  Coast,  26 
Gomes,  Fernao,  26 
Gomes  da  Costa,  Manuel,  54 
Goncalves,  Vasco,  172,  173-74;  expelled 
from  Council  of  the  Revolution,  175 
government:  church  under,  51,  95,  98- 
99;  education  under,  97;  effect  of 
European   Community  membership 
on,  133,  215;  income-leveling  policies, 
138;  as  percentage  of  gross  domestic 
product,  174;  revenue,  130;  role  of, 
in  financial  system,  155;  system  of, 
189-95 

government,  local,  192-94;  administra- 
tive regions  in,  193;  administrative  sys- 
tem in,  192;  districts  in,  193;  governor 
of,  193;  municipal  assembly,  193-94; 
municipalities  in,  193-94;  parishes  in, 
193 

government,  provisional:  of  1911,  51;  of 
1970s,  xxvii,  xxviii,  168,  172,  173,  178 

government  deficit,  128,  130-31;  effect  of, 
132-33;  financing  structure  of,  132;  as 
percentage  of  gross  domestic  product, 
133 

government  spending,  128,  130-32;  pat- 
terns of,  131;  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  130 

governor  of  district,  193 

Great  Depression,  118 

Greeks:  conquest  by,  5 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP):  composi- 
tion of,  120,  122;  growth  of,  115,  117, 
120,  122,  145;  per  capita,  115,  123;  ra- 
tio of  debt  to,  132,  162;  ratio  of  interest 
to,  162 

gross  domestic  product  percentages: 
agriculture,  120,  122;  borrowing,  128; 
budget  deficit,  133;  construction,  120; 
energy,  120;  exports,  155;  fishing,  120, 
122,  139;  foreign  assistance,  139;  for- 
estry, 120,  122,  139;  government  ser- 
vices, 174;  imports,  156;  industry,  120, 
122;  manufacturing,  120,  122;  mining, 
120;  privatization  proceeds,  133;  pub- 
lic debt,  131,  162;  public  enterprises, 
129;  service  sector,  115,  121,  122,  150; 


tourism,  122,  150 
gross  national  product  (GNP):  defense 

spending  as  percentage  of,  256 
Group  of  Nine,  175 
Guarda  (district),  73,  74 
Guarda  Fiscal.  See  Fiscal  Guard 
Guarda  Nacional  Republicana  (GNR). 

See  National  Republican  Guard 
Guinea,  Portuguese,  49;  armed  resistance 

by,  60,  170,  228-29;  made  a  province, 

60;  Portuguese  deaths  in,  229 
Guinea-Bissau:  independence  for,  172, 

213,  229 
Gypsies,  95 

health  care,  109-10;  government  pay- 
ments for,  109;  role  of  church  in,  96 

health  care  professionals:  distribution  of, 
110;  number  of,  110 

health  care  system,  110 

health  facilities,  110 

health  problems,  xxxiv;  causes  of  death, 
109-10;  malnutrition,  110 

Henrique  (cardinal),  35 

Henrique  (prince)  ("the  Navigator"),  18, 
21,  244;  death  of,  25;  as  master  of  Or- 
der of  Christ,  24;  naval  school  found- 
ed by,  24 

Henry  (of  Burgundy),  9 

Henry  the  Navigator.  See  Henrique 
(prince) 

Higher  Council  of  National  Defense: 
formed,  183;  members  of,  239;  powers 
of,  236 

Higher  Council  of  the  Bench,  188,  190; 

appointments  to,  188 
Higher  Military  Institute,  250 
Historia  Genealogica  da  Casa  Real  (Sousa),  39 
Historicals  {see  also  Progressives;  Septem- 
berists),  48;  conflict  of,  with  Regener- 
ators, 50 

Holy  See:  land  claimed  by,  16,  17;  rela- 
tions with,  40,  41 

housing,  110-11;  construction,  110;  of 
elite,  111;  government  responsibility 
for,  111;  lack  of,  110-11;  pressures  for, 
66 


Iberian  Atlantic  Command  (IBER- 
LANT),  59,  245,  246,  258;  area  con- 
trolled by,  258;  commander  of,  258; 


314 


Index 


headquarters  of,  258 

Iberian  Pact  (1939),  59,  223,  226,  241 

Iberian  Peninsula:  climate  of,  4;  geogra- 
phy of,  4 

Iberian  Union,  35-37,  215 

IBERLANT.  See  Iberian  Atlantic 
Command 

Ibero  people,  5 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 
immigrants  (see  also  returnees  from  Afri- 
ca): assimilation  of,  95;  from  colonies, 
95 

imports:  in  manufactured  goods,  157;  of 
oil,  148,  157;  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  156 

income:  from  emigrant  remittances,  77, 
115-16,  121,  158,  159-60;  from  invisi- 
bles, 121;  from  tourism,  121 

income  distribution,  121,  122,  127,  129, 
134,  137-39;  functional  approach  to, 
138;  size  of,  137-38 

INDEP.  See  Industrias  Nacionais  de  Defe- 
sa  E.P. 

Independente,  211 

India:  commercial  activity  of,  in  Asia,  36; 
commercial  hegemony  in,  31;  first 
voyage  to,  28;  Jesuits  in,  33;  sea  route 
to,  26-31;  second  voyage  to,  28-31 

industrial  dynasties,  1 18;  licensing,  118, 
119,  120;  organization,  146-48;  pro- 
duction, 122;  regions,  147 

Industrias  Nacionais  de  Defesa  E.P.  (IN- 
DEP), 261 

industry,  xxxii-xxxiii,  145-49;  decline  of, 
34;  foreign  ownership  in,  xxxii,  146, 
147;  growth  in,  120,  145;  mergers  in, 
125-26;  middle  class  in,  206;  nation- 
alization of,  124,  125;  as  percentage  of 
gross  domestic  product,  120,  122;  pri- 
vate ownership  in,  xxxii-xxxiii,  146, 
209;  productivity  in,  146-47;  under 
Roman  occupation,  6;  state  ownership 
in,  xxxii,  146,  147,  147-48;  work  force 
in,  86,  117,  134,  136 

infant  mortality,  xxxiv,  109 

inflation,  117;  under  Caetano,  61;  in 
1970s,  176;  in  1980s,  xxix;  rate  of,  122 

infrastructure:  development  of,  6,  147; 
military,  37;  projects  financed,  118, 
147;  under  Roman  occupation,  6 

inland  waterways,  152 

Inquisition,  33,  35;  abolished,  44,  97; 
deaths  in,  33;  established,  97;  expul- 


sions by,  102;  schools  under,  103-4 
Institute  for  Higher  Military  Studies,  243 
Institute  for  State  Participation,  127,  129; 

created,  125 
Institute  of  Applied  Psychology,  107 
insurance  services:  competition  among, 
126;  foreign  investment  in,  161;  nation- 
alized, 125,  127,  153;  privatized,  153 
intellectuals,  55;  political  activities  of,  198; 

political  role  of,  206-7 
intelligence  services,  264-66;  powers  of, 
264-65 

Intelligence  System  of  the  Republic  of 

Portugal  (SIRP),  265,  266 
internal  security,  261-67;  as  mission  of 

armed  forces,  261;  reorganization  of, 

261 

International  Labour  Organisation,  137 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF): 
austerity  program  of,  177;  membership 
in,  119;  stabilization  program  of,  128, 
156 

International  Police  for  the  Defense  of  the 

State  (PIDE),  264-65 
Intervention  Police,  263 
investment,  131,  158;  coefficients,  122- 

23;  in  colonies,  121;  constraints  on, 

117;  institutions,  154;  productivity, 

123 
Isabel,  22 
Islam.  See  Muslims 

isolation,  66;  impact  of,  on  economy, 

xxiv;  under  Salazar,  86 
Ivens,  Roberto,  48 


Japan:  investment  from,  161;  Jesuits  in, 
33;  Pacific  islands  occupied  by,  59;  re- 
lations with,  32 

Java:  exploration  of,  32 

Jehovah's  Witnesses,  102 

Jesuits,  35;  activities  of,  33;  education 
controlled  by,  97,  104;  expelled,  40,  97; 
founded,  33 

Jews:  expelled,  97;  number  of,  103;  perse- 
cution of,  33,  34,  103;  population  of, 
95;  role  of,  8 

Joao.  See  Joao  I 

Joao,  duke  of  Braganca  (see  also  Joao  IV): 

proclaimed  king,  36 
Joao  I,  19-22;  maritime  activities  of,  24; 

nobility  under,  21 
Joao  II:  crowned,  23;  nobility  under,  23 


315 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Joao  III,  26;  death  of,  34;  expeditions  of, 

32;  Inquisition  established  by,  97 
Joao  IV,  37;  crowned,  36 
Joao  V,  39 

Joao  VI,  41;  accession  of,  43;  return  to 

Portugal,  44 
Joao  Afonso,  20 
Joao  das  Regras,  20 
John  of  Gaunt,  21 

Jose  I,  39;  attempted  assassination  of,  40 

joust  of  Arcos  de  Valdevez,  10 

Juan  I,  19 

judges,  190,  191 

Judicial  Police,  264,  268 

judicial  regions,  268 

judiciary,  190-91,  267-72 

Junot,  Andoche,  42 

Junta  of  National  Salvation,  172,  232-33; 

abolished,  173;  friction  of,  with  Armed 

Forces  Movement,  233 


kinship  relations,  79,  84-85;  economic, 
84,  196-97;  godparents  in,  84;  politi- 
cal, 84 

Kissinger,  Henry,  175 

Korea,  Republic  of  (South  Korea):  invest- 
ment from,  161 


labor  force:  agricultural,  143;  composition 
of,  134-37;  dismissal  procedures,  139; 
distribution  of,  134-37,  139;  growth  of, 
137;  industrial,  86,  117;  percentage  of, 
in  unions,  138,  205;  in  service  sector, 
150;  size  of,  136 

labor  laws,  xxix;  attempts  to  reform, 
xxxiii;  reforms,  139,  208 

labor  productivity,  122,  141 

labor  unions:  agenda  of,  138;  government 
control  of,  86;  growth  in,  65;  leaders 
of,  exiled,  205;  membership  of,  205; 
origins  of,  204-5;  outlawed,  xxv,  205; 
percentage  of  labor  force  in,  138,  205; 
political  role  of,  xxvi,  204-5;  special- 
ized, 205;  strength  of,  138,  205 

Lajes  Air  Base,  216-17,  223,  226,  238, 
248,  259 

land:  arable,  140;  area,  66,  140;  expropri- 
ations of,  143,  207;  holdings,  143;  pres- 
sures for,  66;  privatization  of,  209 


land  distribution,  12 

landowners,  85,  88;  abuses  of,  17,  143; 

confirmation  of,  16-17,  85 
land  tenure,  6,  116,  143-44 
latifundidrios .  See  landowners 
Lavrador,  O.  See  Dinis  (king) 
Law  of  the  Sesmarias  (1375),  19,  25 
legal    system:    influences   on,  191; 

medieval,  18 
Leixoes,  port  of,  152 
Leonor  of  Aragon,  22,  108 
liberalism,  43 
life  expectancy,  109 
Ligure  people,  5 

Lisbon:  captured  by  Afonso  Henriques, 
10;  earthquake  in,  39;  economic  activi- 
ty in,  67;  immigrants  to,  74;  industry 
in,  146;  population  of,  74;  population 
density  in,  73;  rebuilt,  39-40;  religious 
practice  in,  99;  suburbanization  of,  74 

Lisbon  Stock  Exchange,  153 

literacy  rate,  65,  212;  in  First  Republic, 
117;  improvement  in,  xxxiii-xxxiv, 
105;  in  nineteenth  century,  104;  in 
1990s,  xxxiii,  107,  212 

livestock,  142 

living  standards,  xxxiv;  of  farmers,  143; 

improvement  in,  xxxiv,  94;  of  working 

class,  94 
Louis  XIII:  alliance  with,  37 
lower  class,  91-92;  kinship  networks  in, 

84-85 

Loyola,  Ignatius  de,  33 
Luisa  de  Gusmao,  37 
Lundberg,  Erik,  124 
Lusitania,  4 
Lusitanian  people,  5 
Luso-American  Development  Founda- 
tion, 217 
Luso-Iberian  Council,  216 

Macau:  Chinese  rule  of,  195;  immigrants 
from,  95;  occupation  of,  32,  59;  popu- 
lation of,  195 

Madagascar:  explored,  31 

Madeira  Islands,  70,  73;  autonomy  of, 
194;  colonized,  25;  discovered,  25; 
government  of,  195;  legislative  assem- 
bly in,  195;  minister  of  the  republic  in, 
194-95;  powers  of,  194,  195;  separatist 
movement  in,  262;  strategic  importance 
of,  257 


316 


Index 


magazines,  211;  censored,  210-11 
Maia,  Manuel  da,  39 
Makler,  Harry  M.,  127 
Malacca:  conquest  of,  31 
Malaga:  ancient  trading  post  at,  5 
Malaysia:  spice  trade  in,  31 
Mantua,  duchess  of,  36 
Manuel  I,  26;  accession  of,  28;  death  of, 
32 

Manuel  II,  50 

manufactured  goods:  exported,  156;  im- 
ported, 156 
Manufacturers  Hanover  Trust,  153 
manufacturing:  foreign  investment  in, 
161;  growth  in,  145;  labor  costs  of,  157; 
nationalization  of,  127;  as  percentage 
of  gross  domestic  product,  120,  121, 
122;  sales,  147 
Manutencao  Military,  260 
Maria  I:  accession  of,  41;  death  of,  43 
Maria  II  (Maria  da  Gloria),  45;  crowned, 
46 

Maria  da  Fontes  movement,  47 
Maria  da  Gloria.  See  Maria  II 
Marie-Francoise  Isabelle  of  Savoy,  37 
Marine  Corps,  246 

maritime  expansion,  3,  23-34;  factors  in, 
24 

maritime  insurance,  19 

Maritime  Police,  264 

Marranos,  103;  persecution  of,  33,  35 

marriage,  80;  arranged,  82;  equality  in, 
80;  separation  in,  80-82;  women  in,  80 

Marshall  Plan,  217 

Masons.  See  Freemasons 

Massena,  Andre,  42 

materiel:  from  France,  245,  246-48,  260; 
from  Germany,  224,  245,  246-48,  260, 
263;  obsolescence  of,  223;  from  Spain, 
245,  248;  spending  on,  257;  from  Unit- 
ed States,  223-24,  248,  259-60;  value 
of,  260 

maternal  leave,  82 

Matos,  Norton  de,  56 

Matosinhos,  142 

May  28  Movement,  54 

MDP.  See  Portuguese  Democratic  Move- 
ment 

media,  210-12;  freedom  for,  267,  268; 
government  involvement  in,  211;  un- 
der Second  Republic,  xxxiv,  211 

Megalithic  period,  4 

Mendes  Cabecadas,  Jose,  54 


Menenses,  Luis  de  (count  of  Ericeira),  37 

mergers,  125-26,  129 

Methodists,  102 

Methuen  Treaty  (1703),  38 

MFA.  See  Armed  Forces  Movement 

middle  class,  85,  90-91;  characteristics  of, 
xxiv;  economic  definition  of,  90;  emer- 
gence of,  65,  86,  170;  families,  80; 
growth  of,  94,  205;  impact  of,  on  po- 
litical system,  90;  impact  of,  on  social 
system,  206;  political  loyalties  of,  91, 
206;  political  role  of,  205-6;  in  Revo- 
lution of  1974,  206;  social  definition  of, 
90-91;  values  of,  53,  90-91 

Middle  East:  relations  with,  218 

Miguel  I,  44-45 

military  (see  also  air  force;  armed  forces; 

army;  navy):  dictatorship,  52,  54-55; 

doctrine,  238;  intelligence,  265 
Military  Academy:  enrollment  in,  243; 

students  in,  231 
military  conscripts:  exemptions  for,  252; 

number  of,  252;  recruitment  for,  252; 

reduction  of  term  for,  252-53 
Military  Disciplinary  Regulations,  250 
Military  Intelligence  Service  (SIM),  265 
military  officers,  55,  89,  241;  arrest  of, 

in  1975  coup,  xxvii;  characteristics  of, 

203;  elite  in,  231;  middle  class,  206; 

morale  of,  245,  249;  noncommissioned, 

243;  pay  of,  226;  social  pressures  on, 

226;  training  of,  243,  249;  women  as, 

253 

military  service:  alternative,  103,  252; 
conscientious  objectors  to,  252;  emigra- 
tion to  avoid,  75,  231;  length  of,  250-52 

minerals,  148-49;  export  of,  149 

Minho  province,  67,  69 

mining,  145,  149;  of  copper,  59,  145,  149; 
growth  in,  145;  of  iron,  149;  as  percent- 
age of  gross  domestic  product,  120;  of 
tungsten,  149 

Ministry  of  Defense,  260 

Ministry  of  Education  and  Culture,  107, 
192 

Ministry  of  Employment  and  Social  Secu- 
rity, 109 

Ministry  of  Health,  109,  192 

Ministry  of  Interior,  262 

Ministry  of  Internal  Administration,  262 

Ministry  of  Justice,  261,  268 

Ministry  of  Public  Instruction:  estab- 
lished, 104 


317 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


missionaries:  restrictions  on,  102-3 
monarchy:  formation  of,  9-10 
monarchy,    constitutional,    xxiv,  3-4; 

abolished,  51;  established,  44;  reaction 

to,  44;  restoration  of,  201 
monasteries,  12 
Monastery  of  Alcobaca,  12 
Monsanto  Air  Base,  246 
Monsaraz  necropolis,  4 
Monte  Real  Air  Base,  248 
Montijo  Air  Base,  258 
Mormons,  102 

Morocco:  war  in,  24,  26,  34-35,  224 
Mota  Pinto,  Carlos,  177 
mountains,  68,  69,  140 
Movement  of  Democratic  Unity  (MUD), 
56 

Movimento  das  Forcas  Armadas  (MFA). 

See  Armed  Forces  Movement 
Movimento   Democratico  Portugues 

(MDP).  See  Portuguese  Democratic 

Movement 
Movimento  de  Unidade  Democratica 

(MUD).  See  Movement  of  Democratic 

Unity 

Movimento  Popular  de  Libertacao  de  An- 
gola (MPLA).  See  Popular  Movement 
for  the  Liberation  of  Angola 

Mozambique,  49;  armed  resistance  by, 
60,  170,  229;  determination  to  retain, 
59;  development  in,  60;  exploration  of, 
49;  immigrants  from,  95,  136;  indepen- 
dence for,  124,  175,  214,  229;  made  a 
province,  60;  number  of  troops  in,  229; 
Portuguese  deaths  in,  229;  settlement 
on,  48,  75,  225 

MPLA.  See  Popular  Movement  for  the 
Liberation  of  Angola 

MUD.  See  Movement  of  Democratic 
Unity 

Musa  ibn  Nusair,  7 

Muslim  conquest,  7-8 

Muslim  influence,  8,  67 

Muslims  7-8,  10,  12,  18-19,  95,  103;  cru- 
sades against,  24,  34-35,  224;  expelled, 
96,  97,  224;  as  slaves,  16;  trade  by,  31 

Mussolini,  Benito,  59 

Napoleonic  Code,  191,  192 
National  Assembly,  56 
National  Board  of  Education,  187 
National  Defense  Institute,  243-44 


National  Defense  Law  (1982),  203,  224, 

236,  239-41 
National  Defense  Law  (1991),  236 
National  Development  Bank,  126 
National  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  An- 
gola (FNLA),  227 
National  Housing  Institute,  111 
nationalization,  xxvii,  125-27,  173,  174; 
of  agricultural  estates,  91;  of  banks, 
124,  125,  174,  211;  effects  of,  122;  of 
industries,  124,  125,  145;  of  insurance, 
125;  and  redistribution  of  income,  121; 
of  shipping,  125;  of  transportation,  125 
National  Library,  210 
National  Popular  Action  (ANP),  197 
National  Republican  Guard  (GNR),  171, 
261,  262-63;  formed,  262;  materiel  of, 
263;  mission  of,  263;  number  of  per- 
sonnel in,  263 
national  security:  cabinet  responsibility 
for,  186 

National  Union  (UN),  56,  197;  philos- 
ophy of,  56 

National  Union  for  the  Total  Indepen- 
dence of  Angola  (UNITA),  228 

NATO.  See  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Or- 
ganization 

Naval  Academy,  245 

naval  school:  of  Henrique,  24 

navy,  238,  244-46;  aid  to,  244;  bases  of, 
245;  chief  of  staff,  245;  conscripts  in, 
245,  252;  decline  of,  244;  downsizing 
of,  249-50;  exercises  of,  258;  insignia, 
256;  materiel,  224;  missions  of,  244-45; 
mutiny  of  1910,  50;  number  of  person- 
nel in,  239,  245;  ranks,  253;  reor- 
ganized, 223;  under  Spanish  Armada, 
224;  spending  on,  256,  257;  uniforms, 
256;  vessels  of,  244,  245 

necropolises,  4 

Neolithic  period,  4 

Netherlands,  225;  attempt  by,  to  take 
over  Brazil,  37;  commercial  activity  of, 
in  Asia,  36;  Portugese  guestworkers  in, 
79;  relations  with,  37 

neutrality,  59 

Neves  Corvo  copper  mine,  145,  149 

newspapers,  210-11 

New  State  (Estado  Novo),  xxv,  55- 
60;  armed  forces  under,  225-27;  bu- 
reaucracy under,  xxxiii;  censorship 
under,  169,  210-11;  church  under,  55, 
58,  98,  203;  detentions  under,  270; 


318 


Index 


economy  under,  117-20;  education  un- 
der, 58;  isolation  under,  86;  labor  un- 
ions under,  86;  middle-class  opposition 
to,  206;  plans  for,  55,  118;  political  par- 
ties under,  197;  politics  under,  57; 
repression  under,  169-70;  tenets  of,  57; 
tenor  of,  56;  transition  to,  56,  169;  vot- 
ing under,  80;  women  under,  83 

Nkomati  Accords,  214 

nobility,  85;  abuses  by,  23;  categories  of, 
15-16;  disputes  of,  with  clergy,  16;  in 
early  history,  15-16;  under  Joao  I,  21; 
killed  in  crusades,  35;  land  owned  by, 
16;  modern,  88;  origins  of,  88;  under 
Pombal,  40;  privileges  of,  15-16;  prop- 
erty disputes  of,  23;  restored,  41 

Nobrega,  Manuel  de,  33 

Noronha,  Fernao,  32 

North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NA- 
TO), 249,  257-60;  Central  Region  of, 
241;  contribution  to,  223,  237,  257;  ex- 
ercises, 258;  facilities,  258;  membership 
in,  59,  115,  167,  212-13,  215,  223,  226; 
missions  in,  257;  and  Revolution  of  1974, 
257;  Spain  as  member  of,  216,  258 

North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  Nu- 
clear Planning  Group,  257 

Nova  University,  107 

Nunes,  Antonio,  40 

October  1973  War,  259 

OECD.  See  Organisation  for  Economic 

Co-operation  and  Development 
Office  of  Techno-Legislative  Support,  187 
Oficinas  Gerais  de  Fardamento  e  Equi- 

pamento  (OGFE),  261 
Oficinas  Gerais  de  Material  Aeronauti- 

co  (OGMA),  261 
Oficinas  Gerais  de  Material  de  Engenhar- 

ia  (OGME),  261 
OGFE.  See  Oficinas  Gerais  de  Fardamen- 
to e  Equipamento 
OGMA.  See  Oficinas  Gerais  de  Material 

Aeronautico 
OGME.  See  Oficinas  Gerais  de  Material 

de  Engenharia 
oil:  exploitation  of,  60;  exploration  for, 

149-49;  imported,   148,   157;  price 

shocks,  145,  147,  170 
O  Lavrador  ("the  Farmer").  See  Dinis 
Olivares,  duke  of,  36 
Oliveira,  Julio  Domingos  de:  resignation 


of  government  of,  55 
Olivera,  Manoel  de,  212 
OPEC .  See  Organization  of  the  Petroleum 

Exporting  Countries 
O  Povoador  ("the  Populator").  See  San- 

cho  I 

Order  of  Avis  (see  also  Order  of  the 
Calatravans),  17,  18;  Henrique  as 
master  of,  21;  Joao  as  master  of,  19 

Order  of  Christ,  17-18;  Henrique  as 
master  of,  24 

Order  of  the  Calatravans  (see  also  Order 
of  Avis),  13;  nationalized,  17;  region- 
al administration  by,  15 

Order  of  the  Hospitallers,  13;  national- 
ized, 17;  regional  administration  by,  15 

Order  of  the  Knights  of  Saint  James,  13; 
nationalized,  17;  regional  administra- 
tion by,  15 

Order  of  the  Templars,  13;  regional  ad- 
ministration by,  15;  suppressed,  17 

Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation 
and  Development  (OECD),  xxxii,  215 

Organization  of  the  Petroleum  Exporting 
Countries  (OPEC):  trade  with,  158 

PAIGC.  See  African  Party  for  the  In- 
dependence of  Guinea  and  Cape  Verde 

Pais,  Alvaro,  20 

Pais,  Leme,  38 

Pais,  SidoniO,  53 

Paiva,  Afonso  de,  28 

Paiva  Couciero,  Henrique,  53 

Paiva  de  Andrade,  49 

Paleolithic  period,  4 

Palmela,  duke  of,  46 

Palmela  necropolis,  4 

Partido  Africano  pelo  Independencia  de 
Guine  e  Cabo  Verde  (PAIGC).  See 
African  Party  for  the  Independence  of 
Guinea  and  Cape  Verde 

Partido  Comunista  Portugues  (PCP).  See 
Portuguese  Communist  Party 

Partido  Democratico  (PD).  See  Demo- 
cratic Party 

Partido  do  Centro  Democratico  Social 
(CDS).  See  Party  of  the  Social  Demo- 
cratic Center 

Partido  Popular  Democratico  (PPD).  See 
Popular  Democratic  Party 

Partido  Popular  Monarquico  (PPM).  See 
Popular  Monarchist  Party 


319 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Partido  Renovador  Democratico  (PRD). 
See  Party  of  the  Democratic  Renovation 

Partido  Republicano  Evolucionista  (PRE). 
See  Republican  Evolutionist  Party 

Partido  Republicano  Portugues  (PRP). 
See  Portuguese  Republican  Party 

Partido  Social  Democrata  (PSD).  See  So- 
cial Democrat  Party 

Partido  Socialista  (PS).  See  Socialist  Party 

Party  of  the  Democratic  Renovation 
(PRD),  179,  202,  210 

Party  of  the  Social  Democratic  Center 
(CDS),  200-201,  206;  in  elections,  176, 
179;  founded,  201;  platform  of,  201;  in 
Revolution  of  1974,  xxvi,  168,  174 

Passos,  Manuel  da  Silva,  46 

PCEDED.  See  Program  for  the  Structur- 
al Adjustment  of  the  Foreign  Deficit 
and  Unemployment 

PCP.  See  Portuguese  Communist  Party 

PD.  See  Democratic  Party 

Peace  of  Tuy,  10 

peasants,  85;  marriage  of,  80;  oppression 
of,  207;  political  role  of,  207 

Pecanha,  Manuel.  See  Emmanuele 
Pessagno 

PEDAP.  See  Specific  Plan  for  the  Develop- 
ment of  Portuguese  Agriculture 

PEDIP.  See  Specific  Plan  for  the  Develop- 
ment of  Portuguese  Industry 

Pedro  (Duarte's  brother),  21;  killed,  23; 
as  regent,  22 

Pedro  I  (of  Brazil),  45;  abdicated,  46 

Pedro  II,  37 

Pedro  II  (of  Brazil),  46 

Pelayo,  8 

penal  system,  271-72;  incarceration  ra- 
tio in,  272;  ombudsman  for,  272;  time 
served  in,  272 

Peninsular  Wars,  41-43 

Pentecostals,  102 

Pereira,  Nun'Alvares,  20 

Peres,  Fernando,  9,  10 

Persian  Gulf  war,  239,  259 

Pessagno,  Emmanuele  (Manuel  Pecan- 
ha): naval  exploits  of,  19;  navy  devel- 
oped by,  18 

Petrogal.  See  Petroleos  de  Portugal 

Petroleos  de  Portugal  (Petrogal),  126,  130 

Philip  II,  35,  36 

Philip  III,  36,  224 

Philip  IV,  36 

Philippa  of  Lancaster,  21 


Phoenicians:  conquest  by,  5 
physical  environment,  66-70 
PIDE.  See  International  Police  for  the 

Defense  of  the  State 
Pintado,  Valentina  Xavier,  120 
Pintasilgo,  Maria  de  Lourdes,  177 
Pinto,  Fernao  Mendes,  32 
pirates:  European,  23,  32;  Moroccan,  24 
plague,  22;  of  1348-49,  19;  of  1384,  20; 

of  1438,  21 
plains,  68 

Piano  de  Correccao  Estrutural  do  Deficit 
Externo  e  Desemprego  (PCEDED).  See 
Program  for  the  Structural  Adjustment 
of  the  Foreign  Deficit  and  Unemploy- 
ment 

Piano  Economico  para  o  Desenvolvimen- 
to  da  Agricultura  Portuguesa  (PEDAP). 
See  Specific  Plan  for  the  Development  of 
Portuguese  Agriculture 

Piano  Economico  para  o  Desenvolvimen- 
to  da  Industria  Portuguesa  (PEDIP).  See 
Specific  Plan  for  the  Development  of 
Portuguese  Industry 

P6,  Fernao  do,  26 

police,  national,  262;  civil  rights  protect- 
ed by,  268;  control  of,  262;  duties  of, 
262;  mistrust  of,  262 

police,  secret,  xxv,  169-70;  abhorrence  for, 
265;  abolished,  171,  265;  abuses  by, 
265;  activities  of,  210 

Policia  de  Seguranca  Publica  (PSP).  See 
Public  Security  Police 

Policia  Internacional  e  de  Defesa  do  Esta- 
do  (PIDE).  See  International  Police  for 
the  Defense  of  the  State 

political  demonstrations,  50,  173 

political  parties  (see  also  under  individual  par- 
ties), 195,  197-202;  alliances  among, 
xxvi-xxvii;  banned,  xxv,  57,  169;  fac- 
tions in,  xxx-xxxi;  far  left,  197-201;  far 
right,  201-2;  ineffectiveness  of,  xxiv- 
xxv;  middle  class  in,  206;  organization 
of,  167;  popular  view  of,  196;  precur- 
sors of,  197,  207;  in  Revolution  of  1974, 
xxvi-xxvii,  167;  strength  of,  197 

political  system  (see  also  political  parties): 
armed  forces  in,  234-36;  impact  of  mid- 
dle class  on,  90-91;  military  control  of, 
183;  structure  of,  196-97 

Pombal,  Marques  de,  39-41;  impact  of 
Enlightenment  on,  xxiv;  Jesuits  expelled 
by,  97;  reforms  of,  xxiv,  104 


320 


Index 


Popular  Democratic  Party  (PPD)  {see  also 
Social  Democrat  Party),  200;  in  elec- 
tions of  1976;  in  provisional  govern- 
ments, 174;  in  Revolution  of  1974, 
xxvi,  174 

Popular  Forces  of  the  25th  of  April 
(FP-25),  262;  arrests  of  members  of, 
267,  270,  272;  attacks  by,  266-67;  goals 
of,  267;  reaction  to,  267 

Popular  Monarchist  Party  (PPM),  178, 
201-2;  support  for,  201 

Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of 
Angola  (MPLA),  214,  228 

population,  70,  73-75;  age  distribution  in, 
74-75,  76;  of  Amadora,  74;  of  Coim- 
bra,  74;  decline  in,  74,  136;  density,  73, 
140;  distribution  of,  73;  in  1864,  73; 
Gypsies  in,  95;  Jews  in,  95;  of  Lisbon, 
74;  in  1992,  73;  of  Porto,  74;  project- 
ed, 73;  rural,  74;  of  Setubal,  74;  struc- 
ture, 73-75 

population  percentages:  allowed  to  vote, 
48,  56;  attending  university,  107;  in- 
volved in  agriculture,  xxxii;  middle 
class,  90;  in  poverty,  109;  practicing 
religion,  99;  Protestants,  102 

population  statistics:  emigration  rate,  70; 
growth  rate,  70,  73,  76,  137;  infant 
mortality  rate,  xxxiv,  70,  109;  life  ex- 
pectancy, 109;  sex  ratio,  74-75,  76 

Populator,  the.  See  Sancho  I 

Portalegre:  expropriations  of  land  in,  143 

Portela  Airport,  152 

Portimao,  142,  146 

Porto,  8;  as  bastion  of  liberalism,  43;  im- 
migrants to,  74;  industry  in,  146;  popu- 
lation of,  74;  population  density  in,  73 

Porto  Santo,  25 

ports,  126,  152 

Portucel,  126 

Portugal  and  the  Future  (Spnola) ,  171,  213, 
232 

Portugal-Madeira- Azores  triangle.  See 

strategic  triangle 
Portuguese  Communist  Party  (PCP), 

xxxi,  167,  198-99;  decline  of,  198-99, 
210;  in  elections,  176,  178,  179,  210; 
geographic  distribution  of,  67;  leaders 
of,  exiled,  198;  outlawed,  270;  peasants 
in,  207;  in  provisional  governments, 
174;  in  Revolution  of  1974,  xxiii,  xxvi, 
171-72,  173,  174;  Stalinism  of,  xxxi- 

xxxii,  198;  support  for,  xxxi,  91 


Portuguese  Confederation  of  Commerce 

(CCP),  206 
Portuguese    Democratic  Movement 

(MDP),  174,  197-98;  influence  of,  198; 

members  of,  198 

Portuguese  Guinea.  See  Guinea,  Por- 
tuguese 

Portuguese  Industrial  Association  (AIP), 
206 

Portuguese  language:  Arabic  influence 
on,  8;  as  language  of  Macau,  195;  as 
national  language,  18;  regional  differ- 
ences, 94 

Portuguese  Legion,  59,  226;  abolished, 

226;  number  of  personnel  in,  226 
Portuguese  Republican  Party  (PRP),  52 
post  office,  126 

poverty,  58;  population  living  in,  109 
Povoador,  O.  See  Sancho  I 
PPD.  See  Popular  Democratic  Party 
PPM.  See  Popular  Monarchist  Party 
PRD.  See  Party  of  the  Democratic  Reno- 
vation 

PRE.  See  Republican  Evolutionist  Party 
Presbyterians,  102 

president,  183-85;  under  constitution  of 
1976,  xxvii;  duties  of,  184;  elections  for, 
176,  180,  184,  196,  209;  power  of, 
183-84;  term  of  office,  184,  196;  veto 
power  of,  184 

press  {see  also  media;  newspapers):  control 
of,  xxv,  210;  freedom  for,  xxiv,  169, 
211 

Prester  John's  kingdom:  search  for,  28 
prices:  agricultural,  144;  fixed,  138 
prime  minister,  185-86;  independence  of, 
185;  indirect  election  of,  185;  term  of 
office  of,  185-86 
Principe  Island:  discovered,  26 
prisoners,  271-72;  juvenile,  271-72;  mili- 
tary, 271;  number  of,  271;  work  by, 
272 

prisons,  271-72 

private  sector:  creation  of,  120;  elite  domi- 
nation of,  118;  size  of,  116 

privatization,  xxxii,  xxxiii,  147-48,  183, 
209;  enacted,  133;  objectives  of,  133; 
partial,  155;  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  133;  proceeds  of,  133 

professions,  89;  women  in,  83 

Program  for  the  Structural  Adjustment  of 
the  Foreign  Deficit  and  Unemployment 
(PCEDED),  156 


321 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Progressives  {see  also  Historical;  Septem- 
berists),  48 

proletariat,  lumpen,  92 

Protestant  Reformation,  32 

Protestants,  95;  as  conscientious  objec- 
tors, 103,  252;  expelled,  102;  number 
of,  102 

provinces,  67-68 

PRP.  See  Portuguese  Republican  Party 

PS.  See  Socialist  Party 

PSD.  See  Social  Democrat  Party 

PSP.  See  Public  Security  Police 

public  enterprises,  128;  denationalization 
of,  128;  financial  condition  of,  130;  na- 
tionalized, 129-30;  nonfmancial,  128- 
30;  overstaffing  of,  130;  as  percentage 
of  gross  domestic  product,  129;  unions 
in,  129 

Publico,  211 

public  order,  216-67 

public  sector:  borrowing,  128,  132,  133; 
employment  in,  117;  expansion  of,  127; 
role  of,  128-33;  size  of,  116,  126-27; 
spending,  128 

Public  Security  Police  (PSP),  261, 
263-64;  demonstration  by,  264;  head- 
quarters of,  263;  mission  of,  263;  re- 
organized, 263;  women  in,  263;  zones 
of,  263 

purges:  after  1974  revolution,  116,  127 
Pyrenees  Mountains,  66 


Quadragesimo  Anno   (papal  encyclical) 

(1931),  98,  203 
Quadruple  Alliance,  47 
Quimigal,  125,  147 


radio,  152;  freedom  for,  211;  national- 
ized, 125,  210,  211 

Radiodifusao  Portuguesa  (RDP),  212 

Radio  Marconi,  126 

Radio  Renascenca,  212;  closed,  211 

Radiotelevisao  Portuguesa  (RTP),  212 

railroads,  126,  152 

RDP.  See  Radiodifusao  Portuguesa 

rebellions:  Abrilada,  44;  against  ab- 
solutists, 45;  by  Catalans,  36;  at  Evora, 
36;  of  Saldanha,  48;  Septemberist,  47; 
Vilafrancada,  44 


Reconquest,  8-9,  10,  12,  13 
Regenerators,  48;  conflict  of,  with  Histor- 
ical, 50 

religion  {see  also  under  individual  sects), 
96-103;  folk  customs  in,  100-2;  histo- 
ry of,  96-98;  practice  of,  99-102;  su- 
perstitions in,  102 

religious  groups:  expelled,  102;  restric- 
tions on,  102-3 

remittances  from  emigrants,  77,  115-16, 
121,  158,  159-60 

Republic,  First,  xxiv,  4,  51-54;  agitation 
for,  206;  anticlericalism  under,  53,  97; 
economy  under,  117;  education  under, 
104;  elections  in,  52;  end  of,  54;  insta- 
bility during,  52,  169;  military  under, 
203,  225,  230;  separation  of  church  and 
state  in,  96;  women  under,  83 

Republic,  Second,  xxx,  4,  168 

Republica,  175,  211 

Republican  Evolutionist  Party  (PRE),  52 

republicanism,  49-61 

Republican  National  Union  (UNR):  fac- 
tions in,  52 

Republican  Union  (UR),  52 

Rerum  Novarum  (papal  encyclical)  (1891), 
98,  203 

retirement,  109 

retornados.  See  returnees  from  Africa 

returnees  from  Africa,  73,  122,  177; 
benefits  for,  136-37;  crimes  by,  271; 
impact  of,  78-79,  136,  214;  number  of, 
xxviii,  95,  136 

Revolution  of  1820,  43-44 

Revolution  of  1974,  xxiii,  xxvi-xxvii,  61, 
167,  171-74,  203,  225,  230-34;  armed 
forces  in,  224;  bureaucracy  under, 
xxxiii;  causes  of,  65-66,  170,  213;  con- 
sequences of,  xxiii,  123-28,  197,  262; 
and  church,  98-99;  and  class  system, 
89;  and  education,  104-5;  and  elite 
class,  xxiii,  77,  89-90;  emigration  to  es- 
cape, 77;  middle  class  in,  206;  peasants 
in,  207;  political  parties  in,  xxvi-xxvii; 
reaction  to,  167,  174-75,  217;  and  so- 
ciety, 92-94;  students  in,  207;  and 
women,  79 

Rhodes,  Cecil,  49 

Ribatejo,  142 

Richelieu  (cardinal),  36 

Rio  Chanca,  70 

Rio  Douro,  6,  67,  69,  140,  141 

Rio  Guadiana,  70 


322 


Index 


Rio  Lima,  70,  141 

Rio  Minho,  69,  140 

Rio  Mondego,  70,  141 

Rio  Sado,  70 

Rio  Tamega,  70 

Rio  Teja.  See  Tagus  River 

Rio  Zezere,  13 

rivers,  69 

roads,  152;  under  Roman  occupation,  6 

Roberto,  Holden,  227 

Rocha,  Paolo,  212 

Rodoviaria,  126 

Rodrigues,  Simao,  33 

Roman  Catholic  Church.  See  Catholic 
Church,  Roman 

Roman  law,  191,  192 

Roman  occupation,  5,6;  influence  of,  on 
legal  system,  191;  legacy  of,  6;  resto- 
ration of,  7 

rotativismo,  48,  202;  collapse  of,  50 

royal  patrimony:  confirmation  of,  16-17; 
control  of,  16-18;  dispute  over,  16-17 

RTP.  See  Radiotelevisao  Portuguesa 

rural  areas:  population  in,  74 

RXT  Metals  Group,  149 

SAC  EUR.  See  Supreme  Allied  Com- 
mander Europe 

SACLANT.  See  Supreme  Allied  Com- 
mander Atlantic 

Salazar,  Antonio  de  Oliveira  {see  also  New 
State),  4,  224;  appeal  of,  55;  back- 
ground of,  55;  death  of,  60;  as  minister 
of  finance,  54-55,  117,  169,  225,  230; 
as  minister  of  war,  225;  opposition  to, 
206;  as  prime  minister,  117,  169,  225; 
rise  to  power  of,  xxv,  117,  203;  stroke 
of,  60,  170;  world  view  of,  57 

Salazaristas,  170 

Saldanha,  duke  of,  46 

Sancho  I:  territorial  expansion  by,  10-12 

Sancho  II,  12 

Sanders,  Thomas  G.,  134 

Santa  Casa  de  Misericordia,  108 

Santarem,  75,  143 

Santos,  Eugenio  dos,  39 

Sao  Tome  Island,  214;  discovered,  26; 
immigrants  from,  95;  slave  trade 
through,  48 

sardine,  142 

savings,  household,  134,  160 

schools,  xxxiv,  103;  built  in  Brazil,  33; 


conditions  in,  108;  church  control  of, 
98;  enrollment  in,  105,  107-8;  girls', 
104;  government  control  of,  xxv;  un- 
der Pombal,  40;  preparatory,  105; 
primary,  105;  public,  40;  under  Roman 
occupation,  6;  secondary,  105,  108; 
vocational,  105-7 

Sebastian.  See  Sebastiao 

Sebastianism,  35 

Sebastiao,  34-35,  224 

Security  Intelligence  Service  (SIS),  265, 
266 

security  policies,  223 
seigniorial  rights:  abolished,  44 
Senegal  River,  25 

Septemberists  {see  also  Historicals;  Pro- 
gressives), 47,  48;  rebellion  by,  47 
serfs,  16,  85 

Serpa  Pinto,  Alexandre,  48,  49 
Serra  da  Estrela,  69 
Serra  de  Monchique,  69 
Serra  do  Caldeirao,  69 
Serra  do  Geres,  69 

services  sector,  xxxiii,  150-55;  expansion 

of,  115,  120;  foreign  investment  in, 

161;  labor  force  in,  134-36,  137,  150; 

as   percentage   of  gross  domestic 

product,  115,  121,  122,  150 
Servico  de  Informacoes  e  Seguranca 

(SIS).  See  Security  Intelligence  Service 
Servico  de  Informacoes  Estrategicas  de 

Defesa  (SIED).  See  Defense  Strategic 

Intelligence  Service 
Servico  de  Informacoes  Militares  (SIM). 

See  Military  Intelligence  Service 
Setenave.  See  Estaleiros  Navais  de  Setubal 
settler  communities  {concelhos),  15 
Setubal:  expropriations  of  land  in,  143; 

immigrants  to,  74;  industry  in,  146; 

population  of,  74;  vineyards  in,  141 
Seville:  ancient  trading  post  at,  5 
shipbuilding,  126;  nationalized,  125 
shipping:  nationalized,  125 
Shultz,  George,  238 
Siderurgia  Nacional,  126,  147,  148 
SIED.  See  Defense  Strategic  Intelligence 

Service 
Silva,  Anfbal  Cavaco,  128 
Silva,  Antonio  Maria  da,  54 
Silva  Porto,  Antonio  Francisco,  48 
Silves,  Diogo  de,  25 
SIM.  See  Military  Intelligence  Service 
Sinedrio,  43 


323 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


Sines:  industry  in,  146,  161;  port  of,  152 
SIRP.  See  Intelligence  System  of  the 

Republic  of  Portugal 
SIS.  See  Security  Intelligence  Service 
Sistema  de  Informacoes  da  Republica 

Portuguesa  (SIRP).  See  Intelligence 

System  of  the  Republic  of  Portugal 
Six- Year  Plan  for  National  Development 

(1959-64),  119 
slaves,  16,  25;  importation  of,  38;  trade 

in,  48 

Soares,  Mario  Alberto  Nobre  Lopes, 
xxvi,  175;  exiled,  199;  popularity  of, 
209;  as  president,  168-69,  180,  234;  as 
prime  minister,  xxix,  176,  179;  quali- 
ties of,  184-85;  return  from  exile, 
171-72,  199 

social  classes,  85-94;  changes  in,  88,  94; 
divisions  among,  65;  in  early  history, 
15;  identification  of,  92;  impact  of  1974 
revolution  on,  89-90;  mobility  among, 
65,  85,  92,  120,  127;  organization  of, 
85;  perpetuation  of,  86-88 

Social  Democrat  Party  (PSD)  (see  also 
Popular  Democrat  Party),  xxix,  xxxi, 
168,  199-200,  206;  origins  of,  200;  sup- 
port for,  91,  186,  200,  208,  210 

Socialist  Party  (PS),  167,  199;  in  elec- 
tions, xxviii,  176,  178,  179,  210;  lead- 
ers of,  exiled,  199;  origins  of,  199; 
peasants  in,  207;  platform  of,  xxi,  199; 
in  provisional  governments,  174;  in 
Revolution  of  1974,  xxvi,  171-72,  174; 
support  for,  91,  199 

social  revolution,  21-22 

social  structure,  85-94 

society:  changes  in,  xxxiv-xxxv,  65,  167, 
170;  effect  of  European  Community 
membership  on,  133,  215 

Society  of  Jesus.  See  Jesuits 

Socotra  Island,  31 

Soult,  Nicholas,  42 

Sousa,  Caetano  de,  39 

Sousa,  Martim  Afonso  de,  32 

Sousa,  Tome  de,  32,  33 

South  Korea.  See  Korea,  Republic  of 

Soviet  Union,  237;  materiel  from,  for 
African  insurgents,  232 

Spain:  annexation  of  Portugal  by,  35;  fear 
of  reannexation  by,  37,  66,  215;  invest- 
ment from,  161;  materiel  from,  245, 
248;  as  member  of  North  Atlantic 
Treaty  Organization,  216,  258;  rela- 


tions with,  215-16;  tourists  from,  150; 
trade  with,  116,  157;  war  of,  with 
France,  41 
Spanish  Civil  War  (1936-39),  59;  aid  to, 

226;  participation  in,  226,  246 
Special  Forces  Brigade,  223,  241-42;  per- 
sonnel of,  242 
Specific  Plan  for  the  Development  of  Por- 
tuguese Agriculture  (PEDAP),  160 
Specific  Plan  for  the  Development  of  Por- 
tuguese Industry  (PEDIP),  160 
spices:  cultivation  of,  38;  trade  in,  23-24 
Spmola,  Antonio  de,  xxvi,  61,  171-74; 
book  by,  171,  213,  232;  as  governor  of 
Portuguese  Guinea,  228;  as  head  of 
Junta  of  National  Salvation,  232;  ob- 
jectives of,  124-25;  as  president,  124, 
172;  resignation  of,  233 
state  enterprises:  abolished,  41 
state  of  emergency,  176 
Straits  of  Gibraltar,  238,  257 
strategic   triangle  (Portugal-Madeira- 
Azores  triangle),  223,  237-38 
students:  political  activities  of,  198;  po- 
litical role  of,  206-7 
suffrage.  See  voting  rights 
sugar:  as  Brazilian  export  crop,  32 
Sunda  Islands:  spice  trade  in,  31,  31 
Superior  Council  of  Finance,  187 
Superior  Council  of  the  Administrative 

and  Fiscal  Courts,  190 
Superior  Intelligence  Council,  266 
Supreme  Administrative  Court,  190 
Supreme  Allied  Commander  Atlantic 

(SACLANT),  216,  258 
Supreme  Allied  Commander  Europe 

(SACEUR),  216 
Supreme  Court  of  Administration,  190 
Supreme  Court  of  Justice,  190 
Swabians,  6;  defeat  of,  7;  legacy  of,  6 
Switzerland:  Portuguese  guestworkers  in, 
79 


Tabaqueira,  126 

Tagus  River,  4,  69,  140,  141,  142 
Tanzania,  31 

TAP.  See  Transportes  Aereos  Portugueses 
tariff  system,  119 
Tariq  ibn  Ziyad,  7 

taxes:  evasion  of,  131;  increase  in  revenue 
from,  132;  local,  194;  to  pay  for  re- 
forms, 104;  under  Spanish  occupation, 


324 


Index 


36;  by  Turks,  on  spice  trade,  24;  value- 
added,  131-32 
tax  reform,  124,  131;  phases  of,  131-32 
teachers:  morale  of,  xxxiv,  108;  and 
republicanism,  50;  salaries  of,  xxxiv, 
108 

Technical  University  of  Lisbon,  107 
Teixeira,  Pedro,  38 
telephones,  152 
Teles,  Leonor,  19 

television,  152;  freedom  for,  211;  nation- 
alized, 125,  210,  211 
Temple  of  Diana,  6 
Teodosio,  37 
Tercira,  duke  of,  46 
Teresa  (of  Leon),  9 
Terra  dos  Vaqueiros,  26 
terrorism,  265-67 

textile  industry,  37-38,  40;  exports  by, 
156,  157 

Timor,  218;  exploration  of,  32;  im- 
migrants from,  95;  independence  for, 
175;  occupied  by  Japan,  59 

Tomas,  Americo,  56,  61,  170,  230 

topography,  67-69;  suitability  of,  for 
agriculture,  70 

torture,  264 

tourism,  xxxiii,  159-60;  in  the  Algarve, 
67;  attractions  of,  150-52;  employment 
in,  150;  foreign  investment  in,  161; 
growth  of,  159;  income  from,  115,  121, 
150,  158,  159;  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  150;  volume  of,  150, 
159 

trade  {see  also  exports;  imports):  with  Brit- 
ain, 38-39;  composition  of,  156-58; 
deficit,  121,  158;  direction  of,  156;  in 
manufactured  goods,  157;  with  Spain, 
116;  in  spices,  23-24;  strategy,  118-19 

Traffic  Brigade,  263 

transportation,  130;  employment  in,  150; 
improvements  in,  152;  infrastructure, 
152;  nationalization  of,  125 

Transportes  Aereos  Portugueses  (TAP), 
126,  152 

Tras-os-Montes,  67,  69;  insurrection  in, 

44;  topography  of,  140 
Treasury  Police.  See  Fiscal  Guard 
Treaty  of  Fontainebleau  (1807),  42 
Treaty  of  Friendship  and  Nonaggression 

(1939).  See  Iberian  Pact 
Treaty  of  San  Idelfonso  (1800),  41 
Treaty  of  Tordesillas  (1494),  32 


Treaty  of  Windsor  (1386),  21,  216,  237 
Treaty  on  Conventional  Forces  in  Europe 

(1990),  244 
Tristao,  Nuno,  25 
Tuchman,  Barbara,  65 
Turks:  restrictions  by,  on  spice  trade,  24 

UGT.  See  General  Union  of  Workers 
UN.  See  National  Union 
UN.  See  United  Nations 
underemployment,  141 
unemployment:  benefits,  109;  in  1970s, 

176;  rate,  136,  139 
Uniao  Geral  dos  Trabalhadores  (UGT). 

See  General  Union  of  Workers 
Uniao   Nacional   (UN).   See  National 

Union 

Uniao  Nacional  para  a  Independencia 
Total  de  Angola  (UNITA).  See  Nation- 
al Union  for  the  Total  Independence  of 
Angola 

Uniao  Nacional  Republicana  (UNR).  See 
Republican  National  Union 

Uniao  Republicana  (UR).  See  Republican 
Union 

Unicer,  126 

Unionists.  See  Republican  Union 

UNITA.  See  National  Union  for  the  To- 
tal Independence  of  Angola 

United  Nations  (UN),  218;  admitted  to, 
59,  215;  declaration  on  colonialism 
(1960),  60 

United  States,  216-17;  aid  from,  160; 
emigration  to,  77-78,  134,  160;  invest- 
ment from,  161;  Lajes  Air  Base  used 
by,  226,  248,  259;  materiel  acquired 
from,  223-224,  248,  259-60;  military 
assistance  from,  244,  248,  259;  military 
relations  with,  259;  military  training 
by,  260;  reaction  of,  to  Revolution  of 
1974,  167,  175,  217;  relations  with, 
213,  237;  trade  with,  157 

United  States  Arms  Control  and  Disar- 
mament Agency  (ACDA),  256 

universities,  107;  admission  to,  107;  en- 
rollment, 107;  faculties  of,  107;  faculty 
ranks  in,  107;  middle  class  in,  206; 
politicization  of,  207;  reform  of,  40-41, 
207 

University  of  Coimbra,  18,  39,  107;  es- 
tablished, 103;  reforms  in,  104 
University  of  Lisbon,  107 


325 


Portugal:  A  Country  Study 


University  of  Porto,  107 

UNR.  See  Republican  National  Union 

UR.  See  Republican  Union 

urban  areas:  working  class  in,  92 

urbanization,  65,  170 

Vandals,  6;  exiled,  7 
Venezuela:  emigration  to,  77,  134 
Verney,  Luis  Antonio,  40;  reforms  by, 
104 

Vilafrancada  uprising  (1823),  44 
Vila  Real,  74 
Viriato,  5 
Viseu,  8,  74 
Viseu,  duke  of,  23 

Visigoths,  7;  Christianity  introduced  by, 
96;  reconquest  by,  8 

voting  rights:  age  for,  195;  for  emigres, 
183;  percentage  of  population  extend- 
ed to,  48,  56;  restrictions  on,  xxiv,  56; 
under  Second  Republic,  xxx;  of  wom- 
en, 56 

wages,  137-39;  average,  138;  increases 
in,  139;  maximum,  138;  minimum, 
138;  in  1970s,  176;  per  capita,  139 

War  of  the  Oranges,  41 

War  of  the  Two  Brothers,  45-46 

Warsaw  Pact,  238-39 

welfare,  xxxiv,  108-11;  lack  of  funds  to 
implement,  108;  private  responsibility 
for,  108;  programs,  109 

Wellesley,  Sir  Arthur  (duke  of  Welling- 
ton), 42 

Western  European  Union  (WEU),  215 


West  Germany.  See  Germany,  Federal 

Republic  of 
West  Irian,  218 

WEU.  See  Western  European  Union 

Wheeler,  Douglas  L.,  117 

Wiarda,  Howard  J.,  118 

wine:  export  of,  141-42,  157-58;  indus- 
try, 40,  216 

women,  82-84;  in  armed  forces,  253;  un- 
der constitution  of  1976,  82;  education 
of,  83,  104;  equal  rights  for,  xxxiv- 
xxxv,  82,  83-84;  under  First  Repub- 
lic, 83;  impact  of  emigration  on,  77;  im- 
pact of  1974  revolution  on,  79; 
independence  of,  80;  marriage  of,  80; 
maternal  leave  for,  82;  maternity 
benefits  for,  109;  under  New  State,  83; 
in  police  force,  263;  in  professions,  83; 
religious  practice  by,  100;  roles  of,  47; 
subservience  of,  82-83;  voting  rights  of, 
56 

workers:  rights  of,  51 
Workers'  Committees,  xxvi,  181 
working  class:  growth  of,  170;  kinship 
networks  in,  84-85;  living  standards  of, 
94;  marriage  in,  80;  after  Revolution 
of  1974,  139;  in  rural  areas,  92 
World  Bank:  economic  plan  from,  124; 

membership  in,  119 
World  War  I,  53,  225,  246 
World  War  II:  neutrality  in,  59 

Xavier,  Francisco,  32,  33 

Zaire,  227 


326 


Contributors 


Eric  N.  Baklanoff  is  Research  Professor  of  Economics  Emeri- 
tus at  the  University  of  Alabama. 

Walter  C.  Opello,  Jr.  is  Chairman  of  Political  Science  at  the 
State  University  of  New  York  at  Oswego. 

Eric  Solsten  is  Senior  Research  Specialist  in  West  European 
Affairs,  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of  Congress. 

Jean  R.  Tartter  is  a  retired  Foreign  Service  Officer,  who  has 
written  extensively  on  Western  Europe  for  Country  Study 
volumes. 

Howard  J.  Wiarda  is  Professor  of  Political  Science  at  the 
University  of  Massachusetts/ Amherst. 


327 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-87 

Greece 

550-98 

Albania 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-59 

Angola 

550-82 

Guyana  and  Belize 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-169 

Australia 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-176 

Austria 

550-21 

India 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-68 

Iran 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-25 

Israel 

550-61 

Burma 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-ZO 

Colombia 

550-58 

T  _ 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

jDU-oy 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

CCA    i  *70 

550-172 

x  /T_i  _  : 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic  and 

550-76 

Mongolia 

Haiti 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-167 

Finland 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-46 

Panama 

329 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-185 

PpT^iai"!    tirllfT    Sit  a  tf*<2 
X  V^l  olclll    uUll    kJ Let o 

550-89 

Ti  in  l  qi  n 

550-42 

550-80 

'Turkey 

550-72 

P  n  1 1 1  r\  r\i  n  q 
X  11111  LJLUllCo 

550-74 

T  Tcranrl 

550-162 

Poland 

550-97 

Uruguay 

550-181 

Pnrti  i  era  1 

550-71 

V  CIICZ/UClo. 

550-160 

Romania. 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-183 

550-51 

Slanrii  AraHia 

UClUUl    ill  CLUICL 

550-99 

YiicroQlavia 

X  LAliWOlClV  Id 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-184 

Slin  aranniv* 

550-171 

7 1  m  rv  a  riiA/f* 

Z_j  1  J.  1 1 L/CX  kj  VV  C 

■^0-86 

JJv  OU 

OUlllctlict 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

^r»\/ifit  TTninn 

OLIVICL    KJ  H1\JH 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

330 


PIN:  015052-000 


