JN  96 
.A2  R46 


FT  MEADE 
GenCol 1 


1990 
Copy  2 


3B 


Cwr>- 


COMMISSION  ON 

SECURITY  AND  COOPERATION  IN  EUROPE 

CONGRESS  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 
237  HOUSE  OFFICE  BUILDING  ANNEX  2 
WASHINGTON,  DC  20515 

(202)  225-1901 


REPORT  OF  THE  HELSINKI  COMMISSION 

ON 

THE  U.S.  CONGRESSIONAL  DELEGATION  VISIT 

TO 

ALBANIA,  BULGARIA,  CZECHOSLOVAKIA  AND  BERLIN 

(CODEL  DeCONCINI) 


AUGUST  18  -  24,  1990 


MEMBERS  OF  DELEGATION 


Chairman 


Senator  Dennis  DeConcini  (D-AZ),  Chairman  of  the  Helsinki  Commission 


Members 


Senator  Paul  Sarbanes  (D-MD)  * 

Mrs.  Christine  Sarbanes  * 

Representative  Jim  Moody  (D-WI)  ** 

William  Fritts  (U.S.  Department  of  Commerce)  *** 

Helsinki  Commission  Staff 

Samuel  Wise,  Staff  Director 
David  Evans,  Senior  Advisor 
Robert  Hand,  Staff  Assistant 
Erika  Schlager,  Staff  Assistant  **** 


Air  Force  Escorts 


Lieutenant  Colonel  David  Hayes  *** 
Major  Donald  Alston 
Major  John  Cox 

Staff  Seargent  Mark  Seelbaugh  *** 
Staff  Seargent  Bobby  Sanders  *** 


'b 


*  Albania,  Bulgaria  and  Czechoslovakia  only 

**  Albania  and  Bulgaria  only 

***  Bulgaria,  Czechoslovakia  and  Berlin  only 

****  Czechoslovakia  and  Berlin  only 


CONTENTS 


Introduction . 1 

Albania . 3 

I.  Objectives .  3 

II.  The  Context . 3 

III.  The  Visit .  6 

IV.  Observations . 8 

V.  Conclusion . 11 

Bulgaria .  15 

I.  Objectives . 15 

II.  The  Context . 15 

III.  The  Visit . 17 

Czechoslovakia . 21 

I.  Overview  and  Objectives . 21 

II.  Context  of  the  Visit . 21 

III.  Meetings . 25 

Berlin .  31 

I.  Objectives . 31 

II.  The  Context . 31 

III.  The  Visit . 32 

IV.  Observations .  33 


INTRODUCTION 


The  Commission  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  -  also  known  as  the 
Helsinki  Commission  —  was  created  in  1976  by  Public  Law  94-304  with  a  mandate  to 
monitor  and  encourage  compliance  with  the  Final  Act  of  the  Conference  on  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  (CSCE),  which  was  signed  in  Helsinki,  Finland,  on  August  1,  1975, 
by  the  leaders  of  33  European  countries,  the  United  States  and  Canada. 

The  Helsinki  Final  Act  and  subsequent  CSCE  documents  encompass  nearly  every 
aspect  of  relations  between  States,  including:  military-security;  economic,  scientific  and 
environmental  cooperation;  cultural  and  education  exchanges;  and  human  rights  and  other 
humanitarian  concerns.  The  goal  has  been  to  lower  the  barriers  which  have  artificially 
divided  Europe  into  East  and  West  for  more  than  four  decades.  Periodic  review  meetings 
have  been  held  to  continue  this  process:  Belgrade  (1977-78),  Madrid  (1980-83),  and  Vienna 
(1986-89),  with  the  next  scheduled  for  Helsinki  in  March  1992.  Experts  meetings  on 
specific  issues  and  lasting  only  a  few  weeks  are  held  in  between  these  main  meetings. 

The  Commission  consists  of  nine  members  from  the  U.S.  Senate,  nine  members 
from  the  U.S.  House  of  Representatives,  and  one  member  each  the  Departments  of  State, 
Commerce  and  Defense.  The  positions  of  Chairman  and  Co-Chairman  are  shared  by  the 
House  and  the  Senate  and  rotate  every  two  years,  when  a  new  Congress  convenes.  The 
Commission  is  currently  chaired  by  Senator  Dennis  DeConcini  (D-AZ)  and  Co-Chaired  by 
Representative  Steny  H.  Hoyer  (D-MD).  A  professional  staff  of  approximately  15  persons 
assists  the  Commissioners  in  their  work. 

The  Commission  carries  out  its  mandate  in  a  variety  of  ways.  First,  it  gathers  and 
disseminates  information  on  Helsinki-related  topics  both  to  the  U.S.  Congress  and  the 
public.  It  frequently  holds  public  hearings  with  expert  witnesses  focusing  on  these  topics. 
Similarly,  the  Commission  issues  reports  on  the  implementation  of  the  Helsinki  Final  Act 
and  subsequent  CSCE  documents.  The  Commission  plays  a  unique  role  in  assisting  and 
planning  the  execution  of  U.S.  policy  at  CSCE  meetings  and  participates  as  full  members 
of  the  U.S.  delegations  to  these  meetings. 

Finally  members  of  the  Commission  maintain  regular  contacts  with  parliamentarians, 
government  officials  and  private  individuals  from  other  Helsinki-signatory  States.  Such 
contacts  often  take  the  form  of  Commission  delegations  to  other  countries,  usually  with  the 
participation  of  other  Members  of  Congress,  such  as  the  August  1990  visit  to  Albania, 
Bulgaria,  Czechoslovakia  and  Berlin. 


VISIT  TO  ALBANIA 
August  19-21,  1990 


I.  OBJECTIVES 

The  Commission  delegation  visit  to  Albania  had  two  basic  purposes.  The  first  was 
to  initiate  a  dialogue  with  Albanian  officials  on  CSCE-related  issues.  In  1990,  the  Albanian 
Government  for  the  first  time  expressed  a  desire  to  participate  in  the  CSCE,  or  Helsinki, 
process.  In  fact,  Albania  was  granted  the  status  of  an  observer  at  recent  CSCE  meetings, 
beginning  with  the  Copenhagen  Meeting  of  the  Conference  on  the  Human  Dimension  of 
the  CSCE,  which  took  place  in  June  1990.  In  light  of  this  development  and  the 
Commission  mandate  to  follow  the  Helsinki  process,  the  Commission  viewed  the 
establishment  of  a  discussion  of  the  CSCE  with  Albanian  officials  similar  to  that  already 
established  with  CSCE  signatories. 

The  second  goal  of  the  delegation  was  to  obtain  a  firsthand  view  of  the  situation 
in  Albania,  particularly  as  it  related  to  human  rights.  Since  official  relations  were  broken 
in  1939,  there  have  been  virtually  no  contacts  between  the  United  States  and  Albania,  and 
little  is  therefore  known  about  Albanian  society  or  how  the  political  and  economic  systems 
function.  In  addition  to  seeing  Tirane,  the  capital  of  the  country,  the  Commission 
expressed  an  interest  in  travelling  to  Durres,  a  city  on  the  Adriatic  coast,  as  well  as  to  the 
historic  town  of  Kruje. 

Overall,  the  delegation  was  able  to  accomplish  these  limited  objectives.  During  the 
visit,  the  Commission  was  able  to  initiate  what  is  hoped  to  be  an  on-going  dialogue.  All 
of  the  Commission’s  requests  for  meetings  or  activities  were  basically  met,  with  one  critical 
exception.  The  delegation  had  requested  to  visit  the  prison  labor  camp  known  to  exist  at 
Spac,  north  of  Tirane.  This  request,  made  in  light  of  numerous  reports  about  the  harsh 
treatment  accorded  prisoners  —  especially  political  prisoners  —  in  Spac,  was  similar  to  those 
made  by  the  Commission  when  it  visited  other  countries,  but  Albanian  officials  denied  the 
request. 


II.  THE  CONTEXT 

The  Commission  delegation  visit  to  Albania  came  at  a  time  of  great  change  in 
Europe  and,  for  the  first  time  since  World  War  II,  potentially  far-reaching  change  in 
Albania  itself. 


-  3  - 


Albania,  situated  between  Greece  and  Yugoslavia  on  the  Adriatic  coast,  is  a 
relatively  small  country  with  a  population  of  about  3  million  people.  According  to  official 
figures,  98  percent  of  the  population  is  ethnically  Albanian,  linguistically  divided  into  the 
northern  Ghegs  and  the  southern  Tosks.  Reflecting  Ottoman  Turk,  Greek,  and  Italian 
influences,  Albanians  can  also  be  divided  according  to  religious  background,  with  around 
70  percent  coming  from  Muslim,  20  percent  from  Orthodox  and  10  percent  from  Roman 
Catholic  families,  although  Albania  today  claims  to  be  the  world’s  first  atheist  state.  The 
remainder  of  the  population  consists  mostly  of  a  Greek  minority,  although  there  are  also 
Macedonians,  Montenegrins,  Serbs,  Jews,  Gypsies  and  a  few  other  ethnic  groups  as  well. 
The  number  of  Greeks  is  unknown  but  is  believed  to  be  somewhere  between  the  official 
estimate  of  about  60,000  and  the  figure  of  400,000  claimed  by  some  Greek  organizations. 

Albania  has  a  long  history  of  foreign  rulers  and  was  the  last  Balkan  state  to  achieve 
independence,  freeing  itself  from  the  Ottomans  only  in  1912.  Being  a  mountainous, 
relatively  inaccessible  region,  however,  the  country  was  able  to  retain  not  only  its  linguistic 
uniqueness  but  the  old,  clan-oriented  customs  of  the  Albanian  people  as  well.  Albania 
was  ruled  before  the  war  by  King  Zog.  After  Italy’s  invasion  in  1939,  the  country  was 
ruled  by  a  puppet  regime  until  liberated  by  the  Communists,  led  by  Enver  Hoxha  and 
closely  aligned  with  the  Tito’s  Partisans  in  Yugoslavia. 

Enver  Hoxha  ruled  Albania  until  his  death  in  1985.  A  devout  Stalinist,  Hoxha  sided 
with  the  Soviet  Union  when  Tito  broke  from  the  Communist  bloc  in  1948,  only  to  break 
from  the  Soviets  himself  in  the  early  1960’s,  following  Khrushchev’s  rapprochement  with 
Yugoslavia.  Albania  then  enhanced  its  relationship  with  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
until  that  country  initiated  post-Mao  reforms  and  expanded  ties  with  the  United  States  in 
the  late  1970’s.  Since  that  time,  Albania  has  maintained  the  hard  Stalinist  course  on  its 
own,  although  since  Hoxha’s  death  in  1985  there  have  been  efforts  to  lessen  the  degree 
to  which  the  country  is  isolated  internationally,  such  as  establishing  bilateral  relations  with 
an  increasing  number  of  countries  and  participating  in  joint  meetings  of  Balkan  countries. 
A  member  of  the  United  Nations,  Albania’s  participation  has  been  low-key  and  only  in 
some  U.N.  bodies. 

Formal  diplomatic  relations  between  Albania  and  the  United  States  ended  with  the 
Italian  invasion  of  Albania  in  1939.  Immediately  after  the  war  an  informal  U.S.  mission 
established  itself  in  Tirane,  but  it  was  withdrawn  in  1946  due  to  harassment  by  the 
authorities.  Subsequently,  Albanian  official  statements  attacked  U.S.  policies  and  leaders, 
later  giving  the  Soviet  Union  and  then  China  similar  treatment.  Moreover,  Albania 
declined  participation  in  the  CSCE  process,  calling  the  original  Conference  a  Soviet- 
American  attempt  to  maintain  the  division  and  control  of  Europe. 


-  4  - 


On  the  domestic  scene,  Albania  is  economically  the  poorest  country  in  Europe, 
although  it  has  considerable  mineral  resources.  Albania’s  record  regarding  respect  for 
human  rights  is  also  very  poor.  It  has  strictly  controlled  the  movement  of  its  people,  both 
abroad  and  in  Albania  itself.  The  secret  police  (Sigurimi)  is  a  powerful  organization  that 
has  pervaded  society,  and  an  extensive  system  of  prisons  and  labor  camps  is  maintained 
for  those  who  express  even  mildly  dissenting  views.  As  a  result,  there  is  no  known 
organized  dissident  activity  in  Albania.  The  actual  number  of  political  prisoners  is 
unknown.  In  1990  the  Albanian  government  acknowledged  the  existence  of  political 
prisoners  for  the  first  time,  giving  a  figure  of  83  in  contrast  to  the  900-1,000  estimated  by 
a  recent  refugee  who  was  himself  a  political  prisoner  or  the  more  than  20,000  claimed  by 
some  foreign  sources.  Religion  was  prohibited  by  law  in  1967.  No  churches  are  open  for 
public  worship.  While  the  recognized  Greek  and  Macedonian  minorities  have  some 
educational  opportunities  in  their  native  language,  there  have  been  attempts  to  suppress 
their  cohesiveness  and  cultural  identity. 

In  1990,  there  have  been  signs  that  Albania  is  beginning  to  move  away  from  its 
isolationist  policies.  The  Albanian  government  now  is  seeking  to  become  a  participant  in 
the  CSCE  process  and  was  given  observer  status  both  at  the  Copenhagen  Human 
Dimension  Meeting  in  June  as  well  as  the  ongoing  CSCE  military-security  negotiations  and 
summit  preparations  in  Vienna.  In  May  1990,  U.N.  Secretary  General  Perez  de  Cuellar 
visited  Albania. 

Albania  has  also  indicated  a  desire  to  develop  relations  with  the  United  States  and 
the  Soviet  Union.  While  this  announcement  was  made  simultaneously  for  both  countries, 
it  had  only  reestablished  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  by  the  time  of  the  Commission’s 
visit.  Meetings  on  the  establishment  of  U.S.-  Albanian  relations  have  taken  place  and  are 
expected  to  continue.  In  May  1990,  the  Albanian  government  expressed  its  willingness  to 
receive  a  delegation  from  the  U.S.  Helsinki  Commission. 

The  domestic  front  has  seen  signs  of  change  as  well.  In  January  1990  and  on 
several  occasions  since,  there  were  reports  of  large  demonstrations  for  reform  in  several 
Albanian  cities  and  towns,  which  in  some  cases  the  Albanian  authorities  are  believed  to 
have  brutally  repressed.  They  have  played  down  the  extent  of  the  protest  or  denied  they 
even  took  place. 

Several  reforms  have  been  announced  which,  if  implemented,  would  lead  to  major 
changes  in  Albania,  especially  in  the  context  of  the  country’s  strict  adherence  to  the 
Stalinist  economic  and  political  system.  Among  the  reforms  is  the  abolition  of  criminal 
penalties  for  religious  propaganda,  liberalization  of  passport  issuance,  establishment  of  a 
Ministry  of  Justice,  and  permission  for  individuals  to  sell  produce  privately  and  to  form 
small  family  businesses. 


-  5  - 


In  early  July,  apparently  responding  to  the  lack  of  implementation  of  the  announced 
reforms,  more  than  5,000  Albanian  citizens  stormed  the  West  German  and  other  embassies 
in  Tirane,  seeking  to  leave  the  country.  A  number  were  known  to  have  been  shot  by 
Albanian  authorities  while  running  toward  the  embassies,  and  the  diplomatic  area  of  the 
city  was  closed  off.  As  world  attention  focused  on  the  country  and  the  situation  in  the 
embassies  became  increasingly  difficult,  however,  Albanian  authorities  eventually  decided 
to  permit  those  in  the  embassies  to  leave  for  Italy,  Czechoslovakia,  France  and  elsewhere. 
Many  want  to  come  to  the  United  States,  and  in  August  1990  some  went  on  a  hunger 
strike  near  the  U.S.  Embassy  in  Paris  to  protest  delays  in  processing.  The  episode  seems 
to  have  strengthened  reformist  trends  within  the  Albanian  leadership,  as  several  known 
hard-liners  were  replaced  by  individuals  believed  to  espouse  more  moderate  positions. 

There  are  several  possible  causes  for  the  recent  changes  in  Albania.  From  the  top, 
President  Alia  is  believed  to  be  leading  a  reformist  group  within  the  leadership  that  is 
gradually  gaining  strength  vis-a-vis  the  remaining  hard-liners,  which  apparently  include 
Nexhmije  Hoxha,  the  wife  of  Enver  Hoxha  and  head  of  the  Democratic  Front  organization. 
Reformist  positions  apparently  are  being  strengthened  by  a  steep  decline  in  the  country’s 
already  poor  economic  performance.  From  the  bottom,  Albanians  who  have  television  sets 
or  radios  are  able  to  receive  local  Greek,  Yugoslav  and  Italian  broadcasts,  in  addition  to 
those  of  Voice  of  America,  the  BBC  and  other  worldwide  stations.  As  a  result,  Albanians 
are  well  aware  of  the  wave  of  political  liberalization  which  swept  through  the  rest  of 
Eastern  Europe  in  1989  and  1990.  Pressure  for  change  also  comes  from  the  fact  that,  as 
a  result  of  a  high  birth  rate,  the  population  of  Albania  is  young,  with  half  of  the  country’s 
citizens  under  30  years  of  age.  Combined  with  the  poor  economic  conditions,  this 
population  is  believed  to  be  growing  increasingly  restless  in  its  current  state  of  isolation. 


III.  THE  VISIT 

When  the  Commission  delegation  arrived  in  Tirane  on  August  19,  it  was  greeted  by 
a  group  of  Albanian  officials  led  by  Rolanda  Dhimitri,  Vice-Chair  of  the  Permanent 
Commission  on  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Albanian  People’s  Assembly  and  Petraq  Pojani, 
Director  of  the  Department  for  Multilateral  Cooperation  of  the  Albanian  Foreign  Ministry. 

The  first  item  of  business  was  a  review  of  the  itinerary  for  the  visit.  Earlier,  the 
Commission  had  proposed  a  schedule  of  meetings  in  which  it  was  interested,  adding  that 
it  would  welcome  any  additional  activities  proposed  by  the  Albanian  government.  AJbanian 
officials  said  that  they  would  do  their  best  to  meet  the  Commission’s  requests  and  would 
present  an  itinerary  for  the  delegation’s  approval  upon  its  arrival,  although  they  indicated 
earlier  that  the  visit  to  the  Spac  labor  camp  listed  on  the  Commission’s  schedule  would  not 
be  allowed.  With  that  main  exception,  the  Commission’s  requests  for  meetings  and 
activities  were  met,  with  a  few  additional  meetings  added,  and  the  delegation  therefore 
agreed  to  the  itinerary. 


-  6  - 


The  delegation  was  then  formally  received  by  Foto  Cami,  Chair  of  the  Permanent 
Commission  on  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  People’s  Assembly  as  well  as  a  member  of  the 
Politburo  of  the  Albanian  Party  of  Labor.  Mr.  Cami  held  a  private  meeting  with  the 
delegation  and  then  hosted  a  dinner  in  its  honor. 

During  the  next  2  days,  the  delegation  met  with  numerous  other  senior  Albanian 
officials,  including  Ramiz  Alia,  who  as  President  of  the  Presidium  of  the  Albanian  People’s 
Assembly  is  the  titular  head  of  state.  Alia  also  heads  the  Party  of  Labor,  serving  as  First 
Secretary.  Private  meetings  were  also  held  with  Kleanthi  Koci,  President  of  the  Supreme 
Court  of  Albania,  and  Reis  Malile,  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs. 

In  addition  to  meetings  with  high-level  officials,  the  delegation  wanted  to  meet  with 
other  individuals  and  groups  who  were  involved  in  activities  of  interest  or  concern  to  the 
Commission,  particularly  human  rights.  This  proved  to  be  a  significantly  more  difficult 
exercise  than  was  the  case  during  Commission  visits  to  other  Communist  countries,  because 
even  in  those  countries  where  the  most  basic  human  rights  were  being  denied,  individuals, 
either  alone  or  organized  in  groups,  were  known  to  engage  in  dissenting  activities.  Control 
of  society  in  Albania,  on  the  other  hand,  has  been  so  pervasive  that  there  were  no  known 
human  rights  activists  with  whom  the  delegation  could  meet.  The  absence  of  a  United 
States  Embassy  in  Tirane  contributed  to  this  problem,  as  U.S.  embassies  in  other  East 
European  countries  have  played  an  important  role  in  seeking  and  maintaining  contacts  with 
independent  groups  and  individual  dissidents. 

Among  those  with  whom  the  Commission  delegation  did  meet  were  three 
representatives  of  the  Democratic  Front  for  the  Greek  Minority,  which  is  a  member 
organization  of  the  Democratic  Front  which  serves  to  transmit  official  policies  and  positions 
to  the  population.  The  delegation  also  met  with  Nikolla  Konomi,  rector  of  the  University 
of  Tirane,  and  a  group  of  about  20  English-speaking  university  students.  The  delegation 
also  arranged,  separate  from  the  itinerary  prepared  by  the  Albanian  government,  private 
meetings  with  representatives  of  the  Italian  and  Greek  embassies,  including  a  visit  to  the 
Greek  consulate  to  examine  the  difficult  situation  facing  foreign  embassies. 
Representatives  from  all  embassies  of  the  CSCE  countries  in  Tirane,  along  with  a  long  list 
of  Albanian  government  officials,  journalists,  economists,  writers  and  other  prominent 
figures  attended  a  Commission-hosted  reception,  which  also  permitted  a  widening  of 
contacts  in  a  less  formal  setting. 

The  delegation  requested  and  received  some  free  time  in  Tirane  during  which  its 
members  could  tour  Tirane,  examine  what  everyday  life  there  was  like,  and  perhaps  talk 
with  some  people.  Unfortunately,  the  Albanian  government  reacted  negatively  to  a 
Commission  request  that  it  bring  its  own  interpreter,  and  the  presence  of  an  interpreter 
provided  by  the  Albanian  government  itself  likely  hindered  the  openness  of  the  very  few 
contacts  that  were  made  with  the  public.  The  delegation  was  able  to  initiate  a 
conversation  with  some  individuals  on  Skenderbeg  Square  in  the  center  of  Tirane,  which 


-  7  - 


included  not  only  Albanian  citizens  but  also  several  Albanian-Americans  visiting  the 
country.  For  the  most  part,  however,  passers-by  seemed  to  want  to  avoid  being  seen 
talking  to  the  delegation.  Members  of  the  delegation,  with  the  helpful  escort  of  officials 
from  the  Foreign  Ministry  and  the  People’s  Assembly,  took  a  driving  tour  of  the  Tirane, 
including  a  stop  at  the  monument  to  Albanian  martyrs  which  overlooks  the  city,  and  visited 
the  National  Historical  Museum  of  Albania  and  to  Enver  Hoxha  Museum. 

Finally,  in  order  to  examine  the  situation  in  the  countryside  and  other  cities,  the 
Commission  asked  to  visit  the  city  of  Durres  on  the  Adriatic  coast,  as  well  as  the  historic 
town  of  Kruje,  in  the  mountains  north  of  Tirane,  where  the  Albanian  national  hero 
Skenderbeg  had  his  castle.  In  Durres,  members  of  the  delegation  attended  a  luncheon 
hosted  by  Luan  Babameto,  Chairman  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  Durres  District,  the 
equivalent  of  a  city  mayor.  In  Kruje,  the  delegation  toured  a  museum  built  over  the  ruins 
of  Skenderbeg’s  castle.  The  Commission  then  departed  Albania  for  its  next  destination. 


IV.  OBSERVATIONS 

During  the  entire  course  of  the  delegation’s  3-day  stay,  the  Albanian  government 
was  very  hospitable.  Vehicles  were  provided  for  transportation,  and  officials  who  escorted 
the  delegation  were  extremely  helpful  in  answering  questions  and  describing  the  situation 
in  Albania  as  they  saw  it.  Despite  a  strained  relationships  between  the  Albanian 
government  and  foreign  embassies,  the  delegation  was  not  hindered  in  making  contact  with 
foreign  diplomats  in  Tirane  and  visiting  the  diplomatic  district  of  the  city. 

There  was  little  if  any  variance  in  the  views  presented  by  Albanian  officials,  or,  for 
that  matter,  by  Albanians  who  were  not  representatives  of  the  government.  Most  issues 
were  explained  in  the  context  of  Albania’s  troubled  history,  with  the  centuries  of  foreign 
occupation  and  numerous  wars  in  the  Balkans  responsible  for  most  of  the  country’s  social 
and  economic  problems  and  necessitating  a  unique  course  of  action.  A  related  point 
repeatedly  raised  was  the  need  for  efforts  to  maintain  the  unity  of  Albania,  which,  it  was 
argued,  was  an  especially  difficult  task  given  the  fact  that  its  relatively  small  population  was 
previously  divided  among  three  major  and  very  different  religions.  This  was  most  strongly 
stated  by  Foto  Cami  who,  in  response  to  a  question  about  the  lack  of  places  of  worship 
in  Albania,  said  that  the  religion  of  Albania  was  "being  Albanian." 

When  the  CSCE  process  was  discussed,  Albanian  officials  expressed  a  strong  desire 
to  advance  from  the  status  of  observer  it  had  been  granted  at  recent  meetings  to  that  of 
a  full  member.  Full  members  are  permitted  to  speak  in  the  meetings,  introduce  proposals, 
and  participate  in  decisions  based  on  the  rule  of  consensus.  The  officials  added  that  the 
Albanian  government  had  reviewed  all  CSCE  documents  thoroughly  and  is  willing  to 
commit  itself  to  all  of  them,  from  the  Helsinki  Final  Act  of  August  1975  to  the  document 
of  the  Copenhagen  Human  Dimension  Meeting  which  was  adopted  in  June  1990. 


-  8  - 


On  this  point,  Chairman  Deconcini,  Senator  Sarbanes  and  Representative  Moody 
expressed  support  for  granting  Albania  observer  status  at  CSCE  meetings.  Noting  that 
CSCE  made  human  rights  a  subject  for  international  scrutiny,  however,  they  also  said  that 
the  Albanian  government  should  bring  its  performance  -  i.e.,  policies  and  practices  -- 
significantly  closer  to  what  would  be  considered  compliance  with  CSCE  provisions  being 
granted  full  membership  in  the  process.  The  Albanian  reaction  was  that  "preconditions" 
such  as  this  were  unfair,  since  many  governments  had  signed  the  Final  Act  and  then  for 
years  violated  its  provisions.  The  delegation  explained  that  there  was  a  fundamental 
difference  between  the  two  situations.  Albania,  on  the  one  hand,  is  now  trying  to  attain  full 
membership  in  the  CSCE,  since  it  was  not  an  participant  in  the  original  CSCE  negotiations 
by  its  own  choice,  while,  on  the  other  hand,  there  is  no  requirement  to  maintain 
membership  once  that  status  was  attained.  Mention  was  also  made  of  the  extent  to  which 
past  non-implementation  had  restrained  progress  in  the  CSCE  over  the  years.  When  asked 
why  AJbania  declined  to  participate  in  the  Helsinki  process  from  the  beginning,  President 
Alia  described  the  original  Soviet  objectives  for  the  Conference,  which  was  to  legitimize 
its  hold  on  Eastern  Europe.  He  said  that  the  end  of  the  Cold  War  has  made  it  possible 
for  Albania  to  become  a  more  active  player  in  European  affairs. 

On  human  rights  in  Albania,  the  Commission  delegation  questioned  Albanian 
officials  about  political  prisoners,  denial  of  religious  and  minority  rights,  the  lack  of  political 
pluralism  and  the  shooting  of  individuals  attempting  to  flee  across  the  border.  Albanian 
officials  argued  that  reports  in  the  West  of  human  rights  violations  in  Albania  were  either 
the  result  of  misunderstanding  the  specific  situation  in  AJbania  or  foreign  propaganda. 
The  delegation  suggested  that  AJbania  permit  objective  human  rights  organizations,  such 
as  the  International  Helsinki  Federation  and  Amnesty  International,  to  visit  Albania  and 
examine  the  situation  firsthand. 

The  AJbanian  officials  with  whom  the  delegation  met  expressed  agreement  with  the 
steps  toward  democratization  that  are  now  taking  place.  They  detailed  recent  reforms, 
especially  those  eliminating  religious  propaganda  as  a  criminal  offence  and  granting 
Albanian  citizens  permission  to  obtain  a  passport  for  travel  abroad.  Mention  was  made 
as  well  of  electoral  reforms  which  will  allow  more  seats  to  be  contested  by  multiple 
candidates,  although  it  was  argued  that  democratic  decision-making  within  the  Party  made 
tolerance  of  alternative  parties  unnecessary  and  possibly  counter-productive.  This  last  point 
was  repeated  by  university  students,  who  maintained  that  the  large  number  of  parties  in 
Romania  and  elsewhere  only  spawned  confusion.  Kleanthi  Koci,  President  of  the  Supreme 
Court,  also  noted  how  the  number  of  criminal  offenses  for  which  the  death  penalty  could 
be  used  as  a  sentence  has  been  lowered  from  more  than  40  in  the  1950’s  to  11  today.  The 
delegation  noted  that  the  Commission  had  welcomed  the  announcement  of  reforms  and 
expressed  hope  that  they  and  other  needed  reforms  would  be  implemented.  Upon  the 
delegation’s  departure,  the  members  were  given  English-language  translations  of  recently 
adopted  legislative  changes  in  Albania. 


-  9  - 


Hie  absence  of  places  of  worship  was  repeatedly  raised  with  the  Albanians, 
especially  since  some  members  of  the  delegation  wanted  to  go  to  church  on  Sunday,  the 
day  it  arrived.  The  response  was  consistently  that  the  people  don’t  want  places  of  worship, 
and  that  members  of  the  clergy  are  known  in  Albania  for  their  collaboration  with  foreign 
powers.  It  was  acknowledged,  however,  that  there  are  believers  in  Albania,  although  in 
most  cases  these  are  said  to  be  older  people.  While  the  delegation  indeed  did  not  speak 
to  anybody  who  said  that  they  did  wish  to  establish  a  place  a  worship,  it  expressed  extreme 
skepticism  about  the  assertion  that  nobody  exists  who  does,  especially  during  discussions 
with  the  members  of  the  Democratic  Front  for  the  Greek  Minority,  where  Senator 
DeConcini  pointed  out  that  everywhere  else  in  the  world  where  there  are  Greeks,  there 
are  also  Greek  churches.  If  places  of  worship  were  opened,  he  predicted,  people  would 
come. 


On  minority  issues,  the  delegation  raised  concerns  over  allegations  that  members  of 
minority  groups  were  discriminated  against  and,  at  times,  were  forcibly  dispersed  from  their 
native  regions  to  other  parts  of  the  country.  There  were  also  reports  that,  in  the  past, 
parents  could  not  give  their  children  some  Christian  names  common  to  their  ethnic  group. 
Albanian  officials  and  the  members  of  the  Democratic  Front  for  the  Greek  Minority 
denied  these  allegations.  The  members  of  Democratic  Front,  the  delegation  concluded, 
represented  the  Albanian  government  more  than  the  Greek  minority.  The  delegation  was 
informed  that  their  Greek-language  newspaper  did  not  cover  issues  of  special  concern  to 
the  Greek  minority  but  simply  translated  the  Albanian  press  into  Greek.  The  only 
acknowledgement  by  the  Democratic  Front  that  there  have  been  problems  for  Greeks  in 
Albania  was  when  they  reported  that  things  have  improved  for  the  minority  in  recent  years. 

On  foreign  policy,  Albanian  officials  said  that  the  apparent  ending  of  the  Cold  War 
was  the  primary  motive  for  Albania’s  increased  international  activity,  which  included  their 
desire  to  join  the  CSCE  process  and  to  establish  relations  with  both  the  United  States 
and  the  Soviet  Union.  Both  President  Alia  and  Foreign  Minister  Malile  described  past 
Soviet  policies,  especially  the  1968  invasion  of  Czechoslovakia,  as  justification  of  Albania’s 
previous  course,  both  internationally  and  domestically.  They  also  noted  their  increased 
participation  in  cooperative  efforts  among  Balkan  nations,  including  their  decision  to  host 
a  meeting  of  Balkan  foreign  ministers  in  October  1990.  Alia  and  Malile  both  were  highly 
critical  of  Yugoslavia  in  light  of  current  developments  taking  place  in  Kosovo,  the 
overwhelming  majority  of  the  population  of  which  is  ethnically  Albanian.  They  emphasized, 
however,  that  Albania  is  not  and  will  not  make  any  territorial  claims  regarding  Kosovo. 

The  most  visible  and  immediate  diplomatic  problem  in  Albania  is  the  relationship 
between  the  foreign  embassies  in  Tirane  and  the  Albanian  government.  Especially  since 
the  storming  of  the  embassies  in  early  July,  which  diplomats  viewed  as  essentially  a 
spontaneous  event,  this  relationship  has  clearly  worsened.  The  delegation  heard  reports 
about  violations  of  diplomatic  norms,  such  as  Albanian  authorities  entering  diplomatic 


-  10  - 


premises  and  even  the  physical  harassment  of  diplomats,  including  an  Ambassador.  The 
delegation  was  told  that,  after  initially  shooting  at  Albanian  citizens  trying  to  gain  entry  to 
embassies  in  July,  the  authorities  began  to  encourage  and  assist  entry  in  an  apparent 
attempt  to  "suffocate"  the  embassies.  The  Albanian  authorities  also  refused  permission  for 
foreign  air  carriers  to  land  in  Albania  to  deliver  additional  supplies  necessary  to  take  care 
of  the  thousands  of  people  who  did  enter  and  then  stayed  on  embassy  grounds. 

Since  that  time,  the  diplomatic  area  --  essentially  a  street  on  which  most  embassies 
are  located  --  has  been  closed  off  on  either  end  with  gates  to  control  entry,  and  large 
concrete  walls  have  been  erected  around  the  entire  area  and  between  some  embassies 
without  consultation,  with  jagged  pieces  of  broken  glass  attached  to  tops  of  the.  walls  to 
prevent  people  from  climbing  over  them.  Hundreds  of  Albanians,  after  receiving  passports 
wait  outside  the  walled  area  awaiting  permission  to  enter  a  consulate  to  obtain  a  visa. 
At  the  time  of  the  delegation  visit,  only  Greece  and  Italy  were  known  to  be  processing 
visas,  since  other  embassies  were  closed  for  repairs  in  light  of  the  large  number  of  people 
who  had  occupied  their  premises  for  several  days.  The  sudden  decision  to  grant  passports 
has  led  to  a  large  backlog  of  applications  for  visas,  requiring  only  a  select  number  of 
people  to  be  permitted  in  the  consulate  offices  each  day.  The  delegation  was  told  that 
those  waiting  for  visa  processing  are  being  encouraged  by  Albanian  officials  to  blame  the 
foreign  embassies  for  the  problems  they  are  facing  as  a  result. 

The  Commission  delegation  raised  the  problems  facing  foreign  embassies  in  Tirane 
with  Albanian  officials,  especially  in  light  of  the  talks  underway  to  resume  diplomatic 
relations  between  the  United  States  and  Albania.  Chairman  DeConcini  compared  the  wall 
going  up  in  Tirane  to  the  one  coming  down  in  Berlin.  He  also  told  President  Alia  that  he 
hoped  U.S.-  Albanian  relations  will  soon  be  reestablished  but  was  concerned  about  how 
American  diplomats  might  be  treated  in  the  future.  Alia’s  response,  as  well  as  that  of 
other  Albanian  officials,  was  that  the  embassies  were  the  cause  of  the  problems  they  have 
faced  since  July,  especially  to  the  extent  they  encourage  Albanian  citizens  to  leave  the 
country.  They  attributed  all  complaints  and  negative  comments  about  the  situation  in 
AJbania  made  by  the  foreign  embassies  to  reflect  a  prejudice  against  the  country. 


V.  CONCLUSION 

On  August  22,  1990,  the  day  after  the  Commission  visit  to  AJbania  had  concluded, 
the  three  congressional  members  of  the  delegation  --  Chairman  DeConcini,  Senator 
Sarbanes  and  Representative  Moody,  made  the  following  joint  statement: 

"Our  congressional  delegation  went  to  Albania  in  the  context  of  that  country's  desire  to  end 
its  relative  isolation  in  the  world  by  developing  relations  with  the  United  States  of  America 
as  well  as  joining  the  35-member  Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe, 


-  11  - 


known  as  the  CSCE  or  Helsinki  process.  The  purpose  of  this  of  this  3-day  visit  was  to 
move  beyond  simply  welcoming  this  positive  development  by  initiating  a  dialogue  on  CSCE- 
related  issues,  including  human  rights.  We  also  wanted  to  obtain  for  ourselves  a  better 
picture  of  how  the  Albanian  Government’s  policies  and  practices  reflect  the  commitments 
it  would  undertake  if  it  were  to  become  a  full  member  of  the  CSCE. 

"The  Albanian  Government  extended  warm  hospitality  to  us  during  the  entire  course  of 
our  stay.  While  not  all  of  our  requests,  such  as  a  visit  to  a  prison  labor  camp,  were 
granted,  the  program  prepared  for  us  provided  a  good  first  look  at  the  situation  in  Albania, 
and  we  were  able  to  learn  a  great  deal.  Among  many  other  officials,  we  met  with 
President  Ramiz  Alia,  Foreign  Minister  Reis  Malile,  Supreme  Court  chairman  Kleanthi 
Koci,  and  Foto  Cami,  Chairman  of  the  Foreign  Affairs  Permanent  Commission  of  the 
Albanian  Peoples’  Assembly.  We  also  met  with  members  of  the  popular  front 
organization,  university  students  and  a  number  of  cultural  figures,  economists,  journalists, 
foreign  diplomats  and  other  prominent  individuals,  many  of  whom  attended  a  Commission- 
hosted  reception. 

"We  did  not  agree  on  many  issues,  particularly  those  relating  to  human  rights,  but  our 
discussions  were  nevertheless  very  frank  and  open.  We  believe  the  dialogue  we  initiated 
needs  to  be  broadened  and  strengthened.  Albanian  officials  indicated  a  desire  to  end  the 
decades  of  isolation  and  to  develop  better  relations  with  the  United  States. 

"Albania  has  enjoyed  observer  status  at  the  most  recent  meeting  of  the  Helsinki  process, 
beginning  with  the  Human  Dimension  Meeting  which  took  place  in  Copenhagen  in  June. 
The  congressional  delegation  stated  its  continued  support  for  Albanian  observer  status  at 
future  meetings.  Albanian  officials  indicated  their  interest  in  attaining  full  membership  in 
the  CSCE  in  the  near  future. 

"We  expressed  our  agreement  with  that  objective  after  Abania  formally  registers  its 
intention  to  honor  all  existing  CSCE  commitments  and  demonstrates  the  seriousness  of  its 
intentions  by  compliance  with  these  provisions  than  is  now  the  case.  The  Albanians  said 
that  they  would  not  accept  any  conditions  on  membership  beyond  what  had  been  accepted 
by  the  35  member  states. 

"In  this  context,  the  delegation  supported  recent  and  positive  reform  efforts,  including 
greater  freedom  for  Albanian  citizens  to  travel  abroad  and  the  removal  of  religious 
propaganda  as  an  offense  punishable  under  the  criminal  code.  We  expressed  our 
continued  concerns,  however,  over  reports  of  major  human  rights  violations,  including  a 
sizeable  number  of  political  prisoners,  severe  restrictions  on  religious  practices  made 
evident  by  the  absence  of  a  single  functioning  place  of  worship  in  the  country,  the  total 
control  imposed  on  the  Albanian  press,  radio  and  television,  and  certain  restrictions 
imposed  on  minority  rights  for  members  of  the  Greek  and  other  minorities  in  Abania. 


-  12  - 


Finally,  while  there  may  soon  be  increased  possibilities  for  some  government  seats  to  be 
contested  by  more  than  one  candidate,  the  Workers’  Party  of  Albania  which  now  rules  the 
country  shows  no  sign  of  being  willing  to  share  its  current  monopoly  on  political  power 
with  alternative  or  opposition  parties.  Indeed,  it  seems  as  if  no  independent  organizations 
or  groups  of  individuals  with  dissenting  views  are  even  permitted  in  Albania  today. 

"Given  Albania’s  current  level  of  performance  in  these  and  other  areas,  we  are  of  the 
opinion  that,  as  a  full  CSCE  member,  Albania  would  be  glaringly  out  of  step  with  the 
rapidly  developing  process  of  democratization,  political  pluralism,  the  rule  of  law  and  free 
market  economies  that  is  taking  place  throughout  Europe.  We  suggested  that,  in  order 
to  speed  up  the  process  of  democratization  and  to  have  a  clearer,  more  accurate  picture 
of  what  human  rights  problems  exist  in  Albania,  the  Albanian  Government  translate  into 
Albanian  and  make  available  to  the  public  full  texts  of  existing  CSCE  documents,  permit 
existing  human  rights  organizations  from  abroad  to  visit  Albania  and  investigate  alleged 
human  rights  abuses,  and  tolerate  the  formation  of  independent  Helsinki  monitoring  groups 
within  Albania  itself.  Albanian  officials  expressed  a  willingness  to  consider  these 
suggestions. 

"In  the  meantime,  we  hope  the  dialogue  we  have  initiated  during  our  visit  can  be 
broadened,  expanded  and  intensified.  This,  we  feel,  would  be  an  important  step  in 
promoting  mutual  understanding  between  the  Albanian  and  American  peoples." 


-  13  - 


35-860  -  90  -  2 


I.  OBJECTIVES 


VISIT  TO  BULGARIA 
August  22,  1990 


The  last  time  the  Commission  visited  Bulgaria  was  in  April  1990,  just  prior  to  the 
first  free  elections  that  country  held  since  World  War  II.  Given  the  degree  of  repression 
under  Communist  rule,  serious  questions  arose  at  that  time  as  to  how  well  Bulgaria  would 
proceed  in  developing  a  democratic  political  system  and  a  pluralistic  society.  While  the 
subsequent  elections  were  free,  they  were  nevertheless  tainted  by  irregularities  which  made 
them  less  fair  than  was  hoped. 

The  major  objective  of  the  visit  to  Bulgaria,  therefore,  was  first  to  underscore  the 
Commission  support  for  Bulgarian  efforts  to  implement  major  political  and  economic 
reform  and,  second,  to  discuss  persistent  problem  areas  such  as  restoring  the  rights  of 
members  of  the  Turkish  minority  and  opening  to  public  scrutiny  information  on  the  past 
activities  of  the  Bulgarian  secret  police. 

The  delegation’s  schedule  precluded  the  longer  stay  in  Bulgaria  that  these  issues 
deserved,  but,  in  its  meetings  with  the  President,  Zhelyu  Zhelev,  and  the  Prime  Minister, 
Andrei  Lukanov,  it  was  able  to  have  a  useful  dialogue  on  issues  of  concern  with  the 
leading  political  authorities  in  the  country. 


II.  THE  CONTEXT 

Following  the  November  9,  1989,  ouster  of  long-time  Communist  Party  chief  Todor 
Zhivkov,  Bulgaria’s  new  communist  leadership  instituted  sweeping  political  and  economic 
reforms.  Changes  made  following  Zhivkov’s  removal  have  included:  repeal  of  legislation 
used  to  imprison  dissidents;  the  release  of  political  prisoners;  the  restoration  of  the  rights 
of  ethnic  Turks  and  other  minorities;  greater  openness  regarding  travel  and  emigration; 
a  freer  flow  of  information;  renunciation  of  the  Communist  Party’s  leading  role;  and  the 
holding  of  multi-party  elections  which  have  resulted  in  a  new  parliament. 

During  the  first  four  months  of  1990,  the  ruling  Communist  Party  (which  in 
February  changed  its  name  to  the  Bulgarian  Socialist  Party)  engaged  in  roundtable  talks 
with  the  rapidly  growing  opposition  UDF  (Union  of  Democratic  Forces).  On  March  12, 
they  reached  agreement  on  the  peaceful  transition  to  a  democratic  system,  establishing  a 
parliament  elected  by  "free  and  competitive  elections,"  and  "the  guaranteeing  of  equality 
of  all  forms  of  ownership".  On  March  30,  the  roundtable  reached  further  agreements 
designed  to  underpin  Bulgaria’s  transition  to  a  parliamentary  democracy  through  a  new 
electoral  law  and  the  creation  of  political  parties. 


-  15  - 


On  June  10  and  17,  the  first  freely  contested  elections  in  post-War  Bulgaria  were 
held.  These  elections  can  best  be  summed  up  as  having  been  free  and  democratic,  but  not 
completely  fair  (with  many  reports  of  voter  intimidation,  especially  in  the  countryside). 
The  Bulgarian  Socialist  Party  (BSP)  won  211  out  of  400  seats  in  Parliament.  The  main 
opposition  group  --  the  UDF  --  won  144  seats  and  the  ethnic-Turkish  based  "Movement 
for  Rights  and  Freedoms"  won  23  seats. 

Bulgaria  has  continued  to  travel  a  rocky  road  to  democracy  since  the  elections.  On 
July  6,  for  example,  Bulgarian  President  Petur  Mladenov,  who  had  replaced  Zhivkov  last 
November,  resigned  over  charges  that  he  had  threatened  to  use  tanks  to  disperse  an  anti- 
Government  protest  last  December.  There  have  been  protests  and  strikes  targeting,  among 
other  things,  the  slow  pace  of  reforms,  electoral  fraud,  price-hikes  and  pollution.  These 
have  diminished  following  the  August  1  election  by  the  new  Parliament  (the  Grand 
National  Assembly)  of  opposition  leader  Zhelyu  Zhelev  to  Bulgaria’s  Presidency,  breaking 
a  3-week  deadlock  in  which  there  were  six  rounds  of  voting.  Until  Zhelev’s  election,  the 
opposition  (UDF)  had  steadfastly  resisted  Socialist  Prime  Minister  Andrei  Lukanov’s  calls 
for  UDF  participation  in  a  coalition  government.  Since  his  election,  President  Zhelev  has 
continued  to  favor  a  "cabinet  of  experts"  and  not  a  coalition  government. 

The  new  Bulgarian  government  faces  numerous  challenges  in  transforming  Bulgaria 
into  a  democratic,  pluralistic  state  with  a  market-oriented  economy.  Various  economic 
reforms  are  being  proposed  to  facilitate  Bulgaria’s  transition  from  a  centrally  planned 
economy  to  a  market  economy,  including  increasing  economic  independence  of  enterprises, 
freeing  prices  from  state  control,  and  offering  options  for  private,  cooperative  and  state 
ownership  of  property. 

Bulgaria  faces  a  growing  economic  crisis,  however,  the  result  of  a  centralized 
command  economy  dominated  by  decades  of  inefficiency,  corruption  and  shortages.  The 
economy  is  stagnant,  with  declining  industrial  production,  shortages  of  commodities,  rising 
prices  and  growing  unemployment.  Bulgaria  has  suspended  payments  on  its  10.2  billion 
dollar  foreign  debt.  Also,  the  Soviets  have  cut  back  on  crude  oil  shipments  to  Bulgaria  and 
fuel  prices  have  risen  sharply.  Hard  currency  reserves  have  collapsed  from  one  billion 
dollars  in  January  to  less  than  200  million  dollars  at  the  present  time.  Adhering  to  the 
Iraq  embargo  will  only  increase  strains  on  the  economy.  Iraq  owes  an  estimated  one 
billion  dollars  to  Bulgaria.  Sofia  was  expecting  to  convert  part  of  these  loans  into  oil. 
Bulgaria  had  signed  a  contract  with  Iraq  for  the  supply  of  five  million  tons  spread  over 
4  years. 

Bulgaria  has  applied  to  join  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF)  and  the  World 
Bank,  and  in  May  signed  a  10-year  agreement  on  trade  and  economic  cooperation  with  the 
European  Community. 


-  16  - 


In  December  1989,  the  Bulgarian  government  restored  the  rights  of  ethnic  Turks 
and  other  Muslim  minorities  (approx.  15  percent  of  the  population),  reversing  Zhivkov’s 
notorious  assimilation  campaign.  Since  then,  conditions  have  generally  improved  --  Turks 
are  again  allowed  to  use  their  own  names,  speak  their  language  etc.,  and  they  now  have 
some  voice  in  Parliament  (foremost,  23  representatives  of  Ahmet  Dogan’s  ethnic-Turkish 
based  "Rights  and  Freedoms  Movement").  Also,  nearly  half  of  the  ethnic  Turks  who  left 
Bulgaria  in  last  summer’s  exodus  have  returned. 

Despite,  or  perhaps  because  of  these  improvements,  there  have  been  tensions 
between  the  Turkish  minority  and  some  ethnic  Bulgarian  nationalists,  who  fear  ethnic 
Turkish  resurgence  and  who  have  recently  staged  strikes  against  the  presence  of  "Turks  in 
Parliament." 


III.  THE  VISIT 

The  delegation  arrived  in  Bulgaria  late  in  the  evening  of  August  21.  Its  first  activity 
was  a  spontaneous  one:  delegation  members  visited  an  area  near  the  National  Assembly 
in  the  center  of  Sofia  where  demonstrators  had  gathered  to  voice  dissatisfaction  with  the 
pace  of  change  and,  more  specifically,  the  continued  existence  of  symbols  of  the  former 
Communist  regime  on  official  buildings.  When  demonstrators  saw  from  a  considerable 
distance  members  of  the  delegation  inside  the  police  barricades,  they  mistakenly  took  them 
for  Assembly  members  and  angrily  shouted  "Communist!  Communist!"  However,  when  the 
delegation  approached  the  crowd,  which  suddenly  realized  it  was  a  group  of  Americans, 
chants  turned  immediately  to  an  enthusiastic  and  welcoming  "U.S.A.!,  U.S.A.!"  --  a  sign  of 
the  popularity  which  the  United  States  is  now  enjoying  in  Bulgaria. 

On  the  morning  of  August  22,  after  a  briefing  on  the  current  situation  in  Bulgaria 
by  the  U.S.  Charge  d’  Affaires,  the  Commission  first  met  with  President  Zhelyu  Zhelev  and 
some  of  his  chief  advisors.  Zhelev  began  with  an  overview  of  efforts  to  further 
democratize  the  political  system  and  marketize  the  economy  in  the  post-election  period. 
He  called  political  changes  to  date  irreversible,  adding  that  the  only  danger  is  that  future 
efforts  at  change  might  not  take  place  in  peaceful  channels.  While  he  said  he  would  not 
use  the  Polish  term  "shock  therapy,"  he  said  that  radical  economic  reform  would  take  place 
as  quickly  as  possible.  The  President  expressed  gratitude  for  U.S.  interest  and  help  in 
making  democratization  possible  in  Bulgaria. 


-  17  - 


On  economic  issues,  Zhelev  gave  a  bleak  picture  of  the  economic  situation  in 
Bulgaria,  made  worse  by  the  Persian  Gulf  crisis.  The  Soviet  Union  had  reduced  its 
deliveries  to  Bulgaria,  and  Iraq  owed  Bulgaria  1.2  billion  dollars,  which  was  to  be  paid  with 
oil.  He  said  that  this  situation,  along  with  a  bad  harvest  this  year  threatened  economic 
reform  and  could  lead  to  major  shortages  as  winter  approached.  He  reported  that 
Bulgaria  was  requesting  assistance  from  the  United  States,  the  United  Nations  and  the 
European  Community.  The  delegation  said  that  it  would  pursue  specific  requests  for 
assistance  from  the  United  States.  When  it  cautioned  that  the  United  States  had  some 
economic  difficulties  which  might  limit  the  extent  of  U.S.  assistance,  Zhelev  remarked  that 
he  wished  Bulgaria  would  have  the  economic  problems  of  the  United  States. 

When  asked  about  how  the  new  government  was  dealing  with  the  secret  police  of 
the  Communist  regime,  President  Zhelev  committed  himself  to  expose  past  crimes  that 
were  previously  covered  up.  The  Socialist  Party  did  not  oppose  such  efforts,  it  was  added, 
but  did  at  times  obstruct  them.  Control  of  the  secret  police  was  described  as  within  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  President  as  a  national  defense  issue. 

The  meeting  with  Prime  Minister  Andrei  Lukanov  immediately  followed  the  meeting 
with  President  Zhelev.  Lukanov  shared  Zhelev’s  view  that  the  changes  which  had  taken 
place  in  Bulgaria  since  late  1989  were  irreversible.  He  described  the  major  difference 
between  his  own  Socialist  Party  and  the  Union  of  Democratic  Forces  as  centering  on 
whether  or  not  socialism  would  be  one  of  the  pillars  of  Bulgarian  democracy.  He  said  that 
within  the  Socialist  Party  the  remnants  of  Stalinism  still  exist,  but  they  were  very  weak  and 
losing  ground  every  day. 

Like  Zhelev,  Lukanov  also  stressed  the  economic  plight  which  Bulgaria  now  faces, 
including  a  heavy  external  debt,  on  which  it  had  to  stop  payment,  and  which  was  now 
made  worse  by  the  Persian  Gulf  crisis.  He  also  said  that  the  disintegration  of  the  East 
bloc  trading  organization  -  the  Council  on  Mutual  Economic  Assistance  (also  known  as 
CMEA  or  COMECON)  -  had  disrupted  the  Bulgarian  economy. 

The  discussion  then  turned  to  the  situation  of  the  Turkish  minority.  Prime  Minister 
Lukanov  maintained  that  all  measures  directed  against  the  "Muslim  population"  in  1984 
and  1985  had  been  abolished,  and  the  main  issue  now  concerns  the  legal  procedure  by 
which  those  who  want  to  return  to  their  Muslim  name  can  do  so.  He  added,  however,  that 
some  Muslims  wanted  to  retain  their  new  Slavic  names,  as  they  felt  themselves  fully 
integrated  into  Bulgarian  society.  Lukanov  also  said  that  there  were  still  popular  fears  in 
Bulgaria  about  Turkey,  and  worries  that  neither  the  USSR  nor  the  United  States,  the 
United  Nations  nor  anybody  else  would  come  to  Bulgaria’s  aid  if  the  country  were  attacked 
by  Turkey.  He  said  that  he  would  soon  visit  Turkish  President  Ozal,  however,  who  was 
a  close  friend  and  with  whom  he  hoped  to  improve  relations. 


-  18  - 


A  wide  range  of  other  issues  was  also  raised  with  Lukanov.  Regarding  the  activities 
of  the  secret  police,  he  said  that  Bulgaria  would  cooperate  with  foreign  governments  on 
specific  cases  involving  the  Bulgarian  secret  police,  such  as  on  the  famous  "umbrella  case" 
with  British  officials;  that  he  doubted  Bulgarian  complicity  in  the  1981  assassination  attempt 
on  Pope  John  Paul  II;  and  that  the  files  of  the  secret  police  would  likely  be  opened,  but 
only  after  consideration  was  first  given  to  the  implications  of  specific  files  on  national 
security  concerns.  The  Prime  Minister  also  acknowledged  severe  environmental  problems 
in  the  country,  but  claimed  that  clean-up  efforts  such  as  closing  the  worst  polluting  plants 
would  be  difficult  from  an  economic  point  of  view.  On  Balkan  cooperation,  Lukanov 
expressed  concern  over  increased  instability  in  both  Yugoslavia  and  Albania,  mentioning 
specifically  the  resurfacing  of  the  Macedonian  question.  He  commented  that  Albanians 
are  known  to  be  the  most  stubborn  among  stubborn  peoples,  and  that  the  unique  form 
of  totalitarianism  in  Albania  will  be  a  problem.  He  added,  however,  that  granting  the 
Albanian  request  to  become  a  full  member  of  the  CSCE  process  was  one  important  way 
to  help  those  within  Albania  who  are  working  for  reform. 


-  19  - 


. 


VISIT  TO  CZECHOSLOVAKIA 
August  22-23,  1990 


I.  OVERVIEW  AND  OBJECTIVES 

Chairman  DeConcini’s  visit  to  Czechoslovakia  focused  on  two  concerns.  First,  the 
Commission  wanted  to  discuss  Czechoslovak  initiatives  within  the  Helsinki  process;  second, 
Chairman  DeConcini  wanted  to  follow-up  on  environmental  questions  which  Czech  Premier 
Pithart  had  raised  during  his  visit  to  Washington  earlier  this  year. 

The  Czechoslovakia’s  new  government  has  been  particularly  active  with  respect  to 
the  Helsinki  process  for  several  reasons.  Many  of  Prague’s  new  leaders  come  out  of  the 
human  rights  community,  and  they  believe  that  the  Helsinki  process  directly  contributed 
to  the  democratic  "velvet  revolution"  which  took  place  in  Czechoslovakia  last  November 
and  December.  These  new  leaders  also  see  the  Helsinki  process  as  a  route  of  integration 
into  Europe  and  a  possible  source  of  security  guarantees  outside  the  Warsaw  Pact. 

The  Commission  also  focused  on  environmental  issues  during  its  visit  to  Czechos¬ 
lovakia.  Environmental  issues,  part  of  Basket  II  in  the  Helsinki  process,  have  taken  on  a 
new  prominence  now  that  many  traditional  human  rights  issues  are  being  resolved. 
Moreover,  it  has  become  increasingly  clear  that  environmental  problems  do  not  recognize 
national  boarders.  This  is  an  area  where  multilateral  efforts  must  be  undertaken  if  the 
participating  States  are  to  meet  with  success. 


II.  CONTEXT  OF  THE  VISIT 

Prelude  to  Revolution: 

■  Czechoslovakia’s  human  rights  record  was  a  relatively  poor  one.  The  communist 
authorities  paid  lip  service  to  the  concepts  of  perestroika  and  glasnost  without 
implementing  them. 

■  Nevertheless,  in  1988-89,  independent  opposition  activities  such  as  demonstrations, 
publishing,  and  religious  activism  grew,  in  spite  of  increasing  repression. 

■  On  17  November,  students  attempted  to  hold  an  independent  demonstration  in 
Prague.  The  authorities’  response  was  particularly  brutal,  fueling  rumors  that  a 
student  had  been  clubbed  to  death.  Although  the  rumor  turned  out  to  be  untrue, 
the  ruthless  police  actions  on  the  17th  triggered  massive  protest  demonstrations;  the 
demonstrations  grew  each  day,  and  each  day  spread  to  more  cities. 


-  21  - 


On  19  November,  a  new  group  calling  itself  Civic  Forum  emerged,  claiming  to 
represent  virtually  every  opposition  group  in  Czechoslovakia.  The  Czechoslovak 
government  responded  to  the  demonstrations  and  to  the  new  group  by  stalling, 
offering  half-measure  reforms.  Finally,  on  27  November  Civic  Forum  organized  a 
2-hour  work  stoppage  which  paralyzed  the  country,  proving  it  was  a  force  with  which 
to  be  reckoned.  The  work  stoppage  is  estimated  to  have  involved  upwards  of  six 
million  people  and  75%  of  the  work  force. 


The  First  Wave  of  Political  Changes: 

The  Communist  leadership  in  Prague  continued  to  make  promises  without  delivering  during 
the  first  half  of  December;  but  by  the  second  half  of  December,  after  Civic  Forum 
threatened  additional  work  stops,  opposition  demands  began  to  be  met.  The  following 
wave  of  reform  was  subsequently  implemented  in  the  first  few  months  after  the  "Velvet 
Revolution": 

■  the  Federal  Assembly  voted  on  29  November  to  remove  the  "leading  role  of  the 
Communist  Party"  language  from  the  Constitution; 

■  all  known  political  prisoners  were  released; 

■  Marxism-Leninism  was  removed  as  a  required  course  from  school  curricula; 

■  travel  restrictions  have  been  ended  (open  borders); 

■  control  over  the  People’s  Militia  was  transferred  from  the  Party  to  the  Government; 

■  Communist  President  Gustav  Husak  stepped  down  on  10  December  and  Vaclav 
Havel  was  voted  to  replace  him  on  29  December; 

■  the  Federal  Assembly  on  12  December  voted  to  hold  former  General  Secretary 
Jakes  responsible  for  police  brutality  on  17  November; 

■  on  12  December  the  Federal  Assembly  passed  a  resolution  condemning  the  1968 
Soviet-led  invasion  of  Czechoslovakia; 

■  Alexander  Dubcek,  leader  of  the  1968  Prague  Spring,  was  elected  Chairman  of  the 
Federal  Assembly  on  28  December; 

■  newly  appointed  Foreign  Minister  Jiri  Dienstbier  announced  that  the  "temporary" 
1968  agreement  allowing  Soviet  troops  to  remain  in  Czechoslovakia  was  invalid 
because  it  was  agreed  to  under  duress; 

■  approximately  40  Czechoslovak  ambassadors  were  recalled; 

■  the  Politburo  announced  it  would  end  the  nomenklatura  system  of  reserving  certain 
jobs  for  party  functionaries; 

■  a  Foreign  Minister  spokesperson  announced  on  9  January  that  Soviet  troops  should 
withdraw  from  Czechoslovakia  by  the  end  of  the  year  (subsequently  extended  to 
mid-1991); 

■  the  secret  police  was  abolished  on  1  February. 


-  22  - 


The  New  Government’s  Five-Point  Program,  announced  by  Prime  Minister  Calf  a  on  3  July: 

■  Improve  the  state  administrative  system,  including  measures  to  improve  relations 
between  the  central  government  and  local  districts  and  between  the  Czech  and 
Slovak  Republics; 

■  Effect  a  transition  from  a  centrally  planned  economy  to  a  market  economy,  while 
stabilizing  the  economy  and  keeping  inflation  and  unemployment  under  control; 

■  Create  a  healthy  environment  and  reduce  fuel  and  energy  consumption; 

■  Defend  human  rights; 

■  Draw  Czechoslovakia  back  into  the  community  of  European  nations. 

Key  Domestic  Political  Problems  Which  Remain: 

■  Who  will  really  control  the  secret  police,  and  how? 

■  How  can  you  maintain  accountability  of  the  former  leadership  (necessary  to  establish 
the  credibility  for  the  new  leadership),  without  degenerating  into  a  cycle  of  revenge? 

■  How  can  people  who  have  been  forcibly  kept  out  of  politics  for  four  decades  learn 
how  to  establish  political  parties  and,  ultimately,  govern  a  country? 

■  Can  relations  between  the  country’s  various  ethnic  groups,  particularly  the  Czechs 
and  the  Slovaks,  be  reflected  in  a  constitutional  framework  that  is  acceptable  to  all 
parties? 


Helsinki  Process 

The  new  Czechoslovak  government  has  made  the  CSCE  process  one  of  its  foreign 
policy  priorities,  seeing  in  it  a  route  of  integration  into  Europe  and  a  possible  source  of 
security  guarantees  outside  the  Warsaw  Pact.  At  the  Copenhagen  Meeting  in  June, 
Czechoslovak  Foreign  Minister  Dienstbier  proposed  Prague  as  a  site  for  a  future  CSCE 
secretariat;  Secretary  Baker  has  expressed  some  support  for  this.  In  Vienna,  the 
Czechoslovaks  have  sought  to  play  a  mediating  role  in  facilitating  preparations  for  the  Paris 
summit  (tentatively  set  for  November)  and  the  CSBMs,  as  well  as  to  remind  the  conference 
of  the  importance  of  the  larger  process. 

From  a  security  standpoint,  Czechoslovakia  sees  the  Helsinki  process  as  capable  of 
filling  the  growing  void  left  by  the  virtual  dissolution  of  the  Warsaw  Pact  and  the  retreat 
of  the  Soviet  Union.  Foreign  Minister  Dienstbier  has  quipped  that,  "there’s  nothing  wrong 
with  NATO  —  except  that  we’re  not  in  it."  Czechoslovak  leaders  have  indicated  that 
they’re  not  adverse  to  remaining  in  the  Warsaw  Pact,  but  at  the  same  time  it  is  clear  that 
their  vision  for  the  Warsaw  Pact  is  so  different  that  the  Pact  would  remain  the  same  in 


-  23  - 


name  only.  Their  primary  concern  is  that  East  European  countries,  including  the  Soviet 
Union,  not  be  isolated  outside  of  a  NATO  security  structure. 

From  a  human  rights  standpoint,  it  must  be  remembered  that  President  Havel 
comes  to  his  new  political  prominence  as  a  former  dissident  and  member  of  the  (formerly 
outlawed)  Czechoslovak  Helsinki  Committee  and  the  Charter  77  human  rights  movement, 
as  does  his  Foreign  Minister,  Jiri  Dienstbier;  his  Ambassador  to  the  United  States,  Rita 
Klimova;  and  host  of  other  now  high-ranking  government  and  parliamentary  officials.  In 
the  human  rights  sphere,  Czechoslovakia’s  new  leaders  have  personally  seen  a  direct  cause- 
and-effect  relationship  between  the  reforms  which  have  been  achieved  in  Eastern  Europe 
and  the  Helsinki  process. 

At  the  Copenhagen  Meeting  of  the  Conference  on  the  Human  Dimension, 
Czechoslovakia  named  Dr.  Jiri  Hajek  —  Foreign  Minister  during  the  Prague  Spring  and  a 
man  of  impeccable  human  rights  credentials  --  as  head  of  their  delegation.  It  was  at  this 
meeting  that  a  new  negotiating  group  emerged  called  the  "Pentagonale."  Consisting  of 
Czechoslovakia,  Hungary,  Yugoslavia,  Italy,  and  Austria,  these  neutral  and  non-aligned, 
NATO,  and  Warsaw  Pact  countries  share  a  set  of  borders  and  many  common  interests. 
So  far,  their  coordination  has  been  limited  to  specific  areas  of  interest:  in  Copenhagen, 
it  was  minority  rights;  elsewhere,  they  are  coordinating  road  management  and  other 
transportation  concerns.  It  remains  to  be  seen  how  this  relationship  will  evolve.  To  date, 
these  five  have  not  coordinated  their  efforts  in  the  military  talks  in  Vienna. 

The  new  Czechoslovak  leadership  has  decided  to  take  on  an  active  role  in  all  areas 
of  CSCE  and  has  proposed  several  new  initiatives.  For  example,  while  visiting  the  Council 
of  Europe  in  Strasbourg  in  May,  President  Havel  called  for  a  "Helsinki  zone"  from 
Vladivostok  to  Vancouver  that  would  overcome  the  division  of  Europe  and  promote 
disarmament.  At  the  Vienna  Meeting  on  Confidence-  and  Security-Building  Measures 
(CSBMs),  Czechoslovakia  put  forward  an  ambitious  initiative  for  a  European  Security 
Council  leading  eventually  to  European  federation.  When  most  Western  countries  rejected 
the  idea  as  overly  ambitious,  the  Czechoslovaks  dropped  the  more  long-range  provisions 
and  enlisted  the  support  of  the  GDR  and  Poland.  They  then  twice  convened  all  the 
ambassadors  from  CSCE  countries  in  Prague  to  lobby  for  the  initiative  prior  to  the 
convening  of  the  preparatory  conference  in  July. 


The  Economic  Front: 

•  Prior  to  WWII,  Czechoslovakia  had  one  of  the  strongest  industrial  economies  in  the 
world.  Although,  like  elsewhere  in  Eastern  Europe,  Communist  mismanagement  has 
taken  its  toll,  the  economy  in  Czechoslovakia  is  relatively  better  off  than  in  most  of 
its  neighboring  socialist  states. 


-  24  - 


At  the  end  of  February,  the  Czechoslovak  government  passed  the  first  package  of 
legislation  aimed  at  laying  the  foundation  for  a  transition  to  a  free  market  economy. 
But  shortly  after  the  revolution,  two  schools  of  competing  thought  emerged 
regarding  the  degree  and  pace  of  economic  reform:  a  group  of  radical  reformers 
led  by  Vaclav  Klaus  advocating  shock  therapy  on  the  one  hand,  and  another  group 
led  by  Valtr  Komarek  advocating  gradual  reform  on  the  other.  After  the  June 
elections,  Komarek  left  the  government  and  the  signs  indicate  a  more  rapid  pace 
of  reform  will  be  pursued. 

At  a  recent  meeting  of  the  Eastern  trading  organization  "CMEA,"  Czechoslovak 
Finance  Minister  Klaus  stated  that  he  saw  no  reason  for  the  continuation  of  the 
organization.  At  that  meeting,  it  was  decided  the  countries  would  begin  trading 
among  themselves  on  a  dollar  basis. 

Czechoslovakia’s  economic  priorities  now  include  raising  prices  to  bring  them  closer 
to  production  costs  and  relieving  the  state  of  huge  subsidies;  breaking  up  over¬ 
sized  enterprises,  offering  some  of  them  for  sale;  moving  towards  a  convertible 
Czechoslovak  koruna  (crown)  in  1991;  and  decentralizing  economic  decision-making 
to  the  republic  and  local  level.  At  the  same  time,  the  government  wants  keep 
unemployment  and  inflation  under  control. 

In  implementing  its  reforms,  Czechoslovakia  must  grapple  with  the  same  problems 
of  transition  that  exist  elsewhere  in  the  region:  how  to  privatize  the  state-owned 
industry,  and  what  to  do  with  the  nomenklatura  (communist  party-appointed 
bureaucracy). 


III.  MEETINGS 

Meeting  with  Deputy  Foreign  Minister  Zdenek  Matejka 

Deputy  Foreign  Minister  and  current  Warsaw  Pact  Secretary  General  Zdenek 
Matejka  briefed  the  delegation  on  efforts  to  dismantle  the  military  structures  of  the 
Warsaw  Pact.  He  described  the  task  of  the  Warsaw  Pact  is  to  dismantle  its  structures,  but 
noted  that  differences  exist  on  the  scale  and  timetable  for  this  process.  Minister  Matejka 
believes  that  the  Pact  will  be  successfully  transformed,  but  added  that  Czechoslovakia 
would  support  the  continued  existence  of  the  Warsaw  Pact  if  transformation  was  not 
possible. 

Minister  Matejka  said  the  Helsinki  process  as  "the  most  important  thing  in  Europe." 
This  view  is  reflected  in  the  Czechoslovak  proposals  for  a  new  European  security  structure 
and  for  placing  a  CSCE  secretariat  in  Prague.  Matejka  reassured  the  delegation  that 
NATO  will  continue  to  have  a  role  in  a  restructured  Europe,  and  conceded  that  problems 
could  arise  in  a  crisis  if  any  new  European  security  system  required  consensus. 


-  25  - 


He  also  admitted  that  he  did  not  know  what  might  be  done  should  aggression  arise  within 
the  nations  which  were  part  of  any  new  security  system.  Czechoslovakia’s  primary  concern 
is  that  the  bloc-to-bloc  system  which  characterized  former  East-West  relations  be  replaced. 
In  the  current  climate,  things  which  Czechoslovakia  had  formerly  rejected,  such  as  a 
conflict  resolution  mechanism  with  "obligatory  jurisdiction,"  might  be  possible. 

The  Minister  stated  that  the  pending  disappearance  of  the  GDR  had  created 
problems  within  the  Pact,  as  those  weapons  which  had  been  assigned  to  the  GDR 
according  to  previous  agreements  now  had  to  be  redistributed.  While  Czechoslovakia  is 
not  interested  in  a  higher  quota,  Bulgaria  wants  an  additional  1,500  tanks  to  protect  itself 
against  what  is  seen  as  a  Turkish  threat,  and  the  Hungarians  feel  that  the  limits  previously 
set  for  them  had  generally  been  too  low.  Matejka  was  unsure  of  the  Soviet  position  on 
reallocation  of  the  limits,  and  concluded  that  issues  unresolved  by  the  time  of  the  Paris 
summit  would  simply  have  to  wait  for  Helsinki  II. 

With  respect  to  Albanian  participation  in  the  CSCE  process,  Matejka  affirmed  that 
Czechoslovakia  has  included  Albania  in  discussions  concerning  a  new  European  security 
system.  Although  full  membership  for  Albania  in  the  CSCE  process  is  not  warranted,  the 
Minister  argued  that  observer  status  is  most  appropriate. 


Meeting  with  Josef  Vavrousek, 

Minister  of  the  Federal  Commission  for  the  Environment 

Josef  Vavrousek,  Minister,  Federal  Commission  for  the  Environment,  presented  the 
delegation  with  a  parade  of  horribles  as  he  recounted  the  state  of  the  Czechoslovak 
environment.  He  indicated  that  a  high  priority  of  the  new  government  was  to  identify 
possible  sources  of  assistance  to  fix  existing  damage,  as  well  as  to  gain  the  know-how  to 
avoid  similar  problems  from  reoccurring. 

Vavrousek  freely  admitted  that  Czechoslovakia  created  pollution  which  affected  its 
neighbors.  He  specifically  indicated  that  Czechoslovakia  exports  water  pollution  via  the 
Elbe  river  to  the  Baltic  region  and  to  air  pollution  throughout  Europe,  including  acid  rain 
in  Finland  and  Sweden.  He  also  referred  to  Hungarian  concerns  about  potential 
environmental  problems  which  completion  of  the  Gabcikova-Nagymoros  dam  project  would 
cause,  and  Austrian  allegations  that  Czechoslovak  nuclear  power  stations  were  not  safe. 
These  examples  underscored  Minister  Vavrousek’s  assertion  that  environmental  problems 
cannot  be  solved  by  one  country  alone,  but  require  trans-border  efforts. 


-  26  - 


Vavrousek  described  ground  water  pollution  and  other  damage  caused  by  practices 
of  Soviet  troops  stationed  in  his  country,  but  indicated  Soviet-caused  pollution  constituted 
perhaps  only  five  percent  of  the  total  environmental  problem,  and  that  Czechoslovaks  were 
responsible  for  the  remainder.  Vavrousek  stated  that  the  Soviets  in  principle  agree  they 
should  pay  for  the  damage  they  had  caused,  but  generally  claim  environmental  damage 
existed  prior  to  Soviet  occupation  of  various  sites. 

Vavrousek  stated  that  the  federal  government  was  attempting  to  find  a  new  division 
of  powers  for  decision  making  concerning  the  environment.  The  federal  government  now 
will  have  three  primary  responsibilities:  1)  the  drafting  of  environmental  laws  and 
regulations  (which  are  equally  applicable  to  both  republics  and  compatible  with  EC 
standards),  2)  the  formulation  of  an  overall  environmental  policy  for  the  entire  country 
compatible  with  social  and  economic  policies,  and  3)  international  cooperation.  Issues  not 
falling  in  these  three  areas  would  be  the  responsibility  of  the  individual  republics. 

The  Minister  voiced  his  hopes  that  American  firms  and  Czechoslovak  enterprises 
would  cooperate  in  clean  up  efforts.  However,  lack  of  specific  legislation  concerning  joint 
ventures  and  a  lack  of  hard  currency  were  inhibiting  such  cooperation. 


Meeting  with  Jaroslav  Sabata, 

Czech  Minister  without  Portfolio 

The  delegation  met  with  Jaroslav  Sabata,  Minister  without  Portfolio  of  the  Czech 
Republic,  who  spoke  primarily  in  his  capacity  as  chairman  of  the  Preparatory  Committee 
of  the  Helsinki  Citizen’s  Assembly  (HCA),  a  private  organization  which  will  be  formally 
founded  at  an  international  meeting  in  October. 

Minister  Sabata  admitted  that  he  was  in  a  bit  of  a  paradoxical  position,  serving  as 
a  high  government  official,  while  at  the  same  time  working  for  a  "private  organization" 
concerned  with  the  Helsinki  process.  Nevertheless,  he  indicated  that  such  paradoxes  are 
consistent  with  the  times.  Sabata  indicated  that  he  will  not  serve  in  a  HCA  leadership 
position  after  the  October  meeting. 

Sabata  described  the  HCA  as  a  place  for  private  citizens  to  meet  and  participate 
in  political  life.  The  HCA  will  have  close  contact  with  other  Helsinki-oriented  groups, 
including  the  Czechoslovak  Helsinki  Committee.  However,  unlike  the  Czechoslovak 
Helsinki  Committee,  the  HCA  will  not  limit  its  focus  to  human  rights  questions,  but  will 
address  all  aspects  of  the  Helsinki  process.  The  HCA  is  particularly  interested  in 
developing  regional  cooperation  with  other  like-minded  groups  from  other  countries. 


-  27  - 


Sabata  also  addressed  the  issue  of  Slovak-Czech  relations,  which  he  described  as 
having  the  potential  to  create  a  crisis.  Both  the  Czech  and  Slovak  governments  agreed 
that  most  authority  should  be  vested  in  the  republic  governments,  but  Sabata  believes  that 
the  Slovak  government  had  moved  too  quickly  on  the  issue.  Sabata  estimated  that  at  most 
only  20%  of  Slovaks  favored  independence  and  called  Federal  Prime  Minister  Calfa  and 
Federal  Assembly  Chairman  Alexander  Dubcek  (both  Slovaks)  committed  federalists. 
Sabata  also  noted  that  other  groups  in  and  with  connections  to  Czechoslovakia,  such  as 
various  ethnic  Germans,  now  have  agendas. 


Meeting  with  Sasa  Vondra, 

Senior  Foreign  Policy  Advisor  to  President  Havel 

Presidential  Foreign  Policy  advisor  Sasa  Vondra  opened  the  discussion  with 
consideration  of  domestic  political  issues.  Vondra  speculated  that  small  groups  would 
leave  the  Forum  for  their  own  political  organizations.  As  a  result,  Civic  Forum  would 
become  more  like  an  American-style  political  party,  with  a  broad  base  and  relatively  weak 
party  discipline.  Vondra  said  he  would  personally  favor  this  development. 

Vondra  expects  that  local  elections  conducted  in  November  will  be  by  majoritarian 
system,  and  that  as  a  consequence  party  influence  will  be  lessened.  He  did  not  believe 
that  the  96%  voter  turn-out  witnessed  in  the  June  elections  would  be  repeated.  Vondra 
hopes  that  the  Civic  Forum  structure  will  be  changed  before  the  local  elections,  to  give  the 
political  movement  more  direction  from  the  center  and  a  central  staff  capable  of 
supporting  local  Civic  Forum  organizations. 

Questioned  about  the  so-called  "Pentagonale”  group  (Austria,  Hungary,  Czecho¬ 
slovakia,  Yugoslavia,  and  Italy),  Vondra  assured  the  delegation  that  this  new  negotiating 
alignment  is  not  an  attempt  to  create  a  later-day  Hapsburg  Empire,  but  rather  a  reflection 
of  a  vacuum  on  the  map  of  Europe.  The  real  goal  of  the  group  is  to  facilitate  regional 
cooperation  within  the  context  of  eventual  European  integration.  Vondra  expects  that  in 
the  near  future  the  group  will  focus  primarily  on  mutual  cooperation  (e.g.,  transportation 
questions)  and  not  security  issues. 

Vondra  also  addressed  the  Czechoslovak  proposal  for  a  new  European  security 
system.  He  characterized  the  concept  of  two  blocs  as  anachronistic  but  also  stated  that 
he  did  not  like  the  idea  of  a  neutral  Eastern  Europe  under  the  protection  of  NATO, 
recalling  what  happened  with  previous  "guarantees"  to  Czechoslovakia’s  security  in  the  past. 
He  encouraged  those  who  oppose  Czechoslovakia’s  proposals  to  improve  and  refine  them. 
Echoing  Matejka’s  assurances  regarding  NATO,  Vondra  went  on  to  say  that  he  favored 
the  creation  of  a  CSCE  dispute  resolution  center  to  deal  with,  inter  alia,  ethnic  conflicts. 
NATO  and  such  new  mechanisms  could  complement  each  other. 


-  28  - 


Other  Activities 


The  delegation  paid  a  brief  call  on  Frantisek  Cardinal  Tomasek,  Archbishop  of 
Prague  to  pay  their  respects  and  commend  His  Eminence  on  his  strong  support  of  the 
democratic  movement  in  Czechoslovakia.  Cardinal  Tomasek  reassured  the  delegation  that 
reforms  providing  for  religious  freedom  had  been  or  are  being  implemented. 

DCM  Theodore  Russell  hosted  a  reception  for  the  delegation  on  the  evening  of 
their  arrival.  The  invitees  included  many  of  the  traditional  human  rights  activists  whom 
the  Commission  has  supported  over  the  years,  including  many  who  are  now  in  public  office. 
Others  have  remained  in  the  private  sector  as  publishers,  academics,  and  representatives 
of  non-governmental  organizations. 

The  delegation  hosted  a  lunch  for  Czech  Prime  Minister  Petr  Pithart,  whom 
Chairman  DeConcini  had  previously  met  in  Washington.  Among  those  attending  the  lunch 
were  cabinet  officials  from  the  Czech  Republic  responsible  for  economic  and  environmental 
matters.  After  the  lunch,  the  delegation  proceeded,  at  the  invitation  of  the  Prime  Minister, 
to  the  site  of  a  former  Soviet  military  base  at  Janska,  near  Decin  in  northern  Bohemia. 
In  fact,  the  base  had  just  been  returned  to  Czechoslovak  control  a  few  hours  earlier.  The 
purpose  of  the  visit  was  to  examine  environmental  damage  caused  by  the  occupying  forces. 
The  delegation  was  accompanied  by  environmental  officials  as  well  as  Czechoslovak  army 
officers. 


-  29  - 


VISIT  TO  BERLIN 
August  24,  1990 


I.  OBJECTIVES 

The  main  purpose  of  the  Commission  delegation  visit  to  Berlin  was  to  learn  the 
views  of  senior  members  of  the  democratically  elected  East  German  government  regarding 
the  imminent  unification  of  their  country  with  West  Germany.  At  the  time  of  the  visit,  the 
government  was  in  the  midst  of  a  crisis  as  it  sought  to  make  decisions  on  the  scheduling 
and  terms  of  unification  in  light  of  a  rapidly  worsening  economic  situation.  Several  senior 
members  of  the  coalition  government,  including  the  Foreign  Minister,  had  resigned  after 
a  major  rift  developed  between  the  leading  Christian  Democrats  (CDU)  and  their  Social 
Democrat  (SPD)  partners.  Given  the  major  impact  German  unification  is  expected  to  have 
on  European  diplomacy,  a  better  understanding  of  the  differences  underlying  the  crisis  was 
considered  important. 

Other  issues  which  the  Commission  hoped  to  discuss  with  East  German  officials 
included  efforts  to  dismantle  the  East  German  State  Security  Service  (the  "Stasi")  and  the 
future  of  the  CSCE  process. 


II.  THE  CONTEXT 

The  Commission  delegation  visit  to  Berlin  came  in  the  midst  of  intense  debate  in 
East  Germany  over  the  timing  of  unification  of  the  two  German  states,  exacerbated  by  a 
growing  economic  crisis  in  the  country. 

Beginning  with  the  opening  of  the  Berlin  Wall  on  November  9,  1989,  continual 
efforts  were  underway  to  move  toward  a  rapid  unification  of  East  and  West  Germany. 
Elections  in  the  German  Democratic  Republic  on  March  18,  1990  -  the  first  and  last  freely 
held  elections  in  the  GDR  -  resulted  in  a  victory  for  the  Christian  Democrats,  who,  led 
by  Lothar  de  Maiziere,  had  advocated  quicker  movement  toward  unification.  On  July  1, 
1990,  an  economic  and  monetary  union  was  established  between  the  two  Germanies,  which, 
in  merging  their  respective  economic  systems,  made  the  West  German  Deutsche  Mark  the 
official  currency  in  both  East  and  West. 

As  the  "Two-plus-Four"  negotiations  between  the  two  Germanies  and  the  four  post¬ 
war  powers  (the  United  States,  United  Kingdom,  France  and  the  Soviet  Union)  progressed 
and  the  time-table  for  unification  advanced,  the  East  German  government  moved  into  a 
crucial  period  in  the  late  summer  of  1990. 


-  31  - 


Three  developments  made  this  time  period  difficult.  First,  the  East  German  leaders 
were,  in  effect,  forced  to  consider  the  best  way  to  achieve  their  own  disappearance  from 
the  political  scene,  obviously  a  problematic  and  rather  unprecedented  task.  Second,  the 
unification  process  became  increasingly  subjected  to  the  internal,  electoral  politics,  as  the 
leading  parties  in  both  East  and  West  set  forth  their  own  strategies  designed  to  win 
upcoming,  all-German  elections.  Both  West  German  Chancellor  Kohl  and  de  Maiziere  had 
sought  to  move  the  elections  forward,  to  coincide  with  actual  unification,  but  had  to  back 
down  and  agree  that  December  2,  weeks  after  unification,  would  be  the  date  of  the 
elections.  In  the  meantime,  the  SPD  in  West  Germany,  headed  by  Oskar  LaFontaine, 
hoped  to  play  on  the  concerns  of  some  parts  of  the  West  German  population  by 
increasingly  focusing  on  the  costs  of  unification,  .  The  third  development  was  the 
worsening  economic  situation  in  East  Germany,  a  result  of  the  initial  introduction  of 
competition  from  Western  firms.  On  August  15,  for  example,  as  many  as  250,000  East 
German  farmers  demonstrated  in  Berlin  and  other  cities  protesting  Western  agricultural 
wholesalers  with  whom  they  could  not  compete,  forcing  East  German-grown  produce  to 
be  dumped. 

These  developments  precipitated  a  political  crisis  within  the  East  German 
government,  as  several  ministers  either  resigned  or  were  dismissed.  By  mid-August,  the 
East  German  Volkskammer  was  forced  to  go  into  extended  sessions  to  work  out  a  final 
agreement  on  the  date  for  unification  which  would  bring  the  crisis  to  a  close.  Just  prior 
to  the  Commission’s  arrival,  it  had  agreed  that  October  3  would  be  the  date.  It  was  a 
compromise  between  dates  proposed  by  the  CDU  and  the  SPD  and  it  immediately 
followed  the  CSCE  Meeting  of  Foreign  Ministers  scheduled  for  New  York  on  October  1 
and  2,  permitting  other  European  countries  along  with  the  United  States  and  Canada  to 
give  their  endorsement  to  unification. 


III.  THE  VISIT 

Arriving  the  night  before,  the  delegation  visit  began  the  morning  of  August  24  with 
a  briefing  by  the  U.S.  Ambassador  to  the  German  Democratic  Republic,  Richard  C. 
Barkley,  and  other  U.S.  Embassy  staff.  The  remainder  of  the  day  consisted  of  several 
meetings  with  East  German  officials,  including  Dr.  Helmut  Domke,  State  Secretary  at  the 
GDR  Foreign  Ministry,  Interior  Minister  Peter-Michael  Diestel  and  Sabine  Bergmann- 
Pohl,  President  of  the  Volkskammer.  The  delegation  also  had  time  to  tour  the  area  which 
divided  Berlin  into  East  and  West,  where  the  remainder  of  the  once  formidable  Berlin 
Wall  continued  to  be  chiseled  and  sold  as  souvenirs.  The  Commission  had  also  requested 
meetings  with  Prime  Minister  de  Maiziere,  Foreign  Minister  Markus  Meckel  and  West 
Berlin  Mayor  Walter  Momper,  but  the  crisis  in  the  East  German  government  forced  Prime 
Minister  de  Maiziere  to  cancel  a  meeting,  and  caused  Foreign  Minister  Meckel  to  resign 
just  prior  to  the  Commission  delegation’s  arrival.  Mayor  Momper  was  unavailable  at  the 
time  of  the  visit. 


-  32  - 


IV.  OBSERVATIONS 


In  the  meetings  with  East  German  officials,  the  main  topic  was  the  process  of 
German  unification  and  the  effects  of  unification  in  what  was  East  Germany.  Most  all 
East  German  officials  expressed  an  obvious  relief  that,  after  weeks  of  heated  polemics  and 
negotiation,  agreement  had  been  reached  to  have  unification  take  place  on  October  3. 
Volkskammer  President  Bergmann-Pohl  described  how  difficult  it  is  "to  dissolve  oneself," 
and  Chairman  DeConcini  complemented  the  East  Germans  for  making  what  must  have 
been  very  difficult  decisions. 

On  foreign  policy  issues,  the  unification  of  Germany  was  presented  as  a  major  step 
in  the  longer-term  goal  of  the  unification  of  Europe.  East  German  officials  said  they 
attached  great  importance  to  the  CSCE  process  and  described  a  proposal  the  GDR 
introduced  jointly  with  Poland  and  Czechoslovakia  at  the  Vienna  Preparatory  Committee 
for  the  CSCE  Summit.  The  proposal  called  for  the  establishment  of  a  CSCE  institute  on 
Conflict  Resolution/Peaceful  Settlement  of  Disputes,  and  another  institute  to  monitor 
military  issues,  such  as  implementation  of  Confidence-  and  Security-Building  Measures 
(CSBMs).  They  added,  however,  that  West  German  views  on  the  institutionalization  of  the 
CSCE  process  differed  somewhat  from  East  German  views  and  that  West  German  views 
would  dominate  in  the  post-unification  period.  When  asked  about  Basket  II  issues,  the 
East  Germans  said  that,  without  economic  progress,  there  will  be  no  stable  democracy  in 
Eastern  Europe.  Dr.  Wolfgang  Schwarz,  a  foreign  policy  advisor  to  Prime  Minister  de 
Maiziere,  noted  with  some  concern  that  Basket  II  was  not  dealt  with  in  the  recent  London 
declaration  of  NATO  leaders  on  CSCE  issues. 

On  domestic  issues,  most  of  the  discussion,  especially  in  the  meeting  with  Interior 
Minister  Diestel,  focused  on  efforts  to  dismantle  the  State  Security  Service  (Stasi).  Diestel 
said  that  86,000  people  worked  full-time  for  the  Stasi,  with  an  additional  one  million 
serving  as  informants.  He  called  it  the  best  security  service  in  the  world.  As  far  as  the 
millions  of  files  on  individuals  maintained  by  the  Stasi,  Diestel  noted  the  argument  that 
they  should  be  made  public  so  that  those  who  associated  themselves  with  the  Stasi  and  its 
more  criminal  activities  could  be  brought  to  justice.  He  maintained,  on  the  other  hand, 
that  it  would  probably  be  better  to  destroy  the  files,  since  the  information  they  revealed 
could  not  be  verified  and  may  very  easily  have  been  fabricated,  destroying  the  future  of 
many  innocent  people.  He  doubted  the  ability  of  the  government  to  store  the  files  securely 
to  prevent  their  eventual  misuse,  but  added  that  he  would  follow  the  wishes  of  the 
Parliament.  President  Bergmann-Pohl  questioned  whether  the  Volkskammer  would 
approve  the  destruction  of  the  files  and  argued  that  efforts  to  prosecute  Stasi  members  be 
done  with  great  discretion. 

Other  domestic  issues  addressed  included  East  Germany’s  discussions  with  Israel 
regarding  the  Holocaust,  the  severity  of  environmental  problems  in  East  Germany  and 
predictions  on  the  outcome  of  elections  later  in  the  year. 


-  33  - 

O 


240  94 


;  <£*,  '  ^  "" 


I  V*  :§m\  X  “ 

“  #v^  0 


*  X*  ^ 
f'  V-  -v 
®  ^rc,v 


*  >. 


>V*  vw;  /\m*/'\j, 

,,  ^s&s;  s%^%i  •  v*a>°;  •  ' 

“W  °.sS§4'.  W  •JM§»;  *^>4.. 

.O-A  «  * 


^  VS10 ;  * 

,.0°vfe°  v». 

*-'  u*  ■A 
* 


V  o<.^X 


‘O'1  tow;,*  W'  "crj\yw*s  A' 

,  ,cT  ,* 4  *  ^  %  v*_.t...<V"* 

V>  A  <*,  V  ,A-  - 

o  %n«^  *  ^ 


z  £ 

'*'l<^«-«/V°“iV°c 

^  .>.  ■»  yr\,  /-y  & 

,;v^->'  v-. 


»•„*>.  TO 

I  %•£  » 

°  5 


V,w!°  ^  o  *»  o*  Vv-w. 

**  w  .m\\/  ?m\  w 


>  /\m>  /\  \IIfi  /\  UK-  **v\  l 

Nc  x>  ^  *  *  *v<s  u  </.  x*>  A<^  ^  ...  < 

*,X  s<y>c°  **  xl  ax*l,4«A>  04  t°Nc^ -i> 

'.  ^  y  .  <®l&,  -  V,.*  0^4'. 


*V,  *  A%'  />,  0  WvS&AN  4,  V  O', 

,  .  *4  c\  *  ww  4  ,c_v  4> 

V'  * 8  V°**  L,J/V°4^  ^  ****** 
'.  ^  .m;V  ?4ift 


&?  ^ 


0  ypp^S  o  r  *  J^\SR/|%.  n  Vr>  ,. 

°  .aV^V.  o  <b 

«q‘?  ‘Mm?,  yo'  ^  .mm^' 


& 


r  n  * 


’’y°  s  .  »  ^X*'0"0’  <^4« .  ..o^* 
>\  ?0 


o  TOW.*  <j?  *>,  %««».*  ^  > 

■/^  “/.c-A 


.c5>^ 


O  W  ''■t 

*  "bv”  « AifW ",  'rA0N  • 

/  0^°X  ’■^P'3.  °  XX  r*sS0j  o*  A  ' 

■  V;,,‘V>.‘*‘t*S  ‘5“0\X,“,'\',,i“>° 

*  V5a  ^  ^  ^  A>J  4, 


*  5 


°  4  ^  k-  -  w  cke^  -  w  »  isi*j  i.tss 

X*frS,  ■  ■  ■  >-^>:  ■  ■  .?4^%  •  •  -K®. 

w ,  ^ .  . , 

f «  ofcf ;  <£**  tljf,n  offp:  .mS®  ~ «, 

*S'°  *  V°-®»V  *  *  *  lcot*c>V 6  ‘  '&/tfj£&t  &  v 

*  iMt»\  ^  “A*  V*  'Mk\  ^  ;4Sfe*  +°?  'i^\  *»#  f 

4  7^  <  ^  «  ~-U,  <=«  a  ^  m  LfOTv.  ^  ^  •  Ay^  ®5?'  A  >  A  A  r\ 

O-1'  o  w 


^  «//V.w;  ^ %  vw*/\ 

•vV  * '  >■>:  %&C  *  V.&V  *  *  >%;■  *^\ 

*  ■  0  A  *  **/  o\^\  * 


.  -O^*5*  <jJ* 

X  *D  KO5  ^<V  . 

,v  &  „■»-  -  *>  *>  -* 

'l  **<£_  <A  * 

=  %4>  6 

>\ /\»w;  J^'W 

v  cut«^>  o 

«r 


t  <!■■&  -i 

-  .C,,P.  ^  < 


6  N< 


