***** 


Tcr^  a 


*         r*»     AV      * 


^°^ 


o  \- 


*<      *±ct 


Aq* 


^     %  #    J* 


**.,,•'  Ao 


!»  ^         0° 


■**      ^3 


"o^   :}flH^  ^o*"  •<^H&:    *btf 


'* .  •i^> 


*        >£»     A*      ♦- 


« V      ^ 


v-o^ 


'bV 


.^'  .*i^!.  %     c0'  ..i^l:^  °o     ^  . 


^50^ 


**v% 


,/%, 


^«^. 

£  %> 


%••    ^0<     ;« 


•bV" 


v/ 


^    A^      - 


J>** 


*       **     A*      •' 


A° 


^        *A^         •*• 


■>,. 


bV 


W 


»?•<,. 


<*"  «J  *A^<^**_         "P. 


»bv4 


.*  .lilf% 


.AV^ 


.•i$»i°.  \/  /Jfe*-.  ^^  .-»«*•.  V 


.A* 


..% 


4>*      o-o      ^    ^^    *°  °*      — '" 


S.V     *& 


£'  ^ 


**"** 


IC    9253 


BUREAU  OF  MINES 
INFORMATION  CIRCULAR/1990 

¥92 


Review  of  Single-tntry  Longwall 
Mining  Technology  in  the  United 
States 

By  F.  M.  Jenkins  and  E.  T.  Cullen 


U.S.  BUREAU  OF  MINES 
1910-1990 


THE  MINERALS  SOURCE 


%U  OF  *X* 


Mission:  As  the  Nation's  principal  conservation 
agency,  the  Department  of  the  Interior  has  respon- 
sibility for  most  of  our  nationally-owned  public 
lands  and  natural  and  cultural  resources.  This 
includes  fostering  wise  use  of  our  land  and  water 
resources,  protecting  our  fish  and  wildlife,  pre- 
serving the  environmental  and  cultural  values  of 
our  national  parks  and  historical  places,  and  pro- 
viding for  the  enjoyment  of  life  through  outdoor 
recreation.  The  Department  assesses  our  energy 
and  mineral  resources  and  works  to  assure  that 
their  development  is  in  the  best  interests  of  all 
our  people.  The  Department  also  promotes  the 
goals  of  the  Take  Pride  in  America  campaign  by 
encouraging  stewardship  and  citizen  responsibil- 
ity for  the  public  lands  and  promoting  citizen  par- 
ticipation in  their  care.  The  Department  also  has 
a  major  responsibility  for  American  Indian  reser- 
vation communities  and  for  people  who  live  in 
Island  Territories  under  U.S.  Administration. 


Information  Circular  9253 


Review  of  Single-Entry  Longwall 
Mining  Technology  in  the  United 
States 


By  F.  M.  Jenkins  and  E.  T.  Cullen 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  THE  INTERIOR 
Manuel  Lujan,  Jr.,  Secretary 

BUREAU  OF  MINES 
T  S  Ary,  Director 


Sy 


& 

* 


> 


-o 


Library  of  Congress  Cataloging  in  Publication  Data: 


Jenkins,  F.  Michael. 

Review  of  single-entry  longwall  mining  technology  in  the  United  States  /  by 
F.  Michael  Jenkins  and  Elaine  T.  Cullen. 

p.   cm.  -  (Bureau  of  Mines  information  circular;  9253) 

Includes  bibliographical  references. 

Supt.  of  Docs,  no.:  I  28.27:9253. 

1.   Longwall  mining-United  States.    I.  Cullen,  Elaine  T.    II.   Title.    III.    Series: 
Information  circular  (United  States.    Bureau  of  Mines);  9253 

TN295.U4         [TN275]         622  s-dc20         [622'.334]        89-600381 

CIP 


CONTENTS 

Page 

Abstract 1 

Introduction 2 

Single-entry  technology  abroad   3 

Development 3 

Ventilation 5 

U.S.  single-entry  studies   6 

Sunnyside  project 6 

Tunnel-boring  machine  project 9 

Other  single-entry  research  studies  in  United  States 15 

North  American  Mining  Consultants  study    15 

Ketron  study   15 

Research  related  to  single  entries 16 

Conclusions   16 

References 17 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

1.  Elevation  and  plan  view  of  European-type  single  entry    4 

2.  Sunnyside  single-entry  project    7 

3.  Concrete  crib  line  in  17th  L  single  entry 9 

4.  Single-entry  center  wall  in  18th  L,  right  side 10 

5.  Single-entry  center  wall  in  18th  L,  left  side 10 

6.  Elevation  and  plan  view  of  Sunnyside  split  single  entry   11 

7.  Tunnel-boring  machine    12 

8.  Elevation  and  plan  view  of  TBM  split  single  entry 12 

9.  Lower  compartment  of  entry  developed  by  TBM    14 


UNIT  OF  MEASURE  ABBREVIATIONS  USED  IN  THIS  REPORT 

cfm 

cubic  foot  per  minute                                                                  mt 

metric  ton 

ft 

foot                                                                                            pet 

percent 

ga 

gauge                                                                                         st 

short  ton 

in 

inch                                                                                               V 

volt 

kV»A 

kilovolt  ampere 

REVIEW  OF  SINGLE-ENTRY  LONGWALL  MINING  TECHNOLOGY 

IN  THE  UNITED  STATES 


By  F.  M.  Jenkins1  and  E.  T.  Cullen2 


ABSTRACT 

Longwall  mining  systems  are  used  to  mine  approximately  50  pet  of  the  world's  total  underground  coal 
production.  Single  entries  are  the  predominant  method  of  longwall  development  in  Europe  and  Asia, 
where  mining  conditions  are  more  severe  than  those  encountered  in  the  United  States.  During  the 
1970's  and  early  1980's,  the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Mines  and  the  U.S.  mining  industry  invested  nearly  $20 
million  in  single-entry  and  related  research.  This  report  reviews  the  accomplishments  of  single-entry 
research  in  the  United  States  and  describes  two  U.S.  single-entry  field  projects:  the  Sunnyside  single- 
entry  project  in  central  Utah  and  the  tunnel-boring  project  in  northern  West  Virginia.  Also  discussed 
are  a  single-entry  study  conducted  by  North  American  Mining  Consultants  (NAMCO)  and  a  single- 
entry  design  study  conducted  by  Ketron,  Inc.  This  Bureau  report  compares  the  resulting  technology  with 
European  counterparts  to  further  assess  the  utility  and  efficiency  of  U.S.  systems. 


JMining  engineer. 

information  systems  management  analyst. 

Spokane  Research  Center,  U.S.  Bureau  of  Mines,  Spokane,  WA. 


INTRODUCTION 


Underground  coal  mines  in  the  United  States  have  used 
room-and-pillar  methods  of  extraction  almost  exclusively, 
first  employing  the  drill,  blast,  and  load  cycle  and  later 
using  continuous  mining  machines.  The  room-and-pillar 
method  of  driving  several  parallel  entries  still  dominates 
the  layout  of  most  coal  mines.  U.S.  mining  regulations 
evolved  from  experience  gained  in  room-and-pillar  mining 
and  the  use  of  multiple  entries.  Therefore,  underground 
coal  mining  methods  that  employ  different  entry  config- 
urations are  constrained  by  regulations  for  room-and-pillar 
mining.  For  example,  until  the  regulations  were  revised  in 
1988,  longwall  mining  was  defined  by  the  Code  of  Federal 
Regulations  (CFR)  as  a  special  case  of  room-and-pillar 
mining  (30  CFR  75.201-3,  1987)  and  hence  was  subject  to 
laws  governing  that  method. 

The  U.S.  coal  industry  currently  mines  underground 
seams  where  conditions  are  relatively  favorable;  that  is, 
seams  are  thick,  uniform,  have  few  faults,  and  he  under 
fairly  shallow  cover.  Under  these  conditions,  room-and- 
pillar  and  longwall  mining  methods  result  in  relatively  high 
production  rates  and  favorable  economic  conditions.  As 
easily  recovered  supplies  are  exhausted,  however,  U.S. 
mine  operators  will  be  forced  to  mine  reserves  where  con- 
ditions are  more  severe,  requiring  new  mining  techniques. 
This  is  the  case  in  Europe  where  longwall  mining  with 
single-entry  development  evolved  as  a  method  of  handling 
severe  mining  conditions. 

Longwall  mining  was  introduced  into  the  United  States 
as  a  means  of  increasing  productivity.  It  was  first  tried  at 
the  turn  of  the  century,  but  was  abandoned  because  of  the 
difficulty  of  manually  moving  timber  support  lines  across 
the  coal  face.  With  the  introduction  of  self-advancing 
mechanical  props,  longwall  mining  was  tried  again  in  Utah 
and  West  Virginia  in  the  early  1960's.  In  Eastern  U.S. 
coalfields,  longwall  mining  was  used  in  mines  having 
ground  control  problems-ones  with  mudstone  or  friable 
shale  roofs,  which  caved  easily.  Even  though  the  cover  was 
shallow,  the  mechanical  props  were  too  light,  and  these 
operations  were  not  considered  to  be  successful.  Long- 
walls  were  then  tried  in  seams  with  massive  roof  strata  and 
shallow  cover,  again  using  light  props.  Under  such  condi- 
tions, the  support  either  failed  or  was  operated  with  great 
difficulty.  As  a  result  of  these  experiences,  the  growth  of 
longwall  mining  in  the  East  was  stunted.  At  the  same 
time,  the  Sunnyside  Mines  in  Carbon  County,  UT,  were 
among  the  first  Western  U.S.  operations  to  use  longwalls 
extensively  in  deep  cover.  These  installations  were  suc- 
cessful; however,  development-entry  stability  was  a  serious 
problem. 

In  1966,  two  longwalls  were  again  tried  in  the  East,  one 
at  considerable  depth,  under  massive  sandstone  roof  strata. 
Both  were  equipped  with  heavy-duty  mechanical  supports. 
Both  longwalls  were  instantly  successful,  leading  to  the  first 
modest  expansion  of  the  longwall  mining  system  in  the  late 
1960's.  Improvements  in  equipment  and  mining  of  thicker 
seams  have  accounted  for  dramatic  increases  in  the  pro- 
ductivity of  longwall  mining  since  1980. 


Longwall  mining  offers  several  advantages  over  room- 
and-pillar  mining.  Carrying  one  long  face  and  allowing  the 
roof  to  break  and  cave  behind  the  face  simplifies  roof 
control  and  ventilation  problems,  allows  recovery  of  a 
higher  percentage  of  the  coal,  increases  production,  and 
provides  safer  working  conditions  (I).3 

Stresses  created  under  deep  cover  can  cause  ground 
control  problems  for  longwall  operations,  however.  Long- 
wall  operations  at  the  Sunnyside  Mines  under  2,500  ft  of 
overburden  experienced  stability  problems  in  both  head- 
gate  and  tailgate  entries.  Extreme  roof  and  floor  conver- 
gence, bumps,  and  bursting  of  the  chain  pillars  forced  the 
Sunnyside  Mines  to  use  a  two-entry  system  to  develop 
longwall  panels.  The  mine  continued  using  two  entries  to 
develop  longwall  panels  under  a  "grandfather"  clause  in  the 
Federal  Coal  Mine  Health  and  Safety  Act  of  1969  even 
though  three  entries  were  required  by  the  act.  In  spite 
of  the  double-entry  development  system,  bumps  and 
sloughing  of  the  roof  and  ribs  continued  to  be  problems. 
In  an  effort  to  solve  these  problems,  the  company  pro- 
posed experimenting  with  a  single-entry  development  sys- 
tem under  a  cooperative  research  project  with  the  U.S. 
Bureau  of  Mines.  This  proposal  was  accepted,  and  the 
first  U.S.  single-entry  project  began  in  1971. 

In  the  same  year,  another  cooperative  research  project 
was  proposed  to  the  Bureau  by  Eastern  Associated  Coal 
Corp.  (EACC),  Pittsburgh,  PA,  to  drive  a  main  devel- 
opment heading  with  a  tunnel-boring  machine  (TBM).  A 
TBM  is  a  continuous  excavation  machine  limited  by  its  size 
and  operation  to  excavating  a  single,  circular-shaped  entry. 
TBM's  have  been  used  worldwide  for  many  years  in  such 
underground  construction  projects  as  transportation 
tunnels  and  watercourses.  The  TBM  project,  conducted 
from  1973  to  1979,  had  a  purpose  different  from  that  of 
the  Sunnyside  project;  however,  both  had  an  impact  on 
single-entry  research.  Each  project  resulted  in  single 
entries  being  driven  for  development  purposes.  The  TBM 
drove  a  main  entry  to  reach  a  remote  ventilation  shaft, 
while  the  Sunnyside  single  entries  developed  production 
longwall  panels.  These  two  projects  marked  the  beginning 
of  single-entry  research  in  the  United  States.  By  the  first 
part  of  the  1980's,  the  coal  industry  and  the  Bureau  had 
invested  nearly  $20  million  in  single-entry  and  related 
research. 

The  main  objective  of  this  report  is  to  document  U.S. 
experience  in  single-entry  research.  This  work  was  done 
in  support  of  the  Bureau's  mission  to  improve  the  health 
and  safety  of  miners  in  underground  coal  mines  and  to 
increase  the  productivity  of  those  mines.  The  review 
begins  with  a  look  at  single-entry  coal  mine  development 
abroad.  Much  can  be  learned  by  comparing  the  equip- 
ment, methods,  and  regulations  of  other  countries  that  use 
single  entries  with  those  of  the  United  States,  primarily 


Italic  numbers  in  parentheses  refer  to  items  in  the  list  of  references 
at  the  end  of  this  report. 


those  used  in  the  Sunnyside  and  TBM  demonstrations. 
Both  projects  are  reviewed  to  point  out  lessons  learned 
from  these  experiences. 

This  report  does  not  deal  with  single-entry  methods 
applied  to  other  coal  mining  situations  in  this  country,  such 
as  advancing  longwall  operations  (2)  and  slope  develop- 
ments (3-4).  For  example,  in  Mid-Continent  Resources' 
L.  S.  Wood  Mine  in  Pitkin  County,  CO,  a  single  entry  was 
developed  as  part  of  the  longwall  face.  The  entry  was 
immediately  separated  into  a  double  entry  by  a  pumped 
pack  wall  and  could  be  used  as  a  panel  for  multilift 
longwall  mining.  The  mining  plan  involved  removing  the 
top  half  of  a  28-ft-thick  coal  seam  with  an  advancing 
longwall  and  removing  the  remaining  bottom  half  with  a 


retreating  longwall  (5).  Special  situations  such  as  this  do 
not  involve  traditional  in-seam  single-entry  excavations  for 
coal  reserve  development. 

Two  other  sources  of  information  are  important  to  U.S. 
single-entry  research.  The  first  is  a  U.S.  Department  of 
Energy  (DOE)  contract  report  entitled  "Single-Entry 
Longwall  Study"  (6)  in  which  NAMCO,  New  York,  NY, 
compared  the  pertinent  mining  regulations  of  other  coal- 
producing  countries  to  those  of  the  United  States.  The 
second  is  a  study  of  the  design  of  a  single-entry  devel- 
opment system  for  retreat  longwall  mining  systems  by 
Ketron,  Inc.,  Wayne,  PA.  It  employed  a  systems-design 
approach  that  improved  the  in-seam  divided  single-entry 
concept  used  at  Sunnyside. 


SINGLE-ENTRY  TECHNOLOGY  ABROAD 


DEVELOPMENT 

Longwall  mining  has  been  the  rule  rather  than  the 
exception  for  many  years  in  the  major  coal-producing 
countries  of  Europe.  This  is  a  result  of  the  conditions 
encountered  as  shallow  coal  reserves  were  exhausted  and 
mining  moved  to  deeper  workings.  European  (which  in- 
cludes British)  coalfields  generally  he  in  thinner  beds  and 
at  greater  depths  than  U.S.  deposits  currently  mined. 
Depths  of  3,000  to  4,000  ft  are  common,  and  much  greater 
ground  pressures  are  experienced  than  in  this  country's 
coal  mines. 

In  Europe,  both  advance  and  retreat  longwall  mining 
are  practiced.  In  advance  longwall  mining,  the  entry  or 
entries  used  to  access  the  face  may  be  driven  with  the  face 
or  ahead  of  the  face.  These  entries  must  remain  open 
throughout  mining  of  the  panel  to  provide  haulage, 
ventilation,  and  escapeways.  For  retreat  longwall  mining, 
a  coal  block  is  defined  by  the  complete  driving  of  the 
entries  before  the  face  equipment  is  installed.  The  face  is 
then  mined  back  toward  the  haulage  main,  allowing  the 
roof  to  cave  behind.  In  either  advance  or  retreat  systems, 
if  longwall  panels  are  to  be  developed  consecutively  across 
a  coal  block,  the  entries  will  be  used  for  two  panels 
(headgate  for  one  longwall  and  tailgate  for  the  succeeding 
one).  Therefore,  the  entries  must  be  kept  open  for  the 
time  it  takes  to  mine  two  complete  longwall  panels. 
Single-entry  longwall  development  was  a  solution  to  the 
strata  problems  experienced  in  Europe  (6). 

European-type  single  entries  are  driven  much  as  U.S. 
tunnels  are  driven,  that  is,  undivided  with  mandatory 
auxiliary  ventilation  provided  by  intake  or  return  air  tubes 
or  both.  European  mining  regulations  are  much  more 
stringent  than  U.S.  regulations  in  some  areas  and  less  so 
in  others.  In  Europe,  all  equipment  in  the  single  entry 
must  be  permissible  and  fireproof;  however,  only  one 
escapeway  is  required.  European  law  also  restricts  the 
number  of  miners  working  in  the  single  entry,  and  fire 
protection  measures  tend  to  be  more  severe. 

Europeans  use  single  entries  to  develop  retreating  and 
advancing  longwalls  for  a  number  of  important  reasons: 


(1)  They  offer  complete  extraction  of  limited  coal  reserves, 

(2)  they  provide  a  method  of  limiting  subsidence  damage 
at  the  surface,  and  (3)  they  offer  superior  control  of  ex- 
treme ground  pressures  at  great  depth.  When  a  mine  is 
deep,  an  entry  developed  in  solid  coal  will  not  stay  open 
without  excessive  support  maintenance.  This  phenomenon 
appears  when  depth  exceeds  a  specific  limit,  which  de- 
pends on  the  nature  of  the  strata,  coal  strength,  and 
pressure  concentrations  resulting  from  prior  mining.  This 
type  of  structural  instability  should  be  distinguished  from 
localized  roof  falls.  These  instabilities  are,  of  course, 
interrelated;  however,  structural  instability  will  not  always 
result  in  roof  falls,  but  rather  may  cause  a  gradual  closure 
of  the  opening.  Pillars  will  yield  or  the  floor  will  heave, 
restricting  movement  through  the  entry.  In  many  cases, 
single  entries  are  driven  completely  away  from  the  coal 
seam  in  more  competent  rock,  which  results  in  less  closure 
in  the  longwall  development  openings. 

Extreme  rock  pressure  may  also  limit  the  use  of 
retreating  longwalls  to  cases  where  development  entries 
remain  usable  throughout  the  life  of  the  panel.  When 
entries  require  excessive  support  maintenance,  the  primary 
consequences  are  that  developments  are  made  only  as 
needed,  not  ahead  of  time,  and  the  number  of  entries  is 
kept  to  a  minimum.  The  advantage  inherent  in  driving  a 
single  entry  comes  from  its  geometric  configuration. 
Stability  is  maintained  because  less  ground  is  disturbed, 
chain  pillars  are  not  created,  and  the  stress  field  of  the 
surrounding  area  is  uniformly  distributed  around  the  single 
opening.  A  secondary  consequence  is  that  when  the  total 
number  of  entries  is  kept  to  a  minimum,  more  care  can  be 
given  to  supporting  them.  Wire  mesh  is  bolted  to  the  roof 
and  walls,  steel  arches  are  set,  and  the  cavity  between  the 
support  and  the  stratum  is  filled.  With  this  type  of  sup- 
port, maintenance  of  a  single  entry  is  less  time  consuming 
and  less  costly  than  for  a  multiple-entry  development. 

There  is  a  major  difference  between  U.S.  and  European 
development  philosophies.  Generally,  in  Europe,  entry 
development  is  considered  a  necessary,  expensive  invest- 
ment to  open  longwall  panels.  Coal  is  not  produced  dur- 
ing development  since  either  rock  is  taken  with  the  coal 


seam  or  the  entry  is  driven  entirely  out  of  seam.  This  type 
of  development  is  expensive,  but  in  the  long  term,  better 
returns  on  investment  can  be  achieved.  Very  little  coal 
must  be  left  in  place  for  support,  and  the  maintenance  of 
main  entries  is  much  less  expensive  because  ground  distur- 
bance during  development  is  minimal.  A  coal  property 
can  be  developed  from  a  central  location  to  its  boundaries 
and  production  can  then  proceed  inward,  leaving  the 
mined-out  area  behind.  In  this  way,  all  the  advantages  of 
single  entries-that  is,  rapid  development,  improved  ex- 
traction ratio,  improved  subsidence  control,  and  improved 
ground  control-can  be  realized.  U.S.  mines,  on  the  other 
hand,  view  the  development  stage  as  a  coal-producing  unit 
in  its  own  right  and  therefore  as  profit  generating.  This 
disparity  between  U.S.  and  European  strategies  promotes 
two  entirely  different  development  approaches  and  results 
in  a  marked  dissimilarity  in  the  number  and  configuration 
of  entries  in  development  headings. 

Longwall  panel  development  in  the  United  States  is  car- 
ried out  almost  entirely  in-seam,  and  multiple  entries  and 
crosscuts  form  rooms  and  pillars.  European  developments 
tend  to  be  single  entries  driven  out  of  seam  with  a  large 
rectangular  cross  section  or  an  arched  roof  if  strata  control 
is  a  problem.  A  width-height  ratio  of  3:2  is  common  (6). 
Haulage,  ventilation,  materials  supply,  and  the  escapeway 
are  all  contained  in  this  one  entry.  Figure  1  shows  a 
European-type  single-entry  development  driven  with  a 
roadheader. 

The  absence  of  a  divider  wall  is  the  most  striking  differ- 
ence between  U.S.  and  European  single-entry  systems.  In 
order  to  drive  the  type  of  entry  shown  in  figure  1,  it  is 
necessary  to  extract  not  only  the  coal,  but  a  large  amount 
of  roof  rock  as  well.  Mining  machines  used  to  drive  these 
entries  must  be  able  to  cut  rock  as  well  as  coal,  and  they 
must  be  permissible,  a  requirement  placed  on  all  equip- 
ment used  in  the  entry.  The  main  types  used  are  road- 
headers,  dintheaders,  in-seam  miners,  and  continuous 
miners.  The  types  of  strata  to  be  cut  are  the  deciding 
factors  in  choosing  which  piece  of  equipment  to  use. 


Continuous  miners  are  used  for  coal  and  soft  rock,  but 
roadheaders  and  dintheaders  are  preferred  for  harder 
strata.  These  machines  also  have  the  ability  to  drive 
arched  or  high  rectangular  entries,  while  continuous 
miners  are  somewhat  limited  as  to  the  shape  they  can 
produce.  Much  research  has  gone  into  the  design  of  these 
types  of  machines,  and  they  are  available  in  a  variety  of 
configurations  to  fill  different  mining  needs. 

One  type  of  machine  widely  accepted  and  used  in 
British  mines  is  the  partial  cutting  machine  or  in-seam 
miner.  This  type  of  machine  drives  a  wide,  low,  elliptical 
entry  and  uses  a  continuous  cutting  operation.  A  dis- 
charge conveyor  moves  the  cut  coal  from  the  back  of  the 
machine  to  the  entry  conveyor.  The  in-seam  miner  is  used 
primarily  in  coal  and  soft  rock  and  has  the  advantage  of 
allowing  immediate  installation  of  supports  while  pro- 
ducing speeds  of  over  50  ft  of  advance  per  shift  and  gener- 
ating little  dust.  Disadvantages  are  that  it  does  not  cut 
hard  material  efficiently  and  it  is  difficult  to  steer  (7). 

Longwall  mining  methods  vary  among  the  European 
coal-producing  countries.  British  mine  operators  use  more 
retreat  mining,  while  West  German  mine  operators  favor 
advancing  mining.  In  1979,  with  over  400  operating  long- 
wall  faces  in  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany,  58  pet 
were  advancing,  primarily  because  retreat  mining  is  more 
costly  because  of  prior  entry  development.  Retreat  mining 
does,  however,  offer  the  advantages  of  reconnaissance  of 
the  coalbed  prior  to  mining,  cooling  and  degassing  of  the 
strata  along  the  road,  and  separation  of  entry  advance 
work  from  the  face  production  with  alleviation  of  the 
inherent  dust  problem.  The  West  Germans  take  advan- 
tage of  these  benefits,  yet  still  control  costs  by  employing 
a  ventilation  system  that  allows  one  gate  road  to  be  devel- 
oped prior  to  mining  while  the  other  is  advanced  with  the 
face. 

Another  method  that  is  becoming  popular  is  the  alter- 
nate advancing  and  retreating  panels.  Face  equipment 
may  be  moved  straight  across  the  gate  entry  to  the  next 
panel,  avoiding  costly  delays  incurred  while  moving  heavy 


l\K£_ 


ami 


aZMZJ 


■  -' '  ■  .■■..'. ' i,1,1,,1 " 1 1 1 1 1 


Bridge  conveyor         Belt 


ELEVATION 


Exhaust  ventilation 


WW// 

PLAN   VIEW 


0     6    12 

i i i 

Scale,  ft 
SECTION  A-A 

Figure  1  .-Elevation  and  plan  view  of  European-type  single  entry. 


equipment  from  the  end  of  one  panel  to  the  start  of 
another  (8). 

West  German  engineers  have  persisted  in  their  research 
on  the  optimum  entry  configuration  for  single  entries. 
Arched  entries  approximately  16  to  20  ft  wide  and  12  to 
14  ft  high  predominate  (6),  particularly  in  the  Ruhr 
District  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany.  Supported 
by  yielding  steel  arches,  these  entries  offer  good  strata 
control  as  well  as  provide  adequate  clearance  for  venti- 
lation requirements  and  for  equipment  needed  for  haulage, 
support,  and  transportation  of  personnel  and  materials. 
In  mines  with  shallow  depths  and  more  favorable  ground 
control  conditions,  rectangular  entries  are  often  used 
because  support  costs  are  less.  Rectangular  entries  are 
generally  lower  than  arched  entries  and  are  narrower  at 
the  roof  than  at  the  floor  (so  that  they  are  actually  a 
trapezoidal  shape). 

In  the  1960's,  several  experiments  were  conducted  by 
the  West  Germans  using  in-seam  miners  to  develop  wide 
(up  to  30  ft),  rectangular,  single  entries.  The  objectives 
were  to  (1)  increase  space  available  in  the  entry  to  accom- 
modate larger  mining  equipment,  (2)  maximize  support 
strength  while  minimizing  convergence,  and  (3)  obtain 
maximum  support  strength  using  at  least  four  rows  of 
props  to  divide  the  entry  into  three  or  more  compartments 
(6).  Even  though  the  trials  were  conducted  in  what  were 
considered  to  be  favorable  conditions,  the  test  entries  were 
subjected  to  excessive  deformation  caused  by  floor  heave. 
This  caused  severe  difficulties  in  repair  and  maintenance, 
eventually  ending  the  experiment.  The  conclusion  drawn 
was  that  entries  with  excessive  width-height  ratios  were 
dangerous  under  the  ground  conditions  found  in  European 
coal  mines.  This  conclusion  corroborates  the  experience 
of  the  first  U.S.  single  entry,  which  had  a  cross  section 
approximately  26  ft  wide  by  6  ft  high.  It,  too,  proved  dif- 
ficult to  maintain. 

Australian  mine  development  is  similar  to  U.S.  devel- 
opment; that  is,  longwall  mining  is  a  relatively  new 
method.  It  is  not  widely  used  outside  of  the  South  Coast 
District  of  New  South  Wales  where  mining  conditions  are 
considered  difficult.  Interest  in  longwall  mining  is  growing, 
however,  with  several  reasons  listed  by  the  Australian  Joint 
Coal  Board  in  its  34th  annual  report  (1980-81)  (9).  These 
reasons  included  a  recognition  of  the  technological  limita- 
tions of  room-and-pillar  mining  with  continuous  miners, 
potential  of  increased  size  of  mining  operations  using  long- 
walls,  improved  coal  recovery  ratios,  and  safer  working 
conditions. 

Australian  longwall  panels  are  currently  developed  with 
continuous  miners  driving  multiple  entries.  Ellalong 
Colliery  in  New  South  Wales  was  the  first  to  experiment 
with  single  entries,  driving  a  14.5-ft-wide  by  5.5-ft-high 
entry  in  1981  to  help  overcome  severe  ground  control 
problems  (10).  This  field  trial  was  considered  a  success; 
a  stable  roadway  was  developed  at  advance  rates  exceeding 
those  produced  by  dintheaders  used  in  similar  conditions. 

Although  British  mines  have  utilized  longwalls  and 
single  entries  for  some  time,  one  mine  in  particular  used 
these  techniques  to  solve  a  unique  ground  control  problem. 


The  West  Yorkshire  Coalfield  in  the  Barnsley  County  area 
is  considered  one  of  the  oldest  industrialized  coalfields  in 
the  world.  As  such,  it  is  a  labyrinth  of  worked-out  seams 
and  pillars.  These  pillars  were  left  to  control  surface  sub- 
sidence, protect  underground  roadways,  control  interaction 
between  faces,  and  minimize  the  impact  of  faults  within 
the  coalbed.  An  estimated  100  million  mt  of  "untouchable" 
coal  was  left  underground,  unminable  because  of  the  eco- 
nomic restraints  of  recovering  such  reserves  using  current 
technology.  An  additional  complication  is  that  the  coal- 
field lies  at  shallow  depths  under  a  heavily  populated  area. 

The  management  of  the  South  Kirby  Colliery,  one  of 
the  mines  in  the  area,  decided  to  try  a  single-entry  retreat 
longwall  system  to  mine  protective  pillars  while  main- 
taining their  support  capabilities.  Using  a  Dosco 
dintheader  to  drive  an  entry  15  ft  wide  by  7  ft  2  in  high,  an 
experimental  panel  was  developed.  Although  several 
design  changes  were  made  before  driving  a  subsequent 
single  entry,  the  experiment  was  considered  a  success,  with 
substantial  increases  in  production  and  profit. 

Among  the  benefits  of  using  single  entries  for  such 
applications  are  (1)  the  ability  to  mine  under  heavily 
populated  areas  with  minimum  surface  damage  and  still 
maintain  high  productivity,  (2)  the  ability  to  work  seams 
prone  to  spontaneous  combustion,  (3)  the  ability  to  work 
old  seams,  recovering  valuable  reserves,  and  (4)  the  possi- 
bility of  low-cost  disposal  of  mine  waste  underground  at 
the  face  (11). 

VENTILATION 

Ventilation  practices  and  regulations  in  Europe  differ 
from  those  in  the  United  States.  AIL  including  the  United 
States,  specify  that  as  much  air  as  necessary  be  delivered 
to  the  face  to  dilute  fumes,  dust,  methane  (CH4),  and 
other  gases.  U.S.  regulations,  however,  specify  a  minimum 
quantity  of  air  for  a  work  area  per  unit  of  time,  whereas 
French  and  West  German  laws  regulate  the  amount  of  air 
required  per  person  and  unit  of  time.  Air  velocities  are 
specified  in  terms  of  maximum  allowable  in  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany,  France,  and  the  Soviet  Union,  and 
as  minimum  required  in  Canada,  Poland,  and  the  United 
Kingdom.  Minimums  or  maximums,  however,  are  deter- 
mined largely  by  the  function  of  the  entry,  whether  a 
haulage  route,  development  entry,  head,  or  tailgate.  Air 
velocities  in  the  United  States  are  specified  in  terms  of 
minimum  allowable  for  face  ventilation  and  maximum 
allowable  for  trolley  haulageways. 

Permissible  methane  levels  vary,  with  a  maximum  1.0 
pet  by  volume  standard  in  all  countries  but  Canada  and  the 
United  Kingdom,  which  allow  1.25  pet.  Allowable  exemp- 
tions are  given  in  all  countries  but  Great  Britain,  with 
levels  up  to  2.0  pet  (2.5  pet  in  Canada)  return  air  from  a 
bleeder  system,  where  electrical  equipment  is  absent,  or 
where  automatic  shutoffs  are  present  on  all  electrical 
equipment  (6).  Again,  such  exemptions  depend  on  the  use 
of  the  entry  under  consideration. 

When  regulations  on  the  ventilation  of  longwall  oper- 
ations are  compared,  it  is  necessary  to  consider  two 


separate  cases-developing  the  entry  and  mining  the  long- 
wall  panel.  U.S.  regulations  allow  permanent  ventilation 
dividers  to  be  used  and  require  the  installation  of  brattice 
line  or  similar  device  from  the  "last  open  crosscut"  (a 
room-and-pillar  mining  phrase  that  defines  the  point  where 
permanent  ventilation  controls  end)  to  within  10  ft  of  the 
deepest  penetration  of  the  face  (30  CFR  75.302-1,  1989). 
Auxiliary  fans  and  tubing  may  be  used  in  lieu  of  brattice 
systems;  however,  their  use  is  controlled  by  the  mini- 
mum air  velocity  and  quantity  of  air  required  at  the  face 
(30  CFR  75.302-4,  1989).  Regulations  concerning  inter- 
ruption of  the  primary  ventilation  system  and  scheduled 
idle  periods,  such  as  weekend  and  idle  shifts,  limit  the 
practical  distance  that  entries  can  be  ventilated  using 
auxiliary  ventilation.  Ventilation  must  be  provided  by  the 
primary  air  current  from  the  main  fan  during  these  peri- 
ods, thus  auxiliary  ventilation  is  only  practical  between  the 
last  open  crosscut  and  the  face,  limiting  its  use  to  a  dis- 
tance of  a  few  hundred  feet. 

European  mining  regulations,  on  the  other  hand,  either 
restrict  the  use  of  permanent  air  dividers  (as  in  the 
United  Kingdom  and  the  Soviet  Union)  or  forbid  their  use 
entirely  (France,  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany,  and 
Poland).  Development  entries  are  ventilated  instead  with 
mandatory  auxiliary  systems.  They  may  be  operated  over 
unlimited  distances  and  may  be  blowing,  exhausting,  or 
combination  fans  connected  to  air  ducts.  Blowing-type 
systems  generally  predominate.  This  is  very  different  from 
U.S.  practice  where  regulations  restrict  the  use  of  auxil- 
iary ventilation  systems,  that  is,  ventilation  fans  and 
tubing,  as  the  primary  means  of  ventilating  a  working  area 
(30  CFR  75.302-4,  1989). 

One  of  the  major  differences  between  U.S.  and 
European  mining  regulations,  in  regard  to  single-entry 
development,  is  the  U.S.  requirement  that  every  working 
place  must  have  at  least  two  distinct,  separately  ventilated 
escapeways  (30  CFR  75.1704,  1989).  One  must  be  in  an 
intake  air  split  and  must  not  be  used  for  belt  or  trolley 
haulage.  Minimum  width  for  this  route  is  set  at  6  ft. 
Because  multiple  entries  are  the  rule  in  the  United  States, 
this  requirement  is  usually  met  with  no  difficulty.  It  does, 
however,  place  a  major  constraint  upon  the  use  of  single 
entries  and  precludes  the  use  of  European-style  single 
entries  altogether.  Those  single  entries  driven  in  the 
United  States  to  date  have  complied  with  the  law  by 
driving  one  large  entry  and  dividing  it  into  two  entries, 


using  permanent,  airtight  center  dividers.  Escape  doors 
were  included  at  regular  intervals  in  dividers. 

Ventilation  during  the  production  phase  of  longwall 
mining  is  basically  the  same  in  Europe  and  the  United 
States,  with  the  major  difference  found  in  the  way  the  gob 
is  ventilated.  By  law,  abandoned  workings  must  be  sealed 
in  every  European  country  that  uses  single  entries.  U.S. 
law,  on  the  other  hand,  requires  them  to  be  ventilated 
using  a  bleeder  system  or  to  be  sealed  only  as  a  last  resort. 
No  other  country  requires  ventilation  of  the  gob.  This  is 
because  in  Europe  methane  buildup  in  the  gob  is  not 
considered  to  be  a  problem  because  of  the  absence  of 
large  open  cavities  where  methane  could  accumulate.  If 
the  gob  is  not  ventilated,  it  is  argued,  spontaneous  com- 
bustion is  impossible  because  of  the  lack  of  oxygen,  and 
other  sources  of  ignition  that  could  set  off  a  fire  are  not 
present.  In  the  rare  case  that  a  methane  explosion  should 
occur,  the  broken  rock  and  dirt  filling  the  gob  would  act  as 
a  protective  barrier  and  extinguish  any  flame  before  severe 
damage  was  done. 

U.S.  regulations  require  bleeder  systems  precisely 
because  the  large,  open  gob  areas  left  when  workings  are 
mined  out  often  become  filled  with  gas.  Bleeders  are  very 
effective  in  draining  accumulated  methane  and  controlling 
the  problem  of  potential  explosions. 

In  summary,  longwall  mining,  using  single  entries  as 
gate  roads  has  become  the  norm  in  major  coal-producing 
countries  other  than  the  United  States.  By  late  1983,  an 
estimated  50  pet  of  the  world's  underground  coal  pro- 
duction was  attributed  to  longwall  mining  (8).  This  is 
because  of  large  potential  productivity  gains  and  because 
of  the  solutions  it  offers  to  problems  inherent  in  un- 
derground mining.  These  problems  include  the  mining 
of  deep,  gassy,  unstable  seams  and/or  the  economic 
necessity  of  recovering  reserves  previously  left  to  control 
subsidence  or  to  protect  subsequent  work  areas.  The 
methods  used  to  develop,  ventilate,  and  support  these 
entries,  and  to  mine  longwall  panels  have  evolved  in 
response  to  the  varied  situations  and  necessities  ex- 
perienced. Consequently,  legal  requirements  or  restric- 
tions in  other  countries  have  developed  specifically  to 
control  single-entry  longwall  mining.  This  is  in  sharp 
contrast  to  U.S.  regulations  concerning  longwalls  and 
single  entries  where  regulations  have  been  extended  or 
adapted  from  legislation  intended  for  underground  room- 
and-pillar  mining. 


U.S.  SINGLE-ENTRY  STUDIES 


Two  single-entry  development  projects  were  conducted 
in  the  United  States  during  the  1970's:  the  Sunnyside 
project  at  Kaiser  Steel  Corp.'s  Sunnyside  No.  1  Mine  in 
Utah  and  the  TBM  project  at  EACC's  Federal  No.  2  Mine 
in  West  Virginia.  The  main  similarity  between  the  two 
projects  was  that  they  were  single-entry  drivages,  divided 
to  form  two  compartments  to  comply  with  coal  mine  safety 
regulations  concerning  ventilation,  location  of  electrical 
equipment,  and  escapeways.     Other  than  this,  the  two 


projects  were  different  in  many  respects.  A  description  of 
each  of  these  projects  will  help  to  point  out  their  simi- 
larities and  differences,  as  well  as  problems  that  impede 
single-entry  development  in  this  country. 

SUNNYSIDE  PROJECT 

The  Sunnyside  project  was  a  9-year  research  study, 
begim  in  1971,  that  had  the  objective  of  determining 


whether  a  single  entry  supported  down  the  center  by  a 
fire-resistant  partition  could  be  considered  equal  to  or 
better  than  a  double-entry  system.  The  project  was  con- 
ducted under  a  cooperative  agreement  between  Kaiser 
Steel  Corp.  and  the  Bureau's  Spokane  Research  Center 
(SRC).  Other  participants  included  the  Bureau's  Denver 
Research  Center  and  the  U.S.  Mine  Safety  and  Health 
Administration  (MSHA). 

The  Sunnyside  single-entry  study  was  originally  begun 
in  the  No.  2  Mine  but  was  moved  to  the  No.  1  Mine  when 
several  faults  and  an  overlying  minable  coal  seam  were 
discovered  at  the  original  site.  Several  publications 
describe  the  early  phases  of  this  experiment  (1,  12-13), 
and  details  of  the  project  will  not  be  described  in  this 
report.  However,  a  few  important  points  should  be  made. 
The  new  site  was  adjacent  to  several  mined-out  longwall 
panels,  including  one  that  had  just  begun  production  when 
the  change  in  location  was  made  (fig.  2).  These  panels 
were  4,500  ft  long,  500  to  600  ft  wide,  and  had  an  average 
seam  height  of  6  ft.  An  extensive  study  was  made  of  the 
geology  of  the  area  in  conjunction  with  the  Sunnyside 
experiment.  This  study  included  diamond-drilled  columns 
from  the  floor  and  roof  of  nearly  20  areas  where  ground 
movements  were  monitored.  This  geological  information 
is  available  in  a  Bureau  Report  of  Investigations  (14). 

As  originally  planned,  the  purpose  of  the  Sunnyside 
project  was  to  study  three  major  factors:  ground  control, 


ventilation,  and  safety  procedures.  Over  1,200  instruments 
were  installed  during  the  9-year  trial  period.  These  instru- 
ments monitored  roof-to-floor  closure,  entry  deformation, 
and  load  on  cribs,  posts,  and  roof  bolts,  which  were  the 
primary  supports  used.  A  Bureau  open-file  report  details 
the  installation  of  the  instruments  and  results  of  the 
monitoring  efforts  (15). 

Two  longwall  development  headings  were  driven  in  con- 
nection with  the  project.  The  first  heading  began  in  May 
1973  and  was  driven  a  total  of  4,500  ft.  The  first  1,500  ft 
was  driven  as  a  single  entry  followed  by  a  1,500-ft  section 
of  double  entry.  The  final  section  was  also  completed  as 
a  single  entry.  This  configuration  allowed  a  good  com- 
parison to  be  made  between  single-  and  double-entry 
behavior.  The  single-entry  sections  were  6  ft  high  and 
26  ft  wide,  divided  down  the  center  by  a  row  of  open  wood 
cribs  on  7-ft  centers.  A  fireproof  divider  composed  of 
steel  panels  coated  with  a  fire-retardant  sealant  was 
attached  to  this  crib  line.  Escape  doors  were  installed 
every  100  ft  to  comply  with  regulations  requiring  access 
between  escapeways.  Fresh  air  was  coursed  to  the  working 
area  on  the  left  side  of  the  divider  and  exhausted  on  the 
right.  The  conveyor  belt  was  located  in  the  exhaust  air 
course,  while  the  main  supply  and  travel  route  was  located 
in  the  fresh  air  course  (16). 

Although  no  major  problems  were  encountered,  the 
first  entry  took  14  months  to  complete,  which  was  longer 


Figure  2.-Sunnyside  single-entry  project 


than  originally  anticipated.  The  slow  progress  was  due  to 
many  things,  including  an  inexperienced  crew  and  lack  of 
adequate  working  space.  The  original  plan  was  to  have  the 
bolter  follow  closely  behind  the  continuous  miner  used  to 
drive  the  entry.  An  MSHA  regulation  prohibiting  more 
than  one  major  piece  of  equipment  operating  on  the  same 
air  split  made  this  impossible,  however.  Consequently, 
whenever  the  mining  machine  finished  a  cut,  it  was 
trammed  out  and  sat  idle  until  the  bolting  crew  finished. 
This  also  idled  the  shuttle  car  used  to  transport  the  cut 
coal  to  the  section  belt  and  resulted  in  a  serious  waste  of 
labor. 

Another  time-consuming  operation  was  the  construction 
of  the  center  crib  line  and  divider  wall.  A  maximum  of 
150  ft  was  allowed  between  the  permanent  divider  and  the 
face,  with  the  line  brattice  used  to  divide  and  ventilate 
this  area.  As  the  face  progressed  further  from  the  main 
haulageway,  the  amount  of  delay  due  to  center  wall 
construction  increased.  Crib  blocks,  metal  panels,  sealant, 
and  all  other  supplies,  such  as  bolting  materials  and  spare 
parts,  had  to  be  brought  into  the  entry  by  battery  car. 
This  proved  to  be  slow  and  inefficient.  The  problem  was 
compounded  by  the  limited  space  in  the  entry  itself.  Only 
the  intake  half  of  the  entry  was  available  for  transpor- 
tation, mining,  and  support  functions.  Progress  was  often 
impeded  by  lack  of  operating  room. 

Ventilation  was  another  problem.  Metal  landing  mats 
were  used  in  the  bolting  pattern  to  support  the  roof.  They 
spanned  the  entry,  making  it  very  difficult  for  the  divider 
wall  to  create  an  airtight  seal.  The  divider  wall  itself  was 
the  source  of  many  leaks.  As  the  roof  converged,  it  tended 
to  break  the  sprayed  sealant  away  from  the  wall,  causing 
air  leakage,  and  thus  became  a  major  maintenance  prob- 
lem. Methane  concentrations  over  the  allowable  1.0  pet 
shut  the  section  down  repeatedly,  requiring  the  crew  to 
stop  production  and  seal  leaks,  reroute  brattice,  or  simply 
wait  for  the  methane  to  dissipate.  The  use  of  auxiliary 
ventilation  is  required  in  most  European  mines,  but  is 
severely  limited  in  U.S.  mines  in  areas  other  than  between 
the  last  open  crosscut  and  the  face.  As  the  development 
face  progressed  further  into  the  coal  block,  however,  it 
became  increasingly  hard  for  the  mine  ventilation  system 
to  provide  adequate  air  to  the  face,  particularly  in  gassy 
areas. 

Advance  rates  for  the  1,500-ft  section  of  double  entry 
showed  some  improvement  over  the  first  single-entry 
section.  This  was  attributed  to  the  crew's  familiarity  with 
the  mining  method  and  increased  working  space,  as  well  as 
the  elimination  of  the  center  wall. 

During  the  mining  of  the  first  longwall  panel,  it  became 
obvious  that  the  single  row  of  wood  cribs  neither  support- 
ed the  entry  adequately  nor  created  a  clean  break  line  for 
the  gob.  Additional  rows  of  cribs,  as  well  as  steel  arches, 
wood  posts,  and  steel  beams,  were  used  to  maintain  the 
entry,  but  in  spite  of  the  extra  supports,  it  was  often  neces- 
sary to  remove  floor  rock  to  provide  adequate  travel  space. 
The  maintenance  cost  to  keep  the  entry  open  for  use  as  a 
double  gate  made  it  obvious  that  the  single  entry,  as 
designed,  would  not  perform  as  desired.   This  realization 


brought  about  a  redesign  of  the  next  single  entry  and  the 
decision  to  test  a  new  type  of  support. 

In  April  1976,  a  63-ft  section  of  fiber-reinforced 
concrete  cribs  was  installed  about  halfway  into  the  first 
single-entry  section.  Wooden  blocking  materials  were  used 
between  the  concrete  cribs  and  the  roof  to  absorb  initial 
loads  and  to  ensure  a  tight  fit  to  the  roof.  The  concrete 
crib  line  (fig.  3)  was  very  successful.  Not  only  did  that 
section  of  the  entry  maintain  its  original  height  without 
extra  supports,  but  a  clean  break  line  was  observed  on  the 
gob  side,  with  little  or  no  punching  of  the  cribs  through  the 
roof,  as  was  originally  feared. 

The  driving  of  the  second  4,500-ft  single  entry  was 
begun  in  September  1975  and  completed  in  August  1976. 
This  entry  was  designed  to  be  used  only  as  a  headgate  for 
a  single  longwall  panel.  No  effort  was  made  to  hold  it 
open  to  serve  as  a  tailgate  for  the  adjacent  panel.  This 
entry  was  21  ft  wide  and  was  supported  down  the  center  by 
a  row  of  wood  posts  on  4-ft  centers  (fig.  4).  The  usual 
bolting  pattern  supported  the  rest  of  the  entry.  A  fire- 
resistant  wall  was  constructed  using  metal  panels  attached 
to  the  posts  and  coated  with  a  sealant  (fig.  5).  Metal 
escape  doors  were  again  installed  every  100  ft. 

Advance  rates  for  the  second  single  entry  were  higher 
than  the  average  for  a  two-entry  system,  and  nearly  double 
those  achieved  on  the  first  single  entry.  Several  factors 
contributed  to  this.  The  crew  was  more  experienced,  the 
support  wall  was  simpler  and  easier  to  install,  and 
alignment  of  the  entry  was  accomplished  using  a  laser  gun, 
which  simplified  the  process.  Perhaps  the  two  major  dif- 
ferences, however,  were  changes  in  the  haulage  and 
ventilation  systems.  The  shuttle  car  was  replaced  by  a 
bridge  conveyor  from  the  back  of  the  continuous  miner  to 
a  walking  tailpiece  at  the  end  of  the  belt  (fig.  6).  A  maxi- 
mum of  120  ft  could  be  mined  before  the  tailpiece  was 
advanced.  Mine  management  estimated  that  this  change 
alone  improved  single-entry  advance  rates  2.5  times  (17). 

Ventilation  was  augmented  using  two  auxiliary  fans  and 
fiberglass  tubing.  The  tubing  used  for  intake  was  equipped 
with  a  flexible  endpiece  so  that  air  could  be  directed 
toward  problem  areas.  Because  of  this  dual  system,  there 
was  little  time  lost  because  of  forced  work  stoppages 
caused  by  high  methane  concentrations. 

A  final  cost  comparison  between  the  development  of 
the  Sunnyside  single  and  double  entries  shows  that,  while 
advance  rates  were  faster  for  a  single-entry  system,  the 
overall  cost  was  42  pet  higher  than  for  a  double-entry 
system  (17).  One  reason  for  this  was  the  higher  productiv- 
ity rate  for  double  entries  (there  is  more  coal  to  be  ex- 
tracted, hence  more  production).  The  main  reason,  how- 
ever, was  that  the  mining  cycle  only  allowed  one  operation 
to  occur  at  a  time.  Since  the  union  did  not  allow  mining 
machine  operators  to  also  operate  bolting  machines,  work- 
ers and  their  equipment  sat  idle  at  least  50  pet  of  each 
shift.  When  labor  costs  make  up  an  estimated  57  pet  of 
the  total  production  costs,  it  is  easy  to  see  why  single 
entries  driven  with  cyclic  systems  are  not  competitive  (17). 

The  Sunnyside  single-entry  project  was  considered  a 
success  by  the  Bureau  in  terms  of  reducing  ground  control 


Figure  3.-Concrete  crib  line  in  17th  L  single  entry. 


problems  in  deep  coal  mines.  Many  potential  advantages 
of  single  entries  were  brought  out  by  the  trials.  These 
advantages  included  reduction  of  bumps  by  eliminating 
chain  pillars  and  decreasing  the  number  of  openings,  faster 
development  rates,  elimination  of  problems  caused  by 
pillar  remnants,  extraction  rates  for  panels  approaching 
100  pet,  reduction  of  methane  emission  from  exposed  ribs, 
and  simplification  of  mining  procedures  due  to  straight- 
line  development  with  no  intersections.  The  major 
disadvantages  listed  by  the  Sunnyside  Mine  management 
were  losses  in  productivity,  increased  costs  to  maintain  the 
single  entry  as  a  tailgate,  and  the  possibility  that  the  center 
wall  would  fail  to  provide  a  smoke-free  escapeway  should 
a  fire  occur  on  the  belt  or  equipment  (17). 

An  important  point  that  should  be  noted  when  judging 
the  success  of  the  project  is  the  marked  improvement  in 
the  construction  of  the  second  single  entry.  Design 
changes  necessitated  by  failures  in  the  first  panel  devel- 
opment were  successful  in  eliminating  many  of  the  early 
problems.  This  demonstrates  the  evolutionary  process  that 


will  be  necessary  for  the  successful  implementation  of 
single-entry  systems  in  the  United  States. 

TUNNEL-BORING  MACHINE  PROJECT 

The  TBM  project  was  proposed  in  1971  by  EACC.  Its 
purpose  was  to  test  the  technical  and  economic  feasibility 
of  developing  coal  mines  with  TBM's.  The  eventual 
demonstration  was  cosponsored  by  EACC  and  the 
Bureau's  High  Speed  Coal-Mine  Development  Sub- 
Systems  program.  SRC  served  as  principal  investigator  for 
the  full  term  of  the  project,  from  1974  to  1979,  even 
though  the  program  was  transferred  to  DOE  in  1977. 

The  concept  of  using  a  TBM  for  driving  develop- 
ment headings  is  a  departure  from  the  traditional  U.S. 
development  strategy  discussed  earlier  with  regard  to 
European  development  methods.  The  TBM  concept  fol- 
lows the  European  strategy  of  developing  a  coal  property 
from  its  center  outward  to  its  boundaries  and  then  mining 
inward,  leaving  the  mined-out  areas  behind.   Mined-out 


10 


Figure  4.-Single-entry  center  wall  in  18th  L,  right  side. 


Figure  5.-Single-entry  center  wall  In  18th  L,  left  side. 


11 


ELEVATION 

Continuous    miner        Conveyor  Belt 


12 


Scale,  ft 


"^BI- 
SECTION A-A 

Figure  6.-Elevation  and  plan  view  of  Sunnyside  split  single  entry. 


areas  are  abandoned,  so  very  little  coal  must  be  left  in 
place  for  support.  Maintenance  of  development  headings 
is  minimized  because  little  ground  is  disturbed  during 
development,  and  once  an  area  has  been  mined  out,  the 
development  headings  may  also  be  abandoned.  This  strat- 
egy is,  of  course,  in  conflict  with  present  U.S.  regulations 
regarding  gob  ventilation;  however,  its  advantages  cannot 
be  overlooked,  that  is,  rapid  development,  improved  ex- 
traction ratio,  improved  subsidence  control,  and  improved 
ground  control.  This  strategy  also  allows  flexibility  in 
product  control  and,  in  gaseous  mines,  the  degasification 
of  the  coal  prior  to  mining  (18). 

The  site  selected  for  the  project  was  the  Northeast 
Mains  area  of  EACC's  Federal  No.  2  property  where  ear- 
lier attempts  at  conventional  development  had  failed. 
Development  of  a  10-entry  heading  had  been  halted  in  the 
area  some  years  before  because  of  excessive  methane. 
Although  the  high  concentrations  of  methane  presented 
special  problems,  successful  implementation  would  prove 
that  single  entries  could  be  driven  in  extremely  gassy  coal. 

At  the  time  of  the  project,  McGuire  Corp.  of  Fort 
Smith,  AR,  operated  the  only  permissible  TBM  in  the 
country.  The  machine  had  been  used  to  drive  slopes  down 
to  coal  seams  and  could  be  modified  to  drive  in  coal 
without  going  through  the  lengthy  approval  procedures 


required  for  new  machines.  McGuire  was  subcontracted 
by  EACC,  and  preparation  for  the  project  began  in  1974. 
The  TBM  was  modified  to  excavate  an  18-ft-diam  tunnel 
a  distance  of  6,000  ft  to  intersect  a  shaft  constructed  for 
the  project. 

The  assembled  TBM  system  was  relatively  complex  for 
a  coal  mining  operation  (fig.  7).  The  basic  machine  con- 
sisted of  a  primary  unit  and  a  secondary  unit.  The  primary 
unit  included  the  cutterhead,  loading  buckets,  roof  bolters, 
and  hydraulic  gripping  rams  (wall  grippers).  The  second- 
ary unit  provided  the  electric  and  hydraulic  power  for  the 
TBM  system.  The  combined  units  were  50  ft  long  and 
weighed  about  35  st.  Immediately  behind  the  secondary 
unit,  a  50-ft  skid-mounted  trailing  unit  (tertiary  unit)  was 
used  to  provide  the  following  support  functions:  (1)  track 
installation,  (2)  application  of  shotcrete,  and  (3)  divider 
support  beam  installation.  The  trailing  unit  was  equipped 
with  a  monorail  and  air-powered  cranes  to  handle  heavy 
equipment  and  materials. 

The  primary,  secondary,  and  trailing  units  included  steel 
panels  dividing  the  tunnel  entry  into  upper  and  lower  com- 
partments (fig.  8).  Steel  divider  panels  also  trailed  these 
units  for  a  distance  of  320  ft  to  an  automatic  mine-car 
loading  station.  These  sliding  steel  dividers  carried  the 
primary  haulage  system-an  extendable  conveyor  formed  by 


12 


Secondary  conveyor 

ill  iiTilV~i/i'i^W/AAV 


Canopy 

Cutterhead 


Primary  conveyor       Roof  bo|ter 


Wall  gripper 


Hydraulic  pump 


Drive  motor  Belly  jack 

Reset  jack 


Operator's  station 

Figure  7.-Tunnel-boring  machine. 


Degasification  equipment 
Shotcrete  system 


Tunnel  boring  machine 


V 

H 

'/ 

//AW 

w// 

/Ml 

\ 

*// 

//a 

1 

' 

: 

1 

* 

X 

D 
0 

£ 

r 

i   , 

V 

1 

' 

V 

1 

T 

i 

1 

//*Ul 

\\V>// 

//i 

411 

W^ 

'/ 

\ 

* 

PLAN  VIEW 


SECTION    SECTION 
A-A  B-B 


0    6  12 

i i i 

Scale,  ft 


Figure  8.-Elevation  and  plan  view  of  TBM  split  single  entry. 


13 


two  belts.  Permanent  concrete  panels,  called  flexicore, 
were  installed  beneath  a  raised  portion  of  the  temporary 
divider  just  ahead  of  the  loading  station.  Together,  the 
sliding  steel  and  the  flexicore  provided  a  continuous, 
horizontal  divider  from  the  entrance  of  the  tunnel  to  the 
face.  Ventilation  air  was  directed  through  the  lower  com- 
partment to  the  face  and  exhausted  through  the  upper 
compartment.  Ten-ton  mine  cars  were  loaded  at  the  load- 
ing station  on  a  specially  designed  double-track  carriage 
called  a  California  switch.  This  unit  was  390  ft  long  with 
a  40-ft  ramp  up  from  the  main  track.  The  California 
switch  followed  the  TBM  as  it  advanced  by  riding  on  the 
main  track.  The  entire  TBM  system  was  approximately 
790  ft  long  when  fully  extended,  but  could  collapse  to 
about  540  ft  when  the  loading  chute  and  California  switch 
were  moved  up.  This  was  done  at  approximately  250-ft 
intervals. 

The  TBM  was  a  system  designed  to  excavate,  support, 
and  construct  the  tunnel  in  one  continuous  operation.  Ad- 
ditional support  operations  were  carried  out  between  the 
trailing  unit  and  the  front  end  of  the  California  switch. 
Within  this  area,  service  lines  were  installed,  degasification 
holes  were  drilled,  and  a  3-in  layer  of  shotcrete  was  ap- 
plied to  the  walls.  Two  roof  bolting  machines  located  on 
the  primary  unit  provided  all  the  immediate  roof  support 
that  was  necessary.  Installation  of  the  flexicore  divider 
took  place  from  atop  the  California  switch,  beneath  a 
raised  portion  of  the  sliding  steel  divider.  It  was  antic- 
ipated that  such  a  system  would  be  capable  of  100  ft  of 
advance  per  day,  as  had  been  accomplished  with  TBM  sys- 
tems used  on  civil  engineering  projects.  Actual  advance 
rates,  however,  were  much  lower  because  of  a  number  of 
operational,  design,  and  labor  problems. 

Boring  began  in  January  1976  with  only  the  primary  and 
secondary  units  in  operation.  As  the  TBM  advanced,  the 
trailings  sections  of  the  system  were  added  until  the  entire 
system  was  assembled.  Boring  with  the  complete  system 
did  not  begin  until  January  1977.  The  length  of  time  taken 
to  assemble  the  total  system  was  a  reflection  of  the  prob- 
lems incurred  in  making  the  system  comply  with  mining 
regulations. 

The  final  contract  report  concerning  the  TBM  project 
(18)  gives  an  account  of  the  problems  associated  with  the 
project  from  start  to  finish.  Many  of  these  problems  were 
associated  with  equipment  design  or  failure  and  with  labor 
or  management  issues.  The  major  concerns,  however,  in- 
volved the  single-entry  aspects  of  the  project.  Fire  pre- 
vention is  essential  in  any  single  entry,  raising  questions  of 
electrical  permissibility.  In  Europe,  all  equipment  within 
a  single  entry  must  be  permissible.  This  was  the  primary 
difference  between  European  regulations  and  U.S.  prac- 
tices concerning  equipment.  Other  differences  were  in- 
fluenced either  directly  or  indirectly  by  the  determination 
of  where  permissible  equipment  would  be  allowed.  In 
both  the  Sunnyside  and  the  TBM  projects,  the  last  open 
crosscut  was  generally  determined  by  MSHA  to  be  the  end 
of  the  permanent  dividers.  In  the  case  of  the  TBM 
project,  however,  a  decision  was  made  not  to  allow  non- 
permissible  equipment  within  the  mouth  of  the  tunnel. 


This  effectively  made  the  tunnel  mouth  the  last  open 
crosscut.  The  one  exception  to  this  rule  was  the  use  of 
nonpermissible  battery-powered  locomotives  in  the  tunnel 
behind  the  end  of  the  permanent  dividers.  This  allowance 
was  granted  by  MSHA  because  no  permissible  locomotives 
were  available  and  their  construction  would  have  been  very 
costly  and  would  have  delayed  the  project  by  many 
months. 

The  decision  to  use  only  permissible  equipment  in 
the  tunnel  affected  another  critical  area.  Because  of  the 
length  of  the  entry,  the  operating  voltage  (480  V)  could 
not  be  carried  to  the  machine  by  a  cable  of  practical  size. 
It  was  necessary  to  use  a  transformer  on  the  secondary 
unit  to  reduce  the  primary  mine  voltage  of  7,200  V  to 
480  V.  Permissible  transformers  are  not  uncommon,  but 
one  using  7,200- V,  l,000-kV»A  primary  power  had  never 
been  built.  In  addition,  30  CFR  18.47  (d)  (5)  implies 
that  face  voltage  shall  not  exceed  4,160  V.  During  the 
initial  boring  phase,  a  480-V  trailing  cable  was  used  while 
boring  the  725-ft  length  required  to  assemble  the  com- 
plete system.  Concurrently,  a  variance  was  sought  under 
30  CFR  18.47  (d)  (6),  which  allows  MSHA  to  approve 
high-voltage  equipment,  provided  additional  safeguards  are 
met.  Many  delays  occurred  during  the  approval  process. 
Initial  testing  of  a  7,200-  to  480-V  transformer  at  the 
Westinghouse  High  Power  Laboratory  in  Pittsburgh,  PA, 
led  to  improvements  and  eventual  approval. 

Equipment  permissibility  is,  of  course,  required  in 
underground  coal  mines  because  of  the  explosive  atmos- 
phere created  by  the  generation  of  coal  dust  and  the  lib- 
eration of  methane.  In  addition  to  permissibility,  the 
amount  of  dust  and  methane  in  the  ventilating  air  was  also 
strictly  regulated.  The  Northeast  Mains  area  at  the 
Federal  No.  2  Mine  had  an  established  history  of  pro- 
ducing excessive  methane.  That  area  of  the  mine  had  al- 
ready been  involved  in  a  degasification  project  with  the 
Bureau's  Pittsburgh  Research  Center,  so  a  degasification 
plan  was  devised  to  incorporate  the  tunnel  into  the  existing 
system.  The  plan  was  to  drill  holes  angled  into  the  coal 
ahead  of  the  tunnel  face  and  vent  the  methane  through  a 
6-in  pipeline  and  a  borehole  to  the  surface.  These  3.5-in 
holes  were  drilled  into  alternating  ribs  at  250-ft  intervals 
as  soon  as  the  trailing  unit  had  passed  and  were  angled 
20°  from  the  tunnel  centerline  to  place  them  ahead  of  the 
face. 

Many  problems  were  encountered  with  the  degasifica- 
tion system  and  it  was  eventually  abandoned.  As  in  the 
Sunnyside  project,  auxiliary  face  ventilation  was  used  to 
control  methane  liberated  during  excavation.  Several  "hot 
spots"  were  encountered  in  the  tunnel  that  halted  work 
until  the  methane  level  was  reduced,  particularly  toward 
the  end  of  the  project  when  advance  rates  were  high.  The 
most  important  control  measure  used,  however,  was  apply- 
ing shotcrete  to  the  tunnel  walls,  which  sealed  the  coal 
from  the  atmosphere  and  prevented  contamination  of  the 
intake  air  before  it  reached  the  face.  Methane  liberation 
in  gaseous  coal  mines  will  always  present  a  special  prob- 
lem in  single  entries  and  will  require  that  some  type  of 
sealant  be  used  or  that  other  measures  be  taken. 


14 


Another  ventilation  problem  common  to  both  the 
Sunnyside  and  the  TBM  projects  was  leaks  in  the  divider 
between  the  intake  and  return  airways.  Because  of  the 
experimental  nature  of  the  TBM  project,  MSHA  required 
that  50,000  cfm  of  intake  air  be  supplied  to  a  control  point 
behind  the  trailing  unit.  Early  in  the  project,  it  was 
recognized  that  maintaining  this  airflow  would  be  a  prob- 
lem, and  a  detailed  ventilation  study  was  begun  (19).  The 
study  concluded  that  there  would  be  sufficient  airflow  to 
complete  the  tunnel  only  if  leaks  in  the  divider  could  be 
controlled.  The  major  sources  of  the  leaks  were  cracks 
between  the  members  of  the  permanent  dividers  and  poor 
seals  around  air-lock  doors  in  the  dividers.  Leaks  were 
sealed  on  a  continual  basis  throughout  the  project,  but 
even  so,  only  50  pet  of  the  air  entering  the  single  entry 
actually  reached  the  face.  This  is  considered  a  major 
obstacle  to  this  type  of  single-entry  arrangement.  If  multi- 
compartment single  entries  are  to  be  used,  improvements 
in  methods  of  sealing  divider  walls  will  be  necessary. 

Another  major  obstacle  to  the  TBM  project  was  the 
divider  wall  construction.  As  discussed  earlier,  the  split 
single  entry  was  developed  as  a  means  of  driving  a  single 
entry  while  at  the  same  time  complying  with  the  CFR  and 


State  mining  laws  concerning  separate  escapeways  from 
each  working  area.  For  a  divider  wall  to  serve  as  a 
substitute  for  a  line  of  chain  pillars  and  stoppings,  it  has  to 
prevent  a  fire  or  explosion  on  either  side  of  the  divider 
from  propagating  to  the  other  side  (30  CFR  75.329-2). 
This  meant  that  the  divider  wall  had  to  be  built  from  sub- 
stantial materials.  The  divider  wall  was  also  required  to 
have  doors  spaced  every  100  ft  to  allow  workers  to  pass 
from  one  side  to  the  other.  Most  of  the  doors  were  2  by 
2  ft,  but  every  fifth  door  was  much  larger  and  had  a  stair- 
way that  would  allow  an  injured  worker  to  be  carried 
through  on  a  stretcher  (fig.  9). 

An  industrial  engineering  study  conducted  for  the 
Bureau  identified  the  installation  of  the  divider  wall  as  the 
most  time-consuming  task  in  overall  tunnel  construction. 
Therefore,  the  divider  wall  not  only  created  problems  with 
ventilation,  but  its  construction  would  have  controlled  the 
TBM  excavation  rate  had  it  not  been  for  many  other  un- 
scheduled delays.  During  the  Sunnyside  project,  the  divid- 
er wall  created  ventilation  problems  and  its  construction 
was  a  major  obstacle  to  rapid  development  of  the  entry, 
particularly  because  of  the  difficulties  encountered  while 
bringing  construction  supplies  in,  but  also  because  of  the 


Figure  9.-Lower  compartment  of  entry  developed  by  TBM. 


15 


time  used  to  build  the  wall,  during  which  no  mining 
occurred.  Experience  gathered  from  both  projects  has 
shown  that  divider  wall  construction  and  maintenance  will 
be  major  obstacles  to  the  efficient  driving  of  split  single 
entries. 

The  single-entry  projects  in  the  United  States  have 
provided  valuable  experience  to  the  mining  industry.  The 


most  obvious  lesson  was  that  in  order  to  bring  European 
single  entries  into  compliance  with  U.S.  law,  changes 
were  made  that  created  problems  in  construction  and 
ventilation.  These  problems  muted  the  primary  reasons 
for  single-entry  development,  that  is,  improved  ground 
control,  rapid  development,  and  greater  overall  safety 
under  severe  mining  conditions. 


OTHER  SINGLE-ENTRY  RESEARCH  STUDIES  IN  UNITED  STATES 


Two  other  studies  initiated  by  the  Bureau  have  contrib- 
uted significantly  to  single-entry  research  in  this  country. 
The  first  of  these  studies  was  conducted  by  NAMCO  and 
resulted  in  a  report  entitled  "Single-Entry  Longwall  Study" 
(6).  The  second  was  a  study  of  the  design  of  a  single-entry 
development  system  for  retreat  longwall  mining  systems, 
conducted  by  Ketron.  These  and  several  other  related 
studies  will  be  discussed  briefly  in  the  following  sections. 

NORTH  AMERICAN  MINING  CONSULTANTS  STUDY 

The  purposes  of  the  NAMCO  study  were  threefold: 
first,  to  identify  State  and  Federal  regulations  that  con- 
strain driving  longwall  development  panels;  second,  to 
propose  optional  single-entry  layouts  and  mine  designs; 
and  third,  to  compare  costs  between  the  proposed  designs 
and  conventional  panel  development. 

This  study  concluded  that  true  single-entry  devel- 
opments are  prohibited  by  current  regulations.  Under 
30  CFR  75.1704  and  30  CFR  75.1704-1  (1989),  every  active 
workplace  is  required  to  have  two  separate  escapeways, 
one  of  which  must  be  located  in  intake  air.  The  laws  of 
several  states  as  well  as  30  CFR  75.302  (1989)  control  the 
use  of  auxiliary  ventilation  systems  and  limit  their  use  to 
the  working  face.  Since  1970,  30  CFR  75.326  (1989)  has 
prohibited  the  use  of  belt  conveyors  in  intake  or  return  air 
passages,  limiting  their  installation  to  separate  compart- 
ments carrying  reduced  airflows.  Two  other  regulations, 
30  CFR  75.316-2  and  30  CFR  75.311  (1989),  restrict  the 
use  of  single  entries  for  longwall  panel  development  by 
requiring  bleeder  systems  for  mined  panels  and  by  pro- 
hibiting any  intake  air  containing  more  than  0.25  pet 
methane  from  passing  a  gob  area  if  it  is  to  be  used  to 
ventilate  an  active  working  face.  For  both  the  Sunnyside 
and  TBM  projects,  regulations  prohibiting  the  installation 
of  belt  conveyors  in  return  air  were  waived  under  a  grand- 
father clause,  and  the  separate  ventilation  and  escapeway 
requirements  were  met  with  the  split-entry  arrangement. 

The  NAMCO  study  also  compared  the  mining  laws  of 
the  United  States  with  those  of  other  countries,  high- 
lighting the  relative  merits  of  each.  Three  longwall  panel 
development  systems  were  compared:  a  multiple-entry  sys- 
tem, a  European-type  single-entry  system,  and  a  modified 
system  of  NAMCO's  own  design  that  was  a  compromise 
between  European  practices  and  U.S.  requirements.  The 
modified  system  failed  to  satisfy  all  U.S.  regulations,  but  it 
was  similar  to  the  modified  single  entries  driven  at 
Sunnyside.    This  study  concluded  that  in  the  absence  of 


adverse  geological  conditions,  the  multiple-entry  systems 
required  by  U.S.  laws  and  regulations  are  inherently  safer 
than  single-entry  systems.  The  study  also  noted  that  where 
the  physical  conditions  become  hazardous  for  the  multiple- 
entry  method  of  working,  those  U.S.  laws  and  regulations 
that  constrain  or  prohibit  European-type  single-entry 
workings  negate  their  purpose  and  are  of  doubtful  benefit. 
In  such  cases,  European  regulations,  methods,  and  experi- 
ence, which  are  drawn  directly  from  more  hazardous  con- 
ditions, offer  a  method  of  single-entry  operation  that 
provides  improved  control  over  the  strata  and  greater 
overall  safety  (6). 

NAMCO's  economic  comparison  also  favored  the 
multiple-entry  system  when  used  in  conventionally  devel- 
oped mines.  A  case  was  made,  however,  for  the  economic 
benefits  of  single-entry  development  for  an  entire  mine 
property.  The  central  argument  was  that  increased  re- 
source recovery  could  offset  the  higher  capital  cost  of 
single  entries. 

KETRON  STUDY 

The  purpose  of  the  Ketron  study  was  to  analyze  the 
single-entry  demonstrations  conducted  in  the  1970's  and  to 
design  an  improved,  legally  acceptable  single-entry  system 
for  developing  retreat  longwall  panels.  The  resulting  con- 
cept was  another  modified  system  based  on  an  entry  split 
into  three  separate  compartments:  an  intake  airway,  a 
return  airway,  and  a  belt  compartment  in  the  center  of  the 
entry.  The  proposed  system  would  be  similar  to  a  three- 
entry  room-and-pillar  system  and  thus  would  comply  with 
current  regulations,  provided  favorable  interpretations  con- 
cerning the  divider  walls  were  applied.  This  system  would 
meet  those  regulations  that  presently  constrain  or  prohibit 
driving  two-compartment,  split  single  entries,  as  well  as 
true  single  entries.  The  regulations  dealing  with  bleeders 
and  fresh  air  could  also  be  met  with  this  configuration. 

The  Ketron  design  recommended  a  class  of  European 
continuous  mining  systems  generally  referred  to  as  "partial 
cutting  machines"  and  specified  the  Eickhoff  short-face 
ranging  shearer  as  the  best  alternative.  This  system  is  an 
advancing  "mini-longwalT  system  with  a  standard  longwall 
shearer  riding  an  armored  face  conveyor.  A  stage  loader 
feeds  a  belt  conveyor,  providing  continuous  haulage.  This 
system  can  drive  a  single  entry  between  20  to  40  ft  wide. 
Roof  bolters  are  mounted  on  the  mining  machine  for 
immediate  support.  The  Ketron  design  called  for  a  30-ft- 
wide  entry.  Additional  support  for  this  span  would  come 


16 


from  two  divider  walls  constructed  to  form  a  three- 
compartment  system.  The  key  to  supporting  such  a  wide 
span  would  be  to  prevent  as  much  roof  convergence  as 
possible  before  installation  of  the  support  walls.  The 
Eickhoff  system  would  allow  the  walls  to  be  constructed  to 
within  12  ft  of  the  cutting  face. 

The  primary  advantages  of  the  Ketron  entry  design 
would  be  in  meeting  the  regulatory  requirements  and  in 
providing  a  truly  continuous  mining  system.  As  long  as  the 
divider  walls  were  interpreted  as  adequate  substitutes  for 
chain  pillars  and  stoppings,  regulations  would  be  the  same 
as  for  three-entry  systems.  The  delays  and  loss  of  produc- 
tivity associated  with  the  Sunnyside  single  entry  would  be 
superseded  by  the  total  system  approach  provided  by  the 
Eickhoff  continuous  miner.  The  apparent  disadvantages 
are  that  two  divider  walls  must  be  constructed  and  sealed 
and  that  these  walls  must  be  strong  enough  to  support  a 
30-ft  span.  Several  wall  designs  were  evaluated  in  the 
study.  The  most  desirable  design  consisted  of  a  yielding 
steel  post  for  support,  wire  mesh  for  lagging,  and  fiber- 
reinforced  resin  as  a  sealant.  Based  on  the  TBM  and 
Sunnyside  projects,  the  construction  and  maintenance  of 
these  walls  would  be  an  impediment  to  rapid,  efficient 
driving  of  this  type  of  entry  system.  The  concept  delivered 
by  the  Ketron  study  is,  however,  a  significant  improvement 
over  past  U.S.  single-entry  systems.  Questions  remain  to 
be  answered,  particularly  with  regard  to  the  support  of  a 
30-ft  roof  span,  the  construction  of  the  divider  walls,  and 
MSHA's  interpretation  of  regulations  concerning  the  split 
single  entries.  Many  of  these  questions  could  be  answered 
only  by  carrying  out  a  field  demonstration  similar  to  the 
Sunnyside  and  TBM  projects. 

RESEARCH  RELATED  TO  SINGLE  ENTRIES 

During  the  1970's,  there  were  many  additional  studies 
undertaken  in  support  of  single-entry  research  or  to  inves- 
tigate related  subjects.  Many  of  these  studies  dealt  with 
new  types  of  instruments  such  as  the  Creare  vibrating- 
wire  stress  gauge  (20)  or  with  new  equipment  such  as  the 
Dosco  in-seam  miner  (21-22).  Other  studies,  funded 
under  contract  by  the  Bureau,  produced  computerized 
two-dimensional  (23)  or  three-dimensional,  finite-element 


analyses  of  the  Sunnyside  single  entry,  based  upon  the  data 
obtained  during  the  trial.  One  finite-element  analysis 
compared  the  theoretical  stability  of  several  different  entry 
configurations,  including  the  single  entry  (24). 

Another  Bureau  study  using  the  single-entry  concept  at 
Sunnyside  involved  installing  a  flexible  steel  liner  in  an 
advancing  tailgate  and  monitoring  it  from  November  1976 
to  March  1977.  The  liner  provided  a  temporary  second 
escapeway  and  return  air  conduit  for  the  15th  R  longwall 
panel.  It  was  made  up  of  4-ft-diam,  4-ga  steel  sections 
bolted  together  and  installed  immediately  behind  the 
second  longwall  support,  which  was  a  combination  of 
chocks  and  shield  supports.  An  inert  cushion  was  used  as 
a  base  for  the  liner,  which  was  usually  buried  2  ft  in  the 
bottom.  The  first  50  ft  were  protected  by  a  double  row  of 
wood  cribs,  but  thereafter  the  liner's  only  protection  came 
from  wood  posts  and  broken  rock  hand  shoveled  over  it. 
Six  stations  were  monitored  in  the  992-ft  liner  to  measure 
deformation.  As  a  result  of  information  gained  during  this 
study,  the  Bureau  funded  a  contract  to  design  and  demon- 
strate a  more  permanent  liner  (25). 

Another  aspect  investigated  was  divider-support  walls. 
Initially,  different  materials  for  construction  of  divider 
walls  were  evaluated  (26),  and  later  a  rapid  center  wall 
placement  system  was  designed  using  foam  concrete  as  the 
construction  material  (27).  There  were  also  investigations 
into  the  economic  and  safety  aspects  of  divider  wall 
systems  (28).  Divider  wall  research  led  to  a  Bureau  proj- 
ect to  design  and  test  concrete  cribs.  These  concrete  crib 
blocks  not  only  proved  to  be  much  better  supports  than 
their  wooden  counterparts,  but  they  also  were  lighter, 
cheaper,  and  easier  to  install  (29).  Field  tests  of  two  crib 
block  configurations  were  held  in  conjunction  with  the 
Sunnyside  project,  and  two  more  designs  were  tested  at 
five  other  U.S.  mines  (30).  As  a  result  of  that  research, 
concrete  crib  blocks  are  being  manufactured  commercially 
and  are  being  used  more  often  underground. 

Many  other  projects  not  directly  related  to  single-entry 
research  were  associated  with  the  Sunnyside  and  TBM 
demonstrations.  These  demonstrations  merely  provided 
convenient  in-mine  laboratories  for  investigating  new 
hardware  and  mining  concepts. 


CONCLUSIONS 


The  four  projects  described  in  this  report— the  Sunnyside 
project,  the  TBM  project,  the  NAMCO  study,  and  the 
Ketron  single-entry  design-have  had  a  great  impact  on 
single-entry  research  in  this  country.  The  Sunnyside  and 
TBM  demonstrations  were  different  in  purpose  and  design; 
however,  they  established  the  compartmentalized  entry  as 
the  U.S.  answer  to  the  single  entry.  Although  the 
NAMCO  study  raises  some  serious  questions  about  the 
effectiveness  and  relative  safety  of  this  type  of  system, 
both  the  NAMCO  study  and  Ketron  design  used  this  basic 
concept  in  their  proposals  for  future  single  entries.   The 


divided  single-entry  concept  was  not  selected  for  its 
simplicity  or  its  efficiency,  nor  was  it  selected  because  of 
improved  ground  control  or  safety.  It  was  selected  be- 
cause it  is  more  easily  adapted  to  U.S.  mining  regulations. 
Divided  single  entries  have  been  driven  and  used  with- 
out mishap,  but  their  productivity  and  economics  have  not 
been  attractive.  Difficulties  have  arisen  in  adapting  single 
entries  to  U.S.  mining  laws.  Mining  regulations,  both  State 
and  Federal  have  evolved  over  the  years  to  govern  room- 
and-pillar  mining  and  limit  the  introduction  of  new  and 
different  mining  methods.    Single  entries,  for  example, 


17 


were  possible  only  after  obtaining  variances  from  statutes 
regarding  permissibility  and  by  liberal  interpretation  of 
regulations  dealing  with  ventilation  seals  and  fire  barriers. 
In  the  United  States,  ventilation  and  escapeway 
regulations  have  forced  the  use  of  a  divider  wall.  For  a 
divider  wall  to  be  in  compliance  with  mining  law,  however, 
it  must  not  allow  the  propagation  of  either  a  fire  or  an 
explosion  from  one  side  to  the  other.  The  Sunnyside  and 
TBM  projects  set  the  precedent  for  entry  development 
using  a  divided  single  entry.  For  longwall  panel  devel- 
opment, where  the  most  critical  need  exists,  the  Sunnyside 
project  demonstrated  that,  although  the  entries  were  suc- 
cessfully driven  and  used,  the  more  conventional  two-entry 
system  was  preferable.  Construction  and  maintenance  of 
the  divider  wall  and  lost  productivity  caused  by  cycling 
equipment  at  the  face  made  these  entries  too  costly. 

The  Ketron  design  is  indicative  of  the  next  generation 
of  divided  single  entries,  and  while  a  systems  approach  to 
the  design  has  eliminated  delays  caused  by  rotating  work- 
ers and  equipment  at  the  face,  the  three-compartment  con- 
cept requires  doubling  the  construction  time  and  widening 
the  entry  span.  This  three-compartment  design  will  be 
necessary  to  comply  with  current  U.S.  regulations  in  all 
coal  mines  except  those  where  grandfather  clauses  permit 
the  operation  of  conveyors  in  return  airways.  In  addition 
to  these  unsolved  problems,  a  major  safety  question  is  at 
issue  with  the  divided  single  entry:  Are  divider  walls 
actually  barriers  to  fire  and  explosion  as  is  mandated  by 
30  CFR  75.329-2  (1989)? 

Single-entry  development  in  the  United  States  is  far 
from  perfected.  Many  problems  remain  unsolved,  such  as 
how  to  control  excessive  amounts  of  methane  in  gassy 
areas.    Experiences  to  date  have  demonstrated  that  the 


problems  are  not  insurmountable,  however,  and  that  they 
can  be  solved  by  ingenuity  and  careful  engineering.  The 
pertinent  questions  for  now  concern  the  future  of  the 
single  entry  in  this  country.  Is  there  a  need  for  this  meth- 
od right  now?  Will  there  be  a  need  for  it  in  the  future? 
The  general  consensus  of  nearly  all  the  single-entry  inves- 
tigators is  that  although  the  economics  and  efficiency  of 
the  modified  U.S.  single  entry  are  not  attractive,  they  do 
provide  additional  stability  in  deep  mines.  Kaiser  Steel 
Corporation  management  said  in  assessing  the  Sunnyside 
experiments  (77):  "It  has  been  proved  that  a  single  entry 
can  be  driven  in  less  time  with  no  diminution  of  safety  to 
the  face  crew.  Future  mining,  under  deeper  cover  and  less 
competent  roof,  could  easily  swing  the  tide  of  opinion 
toward  the  single-entry  concept." 

If  single-entry  technology  is  needed,  what  direction 
should  it  take?  One  direction  leads  to  further  devel- 
opment of  the  divided  single  entry  in  order  to  comply  with 
Federal  and  State  regulations  regarding  ventilation  and 
escapeways.  The  other  direction  leads  to  the  adoption  of 
European  technology  and  its  attendant  regulations. 

Further  development  and  refinement  will  surely  be 
necessary  to  make  divided  single  entries  meet  current  min- 
ing regulations  and  be  economically  attractive.  European 
single-entry  systems  will  not  comply  with  U.S.  regula- 
tions; however,  years  of  experience  with  these  systems 
have  proven  them  to  be  safe  and  efficient  longwall  devel- 
opment techniques  under  European  conditions.  In  the 
end,  the  future  of  single  entries  in  this  country  will  be 
decided  by  industry  needs  and  further  reconciliation  of 
regulatory  concerns  and  the  technical  and  economic  merits 
of  single-entry  systems. 


REFERENCES 


1.  Poad,  M.  E.,  E.  L.  Phillips,  and  E.  T.  Bowers.  Single-Entry 
Development  for  Longwall  Mining.  Paper  in  First  Symposium  on 
Underground  Mining  (Louisville,  KY,  Oct.  21-23,  1975).  Nat.  Coal 
Assoc.,  Washington,  DC,  v.  1,  1975,  pp.  135-143. 

2.  Jackson,  D.  Advancing  Longwall  Mining:  A  First  for  Mid- 
Continent  Coal  and  a  First  for  the  U.S.  Sec.  in  Coal  Age  Operating 
Handbook  of  Underground  Mining.  Coal  Age  Min.  Inf.  Services, 
McGraw-Hill,  New  York,  v.  1,  1977,  pp.  62-67. 

3.  Bullers,  W.  E  Boring  a  Coal  Mine  Slope.  Min.  Congr.  J.,  v.  63, 
No.  5,  1977,  pp.  4(M3. 

4.  Brezovec,  D.  Roadheader  Drives  Two  Slopes.  Coal  Age,  v.  88, 
No.  8,  1983,  pp.  50-52. 

5.  Adam,  F.  J.  Special  Monitoring  Requirements  for  Multi-Lift 
Longwall  Mining  Field  Trial  (DOE  contract  DE-AC01-79ET11268,  Task 
Order  123).   Dep.  Energy,  July  1982,  pp.  6-9. 

6.  North  American  Mining  Consultants,  Inc.  Single-Entry  Longwall 
Study,  v.  1:  Final  Report  (DOE  contract  DE-AC01-77-ET-12558). 
Dep.  Energy,  1982,  242  pp.;  NTIS  DE  82019861. 

7.  Tucker,  R  H.  Mining  Development  in  the  National  Coal  Board. 
Min.  Eng.  (London),  v.  142,  No.  260,  1983,  pp.  589-598. 

8.  Bordia,  S.  K.  Design  of  Longwall  Mining  Systems.  Colliery 
Guardian,  v.  231,  No.  10,  1983,  pp.  521-523. 

9.  Australian  Coal  Miner.  Joint  Coal  Board  Releases  Its  Annual 
Report  Covering  1980/81.   V.  4,  No.  4,  1982,  pp.  34,  42,  46-48. 

10.  Wallman,  D.,  and  J.  McKendry.    Single-Entry  Development  at 
Ellalong  Colliery.   Mine  and  Quarry  Mechanisation,  1981,  pp.  67-74. 


11.  Round,  C.  The  Design  of  the  Experience  With  Single-Entry 
Faces  at  South  Kirby  Colliery.  Min.  Eng.  (London),  v.  142,  No.  253, 
1982,  pp.  193-199. 

12.  Poad,  M.  E.,  G.  G.  Waddell,  and  E.  L.  Phillips.  Single-Entry 
Development  for  Longwall  Mining.  Research  Approach  and  Results  at 
Sunnyside  No.  2  Mine,  Carbon  County,  Utah.  BuMines  RI  8252,  1977, 
29  pp. 

13.  Poad,  M.  E,  G.  G.  Waddell,  and  M.  D.  Ross.  Research  Program 
for  Single-Entry  Longwall  Development  of  Coal  Mines.  Paper  in 
Proceedings  1974  Rapid  Excavation  and  Tunneling  Conference  (San 
Francisco,  CA,  June  24-27,  1974).  AIME,  New  York,  v.  2,  1974, 
pp.  1471-1472. 

14.  Scheibner,  B.  J.  Geology  of  the  Single-Entry  Project  at  Sunnyside 
Coal  Mines  1  and  2,  Sunnyside,  Utah.  BuMines  RI  8402,  1979, 106  pp. 

15.  Bowers,  E.  T,  and  L.  N.  Henton.  A  Summary  of  Data  From  the 
Sunnyside  Single  Entry  Study-1971-80.  BuMines  OFR  25-84,  1983, 
541  pp. 

16.  Ross,  M.  D.  Longwall  Mining  Using  the  Single-Entry  System  and 
Advancing  Tailgate.   Min.  Congr.  J.,  v.  60,  No.  8,  1974,  pp.  38-41. 

17.  Huntsman,  L.  W.,  and  D.  C.  Pearce.  Entry  Development  for 
Longwall  Mining.   Min.  Congr.  J.,  v.  67,  No.  7,  1981,  pp.  29-32,  51. 

18.  Tisdale,  J.  E.,  and  D.  R  Skidmore.  Demonstration  of  Tunnel- 
Boring  Machine  for  Coal-Mine  Development:  Final  Technical  Report 
(DOE  contract  ET-74-C-01-9068,  East.  Associated  Coal  Corp.).  Dep. 
Energy,  1979,  149  pp.;  NTIS  DE  82013516. 


18 


19.  Belton,  A.  Ventilation  Analysis.  Final  Report  to  Eastern 
Associated  Coal  Corp.  From  John  T.  Boyd  Co.,  1978;  available  upon 
request  from  M.  O.  Serbousek,  BuMines,  Spokane,  WA. 

20.  Van  Dillen,  D.  E.  The  Three-Dimensional  Structural  Analysis  of 
Double-Entry  and  Single-Entry  Coal  Mines.  Final  Report.  Volume  III. 
Three-Dimensional  Finite  Element  Analyses  of  Single-  and  Double- 
Entry  Portions  of  Sunnyside  Mine  No.  1  (contract  H0262020,  Agbabian 
Associates).  BuMines  OFR  16  (3)-80,  1978,  278  pp.;  NTIS  PB  80- 
150360. 

21.  Tokarg,  R  D.,  K.  Hay,  C.  B.  Conrad,  J.  P.  Haskins,  and  J.  J. 
Jacobsen.  In-Mine  Test  and  Economic  Evaluation  of  the  Dosco  In- 
Seam  Miner  (DOE  contract  ET-76-C-06-1830).  Dep.  Energy,  1980, 
101  pp. 

22.  Manley,  C.  D.  Demonstration  and  Evaluation  of  Dosco  In-Seam 
Heading  Machine:  Final  Report  (DOE  contract  ET-76-C-01-9044, 
Allied  Corp.).    Dep.  Energy,  1979,  28  pp.;  NTIS  DE  82004520. 

23.  Pariseau,  W.  G.  Interpretation  of  Rock  Mechanics  Data  (Vol.  I) 
(A  Two-Dimensional  Finite  Element  Approach  to  the  Evaluation  of 
Underground  Coal  Mine  Stability)  (contract  H0220077,  Univ.  UT). 
BuMines  OFR  47  (l)-80,  1978,  172  pp. 

24.  Van  Dillen,  D.  E.,  and  R  W.  Fellner.  Comparisons  of  Structural 
Stability  for  Entry  Configurations  and  Ground  Support  for  Longwall 


Panel  Development  (contract  J0285014,  Agbabian  Associates).  BuMines 
OFR  50-82,  1981,  225  pp.;  NTIS  PB  82-201864. 

25.  Ko,  K.  C.  Flexible  Liner  for  Use  in  Advancing  Tailgate  (contract 
H0292014,  Kenneth  C.  Ko  &  Associates).  BuMines  OFR  6-82,  1980, 
191  pp.;  NTIS  PB  82-149352. 

26.  Poad,  M.  E.,  M.  O.  Serbousek,  and  J.  Goris.  Engineering  Proper- 
ties of  Fiber-Reinforced  and  Polymer-Impregnated  Shotcrete.  BuMines 
RI  8001,  1975,  25  pp. 

27.  Marshall,  M.  D.  The  Evaluation  of  Foam  Concrete  for  a  Rapid 
Centerwall  Placement  System:  Final  Technical  Report  (DOE  contract 
ET-75-C-01-9101,  MSA  Res.  Corp.).  Dep.  Energy,  1978,  68  pp.;  NTIS 
HCP/T9101-01. 

28.  Walton,  D.  R,  S.  B.  Rondum,  P.  W.  Kauffman,  and  S.  A. 
Hawkins.  Health  and  Safety  Analysis  on  Support  Walls,  Volume  1 
(contract  J0295036,  Manage.  Eng.  Inc.).  BuMines  OFR  121(l)-82, 
1980,  207  pp.;  NTIS  PB  82-251950. 

29.  Anderson,  G.  L.,  and  T.  W.  Smelser.  Development,  Testing,  and 
Analysis  of  Steel-Fiber-Reinforced  Concrete  Mine  Support  Members. 
BuMines  RI  8412,  1980,  38  pp. 

30.  Smelser,  T.  W.,  and  L.  N.  Henton.  Concrete  Crib  Design  and 
Field  Testing.   BuMines  RI  8804,  1983,  44  pp. 


INT.BU.OF  MINES,PGH.,PA  29149 


g>  ©S  co 

z 

«-!.«• 

> 

5 

■n 
O 

33 

O 

m 
■n 

O 

>  I 

Departm 
au  of  Mil 
E  Street 
hington, 

TJ 

r 

a-    =  o 

3 

1 

8 

CO 

nt  of 

N.W. 
.C. 

m 
c 
</> 
m 

Z 

m 

°  r»        3" 

CO 

*»  co      _ 

I 

CO 

nterior 

#9800 
1 

m 
D 

c 
> 

I— 

o 

-o 

o 

-\ 
C 

z 


m 


O 

-< 
m 

30 


413=  90 


mmcmw^mmZ 


•  * 8 "    ^?'  * 


0T 


si-  °"      /.-^i>-      cP*.^;%     /.-^fe-S. 


•  ^  "  .«  V   A:  V  :g|:  >f  :#fe  >l 


>*  :WAo  V.**   /; 


°o 


a   *****    • 
•  •  *     \ 


•b^ 


uu*^ 


\  \^  :*Mtii  \.J"  :£b[\  %^#  .-isSfifc  V^ 


v^ 


*      5?    %     * 


•"••-%        .a>v  l.^«,  *k 


A^"^!#. 


nV       .  o  n  •  _      *£. 


hit 

A:  J^\.  %Jm&:  ^\  x-wjWS  *****  :< 


**  «^°^  -.^  <=-$u?- 


^V 


^     \*^y     v*^f-\^    %*^-*\o°     v<3^\^     ^^^r:^/     %*t 


,4  q.         :  o^ 


^d* 


A>  .  *■  <  «  *       ^ 


A  yj^,  \ 


*bV 


Av  ..f..„    ^  ^    ^••♦^o/      *^>V^lA**^"       ,.0^  « • " a  *    ^b 


o.   ♦/^T»'  A 


HECKMAN        IXI 

BINDERY  INC.        |8| 

NOV  90 

N.  MANCHESTER, 


•      .ay  c»       *■ 


V     . 


^^     \ 


■^r,      &        *?2MMM*        ^     AT        *^ 


•    ^^.    : 


.c^^rv 


