area  handbook  series 

Somalia 

a  country  study 


Somalia 

a  country  study 


Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Helen  Chapin  Metz 
Research  Completed 
May  1992 


On  the  cover:  Ancient  Arab  tower  near  the  old  port, 
Mogadishu 


Fourth  Edition,  First  Printing,  1993. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Somalia:  A  Country  Study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of  Con- 
gress ;  edited  by  Helen  Chapin  Metz.  —  4th  ed. 

p.    cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294) 
(DA  Pam  ;  550-86) 

"Supersedes  the  1982  edition  of  Somalia:  a  country  study, 
edited  by  Harold  D.  Nelson" — T.p.  verso. 
"Research  completed  May  1992." 

Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp.  237-259)  and  index. 
ISBN  0-8444-0775-5 

1.  Somalia.  I.  Metz,  Helen  Chapin,  1928-    .  II.  Library  of 
Congress.  Federal  Research  Division.  III.  Series.  IV.  Series  :  DA 
Pam  ;  550-86. 

DT401.5.S68  1993  93-16246 
[Z663.275.S66] 

967.73— dc20  CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-86 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared  by 
the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress  under 
the  Country  Studies/ Area  Handbook  Program  sponsored  by  the 
Department  of  Army.  The  last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other 
published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


iii 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  of  the  fol- 
lowing individuals  who  wrote  the  1982  edition  of  Somalia:  A  Coun- 
try Study:  Robert  Rinehart,  Irving  Kaplan,  Donald  P.  Whitaker, 
Jean  R.  Tartter,  and  Frederick  Ehrenreich.  Their  work  provided 
the  basis  of  the  present  volume,  as  well  as  substantial  portions  of 
the  text. 

The  authors  are  grateful  to  individuals  in  various  government 
agencies  and  private  institutions  who  gave  their  time,  research 
materials,  and  expertise  to  the  production  of  this  book.  These  in- 
dividuals include  Ralph  K.  Benesch,  who  oversees  the  Country 
Studies — Area  Handbook  program  for  the  Department  of  the 
Army.  Special  thanks  are  owed  to  Thomas  Ofcansky  who  assisted 
in  providing  data  with  which  to  update  the  various  chapters.  Graph- 
ics support  was  supplied  by  the  firm  of  Greenhorne  and  O'Mara; 
Harriet  R.  Blood,  who  prepared  the  topography  and  drainage  map; 
Carlyn  Dawn  Anderson,  who  designed  the  illustrations  on  the  ti- 
tle pages  of  the  chapters;  and  Wayne  Home,  who  designed  the 
cover. 

Special  appreciation  is  due  the  Department  of  Defense  for  the 
use  of  January  1993  photographs  from  Operation  Restore  Hope. 
These  pictures,  taken  by  members  of  the  United  States  Armed 
Forces  with  digitized  cameras,  were  transmitted  by  satellite  from 
Somalia  directly  to  computers  in  the  Pentagon;  they  represent  a 
technological  advance  for  on-the-scene  photographic  coverage. 

The  authors  also  wish  to  thank  members  of  the  Federal  Research 
Division  who  contributed  directly  to  the  preparation  of  the 
manuscript.  These  people  include  Sandra  W.  Meditz,  who  reviewed 
all  drafts  and  graphic  material  and  served  as  liaison  with  the  spon- 
soring agency;  Tim  L.  Merrill,  who  assisted  in  preparing  maps; 
LaVerle  Berry,  who  provided  background  area  information;  David 
P.  Cabitto,  who  provided  invaluable  graphic  assistance  and  super- 
vised graphics  production;  and  Marilyn  L.  Majeska,  who  managed 
editing  and  production.  Also  involved  in  preparing  the  text  were 
editorial  assistants  Barbara  Edgerton  and  Izella  Watson. 

Individual  chapters  were  edited  by  Vincent  Ercolano.  Cissie  Coy 
and  Catherine  Schwartzstein  performed  the  final  prepublication 
review,  and  Joan  C.  Cook  compiled  the  index.  Linda  Peterson  of 
the  Library  of  Congress  Composing  Unit  prepared  the  camera- 
ready  copy,  under  the  supervision  of  Peggy  Pixley. 


v 


Contents 


Page 


Foreword    Hi 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface    xi 

Country  Profile     xiii 

Introduction      xxi 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting    l 

Said  S.  Samatar 

THE  SOMALIS:  THEIR  ORIGINS,  MIGRATIONS, 

AND  SETTLEMENT    3 

Coastal  Towns   5 

Emergence  of  Adal    6 

Mogadishu  and  Its  Banaadir  Hinterlands    8 

The  Somali  Peninsula  on  the  Eve  of  Imperial 

Partition   9 

The  Majeerteen  Sultanates    10 

IMPERIAL  PARTITION   10 

Mahammad    Abdille    Hasan's    Dervish  Resistance 

to  Colonial  Occupation    13 

Consolidation  of  Colonial  Rule    14 

Somalia  During  World  War  II    14 

British  Military  Administration    16 

Trusteeship  and  Protectorate:  The  Road  to 

Independence    20 

FROM  INDEPENDENCE  TO  REVOLUTION    26 

Problems  of  National  Integration    26 

Pan-Somalism    28 

Foreign  Relations,  1960-69    30 

The  Husseen  Government   31 

The  Igaal  Government    33 

Coup  d'Etat    36 

THE  REVOLUTIONARY  REGIME    37 

Supreme  Revolutionary  Council    37 

Challenges  to  the  Regime    40 

Siad  Barre  and  Scientific  Socialism    40 

The  Language  and  Literacy  Issue    43 


vii 


Creation  of  the  Somali  Revolutionary  Socialist  Party  .  .  44 

SOMALIA'S  DIFFICULT  DECADE,  1980-90    45 

Entrenching  Siad  Barre's  Personal  Rule    45 

Siad  Barre's  Repressive  Measures   48 

Persecution  of  the  Majeerteen    50 

Oppression  of  the  Isaaq   50 

Harrying  of  the  Hawiye    51 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment  ....  55 

Said  S.  Samatar 

PHYSICAL  SETTING    59 

Climate    59 

Terrain,  Vegetation,  and  Drainage    60 

POPULATION  AND  SETTLEMENT  PATTERNS   66 

THE  SEGMENTARY  SOCIAL  ORDER    71 

Samaal   74 

Digil  and  Rahanwayn    77 

Riverine  and  Coastal  People  of  Non-Somali  Origin    .  .  79 

Specialized  Occupational  Groups   82 

Social  Change    82 

LINEAGE  SEGMENTATION  AND  THE  SOMALI 

CIVIL  WAR    92 

RELIGIOUS  LIFE    94 

The  Tenets  of  Islam    96 

Religious  Roles  in  Somali  Islam    97 

Religious  Orders  and  the  Cult  of 

the  Saints   97 

Folk  Islam  and  Indigenous  Ritual    100 

Islam  in  the  Colonial  Era  and  After    102 

Rising  Islamism   104 

LANGUAGE  AND  EDUCATION   104 

Language   104 

Education    106 

HEALTH    110 

REFUGEES    112 

BREAKDOWN  OF  THE  INFRASTRUCTURE    117 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy    119 

David  D.  Laitin 

PASTORALISM  AND  COMMERCE  IN  HISTORICAL 

PERSPECTIVE   121 

THE  COLONIAL  ECONOMY    122 

ECONOMIC  DEVELOPMENT,  1960-69    125 


vm 


SCIENTIFIC  SOCIALISM,  1970-75    126 

THE  SOCIALIST  REVOLUTION  AFTER  1975    130 

FROM  SCIENTIFIC  SOCIALISM  TO  "IMF-ism," 

1981-90    132 

NATURAL  RESOURCES  AND  ECONOMIC 

INFRASTRUCTURE    136 

Land    136 

Energy   137 

Transportation   138 

Communications    140 

THE  "REAL"  SOMALI  ECONOMY  IN  THE  1980s    141 

Export  of  Labor    141 

Export  of  Livestock    142 

Rural  Subsistence  Sector    142 

Urban  Subsistence  and  Government 

Employment   144 

Undeveloped  Sectors    146 

Foreign  Trade    148 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics    151 

Eric  Hooglund 

GOVERNMENT  STRUCTURE    155 

Constitution   157 

Legislature   158 

Local  Government   159 

Legal  System   160 

Courts   161 

POLITICAL  DYNAMICS    163 

Opposition  Movements    164 

Politics  of  Reconciliation    167 

Politics  of  Succession    168 

Political  of  Disintegration    170 

MASS  MEDIA    170 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS    172 

Relations  with  Neighboring  African  States    172 

Relations  with  Arab  Countries    174 

Relations  with  the  United  States    176 

Other  Foreign  Relations    177 

Chapter  5.  National  Security    179 

Thomas  Ofcansky 

INTERNATIONAL  SECURITY  CONCERNS   181 

Irredentism  and  the  Changing  Balance 

of  Power    182 


ix 


The  Ogaden  War:  Performance  and  Implications  of 


Defeat    184 

Postwar  Status  of  the  Armed  Forces    186 

INTERNAL  SECURITY  CONCERNS    187 

Government  Security  Policy    187 

Sources  of  Opposition    189 

HISTORY  AND  DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE  ARMED 

FORCES    196 

The  Warrior  Tradition  and  Development 

of  the  Modern  Army    196 

The  Armed  Forces  in  National  Life    202 

Mission,  Organization,  and  Strength    204 

Manpower,  Training,  and  Conditions 

of  Service   206 

FOREIGN  MILITARY  ASSISTANCE    208 

STATE  SECURITY  SERVICES    214 

Somali  Police  Force   214 

People's  Militia    216 

National  Security  Service    217 

CRIMINAL  JUSTICE    217 

Penal  System   218 

Prison  System    219 

HUMAN  RIGHTS    220 

Appendix.  Tables    227 

Bibliography    237 

Glossary    261 

Index   265 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Somalia,  1992    xx 

2  Colonial  Boundaries,  1891-1960    12 

3  Topography  and  Drainage    62 

4  Major  Clan-Families  and  Clans    72 

5  Refugee  Camps  in  Somalia,  1990    114 

6  Transportation  System,  1992    140 


x 


Preface 


Like  its  predecessor,  this  study  is  an  attempt  to  treat  in  a  con- 
cise and  objective  manner  the  dominant  historical,  social,  politi- 
cal, economic,  and  military  aspects  of  contemporary  Somali  society. 
Sources  of  information  included  scholarly  journals  and  monographs, 
official  reports  of  government  and  international  organizations, 
newspapers,  and  numerous  periodicals.  Chapter  bibliographies  ap- 
pear at  the  end  of  the  book;  brief  comments  on  some  of  the  more 
valuable  sources  suggested  as  possible  further  reading  appear  at 
the  end  of  each  chapter.  Measurements  are  given  in  the  metric  sys- 
tem; a  conversion  table  is  provided  to  assist  those  readers  who  are 
unfamiliar  with  metric  measurements  (see  table  1,  Appendix).  A 
glossary  is  also  included. 

Place-names  generally  have  been  spelled  in  accordance  with  those 
established  by  the  United  States  Board  on  Geographic  Names  and 
the  Permanent  Committee  on  Geographic  Names  for  British  Offi- 
cial Use,  known  as  the  BGN/PCGN  system.  The  spelling  of  other 
proper  names  conforms  to  the  current  usage  in  the  country  or  to 
the  most  authoritative  available  sources. 

Because  Somalia  has  been  in  a  state  of  virtual  anarchy  since  the 
fall  of  the  regime  of  Mahammad  Siad  Barre  in  January  1991  (and, 
actually,  to  a  considerable  degree  since  the  outbreak  of  civil  war 
in  the  latter  1980s),  the  lack  of  functioning  government  institu- 
tions has  meant  that  statistics  tend  to  be  unreliable  or  nonexistent. 
Therefore,  statistics  cited  in  the  text  or  tables  in  the  appendix  should 
be  viewed  with  caution. 

The  arrival  in  Somalia  in  December  1992  of  United  States  mili- 
tary forces,  together  with  forces  from  other  United  Nations  mem- 
ber states,  has  resulted  in  detailed  Western  press  coverage  of 
Somalia.  However,  much  background  data  continued  to  be  lack- 
ing; this  volume  attempts  to  fill  in  that  gap. 

The  body  of  the  text  reflects  information  available  as  of  mid- 1992. 
Certain  other  portions  of  the  text,  however,  have  been  updated. 
The  Introduction  discusses  significant  events  that  have  occurred 
since  the  completion  of  research,  the  Country  Profile  includes  up- 
dated information  as  available,  and  the  Bibliography  includes  re- 
cently published  sources  thought  to  be  particularly  helpful  to  the 
reader. 


XI 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Somali  Democratic  Republic. 
Short  Form:  Somalia 

Term  for  Citizens:  Somali  (pi.,  Somalis). 
Capital:  Mogadishu. 

NOTE-The  Country  Profile  contains  updated  information  as  available. 

xiii 


Geography 

Size:  Land  area  637,540  square  kilometers;  coastline  3,025  kilometers; 
sovereignty  claimed  over  territorial  waters  up  to  200  nautical  miles. 

Topography:  Flat  plateau  surfaces  and  plains  predominate;  prin- 
cipal exception  rugged  east-west  ranges  in  far  north  that  include 
Shimbir  Berris,  highest  point  at  2,407  meters. 

Climate  and  Hydrology:  Continuously  hot  except  at  higher  ele- 
vations in  north;  two  wet  seasons  bring  erratic  rainfall,  largely  April 
to  June  and  October  and  November,  averaging  under  500  milli- 
meters in  much  of  the  country;  droughts  frequent;  only  Jubba  River 
in  somewhat  wetter  southwest  has  permanent  water  flow.  Shabeelle 
River,  also  in  southwest,  flows  about  seven  months  of  year. 

Society 

Population:  Estimates  vary;  United  Nations  1991  estimate  shows 
population  of  7.7  million  not  including  Ethiopian  refugees,  but  other 
estimates  place  at  8.4  million  in  mid- 1990.  Until  early  1990s, 
predominantly  nomadic  pastoralists  and  seminomadic  herders  made 
up  about  three-fifths  of  total;  cultivators,  about  one-fifth;  town 
dwellers  (vast  majority  in  Mogadishu),  about  one-fifth.  Pattern  of 
residency  dramatically  altered  by  civil  war  in  late  1980s  onward, 
raising  urban  population  of  Mogadishu  to  2  million. 

Languages:  Somali  (script  officially  introduced  January  1973) 
predominates.  Several  dialects;  Common  Somali  most  widely  used; 
Coastal  Somali  spoken  on  the  Banaadir  coast;  Central  Somali 
spoken  in  the  interriverine  area.  English  and  Italian  used  by  rela- 
tively small  proportion  (less  than  10  percent)  of  urban  population. 
Arabic  used  in  religious  contexts. 

Ethnic  Groups:  Most  nationals  ethnic  Somalis;  traditionally  divid- 
ed into  Samaal  descent  groups,  consisting  of  four  pastoral  nomad- 
ic clan-families  (Dir,  Daarood,  Isaaq,  and  Hawiye)  and  two 
agricultural  clan-families  (Digil  and  Rahanwayn  living  mainly  in 
south  on  or  between  Jubba  and  Shabeelle  rivers.)  In  1991  central- 
ized state  disintegrated  into  its  constituent  lineages  and  clans. 

Religion:  Former  Somali  state  officially  Islamic;  overwhelming 
majority  of  nationals  Sunni  Muslims  (less  than  1  percent  Chris- 
tian). Activist  Islamism  increasing  in  some  areas. 

Education  and  Literacy:  Until  1991  modern  public  education 
offered  free  at  all  levels;  nationally  owned  educational  facilities  closed 
after  collapse  of  Somali  state;  school  attendance  grew  rapidly  in 


xiv 


settled  areas  in  1970s;  primary  education  extended  to  nomadic  chil- 
dren in  early  1980s.  Literacy  campaigns  resulted  in  substantial  in- 
creases in  1970s  but  less  than  government's  estimate  of  60  percent, 
with  relapse  among  nomads  by  1977;  United  Nations  estimate 
showed  24  percent  literacy  rate  in  1990. 

Health:  Improvement  in  numbers  of  health  care  personnel  and 
facilities  during  1970s  offset  by  civil  war,  refugee  burden,  and  failure 
to  expand  services  beyond  urban  areas;  weak  modern  medical 
infrastructure  deteriorated  dramatically  after  1991  collapse  of  central 
government.  High  incidence  of  pulmonary  tuberculosis,  malaria, 
tetanus,  parasitic  and  venereal  infections,  leprosy,  and  a  variety 
of  skin  and  eye  ailments;  relatively  low  incidence  of  human  im- 
munodeficiency virus  (HIV)  (less  than  1  percent)  through  1992; 
general  health  severely  affected  by  widespread  malnutrition  and 
famine  in  1992. 

Economy 

Salient  Features:  Formerly  socialist-oriented  economy  undergo- 
ing market- oriented  structural  adjustment  until  1991.  Stabilization 
and  macroeconomic  adjustment  programs  implemented  during 
1980s  under  auspices  of  international  credit  and  aid  agencies. 
Privatization  of  wholesale  trade  and  financial  sectors  largely  com- 
plete by  1991;  economic  growth  sporadic  and  uneven  across  sec- 
tors. Most  economic  activity  disrupted  by  breakdown  of  Somali 
state  in  1991. 

Agriculture,  Livestock,  Forestry,  and  Fisheries:  Crop  and 
livestock  production,  forestry,  and  fisheries  accounted  for  bulk  of 
gross  domestic  product  (GDP)  in  1991;  livestock  predominant 
agricultural  export,  also  important  source  of  animal  products  (most- 
ly milk)  for  internal  markets  and  subsistence.  Crop  cultivation  domi- 
nated by  rural  subsistence  sector,  which  generated  sufficient 
surpluses  to  sustain  domestic  informal  markets  and  barter  econo- 
my until  1990.  Main  crops:  sorghum,  corn;  incipient  production 
of  mild  narcotic  qat  suppressed  by  central  government  during 
mid-1980s.  Small  plantation  sector  dedicated  primarily  to  export 
of  bananas  and  sugarcane.  Domestic  grain  supply  supplemented 
by  international  food  aid.  Small  forestry  sector  dominated  by 
production  for  export  of  frankincense  and  myrrh.  Fisheries  produc- 
tion showed  modest  growth  during  1980s  but  remained  minor  eco- 
nomic activity.  Agricultural  activity  severely  curtailed  as  result  of 
drought  and  breakdown  of  Somali  state  in  1991. 


xv 


Mining:  Mining  contribution  to  GDP  negligible  (0.3  percent  of 
GDP  in  1988)  despite  substantial  deposits  of  gypsum-anhydrite, 
quartz  and  piezoquartz,  uranium,  and  iron  ore.  Meerschaum  (sepi- 
olite)  mined;  gold  deposits  suspected  but  not  confirmed. 

Manufacturing:  Small  manufacturing  sector,  based  primarily  on 
processing  of  agricultural  products,  consisted  of  few  large  state  en- 
terprises, hundreds  of  medium- sized  private  firms,  and  thousands 
of  small-scale  informal  operations.  Large-scale  enterprises  dedicated 
mainly  to  processing  of  sugar,  milk,  and  hides  and  skins.  Overall 
manufacturing  output  declined  during  1980s  as  result  of  failure 
of  inefficient  state  enterprises  under  market  conditions.  Manufac- 
turing activity  further  curtailed  by  civil  war  and  collapse  of  Soma- 
li state.  By  1990  manufacturing  ceased  to  play  significant  role  in 
economy  (about  5  percent  of  GDP). 

Energy:  Domestic  wood,  charcoal,  and  imported  petroleum  provid- 
ed basic  sources  of  energy;  significant  hydroelectric  potential  of  Jub- 
ba  River  remained  unexploited;  four  small-scale  wind  turbine 
generators  operated  in  Mogadishu.  Prior  to  civil  war,  eighty  state- 
owned  oil-fired  and  diesel  power  plants  provided  electricity  to  cit- 
ies and  towns.  Refining  capacity  limited  to  one  refinery.  Foreign 
oil  supplies  erratic  throughout  1980s.  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  hydrocarbon  study  in  1991  indicated  good  potential 
for  oil  and  gas  deposits  in  northern  Somalia. 

Foreign  Trade:  Exports  consisted  of  agricultural  raw  materials  and 
food  products.  Livestock  and  bananas  principal  exports,  followed 
by  hides  and  skins,  fish  and  fish  products,  and  myrrh.  Trade  balance 
remained  negative  throughout  1980s  and  early  1990s.  Principal 
imports  in  descending  order:  food,  transportation  equipment, 
nonelectrical  machinery,  cement  and  building  materials,  and  iron 
and  steel.  Italy  and  Arab  states  main  destinations  of  exports;  Italy 
main  country  of  origin  for  imported  Somali  goods  in  1990;  other 
minor  suppliers  included  Norway,  Bahrain,  and  Britain. 

Currency:  Somali  shilling.  During  1980s  currency  alternated  be- 
tween fixed  and  floating  rates;  as  of  March  31,  1992,  US$1  equaled 
3,800  shillings. 

Transportation 

Railroads:  None. 

Roads:  One  paved  road  extends  from  Berbera  in  north  through 
Mogadishu  to  Chisimayu.  Roads  of  all  categories  totaled  21,000 


xvi 


kilometers  in  1990:  2,600  kilometers  paved,  2,900  kilometers  gravel; 
15,500  kilometers  improved  earth  (stretches  frequently  impas- 
sable in  rainy  seasons).  Highway  infrastructure  insufficient  to  open 
up  isolated  areas  or  to  link  isolated  regions. 

Civil  Aviation:  Eight  paved  civilian  airfields;  fewer  than  twenty 
additional  widely-scattered  gravel  airfields.  International  airport 
at  Mogadishu  contains  4,500-meter  runway.  In  1990  domestic  ser- 
vice linked  Mogadishu  with  seven  other  Somali  cities.  Somali 
Airlines  owned  one  Airbus  310  in  1989.  No  scheduled  service  ex- 
isted in  1992. 

Ports  and  Shipping:  Four  major  ports:  deepwater  facilities  at  Ber- 
bera,  Mogadishu,  and  Chisimayu;  lighterage  port  at  Merca;  minor 
port  at  Maydh.  Port  modernization  program  launched  in  latter  half 
of  1980s  with  United  States  aid  significantly  improved  cargo  han- 
dling capabilities  at  Chisimayu,  and  increased  number  of  berths 
and  deepened  harbor  at  Berbera. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government  Structure:  Country  nominally  under  interim  provi- 
sional government  established  by  Executive  Committee  of  United 
Somali  Congress  (USC)  and  headed  by  provisional  president  Ali 
Mahdi  Mahammad  after  fall  of  Mahammad  Siad  Barre.  As  of  Sep- 
tember 1991 ,  country  effectively  under  control  of  as  many  as  twelve 
rival  clans  and  subclans.  Central  government  authority  at 
Mogadishu  challenged  by  Somali  National  Movement  (SNM), 
which  in  June  1991  declared  independent  Republic  of  Somaliland 
in  former  territory  of  British  Somaliland.  Constitution  of  1979  nomi- 
nally in  force  pending  new  constitution  proposed  by  provisional 
government.  Constitutionally  mandated  national  legislature  known 
as  People's  Assembly  inactive  since  January  1991. 

Administrative  Divisions:  Prior  to  fall  of  Siad  Barre  regime  in 
January  1991,  sixteen  administrative  regions,  each  containing  three 
to  six  districts,  with  exception  of  capital  region  that  was  subdivid- 
ed into  fifteen  districts,  for  total  of  eighty-four  districts.  Local 
government  authority  vested  in  regional  and  district  councils  whose 
members  were  elected,  but  whose  candidature  approved  by  district- 
level  government.  High  level  of  military  participation  in  regional 
and  district  councils.  Ministry  of  Local  Government  and  Rural  De- 
velopment exercised  authority  over  structure  of  local  government. 
From  1991  onward,  no  effective  government  organization  existed. 


xvii 


Politics:  During  1980s  authoritarian  regime  of  President  Maham- 
mad  Siad  Barre  abandoned  policy  of  scientific  socialism  on  Marxist- 
Leninist  lines  and  implemented  market-oriented  structural  reforms 
of  economy,  while  consolidating  personal  political  authority.  Broad- 
based  national  opposition  met  escalating  government  repression 
and  provoked  armed  revolt  in  1988  led  by  USC  and  SNM.  Civil 
war  caused  eventual  defeat  of  government  forces  and  exile  of  Siad 
Barre  in  January  1991.  USC  faction  led  by  General  Mahammad 
Faarah  Aidid  contested  authority  of  USC  Executive  Committee 
to  form  interim  government  and  established  rival  government  in 
southern  Mogadishu,  compelling  Mahammad' s  government  to 
retreat  to  northern  Mogadishu.  As  of  January  1993,  country  ef- 
fectively fragmented  under  control  of  as  many  as  twelve  contend- 
ing clan-families  and  clans. 

Judicial  System:  Four-tier  court  system — Supreme  Court,  courts 
of  appeal,  regional  courts,  and  district  courts — based  on  Western 
models.  Separate  National  Security  Courts  operating  outside  or- 
dinary legal  system  and  under  direct  control  of  executive  given 
broad  jurisdiction  over  offenses  defined  by  government  as  affect- 
ing state  security,  until  abolished  in  October  1990.  Unified  penal 
and  civil  law  codes  introduced  in  late  1960s  and  early  1970s,  but 
some  features  of  Islamic  law  considered  in  civil  matters. 

Foreign  Relations:  Foreign  relations  characterized  by  tension  with 
neighboring  states  and  economic  dependence  on  aid  from  Arab  and 
Western  nations.  Relations  with  neighboring  states  gradually  im- 
proved as  irredentist  claims  dating  from  pre-Ogaden  War  period 
(1977-78)  formally  abandoned  during  1980s;  despite  1988  peace 
agreement,  relations  with  Ethiopia  remained  strained  resulting  from 
mutual  harboring  of  foreign  guerrilla  forces  and  uncontrolled  mass 
migration.  Relations  with  Western  nations  and  United  States  broad- 
ened after  1977  rift  with  Soviet  Union;  United  States  military  and 
economic  aid  provided  throughout  1980s  but  suspended  in  1989 
because  of  human  rights  violations  by  Siad  Barre  government. 
Recipient  of  financial  support  from  conservative  Arab  oil  states. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  As  of  January  1991,  Somali  National  Army  and 
all  related  military  and  security  forces  disbanded;  indeterminate 
elements  reconstituted  as  clan  militias  and  irregular  regional  forces. 

Major  Tactical  Units:  Until  January  1991,  Army  ground  forces 
organized  into  twelve  divisions  composed  of  four  tank  brigades, 


xvin 


forty-five  mechanized  and  infantry  brigades,  four  commando 
brigades,  one  surface-to-air  missile  brigade,  three  field  artillery 
brigades,  thirty  field  battalions,  and  one  air  defense  battalion.  Poor 
serviceability  of  obsolete  equipment  of  Soviet  and  United  States 
origin.  Somali  Air  Force  organized  into  three  fighter  ground  at- 
tack squadrons;  three  fighter  squadrons;  one  counterinsurgency 
squadron;  one  transport  squadron;  and  one  helicopter  squadron. 
None  believed  to  be  operational  in  1992.  Small,  poorly  equipped 
naval  force  not  believed  to  be  operational. 

Major  Military  Suppliers:  Exclusively  supplied  by  Soviet  Union 
until  1977  when  Treaty  of  Friendship  and  Cooperation  was  ter- 
minated. Subsequentiy  Somalia  improved  relations  with  United 
States  and  received  average  of  US$36  to  $US40  million  per  year 
of  United  States  military  assistance  between  1983  and  1986.  Lev- 
els of  military  aid  during  1980s  insufficient  to  avert  deterioration 
and  collapse  of  Somali  armed  forces  by  1991. 

Military  Costs:  Military  expenditures  totaled  about  US$44.5  mil- 
lion annually  for  1980-90  decade.  Military  procurement  supported 
largely  by  foreign  financial  assistance  and  military  aid. 

Paramilitary  and  Internal  Security  Forces:  Somali  Police  Force, 
People's  Militia,  and  National  Security  Service  disbanded  as  of 
January  1991. 


xix 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Somalia,  1992 


xx 


Introduction 


THE  PEOPLE  WHO  LIVE  in  present-day  Somalia  have  an  an- 
cient history.  The  medieval  Arabs  called  them  Berberi,  and  ar- 
chaeological evidence  indicates  that  they  had  occupied  the  area 
known  as  the  Horn  of  Africa  by  A.D.  100  and  possibly  earlier. 
By  the  eighteenth  century,  the  Somalis — their  name  derives  from 
Samaal,  their  eponymous  ancestor — had  developed  pastoral 
nomadism  and  were  followers  of  Islam.  Their  first  contact  with 
Islam  is  believed  to  have  occurred  when  a  group  of  persecuted  Mus- 
lims from  Arabia  sought  refuge  in  the  region  at  the  time  of  the 
Prophet  Muhammad  in  the  eighth  century.  Historically,  the  area 
was  home  to  two  peoples:  pastoral  and  agropastoral  groups  living 
in  the  interior,  with  informal  and  varied  political  structures;  and 
trading  communities  on  the  coast,  such  as  Seylac  and  Berbera  in 
the  north  and  Merca  and  Mogadishu  in  the  south,  that  developed 
administrative  and  legal  systems  based  on  the  Muslim  sharia. 

The  Somalis  or  Samaal  consist  of  six  major  clan-families  (see 
Glossary).  Four  of  the  families  are  predominantly  pastoral — the 
Dir,  Daarood,  Isaaq,  and  Hawiye  (representing  about  70  percent 
of  Somalia's  population) — and  two  are  agricultural — the  Digil  and 
Rahanwayn  (constituting  about  20  percent  of  the  population).  The 
remainder  of  the  population  consists  of  urban  dwellers  and  mar- 
ginal non- Samaal  groups,  most  of  whom  engage  in  trade  or  crafts 
and  who  historically  have  lacked  political  participation  and  the 
Samaal  warrior  tradition. 

The  Digil  and  the  Rahanwayn  are  located  mainly  in  the  south 
in  the  area  between  the  Jubba  and  Shabeelle  rivers,  the  best  agricul- 
tural area.  The  rest  of  the  country  consists  primarily  of  arid  plateaus 
and  plains,  with  some  rugged  mountains  in  the  north  near  the  Gulf 
of  Aden  coast.  Because  of  sparse  rainfall,  nomadic  pastoralism  has 
been  the  principal  occupation  of  clan-families  in  much  of  the 
country. 

Historically,  Somalis  have  shown  a  fierce  independence,  an  un- 
willingness to  submit  to  authority,  a  strong  clan  consciousness,  and 
conflict  among  clans  and  subclans  despite  their  sharing  a  common 
language,  religion,  and  pastoral  customs.  Clans  are  integral  to 
Somali  life.  Clan  consciousness  has  been  described  as  centering 
around  the  struggle  for  recognition  in  all  its  forms — social,  politi- 
cal, economic,  and  cultural  rights  and  status.  Despite  this  clan  con- 
sciousness, the  Somali  community  historically  preserved  its  basic 
unity  because  of  the  relative  homogeneity  of  the  society. 


xxi 


Over  the  centuries,  the  Somali  Peninsula  and  the  East  African 
coast  were  subject  to  various  rulers,  including  the  Omanis,  the  Zan- 
zibaris,  the  sharifs  of  Mukha  in  present-day  Yemen,  and  the  Ot- 
toman Turks.  By  1885,  Somali  lands  were  under  five  rules:  the 
north  central  part  controlled  by  the  British;  the  northwest  (mainly 
present-day  Djibouti)  controlled  by  the  French;  the  south,  controlled 
by  the  Italians;  the  Ogaden  in  the  west  controlled  by  Ethiopia;  and 
the  southwestern  part  that  became  a  part  of  Kenya  (known  as  the 
Northern  Frontier  District).  This  colonial  control  continued  in  var- 
ious forms  until  Somalia  gained  its  independence  in  1960. 

The  British  and  Italians  followed  different  courses  in  their  colonial 
administration.  The  British  regarded  northern  Somalia  mainly  as 
a  source  of  livestock  for  Aden,  the  principal  supply  post  en  route 
to  India  through  the  Suez  Canal,  whereas  the  Italians  developed 
plantation  agriculture  based  on  bananas,  citrus  fruits,  and  sugar- 
cane in  southern  Somalia.  Between  1900  and  1920,  while  Italy  and 
Britain  were  consolidating  their  colonial  rule,  a  Muslim  resistance 
movement  arose  under  Mahammad  Abdille  Hasan,  whom  the  Brit- 
ish called  the  Mad  Mullah.  Until  he  died  in  1920,  Hasan,  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Salihiyah  brotherhood,  and  his  followers  constituted  a 
dervish  group  that  waged  war  originally  against  Ethiopia,  and  later 
against  the  British,  seeking  to  regain  the  Ogaden  for  Somalis. 

Early  in  World  War  II,  Italy  invaded  British  Somaliland  and 
ejected  the  British.  British  forces  retook  the  colony  in  1941  and 
conquered  Italian  Somaliland  and  the  Ogaden  as  well,  placing  all 
three  areas  under  British  military  administration.  The  Potsdam 
Conference  in  1945  decided  not  to  return  Italian  Somaliland  to 
Italy;  ultimately,  the  matter  was  referred  to  the  United  Nations 
(UN)  General  Assembly,  which  decided  in  1949  to  make  the 
southern  area  an  Italian  trust  territory.  Meanwhile,  under  pres- 
sure from  its  World  War  II  allies,  Britain  returned  the  Ogaden 
to  Ethiopia  in  1948,  to  the  dismay  of  Somalis  because  the  majori- 
ty of  the  inhabitants  were  Somalis. 

Nationalism  had  been  growing  in  Somalia,  largely  as  a  result 
of  the  efforts  of  salaried  Somali  colonial  officials  who  constituted 
an  urban  petty  bourgeoisie.  In  1943  the  first  Somali  political  party, 
the  Somali  Youth  Club,  was  created.  In  1947  the  group  changed 
its  name  to  the  Somali  Youth  League  (SYL)  and  adopted  the  goals 
of  unifying  all  Somali  territories  and  opposing  clannishness.  Part- 
ly in  response  to  nationalist  pressures,  both  the  Italians  and  the 
British  took  steps  to  improve  education  and  health  facilities,  spur 
economic  development,  and  give  Somalis  some  experience  in  the 
political  process. 


xxn 


United  States  president  George  Bush  visits  United  States 
forces  in  Somalia,  January  1,  1993. 
United  Nations  secretary  general  Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  inspects  UN 
forces  from  Pakistan  at  Mogadishu  Airport  in  mid-January  1993. 

Courtesy  United  States  Department  of  Defense 


xxiii 


Somalia's  independence  in  1960  faced  several  obstacles.  Econom- 
ically, the  country  was  obliged  to  rely  on  Italian  and  British  subsi- 
dies; it  also  had  to  obtain  other  foreign  loans  to  build  an 
infrastructure  and  to  create  model  farms  and  livestock  improve- 
ment programs,  all  designed  to  increase  exports.  Other  major  ob- 
stacles included  clan-family  and  subclan  rivalries,  the  irredentist 
pressures  to  incorporate  Somalis  living  under  various  administra- 
tions, and  differences  between  residents  of  British  and  Italian 
Somaliland.  These  differences  were  of  two  main  kinds:  economic 
(pastoral  nomadism  with  its  tending  of  flocks  as  opposed  to  plan- 
tation agriculture)  and  political  (northern  Somalis  were  less  ex- 
perienced in  administration  and  political  participation  than  their 
counterparts  in  the  south).  Furthermore,  the  new  Somali  consti- 
tution did  not  include  strategies  designed  to  move  citizens  away 
from  clan  loyalties  and  toward  national  objectives.  For  example, 
the  Iise  clan  of  the  Dir  clan-family  had  devised  a  system  by  which 
the  smallest  clan  was  given  a  special  role:  that  of  providing  the  over- 
all clan  leader  and  also  of  being  responsible  for  settling  disputes. 
Such  an  approach  could  have  served  as  a  model  for  the  Western 
framers  of  the  Somali  constitution. 

As  a  result  of  clan-family  dissensions,  one  of  the  major  objec- 
tives of  the  Somali  government  after  independence  became  that 
of  national  integration.  This  objective  was  accompanied  by  the  ef- 
forts of  the  first  president,  Abdirashiid  Ali  Shermaarke,  to  promote 
a  Greater  Somalia.  In  seeking  to  distance  itself  from  its  colonial 
past,  the  new  government  cultivated  relations  with  the  Soviet  Un- 
ion and  Eastern  Europe.  Soviet  influence  prevailed,  particularly 
in  the  armed  forces,  and  later  the  German  Democratic  Republic 
(East  Germany)  established  the  National  Security  Service  (NSS). 
The  police  force,  however,  was  trained  primarily  by  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany)  and  the  United  States.  The 
1969  elections  for  the  National  Assembly  demonstrated  the  Soma- 
li characteristic  of  independence:  sixty-four  political  parties  par- 
ticipated, some  of  them  as  small  as  one  man.  The  SYL,  however, 
dominated  the  field.  The  elections  revealed  that  various  groups, 
especially  the  military,  had  become  increasingly  critical  of  govern- 
ment corruption  and  nepotism. 

The  October  1969  killing  of  President  Shermaarke  by  one  of  his 
bodyguards  led  the  army,  which  had  previously  avoided  political 
participation,  to  take  over  under  army  commander  Major  Gener- 
al Mahammad  Siad  Barre.  The  new  governing  body,  the  Supreme 
Revolutionary  Council  (SRC),  named  Siad  Barre  president. 
Retroactively,  to  facilitate  continued  Soviet  aid,  the  SRC  indicat- 
ed it  was  pursuing  scientific  socialism,  although  Somalia  lacked 


xxiv 


the  infrastructure  appropriate  to  Marxist  socialism.  Among  the  new 
government's  objectives  were  breaking  up  the  old  regions  (adminis- 
trative units)  into  smaller  entities  and  resettling  many  of  the  nomads 
in  farming  and  fishing  cooperatives.  The  government  also  sought 
to  promote  nationalist  and  socialist  goals  by  appointing  "peacekeep- 
ers" to  replace  the  traditional  elders  and  by  creating  various  com- 
mittees in  place  of  clan  groups.  With  reference  to  the  legal  system, 
Siad  Barre  eliminated  codes  that  gave  clans  land,  water,  and  grazing 
rights.  He  also  abolished  the  Islamic  payment  of  blood  money  (diya) 
for  injuries.  Presumably,  all  these  steps  were  designed  to  break  down 
the  traditional  clan  structure  and  strengthen  the  personal  control 
of  Siad  Barre,  as  well  as  to  weaken  the  role  of  religious  leaders. 

Although  Siad  Barre  proclaimed  scientific  socialism  compatible 
with  Islam,  his  regime  attempted  to  reduce  the  influence,  particu- 
larly in  politics,  of  Muslim  leaders.  Historically,  clans  had  relied 
on  itinerant  religious  teachers  and  on  religiously  devout  males, 
known  as  wadaddo,  who  generally  were  the  only  literate  individu- 
als and  who  often  occupied  judicial  roles.  These  religious  functions 
were  supplemented  by  Sufi  religious  orders  or  brotherhoods,  whose 
leaders  were  more  learned  than  the  wadaddo.  The  best  known  of 
the  latter  was  Mahammad  Abdille  Hasan,  the  early  twentieth- 
century  leader  of  the  revolt  against  the  British.  In  the  first  half  of 
the  twentieth  century,  religious  teachers  provided  most  of  Somali 
education  through  Quranic  schools  that  gave  minimal  literacy  in- 
struction. A  major  difficulty  was  the  absence  of  an  agreed-upon 
orthography  for  the  Somali  language  until  the  government  decreed 
one  in  1973.  The  government  undertook  a  huge  literacy  campaign 
thereafter  and  established  numerous  primary  schools,  some  second- 
ary schools,  and  a  university.  As  of  1990,  Somalia  had  4,600  univer- 
sity students. 

Whereas  in  its  early  years  the  SRC  devoted  considerable  atten- 
tion to  such  fields  as  education  and  economics,  later  a  major  part 
of  its  activity  related  to  the  political  sphere.  Despite  the  SRC's 
denunciation  of  clannishness,  the  clans  connected  with  Siad  Barre 
and  his  family  became  sufficiently  prominent  to  be  dubbed  the 
MOD  (Mareehaan-Ogaden-Dulbahante — the  name  of  Siad  Barre 's 
clan,  his  mother's  clan,  and  his  son-in-law's  clan,  respectively). 
Initially,  the  SRC  outlawed  political  parties,  but  in  1976  Siad  Barre 
dissolved  the  SRC  (it  was  later  revived)  and  created  one  national 
party,  the  Somali  Revolutionary  Socialist  Party  (SRSP).  The  party 
in  practice  occupied  a  largely  ceremonial  position;  actual  power 
remained  with  Siad  Barre. 

To  entrench  his  personal  rule  and  in  an  attempt  to  regain  the 
Ogaden,  Siad  Barre  launched  the  Ogaden  War  against  Ethiopia 


xxv 


in  1977.  The  war  officially  ended  in  1978,  but  low-level  conflict 
continued  with  border  raids  and  skirmishes  for  years  afterward. 
Somalia  experienced  defeat  and  the  death  of  8,000  men,  the  in- 
flux of  about  650,000  ethnic  Somali  and  Ethiopian  Oromo  refu- 
gees, and  a  severe  drain  on  its  economy.  The  economic  drain  was 
caused  by  the  purchase  of  military  materiel  to  replace  equipment 
lost  in  the  war — three-quarters  of  Somalia's  armored  units  and  one- 
half  of  its  air  force.  Having  lost  its  alliance  with  the  Soviet  Union, 
which  shifted  its  support  to  Ethiopia  during  the  war,  Somalia  sought 
military  aid  from  the  United  States.  The  latter,  following  the  fall 
of  the  shah  of  Iran  in  1979,  was  eager  to  bolster  defenses  in  the 
Persian  Gulf-Indian  Ocean  area.  As  a  result,  in  return  for  the  Unit- 
ed States  provision  of  arms  and  military  training,  in  1980  the  United 
States  and  Somalia  concluded  a  military  access  agreement  by  which 
the  United  States  could  use  Somali  ports  and  airfields  in  the  event 
of  a  crisis.  The  expansion  of  its  armed  forces,  which  grew  from 
5,000  troops  at  independence  to  65,000  in  1990,  also  sapped  Soma- 
lia's economy;  for  example,  30  percent  of  the  national  budget  went 
for  the  military  in  the  mid-1980s. 

To  develop  the  economy,  in  the  early  years  of  his  regime  Siad 
Barre  launched  several  development  plans,  created  agricultural  and 
fishing  cooperatives,  and  began  establishing  food  processing  plants. 
Somalia's  foreign  debt,  however,  increased  at  a  tremendous  rate 
as  a  result  of  the  1977-78  Ogaden  War.  Unable  to  call  on  the  Soviet 
Union  for  aid,  the  Siad  Barre  regime  turned  for  economic  aid  to 
the  West,  to  oil-producing  Arab  states  such  as  Kuwait,  Qatar,  Saudi 
Arabia,  and  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  and  to  the  World  Bank 
(see  Glossary).  The  economic  crisis  forced  Somalia  to  devalue  its 
currency  and  to  encourage  privatization.  Economic  output  from 
agriculture  and  manufacturing,  however,  showed  little  progress  and 
in  some  cases  declined,  partly  as  a  result  of  intermittent  droughts. 
The  country  lacked  any  energy  sources,  apart  from  wood  and  char- 
coal, despite  surveys  that  indicated  the  likelihood  of  oil  offshore 
in  the  Gulf  of  Aden.  Moreover,  its  transportation  and  communi- 
cations networks  were  minimal.  In  addition  to  livestock  and  agricul- 
tural products,  which  have  constituted  the  bulk  of  Somalia's  exports, 
the  country  did  have  a  number  of  undeveloped  sectors,  however. 
Among  the  chief  of  these  were  forestry  (myrrh  and  frankincense 
were  among  Somalia's  exports),  fishing,  and  mineral  deposits,  in- 
cluding uranium. 

Following  the  Ogaden  War,  Siad  Barre  recognized  that  to  gain 
Western  support  he  needed  to  create  a  political  system  that  would 
appear  to  restore  many  civil  rights  that  had  been  eliminated  by 
the  military  regime.  Accordingly,  the  constitution  of  1979  provided 


xxvi 


Somali  men  unloading  sacks 
of  Australian  wheat  outside 
Malaile,  northwest  of 
Chisimayu,  January  1993; 
United  States  Marine  CH-53 
Sea  Stallion  helicopter  hovers 
in  background  about  to  deliver. 
Courtesy  United  States 
Department  of  Defense 


Sorghum  destined  for  Baidoa 
being  unloaded  from  British 
C-130  Hercules  cargo  aircraft, 
January  1993 
Courtesy  United  States 
Department  of  Defense 


xxvn 


for  freedom  of  speech,  religion,  publication,  and  assembly,  but  these 
rights  were  subject  to  major  qualifications.  The  constitution  made 
the  president  both  head  of  state  and  head  of  government,  with  broad 
powers  to  conduct  foreign  affairs,  serve  as  commander  in  chief  of 
the  armed  forces,  appoint  various  ministers  and  leading  officials, 
and  dissolve  the  legislature.  Members  of  a  single-chamber  legisla- 
ture, the  People's  Assembly,  served  a  five-year  term,  with  the 
government  drawing  up  official  lists  of  candidates  and  the  assem- 
bly occupying  a  largely  symbolic  position.  On  the  local  govern- 
ment level,  Siad  Barre  had  dissolved  all  elected  bodies  following 
the  military  coup  and  required  that  all  candidates  for  election  be 
approved  by  the  central  government.  The  constitution  confirmed 
the  National  Security  Courts  introduced  by  Siad  Barre;  these  courts 
had  jurisdiction  over  numerous  cases  and  supplemented  the  regu- 
lar courts.  Siad  Barre  appointed  only  military  officers  to  the  High 
Court,  thus  bringing  the  judiciary  under  the  executive. 

Another  result  of  the  Ogaden  War  was  the  rise  of  several  or- 
ganized internal  opposition  movements.  To  counter  them,  Siad 
Barre  undertook  increasingly  repressive  measures,  including  mea- 
sures that  involved  numerous  human  rights  violations.  After  judg- 
ing a  number  of  Majeerteen  members  of  the  military  guilty  of  a 
coup  attempt  in  1978,  Siad  Barre  initiated  a  campaign  against  the 
clan-family,  using  the  Red  Berets,  an  elite  unit  that  served  as  his 
bodyguard.  Several  Majeerteen  colonels  escaped  and  fled  abroad, 
where  in  1978  they  formed  the  Somali  Salvation  Front,  renamed 
in  1979  the  Somali  Salvation  Democratic  Front  (SSDF).  This  was 
the  first  opposition  movement  dedicated  to  overthrowing  the  re- 
gime by  force. 

Siad  Barre  then  turned  on  the  Isaaq  in  the  north,  who  were  dis- 
contented because  they  felt  inadequately  represented  in  his  govern- 
ment. Isaaq  dissidents  in  London  had  formed  the  Somali  National 
Movement  (SNM)  in  1981  to  topple  Siad  Barre 's  regime.  In  1982 
they  transferred  their  headquarters  to  Dire  Dawa,  Ethiopia,  from 
where  they  conducted  guerrilla  raids  against  Somali  government- 
held  territory.  Siad  Barre 's  campaign  against  the  Isaaq  was  par- 
ticularly bloody;  it  included  the  1988  destruction  by  bombing  of 
Hargeysa,  Somalia's  major  northern  city,  causing  the  flight  to 
neighboring  countries  of  tens  of  thousands  of  refugees.  Next,  Siad 
Barre  attacked  the  Hawiye  in  the  central  area  around  Mogadishu. 
The  Hawiye  had  meanwhile  formed  their  own  opposition  move- 
ment, the  United  Somali  Congress  (USC),  which  received  sup- 
port from  the  SNM. 

Siad  Barre  thus  progressively  alienated  an  increasing  number 
of  clans,  including  some,  such  as  the  Ogaden,  that  originally  had 


xxvm 


given  him  strong  support.  The  Ogaden  blamed  him  for  Somalia's 
defeat  in  the  Ogaden  War  and  opposed  his  1988  peace  treaty  and 
resumption  of  diplomatic  relations  with  Ethiopia.  As  a  result  of 
Siad  Barre's  actions,  many  Ogaden  officers  deserted  from  the  army 
and  joined  the  Somali  Patriotic  Movement  (SPM),  an  opposition 
group  that  had  been  formed  in  1985  and  that  also  received  SNM 
support. 

The  various  opposition  groups  waged  relatively  intense  warfare 
against  the  national  army  during  Siad  Barre's  final  three  years  in 
office  and  gained  control  of  extensive  government  areas:  the  SNM 
in  the  northwest,  the  USC  in  the  center,  and  the  SPM  in  the  south. 
Africa  Watch  reported  that  50,000  unarmed  civilians  were  killed 
in  the  course  of  Siad  Barre's  various  reprisals  against  the  Majeer- 
teen,  Isaaq,  and  Hawiye.  Thousands  more  died  of  starvation  result- 
ing from  the  poisoning  of  waterwells  and  the  slaughtering  of  cattle. 
In  addition,  hundreds  of  thousands  sought  refuge  outside  the 
country. 

Following  a  July  1989  demonstration  in  Mogadishu  in  which 
about  450  persons  were  killed  by  government  forces,  leaders  from 
various  sectors  of  society,  representing  all  clan-families,  formed  the 
Council  for  National  Reconstruction  and  Salvation  to  press  for  po- 
litical change.  In  May  1990,  they  published  a  manifesto  calling 
for  Siad  Barre's  resignation,  the  establishment  of  an  interim  gov- 
ernment representing  opposition  movements,  and  a  timetable  for 
multiparty  elections.  Siad  Barre  ordered  the  arrest  of  the  114  sig- 
natories, but  the  security  forces  could  only  locate  45  persons.  For- 
eign protests  over  their  detention  forced  their  release.  Meanwhile, 
the  opposition  groups  recognized  the  need  to  hold  talks  among  them- 
selves to  coordinate  strategy;  time,  however,  did  not  allow  mutual 
trust  to  develop. 

Opposition  forces  defeated  Siad  Barre's  regime  on  January  27, 
1991.  Long  before  the  government  collapsed,  however,  the  armed 
forces,  the  police  force,  the  People's  Militia,  government  minis- 
tries, and  institutions  such  as  the  People's  Assembly,  schools,  and 
health  facilities,  for  all  practical  purposes,  had  ceased  to  operate. 
Siad  Barre  fled  Mogadishu,  and,  after  a  stay  in  Kenya,  ultimately 
sought  refuge  in  Nigeria.  The  USC  announced  the  formation  of 
a  provisional  government  in  February  1991,  with  Ali  Mahdi  Ma- 
hammad  of  the  Hawiye  clan-family  as  president  and  Umar  Arteh 
Ghalib,  of  the  Isaaq  clan-family,  as  prime  minister.  However,  for- 
mer army  commander  General  Mahammad  Faarah  Aidid  opposed 
Mahammad's  presidency  and  eventually  split  off  to  form  his  own 
USC  faction.  The  provisional  USC  government  created  a  Minis- 
try of  Constitutional  Affairs  charged  with  planning  a  constitutional 


xxix 


convention  and  revising  the  constitution.  Meanwhile,  provisions 
of  the  constitution  of  1979  that  had  not  been  specifically  voided 
by  the  provisional  government  remained  in  force.  The  provision- 
al government  also  announced  its  intention  of  restoring  judicial 
independence. 

The  USC's  establishment  of  a  provisional  government  angered 
other  opposition  groups  who  felt  they  had  not  been  consulted.  In 
the  subsequent  clashes,  the  SSDF  and  the  SPM  aligned  themselves 
against  the  USC .  In  the  course  of  the  fighting,  control  of  various 
towns  such  as  Chisimayu  and  Baidoa  changed  hands  several  times. 
A  number  of  cease-fires  were  announced  between  early  April  1991 
and  the  latter  part  of  1992,  but  none  remained  in  effect  long. 

Meanwhile,  in  the  north  the  SNM  refused  to  participate  in  the 
unity  talks  proposed  by  the  USC.  In  May  1991,  the  SNM 
proclaimed  the  Republic  of  Somaliland  as  an  interim  government, 
pending  1993  elections,  and  decreed  the  sharia  as  its  legal  base. 
As  of  early  1993,  the  Republic  of  Somaliland  had  not  been  recog- 
nized by  any  foreign  government.  Moreover,  the  government  has 
proved  ineffective  in  establishing  its  authority  throughout  the  region 
of  former  British  Somaliland  that  it  claims  to  control. 

In  the  Mogadishu  area,  each  of  the  opposition  groups  drew  sup- 
port from  a  particular  clan  and  each  resorted  to  arms  to  further 
its  claims.  The  result  was  disintegration  of  government,  civil  soci- 
ety, and  essential  services  by  September  1991  if  not  earlier.  Seri- 
ous fighting  in  Mogadishu  began  in  September  1991,  intensified 
in  November,  and  by  the  end  of  March  1992  was  estimated  by 
Africa  Watch  to  have  caused  14,000  deaths  and  27,000  wounded. 
Mahammad,  a  member  of  the  Abgaal  clan  of  the  Hawiye  clan- 
family  and  leader  of  one  USC  faction  that  had  a  force  of  about 
5,000  fighters,  gained  control  of  northern  Mogadishu.  He  was 
challenged  primarily  by  Aidid,  of  the  Habar  Gidir  clan  of  the 
Hawiye,  who  led  a  USC  faction  of  about  10,000  guerrillas  that  ad- 
vocated cooperation  with  the  SNM.  During  1991  and  1992,  out- 
side parties,  such  as  Djibouti,  the  League  of  Arab  States,  the 
Organization  of  African  Unity,  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference,  and  the  United  Nations  made  numerous  unsuccess- 
ful attempts  to  end  the  fighting  in  Mogadishu. 

The  situation  in  the  country  as  a  whole  deteriorated  rapidly,  as 
a  result  not  only  of  the  civil  war  but  also  of  the  drought  in  central 
and  southern  Somalia  that  left  hundreds  of  thousands  starving.  By 
August  1992,  Somali  refugees  were  reliably  estimated  at  500,000  in 
Ethiopia,  300,000  in  Kenya,  65,000  in  Yemen,  15,000  in  Djibouti, 
and  about  100,000  in  Europe.  The  civil  war  destroyed  Somalia's 
infrastructure  and  brought  all  economic  activities,  apart  from 


xxx 


Russian  aircrew  personnel  at  Mogadishu  Airport  unload  some 
prefabricated  roofs  for  shelters  from  a  Russian  AH-124 
as  United  States  Air  Force  personnel  look  on. 
United  States  Marines  escort  a  UN  food  convoy  from  Mogadishu  to 

Baidoa,  January  1993. 
Courtesy  United  States  Department  of  Defense 


XXXI 


minimal  subsistence  agriculture,  herding,  and  internal  trade,  to 
a  virtual  halt.  Following  an  official  visit  to  Somalia  in  early  Au- 
gust 1992  by  Muhammad  Sahnoun,  the  UN  Special  Representa- 
tive, and  Bernard  Kouchner,  the  French  minister  of  health  and 
humanitarian  action,  an  estimate  was  released  that  approximately 
one-fourth  of  the  population,  about  1.5  million  people,  was  in 
danger  of  death  by  starvation.  Other  estimates  ran  as  high  as  one- 
third  of  the  population.  A  United  States  Centers  for  Disease  Con- 
trol study  further  showed  that  in  the  city  of  Baidoa  at  least  40  per- 
cent of  the  August  1992  population  had  died  between  August  9 
and  November  14;  relief  organizations  estimated  that  as  of  Sep- 
tember, 25  percent  of  all  Somali  children  under  five  years  of  age 
had  died. 

The  problem  of  food  distribution  to  the  starving  was  aggravat- 
ed by  armed  bandits,  frequently  under  the  influence  of  qat,  a  mildly 
stimulating  narcotic  that  was  grown  in  several  areas  of  East  Afri- 
ca. These  bandits,  who  recognized  no  authority  except  occasion- 
ally that  of  local  warlords,  looted  warehouses  in  Mogadishu  and 
other  major  centers  as  well  as  shipments  of  food  to  the  interior. 
The  rise  of  local  warlords,  who  controlled  the  cities,  including  har- 
bors and  airports,  as  opposed  to  traditional  clan  leaders,  clan  coun- 
cils, and  clan-recruited  militias  in  the  hinterland,  was  a  relatively 
new  phenomenon  in  Somali  society.  Their  rise  has  been  attribut- 
ed to  the  breakdown  of  central  government  authority  and  the  lack 
of  strong,  well-organized  opposition  parties.  The  availability  of  vast 
quantities  of  arms  in  the  country  from  earlier  Soviet  and  United 
States  arming  of  Somalia  (between  the  early  1980s  and  mid- 1990, 
the  United  States  provided  Somalia  with  US$403  million  in  mili- 
tary aid),  from  the  large  caches  of  arms  gained  in  gray  and  black 
markets,  and  from  the  cross-border  trade,  particularly  in  ammu- 
nition, as  well  as  the  military  training  that  the  Siad  Barre  regime 
required  all  school  and  college  graduates  and  civil  servants  to  un- 
dergo further  facilitated  the  rise  of  warlords. 

In  response  to  this  critical  situation,  UN  secretary  general 
Boutros-Ghali  announced  in  early  August  that  he  would  send  UN 
soldiers  to  Somalia  to  protect  food  supplies.  In  mid-August  Unit- 
ed States  president  George  Bush  ordered  a  food  air  lift  to  Soma- 
lia. In  implementation  of  his  earlier  pledge  to  protect  food  aid 
convoys,  on  August  28  Boutros-Ghali  authorized  sending  3,500 
personnel  in  addition  to  a  500-man  Pakistani  force  already  autho- 
rized for  Somalia.  The  UN  mandate  (including  the  size  of  the  force 
and  the  rules  of  engagement)  was  insufficient,  however,  to  estab- 
lish a  secure  environment. 


XXXI 1 


Somali  villagers  line  up  to  receive  food  provided  by  UN  and 

international  relief  organizations. 
Somalis  wait  near  their  water  bottles  as  a  container  is  being  filled 
from  a  well  north  of  Mogadishu,  January  1993. 
Courtesy  United  States  Department  of  Defense 


xxxiii 


After  a  number  of  delays  resulting  from  the  opposition  of  local 
warlords,  on  November  10  Pakistani  units  were  allowed  to  enter 
Mogadishu  airport.  Meanwhile,  on  November  21  the  United  States 
National  Security  Council  decided  to  intervene  in  Somalia.  It  did 
so  because  of  the  scale  of  human  disaster  and  the  realization  that 
the  United  States  was  the  only  nation  perceived  by  Somalis  and 
by  the  regional  states  as  being  in  a  position  to  maintain  neutrality 
and  with  the  ability  to  launch  the  necessary  large-scale  aid  opera- 
tion. The  first  United  States  military  units  in  Operation  Restore 
Hope  arrived  in  Mogadishu  on  December  9.  They  were  joined  by 
elements  of  the  French  Foreign  Legion  from  Djibouti  with  other 
forces  from  Belgium,  Canada,  Egypt,  Italy,  Saudi  Arabia,  and  Tur- 
key expected.  To  avoid  contact  with  the  foreign  forces,  Somali 
armed  groups  and  their  '  'technicals"  (vehicles  on  which  an  auto- 
matic weapon  had  been  mounted)  began  leaving  Mogadishu,  thus 
exacerbating  security  problems  in  the  hinterland. 

United  States  forces  and  those  of  their  allies  gradually  branched 
out  from  the  airport  and  harbor  of  Mogadishu  to  the  surrounding 
area.  In  succession  they  secured  the  Soviet-built  airport  at  Baledogle 
(halfway  to  Baidoa),  Baidoa,  and  then  Chisimayu,  Baardheere,  Od- 
dur,  Beledweyne,  and  Jalalaqsi.  The  plan  entailed  setting  up  food 
distribution  centers  in  each  of  the  major  areas  affected  by  the  fam- 
ine and  bringing  in  large  quantities  of  food  so  as  to  eliminate  loot- 
ing and  hoarding.  By  doing  so,  the  operation  would  ensure  that 
food  was  no  longer  a  power  chip,  thereby  eliminating  the  role  of 
the  warlords.  As  the  provision  of  food  to  southern  Somalia  reached 
massive  proportions,  however,  it  became  clear  that  as  a  result  of 
the  August  rains  and  resultant  domestic  crop  production,  it  would 
be  necessary  to  sell  some  of  the  donated  grain  in  local  markets  at 
a  suitable  price  in  order  to  safeguard  the  livelihood  of  local  farm- 
ers in  the  hinterland. 

The  question  of  the  security  of  food  shipments  proved  a  difficult 
one  with  respect  to  disarming  the  population.  By  January  7,  1993, 
after  completing  the  first  stage  of  Operation  Restore  Hope,  Unit- 
ed States  forces  began  to  pursue  "technicals"  and  raid  arms  depots 
in  order  to  safeguard  the  operation  and  protect  United  States  and 
allied  personnel  and  Somali  civilians. 

In  the  second  stage  of  the  operation,  United  States  political 
officers  began  coordinating  town  meetings  in  Mogadishu,  Baidoa, 
Baardheere,  and  Chisimayu,  encouraging  Somalis  to  set  up  their 
own  municipal  institutions.  Furthermore,  United  States  military 
personnel  cleared  streets  and  restored  municipal  water  systems.  Ob- 
servers noted  that  some  Somali  women  with  a  gift  for  reconciliation 


xxxiv 


Children  gather  along  a  wall,  next  to  a  soldier  on  guard  duty 
in  the  street  of  Merca,  southwest  of  Mogadishu. 
United  States  Navy  doctor  examines  a  Somali  infant  held  by  her  mother 
during  a  medical  civic-action  program  in  Mogadishu,  January  1993. 

Courtesy  United  States  Department  of  Defense 


XXXV 


were  playing  key  roles  in  operating  many  of  the  food  distribution 
centers  established  by  nongovernmental  organizations. 

Meanwhile,  on  the  political  level,  in  an  effort  to  further  recon- 
ciliation, Aidid  and  Mahammad  met  several  times,  as  arranged 
by  former  United  States  ambassador  to  Somalia  Robert  B.  Oak- 
ley, who  served  as  special  presidential  envoy.  On  December  28, 
the  two  Somalis  led  a  peace  march  along  the  Green  Line  separat- 
ing the  two  areas  of  Mogadishu  controlled  by  their  forces.  Other 
factors  complicating  a  political  settlement  were  the  control  of  Baard- 
heere  by  Mahammad  Siad  Hersi  Morgan,  the  son-in-law  of  Siad 
Barre  and  leader  of  the  Somali  National  Front,  a  Mareehaan  or- 
ganization; and  the  control  of  Chisimayu  by  Colonel  Ahmad  Omar 
Jess,  a  leader  allied  with  the  SDM  and  the  Southern  Somali  Na- 
tional Movement  (SSNM).  Jess  was  reliably  reported  to  have  killed 
between  100  and  200  individuals  whom  he  regarded  as  potential 
enemies  before  United  States  forces  reached  Chisimayu. 

As  a  symbol  of  support  for  United  States  forces  and  their  efforts 
in  Somalia,  President  Bush  arrived  on  New  Year's  Eve  for  a  one- 
day  visit  and  received  a  warm  welcome  from  Somalis.  In  contrast, 
the  UN  secretary  general  faced  an  angry  reception  from  Somali 
crowds  on  January  3.  The  Somalis  remembered  Boutros-Ghali's 
former  cordial  relationship  with  Siad  Barre  when  Boutros-Ghali 
served  as  Egyptian  minister  of  foreign  affairs.  They  also  faulted 
the  UN  for  its  long  inaction  in  relieving  the  starvation  in  Somalia; 
voluntary  organizations,  particularly  the  International  Commit- 
tee of  the  Red  Cross,  had  proved  more  effective  than  the  UN  in 
sending  food  to  Somalia  and  in  setting  up  kitchens  to  feed  hundreds 
of  thousands  daily.  Despite  this  negative  reception,  on  January  4 
the  leaders  of  fourteen  Somali  factions  attended  meetings  in  Addis 
Ababa  chaired  by  the  UN  secretary  general  at  which  the  United 
States  was  represented.  After  considerable  discussion,  on  January 
15  the  faction  leaders  signed  a  cease-fire  agreement  and  a  disar- 
mament pact  and  called  for  a  national  reconciliation  conference 
to  be  held  in  Addis  Ababa  on  March  15.  Despite  the  cease-fire, 
fighting  and  instability  in  Somalia  continued  to  exist  in  late  January. 

Because  of  the  number  of  foreign  forces  that  had  joined  Opera- 
tion Restore  Hope — as  of  January  9  these  numbered  about 
10,000 — the  first  contingent  of  United  States  military  personnel 
began  to  leave  Somalia  on  January  19.  The  immediate  United 
States  goal  was  to  turn  over  the  operation  as  rapidly  as  possible  to  a 
UN  force:  UN  Operations-Somalia  (UNOSOM  II).  The  United 
States  was  to  provide  the  deputy  commander  and  other  staff  officers, 
logistics  units,  and  possibly  the  initial  Quick-Reaction  Force. 


xxxvi 


With  regard  to  Somalia's  future,  the  role  of  Islamism,  some- 
times referred  to  as  fundamentalism,  concerned  the  United  States 
and  some  of  its  allies.  In  the  north,  Islamic  militants,  who  were 
well  trained  and  armed  and  supplied  with  funds  primarily  by 
wealthy  Saudis,  had  at  one  time  controlled  the  town  of  Bender  Cas- 
sim,  in  the  northeast  but  had  been  driven  out  by  the  SSDF.  From 
Bender  Cassim,  the  Islamists  spread  westward  into  such  SNM  areas 
as  Hargeysa.  Although  Islamic  militants,  known  as  the  Somali  Is- 
lamic Union  or  popularly  as  Ittihad  (Union),  had  relatively  few 
supporters  in  Somalia,  their  numbers  appeared  to  be  increasing 
somewhat.  In  the  latter  months  of  1992,  they  became  active  in  Mer- 
ca,  the  seaport  south  of  Mogadishu,  where  they  had  sought  an  al- 
liance with  clan  leaders  in  the  SSNM,  which  was  aligned  with  that 
section  of  the  USC  led  by  Aidid.  Time  would  indicate  whether  the 
Islamists  could  prove  effective  in  providing  services  that  the  govern- 
ment was  not  providing  in  such  fields  as  education  and  health.  If 
so,  the  likelihood  of  their  gaining  followers  would  increase  greatly. 

Other  steps  toward  the  creation  of  what  President  Bush  termed 
a  "secure  environment"  included  a  discussion  held  in  mid-January 
between  Aidid  and  Mahammad  on  reestablishing  a  police  force. 
The  police  force  had  traditionally  commanded  respect  in  Somalia, 
and  if  such  a  force  could  be  reconstituted,  initially  in  a  number 
of  regions  but  ultimately  nationally,  it  would  help  diminish  the  pow- 
er of  the  warlords  and  restore  internal  order.  It  was  also  likely  to 
strengthen  the  position  of  traditional  clan  elders.  Such  steps  would 
be  consonant  with  the  apparent  goal  of  the  UN  Security  Council 
to  create  a  national  government  in  Somalia  with  sufficient  authority 
to  maintain  security  but  one  that  allowed  considerable  autonomy 
to  the  various  regions. 

The  situation  with  regard  to  the  relationship  of  the  self-proclaimed 
Republic  of  Somaliland  in  the  north  and  the  rest  of  Somalia  in  the 
south  remained  unclear.  Most  knowledgeable  observers  noted  that 
as  yet  there  was  no  effective  government  in  the  northern  region 
that  could  negotiate  with  the  remainder  of  Somalia.  Therefore,  in 
the  near  future  the  establishment  of  either  a  federation  with  Somalia 
or  a  unitary  state  combining  the  two  as  in  the  past  was  unlikely. 


January  29,  1993  Helen  Chapin  Metz 


XXXVll 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


Shaykh  Abdulaziz  Mosque,  one  of  Mogadishu's  oldest  historical 
structures 


LOCATED  IN  THE  HORN  OF  AFRICA,  adjacent  to  the  Ara- 
bian Peninsula,  Somalia  is  steeped  in  thousands  of  years  of  history. 
The  ancient  Egyptians  spoke  of  it  as  "God's  Land"  (the  Land  of 
Punt).  Chinese  merchants  frequented  the  Somali  coast  in  the  tenth 
and  fourteenth  centuries  and,  according  to  tradition,  returned  home 
with  giraffes,  leopards,  and  tortoises  to  add  color  and  variety  to 
the  imperial  menagerie.  Greek  merchant  ships  and  medieval  Arab 
dhows  plied  the  Somali  coast;  for  them  it  formed  the  eastern  fringe 
of  Bilad  as  Sudan,  "the  Land  of  the  Blacks."  More  specifically, 
medieval  Arabs  referred  to  the  Somalis,  along  with  related  peo- 
ples, as  the  Berberi. 

By  the  eighteenth  century,  the  Somalis  essentially  had  developed 
their  present  way  of  life,  which  is  based  on  pastoral  nomadism  and 
the  Islamic  faith.  During  the  colonial  period  (approximately  1891 
to  1960),  the  Somalis  were  separated  into  five  Somali  regions:  British 
Somaliland  (north  central);  French  Somaliland  (northwest);  Italian 
Somaliland  (south);  Ethiopian  Somaliland  (the  Ogaden);  and  what 
came  to  be  called  the  Northern  Frontier  District  (NFD)  of  Kenya. 
In  1960  Italian  Somaliland  and  British  Somaliland  were  merged 
into  a  single  independent  state,  the  Somali  Republic.  In  its  first 
nine  years,  the  Somali  state,  although  plagued  by  territorial  dis- 
putes with  Ethiopia  and  Kenya,  and  by  difficulties  in  integrating 
the  dual  legacy  of  Italian  and  British  administrations,  remained 
a  model  of  democratic  governance  in  Africa;  governments  were 
regularly  voted  into  and  out  of  office.  Taking  advantage  of  the 
widespread  public  bitterness  and  cynicism  attendant  upon  the  rigged 
elections  of  early  1969,  Major  General  Mahammad  Siad  Barre 
seized  power  on  October  21,  1969,  in  a  bloodless  coup.  Over  the 
next  twenty-one  years,  Siad  Barre  established  a  military  dictator- 
ship that  divided  and  oppressed  the  Somalis.  Siad  Barre  maintained 
control  of  the  social  system  by  playing  off  clan  against  clan  until 
the  country  became  riven  with  interclan  strife  and  bloodshed.  Siad 
Barre 's  regime  came  to  a  disastrous  end  in  early  1991  with  the  col- 
lapse of  the  Somali  state.  In  the  regime's  place  emerged  armed  clan 
militias  fighting  one  another  for  political  power.  Siad  Barre  fled 
the  capital  on  January  27,  1991,  into  the  safety  of  his  Mareehaan 
clan's  territory  in  southern  Somalia. 

The  Somalis:  Their  Origins,  Migrations,  and  Settlement 

A  paucity  of  written  historical  evidence  forces  the  student  of  early 


3 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Somalia  to  depend  on  the  findings  of  archeology,  anthropology, 
historical  linguistics,  and  related  disciplines.  Such  evidence  has 
provided  insights  that  in  some  cases  have  refuted  conventional  ex- 
planations of  the  origins  and  evolution  of  the  Somali  people.  For 
example,  where  historians  once  believed  that  the  Somalis  originated 
on  the  Red  Sea's  western  coast,  or  perhaps  in  southern  Arabia, 
it  now  seems  clear  that  the  ancestral  homeland  of  the  Somalis, 
together  with  affiliated  Cushite  peoples,  was  in  the  highlands  of 
southern  Ethiopia,  specifically  in  the  lake  regions.  Similarly,  the 
once-common  notion  that  the  migration  and  settlement  of  early 
Muslim  followers  of  the  Prophet  Muhammad  on  the  Somali  coast 
had  a  significant  impact  on  the  Somalis  no  longer  enjoys  much  aca- 
demic support.  Scholars  now  recognize  that  the  Arab  factor — except 
for  the  Somalis'  conversion  to  Islam — is  marginal  to  understand- 
ing the  Somali  past.  Furthermore,  conventional  wisdom  once  held 
that  Somali  migrations  followed  a  north-to-south  route;  the  reverse 
of  this  now  appears  to  be  nearer  the  truth. 

Increasingly,  evidence  places  the  Somalis  within  a  wide  family 
of  peoples  called  Eastern  Cushites  by  modern  linguists  and  described 
earlier  in  some  instances  as  Hamites.  From  a  broader  cultural- 
linguistic  perspective,  the  Cushite  family  belongs  to  a  vast  stock 
of  languages  and  peoples  considered  Afro-Asiatic.  Afro-Asiatic  lan- 
guages in  turn  include  Cushitic  (principally  Somali,  Oromo,  and 
Afar),  the  Hausa  language  of  Nigeria,  and  the  Semitic  languages 
of  Arabic,  Hebrew,  and  Amharic.  Medieval  Arabs  referred  to  the 
Eastern  Cushites  as  the  Berberi. 

In  addition  to  the  Somalis,  the  Cushites  include  the  largely  no- 
madic Afar  (Danakil),  who  straddle  the  Great  Rift  Valley  between 
Ethiopia  and  Djibouti;  the  Oromo,  who  have  played  such  a  large 
role  in  Ethiopian  history  and  in  the  1990s  constituted  roughly  one- 
half  of  the  Ethiopian  population  and  were  also  numerous  in  northern 
Kenya;  the  Reendille  (Rendilli)  of  Kenya;  and  the  Aweera  (Boni) 
along  the  Lamu  coast  in  Kenya.  The  Somalis  belong  to  a  subbranch 
of  the  Cushites,  the  Omo-Tana  group,  whose  languages  are  almost 
mutually  intelligible.  The  original  home  of  the  Omo-Tana  group 
appears  to  have  been  on  the  Omo  and  Tana  rivers,  in  an  area  ex- 
tending from  Lake  Turkana  in  present-day  northern  Kenya  to  the 
Indian  Ocean  coast. 

The  Somalis  form  a  subgroup  of  the  Omo-Tana  called  Sam.  Hav- 
ing split  from  the  main  stream  of  Cushite  peoples  about  the  first 
half  of  the  first  millennium  B.C.,  the  proto-Sam  appear  to  have 
spread  to  the  grazing  plains  of  northern  Kenya,  where  proto-Sam 
communities  seem  to  have  followed  the  Tana  River  and  to  have 
reached  the  Indian  Ocean  coast  well  before  the  first  century  A.D. 


4 


Historical  Setting 


On  the  coast,  the  proto-Sam  splintered  further;  one  group  (the  Boni) 
remained  on  the  Lamu  Archipelago,  and  the  other  moved  north- 
ward to  populate  southern  Somalia.  There  the  group's  members 
eventually  developed  a  mixed  economy  based  on  farming  and 
animal  husbandry,  a  mode  of  life  still  common  in  southern  Soma- 
lia. Members  of  the  proto-Sam  who  came  to  occupy  the  Somali 
Peninsula  were  known  as  the  so-called  Samaale,  or  Samaal,  a  clear 
reference  to  the  mythical  father  figure  of  the  main  Somali  clan- 
families,  whose  name  gave  rise  to  the  term  Somali. 

The  Samaal  again  moved  farther  north  in  search  of  water  and 
pasturelands.  They  swept  into  the  vast  Ogaden  (Ogaadeen)  plains, 
reaching  the  southern  shore  of  the  Red  Sea  by  the  first  century 
A.D.  German  scholar  Bernd  Heine,  who  wrote  in  the  1970s  on 
early  Somali  history,  observed  that  the  Samaal  had  occupied  the 
entire  Horn  of  Africa  by  approximately  100  A.D. 

Coastal  Towns 

The  expansion  into  the  peninsula  as  far  as  the  Red  Sea  and  In- 
dian Ocean  put  the  Somalis  in  sustained  contact  with  Persian  and 
Arab  immigrants  who  had  established  a  series  of  settlements  along 
the  coast.  From  the  eighth  to  the  tenth  centuries,  Persian  and  Arab 
traders  were  already  engaged  in  lucrative  commerce  from  enclaves 
along  the  Red  Sea  and  Indian  Ocean  as  far  south  as  the  coast  of 
present-day  Kenya.  The  most  significant  enclave  was  the  renowned 
medieval  emporium  of  Saylac  on  the  Gulf  of  Aden.  In  the  sixteenth 
century,  Saylac  became  the  principal  outlet  for  trade  in  coffee,  gold, 
ostrich  feathers,  civet,  and  Ethiopian  slaves  bound  for  the  Middle 
East,  China,  and  India.  Over  time  Saylac  emerged  as  the  center 
of  Muslim  culture  and  learning,  famed  for  its  schools  and  mosques. 
Eventually  it  became  the  capital  of  the  medieval  state  of  Adal,  which 
in  the  sixteenth  century  fought  off  Christian  Ethiopian  domina- 
tion of  the  highlands.  Between  1560  and  1660,  Ethiopian  expedi- 
tions repeatedly  harried  Saylac,  which  sank  into  decay.  Berbera 
replaced  Saylac  as  the  northern  hub  of  Islamic  influence  in  the  Horn 
of  Africa.  By  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century,  Saylac  and  Ber- 
bera had  become  dependencies  of  the  sharifs  of  Mukha  and  in  the 
seventeenth  century  passed  to  the  Ottoman  Turks,  who  exercised 
authority  over  them  through  locally  recruited  Somali  governors. 

The  history  of  commercial  and  intellectual  contact  between  the 
inhabitants  of  the  Arabian  and  Somali  coasts  may  help  explain  the 
Somalis'  connection  with  the  Prophet  Muhammad.  Early  in  the 
Prophet's  ministry,  a  band  of  persecuted  Muslims  had,  with  the 
Prophet's  encouragement,  fled  across  the  Red  Sea  into  the  Horn  of 
Africa.  There  the  Muslims  were  afforded  protection  by  the  Ethiopian 


5 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

negus,  or  king.  Thus,  Islam  may  have  been  introduced  into  the 
Horn  of  Africa  well  before  the  faith  took  root  in  its  Arabian  native 
soil.  The  large-scale  conversion  of  the  Somalis  had  to  await  the 
arrival  in  the  eleventh,  twelfth,  and  thirteenth  centuries  of  Mus- 
lim patriarchs,  in  particular,  the  renowned  Shaykh  Daarood  Jabarti 
and  Shaykh  Isahaaq,  or  Isaaq.  Daarood  married  Doombira  Dir, 
the  daughter  of  a  local  patriarch.  Their  issue  gave  rise  to  the  con- 
federacy that  forms  the  largest  clan-family  (see  Glossary)  in  Somalia, 
the  Daarood.  For  his  part,  Shaykh  Isaaq  founded  the  numerous 
Isaaq  clan-family  in  northern  Somalia.  Along  with  the  clan  (see 
Glossary)  system  of  lineages  (see  Glossary),  the  Arabian  shaykhs 
probably  introduced  into  Somalia  the  patriarchal  ethos  and 
patrilineal  genealogy  typical  of  Semitic  societies,  and  gradually 
replaced  the  indigenous  Somali  social  organization,  which,  like  that 
of  many  other  African  societies,  may  have  been  matrilineal  (see 
The  Segmentary  Social  Order,  ch.  2). 

Islam's  penetration  of  the  Somali  coast,  along  with  the  immigra- 
tion of  Arabian  elements,  inspired  a  second  great  population  move- 
ment reversing  the  flow  of  migration  from  northward  to  southward. 
This  massive  movement,  which  ultimately  took  the  Somalis  to  the 
banks  of  the  Tana  River  and  to  the  fertile  plains  of  Harer  in  Ethio- 
pia, commenced  in  the  thirteenth  century  and  continued  to  the 
nineteenth  century.  At  that  point,  European  interlopers  appeared 
on  the  East  African  scene,  ending  Somali  migration  onto  the  East 
African  plateau. 

Emergence  of  Adal 

In  addition  to  southward  migration,  a  second  factor  in  Somali 
history  from  the  fifteenth  century  onward  was  the  emergence  of 
centralized  state  systems.  The  most  important  of  these  in  medieval 
times  was  Adal,  whose  influence  at  the  height  of  its  power  and 
prosperity  in  the  sixteenth  century  extended  from  Saylac,  the  cap- 
ital, through  the  fertile  valleys  of  the  Jijiga  and  the  Harer  plateau 
to  the  Ethiopian  highlands.  Adal's  fame  derived  not  only  from  the 
prosperity  and  cosmopolitanism  of  its  people,  its  architectural 
sophistication,  graceful  mosques,  and  high  learning,  but  also  from 
its  conflicts  with  the  expansionist  Ethiopians.  For  hundreds  of  years 
before  the  fifteenth  century,  goodwill  had  existed  between  the 
dominant  new  civilization  of  Islam  and  the  Christian  neguses  of 
Ethiopia.  One  tradition  holds  that  Muhammad  blessed  Ethiopia 
and  enjoined  his  disciples  from  ever  conducting  jihad  (holy  war) 
against  the  Christian  kingdom  in  gratitude  for  the  protection  ear- 
ly Muslims  had  received  from  the  Ethiopian  negus.  Whereas  Mus- 
lim armies  rapidly  overran  the  more  powerful  Persian  empire  and 


6 


Shaykh  Abdulaziz  Mosque,  ninth  century,  Mogadishu 

Courtesy  R.W.S.  Hudson 


1 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

much  of  Byzantium  soon  after  the  birth  of  Islam,  there  was  no  ji- 
had against  Christian  Ethiopia  for  centuries.  The  forbidding  Ethio- 
pian terrain  of  deep  gorges,  sharp  escarpments,  and  perpendicular 
massifs  that  rise  more  than  4,500  meters  also  discouraged  the  Mus- 
lims from  attempting  a  campaign  of  conquest  against  so  inaccessi- 
ble a  kingdom. 

Muslim-Christian  relations  soured  during  the  reign  of  the  ag- 
gressive Negus  Yeshaq  (ruled  1414-29).  Forces  of  his  rapidly  ex- 
panding empire  descended  from  the  highlands  to  despoil  Muslim 
settlements  in  the  valley  east  of  the  ancient  city  of  Harer.  Having 
branded  the  Muslims  "enemies  of  the  Lord,"  Yeshaq  invaded  the 
Muslim  kingdom  of  Ifat  in  1415.  He  crushed  the  armies  of  Ifat 
and  put  to  flight  in  the  wastes  along  the  Gulf  of  Tadjoura  (in  present- 
day  Djibouti)  Ifat's  king  Saad  ad  Din.  Yeshaq  followed  Saad  ad 
Din  to  the  island  off  the  coast  of  Saylac  (which  still  bears  his  name), 
where  the  Muslim  king  was  killed.  Yeshaq  compelled  the  Mus- 
lims to  offer  tribute,  and  also  ordered  his  singers  to  compose  a  gloat- 
ing hymn  of  thanksgiving  for  his  victory.  In  the  hymn's  lyrics,  the 
word  Somali  appears  for  the  first  time  in  written  record. 

By  the  sixteenth  century,  the  Muslims  had  recovered  sufficient- 
ly to  break  through  from  the  east  into  the  central  Ethiopian  high- 
lands. Led  by  the  charismatic  Imam  Ahmad  Guray  (1506-43),  the 
Muslims  poured  into  Ethiopia,  using  scorched-earth  tactics  that 
decimated  the  population  of  the  country.  A  Portuguese  expedition 
led  by  Pedro  da  Gama,  a  son  of  Vasco  da  Gama  who  was  looking 
for  the  Prester  John  of  medieval  European  folklore — a  Christian, 
African  monarch  of  vast  dominions — arrived  from  the  sea  and  saved 
Ethiopia.  The  joint  Portuguese-Ethiopian  force  used  cannon  to  rout 
the  Muslims,  whose  imam  died  on  the  battlefield. 

Mogadishu  and  Its  Banaadir  Hinterlands 

In  the  eighteenth  and  nineteenth  centuries,  the  southern  city  of 
Mogadishu  became  Somalia's  most  important  city.  Mogadishu, 
Merca,  and  Baraawe  had  been  major  Somali  coastal  towns  in 
medieval  times.  Their  origins  are  unknown,  but  by  the  fourteenth 
century  travelers  were  mentioning  the  three  towns  more  and  more 
as  important  centers  of  urban  ease  and  learning.  Mogadishu,  the 
largest  and  most  prosperous,  dates  back  at  least  to  the  ninth  cen- 
tury, when  Persian  and  Arabian  immigrants  intermingled  with 
Somali  elements  to  produce  a  distinctive  hybrid  culture.  The  mean- 
ing of  Mogadishu's  name  is  uncertain.  Some  render  it  as  a  Somali 
version  of  the  Arabic  "maqad  shah,"  or  "imperial  seat  of  the 
shah,"  thus  hinting  at  a  Persian  role  in  the  city's  founding.  Others 
consider  it  a  Somali  mispronunciation  of  the  Swahili  "mwyu  wa" 


8 


Historical  Setting 


(last  northern  city),  raising  the  possibility  of  its  being  the  north- 
ernmost of  the  chain  of  Swahili  city-states  on  the  East  African  coast. 
Whatever  its  origin,  Mogadishu  was  at  the  zenith  of  its  prosperity 
when  the  well-known  Arab  traveler  Ibn  Batuta  appeared  on  the 
Somali  coast  in  1331.  Ibn  Batuta  describes  "Maqdashu"  as  "an 
exceedingly  large  city"  with  merchants  who  exported  to  Egypt  and 
elsewhere  the  excellent  cloth  made  in  the  city. 

Through  commerce,  proselytization,  and  political  influence, 
Mogadishu  and  other  coastal  commercial  towns  influenced  the 
Banaadir  hinterlands  (the  rural  areas  outlying  Mogadishu)  in  the 
fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries.  Evidence  of  that  influence  was 
the  increasing  Islamization  of  the  interior  by  sufis  (Muslim  mys- 
tics) who  emigrated  upcountry,  where  they  settled  among  the 
nomads,  married  local  women,  and  brought  Islam  to  temper  the 
random  violence  of  the  inhabitants. 

By  the  end  of  the  sixteenth  century,  the  locus  of  intercommuni- 
cation shifted  upland  to  the  well-watered  region  between  the 
Shabeelle  and  Jubba  rivers.  Evidence  of  the  shift  of  initiative  from 
the  coast  to  the  interior  may  be  found  in  the  rise  between  1550 
and  1650  of  the  Ujuuraan  (also  seen  as  Ajuuraan)  state,  which 
prospered  on  the  lower  reaches  of  the  interriverine  region  under 
the  clan  of  the  Gareen.  The  considerable  power  of  the  Ujuuraan 
state  was  not  diminished  until  the  Portuguese  penetration  of  the 
East  African  coast  in  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries. 
Among  Somali  towns  and  cities,  only  Mogadishu  successfully  resist- 
ed the  repeated  depredations  of  the  Portuguese. 

The  Somali  Peninsula  on  the  Eve  of  Imperial  Partition 

In  1728  the  last  Portuguese  foothold  on  the  East  African  coast 
was  dislodged  from  the  great  Mombasa  castie  of  Fort  Jesus.  From 
then  until  the  European  "scramble"  for  African  colonies  in  the 
1880s,  the  Omanis  exercised  a  shadowy  authority  over  the  Banaadir 
coast.  Omani  rule  over  the  Somalis  consisted  for  the  most  part  of 
a  token  annual  tribute  payment  and  the  presence  of  a  resident  qadi 
(Muslim  judge)  and  a  handful  of  askaris  (territorial  police). 

Whereas  the  Banaadir  coast  was  steadily  drawn  into  the  orbit 
of  Zanzibari  rulers,  the  northern  coast,  starting  in  the  middle  of 
the  eighteenth  century,  passed  under  the  sharifs  of  Mukha,  who 
held  their  feeble  authority  on  behalf  of  the  declining  Ottomans. 
The  Mukha  sharifs,  much  like  the  sultans  of  Zanzibar,  satisfied 
themselves  with  a  token  yearly  tribute  collected  for  them  by  a  na- 
tive governor.  In  1854-55  when  Lieutenant  Richard  Burton  of  the 
British  India  navy  frequented  the  northern  Somali  coast,  he  found 
a  Somali  governor,  Haaji  Shermaarke  Ali  Saalih  of  the  Habar 


9 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Yoonis  clan  of  the  Isaaq  clan-family,  exercising  real  power  over 
Saylac  and  adjacent  regions.  By  the  time  of  Burton's  arrival,  once- 
mighty  Saylac  had  only  a  tenuous  influence  over  its  environs.  The 
city  itself  had  degenerated  into  a  rubble  of  mud  and  wattle  huts, 
its  water  storage  no  longer  working,  its  once-formidable  walls 
decayed  beyond  recognition,  and  its  citizenry  insulted  and  oppressed 
at  will  by  tribesmen  who  periodically  infested  the  city. 

The  Majeerteen  Sultanates 

Farther  east  on  the  Majeerteen  (Bari)  coast,  by  the  middle  of 
the  nineteenth  century  two  tiny  kingdoms  emerged  that  would  play 
a  significant  political  role  on  the  Somali  Peninsula  prior  to  coloni- 
zation. These  were  the  Majeerteen  Sultanate  of  Boqor  Ismaan  Ma- 
hamuud,  and  that  of  his  kinsman  Sultan  Yuusuf  Ali  Keenadiid 
of  Hobyo  (Obbia).  The  Majeerteen  Sultanate  originated  in  the  mid- 
eighteenth  century,  but  only  came  into  its  own  in  the  nineteenth 
century  with  the  reign  of  the  resourceful  Boqor  Ismaan  Mahamuud. 
Ismaan  Mahamuud' s  kingdom  benefited  from  British  subsidies  (for 
protecting  the  British  naval  crews  that  were  shipwrecked  periodi- 
cally on  the  Somali  coast)  and  from  a  liberal  trade  policy  that  facili- 
tated a  flourishing  commerce  in  livestock,  ostrich  feathers,  and  gum 
arabic.  While  acknowledging  a  vague  vassalage  to  the  British,  the 
sultan  kept  his  desert  kingdom  free  until  well  after  1800. 

Boqor  Ismaan  Mahamuud' s  sultanate  was  nearly  destroyed  in 
the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century  by  a  power  struggle  between 
him  and  his  young,  ambitious  cousin,  Keenadiid.  Nearly  five  years 
of  destructive  civil  war  passed  before  Boqor  Ismaan  Mahamuud 
managed  to  stave  off  the  challenge  of  the  young  upstart,  who  was 
finally  driven  into  exile  in  Arabia.  A  decade  later,  in  the  1870s, 
Keenadiid  returned  from  Arabia  with  a  score  of  Hadhrami 
musketeers  and  a  band  of  devoted  lieutenants.  With  their  help, 
he  carved  out  the  small  kingdom  of  Hobyo  after  conquering  the 
local  Hawiye  clans.  Both  kingdoms,  however,  were  gradually  ab- 
sorbed by  the  extension  into  southern  Somalia  of  Italian  colonial 
rule  in  the  last  quarter  of  the  nineteenth  century. 

Imperial  Partition 

The  last  quarter  of  the  nineteenth  century  saw  political  develop- 
ments that  transformed  the  Somali  Peninsula.  During  this  period, 
the  Somalis  became  the  subjects  of  state  systems  under  the  flags 
of  Britain,  France,  Italy,  Egypt,  and  Ethiopia.  The  new  rulers  had 
various  motives  for  colonization.  Britain  sought  to  gain  control  of 
the  northern  Somali  coast  as  a  source  of  mutton  and  other  livestock 
products  for  its  naval  port  of  Aden  in  present-day  Yemen.  As  a 


10 


Historical  Setting 


result  of  the  growing  importance  of  the  Red  Sea  to  British  opera- 
tions in  the  East,  Aden  was  regarded  as  indispensable  to  the  defense 
of  British  India.  British  occupation  of  the  northern  Somali  coast 
began  in  earnest  in  February  1884,  when  Major  A.  Hunter  ar- 
rived at  Berbera  to  negotiate  treaties  of  friendship  and  protection 
with  numerous  Somali  clans.  Hunter  arranged  to  have  British  vice 
consuls  installed  in  Berbera,  Bullaxaar,  and  Saylac. 

The  French,  having  been  evicted  from  Egypt  by  the  British, 
wished  to  establish  a  coaling  station  on  the  Red  Sea  coast  to  strength- 
en naval  links  with  their  Indochina  colonies.  The  French  were  also 
eager  to  bisect  Britain's  vaunted  Cairo  to  Cape  Town  zone  of  in- 
fluence with  an  east  to  west  expansion  across  Africa.  France  ex- 
tended its  foothold  on  the  Afar  coast  partly  to  counter  the  high  duties 
that  the  British  authorities  imposed  on  French  goods  in  Obock. 
A  French  protectorate  was  proclaimed  under  the  governorship  of 
Leonce  Lagarde,  who  played  a  prominent  role  in  extending  French 
influence  into  the  Horn  of  Africa. 

Recentiy  unified,  Italy  was  inexperienced  at  imperial  power  plays. 
It  was  therefore  content  to  stake  out  a  territory  whenever  it  could 
do  so  without  confronting  another  colonial  power.  In  southern 
Somalia,  better  known  as  the  Banaadir  coast,  Italy  was  the  main 
colonizer,  but  the  extension  of  Italian  influence  was  painstakingly 
slow  owing  to  parliamentary  lack  of  enthusiasm  for  overseas  terri- 
tory. Italy  acquired  its  first  possession  in  southern  Somalia  in  1888 
when  the  Sultan  of  Hobyo,  Keenadiid,  agreed  to  Italian  "protec- 
tion." In  the  same  year,  Vincenzo  Filonardi,  Italy's  architect  of 
imperialism  in  southern  Somalia,  demanded  a  similar  arrangement 
from  the  Majeerteen  Sultanate  of  Ismaan  Mahamuud.  In  1889  both 
sultans,  suspicious  of  each  other,  consented  to  place  their  lands  un- 
der Italian  protection.  Italy  then  notified  the  signatory  powers  of 
the  Berlin  West  Africa  Conference  of  1884-85  of  its  southeastern 
Somali  protectorate  (see  fig.  2).  Later,  Italy  seized  the  Banaadir 
coast  proper,  which  had  long  been  under  the  tenuous  authority 
of  the  Zanzibaris,  to  form  the  colony  of  Italian  Somaliland. 
Chisimayu  Region,  which  passed  to  the  British  as  a  result  of  their 
protectorate  over  the  Zanzibaris,  was  ceded  to  Italy  in  1925  to  com- 
plete Italian  tenure  over  southern  Somalia. 

The  catalyst  for  imperial  tenure  over  Somali  territory  was  Egypt 
under  its  ambitious  ruler,  Khedive  Ismail.  In  the  last  quarter  of 
the  nineteenth  century,  this  Ottoman  vassal  sought  to  carve  out 
for  Egypt  a  swath  of  territory  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  However,  the 
Sudanese  anti-Egyptian  Mahdist  revolt  that  broke  out  in  1884 
shattered  the  khedive's  plan  for  imperial  aggrandizement.  The 


11 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  2.  Colonial  Boundaries,  1891-1960 

Egyptians  needed  British  help  to  evacuate  their  troops  marooned 
in  Sudan  and  on  the  Somali  coast. 

What  the  European  colonialists  failed  to  foresee  was  that  the  big- 
gest threat  to  their  imperial  ambitions  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  would 
come  from  an  emerging  regional  power,  the  Ethiopia  of  Emperor 
Menelik  II.  Emperor  Menelik  II  not  only  managed  to  defend  Ethio- 
pia against  European  encroachment,  but  also  succeeded  in  com- 
peting with  the  Europeans  for  the  Somali-inhabited  territories  that 
he  claimed  as  part  of  Ethiopia.  Between  1887  and  1897,  Menelik 
II  successfully  extended  Ethiopian  rule  over  the  long  independent 


12 


Historical  Setting 


Muslim  Emirate  of  Harer  and  over  western  Somalia  (better  known 
as  the  Ogaden).  Thus,  by  the  turn  of  the  century,  the  Somali  Penin- 
sula, one  of  the  most  culturally  homogeneous  regions  of  Africa, 
was  divided  into  British  Somaliland,  French  Somaliland,  Italian 
Somaliland,  Ethiopian  Somaliland  (the  Ogaden),  and  what  came 
to  be  called  the  Northern  Frontier  District  (NFD)  of  Kenya. 

Although  the  officials  of  the  three  European  powers  often  lacked 
funds,  they  nevertheless  managed  to  establish  the  rudimentary  or- 
gans of  colonial  administration.  Moreover,  because  they  controlled 
the  port  outlets,  they  could  levy  taxes  on  livestock  to  obtain  the 
necessary  funds  to  administer  their  respective  Somali  territories. 
In  contrast,  Ethiopia  was  largely  a  feudal  state  with  a  subsistence 
economy  that  required  its  army  of  occupation  to  live  off  the  land. 
Thus,  Ethiopian  armies  repeatedly  despoiled  the  Ogaden  in  the 
last  two  decades  of  the  nineteenth  century. 

Mahammad  Abdille  Hasan's  Dervish  Resistance  to  Colonial 
Occupation 

Given  the  frequency  and  virulence  of  the  Ethiopian  raids,  it  was 
natural  that  the  first  pan-Somali  or  Greater  Somalia  effort  against 
colonial  occupation,  and  for  unification  of  all  areas  populated  by 
Somalis  into  one  country,  should  have  been  directed  at  Ethiopi- 
ans rather  than  at  the  Europeans;  the  effort  was  spearheaded  by 
the  Somali  dervish  resistance  movement.  The  dervishes  followed 
Mahammad  Abdille  Hasan  of  the  puritanical  Salihiyah  tariqa  (re- 
ligious order  or  brotherhood).  His  ability  as  an  orator  and  a  poet 
(much- valued  skills  in  Somali  society)  won  him  many  disciples,  es- 
pecially among  his  own  Dulbahante  and  Ogaden  clans  (both  of  the 
Daarood  clan-family).  The  British  dismissed  Hasan  as  a  religious 
fanatic,  calling  him  the  "Mad  Mullah."  They  underestimated  his 
following,  however,  because  from  1899  to  1920,  the  dervishes  con- 
ducted a  war  of  resistance  against  the  Ethiopians  and  British,  a 
struggle  that  devastated  the  Somali  Peninsula  and  resulted  in  the 
death  of  an  estimated  one-third  of  northern  Somalia's  population 
and  the  near  destruction  of  its  economy.  One  of  the  longest  and 
bloodiest  conflicts  in  the  annals  of  sub-Saharan  resistance  to  alien 
encroachment,  the  dervish  uprising  was  not  quelled  until  1920  with 
the  death  of  Hasan,  who  became  a  hero  of  Somali  nationalism. 
Deploying  a  Royal  Air  Force  squadron  recently  returned  from  ac- 
tion in  combat  in  World  War  I,  the  British  delivered  the  decisive 
blow  with  a  devastating  aerial  bombardment  of  the  dervish  capital 
at  Taleex  in  northern  Somalia. 


13 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Consolidation  of  Colonial  Rule 

The  two  decades  between  1900  and  1920  were  a  period  of  colonial 
consolidation.  However,  of  the  colonial  powers  that  had  divided 
the  Somalis,  only  Italy  developed  a  comprehensive  administrative 
plan  for  its  colony.  The  Italians  intended  to  plant  a  colony  of  set- 
tlers and  commercial  entrepreneurs  in  the  region  between  the 
Shabeelle  and  Jubba  rivers  in  southern  Somalia.  The  motivation 
was  threefold:  to  " relieve  population  pressure  at  home,"  to  offer 
the  "civilizing  Roman  mission"  to  the  Somalis,  and  to  increase 
Italian  prestige  through  overseas  colonization.  Initiated  by  Governor 
Carletti  (1906-10),  Italy's  colonial  program  received  further  impetus 
by  the  introduction  of  fascist  ideology  and  economic  planning  in 
the  1920s,  particularly  during  the  administration  of  Governor 
Cesare  Maria  dei  Vecchi  di  Val  Cismon.  Large-scale  development 
projects  were  launched,  including  a  system  of  plantations  on  which 
fruits,  primarily  bananas,  and  sugarcane  were  grown.  Sugarcane 
fields  in  Giohar  and  numerous  banana  plantations  around  the  town 
of  Jannaale  on  the  Shabeelle  River,  and  at  the  southern  mouth  of 
the  Jubba  River  near  Chisimayu,  helped  transform  southern  Soma- 
lia's economy. 

In  contrast  to  the  Italian  colony,  British  Somaliland  stayed  a 
neglected  backwater.  Daunted  by  the  diversion  of  substantial  de- 
velopment funds  to  the  suppression  of  the  dervish  insurrection  and 
by  the  "wild"  character  of  the  anarchic  Somali  pastoralists,  Brit- 
ain used  its  colony  as  little  more  than  a  supplier  of  meat  products 
to  Aden.  This  policy  had  a  tragic  effect  on  the  future  unity  and 
stability  of  independent  Somalia.  When  the  two  former  colonies 
merged  to  form  the  Somali  Republic  in  1960,  the  north  lagged  far 
behind  the  south  in  economic  infrastructure  and  skilled  labor.  As 
a  result,  southerners  gradually  came  to  dominate  the  new  state's 
economic  and  political  life — a  hegemony  that  bred  a  sense  of  betray- 
al and  bitterness  among  northerners. 

Somalia  During  World  War  II 

Italy's  1935  attack  on  Ethiopia  led  to  a  temporary  Somali  re- 
unification. After  Italian  premier  Benito  Mussolini's  armies 
marched  into  Ethiopia  and  toppled  Emperor  Haile  Selassie,  the 
Italians  seized  British  Somaliland.  During  their  occupation 
(1940-41),  the  Italians  reamalgamated  the  Ogaden  with  southern 
and  northern  Somalilands,  uniting  for  the  first  time  in  forty  years 
all  the  Somali  clans  that  had  been  arbitrarily  separated  by  the  Anglo- 
Italo-Ethiopian  boundaries.  The  elimination  of  these  artificial 
boundaries  and  the  unification  of  the  Somali  Peninsula  enabled 


14 


Italian  triumphal  arch,  Mogadishu 
Courtesy  R.W.S.  Hudson 


the  Italians  to  set  prices  and  impose  taxes  and  to  issue  a  com- 
mon currency  for  the  entire  area.  These  actions  helped  move  the 
Somali  economy  from  traditional  exchange  in  kind  to  a  monetized 
system. 

Thousands  of  Italians,  either  veterans  of  the  Ethiopian  conquest 
or  new  emigrants,  poured  into  Somalia,  especially  into  the  inter- 
riverine  region.  Although  colonization  was  designed  to  entrench 
the  European  conquerors,  many  Somalis  did  not  fare  badly  under 
Italian  rule  during  this  period.  Some,  such  as  the  Haaji  Diiriye 
and  Yuusuf  Igaal  families,  accumulated  considerable  fortunes.  One 
indicator  of  the  Somali  sense  of  relative  well-being  may  have  been 
the  absence  of  any  major  anti-Italian  revolt  during  Italy's  occupation. 

At  the  onset  of  World  War  II,  Italian  holdings  in  East  Africa 
included  southern  Somalia,  Ethiopia,  and  Eritrea.  Italy  subsequent- 
ly invaded  northern  Somalia  and  ejected  the  British  from  the  Horn 
of  Africa.  The  Italian  victory  turned  out  to  be  short-lived,  however. 
In  March  1941 ,  the  British  counterattacked  and  reoccupied  northern 
Somalia,  from  which  they  launched  their  lightning  campaign  to 
retake  the  whole  region  from  Italy  and  restore  Emperor  Haile  Selas- 
sie to  his  throne.  The  British  then  placed  southern  Somalia  and 
the  Ogaden  under  a  military  administration. 


15 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

British  Military  Administration 

Following  Italy's  defeat,  the  British  established  military  adminis- 
trations in  what  had  been  British  Somaliland,  Italian  Somaliland, 
and  Ethiopian  Somaliland.  Thus,  all  Somali-inhabited  territories — 
with  the  exception  of  French  Somaliland  and  Kenya's  Northern 
Frontier  District  (NFD) — were  for  the  second  time  brought  under 
a  single  tenure.  No  integrated  administrative  structure  for  the  Soma- 
li areas  was  established,  however,  and  under  intense  pressure  from 
Haile  Selassie,  Britain  agreed  to  return  the  Ogaden  to  Ethiopian 
jurisdiction.  A  military  governor,  aided  by  a  handful  of  military 
officers,  took  over  the  work  of  the  colonial  civil  service.  In  what 
had  been  Italian  Somaliland,  a  similar  military  administration, 
headed  by  a  military  commander,  was  established. 

The  principal  concern  of  the  British  administration  during  World 
War  II  and  subsequently  was  to  reestablish  order.  Accordingly, 
the  Somaliland  Camel  Corps  (local  levies  raised  during  the  der- 
vish disturbances)  was  reorganized  and  later  disbanded.  This  ef- 
fort resulted  in  the  creation  of  five  battalions  known  as  the 
Somaliland  Scouts  (ilalos),  which  absorbed  former  irregular  units 
(see  The  Warrior  Tradition  and  Development  of  a  Modern  Army, 
ch.  5).  The  British  disbanded  the  Italian  security  units  in  the  south 
and  raised  a  new  army,  the  Somalia  Gendarmerie,  commanded 
by  British  officers,  to  police  the  occupied  territory. 

Originally,  many  of  the  rank  and  file  of  the  gendarmerie  were 
askaris  from  Kenya  and  Uganda  who  had  served  under  British 
officers.  The  gendarmerie  was  gradually  transformed  into  an  in- 
digenous force  through  the  infusion  of  local  recruits  who  were 
trained  in  a  new  police  academy  created  by  the  British  military 
administration.  Somalia  was  full  of  Italian  military  stragglers,  so 
the  security  services  of  the  northern  and  southern  protectorates  col- 
laborated in  rounding  them  up.  The  greater  security  challenge  for 
the  British  during  World  War  II  and  immediately  after  was  to  dis- 
arm the  Somalis  who  had  taken  advantage  of  the  windfall  in  arms 
brought  about  by  the  war.  Also,  Ethiopia  had  organized  Somali 
bandits  to  infest  the  British  side  so  as  to  discourage  continued  British 
occupation  of  the  Ogaden.  Ethiopia  also  armed  clan  militias  and 
encouraged  them  to  cross  into  the  British  zone  and  cause  bloodshed. 

Despite  its  distracting  security  problems,  the  British  military 
forces  that  administered  the  two  Somali  protectorates  from  1941 
to  1949  effected  greater  social  and  political  changes  than  had  their 
predecessors.  Britain's  wartime  requirement  that  the  protectorate 
be  self-supporting  was  modified  after  1945,  and  the  appropriation 
of  new  funds  for  the  north  created  a  burst  of  development.  To  signal 


16 


Historical  Setting 


the  start  of  a  new  policy  of  increased  attention  to  control  of  the 
interior,  the  capital  was  transferred  from  Berbera,  a  hot  coastal 
town,  to  Hargeysa,  whose  location  on  the  inland  plateau  offered 
the  incidental  benefit  of  a  more  hospitable  climate.  Although  the 
civil  service  remained  inadequate  to  staff  the  expanding  adminis- 
tration, efforts  were  made  to  establish  health  and  veterinary  ser- 
vices, to  improve  agriculture  in  the  Gabiley-Boorama  agricultural 
corridor  northwest  of  Hargeysa,  to  increase  the  water  supply  to 
pastoralists  by  digging  more  bore  wells,  and  to  introduce  secular 
elementary  schools  where  previously  only  Quranic  schools  had  ex- 
isted. The  judiciary  was  reorganized  as  a  dual  court  system  com- 
bining elements  from  the  Somali  heer  (traditional  jurisprudence), 
Islamic  sharia  or  religious  law,  and  British  common  law. 

In  Italian  Somaliland,  the  British  improved  working  conditions 
for  Somali  agricultural  laborers,  doubled  the  size  of  the  elemen- 
tary school  system,  and  allowed  Somalis  to  staff  the  lower  stratum 
of  the  civil  service  and  gendarmerie.  Additionally,  military  adminis- 
trators opened  the  political  process  for  Somalis,  replacing  Italian- 
appointed  chiefs  with  clan-elected  bodies,  as  well  as  district  and 
regional  councils  whose  purpose  was  to  advise  the  military  adminis- 
tration. 

Military  officials  could  not  govern  without  the  Italian  civilians 
who  constituted  the  experienced  civil  service.  The  British  military 
also  recognized  that  Italian  technocrats  would  be  needed  to  keep 
the  economy  going.  Only  Italians  deemed  to  be  security  risks  were 
interned  or  excluded  from  the  new  system.  In  early  1943,  Italians 
were  permitted  to  organize  political  associations.  A  host  of  Italian 
organizations  of  varying  ideologies  sprang  up  to  challenge  British 
rule,  to  compete  politically  with  Somalis  and  Arabs  (the  latter  be- 
ing politically  significant  only  in  the  urban  areas,  particularly  the 
towns  of  Mogadishu,  Merca,  and  Baraawe),  and  to  agitate,  some- 
times violently,  for  the  return  of  the  colony  to  Italian  rule.  Faced 
with  growing  Italian  political  pressure,  inimical  to  continued  Brit- 
ish tenure  and  to  Somali  aspirations  for  independence,  the  Soma- 
lis and  the  British  came  to  see  each  other  as  allies.  The  situation 
prompted  British  colonial  officials  to  encourage  the  Somalis  to  or- 
ganize politically;  the  result  was  the  first  modern  Somali  political 
party,  the  Somali  Youth  Club  (SYC),  established  in  Mogadishu 
in  1943. 

To  empower  the  new  party,  the  British  allowed  the  better  edu- 
cated police  and  civil  servants  to  join  it,  thus  relaxing  Britain's  tradi- 
tional policy  of  separating  the  civil  service  from  leadership,  if  not 
membership,  in  political  parties.  The  SYC  expanded  rapidly  and 
boasted  25,000  card-carrying  members  by  1946.  In  1947  it  renamed 


17 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

itself  the  Somali  Youth  League  (SYL)  and  began  to  open  offices 
not  only  in  the  two  British-run  Somalilands  but  also  in  Ethiopia's 
Ogaden  and  in  the  NFD  of  Kenya.  The  SYL's  stated  objectives 
were  to  unify  all  Somali  territories,  including  the  NFD  and  the 
Ogaden;  to  create  opportunities  for  universal  modern  education; 
to  develop  the  Somali  language  by  a  standard  national  orthogra- 
phy; to  safeguard  Somali  interests;  and  to  oppose  the  restoration 
of  Italian  rule.  SYL  policy  banned  clannishness  so  that  the  thir- 
teen founding  members,  although  representing  four  of  Somalia's 
six  major  clans,  refused  to  disclose  their  ethnic  identities.  A  sec- 
ond political  body  sprang  up,  originally  calling  itself  the  Patriotic 
Benefit  Union  but  later  renaming  itself  the  Hisbia  Digil  Mirifle 
(HDM),  representing  the  two  interriverine  clans  of  Digil  and  Miri- 
fle. The  HDM  allegedly  cooperated  with  the  Italians  and  accept- 
ed significant  Italian  financial  backing  in  its  struggle  against  the 
SYL.  Although  the  SYL  enjoyed  considerable  popular  support  from 
northerners,  the  principal  parties  in  British  Somaliland  were  the 
Somali  National  League  (SNL),  mainly  associated  with  the  Isaaq 
clan-family,  and  the  United  Somali  Party  (USP),  which  had  the 
support  of  the  Dir  (Gadabursi  and  Iise)  and  Daarood  (Dulbahante 
and  Warsangali)  clan-families. 

Although  southern  Somalia  legally  was  an  Italian  colony,  in  1945 
the  Potsdam  Conference  decided  not  to  return  to  Italy  the  African 
territory  it  had  seized  during  the  war.  The  disposition  of  Somalia 
therefore  fell  to  the  Allied  Council  of  Foreign  Ministers,  which  as- 
signed a  four-power  commission  consisting  of  Britain,  France,  the 
Soviet  Union,  and  the  United  States  to  decide  Somalia's  future. 
The  British  suggested  that  all  the  Somalis  should  be  placed  under 
a  single  administration,  preferably  British,  but  the  other  powers 
accused  Britain  of  imperial  machinations. 

In  January  1948,  commission  representatives  arrived  in 
Mogadishu  to  learn  the  aspirations  of  the  Somalis.  The  SYL  re- 
quested and  obtained  permission  from  the  military  administration 
to  organize  a  massive  demonstration  to  show  the  commission 
delegates  the  strength  of  popular  demand  for  independence.  When 
the  SYL  held  its  rally,  a  counter  demonstration  led  by  Italian  ele- 
ments came  out  to  voice  pro-Italian  sentiment  and  to  attempt  to 
discredit  the  SYL  before  the  commission.  A  riot  erupted  in  which 
fifty-one  Italians  and  twenty-four  Somalis  were  killed.  Despite  the 
confusion,  the  commission  proceeded  with  its  hearings  and  seemed 
favorably  impressed  by  the  proposal  the  SYL  presented:  to  reunite 
all  Somalis  and  to  place  Somalia  under  a  ten-year  trusteeship  over- 
seen by  an  international  body  that  would  lead  the  country  to  in- 
dependence. The  commission  heard  two  other  plans.  One  was 


18 


Historical  Setting 


offered  by  the  HDM,  which  departed  from  its,  pro-Italian  stance 
to  present  an  agenda  similar  to  that  of  the  SYL,  but  which  includ- 
ed a  request  that  the  trusteeship  period  last  thirty  years.  The  other 
was  put  forward  by  a  combination  of  Italian  and  Somali  groups 
petitioning  for  the  return  of  Italian  rule. 

The  commission  recommended  a  plan  similar  to  that  of  the  SYL, 
but  the  Allied  Council  of  Foreign  Ministers,  under  the  influence 
of  conflicting  diplomatic  interests,  failed  to  reach  consensus  on  the 
way  to  guide  the  country  to  independence.  France  favored  the  colo- 
ny's return  to  Italy;  Britain  favored  a  formula  much  like  that  of 
the  SYL,  but  the  British  plan  was  thwarted  by  the  United  States 
and  the  Soviet  Union,  which  accused  Britain  of  seeking  imperial 
gains  at  the  expense  of  Ethiopian  and  Italian  interests.  Britain  was 
unwilling  to  quarrel  with  its  erstwhile  allies  over  Somali  well-being 
and  the  SYL  plan  was  withdrawn.  Meanwhile,  Ethiopia  strongly 
pressured  Britain  through  the  United  States,  which  was  anxious 
to  accommodate  Emperor  Haile  Selassie  in  return  for  his  promise 
to  offer  the  United  States  a  military  base  in  Ethiopia.  For  its  part, 
the  Soviet  Union  preferred  to  reinstate  Italian  tenure,  mainly  be- 
cause of  the  growing  communist  influence  on  Italian  domestic  po- 
litics. 

Under  United  States  and  Soviet  prodding,  Britain  returned  the 
Ogaden  to  Ethiopia  in  1948  over  massive  Somali  protests.  The  ac- 
tion shattered  Somali  nationalist  aspirations  for  Greater  Somalia, 
but  the  shock  was  softened  by  the  payment  of  considerable  war 
reparations — or  "bribes,"  as  the  Somalis  characterized  them — to 
Ogaden  clan  chiefs.  In  1949  many  grazing  areas  in  the  hinterlands 
also  were  returned  to  Ethiopia,  but  Britain  gained  Ethiopian  per- 
mission to  station  British  liaison  officers  in  the  Reserved  Areas, 
areas  frequented  by  British-protected  Somali  clans.  The  liaison 
officers  moved  about  with  the  British-protected  clans  that  frequented 
the  Haud  pasturelands  for  six  months  of  the  year.  The  liaison 
officers  protected  the  pastoralists  from  Ethiopian  "tax  collectors" — 
armed  bands  that  Ethiopia  frequently  sent  to  the  Ogaden,  both 
to  demonstrate  its  sovereignty  and  to  defray  administrative  costs 
by  seizing  Somali  livestock. 

Meanwhile,  because  of  disagreements  among  commission  mem- 
bers over  the  disposition  of  Somalia,  the  Allied  Council  of  Foreign 
Ministers  referred  the  matter  to  the  United  Nations  (UN)  Gener- 
al Assembly.  In  November  1949,  the  General  Assembly  voted  to 
make  southern  Somalia  a  trust  territory  to  be  placed  under  Italian 
control  for  ten  years,  following  which  it  would  become  indepen- 
dent. The  General  Assembly  stipulated  that  under  no  circumstance 
should  Italian  rule  over  the  colony  extend  beyond  1960.  The  General 


19 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Assembly  seems  to  have  been  persuaded  by  the  argument  that  Italy, 
because  of  its  experience  and  economic  interests,  was  best  suited 
to  administer  southern  Somalia.  Thus,  the  SYL's  vehement  opposi- 
tion to  the  reimposition  of  Italian  rule  fell  on  deaf  ears  at  the  UN. 

Trusteeship  and  Protectorate:  The  Road  to  Independence 

The  conditional  return  of  Italian  administration  to  southern 
Somalia  gave  the  new  trust  territory  several  unique  advantages  com- 
pared with  other  African  colonies.  To  the  extent  that  Italy  held 
the  territory  by  UN  mandate,  the  trusteeship  provisions  gave  the 
Somalis  the  opportunity  to  gain  experience  in  political  education 
and  self-government.  These  were  advantages  that  British  Somali- 
land,  which  was  to  be  incorporated  into  the  new  Somali  state,  did 
not  have.  Although  in  the  1950s  British  colonial  officials  attempted, 
through  various  development  efforts,  to  make  up  for  past  neglect, 
the  protectorate  stagnated.  The  disparity  between  the  two  territo- 
ries in  economic  development  and  political  experience  would  cause 
serious  difficulties  when  it  came  time  to  integrate  the  two  parts. 

The  UN  agreement  established  the  Italian  Trusteeship  Adminis- 
tration (Amministrazione  Fiduciaria  Italiana  della  Somalia — AFIS) 
to  prepare  southern  Somalia  for  independence  over  a  ten-year  period. 
Under  the  agreement,  a  UN  Advisory  Council  based  in  Mogadishu 
observed  the  AFIS  and  reported  its  progress  to  the  UN  Trustee- 
ship Council.  The  agreement  required  the  new  administration  to 
develop  the  colony's  political  institutions,  to  expand  the  educational 
system,  to  improve  the  economic  infrastructure,  and  to  give  the 
indigenous  people  freedom  of  the  press  and  the  right  to  dissent. 
These  political  and  civil  guarantees  did  not  make  for  smooth  Italo- 
Somali  relations.  Seen  by  the  Italians  as  the  source  of  nationalist 
sentiment  and  activity,  the  SYL  distrusted  the  new  administration, 
suspecting  it  of  having  a  hidden  colonial  agenda.  SYL  fears  were 
exacerbated  when  the  AFIS,  soon  after  taking  control,  proceeded 
to  jail  some  SYL  members  and  to  fire  others  from  their  civil  ser- 
vice posts.  The  SYL  responded  with  protests,  civil  disobedience, 
and  representations  to  the  UN  Advisory  Council.  The  council  in- 
tervened to  arbitrate  the  disputes  and  to  encourage  the  two  sides 
to  collaborate.  The  conflict  simmered  for  three  years  (1950-53)  until 
new  economic  and  political  initiatives  provided  a  channel  for  the 
energies  of  Somali  nationalists. 

The  centerpiece  of  the  initiatives  was  a  series  of  seven-year  de- 
velopment programs  introduced  in  1954.  Drawing  on  development 
blueprints  provided  by  the  United  States  Agency  for  Internation- 
al Cooperation  (AIC;  later  the  United  States  Agency  for  Interna- 
tional Development — AID)  and  the  United  Nations  Development 


20 


Historical  Setting 


Programme,  the  Italian  administration  initiated  plans  to  stimulate 
local  agriculture,  to  improve  the  infrastructure,  and  to  expand 
educational  facilities.  Exports,  responding  to  these  stimuli,  trebled 
from  1954  to  1960.  Despite  these  improvements,  an  acute  balance 
of  payments  deficit  persisted,  and  the  administration  had  to  rely 
on  foreign  grants  and  Italian  subsidies  to  balance  the  budget. 

Development  efforts  in  education  were  more  successful.  Between 
1952  and  1957,  student  enrollment  at  the  elementary  and  second- 
ary levels  doubled.  In  1957  there  were  2,000  students  receiving 
secondary,  technical,  and  university  education  in  Italian  Somaliland 
and  through  scholarship  programs  in  China,  Egypt,  and  Italy. 
Another  program  offered  night-school  adult  literacy  instruction  and 
provided  further  training  to  civil  servants.  However,  these  pro- 
grams were  severely  handicapped  by  the  absence  of  a  standard  script 
and  a  written  national  language.  Arabic,  Italian,  and  English  served 
as  media  of  instruction  in  the  various  schools;  this  linguistic  plurality 
created  a  tower  of  Babel. 

Progress  was  made  throughout  the  1950s  in  fostering  political 
institutions.  In  accordance  with  a  UN  resolution,  in  1950  the 
Italians  had  established  in  Italian  Somaliland  an  advisory  body 
known  as  the  Territorial  Council,  which  took  an  active  part  in  dis- 
cussions of  proposed  AFIS  legislation.  Composed  of  thirty-five 
members,  the  council  came  to  be  dominated  by  representatives  of 
political  parties  such  as  the  SYL  and  HDM.  Acting  as  a  nascent 
parliament,  the  Territorial  Council  gained  experience  not  only  in 
procedural  matters  but  also  in  legislative  debates  on  the  political, 
economic,  and  social  problems  that  would  face  future  Somali 
governments.  For  its  part,  the  AFIS,  by  working  closely  with  the 
council,  won  legitimacy  in  Somali  eyes. 

There  were  other  forums,  besides  the  Territorial  Council,  in 
which  Somalis  gained  executive  and  legislative  experience.  These 
included  the  forty-eight-member  Municipal  Council  introduced  in 
1950,  whose  members  dealt  with  urban  planning,  public  services, 
and,  after  1956,  fiscal  and  budgetary  matters.  Rural  councils  han- 
dled tribal  and  local  problems  such  as  conflicts  over  grazing  grounds 
and  access  to  water  and  pasturelands.  However,  the  effectiveness 
of  the  rural  councils  was  undermined  by  the  wanderings  of  the 
nomads  as  they  searched  for  water  wells  and  pastures,  a  circum- 
stance that  made  stable  political  organizations  difficult  to  sustain. 
Thus,  the  UN  Advisory  Council's  plans  to  use  the  rural  councils 
as  bridges  to  development  turned  out  to  be  untenable,  a  situation 
that  enabled  AFIS-appointed  district  commissioners  to  become  the 
focus  of  power  and  political  action. 


21 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Territory-wide  elections  were  first  held  in  southern  Somalia  in 
1956.  Although  ten  parties  fielded  candidates  to  select  representa- 
tives to  a  new  seventy- seat  Legislative  Assembly  that  replaced  the 
Territorial  Council,  only  the  SYL  (which  won  forty- three  seats) 
and  HDM  (which  won  thirteen  seats)  gained  significant  percen- 
tages of  the  sixty  seats  that  the  Somalis  contested.  The  remaining 
ten  seats  were  reserved  for  Indians,  Arabs,  and  other  non-Somalis. 
Abdullaahi  Iise,  leader  of  the  SYL  in  the  assembly,  became  the 
first  prime  minister  of  a  government  composed  of  five  ministerial 
posts,  all  held  by  Somalis.  The  new  assembly  assumed  responsi- 
bility for  domestic  affairs,  although  the  governor  as  representative 
of  the  Italian  government  and  as  the  most  senior  official  of  the  AFIS 
retained  the  "power  of  absolute  veto"  as  well  as  the  authority  to 
rule  by  emergency  decree  should  the  need  arise.  Moreover,  until 
1958  the  AFIS  continued  to  control  important  areas  such  as  for- 
eign relations,  external  finance,  defense,  and  public  order. 

The  term  of  office  of  the  Iise  government  was  four  years 
(1956-60) — a  trial  period  that  enabled  the  nascent  southern  Somali 
administration  to  shape  the  terms  under  which  it  was  to  gain  its 
independence.  This  period  was  the  most  stable  in  modern  Somali 
politics.  The  government's  outlook  was  modernist  and,  once  the 
Somalis  become  convinced  that  Italy  would  not  attempt  to  post- 
pone independence,  pro-Italian.  The  franchise  was  extended  to 
women  in  1958,  and  nationalization  at  all  levels  of  administration 
from  district  commissioner  to  provincial  governor  proceeded  apace. 
Attempts  were  made  to  suppress  clannishness  and  to  raise  the  sta- 
tus of  women  and  of  groups  holding  lowly  occupations.  The  fu- 
ture promised  hope:  the  moral  support  of  global  anticolonial  forces, 
the  active  backing  of  the  UN,  and  the  goodwill  of  the  Western  pow- 
ers, including  Italy. 

The  southern  Somali  government's  principal  tasks  were  to  in- 
crease economic  self-sufficiency  and  to  find  external  sources  of  finan- 
cial assistance  that  would  replace  the  support  Italy  would  withdraw 
after  independence.  Another  major  concern  was  to  frame  the  con- 
stitution that  would  take  effect  once  Somalia  became  independent. 
The  writers  of  this  document  faced  two  sensitive  issues:  the  form 
of  government — federalist  or  unitary — the  new  nation  would  adopt, 
and  nationalist  aspirations  concerning  Greater  Somalia.  The  first 
issue  was  of  great  interest  to  the  HDM,  whose  supporters  mainly 
were  cultivators  from  the  well-watered  region  between  the  Shabeelle 
and  Jubba  rivers  and  who  represented  about  20  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation. The  HDM  wanted  a  federal  form  of  government.  This 
preference  derived  from  concerns  about  dominance  by  the  SYL, 
which  was  supported  by  pastoral  clans  that  accounted  for  75  percent 


22 


Historical  Setting 


of  the  population  (see  Samaal,  ch.  2).  Not  surprisingly,  the  SYL 
advocated  a  unitary  form  of  government,  arguing  that  federalism 
would  encourage  clannishness  and  social  strife.  In  the  end,  politi- 
cal and  numerical  strength  enabled  the  SYL  to  prevail. 

The  delicate  issue  of  Greater  Somalia,  whose  re-creation  would 
entail  the  detachment  from  Ethiopia,  Djibouti,  and  Kenya  of 
Somali-inhabited  areas,  presented  Somali  leaders  with  a  dilemma: 
they  wanted  peace  with  their  neighbors,  but  making  claims  on  their 
territory  was  certain  to  provoke  hostility.  Led  by  Haaji  Maham- 
mad  Husseen,  the  SYL  radical  wing  wanted  to  include  in  the  con- 
stitution an  article  calling  for  the  unification  of  the  Somali  nation 
"by  all  means  necessary."  In  the  end,  the  moderate  majority 
prevailed  in  modifying  the  wording  to  demand  "reunification  of 
the  dismembered  nation  by  peaceful  means." 

During  the  four-year  transition  to  independence,  conflicts  over 
unresolved  economic  and  political  issues  took  the  form  of  intraparty 
squabbling  within  the  dominant  SYL  rather  than  interparty  com- 
petition, as  Daarood  and  Hawiye  party  stalwarts  banded  into  fac- 
tions. The  Daarood  accused  Iise's  government  of  being  under 
Italian  influence  and  the  Hawiye  countered  with  a  charge  of  clan- 
nishness in  the  Daarood  ranks.  Husseen 's  radical  faction  continued 
to  charge  Iise's  government  with  being  too  close  to  the  West,  and 
to  Italy  in  particular,  and  of  doing  little  to  realize  the  national  goal 
of  reconstituting  Greater  Somalia.  Despite  his  rift  with  prime 
minister  Iise,  Husseen,  who  had  headed  the  party  in  the  early  years, 
was  again  elected  SYL  president  in  July  1957.  But  his  agenda  of 
looser  ties  with  the  West  and  closer  relations  with  the  Arab  world 
clashed  with  the  policies  of  Iise  and  of  Aadan  Abdullah  Usmaan, 
the  parliamentary  leader  who  would  become  the  first  president  of 
independent  Somalia.  Husseen  inveighed  against  "reactionaries 
in  government,"  a  thinly  veiled  reference  to  Iise  and  Usmaan.  The 
latter  two  responded  by  expelling  Husseen  and  his  supporters  from 
the  SYL.  Having  lost  the  power  struggle,  Husseen  created  a  mili- 
tant new  party,  the  Greater  Somali  League  (GSL).  Although  Hus- 
seen' s  firebrand  politics  continued  to  worry  the  SYL  leadership, 
he  never  managed  to  cut  deeply  into  the  party's  constituency. 

The  SYL  won  the  1958  municipal  elections  in  the  Italian  trust 
territory,  in  part  because  it  had  begun  to  succeed  in  attracting  im- 
portant Rahanwayn  clan  elements  like  Abdulqaadir  Soppe,  who 
formerly  had  supported  the  HDM.  Its  growing  appeal  put  the  SYL 
in  a  commanding  position  going  into  the  pre-independence  elec- 
tion campaigns  for  the  National  Assembly  of  the  Republic,  a  new 
body  that  replaced  the  two  legislative  assemblies  of  British  and 
Italian  Somaliland.  The  National  Assembly  had  been  enlarged  to 


23 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

contain  ninety  seats  for  southern  representatives  and  thirty-three 
for  northern  representatives.  The  HDM  and  the  GSL  accused  the 
SYL  of  tampering  with  the  election  process  and  decided  to  boy- 
cott the  elections.  Consequently,  the  SYL  garnered  sixty-one  un- 
contested seats  by  default,  in  addition  to  the  twenty  seats  contested 
and  won  by  the  party.  The  new  government  formed  in  1959  was 
headed  by  incumbent  prime  minister  Iise.  The  expanded  SYL  gave 
representation  to  virtually  all  the  major  clans  in  the  south.  Although 
efforts  were  made  to  distribute  the  fifteen  cabinet  posts  among  the 
contending  clan-families,  a  political  tug-of-war  within  the  party  con- 
tinued between  conservatives  from  the  religious  communities  and 
modernists  such  as  Abdirashiid  Ali  Shermaarke. 

Meanwhile,  in  British  Somaliland  the  civilian  colonial  adminis- 
tration attempted  to  expand  educational  opportunities  in  the  pro- 
tectorate. The  number  of  Somalis  qualifying  for  administrative  posts 
remained  negligible,  however.  The  protectorate  had  experienced 
little  economic  or  infrastructural  development  apart  from  the  dig- 
ging of  more  bore  wells  and  the  establishment  of  agricultural  and 
veterinary  services  to  benefit  animal  and  plant  husbandry.  Com- 
prehensive geological  surveys  failed  to  uncover  exploitable  miner- 
al resources. 

Politically,  although  the  SYL  opened  branches  in  the  north  and 
the  SNL  continued  to  expand  its  membership,  neither  party  could 
mobilize  grass-roots  support.  This  changed  in  1954,  when  the  last 
British  liaison  officers  withdrew  from  the  Reserved  Areas — parts 
of  the  Ogaden  and  the  Haud  in  which  the  British  were  given  tem- 
porary administrative  rights,  in  accordance  with  a  1942  military 
convention  between  Britain  and  Ethiopian  emperor-in-exile  Haile 
Selassie.  This  move  conformed  with  Britain's  agreement  with  Ethio- 
pia confirming  the  latter' s  title  deeds  to  the  Haud  under  the  1897 
treaty  that  granted  Ethiopia  full  jurisdiction  over  the  region.  The 
British  colonial  administrators  of  the  area  were,  however,  embar- 
rassed by  what  they  saw  as  Britain's  betrayal  of  the  trust  put  in 
it  by  Somali  clans  who  were  to  be  protected  against  Ethiopian  raids. 

The  Somalis  responded  with  dismay  to  the  ceding  of  the  Haud 
to  Ethiopia.  A  new  party  named  the  National  United  Front  (NUF), 
supported  by  the  SNL  and  the  SYL,  arose  under  the  leadership 
of  a  Somali  civil  servant,  Michael  Mariano,  a  prominent  veteran 
of  the  SYL's  formative  years.  Remarkably,  for  the  militantly  Mus- 
lim country,  the  man  selected  to  lead  the  nationalist  struggle  for 
the  return  of  the  Haud  was  a  Christian.  NUF  representatives  visited 
London  and  the  UN  seeking  to  have  the  Haud  issue  brought  be- 
fore the  world  community,  in  particular  the  International  Court 
of  Justice.  Britain  attempted  unsuccessfully  to  purchase  the  Haud 


24 


Old  port  gate,  Mogadishu 
Courtesy  R.  W.  S.  Hudson 


from  Ethiopia.  Ethiopia  responded  with  a  counterprotest  laying 
claim  to  all  Somali  territories,  including  the  British  and  Italian 
Somalilands,  as  part  of  historical  Ethiopia — territories,  Haile  Selas- 
sie claimed,  seized  by  the  European  powers  during  a  period  of  Ethio- 
pian weakness.  The  Europeans  were  reluctant  to  press  new 
territorial  demands  on  Haile  Selassie  and  did  litde  to  help  the  Soma- 
lis  recover  the  Haud. 

Political  protests  forced  Britain  in  1956  to  introduce  represen- 
tative government  in  its  protectorate  and  to  accept  the  eventual 
unification  of  British  Somaliland  with  southern  Somalia.  Accord- 
ingly, in  1957  a  Legislative  Council  was  established,  composed  of 
six  members  appointed  by  the  governor  to  represent  the  principal 
clan-families.  The  council  was  expanded  the  following  year  to  consist 
of  twelve  elected  members,  two  appointees,  and  fifteen  senior  elders 
and  notables  chosen  as  ex  officio  members.  The  electoral  proce- 
dure in  the  north  followed  that  in  the  south,  with  elections  in  ur- 
ban areas  conducted  by  secret  ballot  and  in  the  countryside  by 
acclamation  in  clan  assemblies.  In  1960  the  first  elections  contest- 
ed along  party  lines  resulted  in  a  victory  for  the  SNL  and  its  affili- 
ate, the  USP,  the  two  winning  between  them  all  but  one  of  the 
thirty-three  seats  in  the  new  Legislative  Assembly.  The  remain- 
ing seat  was  won  by  Mariano,  the  NUF's  defeat  clearly  attributable 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

to  his  Christian  affiliation,  which  his  political  opponents  had  made 
a  prominent  campaign  issue.  Following  the  election,  Mahammad 
Ibrahim  Igaal  was  chosen  as  prime  minister  to  lead  a  four-man 
government. 

Popular  demand  compelled  the  leaders  of  the  two  territories  to 
proceed  with  plans  for  immediate  unification.  The  British  govern- 
ment acquiesced  to  the  force  of  Somali  nationalist  public  opinion 
and  agreed  to  terminate  its  rule  of  Somaliland  in  1 960  in  time  for 
the  protectorate  to  merge  with  the  trust  territory  on  the  indepen- 
dence date  already  fixed  by  the  UN  commission.  In  April  1960, 
leaders  of  the  two  territories  met  in  Mogadishu  and  agreed  to  form 
a  unitary  state.  An  elected  president  was  to  be  head  of  state.  Full 
executive  powers  would  be  held  by  a  prime  minister  answerable 
to  an  elected  National  Assembly  of  123  members  representing  the 
two  territories.  Accordingly,  British  Somaliland  received  its  in- 
dependence on  June  26,  1960,  and  united  with  the  trust  territory 
to  establish  the  Somali  Republic  on  July  1,  1960.  The  legislature 
appointed  Usmaan  president;  he  in  turn  appointed  Shermaarke 
the  first  prime  minister.  Shermaarke  formed  a  coalition  govern- 
ment dominated  by  the  SYL  but  supported  by  the  two  clan-based 
northern  parties,  the  SNL  and  the  USP.  Usmaan' s  appointment 
as  president  was  ratified  a  year  later  in  a  national  referendum. 

From  Independence  to  Revolution 

During  the  nine-year  period  of  parliamentary  democracy  that 
followed  Somali  independence,  freedom  of  expression  was  widely 
regarded  as  being  derived  from  the  traditional  right  of  every  man 
to  be  heard.  The  national  ideal  professed  by  Somalis  was  one  of 
political  and  legal  equality  in  which  historical  Somali  values  and 
acquired  Western  practices  appeared  to  coincide.  Politics  was 
viewed  as  a  realm  not  limited  to  one  profession,  clan,  or  class,  but 
open  to  all  male  members  of  society.  The  role  of  women,  however, 
was  more  limited.  Women  had  voted  in  Italian  Somaliland  since 
the  municipal  elections  in  1958.  In  May  1963,  by  an  assembly  mar- 
gin of  52  to  42,  suffrage  was  extended  to  women  in  former  British 
Somaliland  as  well.  Politics  was  at  once  the  Somalis'  most  prac- 
ticed art  and  favorite  sport.  The  most  desired  possession  of  most 
nomads  was  a  radio,  which  was  used  to  keep  informed  on  political 
news.  The  level  of  political  participation  often  surpassed  that  in 
many  Western  democracies. 

Problems  of  National  Integration 

Although  unified  as  a  single  nation  at  independence,  the  south 
and  the  north  were,  from  an  institutional  perspective,  two  separate 


26 


Historical  Setting 


countries.  Italy  and  Britain  had  left  the  two  with  separate  adminis- 
trative, legal,  and  education  systems  in  which  affairs  were  conducted 
according  to  different  procedures  and  in  different  languages.  Police, 
taxes,  and  the  exchange  rates  of  their  respective  currencies  also 
differed.  Their  educated  elites  had  divergent  interests,  and  eco- 
nomic contacts  between  the  two  regions  were  virtually  nonexistent. 
In  1960  the  UN  created  the  Consultative  Commission  for  Integra- 
tion, an  international  board  headed  by  UN  official  Paolo  Contini, 
to  guide  the  gradual  merger  of  the  new  country's  legal  systems  and 
institutions  and  to  reconcile  the  differences  between  them.  (In  1964 
the  Consultative  Commission  for  Legislation  succeeded  this  body. 
Composed  of  Somalis,  it  took  up  its  predecessor's  work  under  the 
chairmanship  of  Mariano.)  But  many  southerners  believed  that, 
because  of  experience  gained  under  the  Italian  trusteeship,  theirs 
was  the  better  prepared  of  the  two  regions  for  self-government. 
Northern  political,  administrative,  and  commercial  elites  were  reluc- 
tant to  recognize  that  they  now  had  to  deal  with  Mogadishu. 

At  independence,  the  northern  region  had  two  functioning  po- 
litical parties:  the  SNL,  representing  the  Isaaq  clan-family  that  con- 
stituted a  numerical  majority  there;  and  the  USP,  supported  largely 
by  the  Dir  and  the  Daarood.  In  a  unified  Somalia,  however,  the 
Isaaq  were  a  small  minority,  whereas  the  northern  Daarood  joined 
members  of  their  clan- family  from  the  south  in  the  SYL.  The  Dir, 
having  few  kinsmen  in  the  south,  were  pulled  on  the  one  hand  by 
traditional  ties  to  the  Hawiye  and  on  the  other  hand  by  common 
regional  sympathies  to  the  Isaaq.  The  southern  opposition  party, 
the  GSL,  pro-Arab  and  militantly  pan-Somali,  attracted  the  sup- 
port of  the  SNL  and  the  USP  against  the  SYL,  which  had  adopted 
a  moderate  stand  before  independence. 

Northern  misgivings  about  being  too  tightly  harnessed  to  the 
south  were  demonstrated  by  the  voting  pattern  in  the  June  1961 
referendum  on  the  constitution,  which  was  in  effect  Somalia's  first 
national  election.  Although  the  draft  was  overwhelmingly  approved 
in  the  south,  it  was  supported  by  less  than  50  percent  of  the  north- 
ern electorate. 

Dissatisfaction  at  the  distribution  of  power  among  the  clan- 
families  and  between  the  two  regions  boiled  over  in  December  1961 , 
when  a  group  of  British-trained  junior  army  officers  in  the  north 
rebelled  in  reaction  to  the  posting  of  higher  ranking  southern  officers 
(who  had  been  trained  by  the  Italians  for  police  duties)  to  com- 
mand their  units.  The  ringleaders  urged  a  separation  of  north  and 
south.  Northern  noncommissioned  officers  arrested  the  rebels,  but 
discontent  in  the  north  persisted. 


27 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

In  early  1962,  GSL  leader  Husseen,  seeking  in  part  to  exploit 
northern  dissatisfaction,  attempted  to  form  an  amalgamated  party, 
known  as  the  Somali  Democratic  Union  (SDU).  It  enrolled  northern 
elements,  some  of  which  were  displeased  with  the  northern  SNL 
representatives  in  the  coalition  government.  Husseen 's  attempt 
failed.  In  May  1962,  however,  Igaal  and  another  northern  SNL 
minister  resigned  from  the  cabinet  and  took  many  SNL  followers 
with  them  into  a  new  party,  the  Somali  National  Congress  (SNC), 
which  won  widespread  northern  support.  The  new  party  also  gained 
support  in  the  south  when  it  was  joined  by  an  SYL  faction  com- 
posed predominantly  of  Hawiye.  This  move  gave  the  country  three 
truly  national  political  parties  and  further  served  to  blur  north-south 
differences. 

Pan-Somalism 

Despite  the  difficulties  encountered  in  integrating  north  and 
south,  the  most  important  political  issue  in  postindependence  Somali 
politics  was  the  unification  of  all  areas  populated  by  Somalis  into 
one  country — a  concept  identified  as  pan-Somalism,  or  Greater 
Somalia.  Politicians  assumed  that  this  issue  dominated  popular 
opinion  and  that  any  government  would  fall  if  it  did  not  demon- 
strate a  militant  attitude  toward  neighboring  countries  occupying 
Somali  territory. 

Preoccupation  with  Greater  Somalia  shaped  the  character  of  the 
country's  newly  formed  institutions  and  led  to  the  build-up  of  the 
Somali  military  and,  ultimately,  to  the  war  with  Ethiopia  and  fight- 
ing in  the  NFD  in  Kenya.  By  law  the  exact  size  of  the  National 
Assembly  was  not  established  in  order  to  facilitate  the  inclusion 
of  representatives  of  the  contested  areas  after  unification.  The  na- 
tional flag  featured  a  five-pointed  star  whose  points  represented 
those  areas  claimed  as  part  of  the  Somali  nation — the  former  Italian 
and  British  territories,  the  Ogaden,  Djibouti,  and  the  NFD. 
Moreover,  the  preamble  to  the  constitution  approved  in  1961  in- 
cluded the  statement,  "The  Somali  Republic  promotes  by  legal 
and  peaceful  means,  the  union  of  the  territories."  The  constitu- 
tion also  provided  that  all  ethnic  Somalis,  no  matter  where  they 
resided,  were  citizens  of  the  republic.  Somalia  did  not  claim 
sovereignty  over  adjacent  territories,  but  rather  demanded  that 
Somalis  living  in  them  be  granted  the  right  to  self-determination. 
Somali  leaders  asserted  that  they  would  be  satisfied  only  when  their 
fellow  Somalis  outside  the  republic  had  the  opportunity  to  decide 
for  themselves  what  their  status  would  be. 

At  the  1961  London  talks  on  the  future  of  Kenya,  Somali 
representatives  from  the  NFD  demanded  that  Britain  arrange  for 


28 


Historical  Setting 


the  NFD's  separation  before  Kenya  was  granted  independence. 
The  British  government  appointed  a  commission  to  ascertain  popu- 
lar opinion  in  the  NFD  on  the  question.  Its  investigation  indicat- 
ed that  separation  from  Kenya  was  almost  unanimously  supported 
by  the  Somalis  and  their  fellow  nomadic  pastoralists,  the  Oromo. 
These  two  peoples,  it  was  noted,  represented  a  majority  of  the 
NFD's  population. 

Despite  Somali  diplomatic  activity,  the  colonial  government  in 
Kenya  did  not  act  on  the  commission's  findings.  British  officials 
believed  that  the  federal  format  then  proposed  in  the  Kenyan  con- 
stitution would  provide  a  solution  through  the  degree  of  autono- 
my it  allowed  the  predominantly  Somali  region  within  the  federal 
system.  This  solution  did  not  diminish  Somali  demands  for  unifi- 
cation, however,  and  the  modicum  of  federalism  disappeared  af- 
ter Kenya's  government  opted  for  a  centralized  constitution  in  1964. 

The  denial  of  Somali  claims  led  to  growing  hostility  between  the 
Kenyan  government  and  Somalis  in  the  NFD.  Adapting  easily  to 
life  as  shiftas,  or  bandits,  the  Somalis  conducted  a  guerrilla  cam- 
paign against  the  police  and  army  for  more  than  four  years  be- 
tween 1960  and  1964.  The  Somali  government  officially  denied 
Kenya's  charges  that  the  guerrillas  were  trained  in  Somalia, 
equipped  there  with  Soviet  arms,  and  directed  from  Mogadishu. 
But  it  could  not  deny  that  the  Voice  of  Somalia  radio  influenced 
the  level  of  guerrilla  activity  by  means  of  its  broadcasts  beamed 
into  Kenya. 

Somalia  refused  to  acknowledge  in  particular  the  validity  of  the 
Anglo-Ethiopian  Treaty  of  1954  recognizing  Ethiopia's  claim  to 
the  Haud  or,  in  general,  the  relevance  of  treaties  defining  Somali- 
Ethiopian  borders.  Somalia's  position  was  based  on  three  points: 
first,  that  the  treaties  disregarded  agreements  made  with  the  clans 
that  had  put  them  under  British  protection;  second,  that  the  Somalis 
were  not  consulted  on  the  terms  of  the  treaties  and  in  fact  had  not 
been  informed  of  their  existence;  and  third,  that  such  treaties  vio- 
lated the  self-determination  principle. 

Incidents  began  to  occur  in  the  Haud  within  six  months  after 
Somali  independence.  At  first  the  incidents  were  confined  to  minor 
clashes  between  Ethiopian  police  and  armed  parties  of  Somali 
nomads,  usually  resulting  from  traditional  provocations  such  as 
smuggling,  livestock  rustling,  and  tax  collecting,  rather  than  ir- 
redentist agitation.  Their  actual  causes  aside,  these  incidents  tended 
to  be  viewed  in  Somalia  as  expressions  of  Somali  nationalism. 
Hostilities  grew  steadily,  eventually  involving  small-scale  actions 
between  Somali  and  Ethiopian  armed  forces  along  the  border.  In 
February  1964,  armed  conflict  erupted  along  the  Somali-Ethiopian 


29 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

frontier,  and  Ethiopian  aircraft  raided  targets  in  Somalia.  Hostili- 
ties ended  in  April  through  the  mediation  of  Sudan,  acting  under 
the  auspices  of  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU).  Under 
the  terms  of  the  cease-fire,  a  joint  commission  was  established  to 
examine  the  causes  of  frontier  incidents,  and  a  demilitarized  zone 
ten  to  fifteen  kilometers  wide  was  established  on  either  side  of  the 
border.  At  least  temporarily,  further  military  confrontations  were 
prevented. 

Ethiopia  and  Kenya  concluded  a  mutual  defense  pact  in  1964 
in  response  to  what  both  countries  perceived  as  a  continuing  threat 
from  Somalia.  This  pact  was  renewed  in  1980  and  again  on  Au- 
gust 28,  1987,  calling  for  the  coordination  of  the  armed  forces  of 
both  states  in  the  event  of  an  attack  by  Somalia.  Most  OAU  mem- 
bers were  alienated  by  Somali  irredentism  and  feared  that  if  Somalia 
were  successful  in  detaching  the  Somali-populated  portions  of  Kenya 
and  Ethiopia,  the  example  might  inspire  their  own  restive  minori- 
ties divided  by  frontiers  imposed  during  the  colonial  period.  In  ad- 
dition, in  making  its  irredentist  claims,  the  Somalis  had  challenged 
two  of  Africa's  leading  elder  statesmen,  President  Jomo  Kenyatta 
of  Kenya  and  Emperor  Haile  Selassie  of  Ethiopia. 

Foreign  Relations,  1960-69 

Somalia's  government  was  in  the  hands  of  leaders  who  were 
favorably  disposed  toward  the  Western  democracies,  particularly 
Italy  and  Britain,  in  whose  political  traditions  many  of  them  had 
been  educated.  Nevertheless,  as  a  reflection  of  its  desire  to  dem- 
onstrate self-reliance  and  nonalignment,  the  Somali  government 
established  ties  with  the  Soviet  Union  and  China  soon  after  in- 
dependence. 

The  growth  of  Soviet  influence  in  Somalia  dated  from  1962,  when 
Moscow  agreed  to  provide  loans  to  finance  the  training  and  equip- 
ping of  the  armed  forces.  By  the  late  1960s,  about  300  Soviet  mili- 
tary personnel  were  serving  as  advisers  to  the  Somali  forces,  whose 
inventories  had  been  stocked  almost  entirely  with  equipment  of  East 
European  manufacture  (see  Foreign  Military  Assistance,  ch.  5). 
During  the  same  period,  about  500  Somalis  received  military  train- 
ing in  the  Soviet  Union.  As  a  result  of  their  contact  with  Soviet 
personnel,  some  Somali  military  officers  developed  a  Marxist  per- 
spective on  important  issues  that  contrasted  with  the  democratic 
outlook  of  most  of  the  country's  civilian  leaders. 

The  Soviet  Union  also  provided  nonmilitary  assistance,  includ- 
ing technical  training  scholarships,  printing  presses,  broadcasting 
equipment  for  the  government,  and  agricultural  and  industrial  de- 
velopment aid.  By  1969  considerable  nonmilitary  assistance  had 


30 


Historical  Setting 


also  been  provided  by  China.  Such  projects  included  the  construc- 
tion of  hospitals  and  factories  and  in  the  1970s  of  the  major  north- 
south  road. 

Somalia's  relations  with  Italy  after  independence  remained  good, 
and  Italian  influence  continued  in  the  modernized  sectors  of  so- 
cial and  cultural  affairs.  Although  their  number  had  dropped  to 
about  3,000  by  1965,  the  Italians  residing  in  Somalia  still  domi- 
nated many  of  the  country's  economic  activities.  Italian  economic 
assistance  during  the  1960s  totaled  more  than  a  quarter  of  all  the 
nonmilitary  foreign  aid  received,  and  Italy  was  an  important  market 
for  Somali  goods,  particularly  food  crops  produced  on  the  large, 
Italian-owned  commercial  farms  in  the  river  valleys.  Italy's  spon- 
sorship enabled  Somalia  to  become  an  associate  of  the  European 
Economic  Community  (EEC),  which  formed  another  source  of  eco- 
nomic and  technical  aid  and  assured  preferential  status  for  Somali 
exports  in  West  European  markets. 

In  contrast  to  the  cordial  relations  maintained  with  Italy,  Somalia 
severed  diplomatic  ties  to  Britain  in  1962  to  protest  British  sup- 
port of  Kenya's  position  on  the  NFD.  Somalia's  relations  with 
France  were  likewise  strained  because  of  opposition  to  the  French 
presence  in  the  Territory  of  the  Afars  and  Issas  (formerly  French 
Somaliland,  later  independent  Djibouti).  Meanwhile,  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany)  provided  Somalia  with  a 
moderate  amount  of  aid,  most  notably  sharing  with  Italy  and  the 
United  States  the  task  of  training  the  police  force.  The  Somali 
government  purposely  sought  a  variety  of  foreign  sponsors  to  in- 
struct its  security  forces,  and  Western-trained  police  were  seen  as 
counterbalancing  the  Soviet-trained  military.  Likewise,  the  divi- 
sion of  training  missions  was  believed  to  reduce  dependence  on 
either  the  West  or  the  communist  countries  to  meet  Somali  securi- 
ty needs  (see  Somalia  Police  Force,  ch.  5). 

Throughout  the  1960s,  the  United  States  supplied  nonmilitary 
aid  to  Somalia,  a  large  proportion  of  it  in  the  form  of  grants.  But 
the  image  of  the  United  States  in  the  eyes  of  most  Somalis  was  in- 
fluenced more  by  its  support  for  Ethiopia  than  by  any  assistance  to 
Somalia.  The  large  scale  of  United  States  military  aid  to  Ethiopia 
was  particularly  resented.  Although  aid  to  that  country  had  begun 
long  before  the  Somali-Ethiopian  conflict  and  was  based  on  other 
considerations,  the  Somalis'  attitude  remained  unchanged  as  long 
as  the  United  States  continued  to  train  and  equip  a  hostile  neighbor. 

The  Husseen  Government 

Countrywide  municipal  elections,  in  which  the  SYL  won  74  per- 
cent of  the  seats,  occurred  in  November  1963.  These  were  followed 


31 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

in  March  1964  by  the  country's  first  postindependence  national 
elections.  Again  the  SYL  triumphed,  winning  69  out  of  123 
parliamentary  seats.  The  party's  true  margin  of  victory  was  even 
greater,  as  the  fifty-four  seats  won  by  the  opposition  were  divided 
among  a  number  of  small  parties. 

After  the  1964  National  Assembly  election  in  March,  a  crisis  oc- 
curred that  left  Somalia  without  a  government  until  the  beginning 
of  September.  President  Usmaan,  who  was  empowered  to  propose 
the  candidate  for  prime  minister  after  an  election  or  the  fall  of  a 
government,  chose  Abdirizaaq  Haaji  Husseen  as  his  nominee  in- 
stead of  the  incumbent,  Shermaarke,  who  had  the  endorsement 
of  the  SYL  party  leadership.  Shermaarke  had  been  prime  minister 
for  the  four  previous  years,  and  Usmaan  decided  that  new  leader- 
ship might  be  able  to  introduce  fresh  ideas  for  solving  national 
problems. 

In  drawing  up  a  Council  of  Ministers  for  presentation  to  the  Na- 
tional Assembly,  the  nominee  for  prime  minister  chose  candidates 
on  the  basis  of  ability  and  without  regard  to  place  of  origin.  But 
Husseen' s  choices  strained  intraparty  relations  and  broke  the  un- 
written rules  that  there  be  clan  and  regional  balance.  For  instance, 
only  two  members  of  Shermaarke 's  cabinet  were  to  be  retained, 
and  the  number  of  posts  in  northern  hands  was  to  be  increased 
from  two  to  five. 

The  SYL's  governing  Central  Committee  and  its  parliamentary 
groups  became  split.  Husseen  had  been  a  party  member  since  1944 
and  had  participated  in  the  two  previous  Shermaarke  cabinets.  His 
primary  appeal  was  to  younger  and  more  educated  party  mem- 
bers. Several  political  leaders  who  had  been  left  out  of  the  cabinet 
joined  the  supporters  of  Shermaarke  to  form  an  opposition  group 
within  the  party.  As  a  result,  the  Husseen  faction  sought  support 
among  non-SYL  members  of  the  National  Assembly. 

Although  the  disagreements  primarily  involved  personal  or  group 
political  ambitions,  the  debate  leading  to  the  initial  vote  of  confi- 
dence centered  on  the  issue  of  Greater  Somalia.  Both  Usmaan  and 
prime  minister-designate  Husseen  wanted  to  give  priority  to  the 
country's  internal  economic  and  social  problems.  Although  Hus- 
seen had  supported  militant  pan-Somalism,  he  was  portrayed  as 
willing  to  accept  the  continued  sovereignty  of  Ethiopia  and  Kenya 
over  Somali  areas. 

The  proposed  cabinet  failed  to  be  confirmed  by  a  margin  of  two 
votes.  Seven  National  Assembly  members,  including  Shermaarke, 
abstained,  while  forty-eight  members  of  the  SYL  voted  for  Hus- 
seen and  thirty-three  opposed  him.  Despite  the  apparent  split  in 
the  SYL,  it  continued  to  attract  recruits  from  other  parties.  In  the 


32 


Historical  Setting 


first  three  months  after  the  election,  seventeen  members  of  the 
parliamentary  opposition  resigned  from  their  parties  to  join  the 
SYL. 

Usmaan  ignored  the  results  of  the  vote  and  again  nominated  Hus- 
seen  as  prime  minister.  After  intraparty  negotiation,  which  included 
the  reinstatement  of  four  party  officials  expelled  for  voting  against 
him,  Husseen  presented  a  second  cabinet  list  to  the  National  As- 
sembly that  included  all  but  one  of  his  earlier  nominees.  However, 
the  proposed  new  cabinet  contained  three  additional  ministerial 
positions  filled  by  men  chosen  to  mollify  opposition  factions.  The 
new  cabinet  was  approved  with  the  support  of  all  but  a  handful 
of  SYL  National  Assembly  members.  Husseen  remained  in  office 
until  the  presidential  elections  of  June  1967. 

The  1967  presidential  elections,  conducted  by  a  secret  poll  of 
National  Assembly  members,  pitted  former  prime  minister  Sher- 
maarke  against  Usmaan.  Again  the  central  issue  was  moderation 
versus  militancy  on  the  pan-Somali  question.  Usmaan,  through 
Husseen,  had  stressed  priority  for  internal  development.  Sher- 
maarke,  who  had  served  as  prime  minister  when  pan-Somalism 
was  at  its  height,  was  elected  president  of  the  republic. 

The  Igaal  Government 

The  new  president  nominated  as  prime  minister  Mahammad 
Ibrahim  Igaal,  who  raised  cabinet  membership  from  thirteen  to 
fifteen  members  and  included  representatives  of  every  major  clan- 
family,  as  well  as  some  members  of  the  rival  SNC.  In  August  1967, 
the  National  Assembly  confirmed  his  appointment  without  seri- 
ous opposition.  Although  the  new  prime  minister  had  supported 
Shermaarke  in  the  presidential  election,  he  was  a  northerner  and 
had  led  a  1962  defection  of  the  northern  SNL  assembly  members 
from  the  government.  He  had  also  been  closely  involved  in  the 
founding  of  the  SNC  but,  with  many  other  northern  members  of 
that  group,  had  rejoined  the  SYL  after  the  1964  elections. 

A  more  important  difference  between  Shermaarke  and  Igaal, 
other  than  their  past  affiliations,  was  the  new  prime  minister's 
moderate  position  on  pan-Somali  issues  and  his  desire  for  improved 
relations  with  other  African  countries.  In  these  areas,  he  was  al- 
lied with  the  "modernists"  in  the  government,  parliament,  and 
administration  who  favored  redirecting  the  nation's  energies  from 
confrontation  with  its  neighbors  to  combating  social  and  econom- 
ic ills.  Although  many  of  his  domestic  policies  seemed  more  in  line 
with  those  of  the  previous  administration,  Igaal  continued  to  hold 
the  confidence  of  both  Shermaarke  and  the  National  Assembly 


33 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

during  the  eighteen  months  preceding  the  March  1969  national 
elections. 

Igaal's  policy  of  regional  detente  resulted  in  improved  relations 
with  Ethiopia  and  Kenya.  The  prime  minister  did  not  relinquish 
Somalia's  territorial  claims,  but  he  hoped  to  create  an  atmosphere 
in  which  the  issue  could  be  peacefully  negotiated.  In  September 
1968,  Somalia  and  Ethiopia  agreed  to  establish  commercial  air  and 
telecommunication  links.  The  termination  of  the  state  of  emergency 
in  the  border  regions,  which  had  been  declared  by  Ethiopia  in 
February  1964,  permitted  the  resumption  of  free  access  by  Somali 
pastoralists  to  their  traditional  grazing  lands  and  the  reopening  of 
the  road  across  Ethiopian  territory  between  Mogadishu  and  Har- 
geysa.  With  foreign  affairs  a  less  consuming  issue,  the  government's 
energy  and  the  country's  meager  resources  could  now  be  applied 
more  effectively  to  the  challenges  of  internal  development.  However, 
the  relaxation  of  tensions  had  an  unanticipated  effect.  The  con- 
flict with  its  neighbors  had  promoted  Somalia's  internal  political 
cohesion  and  solidified  public  opinion  at  all  levels  on  at  least  one 
issue.  As  tension  from  that  source  subsided,  old  cleavages  based 
on  clan  rivalries  became  more  prominent. 

The  March  1969  elections  were  the  first  to  combine  voting  for 
municipal  and  National  Assembly  posts.  Sixty-four  parties  con- 
tested the  elections.  Only  the  SYL,  however,  presented  candidates 
in  every  election  district,  in  many  cases  without  opposition.  Eight 
other  parties  presented  lists  of  candidates  for  national  offices  in  most 
districts.  Of  the  remaining  fifty-five  parties,  only  twenty- four  gained 
representation  in  the  assembly,  but  all  of  these  were  disbanded 
almost  immediately  when  their  fifty  members  joined  the  SYL. 

Both  the  plethora  of  parties  and  the  defection  to  the  majority 
party  were  typical  of  Somali  parliamentary  elections.  To  register 
for  elective  office,  a  candidate  merely  needed  either  the  support 
of  500  voters  or  the  sponsorship  of  his  clan,  expressed  through  a 
vote  of  its  traditional  assembly.  After  registering,  the  office  seeker 
then  attempted  to  become  the  official  candidate  of  a  political  party. 
Failing  this,  he  would  remain  on  the  ballot  as  an  individual  con- 
testant. Voting  was  by  party  list,  which  could  make  a  candidate 
a  one-person  party.  (This  practice  explained  not  only  the  prolifer- 
ation of  small  parties  but  also  the  transient  nature  of  party  sup- 
port.) Many  candidates  affiliated  with  a  major  party  only  long 
enough  to  use  its  symbol  in  the  election  campaign  and,  if  elected, 
abandoned  it  for  the  winning  side  as  soon  as  the  National  Assem- 
bly met.  Thus,  by  the  end  of  May  1969  the  SYL  parliamentary 
cohort  had  swelled  from  73  to  109. 


34 


Old  fort,  used  as  museum,  Mogadishu 
Courtesy  R.W.S.  Hudson 


In  addition,  the  eleven  SNC  members  had  formed  a  coalition 
with  the  SYL,  which  held  120  of  the  123  seats  in  the  National  As- 
sembly. A  few  of  these  120  left  the  SYL  after  the  composition  of 
Igaal's  cabinet  became  clear  and  after  the  announcement  of  his 
program,  both  of  which  were  bound  to  displease  some  who  had 
joined  only  to  be  on  the  winning  side.  Offered  a  huge  list  of  candi- 
dates, the  almost  900,000  voters  in  1969  took  delight  in  defeating 
incumbents.  Of  the  incumbent  deputies,  77  out  of  123  were  not 
returned  (including  8  out  of  18  members  of  the  previous  cabinet), 
but  these  figures  did  not  unequivocally  demonstrate  dissatisfaction 
with  the  government.  Statistically,  they  were  nearly  identical  with 
the  results  of  the  1964  election,  and,  given  the  profusion  of  parties 
and  the  system  of  proportional  representation,  a  clear  sense  of  public 
opinion  could  not  be  obtained  solely  on  the  basis  of  the  election 
results.  The  fact  that  a  single  party — the  SYL — dominated  the  field 
implied  neither  stability  nor  solidarity.  Anthropologist  I.M.  Lewis 
has  noted  that  the  SYL  government  was  a  very  heterogeneous  group 
with  diverging  personal  and  lineage  interests. 

Candidates  who  had  lost  seats  in  the  assembly  and  those  who 
had  supported  them  were  frustrated  and  angry.  A  number  of 
charges  were  made  of  government  election  fraud,  at  least  some  firm- 
ly founded.  Discontent  was  exacerbated  when  the  Supreme  Court, 


35 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

under  its  newly  appointed  president,  declined  to  accept  jurisdic- 
tion over  election  petitions,  although  it  had  accepted  such  juris- 
diction on  an  earlier  occasion. 

Neither  the  president  nor  the  prime  minister  seemed  particu- 
larly concerned  about  official  corruption  and  nepotism.  Although 
these  practices  were  conceivably  normal  in  a  society  based  on  kin- 
ship, some  were  bitter  over  their  prevalence  in  the  National  As- 
sembly, where  it  seemed  that  deputies  ignored  their  constituents 
in  trading  votes  for  personal  gain. 

Among  those  most  dissatisfied  with  the  government  were  intellec- 
tuals and  members  of  the  armed  forces  and  police.  (General  Ma- 
hammad  Abshir,  the  chief  of  police,  had  resigned  just  before  the 
elections  after  refusing  to  permit  police  vehicles  to  transport  SYL 
voters  to  the  polls.)  Of  these  dissatisfied  groups,  the  most  signifi- 
cant element  was  the  military,  which  since  1961  had  remained  out- 
side politics.  It  had  done  so  partly  because  the  government  had 
not  called  upon  it  for  support  and  partly  because,  unlike  most  other 
African  armed  forces,  the  Somali  National  Army  had  a  genuine 
external  mission  in  which  it  was  supported  by  all  Somalis — that 
of  protecting  the  borders  with  Ethiopia  and  Kenya. 

Coup  d'Etat 

The  stage  was  set  for  a  coup  d'etat,  but  the  event  that  precipi- 
tated the  coup  was  unplanned.  On  October  15,  1969,  a  bodyguard 
killed  president  Shermaarke  while  prime  minister  Igaal  was  out 
of  the  country.  (The  assassin,  a  member  of  a  lineage  said  to  have 
been  badly  treated  by  the  president,  was  subsequently  tried  and 
executed  by  the  revolutionary  government.)  Igaal  returned  to 
Mogadishu  to  arrange  for  the  selection  of  a  new  president  by  the 
National  Assembly.  His  choice  was,  like  Shermaarke,  a  member 
of  the  Daarood  clan-family  (Igaal  was  an  Isaaq).  Government  crit- 
ics, particularly  a  group  of  army  officers,  saw  no  hope  for  improv- 
ing the  country's  situation  by  this  means.  On  October  21,  1969, 
when  it  became  apparent  that  the  assembly  would  support  Igaal 's 
choice,  army  units  took  over  strategic  points  in  Mogadishu  and 
rounded  up  government  officials  and  other  prominent  political 
figures.  The  police  cooperated  with  the  army. 

Although  not  regarded  as  the  author  of  the  military  takeover, 
army  commander  Major  General  Mahammad  Siad  Barre  assumed 
leadership  of  the  officers  who  deposed  the  civilian  government.  The 
new  governing  body,  the  Supreme  Revolutionary  Council  (SRC), 
installed  Siad  Barre  as  its  president.  The  SRC  arrested  and  detained 
at  the  presidential  palace  leading  members  of  the  democratic  re- 
gime, including  Igaal.  The  SRC  banned  political  parties,  abolished 


36 


Historical  Setting 


the  National  Assembly,  and  suspended  the  constitution.  The  new 
regime's  goals  included  an  end  to  "tribalism,  nepotism,  corrup- 
tion, and  misrule."  Existing  treaties  were  to  be  honored,  but  na- 
tional liberation  movements  and  Somali  unification  were  to  be 
supported.  The  country  was  renamed  the  Somali  Democratic 
Republic. 

The  Revolutionary  Regime 

The  military  coup  that  ended  the  democratic  regime  retroactively 
defined  its  action  as  a  Marxist  revolution  not  only  instituting  a  new 
political  order  but  also  proposing  the  radical  transformation  of 
Somali  society  through  the  application  of  "scientific  socialism." 
Despite  the  presence  of  Soviet  advisers  with  the  armed  forces,  no 
evidence  indicated  that  the  coup  was  Soviet-inspired.  SRC  mem- 
bers included  officers  ranging  in  rank  from  major  general  (Siad 
Barre  and  Jaama  Ali  Qporsheel)  to  captain,  but  the  young  Soviet- 
trained  junior  officers — versed  in  Marx  and  Lenin — who  had  en- 
couraged the  coup  were  excluded  from  important  positions  in  the 
revolutionary  regime. 

The  SRC,  which  was  synonymous  with  the  new  government, 
reorganized  the  country's  political  and  legal  institutions,  formu- 
lated a  guiding  ideology  based  on  the  Quran  as  well  as  on  Marx, 
and  purged  civilian  officials  who  were  not  susceptible  to  "reedu- 
cation." The  influence  of  lineage  groups  at  all  levels  and  elitism 
in  public  life  based  on  clan  affiliation  were  targeted  for  eradica- 
tion. Eventually,  Siad  Barre  emerged  as  Somalia's  strongman, 
spokesman  for  its  revolution,  and  leader  of  its  government.  In  1971 
he  announced  the  regime's  intention  to  phase  out  military  rule  af- 
ter the  establishment  of  a  political  party  whose  central  committee 
ultimately  would  supersede  the  SRC  as  a  policy-  and  decision- 
making body. 

Supreme  Revolutionary  Council 

The  SRC  also  gave  priority  to  rapid  economic  and  social  de- 
velopment through  "crash  programs,"  efficient  and  responsive 
government,  and  creation  of  a  standard  written  form  of  Somali 
as  the  country's  single  official  language.  The  regime  pledged  con- 
tinuance of  regional  detente  in  its  foreign  relations  without  relin- 
quishing Somali  claims  to  disputed  territories. 

The  SRC's  domestic  program,  known  as  the  First  Charter  of 
the  Revolution,  appeared  in  1969.  Along  with  Law  Number  1,  an 
enabling  instrument  promulgated  on  the  day  of  the  military 
takeover,  the  First  Charter  provided  the  institutional  and  ideolog- 
ical framework  of  the  new  regime.  Law  Number  1  assigned  to  the 


37 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

SRC  all  functions  previously  performed  by  the  president,  the  Na- 
tional Assembly,  and  the  Council  of  Ministers,  as  well  as  many 
duties  of  the  courts.  The  role  of  the  twenty-five-member  military 
junta  was  that  of  an  executive  committee  that  made  decisions  and 
had  responsibility  to  formulate  and  execute  policy.  Actions  were 
based  on  majority  vote,  but  deliberations  rarely  were  published. 
SRC  members  met  in  specialized  committees  to  oversee  govern- 
ment operations  in  given  areas.  A  subordinate  fourteen-man 
secretariat — the  Council  of  the  Secretaries  of  State  (CSS) — 
functioned  as  a  cabinet  and  was  responsible  for  day-to-day  govern- 
ment operation,  although  it  lacked  political  power.  The  CSS  con- 
sisted largely  of  civilians,  but  until  1974  several  key  ministries  were 
headed  by  military  officers  who  were  concurrently  members  of  the 
SRC.  Existing  legislation  from  the  previous  democratic  govern- 
ment remained  in  force  unless  specifically  abrogated  by  the  SRC , 
usually  on  the  grounds  that  it  was  "incompatible  .  .  .  with  the  spirit 
of  the  Revolution."  In  February  1970,  the  democratic  constitu- 
tion of  1960,  suspended  at  the  time  of  the  coup,  was  repealed  by 
the  SRC  under  powers  conferred  by  Law  Number  1. 

Although  the  SRC  monopolized  executive  and  legislative  authori- 
ty, Siad  Barre  filled  a  number  of  executive  posts:  titular  head  of 
state,  chairman  of  the  CSS  (and  thereby  head  of  government),  com- 
mander in  chief  of  the  armed  forces,  and  president  of  the  SRC. 
His  titles  were  of  less  importance,  however,  than  was  his  personal 
authority,  to  which  most  SRC  members  deferred,  and  his  ability 
to  manipulate  the  clans. 

Military  and  police  officers,  including  some  SRC  members, 
headed  government  agencies  and  public  institutions  to  supervise 
economic  development,  financial  management,  trade,  commu- 
nications, and  public  utilities.  Military  officers  replaced  civilian 
district  and  regional  officials.  Meanwhile,  civil  servants  attended 
reorientation  courses  that  combined  professional  training  with  po- 
litical indoctrination,  and  those  found  to  be  incompetent  or  politi- 
cally unreliable  were  fired.  A  mass  dismissal  of  civil  servants  in 
1974,  however,  was  dictated  in  part  by  economic  pressures. 

The  legal  system  functioned  after  the  coup,  subject  to  modifica- 
tion. In  1970  special  tribunals,  the  National  Security  Courts 
(NSCs),  were  set  up  as  the  judicial  arm  of  the  SRC.  Using  a  mili- 
tary attorney  as  prosecutor,  the  courts  operated  outside  the  ordi- 
nary legal  system  as  watchdogs  against  activities  considered  to  be 
counterrevolutionary.  The  first  cases  that  the  courts  dealt  with  in- 
volved Shermaarke's  assassination  and  charges  of  corruption  leveled 
by  the  SRC  against  members  of  the  democratic  regime.  The  NSC 
subsequently  heard  cases  with  and  without  political  content.  A 


38 


Historical  Setting 


uniform  civil  code  introduced  in  1973  replaced  predecessor  laws 
inherited  from  the  Italians  and  British  and  also  imposed  restric- 
tions on  the  activities  of  sharia  courts.  The  new  regime  subsequently 
extended  the  death  penalty  and  prison  sentences  to  individual 
offenders,  formally  eliminating  collective  responsibility  through  the 
payment  of  diya  (see  Glossary)  or  blood  money  (see  Courts,  ch.  4). 

The  SRC  also  overhauled  local  government,  breaking  up  the 
old  regions  into  smaller  units  as  part  of  a  long-range  decentraliza- 
tion program  intended  to  destroy  the  influence  of  the  traditional 
clan  assemblies  and,  in  the  government's  words,  to  bring  govern- 
ment "closer  to  the  people."  Local  councils,  composed  of  mili- 
tary administrators  and  representatives  appointed  by  the  SRC ,  were 
established  under  the  Ministry  of  Interior  at  the  regional,  district, 
and  village  levels  to  advise  the  government  on  local  conditions  and 
to  expedite  its  directives.  Other  institutional  innovations  included 
the  organization  (under  Soviet  direction)  of  the  National  Security 
Service  (NSS),  directed  initially  at  halting  the  flow  of  profession- 
als and  dissidents  out  of  the  country  and  at  counteracting  attempts 
to  settle  disputes  among  the  clans  by  traditional  means.  The  new- 
ly formed  Ministry  of  Information  and  National  Guidance  set  up 
local  political  education  bureaus  to  carry  the  government's  mes- 
sage to  the  people  and  used  Somalia's  print  and  broadcast  media 
for  the  "success  of  the  socialist,  revolutionary  road."  A  censor- 
ship board,  appointed  by  the  ministry,  tailored  information  to  SRC 
guidelines. 

The  SRC  took  its  toughest  political  stance  in  the  campaign  to 
break  down  the  solidarity  of  the  lineage  groups.  Tribalism  was  con- 
demned as  the  most  serious  impediment  to  national  unity.  Siad 
Barre  denounced  tribalism  in  a  wider  context  as  a  "disease"  ob- 
structing development  not  only  in  Somalia,  but  also  throughout 
the  Third  World.  The  government  meted  out  prison  terms  and 
fines  for  a  broad  category  of  proscribed  activities  classified  as  tribal- 
ism. Traditional  headmen,  whom  the  democratic  government  had 
paid  a  stipend,  were  replaced  by  reliable  local  dignitaries  known 
as  "peacekeepers"  (nabod  doan) ,  appointed  by  Mogadishu  to  repre- 
sent government  interests.  Community  identification  rather  than 
lineage  affiliation  was  forcefully  advocated  at  orientation  centers 
set  up  in  every  district  as  the  foci  of  local  political  and  social  ac- 
tivity. For  example,  the  SRC  decreed  that  all  marriage  ceremo- 
nies should  occur  at  an  orientation  center.  Siad  Barre  presided  over 
these  ceremonies  from  time  to  time  and  contrasted  the  benefits  of 
socialism  to  the  evils  he  associated  with  tribalism. 

To  increase  production  and  control  over  the  nomads,  the  govern- 
ment resettled  140,000  nomadic  pastoralists  in  farming  communities 


39 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

and  in  coastal  towns,  where  the  erstwhile  herders  were  encouraged 
to  engage  in  agriculture  and  fishing.  By  dispersing  the  nomads  and 
severing  their  ties  with  the  land  to  which  specific  clans  made  col- 
lective claim,  the  government  may  also  have  undercut  clan  solidar- 
ity. In  many  instances,  real  improvement  in  the  living  conditions 
of  resettled  nomads  was  evident,  but  despite  government  efforts 
to  eliminate  it,  clan  consciousness  as  well  as  a  desire  to  return  to 
the  nomadic  life  persisted.  Concurrent  SRC  attempts  to  improve 
the  status  of  Somali  women  were  unpopular  in  a  traditional  Mus- 
lim society,  despite  Siad  Barre's  argument  that  such  reforms  were 
consonant  with  Islamic  principles. 

Challenges  to  the  Regime 

The  SRC  announced  on  two  occasions  that  it  had  discovered 
plotters  in  the  act  of  initiating  coup  attempts.  Both  instances  in- 
volved SRC  members.  In  April  1970,  Qporsheel,  the  first  vice  presi- 
dent, was  arrested  and  charged  with  treason.  Qporsheel  represented 
the  more  conservative  police  and  army  elements  and  thus  opposed 
the  socialist  orientation  of  the  majority  of  SRC  members.  He  was 
convicted  of  treason  in  a  trial  before  the  National  Security  Court 
and  sentenced  to  a  prison  term. 

In  May  1971,  the  second  vice  president,  Major  General  Ma- 
hammad  Ainanche,  and  a  fellow  SRC  member,  Soviet-trained 
Lieutenant  Colonel  Salah  Gaveire  Kedie,  who  had  served  as  head 
of  the  Ministry  of  Defense  and  later  as  secretary  of  state  for  com- 
munications, were  arrested  along  with  several  other  army  officers 
for  plotting  Siad  Barre's  assassination.  The  conspirators,  who  had 
sought  the  support  of  clans  that  had  lost  influence  in  the  1969  over- 
throw of  the  democratic  regime,  appeared  to  have  been  motivated 
by  personal  rivalries  rather  than  by  ideology.  Accused  of  conspir- 
ing to  assassinate  the  president,  the  two  key  figures  in  the  plot  and 
another  army  officer  were  executed  after  a  lengthy  trial. 

By  1974  the  SRC  felt  sufficiently  secure  to  release  Qporsheel  and 
most  of  the  leaders  of  the  democratic  regime  who  had  been  detained 
since  the  1969  coup.  Igaal  and  four  other  former  ministers  were 
excepted  from  the  amnesty,  however,  and  were  sentenced  to  long 
prison  terms.  Igaal  received  thirty  years  for  embezzlement  and  con- 
spiracy against  the  state. 

Siad  Barre  and  Scientific  Socialism 

Somalia's  adherence  to  socialism  became  official  on  the  first  an- 
niversary of  the  military  coup  when  Siad  Barre  proclaimed  that 
Somalia  was  a  socialist  state,  despite  the  fact  that  the  country  had 
no  history  of  class  conflict  in  the  Marxist  sense.  For  purposes  of 


40 


Statue  of  socialist  workers,  Mogadishu,  erected  in  the  1970s 

Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 


41 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Marxist  analysis,  therefore,  tribalism  was  equated  with  class  in  a 
society  struggling  to  liberate  itself  from  distinctions  imposed  by  line- 
age group  affiliation.  At  the  time,  Siad  Barre  explained  that  the 
official  ideology  consisted  of  three  elements:  his  own  conception 
of  community  development  based  on  the  principle  of  self-reliance, 
a  form  of  socialism  based  on  Marxist  principles,  and  Islam.  These 
were  subsumed  under  scientific  socialism,  although  such  a  defini- 
tion was  at  variance  with  the  Soviet  and  Chinese  models  to  which 
reference  was  frequently  made. 

The  theoretical  underpinning  of  the  state  ideology  combined 
aspects  of  the  Quran  with  the  influences  of  Marx,  Lenin,  Mao, 
and  Mussolini,  but  Siad  Barre  was  pragmatic  in  its  application. 
"Socialism  is  not  a  religion,"  he  explained;  "it  is  a  political  prin- 
ciple" to  organize  government  and  manage  production.  Somalia's 
alignment  with  communist  states,  coupled  with  its  proclaimed  ad- 
herence to  scientific  socialism,  led  to  frequent  accusations  that  the 
country  had  become  a  Soviet  satellite.  For  all  the  rhetoric  extoll- 
ing scientific  socialism,  however,  genuine  Marxist  sympathies  were 
not  deep-rooted  in  Somalia.  But  the  ideology  was  acknowledged — 
partly  in  view  of  the  country's  economic  and  military  dependence 
on  the  Soviet  Union — as  the  most  convenient  peg  on  which  to  hang 
a  revolution  introduced  through  a  military  coup  that  had  supplanted 
a  Western-oriented  parliamentary  democracy. 

More  important  than  Marxist  ideology  to  the  popular  acceptance 
of  the  revolutionary  regime  in  the  early  1970s  were  the  personal 
power  of  Siad  Barre  and  the  image  he  projected.  Styled  the  "Vic- 
torious Leader"  (Guulwaadde),  Siad  Barre  fostered  the  growth  of 
a  personality  cult.  Portraits  of  him  in  the  company  of  Marx  and 
Lenin  festooned  the  streets  on  public  occasions.  The  epigrams,  ex- 
hortations, and  advice  of  the  paternalistic  leader  who  had  synthe- 
sized Marx  with  Islam  and  had  found  a  uniquely  Somali  path  to 
socialist  revolution  were  widely  distributed  in  Siad  Barre 's  little 
blue-and-white  book.  Despite  the  revolutionary  regime's  intention 
to  stamp  out  clan  politics,  the  government  was  commonly  referred 
to  by  the  code  name  MOD.  This  acronym  stood  for  Mareehaan 
(Siad  Barre's  clan),  Ogaden  (the  clan  of  Siad  Barre's  mother),  and 
Dulbahante  (the  clan  of  Siad  Barre's  son-in-law,  Colonel  Ahmad 
Sulaymaan  Abdullah,  who  headed  the  NSS).  These  were  the  three 
clans  whose  members  formed  the  government's  inner  circle.  In 
1975,  for  example,  ten  of  the  twenty  members  of  the  SRC  were 
from  the  Daarood  clan-family,  of  which  these  three  clans  were  a 
part;  the  Digil  and  Rahanwayn,  the  sedentary  interriverine  clan- 
families,  were  totally  unrepresented. 


42 


Historical  Setting 


The  Language  and  Literacy  Issue 

One  of  the  principal  objectives  of  the  revolutionary  regime  was 
the  adoption  of  a  standard  orthography  of  the  Somali  language. 
Such  a  system  would  enable  the  government  to  make  Somali  the 
country's  official  language.  Since  independence  Italian  and  En- 
glish had  served  as  the  languages  of  administration  and  instruc- 
tion in  Somalia's  schools.  All  government  documents  had  been 
published  in  the  two  European  languages.  Indeed,  it  had  been  con- 
sidered necessary  that  certain  civil  service  posts  of  national  impor- 
tance be  held  by  two  officials,  one  proficient  in  English  and  the 
other  in  Italian.  During  the  Husseen  and  Igaal  governments,  when 
a  number  of  English-speaking  northerners  were  put  in  prominent 
positions,  English  had  dominated  Italian  in  official  circles  and  had 
even  begun  to  replace  it  as  a  medium  of  instruction  in  southern 
schools.  Arabic — or  a  heavily  arabized  Somali — also  had  been  wide- 
ly used  in  cultural  and  commercial  areas  and  in  Islamic  schools 
and  courts.  Religious  traditionalists  and  supporters  of  Somalia's 
integration  into  the  Arab  world  had  advocated  that  Arabic  be  adopt- 
ed as  the  official  language,  with  Somali  as  a  vernacular. 

A  few  months  after  independence,  the  Somali  Language  Com- 
mittee was  appointed  to  investigate  the  best  means  of  writing  Soma- 
li. The  committee  considered  nine  scripts,  including  Arabic,  Latin, 
and  various  indigenous  scripts.  Its  report,  issued  in  1962,  favored 
the  Latin  script,  which  the  committee  regarded  as  the  best  suited 
to  represent  the  phonemic  structure  of  Somali  and  flexible  enough 
to  be  adjusted  for  the  dialects.  Facility  with  a  Latin  system, 
moreover,  offered  obvious  advantages  to  those  who  sought  higher 
education  outside  the  country.  Modern  printing  equipment  would 
also  be  more  easily  and  reasonably  available  for  Latin  type.  Exist- 
ing Somali  grammars  prepared  by  foreign  scholars,  although  out- 
dated for  modern  teaching  methods,  would  give  some  initial 
advantage  in  the  preparation  of  teaching  materials.  Disagreement 
had  been  so  intense  among  opposing  factions,  however,  that  no 
action  was  taken  to  adopt  a  standard  script,  although  successive 
governments  continued  to  reiterate  their  intention  to  resolve  the 
issue. 

On  coming  to  power,  the  SRC  made  clear  that  it  viewed  the 
official  use  of  foreign  languages,  of  which  only  a  relatively  small 
fraction  of  the  population  had  an  adequate  working  knowledge, 
as  a  threat  to  national  unity,  contributing  to  the  stratification  of 
society  on  the  basis  of  language.  In  1971  the  SRC  revived  the  Somali 
Language  Committee  and  instructed  it  to  prepare  textbooks  for 
schools  and  adult  education  programs,  a  national  grammar,  and 


43 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

a  new  Somali  dictionary.  However,  no  decision  was  made  at  the 
time  concerning  the  use  of  a  particular  script,  and  each  member 
of  the  committee  worked  in  the  one  with  which  he  was  familiar. 
The  understanding  was  that,  upon  adoption  of  a  standard  script, 
all  materials  would  be  immediately  transcribed. 

On  the  third  anniversary  of  the  1969  coup,  the  SRC  announced 
that  a  Latin  script  had  been  adopted  as  the  standard  script  to  be 
used  throughout  Somalia  beginning  January  1,  1973.  As  a  prereq- 
uisite for  continued  government  service,  all  officials  were  given  three 
months  (later  extended  to  six  months)  to  learn  the  new  script  and 
to  become  proficient  in  it.  During  1973  educational  material  writ- 
ten in  the  standard  orthography  was  introduced  in  elementary 
schools  and  by  1975  was  also  being  used  in  secondary  and  higher 
education. 

Somalia's  literacy  rate  was  estimated  at  only  5  percent  in  1972. 
After  adopting  the  new  script,  the  SRC  launched  a  "cultural  revo- 
lution" aimed  at  making  the  entire  population  literate  in  two  years. 
The  first  part  of  the  massive  literacy  campaign  was  carried  out  in 
a  series  of  three-month  sessions  in  urban  and  rural  sedentary  areas 
and  reportedly  resulted  in  several  hundred  thousand  people  learn- 
ing to  read  and  write.  As  many  as  8,000  teachers  were  recruited, 
mostly  among  government  employees  and  members  of  the  armed 
forces,  to  conduct  the  program. 

The  campaign  in  settled  areas  was  followed  by  preparations  for 
a  major  effort  among  the  nomads  that  got  underway  in  August 
1974.  The  program  in  the  countryside  was  carried  out  by  more 
than  20,000  teachers,  half  of  whom  were  secondary  school  students 
whose  classes  were  suspended  for  the  duration  of  the  school  year. 
The  rural  program  also  compelled  a  privileged  class  of  urban  youth 
to  share  the  hardships  of  the  nomadic  pastoralists.  Although  affected 
by  the  onset  of  a  severe  drought,  the  program  appeared  to  have 
achieved  substantial  results  in  the  field  in  a  short  period  of  time 
(see  Language  and  Education,  ch.  2).  Nevertheless,  the  UN  esti- 
mate of  Somalia's  literacy  rate  in  1990  was  only  24  percent. 

Creation  of  the  Somali  Revolutionary  Socialist  Party 

One  of  the  SRC's  first  acts  was  to  prohibit  the  existence  of  any 
political  association.  Under  Soviet  pressure  to  create  a  communist 
party  structure  to  replace  Somalia's  military  regime,  Siad  Barre 
had  announced  as  early  as  1971  the  SRC's  intention  to  establish 
a  one-party  state.  The  SRC  already  had  begun  organizing  what 
was  described  as  a  "vanguard  of  the  revolution"  composed  of  mem- 
bers of  a  socialist  elite  drawn  from  the  military  and  the  civilian 
sectors.  The  National  Public  Relations  Office  (retitled  the  National 


44 


Historical  Setting 


Political  Office  in  1973)  was  formed  to  propagate  scientific  social- 
ism with  the  support  of  the  Ministry  of  Information  and  National 
Guidance  through  orientation  centers  that  had  been  built  around 
the  country,  generally  as  local  self-help  projects. 

The  SRC  convened  a  congress  of  the  Somali  Revolutionary  So- 
cialist Party  (SRSP)  in  June  1976  and  voted  to  establish  the 
Supreme  Council  as  the  new  party's  central  committee.  The  council 
included  the  nineteen  officers  who  composed  the  SRC,  in  addi- 
tion to  civilian  advisers,  heads  of  ministries,  and  other  public  figures. 
Civilians  accounted  for  a  majority  of  the  Supreme  Council's 
seventy-three  members.  On  July  1,  1976,  the  SRC  dissolved  it- 
self, formally  vesting  power  over  the  government  in  the  SRSP  un- 
der the  direction  of  the  Supreme  Council. 

In  theory  the  SRSP's  creation  marked  the  end  of  military  rule, 
but  in  practice  real  power  over  the  party  and  the  government  re- 
mained with  the  small  group  of  military  officers  who  had  been  most 
influential  in  the  SRC.  Decision-making  power  resided  with  the 
new  party's  politburo,  a  select  committee  of  the  Supreme  Council 
that  was  composed  of  five  former  SRC  members,  including  Siad 
Barre  and  his  son-in-law,  NSS  chief  Abdullah.  Siad  Barre  was  also 
secretary  general  of  the  SRSP,  as  well  as  chairman  of  the  Council 
of  Ministers,  which  had  replaced  the  CSS  in  1981.  Military  in- 
fluence in  the  new  government  increased  with  the  assignment  of 
former  SRC  members  to  additional  ministerial  posts.  The  MOD 
circle  also  had  wide  representation  on  the  Supreme  Council  and 
in  other  party  organs.  Upon  the  establishment  of  the  SRSP,  the 
National  Political  Office  was  abolished;  local  party  leadership  as- 
sumed its  functions. 

Somalia's  Difficult  Decade,  1980-90 
Entrenching  Siad  Barre's  Personal  Rule 

The  Ogaden  War  of  1977-78  between  Somalia  and  Ethiopia  and 
the  consequent  refugee  influx  forced  Somalia  to  depend  for  its  eco- 
nomic survival  on  humanitarian  handouts  (see  The  Ogaden  War: 
Performance  and  Implications  of  Defeat,  ch.  5).  Domestically,  the 
lost  war  produced  a  national  mood  of  depression.  Organized  op- 
position groups  began  to  emerge,  and  in  dealing  with  them  Siad 
Barre  intensified  his  political  repression,  using  jailings,  torture,  and 
summary  executions  of  dissidents  and  collective  punishment  of  clans 
thought  to  have  engaged  in  organized  resistance. 

Siad  Barre's  new  Western  friends,  especially  the  United  States, 
which  had  replaced  the  Soviet  Union  as  the  main  user  of  the  naval 
facilities  at  Berbera,  turned  out  to  be  reluctant  allies.  Although 


45 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

prepared  to  help  the  Siad  Barre  regime  economically  through  direct 
grants,  World  Bank  (see  Glossary)-sponsored  loans,  and  relaxed 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary)  regulations, 
the  United  States  hesitated  to  offer  Somalia  more  military  aid  than 
was  essential  to  maintain  internal  security.  The  amount  of  United 
States  military  and  economic  aid  to  the  regime  was  US$34  million 
in  1984;  by  1987  this  amount  had  dwindled  to  about  US$8.7  mil- 
lion, a  fraction  of  the  regime's  requested  allocation  of  US$47  mil- 
lion (see  Foreign  Military  Assistance,  ch.  5).  Western  countries 
were  also  pressuring  the  regime  to  liberalize  economic  and  politi- 
cal life  and  to  renounce  historical  Somali  claims  on  territory  in 
Kenya  and  Ethiopia.  In  response,  Siad  Barre  held  parliamentary 
elections  in  December  1979.  A  "people's  parliament"  was  elect- 
ed, all  of  whose  members  belonged  to  the  government  party,  the 
SRSP.  Following  the  elections,  Siad  Barre  again  reshuffled  the  cabi- 
net, abolishing  the  positions  of  his  three  vice  presidents.  This  ac- 
tion was  followed  by  another  reshuffling  in  October  1980,  in  which 
the  old  Supreme  Revolutionary  Council  was  revived.  The  move 
resulted  in  three  parallel  and  overlapping  bureaucratic  structures 
within  one  administration:  the  party's  politburo,  which  exercised 
executive  powers  through  its  Central  Committee,  the  Council  of 
Minsters,  and  the  SRC.  The  resulting  confusion  of  functions 
within  the  administration  left  decision  making  solely  in  Siad  Barre 's 
hands. 

In  February  1982,  Siad  Barre  visited  the  United  States.  He  had 
responded  to  growing  domestic  criticism  by  releasing  from  deten- 
tion two  leading  political  prisoners  of  conscience,  former  premier 
Igaal  and  former  police  commander  Abshir,  both  of  whom  had  lan- 
guished in  prison  since  1969.  On  June  7,  1982,  apparently  wish- 
ing to  prove  that  he  alone  ruled  Somalia,  he  ordered  the  arrest  of 
seventeen  prominent  politicians.  This  development  shook  the  "old 
establishment"  because  the  arrests  included  Mahammad  Aadan 
Shaykh,  a  prominent  Mareehaan  politician,  detained  for  the  sec- 
ond time;  Umar  Haaji  Masala,  chief  of  staff  of  the  military,  also 
a  Mareehaan;  and  a  former  vice  president  and  a  former  foreign 
minister.  At  the  time  of  detention,  one  official  was  a  member  of 
the  politburo;  the  others  were  members  of  the  Central  Committee 
of  the  SRSP.  The  jailing  of  these  prominent  figures  created  an  at- 
mosphere of  fear,  and  alienated  the  Isaaq,  Majeerteen,  and  Hawiye 
clans,  whose  disaffection  and  consequent  armed  resistance  were 
to  lead  to  the  toppling  of  the  Siad  Barre  regime. 

The  regime's  insecurity  was  considerably  increased  by  repeat- 
ed forays  across  the  Somali  border  in  the  Mudug  (central)  and  Boo- 
rama  (northwest)  areas  by  a  combination  of  Somali  dissidents  and 


46 


Historical  Setting 


Ethiopian  army  units.  In  mid-July  1982,  Somali  dissidents  with 
Ethiopian  air  support  invaded  Somalia  in  the  center,  threatening 
to  split  the  country  in  two.  The  invaders  managed  to  capture  the 
Somali  border  towns  of  Balumbale  and  Galdogob,  northwest  of 
the  Mudug  regional  capital  of  Galcaio.  Siad  Barre's  regime  declared 
a  state  of  emergency  in  the  war  zone  and  appealed  for  Western 
aid  to  help  repel  the  invasion.  The  United  States  government 
responded  by  speeding  deliveries  of  light  arms  already  promised. 
In  addition,  the  initially  pledged  US$45  million  in  economic  and 
military  aid  was  increased  to  US$80  million.  The  new  arms  were 
not  used  to  repel  the  Ethiopians,  however,  but  to  repress  Siad 
Barre's  domestic  opponents. 

Although  the  Siad  Barre  regime  received  some  verbal  support 
at  the  League  of  Arab  States  (Arab  League)  summit  conference 
in  September  1982,  and  Somali  units  participated  in  war  games 
with  the  United  States  Rapid  Deployment  Force  in  Berbera,  the 
revolutionary  government's  position  continued  to  erode.  In  De- 
cember 1984,  Siad  Barre  sought  to  broaden  his  political  base  by 
amending  the  constitution.  One  amendment  extended  the  presi- 
dent's term  from  six  to  seven  years.  Another  amendment  stipulat- 
ed that  the  president  was  to  be  elected  by  universal  suffrage  (Siad 
Barre  always  received  99  percent  of  the  vote  in  such  elections)  rather 
than  by  the  National  Assembly.  The  assembly  rubber-stamped  these 
amendments,  thereby  presiding  over  its  own  disenfranchisement. 

On  the  diplomatic  front,  the  regime  undertook  some  fence  mend- 
ing. An  accord  was  signed  with  Kenya  in  December  1984  in  which 
Somalia  "permanently"  renounced  its  historical  territorial  claims, 
and  relations  between  the  two  countries  thereafter  began  to  im- 
prove. This  diplomatic  gain  was  offset,  however,  by  the  "scan- 
dal" of  South  African  foreign  minister  Roelof  "Pik"  Botha's  secret 
visit  to  Mogadishu  the  same  month,  in  which  South  Africa  promised 
arms  to  Somalia  in  return  for  landing  rights  for  South  African 
Airways. 

Complicating  matters  for  the  regime,  at  the  end  of  1984  the 
Western  Somali  Liberation  Front  (WSLF)  (a  guerrilla  organiza- 
tion based  in  Ethiopia  seeking  to  free  the  Ogaden  and  unite  it  with 
Somalia)  announced  a  temporary  halt  in  military  operations  against 
Ethiopia.  This  decision  was  impelled  by  the  drought  then  ravag- 
ing the  Ogaden  and  by  a  serious  split  within  the  WSLF,  a  number 
of  whose  leaders  claimed  that  their  struggle  for  self-determination 
had  been  used  by  Mogadishu  to  advance  its  expansionist  policies. 
These  elements  said  they  now  favored  autonomy  based  on  a  fed- 
eral union  with  Ethiopia.  This  development  removed  Siad  Barre's 


47 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

option  to  foment  anti-Ethiopian  activity  in  the  Ogaden  in  retalia- 
tion for  Ethiopian  aid  to  domestic  opponents  of  his  regime. 

To  overcome  its  diplomatic  isolation,  Somalia  resumed  relations 
with  Libya  in  April  1985.  Recognition  had  been  withdrawn  in  1977 
in  response  to  Libyan  support  of  Ethiopia  during  the  Ogaden  War. 
Also  in  early  1985,  Somalia  participated  in  a  meeting  of  EEC  and 
UN  officials  with  the  foreign  ministers  of  several  northeast  Afri- 
can states  to  discuss  regional  cooperation  under  a  planned  new 
authority,  the  Inter-Governmental  Authority  on  Drought  and  De- 
velopment (IGADD).  Formed  in  January  1986  and  headquartered 
in  Djibouti,  IGADD  brought  together  Djibouti,  Ethiopia,  Kenya, 
Sudan,  and  Uganda  in  addition  to  Somalia.  In  January  1986,  un- 
der the  auspices  of  IGADD,  Siad  Barre  met  Ethiopian  leader  Men- 
gistu  Haile-Mariam  in  Djibouti  to  discuss  the  "provisional" 
administrative  line  (the  undemarcated  boundary)  between  Ethio- 
pia and  Somalia.  They  agreed  to  hold  further  meetings,  which  took 
place  on  and  off  throughout  1986-87.  Although  Siad  Barre  and 
Mengistu  agreed  to  exchange  prisoners  taken  in  the  Ogaden  War 
and  to  cease  aiding  each  other's  domestic  opponents,  these  plans 
were  never  implemented.  In  August  1986,  Somalia  held  joint  mili- 
tary exercises  with  the  United  States. 

Diplomatic  setbacks  also  occurred  in  1986,  however.  In  Sep- 
tember, Somali  foreign  minister  Abdirahmaan  Jaama  Barre,  the 
president's  brother,  accused  the  Somali  Service  of  the  British  Broad- 
casting Corporation  of  anti-Somali  propaganda.  The  charge  precipi- 
tated a  diplomatic  rift  with  Britain.  The  regime  also  entered  into 
a  dispute  with  Amnesty  International,  which  charged  the  Somali 
regime  with  blatant  violations  of  human  rights.  Wholesale  human 
rights  violations  documented  by  Amnesty  International,  and  sub- 
sequently by  Africa  Watch,  prompted  the  United  States  Congress 
by  1987  to  make  deep  cuts  in  aid  to  Somalia  (see  Relations  with 
the  United  States,  ch.  4). 

Economically,  the  regime  was  repeatedly  pressured  between  1983 
and  1987  by  the  IMF,  the  United  Nations  Development  Pro- 
gramme, and  the  World  Bank  to  liberalize  its  economy.  Speci- 
fically, Somalia  was  urged  to  create  a  free-market  system  and  to 
devalue  the  Somali  shilling  (for  value  of  the  shilling — see  Glossary) 
so  that  its  official  rate  would  reflect  its  true  value  (see  From  Scien- 
tific Socialism  to  "IMF-ism,"  1981-90,  ch.  3). 

Siad  Barre's  Repressive  Measures 

Faced  with  shrinking  popularity  and  an  armed  and  organized 
domestic  resistance,  Siad  Barre  unleashed  a  reign  of  terror  against 
the  Majeerteen,  the  Hawiye,  and  the  Isaaq,  carried  out  by  the  Red 


48 


Historical  Setting 


Berets  (Duub  Cas),  a  dreaded  elite  unit  recruited  from  among  the 
president's  Mareehaan  clansmen.  Thus,  byihe  beginning  of  1986 
Siad  Barre's  grip  on  power  seemed  secure,  despite  the  host  of 
problems  facing  the  regime.  The  president  received  a  severe  blow 
from  an  unexpected  quarter,  however.  On  the  evening  of  May  23, 
he  was  severely  injured  in  an  automobile  accident.  Astonishingly, 
although  at  the  time  he  was  in  his  early  seventies  and  suffered  from 
chronic  diabetes,  Siad  Barre  recovered  sufficiently  to  resume  the 
reins  of  government  following  a  month's  recuperation.  But  the  ac- 
cident unleashed  a  power  struggle  among  senior  army  comman- 
dants, elements  of  the  president's  Mareehaan  clan,  and  related 
factions,  whose  infighting  practically  brought  the  country  to  a  stand- 
still. Broadly,  two  groups  contended  for  power:  a  constitutional 
faction  and  a  clan  faction.  The  constitutional  faction  was  led  by 
the  senior  vice  president,  Brigadier  General  Mahammad  Ali 
Samantar;  the  second  vice  president,  Major  General  Husseen  Kul- 
miye;  and  generals  Ahmad  Sulaymaan  Abdullah  and  Ahmad  Ma- 
hamuud  Faarah.  The  four,  together  with  president  Siad  Barre, 
constituted  the  politburo  of  the  SRSP. 

Opposed  to  the  constitutional  group  were  elements  from  the  presi- 
dent's  Mareehaan  clan,  especially  members  of  his  immediate 
family,  including  his  brother,  Abdirahmaan  Jaama  Barre;  the  presi- 
dent's son,  Colonel  Masleh  Siad;  and  the  formidable  Mama  Khadi- 
ija,  Siad  Barre's  senior  wife.  By  some  accounts,  Mama  Khadiija 
ran  her  own  intelligence  network,  had  well-placed  political  con- 
tacts, and  oversaw  a  large  group  who  had  prospered  under  her 
patronage. 

In  November  1986,  the  dreaded  Red  Berets  unleashed  a  cam- 
paign of  terror  and  intimidation  on  a  frightened  citizenry.  Mean- 
while, the  ministries  atrophied,  and  the  army's  officer  corps  was 
purged  of  competent  career  officers  on  suspicion  of  insufficient 
loyalty  to  the  president.  In  addition,  ministers  and  bureaucrats  plun- 
dered what  was  left  of  the  national  treasury  after  it  had  been  repeat- 
edly skimmed  by  the  top  family. 

The  same  month,  the  SRSP  held  its  third  congress.  The  Cen- 
tral Committee  was  reshuffled,  and  the  president  was  nominated 
as  the  only  candidate  for  another  seven-year  term.  Thus,  with  a 
weak  opposition  divided  along  clan  lines,  which  he  skillfully  ex- 
ploited, Siad  Barre  seemed  invulnerable  well  into  1988.  The  re- 
gime might  have  lingered  indefinitely  but  for  the  wholesale 
disaffection  engendered  by  the  genocidal  policies  carried  out  against 
important  lineages  of  Somali  kinship  groupings.  These  actions  were 
waged  first  against  the  Majeerteen  clan  (of  the  Daarood  clan- 
family),  then  against  the  Isaaq  clans  of  the  north,  and  finally  against 


49 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

the  Hawiye,  who  occupied  the  strategic  central  area  of  the  coun- 
try, which  included  the  capital.  The  disaffection  of  the  Hawiye  and 
their  subsequent  organized  armed  resistance  eventually  caused  the 
regime's  downfall. 

Persecution  of  the  Majeerteen 

In  the  aftermath  of  the  Ogaden  debacle,  a  group  of  disgruntled 
army  officers  attempted  a  coup  d'etat  against  the  regime  in  April 

1978.  Their  leader  was  Colonel  Mahammad  Shaykh  Usmaan,  a 
member  of  the  Majeerteen  clan.  The  coup  failed  and  seventeen 
alleged  ringleaders,  including  Usmaan,  were  summarily  execut- 
ed. All  but  one  of  the  executed  were  of  the  Majeerteen  clan.  One 
of  the  plotters,  Lieutenant  Colonel  Abdillaahi  Yuusuf  Ahmad,  a 
Majeerteen,  escaped  to  Ethiopia  and  founded  an  anti-Siad  Barre 
organization  initially  called  the  Somali  Salvation  Front  (SSF;  later 
the  Somali  Salvation  Democratic  Front,  SSDF)  (see  Sources  of  Op- 
position, ch.  5).  During  their  preeminence  in  the  civilian  regimes, 
the  Majeerteen  had  alienated  other  clans.  Thus,  when  Siad  Barre 
sent  the  Red  Berets  against  the  Majeerteen  in  Mudug  Region  in 

1979,  other  clans  declined  to  support  them. 

The  Red  Berets  systematically  smashed  the  small  reservoirs  in 
the  area  around  Galcaio  so  as  to  deny  water  to  the  Umar  Ma- 
hamuud  Majeerteen  sublineages  and  their  herds.  In  May  and  June 
1979,  more  than  2,000  Umar  Mahamuud,  the  Majeerteen  sub- 
lineage  of  Colonel  Ahmad,  died  of  thirst  in  the  waterless  area  north- 
east of  Galcaio,  Garoowe,  and  Jerriiban.  In  Galcaio,  members  of 
the  Victory  Pioneers,  the  urban  militia  notorious  for  harassing 
civilians,  raped  large  numbers  of  Majeerteen  women.  In  addition, 
the  clan  lost  an  estimated  50,000  camels,  10,000  cattle,  and  100,000 
sheep  and  goats. 

Oppression  of  the  Isaaq 

The  Isaaq  as  a  clan-family  occupy  the  northern  portion  of  the 
country.  Three  major  cities  are  predominantly,  if  not  exclusively, 
Isaaq:  Hargeysa,  the  second  largest  city  in  Somalia  until  it  was 
razed  during  disturbances  in  1988;  Burao  in  the  interior,  also  de- 
stroyed by  the  military;  and  the  port  of  Berbera. 

Formed  in  London  on  April  6,  1981 ,  by  400  to  500  Isaaq  emigres, 
the  Somali  National  Movement  (SNM)  remained  an  Isaaq  clan- 
family  organization  dedicated  to  ridding  the  country  of  Siad  Barre. 
The  Isaaq  felt  deprived  both  as  a  clan  and  as  a  region,  and  Isaaq 
outbursts  against  the  central  government  had  occurred  sporadically 
since  independence.  The  SNM  launched  a  military  campaign  in 
1988,  capturing  Burao  on  May  27  and  part  of  Hargeysa  on  May  31 . 


50 


Historical  Setting 


Government  forces  bombarded  the  towns  heavily  in  June,  forcing 
the  SNM  to  withdraw  and  causing  more  than  300,000  Isaaq  to  flee 
to  Ethiopia. 

The  military  regime  conducted  savage  reprisals  against  the  Isaaq. 
The  same  methods  were  used  as  against  the  Majeerteen — 
destruction  of  water  wells  and  grazing  grounds  and  raping  of  wom- 
en. An  estimated  5,000  Isaaq  were  killed  between  May  27  and  the 
end  of  December  1988.  About  4,000  died  in  the  fighting,  but  1,000, 
including  women  and  children,  were  alleged  to  have  been  bayoneted 
to  death. 

Harrying  of  the  Hawiye 

The  Hawiye  occupy  the  south  central  portions  of  Somalia  (see 
Samaal,  ch.  2).  The  capital  of  Mogadishu  is  located  in  the  coun- 
try of  the  Abgaal,  a  Hawiye  subclan.  In  numbers  the  Hawiye  in 
Somalia  are  roughly  comparable  to  the  Isaaq,  occupying  a  distant 
second  place  to  the  Daarood  clans.  Southern  Somalia's  first  prime 
minister  during  the  UN  trusteeship  period,  Abdullaahi  Iise,  was 
a  Hawiye;  so  was  the  trust  territory's  first  president,  Aadan  Ab- 
dullah Usmaan.  The  first  commander  of  the  Somali  army,  General 
Daauud,  was  also  a  Hawiye.  Although  the  Hawiye  had  not  held 
any  major  office  since  independence,  they  had  occupied  impor- 
tant administrative  positions  in  the  bureaucracy  and  in  the  top  army 
command. 

In  the  late  1980s,  disaffection  with  the  regime  set  in  among  the 
Hawiye,  who  felt  increasingly  marginalized  in  the  Siad  Barre  re- 
gime. From  the  town  of  Beledweyne  in  the  central  valley  of  the 
Shabeelle  River  to  Buulobarde,  to  Giohar,  and  in  Mogadishu,  the 
clan  was  subjected  to  ruthless  assault.  Government  atrocities  in- 
flicted on  the  Hawiye  were  considered  comparable  in  scale  to  those 
against  the  Majeerteen  and  Isaaq.  By  undertaking  this  assault  on 
the  Hawiye,  Siad  Barre  committed  a  fatal  error.  By  the  end  of  1990, 
he  still  controlled  the  capital  and  adjacent  regions  but  by  alienat- 
ing the  Hawiye,  Siad  Barre  turned  his  last  stronghold  into  enemy 
territory. 

Faced  with  saboteurs  by  day  and  sniper  fire  by  night,  Siad  Barre 
ordered  remaining  units  of  the  badly  demoralized  Red  Berets  to 
massacre  civilians.  By  1989  torture  and  murder  became  the  order 
of  the  day  in  Mogadishu.  On  July  9,  1989,  Somalia's  Italian-born 
Roman  Catholic  bishop,  Salvatore  Colombo,  was  gunned  down 
in  his  church  in  Mogadishu  by  an  unknown  assassin.  The  order 
to  murder  the  bishop,  an  outspoken  critic  of  the  regime,  was  widely 
believed  to  have  had  come  from  the  presidential  palace. 


51 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

On  the  heels  of  the  bishop's  murder  came  the  infamous  July  14 
massacre,  when  the  Red  Berets  slaughtered  450  Muslims  demon- 
strating against  the  arrest  of  their  spiritual  leaders.  More  than  2,000 
were  seriously  injured.  On  July  15,  forty-seven  people,  mainly  from 
the  Isaaq  clan,  were  taken  to  Jasiira  Beach  west  of  the  city  and 
summarily  executed.  The  July  massacres  prompted  a  shift  in  United 
States  policy  as  the  United  States  began  to  distance  itself  from  Siad 
Barre. 

With  the  loss  of  United  States  support,  the  regime  grew  more 
desperate.  An  anti-Siad  Barre  demonstration  on  July  6,  1990,  at 
a  soccer  match  in  the  main  stadium,  deteriorated  into  a  riot,  caus- 
ing Siad  Barre 's  bodyguard  to  panic  and  open  fire  on  the  demon- 
strators. At  least  sixty-five  people  were  killed.  A  week  later,  while 
the  city  reeled  from  the  impact  of  what  came  to  be  called  the  Sta- 
dia Corna  Affair,  Siad  Barre  sentenced  to  death  46  prominent  mem- 
bers of  the  Manifesto  Group,  a  body  of  1 14  notables  who  had  signed 
a  petition  in  May  calling  for  elections  and  improved  human  rights. 
During  the  contrived  trial  that  resulted  in  the  death  sentences, 
demonstrators  surrounded  the  court  and  activity  in  the  city  came 
to  a  virtual  halt.  On  July  13,  a  shaken  Siad  Barre  dropped  the 
charges  against  the  accused.  As  the  city  celebrated  victory,  Siad 
Barre,  conceding  defeat  for  the  first  time  in  twenty  years,  retreat- 
ed into  his  bunker  at  the  military  barracks  near  the  airport  to  save 
himself  from  the  people's  wrath. 

*    *  * 

Littie  literature  exists  on  the  history  of  Somalia.  In  his  monumen- 
tal three- volume  work,  Somalia:  Scritti  vari  editi  ed  inediti,  Enrico 
Cerulli  provided  the  research  on  which  most  subsequent  writers 
have  relied.  I.M.  Lewis,  the  prolific  dean  of  English-speaking 
Somalists,  offers  a  valuable  survey  in  A  Modern  History  of  Somalia, 
revised  and  updated  in  1988  to  cover  the  1970s  and  early  1980s. 
With  The  Shaping  of  Somali  Society,  Lee  Cassanelli  has  produced  the 
first  book-length  study  of  precolonial  Somali  history. 

An  excellent  reference  work  is  Margaret  Castagno's  Historical 
Dictionary  of  Somalia.  Robert  Hess's  Italian  Colonialism  in  Somalia  offers 
a  detailed  review  of  the  Italian  colonial  period  in  the  south. 

Douglas  Jardine's  The  Mad  Mullah  of  Somaliland  remains  the 
classic  biography  of  Sayyid  Mahammad  Abdille  Hasan,  the  mys- 
tic, poet,  and  warrior  leader  of  the  Somali  dervish  anticolonial 
movement.  Said  S.  Samatar's  Oral  Poetry  and  Somali  Nationalism 
analyzes  Hasan's  poetry  and  assesses  his  nationalist  and  literary 
contributions  to  the  Somali  heritage.  I.M.  Lewis's  A  Pastoral 


52 


Historical  Setting 


Democracy  and  David  D.  Laitin's  Politics,  Language,  and  Thought:  The 
Somali  Experience  stand  as  invaluable  contributions  to  an  understand- 
ing of  the  social  and  cultural  aspects  of  Somali  history.  The  ori- 
gins and  growth  of  Somali  nationalist  sentiment  and  political 
struggles  are  treated  in  Saadia  Touval's  Somali  Nationalism. 

Somali  irredentism  is  treated  in  historical  context  by  John  Drys- 
dale's  The  Somali  Dispute.  Tom  Farer's  War  Clouds  on  the  Horn  of 
Africa  deals  with  the  same  subject  from  a  vantage  point  less  sym- 
pathetic to  Somali  revolutionaries.  I.M.  Lewis  draws  on  his  great 
knowledge  of  Somali  society  and  politics  to  analyze  the  background 
and  initial  consequences  of  the  military  coup  in  the  "The  Politics 
of  the  1969  Somali  Coup,"  whereas  David  Laitin  considers  the 
ongoing  development  of  the  coup  in  "Somalia's  Military  Govern- 
ment and  Scientific  Socialism."  Both  pieces  appear  in  Socialism  in 
Suh-Saharan  Africa. 

Laitin  and  Samatar's  Somalia:  Nation  in  Search  of  a  State  provides 
a  detailed  analysis  of  the  degeneration  of  the  Somali  revolution  into 
a  brutal  dictatorship.  Samatar's  Somalia:  A  Nation  in  Turmoil,  pub- 
lished as  the  Minority  Rights  Group  Report  by  the  London-based 
organization  in  August  1991,  treats  Siad  Barre's  reign  of  terror, 
his  precipitous  fall  from  power,  and  the  collapse  of  the  Somali  state 
into  separate  regions  ruled  by  clan-affiliated  political  groups.  (For 
further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


53 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Somali  nomad,  symbol  of  the  country 's 
predominantly  pastoral  life 


THE  SOMALIS  ARE  A  CULTURALLY,  linguistically,  and 
religiously  homogeneous  people,  who  are  divided  along  clan  lines 
and  sparsely  scattered  over  a  harsh,  dry  land.  There  are  signifi- 
cant distinctions  among  sectors  of  the  population,  related  in  part 
to  variations  in  means  of  livelihood.  In  the  early  1990s,  roughly 
60  percent  of  an  estimated  population  of  more  than  8.4  million 
were  still  nomadic  pastoralists  or  seminomadic  herders,  subject  to 
the  vicissitudes  of  an  arid  climate.  Twenty  to  25  percent  of  the  peo- 
ple were  cultivators,  most  living  in  the  southern  half  of  the  coun- 
try, on  or  between  Somalia's  two  major  rivers,  the  Jubba  and  the 
Shabeelle.  The  remainder  were  town  dwellers,  the  vast  majority 
of  whom  resided  in  Somalia's  capital,  Mogadishu. 

With  the  fall  of  General  Mahammad  Siad  Barre's  regime  on 
January  27,  1991,  and  the  ensuing  internal  warfare  that  resulted 
in  the  disintegration  of  the  Somali  state,  patterns  of  residency 
changed  dramatically.  For  instance,  the  population  of  Mogadishu, 
estimated  at  500,000  in  the  mid-1980s,  witnessed  the  influx  of  thou- 
sands of  refugees.  As  a  result,  Mogadishu  reportedly  had  about 
2  million  inhabitants  in  early  1992.  Throughout  the  country  the 
civil  war,  along  with  the  lawlessness  as  Siad  Barre's  regime  col- 
lapsed and  the  absence  of  functioning  governmental  and  social  in- 
stitutions, produced  a  chaotic  situation. 

Although  95  percent  of  the  population  are  ethnic  Somalis,  shar- 
ing a  common  culture,  in  traditional  society  they  segmented  them- 
selves into  a  hierarchical  system  of  patrilineal  descent  groups,  each 
said  to  originate  with  a  single  male  ancestor.  The  most  compre- 
hensive of  these  groups  were  the  six  clan-families  (see  Glossary). 
Their  constituent  units  were  the  clans  (see  Glossary),  which  in  turn 
were  made  up  of  lineages  (see  Glossary),  which  themselves  were 
further  segmented.  Among  the  sedentary  interriverine  Somalis, 
however,  descent  gave  way  in  part  to  territoriality  as  a  framework 
for  social,  political,  and  economic  organization. 

Membership  in  clans  and  lineages  shaped  the  allocation  of  in- 
dividual rights  and  obligations.  The  principle  of  descent,  however, 
was  modified  (although  rarely  overridden)  by  Somali  heer,  or  tradi- 
tional jurisprudence.  Contracts  or  treaties  bound  specified  descent 
groups  and  their  individual  members  together  for  the  making  of 
war  and  peace  and,  above  all,  for  the  provision  of  compensation 
in  cases  of  homicide  and  injury. 


57 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Somali  social  order  has  been  marked  by  competition  and 
often  by  armed  conflict  between  clans  and  lineages,  even  between 
units  of  the  same  clan-family  or  clan.  Within  each  unit,  Somali 
males  considered  better  warriors,  wiser  arbiters,  or  abler  speakers 
commanded  greater  respect  in  council.  However,  pastoral  Soma- 
lis  looked  down  on  sedentary  ones,  and  both  looked  down  on  non- 
Somali  clients  (see  Glossary)  of  the  sedentary  Somalis  and  members 
of  despised  occupational  groups  such  as  hunters  and  smiths,  who 
made  up,  however,  only  a  very  small  proportion  of  the  population. 

The  segmented  social  order,  with  relatively  minor  modifications, 
was  carried  into  the  independence  period.  In  a  very  poor  country, 
many  Somalis  were  disaffected  by  the  competition  for  power  and 
wealth  that  often  took  the  form  of  shifting  alliances  and  conflicts 
between  greater  and  lesser  clans  and  lineage  segments.  Simultane- 
ously, new  cleavages  emerged  between  educated  urban  dwellers 
who  had  mastered  a  foreign  language  and  the  less- sophisticated 
rural  Somalis. 

Soon  after  the  October  1969  military  coup,  Siad  Barre's  socialist 
government  aimed  an  attack  at  the  traditional  system.  In  princi- 
ple at  least,  his  regime  reduced  the  significance  of  clans  and  lin- 
eages, encouraged  women  to  participate  in  government  and  attend 
school,  and  sanctioned  the  social  equality  of  low-status  groups.  The 
gap  that  had  opened  between  educated  English-  or  Italian- speaking 
Somalis  and  the  rest  of  the  population  was  reduced  somewhat  by 
the  institution  of  a  Somali  script  and  the  designation  of  Somali  as 
the  official  language. 

Siad  Barre's  government  insisted  that  socialism  was  compatible 
with  Islam,  the  religion  of  the  overwhelming  majority  of  Somalis. 
Although  Somalis  had  not  always  conformed  to  the  rigors  of  or- 
thodox Islam,  their  identity  was  bound  up  with  being  Muslim.  With 
few,  if  any,  exceptions,  leaders  of  the  socialist  regime  were  Mus- 
lims and  did  not  attack  religion.  However,  they  also  did  not  hesi- 
tate to  institute  reforms  that  displeased  conservative  Muslim  leaders. 

Despite  government  encouragement  of  change,  clan  and  lin- 
eage remained  important  throughout  Siad  Barre's  rule,  and  Siad 
Barre  remained  in  power  by  manipulating  clans  and  clan  leaders. 
In  fact,  soon  after  the  revolution,  kinship  considerations  and 
nepotism  were  evident  at  the  highest  levels  of  the  regime. 

The  workings  of  the  lineage  system  were  predicated  on  the  soli- 
darity of  the  segments  of  the  same  order  with  one  another  and  the 
relative  equality  of  the  members  of  each  segment.  The  growth  of  the 
state  and  the  development  of  different  degrees  of  wealth  and  access 
to  other  private-sector  resources  caused  an  incipient  stratification 


58 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


that  had  the  potential  to  override  lineage  solidarity  as  it  diminished 
equality. 

Physical  Setting 

Africa's  easternmost  country,  Somalia  has  a  land  area  of  637,540 
square  kilometers,  slightly  less  than  that  of  the  state  of  Texas.  Soma- 
lia occupies  the  tip  of  a  region  commonly  referred  to  as  the  Horn 
of  Africa — because  of  its  resemblance  on  the  map  to  a  rhinoceros's 
horn — that  also  includes  Ethiopia  and  Djibouti. 

Somalia's  terrain  consists  mainly  of  plateaus,  plains,  and  high- 
lands. In  the  far  north,  however,  the  rugged  east-west  ranges  of 
the  Karkaar  Mountains  lie  at  varying  distances  from  the  Gulf  of 
Aden  coast  (see  fig.  3).  The  weather  is  hot  throughout  the  year, 
except  at  the  higher  elevations  in  the  north.  Rainfall  is  sparse,  and 
most  of  Somalia  has  a  semiarid-to-arid  environment  suitable  only 
for  the  nomadic  pastoralism  practiced  by  well  over  half  the  popu- 
lation. Only  in  limited  areas  of  moderate  rainfall  in  the  northwest, 
and  particularly  in  the  southwest,  where  the  country's  two  peren- 
nial rivers  are  found,  is  agriculture  practiced  to  any  extent. 

The  local  geology  suggests  the  presence  of  valuable  mineral 
deposits.  As  of  1992,  however,  only  a  few  significant  sites  had  been 
located,  and  mineral  extraction  played  a  very  minor  role  in  the 
economy  (see  Undeveloped  Sectors,  ch.  3). 

Somalia's  long  coastline  (3,025  kilometers)  has  been  of  impor- 
tance chiefly  in  permitting  trade  with  the  Middle  East  and  the  rest 
of  East  Africa.  The  exploitation  of  the  shore  and  the  continental 
shelf  for  fishing  and  other  purposes  had  barely  begun  by  the  early 
1990s.  Sovereignty  was  claimed  over  territorial  waters  up  to  200 
nautical  miles. 

Climate 

Climate  is  the  primary  factor  in  much  of  Somali  life.  For  the 
large  nomadic  population,  the  timing  and  amount  of  rainfall  are 
crucial  determinants  of  the  adequacy  of  grazing  and  the  prospects 
of  relative  prosperity.  During  droughts  such  as  occurred  during 
1974-75  and  1984-85,  starvation  can  occur.  There  are  some  indi- 
cations that  the  climate  has  become  drier  in  the  last  century  and 
that  the  increase  in  the  number  of  people  and  animals  has  put  a 
growing  burden  on  water  and  vegetation. 

Somalis  recognize  four  seasons,  two  rainy  (gu  and  day)  and  two 
dry  (jiilaal  and  hagaa).  The  gu  rains  begin  in  April  and  last  until 
June,  producing  a  fresh  supply  of  pasture  and  for  a  brief  period 
turning  the  desert  into  a  flowering  garden.  Lush  vegetation  covers 
most  of  the  land,  especially  the  central  grazing  plateau  where  grass 


59 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

grows  tall.  Milk  and  meat  abound,  water  is  plentiful,  and  animals 
do  not  require  much  care.  The  clans,  reprieved  from  four  months' 
drought,  assemble  to  engage  alternately  in  banter  and  poetic  ex- 
change or  in  a  new  cycle  of  hereditary  feuds.  They  also  offer 
sacrifices  to  Allah  and  to  the  founding  clan  ancestors,  whose  bless- 
ings they  seek.  Numerous  social  functions  occur:  marriages  are  con- 
tracted, outstanding  disputes  are  settled  or  exacerbated,  and  a 
person's  age  is  calculated  in  terms  of  the  number  of  gus  he  or  she 
has  lived.  The  gu  season  is  followed  by  the  hagaa  drought  (July- 
September)  and  the  hagaa  by  the  day  rains  (October-November). 
Next  is  jiilaal  (December-March),  the  harshest  season  for  pastora- 
lists  and  their  herds. 

Most  of  the  country  receives  less  than  500  millimeters  of  rain 
annually,  and  a  large  area  encompassing  the  northeast  and  much 
of  northern  Somalia  receives  as  little  as  50  to  150  millimeters.  Cer- 
tain higher  areas  in  the  north,  however,  record  more  than  500  mil- 
limeters a  year,  as  do  some  coastal  sites.  The  southwest  receives 
330  to  500  millimeters.  Generally,  rainfall  takes  the  form  of  show- 
ers or  localized  torrential  rains  and  is  extremely  variable. 

Mean  daily  maximum  temperatures  throughout  the  country 
range  from  30°C  to  40°C,  except  at  higher  elevations  and  along 
the  Indian  Ocean  coast.  Mean  daily  minimum  temperatures  vary 
from  20°C  to  more  than  30°C.  Northern  Somalia  experiences  the 
greatest  temperature  extremes,  with  readings  ranging  from  below 
freezing  in  the  highlands  in  December  to  more  than  45  °C  in  July 
in  the  coastal  plain  skirting  the  Gulf  of  Aden.  The  north's  relative 
humidity  ranges  from  about  40  percent  in  midafternoon  to  85  per- 
cent at  night,  varying  somewhat  with  the  season.  During  the  colder 
months,  December  to  February,  visibility  at  higher  elevations  is 
often  restricted  by  fog. 

Temperatures  in  the  south  are  less  extreme,  ranging  from  about 
20°C  to  40°C.  The  hottest  months  are  February  through  April. 
Coastal  readings  are  usually  five  to  ten  degrees  cooler  than  those 
inland.  The  coastal  zone's  relative  humidity  usually  remains  about 
70  percent  even  during  the  dry  seasons. 

Terrain,  Vegetation,  and  Drainage 

Physiographically,  Somalia  is  a  land  of  limited  contrast.  In  the 
north,  a  maritime  plain  parallels  the  Gulf  of  Aden  coast,  varying 
in  width  from  roughly  twelve  kilometers  in  the  west  to  as  little  as 
two  kilometers  in  the  east.  Scrub-covered,  semiarid,  and  general- 
ly drab,  this  plain,  known  as  the  guban  (scrub  land),  is  crossed  by 
broad,  shallow  watercourses  that  are  beds  of  dry  sand  except  in 


60 


c 
c 
c 
s 

i] 
t: 

F 
h 

S 

Is 
li 

a 
o 
t; 
li 

3 

e: 

r; 
tl 
fi 

g 
fr 

ir 

h 

C( 
IT 

Ol 

2( 
C 
ir 
7( 

T( 

n< 
in 
tv 

iy 
bi 

6( 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  rainy  seasons.  When  the  rains  arrive,  the  vegetation,  which 
is  a  combination  of  low  bushes  and  grass  clumps,  is  quickly  renewed, 
and  for  a  time  the  guban  provides  some  grazing  for  nomad  livestock. 

Inland  from  the  gulf  coast,  the  plain  rises  to  the  precipitous 
northward-facing  cliffs  of  the  dissected  highlands.  These  form  the 
rugged  Karkaar  mountain  ranges  that  extend  from  the  northwestern 
border  with  Ethiopia  eastward  to  the  tip  of  the  Horn  of  Africa, 
where  they  end  in  sheer  cliffs  at  Caseyr.  The  general  elevation  along 
the  crest  of  these  mountains  averages  about  1,800  meters  above 
sea  level  south  of  the  port  town  of  Berbera,  and  eastward  from  that 
area  it  continues  at  1,800  to  2,100  meters  almost  to  Caseyr.  The 
country's  highest  point,  Shimber  Berris,  which  rises  to  2,407  meters, 
is  located  near  the  town  of  Erigavo. 

Southward  the  mountains  descend,  often  in  scarped  ledges,  to 
an  elevated  plateau  devoid  of  perennial  rivers.  This  region  of  broken 
mountain  terrain,  shallow  plateau  valleys,  and  usually  dry  water- 
courses is  known  to  the  Somalis  as  the  Ogo. 

In  the  Ogo's  especially  arid  eastern  part,  the  plateau — broken 
by  several  isolated  mountain  ranges — gradually  slopes  toward  the 
Indian  Ocean  and  in  central  Somalia  constitutes  the  Mudug  Plain. 
A  major  feature  of  this  eastern  section  is  the  long  and  broad  Nugaal 
Valley,  with  its  extensive  network  of  intermittent  seasonal  water- 
courses. The  eastern  area's  population  consists  mainly  of  pastoral 
nomads.  In  a  zone  of  low  and  erratic  rainfall,  this  region  was  a 
major  disaster  area  during  the  great  drought  of  1974  and  early  1975. 

The  western  part  of  the  Ogo  plateau  region  is  crossed  by  numer- 
ous shallow  valleys  and  dry  watercourses.  Annual  rainfall  is  great- 
er than  in  the  east,  and  there  are  flat  areas  of  arable  land  that  provide 
a  home  for  dryland  cultivators.  Most  important,  the  western  area 
has  permanent  wells  to  which  the  predominantly  nomadic  popu- 
lation returns  during  the  dry  seasons.  The  western  plateau  slopes 
gently  southward  and  merges  imperceptibly  into  an  area  known 
as  the  Haud,  a  broad,  undulating  terrain  that  constitutes  some  of 
the  best  grazing  lands  for  Somali  nomads,  despite  the  lack  of  ap- 
preciable rainfall  more  than  half  the  year.  Enhancing  the  value  of 
the  Haud  are  the  natural  depressions  that  during  periods  of  rain 
become  temporary  lakes  and  ponds. 

The  Haud  zone  continues  for  more  than  sixty  kilometers  into 
Ethiopia,  and  the  vast  Somali  Plateau,  which  lies  between  the  north- 
ern Somali  mountains  and  the  highlands  of  southeast  Ethiopia,  ex- 
tends south  and  eastward  through  Ethiopia  into  central  and 
southwest  Somalia.  The  portion  of  the  Haud  lying  within  Ethio- 
pia was  the  subject  of  an  agreement  made  during  the  colonial  era 
permitting  nomads  from  British  Somaliland  to  pasture  their  herds 


63 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

there.  After  Somali  independence  in  1960,  it  became  the  subject 
of  Somali  claims  and  a  source  of  considerable  regional  strife  (see 
Pan-Somalism,  ch.  1). 

Southwestern  Somalia  is  dominated  by  the  country's  only  two 
permanent  rivers,  the  Jubba  and  the  Shabeelle.  With  their  sources 
in  the  Ethiopian  highlands,  these  rivers  flow  in  a  generally  southerly 
direction,  cutting  wide  valleys  in  the  Somali  Plateau  as  it  descends 
toward  the  sea;  the  plateau's  elevation  falls  off  rapidly  in  this  area. 
The  adjacent  coastal  zone,  which  includes  the  lower  reaches  of  the 
rivers  and  extends  from  the  Mudug  Plain  to  the  Kenyan  border, 
averages  180  meters  above  sea  level. 

The  Jubba  River  enters  the  Indian  Ocean  at  Chisimayu. 
Although  the  Shabeelle  River  at  one  time  apparently  also  reached 
the  sea  near  Merca,  its  course  is  thought  to  have  changed  in  pre- 
historic times.  The  Shabeelle  now  turns  southwestward  near  Bal- 
cad  (about  thirty  kilometers  north  of  Mogadishu)  and  parallels  the 
coast  for  more  than  eighty-five  kilometers.  The  river  is  perennial 
only  to  a  point  southwest  of  Mogadishu;  thereafter  it  consists  of 
swampy  areas  and  dry  reaches  and  is  finally  lost  in  the  sand  east 
of  Jilib,  not  far  from  the  Jubba  River.  During  the  flood  seasons, 
the  Shabeelle  River  may  fill  its  bed  to  a  point  near  Jilib  and  occa- 
sionally may  even  break  through  to  the  Jubba  River  farther  south. 
Favorable  rainfall  and  soil  conditions  make  the  entire  riverine  region 
a  fertile  agricultural  area  and  the  center  of  the  country's  largest 
sedentary  population. 

In  most  of  northern,  northeastern,  and  north-central  Somalia, 
where  rainfall  is  low,  the  vegetation  consists  of  scattered  low  trees, 
including  various  acacias,  and  widely  scattered  patches  of  grass. 
This  vegetation  gives  way  to  a  combination  of  low  bushes  and  grass 
clumps  in  the  highly  arid  areas  of  the  northeast  and  along  the  Gulf 
of  Aden. 

As  elevations  and  rainfall  increase  in  the  maritime  ranges  of  the 
north,  the  vegetation  becomes  denser.  Aloes  are  common,  and  on 
the  higher  plateau  areas  of  the  Ogo  are  woodlands.  At  a  few  places 
above  1,500  meters,  the  remnants  of  juniper  forests  (protected  by 
the  state)  and  areas  of  candelabra  euphorbia  (a  chandelier-type  cac- 
tus) occur.  In  the  more  arid  highlands  of  the  northeast,  boswellia 
and  commiphora  trees  are  sources,  respectively,  of  the  frankincense 
and  myrrh  for  which  Somalia  has  been  known  since  ancient  times. 

A  broad  plateau  encompassing  the  northern  city  of  Hargeysa, 
which  receives  comparatively  heavy  rainfall,  is  covered  naturally 
by  woodland  (much  of  which  has  been  degraded  by  overgrazing) 
and  in  places  by  extensive  grasslands.  Parts  of  this  area  have  been 
under  cultivation  since  the  1930s,  producing  sorghum  and  corn; 


64 


Rugged  terrain  in  the  Karkaar  Mountains  of  northern  Somalia 
Mountains  west  of  Mogadishu,  midway  toward  Luuq 

Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 


65 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

in  the  1990s  it  constituted  the  only  significant  region  of  sedentary 
cultivation  outside  southwestern  Somalia. 

The  Haud  south  of  Hargeysa  is  covered  mostly  by  a  semiarid 
woodland  of  scattered  trees,  mainly  acacias,  underlain  by  grasses 
that  include  species  especially  favored  by  livestock  as  forage.  As 
the  Haud  merges  into  the  Mudug  Plain  in  central  Somalia,  the 
aridity  increases  and  the  vegetation  takes  on  a  subdesert  charac- 
ter. Farther  southward  the  terrain  gradually  changes  to  semiarid 
woodlands  and  grasslands  as  the  annual  precipitation  increases. 

The  region  encompassing  the  Shabeelle  and  Jubba  rivers  is  rela- 
tively well  watered  and  constitutes  the  country's  most  arable  zone. 
The  lowland  between  the  rivers  supports  rich  pasturage.  It  features 
arid  to  subarid  savanna,  open  woodland,  and  thickets  that  include 
frequently  abundant  underlying  grasses.  There  are  areas  of  grass- 
land, and  in  the  far  southwest,  near  the  Kenyan  border,  some  dry 
evergreen  forests  are  found. 

Along  the  Indian  Ocean  from  Mereeg,  about  150  kilometers 
northeast  of  Mogadishu,  southwestward  to  near  Chisimayu  lies  a 
stretch  of  coastal  sand  dunes.  This  area  is  covered  with  scattered 
scrub  and  grass  clumps  where  rainfall  is  sufficient.  Overgrazing, 
particularly  in  the  area  between  Mogadishu  and  Chisimayu,  has 
resulted  in  the  destruction  of  the  protective  vegetation  cover  and 
the  gradual  movement  of  the  once- stationary  dunes  inland.  Begin- 
ning in  the  early  1970s,  efforts  were  made  to  stabilize  these  dunes 
by  replanting. 

Other  vegetation  includes  plants  and  grasses  found  in  the  swamps 
into  which  the  Shabeelle  River  empties  most  of  the  year  and  in 
other  large  swamps  in  the  course  of  the  lower  Jubba  River.  Man- 
grove forests  are  found  at  points  along  the  coast,  particularly  from 
Chisimayu  to  near  the  Kenyan  border.  Uncontrolled  exploitation 
appears  to  have  caused  some  damage  to  forests  in  that  area.  Other 
mangrove  forests  are  located  near  Mogadishu  and  at  a  number  of 
places  along  the  northeastern  and  northern  coasts. 

Population  and  Settlement  Patterns 

Somalia's  first  national  census  was  taken  in  February  1975,  and 
as  of  mid- 1992  no  further  census  had  been  conducted.  In  the  ab- 
sence of  independent  verification,  the  reliability  of  the  1975  count 
has  been  questioned  because  those  conducting  it  may  have  over- 
stated the  size  of  their  own  clans  and  lineage  groups  to  augment 
their  allocations  of  political  and  economic  resources.  The  census 
nonetheless  included  a  complete  enumeration  in  all  urban  and  set- 
tled rural  areas  and  a  sample  enumeration  of  the  nomadic  popula- 
tion. In  the  latter  case,  the  sampling  units  were  chiefly  watering 


66 


Mangrove  swamp  near  Chisimayu;  in  rainy  season, 
dense  roots  protect  coastal  area  from  erosion 
Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 

points.  Preliminary  results  of  that  census  were  made  public  as  part 
of  the  Three-Year  Plan,  1979-81,  issued  by  the  Ministry  of  Na- 
tional Planning  in  existence  at  the  time.  (Because  the  Somali  state 
had  disintegrated  and  the  government's  physical  infrastructure  had 
been  destroyed,  no  ministry  of  planning,  or  indeed  any  other 
government  ministry,  existed  in  mid- 1992.)  Somali  officials  sug- 
gested that  the  1975  census  undercounted  the  nomadic  population 
substantially,  in  part  because  the  count  took  place  during  one  of 
the  worst  droughts  in  Somalia's  recorded  history,  a  time  when  many 
people  were  moving  in  search  of  food  and  water. 

The  total  population  according  to  the  1975  census  was  3.3  mil- 
lion. The  United  Nations  (UN)  estimated  Somalia's  population 
in  mid- 1991  at  nearly  7.7  million.  Not  included  were  numerous 
refugees  who  had  fled  from  the  Ogaden  (Ogaadeen)  in  Ethiopia 
to  Somalia  beginning  in  the  mid-1970s  (see  Refugees,  this  ch.). 

The  Ministry  of  National  Planning' s  preliminary  census  data 
distinguished  three  main  categories  of  residents:  nomads,  settled 
farmers,  and  persons  in  nonagricultural  occupations.  Settled  farmers 
lived  in  permanent  settlements  outside  the  national,  regional,  and 
district  capitals,  although  some  of  these  were  in  fact  pastoralists, 
and  others  might  have  been  craftsmen  and  small  traders.  Those 


67 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

living  in  urban  centers  were  defined  as  nonagricultural  regardless 
of  their  occupations.  In  1975  nomads  constituted  nearly  59  per- 
cent of  the  population,  settled  persons  nearly  22  percent,  and 
nonagricultural  persons  more  than  19  percent.  Of  the  population 
categorized  as  nomads,  about  30  percent  were  considered  semi- 
nomadic  because  of  their  relatively  permanent  settlements  and 
shorter  range  of  seasonal  migration. 

Various  segments  of  the  population  apparently  increased  at  differ- 
ent rates.  The  nomadic  population  grew  at  less  than  2  percent  a 
year,  and  the  seminomadic,  fully  settled  rural  and  urban  popula- 
tions (in  that  order)  at  higher  rates — well  over  2.5  percent  in  the 
case  of  the  urban  population.  These  varied  rates  of  growth  cou- 
pled with  increasing  urbanization  and  the  efforts,  even  if  of  limit- 
ed success,  to  settle  nomads  as  cultivators  or  fishermen  were  likely 
to  diminish  the  proportion  of  nomads  in  the  population. 

The  1975  census  did  not  indicate  the  composition  of  the  popu- 
lation by  age  and  sex.  Estimates  suggested,  however,  that  more 
than  45  percent  of  the  total  was  under  fifteen  years  of  age,  only 
about  2  percent  was  over  sixty- five  years,  and  that  there  were  more 
males  than  females  among  the  nomadic  population  and  propor- 
tionately fewer  males  in  urban  areas. 

Population  densities  varied  widely.  The  areas  of  greatest  rural 
density  were  the  settled  zones  adjacent  to  the  Jubba  and  Shabeelle 
rivers,  a  few  places  between  them,  and  several  small  areas  in  the 
northern  highlands.  The  most  lightly  populated  zones  (fewer  than 
six  persons  per  square  kilometer)  were  in  northeastern  and  cen- 
tral Somalia,  but  there  were  some  sparsely  populated  areas  in  the 
far  southwest  along  the  Kenyan  border. 

The  nomadic  and  seminomadic  segments  of  the  population  tradi- 
tionally engage  in  cyclical  migrations  related  to  the  seasons,  par- 
ticularly in  northern  and  northeastern  Somalia.  During  the  dry 
season,  the  nomads  of  the  Ogo  highlands  and  plateau  areas  in  the 
north  and  the  Nugaal  Valley  in  the  northeast  generally  congregate 
in  villages  or  large  encampments  at  permanent  wells  or  other  reliable 
sources  of  water.  When  the  rains  come,  the  nomads  scatter  with 
their  herds  throughout  the  vast  expanse  of  the  Haud,  where  they 
live  in  dispersed  small  encampments  during  the  wet  season,  or  as 
long  as  animal  forage  and  water  last.  When  these  resources  are 
depleted,  the  area  empties  as  the  nomads  return  to  their  home  areas. 
In  most  cases,  adult  men  and  women  and  their  children  remain 
with  the  sheep,  goats,  burden  camels,  and,  occasionally,  cattle. 
Grazing  camels  are  herded  at  some  distance  by  boys  and  young 
unmarried  men. 


68 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

A  nomadic  population  also  inhabits  the  southwest  between  the 
Jubba  River  and  the  Kenyan  border.  Little  is  known  about  the 
migratory  patterns  or  dispersal  of  these  peoples. 

Somalia's  best  arable  lands  lie  along  the  Jubba  and  Shabeelle 
rivers  and  in  the  interriverine  area.  Most  of  the  sedentary  rural 
population  resides  in  the  area  in  permanent  agricultural  villages 
and  settlements.  Nomads  are  also  found  in  this  area,  but  many 
pastoralists  engage  part-time  in  farming,  and  the  range  of  seasonal 
migrations  is  more  restricted.  After  the  spring  rains  begin,  herd- 
ers move  from  the  river  edge  into  the  interior.  They  return  to  the 
rivers  in  the  dry  season  (hagaa),  but  move  again  to  the  interior  in 
October  and  November  if  the  second  rainy  season  (day)  permits. 
They  then  retreat  to  the  rivers  until  the  next  spring  rains.  The  seden- 
tary population  was  augmented  in  the  mid-1970s  by  the  arrival 
of  more  than  100,000  nomads  who  came  from  the  drought- stricken 
north  and  northeast  to  take  up  agricultural  occupations  in  the  south- 
west. However,  the  1980s  saw  some  Somalis  return  to  nomadism; 
data  on  the  extent  of  this  reverse  movement  remain  unavailable. 

The  locations  of  many  towns  appear  to  have  been  determined 
by  trade  factors.  The  present-day  major  ports,  which  range  from 
Chisimayu  and  Mogadishu  in  the  southwest  to  Berbera  and  Say- 
lac  in  the  far  northwest,  were  founded  from  the  eighth  to  the  tenth 
centuries  A.D.  by  Arab  and  Persian  immigrants.  They  became 
centers  of  commerce  with  the  interior,  a  function  they  continued 
to  perform  in  the  1990s,  although  some  towns,  such  as  Saylac,  had 
declined  because  of  the  diminution  of  the  dhow  trade  and  repeat- 
ed Ethiopian  raids.  Unlike  in  other  areas  of  coastal  Africa,  impor- 
tant fishing  ports  failed  to  develop  despite  the  substantial  piscine 
resources  of  the  Indian  Ocean  and  the  Gulf  of  Aden.  This  failure 
appears  to  reflect  the  centuries-old  Somali  aversion  to  eating  fish 
and  the  absence  of  any  sizable  inland  market.  Some  of  the  towns 
south  of  Mogadishu  have  long  been  sites  of  non- Somali  fishing  com- 
munities, however.  The  fisheries'  potential  and  the  need  to  expand 
food  production,  coupled  with  the  problem  of  finding  occupations 
for  nomads  ruined  by  the  1974-75  drought,  resulted  in  govern- 
ment incentives  to  nomad  families  to  settle  permanently  in  fishing 
cooperatives;  about  15,000  nomads  were  reported  established  in 
such  cooperatives  in  late  1975. 

Present-day  inland  trading  centers  in  otherwise  sparsely  popu- 
lated areas  began  their  existence  as  caravan  crossing  points  or  as 
regular  stopping  places  along  caravan  routes.  In  some  cases,  the 
ready  availability  of  water  throughout  the  year  led  to  the  growth 
of  substantial  settlements  providing  market  and  service  facilities 


69 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

to  nomadic  populations.  One  such  settlement  is  Galcaio,  an  oasis 
in  the  Mudug  Plain  that  has  permanent  wells. 

The  distribution  of  towns  and  villages  in  the  agricultural  areas 
of  the  Jubba  and  Shabeelle  rivers  is  related  in  part  to  the  develop- 
ment of  market  centers  by  the  sedentary  population.  But  the  ori- 
gin of  a  considerable  number  of  such  settlements  derives  from  the 
founding  of  agricultural  religious  communities  (jamaat;  sing.,  jamad) 
by  various  Islamic  brotherhoods  during  the  nineteenth  century. 
An  example  is  the  large  town  of  Baardheere,  on  the  Jubba  River 
in  the  Gedo  Region,  which  evolved  from  ajamaa  founded  in  1819 
(see  Religious  Orders  and  the  Cult  of  the  Saints,  this  ch.).  Har- 
geysa,  the  largest  town  in  northern  Somalia,  also  started  as  a  reli- 
gious community  in  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century. 
However,  growth  into  the  country's  second  biggest  city  was  stimu- 
lated mainly  by  its  selection  in  1942  as  the  administrative  center 
for  British  Somaliland.  In  1988  Hargeysa  was  virtually  destroyed 
by  troops  loyal  to  Siad  Barre  in  the  course  of  putting  down  the 
Isaaq  insurrection. 

After  the  establishment  of  a  number  of  new  regions  (for  a  total 
of  sixteen  as  of  early  1992,  including  Mogadishu)  and  districts  (sec- 
ond-order administrative  areas — sixty-nine  as  of  1989  plus  fifteen 
in  the  capital  region),  the  government  defined  towns  to  include  all 
regional  and  district  headquarters  regardless  of  size.  (When  the 
civil  war  broke  out  in  1991 ,  the  regional  administrative  system  was 
nullified  and  replaced  by  one  based  on  regional  clan  groups.)  Also 
defined  as  towns  were  all  other  communities  having  populations 
of  2,000  or  more.  Some  administrative  headquarters  were  much 
smaller  than  that.  Data  on  the  number  of  communities  specified 
as  urban  in  the  1975  census  were  not  available  except  for  the  region 
of  Mogadishu.  At  that  time,  the  capital  had  380,000  residents, 
slightly  more  than  52  percent  of  all  persons  in  the  category  of 
"nonagricultural"  (taken  to  be  largely  urban).  Only  three  other 
regions — Woqooyi  Galbeed,  Shabeellaha  Hoose,  and  the  Bay — 
had  urban  populations  constituting  7  to  9  percent  of  the  total  ur- 
ban population  in  1975.  The  sole  town  of  importance  in  Woqooyi 
Galbeed  Region  at  that  time  was  Hargeysa.  Berbera  was  much 
smaller,  but  as  a  port  on  the  Gulf  of  Aden  it  had  the  potential  to 
grow  considerably.  The  chief  town  in  Shabeellaha  Hoose  Region 
was  Merca,  which  was  of  some  importance  as  a  port.  There  were 
several  other  port  towns,  such  as  Baraawe,  and  some  inland  com- 
munities that  served  as  sites  for  light  manufacturing  or  food  process- 
ing. In  the  Bay  Region,  the  major  towns,  Baidoa  and  Buurhakaba, 
were  located  in  relatively  densely  settled  agricultural  areas.  There 
were  a  few  important  towns  in  other  regions:  the  port  of  Chisimayu 


70 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


in  Jubbada  Hoose  and  Dujuuma  in  the  agricultural  area  of  Jub- 
bada  Dhexe. 

The  Segmentary  Social  Order 

Ethnic  Somalis  are  united  by  language,  culture,  devotion  to  Is- 
lam, and  to  a  common  ancestor,  Samaale,  or  Samaal.  Genealogi- 
cal ties  have  also  provided  the  basis  on  which  divisions  among 
Somalis  have  occurred,  division  historically  being  more  common 
than  unity. 

The  overwhelming  majority  of  Somalis  trace  their  genealogical 
origin  to  the  mythical  founding  father,  Samaale  or  Samaal.  Even 
those  clan-families,  such  as  the  Digil  and  Rahanwayn  in  southern 
Somalia,  whose  members  in  many  cases  do  not  trace  their  lineage 
directly  to  Samaal,  readily  identify  themselves  as  Somalis,  there- 
by accepting  the  primacy  of  Samaal  as  the  forebear  of  the  Somali 
people.  By  language,  traditions,  and  way  of  life,  the  Somalis  share 
kinship  with  other  members  of  the  Eastern  Cushitic  groups  of  the 
Horn  of  Africa,  including  the  Oromo,  who  constitute  roughly  50 
percent  of  the  population  of  Ethiopia;  the  Afar  (Danakil),  who  strad- 
dle the  Great  Rift  Valley  between  Ethiopia  and  Djibouti;  the  Beja 
tribes  of  eastern  Sudan;  and  the  Reendille  (Rendilli)  and  Boni 
(Aweera)  peoples  of  northeastern  Kenya  (see  The  Somalis,  Their 
Origins,  Migrations,  and  Settlement,  ch.  1). 

Genealogy  constitutes  the  heart  of  the  Somali  social  system.  It 
is  the  basis  of  the  collective  Somali  inclination  toward  internal 
fission  and  internecine  conflict,  as  well  as  of  the  Somalis'  sense 
of  being  distinct — a  consciousness  of  otherness  that  borders  on 
xenophobia. 

The  major  branches  of  the  Somali  lineage  system  are  four  over- 
whelmingly pastoral  nomadic  clan-families  (the  Dir,  Daarood, 
Isaaq,  and  Hawiye,  who  are  collectively  denoted  by  the  appella- 
tion of  Samaal),  and  two  agricultural  ones  (the  Digil  and  Rahan- 
wayn) (see  fig.  4).  As  Israeli  political  scientist  Saadia  Touval  noted 
in  his  brief  study  of  Somali  nationalism,  these  six  clan-families  cor- 
respond to  the  "Old  Testament  version  of  the  tribal  segmentation 
of  the  children  of  Israel."  Like  the  children  of  Israel,  the  children 
of  Samaal,  with  minor  exceptions,  are  politically  acephalous  and 
prone  to  internal  schism  and  factionalism.  Although  the  modern 
Somali  state,  which  is  largely  a  creation  of  European  colonialism, 
tried  vainly  to  exercise  a  measure  of  centralized  authority  through 
the  armed  forces  and  the  civilian  bureaucracy,  most  Somalis  con- 
tinued to  give  greater  political  and  emotional  allegiance  to  their 
lineages.  In  1992  the  centralized  state  constructed  on  the  Somali 
Peninsula  had  all  but  disintegrated  into  its  constituent  lineages  and 


71 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


m 
cc 

m 
< 

s  s 


o  < 


£  uj 

Q  UJ  Q  Z 

w  j  5  9  w  < 

c  <  J  <  a  £c 

<  <  3  5  2  =5 
ID  (3  <  5  I  3 

<  qq  2:  <  2  -» 
x  <  a  x  s  3 


1  s  - 

2  I  g 

EC  CC  £ 

<  <  < 
CD  CD  CD 

<  <  < 
XXX 


< 

<  Hi 

->  -I 

m  < 

<  0 
m  < 

<  a 
x  = 


z  z  £  □ 

z  cc  x  x  5  u.  ~! 

£  uj  <  <  3  < 

Q  «S  uj  S  "  w  -J 

<  -»  cc  «i  *5  3  ffl 

O   <  <  =5  <  3  < 

O    S  2  Q  5  >-  * 


72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


clans,  whose  internecine  wars  were  drenching  the  country  in 
bloodshed. 

The  Dir,  Daarood,  Isaaq,  and  Hawiye,  which  together  make 
up  the  Samaal  clans,  constitute  roughly  70  percent  of  the  popula- 
tion. Most  Samaal  clans  are  widely  distributed  pastoralists,  although 
a  growing  minority  of  them  are  settled  cultivators.  The  Digil  and 
Rahanwayn  constitute  about  20  percent  of  the  population.  They 
are  settled  in  the  riverine  regions  of  southern  Somalia  and  rely  on 
a  mixed  economy  of  cattle  and  camel  husbandry  and  cultivation. 

Clan-families,  too  large  and  scattered  for  practical  cooperation, 
in  the  past  had  no  real  political  or  economic  functions.  However, 
with  the  renewal  and  intensification  of  clan  feuding  in  the  wake 
of  Siad  Barre's  fall  from  power  in  early  1991,  the  clan-families  as- 
sumed crucial  significance  as  nascent  political  parties  pitted  against 
one  another  along  tribal  lines  in  a  disastrous  civil  war  (see  Lin- 
eage Segmentation  and  the  Somali  Civil  War,  this  ch.).  Member- 
ship in  clan-families,  primary  lineages,  and  clans  was  traced  through 
males  from  a  common  male  ancestor. 

Descent  as  the  basis  of  group  formation  and  loyalty  was  modi- 
fied, but  not  overridden,  by  the  principle  of  heer.  Membership  in 
the  same  clan  or  lineage  did  not  automatically  entail  certain  rights 
and  obligations.  These  were  explicitly  the  subject  of  treaties  or  con- 
tracts. Thus,  some  clans  in  a  clan-family  might  unite  for  political 
and  military  purposes,  and  some  lineages  within  a  clan  might  as- 
sociate to  pay  and  receive  blood  compensation  in  cases  of  homi- 
cide, injury,  and  other  offenses.  These  alignments  had  a  kinship 
base  in  that  members  often  descended  from  a  particular  wife  of 
a  common  ancestor,  but  units  formed  by  contract  or  treaty  could 
be  dissolved  and  new  ones  formed. 

The  traditional  social  structure  was  characterized  by  competi- 
tion and  conflict  among  descent  groups.  Among  the  Samaal,  the 
search  for  pasture  and  water  drove  clans  and  lineages  physically 
apart  or  pitted  them  against  each  other.  The  Digil  and  Rahanwayn 
(cultivators  of  the  south)  had  a  history  of  warfare  over  trade  and 
religious  matters  and  of  fighting  the  encroachments  of  camel-herding 
nomads. 

Whatever  their  common  origin,  the  Samaal  and  the  Digil  and 
Rahanwayn  evolved  differently  as  they  adapted  to  different  physi- 
cal environments.  With  some  exceptions,  the  Samaal  lived  in  areas 
that  supported  a  pastoralism  based  mainly  on  camels,  sheep,  and 
goats.  The  Digil  and  Rahanwayn  lived  in  the  area  between  the 
rivers  where  they  raised  cattle  and  came  to  enslave  the  non-Somali 
cultivators  who  were  there  when  they  arrived.  After  the  demise 


73 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

of  slavery  in  the  1920s,  the  Digil  and  Rahanwayn  themselves 
undertook  cultivation. 

The  Samaal  considered  themselves  superior  to  settled  Somalis. 
Lineage  remained  the  focal  point  of  loyalty  for  pastoral  nomads. 
The  Digil  and  Rahanwayn  developed  a  heterogeneous  society  that 
accorded  status  to  different  groups  on  the  basis  of  origin  and  oc- 
cupation. Group  cohesion  developed  a  territorial  dimension  among 
the  settled  agriculturists. 

Relations  among  and  within  groups  underwent  changes  during 
the  colonial  era  and  after  independence.  Armed  conflict  among  de- 
scent groups  (or  in  the  south,  territorial  units)  became  rare  during 
the  two  decades  (the  1960s  and  1970s)  following  independence. 
However,  in  the  1980s  and  early  1990s,  as  President  Siad  Barre 
incited  and  inflamed  clan  rivalries  to  divert  public  attention  from 
the  problems  of  his  increasingly  unpopular  regime,  Somali  society 
began  to  witness  an  unprecedented  outbreak  of  inter-  and  intra- 
clan  conflicts.  The  basic  modes  of  social  organization  and  relations 
persisted,  however,  particularly  among  the  pastoral  nomads. 
Moreover,  national  politics  were  often  operated  in  terms  of  rela- 
tionships among  segments  of  various  kinds. 

Several  thousand  persons,  including  some  ethnic  Somalis,  were 
integrated  into  traditional  society  but  were  not  included  in  the  six 
clan-families.  Among  them  were  Somali  clans  descended  from  an- 
cestors predating  or  otherwise  missing  from  the  genealogies  of  the 
six  clan-families.  Others  were  lineages  of  relatively  unmixed  Arab 
or  Persian  descent,  often  much  inbred;  most  members  of  these 
groups  lived  in  the  coastal  towns.  Such  lineages  or  communities 
had  varying  relationships  with  local  Somalis.  Some  were  clients 
subordinate  to  Somali  groups;  others  were  independent  entities  in 
the  larger  towns.  A  second  category  consisted  of  the  so-called  habash, 
or  adoon,  cultivators  or  hunters  of  pre-Somali  origin  who  lived 
among  the  Rahanwayn  and  Digil  in  the  interriverine  area.  A  third 
category  consisted  of  occupationally  specialized  caste-like  groups, 
members  of  which  were  attached  to  Somali  lineages  or  clans.  Fi- 
nally, until  the  last  were  freed  in  the  1920s,  there  was  a  small  num- 
ber of  slaves  attached  to  both  pastoral  and  sedentary  Somali  groups, 
but  of  greater  economic  importance  among  the  latter. 

Samaal 

Among  the  Samaal  clans  were  the  largest  political  units,  most 
of  which  had  heads  known  as  soldaan  (sultan)  or  bokor  (concept  de- 
rived from  a  belt  binding  people  together).  With  few  exceptions, 
a  nomadic  clan  head's  functions  were  honorary  and  ceremonial. 
The  number  and  size  of  clans  within  a  clan-family  varied;  the 


74 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


average  clan  in  the  twentieth  century  numbered  about  100,000  peo- 
ple. Clans  controlled  a  given  territory,  essentially  defined  by  the 
circuit  of  nomadic  migration  but  having  unspecified  boundaries, 
so  that  the  territories  of  neighboring  clans  tended  to  overlap. 

A  Samaal  clan  kept  count  of  the  generations  between  living  mem- 
bers of  the  group  and  the  ancestor  for  whom  it  was  named;  the 
greater  the  number  of  generations  (which  often  implied  substan- 
tial internal  segmentation  into  subclans  or  lineages),  the  greater 
the  clan's  prestige.  Some  ancient  clans  dwindled  and  found  it  neces- 
sary to  attach  themselves  to  other  clans  of  the  same  or  another  clan- 
family.  Similarly,  lineages  detached  from  the  main  body  of  their 
clan  would  ally  with  the  clan  in  whose  territory  they  were  then 
living. 

Clans  living  in  contiguous  territories  sometimes  joined  in  con- 
federacies often  marked  by  internal  subgroupings.  The  Majeer- 
teen  clan,  for  example,  was  part  of  the  Kombe-Harti  confederacy, 
which  was  in  turn  part  of  the  Kablalla.  A  confederacy  consisted 
of  related  clans,  but  the  decision  to  enter  into  a  confederacy  would 
be  the  consequence  of  history  rather  than  genealogy.  The  purposes 
of  the  confederacy  would  be  enumerated  in  a  treaty  or  contract, 
often  set  down  by  a  religious  figure  in  an  early  Arabic-script  ver- 
sion of  Somali. 

Clans  were  segmented  into  primary  lineages  whose  genealogical 
depth  ranged  from  twelve  to  fourteen  generations.  These  lin- 
eages were  in  turn  segmented  into  secondary  and  sometimes  ter- 
tiary lineages.  The  process  of  internal  segmentation  was  continuous. 
The  political  (and  sometimes  the  economic)  relevance  of  a  clan  or 
lineage  of  a  given  genealogical  depth  varied  with  the  context.  Somali 
lacked  specific  terms  for  different  levels  of  segmentation.  Accord- 
ing to  anthropologist  I.M.  Lewis,  an  authority  on  pastoral  Soma- 
lis,  there  are  three  "points  of  unity  and  division  at  which 
political  solidarity  most  frequently  emerges  .  .  .  those  of  clan, 
primary  lineage  group,  and  d&jya-paying  group." 

The  ^jfl-paying  (see  Glossary)  group  was  an  alliance  formed  by 
related  lineages  within  a  clan  by  means  of  a  contract,  traditionally 
oral  but  filed  in  written  form  with  district  officials  during  the  colonial 
era,  at  least  in  British  Somaliland.  The  contract  explicitly  stated 
the  rights  and  duties  of  members  of  the  group  with  respect  to  the 
burdens  of  payment  and  the  distribution  of  receipts  of  blood  com- 
pensation, that  is,  distribution  of  the  camels  or  money  received, 
when  the  parties  were  members  of  the  same  or  different  ^a-paying 
groups.  In  the  case  of  a  homicide,  the  lineages  of  the  group  shared 
in  giving  or  receiving  a  specified  portion  of  the  compensation.  A 
smaller  but  still  substantial  portion  (xhejiffo)  was  given  or  received 


75 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

by  the  relatively  close  kin  of  the  killer  or  the  deceased,  that  is,  by 
an  agnatic  group  descended  from  a  common  ancestor  three  or  four 
generations  back.  In  the  case  of  offenses  requiring  the  payment 
of  a  smaller  compensation,  sharing  still  occurred  within  the  diya- 
paying  group,  but  in  minor  cases  thejY^o-paying  group  alone  might 
be  involved. 

The  lineages  constituting  a  ^jy<2-paying  group  were  often  second- 
ary; that  is,  the  ancestors  of  each  were  fewer  than  the  twelve  to 
fourteen  characteristic  of  a  primary  lineage.  If  a  group  with  a  re- 
mote ancestor  lacked  the  numbers  to  constitute  its  own  <$ya-paying 
group,  it  might  join  with  another  such  group  to  form  one,  thus 
minimizing  the  financial  burden.  Moreover,  the  ultimate  traditional 
sanction  was  armed  conflict,  and  here  again  lack  of  manpower  was 
clearly  a  liability. 

Both  afzj^-paying  and  jiffo-paying  groups  were  important  units 
of  social  and  economic  organization  aside  from  their  stated  pur- 
pose. They  functioned  as  mutual  aid  groups  in  times  of  economic 
hardship  or  other  emergencies.  They  established  and  enforced  regu- 
lations. In  1964  it  was  estimated  that  more  than  1 ,000  such  groups 
existed  in  the  republic.  Among  the  nomads,  membership  ranged 
from  300  to  more  than  5,000  men  and  among  the  sedentary  Somalis 
from  5,000  to  100,000  men. 

The  political  and  economic  business  of  any  functioning  segment 
in  Samaal  society  was  managed  by  a  council  called  a  shir,  which 
included  all  adult  males  in  the  group.  Each  member  might  speak 
and  take  part  in  deliberation.  Age  and  seniority  of  lineage  took 
precedence  in  that  an  older  man  or  one  from  an  older  lineage  would 
customarily  be  asked  to  speak  before  others  did,  but  the  opinions 
of  a  persuasive  speaker,  whatever  his  seniority,  would  be  given  add- 
ed weight.  A  wealthy  herder  might  also  have  a  greater  say.  The 
term  oday  (elder)  could  be  applied  to  any  adult  male,  but  those  with 
more  prestige  and  experience  might  be  asked  to  arbitrate  disputes 
over  a  wide  area  and  act  as  ad  hoc  leaders  in  political  matters. 

In  traditional  society,  most  Samaal  men  lived  as  warriors  and 
herders;  a  warrior  (waranle — see  Glossary)  considered  his  vocation 
nobler  than  any  other  except  the  religious  life.  A  religious  person 
(wadad;  pi.,  wadaddo — see  Glossary)  was  considered  the  equal  of 
a  warrior,  but  few  Samaal  committed  themselves  to  a  religious  life. 
Many  who  did  so  retained  their  ties  to  clan  and  lineage,  although 
in  principle  they  were  supposed  to  avoid  partisanship  and  armed 
conflict.  This  rule  did  not  pertain  to  jihad  or  religious  warfare.  A 
few  wadaddo  settled  in  religious  communities. 

Cultivating  groups  of  Samaal  origin  resided  in  various  places. 
These  groups,  which  also  kept  livestock,  were  accepted  as  fellow 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Samaal  by  the  pastoralists  but  were  considered  to  have  lost  pres- 
tige, even  if  they  had  gained  economically.  Some  Samaal  attached 
themselves  as  cultivating  clients  to  stockraising  Digil  or  Rahan- 
wayn  in  the  riverine  region;  the  Samaal  usually  ended  such  rela- 
tionships when  they  could  resume  their  pastoral  activities  or  when 
the  economic  advantages  of  cultivation  diminished.  The  lineage 
pattern  remained  intact  among  Samaal  cultivators. 

Digil  and  Rahanwayn 

Some  texts  refer  to  these  two  mainly  agriculturist  clans  of  Digil 
and  Rahanwayn  as  Sab.  However,  members  of  the  Digil  and  Ra- 
hanwayn and  most  Somalis  consider  the  appellation  Sab  derogato- 
ry. Used  as  a  common  noun  meaning  "ignoble,"  the  term  sab  was 
applied  by  the  Samaal  to  groups  that  pursued  certain  disdained 
occupations.  The  Samaal  felt  that  the  Sab  had  lowered  themselves 
by  their  reliance  on  agriculture  and  their  readiness  to  assimilate 
foreign  elements  into  their  clans.  Traditionally,  the  Rahanwayn 
are  considered  a  Digil  offshoot  that  became  larger  than  the  parent 
group. 

The  social  structure  of  the  Sab  resembled  that  of  the  Samaal  in 
that  it  was  based  on  descent  groups.  However,  there  were  signifi- 
cant differences.  Sab  clans  were  confederations  of  lineages  and  in- 
cluded persons  originating  in  all-Somali  clan-families  as  well  as 
assimilated  peoples.  They  came  into  being  through  a  pact  between 
the  original  founding  segments,  one  of  which,  of  Sab  origin,  was 
dominant;  the  name  of  the  Sab  segment  became  the  name  of  the 
clan.  By  the  twentieth  century,  the  descendants  of  that  dominant 
lineage  often  constituted  only  a  relatively  small  core  of  the  clan. 
The  constituent  lineages  of  the  clan  tended  to  have  much  shallow- 
er genealogies  than  the  Samaal.  Another  important  difference  be- 
tween the  nomadic  Samaal  societies  and  the  sedentary  Sab  was  in 
the  significance  accorded  to  territoriality.  Sab  clans  lived  within 
distinct  borders.  The  entire  clan  (or  large  subclan)  often  constitut- 
ed the  ^zjya-paying  group  in  relation  to  other  clans.  The  term  reer, 
which  the  Samaal  used  in  connection  with  descent,  was  used  by 
the  Sab  with  a  place  name,  e.g. ,  reer  barawa  (children  of  Baraawe). 

Many  clans  were  segmented  into  three  subclans,  called  gember, 
although  some,  such  as  the  Jiddu  clans  of  the  Digil  clan-family, 
had  only  two  subclans.  Clans  and  subclans  usually  had  single  heads. 
In  some  cases,  however,  as  among  the  Helai  clans  of  the  Rahan- 
wayn, there  were  no  clan  heads.  Clan  affairs  were  handled  by  lead- 
ing elders  called  gobweyn,  who  had  assistants  called  gobyar. 

Clans  and  subclans  were  subdivided  into  lineages  that  reckoned 
three  to  five  generations  from  ancestor  to  youngest  member.  The 


77 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

lineage  traditionally  owned  land  and  water  rights,  which  the  head 
men  distributed  to  individual  lineage  members. 

The  manner  in  which  Sab  clans  were  formed  led  to  recognized 
social  inequalities,  sometimes  marked  by  differences  in  physical 
appearance  owing  to  intermarriage  within  a  stratum.  Each  stra- 
tum in  a  community  consisted  of  one  or  more  lineages.  The  basic 
distinction  was  between  nobles  (free  clansmen)  and  habash,  a  group 
made  up  of  pre-Somali  cultivators  and  freed  slaves  (see  Riverine 
and  Coastal  Peoples  of  Non-Somali  Origin,  this  ch.). 

In  some  Rahanwayn  and  Digil  communities,  there  was  a  fur- 
ther distinction  between  two  sets  of  nobles.  Within  the  Geledi  clan 
(located  in  Afgooye,  just  north  of  Mogadishu,  and  its  environs) 
studied  by  anthropologist  Virginia  Luling,  the  nobles  were  divided 
into  Darkskin  and  Lightskin  categories,  designations  correspond- 
ing to  the  physical  appearance  of  their  members.  The  Darkskins 
were  descendants  of  the  core  or  founding  group  of  the  Geledi;  the 
Lightskins  had  a  separate  line  of  descent,  claimed  partly  Arab  ori- 
gin, and  resembled  the  Arab  populations  of  the  old  coastal  towns. 
They  had  been  completely  Somalized,  however.  The  wealth  and 
position  of  the  Lightskins  were  similar  to  that  of  the  Darkskins, 
but  the  latter  had  precedence  in  certain  traditional  rites. 

Each  lineage  (which  consisted  of  perhaps  300  to  400  persons), 
or  Darkskins,  Lightskins,  and  habash,  had  its  own  set  of  elders  and 
constituted  a  diya-paying  group  vis-a-vis  the  others,  but  was  bound 
in  a  common  contract  concerning  rates  of  compensation  for  inju- 
ries. In  principle,  habash  lineages  had  equal  rights  under  this  sys- 
tem. Each  lineage  controlled  specific  segments  of  the  land  and 
allocated  to  an  individual  male  as  much  as  his  family  could  culti- 
vate. However,  only  the  habash  were  subsistence  cultivators  in  the 
nineteenth  and  the  early  twentieth  centuries.  The  nobles,  whether 
Darkskins  or  Lightskins,  cultivated  much  larger  areas  by  means 
of  slave  labor  and  exported  surpluses  via  the  coastal  ports  to  Arab 
lands.  In  the  case  of  the  Geledi,  wealth  accrued  to  the  nobles  and 
to  the  sultan  not  only  from  market  cultivation  but  also  from  in- 
volvement in  the  slave  trade  and  other  enterprises,  such  as  com- 
merce in  ivory,  cotton,  and  iron.  The  Geledi  also  raised  cattle. 

The  sultan  of  the  Geledi  (a  member  of  the  Darkskin  stratum) 
had  a  political  and  religious  role.  He  also  wielded  somewhat  greater 
authority  than  the  sultans  of  the  Samaal  clans,  but  this  authority 
was  by  no  means  absolute. 

The  sociopolitical  organization  and  processes  of  the  Geledi  resem- 
bled those  of  many  Digil  and  Rahanwayn  communities.  Not  all 
such  communities  had  a  Lightskin  component,  and  many  were  not 
located  as  auspiciously  as  the  Geledi,  for  whom  trade  developed 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

as  a  major  economic  factor.  Most,  however,  had  slaves  who  worked 
the  land  of  the  nobles. 

The  sedentary  Somali  communities  in  the  coastal  and  interriver- 
ine  areas,  some  of  which  were  of  Samaal  origin,  were  more  strongly 
affected  by  the  advent  of  European  colonization  than  the  nomadic 
pastoralists  were.  Clans,  and  occasionally  large  lineages,  came  to 
have  government  chiefs  appointed  by  colonial  authorities,  some- 
times where  there  had  been  no  chiefs  of  any  kind.  For  the  Geledi, 
the  most  important  such  chief  was  the  sultan.  Whatever  his  ori- 
gin, the  government-appointed  chief  was  expected  to  be  the  inter- 
mediary between  the  colonial  government  and  the  people. 

The  abolition  of  the  slave  trade  and  the  outlawing  of  slavery  by 
1920  changed  not  only  the  lives  of  the  slaves  but  also  the  position 
of  the  nobles  whose  economic  and  political  power  depended  on  the 
slave  economy.  In  Geledi  areas  and  elsewhere,  many  slaves  left 
to  take  up  other  land  as  subsistence  cultivators.  A  few  remained, 
and  their  descendants  maintained  a  quasi-dependent  relationship 
as  clients  of  their  former  masters.  By  the  second  decade  of  the  twen- 
tieth century,  nobles  were  faced  for  the  first  time  with  having  to 
cultivate  their  own  land.  None  of  the  groups — nobles,  habash,  or 
ex-slaves — worked  voluntarily  for  wages  on  the  Italian  plantations 
established  at  that  time;  colonial  authorities  usually  made  such  labor 
mandatory. 

Despite  the  radical  social,  political,  and  economic  changes 
brought  about  by  colonization,  the  nobles  retained  their  superior 
position  in  Geledi  (and  probably  in  other  Rahanwayn  and  Digil) 
communities.  The  nobles'  status  positioned  them  to  profit  from 
new  income  opportunities  such  as  paid  employment  with  the  Italians 
or  trade  in  the  growing  Afgooye  market.  They  benefited  from  such 
business  opportunities  throughout  the  colonial  period,  as  well  as 
from  educational  and  political  opportunities,  particularly  during 
the  trusteeship  period  (1950-60).  Independence  introduced  still 
other  changes  to  which  the  nobles  responded  (see  Social  Change, 
this  ch.). 

Riverine  and  Coastal  People  of  Non-Somali  Origin 

Along  the  southern  coast,  in  the  valleys  of  the  Jubba  and 
Shabeelle  rivers  and  in  a  few  places  between  the  rivers,  live  small 
groups — probably  totaling  less  than  2  percent  of  the  population — 
who  differ  culturally  and  physically  from  the  Somalis.  Some  are 
descendants  of  pre-Somali  inhabitants  of  the  area  who  were  able 
to  resist  absorption  or  enslavement  by  the  Somalis.  The  ancestors 
of  others  were  slaves  who  escaped  to  found  their  own  communi- 
ties or  were  freed  in  the  course  of  European  antislavery  activity 


79 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

in  the  nineteenth  century.  The  Somali  term  for  these  people,  par- 
ticularly the  riverine  and  interriverine  cultivators,  is  habash. 

The  relations  of  the  habash  communities  with  neighboring  Somali 
groups  varied,  but  most  have  traditional  attachments  of  some  sort 
to  a  Somali  lineage,  and  members  of  all  but  a  few  communities 
along  the  coast  speak  Somali  as  a  first  language.  In  earlier  times, 
whereas  some  habash  communities  had  considerable  independence, 
in  others  habash  were  much  like  serfs  cultivating  land  under  the 
patronage  of  a  Somali  lineage.  In  such  cases,  however,  it  was  un- 
derstood that  habash  could  not  be  deprived  of  their  land,  and  there 
was  litde  reason  for  the  pastoral  Somalis  to  do  so.  Somalis  and  habash 
did  not  intermarry;  nor  would  a  Somali  eat  a  meal  prepared  by 
habash.  As  these  restrictions  suggest,  Somalis — whether  Samaal  or 
Sab — considered  the  habash  their  inferiors.  Nevertheless,  the  po- 
litical relationship  of  some  habash  groups  to  neighboring  Somali 
groups  was  that  of  near-equals. 

The  attachment  of  habash  groups  to  sections  of  Somali  society 
usually  entailed  the  participation  of  the  habash  community  in  the 
diya-paying  group  of  Somali  lineages  or  clans.  Like  the  Somali, 
all  but  a  few  habash  had  been  converted  to  Islam,  and  some  of  them 
had  become  leaders  of  religious  communities  in  the  interriverine 
area. 

Most  non-Somali  peoples  were  primarily  cultivators,  but  some, 
like  the  Eyle,  also  hunted,  something  the  Somalis  would  not  do. 
A  few  groups,  including  the  Boni,  remained  primarily  hunters  into 
the  twentieth  century  and  were  accordingly  looked  down  on  by  the 
Somalis.  By  midcentury  most  of  these  peoples  had  turned  to  culti- 
vation, and  some  had  moved  into  the  towns  and  become  laborers. 

Along  the  coast  live  the  Bajuni  and  the  Amarani.  They  are  fisher- 
men, sailors,  and  merchants,  derived  from  a  mixture  of  coastal 
populations.  Their  ancestors  included  Arab  or  Persian  settlers  and 
seafaring  peoples  of  India  and  the  East  Indies.  Both  the  Bajuni  and 
the  Amarani  speak  dialects  of  Swahili.  The  Amarani,  who  were 
estimated  to  number  fewer  than  1,000  in  the  early  1990s,  inhabit 
small  fishing  communities  in  and  near  Baraawe,  Mogadishu,  Mer- 
ca,  and  the  inland  town  of  Afgooye  on  the  Shabeelle  River.  The 
Bajuni  inhabit  the  East  African  coast  and  Bajun  Islands  near 
Chisimayu  in  a  continuous  strip  from  Chisimayu  southward  into 
Kenya  as  far  as  Lamu,  and  maintain  scattered  communities  as  far 
away  as  Mozambique.  Both  the  Amarani  and  the  Bajuni  have  lit- 
tle contact  with  outsiders  except  in  towns.  Partial  geographical  iso- 
lation and  an  active  ethnic  consciousness  distinguished  by 
differences  in  languages  separate  them  from  the  Somalis. 


80 


Design  of  village  huts  varies  according  to  ethnic  group. 

Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 


81 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Specialized  Occupational  Groups 

Certain  occupational  groups  such  as  hunters,  leather-dressers, 
and  smiths  are  known  as  sab  (ignoble)  among  the  Samaal  and  as 
bon  (low  caste)  among  the  Sab.  They  resemble  Somalis,  but  their 
ethnic  origin  is  uncertain.  Some  authorities  suggest — and  group 
members  believe — that  they  may  be  derived  from  the  land's  origi- 
nal population.  They  speak  Somali,  but  also  use  local  dialects. 

In  the  late  1950s,  when  the  Somali  population  was  estimated  at 
2  million,  the  number  of  sab  was  estimated  at  more  than  12,000, 
or  less  than  1  percent  of  the  population.  Of  these,  about  three- 
quarters  were  of  the  midgaan  (an  appellation  considered  pejorative 
and  ultimately  legally  forbidden)  group  whose  men  worked  as  bar- 
bers, circumcisers,  and  hunters.  Less  than  a  quarter  of  the  total 
consisted  of  the  Tumaal,  who  engaged  chiefly  in  metalwork.  The 
smallest  group  was  the  Yibir  (Yahhar  in  the  south),  magicians  called 
upon  to  make  amulets  for  the  newborn,  bless  Somali  weddings, 
and  act  as  soothsayers.  In  return  for  these  services,  they  would  be 
given  gifts. 

Occupational  groups  had  lineages,  but  these  were  not  usually 
the  foundation  of  ^a-paying  groups  before  Somalia's  indepen- 
dence. Except  perhaps  for  the  Yibir,  who  moved  from  one  group 
of  Somalis  to  another,  families  of  occupational  specialists  were  at- 
tached to  Somali  lineages,  which  acted  as  their  patrons  and  claimed 
compensation  on  their  behalf.  By  the  end  of  the  colonial  period, 
change  had  begun  to  take  place  in  the  political,  legal,  and  social 
status  of  these  groups. 

Social  Change 

Colonial  domination  had  various  effects,  such  as  the  formal  abo- 
lition of  slavery  in  the  years  preceding  World  War  II,  particularly 
in  the  interriverine  area.  The  effects  of  Western  rule  had  a  greater 
impact  on  the  social  and  economic  orders  in  urban  than  in  rural 
areas.  After  World  War  II,  the  institution  of  the  trusteeship  in  the 
Italian-administered  south  and  greater  attention  to  education  in 
the  British-run  north  gradually  led  to  further  change  (see  British 
Military  Administration;  Trusteeship  and  Protectorate,  ch.  1). 

The  late  colonial  period  and  the  first  decade  of  independence 
saw  the  decline,  in  part  legally  enforced,  of  caste-like  restrictions  and 
impediments  to  the  equality  of  habash  and  traditional  occupational 
groups.  In  the  south,  although  nobles  were  more  likely  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  educational  opportunities,  habash  increasingly  did  so. 

The  growing  importance  of  manual  skills  in  the  modern  economy 
gave  some  occupational  groups  an  economic,  if  not  an  immediate 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


social,  advantage.  For  example,  many  Tumaal  blacksmiths  became 
mechanics  and  settled  in  towns.  In  southern  port  towns,  carpenters, 
weavers,  and  other  artisans  formed  guilds  to  protect  their  common 
interests.  As  skilled  manual  work  became  more  available  and  so- 
cially acceptable,  tolerance  of  members  of  the  traditional  groups 
increased  to  the  point  where  some  intermarriage  occurred  in  the 
towns.  In  the  rural  areas,  members  of  these  groups  formed  their 
own  ^zjya-paying  units  and  in  a  few  cases  began  to  take  part  in  the 
councils  of  the  Somali  lineages  to  which  they  remained  attached. 

Somali  leaders  tried  to  eliminate  the  traditional  disabilities  of 
low-status  groups.  In  early  1960,  just  before  independence,  the  legis- 
lative assembly  of  the  Italian  trust  territory  abolished  the  status 
of  client,  that  is,  of  habash  dependent  on  Somalis  for  land  and  water 
rights.  The  law  stated  that  Somali  citizens  could  live  and  farm  where 
they  chose,  independent  of  hereditary  affiliation.  Patron  lineages 
in  the  riverine  area  resisted  the  change  and  retaliated  against  habash 
assertions  of  independence.  They  withheld  customary  farming  and 
watering  rights,  excluded  habash  from  diya-paying  arrangements, 
and,  in  some  cases,  sought  to  oust  them  from  the  land  they  had 
farmed  for  generations  as  clients.  Some  habash  brought  cases  in 
court,  seeking  to  affirm  their  new  rights,  but  initially  many  con- 
tinued to  live  under  the  old  arrangements.  Clientship  appeared  by 
the  early  1990s  to  have  diminished  in  fact  as  it  had  been  abrogat- 
ed in  law. 

Whereas  some  features  of  traditional  stratification  were  eroded, 
new  strata  based  on  education  and  command  of  a  foreign  lan- 
guage— English  or  Italian — were  forming  in  the  late  colonial  peri- 
od (see  Education,  this  ch.).  With  independence,  a  new  elite  arose 
as  Somalis  assumed  the  highest  political  and  bureaucratic  positions 
in  national  government.  A  subelite  also  emerged,  consisting  of  per- 
sons with  more  modest  educational  qualifications  who  filled  posts 
in  local  and  regional  government.  In  many  cases,  however,  these 
government  workers  were  the  sons  of  men  who  had  acquired  a 
degree  of  wealth  in  nonprofessional  activities  such  as  landholding, 
trading,  and  herding,  in  part  because  the  costs  of  secondary  edu- 
cation in  the  colonial  period  could  be  met  only  by  relatively  af- 
fluent families. 

Two  somewhat  contradictory  forces  affected  educated  urban 
Somalis  in  the  1950s  and  1960s.  On  the  one  hand,  their  income, 
education,  and,  above  all,  their  literacy  in  a  foreign  language  dis- 
tanced them  from  most  other  Somalis.  On  the  other  hand,  lineage 
and  clan  remained  important  to  most  of  this  new  elite.  Thus  de- 
scent groups  acquired  a  new  importance  in  national  politics. 


83 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Locally,  particularly  in  the  larger  towns,  a  combination  of  out- 
siders and  area  residents  provided  middle-level  administration.  One 
administrative  component  would  consist  of  members  of  the  national 
subelite  brought  in  by  the  Somali  government.  Typically,  this  group 
would  include  the  district  commissioner,  the  judge,  the  secretary 
to  the  municipality,  the  staff  of  some  of  these  officials,  teachers, 
and  the  national  police.  Locally  elected  councillors  would  consti- 
tute the  other  administrative  component.  Some  councillors  were 
lineage  heads;  others  were  businessmen  or  had  some  other  basis 
for  their  local  status.  Some  of  the  local  notables  had  sons  serving 
as  district  officials  but,  by  regulation,  not  in  their  home  commu- 
nities. In  Afgooye,  a  town  in  which  the  Geledi,  the  Wadaan  (a  group 
of  the  Hawiye  clan-family),  and  others  were  represented,  the  local 
people  and  the  subelite  meshed  well  in  the  mid-  and  late  1960s, 
but  Afgooye  was  not  necessarily  representative  of  local  communi- 
ties in  the  riverine  areas  or  elsewhere. 

Beginning  in  the  nineteenth  century,  there  was  a  growing  dis- 
tinction between  the  bulk  of  nomadic  Somalis  and  their  kinsmen 
in  the  towns  acting  as  middlemen  in  the  livestock  trade  with  Aden. 
Some  of  these  townsmen  became  relatively  wealthy  and  appeared 
to  have  more  influence  in  council  than  their  pastoralist  relatives. 

By  the  1960s,  the  demand  for  livestock  in  the  Middle  East  had 
led  to  a  great  expansion  of  the  livestock  trade  through  the  port  of 
Berbera.  Hargeysa  and  Burao  became  the  points  from  which  150 
to  200  major  livestock  dealers  and  their  agents — all  but  a  few  of 
them  Somalis — operated.  The  nomadic  producers  directed  their 
activity  toward  the  commercial  market,  but  the  traders  controlled 
the  terms  of  trade,  the  feedlots,  and  some  of  the  better  grazing  land. 
The  government  did  not  interfere  because  the  livestock  trade  was 
too  important  as  a  source  of  foreign  exchange,  and  because  the 
traders  marketed  the  animals  efficiently. 

A  new  class  of  merchants  thus  emerged.  They  retained  their  con- 
nections with  their  lineages,  but  their  interests  differed  from  those 
of  nomadic  herders.  If  they  were  not  educated,  they  tried  to  en- 
sure that  their  children  attended  school. 

After  World  War  II  and  during  the  first  decade  of  independence, 
the  government  stressed  loyalty  to  the  nation  in  place  of  loyalty 
to  clan  and  lineage.  The  segmental  system  was  seen  as  a  divisive 
force,  a  source  of  nepotism  and  corruption;  Somali  politicians 
denounced  it  as  "tribalism."  A  few  Somalis  rejected  reference  to 
clan  and  lineage.  Nevertheless,  persons  meeting  for  the  first  time 
asked  each  other  about  their  "ex-clans."  Clan-families,  once  func- 
tionally unimportant,  became  increasingly  significant  as  political 
rallying  points,  particularly  as  Somalia  approached  independence, 


84 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


and  they  continued  to  be  so  in  the  1990s.  Clans  and  lineages  re- 
mained the  basic  unit  of  society,  serving  many  social,  political,  and 
economic  functions  regionally  and  locally.  Although  the  Somali 
government  opposed  clans  and  lineages,  it  continued  to  appoint 
and  pay  lineage  heads;  lineages  and  clans  were  in  fact  voting  blocs. 
Supreme  Court  decisions  in  1962  and  1964  effected  a  major  change 
in  the  role  of  the  ^<2-paying  group.  The  court's  judgments  for- 
bade collective  payment  for  premeditated  homicide.  Payments  for 
unpremeditated  homicide  and  injury,  however,  were  defined  as 
compensation  for  a  tort  and  were  permitted.  In  this  era,  too,  the 
diya-pay'mg  group's  responsibilities  were  extended  to  cover  traffic 
fatalities. 

The  military  leadership  that  took  power  in  October  1969  in- 
troduced elements  that  constituted  a  radical  break  with  the  past. 
The  new  regime  soon  declared  socialism  as  its  frame  of  reference, 
in  part  as  a  means  of  obtaining  Soviet  aid  (see  Siad  Barre  and  Scien- 
tific Socialism,  ch.  1).  The  regime's  basic  ideas  constituted  a  prag- 
matic version  of  Marxism  adapted  to  local  social  and  economic 
conditions.  In  this  version,  class  struggle  did  not  apply;  the  bour- 
geoisie was  very  small,  composed  of  the  new  elite  and  subelite  (chief- 
ly employed  in  government),  a  few  traders,  and  a  few  profession- 
als. There  was  no  significant  proletariat,  rural  or  urban,  and  no 
great  Somali  entrepreneurs  or  landholders. 

In  its  initial  zest  for  change,  the  new  regime  focused  on  the  di- 
visions in  Somali  society:  the  cleavages  between  clans  and  lineages, 
the  settled  and  the  nomadic,  strong  and  weak  pastoral  lineages  com- 
peting for  grazing  and  water,  patrons  and  clients  in  the  cultivat- 
ing regions,  and  urban  and  rural  dwellers.  Attention  was  also  given 
to  the  continuing  disdain  shown  to  those  of  low  status.  Under  the 
new  regime,  clan  and  lineage  affiliations  were  irrelevant  to  social 
relations,  and  the  use  of  pejorative  labels  to  describe  specific  groups 
thought  inferior  to  Somalis  were  forbidden.  All  Somalis  were  asked 
to  call  each  other  jaalle  (comrade),  regardless  of  hereditary  affiliation. 

Within  limits  the  language  of  public  discourse  can  be  changed 
by  fiat;  much  pejorative  language  was  expurgated.  Nevertheless, 
Somalis  continued  to  learn  each  other's  clan  or  lineage  affiliation 
when  it  was  useful  to  do  so,  and  in  private  it  was  not  uncommon 
for  Somalis  to  refer  to  habash  by  the  phrase  "kinky  hair."  The  term 
jaalle  was  widely  used  in  the  media  and  in  a  range  of  public  situa- 
tions, but  its  use  cannot  be  said  to  have  reflected  a  change  of  per- 
spective. 

The  government  also  sought  to  change  the  function  of  the  clans 
and  lineages  by  abolishing  the  title  of  elder  and  replacing  it  with 
peacekeeper.  Peacekeepers  were  the  appointed  spokesmen  of  what  were 


85 


86 


Baobab  tree,  a  welcome  source  of  shade,  with  village  huts  nearby,  near  Luuq 

Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 


87 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


officially  regarded  as  local  groups  composed  of  either  cultivators 
or  pastoralists.  In  the  early  1970s,  collective  responsibility  (diya  pay- 
ment) in  any  guise  was  abolished. 

Like  most  governments  required  to  deal  with  a  large  nomadic 
population,  the  pre-  and  post-revolutionary  regimes  sought  to  find 
ways  to  setde  the  pastoralists,  both  to  improve  the  pastoral  economy 
and  to  facilitate  control  and  services.  Efforts  to  convert  the  nomads 
into  ranchers  made  little  progress,  and  in  the  early  1990s  most  herd- 
ers were  still  nomadic  or  seminomadic.  The  1974  drought,  however, 
drove  many  nomads  to  seek  government  help;  by  1975  about 
105,000  had  been  resettled,  90,000  as  cultivators  and  15,000  as 
fishermen.  Clans  were  deliberately  mixed  within  the  settlements, 
and  the  settlers  were  expected  to  deal  as  individuals  with  local  coun- 
cils, committees,  and  courts,  whose  membership  was  also  heter- 
ogeneous. Three  years  later,  nearly  45  percent  of  the  adult  males 
had  left  the  cultivating  settlements,  perhaps  to  resume  herding. 
Most  of  those  living  in  fishing  communities  remained.  Neither  the 
farmers  nor  the  fishermen  had  been  economically  successful. 

The  dismantling  of  the  diya  system;  the  institution  of  several  po- 
litical and  administrative  offices  intended  to  eliminate  power  vest- 
ed in  lineages  and  clans;  and  the  establishment  of  committees, 
councils,  and  cooperatives  were  all  part  of  a  policy  to  replace  the 
descent  group  system  as  the  primary  means  of  organizing  politi- 
cal, economic,  and  social  life.  Another  manifestation  of  this  policy 
was  the  banning  in  1972  of  weddings,  burials,  and  religious  rites 
organized  on  a  lineage  or  clan  basis.  Wedding  ceremonies  were 
henceforth  to  be  held  at  orientation  centers  or  other  public  places. 
Money  could  not  be  collected  from  lineage  members  for  the  burial 
of  a  dead  member,  and  the  law  forbade  religious  rites  tied  to  local 
traditions. 

Most  published  observations  refer  to  the  continuing  role  of  clan 
affiliation  in  national  politics.  The  clan-family,  which  rose  to  con- 
siderable importance  in  Somali  politics  in  the  1950s  and  1960s, 
seemed  in  later  years  to  lose  its  force  as  a  rallying  point.  With  the 
exception  of  northern  Somalia's  Isaaq  people,  the  groups  that  ex- 
erted influence  either  for  or  against  the  regime  were  mostly  of  a 
single  clan-family,  the  Daarood;  President  Mohammed  Siad  Barre's 
clan,  Mareehaan;  his  mother's  clan,  Ogaden;  his  son-in-law's  clan, 
Dulbahante;  and  the  opposition  clan,  Majeerteen. 

Among  the  revolutionary  regime's  concerns  was  the  status  of 
women.  After  World  War  II,  all  political  parties  had  established 
women's  committees.  In  the  Italian-administered  south,  women 
voted  for  the  first  time  in  the  1958  municipal  elections;  in  the  for- 
merly British  north,  women  voted  in  the  1961  national  referendum 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


on  the  constitution.  Women's  role  in  public  affairs  remained 
minimal,  however,  and  little  was  done  to  change  their  legal  situa- 
tion in  the  first  decade  of  independence. 

Under  Somali  customary  law,  a  woman  was  under  the  legal  pro- 
tection of  a  male — her  father  or  husband,  or  one  of  their  kinsmen 
in  the  event  of  their  deaths.  In  blood  compensation,  her  life  was 
usually  valued  at  half  that  of  a  man.  Islamic  law  permitted  daugh- 
ters to  inherit  half  of  what  was  inherited  by  sons,  but  in  Somali 
practice  daughters  ordinarily  did  not  share  in  the  inheritance  of 
valued  property  (camels  or  land).  Few  girls  attended  school  and 
even  fewer  continued  beyond  the  elementary  level. 

The  revolutionary  government  quickly  changed  women's  legal 
and  political  status.  In  principle,  the  question  of  diya  payment  for 
injuries  to  women  became  moot  following  the  formal  termination 
of  the  traditional  system.  Soon  after  the  revolution,  the  govern- 
ment established  committees  to  deal  with  women's  affairs.  Wom- 
en also  began  participating  in  government,  committees,  sports,  and 
other  social  and  cultural  activities.  In  early  1975,  Siad  Barre  an- 
nounced a  decision  by  the  Supreme  Revolutionary  Council  (SRC) 
and  the  Council  of  Ministers  to  give  equal  rights  to  women  in  several 
respects,  including  equal  inheritance  rights,  a  move  that  led  to  pro- 
tests by  some  Islamic  leaders  (see  Challenges  to  the  Regime,  ch. 
1).  Perhaps  more  important  was  the  government's  insistence  that 
girls  attend  school,  particularly  beyond  the  elementary  level. 

There  were  women  in  visible  public  posts  in  Somalia  in  1990. 
Until  the  1991  collapse  of  the  state,  6  of  the  171  elected  members 
of  the  People's  Assembly  were  women.  Increasing  numbers  of  fe- 
males were  attending  secondary  school  and  university.  Further 
progress  for  women  was  interrupted  by  the  civil  war  and  would 
have  to  await  reconstruction  of  the  country. 

The  Siad  Barre  government  also  acted  in  the  economic  sphere, 
fostering  various  government  agencies  at  the  national,  regional, 
and  local  levels.  The  regime  initiated  some  enterprises  and  placed 
others  under  state  control.  Much  productive  and  distributive  en- 
terprise remained  in  private  hands,  however. 

In  the  rural  areas,  the  government  (beginning  with  colonial  ad- 
ministrations) and  large-scale  private  farmers  had  acquired  much 
of  the  irrigated  land.  In  the  late  1970s,  small-scale  farmers  had 
worked  some  of  the  irrigated  land  and  much  of  the  flood  land,  but 
by  the  mid-1980s  much  of  the  latter  had  been  converted  to  con- 
trolled irrigation  and  had  come  under  state  control.  For  the  most 
part,  rain-fed  land  cultivation  remained  in  the  hands  of  tradition- 
al smallholders  engaged  in  subsistence  farming,  some  of  whom 
earned  the  cash  they  needed  by  working  on  state  farms.  Most 


89 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

extensions  of  the  irrigation  system  facilitated  development  of  large 
state  farms,  rather  than  small  farms.  Some  rural  Somalis  held  no 
land  and  relied  on  wage  labor  on  state  farms  and  large  private  hold- 
ings (chiefly  banana  plantations)  for  their  livelihood. 

Under  Siad  Barre's  regime,  animal  husbandry  remained  primar- 
ily in  the  hands  of  individual  pastoral  Somalis.  The  chief  change 
lay  in  the  readiness  of  these  pastoralists  to  sell  their  livestock  in 
response  to  overseas  demand.  Marketing  was  in  the  hands  of  pri- 
vate traders  who  had  accumulated  enough  capital  to  construct  water 
storage  units  and  invest  in  a  transport  fleet.  In  addition,  a  num- 
ber of  traders  had  enclosed  rangeland  to  produce  hay,  thereby  ex- 
cluding herders  who  formerly  had  used  the  land.  These  traders 
benefited  not  only  from  the  government  construction  of  roads  and 
other  facilities  but  also  from  arrangements  whereby  their  overseas 
earnings  might  be  used  in  part  to  buy  imports  for  domestic  sale. 

Although  income  distinctions  existed  among  Somalis  in  the  pri- 
vate sphere,  until  1991  those  who  combined  comparatively  large 
incomes  with  reasonable  security  were  government  employees  such 
as  administrators,  technical  personnel,  and  managers  of  state-owned 
enterprises.  As  under  the  first  independence  regime,  administra- 
tors did  not  serve  in  their  home  territories  and  were  therefore  not 
linked  by  kinship  to  the  more  affluent  Somalis  in  the  local  private 
sector. 

Despite  the  otherwise  fluid  character  of  the  system,  the  apex  of 
the  local  hierarchy  in  a  rural  setded  area  consisted  of  the  high-level 
(and  to  some  extent  the  middle-level)  representatives  of  the  state. 
These  included  regional  and  local  administrators,  managers  of  state 
farms  and  agro-industries  such  as  the  sugar  refinery  at  Giohar,  tech- 
nicians, and  highly  skilled  workers.  Members  of  this  group  had 
relatively  high  incomes  and  could  be  reasonably  sure  of  seeing  that 
their  children  finished  school,  an  important  prerequisite  to  find- 
ing a  good  position.  Because  they  often  determined  the  flow  of 
resources  to  the  private  sector,  this  elite  group  exercised  economic 
power  greater  than  that  of  wealthy  merchants  or  large  landholders 
whose  income  might  be  the  same  as,  or  larger  than,  theirs. 

At  the  bottom  of  the  economic  hierarchy  were  most  rural  Somalis, 
whether  sedentary  or  nomadic.  Living  primarily  by  subsistence 
cropping  or  herding,  they  sold  what  they  could.  They  had  little 
contact  with  government  and  had  been  relatively  untouched  by  de- 
velopment projects  because  of  their  isolation  or  insufficient  govern- 
ment efforts  to  reach  them.  The  farmers  among  them  cultivated 
the  poorest  land  and  barely  earned  survival  incomes  with  wage 
work.  The  pastoralists  were  most  affected  by  the  demands  of  a  diffi- 
cult environment.  Beginning  in  the  late  1970s,  limits  on  migration 


90 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


resulting  from  hostile  relations  between  Somalia  and  Ethiopia 
caused  them  additional  hardship. 

As  of  the  early  1990s,  two  other  significant  categories  of  rural 
residents  were  workers  whose  wages  derived  from  state-owned  or 
state- sponsored  activities,  and  landholders  or  herders  who  operat- 
ed on  a  smaller  scale  than  the  plantation  owners.  Neither  of  these 
categories  was  homogeneous.  Wage  workers  ranged  from  landless, 
and  relatively  unskilled  agricultural  workers  whose  income  might 
be  intermittent,  to  low-level  workers  in  government  agencies  whose 
income  was  likely  to  be  steadier  and  who  might  be  heads  of  or  mem- 
bers of  families  with  subsistence  farms  or  herds.  Plots  or  herds 
owned  by  farmers  or  herders  varied  considerably  in  size  and  qual- 
ity, as  did  the  income  derived  from  them.  Nevertheless,  farmers 
and  herders  fared  better  than  subsistence  farmers.  They  joined 
cooperatives,  took  advantage  of  adult  education,  and  participated 
in  government  programs  that  promised  to  enhance  their  incomes 
and  the  status  of  the  next  generation.  Members  of  this  category 
sent  their  children  to  school  and  arranged  for  some  of  them  to  seek 
more  lucrative  or  prestigious  employment  in  Mogadishu  or  other 
large  towns. 

Rural  petty  traders  did  not  clearly  belong  to  any  one  economic 
category.  Their  incomes  were  not  large,  but  equaled  those  of  many 
lower-level  wage  workers  and  small-scale  market-oriented  farmers. 

Particularly  in  Mogadishu,  the  national  capital  and  the  largest 
town,  another  social  pattern  developed  prior  to  the  fall  of  the  Siad 
Barre  regime.  Because  of  their  incomes  and  the  power  they  wield- 
ed, the  highest  party  and  government  officials  became  the  new  apex 
of  Somali  society.  In  the  early  1990s,  the  salaries  and  allowances 
of  cabinet  ministers  were  twice  those  of  the  next  highest  officials, 
the  directors  general  of  ministries,  and  nearly  twenty-five  times 
those  of  the  lowest  levels  of  the  civil  service.  Below  the  ministers 
and  directors  general  but  well  above  the  clerks  of  the  bureaucracy 
were  other  high-level  administrators,  executives,  and  skilled  per- 
sonnel. For  instance,  the  manager  of  a  large  state-owned  factory 
earned  somewhat  less  than  a  minister  but  more  than  a  director 
general.  An  unskilled  laborer  in  a  state  farm  earned  less  than  the 
poorest-paid  civil  servant,  but  an  unskilled  worker  in  a  factory 
earned  a  little  more.  Unskilled  farm  and  factory  workers  and 
bottom-level  government  employees  earned  only  5  to  10  percent 
of  a  manager's  salary. 

As  in  the  rural  areas,  in  the  towns  there  were  many  people  in- 
volved in  the  private  sector.  In  some  respects,  merchants  and  traders 
had  the  deepest  urban  roots.  Most  of  them  were  petty  traders  and 


91 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

shopkeepers  whose  income  and  status  were  closer  to  those  of  crafts- 
men than  to  those  of  the  wealthier  merchants. 

In  the  mid-1970s,  a  manufacturing  census  indicated  that  about 
6,000  enterprises  in  Somalia  employed  five  or  fewer  persons,  most 
of  them  probably  family  members.  Unlike  the  larger,  often  foreign- 
owned  industrial  concerns,  these  had  not  been  nationalized. 

Most  urban  dwellers  were  wage  workers,  but  they  had  various 
skills,  sources  of  employment,  and  incomes.  For  example,  low-  and 
middle-level  clerks  in  the  government  bureaucracy  and  in  state  en- 
terprises earned  no  more  (and  sometimes  less)  than  skilled  arti- 
sans in  state  firms,  and  both  earned  perhaps  twice  as  much  as 
unskilled  factory  laborers. 

The  situation  of  the  urban  population  had  changed  radically  by 
early  1992.  Following  the  fall  of  Siad  Barre,  urban  areas  consisted 
largely  of  refugees  or  war  victims  who  had  migrated  from  the  coun- 
tryside after  the  civil  war  began. 

Lineage  Segmentation  and  the  Somali  Civil  War 

From  the  early  1980s  to  the  early  1990s,  Somali  society  under- 
went a  profound  crisis — of  identity,  purpose,  and  direction — that 
threatened  its  very  existence.  As  a  result  of  its  humiliating  1977-78 
defeat  in  the  Ogaden  War  with  Ethiopia,  the  revolutionary  regime 
began  to  founder  (see  The  Ogaden  War:  Performance  and  Impli- 
cations of  Defeat,  ch.  5).  Confronted  by  armed  opposition  at  home 
and  diplomatic  isolation  abroad,  the  regime  turned  inward.  Presi- 
dent Siad  Barre,  an  expert  in  the  art  of  dividing  and  ruling  since 
his  early  days  as  an  intelligence  officer  under  the  Italian  fascists, 
skillfully  harnessed  the  limited  resources  of  the  state.  His  aim  was 
to  pit  clan  against  clan  and  to  inflame  clan  passions  in  order  to 
divert  public  attention  from  his  increasingly  vulnerable  regime. 

A  civil  war  began  in  the  early  1980s  with  an  armed  uprising 
against  the  regime  by  Majeerteen  clans  (Daarood)  in  southern 
Somalia  under  the  banner  of  the  Somali  Salvation  Democratic  Front 
(SSDF).  Armed  resistance  spread  to  the  Isaaq  clans  in  the  north. 
The  regime's  efforts  to  suppress  Isaaq  resistance  resulted  in  May 
1988  in  the  virtual  destruction  of  the  urban  centers  of  the  north, 
most  notably  Hargeysa,  until  then  the  second  largest  city  in  the 
country,  and  Burao,  a  provincial  capital.  This  action  was  followed 
in  mid- 1989  by  a  massive  uprising  by  the  Hawiye  clans  in 
Mogadishu  and  adjacent  regions  under  the  leadership  of  the  clan- 
based  United  Somali  Congress  (USC).  In  the  escalating  waves  of 
government  repression  and  resulting  popular  resistance  that  fol- 
lowed, Somali  society  exploded  into  violence  and  anarchy,  and  Siad 
Barre  and  his  remaining  supporters  were  forced  to  flee  in  early  1991 . 


92 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Instead  of  peace,  Somalia  experienced  a  power  struggle  among 
various  clan-  and  region-based  organizations:  the  Somali  Nation- 
al Movement  (SNM,  I saaq- affiliated);  the  SSDF  (Majeerteen);  the 
Somali  Patriotic  Movement  (SPM,  Ogaden);  the  Somali  Democrat- 
ic Alliance  (SDA,  Gadabursi);  and  the  Somali  Democratic  Move- 
ment (SDM,  Rahanwayn).  Lineages  and  sublineages,  fighting  over 
the  spoils  of  state,  turned  on  one  another  in  an  orgy  of  internecine 
killings  (see  Somalia's  Difficult  Decade,  1980-90,  ch.  1).  The  state 
collapsed,  and  Somali  society  splintered  into  its  component  clans. 

The  collapse  resulted  from  certain  features  of  Somali  lineage  seg- 
mentation. Somali  clan  organization  is  an  unstable,  fragile  system, 
characterized  at  all  levels  by  shifting  allegiances.  This  segmenta- 
tion goes  down  to  the  household  level  with  the  children  of  a  man's 
two  wives  sometimes  turning  on  one  another  on  the  basis  of  mater- 
nal lines.  Power  is  exercised  through  temporary  coalitions  and 
ephemeral  alliances  between  lineages.  A  given  alliance  fragments 
into  competitive  units  as  soon  as  the  situation  that  necessitated  it 
ceases  to  exist.  In  urban  settings,  for  example,  where  relatively  large 
economic  and  political  stakes  are  contested,  the  whole  population 
may  be  polarized  into  two  opposing  camps  of  clan  alliances.  To 
varying  degrees,  the  poles  of  power  in  the  politics  of  independent 
Somalia  generally  have  tended  to  form  around  the  Daarood  clan- 
family  and  a  confederacy  of  the  Hawiye  and  the  Isaaq  clan-families. 

Two  features  of  lineage  segmentation  require  further  comment. 
First,  the  system  lacks  a  concept  of  individual  culpability.  When 
a  man  commits  a  homicide,  for  example,  the  guilt  does  not  remain 
with  him  solely  as  an  individual  murderer  as  in  most  Western  so- 
cieties; the  crime  is  attributed  to  all  of  the  murderer's  kin,  who 
become  guilty  in  the  eyes  of  the  aggrieved  party  by  reason  of  their 
blood  connection  with  the  perpetrator.  Members  of  the  aggrieved 
group  then  seek  revenge,  not  just  on  the  perpetrator,  but  on  any 
member  of  his  lineage  they  might  chance  upon.  In  the  Somali  lin- 
eage system,  one  literally  may  get  away  with  murder  because  the 
actual  killer  may  escape  while  an  innocent  kinsman  of  his  may  be 
killed.  Second,  the  system  is  vulnerable  to  external  manipulation 
by,  for  example,  a  head  of  state  such  as  Siad  Barre,  who  used  the 
resources  of  the  state  to  reward  and  punish  entire  clans  collective- 
ly. This  was  the  fate  of  the  Isaaq  and  Majeerteen  clans,  which 
suffered  grievous  persecutions  under  Siad  Barre' s  regime. 

The  meaning  of  segmentation  is  captured  in  an  Arab  beduin 
saying:  My  full  brother  and  I  against  my  half-brother,  my  brother 
and  I  against  my  father,  my  father's  household  against  my  uncle's 
household,  our  two  households  (my  uncle's  and  mine)  against  the 
rest  of  the  immediate  kin,  the  immediate  kin  against  non-immediate 


93 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

members  of  my  clan,  my  clan  against  other  clans,  and,  finally,  my 
nation  and  I  against  the  world.  In  a  system  of  lineage  segmenta- 
tion, one  does  not  have  a  permanent  enemy  or  a  permanent 
friend — only  a  permanent  context.  Depending  on  the  context,  a 
man,  a  group  of  men,  or  even  a  state  may  be  one's  friends  or  foes. 
This  fact  partially  explains  why  opposition  Somalis  did  not  hesi- 
tate to  cross  over  to  Ethiopia,  the  supposed  quintessential  foe  of 
Somalis.  Ethiopia  was  being  treated  by  the  Somali  opposition  as 
another  clan  for  purposes  of  temporary  alliance  in  the  intermina- 
ble shifting  coalitions  of  Somali  pastoral  clan  politics. 

Lineage  segmentation  of  the  Somali  variety  thus  inherently  mili- 
tates against  the  evolution  and  endurance  of  a  stable,  centralized 
state.  Although  exacerbated  by  Siad  Barre's  exploitation  of  inter- 
clan  rivalries,  institutional  instability  is  actually  woven  into  the  fabric 
of  Somali  society.  The  collapse  of  the  Siad  Barre  regime  in  early 
1991  led  to  interclan  civil  war  that  was  continuing  in  1992. 

Religious  Life 

Most  Somalis  are  Sunni  Muslims.  (Less  than  1  percent  of  eth- 
nic Somalis  are  Christians.)  Loyalty  to  Islam  reinforces  distinc- 
tions that  set  Somalis  apart  from  their  immediate  African  neighbors, 
most  of  whom  are  either  Christians  (particularly  the  Amhara  and 
others  of  Ethiopia)  or  adherents  of  indigenous  African  faiths. 

The  Islamic  ideal  is  a  society  organized  to  implement  Muslim 
precepts  in  which  no  distinction  exists  between  the  secular  and  the 
religious  spheres.  Among  Somalis  this  ideal  had  been  approximated 
less  fully  in  the  north  than  among  some  groups  in  the  settled  regions 
of  the  south  where  religious  leaders  were  at  one  time  an  integral 
part  of  the  social  and  political  structure.  Among  nomads,  the  ex- 
igencies of  pastoral  life  gave  greater  weight  to  the  warrior's  role, 
and  religious  leaders  were  expected  to  remain  aloof  from  political 
matters. 

The  role  of  religious  functionaries  began  to  shrink  in  the  1950s 
and  1 960s  as  some  of  their  legal  and  educational  powers  and  respon- 
sibilities were  transferred  to  secular  authorities.  The  position  of 
religious  leaders  changed  substantially  after  the  1969  revolution 
and  the  introduction  of  scientific  socialism.  Siad  Barre  insisted  that 
his  version  of  socialism  was  compatible  with  Quranic  principles, 
and  he  condemned  atheism.  Religious  leaders,  however,  were 
warned  not  to  meddle  in  politics. 

The  new  government  instituted  legal  changes  that  some  religious 
figures  saw  as  contrary  to  Islamic  precepts.  The  regime  reacted 
sharply  to  criticism,  executing  some  of  the  protesters  (see  Islam 


94 


Modern  mosque  in 


Mogadishu    ||  |1 
Courtesy 


R.W.S.  Hudson 


Italian-built  Roman 
Catholic  cathedral 
in  Mogadishu, 
subsequently  gutted 
by  bombs 
in  the  civil  war 
Courtesy 
R.W.S.  Hudson 


95 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

in  the  Colonial  Era  and  After,  this  ch.).  Subsequently,  religious 
leaders  seemed  to  accommodate  themselves  to  the  government. 

The  Tenets  of  Islam 

Founded  in  A.D.  622  when  the  Prophet  Muhammad  migrated 
with  his  followers  from  Mecca  to  Medina,  Islam  was  probably 
brought  to  Somalia  by  early  followers  of  the  Prophet  who  sought 
refuge  from  persecution  in  Mecca.  It  is  also  possible  that  Islam 
came  to  Somalia  through  contacts  with  Persian  and  Arab  merchants 
and  seamen  who  founded  settlements  along  the  Somali  coast  1,000 
or  more  years  ago  (see  Coastal  Towns,  ch.  1).  Before  Islam  spread 
among  Somalis,  quarrels  over  the  succession  to  leadership  had  led 
to  a  split  of  the  Islamic  community  into  the  Sunni  (orthodox)  and 
the  Shia  (from  &hiat  Ali,  or  partisans  of  Ali  as  the  legitimate  suc- 
cessor to  Muhammad).  The  overwhelming  majority  of  Somalis  are 
Sunni  Muslims. 

The  word  islam  means  "submission"  and  a  Muslim  is  one  who 
has  submitted  to  God.  The  religion's  basic  tenet  is  stated  in  its  creed: 
'  'There  is  no  god  but  God  (Allah)  and  Muhammad  is  His  prophet. ' ' 
Recitation  of  the  creed,  daily  prayers  performed  according  to 
prescribed  rules,  fasting  during  the  lunar  month  of  Ramadan  (when 
Muhammad  received  his  initial  revelations),  almsgiving,  and  the 
pilgrimage  to  Mecca  constitute  the  five  pillars  of  the  faith.  Four 
of  these  duties  may  be  modified  by  the  situation  in  which  believers 
find  themselves.  If  they  are  ill,  they  may  pray  without  prostrations 
and  reduce  the  number  of  times  they  pray  from  the  obligatory  five 
to  three.  Muslims  may  be  excused  from  fasting  (going  without  food, 
drink,  tobacco,  and  sexual  relations  from  dawn  until  sunset)  dur- 
ing a  journey,  but  should  compensate  at  a  later  time.  Participa- 
tion in  almsgiving  and  the  pilgrimage  depend  upon  one's  ability 
to  afford  them. 

The  basic  teaching  of  Islam  is  embodied  in  the  Quran,  believed 
to  have  been  given  to  Muhammad  by  God  through  the  angel 
Gabriel.  After  Muhammad's  death,  his  followers  sought  to  regu- 
late their  lives  by  his  divinely  inspired  works;  if  the  Quran  did  not 
cover  a  specific  situation,  they  turned  to  the  hadith  (tradition, 
remembered  actions,  and  sayings  of  the  Prophet).  Together,  the 
Quran  and  the  hadith  form  the  sunna  (custom  or  usage),  a  com- 
prehensive guide  to  the  spiritual,  ethical,  and  social  life  of  Muslims. 

Islamic  sharia  or  religious  law  derives  from  the  Quran,  the  hadith, 
and  from  a  large  body  of  interpretive  commentary  that  developed 
in  the  early  Islamic  period.  Several  schools  of  legal  thought  arose, 
among  them  the  Shafii  school  (named  for  Muhammad  ibn  Idris 
ash  Shafii,  767-820),  which  is  represented  in  Somalia.  The  sharia 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


covers  several  categories  of  behavior:  obligatory  actions,  desirable 
or  recommended  actions,  indifferent  actions,  objectionable  but  not 
forbidden  actions,  and  prohibited  actions.  The  five  pillars  of  the 
faith  fall  in  the  first  category;  night-long  prayer  in  the  second,  and 
many  ordinary  secular  activities  in  the  third.  Divorce  is  in  the  ob- 
jectionable but  permitted  category,  whereas  adultery  and  other  sin- 
ful acts  are  prohibited. 

Settled  and  nomadic  Somalis  conformed  to  Muslim  requirements 
for  ritual  purity,  such  as  washing  after  contact  with  unclean  things. 
Some  settled  Somalis,  particularly  in  communities  founded  by  re- 
ligious orders,  were  more  likely  to  observe  Islamic  requirements 
than  were  nomads.  By  the  1960s,  ordinary  settled  Somalis  were 
likely  to  pay  less  attention  to  religious  observance.  Devout  Soma- 
lis, and  others  who  valued  the  title  of  hajj  (pilgrim)  for  its  prestige, 
might  make  the  pilgrimage  to  Mecca,  but  many  more  would  visit 
the  tombs  of  the  local  saints  (see  Religious  Orders  and  the  Cult 
of  the  Saints,  this  ch.). 

Religious  Roles  in  Somali  Islam 

In  Islam,  no  priests  mediate  between  the  believer  and  God,  but 
there  are  religious  teachers,  preachers,  and  mosque  officials.  Un- 
til the  civil  war  in  Somalia,  religious  training  was  most  readily  avail- 
able in  urban  centers  or  wherever  mosques  existed.  There  boys 
learned  to  memorize  parts  of  the  Quran.  Some  teachers  traveled 
on  foot  from  place  to  place  with  their  novices,  depending  on  the 
generosity  of  others  for  their  living.  The  teachers  served  the  com- 
munity by  preaching,  leading  prayers,  blessing  the  people  and  their 
livestock,  counseling,  arbitrating  disputes,  and  performing  mar- 
riages. Few  teachers  were  deeply  versed  in  Islam,  and  they  rarely 
stayed  with  one  lineage  long  enough  to  teach  more  than  rudimen- 
tary religious  principles. 

In  the  absence  of  a  wandering  teacher,  nomads  depended  on  a 
person  associated  with  religious  devotion,  study,  or  leadership, 
called  a  wadad  (pi.,  wadaddo).  The  wadaddo  constituted  the  oldest 
stratum  of  literate  people  in  Somalia.  They  functioned  as  basic 
teachers  and  local  notaries  as  well  as  judges  and  authorities  in  reli- 
gious law.  They  were  rarely  theologians;  some  belonged  to  a  reli- 
gious brotherhood,  or  to  a  lineage  with  a  strong  religious  tradition. 
In  the  latter  case,  they  were  not  necessarily  trained,  but  were  enti- 
tled to  lead  prayers  and  to  perform  ritual  sacrifices  at  weddings, 
on  special  holidays,  and  during  festivals  held  at  the  tombs  of  saints. 

Religious  Orders  and  the  Cult  of  the  Saints 

Religious  orders  have  played  a  significant  role  in  Somali  Islam. 


97 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

The  rise  of  these  orders  {turuq;  sing.,  tariqa,  "way"  or  "path")  was 
connected  with  the  development  of  Sufism,  a  mystical  current  in 
Islam  that  began  during  the  ninth  and  tenth  centuries  and  reached 
its  height  during  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth.  In  Somalia  Sufi  or- 
ders appeared  in  towns  during  the  fifteenth  century  and  rapidly 
became  a  revitalizing  force.  Followers  of  Sufism  seek  a  closer  per- 
sonal relationship  to  God  through  special  spiritual  disciplines.  Es- 
cape from  self  is  facilitated  by  poverty,  seclusion,  and  other  forms 
of  self-denial.  Members  of  Sufi  orders  are  commonly  called  der- 
vishes (from  the  Persian  plural,  daraawish;  sing.,  darwish,  one  who 
gave  up  worldly  concerns  to  dedicate  himself  to  the  service  of  God 
and  community).  Leaders  of  branches  or  congregations  of  these 
orders  are  given  the  Arabic  title  shaykh,  a  term  usually  reserved 
for  these  learned  in  Islam  and  rarely  applied  to  ordinary  wadaddo. 

Dervishes  wander  from  place  to  place,  teaching  and  begging. 
They  are  best  known  for  their  ceremonies,  called  dhikr  (see  Glos- 
sary), in  which  states  of  visionary  ecstasy  are  induced  by  group- 
chanting  of  religious  texts  and  by  rhythmic  gestures,  dancing,  and 
deep  breathing.  The  object  is  to  free  oneself  from  the  body  and 
to  be  lifted  into  the  presence  of  God.  Dervishes  have  been  impor- 
tant as  founders  of  agricultural  religious  communities  called  jamaat 
(sing. ,  jamaa).  A  few  of  these  were  home  to  celibate  men  only,  but 
usually  the  jamaat  were  inhabited  by  families.  Most  Somalis  were 
nominal  members  of  Sufi  orders  but  few  underwent  the  rigors  of 
devotion  to  the  religious  life,  even  for  a  short  time. 

Three  Sufi  orders  were  prominent  in  Somalia.  In  order  of  their 
introduction  into  the  country,  they  were  the  Qadiriyah,  the 
Ahmadiyah-Idrisiyah,  and  the  Salihiyah.  The  Rifaiyah,  an  offshoot 
of  the  Qadiriyah,  was  represented  mainly  among  Arabs  resident 
in  Mogadishu. 

The  Qadiriyah,  the  oldest  order  in  Islam,  was  founded  in  Bagh- 
dad by  Abd  al  Qadir  al  Jilani  in  1166  and  introduced  into  Harer 
(Ethiopia)  in  the  fifteenth  century.  During  the  eighteenth  centu- 
ry, it  was  spread  among  the  Oromo  and  Somalis  of  Ethiopia,  often 
under  the  leadership  of  Somali  shaykhs.  Its  earliest  known  advo- 
cate in  northern  Somalia  was  Shaykh  Abd  ar  Rahman  az  Zeilawi, 
who  died  in  1883.  At  that  time,  Qadiriyah  adherents  were  mer- 
chants in  the  ports  and  elsewhere.  In  a  separate  development,  the 
Qadiriyah  order  also  spread  into  the  southern  Somali  port  cities 
of  Baraawe  and  Mogadishu  at  an  uncertain  date.  In  1819  Shaykh 
Ibrahim  Hassan  Jebro  acquired  land  on  the  Jubba  River  and  es- 
tablished a  religious  center  in  the  form  of  a  farming  community, 
the  first  Somali  jamaa. 


98 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

Outstanding  figures  of  the  Qadiriyah  in  Somalia  included  Shaykh 
Awes  Mahammad  Baraawi  (d.  1909),  who  spread  the  teaching  of 
the  order  in  the  southern  interior.  He  wrote  much  devotional  poetry 
in  Arabic  and  attempted  to  translate  traditional  hymns  from  Arabic 
into  Somali,  working  out  his  own  phonetic  system.  Another  was 
Shaykh  Abdirrahman  Abdullah  of  Mogadishu,  who  stressed  deep 
mysticism.  Because  of  his  reputation  for  sanctity,  his  tomb  at 
Mogadishu  became  a  pilgrimage  center  for  the  Shabeelle  area  and 
his  writings  continued  to  be  circulated  by  his  followers  in  the  early 
1990s. 

The  Ahmadiyah-Idrisiyah  order  was  founded  by  Ahmad  ibn  Idris 
al  Fasi  (1760-1837)  of  Mecca.  It  was  brought  to  Somalia  by  Shaykh 
Ali  Maye  Durogba  of  Merca,  a  distinguished  poet  who  joined  the 
order  during  a  pilgrimage  to  Mecca.  His  visions  and  the  miracles 
attributed  to  him  gained  him  a  reputation  for  sanctity,  and  his  tomb 
became  a  popular  objective  among  pilgrims.  The  Ahmadiyah- 
Idrisiyah,  the  smallest  of  the  three  orders,  has  few  ritual  require- 
ments beyond  some  simple  prayers  and  hymns.  During  its  ceremo- 
nies, however,  participants  often  go  into  trances. 

A  conflict  over  the  leadership  of  the  Ahmadiyah-Idrisiyah  among 
its  Arab  founders  led  to  the  establishment  of  the  Salihiyah  in  1887 
by  Muhammad  ibn  Salih.  The  order  spread  first  among  the  Somalis 
of  the  Ogaden  area  of  Ethiopia,  who  entered  Somalia  about  1880. 
The  Salihiyah' s  most  active  proselytizer  was  Shaykh  Mahammad 
Guled  ar  Rashidi,  who  became  a  regional  leader.  He  settled  among 
the  Shidle  people  (Bantu-speakers  occupying  the  middle  reaches 
of  the  Shabeelle  River),  where  he  obtained  land  and  established 
ajamaa.  Later  he  founded  another  jamaa  among  the  Ujuuraan  (a 
section  of  the  Hawiye  clan-family)  and  then  returned  to  establish 
still  another  community  among  the  Shidle  before  his  death  in  1918. 
Perhaps  the  best  known  Somali  Salihiyah  figure  was  Mahammad 
Abdille  Hasan,  leader  of  a  lengthy  resistance  to  the  British  until 
1920  (see  Sayyid  Mahammad' s  Dervish  Resistance  to  Colonial  Oc- 
cupation, ch.  1). 

Generally,  the  Salihiyah  and  the  Ahmadiyah-Idrisiyah  leaders 
were  more  interested  in  the  establishment  of  jamaat  along  the 
Shabeelle  and  Jubba  rivers  and  the  fertile  land  between  them  than 
in  teaching  because  few  were  learned  in  Islam.  Their  early  efforts 
to  establish  farming  communities  resulted  in  cooperative  cultiva- 
tion and  harvesting  and  some  effective  agricultural  methods.  In 
Somalia's  riverine  region,  for  example,  only  jamaat  members 
thought  of  stripping  the  brush  from  areas  around  their  fields  to 
reduce  the  breeding  places  of  tsetse  flies. 


99 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Local  leaders  of  brotherhoods  customarily  asked  lineage  heads 
in  the  areas  where  they  wished  to  settle  for  permission  to  build  their 
mosques  and  communities.  A  piece  of  land  was  usually  freely  given; 
often  it  was  an  area  between  two  clans  or  one  in  which  nomads 
had  access  to  a  river.  The  presence  of  a  jamaa  not  only  provided 
a  buffer  zone  between  two  hostile  groups,  but  also  caused  the  giver 
to  acquire  a  blessing  since  the  land  was  considered  given  to  God. 
Tenure  was  a  matter  of  charity  only,  however,  and  sometimes  be- 
came precarious  in  case  of  disagreements.  No  statistics  were  avail- 
able in  1990  on  the  number  of  such  settlements,  but  in  the  1950s 
there  were  more  than  ninety  in  the  south,  with  a  total  of  about 
35,000  members.  Most  were  in  the  Bakool,  Gedo,  and  Bay  regions 
or  along  the  middle  and  lower  Shabeelle  River.  There  were  few 
jamaat  in  other  regions  because  the  climate  and  soil  did  not  en- 
courage agricultural  settlements. 

Membership  in  a  brotherhood  is  theoretically  a  voluntary  mat- 
ter unrelated  to  kinship.  However,  lineages  are  often  affiliated  with 
a  specific  brotherhood  and  a  man  usually  joins  his  father's  order. 
Initiation  is  followed  by  a  ceremony  during  which  the  order's  dhikr 
is  celebrated.  Novices  swear  to  accept  the  branch  head  as  their 
spiritual  guide. 

Each  order  has  its  own  hierarchy  that  is  supposedly  a  substitute 
for  the  kin  group  from  which  the  members  have  separated  them- 
selves. Veneration  is  given  to  previous  heads  of  the  order,  known 
as  the  Chain  of  Blessing,  rather  than  to  ancestors.  This  practice 
is  especially  followed  in  the  south,  where  place  of  residence  tends 
to  have  more  significance  than  lineage. 

Leaders  of  orders  and  their  branches  and  of  specific  congrega- 
tions are  said  to  have  baraka,  a  state  of  blessedness  implying  an 
inner  spiritual  power  that  is  inherent  in  the  religious  office  and  may 
cling  to  the  tomb  of  a  revered  leader,  who,  upon  death,  is  considered 
a  saint.  However,  some  saints  are  venerated  because  of  their  reli- 
gious reputations  whether  or  not  they  were  associated  with  an  or- 
der or  one  of  its  communities.  Sainthood  also  has  been  ascribed  to 
others  because  of  their  status  as  founders  of  clans  or  large  lineages. 
Northern  pastoral  nomads  are  likely  to  honor  lineage  founders  as 
saints;  sedentary  Somalis  revere  saints  for  their  piety  and  baraka. 

Because  of  the  saint's  spiritual  presence  at  his  tomb,  pilgrims 
journey  there  to  seek  aid  (such  as  a  cure  for  illness  or  infertility). 
Members  of  the  saint's  order  also  visit  the  tomb,  particularly  on 
the  anniversaries  of  his  birth  and  death. 

Folk  Islam  and  Indigenous  Ritual 

Somalis  have  modified  Islam,  for  example  with  reference  to  the 


100 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


social  significance  of  baraka.  Baraka  is  considered  a  gift  from  God 
to  the  founders  and  heads  of  Sufi  orders.  It  is  likewise  associated 
with  secular  leaders  and  their  clan  genealogies. 

A  leader  has  power  to  bless,  but  his  baraka  may  have  potential- 
ly dangerous  side  effects.  His  curse  is  greatly  feared,  and  his  pow- 
er may  harm  others.  When  a  clan  leader  visits  the  leader  of  another 
clan,  the  host's  relative  receives  him  first  to  draw  off  some  of  the 
visitor's  power  so  that  his  own  chief  may  not  be  injured. 

The  traditional  learning  of  a  wadad  includes  a  form  of  folk  as- 
tronomy based  on  stellar  movements  and  related  to  seasonal 
changes.  Its  primary  objective  is  to  signal  the  times  for  migration, 
but  it  may  also  be  used  to  set  the  dates  of  rituals  that  are  specifi- 
cally Somali.  This  folk  knowledge  is  also  used  in  ritual  methods 
of  healing  and  averting  misfortune,  as  well  as  for  divination. 

Wadaddo  help  avert  misfortune  by  making  protective  amulets  and 
charms  that  transmit  some  of  their  baraka  to  others,  or  by  adding 
the  Quran's  baraka  to  the  amulet  through  a  written  passage.  The 
baraka  of  a  saint  may  be  obtained  in  the  form  of  an  object  that 
has  touched  or  been  placed  near  his  tomb. 

Although  wadaddo  may  use  their  power  to  curse  as  a  sanction, 
misfortune  generally  is  not  attributed  to  curses  or  witchcraft.  Soma- 
lis  have  accepted  the  orthodox  Muslim  view  that  a  man's  conduct 
will  be  judged  in  an  afterlife.  However,  a  person  who  commits  a 
forbidden  act,  such  as  patricide,  is  thought  possessed  of  supernatural 
evil  powers. 

Despite  formal  Islam's  uncompromising  monotheism,  Muslims 
everywhere  believe  in  the  existence  of  mortal  spirits  (jinn),  said 
to  be  descended  from  Iblis,  a  spirit  fallen  from  heaven.  Most  Somalis 
consider  all  spirits  to  be  evil  but  some  believe  there  are  benevolent 
spirits. 

Certain  kinds  of  illness,  including  tuberculosis  and  pneumonia, 
or  symptoms  such  as  sneezing,  coughing,  vomiting,  and  loss  of  con- 
sciousness, are  believed  to  result  from  spirit  possession,  namely, 
the  wadaddo  of  the  spirit  world.  The  condition  is  treated  by  a  hu- 
man wadad,  preferably  one  who  has  himself  recovered  from  the  sick- 
ness. He  reads  portions  of  the  Quran  over  the  patient  and  bathes 
him  with  perfume,  which  in  Somalia  is  associated  with  religious 
celebrations. 

In  the  case  of  possession  by  the  zar,  a  spirit,  the  ceremony  of 
exorcism  used  to  treat  it  is  sometimes  referred  to  as  the  ilzar  cult." 
The  victims  are  women  with  grievances  against  their  husbands. 
The  symptoms  are  extreme  forms  of  hysteria  and  fainting  fits.  The 
zar  exorcism  ritual  is  conducted  by  a  woman  who  has  had  the  afflic- 
tion and  thus  supposedly  has  some  authority  over  the  spirit.  The 


101 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

ritual  consists  of  a  special  dance  in  which  the  victim  tends  to 
reproduce  the  symptoms  and  fall  into  a  trance.  The  "illness"  en- 
ables a  disgruntled  wife  to  express  her  hostility  without  actually 
quarreling  with  her  husband. 

A  third  kind  of  spirit  possession  is  known  as  gelid  (entering),  in 
which  the  spirit  of  an  injured  person  troubles  the  offender.  A  jilt- 
ed girl,  for  example,  cannot  openly  complain  if  a  promise  of  mar- 
riage arranged  by  the  respective  families  has  been  broken.  Her 
spirit,  however,  entering  the  young  man  who  was  supposed  to  marry 
her  and  stating  the  grievance,  causes  him  to  fall  ill.  The  exorcism 
consists  of  readings  from  the  Quran  and  commands  from  a  wadad 
that  the  spirit  leave  the  afflicted  person. 

Gelid  is  also  thought  to  be  caused  by  the  curse  or  evil  power  of 
a  helpless  person  who  has  been  injured.  The  underlying  notion  is 
that  those  who  are  weak  in  worldly  matters  are  mystically  endowed. 
Such  persons  are  supposed  to  be  under  the  special  protection  of 
God,  and  kind  acts  toward  them  bring  religious  merit,  whereas 
unkind  acts  bring  punishment.  The  evil  eye,  too,  is  associated  with 
unfortunates,  especially  women.  Thus,  members  of  the  Yibir,  the 
numerically  smallest  and  weakest  of  the  special  occupation  groups 
and  traditionally  the  lowliest  socially,  are  the  most  feared  for  their 
supernatural  powers. 

Somalis  also  engage  in  rituals  that  derive  from  preTslamic  prac- 
tices and  in  some  cases  resemble  those  of  other  Eastern  Cushitic- 
speaking  peoples.  Perhaps  the  most  important  of  these  rituals  are 
the  annual  celebrations  of  the  clan  ancestor  among  northern 
Somalis — an  expression  of  their  solidarity — and  the  collective  rain- 
making  ritual  (roobdoori)  performed  by  sedentary  groups  in  the  south. 

Islam  in  the  Colonial  Era  and  After 

Because  Muslims  believe  that  their  faith  was  revealed  in  its  com- 
plete form  to  the  Prophet  Muhammad,  it  has  been  difficult  to  adapt 
Islam  to  the  social,  economic,  and  political  changes  that  began  with 
the  expansion  of  colonial  rule  in  the  late  nineteenth  century.  Some 
modifications  have  occurred,  however.  One  response  was  to  stress 
a  return  to  orthodox  Muslim  traditions  and  to  oppose  Westerni- 
zation totally.  The  Sufi  brotherhoods  were  at  the  forefront  of  this 
movement,  personified  in  Somalia  by  Mahammad  Abdille  Hasan 
in  the  early  1900s.  Generally,  the  leaders  of  Islamic  orders  opposed 
the  spread  of  Western  education. 

Another  response  was  to  reform  Islam  by  reinterpreting  it.  From 
this  perspective,  early  Islam  was  seen  as  a  protest  against  abuse, 
corruption,  and  inequality;  reformers  therefore  attempted  to  prove 
that  Muslim  scriptures  contained  all  elements  needed  to  deal  with 


102 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


modernization.  To  this  school  of  thought  belongs  Islamic  social- 
ism, identified  particularly  with  Egyptian  nationalist  Gamal  Ab- 
dul Nasser  (1918-70).  His  ideas  appealed  to  a  number  of  Somalis, 
especially  those  who  had  studied  in  Cairo  in  the  1950s  and  1960s. 

The  1961  constitution  guaranteed  freedom  of  religion  but  also 
declared  the  newly  independent  republic  an  Islamic  state.  The  first 
two  postindependence  governments  paid  lip  service  to  the  princi- 
ples of  Islamic  socialism  but  made  relatively  few  changes.  The  coup 
of  October  21,  1969,  installed  a  radical  regime  committed  to  pro- 
found change.  Soon  after,  Xiddigta  Oktoobar  (October  Star),  the  offi- 
cial SRC  paper,  published  an  editorial  about  relations  between 
Islam  and  socialism  and  the  differences  between  scientific  and  Is- 
lamic socialism.  Islamic  socialism  was  said  to  have  become  a  ser- 
vant of  capitalism  and  neocolonialism  and  a  tool  manipulated  by 
a  privileged,  rich,  and  powerful  class.  In  contrast,  scientific  socialism 
was  based  on  the  altruistic  values  that  inspired  genuine  Islam.  Re- 
ligious leaders  should  therefore  leave  secular  affairs  to  the  new  lead- 
ers who  were  striving  for  goals  that  conformed  with  Islamic 
principles.  Soon  after,  the  government  arrested  several  protesting 
religious  leaders  and  accused  them  of  counterrevolutionary 
propaganda  and  of  conniving  with  reactionary  elements  in  the  Ara- 
bian Peninsula.  The  authorities  also  dismissed  several  members 
of  religious  tribunals  for  corruption  and  incompetence. 

When  the  Three-Year  Plan,  1971-73,  was  launched  in  January 
1971,  SRC  leaders  felt  compelled  to  win  the  support  of  religious 
leaders  so  as  to  transform  the  existing  social  structure  (see  Scien- 
tific Socialism,  1970-75,  ch.  3).  On  September  4,  1971,  Siad  Barre 
exhorted  more  than  100  religious  teachers  to  participate  in  build- 
ing a  new  socialist  society.  He  criticized  their  method  of  teaching 
in  Quranic  schools  and  charged  some  with  using  religion  for  per- 
sonal profit. 

The  campaign  for  scientific  socialism  intensified  in  1972.  On  the 
occasion  of  Id  al  Adha,  the  major  Muslim  festival  associated  with 
the  pilgrimage,  the  president  defined  scientific  socialism  as  half  prac- 
tical work  and  half  ideological  belief.  He  declared  that  work  and 
belief  were  compatible  with  Islam  because  the  Quran  condemned 
exploitation  and  moneylending  and  urged  compassion,  unity,  and 
cooperation  among  Muslims.  But  he  stressed  the  distinction  be- 
tween religion  as  an  ideological  instrument  for  the  manipulation 
of  power  and  as  a  moral  force.  He  condemned  the  antireligious 
attitude  of  Marxists.  Religion,  Siad  Barre  said,  was  an  integral 
part  of  the  Somali  worldview,  but  it  belonged  in  the  private  sphere, 
whereas  scientific  socialism  dealt  with  material  concerns  such  as 


103 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

poverty.  Religious  leaders  should  exercise  their  moral  influence  but 
refrain  from  interfering  in  political  or  economic  matters. 

In  early  January  1975,  evoking  the  message  of  equality,  justice, 
and  social  progress  contained  in  the  Quran,  Siad  Barre  announced 
a  new  family  law  that  gave  women  the  right  to  inheritance  on  an 
equal  basis  with  men.  Some  Somalis  believe  the  law  was  proof  that 
the  SRC  wanted  to  undermine  the  basic  structure  of  Islamic  soci- 
ety. In  Mogadishu  twenty-three  religious  leaders  protested  inside 
their  mosques.  They  were  arrested  and  charged  with  acting  at  the 
instigation  of  a  foreign  power  and  with  violating  state  security;  ten 
were  executed.  Most  religious  leaders,  however,  kept  silent.  The 
government  continued  to  organize  training  courses  for  shaykhs  in 
scientific  socialism. 

Rising  Islamism 

Somali  Islam  rendered  the  world  intelligible  to  Somalis  and  made 
their  lives  more  bearable  in  a  harsh  land.  Amidst  the  interclan  vio- 
lence that  characterized  life  in  the  early  1990s,  Somalis  naturally 
sought  comfort  in  their  faith  to  make  sense  of  their  national  dis- 
aster. The  traditional  response  of  practicing  Muslims  to  social  trau- 
ma is  to  explain  it  in  terms  of  a  perceived  sin  that  has  caused  society 
to  stray  from  the  "straight  path  of  truth"  and  consequently  to 
receive  God's  punishment.  The  way  to  regain  God's  favor  is  to 
repent  collectively  and  rededicate  society  in  accordance  with  Al- 
lah's divine  precepts. 

On  the  basis  of  these  beliefs,  a  Somali  version  of  militant  Islam- 
ism (sometimes  seen  as  fundamentalism)  sprang  up  to  fill  the  vacu- 
um created  by  the  collapse  of  the  state.  In  the  disintegrated  Soma- 
li world  of  early  1992,  Islamism  appeared  to  be  largely  confined 
to  Bender  Cassim,  a  coastal  town  in  Majeerteen  country.  For  in- 
stance, a  Yugoslav  doctor  who  was  a  member  of  a  United  Nations 
team  sent  to  aid  the  wounded  was  gunned  down  by  masked  as- 
sailants there  in  November  1991.  Reportedly,  the  assassins  belonged 
to  an  underground  Islamist  movement  whose  adherents  wished  to 
purify  the  country  of  "infidel"  influence. 

Language  and  Education 

Language 

Except  for  a  few  communities  along  the  southern  Somali  coast 
where  Swahili  (a  Bantu  language)  and  Arabic  dialects  are  spoken, 
Somali  nationals  (including  persons  of  non- Somali  origin)  speak  one 
of  several  Somali  dialects.  Somali  belongs  to  a  set  of  languages  called 
lowland  Eastern  Cushitic  spoken  by  peoples  living  in  Ethiopia, 


104 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Somalia,  Djibouti,  and  Kenya.  Eastern  Cushitic  is  one  section  of 
the  Cushitic  language  family,  which  in  turn  is  part  of  the  great 
Afro-Asiatic  stock. 

Of  the  Somali  dialects,  the  most  widely  used  is  Common  Soma- 
li, a  term  applied  to  several  subdialects,  the  speakers  of  which  can 
understand  each  other  easily.  Common  Somali  is  spoken  in  most 
of  Somalia  and  in  adjacent  territories  (Ethiopia,  Kenya,  and  Djibou- 
ti) and  is  used  by  broadcasting  stations  in  Somalia  and  in  Somali- 
language  broadcasts  originating  outside  the  country.  Coastal  Somali 
is  spoken  on  the  Banaadir  Coast  (from  Cadale  to  south  of  Baraawe) 
and  its  immediate  hinterland.  Central  Somali  is  spoken  in  the  in- 
terriverine  area,  chiefly  by  members  of  the  Rahanwayn  clan-family. 
Speakers  of  Common  and  Coastal  Somali  can  understand  each  other 
after  a  few  weeks  of  close  contact,  speakers  of  Common  and  Cen- 
tral Somali  only  after  a  few  months. 

Facility  with  language  is  highly  valued  in  Somali  society;  the  capa- 
bility of  a  suitor,  a  warrior,  or  a  political  or  religious  leader  is  judged 
in  part  by  his  verbal  adroitness.  In  such  a  society,  oral  poetry  be- 
comes an  art,  and  one's  ability  to  compose  verse  in  one  or  more 
of  its  several  forms  enhances  one's  status. 

Speakers  in  political  or  religious  assemblies  and  litigants  in  courts 
traditionally  were  expected  to  use  poetry  or  poetic  proverbs.  Even 
everyday  talk  tended  to  have  a  terse,  vivid,  poetic  style,  charac- 
terized by  carefully  chosen  words,  condensed  meaning,  and  al- 
literation. 

Until  the  establishment  of  the  Somali  script  in  January  1973, 
there  were  two  languages  of  government — English  and  Italian.  In 
the  prerevolutionary  era,  English  became  dominant  in  the  school 
system  and  in  government,  which  caused  some  conflict  between 
elites  from  northern  and  southern  Somalia.  However,  the  over- 
arching issue  was  the  development  of  a  socioeconomic  stratum  based 
on  mastery  of  a  foreign  language.  The  relatively  small  proportion 
of  Somalis  (less  than  10  percent)  with  a  grasp  of  such  a  language — 
preferably  English — had  access  to  government  positions  and  the 
few  managerial  or  technical  jobs  in  modern  private  enterprises.  Such 
persons  became  increasingly  isolated  from  their  nonliterate  Somali- 
speaking  brethren,  but  because  the  secondary  schools  and  most 
government  posts  were  in  urban  areas,  the  socioeconomic  and  lin- 
guistic distinction  was  in  large  part  a  rural-urban  one.  To  some 
extent,  it  was  also  a  north-south  distinction  because  those  educat- 
ed in  the  Italian  system  and  even  in  Italian  universities  found  it 
increasingly  difficult  to  reach  senior  government  levels. 

Even  before  the  1969  revolution,  Somalis  had  become  aware  of 
social  stratification  and  the  growing  distance,  based  on  language 


105 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

and  literacy  differences,  between  ordinary  Somalis  and  those  in 
government.  The  1972  decision  to  designate  an  official  Somali  script 
and  require  its  use  in  government  demolished  the  language  barri- 
er and  an  important  obstacle  to  rapid  literacy  growth. 

In  the  years  following  the  institution  of  the  Somali  script,  Somali 
officials  were  required  to  learn  the  script,  and  attempts  were  made 
to  inculcate  mass  literacy — in  1973  among  urban  and  rural  seden- 
tary Somalis,  and  in  1974-75  among  nomads.  Although  a  few  texts 
existed  in  the  new  script  before  1973,  in  most  cases  new  books  were 
prepared  presenting  the  government's  perspective  on  Somali  his- 
tory and  development.  Somali  scholars  also  succeeded  in  develop- 
ing a  vocabulary  to  deal  with  a  range  of  subjects  from  mathematics 
and  physics  to  administration  and  ideology. 

By  the  late  1970s,  sufficient  Somali  materials  were  available  to 
permit  the  language  to  be  the  medium  of  instruction  at  all  school 
levels  below  the  university.  Arabic  was  taught  to  all  students,  be- 
ginning at  the  elementary  level  and  continuing  into  the  secondary 
phase.  Because  Italians  dominated  the  senior  faculty  at  the  national 
university  in  the  late  1970s,  Italian  remained  in  wide  use.  By  the 
late  1980s,  Somali  was  the  language  of  instruction  at  the  universi- 
ty as  well. 

Education 

In  the  colonial  period,  Italian  Somaliland  and  British  Somaliland 
pursued  different  educational  policies.  The  Italians  sought  to  train 
pupils  to  become  farmers  or  unskilled  workers  so  as  to  minimize 
the  number  of  Italians  needed  for  these  purposes.  The  British  es- 
tablished an  elementary  education  system  during  the  military  ad- 
ministration to  train  Somali  males  for  administrative  posts  and  for 
positions  not  previously  open  to  them.  They  set  up  a  training  school 
for  the  police  and  one  for  medical  orderlies. 

During  the  trusteeship  period,  education  was  supposedly 
governed  by  the  Trusteeship  Agreement,  which  declared  that  in- 
dependence could  only  be  based  on  "education  in  the  broadest 
sense. "  Despite  Italian  opposition,  the  UN  had  passed  the  Trustee- 
ship Agreement  calling  for  a  system  of  public  education:  elemen- 
tary, secondary,  and  vocational,  in  which  at  least  elementary 
education  was  free.  The  authorities  were  also  to  establish  teacher- 
training  institutions  and  to  facilitate  higher  and  professional  edu- 
cation by  sending  an  adequate  number  of  students  for  university 
study  abroad. 

The  result  of  these  provisions  was  that  to  obtain  an  education, 
a  Somali  had  the  choice  of  attending  a  traditional  Quranic  school 
or  the  Roman  Catholic  mission- run  government  schools.  The 


106 


107 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

language  of  instruction  in  these  schools  was  Arabic  or  Italian,  not 
Somali.  The  fifteen  pre-World  War  I  schools  (ten  government 
schools  and  five  orphanage  schools)  in  Italian  Somaliland  had  an 
enrollment  of  less  than  one-tenth  of  1  percent  of  the  population. 
Education  for  Somalis  ended  with  the  elementary  level;  only  Italians 
attended  intermediate  schools.  Of  all  Italian  colonies,  Somalia 
received  the  least  financial  aid  for  education. 

In  British  Somaliland,  the  military  administration  appointed  a 
British  officer  as  superintendent  of  education  in  1944.  Britain  later 
seconded  six  Zanzibari  instructors  from  the  East  Africa  Army  Edu- 
cation Corps  for  duty  with  the  Somali  Education  Department.  In 
1947  there  were  seventeen  government  elementary  schools  for  the 
Somali  and  Arab  population,  two  private  schools,  and  a  teacher- 
training  school  with  fifty  Somali  and  Arab  students. 

Until  well  after  World  War  II,  there  was  little  demand  for 
Western-style  education.  Moreover,  the  existence  of  two  official 
languages  (English  and  Italian)  and  a  third  (Arabic,  widely  revered 
as  the  language  of  the  Quran  if  not  widely  used  and  understood) 
posed  problems  for  a  uniform  educational  system  and  for  literacy 
training  at  the  elementary  school  level. 

The  relative  lack  of  direction  in  education  policy  in  the  prerevolu- 
tionary  period  under  the  SRC  gave  way  to  the  enunciation  in  the 
early  1970s  of  several  goals  reflecting  the  philosophy  of  the  revolu- 
tionary regime.  Among  these  goals  were  expansion  of  the  school 
system  to  accommodate  the  largest  possible  student  population;  in- 
troduction of  courses  geared  to  the  country's  social  and  economic 
requirements;  expansion  of  technical  education;  and  provision  of 
higher  education  within  Somalia  so  that  most  students  who  pur- 
sued advanced  studies  would  acquire  their  knowledge  in  a  Somali 
context.  The  government  also  announced  its  intention  to  eliminate 
illiteracy.  Considerable  progress  toward  these  goals  had  been 
achieved  by  the  early  1980s. 

In  the  societal  chaos  following  the  fall  of  Siad  Barre  in  early  1991 , 
schools  ceased  to  exist  for  all  practical  purposes.  In  1990,  however, 
the  system  had  four  basic  levels — preprimary,  primary,  secondary, 
and  higher.  The  government  controlled  all  schools,  private  schools 
having  been  nationalized  in  1972  and  Quranic  education  having 
been  made  an  integral  part  of  schooling  in  the  late  1970s. 

The  preprimary  training  given  by  Quranic  schools  lasted  until 
the  late  1970s.  Quranic  teachers  traveled  with  nomadic  groups, 
and  many  children  received  only  the  education  offered  by  such 
teachers.  There  were  a  number  of  stationary  religious  schools  in 
urban  areas  as  well.  The  decision  in  the  late  1970s  to  bring  Islamic 
education  into  the  national  system  reflected  a  concern  that  most 


108 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Quranic  learning  was  rudimentary  at  best,  as  well  as  a  desire  for 
tighter  government  control  over  an  autonomous  area. 

Until  the  mid-1970s,  primary  education  consisted  of  four  years 
of  elementary  schooling  followed  by  four  grades  designated  as  in- 
termediate. In  1972  promotion  to  the  intermediate  grades  was  made 
automatic  (a  competitive  examination  had  been  required  until  that 
year).  The  two  cycles  subsequently  were  treated  as  a  single  con- 
tinuous program.  In  1975  the  government  established  universal 
primary  education,  and  primary  education  was  reduced  to  six  years. 
By  the  end  of  the  1978-79  school  year,  however,  the  government 
reintroduced  the  eight-year  primary  school  system  because  the  six- 
year  program  had  proved  unsatisfactory. 

The  number  of  students  enrolled  in  the  primary  level  increased 
each  year,  beginning  in  1969-70,  but  particularly  after  1975-76. 
Primary  schooling  theoretically  began  at  age  six,  but  many  chil- 
dren started  later.  Many,  especially  girls,  did  not  attend  school, 
and  some  dropped  out,  usually  after  completing  four  years. 

In  1981  Somalia  informed  the  UN  Conference  on  the  Least  De- 
veloped Countries  that  the  nomadic  population  was  "omitted  from 
the  formal  education  program  for  the  purposes  of  forecasting 
primary  education  enrollment."  In  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s, 
the  government  provided  a  three-year  education  program  for  no- 
madic children.  For  six  months  of  each  year,  when  the  seasons  per- 
mitted numbers  of  nomads  to  aggregate,  the  children  attended 
school;  the  rest  of  the  year  the  children  accompanied  their  fami- 
lies. Nomadic  families  who  wanted  their  children  to  attend  school 
throughout  the  year  had  to  board  them  in  a  permanent  settlement. 

In  addition  to  training  in  reading,  writing,  and  arithmetic,  the 
primary  curriculum  provided  social  studies  courses  using  new  text- 
books that  focused  on  Somali  issues.  Arabic  was  to  be  taught  as 
a  second  language  beginning  in  primary  school,  but  it  was  doubt- 
ful that  there  were  enough  qualified  Somalis  able  to  teach  it  be- 
yond the  rudimentary  level.  Another  goal,  announced  in  the 
mid-1970s,  was  to  give  students  some  modern  knowledge  of  agricul- 
ture and  animal  husbandry.  Primary  school  graduates,  however, 
lacked  sufficient  knowledge  to  earn  a  living  at  a  skilled  trade. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  number  of  students  enrolled  in  secondary 
school  was  less  than  10  percent  of  the  total  in  primary  schools,  a 
result  of  the  dearth  of  teachers,  schools,  and  materials.  Most  second- 
ary schools  were  still  in  urban  areas;  given  the  rural  and  largely 
nomadic  nature  of  the  population,  these  were  necessarily  board- 
ing schools.  Further,  the  use  of  Somali  at  the  secondary  level  re- 
quired Somali  teachers,  which  entailed  a  training  period.  Beginning 
in  the  1980-81  school  year,  the  government  created  a  formula  for 


109 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

allocating  postprimary  students.  It  assumed  that  80  percent  of 
primary  school  graduates  would  go  on  to  further  education.  Of 
these,  30  percent  would  attend  four-year  general  secondary  edu- 
cation, 17.5  percent  either  three-  or  four-year  courses  in  technical 
education,  and  52.5  percent  vocational  courses  of  one  to  two  years' 
duration. 

The  principal  institution  of  higher  education  was  Somali  Na- 
tional University  in  Mogadishu,  founded  in  1970.  The  nine  early 
faculties  were  agriculture,  economics,  education,  engineering,  ge- 
ology, law,  medicine,  sciences,  and  veterinary  science.  Added  in 
the  late  1970s  were  the  faculty  of  languages  and  a  combination  of 
journalism  and  Islamic  studies.  The  College  of  Education,  which 
prepared  secondary- school  teachers  in  a  two-year  program,  was 
part  of  the  university.  About  700  students  were  admitted  to  the 
university  each  year  in  the  late  1970s;  roughly  15  percent  of  those 
completed  the  general  secondary  course  and  the  four-year  techni- 
cal course.  Despite  a  high  dropout  rate,  the  authorities  projected 
an  eventual  intake  of  roughly  25  percent  of  general  and  technical 
secondary  school  graduates. 

In  1990  several  other  institutes  also  admitted  secondary-school 
graduates.  Among  these  were  schools  of  nursing,  telecommunica- 
tions, and  veterinary  science,  and  a  polytechnic  institute.  The  num- 
bers enrolled  and  the  duration  of  the  courses  were  not  known. 

In  addition,  several  programs  were  directed  at  adults.  The 
government  had  claimed  60  percent  literacy  after  the  mass  litera- 
cy campaign  of  the  mid-1970s,  but  by  early  1977  there  were  signs 
of  relapse,  particularly  among  nomads.  The  government  then  es- 
tablished the  National  Adult  Education  Center  to  coordinate  the 
work  of  several  ministries  and  many  voluntary  and  part-time  paid 
workers  in  an  extensive  literacy  program,  largely  in  rural  areas  for 
persons  sixteen  to  forty-five  years  of  age.  Despite  these  efforts,  the 
UN  estimate  of  Somali  literacy  in  1990  was  only  24  percent. 

Health 

The  collapse  of  the  government  in  January  1991  with  the  fall 
of  Siad  Barre  led  to  further  deterioration  of  Somalia's  health  situ- 
ation. The  high  incidence  of  disease  that  persisted  into  the  early 
1990s  reflected  a  difficult  environment,  inadequate  nutrition,  and 
insufficient  medical  care.  In  the  years  since  the  revolutionary  re- 
gime had  come  to  power,  drought,  flood,  warfare  (and  the  refu- 
gee problem  resulting  from  the  latter)  had,  if  anything,  left  diets 
more  inadequate  than  before.  Massive  changes  that  would  make 
the  environment  less  hostile,  such  as  the  elimination  of  disease- 
transmitting  organisms,  had  yet  to  take  place.  The  numbers  of 


110 


Woman  feeding 
her  baby  in  a  maternal 
and  child  feeding  center, 
Mogadishu,  1991 
Courtesy 
Hiram  A.  Ruiz 


medical  personnel  and  health  facilities  had  increased,  but  they  did 
not  meet  Somali  needs  in  the  early  1990s  and  seemed  unlikely  to 
do  so  for  some  time. 

The  major  maladies  prevalent  in  Somalia  included  pulmonary 
tuberculosis,  malaria,  and  infectious  and  parasitic  diseases.  In  ad- 
dition, schistosomiasis  (bilharzia),  tetanus,  venereal  disease  (espe- 
cially in  the  port  towns),  leprosy,  and  a  variety  of  skin  and  eye 
ailments  severely  impaired  health  and  productivity.  As  elsewhere, 
smallpox  had  been  eliminated,  but  occasional  epidemics  of  measles 
could  have  devastating  effects.  In  early  1992,  Somalia  had  a  hu- 
man immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV)  incidence  of  less  than  1  per- 
cent of  its  population. 

Environmental,  economic,  and  social  conditions  were  conducive 
to  a  relatively  high  incidence  of  tuberculosis.  Young  males  who 
herded  camels,  often  under  severe  conditions,  were  particularly  sus- 
ceptible to  the  disease.  Efforts  to  deal  with  tuberculosis  had  some 
success  in  urban  centers,  but  control  measures  were  difficult  to  apply 
to  the  nomadic  and  seminomadic  population. 

Malaria  was  prevalent  in  the  southern  regions,  particularly  those 
traversed  by  the  country's  two  major  rivers.  By  the  mid-1970s,  a 
malaria  eradication  program  had  been  extended  from  Mogadishu 
to  other  regions;  good  results  were  then  reported,  but  there  were 
no  useful  statistics  for  the  early  1990s. 


Ill 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Approximately  75  percent  of  the  population  was  affected  by  one 
or  more  kinds  of  intestinal  parasites;  this  problem  would  persist 
as  long  as  contaminated  water  sources  were  used  and  the  way  of 
life  of  most  rural  Somalis  remained  unchanged.  Schistosomiasis 
was  particularly  prevalent  in  the  marshy  and  irrigated  areas  along 
the  rivers  in  the  south.  Parasites  contributed  to  general  debilita- 
tion and  made  the  population  susceptible  to  other  diseases. 

Underlying  Somali  susceptibility  to  disease  was  widespread  mal- 
nutrition, exacerbated  from  time  to  time  by  drought  and  since  the 
late  1970s  by  the  refugee  burden  (see  Refugees,  this  ch.).  Although 
reliable  statistics  were  not  available,  the  high  child  mortality  rate 
was  attributed  to  inadequate  nutrition. 

Until  the  collapse  of  the  national  government  in  1991,  the  organi- 
zation and  administration  of  health  services  were  the  responsibility 
of  the  Ministry  of  Health,  although  regional  medical  officers  had 
some  authority.  The  Siad  Barre  regime  had  ended  private  medical 
practice  in  1972,  but  in  the  late  1980s  private  practice  returned  as 
Somalis  became  dissatisfied  with  the  quality  of  government  health 
care. 

From  1973  to  1978,  there  was  a  substantial  increase  in  the  num- 
ber of  physicians,  and  a  far  greater  proportion  of  them  were  Soma- 
lis. Of  198  physicians  in  1978,  a  total  of  118  were  Somalis,  whereas 
only  37  of  96  had  been  Somalis  in  1973. 

In  the  1970s,  an  effort  was  made  to  increase  the  number  of  other 
health  personnel  and  to  foster  the  construction  of  health  facilities. 
To  that  end,  two  nursing  schools  opened  and  several  other  health- 
related  educational  programs  were  instituted.  Of  equal  importance 
was  the  countrywide  distribution  of  medical  personnel  and  facili- 
ties. In  the  early  1970s,  most  personnel  and  facilities  were  concen- 
trated in  Mogadishu  and  a  few  other  towns.  The  situation  had 
improved  somewhat  by  the  late  1970s,  but  the  distribution  of  health 
care  remained  unsatisfactory. 

Refugees 

The  1977-78  Ogaden  War  caused  a  massive  influx  of  Somalis 
who  had  been  living  in  eastern  Ethiopia  (and  to  a  lesser  extent  from 
other  areas)  into  Somalia.  Most  refugees  were  ethnic  Somalis,  but 
there  were  also  many  Oromo,  an  ethnic  group  that  resided  primarily 
in  Ethiopia.  The  Somali  government  appealed  for  help  to  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR)  in  Septem- 
ber 1979,  but  the  UNHCR  did  not  initiate  requests  for  interna- 
tional aid  until  March  1980. 

In  its  first  public  appeal  to  the  UN,  the  Somali  government  es- 
timated 310,000  in  the  camps  in  September  1979.  By  mid-1980 


112 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


estimates  had  risen  to  750,000  persons  in  camps  and  at  least  half 
that  number  outside  them.  In  early  1981,  Mogadishu  estimated 
that  there  were  more  than  1.3  million  refugees  in  the  camps  and 
an  additional  700,000  to  800,000  refugees  at  large,  either  attempting 
to  carry  on  their  nomadic  way  of  life  or  quartered  in  towns  and 
cities. 

In  1980  representatives  of  international  agencies  and  other  aid 
donors  expressed  skepticism  at  the  numbers  Somalia  claimed,  and 
in  1981  these  agencies  asked  UN  demographers  to  conduct  a  sur- 
vey. The  survey  estimated  450,000  to  620,000  refugees  in  the 
camps;  no  estimate  was  made  of  the  number  of  refugees  outside 
the  camps.  The  Somali  government  rejected  the  survey's  results; 
international  agencies  subsequently  based  their  budgeting  on  a 
figure  of  650,000. 

Conflicting  figures  concerning  the  composition  of  the  refugee 
population  by  age  and  sex  led  a  team  of  epidemiologists  from  the 
Centers  for  Disease  Control  of  the  United  States  Public  Health  Ser- 
vice to  determine  the  demographic  characteristics  of  a  sample  of 
refugee  camps  in  mid- 1980.  They  found  the  very  young  (under 
five  years  of  age)  to  range  from  1 5  to  18  percent  of  the  camp  popu- 
lation; those  from  five  to  fifteen  years  of  age  ranged  from  45  to 
47  percent;  from  29  to  33  percent  were  between  fifteen  years  of 
age  and  forty-four;  6  to  8  percent  were  forty-five  years  or  older. 
The  epidemiologists  did  not  find  the  male-female  ratio  unusually 
distorted. 

In  1990  there  were  refugee  camps  in  four  of  Somalia's  sixteen 
regions,  or  administrative  districts  (see  fig.  5).  The  number  of  per- 
sons in  these  camps  ranged  from  under  3,000  to  more  than  70,000, 
but  most  held  35,000  to  45,000  refugees.  According  to  a  govern- 
ment document,  the  camps  in  Gedo  held  a  total  of  more  than 
450,000  persons,  in  Hiiraan  more  than  375,000,  in  Woqooyi  Gal- 
beed  well  over  400,000,  and  in  Shabeellaha  Hoose  nearly  70,000. 

The  burden  of  the  refugee  influx  on  Somalia  was  heavy.  Soma- 
lia was  one  of  the  world's  poorest  countries,  an  importer  of  food 
in  ordinary  circumstances  and  lacking  crucial  elements  of  physi- 
cal and  social  infrastructure  such  as  transportation  and  health  fa- 
cilities. The  general  poverty  of  the  indigenous  population  and  the 
ad  hoc  character  of  the  National  Refugee  Commission  established 
under  the  Ministry  of  Local  Government  and  Rural  Development 
and  other  government  agencies  dealing  with  the  refugee  problem 
contributed  to  the  misuse  and  even  the  outright  theft  of  food  and 
medical  supplies  intended  for  refugees. 

In  a  country  with  limited  arable  land  and  fuels  and  visited  fairly 
often  by  drought  or  flash  floods,  refugees  were  hard  put  to  contribute 


113 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


Qtitf  of  ?Mm 


Figure  5.  Refugee  Camps  in  Somalia,  1990 

to  their  own  support.  Some  refugee  camps  were  so  located  that 
transportation  of  food  and  medical  supplies  was  fairly  easy,  but 
that  was  not  true  for  many  other  camps.  Some  were  in  or  near 
areas  where,  in  a  year  of  good  rain,  crops  could  be  grown,  but 
others  were  not.  In  almost  all  cases,  easily  accessible  firewood  had 
been  rapidly  depleted  by  early  1981,  and  the  refugees  had  to  go 
long  distances  for  what  little  could  be  found. 

Despite  the  responses  of  a  number  of  countries — including  the 
United  States — to  the  nutritional  and  medical  requirements  of  the 


114 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


refugees,  their  situation  in  mid- 1981  remained  difficult.  Epidemi- 
ologists from  the  Centers  for  Disease  Control  reported  in  early  1980 
that  the  "major  problem  affecting  the  refugee  children  was  pro- 
tein energy  malnutrition."  Child  mortality  was  high,  particularly 
among  newly  arrived  refugees.  A  1980  epidemic  of  measles  was 
responsible  for  many  deaths  in  camps  in  Gedo  and  Woqooyi  Gal- 
beed.  Another  leading  cause  of  children's  deaths  was  diarrhea,  a 
consequence  in  part  of  the  severe  lack  of  adequate  sanitation,  par- 
ticularly with  respect  to  water  sources. 

To  sustain  the  refugee  population  even  at  a  low  level  required 
regular  contributions  from  other  countries,  an  adequate  and  com- 
petently managed  distribution  system  and,  if  possible,  some  con- 
tribution by  the  refugees  themselves  to  their  own  subsistence.  In 
April  1981,  Somalia's  Ministry  of  National  Planning  and  Jubba 
Valley  Development  issued  its  Short-  and  Long-  Term  Programme  for 
Refugees  detailing  projected  needs  and  proposals,  all  of  which  re- 
quired international  support  in  various  forms — money,  food,  med- 
ical supplies,  and  foreign  staff,  among  others.  When  the  program 
was  published,  overall  responsibility  for  refugees  lay  with  the  Minis- 
try of  Local  Government  and  Rural  Development  and  its  Nation- 
al Refugee  Commission.  Other  ministries,  including  those  of  health 
and  education,  had  responsibility  for  specific  projects.  By  1990  many 
ministries  had  special  divisions  or  sections  devoted  to  refugee  mat- 
ters. However,  as  noted  earlier,  by  mid- 1991  government  minis- 
tries had  ceased  functioning. 

Age  and  sex  composition,  camp  conditions,  and  refugee  needs 
remained  roughly  constant  until  1988,  when  the  civil  war,  partic- 
ularly in  the  north,  produced  a  new  and  massive  wave  of  refugees. 
This  time  the  refugees  went  from  Somalia  to  Ethiopia,  where  a 
large  number  of  displaced  northerners,  mainly  members  of  the  Isaaq 
clan-family  fleeing  the  violence  and  persecution  from  the  Somali 
Army's  "pacification"  campaigns,  sought  sanctuary  in  Ethiopia's 
eastern  province,  Harerge  Kifle  Hager.  The  new  wave  of  asylum- 
seekers  almost  doubled  the  number  of  displaced  persons  in  the 
region.  According  to  the  UNHCR,  Ethiopia  and  Somalia  between 
them  hosted  in  1989  a  refugee  population  of  about  1.3  million. 
Nearly  960,000  of  the  total  were  ethnic  Somalis.  Somalia  hosted 
600,000  refugees,  of  whom  nearly  80  percent  were  ethnic  Somalis 
from  Harerge,  Ogaden,  Bale,  and  Borena  regions.  The  remain- 
ing 20  percent  were  Oromo,  the  largest  ethnic  group  in  the  Horn 
of  Africa,  from  Harerge,  Bale,  and  Borena  regions. 

In  southern  Somalia,  refugees  lived  in  camps  in  the  Gedo  and 
Shabeellaha  Hoose  regions.  In  the  northwest,  camps  were  distrib- 
uted in  the  corridor  between  Hargeysa  and  Boorama,  northwest 


115 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

of  Hargeysa.  Because  of  the  nomadic  tendency  of  the  Somali  and 
Oromo  refugees,  major  population  shifts  occurred  frequently. 

According  to  UNHCR  statistical  data  for  1990,  the  camps  in 
southern  and  central  Somalia  housed  about  460,000  displaced  per- 
sons. No  reliable  statistical  data  existed  on  the  gender  and  age  com- 
position of  the  refugee  population  in  Somalia.  Informed  conjecture 
put  the  sex  ratio  at  60  percent  female  and  40  percent  male — the 
differential  resulting  from  the  migration  of  some  of  the  men  to  the 
oil-rich  Middle  East  countries,  where  they  sought  employment. 

A  significant  number  of  Somali  refugees  emigrated  to  Europe- 
an countries,  in  particular  Britain,  the  Netherlands,  Sweden,  Fin- 
land (where  Somalis  constituted  the  largest  number  of  refugees), 
and  Canada.  Britain  had  a  particularly  generous  asylum  policy 
toward  Isaaq  refugees. 

In  providing  assistance  and  relief  programs,  the  UNHCR  had 
collaborated  in  the  past  with  an  assortment  of  nongovernmental 
organizations  and  voluntary  agencies.  Their  assistance  fell  into  two 
general  categories:  care  and  maintenance  programs,  and  what  was 
described  as  a  "durable  solution."  The  former  were  assistance  pro- 
grams alleviating  immediate  needs  for  food,  water,  sanitation, 
health,  shelter,  community  services,  legal  assistance,  and  related 
requirements.  Durable  solutions  were  voluntary  repatriation  based 
on  prior  clearance  given  by  the  Ethiopian  government,  local  in- 
tegration in  Somalia  with  limited  assistance,  and  facilitation  of  in- 
tegration of  refugees  who  demonstrated  a  well-founded  fear  for  their 
safety  should  they  repatriate.  For  most  refugee  assistance  programs, 
local  difficulties  caused  problems  that  led  to  charges  of  mismanage- 
ment, insensitivity,  and  corruption. 

In  1990  there  were  approximately  360,000  Somali  refugees  in 
eastern  Ethiopia,  almost  all  of  whom  belonged  to  the  Isaaq  clan 
from  northern  Somalia.  These  refugees  had  sought  asylum  as  a 
result  of  the  May  1988  attack  in  which  Somali  National  Movement 
guerrillas  seized  the  city  of  Burao  for  three  days  and  almost  oc- 
cupied Hargeysa.  In  the  counteroffensive,  government  troops  in- 
discriminately shelled  cities,  causing  practically  the  entire  Isaaq 
urban  population  to  flee  in  panic  into  Ethiopia.  Six  refugee  camps 
contained  the  displaced  Isaaq:  140,000  in  the  Aware  camps  of 
Camabokar,  Rabasso,  and  Daror;  10,000  in  Aysha;  and  210,000 
in  two  camps  at  Hartishek. 

According  to  the  UNHCR,  in  the  camps  for  Somali  refugees 
the  refugees  generally  lived  in  family  units.  Although  the  1988  in- 
flux contained  mainly  urban  dwellers  from  Hargeysa  and  Burao, 
by  the  end  of  1989  the  camp  population  included  many  pastoral  - 
ists  and  nomads.  Their  tendency  to  remain  in  one  location  for 


116 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


only  short  periods  presented  major  problems  for  public  health 
monitoring. 

With  the  flight  of  Siad  Barre  and  consequent  fall  of  his  govern- 
ment in  late  January  1991,  significant  population  shifts  occurred. 
According  to  sketchy  UNHCR  reports,  there  were  more  than 
50,000  Somali  refugees  in  various  camps  in  Mombasa,  Kenya. 
These  were  mainly  Daarood  who  had  fled  as  a  result  of  Hawiye 
clan-family  assaults  on  them  when  the  state  disintegrated  and  the 
Daarood  residents  of  Mogadishu  became  the  objects  of  revenge  kill- 
ings. Another  150,000  were  scattered  in  the  North-Eastern  Region 
of  Kenya,  especially  in  and  around  the  border  town  of  Liboi  and 
slightly  farther  inland.  Other  thousands  had  fled  to  eastern  Ethio- 
pia, where  the  UNHCR  stated  it  was  feeding  more  than  400,000 
ethnic  Somalis.  Many  others  were  dispersed  throughout  the  bor- 
der areas. 

Breakdown  of  the  Infrastructure 

The  Somali  environment — both  human  and  ecological — has  de- 
teriorated since  the  collapse  of  the  state  in  early  1991.  The  conse- 
quent outbreak  of  intra-  and  interclan  conflicts  engulfed  the 
peninsula  in  a  catastrophic  civil  war  that  had  claimed,  by  a  con- 
servative estimate,  more  than  200,000  Somali  lives  by  early  1992. 
The  cities  of  Mogadishu  and  Hargeysa  had  been  reduced  to  rub- 
ble, with  government  buildings  and  homes  looted  or  razed  by  gangs 
armed  with  assault  rifles.  Even  telephone  wires  had  been  dug  up, 
stolen,  and  exported  for  sale  to  the  United  Arab  Emirates. 

In  the  fields  of  education  and  health,  a  sharp  decline  occurred 
and  only  minimal  services  continued  to  exist.  Because  of  the  destruc- 
tion of  schools  and  supporting  services,  a  whole  generation  of  Soma- 
lis faced  the  prospect  of  a  return  to  illiteracy.  Many  people  who 
had  fled  to  the  cities  initially  because  of  the  civil  war  sought  refuge 
in  camps  elsewhere,  often  refugee  camps  outside  Somalia.  More 
than  one  year  of  civil  war  had  wiped  out  most  of  the  intellectual 
and  material  progress  of  the  preceding  thirty  years.  In  short,  Somali 
society  had  retrogressed  to  a  collection  of  warring  clans  reminis- 
cent of  preindustrial  times. 

*    *  * 

Enrico  Cerulli's  three-volume  work,  Somalia:  Scritti  vari  editi  ed 
inediti,  remains  the  most  comprehensive  study  of  Somali  society: 
pastoral  institutions,  history,  politics,  literature,  and  language.  The 
classic  work  on  the  social  and  political  system  of  pastoral  nomadic 
Somalis  of  northern  Somalia  (based  on  research  done  in  the  1950s) 


117 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

is  I.M.  Lewis's  A  Pastoral  Democracy.  Peoples  of  the  Horn  of  Africa: 
Somalia,  Afar,  and  Saho  also  by  Lewis  is  a  major  source  on  Somali 
ethnic  groups.  The  dean  of  Somali  studies,  Lewis  has  written 
numerous  articles,  several  of  which  deal  with  Somali  Islam  and 
indigenous  religion.  His  "From  Nomadism  to  Cultivation"  pro- 
vides an  introduction  to  the  traditional  social  and  political  orders 
of  the  interriverine  sedentary  Somalis.  Virginia  Luling  has  pub- 
lished some  of  her  findings  on  one  group  of  sedentary  Somalis  (the 
Geledi  clan  and  its  neighbors)  in  "Colonial  and  Postcolonial  Influ- 
ences on  a  South  Somali  Community. "  David  D.  Laitin's  Politics, 
Language,  and  Thought:  The  Somali  Experience  concerns  the  political 
aspects  of  deciding  on  a  written  form  for  the  Somali  language. 

Lee  Cassanelli's  The  Shaping  of  Somali  Society  sheds  valuable  light 
on  the  evolution  and  structure  of  southern  Somali  tribes,  such  as 
the  Geledi  and  Biyamaal,  as  well  as  on  Islamic  institutions  such 
as  the  cult  of  saints.  Said  S.  Samatar's  Oral  Poetry  and  Somali  Na- 
tionalism provides  a  comprehensive  treatment  of  the  intimate  in- 
terplay between  pastoralism  and  oral  poetry  and  that  literary  form's 
uses  as  a  tool  in  mobilizing  public  opinion,  in  mass  communica- 
tion, and  in  related  areas  of  oratory  and  rhetoric.  (For  further  in- 
formation and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


118 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Bananas,  one  of  Somalia 's  prinicpal  commercial  crops 


ALREADY  SERIOUSLY  WEAKENED  by  a  devastating  civil 
war,  the  Somali  economy  was  further  undermined  by  the  fall  of 
President  Mahammad  Siad  Barre's  government  in  late  January 
1991  and  the  subsequent  absence  of  political  consensus.  Economic 
statistics  from  the  early  post-Siad  Barre  period  were  not  avail- 
able in  the  latter  part  of  1992;  however,  one  can  gain  some  under- 
standing of  Somalia's  economic  situation  during  that  period  by 
looking  at  the  country's  prior  economic  history. 

Generally,  interventions  in  the  Somali  economy,  whether  by 
Italian  fascists,  Somali  Marxists,  or  International  Monetary  Fund 
(IMF — see  Glossary)  economists,  have  had  minimal  impact  on  eco- 
nomic development.  Yet  the  shrewd  Somalis  have  been  able  to  sur- 
vive and  even  prosper  in  their  harsh  desert  homeland. 

Pastoralism  and  Commerce  in  Historical  Perspective 

The  Somalis  raise  cattle,  sheep,  and  goats,  but  the  camel  plays 
the  central  role  as  an  indicator  of  wealth  and  success.  Camels  can 
survive  in  an  environment  where  water  and  grazing  areas  are  scarce 
and  widely  scattered.  They  provide  meat,  milk,  and  transporta- 
tion for  Somali  pastoralists,  and  serve  as  their  principal  medium 
of  exchange.  Camels  are  provided  as  compensation  for  homicides 
and  are  a  standard  component  of  the  dowry  package. 

For  centuries,  nomads  have  relied  on  their  livestock  for  subsis- 
tence and  luxuries.  They  have  sold  cows,  goats,  and  older  camels 
to  international  traders  and  butchers  in  the  coastal  cities,  and  in 
the  urban  markets  have  bought  tea,  coffee  beans,  and  salt.  In  the 
nineteenth  century,  northern  Somalis  were  quick  to  take  advan- 
tage of  the  market  for  goats  with  middlemen  representing  the  Brit- 
ish, who  needed  meat  for  their  enclave  in  Aden,  a  coaling  station 
for  ships  traveling  through  the  Suez  Canal.  By  the  turn  of  the  cen- 
tury, about  1,000  cattle  and  80,000  sheep  and  goats  were  being 
exported  annually  from  Berbera  to  Aden. 

Starting  in  the  fifteenth  century,  the  ports  of  Seylac  and  Ber- 
bera were  well  integrated  into  the  international  Arab  economy,  with 
weapons,  slaves,  hides,  skins,  gums,  ghee  (a  type  of  butter),  os- 
trich feathers,  and  ivory  being  traded.  On  the  Banaadir  coast,  es- 
pecially in  Mogadishu  but  also  in  Merca  and  Baraawe,  a  lively 
trade  with  China,  India,  and  Arabia  existed  as  early  as  the  four- 
teenth century.  Finally,  starting  with  the  Somalis,  who  for  centu- 
ries have  joined  the  crews  of  oceangoing  ships,  the  exportation  of 


121 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

labor  has  long  been  a  crucial  element  in  Somalia's  ability  to  sus- 
tain itself. 

The  Colonial  Economy 

The  colonial  era  did  not  spark  foreign  economic  investment 
despite  the  competition  of  three  major  European  powers  in  the  area 
of  present-day  Somalia.  Italy  controlled  southern  Somalia;  Britain, 
northern  Somalia,  especially  the  coastal  region;  and  France,  the 
area  that  became  Djibouti  (see  Imperial  Partition,  ch.  1).  Italian 
parliamentary  opposition  restricted  any  government  activity  in 
Somalia  for  years  after  European  treaties  recognized  Italian  claims. 
In  the  early  twentieth  century,  projects  aimed  at  using  Somalia 
as  a  settlement  for  Italian  citizens  from  the  crowded  homeland  failed 
miserably.  Although  in  the  early  1930s  Benito  Mussolini  drew  up 
ambitious  plans  for  economic  development,  actual  investment  was 
modest. 

There  was  still  less  investment  in  British  Somaliland,  which  In- 
dia had  administered.  During  the  prime  ministership  of  William 
Gladstone  in  the  1880s,  it  was  decided  the  British  India  govern- 
ment should  be  responsible  for  administering  the  Somaliland  pro- 
tectorate because  the  Somali  coast's  strategic  location  on  the  Gulf 
of  Aden  was  important  to  India.  Customs  taxes  helped  pay  for  In- 
dia's patrol  of  Somalia's  Red  Sea  coast.  The  biggest  investment 
by  the  British  colonial  government  in  its  three-quarters  of  a  cen- 
tury of  rule  was  in  putting  down  the  rebellion  of  the  dervishes.  In 
1947,  long  after  the  dervish  war  of  the  early  1900s,  the  entire  budget 
for  the  administration  of  the  British  protectorate  was  only  £213, 139 
(see  Sayyid  Mahammad's  Dervish  Resistance  to  Colonial  Occu- 
pation, ch.  1).  If  Italy's  rhetoric  concerning  Italian  Somaliland  out- 
paced performance,  Britain  had  no  illusions  about  its  protectorate 
in  Somaliland.  At  best,  the  Somali  protectorate  had  some  strate- 
gic value  to  Britain's  eastern  trading  empire  in  protecting  the  trade 
route  to  Aden  and  India  and  helping  assure  a  steady  supply  of  food 
for  Aden. 

The  two  major  economic  developments  of  the  colonial  era  were 
the  establishment  of  plantations  in  the  interriverine  area  and  the 
creation  of  a  salaried  official  class.  In  the  south,  the  Italians  laid 
the  basis  for  profitable  export-oriented  agriculture,  primarily  in 
bananas,  through  the  creation  of  plantations  and  irrigation  sys- 
tems. In  both  the  north  and  the  south,  a  stable  petty  bourgeois 
class  emerged.  Somalis  became  civil  servants,  teachers,  and  sol- 
diers, petty  traders  in  coastal  cities,  and  small-business  proprietors. 

The  plantation  system  began  in  1919,  with  the  arrival  in  Italian 
Somaliland  of  Prince  Luigi  Amedeo  of  Savoy,  duke  of  Abruzzi, 


122 


The  Economy 


and  with  the  technical  support  of  the  fascist  administration  of  Gover- 
nor Cesare  Maria  dei  Vecchi  di  Val  Cismon.  The  Shabeelle  Val- 
ley was  chosen  as  the  site  of  these  plantations  because  for  most  of 
the  year  the  Shabeelle  River  had  sufficient  water  for  irrigation.  The 
plantations  produced  cotton  (the  first  Somali  export  crop),  sugar, 
and  bananas.  Banana  exports  to  Italy  began  in  1927,  and  gained 
primary  importance  in  the  colony  after  1929,  when  the  world  cot- 
ton market  collapsed.  Somali  bananas  could  not  compete  in  price 
with  those  from  the  Canary  Islands,  but  in  1927  and  1930  Italy 
passed  laws  imposing  tariffs  on  all  non-Somali  bananas.  These  laws 
facilitated  Somali  agricultural  development  so  that  between  1929 
and  1936  the  area  under  banana  cultivation  increased  seventeen- 
fold  to  3,975  hectares.  By  1935  the  Italian  government  had  con- 
stituted a  Royal  Banana  Plantation  Monopoly  (Regia  Azienda 
Monopolio  Banane — RAMB)  to  organize  banana  exports  under 
state  authority.  Seven  Italian  ships  were  put  at  RAMB's  disposal 
to  encourage  the  Somali  banana  trade.  After  World  War  II,  when 
the  United  Nations  (UN)  granted  republican  Italy  jurisdiction  over 
Somalia  as  a  trust  territory,  RAMB  was  reconstituted  as  the  Banana 
Plantation  Monopoly  (Azienda  Monopolio  Banane — AMB)  to  en- 
courage the  revival  of  a  sector  that  had  been  nearly  demolished 
by  the  war. 

Plantation  agriculture  under  Italian  tutelage  had  short-term  suc- 
cess, but  Somali  products  never  became  internationally  competi- 
tive. In  1955  a  total  of  235  concessions  embraced  more  than  45,300 
hectares  (with  only  7,400  hectares  devoted  to  bananas),  and  pro- 
duced 94,000  tons  of  bananas.  Under  fixed  contracts,  the  three 
banana  trade  associations  sold  their  output  to  the  AMB,  which  ex- 
acted an  indirect  tax  on  the  Italian  consumer  by  keeping  out  cheaper 
bananas  from  other  sources.  The  protected  Italian  market  was  a 
mixed  blessing  for  the  Somali  banana  sector.  Whereas  it  made  pos- 
sible the  initial  penetration  by  Somali  bananas  of  the  Italian  mar- 
ketplace, it  also  eliminated  incentives  for  Somali  producers  to 
become  internationally  competitive  or  to  seek  markets  beyond  Italy. 

The  investment  in  cotton  showed  fewer  long-term  results  than 
the  investment  in  bananas.  Cotton  showed  some  promise  in  1929, 
but  its  price  fell  following  the  collapse  in  the  world  market.  Nearly 
1 ,400  tons  in  1929  exports  shrank  to  about  400  tons  by  1937.  During 
the  trust  period,  there  were  years  of  modest  success;  in  1952,  for 
example,  about  1,000  tons  of  cotton  were  exported.  There  was 
however,  no  consistent  growth.  In  1953  exports  dropped  by  two- 
thirds.  Two  reasons  are  given  for  cotton's  failure  as  an  export  crop: 
an  unstable  world  market  and  the  lack  of  Somali  wage  labor  for  cot- 
ton harvesting.  Because  of  the  labor  scarcity,  Italian  concessionaires 


123 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

worked  out  coparticipation  contracts  with  Somali  farmers;  the 
Italians  received  sole  purchasing  rights  to  the  crop  in  return  for 
providing  seed,  cash  advances,  and  technical  support. 

Another  plantation  crop,  sugarcane,  was  more  successful.  The 
sugar  economy  differed  from  the  banana  and  cotton  economies  in 
two  respects:  sugar  was  raised  for  domestic  consumption,  and  a 
single  firm,  the  Italo-Somali  Agricultural  Society  (Societa  Agrico- 
la  Italo-Somala — SAIS),  headquartered  in  Genoa,  controlled  the 
sector.  Organized  in  1920,  the  SAIS  estate  near  Giohar  had,  by 
the  time  of  the  trust  period,  a  little  less  than  2,000  hectares  under 
cultivation.  In  1950  the  sugar  factory's  output  reached  4,000  tons, 
enough  to  meet  about  80  percent  of  domestic  demand;  by  1957 
production  had  reached  11,000  tons,  and  Italian  Somaliland  no 
longer  imported  sugar. 

Labor  shortages  beset  Italian  concessionaires  and  administra- 
tors in  all  plantation  industries.  Most  Somalis  refused  to  work  on 
farms  for  wage  labor.  The  Italians  at  first  conscripted  the  Bantu 
people  who  lived  in  the  agricultural  region.  Later,  Italian  compa- 
nies paid  wages  to  agricultural  families  to  plant  and  harvest  ex- 
port crops,  and  permitted  them  to  keep  private  gardens  on  some 
of  the  irrigated  land.  This  strategy  met  with  some  success,  and  a 
relatively  permanent  work  force  developed.  Somali  plantation 
agriculture  was  of  only  marginal  significance  to  the  world  econo- 
my, however.  Banana  exports  reached  US$6.4  million  in  1957; 
those  of  cotton,  US$200,000.  But  in  1957  plantation  exports  con- 
stituted 59  percent  of  total  exports,  representing  a  major  contri- 
bution to  the  Somali  economy. 

The  colonial  period  also  involved  government  employment  of 
salaried  officials  and  the  concomitant  growth  of  a  small  urban  pet- 
ty bourgeoisie.  In  the  north,  the  British  administration  originally 
had  concentrated  on  the  coastal  area  for  trading  purposes  but  soon 
discovered  that  livestock  to  be  traded  came  from  the  interior.  There- 
fore, it  was  necessary  to  safeguard  caravan  routes  and  keep  peace 
in  port  areas,  requiring  the  development  of  police  forces  and  other 
civil  services.  In  British  Somaliland,  many  of  the  nomads  scorned 
European  education  and  opposed  the  establishment  of  Christian 
missions.  Consequently,  only  a  small  pool  of  literate  Somalis  was 
available  to  work  for  the  British  administration.  Kenyans  there- 
fore were  hired.  In  the  south,  however,  Somalis  sent  children  to 
colonial  and  mission  schools,  and  the  graduates  found  civil  service 
positions  in  the  police  force  and  as  customs  agents,  bookkeepers, 
medical  personnel,  and  teachers.  These  civil  servants  became  a 
natural  market  for  new  retail  businesses,  restaurants,  and  coffee 
shops.  Hargeysa  in  the  precolonial  period  had  almost  no  permanent 


124 


The  Economy 


commercial  establishments;  by  1945,  nearly  500  businesses  were 
registered  in  the  district.  The  new  salaried  class  filled  the  ranks 
of  the  Somali  nationalist  movement  after  World  War  II.  Literate 
in  Italian  or  English,  these  urban  Somalis  challenged  colonial  rule. 

Economic  Development,  1960-69 

At  independence  the  Somali  economy  was  at  a  near  subsistence 
level,  and  the  new  state  lacked  the  administrative  capacity  to  col- 
lect taxes  from  subsistence  herders  and  farmers.  The  state  could 
rely  on  the  customs  taxes  from  international  trade,  which  were  easier 
to  collect,  but  tariffs  failed  to  meet  the  needs  of  a  government  with 
ambitious  development  goals.  Somalia  therefore  relied  on  Italian 
and  British  subsidies,  which  funded  about  31  percent  of  the  new 
nation's  current  budget  in  the  first  three  years  of  independence. 

Somalia  also  received  grants  and  loans  from  countries  in  the  East 
and  the  West,  which  made  possible  the  articulation  of  an  ambi- 
tious development  plan  by  1963.  A  five-year  plan  with  a  budget 
of  more  than  US$100  million  in  grants  and  loans,  it  focused  on 
investment  in  infrastructure.  The  plan's  thesis  was  that  plantation 
crops  and  livestock  exports  would  increase  if  there  were  better  roads, 
transportation  facilities,  ports,  and  irrigation  works.  Another  large 
investment  was  made  in  the  creation  of  model  farms  to  attract  farm- 
ers from  around  the  country,  who  would  learn  improved  techniques 
to  apply  on  their  own  farms.  Model  farms  in  Baidoa  in  the  Bay 
Region,  Afgooye  near  Mogadishu,  and  Tog  Wajaale,  west  of  Har- 
geysa,  were  established  during  this  period. 

In  the  pastoral  sector,  the  Livestock  Development  Agency, 
formed  in  1965-66,  emphasized  veterinary  services,  the  provision 
of  water  and  of  holding  grounds  for  cattle  while  they  were  under- 
going inoculation,  and  transportation.  Somali  pastoralists  responded 
with  enthusiasm  to  the  prospects  for  wealth  by  entering  the  inter- 
national market  for  livestock.  In  the  early  1960s,  the  value  and 
number  of  exported  livestock  approximately  doubled,  and  livestock 
soon  surpassed  bananas  as  Somalia's  leading  export. 

There  were  therefore  some  notable  successes  among  Somalia's 
early  development  projects.  The  nation  became  nearly  self-sufficient 
in  sugar,  and  banana  exports  grew,  albeit  haltingly.  Livestock  ex- 
ports increased,  and  investments  in  roads  and  irrigation  facilities 
resulted  in  some  genuine  improvements. 

But  the  1960s  also  yielded  great  disillusionment.  The  country 
could  not  overcome  its  dependence  on  foreign  assistance,  even  to 
meet  its  current  budget.  Moreover,  imports  of  foreign  grains  in- 
creased rapidly,  indicating  that  the  agricultural  sector  was  not  meet- 
ing the  needs  of  the  growing  urban  population.  The  modern 


125 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

agricultural  techniques  of  state  farms  had  little  influence  on  tradi- 
tional farming  practices.  Because  of  a  boom  in  livestock  exports 
from  Hargeysa,  cows,  goats,  and  camels  were  becoming  concen- 
trated in  northern  Somalia,  much  to  the  detriment  of  rangelands. 
The  UN  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  (FAO)  foresaw  the 
dire  effects  of  the  1974  drought  in  a  1967  report  that  noted  the  se- 
vere range  deterioration.  Finally,  and  perhaps  most  important, 
many  Somalis  were  enervated  by  the  feeling  that  political  incum- 
bents, through  electoral  manipulations,  were  squandering  the  na- 
tion's economic  resources  for  their  private  benefit  (see  The  Igaal 
Government,  ch.  1). 

Scientific  Socialism,  1970-75 

Mahammad  Siad  Barre  legitimated  his  1969  coup  d'etat  in  terms 
of  the  national  economic  malaise.  On  October  20,  1970,  the  first 
anniversary  of  the  coup,  he  announced: 

In  our  Revolution  we  believe  that  we  have  broken  the 
chain  of  a  consumer  economy  based  on  imports,  and  we 
are  free  to  decide  our  destiny.  And  in  order  to  realize 
the  interests  of  the  Somali  people,  their  achievement  of 
a  better  life,  the  full  development  of  their  potentialities 
and  the  fulfillment  of  their  aspirations,  we  solemnly 
declare  Somalia  to  be  a  Socialist  State. 
Relying  on  Soviet  advisers  and  a  committed  group  of  Italian- 
educated  Somali  "leftist"  intellectuals,  Siad  Barre  announced  the 
1971-73  Three- Year  Plan  (see  Siad  Barre  and  Scientific  Social- 
ism, ch.  1).  The  plan  emphasized  a  higher  standard  of  living  for 
every  Somali,  jobs  for  all  who  sought  work,  and  the  eradication 
of  capitalist  exploitation.  Agricultural  "crash  programs"  and  cre- 
ation of  new  manufacturing  plants  were  the  immediate  results. 

Siad  Barre  quickly  brought  a  substantial  proportion  of  the  modern 
economy  under  state  control.  The  government  nationalized  banks, 
insurance  companies,  petroleum  distribution  firms,  and  the  sugar- 
refining  plant  and  created  national  agencies  for  construction  materi- 
als and  foodstuffs.  Although  the  Somali  neologism  for  socialism, 
hantiwadaag,  could  be  translated  as  the  "sharing  of  livestock, "  camel 
herds  were  not  nationalized,  and  Siad  Barre  reassured  pastoral  - 
ists  that  hantiwadaag  would  not  affect  their  animals.  To  mollify 
international  business,  in  1972  Siad  Barre  announced  a  liberal  in- 
vestment code.  Because  the  modern  economy  was  so  small,  na- 
tionalization was  more  showmanship  than  a  radical  change  in  the 
economy. 

The  creation  of  cooperatives  soon  became  a  cornerstone  in  build- 
ing a  socialist  economy.  In  1973  the  government  decreed  the  Law 


126 


Herd  of  cattle  and  flock  of  goats  at  watering  hole  north  of  Chisimayu;  such 

animals  represent  a  major  Somali  export. 

Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 


127 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

on  Cooperative  Development,  with  most  funds  going  into  the 
agricultural  sector.  In  the  precoup  years,  agricultural  programs  had 
received  less  than  10  percent  of  total  spending.  By  1974  the  figure 
was  29. 1  percent.  The  investment  in  cooperatives  had  limited  long- 
term  results,  however.  In  Galole  near  Hargeysa,  for  example,  a 
government  team  established  a  cooperative  in  1973,  and  govern- 
ment funds  helped  purchase  a  tractor,  a  cooperative  center,  and 
a  grain  storage  tank.  Members  received  token  salaries  as  well.  But 
in  July  1977,  with  the  beginning  of  the  Ogaden  War,  state  involve- 
ment in  Galole  ended;  by  1991  the  cooperative  was  no  longer  in 
operation. 

Cooperatives  also  aimed  at  the  nomad,  although  on  a  smaller 
scale.  The  1974-78  Development  Plan  allocated  only  4.2  percent 
of  the  budgeted  funds  to  livestock.  Government  officials  argued 
that  the  scientific  management  of  rangeland — the  regeneration  of 
grazing  lands  and  the  drilling  of  new  water  holes — would  be  pos- 
sible only  under  socialist  cooperation.  In  the  fourteen  government- 
established  cooperatives,  each  family  received  an  exclusive  area  of 
200  to  300  hectares  of  grazing  land;  in  times  of  drought,  common 
land  under  reserve  was  to  become  available.  The  government  com- 
mitted itself  to  providing  educational  and  health  services  as  well 
as  serving  as  a  marketing  oudet  for  excess  stock.  Neither  agricultural 
nor  fishing  cooperatives,  however,  proved  economically  profitable. 

Integrated  agricultural  development  projects  were  somewhat 
more  successful  than  the  cooperatives.  The  Northwest  Region 
Agricultural  Development  Project,  for  example,  survived  the  1980s. 
Building  upon  the  bunding  (creation  of  embankments  to  control 
the  flow  of  water)  done  by  the  British  in  the  1950s  and  by  the  United 
States  Agency  for  International  Development  (AID)  in  the  1960s, 
the  World  Bank  (see  Glossary)  picked  up  the  program  in  the  1970s 
and  1980s.  Yields  from  bunded  farms  increased  between  2.40  and 
13.74  quintals  per  hectare  over  the  yields  from  unbunded  farms. 
However,  overall  improvement  in  agricultural  production  was  hard- 
ly noticeable  at  a  macroeconomic  level  (see  table  2,  Appendix). 

Somalia's  rural-based  socialist  programs  attracted  internation- 
al development  agencies.  The  Kuwait  Fund  for  Arab  Economic 
Development  (KFAED),  AID,  and  the  FAO  participated  first  in 
the  Northern  Rangelands  Development  Project  in  1977  and  in  the 
Central  Rangelands  Project  in  1979.  These  projects  called  for  rotat- 
ing grazing  areas,  using  reserves,  and  creating  new  boreholes,  but 
the  drought  of  1974  and  political  events  undid  most  efforts. 

During  1974-75  a  drought  devastated  the  pastoral  economy. 
Major  General  Husseen  Kulmiye  headed  the  National  Drought 
Relief  Committee,  which  sought  relief  aid  from  abroad,  among 


128 


The  Economy 


other  programs.  By  January  1975,  China,  the  United  States,  the 
European  Economic  Community,  the  Soviet  Union,  Sweden,  Swit- 
zerland, Sudan,  Algeria,  Yugoslavia,  Yemen,  and  others  had 
pledged  66,229  tons  of  grain,  1 , 155  tons  of  milk  powder,  and  tons 
of  other  food  products.  Later  that  year,  with  aid  from  the  Soviet 
Union,  the  government  transported  about  90,000  nomads  from 
their  hamlets  to  agricultural  and  fishing  cooperatives  in  the  south. 
The  regime  established  new  agricultural  cooperatives  at  Dujuu- 
ma  on  the  Jubba  River  (about  18,000  hectares),  Kurtun  Waarey 
near  the  Shabeelle  River  (about  6,000  hectares),  and  Sablaale  north- 
west of  Chisimayu  (about  6,000  hectares).  The  KFAED  and  the 
World  Bank  supported  irrigation  projects  in  these  cooperatives, 
in  which  corn,  beans,  peanuts,  and  rice  were  planted.  Because  the 
government  provided  seeds,  water,  management,  health  facilities, 
and  schools,  as  well  as  workers'  salaries,  the  farms  were  really  state- 
owned  farms  rather  than  cooperatives.  Essentially,  they  became 
havens  for  women  and  children  because  after  the  drought  the  men 
went  off  inland  with  whatever  money  they  had  accumulated  to  buy 
livestock  to  replenish  their  stock  of  animals. 

The  government  also  established  fishing  cooperatives.  Despite 
a  long  coastline  and  an  estimated  potential  yield  of  150,000  tons 
per  year  of  all  species  of  fish,  in  the  early  1970s  fishing  accounted 
for  less  than  1  percent  of  Somalia's  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — 
see  Glossary).  In  1975  cooperatives  were  established  at  Eyl,  a  port 
in  the  Nugaal  region;  Cadale,  a  port  120  kilometers  northeast  of 
Mogadishu;  and  Baraawe.  The  Soviet  Union  supplied  modern 
trawlers;  when  Soviet  personnel  left  Somalia  in  1978,  Australia  and 
Italy  supported  these  fishing  projects.  Despite  their  potential  and 
broad-based  international  support,  these  cooperatives  failed  to  be- 
come profitable. 

Siad  Barre  emphasized  the  great  economic  successes  of  the  so- 
cialist experiment,  a  claim  that  had  some  truth  in  the  first  five  years 
of  the  revolution.  In  this  period,  the  government  reorganized  the 
sole  milk-processing  plant  to  make  it  more  productive;  established 
tomato-canning,  wheat  flour,  pasta,  cigarette,  and  match  facto- 
ries; opened  a  plant  that  manufactured  cardboard  boxes  and  poly- 
ethylene bags;  and  established  several  grain  mills  and  a  petroleum 
refinery.  In  addition,  the  state  put  into  operation  a  meat-processing 
plant  in  Chisimayu,  as  well  as  a  fish-processing  factory  in  Laas 
Qpray  northeast  of  Erigavo.  The  state  worked  to  expand  sugar  oper- 
ations in  Giohar  and  to  build  a  new  sugar-processing  facility  in 
Afgooye.  In  three  of  the  four  leading  light  industries — canned 
meats,  milk,  and  textiles — there  were  increases  in  output  between 
1969  and  1975. 


129 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Progress  in  the  early  socialist  period  was  not  uniform,  however. 
The  government  heralded  various  programs  in  the  transport,  pack- 
aging, irrigation,  drainage,  fertilization,  and  spraying  of  the  banana 
crop.  Yet,  despite  the  boom  year  of  1972,  banana  exports  declined. 

The  Socialist  Revolution  after  1975 

Popular  enthusiasm  for  the  revolution  began  to  dissipate  by  the 
mid-1970s.  Many  officials  had  become  corrupt,  using  their  posi- 
tions for  personal  gain,  and  a  number  of  ideologues  had  been  purged 
from  the  administration  as  potential  threats  to  their  military  su- 
periors. Perhaps  most  important,  Siad  Barre's  regime  was  focus- 
ing its  attention  on  the  political  goal  of  "liberating"  the  Ogaden 
(Ogaadeen)  rather  than  on  the  economic  goal  of  socialist  transfor- 
mation. The  Somali  economy  was  hurt  as  much  by  these  factors 
and  by  the  economic  cost  of  creating  a  large  modern  army  as  it 
was  by  the  concurrent  drought.  Two  economic  trends  from  this 
period  were  noteworthy:  increasing  debt  and  the  collapse  of  the 
small  industrial  sector. 

During  the  1970s,  foreign  debt  increased  faster  than  export  earn- 
ings. By  the  end  of  the  decade,  Somalia's  debt  of  4  billion  shillings 
(for  value  of  the  shilling — see  Glossary)  equaled  the  earnings  from 
seventy-five  years'  worth  of  banana  exports  (based  on  1978  data). 
About  one-third  was  owed  to  centrally  planned  economies  (main- 
ly the  Soviet  Union,  US$1 10  million;  China,  US$87.2  million;  with 
small  sums  to  Bulgaria  and  the  German  Democratic  Republic  (East 
Germany)).  Another  one-third  of  the  debt  was  owed  to  countries 
in  the  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development 
(OECD).  Finally,  one-third  was  owed  to  the  Arab  Fund  for  Eco- 
nomic and  Social  Development,  US$34.7  million;  and  to  mem- 
bers of  the  Organization  of  the  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries 
(OPEC)  (principally  Saudi  Arabia,  US$81 .9  million;  United  Arab 
Emirates,  US$67.0  million;  Kuwait,  US$27.1  million;  and  smaller 
amounts  to  Iraq,  Qatar,  the  OPEC  special  account,  Libya,  and 
Algeria,  in  that  order).  Many  loans,  especially  from  the  Soviet 
Union,  were,  in  effect,  written  off.  Later,  many  loan  repayments 
to  OECD  states  were  rescheduled.  But  thanks  to  the  accumulated 
debt  burden,  by  the  1980s  the  economy  could  not  attract  foreign 
capital,  and  virtually  all  international  funds  made  available  to  Soma- 
lia in  rescheduling  agreements  came  with  the  provision  that  inter- 
national civil  servants  would  monitor  all  expenditures.  As  a  result 
of  its  international  debt,  therefore,  Somalia  lost  control  over  its 
macroeconomic  structure. 

A  second  ominous  trend  in  the  1975-81  period  was  the  decline  of 
the  manufacturing  sector.  Exports  of  manufactured  goods  were 


130 


Camels  at  watering  hole  near  Luuq  on  the  Jubba  River;  camels  remain  a 

mainstay  of  tribal  herders. 
Water  pump  directing  water  into  a  trough  for  communal  use 

Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 

131 

  ^ 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

negligible  when  the  1969  coup  occurred;  by  the  mid-1970s, 
manufactured  goods  constituted  20  percent  of  total  exports.  By 
1978,  as  a  consequence  of  the  Ogaden  War,  such  exports  were 
almost  nonexistent.  Production  likewise  suffered.  In  1969  Soma- 
lia refined  47,000  tons  of  sugar;  by  1980  the  figure  was  29,100  tons 
(all  figures  are  for  fiscal  year  (FY) — see  Glossary).  In  1975  the  coun- 
try produced  14.4  million  cans  of  meat  and  2,220  tons  of  canned 
fish.  In  1979  it  produced  1.5  million  cans  of  meat  and  a  negligible 
amount  of  canned  fish.  Textile  output  rose  over  the  period.  The 
only  material  produced,  however,  was  a  coarse  fabric  sold  to  rural 
people  (and  worn  by  the  president)  at  less  than  cost.  In  milk,  pas- 
ta, packaging  materials,  cigarettes,  and  matches,  the  trend  was 
downward  in  the  second  half  of  the  1970s. 

From  Scientific  Socialism  to  "IMF-ism,"  1981-90 

Its  socialist  program  in  disarray  and  its  alliance  with  the  Soviet 
Union  lost  in  the  wake  of  the  1977-78  Ogaden  War,  Somalia  once 
again  turned  to  the  West  (see  Relations  with  the  United  States, 
Other  Foreign  Relations,  ch.  4;  Foreign  Military  Assistance,  ch. 
5).  Like  most  countries  devastated  by  debt  in  the  late  1970s,  Somalia 
could  rely  only  on  the  nostrums  of  the  IMF  and  its  program  of 
structural  adjustment. 

In  February  1980,  a  standby  macroeconomic  policy  agreement 
with  the  IMF  was  signed,  but  not  implemented.  The  standby  agree- 
ments of  July  1981  and  July  1982  were  completed  in  July  1982  and 
January  1984,  respectively.  To  meet  IMF  standards,  the  govern- 
ment terminated  its  policy  of  acting  as  the  last-resort  employer  of 
all  secondary  school  graduates  and  abolished  its  monopoly  on  grain 
marketing.  The  government  then  prepared  a  medium- term  recovery 
program  consisting  of  a  public  investment  program  for  1984-86 
and  a  phased  program  of  policy  reforms.  Because  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA)  (see  World  Bank — Glossary)  con- 
sidered this  program  too  ambitious,  the  government  scaled  down 
its  projects,  most  notably  the  construction  of  the  Baardheere  Dam, 
which  AID  had  advised  against.  The  government  abandoned  its 
first  reform  program  in  1984.  In  March  1984,  the  government 
signed  a  letter  of  intent  accepting  the  terms  of  a  new  US$183  mil- 
lion IMF  extended  credit  facility  to  run  for  three  years.  In  a  Somali 
Council  of  Ministers  meeting  in  April,  however,  this  agreement 
was  canceled  by  one  vote,  as  the  soldier-ministers  chafed  at  the 
proposed  60  percent  cut  in  the  military  budget.  The  agreement 
also  called  for  a  further  devaluation  of  the  shilling  and  reductions 
in  government  personnel. 


132 


The  Economy 


A  new  crisis  hit  Somalia  in  June  1983.  The  Saudi  Arabian  gov- 
ernnment  decided  to  stop  importing  Somali  cattle,  and  this  ban  soon 
was  expanded  to  include  sheep  and  goats.  Saudi  officials  claimed 
that  rinderpest  had  been  detected  in  Somali  livestock,  making  them 
unsafe.  Cynics  pointed  out  that  Saudi  businessmen  recently  had 
invested  in  Australian  ranches  and  were  seeking  to  carve  out  an 
export  market  for  their  product.  In  any  event,  the  ban  created  a 
large  budget  deficit,  and  arrears  on  debt  service  started  to  accumu- 
late. A  major  obstacle  to  expanding  livestock  and  other  exports  was 
Somalia's  lack  of  communications  infrastructure:  good  roads  and 
shipping  facilities  as  well  as  effective  telecommunications  and  postal 
services.  Lack  of  banking  facilities  also  posed  a  problem.  Somalia 
could  not  easily  avoid  the  medicine  of  structural  adjustment. 

In  March  1985,  in  negotiations  with  the  Paris  Club  (the  infor- 
mal name  for  a  consortium  of  eighteen  Western  creditor  countries), 
Somalia's  debt  service  schedule  was  restructured,  and  the  govern- 
ment adopted  a  reform  program  that  included  a  devaluation  and 
the  establishment  of  a  free  market  for  foreign  exchange  for  most 
private  transactions  (see  table  3,  Appendix).  In  November  1985, 
in  conjunction  with  the  Consultative  Group  of  Aid  Donors,  a  tech- 
nical body  of  the  Paris  Club,  the  government  presented  its  Na- 
tional Development  Strategy  and  Programme  with  a  revised 
three-year  investment  program.  Western  aid  officials  criticized  this 
program  as  too  ambitious.  In  June  1986,  the  government  negotiated 
an  agricultural  sector  adjustment  program  with  IDA.  In  Septem- 
ber 1986,  a  foreign  exchange  auction  system  was  initiated,  but  its 
operation  encountered  severe  difficulties  because  of  its  complete 
dependence  on  external  aid.  Many  exchange  rates  applicable  to 
different  types  of  transactions  consequently  came  into  existence. 

AID  prepared  a  second-stage  project  report  in  1986  that  renewed 
the  call  for  privatization.  It  praised  the  government  for  permitting 
the  free  importation  of  petroleum  products,  but  chided  the  Soma- 
lis  for  not  yet  allowing  the  free  marketing  of  hides  and  skins.  AID 
put  great  pressure  on  the  government,  especially  by  means  of  lob- 
byists, to  take  action  on  legislation  to  permit  private  banking.  To 
encourage  the  private  sector  further,  AID  was  prepared  to  fund 
the  Somali  Chamber  of  Commerce  if  the  Somali  government  would 
allow  it  to  become  an  independent  body.  The  1986  report  went 
beyond  privatization  by  calling  for  means  of  improving  the  govern- 
ment's  revenue  collection  and  budgetary  control  systems.  Build- 
ing a  government  capable  of  collecting  taxes,  making  policy  reforms, 
and  addressing  fiscal  problems  became  the  new  focus.  Along  these 
lines,  AID  encouraged  the  elimination  of  civil  service  jobs.  As  of 
1985,  although  5,000  civil  servants  had  been  dismissed,  AID  felt 


133 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

that  80  percent  of  the  civil  service  was  still  redundant.  AID  offi- 
cials, however,  urged  pay  raises  for  those  in  useful  jobs. 

Somalia's  Five- Year  Plan  for  1987-91  largely  reflected  the  in- 
ternational pressures  and  incentives  of  the  IMF  and  AID.  Privati- 
zation was  written  into  the  plan,  as  were  development  projects  that 
were  smaller  in  scale  and  more  easily  implemented.  By  1988  the 
government  had  announced  implementation  of  many  IMF-  and 
AID-encouraged  structural  adjustment  policies.  In  regard  to  for- 
eign exchange,  the  government  had  taken  many  intermediate  steps 
that  would  lead  to  the  merger  of  the  pegged  and  market  rates.  As 
for  banking,  legislation  had  been  enacted  allowing  private  banks 
to  operate.  In  public  finance,  the  government  had  reduced  its  deficit 
from  10  to  7  percent  of  GDP,  as  had  been  advised,  but  ac- 
knowledged that  the  increased  taxes  on  fuel,  rent,  and  sales  had 
been  only  partially  implemented.  A  value-added  tax  on  fuel  im- 
ports remained  under  consideration,  but  the  tax  on  rental  income 
had  been  increased  and  the  sales  tax  raised  from  5  to  10  percent. 
The  government  continued  to  procrastinate  concerning  public  en- 
terprises, holding  only  informal  discussion  of  plans  to  liquidate  un- 
profitable enterprises. 

The  IMF  corrected  some  of  the  worst  abuses  of  the  socialist  ex- 
periment. With  the  devaluation  of  the  shilling,  the  real  cost  of  for- 
eign grain  became  apparent  to  consumers,  and  the  relative  price 
of  domestic  grain  rose.  Rectifying  prices  induced  a  13.5  percent 
increase  in  agricultural  output  between  1983  and  1985.  Inflation 
was  tamed  as  well,  falling  from  an  annual  rate  of  59  percent  in 
1980  to  36  percent  in  1986.  World  Bank  officials  used  these  data 
to  publicize  the  Somali  success  in  structural  adjustment. 

The  overall  picture  was  not  that  encouraging,  however.  Manufac- 
turing output  declined,  registering  a  drop  of  0.5  percent  per  an- 
num from  1980  to  1987.  Exports  decreased  by  16.3  percent  per 
annum  from  1979  to  1986.  Moreover,  the  0.8  percent  rise  in  GDP 
per  annum  from  1979  to  1986  did  not  keep  up  with  population 
growth.  World  Bank  estimates  put  Somalia's  1989  gross  national 
product  (GNP— see  Glossary)  at  US$1,035  million,  or  US$170  per 
person,  and  further  estimated  that  between  1980  and  1989  real  GNP 
per  person  had  declined  at  1.7  percent  per  year. 

In  the  period  from  1987  to  1989,  the  economic  results  of  agricul- 
tural production  were  mixed.  Although  corn,  sorghum,  and  sugar- 
cane were  principal  crops,  livestock  and  bananas  remained  major 
exports  (see  table  4,  Appendix;  Foreign  Trade,  this  ch.).  The  value 
of  livestock  and  banana  exports  in  1989  (the  latest  year  for  which 
data  were  available  in  mid- 1992)  was  US$26  million  and  US$25 
million,  respectively.  Livestock,  consisting  primarily  of  camels, 


134 


135 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

cattle,  goats,  and  sheep,  served  several  purposes.  The  animals 
provided  milk  and  meat  for  domestic  consumption,  and  livestock, 
hides,  and  skins  for  export  (see  table  5;  table  6,  Appendix). 

As  a  result  of  the  civil  war  in  many  areas,  the  economy  deterio- 
rated rapidly  in  1989  and  1990.  Previously,  livestock  exports  from 
northern  Somalia  represented  nearly  80  percent  of  foreign  currency 
earned,  but  these  exports  came  to  a  virtual  halt  in  1989.  Shortages 
of  most  commodities,  including  food,  fuel,  medicines,  and  water, 
occurred  virtually  countrywide.  Following  the  fall  of  the  Siad  Barre 
regime  in  late  January  1991,  the  situation  failed  to  improve  be- 
cause clan  warfare  intensified.  Statistical  data  were  minimal, 
however,  for  the  period  from  1990  onward. 

Natural  Resources  and  Economic  Infrastructure 

Somalia  is  not  well-endowed  with  natural  resources  that  can  be 
profitably  marketed  internationally,  and  at  independence  the  eco- 
nomic infrastructure  was  poorly  developed.  Throughout  all  three 
eras  in  postindependence  Somalia,  officials  had  sought,  with  mixed 
results,  to  develop  the  economic  infrastructure. 

Land 

Estimates  vary,  but  from  46  to  56  percent  of  Somalia's  land  area 
can  be  considered  permanent  pasture.  About  14  percent  is  classi- 
fied as  forest.  Approximately  13  percent  is  suitable  for  cultivation, 
but  most  of  that  area  would  require  additional  investments  in  wells 
and  roads  for  it  to  be  usable.  The  remaining  land  is  not  economi- 
cally exploitable.  In  the  highlands  around  Hargeysa,  relatively  high 
rainfall  has  raised  the  organic  content  in  the  sandy  calcareous  soils 
characteristic  of  the  northern  plains,  and  this  soil  has  supported 
some  dry  farming.  South  of  Hargeysa  begins  the  Haud,  whose  red 
calcareous  soils  continue  into  the  Ethiopian  Ogaden.  This  soil  sup- 
ports vegetation  ideal  for  camel  grazing.  To  the  east  of  the  Haud 
is  the  Mudug  Plain,  leading  to  the  Indian  Ocean  coast;  this  region, 
too,  supports  a  pastoral  economy.  The  area  between  the  Jubba  and 
Shabeelle  rivers  has  soils  varying  from  reddish  to  dark  clays,  with 
some  alluvial  deposits  and  fine  black  soil.  This  is  the  area  of  plan- 
tation agriculture  and  subsistence  agropastoralism. 

Practices  concerning  land  rights  varied  from  rural  to  urban  areas. 
In  precolonial  times,  traditional  claims  and  interclan  bargaining 
were  used  to  establish  land  rights.  A  small  market  for  land,  espe- 
cially in  the  plantation  areas  of  the  south,  developed  in  the  coloni- 
al period  and  into  the  first  decade  of  independence.  The  socialist 
regime  sought  to  block  land  sales  and  tried  to  lease  all  privately 
owned  land  to  cooperatives  as  concessions.  Despite  the  government's 


136 


The  Economy 


efforts,  a  de  facto  land  market  developed  in  urban  areas;  in  the 
bush,  the  traditional  rights  of  clans  were  maintained. 

The  Siad  Barre  regime  also  took  action  regarding  the  water  sys- 
tem. In  northern  Somalia  from  1988  to  1991,  the  government  de- 
stroyed almost  all  pumping  systems  in  municipal  areas  controlled 
by  the  Somali  National  Movement  (SNM)  or,  failing  that,  stole 
the  equipment.  In  rural  areas,  the  government  poisoned  the  wells 
by  either  inserting  animal  carcasses  or  engine  blocks  that  leaked 
battery  acid.  As  a  result,  northern  Somalis  had  to  rely  on  older 
gravity  water  systems,  use  poor  quality  water,  or  buy  expensive 
water.  Following  the  declaration  of  the  independent  Republic  of 
Somaliland  in  the  north  in  May  1991 ,  the  government  of  the  repub- 
lic began  ongoing  efforts  to  reconstruct  the  water  system. 

In  the  south,  in  the  late  1980s  and  thereafter,  as  a  result  of  war 
damage  and  anarchy,  the  water  situation  in  the  towns  tended  to 
resemble  that  in  the  north.  Few  pumping  systems  were  operation- 
al in  mid- 1992.  Conditions  in  rural  areas  varied.  Many  villages 
had  at  least  one  borehole  from  which  poor  quality  water  could  be 
obtained  in  buckets;  pumps  generally  were  nonfunctioning.  Somalis 
who  lived  near  the  Jubba  or  Shabeelle  rivers  could  obtain  their  water 
directly  from  the  river. 

Energy 

Somalia  relied  principally  on  domestic  wood  and  charcoal  and 
on  imported  petroleum  to  meet  its  energy  needs.  Attempts  to  har- 
ness the  power  of  the  Jubba  River  by  constructing  the  proposed 
Baardheere  Dam  had  not  come  to  fruition  as  of  early  1992.  Elec- 
trical utilities  had  been  state  owned  since  1970,  when  foreign-owned 
enterprises  were  nationalized.  Throughout  the  country,  about  eighty 
different  oil-fired  thermal  and  diesel  power  plants  relied  on  imported 
petroleum.  With  aid  from  Finland,  new  plants  were  constructed 
in  the  Chisimayu  and  Baidoa  areas  in  the  mid-1980s. 

Somalia  relied  on  foreign  donors  (first  the  Soviet  Union  and  then 
Saudi  Arabia)  to  meet  its  petroleum  needs.  In  the  late  1970s,  Iraq 
helped  Somalia  build  a  refinery  at  Jasiira,  northeast  of  Baraawe, 
that  had  a  capacity  of  10,000  barrels  per  day.  But  when  the  Iran- 
Iraq  War  broke  out  in  1980,  deliveries  were  suspended,  and  Somalia 
again  required  refined  oil  imports.  As  of  mid- 1989,  Somalia's 
domestic  requirements  were  again  being  met  by  this  refinery,  but 
deliveries  of  Iraqi  crude  oil  were  erratic.  In  May  1989,  Somalia 
signed  an  agreement  with  the  Industrial  Export,  Import,  and  For- 
eign Trade  Company  of  Romania  by  which  the  company  was  to 
construct  an  oil  refinery  on  the  outskirts  of  Mogadishu.  The  project 
was  to  cost  US$500  million  and  result  in  a  refining  capacity  of 


137 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

200,000  barrels  per  day.  Because  of  events  in  Romania  and  Soma- 
lia, the  refinery  project  had  not  materialized  as  of  mid- 1992. 

Throughout  the  1980s,  various  international  oil  companies  ex- 
plored for  oil  and  natural  gas  deposits  in  Somalia.  In  October  1991, 
the  World  Bank  and  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
announced  the  results  of  its  hydrocarbon  study  in  the  countries  bor- 
dering the  Red  Sea  and  the  Gulf  of  Aden.  The  study  indicated  the 
potential  for  oil  and  gas  in  northern  Somalia  was  good.  In  view 
of  the  civil  war  in  Somalia  following  the  fall  of  Siad  Barre,  however, 
various  foreign  oil  exploration  plans  were  canceled. 

A  successful  innovation  was  the  completion  of  a  wind  energy 
utilization  project.  Four  wind  turbines,  each  rated  at  50  kilowatts, 
were  embedded  in  the  Mogadishu  electrical  grid.  In  1988  these 
turbines  produced  699,420  kilowatt-hours  of  energy.  Total  elec- 
tric energy  produced  in  1988,  the  latest  year  for  which  figures  were 
available  in  mid- 1992,  was  257  million  kilowatt-hours.  Five  self- 
contained  wind  energy  conversion  systems  in  rural  centers  also  were 
planned,  but  as  of  May  1992  there  was  no  information  that  these 
had  been  built. 

Transportation 

In  1988  the  total  expenditure  for  transportation  and  communi- 
cations was  US$57.8  million.  Nearly  55  percent  of  this  amount 
was  for  new  infrastructure;  28  percent  was  for  rehabilitation  and 
maintenance  of  existing  infrastructure.  This  activity  must  be  un- 
derstood in  the  context  of  the  ongoing  civil  war  in  Somalia;  much 
of  the  infrastructure,  particularly  bridges  in  the  north,  either  had 
deteriorated  or  been  destroyed  as  a  result  of  the  fighting.  As  of 
mid- 1992,  no  systematic  study  existed  of  the  infrastructural  costs 
of  the  civil  war. 

At  independence,  Somalia  inherited  a  poorly  developed  trans- 
portation system  consisting  of  a  few  paved  roads  in  the  more  popu- 
lated areas  in  the  south  and  northwest,  four  undeveloped  ports 
equipped  only  with  lighterage  facilities,  and  a  handful  of  usable 
airstrips  (see  fig.  6).  During  the  next  three  decades,  some  improve- 
ment was  made  with  the  help  of  substantial  foreign  aid.  By  1990 
all-weather  roads  connected  most  of  the  important  towns  and  linked 
the  northern  and  southern  parts  of  the  country.  Three  ports  had 
been  substantially  improved,  eight  airports  had  paved  runways, 
and  regular  domestic  air  service  also  was  available.  But  in  mid- 1992, 
the  country  still  lacked  the  necessary  highway  infrastructure  to  open 
up  undeveloped  areas  or  to  link  isolated  regions,  and  shipping  had 
come  to  a  virtual  halt  because  of  the  security  situation. 


138 


The  Economy 


In  1990  Somalia  had  more  than  21,000  kilometers  of  roads,  of 
which  about  2,600  kilometers  were  paved,  2,900  kilometers  were 
gravel,  and  the  remainder  were  improved  earth.  The  country's  prin- 
cipal highway  was  a  1 , 200-kilometer  two-lane  paved  road  that  ran 
from  Chisimayu  in  the  south  through  Mogadishu  to  Hargeysa  in 
the  north.  North  of  Mogadishu,  this  route  ran  inland,  roughly 
paralleling  the  border  with  Ethiopia;  a  100-kilometer  spur  ran  to 
the  Gulf  of  Aden  at  Berbera.  By  early  1992,  much  of  this  road, 
especially  the  northern  part  between  Hargeysa  and  Berbera,  was 
relatively  unsafe  because  of  land  mines.  Somalia's  1988  plan  provid- 
ed for  another  connection  from  this  main  route  to  Bender  Cassim 
on  the  Gulf  of  Aden.  Somalia  had  only  one  paved  road  that  ex- 
tended from  north  of  Mogadishu  to  Ethopia;  all  other  links  to  neigh- 
boring countries  were  dirt  trails  impassable  in  rainy  weather. 

Four  ports  handled  almost  all  of  Somalia's  foreign  trade.  Ber- 
bera, Mogadishu,  and  Chisimayu  were  deepwater  ports  protected 
by  breakwaters.  Merca,  just  south  of  Mogadishu,  was  a  lighter- 
age port  that  required  ships  to  anchor  offshore  in  open  roadsteads 
while  loading  and  unloading.  Mogadishu  was  the  principal  port 
of  entry  for  most  general  cargo.  Berbera  received  general  cargo 
for  the  northern  part  of  the  country  and  handled  much  of  the  na- 
tion's livestock  exports.  United  States  aid  enabled  the  doubling  of 
the  berths  at  the  port  of  Berbera  and  the  deepening  of  the  harbor, 
completed  in  1985  at  a  cost  of  US$37.5  million.  Maydh,  north- 
west of  Erigavo,  was  the  only  other  and  much  smaller  northern 
port.  Chisimayu 's  main  function  was  the  export  of  bananas  and 
meat;  the  meat  was  processed  and  packed  at  the  port.  The  United 
States  also  financed  the  US$42  million  development  of  Chisimayu 
port  in  the  latter  half  of  the  1980s.  Merca  was  an  export  point  for 
bananas.  In  1986  the  Somali  Ports  Authority  launched  a  modern- 
ization project  for  all  ports,  with  concentration  on  Mogadishu.  The 
cost  was  estimated  at  US$24.4  million,  of  which  the  IDA  provid- 
ed US$22.6  million  as  a  credit. 

Mogadishu  International  Airport  was  the  nation's  principal  air- 
field; in  the  1980s,  a  runway  was  extended  to  4,500  meters  (the 
runway  was  one  of  Africa's  longest)  with  United  States  financial 
aid.  The  airport  was  further  expanded  in  1989  by  Italy's  contri- 
bution from  its  emergency  aid  fund  for  Africa.  Only  Mogadishu 
offered  international  flights.  Somali  Airlines,  the  nation's  flag  car- 
rier, was  partially  owned  by  Alitalia,  the  Italian  national  airline. 
Somali  Airlines  in  1989  replaced  its  fleet  of  five  aging  Boeing  707s 
with  one  Airbus  310,  making  it  a  one-plane  international  airline. 
In  1990  domestic  service  linked  Mogadishu  with  Berbera  and  six 
other  Somali  cities;  flights  were  scheduled  at  least  once  a  week. 


139 


Figure  6.  Transportation  System,  1992 


As  of  April  1992,  Somali  Airlines  had  no  scheduled  flights,  domestic 
or  international,  and  no  other  regular  flights  existed. 

Communications 

Somalia's  telecommunications  system  was  rudimentary.  In  1991 
a  ground  satellite  station  linked  with  the  International  Telecom- 
munications Satellite  Organization's  (Intelsat)  Indian  Ocean  satel- 
lite provided  television,  telephone,  and  data  links  with  the  rest 
of  the  world.  A  second  ground  satellite  station,  part  of  the  Arab 


140 


The  Economy 


Organization  for  Space  Communications  (Arabsat),  was  under  con- 
struction. It  was  not  known  in  May  1992  whether  any  of  these  sys- 
tems were  operative.  To  improve  the  telecommunications  system 
between  Somalia  and  European  and  Persian  Gulf  countries,  the 
European  Development  Fund  in  1988  provided  5  million  Europe- 
an currency  units  (ECUs).  Japan  contributed  a  further  US$83  mil- 
lion in  1988  for  a  telecommunications  project  to  be  completed  in 
1991;  implementation  was  delayed,  however,  by  the  anarchy 
prevailing  after  the  fall  of  Siad  Barre. 

Domestic  communications  were  poor.  The  civil  war  in  1988  de- 
stroyed the  Hargeysa  radio  station,  but  the  SNM  in  mid- 1992  con- 
tinued to  broadcast  daily  on  a  frequency  modulation  (FM)  station 
near  Hargeysa  renamed  the  Voice  of  the  Republic  of  Somaliland. 
Two  factions  of  the  United  Somali  Congress  (USC)  in  early  1992 
reportedly  had  radio  transmitters  in  the  south  with  regular  trans- 
missions. The  entire  country  in  1990  had  only  17,000  telephones, 
of  which  14,000  were  in  the  capital.  In  late  1992,  however,  the 
telephone  system  was  virtually  inoperative. 

The  "Real"  Somali  Economy  in  the  1980s 

The  Somali  economy  in  the  1980s,  when  viewed  in  standard  eco- 
nomic terms,  was  characterized  by  minimal  economic  reform  and 
declining  GDP  per  capita.  But  the  macroeconomic  perspectives, 
which  were  based  on  questionable  data,  presented  an  unreliable 
picture  of  the  actual  Somali  economy.  In  fact,  the  macroeconomic 
figures  used  by  the  IMF  and  the  World  Bank  would  lead  one  to 
wonder  how  any  Somalis  could  have  physically  survived  the  re- 
cent years  of  economic  crisis.  Yet  visitors  to  Somalia,  although  dis- 
tressed by  the  civil  war  and  the  wanton  killing,  observed  a  relatively 
well-fed  population  up  until  the  1991-92  drought.  Clearly  a  Somali 
economy  existed  outside  the  realm  of  international  data  collection. 
Examination  of  what  has  been  called  Somalia's  "unconvention- 
al" economy  allows  a  better  appreciation  of  how  the  Somali  econ- 
omy actually  worked. 

Export  of  Labor 

Somalia  was  an  exporter  of  labor  to  other  members  of  the  League 
of  Arab  States  (Arab  League),  and  Somali  citizens  received  remit- 
tances from  these  workers.  These  remittances  constituted  the  larg- 
est source  of  foreign  exchange  in  the  economy.  Based  on  an  as- 
sumption of  165,000  Somali  overseas  workers,  with  an  average  an- 
nual wage  of  US$6,150,  one-third  of  which  was  being  remitted, 
one  economist  has  calculated  that  more  than  US$330  million  was 
being  remitted  annually.  This  figure  represented  fifteen  times  the 


141 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

sum  of  Somalia-based  yearly  wages  and  nearly  40  percent  of  total 
GNP,  including  remittances.  The  official  remittance  figure  was 
US$30  million,  the  amount  channeled  through  banks.  Most  un- 
official remittances — in  the  form  of  foreign  exchange  and  house- 
hold goods  and  appliances  sent  home  from  abroad — went  to  urban 
traders.  This  fact  explains  the  apparent  abundance  of  supplies  in 
Somali  cities,  which,  based  on  the  foreign  exchange  estimates  from 
official  sources,  would  not  have  been  possible.  A  large  portion  of 
the  remittances  went  to  supply  arms  to  the  rural  guerrillas  who 
toppled  the  government  in  January  1991  (see  Sources  of  Opposi- 
tion, ch.  5). 

Export  of  Livestock 

As  the  macroeconomic  data  made  clear,  Somalia  was  primarily 
an  exporter  of  livestock  to  the  Arab  states.  The  macroeconomic 
data  did  not  make  clear  the  proportions  in  which  the  foreign  ex- 
change earnings  from  livestock  exports  went  to  the  government, 
based  on  the  official  exchange  rate  of  those  recorded  sales,  and  to 
the  traders  and  herders  themselves,  based  on  the  difference  between 
the  official  and  informal  exchange  rates  plus  all  revenues  from  un- 
officially recorded  sales.  A  system  known  as  franco  valuta  (see  Glos- 
sary) enabled  livestock  middlemen  to  hoard  a  considerable  foreign 
exchange  surplus.  In  the  livestock  export  sector,  traders  had  to  give 
the  government  only  40  percent  of  their  foreign  exchange  earn- 
ings; the  traders  could  import  anything  they  wished  with  the  re- 
maining foreign  exchange.  Thus,  imports  were  substantial  amid 
data  of  collapse.  One  needed  only  to  be  connected  to  a  trading  fam- 
ily to  enjoy  massive  increases  in  consumption  during  the  1980s. 
In  the  livestock  export  system,  franco  valuta  was  officially  discon- 
tinued as  a  result  of  the  IMF  structural  adjustment  program,  but 
in  practice  franco  valuta  continued  to  be  observed. 

In  the  1970s,  northern  trading  families  used  their  profits  to  buy 
real  estate,  much  of  it  in  Mogadishu.  In  the  1980s,  they  helped 
subsidize  the  rebels  fighting  the  government  of  Siad  Barre. 

Rural  Subsistence  Sector 

Somalia's  rural  subsistence  sector  produced  sufficient  grain  and 
animal  products  (mostly  milk)  to  sustain  the  country's  growing 
population,  including  its  massive  refugee  population.  According 
to  economist  Vali  Jamal,  data  on  the  subsistence  sector  underesti- 
mated the  amount  of  milk  and  grain  produced.  The  official  1978 
estimate  of  milk  production  was  451.4  million  liters;  by  using  al- 
ternate data  (for  example,  statistics  on  lactating  animals  from  an 
anthropology  study,  consumption  surveys,  and  interviews  with 


142 


The  Economy 


nomads),  Jamal  estimated  2.92  billion  liters  of  production,  6.5  times 
the  official  estimate.  Taking  into  account  only  this  change  in  milk 
production  would  raise  GDP  by  68  percent,  making  Somalia  the 
forty-first  rather  than  the  eighth  poorest  country  in  the  world,  with 
an  average  annual  per  capita  income  of  US$406. 

Jamal' s  data  showed  a  58  percent  increase  in  grain  production 
between  1972-74  and  1984.  Production  of  sorghum  and  corn 
reached  a  high  of  an  estimated  260,000  tons  and  382,000  tons, 
respectively,  in  1985,  before  declining  in  the  period  1987-89.  Grain 
imports  increased  sixfold,  however,  between  the  early  1970s  and 
1985;  the  increase  was  largely  caused  by  the  refugee  influx  and 
the  added  imports  needed  to  fill  the  food  gap.  After  1980  food 
production  increased  but  imports  continued,  primarily  as  a  result 
of  food  aid.  Governments  did  not  cut  off  food  aid  although  the  need 
for  it  steadily  receded.  Despite  donor  objectives,  most  of  the  im- 
ports went  to  urban  shops  rather  than  rural  refugee  camps. 

Often  missed  by  macroeconomic  analyses  was  the  vibrant 
agropastoralist  sector  of  the  southern  interriverine  area.  Families 
mixed  pastoralism — the  raising  of  goats  and  sheep,  and  sometimes 
camels — with  grain  production.  The  family  unit  was  highly  versa- 
tile, and  the  division  of  labor  within  it  changed  depending  on  the 
season  and  the  amount  of  rainfall.  During  a  drought  when  wom- 
en were  obliged  to  trek  for  days  in  search  of  water,  men  tended 
the  household  and  crops.  When  water  was  abundant,  women  main- 
tained the  household,  and  the  men  concentrated  on  the  livestock. 

Trade  between  the  pastoralist  and  agropastoralist  sectors  has  been 
greater  than  standard  models  of  the  Somali  GNP  have  assumed. 
Agropastoralists  accumulated  small  grain  surpluses  in  the  1980s, 
and  bartered  this  grain  to  pastoralists  in  exchange  for  milk.  The 
agropastoralists  received  more  value  from  this  trade  than  by  sell- 
ing their  grain  directly  to  the  government  because  government 
prices  for  grain  were  lower  than  the  growers'  costs.  IMF  agree- 
ments with  the  government  repealed  price  limits  on  the  sale  of  grain; 
the  consequences  of  this  agreement  for  trade  between  pastoralists 
and  agropastoralists  had  not  been  reported  as  of  mid- 1992. 

One  of  the  great  agricultural  success  stories  of  privatization  caused 
great  embarrassment  to  the  IMF.  Qat  (also  spelled  "kat,"  Catha 
edulis)  is  a  mildly  stimulating  narcotic;  many  Somalis  chew  the  qat 
leaf  during  leisure  time.  Qat  is  grown  in  the  Ethiopian  highlands 
and  in  Kenya  and  is  transported  through  Somalia.  In  the  late  1960s, 
farmers  near  Hargeysa  began  growing  it.  During  the  drought  of 
the  1970s,  the  qat  plants  survived  and  their  cultivators  made  hand- 
some profits.  Investment  in  qat  plants  soared  in  the  1980s.  Sales 
of  qat  enabled  farmers  to  stay  ahead  of  inflation  during  a  time  when 


143 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

prices  for  other  crops  fell.  Many  farmers  used  their  profits  to  rent 
tractors  and  to  hire  day  laborers;  doing  so  enabled  them  to  increase 
food  production  while  continuing  to  grow  qat.  The  large  surplus 
income  going  to  qat  farmers  created  a  free  market  in  land,  despite 
national  laws  prohibiting  land  sales.  The  IMF  never  mentioned 
this  economic  success  as  part  of  the  positive  results  of  its  program. 
The  government  believed  that  the  production  of  qat  was  cutting 
into  grain  production;  the  data  of  political  scientist  Abdi  Ismail 
Samatar,  however,  indicates  that  farmers  producing  qat  grew  more 
grain  than  those  who  did  not  produce  qat.  The  government  also 
believed  that  qat  was  harmful  because  it  was  making  the  general 
population  drug-dependent.  The  Siad  Barre  regime  hence  banned 
qat  production,  and  in  1984  qat  fields  were  destroyed  by  govern- 
ment teams.  Nevertheless,  the  qat  story  of  the  1980s  demonstrat- 
ed the  vibrancy  of  the  Somali  economy  outside  the  regulatory 
regimes  of  the  government  and  the  IMF. 

Urban  Subsistence  and  Government  Employment 

The  Somali  government  and  its  officials  collected  grants  and 
bribes  from  foreign  governments  and  taxes  on  internal  trade  that 
provided  substantial  wealth  to  the  ruling  elite.  As  of  July  1991, 
domestic  trade  in  the  south  for  the  most  part  had  been  disrupted. 
Only  small  quantities  of  goods  such  as  fruit,  sugarcane,  and  char- 
coal moved  from  the  villages  to  the  towns,  in  return  for  cornmeal 
and,  since  1988,  guns  and  ammunition.  At  a  national  level,  armed 
trucks  traveled  from  Jilib,  on  the  Jubba  River,  or  Chisimayu,  to 
Mogadishu,  carrying  from  the  Jubba  River  area  agricultural 
products  such  as  mangoes  and  sesame  and  returning  with  corn, 
wheat,  refined  sugar,  and  diesel  fuel.  International  trade  by  sea 
was  at  a  virtual  standstill,  but  goods  were  smuggled  across  the  bor- 
der with  Kenya  in  return  for  qat  primarily.  In  the  north  at  the 
same  period,  the  anarchic  situation  since  1988  had  severely  cur- 
tailed agricultural  trade,  particularly  livestock  exports.  In  addition, 
those  farmers  in  areas  where  planting  was  potentially  feasible  in 
1991,  such  as  around  Erigavo  and  Boorama,  northwest  of  Har- 
geysa,  lacked  sorghum,  corn,  and  vegetable  seeds,  as  well  as  tools, 
and  were  hindered  by  the  presence  of  minefields  in  many  locations. 
Internationally,  goods  were  smuggled  across  the  Ethiopian  border, 
largely  in  exchange  for  qat. 

The  funds  collected  in  the  past  on  internal  trade  also  provided 
below-subsistence  wages  to  a  number  of  urban  Somalis  because  for 
much  of  the  1980s  the  government  served  as  the  employer  of  last 
resort  of  all  secondary- school  graduates.  Using  these  revenues,  the 
government  also  sustained  an  army  that  was  in  continual  warfare 


144 


Camel  caravan  transporting  goods  in  northern  Somalia 
between  Hargeysa  and  Berbera 
Truck  loaded  with  passengers  and  household  goods 
Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 


145 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

beginning  in  1977,  first  against  Ethiopia,  and  then  against  an  in- 
ternal guerrilla  movement. 

Largely  as  a  result  of  structural  adjustment  in  the  latter  half  of 
the  1980s,  government  employment  was  not  lucrative  at  face  value. 
A  family  of  six  needed  an  estimated  6,990  shillings  monthly  for 
food,  clothing,  rent,  fuel,  light,  and  water.  The  highest  civil  service 
salary  was  2,000  shillings  per  month,  of  which  525  shillings  was 
deducted  for  taxes  and  other  charges.  The  highest  take-home  pay, 
including  allowances,  in  government  was  about  2,875  shillings. 

Urban  wages  that  were  inadequate  to  address  basic  human  needs 
might  lead  an  analyst  to  expect  near- starvation  in  urban  Somalia. 
However,  a  1984-85  household  survey  in  Mogadishu  reported  that 
only  17  percent  of  the  city's  families  lived  below  the  poverty  thresh- 
old. A  November  1986  study  in  the  Waaberi  district  of  Mogadishu 
found  only  7  percent  had  incomes  below  the  poverty  line.  Infor- 
mal observations  of  urban  life  in  Somalia  reported  in  the  1980s 
concurred  that  the  population  appeared  well-fed. 

The  puzzle  of  low  government  wages  coupled  with  a  reasonable 
urban  standard  of  living  can  be  solved  by  examining  the  survival 
strategies  of  urban  families.  In  the  potential  urban  labor  force  of 
300,000  to  360,000  people,  there  were  only  90,282  wage  earners, 
which  suggested  that  government  employment  was  only  one  part 
of  a  family  survival  strategy.  Many  families  had  one  member  work- 
ing for  the  government,  not  so  much  for  the  salary,  but  for  the 
access  to  other  officials  that  enabled  the  family  to  engage  in  quasi- 
legal  trading  activities.  Remittances  from  overseas  prevented  star- 
vation for  some  families.  Many  urban  families  had  members  who 
were  livestock  traders  and  through  franco  valuta  had  access  to  for- 
eign exchange.  Many  government  workers  prospered  on  bribery 
from  the  profiteers  in  the  so-called  gray  economy.  Other  govern- 
ment workers  could  obtain  "letters  of  credit"  (the  right  to  draw 
funds  from  government-held  foreign  exchange  accounts)  allowing 
them  to  import  goods  for  sale  and  for  family  use.  Still  other  civil 
servants  moonlighted  for  international  agencies,  receiving  valua- 
ble foreign  currency  for  their  efforts.  These  strategies  were  excluded 
from  most  macroeconomic  assessments. 

Undeveloped  Sectors 

Plantation  Economy 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  plantation  economy  was  undeveloped, 
even  for  bananas,  which  remained  Somalia's  principal  cash  crop 
and  second  most  important  export,  after  livestock.  Because  of 
government  taxation  of  exports,  this  sector  had  been  in  decline  in 


146 


The  Economy 


the  early  1980s.  In  1983  the  government  National  Banana  Board 
formed  a  joint  venture  with  an  Italian  company  to  create  Somal- 
fruit.  The  higher  producer  prices,  increased  input  availability,  and 
improved  marketing  and  shipping  facilities  resulted  in  a  180  per- 
cent increase  in  banana  production  from  60,000  tons  in  1980  to 
108,000  tons  in  1987.  By  1986  banana  exports  accounted  for  13 
percent  of  total  exports,  up  from  just  over  1  percent  in  1982  (see 
Foreign  Trade,  this  ch.). 

Mining 

Somalia's  mineral  sector  was  of  minuscule  value  in  the  overall 
Somali  economy  (in  1988  it  represented  only  0.3  percent  of  GDP; 
see  table  7,  Appendix).  There  was  some  production  of  salt  with 
solar  evaporation  methods,  mining  of  meerschaum  (sepiolite)  in 
the  Galguduud  Region,  mining  of  limestone  for  cement  in  the  Ber- 
bera  and  Baardheere  areas,  and  partial  exploitation  of  some  of  the 
world's  largest  deposits  of  gyp  sum- anhydrite  near  Berbera,  and 
of  quartz  and  piezoquartz  (useful  for  electronics).  Somalia  also  has 
some  large  uranium  deposits  in  the  Galguduud  and  Bay  regions, 
and  in  1984  work  began  to  develop  them.  In  the  Bay  Region,  there 
are  also  large  iron  ore  deposits.  The  development  plan  in  1986 
reported  that  results  of  natural  gas  exploration  in  Afgooye  near 
Mogadishu  were  negative,  but  indications  of  favorable  oil  and  gas 
resources  in  the  country  persisted  (see  Energy,  this  ch.).  Results 
of  testing  for  gold  in  the  Ceelbuur  area  in  Galguduud  Region  and 
Arabsiyo  area  near  Hargeysa  had  not  been  published  as  of 
mid- 1992. 

Forestry 

Nearly  14  percent  of  Somalia's  land  area  was  covered  by  forest 
in  1991.  Frankincense  and  myrrh,  both  forest  products,  generat- 
ed some  foreign  exchange;  for  example,  in  1988  myrrh  exports  were 
valued  at  almost  253  million  shillings.  A  government  parastatal 
in  1991  no  longer  had  monopoly  rights  on  the  sale  of  frankincense 
and  myrrh,  but  data  on  sales  since  privatization  were  not  availa- 
ble. Savanna  trees  had  been  Somalia's  principal  source  of  fuel,  but 
desertification  had  rapidly  eroded  this  fuel  source,  especially  be- 
cause refugees  from  the  Ogaden  War  had  foraged  the  bush  in  the 
vicinity  of  refugee  camps  for  fuel.  The  government's  1988  develop- 
ment report  stated  that  its  sand  dune  stabilization  project  on  the 
southern  coast  remained  active:  265  hectares  of  a  planned  336  hect- 
ares had  been  treated.  Furthermore,  thirty-nine  range  reserve  sites 
and  thirty-six  forestry  plantation  sites  had  been  established.  For- 
estry amounted  to  about  6  percent  of  the  GDP. 


147 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 
Fishing 

In  part  because  Somalia  has  3,025  kilometers  of  coastline,  fish- 
ing was  a  sector  with  excellent  economic  potential.  Considerable 
attention  had  been  paid  to  this  sector,  especially  since  the  1974 
drought,  when  15,000  nomads  were  resettled  in  fishing  coopera- 
tives. Data  in  the  latter  half  of  the  1980s  showed  improvement  in 
the  fishing  industry.  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  estimates 
of  total  tons  of  fish  caught  and  processed  rose  from  16,900  in  1986 
to  18,200  in  1988,  an  increase  that  resulted  from  the  development 
of  a  national  fishing  fleet.  Yet  fishing  remained  a  largely  unexploited 
sector,  contributing  less  than  1  percent  of  GDP  in  1990. 

Manufacturing 

Manufacturing  achieved  some  success  in  the  early  1970s,  and 
was  primarily  based  on  processing  of  agricultural  products.  In  1986 
the  government  planned  to  bring  its  sugar-  and  milk-processing 
plants  up  to  full  production,  to  add  a  new  cement  factory  in  Ber- 
bera,  and  to  contract  with  an  Italian  firm  to  operate  its  urea  facto- 
ry, which  was  producing  at  less  than  30  percent  of  capacity.  In 
1989  a  hides-  and  skins-processing  plant  in  Mogadishu  was  com- 
pleted with  Italian  government  financing.  Despite  this  activity, 
manufacturing  did  not  respond  to  IMF  incentives  as  well  as  agricul- 
ture had.  In  1988  there  was  a  decline  of  4.9  percent  in  produc- 
tion. The  decline  followed  a  5  percent  increase  in  1987.  The 
government  blamed  the  decline  on  shortages  of  inputs  and  spare 
parts  and  on  poor  management.  By  1990  manufacturing  had  all 
but  ceased  to  play  a  significant  role  in  the  economy,  contributing 
only  about  5  percent  of  GDP. 

Foreign  Trade 

Somalia's  major  exports  consisted  of  agricultural  raw  materials 
and  food  products.  Livestock  was  the  principal  export,  with  sheep 
and  goats  representing  the  leading  categories,  followed  by  cattle 
and  camels.  Banana  exports  rose  sharply  in  the  1980s  and  by  1986 
occupied  second  place,  followed  in  descending  order  by  hides  and 
skins,  fish  and  fish  products,  and  myrrh  (see  table  8,  Appendix). 

The  largest  single  import  was  food,  with  1986  food  imports 
reflecting  the  effects  of  the  drought  being  experienced  in  the  area 
(see  table  9,  Appendix).  Transportation  equipment  was  in  second 
place  among  imports,  followed  by  nonelectrical  machinery,  mineral 
fuels,  cement  and  building  materials,  and  iron  and  steel. 

In  1990  Italy  was  the  leading  importer  of  Somali  goods,  having 
narrowly  replaced  Saudi  Arabia.  Other  Arab  states,  such  as  Yemen 


148 


The  Economy 


and  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  were  also  important  customers  for 
Somali  products.  In  1990  Italy  was  the  primary  country  of  origin 
for  goods  imported  into  Somalia,  with  other  nations  such  as  Nor- 
way, Bahrain,  and  Britain  distant  sources  of  imports.  Somalia  con- 
sistently experienced  an  overall  negative  trade  balance,  which 
contributed  to  its  balance  of  payments  deficit  (see  table  10,  Ap- 
pendix). 

In  summary,  with  the  1991  overthrow  of  Siad  Barre's  govern- 
ment, Somalia  faced  a  new  era.  Past  economic  experience  had 
taught  valuable  lessons.  First,  the  Somali  people  have  for  millen- 
nia been  able  to  survive  and  even  prosper  in  a  harsh  environment, 
whether  it  be  natural  or  political.  Second,  grand  economic  strate- 
gies, whether  from  Benito  Mussolini,  Karl  Marx,  or  the  IMF,  have 
not  provided  Somalia  with  a  means  to  live  beyond  the  subsistence 
level.  Third,  the  handful  of  successful  projects  in  the  colonial,  post- 
independence,  socialist,  and  IMF-led  economies  suggest  that  a  non- 
doctrinaire  combination  of  approaches  could  promote  a  richer 
economy. 

*     *  * 

Sources  on  the  Somali  economy  remain  scarce.  The  most  per- 
ceptive study  of  the  economy  is  a  journal  article  by  Vali  Jamal, 
"Somalia:  Understanding  an  Unconventional  Economy."  Jamal 
has  worked  in  Somalia  as  part  of  an  International  Labour  Organi- 
sation team  that  published  Economic  Transformation  in  a  Socialist  Frame- 
work. Two  books  written  in  the  1 980s  provide  excellent  background 
information  and  interpretation.  Abdi  Ismail  Samatar's  The  State 
and  Rural  Transformation  in  Northern  Somalia,  1884-1986  focuses  on 
government  economic  policy,  largely  as  it  has  affected  the  north- 
ern region.  Garth  Massey's  Subsistence  and  Change:  Lessons  of 
Agropastoralism  in  Somalia  provides  an  insightful  and  carefully 
researched  examination  of  the  agropastoral  economy  in  the  inter- 
riverine  area.  David  Laitin  and  Said  Samatar  have  written  a  chapter 
on  the  economy  in  their  text,  Somalia:  Nation  in  Search  of  a  State,  which 
forms  the  basis  of  the  analysis  in  this  chapter.  Statistical  data  are 
available  in  various  publications  of  the  Ministry  of  National  Plan- 
ning and  Jubba  Valley  Development:  Somalia  in  Figures;  Annual  De- 
velopment Plan,  1986;  National  Accounts  Aggregates,  1977-1988;  and 
Performance  of  the  Somali  Economy,  1988.  Further  data  for  this  chap- 
ter have  been  culled  from  Ravi  Gulhati's  The  Making  of  Economic 
Policy  in  Africa  and  the  World  Bank's  World  Development  Report.  (For 
further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


149 


Statue  of  Sayyid  Mahammad  Abdille  Hasan,  the  national  hero  of 
Somalia,  in  Mogadishu 


IN  JANUARY  1991,  a  bloody  rebellion  that  had  begun  in  1988 
finally  succeeded  in  ending  the  twenty-one-year  authoritarian  re- 
gime of  President  Mahammad  Siad  Barre.  The  civil  war  had  taken 
more  than  50,000  civilian  lives  and  had  left  the  capital,  Mogadishu, 
in  shambles.  Many  other  cities  and  towns  also  were  in  ruins,  and 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  Somalis  had  fled  to  neighboring  coun- 
tries as  refugees. 

Although  the  major  clans  had  been  united  in  their  opposition 
to  Siad  Barre,  their  leaders  had  no  common  political  vision  of  Soma- 
lia's future.  Consequently,  civil  strife  continued  at  a  reduced  level 
after  Siad  Barre  was  deposed.  The  dominant  faction  in  the  north, 
the  Somali  National  Movement  (SNM),  refused  to  accept  the 
legitimacy  of  the  provisional  government  established  by  the  Unit- 
ed Somali  Congress  (USC).  Responding  to  widespread  popular 
resentment  of  the  central  government,  in  June  1991  the  SNM 
declared  an  independent  Republic  of  Somaliland  in  the  region  that 
had  constituted  the  British  Somaliland  before  independence  and 
unification  with  the  former  colony  of  Italian  Somaliland  in  1960. 

The  legacy  Siad  Barre  left  of  a  country  devastated  by  civil  war 
and  riven  by  intense  clan  rivalries  contrasted  starkly  with  the  fu- 
ture he  had  envisaged  for  Somalia  when  he  took  power  in  a  mili- 
tary coup  d'etat  in  October  1969.  Siad  Barre,  at  the  time  a  major 
general  and  commander  of  the  army,  and  his  fellow  officers  over- 
threw an  elected  civilian  government  that  had  become  widely  per- 
ceived as  corrupt  and  incompetent.  Siad  Barre  was  determined  to 
implement  policies  to  benefit  the  country  economically  and  social- 
ly and  to  diminish  the  political  influence  of  the  clans.  During  his 
regime's  early  years,  Somalia  experienced  considerable  economic 
development,  and  efforts  were  made  to  replace  clan  loyalty  with 
national  pride. 

However,  Siad  Barre  proved  susceptible  to  a  cult  of  personality 
and  over  the  years  grew  increasingly  intolerant  of  criticism.  Fol- 
lowing his  army's  disastrous  1978  defeat  in  Ethiopia,  Siad  Barre' s 
rule  became  more  authoritarian  and  arbitrary,  which  only  caused 
opposition  to  his  regime  to  increase.  Forsaking  appeals  to  nation- 
alism, Siad  Barre  tried  to  maintain  control  by  exploiting  historical 
clan  animosities  and  by  relying  more  and  more  on  the  loyalty  of 
his  own  family  and  clan.  By  the  mid-1980s,  the  opposition  to  Siad 
Barre  had  developed  into  several  organized  movements  determined 
to  overthrow  his  regime  by  force.  Angered  by  what  he  perceived 


153 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

as  local  support  of  the  opposition,  particularly  in  the  north,  Siad 
Barre  ordered  the  machine-gunning  of  livestock  herds  and  the 
poisoning  of  wells  in  disaffected  rural  areas,  as  well  as  the  in- 
discriminate bombing  of  cities.  In  the  most  notorious  of  these  air 
attacks,  the  north's  administrative  center  and  largest  city,  Har- 
geysa,  was  virtually  leveled  in  1988. 

Siad  Barre' s  tactics  inflamed  popular  anger  and  greatly  strength- 
ened the  appeal  of  the  various  guerrilla  groups.  Nevertheless,  the 
opposition's  ultimate  triumph  caught  the  rebels  themselves  by  sur- 
prise. Their  only  common  goal,  to  be  rid  of  Siad  Barre,  was 
achieved  by  USC  forces  essentially  without  assistance  from  the  other 
rebel  groups.  USC  fighters  had  entered  Mogadishu  clandestinely 
at  the  end  of  December  1990  to  assist  clan  members  who  had  formed 
popular  committees  of  self-defense  to  protect  themselves  from  at- 
tacks by  a  rival  clan  that  supported  Siad  Barre.  The  presence  of 
the  USC  guerrillas  prompted  the  intervention  of  the  Red  Berets 
(Duub  Cas),  an  elite  military  unit  whose  members  acted  as 
bodyguards  for  Siad  Barre,  and  which  was  commanded  by  Siad 
Barre 's  eldest  son.  The  fighting  quickly  escalated,  forcing  the  USC 
to  send  more  of  its  forces  into  the  city.  The  USC  guerrillas  and 
the  Red  Berets  battled  in  the  streets  of  the  capital  for  four  weeks. 
After  the  USC  defeated  Siad  Barre' s  forces,  the  other  rebel  move- 
ments declined  to  cooperate  with  it.  Each  of  the  several  opposition 
groups  drew  its  primary  support  from  a  particular  clan-family  (see 
Glossary),  and  Siad  Barre 's  sudden  removal  from  the  political  scene 
opened  the  way  for  traditional  clan  suspicions  to  reassert  them- 
selves. The  reemergence  of  clan  politics  cast  doubt  on  the  prospects 
for  Somalia's  stability  and  unity. 

By  September  1991,  intense  rivalry  among  leaders  of  the  USC- 
dominated  interim  government  had  degenerated  into  street  fight- 
ing within  the  Mogadishu  area.  Because  the  different  clans  resort- 
ed to  the  use  of  armed  force  to  buttress  their  claims  for  political 
power,  government  and  civil  society  disintegrated,  and  essential 
services  such  as  food  distribution  collapsed.  Nature  compounded 
the  political  disaster  with  a  prolonged  drought.  In  1992  severe  fam- 
ine affected  much  of  southern  Somalia.  International  relief  agen- 
cies mounted  a  food  and  medical  aid  campaign,  but  an  estimated 
80  percent  of  food  shipments  were  looted  by  armed  groups  affiliated 
with  various  clans.  The  worsening  situation  prompted  the  United 
Nations  (UN)  to  intervene.  On  April  22,  1992,  the  UN  proposed 
to  send  a  550-member  mission  to  Somalia;  and  on  April  24,  in  UN 
Resolution  751,  the  Security  Council  voted  to  send  fifty  UN  ob- 
servers to  monitor  the  cease-fire  in  Mogadishu. 


154 


Government  and  Politics 


Government  Structure 

Following  its  defeat  of  Siad  Barre,  the  Executive  Committee  of 
the  USC  announced  the  formation  of  an  interim  provisional  govern- 
ment, even  though  it  did  not  exercise  effective  authority  over  the 
entire  country.  The  USC  chose  one  of  its  own  members,  Ali  Mahdi 
Mahammad  (b.  1939),  as  provisional  president.  The  president 
served  as  head  of  state,  but  the  duties  and  responsibilities  of  the 
office  were  not  defined.  For  the  most  part,  the  provisional  presi- 
dent retained  the  same  powers  that  had  been  stipulated  in  the  con- 
stitution of  1979.  This  included  the  authority  to  appoint  a  prime 
minister,  and  subsequendy  Mahammad  named  Umar  Arteh  Ghalib 
to  that  position  on  an  interim  basis.  Ghalib 's  cabinet,  called  the 
Provisional  Government  of  National  Unity,  initially  consisted  of 
twenty-seven  full  ministers  and  eight  deputy  ministers.  The  minis- 
terial portfolios  included  agriculture,  commerce,  culture  and  higher 
education,  defense,  exports,  finance,  fisheries,  health,  industry, 
information,  interior,  justice,  labor  and  social  affairs,  livestock  and 
forestry,  petroleum  and  minerals,  posts  and  telecommunications, 
public  works  and  housing,  reconstruction  and  settlement,  trans- 
portation, tourism,  and  youth. 

Although  the  president  announced  that  elections  for  a  perma- 
nent government  would  be  held  as  soon  as  security  had  been  reestab- 
lished, rivalries  within  the  USC,  as  well  as  opposition  to  the  interim 
government  in  other  parts  of  the  country,  made  the  question  of 
elections  a  moot  point.  Mahammad 's  most  serious  challenger  was 
General  Mahammad  Faarah  Aidid,  leader  of  a  USC  faction  that 
supported  cooperation  with  the  SNM.  Initially,  Aidid  contested 
the  authority  of  the  Mogadishu-based  USC  Executive  Committee 
to  form  an  interim  government  without  consultation  with  other  po- 
litical groups  that  had  opposed  the  Siad  Barre  regime.  Relations 
between  the  Mahammad  and  Aidid  wings  of  the  USC  continued 
to  deteriorate  throughout  the  spring  and  summer  of  1991 .  By  Sep- 
tember, Aidid  had  established  his  own  rival  government  in  the 
southern  part  of  the  capital.  A  series  of  clashes  between  forces  loy- 
al to  Aidid  and  those  loyal  to  Mahammad  compelled  the  latter  to 
retreat  to  northern  Mogadishu. 

Mahammad  was  a  member  of  the  Abgaal  clan  of  the  Hawiye 
clan-family,  whereas  Aidid  was  a  member  of  that  same  clan-family's 
Habar  Gidir  clan.  The  Abgaal  clan  comprised  nine  subclans,  several 
of  which  traditionally  have  been  dominant  in  the  Mogadishu  area. 
Because  Abgaal  leaders  had  not  become  involved  in  the  struggle 
against  Siad  Barre  until  1989,  other  clans  tended  to  view  them  as 
upstarts  trying  to  usurp  control  of  the  opposition  movement.  This 


155 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

perception  was  especially  strong  among  the  Habar  Gidir  clan,  whose 
five  subclans  lived  predominantly  in  central  Somalia.  Some  Habar 
Gidir  leaders  had  joined  the  SNM  as  early  as  1984,  and  they  had 
resisted  efforts  to  create  a  separate  Hawiye  force — the  USC — between 
1987  and  1989.  Once  the  USC  was  established,  Aidid  emerged  as 
leader  of  the  mainly  Habar  Gidir  faction  that  maintained  an  affili- 
ation with  the  SNM.  The  Abgaal  and  Habar  Gidir  wings  of  the 
USC  were  clearly  distinct  by  November  1990  when  Aidid,  on  be- 
half of  this  group,  signed  an  agreement  with  the  SNM  and  the 
Somali  Patriotic  Movement  (SPM)  to  unify  military  operations. 

Despite  their  political  differences,  both  Mahammad  and  Aidid 
had  long  histories  of  opposition  to  Siad  Barre.  A  former  teacher 
and  civil  servant,  Mahammad  had  been  elected  to  the  123-member 
National  Assembly  of  the  Republic  in  the  March  1969  parliamen- 
tary elections.  Following  the  military  coup  in  October  1969,  Ma- 
hammad was  arrested  along  with  several  other  civilian  politicians. 
He  was  released  after  several  years  in  prison  and  subsequently  be- 
came a  successful  Mogadishu  entrepreneur.  During  the  1980s,  he 
served  as  director  of  a  local  UN  office.  Eventually  Mahammad  used 
his  wealth  to  provide  crucial  financial  support  to  the  USC  guerril- 
las. In  May  1990,  he  was  one  of  1 14  prominent  citizens  who  signed 
a  public  manifesto  calling  on  the  government  to  resign  and  request- 
ing that  Siad  Barre  introduce  democratic  reforms.  When  Siad  Barre 
began  arresting  signatories  to  the  manifesto,  Mahammad  fled  to 
exile  in  Italy,  where  he  worked  in  the  USC's  Rome  office. 

The  appointment  of  Ghalib  as  provisional  prime  minister  demon- 
strated the  sensitivity  of  Mahammad  and  other  USC  leaders  to  the 
role  of  clans  in  the  country's  politics.  Ghalib  belonged  to  the  im- 
portant Isaaq  clan-family  of  northern  Somalia.  Although  the  main 
opposition  group  in  the  north,  the  SNM,  was  closely  identified  with 
the  Isaaq,  Ghalib  was  not  an  SNM  member.  Rather,  his  political 
career  had  associated  him  with  national  government.  From  1969 
to  1976,  Ghalib  had  served  as  Siad  Barre's  first  foreign  minister. 
He  was  dismissed  after  disagreeing  with  Siad  Barre's  increasingly 
overt  policy  of  supporting  the  ethnic  Somali  insurrection  in  Ethio- 
pia's Ogaden  (Ogaadeen)  region.  Ghalib  was  subsequently  arrested, 
and  in  1989,  after  spending  seven  years  in  prison  without  charges, 
he  was  tried  for  treason  and  sentenced  to  death.  Following  pro- 
tests from  various  foreign  governments,  Siad  Barre  commuted 
Ghalib 's  sentence  but  kept  him  under  house  arrest.  In  late  Janu- 
ary 1991,  as  his  regime  was  collapsing,  Siad  Barre  asked  Ghalib 
to  form  a  new  government  that  would  negotiate  with  the  rebels, 
but  the  USC  military  successes  forced  Siad  Barre's  flight  from  the 
capital  before  any  transfer  of  power  could  be  completed. 


156 


Poster  in  Mogadishu  of  Mahammad  Siad  Barre,  a  revolutionary  leader  of 

Somalia,  deposed  in  1991 
Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 

Constitution 

The  provisional  government  called  for  a  new  constitution  to 
replace  the  1979  document  that  had  been  the  law  of  the  land  at 
the  time  of  Siad  Barre 's  overthrow.  The  provisional  government 
created  a  Ministry  of  Constitutional  Affairs,  which  was  charged 
with  planning  for  a  constitutional  convention  and  revising  an  Oc- 
tober 1990  draft  constitution  that  Siad  Barre  had  proposed  in  an 
unsuccessful  effort  to  stem  opposition  to  his  rule.  As  of  May  1992, 
however,  the  lack  of  consensus  among  the  USC -dominated  govern- 
ment and  the  various  guerrilla  groups  that  controlled  more  than 
half  of  the  nation  had  prevented  completion  of  a  final  version  of 
the  new  constitution.  Consequently,  those  provisions  of  the  con- 
stitution of  1979  that  had  not  been  specifically  voided  by  the  in- 
terim government  remained  in  force. 

Like  its  1984  amendments,  the  constitution  of  1979  had  been 
approved  in  a  popular  referendum.  Somalia  had  universal  suffrage 
for  persons  over  eighteen  years  of  age,  but  women  did  not  play 
a  significant  role  in  politics  (see  From  Independence  to  Revolu- 
tion, ch.  1).  The  constitution  of  1979  resembled  the  constitution 
of  1961 ,  also  approved  in  a  nationwide  referendum  after  the  former 


157 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Italian  and  British  colonies  had  been  unified  as  independent  Soma- 
lia. The  main  difference  between  the  two  documents  concerned 
executive  power.  The  constitution  of  1961  had  provided  for  a 
parliamentary  democracy,  with  the  prime  minister  and  Council 
of  Ministers  (cabinet)  being  drawn  from  the  membership  of  the 
legislature.  The  legislature  also  elected  the  head  of  state,  or  presi- 
dent of  the  republic.  The  constitution  of  1979  provided  for  a 
presidential  system  under  which  the  president  served  as  both  head 
of  state  and  head  of  government.  As  head  of  government,  the  presi- 
dent selected  the  members  of  the  Council  of  Ministers,  which  he 
chaired.  The  constitution  of  1979  initially  called  for  the  president 
to  be  elected  to  a  six-year,  renewable  term  of  office  by  a  two-thirds 
majority  vote  of  the  legislature.  Constitutional  amendments  enacted 
in  1984  provided  for  direct  popular  election  of  the  president  to  a 
seven-year  term.  The  first  presidential  election  was  held  in  1986. 
Siad  Barre,  the  sole  candidate,  received  99.9  percent  of  the  votes. 

Both  the  1961  and  1979  constitutions  granted  broad  powers  to 
the  president.  The  constitution  of  1979  authorized  the  president 
to  conduct  foreign  affairs,  declare  war,  invoke  emergency  powers, 
serve  as  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces,  and  appoint  one 
or  more  vice  presidents,  the  president  of  the  Supreme  Court,  up 
to  six  members  of  the  national  legislature,  and  the  members  of  the 
Council  of  Ministers.  Both  constitutions  also  provided  for  a 
unicameral  legislature  subject  to  stand  for  election  at  least  once 
every  five  years;  the  president  could  dissolve  the  legislature  earlier. 

Legislature 

Although  the  Siad  Barre  government  suspended  the  National 
Assembly  following  the  1969  coup,  a  decade  later  it  created  a  new 
single-chamber  legislature,  the  People's  Assembly.  The  constitu- 
tion of  1979  stipulated  that  the  People's  Assembly  have  177  mem- 
bers, including  6  members  appointed  by  the  president  and  171 
chosen  by  popular  election.  By  contrast,  the  precoup  National  As- 
sembly had  only  123  members.  Members  of  the  People's  Assem- 
bly served  a  five-year  term.  Two  such  assemblies  were  elected,  one 
in  1979  and  another  in  1984.  The  elections  scheduled  for  1989  were 
postponed  as  a  result  of  the  civil  strife  that  by  then  had  engulfed 
most  of  the  country. 

Critics  and  opponents  of  the  regime  were  not  permitted  to  run 
in  either  the  1979  or  the  1984  election.  Instead,  the  government 
drew  up  lists  of  candidates,  all  of  whom  were  members  of  the  only 
legally  permitted  party  (the  Somali  Revolutionary  Socialist  Party — 
SRSP),  and  submitted  the  entire  lists  for  voter  approval.  In  both 
instances,  the  government  announced  that  more  than  99  percent 


158 


Government  and  Politics 


of  the  electorate  had  approved  the  official  lists.  The  People's  As- 
sembly also  did  not  truly  debate  any  legislation.  It  met  for  several 
days  each  year  and  ratified  whatever  laws  the  executive  had  decided 
to  submit  for  its  "approval." 

The  People's  Assembly  was  not  in  session  when  the  Siad  Barre 
government  was  toppled.  The  provisional  government  announced 
its  intention  to  hold  elections  for  a  new  legislature,  but  as  of 
mid- 1992  the  continuing  political  disturbances  in  the  country  had 
prevented  the  formulation  of  definite  plans  for  such  elections. 

Local  Government 

One  of  the  consequences  of  the  civil  strife  that  began  in  1988 
was  the  alienation  of  many  local  governments  from  the  effective 
authority  of  Mogadishu.  Whereas  the  domestic  situation  as  of  May 
1992  remained  unstable,  the  trend  appeared  to  be  toward  a  de- 
centralized system  of  local  government  similar  to  that  existing  pri- 
or to  the  1969  coup.  The  constitution  of  1961  had  provided  for 
the  decentralization  of  administrative  functions  wherever  feasible, 
and  throughout  the  country  elected  councils  had  been  responsible 
for  municipal  and  district  government.  However,  direct  supervi- 
sion of  local  government  affairs  by  central  authorities  also  was  part 
of  Somalia's  recent  history,  and  a  return  to  a  centralized  system 
could  not  be  ruled  out.  Indeed,  the  local  government  structures 
that  existed  in  1992  were  the  same  ones  that  had  been  established 
during  Siad  Barre 's  dictatorship. 

One  of  Siad  Barre 's  first  decrees  following  the  1969  military  coup 
dissolved  all  the  elected  municipal  and  district  councils.  This  edict 
was  followed  by  acts  that  eventually  reorganized  local  government 
into  sixteen  regions,  each  containing  three  to  six  districts,  with  the 
exception  of  the  capital  region  (Banaadir),  which  was  segmented 
into  fifteen  districts.  Of  the  total  eighty-four  districts,  some  were 
totally  urban,  while  others  included  both  urban  and  rural  com- 
munities. Local  government  authority  was  vested  in  regional  and 
district  councils,  the  members  of  which  were  appointed  by  the  cen- 
tral government.  A  1979  law  authorized  district  council  elections, 
but  reserved  to  the  government  the  right  to  approve  candidates 
before  their  names  were  submitted  to  voters.  Permanent  settlements 
in  rural  areas  had  elected  village  councils,  although  all  candidates 
had  to  be  approved  by  government  officials  at  the  district  level. 

The  Ministry  of  Local  Government  and  Rural  Development  ex- 
ercised authority  over  the  structure  of  local  government.  Through- 
out Siad  Barre 's  twenty-one-year  rule,  a  high-ranking  military 
officer  usually  headed  this  ministry.  Military  officers  also  were  ap- 
pointed as  chairmen  of  the  regional  councils.  Most  members  of 


159 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

the  regional  and  district  councils  were  drawn  from  the  army,  the 
police,  and  security  personnel.  Such  practices  ensured  that  those 
in  charge  of  carrying  out  administrative  functions  at  the  local  lev- 
el were  directly  responsible  to  Mogadishu. 

All  levels  of  local  government  were  staffed  by  personnel  of  the 
national  civil  service  who  had  been  assigned  to  their  posts  by  the 
central  authorities.  Local  councils  were  permitted  to  plan  local 
projects,  impose  local  taxes,  and  borrow  funds  (with  prior  ministeri- 
al approval)  for  demonstrably  productive  development  projects. 

Legal  System 

At  independence,  Somalia  had  four  distinct  legal  traditions:  En- 
glish common  law,  Italian  law,  Islamic  sharia  or  religious  law,  and 
Somali  customary  law  (traditional  rules  and  sanctions).  The 
challenge  after  1960  was  to  meld  this  diverse  legal  inheritance  into 
one  system.  During  the  1960s,  a  uniform  penal  code,  a  code  of 
criminal  court  procedures,  and  a  standardized  judicial  organiza- 
tion were  introduced.  The  Italian  system  of  basing  judicial  deci- 
sions on  the  application  and  interpretation  of  the  legal  code  was 
retained.  The  courts  were  enjoined,  however,  to  apply  English  com- 
mon law  and  doctrines  of  equity  in  matters  not  governed  by  legis- 
lation. 

In  Italian  Somaliland,  observance  of  the  sharia  had  been  more 
common  than  in  British  Somaliland,  where  the  application  of  Is- 
lamic law  had  been  limited  to  cases  pertaining  to  marriage,  divorce, 
family  disputes,  and  inheritance.  Qadis  (Muslim  judges)  in  Brit- 
ish Somaliland  also  adjudicated  customary  law  in  cases  such  as  land 
tenure  disputes  and  disagreements  over  the  payment  of  diya  (see 
Glossary)  or  blood  compensation.  In  Italian  Somaliland,  however, 
the  sharia  courts  had  also  settled  civil  and  minor  penal  matters, 
and  Muslim  plaintiffs  had  a  choice  of  appearing  before  a  secular 
judge  or  a  qadi.  After  independence  the  differences  between  the 
two  regions  were  resolved  by  making  the  sharia  applicable  in  all 
civil  matters  if  the  dispute  arose  under  that  law.  Somali  customary 
law  was  retained  for  optional  application  in  such  matters  as  land 
tenure,  water  and  grazing  rights,  and  the  payment  of  diya. 

The  military  junta  suspended  the  constitution  of  1961  when  it 
took  power  in  1969,  but  it  initially  respected  other  sources  of  law. 
In  1973  the  Siad  Barre  regime  introduced  a  unified  civil  code.  Its 
provisions  pertaining  to  inheritance,  personal  contracts,  and  water 
and  grazing  rights  sharply  curtailed  both  the  sharia  and  Somali 
customary  law.  Siad  Barre 's  determination  to  limit  the  influence 
of  the  country's  clans  was  reflected  in  sections  of  the  code  that 


160 


Government  and  Politics 


abolished  traditional  clan  and  lineage  rights  over  land,  water 
resources,  and  grazing.  In  addition,  the  new  civil  code  restricted 
the  payment  of  diya  as  compensation  for  death  or  injury  to  the  vic- 
tim or  close  relatives  rather  than  to  an  entire  dzjxz-paying  group. 
A  subsequent  amendment  prohibited  the  payment  of  diya  entirely. 

The  attorney  general,  who  was  appointed  by  the  minister  of 
justice,  was  responsible  for  the  observance  of  the  law  and  prosecu- 
tion of  criminal  matters.  The  attorney  general  had  ten  deputies 
in  the  capital  and  several  other  deputies  in  the  rest  of  the  country. 
Outside  of  Mogadishu,  the  deputies  of  the  attorney  general  had 
their  offices  at  the  regional  and  district  courts. 

Courts 

The  constitution  of  1961  had  provided  for  a  unified  judiciary 
independent  of  the  executive  and  the  legislature.  A  1962  law  in- 
tegrated the  courts  of  northern  and  southern  Somalia  into  a  four- 
tiered  system:  the  Supreme  Court,  courts  of  appeal,  regional  courts, 
and  district  courts.  Sharia  courts  were  discontinued  although  judges 
were  expected  to  take  the  sharia  into  consideration  when  making 
decisions.  The  Siad  Barre  government  did  not  fundamentally  alter 
this  structure;  nor  had  the  provisional  government  made  any  sig- 
nificant changes  as  of  May  1992. 

At  the  lowest  level  of  the  Somali  judicial  system  were  the  eighty- 
four  district  courts,  each  of  which  consisted  of  civil  and  criminal 
divisions.  The  civil  division  of  the  district  court  had  jurisdiction 
over  matters  requiring  the  application  of  the  sharia,  or  customary 
law,  and  suits  involving  claims  of  up  to  3,000  Somali  shillings  (for 
value  of  the  shilling,  see  Glossary).  The  criminal  division  of  the 
district  court  had  jurisdiction  over  offenses  punishable  by  fines  or 
prison  sentences  of  less  than  three  years. 

There  were  eight  regional  courts,  each  consisting  of  three  divi- 
sions. The  ordinary  division  had  jurisdiction  over  penal  and  civil 
cases  considered  too  serious  to  be  heard  by  the  district  courts.  The 
assize  division  considered  only  major  criminal  cases,  that  is,  those 
concerning  crimes  punishable  by  more  than  ten  years'  imprison- 
ment. A  third  division  handled  cases  pertaining  to  labor  legisla- 
tion. In  both  the  district  and  regional  courts,  a  single  magistrate, 
assisted  by  two  laymen,  heard  cases,  decided  questions  of  fact,  and 
voted  on  the  guilt  or  innocence  of  the  accused. 

Somalia's  next-highest  tier  of  courts  consisted  of  the  two  courts 
of  appeal.  The  court  of  appeals  for  the  southern  region  sat  at 
Mogadishu,  and  the  northern  region's  court  of  appeals  sat  at  Har- 
geysa.  Each  court  of  appeal  had  two  divisions.  The  ordinary  divi- 
sion heard  appeals  of  district  court  decisions  and  of  decisions  of 


161 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

the  ordinary  division  of  the  regional  courts,  whereas  the  assize  di- 
vision was  only  for  appeals  from  the  regional  assize  courts.  A  sin- 
gle judge  presided  over  cases  in  both  divisions.  Two  laymen  assisted 
the  judge  in  the  ordinary  division,  and  four  laymen  assisted  the 
judge  in  the  assize  division.  The  senior  judges  of  the  courts  of  ap- 
peal, who  were  called  presidents,  administered  all  the  courts  in  their 
respective  regions. 

The  Supreme  Court,  which  sat  at  Mogadishu,  had  ultimate 
authority  for  the  uniform  interpretation  of  the  law.  It  heard  ap- 
peals of  decisions  and  judgments  of  the  lower  courts  and  of  actions 
taken  by  public  attorneys,  and  settled  questions  of  court  jurisdic- 
tion. The  Supreme  Court  was  composed  of  a  chief  justice,  who 
was  referred  to  as  the  president,  a  vice  president,  nine  surrogate 
justices,  and  four  laymen.  The  president,  two  other  judges,  and 
four  laymen  constituted  a  full  panel  for  plenary  sessions  of  the 
Supreme  Court.  In  ordinary  sessions,  one  judge  presided  with  the 
assistance  of  two  other  judges  and  two  laymen.  The  president  of 
the  Supreme  Court  decided  whether  a  case  was  to  be  handled  in 
plenary  or  ordinary  session,  on  the  basis  of  the  importance  of  the 
matter  being  considered. 

Although  the  military  government  did  not  change  the  basic  struc- 
ture of  the  court  system,  it  did  introduce  a  major  new  institution, 
the  National  Security  Courts  (NSCs),  which  operated  outside  the 
ordinary  legal  system  and  under  the  direct  control  of  the  execu- 
tive. These  courts,  which  sat  at  Mogadishu  and  the  regional  capi- 
tals, had  jurisdiction  over  serious  offenses  defined  by  the 
government  as  affecting  the  security  of  the  state,  including  offenses 
against  public  order  and  crimes  by  government  officials.  The  NSC 
heard  a  broad  range  of  cases,  passing  sentences  for  embezzlement 
by  public  officials,  murder,  political  activities  against  the  state,  and 
thefts  of  government  food  stocks.  A  senior  military  officer  was  presi- 
dent of  each  NSC.  He  was  assisted  by  two  other  judges,  usually 
also  military  officers.  A  special  military  attorney  general  prosecuted 
cases  brought  before  the  NSC.  No  other  court,  not  even  the 
Supreme  Court,  could  review  NSC  sentences.  Appeals  of  NSC  ver- 
dicts could  be  taken  only  to  the  president  of  the  republic.  Oppo- 
nents of  the  Siad  Barre  regime  accused  the  NSC  of  sentencing 
hundreds  of  people  to  death  for  political  reasons.  In  October  1990, 
Siad  Barre  announced  the  abolition  of  the  widely  feared  and  de- 
tested courts;  as  of  May  1992,  the  NSCs  had  not  been  reinstituted 
by  the  provisional  government. 

Before  the  1969  coup,  the  Higher  Judicial  Council  had  respon- 
sibility for  the  selection,  promotion,  and  discipline  of  members  of 
the  judiciary.  The  council  was  chaired  by  the  president  of  the 


162 


Government  and  Politics 


Supreme  Court  and  included  justices  of  the  court,  the  attorney 
general,  and  three  members  elected  by  the  National  Assembly.  In 
1970  military  officers  assumed  all  positions  on  the  Higher  Judicial 
Council.  The  effect  of  this  change  was  to  make  the  judiciary  ac- 
countable to  the  executive.  One  of  the  announced  aims  of  the  provi- 
sional government  after  the  overthrow  of  Siad  Barre  was  the 
restoration  of  judicial  independence. 

Political  Dynamics 

The  most  significant  political  consequence  of  Siad  Barre 's  twenty- 
one-year  rule  was  an  intensified  identification  with  parochial  clans. 
By  1992  the  multiplicity  of  political  rivalries  among  the  country's 
numerous  clans  seriously  jeopardized  Somalia's  continued  existence 
as  a  unified  state.  There  was  considerable  irony  in  this  situation 
because  Siad  Barre,  following  the  1969  military  coup  that  had 
brought  him  to  power,  had  proclaimed  his  opposition  to  clan  pol- 
itics and  had  justified  the  banning  of  political  parties  on  the  grounds 
that  they  were  merely  partisan  organizations  that  impeded  national 
integration.  Nevertheless,  from  the  beginning  of  his  rule  Siad  Barre 
favored  the  lineages  and  clans  of  his  own  clan-family,  the  Daarood 
(see  The  Segmentary  Social  Order,  ch.  2).  In  particular,  he  dis- 
tributed political  offices  and  the  powers  and  rewards  concomitant 
with  these  positions  disproportionately  to  three  clans  of  the  Daarood: 
his  own  clan,  the  Mareehaan;  the  clan  of  his  son-in-law,  the  Dul- 
bahante;  and  the  clan  of  his  mother,  the  Ogaden.  The  exclusion 
of  other  clans  from  important  government  posts  was  a  gradual 
process,  but  by  the  late  1970s  there  was  a  growing  perception,  at 
least  among  the  political  elite,  that  Siad  Barre  was  unduly  partial 
toward  the  three  Daarood  clans  to  which  he  had  family  ties. 

The  forced  dissolution  of  political  parties  in  1969  and  the  con- 
tinuing prohibition  of  political  activity  tended  to  enhance  the  im- 
portance of  clans  because  family  gatherings  remained  virtually  the 
only  regular  venue  where  politics  could  be  discussed  freely.  The 
creation  in  1976  of  the  government-sponsored  Somali  Revolutionary 
Socialist  Party  (SRSP)  failed  to  fill  the  political  vacuum  created 
by  the  absence  of  legitimate  parties.  Siad  Barre  and  his  closest  mili- 
tary advisers  had  formed  the  SRSP  as  the  country's  sole  political 
organization,  anticipating  that  it  would  transcend  clan  loyalties  and 
mobilize  popular  support  for  government  policies.  The  SRSP's  five- 
member  politburo,  which  Siad  Barre  chaired,  decided  the  party's 
position  on  issues.  The  members  of  the  SRSP,  who  never  num- 
bered more  than  20,000,  implemented  directives  from  the  polit- 
buro (via  the  central  committee)  or  the  government;  they  did  not 
debate  policy.  Because  most  of  the  top  SRSP  leaders  by  1980  were 


163 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

of  the  Mareehaan,  Dulbahante,  or  Ogaden  clans,  the  party  be- 
came another  example  to  disaffected  clans  of  their  exclusion  from 
any  meaningful  political  role. 

Opposition  Movements 

The  first  clan  to  feel  politically  deprived  by  the  military  regime 
was  the  Majeerteen,  which,  like  Siad  Barre's  own  Mareehaan  clan, 
belonged  to  the  Daarood  clan-family.  The  Majeerteen  clan,  along 
with  certain  clans  of  the  Hawiye  and  Isaaq  clan-families,  had  played 
a  significant  role  in  national  politics  before  the  1969  military  coup, 
and  individual  Majeerteen  held  important  positions  in  the 
bureaucracy  and  the  military.  Siad  Barre  apparently  resented  the 
clan's  prominence,  and  as  early  as  1970  was  singling  out  the  Majeer- 
teen lineages  for  alleged  opposition  to  his  reform  efforts.  As  a  clan, 
the  Majeerteen  probably  did  not  oppose  Siad  Barre  at  the  outset. 
However,  his  insensitive  rhetoric  and  discriminatory  appointment 
and  promotion  policies  had  the  effect,  by  the  mid-1970s,  of  alienat- 
ing the  heads  of  the  leading  Majeerteen  lineages,  the  very  persons 
whose  attitudes  were  decisive  in  determining  the  clan's  political 
orientation. 

Majeerteen  officers  were  the  primary  organizers  of  an  unsuc- 
cessful coup  in  April  1978,  following  the  army's  humiliating  defeat 
in  the  Ogaden  War  (see  Persecution  of  the  Majeerteen,  ch.  1).  An 
estimated  500  rebel  soldiers  were  killed  in  fighting  with  forces  loy- 
al to  Siad  Barre,  and  subsequently  seventeen  officers,  all  but  one 
of  them  Majeerteen,  were  executed.  Several  colonels  suspected  of 
plotting  the  coup  escaped  capture,  however,  and  fled  abroad;  one 
of  them,  Yusuf  Ahmad,  played  a  major  role  in  forming  the  Soma- 
li Salvation  Front  (SSF),  the  first  opposition  movement  dedicated 
to  the  overthrow  of  the  Siad  Barre  regime  by  force.  (The  SSF  be- 
came the  Somali  Salvation  Democratic  Front  (SSDF)  in  October 
1981 — see  Sources  of  Opposition,  ch.  5.)  In  1982  SSDF  guerrillas 
with  Ethiopian  army  units  occupied  areas  along  the  border,  in- 
cluding two  district  towns,  but  it  was  not  until  1988  that  they  be- 
gan to  extend  their  control  over  the  western  districts  of  Mudug 
Region  and  the  southern  areas  of  Nugaal  and  Bari  regions. 

The  Isaaq  clans  of  northwestern  Somalia  also  resented  what  they 
perceived  as  their  inadequate  representation  in  Siad  Barre's  govern- 
ment. This  disaffection  crystallized  in  1981  when  Isaaq  dissidents 
living  in  London  formed  the  Somali  National  Movement  (SNM) 
with  the  aim  of  toppling  the  Siad  Barre  regime.  The  following  year, 
the  SNM  transferred  its  headquarters  to  Dire  Dawa,  Ethiopia,  from 
where  it  launched  guerrilla  raids  into  the  Woqooyi  Galbeed  and 
Togdheer  regions  of  Somalia.  Like  the  SSDF,  the  SNM  had  both 


164 


Mogadishu  seafront,  with  city  in  background 
Chisimayu,  one  of  Somalia 's  leading  ports 
Courtesy  R.W.S.  Hudson 


165 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

military  and  political  wings,  proclaimed  itself  as  a  nationwide  op- 
position movement,  and  tried  to  enlist  the  support  of  non-Isaaq 
clans.  Initially,  the  SNM  was  more  successful  than  the  SSDF  in 
appealing  to  other  clans,  and  some  Hawiye  clan  leaders  worked 
with  the  SNM  in  the  early  and  mid-1980s.  Prior  to  establishing 
itself  within  Somalia  in  1988,  the  SNM  used  its  Ethiopian  sanctu- 
ary to  carry  out  a  number  of  sensational  activities  against  the  Siad 
Barre  regime,  most  notably  the  1983  attack  on  Mandera  Prison 
near  Berbera,  which  resulted  in  the  freeing  of  several  northern  dis- 
sidents. 

Siad  Barre 's  response  to  the  guerrilla  movements  included  in- 
creased repression  of  suspected  political  dissent  nationwide  and  bru- 
tal collective  punishments  in  the  Majeerteen  and  Isaaq  regions. 
These  measures  only  intensified  opposition  to  his  regime  (see  Op- 
pression of  the  Isaaq,  ch.  1).  Nevertheless,  the  opposition  failed 
to  unite  because  Siad  Barre' s  strategy  of  using  one  clan  to  carry 
out  government  reprisals  against  a  disfavored  clan  had  the  effect 
of  intensifying  both  inter-  and  intra-clan  antagonisms.  For  exam- 
ple, Hawiye  leaders  who  had  previously  cooperated  with  the  SNM 
decided  in  1989  to  form  their  own  clan-based  opposition  move- 
ment, the  United  Somali  Congress  (USC)  (see  Harrying  of  the 
Hawiye,  ch.  1).  Also,  the  Gadabursi  and  Iise  clans  of  the  Dir  clan- 
family  in  northwestern  Somalia  and  the  Dulbahante  and  Warsan- 
gali  clans  of  the  Daarood  clan-family  in  the  Sanaag  and  Bari  regions 
grew  increasingly  resentful  of  Isaaq  domination  of  districts  "liber- 
ated" from  government  control.  In  1990  the  north's  largest  non- 
Isaaq  clan,  the  Gadabursi,  created  its  own  movement,  the  Somali 
Democratic  Alliance  (SDA). 

The  divisions  within  the  opposition,  however,  did  not  work  to 
Siad  Barre 's  long-term  advantage  because  he  was  gradually  alienat- 
ing an  increasing  number  of  the  country's  clans,  including  the  very 
lineages  of  the  Dulbahante  and  Ogaden  clans  that  had  provided 
his  most  loyal  support.  In  particular,  the  Ogaden  clan,  living  in 
both  Somalia  and  Ethiopia  and  strongly  interested  in  pan-Somali 
issues,  tended  to  blame  Siad  Barre  for  Somalia's  defeat  in  the 
1977-78  Ogaden  War.  This  suppressed  resentment  turned  to  defi- 
ant opposition  after  Siad  Barre  decided  in  1988  to  conclude  a  peace 
agreement  with  Ethiopia.  The  deteriorating  relations  between  Siad 
Barre  and  former  Ogaden  supporters  climaxed  in  1990  with  a  mass 
desertion  of  Ogaden  officers  from  the  army.  These  officers  allied 
with  the  Somali  Patriotic  Movement  (SPM),  a  group  that  had 
formed  in  1985  as  a  result  of  a  split  within  the  SSDF.  The  greatly 
enhanced  military  strength  of  the  SPM  enabled  it  to  capture  and 
hold  several  government  garrisons  in  the  south. 


166 


Government  and  Politics 

Politics  of  Reconciliation 

During  the  final  three  years  of  Siad  Barre's  rule,  there  was  rela- 
tively intense  fighting  throughout  the  country  as  the  opposition 
groups  gradually  wrested  control  of  extensive  areas:  the  SNM  in 
the  northwest,  the  SSDF  in  the  northeast,  the  USC  in  central  Soma- 
lia, and  the  SPM  in  the  south.  Demonstrations  against  Siad  Barre's 
rule  spread  even  to  the  capital,  where  the  military  was  used  to  sup- 
press protests.  A  July  1989  mass  demonstration  in  Mogadishu  was 
dispersed  only  after  government  troops  shot  and  killed  a  number 
of  persons  variously  estimated  to  be  between  200  and  300.  The 
deteriorating  situation  alarmed  those  civilian  politicians,  business- 
men, intellectuals,  and  religious  leaders  who  were  critical  of  the 
regime's  repressive  policies  and  supportive  of  introducing  demo- 
cratic reforms  peacefully.  A  group  of  these  prominent  leaders,  who 
included  representatives  of  all  the  country's  major  clans,  eventu- 
ally formed  the  Council  for  National  Reconciliation  and  Salvation 
(CNRS)  to  press  demands  for  political  change.  In  addition  to  their 
commitment  to  democratization,  those  involved  with  the  CNRS 
also  wished  to  create  a  political  organization  that  would  transcend 
clan  loyalties.  The  CNRS  issued  its  first  open  manifesto  in  May 
1990.  This  document,  signed  by  114  leading  citizens  of  Mogadishu, 
called  for  Siad  Barre's  resignation,  the  establishment  of  an  interim 
government  consisting  of  representatives  of  the  opposition  move- 
ments, and  a  timetable  for  multiparty  elections. 

The  CNRS's  manifesto  aroused  interest  both  in  and  outside 
Somalia,  although  it  was  not  welcomed  by  Siad  Barre.  Neverthe- 
less, the  president  was  reluctant  to  take  immediate  action  against 
the  signatories  because  of  the  risks  involved  in  antagonizing  so  many 
different  clans  and  further  straining  diplomatic  relations  with  donor 
countries  that  had  become  critical  of  his  regime's  human  rights 
policies  (see  Foreign  Policy,  this  ch.).  Siad  Barre  eventually  did 
order  the  arrest  of  the  signers,  although  security  forces  were  able 
to  round  up  only  forty-five  of  them.  Their  detention  prompted 
strenuous  protests  from  Egypt,  Italy,  and  other  countries,  and  af- 
ter a  few  weeks  the  regime  released  them.  The  experience  embol- 
dened the  CNRS  to  push  more  assertively  for  peaceful  resolution 
of  the  country's  political  crisis.  With  the  support  of  Egypt  and  Ita- 
ly, the  CNRS  called  in  September  1990  for  a  national  reconcilia- 
tion roundtable.  The  CNRS  invited  the  Siad  Barre  regime  and 
five  guerrilla  groups  to  send  representatives  to  Cairo  to  discuss  how 
to  end  the  dictatorship  and  return  the  country  to  democratic  govern- 
ment. Neither  Siad  Barre  nor  the  armed  opposition,  however,  were 


167 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

willing  to  attend  such  a  roundtable  unless  each  party  agreed  to  the 
other's  conditions. 

In  1990  guerrilla  leaders  generally  were  disinclined  to  negotiate 
with  the  Siad  Barre  regime  because  they  had  become  convinced 
of  their  eventual  success.  The  prospect  of  defeating  Siad  Barre  in- 
evitably compelled  them  to  focus  on  relations  among  their  various 
organizations.  A  series  of  informal  talks  concluded  in  August  1990 
with  an  announcement  from  the  SNM,  the  Mahammad  Faarah 
Aidid  faction  of  the  USC,  and  the  SPM  that  they  had  agreed  to 
coordinate  strategy  toward  the  government.  In  September  leaders 
of  the  three  groups  met  in  Ethiopia,  where  they  signed  an  agree- 
ment to  form  a  military  alliance.  Although  cooperation  among  the 
major  opposition  forces  was  essential  to  a  smooth  transition  to  a 
post-Siad  Barre  era,  the  pace  of  events  after  September  did  not 
provide  adequate  time  for  mutual  trust  and  cooperative  relations 
to  develop.  The  SNM,  USC,  and  SPM  fighters,  who  for  the  most 
part  operated  in  clan-based  enclaves,  never  participated  in  any  joint 
actions.  During  the  final  assault  on  Siad  Barre 's  forces,  in  December 
1990  and  January  1991,  guerrillas  of  the  Abgaal  faction  of  the  USC 
infiltrated  Mogadishu,  whose  population  was  approximately  80  per- 
cent Hawiye,  and  successfully  fought  without  the  assistance  of  either 
the  SNM,  the  SPM,  or  the  Habar  Gidir  faction  of  the  USC. 

Politics  of  Succession 

The  USC's  announcement  of  a  provisional  government  in  Febru- 
ary 1991  angered  its  allies,  who  maintained  that  they  had  not  been 
consulted.  Other  opposition  movements,  particularly  the  SSDF, 
felt  that  the  USC  had  slighted  their  long  years  of  struggle  against 
the  Siad  Barre  regime,  and  refused  to  accept  the  legitimacy  of  the 
provisional  government.  The  SPM  and  the  SSDF  formed  a  loose 
alliance  to  contest  USC  control  of  the  central  government  and  oust- 
ed USC  forces  from  Chisimayu,  a  major  southern  city.  Violent 
clashes  throughout  March  threatened  to  return  the  country  to  civil 
war.  Although  in  early  April  1991,  the  USC  and  its  guerrilla  op- 
ponents in  the  south  agreed  to  a  cease-fire,  this  agreement  broke 
down  in  the  latter  part  of  the  year  as  fighting  spread  throughout 
those  areas  of  Somalia  under  the  nominal  control  of  the  the  provi- 
sional government.  The  provisional  government  was  continuing 
to  hold  talks  on  power  sharing,  but  the  prospects  for  long-term  po- 
litical stability  remained  uncertain. 

The  situation  in  northern  Somalia  was  even  more  serious  for 
the  provisional  government.  The  dominant  SNM,  whose  fighters 
had  evicted  Siad  Barre 's  forces  from  almost  all  of  Woqooyi  Gal- 
beed,  Togdheer,  and  Sanaag  regions  as  early  as  October  1990,  had 


168 


Government  and  Politics 


also  captured  the  besieged  garrisons  at  Berbera,  Burao,  and  Har- 
geysa  at  the  end  of  January;  they  were  not  prepared  to  hand  over 
control  to  the  new  government  in  Mogadishu.  Like  its  counter- 
parts in  the  south,  the  SNM  criticized  the  USC's  unilateral  takeover 
of  the  central  government,  and  the  SNM  leadership  refused  to  par- 
ticipate in  USC -proposed  unity  talks.  The  SNM  moved  to  con- 
solidate its  own  position  by  assuming  responsibility  for  all  aspects 
of  local  administration  in  the  north.  Lacking  the  cooperation  of 
the  SNM,  the  provisional  government  was  powerless  to  assert  its 
own  authority  in  the  region.  The  SNM's  political  objectives  be- 
gan to  clarify  by  the  end  of  February  1991 ,  when  the  organization 
held  a  conference  at  which  the  feasibility  of  revoking  the  1960  act 
of  union  was  seriously  debated. 

In  the  weeks  following  Siad  Barre's  overthrow,  the  SNM  consid- 
ered its  relations  with  the  non-Isaaq  clans  of  the  north  to  be  more 
problematic  than  its  relations  with  the  provisional  government.  The 
SDA,  supported  primarily  by  the  Gadabursi  clan,  and  the  rela- 
tively new  United  Somali  Front  (USF),  formed  by  members  of  the 
Iise  clan,  felt  apprehension  at  the  prospect  of  SNM  control  of  their 
areas.  During  February  there  were  clashes  between  SNM  and  USF 
fighters  in  Seylac  and  its  environs.  The  militarily  dominant  SNM, 
although  making  clear  that  it  would  not  tolerate  armed  opposition 
to  its  rule,  demonstrated  flexibility  in  working  out  local  power- 
sharing  arrangements  with  the  various  clans.  SNM  leaders  spon- 
sored public  meetings  throughout  the  north,  using  the  common 
northern  resentment  against  the  southern-based  central  government 
to  help  defuse  interclan  animosities.  The  SNM  administration  per- 
suaded the  leaders  of  all  the  north's  major  clans  to  attend  a  con- 
ference at  Burao  in  April  1991 ,  at  which  the  region's  political  future 
was  debated.  Delegates  to  the  Burao  conference  passed  several  reso- 
lutions pertaining  to  the  future  independence  of  the  north  from 
the  south  and  created  a  standing  committee,  carefully  balanced  in 
terms  of  clan  representation,  to  draft  a  constitution.  The  delegates 
also  called  for  the  formation  of  an  interim  government  to  rule  the 
north  until  multiparty  elections  could  be  held. 

The  Central  Committee  of  the  SNM  adopted  most  of  the  reso- 
lutions of  the  Burao  conference  as  party  policy.  Although  some 
SNM  leaders  opposed  secession,  the  Central  Committee  moved 
forward  with  plans  for  an  independent  state,  and  on  May  17,  1991 , 
announced  the  formation  of  the  Republic  of  Somaliland.  The  new 
state's  border  roughly  paralleled  those  of  the  former  colony,  Brit- 
ish Somaliland.  SNM  Secretary  General  Abdirahmaan  Ahmad  Ali 
"Tour"  was  named  president  and  Hasan  Iise  Jaama  vice  president. 
Ali  "Tour"  appointed  a  seventeen-member  cabinet  to  administer 


169 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

the  state.  The  SNM  termed  the  new  regime  an  interim  govern- 
ment having  a  mandate  to  rule  pending  elections  scheduled  for  1993. 
During  1991  and  1992,  the  interim  government  established  the  shar- 
ia  as  the  principal  law  of  the  new  republic  and  chose  a  national 
flag.  It  promised  to  protect  an  array  of  liberties,  including  free- 
dom of  the  press,  free  elections,  and  the  right  to  form  political  par- 
ties, and  tried,  albeit  unsuccessfully,  to  win  international  recognition 
for  the  Republic  of  Somaliland  as  a  separate  country. 

Politics  of  Disintegration 

Mogadishu  could  not  deal  effectively  with  the  political  challenge 
in  the  north  because  the  interim  government  of  President  Ali  Mahdi 
Mahamaad  gradually  lost  control  of  central  authority.  Even  though 
the  interim  government  was  dominated  by  the  USC ,  this  guerrilla 
force  failed  to  adapt  to  its  new  position  as  a  political  party.  Although 
the  USC  was  primarily  a  Hawiye  militia,  it  was  internally  divided 
between  two  major  Hawiye  clans,  the  Abgaal  and  Habar  Gidir. 
Once  in  power,  the  clans  began  to  argue  over  the  distribution  of 
political  offices.  Interim  president  Mahammad  emerged  as  the  most 
prominent  Abgaal  leader  whereas  Aidid  emerged  as  the  most  in- 
fluential Habar  Gidir  leader.  Fighters  loyal  to  each  man  clashed 
in  the  streets  of  Mogadishu  during  the  summer  of  1991,  then  en- 
gaged in  open  battle  beginning  in  September.  By  the  end  of  the 
year,  the  fighting  had  resulted  in  divided  control  of  the  capital. 
Aidid 's  guerrillas  held  southern  Mogadishu,  which  included  the 
port  area  and  the  international  airport,  and  Mahammad 's  forces 
controlled  the  area  around  the  presidential  palace  in  central 
Mogadishu  and  the  northern  suburbs. 

A  United  Nations-mediated  cease-fire  agreement  that  came  into 
effect  in  March  1992  helped  to  reduce  the  level  of  fighting,  but 
did  not  end  all  the  violence.  Neither  Mahammad  nor  Aidid  was 
prepared  to  compromise  over  political  differences,  and,  consequent- 
ly, Mogadishu  remained  divided.  Aidid' s  faction  of  the  USC  com- 
prised an  estimated  10,000  guerrillas.  Many  of  these  men  looted 
food  supplies  destined  for  famine  victims  and  interfered  with  the 
operations  of  the  international  relief  agencies.  They  justified  their 
actions  on  the  grounds  that  the  assistance  would  help  their  ene- 
mies, the  USC  faction  loyal  to  Mahammad.  The  pro-Mahammad 
forces  included  an  estimated  5,000  fighters.  They  also  used  food 
as  a  weapon. 

Mass  Media 

Prior  to  the  overthrow  of  the  Siad  Barre  regime  in  January  1991 , 
all  domestic  publications  and  broadcasting  were  controlled  by  the 


170 


One  of  numerous  foreign  relief  grain  shipments  being  unloaded  in 

Berbera  port  for  distribution,  1991 
Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 

government.  The  Ministry  of  Information  and  National  Guidance 
published  the  country's  only  daily  newspaper,  Xiddigta  Oktoobar  (Oc- 
tober Star),  which  offered  editions  in  Arabic,  English,  Italian,  and 
Somali.  The  ministry  also  published  a  variety  of  weekly  and  monthly 
magazines.  The  state-run  Somali  National  News  Agency  (SON- 
NA)  distributed  press  reports  about  the  country  to  foreign  news 
bureaus.  The  ministry's  Broadcasting  Department  was  responsi- 
ble for  radio  and  television  broadcasts.  The  two  radio  stations,  at 
Mogadishu  and  Hargeysa,  transmitted  a  variety  of  news  and  en- 
tertainment programs.  Radio  Mogadishu  featured  about  two  hours 
each  day  of  programs  in  foreign  languages,  including  Afar,  Am- 
haric,  Arabic,  English,  French,  Italian,  Oromo,  and  Swahili.  In 
1988,  the  most  recent  year  for  which  statistics  were  available,  there 
were  an  estimated  375,000  radio  receivers  in  Somalia.  Television 
service  was  inaugurated  in  1983;  two  hours  of  programs  were  broad- 
cast daily  from  Mogadishu.  The  civil  war  disrupted  service  in  the 
1990s,  however. 

After  Siad  Barre's  ouster,  the  provisional  government  maintained 
the  publishing  and  broadcasting  functions  of  the  Ministry  of  In- 
formation and  National  Guidance.  However,  it  had  no  authority 


171 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

over  the  new  Radio  Hargeysa,  which  was  controlled  by  the  SNM, 
and  which,  following  the  May  1991  declaration  of  independence, 
was  renamed  the  Voice  of  the  Republic  of  Somaliland.  The  provi- 
sional government  in  the  south  announced  that  newspapers  would 
be  permitted  to  publish  free  of  government  censorship,  but  by 
mid- 1991,  the  only  new  paper  that  had  appeared  was  the  USC's 
Al  Majlis  (The  Council).  Subsequently,  publication  of  newspapers 
became  impossible  because  the  country  disintegrated  into  civil  war 
in  late  1991  and  early  1992. 

Foreign  Relations 

The  provisional  government  established  in  February  1991  in- 
herited a  legacy  of  problematic  relations  with  neighboring  states 
and  economic  dependence  on  aid  from  Arab  and  Western  nations. 
Relations  between  Somalia  and  its  three  neighbors — Djibouti, 
Ethiopia,  and  Kenya — had  been  poisoned  for  more  than  two  de- 
cades by  Somalia's  irredentist  claims  to  areas  inhabited  by  ethnic 
Somalis  in  each  of  these  three  states.  The  1977-78  Ogaden  War 
with  Ethiopia,  although  a  humiliating  defeat  for  Somalia,  had  creat- 
ed deep  suspicions  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  concerning  the  intentions 
of  the  Siad  Barre  regime.  The  continuing  strain  in  Somali-Ethiopian 
relations  tended  to  reinforce  these  suspicions. 

Civil  strife  in  Ethiopia  and  repressive  measures  in  the  Ogaden 
caused  more  than  650,000  ethnic  Somalis  and  Oromo  residing  in 
Ethiopia  to  flee  to  Somalia  by  early  1978.  The  integration  of  so 
many  refugees  into  an  essentially  agrarian  society  afflicted  by  per- 
sistent drought  was  beyond  Somalia's  economic  capacity.  In  the 
absence  of  a  peace  agreement,  prospects  for  repatriation  continued 
to  be  virtually  nonexistent.  The  Siad  Barre  government's  solution 
to  this  major  political,  social,  and  economic  problem  was  to  make 
the  search  for  generous  financial  assistance  a  focal  point  of  its  for- 
eign policy. 

Relations  with  Neighboring  African  States 

For  ten  years  after  the  Ogaden  War,  the  Siad  Barre  government 
refused  to  renounce  its  public  support  of  the  Ethiopian  guerrilla 
organization,  the  Western  Somali  Liberation  Front,  and  provid- 
ed it  with  clandestine  military  assistance  to  carry  out  raids  inside 
Ethiopia.  The  Mengistu  Haile-Mariam  government  responded  in 
kind  by  providing  bases,  sanctuary,  and  military  assistance  to  the 
SSDF  and  the  SNM.  Siad  Barre' s  fear  of  Ethiopian  military  pow- 
er induced  him  in  the  early  1980s  to  begin  a  process  of  rapproche- 
ment with  Somalia's  other  neighbors,  Kenya  and  the  former  French 
territory  of  Djibouti.  Kenya  had  long  suspected  Somalia  of 


172 


Government  and  Politics 


encouraging  separatist  activities  among  the  predominantly  ethnic 
Somali  population  in  its  North-Eastern  Region.  Following  a  1981 
summit  meeting  with  Kenyan  president  Daniel  arap  Moi  in  Nairo- 
bi, Siad  Barre's  public  renunciation  of  any  Somali  territorial  claims 
on  Kenya  helped  dissipate  mistrust. 

Beginning  in  1982,  both  Kenya  and  Djibouti,  apparently  en- 
couraged by  Siad  Barre's  stated  willingness  to  hold  direct  talks  with 
Mengistu,  made  diplomatic  efforts  to  mediate  between  Somalia  and 
Ethiopia.  It  was  not  until  1986,  however,  that  Siad  Barre  and  Men- 
gistu finally  agreed  to  meet.  This  first  meeting  since  before  the 
Ogaden  War  took  place  in  the  city  of  Djibouti  and  marked  the  be- 
ginning of  a  gradual  rapprochement.  Siad  Barre's  willingness  to 
defuse  the  situation  along  the  Somali-Ethiopian  border  stemmed 
from  the  combined  pressures  of  escalating  guerrilla  activity,  overt 
Ethiopian  military  threats,  drought,  and  the  destabilizing  presence 
of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Ethiopian  refugees.  Siad  Barre  and 
Mengistu  held  a  second  meeting  in  April  1988,  at  which  they  signed 
a  peace  agreement  and  formally  reestablished  diplomatic  relations. 
Both  leaders  agreed  to  withdraw  their  troops  from  their  mutual 
borders  and  to  cease  support  for  armed  dissident  groups  trying 
to  overthrow  the  respective  governments  in  Addis  Ababa  and 
Mogadishu. 

The  peace  accord  failed  to  provide  Siad  Barre  respite  from  guer- 
rilla activity  and  probably  contributed  to  his  eventual  demise.  An- 
ticipating the  possibility  of  being  expelled  from  Ethiopia,  the  SNM 
decided  to  relocate  within  Somalia  itself,  a  decision  that  drastical- 
ly changed  the  nature  of  the  conflict  in  the  north.  Despite  the  ter- 
mination of  Ethiopian  assistance,  SNM  guerrillas  continued  to 
defeat  Siad  Barre's  forces  with  relative  ease;  by  August  1988,  they 
had  captured  Hargeysa  and  other  northern  towns.  Siad  Barre 
responded  by  ordering  massive  aerial  bombing,  carried  out  by  for- 
eign mercenary  pilots,  that  damaged  or  destroyed  almost  every 
building  in  Hargeysa  (see  Sources  of  Opposition,  ch.  5).  The  bru- 
tal attack,  which  resulted  in  thousands  of  civilian  casualties  and 
brought  both  domestic  and  international  opprobrium  upon  the  Siad 
Barre  regime,  failed  to  crush  the  SNM.  Fighting  not  only  intensi- 
fied in  the  north  over  the  next  eighteen  months,  but  also  spread 
throughout  the  country,  forcing  an  estimated  800,000  Somalis  to 
seek  refuge  in  Ethiopia. 

In  March  1990,  Siad  Barre  accused  Ethiopia  of  having  violated 
the  1988  peace  agreement  by  providing  continued  military  sup- 
port to  the  SNM.  However,  by  this  time  the  Mengistu  govern- 
ment was  as  beleaguered  as  the  Siad  Barre  regime  by  armed 
opposition  movements  and  was  not  in  a  position  to  assist  any  Somali 


173 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

rebels.  Soon  after  Siad  Barre  fled  Mogadishu  in  January  1991, 
Mengistu  followed  his  example  by  fleeing  Addis  Ababa  as  guerrilla 
armies  closed  upon  the  Ethiopian  capital.  Throughout  1991  the  new 
provisional  governments  in  Somalia  and  Ethiopia  regarded  each 
other  cautiously.  Both  were  threatened  by  separatist  movements 
and  both  had  an  interest  in  maintaining  the  integrity  of  interna- 
tionally recognized  borders.  As  conditions  in  Somalia  worsened 
on  account  of  civil  strife,  the  collapse  of  central  authority,  and  the 
disruption  of  food  production  and  distribution,  tens  of  thousands 
of  Somalis  fled  to  Ethiopia,  creating  a  massive  refugee  situation 
in  that  country  by  early  1992. 

Sharing  land  borders  with  both  Somalia  and  Ethiopia,  Djibouti 
believed  it  was  in  the  long-term  interests  of  the  Horn  of  Africa  region 
if  both  countries  remained  intact.  Djibouti's  president,  Hassan 
Gouled  Aptidon,  attempted  to  mediate  between  the  provisional 
government  and  the  SNM  and  offered  his  capital  as  a  neutral  meet- 
ing place.  In  June  1991 ,  Djibouti  served  as  the  venue  for  a  nation- 
al reconciliation  conference  between  the  USC  and  several  other 
groups. 

With  the  majority  of  Djibouti's  diverse  population  consisting  of 
ethnic  Somalis,  Aptidon 's  concern  about  Somalia's  future  was  not 
entirely  altruistic.  The  Somalis  of  Djibouti  belonged  overwhelm- 
ingly to  the  Iise  clan,  traditional  rival  of  the  Isaaq,  who  dominat- 
ed the  SNM.  The  Djibouti  Iise  tended  to  be  suspicious  of  the  Isaaq, 
believing  that  they  discriminated  against  their  Iise  kinsmen  in  north- 
ern Somalia.  This  concern  had  prompted  Djibouti  in  1990  to  as- 
sist in  the  formation  and  training  of  a  separate  Iise  movement  that 
challenged  the  SNM  before  and  after  the  overthrow  of  Siad  Barre. 
From  Djibouti's  perspective,  a  united  Somalia  composed  of  many 
clans  afforded  more  protection  to  the  Iise  than  a  northern  republic 
controlled  by  Isaaq. 

Kenya  was  concerned  about  the  situation  in  southern  Somalia, 
which  continued  to  be  unstable  throughout  1991 .  Somali  refugees, 
both  civilian  and  military,  had  crossed  the  border  into  northern 
Kenya  to  escape  the  fighting.  The  refugees  included  more  than 
fifty  close  associates  of  Siad  Barre  who  were  granted  political  asy- 
lum. Since  the  provisional  government  had  announced  its  inten- 
tion to  try  these  officials,  this  action  had  the  potential  to  provoke 
political  problems  between  Kenya  and  Somalia.  By  early  1992,  tens 
of  thousands  of  Somalis  were  being  sheltered  in  makeshift  refugee 
camps  in  northern  Kenya. 

Relations  with  Arab  Countries 

Somalia  has  a  long  history  of  cultural,  religious,  and  trade  ties 


174 


An  elderly  woman  from  Burao, 
a  town  in  northern 
Somalia  severely  damaged 
in  the  civil  war,  1991 
Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 


Village  children  near  their  hut 
Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

with  the  Arabs  of  the  Arabian  Peninsula,  which  lies  across  the  Gulf 
of  Aden.  Although  Somalis  ethnically  are  not  Arabs,  they  identify 
more  with  Arabs  than  with  their  fellow  Africans.  Thus  it  was  not 
surprising  when  Somalia  joined  the  League  of  Arab  States  (Arab 
League)  in  1974,  becoming  the  first  non-Arab  member  of  that  or- 
ganization. Initially,  Somalia  tended  to  support  those  Arab  coun- 
tries such  as  Algeria,  Iraq,  and  Libya  that  opposed  United  States 
policies  in  the  Middle  East.  After  its  defeat  in  the  Ogaden  War, 
the  Siad  Barre  regime  aligned  its  policies  more  closely  with  those 
of  Egypt  and  Saudi  Arabia.  Subsequently,  both  of  these  countries 
began  to  provide  military  aid  to  Somalia.  Other  Arab  states,  in 
particular  Libya,  angered  Siad  Barre  by  supporting  Ethiopia.  In 
1981  Somalia  broke  diplomatic  relations  with  Libya,  claiming  that 
Libyan  leader  Muammar  al  Qadhafi  was  supporting  the  SSDF  and 
the  nascent  SNM.  Relations  were  not  restored  until  1985. 

Throughout  the  1980s,  Somalia  became  increasingly  dependent 
upon  economic  aid  from  the  conservative,  wealthy,  oil-exporting 
states  of  Kuwait,  Qatar,  Saudi  Arabia,  and  the  United  Arab 
Emirates.  This  dependence  was  a  crucial  factor  in  the  Siad  Barre 
regime's  decision  to  side  with  the  United  States-led  coalition  of  Arab 
states  that  opposed  Iraq  following  that  country's  invasion  of  Kuwait 
in  1990.  Support  for  the  coalition  brought  economic  dividends:  Qa- 
tar canceled  further  repayment  of  all  principal  and  interest  on  out- 
standing loans,  and  Saudi  Arabia  offered  Somalia  a  US$70  million 
grant  and  promised  to  sell  it  oil  at  below  prevailing  international 
market  prices. 

Relations  with  the  United  States 

Prior  to  the  Ogaden  War,  Somalia  had  been  allied  with  the  Soviet 
Union,  and  its  relations  with  the  United  States  were  strained.  Large- 
ly because  the  Soviet  Union  sided  with  Ethiopia  in  the  Ogaden 
War,  a  United  States-Somali  rapprochement  began  in  1977  and 
culminated  in  a  military  access  agreement  in  1980  that  permitted 
the  United  States  to  use  naval  ports  and  airfields  at  Berbera, 
Chisimayu,  and  Mogadishu,  in  exchange  for  military  and  economic 
aid.  The  United  States  subsequently  refurbished  facilities  originally 
developed  by  the  Soviet  Union  at  the  Gulf  of  Aden  port  of  Ber- 
bera. The  United  States  Rapid  Deployment  Force  used  Berbera 
as  a  base  for  its  Operation  Bright  Star  exercises  in  1981,  and  Ameri- 
can military  advisers  were  permanently  stationed  there  one  year 
later.  Somali  military  units  participated  in  Operation  Bright  Star 
joint  maneuvers  in  1985.  The  base  at  Berbera  was  used  in  the  fall 
of  1990  during  the  deployment  of  personnel  and  supplies  to  Saudi 
Arabia  in  preparation  for  the  Persian  Gulf  War. 


176 


Government  and  Politics 


Controversy  over  the  Siad  Barre  government's  human  rights  poli- 
cies clouded  the  future  of  United  States  military  cooperation  with 
Somalia.  Siad  Barre 's  policy  of  repression  in  the  north  aroused  criti- 
cism of  his  regime  in  the  United  States  Congress,  where  the  Foreign 
Affairs  Committee  of  the  House  of  Representatives  held  extensive 
hearings  during  July  1988  on  human  rights  abuses  in  Somalia.  In 
1989,  under  congressional  pressure,  the  administration  of  Presi- 
dent George  Bush  terminated  military  aid  to  Somalia,  although 
it  continued  to  provide  food  assistance  and  to  operate  a  small  In- 
ternational Military  Education  and  Training  program  (see  For- 
eign Military  Assistance,  ch.  5).  In  1990  Washington  revealed  that 
Mogadishu  had  been  in  default  on  loan  repayments  for  more  than 
a  year.  Therefore,  under  the  terms  of  the  Brooke  Amendment,  this 
meant  that  Somalia  was  ineligible  to  receive  any  further  United 
States  aid.  During  the  height  of  the  fighting  in  Mogadishu  in  Janu- 
ary 1991,  the  United  States  closed  its  embassy  and  evacuated  all 
its  personnel  from  the  country.  The  embassy  was  ransacked  by  mobs 
in  the  final  days  of  the  Siad  Barre  regime.  The  United  States  recog- 
nized the  provisional  government  shortly  after  its  establishment. 
Since  the  outbreak  of  the  civil  war,  the  United  States  has  consis- 
tently urged  all  parties  to  come  together  to  resolve  their  dispute 
by  peaceful  means.  The  United  States  government  has  supported 
the  territorial  unity  of  Somalia  and  as  of  May  1992  had  refused 
to  recognize  the  independence  of  northern  Somalia  proclaimed  by 
the  SNM. 

Other  Foreign  Relations 

The  former  colonial  powers,  Italy  and  Britain,  both  maintained 
an  interest  in  Somalia.  Italy  was  more  influential,  perhaps  because 
it  had  provided  extensive  development  aid  to  Somalia  during  the 
1980s.  Italy  was  instrumental  in  getting  preferential  treatment  for 
Somali  exports  to  the  European  Economic  Community.  Italy  also 
made  considerable,  albeit  unsuccessful,  efforts  to  resolve  the  con- 
flict between  Siad  Barre  and  his  opponents.  The  last  Italian  effort, 
in  cooperation  with  Egypt  in  November  and  December  1990,  failed 
because  the  USC  and  SNM  refused  to  meet  with  any  representa- 
tive of  the  Siad  Barre  regime.  In  1986  Somalia  and  the  Soviet 
Union  reestablished  diplomatic  relations,  broken  during  the  Ogaden 
War. 

In  mid- 1991  Somalia  was  a  member  of  the  United  Nations  and 
its  specialized  agencies,  the  Organization  of  African  Unity,  the 
League  of  Arab  States,  and  the  World  Bank  (see  Glossary). 

*    *  * 


177 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Although  no  books  deal  comprehensively  with  Somali  politics 
since  the  1977-78  Ogaden  War,  chapters  in  several  different  studies 
provide  an  analysis  of  this  important  period.  A  History  of  Modern 
Somalia  by  I.M.  Lewis  is  an  indispensable  starting  point  for  gain- 
ing a  deeper  understanding  of  Somali  politics.  Chapters  nine  and 
ten  of  the  1988  revised  edition  deal  with  the  Siad  Barre  govern- 
ment and  are  particularly  helpful.  Parts  of  chapters  four,  six,  and 
seven  of  Somalia:  Nation  in  Search  of  a  State,  by  David  D.  Laitin  and 
Said  S.  Samatar,  provide  insight  into  Siad  Barre' s  political  style, 
the  formation  of  opposition  movements,  and  the  conduct  of  for- 
eign relations.  Chapters  six,  seven,  and  eight  of  Ahmed  Samatar' s 
Socialist  Somalia  examine  the  impact  of  the  Ogaden  War  on  the  coun- 
try's  domestic  and  foreign  relations. 

Information  on  recent  and  current  Somali  political  affairs  can 
be  found  in  several  periodicals,  including  Africa  Contemporary  Record, 
Africa  Today,  African  Development,  Asian  and  African  Studies,  Current 
History,  Horn  of  Africa,  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies,  and  Revue 
frangaise  d ' etudes  politiques  afrigaines.  (For  further  information  and  com- 
plete citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


178 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


Detail  from  bronze  relief  on  monument  in 

Mogadishu  depicting  deeds  of  Somali  patriot 

Mahammad  Abdille  Hasan,  the  legendary  "Mad  Mullah" 


After  Somalia  gained  independence  in  i960,  its 

military  grew  steadily,  despite  the  country's  status  as  one  of  the 
poorest  states  in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  Largely  under  Soviet 
patronage,  the  military  expanded  from  5,000  troops  at  indepen- 
dence to  23,000  during  the  1977-78  Ogaden  War.  By  1981  the 
armed  forces  had  50,000  personnel;  by  1990  that  number  had  in- 
creased to  65,000. 

Until  the  Ogaden  War,  Somalia  possessed  one  of  East  Africa's 
best  equipped  armed  forces.  However,  Ethiopia  destroyed  much 
of  the  army's  fighting  capability  during  the  1977-78  conflict.  To 
rebuild  its  military,  Somalia  sought  assistance  from  China  and  a 
variety  of  Arab  and  Western  countries,  including  the  United  States. 

Somalia's  defeat  in  the  Ogaden  War  and  deteriorating  internal 
conditions  lost  the  government  much  of  its  domestic  support.  As 
the  Mahammad  Siad  Barre  regime  became  more  politically  isolat- 
ed, the  president  and  members  of  his  Mareehaan  subclan  increas- 
ingly dominated  the  government,  the  economy,  and  the  armed 
forces.  Growing  oppression  in  Somalia  forced  many  critics  into  ex- 
ile, where  they  organized  opposition  groups.  A  lack  of  resources 
initially  limited  the  exiles'  opposition  activity  to  propaganda  cam- 
paigns and  occasional  minor  guerrilla  forays  into  Somalia. 

By  the  late  1980s,  several  opposition  groups  had  transformed 
themselves  into  relatively  powerful,  clan-based  (see  Glossary)  in- 
surgent movements.  Relying  on  financial  assistance  from  Somali 
exile  communities  and  various  foreign  governments,  the  insurgents 
grew  in  strength  and  numbers.  The  armed  forces,  which  eventu- 
ally faced  insurgencies  throughout  Somalia,  gradually  disintegrated. 
Finally,  in  early  1991  Siad  Barre  and  many  of  his  closest  Maree- 
haan advisers  relinquished  power  and  fled  Mogadishu.  If  Somalia 
were  to  have  a  future  as  a  single  nation,  reconstituting  the  armed 
forces  on  a  more  representative  basis  would  be  essential  to  nation- 
al unity  and  stability. 

International  Security  Concerns 

From  independence  until  the  mid-1980s,  Somalia's  national  secu- 
rity concerns  focused  largely  on  the  threat  posed  by  its  neighbor, 
Ethiopia.  After  the  Ogaden  War,  Ethiopia  used  Soviet,  Cuban, 
and  East  European  military  and  technical  assistance  to  establish 
itself  as  the  dominant  power  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  By  the  mid- 
1980s,  Ethiopia's  support  of  Somali  insurgent  groups  posed  a 


181 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

growing  threat  to  Somalia's  internal  security.  In  early  1991,  Somali- 
Ethiopian  tensions  eased  as  long-established  governments  fell  in 
both  Mogadishu  and  Addis  Ababa.  By  mid- 1992,  however,  it  re- 
mained unclear  whether  relations  between  the  two  countries  would 
be  characterized  by  cooperation  and  peace,  or  if  old  arguments  over 
the  Ogaden's  (Ogaadeen)  status  would  renew  the  hostility  between 
Somalia  and  Ethiopia. 

Irredentism  and  the  Changing  Balance  of  Power 

Somalia's  defeat  in  the  Ogaden  War,  Ethiopian  hostility,  the 
emergence  of  an  alliance  between  Addis  Ababa  and  Moscow, 
regional  tensions,  and  periods  of  international  isolation  all  result- 
ed directly  or  indirecdy  from  Somalia's  unwillingness  to  recognize 
political  boundaries  drawn  by  British,  French,  and  Italian  colonists, 
in  conjunction  with  Ethiopia.  Since  independence,  successive  Somali 
governments  had  sought  to  reincorporate  those  Somalis  living  in 
Ethiopia,  Kenya,  and  Djibouti  into  Greater  Somalia.  (Under  the 
Siad  Barre  regime,  the  five-pointed  star  on  the  Somali  flag 
represented  the  northern  and  southern  regions  of  the  republic  and 
the  "unredeemed  territories"  in  Kenya's  North-Eastern  Province, 
Ethiopia's  Ogaden  region,  and  Djibouti.)  In  1960-64,  for  exam- 
ple, guerrillas  supported  by  the  Somali  government  battled  local 
security  forces  in  Kenya  and  Ethiopia  on  behalf  of  Somalia's  ter- 
ritorial claims.  Then,  in  1964,  Ethiopian  and  Somali  regular  forces 
clashed. 

By  late  1964,  it  had  become  obvious  that  the  initial  campaign 
to  unify  all  Somalis  had  failed.  Ethiopian  forces  had  established 
superiority  over  the  Somalis  in  the  Ogaden,  in  part  because  of  Ethio- 
pia's ability  to  conduct  air  raids  on  Somali  territory.  In  Kenya  the 
government  relied  on  assistance  from  British  counterinsurgency 
experts  to  control  Somali  guerrillas  in  what  was  then  the  Northern 
Frontier  District  (NFD).  In  late  1964,  Kenya's  president  Jomo 
Kenyatta  and  Ethiopia's  emperor  Haile  Selassie  signed  a  mutual 
defense  agreement  aimed  at  containing  Somali  aggression.  The  two 
countries  renewed  the  pact  in  1979  and  again  in  1989.  These  fac- 
tors, in  combination  with  the  opposition  of  the  Organization  of  Afri- 
can Unity  to  Somali  aims  and  defense  costs  that  amounted  to  30 
percent  of  the  national  budget  in  the  mid-1980s,  forced  Mogadishu 
to  reconsider  its  territorial  ambitions. 

Under  Mahammad  Ibrahim  Igaal,  Somalia's  last  civilian  gov- 
ernment initiated — and  Siad  Barre 's  military  regime  initially 
continued — a  policy  of  detente  with  Somalia's  neighbors.  During 
the  1970s,  however,  Somali  military  strength  gradually  increased 
as  a  result  of  Soviet  support.  The  Soviet  Union  supplied  the  Somali 


182 


National  Security 


National  Army  (SNA)  with  the  largest  tank  force  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa,  transport  vehicles — including  armored  personnel  carriers — 
for  a  largely  mechanized  infantry,  and  jet  aircraft  that  included 
MiG-21  fighter-bombers.  In  1974  Somalia  and  the  Soviet  Union 
formalized  their  relationship  by  signing  the  Treaty  of  Friendship 
and  Cooperation.  The  Ethiopian  army  at  that  time  remained  twice 
as  large  as  Somalia's  23,000-man  force,  but  because  of  reduced 
military  aid  from  the  United  States,  the  Ethiopians  were  not  as 
well  equipped.  Furthermore,  in  1974  Ethiopia's  imperial  govern- 
ment was  headed  toward  collapse.  In  September  of  that  year  a  group 
of  military  officers  deposed  Haile  Selassie.  Conflict  ensued  among 
those  responsible  for  his  overthrow,  and  several  insurgent  groups 
sought  to  secede  from  the  erstwhile  empire. 

Somalia's  military  buildup,  coincident  with  the  turmoil  in  Ethio- 
pia, temporarily  altered  the  balance  of  power  between  the  two  coun- 
tries. In  1976-77  Somalia  attempted  to  take  advantage  of  the 
situation  by  supporting  a  guerrilla  campaign  by  the  Western  Somali 
Liberation  Front  (WSLF),  a  pro-Somali  liberation  group  in  the 
Ogaden,  to  seize  the  Ogaden  from  Ethiopia.  By  the  late  summer 
of  1977,  Somali  armored  forces  and  mechanized  infantry  supported 
by  aircraft  had  invaded  the  Ogaden,  capturing  60  percent  of  the 
disputed  territory  within  several  weeks. 

Meanwhile,  the  Soviet  Union  had  started  supporting  the  Marxist- 
Leninist  regime  that  had  emerged  in  Ethiopia  while  simultaneously 
attempting  to  maintain  Somalia  as  a  client  state.  After  its  attempts 
at  mediation  failed,  the  Soviet  Union  decided  to  abandon  Soma- 
lia. In  August  1977,  the  Soviet  Union  suspended  arms  shipments 
to  Siad  Barre's  regime  and  accelerated  military  deliveries  to  Ethio- 
pia. Three  months  later,  Somalia  renounced  the  Treaty  of  Friend- 
ship and  Cooperation,  expelled  all  Soviet  advisers,  broke  diplomatic 
relations  with  Cuba,  and  ejected  all  Soviet  personnel  from  Somalia. 

Following  Moscow's  decision  to  support  Addis  Ababa,  Ethio- 
pia received  massive  amounts  of  Soviet  arms.  Along  with  Soviet 
military  advisers,  about  15,000  Cuban  combat  troops  also  arrived. 
By  early  1978,  this  aid  had  turned  the  tide  of  war  in  Ethiopia's 
favor.  By  March  9,  1978,  when  Siad  Barre  announced  the  with- 
drawal of  the  Somali  armed  forces  from  the  Ogaden,  the  Somali 
military  had  lost  8,000  men — one-third  of  the  SNA,  three-quarters 
of  its  armored  units,  and  half  of  the  Somali  Air  Force  (SAF). 

For  all  intents  and  purposes,  Ethiopia's  victory  during  the 
Ogaden  War  ended  Mogadishu's  dream  of  recreating  Greater 
Somalia.  Even  before  the  setback  in  the  Ogaden,  Siad  Barre  had 
relinquished  his  claim  to  Djibouti  after  95  percent  of  the  voters 
in  that  country  indicated  a  preference  for  independence  over 


183 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

incorporation  into  Somalia.  In  1981  Somali-Kenyan  relations  im- 
proved after  Siad  Barre  visited  Nairobi  and  indicated  that  his 
government  no  longer  had  any  claim  to  Kenyan  territory.  In  De- 
cember 1984,  Somalia  and  Kenya  signed  a  pact  that  pledged  both 
governments  to  cease  hostilities  along  their  common  frontier.  Sub- 
sequently, the  level  of  insurgent  activity  along  the  border  was 
minimal.  However,  the  activities  of  Somali  shiftas,  or  bandits,  and 
ivory  poachers  and  the  periodic  influx  of  Somali  refugees  into  Kenya 
continued  to  strain  relations  between  Mogadishu  and  Nairobi. 

The  Ogaden  War:  Performance  and  Implications  of  Defeat 

The  SNA  never  recovered  from  its  defeat  in  the  Ogaden  War. 
The  battles  to  retake  and  then  defend  the  Ogaden  stripped  the 
Somali  armed  forces  of  many  troops,  much  of  their  equipment, 
and  their  Soviet  patron.  For  the  next  decade,  the  SNA  sought  un- 
successfully to  improve  its  capability  by  relying  on  a  variety  of  for- 
eign sources,  including  the  United  States.  The  Ogaden  War 
therefore  remains  the  best  example  of  the  SNA's  ability  to  mount 
and  sustain  conventional  military  operations. 

Before  the  Ogaden  War,  the  most  striking  feature  of  the 
23,000-man  SNA  had  been  its  large  armored  force,  which  was 
equipped  with  about  250  T-34  and  T-54/T-55  Soviet-built  medi- 
um tanks  and  more  than  300  armored  personnel  carriers.  This 
equipment  gave  the  SNA  a  tank  force  more  than  three  times  as 
large  as  Ethiopia's.  The  prewar  SAF  also  was  larger  than  Ethio- 
pia's air  force.  In  1976  the  SAF  had  fifty- two  combat  aircraft, 
twenty-four  of  which  were  Soviet-built  supersonic  MiG-21s.  Fac- 
ing them  was  an  Ethiopian  Air  Force  (EAF)  of  thirty-five  to  forty 
aircraft.  Ethiopia  also  was  in  the  process  of  acquiring  several  United 
States-built  Northrop  F-5  fighters  from  Iran.  At  the  outbreak  of 
fighting,  Ethiopia  had  approximately  sixteen  F-5A/Es. 

As  chaos  spread  throughout  Ethiopia  after  Haile  Selassie's  down- 
fall, Mogadishu  increased  its  support  to  several  pro-Somali  liber- 
ation groups  in  the  Ogaden,  the  strongest  of  which  was  the  WSLF. 
By  late  1975,  the  WSLF  had  attacked  many  Ethiopian  outposts 
in  the  Ogaden.  In  June  1977,  Addis  Ababa  accused  Mogadishu 
of  committing  SNA  units  to  the  fighting.  Despite  considerable  evi- 
dence to  the  contrary,  Somalia  denied  this  charge  and  insisted  that 
only  "volunteers"  had  been  given  leave  from  the  SNA  to  fight  with 
the  WSLF.  By  late  1977,  the  combined  WSLF-SNA  strength  in 
the  Ogaden  probably  approached  50,000,  of  which  15,000  appeared 
to  be  irregulars. 

After  the  Somali  government  committed  the  SNA  to  the  Ogaden, 
the  conflict  ceased  to  be  a  guerrilla  action  and  assumed  the  form 


184 


National  Security 


of  a  conventional  war  in  which  armor,  mechanized  infantry,  and 
air  power  played  decisive  roles.  The  SNA  quickly  adapted  its  or- 
ganization to  battlefield  realities.  The  centralized  Somali  logistics 
system  controlled  supplies  at  battalion  level  (600-  to  1,000-man 
units)  from  Mogadishu,  an  unwieldy  arrangement  given  Soma- 
lia's limited  transportation  and  communications  network  (see 
Transportation;  Communications,  ch.  3).  To  facilitate  operations, 
the  logistics  center  and  headquarters  for  forces  fighting  in  the  north- 
ern Ogaden  moved  to  Hargeysa,  the  SNA's  northern-sector  head- 
quarters. Before  the  war,  all  Somali  ground  forces  had  been 
organized  into  battalions.  After  the  conflict  started,  however,  the 
standard  infantry  and  mechanized  infantry  unit  became  the  brigade, 
composed  of  two  to  four  battalions  and  having  a  total  strength  of 
1,200  to  2,000  personnel. 

During  the  summer  of  1977,  the  SNA-WSLF  force  achieved 
several  victories  but  also  endured  some  significant  defeats.  In  July 
1977,  it  captured  Gode,  on  the  Shabeelle  River  about  550  kilome- 
ters inside  Ethiopia,  and  won  control  of  60  percent  of  the  Ogaden. 
By  mid-September  1977,  Ethiopia  conceded  that  90  percent  of  the 
Ogaden  was  in  Somali  hands.  The  SNA  suffered  two  setbacks  in 
August  when  it  tried  to  capture  Dire  Dawa  and  Jijiga.  The  Ethio- 
pian army  inflicted  heavy  losses  on  the  SNA  at  Dire  Dawa  after 
a  Somali  attack  by  one  tank  battalion  and  a  mechanized  infantry 
brigade  supported  by  artillery  units.  At  Jijiga  the  Somalis  lost  more 
than  half  of  their  attacking  force  of  three  tank  battalions,  each  of 
which  included  more  than  thirty  tanks. 

Somalia's  greatest  victory  occurred  in  mid-September  1977  in 
the  second  attempt  to  take  Jijiga,  when  three  tank  battalions  over- 
whelmed the  Ethiopian  garrison.  After  inflicting  some  heavy  loss- 
es on  Somali  armor,  Ethiopian  troops  mutinied  and  withdrew  from 
the  town,  leaving  its  defense  to  the  militia,  which  was  incapable 
of  slowing  the  Somali  advance.  The  Ethiopians  retreated  beyond 
the  strategic  Marda  Pass,  the  strongest  defensive  position  between 
Jijiga  and  Harer,  leaving  the  SNA  in  a  commanding  position  with- 
in the  region.  Despite  this  success,  several  factors  prevented  a  Somali 
victory.  Somali  tank  losses  had  been  heavy  in  the  battles  around 
Dire  Dawa  and  Jijiga.  Moreover,  because  the  EAF  had  established 
air  superiority  over  the  SAF,  it  could  harass  overextended  Somali 
supply  lines  with  impunity.  The  onset  of  the  rainy  season  ham- 
pered such  air  attacks;  however,  the  bad  weather  also  bogged  down 
Somali  reinforcements  on  the  dirt  roads. 

The  Soviet  Union's  decision  to  abandon  Somalia  in  favor  of  Ethi- 
opia eventually  turned  the  tide  of  battle  in  the  Ogaden.  From  Octo- 
ber 1977  through  January  1978,  about  20,000  WSLF  guerrillas 


185 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

and  SNA  forces  pressed  attacks  on  Harer,  where  nearly  50,000 
Ethiopians  had  regrouped,  backed  by  Soviet-supplied  armor  and 
artillery  and  gradually  reinforced  by  11,000  Cubans  and  1,500 
Soviet  advisers.  Although  it  fought  its  way  into  Harer  in  Novem- 
ber 1977,  the  SNA  lacked  the  supplies  and  manpower  to  capture 
the  city.  Subsequently,  the  Somalis  regrouped  outside  Harer  and 
awaited  an  Ethiopian  counterattack. 

As  expected,  in  early  February  1978  Ethiopian  and  Cuban  forces 
launched  a  two-stage  counterattack  toward  Jijiga.  Unexpectedly, 
however,  a  column  of  Cubans  and  Ethiopians  moving  north  and 
east  crossed  the  highlands  between  Jijiga  and  the  Somali  border, 
bypassing  Somali  troops  dug  in  around  the  Marda  Pass.  Thus,  the 
attacking  force  was  able  to  assault  the  Somalis  from  two  sides  and 
recapture  Jijiga  after  two  days  of  fighting  in  which  3,000  Somali 
troops  lost  their  lives.  Within  a  week,  Ethiopia  had  retaken  all  of 
the  Ogaden's  major  towns.  On  March  9,  1978,  Siad  Barre  recalled 
the  SNA  from  Ethiopia. 

After  the  SNA  withdrawal,  the  WSLF  reverted  to  guerrilla  tac- 
tics. By  May  1980,  the  rebels  had  established  control  over  a  sig- 
nificant portion  of  the  Ogaden.  Eventually,  Ethiopia  defeated  the 
WSLF  and  the  few  small  SNA  units  that  remained  in  the  region 
after  the  Somali  pullout.  In  late  1981,  however,  reports  indicated 
that  the  WSLF  continued  to  conduct  occasional  hit-and-run  attacks 
against  Ethiopian  targets. 

Postwar  Status  of  the  Armed  Forces 

In  the  early  1980s,  the  Somali  armed  forces  had  to  adjust  to  the 
realities  of  their  defeat  in  the  Ogaden  War.  Somali  manpower  had 
doubled  during  the  conflict,  but  the  Ethiopian  army  had  destroyed 
a  significant  amount  of  Somali  equipment.  Shortages  of  military 
hardware,  inadequate  maintenance,  and  lack  of  spare  parts  for  what 
remained  of  Soviet-supplied  equipment  limited  the  effectiveness 
of  all  units.  Better  relations  between  Somalia  and  the  United  States 
resolved  some  of  these  problems.  Between  1983  and  1986,  United 
States  military  assistance  to  Somalia  averaged  US$36  to  US$40 
million  per  year  (see  Foreign  Military  Assistance,  this  ch.).  This 
aid  was  insufficient,  however,  to  restore  the  Somali  armed  forces 
to  their  pre-Ogaden  War  effectiveness. 

As  insurgent  activity  intensified  during  the  late  1980s  and  the 
Somali  government  failed  to  develop  additional  sources  of  large- 
scale  military  assistance,  the  armed  forces  slowly  deteriorated.  By 
1990  the  Somali  military  was  in  a  state  of  collapse.  After  Siad  Barre 
fled  Mogadishu  in  January  1991,  the  SNA  and  all  related  military 
and  security  services  ceased  to  exist.  Most  of  their  military  equipment 


186 


National  Security 


fell  into  the  hands  of  insurgents,  clan  militiamen,  or  bandits.  The 
status  of  former  military  and  security  personnel  varied.  Some  fled 
abroad  to  countries  such  as  Kenya  or  Ethiopia;  others  returned 
to  civilian  life  or  became  insurgents,  bandits,  or  clan  militia  mem- 
bers. A  small  number  remained  loyal  to  Siad  Barre,  who  took  refuge 
in  southern  Somalia  and  then  launched  a  military  campaign  to 
regain  power.  The  campaign  failed,  however,  and  Siad  Barre  sought 
exile  in  Nigeria,  where  he  remained  in  early  1992. 

Internal  Security  Concerns 

Somalia  has  a  long  history  of  internal  instability;  in  some  in- 
stances, clan  feuds  have  lasted  more  than  a  century.  Most  of  this 
turmoil  has  been  associated  with  disagreements  and  factionalism 
between  and  among  the  major  branches  of  the  Somali  lineage  sys- 
tem, which  includes  pastoral  nomads  such  as  the  Dir,  Daarood, 
Isaaq,  and  Hawiye,  and  agriculturalists  such  as  the  Digil  and  Ra- 
hanwayn  (see  The  Segmentary  Social  Order,  ch.  2).  In  more  re- 
cent times,  these  historical  animosities  have  expressed  themselves 
through  the  emergence  of  clan-based  dissident  and  insurgent  move- 
ments. Most  of  these  groups  grew  to  oppose  Siad  Barre 's  regime 
because  the  president  refused  to  make  political  reforms,  unleashed 
a  reign  of  terror  against  the  country's  citizenry,  and  concentrated 
power  in  the  hands  of  his  Mareehaan  clan  (the  Mareehaan  belonged 
to  the  Daarood  clan-family).  After  Siad  Barre  fled  Mogadishu  in 
January  1991 ,  the  Somali  nation- state  collapsed,  largely  along  war- 
ring clan  lines. 

Government  Security  Policy 

In  the  aftermath  of  the  1969  coup,  the  central  government 
acquired  control  of  all  legislative,  administrative,  and  judicial 
functions.  The  only  legally  permitted  party  was  the  Somali  Revolu- 
tionary Socialist  Party  (SRSP).  In  April  1970,  Siad  Barre  autho- 
rized the  creation  of  National  Security  Courts  (NSCs),  which  shortly 
thereafter  tried  approximately  sixty  people:  leaders  of  the  previ- 
ous government,  businessmen,  lawyers,  and  senior  military  per- 
sonnel who  had  failed  to  support  the  coup  (see  Courts,  ch.  4).  In 
September  1970,  the  Supreme  Revolutionary  Council  (SRC) 
proclaimed  that  any  person  who  harmed  the  nation's  unity,  peace, 
or  sovereignty  could  be  sentenced  to  death.  The  government  also 
promised  to  punish  anyone  who  spread  false  propaganda  against 
Siad  Barre 's  regime. 

Until  the  early  1980s,  the  Siad  Barre  regime  generally  shunned 
capital  punishment  in  favor  of  imprisonment  and  reeducation  of 
actual,  suspected,  or  potential  opponents.  The  earlier  parliamentary 


187 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

government  had  been  able  to  hold  people  without  trial  up  to  ninety 
days  during  a  state  of  emergency,  but  the  military  government  re- 
moved most  legal  restrictions  on  preventive  detention.  After  the 
coup,  a  local  revolutionary  council  or  the  National  Security  Ser- 
vice (NSS)  could  detain  individuals  regarded  as  dangerous  to  peace, 
order,  good  government,  or  the  aims  and  spirit  of  the  revolution 
(see  Intelligence  Service;  Human  Rights,  this  ch.).  Additionally, 
regional  governors  could  order  the  search  and  arrest  of  persons  sus- 
pected of  a  crime  or  of  activities  considered  threatening  to  public 
order  and  security,  and  could  requisition  property  or  services 
without  compensation.  In  1974  the  government  began  to  require 
all  civil  servants  to  sign  statements  of  intent  to  abide  by  security 
regulations.  Furthermore,  any  contact  between  foreigners  and 
Somali  citizens  had  to  be  reported  to  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Af- 
fairs. By  the  late  1970s,  most  Somalis  were  ignoring  this  latter  regu- 
lation. 

The  Somali  government  became  more  repressive  after  an  un- 
successful 1971  coup.  Officials  maintained  that  the  coup  attempt 
by  some  SRC  members  had  sought  to  protect  the  interests  of  the 
trading  bourgeoisie  and  the  tribal  structure.  Many  expected  that 
the  conspirators  would  receive  clemency.  Instead,  the  government 
executed  them.  Many  Somalis  found  this  act  inconsistent  with  Is- 
lamic principles  and  as  a  consequence  turned  against  Siad  Barre's 
regime. 

During  its  first  years  in  power,  the  SRC  sought  to  bolster  na- 
tionalism by  undermining  traditional  Somali  allegiance  to  Islamic 
religious  leaders  and  clan  groups.  Although  it  tried  to  avoid  en- 
tirely alienating  religious  leaders,  the  government  restricted  their 
involvement  in  politics.  During  the  early  1970s,  some  Islamic  lead- 
ers affirmed  that  Islam  could  never  coexist  with  scientific  social- 
ism; however,  Siad  Barre  claimed  that  the  two  concepts  were 
compatible  because  Islam  propagated  a  classless  society  based  on 
egalitarianism. 

In  the  mid-1970s,  the  government  tried  to  eliminate  a  rallying 
point  for  opposition  by  substituting  allegiance  to  the  nation  for  tradi- 
tional allegiance  to  family  and  clan.  Toward  this  end,  the  authori- 
ties stressed  individual  responsibility  for  all  offenses,  thereby 
undermining  the  concept  of  collective  responsibility  that  existed 
in  traditional  society  and  served  as  the  basis  of  dfcj^-paying  (see  Glos- 
sary) groups.  The  government  also  abolished  traditional  clan  leader- 
ship responsibilities  and  titles  such  as  sultan  and  shaykh. 

By  the  late  1980s,  it  was  evident  that  Siad  Barre  had  failed  to 
create  a  sense  of  Somali  nationalism.  Moreover,  he  had  been  un- 
able to  destroy  the  family  and  clan  loyalties  that  continued  to  govern 


188 


National  Security 


the  lives  of  most  Somalis.  As  antigovernment  activities  escalated, 
Siad  Barre  increasingly  used  force  and  terror  against  his  opponents. 
This  cycle  of  violence  further  isolated  his  regime,  caused  dissent 
within  the  SNA,  and  eventually  precipitated  the  collapse  of  his 
government. 

Sources  of  Opposition 

From  1969  until  the  mid-1970s,  Siad  Barre 's  authoritarian  re- 
gime enjoyed  a  degree  of  popular  support,  largely  because  it  acted 
with  a  decisiveness  not  displayed  by  the  civilian  governments  of 
the  1960s.  Even  the  1971  coup  attempt  failed  to  affect  the  stability 
of  the  government.  However,  Somalia's  defeat  in  the  Ogaden  War 
signaled  the  beginning  of  a  decline  in  Siad  Barre 's  popularity  that 
culminated  in  his  January  1991  fall  from  power. 

Before  the  war,  many  Somalis  had  criticized  Siad  Barre  for  not 
trying  to  reincorporate  the  Ogaden  into  Somalia  immediately  af- 
ter Ethiopian  emperor  Haile  Selassie's  death  in  1975.  The  govern- 
ment was  unable  to  stifle  this  criticism  largely  because  the  Somali 
claim  to  the  Ogaden  had  overwhelming  national  support.  The  re- 
gime's commitment  of  regular  troops  to  the  Ogaden  proved  high- 
ly popular,  as  did  Siad  Barre 's  expulsion  of  the  Soviet  advisers, 
who  had  been  resented  by  most  Somalis.  However,  Somalia's  defeat 
in  the  Ogaden  War  refocused  criticism  on  Siad  Barre. 

After  the  spring  1978  retreat  toward  Hargeysa,  Siad  Barre  met 
with  his  generals  to  discuss  the  battlefield  situation,  and  ordered 
the  execution  of  six  of  them  for  activities  against  the  state.  This 
action  failed  to  quell  SNA  discontent  over  Siad  Barre 's  handling 
of  the  war  with  Ethiopia.  On  April  9,  1978,  a  group  of  military 
officers  (mostly  Majeerteen)  attempted  a  coup  d'etat.  Government 
security  forces  crushed  the  plot  within  hours  and  subsequently  ar- 
rested seventy-four  suspected  conspirators.  After  a  month-long  series 
of  trials,  the  authorities  imprisoned  thirty- six  people  associated  with 
the  coup  and  executed  another  seventeen. 

After  the  war,  it  was  evident  that  the  ruling  alliance  among  the 
Mareehaan,  Ogaden,  and  Dulbahante  clans  had  been  broken.  The 
Ogaden — the  clan  of  Siad  Barre 's  mother,  which  had  the  most  direct 
stake  in  the  war — broke  with  the  regime  over  the  president's  war- 
time leadership.  To  prevent  further  challenges  to  his  rule,  Siad  Barre 
placed  members  of  his  own  clan  in  important  positions  in  the 
government,  the  armed  forces,  the  security  services,  and  other  state 
agencies. 

Throughout  the  late  1970s,  growing  discontent  with  the  regime's 
policies  and  personalities  prompted  the  defection  of  numerous 
government  officials  and  the  establishment  of  several  insurgent 


189 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

movements.  Because  unauthorized  political  activity  was  prohibit- 
ed, these  organizations  were  based  abroad.  The  best  known  was 
the  Somali  Salvation  Front  (SSF),  which  operated  from  Ethiopia. 
The  SSF  had  absorbed  its  predecessor,  the  Somali  Democratic  Ac- 
tion Front  (SODAF),  which  had  been  formed  in  Rome  in  1976. 
Former  minister  of  justice  Usmaan  Nur  Ali  led  the  Majeerteen- 
based  SODAF.  Lieutenant  Colonel  Abdillaahi  Yuusuf  Ahmad,  a 
survivor  of  the  1978  coup  attempt,  commanded  the  SSF.  Other 
prominent  SSF  personalities  included  former  minister  of  educa- 
tion Hasan  Ali  Mirreh  and  former  ambassador  Muse  Islan  Faarah. 
The  SSF,  which  received  assistance  from  Ethiopia  and  Libya, 
claimed  to  command  a  guerrilla  force  numbering  in  the  thousands. 
Ethiopia  placed  a  radio  transmitter  at  the  SSF's  disposal  from  which 
Radio  Kulmis  (unity)  beamed  anti-Siad  Barre  invective  to  listeners 
in  Somalia.  Although  it  launched  a  low-intensity  sabotage  cam- 
paign in  1981,  the  SSF  lacked  the  capabilities  to  sustain  effective 
guerrilla  operations  against  the  SNA. 

The  SSF's  weakness  derived  from  its  limited  potential  as  a  rally- 
ing point  for  opposition  to  the  government.  Although  the  SSF  em- 
braced no  ideology  or  political  philosophy  other  than  hostility  to 
Siad  Barre,  its  nationalist  appeal  was  undermined  by  its  reliance 
on  Ethiopian  support.  The  SSF  claimed  to  encompass  a  range  of 
opposition  forces,  but  its  leading  figures  belonged  with  few  excep- 
tions to  the  Majeerteen  clan. 

In  October  1981,  the  SSF  merged  with  the  radical-left  Somali 
Workers  Party  (SWP)  and  the  Democratic  Front  for  the  Libera- 
tion of  Somalia  (DFLS)  to  form  the  Somali  Salvation  Democratic 
Front  (SSDF).  The  SWP  and  DFLS,  both  based  in  Aden  (then 
the  capital  of  the  People's  Democratic  Republic  of  Yemen — South 
Yemen),  had  included  some  former  SRSP  Central  Committee 
members  who  faulted  Siad  Barre  for  compromising  Somalia's 
revolutionary  goals.  An  eleven-man  committee  led  the  SSDF. 
Yuusuf  Ahmad,  a  former  SNA  officer  and  head  of  the  SDF,  acted 
as  chairman;  former  SWP  leader  Idris  Jaama  Husseen  served  as 
vice  chairman;  Abdirahman  Aidid  Ahmad,  former  chairman  of 
the  SRSP  Ideology  Bureau  and  founding  father  of  the  DFLS,  was 
secretary  for  information.  The  SSDF  promised  to  intensify  the  mili- 
tary and  political  struggles  against  the  Siad  Barre  regime,  which 
was  said  to  have  destroyed  Somali  unity  and  surrendered  to  Unit- 
ed States  imperialism.  Like  the  SSF,  the  SSDF  suffered  from  weak 
organization,  a  close  identification  with  its  Ethiopian  and  Libyan 
benefactors,  and  its  reputation  as  a  Majeerteen  party. 

Despite  its  shortcomings,  the  SSDF  played  a  key  role  in  fight- 
ing between  Somalia  and  Ethiopia  in  the  summer  of  1982.  After 


190 


National  Security 


an  SNA  force  infiltrated  the  Ogaden,  joined  with  the  WSLF,  and 
attacked  an  Ethiopian  army  unit  outside  Shilabo,  about  150  kilo- 
meters northwest  of  Beledweyne,  Ethiopia  retaliated  by  launching 
an  operation  against  Somalia.  On  June  30,  1982,  Ethiopian  army 
units,  together  with  SSDF  guerrillas,  struck  at  several  points  along 
Ethiopia's  southern  border  with  Somalia.  They  crushed  the  SNA 
unit  in  Balumbale  and  then  occupied  that  village.  In  August  1982, 
the  Ethiopian/SSDF  force  took  the  village  of  Goldogob,  about  50 
kilometers  northwest  of  Galcaio.  After  the  United  States  provided 
emergency  military  assistance  to  Somalia,  the  Ethiopian  attacks 
ceased.  However,  the  Ethiopian/SSDF  units  remained  in  Balum- 
bale and  Goldogob,  which  Addis  Ababa  maintained  were  part  of 
Ethiopia  that  had  been  liberated  by  the  Ethiopian  army.  The  SSDF 
disputed  the  Ethiopian  claim,  causing  a  power  struggle  that  even- 
tually resulted  in  the  destruction  of  the  SSDF's  leadership. 

On  October  12,  1985,  Ethiopian  authorities  arrested  Ahmad  and 
six  of  his  lieutenants  after  they  repeatedly  indicated  that  Balum- 
bale and  Goldogob  were  part  of  Somalia.  The  Ethiopian  govern- 
ment justified  the  arrests  by  saying  that  Ahmad  had  refused  to 
comply  with  a  SSDF  Central  Committee  decision  relieving  him 
as  chairman.  Mahammad  Abshir,  a  party  bureaucrat,  then  assumed 
command  of  the  SSDF.  Under  his  leadership,  the  SSDF  became 
militarily  moribund,  primarily  because  of  poor  relations  with  Ad- 
dis Ababa.  In  August  1986,  the  Ethiopian  army  attacked  SSDF 
units,  then  launched  a  war  against  the  movement,  and  finally  jailed 
its  remaining  leaders.  For  the  next  several  years,  the  SSDF  exist- 
ed more  in  name  than  in  fact.  In  late  1990,  however,  after  Ethio- 
pia released  former  SSDF  leader  Ahmad,  the  movement  reemerged 
as  a  fighting  force  in  Somalia,  albeit  to  a  far  lesser  degree  than 
in  the  early  1980s. 

In  April  1981 ,  a  group  of  Isaaq  emigres  living  in  London  formed 
the  Somali  National  Movement  (SNM),  which  subsequently  be- 
came the  strongest  of  Somalia's  various  insurgent  movements.  Ac- 
cording to  its  spokesmen,  the  rebels  wanted  to  overthrow  Siad 
Barre's  dictatorship.  Additionally,  the  SNM  advocated  a  mixed 
economy  and  a  neutral  foreign  policy,  rejecting  alignment  with  the 
Soviet  Union  or  the  United  States  and  calling  for  the  dismantling 
of  all  foreign  military  bases  in  the  region.  In  the  late  1980s,  the 
SNM  adopted  a  pro-Western  foreign  policy  and  favored  United 
States  involvement  in  a  post-Siad  Barre  Somalia.  Other  SNM  ob- 
jectives included  establishment  of  a  representative  democracy  that 
would  guarantee  human  rights  and  freedom  of  speech.  Eventual- 
ly, the  SNM  moved  its  headquarters  from  London  to  Addis  Ababa 


191 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

to  obtain  Ethiopian  military  assistance,  which  initially  was  limit- 
ed to  old  Soviet  small  arms. 

In  October  1981,  the  SNM  rebels  elected  Ahmad  Mahammad 
Culaid  and  Ahmad  Ismaaiil  Abdi  as  chairman  and  secretary  gener- 
al, respectively,  of  the  movement.  Culaid  had  participated  in  north- 
ern Somali  politics  until  1975,  when  he  went  into  exile  in  Djibouti 
and  then  in  Saudi  Arabia.  Abdi  had  been  politically  active  in  the 
city  of  Burao  in  the  1950s,  and,  from  1965  to  1967,  had  served 
as  the  Somali  government's  minister  of  planning.  After  the  authori- 
ties jailed  him  in  1971  for  antigovernment  activities,  Abdi  left  Soma- 
lia and  lived  in  East  Africa  and  Saudi  Arabia.  The  rebels  also  elected 
an  eight-man  executive  committee  to  oversee  the  SNM's  military 
and  political  activities. 

On  January  2,  1982,  the  SNM  launched  its  first  military  opera- 
tion against  the  Somali  government.  Operating  from  Ethiopian 
bases,  commando  units  attacked  Mandera  Prison  near  Berbera  and 
freed  a  group  of  northern  dissidents.  According  to  the  SNM,  the 
assault  liberated  more  than  700  political  prisoners;  subsequent  in- 
dependent estimates  indicated  that  only  about  a  dozen  government 
opponents  escaped.  At  the  same  time,  other  commando  units  raided 
the  Cadaadle  armory  near  Berbera  and  escaped  with  an  undeter- 
mined amount  of  arms  and  ammunition. 

Mogadishu  responded  to  the  SNM  attacks  by  declaring  a  state 
of  emergency,  imposing  a  curfew,  closing  gasoline  stations  to  civilian 
vehicles,  banning  movement  in  or  out  of  northern  Somalia,  and 
launching  a  search  for  the  Mandera  prisoners  (most  of  whom  were 
never  found).  On  January  8,  1982,  the  Somali  government  also 
closed  its  border  with  Djibouti  to  prevent  the  rebels  from  fleeing 
Somalia.  These  actions  failed  to  stop  SNM  military  activities. 

In  October  1982,  the  SNM  tried  to  increase  pressure  against 
the  Siad  Barre  regime  by  forming  a  joint  military  committee  with 
the  SSDF.  Apart  from  issuing  antigovernment  statements,  the  two 
insurgent  groups  started  broadcasting  from  the  former  Radio  Kul- 
mis  station,  now  known  as  Radio  Halgan  (struggle).  Despite  this 
political  cooperation,  the  SNM  and  SSDF  failed  to  agree  on  a  com- 
mon strategy  against  Mogadishu.  As  a  result,  the  alliance  lan- 
guished. 

In  February  1983,  Siad  Barre  visited  northern  Somalia  in  a  cam- 
paign to  discredit  the  SNM.  Among  other  things,  he  ordered  the 
release  of  numerous  civil  servants  and  businessmen  who  had  been 
arrested  for  antigovernment  activities,  lifted  the  state  of  emergen- 
cy, and  announced  an  amnesty  for  Somali  exiles  who  wanted  to 
return  home.  These  tactics  put  the  rebels  on  the  political  defen- 
sive for  several  months.  In  November  1983,  the  SNM  Central 


192 


National  Security 


Committee  sought  to  regain  the  initiative  by  holding  an  emergency 
meeting  to  formulate  a  more  aggressive  strategy.  One  outcome  was 
that  the  military  wing — headed  by  Abdulqaadir  Kosar  Abdi,  for- 
merly of  the  SNA — assumed  control  of  the  Central  Committee  by 
ousting  the  civilian  membership  from  all  positions  of  power. 
However,  in  July  1984,  at  the  Fourth  SNM  Congress,  held  in  Ethio- 
pia, the  civilians  regained  control  of  the  leadership.  The  delegates 
also  elected  Ahmad  Mahammad  Mahamuud  "Silanyo"  SNM 
chairman  and  reasserted  their  intention  to  revive  the  alliance  with 
the  SSDF. 

After  the  Fourth  SNM  Congress  adjourned,  military  activity  in 
northern  Somalia  increased.  SNM  commandos  attacked  about  a 
dozen  government  military  posts  in  the  vicinity  of  Hargeysa,  Burao, 
and  Berbera.  According  to  the  SNM,  the  SNA  responded  by  shoot- 
ing 300  people  at  a  demonstration  in  Burao,  sentencing  7  youths 
to  death  for  sedition,  and  arresting  an  unknown  number  of  rebel 
sympathizers.  In  January  1985,  the  government  executed  twenty- 
eight  people  in  retaliation  for  antigovernment  activity. 

Between  June  1985  and  February  1986,  the  SNM  claimed  to 
have  carried  out  thirty  operations  against  government  forces  in 
northern  Somalia.  In  addition,  the  SNM  reported  that  it  had  killed 
476  government  soldiers  and  wounded  263,  and  had  captured  eleven 
vehicles  and  had  destroyed  another  twenty- two,  while  losing  only 
thirty-eight  men  and  two  vehicles.  Although  many  independent 
observers  said  these  figures  were  exaggerated,  SNM  operations  dur- 
ing the  1985-86  campaign  forced  Siad  Barre  to  mount  an  interna- 
tional effort  to  cut  off  foreign  aid  to  the  rebels.  This  initiative 
included  reestablishment  of  diplomatic  relations  with  Libya  in  ex- 
change for  Tripoli's  promise  to  stop  supporting  the  SNM. 

Despite  efforts  to  isolate  the  rebels,  the  SNM  continued  mili- 
tary operations  in  northern  Somalia.  Between  July  and  Septem- 
ber 1987,  the  SNM  initiated  approximately  thirty  attacks,  including 
one  on  the  northern  capital,  Hargeysa;  none  of  these,  however, 
weakened  the  government's  control  of  northern  Somalia.  A  more 
dramatic  event  occurred  when  an  SNM  unit  kidnapped  a  Mede- 
cins  Sans  Frontieres  medical  aid  team  of  ten  Frenchmen  and  one 
Djiboutian  to  draw  the  world's  attention  to  Mogadishu's  policy 
of  impressing  men  from  refugee  camps  into  the  SNA.  After  ten 
days,  the  SNM  released  the  hostages  unconditionally. 

Siad  Barre  responded  to  these  activities  by  instituting  harsh  secu- 
rity measures  throughout  northern  Somalia.  The  government  also 
evicted  suspected  pro-SNM  nomad  communities  from  the  Somali- 
Ethiopian  border  region.  These  measures  failed  to  contain  the 
SNM.  By  February  1988,  the  rebels  had  captured  three  villages 


193 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

around  Togochale,  a  refugee  camp  near  the  northwestern  Somali- 
Ethiopian  border. 

Following  the  rebel  successes  of  1987-88,  Somali-Ethiopian  re- 
lations began  to  improve.  On  March  19,  1988,  Siad  Barre  and 
Ethiopian  president  Mengistu  Haile-Mariam  met  in  Djibouti  to 
discuss  ways  of  reducing  tension  between  the  two  countries. 
Although  little  was  accomplished,  the  two  agreed  to  hold  further 
talks.  At  the  end  of  March  1988,  the  Ethiopian  minister  of  foreign 
affairs,  Berhanu  Bayih,  arrived  in  Mogadishu  for  discussions  with 
a  group  of  Somali  officials,  headed  by  General  Ahmad  Mahamuud 
Faarah.  On  April  4,  1988,  the  two  presidents  signed  a  joint  com- 
munique in  which  they  agreed  to  restore  diplomatic  relations,  ex- 
change prisoners  of  war,  start  a  mutual  withdrawal  of  troops  from 
the  border  area,  and  end  subversive  activities  and  hostile  propagan- 
da against  each  other. 

Faced  with  a  cutoff  of  Ethiopian  military  assistance,  the  SNM 
had  to  prove  its  ability  to  operate  as  an  independent  organization. 
Therefore,  in  late  May  1988  SNM  units  moved  out  of  their  Ethio- 
pian base  camps  and  launched  a  major  offensive  in  northern  Soma- 
lia. The  rebels  temporarily  occupied  the  provincial  capitals  of  Burao 
and  Hargeysa.  These  early  successes  bolstered  the  SNM's  popu- 
lar support,  as  thousands  of  disaffected  Isaaq  clan  members  and 
SNA  deserters  joined  the  rebel  ranks. 

Over  the  next  few  years,  the  SNM  took  control  of  almost  all  of 
northwestern  Somalia  and  extended  its  area  of  operations  about 
fifty  kilometers  east  of  Erigavo.  However,  the  SNM  did  not  gain 
control  of  the  region's  major  cities  (i.e.,  Berbera,  Hargeysa,  Burao, 
and  Boorama),  but  succeeded  only  in  laying  siege  to  them. 

With  Ethiopian  military  assistance  no  longer  a  factor,  the  SNM's 
success  depended  on  its  ability  to  capture  weapons  from  the  SNA. 
The  rebels  seized  numerous  vehicles  such  as  Toyota  Land  Cruis- 
ers from  government  forces  and  subsequently  equipped  them  with 
light  and  medium  weapons  such  as  12.7mm  and  14.5mm  machine 
guns,  106mm  recoilless  rifles,  and  BM-21  rocket  launchers.  The 
SNM  possessed  antitank  weapons  such  as  Soviet  B-10  tubes  and 
RPG-7s.  For  air  defense,  the  rebels  operated  Soviet  30mm  and 
23mm  guns,  several  dozen  Soviet  ZU23  2s,  and  Czech-made  twin- 
mounted  30mm  ZU30  2s.  The  SNM  also  maintained  a  small  fleet 
of  armed  speed  boats  that  operated  from  Maydh,  fifty  kilometers 
northwest  of  Erigavo,  and  Xiis,  a  little  west  of  Maydh.  Small  arms 
included  120mm  mortars  and  various  assault  rifles,  such  as  AK-47s, 
M-16s,  and  G-3s.  Despite  these  armaments,  rebel  operations,  es- 
pecially against  the  region's  major  cities,  suffered  because  of  an 


194 


National  Security 


inadequate  logistics  system  and  a  lack  of  artillery,  mine-clearing 
equipment,  ammunition,  and  communications  gear. 

To  weaken  Siad  Barre's  regime  further,  the  SNM  encouraged 
the  formation  of  other  clan-based  insurgent  movements  and  provid- 
ed them  with  political  and  military  support.  In  particular,  the  SNM 
maintained  close  relations  with  the  United  Somali  Congress  (USC), 
which  was  active  in  central  Somalia,  and  the  Somali  Patriotic  Move- 
ment (SPM),  which  operated  in  southern  Somalia.  Both  these 
groups  sought  to  overthrow  Siad  Barre's  regime  and  establish  a 
democratic  form  of  government. 

The  USC,  a  Hawiye  organization  founded  in  1989,  had  suffered 
from  factionalism  based  on  subclan  rivalries  since  its  creation. 
General  Mahammad  Faarah  Aidid  commanded  the  Habar  Gidir 
clan,  and  Ali  Mahdi  Mahammad  headed  the  Abgaal  clan.  The  SPM 
emerged  in  March  1989,  after  a  group  of  Ogaden  officers,  led  by 
Umar  Jess,  deserted  the  SNA  and  took  up  arms  against  Siad  Barre. 
Like  the  USC,  the  SPM  experienced  a  division  among  its  ranks. 
The  moderates,  under  Jess,  favored  an  alliance  with  the  SNM  and 
USC  and  believed  that  Somalia  should  abandon  its  claims  to  the 
Ogaden.  SPM  hardliners  wanted  to  recapture  the  Ogaden  and  fa- 
vored a  stronger  military  presence  along  the  Somali-Ethiopian 
border. 

On  November  19,  1989,  the  SNM  and  SPM  issued  a  joint  com- 
munique announcing  the  adoption  of  a  "unified  stance  on  inter- 
nal and  external  political  policy."  On  September  12,  1990,  the 
SNM  concluded  a  similar  agreement  with  the  USC.  Then,  on 
November  24,  1990,  the  SNM  announced  that  it  had  united  with 
the  SPM  and  the  USC  to  pursue  a  common  military  strategy  against 
the  SNA.  Actually,  the  SNM  had  concluded  the  unification  agree- 
ment with  Aidid,  which  widened  the  rift  between  the  two  USC 
factions. 

By  the  beginning  of  1991 ,  all  three  of  the  major  rebel  organiza- 
tions had  made  significant  military  progress.  The  SNM  had  all  but 
taken  control  of  northern  Somalia  by  capturing  the  towns  of  Har- 
geysa,  Berbera,  Burao,  and  Erigavo.  On  January  26,  1991,  the 
USC  stormed  the  presidential  palace  in  Mogadishu,  thereby  es- 
tablishing its  control  over  the  capital.  The  SPM  succeeded  in  over- 
running several  government  outposts  in  southern  Somalia. 

The  SNM-USC-SPM  unification  agreement  failed  to  last  after 
Siad  Barre  fled  Mogadishu.  On  January  26,  1991,  the  USC  formed 
an  interim  government,  which  the  SNM  refused  to  recognize.  On 
May  18,  1991,  the  SNM  declared  the  independence  of  the  Republic 
of  Somaliland.  The  USC  interim  government  opposed  this  decla- 
ration, arguing  instead  for  a  unified  Somalia.  Apart  from  these 


195 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


political  disagreements,  fighting  broke  out  between  and  within  the 
USC  and  SPM.  The  SNM  also  sought  to  establish  its  control  over 
northern  Somalia  by  pacifying  clans  such  as  the  Gadabursi  and 
the  Dulbahante.  To  make  matters  worse,  guerrilla  groups  prolifer- 
ated; by  late  1991 ,  numerous  movements  vied  for  political  power, 
including  the  United  Somali  Front  (Iise),  Somali  Democratic  Al- 
liance (Gadabursi),  United  Somali  Party  (Dulbahante),  Somali 
Democratic  Movement  (Rahanwayn),  and  Somali  National  Front 
(Mareehaan).  The  collapse  of  the  nation-state  system  and  the  emer- 
gence of  clan-based  guerrilla  movements  and  militias  that  became 
governing  authorities  persuaded  most  Western  observers  that  na- 
tional reconciliation  would  be  a  long  and  difficult  process. 

History  and  Development  of  the  Armed  Forces 

Since  independence,  the  Somali  military  establishment  had  un- 
dergone several  changes.  From  the  early  1960s  to  1977,  the  period 
when  good  relations  existed  between  Somalia  and  the  Soviet  Un- 
ion, the  Somali  military  had  the  largest  armored  and  mechanized 
forces  in  sub-Saharan  Africa,  and  the  SAF  and  the  Somali  navy 
were  among  the  region's  best.  However,  the  outbreak  of  the 
1977-78  Ogaden  War  and  the  withdrawal  of  Soviet  military  ad- 
visers and  technicians  had  a  crippling  effect  on  the  Somali  mili- 
tary. After  the  emergence  of  the  United  States-Somalia  alliance, 
Mogadishu  reorganized  the  army  so  that  it  would  be  based  on  in- 
fantry, rather  than  on  mechanized  forces.  As  part  of  this  restruc- 
turing, the  military's  overall  personnel  strength  grew  from  about 
23,000 — the  size  of  the  military  during  the  Ogaden  War — to  ap- 
proximately 50,000  in  1981,  and  about  65,000  in  early  1990.  But 
by  late  1990,  the  Somali  military  establishment  was  in  a  state  of 
disintegration.  In  large  part  because  of  dismay  at  Somalia's  increas- 
ingly poor  human  rights  record,  foreign  military  assistance  had  been 
reduced  to  a  minimum.  Desertions  and  battlefield  defeats  had 
caused  a  decline  in  the  military's  personnel  strength  to  about  10,000. 
By  the  time  insurgent  forces  took  the  capital  in  January  1991,  the 
Somali  military  had  ceased  to  exist  as  a  fighting  force. 

The  Warrior  Tradition  and  Development  of  a  Modern  Army 

Historically,  Somali  society  accorded  prestige  to  the  warrior 
(waranle — see  Glossary)  and  rewarded  military  prowess.  Except  for 
a  man  of  religion  (wadad;  pi.,  wadaddo — see  Glossary),  and  they 
were  few  in  number,  all  Somali  males  were  considered  potential 
warriors.  As  a  result,  a  culture  of  military  readiness  flourished 
throughout  a  long  history  of  foreign  invasion,  colonial  occupation, 
domestic  conflict,  and  wars  with  neighboring  countries. 


196 


Street  scene,  Mogadishu 
Mogadishu  scene  reflecting  damage  from  civil  war,  1991 

Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 


197 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Warfare  always  had  been  an  important  factor  in  relations  with 
outsiders  such  as  the  Ethiopian  Christians  and  the  Oromo  and  even 
with  other  Somali  clans.  The  lack  of  modern  weapons,  however, 
prevented  the  Somalis  from  successfully  resisting  the  imposition 
of  European  colonial  rule.  Antagonists  in  intra-Somali  conflicts 
generally  belonged  to  groups  bound  by  their  commitment  to  pay 
or  receive  diya.  Because  the  entire  group  would  be  considered 
responsible  for  paying  diya  to  compensate  for  damages  inflicted, 
and  would  receive  diya  for  its  own  losses,  a  war  would  begin  only 
with  the  unanimous  approval  of  its  likely  participants.  A  meeting 
of  the  elders  of  the  warring  groups  was  the  usual  means  of  restor- 
ing peace.  The  elders  would  determine  which  group  was  responsi- 
ble for  starting  the  war  and  would  decide  compensation,  usually 
livestock,  for  damages  incurred.  The  group  judged  responsible  for 
starting  the  war  normally  would  be  the  only  one  fined  unless  it 
emerged  the  victor.  In  a  jihad  (holy  war)  against  infidels  and  in 
most  conflicts  against  non- Somalis,  such  rules  would  not  apply. 

The  number  of  warriors  who  belonged  to  each  party  tradition- 
ally determined  the  strength  of  rival  clans  and  diya-paying  groups. 
However,  after  the  introduction  of  firearms  in  the  Horn  of  Africa 
in  the  late  nineteenth  century,  firepower  became  the  primary  de- 
terminant. Although  Somalis  may  have  used  matchlock  guns  as 
early  as  the  sixteenth  century,  firearms  became  numerous  in  the 
region  only  in  the  1890s,  when  various  European  nations  and  arms 
merchants  began  supplying  them  to  Ethiopian  emperor  Menelik 
II.  Shipped  through  the  port  of  Djibouti,  some  of  these  weapons 
fell  into  Somali  hands  and  came  into  use  against  the  Ethiopians 
and  the  British  in  Sayyid  Mahammad  Abdille  Hasan's  1899-1920 
jihad.  After  1920  the  Italian  and  British  colonial  governments  pur- 
sued a  policy  of  disarming  Somali  nomads.  For  several  years  be- 
fore independence,  however,  nomads  frequently  were  more  heavily 
armed  than  the  colonial  forces  responsible  for  maintaining  public 
order. 

In  1884  Britain  declared  a  protectorate  over  northern  Somaliland. 
During  its  first  sixteen  years,  the  colonial  administration  relied  on 
naval  landing  parties,  detachments  from  the  Aden  garrison,  and 
a  small  local  police  force  to  maintain  order.  The  emergence  in  1900 
of  Mahammad  Abdille  Hasan  (the  ''Mad  Mullah")  and  his  band 
of  about  3,000  dervishes  represented  the  first  serious  challenge  to 
colonial  rule  in  British  Somaliland  (see  Sayyid  Mahammad' s  Der- 
vish Resistance  to  Colonial  Occupation,  ch.  1).  In  response,  the 
British  deployed  to  Berbera  the  Central  Africa  Rifles,  2d  Battal- 
ion, which  included  16  British  officers,  1  British  warrant  officer, 


198 


National  Security 


30  Sikh,  and  862  African  troops,  to  prevent  Hasan  from  crossing 
into  British  Somaliland  from  his  base  in  eastern  Ethiopia. 

After  the  battalion  left  Somalia  in  December  1900,  Captain 
EJ.E.  Swayne  raised  the  Somali  Levy,  a  force  that  included  1,000 
infantry  and  500  mounted  men  commanded  by  20  British  officers 
and  50  Punjabi  havildars  (drill  instructors).  Armed  with  Enfield  ri- 
fles, swords,  bayonets,  and  Maxim  guns,  the  Somali  Levy  was  one 
of  the  region's  best  trained  military  units.  In  1901  the  British 
redesignated  the  Somali  Levy  as  the  6th  King's  African  Rifles 
(KAR).  They  disbanded  the  unit  in  1902,  reactivated  it  in  1903, 
reorganized  it  in  1904,  and  converted  it  to  an  all-Indian  unit  in 
1905,  when  the  colonial  administration  started  drafting  Somalis 
into  a  new  standing  militia. 

Between  1900  and  1904,  the  British  launched  four  unsuccessful 
campaigns  against  Hasan.  After  1904  Hasan  moved  to  Italian 
Somaliland.  When  he  returned  to  the  British  sphere  in  1909,  the 
colonial  administration  reinforced  the  6th  KAR  with  an  Indian  bat- 
talion; the  standing  militia  and  300  police  also  supported  military 
operations  against  Hasan.  In  1910,  after  failing  to  defeat  Hasan, 
the  British  relinquished  control  of  the  interior,  withdrew  to  the  coast, 
and  disbanded  the  6th  KAR  and  the  standing  militia. 

For  the  next  two  years,  British  administrators  in  Somaliland  ar- 
gued for  a  more  assertive  policy.  Finally,  in  June  1912  the  British 
government  approved  the  formation  of  the  150-man  Camel  Corps, 
which  operated  within  an  eighty-kilometer  radius  of  Berbera  to 
counter  Hasan's  hit-and-run  tactics.  There  also  were  320  Aden 
troops  and  200  Indians  from  a  disbanded  contingent  of  the  6th  KAR 
to  support  the  Camel  Corps. 

Just  before  the  outbreak  of  World  War  I,  the  British  reorganized 
the  protectorate's  military  establishment.  The  Camel  Corps  be- 
came the  Somaliland  Camel  Corps.  The  British  also  increased  the 
unit's  size  by  enlisting  450  Somalis,  with  a  150-man  Somaliland 
Indian  Contingent  in  reserve.  The  authorities  organized  this  force 
into  two  camel  companies  and  one  cavalry  company;  eighteen  Brit- 
ish officers  seconded  from  the  Indian  and  regular  armies  command- 
ed the  force.  A  400-man  Somaliland  Indian  Contingent  (less  150 
assigned  to  the  Somaliland  Camel  Corps)  and  a  temporary  garri- 
son of  400  Indian  infantrymen  completed  the  protectorate's  military. 

In  1920  a  combined  British  land  and  air  offensive — which  in- 
cluded the  Somaliland  Camel  Corps,  Somaliland  Police,  and  ele- 
ments from  the  2d  and  6th  KAR  and  an  Indian  battalion — finally 
defeated  Hasan's  army.  Despite  this  defeat,  many  Somalis  con- 
tinued to  hail  Hasan  as  a  warrior  hero  and  the  source  of  modern 
Somali  nationalism.  In  1923  the  colonial  authorities  attached  the 


199 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Somaliland  Camel  Corps  to  the  KAR.  The  unit,  whose  nucleus 
remained  non-Somali,  relied  on  Yao  askaris  (East  African  native 
soldiers)  from  the  1st  KAR  to  fill  its  ranks.  In  the  early  1930s,  the 
Somaliland  Camel  Corps  consisted  of  one  camel  and  one  pony  com- 
pany, both  staffed  by  Somalis,  and  one  Yao  mechanized  infantry 
company. 

In  1940  Italian  forces  overran  British  Somaliland,  which  had  been 
defended  by  the  Somaliland  Camel  Corps  and  five  British,  Indi- 
an, and  African  battalions.  Before  withdrawing  from  Somaliland, 
the  British  disbanded  the  Somaliland  Camel  Corps.  After  defeat- 
ing the  Italians  in  1941,  the  British  reformed  the  Somaliland  Camel 
Corps  and  created  two  battalions,  the  71st  and  72d  (Somali)  KAR 
battalions,  both  of  which  eventually  were  disbanded  after  World 
War  II.  In  1943  the  colonial  authorities  converted  the  Somaliland 
Camel  Corps  into  an  armored  car  regiment.  The  following  year, 
elements  in  this  unit  mutinied;  as  a  result,  the  British  permanent- 
ly disbanded  the  Somaliland  Camel  Corps. 

The  history  of  Somalia's  postcolonial  armed  forces  began  in  1941, 
when  the  British  formed  an  irregular  force  known  as  the  Somali 
Prisoner  of  War  Guards.  The  next  year,  the  colonial  authorities 
renamed  the  unit  the  Somali  Companies;  in  1943  the  British  redesig- 
nated the  unit  as  the  Somaliland  Scouts.  During  the  war,  the  Brit- 
ish used  this  force  to  maintain  lines  of  communication  and  patrol 
the  colony's  frontiers.  After  1945  the  Somaliland  Scouts,  which 
never  belonged  to  the  KAR,  performed  internal  security  duties. 
In  1960  the  British  assigned  the  Somaliland  Scouts  to  Somalia's 
independent  government;  the  unit  subsequentiy  formed  the  nucleus 
of  the  Somali  National  Army  (SNA). 

On  the  eve  of  independence,  the  provisional  government  in  the 
Italian-administered  trust  territory  requested  permission  from  the 
United  Nations  (UN)  Trusteeship  Council  to  establish  a  national 
army  to  protect  its  borders.  The  UN  agreed,  and,  a  few  months 
before  independence,  the  provisional  government  created  a  small 
army  from  the  Somali  Police  Force's  Mobile  Group  (Darawishta 
Poliska — commonly  known  as  the  Darawishta).  At  the  time,  the 
trust  territory  joined  with  British  Somaliland  to  form  the  Somali 
Republic,  troops  from  the  Darawishta  combined  with  those  of  the 
Somaliland  Scouts  to  form  the  5,000-man  SNA.  Its  first  commander 
was  Colonel  Daud  Abdullaahi  Hersi,  who  had  served  in  the  Somalia 
Gendarmerie,  the  British  Military  Administration's  police  force. 
He  was  succeeded  at  his  death  in  1965  by  Siad  Barre. 

Even  before  the  1969  coup,  the  SNA  played  a  central  role  in 
the  foreign  policy  process.  Although  the  1961  constitution  renounced 


200 


National  Security 


war  as  a  means  of  settling  international  disputes,  it  also  urged  the 
amalgamation  of  Somali-inhabited  territories  in  Ethiopia,  Djibouti, 
and  Kenya  into  a  Greater  Somalia.  The  government  also  deployed 
the  SNA  in  support  of  Somali  irredentism  in  Ethiopia. 

The  SNA  was  battle- tested  in  1964  when  the  conflict  with  Ethio- 
pia over  the  Somali-inhabited  Ogaden  erupted  into  warfare.  On 
June  16,  1963,  Somali  guerrillas  started  an  insurgency  at  Hodayo, 
in  eastern  Ethiopia,  a  watering  place  north  of  Werder,  after  Ethio- 
pian emperor  Haile  Selassie  rejected  their  demand  for  self- 
government  in  the  Ogaden.  The  Somali  government  initially  re- 
fused to  support  the  guerrilla  forces,  which  eventually  numbered 
about  3,000.  However,  in  January  1964,  after  Ethiopia  sent  rein- 
forcements to  the  Ogaden,  Somali  forces  launched  ground  and  air 
attacks  across  the  Ethiopian  border  and  started  providing  assistance 
to  the  guerrillas.  The  EAF  responded  with  punitive  strikes  across 
its  southwestern  frontier  against  Feerfeer,  northeast  of  Beledweyne, 
and  Galcaio.  On  March  6,  1964,  Somalia  and  Ethiopia  agreed  to 
a  cease-fire;  at  the  end  of  the  month,  the  two  sides  signed  an  ac- 
cord in  Khartoum,  Sudan,  agreeing  to  withdraw  their  troops  from 
the  border,  cease  hostile  propaganda,  and  start  peace  negotiations. 
Somalia  also  terminated  its  support  of  the  guerrillas. 

Despite  its  failure  to  incorporate  the  Ogaden  into  a  Greater  Soma- 
lia, the  SNA  continued  to  enjoy  widespread  support.  In  the  late 
1960s,  for  example,  most  Somalis  believed  that  the  SNA  was  less 
influenced  by  clan  divisions  and  corruption  than  the  civilian  sec- 
tor. The  military  also  had  succeeded  in  integrating  British-  and 
Italian-trained  units  more  rapidly  than  had  civilian  institutions. 
The  armed  forces,  moreover,  maintained  contact  with  the  people 
through  civic-action  projects  and  public  relations  programs.  An 
army- trained,  quasi-military  youth  group  called  the  Young  Pioneers 
worked  in  several  agricultural  and  construction  projects  connect- 
ed with  national  development  ventures. 

The  SNA's  reputation  soared  during  the  early  stages  of  the 
1977-78  Ogaden  War.  After  Ethiopia  defeated  Somalia,  however, 
public  support  for  the  military  waned.  As  opposition  to  Siad  Barre's 
regime  intensified,  the  SNA  became  more  and  more  isolated.  Dur- 
ing the  late  1980s,  various  international  human  rights  organiza- 
tions accused  the  armed  forces  of  committing  crimes  against 
civilians,  dissidents,  and  government  opponents.  Cosdy  counter- 
insurgency  campaigns  in  northern,  central,  and  southern  Somalia 
gradually  sapped  the  military's  strength.  After  Siad  Barre  fled 
Mogadishu  in  January  1991,  the  SNA  ceased  to  exist.  As  of  mid- 
1992,  although  the  SNM  and  the  USC  had  announced  their  in- 
tention to  reconstitute  professionally  trained  national  armies  in  their 


201 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

respective  areas  of  operation — northern  and  south-central  Soma- 
lia, respectively,  no  progress  had  been  made  toward  this  goal.  A 
lack  of  resources  and  expertise,  however,  would  almost  certainly 
prevent  both  groups  from  achieving  their  objectives  over  the  short 
term. 

The  Armed  Forces  in  National  Life 

The  armed  forces  traditionally  had  enjoyed  considerable  pres- 
tige in  Somali  society.  The  military's  early  popularity  was  reflect- 
ed in  the  fact  that  its  numbers  were  maintained  without  resort  to 
conscription.  Chronic  manpower  shortages,  however,  compelled 
the  government  to  institute  a  draft  in  1984  (see  Manpower,  Train- 
ing, and  Conditions  of  Service,  this  ch.).  For  most  of  its  post- 
independence  history,  the  military  had  been  involved  in  conflicts 
against  its  neighbors  or  against  domestic  insurgent  groups. 

The  Military  and  the  Government 

During  most  of  Somalia's  early  postindependence  history,  the 
SNA  stayed  out  of  politics.  The  only  exception  occurred  in  1961, 
when  a  group  of  British-trained  officers  who  objected  to  Italian  in- 
fluence on  the  military  attempted  to  overthrow  the  government. 
In  1969  the  SNA's  apolitical  stance  changed  when  Major  General 
Mahammad  Siad  Barre  seized  power.  After  abolishing  the  National 
Assembly  of  the  Republic,  he  established  the  SRC,  which  was  made 
up  of  military  and  police  officers.  This  military  junta  relied  on  the 
largely  civilian  Council  of  the  Secretaries  of  State  to  administer 
many  of  the  country's  ministries. 

To  enhance  its  image,  the  SRC  intervened  in  nearly  every  aspect 
of  Somali  society.  To  reduce  government  corruption,  Siad  Barre 
instituted  a  nationwide  campaign  to  make  civil  servants  accounta- 
ble. He  also  appointed  a  police  general  to  head  the  Ministry  of 
Interior,  which  controlled  the  means  of  enforcing  government  de- 
cisions and  appointing  military  personnel  to  senior  positions  in  dis- 
trict and  provincial  offices  and  in  Somali  embassies.  In  1971  the 
SRC  ordered  senior  civil  servants  to  attend  a  three-month  course 
at  Camp  Halane,  Mogadishu,  where  they  wore  military  uniforms 
and  underwent  military  training.  The  military  junta  also  recruit- 
ed young  men  and  women  into  a  paramilitary  organization  called 
Victory  Pioneers  (see  People's  Militia,  this  ch.).  In  the  foreign  policy 
arena,  Siad  Barre  adopted  an  anti-United  States  stance,  ordered 
the  Peace  Corps  out  of  the  country,  and  accused  Washington  of 
imperialism. 

In  1976  the  government  consolidated  its  power  by  creating  the 
Somali  Revolutionary  Socialist  Party  (SRSP),  which  emerged  as 


202 


Donkey  carts  passing  United  Nations  refugee  relief  truck  damaged  in 

crossfire,  1991 

War-damaged  houses  in  Hargeysa,  a  major  city  in  northern  Somalia,  1991 

Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 


203 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

the  basis  for  political  authority.  Furthermore,  Siad  Barre  allowed 
the  NSS  to  jail  or  harass  dissidents,  suppress  freedom  of  speech, 
and  create  an  atmosphere  of  fear  and  suspicion  throughout  Soma- 
lia. In  1980  a  constitutional  amendment  empowered  the  SRC  to 
resolve  all  state  security  and  national  interest  issues  during  a 
declared  state  of  emergency. 

Opposition  to  Siad  Barre 's  dictatorship  increased  during  the  mid- 
and  late  1980s  (see  Sources  of  Opposition,  this  ch.).  An  increas- 
ing number  of  Somalis  perceived  the  government  and  the  nation's 
armed  forces  as  enemies  of  the  people.  Siad  Barre' s  refusal  to  in- 
stitute reforms  and  include  more  people  in  the  political  process  even- 
tually led  to  his  downfall  and  the  dissolution  of  the  armed  forces. 

The  Military  and  the  Economy 

Under  the  Siad  Barre  regime,  the  army  command,  in  conjunc- 
tion with  the  Ministry  of  Defense,  annually  assessed  the  military's 
needs.  The  Ministry  of  Defense  then  passed  budget  recommenda- 
tions to  Siad  Barre,  who  made  final  budget  decisions. 

With  the  formation  of  the  SNA,  the  cost  of  maintaining  the  mili- 
tary establishment  became  the  largest  item  in  the  national  budget. 
During  the  first  decade  after  independence,  military  expenditure 
increased  at  an  average  rate  of  more  than  9  percent  a  year;  more- 
over, defense  costs  consistently  exceeded  the  combined  amounts 
budgeted  for  health  and  education. 

Between  1961  and  1979,  Somalia  imported  approximately 
US$660  million  in  arms.  During  this  same  period,  the  SNA's  per- 
sonnel strength  increased  from  4,000  to  54,000.  Although  precise 
figures  were  unavailable,  Somalia's  military  expenditures  totaled 
about  US$44.5  million  annually  for  the  1980-90  decade. 

Mission,  Organization,  and  Strength 

Since  independence  the  armed  forces'  mission  has  been  to  pro- 
tect the  country's  territorial  integrity  from  foreign  aggression  and 
to  maintain  internal  security.  In  1990  the  defense  establishment 
consisted  mainly  of  ground  forces.  Organizationally  it  was  com- 
posed of  the  SNA  and  its  subordinate  air,  air  defense,  and  naval 
elements.  The  military  command  structure  extended  from  Siad 
Barre,  president  and  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces, 
through  the  minister  of  defense  to  commanders  who  exercised 
authority  over  forces  stationed  in  the  country's  six  military  sectors. 

The  ground  forces  were  organized  into  twelve  divisions.  Allo- 
cated among  the  divisions  were  four  tank  brigades,  forty-five 
mechanized  and  infantry  brigades,  four  commando  brigades,  one 


204 


National  Security 


surface-to-air  missile  brigade,  three  field  artillery  brigades,  thirty 
field  battalions,  and  one  air  defense  battalion. 

Military  equipment  was  a  mixture  of  old  weapons  of  Soviet  and 
United  States  origin,  none  of  which  could  have  withstood  an  at- 
tack from  the  better  armed  Ethiopian  forces.  Serviceability  of  all 
types  of  equipment  was  extremely  poor,  largely  because  of  inade- 
quate maintenance  capability.  As  a  result,  foreign  military  advisers 
or  technicians  performed  nearly  all  maintenance  tasks.  Included 
in  the  SNA  inventory  were  Centurion,  M-41,  M-47,  T-34,  and 
T-54/T-55  tanks;  BRDM-2  and  AML-90  reconnaissance  vehi- 
cles; BTR-40/-50/-60/-152,  Fiat  6614/6616,  and  BMR-600  ar- 
mored personnel  carriers;  100mm,  105mm,  122mm,  and  155mm 
(M-198)  towed  artillery;  82mm  and  120mm  mortars;  Milan  TOW 
anti-tank  guided  weapons;  89mm  rocket  launchers;  and  106mm 
recoilless  rifles. 

The  Somali  Air  Force  (SAF),  initially  known  as  the  Somali  Aero- 
nautical Corps,  operated  most  of  its  aircraft  from  bases  near 
Mogadishu  and  Hargeysa.  Its  mission  was  to  support  ground  forces. 
Since  the  Ogaden  War,  the  SAF's  performance  had  been  hindered 
by  inadequate  equipment,  lack  of  spare  parts,  and  poor  main- 
tenance. During  the  late  1980s,  however,  the  SAF  managed  to 
deploy  some  of  its  fighter  aircraft  against  rebels  in  northern  Somalia. 
Some  of  these  aircraft  were  kept  operational  by  Zimbabwean  con- 
tract personnel.  In  1990  the  SAF  was  organized  into  three  fighter 
ground-attack  squadrons  equipped  with  J-6  and  Hawker  Hunter 
aircraft;  three  fighter  squadrons  equipped  with  MiG-21MF  and 
MiG-17  aircraft;  a  counterinsurgency  squadron  equipped  with 
SF-260W  aircraft;  a  transport  squadron  equipped  with  An-2, 
An-24,  An-26,  BN-2,  C-212,  and  G-222  aircraft;  and  a  helicop- 
ter squadron  equipped  with  Mi-4,  Mi-8,  and  Agusta-Bell  aircraft. 
The  SAF  also  possessed  a  variety  of  training  aircraft  such  as  the 
MiG-15UTI,  the  SF-260W,  the  Yak-11,  and  the  Cessna.  The  SAF 
used  Somali  Airlines  aircraft  to  ferry  troops  and  supplies  to  war 
zones. 

The  Air  Defense  Forces  consisted  of  seven  brigades,  four  of  which 
were  equipped  with  SA-2,  SA-3,  and  SA-7  surface-to-air  missiles, 
none  of  which  were  believed  to  be  operational  in  mid- 1992.  The 
inventories  of  the  other  three  units  included  20mm,  23mm,  37mm, 
40mm,  57mm,  and  100mm  air  defense  guns.  The  Air  Defense 
Forces  also  possessed  P-12,  P-30,  P-35,  P-15,  and  Westinghouse 
AN/TPS-43F  radars  with  AN/UPX-23  and  AN/UPA-59A  IFF. 

In  1965  the  Soviet  Union  helped  Somalia  establish  a  navy.  As 
part  of  its  mission  to  help  SNA  forces  maintain  coastal  security, 
the  navy  maintained  bases  at  Berbera,  Mogadishu,  and  Chisimayu, 


205 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

and  a  radar  site  at  Merca.  In  1990  the  naval  inventory  included 
two  Soviet  Osa-II  missile-armed  fast  attack  craft,  four  Soviet  Mol 
PFT  torpedo-armed  fast  attack  craft,  and  several  patrol  craft.  The 
Somali  navy  also  possessed  a  Soviet  Polnocny-class  landing  ship 
capable  of  carrying  five  tanks  and  120  soldiers,  and  four  smaller 
mechanized  landing  craft.  Much  of  this  equipment  had  been  un- 
serviceable since  the  departure  of  Soviet  military  personnel  in  1977. 
The  navy  was  not  operational  from  1991  onward. 

Paramilitary  forces,  which  reported  to  the  president  via  the 
minister  of  state,  supplemented  the  SNA.  These  included  a 
1,500-man  elite  border  guard;  the  20,000-man  People's  Militia; 
and  the  8,000-man  Somali  Police  Force  (SPF),  which  had  an  air 
unit  based  in  Mogadishu  consisting  of  two  Dornier  Do-28D2  air- 
craft, neither  of  which  was  believed  to  be  operational  in  mid- 1992 
(see  Somali  Police  Force,  this  ch.). 

In  the  early  1980s,  the  Somali  armed  forces  were  organized  and 
deployed  to  prevent  an  Ethiopian  attack.  By  the  end  of  the  decade, 
however,  the  military  concentrated  its  activities  on  maintaining  in- 
ternal security.  Antigovernment  resistance  originated  from  vari- 
ous clan-based  guerrilla  groups  that  defended  their  interests  against 
outsiders,  each  other,  and  Siad  Barre's  soldiers.  The  availabil- 
ity of  weapons  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  the  ability  to  obtain  mili- 
tary aid  from  foreign  nations  and  Somali  expatriate  communities 
enabled  the  rebels  to  wage  a  protracted  guerrilla  war  against 
Mogadishu. 

Manpower,  Training,  and  Conditions  of  Service 

Despite  the  social  and  economic  benefits  associated  with  mili- 
tary service,  the  Somali  armed  forces  began  to  suffer  chronic  man- 
power shortages  only  a  few  years  after  independence.  The 
government  attempted  to  solve  this  problem  by  instituting  obliga- 
tory military  service  in  1984.  Conscription  affected  men  from  eigh- 
teen to  forty  years  of  age  and  lasted  for  two  years.  Opposition  to 
conscription  and  to  the  counterinsurgency  campaigns  against  guer- 
rilla groups  resulted  in  widespread  evasion  of  military  service.  As 
a  result,  during  the  late  1980s  the  government  normally  met  man- 
power requirements  by  impressing  men  into  military  service.  This 
practice  alienated  an  increasing  number  of  Somalis  who  wanted 
the  government  to  negotiate  a  peaceful  resolution  of  the  conflicts 
that  were  slowly  destroying  Somali  society.  Traditionally,  the  Siad 
Barre  regime  had  followed  a  policy  of  mixing  recruits  from  differ- 
ent parts  of  the  country  in  order  to  cultivate  nationalism  among  the 
soldiers.  However,  as  the  ongoing  counterinsurgencies  further  iso- 
lated the  regime,  members  of  Siad  Barre's  subclan,  the  Mareehaan, 


206 


National  Security 


increasingly  dominated  senior  military  positions.  As  a  result,  by 
1990  many  Somalis  looked  upon  the  armed  forces  as  Siad  Barre's 
personal  army.  This  perception  eventually  destroyed  the  military's 
reputation  as  a  national  institution. 

Throughout  the  postindependence  period,  the  Somali  armed 
forces  relied  on  reserves  to  help  defend  national  security  and 
preserve  internal  stability.  In  1961,  for  example,  the  government 
created  the  Women's  Auxiliary  Corps.  Qualified  enlistees  under- 
went a  five-month  period  of  basic  training  and  instruction  in  typ- 
ing, record  keeping,  and  related  subjects.  During  their  two-year 
enlistment,  Somali  women  worked  in  a  variety  of  positions  associat- 
ed with  administration,  personnel,  and  military  welfare.  Most 
Women's  Auxiliary  Corps  personnel  served  in  army  headquar- 
ters in  Mogadishu  or  in  subordinate  headquarters  in  the  field. 

In  1964  border  clashes  with  Ethiopia  prompted  the  Somali 
government  to  authorize  the  organization  of  a  reserve  force.  The 
National  Assembly  therefore  passed  legislation  mobilizing  about 
2,000  volunteers  to  be  trained  by  the  army  at  special  camps  in  the 
regional  capitals.  After  determining  that  these  men  would  not  be 
needed  in  the  border  war,  Mogadishu  released  them  from  active 
duty.  Although  they  carried  identity  cards,  these  reservists  received 
neither  pay  nor  training  and  had  no  official  status. 

In  1967  the  Somali  authorities  established  a  Home  Guard  and 
called  up  3,000  men  for  six  months  of  training.  After  completing 
their  tours  of  duty,  they  received  discharges  and  joined  a  reserve 
pool.  The  government  then  called  another  3,000  men  for  the  next 
six  months. 

In  addition  to  the  reserve  forces,  irregulars  also  augmented  the 
military.  After  its  defeat  in  the  Ogaden  War,  Somalia  organized 
paramilitary  units  in  the  country's  many  refugee  communities. 
Mogadishu  also  encouraged  the  creation  of  clan  militias,  especial- 
ly among  Daarood  civilians.  The  SNA  trained  and  financed  both 
groups.  Additionally,  the  Somali  government  recruited  nomads  and 
Ogaden  refugees  into  the  WSLF,  the  insurgent  movement  that 
sought  to  regain  the  Ogaden  from  Ethiopia.  The  use  of  irregulars 
did  little  to  improve  Somalia's  military  capabilities;  indeed,  these 
groups  became  a  political  liability  to  Siad  Barre's  regime  because 
they  brutalized  large  numbers  of  civilians. 

The  Somali  armed  forces  always  had  depended  on  foreign  train- 
ing. Many  high-ranking  Somali  officers  had  served  in  the  British 
and  Italian  colonial  armies  and  some  had  received  training  at  Italian 
military  and  police  academies.  From  the  early  1960s  until  1977, 
the  Soviet  Union  provided  most  officer  training.  By  the  mid-1970s, 


207 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

as  many  as  60  percent  of  all  active-duty  officers  had  received  Soviet 
training.  The  SNA  used  Soviet  methods  of  organization  and  tactics. 

Beginning  in  the  early  1980s,  many  Somali  officers  started  at- 
tending one  of  two  military  schools  in  Mogadishu.  The  Siad  Barre 
Military  Academy  offered  general  instruction,  and  the  Ahmad  Gu- 
ray  War  College  was  a  staff  school  for  senior  officers.  Noncom- 
missioned officers  attended  the  General  Daoud  Military  Academy 
in  Chisimayu.  The  Weapons  School  provided  courses  in  special- 
ties such  as  field  artillery,  transportation,  and  communications. 
The  Somali  armed  forces  also  maintained  instruction  centers  for 
personnel  from  the  engineering,  railway,  and  paratroop-commando 
corps.  Despite  the  existence  of  these  academies  and  schools,  the 
Somali  military  relied  on  foreign  training  to  maintain  sophisticat- 
ed weapons  systems  and  to  improve  the  technical  and  leadership 
skills  of  its  personnel.  After  the  breakup  of  the  Somali- Soviet  alli- 
ance, the  SNA  largely  depended  on  the  United  States,  Saudi  Ara- 
bia, France,  and  Italy  for  such  training.  Following  the  fall  of  Siad 
Barre  in  January  1991  and  the  disintegration  of  the  armed  forces, 
military  training  ceased. 

Foreign  Military  Assistance 

Throughout  its  history,  Somalia  has  had  to  rely  on  foreign  sources 
to  equip  and  help  maintain  its  military  establishment.  During  the 
colonial  period,  Britain  and  Italy  relied  on  military  force  to  con- 
solidate their  respective  positions  in  Somalia.  These  two  nations 
then  established  and  outfitted  indigenous  military  units  to  help 
preserve  internal  security  in  their  spheres  of  influence. 

Shortly  after  independence,  Somalia  determined  that  its  national 
interests  required  development  of  a  20,000-man  army.  Because  of 
its  weak  economy,  however,  the  Somali  government  rarely  has  been 
able  purchase  materiel  outright.  Instead,  it  has  had  to  depend  on 
donor  countries  whose  assistance  has  been  motivated  by  their  own 
national  interests.  Somalia  initially  sought  support  from  the  United 
States.  However,  Washington  argued  that  a  5,000-man  army  would 
be  sufficient  to  maintain  Mogadishu's  internal  security.  Somali 
leadership,  determined  to  press  its  irredentist  claims  against  neigh- 
bors in  the  Horn  of  Africa,  therefore  looked  elsewhere  for  military 
assistance. 

In  1962  the  Soviet  Union  agreed  to  grant  a  US$32  million  loan 
to  modernize  the  Somali  army,  and  expand  it  to  14,000  person- 
nel. Moscow  later  increased  the  amount  to  US$55  million.  The 
Soviet  Union,  seeking  to  counter  United  States  influence  in  the 
Horn  of  Africa,  made  an  unconditional  loan  and  fixed  a  generous 
twenty-year  repayment  schedule. 


208 


National  Security 


During  the  rest  of  the  1960s,  the  Soviet  Union  provided  Soma- 
lia with  a  substantial  number  of  T-34  tanks,  armored  personnel 
carriers,  MiG-15  and  MiG-17  aircraft,  small  arms,  and  ammu- 
nition. Approximately  300  Soviet  military  advisers  deployed  to 
Somalia  to  train  the  army,  and  about  500  Somali  pilots,  officers, 
and  technicians  received  training  in  the  Soviet  Union.  Until  Siad 
Barre  seized  power  in  1969,  Somalia's  Western  orientation  and 
small  amounts  of  United  States  and  West  German  aid  to  the  Somali 
police  force  limited  the  impact  of  Soviet  military  assistance.  After 
the  coup,  however,  Siad  Barre  embraced  scientific  socialism,  and 
the  Soviet  Union  became  Somalia's  major  supplier  of  military 
materiel. 

Over  the  next  eight  years,  the  Somali-Soviet  military  relation- 
ship prospered.  In  1972  Defense  Minister  Andrei  Grechko  visited 
Somalia  and  signed  an  agreement  to  improve  and  modernize  the 
port  of  Berbera  in  return  for  Soviet  access  to  the  facility.  The  Soviet 
Union  eventually  built  Berbera  into  a  base  that  included  a  missile 
storage  facility  for  the  Soviet  navy,  an  airfield  with  runways  near- 
ly 5,000  meters  long  and  capable  of  handling  large  bombers,  and 
extensive  radar  and  communications  facilities.  Access  to  Berbera 
gave  the  Soviet  Union  a  presence  in  the  strategically  important  In- 
dian Ocean-Persian  Gulf  region  to  counter  United  States  military 
activities  in  the  area.  Berbera  acquired  additional  importance  when 
Egypt  expelled  all  Soviet  advisers  in  July  1972. 

After  signing  the  1974  Treaty  of  Friendship  and  Cooperation 
with  Moscow,  Mogadishu  started  taking  delivery  of  numerous 
sophisticated  weapon  systems,  including  MiG-21  jet  fighters,  T-54 
tanks,  a  SAM-2  missile  defense  system  for  Mogadishu,  and  modern 
torpedo  and  missile-armed  fast  attack  and  landing  craft  for  the  navy. 
Soviet  military  advisers  increased  in  number  to  about  1,500,  sup- 
plemented by  approximately  50  Cubans.  The  Soviet  Union  also 
trained  and  organized  the  Somali  army's  intelligence  apparatus  and 
the  NSS.  By  the  time  Siad  Barre  terminated  the  Treaty  of  Friend- 
ship and  Cooperation  with  Moscow  and  expelled  all  Soviet  advisers 
in  1977,  about  2,400  Somali  military  personnel  had  undergone 
training  in  the  Soviet  Union  and  another  150  in  Eastern  Europe. 

Somalia  also  relied  on  the  Muslim  world  for  military  assistance. 
Somalia's  ideological  ties  with  the  Islamic  world  reinforced  mutu- 
al interests  shared  with  several  Muslim  states,  most  notably  Egypt, 
Saudi  Arabia,  and  Iran,  and  provided  the  basis  for  military  cooper- 
ation. In  the  1960s,  Cairo  trained  the  Somali  army  and  navy. 

During  the  Ogaden  War,  Egypt  provided  approximately  US$30 
million  in  military  assistance  to  Siad  Barre 's  regime.  After  the  con- 
flict ended,  Egypt  supplied  ammunition  and  spare  parts  for  some 


209 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

of  Somalia's  Soviet-made  equipment,  such  as  T-54/T-55  tanks  and 
armored  personnel  carriers.  After  the  1982  renewal  of  hostilities 
between  Somalia  and  Ethiopia,  Egypt  delivered  T-54  and  T-55 
tanks,  37mm  antiaircraft  guns,  and  ammunition.  Thereafter,  Egypt 
furnished  more  spare  parts  for  Somalia's  Soviet-made  equipment, 
opened  its  military  schools  to  Somali  personnel,  and,  until  the  late 
1980s,  maintained  a  small  military  training  team  in  Somalia. 

Like  Egypt,  Saudi  Arabia  provided  military  assistance  to  Somalia 
in  an  effort  to  keep  that  country  stable,  conservative,  and  pro- 
Western.  After  Somalia  joined  the  League  of  Arab  States  (Arab 
League)  in  1974,  Saudi  Arabia,  supported  by  Iran,  tried  to  weaken 
the  Somali-Soviet  alliance  by  making  a  US$75  million  aid  pack- 
age contingent  on  a  reduction  of  Soviet  activities  in  Somalia.  When 
Siad  Barre  rejected  this  condition,  Riyadh  withdrew  the  offer.  When 
Somalia  broke  with  the  Soviet  Union  in  1977,  Saudi  Arabia  re- 
warded Somalia  by  paying  for  old  stocks  of  Egyptian  and  Sudanese 
weapons,  which  were  then  sent  to  Mogadishu.  Until  Siad  Barre 's 
downfall,  Riyadh  provided  Mogadishu  with  a  variety  of  weapons, 
including  armored  and  reconnaissance  vehicles,  small  arms,  and 
ammunition.  Additionally,  Saudi  Arabia  trained  SNA  personnel. 

Other  Middle  East  states  also  supplied  military  assistance  to 
Somalia.  During  the  Ogaden  War,  for  example,  Iraq,  Iran,  and 
Jordan  provided  small  arms  and  ammunition  to  the  SNA.  In  1982 
Kuwait  delivered  forty  Centurion  tanks  to  Somalia.  The  United 
Arab  Emirates  and  Oman  equipped  the  SAF  with  Hawker  Hun- 
ter fighters  and  Britten  Norman  Defender  transports.  Furthermore, 
funds  from  Islamic  states  enabled  the  acquisition  of  numerous 
weapons,  the  most  notable  of  which  was  China's  F-6  fighter-bomber 
in  1981. 

The  United  States  and  several  West  European  countries  refused 
to  supply  weapons  to  Somalia  as  long  as  that  country  remained 
close  to  the  Soviet  Union.  Once  it  became  clear  that  a  rift  had  de- 
veloped between  Somalia  and  the  Soviet  Union  because  of  the  lat- 
ter's  warming  relations  with  Ethiopia,  Washington  adopted  a  new 
policy  toward  Siad  Barre 's  regime.  On  July  26,  1977,  the  Depart- 
ment of  State  announced  that  the  United  States,  Britain,  and  France 
were  prepared  to  provide  arms  to  Somalia.  Approximately  one  year 
later,  however,  Washington  reversed  itself  because  of  Mogadishu's 
decision  to  use  military  force  to  try  to  incorporate  Ethiopia's  Ogaden 
region  into  Somalia.  According  to  the  United  States  and  most  West 
European  countries,  no  military  equipment  would  be  transferred 
to  Somalia  until  Mogadishu  withdrew  its  forces  from  the  Ogaden. 
Even  after  the  SNA  evacuated  the  Ogaden  and  Siad  Barre  promised 


210 


National  Security 


to  respect  the  boundaries  of  neighboring  states,  it  was  more  than 
two  years  before  the  United  States  provided  arms  to  Somalia. 

The  United  States  decision  to  begin  a  military  assistance  pro- 
gram in  Somalia  grew  out  of  Washington's  desire  to  bolster  its 
presence  in  the  Indian  Ocean-Persian  Gulf  region  after  Moham- 
mad Reza  Pahlavi,  the  shah  of  Iran,  fell  from  power  in  1979.  In 
August  1980,  Washington  and  Mogadishu  signed  an  agreement 
whereby  the  former  received  access  to  Somali  ports  and  airfields 
in  Berbera,  Mogadishu,  and  Chisimayu  in  exchange  for  provid- 
ing US$40  million  in  defensive  military  equipment  over  the  next 
two  years.  This  equipment  included  three  TPS-43  long-range  air 
defense  radars,  twelve  M-167  (towed)  Vulcan  20mm  air  defense 
guns,  and  associated  communications  gear,  spare  parts,  and  train- 
ing. The  agreement  did  not  become  official  until  February  1981 
because  of  insistence  by  the  United  States  Congress  on  the  veri- 
fied withdrawal  of  Somali  troops  from  the  Ogaden. 

Over  the  next  few  years,  the  United  States  increased  its  military 
assistance  to  Somalia.  In  1982,  for  example,  equipment  sales  and 
gifts  amounted  to  US$14.3  million;  on  July  24  of  that  year,  the 
United  States  responded  to  an  Ethiopian  attack  on  Somalia  by 
providing  the  Siad  Barre  regime  with  antitank  weapons,  radars, 
air  defense  guns,  small  arms,  and  ammunition.  In  1983  United 
States  military  aid  totaled  US$21.2  million;  in  1984,  US$24.3  mil- 
lion; in  1985,  US$80  million,  a  large  amount  of  which  included  air- 
transportable  155mm  M-198s;  in  1986,  US$40  million;  and  in  1987, 
approximately  US$37.1  million.  For  1981-84  United  States  For- 
eign Military  Sales  (FMS)  to  Somalia  included  US$57.15  million 
in  delivered  materiel,  US$60  million  financed  with  a  Department 
of  Defense  guarantee,  and  US$1,811  million  in  commercial  exports. 
During  this  same  period,  the  United  States  trained  126  Somali  mili- 
tary personnel  under  the  International  Military  Education  and  Train- 
ing (IMET)  program.  The  cost  of  the  training  came  to  more  than 
US$2.31  million.  Somalia  also  participated  in  the  United  States  Cen- 
tral Command  (USCENTCOM)  Operation  Bright  Star  exercises. 

After  the  SNM  launched  armed  attacks  in  northern  Somalia  in 
late  May  1988,  the  United  States  provided  Somalia  with  US$1.4 
million  worth  of  military  equipment,  which  consisted  of  1 ,200  Ml 6 
automatic  rifles  and  2  million  rounds  of  M16  ammunition,  300,000 
rounds  of  30-caliber  ammunition,  and  500,000  rounds  of  50-caliber 
ammunition.  Additionally,  the  Department  of  Defense  donated 
US$1  million  for  a  220-bed  hospital,  which  operated  in  Berbera 
to  help  victims  of  the  conflict. 

United  States  military  aid  to  Somalia  diminished  significantly  af- 
ter it  became  clear  that  Siad  Barre 's  regime  had  committed  human 


211 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

rights  violations  against  civilian  populations  in  northern  Somalia. 
Nevertheless,  according  to  official  United  States  statements,  the 
United  States  maintained  a  security  assistance  program  in  Soma- 
lia largely  to  protect  its  access  to  Somali  air  and  port  facilities; 
strengthen  the  Somalis'  ability  to  maintain  military  equipment  of 
United  States  origin;  encourage  national  reconciliation  through 
greater  concern  for  human  rights  and  civil  liberties,  military  re- 
straint, and  political  accommodation  with  the  opposition  elements; 
and  support  private- sector  revitalization.  Until  Siad  Barre's  down- 
fall, United  States  military  aid  to  Somalia  consisted  primarily  of 
technical  assistance  and  IMET  training. 

Starting  in  1978,  Italy  furnished  more  military  aid  to  Somalia 
than  any  other  Western  country.  This  aid  included  several  large 
shipments  of  Fiat  trucks,  which  formed  the  backbone  of  the  SNA's 
logistics  system  throughout  the  1980s.  Beginning  in  1979,  many 
Italian  companies,  assisted  by  government-subsidized  export  credits, 
supplied  aircraft  and  training  for  SAF  flight  and  ground  crews. 
The  aircraft  included  six  SIAI-Marchetti  SF-260W  single-engine 
trainer/tactical  support  aircraft,  four  Aeritalia  G-222  twin-engine 
transports,  and  two  Piaggio  166  transports.  Fiat  also  sold  light  tanks 
and  armored  cars  to  the  SNA.  By  1980  Italian  exports  to  Somalia 
amounted  to  US$124  million.  The  following  year,  Italian  foreign 
minister  Emilio  Colombo  visited  Mogadishu  and  signed  a  US$40 
million  aid  package.  Subsequently,  Italy  furnished  an  array  of  mili- 
tary equipment  to  Somalia,  including  armored  vehicles,  trucks, 
tanks,  helicopters,  small  arms,  and  ammunition.  In  July  1983,  Italy 
and  Somalia  signed  an  accord  that  provided  for  the  training  of 
Somali  military  personnel.  In  February  1985,  the  two  countries 
concluded  a  new  military  assistance  agreement.  Apart  from  this 
cooperation,  Italian  naval  ships  regularly  called  at  Mogadishu;  in 
May  1986,  for  example,  the  frigates  Scirocco  and  Grecale  made  a  five- 
day  visit  to  Somalia.  In  the  late  1980s,  Italy  started  rehabilitating 
the  SNA's  M-47  tanks;  however,  deteriorating  conditions  through- 
out Somalia  prevented  the  completion  of  this  program.  On  July 
11,  1990,  citing  delays  in  the  democratization  and  national  recon- 
ciliation processes,  Italy  announced  the  withdrawal  from  Somalia 
of  its  fifty-six  army  and  air  force  advisers  and  instructors. 

The  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany)  specialized 
in  aid  to  the  Somali  police  and  security  services.  Bonn  also  trained 
about  sixty  Somali  Army  Special  Forces  personnel  and  maintained 
a  technical  assistance  mission  with  the  police  air  wing  to  service 
the  Dornier  Do-28s.  Until  1985  West  Germany  had  delivered  ve- 
hicles and  radio  communications  equipment  valued  at  68  million 
deutsche  marks  (DM).  For  the  1985-87  period,  West  German  aid 


212 


National  Security 


amounted  to  DM12  million.  Like  other  Western  nations,  Bonn 
curtailed  its  military  assistance  to  Somalia  after  the  armed  forces 
started  committing  human  rights  violations  against  civilians. 

Cooperation  between  Somalia  and  China  started  before  the  break 
between  Mogadishu  and  Moscow.  It  was  not  until  1981,  however, 
that  Beijing  emerged  as  a  major  arms  supplier  to  Siad  Barre's  re- 
gime. Thereafter,  China  supplied  Somalia  with  an  array  of  weapon- 
ry, including  F-6  fighter-bombers  in  1981,  F-7  fighter-bombers 
in  1984,  artillery,  antiaircraft  guns,  rocket  launchers,  mortars,  small 
arms,  and  ammunition.  China  also  provided  technical  assistance 
to  the  Somali  armed  forces.  On  February  10,  1989,  Somalia  and 
China  signed  an  agreement  transferring  Somalia's  territorial  fish- 
ing rights  to  China  in  exchange  for  armament  credits.  Beijing  con- 
tinued to  provide  military  assistance  to  Mogadishu  until  the 
downfall  of  Siad  Barre's  regime. 

Since  the  mid-1980s,  there  had  been  numerous  unconfirmed 
reports  of  Somali-South  African  military  cooperation.  The  rela- 
tionship supposedly  began  on  December  18,  1984,  when  South  Afri- 
can foreign  minister  Roelof  "Pik"  Botha  visited  Somalia  and 
conducted  discussions  with  Siad  Barre.  The  two  leaders  reported- 
ly signed  a  secret  communique  granting  South  African  Airways 
landing  rights  in  Somalia  and  the  South  African  navy  access  to 
the  ports  of  Chisimayu  and  Berbera.  It  was  said  that  Somalia  also 
agreed  to  sell  South  Africa  eight  MiG-21  fighters.  In  exchange, 
South  Africa  reportedly  promised  to  provide  Somalia  with  Soviet- 
built  equipment,  including  tanks,  captured  in  Angola  and  Mozam- 
bique. South  Africa  supposedly  arranged  to  ship  spare  parts  and 
ammunition  for  the  Hawker  Hunter  aircraft  supplied  to  Somalia 
by  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  and  to  be  responsible  for  the  salar- 
ies of  ten  former  Rhodesian  Air  Force  pilots  who  already  were  in 
Somalia  helping  to  train  Somali  pilots  and  technicians  and  flying 
combat  missions  in  the  north.  Despite  Mogadishu's  repeated  denials 
of  a  military  link  with  Pretoria,  rumors  of  a  Somali-South  African 
alliance  continued  to  surface  until  the  downfall  of  Siad  Barre's 
regime. 

The  outbreak  of  the  SNM  insurgency  in  mid- 1988  and  the 
drying-up  of  traditional  sources  of  foreign  military  assistance  per- 
suaded Siad  Barre  to  seek  arms  from  Libya.  On  October  7,  1988, 
a  Libyan  Arab  Airlines  jet  reportedly  delivered  nerve  gas  to  Soma- 
lia. It  was  widely  reported  that  Libya  had  acquired  the  chemical 
weapons  from  Iran.  Mogadishu  denied  these  charges.  No  evidence 
surfaced  to  confirm  the  existence  of  Libyan- supplied  chemical 
weapons  in  Somalia.  However,  Tripoli  supplied  small  amounts  of 
conventional  military  weapons  and  ammunition  to  Siad  Barre's 


213 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

regime.  By  early  1989,  it  was  evident  that  the  Somali  government's 
strategy  of  using  Libyan-supplied  weapons  to  defeat  the  SNM  and 
other  insurgent  groups  had  failed. 

State  Security  Services 

Under  the  Siad  Barre  regime,  several  police  and  intelligence  or- 
ganizations were  responsible  for  maintaining  public  order,  con- 
trolling crime,  and  protecting  the  government  against  domestic 
threats.  These  included  the  Somali  Police  Force  (SPF),  the  Peo- 
ple's Militia,  the  NSS,  and  a  number  of  other  intelligence- gathering 
operations,  most  of  which  were  headed  by  members  of  the  presi- 
dent's family.  After  Siad  Barre 's  downfall,  these  units  were  re- 
organized or  abolished. 

Somali  Police  Force 

The  Somali  Police  Force  (SPF)  grew  out  of  police  forces  employed 
by  the  British  and  Italians  to  maintain  peace  during  the  colonial 
period.  Both  European  powers  used  Somalis  as  armed  constables 
in  rural  areas.  Somalis  eventually  staffed  the  lower  ranks  of  the 
police  forces,  and  Europeans  served  as  officers.  The  colonial  forces 
produced  the  senior  officers  and  commanders — including  Siad 
Barre — who  led  the  SPF  and  the  army  after  independence. 

In  1884  the  British  formed  an  armed  constabulary  to  police  the 
northern  coast.  In  1910  the  British  created  the  Somaliland  Coastal 
Police,  and  in  1912  they  established  the  Somaliland  Camel  Con- 
stabulary to  police  the  interior.  In  1926  the  colonial  authorities 
formed  the  Somaliland  Police  Force.  Commanded  by  British 
officers,  the  force  included  Somalis  in  its  lower  ranks.  An  armed 
rural  constabulary  {illalo)  supported  this  force  by  bringing  offenders 
to  court,  guarding  prisoners,  patrolling  townships,  and  accompany- 
ing nomadic  tribesmen  over  grazing  areas. 

The  Italians  initially  relied  on  military  forces  to  maintain  pub- 
lic order  in  their  colony.  In  1914  the  authorities  established  a  coastal 
police  and  a  rural  constabulary  (gogle)  to  protect  Italian  residents. 
By  1930  this  force  included  about  300  men.  After  the  fascists  seized 
power  in  Italy,  colonial  administrators  reconstituted  the  Somali 
Police  Corps  into  the  Corpo  Zaptie.  Italian  carabinieri  command- 
ed and  trained  the  new  corps,  which  eventually  numbered  approx- 
imately 800.  During  Italy's  war  against  Ethiopia,  the  Corpo  Zaptie 
expanded  to  about  6,000  men. 

In  1941  the  British  defeated  the  Italians  and  formed  a  British 
Military  Administration  (BMA)  over  both  protectorates.  The  BMA 
disbanded  the  Corpo  Zaptie  and  created  the  Somalia  Gendarmerie. 
By  1943  this  force  had  grown  to  more  than  3,000  men,  led  by  120 


214 


National  Security 


British  officers.  In  1948  the  Somalia  Gendarmerie  became  the 
Somali  Police  Force. 

After  the  creation  of  the  Italian  Trust  Territory  in  1950,  Italian 
carabinieri  officers  and  Somali  personnel  from  the  Somali  Police 
Force  formed  the  Police  Corps  of  Somalia  (Corpo  di  Polizia  della 
Somalia).  In  1958  the  authorities  made  the  corps  an  entirely  Somali 
force  and  changed  its  name  to  the  Police  Force  of  Somalia  (Forza 
di  Polizia  della  Somalia). 

In  1960  the  British  Somaliland  Scouts  joined  with  the  Police 
Corps  of  Somalia  to  form  a  new  Somali  Police  Force,  which  con- 
sisted of  about  3,700  men.  The  authorities  also  organized  approx- 
imately 1 ,000  of  the  force  as  the  Darawishta  Poliska,  a  mobile  group 
used  to  keep  peace  between  warring  clans  in  the  interior.  Since 
then,  the  government  has  considered  the  SPF  a  part  of  the  armed 
forces.  It  was  not  a  branch  of  the  SNA,  however,  and  did  not  oper- 
ate under  the  army's  command  structure.  Until  abolished  in  1976, 
the  Ministry  of  Interior  oversaw  the  force's  national  commandant 
and  his  central  command.  After  that  date,  the  SPF  came  under 
the  control  of  the  presidential  adviser  on  security  affairs. 

Each  of  the  country's  administrative  regions  had  a  police  com- 
mandant; other  commissioned  officers  maintained  law  and  order 
in  the  districts.  After  1972  the  police  outside  Mogadishu  comprised 
northern  and  southern  group  commands,  divisional  commands  (cor- 
responding to  the  districts),  station  commands,  and  police  posts. 
Regional  governors  and  district  commissioners  commanded  regional 
and  district  police  elements. 

Under  the  parliamentary  regime,  police  received  training  and 
materiel  aid  from  West  Germany,  Italy,  and  the  United  States. 
Although  the  government  used  the  police  to  counterbalance  the 
Soviet-supported  army,  no  police  commander  opposed  the  1969 
army  coup.  During  the  1970s,  German  Democratic  Republic  (East 
German)  security  advisers  assisted  the  SPF.  After  relations  with 
the  West  improved  in  the  late  1970s,  West  German  and  Italian 
advisers  again  started  training  police  units. 

By  the  late  1970s,  the  SPF  was  carrying  out  an  array  of  mis- 
sions, including  patrol  work,  traffic  management,  criminal  inves- 
tigation, intelligence  gathering,  and  counterinsurgency.  The  elite 
mobile  police  groups  consisted  of  the  Darawishta  and  the  Birmad- 
ka  Poliska  (Riot  Unit).  The  Darawishta,  a  mobile  unit  that  oper- 
ated in  remote  areas  and  along  the  frontier,  participated  in  the 
Ogaden  War.  The  Birmadka  acted  as  a  crack  unit  for  emergency 
action  and  provided  honor  guards  for  ceremonial  functions. 

In  1961  the  SPF  established  an  air  wing,  equipped  with  Cessna 
light  aircraft  and  one  Douglas  DC-3.  The  unit  operated  from 


215 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

improvised  landing  fields  near  remote  police  posts.  The  wing 
provided  assistance  to  field  police  units  and  to  the  Darawishta 
through  the  airlift  of  supplies  and  personnel  and  reconnaissance. 
During  the  final  days  of  Siad  Barre's  regime,  the  air  wing  operated 
two  Cessna  light  aircraft  and  two  DO-28  Skyservants. 

Technical  and  specialized  police  units  included  the  Tributary 
Division,  the  Criminal  Investigation  Division  (CID),  the  Traffic 
Division,  a  communications  unit,  and  a  training  unit.  The  CID, 
which  operated  throughout  the  country,  handled  investigations,  fin- 
gerprinting, criminal  records,  immigration  matters,  and  passports. 

In  1961  the  SPF  established  a  women's  unit.  Personnel  assigned 
to  this  small  unit  investigated,  inspected,  and  interrogated  female 
offenders  and  victims.  Policewomen  also  handled  cases  that  involved 
female  juvenile  delinquents,  ill  or  abandoned  girls,  prostitutes,  and 
child  beggars. 

Service  units  of  the  Somali  police  included  the  Gadidka  Poliska 
(Transport  Department)  and  the  Health  Service.  The  Police  Cus- 
todial Corps  served  as  prison  guards.  In  1971  the  SPF  created  a 
fifty-man  national  Fire  Brigade.  Initially,  the  Fire  Brigade  oper- 
ated in  Mogadishu.  Later,  however,  it  expanded  its  activities  into 
other  towns,  including  Chisimayu,  Hargeysa,  Berbera,  Merca,  Gio- 
har,  and  Beledweyne. 

Beginning  in  the  early  1970s,  police  recruits  had  to  be  seven- 
teen to  twenty-five  years  of  age,  of  high  moral  caliber,  and  physi- 
cally fit.  Upon  completion  of  six  months  of  training  at  the  National 
Police  Academy  in  Mogadishu,  those  who  passed  an  examination 
would  serve  two  years  on  the  force.  After  the  recruits  completed 
this  service,  the  police  could  request  renewal  of  their  contracts. 
Officer  cadets  underwent  a  nine-month  training  course  that  em- 
phasized supervision  of  police  field  performance.  Darawishta  mem- 
bers attended  a  six-month  tactical  training  course;  Birmadka 
personnel  received  training  in  public  order  and  riot  control.  After 
Siad  Barre  fled  Mogadishu  in  January  1991,  both  the  Darawishta 
and  Birmadka  forces  ceased  to  operate,  for  all  practical  purposes. 

People's  Militia 

In  August  1972,  the  government  established  the  People's  Militia, 
known  as  the  Victory  Pioneers  (Guulwadayaal).  Although  a  wing 
of  the  army,  the  militia  worked  under  the  supervision  of  the  Polit- 
ical Bureau  of  the  presidency.  After  the  SRSP's  formation  in  1976, 
the  militia  became  part  of  the  party  apparatus.  Largely  because 
of  the  need  for  military  reserves,  militia  membership  increased  from 
2,500  in  1977  to  about  10,000  in  1979,  and  to  approximately  20,000 


216 


National  Security 


by  1990.  After  the  collapse  of  Siad  Barre's  regime,  the  People's 
Militia,  like  other  military  elements,  disintegrated. 

The  militia  staffed  the  government  and  party  orientation  centers 
that  were  located  in  every  settlement  in  Somalia.  The  militia  aid- 
ed in  self-help  programs,  encouraged  "revolutionary  progress," 
promoted  and  defended  Somali  culture,  and  fought  laziness,  mis- 
use of  public  property,  and  "reactionary"  ideas  and  actions. 
Moreover,  the  militia  acted  as  a  law  enforcement  agency  that  per- 
formed duties  such  as  checking  contacts  between  Somalis  and 
foreigners.  The  militia  also  had  powers  of  arrest  independent  of 
the  police.  In  rural  areas,  militiamen  formed  "vigilance  corps" 
that  guarded  grazing  areas  and  towns.  After  Siad  Barre  fled 
Mogadishu  in  January  1991,  militia  members  tended  to  join  one 
of  the  insurgent  groups  or  clan  militias. 

National  Security  Service 

Shortly  after  Siad  Barre  seized  power,  the  Soviet  Committee  of 
State  Security  (Komitet  gosudarstvennoi  bezopasnosti — KGB) 
helped  Somalia  form  the  National  Security  Service  (NSS).  This 
organization,  which  operated  outside  normal  bureaucratic  chan- 
nels, developed  into  an  instrument  of  domestic  surveillance,  with 
powers  of  arrest  and  investigation.  The  NSS  monitored  the  profes- 
sional and  private  activities  of  civil  servants  and  military  person- 
nel and  played  a  role  in  the  promotion  and  demotion  of  government 
officials.  As  the  number  of  insurgent  movements  proliferated  in 
the  late  1980s,  the  NSS  increased  its  activities  against  dissidents, 
rebel  sympathizers,  and  other  government  opponents  (see  Human 
Rights,  this  ch.).  Until  the  downfall  of  Siad  Barre's  regime,  the 
NSS  remained  an  elite  organization  staffed  by  men  from  the  SNA 
and  the  police  force  who  had  been  chosen  for  their  loyalty  to  the 
president. 

Criminal  Justice 

Over  the  centuries,  the  Somalis  developed  a  system  of  handling 
disputes  or  acts  of  violence,  including  homicide,  as  wrongs  involving 
not  only  the  parties  immediately  concerned  but  also  the  clans  to 
which  they  belonged.  The  offending  party  and  his  group  would 
pay  diya  to  the  injured  party  and  his  clan.  The  British  and  Italians 
enforced  criminal  codes  based  on  their  own  judicial  systems  in  their 
respective  colonies,  but  did  not  seriously  disrupt  the  dfzjw-paying 
system. 

After  independence  the  Somali  government  developed  its  own 
laws  and  procedures,  which  were  largely  based  on  British  and  Italian 


217 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

legal  codes.  Somali  officials  made  no  attempt  to  develop  a  uniquely 
Somali  criminal  justice  system,  although  ^a-paying  arrangements 
continued. 

The  military  junta  that  seized  power  in  1969  changed  little  of 
the  criminal  justice  system  it  inherited.  However,  the  government 
launched  a  campaign  against  diya  and  the  concept  of  collective 
responsibility  for  crimes.  This  concept  is  the  most  distinctly  Somali 
of  any  in  the  criminal  justice  system.  The  regime  instead  concen- 
trated on  extending  the  influence  of  laws  introduced  by  the  British 
and  Italians.  This  increased  the  government's  control  over  an  area 
of  national  life  previously  regulated  largely  by  custom. 

Penal  System 

The  Somali  Penal  Code,  promulgated  in  early  1962,  became  ef- 
fective on  April  3,  1964.  It  was  Somalia's  first  codification  of  laws 
designed  to  protect  the  individual  and  to  ensure  the  equitable  ad- 
ministration of  justice.  The  basis  of  the  code  was  the  constitution- 
al premise  that  the  law  has  supremacy  over  the  state  and  its  citizens. 
The  code  placed  responsibility  for  determining  offenses  and  punish- 
ments on  the  written  law  and  the  judicial  system  and  excluded  many 
penal  sanctions  formerly  observed  in  unwritten  customary  law.  The 
authorities  who  drafted  the  code,  however,  did  not  disregard  the 
people's  past  reliance  on  traditional  rules  and  sanctions.  The  code 
contained  some  of  the  authority  expressed  by  customary  law  and 
by  Islamic  sharia,  or  religious  law. 

The  penal  laws  applied  to  all  nationals,  foreigners,  and  stateless 
persons  living  in  Somalia.  Courts  ruled  out  ignorance  of  the  law 
as  a  justification  for  breaking  the  law  or  an  excuse  for  committing 
an  offense,  but  considered  extenuations  and  mitigating  factors  in 
individual  cases.  The  penal  laws  prohibited  collective  punishment, 
which  was  contrary  to  the  traditional  sanctions  of  diya-pay'mg 
groups.  The  penal  laws  stipulated  that  if  the  offense  constituted 
a  violation  of  the  code,  the  perpetrator  had  committed  an  unlaw- 
ful act  against  the  state  and  was  subject  to  its  sanctions.  Judicial 
action  under  the  code,  however,  did  not  rule  out  the  possibility 
of  additional  redress  in  the  form  of  diya  through  civil  action  in  the 
courts.  Siad  Barre's  regime  attacked  this  tolerance  of  diya,  and  for- 
bade its  practice  entirely  in  1974. 

Under  the  Somali  penal  code,  to  be  criminally  liable  a  person 
must  have  committed  an  act  or  have  been  guilty  of  an  omission 
that  caused  harm  or  danger  to  the  person  or  property  of  another 
or  to  the  state.  Further,  the  offense  must  have  been  committed  will- 
fully or  as  the  result  of  negligence,  imprudence,  or  illegal  behavior. 
Under  Somali  penal  law,  the  courts  assumed  the  accused  to  be 


218 


National  Security 


innocent  until  proved  guilty  beyond  reasonable  doubt.  In  crimi- 
nal prosecution,  the  burden  of  proof  rested  with  the  state. 

Penal  laws  classed  offenses  as  either  crimes  or  contraventions, 
the  latter  being  legal  violations  without  criminal  intent.  Death  by 
shooting  was  the  only  sentence  for  serious  offenses  such  as  crimes 
against  the  state  and  murder.  The  penal  law  usually  prescribed 
maximum  and  minimum  punishments  but  left  the  actual  sentence 
to  the  judge's  discretion. 

The  penal  laws  comprised  three  categories.  The  first  dealt  with 
general  principles  of  jurisprudence;  the  second  defined  criminal 
offenses  and  prescribed  specified  punishments;  the  third  contained 
sixty-one  articles  that  regulated  contraventions  of  public  order,  safety, 
morality,  and  health.  Penal  laws  took  into  consideration  the  role 
of  punishment  in  restoring  the  offender  to  a  useful  place  in  society. 

The  Criminal  Procedure  Code  governed  matters  associated  with 
arrest  and  trial.  The  code,  which  conformed  to  British  common 
law,  prescribed  the  kinds  and  jurisdictions  of  criminal  courts,  iden- 
tified the  functions  and  responsibilities  of  judicial  officials,  oudined 
the  rules  of  evidence,  and  regulated  the  conduct  of  trials.  Normal- 
ly, a  person  could  be  arrested  only  if  caught  in  the  act  of  commit- 
ting an  offense  or  upon  issuance  of  a  warrant  by  the  proper  judicial 
authority.  The  code  recognized  the  writ  of  habeas  corpus.  Those 
arrested  had  the  right  to  appear  before  a  judge  within  twenty-four 
hours. 

As  government  opposition  proliferated  in  the  late  1970s  and  early 
1980s,  the  Siad  Barre  regime  increasingly  subverted  or  ignored 
Somalia's  legal  system.  By  the  late  1980s,  Somalia  had  become  a 
police  state,  with  citizens  often  falling  afoul  of  the  authorities  for 
solely  political  reasons.  Pressure  by  international  human  rights  or- 
ganizations such  as  Amnesty  International  and  Africa  Watch  failed 
to  slow  Somalia's  descent  into  lawlessness.  After  Siad  Barre  fell 
from  power  in  January  1991,  the  new  authorities  promised  to  re- 
store equity  to  the  country's  legal  system.  Given  the  many  politi- 
cal, economic,  and  social  problems  confronting  post-Siad  Barre 
Somalia,  however,  it  appeared  unlikely  that  this  goal  would  be 
achieved  soon. 

Prison  System 

The  few  prisons  that  existed  before  1960  had  been  established 
during  the  British  and  Italian  colonial  administrations.  By  indepen- 
dence these  facilities  were  in  poor  condition  and  were  inadequate- 
ly staffed. 

After  independence  the  Somali  government  included  in  the  con- 
stitution an  article  asserting  that  criminal  punishment  must  not 


219 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

be  an  obstacle  to  convicts'  moral  reeducation.  This  article  also  es- 
tablished a  prison  organization  and  emphasized  prisoner  rehabili- 
tation. 

The  Somali  Penal  Code  of  1962  effectively  stipulated  the  reor- 
ganization of  the  prison  system.  The  code  required  that  prisoners 
of  all  ages  work  during  prison  confinement.  In  return  for  labor 
on  prison  farms,  construction  projects,  and  roadbuilding,  prisoners 
received  a  modest  salary,  which  they  could  spend  in  prison  can- 
teens or  retain  until  their  release.  The  code  also  outlawed  the  im- 
prisonment of  juveniles  with  adults. 

By  1969  Somalia's  prison  system  included  forty-nine  facilities, 
the  best-equipped  of  which  was  the  Central  Prison  of  Mogadishu. 
During  the  1970s,  East  Germany  helped  Somalia  build  four  modern 
prisons.  As  opposition  to  Siad  Barre's  regime  intensified,  the  coun- 
try's prisons  became  so  crowded  that  the  government  used  schools, 
military  and  police  headquarters,  and  part  of  the  presidential  palace 
as  makeshift  jails.  Despite  criticism  by  several  international  hu- 
manitarian agencies,  the  Somali  government  failed  to  improve  the 
prison  system. 

Human  Rights 

The  constitution  of  1961,  in  force  until  the  October  1969  revo- 
lution, protected  the  civil  rights  outlined  in  the  United  Nations 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  These  included  the  presumption 
of  innocence  before  the  courts,  the  right  of  habeas  corpus,  the  free- 
doms of  political  association,  public  expression,  and  personal  liberty 
and  movement,  and  the  right  to  form  labor  unions  and  to  strike. 
The  state  owned  all  land  (outright  ownership  of  land  conflicts  with 
Somali  traditions),  but  developed  property  and  improved  land  could 
be  expropriated  only  on  the  basis  of  equitable  compensation.  With 
few  exceptions,  the  Somali  government  respected  these  rights. 

In  October  1970,  the  Siad  Barre  government  abolished  the  right 
of  habeas  corpus;  however,  the  courts  continued  to  recognize  the 
presumption  of  innocence  and  to  provide  free  legal  assistance  to 
indigent  defendants  in  serious  cases.  The  regime  also  extended  equal 
rights  to  women  in  several  areas,  including  inheritance.  In  the  late 
1970s,  however,  the  government  began  restricting  civil  rights  to 
counter  the  spread  of  dissident  elements.  This  policy  was  criticized 
by  the  United  States  and  several  other  Western  nations. 

In  1979,  anxious  to  obtain  United  States  military  and  economic 
assistance,  Siad  Barre  promulgated  a  new  liberal  constitution.  Ap- 
proved by  a  national  referendum  held  on  August  29,  1979,  this 
constitution  stipulated  the  restoration  of  many  of  the  civil  rights 
that  had  been  extinguished  by  the  military  government.  The  new 


220 


National  Security 


constitution  guaranteed  freedom  of  speech,  religion,  and  publica- 
tion and  the  right  to  participate  in  an  assembly,  demonstration, 
or  organization.  The  constitution  also  supported  the  inviolability 
of  the  home  and  the  privacy  of  correspondence.  However,  these 
safeguards  were  subject  to  important  qualifications — in  the  cases 
of  freedom  of  expression  and  association  by  the  condition  that  ex- 
ercise of  these  rights  " shall  not  contravene  the  constitution,  the 
laws  of  the  land,  general  morality,  and  public  order."  Further- 
more, under  the  constitution  the  government  was  permitted  to  con- 
trol the  press,  subject  foreign  publications  to  censorship,  and 
circumscribe  freedom  of  assembly. 

The  constitution  stipulated  that  anyone  deprived  of  personal 
liberty  should  forthwith  be  informed  of  the  offense  of  which  he  was 
accused,  and  anyone  detained  on  security  grounds  must  be  brought 
before  a  competent  judicial  authority  without  delay.  Despite  these 
provisions,  the  Amnesty  International  Report,  1980  estimated  that  the 
government  had  jailed  at  least  100  people  on  political  grounds 
without  charge  or  trial,  among  them  former  prime  minister  Ma- 
hammad  Ibrahim  Igaal.  After  the  1978  coup  attempt,  the 
Mogadishu  National  Security  Court  tried  seventy-four  men  and 
subsequently  ordered  the  execution  of  seventeen  of  them.  The  defen- 
dants had  access  to  legal  representation,  and  close  relatives  were 
permitted  to  attend  the  trials.  However,  in  early  1980  the  govern- 
ment secretly  executed  as  many  as  several  dozen  military  person- 
nel for  supporting  the  Somali  Salvation  Front  (SSF)  guerrilla 
movement. 

Over  the  next  few  years,  the  proliferation  of  insurgent  move- 
ments prompted  Mogadishu  to  become  increasingly  oppressive. 
In  1982,  for  example,  the  government  declared  a  state  of  emer- 
gency in  northern  Somalia  and  took  steps  to  suppress  local  popu- 
lations. Additionally,  laws  were  adopted  that  placed  civilians  under 
the  jurisdiction  of  military  tribunals  and  military  police.  Several 
institutions  constituted  this  new  security  apparatus,  including  the 
Mobile  Military  Court  (MMC),  the  Regional  Security  Council 
(RSC),  the  HANGASH  (Somali  acronym  for  military  police),  the 
NSS,  and  the  Victory  Pioneers. 

Established  in  1982,  the  MMC  was  composed  entirely  of  mili- 
tary officers.  Two  years  later,  after  the  SNM  had  launched  an  offen- 
sive in  the  mountainous  region  of  Sheekh  and  nearby  Burao,  the 
MMC  assumed  jurisdiction  over  civilians.  Operating  from  head- 
quarters in  Hargeysa,  the  MMC  created  a  network  of  offices 
throughout  northern  Somalia.  Initially,  the  MMC  tried  small  num- 
bers of  suspected  opponents  of  the  regime  such  as  businessmen  and 
educated  people.  Eventually,  however,  the  MMC  tried  every  variety 


221 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

of  politically  active  person  or  group.  The  court  prosecutor,  Colonel 
Yuusuf  Muse,  quickly  earned  a  reputation  for  cruelty  and  his  in- 
sistence on  the  death  penalty.  In  1984-85  and  from  late  1987  until 
mid- 1988,  Muse  authorized  mass  executions  of  hundreds,  if  not 
thousands,  of  northerners. 

The  RSC,  which  was  superior  to  all  other  branches  of  the  secu- 
rity system,  consisted  of  the  regional  governor,  the  regional  mili- 
tary commander,  a  military  officer,  the  regional  police  commander, 
and  the  following  national  officials:  the  NSS  director,  the  head  of 
the  SRSP,  the  commander  of  the  Victory  Pioneers,  and  the  direc- 
tor of  the  Police  Custodial  Corps.  Although  it  could  operate  any- 
where in  the  country,  the  RSC  confined  its  activities  to  northern 
Somalia.  The  RSC  usually  met  weekly,  but  it  convened  more  fre- 
quentiy  during  emergencies.  Any  quorum  of  six  could  impose  long 
prison  sentences  or  the  death  penalty.  From  its  inception,  the  RSC 
ordered  mass  arrests  of  SNM  sympathizers  and  other  suspected 
government  opponents  and  confiscated  their  property.  The  RSC 
often  relied  on  the  NSS  to  conduct  interrogations  and  prepare  ar- 
rest warrants. 

Mogadishu  created  the  HANGASH  in  the  aftermath  of  the  1978 
coup  attempt.  Its  purpose  was  to  maintain  surveillance  over  the 
military  and  the  NSS.  As  the  government's  crackdown  on  politi- 
cal activity  became  more  severe,  however,  the  HANGASH  acquired 
power  over  civilians.  Eventually,  the  HANGASH,  which  operat- 
ed without  legal  authority,  became  more  feared  than  the  NSS. 

The  NSS,  Somalia's  principal  intelligence  agency,  possessed  the 
power  to  detain  people  indefinitely  if  they  were  suspected  of  hav- 
ing committed  national  security  offenses.  Article  5  of  Law  No.  8 
of  January  26,  1970,  abolished  the  right  to  habeas  corpus  in  na- 
tional security  cases  and  permitted  access  to  lawyers  only  after  the 
NSS  had  completed  its  investigations  and  had  prepared  charges. 
Over  the  years,  the  NSS  used  the  national  security  rationale  to  justi- 
fy the  arrest,  execution,  or  imprisonment  of  hundreds,  if  not  thou- 
sands, of  real  and  imagined  government  opponents. 

The  Victory  Pioneers  were  a  uniformed  militia  that  provided 
security  at  the  neighborhood  level.  Pioneer  units,  which  existed 
in  every  town  and  village,  ensured  loyalty  to  Siad  Barre's  regime 
by  encouraging  people  to  spy  on  each  other  in  the  work  place, 
schools,  mosques,  and  private  homes. 

After  the  SNM  launched  a  major  offensive  in  northern  Somalia 
in  late  May  1988,  deterioration  of  the  government's  human  rights 
record  accelerated.  The  SNA  used  artillery  shelling  and  aerial  bom- 
bardment in  heavily  populated  urban  centers  to  retake  the  towns 
of  Hargeysa  and  Burao.  As  a  result,  thousands  of  refugees  gathered 


222 


Center  for  internally  displaced  persons,  Mogadishu,  1991 
Refugee  women  in  camp  near  Luuq,  western  Somalia,  1991 

Courtesy  Hiram  A.  Ruiz 


223 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

on  the  outskirts  of  these  cities.  After  breaking  into  smaller  groups 
of  300  to  500,  the  refugees  started  a  ten-  to  forty-day  trek  to  Ethio- 
pia; others  fled  to  Djibouti  and  Kenya.  Along  the  way,  SNA  units 
robbed  many  civilians  and  summarily  executed  anyone  suspected 
of  being  an  SNM  member  or  sympathizer.  SAF  jet  aircraft  strafed 
many  refugee  columns,  forcing  refugees  to  walk  at  night  to  avoid 
further  attacks.  Africa  Watch  reported  that  government  forces  had 
killed  as  many  as  50,000  unarmed  civilians  between  June  1988  and 
January  1990;  most  victims  belonged  to  the  northern  Isaaq  clan. 

By  1990  security  conditions  had  become  as  bad  in  central  and 
southern  Somalia  as  they  had  been  in  the  north.  As  a  result,  the 
government  enacted  harsh  new  measures  against  opposition  ele- 
ments. In  Mogadishu,  for  example,  SNA  personnel  and  members 
of  the  various  security  agencies  regularly  raped,  robbed,  and  killed 
noncombatant  citizens.  The  emergence  of  bandit  groups  in  the  cap- 
ital only  exacerbated  security  problems  in  Mogadishu.  On  July  6, 
1990,  some  of  Siad  Barre's  bodyguards,  the  Red  Berets  (Duub  Cas), 
started  shooting  at  people  who  had  been  shouting  antigovernment 
slogans  at  a  soccer  match.  Other  Red  Berets,  stationed  outside  the 
soccer  stadium,  shot  into  the  crowd  as  it  tried  to  escape  the  chaos 
inside  (see  Harrying  of  the  Hawiye,  ch.  1).  Eventually,  at  least 
65  civilians  lost  their  lives  and  more  than  300  sustained  serious 
wounds.  The  authorities  refused  to  allow  families  to  recover  the 
bodies  of  their  relatives. 

In  the  central  area,  which  consists  of  Mudug,  Hiiraan,  and  Gal- 
guduud  regions,  the  government  unleashed  a  reign  of  terror  against 
those  suspected  of  supporting  or  belonging  to  the  United  Somali 
Congress  (USC),  another  insurgent  group.  According  to  Africa 
Watch,  the  SNA  killed  hundreds  of  civilians  in  retaliation  for  reb- 
el attacks.  Government  troops  also  ambushed  numerous  cars,  killing 
and  injuring  many  of  the  passengers.  After  robbing  vehicles,  sol- 
diers usually  hanged  some  victims  on  trees  and  then  forced  local 
inhabitants  to  view  the  bodies  of  what  the  soldiers  claimed  were 
armed  bandits.  Similar  violence  occurred  at  several  other  central 
and  southern  towns  and  villages,  including  Beledweyne,  Adaddo, 
Gaalcaio,  Doolow,  Hara  Cadera,  Hobyo,  Las  Adale,  and  Wisil. 

Apart  from  atrocities  committed  by  troops  in  the  field,  prison 
authorities  mistreated  political  detainees  and  other  prisoners,  despite 
the  fact  that  on  January  24,  1990,  the  government  had  ratified  the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights.  According 
to  Africa  Watch,  detainees  and  prisoners  were  held  in  tiny,  over- 
crowded cells  and  denied  medical  treatment  and  physical  exercise. 
Many  were  tortured.  During  Siad  Barre's  final  months  in  power, 
the  Central  Prison  of  Mogadishu,  which  was  intended  to  hold  about 


224 


National  Security 


600  people,  often  contained  1 ,600  or  more  prisoners.  There  was  also 
a  lack  of  food,  water,  medicine,  bedding,  and  air.  Guards  extorted 
food  and  money,  which  had  been  supplied  by  prisoners'  families. 

In  response  to  growing  domestic  and  international  pressure,  the 
government  introduced  a  provisional  constitution,  effective  for  one 
year  from  October  12,  1990.  Supposedly,  the  constitution  would 
have  repealed  a  series  of  repressive  security  laws;  permitted  free, 
multiparty  elections;  guaranteed  individual  civil  rights;  and  trans- 
ferred considerable  power  from  the  president  to  the  prime  minister, 
cabinet,  and  parliament.  However,  the  heavy  fighting  that  engulfed 
Mogadishu  and  other  areas  of  Somalia  at  the  end  of  1990  prevent- 
ed the  new  constitution  from  having  any  impact.  After  Siad  Barre 
fled  Mogadishu  in  early  1991,  Somalia's  human  rights  record  fur- 
ther deteriorated,  largely  because  of  fighting  between  and  among 
various  insurgent  groups  and  clan  militias,  and  the  attacks  by  bandit 
groups  on  the  civilian  population. 

Given  the  West's  limited  access  to  Somalia  and  the  secrecy  that 
surrounded  security-related  activities,  there  is  no  definitive  study 
of  the  country's  armed  forces.  Those  interested  in  Somali  national 
security  affairs  therefore  must  rely  on  a  variety  of  periodical  sources, 
including  Africa  Research  Bulletin,  Keesing's  Contemporary  Archives,  Third 
World  Reports,  Africa  Confidential,  and  African  Defense  Journal.  Other 
useful  publications  include  New  African,  Africa  Events,  Africa  News, 
Focus  on  Africa,  and  Horn  of  Africa.  Two  International  Institute  for 
Strategic  Studies  annuals,  The  Military  Balance  and  Strategic  Survey, 
also  are  essential  for  anyone  wishing  to  understand  the  evolution 
of  Somalia's  security  forces.  The  same  is  true  of  three  annuals: 
Africa  Contemporary  Record,  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  and  World  Ar- 
maments and  Disarmament.  The  last  is  published  by  the  Stockholm 
International  Peace  Research  Institute. 

Useful  historical  works  include  Malcolm  McNeill's  In  Pursuit  of 
the  'Mad  Mullah ':  Service  and  Sport  in  the  Somali  Protectorate,  Douglas 
J.  Jardine's  The  Mad  Mullah  of  Somaliland,  and  H.F.P.  Battesby's 
Richard  Corf ield  of  Somaliland.  Bruce  D.  Porter's  The  USSR  in  Third 
World  Conflicts  provides  an  excellent  analysis  of  the  1977-78  Ogaden 
War  between  Somalia  and  Ethiopia.  Somalia:  Nation  in  Search  of  a 
State,  by  David  D.  Laitin  and  Said  S.  Samatar,  contains  some  use- 
ful information  on  the  postindependence  evolution  of  the  Somali 
armed  forces.  Material  on  human  rights  practices  in  Somalia  can 
be  found  in  the  annual  Amnesty  International  Report  and  in  a  variety 
of  Africa  Watch  reports,  the  most  important  of  which  is  Somalia:  A 


225 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Government  at  War  with  Its  Own  People.  (For  further  information  and 
complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


226 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Selected  Commodities,  Selected  Years,  1969-80 

3  External  Debt,  1984,  1986,  and  1988 

4  Principal  Crops,  1987,  1988,  and  1989 

5  Principal  Livestock,  1987,  1988,  and  1989 

6  Selected  Commodities,  1987,  1988,  and  1989 

7  Gross  Domestic  Product  by  Sector,  1988,  1989,  and  1990 

8  Exports  by  Commodity,  Selected  Years,  1980-88 

9  Imports  by  Commodity,  Selected  Years,  1980-86 
10  Balance  of  Payments,  1987,  1988,  and  1989 


227 


Appendix 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


When  you  know  Multiply  by  To  find 


Millimeters    0.04  inches 

Centimeters   0.39  inches 

Meters   3.3  feet 

Kilometers   0.62  miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)   2.47  acres 

Square  kilometers    0.39  square  miles 

Cubic  meters   35.3  cubic  feet 

Liters   0.26  gallons 

Kilograms    2.2  pounds 

Metric  tons    0.98  long  tons 

  1.1  short  tons 

  2,204  pounds 

Degrees  Celsius   1.8  degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade)  and  add  32 


Table  2.  Selected  Commodities,  Selected  Years, 
1969-80 


Commodity 

1969 

1972 

1975 

1980 

91,491 

116,497 

69,868 

49,943 

Grains  (in  thousands  of  tons 

297 

263 

238 

240 

Livestock  (in  thousands 

2,250 

3,000 

1,900 

5,450 

1,104 

4,359 

4,673 

770 

Milk  (bottled,  in  thousands  of  liters)  .  .  . 

880 

1,940  * 

2,160 

2,000 

Sugar  (in  thousands  of  tons)   

47 

37  * 

31 

29 

Textiles  (in  thousands  of  meters)  

728 

5,838 

5,029 

11,979 

*  Estimated. 


229 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  3.  External  Debt,  1984,  1986,  and  1988 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


Debtor 

1984 

1986 

1988 

Long-term  debt 

Central  Bank  (including  IMF  credit)  *   

112.1 

155.6 

164.9 

1,226.2 

1,522.3 

1,731.9 

11.6 

20.3 

21.9 

Private  sector  (including  nonguaranteed)  

44.8 

16.5 

n.a. 

Short-term  debt  

92.1 

87.8 

116.0 

TOTAL   

1,486.8 

1,802.5 

2,034.7 

n.a. — not  available. 


*  IMF — International  Monetary  Fund. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  World  Tables,  1989,  Baltimore,  1990,  499. 


Table  4.  Principal  Crops,  1987,  1988,  and  1989 
(in  thousands  of  tons) 


Crop  1987       1988  1989 


Bananas    108  115  116* 

Corn   296  353  302 

Sorghum    244  235  291 

Sugarcane   390  450  450 


*  Estimate  from  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  "Somalia — Economy ,"  Africa  South  of the  Sahara,  1992, 
London,  1991,  899. 


Table  5.  Principal  Livestock,  1987,  1988,  and  1989 
(in  thousands  of  head) 


Kind  of  Livestock  1987  1988  *        1989  * 


Camels    6,601  6,680  6,700 

Cattle   4,770  5,000  5,200 

Goats   19,705  20,000  20,300 

Sheep    13,195  13,500  13,800 


*  Estimate  from  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  "Somalia — Economy,"  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  1992, 
London,  1991,  899. 

230 


Appendix 


Table  6.  Selected  Commodities,  1987,  1988,  and  1989 


Commodity 

1987 

1988 

1989 

Bananas  (in  thousands  of  tons)    .  .  . 

108 

115 

116  1 

Grains  (in  thousands  of  tons  of  corn 

and  sorghum)  

530 

588 

593 

Livestock  (in  thousands  of  head  of 

6,601 

6,680 

6,700  1 

1.0  2 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Milk  (in  tons  of  cows',  goats', 

and  sheep's  milk)   

1,448,000  1 

1,568,000  1 

1,660,000  1 

Sugar  (in  thousands  of  tons)   

43.3 

41.2 

n.a. 

Textiles  (in  thousands  of  meters)  .  . 

2,727 

5,727 

n.a. 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  Estimate  from  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations. 

2  Figure  for  1986. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  "Somalia — Economy, "  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  1992, 
London,  1991,  899-900. 


231 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  7.  Gross  Domestic  Product  by  Sector,  1988,  1989,  and  1990 
(in  millions  of  Somali  shillings  at  constant  1985  prices)  1 

1988  1989  1990 

Sector  Actual  Estimated  Planned 

Agriculture,  forestry,  and  fishing 

Livestock    33,474  33,100  33,928 

Crops    21,949  23,156  24,082 

Forestry    5,556  5,723  5,894 

Fishing   *   634  685  753 

Total  agriculture,  forestry,  and 

fishing    61,613  62,664  64,657 

Mining   291  291  291 

Manufacturing    4,580  4,823  5,160 

Construction    2,963  3,082  3,266 

Electricity  and  water    57  60  63 

Transportation  and 

communications    5,873  6,225  6,599 

Service 

Government    1,404  1,243  1,346 

Trade  and  hotels    8,599  9,081  9,625 

Finance  and  insurance    546  568  613 

Real  estate    3,344  3,377  3,513 

Other    2,863  2,949  3,067 

Total  services    16,756  17,218  18,164 

Imputed  bank  changes    -  748  -  785  -  785 

GROSS  DOMESTIC  PRODUCT  2  91,385  93,578  97,415 

1  For  value  of  the  Somali  shilling — see  Glossary. 

2  At  factor  cost. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Somalia,  Ministry  of  National  Planning  and  Jubba 
Valley  Development,  Annual  Development  Plan,  1990,  Mogadishu,  1990,  4. 


232 


Appendix 


Table  8.  Exports  by  Commodity,  Selected  Years,  1980-88 
(in  millions  of  Somali  shillings)  1 


Commodity 

1980 

1982 

1984 

1986 

1987 

1988 

fift  ft 
oo.o 

9^  8 
A  J .  o 

JUU.J 

1  907  9 

9  4-fift  ft 

£.  ,  TOO  .  O 

3  QQ9  3 

X  loll   CLllKJL  lliMl 

nrnn  1 1  ct  c 

2.8 

22.8 

8.0 

45.2 

70.4 

291.8 

Hides  and  skins    .  .  . 

42.1 

3.2 

11.4 

294.0 

705.2 

492.0 

Livestock 

Camels 

46.7 

56.7 

6.5 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Cattle   

156.7 

383.9 

2  8.6 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Goats   

218.7 

715.3 

393.6 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Sheep   

217.4 

855.0 

350.2 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Total  livestock  . 

639.5 

2,010.9 

758.9 

4,420.3 

7,300.0 

3,806.5 

Meat  and  meat 

10.4 

1.2 

0.1 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

43.6 

229.9 

252.8 

Other   

71.3 

78.7 

395.1 

362.2 

125.6 

1,078.7 

TOTAL  (f.o.b.)  2  .  . 

834.9 

2,142.6 

1,273.8 

6,372.5 

10,899.9 

9,914.1 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  For  value  of  the  Somali  shilling — see  Glossary. 

2  f.o.b. — free  on  board. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  "Somalia — Economy,"  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  1992, 
London,  1991,  902;  and  Somalia,  Ministry  of  National  Planning  and  Jubba  Val- 
ley Development,  Somalia  in  Figures,  Mogadishu,  1989,  9. 


233 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  9.  Imports  by  Commodity,  Selected  Years,  1980-86 
(in  millions  of  Somali  shillings)  1 


Commodity 

1980 

1982 

1984 

1985 

1986 

Consumer  goods 

DCVCIdeCa  ctllU   LUUdL-UU    •  •  •  • 

38.3 

135.1 

101.4 

82.7 

315.3 

Clothing  and  footwear  .... 

4ft  7 

TTO.  / 

^7  9 

74.  Q 

Jl  .o 

1ftQ  ft 

Food 

668.3 

654.0 

1,309.1 

2,964.9 

5,594.5 

Medical  and  pharmaceutical 

rMTirii  i  ^tc 

38.0 

51.5 

46.0 

199.2 

527.2 

x  ClaUIldi  lUUClIlCa  dUU 

3.4 

6.5 

1  D 

3  3 

90  ft 

AV.O 

00. 0 

fifi  4 
OO.T- 

41  9 

OD.U 

4^7  9 

1ftQ  1 

1Q9  7 

1  14  7 
1  It.  1 

7Qfi 

/  yo.o 

ftQQ  Q 

Total  consumer  goods   .  . 

1,042.4 

1,163.4 

1,688.3 

4,183.3 

8,004.7 

16.1 

510.4 

■398.0 

1,493.7 

943.5 

Intermediate  goods 

Cement  and  building 

materials   

5.9 

195.2 

1,048.3 

334.9 

911.8 

.9 

9.5 

n.a. 

19.6 

28.8 

28.8 

128.8 

42.6 

51.1 

111.2 

ft  3 

O.J 

ftfi  Q 

1QQ  ft 

91  ^  fi 

74Q  ft 
/  tj .  \j 

IVxClcU  allU  IXllilCXdl 

manufactures 

147.9 

144.8 

89.1 

213.2 

212.0 

97  7 

10  1 

33  S 
jj  .  j 

77  1 

30^  ft 

Rubber  products   

35.6 

38.9 

17.7 

126.5 

253.0 

Wood,  lumber,  and  cork 

products  

14.6 

41.1 

35.2 

79.9 

178.8 

Other   

n.a. 

372.5 

432.0 

292.1 

835.5 

Total  intermediate 

359.7 

1,027.8 

1,898.2 

1,410.0 

3,585.1 

Capital  goods 

164.4 

136.3 

130.7 

162.4 

583.0 

Nonelectrical  machinery    .  . 

129.1 

301.9 

223.4 

469.0 

1,744.7 

Transportation  equipment  . 

478.8 

409.0 

776.0 

1,717.9 

5,272.5 

Total  capital  goods  .... 

772.3 

847.2 

1,130.1 

2,349.3 

7,600.2 

Other   

0.1 

n.a. 

20.4 

0.4 

340.4 

TOTAL  (c.i.f.)  2  

2,190.6 

3,548.8 

5,135.0 

9,436.7 

20,473.9 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  For  value  of  the  Somali  shilling — see  Glossary. 

2  c.i.f. — cost,  insurance,  and  freight. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Somalia,  Ministry  of  National  Planning  and  Jubba 
Valley  Development,  Somalia  in  Figures,  Mogadishu,  1989,  9. 


234 


Appendix 


Table  10.  Balance  of  Payments,  1987,  1988,  and  1989 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1  Q&7 

1  QftR 

1  QQQ 

Q4  0 

JO .  t: 

fi7  7 

Merchandise  imports  (fob)   

-  358  5 

-  216.0 

-  346.3 

  -  264.5 

-  157.6 

-  278.6 

  -127.7 

-  104.0 

-  122.0 

  -52.0 

-60.6 

-84.4 

  -13.1 

6.4 

-2.9 

Official  unrequited  transfers  (net)   

  343.3 

217.3 

331.2 

  -114.0 

-98.5 

-  156.7 

  -25.1 

-  102.8 

-31.9 

  40.7 

21.1 

-0.8 

BALANCE  OF  PAYMENTS   

  -98.4 

-  180.2 

-  189.4 

*  f.o.b. — free  on  board 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  "Somalia — Economy,"  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  1992, 
London,  1991,  901. 


235 


J 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Abir,  M.  "Ethiopia  and  the  Horn  of  Africa."  Pages  537-77  in 
Richard  Gray  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  History  of  Africa,  4:  From  c. 
1600  toe.  1790.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1975. 

Abdulqawi,  A.  Yusuf.  "The  Anglo-Ethiopian  Treaty  of  1897  and 
the  Somali-Ethiopian  Dispute,"  Horn  of  Africa,  3,  No.  1,  January- 
March  1980,  38-42. 

Beachey,  R.W.  "The  Arms  Trade  in  East  Africa  in  the  Late 
Nineteenth  Century, "  Journal  of  African  History  [Cambridge],  3, 
No.  3,  1962,  451-67. 

Bell,  J.  Bowyer.  The  Horn  of  Africa:  Strategic  Magnet  in  the  Seventies. 
New  York:  Crane,  Russak  for  National  Security  Information 
Center,  1973. 

 "Strategic  Implications  of  the  Soviet  Presence  in  Soma- 
lia," Orbis,  19,  No.  2,  Summer  1975,  402-11. 

Burton,  Richard.  First  Footsteps  in  East  Africa.  (Ed.,  Gordon  Water- 
field.)  (Travellers  and  Explorers  Series.)  New  York:  Praeger, 
1966. 

Caroselli,  Francesco  S.  Ferro  e  fuoco  in  Somalia.  Rome:  Sindicato 
Italiano  Arti  Grafichi,  1931. 

Cassanelli,  Lee  Vincent.  "The  Benaadir  Past:  Essays  in  Southern 
Somali  History."  (Ph.D.  dissertation,  University  of  Wisconsin, 
1973.)  Ann  Arbor:  Xerox  University  Microfilms,  74-9171. 

 The  Shaping  of  Somali  Society:  Reconstructing  the  History  of  a 

Pastoral  People,  1600-1900.  Philadelphia:  Pennsylvania  Univer- 
sity Press,  1982. 

Castagno,  Alphonso  A.,  Jr.  "The  Horn  of  Africa  and  the  Com- 
petition for  Power."  Pages  155-80  in  Alvin  J.  Cottrell  and  R.M. 
Burrell  (eds.),  The  Indian  Ocean:  Its  Political,  Economic,  and  Mili- 
tary Importance.  New  York:  Praeger,  1972. 

 Somalia.  (International  Conciliation  Series.)  New  York: 

Carnegie  Endowment  for  International  Peace,  March  1959. 

 .  "Somali  Republic."  Pages  512-59  in  James  S.  Coleman 

and  Carl  G.  Rosberg  (eds.),  Political  Parties  and  National  Integra- 
tion in  Tropical  Africa.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press, 
1964. 

Castagno,  Margaret.  Historical  Dictionary  of  Somalia.  Metuchen,  New 
Jersey:  Scarecrow  Press,  1975. 


237 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


Cerulli,  Enrico.  Somalia:  Scritti  vari  editi  ed  inediti.  (3  vols.)  Rome: 
Istituto  Poligrafico  della  Stato,  1957-64. 

Chittick,  Neville.  "An  Archaeological  Reconnaissance  of  the 
Southern  Somali  Coast,"  Azania  [Nairobi],  4,  115-30. 

Clark,  John  D.  The  Prehistoric  Cultures  of  the  Horn  of  Africa:  An  Anal- 
ysis of  the  Stone  Age  Cultural  and  Climatic  Succession  in  the  Somalilands 
and  Eastern  Parts  of  Abyssinia.  (Occasional  Publications  of  the  Cam- 
bridge University  Museum  of  Archaeology  and  Ethnology,  2.) 
Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1954. 

Collins,  Douglas.  A  Tear  for  Somalia.  London:  Jarrolds,  1960. 

Compagnon,  Daniel.  "The  Somali  Opposition  Fronts:  Some  Com- 
ments and  Questions,"  Horn  of  Africa,  13,  Nos.  1-2,  January- 
June  1990,  29-54. 

Contini,  Paolo.  The  Somali  Republic:  An  Experiment  in  Legal  Integra- 
tion. London:  Cass,  1969. 

Doornbos,  Martin  R.  "The  Shehu  and  the  Mullah:  The  Jehods 
of  Usuman  Dan  Fodio  and  Muhammad  Abd-Allah  Hassan  in 
Comparative  Perspective,"  Acta  Africana  [Geneva],  14,  No.  2, 
1975,  7-31. 

Drysdale,  John  G.  The  Somali  Dispute.  New  York:  Praeger,  1964. 
Farer,  Tom  J.  War  Clouds  on  the  Horn  of  Africa:  A  Crisis  for  Detente. 

New  York:  Carnegie  Endowment  for  International  Peace,  1976. 
FitzGibbons,  Louis.  The  Betrayal  of  the  Somalis .  London:  Collings, 

1982. 

 The  Evaded  Duty.  London:  Collings,  1985. 

Gersony,  Robert.  "Why  Somalis  Flee:  A  Synthesis  of  Accounts 
of  Conflict  Experience  in  Northern  Somalia  by  Somali  Refugees, 
Displaced  Persons,  and  Others."  Washington:  Department  of 
State,  1989. 

Gorelick,  Robert  E.  "Pan-Somali-ism  v.  Territorial  Integrity," 
Horn  of  Africa,  3,  No.  4,  October-December  1980,  31-36. 

Hancock,  Graham.  Lords  of  Poverty:  The  Power,  Prestige  and  Corrup- 
tion of  International  Aid  Business.  New  York:  Atlantic  Monthly 
Press,  1989. 

Heine,  Bernd.  "Linguistic  Evidence  on  the  Early  History  of  the 
Somali  People."  Pages  23-33  in  Hussein  M.  Adam  (ed.),  Somalia 
and  the  World:  Proceedings  of  the  International  Symposium.  Mogadishu: 
National  Printing  Press,  1979. 

Henze,  Paul  B.  The  Horn  of  Africa:  From  War  to  Peace.  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1991. 

Hess,  Robert  L.  Italian  Colonialism  in  Somalia.  Chicago:  University 
of  Chicago  Press,  1966. 

 .  "The  'Mad  Mullah'  and  Northern  Somalia,"  Journal  of 

African  History  [Cambridge],  5,  No.  3,  1964,  415-33. 


238 


Bibliography 


 .  '  'The  Poor  Man  of  God:  Muhammed  Abdullah  Hassan. ' ' 

Pages  63-108  in  Norman  R.  Bennett  (ed.),  Leadership  in  Eastern 
Africa:  Six  Political  Biographies.  Boston:  Boston  University  Press, 
1968. 

Hoskyns,  Catherine  (ed.).  The  Ethiopia-Somalia- Kenya  Dispute, 
1960-67.  (Case  Studies  in  African  Diplomacy,  No.  2.)  Dar  es 
Salaam:  Oxford  University  Press,  1969. 

Jardine,  Douglas  J.  The  Mad  Mullah  of  Somaliland.  London:  Jenkins, 
1923.  Reprint.  New  York:  Negro  Universities  Press,  1969. 

Karp,  Mark.  The  Economics  of  Trusteeship  in  Somalia.  (African  Studies 
Program  Series.)  Boston:  Boston  University  Press,  1960. 

Kebede,  Yonas.  "The  Legal  Aspect  of  the  Ethiopian-Somali  Dis- 
pute," Horn  of  Africa,  1,  No.  1,  January-March  1978,  26-31. 

Laitin,  David  D.  Politics,  Language,  and  Thought:  The  Somali  Experience. 
Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1977. 

 "Somalia's  Military  Government  and  Scientific  Social- 
ism." Pages  174-206  in  Carl  G.  Rosberg  and  Thomas  M.  Cal- 
laghy  (eds.),  Socialism  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa:  A  New  Assessment. 
Berkeley:  Institute  of  International  Studies,  University  of  Califor- 
nia Press,  1979. 

 .  "The  War  in  the  Ogaden:  Implications  for  Siyaad's  Role 

in  Somali  History,  "Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [Cambridge], 

17,  No.  1,  March  1979,  95-115. 
Laitin,  David  D.,  and  Said  S.  Samatar.  Somalia:  Nation  in  Search 

of  a  State.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 
Laurence,  Margaret.  The  Prophet's  Camel  Bell.  New  York:  Macmil- 

lan,  1963. 

Legum,  Colin  (ed.).  Africa  Contemporary  Record:  Annual  Survey  and 
Documents  (annuals  1978-1979  through  1990-1991).  New  York: 
Africana,  1980-92. 

Legum,  Colin,  and  Bill  Lee.  The  Horn  of  Africa  in  Continuing  Crisis. 
New  York:  Africana,  1979. 

Lewis,  Herbert  S.  "The  Origins  of  the  Galla  and  Somali,"  Jour- 
nal of  African  History  [Cambridge],  7,  No.  1,  1966,  27-46. 

Lewis,  I.M.  "Conformity  and  Contrast  in  Somali  Islam."  Pages 
240-52  in  I.M.  Lewis  (ed.),  Islam  in  Tropical  Africa.  (2d  ed.) 
Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1980. 

 "Dualism  in  Somalian  Notions  of  Power,"  Journal  of  the 

Royal  Anthropological  Institute  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  [London] , 
93,  Pt.  1,  January-June  1963,  109-16. 

 .  "From  Nomadism  to  Cultivation:  The  Expansion  of  Po- 
litical Solidarity  in  Southern  Somalia."  Pages  59-78  in  Mary 
Douglas  and  Phyllis  M.  Kaberry  (eds.),  Man  in  Africa.  London: 
Tavistock,  1969. 


239 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


 "Historical  Aspects  of  Genealogies  in  Northern  Somali 

Social  Structure."  Journal  of  African  History  [Cambridge],  3,  No. 
1,  1962,  35-48. 

 "In  the  Land  of  the  Mad  Mullah."  Sunday  Times  [Lon- 
don], August  30,  1992,  8-9. 

 A  Modern  History  of  Somalia:  Nation  and  State  in  the  Horn  of 

Africa.  (Rev.  ed.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 

 "Modern  Political  Movements  in  Somaliland,  1,"  Africa 

[London],  28,  No.  3,  July  1958,  244-61. 

 "Modern  Political  Movements  in  Somaliland,  2,"  Africa 

[London],  28,  No.  4,  October  1958,  344-63. 

 "The  Nation,  State,  and  Politics  in  Somalia."  Pages 

285-306  in  David  R.  Smock  and  Kwamena  Bensi-Entchill  (eds.), 
The  Search  for  National  Integration  in  Africa.  New  York:  Free  Press, 
1975. 

 "Nationalism  and  Particularism  in  Somalia."  Pages 

339-62  in  P.H.  Gulliver  (ed.),  Tradition  and  Transition  in  East  Afri- 
ca: Studies  of  the  Tribal  Element  in  the  Modern  Era.  Berkeley:  Univer- 
sity of  California  Press,  1969. 

 A  Pastoral  Democracy.  London:  Oxford  University  Press, 

1961. 

 Peoples  of  the  Horn  of  Africa:  Somali,  Afar,  and  Saho.  (Ethno- 
graphic Survey  of  Africa,  Northeastern  Africa,  Pt.  1.)  London: 
International  African  Institute,  1955.  Reprint.  London:  Inter- 
national African  Institute,  1969. 

 "The  Problem  of  the  Northern  Frontier  District  of 

Kenya,"  Race  [London],  5,  No.  1,  July  1963,  48-60. 

 "Shaikhs  and  Warriors  in  Somaliland."  Pages  204-23  in 

M.  Fortes  and  G.  Dieterlen  (eds.),  African  Systems  of  Thought.  Lon- 
don: Oxford  University  Press,  1965. 

 "The  Somali  Conquest  of  the  Horn  of  Africa, "  Journal 

of  African  History  [Cambridge],  1,  No.  2,  1960,  213-29. 

Lytton,  Lord.  The  Stolen  Desert.  London:  Macdonald,  1966. 

Marcus,  Harold  G.  The  Modern  History  of  Ethiopia  and  the  Horn  of 
Africa:  A  Select  and  Annotated  Bibliography.  Stanford:  Hoover  In- 
stitution Press,  1972. 

Martin,  Brad  G.  Muslim  Brotherhoods  in  Nineteenth  Century  Africa. 
Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1976. 

Mesfin  Wolde-Mariam.  Somalia:  The  Problem  Child  of  Africa.  Addis 
Ababa:  Addis  Ababa  University,  1977. 

Monroe,  Elizabeth,  and  Jones,  A.H.M.  A  History  of  Abyssinia.  Ox- 
ford: Oxford  University  Press,  1935. 

Pankhurst,  E.  Sylvia.  Ex-Italian  Somaliland.  New  York:  Philosophical 
Library,  1951. 


240 


Bibliography 


Payton,  Gary  D.  "The  Somali  Coup  of  1969:  The  Case  for  Soviet 
Complicity ,"  Journal  of Modern  African  Studies  [Cambridge],  18, 
No.  3,  September  1980,  493-508. 

Pestalozza,  Luigi.  The  Somalian  Revolution.  (Trans.,  Peter  Clenden- 
ing.)  Paris:  Editions  Afrique,  Asie,  Amerique  Latine,  1974. 

Pothholm,  Christian  P.  Four  African  Political  Systems.  Englewood 
Cliffs,  New  Jersey:  Prentice-Hall,  1970. 

Potter,  Pitman  B.  The  Wal  Arbitration.  (Monograph  Series,  Divi- 
sion of  International  Law,  No.  3.)  Washington:  Carnegie  En- 
dowment for  International  Peace,  1938. 

Reisman,  W.  Michael.  "The  Case  of  Western  Somaliland:  An  In- 
ternational Legal  Perspective,"  Horn  of  Africa,  1,  No.  3,  July- 
September  1978,  13-22. 

Rennell,  Francis  James.  British  Military  Administration  of  Occupied 
Territories  in  Africa  During  the  Years  1941-1947.  London:  HMSO, 
1948. 

Rivlin,  Benjamin.  The  United  Nations  and  Italian  Colonies.  (United 
Nations  Action,  Case  Histories,  No.  1.)  New  York:  Carnegie 
Endowment  for  International  Peace,  1950. 

Rubenson,  Sven.  "The  Genesis  of  the  Ethio-Somali  Conflict." 
Pages  641-57  in  Robert  L.  Hess  (ed.),  Proceedings  of  the  Fifth  In- 
ternational Conference  on  Ethiopian  Studies.  Chicago:  University  of 
Illinois,  1980. 

Samatar,  Said  S.  "How  to  Run  an  SNM  Gauntlet,"  Horn  of  Afri- 
ca, 13,  Nos.  1-2,  April-June  1990,  78-87. 

 "How  to  Save  Somalia,"  Washington  Post,  December  1, 

1992,  A19. 

 Oral  Poetry  and  Somali  Nationalism:  The  Case  of  Sayyid  Ma- 

hammad  Abdille  Hasan.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1982. 

 .  Somalia:  A  Nation  in  Turmoil.  London:  Minority  Rights 

Group  Report,  1991. 

 "The  Somali  Dilemma:  Nation  in  Search  of  a  State." 

Pages  155-94  in  Anthony  I.  Asiwaju  (ed.),  Partitioned  Africans: 
Ethnic  Relations  Across  Africa 's  International  Boundaries,  1884-1984. 
New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1985. 

Silberman,  Leo.  "The  'Mad'  Mullah:  Hero  of  Somali  National- 
ism," History  Today  [London],  10,  No.  8,  August  1960,  523-34. 

 "Why  the  Haud  Was  Ceded,"  Cahiers  d' etudes  africaines 

[Paris],  2,  No.  1,  1961,  37-83. 

Somalia.  The  Portion  of  Somali  Territory  under  Ethiopian  Colonization. 
Mogadishu:  Government  Publications,  June  1974. 

Taddesse,  Tamrat.  "Ethiopia,  the  Red  Sea,  and  the  Horn."  Pages 
99-182  in  Richard  Oliver  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  History  of  Africa, 


241 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


3:  From  c.  1050  to  c.  1600.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University 
Press,  1977. 

Thompson,  Virginia,  and  Richard  Adloff.  Djibouti  and  the  Horn  of 
Africa.  Stanford:  Stanford  University  Press,  1968. 

Touval,  Saadia.  Somali  Nationalism:  International  Politics  and  the  Drive 
for  Unity  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University 
Press,  1963. 

Turton,  E.R.  ''Bantu,  Galla,  and  Somali  Migrations  in  the  Horn 
of  Africa:  A  Reassessment  of  the  Juba-Tana  Area,"  Journal  of 
African  History  [Cambridge],  16,  No.  4,  1975,  519-37. 

 "The  Impact  of  Mohammad  Abdille  Hassan  in  the  East 

Africa  Protector ate,"  Journal  of  African  History  [Cambridge],  10, 
No.  4,  1969,  641-57. 

 "The  Isaq  Somali  Diaspora  and  Poll-Tax  Agitation  in 

Kenya,  1936-41,"  African  Affairs  [London],  73,  July  1974, 
325-46. 

 .  "Kirk  and  the  Egyptian  Invasion  of  Africa  in  1875:  A 

Reassessment, ' '  Journal  of  African  History  [Cambridge]  ,11,  No. 
3,  1970,  355-70. 

 "Somali  Resistance  to  Colonial  Rule  and  the  Develop- 
ment of  Somali  Political  Activity  in  Kenya,  1893-1960,"  Jour- 
nal of  African  History  [Cambridge],  13,  No.  1,  1972,  119-43. 


Chapter  2 

Adam,  Hussein  M.,  and  Charles  L.  Geshekter.  The  Revolutionary 
Development  of  the  Somali  Language.  (Occasional  Paper  No.  20.) 
Los  Angeles:  African  Studies  Center,  University  of  California, 
1980. 

Andrzejewski,  B.W.  "The  Art  of  the  Verbal  Message  in  Somali 
Society."  Pages  29-39  in  J.  Lucas  (ed.),  Neue-Afrikanistische  Stu- 
dien.  Hamburg:  Deutsches  Institut  fur  Afrika-Forschung,  1966. 

 "The  Development  of  a  National  Orthography  in  Soma- 
lia and  the  Modernization  of  the  Somali  Language,"  Horn  of 
Africa,  1,  No.  3,  July-September  1978,  39-45. 

 "Five  Years  of  Written  Somali:  A  Report  on  Progress  and 

Prospects,"  International  African  Institute  Bulletin  [London],  (Sup- 
plement to  Africa.)  4,  No.  4,  1977,  4-5. 

 .  "The  Introduction  of  a  National  Orthography  for  Soma- 
lia," African  Language  Studies  [London],  15,  1974,  199-203. 

Andrzejewski,  B.W.,  and  I.M.  Lewis.  Somali  Poetry:  An  Introduc- 
tion (Oxford  Library  of  African  Literature  Series.)  Oxford: 
Clarendon  Press,  1964. 


242 


Bibliography 


Aronson,  Dan  R.  ''Kinsmen  and  Comrades:  Towards  a  Class  Anal- 
ysis of  the  Somali  Pastoral  Sector,"  Nomadic  Peoples  [Montreal], 
No.  7,  November  1980,  14-23. 

Bohra,  D.M.  "Patterns  of  Urban  Settlements  in  Somalia,"  Geo 
Journal  [Wiesbaden],  3,  No.  1,  1979,  63-69. 

Cassanelli,  Lee  Vincent.  "Recent  Developments  in  Somali 
Studies,"  Horn  of  Africa,  2,  No.  1 ,  January-March  1979,  36- 
41. 

 The  Shaping  of  Somali  Society:  Reconstructing  the  History  of  a 

Pastoral  People,  1600-1900.  Philadelphia:  Pennsylvania  Univer- 
sity Press,  1982. 

Castagno,  Alphonso  A. ,  Jr.  "Somali  Republic."  Pages  512-59  in 
James  S.  Coleman  and  Carl  G.  Rosberg,  Jr.  (eds.),  Political  Parties 
and  National  Integration  in  Tropical  Africa.  Berkeley:  University  of 
California  Press,  1964. 

Castagno,  Margaret.  Historical  Dictionary  of  Somalia.  Metuchen,  New 
Jersey:  Scarecrow  Press,  1975. 

Cerulli,  Enrico.  "Islam  in  East  Africa."  Pages  203-19  in  A.J.  Ar- 
berry  (ed.),  Religion  in  the  Middle  East,  2:  Islam.  Cambridge:  Cam- 
bridge University  Press,  1969. 

 Somalia:  Scritti  vari  editi  ed  inediti.  (3  vols.)  Rome:  Istituto 

Poligrafico  dello  Stato,  1957-64. 

Christensen,  Hanne.  Survival  Strategies  for  and  by  Camp  Refugees.  Gene- 
va: United  Nations  Research  Institute  for  Social  Development, 
1982. 

Contini,  Paolo.  "The  Evolution  of  Blood-Money  for  Homicide  in 
Somalia,"  Journal  of  African  Law  [London],  15,  No.  1,  Spring 
1971,  77-84. 

Fisher,  Humphrey.  "The  Western  and  Central  Sudan  and  East 
Africa."  Pages  345-405  in  P.M.  Holt,  Ann  K.S.  Lambton,  and 
Bernard  Lewis  (eds.),  The  Cambridge  History  of  Islam:  The  Further 
Islamic  Lands,  Islamic  Society  and  Civilization.  Cambridge:  Cam- 
bridge University  Press:  1970. 

Galaal,  M.,  and  B. W.  Andrzejewski.  "A  Somali  Poetic  Combat," 
Journal  of  African  Languages  and  Linguistics  [London],  2,  Pt.  1,  1963, 
180-91. 

Ganzglass,  Martin  R.  "The  Somali  Refugees,"  Human  Rights,  8, 
Winter  1980,  28-33,  55-56. 

Geshekter,  Charles  L.  "Language,  Politics,  and  University  Teach- 
ing in  Somalia,"  Horn  of  Africa,  1,  No.  1 ,  January- March  1978, 
11-17. 

 "Socio- Economic  Developments  in  Somalia,"  Horn  of  Afri- 
ca, 2,  No.  2,  April-June  1979,  24-36. 
Griffiths,  J.F.  "The  Horn  of  Africa."  Pages  133-65  inJ.F.  Griffiths 


243 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

(ed.),  Climates  of  Africa.  (World  Survey  of  Climatology,  No.  10.) 
Amsterdam:  Elsevier,  1972. 

Hance,  William  A.  The  Geography  of  Africa.  (2d  ed.)  New  York: 
Columbia  University  Press,  1975. 

International  Labour  Organisation.  Jobs  and  Skills  Programme 
for  Africa.  Economic  Transformation  in  a  Socialist  Framework:  An  Em- 
ployment and  Basic  Needs  Oriented  Development  Strategy  for  Somalia. 
Addis  Ababa:  1977. 

Janna  Dahir,  Osman,  and  Muse  Hussein  Askar.  "Introduction 
of  the  Written  Somali  Language."  Pages  58-64  in  Educational 
Reforms  and  Innovations  in  Africa.  Paris:  United  Nations  Educa- 
tional, Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization,  1978. 

Kateregga,  Badru  D.,  and  David  Shenk.  Islam  and  Christianity:  A 
Muslim  and  a  Christian  in  Dialogue.  Nairobi:  Uzima  Press,  1980. 

Konczachi,  Z.A.  "Nomadism  and  Economic  Development  of 
Somalia,"  Canadian  Journal  of  African  Studies  [Montreal],  1,  No. 
2,  1967,  163-75. 

Laitin,  David  D.  Politics,  Language,  and  Thought:  The  Somali  Experience. 
Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1977. 

Laitin,  David  D.,  and  Said  S.  Samatar.  Somalia:  Nation  in  Search 
of  a  State.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 

Laurence,  Margaret.  The  Prophet's  Camel  Bell.  New  York:  Macmil- 
lan,  1963. 

Lewis,  I.M.  "Conformity  and  Contrast  in  Somali  Islam."  Pages 
240-52  in  I.M.  Lewis  (ed.),  Islam  in  Tropical  Africa.  (2d  ed.) 
Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1980. 

 "Dualism  in  Somalian  Notions  of  Power,"  Journal  of  the 

Royal  Anthropological  Institute  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  [London], 
93,  Pt.  1,  January-June  1963,  109-16. 

 "From  Nomadism  to  Cultivation:  The  Expansion  of  Po- 
litical Solidarity  in  Southern  Somalia."  Pages  59-78  in  Mary 
Douglas  and  Phyllis  M.  Kaberry  (eds.),  Man  in  Africa.  London: 
Tavistock,  1969. 

 .  "Kim  Il-Sung  in  Somalia:  End  of  Tribalism?"  Pages 

13-44  in  William  A.  Shack  and  Percy  S.  Cohen  (eds.),  Politics 
in  Leadership.  Oxford:  Clarendon  Press,  1979. 

 .  "Literacy  in  Nomadic  Society:  The  Somali  Case."  Pages 

265-76  in  Jack  Goody  (ed.),  Literacy  in  Traditional  Societies.  Lon- 
don: Cambridge  University  Press,  1968. 

 .  "The  Nation,  State,  and  Politics  in  Somalia."  Pages  285- 

306  in  David  R.  Smock  and  Kwamena  Bentsi-Enchill  (eds.),  The 
Search  for  National  Integration  in  Africa.  New  York:  Free  Press,  1975. 

 .  "Nationalism  and  Particularism  in  Somalia."  Pages 

339-62  in  P.H.  Gulliver  (ed.),  Tradition  and  Transition  in  East 


244 


Bibliography 


Africa:  Studies  of  the  Tribal  Element  in  the  Modern  Era.  Berke- 
ley: University  of  California  Press,  1969. 

 A  Pastoral  Democracy.  London:  Oxford  University  Press, 

1961. 

 .  Peoples  of  the  Horn  of  Africa:  Somali,  Afar,  and  Saho.  (Ethno- 
graphic Survey  of  Africa,  Northeastern  Africa,  Pt.  1.)  London: 
International  African  Institute,  1955.  Reprint.  London:  Inter- 
national African  Institute,  1969. 

 "Shaikhs  and  Warriors  in  Somaliland."  Pages  204-23  in 

M.  Fortes  and  G.  Dieterlen  (eds.),  African  Systems  of  Thought.  Lon- 
don: Oxford  University  Press,  1965. 

 .  Somali  Culture,  History,  and  Social  Institutions:  An  Introducto- 
ry Guide  to  the  Somali  Democratic  Republic.  London:  London  School 
of  Economics  and  Political  Science,  1981. 

 "Spirit  Possession  in  Northern  Somaliland."  Pages 

188-219  in  John  Beattie  and  John  Middleton  (eds.),  Spirit  Medi- 
umship  and  Society  in  Africa.  New  York:  Africana,  1969. 

 .  "Sufism  in  Somaliland:  A  Study  in  Tribal  Islam,"  Bulle- 
tin of  the  School  of  Oriental  and  African  Studies  [London],  17,  No. 
3,  1955,  581-602. 

 "Sufism  in  Somaliland:  A  Study  in  Tribal  Islam,"  Bulle- 
tin of  the  School  of  Oriental  and  African  Studies  [London],  18,  No. 
1,  1956,  146-60. 

Lewis,  I.M.  (ed.).  Abaar:  The  Somali  Drought.  London:  International 
African  Institute,  1975. 

Luling,  Virginia.  "Colonial  and  Postcolonial  Influences  on  a  South 
Somali  Community, "  Journal  of  African  Studies,  17,  No.  4,  Winter 
1976,  491-511. 

Martin,  Brad  G.  Muslim  Brotherhoods  in  Nineteenth  Century  Africa. 

Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1976. 
Melander,  Goran.  Refugees  in  Somalia.  (Research  Report  No.  56.) 

Uppsala,  Sweden:  Scandinavian  Institute  of  African  Studies, 

1980. 

Mountj oy,  Alan  B.,  and  Clifford  Embleton.  Africa:  A  New  Geographic 
Survey.  New  York:  Praeger,  1967. 

Prins,  A.H.J.  "Notes  on  the  Boni:  Tribe  of  Hunters  in  Northern 
Kenya,"  Bulletin  of  the  International  Committee  on  Urgent  Anthropo- 
logical Research  [Vienna],  No.  3,  1960,  25-28. 

Puzo,  William  Daniel.  Mogadishu,  Somalia:  Geographic  Assets  of  Its 
Evolution,  Population,  Functions,  and  Morphology.  (Ph.  D.  disserta- 
tion. University  of  California  at  Los  Angeles,  1972.)  Ann  Ar- 
bor: Xerox  University  Microfilms,  73-10465. 

Rabile  Goad,  Muse.  "The  Hunters  of  Somalia,"  World  Health, 
October  1979. 


245 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Rattray,  J.M.  The  Grass  Cover  of  Africa.  Rome:  Food  and  Agricul- 
ture Organization  of  the  United  Nations,  1960. 

Rousseau,  Rudolph.  An  Assessment  of  the  Refugee  Situation  in  Soma- 
lia: A  Staff  Report  Washington:  GPO,  1980. 

Samatar,  Said  S.  "The  Ethio-Somali  Conflict  and  Its  Regional  Impli- 
cations." Pages  48-55  in  Proceedings  of  the  First  Conference  on  the 
Horn  of  Africa.  New  York:  New  School  for  Social  Research,  1987. 

 .  "Gabay-Hayir:  A  Somali  Mock  Heroic  Song,"  Research 

in  African  Literatures,  11,  No.  4,  1980,  449-78. 

 .  "How  to  Run  an  SNM  Gauntlet,"  Horn  of  Africa,  13,  Nos. 

1-2,  April-June  1990,  78-87. 

 .  "Islamic  Way  of  Thinking."  Pages  156-73  in  Un-Chol 

Shiun  and  Anne  P.  Brooks  (eds.),  Humanities  Approach  to  Differ- 
ent Ways  of  Thinking:  An  Anthology.  Dubuque,  Iowa:  Kendall  Hunt, 
1983. 

 Oral  Poetry  and  Somali  Nationalism:  The  Case  of  Sayyid  Ma- 

hammad  Abdille  Hasan.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1982. 

 .  "Pastoral  Heritage."  Transaction  Society,  2,  No.  5,  1984, 

76-79. 

 "Somali  Dilemma:  Nation  in  Search  of  a  State."  Pages 

155-94  in  Anthony  Asiwaju  (ed.),  Partitioned  Africans:  Ethnic  Re- 
lations Across  Africa 's  International  Boundaries,  1884-1984.  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1985. 

 .  "Somali  Verbal  and  Material  Arts."  Pages  27-32  in  John 

Loughran,  Katheryne  Loughran,  John  Johnson,  and  Said  S. 
Samatar  (eds.),  Somalia  in  Word  and  Image.  Washington:  Foun- 
dation for  Cross-Cultural  Understanding,  1986. 

Samatar,  Said  S.  (ed.).  In  the  Shadow  of  Conquest:  Islam  in  Colonial 
Northeast  Africa.  Trenton:  Red  Sea  Press,  1992. 

Sheikh- Abdi,  Abdi.  "Ideology  and  Leadership  in  Somalia, "  Jour- 
nal of  Modern  African  Studies  [Cambridge],  19,  No.  1,  March  1981, 
163-72. 

Slottred,  Astrid  M.  "Role  of  Women  in  the  Somali  Revolution," 
Horn  of  Africa,  2,  No.  2,  April-June  1979,  15-21. 

Somalia.  Ministry  of  National  Planning  and  Jubba  Valley  Develop- 
ment. Short-  and  Long-Term  Programme  for  Refugees  in  the  Somali 
Democratic  Republic.  Mogadishu:  April  1981. 

 Ministry  of  National  Planning  and  Jubba  Valley  Develop- 
ment. Somalia:  Country  Programme  for  the  1980s  for  Presentation  to 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least  Developed  Countries. 
Mogadishu:  January  1981. 

Somalia.  State  Planning  Commission.  Central  Statistical  Depart- 
ment. Statistical  Abstract,  1978.  Mogadishu:  July  1979. 


246 


Bibliography 


 .  State  Planning  Commission.  Central  Statistical  Depart- 
ment. Three-Year  Plan,  1979-1981.  Mogadishu:  1979. 

Swift,  Jeremy.  "The  Development  of  Livestock  Trading  in  a 
Nomad  Pastoral  Economy:  The  Somali  Case."  Pages  447-65 
in  Pastoral  Production  and  Society.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  Univer- 
sity Press,  1979. 

 .  "Pastoral  Development  in  Somalia:  Herding  Cooperatives 

as  a  Strategy  Against  Desertification  and  Famine."  Pages 
275-305  in  Michael  H.  Glantz  (ed.),  Desertification:  Environment 
Degradation  in  and  Around  Arid  Lands.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1977. 

United  Nations  Economic  and  Social  Council.  Humanitarian  As- 
sistance Programmes  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commission  for  Refu- 
gees in  Somalia  and  other  Countries  in  the  Horn  of  Africa:  Report  of  the 
Mission  to  Somalia  (December  10  to  16,  1979).  N.p.,  1980. 

United  States.  Committee  for  Refugees.  Beyond  the  Headlines:  Refugees 
in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Washington:  1988. 

United  States.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services.  Public 
Health  Service.  Centers  for  Disease  Control.  "Malnutrition — 
Somalia,"  MMWR:  Morbidity  and  Mortality  Weekly  Report,  9,  No. 
36,  September  12,  1980. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Agency  for  International  De- 
velopment. "Settling  the  Nomads:  AID,  Somalia  Cooperate  in 
Building  Permanent  Farming  Villages,"  Agenda,  March  1979, 
16-19. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  New  York  Times  and  Washington  Post. ) 


Chapter  3 

Abdi,  Ali  Issa.  Commercial  Banks  and  Economic  Development:  The  Ex- 
perience of  Eastern  Africa.  New  York:  Praeger,  1977. 

Aronson,  Dan  R.  "Kinsmen  and  Comrades:  Towards  a  Class  Anal- 
ysis of  the  Somali  Pastoral  Sector,"  Nomadic  Peoples  [Montreal], 
No.  7,  November  1980,  14-23. 

Decraene,  Philippe.  Ly experience  socialiste  somalienne.  Paris:  Berger- 
Levrault,  1977. 

Dolley,  Margaret.  (Rev.,  Miles  Smith-Morris.)  "Somalia:  Econ- 
omy." Pages  755-63  in  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  1993.  London: 
Europa,  1992. 

Geshekter,  Charles  L.  "Anti-Colonialism  and  Class  Formation: 
The  Eastern  Horn  of  Africa."  Pages  216-66  in  Thomas  Labahn 


247 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


(ed.),  Proceedings  of  the  Second  International  Congress  of  Somali  Studies, 
2:  Archeology  and  History.  Hamburg:  Helmut  Buske,  1984. 

Gray,  Albert.  "Economic  Problems  of  the  Somali  Democratic 
Republic. ' '  (Paper  presented  at  African  Studies  Association  An- 
nual Meeting,  New  Orleans,  1985.) 

Gulhati,  Ravi.  The  Making  of  Economic  Policy  in  Africa. 
Washington:  World  Bank,  1989. 

Haaland,  Gunnar,  and  Willem  Keddeman.  "Poverty  Analysis:  The 
Case  of  Rural  Somalia, ' '  Economic  Development  and  Cultural  Change, 
32,  No.  4,  1984,  843-60. 

International  Labour  Organisation.  Somalia:  Project  Findings  and 
Recommendations.  Geneva:  United  Nations  Development  Pro- 
gramme, 1977. 

Jamal,  Vali.  "Somalia:  Understanding  an  Unconventional  Econ- 
omy," Development  and  Change,  19,  No.  2,  April  1988,  203-65. 

Jaspa  Employment  Advisory  Mission.  Economic  Transformation  in 
a  Socialist  Framework:  An  Employment  and  Basic  Needs  Oriented  De- 
velopment Strategy  for  Somalia.  Addis  Ababa:  International  Labour 
Organisation,  1977. 

Karp,  Marc.  The  Economics  of  Trusteeship  in  Somalia.  Boston:  Boston 
University  Press,  1960. 

Labahn,  Thomas  (ed.).  Proceedings  of  the  Second  International  Congress 
of  Somali  Studies,  3:  Aspects  of  Development.  Hamburg:  Helmut 
Buske,  1984. 

Laitin,  David  D.  "Somalia's  Military  Government  and  Scientific 
Socialism."  Pages  174-206  in  Carl  G.  Rosberg  and  Thomas  M. 
Callaghy  (eds.),  Socialism  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa:  A  New  Assessment. 
Berkeley:  Institute  of  International  Studies,  University  of  Califor- 
nia Press,  1979. 

Laitin,  David  D.,  and  Said  S.  Samatar.  "Somalia  and  the  World 
Economy,"  Review  of  African  Political  Economy  [Sheffield,  United 
Kingdom],  No.  30,  September  1984,  58-72. 

 Somalia:  Nation  in  Search  of  a  State.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1987. 

Lewis,  I.M.  (ed.).  Abaar:  The  Somali  Drought.  London:  International 
African  Institute,  1975. 

Massey,  Garth.  Subsistence  and  Change:  Lessons  of  Agropastoralism  in 
Somalia.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 

Miller,  Norman.  The  Other  Somalia,  Pts.  1-2.  (American  Universi- 
ties Field  Staff,  Fieldstaff  Reports,  Africa,  Nos.  29-30.)  Hanover, 
New  Hampshire:  AUFS,  1981. 

Rosberg,  Carl  G.,  and  Thomas  M.  Callaghy  (eds.).  Socialism  in 
Sub-Saharan  Africa:  A  New  Assessment.  Berkeley:  Institute  of  In- 
ternational Studies,  University  of  California  Press,  1979. 


248 


Bibliography 


Samatar,  Abdi  Ismail.  The  State  and  Rural  Transformation  in  Northern 
Somalia,  1884-1986.  Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press, 
1989. 

Samatar,  Ahmed.  Socialist  Somalia:  Rhetoric  and  Reality.  London:  Zed 
Books,  1988. 

Schneider,  Harold  K.  Livestock  and  Equality  in  East  Africa.  Blooming- 
ton:  Indiana  University  Press,  1979. 

Serageldin,  Ismail.  Poverty,  Adjustment,  and  Growth  in  Africa.  Washing- 
ton: World  Bank,  1989. 

Somalia.  Ministry  of  Commerce.  Somali  Trade  Information  Manual. 
Mogadishu:  1978. 

 Ministry  of  Local  Government  and  Rural  Development. 

Somalia's  Rural  Development  Strategy,  1981-1990.  Mogadishu:  1981. 

 Ministry  of  National  Planning  and  Jubba  Valley  Develop- 
ment. Annual  Development  Plan,  1986.  Mogadishu:  1985. 

 Ministry  of  National  Planning  and  Jubba  Valley  Develop- 
ment. Central  Statistical  Department.  National  Accounts  Aggregates, 
1977-1988.  Mogadishu:  1990. 

 Ministry  of  National  Planning  and  Jubba  Valley  Develop- 
ment. Planning  Department.  Performance  of  the  Somali  Economy, 
1988.  Mogadishu:  1989. 

 Ministry  of  National  Planning  and  Jubba  Valley  Develop- 
ment. Somalia  in  Figures.  (10th  ed.)  Mogadishu:  1989. 

"  Somalia:  Statistical  Survey."  Pages  899-902  in  Africa  South  of  the 
Sahara,  1992.  London:  Europa,  1991. 

United  Nations  Fund  for  Population  Activities.  Somalia:  Report  of 
Mission  on  Needs  Assessment  for  Population  Assistance.  New  York: 
1979. 

World  Bank.  Financing  Adjustment  with  Growth  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa, 

1986-90.  Washington:  1986. 

 World  Development  Report,  1989.  Washington:  1989. 

 World  Tables,  1989.  Baltimore:  Johns  Hopkins  University 

Press,  1990. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Economist,  Quarterly  Economic  Review: 
Uganda,  Ethiopia,  Somalia  [London];  Foreign  Broadcast  Informa- 
tion Service,  Daily  Report:  Sub-Saharan  Africa;  Middle  East  Economic 
Digest  [London];  and  New  York  Times.) 

Chapter  4 

Adam,  Hussein  M.  (ed.).  Somalia  and  the  World.  Mogadishu:  State 
Printing  Press,  1980. 


249 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


Africa  Watch.  Somalia:  A  Government  at  War  with  Its  Own  People.  New 
York:  1990. 

Amnesty  International.  Somalia:  Report  on  an  Amnesty  International 
Visit  and  Current  Human  Rights  Concerns.  London:  1990. 

Ayoob,  Mohammed.  "The  Horn  of  Africa."  Pages  136-70  in  Mo- 
hammed Ayoob  (ed.),  Conflict  and  Intervention  in  the  Third  World. 
New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1980. 

Barre,  Abdurahman  Jama.  Salient  Aspects  of  Somalia's  Foreign  Poli- 
cy: Selected  Speeches.  Mogadishu:  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  1978. 

Biles,  Peter.  "Somalia,  Starting  from  Scratch,"  Africa  Report,  36, 
No.  3,  May-June  1991,  55-59. 

Cahill,  Kevin  M.  Somalia:  A  Perspective.  Albany:  State  University 
of  New  York  Press,  1980. 

Compagnon,  Daniel.  "The  Somali  Opposition  Fronts:  Some  Com- 
ments and  Questions,"  Horn  of  Africa,  13,  Nos.  1-2,  January- 
June  1990,  29-54. 

Dagne,  Theodore.  "Somalia:  Current  Conditions  and  U.S.  Policy." 
(Library  of  Congress,  Congressional  Research  Service,  Report 
for  Congress,  90-252F.)  Washington:  May  12,  1990. 

Dry  sdale,  John.  Somaliland:  The  Anatomy  of  Secession.  Hove,  Sussex, 
United  Kingdom:  Global-Stats,  1991. 

Ganzglass,  Martin  R.  "Somali  Democratic  Republic."  Pages  1-28 
in  Albert  P.  Blaustein  and  Gisbert  H.  Flanz  (eds.),  Constitutions 
of  the  Countries  of  the  World.  Dobbs  Ferry,  New  York:  Oceana, 
1979. 

Greenfield,  Richard.  "Siad's  Sad  Legacy,"  Africa  Report,  36,  No. 

2,  March- April  1991,  13-18. 

Henze,  Paul  B.  "How  Stable  Is  Siad  Barre's  Regime?"  Africa 
Report,  27,  No.  2,  March-April  1992,  54-58. 

Hughes,  Anthony.  "Somalia's  Socialist  Road,"  Africa  Report,  22, 
No.  2,  March-April  1977,  41-49. 

Korn,  David,  Steven  Dorr,  and  Neysa  Slater  (eds.).  The  Horn  of 
Africa  and  Arabia:  Conference  Papers.  Washington:  Defense  Aca- 
demic Research  Support  Program,  1990. 

Laitin,  David  D.  "The  Political  Economy  of  Military  Rule  in 
Somalia,"  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [Cambridge],  14,  No. 

3,  September  1976,  449-68. 

 "Somalia's  Military  Government  and  Scientific  Social- 
ism." Pages  174-206  in  Carl  G.  Rosberg  and  Thomas  M.  Cal- 
laghy  (eds.),  Socialism  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa:  A  New  Assessment. 
Berkeley:  Institute  of  International  Studies,  University  of  Califor- 
nia Press,  1979. 

Laitin,  David  D.,  and  Said  S.  Samatar.  Somalia:  Nation  in  Search 
of  a  State.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 


250 


Bibliography 


Lapidus,  Ira.  A  History  of  Islamic  Societies.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1988. 

Larrabee,  F.  Stephen.  After  the  Break:  Soviet-Somali  Relations.  New 
York:  Radio  Liberty  Research,  1978. 

 Somali-Soviet  Relations  in  the  Light  of  Siad  Bane's  Visit  to 

Moscow.  New  York:  Radio  Liberty  Research,  1977. 

Lefebvre,  Jeffrey  A.  Arms  for  the  Horn:  U.S.  Security  Policy  in  Ethio- 
pia and  Somalia,  1953-1991.  Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pittsburgh 
Press,  1991. 

Lewis,  I.M.  A  Modern  History  of  Somalia:  Nation  and  State  in  the  Horn 
of  Africa.  (Rev.  ed.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 

 "The  Nation,  State,  and  Politics  in  Somalia."  Pages 

285-306  in  David  R.  Smock  and  Kwamena  Bentsi-Enchill  (eds.), 
The  Search  for  National  Integration  in  Africa.  New  York:  Free  Press, 
1975. 

 "The  Ogaden  and  the  Fragility  of  Somali  Segmentary  Na- 
tionalism, "  African  Affairs  [London],  88,  No.  353,  October  1989, 
573-79. 

 .  "Somalia:  Recent  History."  (Rev.,  Miles  Smith-Morris.) 

Pages  888-94  in  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  1992.  London:  Euro- 
pa,  1991. 

The  Military  Balance  (annuals  1982-1983  through  1990-1991).  Lon- 
don: International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  1982  through 
1990. 

Muhammad,  Haji  N.A.  Noor.  The  Legal  System  of  the  Somali  Democrat- 
ic Republic.  (Legal  Systems  of  Africa  Series.)  Charlottesville,  Vir- 
ginia: Michie,  1972. 

Pay  ton,  Gary  D.  "The  Somali  Coup  of  1969:  The  Case  of  Soviet 
Complicity, ' '  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [Cambridge]  ,18, 
No.  3,  September  1980,  493-508. 

Rajab,  Ahmed.  "Somalia:  New  Constitution,  Old  Powers,"  New 
African  [London],  No.  146,  October  1979,  59-60. 

Samatar,  Abdi  Ismail.  The  State  and  Rural  Transformation  in  Northern 
Somalia,  1884-1986.  Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press, 
1989. 

Samatar,  Ahmed  I.  "The  Contours  of  Contemporary  Somali  Pol- 
itics." Pages  27-39  in  David  Korn,  Steven  Dorr,  and  Neysa  Slater 
(eds.),  The  Horn  of  Africa  and  Arabia:  Conference  Papers.  Washing- 
ton: Defense  Academic  Research  Support  Program,  1990. 

 Socialist  Somalia:  Rhetoric  and  Reality.  London:  Zed  Books, 

1988. 

Samuels,  Michael  A.  (ed.),  The  Horn  of  Africa.  Washington:  Center 
for  Strategic  and  International  Studies,  Georgetown  Universi- 
ty, 1978. 


251 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

Schraeder,  Peter  J.,  "The  Horn  of  Africa:  US  Foreign  Policy  in 
an  Altered  Cold  War  Environment,"  Middle  East  Journal,  46, 
No.  4,  Autumn  1992,  571-93. 

Sheik- Abdi,  Abdi.  "Ideology  and  Leadership  in  Somalia, "  Jour- 
nal of  Modern  African  Studies  [Cambridge],  19,  No.  1,  March  1981, 
163-72. 

 "Somali  Nationalism:  Its  Origins  and  Future,"  Journal 

of  Modern  African  Studies  [Cambridge],  15,  No.  4,  1977,  657-65. 

"Somalia."  Pages  201-4  in  Amnesty  International  Report,  1991.  New 
York:  1991. 

Statesman's  Year-Book,  1990-1991.  (Ed.,  John  Paxton.)  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1990. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights 
Practices  for  1991.  (Report  Submitted  to  United  States  Congress, 
102d,  2d  Session,  House  of  Representatives,  Committee  on  For- 
eign Affairs,  and  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations.) 
Washington:  GPO,  February  1992. 

Vassallucci,  Jean-Louis,  "La  secession  apres  la  guerre,"  Jeune 
Afrique  [Paris],  31,  No.  1589,  June  12,  1991,  22-23. 

Yodfat,  Aryeh  Y.  "The  Soviet  Union  and  the  Horn  of  Africa," 
Northeast  African  Studies,  2,  No.  2,  Fall  1980,  65-75. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Confidential  [London];  Africa 
Contemporary  Record;  African  Development  [London];  Africa  Today;  Asian 
and  African  Studies  [Bratislava,  Slovakia];  Christian  Science  Monitor; 
Current  History;  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Report:  Ugan- 
da, Ethiopia,  Somalia,  Djibouti  [London];  Foreign  Broadcast  Infor- 
mation Service,  Daily  Report:  Middle  East  and  Africa;  Horn  of  Africa; 
Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [Cambridge];  Le  Monde  [Paris];  Le 
Nouvel  Afrique  Asie  [Paris];  Marches  tropicaux  et  mediterraneans  [Paris]; 
New  African  [London];  New  York  Times;  Revue frangaise  d' etudes poli- 
tiques  africaines  [Paris];  and  Washington  Post.) 


Chapter  5 

Africa  Contemporary  Record:  Annual  Survey  and  Documents  (annuals 
1982-1983  through  1991-1992).  (Ed.,  Colin  Legum.)  New  York: 
Africana,  1982  through  1991. 

Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  1993.  London:  Europa,  1992. 

Africa  Watch.  Human  Rights  Abuses  and  Civil  War  in  the  North:  A  Report 
from  the  U.S.  General  Accounting  Office.  New  York:  1989. 

 .  Somalia:  Evading  Reality.  New  York:  1990. 


252 


Bibliography 


 .  Somalia:  A  Fight  to  the  Death?  New  York:  1992. 

 .  Somalia:  A  Government  at  War  with  Its  Own  People.  New  York: 

1990. 

 .  Somalia:  The  Government 's  Inadequate  Response  to  the  Killing 

and  Arrests  of  Demonstrators.  New  York:  1989. 

 Somalia:  No  Mercy  in  Mogadishu.  New  York:  1992. 

 .  Somalia:  Tiananmen  Square  Revisited.  New  York:  1989. 

 Somalia:  An  Update  on  Human  Rights  Developments  Since  Mid- 
July.  New  York:  1989. 

 Somalia:  Women  in  Prison.  New  York:  1989. 

Amnesty  International.  Somalia:  Imprisonment  of  Members  of  the  Isaaq 

Clan  since  Mid- 1988.  New  York:  1988. 

 Somalia:  A  Long-Term  Human  Rights  Crisis.  New  York:  1988. 

 .  Somalia:  Report  on  an  Amnesty  International  Visit  and  Current 

Human  Rights  Concerns.  London:  1990. 
Bartlett,  Dewey  F.  "The  Soviet  Presence  in  Somalia."  Pages 

136-70  in  Roger  Pearson  (ed.),  Sino-Soviet  Intervention  in  Africa. 

Washington:  Council  on  American  Affairs,  1977. 
Battesby,  H.F.P.  Richard  Corfield  of  Somaliland.  London:  Arnold, 

1914. 

Beachey,  Ray.  The  Warrior  Mullah:  The  Horn  Aflame,  1892-1920. 
London:  Bellew,  1990. 

Bongartz,  Maria.  The  Civil  War  in  Somalia:  Its  Genesis  and  Dynam- 
ics. Uppsala,  Sweden:  Scandinavian  Institute  of  African  Affairs, 
1991. 

Clayton,  Anthony,  and  David  Killingray.  Khaki  and  Blue:  Military 
and  Police  in  British  Colonial  Africa.  Athens:  Ohio  University  Center 
for  International  Studies,  1989. 

Compagnon,  Daniel.  "The  Somali  Opposition  Fronts,"  Horn  of 
Africa,  13,  Nos.  1-2,  January-June  1990,  29-54. 

Culmie,  Afrah  Hussein.  "The  Blue  Berets  of  the  Somali  Repub- 
lic," International  Police  Academy  Review,  1,  No.  2,  April  1967,  1-3, 
16-17. 

Dagne,  Theodore.  "Somalia:  A  Country  at  War — Prospects  for 
Peace  and  Reconciliation."  (Library  of  Congress,  Congressional 
Research  Service,  92-522F.)  Washington:  June  15,  1992. 

 .  "Somalia:  Current  Conditions  and  U.S.  Policy."  (Library 

of  Congress,  Congressional  Research  Service,  90-252F.) 
Washington:  May  12,  1990. 

 .  Somalia:  War  and  Famine.  (Library  of  Congress,  Congres- 
sional Research  Service,  Major  Issues  System,  IB92-112.) 
Washington:  September  23,  1992. 

Desfosses,  Helen.  "Naval  Strategy  and  Aid  Policy:  A  Study  of 
Soviet-Somali  Relations."  Pages  183-201  in  Warren  Weinstein 


253 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

(ed.),  Chinese  and  Soviet  Aid  to  Africa.  New  York:  Praeger,  1975. 
Dougherty,  James  E.  The  Horn  of  Africa:  A  Map  of  Political- Strategic 
Conflict.  Cambridge,  Massachusetts:  Institute  for  Foreign  Policy 
Analysis,  1982. 

Dower,  K.C.  The  First  to  be  Freed:  A  Record  of  the  Campaign  and  Brit- 
ish Military  Administration  in  Eritrea  and  Somalia,  1941-1943.  Lon- 
don: HMSO,  1944. 

Dry sdale,  John  G.  The  Somali  Dispute.  New  York:  Praeger,  1964. 

Dunn,  Michael  Collins.  "Somali  General's  Secret  Memo  Details 
Crackdown  Against  Northern  Guerrillas, ' '  Defense  and  Foreign  Af- 
fairs Daily,  April  24,  1987,  1-4. 

El-Khawas,  Mohamed  A.  "Arab  Involvement  in  the  Horn  of  Afri- 
ca: The  Ogaden  War ,"  Journal for  Arab  and  Islamic  Studies  [Oslo], 
2,  Nos.  3-4,  1981,  567-82. 

Ethiopia.  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs.  Memorandum:  War  Drums  on 
the  Horn  of  Africa — March  of  Somalia's  Expansionism.  Addis  Aba- 
ba: Berhanena  Selam  Press,  1977. 

Farer,  Tom  J.  War  Clouds  on  the  Horn  of  Africa:  A  Crisis  for  Detente. 
New  York:  Carnegie  Endowment  for  International  Peace,  1976. 

Garthoff,  Raymond  L.  Detente  and  Confrontation:  American-Soviet  Rela- 
tions from  Nixon  to  Reagan.  Washington:  Brookings  Institution,  1985. 

Gavshon,  Arthur.  Crisis  in  Africa:  Battleground  of  East  and  West.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1981. 

Gilkes,  Patrick.  "Somalia:  Conflicts  Within  and  Against  the  Mili- 
tary Regime,"  Review  of  African  Political  Economy  [Sheffield,  United 
Kingdom],  No.  44,  1989,  53-58. 

Henze,  Paul  B.  "Arming  the  Horn,  1960-1980:  Military  Expen- 
ditures, Arms  Imports,  and  Military  Aid  in  Ethiopia,  Kenya, 
Somalia,  and  Sudan,  with  Statistics  on  Economic  Growth  and 
Governmental  Expenditures."  Pages  637-56  in  Sven  Ruben- 
son  (ed.),  Proceedings  of  the  Seventh  International  Conference  of  Ethio- 
pian Studies.  Uppsala,  Sweden:  Scandinavian  Institute  of  African 
Studies,  1984. 

Hess,  Robert  L.  "  'The  Mad  Mullah'  and  Northern  Somalia," 
Journal  of  African  History  [Cambridge],  5,  No.  3,  1964,  415-33. 

 .  "The  Poor  Man  of  God:  Muhammad  Abdullah  Hassan. ' ' 

Pages  63-108  in  Norman  R.  Bennett  (ed.),  Leadership  in  Eastern 
Africa:  Six  Political  Biographies.  Boston:  Boston  University  Press, 
1968. 

Hoskyns,  Catherine  (ed.).  The  Ethiopia-Somali-Kenya  Dispute, 
1960-67.  (Case  Studies  in  African  Diplomacy,  No.  2.)  Dar  es 
Salaam:  Published  for  the  Institute  of  Public  Administration, 
University  College,  Dar  es  Salaam,  by  Oxford  University  Press, 
1969. 


254 


Bibliography 


Hurreh,  Ismail.  "Peace  for  the  Horn  of  Africa  in  the  Political  Pro- 
gram of  the  SNM. ' '  Pages  19-23  in  Proceedings  of  the  Fourth  Inter- 
national Conference  on  the  Horn  of  Africa.  New  York:  City  College 
of  the  City  University  of  New  York,  1990. 

Jardine,  Douglas  J.  The  Mad  Mullah  of  Somaliland.  London:  Her- 
bert Jenkins,  1923.  Reprint.  New  York:  Negro  Universities 
Press,  1969. 

Johnson,  Donald  M.  "Somalia:  Security  Assistance  in  the  Horn 
of  Africa,"  DISAM  Journal,  7,  No.  1,  Fall  1984,  20-41. 

Killingray,  David.  "  'A  Swift  Agent  of  Government':  Air  Power 
in  British  Colonial  Africa,  1916-1939,  "Journal  of  African  Histo- 
ry [Cambridge],  25,  No.  4,  1984,  429-44. 

Kilmer,  Robert.  United  States  and  Soviet  Military  Aid  to  Somalia:  A 
Comparative  Analysis  of  Security  Assistance.  Maxwell  Air  Force  Base, 
Alabama:  Air  Command  and  Staff  College,  1985. 

Laitin,  David  D.  "The  Political  Economy  of  Military  Rule  in 
Somalia,  "Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [Cambridge],  14,  No. 
3,  September  1976,  449-68. 

 "Somalia's  Military  Government  and  Scientific  Social- 
ism." Pages  174-206  in  Carl  G.  Rosberg  and  Thomas  M.  Cal- 
laghy  (eds.),  Socialism  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa:  A  New  Assessment. 
Berkeley:  Institute  of  International  Studies,  University  of  Califor- 
nia, 1979. 

 .  "The  War  in  the  Ogaden:  Implications  for  Siyaad's  Role 

in  Somali  History, ' '  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [Cambridge] , 
17,  No.  1,  March  1979,  95-115. 

Laitin,  David  D.,  and  Said  S.  Samatar.  Somalia:  Nation  in  Search 
of  a  State.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 

Lefebvre,  Jeffrey  A.  Arms  for  the  Horn:  U.S.  Security  Policy  in  Ethio- 
pia and  Somalia,  1953-1991.  Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pittsburgh 
Press,  1991. 

Legum,  Colin,  and  Bill  Lee.  Conflict  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  New  York: 
Africana,  1977. 

Lewis,  I.M.  "Shaikhs  and  Warriors  in  Somaliland."  Pages  204-23 
in  M.  Fortes  and  G.  Dieterlen  (eds.),  African  Systems  of  Thought. 
London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1965. 

 "The  Somali  Conquest  of  the  Horn  of  Africa, "  Journal 

of  African  History  [Cambridge],  1,  No.  2,  1960,  213-29. 

Lewis,  William  H.  "Ethiopia- Somalia  (1977-1978)."  Pages  99-116 
in  Robert  E.  Harkavy  and  Stephanie  G.  Neuman  (eds.),  The 
Lessons  of  Recent  Wars  in  the  Third  World,  1:  Approaches  and  Case 
Studies.  Lexington,  Massachusetts:  Lexington  Books,  1985. 

McNeill,  Malcolm.  In  Pursuit  of  the  'Mad  Mullah':  Service  and  Sport 
in  the  Somali  Protectorate.  London:  Pearson,  1902. 


255 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


Makinda,  Samuel  M.  "Conflict  and  Accommodation  in  the  Horn 
of  Africa:  Kenya's  Role  in  the  Somali-Ethiopian  Dispute,"  Aus- 
tralian Outlook:  Journal  of  the  Australian  Institute  of  International  Af- 
fairs [Sydney],  37,  No.  1,  April  1983,  34-39. 

 "Conflict  and  the  Superpowers  in  the  Horn  of  Africa," 

Third  World  Quarterly  [London],  4,  No.  1,  January  1982,  93- 
103. 

 "Shifting  Alliances  in  the  Horn  of  Africa, ' '  Survival  [Lon- 
don], 28,  No.  1,  January-February  1985,  11-19. 

 .  Superpower  Diplomacy  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  New  York:  St. 

Martin's  Press,  1987. 

Mariam,  M.W.  "Background  to  the  Ethio- Somali  Boundary  Dis- 
pute," Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [Cambridge],  2,  No.  2, 
July  1964,  189-220. 

Markakis,  John.  "Material  and  Social  Aspects  of  National  Con- 
flict in  the  Horn  of  Africa."  Pages  551-57  in  Sven  Rubenson 
(ed.),  Proceedings  of  the  Seventh  International  Conference  of  Ethiopian 
Studies.  Uppsala,  Sweden:  Scandinavian  Institute  of  African 
Studies,  1984. 

 National  and  Class  Conflict  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Cambridge: 

Cambridge  University  Press,  1987. 

Martin,  Brad  G.  "Mahdism,  Muslim  Clerics,  and  Holy  Wars  in 
Ethiopia,  1300-1600."  Pages  91-100  in  Harold  G.  Marcus  (ed.), 
Proceedings  of  the  First  United  States  Conference  on  Ethiopian  Studies, 
1973.  East  Lansing:  African  Studies  Center,  Michigan  State 
University,  1975. 

Mathews,  Lloyd.  "Somalia."  Pages  522-24  in  John  Keegan  (ed.), 
World  Armies.  (2d  ed.)  Detroit:  Gale  Research,  1983. 

Mayall,  John.  "The  Battle  for  the  Horn:  Somali  Irredentism  and 
International  Diplomacy,"  World  Today  [London],  34,  No.  9, 
September  1978,  336-43. 

The  Military  Bale  nee,  1991-1992.  London:  International  Institute 
for  Strategic  Studies,  1991. 

Napper,  Larry  C.  "The  Ogaden  War:  Some  Implications  for  Crisis 
Prevention."  Pages  225-54  in  Alexander  L.  George  (ed.),  Manag- 
ing U.S.  -Soviet  Rivalry:  Problems  of  Crisis  Prevention.  Boulder,  Colora- 
do: Westview  Press,  1983. 

Omaar,  Rakiya.  "Somalia:  At  War  with  Itself,"  Current  History, 
91,  No.  565,  May  1992,  230-34. 

Osman,  Mohamoud.  "Somalia:  From  Irredentism  to  Insurgen- 
cy," Horn  of  Africa,  5,  No.  4,  1982-83,  26-31. 

Ottaway,  Marina.  Soviet  and  American  Influence  in  the  Horn  of  Africa. 
New  York:  Praeger,  1982. 

Patman,  Robert  G.  The  Soviet  Union  in  the  Horn  of  Africa:  The  Diplomacy 


256 


Bibliography 


of  Intervention  and  Disengagement.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  Univer- 
sity Press,  1990. 

Payton,  Gary  D.  "The  Somali  Coup  of  1969:  The  Case  for  Soviet 
Complicity, ' '  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [Cambridge] ,  18, 
No.  3,  September  1980,  493-508. 

 "Soviet  Military  Presence  Abroad:  The  Lessons  of  Soma- 
lia," Military  Review,  59,  No.  1,  January  1979,  67-77. 

Porter,  Bruce  D.  "The  Ogaden  War."  Pages  182-215  in  Bruce 
D.  Porter  (ed.),  The  USSR  in  Third  World  Conflicts:  Soviet  Arms 
and  Diplomacy  in  Local  Wars,  1945-1980.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1984. 

Prunier,  Gerard.  "A  Candid  View  of  the  Somali  National  Move- 
ment," Horn  of  Africa,  13-14,  Nos.  3-4  and  1-2,  January-June 
1990-91,  107-20. 

Reisman,  W.  Michael.  "The  Case  of  Western  Somaliland:  An  In- 
ternational Legal  Perspective,"  Horn  of  Africa,  1,  No.  3,  July- 
September  1978,  13-22. 

Remnek,  Richard  B.  "Soviet  Policy  in  the  Horn  of  Africa:  The 
Decision  to  Intervene."  Pages  125-49  in  Robert  H.  Donaldson 
(ed.),  The  Soviet  Union  in  the  Third  World.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Westview  Press,  1981. 

 "The  Soviet-Somali  'Arms  for  Access'  Relationship," 

Soviet  Union  [Moscow],  10,  No.  1,  1983,  59-81. 

Rennell,  Francis  James.  British  Military  Administration  of  Occupied  Ter- 
ritories in  Africa  During  the  Years  1941-1947.  London:  HMSO,  1948. 

Ruiz,  Hiram  A.  Beyond  the  Headlines:  Refugees  in  the  Horn  of  Africa. 
Washington:  United  States  Committee  for  Refugees,  1988. 

Searle,  Chris.  "Agony  and  Struggle  in  Northern  Somalia,"  Race 
and  Class  [London],  34,  No.  2,  October-December  1992,  23-32. 

Sheik- Abdi,  Abdi.  Divine  Madness:  Mohammed  Abdulle  Hassan  (1856- 
1920).  Atlantic  Highlands,  New  Jersey:  Humanities  Press,  1992. 

SIPRI  Yearbook:  World  Armaments  and  Disarmament  (annuals  1982 
through  1991).  New  York:  Humanities  Press,  1982  through  1991. 

Somalia.  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs.  Background  to  the  Liberation 
Struggle  of  the  Western  Somalis.  Mogadishu:  1978. 

 Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs.  Ethiopia's  Invasion  of  Soma- 
lia, 1982-83.  Mogadishu:  1983. 

 Ministry  of  Information  and  National  Guidance.  The  Dis- 
astrous Damages  of  Ethiopian  Aggression.  Mogadishu:  1978. 

 Ministry  of  Information  and  National  Guidance.  Horn  of 

Africa  Conflict.  Mogadishu:  1982. 

"Somalia,"  Military  Powers  [Paris],  February  1987,  133-54. 

"Somalia."  Page  179  in  John  Andrade,  World  Police  and  Paramili- 
tary Forces.  New  York:  Stockton  Press,  1985. 


257 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


"Somalia."  Pages  339-42  in  George  Thomas  Kurian  (ed.),  World 
Encyclopedia  of  Police  Forces  and  Penal  Systems.  New  York:  Facts  on 
File,  1989. 

Somali  National  Movement.  Secretariat  for  Foreign  Relations. 
Memorandum  on  the  Situation  in  Somalia.  London,  1990. 

Spencer,  John  H.  "A  Reassessment  of  the  Ethiopian-Somali  Con- 
flict," Horn  of  Africa,  1,  No.  3,  July-September  1978,  23-30. 

Strategic  Survey  (annuals  1982-83  through  1991-92).  London:  In- 
ternational Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  1982  through  1991. 

Touval,  Saadia.  "A  Third  View:  The  Shifta  Warfare,"  East  Afri- 
ca Journal  [Nairobi],  3,  No.  2,  May  1966,  7-10. 

Turton,  E.R.  "The  Impact  of  Mohammad  Abdille  Hassan  in  the 
East  Africa  Protectorate,  "Journal  of  African  History  [Cambridge], 
10,  No.  4,  1969,  641-57. 

United  Kingdom.  Foreign  Office.  Correspondence  Relating  to  the  Ris- 
ing of  Mullah  Mohamed  Abdullah  in  Somaliland  and  Consequent  Mili- 
tary Operations,  1899-1902.  London:  HMSO,  1902. 

United  Kingdom.  Parliament.  Correspondence  Relating  to  Affairs  in 
Somaliland,  1913.  London:  HMSO,  1913. 

 Parliament.  Correspondence  Respecting  the  Rising  of  the  Mul- 
lah Mohammed  Abdullah  in  Somaliland,  and  Consequent  Military  Oper- 
ations, 1901-1902.  London:  HMSO,  1902. 

 Parliament.  Correspondence  Respecting  the  Rising  of  the  Mul- 
lah Mohammed  Abdullah  in  Somaliland,  and  Consequent  Military  Oper- 
ations, 1901-1902.  London:  HMSO,  1903. 

 .  Parliament.  Despatches,  etc.,  Regarding  Military  Operations  in 

Somaliland  from  the  18th  January  1902  to  the  31st  May  1904.  Lon- 
don: HMSO,  1904. 

 .  Parliament.  Despatches  Relative  to  the  Operations  of  the 

Somaliland  Field  Force.  London:  HMSO,  1903. 

 .  Parliament.  Further  Correspondence  Relating  to  Affairs  in 

Somaliland,  1914.  London:  HMSO,  1914. 

 .  War  Office.  Military  Report  on  British  Somaliland.  London: 

HMSO,  1925. 

 .  War  Office.  Military  Report  on  Somaliland.  London:  HMSO, 

1907. 

 .  War  Office.  Official  History  of  the  Operations  in  Somaliland, 

1901-1904.  (2  vols.)  London:  HMSO,  1907. 

United  States.  Army.  Army  Intelligence  and  Security  Command. 
Intelligence  and  Threat  Analysis  Center.  Ethiopia-Somalia  Ground 
Forces  Comparison  Study.  Arlington,  Virginia,  1977. 

 .  Congress.  95th,  1st  Session.  Senate.  Committee  on  Armed 

Services.  Soviet  Military  Capability  in  Berbera,  Somalia.  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  1975. 


258 


Bibliography 


 Congress.  95th,  2d  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  International  Relations.  War  in  the  Horn  of  Africa: 
A  Firsthand  Report  on  the  Challenges  for  United  States  Policy.  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  1978. 

 .  Congress.  96th,  2d  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Reprogramming  of  Military  Aid  to 
Somalia.  Washington:  GPO,  1980. 

 .  Congress.  100th,  2d  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Subcommittee  on  Africa.  Reported 
Massacres  and  Indiscriminate  Killings  in  Somalia.  Washington:  GPO, 
1989. 

 Defense  Intelligence  Agency.  Directorate  for  Intelligence 

Research.  Ethiopia  Embattled — A  Chronology  of  Events  in  the  Horn 
of  Africa,  1  July  1977-30  March  1978.  Washington:  1978. 

 General  Accounting  Office.  Somalia:  Observations  Regard- 
ing the  Northern  Conflict  and  Resulting  Conditions.  Washington:  1989. 

 Mission  to  the  Somali  Republic.  Training  Office.  A  List- 
ing of  Somalis  who  Participated  in  a  Technical  Assistance  Training  Pro- 
gram in  the  U.S.  Mogadishu:  n.p.,  1968. 

Urban,  Mark.  "Soviet  Intervention  and  the  Ogaden  Counter- 
Offensive  of  1978,"  Journal  of  the  Royal  United  Services  Institute  for 
Defence  Studies  [London],  128,  No.  2,  1983,  42-53. 

Valdes,  Nelson  P.  "Cuba's  Involvement  in  the  Horn  of  Africa: 
The  Ethiopian-Somali  War  and  the  Eritrean  Conflict,"  Cuban 
Studies,  10,  No.  1,  January  1980,  49-80. 

Watson,  Paul.  "Arms  and  Aggression  in  the  Horn  of  Africa, "  Jour- 
nal of  International  Affairs,  40,  No.  1,  Summer  1986,  159-76. 

Wavell,  A. P.  Operations  in  the  Somaliland  Protectorate,  1939-1940.  Lon- 
don: HMSO,  1946. 

Whitten,  Lawrence.  "The  Soviet-Cuban  Presence  in  the  Horn  of 
Africa, ' '  Journal  of  the  Royal  United  Services  Institute  for  Defence  Studies 
[London],  123,  September  1978,  39-45. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Report;  Africa  Confidential  [Lon- 
don]; African  Defense  Journal  [Paris];  Africa  News;  Africa  Research  Bulletin 
[Exeter,  Devon,  United  Kingdom];  Horn  of  Africa,  Keesing's  Con- 
temporary Archives  [Harlow,  Essex,  United  Kingdom];  Manchester 
Guardian  Weekly  [London];  New  African  [London];  New  York  Times; 
and  Times  [London].) 


259 


Glossary 


clan — A  large  group  of  people  believed  to  be  descendants  through 
males  of  a  common  ancestor  whose  name  is  also  the  name  of 
the  clan.  Several  clans  constitute  a  clan-family  (q.v.),  and  each 
clan  is  divided  into  a  number  of  lineages  (q.v.). 

clan-family — A  group  of  clans  (q.  v. )  believed  to  be  linked  ulti- 
mately by  descent  from  a  common  ancestor.  The  six  major 
Somali  clan-families  are  Daarood,  Hawiye,  Isaaq,  Dir,  Digil, 
and  Rahanwayn. 

client,  clientage — Clientage  involves  a  relationship  in  which  each 
party  gains  something.  The  client  attaches  himself  to  a  promi- 
nent person  to  obtain  protection,  the  possibility  of  advance- 
ment, and  the  like.  The  patron  acquires  a  follower  and,  in  case 
of  need,  the  services  of  the  client. 

dhikr — An  Islamic  technical  term  relating  to  the  glorifying  of  Allah 
with  certain  fixed  phases,  repeated  in  a  ritual  order  and  ac- 
companied by  special  breathing  and  movements. 

diya — Islamic  blood  compensation  paid  by  a  person  who  has  com- 
mitted homicide  or  wounded  another,  including  injuries  in 
traffic  accidents. 

fiscal  year  (FY) — An  annual  period  established  for  accounting 
purposes.  The  Somali  fiscal  year  is  coterminous  with  the  calen- 
dar year. 

franco  valuta — A  system  permitting  the  private  repatriation  of  hard 
currency  by  traders  and  overseas  workers. 

GDP  (gross  domestic  product) — A  value  measure  of  the  flow  of 
domestic  goods  and  services  produced  by  an  economy  over  a 
period  of  time,  such  as  a  year.  Only  output  values  of  goods 
for  final  consumption  and  for  intermediate  production  are  as- 
sumed to  be  included  in  final  prices.  GDP  is  sometimes  ag- 
gregated and  shown  at  market  prices,  meaning  that  indirect 
taxes  and  subsidies  are  included;  when  these  have  been  elimi- 
nated, the  result  is  GDP  at  factor  cost.  The  word  gross  indi- 
cates that  deductions  for  depreciation  of  physical  assets  have 
not  been  made. 

GNP  (gross  national  product) — GDP  (q.  v. )  plus  the  net  in- 
come or  loss  stemming  from  transactions  with  foreign  countries. 
GNP  is  the  broadest  measurement  of  the  output  of  goods  and  ser- 
vices by  an  economy.  It  can  be  calculated  at  market  prices,  which 
include  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies.  Because  indirect  taxes  and 


261 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 

subsidies  are  only  transfer  payments,  GNP  is  often  calculated 
at  a  factor  cost,  removing  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies. 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with 
the  World  Bank  (q.  v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  and  is  responsible  for  stabiliz- 
ing international  exchange  rates  and  payments.  The  main  busi- 
ness of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its  members  (in- 
cluding industrialized  and  developing  countries)  when  they  ex- 
perience balance  of  payments  difficulties.  These  loans  frequendy 
carry  conditions  that  require  substantial  internal  economic  ad- 
justments by  the  recipients,  most  of  which  are  developing 
countries. 

lineage — A  group  of  persons  tracing  descent  from  a  common  an- 
cestor; in  Somalia  the  ancestor  is  male,  and  descent  is  traced 
through  males.  The  group  carries  his  name.  A  lineage  may 
be  part  of  a  larger  one  and  may  consist  of  several  smaller  ones. 

Somali  shilling  (Sh) — Currency  of  Somalia  since  national  in- 
dependence in  1960;  divided  into  100  Somali  cents  (centesi- 
mi).  Exchange  rates  have  varied  considerably;  average  rates 
for  the  years  1987-89  as  follows:  US$1  equaled  Shl05.18 
(1987);  SM07.45  (1988);  Sh490.68  (1989);  Sh2,636  (Novem- 
ber 10,  1992).  From  1960  to  1971,  US$1  equaled  7.143  shill- 
ings. The  shilling  began  to  fluctuate  in  the  1970s  but  remained 
around  6  to  7  shillings  per  US  dollar.  Beginning  in  1981,  a 
two- tier  system  was  introduced,  with  the  official  rate  follow- 
ing the  market  rate. 

wadad  (pi.,  wadaddo) — A  religious  figure  or  functionary;  mem- 
ber of  an  Islamic  religious  order  or  brotherhood  or  of  a  heredi- 
tary lineage  of  religious  figures;  the  Arabic  term  shaykh  is 
sometimes  used  for  wadad. 

waranle — Spear  carrier  (warrior).  Applied  to  adult  males,  par- 
ticularly those  of  the  pastoral  tradition;  excluded  from  this 
category  are  religious  figures  {wadad — q.v.). 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  four 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA),  the  International  Finance  Cor- 
poration (IFC),  and  the  multilateral  Investment  Guarantee 
Agency  (MIGA).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  the 
primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to  developing  countries  for 
productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund  but 
administered  by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to 
furnish  credits  to  the  poorest  developing  countries  on  much  eas- 
ier terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC, 


262 


Glossary 


founded  in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD 
through  loans  and  assistance  specifically  designed  to  encourage 
the  growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  the  less  devel- 
oped countries.  The  MIGA,  founded  in  1988,  insures  private 
foreign  investment  in  developing  countries  against  various  non- 
commercial risks.  The  president  and  certain  senior  officers  of 
the  IBRD  hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC .  The  three  insti- 
tutions are  owned  by  the  governments  of  the  countries  that  sub- 
scribe their  capital.  To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group, 
member  states  must  first  belong  to  the  International  Mone- 
tary Fund  (IMF — q.v.). 


263 


Index 


Aadan  Shaykh,  Mahammad,  46 
Abdi,  Abdulqaadir  Kosar,  193 
Abdi,  Ahmad  Ismaaiil,  192 
Abdullah,  Abdirrahman  (shaykh),  99 
Abdullah,  Ahmad  Sulaymaan,  42,  45,  49 
Abgaal  clan,  xxx,  155-56,  170,  194 
Abshir,  Mahammad,  36,  46,  191 
Abu  Dhabi:  debt  to,  130 
Adal,  6-8 

Afar:  broadcasts  in,  171 

AFIS.  See  Trusteeship  Administration 

Africa  Watch,  xxix,  xxx,  48,  219,  224 

agricultural  production,  xxi,  134;  areas 
for,  64;  decline  in,  132;  of  food 
products,  143;  levels  of,  141-43 

agricultural  products:  bananas,  122,  123, 
124,  125,  134,  139,  146,  147,  148; 
coffee,  5;  export  of,  xxvi,  122;  process- 
ing of,  148;  sugar,  14,  123,  124,  125; 
trade  in,  5,  144 

agricultural  programs,  126;  colonial,  21; 
spending  on,  128;  success  of,  128 

agricultural  religious  communities,  70, 
76,  98,  99;  land  for,  100;  number  of, 
100 

agropastoralists,  136,  143;  trade  by,  with 

pastoralists,  143 
Ahmad,  Abdillaahi  Yuusuf,  50,  164,  190 
Ahmad,  Abdirahman  Aidid,  190;  arrest- 
ed, 191 
Ahmad,  Yuusuf,  190 
Ahmad  Guray  War  College,  208 
Ahmadiyah-Idrisiyah  Sufi  brotherhood, 
98,  99 

Ahmad  Mahamuud  Faarah,  49,  194 

AID.  See  United  States  Agency  for  Inter- 
national Development 

Aidid,  Mahammad  Faarah,  xxix,  xxx, 
155,  170,  195;  meetings  of,  with  Ma- 
hammad, xxxvi,  xxxvii 

Ainanche,  Mahammad,  40 

Air  Defense  Forces,  205 

airports,  138 

Ajuuraan.  See  Ujuuraan 

Algeria:  debt  to,  130;  food  relief  from,  129 

Alitalia,  139 

Ali  "Tour,"  Abdirahmaan  Ahmad, 
169-70 


Ali,  Usmaan  Nur,  190 
Allied  Council  of  Foreign  Ministers,  18, 
19 

Al  Majlis  (The  Council),  172 

Amarani  people,  80 

AMB.  See  Banana  Plantation  Monopoly 

Amharic:  broadcasts  in,  171 

Amministrazione  Fiduciaria  Italiana  della 
Somalia.  See  Trusteeship  Administra- 
tion 

Amnesty  International,  48,  219 
Amnesty  International  Report,  1980,  221 
Anglo-Ethiopian  Treaty  (1954),  29 
Arab  Fund  for  Economic  and  Social  De- 
velopment: debt  to,  130 
Arabia:  trade  with,  121 
Arabic,  104,  106;  broadcasts  in,  171;  as 
language  of  administration,  43;  as  lan- 
guage of  instruction,  21,  43,  108,  109; 
as  language  of  publication,  171 
Arab  League.  See  League  of  Arab  States 
Arab  Organization  for  Space  Communi- 
cations (Arabsat),  141 
Arabs:  influence  of,  4 
Arabsat.  See  Arab  Organization  for  Space 

Communications 
armed  forces  {see  also  military):  atrocities 
committed  by,  224;  build-up  of,  28; 
command  structure,  204;  conditions  of 
service,  206-8;  conscription  in,  202, 
206;  development  of,  198-202;  dissatis- 
faction of,  with  Igaal  government,  36; 
discontinuation  of,  186-87;  and  econ- 
omy, 204;  expansion  of,  xxvi;  and 
government,  202;  ground  forces, 
204-5;  irregulars  in,  207;  materiel  of, 
181,  204-6;  mission,  204-6;  number 
of  personnel  in,  181,  196;  organi- 
zation, 204-6;  percentage  of  budget 
spent  on,  xxvi;  police  in,  215;  reputa- 
tion of,  206-7;  reserves,  207;  in  Somali 
society,  202-4;  Soviet  influence  on, 
xxiv;  training,  207-8;  in  warfare, 
144-46 
attorney  general,  161 
Australia:  financial  support  from,  129 
Azienda  Monopolio  Banane.  See  Banana 
Plantation  Monopoly 


265 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


Baardheere  Dam,  137 
Bahrain:  trade  with,  149 
Bajuni  people,  80 
balance  of  payments,  21,  149 
Banaadir  coast,  11,  121 
Banaadir  hinterlands,  8-9 
Banana  Plantation  Monopoly  (AMB), 
123 

bananas,  14;  export  of,  122,  123,  124, 
125,  134,  139,  146,  147,  148;  invest- 
ment in,  123;  production  of,  123,  147 

bandits,  xxxii,  16,  29,  184;  former  mili- 
tary officers  as,  187 

banking:  lack  of,  133;  private,  permitted, 
133,  134 

Baraawe,  8,  121 

Baraawi,  Awes  Mahammad  (shaykh),  99 

baraka:  significance  of,  101 

Barre,  Abdirahmaan  Jaama,  48,  49 

Bayih,  Berhanu,  194 

Bay  Region,  70 

Belgium:  in  Operation  Restore  Hope, 
xxxiv 

Bender  Cassim:  Islamism  in,  104 
Berbera,  69;  as  British  capital,  17;  as 

center  of  Muslim  culture,  5;  port  of, 

139 

Berlin  West  Africa  Conference  (1884-85), 
11 

bokor,  74 
Boni  people,  80 
Boorama  (northwest)  area,  46 
border  guard,  206 
Botha,  Roelof,  47,  213 
bourgeois  class,  122,  124 
Boutros-Ghali,  Boutros,  xxxii;  reaction 
to,  xxxvi 

Britain,  177;  conquest  of  Italian  Soma- 
liland  by,  xxii;  conquest  of  Ogaden  by, 
xxii;  economic  subsidies  from,  xxiv,  10; 
military  aid  from,  210;  trade  with,  10, 
149 

British  Broadcasting  Corporation,  48 
British  Military  Administration,  16-20, 

214;  development  under,  16 
British  rule  {see  also  Somaliland,  British), 
xxii;  criminal  justice  under,  217;  eco- 
nomic development  under,  xxii;  edu- 
cation under,  xxii,  24,  106;  health  care 
under,  xxii;  livestock  under,  121;  mili- 
tary under,  198-99;  motives  for,  10-11; 
resistance  against,  13;  Somalia  as  sup- 
ply post  under,  xxii 


British-Somali  relations,  31,  48 

Brooke  Amendment,  177 

Bulgaria:  debt  to,  130 

Burao,  116,  194;  demonstration  in,  193, 

222;  destroyed,  50,  92,  222-24 
Burton,  Richard,  9 
Bush,  George,  xxxii;  visit  by,  xxxvi 

Camel  Corps,  199 
camels,  121 

Canada:  in  Operation  Restore  Hope, 
xxxiv 

Carletti  (governor),  14 

cease-fire  agreements,  xxxvi 

census  of  1975,  66;  of  nomad  population, 

66-67;  of  settled  population,  66 
Central   Prison   of  Mogadishu,  220, 

224-25 

Central  Rangelands  Project,  128 
chiefs,  79;  appointed  by  colonial  authori- 
ties, 79 

China,  21;  economic  assistance  from,  31; 
debt  to,  130;  food  relief  from,  129;  mili- 
tary assistance  from,  181,  213;  trade 
with,  121 
China-Somali  relations,  30 
Chisimayu,  69;  port  of,  70,  139 
Chisimayu  Region,  11 
Christian-Muslim  relations,  8 
civet,  5 

civil  code:  under  Siad  Barre,  160-61 
civil  rights:  under  1979  constitution, 

xxvi-xxviii 
civil  servants,  124;  bribes  collected  by, 

144,  146;  as  elite,  83-84,  90,  91;  layoffs 

of,  133;  political  indoctrination  of,  38; 

salaries  of,  146 
civil  service,  84,  160;  employment  in, 

144-46 

civil  war:  casualties  from,  117,  153;  clan- 
families  in,  73;  origins  of,  92,  94;  refu- 
gees from,  115 

clan  consciousness,  xxi 

clan-families  (see  also  under  individual  fam- 
ilies), 57,  88;  economic  systems  of,  xxi; 
functions  of,  73;  occupations  of,  xxi,  71; 
as  percentage  of  population,  xxi;  sig- 
nificance of,  84-85;  social  structure  of, 
76 

clan  rivalries,  xxiv,  58,  71-73,  163,  187; 

increase  in,  34,  85 
clans  (see  also  under  individual  clans),  57; 


266 


Index 


alignments  of,  75;  chiefs  of,  79;  con- 
federacies of,  75;  diya-paying  group, 
75-76;  importance  of,  58-59;  militias 
of,  16;  political  parties  of,  17-18,  27; 
population  of,  75;  prestige  of,  75,  78; 
reprisals  against,  xxviii,  xxix,  45,  48, 
50,  51-52,  164;  role  of,  xxi;  under  Siad 
Barre,  153,  163;  strata  of,  78,  83 

clan  system,  93-94;  government  attempts 
to  dismantle,  88,  188 

clients,  83 

climate,  59-60 

coastal  peoples,  79-80 

coastline,  59 

coffee,  5 

Colombo,  Emilio,  212 

Colombo,  Salvatore:  assassinated,  51 

colonial  rule,  3;  abolition  of  slavery  un- 
der, 82;  chiefs  appointed  under,  79; 
consolidation  of,  14;  impact  of,  82;  Is- 
lam under,  102-4;  official  class  under, 
122;  opposition  to,  102;  plantations  un- 
der, 122-24;  resistance  to,  13;  sharia 
courts  under,  160;  trade  under,  124 

communications,  140-41;  expenditures 
for,  138 

communications  networks,  xxvi 

constitution  of  provisional  government, 
157-58,  225 

constitution  of  1961,  157-58;  civil  rights 
under,  220;  flaws  in,  xxiv;  framing  of, 
22;  freedom  of  religion  in,  103;  govern- 
ment in,  158;  referendum  on,  27; 
repealed,  38;  suspended,  37,  160 

constitution  of  1979,  157;  amended,  47; 
civil  rights  under,  xxvi-xxviii,  220-21; 
legislature  under,  xxviii;  president  un- 
der, xxviii 

Consultative  Group  of  Aid  Donors,  133 

Contini,  Paolo,  27 

cooperatives,  126;  agricultural,  128,  129; 
fishing,  69,  128,  129,  129,  148;  invest- 
ment in,  128;  nomads  settled  in,  129; 
organization  of,  128;  problems  in,  128 

Corpo  di  Polizia  della  Somalia.  See  Police 
Corps  of  Somalia 

Corpo  Zaptie,  214 

corruption:  clan  system  as  source  of,  84; 

concern  with,  36;  in  government,  xxiv, 

130;  prosecution  of,  38 
cotton:  exports,  123-24;  investment  in, 

123;  production,  123 
Council  for  National  Reconstruction  and 


Salvation  manifesto,  xxix,  167;  arrest 
of  signatories  to,  xxix,  52,  167;  issues 
of,  xxix 

Council  of  Ministers,  132,  158;  under 
Husseen,  32;  under  Siad  Barre,  45; 
women's  rights  declared  by,  89 
Council  of  the  Secretaries  of  State,  38,  202 
coup  d'etat  of  1969,  xxiv,  3,  36-37,  153 
coups  d'etat,  attempted,  50,  164,  188, 
189,  221 

courts,  17,  161-63;  appeals,  161-62;  dis- 
trict, 161;  regional,  161 
criminal  justice,  217-18 
Criminal  Procedure  Code,  219 
Cuba:  military  assistance  of,  to  Ethiopia, 
181 

Culaid,  Ahmad  Mahammad,  192 
culpability  (see  also  diya),  93,  188,  218 
cultivators,    73-74,    76-77,    91;  non- 
Somalis  as,  80;  as  percent  of  popula- 
tion, 57 

currency:  devaluation  of,  xxvi,  48,  134 
customary  law,  218;  women  under,  89 

Daarood  clan-family,  xxi,  71,  166;  origins 
of,  6;  as  percentage  of  population,  xxi, 
73;  political  influence  of,  42,  88,  93, 
163;  political  parties  of,  18,  27 

Daarood  Jabarti  (shaykh),  6 

Daaud,  51 

da  Gama,  Pedro,  8 

debt,  foreign:  amount  of,  130;  distribu- 
tion of,  130;  after  Ogaden  War,  xxvi; 
rescheduling  of,  130;  restructuring  of, 
133 

dei  Vecchi  di  Val  Cismon,  Cesare  Ma- 
ria, 14,  123 

Democratic  Front  for  the  Liberation  of 
Somalia  (DFLS),  190 

demonstrations:  casualties  in,  xxix,  18, 
52,  167,  224;  January  1948,  18;  July 
1989,  xxix,  52,  167;  July  1990,  52,  224 

dervishes.  See  Sufi  brotherhoods 

detention,  187-88 

Development  Plan  (1974-78),  128 

DFLS.  See  Democratic  Front  for  the 
Liberation  of  Somalia 

Digil  clan-family,  xxi,  77-79;  genealogies 
of,  77;  geographic  distribution  of,  xxi; 
occupations  of,  xxi;  as  percentage  of 
population,  xxi,  73;  social  structure  of, 
77;  status  of,  74 


267 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


Diiriye,  Haaji,  15 

Dir  clan-family,  xxi,  71,  166;  as  percent- 
age of  population,  xxi,  73;  political  par- 
ties of,  18,  27 

dissidents,  36;  fighting  by,  47;  reprisals 
against,  45,  48-50 

districts,  70 

diya:  abolished,  xxv,  39,  88,  161,  218;  un- 
der colonial  rule,  217-18 

^>-paying  group,  75-76,  77,  78,  82,  83, 
198;  abolished,  188,  218;  importance 
of,  76,  85;  lineages  in,  76;  non-Somalis 
in,  80 

Djibouti,  23,  174;  intervention  by,  in  civil 
war,  xxx ;  in  Operation  Restore  Hope, 
xxxiv;  refugees  in,  xxx,  224;  relations 
with,  172 

drainage,  60-66 

drought,  xxx;  of  1974-75,  59,  88,  128;  of 

1984-85,  59,  148,  154 
Dujuuma  port,  71 

Dulbahante  clan,  xxv,  13,  166,  196; 
alienated  by  Siad  Barre,  166;  political 
influence  of,  42,  88,  163,  189 

Durogba,  Ali  Maye,  99 

Duub  Cas.  See  Red  Berets 


Eastern  Europe:  relations  with,  xxiv 

economic  development,  16,  24,  125-30; 
under  Siad  Barre,  37,  153 

economic  subsidies:  from  Britain,  xxiv, 
125;  from  Italy,  xxiv,  125 

economy:  and  armed  forces,  204;  coloni- 
al, 122-25 

education,  106-10,  128;  adult,  110;  un- 
der colonial  authorities,  17,  21,  24,  82, 
106,  108;  of  habash,  82;  higher,  21,  108, 
110;  preprimary,  108;  primary,  21, 
108,  109;  public,  106;  religious,  106; 
secondary,  21,  108,  109-10;  under  Siad 
Barre,  108;  system  of,  108;  of  women, 
89 

EEC.  See  European  Economic  Com- 
munity 

Egypt,  11-12,  21;  mediation  of,  in  polit- 
ical crisis,  167;  military  aid  from,  176, 
209-10;  in  Operation  Restore  Hope, 
xxxiv 

elections:  of  1956,  22;  of  1960,  25;  of 
1963,  31;  of  1964,  32;  of  1967,  33;  of 
1969,  xxiv,  34;  of  1979,  46,  158-59;  of 
1984,  158-59;  of  1986,  158 


elevation,  63;  of  Somali  Plateau,  64 
elite  groups:  bureaucratic,  83,  90,  91; 
forces  affecting,  83;  targeted  for  eradi- 
cation, 37 

energy,  137-38;  petroleum,  137-38;  pow- 
er plants,  137;  sources,  xxvi;  wind,  138 

English:  broadcasts  in,  171;  as  language 
of  administration,  43,  83,  105,  125;  as 
language  of  instruction,  21,  43,  105;  as 
language  of  publication,  171 

Ethiopia,  12-13,  16,  23;  conflicts  with,  6; 
Haud  claimed  by,  29;  jihad  against,  8; 
military  power  of,  181;  Ogaden 
returned  to,  xxii,  16,  19;  prohibition  on 
jihad  against,  6-8;  protection  by,  6; 
provisional  government  of,  174;  raids 
against,  172;  refugees  from,  xxvi,  67, 
172;  refugees  in,  xxx,  115,  117,  173, 
174,  224;  relations  of,  with  Kenya,  30; 
relations  with,  172;  Soviet  military  sup- 
port for,  183;  support  by,  of  opposition 
groups,  181-82,  190 

Ethiopian  Air  Force,  184 

Ethiopian  rule  (see  also  Somaliland,  Ethio- 
pian), xxii,  5;  resistance  against,  13 

Ethiopia-Somali  relations,  182;  under 
Igaal,  34 

ethnic  history,  4-5 

European  Development  Fund:  financial 
aid  from,  141 

European  Economic  Community  (EEC), 
177;  associate  membership  in,  31 ;  food 
relief  from,  129 

exports:  of  agricultural  products,  xxvi;  of 
bananas,  122,  123,  124,  125,  134,  139, 
146,  147,  148;  of  cotton,  123-24; 
decline  in,  134,  136;  of  forestry 
products,  xxvi,  147,  148;  to  Italy,  31, 
148;  of  labor,  121-22;  oflivestock,  xxvi, 
121,  124,  125,  133,  134-36,  148;  of 
manufactured  goods,  130-32,  134;  to 
Saudi  Arabia,  148;  to  United  Arab 
Emirates,  149;  to  Yemen,  148 


Faarah,  Muse  Islan,  190 
famine,  154 

FAO.  See  United  Nations  Food  and 

Agriculture  Organization 
farms,  model,  125 

Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Ger- 
many): aid  from,  31;  military  aid  from, 


268 


Index 


209;  police  force  trained  by,  xxiv,  31, 
212-13,  215;  relations  with,  31 

fighting:  among  opposition  groups,  xxx, 
168-69,  170;  casualties  of,  xxx;  during 
cease-fire,  xxxvi;  in  Mogadishu,  xxx 

Filonardi,  Vincenzo,  11 

Finland:  financial  aid  from,  137 

Fire  Brigade,  216 

First  Charter  of  the  Revolution,  37 

fishing  sector,  xxvi,  148;  as  percent  of 
gross  domestic  product,  129;  produc- 
tion in,  148 

Five- Year  Plan  (1987-91),  134 

food:  aid,  139,  143,  177;  import  of,  148; 
production,  143 

food  distribution:  coordinated  by  wom- 
en, xxxiv- xxxvi;  obstacles  to,  xxxii;  in 
Operation  Restore  Hope,  xxxiv;  by 
Red  Cross,  xxxvi 

foreign  aid,  125;  from  Australia,  129; 
from  China,  31;  dependence  on,  176; 
from  Germany,  31;  from  Italy,  31; 
from  Kuwait,  176;  from  Qatar,  176; 
from  Saudi  Arabia,  176;  from  Soviet 
Union,  30-31;  from  United  Arab 
Emirates,  176;  from  United  States,  31, 
46,  47,  48 

foreign  exchange,  141 

foreign  relations,  30-31;  under  Igaal,  33; 
role  of  military  in,  200-201;  under  Siad 
Barre,  182 

forestry  sector,  xxvi,  147;  exports  by,  147, 
148;  fuel  from,  147 

Forze  di  Polizia  della  Somalia.  See  Police 
Force  of  Somalia 

France:  military  aid  from,  210;  military 
training  in,  208;  relations  with,  31 

franco  valuta,  142 

frankincense,  147 

French:  broadcasts  in,  171 

French  Foreign  Legion:  in  Operation  Re- 
store Hope,  xxxiv 

French  rule  {see  also  Somaliland,  French), 
xxii;  motives  for,  11 

Gadabursi  clan,  196;  resistance  move- 
ments of,  93,  166,  169 
Galcaio,  70 
Gareen  clan,  9 

GDP.  See  gross  domestic  product 
Geledi  clan,  78-79,  84;  nobles  of,  78;  so- 
cial structure  of,  78;  sociopolitical  or- 


ganization of,  78-79 
General  Daoud  Military  Academy,  208 
German  Democratic  Republic  (East  Ger- 
many): advisers  from,  215;  debt  to, 
130;  prisons  built  by,  220;  relations 
with,  xxiv;  training  by,  215 
Ghalib,  Umar  Arteh,  xxix,  155;  back- 
ground of,  156 
Gladstone,  William,  122 
GNP.  See  gross  national  product 
gold,  5 

government,  local,  159-60;  under  consti- 
tution of  1961,  159;  dissolved  by  Siad 
Barre,  xxviii,  39,  159;  members  of, 
160;  reorganized,  159 

grain:  import  of,  xxiv,  22,  23,  125 

Greater  Somalia,  19,  28-30,  182;  aban- 
donment of,  183-84;  disagreements 
over,  32;  under  Igaal,  33;  preoccupa- 
tion with,  28 

Greater  Somali  League  (GSL),  23,  24, 
28;  clans  in,  27 

Grechko,  Andrei,  209 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP):  fishing  as 
percentage  of,  129,  148;  forestry  as  per- 
centage of,  147;  increase  in,  134;  manu- 
facturing as  percentage  of,  148;  min- 
ing as  percentage  of,  147 

gross  national  product  (GNP):  per  capi- 
ta, 134 

GSL.  See  Greater  Somali  League 
guban  (scrub  land),  60-63 
guerrilla  campaigns:  against  Kenya,  29 
guestworkers,  122,  141-42;  remittances 

from,  141-42,  146 
Guray,  Ahmad  (imam),  8 

Habar  Gidir  clan,  xxx,  155-56,  170,  194 
habash,  80;  educational  opportunities  for, 
82 

Haile  Selassie,  14,  19,  30,  182,  201;  pres- 
sure by,  to  return  Ogaden,  16 
HANGASH  (military  police),  221,  222 
Harer,  Muslim  Emirate  of,  13 
Hargeysa,  116,  124,  194;  as  British  cap- 
ital, 17;  destroyed,  xxviii,  50,  70,  92, 
117,  154,  173,  221-22;  origins  of,  70 
Hasan,  Mahammad  Abdille  ("Mad  Mul- 
lah"), xxii,  xxv,  99,  102;  death  of,  13; 
as  hero,  199;  jihad  of,  13,  198-99 
Haud,  19,  63-64;  claimed  by  Ethiopia, 
29;  claimed  by  Somalia,  24-25,  29; 


269 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


fighting  in,  29-30;  land  use  in,  136; 
nomad  migrations  to,  68;  vegetation  of, 
66 

Hawiye  clan-family,  xxix,  xxx,  71,  84, 
155-56;  alienated  by  Siad  Barre,  46;  as 
percentage  of  population,  xxi,  73;  po- 
litical influence  of,  93,  166;  political 
parties  of,  28;  Siad  Barre 's  reprisals 
against,  xxviii,  xxix,  48,  50,  51-52;  up- 
rising by,  against  Siad  Barre,  92 

HDM.  See  Hisbia  Digil  Mirifle 

health,  17,  100-12;  care  distribution,  112, 
128;  care  personnel,  111,  112,  124;  en- 
vironmental impact  on,  1 10;  problems, 
111-12,  115 

heer,  17,  57,  73 

Heine,  Bernd,  5 

herders,  76,  91 

Hersi,  Daud  Abdullaahi,  200 

Hersi  Morgan,  Mahammad  Siad,  xxxvi 

High  Court,  xxviii 

Higher  Judicial  Council,  162-63 

Hisbia  Digil  Mirifle  (HDM),  18,  21,  24 

Hobyo,  Sultan  of,  11 

Home  Guard,  207 

humanitarian  aid:  dependence  on,  45 
human  rights,  220-25;  violations,  48, 

177,  201,  204,  211-12,  221-22 
Hunter,  A.  (major),  11 
hunters,  80 

Husseen,  Abdirizaq  Haaji:  chosen  prime 

minister,  32 
Husseen,  Haaji  Mahammad,  23,  28 
Husseen,  Idris  Jaama,  190 
Husseen  administration,  31-33 


IDA.  See  International  Development  As- 
sociation 

Id  al  Adha,  103 

Idris  al  Fasi,  Ahmad  ibn,  99 

Igaal,  Mahammad  Ibrahim,  28;  jailed  for 
corruption,  40,  221;  released  from  jail, 
46 

Igaal,  Yuusuf,  15 
Igaal  administration,  33-36 
IGADD.  See  Inter-Governmental  Author- 
ity on  Drought  and  Development 
Iise,  Abdullaahi,  22,  23,  51 
Iise  clan,  166,  196 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 
imports:  from  Bahrain,  149;  from  Britain, 


149;  of  food,  148;  of  grain,  125;  from 

Italy,  149;  from  Norway,  149 
independence:  obstacles  to,  xxiv 
independence  (cultural  characteristic), 

xxi;  in  elections,  xxiv 
India:  trade  with,  121 
Industrial  Export,  Import,  and  Foreign 

Trade  Company,  137 
inflation,  134 

infrastructure,  xxiv,  21,  24;  investment 
in,  21,  125,  138;  lack  of,  133 

Intelsat.  See  International  Telecommuni- 
cations Satellite  Organization 

Inter-Governmental  Authority  on 
Drought  and  Development  (IGADD), 
48 

internal  security,  187-96 

International  Court  of  Justice,  24 

International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Po- 
litical Rights,  224 

International  Development  Association 
(IDA),  132 

International  Military  Education  and 
Training  Program,  177 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF):  aid 
from,  46;  pressure  from,  48;  standby 
agreements  with,  132 

International  Telecommunications  Satel- 
lite Organization  (Intelsat),  140 

interriverine  area:  land  use  in,  136 

Iran:  military  aid  from,  209,  210 

Iraq:  debt  to,  130;  military  aid  from,  210; 
petroleum  imports  from,  137 

irrigation,  89-90,  122;  investment  in, 
125;  support  for,  129 

Isaaq  clan-family,  xxi,  xxix,  71,  156,  174; 
alienated  by  Siad  Barre,  46;  geographic 
distribution  of,  50;  killed,  51,  224;  op- 
position of,  to  Siad  Barre,  164;  origins 
of,  6;  as  percentage  of  population,  xxi, 
73;  political  influence  of,  93;  political 
parties  of,  27;  as  refugees,  116;  resis- 
tance movements  of,  93;  Siad  Barre 's 
reprisals  against,  xxviii,  xxix,  48,  49, 
50-51,  164;  uprising  by,  against  Siad 
Barre,  92 

Isahaaq  (shaykh),  6 

Islam  (see  also  religion):  in  colonial  era, 
102-4;  conversion  to,  4,  6,  80;  cult 
of  saints  in,  100;  five  pillars  of,  96;  folk, 
100-102;  ideal  of,  94;  importance  of, 
58;  introduction  of,  xxi,  5-6,  96;  loy- 
alty to,  94;  reinterpretation  of,  102-3; 


270 


Index 


religious  orders  of,  97-100;  religious 
roles  in,  97;  and  scientific  socialism,  58, 
103,  188;  Shia,  96;  under  Siad  Barre, 
xxv,  58,  188;  sunna  of,  96;  Sunni,  96; 
tenets  of,  96;  training  in,  97 

Islamic  brotherhoods,  70 

Islamic  fundamentalism.  See  Islamism 

Islamic  militants:  support  for,  xxxvii 

Islamic  socialism,  103 

Islamism:  rise  of,  104;  role  of,  xxxvii 

Ismail,  Khedive,  11 

Italian,  106;  broadcasts  in,  171;  as  lan- 
guage of  administration,  43,  83,  105, 
125;  as  language  of  instruction,  21,  43, 
105;  as  language  of  publication,  171 

Italian  rule  (see  also  Somaliland,  Italian), 
xxii;  criminal  justice  under,  217;  eco- 
nomic development  under,  xxii,  14; 
education  under,  xxii,  106,  108;  health 
care  under,  xxii 

Italo-Somali  Agricultural  Society  (SAIS), 
124 

Italy,  21;  economic  assistance  from,  31, 
129,  139,  177;  economic  cooperation 
with,  147,  148;  economic  subsidies 
from,  xxiv;  exports  to,  31,  123,  148; 
food  relief  from,  129;  invasion  of  Brit- 
ish Somaliland  by,  xxii,  14,  200;  medi- 
ation of,  in  political  crisis,  167;  military 
aid  from,  212;  military  training  in,  208, 
212;  in  Operation  Restore  Hope, 
xxxiv;  plantations  under,  122;  police 
force  trained  by,  31,  207,  215 

Ittihad.  See  Somali  Islamic  Union 


jamaa.  See  agricultural  religious  commu- 
nities 
Jamal,  Vali,  142-43 
Jebro,  Ibrahim  Hassan,  98 
Jess,  Ahmad  Omar,  xxxvi,  195 
jiffo-paying  group,  76 
jihad,  198 

Jilani,  Abd  al  Qadir  al,  98 
Jordan:  military  aid  from,  210 
Jubbada  Dhexe  Region,  71 
Jubbada  Hoose  Region,  71 
Jubba  River,  65 
July  massacres,  52,  167 

KAR.  See  King's  African  Rifles 
Karkaar  Mountains,  59,  63 


kat.  See  qat 

Kedie,  Salah  Gaveire,  40 

Keenadiid,  Yuusuf  Ali  (sultan)  10,  10,  11 

Kenya,  23;  independence  talks,  28-29;  as 
source  of  labor  for  British,  124;  refu- 
gees in,  xxx,  117,  174,  184,  224;  rela- 
tions of,  with  Ethiopia,  30 

Kenyan  rule  (see  also  Somaliland, 
Kenyan),  xxii 

Kenya-Somali  relations,  172;  under  Igaal, 
34;  under  Siad  Barre,  172-73,  184 

Kenyatta,  Jomo,  30,  182 

KFAED.  See  Kuwait  Fund  for  Arab  Eco- 
nomic Development 

Khadiija,  Mama,  49 

King's  African  Rifles  (KAR),  199,  200 

Kouchner,  Bernard,  xxxii 

Kulmiye,  Husseen,  49,  128 

Kuwait:  debt  to,  130;  economic  aid  from, 
xxvi;  military  aid  from,  210 

Kuwait  Fund  for  Arab  Economic  De- 
velopment (KFAED),  128,  129 


Lagarde,  Leonce,  11 

land,   136-37;  arable,   136;  area,  59; 

forest,  136;  market  for,  136-37,  144; 

permanent  pasture,  136;  rights,  136, 

137 

language,  104-6;  of  administration,  43; 
facility  with,  valued,  105;  of  instruc- 
tion, 43;  issues,  43-44;  official,  58;  and 
social  stratification,  106 

Law  Number  1,  37-38 

Law  on  Cooperative  Development  (1973), 
126 

League  of  Arab  States  (Arab  League),  47; 
intervention  by,  in  civil  war,  xxx;  mem- 
bership in,  176,  177,  210 

legal  system,  160-61;  traditions  in,  17, 
160 

Legislative  Assembly,  22,  25 

Legislative  Council,  25 

legislature,  158-59;  under  1979  constitu- 
tion, xxvi-xxviii;  under  provisional 
government,  159;  under  Siad  Barre, 
158 

Lewis,  I.M.,  35,  75 

Libya:  debt  to,  130;  military  aid  from, 

213-14;  relations  with,  48,  176,  193; 

support  by,  for  opposition  groups,  190 
Libyan  Arab  Airlines,  213 


271 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


lineage  groups,  57,  77-78;  conflict  be- 
tween, 58,  85;  importance  of,  58-59; 
non-Somali  attachment  to,  80;  religious 
affiliations  of,  100;  targeted  for  eradi- 
cation, 37,  39 

literacy,  43,  108;  campaign,  xxv,  44,  106, 
110;  rate,  44,  110;  and  social  stratifi- 
cation, 106 

livestock,  146;  under  British  rule,  121; 
control  of,  90;  destruction  of,  50;  ex- 
port of,  xxvi,  124,  125,  133,  134-36, 
142,  144,  148;  forage  for,  66;  impor- 
tance of,  121;  source  of,  for  British, 
xxii,  10,  121;  trade,  84,  90,  121,  133 

Livestock  Development  Agency,  125 

loans,  foreign,  xxiv 

Luigi  Amadeo  of  Savoy  (prince),  122 


Mad  Mullah.  See  Hasan,  Mahammad 
Abdille 

Mahammad,  Ali  Mahdi,  xxx,  170;  back- 
ground of,  156;  clan  membership  of, 
155;  meetings  of,  with  Aidid,  xxxvi, 
xxxvii;  as  president  of  provisional 
government,  xxix.  155 

Mahamuud,  Ismaan,  10,  11 

Mahamuud  "Silanyo,"  Ahmad  Maham- 
mad, 193 

Majeerteen  clan-family,  164,  190;  alienat- 
ed by  Siad  Barre,  46;  killed,  51;  oppo- 
sition of,  to  Siad  Barre,  xxviii,  92,  164; 
political  influence  of,  42,  88;  resistance 
movements  of,  93;  Siad  Barre' s  repri- 
sals against,  xxix,  48,  49,  50,  164 

Majeerteen  sultanates,  10,  11;  British 
subsidies  for,  10 

malaria,  111 

malnutrition,  112 

Mandera  Prison:  attack  on,  166,  192 

manufacturing  sector,  148;  decline  of, 
130-32,  134;  government  organization 
of,  129;  as  percentage  of  gross  domes- 
tic product,  148 

Mareehaan  clan,  xxv,  xxxvi,  42,  88,  163, 
189,  206-7 

Mariano,  Michael,  24,  25,  27 

marriage  ceremonies,  39 

Masala,  Umar  Haaji,  46 

materiel,  198;  import  of,  204,  208,  213; 
lost  in  Ogaden  War,  xxvi,  181;  pur- 
chase of,  xxvi,  142;  serviceability  of, 


205;  from  South  Africa,  47,  213;  from 
Soviet  Union,  205;  from  United  States, 
47,  205 

Maydh,  port  of,  139 

measles,  115 

meat:  export  of,  139 

Medecins  Sans  Frontieres,  193 

media,  170-72;  government  control  of, 

170-  71;  under  provisional  government, 

171-  72 

medieval  period:  political  organization  in, 

6;  trade  during,  5,  121 
Menelik  II  (emperor),  12,  198 
Mengistu,  Haile-Mariam,  48,  174,  194; 

talks  with,  173 
Merca,  8,  70,  121;  port  of,  139 
merchant  class,  84,  91-92 
migrations:  directions  of,  4,  5,  6;  limits 

on,  90-91 ;  of  nomads,  68-69;  to  urban 

areas,  92 

military:  advisers,  209;  police,  221,  222; 
schools,  208;  spending,  204;  training, 
208,  209 

military  aid,  196,  208-14,  210;  loans, 
208;  materiel,  208;  from  Soviet  Union, 
208;  from  United  States,  xxvi,  xxxii, 
46,  47,  177,  209;  from  West  Germa- 
ny, 209 

military  officers:  attempted  coup  d'etat 
by,  50;  in  courts,  162;  in  local  govern- 
ment, 159;  opposition  of,  to  Siad  Barre, 
xxix,  166;  political  roles  of,  xxviii,  38; 
rebellion  by,  27 

mineral  deposits,  xxvi,  24,  59 

minerals:  trade  in,  5 

mining,  147 

Ministry  of  Constitutional  Affairs,  157; 

duties  of,  xxix-xxx 
Ministry  of  Defense,  204 
Ministry  of  Health,  112 
Ministry  of  Information  and  National 
Guidance,  45,  171;  Broadcasting  Depart- 
ment, 171;  censorship  board  of,  39;  po- 
litical education  by,  39 
Ministry  of  Interior,  39,  202,  215 
Ministry  of  Local  Government  and  Ru- 
ral Development,  113,  115,  159 
Ministry  of  National  Planning,  67 
Ministry  of  National  Planning  and  Jub- 

ba  Valley  Development,  115 
Mirreh,  Hasan  Ali,  190 
Mobile  Military  Court,  221-22 
MOD  (Mareehaan-Ogaden-Dulbahante) 


272 


Index 


clans,  xxv,  42,  45,  189 
Mogadishu,  8-9,  69,  121;  destroyed,  117, 
153;  fighting  in,  xxx;  history  of,  8-9; 
influence  of,  9;  origin  of  name  of,  8-9; 
population  of,  57;  port  of,  139;  refugees 
in,  57 

Mogadishu  International  Airport,  139 
Moi,  Daniel  arap,  173 
Mudug  Plain,  46;  land  use  in,  136;  vege- 
tation of,  66 
Mukha,  sharifs  of,  xxii,  9 
Mukha  rule,  xxii,  5 
Municipal  Council,  21 
Muse,  Yuusuf,  222 
Muslim  resistance  movement,  xxii 
Muslims:  Ethiopian  protection  of,  6 
Mussolini,  Benito,  14,  122 
myrrh,  147 

Nasser,  Gamal  Abdul,  103 

National  Adult  Education  Center,  110 

National  Assembly,  23-24;  abolished,  37, 

158,  202;  corruption  in,  36;  elections, 

xxiv 

National  Banana  Board,  147 

National  Development  Strategy  and 
Programme,  133 

National  Drought  Relief  Committee,  128 

national  integration:  as  goal  of  govern- 
ment, xxiv;  problems  of,  26-28 

nationalism,  199;  growth  of,  xxii,  125; 
pursuit  of,  xxv,  188 

nationalization,  126 

National  Police  Academy,  16 

National  Political  Office  {see  also  Nation- 
al Public  Relations  Office),  45; 
abolished,  45 

National  Public  Relations  Office  {see  also 
National  Political  Office),  44 

National  Refugee  Commission,  113,  115 

National  Security  Courts,  xxviii,  38,  162, 
221;  cases  heard  by,  38 

National  Security  Service  (NSS),  39,  187, 
217,  222;  established  by  East  Germans, 
xxiv;  power  of,  188;  Soviet  assistance 
in,  217 

National  United  Front  (NUF),  24 
natural  gas:  exploration  for,  138,  147 
navy,  205-6 

nepotism:  clan  system  as  source  of,  84; 
concern  with,  36;  in  government,  xxiv, 
58 


nobles,  78;  status  of,  79 

nomadic  pastoralism,  xxi 

nomads:  cooperative  programs  for,  128, 
129;  education  of,  109,  124;  geographic 
distribution  of,  63;  importance  of 
livestock  to,  121;  importance  of  radios 
to,  26;  literacy  of,  44,  106;  migrations 
of,  68-69;  as  percentage  of  population, 
68;  population  of,  67;  religious  leaders 
among,  94;  religious  practices  of,  97; 
resettlement  of,  39-40,  88,  129,  148; 
settled,  84 

non-clan  groups,  74 

non-Somali  peoples,  79-80;  ancestors  of, 
79,  80;  geographical  distribution  of,  80; 
occupations  of,  80 

north:  characteristics  of,  26 

north- south  dichotomy,  26;  under  coloni- 
al rule,  14;  language  in,  105 

North-Eastern  Region  (of  Kenya),  173 

Northern  Frontier  District  {see  also 
Somaliland,  Kenyan),  182;  fighting  in, 
28;  Somali  attempts  to  regain,  28-29 

Northern  Rangeland  Development 
Project,  128 

Northwest  Region  Agricultural  Develop- 
ment Project,  128 

Norway:  trade  with,  149 

NSS.  See  National  Security  Service 

Nugaal  Valley,  63;  nomad  migrations  to, 
68 


Oakley,  Robert  B.,  xxxvi 
occupational  groups,  82;  advantages  of, 

83;  education  of,  82;  status  of,  22 
OECD.  See  Organisation  for  Economic 

Co-operation  and  Development 
official  class,  122,  124,  125,  144 
Ogaden  {see  also  Somaliland,  Ethiopian), 

xxii,  13;  attempts  to  regain,  xxii,  130; 

British  conquest  of,  xxii;  insurrection 

in,  156,  201;  returned  to  Ethiopia,  xxii, 

16,  19 

Ogaden  clan,  xxv;  alienated  by  Siad 
Barre,  166;  opposition  of,  to  Siad 
Barre,  xxix,  166;  political  influence  of, 
42,  88,  163,  189;  resistance  movements 
of,  93 

Ogaden  War,  xxv-xxvi,  28,  45,  176,  181, 
184-86,  196,  201;  battles  of,  185-86; 
casualties  in,  xxvi;  debt  caused  by, 
xxvi;  defeat  in,  164,  166,  183,  186,  189; 


273 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


ended,  xxvi;  government  decline  after, 
92,  166;  launched,  xxv;  legacy  of,  92, 
189;  materiel  lost  in,  xxvi;  military  aid 
in,  209-10;  origins  of,  184-85;  refugees 
from,  45,  112 

Ogo,  63;  nomad  migrations  to,  68;  rain- 
fall in,  63;  vegetation  of,  64 

oil  {see  also  petroleum):  exploration  for, 
138 

Oman:  military  aid  from,  210 
Omani  rule,  xxii,  9 

OPEC.  See  Organization  of  the  Petro- 
leum Exporting  Countries 

Operation  Restore  Hope,  xxxiv;  coalition 
members  of,  xxxiv;  food  distribution 
under,  xxxiv;  number  of  personnel  in, 
xxxvi;  town  meetings  under,  xxxiv 

opposition  movements,  45,  164-67,  181, 
189-96;  campaigns  of,  xxix;  clashes 
among,  169;  Ethiopian  support  for, 
181-82;  former  military  officers  in,  187; 
reprisals  against,  xxviii,  166;  rise  of, 
xxviii 

Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation 
and  Development  (OECD):  debt  to, 
130 

Organization  of  African  Unity,  182;  in- 
tervention by,  in  civil  war,  xxx;  inter- 
vention by,  in  the  Haud,  30;  member- 
ship in,  177 

Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference: 
intervention  by,  in  civil  war,  xxx 

Organization  of  the  Petroleum  Exporting 
Countries  (OPEC):  debt  to,  130 

orientation  centers,  39 

Oromo,  29;  broadcasts  in,  171 

ostrich  feathers,  5,  10,  121 

Ottoman  rule,  xxii,  5 


Pahlavi,  Mohammad  Reza,  211 

pan-Somalism.  See  Greater  Somalia 

paramilitary  forces,  206,  207 

parasitic  diseases,  112 

Paris  Club:  debt  to,  133 

pastoralists,  73;  conflicts  among,  85; 
geographic  distribution  of,  63;  as  per- 
cent of  population,  57;  trade  by,  with 
agropastoralists,  143 

Patriotic  Benefit  Union,  18 

patrons,  83 

Peace  Corps,  202 


peacekeepers,  85-88 

pejorative  labels,  77;  outlawed,  85 

Penal  Code,  219,  220;  categories  in,  219; 

prosecution  under,  219 
penal  system,  218-19 
People's  Assembly,  xxviii,  89,  158 
People's  Militia.  See  Victory  Pioneers 
Persian  Gulf  War,  176 
petroleum:  import  of,  137-38 
physical  setting,  59 
physicians,  112 

plantation  system,  14,  122-23,  136; 
decline  of,  146-47;  economy  of,  146- 
47;  exports  from,  124;  wage  labor  for, 
124 

poetry,  105 

Police  Corps  of  Somalia  (Corpo  di  Polizia 
della  Somalia),  215 

police  force  (see  also  Somali  Police  Force): 
colonial,  214;  employment  in,  124; 
training  of,  212-13 

Police  Force  of  Somalia  (Forze  di  Polizia 
della  Somalia),  215 

police  officers:  political  roles  of,  38 

Political  Bureau,  216 

political  candidates,  34 

political  organization:  in  medieval  peri- 
od, 6 

political  participation,  26 

political  parties,  17-18,  27;  affiliations 
with,  34;  outlawed,  xxv,  36;  women's 
committees  in,  88 

population:  clan-families  as  percentage  of, 
xxi;  cultivators  as  percentage  of,  57; 
geographic  distribution  of,  68;  homo- 
geneity of,  57;  of  Mogadishu,  57;  in 
1950s,  82;  in  1975,  67;  in  1990s,  57, 
67;  nomads  as  percentage  of,  68;  non- 
Somali  groups  as  percentage  of,  79; 
pastoralists  as  percentage  of,  57;  per- 
centage of,  starving  to  death,  xxxii; 
Samaal  clans  as  percentage  of,  73;  set- 
tled persons  as  percentage  of,  68 

population  statistics:  age  distribution,  68; 
density,  68;  mortality  rate,  112,  115; 
rate  of  increase,  68;  sex  distribution,  68 

ports,  138,  139 

Portuguese:  depredations  of,  9 
Potsdam  Conference  (1945),  xxii,  18 
president:  under  1979  constitution,  xxvi- 

xxviii,  158;  powers  of,  158 
prisoners,  224 

prison  system,  219-20;  conditions  in,  219; 


274 


Index 


facilities  in,  220;  organization  of,  220 
protests:  against  women's  rights,  104 
Provisional  Government  of  National  Uni- 
ty, xxix,  153,  154,  155-56,  170,  174, 
195;  cabinet  of,  155;  legislature  under, 
159;  media,  171-72;  officers  of,  xxix; 
opposition  to,  155,  168;  reaction  to, 
xxx;  structure  of,  155;  United  States 
recognition  of,  177 

Qadhafi,  Muammar  al,  176 
Qadiriyah  Sufi  brotherhood,  98-99 
qat:  production  of,  143,  144;  sales  of,  143; 

trade  in,  144;  use  of,  143 
Qatar:  debt  to,  130;  economic  aid  from, 

xxvi 

Qporsheel,  Jaama  Ali:  charged  with  trea- 
son, 40 
Quran,  96 


radio,  26,  141;  stations,  171 

Radio  Halgan,  192 

Radio  Hargeysa,  172 

Radio  Kulmis,  190,  192 

Radio  Mogadishu,  171 

radios:  importance  of,  to  nomads,  26; 
number  of,  171 

Rahanwayn  clan-family,  xxi,  77-79; 
genealogies  of,  77;  geographic  distribu- 
tion of,  xxi;  as  percentage  of  popula- 
tion, xxi,  73;  resistance  movements  of, 
93;  social  structure  of,  77;  status  of,  74 

rainfall,  59,  60,  136;  in  the  Ogo,  63 

RAMB.  See  Royal  Banana  Plantation 
Monopoly 

rangeland:  management  of,  128 

Rashidi,  Mahammad  Guled  ar,  99 

real  estate:  investment  in,  142 

reconciliation,  xxxvi;  talks,  167-68,  169 

Red  Berets  (Duub  Cas),  xxviii;  reign  of 
terror  by,  48-52,  154,  224 

Red  Cross,  International  Committee  of: 
food  distribution  by,  xxxvi 

refugee  camps,  113-16;  conditions  in, 
113-14,  116-17;  demographic  charac- 
teristics of,  113,  116;  distribution  of, 
115-16;  number  of,  113 

refugees,  112-17,  222-24;  attacks  on, 
224;  from  civil  war,  115;  demographic 
characteristics  of,  113,  115,  116;  in 
Djibouti,  xxx,  224;  from  Ethiopia, 


xxvi,  67,  172;  in  Ethiopia,  xxx,  115, 
1 1 7 ,  1 73 ,  1 74,  224;  in  Europe,  xxx;  in 
Kenya,  xxx,  117,  174,  184,  224;  in 
Mogadishu,  57;  number  of,  112,  113, 
116;  from  Ogaden  War,  45,  112;  from 
Somalia,  xxviii,  xxix,  115,  117,  153, 
173,  174;  in  urban  areas,  92;  in  Yemen, 
xxx 

Regia  Azienda  Monopolio*  Banane.  See 
Royal  Banana  Plantation  Monopoly 

Regional  Security  Council,  221,  222 

regions,  70 

relative  humidity,  60 

relief  programs,  116,  129 

religion  {see  also  Islam):  evil  eye  in,  102; 
freedom  of,  103;  indigenous,  100-102; 
mortal  spirits  in,  101;  rituals  in,  102; 
spirit  possession  in,  101-102 

religious  leaders,  94 

religious  life,  94-104 

reprisals,  48-50,  137,  154;  against  clans, 
xxviii,  xxix,  45,  48,  50,  51-52,  164; 
against  dissidents,  45,  48-50;  against 
opposition  movements,  xxviii,  166;  po- 
litical, 45 

Republic  of  Somaliland,  xxxvii,  195; 

proclaimed,  xxx,  137,  153,  169 
riverine  peoples,  79-80 
roads:  investment  in,  125;  network  of,  139 
Romania:  financial  aid  from,  137-38 
Royal   Banana   Plantation  Monopoly 
(RAMB)  (Regia  Azienda  Monopolio 
Banane),  123 
rural  areas,  91;  economic  hardships  in, 
90-91;  development  of,  89-90;  farm- 
ers in,  91;  lifestyles  in,  69,  90-91;  pet- 
ty traders  in,  91 ;  population  in,  67,  68; 
population  density  in,  68;  wage  workers 
in,  91 
rural  councils,  21 
rural  subsistence  sector,  142-44 
rural-urban  cleavages,  58,  85;  language 
in,  105 


Sahnoun,  Muhammad,  xxxii 

SAIS.  See  Italo-Somali  Agricultural 
Society 

Salih,  Muhammad  ibn,  99 

Salihiyah  Sufi  brotherhood,  13,  98,  99 

Samaal  (Samaale),  71 

Samaal  clans  (see  also  under  individual  clan- 
families),  71,  73,  74-77;  heads  of,  74; 


275 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


hierarchy  and,  74;  as  percentage  of 
population,  73 

Samantaf,  Mahammad  Ali,  49,  144 

Saudi  Arabia:  debt  to,  130;  economic  aid 
from,  xx vi;  exports  to,  148;  exports  to, 
canceled,  132-33;  military  aid  from, 
176,  209,  210;  military  training  in,  208; 
in  Operation  Restore  Hope,  xxxiv;  re- 
lations with,  176;  support  of,  for  Islamic 
militants,  xxxvii 

schools:  British,  17,  108;  enrollment,  108; 
Italian,  108;  nursing,  112;  primary, 
xxv,  109;  Quranic,  106,  108-9;  Roman 
Catholic,  106;  secondary,  xxv,  109 

scientific  socialism,  37,  40-42,  58, 
126-30;  campaign  for,  103-4;  Islam 
under,  58,  103,  188;  religious  leaders 
under,  94;  system  of,  42 

SDA.  See  Somali  Democratic  Alliance 

seasons:  characteristics  of,  59-60;  social 
significance  of,  59-60 

segmental  system,  84,  93-94 

settled  peoples:  conflict  of,  with  nomads, 
85;  lifestyles  of,  69;  literacy  of,  44,  106; 
as  percentage  of  population,  68;  popu- 
lation of,  67;  religious  practices  of,  97 

Seylac,  69;  as  center  of  Muslim  culture,  5 

Shabeellaha  Hoose  Region,  70 

Shabeelle  River,  64 

Shafii,  Muhammad  ibn  Idris  ash,  96 

sharia,  17,  218;  categories  of,  96;  as 
official  law  of  Republic  of  Somaliland, 
xxx ;  origins  of,  96;  versions  of,  96; 
women  under,  89 

sharia  courts:  under  colonial  rule,  160; 
discontinued,  161;  restrictions  on,  39 

Shermaarke,  Abdirashiid  Ali,  xxiv,  24,  32; 
assassinated,  xxiv,  36;  as  president,  33 

Shermaarke  Ali  Saalih,  Haaji,  9-10 

shir,  76 

Short-  and  Long-  Term  programme  for  Refugees 
(Ministry  of  National  Planning  and 
Jubba  Valley  Development),  115 

Siad,  Masleh,  49 

Siad  Barre,  Mahammad:  in  automobile 
accident,  49;  background  of,  200,  214; 
in  coup  of  1969,  xxiv,  3,  36,  153;  mas- 
sacres ordered  by,  51-52;  meeting  of, 
with  Mengistu,  48;  named  president, 
xxiv,  36;  offices  held  by,  38,  45;  after 
Ogaden  War,  189;  personality  cult  of, 
42;  visit  of,  to  United  States,  46 

Siad  Barre  administration:  authoritarian- 


ism of,  153;  civil  code  under,  160-61; 
clan  faction  in,  49;  clans  under,  58,  74, 
153,  163,  166;  constitutional  faction  in, 
49;  economic  development  under,  37, 
126,  153;  economy  under,  89;  educa- 
tion under,  xxv,  108;  foreign  relations 
under,  37;  Islam  under,  xxv;  language 
under,  58;  literacy  under,  xxv;  livestock 
trade  under,  90;  local  governments  dis- 
solved by,  xxviii;  National  Assembly 
abolished  by,  37,  158,  202;  National 
Security  Courts  under,  xxviii;  objec- 
tives of,  xxv;  opposition  to,  xxviii,  154, 
166,  181;  oppression  by,  181,  220; 
overthrow  of,  xxix,  57,  92,  153,  181, 
204;  purges  of,  130;  religion  under, 
94-96,  103;  reprisals  of,  against  oppo- 
sition groups,  xxviii,  xxix,  45,  48-50, 
137,  154,  166;  security  policy  of, 
187-89;  social  development  under,  37, 
89-90;  social  goals  of,  37,  58;  support 
by,  for  Western  Somali  Liberation 
Front,  172;  violations  of  law  by,  219; 
women  under,  58,  88-89,  220 

Siad  Barre  Military  Academy,  208 

slavery:  abolished,  79,  82 

slave  trade,  5;  in  medieval  period,  121; 
outlawed,  79 

SNL.  See  Somali  National  League 

SNM.  See  Somali  National  Movement 

social  development,  37 

socialism,  85;  pursuit  of,  xxiv-xxv 

social  order,  58;  genealogy  in,  71 

Societa  Agricola  Italo-Somala.  See  Italo- 
Somali  Agricultural  Society 

society:  homogeneity  of,  xxi;  value  of  lin- 
guistic facility  in,  105 

SODAF.  See  Somali  Democratic  Action 
Front 

soldaan,  74 

Somalfruit,  147 

Somali  Aeronautical  Corps,  205 

Somalia  Gendarmerie,  16,  214-15 

Somali  Air  Force,  205 

Somali  Airlines,  139-40,  205 

Somali  Chamber  of  Commerce,  133 

Somali  Companies,  200 

Somali    Democratic   Action  Front 

(SODAF),  190 
Somali  Democratic  Alliance  (SDA),  166, 

169,  196 

Somali  Democratic  Movement:  clan  af- 
filiations of,  93,  196 


276 


Index 


Somali  Democratic  Republic:  proclaimed, 
37 

Somali  Islamic  Union  (Ittihad),  xxxvii 
Somaliland,  British,  xxii,  3,  10,  13,  14; 
administration  of,  16,  122;  culture  in, 
xxiv;  ^a-paying  groups  in,  75;  invest- 
ment in,  122;  Italian  invasion  of,  xxii, 
14,  15 

Somaliland,  Ethiopian  (see  also  Ogaden), 
xxii,  3,  10,  13,  16 

Somaliland,  French,  xxii,  3,  13;  invest- 
ment in,  122 

Somaliland,  Italian,  xxii,  3,  10,  11,  13, 
16;  British  conquest  of,  xxii,  15;  cul- 
ture in,  xxiv;  investment  in,  122;  wom- 
en in,  26 

Somaliland,  Kenyan  (Northern  Frontier 

District),  xxii,  3,  13 
Somaliland  Camel  Constabulary,  214 
Somaliland  Camel  Corps,  16,  199,  200 
Somaliland  Coastal  Police,  214 
Somaliland  Indian  Contingent,  199 
Somaliland  Police,  199 
Somaliland  Police  Force,  214 
Somaliland  Scouts,  16,  200 
Somali  language,  80,  104-5;  dialects, 
105;  as  language  of  instruction,  106;  as 
language  of  publication,  171;  orthog- 
raphy for,  xxv,  18,  37,  43,  44,  58,  75, 
106 

Somali  Language  Committee,  43;  dic- 
tionary prepared  by,  44;  grammar  pre- 
pared by,  43;  textbooks  prepared  by,  43 

Somali  Levy,  199 

Somali  National  Army  (SNA)  (see  also 
armed  forces;  military):  demise  of,  201; 
foreign  policy  role  of,  200-201 ;  materiel 
of,  184;  military  aid  to,  183;  mission 
of,  36;  number  of  personnel  in,  184, 
200,  204;  organization  of,  185;  repu- 
tation of,  201 

Somali  National  Congress  (SNC):  coali- 
tion of,  with  Somali  Youth  League,  35; 
initiated,  28 

Somali  National  Front,  xxxvi,  196 

Somali  National  League  (SNL),  25;  clans 
in,  27 

Somali  National  Movement  (SNM), 
xxviii,  50,  116,  137,  164-66,  191-95, 
221;  agreement  signed  with  United 
Somali  Congress,  156,  168,  195;  Cen- 
tral Committee  of,  169;  clan  affiliations 
of,  93,  156,  166;  conference,  169;  con- 


gresses of,  193;  goals  of,  191;  guerrilla 
activities  of,  166,  173;  military  activi- 
ties of,  192-95;  opposition  of,  to  Siad 
Barre,  166;  party  policy  of,  169;  radio 
broadcasts  by,  172;  rejection  of  provi- 
sional government,  xxx,  153;  weapons 
of,  194 

Somali  National  News  Agency  (SON- 
NA),  171 

Somali  National  University:  enrollment 
in,  xxv,  110;  established,  xxv 

Somali  Patriotic  Movement  (SPM),  xxix; 
agreement  signed  with  United  Somali 
Congress,  156,  168,  195;  military  of- 
ficers allied  with,  166;  opposition  of,  to 
United  Somali  Congress  provisional 
government,  xxx 

Somali  people:  ancestral  homeland  of,  4; 
in  Northern  Frontier  District,  29;  ori- 
gin of  name  of,  5 

Somali  Plateau,  63;  elevation,  64 

Somali  Police  Corps,  214 

Somali  Police  Force,  206,  214-16;  ad- 
ministrative structure  of,  215;  air  wing 
of,  215-16;  materiel  of,  215;  missions 
of,  215;  Mobile  Group,  200,  215;  as 
part  of  armed  forces,  215;  recruits,  216; 
specialized  units  of,  215,  216;  training 
for,  215,  216 

Somali  Ports  Authority,  139 

Somali  Prisoner  of  War  Guards,  200 

Somali  Republic,  3 

Somali  Revolutionary  Socialist  Party 
(SRSP),  xxv,  158,  187,  202-4;  creation 
of,  44-45,  202;  congresses  of,  45,  49; 
function  of,  163;  members  of,  163-64 

Somali  Salvation  Democratic  Front 
(SSDF)  (see  also  Somali  Salvation 
Front),  xxviii,  50,  92,  164,  190-91;  clan 
affiliations  of,  93;  opposition  of,  to 
United  Somali  Congress  provisional 
government,  xxx 

Somali  Salvation  Front  (SSF)  (see  also 
Somali  Salvation  Democratic  Front), 
164,  190,  221;  formed,  xxviii,  50 

Somali  Workers  Party  (SWP),  190 

Somali  Youth  Club  (see  also  Somali  Youth 
League):  created,  xxii,  17 

Somali  Youth  League  (SYL)  (see  also 
Somali  Youth  Club),  18,  21;  clans  in, 
27;  coalition  of,  with  Somali  National 
Congress,  35;  election  victories  of,  24, 
31,  32;  factions  in,  23;  goals  of,  xxii, 


277 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


18;  under  Italian  trusteeship,  20; 
recruits  to,  32-33;  trusteeship  proposal 
of,  18 

SONNA.   See  Somali  National  News 

Agency 
Soppe,  Abdulqaadir,  23 
south:  characteristics  of,  26 
South  Africa:  materiel  from,  47,  213 
South  African  Airways,  47,  213 
Southern  Somali  National  Movement 

(SSNM),  xxxvi 
Soviet-Somali  relations,  xxiv,  30,  177, 

183 

Soviet-Somali  Treaty  of  Friendship  and 
Cooperation,   183;  renounced,  183; 
signed,  209 
Soviet  Union:  advisers  from,  30;  debt  to, 
130;  financial  assistance  from,  30-31, 
85,  129;  food  relief  from,  129;  influence 
of,  on  armed  forces,  xxiv,  30;  military 
assistance  of,  182-83,  205-6;  military 
assistance  of,  to  Ethiopia,  181;  military 
training  by,  30,  207-8;  support  of,  for 
Ethiopia,  183 
SPM.  See  Somali  Patriotic  Movement 
SRC.  See  Supreme  Revolutionary  Council 
SRSP.  See  Somali  Revolutionary  Socialist 
Party 

SSDF.  See  Somali  Salvation  Democratic 
Front 

SSF.  See  Somali  Salvation  Front 
SSNM.  See  Southern  Somali  National 

Movement 
Stadia  Corna  Affair,  52 
starvation,  xxix,  59;  death  by,  xxxii 
subclans,  77 

Sudan:  food  relief  from,  129;  mediation 

by,  30 
suffrage,  157 

Sufi  brotherhoods,  xxv;  agricultural  reli- 
gious communities  of,  98;  Ahmadiyah- 
Idrisiyah,  98;  Chain  of  Blessing,  100; 
membership  in,  100;  opposition  of,  to 
colonial  rule,  102;  Qadiriyah,  98;  Sali- 
hiyah,  98;  spread  of  Islam  by,  9 

sugar,  14,  125;  output,  124;  production, 
123 

Supreme  Court,  162 

Supreme  Revolutionary  Council  (SRC), 
xxiv,  36,  37-40,  187;  dissolved,  xxv, 
45;  established,  202;  foreign  relations 
under,  37;  goals  of,  37;  ideology  of,  37; 
members  of,  37;  purged,  37,  40;  re- 


vived, xxv,  46;  Siad  Barre  as  president 
of,  36;  women's  rights  declared  by,  89 
Swahili,  80,  104;  broadcasts  in,  171 
swamps,  66 
Swayne,  E.J.E.,  199 
Sweden:  food  relief  from,  129 
Switzerland:  food  relief  from,  129 
SWP.  See  Somali  Workers  Party 
SYL.  See  Somali  Youth  League 


Taleex,  13 

teachers,  109 

telephones,  141 

television,  171 

temperatures,  60 

terrain,  60-66 

Territorial  Council,  21 

Territory  of  the  Afars  and  Issas  {see  also 
Djibouti;  French  Somaliland),  31 

Three- Year  Plan,  1979-81,  67,  103,  126 

towns,  69,  80;  distribution  of,  70;  govern- 
ment definition  of,  70;  merchants  in, 
91-92 

trade,  69,  148-49;  with  Arabia,  121; 
balance,  149;  with  China,  121;  with  In- 
dia, 121;  medieval,  5 

traders,  91-92 

trading  centers,  69-70 

transportation,  138-40;  expenditures  for, 
138;  improvements  in,  138;  networks, 
xxvi 

tribalism:  denounced,  39 

Trusteeship  Administration  (AFIS)  (Am- 

ministrazione  Fiduciaria  Italiana  della 

Somalia),  20 
Trusteeship  Agreement,  19-20;  education 

under,  106 
tuberculosis,  111 

Turkey:  in  Operation  Restore  Hope, 
xxxiv 


Ujuuraan,  9 

Umar  Mahamuud  lineage,  50 

UN.  See  United  Nations 

UNHCR.  See  United  Nations  High  Com- 
missioner for  Refugees 

uniform  civil  code  (1973),  39 

UNISOM  II.  See  United  Nations 
Operations-Somalia 


278 


Index 


United  Arab  Emirates,  117;  economic  aid 
from,  xxvi;  intervention  by,  in  civil 
war,  xxx;  military  aid  from,  210 

United  Nations:  intervention  by,  in  civil 
war,  154;  membership  in,  177 

United  Nations  Advisory  Council,  20 

United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least 
Developed  Countries,  109 

United  Nations  Consultative  Commission 
for  Integration,  27 

United  Nations  Consultative  Commission 
for  Legislation,  27 

United  Nations  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights,  220 

United  Nations  Development  Pro- 
gramme, 20-21,  138;  pressure  from, 
48 

United  Nations  Food  and  Agriculture  Or- 
ganization (FAO),  126 

United  Nations  General  Assembly,  xxii, 
19-20 

United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 

Refugees  (UNHCR),  112,  116 
United   Nations  Operations-Somalia 

(UNOSOM  II),  xxxvi 
United  Nations  Peacekeeping  Forces, 

xxxii;  problems  with,  xxxii 
United  Nations  Trusteeship  Council,  20, 

200 

United  Somali  Congress  (USC)  {see  also 
Provisional  Government  of  National 
Unity),  xxviii,  92,  224;  agreements 
with  Somali  National  Movement  and 
Somali  Patriotic  Movement,  156,  168, 
195;  clans  in,  166;  factions  in,  154,  170; 
Siad  Barre  overthrown  by,  154;  unity 
talks  proposed  by,  xxx 

United  Somali  Front  (USF),  169,  196 

United  Somali  Party  (USP),  18,  25,  196; 
clans  in,  17,  27 

United  States:  financial  aid  from,  31,  46, 
47,  48,  139,  176;  food  relief  from,  129; 
joint  military  exercises  with,  48,  176; 
materiel  from,  47;  military  aid  from, 
xxvi,  xxxii,  46,  47,  176,  181,  210-12; 
military  intervention  by,  xxxiv;  mili- 
tary training  in,  208;  police  force 
trained  by,  xxiv,  31,  215;  provisional 
government  recognized  by,  177 

United  States  Agency  for  International 
Cooperation  (AIC),  20 

United  States  Agency  for  International 
Development  (AID),  128 


United  States  Centers  for  Disease  Con- 
trol, xxxii,  113,  115 

United  States  Rapid  Deployment  Force, 
47 

United  States-Somali  relations,  45-46, 

52,  176-77,  196 
urban  areas:  migration  to,  92;  population 

in,  68;  refugees  in,  92 
urban  subsistence  sector,  144-46 
USC.  See  United  Somali  Congress 
USF.  See  United  Somali  Front 
Usmaan,  Aadan  Abdullah,  23,  26,  32,  33, 

51 

Usmaan,  Mahammad  Aadan  Shaykh,  46 
Usmaan,  Mahammad  Shaykh  (colonel), 
50 

USP.  See  United  Somali  Party 


vegetation,  60-66;  geographic  distribu- 
tion of,  64 

Victory  Pioneers,  202,  206,  216-17,  221, 
222;  mission  of,  217;  terrorism  by,  50 

Voice  of  the  Republic  of  Somaliland,  141, 
172 

Voice  of  Somalia,  29 
voting  practices,  35 


Wadaan  clan,  84 

wadad;  pi.,  wadaddo,  xxv,  76,  97;  learn- 
ing of,  101 
wage  workers,  91 
warfare,  198 
warlords,  xxxii 

warriors,  76,  196-98;  religious  leaders 

among,  94;  role  of,  94 
Warsangali  clan,  166 
water  system,  17;  poisoned  by  Siad  Barre, 

137 

Weapons  School,  208 
weather,  59 

Western  Somali  Liberation  Front 
(WSLF),  47-48;  defeat  of,  186;  recruits 
for,  207;  support  for,  172,  183,  184 

women:  under  customary  law,  89;  edu- 
cation of,  89;  as  food  distribution  coor- 
dinators, xxxiv-xxxvi;  under  Islamic 
law,  89;  in  military,  207;  in  police 
force,  216;  in  politics,  88-89,  157; 
raped  by  Victory  Pioneers,  50,  51; 


279 


Somalia:  A  Country  Study 


status  of,  22,  40,  58,  88-89,  104,  220;     Yemen:  exports  to,  148-49;  food  relief 


World  Bank:  economic  aid  from,  xxvi,     Young  Pioneers,  201 

46,  128,  129;  membership  in,  177;  Yugoslavia:  food  relief  from,  129 
pressure  from,  48 

World  War  II,  xxii,  14-15 

WSLF.  See  Western  Somali  Liberation 
Front 


Xiddigta  Oktoobar  (October  Star),  103,  171      Zeilawi,  Abd  ar  Rahman  az,  98 


voting  by,  22,  26,  88-89 
Women's  Auxiliary  Corps,  207 
Woqooyi  Galbeed  Region,  70 


from,  129 
Yeshaq  (negus),  8 
Yibir,  102 


Zanzibari  rule,  xxi 
zar  cult,  101-2 


280 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-87 

Greece 

550-98 

A  lha  n  i  a 

550-78 

fli  i ;» t<=>m  a  1  a 

<S>S0-44 

550-174 

\JUlllta 

550-59 

/xllgUld 

550-82 

\j  uy  ana  aii\_i  uciill 

JJU     /  J 

A  rorpnti n  ^ 

550-1 51 

550-169 

Australia 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-1 7fi 

<J  J \J      1  /  U 

An  ctri 

550-21 

India 

tS  'SO—  1  75 

JJ  all  g  1  aUC  oil 

5^0-1 54 

TnHian  ijp#*5*ti 

XllLllu.il  WCwtlll 

■i^O-l  70 

JJU     1  /  U 

X3C1  Hill 

550-39 

lllUUilCMa 

^0-66 

550-68 

UU\J  uo 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-25 

Israel 

JJU  Dl 

Burma 

JJU— 1 Oi 

Italy 

v_i  dill  UUUla 

J  JU  JU 

Japan 

•JJKJ    1  UU 

V^cullCl  UU11 

550-34 

1  Ul  Cio.Il 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

j  ju  uu 

tici0-41 

J  JU  Tl 

J\UICa,  OUUU1 

550-26 

y^KjiKJ  inula 

550-58 

Laos 

jju-jj 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

R^n_94 

JJU  it 

Liebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-1 52 

Cuba 

550-45 

IVlaiay  Ma 

550-22 

flvnni  q 

V — J  V  Ul  Ud 

550-161 

\/f  511  i  nt5i  n  1 5i 

J  JU- 1  Jo 

Czechoslovakia 

jju-/y 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic  and 

550-76 

Mongolia 

Haiti 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-167 

Finland 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-46 

Panama 

281 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-42 

Peru 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-72 

Philippines 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-162 

Poland 

550-97 

Uruguay 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-160 

Romania 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Soviet  Union 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

282 


PIN: 004263*000 


