ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY 
IN  VIETNAM 


MEDICAL  DEPARTMENT,  UNITED  STATES  ARMY 

SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 

ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY 


Editor  for  Orthopedic  Surgery 

Colonel  William  E.  Burkhalter,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 


by 

Colonel  Anthony  Ballard,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 
Colonel  Paul  W.  Brown,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 
Colonel  William  E.  Burkhalter,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 
Colonel  William  W.  Eversmann,  Jr.,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 
Colonel  John  A.  Feagin,  Jr.,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 
Colonel  Gerald  W.  Mayfield,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 
Colonel  George  E.  Omer,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 


OFFICE  OF  THE  SURGEON  GENERAL 

AND 

CENTER  OF  MILITARY  HISTORY 
UNITED  STATES  ARMY 
WASHINGTON,  D.C.,  1994 


Rh  <3 1  > 


/i&i 

•&7<? 

an 


Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 


Orthopedic  surgery  in  Vietnam  /  editor,  William  E.  Burkhalter  ;  by 
Anthony  Ballard  . . .  [et  al.]. 

p.  cm.  —  (Surgery  in  Vietnam)  (CMH  pub  ;  83-7) 

At  head  of  title:  Medical  Department,  United  States  Army. 

Includes  bibliographical  references  and  index. 

1.  Orthopedic  surgery — Vietnam — history.  2.  Vietnamese  Conflict, 
1961-1975 — Medical  care.  3.  Orthopedic  surgery— United  States — 
History.  4.  Surgery,  Military— Vietnam.  5.  Surgery,  Military — 

United  States.  I.  Burkhalter,  William  E.,  1928-  .  II.  Ballard, 

Anthony.  III.  United  States.  Dept,  of  the  Army.  Office  of  the 
Surgeon  General.  IV.  Center  of  Military  History.  V.  United  States. 
Army  Medical  Dept.  V.  Series.  VII.  Series:  CMH  pub  ;  83-7. 

[DNLM:  1.  Orthopedics — history — United  States.  2.  Orthopedics — 
history — Vietnam.  3.  Military  Medicine — United  States.  4.  Wounds 
and  Injuries — surgery.  5.  Wounds  and  Injuries — rehabilitation. 

6.  Vietnam.  7.  United  States.  WE  168  077  1993] 

RD21 11961  .078  1993 

6 17.3 '00973 '09597— dc20 

DNLM/DC  93-39914 

for  Library  of  Congress  CIP 


CMH  Pub  83-7 


First  Printing 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  Mail  Stop:  SSOP 
U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


MEDICAL  DEPARTMENT,  UNITED  STATES  ARMY 


The  volumes  comprising  the  official  history  of  the  Medical  Department  of  the 
United  States  Army  in  Vietnam  are  prepared  by  the  U.S.  Army  Center  of  Military 
History  and  published  under  the  direction  of  the  Surgeon  General  and  the  Chief  of 
Military  History.  These  volumes  are  divided  into  two  groups:  (1)  the  professional,  or 
clinical  and  technical,  and  (2)  medically  related  subjects.  This  is  the  third  volume  of 
the  former  group;  the  first  two  volumes  are  entitled  “Skin  Diseases  in  Vietnam, 
1965-72,”  and  “General  Medicine  and  Infectious  Diseases.” 


Center  of  Military  History 


Brigadier  General  Harold  W.  Nelson,  Chief  of  Military  History 
Jeffrey  J.  Clarke,  Chief  Historian 
Mary  C.  Gillett,  Chief  Clinical  History  Program 
Colonel  William  T.  Bowers,  Chief  Histories  Division 


Authors 


Anthony  Ballard,  M.D. 

Colonel,  MC,  USA  (Ret.).  Professor  of  Orthopedics  and  Rehabilitation,  University  of 
Miami  School  of  Medicine;  Chief,  Section  of  Pediatric  Orthopedics,  Jackson  Memorial 
Hospital,  Miami,  FL;  Director  of  Orthopedic  Residency  Education,  Department  of 
Orthopedics  and  Rehabilitation,  University  of  Miami/Jackson  Memorial  Medical  Cen¬ 
ter,  1982-90;  Commanding  Officer,  2d  Surgical  Hospital,  Republic  of  Vietnam,  1966-67; 
Chief,  Orthopedic  Service,  Tripler  Army  Medical  Center,  Honolulu,  HI,  1969-71;  Chief, 
Orthopedic  Service,  Fitzsimons  Army  Medical  Center,  Denver,  CO,  1974-80. 


Paul  W.  Brown,  M.D. 

Colonel,  MC,  USA  (Ret.).  Clinical  Professor  of  Orthopedics  and  Rehabilitation  and 
Clinical  Professor  of  Plastic  and  Reconstructive  Surgery,  Yale  University  School  of 
Medicine;  Consultant  in  Hand  Surgery,  Veterans  Administration;  Chief  of  Hand 
Surgery,  St.  Vincent’s  Medical  Center,  Bridgeport,  CT;  Chief,  Division  of  Orthopedics, 
Fitzsimons  General  Hospital,  1966-69. 


William  E.  Burkhalter,  M.D.  (deceased) 

Colonel,  MC,  USA  (Ret.).  Professor  and  Associate  Chairman  for  Clinical  Affairs  in  the 
Department  of  Orthopedics  and  Rehabilitation;  Chief,  Division  of  Hand  Surgery;  De¬ 
partment  of  Orthopedics  and  Rehabilitation,  University  of  Miami  School  of  Medicine, 
Miami,  FL;  Chief  of  Orthopedics  and  Chief,  Professional  Service,  85th  Evacuation  Hos¬ 
pital,  Republic  of  Vietnam,  1965-66;  Chief  of  Orthopedics,  Tripler  Army  Medical  Cen¬ 
ter,  Honolulu,  HI,  1967-69;  Orthopedic  Consultant,  U.S.  Army,  Pacific,  1967-69;  Chief 
of  Orthopedics,  Fitzsimons  Army  Medical  Center,  Denver,  CO,  1969-74. 


William  W.  Eversmann,  Jr.,  M.D. 

Colonel,  MC,  USA  (Ret.).  Chief,  Orthopedics,  and  Chief,  Professional  Services,  27th 
Surgical  Hospital,  and  Chief,  Orthopedic  Service,  91st  Evacuation  Hospital,  Republic  of 
Vietnam,  1971;  Member  of  teaching  staff.  Orthopedic  Service,  Tripler  Army  Medical 
Center;  Assistant  Chief  and  Chief,  Orthopedic  Service,  Fitzsimons  Army  Medical  Cen¬ 
ter  until  1983;  affiliated  with  the  Iowa  Medical  Clinic,  Cedar  Rapids;  President,  Iowa 
Medical  Society,  1992-93. 


Authors 


viii 

John  A.  Feagin,  Jr.,  M.D. 

Colonel,  MC,  USA  (Ret.).  Associate  Professor  of  Orthopedics,  Duke  University,  1990 
to  present;  Associate  Professor,  Biomedical  Engineering,  Duke  University  Medical 
Center,  1990  to  present;  Chief  of  Orthopedic  Surgery,  Durham  VA  Hospital,  1990  to 
present;  Clinical  Professor  of  Surgery,  University  of  Health  Sciences,  Bethesda,  MD, 
1989  to  present;  Chief  of  Orthopedics,  85th  Evacuation  Hospital,  Qui  Nhon,  Vietnam, 
1966-67;  Team  Physician,  United  States  Military  Academy,  West  Point,  NY,  1968-72; 
Assistant  Chief,  Orthopedics,  Letterman  Army  Medical  Center,  1972-78;  Commander, 
Keller  Army  Hospital,  West  Point,  NY,  1978-79. 


Gerald  W.  Mayfield,  M.D. 

Colonel,  MC,  USA  (Ret.).  Chief  of  Orthopedics,  121st  Evacuation  Hospital,  Korea, 

1966- 67;  Assistant  Chief  of  Orthopedics,  U.S.  Army  Hospital,  Camp  Zama,  Japan, 

1967- 68;  Chief  of  Orthopedics,  U.S.  Army  Hospital,  Camp  Zama,  Japan,  1969-70; 
Teaching  Staff,  Fitzsimons  Army  Medical  Center,  1971-74;  Assistant  Chief  of  Orthope¬ 
dics,  Tripler  Army  Medical  Center,  1974-77;  Chief  of  Orthopedics,  Straub  Clinic  &  Hos¬ 
pital,  Honolulu,  HI,  1980-91;  Assistant  Clinical  Professor  of  Orthopedic  Surgery,  John 
A.  Burns  School  of  Medicine,  University  of  Hawaii,  1977-91. 


George  E.  Omer,  Jr.,  M.D. 

Colonel,  MC,  USA  (Ret.).  Professor  of  Anatomy,  Orthopedics  and  Surgery;  Chairman, 
Department  of  Orthopedics  and  Rehabilitation;  Chief,  Division  of  Hand  Surgery,  Depart¬ 
ment  of  Surgery,  University  of  New  Mexico  School  of  Medicine,  Albuquerque;  Assistant 
Chief,  Orthopedic  Service,  William  Beaumont  Army  Hospital,  1956;  Chief,  Surgical  Ser¬ 
vices,  Irwin  Army  Hospital,  1957-59;  Orthopedic  Consultant,  Eighth  U.S.  Army,  Chief, 
Orthopedics,  121st  Evacuation  Hospital,  Korea,  1959-60;  Assistant  Chief,  Orthopedic  Ser¬ 
vice,  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital,  1960-63;  Director,  Orthopedic  Residency  Training  Pro¬ 
gram  and  Pathology  Courses,  Armed  Forces  Institute  of  Pathology,  1963-65;  Consultant 
in  Orthopedic  Surgery  to  the  Surgeon  General,  U.S.  Army,  Chief,  Hand  Surgery  Center, 
Chief,  Orthopedic  Service,  and  Assistant  Chief,  Department  of  Surgery,  Brooke  Army 
Medical  Center,  1965-70. 


Foreword 


Many  in  our  society,  today  and  in  the  past,  have  found  it  difficult  to  reconcile  the 
professions  of  medicine  and  the  military,  on  the  thesis  that  one  exists  to  maintain  life 
and  the  other  to  take  it.  Nothing  could  be  further  from  the  truth.  The  ultimate  goals 
of  each  are  precisely  the  same:  preservation  of  life,  society,  and  the  dignity  of  man. 

When  deterrence  fails  and  war  does  come,  these  professions  become  even  fur¬ 
ther  intertwined.  Medicine  must  keep  the  force  fit,  prevent  or  treat  disease,  and  re¬ 
pair  the  injured.  Far  more  is  at  stake  than  just  the  moral  obligation  to  care  for  our 
wounded.  The  successful  prosecution  of  warfare  demands  that  we  treat  and  return 
the  wounded  to  battle  as  quickly  as  possible.  If  we  do  our  job  well,  we  become  the 
principal  source  of  experienced  replacements  in  wartime. 

Surgeons  must  not  forget  the  lessons  so  bitterly  learned  in  previous  wars.  It  is 
time  to  remember  what  we  did  in  the  Vietnam  conflict.  We  did  many  things  right  in 
Vietnam.  Perhaps  better  than  in  any  previous  war,  we  remembered  the  lessons  of  the 
past.  We  managed  wounds  properly  and  uniformly,  even  though  there  was  turbu¬ 
lence  in  the  surgical  ranks,  as  would  be  expected  in  a  one-year  combat  zone  tour.  We 
practiced  delayed  wound  closure  from  the  start  and  quickly  relearned  that  closure 
by  secondary  intention  is  the  preferred  course  in  many  wounds.  We  took  advantage 
of  the  helicopter  to  change  the  entire  system  of  medical  care  from  one  of  moving 
treatment  facilities  to  patients  to  one  of  moving  patients  to  treatment  facilities.  This 
allowed  us  to  create  the  most  sophisticated  medical  facilities  ever  seen  in  a  combat 
theater.  We  had  ample  blood,  fluids,  and  adjunctive  antibiotics.  Our  logistical  supply 
line,  though  extraordinarily  long,  was  effective  and  essentially  unthreatened.  We 
used  the  continuum  of  care  inherent  in  our  system  well,  evacuating  the  patients  via 
stages  from  the  combat  zone  to  the  continental  United  States  (CONUS). 

Since  the  Vietnam  era  a  new  generation  of  surgeons  has  been  trained.  Medicine 
and  surgery  have  advanced  technologically,  and  there  has  been  sufficient  time  to  for¬ 
get  the  basics  of  war  surgery.  To  prevent  this  loss  of  knowledge,  the  authors  of  this 
volume  undertook  their  task.  The  group  of  orthopedic  surgeons  who  came  together 
in  1972  to  write  this  history  knew  it  would  be  difficult  to  combine  the  historical 
record  with  a  volume  useful  for  orthopedic  surgeons  in  their  day-to-day  practice.  To 
be  credible,  their  statements  and  conclusions  needed  to  be  supported  by  scientific 
data  which  had  been  difficult  to  collect  in  a  wartime  situation.  The  wide  dispersion 
of  orthopedic  patients  throughout  CONUS  made  comprehensive  data  especially  dif¬ 
ficult  to  retrieve.  Therefore,  most  of  the  clinical  data  in  the  chapters  came  not  from  a 
central  retrieval  system  but  from  records  collected  by  the  individual  contributors. 
Had  centers  for  hand,  peripheral  nerve,  amputee,  and  other  medical  problems  been 
established,  as  would  have  been  ideal,  data  could  have  been  collected  and  treatment 
modalities  altered  on  the  basis  of  this  experience  even  during  the  war. 

The  authors  of  this  volume,  already  distinguished  military  surgeons  and  educa¬ 
tors  when  the  book  was  started  in  1972,  have  each  achieved  additional  honors  in  sub¬ 
sequent  years.  The  Army  Medical  Department  is  fortunate  that  these  leaders  in 
American  orthopedic  surgery  completed  full  careers  in  Army  medicine  prior  to  their 
present  important  roles  in  national  medicine. 


X 


Professor  William  E.  Burkhalter  (Colonel,  Medical  Corps,  retired),  the  coordi¬ 
nating  author/editor,  exercised  noteworthy  leadership  in  compiling  this  text.  The 
other  authors  are  busy  men  who  have  given  their  time  and  effort  out  of  loyalty  to 
Army  medicine  and  to  society.  These  men  were  my  heroes  when  I  was  a  young  sur¬ 
geon  in  Vietnam.  They  remain  my  heroes  today. 

I  must  commend  our  medical  editor,  Lottie  Applewhite,  formerly  of  the  Letter- 
man  Army  Institute  of  Research,  who  volunteered  hundreds  of  hours  of  work  on 
this  volume.  Finally,  the  authors  and  I  thank  Dr.  Mary  Gillett,  director  of  the  clinical 
history  program  at  the  Center  of  Military  History,  for  placing  this  work  “at  the  head 
of  the  queue.” 


Frank  F.  Ledford,  Jr. 
Lieutenant  General ,  USA 
The  Surgeon  General 


Preface 


The  surgeons  who  participated  in  the  writing  of  this  history  knew  each  other  per¬ 
sonally  and  professionally  while  in  the  military  and  to  varying  degrees  have  kept 
contact  following  their  retirement.  Colonel  Raymond  Bagg,  even  though  his  name 
does  not  appear  as  an  author  on  any  of  the  individual  chapters,  was  an  important 
source  of  information  and  follow-up  data  on  patients  who  passed  through  the  106th 
General  Hospital  in  Yokohama,  Japan.  Without  this  information,  including  subse¬ 
quent  follow-up,  very  little  could  have  been  said  about  long-term  results  in  certain 
areas  of  this  history. 

This  volume  could  not  have  come  to  completion  without  the  efforts  of  Charles  J. 
Simpson,  who  during  the  beginning  of  this  volume  was  the  director  of  the  Clinical 
History  Program  at  the  Center  of  Military  History  in  Washington,  D.C.  His  constant 
enthusiastic  interest  and  input  made  us  want  to  complete  this  volume  more  quickly 
than  it  was  done.  It  was  Charlie’s  idea  to  have  this  really  be  contemporary  history  so 
that  it  could  be  used  in  subsequent  conflicts  and  new  surgeons  might  not  have  to  re¬ 
learn  the  lessons  of  the  past. 

We  are  all  pleased  that  it  is  completed.  We  are  sorry  that  it  took  so  long,  but  I  think 
it  represents  our  true  feelings  about  the  management  of  the  patients  from  the  battle¬ 
field  through  the  evacuation  system  to  their  final  disposition  in  the  United  States. 

In  addition  to  Charlie  Simpson  and  the  individual  physicians  responsible  for  writ¬ 
ing  the  chapters  of  this  volume,  many  others  were  involved.  Included,  especially,  were 
the  physicians  and  nurses  who  took  care  of  the  patients  on  a  day-to-day  basis,  the  or- 
thotist  and  prosthetist  who  fabricated  the  external  devices,  the  physical  and  occupa¬ 
tional  therapists,  and,  most  importantly,  the  patients  themselves. 

In  most  instances  these  patients  had  greater  motivation  than  many  of  us  had  seen 
in  any  patient  population.  It  was  easy  for  most  of  the  physicians  to  harness  this  enthu¬ 
siasm  and  energy  in  the  rehabilitation  effort  of  this  group  of  orthopedic  patients.  This 
high  degree  of  motivation  is  responsible  for  much  of  the  success  that  we  enjoyed  in 
managing  this  group  of  patients. 

We  would  like  to  dedicate  this  volume  to  Charles  J.  Simpson  (“Charlie”)  and  to 
the  patients  who  are  the  basis  of  this  volume. 


William  E.  Burkhalter,  M.D. 


Introduction 


Dr.  William  E.  (Bill)  Burkhalter  died  before  this  volume  finally  emerged  from 
the  labyrinths  of  government.  He  had  labored  mightily  to  cajole,  coerce,  and  brow¬ 
beat  the  coauthors  to  complete  their  chapters.  That  it  has  been  finally  published  is 
due  in  large  part  to  his  determination — quite  typical  of  his  devotion  to  duty  and  to 
the  patients  we  all  served. 

Sad  though  his  death  was,  it  would  be  truly  tragic  if  the  lessons  we  learned  were 
allowed  to  lie  fallow.  With  every  war  we  learn  something  new  about  wound  man¬ 
agement,  and  yet,  with  each  new  war,  we  seem  unable  to  promptly  apply  the  lessons 
learned  from  the  preceding  one.  All  who  are  charged  with  the  care  of  future  casual¬ 
ties  should  carefully  read  what  Dr.  Burkhalter  has  summarized  in  the  last  chapter  of 
this  work. 


Paul  W.  Brown,  M.D. 


Contents 


Chapter  Page 

1  The  Soldier  and  His  Wound  in  Vietnam 

(Colonel  John  A.  Feagin,Jr.,  MC,  USA  (Ret.)) .  1 

The  Milieu .  1 

Care  of  the  Wounded  Soldier .  3 

Care  of  the  Soldier’s  Wound .  6 

Wound  Infection  and  Antibiotics .  10 

MEDCAP  Activities .  16 

2  Penetrating  Injuries  of  the  Thigh  With  Associated  Femoral  Fracture 

(Colonel  William  E.  Burkhalter,  MC,  USA  (Ret.)) .  21 

Practices  During  the  Vietnam  Conflict .  22 

Treatment  in  Japan .  27 

Treatment  in  CONUS — Ambulation  in  the  Cast  Brace .  30 

Lessons  Learned .  32 

3  Penetrating  Wounds  of  the  Leg  With  Associated  Fractures  of  the  Tibia 

(Colonel  William  E.  Burkhalter,  MC,  USA  (Ret.)) .  39 

Historical  Background .  39 

Treatment  in  Vietnam .  40 

Treatment  After  Vietnam .  44 

Recommendations .  52 

4  Wounds  of  the  Hand 

(Colonel  William  E.  Burkhalter,  MC,  USA  (Ret.)) .  55 

Development  of  Army  Hand  Surgery .  55 

Conclusions .  80 

5  Wounds  of  the  Foot 

(Colonel  Anthony  Ballard,  MC,  USA  (Ret.)) .  83 

Treatment  Principles .  83 

Specific  Injuries .  87 

Recommended  Operative  Approach  to  Deep  Compartments  of 

the  Wounded  Foot .  102 

Summary .  105 

6  Wounds  of  Joints 

(Colonel  Anthony  Ballard,  MC,  USA  (Ret.)) .  107 

Historical  Background .  107 

Overall  Policy  in  the  Treatment  of  Joint  Wounds .  110 

Wounds  of  the  Knee .  Ill 

Wounds  of  the  Hip .  119 

Wounds  of  the  Shoulder .  123 


XIV 


Chapter  Page 

7  Vietnam  War  Amputees 

( Colonel  Gerald  W.  Mayfield,  MC,  USA  (Ret.)) .  131 

Wounds  and  Wounding  Agents .  131 

Management  of  Patients  With  Amputations .  132 

Management  of  Amputations  Classified  by  Anatomical  Site .  137 

Special  Prosthetic  Considerations .  146 

Lessons  Learned .  149 

8  Peripheral  Nerve  Problems  (Colonel  George  E.  Omer,  Jr.,  MC,  USA 

(Ret.),  and  Colonel  William  W.  Eversmann,  Jr.,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) .  155 

Initial  Surgery .  155 

Spontaneous  Recovery .  157 

Management  of  Painful  Neuroma  in  Continuity  and  Causalgia ....  158 

Surgical  Techniques .  166 

Extremity  Reconstruction .  170 

Long-Term  Follow-up  of  Combat-Incurred  Peripheral  Nerve 

Injuries  at  Fitzsimons  Army  Medical  Center .  182 

Summation .  185 

9  Rehabilitation  of  the  Combat-Wounded  Amputee 

(Colonel  Paul  W  Brown,  MC,  USA  (Ret.)) .  189 

Historical  Background .  189 

Evacuation  Policies  and  the  Patient  in  the  Vietnam  War .  191 

Care  in  CONUS  Hospitals .  192 

Rehabilitation:  The  Challenge .  194 

Motivation  and  the  Rehabilitation  Program .  197 

Lessons  Learned  and  Recommendations .  207 

10  Epilogue:  General  Thoughts  on  the  Management  of  Orthopedic  Casualties 

(Colonel  William  E.  Burkhalter,  MC,  USA  (Ret.)) .  211 

Lessons  Learned  and  Unlearned .  211 

Communication  and  Consultants .  213 

Continuity  of  Care  and  Rehabilitation .  213 

Index .  217 

Illustrations 

Figure 

1  The  MedEvac  “Huey”  helicopter .  2 

2  Evacuation  of  a  wounded  soldier .  4 

3  High-velocity  gunshot  wound  of  the  humerus .  7 

4  Examples  of  patient-care  facilities .  14-15 

5  Elevation  to  allow  circumferential  extremity  surgical  preparation .  23 

6  Tobruk  splint  used  with  femoral  fractures .  24 

7  Ipsilateral  femoral  and  tibial  fracture  with  contralateral  below-knee 

amputation  in  continuous  traction .  25 

8  Cast  brace  to  allow  stabilization  and  use  of  limb  musculature .  30 

9  Moderate  soft  tissue  injuries  with  femoral  fracture  and  bone  loss .  33 


XV 


Figure  Page 

10  Severe  soft  tissue  injury  with  bone  loss .  34-35 

1 1  Use  of  an  air  splint .  41 

12  Example  of  poor  debridement  which  resulted  in  below-knee 

amputation .  42 

13  Treatment  of  tibial  shaft  fracture  with  long-leg  and  Delbet  casts .  45 

14  Open  fracture  with  exposed  bone  and  contralateral  above-knee 

amputation .  48-49 

15  Middle  one-third  tibia  bone  loss .  50-51 

16  Blast  injury  to  hand  with  skin  and  bone  loss .  57-59 

17  Through-and-through  high-velocity  wound  of  a  hand  with  previous 

index  ray  excision .  61-63 

18  Multiple  open  fractures  with  skin  loss .  65-67 

19  Viable  but  unstable  index  finger  following  blast  injury .  70-71 

20  Bone  loss  injury  to  first  metacarpal  with  resultant  adduction 

contracture  of  the  thumb .  73-76 

21  Severe  explosive  injury  to  the  wrist  with  bone,  tendon,  and  skin  loss.  .  .  78-80 

22  Necrosis  of  the  forefoot  following  crush  injury .  84 

23  Medial  plantar  wound  from  bamboo  stake  penetration  into  deep 

plantar  compartments .  88 

24  Skin  incision  for  exploration  of  plantar  foot  compartments,  avoiding 

primary  weightbearing  prominences .  89 

25  Retracted  laciniate  ligament,  exposing  posterior  tibial .  89 

26  Shotgun  wound  of  the  ankle  with  destruction  of  the  talus  and  fracture 

of  the  calcaneus .  92-93 

27  Longitudinal  heel-splitting  incision  to  debride  infected  calcaneus  and 

plantar  heel  wounds .  94 

28  Perforating  gunshot  wound  of  the  heel .  95 

29  Gunshot  wound  to  the  hindfoot  with  severe  damage  to  the  calcaneus 

and  nerves  and  arteries  of  the  heel  pad .  96 

30  Chopart  amputation  with  common  equivinorus  deformity  of  the 

hindfoot .  99 

31  Loss  of  lateral  rays,  compatible  with  fair  foot  function .  99 

32  Loss  of  medial  rays,  resulting  in  poor  foot  function .  101 

33  Use  of  skin  of  toes  2-4  to  resurface  plantar  area  over  metatarsal  heads .  .  103 

34  Transection  of  origins  of  abductor  and  flexor  digitorum  brevis  muscles .  .  104 

35  Willem’s  technique  of  active  joint  motion  in  the  presence  of  open 

wounds  applied  to  the  elbow . 108-09 

36  Treatment  of  infection  following  penetrating  injuries  of  the  knee 

without  significant  fractures . . . 116-17 

37  Saggital  diagram  of  a  knee  in  partial  flexion,  showing  spaces  that 

sequester  effusion  and  purulent  material .  120 

38  Arthrodesis  of  the  shoulder  without  humeral  head .  128 

39  Continuous  distal  skin  traction  in  open  amputations .  135 

40  Severe  mid-tarsal  gunshot  wound  converted  to  Chopart  following 

debridement .  140 

41  Temporary  plaster  blow-knee  prosthesis .  141 

42  Use  of  elastomer  foam  insert,  allowing  early  prosthetic  training .  145 

43  Bent-knee  pylon,  allowing  early  ambulation .  147 

44  X-ray  evaluation  to  allow  improved  prosthesis  fabrication .  149 

45  Method  of  managing  painful  neuroma  in  continuity  and  causalgia  ....  162-63 


XVI 


Figure  Page 

46  Surgical  scar  following  surgical  sympathectomy .  164 

47  Epineurial  repair  by  freeing  and  transposing  the  ulnar  nerve .  168 

48  Fascicular  bundle  nerve  grafts  of  ulnar  nerve .  170 

49  Extensor  indicis  proprius  transfer .  172 

50  Tendon  transfer  of  long  or  ring  flexor  digitorum  superficialis .  173 

51  Application  of  von  Frey  monofilament  to  a  digit .  179 

52  Transfer  of  double  neurovascular  cutaneous  island  from  ring-little 

web  space  to  thumb-index  web  space . . .  181 

53  Amputee  ski  program,  Arapahoe  Basin,  Colorado .  199 

54  Three-track  skiers .  200 

55  Bilateral  above-knee  amputee  skier  with  “stubby”  prostheses .  202 

56  Bilateral  above-knee  amputee  with  improvised  swim  fins .  204 

57  Triple  amputee  in  riding  saddle .  205 

58  Amputees  at  a  gallop .  206 


Tables 


Number 

1  Mechanism  of  injury  of  300  patients  with  fractured  femurs .  28 

2  Location  and  type  of  femoral  fracture .  28 

3  Amputations  during  first  hospitalization  for  midfoot  metatarsal  injury, 

Fitzsimons  General  Hospital,  1966-70  .  98 

4  Amputations  or  revisions  at  subsequent  hospitalization  for  midfoot  or 

metatarsal  injury,  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital,  1966-70  .  100 

5  Results  after  first  hospitalization,  open  injuries  of  the  foot, 

Brooke  Army  Medical  Center,  1966-69  .  100 

6  Final  disposition  of  patients  with  knee  wounds .  115 

7  Influence  of  intra-articular  fractures  on  final  results .  115 

8  Interval  between  injury  and  spontaneous  recovery  in  gunshot  wounds.  .  157 

9  Time  scale  in  months  for  spontaneous  recovery  in  gunshot  wounds.  .  .  .  158 

10  Summary  of  upper  extermity  nerve  injuries  at  Brooke  Army 

Medical  Center .  158 

1 1  Causalgia:  Nerves  involved  (1966-70)  during  Vietnam  War .  159 

12  Causalgia:  Time  of  onset  of  symptoms  (1969-70)  during  Vietnam  War.  .  159 

13  Causalgia:  Causative  agent  (1966-78)  during  Vietnam  War .  160 

14  Causalgia:  Results  of  treatment  (1966-70)  during  Vietnam  War .  160 

15  Vietnam  neurorrhaphy  related  to  etiology  and  level  of  injury .  166 

16  Vietnam  neurorrhaphy  secondary  suture — specific  nerves .  167 

17  Vietnam  cases  with  external  neurolysis .  169 

18  Autogenous  grafts  of  major  nerves — Vietnam  War .  170 

19  Early  tendon  transfers  as  internal  splints .  174 

20  Median  nerve  palsy .  174 

21  Radial  nerve  palsy .  175 

22  Ulnar  nerve  palsy .  175 

23  Combined  low  median-low  ulnar  palsy .  176 

24  Combined  high  median-high  ulnar  palsy .  177 

25  Combined  high  median-radial  palsy .  177 

26  Combined  high  ulnar-radial  palsy .  178 


1 


The  Soldier  and  His  Wound  in  Vietnam 

Colonel  John  A.  Feagin,  Jr.,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 

The  soldier  cannot  be  separated  from  his  wound.  Nor  could  the  soldier  and  his 
wound  be  separated  from  the  milieu  of  the  Republic  of  Vietnam,  where  medical  of¬ 
ficers  caring  for  the  combat  casualty  met  both  expected  and  unexpected  difficulties. 
All  those  responsible  for  the  wounded  faced  the  challenges  that  resulted  when  the 
world  of  modern  medicine,  modern  methods  of  evacuation,  and  modern  weaponry 
encountered  the  paddies,  jungles,  and  microorganisms  of  an  ancient  and  tropical 
land.  This  chapter  reflects  specifically  those  experiences  shared  by  Army  surgeons 
at  the  85th  Evacuation  Hospital  between  1966  and  1968. 

THE  MILIEU 

The  Republic  of  Vietnam  is  a  country  halfway  around  the  globe  from  the  conti¬ 
nental  United  States  (CONUS)  between  the  latitudes  of  9  to  16  degrees  north  of  the 
equator.  The  terrain,  ranging  from  rice  paddies  to  beautiful  narrow  valleys,  pre¬ 
sented  geographic  and  climatic  conditions  that  complicated  the  work  of  the  surgeon. 
Heat  and  humidity  were  factors.  Endemic  conditions  of  filth  and  disease  frequently 
intruded  upon  basic  care  of  injuries.  Soldiers  were  wounded  along  waterways  where 
human  and  animal  excreta  were  common.  Fevers  of  unknown  origin  invaded  the 
health  of  our  troops.  Even  postoperative  fevers  demanded  a  malaria  smear  for  dif¬ 
ferential  diagnosis. 

A  majority  of  casualties  resulted  from  patrol  actions,  search  and  destroy  mis¬ 
sions,  and  helicopter  assault  missions  that  took  place  in  areas  inaccessible  to  land- 
based  motorized  vehicles.  The  medical  service  system  in  Vietnam  worked  well,  for 
the  incoming  casualties  as  well  as  for  timely  evacuation.  From  the  orthopedist's 
view,  the  helicopter  made  many  things  possible  (fig.  1).  Since  many  missions  took 
place  in  daylight,  the  casualty  was  usually  received  within  the  “golden”  six-hour  pe¬ 
riod  after  injury,  often  within  less  than  thirty  minutes.  He  had  been  well  bandaged 
and  splinted,  the  ride  had  been  smooth,  and  preliminary  diagnoses  might  well  have 
been  radioed  ahead.  If  an  overload  had  developed,  the  flight  plan  might  have  been 
changed  and  the  patient  diverted  to  another  facility  with  equal  capability,  usually 
within  easy  flight  radius.  Marines  sometimes  appeared  unannounced,  however, 
since  they  often  did  not  have  meshing  communications. 

The  hospital  was  well  prepared  to  receive  the  casualty,  beginning  with  the  heli¬ 
pad,  which  was  as  much  a  part  of  the  facility  as  the  surgical  suite.  The  receiving  area 
where  the  patient  was  resuscitated  had  intravenous  hangers  and  litter  racks.  Radio¬ 
logical  facilities  were  comparable  to  departments  in  CONUS,  and  surgical  suites 
were  well  equipped.  Gas  machines  with  nitrous  oxide,  oxygen,  and  halothane  were 
standard.  Jet  lavage,  which  might  have  been  beneficial,  was  not  consistently  avail- 


2 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  1. — The  MedEvac  “Huey”  helicopter. 

able,  but  irrigation  during  debridement  was  copious.  The  facilities  had  good  floor 
drainage,  and  the  postoperative  area,  although  unsophisticated,  was  adequate.  Res¬ 
piratory  ventilation  units  were  not  standard  and  usually  were  not  available;  if  a  light, 
simple,  reliable  unit  had  been  developed,  it  would  have  proven  valuable.  Air  condi¬ 
tioning,  desirable  because  of  the  heat  and  humidity,  was  usually  available  in  the  sur¬ 
gical  suites  and  postoperative  areas.  Patients  who  could  leave  the  recovery  area  were 
sent  to  nursing  units  that  consisted  of  forty-bed  quonset  huts  with  concrete  floors. 

Evacuation  after  definitive  surgical  treatment  took  place  after  an  average  four-day 
stay  in  the  postoperative  unit,  nursing  unit,  or  both,  although  the  holding  policy  at  our 
evacuation  hospital  was  thirty  days.  The  fixed  wing  flights  that  usually  handled  evacu¬ 
ation  took  off  from  an  immediately  adjacent  field  and  were  closely  coordinated  with 
two  departures  per  week  for  Clark  Field,  the  U.S.  Air  Force  base  in  the  Philippines. 
Liaison  with  the  Air  Force  was  excellent,  and  the  facilities  and  surgical  expertise  avail¬ 
able  at  Clark  inspired  confidence.  Evacuation  was  discouraged  if  the  casualty  was 
febrile,  in  undue  pain,  clinically  unstable,  or  unable  to  tolerate  the  decrease  in  p02  that 
would  occur  in  flight.  Sometimes  attendants  were  sent  with  the  casualty  if  tubes  were 
to  be  managed  or  if  liaison  with  Clark  was  appropriate.  Patients  were  reevaluated, 
treated,  and  then  flown  on  to  Japan  or  CONUS  for  further  convalescence. 

Most  hospitals  were  at  Table  of  Organization  and  Equipment  (TO&E)  strength, 
and  the  nursing  staff  of  both  recovery  room  and  wards  was  excellent.  Orthopedic 
surgeons  generally  felt,  however,  that  their  specialty  was  inadequately  represented 


THE  SOLDIER  AND  HIS  WOUND  IN  VIETNAM 


3 


in  relation  to  the  number  and  type  of  combat-wounded  soldiers  and  that  the  TO&E 
was  out  of  date.  The  supporting  staff  of  specialists,  nurses,  and  enlisted  technicians 
was  usually  well  qualified  and  dedicated  to  the  mission.  Teams  became  close-knit  as 
confidence  and  loyalties  grew.  Stateside  surgical  standards  were  our  standards.  The 
draftees,  whether  physicians  or  enlisted,  earned  the  respect  of  all. 

The  medical  service  and  the  quality  and  extent  of  care  given  in  the  battle  area  in 
Vietnam  received  the  unstinting  praise  of  Maj.  Gen.  Spurgeon  Neel,  the  command 
surgeon  (1973,  57).  Outstanding  initial  care,  rapid  evacuation,  well-established  for¬ 
ward  hospitals,  readily  available  whole  blood,  current  surgical  techniques,  and  top- 
notch  medical  management  minimized  contamination  and  morbidity  of  potentially 
lethal  wounds  (Neel,  1973,  49). 

CARE  OF  THE  WOUNDED  SOLDIER 

The  American  soldier  was  reasonably  well  conditioned  and  acclimated  for  the 
tasks  in  Vietnam.  The  intermittent  nature  of  the  combat  and  his  frequent  resorts  to 
the  Post  Exchange  and  A-rations  probably  helped  maintain  his  nutritional  status. 
Nevertheless,  he  was  chronically  dehydrated.  Renal  colic,  even  among  young  sol¬ 
diers,  was  a  common  manifestation  of  the  dehydration.  Diarrhea  was  the  scourge  of 
all.  Fevers  of  unknown  origin  were  common,  but  the  “sick”  soldier  was  rarely  com¬ 
mitted  to  combat.  Thus  the  typical  wounded  soldier  was  a  healthy  young  American 
with  approximately  17  percent  body  fat  and  reasonable  cardiovascular  fitness,  heat 
acclimated,  and  10  percent  dehydrated. 

When  the  soldier  was  wounded,  corpsmen  on  site  rendered  the  first  treatment: 
splinting  limbs,  bandaging  other  injured  parts,  and  starting  intravenous  fluid  infu¬ 
sion  and  transfusion  of  O-positive  blood.  Fourteen  percent  of  the  blood  transfused 
in  Vietnam  was  given  at  forward  aid  stations  (Heaton  et  al.  1966).  Corpsmen  also 
summoned  “Dust  Off,”  the  code  name  for  medical  evacuation  throughout  the  com¬ 
mand  (fig.  2).  Morphine  was  not  as  necessary  as  it  had  been  in  previous  conflicts, 
probably  because  of  the  smooth  and  rapid  evacuation.  Field  tags  described  the  care 
at  the  initial  treatment  site.  Splinting  devices,  such  as  wireladder  splints  or  air 
splints,  were  adequate  when  combined  with  traditional  field  dressings.  The  MAST 
pressure  suit  was  sometimes  available  but  seldom  used.  Frequently,  the  patient  was 
taken  to  a  definitive  surgical  facility,  bypassing  the  battalion  surgeon.  Triage  did  not 
assume  the  importance  it  had  in  past  conflicts  because  of  limited  engagements,  the 
prompt  availability  of  the  helicopter,  the  efficiency  of  the  medical  regulating  officer, 
and  the  communications  accessible  to  him. 

Resuscitation  was  empiric  and  swift.  Ringers  lactate,  2000  cc.,  with  four  ampules  of 
sodium  bicarbonate,  and  10  million  units  of  penicillin  were  routine  while  type-specific 
blood  was  prepared.  An  indwelling  urinary  catheter  was  inserted.  Within  twenty-four 
hours  after  arrival  at  the  definitive  treatment  facility,  the  wounded  soldier  received 
tetanus  boosters  and  two  to  four  units  of  type-specific  blood.  Intracatheter  needles 
were  inserted  for  prompt  restoration  of  fluid  through  two  or  three  portals.  The  patient 
usually  had  a  systolic  blood  pressure  of  100-mm.  Hg  and  a  pulse  less  than  100  beats  per 
minute.  After  the  patient  had  had  roentgenograms  in  the  radiology  department,  he 
was  moved  to  the  operating  room.  Following  the  debridement  and  other  surgical  pro- 


4 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  2. — Prompt  evacuation  increased  the  wounded  soldier’s  chances  of  survival. 

cedures  necessary  to  care  for  his  wounds,  he  remained  in  the  recovery  area,  where  the 
vital  signs  were  carefully  monitored  and  replacement  fluid  therapy  was  continued. 
Critically  wounded  patients  usually  had  indwelling  urinary  catheters.  Monitoring  the 
output  volume  helped  to  determine  the  adequacy  of  fluid  replacement  and  to  steer  re- 
suscitative  efforts.  The  air  conditioning  of  the  surgical  and  postoperative  suites  helped 
minimize  further  fluid  loss  of  the  already  dehydrated  soldiers  and  undoubtedly  con¬ 
tributed  to  decreasing  morbidity  and  mortality  rates.  After  he  reached  a  stable  condi¬ 
tion,  the  patient  was  transferred  to  one  of  the  hospital’s  nursing  units. 

Surgeons  caring  for  the  soldier  immediately  after  wounding  had  to  be  alert  to  his 
metabolic  status,  which  reflected  a  complex  process  still  not  completely  understood 
though  better  appreciated  because  of  the  studies  of  the  United  States  Army  Surgical 
Research  Team  (Heisterkamp  1970).  This  research,  a  testimony  to  the  Surgeon  Gen¬ 
eral's  concern  and  insight,  has  stood  the  test  of  time,  and  the  principles  that  evolved 
from  it  are  now  applied  by  surgeons  in  every  major  trauma  center.  Those  portions  of 
the  report  that  proved  particularly  valuable  to  the  orthopedic  surgeons  in  Vietnam 
in  the  management  of  the  wounded  soldier  are  summarized  under  such  topics  as 
treating  respiratory  insufficiency,  arterial  hypoxemia  after  wounding,  blood  vol¬ 
umes,  serum  enzymes  in  combat  casualties,  and  hypoxemia  during  convalescence. 

Respiratory  insufficiency  in  combat  casualties  and,  subsequently,  severe  pul¬ 
monary  disease  were  present  in  95  percent  of  casualties  who  were  resuscitated  but  sub¬ 
sequently  died.  Lung  weight  was  the  single  most  objective  indication  of  pulmonary  dis- 


THE  SOLDIER  AND  HIS  WOUND  IN  VIETNAM 


5 


ease  in  the  casualty  at  autopsy.  Although  fat  studies  were  not  performed  routinely,  fat 
embolism  was  recorded  in  only  four  of  100  autopsy  reports.  The  incidence  of  severe 
pulmonary  disease  as  found  in  combat  casualties  at  autopsy  has  not  changed  in  twenty- 
five  years.  Most  patients  died  with  “wet  lung.”  Data  support  the  suggestion  that  the 
lung  represents  a  particularly  vulnerable  target  organ  for  a  variety  of  pathologic  stim¬ 
uli.  Pulmonary  edema  can  be  rapid  and  pernicious.  (Heisterkamp  1970, 26-35.) 

Thirty  percent  of  all  wounded  soldiers  and  17  percent  of  those  with  wounds  in 
the  extremities  were  hypoxemic  (p02  less  than  80-mm.  Hg)  on  admission.  Oxygen, 
administered  by  mask,  was  beneficial.  Failure  of  tissue  oxygenation  was  a  central 
feature  of  the  shock  syndrome  in  combat  casualties.  Yet  cyanosis  was  never  de¬ 
tected  in  the  anemic,  vascularly  constricted,  often  muddy  casualty.  Shock  and  acido¬ 
sis  aggravated  arterial  hypoxemia  and  facilitated  fat  embolism.  Microembolic  phe¬ 
nomena  were  suspect  (Heisterkamp  1970,  36-59). 

During  induction  of  anesthesia,  patients  in  hemorrhagic  shock  exhibited  bipha- 
sic  shifts  in  serum  sodium  concentrations.  Using  succinylcholine  during  induction  of 
anesthesia  to  the  combat  casualty  in  hemorrhagic  shock  may  be  lethal.  The  signifi¬ 
cantly  wounded  soldier  already  has  a  red  blood  cell  deficit  that  leads  to  a  decrease 
in  red  blood  cell  mass  and  red  blood  cell  survival  (Heisterkamp  1970, 159-98). 

The  effects  of  massive  transfusion  in  the  acutely  wounded  soldier  were  observed 
closely.  In  the  wounded,  platelets  are  rapidly  decreased.  Operative  bleeding,  in  sig¬ 
nificant  loss  of  volume,  was  not  encountered.  Prolonged  shock  rather  than  transfu¬ 
sion,  per  se,  seemed  to  trigger  disseminated  intravascular  coagulopathy  (DIC). 
Most  patients  who  died  had  coagulopathies.  Episodic,  nonlethal  DIC  probably  oc¬ 
curs  during  recovery  from  severe  trauma  and  shock  as  reflected  by  abnormalities  of 
prothrombin  and  partial  thromboplastin  time  in  thrombocytopenia  and  fibrinolysis 
(Heisterkamp  1970, 1 1 1—48). 

Serum  enzymes,  lactic  dehydrogenase  (LDH)  and  serum  glutamic  oxalacetic 
transminase  (SGOT)  levels  were  elevated  in  more  than  79  percent  of  the  combat 
casualties  at  twenty-four  hours.  Blast  injuries  of  the  foot  and  abdomen  were  associ¬ 
ated  with  increased  LDH  activity;  blood  transfusions  increased  SGOT  levels. 
Serum  glutamic  pyruvic  transminase  (SGPT)  is  a  direct  indicator  of  cellular  necro¬ 
sis  and  rises  late.  Enzyme  elevations  suggested  that  the  degree  of  tissue  damage, 
metabolic  alterations,  or  both  were  greater  than  may  have  been  obvious  at  the 
wound  site.  The  SGOT  level  may  be  the  most  sensitive  measure  of  soft  tissue 
trauma  (Sleeman  et  al.  1969;  Heisterkamp  1970, 1-8). 

Oxygen  tension  was  significantly  lower  in  the  recovery  room  period  and  recov¬ 
ery  of  oxygen  tension  was  often  delayed  until  the  fourth  postoperative  day.  Nasal 
oxygen  favorably  affected  the  degree  and  duration  of  hypoxemia.  Central  venous 
pressure  was  often  normal  despite  acute  pulmonary  edema.  Posttraumatic  pul¬ 
monary  edema  appears  to  be  a  disease  of  multiple  etiologies.  Factors  of  prolonged 
shock,  massive  transfusion,  blast  injury,  and  fracture  seem  to  play  major  roles  in  this 
pathogenesis  (Heisterkamp  1970,  49-96). 

Although  we  tried  to  estimate  convalescence  time,  we  could  not  generalize 
about  the  average  period  that  would  be  needed  because  of  the  many  complications 
that  could  occur  following  wounding  and  because  of  the  many  types  of  wounds.  A 
patient  who  had  had  a  laparotomy  might  be  ready  for  duty  in  forty-five  to  sixty 


6 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


days,  while  one  with  a  gunshot  wound  that  had  fractured  the  femur  usually  required 
more  than  one  year  of  convalescence  and  rehabilitation. 

Rehabilitation  was  an  important  part  of  the  wounded  soldier's  convalescence. 
He  benefited  both  physically  and  psychologically  from  the  efforts  of  the  physical 
therapists  who  entered  the  combat  zone  in  1967.  They  provided  invaluable  assis¬ 
tance  to  the  orthopedic  surgeon  by  improving  the  supervision  of  the  patients'  iso¬ 
metric  exercises,  efforts  to  increase  the  early  range  of  motion  of  the  joints,  pul¬ 
monary  ventilation,  and  early  ambulation  of  some  amputees.  Postoperative  goals 
could  be  established  and  implemented  before  the  patient  was  evacuated. 

The  proposal  made  in  late  1967  that  patients  be  evacuated  directly  from  Viet¬ 
nam  to  hospitals  in  CONUS  for  convalescence  and  rehabilitation  was  subsequently 
discouraged  because  the  casualties  arrived  too  fatigued  and  too  dehydrated  from 
the  strenuous  and  lengthy  flight.  The  break  at  Clark  AFB  proved  effective  for  rest 
and  reevaluation.  Approximately  20  percent  of  the  casualties  going  through  Clark 
were  given  further  surgical  therapy  because  of  fever,  pain,  or  suspicion  of  wound 
complication  before  being  sent  to  hospitals  in  Japan  or  CONUS. 

CARE  OF  THE  SOLDIER  S  WOUND 

Although  the  circumstances  under  which  they  worked  were  quite  different  from 
those  of  military  surgeons  of  earlier  conflicts,  surgeons  treating  wounds  in  Vietnam 
owed  much  to  their  predecessors.  Debridement  in  the  modern  sense  was  first  used 
in  the  late  eighteenth  century  by  Pierre  Joseph  Desault,  who  taught  the  technique 
to  his  students,  among  them  Napoleon’s  great  surgeon,  Jean  Dominique  Larrey.  In 
the  late  nineteenth  century,  Louis  X.  E.  L.  Ollier  introduced  immobilization  of  the 
limb  in  a  plaster  cast  in  the  belief  that  absolute  rest  was  conducive  to  healing.  Dur¬ 
ing  World  War  I,  American  surgeon  H.  Winnett  Orr  introduced  immobilization  of 
the  limb  as  part  of  the  treatment  program  for  extremities  afflicted  with  osteomyeli¬ 
tis.  The  Orr  method  was  not  simply  immobilization  in  the  correct  position  and  then 
infrequent  dressings  with  a  Vaseline  pack,  but  included  all  the  essentials  of  surgical 
care,  including  adequate  primary  drainage,  protection  of  wound  against  secondary 
infection,  and  good  patient  care  (Trueta  1943,  31-33,  37). 

Just  before  the  outbreak  of  World  War  II,  J.  Trueta  (1943,  39^42)  modified  Orr  s 
fundamental  principles.  “If,  therefore  . . .  the  protection  of  the  wound  by  plaster  cast 
can  arrest  an  infection  already  in  progress,”  Trueta  commented,  “surely  it  must  have 
even  a  better  chance  of  success  if  applied  before  the  infective  process  has  begun.” 
He  reduced  the  amount  of  gauze  used  for  drainage,  discarded  Orr’s  use  of  Vaseline, 
and  eventually  substituted  a  very  fine  mesh  gauze.  When  he  published  an  account  of 
his  work  in  1938,  he  noted,  “When  surgeons  have  a  good  knowledge  of  all  the  details 
of  the  technique  and  when  the  organization  is  such  that  they  can  deal  with  a  steady 
stream  of  cases  instead  of  sudden  overwhelming  numbers,  results  should  be  as  con¬ 
sistently  good  as  is  possible  within  the  limitations  of  human  endeavor.”  Trueta’s 
book  is  a  definitive  work  and  essential  reading  for  the  student  of  trauma  surgery,  but 
trauma  surgeons  should  also  be  acquainted  with  the  contents  of  the  Surgeon  Gen¬ 
eral's  volumes  on  the  history  of  orthopedic  surgery  in  World  War  II  (1956,  1957,  and 
1962)  and  the  NATO  Emergency  War  Surgery  Handbook  (1975). 


THE  SOLDIER  AND  HIS  WOUND  IN  VIETNAM 


7 


In  the  Vietnam  conflict,  however,  high-velocity  missiles  produced  greater  tissue 
destruction  than  any  weapon  used  in  this  or  other  wars.  (Rich  et  al.  1967).  The  time- 
honored  formula  used  to  calculate  kinetic  energy,  MV2/2,  does  not  completely  re¬ 
flect  the  massive  additional  damage  that  might  be  done  by  bullets  that  yaw  or  disin¬ 
tegrate.  Further,  the  formula  does  not  reflect  the  effect  of  cavitation  and  secondary 
missiles  (shattered  bone)  or  the  possibility  of  fractures  and  neurovascular  injuries  in 
bodily  areas  not  in  direct  contact  with  the  wounding  agent.  The  wound  caused  by  the 
high-velocity  missile  acquires  explosive  characteristics  in  itself  because  the  kinetic 
energy  of  the  wounding  agent  exceeds  the  elastic  limits  of  the  tissues  (fig.  3). 


Figure  3. — A  high-velocity  gunshot 
wound  of  the  humerus. 


Multiple  wounds  were  more  common  in  Vietnam  than  in  previous  conflicts  be¬ 
cause  of  the  high  velocity  of  lightweight  rounds,  the  rapid  fire  at  close  range,  and  the 
extensive  use  of  mines  and  booby  traps.  These  wounds  were  dirtier  than  in  any  previ¬ 
ous  conflict;  a  tremendous  amount  of  dirt,  debris,  and  secondary  missiles  were  hurled 
into  the  wound  during  the  prolonged  cavitation  phase.  Massive  contamination  chal¬ 
lenged  the  surgeon  to  choose  between  radical  excision  of  potentially  salvageable  tissue 
and  a  more  conservative  approach  that  might  leave  a  source  of  infection  (Neel  1973). 

The  effectiveness  of  medical  treatment  for  the  wounded  can  be  determined 
from  the  ratio  of  deaths  to  deaths  plus  surviving  wounded.  For  World  War  II,  the 
ratio  was  29.3  percent;  for  Korea,  26.3  percent;  and  for  Vietnam,  19  percent.  The 
ratio  of  killed  in  action  to  wounded  in  action  was  1  to  3.1  in  World  War  II;  1  to  4.1  in 
Korea;  and  1  to  5.6  in  Vietnam.  Sixty-five  percent  of  wounds  in  Vietnam  were 
caused  by  fragments,  but  51  percent  of  the  deaths  were  caused  by  small  arms  as 
compared  with  only  32  percent  in  World  War  II  and  Korea.  More  than  54  percent  of 
the  wounds  sustained  by  soldiers  in  the  Army  of  the  Republic  of  Vietnam  weie  ex- 


8 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


tremity  wounds.  Approximately  42  percent  of  Americans  wounded  in  Vietnam  re¬ 
turned  to  duty  (Neel  1973,  51-52). 

Among  wounds  encountered  by  orthopedists  in  Vietnam  were  those  that  were 
self-inflicted,  usually  involving  the  second  toe  of  the  left  foot.  Because  of  the  close 
range,  in  these  instances,  M16  wounds  were  perforating  but  not  particularly  devas¬ 
tating,  probably  because  the  bullet  had  not  begun  to  yaw  and  entrance  and  exit 
wounds  were  quite  equal.  Approximately  50  percent  of  these  soldiers  could  be  re¬ 
turned  to  duty  in  the  theater  after  appropriate  debridement  and  delayed  primary 
closure.  Orthopedists  saw  only  occasional  self-inflicted  hand  wounds.  Since  these 
were  more  severe  than  the  foot  wounds,  the  patient  was  usually  evacuated. 

Regardless  of  how  the  wound  was  inflicted,  surgery  was  usually  carried  out  by  or 
under  the  direction  of  specialists.  Many  new  lessons  had  to  be  learned  and  old 
lessons  relearned  because  of  the  high-velocity  missiles.  We  learned  to  visualize  each 
wound  as  a  compartment  and  to  appreciate  that  each  of  the  structures  within  the 
compartment  had  a  different  tolerance  or  compliance  and  a  different  response  to  the 
wounding  agent.  Skin  has  a  high  degree  of  elasticity  and  a  generous  blood  supply. 
Fascia  served  only  to  constrict.  Bone  shatters  like  fine  china,  and  yet  nerves  and  ar¬ 
teries  accept  the  shock  reasonably  well.  Occasionally,  though,  an  intact  vascular  or 
neural  tube  disguises  intimal  or  fascicular  damage  within  its  confines.  Decompres¬ 
sion  and  drainage  in  high-velocity  wounds  can  be  obtained  only  when  incisions  are 
carefully  planned  and  encompass  almost  the  length  of  the  involved  segment.  No  bet¬ 
ter  guideline  for  debridement  exists  than  the  poem  of  Sir  James  Learmonth:  “Of  the 
edge  of  the  skin /take  a  piece  very  thin /the  tighter  the  fascia /the  more  you  should 
slash’er/of  muscle  much  more  /till  you  see  fresh  gore /and  bundles  contract /at  the 
least  impact /leave  intact  the  bone  /except  bits  quite  alone.” 

In  primary  wound  care,  the  debridement  procedure  augmented  with  intra¬ 
venous  antibiotics  and  copious  lavage  was  effective.  We  gave  special  attention  to 
opening  the  fascia  and  the  compartment  of  both  the  upper  and  lower  extremities 
when  they  were  penetrated  by  high-velocity  missiles.  Amputation  was  not  done  in 
stylized  fashion  but  rather  was  performed  to  retain  the  maximum  amount  of  skin 
and  length.  Vascular  injuries  with  associated  fractures  were  best  handled  by  a  team. 
Fasciotomy  was  always  accomplished  if  the  disruption  of  the  flow  was  greater  than 
six  hours.  Tourniquets  were  always  in  place  and  were  used  for  the  hand  and  foot 
but  were  seldom  used  for  the  leg  or  thigh.  Tissues  were  not  shifted  during  the  initial 
surgery.  Kirschner  wires  were  sometimes  used  as  spacers  during  the  primary  de¬ 
bridement.  Because  of  increased  cavitation  from  the  high-velocity  missiles,  more 
extensive  compartment  decompression  relief  was  needed.  This  was  particularly  true 
in  the  upper  extremities  where  the  lacertus  fibrosis  and  carpal  tunnel  bound  their 
respective  segments.  In  the  lower  extremity,  the  fascia  required  incision.  After 
surgery,  bulky  air  occlusive  dressings  were  applied  to  decrease  the  chances  of  sec¬ 
ondary  contamination  and  gram-negative  septicemia.  Sugar  tong  splints  were  occa¬ 
sionally  used  in  preference  to  circular  bandages.  At  the  85th  Evacuation  Hospital, 
the  cast  table  was  an  outdated  World  War  II  model,  but  a  crude  spica  could  be  ap¬ 
plied  when  one  had  assistance. 

Physical  therapy  was  initiated  before  evacuation  to  promote  well-being,  retain 
joint  motion  when  feasible,  and/or  alleviate  psychological  stress.  Skin  traction  on 
amputee  stumps  was  routine.  A  self-contained  system  was  used  for  air  evacuation. 


THE  SOLDIER  AND  HIS  WOUND  IN  VIETNAM 


9 


If  we  suspected  that  debridement  had  not  been  adequate  or  that  infection  had  de¬ 
veloped.  we  promptly  performed  another  debridement  procedure.  Patients  with 
temperatures  greater  than  100.5  degrees  F  (38.2  degrees  C)  were  not  evacuated  but 
were  returned  to  surgery.  A  compromised  compartment  or  area  of  undue  tissue 
tension  usually  explained  the  fever  or  pain. 

Secondary  wound  care,  which  included  the  management  of  wound  closure, 
wound  breakdown,  wound  infection,  stabilization  of  long  bone  defects,  and  similar 
problems,  was  not  ordinarily  handled  in  Vietnam.  Although  reexploration  for  surgi¬ 
cal  complications  indicated  by  fever,  pain,  excessive  drainage,  or  vascular  compro¬ 
mise  was  encouraged  whenever  and  wherever  they  appeared,  most  secondary 
wound  care  took  place  after  the  patient  was  evacuated  to  the  106th  General  Hospi¬ 
tal,  in  Yokohama,  Japan;  the  U.S.  Air  Force  Hospital  at  Clark  AFB;  Tripler  Army 
Medical  Center  in  Hawaii;  or  CONUS. 

Little  has  been  written  on  secondary  wound  management,  perhaps  because  of  an 
assumption  that  surgeons  have  little  trouble  knowing  when  and  how  to  proceed. 
Such,  however,  is  not  the  case.  Certainly,  delayed  primary  closure  is  one  of  the  most 
valuable  methods  of  wound  care.  Indication  for  closure,  ideally  accomplished  within 
seven  days  after  injury,  is  a  clean  appearance  of  the  wound.  But  the  fact  that  high-ve¬ 
locity  missiles  caused  larger  defects  and  potential  “dead  spaces”  complicated  the  sur¬ 
geon's  decisions.  Thus  the  adequately  debrided  wound  overlying  a  fracture  frequently 
presented  a  challenge  to  the  surgeon  performing  the  delayed  primary  closure.  Many 
of  the  wounds  sustained  in  Vietnam  could  not  simply  be  closed  by  reapproximation 
of  skin  edges.  Tension  was  too  great,  and  the  underlying  “dead  space”  offered  a  fa¬ 
vorable  milieu  for  bacterial  growth.  Every  conceivable  type  of  suture  and  plastic  tech¬ 
nique  was  applied  to  the  problem:  near-far  or  far-near  sutures,  subcuticular  sutures, 
adhesive  bandages,  relaxing  incisions,  muscle  slides,  and  grafts  of  all  natures  were 
tried.  None  was  universally  successful.  Too  often  the  volume  deficit  was  too  large  to 
be  overcome.  The  solution  to  this  problem  was  found  in  the  techniques  of  Trueta. 
who  recommended  “adequate  debridement,  augmented  by  plaster  retention  of  the 
tissues,  and  await  the  passage  of  time.  Bacterial  flora  is  self-adjusting,  granulation  tis¬ 
sue  abounds,  and  wound  contracture  'miraculously'  closes  the  deficit”  (1943, 35). 

Implicit  in  the  guidelines  of  the  NATO  Handbook  (1958)  is  a  common  under¬ 
standing  of  the  criteria  of  a  “clean  appearance  of  the  wound.”  This  determination 
must  be  based  on  studies  of  bacteriologic  findings  so  that  decisions  can  be  made  on 
a  more  scientific  basis.  Periodically,  such  studies  have  been  done  (Marshall  et  al. 
1976),  but  Trueta  (1943,  54)  seems  to  have  been  the  first  serious  student  of  wound 
flora  in  battle  casualties.  Certainly,  he  was  the  first  surgeon  to  study  the  effect  of  oc¬ 
clusive  plaster  in-depth. 

In  the  early  years  of  the  conflict  in  Vietnam,  surgeons  initiated  delayed  primary 
closure  with  relish  and  fervor.  Ultimately  however,  most  orthopedic  surgeons  came 
to  the  realization  that  not  all  wounds  over  fractures  could  be  closed.  The  break¬ 
down  rate  over  fractured  femurs,  for  example,  was  in  excess  of  50  percent.  The 
breakdown  seemed  to  be  based  more  on  the  size  of  the  deficit  than  on  the  wound 
flora,  although  gram-negative  contamination  must  be  suspect  because  broad-spec¬ 
trum  antibiotics  encouraged  overgrowth  of  these  organisms.  As  a  result,  surgeons 
came  to  place  greater  reliance  on  either  the  occlusive  dressing  technique  for  the 
lower  leg  or  grafting  for  the  leg,  hand,  forearm,  and  arm.  The  mesh  graft  made  its 


10 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


appearance  during  the  Vietnam  conflict,  gaining  immediate  acceptance  and  popu¬ 
larity.  Thus,  a  broader  therapeutic  range  seemed  acceptable  to  the  surgeon  of  the 
Vietnam  era.  Primary  wound  drainage  was  usually  obtained  by  an  incision  of  ade¬ 
quate  length  and  the  accompanying  fasciotomy.  Counter  incisions  were  not  usually 
recommended.  Suction  drainage  was  frequently  used  beneath  the  flap  of  the  wound 
closed  by  delayed  primary  suture  and  seemed  effective  (Trueta  1943,  35).  Penrose 
drains  were  again  condemned  either  for  primarily  or  secondarily  closed  extremity 
wounds  (CINCPAC-1  1967).  Packing  wounds  with  gauze  often  interfered  with  free 
drainage  and  was  therefore  also  discouraged. 

WOUND  INFECTION  AND  ANTIBIOTICS 

To  prevent  impending  wound  infection  as  well  as  treat  it  when  it  was  already  es¬ 
tablished,  antibiotic  therapy  was  an  important  supportive  measure.  Although  much 
has  been  published  about  antibiotics  in  the  civilian  literature,  such  is  not  the  case  in 
military  literature.  Penicillin  arrived  without  much  of  a  literary  stir  in  World  War  II. 
Senior  surgeons  apparently  realized  that  the  quality  of  wound  care,  not  the  antibi¬ 
otics,  would  determine  the  end  result.  Only  Hampton  (1957)  seemed  to  develop 
new  therapeutic  regimens  based  on  the  protection  of  antibiotic  coverage.  He  also 
advocated  delayed  primary  internal  fixation  of  fractures,  but  the  experience  is  still 
not  conclusive  on  this  technique.  We  really  do  not  know  whether  antibiotics  will 
allow  early  reparative  fracture  surgery. 

Before  the  spring  of  1944,  sulfanilamide  drugs  were  used  by  our  forces  in  the 
care  of  war  wounds.  In  mid-1944,  when  penicillin  became  available  generally,  it  was 
used  in  an  effort  to  provide  a  wider  margin  of  safety  for  the  aggressive  surgical  pro¬ 
cedure  (Hampton,  1957).  Blood  replacement  and  antibiotic  therapy  were  consid¬ 
ered  merely  adjunctive  measures  to  protect  living  tissue  against  invasive  infection 
(Hampton  1957).  In  the  European  Theater  of  Operations,  American  soldiers  were 
provided  with  sulfanilamide  pills  and  sulfa  crystals  in  their  first  aid  kits  almost  until 
the  end  of  the  war.  They  were  instructed  to  take  the  pills  as  soon  as  they  were 
wounded  and  to  sprinkle  the  crystals  into  the  wounds.  It  was  also  rather  a  general 
policy  to  spread  sulfa  crystals  into  the  wound  at  surgical  closure.  Both  of  these  prac¬ 
tices  were  eventually  abandoned  (Cleveland  1956). 

Sulfanilamide  and  penicillin  helped  broaden  the  scope  of  surgery,  but  surgeons 
using  them  emphasized  their  protective  rather  than  their  prophylactic  or  curative 
aspects.  Unfortunately,  antibiotics  gave  surgeons  a  feeling  of  confidence  in  delayed 
primary  closure  of  wounds  (Cleveland  1956).  Cleveland  reported  that  in  World  War 
II,  osteomyelitis  subsequent  to  open  long  bone  fractures  occurred  in  5.4  percent  of 
2,152  wounds  in  the  European  theater.  There  is  no  proof,  however,  that  the  inci¬ 
dence  of  serious  wound  infections  in  his  series  was  substantially  reduced  by  the  use 
of  either  sulfonamides  or  penicillin.  The  remarkable  freedom  from  infection  that 
was  enjoyed  during  World  War  II  should  be  attributed  chiefly  to  adequate  debride¬ 
ment  plus  the  liberal  use  of  whole  blood  to  replace  blood  rather  than  to  the  use  of 
the  new  agents  (Cleveland  1956). 

During  the  Korean  War,  a  broad  spectrum  of  antibiotics  was  available,  but  no 
new  techniques  were  introduced  or  policies  established.  Battle  casualties  in  Korea 


THE  SOLDIER  AND  HIS  WOUND  IN  VIETNAM 


11 


suffered  less  wound  infection  than  casualties  in  previous  wars.  Clostridial  organ¬ 
isms  were  present  in  approximately  46  percent  of  wounds  at  the  time  of  debride¬ 
ment.  The  beneficial  and  protective  effects  of  antibiotics  in  minimizing  Clostridial 
infection  (Artz  et  al.  1956)  suggested  that  antibiotic  therapy  might  influence  both 
aerobic  and  anaerobic  flora. 

Records  to  substantiate  all  observations  on  orthopedic  wound  infection  in  the 
Vietnam  War  do  not  exist,  since  few  longitudinal  studies  have  been  conducted  that 
could  accurately  document  them.  The  incidence  of  chronic  osteomyelitis  following 
the  Vietnam  conflict  is  not  known,  but  two  reliable  articles  (Brown  and  Urban 
1969;  Freeland  and  Mutz  1976)  reflect  successful  spontaneous  closure  of  infected 
long  bone  nonunions  by  debridement,  ambulation,  and  weightbearing  plaster  aug¬ 
mented  by  posterior  bone  graft.  Nonunion  and  chronic  osteomyelitis  concerned  us, 
but  such  problems  were  usually  resolved  between  eighteen  and  twenty-four  months 
following  wounding  (Brown  and  Urban  1969). 

The  experience  gained  with  leaving  joint  and  hand  wounds  open  reduced  infec¬ 
tion  to  an  all  time  low  in  anatomic  areas  where  it  had  historically  been  common  and 
disastrous.  The  classic  article  by  Burkhalter  et  al.  (1968)  indicated  an  infection  rate 
of  2.2  percent.  A  long-term  report  on  open  joint  wounds  does  not  exist,  although 
Davis  (1970)  stated  his  optimism  about  the  prognosis  of  the  patients.  Infection  was 
inevitable  in  hip  joint  wounds  associated  with  intra-abdominal  wounds.  A  team  ap¬ 
proach  was  lifesaving.  Drainage  of  the  joint  must  be  accompanied  by  appropriate 
general  surgical  care  of  the  visceral  injury  that  also  had  drainage  and  diversion 
(CINCPAC-1  1967).  These  potentially  lethal  wounds  must  be  recognized  early. 

Wound  infection  in  amputation  stumps  has  been  well  documented  (Keblish  et  al. 
1970).  Stumps  were  often  edematous  and  infected,  and  by  the  time  they  were  exam¬ 
ined  after  the  patients  were  evacuated  from  Vietnam,  their  skin  edges  had  retracted. 
Skin  traction  had  been  frequently  ignored,  interrupted,  or  ineffectively  applied  en 
route.  At  Valley  Forge  General  Hospital,  Pennsylvania,  the  orthopedic  team  initi¬ 
ated  a  dynamic  program  of  early  ambulation  in  spite  of  open  stump  wounds. 

By  the  time  of  the  Vietnam  War,  orthopedic  surgeons  recognized  that  none  of  the 
antibiotics  were  substitutes  for  adequate  surgery.  They  were  the  beneficiaries  of 
World  War  II  and  Korean  experiences  as  well  as  of  the  guidelines  stated  in  the  NATO 
Emergency  War  Surgery  Handbook  (1958).  The  handbook  noted  that  “antibiotic 
therapy  is  an  important  supportive  measure  which  is  employed  for  the  prevention  of 
impending  infection  or  the  treatment  of  established  infection,  but  its  role  is  limited  in 
these  objectives.  It  is  not  a  primary  therapeutic  measure.”  Topical  antibiotics  had  not 
grown  in  favor  since  their  dispensation  in  World  War  II,  except  when  used  for  burns. 
An  in-depth  study  by  Noyes  et  al.  (1967)  reflected  the  historical  perspective  as  well  as 
a  clinical  trial  of  Sulfamylon.  They  reported  that  neither  the  qualitative  nor  the  quan¬ 
titative  bacterial  flora  of  patients  treated  with  Sulfamylon  changed  when  compared 
with  the  flora  of  untreated  wounds.  Furthermore,  none  of  the  antimicrobial  regimens 
tested  prevented  proliferation  ol  Pseudomonas  species. 

Little  mention  was  made  of  antibiotics  in  discussions  of  the  military  surgical  prac¬ 
tices  of  the  U.S.  Army,  Vietnam  (USARV).  After  a  consultant  visit  to  Japan  and 
Southeast  Asia  in  November  1966,  Col.  Robert  M.  Hall,  MC,  Orthopedic  Consultant 
to  the  USARV  Surgeon,  failed  to  mention  antibiotics  or  to  make  specific  recommen¬ 
dations  for  their  use  (Hall  1966).  Moreover,  command  guidance  was  limited  concern- 


12 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


ing  the  use  of  new  broad-spectrum  antibiotics,  the  selection  of  appropriate  agents  to 
counter  gram-negative  overgrowth  and  resistant  strains,  and  the  adverse  effects,  such 
as  nephrotoxicity  and  ototoxicity,  induced  by  antibiotics.  Heaton  et  al.  (1966),  how¬ 
ever,  commented  on  the  use  of  antibiotics  in  joint  wounds,  noting  that  “antibiotic  pro¬ 
tection  is  mandatory  as  pyarthrosis  is  a  great  danger  in  these  large  avascular  tissues.” 

No  orthopedic  recommendations  about  antibiotics  were  made  at  the  first  Com¬ 
mander  in  Chief,  Pacific  (CINCPAC),  Surgical  Conference  (20-25  May  1967).  The 
consensus  of  the  attendees  was  that  joint  wounds  must  be  covered  by  antibiotics,  al¬ 
though  in  the  fresh,  well-debrided  extremity  wound,  antibiotics  were  not  indicated. 
The  conference  coordinator  did,  however,  recommend  comparing  various  antibi¬ 
otic  regimens  in  addition  to  the  penicillin-streptomycin  combinations,  indicating  a 
change  from  the  old  penicillin-streptomycin  regimen,  particularly  with  heavier  cov¬ 
erage  against  gram-negative  organisms  (Artz  et  al.  1956). 

By  the  time  of  the  fourth  CINCPAC  Surgical  Conference  (16-19  February 
1970),  we  were  already  aware  that  antibiotics  such  as  kanamycin,  neomycin,  strep¬ 
tomycin,  and  polymixin  B  caused  respiratory  depression  or  apnea  in  our  patients 
when  used  as  lavage  in  body  cavities.  Toxic  complications  associated  with  antibi¬ 
otics  had  been  brought  to  our  attention  by  Col.  T.  J.  Whelan,  MC,  (1968)  in  a  letter 
circulated  from  Tripler  Army  Medical  Center  to  the  Vietnam  theater  in  1968. 

The  fourth  CINCPAC  conference  recommended  prophylactic  antibiotics  and 
penicillin  in  large  doses.  Surgeons  could  use  broad-spectrum  antibiotics  at  their  discre¬ 
tion.  but  they  were  cautioned  that  wound  cultures  and  recultures  should  guide  subse¬ 
quent  antibiotic  use.  This  conference  also  addressed  antibiotics  and  sepsis,  noting: 

Infections  have  been  frequent  sequelae  of  wounds  throughout  the  history  of 
military  medicine.  Adequate  debridement,  immunization,  and  antibiotics  have  sig¬ 
nificantly  reduced  the  incidence  of  wound  complications  such  as  gangrene,  tetanus, 
and  streptococcal  cellulitis.  However,  massive  infection  in  wounds  created  by 
weapons  of  modern  warfare  (e.g.,  high  velocity  missiles)  and  primitive  warfare 
(e.g.,  punji  sticks)  remains  a  major  problem  at  all  levels  of  medical  care,  in-country, 
off-shore,  and  in  CONUS  facilities. 

Among  the  antibiotics  used  in  Vietnam,  the  most  common  were  penicillin  and 
streptomycin,  but  both  were  ineffective  against  microorganisms  in  more  than  50 
percent  of  the  wounds  of  patients  evacuated  from  Vietnam.  All  microorganisms 
cultured  were  sensitive  to  Mandelamine.  The  success  of  penicillin  in  vivo  seemed  to 
be  dose-dependent.  Our  experience  showed  that  it  should  be  administered  fre¬ 
quently  with  perhaps  as  much  as  20  million  units  of  penicillin,  continuous  intra¬ 
venous  drip,  given  for  twenty-four  hours  (Matsumoto  1968). 

The  operating  surgeon  should  have  knowledge  of  the  type  or  extent  of  wound  con¬ 
tamination  in  order  to  select  the  appropriate  antibiotic,  but  operating  surgeons  and  the 
supporting  laboratory  rarely  have  time  to  make  adequate  bacteriologic  determina¬ 
tions  while  they  are  caring  for  wounded  patients.  Such  information  should  come  from 
a  research  team.  A  beginning  was  made  by  the  Walter  Reed  Army  Institute  of  Re¬ 
search  (WRAIR)  team  (Matsumoto  1968).  Nevertheless,  although  broad-spectrum 
antibiotics  were  available  late  in  the  Vietnam  conflict  and  antibiotics  were  an  impor¬ 
tant  adjunct  in  the  care  of  Vietnam  wounded,  they  neither  mitigated  nor  modified  the 
basic  concepts  of  war  surgery  in  the  thirty-five  years  since  their  introduction. 


THE  SOLDIER  AND  HIS  WOUND  IN  VIETNAM 


13 


Wound  infection  must  be  considered  not  only  as  a  response  of  soft  tissue  and 
bone  to  wounding  but  also  as  a  response  to  environment  and  contaminating  factors 
introduced  in  the  geographic  area.  Thus,  in  the  management  of  wounds  and  in  the 
selection  of  antibiotics,  quantitative  microbiology  proved  to  be  a  reliable  and  valu¬ 
able  diagnostic  aid  that  had  considerable  influence  on  surgical  decisions.  In  patients 
with  fewer  than  105  bacteria  per  gram  of  tissue,  most  wounds  healed  without  a 
wound  infection.  In  those  patients  demonstrating  greater  than  105  organisms  per 
gram  of  tissue,  infection  was  usually  present.  A  team  developed  a  rapid  quantita¬ 
tion  technique  for  determining  the  magnitude  of  wound  contamination  that  will  be 
considered  for  secondary  wound  management  in  future  conflicts  (Marshall  et  al. 
1976).  The  serious  student  must  review  the  works  of  G.  T.  Rodeheaver,  Ph.D.  (Uni¬ 
versity  of  Virginia,  Medical  Center,  Charlottesville,  Virginia),  who  has  applied 
quantitative  microbiologic  determinations  to  civilian  wounds. 

Wound  studies  in  Korea  revealed  a  large  percentage  containing  pathogenic  aer¬ 
obes  and  anaerobes  (Lindberg  1955).  In  a  group  of  175  positive  cultures  from  112 
wounds,  13  species  of  bacteria  were  identified  ( Artz  et  al.  1956).  Forty  percent  were 
contaminated  by  Clostridia  species,  which  were  sensitive  to  various  antibiotics 
(Heggers  et  al.  1969).  The  most  frequently  identified  bacteria  were  Staphylococcus 
aureus ,  Aerobacter  aerogenes ,  Pseudomonas ,  and  Proteus.  The  Surgical  Research 
Team  (Artz  et  al.  1956)  pointed  out  that  if  routine  antibiotics  are  to  be  used,  peni¬ 
cillin  is  not  the  drug  of  choice. 

The  most  common  microorganisms  found  in  the  Vietnam  combat  casualties  sus¬ 
pected  of  causing  morbidity  and  mortality  were  Staphylococcus  aureus  (29.2  percent), 
Pseudomonas  aeruginosa  (18.3  percent),  and  Escherichia  coli  (17.3  percent)  (Mat- 
sumoto  1968).  Blood  cultures  from  sixty-five  cadavers  revealed  nineteen  positive  cul¬ 
tures.  The  most  common  organisms  in  this  instance  were  Pseudomonas  aeruginosa 
and  Klebsiella  pneumoniae.  The  team  found  no  anaerobic  microorganisms  and  con¬ 
cluded  that  the  debridement  in  this  study  was  adequate.  Although  all  surgeons  were 
concerned  with  gram-negative  overgrowth  and  emergence  of  resistant  strains,  little 
objective  data  have  been  found  to  substantiate  the  perceived  problem. 

Serratia  marcescens  was  a  striking  finding  in  blood  cultures  in  Vietnam.  Since  it 
is  an  airborne  organism,  surgeons,  aware  of  possible  virulence,  demanded  frequent 
blood  cultures  and  meticulous  respiratory  care  of  wounded  patients  on  assisted 
ventilation.  The  medical  and  surgical  staffs  pooled  their  expertise  in  the  effort  to 
prevent  and  manage  sepsis  induced  by  Serratia  marcescens.  It  became  clear  to  both 
internists  and  surgeons  that  attention  to  good  infection  control  practice  was  of 
prime  importance  from  the  outset  in  the  hospital  environment  at  combat  support 
facilities.  This  principle  was  even  more  important  when  these  hospitals  began  to 
serve  as  fixed  installations  in  support  of  an  active  combat  role.  Since  effective  bac- 
teriologic  analysis  was  critical  to  medical  support  of  combat  operations,  plans  to 
provide  it  had  to  be  made  early  in  the  course  of  planning  for  the  establishment  of  a 
relatively  fixed  hospital.  Although  this  approach  reflected  the  view  of  military  in¬ 
ternists  and  surgeons  in  Vietnam,  medical  officers  in  CONUS  also  employed  it 
when  caring  for  patients  with  melioidosis  (Buchman  et  al.  1973). 

Extrapulmonary  melioidosis,  a  disease  manifesting  itself  as  an  orthopedic  prob¬ 
lem.  had  received  little  attention  until  the  French  and  then  the  Americans  were  ex¬ 
posed  to  the  soil  and  rice  paddies  of  Southeast  Asia  (Buchman  et  al.  1973).  It  was  a 


14 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


THE  SOLDIER  AND  HIS  WOUND  IN  VIETNAM 


15 


Figure  4  -In  an  attempt  to  control  dust,  heat,  humidity,  and  the  mosquito,  facilities 
for  patient  care  were  improved  from  tents,  to  Quonset  huts,  to  inflatable  hospitals. 


16 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


gram-negative  infection  with  an  extrapulmonary  form.  The  laboratory  had  to  be  alert 
for  Pseudomonas  pseudomallei,  and  the  surgeon  had  to  be  aware  of  the  possibility  of 
infection  by  this  organism.  Since  1966,  at  Valley  Forge  General  Hospital,  seventy-one 
patients  have  been  treated  for  melioidosis  with  no  fatalities.  Sixteen  of  the  patients 
with  melioidosis  as  an  extrapulmonary  disease  were  the  subject  of  a  report  by  Buch- 
man  et  al.  (1973).  Prolonged  antibiotic  therapy  with  tetracycline  was  essential. 

Another  unusual  manifestation  of  bacteriologic  organisms  was  seen  in  immer¬ 
sion  foot.  Combat  soldiers  experienced  epidemics  of  distinctive  warm-water  skin  in¬ 
jury  called  “paddy  foot,”  a  variant  of  warm-water  immersion  foot.  The  immersion 
foot  is  caused  by  interaction  of  several  factors:  principally,  changes  brought  about  in 
the  resistance  of  the  skin  to  infection  because  of  long  exposure  to  contaminated 
water;  damage  to  the  skin  generated  by  wearing  boots  and  socks;  presence  of  etio- 
logic  organisms  in  the  water  and  the  environment;  and  increased  temperature  of 
the  tropical  environment.  Akers  (1974a  and  1974b)  has  reported  on  the  natural  his¬ 
tory,  epidemiology,  and  field  experiments  of  paddy  foot. 

The  key  to  dealing  with  immersion  foot  was  prevention.  Rest,  elevation,  and 
therapeutic  use  of  antibiotics  were  essential  to  the  treatment.  The  jungle  boot 
seemed  to  be  relatively  effective  in  drying  itself  and  protecting  the  bottom  of  the 
foot  from  minor  penetrating  blows,  but  it  did  not  provide  much  ankle  or  foot  sup¬ 
port.  Callosities  and  immersion  foot  sometimes  required  evacuation  to  in-country 
convalescent  hospital  facilities,  but  out-of-country  evacuation  was  seldom  neces¬ 
sary.  Most  soldiers  returned  to  their  units  after  five  to  seven  days  of  treatment. 

Gas  gangrene  and  tetanus  were  almost  nonexistent  in  Americans  wounded  in 
Vietnam.  The  rarity  of  clinical  gangrene  in  these  patients  cannot  be  explained  entirely 
on  the  basis  of  rapid  evacuation,  early  debridement,  or  timely  antimicrobial  therapy 
(Noyes  et  al.  1967).  The  rarity  of  gas  gangrene  is  even  more  surprising  in  view  of  the 
extensive  arterial  repairs  that  were  attempted.  I  did  not  see  or  hear  of  a  case  of 
tetanus  in  an  American  casualty  in  Vietnam,  but  we  routinely  gave  0.5  cc.  tetanus  tox¬ 
oid  boosters  to  each  patient  admitted  to  the  primary  treatment  facility.  Certainly  war 
wounds  without  concomitant  complications  of  these  two  ill  harbingers  represented 
surgical  progress.  Both  tetanus  and  gas  gangrene  were  seen  in  the  Viet  Cong  casualty, 
who  frequently  arrived  moribund  and  tetanic.  These  patients  were  extremely  toxic; 
pulse  was  usually  greater  than  140  per  minute.  Even  the  most  heroic  measures  sel¬ 
dom  saved  a  limb  or  life.  Occasionally,  with  intensive  and  dedicated  supportive  mea¬ 
sures,  we  were  successful  in  treating  a  Viet  Cong  casualty  with  tetanus  (Brown  1974). 

MEDCAP  ACTIVITIES 

Wounded  soldiers  constituted  the  principal  concern  of  Army  orthopedic  sur¬ 
geons  in  Vietnam,  but  Vietnamese  civilians  also  benefited  from  the  presence  of 
U.S.  medical  officers  in  their  country  and  the  assistance  rendered  through  Medical 
Civic  Action  Program  (MEDCAP)  activities.  Although  little  mention  is  made  of 
specialty  MEDCAP  care,  the  reconstructive  bent  of  the  orthopedic  surgeon  is  such 
that  considerable  specialty  care  took  place  at  all  levels  (fig.  4).  Reconstructive  pro¬ 
cedures  for  poliomyelitis,  leprosy,  congenital  deformities,  and  civilian  war  wounds 
were  undertaken,  when  feasible,  at  almost  every  hospital  with  an  orthopedic  sur- 


THE  SOLDIER  AND  HIS  WOUND  IN  VIETNAM 


17 


geon.  This  type  of  care,  which  Vietnamese  surgeons  usually  looked  on  as  interest¬ 
ing  but  complex  and  impractical  under  the  wartime  circumstances,  would  not  other¬ 
wise  have  been  available  and  was  gratifying  to  both  patient  and  surgeon.  It  was  re¬ 
grettable  that,  because  of  limited  communications,  reconstructive  techniques  could 
not  be  shared  with  Vietnamese  surgeons. 

As  a  rule,  continuity  of  MEDCAP  care  was  nearly  impossible.  The  most  notable 
exception  was  at  Qui  Hoa  Leprosarium,  five  miles  from  Qui  Nhon,  to  which  MED¬ 
CAP  orthopedists  went  regularly  every  week  from  1966  to  1971.  American  physi¬ 
cians  performed  surgical  procedures,  including  limited  amputation,  posterior  tibial 
tendon  transfers,  reconstructive  hand  surgery,  neurolysis,  and  transfers  of  the  ulnar 
and  peroneal  nerves  (White  and  Feagin  1972).  The  regularity  and  dependability  of 
such  visits  throughout  this  period  resulted  in  a  much  higher  than  usual  standard  of 
medical  care  for  the  patients  with  leprosy  in  that  beautiful  valley  and  left  a  lasting 
mark  on  a  small  community  (White  and  Feagin  1972). 

The  situation — treating  the  soldier  wounded  in  Vietnam — presented  many  chal¬ 
lenges  to  the  orthopedic  surgeon.  The  heat,  the  humidity,  the  character  of  the  coun¬ 
tryside,  and  the  nature  of  the  wounding  agents  all  influenced  care  and  procedures. 
Helicopters  made  rapid  evacuation  and  prompt  treatment  possible  regardless  of 
terrain,  and  air  conditioning  facilitated  the  work  of  surgeons  in  the  operating  rooms 
of  the  hospitals  receiving  the  wounded.  Whole  blood  was  readily  available,  and  the 
orthopedic  personnel  and  supporting  staff  rendered  outstanding  initial  care.  As  a 
result,  contamination  and  the  morbidity  of  potentially  lethal  wounds  were  minimal. 
As  General  Neel  pointed  out  in  1973,  the  soldier  wounded  in  Vietnam  received  “a 
quality  of  care  superior  to  that  in  any  previous  conflict”  (1973,  58). 

REFERENCES 

Akers,  W.  A.  1974a.  Paddy  foot:  A  warm  water  immersion  foot  syndrome  variants. 

Part  I.  The  natural  disease,  epidemiology.  Military  Medicine  139:605-12. 

Akers,  W.  A.  1974b.  Paddy  foot:  A  warm  water  immersion  foot  syndrome  variant. 

Part  II.  Field  experiments,  correlation.  Military  Medicine  139:613-18. 

Artz,  C.  P.  1956.  Battle  casualties  in  Korea;  studies  of  the  Surgical  Research  Team. 
Volume  III.  The  battle  wound;  clinical  experiences.  Army  Medical  Service  Grad¬ 
uate  School.  Walter  Reed  Army  Medical  Center.  Washington:  GPO. 

Beyer,  J.  C.  1962.  Wound  ballistics  in  World  War  II.  Supplemented  by  experiences 
in  the  Korean  War.  Office  of  the  Surgeon  General,  Department  of  the  Army. 
Washington:  GPO. 

Brav,  E.  1962.  Traumatic  dislocation  of  hip.  Army  experience  and  results  over  a 
twelve-year  period.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  44-A:l  15-34. 

Brown,  P.  W„  and  Urban,  J.G.  1969.  Early  weightbearing  treatment  of  open  frac¬ 
tures  of  the  tibia.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  51-A:59-75. 

Brown,  P.  W.  1974.  Gas  gangrene  in  a  metropolitan  community.  Journal  of  Bone 
and  Joint  Surgery  56-AT445-51. 

Buchman,  R.  J.;  Kmiecik.  J.  E.;  and  LaNoue,  A.  M.  1973.  Extrapulmonary  melioi¬ 
dosis.  American  Journal  of  Surgery  125:324-27. 

Burkhalter,  W.  E.;  Butler,  B.;  Metz,  W.;  and  Omer,  G.  1968.  Experiences  with  de¬ 
layed  primary  closure  of  war  wounds  in  the  hand  in  Vietnam.  Journal  of  Bone 
and  Joint  Surgery  50A:945-54. 


18 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Cleveland,  M.  1956.  Orthopedic  surgery  in  the  European  Theater  of  Operations.  Of¬ 
fice  of  The  Surgeon  General,  Department  of  the  Army.  Washington:  GPO. 

CINCPAC-1.  1967.  Commander  in  Chief,  Pacific.  First  CINCPAC  Conference  on 
War  Surgery.  Tri-service  surgical  conference  conducted  at  John  Hay  Air  Base, 
Baguio,  the  Philippines,  20-25  May  1967.  Incl  with  cover  ltr,  J.S.  Cowan, 
RADM  USN,  CINCPAC  Medical  Officer,  12  Jul  1967. 

CINCPAC-4.  1970.  Commander  in  Chief,  Pacific.  Fourth  CINCPAC  Conference 
on  War  Surgery.  Tri-service  conference  conducted  in  Tokyo,  Japan,  16-19 
February  1970.  Incl  with  cover  ltr,  Frank  B.  Voris,  M.D.,  RADM  USN,  CINC¬ 
PAC  Surgeon,  2  Mar  1970. 

Davis,  G.  L.  1970.  Management  of  open  wounds  of  joints  during  Vietnam  War.  A 
preliminary  study.  Clinical  Orthopedics  68:3-9. 

NATO  Emergency  war  surgery  handbook.  1958.  Department  of  Defense.  Washing¬ 
ton:  GPO. 

NATO  Emergency  war  surgery  handbook.  1975.  1st  U.S.  revision.  Washington:  GPO. 

Feagin,  J.  A.  1967.  The  use  of  knee  joint  catheters  in  penetrating  wounds  of  the 
knee.  Interim  report  presented  at  the  Society  of  Military  Orthopedic  Surgeons. 
Denver,  Colorado:  Fitzsimons  Army  Medical  Center,  October  1967. 

Feagin,  J.  A.,  and  White,  A.  A.  1973.  Volkmann’s  ischemia  treated  by  transfibular 
fasciotomy.  Military  Medicine  138:497-99. 

Freeland,  A.  E.,  and  Mutz,  S.  B.  1976.  Posterior  bone-grating  for  infected  ununited 
fracture  of  the  tibia.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  58:653-57. 

Hall,  R.  M.  Letter,  16  Nov  1966,  AVCA-MB-GA-8FH  to  Surgeon,  U.S.  Army 
Vietnam,  APO  96307,  sub:  Orthopedic  consultants’  visit,  7-14  Nov  1966. 

Hampton,  O.  P.  1946.  Delayed  internal  fixation  of  compound  battle  fractures  in  the 
Mediterranean  Theater  of  Operations:  Follow-up  study  in  Zone  of  Interior.  An¬ 
nals  of  Surgery  123:238-75. 

Hampton,  O.  P„  Jr.  1957.  Orthopedic  surgery  in  the  Mediterranean  Theater  of  Oper¬ 
ations.  Mather  Cleveland,  ed.  Office  of  The  Surgeon  General,  Department  of 
the  Army.  Washington:  GPO. 

Heaton,  L.  D.:  Hughes,  C.  W.;  Rosegay,  H.;  Fisher,  G.  W.;  and  Feighny,  R.  E.  1966. 
Military  surgical  practices  of  the  United  States  Army  in  Vietnam.  A  mono¬ 
graph.  Current  problems  in  surgery.  Chicago:  Year  Book  Medical  Publishers, 
Inc.,  1966. 

Heggers,  J.  P.;  Barnes,  S.  T.;  Robson,  M.C.;  Ristroph,  J.  D.;  and  Omer,  G.  E.,  Jr. 
1969.  Microbial  flora  of  orthopedic  war  wounds.  Military  Medicine  134:602-03. 

Heisterkamp,  C.  A.  Ill,  comp,  and  ed.  1970.  Activities  of  the  US  Army  Surgical  Research 
Team ,  WRAIR — Vietnam  (tech  rpt,  17  Jun  1967  to  20  Jan  1968,  prepared  for  the 
U.S.  Army  Medical  Research  and  Development  Command).  Washington:  GPO. 

Henry,  A.  K.  Extensile  exposure.  2d  ed.  1962.  Edinburgh  and  London:  E.  W.  Living¬ 
stone.  (Books  by  the  same  author  and  with  the  same  title  have  been  published  by 
Williams  and  Wilkins,  in  Baltimore,  1957  and  Churchill  in  London,  1970). 

Keblish,  P.  A.;  LaNoue,  A.  M.;  and  Deffer,  P.  A.  1970.  Early  management  of  the 
lower  extremity  battle-incurred  amputee  at  Valley  Forge  General  Hospital 
(U.S. A.)  Reproduced  from  presentation.  Eastern  Orthopedic  Association 
Meeting,  November  1970,  pp.  87-91. 

Lindberg,  R.  B.;  Wetzler,  T.  F.;  Marshall,  J.  D.;  Newton,  A.;  Strawitz,  J.  G.;  and 
Howard,  J.  M.  1955.  Bacterial  flora  of  battle  wounds  at  the  time  of  primary  de¬ 
bridement.  Study  of  Korean  battle  casualty.  Annals  of  Surgery  141:369-74. 


THE  SOLDIER  AND  HIS  WOUND  IN  VIETNAM 


19 


Marshall,  K.  A.;  Edgerton,  M.  T.;  Rodeheaver,  G.  T.;  Magee,  C.  M.;  and  Edlich,  R. 
F.  1976.  Quantitative  microbiology.  Its  application  to  hand  injuries.  American 
Journal  of  Surgery  131:728-33. 

Matsumoto,  T.  1968.  Ltr,  USAMCJ-249-WRAIR  to  Maj  Gen  J.  M.  Blumberg,  com¬ 
manding,  U.S.  Army  Medical  Research  and  Development  Command,  27  Nov 
1968,  sub:  Progress  Report  (1  Sep-20  Nov)  of  the  WRAIR  Surgical  Team  (No.  3). 

Meroney,  W.  H.,  ed.  Battle  casualties  in  Korea:  studies  of  the  Surgical  Research 
Team,  volume  IV.  Post-traumatic  renal  insufficiency.  Washington:  GPO. 

Neel,  S.  1973.  Medical  support  of  U.S.  Army  in  Vietnam ,  1965-1970.  Washington:  GPO. 

Noyes,  H.  E.;  Nguyen,  H.  C.;  Lee,  T.  L.;  Duong,  H.  M.;  Punyashthiti,  K.;  and  Pugh, 
C.,  Jr.  1967.  Delayed  topical  antimicrobials  as  adjuncts  to  systemic  antibiotic 
therapy  of  war  wounds;  Bacteriologic  studies.  Military  Medicine  132:461-68. 

Rich,  N.  M.;  Johnson,  E.  V.;  and  Dimond,  F.  C.,  Jr.  1967.  Wounding  power  of  mis¬ 
siles  used  in  the  Republic  of  Vietnam.  Journal  of  the  American  Medical  Associa¬ 
tion  199:157,  160, 161, 168. 

Sleeman,  H.  K.;  Simmons,  R.  L.;  and  Heisterkamp,  C.  A.  1969.  Serum  enzymes  in 
combat  casualties.  Archives  of  Surgery  98:272-74. 

Treuta,  J.  1943.  The  principles  and  practice  of  war  surgery.  St.  Louis:  C.  V.  Mosby  Co. 

Whelan,  T.  J.,  Jr.  1968.  Ltr  to  Lt.  Col.  Clyde  N.  Herrick,  31  Jan  68,  sub:  A  Warning 
in  the  Use  of  Irrigation — Aspiration  Techniques  for  Topical  Neomycin,  Baci¬ 
tracin  and  Polymixin  B  Administration. 


2 


Penetrating  Injuries  of  the  Thigh 
With  Associated  Femoral  Fracture 

Colonel  William  E.  Burkhalter,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 

In  both  World  Wars,  a  battle-incurred  compound  fracture  of  the  femur  was  re¬ 
garded  as  one  of  the  most  serious  skeletal  injuries  a  soldier  could  sustain  (Hampton 
1957,  137).  In  World  War  I,  971  or  (25  percent)  of  the  3,850  soldiers  with  femoral  frac¬ 
tures  and  penetrating  wounds  of  the  thigh  died.  Fractures  of  the  femur  constituted  ap¬ 
proximately  24  percent  of  the  16,339  recorded  World  War  I  battlefield  fractures.  The 
mortality  figures  in  World  War  II  were  much  lower.  One  study  indicated  only  7.9  per¬ 
cent  of  all  deaths  were  attributed  to  compound  fractures  of  the  lower  extremity 
(Hampton  1957).  During  the  Vietnam  conflict  fractures  of  the  femur  continued  to  be 
one  of  the  most  costly  injuries  sustained  by  the  combat  soldier,  in  terms  of  the  length  of 
hospitalization  and  residual  functional  impairment.  Direct  comparisons  of  the  three 
conflicts  are  impossible  because  of  changes  in  categories  and  classification  systems. 

The  concepts  and  practices  for  treatment  of  combat  casualties  with  penetrating 
wounds  of  the  thigh  and  a  fractured  femur  changed  markedly  from  war  to  war.  Dur¬ 
ing  World  War  I,  splinting  rather  than  plaster  was  generally  emphasized,  in  order  to 
maximize  the  desired  freedom  of  joint  movement.  Infection  was  treated  by  local  ap¬ 
plications  of  such  agents  as  bismuth  subnitrate,  iodoform,  and  paraffin  (BIP)  or  by 
the  elaborate  irrigation  ritual  of  the  Carrel-Dakin  method.  Evaluation  of  the  results 
indicated  a  high  incidence  of  malunion,  nonunion,  and  infection,  as  well  as  exces¬ 
sively  high  rates  of  amputation  and  fatality.  After  the  war,  the  Carrel-Dakin  method 
fell  into  disuse  and  was  replaced  by  the  closed  plaster  technique,  usually  credited  to 
H.  Winett  Orr,  whereby  the  wound  was  left  open  to  allow  drainage  and  the  limb  was 
placed  in  a  plaster  cast  with  skeletal  fixation  of  the  fracture.  The  objective  of  this 
method  was  to  prevent  the  trauma  and  reinfection  that  was  so  prevalent  with  fre¬ 
quent  changes  of  dressings.  It  was  a  one-stage  program  for  management  of  the  com¬ 
bat-incurred  compound  fracture  of  the  femur  with  associated  soft  tissue  injuries.  The 
first  wartime  test  of  the  closed  plaster  technique  came  during  the  Spanish  Civil  War. 
Trueta,  as  cited  by  Hampton  (Hampton  1957,  53)  reported  excellent  results,  but 
United  States  surgeons  during  the  North  African  campaign  found  the  program  un¬ 
workable  (Hampton  1957,  55).  The  theoretical  benefits  of  the  technique  were 
negated  by  complications  caused  by  moving  patients  from  forward  to  rear  hospitals. 
Patients  became  febrile,  plaster  disintegrated  or  proved  ineffective,  circulatory  prob¬ 
lems  arose,  transfixion  pins  broke,  and  infection  set  in,  to  name  a  few.  By  early  1944, 
the  practice  had  been  largely  discontinued. 

With  the  failure  of  the  closed  plaster  technique.  Army  surgeons  in  the  Mediter¬ 
ranean  theater  turned  to  the  delayed  primary  closure  of  “clinically  clean”  wounds. 
The  bacteriological  culture  reports  that  had  been  relied  for  twenty-five  years  were 


22 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


abandoned  because  they  required  extensive  laboratory  assets  and  multiple  changes 
of  dressings.  The  first  step  in  compound  fracture  management  was  now  limited,  for 
the  most  part,  to  wound  exploration  and  debridement.  At  that  time,  care  of  the 
fractured  femur  was  limited  to  correction  of  gross  malposition  and  splinting  for 
transportation.  When  the  patient  was  in  a  fixed  hospital,  during  the  “golden  pe¬ 
riod”  for  fracture  management,  usually  four  to  seven  days  after  wounding,  he  un¬ 
derwent  a  second  surgical  procedure.  Performed  under  anesthesia,  it  involved  fur¬ 
ther  debridement  of  necrotic  tissue,  irrigation,  fracture  reduction,  delayed  primary 
closure,  drainage  conduits,  antibiotic  therapy,  traction,  splinting,  and  casting.  The 
patient  was  prepared  for  return  to  the  Zone  of  the  Interior. 

World  War  II  military  surgeons  who  treated  patients  with  penetrating  injuries  to 
the  thigh  accompanied  by  fractured  femurs  expected  prolonged  recumbency  with 
resultant  inanition,  muscle  atrophy,  and  fibrous  ankylosis  of  joints.  Their  reports 
(Brav  and  Fitts  1946;  DeLorme  et  al.  1950)  indicated  that  the  natural  history  of  the 
fracture  healing  required  twenty-four  weeks  before  the  patients  could  begin  ambu¬ 
lation.  Only  30  percent  of  these  patients  were  expected  to  have  ninety  degrees  or 
more  of  knee  flexion.  Soto-Hall  and  Horwitz  (1946)  reported  a  series  of  122  frac¬ 
tures  in  which  86  percent  of  the  fractures  united,  27  percent  remained  infected  with 
definite  evidence  of  osteomyelitis,  and  33  percent  had  limited  knee  extension.  Five 
percent  of  these  patients  refractured  the  femurs. 

PRACTICES  DURING  THE  VIETNAM  CONFLICT 

The  basic  principles  of  debridement,  delayed  primary  closure,  and  fracture 
management  did  not  change  dramatically  from  World  War  II  to  Vietnam.  Techno¬ 
logical  advances  and  the  availability  of  broad-spectrum  as  well  as  gram-negative 
and  gram-positive  specific  antibiotics  did  little  to  alter  the  criteria  and  priorities  for 
management  of  fractures  associated  with  penetrating  wounds  of  the  thigh. 

Femoral  shaft  fractures  secondary  to  penetrating  injury  posed  massive  probems  for 
combat  surgeons.  The  wound  took  precedence  over  the  fracture  at  the  initial  surgery. 
Following  initial  surgery,  the  limb  was  splinted  to  prevent  further  trauma  to  surround¬ 
ing  soft  tissue.  Only  after  absolute  wound  control  did  physicians  become  concerned 
about  reduction  of  the  fracture.  Fracture  of  the  femur  associated  with  severe  penetrat¬ 
ing  wounds  required  more  than  one  surgical  exploration  and  wound  debridement. 

Initial  treatment  at  the  hospital  began  with  resuscitative  measures  and  general 
examination  carried  out  in  the  triage  area.  Although  examination  of  the  wound  was 
not  done  in  the  triage  area,  a  search  was  made  for  an  exit  wound  (because  of  the 
possibility  of  an  intra-abdominal  course  of  the  bullet  with  associated  injuries  in  this 
area)  and  for  associated  vascular  or  nerve  injuries. 

With  the  limb  splinted  and  resuscitation  proceeding,  roentgenograms  were  ob¬ 
tained  in  two  planes.  Constant  monitoring  of  the  efficacy  of  resuscitation  and  obser¬ 
vations  for  signs  of  deterioration  continued.  If  the  patient  was  in  severe  difficulty,  he 
was  sent  immediately  to  the  operating  room.  If  he  was  not,  after  he  had  received  ad¬ 
equate  blood  replacement  and  his  vital  signs  had  been  stabilized,  he  was  sent  in 
order  of  triage-determined  priority.  Once  the  patient  was  in  the  operating  room,  the 
surgeon  and  his  team  removed  the  splint  and  placed  a  Steinmann  pin  through  the 


PENETRATING  INJURIES  OF  THE  THIGH 


23 


tibial  tubercle.  If  suspension  equipment  was  available  or  could  be  improvised,  the 
limb  was  suspended  by  the  pin  so  that  both  hip  and  knee  were  in  90  degrees  of  flex¬ 
ion.  This  allowed  traction  to  the  femoral  shaft  fracture  during  preparation  of  the 
limb,  draping  of  the  limb,  and  actual  surgery  of  exploration  and  debridement.  The 
traction  reduced  further  soft  tissue  injury  during  the  usual  manipulative  portion  of 
the  prepping,  draping,  and  debridement  of  the  thigh  wound  (fig.  5). 


Figure  5. — Elevation  such  as  this  al¬ 
lowed  circumferential  extremity  sur¬ 
gical  preparation  and,  in  case  of  as¬ 
sociated  femoral  fracture,  stabilized 
the  fracture  and  reduced  soft  tissue 
injury  during  surgical  preparation 
and  debridement. 


Since  excessive  bleeding  often  occurred  in  patients  with  partially  lacerated  ves¬ 
sels  when  clots  were  disturbed,  ready  access  to  the  common  femoral  artery  could 
prevent  considerable  blood  loss.  Therefore,  circumferential  prepping  and  prepping 
of  the  groin  were  necessary  for  care  of  the  wound  as  well  as  for  immediate  access  to 
the  common  femoral  artery  in  the  event  that  excessive  bleeding  occurred  during 
wound  exploration. 

Longitudinal  wound  extension  allowed  exploration  of  the  depths  of  the  wound 
and  required  considerable  knowledge  of  cross-sectional  anatomy.  Since  wound  de¬ 
bridement  was  time  consuming  and  resulted  in  considerable  blood  loss,  blood  for 
transfusions  had  to  be  available  if  surgeons  were  to  perform  optimal  surgical  explo¬ 
ration.  At  the  conclusion  of  exploration  and  debridement,  fine  mesh  gauze  was  ap¬ 
plied  directly  to  the  wound,  which  was  left  open. 


24 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  6. — The  Tobruk  splint  was  especially  good  for  patients  with  femoral  fractures 
and  associated  abdominal  injury.  About  30  degrees  of  knee  flexion  could  be  obtained 
in  the  device.  This  was  useful  in  distal  fractures.  Splint  was  applied  while  traction  was 
being  maintained  on  the  femoral  fracture.  Rubber  tubing  maintained  traction  with 
countertraction  being  maintained  by  the  ischial  ring,  which  was  well  padded.  The  pa¬ 
tient’s  lower  extremity  was  fixed,  ready  for  evacuation  if  necessary. 


PENETRATING  INJURIES  OF  THE  THIGH 


25 


Figure  7. — An  ipsilateral  femoral  and  tibial  fracture  with  a  contralateral  below-knee  am¬ 
putation  in  continuous  skin  traction.  In  such  cases,  bivalving  the  cast  before  evacuation  was 
indicated.  The  cast  should  end  at  the  top  of  the  iliac  crest  and  not  extend  onto  the  chest.  A 
spica  which  is  too  high  limits  respiratory  exchange  which  results  in  decreasing  pO:. 


26 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


The  decision  about  which  of  the  two  types  of  immobilization  should  be  used  de¬ 
pended  on  the  surgeon's  assessment  of  the  adequacy  of  the  debridement  and  pres¬ 
ence  of  associated  injuries,  the  flow  of  patients,  and  the  number  of  casualties.  If  the 
patient  was  not  scheduled  for  immediate  evacuation,  the  modified  Tobruk  splint  with 
a  half-ring  splint,  foot  extension,  and  slings  supported  the  extremity  (fig.  6).  The  pre¬ 
viously  placed  Steinmann  pin  and  bow  were  attached  distally  with  surgical  tubing  to 
the  foot  extension  on  the  half-ring  splint.  Dressing  or  plaster  of  Paris  bandages  were 
applied  directly  over  the  limb  and  leg  splint  for  greater  immobility.  For  early  evacua¬ 
tion  to  an  offshore  hospital  or  to  CONUS,  the  second  type  of  immobilization,  a  one 
and  one-half  spica,  was  applied  without  extension  onto  the  chest  and  without  exces¬ 
sive  abduction  of  the  legs  in  order  to  limit  mobility  of  the  fracture  during  air  evacua¬ 
tion.  The  two  portions  were  held  together  with  plaster  bandages  (fig.  7). 

If  signs  of  sepsis,  excessive  drainage,  or  excessive  pain  at  the  fracture  site  oc¬ 
curred  following  the  initial  wound  surgery,  the  patient  was  returned  to  the  operat¬ 
ing  room  for  reexamination  under  anesthesia.  In  the  highly  compartmentalized 
thigh,  more  than  a  single  operative  procedure  was  frequently  necessary  to  achieve  a 
surgically  clean  wound,  particularly  after  a  combat  injury  with  its  associated  pene¬ 
trating  foreign  bodies. 

No  attempt  was  made  to  perform  delayed  primary  closure  of  these  wounds  in 
hospitals  in  Vietnam  because  of  the  relatively  high  breakdown  rate  of  wounds  of 
the  thigh  treated  by  delayed  primary  closure.  No  closure  was  preferable  to  wound 
breakdown  following  premature  closure.  These  wounds  healed  better  by  secondary 
intention  or  later  wound  excision  and  closure.  This  was  true  even  for  those  patients 
who  could  not  be  evacuated  because  of  associated  vascular  injuries  or  wounds  to 
the  chest  or  abdomen. 

Vascular  injuries  which  caused  interruption  in  distal  blood  flow  were  the  most  se¬ 
rious  trauma  an  extremity  could  receive  because  failure  to  restore  distal  blood  flow 
quickly  would  lead  to  the  loss  of  the  limb  (Bagg  1967).  Treatment  began  with  imme¬ 
diate  action  to  control  bleeding,  followed  by  adequate  wound  debridement.  Vascular 
repair  to  restore  blood  flow  distally  had  to  be  accomplished  as  soon  as  possible  if  the 
extremity  was  to  survive.  Repair  of  vascular  injuries  received  priority  in  the  treat¬ 
ment  of  the  injured  extremity.  In  Vietnam,  both  the  equipment  and  surgical  skills 
were  available  to  repair  injuries  to  the  femoral  artery.  The  most  critical  factor  in  the 
success  or  failure  to  reinstitute  distal  blood  flow  was  the  interval  of  time  between  the 
injury  and  the  reestablishment  of  the  blood  flow.  The  major  cause  of  failure  of  the 
vascular  repair  was  low-grade  sepsis  secondary  to  poor  or  no  debridement. 

When  an  arterial  injury  was  associated  with  a  fractured  femur,  although  the  or¬ 
thopedic  surgeon  assisted  the  vascular  surgeon,  the  primary  concern  was  the  rapid 
restoration  of  distal  flow.  While  adequate  wound  debridement  was  absolutely  neces¬ 
sary,  fracture  management  could  be  delayed.  Internal  fixation  was  rarely  needed  and 
indeed  was  considered  contraindicated  because  of  the  time  required  (CINCPACM 
1970).  Soft  tissue  coverage  over  bone  or  fracture  site  at  the  time  of  initial  surgery 
was  not  necessary  in  most  injuries  of  the  thigh  but,  when  arterial  injury  was  involved, 
it  was  necessary  to  obtain  good  soft  tissue  coverage  over  the  vascular  repair. 

Patients  who  sustained  a  vascular  injury  and  repair  were  kept  in  Vietnam  for 
three  weeks  to  allow  time  for  the  vascular  repair  to  stabilize  before  the  trauma  of 
evacuation  unless  the  military  situation  precluded  this  course  of  action.  When  the 


PENETRATING  INJURIES  OF  THE  THIGH 


27 


patient  was  evacuated,  he  was  encased  in  a  spica  cast  that  was  usually  bivalved  so 
that  the  site  of  vascular  repair  and  a  point  of  proximal  control  of  arterial  bleeding 
were  both  readily  accessible. 

The  military  orthopedic  surgeon  had  to  keep  his  priorities  in  order,  especially  in 
the  combat  zone.  Reduction  and  fixation  of  the  fracture,  accomplished  as  expedi¬ 
tiously  as  possible,  were  performed  only  on  those  occasions  when  stabilization  was 
necessary  to  avoid  further  injury  to  soft  tissues  or  to  prevent  placing  the  vascular  re¬ 
pair  in  jeopardy.  In  these  situations,  transfixation  with  Steinmann  pins  was  usually 
satisfactory;  intramedullary  fixation  was  rarely  the  procedure  of  choice.  The  reduc¬ 
tion  of  bone  length  could  be  an  advantage  for  the  vascular  surgeon,  but  reduction 
and  fixation  of  the  femur  before  vascular  repair  were  usually  contraindicated.  The 
procedure  increased  the  time  between  injury  and  restoration  of  blood  flow,  the  time 
required  for  the  first  surgical  exposure,  and  the  time  the  surgeon  was  required  to  de¬ 
vote  to  the  individual  patient  when  numerous  casualties  were  awaiting  treatment, 
and,  in  addition,  added  to  the  risk  of  sepsis. 

After  initial  surgical  treatment,  the  patients  were  considered  for  evacuation.  Ad¬ 
equately  hydrated  patients  with  stable  vital  signs  and  acceptable  hematocrits  were 
ready  for  evacuation.  Most  patients  evacuated  to  offshore  hospitals  arrived  five  to 
eight  days  after  injury.  If  possible,  moving  the  patient  in  difficulty  was  delayed  until 
his  condition  was  as  close  to  optimal  as  possible. 

TREATMENT  IN  JAPAN 

During  1968,  1,658  patients  with  fractures  of  the  femur  passed  through  the  hos¬ 
pitals  of  the  United  States  Army  Medical  Command  in  Japan.  From  this  group,  an 
in-depth  review  of  300  cases  provides  a  picture  of  the  patient  from  wounding  to  ul¬ 
timate  disposition. 

All  of  the  patients  were  healthy,  young,  physically  fit  men  on  active  duty  in  Viet¬ 
nam  during  wartime.  The  cause  of  the  injury  to  the  thigh  ranged  from  hostile  action 
to  falls  (table  1).  Seventy-three  percent  of  the  soldiers  in  the  series  were  in  the  pay 
grades  E-l  to  E-4,  15  percent  were  noncommissioned  officers,  grades  E-5  to  E-9, 
and  12  percent  were  commissioned  or  warrant  officers. 

Thirty-one  medical  facilities  in  Vietnam  sent  patients  to  hospitals  in  Japan 
where,  after  several  weeks  of  treatment  (average  length  18.1  days),  they  were  sent  to 
forty-six  different  CONUS  medical  centers.  The  average  period  of  hospitalization 
before  return  to  duty  or  separation  from  active  duty  was  300  days.  Seventy  percent 
of  soldiers  with  combat-sustained  fractures  of  the  femur  were  not  able  to  return  to 
duty  and  required  medical  separation.  They  averaged  418  days  of  hospitalization 
from  time  of  injury  to  separation  and  required  nearly  one-half  million  patient  days 
of  care  (1,658  X  300  =  497,400).  Thus,  in  spite  of  technical  improvements,  the  com¬ 
bat-incurred  femoral  shaft  fracture  remained  a  fracture  with  significant  morbidity,  as 
evidenced  by  the  data  in  this  chapter. 

The  distribution  of  the  fractures  along  the  shaft  of  the  femur  shows  a  spread  of 
39  percent  midshaft;  37  percent  distal  third;  25  percent  proximal  third,  including  the 
intertrochanteric  area  and  femoral  neck;  and  3  percent  undetermined  (table  2). 


28 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Table  1. — Mechanism  of  injury  of 300  patients  with  fractured  femurs 


Mechanism 


Number  of  Patients 


Gunshot  wounds: 

Hostile  action .  119 

Friendly  forces  or  self-inflicted .  22 


Subtotal .  141 


Fragmentation  wounds: 

Land  mine  and  booby  trap .  43 

Grenade  fragments .  17 

Artillery  and  mortar  fragment .  18 

Not  specified .  25 


Subtotal .  103 


Other  mechanisms  (motor  vehicle,  aircraft  parachute  jump,  bunker  cave-in. 

Howitzer  recoil,  propeller  blade,  fall,  falling  object,  concussion) .  56 


Subtotal .  56 


Total .  300 


Table  2. — Location  and  type  of  femoral  fracture 


Region 


Percentage  of 

Open  Fractures  Closed  Fractures 


Total 


Hip  (femoral  neck  and  intertrochanteric) 

Proximal  femur . 

Midshaft . . 

Distal  femur . 

Cortex . 

Undetermined  site . 


9.3 

1. 

10.3 

14.7 

1. 

15.7 

22. 

8.7 

30.7 

28.3 

3.4 

31.7 

9. 

0 

9.0 

— 

— 

2.6 

The  34  percent  of  patients  who  incurred  fractured  femurs  secondary  to  frag¬ 
ment  wounds  had  the  highest  incidence  of  associated  organ  injuries.  Ten  patients  (3 
percent  of  the  survey  group)  eventually  required  amputation  of  the  extremity.  Six 
of  these  were  done  within  five  days  of  wounding  secondary  to  failure  to  restore  vas¬ 
cularity  of  the  extremity  after  a  concomitant  vascular  injury.  Three  amputations, 
performed  while  the  patients  were  hospitalized  in  Japan,  were  necessitated  by  non- 
viability  of  the  extremity  resulting  from  vascular  injury  and  massive  distal  infection. 
One  was  performed  in  a  CONUS  hospital  because  of  residual  causalgia,  chronic  in¬ 
fection,  and  marginal  blood  flow.  This  case  was  also  accompanied  by  a  sciatic  nerve 
injury.  Twenty-seven  cases  (9  percent)  sustained  ipsilateral  fractures  of  the  tibia. 

Patients  received  in  Japan  from  Vietnam  with  penetrating  injuries  of  the  thigh 
had  received  fairly  standard  treatment.  Surgeons  had  already  debrided  the  wound, 
removing  all  nonviable  tissue  and  fascia  without  debriding  the  bone.  The  wound 
had  been  thoroughly  irrigated  and  appropriate  open  drainage  established.  Exposed 
bone  was  allowed  to  remain  exposed.  Surgeons  in  Vietnam  did  not  do  swinging 
muscle  or  muscle  cutaneous  flaps  over  the  bone,  nor  did  they  repair  nerves. 


PENETRATING  INJURIES  OF  THE  THIGH 


29 


Some  patients  were  evacuated  to  Japan  in  Tobruk  splints,  some  with  modified 
Tobruk  splints  and  the  bivalved  spica.  Transportation  in  the  spica  had  the  potential 
of  lowering  the  patient's  p02  because  this  cast  limited  the  patient’s  ability  to  breathe. 
Upward  displacement  of  the  diaphragm  further  compromised  the  respiratory  capac¬ 
ity  because  expansion  of  intraviscal  gas  (resulting  from  the  increase  in  the  plane's  al¬ 
titude)  distended  the  abdomen.  The  adverse  effects  on  the  patient,  however,  proved 
transient.  Patients  usually  arrived  in  Japan  no  later  than  five  days  after  injury. 

During  the  early  war  years,  variations  in  treatment  occurred  from  hospital  to 
hospital  and  physician  to  physician  in  the  Pacific  Command.  Gradually,  a  standard 
method  of  treating  fractured  femurs  emerged.  If  the  patient  was  fairly  comfortable 
and  medically  stable,  he  rested  for  the  day  following  his  arrival  while  baseline  val¬ 
ues  were  established  and  he  was  sufficiently  rehydrated.  Then,  with  the  patient 
under  sedation  or  anesthesia  in  the  operating  room,  the  spica  case  was  removed 
and  further  debridement,  if  appropriate,  was  performed. 

Wound  breakdown  following  delayed  primary  closure  was  higher  in  wounds  of 
the  thigh  than  in  most  other  parts  of  the  body.  The  high  incidence  of  failure  for  de¬ 
layed  primary  closure  of  these  penetrating  wounds  of  the  thigh  associated  with  frac¬ 
tured  femurs  can  be  explained  by  several  factors.  The  wounding  agent  created  a  rel¬ 
atively  large  cavity,  in  which  necrosis  of  the  tissue  occurred.  When  debridement  of 
this  and  of  other  devitalized  tissue  was  performed,  the  debridement  created  a 
rather  large  permanent  cavity  that  was  often  inadequately  drained.  As  a  result,  the 
policy  on  the  management  of  these  wounds  gradually  changed  until  secondary  or 
delayed  primary  closure  became  the  exception  rather  than  the  rule.  Wounds  were 
allowed  to  heal  by  secondary  intention  or  by  wound  excision  and  closure  at  a  later 
date.  In  most  instances,  the  patient  treated  with  “no  closure"  had  the  extremity 
placed  in  balanced  suspension,  preferably  with  the  tibial  pin  for  traction,  until  the 
wound  was  healed.  Anterior  wounds  required  different  procedures  because  treat¬ 
ment  in  balanced  suspension  required  leaving  the  patient  in  a  supine  position. 
Drainage  by  counter  incision  posteriorly  proved  ineffective.  Debridement  created 
dead  space  and  longitudinal  traction  tended  to  maintain  it.  In  this  case,  when  the 
dead  space  could  not  be  obliterated,  no  closure  gave  better  results  than  delayed  pri¬ 
mary  or  secondary  closure. 

Once  the  fractured  femur  was  in  satisfactory  position  and  “sticky,”  a  spica  cast 
was  applied  and  the  patient  considered  for  air  evacuation  to  a  CONUS  hospital. 
Since  the  four  to  six  days  the  patient  might  be  in  transit  and  the  up  to  two  stopovers 
enroute,  each  requiring  transfer  from  the  airplane  to  a  medical  facility,  were  ex¬ 
hausting,  many  factors  had  to  be  considered  in  making  the  decision  to  evacuate.  In 
particular,  medical  personnel  had  to  consider  the  capability  of  the  patient  to  sustain 
so  many  days  in  transit  before  arrival  at  his  final  destination,  when  only  emergency 
medical  care  could  be  undertaken  en  route. 

In  the  majority  of  patients  reevaluated  in  CONUS,  removal  of  the  travel-spica 
cast  revealed  no  loss  in  bony  alignment.  Once  reinstituted,  balanced  suspension  suc¬ 
cessfully  held  the  alignment  of  the  femur  until  union  occurred.  Soft  tissues  usually 
healed  promptly.  In  those  cases  where  delayed  primary  closure  had  broken  down, 
the  wounds  were  allowed  to  heal  by  secondary  closure  after  a  simple  redebridement. 


30 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


TREATMENT  IN  CONUS— AMBULATION  IN  THE  CAST  BRACE 

In  the  early  years  of  the  Vietnam  War,  the  ambulation  treatment  regimen  for 
femoral  fractures  sustained  in  combat  was  similar  to  methods  of  treatment  during  the 
latter  part  of  World  War  II  and  the  Korean  conflict.  Use  of  these  techniques,  such  as 
traction  or  the  ambulatory  spica,  did  not  permit  physiologic  compression  of  the  frac¬ 
ture  and  ambulation  did  not  occur  until  internal  fixation  was  present.  In  the  1960s,  a 
new  modality,  the  cast  brace,  proved  to  be  an  effective  adjunct  when  the  patient 
reached  the  ambulatory  stage.  The  cast  brace  demonstrated  that  awaiting  internal  fix¬ 
ation  before  ambulation  was  not  necessary.  This  was  an  important  development  be¬ 
cause  early  ambulatory  status  improved  the  patient’s  well-being,  his  appetite,  and  the 
status  of  his  wound.  It  was  not  at  all  unusual  to  see  a  febrile  patient  with  a  large  open 
wound  become  afebrile  and  his  drainage  become  thin  after  a  few  days  of  ambulation. 
The  cast  brace,  which  allowed  upright  posture  since  the  wearer  was  not  encumbered 
by  a  bulky  cast,  provided  a  support  which  invited  active  muscle  activity  and  easier 
wound  drainage  (Connally  et  al.  1973;  Moll  1973).  The  cast  brace  was  the  most  signif¬ 
icant  innovation  in  treatment  of  combat-wounded  patients  with  fractures  of  the 
femur  that  military  medicine  developed  during  the  Vietnam  era  (fig.  8). 

Success  with  ambulatory  management  of  tibial  shaft  fractures  turned  attention  to 
the  ambulatory  management  of  patients  with  open  comminuted  femoral  fractures.  At 
the  urging  of  Dr.  Vert  Mooney,  Col.  Charles  Metz  at  Walter  Reed  embarked  on  early 
ambulation  of  femoral  shaft  fractures.  The  concept  of  early  weightbearing  ambula¬ 
tion  in  open  comminuted  femoral  shaft  fracture  cases  (Mooney  et  al.  1970)  appealed 
to  all  military  surgeons.  Those  experienced  in  managing  open  tibial  fractures  were 


Figure  8. — The  cast  brace  or  its  variations  allowed  stabilization  of  the  thigh  muscula¬ 
ture,  weight-bearing  ambulation,  active  knee  motion,  and  physiologic  use  of  the  limb 
musculature. 


PENETRATING  INJURIES  OF  THE  THIGH 


31 


certain  the  method  would  be  successful.  The  distal  one-third  of  the  femur  could  be 
handled  easily  because  support  of  the  bone  could  be  achieved  by  controlling  the  soft 
tissue  at  and  above  the  fracture  site.  However,  in  the  proximal  injuries,  the  proximal 
fragment  was  relatively  uncontrolled  and  the  inability  to  control  hip  abductor  func¬ 
tion  ultimately  resulted  in  a  varus  angulation.  Brown  (1971)  concluded  that,  although 
application  of  the  cast  brace  was  critical  and  time-consuming,  it  offered  many  advan¬ 
tages.  The  patient  s  morale  improved,  he  gained  weight,  developed  better  muscula¬ 
ture,  and  took  an  interest  earlier  in  rehabilitation.  Unfortunately,  angulation  up  to  20 
degrees  could  be  expected  in  approximately  20  percent  of  the  high  femoral  fractures 
ambulated  in  a  cast  brace  before  there  was  bony  stability  (Brown  1971). 

Of  the  first  fifty  comminuted  femoral  shaft  fractures  secondary  to  penetrating 
injuries  treated  with  the  cast  brace  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  in  Denver,  Col¬ 
orado,  over  50  percent  of  the  patients  regained  more  than  90  degrees  of  motion 
(Burkhalter  1973).  In  a  similar  series  at  Valley  Forge  General  Hospital,  all  forty- 
five  patients  in  the  group  had  over  90  degrees  of  motion  before  discharge  from  the 
hospital.  The  patients  in  both  series  had  nonunion  of  the  fractures  only  where  there 
was  extensive  bone  loss  (Deffer  et  al.  1971). 

Bailey  et  al.  (1976)  reported  a  series  of  156  patients  with  open  femoral  fractures 
treated  at  Fitzsimons.  The  patients  usually  arrived  from  the  combat  zone  or  an  off¬ 
shore  hospital  in  a  bivalved  hip  spica  with  a  Steinmann  pin  in  the  tibial  tubercle.  The 
cast  was  removed  and  the  limb  was  placed  in  balanced  skeletal  traction.  After  neces¬ 
sary  evaluation  and  interim  care,  the  patient  began  exercises  for  the  quadriceps.  As 
soon  as  he  gained  control  of  the  leg,  a  cast  brace  was  applied.  The  device  consisted  of 
a  total  contact  long-leg  cast  with  the  knee  in  full  extension.  The  plaster  was  shaped 
into  a  quadrilateral  configuration  at  the  base  of  the  leg.  Elastic  plaster  was  used  to  im¬ 
prove  the  fit  around  the  root  of  the  leg.  Roentgenograms  were  obtained  and,  if 
needed,  wedging  was  placed  in  the  cast  to  correct  the  angulation.  Single  axis  drop¬ 
lock  knee  hinges  were  incorporated  the  next  day.  Twenty-four  hours  later,  the  patient 
began  weightbearing  ambulation  with  crutches.  The  patient  performed  the  pre¬ 
scribed  knee  exercises  from  a  sitting  position.  When  enough  control  was  achieved, 
the  knee  joint  in  the  cast  was  unlocked.  Position  and  condition  of  the  femur  were 
reevaluated  radiographically  each  week  for  four  weeks  and  monthly  thereafter.  One- 
third  of  the  fractures  at  union  had  angulated.  Eight  had  anteroposterior  angulation,  5 
valgus  and  38  varus  angulation.  Of  the  varus  angulation,  24  had  less  than  10  degrees 
and  14  greater  than  10  degrees  of  angulation.  In  terms  of  motion,  one  month  after  re¬ 
moval  of  the  cast  brace,  93  of  the  156  patients  had  greater  than  90  degrees  of  motion 
of  the  knee,  and  18  had  between  70  and  90  degrees.  Average  time  to  union  of  the 
femur  was  22.4  weeks.  Two  “nonunions”  required  bone  grafts  and  then  united  with 
cast  brace  ambulation.  There  were  three  cases  of  established  osteomyelitis. 

Throughout  the  military,  Moll  (1973)  probably  has  the  earliest  and  most  exten¬ 
sive  experience  with  cast  bracing  in  these  open  femoral  fractures.  Of  184  fractures 
in  178  patients  at  Brooke  Army  Medical  Center,  San  Antonio,  Texas,  only  3  failed 
to  unite.  Malunion— (union  with  more  than  two  centimeters  of  shortening  and 
more  than  10  degrees  of  varus  or  valgus  angulation)  occuired  in  15  cases. 

Because  of  angulatory  problems,  Deffer  et  al.  (1971)  designed  a  mini-spica  cast 
brace  applied  after  the  patient  gained  muscular  control  of  the  injured  limb,  and  with 
the  hip  abducted  and  flexed  to  30  degrees.  Radiographs  confirmed  the  position  of  the 


32 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


fracture.  If  the  position  was  not  satisfactory,  it  was  altered,  as  necessary,  by  wedging. 
Knee  joints  were  incorporated  and  ambulation  was  instituted.  The  ankle  was  not  in¬ 
cluded  in  the  cast.  In  the  initial  series  of  thirty-nine  fractures,  Deffer  et  al.  (1971)  re¬ 
ported  that  only  one  ultimately  resulted  in  nonunion.  All  regained  at  least  90  degrees 
of  motion  at  the  knee  joint  and  none  had  chronic  osteomyelitis.  Average  time  to  un¬ 
supported  weightbearing  was  approximately  twenty-three  weeks  (5.7  months). 

LESSONS  LEARNED 

Without  question,  the  Vietnam  experience  showed  that  the  loss  of  significant 
bone  complicated  the  initial  treatment  and  affected  the  end  results  significantly.  In 
one  study  from  Brooke  Army  Medical  Center,  a  report  on  60  patients  with  segmental 
bone  loss  (Moll  and  Willhoite  1970),  only  4  demonstrated  a  complete  segmental  loss 
on  the  initial  roentgenograms  following  injury.  The  remaining  56  showed  the  bone 
loss  occurred  at  the  time  of  initial  or  subsequent  debridement.  In  all  reviewed  series 
of  Vietnam  casualties  involving  fractures  of  the  femur,  the  greatest  cause  for  non¬ 
union  was  a  significant  loss  of  bone  at  the  fracture  site.  This  finding  suggests  that  de¬ 
bridement  of  bone  should  be  avoided  and  that  every  effort  should  be  made  to  pre¬ 
clude  the  development  of  large  segmental  bone  losses  during  surgical  debridement. 

In  the  presence  of  extensive  soft  tissue  injury,  skeletal  traction,  which  for  most 
patients  lasted  three  to  four  weeks,  caused  early  fibrosis  of  the  fracture  site.  Further¬ 
more,  compression  of  the  fragments  did  not  occur  with  ambulation.  When  bone  loss 
caused  a  shortening  of  less  than  two  inches,  controlled  shortening  and  attempt  at  pri¬ 
mary  bone  union  were  the  most  effective  course  of  treatment. 

During  World  War  II,  Hampton  and  Cleveland  (Hampton  1957)  advocated  judi¬ 
cial  use  of  internal  fixation.  During  the  Korean  conflict,  Brav  and  Jeffress  (1953) 
and  Carr  and  Turnipseed  (1953)  observed  that  in  selective  cases  internal  fixation 
may  be  not  only  beneficial  towards  fracture  wound  healing  but  may  actually  be  life¬ 
saving.  In  Vietnam,  fixation  of  closed  fractures  was  usually  an  elective  procedure. 
However,  it  was  used  for  open  fractures,  particularly  as  a  late  reconstructive  mea¬ 
sure.  The  advantages  of  the  method  were  many.  By  restoring  bone  and  joint  archi¬ 
tecture,  it  minimized  the  use  of  incumbering  external  stabilizing  devices.  It  obliter¬ 
ated  dead  space,  thereby  accelerating  soft  tissue  healing.  And  by  minimizing  the 
chances  for  displacement  of  bone  that  could  injure  nerves  and  vessels  critical  to  the 
restoration  of  the  extremity,  it  facilitated  patient  handling  during  transit. 

With  the  use  of  the  cast  brace  for  functional  treatment  of  femoral  shaft  frac¬ 
tures,  however,  union  usually  occurred  without  internal  fixation,  although  all  series 
of  patients  included  a  few  that  failed  to  unite  with  or  without  persistent  drainage. 
Since  Brav  and  Jeffress  (1953),  Brav  (1957)  and  Carr  and  Turnipseed  (1953)  re¬ 
ported  excellent  results  with  intramedullary  nailing  of  the  delayed  or  nonunion 
without  wound  closure,  the  procedure  seemed  promising.  In  a  series  of  225  open 
femur  fractures  at  the  106th  General  Hospital  in  Japan,  intramedullary  nailing  was 
performed  in  5  cases  through  the  open  wound  without  adverse  effects. 

In  cases  of  bone  loss  with  a  healed  wound,  internal  fixation  with  bone  grafting 
of  cortiocancellous  grafts  was  possible  if  length  had  been  maintained  in  traction 
(fig.  9).  The  decision  to  maintain  length  or  allow  controlled  shortening  had  to  be 


PENETRATING  INJURIES  OF  THE  THIGH 


33 


Figure  9. — This  patient  had  only  moderate 
soft  tissue  injuries  with  a  femoral  fracture  and 
bone  loss.  Following  multiple  debridements, 
length  was  maintained  by  skeletal  traction 
until  the  thigh  was  relatively  nonreactive.  At 
this  time  bone  grafting  with  plate  and  in¬ 
tramedullary  rod  gave  a  stable  fixation.  Union 
occurred  without  infection. 


34 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  10. — Patient  sustained  a  severe  soft  tissue  injury  with  bone  loss.  Injury  re¬ 
quired  multiple  debridements,  stabilization  in  traction,  and  partial  closure  with 
meshed  split-thickness  skin  grafts.  Pedicle  flap  was  “waltzed”  from  abdomen  to  fore¬ 
arm  to  thigh  for  better  coverage.  There  was  subsequent  bone  grafting  with  a  plate  and 
fibula  to  maintain  length  and  cancellous  bone  for  union.  Drainage  persisted  until  the 
union  of  fracture  and  the  removal  of  fibular  sequestrae  and  metal  plate. 


PENETRATING  INJURIES  OF  THE  THIGH 


35 


made  within  three  to  four  weeks  after  the  injury.  If  delayed  longer,  shortening  was 
difficult  to  avoid,  even  with  ambulation.  Although  shortening  of  2  cm.  was  easily 
accepted  by  both  patient  and  physician,  even  shortening  of  4  to  6  cm.  was  recog¬ 
nized  and  accepted.  The  latter  was  usual  in  the  case  of  some  soft  tissue  injury  or  loss 
and  in  complex  wounds  where  there  was  difficulty  getting  wound  control.  In  this  sit¬ 
uation,  maintaining  length  by  bone  grafting  was  not  usually  considered  feasible 
(Moll  and  Willhoite  1970)  (fig.  10). 

Although  the  cast  brace  was  ideally  suited  for  the  open  comminuted  femoral 
shaft  fracture,  angulating  malunion  occurred  in  the  more  proximal  fractures.  In  this 
group  of  patients,  osteotomy  with  internal  fixation  was  carried  out  following  union 
and  rehabilitation  of  the  extremity. 

Wounds  with  persistent  drainage  or  potential  chronic  osteomyelitis  also  concern 
the  military  physician  because  they  preclude  healing.  Although  antibiotics  certainly 
proved  an  invaluable  adjunct,  they  did  not  preclude  the  surgeon’s  responsibility  for 
distinguishing  between  local  wound  contamination,  local  wound  infection,  systemic 
infection,  or  a  combination  of  these  conditions.  Wound  contamination  was  usually 
contained  at  the  time  of  debridement  with  irrigation  and  excision  of  tissue,  and  sys¬ 
temic  infections  subsided  with  use  of  appropriate  antibiotics.  Localized  wound  in¬ 
fection  usually  subsided  when  union  was  obtained. 

Except  in  desperate  situations,  there  appeared  to  be  little  need  to  use  internal 
fixation.  If  debridement,  drainage,  and  antibiotics  did  not  stabilize  the  wound  area 
and  the  patient,  intramedullary  nailing  of  the  infected  femur  was  carried  out,  as  ad¬ 
vocated  by  Brav  and  Jeffress  (1953)  following  the  Korean  conflict  (Brav  1957).  The 
value  of  the  early  ambulation  following  I-M  nailing  or  use  of  the  cast  brace  cannot 
be  overstated  in  hastening  the  healing  process  and  reducing  the  number  of  cases  of 
persistent  drainage  or  osteomyelitis. 


36 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


The  orthopedic  surgeon  had  to  be  constantly  aware  of  the  problems  that  could 
follow  a  vascular  repair.  Massive  swelling  of  the  calf  with  the  requirement  for  fas- 
ciotomy  had  to  be  considered.  Thrombosis  was  possible  any  time  during  the  first 
two  weeks.  Disruption  at  the  site  of  anastomosis  was  also  possible  and  was  usually 
secondary  to  infection  because  of  inadequate  debridement.  The  nursing  staff 
needed  standard  operating  procedures  for  action  if  disruption  of  arterial  repair  oc¬ 
curred.  All  treatment  relating  to  the  fractured  femur  had  to  be  supported  by  the 
program  which  gave  the  best  assurance  of  a  successful  and  lasting  vascular  repair. 
At  all  times,  the  medical  personnel  needed  easy  access  both  to  the  site  of  vascular 
repair  and  to  an  area  of  proximal  digital  control. 

During  the  course  of  initial  treatment  of  the  fractured  femur,  previously  unde¬ 
tected  vascular  lesions  sometimes  surfaced.  Palpation  of  extremities  was  therefore 
part  of  the  routine  examination  in  the  management  of  combat  injuries.  Metallic 
fragments  near  the  course  of  major  vessels  (identified  on  roentgenograms)  height¬ 
ened  the  index  of  suspicion  of  an  unrecognized  vascular  injury.  One  patient  with  a 
fractured  femur  who  should  have  been  in  an  anabolic  course  continued  in  a 
catabolic  course  with  a  persistent  tachycardia  and  was  suspected  of  having  an  un¬ 
recognized  arteriovenous  fistula.  These  lesions  made  themselves  known  by  sponta¬ 
neous  hemorrhage  from  wound  sites,  an  area  of  rapidly  increasing  swelling,  or  by 
palpation  of  a  thrill  over  a  course  of  a  vessel.  Such  unrecognized  vascular  lesions 
were  fairly  common.  During  the  course  of  treating  patients  with  extremity  injuries, 
personnel  were  cautioned  to  watch  diligently  for  any  evidence  of  such  lesions. 

In  some  cases,  vascular  repair  was  unsuccessful.  The  inability  to  restore  success¬ 
ful  distal  circulation  usually  resulted  in  ablation  of  the  nonviable  portion  of  the  ex¬ 
tremity.  When  this  occurred,  primary  rules  of  surgery  continued  in  effect:  the  ex¬ 
tremity  with  the  fractured  femur  was  ablated  at  the  most  distal  site  possible. 
Presence  of  a  fractured  femur  did  not  alter  the  decision  for  a  below-knee  amputa¬ 
tion  if  the  vascular  supply  to  the  extremity  supported  an  amputation  at  that  level. 
Consideration  was  not  given  to  amputation  at  the  fracture  site  unless  there  was  no 
distal  tissue  viability.  In  the  majority  of  cases  where  below-knee  amputation  did 
occur,  experience  has  shown  that  the  fracture  of  the  femur  healed  satisfactorily,  and 
the  patient  could  be  fitted  with  a  below-knee  prosthesis. 

The  best  concepts  and  practices  from  military  surgeons  of  World  Wars  I  and  II  and 
the  Korean  conflict  were  practiced  by  orthopedic  surgeons  during  the  Vietnam  War. 
No  substitute  for  adequate  debridement  was  considered.  Broad-spectrum  antibiotics 
and  specific  antibiotics  for  gram-negative  and  gram-positive  organisms  were  only 
adjuncts  to  preventing  systemic  and  local  infections.  Adequate  drainage  and  “no 
closure"  were  practiced  in  the  care  of  open  wounds  involving  fractured  femurs  with 
disruption  of  surrounding  tissues.  Reestablishment  of  distal  vascular  flow  took 
precedence  over  fracture  management. 

Well-done  initial  wound  surgery  and  early  reexploration  in  signs  of  sepsis  were 
the  keys  to  wound  and  tracture  management.  Skeletal  traction  and  exercises  to  all 
musculature  until  the  patient  gained  control  of  the  leg  followed.  The  next  step  was 
weightbearing  ambulation  with  the  extremity  in  a  well-fitted  cast  brace.  Early  func¬ 
tional  rehabilitation  gave  us  superior  results.  Indeed,  the  early  ambulation  of  pa¬ 
tients  in  cast  braces  appears  to  be  the  most  outstanding  medical  innovation  of  the 
Vietnam  conflict  for  treating  thigh  wounds. 


PENETRATING  INJURIES  OF  THE  THIGH 


37 


REFERENCES 

Bailey,  J.  D.;  Hackthorn,  J.  C.;  Donley,  J.;  and  Burkhalter,  W.  1976.  Cast  brace  treat¬ 
ment  of  femoral  fractures.  Contemp.  Surg.  8:32-36. 

Bagg,  R.  J.  1967.  Presentation  before  Far  East  Chapter  of  Association  of  Military 
Surgeons. 

Brav,  E.  1957.  Further  evaluation  of  the  use  of  intramedullary  nailing  in  the  treat¬ 
ment  of  gunshot  fractures  of  the  extremities.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery 
(Am)  39:513-20. 

Brav,  E.  A.,  and  Fitts,  W.  T.,  Jr.  1946.  Gunshot  fractures  of  the  femoral  shaft.  Surg. 
Gynecol.  Obstet.  82:91-100. 

Brav,  E.  S.,  and  Jeffress,  V.  H.  1953.  Modified  intramedullary  nailing  in  recent  gun¬ 
shot  fractures  of  the  femoral  shaft.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  35:141-52. 

Brown,  P.  1971.  Cast-bracing  of  fractures  sponsored  by  the  National  Academy  of 
Sciences,  Washington,  D.C. 

Burkhalter,  W.  E.  1973.  Open  injuries  of  the  lower  extremity:  symposium  on 
trauma.  Surg.  Clin.  North  Am.  53:1439-57. 

Carr,  C.  R.,  and  Turnipseed,  D.  1953.  Experiences  with  intramedullary  fixation  of 
compound  femoral  fractures  of  war  wounds.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery 
35:153-71. 

CINCPAC^J.  1970.  Commander  in  Chief,  Pacific.  Fourth  CINCPAC  Conference 
on  War  Surgery.  Tri-service  conference  on  war  surgery  conducted  in  Tokyo, 
Japan,  16-19  February  1970.  Incl  with  Cover  ltr,  Frank  B.  Voris,  M.D.,  RADM 
USN,  CINCPAC  Surgeon,  2  Mar  70. 

Connolly,  J.  F.;  Dehne,  E.;  and  LaFollette,  B.  1973.  Closed  reduction  and  early  cast- 
brace  ambulation  in  the  treatment  of  femoral  fractures.  Journal  of  Bone  and 
Joint  Surgery  55:1581-95. 

Deffer,  P.  A.;  Roschelle,  I.  A.;  and  Goodman,  F.  G.  1971.  The  management  of  frac¬ 
tures  of  the  femur  by  early  ambulation  utilizing  a  mini  spica  cast  brace.  Pres¬ 
entation  at  workshop  on  cast  bracing  of  fractures,  sponsored  by  the  National 
Academy  of  Sciences,  Washington. 

DeLorme,  T.  L.;  West,  F.  E.;  and  Schriber,  W.  J.  1950.  Influence  of  progressive  resis¬ 
tance  exercises  of  knee  function  following  femoral  fractures.  Journal  of  Bone 
and  Joint  Surgery  (Am)  32:910-24. 

Hampton,  O.  R,  Jr.  1957.  Orthopedic  surgery  in  the  Mediterranean  Theater  of  Oper¬ 
ations.  Mather  Cleveland,  ed.  Washington:  GPO. 

Moll,  J.  1973.  The  cast-brace  walking  treatment  of  open  and  closed  femoral  frac¬ 
tures.  South.  Med.  J.  66:345-52. 

Moll,  J.  J.,  and  Willhoite,  D.  R.  1970.  Abstract:  long-bone  defects  due  to  missile  in¬ 
jury.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  (Am)  52:835-37. 

Mooney,  V.;  Nickel,  V.  L.;  Harvey,  J.  R,  Jr.;  and  Snelson,  R.  1970.  Cast-brace  treat¬ 
ment  for  fractures  of  the  distal  part  of  the  femur.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint 
Surgery  (Am)  52:1563. 

Soto-Hall,  R.  and  Horwitz,  T.  1946.  Treatment  of  compound  fractures  of  the  femur. 
J.A.M.A.  130:128-34. 


3 


Penetrating  Wounds  of  the  Leg 
With  Associated  Fractures  of  the  Tibia 

Colonel  William  E.  Burkhalter,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 


HISTORICAL  BACKGROUND 

During  World  War  I,  4,485  American  servicemen  incurred  fractures  of  the  tibia 
and  fibula.  Indeed,  about  20  percent  of  all  fractures  were  unstable  fractures  of  the 
lower  leg  secondary  to  battle-incurred  injury.  The  morbidity  and  mortality  from  this 
injury  were  significant.  In  the  U.S.  Army,  for  battle-incurred  fractures  of  the  tibia 
alone  the  mortality  was  10  percent,  and  slightly  higher  if  both  bones  of  the  leg  were 
fractured.  The  amputation  rate  in  combined  injury  to  tibia  and  fibula  was  906  of  the 
4,485  cases  or  over  20  percent  (MD-WW  1927,  493,  499,  507). 

At  first,  prefabricated  splints  were  used  in  the  management  of  the  injury  but  this 
method  as  well  as  skin  or  skeletal  traction  proved  unsatisfactory,  and  both  methods  re¬ 
sulted  in  an  excessively  high  rate  of  nonunion.  Tibial  fractures  made  up  a  substantial 
proportion  of  battle-incurred  fractures,  and  tibial  fracture  nonunion  was  the  most 
common  nonunion.  Surgeons  at  the  time  concluded  that  the  nonunions  had  occurred 
because  such  fractures  required  prolonged  protection  from  weightbearing.  Thus  the 
plaster  of  Paris  cast  became  the  preferred  method  of  treatment  (MD-WW  1927, 
507-08, 639-41). 

In  World  War  II,  military  surgeons  emphasized  the  technique  of  delayed  pri¬ 
mary  closure  in  debrided  open  fractures  (Cleveland,  ETO  1956;  Hampton  1957).  In 
the  European  theater,  however,  delayed  primary  closure  proved  unsatisfactory  for 
battle-incurred  injuries  below  the  knee  and  was  possible  in  only  60  percent  of  the 
cases.  In  a  series  of  2,393  delayed  primary  closures  with  accompanying  fractures, 
primary  healing  occurred  in  only  1,592  or  about  66  percent.  Partial  success  was 
achieved  by  the  surgeons  in  27  percent,  but  in  6.7  percent  of  the  cases  they  suffered 
complete  failure.  In  a  similar  group  of  wounds  allowed  to  heal  by  secondary  inten¬ 
tion,  87  percent  closed  in  ten  to  twelve  weeks  with  5.4  percent  incidence  of  os¬ 
teomyelitis  (Cleveland,  ETO  1956,  91-99,  151).  In  the  Mediterranean  theater.  Dr. 
Oscar  P.  Hampton,  Jr.,  attempted  delayed  primary  internal  fixation  at  the  time  of 
delayed  wound  closure  in  fractures  below  the  knee;  but  in  41  ol  168  cases,  massive 
skin  and  bone  loss  occurred  (Hampton  1957,  199). 

For  battle-incurred  fractures  of  the  tibia,  treatment  continued  to  emphasize  pro¬ 
longed  traction  and  immobilization  followed  by  prolonged  nonweightbearing. 
Weightbearing  was  not  permitted  until  beginning  union  was  demonstrated  radio¬ 
graphically.  No  traction  or  splints  were  used  to  maintain  stability  (Cleveland  and 
Shands  1970,  702).  The  typical  treatment  program  consisted  of  a  long-leg  cast  with 


40 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


the  knee  in  various  degrees  of  extension  and  nonweightbearing.  The  use  of  non¬ 
weightbearing  ambulation  with  plaster  of  Paris  immobilization  to  manage  tibial 
fractures  continued  through  the  Korean  War. 

Delayed  primary  closure  as  a  technique  achieved  support  from  its  use  in  pene¬ 
trating  injuries  of  the  thigh  and  upper  extremity.  However,  delayed  primary  closure 
with  or  without  internal  fixation  of  the  fractures  of  the  lower  leg  seemed  to  yield 
relatively  poor  results.  Statistically,  this  proved  to  be  another  fracture  in  which  de¬ 
layed  primary  closure  was  not  an  acceptable  technique  in  early  management. 

TREATMENT  IN  VIETNAM 

In  most  instances  in  Vietnam,  open  injuries  below  the  knee  with  associated  frac¬ 
tures  of  the  tibia  were  secondary  to  high-velocity  wounding  agents,  such  as  mine  ex¬ 
plosions  and  direct  bullet  wounds,  rather  than  shell  fragments.  Such  wounds  were 
compounded  from  without  and  contained  considerable  debris.  The  company  aid- 
man  provided  initial  management  of  the  wound  and  the  fracture.  He  applied  sterile 
occlusive  dressing  to  prevent  further  contamination  from  without  and  to  decrease 
bleeding.  Tourniquets  were  not  used.  Following  application  of  sterile  dressings, 
some  type  of  external  splintage  was  needed  before  evacuation  from  the  field.  Al¬ 
though  pneumatic  splints  were  sometimes  available,  the  leg  was  usually  placed  in 
an  Army  half-ring  splint  and  held  in  position  with  additional  slings  or  triangular 
bandages  (fig.  11).  Occasionally,  bamboo  splints  and  pieces  of  wood  were  used.  De¬ 
pending  upon  the  area  of  operation  and  sophistication  of  the  equipment,  intra¬ 
venous  fluids  and,  occasionally,  blood  were  given  in  the  field  before  helicopter 
evacuation  to  a  fixed  facility — a  surgical,  field,  or  evacuation  hospital. 

Upon  arrival  at  the  hospital,  the  patient  went  to  the  triage  area  where  his  general 
condition  was  evaluated  and  a  search  was  made  for  additional  injuries  before  surgery. 
Also  in  triage  the  patient  received  intravenous  fluids,  tetanus  prophylaxis,  and  large 
doses  of  antibiotics.  Although  the  wound  itself  was  not  evaluated  at  this  time,  the 
neurocirculatory  status  of  the  limb  was  determined  and  roentgenograms  were  ob¬ 
tained  in  two  planes  while  the  limb  was  supported  in  the  splint.  The  radiographic  ex¬ 
amination,  in  addition  to  delineating  fracture  geography,  gave  additional  information 
about  the  extent  to  which  the  wounding  agent  had  blown  gas  into  the  tissues  and  in 
the  tissue  planes  proximal  to  the  site  of  injury.  The  presence  of  air  proximally  along 
tissue  planes  alerted  the  surgeon  that  he  must  explore  the  area  extensively  for  radi- 
olucent  foreign  bodies.  The  occlusive  dressing  and  splints  remained  in  place  until  the 
patient  was  in  the  operating  room.  Blood  transfusions  were  given  as  required. 

After  initial  evaluation,  the  patient  was  placed  in  a  preoperative  holding  area 
and  monitored  while  awaiting  surgery.  The  limb  remained  splinted  with  dressings  in 
place,  and  the  patient  received  intravenous  fluids  or  blood  and  antibiotics.  At  this 
time,  most  patients  did  not  require  analgesic  medication.  Splinting  the  limb  seemed 
to  decrease  post-injury  pain. 

In  the  operating  room  at  least  one  person  assisted  the  surgeon  during  the  opera¬ 
tive  procedure.  Treatment  began  with  application  of  a  pneumatic  tourniquet  and 
prepping  the  entire  extremity.  Next,  the  wound  was  explored  through  longitudinal 
incisions  with  little  or  no  skin  debridement.  Wide  incisions  and  excisions  of  fascia 


PENETRATING  WOUNDS  OF  THE  LEG 


41 


Figure  11. — In  the  Republic  of  Vietnam  air  splints  were  available,  but  sometimes  pro¬ 
longed  high  pressures  brought  complications  such  as  impending  compartment  syndromes. 

were  performed  to  allow  decompression  of  individual  muscle  compartments  and 
excellent  exposure  of  neurovascular  structures  and  muscle  tendon  units.  Exposure 
of  the  arteries  and  the  nerves  in  the  leg  during  wound  debridement  allowed  protec¬ 
tion  of  these  structures  and  avoided  accidental  injury  during  wound  excision.  The 
surgeon  removed  tissue  with  poor  blood  supply  and  poor  resistance  to  infection.  In 
addition,  with  fascial  decompression,  he  exposed  individual  muscle  compartments. 
Release  of  the  fascial  envelope  from  each  muscle  compartment  in  the  leg  permitted 
the  muscles  to  expand  freely  (fig.  12). 

Before  Vietnam,  medical  opinion  held  that  an  open  fracture  decompressed  the 
muscle  compartment  of  the  leg  and  that  necrosis  of  muscle  in  an  intact  compartment 
was  rare.  This  belief  was  not  borne  out  clinically  in  Vietnam  where  compartment  syn¬ 
dromes  were  seen  in  open  fractures.  However,  this  condition  differed  from  those  re¬ 
ported  by  Ellis  (1958)  and  by  Owen  and  Tsimboukis  (1965)  in  closed  fractures  with 
accompanying  compartment  syndromes*  because  the  combination  of  an  open  wound 
with  disseminated  muscle  necrosis  throughout  the  limb  resulted  in  amputation 
(Schmitt  and  Armstrong  1970).  Therefore,  fascial  decompression  was  essential  be¬ 
cause,  without  it,  muscle  swelling  in  a  closed  compartment  reduced  perfusion  to  the 
muscle  and  sometimes  resulted  in  ischemic  necrosis  of  an  entire  compartment.  Ide¬ 
ally,  fascial  release  involved  all  four  muscular  compartments  in  the  leg  to  allow  maxi- 


*Raymond  Bagg,  M.  D.  (Col.,  MC,  USA.  Ret.),  unpublished  records  of  a  longitudinal  study  of  cases 
from  106th  General  Hospital  (1966—1970).  William  E.  Burkhalter,  M.D.,  (Col.,  MC,  USA,  Ret.)  and  D. 
Reich,  M.D.  Deep  posterior  compartment  syndrome  in  the  lower  extremity. 


42 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  12.  Evidence  of  poor  debridement.  No  longitudinal  incision  for  exposure  was 
made.  Rubber  drains  will  not  make  up  for  poor  surgery.  Patient  subsequently  became 
a  below-knee  amputee. 


PENETRATING  WOUNDS  OF  THE  LEG 


43 


mum  decompression  (Kelly  and  Whitesides  1967).  Some  vascular  injuries  in  the  leg 
resulted  in  amputation,  but  usually  widespread  fascial  excision  and  compartment  de¬ 
compression  allowed  perfusion  to  improve  and  the  limb  to  survive. 

The  initial  treatment  was  directed  primarily  to  the  wound.  Exploration  and  debride¬ 
ment  were  extremely  important  at  this  time;  fracture  management  was  secondary.  Clo¬ 
sure  was  not  carried  out,  in  any  instance,  at  the  time  of  initial  wound  surgery. 

At  the  conclusion  of  wound  debridement,  the  tourniquet  was  deflated,  a  search 
made  for  major  bleeding  vessels,  and  the  quality  of  circulation  distal  to  the  site  of 
injury  evaluated.  If  no  major  bleeding  points  were  noted,  the  tourniquet  was  rein¬ 
flated,  the  wound  dressed  with  fine  mesh  gauze,  and  a  long-leg  plaster  cast  applied 
in  two  sections.  The  first  section  applied  was  the  distal  portion  with  the  knee  flexed 
at  90  degrees  over  the  edge  of  the  operating  table  so  that  gravity  would  reduce  the 
fracture.  The  second  or  proximal  portion  of  the  cast  was  applied  above  the  knee, 
after  the  first  part  had  set  and  generally  with  the  knee  in  nearly  full  extension. 

After  the  whole  cast  had  hardened,  it  was  bivalved  and  wrapped  with  a  bandage 
to  maintain  stability  for  the  fracture  and  soft  tissue  injury.  Some  surgeons  in  Viet¬ 
nam  attempted  to  use  long-leg  posterior  splints  made  of  plaster  of  Paris  as  a  substi¬ 
tute  for  a  bivalved  long-leg  cast,  but  these  repeatedly  proved  ineffective.  The  splint 
broke  at  the  knee  and  at  the  ankle  and  did  not  protect  the  fracture  and  soft  tissue 
injuries.  Also,  patients  so  fitted  experienced  considerable  discomfort  during  evacu¬ 
ation.  Frequently,  ill-fitting  splints  produced  pressure  sores  about  the  heel  and,  on 
occasion,  a  common  peroneal  nerve  paralysis  resulted  from  pressure  in  the  area  of 
the  fibular  head.  The  stability  of  the  bivalved  and  wrapped  long-leg  plaster  cast  was 
far  superior  to  any  type  of  plaster  of  Paris  splint. 

If  signs  of  sepsis  or  excessive  pain  at  the  fracture  site  developed  during  the  imme¬ 
diate  postoperative  period,  the  patient  was  returned  to  the  operating  room  for  rede¬ 
bridement  and  more  extensive  exploration.  In  mine  injuries  or  shell  fragment 
wounds,  particularly,  the  blast  effect  frequently  carried  debris  proximally,  subcuta¬ 
neously  or  along  fascial  planes  in  the  leg.  Opening  of  apparently  undamaged  muscle 
compartments  both  proximal  and  distal  to  the  wound  was  required.  In  certain  in¬ 
stances,  the  wounding  agent  even  blew  foreign  material  into  the  proximal  synovial 
tissues,  such  as  the  tenosynovium  around  tendons,  or  even  the  joints.  If  the  extent  of 
wounding  was  not  appreciated  at  the  time  of  the  initial  wound  surgery,  signs  of  sepsis 
developed  rapidly  and  the  patient  became  toxic  within  the  first  twenty-four  hours. 
Reoperation  with  more  extensive  proximal  longitudinal  incisions  was  then  necessary 
to  save  the  extremity.  Adequate  radiographic  films  and  their  perusal  at  the  time  of 
the  initial  injury  sometimes  helped  the  surgeon  delineate  the  extent  of  the  problems, 
including  gas  along  tissue  planes  proximal  to  the  actual  wounding  site. 

Because  of  the  interest  in  delayed  primary  closure  in  the  management  of  soft  tis¬ 
sue  wounds  as  well  as  wounds  associated  with  fracture,  some  attempts  were  made  in 
evacuation  hospitals  in  Vietnam  to  apply  this  technique.  In  the  early  years  of  the 
Vietnam  War,  if  patients  could  not  be  evacuated  out  of  country  because  of  associ¬ 
ated  injuries,  surgeons  attempted  delayed  primary  wound  closure  after  the  patient 
was  hospitalized  in  Vietnam  for  five  or  six  days.  Experience  showed  that  this  tech¬ 
nique  was  not  effective  for  penetrating  injuries  of  the  leg  with  associated  tibial  and 
fibular  fractures.  This  mirrored  the  World  War  II  experience  reported  by  Hampton 
(1957,  53-57,  160-80).  Soft  tissues  were  markedly  swollen,  frequently  skin  was  lost, 


44 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


and  usually  the  wound  was  anterior  or  anteromedial  in  the  leg.  If  tension  is  applied 
to  the  skin  of  this  particular  area,  known  for  its  poor  tolerance  of  tension,  necrosis 
promptly  results.  Attempts  to  make  relaxing  incisions  in  the  posterior  calf  and  to 
shift  skin  anteriorly  were  unsuccessful.  Associated  complications  included  massive 
loss  of  skin,  subcutaneous  infection  beneath  the  transferred  skin,  and  further  loss  of 
tissue  at  the  fracture  site.  As  a  result  of  this  experience  early  in  the  Vietnam  conflict, 
participants  at  the  first  Pacific  Conference  on  War  Surgery  in  1967  recommended 
against  tension  closures  or  skin  shifts  to  cover  exposed  bone  (CINCPAC-1  1967,  40) 
and  discouraged  relaxing  incisions  and  local  rotation  flaps.  Our  experience  indicated 
that,  even  if  a  patient  could  not  be  evacuated  because  of  associated  injuries,  no  at¬ 
tempt  should  be  made  to  use  the  technique  of  delayed  primary  closure  in  penetrat¬ 
ing  injuries  of  the  leg  with  associated  tibial  fractures.  Therefore,  after  the  wound  had 
been  rendered  surgically  clean  in  the  operating  room,  the  wound  was  left  open  and 
an  occlusive  dressing  and  plaster  cast  were  applied.  If  nothing  suggested  sepsis  at  the 
fracture  site,  there  was  no  reason  to  examine  the  wound  again  in  Vietnam,  even  if 
evacuation  had  to  be  delayed  because  of  associated  injuries. 

Following  bivalving  of  the  cast,  if  the  patient  was  nontoxic,  well  hydrated,  and 
had  an  adequate  hematocrit,  and  if  other  injuries  permitted,  he  was  evacuated.  A 
brief  operative  note  concerning  the  status  of  damaged  tissues  in  the  limb  was  sup¬ 
posed  to  accompany  the  patient,  but  this  was  sometimes  lost.  In  order  to  assure 
communication  in  the  event  that  records  did  not  accompany  the  patient,  a  conscien¬ 
tious  surgeon  made  notes  on  the  plaster  cast  regarding  whether  there  were  vascular 
or  nerve  injuries.  If  there  was  a  nerve  injury,  the  note  regarding  loss  of  substance, 
simple  contusion,  or  loss  of  an  entire  muscle  tendon  unit  was  extremely  important 
to  the  surgeon  receiving  the  patient.  Even  if  operative  notes  accompanied  the  pa¬ 
tient,  they  were  usually  grossly  inadequate;  the  vital  positive  and  important  infor¬ 
mation  was  not  provided  on  a  consistent  basis. 

TREATMENT  AFTER  VIETNAM 

Once  the  patient  left  Vietnam,  weightbearing  ambulation  became  the  goal.  In 
1961,  Ernst  Dehne  et  al.  reported  on  the  management  of  the  tibial  shaft  fracture  by 
weightbearing  ambulation  in  a  long-leg  plaster  cast.  This  functional  method  of 
treatment  ignored  the  wound  after  the  initial  surgery  and  concentrated  on  early 
restoration  of  function  using  the  long-leg  cast.  Wound  closure  occurred  by  sec¬ 
ondary  intention  healing  under  the  cast  during  weightbearing  activity.  Until  1965, 
this  method  of  management  was  widely  practiced  in  U.S.  Army  station  and  general 
hospitals.  Although  there  was  some  concern  among  members  of  the  general  ortho¬ 
pedic  community  about  shortening  during  weightbearing  ambulation,  the  high  inci¬ 
dence  of  union  in  a  relatively  short  time  without  associated  joint  stiffness  of  the 
foot,  knee,  or  ankle  impressed  them.  The  combat-incurred  tibial  shaft  fracture  met 
the  criteria  tor  this  Junctional  method  of  treatment.  The  highly  comminuted  frac¬ 
ture  was  allowed  to  shorten  in  a  controlled  fashion  to  improve  contact  stability. 
Maintenance  of  lull  length  by  traction  invited  delayed  union  or  nonunion  (Dehne 
et  al.  1961a;  Dehne  et  al.  1961b)  (fig.  13). 


PENETRATING  WOUNDS  OF  THE  LEG 


45 


Figure  13. — In  treating  tibial  shaft  fractures,  the  emphasis  was  on  function.  Initially, 
weight-bearing  ambulation  in  a  long-leg  cast  was  instituted.  Subsequently  immobiliza¬ 
tion  decreased  to  a  Delbet  cast  in  this  case. 


Secondary  intention  wound  healing  obviated  the  need  for  relaxing  incision,  ten¬ 
sion  closure,  covering  bone  by  split-thickness  skin  grafts,  cross-leg  flap  with  its  asso¬ 
ciated  requirement  for  internal  fixation,  and  above  all  the  prolonged  recumbency 
of  the  patient.  Because  of  these  advantages,  the  majority  of  patients  with  combat- 
incurred  tibial  shaft  fractures  were  treated  by  weightbearing  ambulation  in  a  long- 
leg  plaster  cast  (Brown  1973;  Brown  1974;  Dehne  1969;  Dehne  1974). 

In  certain  instances,  surgeons  covered  large  wounds  of  the  calf  or  lateral  leg 
with  split  thickness  skin  grafts  before  the  beginning  of  weightbearing  ambulation. 
Closure  of  these  wounds  decreased  fluid  loss  from  the  wound  and  permitted  the 
long-leg  cast  to  be  kept  in  position  for  a  longer  time  without  severe  odors  develop¬ 
ing  and  cast  changes  becoming  necessary. 

Generally,  when  a  patient  with  an  isolated  tibial  shaft  fracture  arrived  at  a  fixed 
facility,  he  was  evaluated  in  an  orthopedic  holding  area.  If  there  were  no  signs  of  sep¬ 
sis  and  nothing  to  suggest  problems  with  the  wound,  a  surgeon  in  mask  and  gloves 
inspected  the  wounds.  He  applied  a  new  sterile  dressing  and  a  well  contoured,  total- 
contact  long-leg  cast  that  included  a  walker.  Then  the  patient  was  ready  for  weight¬ 
bearing  ambulation.  On  the  other  hand,  if  there  were  signs  of  sepsis  or  considerable 
foul  odor  and  pain  in  the  extremity,  the  patient  was  not  evaluated  in  the  holding 
area.  He  was  removed  instead  to  the  operating  theater  for  further  operative  expo¬ 
sure,  debridement,  and  exploration.  Even  in  an  offshore  hospital,  such  as  Tripler 
Army  Medical  Center  in  Hawaii  and  the  hospitals  in  Japan,  most  of  the  tibial  shaft 
fractures  were  treated  for  a  few  days  with  weightbearing  ambulation  using  crutches 


46 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


before  evacuation  to  the  continental  United  States.  This  approach  was  generally  ap¬ 
plicable  only  to  those  patients  who  had  an  isolated  injury  below  the  knee. 

Sarmiento  (1967)  described  his  experience  with  the  total-contact  short-leg  cast 
in  the  management  of  tibial  fractures.  Depending  upon  the  fracture  level  and  the 
severity  of  the  soft  tissue  injury,  this  cast  was  also  used  after  several  days,  several 
weeks,  or  several  months.  The  ideal  was  to  increase  the  range  of  knee  motion  and 
muscular  activity  during  weightbearing  ambulation.  However,  in  both  the  short-leg 
cast  of  Sarmiento  and  the  long-leg  cast  of  Dehne,  the  goal  was  to  return  the  dam¬ 
aged  lower  extremity  to  full  functional  activity  as  rapidly  as  possible. 

The  exposure  of  tibial  cortex  and  the  tibial  fracture  site  was  seen  frequently  in 
penetrating  injuries  because  of  the  destruction  of  overlying  skin  and  soft  tissues,  es¬ 
pecially  in  the  anterior  or  anteromedial  area.  Initially,  surgeons  believed  that  cover¬ 
ing  exposed  bone  by  tissue  shifts  was  necessary  to  preserve  bony  integrity  and  to 
prevent  desiccation  of  the  underlying  bone.  In  some  large  wounds,  tissue  loss  was  so 
great  that  cross-leg  flaps  for  coverage  of  the  bone  were  thought  to  be  required.  How¬ 
ever,  in  well  debrided  wounds  with  an  exposed  tibial  fracture  site,  union  of  the  frac¬ 
ture  occurred  without  covering  the  fracture  site  by  tissue  shifts,  either  locally  or  from 
a  distance.  The  exposed  bone  was  covered  by  granulation  tissue  from  viable  muscle 
peripherally  and  from  VolkmamVs  canals  in  the  tibial  shaft  itself.  In  the  exposed 
bone  without  periosteum  a  portion  of  the  tibial  cortex  may  have  become  necrotic, 
but  the  actual  depth  of  necrosis  was  difficult  to  evaluate,  and  the  management  of  the 
exposed  bone  was  initially  nonsurgical.  As  secondary  intention  wound  healing  pro¬ 
ceeded  and  the  fracture  was  treated  functionally  by  weightbearing  ambulation,  the 
obviously  necrotic  bone  tended  to  separate  from  viable  bone  beneath  and  made  the 
decision  on  depth  of  bone  debridement  quite  easy.  Union  of  these  fractures  occurred 
in  a  similar  time  frame  to  that  for  open  fractures  and  with  no  greater  infection  rate. 
Union  occurred  through  the  well  vascularized  posterior  and  lateral  tibial  cortex  and 
periosteum  (Burkhalter  and  Protzman  1975)  (fig.  14). 

In  Brown  and  Urban  s  (1969)  discussion  of  early  weightbearing  ambulation  of  tib¬ 
ial  shaft  fractures,  the  authors  stated  that  in  a  series  of  60  adult  patients  with  63  open 
fractures  of  the  tibia,  all  fractures  united.  Forty-two  of  these  60  patients  had  combat- 
incurred  injuries.  In  this  series,  the  wounds  of  4  patients  continued  to  drain  intermit¬ 
tently  until  the  patients  were  discharged  from  military  service.  In  these  4  cases,  how¬ 
ever,  drainage  was  minimal  and  did  not  interfere  with  normal  function  of  the  limb  or 
activities  of  daily  living.  The  final  outcome  of  the  drainage  was  not  known.  Witschi 
and  Omer  (1970)  discussed  their  results  with  84  patients  with  tibial  shaft  fractures  in¬ 
curred  in  Vietnam  combat.  They  reported  that  after  their  initial  attempts  to  obtain 
wound  closure  by  split-thickness  skin  grafts  through  windows  in  a  plaster  cast,  their 
concern  with  soft  tissue  wound  healing  gradually  abated.  They  preferred  long-leg  or 
short-leg  casts  and  ambulatory  treatment  of  the  fracture,  avoiding  excessive  concern 
with  soft  tissue  healing.  In  their  series  of  84  patients,  7  had  established  osteomyelitis. 

Burkhalter  and  Protzman  (1975)  evaluated  228  combat-incurred  open  tibial 
shaft  fractures  treated  by  debridement,  weightbearing  ambulation  in  a  long-leg 
cast,  and  wound  healing  by  secondary  intention.  They  believed  that  a  well  debrided 
wound  allowed  to  heal  by  secondary  intention  responded  similarly  to  a  civilian-in¬ 
curred  injury.  An  open  fracture  allowed  to  heal  with  exposed  bone  at  the  fracture 
site  required  an  average  of  only  two  weeks  additional  time  before  removal  of  the 


PENETRATING  WOUNDS  OF  THE  LEG 


47 


external  immobilization  than  did  an  uncomplicated  open  fracture.  The  infection 
rate  in  these  228  plus  61  civilian  cases  was  3.8  percent.  All  of  the  these  infections  oc¬ 
curred  in  military  open-penetrating  injuries. 

In  a  series  of  200  tibial  fractures  that  were  treated  at  the  106th  General  Hospital 
in  Japan  and  were  followed  by  record  in  two  hospitals  in  the  United  States  (Bagg 
1966-70),  thirteen  extremities  required  some  type  of  amputation,  either  before  or 
after  arrival  at  the  106th  or  in  a  follow-up  hospital.  The  most  common  cause  for 
these  amputations  was  failure  to  control  sepsis.  This  was  previously  reported  by 
Schmitt  and  Armstrong  (1970)  from  the  U.S.  Air  Force  Hospital.  Clark  Air  Base,  in 
the  Philippines,  tor  the  period  1965  through  1967.  Ten  of  the  amputations  in  the 
106th  General  Hospital  series  were  below  the  knee  and  three  were  above  the  knee 
or  disarticulations  of  the  knee.  Five  of  the  patients  were  lost  to  follow-up  before  a 
definitive  decision  was  made  regarding  function  of  the  leg  and  union  of  the  bone. 

In  bone  loss  injuries  the  intent  was  either  to  obtain  union  of  the  tibia  by  poste¬ 
rior  gratt  or  to  create  a  posterior  tibial  fibular  synostosis  by  the  position  of  the  graft 
in  the  interosseous  space  between  the  tibia  and  the  fibula. 

Gaines  and  Reid  (1976)  from  Brooke  Army  Medical  Center  in  Texas  reported 
on  44  infected  nonunions  of  the  tibia  treated  by  posterolateral  bone  grafting. 
Twenty-three  of  these  patients  had  established  osteomyelitis  at  the  time  of  opera¬ 
tion  but  were  free  of  drainage.  Twelve  wounds  were  actively  draining  anteriorly  at 
the  time  of  the  surgery.  Following  insertion  of  the  graft,  the  operative  wounds  were 
allowed  to  heal  by  secondary  intention,  and  weightbearing  ambulation  was  started 
within  a  few  days  of  surgery.  Union  occurred  in  all  cases  and  drainage  ceased  in  9  of 
12  that  were  actively  draining  at  the  time  of  surgery. 

From  Letterman  Army  Medical  Center  in  San  Francisco,  Freeland  and  Mutz 
(1976)  described  a  similar  series  of  23  infected  nonunions  treated  by  posterolateral 
bone  grafting.  At  the  time  of  their  operations  12  patients  had  actively  draining 
wounds.  Of  these  23  cases,  all  patients  achieved  bony  union.  Wounds  that  were  ac¬ 
tively  draining  in  10  other  patients  at  the  time  of  surgery  ceased  drainage  following 
the  operation  and  union.  As  in  earlier  series  (Hanson  and  Eppright  1966;  Harmon 
1945;  Jones  and  Barnett  1955),  these  surgical  wounds,  created  when  the  posterolat¬ 
eral  bone  graft  was  applied,  were  allowed  to  heal  by  secondary  intention,  and  weight¬ 
bearing  ambulation  in  a  long-leg  cast  was  started  within  a  few  days  postoperatively. 

In  certain  cases  of  open  injury  of  the  leg,  large  gaps  were  left  in  the  tibial  shaft, 
with  or  without  an  intact  fibula.  Nevertheless,  although  high  degrees  of  comminu¬ 
tion  frequently  accompany  high-energy  missile  injuries,  loss  of  bone  substance  was 
usually  minimal.  Moll  and  Willhoite  (1970)  commented  that,  while  the  wounding 
agent  might  cause  actual  bone  loss,  the  usual  cause  for  bone  loss  was  overdebride¬ 
ment  of  the  bone  at  the  time  of  the  initial  surgery.  To  avoid  these  large  gaps,  sur¬ 
geons  should  place  continuing  emphasis  on  saving  all  bone,  even  without  attached 
soft  tissue.  Even  though  necrotic,  these  fragments  add  some  immediate  support  and 
act  as  a  scaffolding  for  future  bone  formation.  If  sepsis  becomes  a  problem,  these 
loose  pieces  of  bone  can  be  sequestered,  as  dictated  by  the  host. 

When  large  bone  gaps  were  encountered,  management  of  the  wound  varied  with 
the  state  of  soft  tissue  injury.  Wound  management  of  the  patient  with  normal  nerve 
and  vessel  function  in  the  foot,  a  good  functional  calf,  and  good  posterior  skin  dif¬ 
fered  considerably  from  that  of  a  patient  with  a  stiff  anesthetic  foot  and  poor  muscu- 


48 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


PENETRATING  WOUNDS  OF  THE  LEG 


49 


Figure  14. — An  open  fracture  with  exposed  bone  and  contralateral  above-knee  ampu¬ 
tation.  Within  one  year,  wound  closure  and  fracture  union  were  accomplished  with 
weight-bearing  ambulation. 


50 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  15. — A  middle  one-third  tibia  bone  loss 
problem  was  managed  by  multiple  debride¬ 
ments.  Subsequently  a  fibular  shaft  with  inter¬ 
nal  fixation,  supplemented  with  additional 
bone,  gave  a  healed  fracture  without  infection. 


PENETRATING  WOUNDS  OF  THE  LEG 


51 


52 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


lature  in  the  leg.  If  the  patient's  foot  and  soft  tissue  in  the  leg  were  in  reasonably 
good  condition  so  that  amputation  was  initially  ruled  out,  the  problem  could  be  ap¬ 
proached  in  two  ways.  The  most  obvious  approach  was  controlled  shortening.  If 
shortening  of  two  inches  allowed  bone  contact,  this  was  certainly  preferable  to  main¬ 
taining  full  length  and  creating  a  bone  loss  nonunion.  Certainly  with  only  marginal 
soft  tissues  in  the  leg,  this  was  proper  procedure.  Since  most  surgeons  would  not  ac¬ 
cept  more  than  two  inches  of  shortening,  for  a  loss  greater  than  this,  some  type  of 
bone  grafting  was  necessary.  Huntington's  fibular  shift  (Huntington  1905;  Wilson 
1941),  although  adding  additional  instability  by  fibular  section,  was  used,  in  some 
cases,  to  manage  the  problem  of  the  tibial  shaft  loss  with  the  intact  fibula  (fig.  15). 
This  fibular  shift  was  augmented  by  additional  cortical  cancellous  iliac  graft  and 
served  as  one  approach  to  the  management  of  the  loss  of  tibial  shaft.  The  creation  of 
a  proximal  and  distal  tibial  fibular  synostosis  by  using  cortical  cancellous  graft  was 
also  effective.  Both  of  these  procedures  avoided  poor  skin  and  scar  anteriorly, 
placed  the  bone  graft  in  the  best  vascular  bed  (that  is,  the  well  vascularized  posterior 
calf  muscles),  and  allowed  continuing  functional  activity.  The  persistence  of  anterior 
drainage  was  no  deterrent  to  these  posterolateral  procedures. 

RECOMMENDATIONS 

The  penetrating  injury  to  the  leg  with  associated  tibial  fracture  should  be  man¬ 
aged  by  wound  exploration  and  debridement,  as  indicated.  Wound  closure  by  tissue 
shifts  or  transfer  from  a  distance  is  generally  not  required  even  though  there  may 
be  actual  soft  tissue  loss  at  the  fracture  site.  Secondary  intention  wound  healing  will 
occur  beneath  a  functional  plaster  cast.  The  single  most  important  factor  in  the 
management  of  the  open  tibial  fracture  is  early,  adequate  wound  debridement,  fol¬ 
lowed  by  the  return  of  leg  function  through  weightbearing  ambulation  in  a  plaster 
cast.  Exposure  of  bone  or  fracture  site  is  no  indication  to  alter  the  treatment  plan. 
Nonunion  with  or  without  infection  can  be  managed  successfully  in  almost  all  cases 
by  posterolateral  bone  grafting.  Union  in  these  cases  frequently  may  bring  about 
cessation  of  drainage  from  the  fracture  site.  The  most  widely  used  method  of  man¬ 
agement  of  the  open  tibial  fracture  in  the  Vietnam  War  consisted  of  meticulous 
wound  debridement  and  wound  exploration,  the  application  of  a  functional  plaster 
cast  as  soon  as  possible,  and  the  institution  of  weightbearing  ambulation,  also  as 
soon  as  possible.  These  wounds  were  allowed  to  heal  by  secondary  intention.  The 
precepts  of  closed  plaster  treatment  followed  in  the  Vietnam  War  were  those  advo¬ 
cated  by  Trueta  (1976)  before  and  during  World  War  II. 

REFERENCES 

Brown,  R  W.  1973.  The  open  fracture.  Clin.  Ortliop.  96:254-65. 

- .  1974.  The  early  weightbearing  treatment  of  tibial  shaft  fractures.  105:167-78. 

Brown,  P.W.,  and  Urban,  J.  G.  1969.  Early  weightbearing  treatment  of  open  frac¬ 
tures  of  the  tibia.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  (Am)  51:59-75. 

Burkhalter,  W.  E.,  and  Protzman,  R.  1975.  The  tibial  shaft  fracture.  J.  Trauma 

15:785-94. 


PENETRATING  WOUNDS  OF  THE  LEG 


53 


CINCPAC-1.  1967.  Commander  in  Chief,  Pacific.  First  CINCPAC  Conference  on 
War  Surgery.  Tri-service  conference  conducted  at  John  Hay  Air  Base,  Baguio, 
the  Philippines,  20-25  May  1967. 

Cleveland,  M.,  ed.  1956.  Orthopedic  surgery  in  the  European  Theater  of  Operations. 
Office  of  the  Surgeon  General,  Department  of  the  Army.  Washington:  GPO. 

Cleveland  and  Shands,  A.  R.,  eds.  1986.  Orthopedic  surgery  in  the  Zone  of  Interior. 
Office  of  the  Surgeon  General.  Department  of  the  Army.  Washington:  GPO. 

Dehne,  E.  1969.  Treatment  of  fractures  of  the  tibial  shaft.  Clin.  Orthop.  66:159-73. 

- .  1974.  Ambulatory  treatment  of  the  fractured  tibia.  Clin.  Orthop.  105:192-201. 

Dehne,  E.;  Deffer,  P.  A.;  Hall,  R.  M.;  Brown,  P.  W.;  and  Johnson,  E.  V.  1961a.  The 
natural  history  of  the  fractured  tibia.  Surg.  Clin.  (N  Am)  41:1495-513. 

Dehne,  E.;  Metz,  C.  W.;  Deffer,  P.A.;  and  Hall,  R.  M.  1961b.  Non-operative  treat¬ 
ment  of  the  fractured  tibia  by  immediate  weightbearing.  J.  Trauma  1:514-35. 

Ellis,  H.  1958.  Disabilities  after  tibial  shaft  fractures.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint 
Surgery  (Br)  40:190-97. 

Freeland,  A.  E.,  and  Mutz,  S.  B.  1976.  Posterior  bone-grafting  for  infected  ununited 
fracture  of  the  tibia.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  (Am)  58:653-57. 

Gaines,  J.  H.,  and  Reid,  R.  L.  1976.  Salvage  of  the  infected  tibial  non-union.  Jour¬ 
nal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  (Am)  58:723. 

Hanson,  L.  W.,  and  Eppright,  R.  H.  1966.  Posterior  bone-grafting  of  the  tibia  for 
non-union.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  (Am)  48:27-43. 

Hampton,  O.  P.  Jr.  1957.  Orthopedic  surgery  in  the  Mediterranean  Theater  of  Oper¬ 
ations.  Mather  Cleveland,  ed.  Office  of  The  Surgeon  General,  Department  of 
the  Army.  Washington:  GPO. 

Harmon,  P.  H.  1945.  A  simplified  surgical  approach  to  the  posterior  tibia  for  bone-graft¬ 
ing  and  fibular  transference.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  (Am)  27:496-98. 

Huntington,  T.  W.  1905.  Case  of  bone  transference:  use  of  a  segment  of  fibula  to 
supply  a  defect  in  the  tibia.  Ann.  Surg.  41:249-51. 

Jones,  K.  G.,  and  Barnett,  H.  C.  1955.  Cancellous-bone  grafting  for  non-union  of 
the  tibia  through  the  posterolateral  approach.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Sur¬ 
gery  (Am)  37:1250-60. 

Kelly,  R.  P,  and  Whitesides,  T.  E.,  Jr.  1967.  Transfibular  route  for  fasciotomy  of  the 
leg.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  (Am)  49:  1022-23. 

MD-WW.  1927.  The  Medical  Department  of  the  United  States  Army  in  the  world 
war.  vol.  11,  pt.  1.  Washington:  GPO. 

Moll,  J.  H.,  and  Willhoite,  D.  R.  1970.  Long-bone  defects  due  to  missile  injury.  Jour¬ 
nal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  (Am)  52:835-36. 

Owen,  R„  and  Tsimboukis,  B.  1965.  Incidence  of  ischaemic  contracture  following 
closed  injuries  to  the  calf.  Journal  of  Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  (Br)  47:184. 

Sarmiento,  A.  1967.  A  functional  below-the-knee  cast  for  tibial  fractures.  Journal  of 
Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  (Am)  49:855-75. 

Schmitt,  H.  J.,  Jr.,  and  Armstrong,  R.  G.  1970.  Wounds  causing  loss  of  limb.  Surg. 
Gynecol.  Obstet.  130:682-84. 

Trueta,  J.  1976.  Reflections  on  the  past  and  present  treatment  of  war  wounds  and 
fractures.  Military  Medicine  141:255-58. 

Wilson,  P.  D.  1941.  A  simple  method  of  two-stage  transplantation  of  the  fibula  for 
use  in  cases  of  complicated  and  congenital  pseudarthrosis  of  the  tibia.  Journal  of 
Bone  and  Joint  Surgery  (Am)  23:639-75. 

Witschi,  T.  H.,  and  Omer,  G.  E„  Jr.  1970.  The  treatment  of  open  tibial  shaft  frac¬ 
tures  from  Vietnam  war.  J.  Trauma  10:105-11. 


4 


Wounds  of  the  Hand 

Colonel  William  E.  Burkhalter,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 

The  hand  wound  is  unique  in  military  surgery.  The  wound  is  not  mortally  danger¬ 
ous,  but  without  meticulous  care,  it  can  be  the  source  of  considerable  disability  for 
years.  Because  hand  wounds  are  not  life  threatening,  the  priority  for  evacuation  and 
early  surgery  is  low.  In  the  patient  with  multiple  injuries,  a  hand  wound  is  treated 
after  lifesaving  surgery  has  been  performed,  the  normal  procedure  in  both  military 
and  civilian  hospitals.  About  15  percent  of  combat-incurred  injuries  have  a  hand  in¬ 
jury  alone  or  associated  with  injuries  to  other  limbs,  the  abdomen,  or  the  chest  (Bun¬ 
nell  1955,  20).  Despite  the  relative  benignity  of  the  wound,  injury  to  the  hand,  wrist, 
or  distal  forearm  is  of  considerable  interest  to  military  surgeons  because  a  soldier  is 
militarily  useless  without  use  of  his  hands.  Thus,  these  lightly  wounded  personnel  may 
be  the  source  of  great  loss  of  manpower  and  utilize  many  military  medical  resources. 

DEVELOPMENT  OF  ARMY  HAND  SURGERY* 

Wounds  of  the  hand  have  been  a  common  problem  for  the  military  surgeon  for 
some  time.  Maj.  Gen.  George  E.  Armstrong,  former  Surgeon  General  of  the  Army, 
pointed  out  that  in  the  Civil  War  (1861-65)  hand  wounds  numbered  approximately 
one-ninth  of  wounds  recorded  in  the  Union  Army  (Bunnell  1955,  v).  Approxi¬ 
mately  15,200  flesh  wounds  of  the  hand  and  12,865  fractures  of  the  hand  and  wrist 
bones  caused  by  shot  injury  were  recorded.  Despite  this  high  incidence,  hand 
wounds  received  little  special  attention.  In  the  official  Medical  and  Surgical  History 
of  the  War  of  the  Rebellion  (MSHWR  1876),  only  six  pages  are  devoted  to  hand 
wounds  and  operations  and  an  additional  twenty-four  pages  to  wrist  wounds  and 
operations,  a  pattern  that  continued  in  World  War  I.  In  the  volume  published  in 
1927  that  describes  the  Medical  Department  of  the  U.S.  Army  in  World  War  I, 
fewer  than  500  lines  cover  the  subject  of  hand  injuries  (MD-WW  1927). 

By  World  War  II,  however,  with  the  increasing  specialization  of  American 
medicine,  some  surgeons  began  to  concentrate  on  wounds  of  the  hand,  which  com¬ 
prised  a  substantial  portion  of  all  wounds.  One  estimate  indicates  that  of  the 
592,170  persons  wounded  and  injured  in  action  during  World  War  II,  148,042  (25 
percent)  incurred  upper  extremity  wounds  and  88,825  (15  percent)  had  wounds  or 
injuries  which  affected  the  hand.  Some  22,000  injured  hands  were  treated  in  hospi¬ 
tals  in  the  Zone  of  Interior  (Bunnell  1955,  17-75). 

One  surgeon  particularly  interested  in  hand  wounds  was  Dr.  Sterling  Bunnell. 
In  November  1944,  Bunnell  began  the  first  of  a  series  of  eight  tours  of  the  nine 


*Raymond  M.  Curtis.  M.D.,  contributed  to  this  section. 


56 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


hand  centers  in  the  Zone  of  Interior.  In  the  fall  of  1945,  despite  the  fact  that  the 
centers  were  at  the  peak  of  their  activity  and  surgeons  assigned  to  them  were  oper¬ 
ating  on  933  patients  a  month,  he  found  the  centers  had  few  hand  surgeons  (Bun¬ 
nell  1945).  Nonetheless,  out  of  these  hand  centers  came  the  impetus  for  the  devel¬ 
opment  of  this  important  specialty  of  surgery. 

Dr.  Bunnell's  visits  allowed  him  to  put  surgeons  interested  in  hand  surgery  in  con¬ 
tact  with  each  other.  In  the  fall  of  1945,  Drs.  S.  Benjamin  Fowler,  Robert  Payne,  Dar¬ 
rel  T.  Shaw,  and  George  Van  O.  Webster  met  in  the  quarters  of  Dr.  Joseph  H.  Boyes 
at  the  Newton  D.  Baker  General  Hospital  to  discuss  the  formation  of  a  hand  group. 
On  20  January  1946,  the  American  Society  for  Surgery  of  the  Hand  was  organized  in 
Chicago,  with  thirty-five  founding  members  present  (Curtis  1971;  Reid  1979). 

After  World  War  II,  when  residency  training  programs  in  orthopedics  and  plas¬ 
tic  surgery  were  established,  the  need  to  include  training  in  hand  surgery  was  ap¬ 
parent.  The  outbreak  of  the  Korean  War  once  again  demonstrated  the  need  for 
hand  surgeons,  but  the  Army  found  hand  specialists  in  short  supply.  Only  a  few 
Regular  Army  officers  had  been  assigned  to  the  hand  centers  during  World  War  II, 
and  the  last  of  the  centers,  Letterman  Army  General  Hospital  in  San  Francisco,  had 
discharged  its  last  hand  patient  in  1948.  The  solution  was  to  appoint  civilians,  many 
of  whom  had  served  during  World  War  II  in  the  hand  centers,  as  consultants  to  the 
general  hospitals.  One  particular  center  of  hand  work  was  Valley  Forge  General 
Hospital,  Pennsylvania,  where  Dr.  J.  William  Littler,  who  had  been  a  surgeon  in  a 
hand  center  during  World  War  II,  acted  as  civilian  consultant,  assisting  Capt.  Erie 
E.  Peacock,  Jr.,  MC.  Despite  the  obvious  need  for  hand  specialists,  a  hand  service 
was  not  organized  at  Walter  Reed  General  Hospital  until  1960,  when  Col.  John  D. 
Blair,  MC,  then  chief  of  orthopedics  at  Walter  Reed,  assigned  Lt.  Col.  Charles  W. 
Metz,  Jr.,  assistant  chief  of  orthopedics,  the  duty  of  establishing  a  hand  service  and 
a  one-year  fellowship  in  hand  surgery.  To  assist  in  the  organization  of  this  program. 
The  Surgeon  General,  Lt.  Gen.  Leonard  D.  Heaton,  appointed  Dr.  Raymond  M. 
Curtis  Consultant  in  Hand  Surgery  to  The  Surgeon  General  on  31  May  1960. 

Although  the  hand  service  at  Walter  Reed  was  a  part  of  the  orthopedic  service,  this 
special  year  of  training  was  open  to  any  Army  medical  officer.  The  orthopedic  service 
was  staffed  so  that  one  officer,  after  completing  his  fellowship,  remained  as  the  assis¬ 
tant  chief  of  orthopedics  and  the  chief  of  the  hand  service,  thus  providing  continuity 
within  the  hand  service  and  the  supervision  and  teaching  needed  for  each  new  fellow. 

The  program  was  organized  to  make  it  possible  to  train  enough  officers  with 
special  interest  and  expertise  in  hand  surgery  to  assign  one  to  each  general  hospital. 
By  1963  this  was  possible,  and  when  the  casualties  from  Vietnam  began  to  arrive, 
specialists  in  hand  surgery  were  available  at  each  general  hospital  to  manage  these 
difficult  problems.  By  1979,  thirty-six  Army  Medical  Corps  officers  had  completed 
the  fellowship  in  hand  surgery  at  Walter  Reed  (Reid  1979). 

General  Management  of  Hand  Wounds 

As  a  rule,  hand  wounds  in  the  Republic  of  Vietnam  were  initially  managed  by  a 
fully  or  partially  trained  orthopedic  surgeon  with  an  interest  in  hand  surgery,  who,  if  he 
had  no  formal  training  in  hand  surgery,  was  supervised  or  assisted  by  a  surgeon  with 
special  interest  or  training.  Initial  wound  management  began  in  the  triage  area  with 


WOUNDS  OF  THE  HAND 


57 


Figure  16. — A  blast  injury  to  hand  with  skin  and  bone  loss.  Initial  wound  debridement 
was  followed  by  reexploration  in  four  days.  Redebridement  was  required,  followed  by 
arthrodesis  of  interphalangeal  joint  of  long  finger  and  wound  closure.  Function  was  in¬ 
stituted  seven  days  after  injury. 


58 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


WOUNDS  OF THE  HAND 


59 


60 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


examination  of  the  hand  and  forearm  for  nerve,  vascular,  or  tendon  injury  and  the  ap¬ 
plication  of  a  simple  wound  dressing.  At  this  time,  because  the  low  priority  for  hand 
surgery  led  to  delays  in  operating  on  these  wounds,  the  hand  was  elevated  and  splinted 
to  minimize  swelling.  Usually  penicillin  and  tetanus  prophylaxis  were  administered.  A 
radiographic  examination  of  the  hand  at  this  time  was  extremely  important  so  that 
fractures,  foreign  bodies,  and  dislocations  could  be  diagnosed  prior  to  surgery.  Most 
injuries  of  the  distal  portion  of  the  upper  extremity  had  tendon,  bone,  and  joint  in¬ 
volvement,  as  well  as  associated  dislocations.  Basilar  joint  of  the  thumb  and  inter- 
carpal  or  carpometacarpal  dislocations  occurred  from  the  penetrating  injury  or  from 
the  fall  following  the  wounding.  In  the  triage  area,  roentgenograms  done  in  two  planes 
to  determine  the  extent  of  bone  and  joint  injury  frequently  disclosed  large  metallic 
fragments,  such  as  pieces  of  shell  casing  and  spent  bullets,  lodged  in  the  tissues. 

In  the  operating  room,  the  wound  was  examined  with  a  pneumatic  tourniquet  in 
place  for  temporary  hemostasis,  adequate  light,  and  either  general  or  axillary  block 
anesthesia.  Initially,  the  surgeon  focused  on  the  meticulous  cleaning  of  the  skin  and 
fingernails  to  reduce  foreign  body  and  bacteria  contamination.  After  satisfactory 
preparation,  the  wound  was  explored.  The  majority  of  hand  wounds  required  exten¬ 
sion  into  physiological  incisions  for  exposure  of  damaged  structures  and  for  the  pro¬ 
tection  of  undamaged  structures  during  wound  debridement.  Additional  incisions 
for  exposure  included  opening  the  carpal  tunnel  to  protect  the  median  nerve  and  its 
branches  during  debridement  of  proximal  palmar  injuries.  In  crushing  wounds,  in¬ 
trinsic  muscle  decompression  was  performed  through  small  dorsal  longitudinal  inci¬ 
sions.  These  incisions  extended  into  the  intermetacarpal  spaces  and  decompressed 
these  closed  spaces  between  the  metacarpal  shafts.  The  status  of  injured  structures 
was  noted  in  the  operative  records,  and  surgical  extensions  were  described. 

Leaving  the  wound  open  after  the  initial  debridement  allowed  the  surgeon  to  reex¬ 
amine  the  tissues  in  three  to  seven  days  (fig.  16).  At  that  time,  viable  and  nonviable 
muscle  could  be  distinguished  more  easily,  and  decisions  about  future  management 
could  be  made.  Debridement  of  intrinsic  muscle  resulted  in  considerable  loss  of  func¬ 
tion  and  was  avoided,  if  possible,  during  staged  wound  management.  However,  this  did 
not  imply  that  the  initial  exploration  and  debridement  were  unimportant.  If  the  initial 
surgery  failed  to  clean  the  wound  thoroughly,  the  second  procedure  would  inevitably 
involve  debridement  of  a  wound  that  would  probably  become  infected.  Therefore,  ini¬ 
tial  surgery  guidelines  called  for  minimal  skin  debridement  and  generous  fascial  exci¬ 
sion.  Bone,  tendons,  nerves,  and  blood  vessels  were  preserved,  and  only  nonviable 
muscle  was  excised.  Questionable  tissue  was  left  to  await  a  second-look  procedure.  Al¬ 
though  Bunnell,  in  World  War  II,  had  maintained  that  hand  wounds  should  be  closed 
immediately  after  wound  debridement,  in  Vietnam,  highly  contaminated  hand  wounds 
were  not  closed  at  the  time  of  the  initial  wound  surgery  but  were  managed  like  other 
wounds.  This  procedure  proved  best  in  literally  hundreds  of  cases  (Burkhalter  et  al. 
1968;  Butler  1969;  Jabaley  and  Peterson  1973;  Churchill  1944;  Cutler  1945). 

After  complete  wound  exploration  and  debridement,  as  indicated,  the  hand  was 
rendered  surgically  clean  in  the  operating  room.  The  wound  was  then  dressed  with 
tine  mesh  gauze  and  an  occlusive  dressing  that  offered  gentle  compression  by  fluffs 
placed  between  individual  fingers,  helped  avoid  swelling,  supported  the  wounded 
parts,  and  positioned  the  thumb  in  opposition  to  avoid  stiffness  in  a  nonfunctional 
position.  A  plaster  splint  stabilized  the  wrist.  A  piece  of  stockinette,  triangular  ban- 


WOUNDS  OF  THE  HAND 


61 


Figure  17. _ This  patient  had  previous  index  ray  excision  for  injury  to  index  finger.  The 

patient  sustained  a  through-and-through  high-velocity  wound  of  the  hand  treated  by 
debridement,  followed  in  six  days  by  stabilization  with  spacer  wires  and  wound  closure. 
Within  nine  days  after  injury,  function  was  instituted.  Motion  at  twelve  days  after  injury. 


62 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


WOUNDS  OF  THE  HAND 


63 


dage,  or  muslin  was  fashioned  into  a  sling  to  maintain  elevation  with  the  elbow  sup¬ 
ported  and  without  constriction.  Elevation  was  unremitting  either  in  the  sling  while 
asleep  or  by  the  use  of  the  patient’s  own  musculature. 

After  initial  surgery,  the  patient  with  a  hand  injury  was  ready  for  evacuation  ei¬ 
ther  to  an  evacuation  hospital  in  the  Republic  of  Vietnam  or  to  an  offshore  hospi¬ 
tal.  His  evacuation  priority  was  based  on  medical  preference,  the  tactical  situation, 
and  his  associated  injuries.  Ideally,  no  matter  where  he  was  sent,  the  occlusive 
dressing  was  maintained  in  place  for  three  to  seven  days.  The  patient  was  then 
placed  under  anesthesia  in  an  operating  room  for  a  second  wound  exploration.  In 
this  procedure,  the  surgeon  at  an  evacuation  or  offshore  hospital,  rather  than  the 
original  surgeon,  searched  for  nonviable  muscle,  loose  bone,  necrotic  fascia,  and 
foreign  bodies.  When  the  wound  was  free  of  necrotic  tissue  and  foreign  debris 
through  debridement  and  inspection,  the  surgeon  planned  the  reconstruction.  The 
first  consideration  was  skeletal  stability.  With  minimal  degrees  of  comminution,  in¬ 
ternal  fixation  of  fractures  with  a  small  Kirschner  wire  gave  the  stability  necessary 
for  early  action  motion.  Dislocation,  in  addition  to  fracture,  sometimes  gave  insta¬ 
bility  to  the  hand.  The  two  most  commonly  noted  and  frequently  missed  disloca¬ 
tions  were  at  the  basilar  thumb  joint  and  the  carpometacarpal  joint,  either  of  the 
two  ulnar-most  digits  or  all  the  carpometacarpal  joints  of  the  hand.  The  severe  soft 
tissue  wound  plus  the  dynamics  of  the  dislocation  made  internal  fixation  with 
Kirschner  wires  almost  mandatory  after  reduction  of  the  dislocation.  Loss  of  reduc¬ 
tion  during  subsequent  operative  procedures  or  during  evacuation  was  sometimes 
associated  with  considerable  morbidity  and  functional  loss. 

If  bone  loss  was  present  or  comminution  was  extensive,  spacer  wires  applied  to 
the  metacarpals  could  be  used  to  maintain  metacarpal  length  and  give  stability. 


64 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


These  spacer  wires  were  created  by  the  operating  surgeon  at  the  operating  table. 
Proximally  the  wire  was  placed  in  the  medullary  canal  of  the  proximal  portion  of 
the  metacarpal  fracture  and  bent  at  90  degrees  at  the  fracture  or  bone  loss  site  so 
that  the  wire  then  abutted  on  the  cortex.  Another  90  degree  bend  was  made  back  to 
the  original  plane  of  the  wire.  These  two  90  degree  bends  allowed  cortical  abut¬ 
ment.  The  bone  loss  length  system  dictated  the  next  90  degree  bend  in  the  wire  dis- 
tally  at  the  area  of  cortical  bone  and  then  another  90  degrees  so  that  it  went  in  the 
medullary  canal  of  the  bone  distally.  If  this  was  in  the  cancellous  head,  longitudinal 
traction  on  the  finger  could  bring  about  increase  in  length  and  then  the  wire  could 
be  snapped  into  position.  Generally,  two  or  more  of  these  0.045  inch  Kirschner 
wires  crossed  obliquely  could  be  used  to  maintain  length,  and  additional  wires  in¬ 
creased  necessary  stability.  Although  the  term  “spacer  wire”  has  been  used,  the 
major  usefulness  of  these  devices  lay  in  achieving  skeletal  stability  so  that  even  in  a 
bone  loss  situation  active  motion  could  be  instituted  (fig.  17). 

Although  there  was  a  temptation  to  perform  tendon  and  nerve  repairs  in  a  wound 
that  was  clean  and  ready  for  closure,  the  explosive  injury  with  widespread  multitissue 
damage  throughout  the  hand  did  not  lend  itself  to  this  type  of  surgery.  Further  trauma 
and  immobilization  were  not  needed  in  the  hand  with  such  widespread  damage.  Thus, 
at  the  secondary  operative  procedure,  tendon  and  nerve  repair  was  not  generally  car¬ 
ried  out.  The  emphasis  was  placed  on  achieving  a  surgically  clean  wound  that  would 
accept  closure  without  the  development  of  infection  but  with  stable  skeletal  structures. 

Finger  and  thumb  amputations  or  partial  hand  loss  generally  occurred  at  the 
time  of  wounding.  The  initial  wound  surgeon,  therefore,  performed  only  initial 
wound  exploration  and  debridement  of  a  traumatic  amputation  rather  than  ampu¬ 
tation  surgery.  Unfortunately,  at  the  initial  surgery,  there  was  a  tendency  to  remove 
nonfunctional  but  viable  tissue.  Obviously,  in  the  hand  with  multiple  injuries,  all  vi¬ 
able  tissue  should  be  preserved.  Fingers  that  are  useless  but  have  skeletal  structures 
supporting  usable  tissues  should  be  maintained  at  the  initial  wound  surgery.  Re¬ 
moval  of  skeletal  stability  at  the  time  of  the  initial  wound  surgery  results  in  loss  of 
skin  support  and,  if  for  any  reason  wound  closure  could  not  be  carried  out  on 
schedule,  the  skin  would  shrink  and  lose  its  usefulness  as  a  covering  agent.  At  the 
time  of  the  second  look,  finger  filleting  could  be  done  and  wound  closure  achieved 
with  skin  that  had  been  under  normal  tension  just  a  few  minutes  before. 

Wound  closure  is  an  elective  operative  procedure  that  should  be  carried  out 
when  the  wound  is  free  of  necrotic  tissue  and  foreign  bodies  and  has  a  low  bacterial 
count.  Clinically,  in  most  situations,  the  surgeon  carrying  out  wound  closures  at  the 
second  look  determined  the  absence  of  necrotic  tissue  and  foreign  bodies  by  inspec¬ 
tion  because  lack  of  resources  generally  prohibited  bacterial  counts.  Methods  of 
closure  usually  used  were  direct  suture,  split-thickness  skin  graft,  or  finger  fillet.  If 
skin  loss  was  a  problem,  split-thickness  skin  graft,  with  or  without  meshing,  was  car¬ 
ried  out.  Surgeons  avoided  local  tissue  shifts  within  the  hand,  volarly  or  dorsally, 
because  infection  and  poor  blood  supply  might  result  in  loss  of  transposed  tissue. 
Wound  closure  failures  occurred  in  the  hand,  as  in  other  parts  of  the  body,  because 
of  dead  space,  lack  of  drainage,  or  closure  under  tension.  Delayed  primary  closure 
of  hand  wounds  was  successful  in  95  to  98  percent  of  the  cases  (fig.  18). 

Certain  explosive  wounds  required  pedicle  tissue  from  a  distance  for  wound  clo¬ 
sure.  If  so,  following  the  initial  wound  surgery,  the  patient  should  have  been  evacuated 


WOUNDS  OF  THE  HAND 


65 


Figure  18. — Multiple  open  fractures  with  skin  loss.  Five  days  after  debridement,  inter¬ 
nal  fixation  of  the  fractures  was  accomplished.  The  wounds  were  closed  by  split-thick¬ 
ness  skin  grafts.  Peritenon  covering  the  extensor  tendons  supported  the  revasculariza¬ 
tion  of  the  split-thickness  skin  graft. 


66 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


WOUNDS  OF  THE  HAND 


67 


immediately  to  a  fixed  facility  with  considerable  holding  capability  where  the  proce¬ 
dure  could  be  carried  out  under  ideal  circumstances.  In  those  cases  where  this  was  not 
done  and  abdominal  pedicle  flaps  were  applied  in  Vietnam  at  the  time  of  the  initial 
surgery  or  at  the  time  of  the  second  look,  difficult  problems  occurred  postoperatively 
for  the  patient,  the  physician,  and  the  hospital  staff.  Because  of  time  lost  during  evacu¬ 
ation  and  lack  of  good  management  during  the  evacuation  process,  patients  leaving 
Vietnam  with  abdominal  pedicle  flaps  in  place  usually  arrived  at  their  destinations 
with  low  grade  wound  infections,  edematous  stiff  hands,  considerable  discomfort  in 
the  shoulder  and  elbow,  displaced  dressings,  and  flaps  frequently  lost  because  of  dis¬ 
placed  dressings  or  tension  (Butler  1969).  If  the  patient  required  pedicle  flap  coverage, 
the  procedure  should  have  been  carried  out  in  a  delayed  primary  fashion  that  would 
have  allowed  evacuation  of  the  patient  to  an  offshore  or  a  more  permanent  facility  and 
permitted  a  second  look  before  wound  closure.  Then,  after  surgeons  removed  necrotic 
tissue  and  foreign  bodies,  the  flap  could  be  applied.  Ideally,  the  flap  was  applied  to  an 
optimally  debrided  wound.  Because  of  the  requirement  for  secondary  surgery,  flap 
coverage  as  the  method  of  closure  at  delayed  primary  time  usually  was  indicated  for 
dorsal  skin  and  tendon  loss,  with  or  without  fracture.  Thumb  web  space  and  palmar 
skin  loss  areas  accepted  split-thickness  skin  graft  closures  readily. 

Reconstructive  Surgery 

Reconstructive  surgery  of  the  combat-incurred  hand  injury  was  done  at  an  off¬ 
shore  hospital  or  in  the  United  States.  The  decision  to  evacuate  a  patient  who  still  had 
his  hand  in  the  initial  wound  dressing  was  based  on  patient  flow,  volume  of  cases,  and 
lack  of  associated  injuries  that  precluded  early  evacuation.  Some  patients  arrived  in 


68 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


continental  United  States  (CONUS),  often  within  two  weeks  of  injury,  with  their 
open  hand  wounds  in  the  dressings  applied  at  the  time  of  initial  wound  surgery. 
Within  CONUS,  these  patients  then  underwent  all  reparative  surgery,  such  as  reduc¬ 
tion  and  stabilization  of  fractures  or  fracture  dislocations  and  closing  of  wounds. 

The  timing  of  reconstruction  in  the  patient  with  a  penetrating  hand  injury  was  im¬ 
portant.  Achieving  a  closed  wound  with  minimal  tissue  reaction  and  with  a  stable 
skeleton  meant  that  rehabilitation  could  be  instituted.  Active  motion,  splintage  to  im¬ 
prove  overall  range  of  motion,  and  the  use  of  the  hand  in  activities  of  daily  living  and 
light  work  were  all  used  in  the  rehabilitation  effort.  Between  wound  closure  and  re¬ 
constructive  surgery,  the  aims  included  achievement  of  a  full  range  of  active  motion, 
passive  motion,  or  both;  absence  of  swelling;  and  giving  the  patient  the  ability  to  use 
whatever  hand  function  he  had  in  some  useful  endeavor.  Full  range  of  motion  meant 
no  contractures,  but  in  this  group  of  combat-injured  hand  patients,  achievement  of  a 
full  range  of  even  passive  motion  was  unlikely.  Some  residual  deformity  would  likely 
remain,  but  the  absence  of  swelling  and  the  hands  usefulness  and  relative  freedom 
from  pain  generally  indicated  readiness  for  reconstructive  procedures.  Even  today, 
regardless  of  the  type  of  reconstruction  contemplated,  the  criteria  indicated  above 
should  be  met  before  undertaking  a  reconstruction  operative  procedure.  Results  of 
premature  operative  procedures,  performed  too  close  to  the  time  of  the  initial 
wounding  and  when  the  hand  is  still  reactive,  often  failed,  discouraging  both  patient 
and  physician.  Waiting  too  long  was  preferable  to  operating  prematurely. 

Reconstructive  surgery  for  the  patient  with  a  complex  hand  injury  with  skin  loss 
usually  took  place  at  an  offshore  hospital  where  wound  exploration  or  skin  closure 
was  done.  The  most  obvious  methods  of  wound  closure  for  explosive  injuries,  were 
finger  fillet  or  split-thickness  skin  graft.  Postoperative  management  of  the  split¬ 
thickness  skin  graft  of  the  hand  usually  consisted  of  applying  an  occlusive  dressing 
for  four  to  six  days  with  subsequent  dressing  changes.  However,  the  irregular 
wound  surfaces,  perhaps  with  postoperative  bleeding  or  oozing,  frequently  compro¬ 
mised  the  overall  “take”  rate.  Because  of  the  limited  success  of  the  split-thickness 
graft,  the  hand  was  frequently  immobilized  for  many  days.  The  open  technique, 
which  had  been  so  successful  in  the  grafting  of  lower  extremity  wounds  (the  graft 
could  be  observed  frequently  and  rolled  back  to  keep  fluid  from  collecting  beneath 
it),  did  not  lend  itself  readily  to  hand  wounds  because  of  the  gross  irregularity  of  the 
surfaces  and  the  need  for  early  joint  motion. 

To  cover  burns.  Tanner,  Vandeput,  and  Olleg  (1964)  described  the  technique  of 
creating  mesh  out  of  split-thickness  skin  grafts  by  placing  parallel  cuts  to  increase 
the  graft  size.  The  Tanner- Vandeput  method  of  meshing  autogenous  skin  graft 
proved  well  suited  in  dealing  with  extensive  skin  loss  on  the  lower  extremity.  Mesh¬ 
ing  increased  the  graft  size.  The  high  “take”  rates  characteristic  of  this  technique 
seemed  to  be  related  to  its  inherent  drainage  characteristics,  its  tendency  to  con¬ 
form  well  to  the  irregular  surface,  and  its  rapid  adherence  to  the  recipient  site.  For 
the  same  reasons,  this  approach  promised  to  be  just  as  satisfactory  for  coverage  of 
open  hand  wounds  as  for  similar  injuries  in  the  lower  extremity.  Experience  proved 
that  the  ability  of  the  graft  to  conform  to  the  irregular  and  cavitary  type  of  hand 
wound  plus  the  drainage  characteristic  made  this  an  excellent  method  of  obtaining 
wound  closure  in  a  complex  explosive  injury.  Moreover,  the  rapid  adherence  of  the 
graft  to  the  recipient  shortened  immobility  time  following  grafting. 


WOUNDS  OF  THE  HAND 


69 


Shaffers  experience  (1971)  with  mesh  skin  graft  in  the  hand  demonstrated  an 
average  “take  rate  of  93  percent.  He  believed  that  at  least  50  percent  of  these  pa¬ 
tients  did  not  require  a  further  operative  procedure,  either  for  cosmetic  or  func¬ 
tional  requirements.  That  is,  the  graft  was  satisfactory  and  did  not  have  to  be  re¬ 
placed  by  pedicle  tissue.  Mesh  grafts  adhered  more  quickly  than  sheet  grafts.  The 
decreased  period  of  immobility  to  achieve  wound  closure  prevented  loss  of  motion 
in  severely  damaged  hands  that  had  complex  disseminated  injuries.  Once  its  advan¬ 
tages  became  clear,  the  meshed  split-thickness  skin  graft  was  widely  used  to  achieve 
rapid  wound  closure  in  offshore  and  CONUS  hospitals. 

Secondary  intention  wound  healing  as  a  method  of  skin  closure  proved  effec¬ 
tive,  contrary  to  the  belief  of  many  authorities  that  allowing  hand  wounds  to  heal 
by  secondary  intention  brought  about  stiffness  and  loss  of  motion.  If  skin  loss  was 
considerable  and  if  the  hand  was  immobile  or  splinted  in  a  poor  position,  this  was 
indeed  true.  If  the  patient,  however,  was  capable  of  actively  moving  the  joints  and 
tendons,  stiffness  did  not  result,  regardless  of  the  status  of  the  skin  cover.  Certainly 
this  was  seen  in  the  patient  with  dorsal  burns  who  achieved  full  mobility  before  au¬ 
togenous  skin  grafting.  Active  motion  within  a  few  days  of  injury  was  the  key  to 
prevention  of  motion  loss  and  joint  stiffness,  and  it  was  much  easier  to  prevent  this 
condition  than  to  overcome  it,  once  established,  surgically  or  by  splintage.  In  cer¬ 
tain  instances  in  which  tendon  or  bone  work  was  necessary  to  overcome  fixed  de¬ 
formities,  pedicle  flap  coverage  from  a  distance  became  necessary.  For  years,  the 
classic  abdominal  pedicle  flap  or  thoracoabdominal  flap  to  give  fat  and  full-thick¬ 
ness  skin  had  been  the  standard  of  reconstruction  for  these  damaged  hands.  In 
1917,  Aymard  described  a  deltopectoral  flap  based  on  the  perforating  vessels  of  the 
internal  mammary  artery.  This  flap  was  used  for  nasal  reconstruction.  At  about  the 
time  of  the  outbreak  of  the  Vietnam  War,  Bakamjian  (1965)  promoted  a  similar  flap 
for  pharyngeal  and  esophageal  reconstruction.  McGregor  and  Jackson  (1970)  men¬ 
tioned  the  use  of  this  deltopectoral  flap  in  hand  surgery.  They  pointed  out  that  the 
flap  could  be  elevated  without  delay,  tubed  to  produce  a  closed  system,  and  rotated 
almost  180  degrees  upon  itself.  The  flap  could  be  made  long  enough  to  allow  skin 
coverage  on  either  the  palmar  or  the  dorsal  surface  of  the  hand  or  wrist.  In  addi¬ 
tion,  the  location  of  the  flap  in  the  deltopectoral  area  permitted  elevation  of  the 
hand  during  transfer  of  the  flap  (fig.  19).  The  tube  pedicle  provided  enough  free¬ 
dom  for  active  use  of  the  fingers  and  wrist  during  transfer  of  the  skin.  The  large 
donor  defect  in  the  chest  and  arm  was  the  only  real  deterrent  to  its  routine  use. 
Stein  and  Morgan  (1972)  presented  their  experience  at  Valley  Forge  General  Hos¬ 
pital  with  the  deltopectoral  flap  for  the  release  of  contractures,  for  resurfacing 
areas  of  skin  loss  both  volarly  and  dorsally,  and  as  an  effective  aid  in  osteoplastic  re¬ 
construction  of  the  thumb.  The  general  belief  of  many  hand  surgeons  in  CONUS 
was  that  the  deltopectoral  flap  was  extremely  usable  in  the  hand.  They  were  in 
agreement  with  McGregor  and  Jackson  (1970),  who  believed  that  the  deltopectoral 
flap  was  a  marked  functional  improvement  over  the  abdominal  pedicle  because  of 
the  quality  of  skin,  the  creation  of  the  tube  system  without  delay,  and  the  persistent 
elevation  of  the  hand  during  skin  transfer. 

Reconstructive  surgery  could  also  involve  bone  grafting,  which  was  frequently  neces¬ 
sary  after  penetrating  hand  trauma.  Extreme  degrees  of  comminution  and  bone  loss  sec¬ 
ondary  to  injury,  debridement,  or  both  usually  required  the  addition  of  bone  to  achieve 


70 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  19. — A  viable  but  unstable  index  finger  following  a  blast  injury  with  bilateral 
above-knee  amputations.  An  abdominal  flap  was  used  for  coverage  and  arthrodesis  of 
all  joints  of  the  index  finger  in  the  thumb  position  which  gave  excellent  function. 


WOUNDS  OF  THE  HAND 


71 


72 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


union.  These  bone  grafts  were  most  frequently  used  in  the  metacarpals  and  were  only 
rarely  necessary  in  the  phalanges.  Spacer  wires  in  the  metacarpals  of  the  fingers  gave  suf¬ 
ficient  stability  to  the  digits  so  that  active  motion  and  external  splintage,  if  necessary, 
could  be  instituted.  Once  these  wires  were  in  place,  there  was  no  immediate  requirement 
to  bone  graft  the  metacarpal  to  prevent  shortening.  In  single  metacarpal  injuries  of  the 
long  or  ring  finger,  bone  loss  did  not  usually  require  spacers  because  of  splintage  by  the 
metacarpals  on  adjacent  sides.  The  deep  intermetacarpal  ligaments  gave  stability  and 
prevented  shortening  to  a  significant  degree.  In  this  situation,  the  severity  of  the  soft  tis¬ 
sue  injury  and  the  ability  to  maintain  or  achieve  motion  in  the  digit  determined  whether 
bone  grafting  or  ray  amputation  was  the  appropriate  reconstructive  surgery.  The  iliac 
crest  was  the  most  widely  used  donor  site  for  bone  grafts  in  the  hand. 

Multiple  operative  procedures  in  the  severe  open  injury  that  required  insertion  of 
a  bone  graft  and  internal  fixation  of  the  graft  certainly  set  the  stage  for  development 
of  infection  because  cortical  bone  tolerates  sepsis  poorly  and  rarely  is  revascularized 
in  the  presence  of  infection.  The  osseous  tissue  obtained  from  the  iliac  crest  for  bone 
grafts  in  the  hand  could  be  both  cortical  and  cancellous  for  rapid  union  and  revascu¬ 
larization.  The  graft  could  then  be  either  tri-  or  bicortical,  depending  on  whether  both 
inner  and  outer  table  and  the  crest  were  removed.  The  graft  could  be  fashioned  easily 
to  fit  any  deformity.  Internal  fixation  with  Kirschner  wires  generally  gave  adequate 
stability  so  that  early  motion  could  be  instituted.  This  graft  would  be  incorporated 
even  in  the  presence  of  sepsis.  Generally,  cortical  cancellous  iliac  grafts  needed  only 
short  periods  of  protection  before  instituting  full  use  of  the  extremity  (fig.  20).  Patho¬ 
logic  fractures  of  the  graft,  as  might  be  encountered  in  cortical  bone,  were  not  seen. 

When  bone  grafting  to  replace  bone  loss,  if  the  length  of  bone  had  not  been 
maintained  during  the  interim  by  adjacent  metacarpals,  by  traction,  or  by  various 
types  of  spacer  wires,  no  attempt  was  made  to  regain  length  during  the  reconstruc¬ 
tive  operative  procedure.  Attempted  lengthening  following  weeks  or  months  of 
shortening  resulted  in  marked  tightening  of  the  intrinsic  muscle  tendon  unit  with 
subsequent  difficulty  in  finger  flexion  and  subluxation  or  dislocation  of  the 
metacarpophalangeal  joint. 


Tendon  Injury 

One  has  only  to  read  the  hand  surgery  volume  of  the  Medical  Department, 
United  States  Army,  Surgery  in  World  War  II  series  (Bunnell  1955)  to  realize  the 
serious  problem  posed  by  the  flexor  tendon  injury  from  1942  to  1946.  The  combina¬ 
tion  of  multiple  tissue  injuries,  generally  one  or  more  fractures,  sometimes  low- 
grade  sepsis,  and  often  delay  between  injury  and  surgery  compromised  the  overall 
result  in  this  group  of  patients.  The  wide  dissemination  of  injury  delayed  tissue 
equilibrium,  frequently  for  many  months.  The  association  of  tendon  injury,  scar  tis¬ 
sue  with  or  without  fracture,  and  nerve  injury  militated  against  achieving  a  good 
functional  result  from  free  graft  or  transfer. 

During  the  Vietnam  conflict,  two  approaches  were  used  to  restore  tendon  func¬ 
tion.  One,  basically,  was  the  complete  debridement  of  all  scar  tissue,  including  pulley 
tendon  remnants,  along  the  course  of  the  bed  to  be  grafted.  Skin  with  the  fat  was  then 
applied  to  the  underlying  bones  and  joints.  At  this  time,  joint  releases  or  nerve  grafts 
could  be  achieved.  Frequently  this  excision  of  tendons  and  their  remnants  resulted  in 


WOUNDS  OF THE  HAND 


73 


Figure  20.— This  patient  incurred  bone  loss  injury  to  first  metacarpal  with  resultant 
adduction  contracture  of  the  thumb.  In  addition  to  the  adduction  contracture,  note  the 
supination  deformity.  Note  the  amount  of  tissue  loss  when  the  thumb  is  properly  posi¬ 
tioned.  Bone  graft  in  place  with  thumb  position  by  K-wires  in  maximum  abduction. 
Coverage  of  the  defect  by  a  tailored  abdominal  flap  extending  into  the  palmar  surface 
of  the  hand.  The  raw  surface  of  the  carrier  is  covered  with  split-thickness  graft.  The  ul¬ 
timate  function  is  good,  but  bulk  is  excessive. 


74 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


WOUNDS  OF  THE  HAND 


75 


76 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


a  rather  marked  increase  in  the  passive  range  of  motion  of  the  digit.  When  the  finger 
was  believed  to  be  unreactive  and  ready  for  a  further  operative  procedure,  a  tendon 
graft  operation  was  carried  out  without  pulleys.  Rather  than  open  all  portions  of  the 
previous  incision,  the  tendon  in  these  areas  was  actually  burrowed  into  the  subcuta¬ 
neous  space  without  creating  formal  pulleys.  Three  to  four  weeks  after  the  tendon 
graft,  motion  was  instituted.  The  aim  was  to  use  either  removable  rings  or  the  pa¬ 
tient  s  finger  on  the  opposite  hand  to  act  as  temporary  pulleys  until  motion  within  the 
digit  was  achieved.  After  finger  motion  through  the  graft  was  achieved,  pulley  recon¬ 
struction  or  wearing  of  a  ring  for  a  prolonged  period  of  time  could  be  prescribed.  The 
results  were  variable,  and  the  process  took  many  months.  Usually  three  operative 
procedures  were  required  to  achieve  a  functional  digit  (Butler  et  al.  1968). 

Another  approach,  as  reported  by  Hunter  (1965),  required  Silastic  implants  and 
the  creation  of  artificial  tendon  sheaths.  These  implants  were  used  in  complex  in¬ 
juries  that  had  both  a  poor  tendon  bed  and  poor  tendon  substance.  Considerable 
difficulty  was  initially  encountered  with  the  implant  because  of  foreign  body  reac¬ 
tion,  infection,  and  the  development  of  synovitis.  However,  surgeons  were  eventu¬ 
ally  able  to  use  the  artificial  tendon  extensively  to  create  a  better  bed  for  tendon 
grafting  in  severely  damaged  hands.  The  artificial  tendon  was  placed  in  the  poor 
tendon  bed,  joint  releases  were  carried  out  as  indicated,  and  nerve  repairs  or  grafts 
done  at  the  same  time,  if  indicated.  Three  to  six  months  after  the  insertion  of  the  ar¬ 
tificial  tendon  and  achievement  of  a  functional  range  of  passive  motion,  a  tendon 
graft  was  pulled  into  the  artificial  sheath  and  anchored  proximally  and  distally.  This 
gave  more  predictable  results  than  the  scar  excision  technique  and  was  used  by 
many  surgeons  in  Army  hospitals  throughout  the  United  States. 


WOUNDS  OF  THE  HAND 


77 


The  Wrist 

The  wrist  is  the  key  to  hand  function  because  a  mobile  painless  wrist  is  required 
for  normal  hand  function.  Penetrating  injuries  of  the  carpus  and  the  distal  radius 
created  highly  localized  problems  that  compromised  hand  function  even  in  the  ab¬ 
sence  of  significant  tendon  or  nerve  injury.  The  penetrating  injury  in  this  area  of 
eight  carpal  bones  damaged  considerable  articular  surface  and  this,  coupled  with 
ligament  injury  and  bone  loss,  often  brought  about  intercarpal  subluxations  and 
dislocations.  In  addition,  because  of  the  proximity  of  bone  and  tendon  and  of  bone 
and  nerve  in  this  area,  foreign  bodies  and  bone  fragments  were  sometimes  dis¬ 
placed  into  the  carpal  tunnel,  where  they  caused  secondary  compression  of  the  me¬ 
dian  nerve  or  interference  with  flexor  tendon  gliding. 

In  Vietnam,  the  initial  management  of  the  penetrating  injury  of  the  wrist  was 
similar  to  that  of  other  hand  injuries.  However,  in  the  wrist  area,  anatomic  exposure 
was  extremely  important.  Considerable  carpal  injury  could  be  created  by  even  a 
small  fragment  with  small  entrance  and  exit  wounds.  Exploration  of  this  limited 
area  through  the  wounds  of  entrance  and  exit  was  difficult.  Consequently,  with 
carpal  injuries,  a  physiological  volar  exposure  generally  was  carried  out.  This  expo¬ 
sure  brought  about  release  of  the  carpal  tunnel,  protection  of  the  median  nerve 
during  debridement,  and  also  permitted  wound  exploration  as  indicated.  After  de¬ 
bridement,  some  type  of  external  immobilization  was  usually  imposed  to  prevent 
the  volar  flexed  position  of  the  wrist.  The  wound  itself  was  managed  as  were  other 
hand  wounds,  preferably  with  delayed  primary  closure. 

Prolonged  splintage  of  these  fractures  with  the  wrist  in  slight  dorsiflexion  or  at 
least  avoiding  volar  flexion  was  usually  the  method  of  management.  This  method 
allowed  the  osseous  injury  in  the  wrist  to  consolidate  and  permitted  emphasis  to  be 
placed  on  movement  of  flexor  and  extensor  tendons  with  full  mobility  of  fingers 
and  thumb.  If  required,  elastic  traction  was  applied  to  aid  in  both  flexion  and  exten¬ 
sion  of  the  fingers.  In  the  early  years  of  the  Vietnam  War,  immobilization  for  these 
injuries  was  believed  to  be  only  a  matter  of  a  few  weeks.  Later  it  became  obvious 
that  the  longer  the  immobilization,  the  more  stable  the  wrist  would  be,  and  the  in¬ 
creased  stability  would  permit  the  patient  heavy  use  of  the  wrist  and  fingers  with  lit¬ 
tle  discomfort.  In  certain  cases  of  extreme  articular  damage  with  bone  loss,  sur¬ 
geons  attempted  to  use  Silastic  implants  in  the  wrist  joint.  However,  the  irregular 
bone  loss  gave  poor  Silastic  support  and  made  the  maintenance  of  a  mobile  and 
painfree  wrist  difficult,  even  with  good  motor  control.  The  generally  excessive  in¬ 
stability  in  the  wrist  then  resulted  in  poor  distal  finger  function. 

It  soon  became  clear  that  arthrodesis  of  the  wrist  was  a  far  superior  method  of 
management  for  the  severe  open  distal  radius  and  carpal  injury.  But  the  bone  loss 
problem  made  arthrodesis  of  the  wrist  difficult  in  certain  instances.  The  use  of  late 
internal  fixation  in  the  form  of  a  compression  plate,  with  or  without  additional  bone 
graft,  allowed  minimal  external  immobilization.  With  this  internal  stability,  addi¬ 
tional  procedures  could  be  carried  out  at  the  time  of  wrist  arthrodesis  (fig.  21). 
Tenolysis  of  the  extensor  tendons  with  metacarpophalangeal  joint  release  could  be 
carried  out  easily  at  the  same  time,  without  concern  for  loss  of  stability  of  the 
arthrodesis.  Postoperatively,  traction  loops  to  bring  about  metacarpophalangeal 
flexion  could  be  added  without  particular  difficulty.  The  arthrodesis  with  oi  without 


78 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  21. — Severe  explosive  injury  to  the  wrist  with  bone,  tendon,  and  skin  loss.  Fol¬ 
lowing  multiple  debridements,  closure  was  accomplished  by  an  abdominal  flap. 
Arthrodesis  of  the  wrist  with  creation  of  a  one-bone  forearm  by  centralization  of  hand 
over  ulna.  Stability  was  achieved  by  a  large  plate  and  screws.  With  a  stable  base  for  func¬ 
tion,  tendon  grafts  to  the  extensor  tendons  beneath  the  flap  gave  this  functional  result. 


WOUNDS  OF  THE  HAND 


79 


80 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


the  compression  plate  was  the  most  frequently  employed  method  of  management 
for  the  significant  penetrating  injury  to  the  carpus  or  distal  radius. 

CONCLUSIONS 

Inasmuch  as  orthopedic  residency  training  requires  at  least  some  exposure  to 
hand  surgery,  a  surgeon  with  an  interest  and  training  in  surgery  of  the  hand  was 
usually  available  in  Vietnam  to  treat  the  patient  with  a  hand  injury.  Guidelines  from 
other  surgeons  emphasized  the  initial  management  of  the  wounded  hand,  the  im¬ 
portance  of  debridement  without  primary  closure  of  the  wound,  and  early  (three  to 
seven  days)  evacuation  to  a  facility  for  definitive  management. 

In  offshore  hospitals,  where  physicians  with  interest  and  training  in  hand  surgery 
also  managed  the  hand-injured  patients,  the  second  operative  procedure  was  carried 
out.  At  this  point,  achieving  skeletal  stability  was  most  important.  With  skeletal  sta¬ 
bility  achieved  with  Kirschner  wires  or  spacer  wires,  motion  of  joints  and  tendons 
could  be  instituted.  After  the  patient's  second  procedure,  an  occupational  therapist 
helped  him  to  improve  active  hand  motion  with  exercise  and  splintage. 

Upon  arrival  in  CONUS,  the  patient  was  usually  sent  to  a  specialized  treatment 
center  for  reconstructive  hand  surgery.  These  centers,  established  in  designated 
general  hospitals  to  improve  the  overall  management  of  those  patients,  were 
staffed  by  orthotists,  occupational  therapists,  and  usually  graduates  of  the  hand  fel¬ 
lowship  program  at  Walter  Reed  General  Hospital.  All  in  all,  wounded  soldiers 
with  hand  injuries  received  excellent  care  throughout  the  treatment  chain,  from  the 
point  of  initial  wounding  to  the  large  military  medical  center. 


WOUNDS  OF THE  HAND 


81 


REFERENCES 

Aymard,  J.  L.  1917.  Nasal  reconstruction.  Lancet  2:888-91. 

Bakamjian,  V.  Y.  1965.  A  two-stage  method  for  pharyngoesophageal  reconstruction 
with  a  primary  pectoral  skin  flap.  Plast.  Reconstruct.  Surg.  36:173-84. 

Bunnell,  S.  1945.  Suggestions  to  improve  the  early  treatment  of  hand  injuries.  Bull. 
U.S.  Army  Med.  Dept.  88:78-82. 

Burkhalter,  W.  E.;  Butler,  B.;  Metz,  W.;  and  Omer,  G.  1968.  Experiences  with  de¬ 
layed  primary  closure  of  war  wounds  of  the  hand  in  Vietnam.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg. 
(Am)  50:945-54. 

Butler,  B.,  Jr.  1969.  Initial  management  of  hand  wounds.  Milit.  Med.  134:1-7. 

Butler,  B.,  Jr.;  Burkhalter,  W.  E.;  and  Cranston,  J.  P.  III.  1968.  Flexor-tendon  grafts 
in  the  severely  scarred  digit.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg.  (Am)  50:452-57. 

Churchill,  E.  D.  1944.  The  surgical  management  of  the  wounded  in  the  Mediter¬ 
ranean  theater  at  the  time  of  the  fall  of  Rome.  Ann.  Surg.  120:268-83. 

Curtis,  R.  M.  1971.  Surgery  of  the  hand,  its  past,  present,  and  future.  J.  Bone  Joint 
Surg.  (Am)  53:810-12. 

Cutler,  C.  W.,  Jr.  1945.  Early  management  of  wounds  of  the  hand.  Bull.  U.S.  Army 
Med.  Dept.  85:92-98. 

Hand  surgery.  Surgery  in  World  War  II.  See  MD-HS. 

Hunter,  J.  M.  1965.  Artificial  tendons— their  early  development  and  applications.  J. 
Bone  Joint.  Surg.  (Am)  47:631-32. 

Jabaley,  M.,  and  Peterson,  H.  Early  treatment  of  war  wounds  of  the  hand  and  fore¬ 
arm  in  Vietnam.  Ann.  Surg.  177:163,  1973. 

McGregor,  I.  A.,  and  Jackson,  I.  T.  1970.  The  extended  role  of  the  delto-pectoral 
flap.  Br.  J.  Plast.  Surg.  23:173-85. 

MD-HS — Medical  Department,  U.S.  Army.  1955.  Hand  surgery.  Surgery  in  World 
War  II.  Washington:  GPO. 

MD-WW — Medical  Department,  U.S.  Army.  1927.  The  Medical  Department  of  the 
United  States  Army  in  the  world  war ,  vol.  II,  pt.  1.  Washington:  GPO. 

The  medical  and  surgical  history  of  the  War  of  the  Rebellion.  See  MSHWR. 

The  Medical  Department  of  the  United  States  in  the  world  war.  See  MD-WW. 

MSHWR — U.S.  Surgeon  Generals  Office.  1876.  The  medical  and  surgical  history  of 
the  War  of  the  Rebellion ,  vol.  2,  pt.  2.  Washington:  GPO. 

Reid,  R.  L.  1979.  Hand  surgery  and  the  military:  A  historical  review.  Milit.  Med. 
144:385-88. 

Tanner,  J.  C.,  Jr.;  Vandeput,  J.;  and  Olley,  J.  F.  1964.  The  mesh  skin  graft.  Plast.  Re¬ 
construct.  Surg.  34:287-92. 


5 


Wounds  of  the  Foot 

Colonel  Anthony  Ballard,  MC ,  USA  (Ret.) 

While  foot  disease  and  injuries  were  rarely  life  threatening  during  the  Vietnam 
conflict,  they  did  result  in  prolonged  morbidity  and  great  loss  of  manpower.  A  con¬ 
siderable  amount  of  this  morbidity  can  be  attributed  to  inadequate  treatment  of 
what  appeared  to  be  minor  wounds.  Many  minor  foot  wounds  were  ignored  by  the 
soldier  until  a  deep  infection  had  become  well  established  and  the  function  of  the 
foot  seriously  compromised.  Medical  facilities  tended  to  compound  the  problem  by 
giving  foot  wounds  the  lowest  priority  and  providing  treatment  that  frequently  in¬ 
cluded  inadequate  debridement. 

The  majority  of  orthopedic  surgeons  serving  in  the  Republic  of  Vietnam  during 
the  early  years  of  the  conflict  were  not  trained  to  carry  out  the  extensive  explo¬ 
ration  and  debridement  of  the  foot  necessitated  by  many  of  the  wounds.  Because  of 
a  general  unfamiliarity  with  the  plantar  compartments  of  the  foot  and  fear  of  plan¬ 
tar  incisions,  attempts  at  wound  debridement  were  frequently  carried  out  through 
medial,  lateral,  or  dorsal,  rather  than  plantar  approaches.  However,  these  tech¬ 
niques  were  inadequate  for  complete  debridement.  Moreover  they  placed  the  ten¬ 
dons  and  neurovascular  structures  of  the  plantar  aspects  of  the  foot  in  jeopardy.* 

TREATMENT  PRINCIPLES 

Preoperative  clinical  and  radiographic  assessment  of  the  foot  to  determine  the 
extent  of  damage  to  the  nerves,  vessels,  and  bony  architecture  was  the  first  step  in 
treatment.  Anteroposterior,  lateral,  and  oblique  roentgenograms  of  the  foot  and 
ankle  were  taken  to  evaluate  the  extent  of  damage  to  the  bones  and  joints.  If  the  in¬ 
jury  was  secondary  to  a  fall  from  a  height  or  to  explosive  forces  directly  beneath  the 
foot,  fractures  of  the  femoral  neck  of  lumbar  vertebrae  were  suspected  and  roent¬ 
genograms  also  were  made  to  evaluate  these  areas. 

The  extent  of  damage  to  the  nerves  of  the  foot  was  determined  by  checking  the 
pinprick  sensation  of  the  areas  supplied  by  the  major  nerves.  Anesthesia  over  the 
medial  plantar  surface  of  the  foot  indicated  damage  to  the  medial  plantar  nerve, 
while  altered  sensation  over  the  lateral  one-fourth  of  the  sole  and  fourth  and  fifth 
toes  indicated  lateral  plantar  nerve  damage.  Anesthesia  of  the  heel  pad  was  sec¬ 
ondary  to  injury  to  the  calcaneal  branch  of  the  posterior  tibial  nerve. 

Assessment  of  vascular  injury  was  critical.  Surgeons  in  Vietnam  recognized  that 
the  foot  was  supplied  with  blood  through  extensive  anastomosis  of  the  dorsalis 
pedis,  posterior  tibial,  and  peroneal  arteries.  Although  interruption  of  any  of  these 


♦Unless  otherwise  indicated,  anatomical  discussions  in  this  chapter  are  based  on  Anatomy  of  the 
human  body  (Gray  1959). 


84 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


vessels  usually  would  not  jeopardize  the  survival  of  the  foot,  injuries  that  caused  ex¬ 
tensive  swelling  within  the  deep  compartments  of  the  foot  could  compromise  the 
blood  supply  through  all  three  vessels,  resulting  in  reduced  vascularity  and  either 
loss  of  the  foot  or  deep  extensive  fibrosis  (Omer  and  Pomerantz  1972).  In  particu¬ 
lar,  hindfoot  dislocations,  crush  injuries,  and  injuries  resulting  from  explosions  di¬ 
rectly  beneath  the  foot  were  more  likely  to  cause  extensive  vascular  damage  and 
compromise  more  than  were  gunshot  wounds  (fig.  22). 


Figure  22. — Necrosis  of  the  forefoot 
due  to  unrelieved  swelling  following 
crush  injury  of  the  foot. 


Analysis  of  vascular  injury  was  made  primarily  by  clinical  evaluation  of  skin 
color,  temperature,  and  palpable  pulses.  In  some  centers,  ultrasonic  flow  detectors, 
angiography,  and  plethysmography  supplemented  clinical  evaluation  of  circulation 
(Lavenson,  Rich  and  Strandness  1971;  Strandness  and  Bell  1965;  Rusher  et  al. 
1967).  The  ultrasonic  flow  detector  could  determine  arterial  flow  through  the  digi¬ 
tal  arteries  of  the  toes  even  in  a  grossly  swollen  foot. 

The  procedure  for  foot  debridement  was  designed  to  remove  contaminants  and 
necrotic  tissue  as  well  as  to  open  the  deep  compartments  to  release  pressure  and  thus 
preserve  viability  of  the  tissues.  Viability  of  muscle  was  determined  by  its  color,  con¬ 
tractility,  capillary  bleeding,  and  consistency  (CINCPAC-3  1969,  15-19).  Of  these 
four  viability  determinants,  muscle  consistency  was  the  most  reliable.  A  necrotic  mus¬ 
cle  rapidly  lost  its  firm  rubbery  consistency  and  had  a  mushy  feeling  when  grasped 
with  forceps.  This  finding  was  usually  present  at  the  time  of  initial  debridement. 

Neither  muscle  contractility  nor  muscle  color  were  reliable  signs  of  viability.  If 
the  debridement  was  carried  out  under  tourniquet  hemostasis,  after  several  pinches 


WOUNDS  OF THE  FOOT 


85 


with  the  forceps,  the  muscles  would  no  longer  contract  and  could  be  mistaken  for 
tissue  no  longer  viable.  At  the  time  of  initial  debridement,  muscle  color  was  also 
not  a  reliable  indicator  of  viability  because  muscle  tissue  damaged  either  directly  or 
indirectly  by  the  passage  of  a  missile  was  altered  by  diffuse  blood  about  the  fibers. 
Although  this  gave  the  muscle  an  unhealthy  hue,  in  many  instances  the  majority  of 
the  muscle  fibers  retained  their  viability. 

Wherever  possible,  lacerated  common  and  proper  digital  nerves  were  debrided 
of  contaminants  and  the  free  proximal  ends  were  left  buried  deep  in  the  foot  sur¬ 
rounded  by  soft  tissue.  Repair  of  the  nerves  was  not  attempted  during  the  initial  de¬ 
bridement.  Loss  of  function  of  the  medial  plantar  nerve  rendered  three-fourths  of 
the  plantar  surface  of  the  foot  anesthetic  and,  in  some  instances,  badly  compro¬ 
mised  foot  use.  If  skin  closure  over  the  medial  plantar  nerve  was  feasible,  it  was  re¬ 
paired  proximal  to  its  branching.  After  debridement  of  contaminants  and  necrotic 
tendon  tissue,  lacerated  tendons  were  left  unrepaired. 

Since  the  foot  could  survive  evacuation  if  either  the  dorsalis  pedis  or  posterior 
tibial  artery  remained  patent,  except  in  a  few  instances,  vascular  repair  distal  to  the 
midcalf  was  not  attempted  in  the  war  zone.  However,  if  both  vessels  were  disrupted, 
they  were  ligated  and  viability  of  the  foot  was  determined  at  a  later  date.  (Laven- 
son,  Rich  and  Strandness  1971).  Amputation  subsequently  became  necessary  in 
some  cases  because  of  avascularity  of  the  remaining  part.  In  some  of  the  CONUS 
medical  centers,  microvascular  repair  of  vessels  was  done,  but  even  when  operating 
microscopes,  fine  nonabsorbable  sutures,  and  a  well-trained  surgical  team  were  all 
available,  patency  of  the  vessel  was  difficult  to  maintain. 

Surgeons  treated  the  damaged  skeleton  of  the  foot  by  removing  all  small,  con¬ 
taminated,  and  isolated  bone  fragments,  leaving  those  larger  fragments  still  at¬ 
tached  to  soft  tissue  in  place  to  serve  as  subsequent  bone  grafts.  This  procedure  was 
especially  important  in  the  first  metatarsal  region.  Internal  fixation  of  bones  to 
maintain  alignment  was  not  performed  during  the  initial  debridement.  In  appropri¬ 
ate  cases,  it  could  be  performed  at  subsequent  operative  procedures  when  the 
wound  was  determined  to  be  clean  (CINCPAC-3  1969,  68). 

Following  the  surgical  removal  of  contaminated  and  necrotic  tissue,  wounds 
were  thoroughly  flushed  with  saline  or  an  antibiotic  solution.  This  was  done  by 
placing  the  tip  of  the  irrigating  device  into  the  depth  of  the  wound  and,  with  gentle 
pressure  of  the  fluid,  floating  loose  debris  to  the  surface.  In  some  treatment  facili¬ 
ties  in  Vietnam,  attempts  were  made  to  cleanse  the  wound  with  a  dental  instrument 
that  produced  pulsating  jets  of  water  under  pressure.  This  method  was  controver¬ 
sial.  Its  advocates  contended  that  this  was  an  effective  method  of  removing  superfi¬ 
cial  contaminants  from  tissue  while  others  believed  that  this  resulted  in  further 
imbedding  or  spreading  of  the  contaminants  throughout  the  wound  area.  Although 
the  pulsating  water  method  was  not  widely  used  in  the  treatment  of  foot  wounds  in 
Vietnam,  further  experience  has  demonstrated  the  efficacy  of  pulsating  lavage. 

After  debridement,  wounds  were  left  open  and  dressed  with  fine  mesh  gauze 
over  the  raw  surfaces.  The  lower  leg  and  foot  were  encased  in  bulky  dressings. 
Drains  proved  to  be  ineffective  and  were  discouraged  (CINCPAC-3  1969,  15-19). 
Splints  were  applied  from  the  knee  to  beyond  the  tips  of  the  toes  to  stabilize  the  un¬ 
derlying  fractures  and  injured  soft  tissues.  All  wounds  were  inspected  live  to  seven 
days  after  debridement.  If  depths  of  the  foot  had  been  entered  by  either  the  wound- 


86 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


ing  device  or  the  surgeon,  this  second  look  was  done  in  the  operating  room  with  ap¬ 
propriate  anesthesia,  tourniquet  hemostasis,  adequate  lighting,  and  surgical  instru¬ 
ments.  The  entire  wound  was  reexplored  and  any  remaining  necrotic  tissue  excised. 
Only  if  the  wound  was  clinically  clean  did  surgeons  perform  necessary  internal  fixa¬ 
tion  of  fracture,  nerve  repair,  and  closure. 

The  foot  was  immobilized  and  elevated  for  ten  to  fourteen  days  after  injury. 
Crutch  ambulation  was  started  when  the  edema  had  begun  to  subside.  Weightbear¬ 
ing  (utilizing  patellar  tendon-bearing  casts  to  reduce  the  amount  of  weight  borne  by 
the  plantar  surface  of  the  foot)  was  dictated  by  the  extent  and  type  of  fractures. 
After  skeletal  stability  had  been  achieved,  weightbearing  was  helpful  in  reducing 
the  morbidity  resulting  from  the  extensive  disuse  osteoporosis. 

Primary  closure  of  war  wounds  of  the  foot  should  rarely  be  considered  (Omer 
and  Pomerantz  1972).  Delayed  primary  closure  at  five  to  seven  days  allowed  re¬ 
assessment  of  debridement  and  its  adequacy  without  a  significant  delay  in  healing 
and  was  generally  safer  than  primary  closure.  Even  then,  delayed  primary  closure 
was  done  only  if  the  sound  edges  of  the  wound  could  be  brought  together  and  su¬ 
tured  without  tension.  Relaxing  incisions  or  undermining  edges  of  the  skin  to  close 
the  wound  was  not  recommended  because  they  resulted  in  a  high  rate  of  wound 
breakdown  and  increased  skin  loss.  Delayed  primary  closure  was  usually  applicable 
only  to  wounds  of  the  dorsum  of  the  foot  and  was  not  recommended  for  plantar 
wounds,  since  wounds  on  the  plantar  surface  or  sides  of  the  foot  without  large  areas 
of  skin  loss  closed  readily  by  secondary  intention  (Omer  and  Pomerantz  1972). 

The  skin  over  the  ball  of  the  foot  was  frequently  associated  with  damage  to  the 
adjacent  toes.  When  this  occurred,  the  toes  were  filleted  and  the  skin  was  used  to 
cover  the  weightbearing  area  of  the  distal  forefoot.  This  skin  retained  its  sensibility 
and  held  up  well  with  continued  use.  Incidence  of  deep  infection  of  these  wounds 
was  lower  with  this  approach  than  it  was  with  delayed  closure. 

When  feasible,  wounds  with  large  areas  of  skin  loss  were  closed  at  ten  to  four¬ 
teen  days  with  split-thickness  skin  grafts.  The  mesh  graft  proved  to  be  one  of  the 
most  effective  methods  of  secondary  wound  closure  in  treating  Vietnam  casualties 
with  skin  loss  of  the  feet. 

Pedicle  grafts  were  rarely  indicated  in  the  treatment  of  foot  wounds,  since  the 
failure  rate  of  resurfacing  the  foot  with  this  method  was  high.  Even  though  they 
could  provide  a  pad  over  the  weightbearing  areas  of  the  forefoot  and  heel,  pedicle 
grafts  were  anesthetic  and  did  not  wear  well  with  weightbearing  and  use.  At  Fitzsi- 
mons  General  Hospital  in  Denver,  Colorado,  between  1966  and  1970,  a  pedicle 
graft  was  used  in  4  of  the  104  patients  treated  for  open  wounds  of  the  foot  (Ballard 
1966-70).  In  three,  the  graft  was  designed  to  replace  the  loss  of  the  heel  pad;  in  the 
fourth,  it  was  designed  to  replace  the  skin  over  the  ball  of  the  foot.  Three  of  the 
pedicle  grafts  failed,  and  the  procedure  was  aborted  after  the  first  stage  in  the 
fourth  case  because  the  wound  had  already  closed  by  granulation  tissue,  before  the 
pedicle  was  ready  to  be  transferred. 

Case  1:  A  twenty-three-year-old  soldier  sustained  an  injury  to  the  right  foot  when 
he  stepped  on  a  land  mine  in  Vietnam.  This  resulted  in  a  comminuted  fracture  of  the 
calcaneus  and  loss  of  the  major  portion  of  the  heel  pad.  At  initial  debridement  on  2 
March  1967,  the  calcaneus  was  removed  and  the  wound  was  left  open.  On  16  March 
1967,  a  pedicle  flap  was  raised  on  the  left  calf  and  was  implaced  on  the  left  heel  on  6 


WOUNDS  OF THE  FOOT 


87 


April  1967.  The  wound  became  grossly  infected  and  the  entire  pedicle  flap  was  lost. 
The  patient  underwent  a  below-the-knee  amputation  on  2  June  1967  and  was  ambu¬ 
latory  without  external  support  or  discomfort  three  months  later. 

Case  2:  A  twenty-year-old  soldier  sustained  a  bullet  wound  in  the  left  heel  in  Viet¬ 
nam  on  29  December  1965.  This  resulted  in  a  comminuted  fracture  of  the  calcaneus 
and  loss  of  the  posterior  aspect  of  the  heel  pad.  After  initial  debridement,  which  in¬ 
cluded  removal  of  portions  of  the  calcaneus,  the  wound  was  left  open.  A  split-thick¬ 
ness  skin  graft  was  used  to  close  the  wound  on  25  January  1966.  A  cross-leg.pedicle 
graft  was  applied  to  the  left  heel  on  25  February  1966.  The  graft  had  a  75  percent 
take,  and  the  remaining  area  granulated  in.  Sixteen  months  later,  the  patient  returned 
to  the  hospital  because  of  repeated  breakdown  of  the  pedicle  flap  and  continuous 
pain  with  ambulation.  During  that  period,  the  patient  required  the  use  of  crutches  or 
a  cane.  Three  months  after  a  below-the-knee  amputation,  the  patient  was  ambulatory 
in  a  patellar  tendon-bearing  prosthesis,  without  external  support  and  without  pain. 

Case  3:  A  twenty-year-old  soldier  sustained  a  gunshot  wound  to  the  right  heel  on  6 
January  1968.  In  addition  to  loss  of  most  of  the  heel  pad,  the  patient  had  a  comminuted 
fracture  of  the  calcaneus.  Most  of  the  calcaneus  was  removed  at  the  initial  debridement. 
On  8  January  1968,  a  pedicle  graft  from  the  left  calf  to  the  right  heel  was  done.  Five 
days  later  there  was  purulent  drainage  from  beneath  the  pedicle  graft  and  most  of  the 
pedicle  graft  was  nonviable.  The  entire  graft  was  removed.  On  20  January  1968,  a  mesh 
split-thickness  skin  graft  was  applied  to  the  heel  defect,  with  a  90  percent  take.  The  re¬ 
maining  portion  of  the  open  wound  closed  by  granulation.  By  19  August  1968,  the 
wound  was  completely  closed  and  the  patient  was  ambulatory,  wearing  a  special  shoe 
with  a  soft  heel  insert  and  using  a  cane.  The  patient  returned  to  the  hospital  in  March 
1969,  because  of  constant  pain  in  the  foot  and  repeated  breakdown  of  the  heel  area.  A 
below-the-knee  amputation  was  done  on  4  April  1969.  By  16  June  1969,  the  patient  was 
ambulatory  without  external  support  in  a  patellar  tendon-bearing  prosthesis.  He  had  no 
pain  in  the  extremity  at  that  time  and  continued  to  be  a  good  prosthesis  wearer. 

Case  4:  A  twenty-four-year-old  soldier  sustained  an  injury  to  his  left  foot  on  30 
November  1966,  when  he  accidentally  discharged  a  12-gauge  shotgun  into  the  dor- 
somedial  aspect  of  his  forefoot.  In  addition  to  destruction  of  the  distal  end  of  the 
first  metatarsal  bone  and  first  metatarsophalangeal,  the  patient  had  a  3  x  3  cm.  skin 
defect  over  the  plantar  weightbearing  surface  of  the  foot.  Following  initial  debride¬ 
ment,  the  wounds  were  left  open  and  subsequently  remained  clean.  On  5  January 
1967,  when  the  flap  was  ready  for  insertion  into  the  foot,  the  plantar  wound  had 
completely  healed,  and  the  patient  was  ambulating  without  discomfort.  The  pedicle 
flap  procedure  was  aborted. 


SPECIFIC  INJURIES 
Puncture  Wounds 

The  enemy  found  an  inexpensive  and  effective  means  of  temporarily  inactivat¬ 
ing  a  large  number  of  American  troops  through  the  use  of  sharpened,  sometimes 
fire-tempered,  bamboo  stakes.  These  sticks,  pushed  into  the  ground  at  an  angle, 
were  hidden  by  the  high  grasses  and  underbrush  especially  prevalent  in  the  high¬ 
lands  area  of  Vietnam.  These  devices  could  puncture  the  fabric  sides  and  rubber 


88 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


soles  of  the  jungle  boots  worn  by  the  American  soldier  and  enter  the  foot  to  various 
depths.  The  resulting  wound  was  usually  a  small  (1  cm.)  innocuous-appearing  lacer¬ 
ation  on  the  side  or  plantar  surface  of  the  foot  (fig.  23).  Early  in  the  Vietnam  con¬ 
flict,  since  the  potentially  serious  nature  of  these  wounds  was  not  fully  appreciated, 
the  treatment  often  was  not  effective.  The  devastating  effectiveness  of  this  simple 
weapon  was  recognized  only  after  many  patients  returned  to  the  medical  facilities 
with  deep  infections  of  the  foot.  These  patients  required  weeks,  and  sometimes 
months,  of  hospitalization;  some  acquired  prolonged  or  permanent  disability. 


Figure  23. — Medial  plantar  wound  from  bamboo  stake  penetration  into  the  deep  plan¬ 
tar  compartments  resulting  in  deep  wound  infection. 


A  thorough  investigation  was  conducted  concerning  the  characteristics  of  these 
puncture  wounds,  the  most  efficacious  methods  of  preventing  potential  morbidity, 
and  their  effective  management.  Microscopic  examination  of  the  tissue  taken  from 
along  the  wound  tracks  revealed  multiple  small  retained  slivers  of  bamboo  sur¬ 
rounded  by  microabscess  formation.  Once  this  type  of  damage  was  recognized,  a 
more  vigorous  treatment  program  was  instituted  (figs.  24  and  25).  It  consisted  of: 

(1)  longitudinal  incisions  extending  the  wound  or  separate  anatomic  incisions 
on  the  nonweightbearing  plantar  surface,  thus  allowing  for  exploration  in  the  deep 
compartments  of  the  foot 

(2)  complete  excision  of  contaminated  tissue  adjacent  to  the  wound  track 
throughout  its  length 

(3)  thorough  irrigation  ot  the  wound  with  saline  solution,  flushing  out  clot  and 
retained  foreign  bodies 


WOUNDS  OF THE  FOOT 


89 


Figure  24.  The  skin  incision  for  exploration  of  the  plantar  foot  compartments  avoids 
the  primary  weightbearing  surface  prominences. 


Figure  25. — The  laciniate  ligament  retracted,  exposing  the  posterior  tibial  nerve. 


90 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


(4)  with  the  wound  left  entirely  open  after  the  initial  debridement,  application  of  a 
bulky  pressure  dressing,  and  elevation  of  the  foot  for  ten  to  fourteen  days  postoperatively 

(5)  intravenous  antibiotics,  usually  10  to  20  million  units  of  penicillin,  preopera- 
tively  and  for  the  first  five  days  postoperatively 

(6)  tetanus  toxoid  boosters  preoperatively,  and  reexamination  of  the  foot  in  the 
operating  room  five  to  seven  days  after  initial  debridement. 

If  there  was  no  clinical  evidence  of  infection,  many  of  these  wounds  were  closed 
at  the  second  look  operation.  Despite  these  efforts,  many  of  the  plantar  wounds 
that  had  penetrated  into  the  deep  compartment  of  the  foot  subsequently  became 
infected  and  broke  down.  As  more  experience  was  gained  with  this  injury,  most  of 
these  wounds  were  left  open  to  heal  by  secondary  intention.  This  provided  an  open 
track  for  ready  egress  of  blood  and  purulent  material.  The  incision  on  nonweight¬ 
bearing  areas  of  the  plantar  surface  of  the  foot  healed  well  by  secondary  intention, 
leaving  a  thin-line  scar  that  was  both  cosmetically  and  functionally  acceptable. 

Hindfoot  Wounds 

The  hindfoot,  consisting  of  the  talus,  calcaneus,  and  heel  pad,  absorbs  the  initial 
shock  of  impact  in  the  stance  phase  of  gait.  The  heel  pad  is  remarkably  designed  for  this 
function.  Multiple  fibrous  septa  attaching  to  the  calcaneus  envelop  fat  lobules  that, 
when  compressed,  flatten  and  expand  laterally  within  the  limits  of  the  fibrous  septa  and 
skin.  This  arrangement  is  similar  to  a  pneumatic  tire.  If  injury  or  infection  has  badly 
damaged  the  fat  lobules  and  they  have  been  replaced  by  fibrous  scar  tissue,  the  heel  pad 
loses  its  shock-absorbing  qualities  and  functions  like  a  deflated  pneumatic  tire. 

The  heel  pad  also  allows  for  accommodation  of  the  foot  to  rough  or  irregular 
surfaces  and  is  effective  in  limiting  friction  between  the  skin  and  the  shoe  or 
ground,  when  the  foot  changes  direction  of  travel.  It  does  this  by  shifting  for  a  lim¬ 
ited  distance,  medially  and  laterally,  a  function  sometimes  referred  to  as  the  third 
joint  of  the  ankle. 

The  heel  pad  is  innervated  largely  by  the  medial  calcaneal  branch  of  the  tibial 
nerve,  which  pierces  the  posterior  superior  aspect  of  the  laciniate  ligament  to  run 
subcutaneously  alongside  the  distal  Achilles  tendon  and  enters  the  heel  pad  on  its 
medial  posterior  surface.  Incision  in  this  area  should  be  planned  carefully  to  avoid 
injury  to  this  important  sensory  nerve. 

Blood  to  the  heel  pad  is  supplied  from  anastomoses  of  the  lateral  calcaneal 
branch  of  the  peroneal  artery  and  the  medial  calcaneal  branch  of  the  posterior  tibial 
artery.  The  latter  vessel,  which  provides  the  major  portion  of  the  flow  to  this  anasto¬ 
mosis,  should  be  carefully  preserved  when  incisions  in  this  area  are  made.  Damage 
to  this  vessel  is  a  common  cause  of  necrosis  of  the  heel  pad  in  Syme’s  amputations. 

The  talus  is  also  important  to  gait  for  it  not  only  transmits  all  of  the  body  weight 
to  the  foot  but  also  serves  as  a  center  of  motion  around  which  most  of  the  dorsiflex- 
ion-plantarflexion  and  inversion-eversion  occur.  The  talus  has  no  muscular  attach¬ 
ments,  so  its  only  connection  to  adjacent  structures  is  by  synovial  membrane,  artic¬ 
ular  capsules,  and  ligaments.  The  talus  has  a  precarious  blood  supply  that  enters  the 
bone  primarily  through  vascular  foramina  about  the  neck  (Giannestras  1973,  29). 
Fractures  through  the  neck  of  the  talus  threaten  the  talus  body  with  avascular 


WOUNDS  OF THE  FOOT 


91 


necrosis  (Hawkins  1970).  The  talus  articulates  with  four  bones:  tibia,  fibula,  calca¬ 
neus,  and  navicular.  Damage  to  any  one  of  these  articulations  can  result  in  alter¬ 
ation  of  gait  and  inability  of  the  foot  to  accommodate  to  irregular  surfaces. 

In  Vietnam  casualties,  badly  comminuted  open  fractures  of  the  talus  were 
treated  by  initial  talectomy.  Any  large  fragments  left  behind  after  debridement,  ex¬ 
cept  possibly  the  talar  head  and  neck,  were  found  to  sequester  and  became  a  source 
ot  chronic  infection  (Hawkins  1970).  The  most  useful  approach  for  debridement  of 
the  talus  or  talectomy  was  an  anterior  lateral  ankle  incision.  This  allowed  dissection 
completely  around  the  talus.  The  skin  incision  began  2  to  3  inches  (5  to  IVi  cm.) 
above  the  ankle  joint  medial  to  the  fibula  and  was  carried  distally  over  the  superior 
aspect  of  the  calcaneal  cuboid  joint  to  the  base  of  the  third  or  fourth  metatarsal.  If 
possible,  the  skin  incision  was  altered  to  incorporate  the  wound.  If  this  was  not  fea¬ 
sible,  the  entry  and  exit  skin  wounds  were  debrided  separately,  with  the  internal  de¬ 
bridement  through  the  elective  incision. 

Then,  the  transverse  and  cruciate  crural  ligaments  were  divided  in  the  direction 
of  the  skin  incision.  The  ankle  joint  capsule  was  excised  anteromedially  and  later¬ 
ally.  The  fragmented  talus  was  excised,  leaving  the  head  and  neck,  if  possible.  Care 
was  taken  to  preserve  the  dorsalis  pedis  artery,  since  a  penetrating  gunshot  wound 
of  the  hindfoot  frequently  damaged  the  posterior  tibial  and  peroneal  vessels.  After 
debridement,  the  wounds  were  left  open  and  were  dressed,  and  the  foot  was 
splinted  for  stability. 

At  the  second  look  procedure  five  to  seven  days  later,  if  the  wound  was  clean,  the 
hindfoot  was  shifted  posteriorly  to  place  the  remaining  portions  of  the  talus  and  part 
of  the  posterior  aspect  of  the  navicular  beneath  the  distal  end  of  the  tibia.  Large 
Steinmann  pins  were  driven  through  the  calcaneus  into  the  tibia  to  stabilize  the  foot 
in  this  new  position  (fig.  26).  The  anterior  lateral  incision  was  closed  but  the  other 
wound  areas  were  left  open.  The  pins  were  left  in  situ  for  six  weeks  and  following  pin 
removal,  ambulation  was  begun  in  a  well  molded  patellar  tendon-bearing  cast. 

The  calcaneus  forms  the  shorter  and  less  yielding  posterior  limb  of  the  longitudi¬ 
nal  arches  of  the  foot  (Giannestras  1973,  28).  It  articulates  with  the  talus,  above,  and 
the  cuboid,  distally.  Intraarticular  fractures  of  the  calcaneus  result  in  compromise  of 
the  hindfoot  inversion-eversion  and  forefoot  pronation-supination.  Extraarticular 
fractures  are  frequently  associated  with  damage  to  the  heel  pad  and  the  problems  re¬ 
sulting  from  injury  to  this  structure.  The  blood  supply  to  calcaneus  is  multisource 
and  extensive.  Aseptic  necrosis  of  any  portion  of  this  bone  is  uncommon. 

Penetrating  wounds  through  the  plantar  surface  of  the  heel  pad  were  explored 
and  debrided  through  a  modified  Gaenslen  heel-splitting  incision  (Gaenslen  1931). 
This  approach  split  the  fat  pad  longitudinally  and  allowed  access  to  the  underlying 
comminuted  contaminated  calcaneus  (fig.  27).  All  identifiable  contaminants  and 
small  fragments  of  bone  and  cartilage  were  removed.  The  lateral,  medial,  and  poste¬ 
rior  shells  of  the  calcaneus  with  its  soft  tissue  attachments  were  preserved,  if  possi¬ 
ble.  Undermining  the  heel  flaps  was  kept  to  a  minimum  since  this  further  impaired 
the  neurovascular  supply  to  the  structure  and  destroyed  the  shock-absorbing  capac¬ 
ity  of  the  heel  pad.  Internal  fixation  of  fracture  fragments  of  the  calcaneus  was  con¬ 
sidered  contraindicated  because  of  the  high  incidence  of  osteomyelitis.  Following 
surgical  debridement,  the  wound  was  flushed  with  normal  saline  or  an  antibiotic  so¬ 
lution  and  left  open.  No  attempt  at  secondary  closure  was  made  in  these  wounds. 


92 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  26. — Shotgun  wound  of  the  ankle, 
with  destruction  of  the  talus  and  fracture  of 
the  calcaneus.  Primary  talectomy  was  done  at 
the  initial  debridement.  The  head  of  the  talus 
and  part  of  the  navicular  were  shifted  posteri¬ 
orly  under  the  tibia  and  fixed  with  Stein- 
mann’s  pins.  Two  years  later  the  hindfoot  had 
healed  and  a  foot  and  ankle  were  preserved. 


WOUNDS  OF THE  FOOT 


93 


The  side-to-side  traversing  gunshot  wound  of  the  hindfoot  was  most  adequately 
debrided  through  lateral  and  medial  incisions,  with  the  major  portion  of  the  explo¬ 
ration  through  the  lateral  incision.  This  procedure  avoided  further  damage  to  the  me¬ 
dial  calcaneal  branches  of  the  posterior  tibial  nerve  and  to  the  tibial  artery  that  sup¬ 
plied  the  heel  pad.  A  medial  incision  through  the  fat  pad  was  prone  to  transect  the 
calcaneal  branches  of  the  posterior  tibial  nerve,  rendering  the  majority  of  the  heel  pad 
anesthetic.  These  wounds  were  left  open,  appropriately  dressed  and  splinted.  Healing 
of  wounds  of  several  centimeters  in  size  occurred  quite  readily  by  ingrowth  of  sur¬ 
rounding  epithelium  over  the  framework  of  the  underlying  granulation  tissue  (fig.  28). 
Well  molded  circular  casts  were  applied,  and  ambulation  was  allowed  as  the  wound 
condition  permitted.  A  patellar  tendon-bearing  cast  applied  over  a  one  inch  (2.5  cm.) 
thick  sponge  rubber  pad  placed  over  the  plantar  surface  of  the  foot  helped  to  decrease 
the  forces  transmitted  through  the  hindfoot  and  allowed  for  early  ambulation. 

The  final  hindfoot  wound  discussed  in  this  section  is  the  injury  in  which  the  heel 
pad  and  the  underlying  bones  were  irreparably  damaged.  The  sentiments  of  Hamp¬ 
ton  after  World  War  II  are  still  applicable: 

Compound  fractures  of  the  tarsus,  especially  when  the  os  calcis  was  involved, 
were  a  source  of  prolonged  disability.  Functional  results  were  seldom  optimal  and 
were  often  actually  poor.  Although  conservatism  was  ordinarily  practiced,  many  or¬ 
thopedic  surgeons,  when  they  reviewed  their  experience,  wondered  whether  this  had 
been  the  wisest  course.  They  could  recall  many  cases  of  extensive  bony  disorganiza¬ 
tion  and  persistent  infection,  with  continuing  destruction  of  bone  or  loss  of  weight¬ 
bearing  skin  on  the  plantar  surface  of  the  heel,  in  which  conservative  measures  had 
been  employed  but  in  which  amputation  might  have  been  the  wiser  course.  In  some 
of  these  cases,  amputation  was  eventually  performed  in  the  Zone  of  Interior  but 
only  after  the  soldiers  had  been  hospitalized  for  months  and  even  years. 


94 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  27. — Longitudinal  heel-splitting  incision  used  to  debride  infected  calcaneus 
and  plantar  heel  wounds. 


If  Hampton’s  advice  had  been  followed  by  the  surgeons  treating  patients  with 
this  injury  sustained  in  Vietnam,  rehabilitation  of  the  patient  would  have  been 
more  rapid  and  successful.  Amputation  should  be  done  before  the  surgeon  and  the 
patient  become  so  emotionally  attached  to  the  foot  that  their  goals  become  unreal¬ 
istic.  The  amputation,  therefore,  should  be  done  at  the  initial  debridement  or  at  the 
second-look  operation  (fig.  29). 

Statistics  on  foot  injuries  during  the  Vietnam  War  are  not  available  for  analysis; 
therefore,  the  results  of  treatment  of  hindfoot  injuries  from  a  major  hospital  are  re¬ 
ported  as  representative  of  this  type  of  wound.  Twenty-four  patients  with  twenty- 
six  significant  hindfoot  injuries  were  treated  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  during 


1966-70  with  results  as  follows: 

Returned  to: 

Duty  w/o  symptoms .  2 

Limited  duty  w/symptoms .  5 

Total  returned  to  duty .  7 

Discharged  as  unfit  for  duty: 

Ambulatory  without  assistance  or  pain .  1 

Ambulatory  with  pain  and  assistance .  8 

Early  amputation  (first  hospitalization) .  3 

Delayed  amputation  (subsequent  hospitalization) .  5 

Total  Discharged .  17 

Total  Patients .  24 


WOUNDS  OF THE  FOOT 


95 


Figure  28. — Perforating  gunshot  wound  of  heel.  Wound  left  open  after  debridement 
and  four  weeks  later,  healing  by  centripetal  epithelialization. 


96 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  29. — Gunshot  wound  to  hindfoot  with  severe  damage  to  the  calcaneus  and  nerves 
and  arteries  of  the  heel  pad.  Best  treatment  would  have  been  below-knee  amputation. 


In  general,  these  patients  with  hindfoot  injuries  were  treated  until  final  disposi¬ 
tion  so  that  the  end  results  reported  here  probably  represent  their  eventual  condi¬ 
tion.  The  hospital  stay  for  this  group  of  patients  ranged  from  28  to  625  days,  averag¬ 
ing  246  days.  Of  the  17  patients  medically  unfit  for  further  military  service  and 
discharged,  8  had  significant  pain  and  required  external  support  for  ambulation;  1 
had  a  spontaneous  ankle  fusion,  denied  pain,  but  had  an  altered  gait;  3  had  below- 
knee  amputations  early  in  their  stay  at  the  hospital;  and  5  returned  to  the  hospital 
within  three  years  and  requested  below-knee  amputations,  which  were  done. 

Midfoot  and  Metatarsal  Area  Wounds 

The  midfoot,  composed  of  five  small  tarsal  bones,  roughly  resembles  a  wedge 
with  the  apex  laterally  and  the  base  medially.  Through  and  about  these  five  bones, 
part  of  the  movements  of  pronation  and  supination  occurs.  They  augment  the  in¬ 
version  and  eversion  that  take  place  through  the  subtalar  joints.  These  bones  form 
the  apex  of  the  longitudinal  arch  of  the  foot  (Grant  1952,  444-48).  Surgically,  the 
dorsum  of  the  midtarsal  and  metatarsal  areas  was  approached  through  appropriate 
longitudinal  incisions. 

The  deep  plantar  artery  joins  the  lateral  plantar  artery  from  the  posterior  tibial 
artery  to  form  the  plantar  arterial  arch.  At  the  base  of  the  second  and  third 
metatarsals  the  artery  branches  into  the  first  dorsal  metatarsal  artery  and  the  deep 
plantar  artery.  Care  was  taken  to  identify  and  preserve  the  dorsalis  pedis  artery  as  it 


WOUNDS  OF THE  FOOT 


97 


crossed  the  dorsum  oi  the  midfoot  lying  in  turn  on  the  talus,  lateral  side  of  the  nav¬ 
icular,  and  second  cuneiform. 

At  the  second-look  operation  or  at  a  later  date  when  the  wound  was  determined 
to  be  clean,  internal  fixation  with  small  Kirschner  wires  was  used  to  align  displaced 
skeletal  parts.  The  Kirschner  wires  were  cut  off  below  the  skin  so  that  they  could  be 
readily  retrieved  later.  Stability  in  the  position  of  function  gave  the  best  chance  of 
useful  future  foot  function.  When  the  injured  tissue  stabilized  and  edema  de¬ 
creased,  the  initial  cast  or  splints  were  replaced  with  a  well  molded  plaster  cast. 
Weightbearing  ambulation  was  begun  when  some  bone  stability  had  been  achieved, 
usually  six  to  eight  weeks  after  injury.  Fractures  of  the  distal  metatarsals  allowed 
much  earlier  weightbearing,  usually  within  a  few  days  of  injury.  The  surgical  ap¬ 
proach  to  the  plantar  surface  of  this  area  is  described  later  in  this  chapter. 

At  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  during  1966-70,  60  patients  with  open  injuries 
of  the  midfoot  or  metatarsal  areas  or  both  were  treated,  with  the  following  results: 


Returned  to  duty: 

Without  symptoms .  4 

Limited  duty  with  symptoms .  22 

Total  returned  to  duty .  26 

Discharged  as  unfit  for  duty: 

Ambulatory  without  significant  symptoms .  5 

Significant  symptoms  requiring  crutch  or  cane .  29 

Total  discharged .  34 

All  patients .  60 


Most  of  these  patients  were  treated  until  a  final  disposition  could  be  deter¬ 
mined.  Except  for  those  who  returned  later  for  amputation,  the  results  reported 
here  are  probably  representative  of  the  final  results  from  these  types  of  injuries. 
The  initial  hospitalization  of  this  group  of  60  patients  was  from  6  to  839  days,  with 
an  average  of  193  days.  Of  26  patients  returned  to  duty,  22  were  asymptomatic  and 
walking  with  no  external  support.  Four  were  returned  to  a  permanent  limited  duty 
status,  and  all  4  had  symptoms  of  limited  foot  motion. 

Thirty-four  patients  were  unfit  for  active  duty  at  the  end  of  their  hospitalization. 
Twenty-nine  of  this  group  were  symptomatic  and  required  either  a  cane  or  crutch  for 
ambulation.  Ten  of  the  29  patients  returned  to  the  hospital  within  4  years  for  an  am¬ 
putation  of  the  foot.  Whether  others  of  this  group  went  elsewhere  for  subsequent 
ablative  procedures  is  not  known.  Five  patients  had  minimal  discomfort  and  re¬ 
quired  no  external  support  to  ambulate  but  were  unfit  for  duty  because  of  marked 
limitation  of  motion,  anesthetic  portions  of  the  feet,  or  significant  plantar  skin  loss. 

Sixteen  of  the  sixty  patients  had  an  amputation  of  a  portion  or  all  of  the  foot 
during  their  first  hospitalization  (table  3).  Two  patients  who  were  discharged  with 
Chopart  amputations  returned  to  the  hospital  later  because  of  persistent  equino- 
varus  deformity  of  the  stump,  poor  ambulatory  ability,  and  pain  with  ambulation 
(fig.  30).  Five  patients  had  resections  of  the  outside  rays  of  the  foot  during  their  first 
hospitalization;  three  had  the  medial  second  or  third  rays  resected  and  two  had  re¬ 
section  of  the  lateral  two  rays  (fig.  31).  Two  of  the  patients  with  medial  ray  resec¬ 
tions  returned  to  the  hospital  later  for  a  revision  to  a  Syme’s  amputation  because  of 


98 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


pain  and  poor  ambulatory  capacity  (fig.  32).  The  final  status  of  the  third  patient 
with  medical  ray  resection  is  not  known. 


Table  3. — Amputations  during  first  hospitalization  for  midfoot  metatarsal  injury, 
Fitzsimons  Genera!  Hospital,  1966-70 


Patient 

Age 

Mechanism  of  injury  1 

Reason  for  amputation 

Amputation  type 

1 . 

21  . 

.  MFW.  rocket.  .  . 

.  Open  Fx  Midmetatarsals  2,  3,  4.  5 . 

.  .  4th,  5th  rays. 

2 . 

20  . 

.  AK-47,  GSW  .  . 

.  Destruction  of  midfoot . 

.  .  Syme’s. 

3 . 

25  . 

.  Land  mine . 

.  Loss  of  medial  forefoot . 

.  .  Syme’s. 

4 . 

23  . 

.  Vehicle . 

.  Crush  injury,  swelling,  gangrene . 

.  .  Transmetatarsal. 

5 . 

22  . 

.  AK-47,  GSW  .  . 

.  Destruction  midfoot  &  proximal  metatarsal.  . 

.  .  Syme’s. 

6 . 

36  . 

.  MFW,  mine .... 

.  Destruction  metatarsals  1,2 . 

.  .  1,  ray  resection. 

7 . 

18  . 

.  Land  mine . 

.  Loss  of  forefoot . 

.  .  Syme’s. 

8 . 

20  . 

.  Land  mine . 

.  Destruction  of  midfoot . 

.  .  Syme’s. 

9 . 

21  . 

.  Vehicle,  tank .  .  . 

.  Crush  &  Lisfranc  dislocation,  gangrene . 

.  .  Syme’s. 

10 . 

20  . 

.  Shotgun,  12-ga  . 

.  Midfoot  destruction . 

.  .  Chopart. 

11 . 

26  .  , 

.  MFW.  rocket.  .  . 

.  Destruction  metatarsals  4,  5 . 

.  .  Resection  rays 

3,  4,  5. 

12 . 

20  .  . 

,  MFW,  mine .  .  .  . 

.  Destruction  metatarsals  1. 2,  3,  4 . 

.  .  Chopart. 

13 . 

19  .  . 

.  Vehicle,  truck  .  . 

.  Crush  both  feet,  gangrene  left,  stiff  right . 

.  .  Syme’s  left. 

14 . 

19  .  . 

.  MFW.  mine .  .  .  . 

.  Destruction  medial  forefoot . 

.  .  Resection  rays 
1,2,3. 

15 . 

24  .  . 

MFW.  mine . 

.  Fx  midfoot,  uncontrolled  deep  infection . 

.  Below  knee. 

16 . 

25  .  . 

MFW.  mine . 

.  Destruction  rays  1,  2,  3 . 

.  Resection  rays 
1,2,3. 

1  MFW  =  multiple  fragment  wound;  GSW  =  gunshot  wound. 
Source:  Author's  personal  records. 


Ten  of  the  patients  previously  treated  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  and  dis¬ 
charged  as  unfit  for  further  duty  returned  to  the  hospital  later  for  revision  of  a  pre¬ 
vious  amputation  or  for  a  primary  amputation  (table  4).  A  Syme's  amputation  was 
done  on  four  of  the  patients  who  had  previously  undergone  partial  medial  foot  re¬ 
sections  and  whose  Chopart  amputation  was  unsatisfactory. 

Omer  and  Pomerantz  (1972)  reported  the  results  of  the  management  of  severe 
open  injuries  and  traumatic  amputations  of  the  foot.  Of  the  410  patients  treated  from 
1966  to  1969  at  Brooke  General  Hospital,  San  Antonio,  Texas,  307  had  sustained 
major  foot  injuries.  Of  the  307  patients,  171  (55  percent)  had  assisted  painful  ambula¬ 
tion  or  had  elected  an  amputation  by  the  end  of  their  first  hospitalizations  (table  5). 

Toe  Wounds 

In  the  toot,  unlike  the  hand,  stability  takes  precedence  over  motion,  and  bone  bal¬ 
ance  is  of  greater  importance  than  muscle  balance.  The  foot  supports  and  propels  the 
body  forward  in  an  upright  posture.  The  foot  functions  principally  while  it  is  on  the 
ground.  The  toes  press  against  the  sole  of  the  shoe  or  the  ground  and  establish  a  point 
Irom  which  forward  propulsion  occurs.  The  toes  also  provide  protection  for  the 
metatarsal  heads.  Both  in  function  and  structure,  the  great  toe  differs  from  the  lesser 


WOUNDS  OF THE  FOOT 


99 


Figure  30. — Chopart  amputation  with  common  equinovarus  deformity  of  the  hindfoot. 


Figure  31. — Loss  of  the  lateral  rays 
is  compatible  with  fair  foot  function. 


100 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


toes.  While  the  lesser  toes  contribute  to  the  stability  of  the  walking  base,  the  great  toe 
is  the  base  from  which  the  body  is  propelled  forward  (Kelikian  1965, 27-30). 


Table  4. — Amputations  or  revisions  at  subsequent  hospitalization  for  midfoot  or  metatarsal  injury, 

Fitzsimons  General  Hospital,  1966-70 


Patient 

Age 

Previous  amputation 

Reason  for  amputation  or  revison  1 

Amputation  type 

10 . 

20  . 

.  Chopart . 

.  Pain  with  ambulation,  equinovarus  deformity  . 

,  Syme’s. 

16 . 

25  . 

.  Ray  resection  .  . 
1,2,3 

.  None . 

.  Pain  lateral  side  of  foot,  poor  gait . 

.  Syme’s. 

17 . 

22  . 

.  Deep  infection  post  MFW,  cavus  foot . 

claw  toes,  pain 

Syme’s. 

12 . 

20  . 

.  Chopart . 

.  Pain  with  ambulation,  equinovarus  deformity  .  . 

Syme’s. 

13 . 

19  . 

.  None,  right  .... 

.  Lack  sensation  distal  forefoot,  stiff,  painful  foot  . 

Transmetatarsal. 

14 . 

19  . 

.  Ray  resection  .  . 
1,2,3 

.  Poor  walking  tolerance,  pain  lateral  foot . 

Syme’s. 

15 . 

24  . 

.  None,  left . 

.  Chronic  osteomyelitis,  pain,  left  foot  post . 

MFW,  midfoot 

Syme’s. 

18 . 

24  . 

.  None . 

.  Chronic  osteomyelitis,  pain,  MFW,  midfoot .  .  .  . 

Syme’s. 

19 . 

25  . 

.  None . 

.  Chronic  osteomyelitis,  pain,  GSW,  midfoot  .  .  .  . 

Syme’s. 

20 . 

22  . 

.  None . 

.  Loss  sensation  forefoot,  cavus,  stiff,  painful  foot  . 

Syme’s. 

1  MFW  =  multiple  fragment  wound;  OSW  =  gunshot  wound. 
Source:  Author’s  personal  records. 


Table  5. — Results  after  first  hospitalization,  open  injuries  of  the  foot,  Brooke  Army  Medical  Center,  1966-69 


Mechanism  of  injury 

Ambulation 
without  pain 

Assisted  painful 
ambulation 

Amputation 

Number 
of  cases 

Major: 

Automobile . 

1 

0 

0 

1 

Bicycle  (spokes) . 

9 

0 

2 

11 

Burns . 

0 

3 

4 

7 

Crush  and  bursting . 

18 

19 

0 

37 

Gunshot  wounds . 

59 

22 

21 

102 

Land  mines  and  fragments  .  . 

38 

42 

48 

128 

Lawn  mower . 

8 

1 

9 

18 

Motorcycle . 

3 

0 

0 

3 

Minor: 

Abrasions  and  contusions .  .  . 

54 

0 

0 

54 

Lacerations  and  punctures  .  . 

49 

0 

0 

49 

Total . 

239 

87 

84 

410 

Source:  Omerand  Pomerantz,  1972. 


A  large  proportion  of  toe  wounds  were  self-inflicted  by  a  few  soldiers  seeking 
relief  from  duty.  Most  frequently,  the  left  foot  was  involved  and,  fortunately,  the 
lesser  toes  were  most  commonly  injured.  Despite  the  high  velocity  of  the  rifles  used 
in  Vietnam,  damage  was  usually  confined  to  a  limited  area,  probably  because  the 
toes  offer  little  impedance  to  the  passage  of  a  bullet  and  thus  little  energy  was  ex- 


WOUNDS  OF THE  FOOT 


101 


Figure  32. — Loss  of  the  medial  rays  results  in  poor  foot  function  and  should  be  con¬ 
verted  to  a  Syme’s  amputation. 


pended  within  the  part.  Throughout  the  Vietnam  War,  periodic  attempts  were 
made  to  keep  the  soldiers  with  a  self-inflicted  wound  in  the  zone  until  they  could  be 
returned  to  duty.  Unfortunately,  these  wounds  took  several  weeks  to  heal  suffi¬ 
ciently  to  allow  full  combat  duty  and,  if  retained  in  Vietnam,  the  hospitalized  pa¬ 
tient  could  not  be  replaced  with  a  more  effective  soldier. 

Since  the  great  toe  is  important  in  normal  gait,  every  effort  was  made  to  preserve 
its  function.  After  debridement,  when  the  wound  was  determined  to  be  clean  and 
ready  for  closure,  small  Kirschner  wires  were  used  to  align  and  stabilize  the  fractures. 
The  interphalangeal  joints  of  the  first  toe  were  fused  without  great  loss  of  function,  but 
mobility  of  the  metatarsophalangeal  joint  was  preserved,  if  possible,  either  by  resec¬ 
tional  arthroplasty  in  Vietnam,  or,  at  some  CONUS  centers,  by  use  of  artificial  partial 
or  complete  first  metatarsophalangeal  joints.  The  artificial  joint  was  more  stable  than 
the  resection  arthroplasty  and  thus  provided  a  better  axis  around  which  the  muscles  of 
propulsion  could  work.  Implants  had  no  place  in  the  initial  surgery  of  combat  casual¬ 
ties  and  were  reserved  for  reconstruction  at  a  later  time  in  the  clean  closed  wound. 

Loss  of  the  first  toe  was  frequently  associated  with  damage  to  the  intrinsic  mus¬ 
cles  of  the  foot,  leading  to  a  claw  toe  deformity  of  the  lesser  toes.  These  digits  then 
not  only  became  functionless,  but  further  impaired  the  wearing  of  footgear  and  am¬ 
bulation.  Such  patients  were  much  better  off  with  amputation  of  all  toes  rather  than 
with  the  preservation  of  stiff,  deformed  claw  toes. 


102 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Twenty  patients  with  open  injuries  involving,  primarily,  the  toes  were  treated  at 
Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  from  1966-70  with  results  as  follows: 


Returned  to  duty: 

Without  symptoms .  13 

Limited  duty  without  symptoms .  0 

Total  returned  to  duty .  13 

Discharged  from  service: 

Amputation  of  first  toe .  4 

Amputation  of  second  toe  with  hallux  valgus .  2 

Claw  toe .  1 

Total  discharged . 

All  patients .  20 


Hospitalization  of  these  20  patients  varied  from  4  to  270  days  (average,  71  days). 
The  prolonged  hospitalization — 270  days — was  for  a  patient  who  had  sustained  a 
crush  injury  of  the  first  toe  that  resulted  in  an  open  comminuted  fracture  of  both  pha¬ 
langes  and  loss  of  the  medial  plantar  skin  of  the  toe.  Prolonged  infection  ensued,  and 
the  toe  was  eventually  amputated.  Thirteen  patients  from  this  group  were  returned  to 
full  duty  without  significant  symptoms.  Of  the  7  patients  discharged  from  the  service 
as  unfit  for  duty,  4  had  lost  the  first  toe,  2  had  the  second  toe  amputated  with  subse¬ 
quent  valgus  drift  of  the  first  toe,  and  1  had  severe  clawing  of  the  middle  3  toes  and 
marked  metatarsalgia.  All  patients  with  loss  of  function  of  the  first  toe  had  an  altered 
gait,  required  modified  footgear,  and  were  unable  to  run  effectively  (fig.  33). 

RECOMMENDED  OPERATIVE  APPROACH  TO  DEEP 
COMPARTMENTS  OF  THE  WOUNDED  FOOT 

A  high  percentage  of  patients  with  open  injuries  of  the  foot  suffer  from  pro¬ 
longed  disability.  Part  of  the  morbidity  resulting  from  foot  wounds  sustained  in  Viet¬ 
nam  was  attributable  to  inadequate  initial  debridement  and  subsequent  deep  foot 
infections.  As  experience  accumulated,  greater  use  was  made  of  plantar  incisions, 
which  facilitated  better  exposure  of  the  damaged  area  and  afforded  greater  protec¬ 
tion  of  the  undamaged  tissues.  One  particularly  useful  approach,  all  or  any  portion 
of  which  may  be  used  to  explore  the  plantar  aspect  of  the  foot,  is  described  below. 

Initially,  an  incision  is  made  in  the  skin  1.5  inches  (3.8  cm.)  proximal  and  1  inch 
(2.5  cm.)  posterior  to  the  tip  of  the  medial  malleolus.  It  is  extended  distally  and  plan- 
tarward  to  run  just  in  front  of  the  heel  pad  and  then  along  the  longitudinal  plantar 
arch  to  a  point  between  the  second  and  third  metatarsal  heads.  This  incision  roughly 
parallels  the  course  of  the  medial  plantar  nerve.  The  neurovascular  bundle  lies 
below  the  laciniate  ligament  and  posterior  to  the  flexor  digitorum  longus  tendon  and 
can  be  readily  identified  behind  the  medial  malleolus.  At  the  superior  edge  of  the 
laciniate  ligament,  the  tibial  nerve  divides  into  two  terminal  branches,  the  medial 
plantar  nerve  and  lateral  plantar  nerve.  The  laciniate  ligament  should  be  divided 
over  the  flexor  digitorum  longus  tendon  to  avoid  damage  to  the  medial  calcaneal 
branch  ol  the  tibial  nerve,  which  passes  through  the  superior  posterior  aspect  of  the 
ligament,  near  its  attachment  to  the  calcaneus.  The  medial  and  the  lateral  plantar 


WOUNDS  OF THE  FOOT 


103 


Figure  33. — The  skin  of  toes  2,  3,  and  4  has  been  used  to  resurface  the  plantar  area 
over  the  metatarsal  heads.  The  fifth  toe  was  later  amputated.  The  medial  and  plantar 
areas  of  the  arch  have  been  covered  with  split-thickness  skin  graft;  the  metatarsal  head 
area  with  skin  from  the  filleted  small  toes.  The  great  toe  was  destroyed  in  the  injury. 

nerves,  accompanied  by  the  posterior  tibial  artery,  pass  deep  to  the  abductor  hallucis 
muscle  and  enter  the  plantar  surface  of  the  foot  between  this  muscle  and  the  flexor 
digitorum  brevis.  They  are  best  exposed  and  protected  by  excising  the  origin  of  the 
abductor  hallucis  from  the  calcaneus.  A  suture  ligature  placed  through  the  free  end 
of  the  muscle  is  used  to  retreat  it  distally  and  medially. 

The  medial  plantar  nerve  supplies  sensation  to  the  medial  three-fourths  of  the  sole 
of  the  foot.  In  its  course  through  the  foot,  the  medial  plantar  nerve  lies  deep  to  the 
flexor  digitorum  brevis  muscle  and  superficial  to  all  other  muscles  and  tendons  of  the 
foot.  Beneath  the  abductor  hallucis,  the  medial  plantar  gives  off  two  or  three  muscular 
branches  to  the  deep  surface  of  this  muscle  at  its  middle  and  distal  thirds.  Distal  to  the 
muscular  branches,  it  divides  into  three  common  digital  nerves,  each  of  which  splits  into 
two  proper  digital  nerves  to  supply  the  first,  second,  third,  and  one-half  of  the  fourth 
toes.  This  terminal  division  occurs  just  proximal  to  the  transverse  metatarsal  ligaments. 

The  lateral  plantar  nerve  supplies  sensation  to  the  lateral  one-fourth  of  the  sole  of 
the  foot  and  provides  motor  branches  to  most  of  the  deep  intrinsic  muscles  of  the  foot. 
Upon  exiting  from  beneath  the  abductor  hallucis  muscle,  it  runs  obliquely  laterally  and 
distally  in  the  interval  between  the  flexor  digitorum  brevis  muscle  and  the  quadratus 
plantae  muscle.  The  large  lateral  plantar  artery  accompanies  this  nerve.  By  transecting 
the  origin  of  the  plantar  aponeurosis  and  flexor  digitorum  brevis  from  the  calcaneal 
tuberosity  and  retracting  these  structures,  laterally,  and  the  abductor  hallucis  muscle 
medially,  the  midfoot  course  of  the  medial  and  lateral  plantar  nerves  and  arteries  can 
be  exposed  and  protected.  The  relationship  of  these  structures  is  shown  in  figure  34. 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  34. — Transection  of  the  origins  of  the 
abductor  hallucis  and  flexor  digitorum  brevis 
muscles  allows  retraction  for  further  visualiza¬ 
tion  of  the  plantar  nerves  and  vessels. 


WOUNDS  OF THE  FOOT 


105 


A  suture  ligature  placed  in  the  cut  end  of  the  flexor  digitorum  brevis  is  helpful  in 
retraction  and  exposure.  The  medial  plantar  nerve  and  artery  are  retracted  medially 
and  the  lateral  nerve  and  artery  are  retracted  laterally  along  with  the  flexor  digito¬ 
rum  brevis.  The  quadratus  plantae  muscle  inserting  into  the  flexor  digitorum  longus 
tendon  now  lies  in  the  floor  of  the  wound.  Access  to  the  third  layer  of  muscles,  to  the 
deep  plantar  ligaments,  and  to  the  bones  and  joints  is  gained  by  transecting  the  in¬ 
sertion  of  the  quadratus  plantae  along  with  a  narrow  strip  of  the  flexor  digitorum 
longus  tendon  and  retracting  this  structure,  laterally.  By  retracting  the  flexor  digito¬ 
rum  longus  tendons  medially  the  plantar  aspect  of  the  foot,  from  the  calcaneal 
tuberosity  to  the  mid-metatarsal  areas,  can  be  exposed.  Running  a  course  from  prox¬ 
imal  lateral  to  distal  medial  in  the  floor  of  the  wound  are  the  peroneus  longus  ten¬ 
don  and  the  deep  branch  of  the  lateral  plantar  artery.  The  lateral  plantar  artery 
unites  with  the  deep  plantar  branch  of  the  dorsalis  pedis  artery  in  the  interval  be¬ 
tween  the  bases  of  the  first  and  second  metatarsals  to  complete  the  plantar  arterial 
arch.  Interruption  of  this  vascular  arch  at  any  site  is  compatible  with  survival  of  the 
distal  foot,  but  unrelieved  pressure  from  midfoot  swelling  will  result  in  necrosis  and 
loss  of  the  forefoot.  By  extending  the  incision  distally,  through  the  second  and  third 
web  spaces,  the  second,  third,  and  fourth  metatarsal  areas  can  be  explored  readily.  If 
exposure  of  the  first  or  fifth  metatarsal  is  indicated,  separate  incisions  are  required. 

SUMMARY 

The  prolonged  morbidity  and  ultimate  high  incidence  of  permanent  disability  of 
foot  wounds  were  not  fully  appreciated  by  many  surgeons  during  the  Vietnam  War. 
Inadequate  debridement  of  wounds  through  inappropriate  surgical  exposures  con¬ 
tributed  to  the  poor  results.  Some  of  the  lessons  learned  by  experience  in  treating 
foot  wounds  were: 

(1)  Contamination  of  the  deep  plantar  compartments  of  the  foot  necessitated 
thorough  debridement,  which  was  best  done  through  plantar  incisions.  These  inci¬ 
sions  allowed  protection  and  preservation  of  the  important  neurovascular  struc¬ 
tures  and  removal  of  contaminants  and  devitalized  tissue. 

(2)  Wounds  causing  loss  of  the  heel  pad  were  best  treated  by  early  below-knee 
amputations. 

(3)  Some  medical  centers  achieved  satisfactory  results  from  Chopart-type  midfoot 
amputations  by  carefully  balancing  muscle  forces  about  the  ankle  and  with  appropriate 
partial  foot  prosthesis.  However,  in  most  treatment  facilities,  the  majority  of  patients 
with  severe  forefoot  wounds  were  better  served  by  a  Svme’s  amputation  that  reduced 
the  length  of  morbidity,  the  number  of  surgical  procedures,  and  prosthetic  revisions. 

REFERENCES 

CINCPAC-3.  1969.  Commander  in  Chief,  Pacific.  Third  CINCPAC  Conference  on 

War  Surgery.  Tri-service  conference  conducted  at  Camp  H.M.  Smith,  Hawaii, 

20-23  Jan  1969. 

Gaenslen,  F.  J.  1931.  Split-heel  approach  in  osteomyelitis  of  os  calcis.  J.  Bone  Joint 

Surg.  13:759-72. 


106 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Giannestras,  N.  J.  1973.  Foot  disorders:  medical  and  surgical  management.  2d  ed. 
Philadelphia:  Lea  &  Febiger. 

Grant,  J.  C.  B.  1952.  A  method  of  anatomy:  descriptive  and  deductive.  5  th  ed.  Balti¬ 
more:  Williams  &  Wilkins. 

Gray,  H.  1959.  Anatomy  of  the  human  body.  27th  ed.  Philadelphia:  Lea  &  Febiger. 
Hampton,  O.  P,  Jr.  1957.  Orthopedic  surgery  in  the  Mediterranean  Theater  of  Oper¬ 
ations.  Office  of  The  Surgeon  General,  Department  of  the  Army.  Washington: 
GPO. 

Hawkins,  L.  G.  1970.  Fractures  of  the  neck  of  the  talus.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg.  52- 
A:991-1002. 

Kelikian,  H.  1965.  Hallux  valgus,  allied  deformities  of  the  forefoot  and  metatarsalgia. 
Philadelphia:  W.  B.  Saunders. 

Lavenson,  G.  S.,  Jr.;  Rich,  N.  M.;  and  Strandness,  D.  E.,  Jr.  Ultrasonic  flow  detector 
value  in  combat  vascular  injuries.  Ann.  Surg.  102:644-47. 

MD-OSMTO— Medical  Department,  U.S.  Army.  1957.  Orthopedic  surgery  in  the 
Mediterranean  Theater  of  Operations.  Surgery  in  World  War  II.  Washington: 
GPO. 

Omer,  G.  E.,  Jr.,  and  Pomerantz,  G.  M.  1972.  Initial  management  of  severe  open  in¬ 
juries  and  traumatic  amputations  of  the  foot.  Arch.  Surg.  105:698. 

Rusher,  R.  G.;  Baker,  D.  W.;  Johnson,  W.  L.;  and  Strandness,  D.  E.,  Jr.  1967.  Clinical 
applications  of  a  transcutaneous  ultrasonic  flow  detector.  J.A.M.A.  199:  104-06. 
Strandness,  D.  E.,  Jr.,  and  Bell,  J.  W.  1965.  Peripheral  vascular  disease:  diagnosis 
and  objective  evaluation  using  a  mercury  strain  gauge.  Ann.  Surg.  (Suppl.) 
161:3-35. 


6 


Wounds  of  Joints 

Colonel  Anthony  Ballard ,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 


HISTORICAL  BACKGROUND 

Joint  injuries  have  traditionally  presented  a  great  challenge  to  physicians.  Dur¬ 
ing  the  American  Civil  War  over  3,000  cases  of  knee  joint  injuries  were  recorded. 
The  extremity  was  amputated  in  70  percent,  and  53  percent  died.  Open  joint 
wounds  during  that  conflict  were  treated  with  hot  packs  and  immobilization  of  the 
joint  (MSHWR  1883). 

Early  in  the  U.S.  involvement  in  World  War  I,  American  surgeons  treated  joint 
wounds  by  debridement,  irrigation  with  antiseptic  solutions,  and  immobilization  until 
the  wounds  healed.  While  this  approach  reduced  mortality  from  chronic  infections,  it 
resulted  in  many  complications.  By  the  end  of  the  conflict,  surgeons  had  noted  that 
this  treatment  caused  fibrous  ankylosis  of  many  joints  and  that  sterilizing  the  joints 
with  antiseptics  was  not  possible.  In  fact,  many  of  the  solutions  used  for  sterilization, 
such  as  ether  or  a  buffered  aqueous  solution  of  sodium  hypochlorite  containing  23 
percent  active  chlorine  (Dakin's  solution),  were  harmful  to  the  synovial  lining  of  the 
joints.  The  use  of  indwelling  intra-articular  catheters  to  drain  joints  was  discontinued 
when  it  was  observed  that  catheters  were  causing  intra-articular  damage. 

World  War  I  surgeons  also  closed  joint  wounds  whenever  possible,  after  which 
they  immobilized  the  limb  for  eight  to  ten  days  before  beginning  a  passive  range  of 
motion  with  massage.  This  step  partially  solved  the  problem  of  stiff  joints  secondary 
to  prolonged  immobilization.  Although  additional  treatment  measures  significantly 
reduced  the  infection  rate,  it  still  remained  a  major  concern  (MD-WW  1927, 317-41). 

Immediately  after  the  war,  a  Belgian  surgeon.  Dr.  Charles  Willems,  proposed  a 
completely  different  method  of  treating  joint  wounds,  especially  those  already  in¬ 
fected.  He  contended  that  there  was  no  effective  way  of  establishing  adequate 
drainage  in  an  immobilized  joint,  despite  the  numbers  or  kinds  of  incisions  or  intra- 
articular  drains  employed.  He  advocated  wide  arthrotomy,  intra-articular  debride¬ 
ment,  and  immediate  mobilization  of  the  joint,  thus  allowing  the  wounds  to  close  by 
second  intention.  He  emphasized  that  the  active  joint  motion  that  was  needed  could 
not  be  replaced  by  passive  motion.  His  results  were  exceptionally  good.  Of  20  cases 
so  treated,  there  were  no  amputations,  no  deaths,  1  joint  resection,  3  residual  anky- 
losed  joints,  and  16  with  good  to  normal  motion.  This  method  of  treatment,  while 
proven  superior,  required  close  supervision  of  the  patient  and  was  painful.  Although 
a  number  of  orthopedic  surgeons  practiced  this  method  after  World  War  I,  it  gradu¬ 
ally  disappeared  as  a  treatment  regimen  in  the  United  States  (Willems  1919)  (fig.  35). 

The  surgeons  of  World  War  II  were  fortunate  to  have  the  sulfas  as  effective 
chemotherapeutics  and,  later  in  the  conflict,  some  antibiotics.  The  standard  treat- 


108 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  35. — The  Willem’s  technique  of  active 
joint  motion  in  the  presence  of  open  wounds  is 
also  applicable  to  the  elbow.  Skin  traction  to 
the  forearm  maintains  elevation  and  the  elbow 
in  nearly  full  extension.  The  patient  actively 
flexes  the  joint  and  with  relaxation  of  muscula¬ 
ture  the  elbow  returns  to  full  extension. 


WOUNDS  OF  JOINTS 


109 


no 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


ment  for  uninfected  joints  was  thorough  debridement,  closure  of  the  wounds,  instil¬ 
lation  of  penicillin  into  the  joint,  and  immobilization  with  splints  or  casts.  Aspira¬ 
tion  of  the  joint  and  instillation  of  antibiotics  were  carried  out  through  a  window  in 
the  cast.  This  regimen  was  continued  as  long  as  significant  effusion  persisted.  The 
wound  was  immobilized  for  ten  to  fourteen  days  after  wound  closure,  and  then  an 
active  program  of  joint  mobilization  was  initiated.  The  overall  results  from  this 
treatment  method  were  good.  In  one  series  of  198  knee  joint  wounds  so  treated,  the 
incidence  of  infection  was  5.4  percent.  Complete  joint  destruction  from  infection 
occurred  in  only  2  percent  (MD-OSMTO  1957,  235). 

OVERALL  POLICY  IN  THE  TREATMENT 
OF  JOINT  WOUNDS 

Early  in  the  Vietnam  conflict,  the  method  of  joint  wound  care  varied  with  the 
previous  experience  of  the  treating  surgeon.  Since  few  surgeons  spent  longer  than 
one  year  in  Vietnam  and  the  receiving  PACOM  (Pacific  Command)  or  CONUS 
(continental  United  States)  hospitals  provided  little  feedback,  the  ability  of  the  sur¬ 
geon  treating  the  fresh  joint  wound  to  assess  potential  treatment  results  was  poor. 
Judging  from  the  fragmentary  reports  available,  complications  and  morbidity  in¬ 
creased  for  the  first  two  months  after  the  usual  summer  rotation  “hump,”  when  ex¬ 
perienced  surgeons  left  to  be  replaced  by  new  draftees  from  CONUS.  The  most 
consistently  followed  treatment  guidelines  available  were  probably  those  outlined 
in  the  NATO  Handbook,  “Emergency  War  Surgery”  (1958).  These  called  for  early 
debridement  through  standard  arthrotomy  incisions  or  conversion  of  the  wound  to 
an  appropriate  approach  to  allow  for  wide  exposure  of  the  intra-articular  struc¬ 
tures.  All  blood  clots,  foreign  debris,  and  loose  bone  or  cartilage  fragments  were  re¬ 
moved.  The  capsule  or  synovium  was  dosed  whenever  possible,  but  the  skin  was 
left  open  and  the  wound  closed  later  (DOD-EWS  1958,  238-40). 

By  the  mid-1960s,  the  failings  of  the  NATO  Handbook’s  approach  were  becoming 
apparent.  Surgeons  found  that  following  the  guidelines  frequently  resulted  in  a  signif¬ 
icant  complication  rate  and,  contrary  to  the  handbook  s  warning,  exposed  cartilage 
did  not  rapidly  become  necrotic.  Thus,  after  1966,  many  joint  wounds  were  left  open 
until  delayed  primary  closure  5  to  7  days  later.  Closure  was  then  done  whenever  pos¬ 
sible,  and  the  joint  was  immobilized  in  appropriate  splints  or  plaster  casts  for  trans¬ 
portation  to  another  medical  facility.  Mobilization  of  the  joint  was  generally  begun  10 
to  15  days  after  the  wound  was  closed.  Systemic  antibiotics,  usually  20  million  units  of 
intravenous  penicillin  a  day,  were  continued  for  10  to  14  days  after  wounding. 

In  May  1967  in  an  attempt  to  evaluate  and  standardize  treatment  of  war 
wounds,  representatives  of  all  three  services  met  in  what  subsequently  became 
known  as  the  CINCPAC  Conferences  on  War  Surgery.  The  first  of  these,  held  at  the 
John  Hay  Air  Base  in  the  Philippines,  included  orthopedic  surgery  representatives 
from  CONUS,  Hawaii,  the  Philippines,  Japan,  and  Vietnam.  In  general,  this  study 
group  subscribed  to  the  treatment  principles  of  wounded  joints  as  described  in  the 
NATO  Handbook  (1958). 

A  method  employed  by  Maj.  John  Feagin  at  the  85th  Evacuation  Hospital  in 
Vietnam  aroused  some  interest  (CINCPAC-1  1967,  38-39).  His  treatment  consisted 


WOUNDS  OF  JOINTS 


111 


ol  tight  closure  of  the  debrided  joint  over  two  catheters.  Aqueous  penicillin  was  in¬ 
stilled  through  a  continuous  drip  at  5  million  units  a  day  and  evacuated  through  the 
second  catheter  by  gravity  drainage.  Surgeons  also  examined  another  and  similar 
method  for  treating  knee  joints  that  had  sustained  significant  tissue  damage,  sec¬ 
ondary  to  penetrating  wounds.  After  thorough  debridement  of  the  wounded  joint, 
the  capsule  and  synovium  were  tightly  closed,  and  a  perforated  polyethylene 
catheter  was  placed  through  separate  stab  wounds.  The  entrance  of  this  catheter 
was  superior,  laterally,  into  the  suprapatellar  pouch,  and  the  exit  was  anteromedial, 
just  below  the  joint  line.  The  skin  was  left  open  unless,  because  of  loss  of  synovium 
or  capsule,  skin  suture  was  required  to  seal  the  joint.  Through  the  catheter  system, 
5  million  units  of  penicillin  in  2.400  cc.  of  normal  saline  were  run  through  the  joint 
every  24  hours.  The  egress  catheter  was  clamped  for  one-half  hour  every  4  hours  to 
ensure  optimum  lavage  of  the  joint.  The  catheter  system  was  continued  until  the 
wound  was  closed  at  5  to  7  days.  (Feagin  1966,  CINCPAC-2  1968,  71). 

Both  of  these  methods  were  later  found  to  have  several  drawbacks:  patients 
could  not  be  transported  while  the  catheters  were  in  place,  catheters  were  fre¬ 
quently  blocked,  several  known  instances  of  complete  synovial  necrosis  were 
thought  to  be  caused  by  antibiotics,  and  gram-negative  bacteria  were  cultured  from 
the  egress  catheter  (Feagin  1966,  Whelan  1968).  As  a  result,  the  second  Conference 
on  War  Surgery  recommended  the  deletion  of  the  catheter  method  for  the  initial 
treatment  of  joint  wounds.  The  study  group  also  suggested  loose  closure  of  the  syn¬ 
ovium  at  five  to  seven  days  with  split-thickness  grafts  or  skin  flaps,  although  pri¬ 
mary  closure  was  possible  if  the  soft  tissue  had  been  avulsed.  The  group  recognized 
that  the  joint  function  salvage  rate  would  be  low  (less  than  25  percent)  using  these 
methods  (CINCPAC-2  1968,  71).  The  recommendations  from  the  fifth  and  final 
CINCPAC  surgical  conference  pertaining  to  joint  injuries  differed  very  little  from 
those  of  the  previous  conferences  (CINCPAC-5  1971,  44). 

WOUNDS  OF  THE  KNEE 

The  knee,  a  large,  weightbearing,  and  poorly  protected  joint,  is  subject  to  injury 
in  any  highly  active  population.  Such  injuries  account  for  a  large  portion  of  the 
surgery  done  by  military  orthopedic  surgeons.  The  combat  soldier  is  usually  even 
more  active  than  his  brother  in  training;  thus  his  knee  is  more  subject  to  similar 
closed  injuries.  Patients  with  closed  injuries,  such  as  meniscal  disruption,  ligamen¬ 
tous  sprains,  patellar  fractures,  or  dislocations  were  rapidly  evacuated  to  PACOM 
and  CONUS  hospitals  for  appropriate  treatment.  Arthrotomy  of  knees  with  these 
types  of  injuries  was  discouraged  in  Vietnam,  since  return  to  duty  as  an  effective 
combat  soldier  required  weeks  or  months  of  rehabilitation.  An  accurate  record  of 
numbers  and  types  of  joint  injuries  and  the  final  results  of  treatment  is  unavailable. 
Therefore,  the  information  that  follows  in  this  section  is  anecdotal  in  nature. 

Treatment  of  open  wounds  of  the  knee  began  on  the  battlefield  when  the  unit 
aidman  applied  a  compression  dressing.  Since  helicopter  evacuation  was  usually 
readily  available,  the  patient  was  generally  at  a  hospital  within  two  hours.  He  seldom 
had  to  wait  more  than  a  total  of  four  hours  from  the  time  of  wounding  until  defini- 


112 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


tive  surgery.  Rapid  evacuation  and  early  definitive  treatment,  probably  more  than 
any  other  factor,  favorably  influenced  the  results  obtained  in  treating  knee  wounds. 

Upon  arrival  in  the  hospital  receiving  area,  the  patient  underwent  appropriate 
resuscitative  measures  and  the  start  of  intravenous  fluids.  He  also  usually  received 
20  million  units  of  penicillin,  and  roentgenograms  of  his  knee  were  obtained  before 
he  was  taken  to  the  operating  room. 

Operating  room  procedure  included  the  initiation  of  anesthesia,  usually  spinal  or 
general,  and  the  application  of  pneumatic  tourniquets.  The  extremity  was  shaved  and 
washed  with  an  antiseptic  detergent  solution  circumferentially,  from  hip  to  ankle.  The 
entire  extremity  was  draped  free.  For  small  fragment  or  puncture  wounds,  anatomical 
arthrotomy  approaches  gained  access  to  the  interior  of  the  joint.  The  wound  area  of 
skin,  subcutaneous  tissue,  and  capsule  were  debrided  of  a  small  amount  of  tissue,  but 
the  interior  was  examined  through  a  formal  arthrotomy  approach.  For  large  soft  tis¬ 
sue  wounds,  the  wound  was  extended  sufficiently,  both  proximally  and  distally,  to 
allow  identification  and  protection  of  normal  anatomical  structures  and  visualization 
of  damaged  intra-articular  tissues.  During  this  process,  later  reconstruction  of  the 
joint  was  kept  in  mind.  All  loose  intra-articular  fragments  of  bone  and  cartilage  were 
removed,  and  fragmented,  torn,  or  detached  menisci  were  excised. 

The  joint  was  irrigated  with  copious  amounts  (2,000  to  3,000  cc.)  of  sterile  saline 
or  antibiotic  solution.  An  attempt  was  made  to  reduce  major  intra-articular  fractures, 
but  they  were  not  internally  fixed  at  the  time  of  initial  debridement.  Large  attached 
bone  fragments  were  cleansed  of  all  obvious  debris  and  reduced,  if  possible.  Gener¬ 
ally,  curettes  and  syringe  irrigation  were  used  in  the  debridement  of  large  bone  frag¬ 
ments.  In  some  hospitals,  however,  a  dental-type  pulsating  water  jet  system  was  used, 
an  approach  that  gave  rise  to  considerable  controversy  since  some  believed  that  the 
high  pressure  jet  drove  the  contaminants  further  into  the  bone  and  soft  tissue  planes, 
while  others  concluded  that  it  mechanically  removed  them  from  the  area. 

Before  mid-1966,  surgeons  in  Vietnam  closed  the  joint  synovium,  the  capsule,  or 
both  when  there  was  sufficient  tissue,  but  left  the  remainder  of  the  wound  open.  In 
July  1966,  however,  information  began  to  filter  back  to  them  that  the  knee  wounds 
in  which  neither  had  been  closed  at  the  initial  surgery  were  in  better  condition  on 
arrival  at  the  PACOM  hospitals  than  those  in  which  either  the  capsule  or  the  syn¬ 
ovium  had  been  closed.  These  reports  indicated  that  approximately  15  percent  of 
those  knees  in  which  the  synovium  or  the  capsule  had  been  closed  initially  had  to  be 
reexplored  at  the  time  of  anticipated  delayed  primary  closure  because  of  joint  effu¬ 
sion  and  suspected  infection.  In  response,  after  initial  debridement,  Vietnam  sur¬ 
geons  left  an  increasing  number  of  knee  joints  open,  and  dressed  the  wounds,  first 
with  a  layer  of  fine  mesh  gauze  and  then  with  a  bulky  occlusive  dressing. 

Fractures  were  dealt  with  by  applying  a  cylinder  cast  which  was  immediately  bi- 
valved  for  later  air  evacuation.  Where  no  major  intra-articular  damage  was  sus¬ 
tained,  a  bulky  soft  pressure  dressing  was  applied,  and  medial  and  lateral  plaster 
splints  were  placed  over  the  dressing,  secured  in  place  with  elastic  bandages. 

After  immediate  treatment  in  Vietnam,  most  patients  with  knee  wounds  were 
flown  to  offshore  PACOM  hospitals  in  the  Philippines,  Japan,  Okinawa,  or  Hawaii 
within  7  days  after  injury.  Frequently,  the  patients  arrived  dehydrated  and  exhausted 
from  the  prolonged  trip  through  the  evacuation  system.  The  first  24  to  36  hours  were 
spent,  therefore,  in  general  resuscitation  of  the  patient,  unless  the  clinical  findings  indi- 


WOUNDS  OF  JOINTS 


113 


cated  the  presence  of  an  active  infection.  In  these  instances,  the  patient  was  taken  to 
the  operating  room  on  the  day  of  arrival  for  wound  inspection  and  appropriate  care. 

The  remainder  of  the  patients  were  not  taken  to  the  operating  room  until  24  to  36 
hours  after  arrival  at  the  offshore  hospital.  With  the  patient  under  spinal  or  general 
anesthesia,  the  dressings  were  removed,  the  extremity  was  washed  with  an  iodine-de¬ 
tergent  solution,  and  the  wound  was  examined.  If  the  synovium  and  capsule  had  been 
previously  closed  and  no  significant  joint  effusion  was  encountered,  the  wound  was 
closed  by  suture  of  the  retinaculum  and  skin.  If  the  synovium  and  capsule  had  been  left 
open,  the  interior  of  the  joint  was  inspected,  irrigated  with  saline  solution,  and  closed  in 
layers.  Penicillin  (1  to  2  million  units)  was  instilled  into  the  joint  before  closing. 

Postoperative  care  for  the  knee  joint  wounds  without  major  intra-articular  damage 
was  similar  to  that  of  elective  arthrotomies.  After  10  days,  the  bulky  pressure  dressing 
or  plaster  cylinder  cast  and  sutures  were  removed  and  range  of  motion  and  quadriceps 
strengthening  exercises  instituted.  After  remaining  in  the  offshore  hospital  for  14  to  21 
days,  these  patients  were  sent  to  a  CONUS  hospital  for  further  rehabilitation. 

In  those  cases  where  soft  tissue  loss  made  closure  with  local  tissue  unfeasible,  split¬ 
thickness  skin  grafts  were  used  to  cover  the  area.  In  very  few  cases,  skin  flaps  were  em¬ 
ployed  to  cover  a  wound.  In  knee  joint  injuries  with  major  unstable  intra-articular  frac¬ 
tures,  internal  fixation  with  multiple  Kirschner  or  Steinmann  pins  was  attempted  at  the 
time  of  the  delayed  primary  closure.  Experience  showed  that  if  one  waited  until  the 
wounds  were  healed,  the  bone  fragments  would  have  undergone  marked  osteoporotic 
changes,  making  secure  internal  fixation  impossible.  The  fragment  was  likely  to  have 
partially  healed  in  a  poor  position  and,  when  motion  was  instituted,  the  dense  periar¬ 
ticular  adhesions  that  had  formed  might  prove  stronger  than  the  osteoporotic  bone  of 
the  joint.  Therefore,  after  internal  fixation,  the  joint  was  left  open  and  a  bulky  occlu¬ 
sive  dressing  applied.  The  limb  was  kept  elevated  in  a  suspended  Thomas  splint  with 
Pierson  attachment  for  5  to  7  days,  then  reinspected  in  the  operating  room  with  the  pa¬ 
tient  anesthetized.  The  wound  was  closed  if  it  was  clinically  free  of  infection  and  if  suf¬ 
ficient  soft  tissue  remained  to  allow  suture  of  the  wound.  If  these  conditions  did  not 
permit  closure,  it  was  delayed  another  10  to  14  days,  at  which  time  a  split-thickness 
skin  graft  was  applied.  These  patients  were  generally  retained  in  the  offshore  hospitals 
for  30  to  60  days  before  evacuating  them  to  CONUS. 

When  solid  internal  fixation  was  achieved,  gentle  active  and  passive  flexion  ex¬ 
tension  exercises  were  instituted  within  a  few  days,  postoperatively.  Usually  this  re¬ 
sulted  in  a  functional  early  motion  of  the  knee,  although  late  realignment  of  the 
bony  architecture  rarely  produced  a  functional  joint. 

To  assess  accurately  the  results  of  treating  war  injuries  of  the  knee  joint,  one 
would  need  to  follow  the  injuries  from  initial  treatment  to  final  disposition.  However, 
in  the  Vietnam  conflict,  many  men  with  minor  wounds  were  treated  in-country  or  at 
offshore  hospitals  and  later  returned  to  duty.  Others  succumbed  to  associated  in¬ 
juries.  Since  accurate  data  of  this  nature  are  not  available,  the  results  of  treating  a  se¬ 
ries  of  knee  joint  patients  received  at  one  general  hospital  are  presented  below.  All  of 
these  patients  were  followed  to  a  final  disposition.  However,  one  must  keep  in  mind 
that  this  is  a  skewed  series,  representing  primarily  the  more  serious  joint  wounds. 

From  January  1968  through  December  1970, 70  patients  with  knee  wounds  incurred 
in  Vietnam  were  treated  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  (table  6).  Twenty-eight  injuries 
were  caused  by  gunshot  wounds,  38  wounds  by  fragments,  and  4  puncture  wounds  by 


114 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


punji  sticks.  Ten  patients  had  infected  knees  at  the  time  of  admission  to  Fitzsimons.  Of 
the  total  of  70  patients,  52  (74  percent)  were  returned  to  active  duty  and  18  (26  percent) 
were  discharged  because  of  residuals  from  the  knee  injury.  At  the  time  of  final  disposi¬ 
tion,  56  (80  percent)  of  the  knees  had  from  90  to  130  degrees  of  motion,  10  (14  percent) 
had  from  60  to  90  degrees,  and  4  (6  percent)  had  less  than  60  degrees. 

As  would  be  expected,  the  knees  that  had  sustained  intra-articular  fractures  did 
not  fare  as  well  as  those  that  did  not  (table  7).  Twenty-eight  (40  percent)  knees  had 
sustained  major  intra-articular  damage  varying  from  total  disruption  of  the  articu¬ 
lar  surfaces  to  a  furrow  plowed  through  one  of  the  surfaces  by  the  wounding  device. 
Twenty  of  the  fractures  were  caused  by  gunshot  wounds  and  8  by  metal  fragments. 
Fifteen  (54  percent)  of  the  patients  returned  to  duty  and  13  (46  percent)  were  dis¬ 
charged  because  of  knee  function  impairment.  Because  of  the  greater  velocity  of 
the  missile,  the  gunshot  wounds  generally  caused  greater  disruption  of  the  joint 
and,  therefore,  more  serious  impairment.  Fifty  percent  of  the  patients  with  intra-ar¬ 
ticular  fractures  secondary  to  gunshot  wounds  and  37  percent  of  those  with  intra-ar¬ 
ticular  fractures  caused  by  metal  fragments  were  disabled  at  discharge.  The  28  cases 
with  intra-articular  fractures  accounted  for  13  of  the  18  discharged  related  to  knee 
residual  impairment.  In  3  of  the  remaining  5  cases,  the  disability  was  secondary  to 
ligamentous  instability,  and  2  had  marked  limitation  of  motion  from  infection. 

The  actual  number  of  knee  joint  wounds  that  eventually  became  infected  is  not 
available,  but  to  most  orthopedic  surgeons  who  served  in  Vietnam,  PACOM,  and 
CONUS  hospitals,  it  appeared  that  this  was  not  a  common  complication.  The  knee 
wounds  that  were  recognized  as  infected  at  the  time  of  reexploration  for  delayed 
primary  closure  were  further  debrided,  irrigated,  and  left  open  for  reinspection  3  to 
5  days  later.  If  the  wound  appeared  clean  at  that  time,  it  was  closed,  systemic  antibi¬ 
otics  were  continued  for  14  to  21  days,  and,  where  applicable,  an  active  range  of 
motion  was  started  in  10  to  14  days. 

In  the  presence  of  continued  infection,  one  of  two  courses  was  followed.  One 
approach  called  for  immobilizing  the  extremity  in  extension,  leaving  the  wound 
open  to  drain,  and  administering  appropriate  systemic  antibiotics  until  the  infection 
appeared  quiescent.  After  this  had  been  achieved,  wound  closure  was  again  at¬ 
tempted  by  whatever  method  necessary,  most  often  by  a  split-thickness  skin  graft. 
When  the  joint  appeared  quiescent,  motion  was  instituted.  Where  infection  or  the 
initial  wounding  agent  had  destroyed  the  joint,  subsequent  surgery  was  done  to  se¬ 
cure  a  solid  bony  ankylosis,  which  was  commonly  accomplished  with  a  Charnley- 
type  compression  device  (Charnley  and  Lowe  1958).  This  system  allowed  early  am¬ 
bulation  during  fusion.  At  one  CONUS  hospital,  for  9  patients  with  destroyed  knee 
joints,  surgeons  attempted  to  secure  bony  ankylosis  with  compression  clamps  and 
plaster  immobilization  without  surgical  excision  of  the  remaining  cartilage  and  sub¬ 
chondral  bone.  This  goal  was  achieved  in  only  1  case.  The  other  8  had  residual  mo¬ 
tion  of  the  joint  after  removal  of  the  clamps  (Bailey  and  Burkhalter  1971 ). 

The  second  approach  involved  a  modified  Willems'  regimen  (Ballard  et  al.  1975). 
This  method  used  wide  arthrotomy,  usually  employing  both  medial  and  lateral  para¬ 
patellar  incisions  because  in  several  early  cases  where  only  the  medial  incision  was 
used,  lateral  subluxation  of  the  patella  occurred.  Through  these  incisions,  the  joint 
was  thoroughly  inspected  and  debrided  of  loose  tissue  fragments  and  other  debris. 
Careful  attention  was  paid  to  the  synovium  as  it  was  incised.  Purulent  material  exud- 


WOUNDS  OF  JOINTS 


115 


ing  from  its  cut  edges  indicated  abscess  formation  within  the  structure,  making  syn¬ 
ovectomy  necessary.  Synovectomy  was  also  carried  out  if  the  synovium  encroached 
upon  the  articular  surfaces  or  in  any  way  blocked  joint  motion.  To  complete  the  syn¬ 
ovectomy,  the  incisions  were  extended  proximally  along  the  interior  edges  of  the 
vastus  medialis  and  lateralis  muscles.  This  provided  access  to  all  but  the  most  poste¬ 
rior  portion  of  the  synovial  tissue,  which  usually  was  left  behind.  The  menisci  were 
not  excised  unless  severely  damaged  by  the  initial  trauma  or  subsequent  infection. 
The  infrapatellar  fat  pad  was  not  excised  unless  obviously  grossly  infected. 


Table  6. — Final  disposition  of  patients  with  knee  wounds 


Number 

Returned 

Wounding  device  Knees  Percent  to  duty  Percent  Discharged  Percent 

Gunshot .  28  40  18  65  10  35 

Fragments .  38  54  30  79  8  21 

Punji  stick .  4  6  4  100  0  0 

Total .  70  100  52  74  18  26 


Table  7. — In  fluence  of  intra-articular  fractures  on  final  results 
Cases  with  Intra-articular  Fractures 


Number 

Discharged 

Returned  with 

Wounding  device  Knees  Percent  to  duty  Percent  disability  Percent  Infected  Percent 


Gunshot .  20  71  10  50  10  50  2  10 

Fragments .  8  21  5  63  3  37  1  12 

Total .  28  40  15  54  13  46  3  11 


Cases  without  Intra-articular  Fractures 


Gunshot  .  .  .  . .  8  —  8  100  0  —  0 

Fragments .  30  —  25  83  5  17  1  3 

Punji  stick .  4  —  4  100  0  —  0  — 


Total .  42  —  37  88  5  12  1 


After  the  knee  had  been  reexplored  and  a  culture  obtained  both  from  the  syn¬ 
ovial  fluid  and  a  macerated  fragment  of  synovium,  a  broad-spectrum  antibiotic  was 
given,  intravenously,  throughout  the  remainder  of  the  surgery  and  thereafter  for  at 
least  48  hours.  Oral  antibiotics  were  then  given  until  the  erythrocyte  sedimentation 
rate  had  returned  to  normal.  Organisms  identified  in  the  cultures  determined  the 
antibiotics  prescribed.  Antibiotics  were  adjusted  according  to  the  results  of  periodic 
cultures  of  the  effluent  joint  fluid  throughout  the  remainder  of  the  postoperative 
course.  Usually  the  antibiotics  were  discontinued  in  3  to  4  weeks  (fig.  36). 


116 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


WOUNDS  OF  JOINTS 


117 


Figure  36. — Infection  following  penetrating  in¬ 
juries  of  the  knee  without  significant  fractures 
were  best  treated  by  active  motion  in  the  pres¬ 
ence  of  an  open  wound.  Without  effusion  there 
was  little  deterrent  to  considerable  range  of 
motion.  Secondary  wound  healing  was  allowed. 


118 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


After  surgical  debridement,  the  wounds  were  left  open  on  both  sides.  Fine  mesh 
gauze  was  placed  over  the  incisions,  followed  by  a  bulky  pressure  dressing,  and  the  in¬ 
jured  extremity  was  kept  elevated  continuously  for  12  hours.  Next,  the  bulky  dressing 
was  replaced  by  a  smaller  absorptive  dressing  to  allow  knee  motion.  Active-assistive  ex¬ 
ercises  of  the  knee  were  then  carried  out  with  the  patient  standing  at  the  bedside.  Pa¬ 
tients  with  stable  intra-articular  fractures  were  encouraged  to  ambulate  on  crutches 
with  partial  weightbearing.  Unless  this  was  done,  the  posterior  aspect  of  the  knee  would 
act  as  a  sump  for  the  purulence  in  the  knee.  During  his  ambulation,  the  patient  was  re¬ 
quired  to  use  active  knee  motion.  This  program  necessitated  close  supervision  of  the 
patient's  activity  until  he  had  obtained  70  degrees  of  flexion,  which  normally  occurred 
within  the  first  week.  If  this  amount  of  flexion  had  not  been  achieved  in  7  days,  the  knee 
was  manipulated  under  anesthesia,  and  the  regimen  of  knee  motion  was  reinstituted. 

Wounds  were  allowed  to  close  by  granulation.  This  usually  took  4  to  6  weeks  but 
in  some  instances  it  required  more  than  4  months.  Normally  the  wounds  closed  in 
from  both  ends.  A  small  fistula  remained,  most  frequently  on  the  medial  side  of  the 
knee.  Eventually  this  fistula  was  closed.  Irrigation,  chemical  debridement,  antibi¬ 
otic  installation,  application  of  drains  or  wicks,  or  attempts  at  early  closure  were  not 
done  in  wounds  treated  by  this  method. 

Thirty-four  adult  patients  with  pyogenic  arthritis  of  the  knee  were  treated  at  sev¬ 
eral  medical  facilities  by  this  modified  Willems'  regimen  from  1967  to  1972.  Nineteen 
of  these  cases  were  secondary  to  open  wounds  of  the  joint  sustained  in  combat,  8 
were  postoperative  infections,  and  7  were  hematogenous  pyogenic  arthritis.  Staphy¬ 
lococcus  aureus  was  cultured  from  26  knees.  Staphylococcus  epidermidis  from  4 
knees.  Pseudomonas  aeruginosa  from  2  knees,  and  Neisseria  gonorrhoeae  from  2 
knees.  The  infection  was  eradicated  in  all  34  patients,  with  no  recurrences  during  the 
follow-up  period.  A  subtotal  synovectomy  was  done  in  14  of  the  patients  in  this  series. 
This  procedure  was  reserved  for  patients  with  severe  synovial  involvement,  not  nec¬ 
essarily  those  with  the  most  damaged  cartilage.  The  results  were  graded  good,  fair,  or 
poor,  according  to  the  findings  at  the  first  recorded  follow-up  examination. 

A  good  result  meant  that  the  knee  was  asymptomatic,  had  more  than  90  degrees 
of  motion,  and  did  not  interfere  with  the  patient’s  activity.  A  fair  result  meant  that 
the  knee  was  only  mildly  painful,  and  had  either  30  to  90  degrees  of  motion  or 
caused  some  restriction  of  activity,  or  both.  A  poor  result  meant  that  there  was 
more  than  mild  pain  in  the  knee  and  either  less  than  30  degrees  of  motion  or  the  pa¬ 
tient's  activity  was  markedly  restricted,  or  both  (Ballard  et  al.  1975). 

In  19  patients  with  open  infected  wounds  sustained  in  combat,  the  results 
achieved  were  7  good,  6  fair,  and  6  poor.  The  7  good  results  were  in  patients  who  had 
not  sustained  fractures  in  the  joint  or  who  had  no  major  damage  to  the  articular  car¬ 
tilage  from  the  wounding  agent.  Of  the  6  patients  with  fair  results  in  this  group,  2  had 
fractures  in  the  joint,  2  had  moderate  cartilage  damage  from  the  injury,  1  had  a 
below  knee  amputation  on  the  same  side,  and  1  had  a  below  knee  amputation  on  the 
contralateral  side.  Of  the  6  patients  who  had  poor  results,  2  had  surgical  arthrodeses 
that  resulted  in  solid  bony  fusion  and  a  painless  extremity,  2  had  spontaneous  anky¬ 
losis  of  the  knee  (1  bony  and  1  fibrous — both  resulting  in  a  painless  extremity),  and 
the  other  2  had  residual  motion  of  20  degrees  with  intermittent  pain  on  ambulation. 

Three  of  the  8  patients  with  postoperative  knee  infections  obtained  good  results. 
The  results  of  the  other  5  were  fair.  A  good  result  was  achieved  in  6  or  7  patients  with 


WOUNDS  OF  JOINTS 


119 


hematogenous  pyogenic  arthritis.  Pyogenic  arthritis  in  the  adult  knee  was  not  a  serious 
threat  to  life  or  limb,  but  preservation  of  the  joint  remained  a  serious  challenge  to  the 
treating  physician  (Jergesin  and  Jarvetz  1963).  By  using  wide  arthrotomies  and  early  ac¬ 
tive  motion  of  the  knee  joint,  the  joint  could  be  more  thoroughly  evacuated  of  purulent 
material  than  when  allowed  to  drain  in  an  immobilized  position,  regardless  of  the  num¬ 
ber  of  incisions.  After  the  joint  was  still  for  a  few  hours,  the  first  active  flexion  of  the 
knee  caused  a  large  quantity  of  exudate  to  spurt  from  the  wound.  More  fluid  was  evac¬ 
uated  as  the  knee  was  subsequently  put  through  its  range  of  motion.  As  the  knee  was 
flexed  actively,  the  quadriceps  pressed  on  the  suprapatellar  pouch.  In  addition,  with  ac¬ 
tive  extension,  the  posterior  compartment  was  also  compressed.  In  some  cases,  active 
motion  caused  dispersion  of  the  infection,  but  when  the  knee  joint  was  completely 
open,  the  fluid  was  evacuated  rather  than  spread  to  the  extra-articular  tissues.  In  our 
patients,  no  sinus  tracts  developed  and  no  contiguous  osteomyelitis  occurred  (fig.  37). 

Joint  infections  started  and  spread  in  the  synovial  membrane  and  subsequently  in¬ 
vaded  the  joint  cavity.  Therefore,  it  seemed  logical  to  remove  the  infected  tissue,  if 
the  involvement  was  extensive  and  beyond  the  ability  of  the  host  to  eradicate  the  in¬ 
fection.  before  it  destroyed  the  joint.  Although  Albertin.  a  French  surgeon,  first  sug¬ 
gested  the  use  of  synovectomy  for  the  treatment  of  pyogenic  arthritis  in  1896,  little 
was  reported  subsequently  about  this  procedure.  Kelly  and  associates  from  the  Mayo 
Clinic  (1970)  reported  one  case  of  an  infected  elbow'  in  which  synovectomy  was  done, 
but  only  after  ankylosis  had  occurred.  This  procedure  seemed  to  be  as  worthwhile  in 
fourteen  patients  with  severe  synovial  involvement  but  with  less  than  severe  cartilage 
damage  as  it  was  when  used  for  those  with  more  severely  involved  joints. 

The  fate  of  the  articular  cartilage  exposed  to  prolonged  suppuration  was  not 
predictable  in  this  series  of  patients.  Twenty-one  of  the  26  patients  with  Staphylo¬ 
coccus  aureus  infection  were  infected  for  more  than  seven  days.  Eight  of  these  had 
a  good  result.  The  prolonged  exposure  of  articular  cartilage  in  a  wound  that  re¬ 
mained  open  up  to  six  months  concerned  us,  since  with  our  method  of  treatment — 
open  arthrotomy  and  early  active  motion — the  articular  cartilage  was  frequently 
visible  for  several  weeks,  in  one  instance  for  three  months.  We  had  an  opportunity 
to  look  at  the  articular  cartilage  after  the  infection  had  healed  and  the  wound  had 
closed  in  tw;o  patients  who  happened  to  require  reconstruction  of  the  patellar  ten¬ 
don  because  of  persistent  laxity  about  two  years  after  the  episode  of  pyogenic 
arthritis.  The  cartilage  appeared  smooth  and  shiny  with  no  gross  erosion,  but  it  was 
slightly  thinned.  A  biopsy  from  the  intercondylar  area  in  one  patient  showed  no  mi¬ 
croscopic  abnormalities.  Although  the  eventual  outcome  of  this  treatment  regimen 
cannot  be  ascertained,  the  early  results  appeared  promising. 

WOUNDS  OF  THE  HIP 

Open  wounds  of  the  hip  joint  constituted  another  major  problem.  Hip  joint 
wounds  were  frequently  associated  with  damage  to  the  adjacent  abdominal  and 
pelvic  contents  or  to  nerves  and  vessels  of  the  thigh.  These  wounds  were  always  se¬ 
rious  and  carried  with  them  a  high  rate  of  morbidity  and  mortality. 

The  femoral  head,  because  of  its  peculiar  blood  supply,  leads  a  most  precarious 
existence  in  the  human  body.  When  the  femoral  neck  is  severely  fractured,  axascular 


120 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  37. — This  saggital  diagram  of  a  knee  in  partial  flexion  shows  in  orange  the  spaces 
that  sequester  effusion  and  purulent  material.  Active  quadrups  exercises,  with  anterior 
open  wounds  in  the  prone  position,  collapse  the  spaces  and  allow  free  drainage. 


WOUNDS  OF  JOINTS 


121 


necrosis  of  the  femoral  head  occurs  in  almost  all  cases.  When  a  high-velocity  missile 
insults  the  head  or  neck  and,  at  times,  passes  into  the  abdomen,  contaminating  the 
joint  both  from  within  and  without  the  body,  the  chance  of  survival  of  that  joint  is  nil. 

Although  most  orthopedic  surgeons  treating  casualties  during  the  Vietnam  con¬ 
flict  were  familiar  with  multiple  approaches  to  the  hip  joint,  the  precarious  state  of 
the  patients  who  had  sustained  abdominal  and  vascular  injuries  frequently  miti¬ 
gated  against  an  initial  thorough  debridement  of  the  hip.  Abdominal  and  vascular 
injuries  always  took  priority  in  the  treatment  plan.  After  abdominal  exploration  or 
vascular  repair,  the  patient’s  condition  was  frequently  too  poor  to  withstand  a  major 
surgical  procedure  on  the  hip.  Despite  this,  if  the  eventual  morbidity  was  to  be  re¬ 
duced,  thorough  debridement  of  the  hip  had  to  be  carefully  performed  as  soon  as 
the  patient  was  stabilized.  Failure  to  do  this  was  largely  responsible  for  the  high 
morbidity  associated  with  hip  joint  wounds. 

Since  accurate  data  for  hip  joint  wounds  in  the  Vietnam  conflict  were  not  available, 
this  section  is  confined  to  recommendations  for  treatment  of  these  wounds  (Thompson 
and  Omer  1954)  and  results  obtained  from  records  in  one  of  the  CONUS  hospitals. 

Penetrating  wounds  involving  the  hip,  pelvis,  and  lower  abdomen  were  com¬ 
monly  treated  by  combined  teams  of  general,  urologic,  and  orthopedic  surgeons.  In 
general,  small  bowel  wounds  were  treated  by  appropriate  debridement  and  closure. 
Colonic  and  rectal  injuries  were  usually  treated  with  exteriorization  and  open  loop 
colostomies.  When  deemed  essential  to  healing,  presacral  drainage  was  done 
through  the  presacral  space  and  exited  posteriorly  through  an  opening  created  by  a 
coccygectomy.  In  those  cases  involving  penetrating  wounds  through  the  lateral 
bony  pelvis  or  hip  joint  plus  lower  bowel,  the  bones  and  joints  invariably  became 
infected  if  this  type  of  drainage  was  not  provided  (Christy  1972). 

All  penetrating  wounds  of  the  hip  joint  required  posterior  arthrotomy  and 
drainage,  but  exploration  of  the  hip  joint  or  ilium  required  the  anterior  approach 
for  adequate  exposure.  The  requirement  of  combined  anteroposterior  hip  joint  ap¬ 
proaches,  therefore,  necessitated  placing  the  patient  in  a  lateral  position  on  the  op¬ 
erating  table.  A  Kirschner  wire  or  Steinmann  pin  was  placed  through  the  proximal 
tibia  so  that  the  lower  extremity  could  be  suspended  from  overhead  in  a  moderately 
abducted  position.  The  pin  was  used  for  subsequent  traction  as  well.  The  entire 
thigh,  hip,  hemitrunk,  and  thorax  were  shaved  and  washed  with  antiseptic  deter¬ 
gent,  and  the  lower  extremity  was  drape-free. 

The  anterior  iliofemoral  approach,  extended  proximally  and  posteriorly  along 
the  iliac  crest  as  necessary,  provided  the  best  exposure  to  the  hip  joint,  inner  wall  of 
the  acetabulum,  and  both  sides  of  the  ilium.  If  possible,  the  existing  wound  of  en¬ 
trance  or  exit  was  incorporated  into  this  approach.  If  not,  debridement  was  accom¬ 
plished  separately,  following  the  criteria  of  removing  all  possible  contaminants  and 
necrotic  tissue.  The  hip  joint  capsule  was  opened  with  a  “T”  incision,  the  transverse 
portion  of  which  paralleled  the  acetabular  rim.  All  loose  fragments  of  bone  and  car¬ 
tilage  were  removed  from  the  joint.  If  the  femoral-tractured  neck  had  been  tran¬ 
sected  within  the  capsule  and  it  was  obvious  that  the  blood  supply  to  the  temoral 
head  had  been  destroyed,  the  free  fragment  of  the  femoral  head  and  neck  was  ex¬ 
cised.  Failure  to  do  this  at  the  primary  debridement  only  ensured  further  infection 
and  prolonged  morbidity.  The  joint  was  copiously  irrigated  with  saline  to  flush  out 
clot  and  contaminants.  If  the  posterior  capsule  had  been  penetrated,  the  damaged 


122 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


edges  were  excised.  If  the  posterior  capsule  had  not  been  penetrated,  a  window  was 
created  in  this  structure  to  allow  for  posterior  drainage.  When  the  wounding  agent 
had  penetrated  the  ilium  or  acetabulum,  both  inner  and  outer  walls  were  debrided, 
preferably  through  the  anterior  approach.  The  necrotic  muscle  clothing  both  sides 
of  the  ilium  was  excised,  and  bone  edges  were  rongeured  or  curetted  to  free  them 
from  contaminants.  If  it  had  been  advisable  to  leave  the  femoral  head  in  place,  no 
internal  fixation  of  the  fracture  was  done  at  the  initial  debridement. 

If  the  incision  had  been  extended  to  expose  the  anterior  superior  portion  of  the  iliac 
crest,  this  portion  of  the  wound  was  closed  primarily,  because  retraction  of  the  muscles 
made  subsequent  coverage  of  this  portion  of  the  ilium  difficult  or  impossible.  The  re¬ 
mainder  of  the  anterior  incision,  as  well  as  wounds  of  entrance  or  exit,  were  left  open. 
Posterior  drainage  was  provided  by  a  gluteal  muscle-splitting  incision.  The  sciatic  nerve 
was  identified  and  carefully  protected  during  this  approach.  The  gemellus  and  obtura¬ 
tor  muscles  were  transected  at  their  insertion  into  the  greater  trochanter  and  allowed  to 
retract.  A  large  catheter  was  placed  adjacent  to  the  posterior  capsular  opening  and 
brought  out  through  the  gluteal  muscle  and  skin  incisions.  Fine  mesh  gauze  was  placed 
over  the  wounds  and  covered  by  an  occlusive  dressing.  A  one-and-one-half  hip  spica 
cast  was  applied,  and  the  tibial  pin  used  for  skeletal  traction  was  incorporated  in  the 
cast.  The  cast  was  bivalved,  and  appropriate  windows  were  made  in  the  anterior  por¬ 
tion  to  accommodate  evaluation  and  care  of  abdominal  or  lower  pelvic  problems. 
These  patients  were  normally  kept  in  a  hospital  in  Vietnam  until  the  intra-abdominal 
injuries  and  repairs  were  sufficiently  healed  to  allow  safe  air  evacuation  to  a  PACOM 
or  CONUS  hospital.  Usually,  this  period  ranged  from  ten  to  fourteen  days  after  injury. 

Treatment  at  PACOM  and  CONUS  hospitals  consisted  of  removing  the  cast;  in¬ 
specting  the  wounds  under  anesthesia  in  the  operating  room;  redebridement  when 
indicated  by  evidence  of  infection  or  residual  necrotic  tissue;  and  closing  the  anterior 
wounds  if  no  infection  was  evident.  Drains  were  removed  from  the  posterior 
wounds.  Usually,  this  site  was  allowed  to  heal  by  secondary  intention.  Granulating 
exit  or  entrance  wounds  that  could  not  be  closed  with  suture  of  local  tissue  were  cov¬ 
ered  with  split-thickness  skin  grafts.  Use  of  rotating  skin  flaps  was  generally  avoided. 

Data  are  not  available  to  allow  accurate  assessment  of  the  treatment  of  hip  joint 
wounds  incurred  in  Vietnam,  but  the  experience  of  one  CONUS  general  hospital  is 
probably  representative  of  the  overall  results.  Records  are  available  for  19  patients 
with  open  wounds  to  the  hip  area  admitted  to  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  from 
1967  to  1971. 

Open  fracture  of  the  acetabulum  or  ilium  extending  into  the  acetabulum  was  sus¬ 
tained  by  7  of  the  19  patients  in  this  series.  In  only  1  of  these  was  major  damage  done 
to  the  acetabulum.  Five  of  these  patients  developed  an  infection  that  required  2  or 
more  subsequent  surgical  procedures.  Four  of  the  5  with  infections  had  associated  in- 
trapelvic  or  intra-abdominal  injuries  with  bowel  or  bladder  involvement.  In  2  of  these 
patients,  the  hip  joint  was  eventually  destroyed  by  the  infection.  The  other  3  infec¬ 
tions  resolved  without  major  damage  to  the  hip  joints.  Two  of  this  group  of  patients 
sustained  a  complete  lesion  of  a  major  nerve,  1  femoral  and  1  sciatic.  In  neither  case 
was  repair  at  subsequent  exploration  feasible.  Three  of  this  group  of  patients  were  re¬ 
turned  to  duty,  while  4  were  medically  retired  from  the  service  as  unfit  for  active  duty. 

Seven  of  the  19  patients  had  open  extracapsular  fractures  of  the  proximal  end  of 
the  femur.  Six  were  comminuted  intratrochanteric  fractures,  and  1  was  at  the  base 


WOUNDS  OF  JOINTS 


123 


of  the  neck  of  the  femur.  Two  of  these  patients  developed  infections  that  required  3 
or  more  subsequent  surgical  procedures.  Three  developed  malunion  of  the  fracture, 
which  compromised  gait  and  hip  motion.  One  patient,  with  the  basilar  neck  frac¬ 
ture,  developed  a  nonunion  requiring  late  internal  fixation,  but  eventually  healed 
with  a  good  result.  Two  of  this  group  had  complete  sciatic  nerve  injuries  without  re¬ 
turn  of  function  after  three  years.  One  patient  was  a  paraplegic  secondary  to  frag¬ 
ment  wounds  of  the  spinal  cord,  another  had  a  small  bowel  laceration,  and  a  third 
later  had  a  urethral  transection.  Of  the  group,  3  returned  to  duty  with  a  limited  duty 
profile,  and  4  were  medically  retired.  None  of  these  patients  suffered  hip  joint  de¬ 
struction  secondary  to  infection. 

Five  of  the  19  patients  sustained  open  intracapsular  fractures  of  the  femur,  but  the 
femoral  head  was  not  excised  at  the  initial  debridement  in  any  of  these  cases.  All  5 
developed  avascular  necrosis  of  the  femoral  head.  Four  of  the  5  had  prolonged  infec¬ 
tions  that  resolved  only  after  removal  of  the  dead  infected  head.  Although  the  fifth 
patient  did  not  develop  an  infection  of  the  hip  joint,  the  femoral  head  was  removed 
because  of  avascular  necrosis.  Two  of  these  patients  sustained  injuries  to  the  sciatic 
nerve,  1  completed  and  1  with  peroneal  involvement  only.  Neither  of  the  nerve  le¬ 
sions  resolved.  The  infection  in  3  of  the  4  cases  cleared  after  removal  of  the  femoral 
head  and  debridement  of  the  joint.  The  other  patient  required  3  subsequent  opera¬ 
tive  debridements  before  the  infection  finally  resolved.  In  4  of  these  cases.  Ring 
metallic  prostheses  were  used  to  reconstruct  the  joint  three  to  twelve  months  after 
the  infection  had  resolved  clinically  and  radiographically.  In  the  fifth  case,  a  custom- 
built  all-metallic  femoral  head  neck  and  metallic  acetabulum  replaced  essentially  the 
entire  top  end  of  the  femur  as  well  as  the  destroyed  acetabulum.  In  3  cases,  the  Ring 
prosthesis  loosened  within  two  years  of  emplacement,  resulting  in  pain  and  joint  dys¬ 
function.  In  each  of  these  cases,  the  Ring  prosthesis  was  removed  and  replaced  with  a 
metal-plastic  prosthesis  cemented  to  the  femur  and  acetabulum.  At  the  time  of  the 
second  reconstructive  procedure,  cultures  from  the  hip  joint  were  negative  for  growth 
in  all  instances.  These  patients  were  followed  from  three  to  five  years,  and  in  no  case 
was  a  subsequent  infection  of  the  joint  found.  All  patients  retained  an  excellent  range 
of  motion  in  a  relatively  painless  joint.  None  required  or  used  external  support  for 
ambulation.  All  5  of  these  patients  were  medically  retired  from  active  duty.  This 
method  of  reconstruction  was  not  standard.  Time  will  determine  whether  it  should  be 
considered  a  feasible  alternative  to  joint  resection  or  arthrodesis  in  the  young  active 
person  with  a  destroyed  hip  joint  secondary  to  an  open  combat  injury. 


WOUNDS  OF  THE  SHOULDER 

Open  injuries  of  the  shoulder  and  upper  arm  were  associated  with  a  high  incidence 
of  neurovascular  damage,  which  frequently  proved  to  be  the  most  disabling  factor  in 
the  patient’s  injury.  In  addition,  head,  neck,  and  chest  wounds  were  commonly  associ¬ 
ated  with  combat  wounds  of  the  shoulder  joint.  The  care  ol  these  associated  lite- 
threatening  injuries  always  took  priority  over  the  treatment  ol  the  shoulder  joint 
wounds.  Tandem  treatment  teams  cared  for  these  multiple  injuries,  with  the  appropri¬ 
ate  neurologic,  vascular,  thoracic,  or  general  surgeon  first  taking  care  ol  the  other  in¬ 
juries  that  did  not  involve  the  extremities.  The  orthopedic  surgeon  then  debrided  ex- 


124 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


tremity  wounds,  including  those  of  the  joints.  Perhaps  peculiar  to  the  military  surgeon 
of  the  Vietnam  War  was  the  custom  of  making  the  orthopedist  responsible  for  the  ini¬ 
tial,  and  frequently  subsequent,  treatment  of  the  injured  nerves  in  the  extremities. 

Whether  rendered  in  the  field  by  a  corpsman  or  in  a  hospital,  the  initial  treat¬ 
ment  of  the  shoulder  wound  resembled  that  of  any  other  injury.  Once  in  the  operat¬ 
ing  room,  the  surgeons  addressed  suspected  injuries  in  order  of  priority.  There, 
under  general  anesthesia,  usually  via  endotracheal  tube,  the  patient  was  positioned 
in  a  lateral  or  semilateral  position;  the  shoulder  girdle,  neck,  hemithorax,  and  upper 
limb  were  washed  with  an  appropriate  antiseptic  solution;  and  a  sterile  drape  was 
applied,  with  the  upper  extremity  drape-free.  An  effort  was  made  to  pack  the 
wound  with  a  sterile  sponge  during  the  surgical  preparation  of  the  area  to  prevent 
further  contamination  as  the  remainder  of  the  extremity  and  adjacent  parts  were 
cleansed.  Anatomic  anterior  or  posterior  or  both  approaches  incorporated  the 
wound,  where  possible,  into  the  incision.  If  neurological  or  major  vascular  struc¬ 
tures  had  been  damaged,  the  nerves  and  vessels  were  first  identified  in  an  area  re¬ 
mote  from  the  wound  and  then  traced  to  the  site  of  damage.  This  prevented  inad¬ 
vertent  further  damage  during  the  surgical  exploration.  When  the  brachial  plexus 
or  subclavian  vessels  had  been  damaged  by  the  traversing  missile,  resection  of  por¬ 
tions  of  the  clavicle  was  sometimes  necessary  to  gain  access  to  these  structures. 

The  principles  of  debridement  emphasized  in  other  sections  of  this  book  were 
followed  in  treating  shoulder  wounds.  A  minimal  amount  of  damaged  skin  was  re¬ 
moved.  Fascia,  because  of  its  poor  blood  supply  and  potential  source  of  infection, 
was  liberally  excised  and  incised  to  gain  exposure  to  the  deep  structures.  However, 
because  muscle  tissue  was  absolutely  critical  to  future  shoulder  stability  and  mo¬ 
tion,  the  real  key  to  successful  debridement  was  surgical  judgment  of  viability  of 
shoulder  muscle  tissue.  If  necrotic  muscle  was  left  behind,  it  served  as  a  perfect  cul¬ 
ture  medium  for  bacteria;  yet  overzealous  excision  of  viable  muscle  reduced  the  po¬ 
tential  for  joint  function,  since  the  shoulder  joint  depends  so  extensively  upon  the 
rotator  cuff  for  its  stability  and  motion. 

The  criteria  of  muscle  viability — color,  contractility,  consistency,  and  capillary 
bleeding — all  served  as  useful  guidelines  in  the  course  of  debridement,  with  muscle 
consistency  the  most  dependable.  Nonviable  muscle  rapidly  lost  its  firm  rubbery 
consistency  and  became  mushy,  friable,  and  readily  fragmented  when  grasped  with 
tissue  forceps. 

Commonly  the  joint  was  exposed  through  the  interval  between  the  anterior  del¬ 
toid  and  pectoralis  major  muscles.  The  conjoined  tendons  of  the  short  head  of  the 
biceps,  coracobrachialis,  and  pectoralis  minor  muscles  were  transected  at  the  cora¬ 
coid  process  and  retracted  medially  and  distally  to  allow  greater  exposure  of  the 
joint  and  better  protection  of  the  musculocutaneous  nerve.  The  tendon  of  the  sub- 
scapularis  muscle  was  incised  and  this  muscle  retracted  medially  to  expose  the  un¬ 
derlying  capsule,  which  was  trimmed  carefully  to  preserve  as  much  substance  as 
possible  to  assist  in  the  future  stability  of  the  shoulder.  All  small  loose  fragments  of 
bone  and  cartilage  were  excised,  while  larger  bone  fragments  with  soft  tissue  at¬ 
tachments  were  carefully  cleansed  of  visible  contaminants  and  preserved.  If  the 
humeral  head  was  completely  devoid  of  soft  tissue  attachment  and  was  lying  as  a 
loose  free  fragment  in  the  joint,  it  was  excised  and  discarded.  Attempts  to  save  this 
necrotic  fragment  of  bone  to  aid  in  future  reconstructive  procedures  were  ill  ad- 


WOUNDS  OF  JOINTS 


125 


vised.  Such  attempts  frequently  led  to  chronic  infection  of  the  joint,  additional  loss 
of  bone  substance,  and  further  compromise  of  future  reconstructive  procedures. 

In  perforating  wounds,  a  separate  posterior  approach  was  required  to  complete 
the  debridement.  When  possible,  the  incision  incorporated  the  wound  but,  more  im¬ 
portantly,  anatomic  approaches  were  followed  so  that  undamaged  tissue  could  be 
identified  and  protected.  Access  to  the  posterior  shoulder  was  achieved  by  removing 
the  posterior  fibers  of  the  deltoid  from  the  spine  of  the  scapula  and  incising  the  in¬ 
fraspinatus  and  teres  minor  tendons  from  the  greater  tuberosity  of  the  humerus. 
Whenever  possible,  the  supraspinatus  tendon  was  left  intact,  since  it  is  probably  the 
most  important  member  of  the  rotator  cuff  in  providing  shoulder  stability  during  ac¬ 
tive  motion  of  this  joint.  After  surgical  trimming  of  the  contaminated  and  necrotic 
tissues,  the  joint  was  left  open  and  dressed  with  fine  mesh  gauze  placed  loosely  over 
the  wounds.  A  bulky  absorptive  dressing  was  applied,  and  the  limb  was  secured  to 
the  body  with  a  Velpeau-type  soft  dressing,  reinforced  for  transportation  with  a  plas¬ 
ter  cast.  The  cast  was  usually  suspended  from  the  opposite  shoulder,  which  con¬ 
tributed  to  the  comfort  of  the  patient.  Internal  fixation  of  fractures  was  not  done 
during  this  initial  stage  of  wound  care.  Early  in  the  conflict  it  was  found  that  drains 
were  not  a  good  substitute  for  leaving  the  wound  open,  and  their  use  was  con¬ 
demned  by  members  of  the  CINCPAC  surgical  conference  in  1967  (CINCPAC-1 
1967).  Rather  than  facilitating  drainage,  they  actually  blocked  the  egress  of  fluid 
from  the  depths  of  the  wound,  inviting  further  infection  and  tissue  destruction. 

Patients  with  shoulder  wounds  and  without  other  serious  injuries  were  evacuated  to 
an  offshore  hospital  two  to  three  days  after  the  initial  debridement.  Those  with  compli¬ 
cating  head,  neck,  chest,  or  abdominal  injuries  were  retained  in  the  initial  hospital  for 
observation  for  an  additional  seven  to  ten  days.  Since  shoulder  wounds  were  associated 
with  significant  blood  loss  that  rendered  the  patient  quite  incapable  of  withstanding  a 
prolonged  airplane  ride  sitting  comfortably  or  safely,  patients  with  significant  shoulder 
wounds  were  usually  transported  through  the  evacuation  system  on  a  litter. 

At  five  to  seven  days  after  initial  wound  debridement,  the  patient  was  returned  to 
the  operating  room,  the  dressings  were  removed,  and  the  wounds  were  inspected 
under  general  anesthesia.  Further  necessary  debridement  was  then  carried  out.  If  the 
wounds  appeared  clean  at  this  second-look  procedure,  the  joint  was  closed,  tendons 
were  reattached  where  possible,  and  a  delayed  primary  closure  of  the  skin  was  done. 
When,  because  of  tissue  loss,  skin  closure  was  not  possible,  split-thickness  skin  grafts 
were  used  or  the  wound  was  left  open  to  heal  by  secondary  intention.  Pedicle  or  local 
rotation  flaps  were  rarely  used,  except  for  cases  where  coverage  of  nerves  or  major 
vessels  was  necessary.  If  the  wounds  were  clean,  appropriate  internal  fixation  devices 
were  used  to  stabilize  major  fracture  fragments  at  this  second-look  procedure. 

Early  motion  of  the  shoulder  was  encouraged  in  all  instances  where  future  joint 
function  was  considered  to  be  feasible  and  the  stability  of  the  fracture  fragments 
was  such  that  this  could  be  done.  This  motion  was  commonly  initiated  at  seven  to 
ten  days  after  the  second-look  procedure.  A  collar  and  cuff  sling  provided  part  of 
the  support  for  the  upper  extremity.  With  the  sling  in  place,  the  patient  bent  for¬ 
ward  from  the  waist,  allowing  the  arm  to  hang  perpendicular  tiom  the  tiunk,  and 
with  the  assistance  of  a  physical  therapist,  he  put  the  arm  through  an  increasing 
range  of  abduction,  flexion,  extension,  and  circumduction.  Perhaps  because  ot  the 


126 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


extensive  scarring  of  the  accompanying  open  wounds  of  the  shoulder,  surprisingly 
few  of  these  patients  developed  subsequent  problems  with  recurrent  dislocations. 

When  sepsis  of  the  joint  was  suspected,  the  patient  was  returned  to  the  operating 
room  as  many  times  as  necessary  for  further  cleansing  of  the  joint  and  to  ensure  ade¬ 
quate  drainage.  The  infected  wound  was  left  open,  and  active  motion  was  encouraged  to 
assist  in  the  evacuation  of  the  collected  fluid  from  the  joint.  Systemic  antibiotics  were 
continued  until  clinical  evidence  of  sepsis  was  no  longer  present,  and  frequently  until  the 
erythrocyte  sedimentation  rate  had  returned  to  normal.  From  1967  to  1969,  surgeons 
also  attempted  to  prevent  or  control  wound  infection  of  many  areas,  including  the  shoul¬ 
der  joint,  by  instilling  local  antibiotics  through  a  suction  irrigation  system.  A  solution  of 
1,000  units  per  ml.  bacitracin,  1  percent  neomycin,  and  0.1  percent  polymixin  B  was  in¬ 
stilled  by  constant  drip  into  the  joint  and  evacuated  either  continuously  or  periodically, 
with  a  suction  machine.  Although  this  regimen  was  sometimes  efficacious  in  controlling 
local  infection,  it  carried  with  it  considerable  risk  of  systemic  toxicity,  especially  in 
wounds  such  as  the  shoulder  joint,  where  large  areas  of  muscle  tissue  were  bathed  by  the 
solution  and  absorbed  it  into  the  bloodstream.  A  number  of  cases  of  partial  nephro-  and 
ototoxicity  were  attributed  to  this  treatment  method.  Therefore,  in  January  1968,  Col. 
Thomas  Whelan,  surgical  consultant  to  CINCPAC,  distributed  a  communique  to  all  hos¬ 
pitals  in  PACOM  advising  discontinuance  of  this  method  of  treatment. 

In  the  patients  with  total  destruction  of  the  humeral  head  or  glenoid  or  both,  the 
limited  available  ways  to  handle  the  problem  were  resection  arthroplasty,  shoulder 
fusion,  and  prosthetic  replacement  of  the  upper  portion  of  the  humerus.  The  pros¬ 
thetic  replacements  were  rarely  applicable  to  the  treatment  of  combat  wounds  of  the 
shoulder.  They  depended  upon  the  reconstruction  of  the  rotator  cuff  for  their  stabil¬ 
ity,  and  this  structure  had  usually  become  so  scarred  and  contracted  by  the  time  the 
shoulder  was  ready  for  reconstruction  that  prosthetic  replacements  could  not  be  used. 

Partial  resection  arthroplasty  of  the  shoulder  was  the  most  common  treatment 
method  during  the  patient’s  initial  hospitalization.  This  procedure  provided  for 
some  motion  but  was  frequently  associated  with  residual  pain  and  weakness  that 
precluded  heavy  lifting  or  other  vigorous  use  of  the  upper  extremity.  However,  be¬ 
cause  of  the  heavy  workload  at  the  military  hospitals  and  the  desire  of  many  pa¬ 
tients  to  leave  the  hospital  at  the  earliest  possible  date,  many  with  severely  dam¬ 
aged  shoulders  were  discharged  after  their  partial  resection  arthroplasty.  A  better 
functional  result  could  probably  have  been  achieved  by  a  shoulder  arthrodesis. 

Shoulder  arthrodesis  was  considered  the  most  effective  way  of  treating  patients  with 
severely  damaged  shoulder  joints.  Multiple  methods  of  achieving  this  goal  were  used. 
Most  incorporated  three  steps.  First,  all  remaining  cartilage  was  excised  from  both  sides 
of  the  joint.  Second,  the  humerus  was  securely  fixed  to  the  remaining  scapula  with 
metallic  devices.  Finally,  an  extra-articular  bone  graft  was  frequently  added  by  placing 
the  outer  end  of  the  osteotomized  acromion  into  the  remaining  top  end  of  the  humerus 
or  by  a  method  preferred  by  a  number  of  surgeons,  the  modified  Brittain  posterior 
scapulohumeral  arthrodesis,  in  which  a  bone  graft  was  inserted  between  the  humerus 
and  the  scapula.  Brittain  (1952,  168-76)  used  an  arrow-shaped  tibial  graft  inserted  into 
the  humerus  and  notched  to  straddle  the  axillary  border  of  the  scapula.  He  recom¬ 
mended  arthrodesis  of  the  shoulder  in  80  degrees  of  abduction,  30  degrees  of  internal 
rotation,  and  40  degrees  of  forward  flexion.  This  standard  salute  position  was  also  rec¬ 
ommended  by  the  research  committee  of  the  American  Orthopedic  Association  in 


WOUNDS  OF  JOINTS 


127 


1942.  It  was  used  extensively  in  the  treatment  of  flail  shoulders  secondary  to  birth  in¬ 
juries  and  poliomyelitis  in  children  and  was  usually  quite  satisfactory  for  these  condi¬ 
tions  (Barr  et  al.  1942).  This  position,  however,  was  not  without  difficulty  in  the  adult,  as 
has  been  pointed  out  by  Rowe  ( 1974)  and  Davis  and  Cottrell  ( 1962).  The  excessive  ab¬ 
duction  and  forward  flexion  resulted  in  winging  of  the  scapula,  a  prominent  medial  bor¬ 
der  of  the  scapula,  chronic  stain  of  the  scapulothoracic  muscles,  and  neck  pain. 

The  shoulder  arthrodesis  method  preferred  by  the  surgeons  at  Fitzsimons  Gen¬ 
eral  Hospital  used  a  tricortical  iliac  graft  fashioned  to  fit  in  the  arc  formed  by  the 
humeral  metaphvsis.  lower  edge  of  the  glenoid,  and  the  adjacent  area  of  the  scapula. 
This  procedure  was  done  through  the  posterior  approach  described  by  Kocher 
(1911.  1:322-23).  The  shorter  iliac  graft  was  made  possible  by  the  different  position 
in  which  the  shoulder  wa's  fused.  The  most  satisfactory  shoulder  arthrodesis  position 
in  the  adult  was  to  abduct  the  arm  to  20  to  30  degrees  from  the  side  of  the  body,  for¬ 
ward  flexed  30  degrees,  and  internally  rotated  40  degrees.  From  this  position  the  pa¬ 
tient  was  able  to  reach  his  hand  to  his  face  by  scapulothoracic  motion  and  elbow 
flexion.  He  could  also  reach  his  hip  area  without  difficulty.  From  this  position,  the 
patient  was  also  able  to  do  heavy  work  that  could  not  be  done  from  the  abducted  po¬ 
sition.  which  depends  upon  the  scapulothoracic  muscles  for  its  maintenance  (fig.  38). 

Despite  the  known  advantages  of  shoulder  arthrodesis  over  shoulder  resection, 
which  allowed  only  limited  motion  frequently  associated  with  pain,  few  shoulder 
arthrodeses  were  done  on  Vietnam  patients  during  their  hospitalization  for  initial 
wound  care.  Probably,  the  surgeons  did  not  urge  for  this  procedure  because  of  their 
already  high  workload  and  the  patient's  usual  desire  to  leave  the  hospital  as  soon  as 
possible.  Whether  subsequent  arthrodeses  were  done  in  these  patients  at  other  fa¬ 
cilities  cannot  be  ascertained. 

From  records  available  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital,  it  is  possible  to  glean 
some  information  on  the  history  of  shoulder  wounds.  Undoubtedly  these  cases  rep¬ 
resent  a  skewed  series,  including  those  patients  with  severe  wounds  of  the  shoulder 
as  well  as  the  complicating  associated  injuries.  For  40  of  these  patients,  sufficient 
records  were  available  to  assess  the  results  of  their  shoulder  wounds  and  subse¬ 
quent  treatment.  All  of  these  were  young  men  between  nineteen  and  twenty-five 
years  old.  Twentv-three  had  sustained  gunshot  wounds  in  the  shoulder  region.  The 
remaining  17  shoulder  wounds  were  secondary  to  metallic  fragments  from  explo¬ 
sive  devices.  Nine  patients  had  no  injury  other  than  that  of  the  shoulder  joint:  the 
other  31  had  associated  injuries.  Some  patients  had  wounds  in  multiple  other  areas: 

Ipsilateral  upper  extremity  nerves .  1- 

Contralateral  upper  extremity  nerves .  1 

Chest .  1- 

Neck . 

Upper  extremity  (ipsilateral) . 

Upper  extremity  (contralateral) .  - 

Brachial  artery' . 

Head . 

Thigh .  6_ 

Leg .  ^ 


128 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  38. — Arthrodesis  of  the  shoulder  is  possible  without  a  humeral  head  utilizing 
internal  fixation  and  iliac  graft  on  the  compression  side  of  the  fusion  between  glenoid 
and  humeral  shaft. 


WOUNDS  OF  JOINTS 


129 


Of  the  40  patients  with  shoulder  wounds,  20  (50  percent)  were  returned  to  an 
active  duty  status  with  a  functional  shoulder.  The  other  20  patients  were  discharged 
unfit  for  duty.  Nine  patients  were  unfit  because  of  shoulder  dysfunction  secondary 
to  bony  or  soft  tissue  injury  about  the  shoulder,  8  were  unfit  due  to  residual  com¬ 
promise  of  hand  and  forearm  function  caused  by  associated  nerve  injury,  1  patient 
had  an  above  elbow  amputation  resulting  from  vascular  injury,  and  the  remaining  2 
had  normal  shoulders  but  residual  osteomyelitis  from  their  open  tibial  fractures. 

Two  patients  developed  a  shoulder  wound  infection  that  necessitated  further 
surgical  debridement.  In  both  cases  the  wounds  healed  after  the  second  surgery 
without  residual  osteomyelitis  or  further  compromise  of  shoulder  function.  Both  of 
these  patients  were  returned  to  duty.  Of  the  9  patients  with  residual  shoulder  dys¬ 
function,  6  had  sustained  comminuted  intra-articular  fractures  with  loss  of  sub¬ 
stance  of  the  joint,  and  the  remaining  3  had  lost  the  support  of  the  soft  tissue  about 
the  shoulder,  resulting  in  a  flail  joint.  Four  of  these  patients  had  shoulder  arthrode¬ 
ses,  2  during  their  initial  hospitalization  and  the  others  within  2  years  of  discharge. 
Whether  other  patients  discharged  with  residual  shoulder  dysfunction  had  subse¬ 
quent  surgical  procedures  elsewhere  is  not  known. 

Since  the  shoulder  is  a  loose-fitting  enarthrodial  joint  with  a  hemispherical 
humeral  head  rotating  on  a  much  smaller  shallow  glenoid  fossa,  it  can  absorb  con¬ 
siderable  damage  and  still  retain  its  motion  if  its  supporting  muscle  and  capsular 
structures  remain  functional.  The  careful  surgery  done  at  all  levels  in  the  evacua¬ 
tion  chain  resulted  in  the  surprisingly  good  results  that  were  achieved  during  the 
Vietnam  conflict.  The  infection  rate  was  low,  and  the  return  to  duty  of  even  those 
who  had  sustained  significant  injury  was  quite  high.  The  treatment  of  the  severely 
damaged  shoulder  was  by  resection  of  loose  unattached  fragments,  usually  fol¬ 
lowed  by  institution  of  early  motion.  Residual  painful  or  flail  shoulders  were 
treated  subsequently  by  shoulder  arthrodesis,  frequently  using  a  modification  of 
the  extra-articular  arthrodesis  described  by  Brittain  (1952). 

REFERENCES 

Albertin, - .  1896.  De  la  synovectomie  et  de  l'arthrectomie  dans  les  arthrites 

infectieuses  aigues  du  genou  consecutives  aux  plaies  penetrantes  de  cette  articu¬ 
lation.  La  Province  Medicate ,  1896:  195-97,  206-09. 

Bailey,  J.,  and  Burkhalter,  W.  E.  1971.  “Failure  to  obtain  knee  fusion  after  severe 
injury  to  the  knee  joint.  Unpublished  manuscript. 

Ballard,  A.:  Burkhalter,  W.  E.;  Mayfield,  G.  W.;  Dehne,  E.;  and  Brown,  P.  W.  1975. 
The  functional  treatment  of  pyogenic  arthritis  of  the  adult  knee.  J.  Bone  Joint 
Surg.  (Am)  57, 119-23. 

Barr,  J.  S.;  Freiberg,  J.  A.;  Colonna,  P.  C.;  and  Pemberton,  P.  A.  1942.  A  survey  of 
end  results  on  stabilization  of  the  paralytic  shoulder.  Report  on  the  Research 
Committee  of  the  American  Orthopedic  Association.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg.  (Am) 
24:699-707. 

Brittain,  H.  A.  1952.  Architectural  principles  in  arthrodesis.  2d  ed.  Edinburgh:  E.  & 
S.  Livingstone. 

Charnley,  J.,  and  Lowe,  H.  G.  1958.  A  study  of  the  end-results  of  compression 
arthrodesis  of  the  knee.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg.  (Br)  40:  633-35. 

Christy,  J.  P.  1972.  Complications  of  combat  casualties  with  combined  injuries  of  bone 
and  bowel — personal  experience  with  nineteen  patients.  Surgery  71.270-74. 


130 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


CINCPAC-1.  1967.  Commander  in  Chief,  Pacific.  First  CINCPAC  Conference  on 
Surgery.  Tri-service  conference  on  war  surgery  conducted  at  John  Hay  Air  Base, 
Philippines,  20-25  May  1967. 

CINCPAC-2.  1968.  Commander  in  Chief,  Pacific.  Second  CINCPAC  Conference 
on  War  Surgery.  Tri-service  conference  on  war  surgery  conducted  at  John  Hay 
Air  Base,  Philippines,  25-28  March  1968. 

CINCPAC-4.  1970.  Commander  in  Chief,  Pacific.  Fourth  CINCPAC  Conference 
on  War  Surgery.  Tri-service  conference  conducted  on  war  surgery  in  Tokyo, 
Japan,  16-19  February  1970. 

CINCPAC-5.  1971.  Commander  in  Chief,  Pacific.  Fifth  CINCPAC  Conference  on 
War  Surgery  in  Tokyo,  Japan,  29  March-2  April  1971. 

Davis,  G.  L.  1970.  Management  of  open  wounds  of  joints  during  the  Vietnam  War. 
Clin.  Orthop.  68:3-9. 

Davis,  J.  B.,  and  Cottrell,  G.  W.  1962.  A  technique  for  shoulder  arthrodesis.  J.  Bone 
Joint  Surg.  (Am)  44:657-61. 

DOD-EWS — Dept,  of  Defense,  1958. 

Feagin,  J.  1966.  The  treatment  of  penetrating  injuries  of  the  knee  joint  with  signifi¬ 
cant  tissue  destruction.  Unpublished  report.  Headquarters,  85th  Evacuation 
Hospital,  4  Nov  1966. 

Hampton,  O.  P,  Jr.  1957.  Orthopedic  surgery  in  the  Mediterranean  Theater  of  Opera¬ 
tions.  Office  of  The  Surgeon  General,  Department  of  the  Army.  Washington:  GPO. 

Jergesin,  F.,  and  Javetz,  E.  1963.  Pyogenic  infections  in  orthopedic  surgery.  Am.  J. 
Surg.  106:152-62. 

Kelly,  P.  J.;  Martin,  W.  J.;  and  Coventry,  M.  B.  1970.  Bacterial  (suppurative)  arthritis 
in  the  adult.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg.  (Am)  52-4:1595-1602. 

Kocher,  T.  1911.  Textbook  of  operative  surgery,  vol.  1.  New  York:  Macmillan  Co. 

MD-WW — Medical  Department,  U.S.  Army.  The  Medical  Department  of  the 
United  States  Army  in  the  world  war,  vol.  1 1,  pt.  1.  Washington:  GPO. 

MSHWR — U.S.  Surgeon  General's  Office.  1876.  The  medical  and  surgical  history  of 
the  War  of  the  Rebellion.  Washington:  GPO. 

NATO  Emergency  war  surgery  handbook.  1958.  Department  of  Defense.  Washing¬ 
ton:  GPO. 

Rowe,  C.  R.  1974.  Re-evaluation  of  the  position  of  the  arm  in  arthrodesis  of  the 
shoulder  in  the  adult.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg.  (Am)  56:913-22. 

Thompson,  M.  S.,  and  Omer,  G.  E.,  Jr.  1954.  Gunshot  wounds  of  the  hip  joint.  Surg. 
Gynecol.  Obstet.  98:237-40. 

Walton,  S.  1970.  Report  of  Orthopedic  Consultant  visit  to  Republic  of  Vietnam  on 
3-15  April  1970  and  to  5th  Field  Hospital,  U.S.  Army,  Bangkok,  Thailand, 
16-17  April  1970. 

Whelan,  T.  J.,  Jr.  1968.  Ltr,  Col.  T.  J.  Whelan,  Jr.,  to  Lt.  Col.  Clyde  N.  Herrick,  31 
Jan  1968,  sub:  A  Warning  in  the  Use  of  Irrigation  Aspiration  Technique  for  Top¬ 
ical  Neomycin,  Bacitracin  and  Polymixin  B  Administration. 

Willems,  C.  1919.  Treatment  of  purulent  arthritis  by  wide  arthrotomy  followed  by 
immediate  active  mobilization.  Surg.  Gynecol.  Obstet.  28:546-54. 


7 


Vietnam  War  Amputees 

Colonel  Gerald  W.  Mayfield,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 


WOUNDS  AND  WOUNDING  AGENTS 

Wounding  agents  during  the  Vietnam  War  differed  from  those  in  previous  con¬ 
flicts.  In  World  Wars  I  and  II,  and  in  Korea,  artillery  had  been  the  greatest  threat  to 
the  soldier.  In  World  War  II,  land  mines  and  shell  fragments  caused  a  majority  of 
the  wounds  that  resulted  in  amputation  and  were  responsible  for  an  increase  to  5.3 
percent  of  troops  suffering  major  amputations  from  the  2  percent  from  World  War  I 
(Cleveland  and  Shands  1970).  Vietnam  saw  a  significant  shift  in  both  the  character¬ 
istics  and  the  management  of  those  wounds  which  caused  the  loss  of  a  limb.  The 
enemy  had  few  heavy  weapons,  and,  as  a  result,  most  casualties  were  caused  by  rifle 
and  machine  gun  fires,  mines,  and  booby  traps.  Such  weapons  had  inherently 
greater  destructive  potential  than  shell  fragments  and  made  the  proportion  of  limb- 
threatening  wounds  greater.  Of  these,  mines  and  booby  traps,  weapons  that  ex¬ 
ploded  at  very  close  range,  caused  the  greatest  trauma  and  accounted  for  approxi¬ 
mately  55  percent  of  all  amputations  in  one  series.  On  the  other  hand,  gunshot 
wounds  caused  only  8  percent  of  the  amputations  in  the  same  series. 

Although  the  proportion  of  limb-threatening  wounds  was  greater  in  the  Vietnam 
War  than  in  previous  conflicts,  rapid  helicopter  evacuation  from  the  wounding  site 
to  a  surgical  facility  that  could  resuscitate  and  treat  all  wounds  expeditiously  saved 
many  apparently  fatally  wounded  soldiers.  Ironically,  this  success  also  dramatically 
increased  the  proportion  of  survivors  with  multiple  amputations.  Soldiers  with  more 
than  one  extremity  amputated  had  accounted  for  2  percent  of  the  wounded  in  World 
War  I  and  5  percent  in  World  War  II.  But  during  the  Vietnam  War  multiple  extrem¬ 
ity  amputations  rose  to  19  percent  in  one  series  of  415  amputee  patients  and  to  18 
percent  in  a  longitudinal  survey  of  169  amputees.  Many  of  these  ablations  were  the 
result  of  inadequate  vascular  flow  to  the  distal  portion  of  the  extremity. 

Even  in  cases  of  multiple  system  injuries,  surgeons  made  every  effort  to  save  an  ex¬ 
tremity.  Many  facets  of  the  patient’s  condition  were  considered  before  making  the  de¬ 
cision  to  amputate.  Decisions  were  easy  if  the  soldier  arrived  from  the  battlefield  with 
a  completely  nonviable  limb  attached  to  the  proximal  segment  by  a  few  strands  of  tis¬ 
sue,  or  if  there  was  complete  absence  of  the  distal  portion.  In  contrast,  decisions  were 
difficult  if  the  patient  had  a  proximal  wound  with  varying  degrees  of  structural  instabil¬ 
ity,  tissue  viability,  infection,  and  altered  states  of  nerve  and  vascular  supply  to  the  dis¬ 
tal  part.  American  surgeons  usually  practiced  a  conservative  approach  to  amputation, 
believing  that  the  World  War  II  experience  demonstrated  that  reconstruction  of 
severely  injured  extremities  could  be  accomplished  if  surgeons  provided  proper  initial 
debridement,  meticulous  wound  care,  and  appropriate  fracture  management. 


132 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


In  general,  management  paralleled  guidelines  listed  in  the  NATO  Handbook, 
Emergency  War  Surgery  (1958).  However,  deviations  inevitably  evolved.  These  de¬ 
viations  and  their  implications  will  be  discussed  in  the  following  sections  on  man¬ 
agement  of  amputees  in  different  regional  zones  of  treatment. 

MANAGEMENT  OF  PATIENTS  WITH  AMPUTATIONS 

Treatment  in  Vietnam 

Complete  information  concerning  the  management  of  Vietnam  War  amputees 
in  the  United  States  Armed  Forces,  from  the  time  of  injury  to  some  subsequent  sta¬ 
ble  point,  is  not  available.  The  following  narrative  concerning  amputee  manage¬ 
ment  is  a  composite  of  information  gathered  from  published  materials  written  by 
other  orthopedic  surgeons,  a  review  of  hospital  records,  and  personal  observations 
by  surgeons  from  a  number  of  medical  facilities,  including  the  106th  General  Hos¬ 
pital  in  Yokohama,  Japan;  Valley  Forge  General  Hospital  in  Pennsylvania;  and 
Fitzsimons  General  Hospital,  Denver,  Colorado. 

Geographic  factors,  combined  with  fluctuating  patient  loads  from  changing  tac¬ 
tical  situations  in  Vietnam,  had  a  direct  effect  on  the  continuity  of  optimum  man¬ 
agement  of  the  amputee.  Most  commonly  a  helicopter  evacuated  the  patient  from 
the  battlefield  to  a  hospital  for  evaluation  of  the  extremity  and  wound  assessment. 
If  any  distal  portion  of  the  extremity  remained,  the  decision  to  amputate  was  made 
by  or  under  the  guidance  of  an  orthopedic  surgeon. 

.  Subsequent  to  the  amputation,  the  amputee  was  evacuated  from  Vietnam  to  a 
PACOM  hospital  within  a  few  (three  to  ten)  days.  The  time  span  depended  on  his 
general  condition  and  the  efficiency  of  the  evacuation  system.  After  an  intermedi¬ 
ate  stage  of  evaluation  and  treatment  in  a  PACOM  hospital,  where  the  average  stay 
was  fourteen  days,  the  patient  was  evacuated  to  CONUS. 

One  of  the  most  difficult  decisions  in  the  field  of  trauma  surgery  was  whether  to 
amputate  an  intact  extremity  with  massive  loss  of  bone,  muscle,  tendon,  and  nerve 
and  with  a  compromised  circulation.  However,  amputating  at  a  preconceived 
“ideal”  level  was  also  discouraged.  The  ultimate  course  of  treatment  in  the  difficult- 
decision  cases  concerning  amputation  usually  reflected,  at  least  in  the  later  stages  of 
the  evacuation  chain,  a  joint  patient-physician  agreement.  Amputation  for  life- 
threatening  infections  was  performed  occasionally.  However,  their  incidence  was 
lower  in  Vietnam  than  in  previous  conflicts.  Amputation  for  established  gas  gan¬ 
grene  was  rarely  required.  Col.  Raymond  Bagg  reported  in  1977  that  hyperbaric 
oxygen  was  used  successfully  to  avoid  amputation  in  two  cases  of  clostridial  my¬ 
ofascitis  at  the  106th  General  Hospital  in  Japan. 

Replantation  of  a  sharply  severed  extremity  was  popular  in  civilian  practice  dur¬ 
ing  the  late  1960s  and  early  1970s,  but  replantation  was  apparently  never  attempted 
in  the  Vietnam  War.  Replantation  may  not  be  feasible  even  in  future  wars  because 
ot  the  devastating  effects  of  wounding  agents,  nonavailability  of  an  appropriate 
team  and  facilities,  and  the  potential  necessity  for  rapid  evacuation. 

In  the  Vietnam  combat  zone,  open  amputation  was  usually  recommended.  It 
was  performed  at  the  most  distal  point  feasible,  without  regard  to  the  “site  of  elec¬ 
tion.  Surgeons  emphasized  debridement  of  all  nonviable  tissue  and  tried,  if  possi- 


VIETNAM  WAR  AMPUTEES 


133 


ble,  to  leave  viable  flaps.  Frequently  these  flaps  were  irregular  in  contour  and  un¬ 
supported  by  underlying  skeletal  tissue.  Appropriate  support  of  these  flaps  with 
dressings  and  well-applied  skin  traction  was  necessary  to  preserve  the  viability  of 
the  flap.  A  notable  exception  was  the  failure  of  many  primary  Syme’s-type  amputa¬ 
tions.  because  of  necrosis  of  the  heel  pad  portion  of  the  stump. 

Some  stumps  were  closed  in  Vietnam  during  the  delayed  primary  closure  period, 
extending  from  three  to  ten  days  after  injury.  Frequently,  however,  patients  were 
evacuated  from  the  combat  zone  before  the  operating  surgeon  knew  whether  the  de¬ 
layed  primary  closure  was  satisfactory  and  whether  the  wound  had  healed  without 
subsequent  infection  or  flap  necrosis.  The  operating  surgeon  had  no  official  channel 
for  follow  up  on  the  patient’s  condition  after  he  was  evacuated  from  the  combat  zone. 

Blasting-type  injuries  from  mines,  booby  traps,  mortars,  and  grenades  fre¬ 
quently  caused  deep  penetrating  wounds  proximal  to  the  level  of  amputation. 
Blasts  beneath  the  person  caused  foreign  material  to  penetrate  vertically  deep  into 
thigh  and  buttock  muscle  and  frequently  to  reach  the  knee  and  hip  joints.  Areas  of 
deep  contamination  required  additional  longitudinal  incisions  on  the  extremity  for 
adequate  debridement. 

Control  of  arterial  bleeding  occasionally  required  other  incisions  proximal  to 
the  site  of  amputation.  In  above-knee  amputations,  open  fractures  of  the  ipsilateral 
femur  required  debridement  stabilization  by  a  plaster  spica  with  skin  traction  to  the 
stump.  In  the  below-knee  amputations  with  an  associated  femur  fracture,  skeletal 
traction  with  a  tibial  pin  was  accomplished.  Before  evacuation,  a  spica  cast  was  ap¬ 
plied.  incorporating  the  pin  in  the  plaster. 

Immediate  application  and  continuous  use  of  skin  traction  on  the  open  stump  by 
methods  described  during  World  War  II  (MD-OSMTO  1957)  were  used,  but  not  as 
extensively  as  they  should  have  been.  Wilber  (1970)  reported  that,  in  Vietnam,  only  44 
percent  of  300  patients  with  open  amputations  were  treated  initially  with  skin  traction. 
Only  50  percent  of  a  group  of  orthopedic  surgeons  who  cared  for  amputees  at  two  or 
more  echelons  of  evacuation  indicated  that  adequate  skin  traction  was  applied  or 
maintained  during  evacuation.  Each  of  these  surgeons,  however,  stated  that  he  person¬ 
ally  used  skin  traction  in  the  initial  treatment  of  the  amputee,  if  it  could  be  applied. 

The  technique  of  applying  skin  traction  is  critical  to  its  effective  use.  The  NATO 
Handbook  on  Emergency  War  Surgery  (1958)  describes  gluing  stockinette  to  the 
distal  8  inches  of  the  skin  as  a  means  of  applying  traction  to  the  stump.  Application 
of  the  adhesive  material  and  subsequent  traction  to  the  skin  proximal  to  a  point 
only  2  inches  from  the  end  of  the  stump  proved  more  successful,  because  it  in¬ 
creased  the  efficiency  of  the  traction  on  the  most  critical  distal  2  inches  of  the  stump 
and  thus  provided  more  rapid  closure  and  tapering  of  the  stump. 

To  maintain  effective  skin  traction  through  the  healing  phase,  the  weight  and  direc¬ 
tion  of  traction  had  to  be  kept  constant  and  adjusted  only  by  the  physician.  At  the  U.S. 
Army  Hospital.  Camp  Zama,  Japan,  approximately  80  percent  of  the  amputees  arrived 
in  1969  with  the  skin  traction  ineffective.  The  weight  bag  was  invariably  resting  on  the 
evacuation  litter.  On  questioning  personnel  involved  in  the  transfer  of  the  patients  in 
the  evacuation  route,  they  replied  that  the  patients  had  complained  of  pain,  which  was 
eased  by  relieving  the  tension  of  the  swinging  weight  bag  dangling  over  the  litter  pulley. 

In  an  effort  to  overcome  the  swinging  weight  problem,  surgeons  incorporated  a  wire 
ladder  splint  into  a  plaster  spica  for  the  above-knee  amputee.  For  the  below-knee  am- 


134 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


putee,  they  provided  an  above-knee  cast  with  traction  applied  by  means  of  rubber  tub¬ 
ing  extending  between  the  stockinette  and  a  wire  ladder  splint.  The  major  disadvan¬ 
tages  of  this  method  were  difficulty  in  obtaining  the  materials  necessary  to  apply  the  de¬ 
vice  and,  in  some  cases,  having  to  alter  the  device  to  meet  air  evacuation  requirements. 

A  self-contained  centrifugal  pulley  device,  providing  constant  traction,  was  in¬ 
troduced  to  circumvent  the  problems  of  unknown  tensions  and  balkiness  on  the 
wire-ladder-splint-rubber-band  method.  These  devices  never  became  widely  used 
because  they  were  seldom  returned  to  the  initial  treatment  area.  Moreover,  they 
were  often  found  detached  and  not  providing  traction  when  the  amputee  arrived  in 
the  PACOM  hospitals  (fig.  39). 

Immediate  Treatment  in  Offshore  Hospitals 

Although  a  patient  was  occasionally  kept  in  Vietnam  for  a  longer  period  because 
of  other  associated  injuries  so  severe  that  he  could  not  be  evacuated,  the  patient  with 
a  major  amputation  usually  arrived  in  an  offshore  hospital  within  three  to  ten  days 
after  being  wounded.  The  long  flight  to  the  offshore  hospitals  required  multiple 
transfers  that  exhausted  amputees,  who  also  suffered  varying  degrees  of  dehydration 
and  anemia  as  their  bodies  adjusted  to  the  wound  insult  and  subsequent  surgery. 

Shortly  after  the  patients  arrival  at  the  offshore  hospital,  efforts  were  made  to 
correct  any  general  medical  and  fluid  problems.  When  his  condition  was  stabilized 
adequately  (usually  within  forty-eight  hours),  the  amputation  site  was  inspected 
under  general  anesthesia  in  the  operating  room.  Frequently,  redebridement  was 
necessary  to  remove  tissue  that  had  declared  itself  nonviable  since  the  original  de¬ 
bridement.  Proximal  longitudinal  incisions  were  sometimes  necessary  in  both  the 
below-knee  and  above-knee  amputations  for  debridement  of  nonviable  muscle 
from  selective  compartments  in  the  extremity.  The  anterior  compartment  muscles 
of  the  short  or  intermediate  length  below-knee  stump  and  the  adductor  muscle  area 
in  the  above-knee  amputee  were  most  frequently  found  to  be  necrotic. 

After  redebridement,  skin  traction  was  applied.  If  other  injuries  or  medical  con¬ 
ditions  mitigated  against  early  evacuation,  skin  traction  was  maintained  by  weights 
suspended  over  a  pulley  from  the  end  of  the  bed.  When  the  patient  was  likely  to  be 
evacuated  in  the  immediate  future  because  of  abdominal,  chest,  other  extremity,  or 
other  injuries,  a  self-contained  traction  apparatus  was  applied. 

A  notable  change  in  the  management  of  the  amputation  wound  at  the  offshore 
hospital  evolved  during  the  course  of  the  war.  In  1966,  Dr.  Oscar  Hampton  (1966) 
reinforced  the  concept  of  delayed  primary  closure  of  wounds,  including  amputation 
stumps.  At  the  second  CINCPAC  Conference  on  War  Surgery  (CINCPAC-2  1968), 
the  recommendation  was  made  that  an  open  amputation  wound  be  regarded  as  “a 
major  open  war  wound  and  that  at  the  end  of  three  to  seven  days,  it  [would]  be  par¬ 
tially  closed  with  skin  graft  and  the  modified  skin  flaps . . .  sutured  in  the  most  desir¬ 
able  position  without  pinching."  This  advice,  combined  with  other  recommenda¬ 
tions  throughout  the  conference  (such  as  delayed  primary  closure  at  four  to  seven 
days),  was  interpreted  by  some  in  the  offshore  hospitals  as  an  indicator  that  delayed 
primary  closure  should  be  performed  on  all  amputation  stumps,  if  possible.  The  fol- 


VIETNAM  WAR  AMPUTEES 


135 


Figure 39— Continuous  distal  skin  traction  in  open  amputations  prevents  “shrinkage” 
of  skin  and  stabilizes  the  soft  tissue,  increasing  patient  comfort.  Self-contained  contin¬ 
uous  skin  traction  incorporated  a  wire  ladder  into  a  hip  spica  or  long-leg  cast. 


136 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


lowing  paragraphs  reveal  some  observations  about  the  practices  and  results  in  care 
of  the  amputee  in  the  offshore  hospitals. 

In  1966  and  1967,  at  the  hospital  in  Camp  Zama,  a  number  of  delayed  primary 
closures  of  selected  amputation  stumps  were  performed:  Only  stumps  that  had  a 
“clean  appearance,  without  gross  necrosis,  and  were  seen  less  than  10  days  after  am¬ 
putation”  were  closed.  Closure  was  performed  by  or  under  the  direct  supervision  of 
orthopedic  surgeons  only  when  no  more  than  “light”  tension  was  necessary  at  the 
suture  line.  These  patients  stayed  at  the  Zama  Hospital  for  an  additional  10  to  14 
days  to  assure  that  no  significant  stump  problems  developed  before  evacuation. 

Although  no  specific  recorded  data  are  available  concerning  the  outcome  of  this 
particular  group  of  patients,  it  is  our  impression  that  the  majority  of  these  stumps 
remained  closed,  without  debilitating  wound  breakdown.  We  expected  and  ob¬ 
served  only  minor  suture  reactions  and  localized  areas  of  minor  wound  breakdown 
that  did  not  require  major  operative  intervention. 

Subsequent  studies  of  longitudinal  groups  of  patients  treated  at  the  106th  Gen¬ 
eral  Hospital  (Japan)  and  in  CONUS  revealed  that  both  below-knee  and  above¬ 
knee  stumps  treated  by  delayed  primary  closure  required  significantly  shorter  time 
for  fitting  a  final  prosthesis  than  those  treated  by  the  open-wound  method.  This  ob¬ 
servation  may  reflect  a  preselection  of  cases  that  were  left  open  because  of  associ¬ 
ated  injuries  and,  therefore,  would  be  expected  to  take  a  longer  period  for  healing. 

In  an  informal  survey  of  orthopedic  surgeons  caring  for  amputations  at  different 
stages  of  evacuation  throughout  the  war  years,  the  majority  indicated  that  the  earli¬ 
est  means  of  getting  a  closed  stump  which  could  be  fitted  with  a  prosthesis  was  by 
delayed  primary  closure.  However,  despite  this  excellent  experience  with  delayed 
primary  closure,  this  method  presented  difficulties  in  a  forward  zone,  either  in  Viet¬ 
nam  or  offshore,  because  the  operating  surgeon  was  unable  to  follow  the  patient  for 
an  adequate  length  of  time  to  determine  if  satisfactory  healing  occurred.  On  this 
basis,  it  was  recommended,  through  verbal  communication  channels  in  1968,  that 
delayed  primary  closure  not  be  performed  unless  the  patient  was  assured  of  re¬ 
maining  in  the  treating  hospital  for  at  least  14  days  after  closure. 

Conditions  in  CONUS 

Most  amputees  arriving  in  CONUS  hospitals  about  2  to  8  weeks  following  injury 
were  in  better  physical  condition  and  less  fatigued  than  those  patients  arriving  3  to  5 
days  after  injury.  Nevertheless,  depending  on  the  status  of  wounds,  further  examina¬ 
tion  under  anesthesia  with  redebridement  was  necessary  in  some  patients.  The  extent 
of  treatment  leading  to  the  point  of  definitive  stump  healing  and  prosthetic  fitting 
varied  considerably  at  different  times  at  different  institutions,  based  on  many  factors. 

Multiple  amputees  and  thigh  amputees  derived  a  financial  benefit  by  becoming 
medically  retired  as  soon  as  their  general  condition  was  stabilized.  Therefore,  many 
of  these  amputees  were  not  fitted  with  prostheses,  but  were  discharged  from  Army 
Hospitals  to  Veterans  Administration  Hospitals  with  open  wounds,  making  subse¬ 
quent  follow  up  difficult.  Large  numbers  of  casualties  at  certain  times  of  the  war 
stimulated  early  medical  boarding  and  transfer  of  amputees  from  CONUS  active 
duty  hospitals  to  Veterans  Administration  Hospitals.  In  some  CONUS  medical  cen- 


VIETNAM  WAR  AMPUTEES 


137 


ters,  it  was  teasible  to  award  the  patient  a  medical  discharge  from  the  service  and, 
yet,  to  continue  treating  him  as  an  inpatient  under  a  medically  retired  status.  Thus, 
continuity  of  care  was  not  interrupted,  and  the  patient  continued  the  rehabilitation 
program  and  prosthetic  fitting  at  one  institution. 

In  the  course  of  the  Vietnam  War,  no  medical  centers  in  CONUS  were  designated 
as  "Amputee  Centers,”  with  the  possible  exception  of  Valley  Forge  General  Hospi¬ 
tal,  which  was  given  the  authority  on  1  February  1969  to  establish  an  amputee  service 
“to  direct  and  supervise  the  care  of  all  amputees  in  the  hospital”  (LaNoue  1971). 

In  the  majority  of  the  hospitals,  the  amputees  were  not  segregated  onto  a  sepa¬ 
rate  ward  or  into  a  specific  “amputee  service.”  They  were  mixed  with  other  ortho¬ 
pedic  and  trauma  patients  with  a  variety  of  orthopedic  surgical  diagnoses.  In  such  a 
milieu,  rehabilitation  efforts  were  directed  to  the  patient  with  multiple  injuries, 
whether  he  was  an  amputee  or  whether  he  was  otherwise  injured.  In  treatment  cen¬ 
ters  other  than  Valley  Forge,  less  formal  arrangements  were  made  in  which  one  or 
more  staff  members  concentrated  their  efforts  on  the  overall  management  of  the 
amputees.  Due  to  the  high  volume  of  patients  with  amputations,  who  comprised  10 
percent  of  the  orthopedic  census  at  any  one  time,  there  appeared  to  be  no  difficulty 
in  one  amputee  relating  to  another,  although  they  were  on  a  general  trauma  ward. 
The  amputees  usually  benefited  from  this  interaction  with  each  other. 

MANAGEMENT  OF  AMPUTATIONS  CLASSIFIED 
BY  ANATOMICAL  SITE 

Foot  Amputations 

In  managing  foot  amputations,  surgeons  strove  to  preserve  all  available  skeletal 
and  viable  soft  tissue  length.  Omer  and  Pomerantz  (1972)  stressed  the  preservation  of 
as  many  segments  of  the  foot  as  possible.  [In  a  separate  chapter  of  this  volume  Ballard 
also  discusses  amputations  as  related  to  other  injuries  of  the  foot.]  Toe  amputations, 
with  the  exception  of  the  large  toe,  generally  needed  no  special  considerations.  Am¬ 
putation  of  the  large  toe  at  the  metatarsophalangeal  joint  interfered  with  running  and 
fine  balance  adjustments,  but  did  not  present  a  major  problem  in  ordinary  ambula¬ 
tion.  Transmetatarsal  amputations  were  relatively  infrequent  in  the  Vietnam  War  and 
usually  were  maintained  at  the  level  of  initial  loss  if  sufficient  skin  flaps  were  present. 

The  eventual  functional  results  of  amputation  of  the  lateral  two  rays  of  a  foot  were 
usually  good,  allowing  ambulation  with  a  filler  in  the  shoe.  However,  feet  sustaining 
amputation  of  the  entire  first  ray,  particularly  if  any  involvement  of  the  second  ray 
was  present,  usually  had  to  be  revised  to  a  Syme’s  amputation  later  because  the  re¬ 
maining  lateral  rays  generally  proved  insufficient  for  painless  efficient  weightbearing. 

When  traumatic  amputations  through  the  midtarsal  area  (Lisfranc)  and  through  the 
midtarsal-tarsal  joint  (Chopart)  occurred,  usually  insufficient  skin  remained  to  cover 
the  terminal  ends  of  these  wounds.  Small  antipersonnel  mines  (“toe-poppers”)  caused 
only  partial  injury  to  the  bone  and  vascular  structures,  but  destroyed  the  skin  on  the 
plantar  aspect  of  the  foot.  These  injuries  were  best  treated  by  early  Syme’s  amputation, 
as  the  functional  results  of  a  skin-grafted  plantar  surface  of  the  foot  were  usually  poor. 
Such  management  was  an  exception  and  counter  to  the  concept  of  retaining  as  much 
skeletal  support  as  possible  until  secondary  revisions  could  be  accomplished. 


138 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Experience  at  Fitzsimons  General  and  in  other  CONUS  hospitals  indicates  that 
the  majority  of  patients  who  had  Lisfranc  or  Chopart  level  amputations  required 
later  revision  and  amputation  proximal  to  those  sites.  Muscle  imbalances  resulting 
from  Lisfranc  and  Chopart  amputations  caused  the  remaining  mid-foot  and  hind 
foot  to  go  into  progressive  equinus  and  varus.  If  some  of  the  ankle  dorsiflexors  and 
foot  evertors  remained  or  were  reattached  surgically  or  spontaneously  the  defor¬ 
mity  could  be  avoided.  Transfer  of  the  posterior  tibial  tendon  through  the  in¬ 
terosseous  membrane  to  the  dorsum  of  the  remaining  mid-foot  was  accomplished 
successfully  in  one  patient  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital.  This  patient  had  a  se¬ 
vere  injury  to  the  contralateral  extremity,  and  it  was  desirable  to  maintain  as  much 
proprioceptive  function  in  the  foot  amputation  as  possible.  Weakening  of  the  gas- 
trocnemius-soleus  muscle  group  by  early  lengthening  should  be  considered  when 
equinovarus  overpull  is  present. 

Prosthetic  fitting  of  the  transmetatarsal  amputee  usually  required  only  a  filler  in  the 
shoe.  The  coincidental  development  of  a  polypropylene  foot-ankle  orthosis  in  the  civil¬ 
ian  community  during  the  Vietnam  War  allowed  patients  with  Lisfranc  and  Chopart- 
level  amputations  to  obtain  more  functional  and  less  bulky  fitting  forefoot  prostheses. 

The  underlying  causes  of  an  extremely  high  failure  rate  of  primary  Syme’s  amputa¬ 
tions  performed  at  the  initial  treatment  hospitals  may  never  be  known.  However,  some 
of  the  following  facts  should  be  considered.  The  surgical  technique  of  Syme’s  amputa¬ 
tions  is  exacting,  particularly  in  the  need  to  preserve  an  adequate  blood  supply  to  the 
plantar  flap.  A  careful,  unhurried  dissection,  based  on  exact  knowledge  of  the  anatomy, 
is  necessary.  It  is  possible  that  at  least  some  of  these  amputations  were  performed  by 
surgeons  inexperienced  in  Syme’s  amputations,  or  that  mass  casualty  situations  pre¬ 
vented  some  surgeons  from  spending  the  time  necessary  for  a  proper  dissection. 

Another  and  probably  more  crucial  factor  in  the  survival  of  the  flap  was  the 
method  of  stump  stabilization  after  the  operation.  The  Syme’s  amputation  flap 
could  not  be  placed  in  a  conventional  circumferential  skin  traction  apparatus.  At 
the  U.S.  Army  Hospital,  Camp  Zama,  Japan,  a  number  of  patients  with  primary 
Syme’s  amputation  stumps  arrived  with  necrotic  flaps.  These  were  apparently  due 
to  a  dropping,  posteriorly,  of  the  unsupported  plantar  flap,  causing  an  acute  folding 
or  torsion  (or  both)  at  the  base  of  the  flap  that  caused  vascular  compromise.  The 
majority  of  the  patients  with  Syme’s  amputation  stumps  arrived  in  Japan  without 
adequate  stabilization  by  either  external  or  internal  means.  A  limited  number  ar¬ 
rived  with  either  Kirschner  wires  or  Steinmann  pins  traversing  the  flap  into  the  dis¬ 
tal  tibia.  Although  this  method  seemed  to  support  the  flap  in  proper  anatomical  re¬ 
lationships,  in  some  cases,  there  was  still  some  folding  of  the  base  of  the  flap  and 
necrosis  in  the  distal  portion  of  the  flap. 

The  Vietnam  experience  suggests  that  a  primary  Syme’s  amputation  should  not 
be  performed  as  the  initial  debridement  procedure,  which  should  consist  of  remov¬ 
ing  all  obviously  nonviable  soft  tissue  and  any  skeletal  elements  of  the  foot  that  do 
not  provide  longitudinal  length  for  the  support  of  the  remaining  viable  soft  tissue. 
Later,  when  wound  healing  was  stabilized,  a  secondary  revision  to  a  Syme’s  amputa¬ 
tion  could  be  accomplished  with  much  less  risk  of  loss  of  the  plantar  flap.  Experi¬ 
ence  at  the  106th  General  Hospital  confirmed  that  a  large  number  of  partial  flap 
necroses  occurred  secondary  to  battlefield  first-stage  Syme’s.  However,  the  major¬ 
ity  of  the  patients  in  that  series  were  still  able  to  retain  a  Syme’s-length  amputation 


VIETNAM  WAR  AMPUTEES 


139 


stump  and  were  titted  with  a  Syme’s  prosthesis.  This  suggests  that  even  though  a 
partial  flap  necrosis  occurred,  a  below-knee  amputation  was  not  necessary  (fig.  40). 

During  the  Vietnam  War,  some  important  techniques  evolved  regarding  secondary 
revision  to  a  Syme’s  amputation.  To  provide  a  good,  stable  end-bearing  Syme’s  stump 
and  to  avoid  an  unstable  condition  of  the  end  pad,  the  extrinsic  tendons  were  cut  as 
high  as  possible  and  allowed  to  retract.  The  soft  tissue  pad  was  then  stabilized  by 
means  of  adhesive  strapping  and  plaster  external  immobilization  for  six  to  eight 
weeks.  To  streamline  the  shape  in  some  cases,  the  malleoli  were  shaved.  This  proce¬ 
dure  allowed  a  better  cosmetic  prosthetic  fit  and,  for  best  results,  was  done  only  after 
the  Syme's  stump  was  well  vascularized  and  well  healed,  not  at  the  initial  amputation. 

Below-Knee  Amputations 

In  the  majority  of  below-knee  amputations  performed  during  the  Vietnam  War, 
particularly  toward  the  latter  stages,  an  effort  was  made  to  preserve  as  much  length 
as  possible.  Usually,  the  occasional  primary  closure  and  the  more  frequent  delayed 
primary  closure  stump  wounds  healed  completely  or  partially  with  some  skin-edge 
necrosis  and  drainage,  but  some  were  total  failures.  The  stumps  that  were  surgically 
closed  and  then  had  to  be  opened  for  redebridement  were  usually  treated  with  trac¬ 
tion  and  gradual  closure  with  the  aid  of  Steri-strip  or  skin  grafts. 

The  primary  aim  in  the  CONUS  hospitals  was  to  achieve  a  closed  noninfected 
stump  (without  sacrificing  functional  length)  that  could  be  fitted  with  a  prosthesis 
as  soon  as  possible.  Frequently,  temporary  plaster  sockets  with  attached  pylons 
were  applied  to  both  open  and  closed  immature  stumps.  Fitting  a  prosthesis  on  a 
patient  promoted  his  functional  psychological  rehabilitation.  Emphasis  was  placed 
on  ambulation,  as  soon  as  possible.  Generally,  prolonged  bedrest  and  use  of 
wheelchairs  were  discouraged.  Early  ambulation  and  mobilization  appeared  to  en¬ 
hance  the  healing  of  associated  lower  extremity  fractures. 

Varying  methods  and  techniques  were  used  at  different  times  and  in  different 
centers  to  facilitate  closure  of  the  open  below-knee  amputation.  Some  of  the  meth¬ 
ods  used  at  one  time  or  another  in  treatment  of  below-knee  amputees  included: 
skin  traction  of  either  continuous  or  intermittent  type  until  closure  of  wound;  de¬ 
layed  primary  closure;  secondary  closure  by  revision;  Steri-strip  closure;  a  tempo¬ 
rary  plaster  socket  to  the  open  stump  with  attached  pylon,  and  early  ambulation 
until  closure;  either  split-thickness  or  mesh-type  skin  grafts  to  the  end  or  sides  of 
the  stump;  and  pedicle  flap  coverage  of  the  stump. 

Medical  records  of  amputees  from  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  and  patients 
passing  through  the  106th  General  Hospital  in  Japan  were  evaluated  to  determine 
the  efficacy  of  each  of  these  methods.  Retrospectively,  it  is  difficult  to  determine 
the  exact  extent  of  skin  traction  effectiveness  during  the  first  several  weeks  after  in¬ 
jury.  This  is  because,  in  many  cases,  skin  traction  was  not  effectively  maintained 
during  the  initial  stage  when  it  was  most  useful.  Also,  many  patients  had  skin  trac¬ 
tion  at  varying  times  in  the  course  of  treatment  in  combination  with  procedures 
such  as  secondary  revision,  Steri-strip  closure,  and  skin  grafting. 

In  definitive-treatment  CONUS  centers,  several  different  philosophies  evolved 
concerning  the  revision  of  below-knee  stumps  to  a  “permanent  definitive”  stump. 


140 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  40. — A  severe  mid-tarsal  gunshot  wound  was  converted  to  a  Chopart  following 
debridement.  When  the  foot  was  no  longer  reactive  an  elective  Syme’s  amputation  was 
performed. 


VIETNAM  WAR  AMPUTEES 


141 


At  some  of  the  centers,  the  majority  of  amputations  were  treated  with  one  of  the 
methods  until  skin  was  essentially  healed.  Then,  after  a  medical  board,  the  patient 
was  discharged  from  the  hospital  and  transferred  to  a  Veterans  Administration 
Prosthetic  Facility.  Others  used  different  management  methods.  At  Fitzsimons 
General  Hospital,  the  majority  of  below-knee  amputees  were  fitted  with  “perma¬ 
nent”  prostheses  without  revision  to  a  “more  permanent-type”  stump.  Most  of 
these  patients  were  able  to  tolerate  a  patella-tendon-bearing  socket  with  soft  end 
pad  without  revision  of  scars  on  the  end  of  the  stump. 

At  Valley  Forge  General  Hospital,  emphasis  was  placed  on  performing  more 
definitive  type  revisions  to  eliminate  redundant  soft  tissue  and  adherent  scar  and  to 
provide  a  more  stable  amputation  stump.  An  Ertl-type  revision,  creating  an  os¬ 
teosynthesis  between  the  distal  tibia  and  fibula,  was  performed  successfully  in  a 
number  of  cases  (Deffer  1970;  Moss  1970).  Special  prosthetic  fitting  was  necessary 
to  fit  the  shape  of  altered  stump  and  to  allow  for  the  end  weightbearing  characteris¬ 
tics  of  this  type  of  amputation. 

Several  hospitals  emphasized  the  use  of  temporary  plaster  sockets  with  attached 
pylon  and  foot  to  treat  those  amputees  with  immature  stumps  (fig.  41).  This  early 
weightbearing  method,  which  also  was  used  in  World  War  II  (Wilson  1969),  rapidly 
decreased  stump  swelling  in  both  open  and  closed  stumps.  At  Fitzsimons  General 
Hospital,  a  number  of  open  amputation  stumps  were  treated  in  this  manner.  The 
plaster  sockets  had  to  be  changed  every  3  to  5  days  to  accommodate  the  rapid 
shrinking  of  the  stump,  especially  in  the  early  phases  of  treatment.  It  was  important 
to  follow  the  detail  of  temporary  plaster  socket  application  as  described  by  Burgess 
et  al.  (1969)  to  avoid  breakdowns  in  normal  skin  areas  due  to  poor  fitting  plaster. 

Occasionally,  closed  revision  of  a  below-knee  amputation  stump  with  immedi¬ 
ate  fit  of  a  temporary  plaster  socket  effectively  controlled  stump  edema.  However, 


Figure  41. — A  temporary  plaster  below-knee 
prosthesis  allowed  ambulation  and  rapid  stump 
shrinkage  but  required  frequent  cast  changes. 


142 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


it  was  found  detrimental  to  the  closed  incision  site  if  the  patient  began  full  weight¬ 
bearing  earlier  than  seven  to  ten  days  after  the  closed  revision. 

Short  below-knee  amputation  stumps  (arbitrarily  listed  as  less  than  four  inches 
of  tibial  length)  frequently  were  skin-grafted  or  allowed  to  close  secondarily.  An¬ 
other  approach  to  the  short  below-knee  amputation  was  the  use  of  pedicle  flaps  to 
provide  more  durable  skin  surface  for  prosthetic  fitting.  To  aid  in  future  ambula¬ 
tion,  preservation  of  the  knee  joint,  even  with  a  short  stump  sometimes  measuring 
only  2.5  to  5.0  cm.  (1  to  2  inches)  it  was  desirable  to  provide  proprioceptive  feed¬ 
back  and  overall  stump  length.  Anesthetic  skin  flaps  did  not  present  a  problem  in 
fitting  the  prosthesis  or  in  its  acceptance  by  the  below-knee  amputees  (Keblish  et 
al.  1970).  Sometimes  lack  of  skin  about  the  knee  joint  meant  revision  of  the  short 
below-knee  stump  to  an  above-knee  amputation  rather  than  knee  disarticulation. 

An  ipsilateral  fracture  of  the  femur  was  a  common  complication.  Twenty-one 
ipsilateral  femur  fractures  associated  with  below-knee  amputations  were  treated  at 
Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  and  fourteen  were  recorded  in  a  series  at  Valley  Forge 
General  Hospital  (Herndon  et  al.  1973).  Initially,  the  femur  fracture  reduction  was 
maintained  by  means  of  a  pin  through  the  proximal  tibia  with  balanced  skeletal 
traction.  After  the  patient  reached  one  of  the  CONUS  treatment  facilities,  a  modi¬ 
fied  cast  brace  was  applied  which  incorporated  the  Steinmann  pin  in  the  cast  brace. 
A  pylon  and  solid  ankle  cushion  heel  (SACH)  foot  was  attached.  In  some  cases,  the 
knee  could  be  mobilized  by  appropriately  placed  knee  hinges. 

Knee  Disarticulation 

When  it  was  apparent  that  a  below-knee  level  amputation  would  not  remove  all 
nonviable  tissue  in  the  proximal  part  of  the  leg,  a  primary  open-knee  disarticulation 
was  frequently  performed.  This  level  of  extremity  removal  for  debridement  pur¬ 
poses  could  be  rapidly  performed  with  relatively  little  blood  loss.  It  was  alleged  that 
the  retained  hyaline  cartilage  prohibited  the  proximal  spread  of  infection,  but  this 
concept  is  questionable.  Furthermore,  skin  grafts  over  this  area  took  poorly,  if  at 
all,  after  the  hyaline  articular  cartilage  was  exposed.  Secondary  closure  by  either  re¬ 
vision  at  the  same  level  or  wound  healing  by  secondary  intention  was  unsuccessful. 
Early  and  continuous  skin  traction,  combined  with  delayed  closure  by  suture  or 
Steri-strip,  was  effective  in  some  cases.  If  closure  had  not  been  accomplished  within 
approximately  three  to  four  weeks  and  hyaline  articular  cartilage  decomposition 
was  prominent,  then  an  above-knee  amputation  had  to  be  performed. 

Knee  disarticulations  had  several  disadvantages.  First,  there  was  poor  cosmesis 
due  to  excess  length  when  any  type  of  hydraulic  knee  was  fitted,  and  second,  there 
was  an  inability  to  accommodate  ischial  weightbearing  with  the  use  of  the  total  con¬ 
tact  quadrilateral  socket,  due  to  the  bulbous  condyles  at  the  end  of  the  stump. 

Frequent  breakage  of  outside  hinges  on  a  conventional  knee  disarticulation 
prosthesis  also  was  a  recognized  disadvantage.  The  introduction  of  two  new  types 
of  four-bar  linkage  polycentric  knee  joints  in  the  late  1960s  alleviated  the  cosmetic 
and  hinge  breakage  disadvantages.  With  this  new  type  of  knee  joint,  the  patient 
could  sit  with  the  knee  flexed  without  undesirable  excess  length  of  the  prosthesis. 


VIETNAM  WAR  AMPUTEES 


143 


At  Oakland  Naval  Hospital,  thirty-three  patients  with  knee  disarticulations  un¬ 
derwent  osteoplastic  revision  of  the  distal  end  of  the  stump,  excising  the  prominent 
femoral  condyles  as  described  by  Mazet  and  Hennesy  (1966).  This  surgical  modifi¬ 
cation  of  the  stump  allowed  fitting  of  total  contact  quadrilateral  suction  sockets 
(Utterback  and  Rhobrer  1973). 


Above-Knee  Amputations 

As  much  thigh  length  as  possible  was  kept  at  the  time  of  initial  amputation  in 
order  to  provide  a  biomechanically  functional  remnant  and  to  obtain  a  closed 
stump.  All  methods  described  for  the  treatment  of  the  below-knee  amputee  were 
applicable,  in  some  form,  to  above-knee  amputations.  Frequently,  the  injuring 
agent  also  caused  trunk,  upper  extremity,  and  contralateral  extremity  wounds,  as 
well  as  the  above-knee  deficit.  The  number  of  bilateral  above-knee  and  triple  am¬ 
putee  patients  was  significant. 

Early  application  and  maintenance  of  skin  traction  was  useful  in  closure  of  the 
open-circular  type  and  equal-flap  type  amputations.  Many  of  the  above-knee 
stumps,  however,  had  irregular  flaps  with  large  areas  of  skin  loss  and  proximal 
wounds,  all  of  which  tended  to  negate  the  effects  of  conventionally  applied  skin 
traction.  Split-thickness  skin  grafts,  particularly  the  mesh  type,  were  helpful  in  cov¬ 
ering  these  large  irregular  wounds,  especially  in  the  short  above-knee  stump.  Steri- 
strip  closure  also  played  a  part  in  decreasing  wound  size. 

In  a  number  of  instances  the  above-knee  amputations  were  performed  because 
a  vascular  repair  failed  at  the  site  of  a  thigh  wound  that  also  included  a  fracture  of 
the  femoral  shaft.  In  some  cases,  amputation  was  performed  through  the  fracture 
site,  thus  removing  a  potentially  useful  distal  segment  of  femur  which  could  have 
been  used  ultimately  to  provide  a  longer  stump  and  thereby  improve  the  patient  s 
ambulation.  Another  reason  that  amputation  should  not  have  been  performed 
through  the  fracture  site  was  that  there  was  frequently  a  chance  that  the  surround¬ 
ing  soft  tissues  would  support  union  of  the  femur  fracture,  which  would  result  in  a 
longer  and  more  functional  stump. 

At  the  time  of  secondary  stump  revision,  a  few  surgeons  performed  myodesis  or 
myoplasties  to  provide  increased  muscle  control  and  proprioceptive  feedback  as 
advocated  by  Weisse,  perhaps  because  identifying  the  muscles  and  reestablishing 
muscle  length  in  these  traumatic  amputees  were  difficult.  An  important  considera¬ 
tion  in  ultimate  fitting  of  the  above-knee  amputee’s  prosthesis  was  excess  bulk,  par¬ 
ticularly  on  the  end  of  the  amputation  stump.  This  bulk  caused  relative  instability 
of  the  femur  within  the  above-knee  prosthetic  socket.  Some  amputees  developed  a 
painful  bursa  beneath  the  excess  muscles  as  they  rubbed  across  the  bone  end. 

Special  problems  occurred  in  the  management  of  amputation  wounds  of  the  high 
thigh,  hip  disarticulation  and  hemiplevectory  type.  Contamination  of  the  wounds  by 
fecal  material  was  prevalent,  particularly  in  those  amputees  with  high  bilateral 
losses.  A  diverting  colostomy  was  performed  in  many  of  these  patients.  This  proce¬ 
dure  significantly  decreased  wound  contamination  by  fecal  material.  Skin  traction 
could  not  be  effectively  applied  to  these  areas  by  the  usual  methods.  One  method, 
utilizing  wire  sutures  placed  through  the  skin  edges  and  attached  to  traction,  was  im- 


144 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


provised,  but  this  technique  could  be  used  only  for  a  short  time,  a  few  days  at  the 
most,  before  the  wires  would  necrose  the  skin  edges  and  pull  out. 

Hand  Amputations 

The  upper  extremity  amputee  presented  a  different  challenge  to  the  trauma  sur¬ 
geon.  While  the  lower  extremity  amputee  needed  a  stable  skeletal  support,  sur¬ 
rounded  by  mature,  nonpainful  soft  tissues  and  durable  skin  which  could  tolerate 
both  high  friction  and  pressure  loading,  the  upper  extremity  amputee  needed  to  re¬ 
tain  as  much  sensitivity  as  possible  in  the  remaining  part  of  the  extremity.  The  un¬ 
trained,  unilateral  upper  extremity  amputee  transferred  many  functions  to  the  re¬ 
maining  intact  hand  and  seldom  used  the  extremity  with  the  amputation.  Therefore, 
one  of  the  major  aims  in  management  of  the  upper  extremity  amputee  was  to  reduce 
the  natural  tendency  for  complete  substitution  of  all  functions  to  the  intact  hand. 

Initial  treatment  of  the  wound  causing  loss  of  the  distal  portion  of  the  upper  ex¬ 
tremity  involved  thorough  debridement  of  any  nonviable  soft  tissues.  Every  effort 
was  made  to  maintain  as  much  of  the  skeletal  support  as  possible  as  well  as  to  pre¬ 
serve  skin  for  use  in  later  reconstruction.  After  initial  debridement  and  during  sub¬ 
sequent  stages  of  care,  skin  traction  was  applied.  In  many  cases,  this  hastened  clo¬ 
sure  of  the  wound.  Delayed  primary  closure  and  secondary  closure  by  suture  or 
skin  graft  were  also  used,  as  required,  without  shortening  of  the  amputation  stump. 

In  general,  utilizing  these  methods  of  care,  the  wounds  of  the  upper  extremity 
amputee  healed  more  favorably  than  those  wounds  treated  by  the  same  methods  in 
the  lower  extremity  amputee  (LaNone  1971). 

Wrist  Disarticulation 

A  wrist  disarticulation  was  performed  whenever  there  was  an  intact  distal  radius 
and  ulna  as  well  as  sufficient  skin  flaps  to  cover  the  bone  ends.  This  level  of  ampu¬ 
tation  was  considered  more  functional  then  a  medium  or  long  below-elbow  ampu¬ 
tation.  The  expanded  shape  of  the  radius  and  ulna  allowed  for  a  more  “rectangu¬ 
lar”  configuration,  providing  a  large  stable  contact  area  for  the  socket. 

There  were,  however,  major  disadvantages  with  this  level  of  amputation.  This 
long  stump,  when  fitted  with  a  prosthesis,  had  a  total  length  as  long  or  longer  than 
the  normal  extremity.  This  added  length  had  poor  cosmetic  qualities  because  it  ac¬ 
centuated  the  presence  of  the  prosthesis  and  amputation  condition.  It  also  precluded 
the  use  of  a  self-contained  electronic  terminal  device.  This  “electric  arm”  needed 
space  between  the  stump  and  terminal  device  to  house  the  batteries  and  integrated 
electronic  components.  In  one  survey  of  amputee  clinic  chiefs,  56  percent  preferred 
the  long  below-elbow  amputation  to  a  wrist  disarticulation  (Newsletter  1970). 

Below-Elbow  Amputations 

The  short  below-elbow  stump  was  preferable  to  an  elbow  disarticulation  or  an 
above-elbow  amputation.  Full  thickness  skin  graft  coverings  were  accomplished  in 
a  few  cases  to  preserve  this  lower  level  of  amputation,  thereby  preserving  motion  at 


VIETNAM  WAR  AMPUTEES 


145 


the  elbow  joint.  Salvage  of  the  short  below-elbow  amputation  with  pedicle  flap  skin 
coverage  was  achieved  in  some  cases.  Fitting  by  means  of  a  Munster-type  below- 
elbow  socket  made  use  of  the  preserved  proprioception  and  elbow  motion  in  these 
short  below-elbow  stumps  (fig.  42). 


Figure  42. — The  use  of  an  elastomer  foam  in¬ 
sert  allowed  early  prosthetic  training  while  the 
stump  was  still  reaching  equilibrium.  The 
foam  insert  could  be  changed  frequently  and 
acted  as  a  stump  “wrap.” 


146 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Rehabilitation  for  below-elbow  amputees  began  with  learning  to  use  a  tempo¬ 
rary  training  prosthesis.  At  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital,  thirty-eight  below-elbow 
amputees  were  treated  with  application  of  temporary  upper  extremity  prosthetic 
training  devices.  Plaster  sockets  with  attached  terminal  devices  and  appropriate 
harnessing  allowed  early  functional  rehabilitation  and  training  to  negate  some  of 
the  tendency  for  the  patient  to  become  entirely  “one-handed."  At  the  same  hospi¬ 
tal,  an  oversized  laminated  socket  filled  with  Elastomer  foam  to  make  a  custom  fit 
for  the  stump  was  used  as  a  temporary  training  arm  while  awaiting  stump  maturity 
and  permanent  prosthetic  fitting  (Burkhalter  et  al.  1976). 

Elbow  Disarticulations  and  Above-Elbow  Amputations 

Retaining  the  humerus  in  extremely  short  above-elbow  amputees  was  advanta¬ 
geous  because  this  benefited  the  shoulder  joint  contour  cosmetically  and  provided 
some  base  for  suspension  of  a  prosthesis.  As  the  upper  extremity  level  became  pro¬ 
gressively  shortened,  the  patient  acceptance  rate  became  lower;  however,  six  of 
nine  shoulder  disarticulation  patients  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  were  consid¬ 
ered  prosthetic  wearers  one  to  two  years  after  amputation  (Burkhalter  et  al.  1976). 

A  few  patients  with  elbow  disarticulations  were  fitted  with  prostheses  that  utilized 
the  condyles  of  the  humerus  to  aid  in  suspension.  An  additional  advantage  of  disartic¬ 
ulation  was  better  rotational  control  of  the  socket  on  the  stump,  provided  by  the 
prominent  condyles  of  the  humerus.  Prosthetic  fitting  of  external  elbow  joint  hinges 
was  necessary  to  avoid  excess  length.  This  was  a  minor  disadvantage  and,  due  to  the 
relatively  low  stresses  applied,  breakage  of  the  hinges  was  not  a  common  problem.  As 
much  length  as  possible  of  the  above-elbow  stump  was  preserved  and,  frequently,  to 
preserve  the  skeletal  length,  skin  grafts  were  applied  over  open  areas.  These  skin 
grafts  were  particularly  useful  in  covering  short  above-elbow  amputations.  At  Fitzsi¬ 
mons  General  Hospital,  twenty-nine  above-elbow  amputees  were  fitted  with  tempo¬ 
rary  training  arms,  and  early  functional  use  of  the  extremity  was  emphasized.  This 
training  arm  was  similar  to  the  one  described  for  the  below-elbow  amputee — an  over¬ 
sized  laminated  plastic  socket  with  an  interposed  Elastomer  foam  between  the  stump 
socket  and  the  attached  elbow-terminal  device  unit  (Burkhalter  et  al.  1976). 

SPECIAL  PROSTHETIC  CONSIDERATIONS 

Responding  to  the  need  to  place  the  lower  extremity  amputee  in  the  upright  walk¬ 
ing  position  to  enable  him  to  return  to  useful  society  as  soon  as  possible,  a  number  of 
special  prosthetic  devices  were  originated  in  the  CONUS  treatment  centers.  Tempo¬ 
rary  plaster  sockets  with  attached  pylons  and  feet  were  used.  In  lieu  of  the  temporary 
plaster  socket  and  pylon,  seventy-five  below-knee  amputees  were  fitted  with  bent- 
knee  pylons  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital.  These  lightweight  devices,  constructed 
from  aluminum  crutches,  featured  a  supporting  platform  and  a  pelvic  band  which  al¬ 
lowed  the  amputee  freedom  from  crutches.  Thus,  he  could  use  his  upper  extremities 
for  other  activities  (fig.  43).  When  below-knee  amputees  with  flexion  contractures 
used  this  device,  their  contractures  decreased  (Pinnell  and  Mayfield  1972).  A  similar 


VIETNAM  WAR  AMPUTEES 


147 


Figure  43. — The  bent-knee  pylon  allowed 
early  ambulation  on  a  maturing  stump  with 
open  wounds  or  skin  grafts. 


stump-containing  device  with  attached  pylons,  both  articulated  and  nonarticulated, 
was  attempted  for  the  above-knee  amputees  but  did  not  prove  successful. 

The  bilateral  above-knee  amputee  presented  a  challenge  throughout  the  reha¬ 
bilitation  phase.  To  lower  the  center  of  gravity  and  to  aid  the  balance  of  the  am¬ 
putee,  he  was  fitted  with  a  “stubby”  training  prosthesis.  The  device  allowed  the  pa¬ 
tient  to  get  out  of  the  wheelchair  early  and,  frequently,  to  walk  without  crutches  or 
canes  on  the  first  attempt  (Brown  1970). 

Although  stubby  prosthesis  permitted  the  bilateral  above-knee  amputee  early 
ambulation  and  balance  training,  personal  communications  with  some  of  these  pa¬ 
tients  indicated  a  negative  psychological  impact.  The  rather  marked  foreshortening 
was  considered  demeaning,  though  they  realized  this  pair  of  “stubbies”  was  only  a 
temporary  mode  in  their  rehabilitation  cycle.  Later  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital 
(February  1970  to  October  1972),  this  problem  was  circumvented  by  fitting  17  bilat¬ 
eral  above-knee  amputees  with  early  temporary  plaster  quadrilateral  sockets  and 
four-bar  linkage  polycentric  nonhydraulic  knee  joints.  These  Polycadence  knee 
units  were  extremely  stable  in  stance  phase  and  allowed  the  amputee  to  stand  with 
normal  length  prosthetic  devices.  Frequently,  he  was  able  to  ambulate  with  minimal 
assistance  after  several  days  (Mayfield  and  Burkhalter  1973;  Mayfield  1971). 

The  fitting  of  permanent  prostheses  at  the  centers  that  retained  amputees  until 
they  could  be  fitted  was  influenced  in  part  by  the  simultaneous  development  of 
prosthetic  innovations  in  the  civilian  community.  Cooperation  with  the  Veterans 
Administration  Prosthetics  Research  Unit  allowed  introduction  of  some  of  the 
newest  developments  in  prosthetic  research  to  the  men  who  incurred  amputations 
from  wounds  during  the  Vietnam  War. 


148 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


For  the  Syme’s  and  knee  disarticulation  level  amputees,  sleeve-type  slip-in  inner 
sockets  with  suspension  incorporated  within  the  socket  were  available.  Short 
below-knee  amputees  with  poor  distal  skin  surface  were  often  fitted  successfully 
with  a  variance  of  the  patellar-tendon-bearing  prosthesis.  The  total  contact  hard 
patellar-tendon-bearing  socket  was  used  extensively  to  fit  the  more  mature  below- 
knee  stumps.  A  soft  Silastic  material  endpad  was  used  with  a  hard  socket  to  accom¬ 
modate  changes  of  the  relatively  immature  stump.  Some  amputee  clinics  continued 
to  use  the  patellar-tendon-bearing  socket  with  a  soft  Kimbrough  liner. 

In  order  to  accommodate  immature  stumps  that  could  be  expected  to  change  di¬ 
mensions  rapidly,  certain  heat  labile  plastic  substances,  such  as  Polysar,  were  used 
to  construct  the  sockets.  Generally,  however,  these  sockets  were  more  time-con¬ 
suming  to  construct  and  more  expensive  than  a  temporary  plaster  socket.  Attempts 
were  made  to  fit  mature  stumps  with  more  advanced  socket  designs,  including  air- 
cushion  sockets  and  gel-lined  sockets.  Overall,  these  attempts  were  not  as  satisfac¬ 
tory  as  the  more  conventional  patellar-tendon-bearing  hard  or  soft  sockets. 

Deffer  (1970)  described  his  experience  with  nearly  one  hundred  Ertl  osteoplas¬ 
ties.  He  emphasized  that  special  prosthetic  considerations  were  necessary  to  take 
advantage  of  the  end  weightbearing  characteristics  of  this  revised  stump.  Accurate 
fit  of  the  below-knee  prosthesis  was  evaluated  by  use  of  weightbearing  x-rays  ob¬ 
tained  of  the  stump  in  the  socket.  Microcapsule  pressure-sensitive  sockets,  as  de¬ 
scribed  by  Brand  and  Ebner  (1969),  were  utilized  to  detect  abnormal  prosthetic 
socket  pressures  on  the  skin  of  the  stump. 

A  radiographic  technique  was  developed  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  to  as¬ 
sess  the  socket  fit  and  the  relative  adducted/abducted  position  of  the  hip  joint  on  the 
amputation  side.  The  x-rays  were  taken  with  the  patient  standing  and  with  the  heels 
two  inches  apart.  It  was  found  that  the  majority  of  protheses  were  fitted  with  the  am¬ 
putee's  hip  in  abduction  and  with  poor  stump  support  by  the  lateral  wall  of  the 
socket.  This  alignment  placed  the  hip  abductor  muscles  at  a  disadvantage  and  glu¬ 
teus  melius  type  of  gait  was  present.  This  x-ray  technique  was  utilized  during  the 
prosthetic  fitting  process  to  assure  proper  adduction  position  of  the  hip  (fig.  44). 

The  majority  of  above-knee  amputees  were  fitted  with  prostheses  containing  ei¬ 
ther  constant-friction  single-axis  knee  joints  or  assorted  swing-phase-control  hy¬ 
draulic  or  pneumatic  units.  The  Henche,  Mauke  S&S  knee  joint  unit,  which  incorpo¬ 
rated  a  more  stable  stance  phase  mode,  was  fitted  to  both  unilateral  and  bilateral 
above-knee  amputees  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  and  Walter  Reed  Army  Medi¬ 
cal  Center  (Baker  1970).  An  amputee  fitted  with  a  prosthesis  of  this  type  of  knee  joint 
required  special  training  before  he  could  utilize  all  of  the  features  properly.  After 
1969,  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital,  the  majority  of  bilateral  above-knee  amputees 
were  titted  with  four-bar  linkage  Polycadence  knee  joints,  which  provided  stance 
phase  stability  and  allowed  the  amputee  to  walk  with  only  one  cane.  Four  amputees 
were  titted  with  a  Polycadence  knee  on  one  side  and  a  Henche,  Mauke  S&S  knee  in 
the  opposite  prosthesis.  This  was  a  favorable  combination  because  the  patient  could 
use  the  S&S  knee  to  aid  in  sitting  and  descending  stairs  while  the  Polycadence  knee 
provided  stance  phase  stability.  A  four-bar  linkage,  polycentric  knee  with  a  swing 
phase  hydraulic  cylinder  was  used  in  some  prostheses  in  the  latter  stages  of  the  Viet¬ 
nam  War.  This  combination  was  used  to  the  best  advantage  when  fitted  in  those  am¬ 
putees  with  knee  disarticulations  or  long  above-knee  level  amputations. 


VIETNAM  WAR  AMPUTEES 


149 


Figure  44. — X-ray  evaluation  of  socket  fit  and 
position  of  the  femur  and  hip  joint  in  the 
socket  improved  fabrication  of  the  prosthesis. 


LESSONS  LEARNED 

Preservation  of  the  major  bony  skeletal  structures  of  the  extremity  at  the  most 
distal  level  possible  is  recommended  to  serve  as  a  supporting  strut  for  any  viable 
soft  tissue.  This  tissue  is  useful  in  later  reconstructive  stump  revision  even  though 
the  bone  itself  may  not  be  preserved  for  the  eventual  amputation  level.  Conversion 
of  the  traumatic  Lisfranc  or  Chopart  level  of  foot  amputation  to  a  Syme’s  amputa¬ 
tion  at  a  later  time  is  an  example  of  this  concept. 

Irregular  stump  configurations  maintaining  viable  skin  flaps  and  other  soft  tissue 
that  can  be  used  to  cover  critical  skeletal  elements  proximally  should  be  salvaged.  Ini¬ 
tial  circular  amputation  through  a  “site  of  election”  should  be  avoided,  particularly  if 
variable  skin  flaps  can  be  retained  for  use  in  reconstruction  of  a  stump  that  saves  a 
functioned  joint.  For  example,  with  soft  tissue  flaps  to  cover  a  short  skeletal  segment 
of  a  below-knee  stump,  we  could  salvage  the  critical  function  of  the  knee  joint. 

Exploding  weapons,  such  as  mines  at  ground  level,  frequently  propelled  foreign 
inorganic  and  organic  material,  as  well  as  the  amputee’s  own  bone  fragments,  deep 
into  the  proximal  tissues.  The  only  evident  open  wound  was  the  traumatic  amputa¬ 
tion,  the  more  proximal  skin  remaining  intact.  If  proximal  trauma  was  not  suspected 
and  proximal  debridement  neglected  these  foreign  elements  and  surrounding  tissue, 
necrosis  secondary  to  their  high  velocity  passage  was  as  source  of  deep  infection  and 
potential  loss  of  limb  at  a  level  proximal  to  the  traumatic  amputation  site.  A  high 
index  of  suspicion  of  this  condition  in  all  blast-type  amputations  was  necessary,  and 
adequate  proximal  longitudinal  incisions,  frequently  the  length  of  the  proximal  limb 
segment,  were  required  to  perform  adequate  debridement  of  the  wound.  Proximal 


150 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


swelling  associated  with  contaminated  traumatically  dissected  tissue  planes  at  the 
amputation  level,  the  “dirty  envelope  syndrome,”  was  a  clue  to  pursue  proximal  dis¬ 
section  along  these  planes.  An  x-ray  of  the  proximal  limb  segment  was  a  necessity 
and  could  reveal  proximally  driven  stones,  metal,  or  bone,  or  air  in  the  soft  tissue. 
The  most  common  example  of  this  occurrence  was  the  blast  injury-incurred  below- 
the-knee  amputation  with  contamination  and  necrosis  of  the  adductor  area  of  the 
thigh.  Exploration  of  the  knee  or  hip  joints  should  be  considered  in  all  blast  injury- 
incurred  amputee  patients  if  there  is  any  suggestion  of  proximal  contamination. 

Retention  of  the  knee  joint  with  intact  muscles  and  nerves  to  provide  motion 
and  proprioceptive  feedback  in  below-knee  amputees  promoted  more  stable  gait 
patterns  than  were  possible  for  above-knee  or  knee  disarticulation  amputees.  An 
open  circular  amputation  stump  with  only  two  inches  of  tibia  should  be  retained 
with  split-thickness  skin  grafts,  secondary  thickness  pedicle  flap  coverage,  or  even¬ 
tual  closure  by  secondary  intention  wound  healing  to  complete  the  skin  coverage. 

Statistics  show  that  delayed  primary  closure  of  selected  “clean”  amputation 
stumps  allowed  the  least  time  before  prosthetic  fit  as  compared  with  all  other 
courses  of  wound  management.  Many  factors  contribute  to  the  decision  to  perform 
a  delayed  primary  closure  of  a  traumatic  amputation  stump  in  a  war  zone  environ¬ 
ment.  The  surgeon  must  have  considerable  experience  in  wound  evaluation,  partic¬ 
ularly  in  assessing  tissue  for  contamination  and  viability.  Adequate  skin  must  be 
available  to  close  the  wound  without  tension  at  the  suture  line,  and  the  operating 
surgeon  must  be  able  to  evaluate  the  wound  and  patient’s  response  to  delayed  pri¬ 
mary  closure  for  at  least  seven  days  postoperatively.  If  deep  infection  or  tissue 
necrosis  occurs,  endangering  either  the  patient’s  life  or  eventual  stump  length,  the 
surgeon  must  not  hesitate  to  perform  a  “delayed  primary  opening”  procedure  and 
to  remove  all  sutures  in  the  stump.  Then  he  must  perform  meticulous  redebride¬ 
ment  of  the  stump.  A  switch  to  an  open  method  of  skin  traction  and  plaster  dress¬ 
ings  will  then  be  necessary. 

Temporary  plaster  sockets  with  attached  pylons  and  prosthetic  feet  were  used 
successfully  in  CONUS  hospitals.  These  allowed  ambulation  of  the  lower  extremity 
amputee  within  a  few  weeks  after  amputation  (Mayfield  and  Burkhalter  1972).  The 
increased  mobility  of  the  amputee  in  an  upright  walking  posture  contributed  signif¬ 
icantly  to  positive  mental  attitudes  as  compared  to  those  amputees  treated  by  the 
nonambulatory  methods  of  continuous  skin  traction  in  bed.  Ambulation  also  con¬ 
tributed  to  rapid  stump  shrinkage  and  maintenance  of  proximal  muscle  group  tone 
and  coordination.  Maximum  advantage  of  this  ambulatory  treatment  was  obtained 
by  applying  the  temporary  socket  and  pylon  approximately  ten  to  fourteen  days 
after  stump  closure  by  delayed  primary  closure  or  secondary  revision.  In  the  inter¬ 
val  between  closure  and  pylon  fitting  a  temporary  nonweightbearing  plaster  dress¬ 
ing  was  used  to  immobilize  soft  tissue,  to  decrease  pain  and  edema,  and  to  protect 
against  direct  external  forces  (Mayfield  and  Burkhalter  1972). 

Open  stumps  that  could  not  be  closed  safely  or  those  that  broke  down  after  clo¬ 
sure  were  treated  by  immediate  application  of  weightbearing  socket  and  pylon  after 
another  thorough  debridement.  These  stumps  closed  eventually  by  secondary  in¬ 
tention.  Meanwhile  the  patient  was  ambulatory  and  maintained  the  functional 
length  of  the  salvaged  longer  stump.  Relatively  little  pain  was  experienced  by  the 
amputee  with  an  open  stump  ambulating  in  a  socket-pylon. 


VIETNAM  WAR  AMPUTEES 


151 


After  surgery  on  the  upper  extremity  amputation  stump,  the  patient  was  imme¬ 
diately  fitted  with  a  temporary  plaster  socket  or  an  oversized  laminated  socket 
filled  with  Silastic  foam  and  an  appropriate  terminal  device  with  harness  attached. 
This  permitted  early  prosthetic  training  and  return  to  functional  activities.  When 
early  functional  use  of  the  extremity  was  obtained  by  this  method,  phantom  pain 
syndrome  was  reduced. 

Observations  were  repeatedly  made  at  the  PACOM  and  CONUS  hospitals  that, 
despite  the  impressions  of  evacuating  surgeons  that  skin  traction  was  “always”  ap¬ 
plied  before  evacuation,  skin  traction  was  not  maintained  in  the  evacuation  route. 
This  was  unfortunate  because  skin  traction  only  to  the  distal  two  inches  of  skin  was 
essential  in  the  initial  phases  of  treatment  and  evacuation,  if  early  closure  of  the 
open  amputation  was  to  be  achieved.  This  was  true  irrespective  of  the  subsequent 
closure  method,  be  it  delayed  primary  closure,  continued  skin  traction,  skin  graft¬ 
ing,  or  plaster  socket  and  early  ambulation. 

Therefore,  should  future  wars  require  evacuation  of  amputees,  a  uniform  inter¬ 
service  education  program  should  be  designed  that  includes  established  guidelines 
and  specific  directives  concerning  maintenance  of  continued  skin  traction  to  the 
stump  by  self-contained  methods.  A  well-applied  plaster  cast  immobilizing  the  joint 
most  proximal  to  the  amputation  level  with  attached  outrigger  continues  to  be  the 
most  satisfactory  method  of  achieving  this  goal. 

Abrupt,  massive  bleeding  from  failure  of  the  proximal  vein  graft  anastomosis 
was  observed  in  some  amputees  who  had  amputations  through  the  thigh  at  the  level 
of  the  grafting  procedure.  To  prevent  this  dramatic  complication,  the  vein  graft 
should  be  removed  and  ligation  of  the  most  distal  part  of  normal  artery  done  at  the 
time  of  amputation. 

Diverting  colostomies  should  be  done  in  patients  with  hip  disarticulations, 
hemipelvectomy,  and  high  above-knee  amputations  early  in  the  course  of  treatment 
to  decrease  local  fecal  contamination  of  the  wound. 

Myodeses  and  myoplasties  have  been  described  as  beneficial  in  producing 
stronger  and  more  functional  stumps  through  reestablishment  of  myoneural  reflex 
patterns.  However,  most  of  the  traumatic-type  amputations  sustained  in  the  war 
zone  were  not  amenable  to  this  procedure.  Ertl  osteoplasty  revisions  of  the  longer 
below-knee  stumps  were  performed  frequently  in  some  centers.  This  procedure 
created  a  stump  allowing  more  stability  and  a  closer  contact  prosthetic  fit  with  end 
weightbearing  than  the  ordinary  below-knee  stump.  It  is  recommended  for  se¬ 
lected,  well  healed  below-knee  stumps. 

Several  innovations  in  prosthetic  design  and  manufacture  which  occurred  dur¬ 
ing  the  rehabilitation  period  of  our  Vietnam  War  amputee  population  proved  bene¬ 
ficial.  The  Henche,  Mauke  S&S  hydraulic  knee  was  popular  for  the  active  young 
unilateral  above-knee  amputee.  Stable  four-bar  linkage  knee  systems,  sometimes  in 
combination  with  the  S&S  knee  unit,  were  utilized  to  ambulate  the  bilateral  above¬ 
knee  amputee  in  some  centers  (Mayfield  1971). 

Myoelectric  devices  to  drive  powered  upper  extremity  protheses  were  intro¬ 
duced  to  selected  upper  extremity  amputees  through  the  Veterans  Administration 
and  Northwestern  University  combined  research  program.  Acceptance  rate  was 
variable,  however,  and  the  more  conventional  “hook  was  the  most  widely  ac¬ 
cepted  terminal  device  for  upper  extremity  amputees. 


152 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


In  summary,  many  different  types  of  amputee  management  were  performed 
during  our  years  in  Vietnam.  As  the  war  progressed,  the  concept  of  maintaining  a 
viable  skeletal  strut  and  retaining  all  possible  viable  skin  flaps  evolved  as  a  basic 
guideline  in  most  amputations.  Meticulous  debridement  had  no  substitute,  and  in¬ 
cluded  a  search  proximally  for  possible  fragments  or  vascular  injuries.  Early  evacu¬ 
ation  had  its  advantages,  but  some  patients  suffered  from  lack  of  traction  being 
maintained  to  the  open  stump.  In  CONUS,  rehabilitative  efforts  were  focused  on 
early  weightbearing  for  the  lower  extremity  amputee  and  early  functional  use  of  the 
prosthesis  (or  orthesis)  for  the  upper  extremity  amputee. 

REFERENCES 

Baker,  G.  I.  1970.  Communications  from  the  clinics.  Newsletter.  Amputee  Clinics.  2,  #1. 
Brand,  P.  W.,  and  Ebner,  J.  A.  1969.  Pressure-sensitive  devices  for  denervated  hands 
and  feet.  J.  Bone  and  Joint  Surg.  (Am)  51:109-16. 

Brown,  P.  W.  1970.  Rehabilitation  of  bilateral  lower  extremity  amputees.  J.  Bone 
and  Joint  Surg.  (Am)  52:687-700. 

Burgess,  E.  M.;  Romano,  R.  L.;  and  Zetti,  J.  H.  1969.  The  management  of  lower  ex¬ 
tremity  amputations.  Washington:  Prosthetics  and  Sensory  Aids  Service,  Veter¬ 
ans  Administration. 

Burkhalter,  W.  E.;  Mayfield,  G.  W.;  and  Carmona,  L.  S.  1976.  The  upper  extremity 
amputee.  Early  and  immediate  post  surgical  fitting.  J.  Bone  and  Joint  Surg. 
(Am)  58:46-51. 

CINCPAC-2.  1968.  Commander  in  Chief,  Pacific.  Second  CINCPAC  Conference 
on  War  Surgery.  Tri-service  surgical  conference  conducted  at  John  Hay  Air 
Base,  the  Philippines,  25-28  March  1968. 

Deffer,  P.  R.  1970.  More  on  the  Ertl  Osteoplasty.  Newsletter.  Amputee  Clinics.  2,  #1. 
Hampton,  O.  P,  Jr.  1957.  Orthopedic  surgery  in  the  Mediterranean  Theater  of  Oper¬ 
ations.  Office  of  The  Surgeon  General,  Department  of  the  Armv.  Washington: 
GPO. 

Hampton.  O.  P.,  Jr.  1966.  Report  of  consultant  tour,  15  February-25  March  1966. 
Herndon,  J.  J.;  Tolo,  V.  T.;  LaNoue,  A.  M.;  and  Deffer,  P.  A.  1973.  Management  of 
fractured  femurs  in  acute  amputees.  J.  Bone  and  Joint  Surg.  (Am)  55-1600-1613. 
Keblish,  P.  A.;  LaNoue,  A.  M.;  and  Deffer,  P.  A.  1970.  Preservation  of  the  short  BK 
amputation  stump  with  pedicle  flaps.  Presentation  at  Eastern  Orthopaedic  As¬ 
sociation  Meeting. 

LaNoue,  A.  M.  1971.  Care  and  disposition  of  amputee  war  casualties.  Student 
Paper,  U.S.  Army  Command  and  General  Staff  College. 

Mayfield,  G.  W.  1971.  Experience  with  polycadence  knee  joint.  Newsletter.  Amputee 
Clines.  3,  #2. 

Mayfield,  G.  W.,  and  Bagg,  R.  1978.  Longitudinal  survey  of  169  RVN  amputees  cre¬ 
ated.  (Unpublished  data)  106th  General  Hospital  (Japan). 

Mayfield,  G.  W.,  and  Burkhalter,  W.  E.  1972.  Treatment  of  open  ambulation  stumps 
by  temporary  prostheses  and  early  ambulation.  Scientific  Exhibit,  American 
Academy  of  Orthopaedic  Surgeons  Annual  Meeting. 

Mazet,  R.,  Jr.,  and  Hennesy,  C.  A.  1966.  Knee  disarticulation  and  a  new  knee  joint 
mechanism.  J.  Bone  and  Joint  Surg.  (Am)  28:126-39. 

Moss,  J.  H.  1970.  More  on  the  Ertl  Osteoplasty.  Newsletter.  Amputee  Clinics.  2,  #2. 
NATO  Emergency  war  surgery  handbook.  1958.  Department  of  Defense.  Washing¬ 
ton:  GPO. 


VIETNAM  WAR  AMPUTEES 


153 


Omer,  G.  E.,  Jr.,  and  Pomerantz,  G.  M.  1972.  Initial  management  of  severe  open  in¬ 
juries  and  traumatic  amputations  of  the  foot.  Arch.  Surg.  105:696-98. 

Pennell,  C.  R.,  and  Mayfield,  G.  W.  1972.  Bent  knee  pylon  for  the  below  knee  am¬ 
putee.  Physical  Therapy  52:1051-55. 

Utterback,  T.  D.,  and  Rhobrer,  D.  W.  1973.  Knee  disarticulation  level  as  an  amputa¬ 
tion  level.  J.  Trauma.  2:1 16-20. 

Wilber,  M.  C.  1970.  Combat  amputees.  Clin.  Orthop.  68:10-13. 

Wilson,  P.  D.  1969.  Early  weightbearing  in  treatment  of  amputations  of  lower  limbs. 
J.  Bone  and  Joint  Surg.  4:224-47. 


8 


Peripheral  Nerve  Problems 

Colonel  George  E.  Omer,  Jr.,  MC,  USA  (Ret.),  and 
Colonel  William  W.  Eversmann,  Jr.,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 


Final  disposition  data  from  Army  hospitals  in  Vietnam  indicate  an  incidence  of  pe¬ 
ripheral  nerve  injuries  of  approximately  7.3  percent  of  the  nonmortal  wounds  from 
1964  through  1973  (Bzik  and  Bellamy  1984;  Rothberg  et  al.  1983).  The  same  data  indi¬ 
cated  that  61  percent  of  7.138  peripheral  nerve  injuries  involved  the  upper  extremity. 
Multiple  nerve  injuries  were  more  common  in  the  upper  extremity.  In  a  series  of  653 
patients  with  upper  extremity  injuries,  188  extremities  had  multiple  nerve  involvement 
(Omer  1974).  Combined  neurovascular  injuries  are  frequent  in  battlefield  trauma.  The 
Vietnam  Vascular  Registry  (Rich  and  Spencer  1978)  recorded  concomitant  nerve  in¬ 
jury  in  42.4  percent  and  fractures  in  28.5  percent  of  1,000  acute  major  arterial  injuries. 

INITIAL  SURGERY 

The  presence  or  absence  of  a  peripheral  nerve  injury  was  of  very  little  conse¬ 
quence  in  the  resuscitation  and  initial  management  of  the  wounded  soldier.  The  nerve 
injury  was  the  secondary  result  of  the  same  hostile  action  that  caused  the  extremity 
wound,  which  was  handled  in  routine  fashion.  Associated  fracture  splintage  and  re¬ 
suscitation  was  followed  by  wound  exploration.  At  the  85th  Evacuation  Hospital,  at 
Qui  Nhon,  Vietnam,  there  was  a  concerted  attempt  made  to  identify  the  nerve  injury 
preoperatively  and  to  explore  the  damaged  nerve  during  the  debridement  procedure. 
This  effort  had  a  dual  purpose — to  protect  damaged  nerves  during  the  wound  explo¬ 
ration,  and  to  identify  the  nerve  injury  and  try  to  address  its  implications  for  subse¬ 
quent  management.  The  information  that  a  median  nerve  that  was  nonfunctioning 
preoperatively  had  proved  on  exploration  to  be  normal,  contused,  divided,  or  seg- 
mentally  lost  would  be  of  enormous  value  to  the  doctors  receiving  the  patient  in  the 
United  States.  Frequently,  such  information  never  reached  the  surgeons  managing 
the  patient  definitively  (Omer  1975).  In  most  other  hospitals  in  Vietnam,  no  definite 
search  was  made  for  the  damaged  nerve,  but  if  one  was  found,  a  note  was  made  re¬ 
garding  its  continuity  or  the  degree  of  injury  that  could  be  determined  grossly. 

Often,  especially  in  the  upper  extremity,  a  vascular  injury  would  accompany  the 
nerve  injury.  Although  in  such  a  situation  some  note  should  be  made  regarding  the 
status  of  the  nerve  which  was  in  close  proximity  to  the  damaged  vessel,  this  was  often 
not  done.  If  a  note  was  made,  it  would  not  necessarily  be  accurate,  and  incorrect  in¬ 
formation  in  such  a  circumstance  could  be  more  damaging  than  no  information. 
Such  mistakes  were  common,  in  part  because  only  a  few  of  the  surgeons  actually  de- 
briding  extremity  wounds  had  extensive  experience  in  peripheral  nerve  surgery  or 
were  well  enough  versed  in  the  cross-sectional  anatomy  to  be  able  to  identify  dam- 


156 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


aged  nerves  in  the  swollen,  distorted  extremity.  In  addition,  since  the  main  problem 
was  wound  debridement  and  vascular  repair,  surgeons  were  reluctant  to  search  for 
damaged  nerves  before  vascular  repair  because  it  would  prolong  the  ischemic  period 
to  the  limb.  Searching  after  vascular  repair,  however,  might  compromise  the  repair. 

The  diagnosis  of  peripheral  nerve  injury  was  more  likely  to  be  made  in  the  com¬ 
munication  zone,  although  it  might  be  made  on  physical  examination  rather  than  by 
surgery.  But  an  isolated  peripheral  nerve  injury  without  fracture  was  not  likely  to  be 
specifically  addressed  in  a  communication  zone.  Patient  stabilization,  wound  con¬ 
trol,  and  subsequent  wound  closure  were  the  major  concerns,  and  nonoperative  and 
occasional  operative  stabilization  of  fractures  before  evacuation  to  the  zone  of  inte¬ 
rior  were  also  carried  out  at  this  time.  More  frequently  than  not,  wound  closure 
would  be  obtained,  rehabilitation  of  the  extremity  would  be  instituted,  and  splintage 
as  required  by  occupational  or  physical  therapy  modalities  or  perhaps  even  a  plaster 
cast  would  be  added  before  the  patient's  evacuation.  A  patient  with  a  long  bone  frac¬ 
ture  might  be  held  in  the  communication  zone  for  a  long  period  of  time  to  gain  some 
degree  of  skeletal  stability  before  the  application  of  the  plaster  cast  for  evacuation. 

Because  causalgia  would  easily  develop  within  one  to  two  weeks  of  injury,  it  was 
usually  first  seen  in  the  communication  zone.  It  has  always  been  felt,  perhaps  incor¬ 
rectly  so,  that  causalgia  is  a  problem  that  develops  a  number  of  weeks  or  months  after 
the  major  mixed  nerve  injury,  but  our  experience  in  Vietnam  led  us  to  conclude  that  it 
was  essential  to  institute  treatment  early  in  order  to  bring  about  a  successful  conclusion 
of  the  causalgic  problem.  In  general  the  more  proximal  the  nerve  injury  and  the  less  de¬ 
structive  in  character  the  wound,  the  more  likely  the  patient  was  to  develop  a  causalgic 
pattern.  The  management  of  causalgia  is  not  controversial,  but  certainly  the  results  of 
the  treatment  options  are  far  better  with  the  institution  of  early  treatment.  The  sur¬ 
geons  in  the  communication  zone  who  initially  recognized  this  phenomenon  and  began 
early  sympathetic  blocks  and/or  surgical  sympathectomies  are  to  be  congratulated. 

Depending  upon  the  patient  flow,  the  amount  of  hostile  action,  and  the  presence  of 
associated  injuries,  patients  with  peripheral  nerve  damage  could  arrive  in  the  zone  of 
the  interior  within  a  few  days  of  the  initial  injury  with  open  wounds,  or  they  could  ar¬ 
rive  several  weeks  following  the  initial  injury  in  a  plaster  cast  with  a  surgically  closed 
and  clean  wound.  Nevertheless,  our  initial  plan  was  to  obtain  wound  control,  then  to 
close  the  wound,  and  finally  to  achieve  skeletal  stability  and  rehabilitate  the  patient’s 
injured  limb.  The  time  from  nerve  injury  to  definitive  nerve  repair  or  graft  could  be  as 
long  as  a  few  weeks  to  several  months.  In  most  situations  in  the  zone  of  the  interior, 
the  patient  with  a  nerve  injury  had  far  more  than  an  isolated  nerve  wound.  He  proba¬ 
bly  had  a  diffuse  extremity  injury  that  required  skin  grafting  or  closure  with  flaps.  Per¬ 
haps  bone  grafts  for  skeletal  stability  were  needed  before  the  nerve  injury  could  be  ad¬ 
dressed  surgically.  The  surgeons  responsible  for  these  patients  in  the  United  States 
disagreed  on  their  management.  One  group  believed  that  as  soon  as  the  diagnosis  of  a 
peripheral  nerve  injury  was  made  and  as  soon  as  the  internal  environment  of  the  limb 
permitted  an  operative  procedure,  the  nerve  should  be  explored,  grafted,  or  repaired 
as  necessary  (Brown  1970).  A  second  group  felt  that  spontaneous  recovery  was  likely 
to  occur  in  the  majority  of  the  patients  and  therefore,  whether  the  injury  was  low  or 
high  velocity,  watchful  waiting  and  further  rehabilitation  of  the  limb  was  preferable  to 
a  secondary  exploratory  procedure  (Omer  1982).  In  the  majority  of  these  cases,  enter¬ 
ing  the  limb  to  deal  with  a  nerve  injury  early  or  as  soon  as  a  closed  wound  had  been 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


157 


obtained  was  probably  not  going  to  be  useful.  Surgical  exploration  might  well  be 
needed  in  a  small  number  of  patients  treated  by  watchful  waiting,  limb  rehabilitation, 
and  other  procedures  that  were  required  rather  than  by  concentrating  so  much  on 
nerve  exploration  and  repair.  Omer  was  a  proponent  of  watchful  waiting,  as  much  of 
the  published  information  from  Brooke  Army  Medical  Center  in  Texas  confirms.  Al¬ 
though  Brown  from  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  in  Colorado  was  a  proponent  of 
early  nerve  exploration  and  repair,  as  required,  and/or  neurolysis,  Omer  felt  that,  since 
most  of  the  nerve  injuries  were  concussive  in  nature  and  recovery  was  likely  to  occur, 
surgical  exploration  was  meddlesome. 

Experience  has  demonstrated  that  the  initial  exploration  and  debridement  and 
the  delineation  of  the  status  of  the  nerve  at  the  time  of  wounding  (initial  surgery) 
was  extremely  important.  An  additional  exploration  of  the  extremity  could  be 
avoided  when  a  nerve  palsy  existed  in  a  nerve  that  had  already  been  explored  and 
found  to  be  in  continuity  although  contused. 

SPONTANEOUS  RECOVERY 

Sunderland  studied,  retrospectively,  a  series  of  patients  during  World  War  II  and 
found  spontaneous  recovery  in  68  percent  (1972).  Rakolta  and  Omer  (1969)  observed 
that  spontaneous  regeneration  could  be  delayed  up  to  eleven  months  without  excluding 
the  possibility  of  clinical  recovery  (table  8).  Omer  (1982)  developed  a  prospective  study 
of  595  gunshot  wounds  from  Vietnam  to  determine  the  percentage  of  spontaneous  re¬ 
covery.  Spontaneous  recovery  occurred  in  227  of  331  low-velocity  gunshot  wounds  (69 
percent)  and  183  of  264  high-velocity  gunshot  wounds  (69  percent)  (table  9). 

Table  8. — Interval  between  injury  and  spontaneous  recovery  in  gunshot  wounds  12 


(Neurapraxia)  (Axonotmesis)  (Axonotmesis) 


Nerve  0-4  months  4-9  months  9  +  months 


Radial .  20  9  2 

Median .  10  7  — 

Ulnar .  9  13  4 

Sciatic  and  Popliteals .  14  14  3 

Femoral .  1  4  1 


Total  (111) .  54  47  10 


1  Rakolta,  George  G.  and  Omer,  George  E.,  Jr.  Combat-sustained  femoral  nerve  injuries.  Surg.  Gynecol.  Obstel.  128:813-817.  1969. 

2  Seddon,  Herbert  J.  Surgical  disorders  of  peripheral  nerve.  Second  edition.  Edinburgh:  Churchill  Livingstone,  1975. 


Prognosis  is  more  accurate  if  the  time  required  for  return  of  clinical  function  is 
known.  Omer  (1974)  selected  two  parameters  for  a  time  frame:  (a)  the  interval 
after  injury  at  which  one-half  of  the  nerves  had  recovered  function,  and  (b)  the  in¬ 
terval  after  injury  after  which  only  10  percent  of  the  nerves  recovered  function. 
This  established  a  time  frame  from  three  to  nine  months  in  90  percent  of  the  nerve 
lesions  that  demonstrated  spontaneous  recovery.  Proximal  (high)  extremity  injuries 
took  a  longer  time  to  show  clinical  function  than  distal  (low)  injuries.  Extensive  in¬ 
juries  producing  multiple  nerve  lesions  needed  a  longer  time  period  to  show  clinical 
function  than  isolated  nerve  injuries  (table  10). 


158 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Table  9. — Time  scale  in  months  for  spontaneous  recovery  in  gunshot  wounds  1 


Isolated  Nerve  Lesions 

Above-the-elbow 

Below-the-elbow 

Low- Velocity . . 

High-Velocity . . 

.  4-7  mos.  (48) 

.  3-6  mos.  (31) 

3-6  mos.  (90) 
3-6  mos.  (32) 

Multiple  Nerve  Lesions 

Above-the-elbow 

Below-the-elbow 

Low- Velocity . 

High-Velocity . 

.  5-8  mos.  (41) 

.  5-9  mos.  (65) 

3-7  mos.  (48) 
5-8  mos.  (55) 

Total  (410) 

(185) 

(225) 

1  Omer,  George  E„  Jr.  Injuries  to  nerves  of  the  upper  extremity.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg.  (Ant.)  56A:1615- 1624,  1974. 


Table  10. — Summary  of  upper  extremity  nerve  injuries  at  Brooke  Army  Medical  Center 


Nerve  injury  per  extremity  Number  of  extremities  Total  nerve  lesions 


Single .  475  475 

Double .  137  274 

Triple .  36  108 

Quadruple .  15  60 


Total .  >663  917 


1  Ten  patients  had  bilateral  involvement. 

Source:  Omer,  George  E.,  Jr.  1974.  Injuries  to  nerves  of  the  upper  extremity.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg.  56A:1615-1624. 


MANAGEMENT  OF  PAINFUL  NEUROMA 
IN  CONTINUITY  AND  CAUSALGIA 

Many  clinical  syndromes  involving  burning  pain,  abnormal  vasomotor  response, 
and  dystrophy  have  been  described  in  medical  literature  since  the  American  Civil 
War,  the  first  major  conflict  in  which  high-velocity  missile  injuries  were  common.  The 
dreadful  pain  associated  with  penetrating  injuries  of  nerves  was  best  described  by  S. 
Weir  Mitchell,  George  R.  Morehouse,  and  William  W.  Keen  in  their  monograph  in 
1864,  although  the  condition  of  causalgia  had  been  described  as  early  as  1813  by  A. 
Denmark,  another  military  surgeon  whose  patient  was  wounded  in  the  arm  at  the 
storming  of  Badajoz  (Sunderland  1972).  Classic  causalgia  may  have  variants  that  are 
termed  Leriche’s  posttraumatic  pain  syndrome  (minor  causalgia),  Sudek’s  atrophy,  or 
shoulder-arm-hand  syndrome  (Lankford  1980). 

The  incidence  of  causalgia  has  generally  varied  with  the  criteria  used  for  diagno¬ 
sis.  Data  from  World  War  I  and  World  War  II  indicate  that  causalgia  occurs  in  2  to  4 
percent  of  wounds  involving  major  nerves  (Rothberg  et  al.  1983).  Omer  and 
Thomas  (1972)  indicated  that  in  a  54-month  Vietnam  series,  74  percent  of  the  cases 
of  causalgia  involved  the  median  or  sciatic-tibial  nerves.  These  cases  included  a 
high  incidence  of  multiple  nerve  injuries;  only  21  percent  were  due  to  wounds  distal 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


159 


to  the  elbow  or  knee.  The  lower  extremity  was  involved  more  often  than  the  upper 
extremity  (table  11).  In  49  percent  of  the  cases  in  this  Vietnam  series,  the  onset  of 
pain  was  within  the  first  twenty-four  hours  after  injury,  and  in  70  percent,  it  oc¬ 
curred  within  the  first  week  (table  12). 


Table  11. — Causalgia:  Nerves  involved  (1966-70),  during  Vietnam  War  1 


Nerve 

Number  of  cases 

Level  of  injury 

Above  elbow  or  knee  Below  elbow  or  knee 

Upper  Limb  Brachial  Plexus . 

8 

8 

Median . 

25 

15 

10 

Ulnar . 

2 

1 

1 

Radial . 

1 

— 

1 

Lower  Limb  Sacral  Plexus . 

7 

7 

— 

Sciatic . 

24 

24 

— 

Tibial  . 

8 

4 

4 

Peroneal . 

1 

1 

— 

Femoral . 

1 

1 

— 

Total . 

77 

61 

16 

1  Omer,  George  E..  Jr.  and  Thomas,  S.  R.  1972.  Abstract:  Peripheral  periodic  infusion  sympathectomy  for  the  treatment  of  causalgia.  J. 
Bone  Joint  Surg.  (Am.)  54:  898-899. 


Table  12. — Causalgia:  Time  of  onset  of  symptoms  (1969-70),  during  Vietnam  War  1 


Time  Upper  extremity  Lower  extremity  Total 


Day  of  Injury.  . .  18  20  38 

First  Week .  9  7  16 

One-Three  Weeks .  5  9  14 

Three-Six  Weeks .  3  2  5 

Over  Six  Weeks .  1  3  4 


Total .  36  41  77 


1  Omer,  George  E.,  Jr.  and  Thomas,  S.  R.  1972.  Abstract:  Peripheral  periodic  infusion  sympathectomy  for  the  treatment  of  causalgia.  J. 
Bone  Joint  Surg.  (Am.)  54:  898-899. 


Chemical  Blocks 

Treatment  should  be  instituted  as  soon  as  the  syndrome  causalgia  is  suspected 
(tables  13  and  14).  A  central  chemical  sympathetic  block  should  be  performed 
promptly  as  a  diagnostic  test  as  well  as  a  therapeutic  procedure.  The  anterior  ap¬ 
proach  is  preferred  for  a  stellate  block,  with  a  paravertebral  injection  of  the  lumbar 
sympathetic  chain.  While  the  patient  is  free  from  pain,  an  accurate  physical  examina¬ 
tion  of  the  extremity  can  be  performed.  Subsequent  central  blocks  may  utilize  an 
anesthetic  agent  with  a  longer  duration,  such  as  bupivacaine.  A  series  of  four  or  five 
blocks  should  be  given  on  consecutive  days;  one  placebo  of  normal  saline  solution 
should  be  given  during  the  series  to  confirm  the  diagnosis.  The  potential  for  the  series 
of  blocks  to  give  permanent  relief  of  pain  is  uncertain,  but  some  generalizations  were 
made.  One  block  may  give  total  relief  or  reduce  residual  pain  to  a  tolerable  level.  The 


160 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


effective  duration  of  the  first  block  may  exceed  that  expected  of  the  agent,  and  subse¬ 
quent  blocks  may  give  progressively  shorter  pain-free  periods.  Lastly,  the  block  gives 
relief  only  for  the  duration  expected  from  the  anesthetic  agent  used  (Omer  and  Sey¬ 
mour  1969).  If  the  block  series  produces  total  relief  or  reduction  of  pain  to  a  tolerable 
level  for  progressively  longer  pain-free  periods,  the  prognosis  for  permanent  im¬ 
provement  is  excellent.  If  the  block  series  gives  shorter  pain-free  periods  or  less  relief 
than  expected,  permanent  improvement  should  not  be  expected  (Bzik  1984). 


Table  13. — Causalgia:  Causative  agent  (1966-78),  during  Vietnam  War 1 


Agent 

Upper  extremity  Lower  extremity 

Total 

Gunshot  Wound.  High-Velocity 

18 

23 

41 

Fragment  Wound . 

12 

14 

26 

Crush  Wound . 

3 

2 

5 

Aircraft  Accident . 

1 

2 

3 

Stab  Wound/Injection . 

2 

0 

2 

Total . 

36 

41 

77 

1  Omer,  George  E.,  Jr.  and  Thomas,  S. 

R.  1972.  Abstract:  Peripheral  periodic  infusion  sympathectomy  for  the  treatment  of  causalgia.  J. 

Bone  Joint  Surg.  (Am.)  54:  898-899. 

Table  14. — Causalgia:  Results  of  treatment  (1966-70),  during  Vietnam  War' 

Improved 

Failure 

Method 

Cases 

Upper  Lower 

Upper 

Lower 

Chemical  Sympathectomy: 

Central  Block . 

43 

7  11 

11 

14 

Epidural  (Spinal  Cord) .  .  . 

4 

4 

— 

— 

Peripheral  Infusion . 

30 

5  9 

2 

14 

77 

36  (47%) 

41  (53%) 

Surgery: 

Central  Sympathectomy  .  . 

37 

20  14 

1 

2 

Destruction  of  Nerve  .... 

2 

-  - 

2 

— 

Neurolysis . 

1 

—  — 

1 

— 

Removal  of  Foreign  Body. 

1 

1 

— 

— 

41 

35  (85%) 

6  (15%) 

,  1  Omer.  George  E.,  Jr.  and  Thomas,  S.  R.  1972.  Abstract:  Peripheral  periodic  infusion  sympathectomy  for  the  treatment  of  causalgia.  J. 

Bone  Joint  Surg.  (Am.)  54A:  898-899. 


The  technique  for  a  peripheral  chemical  sympathectomy  in  an  extremity  was  de¬ 
veloped  at  Brooke  General  Hospital  during  the  Vietnam  War  (Omer  and  Thomas 
1971,  1972,  1974).  When  the  patient  with  causalgia  was  examined,  the  involved  ex¬ 
tremity  was  tapped  very  gently  from  distal  to  proximal  to  demonstrate  any  “trigger 
points"  of  extreme  irritation.  If  a  “trigger  point"  was  found,  the  area  was  surgically 
prepared  and  marked  with  a  sterile  pen.  After  local  cutaneous  anesthesia,  a  16-gauge 
needle  was  inserted  into  the  area  of  irritation.  The  needle  was  aspirated  to  avoid 
blood  vessel  penetration,  and  a  flexible  18-gauge  polyethylene  intravenous  catheter 
was  inserted  through  the  16-gauge  needle.  (If  performed  in  this  manner,  the  intra- 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


161 


venous  catheter  should  not  penetrate  a  nerve  or  blood  vessel.)  The  larger  bore  16- 
gauge  needle  was  removed,  and  the  catheter  was  left  in  place  so  that  infusions  could 
be  injected  without  another  skin  puncture.  One-half  milliliter  of  0.5  percent  lidocaine 
hydrochloride  was  injected  into  the  intravenous  catheter  for  anesthetic  effect.  If  the 
“trigger  point”  pain  was  relieved,  the  venacatheter  was  capped  and  taped  in  place. 
The  anesthetic  block  usually  was  insufficient  for  complete  motor  or  sensory  paralysis. 

The  pain-free  patient  was  asked  to  exercise  the  extremity,  to  walk,  and  to  perform 
assigned  physical  therapy.  If  the  anesthetic  block  was  not  effective,  an  additional 
milliliter  of  lidocaine  was  injected  periodically.  The  patient  decided  the  frequency  of  in¬ 
jection,  dependent  upon  pain  relief.  The  usual  regimen  was  2  percent  lidocaine  hy¬ 
drochloride  solution  with  1/100,000  epinephrine  every  four  hours.  The  volume  for  each 
injection  ranged  from  0.5  to  1  ml.,  and  the  time  between  injections  ranged  from  one  to 
ten  hours.  The  average  time  between  injections  was  2.2  hours  during  the  acute  stage, 
and  3.4  hours  as  the  effect  of  the  peripheral  sympathectomy  decreased  pain  and  muscle 
strength  improved.  Infusions  were  continued  for  two  weeks  in  a  few  cases.  If  there  was 
more  than  one  area  of  irritation,  separate  intravenous  catheters  were  used  for  each 
“trigger  point”  (fig.  45).  In  contrast  to  a  central  chemical  stellate  block,  the  peripheral 
sympathectomy  is  a  ward  procedure  that  could  be  performed  simultaneously  with  other 
modes  of  treatment.  The  peripheral  sympathectomy  should  block  the  local  formation 
of  neurokinin  more  effectively  than  the  central  chemical  block.  It  relieves  painful  symp¬ 
toms  for  a  variable  period  of  time,  but  is  much  less  effective  in  those  cases  where  the 
pain  has  been  untreated  and  unrelieved  for  three  months  or  more  after  injury. 

During  the  Vietnam  War,  the  peripheral  chemical  sympathetic  blockade  was  used  for 
causalgia  and  other  reflex  sympathetic  overflow  syndromes  as  well  as  for  specific  periph¬ 
eral  nociceptive  increased  stimuli,  such  as  neuroma.  While  peripheral  chemical  sympa¬ 
thetic  block  was  used  for  all  painful  conditions  in  an  extremity,  its  major  usefulness  was 
in  the  management  of  peripheral  neuroma  in  continuity.  This  was  especially  true  if  there 
was  significant  remaining  distal  motor  and  sensor  function.  The  causalgia  that  responded 
to  a  series  of  stellate  ganglion  blocks  was  usually  treated  by  sympathectomy  (fig.  46). 
Baker  and  Winegamer  (1969)  and  Omer  and  Thomas  (1971,  1972,  1974)  reported  im¬ 
provement  in  59  and  65  cases  following  surgical  sympathectomy  during  the  Vietnam 
War.  The  transaxillary  approach  was  preferred  over  the  posterior  transcostal  approach. 

The  sympathetic  chain  was  removed  from  the  fourth  thoracic  level  superior  to 
include  the  lower  half  of  the  stellate  ganglion.  Horner’s  syndrome,  which  could  be 
annoying  to  the  patient,  was  present  less  often  after  the  transaxillary  approach, 
which  permits  removal  of  only  the  lower  half  of  the  stellate  ganglion,  than  after  the 
supraclavicular  approach.  In  the  lower  extremity,  a  retroperitoneal  approach 
through  a  lateral  flank  incision,  as  described  by  White  and  Sweet  in  1969,  allowed 
removal  of  the  sympathetic  ganglions  from  the  second  to  the  fifth  lumbar  level. 
Postoperative  precise  sudomotor  function  tests  demonstrated  whether  sympathetic 
enervation  of  the  involved  extremity  was  complete. 

Interviews  with  patients  who  were  not  improved  by  peripheral  chemical  blocks  or 
surgical  sympathectomy  indicated  a  trend  toward  gradual  tolerance  to  the  pain  after 
three  years  or  more.  The  pain  still  was  considered  severe,  but  no  longer  dominated  the 
patient’s  life,  and  most  activities  of  daily  living  could  be  performed.  Experience  also 
demonstrated  that  if  the  chemical  peripheral  or  central  sympathetic  blockade  is  not  ef¬ 
fective,  permanent  improvement  by  surgical  sympathectomy  should  not  be  expected. 


162 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  45.—' The  “trigger  point”  is  demonstrated  with  retrograde  tapping  (Tinel's  sign) 
from  distal  to  proximal  along  the  nerve  trunk.  Local  anesthesia  is  used  just  proximal  to 
the  trigger  point.  A  flexible  intravenous  catheter  is  inserted  through  the  needle.  Local 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


163 


anesthetic  is  injected  through  the  intravenous  catheter.  If  pain  is  relieved,  the  ve- 
nacatheter  is  capped  and  taped  to  the  extremity.  Multiple  injections  could  be  used. 


164 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  46. — Surgical  scar  following  surgical 
sympathectomy.  The  clips  demonstrate  the  ex¬ 
tent  of  the  sympathetic  chain  that  was  removed. 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


165 


Phantom  Pain 

A  significant  problem  in  the  military  population  is  phantom  pain.  Following  an 
amputation,  an  adult  feels  as  if  the  nonexistent  limb  were  still  present.  It  may  feel  ex¬ 
actly  like  the  original  limb  as  to  shape,  size,  position,  and  ability  to  move.  These  sen¬ 
sory  phenomena  are  termed  phantom  and  may  persist  for  varied  periods  of  time.  The 
phantom  has  been  reported  to  continue  from  six  months  to  twenty  years  (Frazier  and 
Kalb  1970).  Phantom  pain  is  an  entirely  different  dimension  than  is  phantom  sensa¬ 
tion.  The  patient  with  phantom  pain  resulting  from  physical  causes  can  usually  be  dis¬ 
tinguished  from  one  with  psychogenic  pain  (Frazier  and  Kalb  1970).  When  the  cause 
is  physical,  the  patient  has  a  period  of  no  pain  following  amputation,  and  the  onset  of 
pain  follows  nerve  distribution.  The  patient  with  psychogenic  problems  has  pain  im¬ 
mediately  following  amputation,  the  pain  does  not  follow  nerve  distribution,  and  it  is 
evoked  especially  by  reference  to  disturbing  events.  A  review  of  more  than  7,000  am¬ 
putees  from  World  War  II  and  Korea  treated  at  the  Navy  amputation  center  in  Oak¬ 
land  found  that  phantom  pain  exists  in  approximately  2  percent  of  amputees  (Canty 
and  Bleck  1958).  Omer  (1976,  1981)  had  an  experience  similar  to  that  of  Ewalt,  who 
reported  that  only  8  of  2,284  military  amputees  suffered  phantom  pain  (Ewalt  et  al. 
1947).  Amputee  patients  have  a  common  psychological  disturbance  and,  with  the  ad¬ 
vantage  of  group  therapy,  should  have  similar  goals.  Fitzsimons  Army  Medical  Cen¬ 
ter  developed  a  comprehensive  program  to  encourage  the  new  amputee  to  abandon 
bedridden  activities  and  enter  the  world  of  other  amputees  (Brown  1970b).  Thera¬ 
peutic  procedures  included  organized  athletics  and  social  activities.  Functional  activ¬ 
ity  was  supported  by  peers  with  similar  problems,  and  their  assurance  was  of  greater 
value  to  the  patient  than  the  prescriptions  of  therapists  and  surgeons.  The  utilization 
of  group  therapy  was  recognized  as  the  major  factor  in  rehabilitation.  Peripheral 
nerve  irritation,  abnormal  sympathetic  function,  and  psychological  factors  all  con¬ 
tribute  to  phantom  pain  (Omer  1981).  The  treatment  program  for  every  amputee  af¬ 
flicted  with  this  difficult  syndrome  must  be  approached  on  an  individual  basis. 

Functional  Activity 

The  second  principle  in  all  treatment  programs  for  pain  is  functional  activity  for 
the  involved  extremity.  Physical  modalities  may  be  divided  into  passive  and  active 
assistors.  The  passive  activities  will  improve  circulation,  decrease  edema,  prevent 
contracture,  and  prepare  the  patient  for  voluntary  participation  in  the  active  exer¬ 
cise  program.  Passive  modalities  include  elevation,  traction,  plaster  casts,  static 
splints  (orthoplast),  vibrators,  faradic  muscle  stimulation,  microwaves,  ultrasound, 
ice  packs,  hot  paraffin  packs,  combined  contrast  baths,  massage,  and  inflatable 
splints  with  positive-negative  pressure.  Delicate  desensitization  techniques  used  to 
help  the  apprehensive  patient  include  stroking  the  skin  lightly  with  a  feather,  fol¬ 
lowed  by  gentle  massage,  and  progressing  to  hot  paratfin  baths.  Other  desensitiza¬ 
tion  techniques  include  contact  with  foam  rubber  chips,  jelly  beans,  navy  beans,  and 
rice  to  provide  progressively  greater  contact  pressure  (Omer  1984).  Some  passive 
modalities  may  be  contraindicated  in  some  cases — the  whirlpool  bath,  lor  example, 
involves  dependent  heat  and  may  increase  edema  and  inflammatory  ieaction. 


166 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


The  more  important  phase  in  use  of  the  extremity  is  active  exercise,  which  can  be 
assisted  with  dynamic  splints,  supportive  exercising  slings,  and  special  handles  for 
tools.  Special  care  must  be  directed  to  key  circulation  areas,  such  as  the  rotator  cult 
muscles  in  a  shoulder-arm-hand  syndrome.  General  body  condition  is  important,  and 
the  patient  should  be  ambulatory,  if  at  all  possible,  to  meet  his  environment.  Function 
can  be  developed  with  diversional  games,  assigned  work,  and  activities  of  daily  living. 

Physicians,  physical  therapists,  occupational  therapists,  and  other  attendants 
must  be  compassionate  and  yet  stimulate  maximal  effort  in  the  patient.  The  best 
functional  activity  is  a  patient  who  has  returned  to  active  military  duty.  Ultimately, 
the  patient  “cures”  his  own  case. 

When  pain  has  subsided,  elective  surgery  such  as  tenolysis  and  joint  releases 
may  be  undertaken  in  order  to  regain  motion  after  an  extensive  physical  medicine 
program  has  been  faithfully  performed  by  the  patient.  Elective  surgery  performed 
without  these  safeguards  is  ill-advised. 

SURGICAL  TECHNIQUES 

Five  annual  conferences  on  war  surgery  were  held  in  the  Pacific  from  1967 
through  1971.  All  proceedings  emphasized  the  value  of  a  complete  description  of 
the  nerve  injury  as  observed  at  debridement.  An  appropriate  debridement  includes 
incisions  into  the  area  of  injury,  with  evaluations  of  the  damage  to  adjacent  tissue, 
of  the  state  of  the  musculature,  and  of  the  exact  site  of  the  neurovascular  lesion.  An 
estimate  of  the  percentage  of  laceration  or  disruption  should  be  reported.  Delayed 
primary  closure  was  recommended  for  the  extremity  wound.  Primary  nerve  suture 
was  discouraged  because  neurorrhaphy  should  be  performed  in  the  hospital  provid¬ 
ing  definitive  care  (CINCPAC-2,  1968)  (tables  15  and  16). 


Table  15. — Vietnam  neurorrhaphy  related  to  etiology  and  level  of  injury  1 


Etiology 

Number 

Adequate 

followup 

Clinical 

return 

Percentage 

Lacerations: 

above-elbow . 

9 

8 

3 

37 

below-elbow . 

90 

67 

30 

45 

High-velocity  gunshot: 

above-elbow . 

24 

21 

6 

28 

below-elbow . 

24 

14 

6 

43 

Low-velocity  gunshot: 

above-elbow . 

19 

18 

9 

50 

below-elbow . 

16 

14 

6 

43 

Fracture — Dislocations: 

above-elbow . 

1 

1 

0 

0 

below-elbow . 

1 

0 

0 

0 

Total . 

183 

143 

60 

42 

1  Omer.  George  E.,  Jr.  1974.  Injuries  to  nerves  of  the  upper  extremity.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg.  (Am.)  56:1615-1624. 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


167 


Table  16. — Vietnam  neurorrhaphy  secondary  suture — specific  nerves 12 


Number  returned  Some  returned 

Nerve  Number  repaired  Number  (Percent)  Number  (Percent) 


Ulnar .  68  44  (65)  24  (35) 

Median .  38  19  (50)  19  (50) 

Radial .  5  3  (60)  2  (40) 

Digital .  24  10  (40)  14  (60) 

Total .  135  76  (56)  59  (44) 


1  Brown.  P.  W.:  The  time  factor  in  surgery  of  upper-extremity  peripheral  nerve  injury.  Clin.  Ortliop.  68:14-21,  1970. 

:  Brown.  P.  W.:  Factors  influencing  the  success  of  the  surgical  repair  of  peripheral  nerves.  Surg.  Clin.  North  Am.  52:1137-1156,  1972. 


Nerve  Injury  and  Repair 

Sharp  lacerations  that  do  not  involve  loss  of  nerve  tissue  and  are  allowed  to  per¬ 
sist  for  a  number  of  weeks  or  months  create  nerve  gaps.  In  complex  extremity  in¬ 
juries  with  fractures  and  tissue  loss,  the  nerve  gap  may  result  from  scarring  and  loss 
of  nerve  substance.  Overcoming  nerve  gaps  was  a  significant  problem  for  surgeons 
in  the  zone  of  interior. 

World  War  II  studies  (Woodhall  and  Beebe  1956)  indicated  an  average  loss  of  6 
percent  from  the  optimal  motor  recovery  for  every  centimeter  of  nerve  gap.  A  nerve 
gap  of  7.5  centimeters  was  the  maximum  amount  that  could  be  approximated  without 
requiring  rigid  immobilization  of  the  extremity  in  flexion  (Omer  1976).  During  the 
Vietnam  War,  the  techniques  used  to  close  a  nerve  gap  included: 

Mobilization  of  nerve  trunk.  This  longitudinal  release  forces  the  nerve  to  sur¬ 
vive  on  its  internal  longitudinal  circulation. 

Shortening  the  skeleton.  Potentially  dangerous  because  all  soft  tissue  structures, 
such  as  muscle-tendon  unit,  are  relatively  lengthened  and  weakened. 

Bulb  suture.  An  unacceptable  technique  because  it  produces  acute  stretch  of 
the  nerve.  There  should  be  minimal  longitudinal  tension,  and  functional  failure  has 
been  reported  when  stretching  as  little  as  5  percent  of  the  length  (Lui  et  al.  1948). 

Transposition  and  rerouting.  An  example  is  transferring  the  ulnar  nerve  from 
the  extensor  to  the  flexor  surface  at  the  elbow  (fig.  47).  At  Letterman  General  Hos¬ 
pital,  Mutz  recorded  that  3  to  5  centimeters  of  radial  nerve  could  become  available 
to  close  a  gap  by  anterior  transposition  of  the  nerve  following  dissection  of  the 
proximal  segment  to  the  level  of  the  posterior  cord  ol  the  brachial  plexus.  II  a 
choice  is  available,  the  distal  portion  of  a  nerve  should  be  rerouted,  since  the  proxi¬ 
mal  portion  contains  the  regenerating  axons. 

Flexion  of  joints.  The  elbow  or  knee  should  not  flex  beyond  90  degrees,  nor  the 
wrist  beyond  30  degrees.  After  the  initial  healing  period  ol  thiee  to  six  weeks,  joints 
should  be  extended  only  10  degrees  per  week  to  prevent  intrinsic  ischemia  (Highet 
and  Sanders  1943). 

Nerve  grafts.  Autogenous  material  is  preferred  for  graft;  the  sural  nerve  and  the 
medial  or  lateral  antebrachial  cutaneous  nerve  are  the  best  sources. 


168 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  47. — The  ulnar  nerve  has  been  freed  from  the  ulnar  groove  and  the  muscles  in¬ 
serting  into  the  medial  epicondyle,  then  transposed  to  the  anterior  aspect  of  the  upper 
extremity  for  an  epineurial  repair. 


During  the  Vietnam  War,  the  use  of  magnification,  delicate  instruments,  and 
finer,  less  reactive  suture  material  improved  the  techniques  of  nerve  suture.  In  addi¬ 
tion,  battle  area  evacuation  was  more  expeditious.  An  effort  was  made  to  perform 
suture  as  early  as  possible.  Seventy  percent  of  the  successful  anastomoses  were  per¬ 
formed  within  six  weeks  of  injury  (Omer  1974).  The  majority  of  sutures  were  per¬ 
formed  within  the  first  3  months  after  injury.  Omer  (1974)  reported  the  results  of 
143  epineural  sutures  of  upper  extremity  nerves  followed  for  at  least  twelve  months 
and  Brown  (1970)  recorded  the  results  of  135  epineural  sutures  followed  6  to  24 
months  (table  16).  Neither  study  had  adequate  follow-up,  and  the  results  are  not 
fully  graded.  Brown  (1970b)  states  “some  return.”  Omer  (1974)  has  two  criteria  for 
“clinical  return”:  for  above-elbow  lesion — progressive  motor  return  with  indepen¬ 
dent  movement  and  point  localization  of  3.84  von  Frey  filament  without  over-re¬ 
sponse  (M3-S2);  for  below-elbow — progressive  motor  return  with  independent 
movement  and  two-point  discrimination,  less  than  20  millimeters  (M3-S3)  was 
needed.  In  addition,  Omer  (1974)  noted  that  none  of  his  patients  with  above-elbow 
neurorrhaphy  had  recovery  of  the  intrinsic  muscle  of  the  hand  during  the  period  of 
study.  The  results  of  the  two  Vietnam  series  were  similar  and  indicated  that  only  40 
to  45  percent  of  sutured  nerves  result  in  progressive  functional  return.  Final  recov¬ 
ery  was  not  complete  and  therefore  not  evaluated.  We  now  know  there  is  significant 
recovery  up  to  five  years  (Omer  1990,  1991). 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


169 


Neurolysis 

Neurolysis  has  often  been  recommended  when  an  intact  nerve  was  found  on  explo¬ 
ration  ot  a  nonfunctioning  nerve.  During  World  War  II,  according  to  Woodhall  and 
Beebe  (1956)  neurolysis  was  external  in  70  percent  of  cases,  with  saline  injection  in  25 
percent  and  fascicular  dissection  in  5  percent.  These  authors  found  no  evidence  that 
internal  and  external  neurolyses  differed  in  their  effect  on  recovery.  During  the  Viet¬ 
nam  War  neurolysis  was  primarily  an  external  technique.  Brown  (1970)  utilized  mag¬ 
nification  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  to  perform  intraneural  fascicular  dissection. 

Omer  (1974)  performed  external  and  internal  neurolysis  in  59  cases  in  which  the 
injured  nerve  was  found  in  continuity,  but  bound  in  scar.  When  50  of  the  cases  were 
followed  more  than  three  months,  neurolysis  was  found  to  have  been  successful  in  60 
percent  of  the  nerves.  The  return  of  function  was  more  successful  in  above-elbow  le¬ 
sions  (18  of  29  nerves  compared  with  12  of  21  nerves  in  below-elbow  lesions). 

There  is  doubt  concerning  the  success  of  a  neurolysis  if  function  of  the  extremity 
returns  during  the  time  scale  for  spontaneous  recovery  after  injury.  The  intact  nerve 
may  have  recovered  without  the  surgery.  In  those  patients  (table  17)  who  had  neu¬ 
rolysis,  12  recovered  function  during  the  time  frame  for  spontaneous  recovery. 
Therefore,  Omer  (1974)  considered  the  net  result  of  neurolysis  as  successful  in  only 
18  (36  percent)  of  50  nerve  lesions.  Kline’s  subsequent  studies  would  indicate  an  in- 
vivo  nerve  action  potential  study  during  the  neurolysis  procedure  (Kline  and  De- 
Jong  1968;  Kline  1980,  450-61). 


Table  17. — Vietnam  cases  1  with  external  neurolysis 


Function  return  in 
the  time  range  for 

3  month  or  Clinical  return  spontaneous 

Etiology  more  followup  of  function  recovery  Net  result 


25  high-velocity  gunshot .  24  9  3  6 

24  low- velocity  gunshot .  21  16  7  9 

5  fractures .  4  4  2  2 

5  lacerations .  1  1  0  1 


59  Total .  50  30  12  18 


1  Omer,  George  E„  Jr.  1974.  Injuries  to  nerves  of  the  upper  extremity.  J.  Bone  Joint  Sitrg.  (Am.)  56:1615-1624. 


Nerve  Grafts 

Only  a  limited  number  of  grafts  were  performed  during  the  Vietnam  War  (table 
18).  Most  of  these  were  free  cable  or  pedicle  grafts  done  without  consideration  for 
precise  longitudinal  alignment  of  the  fasciculi  groups.  No  information  is  retrievable 
concerning  the  nerve  gap  that  was  closed  or  the  longitudinal  tension  on  the  nerve 
graft.  All  were  delayed  procedures,  more  than  three  months  after  injury.  Only  four 
of  thirty-four  grafts  (12  percent)  demonstrated  functional  activity. 

The  number  of  nerve  grafts  performed  was  small,  the  follow-up  was  variable,  and 
the  results  were  disappointing.  Usually  the  battle-injured  peripheral  nerve  had  a 
scarred  bed  and  a  long  gap  secondary  to  nerve  loss.  Often,  a  long  time  had  passed 


170 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


from  injury  to  graft.  Frequently  the  injury  was  proximal  so  the  distance  that  regener¬ 
ating  axons  had  to  travel  was  long.  All  of  these  factors  would  portend  a  poor  result. 

A  cable  graft  is  preferable  to  a  full-thickness  main  nerve  trunk  graft  because  the 
full-thickness  graft  is  in  jeopardy  of  inadequate  revascularization  with  central 
necrosis.  The  technique  involves  a  microsurgical  anastomosis  with  several  cables  of 
fascicular  groups  matched  to  the  pattern  of  fascicular  groups  in  the  proximal  and 
distal  trunks  of  the  injured  nerve.  Nerve  grafts  should  be  done  by  an  experienced 
surgeon  and  as  soon  as  clinically  possible  after  the  nerve  injury  (fig.  48). 

Table  18. — Autogenous  grafts  of  major  nerves — Vietnam  War 1 


Autogenous  grafts 

Types  of  grafts  No  return  Clinical  return 


Upper  limb: 

Cable .  20 

Pedicle .  3 

Lower  limb: 

Cable .  7 

Pedicle .  0 


Total  (34) .  30 


2 

0 

0 

2 


4 


1  Onier,  George  E.,  Jr.:  Survey  of  Peripheral  Nerve  Injuries  and  Management  Techniques  (Committee  on  the  History  of  Orthopaedic 
Surgery  in  Vietnam),  May  14,  1974. 


Figure  48. — Fascicular  bundle  nerve  grafts  of  the  ulnar  nerve  in  the  forearm  to  esta- 
balish  longitudinal  internal  alignment.  The  sural  nerve  was  the  donor  for  these  grafts. 


EXTREMITY  RECONSTRUCTION 
Motor  Function 

Several  surgical  techniques  were  developed  during  the  Vietnam  War  for  se¬ 
lected  early  tendon  transfers  to  serve  as  internal  splints  and  to  enhance  function 
while  awaiting  nerve  regeneration  in  the  upper  extremity  (Brown  1969;  Burkhalter 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


171 


1974;  Omer  1968).  The  objectives  of  early  tendon  transfers  are  to  stimulate  sensibil¬ 
ity  reeducation  and  to  improve  the  coordination  of  residual  muscle-tendon  units. 
The  muscle-tendon  units  used  for  early  internal  support  should  be  synergistic  with 
the  muscle-tendon  unit  to  be  replaced,  such  as  a  wrist  flexor  in  substitute  for  a  fin¬ 
ger  extensor.  A  synergistic  tendon  will  be  able  to  utilize  spinal  reflex  arcs  and  other 
automatic  feedback  mechanisms  to  enhance  reeducation.  Two  principles  are  fol¬ 
lowed:  use  as  few  muscle-tendon  transfers  as  possible,  since  any  active  muscle-ten¬ 
don  unit  used  to  restore  a  useful  extremity  position  will  weaken  the  strength  of  the 
residual  active  function;  and  avoid  performing  a  muscle-tendon  transfer  that  will 
cause  deformity  when  the  nerve  function  recovers. 

Burkhalter  and  associates  (1968)  utilized  a  direct  transfer  of  the  extensor  indicis 
proprius  to  restore  thumb  opposition  in  median  palsy  (fig.  49).  This  extensor  mus¬ 
cle-tendon  transfer  has  the  advantage  of  introducing  new  strength  into  a  weakened 
power-train  for  flexion,  while  conventional  flexor  muscle-tendon  transfers  for 
thumb  opposition,  such  as  the  ring  flex  digitorum  superficialis,  represent  a  rear¬ 
rangement  of  volar  muscle  strength  already  committed  to  flexion  activity. 

Omer  (1974b)  stabilized  the  clawed  ring  and  little  fingers  and  improved  thumb- 
index  pinch  power  in  low  ulnar  palsy  with  a  single  flexor  digitorum  superficialis  (fig. 
50).  The  flexor  digitorum  superficialis  cannot  be  used  if  the  ulnar  innervated  portion 
of  the  flexor  digitorum  profundus  is  paralyzed.  The  flexor  digitorum  superficialis  is 
first  split  longitudinally,  and  the  ulnar  half  is  again  split  into  two  slips.  The  two  slips 
of  the  ulnar  half  of  the  tendon  are  directed  volar  to  the  intermetacarpal  ligament 
into  one  of  two  possible  insertions;  either  into  the  central  slip  of  the  extensor  mecha¬ 
nism  insertion  on  the  middle  phalanx  or  into  the  A-2  pulley  of  the  flexor  sheaths  in 
the  ring  and  little  fingers.  The  transfer  should  correct  metacarpophalangeal  hyperex¬ 
tension  and  improve  interphalangeal  coordinated  flexion.  The  radial  half  of  the  su¬ 
perficialis  tendon  is  directed  across  the  adductor  pollices,  distal  to  the  volar  palmar 
ligament  and  dorsal  to  the  flexor  tendons,  into  the  insertion  of  the  abductor  pollices 
brevis  for  improved  pinch  strength  and  to  reinforce  thumb  pronation. 

If  a  power  grip  is  a  major  consideration,  Burkhalter  and  Strait  (1973)  lengthen 
the  extensor  carpi  radialis  longus  or  the  brachioradialis  with  a  multiple  tailed  free 
tendon  graft  through  the  lumbrical  space,  volar  to  the  intermetacarpal  ligament,  to 
an  insertion  on  the  radial  aspect  of  the  proximal  phalanx  of  the  clawed  digits.  This 
transfer  introduces  new  power  from  extensor  muscles  into  the  flexion  action. 

These  innovative  muscle-tendon  transfers  were  designed  for  early  active  use  of 
the  upper  extremity  as  soon  as  possible  after  injury  and  neurorrhaphy  (table  19).  In 
a  great  many  other  patients,  traditional  muscle-tendon  transfers  were  performed. 
Over  a  four-year  period  at  Brooke  General  Hospital,  155  patients  had  multiple  ten¬ 
don  transfers  for  isolated  or  combined  nerve  lesions  of  the  upper  extremity  (tables 
20-26)  (Omer  1974b).  The  team  approach  utilized  at  all  Army  General  Hospitals 
and  most  Army  Station  Hospitals  included  surgeons,  physical  therapists,  occupa¬ 
tional  therapists,  orthotic  and  prosthetic  technicians,  plaster  technicians,  social 
workers,  and  others  interested  in  the  total  rehabilitation  of  the  patient.  The  patient 
was  on  a  ward  near  others  with  similar  injuries.  The  patients  gave  each  other  peer 
support  and  friendly  competition. 


172 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  49. — Schematic  of  extensor  indicis  proprius  transfer  to  provide  thenar  abduc¬ 
tion  and  tension  of  this  transfer  at  the  operating  table. 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


173 


Figure  50. — Tendon  transfer  of  either  the  long  or  ring  FDS  for  thumb  adduction  and 
to  prevent  clawing  of  ring  and  little  fingers.  The  radial  half  of  the  split  tendon  passes 
volar  to  the  adductor  pollicis  but  dorsal  to  the  FDP  and  FDS  tendons  to  insert  near  the 
abductor  tubercle  of  the  proximal  phalanx  of  the  thumb.  The  two  slips  of  the  ulnar  half 
of  the  transferred  tendon  can  go  volar  to  the  intermetacarpal  ligament  to  insert  in  the 
central  slip  of  the  extensor  mechanism  or  to  the  A2  pulley  for  flexion  of  the  MCP  joint, 
which  permits  the  extrinsic  extensor  the  extend  the  interphalangeal  joints. 


174 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Table  19. — Early  tendon  transfers  as  internal  splints  1 


Palsy 

Functional  need 

Motor  muscles 

Low  Median 

Thumb  opposition  (APB) 

Extensor  indicis  proprius 
(or) 

Flexor  digitorum 
superficialis  (ring) 

Palmaris  longus 
(or) 

Extensor  digiti  quinti 

Radial 

Wrist  extension  (ECRB) 

Pronator  teres 

Low  Ulnar 

Thumb  adduction  (AP) 
and 

Finger  clawing  (interosseoi) 

Multi-tailed  flexor  digitorum 
superficialis  (ring) 

(or) 

Extensor  indicis  proprius 
(3rd-4th  metacarpal 
interspace) 

(plus) 

Brachioradialis  (plus  graft) 

1  Omer.  George  E..  Jr.  1983.  The  palsied  hand.  Ch.  16  in  Surgery  of  the  Musculoskeletal  System,  vol.  L.  ed.  C.  McCollister  Evarts,  Lon¬ 
don:  Churchill  Livingstone. 

Table  20. — Median 

nerve  palsy  12-3 

Needed  function 

Preferred  motor 

Alternate  motors 

Index  and  long  finger  flexion 
(FDP — index  and  long) 

Flexor  digitorum  profundus 
tenodesis  in  forearm 

Tenodesis,  flexor  digitorum 
profundus  at  DIP  joint 

Thumb  flexion  (FPL) 
distal  phalanx 

Brachioradialis 

Extensor  Carpi  radialis  longus 

Thumb  abduction  for 
opposition  (APB) 

Extensor  indicis 
propius 

(Low)  (High) 

Palmaris  longus  Extensor  carpi  ulnaris 

(or) 

Extensor  digiti  quinti 
(or) 

Flexor  digitorum 
superficialis  (ring) 

Sensibility  (thumb-index) 

Neurovascular 

cutaneous 
island  pedicle 
from  ring 
finger 

Free  neurovascular  Free  vascularized 

cutaneous  island  nerve  graft 

flap 

1  Omer,  George  E.,  Jr.,  et  al.  1970.  Neurovascular  cutaneous  island  pedicles  for  deficient  median-nerve  sensibility.  J.  Bone  Joint  Sure 
(Am.)  52:1181-1 192. 

-  Omer,  George  E..  Jr.  1968.  Evaluation  and  reconstruction  of  the  forearm  and  hand  after  acute  traumatic  peripheral  nerve  injuries.  J 
Bone  Joint  Surg.  (Am.)  50:1454-1478. 

'  Omer.  George  E..  Jr.  1983.  The  palsied  hand.  Ch.  16  in  Surgery  of  the  Musculoskeletal  System ,  vol.  1 .  ed.  C.  McCollister  Evarts,  Lon¬ 
don:  Churchill  Livingstone. 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


175 


Table  21. — Radial  nerve  palsy  1 


Needed  function 

Preferred  motor 

Alternate  motors 

Wrist  extension  (ECRB) 

Pronator  teres 

Finger  extension  (EDC) 

and  thumb  extension  (EPL) 

Flexor  carpi  ulnaris 
(or) 

Flexor  digitorum  superficialis 
(long  and  ring) 

Palmaris  longus  to  extensor 
pollicis  longus 

Proximal  thumb  stability  (APL) 

Split  insertion — flexor  carpi 
radialis  to  abductor  pollicis 
longus 

(or) 

Palmaris  longus  tenodesis  with 
extensor  pollicis  brevis 

1  Omer,  George  E..  Jr.  1983.  The  palsied  hand.  Ch.  16  in  Surgery  of  the  Musculoskeletal  System,  vol.  1,  ed.  C.  McCollister  Evarts,  Lon¬ 
don:  Churchill  Livingstone. 

Table  22. — Ulnar  nerve  palsy 1 

Needed  function 

Preferred  motor 

Alternate  motors 

Thumb  adduction  (AP) 
key  pinch 

Brachialis  with  free  graft 
between  3rd-4th  metacarpal 
to  abductor  tubercle 

1st  metacarpal 

Direct  insertion,  flexor 
digitorum  superficialis 
(Edgerton/Brand/Goldner) 
(or) 

Split  insertion,  flexor 
digitorum  superficialis 
(or) 

Extensor  indicis  proprius 

Metacarpal-phalangeal  joint 
flexion/interphalangeal  joint 
extension  (integration  of 

MP  and  IP  motion) 

Extensor  carpi  radialis  longus 
(Brand/Burkhalter  to  all 
four  fingers  with  free  graft 
to  either  flexor  sheath  or 
dorsal  apparatus 

Flexor  digitorum  superficialis 
(Stiles/Bunnell) 

(or) 

Flexor  carpi  radialis 

Index  abduction  (first  dorsal 
interosseous) 

Abductor  pollicis  longus  slip 
to  insertion  of  first 
dorsal  interosseous 
(and) 

Arthrodesis,  MP  joint 
of  thumb 

Extensor  pollicis  brevis 
(or) 

Extensor  indicis  proprius 

Finger  flexion  (FDP — ring 
and  little) 

Flexor  digitorum  profundus 
tenodesis 

Tenodesis,  FDP.  at  DIP  joint 

Wrist  flexion  (FCU) 

Flexor  carpi  radialis  to  insertion 
of  flexor  carpi  ulnaris 

Palmaris  longus  to  FCU 
insertion 

Sensibility  (ring — little) 

Free  neurovascular  cutaneous 
island  flap  (in  low  ulnar  palsy) 

Free  vascularized  nerve  graft 
(in  high  ulnar  palsy) 

1  Omer.  George  E.,  Jr.  1983.  The  palsied  hand.  Ch.  16  in  Surgery  of  the  Musculoskeletal  System,  vol.  1.  ed.  C.  McCollister  Evarts.  Lon¬ 
don:  Churchill  Livingstone. 


176 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Table  23. — Combined  low  median-low  ulnar  palsy  12 


Needed  function 

Preferred  motor 

Alternate  motors 

Thumb  adduction  (AP) 

Brachioradialis  with  graft 
between  3rd-4th  metacarps 
to  abductor  tubercle 

1st  metacarpal 

Direct  insertion,  flexor 
digitorum  superficialis 
(Brand/Goldner) 

(or) 

Split  insertion,  flexor 
digitorum  superficialis 

Thumb  opposition  (APB) 

Extensor  indicis  proprius 

Extensor  digiti  quinti 
(or) 

Extensor  carpi  ulnaris 
(or) 

Palmaris  longus 

Metacarpal-phalangeal  joint 
flexion/interphalangeal  joint 
extension  (integration  of 

MP  and  IP  motion) 

Extensor  carpi  radialis  longus 
(four-tailed  graft)  to  either 
flexor  sheath  or  dorsal 
apparatus 

Brachioradialis 

(or) 

Flexor  carpi  radialis 
(or) 

Flexor  digitorum  superficialis 
(Stiles/Bunnell) 

Thumb — index  tip  pinch 
interosseous) 

Abductor  pollicis  longus  slip  to 

1st  dorsal  interosseous  tendon 
(and) 

Arthrodesis  MP  of  thumb 

Extensor  pollicis  brevis 
(and) 

Arthrodesis  MP  of  thumb 

Metacarpal  (palmar)  transverse 
arch,  and  little  finger 
adduction 

Extension  digiti  to  proximal 
phalanx  (extensor  digitorum 
communis  to  little  finger 
must  be  active) 

1  Omer,  George  E..  Jr.  1982.  Combined  nerve  palsies.  In  Green,  D.  P.,  ed.:  Operative  Hand  Surgery,  New  York:  Churchill  Livingstone. 
:  Omer,  George  E..  Jr.  1983.  The  palsied  hand.  In  Evarts,  C.  McCoIlister,  ed.:  Surgery  of  the  Musculoskeletal  System,  vol.  1,  London: 
Churchill  Livingstone. 


Tendon  transfers  may  enhance  the  rehabilitation  of  patients  with  peripheral 
nerve  injuries  and  paralysis  of  the  lower  extremity.  The  successful  tendon  transfer 
should  have  only  one  basic  objective,  such  as  eliminating  a  deforming  force  that  will 
produce  further  imbalance,  replacing  a  single  lost  motion,  or  producing  stability.  In 
contrast  to  the  upper  extremity,  in  the  lower  extremity  stability  against  gravity  is 
much  more  important  than  mobility  and  range  of  motion.  The  best  reconstructive 
procedure  in  many  patients  with  lower  extremity  nerve  loss  was  an  effective  ortho¬ 
sis.  At  Brooke  Army  Medical  Center,  electromyograms  demonstrated  voluntary 
motor  unit  action  potentials  following  tendon  transfer,  but  full  active  dorsiflexion 
was  rarely  restored  even  following  months  of  reeducation. 

Motor  reconstruction  should  be  done  before  and  at  the  same  time  as  sensory  re¬ 
habilitation  in  the  upper  extremity,  because  precise  sensibility  depends  upon  total 
extremity  homeostasis  and  activity  (Omer  1974b).  However,  one  should  not  trans¬ 
fer  any  muscle  that  has  had  a  functional  nerve  deficit. 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


177 


Table  24. — Combined  high  median-high  ulnar  palsy  12 


Needed  function 

Preferred  motor 

Alternate  motors 

Thumb  flexion  (FPL) 

Extensor  indicis  proprius  to 
flexor  pollicis  longus 

Tenodesis  of  FPL  at 

MP  joint 

Finger  flexion  (FDP) 

Extensor  carpi  radialis  longus 

Extensor  carpi  ulnaris 

Thumb  adduction  (AP)  key  pinch 

Extensor  indicis  proprius 

Thumb  opposition  (APB) 

Extensor  digiti  quinti 

Extensor  pollicis  brevis 
(rerouted) 

Thumb  stability 

M-P  arthrodesis 

Metacarpal-phalangeal  joint 
flexion/interphalangeal  joint 
extension  (finger  clawing) 

Extensor  carpi  ulnaris 
(four-tailed  graft) 

Brachioradialis 

(or) 

Parkes’s  tenodesis 
(or) 

Extensor  carpi  radialis  longus 
(or) 

Zancolli  capsulodesis 

Volar  sensibility 

Radial  innervated  finger 
fillet  flap 

1  Omer,  George  E.,  Jr.  1982.  Combined  nerve  palsies.  In  Green,  D.  P„  ed.:  Operative  Hand  Surgery,  New  York:  Churchill  Livingstone. 
3  Omer.  George  E„  Jr.  1983.  The  palsied  hand.  In  Evarts,  C.  McCollister,  ed.:  Surgery  of  the  Musculoskeletal  System,  vol.  1,  London: 
Churchill  Livingstone. 


Table  25. — Combined  high  median-radial  palsy  12 


Needed  function 

Preferred  motor 

Alternate  motors 

Wrist  flexion  extension 

Wrist  arthrodesis 

Index  and  long  finger  flexion 
(FDP— I  &  L) 

Flexor  digitorum  profundus 
tenodesis 

Finger  extension  (EDC)  and 
thumb  extension  (EPL) 

Flexor  carpi  ulnaris 

Thumb  opposition  (APB) 

Abductor  digiti  quinti 

Adductor  pollicis  (abductor 
insertion) 

Thumb  flexion  (FPL) 

I-P  tenodesis 

Thumb  stability  (APL) 

M-P  arthrodesis 

APL  tenodesis 

Sensibility  (thumb-index) 

Neurovascular  cutaneous  island 
pedicle  from  ring  finger 

1  Omer  George  E  Jr.  1982  Combined  nerve  palsies.  In  Green,  D.  P„  ed.:  Operative  Hand  Surgery.  New  York:  Churchill  Livingstone. 

2  Omer!  George  E.’,  Jr.  1983.  The  palsied  hand.  In  Evarts,  C.  McCollister,  ed.:  Surgery  of  the  Musculoskeletal  System,  vol.  1,  London: 
Churchill  Livingstone. 


178 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Table  26. — Combined  high  ulnar-radial  palsy  12 


Needed  function 

Preferred  motor 

Alternate  motors 

Wrist  extension  (ECRB) 

Pronator  teres  (yoke  to  ECRL 
and  ECU) 

Wrist  flexion  (FCU) 

Palmaris  longus  (to  FCU 
(insertion)) 

Finger  extension  (EDC)  and 
thumb  extension  (EPL) 

Flexor  digitorum  superficialis 
(long  and  ring) 

Finger  flexion  (EDP — ring 
and  little) 

Flexor  digitorum  profundus 
tenodesis 

Proximal  thumb  stability  (APL) 

Flexor  carpi  radialis 
(yoke  insertion) 

APL  tenodesis 

Thumb  adduction  (AP) 

Flexor  digitorum  superficialis 
(index) 

M-P  arthrodesis 

Metacarpal-phalangeal  joint 
flexion/interphalangeal  joint 
extension  (finger  clawing) 

Parkes’s  tenodesis 

Zancolli  capsuloplasty 

Sensibility  (ring — little) 

Free  neurovascular  cutaneous 
island  flap 

1  Omer,  George  E..  Jr.  1982.  Combined  nerve  palsies.  In  Green.  D.  P..  ed.:  Operative  Hand  Surgery,  New  York:  Churchill  Livingstone. 
Omer,  George  E„  Jr.  1983.  The  palsied  hand.  In  Evarts,  C.  McCollister.  ed.:  Surgery  of  the  Musculoskeletal  System,  vol.  1,  London: 
Churchill  Livingstone. 


Sensory  Function 

Major  contributions  in  the  evaluation  of  sensibility,  sensibility  reeducation,  and 
the  reconstruction  of  sensory  capabilities  were  accomplished  at  Army  Medical  Cen¬ 
ters  during  the  Vietnam  War  (Omer  1968;  Omer  1971;  von  Prince  and  Butler  1970). 
Omer  and  associates  at  the  Brooke  Army  Medical  Center  developed  a  battery  of 
tests  for  sensibility  that  was  based  on  the  work  of  von  Frey,  Weber,  Minor,  Seddon, 
Tinel,  Moberg,  Wynn  Parry,  and  others.  The  test  battery  was  designed  to  evaluate 
spontaneous  recovery  of  regenerating  nerves  in  the  upper  extremity,  and  more  than 
26,900  individual  tests  were  performed  between  1966  and  1970  at  the  Brooke  Army 
Medical  Center  (Omer  1980).  The  minimum  test  battery  included: 

— Light  touch  two-point  discrimination  distance  or  light  touch  recognition  of 
calibrated  von  Frey  monofilaments  (fig.  51). 

— Tinel  s  percussion  test,  utilizing  a  tuning  fork  (40  Hz)  for  consistent  percussion. 

— Dye  tests,  such  as  cobalt-chloride,  for  gross  evaluation  of  sweating  as  the  indi¬ 
cator  for  sudomotor  activity. 

— Electromyography. 

Voluntary  muscle  contraction  test  on  Highet's  scale  with  measured  arc  of  motion. 

— Gross  hand  grip  in  pounds. 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


179 


Figure  51. — Application  of  von  Frey  monofilament  to  digit.  The  digit  should  be  stable, 
and  the  appropriate  pressure  of  application  is  demonstrated. 


— Tip  and  key  finger  pinch  in  pounds. 

— Object  recognition  tests. 

— Timed  pick-up  test  utilizing  nine  objects. 

This  test  battery  was  utilized,  with  modifications,  at  all  Army  Medical  Centers 
by  the  end  of  the  Vietnam  War.  The  occupational  therapists  and  physical  therapists, 
who  did  most  of  the  tedious  work,  would  transfer  to  other  hospitals  and  initiate  new 
programs  for  sensibility  evaluation  and  education  (Werner  and  Omer  1970;  Reid 
1977).  Von  Prince  and  Butler  (1970)  developed  the  “normal”  ranges  of  light  touch 
to  deep  pressure  sensibility  as  measured  by  the  von  Frey  hairs;  Werner  and  Omer 
(1970)  outlined  a  technique  for  measuring  sensibility  with  the  two-point  discrimina¬ 
tion  test  and  established  the  timing  of  the  picking-up  test  with  a  standard  number  of 
objects  (Omer  1968). 

Raymond  M.  Curtis,  as  Consultant  in  Hand  Surgery  to  the  Surgeon  General, 
had  an  active  clinical  role  at  Walter  Reed  Army  Medical  Center  and  the  Johns 
Hopkins  University  program.  Curtis  and  associates  developed  programs  for  reedu¬ 
cation  of  sensibility  in  the  hands  (Dellon.  Curtis,  and  Edgerton  1971  and  1974).  The 
pattern  of  sensory  recovery  was  mapped  at  regular  intervals,  using  the  following: 

— Recognition  of  constant  and  moving  touch. 

— Perception  of  vibration  at  30  and  256  Hz  by  tuning  fork. 

— Two-point  discrimination  distance. 


180 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Several  objects  are  used  for  retraining  sensibility: 

— Fingertip  of  normal  hand. 

—Pencil  eraser  or  another  soft  object,  for  early-phase  reeducation. 

—Various  sizes  of  square,  hexagonal,  and  round  objects,  such  as  nuts  and  washers. 

— Keys,  coins,  safety  pins,  and  similar  objects  used  in  daily  living,  for  late-phase 
reeducation. 

Early-phase  reeducation  is  begun  over  the  areas  in  which  no  two-point  discrimi¬ 
nation  has  returned,  but  vibration  is  perceived.  The  retraining  objects  can  be  either 
a  pencil  eraser  or  a  fingertip  of  the  normal  hand.  The  patient  attempts  to  perceive 
the  constant  touch  aspect  of  the  object.  A  retraining  session  lasts  10  to  15  minutes 
and  is  done  3  to  5  times  a  day.  The  patient  observes  the  object,  thinks  how  it  feels, 
turns  his  head,  closes  his  eyes,  and  verbalizes  the  sensibility.  Once  the  constant 
touch  is  perceived,  late-phase  reeducation  is  begun.  The  patient  moves  an  object 
back  and  forth  between  the  thumb  and  fingers  in  the  normal  hand,  shifts  the  object 
to  the  injured  hand,  and  attempts  to  identify  the  object  with  his  eyes  opened  and 
then  closed.  The  improvement  in  two-point  discrimination  has  remained  intact  over 
several  years  (Reid  1977).  Reeducation  concepts  were  taken  by  Curtis’  military  Fel¬ 
lows  in  Hand  Surgery  to  all  Army  Medical  Centers,  where  the  techniques  were  in 
use  during  the  Vietnam  War. 

Surgical  procedures  to  restore  sensibility  following  irreparable  nerve  damage 
concentrated  on  replacing  precise  prehension  in  upper  extremity.  The  neurovas¬ 
cular  island  flap  was  utilized  to  transfer  full-thickness  skin  and  subcutaneous  tis¬ 
sue  with  an  intact  nerve  supply.  The  operation  should  be  done  after  indicated 
tendon  transfers  have  been  accomplished  and  the  patient  has  supply  tissues  with 
an  established  range  of  motion  for  the  involved  extremity.  Omer  and  associates 
(1970)  reported  a  series  of  15  patients  with  high  median  palsy  treated  with  neu¬ 
rovascular  cutaneous  island  pedicle  flaps.  They  emphasized  that  sensibility  will 
diminish  unless  there  is  normal  motor  activity  for  precise  prehension.  The 
Brooke  Army  Medical  Center  team  described  a  double  cutaneous  island  from 
the  ring  and  little  finger  on  a  common  digital  artery-nerve  pedicle  that  provided 
precise  sensibility  to  the  volar  aspect  of  the  thumb  and  thumb-index  web  (fig. 
52)  (Omer  et  al.  1970).  Patients  with  high  median  palsy  and  high  ulnar  palsy  lost 
all  capacity  for  precise  prehension.  In  these  patients,  Omer  (1974b)  filleted  the 
index  ray  through  the  proximal  second  metacarpal.  The  insensitive  skin  distal  to 
the  level  of  the  proximal  phalanx  of  the  index  finger  is  discarded.  The  insensitive 
palmar  skin  proximal  to  the  index  and  long  fingers  is  excised.  The  filleted  index 
finger  dorsal  palmar  flap  is  then  fitted  into  the  palmar  defect  to  provide  sensa¬ 
tion  through  the  superficial  radial  nerve. 

Prosthetic  devices  for  patients  with  sciatic  palsy  were  carefully  padded  to  re¬ 
lieve  the  sole  of  the  foot  from  excessive  pressure.  Well  protected  feet  did  not  de¬ 
velop  ulceration  under  supervised  ambulation.  Special  shoes  were  developed  to 
avoid  localized  pressure.  Amputation  is  not  indicated  in  any  traumatic  nerve 
palsy  in  the  lower  extremity  unless  there  is  chronic  and  severe  secondary  ulcera¬ 
tion  and  infection. 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


181 


Figure  52. — Demonstration  of  the  double  neuro-vascular  cutaneous  island  from  the 
ring-little  web  space  to  innervate  the  thumb-index  web  space.  Neuro-vascular  cuta¬ 
neous  island  transfer  in  place.  The  two  cutaneous  excisions  were  from  the  same  pattern, 
so  that  no  additional  skin  is  needed.  The  ring-little  web  space  no  longer  has  sensation. 


182 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


LONG-TERM  FOLLOW-UP  OF  COMBAT-INCURRED 
PERIPHERAL  NERVE  INJURIES  AT  FITZSIMONS 
ARMY  MEDICAL  CENTER 


Colonel  William  W.  Eversmann,  Jr.,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 

A  long-term  follow-up  study  of  combat-incurred  peripheral  nerve  injuries  was 
begun  at  Fitzsimons  Army  Medical  Center  in  1967  by  Brown  and  continued  by 
Burkhalter  and  Eversmann  until  its  termination  in  1983.  Patients  who  had  incurred 
traumatic  peripheral  nerve  injuries  either  in  the  Republic  of  Vietnam  or  within  the 
local  community  were  registered  in  this  comprehensive  study  to  evaluate  the  long¬ 
term  results  of  their  treatment  at  Fitzsimons.  Over  85  percent  of  these  patients  had 
sustained  combat-incurred  injuries  to  peripheral  nerves  during  their  duty  in  the  Re¬ 
public  of  Vietnam  and  had  required  initial  treatment  either  in  the  Republic  of  Viet¬ 
nam  or  before  arriving  at  Fitzsimons  and  often  both.  At  Fitzsimons,  all  had  required 
additional  surgical  treatment  involving  nerve  exploration,  which  was  in  most  cases 
combined  with  neurolysis,  nerve  suture,  free  nerve  graft,  or  pedicle  nerve  graft  in  an 
attempt  to  restore  some  neurological  function. 

Following  surgical  treatment,  patients  were  followed  at  Fitzsimons  Army  Medical 
Center  as  long  as  was  feasible.  If  and  when  the  patient  left  the  immediate  area  of  Den¬ 
ver,  Colorado,  follow-up  was  continued  through  a  questionnaire.  A  standard  set  of 
questions  was  developed  for  each  level  and  type  of  nerve  injury  in  an  attempt  to  evalu¬ 
ate  the  patient’s  functional  capability  and  neurological  result  following  surgery.  A  file 
of  current  addresses  was  maintained  with  the  help  of  the  Disability  Services  for  Re¬ 
tired  Military  Members  and  the  Veterans  Administration  so  that  the  questionnaire 
could  be  sent  to  these  patients  to  survey  their  progress  three  to  four  times  a  year. 

Whenever  possible,  the  patients  in  this  study  were  invited  to  return  to  Fitzsi¬ 
mons  Army  Medical  Center  for  detailed  follow-up  evaluation.  But  they  repre¬ 
sented  a  highly  mobile  population  of  young  individuals,  and  relatively  few  were 
able  to  do  so.  Because  of  the  method  of  follow-up  on  many  long-term  patients,  a 
detailed  quantitative  sensory  and  motor  assessment  of  their  condition  throughout 
the  entire  period  of  the  study  was  not  always  possible,  and  a  statistically  significant 
evaluation  of  these  nerve  injuries  cannot  be  formed.  Nevertheless,  through  the 
study  of  the  available  records,  including  hospital  summaries,  detailed  medical  eval¬ 
uations  of  the  affected  extremities,  questionnaires,  and,  whenever  possible,  detailed 
long-term  follow-up  examinations,  some  information  on  the  long-term  results  of 
combat-incurred  peripheral  nerve  injuries  can  be  provided.  And  certain  principles 
of  treatment  that  were  followed  throughout  the  study  can  be  evaluated  by  means  of 
the  patient’s  responses  to  the  questionnaire  and  the  follow-up  examination  of  those 
patients  who  were  geographically  available. 

Contained  within  this  study  group  are  a  total  of  681  patients.  Among  them,  198 
had  injuries  to  the  ulnar  nerve.  An  additional  151  suffered  damage  to  the  median 
nerve.  The  radial  nerve  was  injured  in  39.  One  or  more  digital  nerves  were  involved 
in  93  patients,  and  the  brachial  plexus  in  17.  One  hundred  thirty-two  patients  had 
injuries  to  major  peripheral  nerves  of  the  lower  extremity,  either  the  sciatic  nerve, 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


183 


the  posterior  tibial  nerve,  or  the  peroneal  nerve,  and  51  had  multiple  nerve  injuries 
in  either  the  upper  or  lower  extremity,  or  a  combination  thereof. 

The  following  information  can  be  gleaned  from  this  series:  Whether  external  on 
the  peripheral  nerve,  internal  using  microscopic  dissection  of  the  fascicular  struc¬ 
ture,  or  used  following  saline  injection  of  the  epineurium  and  epineurotomy,  neu¬ 
rolysis  procedures  seem  to  be  generally  successful  where  indicated.  Occasionally,  a 
well-documented,  dramatic  response  of  return  of  function,  including  two-point  dis¬ 
crimination,  was  observed.  This  return  of  function  occurred  after  neurolysis  when 
for  weeks  or  months  before  surgical  exploration  no  gain  of  neurological  function 
had  occurred  in  the  peripheral  nerve  trunk.  In  no  instance  within  these  681  patients 
was  a  postoperative  causalgic  syndrome  created  by  the  neurolysis,  although  it  might 
have  been  present  before  neurolysis  and  recurred  afterwards. 

On  multiple  occasions  throughout  this  study,  attempts  to  integrate  electrodiag¬ 
nosis  into  the  surgical  procedure  in  order  to  identify  intact  fascicular  structure  were 
generally  unsuccessful  except  when  used  to  identify  motor  nerves  during  surgical 
dissection.  Micro-needle  electrodiagnostic  techniques  were  not  employed  in  this  se¬ 
ries,  and  macro-techniques  did  not  seem  to  add  significantly  to  surgical  diagnosis, 
intra-operative  technique,  or  additional  successful  recovery  of  the  peripheral  nerve. 

Approximately  15  percent  of  the  patients  in  this  series  underwent  primary  rather 
than  secondary  repair  of  peripheral  nerves.  Many  of  the  primary  repair  patients  were 
suffering  from  locally  generated  trauma  rather  than  combat  wounds,  a  fact  that  might 
have  been  significant  because  the  injury  in  these  instances  was  often  less  severe.  But 
although  multiple  factors  may  have  contributed  to  the  outcome  in  cases  treated  pri¬ 
marily  with  nerve  suture,  in  general  these  patients  apparently  responded  better  to  pe¬ 
ripheral  nerve  suture  than  did  those  who  underwent  secondary  neurorrhaphy. 

One  method  of  repair  of  peripheral  nerves  that  had  suffered  partial  laceration,  a 
type  of  injury  commonly  found  in  fragment  wounds,  consisted  of  exteriorizing  intact 
fascicular  structure  and  simply  suturing  the  divided  fascicular  structure  in  a  so-called 
loop  or  D-type  of  nerve  suture.  The  intact  fascicles  are  allowed  to  lie  relaxed  in  the  ad¬ 
jacent  tissue  while  the  divided  fascicles  are  sutured  end  to  end  by  fascicular  suture  to 
restore  their  continuity.  The  sutured  fascicles  are  generally  those  that  are  shorter,  and 
thus  the  intact  fascicles  form  a  loop  or  the  rounded  portion  of  a  D.  In  most  patients,  a 
portion  of  the  peripheral  nerve’s  function  is  maintained  or  returns  after  injury,  but  be¬ 
cause  of  division  and  scarring  of  fascicular  tissue  and  the  formation  of  a  modified  neu¬ 
roma  in  continuity,  full  neurological  function  does  not  return.  In  this  series,  this  type  of 
peripheral  nerve  repair  did  not  usually  result  in  loss  of  neurological  function  from  the 
preoperative  state,  but  it  seemed  to  have  no  value  in  restoring  additional  neurological 
function  from  the  preoperative  state.  The  experience  of  these  patients  suggests  that  a 
loop  or  D-type  of  nerve  suture  may  have  no  value  in  the  secondary  treatment  of  pe¬ 
ripheral  nerve  lacerations  that  involve  only  a  portion  of  the  peripheral  nerve. 

In  a  small  number  of  patients,  no  neurological  function  returned  after  an  initial 
secondary  repair  of  the  peripheral  nerve.  Some  then  underwent  a  second  explo¬ 
ration  of  the  peripheral  nerve  and  a  repeat  secondary  neurorrhaphy  of  the  nerve 
after  excision  of  neuroma.  As  a  general  rule,  the  results  of  a  second  nerve  repair 
were  poor,  since  the  nerve  suture  had  to  be  placed  within  a  bed  that  was  often 
poorly  vascularized  with  dense,  deep  scar  about  the  nerve  repair.  Many  patients  did 
not  feel  that  the  results  justified  the  additional  operative  procedure.  One  would 


184 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


have  to  conclude,  therefore,  that  if  initial  nerve  suture  was  unsuccessful  in  restoring 
some  neurological  function,  a  repeated  nerve  suture  with  excision  of  additional 
neuroma  was  of  very  limited  value. 

Throughout  this  study  of  198  injuries  to  the  ulnar  nerve  and  151  to  the  median 
nerve,  the  median  nerve  provided  both  a  higher  incidence  and  a  greater  degree  of 
cold  intolerance  than  either  the  ulnar  or  radial  nerve.  When  present,  cold  intoler¬ 
ance  did  not  decrease  with  time  in  patients  who  were  followed  ten  to  twelve  years 
after  nerve  suture,  a  situation  that  was  particularly  true  in  the  median  nerve.  The 
incidence  of  cold  intolerance  was  more  frequent  with  the  ulnar  nerve  than  the  ra¬ 
dial  nerve,  but  the  number  of  cases  of  radial  nerve  damage  in  the  series  is  small 
compared  to  that  of  ulnar  nerve  damage.  The  incidence  of  cold  intolerance,  there¬ 
fore,  seems  to  be  related  to  the  greater  sensory  function  of  the  nerve  or  to  a  combi¬ 
nation  of  sensory  function  and  vascular  integrity  of  the  peripheral  nerve  segment. 

Heroic  efforts  to  bridge  major  gaps  in  peripheral  nerves  by  mobilization  of  the 
nerve  several  inches  proximally  or  distally  generally  resulted  in  poor  recovery,  pos¬ 
sibly,  in  part,  because  of  a  severely  scarred  surgical  bed  in  which  the  nerve  lay  or, 
conceivably,  because  of  traction  on  the  peripheral  nerve  with  joint  mobilization 
postoperatively.  In  none  of  the  cases  did  mobilization  of  the  joints  of  the  extremity 
in  the  postoperative  period  create  a  reduced  function  in  the  peripheral  nerve  at  the 
time  the  joints  were  mobilized.  No  critical  period  of  mobilization  or  length  of  dis¬ 
section  of  either  the  proximal  or  distal  stump  of  the  peripheral  nerve  could  be  iden¬ 
tified  from  these  data.  A  few  patients,  particularly  those  with  injuries  to  both  nerves 
of  the  forearm,  underwent  pedicle  nerve  grafting  using  the  St.  Clair  Strange  tech¬ 
nique,  in  which,  in  a  series  of  operations,  the  ulnar  nerve  is  used  as  a  pedicle  graft  to 
bridge  a  gap  of  the  median  nerve.  This  approach  created  surprisingly  useful  func¬ 
tion,  function  that  often  seemed  better  than  that  produced  by  free  nerve  grafting  to 
the  median  nerve,  particularly  when  the  nerve  graft  lay  in  a  scarred  bed.  Although 
the  cases  of  both  free  nerve  grafting  and  pedicle  nerve  grafting  were  few,  the  gen¬ 
eral  impression  of  the  cases  treated  by  these  methods  is  that  pedicle  nerve  grafting 
where  appropriate  and  indicated,  using  the  St.  Clair  Strange  technique,  is  to  be  pre¬ 
ferred  over  free  nerve  grafting. 

In  several  well  studied  cases,  repeatedly  documented  by  detailed  physician  ex¬ 
aminations  of  the  hand,  a  return  of  interosseous  muscle  function  and,  thus,  of  in¬ 
trinsic  function  of  the  hand  was  clearly  demonstrated  more  than  two  years  after 
above-elbow  suture  of  the  ulnar  nerve.  The  longest  documented  period  before  re¬ 
turn  was  eight  years  after  nerve  suture.  The  patient  had  been  examined  in  a  de¬ 
tailed  fashion  some  six  years  after  nerve  suture  and  found  to  be  without  intrinsic 
function.  Two  years  later,  however,  he  had  sufficient  return  of  the  intrinsic  function 
of  the  hand  in  the  interosseous  muscles  to  reduce  a  claw  deformity  of  the  fingers  re¬ 
sulting  from  ulnar  paralysis.  At  least  one  patient  with  an  injury  at  the  brachial 
plexus  level  had  a  late  return  of  intrinsic  function  of  the  hand  multiple  years  after 
injury,  although  in  this  case  the  ulnar  nerve  may  not  have  been  divided.  These  well 
documented  late  returns  of  neurological  function  to  the  intrinsic  muscles  of  the 
hand  are  contrary  to  all  results  previously  reported  in  the  medical  literature. 

Because  some  349  patients  in  this  series  had  either  median  or  ulnar  nerve  neu¬ 
ropathy,  a  relatively  large  number  of  patients  had  undergone  intrinsic  transfers  for 
the  abductor  pollicis  brevis  because  of  median  nerve  injury  or  to  relieve  intrinsic 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


185 


palsy  resulting  from  ulnar  neuropathy.  Many  of  these  patients  returned  for  long¬ 
term  follow-up  8  to  12  years  following  their  nerve  suture  and  intrinsic  transfers.  Al¬ 
though  a  multitude  of  tendon  transfer  techniques  were  used  in  these  patients,  a  few 
transfers  were  used  more  commonly  than  others  and  could  be  followed  some  8  to 
12  years  after  the  transfer  had  been  performed. 

The  so-called  opponens  transfer  to  replace  the  abductor  pollicis  brevis  used  ei¬ 
ther  the  flexor  digitorum  superficialis  of  the  ring  finger  routed  with  a  variety  of 
methods  to  perform  opposition  of  the  thumb  and  replace  the  abductor  pollicis  bre¬ 
vis  or  the  extensor  indicis  proprius  routed  around  the  ulnar  border  of  the  wrist, 
after  the  method  of  Burkhalter  (Brown  1969;  Burkhalter  1974;  Omer  1968).  The 
transfer  continued  to  function  satisfactorily  in  patients  seen  in  long-term  follow-up 
and  to  provide  excellent  positioning  of  the  thumb  for  grip  and  grasp.  The  extensor 
indicis  proprius  transfer  apparently  had  no  significant  tendency  to  lose  function  by 
stretching  out,  nor  did  the  flexor  digitorum  superficialis  of  the  ring  finger  transfer 
exhibit  any  apparent  significant  incidence  of  loss  of  extension  of  the  MP  joint  of  the 
thumb  with  long-term  evaluation.  As  performed  by  many  individual  surgeons,  both 
transfers  continued  to  maintain  an  acceptable  and  even  excellent  degree  of  posi¬ 
tioning  function  for  the  thumb. 

Tendon  transfer  to  replace  intrinsic  function  lost  by  ulnar  palsy  could  similarly 
be  followed  for  the  long  term  in  this  study.  The  most  common  transfer  performed 
was  a  power  grip  transfer  using  the  extensor  carpi  radialis  longus  prolonged  with  a 
tendon  graft,  passed  volar  to  the  transverse  metacarpal  ligament,  and  inserted  with 
a  bony  insertion  at  the  proximal  phalanx  (Burkhalter  and  Strait  1973).  Most  pa¬ 
tients  found  that  the  goal  of  the  transfer  had  been  reached  and  that  their  strength  of 
grip  had  been  maintained.  Eight  to  twelve  years  after  nerve  suture  and  tendon 
transfer,  they  continued  to  be  pleased  with  the  transfer  for  power  grip.  A  few  pa¬ 
tients  found  that  they  had  increased  wrist  extension  while,  at  the  same  time,  their 
wrist  flexion  was  limited.  The  limitation  of  wrist  flexion  was  not  troubling,  nor  did 
these  patients  associate  any  functional  deficit  with  the  loss.  No  examined  patient 
who  had  undergone  this  tendon  transfer  had  noted  any  deterioration  of  hand  func¬ 
tion  in  the  several  years  after  the  transfer  had  been  performed. 

Because  of  the  wide  variation  in  tendon-transferring  techniques  for  other  ten¬ 
don  transfers  used  in  these  patients,  it  was  not  possible  to  ascribe  any  other  general¬ 
izations  to  the  long-term  function  of  tendon  transfers. 

SUMMATION 

George  E.  Omer ;  Jr.,  M.D. 

Injuries  of  peripheral  nerves  were  severe  complications  of  the  extremity  wounds 
incurred  in  Vietnam.  Peripheral  nerve  injuries  provided  a  major  stimulus  to  im¬ 
prove  management  of  the  total  extremity.  Army  surgeons  developed  clinical  and 
electrodiagnostic  techniques  to  evaluate  the  extent  of  nerve  involvement  and  the 
potential  for  spontaneous  recovery.  Associated  painful  syndromes  were  aborted 
with  new  anesthetic  techniques  or  managed  with  aggressive  surgery  and  followed 
with  intensive  functional  use. 


186 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


The  disrupted  peripheral  nerve  usually  had  a  delayed  repair  utilizing  surgical 
techniques  antedating  current  magnification,  instruments,  and  suture  materials. 
Approximately  45  percent  of  sutured  nerves  resulted  in  measurable  progressive 
functional  return.  A  few  patients  demonstrated  excellent  peripheral  nerve  regener¬ 
ation,  which  could  be  related  to  the  extent  of  injury,  time  of  nerve  repair,  age  of  the 
patient,  and  surgical  expertise  in  major  medical  centers.  Second  nerve  repairs  and 
free  nerve  grafts  had  disappointing  clinical  results. 

More  than  half  of  the  disrupted  nerves  did  not  regain  clinical  function  and  many 
surgical  procedures  were  developed  that  utilized  tendon  transfers  to  enhance  reha¬ 
bilitation.  The  more  successful  tendon  transfers  involved  the  forearm  and  hand. 
Army  surgeons  made  major  contributions  in  the  evaluation  of  sensibility,  sensibility 
reeducation,  and  the  reconstruction  of  sensory  capabilities.  Through  the  experience 
and  judgment  based  on  large  numbers,  principles  were  developed  for  the  recon¬ 
struction  of  extremities. 


REFERENCES 

Baker,  A.  G.,  and  Winegarner,  F.  G.  1969.  Causalgia,  a  review  of  twenty-eight 
treated  cases.  American  Journal  of  Surgery  117:690-94. 

Brown,  P.  W.  1969.  Ulnar  Intrinsic  Palsy  of  the  hand.  Proceedings  Am.  Soc.  Surg. 
Hand.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg.  51  A:800. 

- .  1970a.  Rehabilitation  of  bilateral  lower  extremity  amputees.  J.  Bone  Joint 

Surg.  52A:687-700. 

- .  1970b.  The  time  factor  in  surgery  of  upper  extremity  peripheral  nerve  in¬ 
jury.  Clin.  Orthop.  68:14-21. 

Burkhalter,  W.  E.  1974.  Early  tendon  transfer  in  upper  extremity  peripheral  nerve 
injury.  Clin.  Orthop.  104:68-79. 

Burkhalter,  W.  E.,  and  Strait  J.  L.  1973.  Metacarpophalangeal  Flexor  replacement 
for  intrinsic-muscle  paralysis.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg.  55A:1667-76. 

Burkhalter,  W.  E.;  Butler,  B.;  Metz,  W.;  and  Omer,  G.  E.,  Jr.  1968.  Experiences  with 
delayed  primary  closure  of  war  wounds  of  the  hand  in  Vietnam.  J.  Bone  Joint 
Surg.  50A:945-54. 

Burkhalter,  W.  E.;  Christensen,  R.  C.;  and  Brown,  P.  W.  1973.  Extensor  indicis  pro- 
prius  opponensplasty.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg.  56A:725-32. 

Bzik,  K.  D.,  and  Bellamy,  R.  F.  1984.  Editorial:  a  note  on  combat  incurred  statistics. 
Military  Medicine  149:229-30. 

Canty,  T.  J.,  and  Bleck,  E.  E.  1958.  Amputation  stump  pain.  U.S.  Armed  Forces 
Medical  Journal  9:635-47. 

CINCPAC-2.  1968.  Commander  in  Chief,  Pacific.  Second  CINCPAC  Conference 
on  War  Surgery.  Tri-service  conference  on  war  surgery  conducted  at  John  Hay 
Air  Base,  Philippines,  25-28  March  1968. 

Dellon,  A.  L.;  Curtis,  R.  M.;  and  Edgerton,  M.  T.  1971.  Reeducation  of  sensation  in 
the  hand  following  nerve  injury.  Proceedings,  Am.  Soc.  Surg.  Hand.  J.  Bone 
Joint  Surg.  53A:813. 

- .  1974.  Reeducation  of  sensation  in  the  hand  after  nerve  injury  and  repair. 

Plast.  Reconstruct.  Surg.  53:297-305. 

Ewalt,  J.  R.;  Randell,  G.  C.;  and  Morris,  H.  1947.  The  phantom  limb.  Psychoso¬ 
matic  Medicine  9:1 18-23. 

Frazier,  S.  H.,  and  Kalb,  L.  C.  1970.  Psychiatric  aspects  of  pain  and  the  phantom 
limb.  Orthop.  Clin.  North  Am.  1:481-95. 


PERIPHERAL  NERVE  PROBLEMS 


187 


Highet,  W.  B.,  and  Sanders,  F.  K.  1943.  The  effects  of  stretching  nerves  after  suture. 
Brit.  J.  Surg.  30:355-69. 

Kline,  D.  G.  1980.  Evaluation  of  the  neuroma  in  continuity.  In  Management  of  pe¬ 
ripheral  nerve  problems ,  eds.  G.  E.  Omer,  Jr.,  and  M.  Spinner,  pp.  450-61. 
Philadelphia:  W.  B.  Saunders,  Co. 

Kline,  D.  G.,  and  DeJong,  B.  R.  1968.  Evoked  potentials  to  evaluate  peripheral 
nerve  injuries.  Surg.  Gynecol.  Obstet.  127:1239-48. 

Lankford,  L.  L.  1980.  Reflex  sympathetic  dystrophy.  In  Management  of  peripheral 
nerve  problems ,  eds.  G.  E.  Omer,  Jr.,  and  M.  Spinner,  pp.  216-44.  Philadelphia: 
W.  B.  Saunders,  Co. 

Lui,  C.  T.;  Benda,  C.  E.;  and  Lewey,  F.  H.  1948.  The  tensile  strength  of  human 
nerves— experimental,  physiologic,  and  histologic  study.  Arch.  Neurol.  Psychiatr. 
59:322-36. 

Omer,  G.  E.,  Jr.  1968.  Evaluation  and  reconstruction  of  the  forearm  and  hand  after 
acute  traumatic  peripheral  nerve  injuries.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg.  50A:  1454-78. 

- .  1971.  Assessment  of  peripheral  nerve  injuries.  In  Symposium  on  the  hand , 

eds.  L.  M.  Cramer  and  R.  A.  Chase.,  Educ.  Found.  Am.  Soc.  Plast.  Reconstr. 
Surg.  vol.  3.  pp.  1-13.  St.  Louis:  C.  V.  Mosby  Co. 

- .  1974a.  Injuries  to  nerves  of  the  upper  extremity.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg. 

56A:1615-24. 

- .  1974b.  Tendon  transfers  in  combined  nerve  lesions.  Orthop.  Clin.  North 

Am.  5:377-87. 

- .  1975.  “Survey  of  peripheral  nerve  injuries  and  management  techniques.” 

Committee  of  the  History  of  Orthopaedic  Surgery  in  Vietnam,  May  14,  1975. 

- .  1976.  Nerve  injuries:  primary  vs.  secondary  suture  vs.  nerve  grafts.  Dallas 

Medical  Journal  62:401-03. 

- .  1980.  Sensory  evaluation  by  the  pick-up  test.  In  Nerve  repair  and  regenera¬ 
tion,  ed.  D.  J.  Jewett  and  H.  Relton  McCarroll,  Jr.  ch.  27,  pp.  250-51.  St.  Louis: 
C.V.  Mosby  Co. 

- .  1981.  Methods  of  assessment  of  injury  and  recovery  of  peripheral  nerves. 

Surg.  Clin.  North  Am.  61:303-19. 

- .  1982.  Results  of  untreated  peripheral  nerve  injuries.  Clin.  Orthop.  163:15-19. 

- .  1984.  Management  techniques  for  chronic  pain  of  the  upper  extremity.  Bull. 

Hosp.  J.  Dis.  44:381-405. 

Omer,  G.  E.,  Jr.,  and  Seymour,  D.  W.  1969.  “A  year  of  trauma  at  the  Brooke  Army 
Medical  Center — 1968.”  Presented  at  the  Society  of  Military  Orthopedic  Sur¬ 
geons,  1969,  and  U.S.  Medicine,  November  1, 1969,  p.  9. 

Omer,  G.  E.,  Jr.;  Day,  D.  J.;  Ratliff,  H.;  and  Lambert,  P.  1970.  Neurovascular  cuta¬ 
neous  island  pedicles  for  deficient  median-nerve  sensibility.  J.  Bone  Joint  Surg. 
52A:1 181-92. 

Omer,  G.  E.,  Jr.,  and  Thomas,  S.  R.  1971.  Treatment  of  causalgia:  review  of  cases  at 
Brooke  General  Hospital.  Texas  Medicine.  67:93-96. 

- .  1972.  Peripheral  periodic  infusion  sympathectomy  for  the  treatment  of 

causalgia.  Proceedings  of  the  American  Society  for  Surgery  of  the  Hand.  J. 
Bone  Joint  Surg.  54A:898-99. 

Omer,  G.  E.,  Jr.,  and  Thomas,  S.  T.  1974.  The  management  of  chronic  pain  syn¬ 
dromes  in  the  upper  extremity.  Clin.  Orthop.  104:37-45. 

Rakolta,  G.  G.,  and  Omer,  G.  E„  Jr.  1969.  Combat-sustained  femoral  nerve  injuries. 
Surg.  Gynecol.  Obstet.  128:813-17. 

Reid,  R.  L.  1977.  Preliminary  results  of  sensibility  reeduction  following  repair  of 
the  median  nerve.  Am.  Soc.  Surg.  Hand  Newsletter  15. 


188 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Rich,  N.  M.,  and  Spencer,  F.  C.  1978.  Vascular  trauma,  pp.  125-55.  Philadelphia:  W. 
B.  Saunders,  Co. 

Rothberg,  J.  M.;  Tahmoush,  A.  J.;  and  Oldakowski,  R.  1983.  The  epidemiology  of 
causalgia  among  soldiers  wounded  in  Vietnam.  Military  Medicine.  148:347-50. 

Sunderland,  S.  1972.  Nerve  and  nerve  injuries,  pp.  785,  837,  923,  1075.  Edinburgh: 
Churchill  Livingston. 

Von  Prince,  K.,  and  Butler,  B.,  Jr.  1967.  Measuring  sensory  function  of  the  hand  in 
peripheral  nerve  injuries.  Am.  J.  Occup.  Ther.  21:385-95. 

Werner,  J.  L.,  and  Omer,  G.  E.,  Jr.  1970.  Procedures  evaluating  cutaneous  pressure 
sensation  of  the  hand.  Am. ./.  Occup.  Ther.  24:347-56. 

White,  J.  C.,  and  Sweet,  W.  H.  1969.  Pain  and  the  neurosurgeon:  a  forty  year  experi¬ 
ence.  Springfield,  Ill.:  Charles  C.  Thomas. 

Woodhall,  B.,  and  Beebe,  G.  W.,  eds.  1956.  Peripheral  nerve  regeneration.  VA  Med¬ 
ical  Monograph,  pp.  5,  191,  311-40,  498.  Washington:  GPO. 

Associated  References 

Omer,  G.  E.,  Jr.  1990.  War  injuries  of  the  hand.  In  Tubiana,  R.,  ed..  The  Hand.  vol.  3, 
ch.  82,  pp.  903-24.  Philadelphia:  W.  B.  Saunders. 

- .  1991.  Nerve  injuries  associated  with  gunshot  wounds  of  the  extremities.  In 

Gelberman,  R.  H.,  ed.,  Operative  nerve  repair  and  reconstruction,  vol.  1,  ch.  45, 
pp.  655-70.  Philadelphia:  Lippincott. 


9 


Rehabilitation  of  the 
Combat-Wounded  Amputee 

Colonel  Paul  W.  Brown ,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 

As  an  enlisted  soldier  in  combat  in  World  War  II,  I  first  learned  how  essential  mo¬ 
tivation  is  to  the  individuals  survival — and  to  his  sanity.  As  a  young  medical  officer 
during  the  Korean  War,  I  began  to  wonder  why  some  severely  wounded  men  recov¬ 
ered  so  well,  while  others  with  the  same  or  lesser  injuries  did  not.  The  patient’s  attitude 
about  healing  and  recovery  seemed  to  have  as  much  influence  on  his  hospital  course  as 
any  of  the  treatments  administered.  During  the  subsequent  decade  of  peacetime  or¬ 
thopedic  practice,  I  observed  over  and  over  that  the  patient's  motivation,  regardless  of 
the  severity  or  nature  of  his  ailment,  could  direct  the  course  of  recovery  and  even 
make  the  difference  between  healing  and  permanent  disability.  With  the  Vietnam  War 
came  my  opportunity,  as  a  senior  military  orthopedist,  to  apply  what  experience  had 
taught  me  about  the  rehabilitation  of  combat-wounded  amputees. 

This  chapter  on  rehabilitation  is  as  much  philosophical  as  historical.  While  it 
shows  how  ideas  about  using  patient  motivation  as  a  rehabilitative  device  were  de¬ 
veloped  and  applied  to  Vietnam  casualties  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  in  Den¬ 
ver,  Colorado,  it  also  inevitably  spills  over  into  matters  political,  sociological,  and 
emotional.  It  falls  short  of  completely  defining  the  goals  and  limits  of  early  rehabil¬ 
itation  of  the  severely  wounded  soldiers  because  it  is  limited  to  the  story  of  some  of 
these  soldiers  in  one  hospital  during  a  portion  of  one  war.  Nevertheless,  perhaps 
from  their  experiences  can  be  learned  some  lessons  useful  for  the  future. 


HISTORICAL  BACKGROUND 

When  the  number  of  beds  and  physicians  is  limited  and  the  influx  of  acutely 
wounded  constant,  transfers  become  inevitable  once  a  hospital  is  full.  During 
World  War  II,  the  accepted  approach  to  this  problem  was  to  treat  the  seriously 
wounded  casualty  in  a  military  hospital  up  to  a  certain  point  and  then  either  to 
transfer  him  to  a  veterans’  hospital  or  to  discharge  him  to  civilian  life.  Thus,  if  the 
casualty  had  not  obtained  “maximum  hospital  benefits”  within  a  certain  period,  the 
length  of  which  fluctuated  according  to  the  pressure  for  hospital  beds,  he  was  trans¬ 
ferred  to  a  “long-term  care  facility,”  generally  a  veterans’  hospital.  An  arbitrary  pe¬ 
riod  of  time  rather  than  the  degree  of  recovery  was  the  determining  factor  in  the 
decision  to  discharge  or  transfer  a  patient.  This  approach,  which  reserved  military 
hospital  beds  for  more  acute  rather  than  protracted  care,  was,  from  the  administra¬ 
tive  viewpoint,  both  useful  and  practical.  But  it  could  adversely  affect  rehabilita¬ 
tion,  and  its  effectiveness  from  an  overall  medical  point  of  view  was  debatable. 


190 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


In  the  five  years  after  World  War  II  and  before  the  outbreak  of  the  Korean  War, 
the  field  of  rehabilitative  medicine  progressed  to  the  point  of  achieving  some  re¬ 
spectable  status  as  a  medical  specialty.  But  most  physiatric  methods  applied  to  the 
Korean  War  casualty  were  devoted  to  kinesiology,  gait  patterns,  and  occupational 
therapy,  with  only  rudimentary  attempts  at  vocational  rehabilitation.  Although  a 
definite  advance,  these  rehabilitation  efforts  tended  to  fragment  patient  care.  Phys¬ 
ical  medicine  was  administered  to  the  patient  in  special  departments  and  areas,  and 
the  ward  surgeons  and  nurses  were,  to  a  degree,  excluded  from  the  process.  In  some 
military  hospitals — Letterman  General  Hospital  in  San  Francisco  for  one — a  good 
deal  of  jockeying  for  control  of  the  patient  developed  among  the  chiefs  of  the  de¬ 
partments  of  physical  medicine  and  the  various  surgical  services. 

During  the  Korean  War,  the  number  of  casualties  was  considerably  lower  than 
in  World  War  II,  but  fewer  military  hospital  beds  and  physicians  were  available  for 
them.  When  a  return  to  duty  or  discharge  to  civilian  life  could  not  be  effected 
within  a  prescribed  time,  the  pressure  to  transfer  patients  to  veterans'  hospitals  was 
even  greater  than  it  had  been  during  World  War  II.  By  the  early  1950s  more  Veter¬ 
ans  Administration  hospitals  were  in  operation  than  at  the  end  of  World  War  II. 
And  the  prescribed  time  before  transfer  was  even  shorter  than  it  had  been  in  World 
War  II,  since  using  the  new  Veterans  Administration  hospitals  seemed  politically 
and  fiscally  sounder  than  enlarging  existing  military  hospitals. 

In  both  World  War  II  and  the  Korean  conflict,  the  government  management  of 
the  amputees  was  direct  and  simplistic.  During  the  time  period  allowed  for  hospi¬ 
talization  in  Army  facilities,  the  amputation  was  to  be  completed,  the  stump  healed 
and  fitted  with  a  prosthesis,  and  the  amputee  shown  the  rudiments  of  gait  before  his 
discharge  to  civilian  life  with  some  type  of  disability  award.  If  the  stump  could  not 
be  healed  or  fitted  within  a  “reasonable”  time,  the  amputee  was  transferred  to  a 
veterans’  hospital.  This  uncomplicated  approach  made  sense  militarily.  Because  it 
was  standardized  and  uniform,  it  also  permitted  the  political  system  to  disentangle 
itself  quickly  from  uncomfortable  reminders  of  the  price  of  war. 

But  most  medical  officers  during  World  War  II  and  the  Korean  War  were  frus¬ 
trated  by  the  fact  that  they  could  contribute  only  a  small  bit  to  the  patient’s  recov¬ 
ery  before  they  were  required  to  ship  him  out  to  another  installation.  Although  tac¬ 
tical  and  logistical  considerations  had  rendered  this  approach  to  patient  care 
unavoidable  for  most  overseas  hospitals,  every  physician  in  the  chain  of  evacuation 
felt  that  he  had  done  an  incomplete  job  for  the  individual  patient.  The  surgeon's 
frustrations  were  compounded  by  the  knowledge  that  he  would  rarely  ever  learn  of 
the  ultimate  outcome  of  his  cases. 

During  the  period  from  the  end  of  the  Korean  War  until  the  casualties  from 
Vietnam  first  reached  embarrassing  numbers — roughly  from  1953  until  1967 — the 
specialty  of  rehabilitation  medicine  began  to  mature.  Leaders  and  innovators  in  the 
tield  were  asking  the  question,  “Where  does  treatment  cease  and  rehabilitation 
start?”  The  true  significance  of  this  basically  rhetorical  question  lay  in  the  implica¬ 
tion  that  treatment  and  rehabilitation  were  indistinguishable  parts  of  one  another 
and  should  not  be  considered  separately.  In  other  words,  rehabilitation  should  start 
immediately  as  a  part  of  the  therapeutic  endeavor. 


REHABILITATION  OF  THE  COMBAT-WOUNDED  AMPUTEE 


191 


EVACUATION  POLICIES  AND  THE  PATIENT 
IN  THE  VIETNAM  WAR 

The  growing  conviction  that  rehabilitation  could  not  be  separated  from  treat¬ 
ment  increased  concern  about  evacuation  policies  that  moved  the  patient  from  fa¬ 
cility  to  facility,  undermining  the  continuity  of  care  that  was  increasingly  seen  as 
vital  to  prompt,  successful  rehabilitation.  Furthermore,  a  transient  commitment  to 
the  patient,  the  normal  consequence  of  a  lack  of  continuity  of  care,  quite  naturally 
fostered  a  depersonalization  of  the  patient-doctor  contact,  a  situation  that  frus¬ 
trated  the  physician  intellectually  and  sometimes,  because  of  his  compassionate 
concern,  emotionally.  The  patient,  however,  experienced  more  than  mere  frustra¬ 
tion;  he  inevitably  felt  afraid  and  abandoned.  With  each  move  to  a  new  hospital 
scene,  he  became  more  reluctant  to  commit  himself  fully  to  a  new  doctor-patient  re¬ 
lationship.  No  sooner  was  he  familiar  with  a  team  of  physicians  and  nurses  and  a 
hospital  environment  than  the  whole  scene  and  all  the  characters  in  it  (save  the 
principal  one — the  patient)  were  changed  to  another.  In  the  course  of  this  change 
the  patient  was  categorized  and  often  referred  to  by  the  nature  of  his  injury,  not  as 
an  individual;  he  was  labeled  a  “fracture,  compound,  comminuted  of  the  femur” 
rather  than  “John  Smith,  who  has  a  fractured  femur.”  In  the  initial  phases  of  treat¬ 
ment,  early  in  the  chain  of  evacuation,  he  could  handle  this  well  enough,  but  with 
each  successive  change,  the  trauma  increased.  The  patient  saw  quite  well  that  each 
move  delayed  his  recovery  rather  than  expedited  it,  and  he  felt  strongly  that  he  was 
a  pawn  in  a  system.  The  threat  of  another  move  depressed  motivation;  it  tended  to 
make  patients  more  passive  in  their  own  rehabilitation.  Moreover,  the  shifting 
around  often  created  an  attitude  of  skepticism  and  cynicism  about  their  govern¬ 
ment's  concern  for  them,  since  multiple  transfers  were  obviously  for  the  benefit  not 
of  the  patient  but  of  the  administrative  process. 

Holding  and  treating  patients  for  a  month  or  more  in  hospitals  in  Japan  in  the 
course  of  their  evacuation  from  Vietnam  probably  made  a  good  deal  of  economic 
sense  in  terms  of  utilization  of  our  facilities  in  Japan.  It  may  also  have  simplified 
transportation  problems,  but  it  most  definitely  interfered  with  the  continuity  of 
care  of  the  patient.  Although  these  hospitals  provided  excellent  and  devoted  care, 
some  of  the  benefit  of  the  early  and  effective  rehabilitation  measures  usually 
started  there  was  negated  by  the  interruption  of  the  process  resulting  from  evacua¬ 
tion  to  the  United  States  and  exposure  to  a  new  medical  scene.  For  many,  therefore, 
the  care  was  neither  continuous  nor  orderly  but  fragmented  and  frequently 
changed.  Ideally,  injuries  permitting,  the  patient  should  be  evacuated  as  rapidly  and 
as  safely  as  possible  to  a  general  hospital  in  the  United  States  and  kept  there 
throughout  all  of  his  remaining  treatment  and  rehabilitation. 

In  spite  of  the  recognized  disadvantages  that  resulted  from  the  evacuation  poli¬ 
cies  followed  in  the  early  years  of  the  war,  the  most  profound  change  in  evacuation 
policies  during  the  Vietnam  War  came  only  as  a  result  oi  the  Tet  olfensive  ot  Febru¬ 
ary  1968.  The  sudden  influx  of  large  numbers  of  casualties  forced  the  abandonment 
of  the  policy  that  had  permitted  casualties  from  Vietnam  to  spend  weeks  to  months 
in  hospitals  in  Vietnam,  in  the  Philippines,  or  in  Japan  before  their  evacuation  to  the 
United  States.  Hospitals  in  Southeast  Asia  and  Japan  were  quickly  filled,  making  it 
necessary  to  send  patients  directly  from  Vietnam  to  the  United  States,  where  a  much 


192 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


higher  proportion  of  patients  with  open  wounds,  open  stumps,  and  fresh,  unhealed 
fractures  were  being  received.  As  a  result,  in  less  than  a  year  the  orthopedic  census 
at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  more  than  tripled  to  over  900  patients. 

Early  evacuation  of  patients  had  its  drawbacks,  however.  Some  were  rushed 
into  the  evacuation  chain  before  their  medical  condition  could  safely  permit  the  ex¬ 
tended  trip.  Occasionally,  patients  were  damaged,  and  some  experienced  severe 
discomfort  that  might  have  been  avoided  had  their  evacuation  been  deferred  for 
even  a  few  days.  The  most  serious  complications  were  seen  in  those  with  respira¬ 
tory  difficulties  or  blood  loss  problems.  Overall,  however,  considering  the  great 
pressure  for  acute  care  beds  in  Vietnam,  screening  for  early  evacuation  was  han¬ 
dled  efficiently  and  compassionately. 

As  the  numbers  and  ratios  of  these  “early  evacuees”  increased,  so,  too,  did  the 
impression  that  their  rehabilitation  progressed  both  more  smoothly  and  more 
rapidly  than  that  of  evacuees  retained  longer  in  Southeast  Asia.  The  soldier  who  ar¬ 
rived  in  the  United  States  only  a  week  or  two  after  wounding  was  treated  by  one 
team  throughout  most  of  his  healing  process  without  the  multiple  and  sometimes 
prolonged  interruptions  imposed  by  transfer  to  other  hospitals.  The  question  was 
not  quality  of  care — the  caliber  of  orthopedic  treatment  in  overseas  hospitals  was 
equal  to  that  in  the  United  States — but  consistency  of  care,  since  philosophies  and 
methods  differed  from  one  hospital  staff  to  another.  The  patient  who  started  his 
healing  process  under  one  system  and  was  then  transferred  to  another  had  to  shift 
gears;  momentum,  enthusiasm,  and  motivation  were  lost,  irrespective  of  the  rela¬ 
tive  merits  of  the  different  systems. 

CARE  IN  CONUS  HOSPITALS 

The  mission  of  the  general  hospital  in  the  United  States  was  never  clearly  de¬ 
fined  in  terms  of  medical  responsibility  to  the  Vietnam  casualty.  A  certain  amount 
of  planning  and  administrative  effort  was  put  into  transforming  general  hospitals 
into  “specialized  treatment  centers,”  which  concentrated  on  particular  types  of 
wounds  and  to  which  orthopedic  surgeons  with  known  competence  in  the  relevant 
fields  were  then  assigned.  The  concept  was  sound  but  was  never  applied  effectively 
beyond  the  assignment  of  one  or  two  appropriately  trained  surgeons  to  each  center. 
Generally,  further  support,  either  by  assigning  ancillary  personnel  or  by  providing 
special  equipment  or  facilities,  was  never  given.  As  a  result,  these  centers  were  suc¬ 
cessful  in  direct  proportion  to  their  chiefs’  abilities  to  innovate,  to  scrounge  equip¬ 
ment,  and  to  hijack  needed  specialist  personnel  from  other  assignments.  The  efforts 
expended  to  make  these  centers  effective  detracted  significantly  from  energies  that 
would  have  been  better  applied  to  their  primary  mission. 

The  appropriateness  of  continuing  orthopedic  and  surgical  residencies  at  named 
general  hospitals  throughout  the  war  was  a  topic  frequently  and  heatedly  debated 
among  the  chiefs  of  these  programs.  The  experience  in  wound  management  and  re¬ 
constructive  surgery  that  young  surgeons  received  in  caring  for  Vietnam  wounded 
greatly  enriched  their  training  programs  and  attracted  many  capable  young  medical 
officers  who  might  otherwise  never  have  been  recruited  or  retained  in  the  Medical 
Corps.  But  residency  training  requirements  in  the  form  of  children’s  orthopedic 


REHABILITATION  OF  THE  COMBAT-WOUNDED  AMPUTEE 


193 


training,  basic  science  studies,  and  numerous  teaching  sessions  took  the  resident 
away  from  pressing  duties  involving  care  of  the  combat  casualty.  Despite  the  resi¬ 
dency  problems,  the  overall  gain  for  the  Army  and  for  the  individual  patient  was 
great  enough  to  justify  continuation  of  the  residencies. 

The  patient  was  not  assured  of  continuity  of  care  even  after  he  arrived  back  in 
the  United  States.  The  length  of  hospitalization  and  the  “maximum  medical  bene¬ 
fits"  of  the  individual  casualty  fluctuated  according  to  administrative  policy,  whim, 
physical  considerations,  staffing  patterns,  and  bed  availability.  The  doctrines  of 
World  War  II  and  Korea  might  be  applied:  if  a  patient  could  not  be  “made  well” 
within  a  specific  period  of  time,  his  treatment  should  be  interrupted  and  he  should 
be  separated  from  the  service  and  transferred  to  a  Veterans  Administration  hospi¬ 
tal.  When  these  general  policies  were  indiscriminately  applied  to  individual  pa¬ 
tients,  both  continuity  and  quality  of  care  usually  suffered.  Some  felt  expendable, 
abandoned,  or  culled,  probably  with  reason. 

Fortunately,  most  general  hospital  commanders  were  physicians  before  they 
were  commanders.  As  a  result,  they  had  the  motivation  and  courage  to  resist  or 
subvert  policies  that  threatened  detriment  to  their  patients.  Many  medical  officers 
and  hospital  commanders  found  ways  to  delay  transfer  of  patients  to  Veterans  Ad¬ 
ministration  hospitals  until  they  had  finished  their  treatment  and  rehabilitation. 
Only  after  hospital  beds  became  scarce  did  The  Surgeon  General’s  Office  begin 
pushing  these  officers  to  have  patients  with  an  anticipated  prolonged  hospital  stay 
discharged  from  the  military  and  into  a  veterans’  hospital. 

The  Veterans  Administration  hospital  chosen  for  the  casualty  was  often  the  one 
closest  to  his  home,  which  was  not  necessarily  the  facility  best  equipped  to  care  for 
him.  Ironically,  many  wounded  soldiers  were  sent  to  veterans'  hospitals  with  no  ca¬ 
pability  for  managing  their  particular  treatment  or  rehabilitative  needs  just  when 
The  Surgeon  General  was  promoting  the  doctrine  of  the  “whole  man”  approach  to 
medical  practice  and  the  assessment  of  disability.  A  sound  concept,  it  was  generally 
overridden  by  administrative  priorities  when  military  hospital  beds  were  scarce  and 
was  more  assiduously  applied  to  the  attainment  of  disability  ratings  for  retiring  per¬ 
sonnel  than  in  treating  the  war  wounded. 

Increasing  the  pressure  upon  physicians  dealing  with  Vietnam  casualties  in 
CONUS  hospitals  was  the  grim  fact  that  many  casualties  who  would  not  have  sur¬ 
vived  their  wounds  in  previous  wars  were  now  reaching  the  United  States  alive. 
Their  survival,  the  result  of  using  improved  medical  techniques,  helicopter  evacua¬ 
tion,  and  antibiotics,  brought  hospitals  a  proportionately  higher  number  of  bilateral 
amputees  and  men  with  massive  combined  injuries  than  any  other  conflict.  These 
patients  would  experience  a  protracted  hospitalization  and  significantly  greater  re¬ 
habilitative  problems.  Although  the  public  conscience — and  the  consciences  of  the 
physicians  caring  for  Vietnam  casualties — could  quite  easily  cope  with  the  occa¬ 
sional  mangled  soldier,  as  the  numbers  of  these  patients  grew  and  facilities  and 
staffing  became  more  strained,  attention  was  focused  more  sharply  on  their  re¬ 
quirements.  When  the  war  in  Vietnam  began  to  heat  up  in  1966  and  1967  and  ever 
greater  numbers  of  casualties  reached  the  United  States,  public  discomfort  grew, 
and  physicians  increasingly  challenged  the  quality  of  their  approach  to  their  prob¬ 
lems.  Orthopedic  surgeons  involved  in  the  care  of  Vietnam  wounded  in  CONUS 
hospitals  also  wondered  whether  purely  fiscal  and  economic  considerations  were 


194 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


dictating  too  much  of  the  hospitalization  policy  within  the  United  States.  Only  a 
few  surgeons  became  political  activists — to  the  detriment  of  their  professional  obli¬ 
gations — and  only  a  few  narrowly  defined  their  medical  commitment  to  its  purely 
technical  aspects.  But  many  were  increasingly  concerned  about  how  well  our  gov¬ 
ernment  was  fulfilling  its  responsibilities  to  its  war  wounded,  believing  that  the 
wealthiest  nation  in  the  world  owed  ideal  care  to  men  who  had  been  rather  indis¬ 
criminately  selected  to  fight  for  a  questionable  cause. 


REHABILITATION:  THE  CHALLENGE 

Converging  in  the  spring  of  1968  to  effect  a  significant  change  in  the  overall 
medical  management  of  our  patients  were  a  growing  discontent  with  the  war,  a  bur¬ 
geoning  number  of  casualties,  and  a  changing  attitude  toward  the  rehabilitation  of 
the  seriously  injured  soldier.  The  specialty  of  rehabilitation  had  continued  to  ma¬ 
ture  during  the  quieter  early  years  of  the  Vietnam  War  from  1961  through  1967,  and 
its  concept  had  been  expanded.  Social  workers,  vocational  counselors,  government 
agencies,  business,  and  industry  all  became  more  involved  with  the  transition  of  the 
wounded  and  disabled  soldier  to  the  status  of  a  wage-earning  civilian.  Physicians 
were  increasingly  realizing  that  the  surgical  challenge  extended  farther  than  the 
bodily  healing  of  damaged  patients.  But  the  rising  numbers  of  casualties  and  the 
political  and  moral  frustrations  resulting  from  the  Tet  offensive  in  1968  forced  a 
confrontation  with  the  question  of  how  far  the  rehabilitative  process  should  be 
taken.  When  did  medical  treatment  cease?  What  was  our  obligation  to  the  casualty 
as  a  patient,  as  a  man,  and  as  a  political  creditor? 

Motivation  became  a  major  tool  in  the  rehabilitation  of  the  orthopedic  patient. 
In  their  attempts  to  learn  how  it  could  best  be  used,  surgeons  gathered  to  discuss 
psychological  abstractions  openly  and  attempted  to  apply  them  systematically.  For 
orthopedic  residents,  eager  to  learn  the  technicalities  of  operative  techniques  of 
their  newly  chosen  specialty,  the  devotion  of  time  and  energy  to  such  discussions 
was  particularly  unusual.  Fortunately,  although  motivation  is  an  abstract  quality, 
difficult  to  describe,  even  more  difficult  to  recognize,  and  impossible  to  computer¬ 
ize  or  categorize  or  write  policies  on,  almost  everyone  recognized  what  it  was.  Ward 
nurses,  paramedical  personnel,  physical  therapists,  and  occupational  therapists  en¬ 
thusiastically  accepted  the  concept  and  proved  to  be  innovative  in  discovering,  en¬ 
gendering,  and  stimulating  patient  motivation.  But  how  these  medical  people  dis¬ 
charged  their  responsibilities  to  the  amputee  varied  greatly,  since  it  was  influenced 
by  their  own  definition  of  responsibility,  by  their  medical  philosophy,  and,  espe¬ 
cially  in  the  Vietnam  War,  by  the  politics  and  morality  of  the  time. 

Successful  rehabilitation  and  good  medical  management  were  frequently 
thwarted  by  the  leave  granted  the  wounded  soldier  to  return  home  as  soon  after  his 
return  to  the  United  States  as  his  physical  condition  allowed.  While  valid  for  com¬ 
passionate  reasons,  it  interrupted  treatment,  often  for  thirty  days  or  more.  The 
poorly  adjusted  casualty  tended  to  become  even  more  so  at  home,  where  he  was 
often  pampered,  spoiled,  and  lulled  into  a  state  of  lethargy  and  dependency — all  of 
which  worked  against  our  attempts  to  motivate  and  rehabilitate.  A  preferable  ap¬ 
proach  involved  giving  shorter  periods  of  leave  more  frequently  and  coordinating 


REHABILITATION  OF  THE  COMBAT-WOUNDED  AMPUTEE 


195 


them  with  a  rehabilitation  program,  but  attempts  to  do  so  were  often  defeated  by 
parental  and  political  pressures. 

Patient  motivation  was  most  successfully  exploited  to  achieve  rehabilitation  in 
dealing  with  the  amputee,  but  the  motivational  techniques  developed  with  him 
were  used  with  various  degrees  of  success  with  other  types  of  casualties.  The  pa¬ 
tient  with  the  shattered  femur  or  mangled  hand  posed  greater  reconstructive  chal¬ 
lenges  to  the  surgeon,  and  his  hospitalization,  frequently  protracted  as  it  was  by 
multiple  operations,  problems  of  infection,  and  nerve  and  bone  loss,  was  often 
longer  than  that  of  the  amputee.  Nevertheless,  the  amputee’s  loss  was  more  visible 
to  him,  to  his  family,  and  to  society.  With  the  exception  of  the  brain-damaged,  the 
cord-injured,  or  the  castrated  patient,  the  amputee’s  body  image  was  more  altered 
and  his  emotional  stress  was  greater  than  for  most  other  war  wounded.  His  conspic¬ 
uous  loss  made  it  possible  for  him  to  display  his  disability  and  to  use  it  to  foster  his 
dependence.  Thus,  the  poorly  motivated  amputee  tended,  or  at  least  was  tempted, 
to  become  a  professional  cripple — physically,  emotionally,  and  sociologically. 

Understanding  the  individual  patient  was  necessary  to  successful  use  of  motiva¬ 
tion  in  his  rehabilitation,  whatever  his  injury.  Although  the  fact  that  a  wound  of  the 
psyche  coexisted  with  the  somatic  wound  helped  explain  differing  reactions  to  the 
same  type  of  injury,  whether  the  psychic  trauma  proved  to  be  significant  and  lasting 
depended  on  many  things,  among  them  the  circumstances  of  the  injury,  the  patient's 
personality,  and  the  nature  of  the  wound  itself.  Wounds  that  caused  persistent  and 
severe  pain  noticeably  affected  the  patient’s  personality  and  attitude,  but  pain  and 
impaired  function  were  not  the  only  factors  governing  a  patient’s  reaction  to  his  in¬ 
jury.  Some  wounds  have  traditionally  borne  a  particular  stigma  not  necessarily  pro¬ 
portional  to  their  overall  seriousness,  and  the  fear  that  they  have  inspired  also  ad¬ 
versely  affected  the  patient’s  motivation.  Because  different  men  react  so  differently 
to  pain,  fear,  and  wounding,  surgeons  encountered  varied  and  often  unpredictable 
reactions  in  amputees  from  the  Vietnam  War.  The  rehabilitation  team  discovered, 
however,  that  subjective  responses  to  wounds  could  become  tools  for  motivation. 

Those  who  proved  capable  of  managing  much  of  their  own  rehabilitation  dis¬ 
played  many  diverse  qualities,  some  obvious — among  them  courage,  philosophic 
acceptance,  and  aggressiveness — and  others  more  subtle  including  sublimation, 
transference,  and  overcompensation.  The  sum  total  of  these  reactions,  whatever  the 
particular  mechanism,  was  adaptation.  Those  who  adapted  well  needed  only  medi¬ 
cal  technical  skills  and  logistical  aid  to  attain  their  rehabilitation.  The  patient  who 
was  psychically  devastated  by  his  wound,  regardless  of  its  nature,  might  remain  so 
for  long  periods  or  even  permanently.  These  men,  a  minority  of  the  total,  appeared 
to  have  no  reserves  or  inner  strength  and  responded  listlessly,  or  not  at  all,  to  our 
attempts  to  rehabilitate  them.  They  seemed  drained  of  will  and  the  resolve  to  im¬ 
prove  and  almost  to  welcome  a  permanent  state  of  disability.  They  manifested  their 
psychic  wounding  in  many  different  ways,  some  by  chronic  depression,  some  by  ap¬ 
athy  and  listlessness,  and  some  by  antisocial  behavior.  Unsophisticated  in  the  sci¬ 
ence  of  psychiatry,  surgeons  classified  these  reactions  as  neuroses,  a  term  which, 
even  though  passe,  still  proved  useful  in  overall  management  of  these  patients.  For 
the  majority  of  casualties  who  fell  between  the  two  extremes,  recognition  that  the 
psychic  aspects  of  some  wounds  required  special  attention  proved  useful  in  facilitat¬ 
ing  and  accelerating  the  recovery  process. 


196 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


As  is  so  often  true  in  the  practice  of  medicine  of  any  specialty,  communication 
and  education  proved  to  be  most  valuable  tools,  since  the  patient  often  had  many 
needless  misapprehensions  about  his  injury.  In  these  instances,  a  thorough  explana¬ 
tion  of  the  wound  and  its  significance  quelled  the  anxieties  and  depression  that  had 
inhibited  his  contribution  to  his  recovery.  Some  fears  were  based  on  misconceptions 
of  future  surgical  procedures,  since  terms  such  as  “debridement,”  “scar  revision,” 
“internal  fixation,”  and  “delayed  closure”  had  no  real  meaning  for  many,  who  were 
inclined  to  imagine  the  worst.  The  amputee  was  both  fearful  and  ignorant  about  the 
various  types  of  amputations  and  prosthetics  and  their  implications  for  future  func¬ 
tional  capacity.  Most  patients  were  reluctant  to  admit  their  ignorance  or  were  inhib¬ 
ited  by  the  disparity  in  rank  between  themselves  and  their  surgeons.  Thus,  although 
most  patients  quickly  acquired  a  practical  education  in  some  of  these  matters 
through  their  own  observations,  experience,  and  conversations  with  other  patients, 
much  of  what  they  learned  was  based  on  superstition,  misunderstanding,  and  gossip. 
We  deemed  it  important  to  establish  rapport  and  to  start  patient  education  shortly 
after  the  patient  entered  in  the  hospital.  Ward  officers  were  encouraged  to  start  the 
process  in  the  initial  interview  with  the  patient  and  to  continue  it  on  ward  rounds. 

The  approach  to  education,  straightforward  and  basically  simple,  had  three  objec¬ 
tives.  The  first  was  identification  and  analysis  of  the  problem  with  the  patient.  The 
aim  was  a  realistic  look  by  the  patient  and  doctor  together  at  the  injury  and  the 
anatomy  of  the  injured  part  and  an  explanation  of  the  healing  process.  The  second 
was  an  examination  of  the  significance  of  the  injury  to  the  patient’s  body  and  to  his  fu¬ 
ture.  This,  although  usually  simple,  could  be  complex  because  of  what  the  patient  had 
already  been  told  and  the  prejudices  and  fears  that  had  already  become  entrenched. 
In  spinal  cord  or  pelvis  injuries,  the  probabilities  concerning  the  patient's  future  sex¬ 
ual  capacity  had  to  be  addressed.  When  there  were  disfiguring  wounds,  a  forecast  of 
future  appearance  was  necessary.  Amputees  required  education  about  their  pros¬ 
thetic  and  functional  potential  as  well  as  discussion  on  how  they  would  be  received  by 
families  and  society.  The  third  was  an  indoctrination  into  the  rehabilitation  process. 
The  patient  was  shown  how  he  could  make  a  quicker,  more  comfortable,  and  more 
satisfactory  recovery  if  he  contributed  actively  to  his  own  progress.  The  difference  be¬ 
tween  active  and  passive  participation  was  made  clear.  The  various  types  of  rehabili¬ 
tation  programs,  both  obligatory  and  voluntary,  in  which  he  would  be  participating 
were  explained  as  were  the  interests  and  identities  of  the  people  conducting  these 
programs.  Great  emphasis  was  placed  on  progress  and  on  planning  for  the  future. 

The  third  phase  was  continued  throughout  the  patient’s  hospitalization.  Patients 
with  similar  wounds  or  problems  who  were  making  good  progress  were  often  en¬ 
listed  as  teachers  and  stimulators.  All  members  of  the  rehabilitation  team — ward 
nurses,  corpsmen,  technicians,  physical  and  occupational  therapists — contributed, 
often  with  effectiveness  and  enthusiasm  that  outstripped  that  of  a  physician’s. 
Wives,  girl  friends,  and  parents  were  also  helpful  if  they  did  not  smother  the  patient 
with  sympathy  and  protection.  LJnfortunately,  the  families  of  the  more  passive  pa¬ 
tients,  those  who  most  needed  stimulation,  were  those  most  inclined  to  be  overpro- 
tective.  With  some  of  these  patients,  their  families  emerged  as  adversaries  to  the  re¬ 
habilitation  program  and  in  some  instances  caused  it  to  fail. 

Some  patients  preferred  discussing  their  injuries  privately  with  the  physician,  but 
others  were  more  open  and  expressive  when  part  of  a  group  discussion.  Amputees 


REHABILITATION  OF  THE  COMBAT- WOUNDED  AMPUTEE 


197 


tended  to  congregate  because  of  their  common  problems  and  their  assignment  to 
amputee  wards,  to  form  their  own  exclusive  fraternity  from  which  medical  personnel 
were  largely  excluded.  In  day  rooms,  at  the  Red  Cross,  and  in  local  bars,  groups 
tended  to  spring  up  spontaneously  within  the  amputee  society,  among  patients  in 
traction  confined  for  most  of  their  hours  to  one  ward  or  cubicle,  or  among  men  in 
physical  therapy.  The  same  was  true  for  hand  surgery  patients.  Some  patients  of  di¬ 
verse  wounds,  but  with  common  vocational  interests,  were  brought  together  through 
vocational  rehabilitation  sessions.  In  some,  race,  background,  or  hobbies  was  the 
common  ground.  The  commissioned  officer  patient  was  sometimes  included  in 
groups  and  sometimes  excluded  from  spontaneous  and  social  groups,  but  no  discrim¬ 
ination  was  made  on  the  basis  of  rank  where  groups  were  formed  by  the  staff.  The 
officer  patient  who  was  assigned  to  a  group  sometimes  excluded  himself  or  was  re¬ 
jected  by  the  group.  He  could  become  a  difficult  patient  to  rehabilitate.  With  these 
few,  the  bar  at  the  hospital  officers'  club  was  often  his  ally,  though  seldom  his  friend. 

Since  much  of  the  conversation  in  the  informal  groups  was  based  on  surmise 
and  gossip  and  might  reinforce  misinformation,  the  creation  of  structured  group 
discussions  led  by  someone  knowledgeable  on  the  topics  was  attempted.  These 
group  sessions  were  useful  in  improving  both  education  and  communication  be¬ 
tween  patients  and  staff.  Some  patients  attended  groups  but  seemed  not  to  partici¬ 
pate,  although  they  might  report  later  that  they  had  achieved  a  better  understand¬ 
ing  of  their  injuries  and  treatment  by  their  presence  at  such  sessions.  Others  were 
willing  to  ask  questions  while  in  the  group  on  topics  which  they  were  reticent  to  dis¬ 
cuss  alone  with  their  physicians. 

These  group  encounters  were  not  regarded  as  “group  therapy"  sessions  but  rather 
as  a  means  to  better  understanding.  Members  of  the  psychiatry  staff  seldom  partici¬ 
pated,  nor  was  there  need  for  their  participation.  Psychiatric  attention  was,  of  course, 
occasionally  needed  by  an  individual  patient,  but  little  relationship  could  be  seen  be¬ 
tween  the  nature  of  the  patient  s  wounds  and  the  appearance  of  any  overt  psychic  ab¬ 
normality.  Since  orthopedic  surgeons  were  usually  understaffed  and  they  often  had 
difficulty  merely  in  keeping  up  with  the  surgical  schedule,  ward  rounds,  and  the  or¬ 
thopedic  training  program,  they  tended  not  to  become  much  involved  with  the  psy¬ 
chodynamics  of  the  rehabilitation  process.  Yet  many  orthopedic  surgeons  perceived, 
if  only  dimly,  that  there  was  more  to  orthopedic  surgery  than  the  surgery  itself. 

MOTIVATION  AND  THE  REHABILITATION  PROGRAM 

Until  the  mid-1960s,  the  approach  to  wartime  amputee  care  had  changed  little 
from  that  of  World  Wars  I  and  II  and  the  Korean  War:  heal  the  stump,  fit  it  with  a 
prosthesis,  train  the  patient  in  its  use,  and  discharge  him  to  civilian  life.  Although 
advances  in  prosthetics  and  orthotics  contributed  to  better  function  and  the  addi¬ 
tion  of  vocational  counseling  and  driver  education  to  some  degree  rendered  the  ad¬ 
justment  to  civilian  life  easier,  progress  in  programs  to  help  amputees  live  as  normal 
lives  as  possible  had  not  been  significant.  All  management  programs  had  been  di¬ 
rected  toward  what  was  lost,  not  toward  what  had  been  retained.  Only  when  the 
number  of  amputees  began  climbing  rapidly  in  1967  were  ways  explored  to  expand 
their  total  rehabilitation,  using  patient  motivation  as  the  key. 


198 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


In  its  basic  form,  motivation  is  a  manifestation  of  a  desire  for  gratification.  Some¬ 
times  that  desire  is  obvious  enough — doing  something  because  it’s  fun,  it  feels  good, 
or  it  wins  admiration  and  recognition.  Probably  more  often  the  desire  is  much  more 
complex,  obscure,  or  subconscious.  Because  of  the  complexity  of  human  emotion  and 
behavior,  orthopedists  have  been  uncomfortable  in  speaking,  writing,  or  dealing  with 
these  mechanisms  and  have  tended  to  retreat  from  that  poorly  defined  field  to  the 
more  familiar  and  comfortable  terrain  of  the  operating  room,  laboratory,  and  clinic. 
But  as  the  Vietnam  War  continued,  military  orthopedists  grew  progressively  less  sat¬ 
isfied  about  the  results  that  they  were  achieving  and.  consequently,  became  increas¬ 
ingly  involved  in  rehabilitation.  Recognizing  the  significance  of  patient  motivation, 
they  attempted  to  stimulate  and  harness  it  to  their  ends  and  thus  found  themselves  in¬ 
dulging  in  behavior  modification,  although  they  did  not  recognize  it  by  that  name. 
They  found  themselves  involved  in  trying  to  get  patients  to  do  things  that  they  didn't 
necessarily  want  to  do  by  making  them  want  to.  Once  they  became  consciously  aware 
of  what  they  were  doing,  they  found  it  increasingly  easy  to  devise  means  to  that  end. 
In  many  patients,  the  process,  once  started,  became  self-sustaining,  and  individual  pa¬ 
tients  often  became  contributors  to  the  behavior  modification  of  others. 

The  attempt  to  find  enjoyable  physical  activities  that  would  contribute  to  pa¬ 
tient  rehabilitation,  combined  with  the  memory  of  reports  of  Austrian  skiers  who 
had  returned  to  skiing  after  World  War  II  in  spite  of  amputations,  led  to  the  consid¬ 
eration  of  their  sport  for  Fitzsimons'  amputees.  Willie  Schaeffler,  director  of  the  ski 
school  at  Arapahoe  Ski  Basin  in  Colorado,  affirmed  that  a  skier  who  had  lost  a  leg 
could  ski,  but  stressed  his  belief  that  skiing  would  be  feasible  only  for  amputees 
who  had  already  learned  to  walk,  who  were  in  excellent  physical  condition,  and 
who  had  been  expert  skiers  before  their  amputations.  None  of  the  Fitzsimons  am¬ 
putees  met  these  criteria,  and  none  were  in  the  least  interested  in  learning  to  ski. 
Nevertheless,  we  decided  to  try  it. 

Schaeffler  agreed  to  lend  his  advice  and  ski  instructors.  Larry  Jump,  the  owner 
of  Arapahoe  Basin,  10,800  feet  up  in  the  mountains  75  miles  west  of  Denver,  volun¬ 
teered  to  supply  the  ski  facilities.  Special  Services  buses  provided  transportation. 
Head  Skis  donated  skis  and  Cubco  and  Miller  ski  bindings.  Generous  donations 
from  Colorado  skiers  supplemented  Special  Services  ski  boots  and  clothing.  Aware 
that  in  Europe  the  one-legged  skier  used  one  normal  ski  and  two  very  short  skis 
mounted  on  some  type  of  pole  or  crutch,  the  orthopedic  brace  shop  at  Fitzsimons 
set  to  work  mounting  17-inch  ski  tips  to  Canadian  crutches.  They  devised  a  mount 
that  allowed  the  ski  to  tilt  back  and  forth  while  retaining  lateral  stability. 

Using  a  series  of  ski  movies,  instructions,  and  pep  talks,  Edwin  Lucks,  one  of 
Schaeffler’s  senior  instructors,  began  to  indoctrinate  the  Fitzsimons  amputees.  His 
great  enthusiasm  and  obvious  dedication  to  success  created  a  modest  amount  of  in¬ 
terest  in  the  amputees  and  produced  an  agreement  that  it  was  at  least  worth  trying. 
The  chance  discovery  a  few  weeks  later  that  Dr.  William  F.  Stanek.  chief  of  ortho¬ 
pedics  at  the  Denver  Children’s  Hospital,  had  been  trying  to  establish  such  a  pro¬ 
gram  for  juvenile  amputees  for  several  years  but  had  been  unable  to  obtain  much 
support  for  it,  led  to  an  agreement  to  join  forces. 

On  the  cold  and  snowy  morning  of  10  January  1968,  twenty  military  and  eigh¬ 
teen  amputee  youngsters,  aged  eight  to  seventeen,  assembled  on  the  slopes  of  Ara¬ 
pahoe  Mountain.  Assisting  the  amputees  were  numerous  volunteer  helpers,  among 


REHABILITATION  OF  THE  COMBAT-WOUNDED  AMPUTEE 


199 


them  Red  Cross  personnel,  physical  therapists,  medical  corpsmen,  and  four  be¬ 
mused  and  somewhat  apprehensive  ski  instructors  who,  having  practiced  skiing  on 
one  ski,  were  determined  to  remain  on  one  ski  throughout  the  day.  The  amputee  ski 
program  had  been  born  (fig.  53). 


Figure  53. — The  start  of  the  amputee  ski  program:  Vietnam  amputees  and  ski  instruc¬ 
tors,  Arapahoe  Basin,  Colorado,  10  January  1968. 


The  key  to  confidence  in  downhill  skiing  is  control  of  direction  and  speed,  which 
are  obtained  by  the  ability  to  change  direction  at  will,  which,  in  turn,  is  controlled 
either  by  torque  applied  to  the  long  axis  of  the  ski  or  by  twist  or  cant  of  the  ski,  or 
by  a  combination  of  both.  Cant,  or  edging,  is  the  angle  at  which  the  edges  of  the  skis 
are  applied  to  the  surface  of  the  snow.  The  preliminary  maneuver  essential  to  the 
application  of  torque  and  edging  is  weighting  and  unweighting  of  the  ski.  There¬ 
fore,  after  learning  to  stand  on  the  one  long  ski  and  to  use  the  crutch  outrigger  ski 
for  balance  and  support,  the  amputee  learned  to  hop  and  change  direction  of  the 
long  ski  by  weighting  and  unweighting  it,  starting  with  a  slight  crouch  followed  by  a 
quick  knee  and  elbow  extension  and  a  twist  of  the  trunk.  Although  many  normal 
skiers  take  several  seasons  of  ski  instruction  before  they  master  such  essentials, 
most  amputees  learned  them  in  a  lesson  or  two  and  some  seemingly  immediately,  in 
the  first  morning  on  the  slope  (fig.  54). 

As  soon  as  the  amputee  had  learned  to  change  the  direction  of  his  ski,  he  had 
enough  confidence  to  attempt  gliding  down  the  beginners’  slope.  Most  conquered  it  by 
the  end  of  the  first  day  and  were  then  eager  for  something  more  challenging.  Having 


200 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  54. — Three-track  skiers.  Below-knee 
and  above-knee  amputees  on  skis. 


discovered  the  fun  and  exhilaration  of  skiing  during  the  first  few  runs  on  the  begin¬ 
ners’  slope,  few  amputees  wished  to  quit.  By  the  end  of  the  day  all  of  the  amputee 
skiers  were  gliding  down  the  beginners'  slopes  and  using  the  rope  tow  lift.  Learning  to 
get  on  and  off  the  chair  lifts  presented  no  more  problem  for  the  amputee  skier  than  for 
any  other  skier;  if  anything,  dismounting  from  the  moving  chair  was  made  easier  by 
the  outrigger  skis  which  allowed  better  immediate  stability  and  balance  than  for  the 
skier  with  two  skis.  Amputee  skiers  experienced  few  falls  at  either  end  of  the  chair  lift. 
Mistakes  and  falls  on  the  slopes  were  numerous,  but  high  spirits  and  good  humor  pre¬ 
vailed,  and  most  patients  were  convinced  that  skiing  was  not  only  possible  but  fun. 

On  the  first  day,  the  instructors  and  their  students  also  began  to  discover  skiing 
and  teaching  techniques  that  they  continued  to  develop  throughout  the  rest  of  that 
winter.  The  short-ski  crutch  outrigger  worked  fine  in  gliding  downhill  but  proved  to 
be  of  no  help  in  climbing  or  walking  on  the  level.  A  spring-loaded  “snow  spike”  was 
therefore  developed  which  would  be  extruded  through  the  bottom  of  the  outrigger 
ski  for  walking  and  could  be  retracted  for  gliding  downhill. 

Every  week  thereafter  for  that  first  winter,  a  busload  of  military  and  juvenile 
amputees  and  volunteers  met  at  Araphoe  Basin.  For  most,  the  rate  of  progress  ex¬ 
ceeded  expectations,  although  a  few  passive  patients  quit  after  the  first  attempt  and 
could  not  be  induced  to  continue.  By  the  end  of  the  second  session,  having  learned 
to  negotiate  the  chair  lifts,  a  few  were  skiing  on  intermediate  slopes.  By  the  end  of 
the  ski  season,  these  few  aggressive  ones — all  below-knee  amputees— were  skiing 
on  expert  slopes  with  skill  and  grace.  Most  took  four  or  five  days  of  lessons  before 
they  learned  to  handle  chair  lifts  and  intermediate  trails. 

Most  of  the  amputee  skiers  had  lost  one  lower  extremity,  and  these,  whether  the 
loss  was  below-knee  or  above-knee,  learned  to  ski  with  relative  ease.  Many  of 
them,  as  well  as  other  skiers  and  ski  instructors,  thought  that  learning  to  ski  actually 
seemed  to  be  quicker  and  easier  for  the  one-legged  skier  than  for  the  skier  with  two 


REHABILITATION  OF  THE  COMBAT-WOUNDED  AMPUTEE 


201 


legs.  The  upper  extremity  amputee  experienced  much  greater  difficulty.  He  still  had 
the  problem  of  learning  to  control  two  skis  but  could  usually  use  only  one  ski  pole 
and  thus  had  much  more  difficulty  with  control  and  balance.  Moreover,  receiving 
his  prosthesis  seldom  made  skiing  any  easier.  Those  who  continued  skiing  chose  to 
use  only  one  ski  pole. 

Initially,  only  amputees  with  healed  stumps  and  in  otherwise  healthy  condition 
were  allowed  to  participate.  As  the  program  became  popular  and  proved  safe,  how¬ 
ever,  many  amputees  with  unhealed  stumps  joined  and  in  numerous  instances  were 
skiing  well  before  being  fitted  with  a  prosthesis.  In  a  sense,  they  learned  to  ski  be¬ 
fore  they  learned  to  walk.  There  were  many  falls,  few  accidents,  and  only  one  in¬ 
jury.  This  last  was  a  fractured  tibia  incurred  by  a  below-knee  amputee  who  became 
so  enthusiastic  about  skiing  that  he  tried  ski  jumping.  The  fracture  was  treated  with 
a  long  leg  walking  cast  that  he  was  still  wearing  when  fitted  with  his  first  prosthesis. 
He  returned  to  skiing  the  following  year. 

Many  amputee  patients  were  recovering  from  multiple  wounds,  and  all,  of 
course,  suffered  from  various  degrees  of  depression  because  of  their  disabilities. 
The  ski  slopes  developed  into  a  great  therapeutic  atmosphere  in  which  physical  dis¬ 
ability  was  looked  upon  only  as  a  challenge  and  for  which  the  mountain  air,  the  ex¬ 
hilaration  of  skiing,  and  the  magnificent  mountain  scenery  were  catalysts.  The  rela¬ 
tionship  between  the  soldiers  and  the  children  was  mutually  supportive.  The 
children  were  excited  over  their  association  with  warriors,  all  of  whom  they  saw  as 
heroes.  The  soldiers  were  flattered  to  be  so  admired  and,  at  the  same  time,  deter¬ 
mined  that  the  children  would  not  outperform  them.  A  fine  sense  of  symbiotic  ca¬ 
maraderie  developed  between  these  two  groups. 

As  the  program  enlarged  and  its  success  became  apparent,  press  coverage  was 
quickly  expanded.  Although  the  publicity  brought  beneficial  contributions  of 
equipment,  it  also  brought  problems.  Volunteers  sprang  up  from  everywhere,  some 
sincere  in  their  desire  to  help,  some  seeking  publicity,  and  some  simply  troublesome 
do-gooders  wishing  principally  to  gratify  themselves.  Many  agencies  and  individu¬ 
als  praised  the  program,  although  some  condemned  it  as  cruel  and  inhumane.  The 
orthopedic  consultant  for  The  Surgeon  General's  Office  stated  that  it  was  inappro¬ 
priate  to  the  mission  of  an  Army  hospital  and  implied  that  time  should  be  spent  on 
other  and  “better”  projects.  With  all  the  publicity  over  the  amputee  skiing,  it  prob¬ 
ably  did  seem  that  it  was  an  elaborate  and  time-consuming  project,  but  in  fact  it  was 
not.  The  use  of  funds  and  military  personnel  was  extremely  modest;  private  groups 
and  individuals  donated  most  of  the  equipment  and  provided  most  of  the  assistance 
on  the  slopes.  Several  military  orthopedic  services — notably  in  the  Navy — also  an¬ 
nounced  that  it  was  dangerous  and  an  inappropriate  military  endeavor.  The  charge 
was  made  that  such  programs  tended  to  foster  and  prolong  the  inclination  of  am¬ 
putees  to  rely  exclusively  on  one  another  for  companionship,  thus  serving  as  a  de¬ 
terrent  rather  than  an  aid  to  rehabilitation. 

In  that  first  year,  several  bilateral  lower  extremity  amputees  insisted  on  accom¬ 
panying  the  skiers  to  Arapahoe  Basin.  We  tried  to  accommodate  them,  but 
wheelchairs  and  snow  proved  incompatible.  Some  persisted,  however,  and  de¬ 
manded  their  share  of  winter  sports.  They  tried  rubber  tire  tubes  tethered  by  a  rope 
controlled  by  an  instructor,  an  experiment  that  proved  to  be  both  exhausting  and 
dangerous.  They  then  started  on  ski  sleds  which  could  be  controlled  by  shifting 


202 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


body  weight.  But  getting  these  patients  and  their  sleds  on  and  off  chair  lifts  proved 
difficult,  and  the  sleds,  which  developed  considerable  momentum  and  easily  went 
out  of  control,  were  dangerous.  After  the  first  year,  these  too  were  abandoned. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  second  winter.  December  1968.  however,  one  combined 
above-knee  and  below-knee  amputee  was  so  insistent  that  the  possibilities  of  skiing 
were  explored  for  him.  Lucks,  the  instructor,  fitted  with  bilateral  double  upright 
braces  with  locked  knees  and  ankles,  was  able  to  demonstrate  that  controlled  skiing 
was  possible  using  only  hip  and  trunk  control.  The  amputee  was  then  fitted  with  a 
type  of  stubby  prosthesis  for  each  lower  extremity,  and  in  these  he  learned  to  ski 
(Brown  1970).  Enthusiastic  about  his  skiing,  in  his  first  season  he  learned  to  ski  on 
expert  trails  and  even  participated  in  slalom  and  downhill  races.  Mounting  and  dis¬ 
mounting  the  chair  lift  with  rigid  knees  and  ankles  required  courage  and  agility,  but 
he  managed  and  soon  was  able  to  accomplish  this  without  interruption  of  the  lift 
operation.  Several  other  bilateral  amputees,  all  above-knee  amputees,  learned  to 
ski  in  the  same  fashion,  and  most  did  better  on  skis  than  they  did  with  ambulation 
in  their  "normal"  above-knee  prostheses  (fig.  55). 

Great  courage  and  determination  were  required  for  a  man  with  no  legs  to  learn  to  ski. 
Those  who  succeeded  truly  were  highly  motivated.  But  they  were  also  highly  rewarded. 

The  amputee  ski  program  at  Fitzsimons  continued  for  five  seasons.  Many  physi¬ 
cians.  ski  professionals,  and  amputees  from  all  over  the  E'nited  States  visited  the 


Figure  55. — Who  needs  knees?  On  the  right,  a  bilateral  above-knee  amputee  skier  on 
stubb\  prostheses.  The  ski  instructor  to  his  left  is  wearing  lons-les  braces  with 
locked  knees,  demonstrating  that  it  is  possible  to  ski  with  onlv  hip  control  w  hen  knees 
and  ankles  are  rigid,  or  absent. 


REHABILITATION  OF  THE  COMBAT-WOUNDED  AMPUTEE 


203 


program  and  applied  what  they  had  learned  to  their  own  ski  areas.  Orthopedists, 
too,  learned  from  them,  and  though  a  healthy  rivalry  developed,  there  was  a  gener¬ 
ous  exchange  of  information  and  helpful  suggestions.  Amputee  skiing  was  started 
in  several  parts  of  the  United  States  at  about  the  same  time  as  in  Colorado,  some  in 
conjunction  with  military  hospitals  and  some  under  civilian  auspices.  The  answer  to 
the  question  of  which  ski  program  for  amputees  was  the  first  to  be  established  in 
this  country  is  not  known.  Nor  is  it  particularly  important. 

Some  ski  instructors  who  started  in  the  Fitzsimons  program  have  devoted  much 
of  their  subsequent  skiing  careers  to  teaching  handicapped  skiers  and  developing 
new  techniques  for  them.  The  work  of  Edwin  Lucks  has  been  outstanding  in  this 
field.  Lucks  has  successfully  developed  skiing  methods  for  the  blind  and  for  people 
with  many  kinds  of  physical  disability. 

The  program  was  discontinued  during  the  winter  of  1973  when  the  last  of  the 
Vietnam  amputees  was  discharged  from  Fitzsimons.  The  Children’s  Hospital  pro¬ 
gram  moved  to  another  ski  area  and  continued  to  teach  amputees  of  all  ages  to  ski. 
A  total  of  400  amputees  learned  to  ski  in  the  Fitzsimons  program,  and  many  contin¬ 
ued  to  ski  with  pleasure,  pride,  and  proficiency,  often  participating  in  ski  racing  and 
demonstrations  and  encouraging  and  even  teaching  other  amputees  to  ski. 

The  primary  objective  of  the  program,  however,  was  not  to  make  skiers  of  am¬ 
putees  but  to  aid  disabled  patients  to  accomplish  something  that  would  help  restore 
their  pride  and  confidence.  It  was  a  tool  to  stimulate  motivation  to  adapt  and  suc¬ 
ceed.  Many  of  the  amputee  skiers  observed  that,  after  having  learned  to  ski.  they 
looked  upon  themselves  not  as  crippled  but  rather  as  merely  “inconvenienced.” 

Skiing  was  not  the  only  sport  used  as  part  of  the  rehabilitation  program.  As  the 
winter  of  1967-68  turned  to  spring  and  the  snow  in  the  mountains  began  to  retreat,  the 
orthopedic  staff  in  Fitzsimons,  impressed  by  the  accomplishments  of  their  patients  on 
the  ski  slopes,  looked  for  other  means  to  stimulate  motivation.  With  the  help  of  Red 
Cross  personnel,  a  swimming,  water  safety,  and  scuba  diving  course  was  started  in  the 
large  indoor  Special  Services  pool  on  the  hospital  grounds.  In  this  program,  many  pa¬ 
tients  convalescent  from  trunk  and  extremity  injuries  learned  to  swim  or  were  enabled 
to  return  to  swimming  and  underwater  swimming.  This  achievement  helped  motivate 
the  patient  to  participate  in  his  own  rehabilitation  in  the  same  manner  as  did  skiing. 

The  most  notable  early  success  with  this  pool  therapy  was  with  the  first  bilateral 
amputee  skier.  After  he  modified  the  bottom  half  of  a  wet  suit  to  conform  to  his 
stumps  and  affixed  swim  fins  to  it,  he  was  taught  to  swim  and  to  scuba  dive.  A  triple 
amputee — upper  extremity  above  the  elbow,  bilateral  lower  extremity  above  the 
knee — learned  to  swim  and  was  then  instrumental  in  enticing  a  second  triple  amputee 
with  the  same  combination  of  extremity  loss  to  learn.  In  each  instance,  this  accom¬ 
plishment  helped  considerably  in  improving  morale,  body  image,  and  motivation  to  do 
other  things.  The  swimming  was  good  exercise  and,  once  again,  the  sense  of  accom¬ 
plishment  helped  keep  the  patient  from  thinking  of  himself  as  a  “cripple”  (fig.  56). 

The  use  of  the  pool  for  patients  with  pelvic  and  lower  extremity  injuries  was  ex¬ 
tremely  helpful  in  starting  early  ambulation.  Buoyancy  of  the  body  with  lightened 
load  on  healing  fractures  and  damaged  joints  allowed  exercise,  weightbearing,  and 
early  gait  training,  often  months  before  they  would  otherwise  have  been  possible. 

Most  patients  were  motivated  to  use  the  pool  for  their  rehabilitation,  but  some 
were  afraid  of  the  water  and  required  considerable  encouragement  to  start.  Pa- 


204 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


Figure  56. — Bilateral  above-knee  amputee 
with  improvised  swim  fins.  He  was  also  the  first 
bilateral  above-knee  amputee  to  learn  to  ski. 


tients  who  had  benefited  from  the  pool  and  who  were  enjoying  it  were  the  best  aids 
to  motivating  the  timid.  Occasionally  the  program  was  made  obligatory  for  the 
more  passive  ones  for  whom  persuasion  was  not  enough,  but  this  move  was  rarely 
successful.  One  cannot  order  someone  to  be  motivated;  the  motivation  must  be 
stimulated,  not  commanded. 

A  third  rehabilitation  program  was  initiated  by  a  Fitzsimons  social  worker, 
Mary  Woolverton,  who  lived  near  Denver  on  a  small  ranch  where  she  raised  Mor¬ 
gan  horses.  An  expert  skier  and  equestrienne,  she  had  much  contact  with  amputees 
and  other  war  wounded  and  their  families  in  the  course  of  her  social  work  at  the 
hospital.  As  the  first  amputee  ski  season  came  to  a  halt  in  April  1968,  she  enticed  a 
few  of  the  amputees  to  ride  one  of  her  even-tempered  Morgans.  They  did  so  well 
that  she  was  encouraged  to  start  a  regular  riding  program  at  Fitzsimons  for  any  am¬ 
putees  or  other  patients  deemed  fit  enough.  Once  a  week  Mary  brought  two  of  her 
horses  to  the  hospital  parade  grounds  and  instructed  orthopedic  patients  in  the  fun¬ 
damentals  of  horsemanship,  including  saddling,  mounting,  riding,  and  grooming. 

The  first  pupils  were  several  below-knee  amputees  who  had  little  difficulty  in 
learning  to  mount,  sit,  and  ride  the  horse  at  a  walk.  They  were  soon  joined  by 
above-knee  amputees,  and  they,  too,  learned  to  ride,  although  balance  and  control 
were  a  bit  more  difficult  for  them.  As  still  more  amputees  joined  in  and  became 
adept  at  riding,  they  became  enthusiastic  boosters  of  the  program  and  encouraged 
others  to  participate.  When  two  bilateral  above-knee  amputees  asked  to  learn,  we 
started  them  in  spite  of  our  misgivings.  We  boosted  them  from  their  wheelchairs 
into  the  saddle  and  used  a  safety  strap  about  their  waists  to  hold  them  to  the  saddle. 
Easily  learning  to  ride  at  a  walk,  they  progressed  to  a  trot  and  then  to  a  canter  in 
the  first  day.  After  a  few  sessions,  they  were  riding  at  a  gallop,  whooping  in  triumph 
at  their  accomplishment.  They  were  very  proud  of  this — one  told  me,  “Colonel, 


REHABILITATION  OF  THE  COMBAT-WOUNDED  AMPUTEE 


205 


when  I  m  in  this  saddle,  I  m  taller  than  you  are.”  This  first  group  was  then  joined  by 
many  other  patients  with  many  combinations  of  injuries,  some  with  unhealed 
stumps  and  open  wounds  and  some  with  an  extremity  in  a  plaster  cast.  Once  they 
became  contident  ot  their  ability,  most  disdained  use  of  the  safety  strap  (fig.  57). 


Figure  57. — Triple  amputee  in  the 
saddle.  Note  the  “holsters”  for  his 
thigh  stumps. 


One  of  the  most  remarkable  riders  was  the  triple  amputee  who  had  learned  to 
swim.  In  addition  to  bilateral  above-knee  and  left  above-elbow  amputations,  this 
young  man  had  a  stiff  right  elbow  and  only  one  eye.  He  not  only  learned  to  ride,  but 
insisted  on  learning  to  pull  himself  into  the  saddle  from  his  wheelchair.  Determined 
to  become  an  expert  horseman,  he  added  trick  riding  and  roping  to  his  repertoire  as 
he  progressed.  The  saddle  “holsters”  devised  at  his  suggestion  for  his  above-knee 
stumps  assisted  him  in  maintaining  a  more  stable  and  secure  seat  in  the  saddle. 

Another  highly  motivated  young  man  had  had  bilateral  hip  disarticulations;  he, 
too,  learned  to  ride.  At  first  his  saddle  was  built  up  with  pads  and  pillows,  but  he 
eventually  dispensed  with  these  trappings  and  used  an  ordinary  western  saddle.  Al¬ 
though  he  lacked  any  means  of  gripping  the  horse,  and  therefore  was  never  really 
secure,  he  became  an  excellent  rider.  He  and  several  other  bilateral  lower  extremity 
amputees  gave  exhibitions  of  riding  and  roping  at  many  horse  shows  and  rodeos. 

A  bilateral  above-knee  amputee  who  was  also  blind  was  taught  to  ride.  Al¬ 
though  initially  withdrawn  and  depressed,  this  patient  learned  to  trot  on  a  horse 
and  to  lead  his  mount  by  verbal  guidance  from  an  accompanying  rider.  He  was 


206 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


never  a  great  success  as  a  rider,  but  he  commented  that  the  ability  to  mount,  sit,  and 
trot  a  horse  was  the  only  part  of  his  rehabilitation  program  that  gave  him  any  real 
encouragement  to  face  the  future.  Although  far  from  a  typical  rehabilitative  chal¬ 
lenge,  he  demonstrated  the  point  about  latent  motivation. 

The  amputee  riders  formed  a  riding  group  which  participated  in  competitive 
trail  rides  and  mountain  pack  trips.  Competing  against  professional  riders,  they  en¬ 
tered  and  won  many  trophies  in  riding  contests.  Several  now  make  their  living  with 
horses,  most  notably  the  triple  amputee,  who  runs  his  own  3,000-acre  ranch  and 
raises  and  shows  quarter  horses  (fig.  58). 


Figure  58. — Two  amputees  at  a  gallop  on  the  parade  ground  at  Fitzsimons  Army  Hos¬ 
pital,  July  1968.  On  the  left,  a  triple  amputee  (bilateral  above-knee  plus  loss  of  left 
arm).  On  the  right,  a  bilateral  above-knee  amputee  wearing  a  plaster  cast  for  gunshot 
fractures  of  his  left  upper  extremity. 


Programs  in  golfing,  dancing,  fishing,  bowling,  and  water  skiing  were  also  orga¬ 
nized  by  many  Fitzsimons  personnel  who  volunteered  their  free  time.  Many  of  the 
activities  were  conceived  and  organized  by  the  patients  themselves.  Although  for 
obvious  reasons  bicycling  was  never  popular  with  the  amputees,  two  below-knee 
amputees  became  adept  on  a  tandem  bicycle.  Many  further  extended  their  activities 
beyond  what  might  seem  to  be  reasonable  limits.  Several  took  up  skydiving.  One 
bilateral  below-knee  amputee  parachuted  regularly  wearing  his  prostheses  and  also 
enjoyed  mountaineering  and  rock  climbing. 


REHABILITATION  OF  THE  COMBAT-WOUNDED  AMPUTEE 


207 


All  these  activities  had  their  recreational  aspects,  but  recreation  was  considered 
as  only  an  extra  enticement  to  stimulate  the  patient  to  push  himself  beyond  what  he 
might  have  considered  his  limits.  Once  started,  most  of  these  patients  sustained 
their  own  momentum  toward  rehabilitation. 


LESSONS  LEARNED  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS 

The  complex  and  pressing  rehabilitative  needs  of  the  hundreds  of  amputees  hospi¬ 
talized  at  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital  led  physicians  to  devote  much  thought  to  moti¬ 
vation.  This  chapter  describes  the  concepts  and  techniques  developed  at  Fitzsimons  in 
greater  detail  for  the  amputee  patient  than  for  other  types  of  war  wounded,  but  they 
are  equally  applicable  to  most  other  patients,  regardless  of  the  nature  of  their  wounds. 
We  discovered  in  dealing  with  amputees  that,  as  far  as  levels  of  motivation  were  con¬ 
cerned,  our  patients  fit  the  usual  bell-shaped  distribution  curve,  a  fact  that  is  much 
clearer  in  retrospect  than  it  was  at  the  time.  At  one  extreme  were  the  few  so  highly 
motivated  to  succeed  that  they  did  not  really  need  medical  personnel  to  stimulate 
them.  Given  the  necessary  technical  support,  they  would  have  rehabilitated  them¬ 
selves  without  our  efforts.  At  the  other  extreme  was  that  minority  of  men  who  were  by 
nature  nonachievers  on  whom  our  efforts  were  mostly  wasted,  men  who  almost  willed 
themselves  to  become  permanently  disabled,  both  physically  and  mentally. 

Without  motivation,  the  seriously  wounded  person  will  not  thrive.  Low  levels  of 
motivation  will  produce  only  mediocre  levels  of  recovery,  at  least  in  the  functional 
sense.  The  patient  with  motivation  in  abundance,  the  doer,  the  achiever — or  the  in¬ 
dividual  who  can  be  stimulated  to  be  an  achiever — will  not  only  cope  with  his  injury 
and  recover  faster  but  may  also  overcome  during  his  rehabilitation  almost  any 
physical  loss  his  injuries  have  imposed  on  him.  And  since  every  patient  has  at  least 
some  potential  for  motivation  that  can  be  stimulated  to  develop  and  then  used  in 
his  behalf,  those  responsible  for  rehabilitation  found  recognizing,  encouraging,  en¬ 
hancing,  and  exploiting  patients’  motivation  potential  a  real  challenge. 

The  patients  who  fell  between  these  two  extremes  would  heal,  would  cope  with 
disability,  and  would  become  functional,  but  would  do  it  better  if  the  surgeon  found 
ways  to  increase  their  motivation.  Many  techniques  were  used.  Some  patients  re¬ 
sponded  better  to  the  carrot  than  to  the  stick;  some  needed  praise,  some  bullying. 
Reward,  punishment,  cajolery,  praise,  and  constant  encouragement  were  all  useful. 
Our  objective  was  to  have  the  patient  develop  pride  in  achievement,  to  participate 
in  his  own  recovery,  to  heal  his  injuries,  and,  if  not  to  surmount  his  disability,  then  at 
least  to  succeed  in  achieving  rehabilitation  goals  despite  that  disability. 

The  key  to  making  the  greatest  use  possible  of  the  patient  s  potential  for  motiva¬ 
tion  proved  to  be  communication  between  surgeon  and  patient.  Free  communica¬ 
tion — a  clear  explanation  of  what  was  wrong  with  the  patient,  what  he  could  expect, 
when  he  could  expect  it,  and  how  his  own  efforts  could  contribute  to  his  own  recov¬ 
ery — increased  the  patient  s  confidence  in  his  physician  and  served  as  a  stimulus  moti¬ 
vating  him  toward  recovery.  But  to  communicate  successfully,  the  physician  had  to 
know  the  patient,  his  personality  traits,  his  courage,  his  drive,  and  his  degree  of  perse¬ 
verance.  In  establishing  a  successful  relationship  with  his  patient,  the  surgeon  also 
learned  how  to  recruit  and  use  allies.  The  ward  nurse,  the  orderly,  the  physical  thera- 


208 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


pist,  the  occupational  therapist  (in  CONUS),  other  patients,  and  the  patient  s  family  all 
shared  in  the  effort  to  encourage  the  patient  to  participate  in  his  own  recovery  process. 

The  role  of  motivation  in  the  recovery  process  must  also  be  better  understood 
and  exploited.  Achieving  these  goals  will  require  theoretical  and  practical  research 
into  the  genesis  of  motivation  and  a  better  understanding  of  behavior  modification 
as  applied  to  returning  the  wounded  soldier  to  further  duty  or  to  a  productive  civil¬ 
ian  role.  Our  crudely  effective  attempts  at  Fitzsimons  originated  with  the  managing 
physician,  the  military  surgeon.  Perhaps  ways  in  which  these  goals  could  be  more 
effectively  attained  would  be  revealed  by  a  better  analysis  and  structuring  of  our 
aims  and  efforts  by  psychiatrists  and  psychologists.  Such  an  investigation  should 
start  in  peacetime;  it  is  too  easily  relegated  to  the  realm  of  the  theoretical  or  the 
“nice  to  have  but  not  necessary”  category  when  the  shooting  begins. 

The  Vietnam  War  was  the  first  war  in  history  in  which  the  lessons  learned  about 
wound  management  in  earlier  conflicts  were  promptly  applied  from  the  beginning. 
This,  of  course,  resulted  in  the  salvage  of  many  lives  and  extremities  which  would 
otherwise  have  been  lost  to  gas  gangrene  and  other  infections,  vascular  insuffi¬ 
ciency,  and  shock.  But  the  Vietnam  War  also  perpetuated  mistakes  of  policy  and 
omission  characteristic  of  the  management  of  patients  in  earlier  wars,  mistakes  that 
undermined  patient  morale  and  sabotaged  rehabilitation  efforts.  A  number  of  rec¬ 
ommendations  should  therefore  be  made  concerning  the  management  of  the  medi¬ 
cal  aspects  of  the  next  war — if  the  next  war  should  be  of  a  nature  to  permit  the  sal¬ 
vage  and  rehabilitation  of  the  seriously  injured  casualty.  Rehabilitation  goals  and 
responsibilities  for  both  the  military  medical  establishment  and  the  Veterans  Ad¬ 
ministration  should  be  defined.  A  clearer  delineation  of  the  mission  of  military  and 
government  medicine  is  needed,  as  is  a  forthright  statement— never  popular  in  ei¬ 
ther  political  or  bureaucratic  circles — of  responsibility  for  specific  levels  of  rehabili¬ 
tation  in  the  psychologic,  vocational,  functional,  and  anatomic  sense.  In  short,  the 
mission  of  each  type  of  hospital  should  be  defined  in  terms  of  who  does  what  to 
whom  and  with  what  ultimate  goal.  The  closer  to  the  tactical  situation  the  hospital 
is,  the  simpler  this  definition  will  be.  Conversely,  the  more  removed  from  the  scene 
of  wounding,  the  more  difficult  and  the  more  important  it  is  that  the  hospital’s  role 
in  rehabilitation  be  stated,  defined,  staffed,  and  planned. 

Although  the  primary  responsibilities  of  the  medical  personnel  in  forward  in¬ 
stallations  will  always  be  preservation  of  life,  support  of  vital  functions,  and  saving 
of  tissue,  all  military  medical  echelons  should  be  indoctrinated  in  established  reha¬ 
bilitative  goals.  Because  the  difficulty  and  the  importance  of  defining  and  delegat¬ 
ing  rehabilitative  goals  and  responsibilities  increases  with  the  distance  from  the 
scene  of  injury,  the  goals  that  must  be  achieved  to  return  wounded  soldiers  to  pro¬ 
ductive  function  should  be  publicized  throughout  both  the  military  and  civilian 
populace,  including  the  political.  As  a  part  of  this  program,  there  should  be  a  cor¬ 
relative  and  coordinative  effort  between  military  rehabilitation  centers  and  the 
business  and  industrial  complex. 

A  mobile  consultant  in  each  of  the  major  medical  specialties  should  be  desig¬ 
nated.  This  assignment  should  be  viewed  as  clinical  rather  than  administrative.  His 
duties  should  include  frequent  inspections  of  the  chain  of  evacuation.  He  should 
have  the  authority  to  effect  changes  in  evacuation  policies,  although  he  would,  of 
course,  have  to  coordinate  his  efforts  with  the  medical  regulating  officer  of  The 


REHABILITATION  OF  THE  COMBAT-WOUNDED  AMPUTEE 


209 


Surgeon  General's  Office  according  to  bed  availability  and  other  practical  consider¬ 
ations.  The  situation  that  arose  during  the  Vietnam  War,  when  the  orthopedic  con¬ 
sultant  to  The  Surgeon  General  was  the  chief  of  orthopedics  at  Walter  Reed  Gen¬ 
eral  Hospital  and  could  not  both  discharge  his  varied  responsibilities  at  Walter 
Reed  and  be  attentive  and  reactive  to  orthopedic  problems  throughout  the  Army, 
should  not  be  permitted  to  recur. 

The  chain  of  evacuation  of  patients  should  be  reexamined  and  greater  impor¬ 
tance  given  to  ultimate  patient  outcome  in  the  location  and  staffing  of  medical  in¬ 
stallations.  Although  factors  such  as  distance  and  the  availability  of  medical  facili¬ 
ties  and  personnel  cannot  be  known  in  advance  of  a  future  conflict,  given  this 
country's  total  capability,  such  factors  should  not  be  permitted  to  play  as  great  a 
role  as  they  did  in  the  Vietnam  War,  when  patient  outcome  was  badly  slighted.  Mul¬ 
tiple  transfers  should  be  avoided.  Specialized  treatment  centers  should  be  estab¬ 
lished,  staffed,  and  supported  to  accomplish  their  clearly  defined  missions,  and  the 
patient  moved  as  quickly  as  his  physical  condition  permits  to  a  definitive  hospital 
for  the  major  portion  of  his  treatment  and  recovery. 

The  role  of  Veterans  Administration  hospitals  must  be  better  defined.  When 
designated  as  specialized  treatment  centers,  they  must  be  staffed  and  supported  ac¬ 
cordingly.  Transfer  of  casualties  to  the  Veterans  Administration  system  should  not 
inflict  financial  or  retirement  penalties  on  the  wounded  man. 

We  must  examine  the  role  of  surgical  residency  programs  during  wartime,  bal¬ 
ancing  their  advantages  and  disadvantages  to  both  the  individual  patient  and  the 
Medical  Corps  as  a  whole.  Modifications  of  residency  training  may  be  necessary,  and 
a  better  liaison  with  the  surgical  specialty  accreditation  boards  would  be  in  order. 

Hospital  commanders  should  be  charged  with  the  indoctrination  of  all  medical 
officers  in  their  hospitals  in  rehabilitative  responsibilities  and  in  the  need  for  com¬ 
munication  between  physician  and  patient  to  improve  patient  education  and  orien¬ 
tation  about  his  injury  and  its  prognosis  for  functional  recovery.  The  entire  hospital 
must  be  geared  to  this  effort,  not  merely  the  orthopedic  service,  as  was  generally 
the  case  during  the  Korean  and  Vietnam  Wars. 

Leave  policies  for  the  convalescent  patient  should  be  tailored  to  his  rehabilitative 
program  and  progress;  hospital  commanders  should  be  given  relative  immunity  from 
congressional  pressure  to  implement  this  policy.  Periods  of  home  leave  of  more  than 
two  weeks  should  be  discouraged  except  for  exceptional  reasons  of  compassion. 

The  recreational  rehabilitative  techniques  developed  during  the  Vietnam  War 
should  be  examined,  improved,  enlarged,  and  implemented.  Rehabilitation  teams 
of  surgeons,  psychiatrists,  vocational  guidance  counselors,  and,  in  some  instances, 
members  of  the  patient’s  family  could  be  formed  to  stimulate  and  catalyze  the  pa¬ 
tient's  return  to  useful  function.  Sound  medical  care  combined  with  good  doctor-pa¬ 
tient  communication  and  an  overall  interest  by  our  government  in  the  ultimate  out¬ 
come  would  serve  to  motivate  the  majority  of  war  wounded  to  make  the  most  of 
what  the  vagaries  of  war  have  left  to  them. 

REFERENCE 

Brown,  P.  W.  1970.  Rehabilitation  of  bilateral  lower-extremity  amputees.  J.  Bone 

Joint  Surg.  52:687-700. 


■ 


10 


Epilogue 

General  Thoughts  on  the 
Management  of  Orthopedic  Casualties 


Colonel  William  E.  Burkhalter,  MC,  USA  (Ret.) 


LESSONS  LEARNED  AND  UNLEARNED 

In  the  Vietnam  War,  perhaps  as  in  no  other  conflict,  wound  exploration,  debride¬ 
ment,  and  avoidance  of  primary  closure  became  the  uniform  approach  to  wound 
management.  As  a  result,  the  infection  rate  was  low  and  cases  of  gas  gangrene  few. 
Staffing  the  first  hospitals  deployed  to  Vietnam  by  Regular  Army  officers  with  some 
experience  or  training  in  the  management  of  combat  casualties  was  a  major  factor  in 
eliminating  any  need  to  relearn,  once  again,  forgotten  lessons  from  previous  wars 
concerning  wound  debridement  and  the  necessity  for  leaving  wounds  open  to  drain. 

Debridement  as  an  operative  procedure  was  not  easily  learned,  however.  The 
surgeon  had  to  have  the  courage  to  make  the  liberal  longitudinal  incisions  and  the 
wide  excisions  of  the  fascia  necessary  to  expose  muscular  compartments  as  well  as 
an  intimate  knowledge  of  anatomy  so  that  he  would  not  damage  undamaged  struc¬ 
tures.  Although  his  lack  of  experience  in  wound  debridement  might  have  resulted 
in  a  less  than  optimally  debrided  wound,  delayed  primary  closure  allowed  surgeons 
to  reexamine  and  redebride  the  wound  in  a  few  days,  thus  avoiding  the  problems  of 
frank  sepsis  with  secondary  tissue  loss. 

An  integral  part  of  appropriate  debridement  is  fasciotomy  or  fasciectomy.  Fas- 
ciotomy  may  involve  the  investing  fascia  of  the  foot,  leg,  thigh,  forearm,  or  intrinsic 
muscles  of  the  hand.  It  allows  exposure  of  muscle  compartments  with  their  subse¬ 
quent  decompression.  The  injuries  resulting  from  certain  high-velocity  missiles  re¬ 
quired  extensive  exploration  and  decompression  of  all  muscle  compartments  to 
protect  the  muscles  and  adjacent  nerves  from  increased  compartmental  pressure 
and  relative  ischemia.  Similar  elevated  compartment  pressures  might  follow  venous 
injury,  especially  injury  to  the  popliteal  vein,  or  a  delay  in  vascular  repairs  proximal 
to  the  compartment,  or  crush  injuries  of  the  extremity.  Fasciotomy  in  these  cases 
was  in  some  instances  limb-saving. 

The  need  for  careful  debridement  was  not  eliminated  by  the  antibiotics  univer¬ 
sally  used  after  wounding  in  Vietnam.  Penicillin,  alone  or  in  combination  with  strep¬ 
tomycin  or  chloramphenicol,  was  the  usual  agent.  It  was  administered,  usually  intra¬ 
venously,  for  three  to  five  days  in  uncomplicated  cases  or  for  as  long  as  several  weeks 
in  more  complicated  ones.  Our  concern  about  managing  gram-positive  organisms 


212 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


may  have  caused  some  of  our  difficulty  with  gram-negative  infections  in  offshore 
hospitals.  The  use  of  penicillin  alone  in  orthopedic  casualties  without  gastrointesti¬ 
nal  soilage  seemed  to  avoid  those  superinfection  gram-negative  problems;  it  pro¬ 
tected  against  Clostridia  and  beta-hemolytic  streptococcal  infection.  As  the  war  pro¬ 
gressed,  the  initial  antibiotic  treatments  seemed  useful,  but  we  learned  that  repeated 
cultures  should  be  used  in  deciding  which  specific  antibiotics  to  use.  Prolonged  treat¬ 
ment,  however,  was  unnecessary  and  frequently  the  source  of  problems. 

As  the  war  proceeded,  the  emphasis  shifted  from  concern  about  type  and  duration 
of  antibiotic  to  concern  about  individual  wound  management  and  the  adequacy  of  in¬ 
dividual  debridements.  In  spite  of  the  use  of  antibiotics,  attempts  to  use  delayed  pri¬ 
mary  wound  closure  in  all  wounds  in  Vietnam  produced  some  disastrous  results.  De¬ 
layed  primary  closure  had  been  emphasized  during  World  War  II  and  the  Korean  War, 
when  it  was  commonly  used  in  extremity  wounds,  including  those  injuries  with  associ¬ 
ated  fractures  and  joint  injuries.  But  wounds  created  by  the  high-velocity  missiles  fired 
in  Vietnam  often  resulted  in  considerable  tissue  disruption.  The  temporary  and  per¬ 
manent  cavity  phenomenon  in  the  limb  was  well  known,  and  debridement  of  damaged 
tissue  created  a  larger  permanent  cavity  within  the  extremity.  In  the  femoral  shaft  frac¬ 
ture,  skeletal  traction  maintained  the  dead  space  in  the  thigh.  Under  these  circum¬ 
stances,  wound  closure  and  minimal  drainage  created  the  milieu  for  wound  break¬ 
down.  Attempts  at  delayed  primary  closure  in  high-velocity  wounds  of  the  thigh  were 
fraught  with  an  extremely  high  complication  rate.  Attempts  to  perform  delayed  pri¬ 
mary  closure  on  injuries  of  the  leg  with  associated  fracture  of  the  tibia  also  resulted  in 
wound  breakdown.  The  skin  of  the  anterior  aspect  of  the  leg  tolerates  tension  poorly. 
With  minimal  skin  loss  and  swelling  secondary  to  fracture,  tension  closures  were  com¬ 
mon.  The  skin  responded  with  necrosis  and  subsequent  sepsis.  Relaxing  incisions  were 
also  associated  with  considerable  skin  breakdown  and  subsequent  tissue  loss. 

As  a  result,  surgeons  managing  patients  in  the  offshore  hospitals  and  in  CONUS 
(continental  United  States)  became  disenchanted  with  the  technique  of  delayed  pri¬ 
mary  closure  in  high-velocity  wounds  of  the  extremity.  They  realized  that,  even  though 
several  operative  procedures  had  been  performed  to  ensure  adequate  debridement, 
wound  closure  was  not  a  mandatory  next  step.  When  wounds  were  encased  in  air-occlu¬ 
sive  dressings  and  both  drainage  and  antibiotics  were  recognized  as  necessary  compo¬ 
nents  of  therapy,  closure  became  an  elective  procedure  that  could  be  performed  when 
and  if  the  surgeon  concluded  that  it  was  indicated,  rather  than  at  any  specific  time. 

Largely  because  of  Dehne  s  teaching  that  function  aids  wound  healing  and  frac¬ 
ture  union,  early  functional  use  of  the  limb  in  the  wounded  patient  was  emphasized. 
It  was  not  to  be  delayed  because  of  wound  closure,  reconstructive  procedures,  or 
prolonged  debility  of  parts  or  of  the  whole  patient.  Anything  technical  that  com¬ 
promised  early  functional  recovery  was  believed  to  be  unimportant  and  a  deterrent 
to  total  patient  rehabilitation.  This  was  exemplified  in  the  management  of  the  open 
tibia  fracture  with  the  walking  cast  and  of  open  comminuted  fractures  of  the 
femoral  shaft  with  the  cast  brace.  The  lower  extremity  amputee  was  ambulated 
with  an  open  stump  in  a  temporary  plaster  socket  with  foot  extension.  Wound  heal¬ 
ing  by  secondary  intention  was  accepted  in  the  upper  and  lower  extremities,  includ¬ 
ing  the  hand,  so  long  as  early  functional  use  could  be  instituted  to  the  injured  part. 
This  emphasis  on  functional  recovery  in  the  care  of  the  femoral  shaft  fracture,  for 
instance,  reduced  the  patients  time  at  full  bed  rest  from  months  to  a  few  weeks. 


EPILOGUE 


213 


COMMUNICATION  AND  CONSULTANTS 

Orthopedic  surgery  in  wartime  deals  with  large  numbers  of  casualties  who,  by  the 
nature  of  their  injuries,  require  weeks  or  months  of  continuing  care  and  rehabilita¬ 
tion.  The  interchange  of  information  between  the  initial  treating  physician  in  Viet¬ 
nam  and  the  receiving  physicians  in  CONUS  was  vital  for  optimal  care.  But  orthope¬ 
dics,  as  a  subunit  under  surgery  in  the  U.S.  Army  administrative  system,  had  no  way 
of  direct  information  exchange  among  orthopedic  elements  in  Vietnam,  the  offshore 
hospitals,  and  CONUS.  Although  orthopedic  surgeons  in  the  United  States  were  con¬ 
stantly  trying  to  get  information  to  surgeons  in  the  Republic  of  Vietnam  about  prob¬ 
lem  areas,  and  orthopedic  surgeons  in  Vietnam  were  interested  in  the  follow-up  treat¬ 
ment  and  progress  of  the  patients,  communication  of  this  information  was  difficult. 

The  information  and  recommendations  generated  during  the  Vietnam  War  by 
five  surgical  conferences  on  management  of  battle  casualties  held  at  various  sites  in 
the  Pacific  also  circulated  very  slowly.  These  conferences  were  attended  by  physi¬ 
cians  from  Pacific  Command,  Vietnam,  and  CONUS,  from  all  three  services,  but 
few  of  their  conclusions  about  the  initial  and  early  management  of  battle-wounded 
patients  affected  the  treating  physicians  in  Vietnam,  probably  because  of  the  lack  of 
a  full-time,  traveling  orthopedic  consultant  with  the  authority  to  effect  administra¬ 
tive  or  professional  changes  in  the  Republic  of  Vietnam.  During  their  entire  year  in 
the  country,  many  orthopedic  surgeons  never  saw  another  orthopedist,  except  the 
ones  with  whom  they  were  assigned. 

We  strongly  recommend  that  in  future  conflicts,  full-time  traveling  orthopedic 
consultants  be  available  at  all  echelons  with  autonomous  authority  for  administrative 
changes.  Having  orthopedic  consultants  in  the  forward  area,  offshore,  and  in  CONUS 
would  allow  ready  exchange  of  information  and  better  assessment  of  management 
options.  To  have  a  consultant  whose  primary  interests  and  training  are  in  fields  other 
than  orthopedics  to  act  as  an  orthopedic  consultant  is  counterproductive,  dangerous, 
and  not  conducive  to  the  free  flow  of  information  or  interchange  of  ideas. 

CONTINUITY  OF  CARE  AND  REHABILITATION 

Since  in  wartime  a  single  patient  may  be  treated  by  different  physicians  before 
arriving  at  a  definitive  treating  hospital,  chronological  medical  information  about 
what  has  transpired  during  the  transfer  is  important.  But  if  you  mention  medical 
records  and  their  administration  to  any  combat  physician  who  served  in  Vietnam,  his 
discomfort  index  immediately  goes  up.  In  many  instances,  lack  of  an  adequate  clini¬ 
cal  record  made  patient  management  a  severe  problem.  The  medical  record  for  the 
patient  repeatedly  transferred  from  one  facility  to  another  usually  contained  consid¬ 
erable  administrative  data  repeated  over  and  over  but  very  little  medical  informa¬ 
tion.  We  believe  that  some  type  of  electronic  cassette  recorder  should  be  placed  into 
the  evacuation  system  on  which  comments  can  be  made  and  from  which  the  infor¬ 
mation  can  be  retrieved  about  what  has  happened  previously  to  the  patient.  The  cas¬ 
sette,  designated  for  medical  information  only,  would  have  no  erasure  button.  It 
could  easily  accompany  the  patient  like  a  dog  tag  around  his  neck,  making  the  infor¬ 
mation  constantly  available  along  the  evacuation  chain.  By  using  the  cassette,  the 


214 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


status  of  a  peripheral  nerve  injury  at  the  time  of  debridement  in  Vietnam,  for  exam¬ 
ple,  could  be  immediately  available  to  the  physician  treating  the  patient  in  CONUS. 
Standardization  of  playback  capability  is  needed.  Such  a  system  would  certainly  re¬ 
sult  in  a  more  complete  medical  record  and  eliminate  poor  penmanship  as  a  factor. 

Once  a  patient  reached  the  definitive  hospital  in  CONUS,  the  question  arose  as 
to  whether  this  was  really  the  definitive  hospital  for  him.  Was  this  hospital  responsi¬ 
ble  for  his  long-term  rehabilitation,  both  physical  and  psychological?  Was  this  hos¬ 
pital  capable  of  managing  all  his  needs  until  discharge  from  the  service  or  return  to 
duty?  These  questions  were  but  some  of  those  related  to  the  administrative  aspects 
of  the  patients’  injuries  that  concerned  all  orthopedic  surgeons  treating  long-term, 
severely  injured  patients.  Throughout  the  entire  war,  the  problem  of  hospital  re¬ 
sponsibility  was  never  resolved. 

Two  types  of  Army  units  and  the  Veterans  Administration  system  were  in  the 
group  of  definitive  hospitals  that  cared  for  the  wounded  who  faced  long  hospitaliza¬ 
tion.  The  military  system  had  a  Class  I  or  station  hospital  and  Class  II  or  general  or 
teaching  hospital.  The  Veterans  Administration  also  had  hospitals  throughout  the 
country  that  varied  considerably  in  their  individual  capabilities.  In  the  administra¬ 
tion  of  the  evacuation  system,  orthopedic  patients  were  initially  sent  to  a  military 
hospital  close  to  their  home.  This  could  be  a  Class  I  or  Class  II  hospital  with  an  or¬ 
thopedic  service  and  a  physical  therapist. 

Col.  Raymond  Bagg  has  pointed  out  that  patients  who  have  no  chance  of  re¬ 
turning  to  active  duty  should  be  rapidly  separated  from  the  service.  He  advocated 
that  this  separation  be  accomplished  as  soon  as  possible  because  of  the  financial 
loss  to  the  patient.  For  instance,  a  PFC  U.S.M.C.  with  a  bilateral  above-knee  ampu¬ 
tation  would  not  be  capable  of  being  returned  to  duty.  In  this  case  total  CONUS 
hospitalization  could  amount  to  six  to  seven  months.  Veterans  Administration  com¬ 
pensation  would  amount  to  $638  per  month  during  the  Vietnam  War,  while  active 
duty  pay  during  the  same  time  would  be  $180  per  month.  This  pay  differential 
amounts  to  about  $3,092  for  over  six  months  of  hospitalization. 

Based  on  finances  alone,  certainly  early  separation  is  indicated.  However,  if  this 
change  from  military  to  civilian  status  changes  rehabilitation  relationships  or  goals 
or  results  in  administrative  transfer,  greater  loss  may  result  in  the  future.  Severely 
injured  patients  need  all  the  support  we  can  provide  since  they  are  relatively  fragile 
for  a  considerable  time  after  a  combat-related  injury.  Administrative  changes  that 
increase  financial  reward  but  also  increase  instability  may  be  counterproductive.  In¬ 
discriminate  and  repeated  transferring  of  patients  with  changes  of  physician  and 
therapist  after  the  vital  process  of  rehabilitation  has  been  instituted  reduces  its  ef¬ 
fectiveness.  As  soon  as  the  patient’s  physical  condition  allows,  he  should  be  sent  to 
a  specialized  treatment  center  for  definitive  care. 

The  Army’s  Class  I  hospitals  were  frequently  staffed  by  physicians  who  were  in 
military  service  for  only  two  years.  Most  of  these  physicians  had  one  year  in  the  Re¬ 
public  of  Vietnam  and  then  one  year  in  a  Class  I  hospital,  or  vice  versa.  The  pres¬ 
ence  of  an  orthopedic  surgeon  for  only  one  year  in  the  management  of  complex  or¬ 
thopedic  injuries  injected  dissimilarities  in  training,  lack  of  experience,  and  limited 
continuity  of  care  into  the  situation.  These  men,  although  fully  trained,  Board-certi- 
lied  and  Board-qualified,  were  caring  for  complicated  cases  in  a  relatively  isolated 
system  with  only  minimal  experience. 


EPILOGUE 


215 


The  Class  II  hospitals  were  adequately  staffed  with  medical  and  paramedical  in¬ 
dividuals  but  had  limited  beds  and  holding  facilities.  In  addition,  they  were  unable 
to  receive,  treat,  and  completely  rehabilitate  all  the  orthopedic  casualties  from 
Vietnam.  Thus  there  were  frequent  transfers  of  patients  from  Class  I  to  Class  II 
hospitals  and  from  Class  II  medical  centers  to  the  Veterans  Administration  system 
in  a  haphazard  fashion  based  on  administrative  requirements.  The  transfer  usually 
occurred  in  the  middle  of  the  rehabilitative  process  and  was  dictated  by  bed  re¬ 
quirements,  transfer  or  discharge  of  medical  or  paramedical  personnel,  or  the  pol¬ 
icy  to  get  the  patient  as  close  to  his  home  as  possible.  These  transfers  interfered 
with  rehabilitation,  introduced  a  new  treating  team  to  the  patient,  and  frequently 
changed  the  rehabilitative  goals. 

In  any  decision  concerning  rehabilitation  of  orthopedic  patients,  occupational 
and  physical  therapists  are  essential.  In  most  military  hospitals  the  occupational 
therapist  became  an  upper  extremity  therapist,  while  a  physical  therapist  concen¬ 
trated  on  the  lower  limb.  These  two  groups  were  involved,  daily  or  several  times 
daily,  in  the  treatment  of  each  patient.  These  were  the  individuals  who  implemented 
and  modified  the  early  functional  use  of  the  damaged  limb  concept  mentioned  previ¬ 
ously.  The  physical  therapists  were  directly  concerned  with  the  lower  extremity  am¬ 
putee  from  early  ambulation  in  the  plaster-of-Paris  socket  to  wound  closure  to 
definitive  prosthesis.  In  the  patient  with  the  cast  brace  for  femoral  shaft  fracture  gait 
training,  muscle  training  and  encouragement  were  required.  The  occupational  thera¬ 
pists  were  concerned  with  training  the  patients  in  the  activities  of  daily  living,  with 
peripheral  nerve  testing,  and  with  early  prosthetic  training  of  the  upper  extremity 
amputee.  In  addition,  they  fabricated  splints,  tested  patients,  and  helped  patients 
with  peripheral  nerve  injuries  reeducate  their  upper  extremities  to  perform  volun¬ 
tary  motion  effectively.  Such  activities  were  carried  out  not  just  in  CONUS  but  in  the 
Republic  of  Vietnam  and  in  offshore  hospitals  as  well.  These  innovative,  interested, 
intelligent  individuals  were  of  immense  value  to  both  patient  and  physician,  and  dis¬ 
ruption  of  the  relationship  they  had  developed  with  the  individual  patient  and  of  the 
course  of  rehabilitation  that  they  had  started  with  him  was  harmful  to  his  progress. 

The  lack  of  continuity  and  its  adverse  effects  upon  rehabilitation  were  a  serious 
medical  problem  throughout  the  war  in  Vietnam.  The  role  of  patient  rehabilitation  in 
the  recovery  process  requires  further  study  and  better  application.  To  avoid  the  pro¬ 
fessional  problems  that  I  have  mentioned,  we  recommend  the  development  of  the 
professional  center  concept  as  it  existed  in  World  War  II.  Because  they  would  be 
staffed  by  medical,  paramedical,  and  rehabilitative  personnel,  these  professional  cen¬ 
ters  could  become  definitive  care  centers  in  CONUS  to  manage  patients  completely 
from  reception  from  overseas  to  definitive  disposition.  Whether  the  center  is  a  U.S. 
Army  hospital  or  a  Veterans  Administration  hospital  makes  little  difference.  That  is 
an  administrative  decision.  But  this  approach  would  eliminate  the  indiscriminate 
transfer  of  a  combat-wounded  soldier  from  hospital  to  hospital  and  team  to  team,  re¬ 
ducing  his  motivation  and  negatively  affecting  the  entire  rehabilitative  process. 

The  dispersion  of  orthopedic  patients  throughout  CONUS  complicated  even  col¬ 
lecting  the  comprehensive  data  needed  to  study  the  care  and  rehabilitation  of  ortho¬ 
pedic  patients,  always  difficult  in  wartime.  When  the  group  of  orthopedic  surgeons 
was  brought  together  in  1972  to  write  this  history,  we  knew  it  would  be  an  immense 
undertaking,  not  merely  because  of  the  sheer  number  of  words  but  because  of  our 


216 


ORTHOPEDIC  SURGERY  IN  VIETNAM 


desire  to  write  a  history  useful  for  orthopedic  surgeons  in  the  day-to-day  practice. 
Our  statements  and  conclusions  had  to  be  supported  by  scientific  data,  but,  because 
of  the  difficulty  of  retrieving  the  information  we  needed,  most  of  the  clinical  data  in 
the  chapters  came  from  records  collected  by  individual  authors  rather  than  from  a 
central  retrieval  system.  The  establishment  of  centers  for  hand,  peripheral  nerve, 
amputee,  and  other  medical  problems  in  significant  numbers  would  make  it  possible 
in  the  future  to  collect  data  and  alter  treatment  modalities  on  the  basis  of  past  expe¬ 
rience.  A  center  concept  for  complex  orthopedic  injuries  is  essential  if  usable  man¬ 
agement  options  are  to  be  learned  in  future  wars.  So  long  as  these  complex  orthope¬ 
dic  cases  are  widely  dispersed,  clinical  data  retrieval  will  be,  at  best,  haphazard. 

This  chapter  has  covered  in  a  general  way  the  practice  of  orthopedics  during  the 
era  of  the  war  in  Vietnam.  It  contains  lessons  learned,  lessons  relearned,  and  some 
lessons  that  we  believe  should  be  forgotten.  In  addition,  it  mirrors  our  frustrations 
regarding  dissemination  of  professional  orthopedic  information  within  the  evacua¬ 
tion  system  and  our  immense  concern  for  our  patients  and  their  total  rehabilitation. 
Our  recommendations  to  improve  the  system  are  made  because  of  this  concern  and 
our  desire  to  improve  patient  care. 


INDEX 


A-rations,  3 
Ablation,  36,  97,  131 
Achilles  tendon,  90 
Air  conditioning 

help  in  care  of  wounded,  17 
in  surgical  suites,  2,  4 
Ambulation 

after  amputation,  137,  141^42,  147-48,  150 
in  CONUS,  30-32,  36 
examples  of,  86-87,  93,  97,  101 
after  leg  fractures,  44-47,  52 
American  Orthopedic  Association,  126 
American  soldier,  condition  of,  3, 17,  21 
Amputation 
causes  of,  8, 131 
incidence  of,  28,  36,  131-32 
with  leg  fractures,  39,  41,  43 
management  of  patients,  132-34,  136-37, 190 
problems  of  transfers,  190 
recommendations,  151-52 
treatment  in  CONUS  hospitals,  192-93 
with  wounds  of  the  foot,  85-87,  137 
hindfoot,  93-94,  96 
midfoot,  97-98 
toe,  100-102 

with  wounds  of  the  hand.  64 
with  wounds  of  the  knee,  146-47 
Amputation  types 

Chopart  amputation,  97-98-105,  138,  149 
elbow 

above  elbow,  146 
below  elbow,  144-46 
Ertl-type  revision,  141,  148,  151 
foot,  137-38 
hand  and  wrist,  144 
knee 

above  knee,  133,  143^44,  147 
below  knee,  133,  139,  1 42^43,  146-47 
Lisfranc  amputation,  138,  144 
Syme’s  amputation,  97-98,  100,  105,  133, 
137-39,  1 48 — 49 
Amputees 

recommendations  for,  207-09,  212 
rehabilitation  of,  190-91,  196-97 
sports  for 

riding,  204-05 
skiing,  198-203 
swimming,  203-04 

treatment  of,  132-33,  136-37, 146-48,  150-52 
Anastomoses,  168, 170 
Anatomy,  knowledge  of,  23 


Anesthesia 
induction  of,  5,  126 
during  operations,  113,  122,  124-25 
Angulation,  30-31 
Ankylosis,  114,  118-19 
Antibiotics 
effects  of,  10-12 
supplementary  use,  35-36,  40 
use  of,  211-12 

use  with  joint  wounds,  107,  1 10-1 1,  1 15 
use  with  puncture  wounds,  90-91 
Arapahoe  Ski  Basin,  Colorado,  198,  201 
Army  medical  centers,  171, 178-80.  See  also 
United  States  Army  hospitals. 

Army  of  the  Republic  of  Vietnam,  wounds  in,  7-8 

Arterial  bleeding,  133 

Arteries/blood  supply,  90-91,  93,  96 

Arthrodesis,  77,  80,  123, 125-27, 129 

Arthroplasty,  101,  126 

Arthrotomy,  107,  110-11,  114,  119,  121 

Bacterial  flora,  9,  11 
Bamboo  stakes,  effects  of,  87-88 
Blair,  Col.  John  D..  56 
Blast  injuries,  5,  43 
Blood  transfusions,  3-5,  40 
Bone  grafting,  47,  52 
with  wounds  of  foot,  85 
with  wounds  of  hand,  69,  72,  77 
Bone  loss 

with  leg  injuries,  47,  52 
with  wounds  of  the  hand,  63,  72 
Booby  traps,  7,  131,  133 
Brooke  Army  Medical  Center,  San  Antonio, 
Texas 

results  from  wounds  of  femur,  31-32 
results  from  wounds  of  foot,  98, 100 
results  from  wounds  of  leg  (tibia),  46-47 
techniques,  180 
tests  for  sensibility,  178 

treatment  of  nerve  injuries  at,  157, 160-61, 171, 
176 

Brown,  Col.  Paul  W.,  182 
Bunnell,  Dr.  Sterling,  55-56 

Calcaneus  with  wounds  of  the  foot,  85-87,  90-91, 
93 

Capsule  joint  wounds,  112-13,  121-22 
Casts 

bivalving  of,  43-45 
cast  brace,  30-32,  35-36 


218 


INDEX 


Casts — Continued 

long  leg  cast,  44^16,  52 
short  leg  cast,  45-46,  52 
spica  cast,  26-27,  29,  31,  133 
use  of,  112-13, 133 
Casualties,  1 

Catheters,  3-4,  11, 107,  122;  in  cases  of  causalgia, 
160-61 

Causalgia,  28,  156 
history  and  incidence  of,  158-59 
treatment  of,  158-61 
Cavitation,  7-8 

Chemical  blocks,  in  treatment  of  causalgia,  159-60 
CINCPAC  Surgical  Conferences,  12,  110-11,  125, 
134 

Clark  Field,  U.S.  Air  Force  Base,  Philippines,  2, 
6,9 

Cellular  necrosis,  5.  See  also  Necrosis. 
Communition,  63,  69,  91 
Communications,  3 

problems  concerning  injuries.  44,  155,  213-14 
problems  concerning  treatment,  196,  207-08 
Compartment  syndromes,  41 .  See  also  Fractures 
of  the  femur;  Fractures  of  the  tibia. 
Complications  of  wounds,  44,  47 
Contamination,  as  factor  in  healing,  13,  35,  40,  60, 
84-85,  105 

CONUS  (continental  United  States),  1-2,  6,  9, 
212-14 

evacuation  of  patients  to,  27,  29 
rehabilitation  of  patients,  1 13,  121-22,  191-94 
treatment  of  amputees,  132, 136,  139,  142, 
150-51,  192 
Convalescence,  5-6 
Curtis,  Dr.  Raymond  M.,  56,  179-80 

Debridement 

after  amputation,  138,  142,  144,  149-50,  152 
with  femoral  fractures,  22-23,  26,  28-29,  32,  35 
as  general  technique,  211-12 
history  of,  6 

use  in  Vietnam,  8,  9, 13 
use  in  World  War  II,  10,  22,  39 
with  vascular/nerve  injuries,  155-56,  166 
after  wounding,  131-34 
with  wounds  of  the  foot,  83-85,  87,  90-91,  94, 
101, 102,  105 

with  wounds  of  the  hand,  60,  63,  67, 69,  72,  80 
with  wounds  of  the  joints,  107,  110-1 1 
hip,  121-23 
knee,  112,  114,  118 
shoulder,  123-25 

with  wounds  of  the  leg,  41,  43,  46,  52 
Dehydration,  3,  1 12,  134 
Delayed  primary  closure 
after  amputations,  133-34,  136, 139,  144,  150-51 


Delayed  primary  closure — Continued 
difficulties  with,  in 
foot  injuries,  86 
hand  wounds,  64, 67 
joint  wounds,  1 10,  1 13,  125 
leg  injuries,  39^10,  43-44 
nerve  injuries,  166 
thigh  wounds,  26,  29 
technique  of,  6 

use  in  Vietnam,  22 
use  in  World  War  II.  21-22,  39-40 
wound  management,  211-12 
Deltopectoral  flap,  69 
Desault,  Pierre  Joseph,  6 
Desensitization  techniques,  165 
Diarrhea,  3 

Dirt,  as  factor  in  infection,  7 
Dislocations 

basilar  thumb  joint,  60,  63 
carpometacarpal,  60,  63,  72 
intermetacarpal,  60 
metacarpophalangeal  joint,  72,  77 
Disseminated  intravascular  coagulopathy  (DIC),  5 
Distal  blood  flow,  26,  28,  36,  132 
Dorsum/dorsalis  pedis,  96-97 
Drainage  of  wounds,  10-1 1 
excessive  drainage,  26,  35 
with  fractures  of  femur,  21 
with  hip  wounds,  122 
improved  with  cast  brace,  30 
with  shoulder  wounds,  125 
with  thigh  wounds,  28 
Dressings,  60,  85 

“Dust  Off”(medical  evacuations),  3 

Effectiveness  of  medical  treatment,  7-8 
Elevation  of  extremities,  23,  60,  63 
Endemic  disease,  1 

Evacuation  from  combat  areas,  2-3,  8-9 
to  CONUS,  26 

to  hospitals,  40,  44,  112,  125,  131-34,  136,  151 
priority  and  procedure,  27,  29,  63,  67,  80 
problems  of,  190-91 
Excision  of  tendons,  72,  76 

Fascia,  8 

excisions  of,  28,  40-41, 60,  124 
incisions,  40-41 
Fascial  decompression,  41, 43 
Fascicles,  183 

Fasciectomy/fasciotomy,  8,  10,  211 
Fat  embolism,  5 
Feagin,  Maj.  John,  110-1 1 
Femoral  artery,  23,  26 

Femoral  fractures.  See  Fractures  of  the  femur. 
Fibula.  See  Fractures  of  the  tibia. 


INDEX 


219 


Field  dressings,  3 

Fitzsimons  General  Hospital,  Denver,  Colorado 
follow-up  study  at,  182 

rehabilitation  and  treatment  of  amputees,  132, 
138-39,  141-42,  146-48,  189,  192 
use  of  sports  in  treatment,  198,  202-06 
treatment  of  wounds  at: 

femoral  shaft  fractures,  31 
hindfoot  wounds,  94,  96 
hip  joint  wounds,  122 
knee  wounds,  1 13—15 
midfoot  wounds,  97-98,  100 
nerve  injuries,  157 
neurolysis,  165 
shoulder  wounds,  127,  129 
toe  wounds,  102 
Fixation  of  fractures 
foot  wounds,  85,  101 
hand  wounds,  63,  72,  77 
with  Kirschner  wires,  63-64,  73,  77,  97 
with  Steinman  pin,  26-27,  31-32,  39,  1 13,  125 
Flexion,  167,  171,  184-85 
Foot  wounds,  102-03,  105.  See  also  Amputation; 

Debridement;  Fitzsimons  General  Hospital. 
Fracture  management 
in  Vietnam,  22,  32,  36 
in  World  War  11,22 
Fractures,  5-7,  9,  27-28 
Fractures  of  the  femur 

breakdown  and  bone  loss,  29,  32 
hip  wounds,  123,  133 
history  of  treatment,  21,  27-28 
serious  nature  of,  21,  27 
treatment  of,  21, 26-28,  30-31 
Fractures  of  the  tibia 
history  of  treatment,  3940 
incidence  of,  3940,  4345 
nature  of  wounds,  28,  39 
use  of  cast  brace,  30 

Gaenslen  incision,  91 
Ganglion  blocks,  161 
Gangrene,  12,  16 
Grafting 

bone  grafts,  47,  52,  69,  72,  77,  85 
iliac  grafts,  72,  127 
nerve  grafts,  167,  169-70,  184 
technique  of,  9-10 

tendon  grafts,  77,  171 .  See  also  Bone  grafting; 
Nerve  injuries. 

Gram-negative  and  positive  organisms,  36 
Granulation,  1 18 
Grenades,  133 

Hall,  Col.  Robert  M..  1 1 

Hampton,  Dr.  Oscar  P.,  Jr.,  32,  39,  43,  93-94,  134 


Hand  splints,  60.  See  also  Splinting  devices. 
Hawaii,  110,  112 

Heaton,  Lt.  Gen.  Leonard  D.,  56 

Helicopter,  1,3,  17 

Hematocrit,  44 

Hemorrhagic  shock,  5 

Hemostasis,  60,  84-85 

High-velocity  wounding  agents,  7-8,  40 

Hindfoot  wounds,  90-92.  See  also  Debridement. 

Hip  wounds 

involvement  of  femoral  head  (blood  supply), 
119, 121-23 

morbidity/mortality,  119,  122-23 
treatment  of,  121-23 
Hospitals 

Classes  I  and  II,  214-15 
equipment  and  strengths,  1-3 
locations 

in  CONUS,  6,  27, 65-69,  80,  85 
off-shore,  67-69 
Hypoxemia,  4-5 

Ilium,  122-23 
Immersion  foot,  16 
Immobilization 
of  joint  wounds,  107,  110,  113 
of  limbs,  6,  26,  3940,  77 
Implants,  76-77 
Incisions 
amputations,  133 
foot  wounds,  91,  93,  96, 102, 105 
hand  wounds,  60 
joint  wounds,  121-22,  124 
Infection,  incidence  of,  212 
foot  wounds,  83,  88,  90,  93,  102 
hip  wounds,  121-23 
joint  wounds,  107,  110, 113-15, 118-19 
shoulder  wounds,  124,  129 
Intra-articular  drains,  107,  112,  118 
Intra-articular  fractures,  107,  112-15,  118,  129 
Intramedullary  nailing,  32,  35 
Intravenous  fluids,  40 
Irrigation  of  wounds,  2,  28,  88,  107 

Japan 

convalescence  in,  2,  6,  9 
hospitals  in,  4546,  1 1 1-12, 191 
Jet  lavage,  1 

John  Hay  Air  Base,  Philippines,  110 

Joint  wounds,  history  of  treatment,  107,  110-11 

Jump,  Larry,  198 

Kirschner  wires,  use  of,  63-64,  73,  77,  97,  101,  1 13, 
121,  138.  See  also  Fixation  of  fractures. 

Knee  wounds 
causes  of,  1 13-15,  118 


220 


INDEX 


Knee  wounds — Continued 
closed  injuries,  111-13 
hematogenous  arthritis,  118-19 
open  wounds,  111-12 
pyogenic  arthritis,  118-19 

Lacertus  fibrosis,  8 
Lactic  dehydrogenase  (LDH),  5 
Laparatomy,  5 
Lavage,  1,  8,  85 

Leg,  penetrating  wounds  of,  39^10 
Letterman  Army  Medical  Center,  San  Francisco, 
47. 56 

Littler.  Dr.  J.  William,  56 
Long  leg  cast.  See  Casts. 

Lucks,  Edwin.  198.  202,  205 

M16  rifle,  8 
Malaria,  1 
Mandelamine,  12 

Medical  Civic  Action  Program  (MEDCAP),  16-17 

Medical  Corps.  192,  209 

Medical  discharge,  136-37 

Melioidosis,  13,  16 

Metabolism.  5 

Metz,  Lt.  Gen.  Charles  W.,  Jr.,  56 
Microbiology,  13 
Microorganisms.  12 

Midfoot  wounds,  96-97.  See  also  Debridement; 

Fitzsimons  General  Hospital. 

Military  surgical  practices  in  U.S.  Army,  Vietnam 
(USARV),  11 

Mines,  7;  injuries  caused  by,  43, 131, 133, 149 
Missiles  as  wounding  agents,  7-8,  40 
Morbidity  rate,  39,  65,  83,  102.  105,  119,  121 
Motion,  prevention  of  loss,  69 
Motivation  after  amputation,  195,  197-98.  204-05, 
207-08.  See  also  Rehabilitation. 

Muscles.  See  specific  areas  (e.g.,  foot,  hand,  hip, 
joints). 

NATO  Emergency  War  Surgery  Handbook,  6,  9, 
11. 110, 132-33 

Necrosis,  5,  29,  41,  44,  46,  63-64.  67 
with  amputation,  138 
with  wounds  of  the  foot,  84-85.  90-91 
with  wounds  of  the  hip,  1 19,  121,  123,  212 
with  wounds  of  the  shoulder,  124-25 
Neel.  Maj.  Gen.  Spurgeon,  3,  17 
Nerve  injuries,  44 

peripheral  nerve  injuries,  statistics,  155-58, 
166-67,  174-76,  182 
specific  nerve  injuries,  182-84 
surgical  treatment  of,  168-71 
techniques  used,  167-69 
treatment  of,  156-57,  160-61,  183-86 
wounds  of  the  foot,  83,  85 


Neurolysis,  169,  183 
Neuroma,  161 
Neurorrhaphy,  166,  168 

Newton  D.  Baker  General  Hospital,  Martinsburg, 
West  Virginia,  56 
Nitrous  oxide,  1 

Nonunion  of  fractures,  32,  39,  44 
Nurses,  3,  196 
Nursing  units,  2 

106th  General  Hospital,  Yokohama.  Japan,  9.  32, 
47, 132;  experience  with  amputations,  132, 
136, 138-39 
O-positive  blood.  3 

Oakland  Naval  Hospital.  Oakland,  California.  143 
Occlusive  dressings,  6,  9,  40,  44,  1 12-13 
Occupational  therapists,  179,  215 
Omer,  George  E..  157,  168-69 
Operating  room,  3.  22-23,  40 
Orr,  Dr.  H.  Winnett,  6,  21 
Orthopedic  hand  service,  Walter  Reed,  56 
Orthopedic  surgeons 
assistance  to  civilians,  16-17 
lack  of  numbers,  2-3 

recommendations  about,  209,  213,  215-16 
responsibilities  of,  6,  8,  1 1 

care  of  hand  wounds,  56,  60 
femur/thigh.  26-27. 36 
joint  wounds,  123-24 

treatment  of  amputees,  132.  133,  136-37,  192-93 
Orthopedic  surgery  conference,  110 
Orthopedic  training,  192 
Osteomyelitis,  31.  35,  46^17,  91.  119 
Osteotomy,  35 
Oxygen,  use  of,  1,5 

PACOM  (Pacific  Command)  hospitals,  1 1-12, 

122, 126,  132,  151 

"Paddy  foot.”  See  Immersion  foot. 

Palsy,  180,  185 

Patients  in  Vietnam,  26-28 

Peacock,  Capt.  Erie  E..  Jr.,  56 

Pedicle  flaps  (abdominal),  64.  67,  69,  86-87 

Penicillin 

discovery  and  use  of,  10,  12,  1 1 1 
limitations  of,  12-13 
Penicillin-streptomycin  regimen,  12 
Phantom  pain,  165 
Philippines,  110.  112,  191 
Physiatric  methods,  190,  192-93 
Physical  modalities  (nerve  problems),  165-66 
Physical  therapists,  6,  179,  215 
Physical  therapy,  8. 166 
Plantar  area  of  foot,  88,  90-91,  102-03,  105 
Plaster  of  Paris  immobilization,  40, 43 
Pneumatic  torniquet.  60 


INDEX 


221 


Postoperative  units,  2 
Prosthesis 

after  amputations,  136,  138-39,  141-43,  146-47, 
150-51 

with  specific  injuries,  87,  123,  126,  146 
Prosthetic  devices,  146^18,  150-51,  180,  187 
Psychogenic  pain,  165 
Psychological  factors,  6,  8,  195 
Pulleys,  use  of,  76 
Pulmonary  disease,  4-5 
Puncture  wounds 
of  the  foot,  87-88,  90 
of  the  knee,  113-14 
Punji  sticks,  1 13-15 

Qui  Hua  Leprosarium,  Vietnam,  17 

Radiographs  of  wounds,  31,  39-40,  43,  60,  83,  148 
Radiological  facilities,  1,  3 
Ratio  of  killed  to  wounded,  7 
Reconstruction  of  hand,  63,  68-69 
Red  Cross  personnel,  199,  203 
Rehabilitation,  6,  36 

of  combat- wounded  amputee,  146—17,  189-92 
importance  of  motivation,  184,  191,  194-95, 

197,  203,  205,  207-08 
recommendations,  212,  214-15 
role  of  personnel  and  policy,  208-09 
sports  as  therapy,  203-06 
Rehabilitation  medicine,  189-90 
Republic  of  Vietnam,  1,  213 
Resuscitation,  3-4,  22 
Riding  as  rehabilitation,  204-06 
Ringers  lactate,  3 

Schaeffler,  Willie,  198 
Secondary  closure 
after  amputations,  139,  142,  144,  150 
after  fractures,  29,  39,  44-45 
Secondary  intention  wound  healing,  44-46,  52, 69, 
86,  90,  122,212-13 
Secondary  operative  procedure,  64 
Secondary  wound  care,  9 
Self-inflicted  wounds,  8,  100-101 
Sensory  functions 

follow-up  study  of,  182-83 
tests  of  sensibility,  178-80,  185 
Sepsis,  12-13,  26,  36,  43,  45,  47,  72,  212 
Septicema,  8 
Serum  enzymes,  4-5 
Shoulder/upper  arm  wounds 
muscle  viability,  124 
neurovascular  damage,  123-24 
treatment  of,  124-27, 129 
Skiing,  198-203.  See  also  Rehabilitation. 

Skin  flaps,  134,  138,  149-50 


Skin  grafts,  45-46 

after  amputations,  143-44,  146,  149,  151 
closure  of  wounds,  67-69 
joint  wounds,  113-14,  122,  125 
Skin  traction,  133-34, 139,  143-44,  151 
Small  arms,  7 

Soft  tissue  injuries,  26,  47,  52,  1 12 
Splinting  devices,  3,  8,  26,  29,  39—10,  113 
Splints,  39-10,  43 
amputations,  133-34 
foot  wounds,  85-86 
joint  wounds,  110, 113 
Staff  specialists,  3 
Stanek,  Dr.  William  F.,  198,  201 
Steinman  pin,  22,  26-27,  91,  1 13,  121,  138 
Streptomycin,  12 
Sulfa  crystals,  10 
Sulfamilamide  drugs,  10-11 
Surgeon  General,  4,  193,  209.  See  also  Heaton,  Lt. 
Gen.  Leonard. 

Surgeon  General’s  Office,  208-09 
Surgeons,  3-4, 12,  22,  122-23 
Surgical  procedures,  3-4 
Surgical  training,  192-93 
Sutures,  9-10,  167-68,  183-85 
Swimming,  203-04.  See  also  Rehabilitation. 
Sympathectomy,  160-61 
Syndromes,  nerve  damage 
Horner’s  syndrome,  161 
Leriche’s  posttraumatic  pain  syndrome,  158 
shoulder-arm-hand,  158 
Sudek’s  atrophy,  158 
Synovectomy,  115,  118-19 
Synovium,  11-12,  114-15 

Table  of  Organization  and  Equipment  (TO&E). 
2-3 

Talectomy,  91 

Talus  (wounds  of  the  hand),  fractures  of,  90-91 
Tarsal  wounds  of  foot,  85,  87,  93,  96-98 
Tarsus,  93 

Technicians,  enlisted,  3 
Tendon  injuries 

history  of  treatment,  72,  76 
incidence  of,  72,  77,  93, 170-71 
Tendon  transfers,  171,  174,  176-78,  184-85 
Tet  offensive,  191,  194 
Tetanus,  12,  16,  40,  90 
Therapeutic  antibiotics,  11-12, 16.  See  also 
Antibiotics. 

Thigh,  penetrating  wounds  of,  21-22,  26,  28-29 
Tibia.  See  Fractures  of  the  tibia. 

Tissue  injury,  wounds  of  the  hand,  64,  67 
Tobruk  splint,  26,  29 
Toe  wounds 
claw  toes,  101 


222 


INDEX 


Toe  wounds — Continued 

importance  of  great  toe,  100-101 
treatment  of,  98, 100-101 
Tourniquet,  40,  43 
Toxicity,  12,  43 
Traction 

with  femoral  fractures,  23,  29,  31 
with  fractures  of  tibia,  39 
Transfusions,  3,  23.  40 
Trauma,  5 

from  evacuation,  26,  29 
from  surgery,  132,  137, 144,  149 
Treatment  of  femoral  fractures,  21,  23,  27,  29 
Triage,  3.  22,  40 

Tripler  Army  Medical  Center,  Hawaii,  9, 45 
Trueta,  Joseph,  6,  9 

Union  of  fractures,  32,  44 
United  States  Army  hospitals 
85th  Evacuation  Hospital,  Qui  Nhon,  Vietnam, 
8,  110,  155 

106th  General  Hospital,  Yokohama,  Japan,  9, 
32, 47,  132,  136, 138-39 
Brooke  Army  Medical  Center,  San  Antonio, 
Texas,  31-32. 46^17,  98,  100,  157,  160-61,  171, 
176,  178,  180 

Camp  Zama,  Japan,  133,  136,  138 
Fitzsimons  General  Hospital,  Denver, 

Colorado.  See  Fitzsimons. 

Letterman  Army  Medical  Center,  San 
Francisco,  47,  56 

Newton  D.  Baker  General  Hospital, 
Martinsburg,  West  Virginia,  56 
Valley  Forge  General  Hospital,  Pennsylvania, 
11,  16,31,69,  132,  137,  141^42 
Walter  Reed  General  Hospital,  Washington, 
D.C.,  56,  80, 148,  179-80 
United  States  Army  Medical  Command,  Japan, 

27 

United  States  Army  Surgical  Research  Team,  4 

Valley  Forge  General  Hospital,  Pennsylvania,  11, 
16,  31, 69;  treatment  of  amputees  at,  132,  137. 
141-42 


Vascular  injuries 
with  amputations,  131 
with  femoral  fractures,  26,  28 
with  foot  wounds,  83-84 
repair  of,  36,  155-56 
Vascular  surgeons,  26-27 
Veterans  Administration,  182,  209,  214 
Veterans  Administration  hospitals 
history  of,  185,  190,  193 
treatment  of  amputees  at,  136-37,  141,  147 
Veterans  Administration  Prosthetics  Research 
Unit.  147 

Walter  Reed  Army  Institute  of  Research 
(WRAIR),  12 

Walter  Reed  Army  Medical  Center  (Walter  Reed 
General  Hospital),  Washington,  D.C. 
hand  and  orthopedic  service  at,  56,  80,  148, 
179-80 

War  surgical  techniques,  166,  168,  180.  183 
Weight-bearing  methods,  39—40,  46 
Whelan,  Col.  Thomas  J.,  MC,  12, 126 
Willems,  Dr.  Charles,  107 
Woolverton,  Mary,  204 
Wound  closure  and  control 
fractures  of  femur,  22,  35 
hand  wounds,  64,  67-68 
thigh  wounds,  29 

Wound  infections,  10-11,  13,  16-17,  35-36 
Wound  management,  60,  64,  68,  77,  131-32,  208, 
212 

Wounded  soldiers  in  Vietnam,  3,  16-17 
Wounding  agents,  131 
Wounds  of  the  hand 
incidence  of,  55-56 
management  of,  56,  60,  63,  184 
Wrist  injuries,  77 

X-ray  technique,  148.  See  also  Radiographs  of 
wounds. 

Zone  of  the  Interior 
Vietnam,  156 
World  War  II.  22,  56,  93 


☆  U.S.  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE:  1994  304-295 


