area  handbook  series 

Turkey 

a  country  study 


Turkey 

a  country  study 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Helen  Chapin  Metz 
Research  Completed 
January  1995 


On  the  cover:  Yeni  Mosque,  Istanbul,  one  of  Turkey's 
famous  mosques 


Fifth  Edition,  First  Printing,  1996. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Turkey  :  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library 
of  Congress  ;  edited  by  Helen  Chapin  Metz.  —  5th  ed. 

p.  cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294) 
(DA  Pam  ;  550-80) 

"Supersedes  the  1988  edition  of  Turkey  :  a  country 
study,  edited  by  Paul  M.  Pitman,  III." — T.p.  verso. 

"Research  completed  January  1995." 

Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp.  399-423)  and 
index. 

ISBN  0-8444-0864-6  (alk.  paper) 

  Z663.275  .T87  1996 

1.  Turkey.  I.  Metz,  Helen  Chapin,  1928-  .  II.  Library 
of  Congress.  Federal  Research  Division.  III.  Series.  IV. 
Series:  DA  Pam  ;  550-80 
DR417.T874  1996  95-49612 
956.1— dc20  CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-80 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared 
by  the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress 
under  the  Country  Studies/Area  Handbook  Program  spon- 
sored by  the  Department  of  the  Army  The  last  two  pages  of  this 
book  list  the  other  published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  coun- 
try, describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and 
national  security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the 
interrelationships  of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are 
shaped  by  cultural  factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisci- 
plinary  team  of  social  scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a 
basic  understanding  of  the  observed  society,  striving  for  a 
dynamic  rather  than  a  static  portrayal.  Particular  attention  is 
devoted  to  the  people  who  make  up  the  society,  their  origins, 
dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  common  interests  and  the 
issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature  and  extent  of  their 
involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their  attitudes 
toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and  political 
order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should 
not  be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States 
government  position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have 
sought  to  adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity. 
Corrections,  additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  read- 
ers will  be  welcomed  for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  DC  20540-4840 


in 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  of  the 
writers  of  the  1988  edition  of  Turkey:  A  Country  Study,  edited  by 
Paul  M.  Pitman  III.  Their  work  provided  general  background 
for  the  present  volume. 

The  authors  are  grateful  to  individuals  in  various  govern- 
ment agencies  and  private  institutions  who  gave  of  their  time, 
research  materials,  and  expertise  in  the  production  of  this 
book.  These  individuals  include  Ralph  K.  Benesch,  who  over- 
sees the  Country  Studies/Area  Handbook  program  for  the 
Department  of  the  Army.  The  authors  also  wish  to  thank  mem- 
bers of  the  Federal  Research  Division  staff  who  contributed 
directly  to  the  preparation  of  the  manuscript.  These  people 
include  Sandra  W.  Meditz,  who  reviewed  all  drafts,  served  as 
liaison  with  the  sponsoring  agency,  and  managed  book  produc- 
tion; Marilyn  L.  Majeska,  who  managed  editing;  Andrea  T.  Mer- 
rill, who  edited  tables  and  figures;  Lauren  Morris,  who  assisted 
with  bibliographic  research;  Barbara  Edgerton  and  Izella  Wat- 
son, who  did  word  processing;  David  P.  Cabitto,  Stephen  C. 
Cranton,  Janie  L.  Gilchrist,  and  Izella  Watson,  who  prepared 
the  camera-ready  copy;  and  Rita  M.  Byrnes,  who  assisted  with 
proofreading. 

Also  involved  in  preparing  the  text  were  Vincent  Ercolano, 
who  edited  chapters;  Catherine  Schwartzstein,  who  performed 
the  prepublication  editorial  review;  and  Joan  C.  Cook,  who 
compiled  the  index. 

Graphics  were  prepared  by  David  P.  Cabitto.  David  P.  Cabitto 
and  the  firm  of  Greenhorne  and  O'Mara  prepared  the  final 
maps.  Special  thanks  are  owed  to  Hermine  Dreyfuss,  whose 
photographs  form  the  basis  for  the  illustrations  prepared  by 
Wayne  Home  that  appear  on  the  title  page  of  each  chapter  and 
the  cover  art. 

Finally,  the  authors  acknowledge  the  generosity  of  the  Turk- 
ish Information  Office  in  Washington  and  the  other  govern- 
ment and  private  bodies  and  individuals  who  allowed  their 
photographs  to  be  used  in  this  study. 


v 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword   iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface   xiii 

Country  Profile   xv 

Introduction   xxv 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting   1 

Steven  A.  Glazer 

ANCIENT  ANATOLIA   6 

Hittites   6 

Phrygians  and  Lydians   7 

Armenians  and  Kurds   9 

Greeks   9 

ROME  AND  THE  BYZANTINE  EMPIRE   10 

TURKISH  ORIGINS   11 

Great  Seljuks   13 

Sultanate  of  Rum   14 

The  Crusades   15 

THE  OTTOMAN  EMPIRE   17 

Ottoman  Institutions   19 

Selim  I  and  Siileyman  the  Magnificent   20 

Kopriilu  Era   22 

External  Threats  and  Internal  Transformations  ....  23 

The  Young  Turks   27 

World  War  I   28 

ATATURK  AND  THE  TURKISH  NATION   31 

Plans  for  Partitioning  Turkey   32 

Nationalist  Movement   33 

War  of  Independence   34 

Ataturk's  Reforms   36 

Foreign  Policy   39 

TURKEY  AFTER  ATATURK   39 

vii 


World  War  II   40 

Multiparty  Politics,  1946-60   40 

The  Armed  Forces  Coup  and  Interim 

Rule,  1960-61   42 

Politics  and  Foreign  Relations  in  the  1960s   44 

CRISIS  IN  TURKISH  DEMOCRACY   48 

Politics  and  Elections  in  the  1970s   49 

Conflict  and  Diplomacy:  Cyprus  and  Beyond   53 

The  Economy:  An  Unresolved  Issue   56 

Challenges  to  Public  Order   59 

MILITARY  INTERVENTION  AND  THE  RETURN 

TO  CIVILIAN  RULE   60 

Military  Interlude   60 

Politics  and  the  Return  to  Civilian  Rule   62 

Economic  Stabilization  and  Prospects  for 

the  1990s   68 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment   71 

Eric  Hooglund 

GEOGRAPHY   75 

External  Boundaries   76 

Geology   77 

Landform  Regions   78 

Climate   84 

POPULATION   86 

Population  Density,  Distribution,  and 

Settlement   87 

Migration   88 

Government  Population  Policies   90 

LANGUAGE  REFORM:  FROM  OTTOMAN  TO 

TURKISH   92 

LINGUISTIC  AND  ETHNIC  GROUPS   95 

Turks   96 

Kurds   98 

Arabs   101 

Peoples  from  the  Caucasus   102 

Donme   102 

Greeks   103 

Armenians   103 

Jews   104 

RELIGIOUS  LIFE   105 


viii 


Islam   106 

Secularist  Policies   116 

Retreat  from  Secularism   117 

Non-Muslim  Minorities   120 

STRUCTURE  OF  SOCIETY   123 

The  Changing  National  Elite   124 

Urban  Life   125 

Towns   128 

Village  Life   128 

THE  INDIVIDUAL,  THE  FAMILY,  AND  GENDER 

RELATIONS   132 

Marriage   133 

The  Extended  Family   135 

Gender  Relations   137 

The  Status  of  Women   138 

EDUCATION   139 

HEALTH  AND  WELFARE   143 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy   147 

Fareed  Mohamedi 

GROWTH  AND  STRUCTURE  OF  THE  ECONOMY   152 

Economic  Development   152 

Reforms  under  Ozal   154 

Economic  Performance  in  the  Early  1990s   156 

Structure  of  the  Economy   159 

HUMAN  RESOURCES  AND  TRADE  UNIONS   159 

ROLE  OF  GOVERNMENT  IN  THE  ECONOMY   167 

Liberal  Interlude   167 

Etatism   168 

State  Economic  Enterprises  and  Privatization   169 

Development  Planning   172 

Budget   173 

AGRICULTURE   175 

Agricultural  Policy   178 

Irrigation   180 

Land  Use   182 

Land  Tenure   184 

Cropping  Patterns  and  Production   187 

Livestock   191 

Forestry  and  Fisheries   193 

INDUSTRY   194 

ix 


Industrial  Policy   196 

Energy   197 

Mineral  Resources   204 

Manufacturing   205 

Construction   209 

SERVICES  .....   210 

Banking  and  Finance   210 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications   214 

Tourism   219 

FOREIGN  ECONOMIC  RELATIONS   220 

Foreign  Trade   220 

Balance  of  Payments   223 

Regional  Economic  Integration   226 

OUTLOOK   229 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics   231 

Eric  Hooglund 

THE  CONSTITUTIONAL  SYSTEM   236 

Provisions  of  the  1982  Constitution   237 

Electoral  System   240 

GOVERNMENT  . ..  241 

National  Assembly   241 

President,  Council  of  Ministers,  and  Prime 

Minister   244 

Judiciary   248 

Provincial  and  Local  Government  .  250 

Civil  Service   252 

POLITICAL  DYNAMICS   254 

Political  Developments  since  the  1980  Coup   254 

Political  Parties   262 

Political  Interest  Groups   270 

MASS  MEDIA   283 

Newspapers  and  Periodicals   284 

Radio  and  Television   284 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS   285 

Dissolution  of  the  Soviet  Union   286 

The  Middle  East  ,   290 

European  Union   295 

The  United  States   298 


x 


Chapter  5.  National  Security   303 

Jean  K  Tartter 

HISTORICAL  ROLE  OF  THE  ARMED  FORCES   307 

THE  ARMED  FORCES  AND  SOCIETY   309 

POLITICS  AND  THE  MILITARY   310 

EXTERNAL  SECURITY  CONCERNS   312 

Middle  Eastern  Conflicts   314 

Syria   316 

Iran   316 

The  Balkans   317 

Greece  and  Cyprus   318 

TURKEYS  PARTICIPATION  IN  NATO   319 

ARMED  FORCES   321 

Defense  Spending   325 

Sources  and  Quality  of  Personnel   327 

Education  and  Training   330 

Conditions  of  Service   333 

Army   335 

Air  Force   339 

Navy   341 

Uniforms,  Ranks,  and  Insignia   345 

MILITARY  COOPERATION  WITH  THE  UNITED 

STATES   348 

DOMESTIC  ARMS  INDUSTRY   351 

INTERNAL  SECURITY  CONCERNS   354 

Kurdish  Separatists   355 

Terrorism  of  the  Left   357 

Armenian  Terrorism   358 

Islamists   359 

POLICE  SYSTEM   360 

National  Police   361 

Gendarmerie   362 

Intelligence  Services   365 

CRIME  AND  PUNISHMENT   366 

Procedures  in  Criminal  Law   367 

Incidence  of  Crime   369 

Narcotics  Trafficking   370 

Individual  Rights   371 

Penal  System   373 

Appendix  A.  Tables   377 

xi 


Appendix  B.  Selected  Political  Parties  and 

Labor  Organizations   395 

Bibliography   399 

Glossary   425 

Index   431 

Contributors   455 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Turkey,  1995   xxii 

2  Anatolia  in  Antiquity,  First  Century  B.C   8 

3  Distribution  of  the  Turkish  Peoples:  Migrations 

and  Conquests,  Seventh  Through  Eleventh 

Centuries   12 

4  Anatolia  in  the  Thirteenth  Century   16 

5  Expansion  of  the  Ottoman  Empire,  1324-1683   18 

6  Decline  of  the  Ottoman  Empire  from  the 

Treaty  of  Karlowitz,  1699,  to  the  Treaty 

of  Lausanne,  1923   24 

7  Topography  and  Drainage   80 

8  Structure  of  the  Gross  Domestic  Product 

(GDP),  1985  and  1993    160 

9  Major  Crop  Areas  and  Land  Use,  1995   188 

10  Selected  Industries  and  Minerals,  1995   200 

1 1  Transportation  System  and  Crude  Oil 

Pipeline,  1995    216 

12  Government  Structure,  1995    246 

13  Provincial  Elections,  1989  and  1994    260 

14  Organization  of  the  National  Security 

Establishment,  1995   324 

15  Disposition  of  Major  Units  of  the  Turkish 

Armed  Forces  and  Major  Military  Instal- 
lations Used  by  the  United  States,  1995    338 

16  Officer  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1995   346 

17  Enlisted  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1995   347 


xii 


Preface 


This  edition  of  Turkey:  A  Country  Study  replaces  the  previous 
edition  published  in  1988.  Like  its  predecessor,  the  present 
book  attempts  to  treat  in  a  compact  and  objective  manner  the 
dominant  historical,  social,  economic,  political,  and  national 
security  aspects  of  contemporary  Turkey.  Sources  of  informa- 
tion included  scholarly  books,  journals,  and  monographs;  offi- 
cial reports  and  documents  of  governments  and  international 
organizations;  and  foreign  and  domestic  newspapers  and  peri- 
odicals. Relatively  up-to-date  economic  data  were  available 
from  several  sources,  but  the  sources  were  not  always  in  agree- 
ment. 

Chapter  bibliographies  appear  at  the  end  of  the  book;  brief 
comments  on  some  of  the  more  valuable  sources  for  further 
reading  appear  at  the  conclusion  of  each  chapter.  Measure- 
ments are  given  in  the  metric  system;  a  conversion  table  is  pro- 
vided to  assist  those  who  are  unfamiliar  with  the  metric  system 
(see  table  1,  Appendix  A) .  Appendix  B  is  a  list  of  selected  polit- 
ical parties  and  labor  organizations,  with  their  acronyms.  The 
Glossary  provides  brief  definitions  of  terms  that  may  be  unfa- 
miliar to  the  general  reader. 

The  authors  have  attempted  to  follow  standard  Turkish 
spelling  of  Turkish  words,  phrases,  and  place-names.  The  prin- 
cipal guide  used  was  The  Concise  Oxford  Turkish  Dictionary  (1971 
edition).  The  place-names  used  are  those  established  by  the 
United  States  Board  on  Geographic  Names  as  of  September 
1984.  A  few  exceptions  were  made  for  well-known  geographical 
features.  For  example,  the  study  uses  Bosporus  and  Dar- 
danelles instead  of  Istanbul  Bogazi  and  Qanakkale  Bogazi.  In 
addition,  although  Mustafa  Kemal  did  not  become  Kemal 
Atatiirk  until  the  Law  of  Surnames  was  enacted  in  1934,  he  is 
referred  to  throughout  as  Atatiirk.  However,  the  Turkish 
names  appearing  in  the  text  of  this  volume  are  missing  most  of 
the  diacritics  used  by  the  language.  In  this  case,  it  is  a  matter  of 
lagging  technology:  the  typesetting  software  being  used  simply 
cannot  produce  all  of  the  necessary  diacritics  in  the  text 
(although  they  appear  on  the  maps).  For  this  the  authors  apol- 
ogize and  hope  that  by  the  time  this  country  study  is  updated, 
missing  diacritics  will  no  longer  be  the  norm. 


xiii 


The  body  of  the  text  reflects  information  available  as  of  Jan- 
uary 1995.  Certain  other  portions  of  the  text,  however,  have 
been  updated.  The  Introduction  discusses  significant  events 
that  have  occurred  since  the  completion  of  research,  and  the 
Country  Profile  and  Appendix  B  include  updated  information 
as  available. 


xiv 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republic  of  Turkey. 
Short  Form:  Turkey. 
Term  for  Citizens:  Turk(s). 
Capital:  Ankara. 

Geography 

Size:  About  779,452  square  kilometers,  somewhat  smaller  than 
Texas  and  Louisiana  combined. 


xv 


Topography:  Seven  natural  regions — Black  Sea,  Aegean, 
Mediterranean,  Pontus  and  Taurus  mountain  ranges, 
Anatolian  Plateau,  eastern  highlands,  and  Arabian  Platform. 
Country  includes  one  of  the  most  earthquake-prone  areas  of 
the  world. 

Climate:  Periphery  of  Turkey  has  Mediterranean  climate  with 
cool,  rainy  winters  and  hot,  moderately  dry  summers.  Interior, 
shielded  from  Mediterranean  influences  by  mountains,  has 
continental  climate  with  cold  winters  and  dry,  hot  summers. 
Eastern  mountainous  area  has  inhospitable  climate,  with  hot, 
extremely  dry  summers  and  bitter  winters.  Rainfall  varies, 
ranging  from  annual  average  of  more  than  2,500  millimeters 
on  eastern  Black  Sea  coast  to  less  than  250  millimeters  in 
central  plateau  area. 

Society 

Population:  (1994)  Turkish  government  figure  61.2  million, 
growing  at  2.1  percent  a  year. 

Languages  and  Ethnic  Groups:  Turkish,  official  language, 
spoken  by  most  citizens;  mother  tongue  of  about  82  percent. 
Kurdish  spoken  by  roughly  17  percent  of  population.  Arabic 
and  Caucasian  languages  spoken  by  small  minority  groups. 
Turks  constitute  at  least  80  percent  of  population;  Kurds  form 
at  least  10  percent.  Other  minorities  include  Arabs,  people 
from  Caucasus  countries,  Donme,  Greeks,  and  Jews. 

Religion:  About  99  percent  nominally  Muslim,  of  whom  about 
66  percent  Sunni  Muslims,  and  about  33  percent  Alevi  (Shia) 
Muslims.  Constitution  proclaims  Turkey  secular  nation. 

Education:  Steadily  increasing  enrollments  in  tuition-free 
schools,  universities,  and  numerous  technical  institutes. 
Attendance  compulsory  at  five-year  primary  schools  and  three- 
year  middle  schools.  Middle  and  high  schools  offer  academic, 
technical,  and  vocational  education.  Twenty-seven  public 
universities  form  core  of  higher  education  system.  In  1990 
literacy  above  81  percent  for  people  over  fifteen  years  of  age. 

Health:  Inadequate  sewer  systems  in  some  urban  areas  and 
poor  water  supplies  in  many  villages  pose  continuing  health 
threats,  but  major  infectious  diseases  under  control.  Life 
expectancy  (1992):  males,  sixty-eight  years;  females,  seventy- 


XVI 


two  years;  infant  mortality  fifty-five  per  1,000  births. 

Economy 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  US$312.4  billion  in  1993 
(US$5,000  per  capita).  Economy  gradually  being  liberalized 
and  industrialized;  real  growth  averaged  7.3  percent  in  1993. 

Agriculture:  Less  than  15  percent  of  GDP  in  1993  but  remains 
crucial  sector  of  the  economy,  providing  more  than  50  percent 
of  employment,  most  raw  materials  for  industry,  and  15 
percent  of  exports.  Wheat  and  barley  main  crops;  cotton,  sugar 
beets,  hazelnuts,  and  tobacco  major  cash  crops.  Livestock 
production  extensive  and  growing.  Valuable  forest  areas  poorly 
managed;  fisheries  underdeveloped. 

Industry:  Major  growth  sector  contributing  more  than  30 
percent  of  GDP  in  1993,  employing  33  percent  of  labor  force. 
Food  processing  and  textiles  major  industries;  basic  metals, 
chemicals,  and  petrochemicals  well  established. 

Imports:  US$29.4  billion  in  1993.  Main  imports  included 
machinery  and  equipment,  60  percent;  petroleum,  8.5 
percent;  and  foodstuffs,  4  percent. 

Exports:  US$15.3  billion  in  1993,  consisting  of  manufactured 
goods  (mainly  textiles  and  processed  leather  products),  70 
percent;  foodstuffs,  20  percent;  mineral  products,  4  percent. 

Major  Trading  Partners:  Industrialized  countries,  especially 
members  of  European  Union,  United  States,  Russia,  and  Saudi 
Arabia. 

Balance  of  Payments:  In  1993-94  Turkey  experienced  its 
fourth  major  balance  of  payments  crisis  in  last  forty  years. 
Domestic  fiscal  policy  and  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) 
helped  reduce  imports  in  1994.  Trade  deficit  was  US$4.8 
billion  in  1994.  Soaring  imports  during  first  seven  months  of 
1995  pushed  trade  deficit  up  to  US$6  billion. 

General  Economic  Conditions:  In  1995  economy  grew  during 
first  nine  months;  inflation  became  more  severe.  December 
1995  elections  important  for  fiscal  stability. 

Currency  and  Exchange  Rate:  1  Turkish  lira  (TL)  =  100  kurus; 
(August  31,  1995)  US$1.00  =  TL47,963.00. 


xvii 


Transportation  and  Telecommunications 


Railroads:  8,430  kilometers  (standard  gauge — 1.435  meters), 
of  which  796  kilometers  electrified  in  1995. 

Roads:  (1995)  Nearly  59,770  kilometers  of  all-weather  highways 
of  which  27,000  kilometers  paved.  Highways  main  means  of 
transport.  Government  planned  large  highway  expansion  by 
year  2000. 

Ports:  Five  major  ports:  Istanbul,  Mersin,  Ismir,  Iskenderun, 
and  Kocaeli;  ten  secondary  ports,  eighteen  minor  ports. 

Airports:  105  usable  airports,  sixty-nine  with  paved  runways  in 
1994. 

Telecommunications:  Telephone  system  overloaded  in  1995; 
modernization  program  promised  to  make  telephones 
available  and  eliminate  waiting  circuits. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  Democratic,  secular,  and  parliamentary, 
according  to  provisions  of  1982  constitution.  Divided  into 
legislative,  executive,  and  judicial  establishments,  with 
legislative  power  vested  in  unicameral  National  Assembly 
consisting  of  450  deputies  elected  every  five  years.  Executive 
authority  greater  than  under  1961  constitution. 

Judicial  System:  Independent  of  other  state  organs;  autonomy 
protected  by  High  Council  of  Judges  and  Public  Prosecutors. 
Higher  courts  include  Constitutional  Court,  Council  of  State, 
Court  of  Jurisdictional  Dispute,  Court  of  Cassation,  and 
Military  Court  of  Cassation.  For  purpose  of  civil  and  criminal 
justice,  Court  of  Cassation  serves  as  supreme  court. 

Administrative  System:  In  1995  centralized  administrative 
system  of  seventy-six  provinces,  divided  into  districts,  and 
subdistricts.  Provinces  headed  by  governors  appointed  by 
executive  branch  and  responsible  to  central  administration. 

Politics:  True  Path  (Dogru  Yol  Partisi — DYP)  ruling  coalition 
with  Social  Democratic  Populist  Party  (Sosyal  Demokrat  Halkci 
Parti — SHP)  collapsed  in  September  1995  after  SHP  deputies 
voted  to  join  new  Republican  People's  Party  (Cumhuriyet  Halk 
Partisi — CHP).  New  government  of  DYP-CHP  formed  in 
October  1995  to  serve  in  a  caretaker  capacity  prior  to 


xviii 


parliamentary  elections  on  December  24.  Other  parties  are 
Motherland  Party  (Anavatan  Partisi — ANAP),  Welfare  Party 
(Refah  Partisi — RP),  and  Democratic  Left  (Demokratik  Sol 
Partisi— DSP). 

International  Affairs:  Allied  with  West  through  North  Atlantic 
Treaty  Organization  (NATO).  Tensions  with  NATO  allies 
followed  1980  military  takeover  but  reduced  after  1983. 
Continued  conflict  with  Greece  over  Cyprus  and  control  of 
Aegean  waters. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces  (1994-95):  Total  personnel  on  active  duty 
503,800,  including  410,200  draftees  serving  for  fifteen  months. 
Reserves  total  952,300.  Component  services:  army  of  393,000 
(345,000  conscripts),  air  force  of  56,800  (28,700  conscripts), 
and  navy  of  54,000  (36,500  conscripts  plus  3,000  marines). 

Major  Tactical  Military  Units  (1994-95):  Army:  one 
mechanized  division,  one  mechanized  division  headquarters, 
one  infantry  division,  fourteen  armored  brigades,  seventeen 
mechanized  brigades,  nine  infantry  brigades,  four  commando 
brigades,  one  infantry  regiment,  one  Presidential  Guard 
regiment,  five  border  defense  regiments,  and  twenty-six  border 
defense  battalions.  Air  Force:  fourteen  fighter-ground  attack 
squadrons,  six  fighter  squadrons,  three  training  squadrons, 
and  eight  surface-to-air  missile  squadrons.  Navy:  seventeen 
submarines,  eleven  destroyers,  sixteen  frigates,  sixteen  fast- 
attack  craft,  miscellaneous  patrol,  coastal,  and  mine-warfare 
combatants,  and  twenty-eight  helicopters. 

Military  Equipment  (1995):  Heavy  dependence  on  United 
States  and  other  Western  allies  for  armored  fighting  vehicles, 
artillery,  aircraft,  missiles,  and  fighting  ships.  Modernization 
programs  underway  stressing  improved  antitank  and  air 
defense  capability.  New  effort  to  meet  needs  through  domestic 
manufacture,  including  F-16  fighter  airplanes  on 
coproduction  basis,  artillery,  tank  upgrades,  communication 
and  navigation  equipment,  frigates,  and  submarines. 

Military  Budget:  About  TL93,453  billion  (US$4.6  billion)  plus 
US$3  billion  for  the  gendarmerie  in  1994.  Defense 
expenditures  estimated  to  be  9.4  percent  of  GNP  in  1994. 
Turkey's  defense  expenditures  per  capita  lowest  among  NATO 


xix 


countries. 

Foreign  Military  Treaties:  Member  of  NATO  since  1952. 

Internal  Security  Forces:  Principal  security  agencies:  National 
Police,  believed  to  number  about  50,000,  oriented  to  urban 
areas,  and  gendarmerie,  a  force  of  about  70,000  active-duty 
personnel  with  50,000  reserves,  oriented  primarily  to  rural  and 
border  areas.  Gendarmerie  under  army  command  in  wartime 
and  in  areas  where  martial  law  prevails;  deploys  three  mobile 
brigades  equipped  as  light  mechanized  infantry.  Special  police 
units  fight  drug  traffic  and  terrorism  and  support  gendarmerie 
and  army  operations  against  Kurdish  insurgents.  National 
Intelligence  Organization  primary  body  concerned  with 
intelligence  on  subversive  activity. 


xx 


xxii 


CO 

03 
CO 

CD  CD 

8*  I  « 


5.  8 


co  cc 


£0  ^  4 


CO 

CO 


co  C 

3-  2 


r  i 

co  S 

N  c: 
Nl 


.3 


5M 


jo 


CO 


CO  50 


^  C\J    c\?  ^ 
^    ^   —  CO    io  p 


CD 

5  £ 


CD  .i= 


CD 
CO. 


CO  CQ 


50 

^  a  ■§ 

O    P  51 


co  c 
^  -S? 

C     S    >C33  o> 


£  £  ^  ^  ^ 


3  P 


50 


CO  g 
=3  CO 


1 

cts 


CO 


03 

— ■  C: 
^  P 


N 
03 


CO  Co  2? 
If)    CO  ^ 


JO 


CD  £ 

COo  -5 


CD 

CO 
■C 

co> 
:=3 


CQOOOQQUjUjUjUjUjeJCDCD 


is 

5 


CD  P 

O  'CD 


03 

*  i 

C  JO 

cts  o 
p  "6 


So 


co 

CO 

JC33 

^ 


CO 


I 


SO  § 


CO 

r~  CD 


co  10 

K  IT3 


P 

P 


I  1 


xxiii 


Introduction 


THE  REPUBLIC  OF  TURKEY  (Turkiye  Cumhuriyeti)  was 
established  on  October  29,  1923,  under  the  firm  control  and 
leadership  of  Mustafa  Kemal,  better  known  as  Kemal  Ataturk. 
The  new  state  was  at  once  the  successor  to  and  victor  over  the 
Ottoman  Empire,  long  a  major  power  in  the  European  states 
system.  The  creation  of  the  modern  Turkish  polity  reflected 
not  only  a  successful  struggle  against  external  enemies  but  also 
a  triumph  over  deeply  rooted  domestic  traditions.  The  repub- 
lic deliberately  rejected  important  elements  of  Turkey's  Otto- 
man past,  especially  the  Ottoman  dynasty's  claim  to  spiritual 
leadership  of  Muslims  worldwide.  However,  the  official  dis- 
establishment of  Islam  as  the  state  religion  in  1924  did  not 
result  in  the  creation  of  a  fully  secular  society  as  Ataturk  and  his 
colleagues  had  hoped. 

Although  a  commitment  to  secularism  has  continued  to  be 
almost  a  prerequisite  for  membership  in  the  country's  political 
elite,  Turkey  has  experienced  several  popular  movements  of 
Islamic  political  activism.  The  most  recent  movement,  which 
began  in  the  mid-1980s  and  is  continuing,  has  threatened  secu- 
larism in  ways  the  republic's  founders  could  not  have  imagined 
in  the  1920s  and  1930s. 

Although  the  republic  emerged  through  the  work  and  effort 
of  many  people,  it  bore  the  indelible  imprint  of  Ataturk.  Dur- 
ing World  War  I,  the  Ottoman  Empire  had  been  an  ally  of  Ger- 
many, and  in  the  chaos  that  accompanied  the  empire's  defeat 
by  the  Allied  powers,  Ataturk,  as  the  victor  over  Australian  and 
British  forces  at  Gallipoli,  emerged  as  one  of  the  few  national 
heroes.  His  military  reputation  was  enhanced  further  during 
the  four-year  War  of  Independence,  when  he  led  the  forces 
that  expelled  the  Greek  invading  army  from  the  country.  Of 
even  greater  long-term  importance,  Ataturk  was  a  pragmatic 
political  leader  with  a  penchant  for  social  reform.  In  keeping 
with  long-standing  Ottoman  concepts  of  government,  however, 
he  was  also  an  elitist;  his  reforms  did  not  change  significantly 
the  relationship  of  the  privileged  governing  stratum  with  the 
masses,  although  they  did  alter  to  some  extent  the  nature  of 
the  elite.  By  the  mid-1990s,  the  continuing  impact  of  Ataturk 
and  his  precepts  in  shaping  the  form  and  nature  of  Turkish 


xxv 


society  were  being  challenged  by  Turkey's  diverse  ethnic,  reli- 
gious, and  social  groups. 

Ataturk's  avowed  goal  was  to  create  from  the  Anatolian  rem- 
nant of  the  Ottoman  Empire  a  new  society  patterned  directly 
on  the  societies  of  Western  Europe.  In  pursuit  of  this  goal,  he 
tolerated  only  token  opposition.  Turkey's  president  from  1923 
until  his  death  in  1938,  he  apparently  was  persuaded  that  the 
masses  needed  a  period  of  tutelage.  Although  the  presidency 
technically  possessed  relatively  few  constitutional  powers, 
Ataturk  ruled  for  fifteen  years  as  charismatic  governor  and 
teacher — training,  cajoling,  and  forcing  the  government,  his 
political  party,  the  bureaucracy,  the  military,  and  the  masses  to 
behave  in  the  manner  he  thought  appropriate.  Ataturk's  "Six 
Arrows" — secularism,  republicanism,  etatism  (see  Glossary), 
populism,  nationalism,  and  reformism — were  incorporated 
into  the  constitutions  of  1924,  1961,  and  1982.  In  a  general 
sense,  Atatiirkism  (also  known  as  Kemalism)  has  been  accepted 
by  the  Turkish  political  elite  but  has  been  contested  by  various 
organized  groups. 

There  is  general  agreement  among  scholars  that  secularism 
was  and  remains  the  most  significant,  and  by  far  the  most  con- 
troversial, aspect  of  Atattirkism.  The  Turks,  whose  origins  go 
back  to  Central  Asia,  had  converted  to  Islam  by  the  time  they 
began  establishing  their  political  sovereignty  in  parts  of  Anato- 
lia during  the  tenth  century.  Throughout  the  next  nine  centu- 
ries, Islam  was  the  primary  guiding  as  well  as  delimiting  force 
in  societal  development.  From  administrative  institutions  to 
social  customs,  from  ideals  of  governance  to  the  concepts  of 
being  a  subject  or  a  citizen,  from  birth  to  death,  most  aspects  of 
life  were  influenced  and  regulated  by  Islamic  tenets,  precepts, 
and  laws.  Various  forms  of  popular  or  folk  Islam  gained  an 
important  hold  on  the  Turkish  imagination,  and  Sufi  brother- 
hoods became  vital  socioreligious  institutions. 

Ataturk  and  his  associates  rejected  the  historical  legacy  of 
Islam  and  were  determined  to  create  a  secular  republic.  Follow- 
ing the  disestablishment  of  Islam  and  continuing  into  the  mid- 
19405,  the  government  suppressed  public  manifestations  and 
observances  of  religion  that  the  secularist  minority  deemed 
inimical  to  the  development  of  a  modern,  European-style  state. 
The  regime  closed  the  religious  schools,  shut  down  the  Sufi 
brotherhoods,  and  banned  their  rituals  and  meetings.  The 
reformers  replaced  Islamic  law,  the  seriat,  with  codes  borrowed 
from  European  countries;  dropped  the  Islamic  calendar  in 


xxvi 


favor  of  the  Gregorian;  and  abolished  the  pervasive  legal  and 
religious  functions  of  the  religious  scholars  and  lawyers. 
Atatvirk  imposed  outward  signs  of  secularization  by  discourag- 
ing or  outlawing  articles  of  clothing  closely  identified  with 
Islamic  traditions  such  as  the  veil  for  women  and  the  fez  for 
men.  Finally,  the  use  of  Arabic  script  for  writing  in  Turkish  was 
declared  illegal,  despite  its  sacerdotal  association  as  the  lan- 
guage of  the  Kuran  (Quran)  and  hence  the  language  of  God. 

Although  Ataturk  believed  that  the  secularist  campaign 
made  a  period  of  authoritarian  government  necessary,  his  suc- 
cessors wanted  to  establish  a  democratic  government.  Thus, 
Ismet  Inonu,  who  had  become  president  after  Atatiirk's  death 
in  1938,  permitted  the  creation  of  a  multiparty  political  system 
following  World  War  II.  In  the  first  contested  election  in  1946, 
the  ruling  Republican  People's  Party  (Cumhuriyet  Halk  Par- 
tisi — CHP)  retained  its  majority  in  the  Turkish  Grand  National 
Assembly,  although  opposition  candidates  accused  the  CHP  of 
electoral  irregularities.  When  the  Democrat  Party  (Demokrat 
Parti — DP)  subsequently  won  a  majority  in  the  1950  election, 
Inonu  voluntarily  relinquished  power,  despite  offers  from  ele- 
ments of  the  armed  forces  to  stage  a  coup.  Thus  began  Tur- 
key's experiment  in  democracy:  the  military-bureaucratic  elite 
that  had  established  the  republican  order  gradually  turned 
over  its  power  to  an  elected  parliament,  which  reflected  the 
interests  and  desires  of  broader  sectors  of  society. 

Although  the  Kemalists  have  made  compromises  with  tradi- 
tional forces  in  Turkish  society,  they  never  have  abandoned  the 
main  tenets  of  the  secularist  program.  By  the  end  of  the  1950s, 
the  armed  forces  had  assumed  a  role  as  guardians,  not  only  of 
national  security,  but  also  of  Atatiirk's  legacy.  On  three  occa- 
sions, in  1960,  1971,  and  1980,  the  senior  military  intervened 
to  safeguard  Turkey's  political  development  from  forces  that 
the  military  believed  threatened  the  integrity  of  the  state.  In 
each  case,  civilian  leaders  had  proved  unable  or  unwilling  to 
deliver  policies  acceptable  to  the  military.  In  both  1960  and 
1980,  a  military  junta  took  over  the  government,  and  rule  by 
martial  law  included  widespread  suppression  of  civil  rights  and 
purges  of  the  political  class.  On  both  occasions,  after  a  period 
of  direct  military  rule  the  military  restored  civilian  govern- 
ment, but  only  after  implementing  constitutional  changes, 
social  reforms,  and  economic  policies  designed  to  put  Turkey 
back  on  the  path  of  achieving  Atatiirk's  goal:  a  modern,  secular 
republic. 


xxvii 


Before  the  1980  military  coup,  Turkish  society  had  experi- 
enced what  was  perhaps  its  most  serious  crisis  since  the  War  of 
Independence.  The  framework  instituted  by  the  relatively  lib- 
eral constitution  of  1961,  along  with  the  fragmented  party  sys- 
tem, had  contributed  to  political  disorder:  unstable  coalitions 
rapidly  succeeded  one  another  while  failing  to  address  the 
country's  pressing  social,  economic,  and  political  problems. 
Underlying  the  political  crisis  were  rapid  and  profound  social 
changes.  Massive  population  shifts  from  villages  to  towns  and 
cities,  expanded  access  to  primary  and  secondary  education, 
the  availability  of  mass  media,  and  the  experiences  of  many 
Turkish  workers  in  Western  Europe  exposed  a  nation  of  prima- 
rily peasants  to  new  and  generally  disruptive  influences.  The 
extension  of  the  Westernization  process  from  the  educated 
elite  to  the  Anatolian  masses  both  challenged  and  reinforced 
the  latter's  adherence  to  Islamic  and  Turkish  traditions.  During 
the  second  half  of  the  1970s,  the  economy,  which  had  under- 
gone rapid  growth  in  the  postwar  decades,  entered  a  severe 
depression.  Turkey's  economic  difficulties  resulted  from  the 
inherent  limitations  of  import-substitution  industrialization 
and  were  exacerbated  by  the  deterioration  of  world  economic 
conditions  that  followed  the  1973  oil  crisis.  By  the  late  1970s,  at 
least  one-quarter  of  the  work  force  was  unemployed,  the 
annual  inflation  rate  exceeded  100  percent,  and  shortages  of 
foreign  exchange  reduced  imports  of  essential  commodities, 
causing  widespread  reductions  in  industrial  production. 

One  result  of  these  interrelated  crises  was  the  mobilization 
of  opposing  social  and  cultural  forces,  which  found  political 
expression  in  radical  parties  and  organizations.  These  included 
leftists  active  in  the  Turkish  Communist  Party  (TCP)  and  the 
Confederation  of  Revolutionary  Trade  Unions  of  Turkey 
(Turkiye  Devrimci  Isci  Sendikalari  Konfederasyonu — DISK), 
Islamicly  motivated  political  elements  behind  Necmettin  Erba- 
kan's National  Salvation  Party  (Milli  Selamet  Partisi — MSP), 
and  extreme  nationalist  groups  linked  to  Alparslan  Tiirkes's 
Nationalist  Action  Party  (Milliyetci  Hareket  Partisi — MHP) .  As 
political  life  became  increasingly  tense,  offshoots  of  these  polit- 
ical groups  fought  each  other  and  carried  out  terrorist  attacks 
against  representatives  of  the  established  order;  an  estimated 
5,000  persons  were  killed  in  politically  related  civil  strife 
between  1971  and  1980.  The  coalition  governments  of  the 
1970s  lacked  sufficient  political  support  to  effect  the  kinds  of 
social  reforms  that  would  alleviate  the  main  causes  of  popular 


xxviii 


discontent,  and  the  country  consequently  descended  into  con- 
ditions resembling  civil  war. 

Following  the  September  1980  coup,  the  military  made  the 
restoration  of  political  stability  its  main  priority.  The  command- 
ers of  the  armed  forces  formed  the  National  Security  Council 
(NSC — see  Glossary) ,  which  ruled  the  country  until  November 
1983.  The  NSC  ordered  the  arrest  and  imprisonment  of  thou- 
sands of  militants,  political  leaders,  and  trade  unionists;  it  also 
imposed  widespread  censorship  and  purged  the  armed  forces, 
the  bureaucracy,  and  the  universities.  These  and  other  mea- 
sures effectively  suppressed  both  violence  and  normal  political 
life.  The  NSC's  objective  was  to  eliminate  leftist,  nationalist, 
Islamic,  and  ethnic  organizations  that  contested  Ataturk's  polit- 
ical legacy.  The  NSC  retained  Turgut  Ozal,  an  economist  who 
had  served  in  Suleyman  Demirel's  civilian  cabinet  ousted  by 
the  coup  and  who  enjoyed  the  confidence  of  the  international 
financial  community,  and  gave  him  responsibility  for  economic 
policy.  Although  Ozal's  austerity  package  brought  immediate 
hardship  for  many  Turks,  it  ended  the  balance  of  payments  cri- 
sis and  contributed  to  an  economic  recovery. 

After  restoring  public  order  and  overcoming  the  most  press- 
ing economic  problems,  the  NSC  supervised  the  drafting  of  a 
new  constitution  and  electoral  laws  designed  to  rectify  the  per- 
ceived defects  of  the  1961  constitution  by  limiting  the  role  of 
smaller  parties  and  strengthening  the  powers  of  the  president, 
the  prime  minister,  and  the  party  that  won  a  majority  in  parlia- 
mentary elections.  However,  the  new  constitution  also  cur- 
tailed political  rights,  thus  arousing  sharp  criticism  both  in 
Turkey  and  abroad.  Particularly  controversial  was  a  ten-year 
ban  on  the  political  activities  of  about  200  leading  politicians, 
including  former  prime  ministers  Biilent  Ecevit  and  Demirel. 
The  NSC  sought  to  maintain  its  role  by  means  of  a  clause 
under  which  the  NSC  chairman,  General  Kenan  Evren,  was 
named  president  for  a  six-year  term. 

Having  established  a  new  political  framework,  the  NSC  grad- 
ually relaxed  restrictions  on  political  life  and  arranged  a  return 
to  civilian  government  after  a  parliamentary  election  held  in 
November  1983.  The  NSC  strictly  supervised  this  election;  it 
allowed  only  three  parties  to  present  candidates,  and  President 
Evren  blatantly  intervened  on  behalf  of  the  NSC's  favorite,  the 
Nationalist  Democracy  Party  (Milliyetci  Demokrasi  Partisi — 
MDP).  Nevertheless,  Ozal's  Motherland  Party  (Anavatan  Par- 
tisi— ANAP),  the  only  independently  established  party  that  had 


xxix 


been  tolerated  by  the  NSC,  achieved  a  strong  majority,  an  out- 
come that  was  widely  interpreted  as  a  sign  of  the  electorate's 
disapproval  of  military  rule. 

Ozal,  whose  primary  goal  was  economic  liberalization, 
claimed  that  his  triumph  represented  a  mandate  for  sweeping 
changes  in  the  economy.  In  power  from  November  1983  to 
November  1989,  he  sought  to  limit  state  intervention  in  the 
economy.  Rejecting  protectionism  and  import  substitution,  he 
opened  the  economy  to  international  markets,  arguing  that 
economic  growth  and  technical  modernization  would  do  more 
than  traditional  social  policies  to  ease  the  country's  problems. 
His  package  of  economic  reforms  aimed  to  make  Turkey  eco- 
nomically similar  to  the  countries  of  the  European  Union 
(EU — see  Glossary),  a  body  that  Ozal  hoped  Turkey  could  join. 
The  package  of  reforms  included  reduction  of  government 
price-setting,  positive  real  interest  rates,  devaluation  and  float- 
ing of  the  Turkish  lira  (TL;  for  value  of  the  lira — see  Glossary), 
liberalization  of  import  regulations,  and  export  subsidies. 

Turkey's  economic  performance  after  1983  was  impressive. 
Real  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  averaged  an 
annual  5.5  percent  growth  rate.  GDP  actually  reached  8  per- 
cent in  1986,  higher  than  that  of  any  other  member  of  the 
Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development 
(OECD — see  Glossary).  Inflation,  estimated  at  more  than  30 
percent  during  the  1983-85  period,  fell  in  the  1986-89  period. 
Unemployment,  however,  remained  a  serious  problem,  rising 
every  year  during  the  1980s  except  for  1986,  a  year  when 
growth  was  sufficient  to  allow  employment  to  increase  faster 
than  the  increase  in  the  working  population. 

The  restoration  of  civilian  rule  and  the  general  improve- 
ment in  the  overall  economy  failed  to  resolve  outstanding 
social  issues,  which  have  continued  to  bedevil  Turkey's  leader- 
ship. Although  the  government  tends  to  play  down  the  diver- 
sity of  the  population,  the  country's  inhabitants  in  fact  form  a 
mosaic  of  diverse  religious  and  ethnic  groups.  Most  of  the 
country's  citizens  continue  to  accept  as  true  Turks  only  Sunni 
(see  Glossary)  Muslims  whose  native  language  is  Turkish — 
effectively  excluding  other  religious  and  ethnic  groups  such  as 
the  Alevi  Muslims  and  Kurds,  who  together  comprise  at  least  20 
percent  of  the  population.  Conflicts  between  the  country's 
Turkish-speaking,  Sunni  majority  and  its  various  ethnic  and 
religious  minorities  have  intensified  since  the  mid-1980s, 
threatening  to  disrupt  public  order  and  projecting  an  illiberal 


xxx 


spirit  at  odds  with  the  dominant  political  culture  of  the  EU  that 
Turkey  aspires  to  join.  In  effect,  the  question  of  Turkey's 
national  identity  remains  a  focal  point  for  political  controversy 
and  social  conflict. 

The  government's  troubled  relations  with  its  Kurdish  minor- 
ity reveal  the  limits  of  social  integration.  Beginning  in  1984,  the 
Kurdistan  Workers'  Party  (Partiya  Karkere  Kurdistan — PKK) 
launched  guerrilla  attacks  on  government  personnel  and 
installations  in  the  predominantly  Kurdish-populated  prov- 
inces of  southeastern  Turkey.  The  PKK's  announced  objective 
was  the  establishment  of  a  separate  state  of  Kurdistan.  PKK 
guerrillas  have  evoked  some  sympathy  among  Kurds  in  the 
southeast,  a  region  characterized  by  endemic  poverty,  lack  of 
jobs,  inadequate  schools  and  health  care  facilities,  and  severe 
underdevelopment  of  basic  infrastructure  such  as  electricity, 
piped  water,  and  sewerage  systems.  The  Ozal  government 
sought  to  counter  the  appeal  of  the  PKK  by  making  govern- 
ment aid  to  the  long-neglected  southeast  a  priority,  and  it 
invested  large  sums  to  extend  electricity,  telephones,  and  roads 
to  the  region.  Ozal  envisioned  the  major  southeastern  Anatolia 
irrigation  and  power  project  as  a  program  to  provide  the  basis 
for  real  economic  development  that  eventually  would  assuage 
local  resentments  of  the  central  government.  In  the  short  run, 
however,  the  government  has  continued  to  depend  on  police 
actions  to  suppress  the  activities  of  Kurdish  insurgents.  Never- 
theless, the  armed  forces  have  been  unable  to  maintain  order 
in  the  region,  despite  the  deployment  of  large  military  and 
paramilitary  forces,  and  the  southeastern  provinces  remain 
under  de  facto  martial  law. 

Turkey  also  has  experienced  a  revival  of  religiously  moti- 
vated political  activity  since  the  early  1980s.  Veteran  Islamist 
activist  Necmettin  Erbakan  organized  the  new  Welfare  Party 
(Refah  Partisi — RP;  also  seen  as  Prosperity  Party)  in  1983,  but 
the  military  prohibited  it  from  participating  in  the  parliamen- 
tary elections  held  in  the  fall  of  that  year.  Subsequently,  the 
new  civilian  government  under  Ozal  relaxed  restrictions  on 
avowedly  religious  parties,  thus  enabling  the  Welfare  Party  to 
organize  freely  and  compete  in  local  and  national  elections. 
With  the  notable  exception  of  Erbakan,  the  Welfare  Party's 
leaders  represent  a  new  generation  that  has  grown  up  and 
been  educated  in  a  secular  Turkey  but  professes  a  commitment 
to  Islamic  values.  The  Welfare  Party  rejects  the  use  of  political 
violence  and  seeks  to  propagate  its  political  message  through 


xxxi 


example.  Working  at  the  grassroots  level  in  Turkey's  cities  and 
towns,  the  party's  strongest  appeal  has  been  in  lower-middle- 
class  neighborhoods.  However,  the  Welfare  Party  also  has 
attracted  support  among  some  upper-middle-class  profession- 
als and  ethnic  Kurds.  Although  the  Welfare  Party  calls  for  the 
application  of  Islamic  principles  in  relations  between  govern- 
ment agencies  and  the  people,  its  primary  appeal  seems  to 
derive  from  its  advocacy  of  economic  reform  policies  designed 
to  control  inflation  and  limit  the  amount  of  interest  banks  may 
charge  on  loans. 

The  Welfare  Party's  popularity  has  grown  gradually  but 
steadily.  In  the  1991  parliamentary  elections,  it  obtained  more 
than  10  percent  of  the  vote,  thus  surpassing  the  minimum 
threshold  for  winning  seats  in  the  National  Assembly.  Its  elec- 
toral performance  in  the  1994  municipal  elections  was  even 
better:  the  party  won  19  percent  of  the  total  vote  and  control  of 
the  government  of  several  large  cities,  including  both  Ankara 
and  Istanbul.  In  the  December  1995  National  Assembly  elec- 
tions, the  Welfare  Party  won  21  percent  of  the  vote  and  the 
largest  number  of  seats  of  any  party — 158. 

The  return  to  civilian  rule  in  1983  also  affected  Turkey's  for- 
eign policy.  The  three  years  of  military  government  had 
harmed  the  country's  reputation  among  its  allies  in  the  North 
Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO)  and  the  OECD,  all  of 
which  had  democratic  governments.  Turkey's  leaders  had  been 
committed  to  becoming  an  equal  partner  of  the  countries  of 
Western  Europe  since  the  late  1940s.  For  example,  Turkey 
became  a  member  of  the  Council  of  Europe  in  1949,  dis- 
patched its  troops  to  participate  in  the  United  States-led 
United  Nations  military  force  in  Korea  in  1950,  and  became  a 
full  member  of  the  NATO  military  alliance  in  1952.  Thus,  West 
European  criticisms  of  Turkey's  undemocratic  government  and 
human  rights  abuses  were  very  painful.  In  addition,  Turkey's 
image  suffered  from  the  continuing  tension  with  neighboring 
Greece — also  a  member  of  NATO — over  Cyprus  and  the  con- 
trol of  the  Aegean  Sea.  Ozal  therefore  wanted  to  repair  Tur- 
key's international  reputation  as  quickly  as  possible.  He 
envisioned  EU  membership  as  an  important  means  to  demon- 
strate that  Turkey  is  an  essential  part  of  Western  Europe.  In 
addition,  he  believed  that  EU  membership  would  provide  Tur- 
key with  vital  economic  benefits. 

Although  a  substantial  portion  of  the  political  and  economic 
elite  supported  Ozal's  objective  of  EU  membership,  it  was  not  a 


xxxii 


goal  shared  by  all  Turks.  For  example,  the  Welfare  Party 
opposed  any  further  integration  with  Europe,  arguing  instead 
that  Turkey  should  search  for  new  export  markets  in  its  natural 
and  historical  hinterland,  the  Middle  East.  The  Ozal  govern- 
ment did  not  dismiss  the  idea  of  expanding  political  and  eco- 
nomic ties  with  other  Islamic  countries,  and  actually  did 
cultivate  relations  with  Iran  and  Iraq.  These  two  neighbors 
were  at  war  with  each  other  from  1980  to  1988,  and  Turkey  was 
able  to  reap  economic  dividends  by  remaining  strictly  neutral 
with  respect  to  that  conflict.  Nevertheless,  the  government  con- 
tinued to  believe  that  Turkey's  national  interests  would  be 
served  best  by  strengthening  ties  to  Western  Europe.  Thus, 
Ozal  undertook  a  series  of  economic  and  political  reform  mea- 
sures that  he  believed  would  provide  credibility  for  Turkey's 
formal  application  to  join  the  EU.  The  application  finally  was 
submitted  in  April  1987.  To  demonstrate  that  Turkey  was  com- 
mitted to  democracy,  and  thus  worthy  of  membership  in  the 
EU,  all  martial  law  decrees  were  repealed  in  March,  although  a 
state  of  emergency  remained  in  force  in  the  southeastern  prov- 
inces. New  parliamentary  elections  also  were  announced  for 
the  fall,  a  full  year  before  they  were  required. 

The  November  1987  parliamentary  elections  were  a  turning 
point  in  the  democratization  process  in  Turkey  inasmuch  as 
these  were  the  first  genuinely  free  elections  since  the  1980 
coup.  All  political  parties  were  permitted  to  take  part.  In  addi- 
tion, the  ban  on  political  activities  of  200  senior  political  lead- 
ers had  been  lifted  as  a  result  of  a  popular  referendum  held 
earlier  in  September  1987.  Consequently,  former  prime  minis- 
ters Suleyman  Demirel  and  Bulent  Ecevit  campaigned  actively, 
the  former  as  head  of  the  True  Path  Party  (Dogru  Yol  Partisi — 
DYP)  and  the  latter  as  head  of  the  Democratic  Left  Party 
(Demokratik  Sol  Partisi — DSP).  Although  Ozal's  Motherland 
Party  retained  its  parliamentary  majority  (292  of  450  seats),  the 
True  Path  Party  obtained  fifty-nine  seats,  thus  gaining  for 
Demirel  an  important  national  political  platform.  During  the 
next  four  years,  Demirel  used  his  organizing  and  persuasive 
skills  to  rebuild  the  True  Path  Party  with  the  objective  of 
atuacting  enough  Motherland  voters  to  propel  his  party  to  the 
leading  position.  Within  eighteen  months,  Demirel's  persistent 
criticisms  of  Ozal  administration  policies  brought  initial  politi- 
cal dividends  for  the  True  Path  Party.  As  a  result  of  the  March 
1989  municipal  council  elections,  the  Motherland  Party  suf- 
fered a  major  setback;  it  received  only  26  percent  of  the  total 


xxxiii 


vote  nationwide  and  ranked  third  behind  the  Social  Demo- 
cratic Populist  Party  (Sosyal  Demokrat  Halkci  Parti — SHP)  and 
the  True  Path  Party. 

Neither  Demirel  nor  other  True  Path  leaders  considered  the 
opportunity  to  share  responsibility  for  local  government  to  be 
equivalent  to  the  control  of  the  national  government,  which 
remained  in  the  hands  of  Ozal's  Motherland  Party.  However, 
they  appreciated  the  significance  of  their  increased  share  of 
the  popular  vote  and  the  fact  that  they  had  party  cadres  in  posi- 
tions to  dispense  some  city  and  town  patronage.  Capitalizing 
on  the  momentum  of  the  victories,  the  True  Path  Party  intensi- 
fied its  organizing  efforts  in  anticipation  of  the  next  parliamen- 
tary elections.  These  elections,  which  were  held  in  October 
1991,  proved  to  be  both  sweet  and  sour  for  Demirel.  The  True 
Path  Party  defeated  its  rival,  the  Motherland  Party,  by  edging  it 
out  in  the  popular  vote,  27  to  24  percent.  Although  Demirel 
could  draw  satisfaction  from  the  True  Path's  emergence  from 
the  elections  as  the  largest  party  in  parliament  with  178  seats, 
he  simultaneously  was  disappointed  that  it  had  not  won  the 
absolute  majority — 226  seats — required  to  form  a  government. 
After  weeks  of  negotiations,  Demirel  and  SHP  leader  Erdal 
Inonii — the  son  of  Ismet  Inonii — reached  agreement  on  the 
formation  of  a  True  Path-SHP  coalition  government.  Thus, 
Demirel,  whom  the  military  had  overthrown  in  1980,  once 
again  became  prime  minister  of  Turkey. 

Demirel's  victory  was  not  at  the  expense  of  Ozal.  Two  years 
earlier,  Ozal  had  been  elected  president  to  replace  General 
Evren,  whose  constitutionally  mandated  seven-year  term  had 
concluded  at  the  end  of  1989.  The  1982  constitution  provides 
for  the  president  to  be  elected  by  the  parliament.  Because  the 
Motherland  Party  still  held  a  majority  of  parliamentary  seats  in 
1989,  Ozal's  election  seemed  assured  once  he  announced  his 
candidacy.  Nevertheless,  Demirel  and  other  politicians  refused 
to  support  Ozal's  bid  for  the  presidency,  and  their  tactics  pre- 
vented his  confirmation  until  the  third  ballot.  Demirel's  own 
opposition  to  Ozal  seemed  to  be  more  personal  than  ideologi- 
cal. Prior  to  the  1980  coup,  Ozal  had  been  a  member  of 
Demirel's  Justice  Party  (Adalet  Partisi — AP)  and  had  held  a 
junior  ministerial  post  in  the  Demirel  cabinet.  Demirel  appar- 
ently never  forgave  Ozal  for  joining  the  military  government 
following  the  coup.  Thus,  when  Demirel  became  prime  minis- 
ter, Turkish  politicians  had  reservations  as  to  whether  he  and 
President  Ozal  would  be  able  to  cooperate.  Indeed,  as  leader  of 


xxxiv 


an  opposition  party  in  parliament  during  1990  and  1991, 
Demirel  had  expressed  frequent  criticism  of  Ozal's  role  in  for- 
eign policy,  especially  the  latter's  decisions  to  align  Turkey  on 
the  side  of  the  United  States-led  coalition  against  Iraq  during 
the  Kuwait  crisis  and  Persian  Gulf  War  of  1990-91.  Neverthe- 
less, once  Demirel  became  prime  minister,  he  and  Ozal  did 
cooperate. 

Demirel  had  served  as  prime  minister  for  less  than  eighteen 
months  when  the  unexpected  death  of  Ozal  in  April  1993  pro- 
vided the  opportunity  for  him  to  succeed  to  the  presidency. 
During  his  tenure  as  head  of  government,  Demirel  had  been 
preoccupied  with  both  domestic  and  international  challenges. 
Within  Turkey,  the  PKK  had  intensified  its  attacks  on  Turkish 
security  and  civilian  personnel  in  southeastern  Anatolia.  The 
PKK's  insurgency  had  received  an  unexpected  boost  from  the 
1991  collapse  of  central  government  authority  in  northern 
Iraq's  Kurdish  region,  which  borders  southeastern  Turkey. 
Since  the  mid-1980s,  the  PKK  had  established  in  this  territory 
clandestine  bases  from  which  it  carried  out  some  of  its  opera- 
tions. By  the  end  of  1991,  the  absence  of  any  security  on  the 
Iraqi  side  of  the  border  had  enabled  the  PKK  both  to  expand 
its  network  of  bases  and  to  use  them  as  sanctuaries.  One  of 
Demirel's  most  important  policy  decisions  was  to  approve  in 
October  1992  a  plan  by  the  Turkish  military  to  attack  PKK 
bases  in  northern  Iraq.  This  plan  was  particularly  controversial 
because  three  of  Turkey's  NATO  allies — Britain,  France,  and 
the  United  States — were  enforcing  a  ban  on  any  Iraqi  military 
presence  in  northern  Iraq  in  order  to  protect  Iraqi  Kurds  from 
being  attacked  by  their  own  government. 

Demirel's  government  also  had  to  deal  with  the  unantici- 
pated collapse  of  the  Soviet  Union  and  Yugoslavia.  The  Soviet 
Union  had  been  a  powerful  and  generally  feared  neighbor 
ever  since  the  establishment  of  the  Turkish  Republic.  Its  sud- 
den disappearance  necessitated  the  formulation  of  new  diplo- 
matic, economic,  and  political  strategies  to  deal  with  the 
multifaceted  consequences.  Demirel  and  his  colleagues  had  a 
special  interest  in  Central  Asia,  and  they  hoped  that  Turkey 
could  serve  as  a  role  model  for  the  new  Turkic-speaking  states 
of  Azerbaijan,  Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan,  Turkmenistan,  and 
Uzbekistan.  However,  from  a  geographic  perspective,  these 
new  countries  were  closer  to  Iran  than  to  Turkey,  and  officials 
frequently  expressed  concern  about  suspected  Iranian  inten- 
tions in  Central  Asia.  Throughout  1992  the  Demirel  adminis- 


XXXV 


tration  perceived  Turkey  to  be  engaged  in  a  competitive  race 
with  Iran  for  regional  influence.  However,  by  the  time  Demirel 
became  president  in  May  1993,  most  officials  had  come  to  real- 
ize that  neither  their  country  nor  Iran  had  sufficient  resources 
for  such  a  competition. 

Demirel  had  to  give  up  his  leadership  of  the  True  Path  Party 
when  the  National  Assembly  elected  him  president.  The  DYP 
deputies  in  the  assembly  subsequently  chose  Tansu  (filler  as 
their  leader — the  first  woman  to  head  a  political  party — and  in 
June  1993  she  became  Turkey's  first  woman  prime  minister. 
Under  (filler's  administration,  the  status  of  Turkey's  Kurdish 
minority  continued  to  be  the  country's  most  serious  domestic 
problem,  one  that  had  multiple  international  repercussions. 
Although  the  PKK  had  renounced  its  goal  of  a  separate  Kurd- 
ish state  in  1993,  reaching  a  political  compromise  proved  diffi- 
cult because  the  Turkish  military  insisted  on  a  military 
solution.  Because  both  (filler  and  Demirel  were  sensitive  about 
past  military  interventions  in  domestic  politics,  neither  was 
prepared  to  risk  a  civilian-military  confrontation  by  challeng- 
ing the  military's  assumption  of  almost  a  free  hand  in  dealing 
with  the  security  situation  in  southeastern  Turkey.  By  1995 
more  than  220,000  soldiers,  in  addition  to  50,000  gendarmerie 
and  other  security  forces,  were  stationed  in  the  southeast.  Nev- 
ertheless, the  progressive  intensification  of  the  military  offen- 
sive against  the  PKK  failed  to  repress  the  PKK's  ability  to  mount 
deadly  assaults. 

The  military  campaign  provoked  criticism  from  Kurdish  and 
Turkish  politicians,  and  in  response  the  military  resurrected 
the  Prevention  of  Terrorism  Law,  which  criminalized  any  activ- 
ity— including  speech — that  threatened  the  integrity  of  the 
state.  This  law  was  used  in  1994  and  1995  to  arrest  journalists 
and  elected  members  of  the  National  Assembly,  who  were  tried 
in  special  state  security  courts  that  are  under  the  jurisdiction  of 
the  military. 

The  Kurdish  problem  has  had  significant  reverberations  on 
Turkey's  foreign  policy.  The  arrest  of  seven  members  of  the 
National  Assembly,  all  of  whom  were  Kurdish  deputies  charged 
with  endangering  state  security  through  their  discussions  of  the 
Kurdish  issue  with  fellow  parliamentarians  in  Europe  and 
North  America,  was  especially  troublesome  for  EU  countries. 
Member  governments  of  the  EU  condemned  the  arrests,  the 
stripping  of  the  Kurdish  deputies'  parliamentary  immunity, 
and  the  subsequent  December  1994  sentencing  of  the  deputies 


xxx  vi 


to  long  prison  terms.  Much  to  the  embarrassment  of  the  Turk- 
ish government,  imprisoned  Deputy  Leyla  Zane,  who  was  one 
of  the  first  women  elected  to  the  National  Assembly,  was  among 
the  several  human  rights  activists  whom  the  Norwegian  parlia- 
ment nominated  for  the  1995  Nobel  Peace  Prize.  Several  EU 
countries  cited  the  trial  of  the  elected  Kurdish  deputies  and 
similar  prosecutions  of  journalists  as  well  as  of  Turkey's  most 
famous  novelist,  Yashar  Kamal,  as  evidence  that  authoritarian- 
ism was  stronger  than  democratic  practices  in  Turkey  and  that, 
therefore,  the  country's  outstanding  application  for  EU  mem- 
bership should  not  be  considered. 

Because  joining  the  EU  was  as  important  an  economic  goal 
for  the  (filler  administration  as  it  had  been  for  her  predeces- 
sors, (filler  sought  to  dampen  European  criticisms  in  January 
1995  by  proposing  to  repeal  those  clauses  of  the  Prevention  of 
Terrorism  Law  that  criminalized  speech  and  publications.  Her 
objective  was  to  obtain  enough  support  to  win  EU  approval  of 
an  agreement  that  accepted  Turkey  into  a  customs  union  with 
the  EU.  The  EU  voted  in  March  1995  to  accept  Turkey  into  a 
customs  union  on  condition  that  the  Council  of  Europe  (the 
European  parliament)  certify  that  the  country  had  made 
progress  in  the  institutionalization  of  democratic  practices. 

Immediately  following  the  EU  vote,  a  new  crisis  in  Turkish- 
EU  relations  erupted  when  more  than  35,000  Turkish  troops 
invaded  northern  Iraq  in  yet  another  attempt  to  destroy  sus- 
pected PKK  bases.  The  military  offensive  in  northern  Iraq 
lasted  for  more  than  three  months  and  reignited  European 
criticisms  of  Turkish  policies.  Attention  inevitably  focused  on 
the  government  of  Turkey's  relations  with  its  Kurdish  minority. 
Criticism  of  Turkey's  human  rights  practices  at  an  April  1995 
meeting  of  the  Council  of  Europe  was  so  intense  that  the  Turk- 
ish delegates  walked  out,  partly  in  protest  and  partly  to  avoid 
the  humiliation  of  being  present  for  a  vote  against  Turkey.  To 
dilute  European  criticisms,  (filler  proposed  that  the  National 
Assembly  adopt  amendments  to  the  1982  constitution  that 
would  strengthen  democratic  procedures.  For  example,  the 
amendments  would  end  the  ban  on  political  activities  by  associ- 
ations such  as  labor  unions  and  professional  groups,  permit 
civil  servants  and  university  students  to  organize,  and  make  it 
difficult  for  courts  to  strip  parliamentary  deputies  of  their 
immunity  from  prosecution.  The  National  Assembly's  adoption 
of  the  amendments  in  July  1995,  coupled  with  the  withdrawal 
of  the  last  Turkish  military  units  from  Iraq,  helped  to  ease 


xxxvii 


some  of  the  tension  between  Turkey  and  its  erstwhile  Euro- 
pean friends. 

The  democratization  process  is  not  without  controversy 
within  Turkey.  An  influential  minority  of  the  political  elite 
believe  that  the  country's  laws  and  institutions  provide  ade- 
quate protection  of  civil  liberties  and  that  EU  pressures  consti- 
tute unacceptable  interference  in  Turkey's  internal  affairs. 
This  view  is  particularly  strong  among  some  military  officers, 
and  their  opposition  to  (filler's  proposal  to  repeal  Article  8  of 
the  Prevention  of  Terrorism  Law  was  sufficient  to  persuade  a 
majority  of  deputies  in  the  National  Assembly  to  vote  against 
the  bill. 

The  failure  to  win  approval  for  repealing  the  controversial 
Article  8  of  the  Prevention  of  Terrorism  Law  had  serious  impli- 
cations for  the  (filler  government.  During  the  summer  of  1995, 
the  DYP  coalition  partner,  the  SHP,  effectively  dissolved  itself 
by  incorporating  with  the  more  liberal  Republican  People's 
Party  (GHP),  which,  since  its  revival  in  1992,  had  adopted  a 
strong  position  in  favor  of  abolishing  Article  8.  The  merger 
necessitated  party  elections  for  a  new  leader,  elections  that 
resulted  in  Deniz  Baykal's  selection  as  head  of  the  expanded 
CHP  in  September  1995.  Baykal  not  only  was  opposed  to  Arti- 
cle 8,  but  also  advocated  civil  rights  legislation  that  would 
include  punishment  for  security  officials  who  abuse  the  rights 
of  political  detainees.  Given  his  views,  Baykal  was  not  expected 
to  keep  the  CHP  in  the  coalition  government,  and,  only  ten 
days  after  his  victory,  he  withdrew,  causing  the  government's 
collapse,  (filler  tried  to  form  a  minority  government  in  Octo- 
ber, but  within  ten  days  was  forced  to  resign  for  the  second 
time  in  less  than  one  month  when  her  DYP  government  failed 
to  win  a  vote  of  confidence  from  the  National  Assembly.  Baykal 
then  agreed  to  join  a  new  coalition  government  on  two  condi- 
tions: that  the  Article  8  amendments  be  resubmitted  to  the 
National  Assembly  and  that  new  parliamentary  elections  be 
scheduled,  (filler  imposed  strict  party  discipline  for  the  second 
vote,  thus  ensuring  a  majority  favoring  passage  of  the  amend- 
ments to  Article  8  of  the  Prevention  of  Terrorism  Law,  and  she 
reluctantly  called  for  new  elections,  to  be  held  in  December 
1995. 

The  December  1995  elections  represented  a  major  setback 
for  filler  and  her  party,  which  came  in  third  with  19  percent  of 
the  vote.  The  Welfare  Party  emerged  in  first  place  with  21  per- 
cent of  the  vote,  followed  by  the  Motherland  Party  with  19.6 


xxxviii 


percent.  The  failure  of  any  party  to  win  a  majority  of  seats  in 
the  National  Assembly  mandated  the  formation  of  a  coalition 
government.  However,  this  task  proved  to  be  politically  difficult 
because  none  of  the  secular  parties  was  willing  to  participate  in 
a  Welfare-dominated  government,  and  neither  the  DYP  nor  the 
Motherland  Party  was  keen  on  cooperation.  Finally,  after  more 
than  ten  weeks  of  sometimes  tense  political  wrangling,  Caller 
and  Motherland  Party  leader  Mesut  Yilmaz  agreed  to  put  aside 
their  bitter  rivalry  and  form  a  minority  government  with  Yilmaz 
as  prime  minister  for  the  first  year  and  (filler  replacing  him  in 
1997.  This  Mother lan d-DYP  coalition  won  a  vote  of  confidence 
in  March  1996  because  Ecevit's  DSP,  which  had  seventy-five 
National  Assembly  seats,  agreed  to  abstain  on  confidence  votes. 

The  performance  of  Turkey's  economy  was  mixed  during 
1995.  The  monetary  policies  of  the  (filler  government  included 
strict  controls  over  public-sector  expenditures,  which  contrib- 
uted to  an  easing  of  the  financial  crisis  that  had  developed  in 
early  1994.  Although  exports  rose  steadily  during  the  first  two 
quarters  of  the  year,  imports  increased  at  a  faster  rate,  and  this 
surge  in  imports  added  to  the  country's  severe  balance  of  pay- 
ments deficit.  In  addition,  inflation  continued  to  be  a  major 
economic  problem,  totalling  78.9  percent  for  all  of  1995.  Sev- 
eral years  of  high  inflation  rates  and  low  wage  increases  had 
aggravated  employer-employee  relations.  The  strain  was 
reflected  in  the  large  number  of  strikes  during  1995,  including 
a  crippling  two-month-long  strike  by  more  than  350,000  public- 
sector  workers  in  the  autumn.  Moreover,  the  privatization  of 
state-owned  enterprises — the  principal  feature  of  the  (filler 
administration's  structural  adjustment  program — made  little 
progress  in  1995.  Within  the  National  Assembly,  a  majority  of 
deputies  opposed  the  sale  of  major  public  factories  for  ideolog- 
ical (the  relevant  industries  were  strategic)  or  political  (fear 
that  sales  would  lead  to  increased  unemployment)  reasons. 

March  18,  1996  Paul  M.  Pitman,  III,  and 

Eric  Hooglund 


xxxix 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


Isak  Pasa  Palace,  in  Dogubayazit,  east  central  Turkey,  built  in  1685 


TURKEY  IS  A  NEW  COUNTRY  in  an  old  land.  The  modern 
Turkish  state — beginning  with  the  creation  of  the  Republic  of 
Turkey  in  the  years  immediately  after  World  War  I — drew  on  a 
national  consciousness  that  had  developed  only  in  the  late 
nineteenth  century.  But  the  history  of  nomadic  Turkish  tribes 
can  be  traced  with  certainty  to  the  sixth  century  A.D.,  when 
they  wandered  the  steppes  of  central  Asia.  Asia  Minor,  which 
the  Turks  invaded  in  the  eleventh  century,  has  a  recorded  his- 
tory that  dates  back  to  the  Hittites,  who  flourished  there  in  the 
second  millennium  B.C.  Archaeological  evidence  of  far  older 
cultures  has  been  found  in  the  region,  however. 

The  term  Turkey,  although  sometimes  used  to  signify  the 
Ottoman  Empire,  was  not  assigned  to  a  specific  political  entity 
or  geographic  area  until  the  republic  was  founded  in  1923.  The 
conquering  Turks  called  Asia  Minor,  the  large  peninsular  terri- 
tory they  had  wrested  from  the  Byzantine  Empire,  by  its  Greek 
name,  Ajiatole  (sunrise;  figuratively,  the  East),  or  Anatolia.  The 
term  Anatolia  is  also  used  when  events  described  affected  both 
that  region  and  Turkish  Thrace  ("Turkey-in-Europe")  because 
of  the  two  areas'  closely  linked  political,  social,  and  cultural 
development. 

Anatolia  is  a  bridge  connecting  the  Middle  East  and  Europe, 
and  it  shares  in  the  history  of  both  those  parts  of  the  world. 
Despite  the  diversity  of  its  peoples  and  their  cultures,  and  the 
constantly  shifting  borders  of  its  ethnic  map,  Anatolia  has  a  his- 
tory characterized  by  remarkable  continuity.  Wave  after  wave  of 
conquerors  and  settlers  have  imposed  their  language  and  other 
unique  features  of  their  culture  on  it,  but  they  also  have  invari- 
ably assimilated  the  customs  of  the  peoples  who  preceded 
them. 

The  history  of  Turkey  encompasses,  first,  the  history  of  Ana- 
tolia before  the  coming  of  the  Turks  and  of  the  civilizations — 
Hittite,  Thracian,  Hellenistic,  and  Byzantine — of  which  the 
Turkish  nation  is  the  heir  by  assimilation  or  example.  Second, 
it  includes  the  history  of  the  Turkish  peoples,  including  the 
Seljuks,  who  brought  Islam  and  the  Turkish  language  to  Anato- 
lia. Third,  it  is  the  history  of  the  Ottoman  Empire,  a  vast,  cos- 
mopolitan, pan-Islamic  state  that  developed  from  a  small 
Turkish  amirate  in  Anatolia  and  that  for  centuries  was  a  world 
power. 


3 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Finally,  Turkey's  history  is  that  of  the  republic  established  in 
1923  under  the  leadership  of  Mustafa  Kemal  (1881-1938), 
called  Ataturk — the  "Father  Turk."  The  creation  of  the  new 
republic  in  the  heartland  of  the  old  Islamic  empire  was 
achieved  in  the  face  of  internal  traditionalist  opposition  and 
foreign  intervention.  Atatiirk's  goal  was  to  build  on  the  ruins  of 
Ottoman  Turkey  a  new  country  and  society  patterned  directly 
on  Western  Europe.  He  equated  Westernization  with  the  intro- 
duction of  technology,  the  modernization  of  administration, 
and  the  evolution  of  democratic  institutions. 

The  Turkish  horsemen  who  stormed  into  Anatolia  in  the 
eleventh  century  were  called  gazis  (warriors  of  the  faith),  but 
they  followed  their  tribal  leaders  to  win  booty  and  to  take  land 
as  well  as  to  spread  Islam.  The  Ottoman  Empire,  built  on  the 
conquests  of  the  gazis,  was  Islamic  but  not  specifically  Turkish. 
Engendered  in  reaction  to  this  Ottoman  universalism,  early 
Turkish  nationalism  was  often  pan-Turanian,  envisioning  a 
common  destiny  for  all  Turkic-speaking  peoples.  By  contrast, 
Ataturk  narrowed  the  focus  of  his  nationalism  to  the  Turks  of 
Turkey.  Under  his  influence,  twentieth-century  Turkish  histori- 
ography bypassed  the  Islamic  Ottoman  period  to  link  the  Turk- 
ish nation  with  ancient  Anatolia  in  such  a  way  that  the  Hittites, 
for  instance,  were  recognized  as  proto-Turks  from  whom  mod- 
ern Turks  can  trace  descent.  Although  contemporary  Turkey  is 
relatively  homogeneous  linguistically,  it  is  estimated  that  per- 
haps 75  percent  of  the  country's  genetic  pool  is  non-Turkish  in 
origin. 

Atatiirk's  ideological  legacy — known  as  Kemalism — consists 
of  the  "Six  Arrows":  republicanism,  nationalism,  populism, 
reformism,  etatism  (see  Glossary),  and  secularism.  These  prin- 
ciples have  been  embodied  in  successive  constitutions,  and 
appeals  for  both  reforms  and  retrenchment  have  been  made  in 
their  name. 

In  the  late  1940s,  Atatiirk's  long-time  lieutenant  and  succes- 
sor, Ismet  Inonu  (earlier  known  as  Ismet  Pasha),  introduced 
democratic  elections  and  opened  the  political  system  to  multi- 
party activity.  In  1950  the  Republican  People's  Party  (Cumhu- 
riyet  Halk  Partisi — CHP) — Atatiirk's  party — was  badly  defeated 
at  the  polls  by  the  new  Democrat  Party,  headed  by  Adnan  Men- 
deres.  The  Menderes  government  attempted  to  redirect  the 
economy,  allowing  for  greater  private  initiative,  and  was  more 
tolerant  of  traditional  religious  and  social  attitudes  in  the  coun- 
tryside. In  their  role  as  guardians  of  Kemalism,  military  leaders 


4 


Historical  Setting 


became  convinced  in  1960  that  the  Menderes  government  had 
departed  dangerously  from  the  principles  of  the  republic's 
founder,  and  overthrew  it  in  a  military  coup.  After  a  brief  inter- 
val of  military  rule,  a  new,  liberal  constitution  was  adopted  for 
the  so-called  Second  Republic,  and  the  government  returned 
to  civilian  hands. 

The  1960s  witnessed  coalition  governments  led,  until  1965, 
by  the  CHP  under  Inonu.  A  new  grouping — the  right-wing  Jus- 
tice Party  organized  under  Suleyman  Demirel  and  recognized 
as  the  successor  to  the  outlawed  Democrat  Party — came  to 
power  in  that  year.  In  opposition,  the  new  leader  of  the  CHP, 
Biilent  Ecevit,  introduced  a  platform  that  shifted  Atatiirk's 
party  leftward.  Political  factionalism  became  so  extreme  as  to 
prejudice  public  order  and  the  smooth  functioning  of  the  gov- 
ernment and  economy. 

In  1971  the  leaders  of  the  armed  forces  demanded  appoint- 
ment of  a  government  "above  parties"  charged  with  restoring 
law  and  order.  A  succession  of  nonparty  governments  came  to 
power,  but,  unable  to  gain  adequate  parliamentary  support, 
each  quickly  fell  during  a  period  of  political  instability  that 
lasted  until  1974.  Demirel  and  Ecevit  alternated  in  office  as 
head  of  government  during  the  remainder  of  the  1970s,  a 
period  marked  by  the  rise  of  political  extremism  and  religious 
revivalism,  terrorist  activities,  and  rapid  economic  changes 
accompanied  by  high  inflation  and  severe  unemployment.  The 
apparent  inability  of  parliamentary  government  to  deal  with 
the  situation  prompted  another  military  coup  in  1980,  led  by 
Chief  of  Staff  General  Kenan  Evren.  The  new  regime's 
National  Security  Council  acted  to  restore  order  and  stabilize 
the  economy.  It  also  moved  deliberately  toward  reinstating 
civilian  rule.  A  constitution  for  the  Third  Republic,  promul- 
gated in  1982,  increased  the  executive  authority  of  the  presi- 
dent and  provided  for  Evren's  appointment  to  a  seven-year 
term  in  that  office.  General  elections  to  the  new  National 
Assembly  held  the  following  year  enabled  Turgut  Ozal  to  form 
a  one-party  majority  government  that  promised  to  bring  stabil- 
ity to  the  political  process. 

In  two  subsequent  parliamentary  elections,  in  1987  and 
1991,  Turkey  demonstrated  a  commitment  to  pluralist  politics 
and  a  peaceful  transfer  of  power.  The  1991  election  ended  the 
eight-year  rule  of  Ozal's  Motherland  Party  and  brought  to 
power  the  True  Path  Party,  headed  by  Suleyman  Demirel. 
Upon  the  death  of  Ozal  in  1993,  Demirel  ascended  to  the  pres- 


5 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

idency,  and  Tansu  (filler  became  Turkey's  first  woman  prime 
minister. 

Ancient  Anatolia 

There  is  abundant  archaeological  evidence  of  a  thriving 
neolithic  culture  in  Anatolia  at  least  as  early  as  the  seventh  mil- 
lennium B.C.  What  may  have  been  the  world's  first  urban  set- 
tlement (dated  ca.  6500  B.C.)  has  been  uncovered  at 
Qatalhuyuk  in  the  Konya  Ovasi  (Konya  Basin).  Introduced 
early  in  the  third  millennium  B.C.,  metallurgy  made  possible  a 
flourishing  "copper  age"  (ca.  2500-2000  B.C.)  during  which 
cultural  patterns  throughout  the  region  were  remarkably  uni- 
form. The  use  of  bronze  weapons  and  implements  was  wide- 
spread by  2000  B.C.  Colonies  of  Assyrian  merchants,  who 
settled  in  Anatolia  during  the  copper  age,  provided  metal  for 
the  military  empires  of  Mesopotamia,  and  their  accounts  and 
business  correspondence  are  the  earliest  written  records  found 
in  Anatolia.  From  about  1500  B.C.,  southern  Anatolia,  which 
had  plentiful  sources  of  ore  and  numerous  furnace  sites,  devel- 
oped as  a  center  of  iron  production.  Two  of  the  area's  most  cel- 
ebrated archaeological  excavations  are  the  sites  at  Troy  and 
Hattusas  (Bogazkoy)  (see  fig.  2). 

The  cape  projecting  into  the  Aegean  between  the  Dar- 
danelles and  the  Gulf  of  Edremit  was  known  in  antiquity  as 
Troas.  There,  a  thirty-meter-high  mound  called  Hisarlik  was 
identified  as  the  site  of  ancient  Troy  in  diggings  begun  by  Ger- 
man archaeologist  Heinrich  Schliemann  in  the  1870s.  The  first 
five  levels  of  the  nine  discovered  at  Hisarlik  contained  remains 
of  cities  from  the  third  millennium  B.C.  that  controlled  access 
to  the  shortest  crossing  of  the  Dardanelles  and  that  probably 
derived  their  prosperity  from  tolls.  Artifacts  give  evidence  of 
1,000  years  of  cultural  continuity  in  the  cities  built  on  these  lev- 
els. A  sharp  break  with  the  past  occurred  on  the  sixth  level,  set- 
tled about  1900  B.C.  by  newcomers  believed  to  have  been 
related  to  the  early  Greeks.  Built  after  an  earthquake  devas- 
tated the  previous  city  about  1300  B.C.,  the  seventh  level  was 
clearly  the  victim  of  sacking  and  burning  about  1150  B.C.,  and 
it  is  recognized  as  having  been  the  Troy  of  Homer's  Iliad.  Hisar- 
lik subsequently  was  the  site  of  a  Greek  city,  Ilion,  and  a  Roman 
one,  Ilium. 

Hittites 

Late  in  the  third  millennium  B.C.,  waves  of  invaders  speak- 


6 


Historical  Setting 


ing  Indo-European  languages  crossed  the  Caucasus  Mountains 
into  Anatolia.  Among  them  were  the  bronze-working,  chariot- 
borne  warriors  who  conquered  and  settled  the  central  plain. 
Building  on  older  cultures,  these  invaders  borrowed  even  their 
name,  the  Hittites,  from  the  indigenous  Hatti  whom  they  had 
subjugated.  They  adopted  the  native  Hattic  deities  and  adapted 
to  their  written  language  the  cuneiform  alphabet  and  literary 
conventions  of  the  Semitic  cultures  of  Mesopotamia.  The  Hit- 
tites imposed  their  political  and  social  organization  on  their 
dominions  in  the  Anatolian  interior  and  northern  Syria,  where 
the  indigenous  peasantry  supported  the  Hittite  warrior  caste 
with  rents,  services,  and  taxes.  In  time  the  Hittites  won  reputa- 
tions as  merchants  and  statesmen  who  schooled  the  ancient 
Middle  East  in  both  commerce  and  diplomacy.  The  Hittite 
Empire  achieved  the  zenith  of  its  political  power  and  cultural 
accomplishment  in  the  fourteenth  and  thirteenth  centuries 
B.C.,  but  the  state  collapsed  after  1200  B.C.  when  the  Phry- 
gians, clients  of  the  Hittites,  rebelled  and  burned  Hattusas. 

Phrygians  and  Lydians 

The  twelfth  to  ninth  centuries  B.C.  were  a  time  of  turmoil 
throughout  Anatolia  and  the  Aegean  world.  The  destruction  of 
Troy,  Hattusas,  and  numerous  other  cities  in  the  region  was  a 
collective  disaster  that  coincided  with  the  rise  of  the  aggressive 
Assyrian  Empire  in  Mesopotamia,  the  Dorian  invasion  of 
Greece,  and  the  appearance  of  the  "sea  peoples"  who  ravaged 
the  Aegean  and  eastern  Mediterranean. 

The  first  light  to  penetrate  the  dark  age  in  Anatolia  was  lit  by 
the  very  Phrygians  who  had  destroyed  Hattusas.  Architects, 
builders,  and  skilled  workers  of  iron,  they  had  assimilated  the 
Hittites'  syncretic  culture  and  adopted  many  of  their  political 
institutions.  Phrygian  kings  apparently  ruled  most  of  western 
and  central  Anatolia  in  the  ninth  century  B.C.  from  their  capi- 
tal at  Gordium  (a  site  sixty  kilometers  southwest  of  modern 
Ankara).  Phrygian  strength  soon  waned,  however,  and  the 
kingdom  was  overthrown  in  the  seventh  century  B.C.  by  the 
Cimmerians,  a  nomadic  people  who  had  been  pursued  over 
the  Caucasus  into  Anatolia  by  the  Scythians. 

Order  was  restored  in  Anatolia  by  the  Lydians,  a  Thracian 
warrior  caste  who  dominated  the  indigenous  peasantry  and 
derived  their  great  wealth  from  alluvial  gold  found  in  the  tribu- 
taries of  the  Hermus  River  (Gediz  Nehri).  From  their  court  at 


7 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Historical  Setting 


Sardis,  such  Lydian  kings  as  Croesus  controlled  western  Anato- 
lia until  their  kingdom  fell  to  the  Persians  in  546  B.C. 

Armenians  and  Kurds 

The  Armenians  took  refuge  in  the  Lake  Van  region  in  the 
seventh  century  B.C.,  apparently  in  reaction  to  Cimmerian 
raids.  Their  country  was  described  by  Xenophon  around  400 
B.C.  as  a  tributary  of  Persia.  By  the  first  century  B.C.,  a  united 
Armenian  kingdom  that  stretched  from  the  Black  Sea  to  the 
Caspian  Sea  had  been  established  as  a  client  of  the  Roman 
Empire  to  buffer  the  frontier  with  Persia. 

Xenophon  also  recorded  the  presence  of  the  Kurds.  Con- 
temporary linguistic  evidence  has  challenged  the  previously 
held  view  that  the  Kurds  are  descendants  of  the  Medes, 
although  many  Kurds  still  accept  this  explanation  of  their  ori- 
gin. Kurdish  people  migrated  from  the  Eurasian  steppes  in  the 
second  millennium  B.C.  and  joined  indigenous  inhabitants  liv- 
ing in  the  region. 

Greeks 

The  Aegean  coast  of  Anatolia  was  an  integral  part  of  a 
Minoan-Mycenean  civilization  (ca.  2600-1200  B.C.)  that  drew 
its  cultural  impulses  from  Crete.  During  the  Aegean  region's 
so-called  Dark  Age  (ca.  1050-800  B.C.),  Ionian  Greek  refugees 
fled  across  the  sea  to  Anatolia,  then  under  Lydian  rule,  to 
escape  the  onslaught  of  the  Dorians.  Many  more  cities  were 
founded  along  the  Anatolian  coast  during  the  great  period  of 
Greek  expansion  after  the  eighth  century  B.C.  One  among 
them  was  Byzantium,  a  distant  colony  established  on  the 
Bosporus  by  the  city-state  of  Megara.  Despite  endemic  political 
unrest,  the  cities  founded  by  the  Ionians  and  subsequent  Greek 
settlers  prospered  from  commerce  with  Phrygia  and  Lydia, 
grew  in  size  and  number,  and  generated  a  renaissance  that  put 
Ionia  in  the  cultural  vanguard  of  the  Hellenic  world. 

At  first  the  Greeks  welcomed  the  Persians,  grateful  to  be 
freed  from  Lydian  control.  But  when  the  Persians  began  to 
impose  unpopular  tyrants  on  the  city-states,  the  Greeks 
rebelled  and  called  on  their  kinsmen  in  Greece  for  aid.  In  334 
B.C.,  Alexander  the  Great  crossed  the  Hellespont,  defeated  the 
Persians  at  the  Granicus  River  (Biga  Qayi),  and  during  four 
years  of  campaigning  liberated  the  Ionian  city-states,  incorpo- 
rating them  into  an  empire  that  at  his  death  in  323  B.C. 
stretched  from  the  Nile  to  the  Indus. 


9 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

After  Alexander  died,  control  of  Anatolia  was  contested  by 
several  of  the  Macedonian  generals  among  whom  his  empire 
was  divided.  By  280  B.C.  one  of  them,  Seleucus  Nicator,  had 
made  good  his  claim  to  an  extensive  kingdom  that  included 
southern  and  western  Anatolia  and  Thrace  as  well  as  Syria, 
Mesopotamia,  and,  for  a  time,  Persia.  Under  the  Seleucid 
Dynasty,  which  survived  until  64  B.C.,  colonists  were  brought 
from  Greece,  and  the  process  of  hellenization  was  extended 
among  the  non-Greek  elites. 

The  Seleucids  were  plagued  by  rebellions,  and  their  domains 
in  Anatolia  were  steadily  eaten  away  by  secession  and  attacks  by 
rival  Hellenistic  regimes.  Pergamum  became  independent  in 
262  B.C.,  during  the  Attalid  Dynasty,  and  won  fame  as  the  para- 
gon of  Hellenistic  states.  Noted  for  the  cleanliness  of  its  streets 
and  the  splendor  of  its  art,  Pergamum,  in  west-central  Anatolia, 
derived  its  extraordinary  wealth  from  trade  in  pitch,  parch- 
ment, and  perfume,  while  slave  labor  produced  a  food  surplus 
on  scientifically  managed  state  farms.  It  was  also  a  center  of 
learning  that  boasted  a  medical  school  and  a  library  second  in 
renown  only  to  that  of  Alexandria.  But  Pergamum  was  both 
despised  and  envied  by  the  other  Greek  states  because  of  its 
alliance  with  Rome. 

Rome  and  the  Byzantine  Empire 

The  last  of  the  Attalid  kings  bequeathed  Pergamum  to  his 
Roman  allies  upon  his  death  in  138  B.C.  Rome  organized  this 
extensive  territory  under  a  proconsul  as  the  province  of  Asia. 
All  of  Anatolia  except  Armenia,  which  was  a  Roman  client- 
state,  was  integrated  into  the  imperial  system  by  A.D.  43.  After 
the  accession  of  the  Roman  emperor  Augustus  (r.  27  B.C.-A.D. 
14),  and  for  generations  thereafter,  the  Anatolian  provinces 
enjoyed  prosperity  and  security.  The  cities  were  administered 
by  local  councils  and  sent  delegates  to  provincial  assemblies 
that  advised  the  Roman  governors.  Their  inhabitants  were  citi- 
zens of  a  cosmopolitan  world  state,  subject  to  a  common  legal 
system  and  sharing  a  common  Roman  identity.  Roman  in  alle- 
giance and  Greek  in  culture,  the  region  nonetheless  retained 
its  ethnic  complexity. 

In  A.D.  285,  the  emperor  Diocletian  undertook  the  reorga- 
nization of  the  Roman  Empire,  dividing  jurisdiction  between 
its  Latin-speaking  and  Greek-speaking  halves.  In  330  Dio- 
cletian's successor,  Constantine,  established  his  capital  at  the 
Greek  city  of  Byzantium,  a  "New  Rome"  strategically  situated 


10 


Historical  Setting 


on  the  European  side  of  the  Bosporus  at  its  entrance  to  the  Sea 
of  Marmara.  For  nearly  twelve  centuries  the  city,  embellished 
and  renamed  Constantinople,  remained  the  capital  of  the 
Roman  Empire — better  known  in  its  continuous  development 
in  the  East  as  the  Byzantine  Empire. 

Christianity  was  introduced  to  Anatolia  through  the  mission- 
ary activity  of  Saint  Paul,  a  Greek-speaking  Jew  from  Tarsus  in 
Cilicia,  and  his  companions.  Christians  possibly  even  consti- 
tuted a  majority  of  the  population  in  most  of  Anatolia  by  the 
time  Christianity  was  granted  official  toleration  under  the  Edict 
of  Milan  in  A.D.  313.  Before  the  end  of  the  fourth  century,  a 
patriarchate  was  established  in  Constantinople  with  ecclesiasti- 
cal jurisdiction  over  much  of  the  Greek  East.  The  basilica  of 
Hagia  Sophia  (Holy  Wisdom),  whose  construction  in  Constan- 
tinople was  ordered  by  Emperor  Justinian  in  532,  became  the 
spiritual  focus  of  Greek  Christendom. 

Although  Greek  in  language  and  culture,  the  Byzantine 
Empire  was  thoroughly  Roman  in  its  laws  and  administration. 
The  emperor's  Greek-speaking  subjects,  conscious  of  their 
imperial  vocation,  called  themselves  romaioi — Romans.  Almost 
until  the  end  of  its  long  history,  the  Byzantine  Empire  was  seen 
as  ecumenical — intended  to  encompass  all  Christian  peoples — 
rather  than  as  a  specifically  Greek  state. 

In  the  early  seventh  century,  the  emperor  in  Constantinople 
presided  over  a  realm  that  included  not  only  Greece  and  Ana- 
tolia but  Syria,  Egypt,  Sicily,  most  of  Italy,  and  the  Balkans,  with 
outposts  across  North  Africa  as  far  as  Morocco.  Anatolia  was 
the  most  productive  part  of  this  extensive  empire  and  was  also 
the  principal  reservoir  of  manpower  for  its  defense.  With  the 
loss  of  Syria  to  Muslim  conquest  in  the  seventh  century,  Anato- 
lia became  the  frontier  as  well  as  the  heartland  of  the  empire. 
The  military  demands  imposed  on  the  Byzantine  state  to  police 
its  provinces  and  defend  its  frontiers  were  enormous,  but 
despite  the  gradual  contraction  of  the  empire  and  frequent 
political  unrest,  Byzantine  forces  generally  remained  strong 
until  the  eleventh  century. 

Turkish  Origins 

The  first  historical  references  to  the  Turks  appear  in  Chi- 
nese records  dating  around  200  B.C.  These  records  refer  to 
tribes  called  the  Hsiung-nu  (an  early  form  of  the  Western  term 
Hun) ,  who  lived  in  an  area  bounded  by  the  Altai  Mountains, 
Lake  Baykal,  and  the  northern  edge  of  the  Gobi  Desert,  and 


1! 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Historical  Setting 


who  are  believed  to  have  been  the  ancestors  of  the  Turks  (see 
fig.  3).  Specific  references  in  Chinese  sources  in  the  sixth  cen- 
tury A.D.  identify  the  tribal  kingdom  called  Tu-Kue  located  on 
the  Orkhon  River  south  of  Lake  Baykal.  The  khans  (chiefs)  of 
this  tribe  accepted  the  nominal  suzerainty  of  the  Tang  Dynasty. 
The  earliest  known  example  of  writing  in  a  Turkic  language 
was  found  in  that  area  and  has  been  dated  around  A.D.  730. 

Other  Turkish  nomads  from  the  Altai  region  founded  the 
Gortiirk  Empire,  a  confederation  of  tribes  under  a  dynasty  of 
khans  whose  influence  extended  during  the  sixth  through 
eighth  centuries  from  the  Aral  Sea  to  the  Hindu  Kush  in  the 
land  bridge  known  as  Transoxania  (i.e.,  across  the  Oxus  River). 
The  Gorturks  are  known  to  have  been  enlisted  by  a  Byzantine 
emperor  in  the  seventh  century  as  allies  against  the  Sassanians. 
In  the  eighth  century,  separate  Turkish  tribes,  among  them  the 
Oguz,  moved  south  of  the  Oxus  River,  while  others  migrated 
west  to  the  northern  shore  of  the  Black  Sea. 

Great  Seljuks 

The  Turkish  migrations  after  the  sixth  century  were  part  of  a 
general  movement  of  peoples  out  of  central  Asia  during  the 
first  millennium  A.D.  that  was  influenced  by  a  number  of  inter- 
related factors — climatic  changes,  the  strain  of  growing  popula- 
tions on  a  fragile  pastoral  economy,  and  pressure  from 
stronger  neighbors  also  on  the  move.  Among  those  who 
migrated  were  the  Oguz  Turks,  who  had  embraced  Islam  in  the 
tenth  century.  They  established  themselves  around  Bukhara  in 
Transoxania  under  their  khan,  Seljuk.  Split  by  dissension 
among  the  tribes,  one  branch  of  the  Oguz,  led  by  descendants 
of  Seljuk,  moved  west  and  entered  service  with  the  Abbasid 
caliphs  of  Baghdad. 

The  Turkish  horsemen,  known  as  gazis,  were  organized  into 
tribal  bands  to  defend  the  frontiers  of  the  caliphate,  often 
against  their  own  kinsmen.  However,  in  1055  a  Seljuk  khan, 
Tugrul  Bey,  occupied  Baghdad  at  the  head  of  an  army  com- 
posed of  gazis  and  mamluks  (slave-soldiers,  a  number  of  whom 
became  military  leaders  and  rulers).  Tugrul  forced  the  caliph 
(the  spiritual  leader  of  Islam)  to  recognize  him  as  sultan,  or 
temporal  leader,  in  Persia  and  Mesopotamia.  While  they 
engaged  in  state  building,  the  Seljuks  also  emerged  as  the 
champions  of  Sunni  (see  Glossary)  Islam  against  the  religion's 
Shia  (see  Glossary)  sect.  Tugrul's  successor,  Mehmet  ibn  Daud 
(r.  1063-72) — better  known  as  Alp  Arslan,  the  "Lion  Hero" — 


13 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

prepared  for  a  campaign  against  the  Shia  Fatimid  caliphate  in 
Egypt  but  was  forced  to  divert  his  attention  to  Anatolia  by  the 
gazis,  on  whose  endurance  and  mobility  the  Seljuks  depended. 
The  Seljuk  elite  could  not  persuade  these  gazis  to  live  within 
the  framework  of  a  bureaucratic  Persian  state,  content  with  col- 
lecting taxes  and  patrolling  ttade  routes.  Each  year  the  gazis  cut 
deeper  into  Byzantine  territory,  raiding  and  taking  booty 
according  to  their  tradition.  Some  served  as  mercenaries  in  the 
private  wars  of  Byzantine  nobles  and  occasionally  settled  on 
land  they  had  taken.  The  Seljuks  followed  the  gazis  into  Anato- 
lia in  order  to  retain  control  over  them.  In  1071  Alp  Arslan 
routed  the  Byzantine  army  at  Manzikert  near  Lake  Van,  open- 
ing all  of  Anatolia  to  conquest  by  the  Turks. 

Armenia  had  been  annexed  by  the  Byzantine  Empire  in 
1045,  but  religious  animosity  between  the  Armenians  and  the 
Greeks  prevented  these  two  Christian  peoples  from  cooperat- 
ing against  the  Turks  on  the  frontier.  Although  Christianity 
had  been  adopted  as  the  official  religion  of  the  state  by  King 
Titidates  III  around  A.D.  300,  nearly  100  years  before  similar 
action  was  taken  in  the  Roman  Empire,  Armenians  were  con- 
verted to  a  form  of  Christianity  at  variance  with  the  Orthodox 
tradition  of  the  Greek  church,  and  they  had  their  own  patri- 
archate independent  of  Constantinople.  After  their  conquest 
by  the  Sassanians  around  400,  their  religion  bound  them 
together  as  a  nation  and  provided  the  inspiration  for  a  flower- 
ing of  Armenian  culture  in  the  fifth  century.  When  their  home- 
land fell  to  the  Seljuks  in  the  late  eleventh  century,  large 
numbers  of  Armenians  were  dispersed  throughout  the  Byzan- 
tine Empire,  many  of  them  settling  in  Constantinople,  where 
in  its  centuries  of  decline  they  became  generals  and  statesmen 
as  well  as  craftsmen,  builders,  and  traders. 

Sultanate  of  Rum 

Within  ten  years  of  the  Battle  of  Manzikert,  the  Seljuks  had 
won  control  of  most  of  Anatolia.  Although  successful  in  the 
west,  the  Seljuk  sultanate  in  Baghdad  reeled  under  attacks 
from  the  Mongols  in  the  east  and  was  unable — indeed  unwill- 
ing— to  exert  its  authority  directly  in  Anatolia.  The  gazis  carved 
out  a  number  of  states  there,  under  the  nominal  suzerainty  of 
Baghdad,  states  that  were  continually  reinforced  by  further 
Turkish  immigration.  The  strongest  of  these  states  to  emerge 
was  the  Seljuk  sultanate  of  Rum  ("Rome,"  i.e.,  Byzantine 
Empire),  which  had  its  capital  at  Konya  (Iconium).  During  the 


14 


Historical  Setting 


twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries,  Rum  became  dominant  over 
the  other  Turkish  states  (see  fig.  4). 

The  society  and  economy  of  the  Anatolian  countryside  were 
unchanged  by  the  Seljuks,  who  had  simply  replaced  Byzantine 
officials  with  a  new  elite  that  was  Turkish  and  Muslim.  Conver- 
sion to  Islam  and  the  imposition  of  the  language,  mores,  and 
customs  of  the  Turks  progressed  steadily  in  the  countryside, 
facilitated  by  intermarriage.  The  cleavage  widened,  however, 
between  the  unruly  gazi  warriors  and  the  state-building  bureau- 
cracy in  Konya. 

The  Crusades 

The  success  of  the  Seljuk  Turks  stimulated  a  response  from 
Latin  Europe  in  the  form  of  the  First  Crusade.  A  counteroffen- 
sive  launched  in  1097  by  the  Byzantine  emperor  with  the  aid  of 
the  crusaders  dealt  the  Seljuks  a  decisive  defeat.  Konya  fell  to 
the  crusaders,  and  after  a  few  years  of  campaigning  Byzantine 
rule  was  restored  in  the  western  third  of  Anatolia. 

Although  a  Turkish  revival  in  the  1140s  nullified  many  of  the 
Christian  gains,  greater  damage  was  done  to  Byzantine  security 
by  dynastic  strife  in  Constantinople  in  which  the  largely  French 
contingents  of  the  Fourth  Crusade  and  their  Venetian  allies 
intervened.  In  1204  these  crusaders  installed  Count  Baldwin  of 
Flanders  in  the  Byzantine  capital  as  emperor  of  the  so-called 
Latin  Empire  of  Constantinople,  dismembering  the  old  realm 
into  tributary  states  where  West  European  feudal  institutions 
were  transplanted  intact.  Independent  Greek  kingdoms  were 
established  at  Nicaea  and  Trebizond  (present-day  Trabzon) 
and  in  Epirus  from  remnant  Byzantine  provinces.  Turks  allied 
with  Greeks  in  Anatolia  against  the  Latins,  and  Greeks  with 
Turks  against  the  Mongols.  In  1261  Michael  Palaeologus  of 
Nicaea  drove  the  Latins  from  Constantinople  and  restored  the 
Byzantine  Empire,  but  as  an  essentially  Balkan  state  reduced  in 
size  to  Thrace  and  northwestern  Anatolia. 

Seljuk  Rum  survived  in  the  late  thirteenth  century  as  a  vassal 
state  of  the  Mongols,  who  had  already  subjugated  the  Great  Sel- 
juk sultanate  at  Baghdad.  Mongol  influence  in  the  region  had 
disappeared  by  the  1330s,  leaving  behind  gazi  amirates  compet- 
ing for  supremacy.  From  the  chaotic  conditions  that  prevailed 
throughout  the  Middle  East,  however,  a  new  power  emerged  in 
Anatolia — the  Ottoman  Turks. 


15 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Historical  Setting 


The  Ottoman  Empire 

Documentation  of  the  early  history  of  the  Ottomans  is 
scarce.  According  to  semilegendary  accounts,  Ertugrul,  khan 
of  the  Kayi  tribe  of  the  Oguz  Turks,  took  service  with  the  sultan 
of  Rum  at  the  head  of  a  gazi  force  numbering  "400  tents."  He 
was  granted  territory — if  he  could  seize  and  hold  it — in 
Bithynia,  facing  the  Byzantine  strongholds  at  Bursa,  Nicomedia 
(Izmit),  and  Nicaea.  Leadership  subsequently  passed  to 
Ertugrul's  son,  Osman  I  (r.  ca.  1284-1324),  founder  of  the 
Osmanli  Dynasty — better  known  in  the  West  as  the  Ottomans. 
This  dynasty  was  to  endure  for  six  centuries  through  the  reigns 
of  thirty-six  sultans  (see  table  2,  Appendix  A). 

Osman  Fs  small  amir  ate  attracted  gazis  from  other  amirates, 
who  required  plunder  from  new  conquests  to  maintain  their 
way  of  life.  Such  growth  gave  the  Ottoman  state  a  military  stat- 
ure that  was  out  of  proportion  to  its  size.  Acquiring  the  title  of 
sultan,  Osman  I  organized  a  politically  centralized  administra- 
tion that  subordinated  the  activities  of  the  gazis  to  its  needs  and 
facilitated  rapid  territorial  expansion.  Bursa  fell  in  the  final 
year  of  his  reign.  His  successor,  Orhan  (r.  1324-60),  crossed  the 
Dardanelles  in  force  and  established  a  permanent  European 
base  at  Gallipoli  in  1354.  Murad  I  (r.  1360-89)  annexed  most  of 
Thrace  (called  Rumelia,  or  "Roman  land,"  by  the  Turks),  encir- 
cling Constantinople,  and  moved  the  seat  of  Ottoman  govern- 
ment to  Adrianople  (Edirne)  in  Europe.  In  1389  the  Ottoman 
gazis  defeated  the  Serbs  at  the  Battle  of  Kosovo,  although  at  the 
cost  of  Murad's  life.  The  steady  stream  of  Ottoman  victories  in 
the  Balkans  continued  under  Bayezid  I  (r.  1389-1402).  Bul- 
garia was  subdued  in  1393,  and  in  1396  a  French-led  force  of 
crusaders  that  had  crossed  the  Danube  from  Hungary  was 
annihilated  at  Nicopolis  (see  fig.  5). 

In  Anatolia,  where  Ottoman  policy  had  been  directed 
toward  consolidating  the  sultan's  hold  over  the  gazi  amirates  by 
means  of  conquest,  usurpation,  and  purchase,  the  Ottomans 
were  confronted  by  the  forces  of  the  Mongol  leader  Timur 
(Tamerlane),  to  whom  many  of  the  Turkish  gazis  had  defected. 
Timur  crushed  Ottoman  forces  near  Ankara  in  1402  and  cap- 
tured Bayezid  I.  The  unfortunate  sultan  died  in  captivity  the 
next  year,  leaving  four  heirs,  who  for  a  decade  competed  for 
control  of  what  remained  of  Ottoman  Anatolia.  By  the  1420s, 
however,  Ottoman  power  had  revived  to  the  extent  that  fresh 
campaigns  were  undertaken  in  Greece. 


17 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


18 


Historical  Setting 


Aside  from  scattered  outposts  in  Greece,  all  that  remained  of 
the  Byzantine  Empire  was  its  capital,  Constantinople.  Cut  off  by 
land  since  1365,  the  city,  despite  long  periods  of  truce  with  the 
Turks,  was  supplied  and  reinforced  by  Venetian  traders  who 
controlled  its  commerce  by  sea.  On  becoming  sultan  in  1444, 
Mehmet  II  (r.  1444-46,  1451-81)  immediately  set  out  to  con- 
quer the  city.  The  military  campaigning  season  of  1453  com- 
menced with  the  fifty-day  siege  of  Constantinople,  during 
which  Mehmet  II  brought  warships  overland  on  greased  run- 
ners into  the  Bosporus  inlet  known  as  the  Golden  Horn  to 
bypass  the  chain  barrage  and  fortresses  that  had  blocked  the 
entrance  to  Constantinople's  harbor.  On  May  29,  the  Turks 
fought  their  way  through  the  gates  of  the  city  and  brought  the 
siege  to  a  successful  conclusion. 

As  an  isolated  military  action,  the  taking  of  Constantinople 
did  not  have  a  critical  effect  on  European  security,  but  to  the 
Ottoman  Dynasty  the  capture  of  the  imperial  capital  was  of 
supreme  symbolic  importance.  Mehmet  II  regarded  himself  as 
the  direct  successor  to  the  Byzantine  emperors.  He  made  Con- 
stantinople the  imperial  capital,  as  it  had  been  under  the  Byz- 
antine emperors,  and  set  about  rebuilding  the  city.  The 
cathedral  of  Hagia  Sophia  was  converted  to  a  mosque,  and 
Constantinople — which  the  Turks  called  Istanbul  (from  the 
Greek  phrase  eis  tin  polin,  "to  the  city") — replaced  Baghdad  as 
the  center  of  Sunni  Islam.  The  city  also  remained  the  ecclesias- 
tical center  of  the  Greek  Orthodox  Church,  of  which  Mehmet 
II  proclaimed  himself  the  protector  and  for  which  he 
appointed  a  new  patriarch  after  the  custom  of  the  Byzantine 
emperors. 

Ottoman  Institutions 

At  the  apex  of  the  hierarchical  Ottoman  system  was  the  sul- 
tan, who  acted  in  political,  military,  judicial,  social,  and  reli- 
gious capacities,  under  a  variety  of  titles.  He  was  theoretically 
responsible  only  to  God  and  God's  law — the  Islamic  serial  (in 
Arabic,  sharia) ,  of  which  he  was  the  chief  executor.  All  offices 
were  filled  by  his  authority,  and  every  law  was  issued  by  him  in 
the  form  of  a  firman  (decree).  He  was  supreme  military  com- 
mander and  had  official  title  to  all  land.  During  the  early  six- 
teenth-century Ottoman  expansion  in  Arabia,  Selim  I  also 
adopted  the  title  of  caliph,  thus  indicating  that  he  was  the  uni- 
versal Muslim  ruler.  Although  theocratic  and  absolute  in  the- 
ory and  in  principle,  the  sultan's  powers  were  in  practice 


19 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

limited.  The  attitudes  of  important  members  of  the  dynasty, 
the  bureaucratic  and  military  establishments,  and  religious 
leaders  had  to  be  considered. 

Three  characteristics  were  necessary  for  acceptance  into  the 
ruling  class:  Islamic  faith,  loyalty  to  the  sultan,  and  compliance 
with  the  standards  of  behavior  of  the  Ottoman  court.  The  last 
qualification  effectively  excluded  the  majority  of  common 
Turks,  whose  language  and  manners  were  very  different  from 
those  of  the  Ottomans.  The  language  of  the  court  and  govern- 
ment was  Ottoman  Turkish,  a  highly  formalized  hybrid  lan- 
guage that  included  Persian  and  Arabic  loanwords.  In  time 
Greeks,  Armenians,  and  Jews  were  also  employed  in  state  ser- 
vice, usually  in  diplomatic,  technical,  or  commercial  capacities. 

The  day-to-day  conduct  of  government  and  the  formulation 
of  policy  were  in  the  hands  of  the  divan,  a  relatively  small  coun- 
cil of  ministers  directed  by  the  chief  minister,  the  grand  vizier. 
The  entranceway  to  the  public  buildings  in  which  the  divan 
met — and  which  in  the  seventeenth  century  became  the  resi- 
dence of  the  grand  vizier — was  called  the  Bab-i  Ali  (High  Gate, 
or  Sublime  Porte).  In  diplomatic  correspondence,  the  term 
Porte  was  synonymous  with  the  Ottoman  government,  a  usage 
that  acknowledged  the  power  wielded  by  the  grand  vizier. 

The  Ottoman  Empire  had  Turkish  origins  and  Islamic  foun- 
dations, but  from  the  start  it  was  a  heterogeneous  mixture  of 
ethnic  groups  and  religious  creeds.  Ethnicity  was  determined 
solely  by  religious  affiliation.  Non-Muslim  peoples,  including 
Greeks,  Armenians,  and  Jews,  were  recognized  as  millets  (see 
Glossary)  and  were  granted  communal  autonomy.  Such  groups 
were  allowed  to  operate  schools,  religious  establishments,  and 
courts  based  on  their  own  customary  law. 

Selim  I  and  Suleyman  the  Magnificent 

Selim  I  (r.  1512-20)  extended  Ottoman  sovereignty  south- 
ward, conquering  Syria,  Palestine,  and  Egypt.  He  also  gained 
recognition  as  guardian  of  the  holy  cities  of  Mecca  and 
Medina. 

Selim  I's  son,  Suleyman  I  (r.  1520-66),  was  called  the  "law- 
giver" (kanuni)  by  his  Muslim  subjects  because  of  a  new  codifi- 
cation of  seriat  undertaken  during  his  reign.  In  Europe, 
however,  he  was  known  as  Suleyman  the  Magnificent,  a  recog- 
nition of  his  prowess  by  those  who  had  most  to  fear  from  it.  Bel- 
grade fell  to  Suleyman  in  1521,  and  in  1522  he  compelled  the 
Knights  of  Saint  John  to  abandon  Rhodes.  In  1526  the  Otto- 


20 


Historical  Setting 


man  victory  at  the  Battle  of  Mohacs  led  to  the  taking  of  Buda 
on  the  Danube.  Vienna  was  besieged  unsuccessfully  during  the 
campaign  season  of  1529.  North  Africa  up  to  the  Moroccan 
frontier  was  brought  under  Ottoman  suzerainty  in  the  1520s 
and  1530s,  and  governors  named  by  the  sultan  were  installed  in 
Algiers,  Tunis,  and  Tripoli.  In  1534  Kurdistan  and  Mesopo- 
tamia were  taken  from  Persia.  The  latter  conquest  gave  the 
Ottomans  an  outlet  to  the  Persian  Gulf,  where  they  were  soon 
engaged  in  a  naval  war  with  the  Portuguese. 

When  Suleyman  died  in  1566,  the  Ottoman  Empire  was  a 
world  power.  Most  of  the  great  cities  of  Islam — Mecca,  Medina, 
Jerusalem,  Damascus,  Cairo,  Tunis,  and  Baghdad — were  under 
the  sultan's  crescent  flag.  The  Porte  exercised  direct  control 
over  Anatolia,  the  sub-Danubian  Balkan  provinces,  Syria,  Pales- 
tine, and  Mesopotamia.  Egypt,  Mecca,  and  the  North  African 
provinces  were  governed  under  special  regulations,  as  were  sat- 
ellite domains  in  Arabia  and  the  Caucasus,  and  among  the 
Crimean  Tartars.  In  addition,  the  native  rulers  of  Wallachia, 
Moldavia,  Transylvania,  and  Ragusa  (Dubrovnik)  were  vassals 
of  the  sultan. 

The  Ottomans  had  always  dealt  with  the  European  states 
from  a  position  of  strength.  Treaties  with  them  took  the  form 
of  truces  approved  by  the  sultan  as  a  favor  to  lesser  princes, 
provided  that  payment  of  tribute  accompanied  the  settlement. 
The  Ottomans  were  slow  to  recognize  the  shift  in  the  military 
balance  to  Europe  and  the  reasons  for  it.  They  also  increasingly 
permitted  European  commerce  to  penetrate  the  barriers  built 
to  protect  imperial  autarky.  Some  native  craft  industries  were 
destroyed  by  the  influx  of  European  goods,  and,  in  general,  the 
balance  of  trade  shifted  to  the  disadvantage  of  the  empire, 
making  it  in  time  an  indebted  client  of  European  producers. 

European  political  intervention  followed  economic  penetra- 
tion. In  1536  the  Ottoman  Empire,  then  at  the  height  of  its 
power,  had  voluntarily  granted  concessions  to  France,  but  the 
system  of  capitulations  introduced  at  that  time  was  later  used  to 
impose  important  limitations  on  Ottoman  sovereignty.  Com- 
mercial privileges  were  greatly  extended,  and  residents  who 
came  under  the  protection  of  a  treaty  country  were  thereby 
made  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  that  country's  law  rather 
than  Ottoman  law,  an  arrangement  that  led  to  flagrant  abuses 
of  justice.  The  last  thirty  years  of  the  sixteenth  century  saw  the 
rapid  onset  of  a  decline  in  Ottoman  power  symbolized  by  the 
defeat  of  the  Turkish  fleet  by  the  Spanish  and  Portuguese  at 


21 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

the  Battle  of  Lepanto  in  1571  and  by  the  unbridled  bloody  suc- 
cession struggles  within  the  imperial  palace,  the  Seraglio  of 
Constantinople. 

Koprulu  Era 

Ottoman  imperial  decadence  was  finally  halted  by  a  notable 
family  of  imperial  bureaucrats,  the  Koprulu  family,  which  for 
more  than  forty  years  (1656-1703)  provided  the  empire  with 
grand  viziers,  combining  ambition  and  ruthlessness  with  genu- 
ine talent.  Mehmet,  followed  by  his  son  Ahmet,  overhauled  the 
bureaucracy  and  instituted  military  reforms.  Crete  and  Lem- 
nos  were  taken  from  Venice,  and  large  provinces  in  Ukraine 
were  wrested  temporarily  from  Poland  and  Russia.  The 
Koprulu  family  also  resumed  the  offensive  against  Austria, 
pushing  the  Ottoman  frontier  to  within  120  kilometers  of 
Vienna.  An  attempt  in  1664  to  capture  the  Habsburg  capital 
was  beaten  back,  but  Ahmet  Koprulu  extorted  a  huge  tribute  as 
the  price  of  a  nineteen-year  truce.  When  it  expired  in  1683,  the 
Ottoman  army  again  invaded  Austria,  laying  siege  to  Vienna 
for  two  months,  only  to  be  routed  ultimately  by  a  relief  force 
led  by  the  king  of  Poland,  Jan  Sobieski. 

The  siege  of  Vienna  was  the  high-water  mark  of  Ottoman 
expansion  in  Europe,  and  its  failure  opened  Hungary  to  recon- 
quest  by  the  European  powers.  In  a  ruinous  sixteen-year  war, 
Russia  and  the  Holy  League — composed  of  Austria,  Poland, 
and  Venice,  and  organized  under  the  aegis  of  the  pope — finally 
drove  the  Ottomans  south  of  the  Danube  and  east  of  the  Car- 
pathians. Under  the  terms  of  the  Treaty  of  Karlowitz  in  1699, 
the  first  in  which  the  Ottomans  acknowledged  defeat,  Hun- 
gary, Transylvania,  and  Croatia  were  formally  relinquished  to 
Austria.  Poland  recovered  Podolia,  and  Dalmatia  and  the 
Morea  were  ceded  to  Venice.  In  a  separate  peace  the  next  year, 
Russia  received  the  Azov  region  (see  fig.  6). 

The  last  of  the  Koprulu  rulers  fell  from  power  when  Mustafa 
II  (r.  1695-1703)  was  forced  by  rebellious  janissaries  to  abdi- 
cate. Under  Ahmet  III  (r.  1703-30),  effective  control  of  the 
government  passed  to  the  military  leaders.  Ahmet  Ill's  reign  is 
referred  to  as  the  "tulip  period"  because  of  the  popularity  of 
tulip  cultivation  in  Istanbul  during  those  years.  At  this  time, 
Peter  the  Great  of  Russia  moved  to  eliminate  the  Ottoman 
presence  on  the  north  shore  of  the  Black  Sea.  Russia's  main 
objective  in  the  region  subsequently  was  to  win  access  to  warm- 
water  ports  on  the  Black  Sea  and  then  to  obtain  an  opening  to 


22 


Historical  Setting 


the  Mediterranean  through  the  Ottoman-controlled  Bosporus 
and  Dardanelles  straits.  Despite  territorial  gains  at  Ottoman 
expense,  however,  Russia  was  unable  to  achieve  these  goals, 
and  the  Black  Sea  remained  for  the  time  an  "Ottoman  lake"  on 
which  Russian  warships  were  prohibited. 

External  Threats  and  Internal  Transformations 

During  the  eighteenth  century,  the  Ottoman  Empire  was 
almost  continuously  at  war  with  one  or  more  of  its  enemies — 
Persia,  Poland,  Austria,  and  Russia.  Under  the  humiliating 
terms  of  the  Treaty  of  Kuchuk-Kaynarja  that  ended  the  Russo- 
Ottoman  War  of  1768-74,  the  Porte  abandoned  the  Tartar  kha- 
nate in  the  Crimea,  granted  autonomy  to  the  Trans-Danubian 
provinces,  allowed  Russian  ships  free  access  to  Ottoman  waters, 
and  agreed  to  pay  a  large  war  indemnity. 

The  implications  of  the  decline  of  Ottoman  power,  the  vul- 
nerability and  attractiveness  of  the  empire's  vast  holdings,  the 
stirrings  of  nationalism  among  its  subject  peoples,  and  the  peri- 
odic crises  resulting  from  these  and  other  factors  became  col- 
lectively known  to  European  diplomats  in  the  nineteenth 
century  as  "the  Eastern  Question."  In  1853  Tsar  Nicholas  I  of 
Russia  described  the  Ottoman  Empire  as  "the  sick  man  of 
Europe."  The  problem  from  the  viewpoint  of  European  diplo- 
macy was  how  to  dispose  of  the  empire  in  such  a  manner  that 
no  one  power  would  gain  an  advantage  at  the  expense  of  the 
others  and  upset  the  political  balance  of  Europe. 

The  first  nineteenth-century  crisis  to  bring  about  European 
intervention  was  the  Greek  War  of  Independence  (1821-32). 
In  1827  an  Anglo-French  fleet  destroyed  the  Ottoman  and 
Egyptian  fleets  at  the  Battle  of  Navarino,  while  the  Russian 
army  advanced  as  far  as  Edirne  before  a  cease-fire  was  called  in 
1829.  The  European  powers  forced  the  Porte  to  recognize 
Greek  independence  under  the  London  Convention  of  1832. 

Muhammad  Ali,  an  Ottoman  officer  who  had  been  desig- 
nated pasha  of  Egypt  by  the  sultan  in  1805,  had  given  substan- 
tial aid  to  the  Ottoman  cause  in  the  Greek  war.  When  he  was 
not  rewarded  as  promised  for  his  assistance,  he  invaded  Syria  in 
1831  and  pursued  the  retreating  Ottoman  army  deep  into  Ana- 
tolia. In  desperation,  the  Porte  appealed  to  Russia  for  support. 
Britain  then  intervened,  constraining  Muhammad  Ali  to  with- 
draw from  Anatolia  to  Syria.  The  price  the  sultan  paid  Russia 
for  its  assistance  was  the  Treaty  of  Hiinkar  Iskelesi  of  1833. 


23 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Historical  Setting 


Under  this  treaty,  the  Bosporus  and  Dardanelles  straits  were  to 
be  closed  on  Russian  demand  to  naval  vessels  of  other  powers. 

War  with  Muhammad  Ali  resumed  in  1839,  and  Ottoman 
forces  were  again  defeated.  Russia  waived  its  rights  under  the 
1833  treaty  and  aligned  itself  with  British  efforts  to  support  the 
Ottoman  Empire  militarily  and  diplomatically.  Under  the  Lon- 
don Convention  of  1840,  Muhammad  Ali  was  forced  to  aban- 
don his  claim  to  Syria,  but  he  was  recognized  as  hereditary 
ruler  of  Egypt  under  nominal  Ottoman  suzerainty.  Under  an 
additional  protocol,  in  1841  the  Porte  undertook  to  close  the 
straits  to  warships  of  all  powers. 

The  Ottoman  Empire  fought  two  more  wars  with  Russia  in 
the  nineteenth  century.  The  Crimean  War  (1854-56)  pitted 
France,  Britain,  and  the  Ottoman  Empire  against  Russia. 
Under  the  Treaty  of  Paris,  which  ended  the  war,  Russia  aban- 
doned its  claim  to  protect  Orthodox  Christians  in  the  Ottoman 
Empire  and  renounced  the  right  to  intervene  in  the  Balkans. 
War  resumed  between  Russia  and  the  Ottoman  Empire  in 
1877.  Russia  opened  hostilities  in  response  to  Ottoman  sup- 
pression of  uprisings  in  Bulgaria  and  to  the  threat  posed  to  Ser- 
bia by  Ottoman  forces.  The  Russian  army  had  driven  through 
Bulgaria  and  reached  as  far  as  Edirne  when  the  Porte  acceded 
to  the  terms  imposed  by  a  new  agreement,  the  Treaty  of  San 
Stefano.  The  treaty  reduced  Ottoman  holdings  in  Europe  to 
eastern  Thrace  and  created  a  large,  independent  Bulgarian 
state  under  Russian  protection. 

Refusing  to  accept  the  dominant  position  of  Russia  in  the 
Balkans,  the  other  European  powers  called  the  Congress  of 
Berlin  in  1878.  At  this  conclave,  the  Europeans  agreed  to  a 
much  smaller  autonomous  Bulgarian  state  under  nominal 
Ottoman  suzerainty.  Serbia  and  Romania  were  recognized  as 
fully  independent  states,  and  the  Ottoman  provinces  of  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina  were  placed  under  Austrian  administration. 
Cyprus,  although  remaining  technically  part  of  the  Ottoman 
Empire,  became  a  British  protectorate.  For  all  its  wartime  exer- 
tions, Russia  received  only  minor  territorial  concessions  in 
Bessarabia  and  the  Caucasus.  In  the  course  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  France  seized  Algeria  and  Tunisia,  while  Britain  began 
its  occupation  of  Egypt  in  1882.  In  all  these  cases,  the  occupied 
territories  formerly  had  belonged  to  the  Ottoman  Empire. 

The  Ottoman  Empire  had  a  dual  economy  in  the  nineteenth 
century  consisting  of  a  large  subsistence  sector  and  a  small 
colonial-style  commercial  sector  linked  to  European  markets 


25 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

and  controlled  by  foreign  interests.  The  empire's  first  railroads, 
for  example,  were  built  by  foreign  investors  to  bring  the  cash 
crops  of  Anatolia's  coastal  valleys — tobacco,  grapes,  and  other 
fruit — to  Smyrna  (Izmir)  for  processing  and  export.  The  cost 
of  maintaining  a  modern  army  without  a  thorough  reform  of 
economic  institutions  caused  expenditures  to  be  made  in 
excess  of  tax  revenues.  Heavy  borrowing  from  foreign  banks  in 
the  1870s  to  reinforce  the  treasury  and  the  undertaking  of  new 
loans  to  pay  the  interest  on  older  ones  created  a  financial  crisis 
that  in  1881  obliged  the  Porte  to  surrender  administration  of 
the  Ottoman  debt  to  a  commission  representing  foreign  inves- 
tors. The  debt  commission  collected  public  revenues  and  trans- 
ferred the  receipts  directly  to  creditors  in  Europe. 

The  1860s  and  early  1870s  saw  the  emergence  of  the  Young 
Ottoman  movement  among  Western-oriented  intellectuals  who 
wanted  to  see  the  empire  accepted  as  an  equal  by  the  Euro- 
pean powers.  They  sought  to  adopt  Western  political  institu- 
tions, including  an  efficient  centralized  government,  an 
elected  parliament,  and  a  written  constitution.  The  "Ottoman- 
ism"  they  advocated  also  called  for  an  integrated  dynastic  state 
that  would  subordinate  Islam  to  secular  interests  and  allow 
non-Muslim  subjects  to  participate  in  representative  parliamen- 
tary institutions. 

In  1876  the  hapless  sultan  was  deposed  by  a  fetva  (legal  opin- 
ion) obtained  by  Midhat  Pasha,  a  reformist  minister  sympa- 
thetic to  the  aims  of  the  Young  Ottomans.  His  successor,  Abdul 
Hamid  II  (r.  1876-1909),  came  to  the  throne  with  the  approval 
of  Midhat  and  other  reformers.  In  December  of  that  year,  on 
the  eve  of  the  war  with  Russia,  the  new  sultan  promulgated  a 
constitution,  based  on  European  models,  that  had  been 
drafted  by  senior  political,  military,  and  religious  officials 
under  Midhat's  direction.  Embodying  the  substance  of  the 
Young  Ottoman  program,  this  document  created  a  representa- 
tive parliament,  guaranteed  religious  liberty,  and  provided  for 
enlarged  freedom  of  expression.  Abdul  Hamid  IPs  acceptance 
of  constitutionalism  was  a  temporary  tactical  expedient  to  gain 
the  throne,  however.  Midhat  was  dismissed  in  February  1877 
and  was  later  murdered.  The  sultan  called  the  empire's  first 
parliament  but  dissolved  it  within  a  year. 

Unrest  in  Eastern  Rumelia  led  the  European  powers  to  insist 
on  the  union  of  that  province  with  Bulgaria  in  1885.  Mean- 
while, Greek  and  Bulgarian  partisans  were  carrying  on  a  run- 
ning battle  with  Ottoman  forces  in  Macedonia.  In  addition,  the 


26 


Historical  Setting 


repression  of  revolutionary  activities  in  Armenia  during  1894- 
96  cost  about  300,000  lives  and  aroused  European  public  opin- 
ion against  the  Ottoman  regime.  Outside  support  for  a  rebel- 
lion on  Crete  also  caused  the  Porte  to  declare  war  on  Greece  in 
1897.  Although  the  Ottoman  army  defeated  the  Greeks  deci- 
sively in  Thrace,  the  European  powers  forced  a  compromise 
peace  that  kept  Crete  under  Ottoman  suzerainty  while  install- 
ing the  son  of  the  Greek  king  as  its  governor. 

More  isolated  from  Europe  than  it  had  been  for  half  a  cen- 
tury, the  Ottoman  regime  could  count  on  support  only  from 
Germany,  whose  friendship  offered  Abdul  Hamid  II  a  conge- 
nial alternative  to  British  and  French  intervention.  In  1902 
Germany  was  granted  a  ninety-nine-year  concession  to  build 
and  operate  a  Beiiin-to-Baghdad  rail  connection.  Germany 
continued  to  invest  in  the  Ottoman  economy,  and  German  offi- 
cers held  training  and  command  posts  in  the  Ottoman  army. 

Opposition  to  the  sultan's  regime  continued  to  assert  itself 
among  Westernized  intellectuals  and  liberal  members  of  the 
ruling  class.  Some  continued  to  advocate  "Ottomanism," 
whereas  others  argued  for  pan-Turanism,  the  union  of  Turkic- 
speaking  peoples  inside  and  outside  the  Ottoman  Empire.  The 
Turkish  nationalist  ideologist  of  the  period  was  the  writer  Ziya 
Gokalp,  who  defined  Turkish  nationalism  within  the  context  of 
the  Ottoman  Empire.  Gokalp  went  much  farther  than  his  con- 
temporaries, however,  by  calling  for  the  adoption  of  the  vernac- 
ular in  place  of  Ottoman  Turkish.  Gokalp's  advocacy  of  a 
national  Turkish  state  in  which  folk  culture  and  Western  values 
would  play  equally  important  revitalizing  roles  foreshadowed 
events  a  quarter-century  in  the  future. 

The  Young  Turks 

The  repressive  policies  of  Abdul  Hamid  II  fostered  disaffec- 
tion, especially  among  those  educated  in  Europe  or  in  Western- 
ized schools.  Young  officers  and  students  who  conspired 
against  the  sultan's  regime  coalesced  into  small  groups,  largely 
outside  Istanbul.  One  young  officer,  Mustafa  Kemal  (later 
known  as  Ataturk),  organized  a  secret  society  among  fellow 
officers  in  Damascus  and,  later,  in  Thessaloniki  (Salonika)  in 
present-day  Greece.  Atatiirk's  group  merged  with  other  nation- 
alist reform  organizations  in  1907  to  form  the  Committee  of 
Union  and  Progress  (CUP).  Also  known  as  the  Young  Turks, 
this  group  sought  to  restore  the  1876  constitution  and  unify 
the  diverse  elements  of  the  empire  into  a  homogeneous  nation 


27 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

through  greater  government  centralization  under  a  parliamen- 
tary regime. 

In  July  1908,  army  units  in  Macedonia  revolted  and 
demanded  a  return  to  constitutional  government.  Appearing 
to  yield,  Abdul  Hamid  II  approved  parliamentary  elections  in 
November  in  which  the  CUP  won  all  but  one  of  the  Turkish 
seats  under  a  system  that  allowed  proportional  representation 
of  all  millets.  The  Young  Turk  government  was  weakened  by 
splits  between  nationalist  and  liberal  reformers,  however,  and 
was  threatened  by  traditionalist  Muslims  and  by  demands  from 
non-Turkish  communities  for  greater  autonomy.  Abdul  Hamid 
II  was  forced  to  abdicate  and  was  succeeded  by  his  brother, 
Mehmet  V,  in  1909.  Foreign  powers  took  advantage  of  the 
political  instability  in  Istanbul  to  seize  portions  of  the  empire. 
Austria  annexed  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  immediately  after 
the  1908  revolution,  and  Bulgaria  proclaimed  its  complete 
independence.  Italy  declared  war  in  1911  and  seized  Libya. 
Having  earlier  formed  a  secret  alliance,  Greece,  Serbia,  Mon- 
tenegro, and  Bulgaria  invaded  Ottoman-held  Macedonia  and 
Thrace  in  October  1912.  Ottoman  forces  were  defeated,  and 
the  empire  lost  all  of  its  European  holdings  except  part  of  east- 
ern Thrace. 

The  disasters  befalling  the  empire  led  to  internal  political 
change.  The  liberal  government  in  power  since  July  1912  was 
overthrown  in  January  1913  in  a  coup  engineered  by  Enver 
Pasha,  and  the  most  authoritarian  elements  of  the  Young  Turk 
movement  gained  full  control.  A  second  Balkan  war  broke  out 
in  June  1913,  when  the  Balkan  allies  began  fighting  among 
themselves  over  the  division  of  the  spoils  from  the  first  war. 
Taking  advantage  of  the  situation,  Ottoman  forces  turned  on 
Bulgaria,  regaining  Edirne  and  establishing  the  western 
boundary  of  the  empire  at  the  Maritsa  River. 

After  a  brief  period  of  constitutional  rule,  the  leadership  of 
the  CUP  emerged  as  a  military  dictatorship  with  power  concen- 
trated in  the  hands  of  a  triumvirate  consisting  of  Mehmet  Talat 
Pasha,  Ahmet  Cemal  Pasha,  and  Enver,  who,  as  minister  of  war, 
was  its  acknowledged  leader  in  the  war. 

World  War  I 

As  the  two  European  alliance  systems  drew  closer  to  war  in 
1914,  Enver's  pronounced  pro-German  sympathies,  shared  by 
many  in  the  military  and  bureaucracy,  prevailed  over  the  prag- 
matic neutrality  proposed  by  Talat  and  Cemal.  Germany  had 


28 


Ruins  of  ancient  Troy 
Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


been  pro-Ottoman  during  the  Balkan  wars,  but  the  Porte  had 
no  outstanding  differences  with  either  Britain  or  France  in  the 
summer  of  1914.  In  guiding  his  government  toward  alignment 
with  Germany,  Enver  was  able  to  play  on  fear  of  the  traditional 
Ottoman  enemy,  Russia,  the  ally  of  Britain  and  France  in  the 
war. 

On  August  2,  1914,  Enver  concluded  a  secret  treaty  of  alli- 
ance with  Germany.  General  mobilization  was  ordered  the  next 
day,  and  in  the  following  weeks  concessions  granted  to  foreign 
powers  under  the  capitulations  were  canceled.  It  remained  for 
Germany,  however,  to  provide  the  casus  belli.  Two  German  mil- 
itary vessels — the  battleship  Goben  and  the  heavy  cruiser  Bres- 
lau — that  had  been  caught  in  a  neutral  Ottoman  port  when  war 
broke  out  in  Europe  were  turned  over  to  the  Ottoman  navy.  In 
October  they  put  to  sea  with  German  officers  and  crews  and 
shelled  Odessa  and  other  Russian  ports  while  flying  the  Otto- 


29 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

man  flag.  Russia  declared  war  on  the  Ottoman  Empire  on 
November  5,  followed  the  next  day  by  Britain  and  France. 
Within  six  months,  the  Ottoman  army  of  about  800,000  men 
was  engaged  in  a  four-front  war  that  became  part  of  the  greater 
conflict  of  World  War  I. 

Enver  launched  an  ill-prepared  offensive  in  the  winter  of 
1914-15  against  the  Russians  in  the  Caucasus,  vainly  hoping 
that  an  impressive  demonstration  of  Ottoman  strength  there 
would  incite  an  insurrection  among  the  tsar's  Turkish-speaking 
subjects.  Instead,  a  Russian  counteroffensive  inflicted  stagger- 
ing losses  on  Ottoman  forces,  driving  them  back  to  Lake  Van. 
During  the  campaign  in  eastern  Anatolia,  assistance  was  given 
to  the  Russians  by  some  Armenians,  who  saw  them  as  liberators 
rather  than  invaders.  Armenian  units  were  also  part  of  the  Rus- 
sian army.  Enver  claimed  that  an  Armenian  conspiracy  existed 
and  that  a  generalized  revolt  by  the  Armenians  was  imminent. 
During  the  winter  months  of  1915,  as  the  shattered  Ottoman 
army  retreated  toward  Lake  Van,  a  massive  deportation  of  as 
many  as  2  million  Armenians  was  undertaken  in  the  war  zone. 
It  shortly  degenerated  into  a  massacre,  as  ethnic  Turks  and 
Kurds  descended  on  Armenian  villages  or  slaughtered  refugees 
along  the  road.  The  most  conservative  estimates  put  the  num- 
ber of  dead  at  600,000,  but  other  sources  cite  figures  of  more 
than  1  million.  The  situation  of  those  Armenians  who  survived 
the  march  out  of  Anatolia  was  scarcely  improved  under  the  mil- 
itary government  in  Syria.  Others  managed  to  escape  behind 
Russian  lines.  The  episode  occasioned  a  revulsion  in  Western 
Europe  that  had  its  effect  in  the  harsh  terms  meted  out  by  the 
Allies  in  the  postwar  settlement. 

In  the  spring  of  1915,  the  Allies  undertook  naval  and  land 
operations  in  the  Dardanelles  that  were  intended  to  knock  the 
Ottoman  Empire  out  of  the  war  with  one  blow  and  to  open  the 
straits  for  the  passage  of  supplies  to  Russia.  Amphibious  land- 
ings were  carried  out  at  Gallipoli,  but  British  forces,  vigorously 
opposed  by  forces  commanded  by  Atatiirk,  were  unable  to 
expand  their  beachheads.  The  last  units  of  the  expeditionary 
force  were  evacuated  by  February  1916. 

In  Mesopotamia  the  Ottoman  army  defeated  a  British  expe- 
ditionary force  that  had  marched  on  Baghdad  from  a  base 
established  at  Basra  in  1915.  The  British  mounted  a  new  offen- 
sive in  1917,  taking  Baghdad  and  driving  Ottoman  forces  out  of 
Mesopotamia.  In  eastern  Anatolia,  Russian  armies  won  a  series 
of  battles  that  carried  their  control  west  to  Erzincan  by  July 


30 


Historical  Setting 


1916,  although  Atatiirk,  who  was  then  given  command  of  the 
eastern  front,  led  a  counteroffensive  that  checked  the  Russian 
advance.  Russia  left  the  war  after  the  Bolshevik  Revolution  in 

1917.  The  new  Russian  government  concluded  the  Treaty  of 
Brest-Litovsk  with  the  Central  Powers  in  March  1918,  under 
which  the  Ottoman  Empire  regained  its  eastern  provinces. 

Sharif  Husayn  ibn  Ali,  the  sultan's  regent  in  Mecca  and  the 
Hijaz  region  of  western  Arabia,  launched  the  Arab  Revolt  in 

1916.  The  British  provided  advisers,  of  whom  T.E.  Lawrence 
was  to  become  the  best  known,  as  well  as  supplies.  In  October 

1917,  British  forces  in  Egypt  opened  an  offensive  into  Pales- 
tine; they  took  Jerusalem  by  December.  After  hard  fighting, 
British  and  Arab  forces  entered  Damascus  in  October  1918. 
Late  in  the  campaign,  Atatiirk  succeeded  to  command  of  Turk- 
ish forces  in  Syria  and  withdrew  many  units  intact  into  Anato- 
lia. 

Ottoman  resistance  was  exhausted.  Early  in  October,  the  war 
government  resigned,  and  the  Young  Turk  triumvirate — Enver, 
Talat,  and  Cemal— fled  to  exile  in  Germany.  Mehmet  VI  (r. 
1918-22),  who  had  succeeded  to  the  rule  upon  his  brother's 
death  in  July,  sued  for  peace  through  a  government  headed  by 
liberal  ministers  that  signed  an  armistice  at  Mudros  on  Octo- 
ber 30,  1918,  that  had  been  dictated  by  the  Allies.  Allied  war- 
ships steamed  through  the  Dardanelles  and  anchored  off 
Istanbul  on  November  12,  the  day  after  the  end  of  the  war  in 
Europe.  In  four  years  of  war,  the  Ottoman  Empire  had  mobi- 
lized about  2.8  million  men,  of  whom  about  325,000  were 
killed  in  battle.  In  addition,  more  than  2  million  civilians, 
including  both  Turks  and  Armenians,  are  believed  to  have  died 
of  war-related  causes.  Talat  and  Cemal,  who  were  held  responsi- 
ble for  the  deportation  of  Armenians  and  the  mistreatment  of 
refugees,  were  assassinated  by  Armenian  nationalists  in  1921. 
The  following  year,  Enver  was  killed  while  fighting  the  Bolshe- 
viks in  Central  Asia. 

Atatiirk  and  the  Turkish  Nation 

Atatiirk  returned  to  Istanbul  at  the  end  of  the  war,  his  mili- 
tary reputation  untarnished  by  the  defeat  of  the  empire  that  he 
had  served.  Revered  by  his  troops  as  well  as  the  Turkish  masses, 
Atatiirk  soon  emerged  as  the  standard-bearer  of  the  Turkish 
nationalist  movement. 

Born  in  Thessaloniki  in  1881,  Atatiirk  was  the  son  of  a  minor 
government  official  in  a  city  where  Turks  outnumbered 


31 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Greeks.  His  ardent  Turkish  nationalism  dated  from  his  early 
days  as  a  cadet  in  the  military  school  at  Monastir  (in  the 
present-day  Former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia)  during  a 
time  of  constant  conflict  between  Ottoman  troops  and  Mace- 
donian guerrillas,  who  attacked  the  Turkish  population  in  the 
region.  Following  graduation  from  the  military  academy  in 
Istanbul,  Atatiirk  held  various  staff  positions  and  served  in  gar- 
risons at  Damascus  and  Thessaloniki,  where  he  became 
involved  in  nationalist  activities.  He  took  part  in  the  coup  that 
forced  Abdul  Hamid  IFs  abdication  in  1909.  Atatiirk  organized 
irregular  forces  in  Libya  during  the  war  with  Italy  in  1911  and 
subsequently  held  field  commands  in  the  two  Balkan  wars 
(1912-13).  Assigned  to  a  post  in  the  Ministry  of  War  after  the 
armistice,  Atatiirk  quickly  recognized  the  extent  of  Allied 
intentions  toward  the  Ottoman  Empire. 

Plans  for  Partitioning  Turkey 

Allied  troops — British,  French,  and  Italian,  as  well  as  a  con- 
tingent of  Greeks — occupied  Istanbul  and  were  permitted 
under  the  conditions  of  the  armistice  to  intervene  in  areas 
where  they  considered  their  interests  to  be  imperiled.  During 
the  war,  the  Allies  had  negotiated  a  series  of  agreements  that 
outlined  not  only  the  definitive  dismantling  of  the  Ottoman 
Empire  but  also  the  partitioning  among  them  of  what  Turkish 
nationalists  had  come  to  regard  as  the  Turkish  homeland. 
According  to  these  agreements,  Russia  was  at  last  to  be 
rewarded  with  possession  of  Istanbul  and  the  straits,  as  well  as 
eastern  Anatolia  as  far  south  as  Bitlis  below  Lake  Van.  France 
and  Italy  were  conceded  portions  of  Anatolia,  and  Britain  had 
promised  Izmir  to  Greece — although  it  had  also  been  prom- 
ised to  Italy — to  encourage  Greek  entry  into  the  war  in  1917. 

The  Bolshevik  government  had  renounced  tsarist  claims 
when  it  made  its  separate  peace  at  Brest-Litovsk,  but  Britain, 
France,  Italy,  and  Greece  all  pressed  their  respective  claims  at 
the  Paris  peace  talks  in  1919.  All  agreed  with  the  provisions  of 
President  Woodrow  Wilson's  Fourteen  Points  calling  for  an 
independent  Armenia  and  an  autonomous  Kurdistan.  How  the 
Allies  would  implement  the  clause  providing  that  the  Turkish- 
speaking  nation  "should  be  assured  of  a  secure  sovereignty"  was 
not  clear. 

The  terms  of  a  peace  treaty  with  the  Ottoman  Empire  were 
presented  by  the  Allies  in  April  1920  at  San  Remo,  Italy,  and 
were  embodied  in  the  Treaty  of  Sevres,  which  was  concluded 


32 


Historical  Setting 


the  following  August.  The  treaty  was  shaped  by  the  wartime 
agreements  made  by  the  Allies.  In  addition,  France  received  a 
mandate  over  Lebanon  and  Syria  (including  what  is  now  Hatay 
Province  in  Turkey),  and  Britain's  mandate  covered  Iraq,  Jor- 
dan, and  Palestine.  Eastern  Thrace  up  to  a  line  from  the  Black 
Sea  to  the  Sea  of  Marmara  as  well  as  Izmir  and  its  hinterland 
were  to  be  occupied  by  Greece,  with  the  final  disposition  of  the 
territory  to  be  decided  in  a  plebiscite.  The  Treaty  of  Sevres  was 
never  enforced  as  such,  as  events  in  Turkey  soon  rendered  it 
irrelevant. 

Nationalist  Movement 

The  sultan  was  kept  in  the  custody  of  the  Allies  to  ensure  the 
cooperation  of  an  Ottoman  administration,  which  had  effec- 
tive jurisdiction  only  in  Istanbul  and  part  of  northern  Anatolia, 
while  they  disposed  of  the  rest  of  his  empire.  At  the  same  time, 
a  Turkish  nationalist  movement  was  organized  under  Ataturk' s 
leadership  to  resist  the  dismemberment  of  Turkish-speaking 
areas.  Ataturk  had  been  sent  to  eastern  Anatolia  as  inspector 
general,  ostensibly  to  supervise  the  demobilization  of  Ottoman 
forces  and  the  disposition  of  supplies,  but  more  particularly  to 
remove  him  from  the  capital  after  he  had  expressed  opposition 
to  the  Allied  occupation  there.  Upon  his  arrival  at  Samsun  in 
May  1919,  Ataturk  proceeded  to  rally  support  for  the  national- 
ist cause  and  to  recruit  a  nationalist  army.  Guerrilla  warfare 
against  the  government  gradually  grew  to  full-fledged  cam- 
paigns against  the  Greek  army  that  threatened  to  involve  the 
other  Allied  occupation  forces. 

In  July  1919,  a  nationalist  congress  met  at  Erzurum  with 
Ataturk  presiding  to  endorse  a  protocol  calling  for  an  indepen- 
dent Turkish  state.  In  September  the  congress  reconvened  at 
Sivas.  Although  the  delegates  voiced  their  loyalty  to  the  sultan- 
caliph,  they  also  pledged  to  maintain  the  integrity  of  the  Turk- 
ish nation.  The  congress  adopted  the  National  Pact,  which 
defined  objectives  of  the  nationalist  movement  that  were  not 
open  to  compromise.  Among  its  provisions  were  the  renuncia- 
tion of  claims  to  the  Arab  provinces,  the  principle  of  the  abso- 
lute integrity  of  all  remaining  Ottoman  territory  inhabited  by  a 
Turkish  Muslim  majority,  a  guarantee  of  minority  rights,  the 
retention  of  Istanbul  and  the  straits,  and  rejection  of  any 
restriction  on  the  political,  judicial,  and  financial  rights  of  the 
nation. 


33 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Negotiations  continued  between  the  nationalist  congress 
and  the  Ottoman  government,  but  to  no  avail.  Ataturk 
resigned  from  the  army  when  relieved  of  his  duties.  The  nam- 
ing of  a  chief  minister  in  Istanbul  considered  sympathetic  to 
the  nationalist  cause  brought  a  brief  improvement  in  relations, 
however,  and  the  Ottoman  parliament,  which  met  in  January 
1920,  approved  the  National  Pact.  In  reaction  to  these  develop- 
ments, Allied  occupation  forces  seized  public  buildings  and 
reinforced  their  positions  in  the  capital,  arrested  and  deported 
numerous  nationalist  leaders,  and  had  parliament  dismissed. 

Allied  actions  brought  a  quick  response  from  the  national- 
ists. In  April  they  convened  the  Grand  National  Assembly  in 
Ankara,  in  defiance  of  the  Ottoman  regime,  and  elected 
Ataturk  its  president.  The  Law  of  Fundamental  Organization 
(also  known  as  the  Organic  Law)  was  adopted  in  January  1921. 
With  this  legislation,  the  nationalists  proclaimed  that  sover- 
eignty belonged  to  the  nation  and  was  exercised  on  its  behalf 
by  the  Grand  National  Assembly. 

War  of  Independence 

During  the  summer  and  fall  of  1919,  with  authorization 
from  the  Supreme  Allied  War  Council,  the  Greeks  occupied 
Edirne,  Bursa,  and  Izmir.  A  landing  was  effected  at  the  latter 
port  under  the  protection  of  an  Allied  flotilla  that  included 
United  States  warships.  The  Greeks  soon  moved  as  far  as  Usak, 
175  kilometers  inland  from  Izmir.  Military  action  between 
Turks  and  Greeks  in  Anatolia  in  1920  was  inconclusive,  but  the 
nationalist  cause  was  strengthened  the  next  year  by  a  series  of 
important  victories.  In  January  and  again  in  April,  Ismet  Pasha 
defeated  the  Greek  army  at  Inonu,  blocking  its  advance  into 
the  interior  of  Anatolia.  In  July,  in  the  face  of  a  third  offensive, 
the  Turkish  forces  fell  back  in  good  order  to  the  Sakarya  River, 
eighty  kilometers  from  Ankara,  where  Ataturk  took  personal 
command  and  decisively  defeated  the  Greeks  in  a  twenty-day 
battle. 

An  improvement  in  Turkey's  diplomatic  situation  accompa- 
nied its  military  success.  Impressed  by  the  viability  of  the 
nationalist  forces,  both  France  and  Italy  withdrew  from  Anato- 
lia by  October  1921.  Treaties  were  signed  that  year  with  Soviet 
Russia,  the  first  European  power  to  recognize  the  nationalists, 
establishing  the  boundary  between  the  two  countries.  As  early 
as  1919,  the  Turkish  nationalists  had  cooperated  with  the  Bol- 
shevik government  in  attacking  the  newly  proclaimed  Arme- 


34 


Historical  Setting 


nian  republic.  Armenian  resistance  was  broken  by  the  summer 
of  1921,  and  the  Kars  region  was  occupied  by  the  Turks.  In 
1922  the  nationalists  recognized  the  Soviet  absorption  of  what 
remained  of  the  Armenian  state. 

The  final  drive  against  the  Greeks  began  in  August  1922.  In 
September  the  Turks  moved  into  Izmir,  where  thousands  were 
killed  during  the  ensuing  fighting  and  in  the  disorder  that  fol- 
lowed the  city's  capture.  Greek  soldiers  and  refugees,  who  had 
crowded  into  Izmir,  were  rescued  by  Allied  ships. 

The  nationalist  army  then  concentrated  on  driving  remain- 
ing Greek  forces  out  of  eastern  Thrace,  but  the  new  campaign 
threatened  to  put  the  Turks  in  direct  confrontation  with  Allied 
contingents  defending  access  to  the  straits  and  holding  Istan- 
bul, where  they  were  protecting  the  Ottoman  government.  A 
crisis  was  averted  when  Atatvirk  accepted  a  British-proposed 
truce  that  brought  an  end  to  the  fighting  and  also  signaled  that 
the  Allies  were  unwilling  to  intervene  on  behalf  of  the  Greeks. 
In  compliance  with  the  Armistice  of  Mundanya,  concluded  in 
October,  Greek  troops  withdrew  beyond  the  Maritsa  River, 
allowing  the  Turkish  nationalists  to  occupy  territory  up  to  that 
boundary.  The  agreement  entailed  acceptance  of  a  continued 
x\llied  presence  in  the  straits  and  in  Istanbul  until  a  compre- 
hensive settlement  could  be  reached. 

At  the  end  of  October  1922,  the  Allies  invited  the  nationalist 
and  Ottoman  governments  to  a  conference  at  Lausanne,  Swit- 
zerland, but  Atattirk  was  determined  that  the  nationalist  gov- 
ernment should  be  Turkey's  sole  representative.  In  November 
1922,  the  Grand  National  Assembly  separated  the  offices  of  sul- 
tan and  caliph  and  abolished  the  former.  The  assembly  further 
stated  that  the  Ottoman  regime  had  ceased  to  be  the  govern- 
ment of  Turkey  when  the  Allies  seized  the  capital  in  1920,  in 
effect  abolishing  the  Ottoman  Empire.  Mehmet  VI  went  into 
exile  on  Malta,  and  his  cousin,  Abdulmecid,  was  named  caliph. 

Turkey  was  the  only  power  defeated  in  World  War  I  to  nego- 
tiate with  the  Allies  as  an  equal  and  to  influence  the  provisions 
of  the  resultant  treaty.  Ismet  Pasha  was  the  chief  Turkish  nego- 
tiator at  the  Lausanne  Conference,  which  opened  in  Novem- 
ber 1922.  The  National  Pact  of  1919  was  the  basis  of  the 
Turkish  negotiating  position,  and  its  provisions  were  incorpo- 
rated in  the  Treaty  of  Lausanne,  concluded  in  July  1923.  With 
this  treaty,  the  Allies  recognized  the  present-day  territory  of 
Turkey  and  denied  Turkey's  claim  to  the  Mosul  area  in  the  east 
(in  present-day  Iraq)  and  Hatay,  which  included  the  Mediterra- 


35 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


nean  port  of  Alexandretta  (Iskenderun).  The  boundary  with 
the  newly  created  state  of  Iraq  was  settled  by  a  League  of 
Nations  initiative  in  1926,  and  Iskenderun  was  ceded  in  1939 
by  France  during  its  rule  as  mandatory  power  for  Syria. 

Detailed  provisions  of  the  treaty  regulated  use  of  the  straits. 
General  supervisory  powers  were  given  to  a  straits  commission 
under  the  League  of  Nations,  and  the  straits  area  was  to  be 
demilitarized  after  completion  of  the  Allied  withdrawal.  Turkey 
was  to  hold  the  presidency  of  the  commission,  which  included 
the  Soviet  Union  among  its  members.  The  capitulations  and 
foreign  administration  of  the  Ottoman  public  debt,  which 
infringed  on  the  sovereignty  of  Turkey,  were  abolished.  Turkey, 
however,  assumed  40  percent  of  the  Ottoman  debt,  the  remain- 
der being  apportioned  among  other  former  Ottoman  territo- 
ries. Turkey  was  also  required  to  maintain  low  tariffs  on 
imports  from  signatory  powers  until  1929.  The  Treaty  of  Lau- 
sanne reaffirmed  the  equality  of  Muslim  and  non-Muslim  Turk- 
ish nationals.  Turkey  and  Greece  arranged  a  mandatory 
exchange  of  their  respective  ethnic  Greek  and  Turkish  minori- 
ties, with  the  exception  of  some  Greeks  in  Istanbul  and  Turks 
in  western  Thrace  and  the  Dodecanese  Islands. 

On  October  29,  1923,  the  Grand  National  Assembly  pro- 
claimed the  Republic  of  Turkey.  Ataturk  was  named  its  presi- 
dent and  Ankara  its  capital,  and  the  modern  state  of  Turkey 
was  born. 

Ataturk's  Reforms 

On  assuming  office,  Ataturk  initiated  a  series  of  radical 
reforms  of  the  country's  political,  social,  and  economic  life  that 
were  aimed  at  rapidly  transforming  Turkey  into  a  modern  state 
(see  table  A).  A  secular  legal  code,  modeled  along  European 
lines,  was  introduced  that  completely  altered  laws  affecting 
women,  marriage,  and  family  relations. 

Ataturk  also  urged  his  fellow  citizens  to  look  and  act  like 
Europeans.  Turks  were  encouraged  to  wear  European-style 
clothing.  Surnames  were  adopted:  Mustafa  Kemal,  for  exam- 
ple, became  Kemal  Ataturk,  and  Ismet  Pasha  took  Inonii  as  his 
surname  to  commemorate  his  victories  there.  Likewise,  Ataturk 
insisted  on  cutting  links  with  the  past  that  he  considered 
anachronistic.  Titles  of  honor  were  abolished.  The  wearing  of 
the  fez,  which  had  been  introduced  a  century  earlier  as  a  mod- 
ernizing reform  to  replace  the  turban,  was  outlawed  because  it 


36 


Historical  Setting 


Table  A.  Chronobgy  of  Major  Kemalist  Reforms 


Year 

Reform 

1922 

Sultanate  abolished  (November  1). 

Treaty  of  Lausanne  secured  (July  24) . 

Republic  of  Turkey  with  capital  at  Ankara  proclaimed  (October  29). 

1924 

Caliphate  abolished  (March  3). 

Traditional   religious  schools   closed,   seriat  abolished.  Constitution 

adorned  fAnril  90) 

1925 

Dervish  brotherhoods  abolished. 

Fez  outlawed  by  the  Hat  Law  (November  25).  Veiling  of  women  discour- 

aged; Western  clothing  for  men  and  women  encouraged. 

Western  (Gregorian)  calendar  adopted. 

1926 

New  civil,  commercial,  and  penal  codes  based  on  European  models 

adopted.  New  civil  code  ended  Islamic  polygamy  and  divorce  by 

renunciation  and  introduced  civil  marriage. 

Millet  system  ended. 

1927 

First  systematic  census. 

1928 

secular  (April  10);  constitutional  provision  establishing  Islam  as  offi- 

cial religion  deleted. 

1933 

Islamic  call  to  worship  and  public  readings  of  the  Kuran  (Quran) 

required  to  be  in  Turkish  rather  than  Arabic. 

1934 

Women  given  the  vote  and  the  right  to  hold  office. 

Law  of  Surnames  adopted — Mustafa  Kemal  given  the  name  Kemal 

Ataturk  (Father  Turk)  by  the  Grand  National  Assembly,  Ismet  Pasha 

took  surname  of  Inonu. 

1935 

Sunday  adopted  as  legal  weekly  holiday. 

State  role  in  managing  economy  written  into  the  constitution. 

had  become  for  the  nationalists  a  symbol  of  the  reactionary 
Ottoman  regime. 

The  ideological  foundation  of  Ataturk's  reform  program 
became  known  as  Kemalism.  Its  main  points  were  enumerated 
in  the  "Six  Arrows"  of  Kemalism:  republicanism,  nationalism, 
populism,  reformism,  etatism  (statism),  and  secularism.  These 
were  regarded  as  "fundamental  and  unchanging  principles" 
guiding  the  republic,  and  were  written  into  its  constitution. 
The  principle  of  republicanism  was  contained  in  the  constitu- 
tional declaration  that  "sovereignty  is  vested  in  the  nation"  and 
not  in  a  single  ruler.  Displaying  considerable  ingenuity,  Ataturk 
set  about  reinventing  the  Turkish  language  and  recasting  Turk- 
ish history  in  a  nationalist  mold.  The  president  himself  went 
out  into  the  park  in  Ankara  on  Sunday,  the  newly  established 
day  of  rest,  to  teach  the  Latin  alphabet  adapted  to  Turkish  as 
part  of  the  language  reform.  Populism  encompassed  not  only 
the  notion  that  all  Turkish  citizens  were  equal  but  that  all  of 


37 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

them  were  Turks.  What  remained  of  the  millet  system  that  had 
provided  communal  autonomy  to  other  ethnic  groups  was 
abolished.  Reformism  legitimized  the  radical  means  by  which 
changes  in  Turkish  political  and  social  life  were  implemented. 
Etatism  emphasized  the  central  role  reserved  to  the  state  in 
directing  the  nation's  economic  activities.  This  concept  was 
cited  particularly  to  justify  state  planning  of  Turkey's  mixed 
economy  and  large-scale  investment  in  state-owned  enterprises. 
An  important  aim  of  Ataturk's  economic  policies  was  to  pre- 
vent foreign  interests  from  exercising  undue  influence  on  the 
Turkish  economy. 

Of  all  the  Kemalist  reforms,  the  exclusion  of  Islam  from  an 
official  role  in  the  life  of  the  nation  shocked  Ataturk's  contem- 
poraries most  profoundly.  The  abolition  of  the  caliphate  ended 
any  connection  between  the  state  and  religion.  The  Islamic 
religious  orders  were  suppressed,  religious  schools  were  closed, 
public  education  was  secularized,  and  the  seriatwas  revoked. 
These  changes  required  readjustment  of  the  entire  social 
framework  of  the  Turkish  people.  Despite  subsequent  protests, 
Atatiirk  conceded  nothing  to  the  traditionalists. 

In  1924  the  Grand  National  Assembly  adopted  a  new  consti- 
tution to  replace  the  1876  document  that  had  continued  to 
serve  as  the  legal  framework  of  the  republican  government. 
The  1924  constitution  vested  sovereign  power  in  the  Grand 
National  Assembly  as  representative  of  the  people,  to  whom  it 
also  guaranteed  basic  civil  rights.  Under  the  new  document, 
the  assembly  would  be  a  unicameral  body  elected  to  a  four-year 
term  by  universal  suffrage.  Its  legislative  authority  would 
include  responsibility  for  approving  the  budget,  ratifying  trea- 
ties, and  declaring  war.  The  president  of  the  republic  would  be 
elected  to  a  four-year  term  by  the  assembly,  and  he  in  turn 
would  appoint  the  prime  minister,  who  was  expected  to  enjoy 
the  confidence  of  the  assembly  (see  table  3,  Appendix  A). 

Throughout  his  presidency,  repeatedly  extended  by  the 
assembly,  Atatiirk  governed  Turkey  essentially  by  personal  rule 
in  a  one-party  state.  He  founded  the  Republican  People's  Party 
(Cumhuriyet  Halk  Partisi — CHP)  in  1923  to  represent  the 
nationalist  movement  in  elections  and  to  serve  as  a  vanguard 
party  in  support  of  the  Kemalist  reform  program.  Ataturk's  Six 
Arrows  were  an  integral  part  of  the  CHP's  political  platform.  By 
controlling  the  CHP,  Atatiirk  also  controlled  the  assembly  and 
assured  support  there  for  the  government  he  had  appointed. 
Atatiirk  regarded  a  stage  of  personal  authoritarian  rule  as  nec- 


38 


Historical  Setting 


essary  to  secure  his  reforms  before  he  entrusted  the  govern- 
ment of  the  country  to  the  democratic  process. 

Foreign  Policy 

Ataturk's  foreign  policy,  which  had  as  its  main  object  the 
preservation  of  the  independence  and  integrity  of  the  new 
republic,  was  careful,  conservative,  and  successful.  The  presi- 
dent enunciated  the  principle  of  "peace  at  home  and  peace 
abroad."  This  guideline,  whose  observance  was  necessary  to  the 
task  of  internal  nation  building,  became  the  cornerstone  of 
Turkey's  foreign  relations. 

By  the  end  of  1925,  friendship  treaties  had  been  negotiated 
with  fifteen  states.  These  included  a  twenty-year  treaty  of 
friendship  and  neutrality  signed  that  year  with  the  Soviet 
Union  that  remained  in  effect  until  unilaterally  abrogated  by 
the  Soviet  Union  in  1945.  Turkey  subsequently  joined  Greece, 
Romania,  and  Yugoslavia  in  the  Balkan  Pact  to  counter  the 
increasingly  aggressive  foreign  policy  of  fascist  Italy  and  the 
effect  of  a  potential  Bulgarian  alignment  with  Nazi  Germany. 
Turkey  also  entered  into  a  nonaggression  treaty  with  Afghani- 
stan, Iraq,  and  Iran  in  1937. 

Ataturk  attained  his  greatest  diplomatic  success  in  1936, 
when  Turkey  persuaded  the  signatory  powers  of  the  Treaty  of 
Lausanne  to  allow  Turkish  control  and  remilitarization  of  the 
straits  as  part  of  the  Montreux  Convention.  Under  its  terms, 
merchant  vessels  were  to  continue  to  have  freedom  of  naviga- 
tion of  the  straits,  but  Turkey  took  over  the  functions  of  the 
international  commission  for  registry,  sanitary  inspection,  and 
the  levying  of  tolls.  Turkey  was  permitted  to  refortify  the  straits 
area  and,  if  at  war  or  under  imminent  threat  of  war,  to  close 
them  to  warships. 

Turkey  after  Ataturk 

Ataturk's  death  in  Istanbul  on  November  10,  1938,  caused  an 
outpouring  of  grief  throughout  the  Turkish  nation.  With  much 
ceremony,  the  president's  body  was  transported  to  Ankara  and 
placed  in  a  temporary  tomb  from  which  it  was  transferred  in 
1953  to  a  newly  completed  mausoleum  on  a  hill  overlooking 
Ankara.  The  building  has  since  become  a  national  shrine. 

The  stability  of  the  new  republic  was  made  evident  by  the 
smoothness  of  the  presidential  succession.  The  day  after 
Ataturk's  death,  the  Grand  National  Assembly  elected  his  chief 


39 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

lieutenant,  Inonii,  president.  Celal  Bayar,  who  had  succeeded 
Inonti  as  prime  minister  in  1937,  continued  in  that  office. 

World  War  II 

As  tensions  in  Europe  heightened,  Inonti  determined  to 
keep  Turkey  neutral  in  the  event  of  war,  unless  the  country's 
vital  interests  were  clearly  at  stake.  The  Nazi-Soviet  nonaggres- 
sion  pact  of  August  1939  prompted  Turkey  to  sign  a  treaty  of 
mutual  assistance  with  Britain  and  France  in  October.  Hedging 
its  bets,  the  government  concluded  a  nonaggression  treaty  with 
Nazi  Germany  on  June  18,  1941,  just  four  days  before  the  Axis 
invasion  of  the  Soviet  Union.  The  early  military  successes  of  the 
Axis  forces  contributed  to  increased  pro-German  sentiment, 
even  in  some  official  circles.  However,  Inonti  seems  never  to 
have  wavered  from  his  position  that  the  Axis  powers  could  not 
win  the  war.  Despite  German  pressure,  Turkey  at  no  time  per- 
mitted the  passage  of  Axis  troops,  ships,  or  aircraft  through  or 
over  Turkey  and  its  waters,  and  the  Montreux  Convention  was 
scrupulously  enforced  in  the  straits.  Turkey  broke  diplomatic 
relations  with  Adolf  Hitler's  government  in  August  1944,  and, 
in  February  1945,  declared  war  on  Germany,  a  necessary  pre- 
condition for  participation  in  the  Conference  on  International 
Organization,  held  in  San  Francisco  in  April  1945,  from  which 
the  United  Nations  (UN)  emerged.  Turkey  thereby  became 
one  of  the  fifty-one  original  members  of  the  world  organiza- 
tion. 

Multiparty  Politics,  1946-60 

The  UN  charter  was  approved  by  the  Grand  National  Assem- 
bly in  August  1945,  but  the  debate  on  the  measure  during  the 
summer  brought  about  Turkey's  first  major  postwar  domestic 
political  conflict.  A  proposal  was  entered  by  former  Prime  Min- 
ister Bayar,  Adnan  Menderes,  and  two  additional  CHP  deputies 
calling  for  changes  in  Turkish  law  to  assure  the  domestic  appli- 
cation of  the  liberties  and  rights  to  which  the  government  had 
ostensibly  subscribed  by  accepting  the  principles  of  the  UN 
Charter.  When  the  proposal  was  disallowed,  its  four  propo- 
nents left  the  CHP  and  resigned  their  seats  in  the  assembly. 

Despite  the  rejection  of  Menderes's  proposal,  the  govern- 
ment relaxed  many  wartime  controls  and  agreed  to  the  further 
democratization  of  the  political  process.  In  January  1946,  the 
Democrat  Party  (DP),  headed  by  Bayar  and  Menderes,  was  reg- 
istered; it  subsequently  became  the  main  focus  of  opposition  to 


40 


Ancient  Roman  aqueduct 
in  Istanbul 
Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


the  CHR  The  general  elections  in  July  1946  gave  the  DP  sixty- 
two  seats  out  of  465  in  the  assembly,  demonstrating  the  appeal 
of  the  new  party.  Although  the  DP  represented  the  interests  of 
private  business  and  industry,  it  also  received  strong  support  in 
rural  areas. 

In  the  May  1950  general  election,  about  88  percent  of  an 
electorate  totaling  about  8.5  million  went  to  the  polls,  return- 
ing a  huge  DP  majority.  In  the  assembly,  408  seats  went  to  the 
DP  and  only  sixty-nine  to  the  CHP,  whose  unbroken  domi- 
nance since  the  founding  of  the  republic  was  thus  ended.  Bayar 
was  elected  president  by  the  new  assembly,  replacing  Inonii, 
and  named  Menderes  prime  minister.  As  expected,  the  Men- 
deres  government's  economic  policy  reduced  reliance  on  state 
direction  while  encouraging  private  enterprise  and  foreign 
investment  in  industrial  development. 

In  the  May  1954  election,  the  DP  increased  its  parliamentary 
majority.  Taking  its  election  victory  as  a  mandate  to  make 
sweeping  changes,  including  reform  of  the  civil  service  and 
state-run  enterprises,  the  Menderes  government  obtained  the 
passage  of  a  legislative  package  by  means  that  the  opposition 
characterized  as  "undemocratic  and  authoritarian."  The  CHP 
concentrated  its  attacks  on  a  government-sponsored  law  that 
limited  freedom  of  the  press.  Tension  increased  when  the  press 
law  was  tightened  further  and  restrictions  were  imposed  on 


41 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

public  assembly  several  months  before  the  scheduled  October 
1957  election.  The  government  argued  that  the  legislation  was 
necessary  to  prevent  "irresponsible  journalists"  from  inciting 
disorder.  The  inability  of  the  two  main  political  parties  to  coop- 
erate in  the  assembly  brought  the  parliamentary  process  to  a 
standstill  as  months  passed.  When  a  tour  of  central  Anatolia  by 
CHP  leader  Inonu  in  early  1960  became  the  occasion  for  out- 
breaks of  violence  along  his  route,  the  Menderes  government 
reacted  by  suspending  all  political  activity  and  imposing  mar- 
tial law.  On  April  28,  1960,  students  in  Istanbul  who  were  dem- 
onstrating against  government  policies  in  defiance  of  martial 
law  were  fired  on  by  police;  several  were  killed.  The  following 
week,  cadets  from  the  military  academy  staged  a  protest  march 
in  solidarity  with  the  student  movement,  thereby  bringing  an 
element  of  the  armed  forces  into  confrontation  with  civilian 
authorities. 

The  Armed  Forces  Coup  and  Interim  Rule,  1960-61 

Atatiirk  had  always  insisted  that  the  military  forces,  as  a 
national  institution  above  partisanship  and  factionalism, 
should  stay  out  of  politics.  The  military  leadership  traditionally 
had  subscribed  to  this  viewpoint,  with  the  proviso  that  a  major 
role  of  the  armed  forces  was  to  act  as  guardian  of  the  constitu- 
tion and  Kemalism.  By  1960,  with  the  military  already  deeply 
involved  in  political  affairs  because  of  the  government's  use  of 
martial  law  to  enforce  its  policies,  the  senior  command  con- 
cluded that  the  government  had  departed  from  Kemalist  prin- 
ciples and  that  the  republic  was  in  imminent  danger  of 
disintegration.  On  May  27,  1960,  Turkish  army  units,  under  the 
direction  of  the  chief  of  General  Staff,  Cemal  Gursel,  seized 
the  principal  government  buildings  and  communications  cen- 
ters and  arrested  President  Bayar,  Prime  Minister  Menderes, 
and  most  of  the  DP  representatives  in  the  Grand  National 
Assembly,  as  well  as  a  large  number  of  other  public  officials. 
Those  arrested  were  charged  with  abrogating  the  constitution 
and  instituting  a  dictatorship. 

The  coup  was  accomplished  with  little  violence  and  was 
accepted  quickly  throughout  the  country.  The  government  was 
replaced  by  the  Committee  of  National  Unity  (CNU),  com- 
posed of  the  thirty-eight  officers  who  had  organized  the  coup. 
The  committee  acted  as  supreme  authority,  appointing  a  cabi- 
net, initially  consisting  of  five  officers  and  thirteen  civilians,  to 
carry  out  executive  functions.  The  number  of  civilians  in  the 


42 


Historical  Setting 


cabinet,  however,  was  later  reduced  to  three.  General  Gursel, 
who  had  fought  at  Gallipoli  under  Atatiirk,  temporarily 
assumed  the  positions  of  president,  prime  minister,  and 
defense  minister.  At  the  outset,  Gursel  announced  that  the 
committee's  rule  would  be  of  an  interim  nature  and  that  gov- 
ernment would  be  returned  to  civilian  hands  at  an  early  date. 

The  most  pressing  problems  the  CNU  faced  in  the  first 
months  after  the  coup  were  economic.  The  ousted  regime  had 
been  responsible  for  inflation  and  heavy  debt,  and  emergency 
austerity  measures  had  to  be  taken  to  stabilize  the  economy.  An 
economic  planning  agency,  the  State  Planning  Organization, 
was  established  to  study  social  and  economic  conditions  and  to 
draw  up  the  country's  five-year  development  plans. 

In  January  1961,  a  constituent  assembly  was  formed  in  which 
the  CNU  participated.  This  interim  legislature  produced  a  new 
constitution,  which,  after  much  debate,  it  ratified  in  May  and 
submitted  to  a  popular  referendum  in  July.  This  constitution, 
which  created  Turkey's  so-called  Second  Republic,  contained  a 
number  of  substantial  departures  from  the  1924  constitution 
but  continued  to  embody  the  principles  of  Kemalism.  The  new 
constitution  was  approved  by  60  percent  of  the  electorate.  The 
large  opposition  vote  was  a  disappointment  to  the  CNU  and 
showed  that  sympathy  for  the  DP  persisted,  particularly  in 
socially  conservative  small  towns  and  rural  constituencies. 

Meanwhile,  the  trial  of  some  600  former  government  offi- 
cials and  DP  functionaries  had  begun  in  October  1960  on  the 
island  of  Yassiada  in  the  Bosporus.  All  but  about  100  of  those 
tried  were  found  guilty,  and  fifteen  death  sentences  were  pro- 
nounced. Partly  in  response  to  public  appeals  for  leniency,  the 
death  sentences  of  former  President  Bayar  and  eleven  others 
were  commuted  to  life  imprisonment,  but  Menderes  and  two 
former  cabinet  ministers  were  hanged. 

Fourteen  political  parties  offered  candidates  in  the  October 
1961  election,  but  only  four  won  seats  in  the  bicameral  Grand 
National  Assembly  created  under  the  new  constitution.  The 
results  gave  the  CHP  173  seats  in  the  lower  house — the  450- 
member  National  Assembly — and  only  thirty-six  in  the  150- 
member  Senate.  The  Justice  Party  (Adalet  Partisi — AP),  gener- 
ally recognized  as  the  heir  of  the  DP,  obtained  158  seats  in  the 
lower  house  and  seventy  in  the  upper.  The  remaining  seats 
were  divided  between  the  New  Turkey  Party  and  the  Republi- 
can Peasants'  Nation  Party,  subsequently  renamed  the  Nation- 
alist Action  Party  (Milliyetci  Haraket  Partisi — MHP).  The  New 


43 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Turkey  Party  was  led  by  onetime  DP  dissidents  who  had  broken 
with  Menderes  in  the  mid-1950s;  the  MHP  attracted  militant 
rightists.  Because  neither  of  the  two  larger  parties  commanded 
a  majority,  formation  of  a  broad  coalition  either  between  the 
two  larger  parties  or  between  one  of  them  and  the  two  smaller 
parties  would  be  necessary. 

Politics  and  Foreign  Relations  in  the  1960s 

The  new  bicameral  legislature  elected  General  Gursel  presi- 
dent of  the  republic.  On  taking  office,  he  asked  seventy-eight- 
year-old  former  President  Inonu  to  form  a  government.  Inonu, 
who  had  first  been  named  prime  minister  by  Atatiirk  in  1923, 
attempted  to  reach  an  agreement  with  the  AP  for  a  coalition  in 
which  that  party  would  share  an  equal  number  of  cabinet  posts 
with  the  CHP,  but  party  leaders  failed  to  resolve  their  differ- 
ences concerning  amnesty  for  those  convicted  in  the  Yassiada 
trials.  President  Gursel  and  General  Cevdet  Sunay,  chief  of  the 
General  Staff,  warned  that  the  irresponsibility  of  some  legisla- 
tors could  provoke  renewed  military  intervention  in  politics.  In 
February  1962,  a  group  of  army  officers  staged  a  revolt  in 
Ankara  in  protest  of  the  role  of  the  AP  in  government-pro- 
posed amnesty  plans.  The  uprising  was  quickly  suppressed,  and 
suspected  sympathizers  in  the  officer  corps  were  purged.  Inonu 
subsequently  introduced  legislation  granting  amnesty  to  the 
officers  involved  in  the  revolt.  In  October  283  of  those  who  had 
been  convicted  at  Yassiada  were  given  executive  clemency  on 
the  recommendation  of  the  assembly  and  freed.  Another  two 
years  elapsed  before  former  President  Bayar  and  the  remaining 
prisoners  were  released. 

The  AP  made  such  significant  gains  in  the  1964  local  elec- 
tions that  Inonu  stepped  down  as  prime  minister.  After  unsuc- 
cessful attempts  by  the  AP  and  the  CHP  to  form  a  government, 
an  interim  administration  was  appointed  to  serve  until  the 
October  1965  general  election.  Voters  in  that  election  gave  the 
AP  a  clear  majority  in  the  Grand  National  Assembly.  The  vote 
allowed  the  new  prime  minister,  forty-four-year-old  Suleyman 
Demirel,  to  form  a  single-party  government  and  claim  a  popu- 
lar mandate  for  his  legislative  program.  An  engineer  and 
former  head  of  the  National  Water  Authority,  Demirel  was  a 
onetime  protege  of  Menderes.  Although  Demirel  cultivated  a 
pragmatic  and  technocratic  image  for  the  young  party,  the  AP 
inherited  the  DP's  identification  with  right-wing  populism  and 
catered  to  the  same  broadly  based  constituency.  The  party 


44 


Historical  Setting 


attracted  support  from  the  business  community  and  from  arti- 
sans and  shopkeepers,  but  its  real  strength  lay  in  the  peasantry 
and  in  the  large  number  of  workers  who  had  recently  arrived 
in  the  cities  from  the  countryside.  Although  it  never  disavowed 
the  principle  of  secularism  enshrined  in  Kemalism,  the  AP  pro- 
moted tolerance  of  the  open  expression  of  the  traditional 
Islam  that  appealed  to  many  in  these  latter  groups.  While 
accepting  a  large  role  for  state  enterprises  in  a  mixed  economy, 
the  AP  also  encouraged  the  development  of  a  stronger  private 
sector  than  had  been  allowed  previously  and  was  receptive  to 
foreign  investment  in  Turkey. 

Although  Demirel  increased  defense  spending  and  took  a 
hard  line  on  law-and-order  issues,  military  leaders  remained 
suspicious  of  his  party  because  of  its  roots  in  the  DP.  Demirel 
seemed  to  improve  his  standing  among  them  by  supporting  the 
successful  presidential  candidacy  of  General  Sunay  when  Giir- 
sel  died  in  office  in  1966,  but  objections  by  the  military  subse- 
quently forced  the  prime  minister  to  withdraw  legislation  that 
would  have  restored  full  political  rights  to  surviving  former  DP 
leaders.  Enactment  of  other  legislation  was  also  hampered  by 
growing  factional  splits  in  the  AP.  Representing  the  party's  busi- 
ness-oriented liberal  wing,  Demirel  urged  greater  reliance  on  a 
market  economy.  He  was  opposed  on  some  issues  and  prodded 
on  others  by  a  traditionalist  wing  that  was  socially  conservative, 
more  agrarian  in  its  orientation,  and  had  ties  to  the  Islamic 
movement. 

Following  the  CHP's  defeat  in  the  1965  general  election,  that 
party  engaged  in  an  internal  debate  to  determine  its  position 
in  the  left-right  continuum.  When  forty-year-old  Bulent  Ecevit 
succeeded  Inonii  as  party  leader  the  following  year,  he  sought 
to  identify  the  CHP  with  the  social  democratic  parties  of  West- 
ern Europe.  The  party  platform  favored  state-directed  invest- 
ment over  private  investment  and  recommended  limits  on 
foreign  participation  in  the  Turkish  economy  It  also  called  for 
rapid  expansion  of  public  services  financed  by  taxation  that 
would  restrict  the  growth  of  private  incomes.  Ecevit  empha- 
sized the  CHP's  dedication  to  maintaining  political  secularism 
in  contrast  to  the  AP's  leniency  in  the  face  of  a  revival  of  reli- 
gious influence.  While  promising  to  adhere  to  Turkey's  defense 
commitments,  he  insisted  on  a  more  self-reliant  foreign  policy 
that  included  efforts  to  improve  bilateral  relations  with  the 
Soviet  Union. 


45 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

As  party  leader,  Ecevit  attempted  to  transform  the  CHP  from 
an  elitist  party  seeking  to  guide  the  nation  from  above  into  a 
mass  movement  involving  a  broadly  based  constituency  in  the 
political  process.  Ecevit's  socialist  rhetoric  was  compatible  with 
the  Kemalist  principles  of  state  direction  of  the  economy,  but 
the  shift  to  the  left  he  inaugurated  caused  dissension  in  the 
party.  In  1967  forty-five  CHP  deputies  broke  away  to  form  a 
centrist  party  that  won  nearly  7  percent  of  the  vote  in  the  Octo- 
ber 1969  general  election.  Both  major  parties  lost  votes,  but 
right-of-center  parties,  led  by  the  AP,  outpolled  the  CHP  and 
the  small  left-wing  parties  by  nearly  two  to  one,  and  the  AP  was 
able  to  increase  its  Grand  National  Assembly  majority  by  six- 
teen seats.  To  some  observers,  the  election  results  indicated  a 
polarization  of  Turkish  politics  that  would  pull  the  AP  and 
CHP  in  opposite  directions  and  aggravate  political  extremism. 

The  extreme  left  was  represented  in  the  Grand  National 
Assembly  during  the  1960s  by  the  Turkish  Workers'  Party 
(TWP).  Its  platform  called  for  the  redistribution  of  land, 
nationalization  of  industry  and  financial  institutions,  and  the 
exclusion  of  foreign  capital,  and  urged  closer  cooperation  with 
the  Soviet  Union.  The  party  attracted  the  support  of  only  a 
small  number  of  trade  unionists  and  leftist  intellectuals. 
Although  it  had  won  fifteen  seats  in  the  1961  election,  its  share 
of  the  vote  in  1965  and  1969  averaged  less  than  3  percent.  Of 
greater  consequence  in  the  1960s — and  for  the  future — was  the 
party  of  the  extreme  right  led  by  Alparslan  Tiirkes,  one  of  the 
architects  of  the  1960  coup.  Tiirkes  had  been  among  those  offi- 
cers ousted  from  the  CNU  for  opposing  the  restoration  of  dem- 
ocratic institutions.  He  subsequently  resigned  from  the  army 
and  in  1965  took  control  of  the  Republican  Peasants'  Nation 
Party,  later  the  MHP.  Tiirkes  came  to  personify  the  ultranation- 
alistic  and  authoritarian  nature  of  his  party.  Labeled  by  some  as 
fascist,  the  MHP  demanded  strong  state  action  to  maintain 
order  and  manage  the  economy.  Although  sympathetic  to  pri- 
vate ownership,  the  party  was  hostile  toward  capitalism  and  for- 
eign investment.  Essentially  secularist,  the  MHP  nonetheless 
regarded  Islam  as  one  of  the  pillars  of  the  Turkish  state,  and 
Tiirkes  incorporated  references  to  religion  into  his  nationalist 
platform. 

Tiirkes's  party  had  won  14  percent  of  the  vote  and  fifty-four 
seats  in  the  1961  election,  but  electoral  support  plummeted  to 
under  3  percent  in  1965,  when  many  marginal  rightist  voters 
switched  to  the  AP.  In  1969  the  MHP  was  reduced  to  a  single 


46 


St.  Sophia  in  Istanbul,  an  Orthodox  cathedral  that  became 
a  mosque  after  the  Ottoman  conquest 
Courtesy  Hermine  Dreyfus s 


seat  in  the  Grand  National  Assembly;  however,  Turkes's  inflam- 
matory rhetoric  and  confrontational  tactics  gave  the  party  a 
higher  profile  than  its  strength  at  the  polls  alone  would  have 
justified.  He  organized  the  party  on  military  lines  and  indoctri- 
nated party  activists,  imposing  strict  discipline  on  them.  The 
party's  youth  movement  included  a  paramilitary  arm,  the  "Gray 
Wolves,"  whose  members  disrupted  left-wing  student  activities, 
initiated  physical  attacks  on  political  opponents,  and  retaliated 
for  assaults  on  MHP  members.  MHP-incited  violence  escalated 
in  the  late  1960s  and  set  the  tone  for  the  volatile  political  atmo- 
sphere of  the  1970s. 

Turkey's  links  to  the  United  States  grew  rapidly  in  the  after- 
math of  World  War  II.  Turkey  took  a  resolutely  pro-Western 
stance  as  the  Cold  War  developed  in  the  late  1940s  and,  in 
1950,  sent  an  infantry  brigade  to  the  Korean  Peninsula  to  serve 
under  UN  command  there.  The  pattern  of  close  bilateral  ties 
with  the  United  States  that  characterized  postwar  Turkish  for- 
eign relations  began  to  take  shape  with  an  agreement  signed  in 
Ankara  in  September  1947  implementing  a  policy  formulated 
by  President  Harry  S  Truman  the  previous  March.  Known  as 


47 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

the  Truman  Doctrine,  the  president's  policy  declaration 
spelled  out  United  States  intentions  to  guarantee  the  security 
of  Turkey  and  Greece.  Truman  won  approval  from  the  United 
States  Congress  for  an  initial  appropriation  of  US$400  million 
to  aid  both  countries.  Congress  also  authorized  United  States 
civilian  and  military  personnel  to  assist  in  economic  recon- 
struction and  development  and  to  provide  military  training. 
Turkey  subsequently  participated  in  the  United  States-spon- 
sored European  Recovery  Program  (Marshall  Plan).  Turkey 
also  was  admitted  to  membership  in  the  Council  of  Europe  and 
in  1959  applied  for  association  with  the  European  Community 
(EC),  later  called  the  European  Union  (EU — see  Glossary).  Set 
aside  after  the  1960  coup,  Turkey's  application  finally  was 
approved  in  1964. 

Turkey  was  admitted  to  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organiza- 
tion (NATO — see  Glossary)  in  1952,  and  in  1955  joined  with 
Britain,  Iran,  Iraq,  and  Pakistan  in  the  Baghdad  Pact,  a  multi- 
lateral defense  agreement  that  became  the  Central  Treaty 
Organization  (CENTO)  after  the  overthrow  of  the  Iraqi  mon- 
archy in  1958.  Turkey  played  a  vital  diplomatic  and  strategic 
role  as  the  bridge  between  the  NATO  and  CENTO  alliance  sys- 
tems. The  headquarters  of  NATO's  Allied  Land  Forces  South- 
eastern Europe  (LANDSOUTHEAST)  was  established  at  Izmir. 
In  addition,  operational  bases  near  Adana  were  developed  for 
NATO  purposes.  A  1954  military  facilities  agreement  with  the 
United  States  permitted  the  opening  of  other  NATO  installa- 
tions and  the  stationing  of  United  States  forces  in  Turkey. 
Headquarters  for  CENTO  were  moved  to  Ankara  when  Iraq 
withdrew  from  the  alliance. 

Turkish  participation  in  NATO  was  complicated  by  a 
regional  dispute  between  Turkey  and  Greece  involving  the  sta- 
tus of  the  island  of  Cyprus,  until  1960  a  British  crown  colony. 
The  Greek-speaking  Cypriots  sought  an  end  to  British  rule  and 
many  favored  enosis  (union)  with  Greece.  Fearing  discrimina- 
tion and  the  loss  of  identity,  the  Turkish-speaking  minority 
countered  with  proposals  for  partition  of  the  island  between 
the  two  ethnic  communities.  Conflict  between  the  two  commu- 
nities led  to  major  crises  in  1964  and  again  in  1967,  during 
which  Turkey  and  Greece — both  members  of  NATO — reached 
the  verge  of  war. 

Crisis  in  Turkish  Democracy 

The  Demirel  government's  majority  in  the  Grand  National 


48 


Historical  Setting 


Assembly  gradually  dissipated  after  the  1969  general  election  as 
factions  within  the  circle  of  its  initial  supporters  regrouped  in 
new  political  constellations.  In  1970  three  small  rightist  parties 
that  had  usually  cooperated  with  the  government  merged  as 
the  National  Salvation  Party  (Milli  Selamet  Partisi — MSP),  an 
explicitly  Islamic-oriented  party  that  imposed  politically  com- 
promising demands  on  Demirel  as  the  price  of  their  continued 
support.  Some  former  AP  members  deserted  the  AP  in  1971  to 
form  the  more  right-wing  Democratic  Party.  Other,  more  lib- 
eral AP  members,  dissatisfied  with  Demirel's  concessions  to  the 
right,  defected  from  the  party  and  sat  as  independents.  As  a 
result  of  these  shifts,  the  Demirel  government  lost  its  parlia- 
mentary majority  and,  in  the  eyes  of  critics,  forfeited  its  right  to 
govern  the  country.  Acts  of  politically  motivated  violence  and 
terrorism  escalated  in  frequency  and  intensity.  Unrest  was 
fueled  in  part  by  economic  distress,  perceptions  of  social  ineq- 
uities, and  the  slowness  of  reform,  but  protest  was  increasingly 
directed  at  Turkey's  military  and  economic  ties  to  the  West. 

Politics  and  Elections  in  the  1970s 

On  March  12,  1971,  the  armed  forces  chiefs,  headed  by  army 
commander  General  Faruk  Gurler,  presented  a  memorandum 
to  President  Sunay  demanding  the  installation  of  a  "strong  and 
credible  government."  The  military  leaders  warned  civilian 
officials  that  the  armed  forces  would  be  compelled  to  take  over 
the  administration  of  the  state  once  again  unless  a  government 
were  found  that  could  curb  the  violence  and  implement  the 
economic  and  social  reforms,  including  land  reform,  stipu- 
lated in  the  1961  constitution.  Demirel  resigned  the  same  day. 
The  incident  was  referred  to  as  the  "coup  by  memorandum." 

After  consultation  with  Gurler  and  the  other  armed  forces 
chiefs,  Sunay  asked  Nihat  Erim,  a  university  professor  and  CHP 
centrist,  to  form  a  "national  unity,  above-party  government" 
that  would  enlist  the  support  of  the  major  parties.  Erim  led  the 
first  of  a  series  of  weak  caretaker  cabinets  that  governed  Turkey 
until  the  October  1973  elections. 

A  joint  session  of  the  Grand  National  Assembly  was  con- 
vened in  March  1973  to  elect  a  successor  to  President  Sunay. 
Many  observers  had  assumed  that  General  Gurler,  whose  candi- 
dacy had  the  open  backing  of  the  armed  forces,  would  be 
elected  without  serious  opposition,  but  Demirel  was  deter- 
mined to  resist  what  he  considered  dictation  by  the  military. 
The  AP  nominated  Tekin  Ariburun,  chairman  of  the  Senate,  to 


49 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


oppose  Gurler.  After  seven  ballots,  Gurler  and  Ariburun  with- 
drew. When  Sunay's  term  expired  on  March  28,  Ariburun,  in 
his  capacity  as  Senate  chairman,  became  acting  president 
under  the  constitution.  On  April  6,  deputies  and  senators  in 
the  Grand  National  Assembly  elected  Fahri  Koruturk  president 
on  the  fifteenth  ballot.  Significantly,  the  new  president,  a  sev- 
enty-year-old retired  admiral  who  had  served  as  an  indepen- 
dent member  of  the  Senate  since  1968,  had  a  direct  tie  to 
Ataturk,  who  reportedly  had  conferred  on  him  the  name 
Koruturk,  meaning  "Protect  the  Turks." 

In  the  1973  election,  Ecevit's  CHP  increased  its  support  by 
more  than  1  million  votes  by  calling  for  redistribution  of  wealth 
through  taxation  and  social  services,  rural  development,  land 
reform,  continued  state  direction  of  economic  activity,  and  a 
general  amnesty  for  political  prisoners  detained  under  martial 
law.  However,  holding  only  185  seats,  the  party  failed  to  gain  an 
overall  majority  in  the  Grand  National  Assembly.  The  AP, 
which  saw  its  share  of  the  vote  decline  to  30  percent,  retained 
only  149  seats.  A  large  segment  of  its  right-wing  support  was 
siphoned  off  by  the  MSP  and  the  Democratic  Party,  which  won 
forty-eight  seats  and  forty-five  seats,  respectively.  The  Republi- 
can Reliance  Party  (RRP),  formed  by  the  merger  of  centrist 
groups  that  had  seceded  earlier  from  the  CHP,  won  thirteen 
seats.  The  MHP  took  three  seats. 

The  most  significant  consequence  of  the  1973  election  was 
that  the  Democratic  Party  and  the  MSP  held  the  balance  of 
power  in  parliament,  and  it  was  unlikely  that  any  coalition  gov- 
ernment could  be  formed  without  the  participation  of  one  or 
both  of  them.  The  politicians  in  the  Democratic  Party  strongly 
resented  the  warnings  periodically  handed  down  to  elected 
officials  by  military  leaders,  but  also  disapproved  of  Demirel  on 
personal  as  well  as  political  grounds.  The  MSP  was  led  by  Nec- 
mettin  Erbakan,  who  had  been  leader  of  the  proscribed  New 
Order  Party.  The  MSP  was  regarded  as  a  revival  of  that  party 
under  a  new  name.  The  principal  plank  in  the  MSP's  platform 
was  the  restoration  of  Islamic  law  and  practice  in  Turkey.  The 
party  sought  improved  relations  with  other  Muslim  countries 
and  less  reliance  on  the  West,  yet  was  also  ardently  anticommu- 
nist.  Advocating  direct  election  of  the  president  and  the 
strengthening  of  executive  authority,  the  MSP,  while  upholding 
the  right  to  private  property,  opposed  the  liberal  economic  pol- 
icies favored  by  the  AP. 


50 


Historical  Setting 


In  January  1974,  Ecevit,  leader  of  the  party  founded  by 
Ataturk,  reached  a  short-lived  agreement  with  Erbakan,  the 
head  of  an  Islamic  revivalist  party,  to  join  in  a  coalition  govern- 
ment in  which  Erbakan  would  be  Ecevit's  deputy  prime  minis- 
ter. In  September  the  MSP  pulled  out  of  the  coalition.  Ecevit 
remained  prime  minister  at  the  head  of  another  caretaker  gov- 
ernment while  Korutiirk  vainly  tried  to  interest  Demirel  in  join- 
ing with  the  CHP  in  a  government  of  national  unity.  In 
November,  Korutiirk  persuaded  Sadi  Irmak,  an  elderly  senator 
and  an  independent,  to  preside  over  a  nonparty  government 
and  prepare  the  country  for  an  early  general  election.  Irmak's 
failure  to  obtain  a  parliamentary  vote  of  confidence  created  a 
parliamentary  crisis  that  left  Turkey  without  a  stable,  majority- 
based  government  for  more  than  a  year,  during  which  time 
economic  conditions  continued  to  deteriorate,  fanning  unrest 
around  the  country.  Late  in  1974,  four  of  the  five  right-of-cen- 
ter  parties  in  the  Grand  National  Assembly — the  AP,  MSP, 
MHP,  and  RRP — formed  an  opposition  bloc,  called  the 
National  Front.  In  March  1975,  the  National  Front  parties 
joined  in  a  minority  coalition  government  under  Demirel's  pre- 
miership. Despite  its  ineffectiveness,  the  National  Front  coali- 
tion managed  to  struggle  along  for  two  years,  maintaining  a 
slim  parliamentary  majority  dependent  on  support  from  inde- 
pendents. 

Trading  on  Ecevit's  enormous  popularity,  in  the  1977  elec- 
tion the  CHP  increased  its  share  of  the  vote  to  more  than  40 
percent  and  remained  the  largest  party  in  the  Grand  National 
Assembly.  However,  the  213  seats  that  it  won  were  still  insuffi- 
cient to  form  a  single-party  government.  The  AP  had  also 
improved  its  standing  by  taking  back  some  of  the  votes  lost  to 
other  right-wing  parties  in  1973;  it  returned  189  deputies.  MSP 
representation  was  cut  in  half,  to  twenty-four  seats,  and  the 
Democratic  Party  was  reduced  to  one  seat.  The  MHP,  however, 
nearly  doubled  its  vote  and  elected  sixteen  deputies.  Despite  its 
electoral  success,  the  CHP  failed  to  form  a  governing  coalition. 

At  length  Demirel  put  together  another  right-of-center  gov- 
ernment, linking  the  AP  with  the  MSP  and  the  MHP  in  a  coali- 
tion  that  depended  on  a  four-seat  majority.  But  the 
inducements  that  he  offered  to  assure  cooperation  caused  con- 
cern within  the  liberal  wing  of  his  own  party.  Under  the 
arrangement,  responsibility  for  key  areas  of  concern — public 
order,  the  economy,  and  social  reform — was  divided  among  the 
three  party  leaders.  Demirel  was  assigned  internal  security, 


51 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Erbakan  the  economy,  and  Turkes  social  affairs,  including  edu- 
cation. Each  leader  expected  to  exercise  exclusive  authority  in 
his  particular  area,  but  the  arrangement  soon  proved  unwork- 
able. Meanwhile,  groups  identified  with  one  of  the  coalition 
partners,  the  MHP,  were  among  the  principal  instigators  of  the 
mounting  political  violence. 

Anger  and  frustration  at  the  government's  ineffectiveness  in 
dealing  with  the  economy  and  restoring  public  order  led  to  an 
erosion  of  support  from  liberal  AP  deputies.  On  the  last  day  of 
1977,  the  Demirel  government  was  defeated  on  a  vote  of  confi- 
dence in  which  a  dozen  AP  deputies  sided  with  the  CHP  oppo- 
sition. The  party  leaders  having  ruled  out  a  "grand  coalition," 
President  Koruturk  turned  to  Ecevit  to  lead  a  new  government, 
which  was  backed  by  a  four-seat  parliamentary  majority. 

The  Ecevit  administration  was  crisis-ridden  from  the  start. 
The  prime  minister's  attempt  to  combine  regard  for  civil  liber- 
ties with  tougher  law-and-order  measures  satisfied  no  one,  least 
of  all  the  military  and  the  police.  In  December  1978,  the  gov- 
ernment was  forced  to  proclaim  martial  law  in  thirteen  prov- 
inces in  reaction  to  a  serious  outbreak  of  sectarian  violence. 
The  calm  imposed  by  martial  law  was  only  temporary,  and  in 
April  1979,  the  government  extended  legal  restrictions. 

Ecevit  resigned  in  October  1979,  after  the  CHP  lost  ground 
to  the  AP  in  by-elections,  and  advised  President  Koruturk  to 
summon  Demirel  to  replace  him.  Demirel  rejected  Ecevit's  sub- 
sequent proposal  for  a  "grand  coalition"  and  chose  instead  to 
put  together  a  technocratic  government  whose  members  were 
selected  for  their  competence  rather  than  their  political  affilia- 
tion. Subsidies  to  state  enterprises  were  reduced  as  part  of  a 
plan  for  restructuring,  but  attempts  to  rationalize  the  work- 
force and  control  labor  costs  were  challenged  by  the  trade 
unions  in  a  series  of  strikes.  Demirel  countered  by  extending 
martial  law  still  further,  imposing  severe  curbs  on  union  activ- 
ity, and  restricting  public  assembly.  Meanwhile,  military  leaders 
made  no  secret  of  their  uneasiness  at  the  growing  influence 
that  religious  sectarianism  was  having  on  politics  in  obvious 
defiance  of  the  constitution. 

President  Korutiirk's  seven-year  term  in  office  expired  in 
April  1980.  After  100  ballots,  the  joint  session  of  the  Grand 
National  Assembly  failed  to  agree  on  a  successor.  Koruturk 
retired  on  schedule,  and  the  chairman  of  the  Senate,  Ihsan 
Sabri  Qaglayangil,  was  installed  as  acting  president  of  the 


52 


Historical  Setting 


republic.  £aglayangil  could  do  little  more  than  provide  the  sig- 
nature necessary  for  the  enactment  of  legislation. 

Conflict  and  Diplomacy:  Cyprus  and  Beyond 

The  historical  distrust  between  Turkey  and  Greece  was  com- 
pounded during  the  1970s  by  the  unfolding  Cyprus  dispute 
and  conflicting  claims  in  the  Aegean  Sea.  Problems  arising 
from  the  relationship  between  Turkish-  and  Greek-speaking 
Cypriots  on  the  island  had  produced  a  pattern  of  confronta- 
tion between  the  two  countries  during  the  previous  decade. 

In  July  1974,  the  president  of  Cyprus,  Archbishop  Makarios 
III,  demanded  withdrawal  of  Greek  army  officers  assigned  to 
the  National  Guard  on  the  well-founded  charge  that  they  were 
using  their  position  to  subvert  his  government.  In  reaction, 
Athens  engineered  an  anti-Makarios  coup,  which  was  carried 
out  successfully  by  conspirators  planning  union  with  Greece.  In 
Ankara,  Prime  Minister  Ecevit  condemned  the  coup  as  consti- 
tuting a  direct  threat  to  Cyprus's  Turkish  minority.  At  the  UN, 
the  Turkish  representative  stated  that  his  government  had 
determined  that  Greece's  direct  involvement  in  the  coup  was 
aimed  at  the  annexation  of  Cyprus  in  violation  of  the  1960 
independence  agreement  guaranteed  by  Turkey,  Greece,  and 
Britain.  He  stressed  that  Turkey  had  a  clear  responsibility 
under  the  agreement  to  protect  the  rights  of  the  Turkish  Cyp- 
riot  community. 

Between  July  20  and  22,  1974,  some  30,000  Turkish  troops, 
supported  by  air  and  naval  units,  were  dropped  or  landed  on 
Cyprus  in  the  Kyrenia  area  and  advanced  toward  Nicosia,  the 
Cypriot  capital.  By  the  time  a  UN-sponsored  cease-fire  went 
into  effect  on  July  22,  Turkish  troops  controlled  the  twenty- 
kilometer-long  Nicosia-Kyrenia  road  and  occupied  territory  on 
both  sides  of  it,  in  some  places  thirty  kilometers  deep,  in  an 
area  that  had  a  large  Turkish  Cypriot  population. 

The  discredited  Greek  government  fell  within  days  as  a 
result  of  the  Cyprus  imbroglio.  Meeting  in  Geneva  on  July  30, 
the  foreign  ministers  of  the  three  guaranteeing  powers — Turan 
Gunes  of  Turkey,  James  Callaghan  of  Britain,  and  Georgios 
Mavros  representing  the  new  provisional  Greek  government — 
accepted  the  establishment  of  a  buffer  zone  between  the  two 
sides  on  Cyprus,  patrolled  by  UN  forces.  They  agreed  to  meet 
again  at  Geneva  in  a  week's  time  to  work  out  terms  for  a  consti- 
tutional government  that  would  be  representative  of  both  com- 
munities on  the  island. 


53 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Despite  the  cease-fire  and  a  UN  Security  Council  resolution 
calling  for  the  phased  reduction  of  hostile  forces  on  Cyprus, 
the  Turks  continued  to  land  reinforcements.  In  the  week 
between  the  cease-fire  and  the  first  Geneva  foreign  ministers' 
conference,  they  pushed  Greek  Cypriot  forces  to  the  western 
extremity  of  the  Kyrenia  Range  and  consolidated  their  posi- 
tions around  Nicosia.  Glafcos  Clerides,  acting  president  of 
Cyprus,  and  Rauf  Denktas,  leader  of  the  Turkish-Cypriot  com- 
munity, attended  the  second  session  of  the  Geneva  talks,  held 
August  8-14.  Denktas  rejected  the  notion  of  communal  auton- 
omy within  a  federal  system  favored  by  Greece  and  the  Greek 
Cypriot  authorities,  proposing  instead  the  creation  of  a  single 
autonomous  Turkish  region  in  the  northern  third  of  the 
island,  a  suggestion  Clerides  refused  to  consider.  Although  Tur- 
key backed  the  Turkish  Cypriot  demand  for  regional  auton- 
omy, Gunes,  speaking  for  his  government,  offered  an 
alternative  plan  that  would  have  allowed  the  Turkish  Cypriots 
the  same  amount  of  land  by  halving  their  holdings  in  the  north 
and  creating  several  autonomous  Turkish  enclaves  elsewhere 
on  the  island.  The  Gunes  plan  would  have  sharply  reduced  the 
number  of  refugees  from  both  communities.  Talks  broke 
down,  however,  when  Gunes  abruptly  rejected  a  request  from 
Mavros  and  Clerides  for  a  three-day  adjournment  to  enable 
them  to  communicate  the  Turkish  proposal  to  their  respective 
governments. 

Two  hours  after  the  collapse  of  the  Geneva  talks,  Turkish 
forces  on  Cyprus  moved  out  of  the  Kyrenia  bridgehead  to  cut 
off  the  northeastern  third  of  the  island.  After  three  days  of 
fighting,  Clerides  accepted  a  Turkish  cease-fire  offer  that  left 
the  Turks  in  control  of  all  territory  north  of  a  line  that  ran 
from  Lefka  in  the  west  to  Famagusta  in  the  east.  Ecevit  held 
that  this  division  should  form  the  basis  for  two  autonomous 
regions  within  a  federal  state.  In  February  1975,  the  Turkish 
Federated  State  of  Cyprus  was  established  in  the  northern 
region  with  Denktas  as  president.  In  1983  this  entity  was  consti- 
tuted as  the  Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus  (TRNC) .  To 
date,  only  Turkey  has  granted  official  recognition  to  the 
TRNC. 

The  partition  of  Cyprus  created  about  200,000  refugees  out 
of  a  population  of  about  600,000.  About  10,000  Turkish  Cyp- 
riot refugees  from  enclaves  in  the  south  were  flown  to  north- 
ern Cyprus  from  British  bases  by  way  of  Turkey.  Greek  Cypriot 
authorities  protested  this  action  and  charged  that  at  the  same 


54 


Historical  Setting 


time  the  Turks  were  sending  in  settlers  from  Anatolia  to  colo- 
nize areas  where  Greek  Cypriots  had  been  dispossessed. 

Relations  between  Turkey  and  Greece  had  already  been 
tense  before  the  Cyprus  crisis  as  a  consequence  of  the  continu- 
ing dispute  over  competing  rights  in  the  Aegean  region.  Ten- 
sions heightened  after  March  1974,  when  Greek  drillers  struck 
oil  off  the  island  of  Thasos.  Given  the  dependence  of  both 
countries  on  oil  imports,  this  development  brought  into  focus 
a  range  of  outstanding  regional  disputes:  the  demarcation  of 
the  continental  shelf  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  seabed 
mineral  rights,  extension  of  territorial  waters  and  airspace,  and 
the  militarization  of  Greek  islands  off  the  Turkish  coast.  A  few 
months  earlier,  in  late  1973,  Turkey  had  granted  oil  conces- 
sions in  several  Aegean  seabed  areas,  some  of  which  were  on 
part  of  the  continental  shelf  claimed  by  Greece. 

In  January  1975,  Greece  submitted  a  claim  to  the  Interna- 
tional Court  of  Justice  in  The  Hague  for  sole  rights  to  the  conti- 
nental shelf.  Greece  claimed  seabed  rights  off  each  of  the 
several  hundred  Greek  islands  in  the  Aegean,  some  of  them  no 
more  than  a  few  nautical  miles  from  the  Turkish  coast.  Greece 
also  unilaterally  attempted  to  extend  its  territorial  waters  from 
six  nautical  miles  to  the  twelve  nautical  miles  accepted  else- 
where in  the  world  and  prohibited  Turkish  overflights  in  those 
areas.  Prime  Minister  Irmak  responded  that  it  was  "unthink- 
able" that  Turkey  would  accept  the  Aegean  as  a  "Greek  lake" 
and  charged  that  Greek  claims  and  alleged  Greek  militariza- 
tion of  the  Aegean  were  in  contravention  of  the  1923  Treaty  of 
Lausanne.  However,  Greece  maintained  that  it  had  primary 
responsibility  for  the  defense  of  the  Aegean  as  part  of  its  NATO 
commitments. 

During  the  summer  of  1976,  Turkish  naval  escorts  con- 
fronted Greek  warships  when  the  latter  challenged  a  Turkish 
vessel  engaged  in  seismic  research  on  the  seabed  in  disputed 
waters  between  the  Turkish  islands  of  Gokceada  (Imroz)  and 
Bozca  Ada  (Tenedos).  For  a  brief  period,  war  between  the  two 
NATO  allies  seemed  imminent.  Although  Turkey  and  Greece 
subsequently  agreed  to  settle  outstanding  disputes  through 
negotiation,  troop  alerts  and  naval  demonstrations  were 
repeated  the  following  year.  Ecevit  and  Greek  prime  minister 
Konstantinos  Karamanlis  met  in  Switzerland  in  March  1978  to 
find  a  mutually  acceptable  framework  for  resolving  their  differ- 
ences. Two  months  later,  they  met  again  in  Washington  to  dis- 
cuss issues  of  bilateral  interest.  At  these  meetings,  the  two 


55 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

leaders  affirmed  their  mutual  wish  to  find  peaceful  solutions  to 
their  unresolved  disputes,  but  relations  between  the  two  coun- 
tries remained  strained. 

In  February  1975,  the  United  States  Congress  imposed  an 
arms  embargo  on  Turkey  on  the  grounds  that  United  States- 
supplied  military  equipment  had  been  used  illegally  during  the 
Cyprus  operation.  In  June  Turkey  confirmed  that  twenty 
United  States  installations  in  Turkey  would  be  subject  to  a  "new 
situation"  unless  negotiations  were  opened  on  their  future  sta- 
tus. President  Gerald  Ford  urged  Congress  to  reconsider  the 
arms  embargo,  citing  the  damage  it  would  do  to  vital  United 
States  interests  in  the  eastern  Mediterranean.  Angered  by  the 
defeat  in  Congress  the  following  month  of  a  measure  to  lift  the 
embargo,  the  Turkish  government  announced  the  abrogation 
of  the  1969  defense  cooperation  treaty  with  the  United  States 
and  placed  United  States  installations,  mainly  communications 
and  monitoring  stations,  under  Turkish  control.  This  action, 
however,  did  not  affect  the  only  United  States  combat  unit  in 
Turkey,  an  aircraft  squadron  based  in  Incirlik  under  NATO 
command. 

President  Ford  signed  legislation  in  October  that  partially 
lifted  the  embargo,  allowing  the  release  of  arms  already  pur- 
chased by  Turkey.  In  1978  the  administration  of  President 
Jimmy  Carter  succeeded  in  persuading  Congress  to  end  the 
embargo,  although  an  amendment  to  the  Security  Aid  Act 
required  periodic  review  of  conditions  as  a  prerequisite  to  con- 
tinued military  assistance.  Shortly  thereafter,  Turkey  allowed 
United  States  installations  to  reopen  under  Turkish  supervi- 
sion while  a  completely  new  defense  cooperation  pact  was 
negotiated. 

In  1980  United  States  military  assistance  to  Turkey 
amounted  to  US$250  million,  and  economic  aid  to  about 
US$200  million.  The  United  States  also  joined  other  countries 
of  the  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Develop- 
ment (OECD)  in  pledging  emergency  credits  in  a  bid  to  halt 
Turkey's  slide  into  bankruptcy  during  the  financial  crisis  of  the 
late  1970s. 

The  Economy:  An  Unresolved  Issue 

The  Turkish  economy  was  severely  hurt  by  the  increase  in  oil 
prices  after  1973.  Conditions  deteriorated  over  the  next  several 
years,  reaching  the  crisis  level  by  1977.  Inflation  reached  a  rate 
exceeding  50  percent  that  year,  while  unemployment  was  unof- 


56 


57 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

ficially  estimated  at  as  high  as  30  percent  of  the  available  work- 
force. Domestic  industries  also  lost  ground  in  export  markets 
because  of  increases  in  the  cost  of  raw  materials  and  energy. 
Turkey's  trade  deficit  reached  US$4  billion  in  1977,  contribut- 
ing to  a  balance  of  payments  deficit  nearly  five  times  the  1974 
level.  Becoming  skeptical  of  Turkey's  ability  to  repay  existing 
debts,  a  number  of  foreign  creditors  refused  to  extend  further 
loans.  As  a  result,  the  country  virtually  ran  out  of  foreign 
exchange  to  meet  its  immediate  commitments  and  was  faced 
with  national  bankruptcy,  which  was  averted  only  when  the 
Central  Bank  intervened  by  suspending  payments  for  many 
imports  and,  in  effect,  forced  credit  from  foreign  exporters. 

Under  pressure  from  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
(IMF — see  Glossary),  the  Demirel  government  belatedly 
announced  such  measures  as  a  10  percent  devaluation  of  the 
currency  and  substantial  increases  of  some  government-subsi- 
dized prices.  By  the  end  of  1977,  Turkey  had  accumulated  a 
total  external  debt  of  more  than  US$11  billion.  The  Ecevit  gov- 
ernment came  to  power  in  January  1978  with  a  stabilization 
program  that  essentially  had  had  to  be  approved  by  the  IMF 
and  the  OECD.  The  plan  included  incentives  for  foreign  invest- 
ment and  further  price  adjustments  to  restrain  domestic 
demand.  An  international  consortium  of  six  banks  collabo- 
rated in  restructuring  the  Turkish  debt  and  arranged  for  a 
US$500  million  loan  to  the  Central  Bank  for  economic  devel- 
opment. Subsidies  to  state-directed  enterprises  were  cut,  but 
Ecevit  insisted  on  increased  public  spending  for  employment 
and  regional  development,  which  he  argued  were  required  to 
maintain  "domestic  peace." 

Despite  the  stabilization  program,  another  major  devalua- 
tion of  the  Turkish  lira  (for  value  of  the  Turkish  lira — see  Glos- 
sary), and  rescheduling  of  the  foreign  debt,  there  were  no 
clear  signs  in  1978  that  economic  recovery  was  under  way.  In 
fact,  austerities  imposed  under  the  program  had  the  opposite 
effect  to  what  was  intended.  Because  of  energy  conservation 
efforts  and  restrictions  imposed  on  imports  of  raw  materials, 
industrial  production  fell.  Consequently,  exports  lagged  and 
unemployment  continued  to  increase.  State  enterprises  regis- 
tered losses  of  about  US$2  billion  for  the  year.  Because  of  a 
lack  of  confidence  in  the  government,  the  stabilization  pro- 
gram failed  to  attract  new  investment  from  abroad. 

On  returning  to  office  in  November  1979,  Demirel  pro- 
posed a  new  economic  stabilization  program  that  for  the  first 


58 


Historical  Setting 


time  emphasized  private-sector  initiatives.  The  program,  drawn 
up  in  consultation  with  a  consortium  of  international  banks, 
was  approved  by  parliament,  and  Turgut  Ozal,  an  economist, 
was  placed  in  charge  of  implementing  it.  Some  progress  was 
recorded,  but  the  government's  attention  was  diverted  by 
intensified  political  violence,  which  by  mid-1980  was  claiming 
twenty  or  more  lives  a  day. 

Challenges  to  Public  Order 

Turkey  faced  recurrent  political  violence  throughout  the 
1970s.  Political  parties,  particularly  those  of  the  extreme  right, 
organized  strong-arm  auxiliaries  for  street  fighting.  Kurdish 
nationalism  and  sectarian  divisions  were  also  factors.  From 
time  to  time,  specifically  from  1971  to  1973  and  again  in 
December  1978,  the  frequency  of  such  violence  and  the 
involvement  of  increasing  numbers  of  persons  led  to  the  impo- 
sition of  martial  law  in  parts  of  the  country. 

Most  of  the  violence-prone  groups  of  the  right  were  appar- 
ently attached,  directly  or  indirectly,  to  Tiirkes  and  the  MHP. 
The  best  organized  of  these,  the  Gray  Wolves,  were  armed  and 
regularly  resorted  to  terrorist  tactics.  Other  groups — particu- 
larly those  on  the  left — used  violence  in  the  hope  that  the  reac- 
tion of  the  state  would  lead  to  revolution.  Their  members 
assaulted  politicians  and  public  officials,  the  police,  journalists, 
and  members  of  rival  groups.  United  States  military  personnel 
stationed  in  Turkey  were  also  targets  of  attack.  Some  groups 
involved  in  the  violence  were  identified  with  the  Kurdish 
nationalist  movement. 

The  Ecevit  government  initially  tried  to  play  down  the  signif- 
icance of  Kurdish  separatism  and  to  avoid  actions  that  might 
alienate  the  many  Kurds  who  supported  the  CHP  and  lead 
them  to  join  extremist  groups  that  they  might  otherwise 
ignore.  Opposition  members  in  the  Grand  National  Assembly, 
who  tended  to  identify  any  sign  of  restiveness  in  the  Kurdish 
regions  with  Kurdish  separatism,  insisted  on  stronger  measures 
from  the  government.  In  April  1979,  the  martial  law  that  had 
been  proclaimed  in  some  parts  of  the  country  the  previous 
December  was  extended  to  provinces  with  Kurdish-speaking 
majorities. 

Estimates  vary,  but  some  sources  claim  that  as  many  as  2,000 
persons  died  in  political  violence  in  the  two-year  period  1978- 
79.  The  single  most  serious  incident  erupted  in  the  town  of 
Kahramanmaras  in  December  1978,  when  more  than  100  per- 


59 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

sons  were  killed  in  sectarian  conflict  between  Sunni  and  Alevi 
(see  Glossary)  Muslims.  The  incident  led  to  the  imposition  of 
martial  law  in  the  Kahramanmaras  Province  that  same  month. 

The  military  became  increasingly  uneasy  over  continued 
criticism  of  the  armed  forces  in  the  Grand  National  Assembly. 
The  apparent  inability  of  successive  governments  to  deal  with 
problems  of  the  economy  and  public  order  led  many  in  the 
military  to  conclude  that  the  1961  constitution  was  defective. 
Their  frustration  with  the  political  process  was  confirmed  in 
September  1980,  when  the  assembly  was  unable  to  fulfill  its 
constitutional  responsibility  to  elect  a  new  president. 

Military  Intervention  and  the  Return  to  Civilian  Rule 

Military  Interlude 

The  summer  of  1980  was  a  chaotic  time  in  Turkey.  Political 
violence  and  sectarian  unrest  mounted  in  the  cities  and  spread 
through  the  countryside.  The  work  of  parliament  had  come 
almost  to  a  standstill,  and  the  country  was  left  without  an 
elected  president.  On  September  5,  Ecevit  aligned  the  CHP 
with  Erbakan  and  his  NSP  to  force  the  resignation  of  Demirel's 
foreign  minister,  Hayrettin  Erkman,  whose  strongly  pro-West- 
ern views  had  won  him  the  approval  of  General  Staff  officers. 
The  next  day,  the  NSP  sponsored  a  massive  rally  at  Konya, 
where  Islamists  (also  seen  as  fundamentalists)  demonstrated  to 
demand  the  reinstatement  of  Islamic  law  in  Turkey,  reportedly 
showing  disrespect  for  the  flag  and  the  national  anthem.  These 
acts  were  regarded  as  an  open  renunciation  of  Kemalism  and  a 
direct  challenge  to  the  military.  On  September  7,  General 
Evren  met  secretly  with  armed  forces  and  police  commanders 
to  set  in  motion  plans  for  another  coup. 

In  the  early  morning  hours  of  September  12,  1980,  the 
armed  forces  seized  control  of  the  country.  There  was  no  orga- 
nized resistance  to  the  coup;  indeed,  many  Turks  welcomed  it 
as  the  only  alternative  to  anarchy.  Whereas  the  1960  and  1971 
military  coups  had  institutional  reform  as  their  objective,  the 
1980  action  was  undertaken  to  shore  up  the  order  created  by 
the  earlier  interventions.  A  five-member  executive  body,  the 
National  Security  Council  (NSC — see  Glossary),  was 
appointed.  Composed  of  the  service  chiefs  and  the  gendarme- 
rie commander,  it  was  headed  by  General  Evren,  who  was  rec- 
ognized as  head  of  state.  On  September  21,  the  NSC  installed  a 
predominantly  civilian  cabinet  and  named  Biilent  Ulusu,  a 


60 


Historical  Setting 


recently  retired  admiral,  prime  minister.  A  160-member  Con- 
sultative Assembly  subsequently  was  appointed  to  draft  a  consti- 
tution for  what  would  become  Turkey's  Third  Republic. 

The  first  order  of  business  for  the  military  regime  was  to 
reestablish  law  and  order  in  the  strife-torn  country.  Martial  law 
was  extended  to  all  the  provinces.  Suspected  militants  of  all 
political  persuasions  as  well  as  trade  union  and  student  activists 
were  arrested,  and  party  leaders  were  taken  into  custody  along 
with  a  large  number  of  deputies.  Demirel  and  Ecevit  were  soon 
released  but  told  to  keep  a  low  profile.  When  Ecevit  began  to 
publish  political  articles,  he  was  rearrested  and  jailed  for  sev- 
eral months.  The  Grand  National  Assembly  was  dissolved  and 
its  members  barred  from  politics  for  periods  of  up  to  ten  years. 
Political  parties  were  abolished  and  their  assets  liquidated  by 
the  state.  The  trade  unions  were  purged  and  strikes  banned. 
Workers  who  were  striking  at  the  time  of  the  coup  were  given 
substantial  pay  raises  and  ordered  back  to  their  jobs. 

Altogether,  some  30,000  people  were  reported  arrested  in 
the  first  few  weeks  after  the  coup.  Figures  are  uncertain,  but  a 
year  later  about  25,000  were  still  being  held,  and,  after  two 
years,  an  estimated  10,000  remained  in  custody,  some  without 
having  been  formally  charged.  Tiirkes  and  nearly  600  of  his  fol- 
lowers from  the  MHP  were  tried  on  charges  of  committing  or 
abetting  terrorist  acts.  A  number  of  those  found  guilty  of  ter- 
rorism were  hanged.  Erbakan  and  Tiirkes  were  subsequently 
convicted  of  election  tampering  and  given  two-year  prison 
terms.  Turkey's  international  reputation  suffered  as  a  result  of 
charges  of  political  repression,  arbitrary  arrest,  imprisonment 
without  trial,  torture,  and  other  human  rights  violations.  West 
European  governments  appealed  to  the  military  regime  to 
restore  parliamentary  rule,  and  a  portion  of  the  OECD's  relief 
package  for  Turkey  was  withheld.  The  European  Community 
also  suspended  financial  assistance,  and  Turkish  delegates  were 
denied  their  seats  in  the  assembly  of  the  Council  of  Europe. 

The  performance  of  the  Turkish  economy  improved  signifi- 
cantly in  the  first  two  years  after  the  military  intervention.  The 
new  regime  saw  to  it  that  the  economic  stabilization  program 
introduced  by  Demirel  was  implemented  under  the  direction 
of  Ozal,  one  of  the  few  members  of  the  former  government 
retained  after  the  coup.  Austerity  measures  were  strictly 
enforced,  bringing  the  inflation  rate  down  to  30  percent  in 
1982.  Disagreement  developed  within  the  government,  how- 
ever, over  the  strict  monetarist  policies  promoted  by  Ozal, 


61 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

which  were  seen  in  some  quarters  as  running  counter  to 
Kemalist  principles.  Ozal  was  forced  to  resign  as  minister  of 
state  in  July  1982,  when  the  country's  largest  money  broker,  the 
Kastelli  Bank,  collapsed. 

Politics  and  the  Return  to  Civilian  Rule 

The  draft  of  a  new  constitution  was  presented  by  the  Consul- 
tative Assembly  to  the  nation  on  July  17,  1982.  In  providing  for 
a  strong  presidency,  it  took  partial  inspiration  from  the  1958 
constitution  that  established  France's  Fifth  Republic.  The  con- 
stitution was  put  to  a  national  referendum  on  November  7, 
1982,  and  received  approval  from  91.4  percent  of  the  elector- 
ate. The  only  parts  of  the  country  to  register  significant  "no" 
votes  were  those  with  large  Kurdish  populations.  Included  in 
the  vote  was  approval  of  Evren  as  president  for  a  seven-year 
term.  He  took  office  on  November  9,  1982. 

A  new  law  on  political  parties  was  issued  in  March  1983, 
which  included  a  ten-year  ban  on  all  politicians  active  in  the 
pre-September  1980  period.  Parties  were  invited  to  form  so  as 
to  contest  parliamentary  elections  later  in  the  year  but  were 
required  to  receive  approval  from  the  military  rulers.  Of  fifteen 
parties  requesting  certification,  only  three  received  approval: 
the  Motherland  Party  (Anavatan  Partisi — ANAP),  the  Populist 
Party  (Halkci  Partisi — HP),  and  the  Nationalist  Democracy 
Party  (Milliyetci  Demokrasi  Partisi — MDP),  the  latter  being  the 
clear  favorite  of  the  military. 

The  Motherland  Party  was  led  by  Turgut  Ozal,  who  had 
helped  formulate  the  economic  stabilization  plan  under  the 
1979  Demirel  government  and  then  implemented  the  program 
under  the  military  government.  Ozal  was  able  to  draw  on  sup- 
port from  a  broad  coalition  of  forces  from  the  political  land- 
scape of  the  1970s.  The  Motherland  Party  drew  to  its  ranks 
adherents  of  the  old  Justice  Party,  the  Islamist  National  Salva- 
tion Party,  and  the  extreme  right-wing  Nationalist  Action  Party. 
The  Populist  Party,  which  came  closest  to  expressing  the  tradi- 
tional Kemalist  values  of  the  CHP,  was  led  by  Necdet  Calp.  The 
Nationalist  Democracy  Party  was  seen  by  the  electorate  as  the 
party  of  the  generals,  who  openly  supported  it.  Its  leader,  Tur- 
gut Sunalp,  was  a  retired  general.  The  Motherland  Party  came 
to  be  viewed  by  the  electorate  as  the  most  distant  from  the  mili- 
tary, and  its  success  in  the  first  postcoup  election  may  be  largely 
attributed  to  this  perception. 


62 


Historical  Setting 


In  parliamentary  elections  held  on  November  6,  1983,  the 
Motherland  Party  won  45.2  percent  of  the  vote  and  an  absolute 
majority  of  seats  in  the  new  unicameral  National  Assembly  The 
Populist  Party  won  30.5  percent  of  the  vote,  and  the  Nationalist 
Democracy  Party  obtained  only  23.3  percent  of  the  vote.  The 
results  were  widely  viewed  as  a  rebuke  to  the  military. 

Municipal  elections  followed  the  parliamentary  elections 
early  the  following  year.  Prior  to  the  March  25,  1984,  election 
date,  the  assembly  voted  to  allow  some  of  the  banned  parties  to 
participate.  Among  the  new  parties  were  the  Social  Democratic 
Party  (Sosyal  Demokrat  Parti — Sodep),  led  by  university  profes- 
sor Erdal  Inonii,  son  of  Turkey's  second  president,  and  the 
True  Path  Party  (Dogru  Yol  Partisi — DYP),  led  unofficially  by 
Suleyman  Demirel.  The  Motherland  Party  continued  as  Tur- 
key's leading  party,  claiming  41.5  percent  of  the  vote  nation- 
wide; the  Social  Democratic  Party  drew  23.5  percent,  and  the 
True  Path  Party  13.5  percent.  Another  new  party  with  a  reli- 
gious orientation,  the  Welfare  Party  (Refah  Partisi — RP;  also 
seen  as  Prosperity  Party),  garnered  4.5  percent. 

The  two  parties  that  had  competed  with  the  Motherland 
Party  in  the  previous  general  elections  now  appeared  even 
weaker,  receiving  some  7  percent  of  the  vote  each.  The  1984 
municipal  elections  would  be  the  last  in  which  each  would 
compete.  In  November  1985,  the  Populist  Party  merged  with 
the  Social  Democratic  Party,  and  in  May  1986  the  leadership  of 
the  Nationalist  Democracy  Party  voted  to  dissolve  the  organiza- 
tion. Most  of  the  party  faithful  found  a  new  home  in  the  broad 
spectrum  that  made  up  the  Motherland  Party;  others  joined 
the  True  Path  Party.  At  this  time,  Ecevit  also  emerged  with  a 
rival  left-of-center  party,  the  Democratic  Left  Party  (Demokra- 
tik  Sol  Partisi — DSP),  officially  led  by  his  wife,  Rahsan. 

In  national  elections  for  local  government  officials  held  on 
September  28,  1986,  Ozal's  party  saw  its  popularity  decline, 
although  it  still  garnered  a  plurality  of  votes.  The  Motherland 
Party  received  32  percent  of  votes  cast,  compared  with  23.7  per- 
cent for  the  True  Path  Party,  which  emerged  as  the  second  larg- 
est party  at  a  time  when  Demirel,  its  de  facto  leader,  was  still 
officially  banned  from  politics.  The  product  of  a  merger,  the 
new  Social  Democratic  Populist  Party  (Sosyal  Demokrat  Halkci 
Parti— SHP)  took  22.7  percent  of  the  vote;  the  DSP  drew  8.5 
percent.  Following  this  election,  Ozal  found  himself  under 
increasing  pressure  to  restore  the  political  rights  of  the  banned 
politicians.  The  assembly  repealed  the  provisional  article  of  the 


63 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

constitution  that  would  have  banned  them  from  political  activ- 
ity until  1991. 

Following  the  constitutional  amendments,  which  also 
enlarged  the  National  Assembly  to  450  seats,  the  prime  minis- 
ter announced  that  assembly  elections  would  be  held  early,  on 
November  29.  Ozal  also  amended  the  election  laws  to  increase 
the  advantage  to  large  parties,  which  under  existing  laws 
already  stood  to  gain  from  minimum-threshold  provisions  and 
the  manner  in  which  extra  seats  were  allocated.  The  Mother- 
land Party  saw  its  electoral  percentage  drop  to  36.3  percent, 
nearly  10  percentage  points  below  its  1983  total,  but  given  the 
late  amendments  to  the  electoral  law,  the  party  retained  an 
absolute  majority  in  the  assembly  with  292  seats,  or  65  percent 
of  the  total.  The  SHP  won  24.8  percent  of  the  vote  and 
received  22  percent  of  the  seats;  Demirel's  party  won  19.2  per- 
cent of  the  vote  but  only  13  percent  of  the  seats.  The  leader  of 
the  True  Path  Party  denounced  the  late  changes  to  the  election 
law  and  dubbed  the  new  government  the  "election-law  govern- 
ment." None  of  the  other  parties  competing  reached  the 
required  10  percent  threshold;  Ecevit's  DSP  received  8.5  per- 
cent of  the  vote,  while  Erbakan's  Welfare  Party  received  less 
than  7  percent. 

In  1989,  as  Evren's  term  as  president  drew  to  an  end,  Ozal 
announced  that  he  would  seek  to  succeed  him.  This  decision 
was  made  despite  the  steadily  declining  popularity  of  Ozal  and 
the  Motherland  Party.  In  municipal  elections  on  March  26,  the 
Motherland  Party  polled  only  21.9  percent  of  the  vote,  third 
behind  the  SHP's  28.2  percent  and  the  True  Path  Party's  25.6 
percent.  On  October  30,  1989,  parliament  elected  Ozal  Tur- 
key's eighth  president.  He  was  sworn  in  on  November  9,  after 
Bayar  the  second  civilian  in  modern  Turkish  history  to  hold 
the  position. 

Ozal's  popularity  declined  steadily,  largely  because  of  prob- 
lems in  the  economy.  Of  particular  concern  was  the  recurrence 
of  high  inflation,  which  had  returned  to  precoup  levels  and 
was  rapidly  eroding  the  purchasing  power  of  most  Turks.  Cou- 
pled with  economic  difficulties  were  widespread  perceptions  of 
government  corruption  and  nepotism,  which  forced  the  resig- 
nation of  several  members  of  Ozal's  government. 

In  the  summer  of  1990,  the  crisis  in  the  Persian  Gulf  result- 
ing from  Iraq's  invasion  of  Kuwait  gave  Ozal  the  opportunity  to 
regain  the  political  initiative.  The  Turkish  government  moved 
quickly  to  support  UN  sanctions  against  Iraq,  on  August  7  stop- 


64 


Old-style  house  of  Ottoman 
times  in  Istanbul 
Courtesy  Hermine  Dreyfus s 


ping  the  flow  of  oil  through  the  pipeline  from  Iraq  to  Turkey's 
Mediterranean  coast.  In  September  the  assembly  voted  to  allow 
foreign  troops  onto  Turkish  soil  and  to  authorize  Turkish 
troops  to  serve  in  the  Persian  Gulf.  Opposition  parties  found 
little  to  offer  in  the  way  of  other  options.  Ozal  no  doubt  hoped 
that  Turkey's  willing  participation  in  the  United  States-led  coa- 
lition would  strengthen  the  country's  image  abroad  as  a  crucial 
ally,  a  particular  concern  in  the  post-Cold  War  world.  Some 
have  speculated  that  he  hoped  Turkish  involvement  would  lead 
to  EC  admission,  much  as  Turkey's  participation  in  the  Korean 
War  had  provided  the  opportunity  to  join  NATO.  The  govern- 
ment authorized  the  use  of  the  air  base  at  Incirlik  by  Allied  air- 
craft in  the  bombing  campaign  against  Iraq.  In  addition, 
Turkish  troops  were  deployed  along  the  Turkish-Iraqi  border, 
although  Ankara  insisted  that  it  did  not  intend  to  open  a  sec- 
ond front  against  Iraq  and  that  it  remained  committed  to  Iraq's 
territorial  integrity. 

In  the  aftermath  of  the  Persian  Gulf  War,  Iraqi  Kurds 
attempted  to  throw  off  the  rule  of  Saddam  Husayn  in  northern 
Iraq,  following  encouragement  by  United  States  officials.  The 
uprising,  which  failed  to  receive  support  from  the  allied  coali- 
tion, was  quickly  crushed,  leading  a  massive  number  of  Iraqi 
Kurdish  civilians  to  seek  safety  in  Iran  and  Turkey.  The  Turkish 
government  was  unable  or  unwilling  to  permit  several  hundred 


65 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

thousand  refugees  to  enter  the  country.  The  coalition  allies, 
together  with  Turkey,  proposed  the  creation  of  a  "security 
zone"  in  northern  Iraq.  By  mid-May  1991,  some  200,000  Kurd- 
ish refugees  had  been  persuaded  to  return  to  Iraq. 

The  collapse  of  the  Soviet  Union  and  its  East  European  bloc 
had  significant  implications  for  Turkey's  foreign  policy.  In  the 
trans-Caucasian  region  of  the  former  Soviet  Union,  the  armed 
conflict  between  the  newly  independent  republics  of  Armenia 
and  Azerbaijan  over  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  region  found  the 
Turkish  government  trying  to  remain  above  the  fray,  despite 
popular  sympathy  for  the  Azerbaijani  claims.  Turkey  sought 
close  ties  with  the  new  republics  of  Central  Asia,  arguing  that 
Turkey's  experience  as  a  secular  republic  could  serve  as  a  use- 
ful model  for  these  states. 

Relations  with  Bulgaria,  which  were  strained  by  the  faltering 
communist  regime's  persecution  of  ethnic  Turkish  Bulgarians 
in  the  late  1980s,  improved  following  that  regime's  collapse. 
The  new  government  abandoned  the  campaign  of  ethnic 
harassment.  Elsewhere  in  the  Balkans,  Turkey  maintained  close 
relations  with  Albania  and  established  contact  with  the  Former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia. 

Relations  with  Greece  continued  to  be  complicated  by  long- 
standing differences  over  Cyprus  and  naval  and  air  rights  in  the 
Aegean  Sea.  In  1986  Ozal  paid  an  official  visit  to  the  self-pro- 
claimed Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,  which  to  date 
remains  without  diplomatic  recognition  from  any  state  other 
than  Turkey.  In  March  1987,  Greece  and  Turkey  nearly  came  to 
blows  over  oil-drilling  rights  in  the  Aegean  Sea.  Nevertheless, 
both  countries'  governments  displayed  a  willingness  to  empha- 
size diplomacy  over  force.  In  June  1989,  Ozal  became  the  first 
Turkish  prime  minister  to  visit  Athens  in  thirty-six  years.  Talks 
on  the  future  of  Cyprus,  held  under  UN  auspices,  have 
remained  inconclusive,  and  the  island  remains  under  a  de 
facto  partition  after  more  than  twenty  years. 

Turkey's  1991  parliamentary  elections  may  have  been  the 
most  significant  since  the  restoration  of  civilian  rule.  Political 
power  passed  peacefully  from  the  Motherland  Party  to  its 
major  rival,  the  True  Path  Party.  In  the  vote  held  on  October 
21,  Demirel's  party  won  about  27  percent  and  captured  the 
largest  block  of  seats,  178.  The  Motherland  Party,  widely  pre- 
dicted as  destined  for  oblivion,  surprised  its  critics  by  polling 
some  24  percent  of  the  vote  and  winning  115  seats.  The  SHP, 
which  had  expected  to  do  better,  won  20.8  percent  of  the  vote, 


66 


Historical  Setting 


or  eighty-eight  seats.  Left-of-center  votes  were  split  between  the 
SHP  and  the  DSP;  the  latter  gained  about  10.8  percent  of  the 
vote  and  seven  seats.  The  Welfare  Party  appeared  to  do  very 
well,  with  16.9  percent  and  sixty-two  seats,  but  this  result 
reflected  a  strategic  decision  to  join  forces  with  another  reli- 
giously oriented  party  in  order  to  surpass  the  10  percent 
threshold.  Following  the  elections,  the  alliance  was  dissolved  in 
the  assembly.  Although  the  Motherland  and  True  Path  parties 
were  not  too  far  apart  ideologically,  the  personal  discord 
between  Ozal  and  Demirel  precluded  any  coalition  arrange- 
ment. Instead,  Demirel  made  common  cause  with  Erdal 
Inonu's  SHP,  an  alliance  with  the  left  that  he  had  resisted 
throughout  the  1970s.  The  coalition  controlled  266  seats  in 
parliament  and  reflected  the  support  of  almost  48  percent  of 
the  electorate. 

Defining  the  place  of  the  Kurdish  ethnic  minority  in  Turkey 
remained  a  difficult  challenge  throughout  this  period;  indeed, 
it  may  have  ranked  as  the  primary  challenge  to  domestic  politi- 
cal stability.  Given  the  founding  principles  of  the  Turkish 
republic,  conceiving  the  country  as  the  homeland  of  the  Turks, 
any  proposed  recognition  of  Kurdish  linguistic  or  cultural 
rights  has  been  questioned  on  the  grounds  that  such  recogni- 
tion would  threaten  the  unity  of  the  Turkish  nation. 

President  Ozal  went  farther  than  any  Turkish  official  in 
extending  recognition  of  Kurdish  identity  when,  in  January 
1991,  he  proposed  rescinding  a  law  prohibiting  the  playing  of 
Kurdish  music  or  the  use  of  Kurdish  speech.  Law  2932,  passed 
in  1983  (declaring  the  mother  tongue  of  Turkish  citizens  to  be 
Turkish),  was  repealed  in  April  1991,  thereby  legalizing  Kurd- 
ish speech,  song,  and  music.  Proposals  were  also  floated  for  a 
relaxation  of  the  ban  on  Kurdish  in  the  print  and  broadcast 
media  and  in  education,  but  such  liberalization  did  not  occur. 

Since  the  restoration  of  civilian  rule,  Turkish  governments 
have  been  faced  with  the  armed  insurrection  of  the  Kurdistan 
Workers'  Party  (Partiya  Karkeran  Kurdistan — PKK) .  The  PKK, 
one  of  several  armed  Kurdish  guerrilla  organizations,  was 
founded  by  Abdullah  Ocalan  in  1978.  Ocalan  fled  to  Syria  after 
the  1980  coup.  The  PKK,  which  was  officially  banned  by  the 
Turkish  government,  began  a  sustained  guerrilla  campaign  in 
March  1984,  timed  to  coincide  with  the  beginning  of  the  Kurd- 
ish new  year.  The  conflict,  which  between  1984  and  1994 
claimed  about  12,000  lives,  showed  no  signs  of  abating  by  the 
early  1990s.  The  Turkish  army  was  unable  to  defeat  the  PKK 


67 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


with  military  force  alone,  while  the  PKK  was  no  closer  to  its 
goal  of  an  independent  Kurdish  state  in  southeastern  Turkey 
(see  Political  Parties,  ch.  4;  Kurdish  Separatists,  ch.  5). 

Economic  Stabilization  and  Prospects  for  the  1990s 

In  1980  the  rate  of  inflation  was  more  than  100  percent  at 
one  point  and  stayed  at  70  percent  for  most  of  the  year.  The 
economic  stabilization  program,  begun  before  the  coup,  now 
proceeded  unhindered  by  political  resistance.  The  program 
aimed  to  improve  Turkey's  balance  of  payments,  bring  infla- 
tion under  control,  and  create  an  export-oriented  free-market 
economy.  To  achieve  these  goals,  the  plan  sought  devaluation 
of  the  lira  on  a  continuing  basis,  increases  in  interest  rates  to 
reduce  inflation  and  overconsumption,  a  freeze  on  wages,  and 
a  reduction  in  state  subsidies.  Exports  were  to  be  encouraged 
through  subsidies  for  exporters,  reductions  in  bureaucratic 
regulations,  and  the  abolition  of  customs  duties  on  imports 
needed  for  export-oriented  industries.  Foreign  investment  was 
actively  encouraged  by  laws  providing  for  easy  repatriation  of 
capital  and  export  of  profits,and  the  establishment  of  four  free- 
trade  zones. 

The  results  of  the  ambitious  programs  of  the  1980s  were 
mixed.  On  the  negative  side,  purchasing  power  declined  40  to 
60  percent  in  the  decade  from  1979  to  1989.  Inflation,  which 
had  been  brought  down  to  annual  rates  of  30  to  40  percent  in 
the  early  1980s,  was  back  up  to  nearly  70  percent  by  1988.  The 
steady  decline  in  Ozal's  popularity  with  the  electorate  can  be 
attributed  in  large  part  to  these  disappointing  results.  The  gov- 
ernment continued  to  run  a  high  deficit,  partly  because  of  its 
unwillingness  or  inability  to  end  support  of  large  state-owned 
industries.  On  the  positive  side,  exports  grew  by  an  average  of 
22  percent  each  year  between  1980  and  1987.  Exports  in  1979 
amounted  to  US$2.3  billion;  in  1988  the  value  of  exports  had 
increased  to  US$11.7  billion.  Moreover,  industrial  exports  rose 
in  this  period  from  less  than  45  percent  of  all  exports  to  more 
than  72  percent. 

The  government  also  undertook  to  modernize  the  country's 
infrastructure,  emphasizing  improvements  in  roads  and  tele- 
communications. In  July  1988,  a  second  bridge  across  the 
Bosporus  was  opened,  paralleling  the  first  bridge  opened  in 
1973.  Together  with  a  bypass  road  around  Istanbul,  the  bridges 
were  intended  to  facilitate  commercial  traffic  moving  to  and 
from  Europe  and  the  Middle  East.  Of  perhaps  the  most  long- 


68 


Historical  Setting 


term  significance  was  the  ongoing  commitment  to  the  South- 
east Anatolia  Project  (Guneydogu  Anadolu  Projesi — GAP),  a 
series  of  dams  along  the  Tigris  and  Euphrates  rivers  that  when 
completed  would  include  hydroelectric  plants  as  well  as  exten- 
sive irrigation  works.  The  latter  were  projected  to  allow  for  the 
irrigation  of  1.6  million  hectares  of  land,  or  twice  the  area  pre- 
viously under  cultivation.  In  addition,  the  plentiful  hydroelec- 
tricity  would  supply  energy  for  Turkish  industry.  Because  of 
Turkey's  inability  to  come  to  agreement  with  its  downstream 
neighbors,  Iraq  and  Syria,  no  international  funds  were  made 
available  for  GAP.  The  project,  consequently,  was  self-financed. 
In  1992  a  milestone  was  reached  with  the  opening  of  the 
Atatiirk  Dam  on  the  Euphrates,  northwest  of  Urfa. 

On  April  17,  1993,  President  Ozal  died  suddenly  of  a  heart 
attack.  On  its  third  ballot,  on  May  16,  the  assembly  elected 
Suleyman  Demirel  as  Turkey's  ninth  president.  Demirel  was 
succeeded  by  former  economics  minister  Tansu  (filler,  who 
became  Turkey's  first  woman  prime  minister.  She  received 
nearly  90  percent  of  the  votes  cast  in  a  special  election  for  the 
leadership  of  the  True  Path  Party.  The  smooth  succession  of 
power  may  be  seen  as  evidence  that  civilian  rule  was  firmly  in 
place.  Moreover,  the  accession  of  filler  to  the  prime  minister's 
office,  the  second  highest  position  in  the  nation,  showed  the 
extent  to  which  Ataturk's  legacy,  and  in  particular  the  political 
rights  of  women,  was  becoming  ingrained  in  the  Turkish  body 
politic. 

*  *  * 

A  useful  introduction  to  Turkish  history  from  antiquity  to 
the  1980s  is  Turkey:  A  Short  History,  by  Roderic  H.  Davison, 
updated  to  1988.  The  most  thorough  scholarly  survey  of  Turk- 
ish history  to  1975  available  in  English  is  the  two-volume  History 
of  the  Ottoman  Empire  and  Modern  Turkey,  by  Stanford  J.  Shaw  and 
Ezel  Kural  Shaw.  For  the  modern  period,  Bernard  Lewis's  The 
Emergence  of  Modern  Turkey  remains  useful.  It  may  be  supple- 
mented by  two  recent  works,  Feroz  Ahmad's  The  Making  of  Mod- 
ern Turkey  and  Erik  J.  Zurcher's  Turkey:  A  Modern  History.  Also 
useful  for  the  period  up  to  1975  is  Modern  Turkey,  by  Geoffrey 
Lewis.  Patrick  Balfour  Kinross  has  written  the  standard  English 
biography  of  Atatiirk,  offering  a  sympathetic  evaluation  of  Tur- 
key's founding  father.  For  contemporary  Turkish  history,  see 
George  S.  Harris's  Turkey:  Coping  with  Crisis,  Feroz  Ahmad's  The 


69 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Turkish  Experiment  in  Democracy,  1950-1975,  and  Frank  Tachau's 
Turkey:  The  Politics  of  Authority,  Democracy,  and  Development.  (For 
further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


70 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Christianity  and  Islam  have  long  coexisted,  as  reflected  in  this  scene  in  Kars  in 
eastern  Turkey. 


THE  OFFICIAL  IMAGE  OF  TURKISH  society  promoted  by  the 
ruling  elite  since  the  1920s  is  one  of  relative  homogeneity  This 
image  has  been  enshrined  in  successive  constitutions  of  the 
republic,  including  the  1982  document,  in  which  it  is  stated 
that  "the  Turkish  state,  with  its  territory  and  nation,  is  an  indi- 
visible entity.  Its  language  is  Turkish."  In  reality,  however,  Turk- 
ish society  is  a  mosaic  of  diverse  and  at  times  contending  ethnic 
and  linguistic  groups.  The  question,  "Who  is  a  Turk?,"  contin- 
ued to  provoke  controversy  in  the  mid-1990s. 

Sociologists  and  other  scholars,  both  Turkish  and  foreign, 
have  noted  that  a  majority  of  the  population — estimated  at  the 
end  of  1994  at  61.2  million — accepts  as  true  Turks  only  those 
individuals  whose  native  tongue  is  Turkish  and  who  adhere  to 
Sunni  (see  Glossary)  Islam.  This  definition  excludes  a  sizable 
minority  of  Turkish  citizens  from  consideration  as  true  Turks. 
The  largest  group  within  this  minority  is  the  Kurds,  the  over- 
whelming majority  of  whom  speak  Kurdish,  an  Indo-European 
language  related  to  Persian,  as  their  native  tongue.  In  1994  esti- 
mates of  the  size  of  the  Kurdish  minority  in  Turkey  ranged 
from  10  to  20  percent  of  the  country's  total  population.  Since 
1990  demands  by  Kurdish  political  leaders  that  the  Kurdish 
minority  be  permitted  to  read,  write,  and  speak  Kurdish  have 
created  a  major  political  issue  in  Turkey  (see  Political  Interest 
Groups,  ch.  4). 

Although  most  adult  Kurds  are  Sunni  Muslims,  perhaps  as 
much  as  one-third  of  the  total  Kurdish  population  in  Turkey 
belongs  to  a  Shia  Muslim  sect  known  as  Alevi  (see  Glossary).  In 
addition  to  the  Kurdish  Alevi,  many  of  the  nation's  estimated 
700,000  to  1  million  Arabs  are  Alevi.  The  Alevi  Arabs — most  of 
whom  live  in  or  near  Hatay  Province — also  are  known  as 
Nusayri  and  maintain  discreet  ties  with  the  Alawi  (also  seen  as 
Alawites)  of  neighboring  Syria.  A  significant  number  of  Alevi 
are  ethnic  Turks. 

The  continued  presence  of  linguistic  and  religious  minori- 
ties conflicts  with  the  elite's  conception  of  a  modern  society 
that  is  Turkish-speaking  and  secular.  This  notion  was  an  inte- 
gral part  of  the  social  revolution  begun  after  World  War  I  by 
Mustafa  Kemal  (later  known  as  Atatiirk).  Linguistic  reform  was 
essential  to  Atauirk's  vision  of  the  new  Turkey,  and  the  reconsti- 
tuted Turkish  language  has  been  both  a  central  symbol  and  a 


73 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

powerful  mechanism  for  the  establishment  of  a  new  national 
identity.  Ataturk  institutionalized  the  secularization  of  the 
country  through  measures  that  included  abolishing  the  caliph- 
ate, disestablishing  Islam  as  the  state  religion,  suppressing  the 
unorthodox  but  highly  influential  dervish — or  mystical — 
orders,  closing  the  religious  courts,  and  ending  locally  based 
religious  education  (see  Ataturk's  Reforms,  ch.  1;  Secularist 
Reforms,  this  ch.).  Under  Ataturk's  leadership,  the  ideologi- 
cally secularist  and  modernist  urban  elite  ended  state  support 
and  patronage  of  Islamic  institutions  and  attempted  to  make 
religion  a  matter  solely  of  private  conscience. 

The  result  of  Ataturk's  reforms  was  the  creation  of  two  cul- 
tures: a  secularized  and  Westernized  elite  culture  and  a  mass 
culture  based  on  traditional  religious  values.  Prior  to  1950,  the 
elite's  attitude  toward  traditional  culture  tended  to  be  con- 
temptuous in  general  and  specifically  hostile  toward  religious 
expression.  Since  1950,  however,  the  elite  generally  has 
become  more  tolerant  of  religion,  or  at  least  of  orthodox 
Sunni  Islam,  and  various  political  parties  have  attempted  to 
conciliate  religious  interests,  albeit  within  the  framework  of 
Ataturk's  institutional  secularism.  Nevertheless,  in  the  mid- 
1990s  the  single  most  significant  distinction  in  Turkish  society 
remained  the  gap  separating  the  secular  elite  from  traditional 
culture. 

Since  the  early  nineteenth  century,  Western-oriented  secular 
education  has  been  a  major  factor  distinguishing  the  elite  and 
traditional  cultures.  By  1908  a  substantial  portion  of  the  gov- 
erning stratum,  particularly  the  military  officers  and  higher- 
ranking  members  of  the  bureaucracy,  had  received  a  secular 
education  in  their  youth.  Their  values,  knowledge,  and  view- 
points separated  them  sharply  from  the  illiterate,  religiously 
observant,  and  socially  traditional  masses.  The  cultural  differ- 
ence between  the  educated  and  the  uneducated,  the  urban 
and  the  rural,  the  modernist  and  the  traditionalist,  has  contin- 
ued to  affect  Turkish  society  in  multiple,  intertwined  ways.  The 
views  of  Ataturk,  who  articulated  the  values  of  the  secular  elite 
in  the  1920s  and  1930s,  remain  central  in  Turkey  more  than 
fifty  years  after  his  death.  Ataturk  identified  "civilization"  with 
the  culture  of  Europe,  contrasting  it  with  what  he  said  was  the 
backwardness,  ignorance,  and  obscurantism  of  the  common 
people  of  Turkey.  He  actively  promoted  a  "modern"  Turkey 
that  embraced  the  civilization  of  Europe  as  its  inspiration  and 
model.  Since  Ataturk's  time,  mediation  between  Turkey's  two 


74 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


cultures  has  been  and  remains  politically  problematic.  The 
emergence  in  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s  of  a  relatively  pop- 
ular political  party  appealing  to  what  it  defined  as  Islamic  val- 
ues has  tended  to  increase  the  polarization  of  the  elite  and 
nonelite  cultures.  In  the  mid-1990s,  the  Turkish  government 
was  attempting  to  reconcile  this  heretofore  divisive  trend. 

In  the  early  republican  period  of  the  1920s  and  1930s,  civil 
and  military  officials  occupied  the  unchallenged  pinnacle  of 
the  social  structure.  Since  that  time,  however,  competing  ele- 
ments, especially  businesspeople,  industrialists,  professionals, 
and  employees  of  private  organizations,  have  challenged  the 
supremacy  of  the  officials.  As  a  result,  the  social  complexion  of 
the  political  elite  has  been  in  transition  since  the  early  1980s, 
not  just  in  Ankara  and  Istanbul  but  in  other  cities  as  well.  In 
rural  areas,  however,  and  for  the  vast  majority  of  the  popula- 
tion, traditional  forms  and  values,  such  as  the  centrality  of  fam- 
ily life  and  adherence  to  an  ethical  blueprint  of  behavior 
perceived  in  religious  terms,  have  survived,  although  in  altered 
form.  Consequently,  the  balance  between  traditional  and 
"modern"  values  remains  uneasy. 

Geography 

Turkey  is  a  large,  roughly  rectangular  peninsula  situated 
bridge-like  between  southeastern  Europe  and  Asia.  Indeed,  the 
country  has  functioned  as  a  bridge  for  human  movement 
throughout  history.  Turkey  extends  more  than  1,600  kilome- 
ters from  west  to  east  but  generally  less  than  800  kilometers 
from  north  to  south.  Total  land  area  is  about  779,452  square 
kilometers,  of  which  755,688  square  kilometers  are  in  Asia  and 
23,764  square  kilometers  in  Europe. 

The  European  portion  of  Turkey,  known  as  Thrace  (Trakya), 
encompasses  3  percent  of  the  total  area  but  is  home  to  more 
than  10  percent  of  the  total  population.  Thrace  is  separated 
from  the  Asian  portion  of  Turkey  by  the  Bosporus  Strait  (Istan- 
bul Bogazi  or  Karadeniz  Bogazi),  the  Sea  of  Marmara  (Mar- 
mara Denizi),  and  the  Dardanelles  Strait  (Qanakkale  Bogazi). 
The  Asian  part  of  the  country  is  known  by  a  variety  of  names — 
Asia  Minor,  Asiatic  Turkey,  the  Anatolian  Plateau,  and  Anatolia 
(Anadolu).  The  term  Anatolia  is  most  frequently  used  in  spe- 
cific reference  to  the  large,  semiarid  central  plateau,  which  is 
rimmed  by  hills  and  mountains  that  in  many  places  limit  access 
to  the  fertile,  densely  settled  coastal  regions.  Astride  the  straits 
separating  the  two  continents,  Istanbul  is  the  country's  primary 


75 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


industrial,  commercial,  and  intellectual  center.  However,  the 
Anatolian  city  of  Ankara,  which  Ataturk  and  his  associates 
picked  as  the  capital  of  the  new  republic,  is  the  political  center 
of  the  country  and  has  emerged  as  an  important  industrial  and 
cultural  center  in  its  own  right  (see  fig.  1). 

External  Boundaries 

Turkey  is  bounded  by  eight  countries  and  six  bodies  of 
water.  Surrounded  by  water  on  three  sides  and  protected  by 
high  mountains  along  its  eastern  border,  the  country  generally 
has  well-defined  natural  borders.  Its  demarcated  land  frontiers 
were  settled  by  treaty  early  in  the  twentieth  century  and  have 
since  remained  stable.  The  boundary  with  Greece — 206  kilo- 
meters— was  confirmed  by  the  Treaty  of  Lausanne  in  1923, 
which  resolved  persistent  boundary  and  territorial  claims 
involving  areas  in  Thrace  and  provided  for  a  population 
exchange  (see  War  of  Independence,  ch.  1).  Under  the  agree- 
ment, most  members  of  the  sizable  Greek-speaking  community 
of  western  Turkey  were  forced  to  resettle  in  Greece,  and  the 
majority  of  the  Turkish-speaking  residents  of  Greek  Thrace 
were  removed  to  Turkey  The  1923  treaty  also  confirmed  Tur- 
key's 240-kilometer  boundary  with  Bulgaria. 

Since  1991  the  more  than  500-kilometer  boundary  with  the 
former  Soviet  Union,  which  was  defined  in  the  1921  treaties  of 
Moscow  and  Kars,  has  formed  Turkey's  borders  with  the  inde- 
pendent countries  of  Armenia  (268  kilometers),  Azerbaijan 
(nine  kilometers),  and  Georgia  (252  kilometers).  The  499-kilo- 
meter boundary  with  Iran  was  confirmed  by  treaty  in  1937. 
Turkey's  two  southern  neighbors,  Iraq  and  Syria,  had  been  part 
of  the  Ottoman  Empire  up  to  1918.  According  to  the  terms  of 
the  Treaty  of  Lausanne,  Turkey  ceded  all  its  claims  to  these  two 
countries,  which  had  been  organized  as  League  of  Nations 
mandates  under  the  governing  responsibility  of  Britain  and 
France,  respectively.  Turkey  and  Britain  agreed  on  the  331-kilo- 
meter boundary  between  Turkish  and  Iraqi  territory  in  the 
1926  Treaty  of  Angora  (Ankara).  Turkey's  boundary  with 
Syria — 822  kilometers  long — has  not  been  accepted  by  Syria. 
As  a  result  of  the  Treaty  of  Lausanne,  the  former  Ottoman  San- 
jak  (province)  of  Alexandretta  (present-day  Hatay  Province) 
was  ceded  to  Syria.  However,  France  agreed  in  June  1939  to 
transfer  Hatay  Province  to  Turkish  sovereignty,  despite  the 
strong  objections  of  Syria's  political  leaders.  Since  achieving 
independence  in  1946,  Syria  has  harbored  a  lingering  resent- 


7(3 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


ment  over  the  loss  of  the  province  and  its  principal  towns  of 
Antakya  and  Iskenderun  (formerly  Antioch  and  Alexandretta). 
This  issue  has  continued  to  be  an  irritant  in  Syrian-Turkish 
relations. 

Geology 

Turkey's  varied  landscapes  are  the  product  of  complex  earth 
movements  that  have  shaped  Anatolia  over  thousands  of  years 
and  still  manifest  themselves  in  fairly  frequent  earthquakes  and 
occasional  volcanic  eruptions.  Except  for  a  relatively  small  por- 
tion of  its  territory  along  the  Syrian  border  that  is  a  continua- 
tion of  the  Arabian  Platform,  Turkey  geologically  is  part  of  the 
great  Alpine  belt  that  extends  from  the  Atlantic  Ocean  to  the 
Himalaya  Mountains.  This  belt  was  formed  during  the  Tertiary 
Period  (about  65  million  to  1.6  million  B.C.),  as  the  Arabian, 
African,  and  Indian  continental  plates  began  to  collide  with 
the  Eurasian  plate,  and  the  sedimentary  layers  laid  down  by  the 
prehistoric  Tethyan  Sea  buckled,  folded,  and  contorted.  The 
intensive  folding  and  uplifting  of  this  mountain  belt  was 
accompanied  by  strong  volcanic  activity  and  intrusions  of  igne- 
ous rock  material,  followed  by  extensive  faulting  during  the 
Quaternary  Period,  which  began  about  1.6.  million  B.C.  This 
folding  and  faulting  process  is  still  at  work,  as  the  Turkish  and 
Aegean  plates,  moving  south  and  southwest,  respectively,  con- 
tinue to  collide.  As  a  result,  Turkey  is  one  of  the  world's  more 
active  earthquake  and  volcano  regions, 

Earthquakes  range  from  barely  perceptible  tremors  to  major 
movements  measuring  five  or  higher  on  the  open-ended  Rich- 
ter  scale.  Earthquakes  measuring  more  than  six  can  cause  mas- 
sive damage  to  buildings  and,  especially  if  they  occur  on  winter 
nights,  numerous  deaths  and  injuries.  Turkey's  most  severe 
earthquake  in  the  twentieth  century  occurred  in  Erzincan  on 
the  night  of  December  28-29,  1939;  it  devastated  most  of  the 
city  and  caused  an  estimated  160,000  deaths.  Earthquakes  of 
moderate  intensity  often  continue  with  sporadic  aftershocks 
over  periods  of  several  days  or  even  weeks.  The  most 
earthquake-prone  part  of  Turkey  is  an  arc-shaped  region 
stretching  from  the  general  vicinity  of  Kocaeli  to  the  area  north 
of  Lake  Van  on  the  border  with  Armenia  and  Georgia  (see  fig. 
7). 

Turkey's  terrain  is  structurally  complex.  A  central  massif 
composed  of  uplifted  blocks  and  downfolded  troughs,  covered 
by  recent  deposits  and  giving  the  appearance  of  a  plateau  with 


77 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

rough  terrain,  is  wedged  between  two  folded  mountain  ranges 
that  converge  in  the  east.  True  lowland  is  confined  to  the 
Ergene  Plain  in  Thrace,  extending  along  rivers  that  discharge 
into  the  Aegean  Sea  or  the  Sea  of  Marmara,  and  to  a  few  nar- 
row coastal  strips  along  the  Black  Sea  and  Mediterranean  Sea 
coasts.  Nearly  85  percent  of  the  land  is  at  an  elevation  of  at 
least  450  meters;  the  median  altitude  of  the  country  is  1,128 
meters.  In  Asiatic  Turkey,  flat  or  gently  sloping  land  is  rare  and 
largely  confined  to  the  deltas  of  the  Kizihrmak  River,  the 
coastal  plains  of  Antalya  and  Adana,  and  the  valley  floors  of  the 
Gediz  River  and  the  Buyukmenderes  River,  and  some  interior 
high  plains  in  Anatolia,  mainly  around  Tuz  Golii  (Salt  Lake) 
and  Konya  Ovasi  (Konya  Basin).  Moderately  sloping  terrain  is 
limited  almost  entirely  outside  Thrace  to  the  hills  of  the  Ara- 
bian Platform  along  the  border  with  Syria. 

More  than  80  percent  of  the  land  surface  is  rough,  broken, 
and  mountainous,  and  therefore  is  of  limited  agricultural  value 
(see  Agriculture,  ch.  3).  The  terrain's  ruggedness  is  accentu- 
ated in  the  eastern  part  of  the  country,  where  the  two  moun- 
tain ranges  converge  into  a  lofty  region  with  a  median 
elevation  of  more  than  1,500  meters,  which  reaches  its  highest 
point  along  the  borders  with  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and  Iran. 
Turkey's  highest  peak,  Mount  Ararat  (Agri  Dagi) — about  5,166 
meters  high — is  situated  near  the  point  where  the  boundaries 
of  the  four  countries  meet. 

Landform  Regions 

Distinct  contrasts  between  the  interior  and  periphery  of  Tur- 
key are  manifested  in  its  landform  regions,  climate,  soils,  and 
vegetation.  The  periphery  is  divided  into  the  Black  Sea  region, 
the  Aegean  region,  and  the  Mediterranean  region.  The  inte- 
rior is  also  divided  into  three  regions:  the  Pontus  and  Taurus 
mountain  ranges,  the  Anatolian  Plateau,  and  the  eastern  high- 
lands. The  seventh  region  of  the  country  is  the  Arabian  Plat- 
form in  the  southeast,  adjacent  to  the  Syrian  border. 

Black  Sea  Region 

The  Black  Sea  region  has  a  steep,  rocky  coast  with  rivers  that 
cascade  through  the  gorges  of  the  coastal  ranges.  A  few  larger 
rivers,  those  cutting  back  through  the  Pontus  Mountains 
(Dogukaradeniz  Daglan),  have  tributaries  that  flow  in  broad, 
elevated  basins.  Access  inland  from  the  coast  is  limited  to  a  few 
narrow  valleys  because  mountain  ridges,  with  elevations  of 


78 


International  boundary 


(J)  National  capital 

•  Populated  place 

A  Spot  elevation   in  meters 

0  50        100  KILOMETERS 

1  11  'i  1  ■  1 

0  50  100  MILES 


1 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


1,525  to  1,800  meters  in  the  west  and  3,000  to  4,000  meters  in 
the  east,  form  an  almost  unbroken  wall  separating  the  coast 
from  the  interior.  The  higher  slopes  facing  northwest  tend  to 
be  densely  forested.  Because  of  these  natural  conditions,  the 
Black  Sea  coast  historically  has  been  isolated  from  Anatolia. 

Running  from  Zonguldak  in  the  west  to  Rize  in  the  east,  the 
narrow  coastal  strip  widens  at  several  places  into  fertile, 
intensely  cultivated  deltas.  The  Samsun  area,  close  to  the  mid- 
point, is  a  major  tobacco-growing  region;  east  of  it  are  numer- 
ous citrus  groves.  East  of  Samsun,  the  area  around  Trabzon  is 
world-renowned  for  the  production  of  hazelnuts,  and  farther 
east  the  Rize  region  has  numerous  tea  plantations.  All  cultiva- 
ble areas,  including  mountain  slopes  wherever  they  are  not  too 
steep,  are  sown  or  used  as  pasture.  The  mild,  damp  climate  of 
the  Black  Sea  coast  makes  commercial  farming  profitable.  The 
western  part  of  the  Black  Sea  region,  especially  the  Zonguldak 
area,  is  a  center  of  coal  mining  and  heavy  industry. 

Aegean  Region 

The  European  portion  of  the  Aegean  region  consists  mainly 
of  rolling  plateau  country  well  suited  to  agriculture.  It  receives 
about  520  millimeters  of  rainfall  annually.  Densely  populated, 
this  area  includes  the  cities  of  Istanbul  and  Edirne.  The 
Bosporus,  which  links  the  Sea  of  Marmara  and  the  Black  Sea,  is 
about  twenty-five  kilometers  long  and  averages  1.5  kilometers 
in  width  but  narrows  in  places  to  less  than  500  meters.  Both  its 
Asian  and  European  banks  rise  steeply  from  the  water  and 
form  a  succession  of  cliffs,  coves,  and  nearly  landlocked  bays. 
Most  of  the  shores  are  densely  wooded  and  are  marked  by 
numerous  small  towns  and  villages.  The  Dardanelles  Strait, 
which  links  the  Sea  of  Marmara  and  the  Aegean  Sea,  is  approx- 
imately forty  kilometers  long  and  increases  in  width  toward  the 
south.  Unlike  the  Bosporus,  the  Dardanelles  has  few  settle- 
ments along  its  shores. 

On  its  Asian  side,  the  Aegean  region  has  fertile  soils  and  a 
typically  Mediterranean  climate  with  mild,  wet  winters  and  hot, 
dry  summers.  The  broad,  cultivated  valley  lowlands  contain 
about  half  of  the  country's  richest  farmland.  Major  crops  are 
olives,  citrus,  nuts  (especially  almonds),  and  tobacco.  The  most 
important  valleys  are  the  Kocaeli  Valley,  the  Bursa  Ovasi  (Bursa 
Basin),  and  the  Plains  of  Troy.  The  valley  lowlands  are  densely 
populated,  particularly  around  Bursa  and  Izmir,  the  country's 
third  largest  city  and  a  major  manufacturing  center. 


81 


80 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Mediterranean  Region 

The  narrow  coastal  plains  of  the  Mediterranean  region,  sep- 
arated from  Anatolia  by  the  Taurus  Mountains,  which  reach 
elevations  of  2,000  to  2,750  meters,  are  cultivated  intensively. 
Fertile  soils  and  a  warm  climate  make  the  Mediterranean  coast 
ideal  for  growing  citrus  fruits,  grapes,  figs,  bananas,  various 
vegetables,  barley,  wheat,  and,  in  irrigated  areas,  rice  and  cot- 
ton. The  Cukur  Ova  in  the  east  is  a  plain  that  is  the  most  devel- 
oped agricultural  area  of  the  Mediterranean  region.  It  is  a 
significant  cotton-growing  center  and  also  supports  a  major 
cotton-based  textile  industry.  In  general,  summers  are  hot  and 
dry  in  the  Mediterranean  region.  The  weather  in  combination 
with  the  region's  numerous  sandy  beaches  has  encouraged  the 
development  of  a  tourist  industry. 

Toward  the  east,  the  extensive  plains  around  Adana,  Tur- 
key's fourth  largest  city,  consist  largely  of  reclaimed  flood  lands. 
In  general,  rivers  have  not  cut  valleys  to  the  sea  in  the  western 
part  of  the  region.  Historically,  movement  inland  from  the 
western  Mediterranean  coast  was  difficult.  East  of  Adana,  much 
of  the  coastal  plain  has  limestone  features  such  as  collapsed 
caverns  and  sinkholes.  Between  Adana  and  Antalya,  the  Taurus 
Mountains  rise  sharply  from  the  coast  to  high  elevations.  Other 
than  Adana,  Antalya,  and  Mersin,  the  Mediterranean  coast  has 
few  major  cities,  although  it  has  numerous  farming  villages. 

Ponhis  and  Taurus  Mountains 

The  Pontus  Mountains  (also  called  the  North  Anatolian 
Mountains)  in  the  north  are  an  interrupted  chain  of  folded 
highlands  that  generally  parallel  the  Black  Sea  coast.  In  the 
west,  the  mountains  tend  to  be  low,  with  elevations  rarely 
exceeding  1,500  meters,  but  they  rise  in  an  easterly  direction  to 
heights  greater  than  3,000  meters  south  of  Rize.  Lengthy, 
troughlike  valleys  and  basins  characterize  the  mountains.  Riv- 
ers flow  from  the  mountains  toward  the  Black  Sea.  The  south- 
ern slopes — facing  the  Anatolian  Plateau — are  mostly 
unwooded,  but  the  northern  slopes  contain  dense  growths  of 
both  deciduous  and  evergreen  trees. 

Paralleling  the  Mediterranean  coast,  the  Taurus  (Toros  Dag- 
lan)  is  Turkey's  second  chain  of  folded  mountains.  The  range 
rises  just  inland  from  the  coast  and  uends  generally  in  an  east- 
erly direction  until  it  reaches  the  Arabian  Platform,  where  it 
arcs  around  the  northern  side  of  the  platform.  The  Taurus 
Mountains  are  more  rugged  and  less  dissected  by  rivers  than 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  Pontus  Mountains  and  historically  have  served  as  a  barrier 
to  human  movement  inland  from  the  Mediterranean  coast 
except  where  there  are  mountain  passes  such  as  the  Cilician 
Gates  (Giilek  Bogazi),  northwest  of  Adana. 

Frequently  interspersed  throughout  the  folded  mountains, 
and  also  situated  on  the  Anatolian  Plateau,  are  well-defined 
basins,  which  the  Turks  call  ova.  Some  are  no  more  than  a  wid- 
ening of  a  stream  valley;  others,  such  as  the  Konya  Ovasi,  are 
large  basins  of  inland  drainage  or  are  the  result  of  limestone 
erosion.  Most  of  the  basins  take  their  names  from  cities  or 
towns  located  at  their  rims.  Where  a  lake  has  formed  within  the 
basin,  the  water  body  is  usually  saline  as  a  result  of  the  internal 
drainage — the  water  has  no  outlet  to  the  sea. 

Anatolian  Plateau 

Stretching  inland  from  the  Aegean  coastal  plain,  the  Anato- 
lian Plateau  occupies  the  area  between  the  two  zones  of  the 
folded  mountains,  extending  east  to  the  point  where  the  two 
ranges  converge.  The  plateau-like,  semiarid  highlands  of  Ana- 
tolia are  considered  the  heartland  of  the  country.  The  region 
varies  in  elevation  from  600  to  1,200  meters  from  west  to  east. 
The  two  largest  basins  on  the  plateau  are  the  Konya  Ovasi  and 
the  basin  occupied  by  the  large  salt  lake,  Tuz  Golu.  Both  basins 
are  characterized  by  inland  drainage.  Wooded  areas  are  con- 
fined to  the  northwest  and  northeast  of  the  plateau.  Rain-fed 
cultivation  is  widespread,  with  wheat  being  the  principal  crop. 
Irrigated  agriculture  is  restricted  to  the  areas  surrounding  riv- 
ers and  wherever  sufficient  underground  water  is  available. 
Important  irrigated  crops  include  barley,  corn,  cotton,  various 
fruits,  grapes,  opium  poppies,  sugar  beets,  roses,  and  tobacco. 
There  also  is  extensive  grazing  throughout  the  plateau. 

The  Anatolian  Plateau  receives  little  annual  rainfall.  For 
instance,  the  semiarid  center  of  the  plateau  receives  an  average 
yearly  precipitation  of  only  300  millimeters.  However,  actual 
rainfall  from  year  to  year  is  irregular  and  occasionally  may  be 
less  than  200  millimeters,  leading  to  severe  reductions  in  crop 
yields  for  both  rain-fed  and  irrigated  agriculture.  In  years  of 
low  rainfall,  stock  losses  also  can  be  high.  Overgrazing  has  con- 
tributed to  soil  erosion  on  the  plateau.  During  the  summers, 
frequent  dust  storms  blow  a  fine  yellow  powder  across  the  pla- 
teau. Locusts  occasionally  ravage  the  eastern  area  in  April  and 
May.  In  general,  the  plateau  experiences  extreme  heat,  with 


83 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

almost  no  rainfall  in  summer  and  cold  weather  with  heavy  snow 
in  winter. 

Eastern  Highlands 

Eastern  Anatolia,  where  the  Pontus  and  Taurus  mountain 
ranges  converge,  is  rugged  country  with  higher  elevations,  a 
more  severe  climate,  and  greater  precipitation  than  are  found 
on  the  Anatolian  Plateau.  The  region  is  known  as  the  Anti-Tau- 
rus, and  the  average  elevation  of  its  peaks  exceeds  3,000 
meters.  Mount  Ararat,  at  5,166  meters  the  highest  point  in  Tur- 
key, is  located  in  the  Anti-Taurus.  Many  of  the  Anti-Taurus 
peaks  apparently  are  recently  extinct  volcanoes,  to  judge  from 
extensive  lava  flows.  Turkey's  largest  lake,  Lake  Van,  is  situated 
in  the  mountains  at  an  elevation  of  1,546  meters.  The  headwa- 
ters of  three  major  rivers  arise  in  the  Anti-Taurus:  the  east-flow- 
ing Aras,  which  empties  into  the  Caspian  Sea;  the  south-flowing 
Euphrates;  and  the  south-flowing  Tigris,  which  eventually  joins 
the  Euphrates  in  Iraq  before  emptying  into  the  Persian  Gulf. 
Several  small  streams  that  empty  into  the  Black  Sea  or  land- 
locked Lake  Van  also  originate  in  these  mountains. 

Most  of  eastern  Anatolia  comprises  the  area  known  histori- 
cally as  Kurdistan.  In  addition  to  its  rugged  mountains,  the 
area  is  known  for  severe  winters  with  heavy  snowfalls.  The  few 
valleys  and  plains  in  these  mountains  tend  to  be  fertile  and  to 
support  diverse  agriculture.  The  main  basin  is  the  Mus  Valley, 
west  of  Lake  Van.  Narrow  valleys  also  lie  at  the  foot  of  the  lofty 
peaks  along  river  corridors. 

Arabian  Platform 

The  Arabian  Platform  is  in  southeast  Anatolia  south  of  the 
Anti-Taurus  Mountains.  It  is  a  region  of  rolling  hills  and  a 
broad  plateau  surface  that  extends  into  Syria.  Elevations 
decrease  gradually,  from  about  800  meters  in  the  north  to 
about  500  meters  in  the  south.  Traditionally,  wheat  and  barley 
were  the  main  crops  of  the  region,  but  the  inauguration  of 
major  new  irrigation  projects  in  the  1980s  has  led  to  greater 
agricultural  diversity  and  development. 

Climate 

Turkey's  diverse  regions  have  different  climates,  with  the 
weather  system  on  the  coasts  contrasting  with  that  prevailing  in 
the  interior.  The  Aegean  and  Mediterranean  coasts  have  cool, 
rainy  winters  and  hot,  moderately  dry  summers.  Annual  precip- 


84 


Land  formations  once  used  for  dwellings  in  central  Anatolia 

Farmer  in  eastern  Turkey 
Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


85 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

itation  in  those  areas  varies  from  580  to  1,300  millimeters, 
depending  on  location.  Generally,  rainfall  is  less  to  the  east. 
The  Black  Sea  coast  receives  the  greatest  amount  of  rainfall. 
The  eastern  part  of  that  coast  averages  1,400  millimeters  annu- 
ally and  is  the  only  region  of  Turkey  that  receives  rainfall 
throughout  the  year. 

Mountains  close  to  the  coast  prevent  Mediterranean  influ- 
ences from  extending  inland,  giving  the  interior  of  Turkey  a 
continental  climate  with  distinct  seasons.  The  Anatolian  Pla- 
teau is  much  more  subject  to  extremes  than  are  the  coastal 
areas.  Winters  on  the  plateau  are  especially  severe.  Tempera- 
tures of  -30°C  to  -40°C  can  occur  in  the  mountainous  areas  in 
the  east,  and  snow  may  lie  on  the  ground  120  days  of  the  year. 
In  the  west,  winter  temperatures  average  below  1°C.  Summers 
are  hot  and  dry,  with  temperatures  above  30°C.  Annual  precip- 
itation averages  about  400  millimeters,  with  actual  amounts 
determined  by  elevation.  The  driest  regions  are  the  Konya 
Ovasi  and  the  Malatya  Ovasi,  where  annual  rainfall  frequently 
is  less  than  300  millimeters.  May  is  generally  the  wettest  month 
and  July  and  August  the  driest. 

The  climate  of  the  Anti-Taurus  Mountain  region  of  eastern 
Turkey  can  be  inhospitable.  Summers  tend  to  be  hot  and 
extremely  dry.  Winters  are  bitterly  cold  with  frequent,  heavy 
snowfall.  Villages  can  be  isolated  for  several  days  during  winter 
storms.  Spring  and  autumn  are  generally  mild,  but  during  both 
seasons  sudden  hot  and  cold  spells  frequently  occur. 

Population 

Turkey's  population  at  the  end  of  1994  was  estimated  at  61.2 
million.  This  number  represented  an  8.4  percent  increase  over 
the  56.5  million  enumerated  in  the  twelfth  quinquennial  cen- 
sus, conducted  in  October  1990.  The  State  Institute  of  Statistics 
(SIS)  has  estimated  that  since  1990  the  country's  population 
has  been  growing  at  an  average  annual  rate  of  2.1  percent,  a 
decrease  from  the  2.5  percent  average  annual  rate  recorded 
during  the  1980s.  Turkey's  population  in  1985  was  about  50.7 
million,  and  in  1980  about  44.7  million.  In  the  fourteen  years 
from  1980  to  1994,  the  population  increased  nearly  37  percent. 

Turkey's  first  census  of  the  republican  era  was  taken  in  1927 
and  counted  a  total  population  of  about  13.6  million.  Less  than 
seventy  years  later,  the  country's  population  had  more  than 
quadrupled.  Between  1927  and  1945,  growth  was  slow;  in  cer- 
tain years  during  the  1930s,  the  population  actually  declined. 


86 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Significant  growth  occurred  between  1945  and  1980,  when  the 
population  increased  almost  2.5  times.  Although  the  rate  of 
growth  has  been  slowing  gradually  since  1980,  Turkey's  average 
annual  population  increase  is  relatively  high  in  comparison  to 
that  of  European  countries.  In  fact,  member  states  of  the  Euro- 
pean Union  (EU — see  Glossary)  have  cited  this  high  popula- 
tion growth  rate  as  justification  for  delaying  a  decision  on 
Turkey's  long-pending  application  to  join  the  EU. 

The  1990  census  is  the  most  recent  one  for  which  detailed 
statistical  data  are  available.  That  census  revealed  the  relative 
youth  of  the  population,  with  20  percent  being  ten  years  of  age 
or  under  (see  table  4,  Appendix  A).  About  50.5  percent  of  the 
population  was  male,  and  49.5  percent  female.  The  average  life 
expectancy  for  females  of  seventy-two  years  was  greater  than 
the  corresponding  figure  for  men  of  sixty-eight  years.  The 
birth  rate  was  twenty-eight  per  1,000  population;  the  death  rate 
was  six  per  1,000. 

Population  Density,  Distribution,  and  Settlement 

Population  density  has  increased  along  with  the  relatively 
rapid  growth  rate.  For  example,  although  Turkey  had  an  aver- 
age of  only  twenty-seven  inhabitants  per  square  kilometer  in 
1950,  this  figure  had  nearly  tripled,  to  72.5  persons  people  per 
square  kilometer,  by  1990.  Population  density  was  estimated  at 
78.5  people  per  square  kilometer  at  the  end  of  1994.  According 
to  the  1990  census,  the  most  densely  populated  provinces 
included  Istanbul,  with  1,330  persons  per  square  kilometer; 
Kocaeli,  with  260;  and  Izmir,  with  220.  The  most  lightly  popu- 
lated provinces  included  Tunceli  and  Karaman,  with  seventeen 
and  twenty-four  persons,  respectively,  per  square  kilometer. 
Turkey's  overall  population  density  was  less  than  one-half  the 
densities  in  major  EU  countries  such  as  Britain,  Germany,  and 
Italy. 

Although  overall  population  density  is  low,  some  regions  of 
Turkey,  especially  Thrace  and  the  Aegean  and  Black  Sea  coasts, 
are  densely  populated.  The  uneven  population  distribution  is 
most  obvious  in  the  coastal  area  stretching  from  Zonguldak 
westward  to  Istanbul,  then  around  the  Sea  of  Marmara  and 
south  along  the  Aegean  coast  to  Izmir.  Although  this  area 
includes  less  than  25  percent  of  Turkey's  total  land,  more  than 
45  percent  of  the  total  population  lived  there  in  1990.  In  con- 
trast, the  Anatolian  Plateau  and  mountainous  east  account  for 
62  percent  of  the  total  land,  but  only  40  percent  of  the  popula- 


87 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

tion  resided  there  in  1990.  The  remaining  15  percent  of  the 
population  lived  along  the  southern  Mediterranean  coast, 
which  makes  up  13  percent  of  Turkey's  territory. 

In  1990  about  50  percent  of  the  population  was  classified  as 
rural.  This  figure  represented  a  decline  of  more  than  30  per- 
cent since  1950,  when  the  rural  population  accounted  for  82 
percent  of  the  country's  total.  The  rural  population  lived  in 
more  than  36,000  villages  in  1990,  most  of  which  had  fewer 
than  1,000  inhabitants  (see  Village  Life,  this  ch.).  For  adminis- 
trative purposes,  a  village  can  be  a  small  settlement  or  a  num- 
ber of  scattered  rural  households,  jointly  administered  by  a 
village  headman  ( muhtar) . 

By  1995  more  than  65  percent  of  Turkey's  population  lived 
in  cities,  defined  as  built-up  areas  with  10,000  or  more  inhabit- 
ants. The  urban  population  has  been  growing  at  a  rapid  rate 
since  1950,  when  it  accounted  for  only  18  percent  of  Turkey's 
total.  The  main  factor  in  the  growth  of  the  cities  has  been  the 
steady  migration  of  villagers  to  urban  areas,  a  process  that  was 
continuing  in  the  1990s.  The  trend  toward  urbanization  was 
revealed  in  the  1990  census,  which  enumerated  more  than  17.6 
million  people — more  than  30  percent  of  the  total  popula- 
tion— as  living  in  nineteen  cities  with  populations  then  of  more 
than  200,000.  The  largest  was  Istanbul,  with  a  population  then 
of  about  6.6  million,  approximately  12  percent  of  Turkey's 
overall  population.  Two  other  cities  also  had  populations  in 
excess  of  1  million:  Ankara,  the  capital  (about  2.6  million),  and 
Izmir,  a  major  port  and  industrial  center  on  the  Aegean  Sea 
(about  1.8  million).  Turkey's  fourth  and  fifth  largest  cities, 
Adana  (about  916,000  in  1990)  and  Bursa  (about  835,000), 
have  been  growing  at  rates  in  excess  of  3  percent  per  year,  and 
each  is  expected  to  have  more  than  1  million  inhabitants 
before  2000.  Gaziantep  in  the  southeast  and  Konya  on  the  Ana- 
tolian Plateau  were  the  only  other  cities  with  populations  in 
excess  of  500,000  in  1990.  The  ten  largest  cities  also  included 
Mersin  (about  422,000),  Kayseri  (about  421,000),  and  Eskisehir 
(about  413,000). 

Migration 

During  the  decade  1915  to  1925,  the  country  experienced 
large  population  transfers — a  substantial  movement  outward  of 
minority  groups  and  an  influx  of  refugees  and  immigrants.  The 
first  major  population  shift  began  in  1915,  when  the  Ottoman 
government,  for  a  variety  of  complex  and  in  some  instances 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


contradictory  reasons,  decided  to  deport  an  estimated  2  mil- 
lion Armenians  from  their  historical  homeland  in  eastern  Ana- 
tolia (see  Armenians,  this  ch.;  World  War  I,  ch.  1).  The 
movement  of  Greeks  out  of  Turkey,  which  began  during  the 
1912-13  Balkan  Wars,  climaxed  in  the  1920s  with  an  interna- 
tionally sanctioned  exchange  of  population  between  Turkey 
and  the  Balkan  states,  primarily.  In  accordance  with  the  1923 
Treaty  of  Lausanne,  Turkey  accepted  approximately  500,000 
Muslims,  who  were  forced  to  leave  their  homes  in  the  Balkans, 
in  exchange  for  nearly  2  million  Greeks,  who  were  forced  to 
leave  Anatolia.  By  special  arrangement,  Greeks  living  in  Istan- 
bul and  Turks  living  in  the  Greek  part  of  Thrace  were 
exempted  from  the  compulsory  exchanges. 

After  1925  Turkey  continued  to  accept  Muslims  speaking 
Turkic  languages  as  immigrants  and  did  not  discourage  the 
emigration  of  members  of  non-Turkic  minorities.  More  than 
90  percent  of  all  immigrants  arrived  from  the  Balkan  countries. 
Between  1935  and  1940,  for  example,  approximately  124,000 
Bulgarians  and  Romanians  of  Turkish  origin  immigrated  to 
Turkey,  and  between  1954  and  1956  about  35,000  Muslim  Slavs 
immigrated  from  Yugoslavia.  In  the  fifty-five-year  period  end- 
ing in  1980,  Turkey  admitted  approximately  1.3  million  immi- 
grants; 36  percent  came  from  Bulgaria,  30  percent  from 
Greece,  22.1  percent  from  Yugoslavia,  and  8.9  percent  from 
Romania.  These  Balkan  immigrants,  as  well  as  smaller  numbers 
of  Turkic  immigrants  from  Cyprus  and  the  Soviet  Union,  were 
granted  full  citizenship  upon  their  arrival  in  Turkey.  The  immi- 
grants were  settled  primarily  in  the  Marmara  and  Aegean 
regions  (78  percent)  and  in  central  Anatolia  (11.7  percent). 

The  most  recent  immigration  influx  was  that  of  Bulgarian 
Turks  and  Bosnian  Muslims.  In  1989  an  estimated  320,000  Bul- 
garian Turks  fled  to  Turkey  to  escape  a  campaign  of  forced 
assimilation.  Following  the  collapse  of  Bulgaria's  communist 
government  that  same  year,  the  number  of  Bulgarian  Turks 
seeking  refuge  in  Turkey  declined  to  under  1,000  per  month. 
In  fact,  the  number  of  Bulgarian  Turks  who  voluntarily  repatri- 
ated— 125,000 — exceeded  new  arrivals.  By  March  1994,  a  total 
of  245,000  Bulgarian  Turks  had  been  granted  Turkish  citizen- 
ship. However,  Turkey  no  longer  regards  Bulgarian  Turks  as 
refugees.  Beginning  in  1994,  new  entrants  to  Turkey  have  been 
detained  and  deported.  As  of  December  31,  1994,  an  estimated 
20,000  Bosnians  were  living  in  Turkey,  mostly  in  the  Istanbul 


89 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

area.  About  2,600  were  living  in  camps;  the  rest  were  dispersed 
in  private  residences. 

In  1994  the  government  claimed  that  as  many  as  2  million 
Iranians  were  living  in  Turkey,  a  figure  that  most  international 
organizations  consider  to  be  grossly  exaggerated.  Turkey  is  one 
of  the  few  countries  that  Iranians  may  enter  without  first 
obtaining  a  visa;  authorities  believe  that  the  relative  ease  of 
travel  from  Iran  to  Turkey  encourages  many  Iranians  to  visit 
Turkey  as  tourists,  or  to  use  Turkey  as  a  way  station  to  obtain 
visas  for  the  countries  of  Europe  and  North  America.  Conse- 
quently, as  many  as  2  million  Iranians  actually  may  transit  Tur- 
key— including  multiple  reentries  for  many  individuals — in  a 
given  year.  Specialized  agencies  of  the  European  Union  and 
the  United  Nations  that  deal  with  issues  of  migrants  and  refu- 
gees believe  a  more  realistic  figure  of  the  number  of  Iranians 
who  live  in  Turkey,  and  do  not  have  a  residence  in  Iran  or  else- 
where, is  closer  to  50,000. 

In  the  1960s,  working-age  Turks,  primarily  men,  began 
migrating  to  Western  Europe  to  find  employment  as  guest 
workers.  Many  of  these  Turkish  workers  eventually  brought 
their  families  to  Europe.  An  estimated  2  million  Turkish  work- 
ers and  their  dependents  resided  in  Western  Europe  in  the 
early  1980s,  before  the  onset  of  an  economic  recession  that  led 
to  severe  job  losses.  The  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West 
Germany)  initiated  the  program  of  accepting  Turkish  guest 
workers.  In  the  1990s,  however,  Germany  adopted  a  policy  of 
economic  incentives  to  encourage  the  voluntary  repatriation  of 
Turkish  workers.  At  the  end  of  1994,  an  estimated  1.1  million 
Turks  continued  to  reside  in  Western  Europe  as  semiperma- 
nent aliens.  About  two-thirds  of  these  Turkish  migrants  lived  in 
Germany,  and  another  10  percent  in  France.  Other  European 
countries  with  sizable  Turkish  communities  included  Austria, 
Belgium,  the  Netherlands,  Sweden,  and  Switzerland.  In  addi- 
tion, at  least  150,000  Turks  were  working  in  Saudi  Arabia  and 
other  Arab  oil-exporting  countries  of  the  Persian  Gulf. 

Government  Population  Policies 

For  almost  forty  years  after  the  establishment  of  the  republic 
in  1923,  the  government  of  Turkey  encouraged  population 
growth.  Use  of  contraceptives  and  distribution  of  information 
about  them  were  prohibited  by  law,  and  the  state  provided 
financial  incentives  to  encourage  large  families.  During  the 
1950s,  however,  members  of  the  political  elite  gradually 


90 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


became  concerned  that  the  country's  relatively  high  popula- 
tion growth  rate  of  nearly  3  percent  was  hurting  economic 
development.  Following  the  military  coup  of  May  1960,  popu- 
lation planning  became  a  major  government  objective.  A  1965 
family  planning  law  provided  for  the  establishment  of  the  Fam- 
ily Planning  Division  within  the  Ministry  of  Health  and  Social 
Assistance  to  extend  birth  control  information  and  services  to 
as  many  couples  as  possible.  A  1967  law  decriminalized  abor- 
tion and  authorized  use  of  this  procedure  for  a  broad  range  of 
medical  causes.  Access  to  abortion  was  liberalized  further  by 
legislation  in  1983  stipulating  that  a  pregnancy  could  be  termi- 
nated lawfully  upon  request  in  a  public  hospital  up  to  ten 
weeks  after  conception.  A  married  woman  seeking  an  abortion 
was  required  to  obtain  her  husband's  permission  or  submit  a 
formal  statement  of  assumption  of  all  responsibility  prior  to  the 
procedure. 

Family  planning  services  have  expanded  considerably  since 
the  mid-1960s.  A  primary  focus  has  been  on  educating  couples 
about  the  material  and  health  benefits  of  both  limiting  and 
spacing  births.  The  Ministry  of  Health  adopted  the  1978  Inter- 
national Congress  on  Primary  Health  Care  recommendations 
that  family  planning  be  combined  with  maternal  and  child 
health  services  and  undertaken  in  cooperation  with  state  hospi- 
tals, maternity  hospitals,  health  centers,  and  clinics  in  both 
urban  and  rural  areas.  In  addition  to  its  support  of  public  edu- 
cation about  family  planning,  the  ministry  has  solicited  the 
cooperation  of  volunteer  associations  and  international  organi- 
zations to  promote  its  programs.  But  despite  concerted  govern- 
ment efforts  to  encourage  smaller  families,  Turkey's  birth  rate 
between  1965  and  1994  declined  at  a  relatively  slow  pace,  fall- 
ing only  from  thirty-three  to  twenty-eight  births  per  1,000  pop- 
ulation. 

Concern  about  the  continuing  high  birth  rate  prompted  the 
Ministry  of  Health  in  1986  to  launch  a  new  population  conuol 
campaign  that  concentrated  on  rural  areas,  where  the  fertility 
rate  was  highest.  The  campaign  included  the  construction  of 
new  health  clinics,  the  expansion  of  centers  training  medical 
professionals  in  family  planning  counseling,  and  the  enlist- 
ment of  private-sector  cooperation  in  the  distribution  of  birth 
control  information  and  materials  in  factories.  Private  busi- 
nesses established  the  Turkish  Family  Health  and  Planning 
Foundation,  which  has  supplemented  the  state's  population 
control  efforts  since  1986  through  its  financial  support  for  spe- 


91 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

cial  training  programs  and  nationwide  television  advertise- 
ments. 

Religion  has  not  been  an  impediment  to  birth  control.  Tur- 
key's Sunni  Muslim  religious  leaders,  who  have  addressed  the 
subject  of  birth  control  in  religious  publications,  have  stated 
that  Islam  does  not  prohibit  married  couples  from  trying  to 
space  births  or  limit  the  size  of  their  families.  The  use  of  spe- 
cific birth  control  devices  generally  has  not  been  addressed  in 
religious  literature.  However,  during  the  early  1990s  there 
appeared  to  be  a  consensus  among  religious  leaders  that  the 
resort  to  sterilization  or  abortion  as  a  means  of  birth  control 
was  not  permissible  under  Islam. 

Language  Reform:  From  Ottoman  to  Turkish 

Within  the  Ottoman  Empire,  the  Turks  had  constituted 
merely  one  of  many  linguistic  and  ethnic  groups.  In  fact,  for 
the  ruling  elite,  the  word  Turk  connoted  crudeness  and  boor- 
ishness.  Members  of  the  civil,  military,  and  religious  elites  con- 
versed and  conducted  their  business  in  Ottoman  Turkish, 
which  was  a  mixture  of  Arabic,  Persian,  and  Turkish.  Arabic 
remained  the  primary  language  of  religion  and  religious  law 
(see  Religious  Life,  this  ch.).  Persian  was  the  language  of  art, 
refined  literature,  and  diplomacy.  At  an  official  level,  Ottoman 
Turkish  usually  was  used  only  for  matters  pertaining  to  the 
administration  of  the  empire.  Ottoman  Turkish  not  only  bor- 
rowed vocabulary  from  Arabic  and  Persian  but  also  lifted  entire 
expressions  and  syntactic  structures  out  of  these  languages  and 
incorporated  them  into  the  Ottoman  idiom. 

The  multiple  linguistic  influences  on  Ottoman  Turkish 
caused  difficulties  in  spelling  and  writing.  The  constituent 
parts — Turkish,  Persian,  and  Arabic — belong  to  three  different 
language  families — Ural-Altaic,  Indo-European,  and  Semitic, 
respectively — and  the  writing  system  fits  only  Semitic.  Phono- 
logical, grammatical,  and  etymological  principles  are  quite  dif- 
ferent among  the  three  families.  For  these  reasons,  modernist 
intellectuals  during  the  nineteenth  century  began  to  call  for  a 
reform  of  the  language.  They  advocated  a  language  that  would 
be  easier  to  read  and  write  and  contain  more  purely  Turkish 
words.  The  principle  of  Turkish  language  reform  thus  was  tied 
intimately  to  the  reforms  of  the  1839-78  period  (see  External 
Threats  and  Internal  Transformations,  ch.  1).  Later  in  the 
nineteenth  century,  language  reform  became  a  political  issue. 
Turkish  nationalists  sought  a  language  that  would  unite  rather 


92 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


than  divide  the  people.  In  the  writings  of  Ziya  Gokalp  (d. 
1924),  Turkish  nationalism  was  presented  as  the  force  uniting 
all  those  who  were  Turks  by  language  and  ethnic  background. 

With  the  establishment  of  the  republic,  Atatiirk  made  lan- 
guage reform  an  important  part  of  the  nationalist  program. 
The  goal  was  to  produce  a  language  that  was  more  Turkish  and 
less  Arabic,  Persian,  and  Islamic;  one  that  was  more  modern, 
practical,  and  precise,  and  less  difficult  to  learn.  The  republi- 
can language  reform  called  for  a  drastic  alteration  of  both  the 
spoken  and  the  written  language.  This  process  was  to  be 
accomplished  through  two  basic  strategies — adoption  of  a  new 
alphabet  and  purification  of  the  vocabulary. 

The  language  revolution  (dil  devrimi)  officially  began  in  May 
1928,  when  numbers  written  in  Arabic  were  replaced  with  their 
Western  equivalents.  In  November  the  Grand  National  Assem- 
bly approved  a  new  Latin  alphabet  that  had  been  devised  by  a 
committee  of  scholars.  Many  members  of  the  assembly  favored 
gradually  introducing  the  new  letters  over  a  period  lasting  up 
to  five  years.  Atatiirk,  however,  insisted  that  the  transition  last 
only  a  few  months,  and  his  opinion  prevailed.  With  chalk  and  a 
portable  blackboard,  he  traveled  throughout  the  country  giv- 
ing writing  lessons  in  the  new  Latin  alphabet  in  schools,  village 
squares,  and  other  public  places  to  a  people  whose  illiteracy 
rate  was  suddenly  100  percent.  On  January  1,  1929,  it  became 
unlawful  to  use  the  Arabic  alphabet  to  write  Turkish. 

The  new  Latin  alphabet  represented  the  Turkish  vowels  and 
consonants  more  clearly  than  had  the  Arabic  alphabet.  One 
symbol  was  used  for  each  sound  of  standard  Turkish,  which  was 
identified  as  the  educated  speech  of  Istanbul.  By  replacing  the 
Arabic  with  the  Latin  alphabet,  Turkey  turned  consciously 
toward  the  West  and  effectively  severed  a  major  link  with  a  part 
of  its  Islamic  heritage.  By  providing  the  new  generation  no 
need  or  opportunity  to  learn  Arabic  letters,  the  alphabet 
reform  cut  it  off  from  Turkey's  Ottoman  past,  culture,  and 
value  system,  as  well  as  from  religion  (see  Ataturk's  Reforms, 
ch.  1). 

Atatiirk  and  his  language  reformers  viewed  non-Turkish 
words  as  symbols  of  the  past.  They  encouraged  a  national  cam- 
paign, supported  by  government  policies,  to  purify  the  lan- 
guage. Lexicographers  began  to  drop  Arabic  and  Persian 
words  from  dictionaries,  substituting  for  them  resurrected 
archaic  terms  or  words  from  Turkish  dialects  or  new  words 
coined  from  old  stems  and  roots.  The  Turkish  Language  Soci- 


93 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


ety  (Turk  Dil  Kurumu),  founded  in  1932,  supervised  the  col- 
lection and  dissemination  of  Turkish  folk  vocabulary  and  folk 
phrases  to  be  used  in  place  of  foreign  words.  The  citizenry  at 
large  was  invited  to  suggest  alternatives  to  words  and  expres- 
sions of  non-Turkish  origin,  and  many  responded.  In  1934  lists 
of  new  Turkish  words  began  to  be  published,  and  in  1935  they 
began  to  appear  in  newspapers. 

Enthusiasm  for  language  reform  reached  its  height  in  the 
mid-1930s.  Some  of  the  suggested  reforms  were  so  extreme  as 
to  endanger  the  comprehension  of  the  language.  Although 
purists  and  zealots  favored  the  complete  banishment  of  all 
words  of  non-Turkish  origin,  many  officials  realized  that  some 
of  the  suggested  reforms  verged  on  the  ridiculous.  Ataturk 
resolved  the  problem  with  an  ingenious  political  invention 
that,  although  embarrassing  to  language  experts,  appealed  to 
the  nationalists.  He  suggested  the  historically  inaccurate  but 
politically  efficacious  Sun-Language  Theory,  which  asserted 
that  Turkish  was  the  "mother  of  all  languages,"  and  that  there- 
fore all  foreign  words  originally  were  Turkish.  Thus,  if  a  suit- 
able Turkish  equivalent  for  a  foreign  word  could  not  be  found, 
the  loanword  could  be  retained  without  violating  the  "purity" 
of  the  Turkish  language. 

By  the  late  1940s,  considerable  opposition  to  the  purifica- 
tion movement  had  emerged.  Teachers,  writers,  poets,  journa- 
lists, editors,  and  others  began  to  complain  publicly  about  the 
instability  and  arbitrariness  of  the  officially  sanctioned  vocabu- 
lary. In  1950  the  Turkish  Language  Society  lost  its  semi-official 
status.  Eventually,  some  Arabic  and  Persian  loanwords  began  to 
reappear  in  government  publications. 

The  language  reform's  long-term  effects  have  been  mixed. 
The  phonetically  designed  alphabet  based  on  the  Latin  script 
facilitated  the  quick  acquisition  of  literacy.  In  addition,  the 
developers  of  modern  Turkish  consciously  incorporated  scien- 
tific and  technological  terms.  By  making  possible  a  uniform 
mass  language  that  soon  acquired  its  own  literature,  the  reform 
also  helped  to  lessen  the  linguistic  gap  between  the  classes,  a 
legacy  of  Ottoman  society.  Although  the  newly  created  works 
lacked  some  of  the  rich  connotations  of  the  older  lexicon, 
modern  Turkish  developed  as  a  fertile  literary  language  as 
prose  writers  and  poets  created  powerful  works  in  this  new 
idiom,  especially  after  1950.  The  cost  of  language  reform,  how- 
ever, has  been  a  drastic  and  permanent  estrangement  from  the 
literary  and  linguistic  heritage  of  the  Ottomans.  Although 


94 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


some  prerepublican  writings  have  been  transliterated  into  the 
new  alphabet,  the  vocabulary  and  syntax  are  barely  under- 
standable to  a  speaker  of  modern  Turkish. 

Language  and  language  reform  continue  to  be  political 
issues  in  Turkey.  Each  decade  since  Ataturk's  death  has  been 
characterized  by  its  own  particular  stance  vis-a-vis  language 
reform:  whether  to  support  a  more  traditional  lexicon  or  a 
modern,  Turkified  one  abounding  in  Western  loanwords  and 
indigenous  coinages.  Language  reform  and  modern  usage 
have  pushed  forward  during  periods  of  liberal  governments 
and  been  deemphasized  under  conservative  governments  such 
as  those  of  the  1980s.  Meanwhile,  religious  publications  have 
not  been  as  affected  by  language  reforms  as  secular  literature. 
Religious  publications  have  continued  to  use  an  idiom  that  is 
heavily  Arabic  or  Persian  in  vocabulary  and  Persian  in  syntax. 
The  emergence  of  a  popular  religious-oriented  political  move- 
ment in  the  1990s  has  resulted  in  the  reintroduction  of  many 
Islamic  terms  into  spoken  Turkish. 

Linguistic  and  Ethnic  Groups 

Since  the  founding  of  the  Republic  of  Turkey,  the  govern- 
ment has  sought  to  diminish  the  significance  of  ethnic,  linguis- 
tic, and  religious  distinctions.  For  instance,  the  1965  census  was 
the  last  one  to  list  linguistic  minorities.  The  country's  largest 
minority,  the  Kurds,  has  posed  the  most  serious  and  most  per- 
sistent challenge  to  the  official  image  of  a  homogeneous  soci- 
ety. During  the  1930s  and  1940s,  the  government  had  disguised 
the  presence  of  the  Kurds  statistically  by  categorizing  them  as 
"Mountain  Turks."  With  official  encouragement,  some  scholars 
even  suggested  that  Kurdish,  an  Indo-European  language 
closely  related  to  Persian,  was  a  dialect  of  Turkish.  By  the  1980s, 
the  Mountain  Turks'  label  had  been  dropped  in  favor  of  a  new 
euphemism  for  Kurds:  "Eastern  Turks"  (dogulu).  Officials  of 
the  SIS  were  prosecuted  after  preparing  guidelines  for  the 
1985  census  that  instructed  enumerators  to  list  Kurdish,  when 
appropriate,  as  a  language  spoken  in  addition  to  Turkish.  The 
same  official  and  popular  confusion  exists  in  the  application  of 
the  term  Laz,  which  sometimes  is  used  erroneously  to  refer  to 
the  inhabitants  of  the  eastern  end  of  Turkey's  Black  Sea  coastal 
region.  In  actuality,  the  Laz  constitute  a  small  ethnic  group 
(26,007  according  to  the  1965  census),  speaking  Lazi,  a  Cauca- 
sian language  that  is  neither  Indo-European  nor  Altaic. 


95 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

The  1982  constitution  includes  a  seemingly  contradictory 
policy  on  the  use  of  non-Turkish  languages.  Whereas  one  arti- 
cle prohibits  discrimination  on  the  basis  of  language,  other 
articles  ban  the  public  use  of  languages  "prohibited  by  law." 
Although  legislation  forbidding  the  use  of  specific  languages 
has  never  been  enacted,  many  Kurdish  citizens  were  arrested 
prior  to  1991  on  charges  relating  to  the  public  use  of  Kurdish. 
Although  speaking  or  reading  Kurdish  no  longer  is  cause  for 
arrest,  at  an  official  level  there  remains  an  entrenched  bias 
against  the  use  of  Kurdish.  At  the  end  of  1994,  for  example, 
imprisoned  Kurds  still  were  required  to  communicate  with 
their  lawyers  and  visiting  family  members  in  Turkish,  even  if 
they  did  not  speak  or  understand  that  language. 

In  a  holdover  from  the  Ottoman  system  of  millets  (see  Glos- 
sary), Turks  traditionally  have  tended  to  consider  all  Sunni 
Muslims  as  Turks  and  to  regard  non-Sunni  speakers  of  Turkish 
as  non-Turks.  The  revival  of  popular  interest  in  religion  since 
the  early  1980s  has  reinvigorated  popular  prejudices  against 
religious  minorities,  especially  the  adherents  of  the  Shia  Mus- 
lim sect,  the  Alevi,  most  of  whom  are  ethnic  Kurds  or  Arabs. 
Also,  since  1984  the  extensive  migration  of  Kurds  from  the  pre- 
dominantly Kurdish  and  rural  provinces  of  the  southeast  to  the 
cities  of  western  Turkey  has  resulted  at  the  popular  level  in  the 
emergence  of  a  relatively  strong,  urban-based  Kurdish  ethnic 
consciousness  and  popular  resentment  of  the  Kurds'  presence 
among  ethnic  Turks. 

Turks 

People  identified  as  ethnic  Turks  comprise  80  to  88  percent 
of  Turkey's  population.  The  Turks  include  a  number  of 
regional  groups  who  differ  from  one  another  in  dialect,  dress, 
customs,  and  outlook.  In  most  cases,  these  differences  reflect 
variations  in  historical  and  environmental  circumstances.  In 
general,  regional  differences  are  beginning  to  decrease  while 
differences  arising  from  urbanization  and  social  class  stratifica- 
tion are  assuming  greater  importance.  The  three  most  impor- 
tant Turkish  groups  are  the  Anatolian  Turks,  the  Rumelian 
Turks  (primarily  immigrants  from  former  Ottoman  territories 
in  the  Balkans  and  their  descendants),  and  the  Central  Asian 
Turks  (Turkic-speaking  immigrants  from  the  Caucasus  region, 
southern  Russia,  and  Central  Asia  and  their  descendants). 

The  Anatolian  Turks  historically  lived  on  the  central  Anato- 
lian Plateau  in  isolated  villages  and  small  towns.  Following  the 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


implementation  of  the  Ottoman  Land  Code  in  the  late  1860s, 
rural  Anatolian  Turks  were  likely  to  own  their  own  land,  culti- 
vating wheat  and  other  cereal  grains  in  addition  to  herding 
sheep  and  goats.  During  the  early  republican  period,  the  Ana- 
tolian Turks'  reputation  for  physical  toughness  and  obstinate 
patience  was  applied  to  all  Turks,  and  the  Anatolians'  culture, 
albeit  as  interpreted  by  the  urban  elite,  became  part  of  the 
foundation  of  Turkish  nationalism.  The  Turks  who  lived  in  the 
coastal  stretches  along  the  Black,  Aegean,  and  Mediterranean 
seas  also  were  considered  Anatolian  Turks,  although  the  more 
diverse  and  agreeable  climate  of  the  coastal  areas  encouraged 
the  evolution  of  cultural  patterns  different  from  those  predom- 
inating on  the  interior  plateau.  However,  extensive  industrial- 
ization, urbanization,  and  village-to-city  migration  since  1960 
have  tended  to  minimize  regional  differences,  creating  instead 
new  class  and  occupational  distinctions.  Despite  the  social  and 
economic  changes,  transhumance  has  remained  an  efficient 
means  of  raising  livestock  on  the  Anatolian  Plateau,  and  as 
many  as  1  million  Turks  were  seminomadic  herders  of  sheep 
and  goats  in  the  early  1990s.  Included  in  this  population  were 
an  estimated  600,000  Yiiruks,  Turks  of  Asiatic  origin,  whom  the 
government  has  not  officially  recognized  as  a  separate  group. 

The  Rumelian  Turks  are  descended  from  Turks  who  settled 
in  the  Balkans  when,  from  the  fifteenth  to  the  nineteenth  cen- 
turies, that  region  of  southern  Europe  was  part  of  the  Ottoman 
Empire.  They  were  stranded  when  imperial  territories  began 
acquiring  national  independence  in  the  nineteenth  century 
(see  Migration,  this  ch.).  Most  of  the  Rumelian  Turks  resettled 
in  Turkey  between  1878  and  1924.  In  rural  areas,  Rumelian 
Turks  tended  to  become  farmers  or  artisans  in  the  coastal  vil- 
lages evacuated  by  Greeks  during  the  1920s  population 
exchanges.  Rumelian  Turks  also  settled  in  urban  centers,  espe- 
cially Edirne,  Tekirdag,  Kirklareli,  Nigde,  Bilecik,  and  Bursa. 

The  Central  Asian  Turks  include  Crimean  Tartars  and 
Turkomans.  They  live  in  scattered  communities  in  various  parts 
of  the  country;  for  example,  there  are  several  Crimean  Tartar 
villages  in  the  vicinity  of  Eskisehir.  In  1945  an  estimated  10,000 
people  spoke  Tartar  as  their  first  language;  since  then  several 
thousand  additional  Crimean  Tartars  have  resettled  in  Turkey. 
The  Turkomans,  who  speak  a  Turkic  dialect  distinct  from  Ana- 
tolian Turkish,  have  lived  in  eastern  Turkey  for  several  centu- 
ries. Historically,  Turkomans  were  organized  by  tribe;  tribal 
affiliations  still  retained  importance  for  some  Turkomans  in 


97 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

1995.  Since  the  establishment  of  the  republic,  no  reliable  esti- 
mate of  the  number  of  Turkomans  has  been  published.  Tradi- 
tionally, Turkomans  have  been  Shia  Muslims;  scholars  believe 
that  most  still  adhere  to  Shia  Islam. 

Kurds 

Turkey's  largest  non-Turkish  ethnic  group,  the  Kurds,  are 
concentrated  in  eleven  provinces  of  the  southeast,  the  same 
area  that  their  ancestors  inhabited  when  Xenophon  men- 
tioned the  Kurds  in  the  fifth  century  B.C.  There  also  are  iso- 
lated Kurdish  villages  in  other  parts  of  Turkey.  Kurds  have  been 
migrating  to  Istanbul  for  centuries,  and  since  1960  they  have 
migrated  to  almost  all  other  urban  centers  as  well.  There  are 
Kurdish  neighborhoods,  for  example,  in  many  of  the  gecekondus 
(see  Glossary)  or  shantytowns,  which  have  grown  up  around 
large  cities  in  western  Turkey.  About  half  of  all  Kurds  world- 
wide live  in  Turkey.  Most  of  the  rest  live  in  adjacent  regions  of 
Iran,  Iraq,  and  Syria.  Turkey's  censuses  do  not  list  Kurds  as  a 
separate  ethnic  group.  Consequently,  there  are  no  reliable  data 
on  their  total  numbers.  In  1995  estimates  of  the  number  of 
Kurds  in  Turkey  ranged  from  6  million  to  12  million. 

Because  of  the  size  of  the  Kurdish  population,  the  Kurds  are 
perceived  as  the  only  minority  that  could  pose  a  threat  to  Turk- 
ish national  unity.  Indeed,  there  has  been  an  active  Kurdish 
separatist  movement  in  southeastern  Turkey  since  1984  (see 
Political  Parties,  ch.  4).  The  government's  main  strategy  for 
assimilating  the  Kurds  has  been  language  suppression.  Yet, 
despite  official  attempts  over  several  decades  to  spread  Turkish 
among  them,  most  Kurds  have  retained  their  native  language. 
In  Turkey  two  major  Kurdish  dialects  are  spoken:  Kermanji, 
which  is  used  by  the  majority  of  Kurds,  as  well  as  by  some  of  the 
Kurds  in  Iran  and  Iraq;  and  Zaza,  spoken  mainly  in  a  triangular 
region  in  southeastern  Turkey  between  Diyarbakir,  Ezurum, 
and  Sivas,  as  well  as  in  parts  of  Iran.  Literate  Kurds  in  Turkey 
have  used  Kermanji  as  the  written  form  of  Kurdish  since  the 
seventeenth  century.  However,  almost  all  literary  development 
of  the  language  since  1924  has  occurred  outside  Turkey.  In 
1932  Kurds  in  exile  developed  a  Latin  script  for  Kermanji,  and 
this  alphabet  continued  to  be  used  in  the  mid-1990s. 

Prior  to  the  1980  military  coup,  government  authorities  con- 
sidered Kurdish  one  of  the  unnamed  languages  banned  by  law. 
Use  of  Kurdish  was  strictly  prohibited  in  all  government  institu- 
tions, including  the  courts  and  schools.  Nevertheless,  during 


98 


Kurdish  village  on  Mount  Ararat  (Agn  Dagi) 
Kurdish  village  in  the  mountains  near  Lake  Van,  eastern  Turkey 

Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


99 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

the  1960s  and  again  in  the  mid-1970s,  Kurdish  intellectuals 
attempted  to  start  Kurdish-language  journals  and  newspapers. 
None  of  these  publications  survived  for  more  than  a  few  issues 
because  state  prosecutors  inevitably  found  legal  pretexts  for 
closing  them  down.  Between  1980  and  1983,  the  military  gov- 
ernment passed  several  laws  expressly  banning  the  use  of  Kurd- 
ish and  the  possession  of  written  or  audio  materials  in  Kurdish. 

The  initiation  of  armed  insurrection  by  the  Kurdistan  Work- 
ers' Party  (Partiya  Karkere  Kurdistan — PKK)  in  1984,  along 
with  the  increasing  international  media  interest  in  the  Kurds  of 
Iraq  beginning  in  the  mid-1980s,  compelled  some  members  of 
Turkey's  political  elite  to  question  government  policy  toward 
the  country's  Kurdish  population.  Turgut  Ozal,  who  became 
prime  minister  in  1983  and  president  in  1989,  broke  the  offi- 
cial taboo  on  using  the  term  Kurd  by  referring  publicly  to  the 
people  of  eastern  Anatolia  as  Kurds.  Subsequently,  indepen- 
dent Turkish  newspapers  began  using  the  term  and  discussing 
the  political  and  economic  problems  in  the  eleven  predomi- 
nantly Kurdish  provinces.  In  1991  Ozal  supported  a  bill  that 
revoked  the  ban  on  the  use  of  Kurdish  and  possession  of  mate- 
rials in  Kurdish.  However,  as  of  1995,  the  use  of  Kurdish  in  gov- 
ernment institutions  such  as  the  courts  and  schools  still  was 
prohibited. 

Although  the  Kurds  comprise  a  distinct  ethnic  group,  they 
are  divided  by  class,  regional,  and  sectarian  differences  similar 
to  those  affecting  ethnic  Turks.  Religious  divisions  often  have 
been  a  source  of  conflict  among  the  Kurds.  Although  the  gov- 
ernment of  Turkey  does  not  compile  official  data  on  religious 
affiliation,  scholars  estimate  that  at  least  two-thirds  of  the  Kurds 
in  Turkey  nominally  are  Sunni  Muslims,  and  that  as  many  as 
one-third  are  Shia  Muslims  of  the  Alevi  sect.  Unlike  the  Sunni 
Turks,  who  follow  the  Hanafi  school  of  Islamic  law,  the  Sunni 
Kurds  follow  the  Shafii  school.  Like  their  Turkish  counterparts, 
adult  male  Kurds  with  religious  inclinations  tend  to  join  Sufi 
brotherhoods.  The  Naksibendi  and  Kadiri  orders,  both  of 
which  predate  the  republic,  have  large  Kurdish  followings  in 
Turkey  although  their  greatest  strength  is  among  the  Kurds  of 
Iran.  The  Nurcular,  a  brotherhood  that  came  to  prominence 
during  the  early  republican  years,  also  has  many  Kurdish 
adherents  in  Turkey. 

Whereas  the  number  of  Kurds  belonging  to  the  Alevi  sect  of 
Shia  Islam  is  uncertain,  the  majority  of  Alevi  are  either  Arabs  or 
Turks.  Historically,  the  Alevi  lived  in  isolated  mountain  com- 


100 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


munities  in  southeastern  Turkey  and  western  Syria.  The  Kurd- 
ish Alevi  have  been  migrating  from  their  villages  to  the  cities  of 
central  Anatolia  since  the  1950s.  Whereas  Kurdish  and  Turkish 
Alevi  generally  have  good  relations,  the  competition  between 
Alevi  and  Sunni  Turks  for  urban  jobs  led  to  a  revival  of  tradi- 
tional sectarian  tensions  by  the  mid-1970s.  These  intertwined 
economic  and  religious  tensions  culminated  in  a  series  of  vio- 
lent sectarian  clashes  in  Kahramanmaras,  Corum,  and  other 
cities  in  1978-79  in  which  hundreds  of  Alevi  died. 

A  small  but  unknown  number  of  Kurds  also  adhere  to  the 
secretive  Yazidi  sect,  which  historically  has  been  persecuted  by 
both  Sunni  and  Shia  Muslims.  Small  communities  of  Yazidi  live 
in  Mardin,  Siirt,  and  Sanli  Urfa  provinces.  Yazidi  are  also  found 
among  Kurds  in  Armenia,  Iran,  and  Iraq.  In  Turkey  the  Yazidi 
believe  that  the  government  does  not  protect  them  from  reli- 
gious persecution.  Consequently,  as  many  as  50  percent  of  all 
Yazidi  have  immigrated  to  Germany,  where  they  feel  free  to 
practice  their  heterodox  form  of  Islam. 

Class  differences  also  divide  the  Kurds.  Wealthy  landowners 
in  rural  areas  and  entrepreneurs  in  urban  areas  tend  to  coop- 
erate with  the  government  and  espouse  assimilation.  Many  of 
these  Kurds  are  bilingual  or  even  speak  Turkish  more  comfort- 
ably than  Kurdish,  which  they  disparage  as  the  language  of  the 
uneducated.  The  economic  changes  that  began  in  the  1960s 
have  exacerbated  the  differences  between  the  minority  of 
assimilated  Kurds  and  the  majority  who  have  retained  a  Kurd- 
ish identity.  Militant  Kurdish  political  groups  such  as  the  PKK 
have  exploited  these  class  differences  since  1984. 

Arabs 

In  1995  Turkey's  ethnic  Arab  population  was  estimated  at 
800,000  to  1  million.  The  Arabs  are  heavily  concentrated  along 
the  Syrian  border,  especially  in  Hatay  Province,  which  France, 
having  at  that  time  had  mandatory  power  in  Syria,  ceded  to 
Turkey  in  1939.  Arabs  then  constituted  about  two-thirds  of  the 
population  of  Hatay  (known  to  the  Arabs  as  Alexandretta) ,  and 
the  province  has  remained  predominantly  Arab.  Almost  all  of 
the  Arabs  in  Turkey  are  Alevi  Muslims,  and  most  have  family 
ties  with  the  Alevi  (also  seen  as  Alawi  or  Alawite)  living  in  Syria. 
As  Alevi,  the  Arabs  of  Turkey  believe  they  are  subjected  to  state- 
condoned  discrimination.  Fear  of  persecution  actually 
prompted  several  thousand  Arab  Alevi  to  seek  refuge  in  Syria 
following  Hatay's  incorporation  into  Turkey.  The  kinship  rela- 


101 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


tions  established  as  a  result  of  the  1939-40  emigration  have 
been  continually  reinforced  by  marriages  and  the  practice  of 
sending  Arab  youths  from  Hatay  to  colleges  in  Syria.  Since  the 
mid-1960s,  the  Syrian  government  has  tended  to  encourage 
educated  Alevi  to  resettle  in  Syria,  especially  if  they  seem  likely 
to  join  the  ruling  Baath  Party. 

Peoples  from  the  Caucasus 

Three  small  but  distinct  ethnic  groups  (aside  from  the  more 
numerous  Armenians)  have  their  origins  in  the  Caucasus 
Mountains:  the  Circassians,  the  Georgians  (including  the 
Abkhaz),  and  the  Laz.  Approximately  70,000  Circassian  Muslim 
immigrants,  most  originally  from  Russia,  gradually  settled, 
beginning  in  the  late  eighteenth  century,  in  the  Adana  region, 
where  they  and  their  descendants  continue  to  live  as  farmers 
and  farm  laborers. 

The  Muslim  Georgians  and  Laz  are  concentrated  in  the 
northeastern  provinces.  The  Laz,  who  are  primarily  Black  Sea 
fisherfolk,  live  in  villages  near  the  coastal  city  of  Rize.  The  term 
Georgian  actually  refers  to  several  different  peoples  who  speak 
similar  but  mutually  unintelligible  languages.  One  distinct 
group  of  Georgians  are  the  Abkhaz,  who  are  primarily  cultiva- 
tors and  herders.  Most  Georgians  live  in  Artvin  Province,  par- 
ticularly east  of  the  Qoruh  River  and  along  the  border  with 
Georgia. 

Ddnme 

The  Donme  are  descendants  of  the  Jewish  followers  of  a  self- 
proclaimed  messiah,  Sabbatai  Sebi  (or  Zevi,  1626-76),  who  was 
forced  by  the  sultan  to  convert  to  Islam  in  1666.  Their  doctrine 
includes  Jewish  and  Islamic  elements.  They  consider  them- 
selves Muslims  and  officially  are  recognized  as  such.  Their 
name  is  the  Turkish  word  for  convert,  but  it  carries  overtones  of 
turncoat  as  well. 

The  Donme  have  been  successful  in  business  and  in  the  pro- 
fessions, but  historically  they  have  not  been  part  of  the  social 
elite  because  neither  Jews  nor  Muslims  fully  accept  them.  Expe- 
rience with  prejudice  inclines  some  Donme  to  hide  their  iden- 
tity to  avoid  discrimination  and  also  has  encouraged  the 
Donme  to  become  a  tightly  knit,  generally  endogamous  group. 
Since  the  early  1980s,  however,  overt  discrimination  has  less- 
ened, and  intermarriage  between  Donme  and  other  Muslims 
has  grown  common. 


102 


Men  drinking  tea,  eastern 
Turkey 

Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


Greeks 

In  1995  fewer  than  20,000  Greeks  still  lived  in  Turkey.  Most 
of  them  are  Eastern  or  Greek  Orthodox  Christians  and  live  in 
Istanbul  or  on  the  two  islands  of  Gokceada  (Imroz)  and  Bozca 
Ada  (Tenedos),  off  the  western  entrance  to  the  Dardanelles. 
They  are  the  remnants  of  the  estimated  200,000  Greeks  who 
were  permitted  under  the  provisions  of  the  Treaty  of  Lausanne 
to  remain  in  Turkey  following  the  1924  population  exchange, 
which  involved  the  forcible  resettlement  of  approximately  2 
million  Greeks  from  Anatolia.  Since  1924  the  status  of  the 
Greek  minority  in  Turkey  has  been  ambiguous.  Most  Turks  do 
not  accept  the  country's  Greek  citizens  as  their  equals.  Begin- 
ning in  the  1930s,  the  government  encouraged  the  Greeks  to 
emigrate,  and  thousands,  in  particular  the  educated  youth,  did 
so,  reducing  the  Greek  population  to  about  48,000  by  1965. 
Although  the  size  of  the  Greek  minority  has  continued  to 
decline,  the  Greek  citizens  of  Turkey  generally  constitute  one 
of  the  country's  wealthiest  communities. 

Armenians 

The  tiny  Armenian  minority,  estimated  at  40,000  in  1995, 
also  is  a  remnant  of  a  once-larger  community.  Before  World 
War  I,  some  1.5  million  Armenians  lived  in  eastern  Anatolia. 


103 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Starting  in  the  late  nineteenth  century,  intergroup  tensions 
prompted  the  emigration  of  possibly  as  many  as  100,000  Arme- 
nians in  the  1890s.  In  1915  the  Ottoman  government  ordered 
all  Armenians  deported  from  eastern  Anatolia;  at  least  600,000 
of  the  Armenians,  who  numbered  up  to  2  million,  died  during 
a  forced  march  southward  during  the  winter  of  1915-16.  Arme- 
nians believe — and  Turks  deny — that  the  catastrophe  that 
befell  their  community  was  the  result  of  atrocities  committed 
by  Turkish  soldiers  following  government  directives.  Arme- 
nians outside  Turkey  refer  to  the  deaths  of  1915-16  as  an 
instance  of  genocide,  and  over  the  years  various  Armenian 
political  groups  have  sought  to  avenge  the  tragedy  by  carrying 
out  terrorist  attacks  against  Turkish  diplomats  and  officials 
abroad  (see  Armenian  Terrorism,  ch.  5). 

Most  Armenians  living  in  Turkey  are  concentrated  in  and 
around  Istanbul.  Like  the  Greeks,  they  are  bankers  and  mer- 
chants with  extensive  international  contacts.  The  Armenians 
support  their  own  newspapers  and  schools.  They  are  intensely 
attached  to  their  Christian  faith  and  their  identity  as  Arme- 
nians rather  than  Turks.  In  addition,  they  have  relatives  in  the 
Armenian  diaspora  throughout  the  world.  The  establishment 
of  an  independent  Armenia  on  Turkey's  eastern  border  follow- 
ing the  dissolution  of  the  Soviet  Union  in  1991  was  a  source  of 
ethnic  pride  for  the  Armenians  of  Turkey.  However,  Armenia's 
conflict  with  Turkic  Azerbaijan,  combined  with  the  jingoistic 
support  of  Azerbaijan  in  the  Turkish  media,  has  raised  appre- 
hensions among  the  Armenian  minority  about  their  future  sta- 
tus in  Turkey. 

jews 

In  1995  an  estimated  18,000  to  20,000  Jews  lived  in  Turkey. 
During  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century,  the  Jewish  popu- 
lation remained  relatively  stable  at  around  90,000.  Following 
the  establishment  of  Israel  in  1948,  an  estimated  30,000  Jews 
immigrated  to  the  new  state.  An  average  of  1,000  Jews  annually 
left  for  Israel  during  the  1950s  and  early  1960s.  By  1965  the 
Jewish  minority  had  been  reduced  to  an  estimated  44,000,  most 
of  whom  lived  in  Istanbul,  where  many  Jewish  men  operated 
shops  and  other  small  businesses. 

Unlike  the  Armenians  and  Greeks,  the  Jewish  minority  is 
neither  ethnically  nor  linguistically  homogeneous.  Most  of  its 
members  are  Sephardic  Jews  whose  ancestors  were  expelled 
from  Spain  by  the  Roman  Catholic  Inquisition  in  1492.  They 


104 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


speak  Ladino,  a  variant  of  fifteenth-century  Spanish  with  bor- 
rowings from  several  other  languages.  The  Ashkenazic  minor- 
ity— Jews  from  central  and  northern  Europe — speak  Yiddish,  a 
German-derived  language.  Both  languages  are  written  in  the 
Hebrew  script.  Most  Jews  also  speak  Turkish.  The  Karaites — 
viewed  by  most  other  Jews  as  heretics — speak  Greek  as  their 
native  language.  In  general,  the  different  Jewish  communities 
have  tended  not  to  intermarry  and  thus  have  retained  their 
identities. 

Religious  Life 

The  institutional  secularization  of  Turkey  was  the  most 
prominent  and  most  controversial  feature  of  Ataturk's  reforms. 
Under  his  leadership,  the  caliphate — office  of  the  successors  to 
Muhammad,  the  supreme  politico-religious  office  of  Islam,  and 
symbol  of  the  sultan's  claim  to  world  leadership  of  all  Mus- 
lims— was  abolished.  The  secular  power  of  the  religious  author- 
ities and  functionaries  was  reduced  and  eventually  eliminated. 
The  religious  foundations  (evkaf;  sing.,  vakif)  were  national- 
ized, and  religious  education  was  restricted  and  for  a  time  pro- 
hibited. The  influential  and  popular  mystical  orders  of  the 
dervish  brotherhoods  also  were  suppressed. 

Although  Turkey  was  secularized  at  the  official  level,  religion 
remained  a  strong  force  at  the  popular  level.  After  1950  some 
political  leaders  tried  to  benefit  from  popular  attachment  to 
religion  by  espousing  support  for  programs  and  policies  that 
appealed  to  the  religiously  inclined.  Such  efforts  were  opposed 
by  most  of  the  political  elite,  who  believed  that  secularism  was 
an  essential  principle  of  Kemalism.  This  disinclination  to 
appreciate  religious  values  and  beliefs  gradually  led  to  a  polar- 
ization of  society.  The  polarization  became  especially  evident  in 
the  1980s  as  a  new  generation  of  educated  but  religiously  moti- 
vated local  leaders  emerged  to  challenge  the  dominance  of  the 
secularized  political  elite.  These  new  leaders  have  been  asser- 
tively proud  of  Turkey's  Islamic  heritage  and  generally  have 
been  successful  at  adapting  familiar  religious  idioms  to 
describe  dissatisfaction  with  various  government  policies.  By 
their  own  example  of  piety,  prayer,  and  political  activism,  they 
have  helped  to  spark  a  revival  of  Islamic  observance  in  Turkey. 
By  1994  slogans  promising  that  a  return  to  Islam  would  cure 
economic  ills  and  solve  the  problems  of  bureaucratic  ineffi- 
ciencies had  enough  general  appeal  to  enable  avowed  religious 


105 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

candidates  to  win  mayoral  elections  in  Istanbul  and  Ankara, 
the  country's  two  most  secularized  cities. 

Islam 

Islam  is  a  monotheistic  religion.  A  believer  is  a  Muslim,  liter- 
ally, "one  who  submits  to  God."  Muslims  believe  that  Allah 
(Arabic  for  God)  gave  revelations  through  the  angel  Gabriel  to 
the  Prophet  Muhammad  (A.D.  570-632  ),  a  native  of  the  Ara- 
bian Peninsula  city  of  Mecca.  Muhammad's  efforts  to  convert 
people  to  monotheism  disturbed  the  merchant  elite,  who 
feared  that  his  preaching  would  adversely  affect  the  pilgrims 
who  regularly  visited  Mecca,  which  in  the  early  seventh  century 
had  shrines  to  several  gods  and  goddesses.  Mecca's  principal 
destination  for  pilgrims  was  the  Kaaba,  a  shrine  housing  a  ven- 
erated black  rock  which  over  the  years  had  been  surrounded  by 
various  idols.  The  lack  of  acceptance  by  Meccans  of  Muham- 
mad's preaching  caused  him  and  his  followers  in  A.D.  622  to 
migrate  to  Medina  in  response  to  an  invitation  by  that  city's 
leaders.  Muhammad's  migration  to  Medina  enabled  him  to 
organize  the  politico-religious  community — the  umma — that 
marked  the  beginning  of  Islam  as  a  political  movement  as  well 
as  a  religious  faith.  Thus,  the  date  of  the  migration,  or  hicret 
(from  the  Arabic  hijra),  was  adopted  by  the  Muslim  community 
as  the  beginning  of  the  Islamic  era.  The  Islamic  calendar  is 
based  on  a  lunar  year,  which  averages  eleven  days  less  than  a 
solar  year.  The  Islamic  calendar  is  used  in  Turkey  for  religious 
purposes. 

By  the  time  of  the  Prophet's  death  ten  years  after  his  migra- 
tion to  Medina,  most  of  the  Arabian  Peninsula,  including  the 
city  of  Mecca,  had  converted  to  Islam.  During  the  last  two  years 
of  his  life,  Muhammad  led  fellow  Muslims  on  pilgrimages  to 
Mecca,  where  the  Kaaba  was  relieved  of  its  idols  and  dedicated 
to  the  worship  of  Allah.  Since  then,  praying  at  the  Kaaba  has 
been  the  ultimate  goal  of  the  pilgrimage,  or  hajj,  which  every 
able-bodied  adult  Muslim  is  expected  to  make  at  least  once  in 
his  or  her  lifetime. 

Tenets  of  Islam 

Muslims  believe  that  all  of  Allah's  revelations  to  the  Prophet 
are  contained  in  the  Kuran  (in  Arabic,  Quran),  which  is  com- 
posed in  rhymed  prose.  The  Kuran  consists  of  114  chapters, 
called  suras,  the  first  of  which  is  a  short  "opening"  chapter.  The 
remaining  113  segments  are  arranged  roughly  in  order  of 


106 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


decreasing  length.  The  short  suras  at  the  end  of  the  book  are 
early  revelations,  each  consisting  of  material  revealed  on  the 
same  occasion.  The  longer  suras  toward  the  beginning  of  the 
book  are  compilations  of  verses  revealed  at  different  times  in 
Muhammad's  life. 

The  central  beliefs  of  Islam  are  monotheism  and  Muham- 
mad's status  as  the  "seal  of  the  Prophets,"  that  is,  the  final 
prophet  to  whom  God  revealed  messages  for  the  spiritual  guid- 
ance of  humanity.  Jesus  Christ  and  the  prophets  of  the  Old  Tes- 
tament are  also  accepted  as  Islamic  prophets.  Muslims  who 
profess  belief  in  God  and  Muhammad's  prophethood,  pray  reg- 
ularly, and  live  by  Islamic  ethical  and  moral  principles  are 
assured  that  their  souls  will  find  eternal  salvation  in  heaven. 
The  profession  of  belief  in  one  God  and  the  prophethood  of 
Muhammad  is  known  as  the  sahadet  (in  Arabic,  shahada),  and  is 
one  of  the  five  basic  obligations  or  "pillars"  of  Islam.  The  pro- 
fession of  faith — "There  is  no  God  but  God  and  Muhammad  is 
his  Prophet" — always  is  recited  in  Arabic.  It  is  repeated  during 
prayer  and  on  many  other  ritual  occasions. 

The  four  other  pillars  of  Islam  are  prayer  (namaz;  salat  in 
Arabic),  giving  alms  to  the  needy  (zekat;  zakah  in  Arabic),  fast- 
ing (oru£  sawm  in  Arabic)  during  the  month  of  Ramazan  (from 
the  Arabic,  Ramadan) ,  and  the  pilgrimage  (hac,  from  the  Ara- 
bic hajj)  to  Mecca.  The  prescribed  prayers  are  recited  in  Arabic 
and  are  accompanied  by  a  series  of  ritual  body  movements 
meant  to  demonstrate  submission  to  God:  standing,  bowing, 
kneeling,  and  full  prostration.  Muslims  say  the  prayers  at  five 
prescribed  times  a  day,  always  while  facing  in  the  direction  of 
Mecca.  Prayers  are  preceded  by  a  ritual  ablution,  and,  unless 
the  prayer  is  said  in  a  mosque,  a  ritual  purification  of  the 
ground  is  achieved  by  the  unrolling  of  a  clean  prayer  rug. 
Although  it  is  permissible  to  pray  almost  anywhere,  men  pray 
in  congregation  at  mosques  whenever  possible,  especially  on 
Fridays.  Women  are  not  required  to  pray  in  public  but  may 
attend  worship  at  mosques,  which  maintain  separate  sections 
for  women.  Despite  more  than  sixty  years  of  secularist  govern- 
ment policies,  a  majority  of  Turkey's  Muslims  continue  to  recite 
prayers  at  least  occasionally.  In  fact,  mosque  attendance  in  the 
urban  areas,  which  formerly  was  significantly  less  than  in  rural 
areas,  increased  considerably  during  the  1980s.  During  the 
early  1990s,  most  city  mosques  were  filled  to  capacity  on  Fridays 
and  religious  holidays. 


107 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

The  third  pillar  of  Islam,  almsgiving,  is  required  of  all  Mus- 
lims. The  faithful  are  expected  to  give  in  proportion  to  their 
wealth.  In  various  historical  periods,  zekat  assumed  the  status  of 
a  tithe  that  mosques  collected  and  distributed  for  charitable 
purposes.  In  addition  to  zekat,  Muslims  are  encouraged  to 
make  free-will  gifts  (sadaka,  from  the  Arabic  sadaqa). 

Abstinence  from  dawn  to  dusk  from  all  food  and  beverages 
during  the  Islamic  month  of  Ramazan  is  the  fourth  pillar  of  the 
faith  required  of  Muslims.  Persons  who  are  ill;  women  who  are 
pregnant,  nursing,  or  menstruating;  soldiers  on  duty;  travelers 
on  necessary  journeys;  and  young  children  are  exempted  from 
the  fast.  However,  adults  who  are  unable  to  fast  during  Rama- 
zan are  expected  to  observe  a  fast  later.  Ramazan  is  a  period  of 
spiritual  renewal,  and  the  daytime  fasting  is  meant  to  help  con- 
centrate a  Muslim's  thoughts  on  religious  matters.  Many 
mosques,  especially  in  urban  areas,  sponsor  special  prayer 
meetings  and  study  groups  during  the  month.  The  evening 
meal  that  breaks  the  fast  has  special  religious  significance  and 
also  is  an  occasion  for  sharing  among  families  and  friends. 
Muslims  who  can  afford  to  do  so  often  host  one  or  more  fast- 
breaking  meals  for  indigents  during  Ramazan.  The  month  of 
fasting  is  followed  by  a  three-day  celebration,  Seker  Bayrami 
(in  Arabic,  Id  al  Fitr),  which  is  observed  in  Turkey  as  a  national 
holiday. 

The  fifth  pillar  of  Islam  is  the  hac.  Each  Muslim  who  is  finan- 
cially and  physically  able  is  expected  at  least  once  in  his  or  her 
lifetime  to  make  the  pilgrimage  to  Mecca  and  participate  in 
prescribed  religious  rites  performed  at  various  specific  sites  in 
the  holy  city  and  its  environs  during  the  twelfth  month  of  the 
lunar  calendar.  In  one  of  their  most  important  rites,  pilgrims 
pray  while  circumambulating  the  Kaaba,  the  sanctuary  Muslims 
believe  Ibrahim  (Abraham)  and  his  son  Ismail  (Ishmael)  built 
to  honor  the  one  God.  During  the  hac,  pilgrims  sacrifice 
domesticated  animals  such  as  sheep  and  distribute  the  meat 
among  the  needy.  Known  as  the  Feast  of  Sacrifice,  Kurban 
Bayrami  (in  Arabic,  Id  al  Adha),  this  occasion  is  celebrated  not 
only  by  the  pilgrims  but  by  all  Muslims,  and  is  observed  in  Tur- 
key as  a  national  holiday.  The  returning  pilgrim  is  entitled  to 
use  the  honorific  had  (in  Arabic,  hajji)  before  his  or  her  name, 
a  title  that  indicates  successful  completion  of  the  pilgrimage. 

A  pious  Muslim  strives  to  follow  a  code  of  ethical  conduct 
that  encourages  generosity,  fairness,  chastity,  honesty,  and 
respect.  Certain  acts,  including  murder,  cruelty,  adultery,  gam- 


108 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


bling,  and  usury,  are  considered  contrary  to  Islamic  practice. 
Muslims  also  are  enjoined  not  to  consume  carrion,  blood, 
pork,  or  alcohol.  Many  of  the  precepts  for  appropriate  behav- 
ior are  specified  in  the  Kuran.  Other  spiritual  and  ethical 
guidelines  are  found  in  the  hadis  (in  Arabic,  hadith),  an  authen- 
ticated record  of  the  sayings  and  actions  of  Muhammad  and  his 
earliest  companions.  Devout  Muslims  regard  their  words,  acts, 
and  decisions — called  collectively  the  sunna — as  models  to  be 
emulated  by  later  generations.  Because  of  its  normative  charac- 
ter, the  sunna  is  revered  along  with  the  Kuran  as  a  primary 
source  of  seriat  (in  Arabic,  sharia),  or  Islamic  law. 

Islamic  law  evolved  between  the  eighth  and  tenth  centuries. 
Islamic  scholars  reputed  for  their  knowledge  of  the  Kuran, 
hadis,  and  sunna  were  accepted  as  authoritative  interpreters  of 
seriat.  Several  of  them  compiled  texts  of  case  law  that  formed 
the  basis  of  legal  schools.  Eventually,  Sunni  Muslims  came  to 
accept  four  schools  of  law  as  equally  valid.  Two  schools  of  seriat 
exist  in  contemporary  Turkey:  the  Hanafi,  founded  by  Iraqi 
theologian  Abu  Hanifa  (ca.  700-67),  and  the  Shafii,  founded 
by  the  Meccan  jurist  Muhammad  ash  Shafii  (767-820).  Most 
Muslim  Turks  follow  the  Hanafi  school,  whereas  most  Sunni 
Kurds  follow  the  Shafii  school. 

Early  Development 

Following  the  death  of  the  Prophet  in  632,  the  Muslim  com- 
munity failed  to  reach  consensus  on  who  should  succeed  him 
as  the  caliph.  A  majority  of  Muhammad's  close  followers  sup- 
ported the  idea  of  an  elected  caliph,  but  a  minority  believed 
that  leadership,  or  the  imamate,  should  remain  within  the 
Prophet's  family,  passing  first  to  Muhammad's  cousin,  son-in- 
law,  and  principal  deputy,  Ali  ibn  Abu  Talib,  and  subsequently 
to  Ali's  sons  and  their  male  descendants.  The  majority,  who 
believed  they  were  following  the  sunna  of  the  Prophet,  became 
known  as  Sunni  Muslims.  To  them,  the  caliph  was  the  symbolic 
religious  head  of  the  community;  however,  caliphs  would  also 
rule  as  the  secular  leaders  of  a  major  empire  for  six  centuries. 
The  first  four  caliphs — Abu  Bakr,  Omar,  Osman,  and  Ali — were 
chosen  by  a  consensus  of  Muslim  leaders.  Subsequently,  how- 
ever, the  caliphate  was  converted  by  its  holders  into  a  heredi- 
tary office,  the  first  two  dynasties  being  the  Umayyad,  which 
ruled  from  Damascus,  and  the  second  being  the  Abbasid, 
which  ruled  from  Baghdad.  After  the  Mongols  captured  Bagh- 
dad and  executed  the  Abbasid  caliph  in  1258,  a  period  of  more 


109 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

than  250  years  followed  when  no  one  was  recognized  as  caliph 
by  all  Sunni  Muslims.  During  the  sixteenth  century,  the  Otto- 
man Dynasty  resurrected  the  title,  and  gradually  even  Muslims 
outside  the  Ottoman  Empire  came  to  accept  the  Ottoman  sul- 
tan as  the  symbolic  leader — caliph — of  Sunni  Islam. 

The  partisans  of  Ali — the  Shiat  Ali — evolved  into  a  separate 
Islamic  denomination  that  became  known  as  the  Shia.  By  the 
ninth  century,  however,  the  Shia  Muslims  split  into  numerous 
sects  as  a  result  of  disagreements  over  which  of  several  brothers 
was  the  legitimate  leader,  or  imam,  of  the  community.  The 
major  divisions  occurred  over  the  question  of  succession  to  the 
fourth,  sixth,  and  twelfth  imams.  Consequently,  the  origins  of 
almost  all  Shia  sects  can  be  traced  to  the  followers  of  the  fifth, 
seventh,  or  twelfth  imam.  By  the  fifteenth  century,  the  sect 
known  as  the  Twelve  Imam  Shia — a  group  that  recognized  Ali 
and  eleven  of  his  direct  descendants  as  the  legitimate  succes- 
sors to  the  Prophet — had  emerged  as  the  predominant  Shia 
sect. 

In  addition  to  the  orthodox  Twelve  Imam  Shia,  several  sects 
that  revered  the  twelve  imams  but  otherwise  subscribed  to  het- 
erodox beliefs  and  practices  emerged  between  the  ninth  and 
twelfth  centuries.  One  of  these  heterodox  sects,  the  Nusayri, 
originated  in  the  mid-ninth  century  among  the  followers  of  the 
religious  teacher  Muhammad  ibn  Nusayr  an  Namiri.  The 
Nusayri  became  established  in  what  is  now  northern  Syria  and 
southern  Turkey  during  the  tenth  century  when  a  Shia  dynasty 
based  in  Aleppo  ruled  the  region.  Because  of  the  special  devo- 
tion of  the  Nusayri  to  Ali,  Sunni  Muslims  historically  and  pejo- 
ratively referred  to  them  as  Alevi  (see  The  Alevi,  this  ch.). 

Development  of  Islam  in  Turkey 

By  the  end  of  the  seventh  century,  conversion  to  Islam  had 
begun  among  the  Turkish-speaking  tribes,  who  were  migrating 
westward  from  Central  Asia.  The  initial  wave  of  Turkish 
migrants  converted  to  Sunni  Islam  and  became  champions  of 
Islamic  orthodoxy.  As  warriors  of  the  Islamic  faith,  or  gazis,  they 
colonized  and  settled  Anatolia  in  the  name  of  Islam,  especially 
following  the  defeat  of  the  Byzantines  at  the  Battle  of  Manzi- 
kert  (1071).  Beginning  in  the  twelfth  century,  new  waves  of 
Turkic  migrants  became  attracted  to  militant  Sufi  orders, 
which  gradually  incorporated  heterodox  Shia  beliefs.  One  Sufi 
order  that  appealed  to  Turks  in  Anatolia  after  1300  was  the 
Safavi,  based  in  northwest  Iran.  During  the  fourteenth  and  fif- 


110 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


teenth  centuries,  the  Safavi  and  similar  orders  such  as  the  Bek- 
tasi  became  rivals  of  the  Ottomans — who  were  orthodox  Sunni 
Muslims — for  political  control  of  eastern  Anatolia.  Concern 
about  the  growing  influence  of  the  Safavi  probably  was  one  of 
the  factors  that  prompted  the  Ottomans  to  permit  unorthodox 
Bektasi  Sufism  to  become  the  official  order  of  the  janissary  sol- 
diers (see  The  Ottoman  Empire,  ch.  1).  Although  the  Bektasi 
became  accepted  as  a  sect  of  orthodox  Sunni  Muslims,  they  did 
not  abandon  their  heterodox  Shia  beliefs.  In  contrast,  the 
Safavi  eventually  conquered  Iran,  shed  their  heterodox  reli- 
gious beliefs,  and  became  proponents  of  orthodox  Twelve 
Imam  Shia  Islam. 

The  conquest  of  the  Byzantine  capital  of  Constantinople — 
which  the  Turks  called  Istanbul  (from  the  Greek  phrase  eis  tin 
polin,  "to  the  city") — in  1453  enabled  the  Ottomans  to  consoli- 
date their  empire  in  Anatolia  and  Thrace.  The  Ottomans 
revived  the  title  of  caliph,  based  their  legitimacy  on  Islam,  and 
integrated  religion  into  the  government  and  administration. 
Despite  the  absence  of  a  formal  institutional  structure,  Sunni 
religious  functionaries  played  an  important  political  role.  Jus- 
tice was  dispensed  by  religious  courts;  in  theory,  the  codified 
system  of  seriat  regulated  all  aspects  of  life,  at  least  for  the  Mus- 
lim subjects  of  the  empire.  The  head  of  the  judiciary  ranked 
directly  below  the  sultan  and  was  second  in  power  only  to  the 
grand  vizier.  Early  in  the  Ottoman  period,  the  office  of  grand 
mufti  of  Istanbul  evolved  into  that  of  seyhillislam  (shaykh,  or 
leader  of  Islam),  which  had  ultimate  jurisdiction  over  all  the 
courts  in  the  empire  and  consequently  exercised  authority  over 
the  interpretation  and  application  of  seriat.  Legal  opinions  pro- 
nounced by  the  seyhillislam  were  considered  definitive  interpre- 
tations. 

Sufism  and  Folk  Islam 

From  the  earliest  days  of  Islam,  some  Muslims  have  been 
attracted  to  mystical  interpretations  of  their  religion.  In  Tur- 
key, at  least  since  the  thirteenth  century,  Islamic  mysticism  has 
been  expressed  through  participation  in  Sufi  brotherhoods 
that  serve  as  centers  of  spiritual  and  social  life.  The  term  Sufi 
derives  from  the  Arabic  suf,  which  means  wool.  Early  Muslims 
used  the  term  Sufi  to  refer  to  fellow  believers  who  wore  simple 
woolen  garments  to  demonstrate  their  rejection  of  materialism 
and  worldly  temptations  and  their  devotion  to  a  life  of  asceti- 
cism and  prayer.  Eventually,  some  Sufis  who  had  acquired  repu- 


111 


112 


View  of  Istanbul  and  the  Blue  Mosque 
Courtesy  Hermine  Dreyfuss 


113 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

tations  for  their  learning  and  piety  attracted  disciples  who 
aspired  to  learn  from  and  emulate  these  Sufi  masters.  Initially, 
Sufi  followers  were  like  students  whose  bonds  to  a  Sufi  teacher 
were  based  on  personal  loyalty.  Since  the  twelfth  century,  how- 
ever, most  Sufis  have  organized  themselves  into  orders  or 
brotherhoods  (tarikat;  pi.,  tarikatlar — see  Glossary)  that  follow 
the  teachings  of  a  particular  Sufi  master. 

Many  Sufi  tarikatlar  established  institutional  bases,  called 
tekke  or  dergah  (lodges),  that  lasted  for  several  generations  and, 
in  some  instances,  even  for  centuries.  For  example,  two  of  con- 
temporary Turkey's  largest  tarikatlar,  the  Naksibendi  and  the 
Kadiri,  date  back  at  least  to  the  fourteenth  century.  Some 
tarikatlar  carry  the  name  of  the  founding  Sufi  master,  the  seyh 
(in  Arabic,  shaykh).  One  example  is  the  Mevlevi  brotherhood. 
Its  members  popularly  are  called  whirling  dervishes  because  of 
the  rhythmic  whirling  they  engage  in  as  a  spiritual  exercise  and 
a  means  to  achieve  ecstatic  proximity  to  God.  The  brotherhood 
is  named  after  its  founder,  Mevlana  (Jalal  ad  Din  Rumi,  d. 
1273).  Ordinarily,  a  designated  successor  to  the  seyh  inherited 
his  position  of  leadership  as  well  as  the  mantle  of  his  spiritual 
power.  Induction  into  a  particular  tarikat  became  regulated 
and  usually  depended  on  the  performance  of  prescribed  initia- 
tion procedures.  Initiates  were  placed  at  different  levels, 
depending  on  the  instruction  they  had  mastered.  Some  of  the 
larger  Sufi  tarikatlar  established  branches  and  through  evkaf 
accumulated  land  and  buildings,  which  functioned  as  tekkes, 
Kuran  schools,  residential  monasteries,  orphanages,  and  hos- 
pices. 

The  early  tarikatlar  were  strongly  influenced  by  Shia  doc- 
trines. Consequently,  the  political  conflicts  between  the  Sunni 
Ottoman  and  Shia  Safavi  dynasties  affected  the  Sufi  orders  in 
Turkey.  Sunni  tarikatlar  eventually  deemphasized  such  prac- 
tices as  the  veneration  of  Ali  ibn  Abu  Talib  and  received  official 
patronage  from  some  Ottoman  sultans.  However,  at  least  one 
Shia  tarikat,  the  Bektasi,  supported  the  Ottomans  and  actually 
exercised  significant  political  influence  without  changing  their 
heterodox  beliefs.  The  Bektasi  and  the  Sunni  tarikatlar also 
served  an  important  social  function  by  providing  educational 
and  social  welfare  services,  constituting  a  means  of  social 
mobility,  and  offering  spiritual  guidance  to  the  people,  espe- 
cially in  rural  areas. 

Folk  Islam  in  Turkey  has  derived  many  of  its  popular  prac- 
tices from  Sufism.  Particular  Sufi  seyhs — and  occasionally  other 


114 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


individuals  reputed  to  be  pious — were  regarded  after  death  as 
saints  having  special  powers  to  mediate  between  believers  and 
God.  Veneration  of  saints  (both  male  and  female)  and  pilgrim- 
ages to  their  shrines  and  graves  represent  an  important  aspect 
of  popular  Islam  in  both  the  city  and  the  country.  Folk  Islam 
has  continued  to  embrace  such  practices  although  the  venera- 
tion of  saints  officially  has  been  discouraged  since  the  1930s. 
Plaques  posted  in  various  sanctuaries  forbid  the  lighting  of  can- 
dles, the  offering  of  votive  objects,  and  related  devotional  activ- 
ities in  these  places. 

The  Alevi 

A  significant  Shia  minority  lives  in  Turkey.  As  in  the  Otto- 
man period,  a  census  of  the  Shia  population  has  never  been 
taken  in  the  republican  period.  Thus,  there  is  no  accurate 
information  on  the  size  of  the  Shia  community,  which  has  been 
estimated  to  constitute  as  little  as  7  percent  and  as  much  as  30 
percent  of  Turkey's  total  population.  Sunni  in  Turkey  tend  to 
refer  to  all  Shia  as  Alevi.  In  actuality,  Alevi  constitute  but  one  of 
four  Shia  sects  in  the  country.  But  Alevi  are  by  far  the  largest 
Shia  sect  in  Turkey,  accounting  for  at  least  70  percent  of  the 
country's  Shia. Twelve  Imam  Shia  and  followers  of  the  hetero- 
dox Ahl-i  Haq  and  Bektasi  have  resided  in  Turkey  for  centuries. 
Twelve  Imam  Shia  comprise  a  majority  of  all  Shia  worldwide, 
although  their  numbers  in  Turkey  are  estimated  at  only  20  to 
25  percent  of  all  Shia  in  the  country.  Scholars  believe  that  the 
unorthodox  Ahl-i  Haq,  whose  adherents  are  almost  exclusively 
Kurds,  and  the  equally  unorthodox  Bektasi,  whose  followers 
primarily  are  ethnic  Turks,  are  even  fewer  in  number  than  the 
Twelve  Imam  Shia. 

Even  though  scholars  of  the  contemporary  Middle  East  tend 
to  associate  Alevi  with  Syria,  where  they  have  played  an  influen- 
tial political  role  since  the  1960s,  a  majority  of  all  Alevi  actually 
live  in  Turkey.  Alevi  include  almost  all  of  Turkey's  Arab  minor- 
ity, from  10  to  30  percent  of  the  country's  Kurds,  and  many  eth- 
nic Turks.  In  fact,  a  majority  of  Alevi  may  be  Turks.  Historically, 
Alevi  resided  predominantly  in  southeastern  Turkey,  but  the 
mass  rural-to-urban  migration  that  has  been  relatively  continu- 
ous since  1960  has  resulted  in  thousands  of  Alevi  moving  to  cit- 
ies in  central  and  western  Anatolia.  Consequently,  Alevi 
communities  of  varying  size  were  located  in  most  of  the  coun- 
try's major  cities  by  the  mid-1990s. 


115 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Because  of  centuries  of  persecution  by  Sunni  Muslims,  Alevi 
became  highly  secretive  about  the  tenets  of  their  faith  and 
their  religious  practices.  Consequently,  almost  no  reliable 
information  about  Alevi  Islam  is  available.  Unsympathetic  pub- 
lished sources  reported  that  Alevi  worshiped  Ali  ibn  Abu  Talib, 
observed  various  Christian  rituals,  and  venerated  both  Chris- 
tian and  Muslim  saints.  Prior  to  the  twentieth  century,  informa- 
tion on  the  sect  was  so  sparse  and  distorted  that  even  Twelve 
Imam  Shia  regarded  Alevi  as  heretics.  However,  the  tendency 
among  most  contemporary  Twelve  Imam  clergy  is  to  recognize 
the  Alevi  as  a  distinct  legal  school  within  the  Twelve  Imam  tra- 
dition. In  addition,  major  Twelve  Imam  Shia  theological  col- 
leges in  Iran  and  Iraq  have  accepted  Alevi  students  since  the 
1940s. 

Secularist  Policies 

In  1922  the  new  nationalist  regime  abolished  the  Ottoman 
sultanate,  and  in  1924  it  abolished  the  caliphate,  the  religious 
office  that  Ottoman  sultans  had  held  for  four  centuries.  Thus, 
for  the  first  time  in  Islamic  history,  no  ruler  claimed  spiritual 
leadership  of  Islam.  The  withdrawal  of  Turkey,  heir  to  the  Otto- 
man Empire,  as  the  presumptive  leader  of  the  world  Muslim 
community  was  symbolic  of  the  change  in  the  government's 
relationship  to  Islam.  Indeed,  secularism  or  laicism  (laiklik) 
became  one  of  the  "Six  Arrows"  of  Ataturk's  program  for 
remaking  Turkey.  Whereas  Islam  had  formed  the  identity  of 
Muslims  within  the  Ottoman  Empire,  secularism  was  seen  as 
molding  the  new  Turkish  nation  and  its  citizens. 

Ataturk  and  his  associates  not  only  abolished  certain  reli- 
gious practices  and  institutions  but  also  questioned  the  value  of 
religion,  preferring  to  place  their  trust  in  science.  They 
regarded  organized  religion  as  an  anachronism  and  contrasted 
it  unfavorably  with  "civilization,"  which  to  them  meant  a  ratio- 
nalist, secular  culture.  Establishment  of  secularism  in  Turkey 
was  not,  as  it  had  been  in  the  West,  a  gradual  process  of  separa- 
tion of  church  and  state.  In  the  Ottoman  Empire,  all  spheres  of 
life,  at  least  theoretically,  had  been  subject  to  religious  law,  and 
Sunni  religious  organizations  had  been  part  of  the  state  struc- 
ture. When  the  reformers  of  the  early  1920s  opted  for  a  secular 
state,  they  removed  religion  from  the  sphere  of  public  policy 
and  restricted  it  exclusively  to  that  of  personal  morals,  behav- 
ior, and  faith.  Although  private  observance  of  religious  rituals 


116 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


could  continue,  religion  and  religious  organization  were 
excluded  from  public  life. 

The  policies  directly  affecting  religion  were  numerous  and 
sweeping.  In  addition  to  the  abolition  of  the  caliphate,  new 
laws  mandated  abolition  of  the  office  of  seyhulislam;  abolition  of 
the  religious  hierarchy;  the  closing  and  confiscation  of  Sufi 
lodges,  meeting  places,  and  monasteries  and  the  outlawing  of 
their  rituals  and  meetings;  establishment  of  government  con- 
trol over  the  evkaf,  which  had  been  inalienable  under  seriat; 
replacement  of  seriat  with  adapted  European  legal  codes;  the 
closing  of  religious  schools;  abandonment  of  the  Islamic  calen- 
dar in  favor  of  the  Gregorian  calendar  used  in  the  West;  restric- 
tions on  public  attire  that  had  religious  associations,  with  the 
fez  outlawed  for  men  and  the  veil  discouraged  for  women;  and 
the  outlawing  of  the  traditional  garb  of  local  religious  leaders. 

Atatvirk  and  his  colleagues  also  attempted  to  Turkify  Islam 
through  official  encouragement  of  such  practices  as  using 
Turkish  rather  than  Arabic  at  devotions,  substituting  the  Turk- 
ish word  Tanri  for  the  Arabic  word  Allah,  and  introducing  Turk- 
ish for  the  daily  calls  to  prayer.  These  changes  in  devotional 
practices  deeply  disturbed  faithful  Muslims  and  caused  wide- 
spread resentment,  which  led  in  1933  to  a  return  to  the  Arabic 
version  of  the  call  to  prayer.  Of  longer-lasting  effect  were  the 
regime's  measures  prohibiting  religious  education,  restricting 
the  building  of  new  mosques,  and  transferring  existing 
mosques  to  secular  purposes.  Most  notably,  the  Hagia  Sophia 
(Justinian's  sixth-century  Christian  basilica,  which  had  been 
converted  into  a  mosque  by  Mehmet  II)  was  made  a  museum 
in  1935.  The  effect  of  these  changes  was  to  make  religion,  or 
more  correctly  Sunni  Islam,  subject  to  the  control  of  a  hostile 
state.  Muftis  and  imams  (prayer  leaders)  were  appointed  by  the 
government,  and  religious  instruction  was  taken  over  by  the 
Ministry  of  National  Education. 

Retreat  from  Secularism 

The  expectation  of  the  secular  ruling  elite  that  the  policies 
of  the  1920s  and  1930s  would  diminish  the  role  of  religion  in 
public  life  did  not  materialize.  As  early  as  1925,  religious  griev- 
ances were  one  of  the  principal  causes  of  the  Seyh  Sait  rebel- 
lion, an  uprising  in  southeastern  Turkey  that  may  have  claimed 
as  many  as  30,000  lives  before  being  suppressed.  Following  the 
relaxation  of  authoritarian  political  controls  in  1946,  large 
numbers  of  people  began  to  call  openly  for  a  return  to  tradi- 


117 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

tional  religious  practice.  During  the  1950s,  even  certain  politi- 
cal leaders  found  it  expedient  to  join  religious  leaders  in 
advocating  more  state  respect  for  religion  (see  Multiparty  Poli- 
tics, 1946-60,  ch.  1). 

A  more  direct  manifestation  of  the  growing  reaction  against 
secularism  was  the  revival  of  the  Sufi  brotherhoods.  Not  only 
did  suppressed  tarikatlar  such  as  the  Kadiri,  Mevlevi,  and  Naksi- 
bendi  reemerge,  but  new  orders  were  formed,  including  the 
Nurcular,  Suleymanci,  and  Ticani.  The  Ticani  became  espe- 
cially militant  in  confronting  the  state.  For  example,  Ticani 
damaged  monuments  to  Ataturk  to  symbolize  their  opposition 
to  his  policy  of  secularization.  Throughout  the  1950s,  there 
were  numerous  trials  of  Ticani  and  other  Sufi  leaders  for  anti- 
state  activities.  Simultaneously,  however,  some  tarikatlar,  notably 
the  Suleymanci  and  Nurcular,  cooperated  with  those  politi- 
cians perceived  as  supportive  of  pro-Islamic  policies.  The  Nur- 
cular eventually  advocated  support  for  Turkey's  multiparty 
political  system,  and  one  of  its  offshoots,  the  Isikcilar,  has 
openly  supported  the  Motherland  Party  since  the  mid-1980s. 

The  demand  for  restoration  of  religious  education  in  public 
schools  began  in  the  late  1940s.  The  government  initially 
responded  by  authorizing  religious  instruction  in  state  schools 
for  those  students  whose  parents  requested  it.  Under  Democrat 
Party  rule  during  the  1950s,  religious  education  was  made  com- 
pulsory in  secondary  schools  unless  parents  made  a  specific 
request  to  have  their  children  excused.  Religious  education 
was  made  compulsory  for  all  primary  and  secondary  school 
children  in  1982. 

Inevitably,  the  reintroduction  of  religion  into  the  school  cur- 
riculum raised  the  question  of  religious  higher  education.  The 
secular  elites,  who  tended  to  distrust  traditional  religious  lead- 
ers, believed  that  Islam  could  be  "reformed"  if  future  leaders 
were  trained  in  state-controlled  seminaries.  To  further  this 
goal,  the  government  in  1949  established  a  faculty  of  divinity  at 
Ankara  University  to  train  teachers  of  Islam  and  imams.  In 
1951  the  Democrat  Party  government  set  up  special  secondary 
schools  {imam  hatip  okullari)  for  the  training  of  imams  and 
preachers.  Initially,  the  imam  hatip  schools  grew  very  slowly,  but 
their  numbers  expanded  rapidly  to  more  than  250  during  the 
1970s,  when  the  pro-Islam  National  Salvation  Party  partici- 
pated in  coalition  governments.  Following  the  1980  coup,  the 
military,  although  secular  in  orientation,  viewed  religion  as  an 


118 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


effective  means  to  counter  socialist  ideas  and  thus  authorized 
the  construction  of  ninety  more  imam  hatip  high  schools. 

During  the  1970s  and  1980s,  Islam  experienced  a  kind  of 
political  rehabilitation  because  right-of-center  secular  leaders 
perceived  religion  as  a  potential  bulwark  in  their  ideological 
struggle  with  left-of-center  secular  leaders.  A  small  advocacy 
group  that  became  extremely  influential  was  the  Hearth  of 
Intellectuals,  an  organization  that  maintains  that  true  Turkish 
culture  is  a  synthesis  of  the  Turks'  pre-Islamic  traditions  and 
Islam.  According  to  the  Hearth,  Islam  not  only  constitutes  an 
essential  aspect  of  Turkish  culture  but  is  a  force  that  can  be  reg- 
ulated by  the  state  to  help  socialize  the  people  to  be  obedient 
citizens  acquiescent  to  the  overall  secular  order.  After  the  1980 
military  coup,  many  of  the  Hearth's  proposals  for  restructuring 
schools,  colleges,  and  state  broadcasting  were  adopted.  The 
result  was  a  purge  from  these  state  institutions  of  more  than 
2,000  intellectuals  perceived  as  espousing  leftist  ideas  incom- 
patible with  the  Hearth's  vision  of  Turkey's  national  culture. 

The  state's  more  tolerant  attitude  toward  Islam  encouraged 
the  proliferation  of  private  religious  activities,  including  the 
construction  of  new  mosques  and  Kuran  schools  in  the  cities, 
the  establishment  of  Islamic  centers  for  research  on  and  con- 
ferences about  Islam  and  its  role  in  Turkey,  and  the  establish- 
ment of  religiously  oriented  professional  and  women's 
journals.  The  printing  of  newspapers,  the  publication  of  reli- 
gious books,  and  the  growth  of  innumerable  religious  projects 
ranging  from  health  centers,  child-care  facilities,  and  youth 
hostels  to  financial  institutions  and  consumer  cooperatives 
flourished.  When  the  government  legalized  private  broadcast- 
ing after  1990,  several  Islamic  radio  stations  were  organized.  In 
the  summer  of  1994,  the  first  Islamic  television  station,  Chan- 
nel 7,  began  broadcasting,  first  in  Istanbul  and  subsequently  in 
Ankara. 

Although  the  tarikatlarhave  played  a  seminal  role  in  Turkey's 
religious  revival  and  in  the  mid-1990s  still  published  several  of 
the  country's  most  widely  circulated  religious  journals  and 
newspapers,  a  new  phenomenon,  Islamci  aydin  (the  Islamist 
intellectual)  unaffiliated  with  the  traditional  Sufi  orders, 
emerged  during  the  1980s.  Prolific  and  popular  writers  such  as 
Ali  Bulac,  Rasim  Ozdenoren,  and  Ismet  Ozel  have  drawn  upon 
their  knowledge  of  Western  philosophy,  Marxist  sociology,  and 
radical  Islamist  political  theory  to  advocate  a  modern  Islamic 
perspective  that  does  not  hesitate  to  criticize  genuine  societal 


119 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

ills  while  simultaneously  remaining  faithful  to  the  ethical  values 
and  spiritual  dimensions  of  religion.  Islamist  intellectuals  are 
harshly  critical  of  Turkey's  secular  intellectuals,  whom  they 
fault  for  trying  to  do  in  Turkey  what  Western  intellectuals  did 
in  Europe:  substitute  worldly  materialism,  in  its  capitalist  or 
socialist  version,  for  religious  values. 

Although  intellectual  debates  on  the  role  of  Islam  attracted 
widespread  interest,  they  did  not  provoke  the  kind  of  contro- 
versy that  erupted  over  the  issue  of  appropriate  attire  for  Mus- 
lim women.  During  the  early  1980s,  female  college  students 
who  were  determined  to  demonstrate  their  commitment  to 
Islam  began  to  cover  their  heads  and  necks  with  large  scarves 
and  wear  long,  shape-concealing  overcoats.  The  appearance  of 
these  women  in  the  citadels  of  Turkish  secularism  shocked 
those  men  and  women  who  tended  to  perceive  such  attire  as  a 
symbol  of  the  Islamic  traditionalism  they  rejected.  Militant  sec- 
ularists persuaded  the  Higher  Education  Council  to  issue  a  reg- 
ulation in  1987  forbidding  female  university  students  to  cover 
their  heads  in  class.  Protests  by  thousands  of  religious  students 
and  some  university  professors  forced  several  universities  to 
waive  enforcement  of  the  dress  code.  The  issue  continued  to 
be  seriously  divisive  in  the  mid-1990s.  Throughout  the  first  half 
of  the  1990s,  highly  educated,  articulate,  but  religiously  pious 
women  have  appeared  in  public  dressed  in  Islamic  attire  that 
conceals  all  but  their  faces  and  hands.  Other  women,  especially 
in  Ankara,  Istanbul,  and  Izmir,  have  demonstrated  against  such 
attire  by  wearing  revealing  fashions  and  Ataturk  badges.  The 
issue  is  discussed  and  debated  in  almost  every  type  of  forum — 
artistic,  commercial,  cultural,  economic,  political,  and  reli- 
gious. For  many  citizens  of  Turkey,  women's  dress  has  become 
the  issue — at  least  for  the  1990s — that  defines  whether  a  Mus- 
lim is  secularist  or  religious. 

Non-Muslim  Minorities 

Because  of  the  absence  since  1965  of  census  data  on  the  eth- 
nic background  and  religious  affiliation  of  Turkish  citizens,  the 
size  of  non-Muslim  communities  in  Turkey  in  1995  was  difficult 
to  estimate.  The  1965  census  enumerated  about  207,000  Chris- 
tians, about  169,000  of  whom  resided  in  urban  areas  and  about 
38,000  in  the  countryside.  The  Christians  included  Armenian, 
Greek,  and  Syrian  Orthodox;  Armenian  and  Syrian  Catholics; 
and  members  of  various  Protestant  denominations.  The  Jewish 
population  in  1965  numbered  about  44,000,  all  but  a  tiny  frac- 


120 


Muslim  woman  with  prayer 
beads,  Ortahisar,  central 
Anatolia 
Courtesy  Hermine  Dreyfuss 


People  praying  on  Ulu  Dag 
Mountain,  near  Bursa,  in 


northwestern  Turkey 
Courtesy  Hermine  Dreyfuss 


tion  of  whom  were  urban  residents.  By  1995  it  was  estimated 
that  the  size  of  these  populations  had  decreased  substantially, 
the  Christians  to  just  under  140,000  and  the  Jews  to  about 
20,000.  The  members  of  these  religious  minorities  are  found 
primarily  in  the  coastal  cities  and  towns,  but  some  live  in  the 
mountainous  regions  of  eastern  Anatolia  near  the  borders  with 
Armenia  and  Georgia. 

In  1995  members  of  religious  minorities  continued  to 
occupy  an  anomalous  position  in  Turkish  society.  Non-Muslims 
remain  to  some  extent  second-class  citizens,  although  they  gen- 
erally are  not  subject  to  overt  discrimination.  A  disproportion- 
ately large  segment  of  the  minority  population  is  represented 
among  the  wealthy  business  and  professional  groups.  Prosely- 
tizing by  non-Muslim  religions  is  strongly  discouraged  by  the 
government.  Under  the  law,  a  Muslim  man  or  woman  may 
marry  a  non-Muslim  spouse,  but  such  marriages  are  infrequent 
and  usually  do  not  entail  conversion. 


121 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

The  Syrian  Orthodox,  or  Jacobite,  community,  which  num- 
bered about  50,000  in  1995,  ranks  as  the  largest  Christian 
denomination  in  Turkey.  An  Arabic-speaking  community  that 
uses  ancient  Aramaic  in  its  liturgy,  the  Syrian  Orthodox  histori- 
cally have  lived  in  villages  in  the  vicinity  of  Mardin  and  Midyat 
in  southeastern  Turkey  Since  the  late  1980s,  intense  fighting  in 
this  region  between  government  forces  and  the  PKK  has  threat- 
ened many  villages  and  prompted  a  migration  to  local  cities 
and  even  to  Istanbul,  where  a  community  of  Syrian  Orthodox, 
initially  established  during  the  Ottoman  era,  was  estimated  to 
number  10,000  in  1995.  The  Syrian  Orthodox  Church  has  its 
own  head,  referred  to  as  a  metropolitan.  The  metropolitan 
(Timotheos  Samuel  Aktash  in  1995)  resides  in  an  ancient 
mountain  monastery  near  Midyat.  Also,  an  estimated  2,000  Syr- 
ian Catholics,  whose  ancestors  converted  from  the  Syrian 
Orthodox  rite,  are  scattered  in  small  communities  in  the  south- 
east. Syrian  Catholics  retain  the  distinct  Syrian  Orthodox  rite 
but  recognize  the  spiritual  authority  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
pope. 

The  Armenian  Orthodox  (or  Gregorian)  community,  with 
some  35,000  members  in  1995,  ranks  as  the  second  largest 
Christian  denomination  in  Turkey.  In  addition,  an  estimated 
7,000  other  Armenians  belong  to  an  autonomous  Orthodox 
church,  to  an  Armenian  Catholic  church  in  union  with  Rome, 
or  to  various  Protestant  denominations.  In  1995  the  Armenian 
Orthodox  Church's  patriarch,  Karekin  Bedros  Kazandjian, 
resided  in  Istanbul.  In  1995  the  Armenian  Orthodox  Church 
maintained  more  than  thirty  churches  and  chapels;  seventy-five 
elementary  and  middle  schools,  and  two  orphanages.  Arme- 
nian Catholics  maintained  ten  churches  in  Istanbul,  as  well  as 
six  elementary  and  middle  schools. 

The  Greek  Orthodox  Church,  the  largest  Christian  church 
in  Turkey  as  recently  as  1960,  had  fewer  than  20,000  members 
in  1995.  The  Ecumenical  Patriarchate  of  Constantinople, 
located  in  the  Fener  quarter  of  Istanbul,  is  the  central  church 
authority  for  Greek  Orthodox  Christians  in  most  of  Europe 
and  beyond.  Because  the  patriarch's  authority  extends  to  all 
Orthodox  believers  outside  Greece  and  the  Middle  East,  he  is 
considered  the  honorary  head  of  the  church  for  communities 
of  Orthodox  Christians  living  in  the  United  States,  Canada, 
Central  and  South  America,  Australia,  and  New  Zealand.  From 
these  communities,  the  patriarchate  in  Istanbul  receives  moral 
and  financial  support.  The  ecumenical  patriarch's  status  has 


122 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


been  affected  by  the  continual  tension  in  Turkish-Greek  rela- 
tions. During  the  1950s  and  1960s,  thousands  of  members  of 
the  Greek  Orthodox  community  left  Turkey  on  account  of  the 
discrimination  or  overt  hostility  they  experienced  following 
Greco-Turkish  conflicts  over  the  status  of  Cyprus.  The  diminu- 
tion of  the  community  has  weakened  the  patriarchate  and 
undermined  its  status  in  its  dealings  with  the  Turkish  govern- 
ment. Nevertheless,  the  patriarchate's  importance  has 
remained  considerable  because  of  its  ecumenical  and  interna- 
tional connections. 

Other  Christian  communities  present  in  Turkey  include  sev- 
eral small  groups  affiliated  with  the  Roman  Catholic  Church. 
Melchites  (Greek  Catholics)  and  Maronites  live  among  the 
Arabs  in  southeast  Hatay  Province.  Although  accepted  by  the 
Vatican  as  part  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  Melchites  and 
Maronite  Catholics  retain  their  own  separate  liturgies. 
Chaldean-rite  Catholics  live  in  the  Diyarbakir  region,  while  Bul- 
garian, Greek,  and  Latin-rite  Catholics  live  in  Istanbul  and 
Izmir.  The  total  number  of  Catholics  of  various  persuasions  in 
early  1995  has  been  estimated  at  25,000. 

Since  1948  the  Jewish  population  has  decreased  steadily.  In 
1995  the  Jewish  community,  estimated  at  18,000  to  20,000,  con- 
sisted primarily  of  Sephardic  Jews.  At  least  90  percent  of  Tur- 
key's Jews  live  in  Istanbul,  where  a  chief  rabbi  presides.  In  1995 
the  Jewish  community  maintained  one  high  school  and  four 
elementary  schools  offering  limited  courses  in  Hebrew. 

Structure  of  Society 

Contemporary  Turkish  society  has  evolved  both  as  a  conse- 
quence of  and  a  response  to  the  major  socioeconomic  changes 
initiated  by  the  republican  government  since  the  early  1920s.  A 
predominantly  agrarian  society  with  little  industry  and  high 
illiteracy  rates  when  the  Ottoman  Empire  collapsed  at  the  end 
of  World  War  I,  Turkey  by  the  1990s  had  become  a  predomi- 
nantly urban  and  industrialized  society  in  which  mass  public 
education  and  the  ability  to  vote  for  government  leaders  in 
competitive  elections  are  regarded  as  basic  rights.  Accompany- 
ing the  changes  has  been  the  growth  of  new  classes  and  interest 
groups,  especially  in  the  large  cities,  where  the  demands  of 
entrepreneurs  and  industrial  workers  are  championed  by  vari- 
ous political  parties.  A  notable  characteristic  of  many  govern- 
ment programs  aimed  at  inducing  specific  socioeconomic 
changes,  however,  has  been  the  penchant  of  ruling  civilian  and 


123 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

military  elites  for  implementing  policies  without  consulting 
those  who  might  be  affected  and  for  using  force  whenever  pop- 
ular resistance  is  encountered.  One  consequence  of  this 
approach  has  been  the  gradual  creation  of  two  distinct  cultures 
in  Turkey:  a  secular,  elitist  culture  that  defines  what  is  progres- 
sive and  modern;  and  a  mass  culture  that  continues  to  be  influ- 
enced by  Islam,  whether  in  its  traditional,  mystical,  modern,  or 
radical  interpretations. 

The  Changing  National  Elite 

Turkey's  national  political  elite  is  a  self-perpetuating  group; 
membership  is  based  on  a  demonstrated  commitment  to  secu- 
larism and  the  other  principles  of  Ataturk.  During  the  initial 
years  of  the  republic,  the  elite  was  recruited  from  the  Ottoman 
bureaucracy  and  military.  Its  members  thus  shared  a  sense  that 
they  knew  best  how  to  carry  out  policies  that  served  the  inter- 
ests of  the  state  and  country.  In  addition,  most  of  the  early 
republican  elite  had  been  involved  with  or  sympathetic  to  the 
pre-World  War  I  Ottoman  political  parties  that  had  espoused 
major  political  and  economic  reforms.  Ataturk  himself,  for 
example,  had  been  a  member  of  the  Unionist  Party  while  serv- 
ing as  an  Ottoman  army  officer  in  Macedonia  (see  The  Young 
Turks,  ch.  1).  During  the  1920s  and  1930s,  the  ruling  elite 
accepted  the  need  for  significant,  even  revolutionary,  reforms 
and  generally  embraced  Ataturk's  programs  enthusiastically.  In 
effect,  service  to  the  country  and  higher  education,  rather 
than  wealth  per  se,  became  primary  qualifications  for  accep- 
tance into  the  political  elite  as  early  as  1930. 

The  national  political  elite  essentially  ruled  Turkey  unchal- 
lenged for  more  than  thirty  years.  Beginning  in  the  1950s,  how- 
ever, the  socioeconomic  changes  resulting  from  government 
policies  provided  numerous  and  varied  opportunities  for  the 
accumulation  of  private  capital  in  finance,  commerce,  trade, 
and  industry.  The  emergence  of  a  wealthy  business  class  inevi- 
tably led  to  the  development  of  class-specific  political  interests 
and  ambitions.  Because  of  this  new  business  elite's  experience 
in  entrepreneurial  activities  rather  than  the  bureaucracy,  its 
members'  views  differed  sharply  from  those  of  the  established 
ruling  elite,  which  generally  supported  state  intervention  in 
the  economy.  Increasing  competition  between  the  two  elites 
over  appropriate  state  policies  was  one  of  the  reasons  for  the 
polarization  that  characterized  Turkey's  national  politics  dur- 
ing the  1970s. 


124 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


A  nongovernment  professional  elite  also  gradually  emerged 
after  1950,  including  architects,  engineers,  lawyers,  managers, 
physicians,  and  university  professors,  who  were  not  necessarily 
unified  in  their  political  views.  Nevertheless,  as  a  group  they 
tended  to  resent  what  they  perceived  as  the  patronizing,  even 
authoritarian,  political  attitudes  of  the  ruling  elite.  This 
group's  frustration  with  the  political  system,  emerging  at  the 
same  time  as  dissatisfaction  within  the  business  elite,  high- 
lighted the  need  for  genuine  political  reform.  During  the 
1970s,  some  members  of  the  ruling  elite  recognized  this  need, 
but  they  were  unable  to  enact  remedial  legislation. 

The  1980  military  coup  symbolized  the  deep  divisions  that 
had  emerged  within  the  ruling  elite  over  strategies  for  dealing 
with  the  political  demands  of  diverse  and  competitive  interest 
groups.  The  officers  and  their  civilian  supporters,  who 
included  some  factions  of  the  business  elite,  wanted  the  state  to 
impose  social  order  through  the  type  of  authoritarian  methods 
they  believed  had  worked  successfully  under  Ataturk.  They 
were  sufficiently  angry  with  dissenting  members  of  the  ruling 
elite  to  arrest  the  most  prominent  politicians,  including  two 
former  prime  ministers.  The  coup  in  effect  split  the  ruling  elite 
into  two  ideological  factions  that  continue  to  coexist  uneasily 
in  the  mid-1990s.  One  elite  group  believes  in  the  efficacy  of  a 
strong  government  to  maintain  social  and  political  stability;  the 
other  elite  faction  believes  in  accommodating  interest  group 
demands  that  do  not  threaten  the  national  cohesion  of  the 
country  and  generally  supports  broadening  political  pluralism. 

Urban  Life 

By  1995  approximately  two-thirds  of  Turkey's  population 
lived  in  urban  areas,  which  continued  to  grow  rapidly  (see  Pop- 
ulation Density,  Distribution,  and  Settlement,  this  ch.).  Urban- 
ization and  industrialization  have  helped  to  create  social-class 
structures  that  are  similar  in  all  large  cities  (population  of 
more  than  100,000)  and  most  smaller  ones  (population  20,000 
to  100,000).  Government  officials,  wealthy  businesspeople,  and 
professionals  together  constitute  the  urban  upper  class.  The 
business  elite  in  most  cities  is  very  diverse  and  generally 
includes  industrialists,  financiers,  large-scale  retailers  and 
wholesalers,  real  estate  developers,  construction  firm  owners, 
transportation  company  operators,  and,  in  Ankara  and  Istan- 
bul, owners  of  commercial  publishing  and  broadcasting  com- 
panies. The  business  elite,  which  constitutes  the  largest 


125 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


component  of  the  upper  class,  has  been  expanding  since  the 
early  1980s  as  a  result  of  government  incentives  for  private 
investors  and  entrepreneurs.  However,  because  statistics  on 
personal  income  in  Turkey  are  neither  complete  nor  reliable, 
there  is  no  accurate  means  of  determining  the  composition  of 
the  upper  class.  Political  power  and  education  continue  to  be 
significant,  albeit  much  less  so  than  before  the  1980  coup,  as 
qualifications  for  upper-class  status.  The  upper  class  makes  up 
about  10  percent  of  the  total  population  of  all  cities. 

The  urban  middle  class  is  larger  and  more  diverse  than  the 
upper  class.  It  includes  various  types  of  administrators;  middle- 
level  bureaucrats  and  public  employees;  engineers  lacking 
advanced  college  degrees;  journalists  and  other  writers;  manag- 
ers of  industrial  enterprises,  commercial  offices,  and  social-ser- 
vice centers;  owners  of  small-scale  retail  establishments  and 
restaurants;  technicians;  self-employed  artisans;  professionals; 
and  tradespeople.  Education,  particularly  a  college  degree,  has 
been  key  to  joining  the  middle  class.  Although  the  middle  class 
was  continuing  to  expand  during  the  early  1980s,  most  of  its 
members  felt  threatened  by  persistently  high  inflation  rates 
that  had  eroded  their  savings  and  impeded  their  upward  social 
mobility.  In  1995  the  middle  class  was  estimated  to  constitute 
20  to  25  percent  of  the  total  urban  population.  It  was  larger  in 
prosperous  cities  but  smaller  in  economically  depressed  areas. 

The  phenomenal  growth  of  cities  since  the  1950s  has  been 
the  result  of  large-scale  migration  of  lower-class  people  from 
the  villages;  in  1995  more  than  60  percent  of  Turkey's  urban 
population  belonged  to  the  lower  class.  Most  villagers  who 
came  to  the  cities  in  search  of  work  were  unable  to  find  afford- 
able housing.  Thus,  they  built  temporary  shelters  on  undevel- 
oped land  on  the  outskirts  of  Ankara  and  Istanbul  and  other 
large  cities.  These  squatter  settlements,  or  gecekondus,  soon 
became  permanent  neighborhoods,  albeit  ones  that  lacked 
urban  amenities  such  as  piped  water,  electricity,  and  paved 
streets.  Eventually,  some  gecekondus  were  incorporated  into  the 
cities  and  provided  with  electricity.  By  1980  up  to  60  percent  of 
the  residents  of  Ankara,  Adana,  Bursa,  Istanbul,  and  Izmir  lived 
in  new  gecekondus  or  in  city  neighborhoods  that  had  originated 
as  gecekondus.  During  the  1970s,  researchers  affiliated  with  gov- 
ernment-funded institutes  tried  to  depict  the  expanding 
gecekondus  as  settlements  that  facilitated  the  adaptation  of  rural 
migrants  to  the  urban  environment.  In  actuality,  all  such  neigh- 


126 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


borhoods  were  urban  slums  where  poverty  and  its  associated 
social  ills  remained  pervasive  in  the  mid-1990s. 

Obtaining  work  in  private  manufacturing  or  state  industries 
is  a  typical  goal  of  lower-class  men  because  of  the  steady 
employment  and  wages  offered.  Among  industrial  workers, 
there  has  been  a  long  tradition  of  group  identification  and  sol- 
idarity. By  1975,  when  more  than  79  percent  of  all  industrial 
workers  had  been  unionized,  labor  leaders  were  able  to  exer- 
cise political  influence  on  behalf  of  legislation  protecting  work- 
ers' rights.  This  situation  changed  dramatically  following  the 
1980  coup.  The  military  government  forcibly  dissolved  existing 
labor  unions,  arrested  prominent  labor  leaders,  and  banned 
strikes.  Subsequently,  to  ensure  that  unions  remained  under 
supervision,  the  civilian  government  of  Turgut  Ozal  encour- 
aged the  formation  of  tradespeople-artisan  guilds.  By  1995 
these  guilds,  however,  represented  only  10  percent  of  the 
entire  labor  force  and  lacked  the  political  influence  of  their 
predecessors  (see  Human  Resources  and  Trade  Unions,  ch.  3). 

In  the  prevailing  climate  of  economic  and  political  uncer- 
tainty following  the  coup,  several  factories  ceased  production,  a 
situation  that  meant  immediate  job  and  income  loss  for  thou- 
sands of  workers.  Even  after  the  restoration  of  civilian  rule,  eco- 
nomic conditions  for  the  lower  class  did  not  improve.  Up  to  25 
percent  of  adult  males  in  the  gecekondus  were  unemployed  in 
the  mid-1980s;  throughout  the  first  half  of  the  1990s,  the  level 
of  industrial  unemployment  remained  at  the  10  to  11  percent 
level.  An  excess  labor  supply  relative  to  available  industrial  jobs 
has  tended  to  keep  wages  depressed. 

There  are  more  nonindustrial  than  industrial  jobs  in  the  cit- 
ies, and  as  many  as  two-thirds  of  all  lower-class  urban  families 
depend  on  nonindustrial,  unskilled  work  for  their  livelihood. 
Such  work  includes  crafts;  automotive  repair;  brick  masonry; 
butchering;  carpentry;  deliveries;  bus  and  taxi  driving;  enter- 
tainment; equipment  operation  in  bakeries;  laundry,  machine 
shop,  and  dockyard  work;  home  painting  and  repairs;  mainte- 
nance of  grounds  and  buildings;  personal  services  in  public 
bathhouses,  barbershops,  beauty  salons,  and  private  homes; 
operation  of  small  retail  shops;  service  jobs  in  hotels,  institu- 
tions, offices,  restaurants,  and  retail  establishments;  street 
cleaning  and  maintenance;  street  vending  of  products  and  ser- 
vices; textile  piecework  in  the  home;  and  various  transport  and 
haulage  jobs. 


127 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 
Towns 

In  addition  to  large  and  small  cities,  Turkey  has  scores  of 
semiurban  places  that  officially  are  classified  as  towns.  A  town 
{kasaba)  is  defined  as  an  incorporated  settlement  with  a  popu- 
lation between  2,000  and  20,000.  Towns  generally  provide  basic 
economic  and  political  services  to  the  regions  in  which  they  are 
located.  The  social  structure  of  larger  towns  is  similar  to  that  of 
the  cities.  There  is  an  elite  composed  of  government  officials, 
military  officers,  and  a  few  wealthy  landowning,  mercantile, 
and  professional  families;  a  middle  class  made  up  of  adminis- 
trators, merchants,  shopkeepers,  soldiers,  and  teachers;  and  a 
lower  class  consisting  of  artisans  and  various  categories  of  work- 
ers. Some  of  these  diverse  occupational  groups  may  be  absent 
in  the  smaller  towns. 

Traditionally,  elite  status  in  towns  derived  from  both  wealth 
and  family  descent.  Political  and  economic  influence  was  exer- 
cised for  several  generations  by  local  landowning  families  that 
had  intermarried  with  Ottoman  officials  sent  by  the  govern- 
ment to  administer  the  towns.  The  policies  introduced  by 
Ataturk  during  the  1920s  and  1930s  changed  the  composition 
of  most  town  elites,  however.  Families  unable  or  unwilling  to 
adapt  lost  influence  and  power,  whereas  those  families  who 
embraced  the  new  values  continued  to  wield  local  influence. 
Since  the  1960s,  the  educated  descendants  of  some  members 
of  the  traditional  landed  elite  have  become  governors,  mayors, 
doctors,  lawyers,  judges,  and  merchants,  as  well  as  large  land- 
owners employing  modern  farm  technology  and  business  prac- 
tices. These  individuals  also  have  assumed  leadership  of  the 
local  hierarchies  of  the  political  parties. 

Village  Life 

Until  the  early  1950s,  more  than  80  percent  of  the  inhabit- 
ants of  Turkey  lived  in  villages,  which  numbered  more  than 
36,000.  As  defined  by  the  government,  a  village  {hoy)  is  any  set- 
tlement with  a  population  of  less  than  2,000.  Although  Turkey's 
rural  population  has  continued  to  grow,  the  percentage  of  the 
total  population  living  in  villages  has  declined  as  a  result  of 
rural-to-urban  migration.  In  1970  about  67  percent  of  the  pop- 
ulation lived  in  villages;  five  years  later,  this  proportion  had 
shrunk  to  59  percent.  In  1980  more  than  54  percent  still  lived 
in  villages,  but  by  1985  most  people  lived  in  urban  areas.  In 
1995  less  than  35  percent  of  the  population  lived  in  villages. 


128 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Since  the  1950s,  agriculture  has  become  increasingly  mecha- 
nized, and  this  gradual  change  has  affected  land  tenure  pat- 
terns and  village  society  (see  Land  Tenure,  ch.  3).  Small 
landowners  and  landless  families  generally  have  not  benefited 
from  this  change,  and  consequently  they  have  been  the  rural 
residents  most  likely  to  migrate  to  the  cities.  In  contrast,  larger 
landowners  have  profited  from  the  new  agricultural  methods 
by  increasing  their  holdings  and  investing  their  increased 
wealth  in  industry.  By  the  early  1980s,  the  personal  and  share- 
cropping  relationships  between  landowners  and  agricultural 
laborers  and  tenants  had  been  replaced  by  new  and  impersonal 
wage  relations.  This  development  prompted  agricultural  wage 
earners  with  grievances  against  landowners  to  seek  advice  and 
relief  from  labor  unions  or  labor-oriented  groups  in  the  towns. 

In  the  1990s,  the  extended  family  network  remains  the  most 
important  social  unit  in  village  society,  even  though  most 
households  tend  to  be  composed  of  nuclear  families.  The 
extended  family  serves  a  crucial  economic  function  in  villages 
by  fostering  cooperation  among  related  households  by  way  of 
informal  arrangements  concerning  shared  machinery,  shared 
labor,  and  even  shared  cash  income.  The  extended  family  also 
is  expected  to  provide  support  if  one  of  its  constituent  nuclear 
households  faces  an  economic,  political,  or  social  crisis.  An 
extended  family  may  be  composed  of  a  father,  his  married 
adult  sons,  and  their  children  and  wives,  but  usually  it  is  a 
broader  concept  embracing  several  generations  headed  by  one 
or  more  senior  males  who  can  trace  common  descent  from  a 
male  ancestor.  In  this  sense,  an  extended  family  is  a  patrilin- 
eage.  Although  such  kin  groups  lack  status  as  corporate  entities 
in  custom  or  law,  they  have  an  important  role  in  defining  fam- 
ily members'  rights  and  obligations. 

There  are  important  similarities  among  villages  within  a 
given  region,  as  well  as  differences  from  one  region  to  the 
next.  In  this  sense,  it  is  possible  to  distinguish  among  villages  in 
three  distinct  geographic  regions:  Anatolia,  the  coastal  area, 
and  southern  and  eastern  Turkey. 

Anatolian  Villages 

The  family  (aile)  is  the  basic  structure  of  Anatolian  village 
life.  The  word  lacks  a  single  specific  meaning  in  peasant  usage, 
referring  instead  to  the  conceptual  group  of  coresidents, 
whether  in  a  household,  lineage,  village,  or  nomadic  band.  The 
unit  functions  as  the  primary  element  in  any  concerted  group 


129 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

action.  The  two  most  frequent  referents  of  the  concept  are 
household  and  village  community;  every  sedentary  (i.e.,  non- 
nomadic)  villager  in  the  Anatolian  countryside  belongs  to  at 
least  these  two  groups.  Consequently,  household  and  village 
are  what  the  Anatolian  Turk  means  by  aile. 

The  household  provides  the  framework  for  the  most  inti- 
mate and  emotionally  important  social  relations,  as  well  as  for 
most  economic  activities.  The  activities  of  the  household,  then, 
form  the  nucleus  of  village  economic  and  social  life.  House- 
hold members  are  expected  to  work  the  household's  fields 
cooperatively  and  reap  the  harvests  that  sustain  its  life.  Because 
household  members  share  an  identity  in  the  eyes  of  the  village 
at  large,  every  member  is  responsible  for  the  actions  of  any 
other  member.  Wider  kinship  ties  of  the  extended  patrilineal 
family  are  also  important. 

Because  of  the  pervasiveness  and  significance  of  kinship 
groups  and  relationships  defined  on  the  basis  of  kinship,  nonk- 
inship  groups  in  Anatolian  villages  tend  to  be  few  in  number 
and  vague  in  their  criteria  for  membership.  Generally,  three 
kinds  of  voluntary  associations  can  be  found  in  Anatolian  vil- 
lages: religious  associations  and  brotherhoods  headed  by  der- 
vishes, local  units  of  the  main  political  parties,  and  gossip 
groups  that  meet  in  the  guest  rooms  (misafir  odasi)  of  well-to-do 
villagers. 

Prior  to  the  1950s,  most  Anatolian  villagers  owned  the  land 
they  farmed,  and  within  individual  villages  there  were  relatively 
small  differences  in  wealth.  Three  criteria  influenced  social 
rank:  ascribed  characteristics  such  as  age,  sex,  and  the  position 
of  a  person  in  his  or  her  own  household,  lineage,  and  kinship 
network;  economic  status  as  indicated  by  landholding,  occupa- 
tion, and  income;  and  moral  stature  as  demonstrated  by  piety, 
religious  learning,  and  moral  respectability.  However,  by  1995 
absentee  landlordism  and  large  landholdings  had  become 
common,  and  wealth  alone  tended  to  be  the  determining  fac- 
tor in  ascribing  social  status.  Thus,  resident  large  landowners 
often  dominated  the  political,  economic,  and  social  life  of  the 
villages. 

The  relationship  of  wealth  to  influence  and  social  rank  is 
illustrated  by  the  institution  of  the  guest  room.  It  is  estimated 
that  only  10  percent  of  homes  in  Anatolian  villages  have  guest 
rooms  because  they  are  very  expensive  to  maintain.  Village 
men  gather  most  evenings  in  guest  rooms  and  spend  much  of 
their  time  there  during  the  winter  months.  Regular  attendance 


130 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


at  a  particular  guest  room  implies  political  and  social  support 
of  its  owner  because,  by  accepting  his  hospitality,  a  villager 
places  himself  in  the  owner's  debt  and  acknowledges  his  supe- 
rior status. 

Every  village  in  Anatolia,  as  well  as  elsewhere  in  Turkey,  has 
an  official  representative  of  the  central  government,  the  head- 
man (muhtar),  who  is  responsible  to  Ankara  and  the  provincial 
administrators.  The  headman  is  elected  every  two  years  by  vil- 
lagers (see  Provincial  and  Local  Government,  ch.  4).  The  posi- 
tion generally  is  not  considered  a  prestigious  one  because  most 
villagers  distrust  the  government.  Thus,  in  Anatolia,  it  is  not 
unusual  to  find  relatively  young  men  serving  as  village  head- 
men. 

Coastal  Villages 

Unlike  the  traditionally  isolated  villages  of  Anatolia,  villages 
in  European  Turkey  and  along  the  Black  Sea  and  Aegean  Sea, 
and  to  a  lesser  degree  along  the  Mediterranean  Sea,  have  been 
exposed  to  urban  influences  for  several  generations.  Agricul- 
ture tends  to  be  specialized  and  is  generally  undertaken  in 
association  with  fishing  and  lumber  production.  Economic 
links  with  market  towns  historically  have  been  very  important. 
Although  the  extended  family  plays  a  significant  role  through- 
out a  villager's  life,  economic  considerations  rather  than  kin- 
ship tend  to  shape  social  relations.  The  commercial  nature  of 
these  villages  has  resulted  in  the  substitution  of  nonkinship 
roles — such  as  employer  and  employee,  buyer  and  seller,  and 
landlord  and  tenant — for  most  interactions  outside  the  home. 

In  coastal  villages,  the  elite  is  primarily  a  landed  group. 
Large  landowners,  by  providing  employment  and — to  a  lesser 
degree — land  to  their  laborers  and  tenants,  and  by  serving  as 
an  economic  link  between  the  village  and  urban  markets, 
acquire  influence  and  power.  Their  personal  contact  with  the 
laborers  and  tenants  on  their  lands,  however,  has  lessened 
since  the  1950s.  By  the  1990s,  urban  businesspeople  with  both 
the  resources  and  the  inclination  to  serve  as  middlemen 
between  village  production  and  city  markets  generally  wielded 
as  much  influence  as  local  large  landowners.  Businesspeople's 
influence  continues  to  expand  as  a  result  of  increasing  crop 
specialization  and  market  dependency. 

Villages  in  the  South  and  East 

The  villages  of  southeastern  Turkey  are  predominantly  Arab 


131 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

and  Kurdish.  Tribal  organization — the  grouping  of  several 
patrilineages  claiming  a  common  historical  ancestor — remains 
important  in  some  Kurdish  villages.  However,  the  political 
autonomy  once  enjoyed  by  tribal  leaders  was  usurped  by  the 
central  government  during  the  1920s  and  1930s.  Tribal  leaders 
who  retain  local  influence  do  so  because  they  are  large  land- 
owners. Large  landholdings  are  typical  of  the  region.  In  most 
villages,  one  or  two  families  own  most  of  the  arable  land  and 
pasturage;  the  remainder  is  divided  into  small  plots  owned  by 
several  families.  Most  of  the  small  landowners  have  holdings  fit 
only  for  subsistence  agriculture.  From  10  to  50  percent  of  all 
families  may  be  landless.  Villagers  who  do  not  own  land  work  as 
agricultural  laborers  or  herders  for  the  large  landlords.  The 
poverty  of  most  villagers  compels  them  to  enter  into  depen- 
dent economic,  political,  and  social  relations  with  the  wealthier 
landlords. 

The  fighting  between  the  PKK  and  the  government  in  south- 
eastern Turkey  since  1984  has  disrupted  life  in  many  villages. 
About  850  Kurdish  villages  have  been  uprooted  by  the  govern- 
ment and  their  inhabitants  forcibly  removed  to  western  Anato- 
lia. Thousands  of  other  villagers  have  migrated  to  cities  to 
escape  the  incessant  fighting.  The  migrants  have  included  all 
types  of  villagers:  the  landless,  small  landowners,  and  large 
landlords.  The  long-term  effects  of  these  changes  were  difficult 
to  assess  in  the  mid-1990s. 

The  Individual,  the  Family,  and  Gender  Relations 

Prior  to  the  establishment  of  the  republic,  matters  of  per- 
sonal status,  including  marriage,  divorce,  and  inheritance, 
were  regulated  by  Islamic  law  and  influenced  by  cultural  cus- 
toms that  had  evolved  during  several  centuries  of  Ottoman 
rule.  Atatiirk  and  his  associates  regarded  both  religious  rules 
and  traditional  cultural  practices  as  hindrances  to  the  creation 
of  their  shared  vision  of  a  modern  society.  In  fact,  their  societal 
ideal  for  Turkey  was  the  pattern  of  personal  and  family  rela- 
tions that  prevailed  among  the  educated  upper  classes  of 
Europe  during  the  1920s  and  1930s.  Consequently,  many  poli- 
cies enacted  during  the  early  republican  period  were  designed 
explicitly  to  remold  Turkish  society  according  to  an  urban 
European  model.  One  of  the  most  significant  measures  on 
behalf  of  this  goal  was  the  abolition  of  Islamic  law.  In  1926  a 
new  civil  code  derived  from  Swiss  civil  laws  replaced  the  reli- 
gious legal  system.  The  disestablishment  of  Islam  as  the  state 


132 


A  dervish  whirling  to  induce 
a  trance  for  prayer 
Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


religion  and  other  measures  aimed  at  religion  reduced  the 
influence  of  Islam  in  life-cycle  rituals. 

The  social  changes  induced  by  state  policies  after  1923  failed 
to  create  a  new  Turkish  culture.  Instead,  at  least  two  distinct 
cultures  had  emerged  in  Turkey  by  the  1950s.  One  was  an  elite 
culture  characterized  by  secular  values  and  patterns  of  family 
and  gender  relationships  similar  to  those  found  in  much  of 
urban,  middle-class  Europe.  The  majority  popular  culture,  in 
contrast,  was  influenced  by  a  melange  of  secular  ideas  learned 
in  the  compulsory  state  education  system  (through  middle 
school),  religious  values  learned  within  the  family  and  from 
community  organizations  such  as  the  mosques,  and  traditional 
views  about  the  appropriate  public  role  of  the  sexes. 

Marriage 

As  part  of  their  rejection  of  the  symbols  of  Islam,  Atatiirk 
and  his  associates  outlawed  traditional  marriage  practices.  The 
1926  civil  code  mandated  that  all  marriages  be  registered  with 
civil  authorities.  Marriages  contracted  before  a  member  of  the 
religious  establishment  henceforth  were  not  recognized  as  law- 
ful unions,  and  the  children  of  such  unions  were  considered 
illegitimate.  The  male  prerogative  to  have  up  to  four  wives 
simultaneously,  enshrined  in  Islamic  law,  was  prohibited.  Mar- 


133 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

riage  between  a  Muslim  woman  and  a  non-Muslim  man,  a  prac- 
tice forbidden  under  Islamic  law,  became  legal. 

Traditionally,  marriage  has  been — and  frequently  continues 
to  be — a  contract  negotiated  and  executed  by  the  families  of 
the  betrothed  and  blessed  by  a  member  of  the  religious  estab- 
lishment. Representatives  of  the  bride  and  groom  negotiate 
the  contract,  which  stipulates  such  terms  as  the  size  and  nature 
of  the  bride-price  paid  by  the  family  of  the  groom  to  the  family 
of  the  bride  and  whatever  conditions  of  conjugal  life  are  mutu- 
ally agreeable.  After  a  series  of  meetings  between  the  two  fami- 
lies, an  exchange  of  gifts,  and  the  display  of  the  trousseau,  the 
marriage  is  formalized  at  a  ceremony  presided  over  by  a  reli- 
gious official.  The  civil  code  requires  only  that  the  bride  and 
groom,  as  individuals,  swear  vows  before  two  witnesses  and  a 
representative  of  the  state  who  registers  the  union.  Despite  the 
legal  necessity  for  civil  marriage,  traditional  courtship  and  mar- 
riage practices  persist.  Many  couples,  especially  among  the 
lower  classes  in  cities  and  in  rural  areas,  hold  two  ceremonies,  a 
religious  one  to  satisfy  their  families  and  a  civil  one  to  entitle 
them  to  government  social  benefits,  as  well  as  to  confer  legiti- 
macy on  future  children. 

Despite  government  attempts  to  outlaw  the  bride-price,  dur- 
ing the  1990s  this  traditional  prenuptial  practice  has  continued 
in  both  urban  and  rural  areas.  The  payment  of  the  bride-price 
involves  considerable  expenditures  and  often  requires  finan- 
cial cooperation  from  a  number  of  kinfolk.  The  exact  amount 
and  the  terms  of  payment  form  a  part  of  the  premarital  negoti- 
ations. For  example,  the  families  sometimes  agree  to  postpone 
payment  of  the  full  bride-price  until  after  the  wedding,  stipulat- 
ing that  the  full  amount  must  be  paid  in  the  event  of  divorce,  a 
practice  that  provides  some  protection  for  the  bride  if  the 
match  subsequently  proves  incompatible.  Ordinarily  the 
amount  of  the  bride-price  is  directly  related  to  the  status  of  the 
families  involved.  However,  the  amount  tends  to  be  less  if  the 
two  families  have  a  close  blood  relationship.  For  these  reasons, 
among,  others,  most  rural  and  urban  families  continue  to  pre- 
fer that  their  children  marry  closely  related  kin — first  or  sec- 
ond cousins. 

Divorce  also  is  affected  by  the  civil  code.  Under  Islamic  law,  a 
man  can  initiate  divorce  easily  and  is  not  required  to  cite  any 
reasons;  the  grounds  on  which  a  woman  can  seek  divorce,  how- 
ever, are  tightly  restricted,  and  she  is  obligated  to  prove  fault 
on  her  husband's  part.  Under  the  civil  code,  divorce,  like  mar- 


134 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


riage,  is  not  recognized  as  legitimate  unless  registered  with  civil 
authorities.  The  code  permits  either  partner  to  initiate  divorce 
proceedings,  but  the  state,  which  claims  an  interest  in  main- 
taining marriage  unions,  especially  in  cases  involving  children, 
decides  whether  to  grant  a  request  for  divorce. 

The  Extended  Family 

Although  a  majority  of  households  in  Turkey  are  nuclear 
family  units,  the  larger  extended  family  continues  to  play  an 
important  social  role  in  the  lives  of  most  individuals.  The 
extended  family  always  includes  all  relatives  by  blood  or  mar- 
riage through  an  individual's  paternal  grandfather,  or  some- 
times, great-grandfather.  In  addition,  many  individuals, 
especially  those  of  middle-class  and  elite  social  status,  consider 
the  parents  and  siblings  of  their  own  mother  to  be  part  of  the 
extended  family.  In  general,  the  extended  family  functions  as 
pn  emotional  support  network  during  life-cycle  events  such  as 
birth,  marriage,  and  death,  or  during  major  family  crises.  It 
often  functions  as  an  economic  support  network  by  providing 
loans  for  exceptional  personal  expenses,  finding  employment 
for  new  graduates,  and  caring  for  indigent  members  who  are 
elderly  or  disabled.  In  urban  areas,  the  extended  family — espe- 
cially fathers  and  sons  or  two  or  more  brothers — can  serve  as  a 
means  for  the  formation  of  business  partnerships.  In  rural 
areas,  members  of  an  extended  family  may  work  together  to 
farm  large  acreages  or  raise  large  herds  of  sheep. 

By  expressing  approval  or  disapproval  of  its  members'  social 
behavior,  the  extended  family  also  functions  as  an  effective 
mechanism  of  social  control.  Every  individual  is  expected  to 
comport  himself  or  herself  in  ways  that  do  not  bring  dishonor 
to  the  family.  There  are  many  types  of  behavior  that  might 
bring  shame  to  a  family,  but  sexual  promiscuity,  especially 
among  women,  is  considered  the  most  serious  offense.  Regard- 
less of  class,  women  are  expected  to  avoid  any  activity  that 
might  raise  suspicions  about  their  sexual  conduct.  Thus, 
unmarried  females  are  expected  to  abstain  from  all  sexual 
activity  before  marriage,  and  married  women  are  expected  to 
remain  faithful  to  their  husbands.  Female  adultery  carries 
heavy  social  sanctions;  among  the  lower  classes  in  cities  and  in 
villages,  it  still  is  socially — albeit  not  legally — acceptable  for  a 
betrayed  husband  to  redeem  his  family's  honor  by  killing  his 
adulterous  wife. 


135 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

The  unequal  burden  placed  upon  women  to  uphold  family 
honor  highlights  the  ambiguous  role  of  women  in  society.  Offi- 
cial state  ideology  extols  the  equality  of  men  and  women.  Intel- 
lectually, men  tend  to  accept  women  as  equals,  and  elite 
women  have  been  able  to  achieve  high  positions  in  profes- 
sional careers  since  the  1960s.  Since  the  mid-1980s,  women  also 
have  been  active  in  politics;  one,  Tansu  filler,  became  prime 
minister  in  1993.  Nevertheless,  men  traditionally  view  women 
as  emotionally  and  physically  inferior  and  thus  in  need  of  male 
protection,  which  in  practice  means  male  control.  Both  men 
and  women  traditionally  have  judged  a  woman's  social  status 
not  on  the  basis  of  her  personal  accomplishments  but  by  the 
number  of  sons  she  has  borne.  Thus,  women — like  their  hus- 
bands— customarily  have  prized  boys  over  girls.  Mothers  have 
tended  to  socialize  their  sons  and  daughters  differently,  rearing 
boys  to  be  assertive  and  girls  to  be  obedient  and  passive.  The 
relationship  between  a  mother  and  a  son  tends  to  be  warm  and 
intimate  throughout  life. 

The  traditional  status  of  women  continues  to  be  established 
during  the  early  years  of  marriage  for  most  lower-middle-class 
and  lower-class  women.  Within  the  extended  family,  a  new 
bride  tends  to  be  under  the  critical  surveillance  of  her  hus- 
band's relatives,  especially  his  mother.  Whether  the  new  couple 
lives  in  a  separate  household — this  often  is  a  requirement  of 
the  bride-price — or  resides  temporarily  in  the  home  of  the 
groom's  parents,  the  bride  is  isolated  from  her  own  family  and 
friends  and  is  expected  to  learn  from  her  mother-in-law  how  to 
care  for  her  husband.  Her  situation  is  recognized  in  the  lan- 
guage: the  expression  gelinlik  etmek,  used  to  refer  to  the  status  of 
a  new  bride,  means  to  be  "on  call."  Although  a  bride  may  estab- 
lish a  close  personal  relationship  with  her  mother-in-law,  espe- 
cially if  the  latter  is  also  her  aunt,  friction  and  tension  are  more 
common.  In  such  cases,  the  mother-in-law  expects  her  son  to 
side  with  her  against  his  wife.  A  new  bride  only  gains  status  and 
security  within  a  traditional  extended  family  after  she  has  pro- 
duced a  son. 

The  status  of  a  wife  changes  as  she  matures  because  within 
all  extended  families,  whether  traditional  or  modern,  consider- 
able respect  is  accorded  to  age.  Younger  family  members  are 
expected  to  show  respect  toward  their  elders  regardless  of  their 
gender.  Respect  has  many  dimensions,  but  usually  it  means  not 
speaking  in  the  presence  of  one's  elders  unless  requested,  and 
refraining  in  their  presence  from  arguing,  smoking,  or  behav- 


136 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


ing  in  a  casual  way.  Thus,  a  woman  whose  children  are  nearly 
grown  is  accorded  respect  and  does  not  expect  to  be  harassed 
by  her  mother-in-law.  The  authority  of  a  mature  wife  and  her 
opinions  in  family  matters  are  important.  If  she  also  has 
employment  outside  the  home,  her  influence  increases.  The 
migration  of  husbands  to  cities  or  foreign  countries  in  search 
of  work  also  changes  the  role  of  married  women  within  fami- 
lies. Left  at  home  to  rear  the  children  on  remittances  sent  by 
her  spouse,  the  wife  often  is  forced  to  assume  many  of  the  daily 
decision-making  roles  previously  filled  by  her  husband.  In  addi- 
tion, since  the  late  1960s,  thousands  of  migrant  workers  have 
sent  for  their  wives  and  children  to  join  them  in  the  foreign 
countries  where  they  are  employed.  These  prolonged  resi- 
dences abroad  have  tended  to  alter  traditional  extended-family 
relationships. 

Gender  Relations 

Male-female  relations  remain  an  area  of  some  tension  in 
Turkish  society.  The  conflict  between  traditional  and  modern 
values  and  between  patterns  of  socialization  within  the  family 
and  at  school  affect  the  social  relationships  that  both  men  and 
women  establish.  Even  among  modernized  urban  dwellers, 
family  loyalty,  family  obligations,  and  family  honor  remain 
strong  considerations.  Thus,  even  though  Turks  professing  to 
have  modern  values  may  define  the  "ideal"  family  as  one  in 
which  equality  exists  between  spouses,  wives  who  actually 
attempt  to  establish  themselves  as  equal  partners  usually  meet 
with  resistance  from  their  husbands.  Among  more  traditional 
families,  both  men  and  women  generally  expect  husbands  to 
be  dominant,  especially  with  respect  to  matters  involving 
household  interactions  with  the  public;  wives  are  expected  to 
be  obedient.  Even  in  traditional  families,  however,  wives  may 
not  accept  passive  roles,  and  their  efforts  to  assert  themselves 
can  come  up  against  strong  disapproval. 

The  conflicting  tensions  of  traditional  and  modern  values 
also  influence  social  relations  outside  the  family.  The  mass 
media  and  modern  education  popularize  ideas  such  as  social 
equality,  openness  between  spouses,  romantic  love,  and  pla- 
tonic  friendships  between  the  sexes,  concepts  that  men  and 
women  with  traditional  values  find  objectionable  but  that  their 
adolescent  children  may  find  appealing.  Furthermore,  whereas 
some  young  women  have  been  readopting  headscarves  and 
modest  dress  to  demonstrate  their  commitment  to  Islam,  oth- 


137 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

ers  have  been  attracted  to  the  latest  Western  fashions  in  clothes 
and  cosmetics,  which  traditionalists  perceive  as  evidence  of  a 
general  decline  in  female  morality. 

Men  and  women  generally  constitute  largely  separate  subso- 
cieties,  each  with  its  own  values,  attitudes,  and  perceptions  of 
the  other.  Even  among  modernized  urbanites,  gender  roles 
constrain  social  relations.  For  example,  friendships  between 
men  and  women  who  are  unrelated  generally  are  not  accept- 
able. Among  elite  youth,  men  and  women  do  meet  socially  and 
dating  is  fashionable,  but  parents  try  to  monitor  such  relation- 
ships and  discourage  their  daughters  from  becoming  involved 
with  any  man  unless  marriage  is  contemplated.  Among  more 
traditional  families,  dating  would  ruin  the  reputation  of  a 
young  woman  and  dishonor  her  family. 

The  Status  of  Women 

Traditional  views  of  gender  roles  and  relations  have  per- 
sisted in  tandem  with  changes  in  the  status  of  women  both 
within  and  outside  the  family.  These  changes  began  during  the 
latter  years  of  the  Ottoman  Empire,  when  women  were  given 
opportunities  to  work  as  teachers,  clerks,  and  industrial  work- 
ers. Change  accelerated  during  the  early  republican  era.  The 
1926  civil  code  granted  women  unprecedented  legal  rights, 
and  in  1934  they  received  the  right  to  vote  and  to  stand  for 
election.  Since  the  1950s,  their  participation  in  the  labor  force, 
the  professions,  and  in  politics  has  increased  steadily  but 
unevenly.  By  1991  women  made  up  18  percent  of  the  total 
urban  labor  force.  But  not  all  changes  have  resulted  in 
improved  conditions.  In  some  instances,  especially  among 
rural  and  newly  urbanized  women,  changes  have  disturbed  a 
traditional  order  that  has  provided  meaningful,  guaranteed 
roles  for  women  without  introducing  new  ones. 

During  the  1950s,  rural  women  who  migrated  to  the  urban 
gecekondus  generally  found  work  as  maids  in  private  homes. 
Since  the  1960s,  employment  opportunities  for  women  in 
industry,  especially  light  manufacturing,  have  been  expanding. 
By  1991,  the  most  recent  year  for  which  detailed  statistics  are 
available,  almost  20  percent  of  employees  in  manufacturing 
were  women.  Nevertheless,  a  majority  of  women  in  the  gecekon- 
dus do  not  work  outside  the  home.  Most  urban  working-class 
women  are  single  and  hold  jobs  for  less  than  five  years;  they 
tend  to  leave  paid  employment  when  they  get  married.  While 


138 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


working  and  contributing  to  family  income,  women  enjoy 
enhanced  status  and  respect. 

Urban  middle-class  and  upper-middle-class  women  tend  to 
have  more  education  than  working-class  women  and  generally 
are  employed  in  teaching,  health  care,  and  clerical  work.  Since 
1980  more  than  one-third  of  all  bank  clerks  have  been  women. 
Upper-class  women  tend  to  work  in  the  prestigious  professions, 
such  as  law,  medicine,  and  university  teaching.  On  average 
about  18  percent  of  all  professionals  in  Turkey  were  women  in 
1991;  they  were  concentrated  in  Ankara,  Istanbul,  Izmir,  and  a 
few  other  large  urban  centers. 

In  1995  the  status  of  women  in  Turkey  remained  a  multifac- 
eted,  complex  issue.  Although  the  government  guarantees 
women  equal  work  and  pay  opportunities,  the  traditional  value 
system  elevates  gender  segregation  in  the  workplace  and  other 
public  spaces  as  a  social  ideal.  Even  urban,  educated,  profes- 
sional women  may  encounter  the  persistence  of  traditional, 
religiously  colored  values  about  gender  roles  among  their  puta- 
tively  modern,  secular  husbands. 

Education 

The  contemporary  Turkish  education  system  was  established 
in  1924  after  Atatiirk  closed  the  religious  schools,  set  up  new 
secular  schools,  and  made  elementary  school  attendance  com- 
pulsory. It  was  many  years  before  the  country  had  the  educa- 
tional infrastructure  to  provide  universal  primary  education, 
but  since  the  early  1980s  almost  all  children  between  the  ages 
of  six  and  ten  have  been  enrolled  in  school.  The  most  recent 
data  on  literacy  (1990)  put  Turkey's  overall  adult  literacy  rate 
around  81  percent.  This  statistic  broke  down  as  90  percent  lit- 
eracy among  males  aged  fifteen  and  over,  and  71  percent 
among  females  in  that  age-group. 

The  public  education  system  provides  for  five  stages  of  edu- 
cation: preschool,  primary  school,  middle  school,  high  school, 
and  university.  Noncompulsory  preschool  programs  estab- 
lished in  1953  offer  education  to  children  between  the  ages  of 
four  and  six.  The  demand  for  preschool  education  has  been 
limited,  apparently  because  of  parents'  unwillingness  to  entrust 
the  education  of  small  children  to  institutions  outside  the  fam- 
ily. Preschool  programs  are  most  common  in  large  cities, 
where,  since  the  1980s,  they  have  been  increasing  in  popularity 
and  in  numbers.  Primary  education  is  coeducational  as  well  as 
compulsory,  and  encompasses  a  five-year  program  for  ages  six 


139 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

to  eleven.  Attendance  at  the  country's  estimated  46,000  pri- 
mary schools  was  reckoned  at  97  percent  for  the  1994-95 
school  year.  Education  officials  believe  school  attendance  is 
lower  in  villages  than  in  urban  areas  because  it  is  easier  for  par- 
ents to  keep  older  children,  especially  girls,  at  home. 

The  two-year  middle-school  program,  for  ages  twelve  to  four- 
teen, also  is  coeducational  and  has  been  compulsory  since 
1972.  However,  authorities  generally  do  not  enforce  middle- 
school  attendance,  especially  in  rural  areas,  where  middle 
schools  are  few  in  number  and  most  students  must  travel  long 
distances  to  attend.  The  Ministry  of  National  Education  does 
not  publish  data  on  middle-school  attendance,  but  overall  it 
probably  does  not  exceed  60  percent  of  the  relevant  age-group. 
To  encourage  higher  levels  of  attendance,  a  1983  law  prohib- 
ited the  employment  of  youths  younger  than  fourteen.  Middle- 
school  graduation  is  a  prerequisite  to  access  to  general,  voca- 
tional, and  technical  high  schools,  and  is  deemed  advanta- 
geous for  admission  to  many  vocational  training  programs. 

Secondary  school  education  is  not  compulsory  but  is  free  at 
all  of  the  country's  estimated  1,300  public  high  schools.  The 
Ministry  of  National  Education  supervises  the  high  schools, 
which  are  divided  into  lycee  (general)  and  vocational  schools. 
The  lycees  are  coeducational  and  offer  three-year  college  pre- 
paratory programs.  A  select  number  of  lycees  in  the  largest  cit- 
ies are  bilingual,  teaching  classes  in  Turkish  and  either  English, 
French,  or  German.  Twelve  lycees  are  open  to  students  from 
the  three  legally  recognized  minorities — Armenians,  Greeks, 
and  Jews — and  teach  classes  on  some  subjects  in  Armenian  or 
Greek.  In  contrast,  many  of  the  vocational  high  schools  offer 
four-year  programs.  Vocational  high  schools  include  technical 
training  schools  for  men;  domestic  science  schools  for  women; 
teacher-training  schools;  auxiliary  health  care,  commercial, 
and  agricultural  schools;  Muslim  teacher-training  schools;  and 
other  specialized  institutions.  The  Muslim  teacher-training 
schools,  called  imam  hatip  okullari,  have  expanded  dramatically 
since  the  late  1970s.  During  the  early  1990s,  they  numbered 
about  350  and  enrolled  10  percent  of  all  high  school  students. 
Except  for  the  emphasis  on  religious  subjects,  the  curriculum 
of  the  imam  hatip  okullari  resembles  that  of  the  lycees  rather 
than  the  vocational  schools. 

Higher  education  is  available  at  several  hundred  institutions, 
including  professional  schools  and  academies,  institutes,  and 
conservatories,  but  primarily  at  the  twenty-seven  public  univer- 


140 


Istanbul  University 
Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


sides,  which  enrolled  more  than  450,000  students  in  1993-94. 
In  the  mid-1980s,  when  Ozal  was  prime  minister,  his  govern- 
ment authorized  Turkey's  first  private  university,  Bilkent,  in 
Ankara.  The  university  law  of  1946  granted  academic  auton- 
omy to  Turkey's  universities.  However,  government  policies 
since  the  1980  coup,  especially  a  1981  law  on  higher  education, 
have  institutionalized  extensive  government  interference  in 
university  affairs.  The  military  leaders  believed  that  the  univer- 
sities had  been  the  center  of  political  ideas  they  disliked  and 
perceived  as  harmful  to  Turkey's  stability.  They  thus  sought 
through  the  1981  higher  education  law  and  applicable  provi- 
sions of  the  1982  constitution  to  introduce  both  structural  and 
curricular  changes  at  the  universities.  For  example,  the  consti- 
tution stipulates  that  the  president  of  the  republic  may  appoint 
university  rectors,  establishes  the  government's  right  to  found 
new  universities,  and  assigns  duties  to  the  Council  of  Higher 


141 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Education  ( Yuksek  Ogretim  Kurumu — YOK) .  The  higher  edu- 
cation law  prohibits  all  teachers  and  matriculated  students 
from  belonging  to  or  working  for  a  political  party  and  requires 
curricular  standardization  at  all  universities. 

The  YOK  consists  of  twenty-five  members,  of  whom  eight  are 
appointed  directly  by  the  president,  eight  by  the  Interuniversity 
Council,  six  by  the  Council  of  Ministers,  two  by  the  Ministry  of 
National  Education,  and  one  by  the  General  Staff  of  the  armed 
forces.  The  chair  of  the  YOK  is  appointed  by  the  president  of 
the  republic.  The  YOK's  powers  include  recommending  or 
appointing  rectors,  deans,  and  professors;  selecting  and  assign- 
ing students;  and  planning  new  universities.  The  YOK  also  has 
authority  to  transfer  faculty  members  from  one  university  to 
another.  The  YOK  effectively  has  reduced  the  faculty  senates, 
which  prior  to  1980  had  authority  to  enact  academic  regula- 
tions, to  mere  advisory  bodies. 

Education  has  continued  to  serve  as  an  important  means  of 
upward  social  mobility.  Annually  since  at  least  1975,  the  num- 
ber of  students  applying  for  university  admission  has  exceeded 
the  number  of  available  spaces.  To  qualify  for  admission,  every 
applicant  must  pass  the  nationwide  university  entrance  exam, 
which  is  designed,  administered,  and  evaluated  by  the  Center 
for  Selection  and  Placement  of  Students.  During  the  early 
1990s,  more  than  100,000  applicants  sat  for  the  entrance  exam 
each  year.  Scoring  is  based  on  a  complicated  system  that 
assures  that  the  number  who  pass  does  not  exceed  the  number 
of  available  spaces.  Even  if  an  applicant  qualifies  for  admission, 
the  individual's  actual  score  determines  whether  he  or  she  may 
study  a  chosen  discipline  or  must  take  up  a  less  preferred  one. 

In  addition  to  the  five  levels  of  education  described  above, 
the  system  provides  special  education  for  some  children  with 
disabilities,  as  well  as  a  wide  range  of  adult  education  and  voca- 
tional programs.  Labor  specialists  consistently  have  cited  inade- 
quate skills  as  a  key  factor  in  Turkey's  high  level  of 
unemployment,  which  during  the  early  1990s  averaged  10  per- 
cent annually.  In  1995  half  of  the  urban  unemployed  had  only 
a  primary  education,  and  an  estimated  40  percent  of  pupils 
dropped  out  of  school  upon  completing  this  level  of  education. 
Since  1980  the  Ministry  of  National  Education  has  conducted 
major  literacy  campaigns  aimed  at  the  population  between 
ages  fourteen  and  forty-four,  with  emphasis  on  women,  resi- 
dents of  the  urban  gecekondus,  and  agricultural  workers.  The 
ministry  also  has  provided  primary,  middle  school,  and  second- 


142 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


ary  equivalency  program  courses  to  upgrade  education  levels. 
In  addition,  through  its  Directorate  of  Apprenticeship  and 
Nonformal  Education,  the  ministry  provides  nonformal  voca- 
tional training  to  people  lacking  required  skills,  such  as  school 
dropouts,  seasonal  agricultural  workers,  and  people  in  the 
urban  informal  sector. 

The  World  Bank  (see  Glossary),  which  has  provided  funds 
for  industrial  training  programs  since  the  early  1970s,  has  been 
a  major  source  of  support  for  nonformal  vocational  training 
programs.  These  programs  are  intended  to  provide  skilled  per- 
sonnel above  and  beyond  the  supply  from  the  formal  voca- 
tional education  system,  which  was  projected  to  meet  86 
percent  of  the  estimated  industrial  demand  for  skilled  and 
semiskilled  workers  through  1995.  Government  plans  have  pro- 
vided for  a  major  expansion  of  the  nonformal  vocational  train- 
ing system;  650,000  additional  people  are  expected  to  receive 
training  in  employment-related  trades,  including  150,000  to  be 
trained  in  industrial  skills  during  1994  and  1995.  Although  the 
government  program  was  expected  to  improve  the  quality  and 
availability  of  skill  education  in  less-developed  regions  such  as 
eastern  Turkey,  the  intense  fighting  there  since  1991  has  dis- 
rupted training. 

Health  and  Welfare 

Health  care  and  related  social  welfare  activities  in  the  1990s 
remain  the  responsibility  of  the  Ministry  of  Health.  Legislation 
has  directed  and  authorized  the  ministry  to  provide  medical 
care  and  preventive  health  services,  train  health  personnel, 
make  preservice  and  in-service  training  available,  establish  and 
operate  hospitals  and  other  health  care  centers,  supervise  pri- 
vate health  facilities,  regulate  the  price  of  medical  drugs,  and 
control  drug  production  and  all  pharmacies.  In  addition,  the 
ministry  supervises  all  medical  and  health  care  personnel  in 
the  public  sector. 

Availability  of  health  care  in  the  mid-1990s  is  significantly 
better  than  it  was  twenty  years  earlier,  but  its  quality  remains 
uneven.  Medical  facilities  are  concentrated  in  the  cities  and 
larger  towns,  leaving  most  rural  areas  without  adequate  access 
to  medical  care.  This  situation  is  especially  acute  in  eastern 
Anatolia,  where  medical  care  is  generally  available  only  in  the 
provincial  capitals.  The  salaries  paid  to  state-employed  physi- 
cians are  low  compared  with  what  doctors  in  private  practice 


143 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

earn.  Consequently,  most  Turkish  physicians  prefer  to  work  in 
the  more  highly  developed  urban  centers  or  even  to  emigrate. 

The  overall  ratio  of  inhabitants  to  physicians  has  continued 
to  improve  significantly.  Whereas  there  was  one  physician  for 
every  2,860  individuals  in  1965,  that  ratio  improved  to  one  to 
1,755  in  1976,  one  to  1,391  in  1985,  and  an  estimated  one  to 
1,200  in  1995.  From  1977  to  1995,  the  number  of  all  health 
care  facilities — hospitals,  health  centers,  clinics,  and  dispensa- 
ries— rose  from  7,944  to  12,500.  Simultaneously,  the  number  of 
available  hospital  beds  increased  even  more  rapidly  than  the 
rate  of  population  growth;  the  ratio  was  one  bed  per  400  citi- 
zens in  1995. 

Turkey  has  achieved  progress  in  controlling  various  debilitat- 
ing and  crippling  diseases  and  in  treating  major  infectious  dis- 
eases. The  incidence  of  measles,  pertussis,  typhoid  fever,  and 
diphtheria  all  declined  dramatically  between  1969  and  1994. 
The  greater  availability  of  potable  water  in  both  urban  and 
rural  areas  has  contributed  to  a  general  fall  in  the  former  prev- 
alence of  water-borne  illnesses,  especially  of  diarrhea  among 
children  and  infants.  Infant  mortality,  which  at  120  per  1,000 
live  births  in  1980  was  among  the  highest  rates  worldwide,  had 
declined  to  fifty-five  per  1,000  live  births  by  1992.  Nevertheless, 
this  rate  was  still  very  high  by  European  standards,  being  six 
times  the  rate  of  neighboring  Greece,  which  had  an  infant 
mortality  rate  of  nine  per  1,000  live  births. 

Turkey  had  reported  sixteen  cases  of  acquired  immune  defi- 
ciency syndrome  (AIDS)  to  the  World  Health  Organization  in 
the  first  nine  months  of  1994.  The  rate  of  AIDS  cases  per 
100,000  population  was  0.1  for  both  1992  and  1993,  with 
twenty-nine  cases  reported  in  1992  and  thirty  in  1993. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  most  important  underwriters  of  social 
security  plans  were  the  Government  Employees'  Retirement 
Fund,  the  Social  Insurance  Institution,  and  the  Social  Insur- 
ance Institution  for  the  Self-Employed.  In  1995  at  least  15  per- 
cent of  the  working  population  participated  in  the  social 
welfare  system.  If  the  agricultural  sector  is  excluded,  this  per- 
centage rises  to  40  percent.  Less  than  1  percent  of  agricultural 
workers  were  part  of  the  social  security  system  in  1995,  but  the 
government  has  made  efforts  for  at  least  a  decade  to  increase 
their  participation.  Employers  pay  insurance  premiums  to 
cover  work-related  injuries,  occupational  diseases,  and  mater- 
nity leave.  Both  employers  and  employees  contribute  specified 
proportions  to  cover  premiums  for  illness,  disability,  retire- 


144 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


ment,  and  death  benefits.  Thus,  in  these  and  other  instances, 
Turkey  is  moving  toward  a  more  Westernized  approach  to 
socioeconomic,  educational,  and  health  matters,  and  is  seeking 
to  lay  a  firmer  basis  for  participation  in  the  EU. 

*         *  * 

Feroz  Ahmad' s  The  Making  of  Modern  Turkey  includes  a 
detailed  analysis  of  Ataturk's  secularist  and  linguistic  reforms, 
as  well  as  an  excellent  overview  of  the  impact  of  social  changes 
from  the  1930s  to  the  end  of  the  1980s.  With  the  exception  of 
the  Kurds,  studies  on  the  experience  of  Turkey's  ethnic  and 
religious  minorities  have  not  been  published  for  more  than 
two  decades.  Martin  van  Bruinessen  has  written  extensively 
about  the  social  and  economic  conditions  of  Turkey's  Kurds. 
His  book  Agha,  Shaikh,  and  State  analyzes  how  state  policies 
have  induced  changes  in  the  social  organization  of  Kurdistan 
during  the  nineteenth  and  twentieth  centuries.  Numerous  arti- 
cles about  contemporary  Islam  in  Turkey  have  appeared  since 
the  mid-1980s.  An  excellent  collection  that  examines  social  and 
educational  issues  is  a  volume  edited  by  Richard  Tapper,  Islam 
in  Modern  Turkey.  Insight  into  the  effect  of  the  post-1980  eco- 
nomic reforms  on  labor  relations  and  class  structure  can  be 
obtained  from  articles  in  The  Political  and  Socioeconomic  Transfor- 
mation of  Turkey,  edited  by  Atila  Eralp,  Muharrem  Tunay,  and 
Birol  Yesilada.  Nermin  Abadan-Unat  has  published  books  and 
articles  about  the  changing  status  of  women  in  Turkey;  see 
especially  her  Women  in  the  Developing  World:  Evidence  from  Tur- 
key, which  contains  a  wealth  of  statistical  data.  Jenny  B.  White's 
Money  Makes  Us  Relatives  is  a  detailed  study  of  the  intertwined 
cultural,  social,  and  economic  aspects  of  the  lives  of  women 
who  undertake  at-home  contract  labor  in  Istanbul's  lower-class 
neighborhoods.  (For  further  information  and  complete  cita- 
tions, see  Bibliography.) 


145 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


i 


Ferry  on  the  Bosporus  with  Istanbul  and  the  Galata  Tower  in  the  background 


THE  TURKISH  ECONOMY  is  being  transformed  in  the  1990s 
from  a  state-led  to  a  market-oriented  economy.  As  in  most 
economies  undergoing  market  reforms,  the  process  of  change 
has  caused  severe  internal  dislocations.  External  economic 
"shocks"  such  as  the  Persian  Gulf  War  of  1991  and  the  resulting 
United  Nations  (UN)  embargo  on  Iraq  have  complicated  the 
transition. 

The  Turkish  economy's  ongoing  and  turbulent  reorienta- 
tion has  left  the  economy  a  study  in  contrasts.  Modern  indus- 
tries coexist  with  pockets  of  subsistence  agriculture.  The  major 
cities  of  western  Anatolia  are  cosmopolitan  centers  of  industry, 
finance,  and  trade,  whereas  the  eastern  part  of  the  country  is 
relatively  underdeveloped.  Several  decades  of  state  planning 
followed  by  economic  liberalization  have  made  industry  Tur- 
key's leading  economic  sector,  even  as  most  Turks  continue  to 
work  on  farms.  Industry  has  undergone  a  fairly  rapid  transfor- 
mation as  a  consequence  of  the  far-reaching  market  reforms 
implemented  in  the  1980s  and  early  1990s.  Despite  the 
reforms,  however,  public  enterprises  continue  to  dominate  raw- 
materials  processing  and  the  manufacture  of  heavy  industrial 
and  military  goods.  The  smaller  firms  that  dominate  the  pri- 
vate sector  produce  intermediate  and  consumer  goods  for 
domestic  and  foreign  markets.  The  services  sector  is  perhaps 
the  most  diverse,  embracing  large  export-oriented  marketing 
groups  and  world-scale  banks  as  well  as  small  shops  and  individ- 
ual domestic  workers. 

To  a  large  extent,  the  last  200  years  in  Turkey  have  been 
marked  by  its  rulers'  attempts  to  transform  it  into  a  modern 
European  industrial  nation.  The  Ottoman  Empire  encoun- 
tered serious  economic  problems  beginning  in  the  eighteenth 
century  with  the  imposition  of  unequal  treaties,  the  capitula- 
tions (see  Glossary),  which  affected  trade  and  taxation.  The 
tanzimat  (reorganization)  reforms  of  1839-78,  an  important 
component  of  which  was  the  reorientation  of  the  economy 
toward  development  of  an  indigenous  industrial  base,  led  to 
deepening  indebtedness  to  Western  imperial  powers  by  the 
end  of  the  nineteenth  century.  This  dependence  on  the  West, 
which  was  seen  as  one  of  the  main  causes  of  Turkey's  "back- 
wardness," created  the  context  for  the  economic  policy  of  the 
new  republic  formed  in  1923.  The  other  important  influence 


149 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

on  the  new  leaders  of  the  republic  was  the  example  of  state 
planning  in  the  Soviet  Union.  Given  these  influences,  state 
planning  was  the  route  Turkey's  new  leaders  took  to  modernize 
the  country. 

From  the  1930s  until  1980,  the  state  pursued  import-substi- 
tution industrialization  by  means  of  public  enterprises  and 
development  planning.  This  policy  created  a  mixed  economy 
in  which  industrial  development  was  rapid.  However,  during 
the  post-World  War  II  period  the  drawbacks  of  excessive  state 
intervention  became  ever  more  apparent  to  policy  makers  and 
the  public.  State  enterprises,  which  came  to  account  for  about 
40  percent  of  manufacturing  by  1980,  were  often  overstaffed 
and  inefficient;  their  losses  were  a  significant  drain  on  the  gov- 
ernment budget.  State  planning  targets  were  often  excessively 
ambitious,  yet  they  neglected  such  essential  sectors  as  agricul- 
ture. Concentration  on  import  substitution  deemphasized 
exports,  resulting  in  chronic  trade  deficits  and  a  pattern  in 
which  periods  of  rapid  growth,  financed  in  part  by  foreign  bor- 
rowing, led  to  balance  of  payments  crises  that  necessitated  aus- 
terity programs. 

The  rapid  transition  from  an  agricultural  to  an  industrial 
society  also  produced  distortions  in  the  country's  labor  markets 
and  led  to  unequal  income  distribution.  As  was  the  case  in 
most  developing  countries,  there  was  a  high  birth  rate,  which 
contributed  to  unemployment  in  the  postwar  period  by  causing 
the  labor  force  to  grow  rapidly.  In  addition,  the  modernization 
of  agriculture  tended  to  make  small  farms  economically  nonvi- 
able. As  a  result,  many  rural  people  migrated  to  urban  areas. 
Those  who  left  farming,  however,  often  lacked  skills  needed  in 
modern  industry  and  could  find  employment  only  in  the  infor- 
mal sector  of  the  urban  economy.  Meanwhile,  industrial  enter- 
prises became  more  capital  intensive,  which  increased 
productivity  but  reduced  the  demand  for  unskilled  labor.  At 
the  same  time,  firms  had  trouble  recruiting  skilled  employees. 

In  January  1980,  the  Turkish  government  undertook  a 
major  reform  program  to  open  the  Turkish  economy  to  inter- 
national markets.  Leading  the  reform  was  Turgut  Ozal,  then 
deputy  prime  minister  and  minister  for  economic  affairs.  Ozal 
became  prime  minister  in  1983,  following  a  three-year  military 
regime,  and  served  as  president  from  1989  until  his  death  in 
1993.  Ozal's  reform  program  included  a  reduced  state  role  in 
the  economy,  a  realistic  exchange  rate  and  realistic  monetary 
policies,  cutbacks  on  subsidies  and  price  controls,  and  encour- 


150 


The  Economy 


agement  of  exports  and  foreign  direct  investment.  During  its 
early  years,  the  liberalization  program  achieved  considerable 
success  in  reducing  external  deficits  and  restoring  economic 
growth.  Despite  significant  foreign  direct  investment  during 
the  1980s  and  early  1990s,  however,  Turkey's  balance  of  pay- 
ments remained  burdened  by  an  external  debt  of  more  than 
US$65  billion  at  the  end  of  1993.  A  balance  of  payments  crisis 
occurred  in  1994  in  the  aftermath  of  a  domestic  political  crisis 
in  the  wake  of  deep  divisions  within  the  administration  over 
economic  policy  and  a  sharp  decrease  in  exports  to  Turkey's 
beleaguered  neighbors,  Iraq  and  Iran.  This  situation  led  to  a 
steep  fall  in  the  Turkish  lira  (TL;  for  value  of  the  lira — see  Glos- 
sary) . 

The  success  of  the  Ozal  program  was  predicated  on  develop- 
ing satisfactory  relationships  with  the  country's  economic  part- 
ners and  continued  access  to  export  markets.  Rapid 
development  required  large  capital  imports  because  domestic 
savings  were  insufficient  for  needed  investments.  Foreign  inves- 
tors, attracted  by  Turkey's  great  economic  potential  and 
increasingly  liberal  economic  policies,  made  major  commit- 
ments to  infrastructure  projects  during  the  mid-1980s.  How- 
ever, continued  high  inflation,  as  well  as  memories  of  the 
political  instability  of  the  late  1970s,  caused  investors  to  hesi- 
tate. These  insecurities  were  heightened  after  the  Iraqi  inva- 
sion of  Kuwait  in  1990,  the  rise  of  strong  Islamist  (sometimes 
seen  as  fundamentalist)  parties  in  the  early  1990s,  and  persis- 
tent macroeconomic  problems. 

Whatever  short-term  difficulties  Turkey  faces,  most  observ- 
ers believe  the  country's  long-term  economic  prospects  are 
good.  Mining  and  agriculture  provide  raw  materials  for  indus- 
try, and  the  growing  and  resourceful  population  provides 
abundant  labor.  Turkey  is  one  of  the  few  countries  that  is  self- 
sufficient  in  food;  indeed  it  can  export  food  to  European  and 
Middle  Eastern  markets.  Economic  reforms  have  led  to 
increases  in  exports  of  processed  foods,  textiles,  motor  vehi- 
cles, and  consumer  durables.  Considerable  investments  in  tour- 
ism, the  revitalization  of  banking,  and  upgraded  transportation 
facilities  should  allow  Turkey  to  compete  in  the  international 
services  market  in  the  1990s. 

Turkey  has  made  great  strides  toward  building  close  eco- 
nomic ties  with  Europe,  and  Turkey's  leaders  have  promoted 
the  country  as  a  vital  link  between  the  industrial  economies  of 
Europe  and  the  underdeveloped  economies  of  the  Middle  East 


151 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

and  Central  Asia.  On  several  fronts,  however,  Turkey  suffered  a 
number  of  setbacks  in  the  early  1990s.  A  critical  one  was  the 
embargo  on  Iraq.  Because  of  it,  Turkey  lost  a  huge  export  mar- 
ket as  well  as  fees  for  allowing  Iraqi  oil  to  pass  through  a  pipe- 
line on  Turkish  territory.  In  addition,  Iran,  a  major  trading 
partner  in  the  1980s,  reoriented  its  trade  directly  with  Europe 
and  Asia  in  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s.  Early  expectations 
for  commerce  with  the  Central  Asian  countries  have  gone 
unfulfilled  because  of  the  economic  and  social  dislocations 
they  have  suffered  in  breaking  away  from  the  Soviet  Union. 
Worst  of  all,  Turkey's  political  relations  with  Europe  have  dete- 
riorated, mainly  because  of  human  rights  abuses  of  its  Kurdish 
population  and  increasing  intolerance  in  Europe  of  Turkish 
immigrants.  As  a  result,  Turkey's  accession  to  the  European 
Union  (EU — see  Glossary)  appeared  increasingly  unlikely  to 
happen  as  targeted  in  1995,  despite  its  having  been  an  associ- 
ate member  since  1963  of  the  EU's  predecessor  body,  the  Euro- 
pean Community  (EC — see  Glossary),  and  having  applied  for 
full  membership  in  1987. 

Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy 

At  the  time  of  the  collapse  of  the  Ottoman  Empire  during 
World  War  I,  the  Turkish  economy  was  underdeveloped:  agri- 
culture depended  on  outmoded  techniques  and  poor-quality 
livestock,  and  the  few  factories  producing  basic  products  such 
as  sugar  and  flour  were  under  foreign  control.  Between  1923 
and  1985,  the  economy  grew  at  an  average  annual  rate  of  6  per- 
cent. In  large  part  as  a  result  of  government  policies,  a  back- 
ward economy  developed  into  a  complex  economic  system 
producing  a  wide  range  of  agricultural,  industrial,  and  service 
products  for  both  domestic  and  export  markets. 

Economic  Development 

At  the  birth  of  the  republic,  Turkey's  industrial  base  was 
weak  because  Ottoman  industries  had  been  undermined  by 
the  capitulations.  World  War  I  and  the  War  of  Independence 
(1919-22)  also  had  extensively  disrupted  the  Turkish  econ- 
omy. The  loss  of  Ottoman  territories,  for  example,  cut  off  Ana- 
tolia from  traditional  markets.  Agricultural  output — the  source 
of  income  for  most  of  the  population — had  dropped  sharply  as 
peasants  went  to  war.  Even  the  production  of  wheat,  Turkey's 
main  crop,  was  insufficient  to  meet  domestic  demand.  In  addi- 


152 


The  Economy 


tion,  massacres  and  the  emigration  of  Greeks,  Armenians,  and 
Jews,  who  had  dominated  urban  economic  life,  caused  a  short- 
age of  skilled  laborers  and  entrepreneurs. 

Turkey's  economy  recovered  remarkably  once  hostilities 
ceased.  From  1923  to  1926,  agricultural  output  rose  by  87  per- 
cent, as  agricultural  production  returned  to  prewar  levels. 
Industry  and  services  grew  at  more  than  9  percent  per  year 
from  1923  to  1929;  however,  their  share  of  the  economy 
remained  quite  low  at  the  end  of  the  decade.  By  1930,  as  a 
result  of  the  world  depression,  external  markets  for  Turkish 
agricultural  exports  had  collapsed,  causing  a  sharp  decline  in 
national  income.  The  government  stepped  in  during  the  early 
1930s  to  promote  economic  recovery,  following  a  doctrine 
known  as  etatism  (see  Glossary).  Growth  slowed  during  the 
worst  years  of  the  depression  but  between  1935  and  1939 
reached  6  percent  per  year.  During  the  1940s,  the  economy 
stagnated,  in  large  part  because  maintaining  armed  neutrality 
during  World  War  II  increased  the  country's  military  expendi- 
tures while  almost  entirely  curtailing  foreign  trade. 

After  1950  the  country  suffered  economic  disruptions  about 
once  a  decade;  the  most  serious  crisis  occurred  in  the  late 
1970s.  In  each  case,  an  industry-led  period  of  rapid  expansion, 
marked  by  a  sharp  increase  in  exports,  resulted  in  a  balance  of 
payments  crisis.  Devaluations  of  the  Turkish  lira  and  austerity 
programs  designed  to  dampen  domestic  demand  for  foreign 
goods  were  implemented  in  accordance  with  International 
Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary)  guidelines.  These  mea- 
sures usually  led  to  sufficient  improvement  in  the  country's 
external  accounts  to  make  possible  the  resumption  of  loans  to 
Turkey  by  foreign  creditors.  Although  the  military  interven- 
tions of  1960  and  1971  were  prompted  in  part  by  economic  dif- 
ficulties, after  each  intervention  Turkish  politicians  boosted 
government  spending,  causing  the  economy  to  overheat.  In 
the  absence  of  serious  structural  reforms,  Turkey  ran  chronic 
current  account  deficits  usually  financed  by  external  borrow- 
ing that  made  the  country's  external  debt  rise  from  decade  to 
decade,  reaching  by  1980  about  US$16.2  billion,  or  more  than 
one-quarter  of  annual  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glos- 
sary). Debt-servicing  costs  in  that  year  equaled  33  percent  of 
exports  of  goods  and  services. 

By  the  late  1970s,  Turkey's  economy  had  perhaps  reached 
its  worst  crisis  since  the  fall  of  the  Ottoman  Empire.  Turkish 
authorities  had  failed  to  take  sufficient  measures  to  adjust  to 


153 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


the  effects  of  the  sharp  increase  in  world  oil  prices  in  1973-74 
and  had  financed  the  resulting  deficits  with  short-term  loans 
from  foreign  lenders.  By  1979  inflation  had  reached  triple-digit 
levels,  unemployment  had  risen  to  about  15  percent,  industry 
was  using  only  half  its  capacity,  and  the  government  was  unable 
to  pay  even  the  interest  on  foreign  loans.  It  seemed  that  Turkey 
would  be  able  to  sustain  crisis-free  development  only  if  major 
changes  were  made  in  the  government's  import-substitution 
approach  to  development.  Many  observers  doubted  the  ability 
of  Turkish  politicians  to  carry  out  the  needed  reforms. 

Reforms  under  Ozal 

In  January  1980,  the  government  of  Prime  Minister  Stiley- 
man  Demirel  (who  had  served  as  prime  minister  1965-71, 
1975-78,  and  1979-80)  began  implementing  a  far-reaching 
reform  program  designed  by  then  Deputy  Prime  Minister  Tur- 
gut  Ozal  to  shift  Turkey's  economy  toward  export-led  growth. 

The  Ozal  strategy  called  for  import-substitution  policies  to 
be  replaced  with  policies  designed  to  encourage  exports  that 
could  finance  imports,  giving  Turkey  a  chance  to  break  out  of 
the  postwar  pattern  of  alternating  periods  of  rapid  growth  and 
deflation.  With  this  strategy,  planners  hoped  Turkey  could 
experience  export-led  growth  over  the  long  run.  The  govern- 
ment pursued  these  goals  by  means  of  a  comprehensive  pack- 
age: devaluation  of  the  Turkish  lira  and  institution  of  flexible 
exchange  rates,  maintenance  of  positive  real  interest  rates  and 
tight  control  of  the  money  supply  and  credit,  elimination  of 
most  subsidies  and  the  freeing  of  prices  charged  by  state  enter- 
prises, reform  of  the  tax  system,  and  encouragement  of  foreign 
investment.  In  July  1982,  when  Ozal  left  office,  many  of  his 
reforms  were  placed  on  hold.  Starting  in  November  1983,  how- 
ever, when  he  again  became  prime  minister,  he  was  able  to 
extend  the  liberalization  program. 

The  liberalization  program  overcame  the  balance  of  pay- 
ments crisis,  reestablished  Turkey's  ability  to  borrow  in  interna- 
tional capital  markets,  and  led  to  renewed  economic  growth. 
Merchandise  exports  grew  from  US$2.3  billion  in  1979  to 
US$8.3  billion  in  1985.  Merchandise  import  growth  in  the 
same  period — from  US$4.8  billion  to  US$11.2  billion — did  not 
keep  pace  with  export  growth  and  proportionately  narrowed 
the  trade  deficit,  although  the  deficit  level  stabilized  at  around 
US$2.5  billion.  Ozal's  policies  had  a  particularly  positive  impact 
on  the  services  account  of  the  current  account.  Despite  a  jump 


154 


Atatiirk  Dam,  major  part  of  Southeast  Anatolian  Project  ( GAP) 

Courtesy  Turkish  Information  Office 

in  interest  payments,  from  US$200  million  in  1979  to  US$1.4 
billion  in  1985,  the  services  account  accumulated  a  growing 
surplus  during  this  period.  Expanding  tourist  receipts  and 
pipeline  fees  from  Iraq  were  the  main  reasons  for  this  improve- 
ment. Stabilizing  the  current  account  helped  restore  creditwor- 
thiness on  international  capital  markets.  Foreign  investment, 
which  had  been  negligible  in  the  1970s,  now  started  to  grow, 
although  it  remained  modest  in  the  mid-1980s.  Also,  Turkey 
was  able  to  borrow  on  the  international  market,  whereas  in  the 
late  1970s  it  could  only  seek  assistance  from  the  IMF  and  other 
official  creditors. 

The  reduction  in  public  expenditures,  which  was  at  the 
heart  of  the  stabilization  program,  slowed  the  economy  sharply 
in  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s.  Real  gross  national  product 
(GNP — see  Glossary)  declined  1.5  percent  in  1979  and  1.3  per- 
cent in  1980.  The  manufacturing  and  services  sectors  felt  much 


155 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

of  the  impact  of  this  drop  in  income,  with  the  manufacturing 
sector  operating  at  close  to  50  percent  of  total  capacity.  As  the 
external-payments  constraint  eased,  the  economy  bounced 
back  sharply.  Between  1981  and  1985,  real  GNP  grew  3  percent 
per  year,  led  by  growth  in  the  manufacturing  sector.  With  tight 
controls  on  workers'  earnings  and  activities,  the  industrial  sec- 
tor began  drawing  on  unused  industrial  capacity  and  raised 
output  by  an  average  rate  of  9.1  percent  per  year  between  1981 
and  1985.  The  devaluation  of  the  lira  also  helped  make  Turkey 
more  economically  competitive.  As  a  result,  exports  of  manu- 
factures increased  by  an  average  rate  of  45  percent  per  annum 
during  this  period. 

The  rapid  resurgence  of  growth  and  the  improvement  in 
the  balance  of  payments  were  insufficient  to  overcome  unem- 
ployment and  inflation,  which  remained  serious  problems.  The 
official  jobless  rate  fell  from  15  percent  in  1979  to  11  percent 
in  1980,  but,  partly  because  of  the  rapid  growth  of  the  labor 
force,  unemployment  rose  again,  to  13  percent  in  1985.  Infla- 
tion fell  to  about  25  percent  in  the  1981-82  period,  but  it 
climbed  again,  to  more  than  30  percent  in  1983  and  more  than 
40  percent  in  1984.  Although  inflation  eased  somewhat  in  1985 
and  1986,  it  remained  one  of  the  primary  problems  facing  eco- 
nomic policy  makers. 

Economic  Performance  in  the  Early  1990s 

Turkey  benefited  economically  from  the  Iran-Iraq  War 
(1980-88).  Both  Iran  and  Iraq  became  major  trading  partners, 
and  Turkish  business  supplied  both  combatants,  encouraged 
by  government  export  credits.  With  limited  access  to  the  Per- 
sian Gulf,  Iraq  also  came  to  depend  heavily  on  Turkey  for 
export  routes  for  its  crude  oil.  Iraq  had  financed  two  pipelines 
located  next  to  one  another  from  its  northern  Kirkuk  oilfields 
to  the  Turkish  Mediterranean  port  of  Qeyhan,  slightly  north- 
west of  Iskenderun.  The  capacity  of  the  pipelines  totaled 
around  1.1  million  barrels  per  day  (bpd).  Not  only  did  Turkey 
obtain  part  of  its  domestic  supplies  from  the  pipeline,  but  it 
was  paid  a  sizable  entrepot  fee.  Some  sources  have  estimated 
this  fee  at  US$300  million  to  US$500  million. 

Turkey's  economy  was  battered  by  the  1991  Persian  Gulf 
War.  The  UN  embargo  on  Iraq  required  the  ending  of  oil 
exports  through  the  £eyhan  pipelines,  resulting  in  the  loss  of 
the  pipeline  fees.  In  addition,  the  economy  may  have  lost  as 
much  as  US$3  billion  in  trade  with  Iraq.  Saudi  Arabia,  Kuwait, 


156 


The  Economy 


and  the  United  Arab  Emirates  (UAE)  moved  to  compensate 
Turkey  for  these  losses,  however,  and  by  1992  the  economy 
again  began  to  grow  rapidly. 

The  Turkish  economy  again  was  plunged  into  crisis  in  1994. 
The  central  government's  moves  in  1992  and  1993  to  grant 
large  salary  increases  to  civil  servants  and  to  increase  transfers 
to  state  enterprises  enlarged  the  public-sector  borrowing 
requirement  to  a  record  17  percent  of  GDP  in  1993.  This  high 
government  spending  sharply  boosted  domestic  demand's  rate 
of  growth  to  6.4  percent  in  1992  and  7.6  percent  in  1993.  In 
turn,  inflation  rates  went  up,  with  the  annual  rate  peaking  at  73 
percent  in  mid-1993.  The  resulting  rise  in  the  real  exchange 
rate  translated  into  increased  imports  and  slowed  the  expan- 
sion of  exports.  The  trade  deficit  rose  in  1993  to  US$14  billion, 
while  the  current  account  deficit  reached  US$6.3  billion,  or  5.3 
percent  of  GDP. 

Turkey's  impressive  economic  performance  in  the  1980s 
won  high  marks  from  Wall  Street's  credit-rating  agencies.  In 
1992  and  1993,  the  government  used  these  ratings  to  attract 
funds  to  cover  its  budget  deficits.  International  bond  issues 
over  this  period  amounted  to  US$7.5  billion.  These  capital 
flows  helped  maintain  the  overvalued  exchange  rate.  In  a  mar- 
ket economy,  a  high  level  of  government  borrowing  should 
translate  into  higher  domestic  interest  rates  and  even  possibly 
"crowd  out"  private-sector  borrowers,  thereby  eventually  slow- 
ing economic  growth.  But  the  government's  foreign  borrowing 
took  the  pressure  off  domestic  interest  rates  and  actually 
spurred  more  private-sector  borrowing  in  an  already  over- 
heated economy.  Sensing  an  easy  profit  opportunity  during 
this  period,  commercial  banks  borrowed  at  world  interest  rates 
and  lent  at  Turkey's  higher  domestic  rates  without  fear  of  a 
depreciating  currency.  As  a  result,  Turkey's  foreign  short-term 
debt  rose  sharply.  External  and  internal  confidence  in  the  gov- 
ernment's ability  to  manage  the  impending  balance  of  pay- 
ments crisis  waned,  compounding  economic  difficulties. 

Disputes  between  Prime  Minister  Tansu  (filler  (1993-  )  and 
the  Central  Bank  governor  undermined  confidence  in  the  gov- 
ernment. The  prime  minister  insisted  on  monetizing  the  fiscal 
deficit  (selling  government  debt  instruments  to  the  Central 
Bank)  rather  than  acceding  to  the  Central  Bank's  proposal  to 
issue  more  public  debt  in  the  form  of  government  securities. 
The  Central  Bank  governor  resigned  in  August  1993  over  this 
issue.  In  January  1994,  international  credit  agencies  down- 


157 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

graded  Turkey's  debt  to  below  investment  grade.  At  that  time,  a 
second  Central  Bank  governor  resigned. 

Mounting  concern  over  the  disarray  in  economic  policy  was 
reflected  in  an  accelerated  "dollarization"  of  the  economy  as 
residents  switched  domestic  assets  into  foreign-currency  depos- 
its to  protect  their  investments.  By  the  end  of  1994,  about  50 
percent  of  the  total  deposit  base  was  held  in  the  form  of  for- 
eign-currency deposits,  up  from  1  percent  in  1993.  The  down- 
grading by  credit-rating  agencies  and  a  lack  of  confidence  in 
the  government's  budget  deficit  target  of  14  percent  of  GDP 
for  1994  triggered  large-scale  capital  flight  and  the  collapse  of 
the  exchange  rate.  The  government  had  to  intervene  by  selling 
its  foreign-currency  reserves  to  staunch  the  decline  of  the 
Turkish  lira.  As  a  result,  reserves  fell  from  US$6.3  billion  at  the 
end  of  1993  to  US$3  billion  by  the  end  of  March  1994.  Before 
the  end  of  April,  when  the  government  was  forced  to 
announce  a  long-overdue  austerity  program  following  the 
March  1994  local  elections,  the  lira  had  plummeted  by  76  per- 
cent from  the  end  of  1993  to  TL41,000  against  the  United 
States  dollar. 

The  package  of  measures  announced  by  the  government  on 
April  5,  1994,  was  also  submitted  to  the  IMF  as  part  of  its 
request  for  a  US$740  million  standby  facility  beginning  in  July 
1994.  Measures  included  a  sharp  increase  in  prices  the  public- 
sector  enterprises  would  charge  the  public,  decreases  in  bud- 
getary expenditures,  a  commitment  to  raise  taxes,  and  a  pledge 
to  accelerate  privatization  of  state  economic  enterprises 
(SEEs).  Some  observers  questioned  the  credibility  of  these 
measures,  given  that  the  tax  measures  translated  into  a  revenue 
increase  equivalent  to  4  percent  of  GDP  and  the  expenditure 
cuts  were  equivalent  to  6  percent  of  GDP. 

The  government  actually  succeeded  in  generating  a  small 
surplus  in  the  budget  during  the  second  quarter  of  1994, 
mainly  as  a  result  of  higher  taxes,  after  running  a  deficit  of  17 
percent  of  GDP  in  the  first  quarter.  The  slowdown  in  govern- 
ment spending,  a  sharp  loss  in  business  confidence,  and  the 
resulting  decline  in  economic  activity  reduced  tax  revenues, 
however.  The  fiscal  crisis  resulted  in  a  decline  in  real  GDP  of  5 
percent  in  1994  after  the  economy  had  grown  briskly  in  1992 
and  1993.  Real  wages  also  fell  in  1994:  average  nominal  wage 
increases  of  65  percent  were  about  20  percent  below  the  rate  of 
consumer  price  inflation. 


158 


The  Economy 


Analysts  pointed  out  that  despite  the  fragility  of  the  macro- 
economic  adjustment  process  and  the  susceptibility  of  fiscal 
policy  to  political  pressures,  the  government  continued  to  be 
subject  to  market  checks  and  balances.  Combined  with  a  stron- 
ger private  sector,  particularly  on  the  export  front,  the  econ- 
omy was  expected  to  bounce  back  to  a  pattern  of  faster  growth. 

Structure  of  the  Economy 

In  the  years  after  World  War  II,  the  economy  became  capa- 
ble of  supplying  a  much  broader  range  of  goods  and  services. 
By  1994  the  industrial  sector  accounted  for  just  under  40  per- 
cent of  GDP,  having  surpassed  agriculture  (including  forestry 
and  fishing),  which  contributed  about  16  percent  of  produc- 
tion. The  rapid  shift  in  industry's  relative  importance  resulted 
from  government  policies  in  effect  since  the  1930s  favoring 
industrialization  (see  fig.  8).  In  the  early  1990s,  the  govern- 
ment aimed  at  continued  increases  in  industry's  share  of  the 
economy,  especially  by  means  of  export  promotion. 

Services  increased  from  a  small  fraction  of  the  economy  in 
the  1920s  to  just  under  half  of  GDP  by  1994.  Several  factors 
accounted  for  the  growth  of  the  services  sector.  Government— 
already  sizable  under  the  Ottomans — expanded  as  defense 
expenditures  rose;  health,  education,  and  welfare  programs 
were  implemented;  and  the  government  work  force  was 
increased  to  staff  the  numerous  new  public  organizations. 
Trade,  tourism,  transportation,  and  financial  services  also 
became  more  important  as  the  economy  developed  and  diver- 
sified. 

Human  Resources  and  Trade  Unions 

In  the  early  1990s,  Turkey  suffered  from  serious  structural 
unemployment,  although  the  country  continued  to  lack  skilled 
workers  and  managers.  The  number  of  people  engaged  in  sub- 
sistence agriculture  and  in  informal  labor  complicated  efforts 
to  make  accurate  estimates  of  unemployment  and  underem- 
ployment. In  the  absence  of  direct  surveys,  available  statistical 
data  only  broadly  indicated  trends  in  labor  markets  (see  table 
5,  Appendix  A).  In  1992  the  civilian  labor  force  totaled  almost 
18.5  million;  the  government  estimated  that  unemployment 
was  about  8.7  percent,  but  unofficial  sources  put  it  at  15  per- 
cent for  1993.  In  a  study,  the  State  Institute  of  Statistics  esti- 
mated that  unemployment  in  urban  areas  among  those  aged 


159 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


GDP  1985  ■  TL25,770  MILLION1 

OTHER 
SERVICES 


CONSTRUCTION 

3.9% 


1  Current  prices;  for  value  of  the  Turkish  lira — see  Glossary. 

2  Agriculture  includes  forestry  and  fishing, 
industry  includes  mining,  utilities,  and  manufacturing, 
transportation  includes  communications. 


Figure  8.  Structure  of  the  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP),  1985  and 
1993 


160 


The  Economy 


fifteen  to  twenty-four  was  30.2  percent.  According  to  official 
figures  for  1992,  about  44  percent  of  those  employed  worked 
in  agriculture — down  from  more  than  75  percent  in  the  early 
1960s.  Employment  in  industry  and  construction  amounted  to 
about  20  percent  in  1994,  and  the  services  sector  employed 
about  35  percent. 

During  the  postwar  period,  as  agriculture  modernized  and 
grew  more  productive,  many  agricultural  workers  became 
redundant.  Many  now-jobless  farmers,  attracted  by  higher 
wages  in  the  urban  economy,  migrated  to  the  cities.  Although 
industry  and  services  grew  rapidly  after  1950,  these  sectors  did 
not  create  enough  jobs  to  meet  the  demand. 

Demographic  trends  portend  continued  unemployment 
problems.  Population  growth  rates  declined  somewhat  after 
the  1970s,  but  in  the  mid-1990s  demographers  were  predicting 
that  the  active  population  (those  between  fifteen  and  sixty-four 
years  of  age)  would  increase  at  more  than  2  percent  per  year 
until  at  least  2000.  The  labor  force  grew  at  an  estimated  aver- 
age annual  rate  of  2  percent  during  the  1960s  and  1970s,  at  1.5 
to  2.0  percent  during  the  early  1980s,  and  at  2.2  percent  per 
year  from  1985  to  1992.  The  several  austerity  programs  since 
1980  exacerbated  the  unemployment  situation  in  the  mid- 
1980s,  with  an  estimated  3  million  Turks  unemployed  in  1985. 
The  recovery  of  the  economy  in  the  late  1980s  appeared  to 
improve  the  overall  situation;  manufacturing  employment 
increased  3.4  percent  per  year.  However,  the  economic  crisis  of 
early  1994  and  the  austerity  program  once  again  were  expected 
to  slow  employment  growth. 

The  labor  force  would  have  grown  even  faster  during  the 
1970s  and  1980s  had  it  not  been  for  a  fall  in  the  work  force  par- 
ticipation rate  from  about  73  percent  in  the  1970s  to  35  per- 
cent in  the  early  1990s.  This  decline  resulted  from  increased 
enrollments  in  secondary  and  postsecondary  education  and 
from  the  tendency  of  rural  women  who  migrated  to  the  city  to 
refrain  from  entering  the  work  force.  Most  demographers 
believed  that  participation  rates  would  continue  to  fall  as  a 
result  of  higher  overall  school  and  female  education  rates.  By 
1991  the  secondary  school  enrollment  ratios,  particularly  for 
females,  lagged  significantly  behind  primary  school  enrollment 
ratios,  implying  room  for  higher  future  enrollment.  Even  if 
participation  rates  continue  to  fall,  however,  projected  popula- 
tion growth  rates  will  make  unemployment  a  continuing  prob- 
lem. 


161 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Unemployment  has  caused  distortions  in  rural  and  urban 
labor  markets.  Many  farmers  have  remained  on  unproductive 
farms  to  avoid  more  uncertain  fates  in  the  cities.  In  addition, 
the  large  postwar  increase  in  employment  in  the  services  sector 
probably  reflects  wide-scale  underemployment,  as  unemployed 
persons  resort  to  working  as  street  vendors  and  domestic  work- 
ers. The  largest  groups  of  the  unemployed  include  educated 
youths  from  urban  areas,  migrants  dislocated  from  the  villages 
and  living  in  shantytowns,  and  Turks  returning  from  working 
abroad. 

Emigration  has  provided  a  partial  safety  valve  for  excess 
labor,  especially  during  the  period  between  1969  and  1973, 
when  more  than  100,000  workers  left  each  year  to  seek  jobs 
abroad.  The  capital-intensive,  labor-short  countries  of  north- 
western Europe  began  recruiting  workers  from  southern 
Europe  and  the  Mediterranean  basin  in  the  1950s.  Turkish 
workers  began  emigrating  to  Western  Europe  in  large  numbers 
in  the  early  1960s,  as  the  demand  for  labor  increased  in  north- 
ern Europe  and  as  the  supply  from  southern  Italy  dried  up 
because  of  increased  domestic  demand.  Although  Turks 
worked  in  many  European  counties,  most  went  to  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany).  Many  Turkish  workers 
also  went  to  France,  Austria,  and  the  Netherlands.  The  number 
of  Turkish  workers  going  abroad  peaked  near  136,000  in  1973. 
The  oil  shock  of  that  year  and  the  1974-75  recession  led  to 
restrictions  on  new  guest  workers  throughout  Western  Europe, 
including  a  ban  in  West  Germany.  These  measures  caused  a 
sharp  decline  in  Turkish  emigration  to  Western  Europe — 
which  averaged  only  18,000  per  year  from  1974  to  1980 — and 
became  an  important  issue  between  Turkey  and  the  European 
Community.  Despite  the  restrictions,  in  1981  there  were  still 
about  1  million  Turkish  workers  in  Western  Europe,  half  of 
them  in  West  Germany. 

After  the  unification  of  Germany  in  1989,  pressure  mounted 
to  return  so-called  foreign  workers  to  their  home  countries 
even  though  many  had  been  born  in  Europe.  High  unemploy- 
ment rates,  especially  in  eastern  Germany,  spurred  neo-Nazi 
political  parties  to  agitate  for  forced  repatriation,  and  some 
groups  used  violence  against  immigrants.  In  one  celebrated 
case  in  Rostock,  members  of  a  Turkish  family  were  burned  to 
death  in  their  own  home.  Other  European  states  also  witnessed 
a  rise  in  hostility  toward  guest  workers,  including  Turks.  In 


162 


The  Economy 


France,  the  National  Front  Party,  led  by  Jean-Marie  Le  Pen, 
gained  much  support  for  its  anti-immigrant  stance. 

After  1975  Turkish  workers  went  more  often  to  Arab  oil 
states  than  to  Western  Europe.  Each  year  from  1980  through 
1982,  more  than  24,000  workers  went  to  Libya  and  more  than 
10,000  to  Saudi  Arabia.  During  the  same  period,  a  yearly  aver- 
age of  only  370  Turkish  workers  went  to  West  Germany.  By 
1982  about  150,000  Turks  were  employed  in  Saudi  Arabia, 
Libya,  and  the  small  Arabian  Peninsula  states.  However,  eco- 
nomic difficulties  faced  by  oil-producing  states  in  the  mid-  and 
late  1980s  reduced  opportunities  for  further  Turkish  emigra- 
tion. 

In  general,  the  Turkish  government  has  looked  favorably  on 
worker  emigration,  despite  concerns  that  skilled  workers  are 
being  lost  because  it  is  better-educated  Turks  who  tend  to  emi- 
grate. In  1994  an  estimated  1.1  million  Turkish  workers  were  in 
Western  Europe,  of  whom  about  750,000  were  in  Germany. 
More  than  200,000  were  in  Middle  Eastern  countries.  Workers 
in  Europe  usually  stay  abroad  several  years,  remitting  funds  to 
relatives  in  Turkey.  Most  eventually  return  with  their  accumu- 
lated savings  to  start  a  small  business  or  buy  a  farm.  Turks  work- 
ing in  the  Middle  East,  in  contrast,  tend  to  work  for  Turkish 
construction  firms  and  typically  return  after  each  project  is 
completed;  these  workers  tend  to  remit  a  larger  share  of  earn- 
ings to  their  families.  The  flow  of  workers'  remittances  became 
financially  significant  after  1965,  when  they  reached  the  equiv- 
alent of  US$70  million.  By  the  early  1990s,  this  figure  had 
reached  US$3  billion  per  year. 

Like  most  developing  countries,  Turkey  lacks  an  adequate 
number  of  trained  and  skilled  personnel.  In  the  early  1990s, 
the  demand  for  educated  and  skilled  workers  exceeded  the 
limited  number  of  technically  and  scientifically  trained  gradu- 
ates. 

Trade  unions  play  an  important  role  with  reference  to  labor 
in  the  more  modern  sectors  of  the  economy.  Most  agricultural 
and  service  workers  do  not  belong  to  unions,  but  a  substantial 
part  of  the  industrial  labor  force  in  larger  enterprises  and  some 
workers  in  other  sectors,  such  as  transportation,  trade,  and 
finance,  are  unionized;  public-sector  workers  are  the  most 
likely  to  join  a  union.  In  the  1960s  and  1970s,  the  wage  and 
benefit  gains  of  unionized  workers  exerted  a  positive  influence 
on  the  income  levels  of  nonunionized  workers.  After  the  1980s, 
however,  the  labor  movement  weakened.  Not  only  are  unions 


163 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

smaller  in  terms  of  membership — Ministry  of  Labor  and  Social 
Security  figures  for  1985  suggested  that  unions  included  about 
1.8  million  workers,  or  about  10  percent  of  the  civilian  work 
force — but  severe  limits  on  their  activities  have  kept  them  polit- 
ically weak.  As  a  result,  during  the  1980s  organized  labor  suf- 
fered large  cuts  in  real  earnings. 

By  the  mid-1970s,  Turkey  had  about  800  unions,  many  of 
which  had  memberships  in  the  hundreds.  Few  were  what  might 
be  called  nationwide  unions;  several  had  extensive  member- 
ship in  a  particular  industry,  which  gave  them  a  leverage  that 
most  unions  lacked.  Many  unions  joined  national  federations 
to  exert  more  influence.  Before  the  1980  coup,  four  main 
trade  union  federations  with  differing  political  orientations 
dominated  the  labor  scene.  The  main  union  organization,  the 
Confederation  of  Turkish  Trade  Unions  (Turkiye  Isci 
Sendikalari  Konfederasyonu — Turk-Is)  was  politically  moder- 
ate, adhering  to  legal  limits  on  its  activities.  The  other  major 
union  group,  the  Confederation  of  Revolutionary  Workers' 
Trade  Unions  of  Turkey  (Turkiye  Devrimci  Isci  Sendikalari 
Konfederasyonu — DISK),  originated  from  a  faction  of  Turk-Is 
in  1967.  DISK  was  much  smaller  than  Turk-Is  but  more  mili- 
tant. In  addition,  small  numbers  of  workers  belonged  to  the 
pro-Islamist  Confederation  of  Turkish  Just  Workers'  Unions 
(Turkiye  Hak  Isci  Sendikalari  Konfederasyonu — Hak-Is)  and 
the  right-wing  Confederation  of  Turkish  Nationalist  Workers' 
Unions  (Turkiye  Milliyetci  Isci  Sendikalari  Konfederasyonu — 
MISK).  After  the  1980  coup,  all  union  federations  except  Turk- 
Is  were  banned  for  a  period.  Subsequently,  the  government 
allowed  the  other  union  groups  to  resume  their  activities. 

Figures  on  trade  union  membership  vary,  but  Ministry  of 
Labor  statistics  at  least  give  an  idea  of  the  relative  sizes  of  the 
unions.  According  to  this  source,  in  1992  Turk-Is  had  a  mem- 
bership of  about  1.7  million,  Hak-Is  had  about  330,000  mem- 
bers, and  DISK  had  about  26,000  members.  In  addition, 
Turkey  had  twenty-four  independent  unions  that  did  not 
belong  to  federations.  The  size  of  their  memberships  was 
uncertain  in  early  1995,  but  organized  labor  totaled  almost  2.2 
million  workers  in  1992.  Workers  could  legally  belong  to  more 
than  one  union,  which  explains  some  of  the  confusion  sur- 
rounding membership  statistics. 

Established  in  1952,  Turk-Is  includes  many  workers 
employed  in  SEEs  and  was  the  only  union  group  actively 
involved  in  large-scale  collective  bargaining  in  the  early  1990s. 


164 


The  Economy 


Strongly  centralized,  Turk-Is  is  dominated  by  a  few  large,  con- 
servative unions;  the  social  democratic  unions  that  figure 
among  its  thirty  affiliates  have  little  say  in  federation  affairs.  In 
adherence  to  the  law,  Turk-Is  has  remained  technically  aloof 
from  party  politics  but  is  interested  in  issues  affecting  labor. 
Turk-Is  is  affiliated  with  the  American  Federation  of  Labor- 
Congress  of  Industrial  Organizations  through  its  membership 
in  the  Asian-American  Free  Labor  Institute,  which  provides 
training  for  union  leaders.  Since  1980  Turk-Is  has  generally 
refrained  from  calling  strikes,  perhaps  because  of  fears  that 
labor  conflicts  might  lead  to  layoffs  of  surplus  SEE  personnel. 

Against  a  background  of  growing  labor  unrest  in  1994, 
related  to  deepening  economic  problems,  budget  cuts,  and 
privatization,  Turk-Is  coordinated  wage  talks  with  the  govern- 
ment at  the  end  of  the  year.  Although  accused  of  earlier  and 
questionable  cooperation  with  the  government,  Turk-Is  faced 
widespread  pressure  from  affiliated  unions  and  their  members 
not  to  agree  to  the  increase  the  government  was  offering.  Both 
DISK  and  Hak-Is  had  strongly  opposed  a  pay  increase  of  102 
percent  for  the  Turk-Is-affiliated  Teksif  union  at  the  end  of 
1994  on  the  grounds  that  the  size  of  the  pay  increase  did  not 
meet  the  much  higher  inflation  rates  and  the  agreement  was 
co-op  tive. 

DISK,  Tiirk-Is's  chief  rival,  draws  its  members  primarily  from 
the  private  sector  and  from  municipal  workers.  In  the  mid- 
1990s,  it  seemed  that  supporters  of  left-wing  unions  such  as 
DISK  were  shifting  to  Islamist-oriented  ones.  Nonetheless, 
DISK-af filiated  unions  continued  to  exert  some  influence  as 
part  of  overall  labor  pressure  to  maintain  wage  and  employ- 
ment levels. 

Before  1980  Hak-Is  was  reportedly  tied  to  the  pro-Islamic 
National  Salvation  Party  (Milli  Selamet  Partisi — MSP),  whereas 
MISK  supported  the  Nationalist  Action  Party  (Milliyetci 
Hareket  Partisi — MHP).  In  1980  the  two  federations  claimed 
memberships  of  68,000  and  290,000,  respectively.  After  1984 
they  played  only  a  minor  role  in  collective  bargaining  because 
they  lacked  sufficient  membership  to  be  considered  represen- 
tative under  new  labor  legislation. 

The  1980  military  intervention  severely  restricted  trade 
union  activities.  The  1982  constitution  and  the  laws  on  union 
organization,  collective  bargaining,  strikes,  and  lockouts  passed 
in  1983  have  made  Turkey's  unions  the  most  tightly  controlled 
in  noncommunist  Europe.  To  have  the  right  to  represent  the 


165 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

workers  at  a  given  facility,  unions  must  prove  that  they  have  the 
support  of  at  least  10  percent  of  union  membership  within  the 
industry  and  a  majority  at  the  particular  workplace.  Political 
and  general  strikes  and  many  forms  of  industrial  action,  includ- 
ing secondary  strikes,  work  slowdowns,  and  picketing,  are  pro- 
hibited. About  half  of  the  unionized  workers,  including  those 
in  the  gas,  water,  electricity,  mining,  and  petroleum  industries 
as  well  as  those  in  banking,  urban  transit,  garbage  collection 
and  firefighting,  are  allowed  to  strike.  Strikes  can  be  called  only 
after  a  written  announcement  to  the  government,  which  may 
require  a  ninety-day  cooling-off  period  followed  by  compulsory 
arbitration.  Workers  who  strike  illegally  may  be  punished  with 
as  much  as  eighteen  months  in  prison,  and  those  who  partici- 
pate in  such  strikes  can  be  fired,  with  the  loss  of  all  accumu- 
lated financial  claims,  including  pensions. 

Following  the  1980  coup,  the  military  government  prohib- 
ited collective  bargaining  until  May  1984,  after  which  time  offi- 
cials continued  trying  to  restrain  wage  settlements  in  order  to 
limit  inflation.  Although  private-sector  wage  settlements  in 
1984  and  1985  included  increases  ranging  from  25  to  60  per- 
cent, pay  adjustments  generally  continued  to  run  behind  the 
inflation  rate,  resulting  in  declines  in  real  wages.  The  govern- 
ment took  a  more  relaxed  attitude  in  the  late  1980s,  but  by 
1994  the  authorities  were  once  again  using  antistrike  regula- 
tions from  the  early  1980s  to  stop  strikes  and  other  job  actions. 

In  the  public  sector,  the  government  has  been  even  more 
successful  at  holding  the  line  against  wage  increases,  although 
large  increases  in  1992-93  led  to  a  sharp  jump  in  government 
expenditures.  With  a  limited  endorsement  by  the  IMF,  govern- 
ment employees'  wages  were  targeted  as  the  primary  means  of 
achieving  budget  cuts  in  1994  and  early  1995.  As  part  of  this 
strategy,  Prime  Minister  (filler  attempted  to  use  illegal  strikes  as 
a  pretext  for  liquidating  certain  public  enterprises;  unionized 
workers  also  would  be  notified  that  there  were  plenty  of  unem- 
ployed people  willing  to  do  their  jobs  for  lower  pay.  In  early 
1995,  unions  for  public-sector  workers  outside  the  public  enter- 
prises faced  the  possibility  of  being  abolished  altogether.  Also, 
seasonal  workers  with  part-time  jobs  working  on  village  roads, 
irrigation  projects,  and  other  infrastructure  components  were 
to  be  placed  under  the  authority  of  provincial  authorities,  an 
arrangement  that  would  cost  them  their  labor  rights.  People 
employed  with  "worker"  status,  who  therefore  had  certain 
rights  under  the  law,  were  reclassified  as  "public  servants"  with 


166 


The  Economy 


no  right  to  bargain  collectively  or  to  strike.  Members  of  this 
group  fared  badly  in  the  mid-1990s,  with  declining  wages 
accompanying  their  loss  of  rights. 

Role  of  Government  in  the  Economy 

The  Ottoman  Empire  established  a  strong  tradition  of  gov- 
ernment direction  of  the  economy.  Ottoman  economic  doc- 
trine ascribed  to  the  state  both  the  right  and  the  duty  to 
control  the  economy  for  the  common  good.  The  state  con- 
trolled a  large  proportion  of  the  land  and  suppressed  power 
centers,  blocking  the  development  of  a  landed  aristocracy. 
One's  position  in  the  imperial  hierarchy  was  the  primary  deter- 
minant of  income.  Because  the  sultan  confiscated  his  function- 
aries' wealth  when  they  died,  status  could  be  passed  on  only  by 
means  of  education.  For  example,  candidates  for  positions  in 
the  bureaucracy  were  required  to  have  command  of  the  Otto- 
man language.  Peasants  and  artisans  also  claimed  and  received 
protection  from  the  state,  often  at  the  expense  of  economic 
modernization.  The  bureaucracy  had  little  interest  in  eco- 
nomic growth,  which  might  lead  to  the  rise  of  a  new  class  that 
would  challenge  its  dominance.  To  ensure  control  of  certain 
urban-based  production  and  service  functions,  they  were 
reserved  for  minority  groups. 

Republican  Turkey  inherited  attitudes  and  memories  from 
the  Ottomans  that  continue  to  play  a  key  role  in  the  country's 
political  economy  in  the  late  twentieth  century.  Republican 
leaders  believe  that  the  state  has  a  duty  to  intervene  in  the 
economy,  not  only  to  strengthen  the  nation  against  foreign 
intervention  but  ultimately  to  further  the  well-being  of  the  peo- 
ple. 

Liberal  Interlude 

Scholars  traditionally  have  stressed  the  significance  of  state 
intervention  in  the  economy  during  the  early  years  of  the 
republic,  but  more  recent  research  indicates  that  Turkish  eco- 
nomic policy  was  relatively  liberal  until  the  1930s.  The  govern- 
ment made  significant  investments  in  railroad  and  other 
infrastructure  projects,  but  the  Law  for  the  Encouragement  of 
Industry  of  192V  and  other  measures  encouraged  private  enter- 
prise. Moreover,  Turkey's  economy  was  relatively  open  to  inter- 
national markets  during  the  1920s.  Under  the  provisions  of  the 
Treaty  of  Lausanne  of  1923,  the  capitulations  were  abolished, 


167 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


but  Turkey  could  not  introduce  protective  tariffs  until  August 
1929.  As  a  result,  tariffs  remained  low,  and  the  Turkish  lira  was 
convertible  and  floating.  Foreign  interests  invested  in  both 
public  and  private  enterprises,  helping  to  initiate  industrial 
development.  During  these  early  years,  economic  growth  was 
satisfactory,  but  the  country  ran  chronic  foreign  trade  deficits 
despite  the  continued  fall  in  the  value  of  the  lira. 

Turkish  economic  development  reached  a  turning  point 
with  the  Great  Depression.  By  1930  foreign  markets  for  Turkish 
agricultural  products  had  collapsed,  causing  sharp  declines  in 
the  prices  of  agricultural  goods  and  a  corresponding  decline  in 
national  income.  Dissatisfied  with  the  slow  development  of 
industry,  Turkey's  leaders  began  to  look  for  alternative  policies. 
During  the  late  1920s  and  the  early  1930s,  economic  and  politi- 
cal thinkers  discussed  alternative  approaches  to  national  eco- 
nomic development.  The  interventionist  trend  in  Western 
economic  thinking,  represented  by  works  such  as  John  May- 
nard  Keynes's  The  End  of  Laissez-Faire  (1926),  influenced  the 
theoretical  debate.  The  apparent  successes  of  the  Soviet 
Union's  drive  to  develop  heavy  industry  under  its  First  Five-Year 
Plan  (1928-33)  also  impressed  Turkish  thinkers,  although  in 
the  end  Turkish  policy  borrowed  primarily  from  the  West. 

Etatism 

At  its  1931  congress,  the  Republican  People's  Party  (Cum- 
huriyet  Halk  Partisi — CHP)  adopted  etatism,  one  of  Ataturk's 
Six  Arrows,  as  its  official  economic  strategy.  According  to  this 
program,  individual  enterprise  was  to  retain  a  fundamental 
role  in  the  economy,  but  active  government  intervention  was 
necessary  to  boost  the  nation's  welfare  and  the  state's  prosper- 
ity. The  CHP  also  declared  that  etatism  was  an  intermediate 
road  between  capitalism  and  socialism.  In  practice,  etatism 
entailed  the  promotion  of  industrialization  by  means  of  five- 
year  plans  and  the  creation  of  public  enterprises.  Comprehen- 
sive protective  tariffs  also  were  introduced  during  the  1930s, 
establishing  a  pattern  of  import-substitution  industrialization 
that  would  continue  for  many  years. 

After  World  War  II,  all  major  parties  claimed  to  support  etat- 
ism. The  sharp  reorientation  of  Turkey's  economic  policies 
after  1980  included  a  repudiation  of  much  etatist  doctrine, 
which,  however,  still  influenced  Turkish  economic  thinking. 
Inasmuch  as  Ataturk  had  declared  that  once  Turkey  had 
reached  a  satisfactory  level  of  development  certain  state  enter- 


168 


The  Economy 


prises  could  be  returned  to  private  control,  the  post-1980s  eco- 
nomic reforms  perhaps  could  be  considered  a  continuation  of 
one  aspect  of  the  original  etatist  program.  Moreover,  the  gov- 
ernment continued  to  use  policy  tools  such  as  SEEs  and  devel- 
opment planning  that  had  originated  during  the  etatist  period. 
Nonetheless,  by  the  mid-1990s  deepening  government  indebt- 
edness dictated  a  faster  reduction  of  the  state's  economic  com- 
mitments. Given  Turkey's  high  inflation,  job  insecurity,  and 
unemployment,  etatism  could  be  in  vogue  again,  but  in  the 
mid-1990s  no  major  opposition  party  was  calling  for  the  whole- 
sale renationalization  of  the  economy.  . 

State  Economic  Enterprises  and  Privatization 

An  important  tool  of  etatism  to  further  government  eco- 
nomic policies,  State  Economic  Enterprises  (SEEs)  are  vari- 
ously organized,  but  the  government  owns  at  least  a  50  percent 
share  in  each  of  them.  SEEs  are  set  up  by  the  government,  and 
each  has  a  board  that  reflects  the  ownership  of  the  particular 
SEE,  combining  government  representatives,  who  direct  the 
enterprise,  with  private  interests.  During  the  etatist  industrial- 
ization campaign  of  the  1930s,  the  government  set  up  many 
industrial  SEEs.  In  the  mid-1990s,  SEEs  continue  to  dominate 
sectors  considered  to  be  of  national  importance  or  sectors 
where  private  investors  have  hesitated  to  invest  because  capital 
requirements  are  too  great  in  light  of  expected  returns.  SEEs 
include  national  transportation,  communications,  and  energy 
enterprises;  banks  that  own  companies,  in  particular  branches 
such  as  textiles  or  refining;  and  conglomerates  with  holdings  in 
many  fields.  Some  SEEs  control  companies  in  which  ownership 
is  shared  with  private  and  foreign  investors.  In  1964  the  State 
Investment  Bank  was  established  to  provide  long-term  invest- 
ment credits  to  SEEs.  Credits  from  the  Central  Bank  of  Turkey, 
transfers  from  the  Treasury,  and  capital  markets  also  finance 
SEEs. 

In  the  mid-1990s,  SEEs  accounted  for  more  than  40  percent 
of  value  added  in  manufacturing  and  employed  about  550,000 
workers,  or  about  20  percent  of  the  industrial  work  force.  Until 
1980  SEEs  set  their  prices  in  accordance  with  government 
directives,  but  after  the  introduction  of  that  year's  reform  pack- 
age, they  were  expected  to  set  prices  independently.  Neverthe- 
less, prices  of  some  major  commodities,  such  as  fertilizers, 
continue  to  be  determined  by  the  government.  SEEs  also  influ- 


169 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

ence  markets,  especially  those  for  agricultural  goods,  by  estab- 
lishing guaranteed  minimum  prices  for  commodities. 

Aside  from  their  role  in  industrial  development,  SEEs  are 
charged  with  social  goals.  The  farm-support  program  stabilizes 
farmers'  incomes,  while  low  consumer  prices  for  food,  energy, 
and  transportation  help  the  urban  poor.  SEEs  also  provide 
training  and  employ  surplus  university  graduates  and  constitu- 
ents of  influential  politicians,  contributing  to  overstaffing. 
Some  SEEs  are  placed  in  underdeveloped  regions  to  spur 
industrial  development,  a  practice  that  increases  transporta- 
tion and  infrastructure  costs. 

One  objective  of  the  Ozal  reforms  was  to  improve  SEEs'  effi- 
ciency and  reduce  their  need  for  subsidies.  By  1982  the  govern- 
ment had  freed  most  SEE  prices  and  had  given  SEE  managers 
greater  autonomy  and  responsibility.  The  administration 
favored  opening  state  monopolies  to  outside  competition  and 
decided  in  1983  to  limit  SEE  investments  in  manufacturing. 
Nevertheless,  in  the  mid-1980s  the  state  sector  had  to  take  over 
several  failed  banks  that  had  significant  industrial  holdings, 
and  the  low  rate  of  private  investment  meant  that  the  public 
share  in  industrial  investment  actually  rose.  By  the  mid-1990s, 
SEEs  remained  a  major  burden  on  the  public  exchequer.  Of 
the  fifty  SEEs,  only  fifteen  were  expected  to  report  profits  in 
1994.  Funding  the  operating  losses  of  the  SEEs — TL90  trillion 
in  1994  alone — annually  cost  the  Treasury  around  TL20  tril- 
lion (about  US$70  billion)  in  1993  and  1994;  the  remainder 
was  borrowed  from  banks.  The  total  debt  stock  of  the  public 
enterprises  by  late  1994  was  estimated  at  TL250  trillion,  the 
bulk  of  which  was  owed  to  the  Treasury  and  Central  Bank.  This 
debt  generated  an  interest  charge  of  around  TL60  trillion  in 
1994  alone  on  collective  sales  of  TL550  trillion.  Deepening  eco- 
nomic problems  in  the  1990s  were  part  of  the  reason  for  the 
losses.  This  situation  was  exacerbated  by  a  requirement  that 
took  effect  after  1989  stipulating  that  SEEs  borrow  at  high  mar- 
ket rates. 

Major  plans  for  privatization  of  SEEs  were  supposed  to  go 
into  effect  as  early  as  1987  but  as  of  early  1995  had  not  yet 
occurred.  Prime  candidates  for  sale  include  the  state  airline, 
the  cement  industry,  and  the  textile  industry.  Almost  all  SEEs 
are  considered  potentially  suitable  for  privatization  except  for 
certain  infrastructure  facilities  such  as  power  plants  and  rail- 
roads. 


170 


The  Economy 


Some  SEE  managers  and  unions  oppose  privatization,  fear- 
ing that,  once  under  private  management,  the  enterprises  will 
eliminate  unprofitable  subsidiaries  or  aggressively  reduce  over- 
staffing.  Some  opposition  parties  also  fear  that  public  assets  will 
be  allocated  among  "friends"  of  government  officials,  with  the 
result  being  the  creation  of  private  monopolies.  Observers 
anticipate  that  certain  "strategic"  industries,  including  much 
mining  and  defense  production,  will  remain  in  the  public  sec- 
tor and  that  the  best  the  administration  can  hope  for  would  be 
to  force  them  to  approximate  private-  sector  practices.  More- 
over, certain  privatization  moves,  particularly  the  sale  of 
cement  mills  belonging  to  the  public  enterprise  Citosan,  and  a 
controlling  stake  in  the  airport  management  company  Havas, 
were  reversed  by  the  Constitutional  Court  on  administrative 
grounds. 

After  becoming  prime  minister,  (filler  accepted  the  existing 
legislation  on  privatization  and  even  sought  wider  powers  to 
hasten  the  process.  Law  3291,  passed  in  1986,  had  established 
the  Public  Participation  Administration,  which  would  control 
SEEs  designated  for  privatization  and  prepare  them  for  the 
process.  In  late  1994,  the  National  Assembly  passed  a  bill  intro- 
duced by  (filler  to  revamp  the  administrative  procedures  deal- 
ing with  privatization. 

The  bill  established  the  Privatization  Administration  to 
carry  out  technical  work  and  a  Privatization  High  Board  to 
make  final  decisions.  The  latter  would  control  the  Privatization 
Fund  into  which  revenues  were  to  be  channeled.  The  Privatiza- 
tion High  Board  would  consist  of  the  prime  minister,  the  minis- 
ter of  state  "responsible  for  privatization,"  and  the  ministers  of 
finance  and  industry  and  trade.  The  board  was  also  to  be 
responsible  for  deciding  which  public  enterprises  are  of  special 
strategic  importance  and  in  which  the  state  should  retain  pref- 
erence shares.  Turkish  Petroleum,  Ziraat  Bank,  Halk  Bank, 
Turkish  Airlines,  and  the  Soil  Products  Office  Alkaloid  Plant 
were  placed  in  the  latter  category.  Railroads,  airports,  and  the 
General  Management  for  Trade  in  Tobacco,  Tobacco  Products, 
and  Alcoholic  Spirits  (Tiitun,  Tiitun  Mamulleri,  Tuz  ve  Alkol 
Isletmeleri  Genel  Mudurlugii — TEKEL)  were  not  designated 
to  be  privatized  in  the  mid-1990s.  Privatization  of  telecommuni- 
cations and  the  electricity  production  and  distribution  board 
were  to  be  dealt  with  in  separate  legislation.  All  other  types  of 
SEEs  were  again  targeted  for  privatization  in  various  ways, 
including  the  sale  of  all  or  parts  of  a  company  through  share 


171 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

offers,  block  sales,  auctions,  and  the  transfer  of  plants  to  pri- 
vate domestic  and  foreign  entities  and  to  companies  formed  by 
workers  and  local  townspeople.  Some  of  the  early  candidates 
were  the  Eregli  Iron  and  Steelworks,  the  Turkish  Petroleum 
Refineries  Corporation  (Ttirkiye  Petrol  Refinerileri  As — 
TUPRAS),  the  state  oil  products  distributor  (Petrol  Ofisi),  the 
petrochemicals  company  (Petkim),  the  industrial  interests  of 
the  state  holding  company,  Sumerbank,  the  national  airline 
(Turkish  Airlines),  and  the  airport  company  (Havas).  The  bill 
also  set  guidelines  to  prevent  the  formation  of  private  monopo- 
lies and  methods  for  dealing  with  workers  who  lose  their  jobs. 
Workers  made  redundant  would  continue  to  receive  their 
wages  for  up  to  eight  months  and,  depending  on  length  of  ser- 
vice, would  get  pensions  or  severance  pay. 

Development  Planning 

Turkey  first  introduced  five-year  plans  in  the  1930s  as  part  of 
the  etatist  industrialization  drive.  The  first  five-year  plan  began 
in  1934.  A  second  plan  was  drafted  but  only  partially  imple- 
mented because  of  World  War  II.  These  early  plans  were  largely 
lists  of  desirable  projects,  but  they  provided  guidance  for  the 
development  of  infrastructure,  mining,  and  manufacturing. 
During  the  1950s,  the  Democrat  Party  (DP)  eliminated  central 
economic  planning,  but  the  1961  constitution  made  social  and 
economic  planning  a  state  duty.  In  1961  the  government  estab- 
lished the  State  Planning  Organization  (SPO),  which  was  given 
responsibility  for  preparing  long-term  and  annual  plans,  fol- 
lowing up  on  plan  implementation,  and  advising  on  current 
economic  policy.  The  SPO  comes  under  the  prime  minister's 
office  and  receives  policy  direction  from  the  High  Planning 
Council  (also  seen  as  the  Supreme  Planning  Council),  which  is 
chaired  by  the  prime  minister  and  includes  cabinet  ministers. 
The  Central  Planning  Organization,  the  secretariat  of  the  High 
Planning  Council,  formulates  the  strategy  and  broad  targets  on 
which  the  SPO  bases  detailed  plans.  Plan  targets  are  binding 
for  the  public  sector  but  only  indicative  for  private  enterprises. 

SPO  plans  include — in  addition  to  investment  levels — mac- 
roeconomic  targets,  social  goals,  and  policy  recommendations 
for  individual  subsectors  of  the  economy.  Turkey  was  one  of  the 
first  countries  to  develop  regional  planning,  a  major  challenge 
given  the  limited  development  of  eastern  and  southeastern 
Anatolia.  The  SPO  has  approached  planning  from  a  long-term 
perspective  and  drew  up  the  First  Five- Year  Plan  (1963-67)  and 


172 


The  Economy 


the  Second  Five-Year  Plan  (1968-72)  in  the  context  of  what 
should  be  accomplished  by  the  mid-1970s.  Similarly,  develop- 
ment goals  for  1995,  including  a  customs  union  with  the  EC, 
were  set  in  the  Third  Five-Year  Plan  (1973-77)  and  the  Fourth 
Five-Year  Plan  (1979-83).  Successive  plans  took  stock  of  prob- 
lems and  previous  accomplishments,  but  many  policy  sugges- 
tions were  never  effectively  implemented. 

Early  plans  were  heavily  weighted  toward  manufacturing, 
import  substitution,  and  the  intermediate  goods  sector.  The 
economic  and  political  disorder  of  the  late  1970s,  however, 
made  it  impossible  to  achieve  plan  targets.  After  the  1980  coup, 
the  Fourth  Five-Year  Plan  was  modified  to  favor  the  private  sec- 
tor, labor-intensive  and  export-oriented  projects,  and  invest- 
ments that  would  pay  for  themselves  relatively  quickly.  The 
Ozal  administration  delayed  the  Fifth  Five-Year  Plan  (1984-89) 
for  one  year  to  take  account  of  the  structural  reform  program 
introduced  in  1983.  Unlike  earlier  plans,  the  Fifth  Five-Year 
Plan  called  for  a  smaller  state  sector.  According  to  the  plan,  the 
state  would  take  more  of  a  general  supervisory  role  than  it  had 
in  the  past,  concentrating  on  encouraging  private  economic 
actors.  Nevertheless,  the  state  was  to  continue  an  aggressive 
program  of  infrastructure  investments  to  clear  bottlenecks  in 
energy,  transport,  and  other  sectors. 

In  May  1989,  the  government  published  the  1990-95  Devel- 
opment Plan.  The  plan  called  for  overall  economic  growth  of  7 
percent  per  year.  The  growth  of  private-sector  investment  was 
targeted  at  an  average  of  11  percent  per  year,  whereas  the  aim 
was  to  increase  exports  15  percent  per  year.  The  inflation  rate 
was  targeted  at  10  percent  per  year.  As  it  developed,  although 
high  growth  rates  were  maintained  during  the  1990-95  period, 
they  came  at  the  cost  of  increased  foreign  and  domestic  bor- 
rowing, which  funded  an  inflationary  government  budgetary 
and  monetary  policy.  Rapid  rates  of  growth  also  were  boosted 
by  foreign  direct  investment.  Excessive  borrowing  and  domes- 
tic political  problems  led  to  a  balance  of  payments  crisis  that 
sharply  reduced  domestic  investment  rates  and  ultimately  led 
to  a  decline  in  incomes.  Whereas  the  development  plan  had 
called  for  high  growth  rates  and  macroeconomic  stability,  Tur- 
key actually  has  experienced  high  growth  rates  and  macroeco- 
nomic instability. 

Budget 

Public-sector  spending  is  the  most  important  means  of  state 


173 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

intervention  in  the  Turkish  economy.  The  consolidated  gov- 
ernment budget  comprises  central  government  spending  and  a 
number  of  annexed  budgets  of  such  partially  autonomous  enti- 
ties as  the  State  Highway  Administration,  state  monopolies,  and 
some  universities  and  academies.  Local  budgets  and  most  SEE 
budgets  generally  are  not  included  in  the  consolidated  budget, 
nor  are  special  and  extrabudgetary  funds.  The  most  important 
of  the  latter  are  the  Mass  Housing  Fund,  financed  from  luxury- 
import  duties;  the  Defense  Industry  Support  Fund,  financed 
from  levies  on  sales  of  gasoline,  cigarettes,  and  alcoholic  bever- 
ages; and  the  Public  Revenue  Sharing  Schemes  Fund.  The  par- 
tially autonomous  organizations  are  included  in  the 
calculations  for  the  public-sector  borrowing  requirement 
(PSBR). 

Since  1983  the  Treasury,  under  the  direct  control  of  the 
prime  minister's  office,  has  had  sole  responsibility  to  raise 
domestic  tax  revenues.  The  Ministry  of  Finance  and  the  SPO 
are  mainly  responsible  for  planning  spending  policies,  but  the 
minister  of  finance  presents  the  annual  budget  to  parliament, 
which  approves  the  annual  government  budget  and  legislates 
supplementary  appropriations  as  required  during  the  fiscal 
year,  at  times  making  significant  modifications. 

Turkish  governments  have  persistently  run  large  budget 
deficits,  which  have  fueled  inflation,  capital  flight,  and  heavy 
foreign  and  domestic  borrowing.  At  the  heart  of  this  problem 
is  the  political  system,  which  tends  to  be  largely  unrepresenta- 
tive even  when  democracy  is  formally  operating.  Prior  to  major 
elections,  governments  have  been  prone  to  boost  spending, 
particularly  salaries  for  government  workers.  Despite  recent 
modest  changes  to  this  system,  Turkish  governments  have  been 
averse  to  increasing  taxes  to  pay  for  their  high  spending.  Taxes, 
excluding  social  security  contributions,  are  still  around  20  per- 
cent of  GNP — the  lowest  figure  among  the  member  countries 
of  the  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Develop- 
ment. 

Prior  to  1980,  local  administrations  had  limited  revenue- 
earning  power  and  depended  heavily  on  funds  transferred 
from  the  central  government.  Even  with  such  transfers,  local 
governments  were  often  short  of  funds  needed  to  provide  ser- 
vices required  during  a  period  of  rapid  urbanization  when 
many  city  dwellers  lacked  even  the  most  basic  services.  After 
1980  reforms  significantly  strengthened  the  revenue  base  of 
municipalities,  in  part  by  providing  that  5  percent  of  govern- 


174 


The  Economy 


ment  tax  revenues  would  be  withheld  at  the  local  level.  In  1994 
(filler  also  attempted  to  increase  the  revenues  that  local  gov- 
ernments might  raise. 

During  the  early  and  mid-1980s,  the  government  made  seri- 
ous attempts  to  reduce  Turkey's  inflationary  budget  deficits, 
implementing  policies  to  streamline  government,  improve 
public  resources  allocation,  and  modernize  the  tax  system.  The 
government,  for  example,  designed  tax  reforms  to  increase  rev- 
enues and  to  reduce  inequities.  In  addition,  the  introduction 
of  a  lump  sum  tax  on  small  businesses  and  a  new  system  of 
income  tax  payments  for  self-employed  people  reduced  tax 
evasion.  The  government  also  started  to  tax  farmers'  incomes 
systematically  for  the  first  time  since  the  1920s.  Other  reforms 
strengthened  tax  administration,  established  new  tax  courts, 
and  instituted  heavier  penalties  for  tax  evasion. 

Overall,  the  consolidated  budget  deficit  declined  during  the 
1980s  as  a  result  of  the  reform  measures.  During  the  decade, 
the  deficit  averaged  3  percent  of  GNP.  However,  the  deficit 
went  up  in  the  1990s,  reaching  7.4  percent  in  1991,  6.1  percent 
in  1992,  9.8  percent  in  1993,  and  8  percent  in  1994  (see  table  6, 
Appendix  A).  The  1994  figure  includes  a  first-quarter  budget 
deficit  of  17  percent,  which  was  sharply  offset  in  subsequent 
quarters  after  the  promulgation  of  the  April  5  measures  and 
tight  supervision  by  the  IMF.  These  measures  more  than 
reversed  some  of  the  increases  in  wages  and  other  spending 
made  in  1992  and  1993.  Public-sector  borrowing  requirements 
have  been  much  higher  as  a  percentage  of  GNP.  After  averag- 
ing around  6  percent  during  the  1980s,  they  ranged  from 
about  10  to  17  percent  in  the  1990s. 

Agriculture 

Agriculture — the  occupation  of  the  majority  of  Turks — con- 
tinued to  be  a  crucial  sector  of  the  economy  in  the  mid-1990s, 
although  industrial  production  was  rising.  Turkey's  fertile  soil 
and  hard-working  farmers  make  the  country  one  of  the  few  in 
the  world  that  is  self-sufficient  in  terms  of  food.  Turkey's  great 
variety  of  microclimates  and  adequate  rainfall  permit  a  broad 
range  of  crops.  Farming  is  conducted  throughout  the  country, 
although  it  is  less  common  in  the  mountainous  eastern 
regions,  where  animal  husbandry  is  the  principal  activity.  In 
the  mid-1990s,  crop  cultivation  accounted  for  about  two-thirds 
and  livestock  for  one-third  of  the  gross  value  of  agricultural 


175 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

production;  forestry  and  fishing  combined  contributed  a  mini- 
mal amount. 

Agriculture's  share  in  overall  income  has  fallen  progres- 
sively, declining  from  almost  50  percent  of  GDP  in  1950  to 
around  15  percent  of  GDP  by  1993.  During  the  same  period, 
the  sector  grew  only  about  1  percent  faster  than  the  country's 
population,  and  per  capita  food  production  declined  in  abso- 
lute terms.  The  relatively  poor  showing  of  the  agricultural  sec- 
tor reflected  in  part  government  policies  that  had  made  rapid 
industrialization  a  national  priority  since  the  1930s.  In  addi- 
tion, farmers  were  slow  to  adopt  modern  techniques,  with  agri- 
cultural output  suffering  from  insufficient  mechanization, 
limited  use  of  fertilizer,  excessive  fallow  land,  and  unexploited 
water  resources.  The  result  has  been  low  yields. 

Despite  agriculture's  relative  decline  in  the  1980s  as  a  per- 
centage of  GDP,  the  sector  played  an  important  role  in  foreign 
trade.  Turkey  enjoys  a  comparative  advantage  in  many  agricul- 
tural products  and  exports  cereals,  pulses,  industrial  crops, 
sugar,  nuts,  fresh  and  dried  fruits,  vegetables,  olive  oil,  and  live- 
stock products.  The  main  export  markets  are  the  European 
Union  and  the  United  States — to  which  Turkey  primarily 
exports  dried  fruit  and  nuts,  cotton,  and  tobacco — and  the 
Middle  East,  which  primarily  imports  fresh  fruit,  vegetables, 
and  meat  from  Turkey.  As  late  as  1980,  agricultural  exports 
accounted  for  nearly  60  percent  of  the  total  value  of  exports.  In 
the  early  1990s,  agricultural  products  accounted  for  15  percent 
of  total  exports.  Around  50  percent  of  manufactured  exports 
originate  in  the  agricultural  sector;  counting  these  exports,  the 
agricultural  sector's  contribution  to  exports  again  would  rise  to 
around  60  percent. 

Agriculture  has  great  potential  for  further  development, 
provided  that  the  state  can  implement  successful  agrarian 
reforms  and  development  projects.  Observers  believe  that  to 
achieve  balanced  growth,  Turkey  needs  to  improve  the  training 
of  farmers,  make  better  seed  available,  upgrade  livestock  herds, 
standardize  products,  expand  food-processing  facilities 
(including  cold  storage  and  refrigerated  transport),  and  reor- 
ganize marketing  networks.  Since  1980  the  government  has 
encouraged  investments  in  packaging,  processing,  livestock, 
and  slaughterhouses,  and  has  imported  new  seed  varieties. 
These  efforts  had  a  modest  impact  on  overall  production  by 
the  mid-1990s. 


176 


Irrigation  of  an  olive  grove  in 
the  Izmit  area 
Courtesy  Hermine  Drey fuss 


Tea  plantation  nearArtvin, 
northeastern  Turkey;  olives 


and  tea  are  major 
Turkish  crops. 
Courtesy  Hermine  Dreyfus s 


The  failure  to  exploit  the  country's  great  agricultural  poten- 
tial has  contributed  to  Turkey's  periodic  economic  crises  and 
poses  serious  problems  for  future  development.  Glaring  ine- 
qualities of  income  between  urban  and  rural  residents — and 
among  segments  of  the  farm  population — have  created  social 
tensions  and  contributed  to  emigration  from  rural  to  urban 
areas.  Malnutrition  continues  to  threaten  segments  of  the  rural 
population,  especially  children.  The  Kurdish  insurgency  in 
eastern  Turkey  has  added  to  problems  in  some  rural  areas.  Ris- 
ing incomes  in  the  urban  areas  have  caused  increased  demand 
for  more  "exotic"  foodstuffs,  especially  meat  and  poultry.  Since 
1984  Turkey  has  liberalized  its  policy  on  food  imports,  partly  to 
meet  this  urban  demand  and  partly  to  offset  domestic  price 
pressure.  Many  previously  banned  luxury  food  imports  and 
imports  that  compete  with  domestically  produced  staples  are 
permitted  for  these  reasons;  in  turn,  the  growth  of  these 


177 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

imports  has  contributed  to  pressures  on  foreign  trade 
accounts.  Overall,  agricultural  output  needs  to  expand  along 
with  the  rest  of  the  economy  to  maintain  adequate  supplies  for 
industry  and  exports.  Longer-term  economic  growth  prospects 
and  macroeconomic  stability,  therefore,  depend  on  the  perfor- 
mance of  Turkey's  agricultural  sector  and  rural  incomes. 

Agricultural  Policy 

By  1980  Turkey  was  self-sufficient  in  food,  and  agricultural 
output  was  growing  at  a  respectable  rate,  albeit  more  slowly 
than  the  economy  as  a  whole.  Starting  in  the  early  1970s,  crop 
intensification  resulted  from  a  reduction  of  fallow  areas  and 
increased  use  of  fertilizer,  fuel,  and  pesticides.  The  livestock 
industry,  however,  showed  little  improvement  in  productivity, 
and  the  later  years  of  the  decade  saw  the  stagnation  of  all  agri- 
culture. Although  production  became  less  dependent  on  the 
weather  as  a  result  of  irrigation  and  high-yielding  varieties  of 
seeds,  these  methods  required  adequate  supplies  of  fertilizers, 
chemicals,  equipment,  and  fuel,  much  of  which  had  to  be 
imported. 

Productivity  shortcomings,  along  with  the  new  export-ori- 
ented development  strategy,  led  to  the  adoption  of  different 
agricultural  policies  after  1980.  Under  the  new  approach,  the 
government  switched  from  promoting  food  self-sufficiency  to 
maximizing  agriculture's  net  contribution  to  the  balance  of 
trade.  The  incentive  system  was  partially  dismantled,  fertilizer 
and  pesticide  subsidies  were  curtailed,  and  the  remaining  price 
supports  were  gradually  converted  to  floor  prices.  The  tight 
monetary  policy  limited  agricultural  credit,  but  real  interest 
rates  on  loans  to  farmers  remained  negative.  Nonetheless,  a 
high  proportion  of  defaults  by  farmers  occurred  on  loans  with 
high  interest  rates.  In  some  cases,  this  led  to  the  confiscation  of 
land,  tractors,  or  other  property  by  the  state,  prompting  one 
Turkish  daily,  Milliyet,  to  run  an  article  entitled,  "Bailiff  Officer: 
The  New  Lord  of  the  Peasants."  The  elimination  of  export 
licenses  and  minimum  export  prices,  along  with  currency 
devaluation,  an  export-incentive  system,  and  flat  domestic 
demand,  encouraged  agricultural  exports.  In  addition,  a  wider 
range  of  food  imports  was  permitted,  providing  competition 
for  domestic  products. 

The  government's  hope  of  rapidly  increasing  agricultural 
exports  was  slow  in  materializing,  and  total  values  fell  sharply  in 
the  mid-1980s.  This  decline  reflected  both  softer  demand 


178 


The  Economy 


abroad  (especially  in  the  Arab  oil-producing  countries)  and 
Turkey's  own  attempts  to  increase  the  share  of  agricultural 
products  processed  prior  to  export.  Still,  by  the  early  1990s 
agricultural  exports  had  risen,  with  the  most  dramatic  increase 
occurring  in  textiles  and  clothing,  which  depend  on  indige- 
nously grown  cotton. 

Despite  the  turn  toward  liberal  agricultural  policies,  govern- 
ment intervention  in  agriculture  remained  pervasive  in  the 
mid-1990s.  Many  of  the  institutions  established  between  1930 
and  1980  continue  to  play  important  roles  in  the  daily  life  of 
the  farmer,  and  many  old  attitudes  and  practices  remain.  A 
large  number  of  ministries,  agencies,  SEEs,  and  banks  adminis- 
ter government  price  supports,  credit  measures,  extension  and 
research  services,  and  irrigation  projects.  In  the  past,  overlap- 
ping responsibilities  and  lack  of  coordination  had  often 
diluted  the  effectiveness  of  government  activities.  Some 
progress  was  made  in  the  1980s,  however,  when  the  Ministry  of 
Agriculture,  Forestry,  and  Rural  Affairs  reorganized  its  eleven 
departments  into  five  general  directorates.  Subsequently,  the 
ministry  was  divided  into  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Rural 
Affairs  and  the  Ministry  of  Forestry. 

After  1980  the  government  reduced  budget  transfers  to 
agricultural  SEEs  and  decreased  the  level  of  price  supports,  but 
the  state  still  controlled  most  markets  in  the  sector.  Public  mar- 
keting agencies  and  marketing  or  credit  cooperatives  adminis- 
tered prices  and  handled  a  large  share  of  exports.  Several  of 
the  SEEs  involved  in  agricultural  production  had  been  slated 
for  privatization  in  the  early  1990s.  The  Meat  and  Fish  Board, 
the  Fodder  Industry  (Yem  Sanayili),  and  the  Milk  Industry 
Board  (SEK)  were  targeted  for  immediate  privatization  when 
they  were  placed  under  the  control  of  the  Public  Participation 
Administration.  However,  officials  in  1994  stated  that  they 
lacked  sufficient  funds  to  pay  the  sizable  debts  these  organiza- 
tions had  accumulated,  a  necessary  step  before  privatization. 

Nearly  all  farm  produce  except  livestock  and  fresh  fruits 
and  vegetables  has  support  prices,  which  became  more  effec- 
tive when  the  ministry  started  announcing  them  in  the  fall,  giv- 
ing farmers  time  to  choose  which  crops  would  be  most 
profitable.  For  most  crops  (except  tea,  sugar  beets,  and  opium, 
for  which  the  state  is  the  only  buyer),  farmers  can  choose 
between  selling  to  private  buyers  or  to  the  state.  Supports  stabi- 
lize crop  prices  and  improve  aggregate  farm  income  but  add  to 
the  disparities  of  income  between  large  and  small  farmers.  Sup- 


179 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

port  prices  grew  slowly  in  the  1980s  and  did  not  keep  up  with 
inflation.  However,  in  the  summer  of  1991,  in  anticipation  of 
the  forthcoming  elections,  Ozal's  Motherland  Party  govern- 
ment raised  all  support  prices  by  60  to  70  percent.  Subsequent 
governments  under  Demirel  and  (filler  maintained  increases 
in  support  prices  roughly  in  line  with  the  high  inflation  rate. 
During  1994,  however,  these  increases  were  not  maintained.  In 
addition,  the  Agricultural  Supply  Organization  provides  many 
farm  materials  at  subsidized  prices,  including  fertilizers,  pesti- 
cides, and  insecticides. 

The  Agricultural  Bank  of  Turkey  (Turkiye  Cumhuriyeti 
Ziraat  Bankasi — TCZB)  provides  most  loans  to  farmers  and 
cooperatives  and  closely  watches  agricultural  credit.  Although 
the  TCZB  was  intended  to  favor  small  farmers  in  the  distribu- 
tion of  credit,  its  loan  requirements  restrict  credit  for  the  many 
small  farmers  who  either  rent  or  lack  a  secure  title  to  land  or 
other  properties  needed  as  collateral.  Much  of  the  bank's  lend- 
ing consists  of  short-term  loans  extended  to  cooperatives  for 
commodity  price  support.  Farmers  also  obtain  credit  from  mer- 
chants, wealthy  farmers,  and  money  lenders,  often  at  extortion- 
ate interest  rates.  Much  of  the  World  Bank's  lending  for 
agricultural  projects  in  Turkey  is  channeled  through  the  TCZB. 

Agricultural  extension  and  research  services  are  poorly 
organized  and  generally  inadequate  because  of  shortages  of 
qualified  advisers,  transportation,  and  equipment.  Well-trained 
personnel  willing  to  work  in  the  field  are  difficult  to  find,  and 
agricultural  research  is  fragmented  among  more  than  ninety 
government  and  university  institutes.  Research  is  organized  by 
commodity,  with  independent  units  for  such  major  crops  as 
cotton,  tobacco,  and  citrus  fruit.  Observers  note  that  coordina- 
tion of  the  efforts  of  different  research  units  and  links  between 
extension  services  are  inadequate.  During  the  mid-1980s,  the 
government  attempted  to  strengthen  and  rationalize  research 
and  extension  services,  but  the  organizational  complexity  of 
the  entities  involved  made  reform  difficult. 

Irrigation 

Getting  enough  water  to  crops  is  a  major  problem  for  many 
Turkish  farmers.  Rainfall  tends  to  be  relatively  abundant  and 
regular  in  the  coastal  areas  because  of  the  mountains  behind 
them.  However,  the  bulk  of  the  agricultural  land  is  on  the  Ana- 
tolian Plateau,  which  receives  less  rainfall  because  it  is  ringed 
by  mountains.  Although  rainfall  on  the  plateau  varies  consider- 


180 


The  Economy 


ably  among  regions,  it  is  barely  adequate  over  large  areas.  In 
addition,  the  amount  and  time  of  rains  vary  sharply  from  year 
to  year,  causing  sharp  fluctuations  in  harvests.  Since  World  War 
II,  officials  have  stressed  irrigation  as  a  means  of  increasing  and 
stabilizing  farm  output,  and  irrigation  projects  have  consumed 
more  than  half  of  public  investment  in  agriculture. 

In  the  mid-1980s,  observers  estimated  that  private  irriga- 
tion, depending  on  weirs  and  small  barrages  to  direct  water 
into  fields,  reached  up  to  1  million  hectares.  In  addition,  some 
farmers  pumped  water  from  wells  to  irrigate  their  own  fields. 
Development  of  large-scale  irrigation  was  delayed  until  the 
1960s.  Public-sector  irrigation  systems,  built  and  operated  by 
the  General  Directorate  of  State  Hydraulic  Works  (Devlet  Su 
Isleri — DSI)  under  the  Ministry  of  Energy  and  Natural 
Resources,  tend  to  be  large  and  costly.  Most  provide  water  for 
entire  valleys,  and  some  large  projects — for  example,  the 
Southeast  Anatolian  Project  (Guneydogu  Anadolu  Projesi — 
GAP) — combine  water  supplies  for  urban  areas,  protection 
from  flooding,  hydroelectric  power,  and  irrigation.  Irrigation 
projects  are  dispersed  throughout  the  country,  but  most  are 
concentrated  in  the  coastal  regions  of  the  Aegean  and  Mediter- 
ranean seas,  where  the  longer  growing  seasons  are  particularly 
favorable  to  crops.  Public  irrigation  water  was  available  to  3.7 
million  hectares  in  the  mid-1990s,  although  the  area  irrigated 
with  public  water  totaled  about  3  million  hectares. 

Deficiencies  in  irrigation  included  a  serious  lag  between  the 
construction  of  the  main  parts  of  an  irrigation  system  and  the 
completion  of  land  leveling  and  drainage  on  farms.  Also,  crop 
research  and  farmer  training  were  inadequate  to  assure  the 
planting  of  suitable  crops  to  obtain  maximum  yields  from  irri- 
gated land.  In  the  late  1970s,  government  officials  estimated 
that  only  one-third  of  the  irrigated  land  was  being  cultivated  to 
its  full  potential.  Moreover,  low  user  fees  did  not  initially  per- 
mit the  authorities  to  regain  their  initial  investments;  the  fees 
were  adjusted  in  the  1980s,  however. 

Major  projects  were  planned  to  expand  the  irrigation  sys- 
tem because  government  surveys  had  indicated  that  irrigation 
of  up  to  8.7  million  hectares  was  possible.  The  most  important 
project  of  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s  is  the  GAP,  which  is 
linked  with  the  2,400-megawatt  Atatiirk  Dam  on  the  Euphrates 
River  and  is  expected  to  irrigate  1.7  million  hectares  when  it  is 
completed  in  2002.  The  system  consists  of  a  twin-bore  24.6-kilo- 
meter tunnel,  which  will  take  water  from  the  reservoir  to  irri- 


181 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

gate  the  plains  around  Harran,  Mardin,  and  Ceylanpinar  in 
southeastern  Turkey.  In  the  GAP  region,  farmers  face  a  six- 
month  dry  season  allowing  them  only  one  cash  harvest  per 
year.  Irrigation  will  probably  enable  expansion  to  two  or  even 
three  harvests.  Crop  rotation,  which  is  largely  unknown  in 
areas  without  irrigation,  has  been  introduced  in  the  GAP 
region.  Winter  vegetables  are  expected  to  alternate  with  cotton 
as  the  summer  crop.  Although  wheat  and  pulses  dominate 
cropping  patterns,  cotton  could  take  a  larger  share  as  access  to 
water  increases.  The  government  projects  that  the  GAP  will 
increase  Turkish  wheat  production  by  more  than  50  percent, 
barley  by  a  similar  figure,  and  the  region's  production  of  cotton 
by  more  than  four  times  by  2005,  thus  increasing  national  cot- 
ton production  by  60  percent.  The  value  of  food  surpluses 
expected  to  result  from  this  project  is  estimated  at  US$5  bil- 
lion. 

Land  Use 

Turkey's  land  surface  totals  about  78  million  hectares,  of 
which  roughly  48  million  hectares  were  being  used  for  some 
form  of  agriculture  by  1991.  There  were  almost  24.2  million 
hectares  in  field  crops,  of  which  5.2  million  lay  fallow.  Another 
3.7  million  hectares  were  in  use  as  vineyards,  orchards,  and 
olive  groves,  and  20.2  million  hectares  were  covered  by  forests 
and  other  woodlands.  Other  land  areas  accounted  for  about  29 
million  hectares;  included  in  this  figure  was  land  classified  as 
lakes,  marshes,  wasteland,  and  built-up  areas.  The  "other"  cate- 
gory also  included  about  9  million  hectares  of  permanent  pas- 
tureland. 

During  the  twentieth  century,  population  pressure  resulted 
in  the  expansion  of  farmland.  The  cultivated  area  increased 
from  about  8  million  hectares  in  the  1920s  to  nearly  19  million 
hectares  in  1952  and  to  almost  28  million  hectares  by  1991. 
Using  Marshall  Plan  credits  that  first  became  available  in  1948, 
Turkey  began  to  import  large  numbers  of  tractors,  which  made 
it  feasible  to  expand  cultivation  of  marginal  lands,  especially  on 
the  Anatolian  Plateau.  Although  total  production  grew  rapidly, 
average  yields  did  not.  By  about  1970,  nearly  all  arable  land  was 
under  cultivation. 

Cultivation  increased  primarily  at  the  expense  of  meadows 
and  grasslands,  which  diminished  from  about  46  million  hec- 
tares in  the  mid-1920s  to  about  14  million  hectares  in  the  mid- 
1980s.  Although  cultivation  of  the  larger  area  made  greater 


182 


Pickers  of  sultana  grapes  in 
fields  east  of  Izmir, 
western  Turkey 
Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


agricultural  production  possible  over  the  short  run,  it  created 
long-term  problems  for  livestock  production.  It  also  resulted  in 
the  destruction  of  tree  cover  and  the  plowing  of  marginal  fields 
that  were  too  steep  and  that  received  barely  sufficient  rainfall 
even  in  normal  years.  By  the  early  1960s,  government  agents 
were  encouraging  farmers  to  practice  contour  plowing  and  to 
take  other  measures  to  minimize  erosion,  but  to  little  effect.  By 
the  late  1970s,  more  than  half  the  country's  land  was  judged  to 
have  serious  erosion  problems,  and  some  plains  regions  were 
experiencing  dust-bowl  conditions.  All  of  Turkey  was  affected, 
with  the  mountainous  eastern  provinces  hit  hardest.  Some 
areas  lost  all  topsoil  and  could  support  few  plants. 

In  the  1970s,  the  government  conducted  land-use  studies 
and  found  that  more  than  one-fifth  of  the  land  should  have 
been  used  differently  to  achieve  optimum  long-term  produc- 
tion. Misuse  was  greatest  in  rain-fed  cropped  fields,  but  some 
grazing  land  and  wasteland  were  found  better  suited  to  other 
uses  such  as  cropping  and  forestry.  Turkey's  unusually  high 
proportion  of  fallow  land  also  limited  production;  in  1981  the 
government  began  encouraging  double  cropping  and  the 
planting  of  feed  crops  on  fallow  fields.  The  government  also 
was  considering  a  broad  land-use  policy.  However,  reform 
proved  difficult  because  of  government  inefficiency  and  the 
lack  of  alternative  crops  in  areas  cut  off  from  markets,  where 
farmers  had  little  choice  but  to  use  their  land  to  grow  grain  to 
feed  their  families.  Expansion  of  the  road  network,  irrigation 
facilities,  and  extension  services  continued  to  offer  hope  for 
eventual  improvements  in  land  use. 

Land  Tenure 

From  the  time  of  Ataturk,  it  has  been  generally  recognized 
that  land  reform  would  speed  rural  development.  Most  atten- 
tion focused  on  land  redistribution — a  highly  charged  political 
issue.  People  who  favored  land  reform  pointed  to  the  higher 
yield  achieved  by  owner-operators  and  attacked  absentee  land- 
lords. Opponents  pointed  out  that  land  reform  would  not  solve 
the  difficulties  of  the  rural  population  because  there  was  insuf- 
ficient land  to  establish  farms  large  enough  to  support  families. 
Whatever  the  merits  of  land  reform  proposals,  large  landown- 
ers effectively  blocked  most  action,  and  governments  often 
lacked  the  will  to  implement  those  measures  that  were  enacted. 
Moreover,  landless  peasants  continued  to  migrate  to  the  cities 
in  sufficient  numbers  to  reduce  the  pressure  for  reform. 


184 


The  Economy 


Historically,  Turkey  has  been  a  land  inhabited  by  indepen- 
dent peasants.  The  Ottoman  state  restricted  the  growth  of  a 
landowning  class;  and  in  the  early  years  of  Ottoman  rule,  the 
central  government  retained  ownership  of  most  of  the  land, 
which  was  leased  to  farmers  under  relatively  secure  tenure 
arrangements.  To  maintain  farms  large  enough  to  support  a 
family  and  a  pair  of  oxen,  the  Ottomans  exempted  land  from 
Muslim  inheritance  policy,  a  practice  subsequently  reversed  as 
the  state  reinstituted  Islamic  inheritance  practices,  sold  land  to 
gain  revenues,  and  authorized  land  transfers.  These  changes 
favored  the  growth  of  a  class  of  large  landowners  during  the  lat- 
ter decades  of  the  empire.  By  1923  landownership  had  shifted 
in  favor  of  a  small  group  with  large  holdings.  However,  during 
the  republican  period  land  concentration  declined,  a  develop- 
ment that  perhaps  reflected  the  effects  of  division  through 
inheritance  or  the  attraction  of  alternative  investments.  At  the 
same  time,  the  opening  of  new  areas  to  cultivation  made  land 
available  to  those  farmers  without  holdings. 

Because  no  comprehensive  cadastral  surveys  have  been  car- 
ried out,  landownership  data  are  still  poor  in  the  mid-1990s, 
but  a  general  picture  of  ownership  patterns  emerges.  Accord- 
ing to  the  1980  agricultural  census,  about  78  percent  of  the 
farms  consisted  of  five  hectares  or  less  and  together  accounted 
for  60  percent  of  farmland.  About  23  percent  of  the  farms  were 
between  five  and  twenty  hectares  in  size,  accounting  for 
another  18  percent  of  the  land.  Fewer  than  4  percent  of  the 
farms  covered  more  than  twenty  hectares,  although  these  occu- 
pied more  than  15  percent  of  the  farmland.  Few  farms 
exceeded  100  hectares.  Although  experts  believed  that  land- 
ownership  was  more  concentrated  than  data  on  farm  size 
implied,  it  was  clear  that  Turkey  had  more  equal  distribution  of 
land  than  did  many  other  developing  countries. 

Some  observers  estimate  that,  despite  widespread  leasing 
and  sharecropping,  a  majority  of  farms  are  owner  operated. 
However,  tenure  patterns  vary  significantly  among  regions, 
reflecting  different  geographical  conditions  and  historical 
developments.  In  general,  Islamic  inheritance  practices,  which 
establish  set  shares  for  each  male  and  female  child,  cause  frag- 
mented holdings  and  make  leasing  and  sharecropping  exten- 
sive. Joint  ownership  of  land  is  common,  and  even  very  small 
farms  normally  consist  of  several  noncontiguous  plots.  Farmers 
often  rent  out  some  of  their  own  land  while  leasing  or  share- 
cropping  other  plots  in  order  to  till  areas  reasonably  close 


185 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

together  and  large  enough  to  support  their  families.  Owners  of 
small  plots  may  rent  out  their  land  and  work  on  other  farms  or 
in  town.  Owners  of  large  holdings,  sometimes  whole  villages, 
usually  rent  out  all  or  most  of  their  land.  Between  one-tenth 
and  one-fifth  of  farmers  lease  or  sharecrop  the  land  they  till, 
and  landless  rural  families  also  work  as  farm  laborers. 

Tenancy  arrangements  are  many  and  complex.  Some  lease- 
holds can  be  inherited,  but  many  tenants  lack  sufficient  secu- 
rity to  make  a  long-term  commitment  to  the  soil  they  till. 
Sharecroppers  generally  receive  about  half  of  the  crop,  with 
the  owner  supplying  inputs  such  as  seed  and  fertilizer.  Grazing 
rights  are  often  held  by  groups  rather  than  individuals.  Many 
villages  have  common  pastures  open  to  the  village  herd.  Culti- 
vated areas  have  expanded  as  individuals  appropriate  village 
pastureland  to  grow  grains,  a  process  that  not  only  has  caused 
village  strife  but  also  has  worsened  erosion. 

After  1950  the  commercialization  of  agriculture  accelerated 
changes  in  land-use  and  tenure  patterns.  Many  of  the  large 
holdings  on  the  coastal  plains  of  the  Aegean  Sea  and  Mediter- 
ranean Sea  were  converted  to  modern  farms,  often  benefiting 
from  irrigation  projects  and  specializing  in  high-value  fruits,  or 
industrial  crops.  Landless  families  supplied  the  labor  for  such 
modern  farms,  while  sharecroppers  and  owners  of  small  farms 
tilled  the  adjacent  land.  In  these  more  fertile  areas,  a  five-hect- 
are farm  might  produce  as  much  income  as  a  twenty-hectare 
farm  in  the  semiarid  central  Anatolian  Plateau.  Southeastern 
Anatolia,  one  of  the  poorest  regions  of  Turkey,  included  feu- 
dal-style landlords  who  controlled  entire  villages  and  many 
landless  families. 

Although  Atatiirk  had  stressed  the  need  for  upper  and 
lower  limits  on  landownership,  the  latter  to  halt  the  fragmenta- 
tion process,  little  in  the  way  of  effective  land  reform  had  been 
carried  out  by  the  early  1990s.  Nevertheless,  more  than  3  mil- 
lion hectares  had  been  distributed  to  landless  farmers  between 
the  1920s  and  1970,  most  of  it  state  land. 

The  problems  of  land  tenure  remain,  and  some  have  wors- 
ened. Many  farms  are  too  small  to  support  a  family  and  too 
fragmented  for  efficient  cultivation.  Tenancy  arrangements 
foster  neither  long-term  soil  productivity  nor  the  welfare  of 
tenants.  In  many  areas,  the  rural  poor  are  becoming  poorer 
while  land  better  suited  to  grazing  continues  to  be  converted  to 
grain  fields.  At  the  same  time,  however,  many  large  landhold- 
ings  have  been  turned  into  productive  modern  farms  that  con- 


186 


The  Economy 


tribute  to  the  country's  improved  agricultural  performance. 
Major  irrigation  projects  in  the  Euphrates  River  Valley  and  else- 
where offer  the  prospect  of  increasing  the  supply  of  productive 
land.  The  declining  population  growth  rate  has  reduced  the 
pressure  for  land  reform,  and  industrialization  offers  an  alter- 
native for  landless  farm  workers,  who  prefer  city  life  to  that  of 
rural  areas. 

Cropping  Patterns  and  Production 

Turkey's  varied  ecology  allows  farmers  to  grow  many  crops, 
yet  the  bulk  of  the  arable  land  and  the  greater  part  of  the  farm 
population  traditionally  have  been  dedicated  to  producing 
cereal  crops,  which  supply  70  percent  of  Turkey's  food  con- 
sumption in  terms  of  calories.  As  of  1992,  cereal  crops  occu- 
pied 12.5  million  hectares  or  more  than  half  of  the  country's 
cultivated  area.  Wheat  accounted  for  about  9  million  hectares 
of  this  area,  and  barley  for  about  3  million  hectares.  Other 
grain  crops  include  rye,  millet,  corn,  and  rice.  Grains  are  pro- 
duced in  most  parts  of  the  country  (see  fig.  9). 

Small  or  subsistence  farmers  produce  most  of  Turkey's 
grain.  Because  most  fields  depend  on  rainfall,  production  var- 
ies considerably  from  year  to  year.  Farmers  traditionally  have 
left  grain  fields  fallow  for  a  year  to  allow  water  to  accumulate  in 
the  soil.  Although  the  government  encourages  planting  soy- 
beans as  a  secondary  crop  following  the  wheat  crop,  farmers 
have  been  slow  to  adopt  the  practice.  The  integration  of  forage 
crops  into  crop  rotation  and  the  elimination  of  fallow  periods 
offer  the  possibility  of  increased  soil  fertility  and  moisture 
retention. 

Wheat  has  long  been  the  basic  food  in  the  Turkish  diet,  gen- 
erally eaten  in  the  form  of  bread — of  which  Turkish  per  capita 
consumption  ranks  among  the  highest  in  the  world.  Farmers 
consume  about  half  of  the  crop;  the  other  half  moves  through 
commercial  channels.  The  Soil  Products  Office  buys  up  to  one- 
fifth  of  the  crop  at  support  prices,  which  largely  determine  the 
prices  for  the  open  market,  and  handles  most  imports  and 
exports  of  grain. 

Production  increases  in  the  late  1970s  turned  the  country 
into  a  wheat  exporter.  After  1980  the  country  also  imported 
small  amounts  of  high-quality  wheat  to  improve  baked  prod- 
ucts. Steady  increases  continued  in  the  1980s,  with  wheat  pro- 
duction averaging  15  million  tons.  Even  in  the  drought- 
stricken  1989  harvest,  wheat  production  totaled  16.2  million 


187 


The  Economy 


tons.  By  the  early  1990s,  wheat  production  was  averaging  20 
million  tons  per  year. 

Barley  production  did  not  rise  substantially  after  the  1960s; 
crops  averaged  6  million  tons  per  year  in  the  1980s  and  7  mil- 
lion tons  in  the  early  1990s.  One  reason  for  the  slow  growth  in 
barley  production  was  a  change  in  dietary  habits:  whereas  bar- 
ley previously  had  been  a  staple  food,  it  came  to  be  used  almost 
exclusively  as  animal  feed  or  for  export.  Harvests  of  corn, 
which  is  also  used  for  feed,  increased  from  an  average  of  about 
1.1  million  tons  per  year  during  the  1970s  to  around  2  million 
tons  per  year  in  the  early  1990s  (see  table  7,  Appendix  A). 

Turkey  is  the  main  pulse  producer  in  the  Middle  East,  and 
pulse  output  increased  dramatically  from  an  annual  average  of 
617,000  tons  in  the  1970-75  period  to  more  than  1.1  million 
tons  in  the  1980-85  period.  By  the  early  1990s,  however,  pulse 
output  had  fallen  to  about  860,000  tons  in  1990  and  610,000 
tons  in  1992.  The  country  made  a  major  effort  to  meet  the 
increased  demand  for  dry  beans,  lentils,  and  peas  in  the  Mid- 
dle East,  and  exported  increasing  amounts  during  the  1980s. 
Nevertheless,  declining  export  demand  in  the  1990s  and  better 
opportunities  in  raising  other  crops  led  to  falling  output. 

Cotton  is  the  major  industrial  crop  in  terms  of  value,  supply- 
ing seed  for  vegetable  oil  and  fiber  for  textiles,  a  major  export. 
In  the  1950s  and  1960s,  cotton  cultivation  increased  rapidly  fol- 
lowing the  introduction  of  new  varieties  and  the  extension  of 
irrigation.  The  main  cotton  areas  are  on  the  coastal  plains  of 
the  south  and  southwest,  where  yields  have  exceeded  interna- 
tional averages  since  the  1950s.  Annual  output  of  cotton  lint 
rose  from  about  145,000  tons  in  the  early  1950s  to  about 
600,000  tons  in  the  early  1990s.  Exports  averaged  10  percent  of 
production  in  the  early  1990s,  having  fallen  from  around  30 
percent  in  the  1980s. 

Tobacco  is  a  classic  industrial  crop,  but  output  rose  rela- 
tively slowly  after  World  War  II,  reaching  about  200,000  tons 
per  year  by  the  1980s  and  300,000  tons  by  the  early  1990s. 
European  consumers'  preference  for  Virginia  tobacco  was  a 
factor  in  the  slow  expansion,  although  foreign  investment  in 
the  domestic  tobacco  industry  in  the  1980s  spurred  produc- 
tion. 

Sugar  beet  production  expanded  in  the  1950s  and  1960s, 
leveling  off  at  a  rate  sufficient  to  produce  an  annual  average  of 
677,000  tons  during  the  first  half  of  the  1970s.  The  yield  met 
domestic  needs  and  allowed  limited  exports.  Production 


189 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

jumped  sharply,  to  about  1.5  million  tons  in  1981,  and  ended 
the  decade  at  around  11  million  tons  in  1989.  The  annual  aver- 
age in  the  early  1990s  was  14  million  tons. 

Oilseed  cultivation  expanded  during  the  1980s  and  1990s, 
but  harvests  averaging  about  2  million  tons  in  the  latter  half  of 
the  1980s  and  early  1990s  continued  to  lag  behind  consump- 
tion, causing  Turkey  to  import  vegetable  oils.  Production  of 
sunflower  seeds,  the  main  source  of  edible  oil,  declined,  and 
the  use  of  degenerated  seed  resulted  in  lower  oil  production. 
In  1987  Turkey  produced  1.1  million  tons  of  sunflower  seeds; 
by  1992  production  had  declined  to  950,000  tons.  Olive  pro- 
duction has  experienced  a  two-year  cycle  with  small  crops  every 
other  year. 

Cultivation  of  opium  poppies  as  a  field  crop  traditionally 
was  fairly  extensive  in  parts  of  the  Anatolian  Plateau.  The 
opium  gum  had  cash  value,  and  the  plant  served  villagers  as 
food,  forage,  and  thatch.  Official  figures  showed  that  during 
the  second  half  of  the  1960s,  annual  production  of  opium  gum 
averaged  about  110  tons  per  year.  During  this  period,  the  crop 
played  an  important  role  in  the  international  illegal  drug 
trade.  With  the  United  States  pushing  for  a  ban  on  poppy  culti- 
vation, after  1974  the  Turkish  government  strictly  controlled 
poppy  harvesting,  requiring  that  the  mature  pod  be  removed 
and  processed  at  a  state-run  plant.  During  the  first  half  of  the 
1990s,  the  area  sown  with  opium  ranged  from  7,000  to  19,000 
hectares,  producing  between  3,700  and  13,700  tons  of  opium 
pods.  Most  observers  believed  that  government  measures  were 
effective  in  keeping  opium  derivatives  in  legal  channels  with- 
out causing  undue  hardship  to  farmers. 

During  the  mid-1990s,  cultivation  of  fruit,  nuts,  and  vegeta- 
bles contributed  nearly  33  percent  of  the  value  of  crop  produc- 
tion, although  such  cultivation  occupied  only  about  13  percent 
of  cultivated  land.  Improved  export  possibilities  led  to  the 
expansion  of  fruit  and  vegetable  hectarage  during  the  1980s 
and  1990s;  in  1991  about  593,000  hectares  were  devoted  to 
green  vegetables,  tomatoes,  and  other  produce,  of  which  about 
20,000  hectares  were  grown  in  greenhouses.  Turkey  is  a  major 
producer  of  high-quality  hazelnuts,  despite  stiff  competition  in 
international  markets  from  rising  production  in  Spain,  the 
United  States,  and  Italy.  The  annual  crop  averages  400,000  tons 
per  year,  roughly  half  of  which  is  exported.  Turkey  is  also  a 
major  producer  and  exporter  of  various  fruits,  including 
grapes,  sultana  raisins,  citrus  fruits,  and  melons.  Total  fruit  and 


190 


The  Economy 


vegetable  exports  yielded  Turkey  nearly  US$1  billion  per  year 
in  the  early  1990s. 

Livestock 

Animal  husbandry  is  an  important  part  of  Turkey's  agricul- 
tural sector  and  economy.  Livestock  products,  including  meat, 
milk,  eggs,  wool,  and  hides,  contributed  more  than  33  percent 
of  the  value  of  agricultural  output  in  the  mid-1990s.  Sheep  and 
cattle  are  kept  mainly  on  the  grazing  lands  of  Anatolia.  Despite 
growing  demand  for  animal  products  in  Turkey's  cities  as 
incomes  rose,  animal  numbers  were  static  in  the  1980s  and  fell 
in  the  early  1990s.  Although  yields  were  growing,  traditional 
methods  kept  the  livestock  industry  from  achieving  its  consid- 
erable potential.  Only  20  percent  of  cattle,  for  example,  were 
high-yielding  variety  breeds.  The  oil  boom  in  the  Persian  Gulf, 
however,  led  to  an  expansion  of  export  markets  and  to  major 
investments  in  the  meat  industry  of  the  eastern  Turkish  towns 
of  Erzurum  and  Van.  In  1992  meat  exports  totaled  US$140  mil- 
lion; exports,  however,  were  being  hurt  by  the  UN  embargo  on 
Iraq.  Wool  is  also  a  significant  export.  Traditional  Turkish 
sheep  varieties  produce  a  coarse  wool  suitable  for  carpets  and 
blankets  rather  than  clothing.  Merino  sheep,  which  produce  a 
finer  wool,  have  been  introduced  in  the  Bursa  region. 

During  the  1950s,  officials  expected  that  livestock  produc- 
tion would  decline  as  grain  cultivation  increased  at  the  expense 
of  grazing  lands.  In  fact,  the  period  of  most  rapid  expansion  of 
grain  cultivation  also  saw  an  upswing  in  the  number  of  farm 
animals.  One  result  was  overgrazing  of  grasslands,  wasteland, 
forests,  and  mountain  meadows,  which  damaged  the  soil, 
although  not  enough  to  reduce  the  size  of  herds.  Another 
result  was  smaller,  less  productive  animals.  Cattle,  which  pro- 
cess coarse  forage  less  efficiently  than  sheep  and  goats,  suf- 
fered most  from  the  loss  of  grazing  land,  but  nearly  all  animals 
produced  less  meat  and  milk  and  fewer  offspring. 

Farmers  made  a  modest  beginning  toward  improving  live- 
stock production  techniques  in  the  1980s,  but  traditional  prac- 
tices were  hard  to  change.  Even  if  they  have  no  land,  most 
village  families  own  a  few  animals.  Animals  essentially  scrounge 
for  an  existence,  foraging  on  crop  stubble,  weeds,  and  grass  on 
fallow  land,  and  on  uncultivable  grazing  areas.  Few  farmers 
integrate  livestock  production  with  cropping  activities  or  match 
feed  supply  to  their  animals'  requirements.  Rural  families  raise 
livestock  on  land  that  lacks  alternative  uses,  but  the  system  does 


191 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

not  allow  the  high  levels  of  production  necessary  to  meet  the 
needs  of  the  rapidly  expanding  population.  Moreover,  over- 
grazing has  caused  environmental  damage  that  is  difficult  to 
repair. 

Data  on  the  livestock  industry  are  poor  but  indicative  of 
general  trends.  Official  statistics  reveal  that  recent  years  have 
seen  changes  in  the  relative  roles  of  various  animals  in  the  farm 
economy.  Given  Turkish  dietary  preferences,  sheep  have  rela- 
tively high  value  and  increased  in  number  from  about  36.8  mil- 
lion head  in  1970  to  about  40.4  million  head  in  1992.  The 
number  of  goats  declined  during  the  same  period,  from  about 
18.9  million  to  about  10.7  million  because  of  grazing  restric- 
tions in  forests  and  government  policies  encouraging  herd 
reduction.  The  use  of  tractors  probably  has  caused  the  decline 
in  the  number  of  oxen.  Cattle,  which  have  risen  in  value  as 
farmers  strive  to  meet  the  growing  urban  demand  for  milk, 
increased  in  number  from  about  2.1  million  in  1970  to  about 
11.9  million  in  1992. 

Livestock  output  has  increased  over  the  years,  although  less 
rapidly  than  demand.  In  the  early  1980s,  the  country  was  essen- 
tially self-sufficient  in  milk  products,  producing  about  5.2  mil- 
lion tons  per  year.  By  the  early  1990s,  milk  output  had  doubled, 
to  10  million  tons  per  year.  Annual  meat  production  averaged 
660,000  tons  per  year;  this  figure,  however,  represents  only  an 
estimate  because  most  slaughtering  occurs  outside  official 
slaughterhouses.  During  the  1980s,  the  price  for  red  meat 
increased  sharply,  leading  to  a  fall  in  domestic  meat  demand 
and  an  increase  in  poultry  consumption.  However,  meat 
demand  was  partially  sustained  by  exports  of  live  animals — 
some  of  them  smuggled  over  borders — to  Middle  Eastern 
countries,  especially  Iran  and  Iraq.  The  UN  embargo  on  Iraq 
hurt  domestic  meat  exporters  after  1990. 

Poultry  production  expanded  rapidly  after  1980  and 
appears  capable  of  rising  with  demand  as  incomes  increase  and 
diets  begin  to  include  animal  products.  Poultry  exports  to  Iran 
and  Iraq  also  grew  in  the  1980s  but  fell  somewhat  in  the  1990s. 
Many  Turkish  poultry  operations  are  small,  producing  between 
5,000  and  10,000  fowl  at  a  time.  However,  larger,  integrated 
operations  have  also  been  established,  particularly  in  urban 
areas.  One,  Yupi  of  Izmir,  claims  to  be  one  of  the  largest  poul- 
try producers  in  the  world.  By  1992  Turkey  had  134  million 
head  of  poultry,  double  the  number  that  it  had  had  in  1987. 


192 


The  Economy 


Forestry  and  Fisheries 

Forestry  contributes  little  to  the  economy,  but  it  holds 
potential  for  future  development.  In  the  early  1990s,  Turkey's 
forests  covered  an  estimated  20.2  million  hectares,  or  201,990 
square  kilometers  (26  percent  of  the  land  area).  Official  statis- 
tics indicate  that  forests  have  doubled  in  size  since  1950;  the 
figures  do  not  reflect  actual  growth  in  forested  areas  but  rather 
continuing  survey  efforts  and  the  inclusion  of  less  productive 
wooded  areas  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  forestry  administra- 
tion. The  most  productive  lumber  area  is  the  Black  Sea  region, 
followed  by  central,  western,  and  southern  Anatolia,  where 
mostly  pine  wood  is  produced.  The  forests  in  the  eastern  part 
of  the  country  are  in  poor  condition  and  yield  little  besides 
firewood.  Many  forests  are  overmature  because  of  poor  man- 
agement and  infrequent  cutting,  and  thus  only  about  20  per- 
cent of  the  total  forested  area  is  commercially  exploitable. 

By  the  mid-1950s,  the  state  had  taken  over  all  forest  areas 
from  private  owners.  Compensation  was  largely  in  the  form  of 
access  to  fuel  wood  at  low  prices.  The  one-third  of  the  rural 
population  that  lives  in  or  near  forests  includes  many  of  the 
country's  poorest  families.  The  bulk  of  their  income  comes 
from  farming;  forest  products  provide  supplemental  income 
and  fuel.  The  main  objective  of  forest  management  is  control 
of  traditional  logging  and  grazing  rights;  the  lack  of  alternative 
fuel  supplies  makes  it  impossible  to  stop  illegal  wood  harvests 
in  state  forests. 

The  General  Directorate  of  Forestry  in  the  Ministry  of  For- 
estry has  assumed  responsibility  for  logging  and  reforestation 
operations  and  for  reducing  erosion.  Whereas  wood  produc- 
tion has  been  substantially  below  potential,  partly  because  of  a 
lack  of  equipment  and  roads,  reforestation  efforts  increased 
Turkey's  wooded  area  by  about  2  percent  between  1977  and 
1981.  During  the  early  1980s,  annual  wood  production  aver- 
aged 5.2  million  cubic  meters  of  lumber.  By  1991  production 
had  risen  to  about  6.5  million  cubic  meters. 

Despite  the  country's  long  coastline  and  large  freshwater 
bodies,  fishing  is  an  underdeveloped  industry.  The  Black  Sea 
and  the  Sea  of  Marmara  constitute  the  main  fishing  grounds. 
The  tonnage  of  the  fishing  fleet  has  increased,  but  in  the  early 
1990s  it  still  included  about  7,000  traditional  boats,  some  1,500 
of  which  lacked  motors.  The  annual  catch  rose  from  around 
430,000  tons  in  1981  to  about  625,200  tons  in  1988,  but 


193 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


declined  to  about  365,000  tons  in  1991.  Frogs'  legs,  snails, 
shrimp,  and  crayfish  are  exported  to  Europe. 

Industry 

Turkish  modernizers  have  long  struggled  to  build  an  indus- 
trial system  that  would  help  restore  the  country's  economic 
power.  The  import-substitution  strategy  followed  until  1980  was 
designed  to  make  the  country  an  independent  producer  of 
manufactured  goods.  The  result  was  a  striking  unfolding  of 
industry,  especially  between  1950  and  1977,  when  the  sector 
(including  energy  and  natural  resources)  grew  at  an  annual 
average  rate  of  8.6  percent  in  real  terms,  expanding  its  share  of 
GDP  from  about  12  percent  to  about  25  percent.  Despite  the 
retrenchment  of  the  early  1980s,  the  recovery  of  the  industrial 
sector — which  registered  an  average  annual  growth  rate  of  5.9 
percent  between  1987  and  1992 — restored  the  sector  to  its  pre- 
1980  proportion  of  more  than  23  percent  of  GDP  in  1993.  By 
the  early  1990s,  industry  was  broadly  based;  the  only  individual 
industries  accounting  for  more  than  5  percent  of  industrial 
output  were  food  processing,  petroleum,  textiles,  and  iron  and 
steel. 

Under  the  republic,  the  Turks  have  vastly  improved  their 
country's  infrastructure  and  have  achieved  the  ability  to  pro- 
duce a  wide  range  of  products.  The  country's  first  factories  pro- 
cessed food,  such  as  sugar  and  flour,  and  nondurable 
consumer  goods,  such  as  textiles  and  footwear.  Next  came 
intermediate  industrial  products,  including  iron  and  steel, 
chemicals,  cement,  and  fertilizer.  By  the  end  of  the  1970s,  the 
country  was  developing  capital  goods  industries  and  high-tech- 
nology products.  Production  of  trucks  and  buses  in  coopera- 
tion with  the  West  German  firm  Mercedes-Benz,  and  of  F-16 
fighter  aircraft  with  the  United  States  firm  General  Dynamics, 
indicated  Turkey's  industrial  ambitions. 

The  press  for  rapid  industrialization  minimized  the  atten- 
tion given  to  efficiency,  and  excessive  protection  forestalled 
competition  that  would  have  promoted  efficiency;  selling  in 
the  protected  home  market  was  much  more  attractive  than 
attempting  to  export.  Moreover,  the  rise  of  montage  industries, 
which  assembled  such  products  as  motor  vehicles,  consumer 
durables,  and  elecUonic  goods  primarily  using  imported  com- 
ponents, meant  that  industrial  growth  required  ever  more 
imports.  Hence,  attempts  at  import  substitution  paradoxically 
tended  to  aggravate  the  country's  trade  balance.  The 


194 


Fish  vendor  on  the  Bosporus 
Courtesy  Hermine  Dreyfus s 


Fisherman  mending  his 
net,  Trabzon 
Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


capital-intensive  nature  of  many  industrial  investments,  espe- 
cially those  in  the  intermediate  goods  sector,  caused  employ- 
ment in  industry  to  grow  relatively  slowly,  contributing  to 
structural  unemployment.  Dependence  on  imported  petro- 
leum made  the  country  highly  vulnerable  to  increases  in  oil 
prices. 

By  the  end  of  the  1970s,  industry  had  reached  a  turning 
point.  In  the  short  run,  the  sector  needed  to  overcome  short- 
ages of  energy,  imported  machinery,  parts,  and  processing 
materials  that  had  caused  a  decline  in  industrial  output  during 
the  last  years  of  the  decade.  In  the  longer  run,  to  become  more 
efficient  and  to  enable  increased  exports,  the  industrial  struc- 
ture had  to  be  adjusted  in  accordance  with  the  country's  com- 
parative advantages.  In  effect,  industry  would  have  to  transfer 
resources  out  of  uncompetitive  industries  to  favor  those  that 
could  compete  in  world  markets.  The  difficult  adjustment  pro- 
cess started  during  the  early  1980s,  and  substantial  progress  was 
made  under  the  Ozal  team.  Under  the  new  outward-oriented 
development  strategy,  as  under  the  old  import-substitution  pol- 
icies, industry  was  to  be  the  leading  sector  of  the  economy. 
Industrial  performance — especially  in  export  markets — would 
determine  if  that  strategy  would  be  successful. 

Many  of  the  problems  of  import  substitution  had  not  yet 
been  overcome  by  the  mid-1990s.  Much  progress  had  been 
made  in  spurring  private-sector-led  industrialization,  particu- 
larly in  light  manufacturing  and  export  promotion,  however. 
Light  manufactures  and  iron  and  steel  accounted  for  an 
increasing  proportion — and  since  the  1980s,  the  majority — of 
exports.  Moreover,  foreign  investment  in  the  industrial  sector, 
made  either  directly  or  through  the  stock  market,  had  begun 
to  have  a  positive  impact  on  Turkish  industry.  However,  much 
of  industry  was  still  dominated  by  the  public  sector  in  early 
1995,  and  private-sector  companies  still  depended  on  crucial 
inputs  from  public-sector  industries. 

Industrial  Policy 

In  line  with  the  shift  to  an  outward-oriented  development 
strategy,  in  1980  Turkey's  policy  makers  began  to  revamp  the 
country's  industrial  policy.  The  new  policy  set  forth  four 
related  goals  for  industry:  upgrading  the  role  of  market  signals 
in  decision  making,  increasing  manufacturing  exports,  enlarg- 
ing the  private  share  in  manufacturing,  and  reforming  the 
SEEs  to  reduce  inefficiency.  In  the  early  1990s,  a  fifth  goal  was 


196 


The  Economy 


added:  privatization  of  public-sector  entities.  Policy  makers 
were  also  concerned  with  obtaining  adequate  energy  supplies 
and  providing  enough  work  for  the  growing  labor  force. 

Energy 

Turkey  is  relatively  well  endowed  with  energy  and  mineral 
resources.  The  extensive  mountainous  terrain  provides  numer- 
ous hydroelectric  sites,  although  most  are  far  from  the  main 
population  and  consumption  centers.  The  country  also  has 
substantial  exploitable  lignite  resources  and  small  reserves  of 
hard  coal,  petroleum,  and  natural  gas.  Commercially  exploit- 
able deposits  of  many  minerals  have  been  located,  but  the  terri- 
tory has  been  surveyed  only  partially.  Exploitation  of  these 
natural  resources  has  occurred  relatively  slowly. 

The  combined  demands  of  industrialization  and  urbaniza- 
tion nearly  tripled  energy  consumption  in  the  1960s  and  1970s. 
An  inappropriate  pricing  policy,  especially  the  subsidy  of  petro- 
leum that  led  to  unduly  cheap  products,  was  one  cause  of  shifts 
in  the  sources  of  energy  that  exacerbated  shortages.  In  1960 
more  than  half  of  the  primary  energy  consumed  came  from 
noncommercial  sources,  mainly  firewood  but  also  manure  and 
other  agricultural  wastes.  These  noncommercial  sources,  plus 
domestic  coal  and  lignite,  accounted  for  more  than  80  percent 
of  all  primary  energy  consumed;  oil  supplied  only  18  percent. 
By  1980,  in  contrast,  oil  supplied  about  47  percent  of  the  pri- 
mary energy  consumed,  coal  and  lignite  about  21  percent, 
hydroelectric  power  8  percent,  and  noncommercial  sources 
such  as  firewood  and  animal  wastes  only  23  percent.  By  1992, 
43.5  percent  of  final  energy  came  from  petroleum,  31.1  per- 
cent from  lignite  and  hard  coal,  4.1  percent  from  hydroelectric 
power,  6.9  percent  from  natural  gas,  and  14.4  percent  from 
other  energy  sources,  including  solid  fuels,  geothermal,  solar 
power,  and  wind  power. 

During  the  1970s,  the  demand  for  electricity  began  to 
exceed  supply,  and  by  the  late  1970s  the  power  gap  began  to 
constrain  industry.  After  1977  rotating  blackouts  affecting 
industrial,  commercial,  and  residential  consumers  were  neces- 
sary to  meet  demand.  By  1979  the  shortage  of  foreign 
exchange  had  so  restricted  imports  of  crude  oil  that  fuel  for 
cars,  trucks,  and  tractors  had  to  be  rationed.  In  the  mid-1980s, 
in  an  attempt  to  deal  with  the  energy  shortage  the  Ozal  admin- 
istration launched  the  build,  operate,  and  transfer  (BOT)  sys- 
tem, under  which  foreign  investors  would  provide  the  capital 


197 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


and  technology  to  build  plants,  operate  them  for  a  number  of 
years  with  guaranteed  revenues,  and  finally  transfer  the  units  to 
the  government  when  the  investment  had  been  fully  returned. 
The  Ataturk  Dam  was  a  major  project  designed  to  increase 
electricity  output.  Its  first  two  power  units  came  on  line  in 
1992. 

Although  Turkey's  energy  resources  remained  underdevel- 
oped in  early  1995,  the  country  had  relatively  good  energy  pro- 
duction potential.  One  estimate  places  the  economically 
feasible  hydroelectric  potential  at  around  29,500  megawatts, 
which  would  allow  annual  production  to  reach  roughly  100,000 
gigawatt-hours  in  years  with  normal  rainfall.  Lignite  is  the  sec- 
ond most  important  potential  source  of  energy,  with  proven 
and  probable  deposits  put  around  6.4  billion  tons.  However, 
Turkish  lignite,  containing  high  amounts  of  water  and  sulfur,  is 
hard  to  burn  and  pollutes  the  air.  Turkey's  proven  and  esti- 
mated petroleum  stocks  are  equivalent  to  about  three  years' 
consumption.  Proven  reserves  are  estimated  at  about  16  mil- 
lion tons,  and  enhanced  oil-recovery  techniques  may  allow 
extraction  of  another  30  million  tons.  Proven  reserves  of  natu- 
ral gas  total  about  12.4  billion  cubic  meters,  and  reserves  of 
hard  coal  about  1  billion  tons.  Turkey's  geothermal  resources 
are  considerable,  but  they  have  not  yet  been  systematically 
explored. 

Imports  of  petroleum  averaged  more  than  15  million  tons 
per  year  in  the  early  1980s  and  increased  to  about  23  million 
tons  in  the  early  1990s.  Most  of  Turkey's  oil  fields  are  located  in 
southeastern  Anatolia  near  the  borders  with  Iran,  Iraq,  and 
Syria  (see  fig.  10).  Because  of  the  country's  fractured  substrata, 
deposits  are  often  contained  in  small  pockets,  which  makes 
exploration  and  extraction  difficult.  In  1985  exploration 
proved  that  Turkey  has  oil  deposits  at  very  deep  levels,  but  it 
was  not  known  how  large  the  deposits  might  be.  Shell  Oil 
determined  that  oil  at  Paleozoic  levels  would  be  recoverable, 
and  other  investigations  proved  significant  deposits  in  central 
Anatolia  under  the  salt  flats  in  the  plain  north  of  Konya.  In 
1991  British  Petroleum  began  exploring  for  oil  in  offshore 
areas  of  the  Black  Sea.  It  is  also  suspected  that  the  Aegean  shelf 
contains  considerable  petroleum  deposits,  but  as  long  as  rela- 
tions with  Greece  remain  strained,  conflicting  claims  to  the 
Aegean  seabed  limit  prospects  for  exploration.  To  speed  up  the 
exploration  process,  the  Turkish  government  in  1983  eased 
regulations  on  such  activities  by  foreign  oil  companies,  allow- 


198 


The  Economy 


ing  them  to  export  35  percent  of  production  from  fields  they 
discovered  in  Anatolia  and  45  percent  from  offshore  fields. 
Although  several  foreign  concerns  started  exploration  after  the 
liberalization  package  went  into  effect,  up  to  the  mid-1990s  no 
major  finds  had  been  reported. 

The  state-owned  oil  company,  Turkish  Petroleum  Corpora- 
tion (TPAO),  Shell  Oil,  and  Mobil  control  most  petroleum  out- 
put, which  had  climbed  gradually  to  a  peak  of  3.6  million  tons 
in  1969  but  declined  to  about  2.1  million  tons  in  1985  as  depos- 
its were  depleted  (see  table  8,  Appendix  A.).  By  the  early  1990s, 
output  had  increased  once  again  to  nearly  4.4  million  tons. 
The  main  petroleum  project  during  the  1980s  was  an  attempt 
at  secondary  recovery  at  the  Bati  Raman  fields  in  southeastern 
Anatolia,  which  were  expected  to  produce  roughly  1.5  million 
tons  a  year  over  a  twenty-year  period. 

TPAO  stepped  up  oil  exploration  efforts  at  home  and 
abroad  in  the  hope  of  raising  output.  But  prospects  for  new 
domestic  finds  were  endangered  by  the  escalating  conflict  with 
Kurdish  rebels  in  southeastern  Turkey.  Western  operators  in 
the  area  were  nervous  after  a  sharp  increase  in  the  number  of 
attacks  on  oil  installations.  Mobil  suspended  operations  at  its 
3,200-bpd  Selmo  field  and  other  small  sites  after  Kurdish 
attacks  on  its  staff.  In  the  early  1990s,  talks  were  underway  on  a 
possible  transfer  of  the  Selmo  operation  to  TPAO.  Shell  Oil's 
rig  near  the  25,000-bpd  Batman  refinery  was  also  hit,  although 
operations  there  continued.  TPAO  reported  no  attacks.  Total 
Turkish  production  in  1993  of  about  78,600  bpd — down  from 
about  84,500  bpd  in  1991 — met  17  percent  of  the  country's 
458,000-bpd  needs.  The  state  firm  in  1993  pumped  about 
60,550  bpd,  Shell  Oil  about  14,500  bpd,  Mobil  about  3,230 
bpd,  and  Aladdin  Middle  East  about  330  bpd.  On  several  aging 
fields,  rising  water  content  has  halved  productivity.  TPAO 
drilled  sixty  exploration  wells  in  1993,  only  one  of  which  hit  oil. 
In  1994  it  planned  to  drill  eighty-one,  stepping  up  work  outside 
the  affected  southeast.  Meanwhile,  Mobil  was  doing  seismic 
work  in  central  and  southern  Turkey,  and  Shell  Oil  and  United 
States  Arco  were  both  exploring  in  the  southeast. 

TPAO's  joint  venture  in  Kazakhstan,  which  holds  seven  con- 
cessions, should  help  to  increase  the  company's  oil  reserves.  In 
addition,  preliminary  tests  in  1993  near  Aktyubinsk  and  Atyrau 
were  promising.  It  is  expected  to  be  several  years,  however, 
before  the  oil  or  gas  reaches  Turkey,  given  the  need  to  work 
out  export  routes  or  an  exchange  agreement  with  Russia.  Turk- 


199 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


200 


The  Economy 


ish  sources  are  cofinancing  the  venture  with  the  Kazakh  state 
oil  company.  The  project  is  TPAO's  first  major  overseas  enter- 
prise, although  its  subsidiary,  the  Turkish  Petroleum  Interna- 
tional Corporation,  holds  concessions  in  Australia,  Pakistan, 
and  Egypt. 

Five  refineries  with  a  total  capacity  of  about  713,000  bpd 
meet  most  of  the  country's  need  for  petroleum  products.  Until 
early  1995,  about  85  percent  of  refinery  capacity  was  in  public 
hands  in  four  refineries  located  at  Aliaga  near  Izmir,  Kocaeli, 
Kirikkale,  and  Batman.  A  fifth  refinery,  jointly  owned  by  Mobil, 
Shell  Oil,  British  Petroleum,  and  a  Turkish  company,  is  located 
at  Mersin. 

In  early  1995,  Turkey's  privatization  program  appeared  to 
be  back  on  track  after  a  period  of  wrangling  over  the  legality  of 
the  sale  of  the  state  refinery  company  TUPRAS  and  the  retail 
company  Petrol  Ofisi.  The  sale  of  part  or  all  of  each  company  is 
scheduled  to  take  place  before  the  end  of  1995. 

Petrol  Ofisi's  4,000  stations  control  56  percent  of  a  domestic 
gasoline  market  that  since  1987  has  grown  by  an  average  of  5.5 
percent  a  year  to  94,000  bpd.  Full  privatization  is  expected  by 
the  end  of  1995. 

A  TPAO  pipeline  extends  for  nearly  500  kilometers  from 
the  oil  fields  near  Batman  to  Dortyol  on  the  Mediterranean 
coast.  The  corporation  also  owns  and  operates  the  Turkish  sec- 
tion of  the  pipeline  from  Iraq's  Kirkuk  fields  to  a  port  facility 
near  Dortyol.  This  pipeline  was  enlarged  in  1984  to  carry  1.1 
million  bpd,  a  share  of  which  Turkey  purchased  at  preferential 
rates.  A  second,  smaller-capacity  Kirkuk-Dortyol  pipeline  was 
built  in  the  late  1980s,  which  increased  capacity  to  1.5  million 
bpd.  Oil  flows  through  the  two  pipelines  ceased  after  the  UN 
embargo  on  Iraq  was  imposed  in  1990.  The  pipeline  cannot  be 
used  for  domestic  oil  because  according  to  international  law 
the  oil  in  the  pipeline  at  the  time  of  the  embargo  must  be 
stored,  awaiting  UN  disposition. 

Apart  from  the  country's  own  oil  prospects  in  the  Black  Sea, 
Turkish  officials  see  their  nation  as  a  strategic  hub  bringing  oil 
from  Azerbaijan  and  Kazakhstan  to  the  Mediterranean  and 
connecting  Turkmenistan  and  possibly  Iran  to  the  European 
gas  network.  Turkish  officials  have  pushed  their  own  brand  of 
pipeline  diplomacy,  encouraging  the  nations  of  Central  Asia 
and  the  Caucasus — as  well  as  Iran — to  cooperate  so  that  they 
can  start  exporting  their  prime  resources  to  the  outside  world 
via  Turkey. 


201 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

The  Turks  are  convinced  that  at  least  some  of  the  projects 
eventually  will  come  to  fruition,  beginning  with  a  projected 
pipeline  to  bring  Azerbaijani  crude  to  the  eastern  Mediterra- 
nean. In  the  early  1990s,  the  governments  of  Turkey  and  Azer- 
baijan officially  approved  plans  for  such  a  line.  But  a  series  of 
obstacles  remained  to  be  overcome,  including  rival  pipeline 
projects  that  would  bypass  Turkey,  border  disputes  that  would 
render  key  intervening  areas  dangerous,  and  even  a  degree  of 
antagonism  toward  Turkey  on  the  part  of  some  neighboring 
states.  The  most  immediate  challenge  was  the  effort  to  bring 
oil  from  Kazakhstan's  Tengiz  field  to  the  Russian  Black  Sea  port 
of  Novorossiysk,  which  would  mean  an  upsurge  in  tanker  traffic 
not  only  in  the  Black  Sea,  but  also  in  the  Bosporus  and  Dar- 
danelles. Turkey  has  opposed  this  project  vehemently  but  is 
constrained  by  international  conventions  that  guarantee  pas- 
sage between  the  Black  and  the  Mediterranean  seas.  In  some 
places,  the  straits  are  only  800  meters  wide,  and  the  Bosporus 
bisects  Turkey's  largest  city,  Istanbul.  The  threat  to  one  of  the 
nation's  greatest  attractions  has  turned  Turkish  officials  into 
ardent  environmentalists. 

Natural  gas  became  important  in  the  1980s.  Gas  tapped  in 
Thrace  (Trakya,  European  Turkey)  was  piped  to  the  Istanbul 
region  and  used  to  produce  electricity,  thereby  reducing  the 
need  for  energy  imports  from  Bulgaria.  In  1986  Turkey  began 
construction  of  a  pipeline  to  carry  Soviet  natural  gas  from  the 
Bulgarian  border  to  Ankara;  the  line  was  completed  in  the  late 
1980s.  In  1990  government  officials  announced  that  they  also 
desired  to  purchase  natural  gas  from  Algeria,  a  move  that 
would  help  balance  Turkey's  large  purchases  from  the  Soviet 
Union. 

Policy  makers  in  the  early  1970s  had  targeted  lignite  as  the 
most  abundant  domestic  source  of  hydrocarbons,  and  produc- 
tion grew  rapidly  from  an  average  of  about  7.9  million  tons  for 
the  1970-75  period  to  more  than  31  million  tons  in  1985. 
Mines  operated  by  the  state-owned  Turkish  Lignite  Company 
are  responsible  for  about  two-thirds  of  output;  private  firms 
produce  the  remainder.  Production  of  hard  coal  is  entirely 
controlled  by  the  government-owned  Turkish  Coal  Company, 
which  suffers  from  poor  management  and  outmoded  technol- 
ogy. Coal  production  is  also  hampered  by  the  great  depth  of 
the  country's  deposits.  Hard  coal  output  fell  from  around  6.5 
million  tons  in  1976  to  about  3.8  million  tons  in  1983,  and  unit 
costs  exceeded  those  of  coal  imports.  As  a  result  of  these 


202 


The  Economy 


trends,  Turkey  is  beginning  to  import  coal  for  use  in  power 
plants.  In  1992  Turkey  produced  about  12  million  tons  of  coal 
and  imported  a  net  of  about  4.2  million  tons. 

The  Turkish  Electricity  Authority  (Tiirkiye  Elektrik 
Kurumu — TEK)  is  responsible  for  most  electric  power  genera- 
tion and  distribution.  In  Adana  the  Cukurova  Electrical  Com- 
pany produces  some  electricity  privately.  In  Kepez,  a  city  in 
Antalya  Province,  another  private  company  produces  electric- 
ity. Upgrading  of  the  national  distribution  grid  began  in  the 
1980s,  and  by  1985  about  70  percent  of  Turkey's  villages  were 
receiving  electricity.  The  Fifth  Five-Year  Plan  (1984-89)  called 
for  the  completion  of  village  electrification  by  1989;  by  the 
mid-1990s  no  village  was  without  electricity. 

Demand  for  electricity  has  increased  rapidly,  in  large  part 
because  of  the  growth  of  industry,  which  consumed  more  than 
56  percent  of  electricity  in  1992.  By  1985  thermal  plants  pro- 
duced 53  percent  of  total  installed  capacity;  hydroelectric 
plants  produced  the  remainder.  During  the  early  1980s,  short- 
ages of  electricity  had  to  be  covered  with  imports  from  Bulgaria 
and  the  Soviet  Union.  In  1984  Turkey  and  the  Soviet  Union 
agreed  to  build  a  second  transmission  line  that  would  allow 
future  increases  in  Soviet  electricity  deliveries.  Although  in  the 
1990s  electricity  imports  meet  less  than  1  percent  of  Turkey's 
needs,  the  Turks  want  to  be  independent  of  supplies  from 
unreliable  neighbors. 

Sources  for  generating  such  electricity  varied.  By  1992  elec- 
tricity generated  by  coal  accounted  for  36  percent  of  total 
installed  capacity,  with  hydroelectric  plants  accounting  for  40 
percent.  The  rest  was  generated  using  petroleum  products. 

Turkey's  chronic  energy  shortages  make  development  of 
hydroelectric  power  imperative.  In  1994  the  General  Director- 
ate of  State  Hydraulic  Works  was  building  or  planning  to  build 
about  300  hydroelectric  plants.  The  centerpiece  of  Turkey's 
ambitious  hydroelectric  program,  the  Southeast  Anatolia 
Project,  which  includes  dams  on  the  Tigris  and  Euphrates  riv- 
ers, will  increase  Turkey's  irrigable  land  about  25  percent  and 
its  electricity-generating  capacity  about  45  percent.  As  of  early 
1987,  the  first  two  of  the  three  large  dams  in  the  program  (the 
Keban  Dam  and  the  Karakaya  Dam,  both  on  the  Euphrates, 
northeast  of  Malatya)  had  been  built,  and  the  third,  the 
Atatiirk  Dam,  was  under  construction,  completed  in  1994.  The 
World  Bank  refused  to  help  finance  the  construction  of  the 
Atatiirk  Dam  because  Turkey  had  not  reached  an  agreement 


203 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


on  sharing  the  water  of  the  Euphrates  River  with  Syria  and 
Iraq;  Turkey,  however,  arranged  independent  financing. 

Turkish  officials  had  long  discussed  the  possibility  that 
nuclear  power  might  help  the  country  address  its  energy  prob- 
lems. During  the  1980s,  the  military  government  drew  up  a 
nuclear  energy  program  and  established  the  Nuclear  Power 
Plants  Division  of  the  Turkish  Electricity  Authority  to  make  fea- 
sibility studies  and  to  build  nuclear  plants.  Given  Turkey's 
desire  to  diversify  its  energy  sources,  nuclear  power  was 
expected  to  remain  on  the  agenda.  By  early  1995,  however,  no 
electricity  had  been  generated  from  nuclear  power. 

Although  Turkey  has  made  a  good  start  at  addressing  its 
energy  problems,  some  analysts  feel  that  more  attention  needs 
to  be  paid  to  conservation  and  pricing  policies  to  limit  the 
growth  of  demand.  Industry  is  the  major  consumer  of  energy, 
and  industrial  consumption  is  expected  to  grow  rapidly  if  left 
unchecked.  The  most  energy-intensive  sectors  of  industry,  such 
as  iron  and  steel,  food  processing,  textiles,  mining  and  nonfer- 
rous  metals,  chemicals,  cement,  and  bricks  and  ceramics,  prob- 
ably could  reduce  demand  significantly  if  required  to  do  so. 
However,  the  government  needs  to  audit  major  energy  users  to 
discover  which  could  cut  back  consumption.  In  addition,  a  shift 
in  relative  energy  prices  to  reflect  long-run  costs  might  induce 
industrial  restructuring  that  would  take  Turkey's  energy 
endowment  into  account.  Moreover,  energy  policy  makers 
need  to  improve  management  of  firewood  and  agricultural 
wastes,  which  continue  to  play  an  important  role  in  the  rural 
energy  economy. 

Mineral  Resources 

Turkey's  most  important  minerals  are  chromite,  bauxite, 
and  copper.  The  country  also  exploits  deposits  of  other  miner- 
als such  as  iron,  manganese,  lead,  zinc,  antimony,  asbestos, 
pyrites,  sulfur,  mercury,  and  manganese.  Mining  contributed 
slightly  under  2  percent  of  GDP  in  1992,  but  the  subsector  pro- 
vides the  raw  material  for  such  key  manufacturing  industries  as 
iron  and  steel,  aluminum,  cement,  and  fertilizers.  Turkey 
exports  a  variety  of  minerals,  the  most  important  of  which  are 
blister  copper,  chrome,  and  boron  products.  Minerals 
accounted  for  an  average  of  about  2  percent  of  export  earnings 
in  the  mid-1990s.  The  public  sector  dominates  mining, 
accounting  for  about  75  percent  of  sales.  Etibank,  set  up  in 
1935  to  develop  Turkey's  natural  resources,  manages  most  of 


204 


Market  in  Bodrum,  in 
central  Anatolia 
Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


Vendor  of  simit,  the 
traditional  bread,  in 
Istanbul 

Courtesy  Hermine  Dreyfus s 


the  state's  mineral  interests,  particularly  bauxite,  boron  miner- 
als, chromite,  and  copper. 

Private-sector  mining  enterprises  are  generally  small,  con- 
centrating on  lead,  zinc,  and  marble;  some  operate  intermit- 
tently depending  on  market  conditions.  A  1978  law 
nationalized  all  private  holdings,  but  it  was  only  partially  imple- 
mented before  being  invalidated  by  the  Constitutional  Court. 
In  1980  the  government  began  to  encourage  foreign  invest- 
ment, and  in  1983  and  1985  mining  laws  were  revised  to  pro- 
vide incentives  for  private  investment.  Etibank  sought  to 
encourage  joint  ventures  with  private  firms  in  Turkey  and  for- 
eign investors.  Although  some  partnerships  were  struck,  mainly 
for  copper  production,  foreign  and  private  investors  in  1995 
continued  to  hesitate  to  make  major  investments. 

Manufacturing 

Turkey's  manufacturing  industries  are  diverse  and  growing. 
Public-sector  entities  dominate  manufacturing,  accounting  for 


205 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

about  40  percent  of  value  added.  Private-sector  firms  are  domi- 
nated by  a  number  of  large  conglomerates  that  have  diversified 
across  several  industries. 

The  manufacture  of  textiles  is  Turkey's  largest  industry,  very 
competitive  in  international  markets,  and  the  most  important 
foreign-exchange  earner.  Domestic  cotton  and  wool  provide 
much  of  the  raw  material  for  the  industry,  but  synthetics  pro- 
duction has  also  expanded.  The  textile  sector  contributed  20 
percent  of  total  manufacturing  output  and  employed  33  per- 
cent of  all  workers  in  the  mid-1990s.  Textiles  are  produced  by 
factories  controlled  by  the  country's  largest  SEE,  Sumerbank, 
and  a  number  of  private  firms.  Installed  capacity  is  equivalent 
to  around  33  percent  of  that  of  the  EU  in  terms  of  cotton  spin- 
ning and  around  11  percent  of  EU  woolen  yarn  and  textiles.  In 
1994  Sumerbank  was  identified  as  a  likely  candidate  for  privati- 
zation. 

Textile  exports  grew  rapidly  after  1980,  but  protectionism  in 
industrial  countries,  including  the  EC  nations  and  the  United 
States,  threatened  the  sector's  growth.  Nonetheless,  between 
1987  and  1992  textile  export  values  expanded  at  an  average 
annual  rate  of  19  percent.  By  1992  textiles  accounted  for  35 
percent  of  total  exports.  Investment  in  increased  capacity  in 
the  1980s  resulted  in  increased  exports  of  finished  products 
and  ready-made  garments.  In  1990  the  administration  of  Presi- 
dent George  Bush  increased  the  quota  for  United  States  textile 
imports  from  Turkey  by  50  percent  to  compensate  for  Turkey's 
economic  problems  caused  by  sanctions  on  Iraq. 

Agroprocessing  is  one  of  the  most  dynamic  branches  of 
Turkish  industry,  supplying  both  domestic  and  export  markets. 
Main  product  lines  are  sugar,  flour,  processed  meat  and  milk, 
and  fruits  and  vegetables.  Processed  food  exports  grew  at  an 
average  rate  of  8  percent  per  year  between  1987  and  1992, 
accounting  for  9  percent  of  total  exports. 

SEEs  are  the  most  important  producers  of  intermediate 
goods,  although  private  firms  are  also  active.  The  iron  and  steel 
sector  has  become  more  competitive  in  adjacent  Middle  East- 
ern markets,  where  Turkey's  location  is  an  advantage.  However, 
competitiveness  results  largely  from  heavy  subsidies  to  the  state 
companies.  Two-thirds  of  Turkey's  steel  is  produced  by  three 
public-sector  steel  mills,  which  remain  heavily  subsidized. 
Twenty  smaller  private  plants  produce  steel  from  arc  furnace 
operations.  Public  plants  include  the  old  and  outmoded  mill  at 
Karabuk,  the  Eregli  works  completed  in  1965,  and  the  plant  at 


206 


Women  crocheting  lace 
edgings  on  head  scarves, 
Goreme 

Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


Woman  beating  and 
washing  wool  near  Lake  Van 
Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


Iskenderun,  which  was  built  with  Soviet  aid  and  opened  in 
1975.  The  overstaffed  Iskenderun  plant,  although  the  largest 
and  most  modern,  performs  poorly.  Private  plants,  often  more 
profitable  than  state  plants,  tend  to  use  scrap  as  a  raw  material 
and  to  export  to  neighboring  countries.  In  December  1994, 
the  government  indicated  that  51.7  percent  of  the  Eregli  Iron 
and  Steel  Works  would  be  privatized  in  1995.  This  company  was 
cited  as  one  of  the  most  profitable  in  Turkey,  especially  after  a 
US$1.5  billion  upgrade  designed  to  raise  raw  steel  capacity  by 
one-third,  to  about  3  million  tons  annually. 

Capacity  use  in  the  iron  and  steel  sector  increased  rapidly  in 
the  1980s  and  early  1990s.  Total  output  of  crude  iron  grew 
from  about  3.1  million  tons  in  1985  to  about  4.5  million  tons  in 
1992.  Steel  ingot  output  rose  from  about  7  million  tons  in  1987 
to  10.3  million  tons  in  1992.  The  value  of  exports  of  iron  and 
steel  rose  from  US$34  million  in  1980  to  US$1.6  billion  in 
1992.  Such  exports  accounted  for  around  10  percent  of  total 
exports. 


207 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

The  demand  for  cement  also  increased  in  the  late  1980s  and 
early  1990s  as  a  result  of  an  upswing  in  domestic  construction 
stimulated  by  infrastructure  and  housing  projects.  The  cement 
industry  consists  of  a  large  SEE,  the  Turkish  Cement  Corpora- 
tion, and  a  number  of  smaller  companies.  Until  1970  the  coun- 
try imported  most  of  its  cement,  but  it  has  since  become 
self-sufficient.  Total  output  increased  from  22.7  million  tons  in 
1987  to  28.5  million  tons  in  1992.  Exports  of  cement,  especially 
to  the  Middle  East,  grew  rapidly  in  the  early  1980s  because  of 
the  construction  boom  in  that  region. 

The  chemical  industry,  one  of  the  country's  largest  in  terms 
of  value,  is  concentrated  in  a  few  large  state  enterprises,  includ- 
ing the  Petrochemical  Corporation  (Petrokimya  Anonimsir- 
keti — Petkim)  and  Etibank,  and  some  600  private  enterprises. 
Chemicals  produced  in  Turkey  include  boron  products,  caustic 
soda,  chlorine,  industrial  chemicals,  and  sodium  phosphates. 
The  high  quality  of  the  country's  minerals  gives  it  a  compara- 
tive advantage  in  several  products.  Chemical  exports  increased 
during  the  second  half  of  the  1980s  but  fell  sharply  in  the  early 
1990s,  mainly  because  of  increasing  competition  and  lower 
prices  elsewhere.  In  the  late  1980s,  petrochemical  production, 
dominated  by  Petkim,  started  with  a  complex  at  Yarmica,  near 
Kocaeli,  followed  by  a  second  at  Aliaga,  near  Izmir.  The  com- 
plex includes  twelve  plants,  seven  subplants,  a  thermal  power 
station,  and  a  water  supply  dam.  These  plants  supply  small 
private-sector  plants,  which  in  turn  manufacture  finished  prod- 
ucts. The  sector's  goal  is  to  make  the  country  self-sufficient  in 
petrochemicals  rather  than  to  export.  In  1992  Turkey  pro- 
duced about  144,000  tons  of  polyvinyl  chloride,  about  238,000 
tons  of  polyethylene,  about  85,000  tons  of  benzine,  and  about 
32,000  tons  of  carbon  black. 

Turkey's  automobile  industry,  established  in  the  mid-1960s, 
was  gradually  exposed  to  imports  after  1980.  Although  the  sec- 
tor recovered  from  low  production  levels  after  1983,  domestic 
producers  remain  weak.  Industry  observers  believe  that  Tur- 
key's automobile  makers  are  too  numerous  and  too  inefficient, 
but  market  prospects  appear  fairly  favorable  because  of  the  low 
per  capita  ownership  of  cars.  Car  output  rose  from  about 
55,000  units  in  1985  to  about  300,000  units  in  1993.  Including 
trucks,  buses,  and  tractors,  Turkey  produced  about  345,000 
units  in  1992.  Some  60,000  vehicles  were  imported  in  that  year, 
a  figure  that  should  increase  in  the  near  future  if  Turkey  gains 


208 


The  Economy 


entrance  into  the  European  customs  union.  Turkish  producers 
benefit  from  a  20  percent  tariff  on  foreign  imports. 

The  Turkish  automobile  industry  in  1995  consisted  of  three 
producers,  each  affiliated  with  a  foreign  manufacturer:  Tofas, 
which  assembles  Fiat  passenger  cars;  Oyak-Renault,  which 
assembles  Renaults;  and  General  Motors,  builder  of  Opel  Vec- 
tras.  Toyota  in  partnership  with  local  conglomerate  Sabanci 
Holding  completed  a  plant  in  1994  designed  to  produce 
100,000  cars  per  year,  and  a  Hyundai  factory  that  would  pro- 
duce 100,000  units  is  scheduled  to  open  in  1996. 

Construction 

Turkey  has  several  relatively  large,  internationally  com- 
petitive construction  firms,  some  of  which  specialize  in  particu- 
lar types  of  projects  such  as  dam  or  pipeline  construction. 
During  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s,  domestic  demand  was 
relatively  weak,  but  Turkish  firms  were  quite  successful  at  sell- 
ing their  services  abroad,  especially  in  the  oil-producing  states 
of  the  Middle  East.  However,  by  the  mid-1980s  construction 
projects  in  the  Middle  East  had  slowed  down  because  of  falling 
oil  prices.  Fortunately,  Turkey's  major  infrastructure  program 
and  housing  projects  saved  contracting  firms  from  financial 
ruin.  For  example,  the  establishment  of  the  Mass  Housing 
Fund  in  the  1980s  offered  opportunities  to  Turkish  contrac- 
tors. A  number  of  large  infrastructure  projects — particularly 
the  GAP  and  the  construction  of  state  highways — provided 
enormous  contracts  for  local  builders.  With  the  demise  of  the 
Soviet  Union,  Turkish  contractors  set  their  sights  on  Central 
Asia  and  Russia,  with  estimates  of  potential  business  in  this 
region  around  US$700  million.  The  end  of  the  Iran-Iraq  War 
in  1988  also  promised  new  opportunities  for  Turkish  contrac- 
tors; however,  the  Iraqi  invasion  of  Kuwait  and  subsequent  Per- 
sian Gulf  War  damaged  such  hopes.  Contractors  estimated 
their  combined  losses  as  a  result  of  the  crisis  at  US$800  million. 
Nonetheless,  the  external  market  accounted  for  a  substantial 
portion  of  the  industry's  revenues.  At  the  end  of  1992,  Turkish 
contractors  had  contracts  worth  US$20.6  billion;  Libya 
accounted  for  US$10.3  billion,  Saudi  Arabia  US$5.4  billion, 
and  the  republics  of  the  former  Soviet  Union  US$1  billion. 

Policy  makers  have  made  housing — perhaps  the  most  defi- 
cient sector  of  the  economy — a  priority.  The  combination  of 
rapid  population  growth  and  high  rates  of  urbanization  has 
overwhelmed  available  housing.  In  the  mid-1980s,  perhaps 


209 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

more  than  half  of  the  inhabitants  of  urban  centers  lived  in 
shanties  lacking  sewers,  water,  and  electricity.  According  to  a 
tradition  dating  back  to  Ottoman  rule,  shelters  built  overnight 
had  been  tolerated  by  the  authorities.  These  shanties,  or 
gecekondus  (see  Glossary),  had  been  a  problem  since  the  1950s. 
In  the  early  1980s,  the  government  took  several  steps  to 
improve  the  housing  situation.  A  law  was  passed  transferring 
ownership  of  existing  gecekondus  to  their  inhabitants  but  declar- 
ing that  any  new  structures  would  be  destroyed.  In  addition,  a 
housing  fund,  set  up  in  1984  and  financed  by  a  tax  on  tobacco, 
liquor,  and  luxury  imports,  offered  financing  for  the  construc- 
tion of  up  to  100,000  houses  a  year.  Monies  could  be  used  to 
improve  existing  gecekondus  or  for  new  construction  and  could 
be  lent  to  homeowners,  cooperative  associations,  or  contrac- 
tors. Analysts  believed  it  unlikely  that  the  fund  would  grow  fast 
enough  to  eliminate  the  gecekondus,  although  it  might  stem 
their  proliferation. 

Services 

After  seventy  years  of  development,  the  services  sector  has 
grown  to  account  for  more  than  half  of  the  labor  force  but  nev- 
ertheless remains  relatively  unproductive.  In  addition  to  tradi- 
tional enterprises,  services  include  modern  activities  such  as 
banking  and  engineering.  The  development  of  government 
services  has  been  significant,  but  the  state  has  paid  little  atten- 
tion to  increasing  the  efficiency  of  private-sector  service  enter- 
prises. Services  have  traditionally  produced  only  a  small 
fraction  of  exports;  however,  after  1980  the  government 
encouraged  development  of  service  earnings  and  allowed  for- 
eign enterprises  to  enter  previously  protected  markets  such  as 
those  in  finance. 

Banking  and  Finance 

The  government,  banks,  and  industry  form  a  complex  sys- 
tem through  which  legislation  and  government  policies  direct 
credit  flows.  Most  state-owned  banks  were  established  to 
finance  particular  industries,  whereas  private  banks  generally 
have  intimate  connections  with  large  industrial  groups.  The 
Central  Bank  of  Turkey  often  provides  credit  to  other  banks  at 
negative  real  interest  rates.  Banks,  in  turn,  funnel  credit  to 
industries  or  groups  they  serve.  The  amounts  available  to  par- 
ticular sectors  of  the  economy  thus  depend  largely  on  the 


210 


Man  making  brooms, 
Trabzon 

Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


Rug  vendor  displaying  his 
wares,  central  Anatolia 
Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


211 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

resources  available  to  the  institutions  for  that  sector,  rather 
than  on  market  assessments. 

The  Central  Bank  set  up  a  system  of  quarterly  reporting  in 
the  mid-1980s,  enabling  timely  warning  of  banks  in  difficulties. 
This  reform  was  a  start  toward  making  banking  more  transpar- 
ent, but  it  is  still  difficult  to  assess  the  condition  of  the  banks. 
Strong  political  pressures  to  keep  weak  industries  and  groups 
afloat  during  the  adjustment  period  make  it  likely  that  several 
years  will  pass  before  standard  accounting  rules  can  be  system- 
atically applied.  Legislation  introduced  in  1993  sought  to  bring 
the  Turkish  banking  sector  into  line  with  European  standards 
on  capital  adequacy  and  other  prudential  ratios.  However,  in 
December  1993,  the  Constitutional  Court  blocked  this  legisla- 
tion because  the  executive  had  enacted  it  without  approval  of 
the  legislature.  No  further  action  had  occurred  as  of  early 
1995. 

Despite  some  setbacks,  the  government's  new  policies  have 
effected  rapid  changes  in  the  financial  sector.  The  banking  sys- 
tem in  early  1995  consisted  of  the  Central  Bank  and  fifty-eight 
banks,  including  twenty-one  foreign  banks,  divided  between 
Ankara,  where  most  state-owned  banks  are  located,  and  Istan- 
bul, the  center  for  most  privately  owned  banks.  Turkey  also  had 
three  state  investment  and  development  banks.  The  Develop- 
ment Bank  is  funded  from  the  Treasury  and  invests  in  the  pri- 
vate sector.  The  Export  Credit  Bank  of  Turkey  (Turkiye  Ihracat 
Kredi  Bankasi)  provides  export  finance.  The  Municipalities 
Bank  (Iller  Bankasi)  supports  local  institutions.  In  1995  nine 
merchant  banks  also  operated  in  Turkey,  six  domestically 
owned  and  three  foreign  owned. 

The  Central  Bank,  founded  in  the  early  1930s,  has  the  usual 
central  bank  responsibilities,  such  as  issuing  banknotes,  pro- 
tecting the  currency,  and  regulating  the  banking  system  and 
credit.  The  Central  Bank  also  finances  the  government's  bud- 
get deficits  and  makes  loans  to  public  and  private  banks.  Start- 
ing in  1983,  however,  the  Central  Bank  began  to  reduce 
lending  and  stepped  up  its  supervisory  functions. 

Six  of  Turkey's  commercial  banks  are  in  the  public  sector, 
and  twenty-one  are  partly  or  wholly  foreign  owned.  Of  the 
banking  sector's  assets,  46  percent  are  concentrated  in  four 
banks:  the  oldest  and  largest  public  bank,  the  Agricultural 
Bank  of  the  Republic  of  Turkey  (Turkiye  Cumhuriyet  Ziraat 
Bankasi — TCZB);  the  Real  Estate  Bank  (Turkiye  Emlak  Ban- 
kasi As);  and  two  private  banks,  Isbank  and  Akbank  TAS.  The 


212 


The  Economy 


TCZB  has  many  branches  in  rural  areas,  a  strong  deposit  base, 
and  favored  access  to  state  credits,  which  it  uses  partly  for  the 
agricultural  commodity  price-support  program.  After  1983  the 
TCZB  was  forced  to  take  over  other  banks  that  had  failed,  a 
move  that  reduced  earnings. 

Much  as  in  Germany  and  Japan,  the  major  private  banks  are 
closely  linked  to  industrial  groups.  Yapi  ve  Kredi  Bankasi,  Pam- 
ukbank,  and  Interbank  are  owned  by  the  Cukurova  Group  con- 
glomerate. Akbank,  reputed  to  be  the  most  profitable  private 
bank  in  Turkey,  is  owned  by  the  Sabanci  Group.  Partially  pub- 
licly traded  Kocbank  is  owned  by  the  Koc  Holding  Company. 
Tiitunbank  is  owned  by  the  Yasar  Holding  Corporation. 

Before  1980  there  were  only  four  foreign  banks  in  Turkey, 
but  their  numbers  grew  rapidly  during  the  1980s  as  the  govern- 
ment liberalized  conditions.  Several  joint  ventures  were  cre- 
ated in  the  1980s,  as  well  as  two  Islamic  banks  specializing  in 
trade  finance. 

Private  banks  remain  the  most  vulnerable  sector  of  the 
banking  system  because  the  public  banks  enjoy  de  facto  state 
guarantees.  During  the  1980s,  most  private  banks  engaged  in 
trade  financing  or  in  sales  of  state  bonds  because  investment 
activity  was  depressed.  The  largest  private  banks  maintained 
their  ties  to  Turkey's  major  corporations  despite  a  1983  bank- 
ing law  enacted  to  discourage  such  links.  Although  a  few  pri- 
vate banks  were  able  to  eliminate  nonperforming  loans,  many 
remained  vulnerable  to  their  customers'  difficulties.  By  1986 
private-bank  balance  sheets  began  to  improve,  as  several  years 
of  high-interest  earnings  made  it  possible  for  banks  to  write  off 
bad  loans. 

Although  the  government,  public  enterprises,  and  private 
undertakings  increased  their  use  of  stocks  and  bonds  after 
1970,  capital  markets  remained  underdeveloped  in  the  1970s. 
After  the  passing  of  the  Capital  Markets  Law  in  1982,  a  Capital 
Markets  Board  was  established  to  issue  regulations  for  institu- 
tions marketing  bonds  and  other  financial  instruments.  Most 
Turkish  corporations  were  closely  held  and  tended  to  finance 
expansion  through  their  own  funds  from  their  small  circles  of 
stockholders.  But  in  the  1980s,  companies  were  allowed  to 
issue  profit-and-loss-sharing  certificates  with  liability  limited  to 
the  face  value  of  the  certificate.  The  Ozal  administration  also 
took  steps  to  revive  Istanbul's  stock  market,  which  had  closed 
down  in  the  late  1970s.  The  Istanbul  Stock  Exchange  (ISE) 
reopened  in  December  1985.  With  the  rise  of  "emerging  mar- 


213 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

ket"  funds,  trading  on  the  ISE  expanded  rapidly  in  the  early 
1990s;  indeed,  it  was  the  best  performing  of  any  market  in 
1993.  Foreign  investment  accounted  for  25  percent  of  the  daily 
trading  volume.  In  early  1994,  however,  the  stock  market 
crashed  in  the  wake  of  the  currency  and  balance  of  payments 
crisis.  Plans  for  privatization  of  SEEs  were  expected  to  revive 
the  stock  market,  if  foreign  investment  and  confidence  in  the 
government's  attempts  to  stabilize  the  macroeconomic  situa- 
tion increased. 

Government  securities  are  quite  liquid  in  secondary  mar- 
kets; this  has  been  true  especially  since  the  Treasury  began  issu- 
ing T-bills  in  1986  and  an  interbank  market  was  established  in 
1987.  Government  T-bill  issues  jumped  in  the  early  1990s  as  the 
budget  deficit  exploded.  In  1986  the  public  snapped  up 
revenue-sharing  certificates  used  to  finance  the  Keban  hydro- 
electric project  on  the  Euphrates;  the  Oymapinar  Dam,  also  on 
the  Euphrates  south  of  Malatya;  and  a  second  bridge  across  the 
Bosporus.  Such  certificates  were  popular,  in  part  because  they 
conformed  to  Islamic  strictures  prohibiting  interest.  Low 
returns  discouraged  the  government  from  using  such  certifi- 
cates in  the  1990s. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

Under  the  Ottomans,  foreign  companies  constructed  the 
portion  of  the  Berlin-to-Baghdad  railroad  that  crossed  Turkey, 
as  well  as  a  few  other  lines  used  mostly  for  mining  development 
and  the  export  of  agricultural  products.  Ataturk  and  the 
nationalists  took  an  active  interest  in  the  development  of  the 
railroad  system  for  strategic  reasons,  setting  up  the  Turkish 
Republic  State  Railways  (Tiirkiye  Cumhuriyeti  Devlet  Demir- 
yollari  Isletmesi  Genel  Mudurlugu — TCDD)  in  1920.  The 
nationalists  set  two  priorities  for  railroad  development:  extend- 
ing lines  to  major  areas,  such  as  eastern  Anatolia  and  the  new 
capital  at  Ankara,  and  buying  out  foreign  railroad  interests. 
The  TCDD  invested  large  sums  during  its  first  two  decades, 
bringing  all  railroads  under  state  control  by  1948  and  increas- 
ing track  lengths  from  4,018  kilometers  in  1923  to  7,324  kilo- 
meters in  1950.  By  1950  the  rail  system  linked  the  major  areas 
and  accounted  for  about  three-quarters  of  surface  freight  traf- 
fic. 

After  1950  the  railroads  received  only  small  investments  and 
insufficient  maintenance  because  of  increasing  emphasis  on 
road  transport.  By  the  1970s,  the  tracks  and  rolling  stock  were 


214 


The  Economy 


in  poor  condition  and  the  TCDD  was  running  chronic  deficits, 
partly  because  of  its  low  rate  structure.  In  the  1970s,  as  mining 
expanded  to  support  the  metalworking  and  fuel  industries,  the 
railroads  received  additional  funds  to  expand  and  upgrade  ser- 
vice. 

Between  1985  and  1992,  the  rail  network  grew  modestly, 
from  8,193  kilometers  of  track  to  8,430  kilometers.  Almost  all 
rail  was  single-tracked  and  nonelectrified.  Although  rail  lines 
linked  most  important  cities,  there  were  few  cross  connections 
between  lines,  and  routes  were  often  circuitous.  Passengers 
preferred  other  means  of  transport  because  the  railroads  were 
slow  and  unsafe;  in  1982  there  were  210  train  collisions  and  737 
derailments.  As  a  result  of  increased  use  of  trucks,  the  railroads 
carried  only  one-quarter  of  surface  freight,  mostly  long-haul 
bulk  commodities. 

After  World  War  II,  transportation  development  concen- 
trated on  the  road  system.  As  a  result,  by  early  1995  Turkey  had 
nearly  59,770  kilometers  of  all-weather  highways,  of  which 
about  27,000  kilometers  were  paved.  There  were  also  some 
308,000  kilometers  of  gravel  and  earth  roads  in  rural  areas. 
The  government  planned  to  build  3,000  additional  kilometers 
by  the  year  2000  and  to  upgrade  existing  roads. 

The  Ozal  administration  in  the  early  1980s  began  a  major 
project  that  was  expected  to  result  in  highways  that  would 
traverse  the  country,  making  it  possible  for  Turkey  to  handle 
increased  levels  of  freight  between  Europe  and  the  Middle 
East.  This  project,  along  with  the  second  bridge  across  the 
Bosporus,  would  form  a  3,600-kilometer  link  in  a 
10,000-kilometer  trans-European  highway  going  from  Gdansk 
on  the  Baltic  Sea  to  cities  on  the  Caspian  Sea  and  the  Persian 
Gulf. 

Several  road  and  highway  improvements  were  underway  in 
the  mid-1990s.  The  four-lane  highway  linking  Ankara,  Istanbul, 
and  Edirne  is  complete  except  for  a  thirty-kilometer  stretch 
under  construction  west  of  Bolu  (see  fig.  11).  Another  four- 
lane  highway  in  the  southeast,  designed  to  link  Gaziantep  with 
Mersin  via  Adana,  lacks  about  eighty  kilometers  west  of 
Gaziantep.  Another  offshoot  of  this  highway  that  would  con- 
nect with  Iskenderun  via  Dortyol  is  under  construction.  Other 
highways  in  the  planning  stage  include  improved  links  between 
Iskenderun  and  Antalya,  Ankara  and  Adana,  and  Istanbul  and 
Izmir.  Additional  highways  are  needed  because  traffic  is 
extremely  dense  around  major  cities  in  western  Anatolia,  creat- 


215 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


The  Economy 


ing  frequent  traffic  jams  and  contributing  to  a  high  accident 
rate. 

Truck  transport  of  surface  freight  increased  from  about  25 
percent  of  the  total  of  such  freight  in  1950  to  more  than  75 
percent  by  the  mid-1980s.  According  to  one  source,  in  1984 
trucks  carried  about  40  percent  of  exports  by  tonnage.  As  the 
oil  boom  hit  the  Persian  Gulf  states  and  imports  clogged  their 
ports  during  the  mid-1970s,  heavy  truck  traffic  passed  through 
Turkey.  By  1985,  however,  transit  traffic  had  fallen  off  some- 
what as  a  result  of  the  fall  in  demand  from  oil-exporting  coun- 
tries and  a  cutback  on  purchases  by  Iran  and  Iraq.  The  end  of 
the  Iran-Iraq  War  modestly  helped  revive  transit  traffic,  which 
was  disrupted  again  by  the  1990  Iraqi  invasion  of  Kuwait  and 
the  resulting  UN  embargo.  In  the  mid-1990s,  goods  moved  by 
truck  accounted  for  27  percent  of  total  export  tonnage. 

Shipping  is  much  less  important  than  land  transport,  but 
capacity  expanded  rapidly  in  the  early  1990s.  The  Ozal  admin- 
istration encouraged  the  growth  of  Turkey's  merchant  marine 
by  granting  tax  rebates  to  companies  registering  their  ships 
under  the  Turkish  flag.  As  a  result,  the  fleet  grew  from  about 
1.7  million  gross  registered  tons  (GRT)  in  1975  to  about  2.5 
million  GRT  in  1983.  In  1990  the  merchant  marine's  2,996 
cargo  ships  had  a  combined  capacity  of  about  3.8  million  GRT. 
A  large  number  of  these  ships  were  owned  by  the  Maritime 
Bank  (Denizcilik  Bankasi)  and  Deniz  Nakliyati,  a  large  private 
company.  In  the  1980s  and  early  1990s,  private  cargo  lines 
expanded  rapidly.  Aside  from  the  ferry  across  Lake  Van,  inter- 
nal shipping  is  insignificant  because  few  of  Turkey's  rivers  are 
navigable. 

Five  ports  handle  the  bulk  of  the  country's  sea  freight.  Istan- 
bul is  the  most  important  port,  followed  by  Mersin,  Izmir,  Isk- 
enderun,  and  Kocaeli.  There  are  also  many  small  ports  along 
the  country's  extensive  coastline;  coastal  shipping  is  substan- 
tial, particularly  of  such  bulk  commodities  as  coal  and  iron  ore. 
Cargo  handling  is  slow  and  storage  limited,  however.  The  main 
oil  terminals  near  Iskenderun  handle  both  domestic  and  Iraqi 
crude.  In  1992  ships  brought  60  million  tons  of  cargo  to  Tur- 
key; 26  million  tons  were  exported  by  sea. 

Turkey  has  105  usable  airports,  sixty-nine  of  which  have 
paved  runways.  Turkish  Airlines  (Turk  Hava  Yollari — THY), 
plagued  by  a  poor  safety  record  in  the  1970s,  fought  its  way 
back  to  profitability  during  the  1980s,  although  heavy  capital 
expenditures  in  the  1990s  put  it  back  in  the  red.  By  1995  it  was 


217 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

a  prime  candidate  for  partial  privatization,  which  was  expected 
to  net  the  government  US$300  million.  By  1985  Turkish  Air- 
lines was  serving  thirty-six  international  and  sixteen  domestic 
destinations  with  a  fleet  that  had  been  recently  augmented  by 
the  purchase  of  several  Airbus  Industrie  A-310  passenger  air- 
craft. Much  of  the  company's  international  business  involves 
serving  the  many  Turks  who  work  in  Europe  and  the  Middle 
East.  Domestic  flights  are  popular  because  surface  travel 
between  major  cities  is  time  consuming;  THYs  domestic  ser- 
vices probably  will  be  further  upgraded.  In  1992  the  total  num- 
ber of  passengers  carried  to,  from,  or  within  Turkey  on  all 
airlines  landing  in  Turkey  reached  about  13.8  million  (about 
2.8  million  domestic  and  11  million  international);  the  domes- 
tic carrier  transported  about  2.4  million  passengers  within  Tur- 
key and  about  1.7  million  international  passengers.  Private 
airlines  entered  the  market  in  the  1980s;  Istanbul  Airlines  and 
Green  Air  handle  both  domestic  and  foreign  routes. 

Turkey's  archaic  telecommunications  system,  which  had 
long  been  overloaded,  received  expanded  domestic  and  inter- 
national lines  in  the  1980s  and  early  1990s.  Until  the  1980s, 
more  than  half  of  Turkey's  villages  lacked  telephone  connec- 
tions, and  customers  had  to  wait  years  to  get  telephones 
installed.  In  the  early  1980s,  authorities  designed  a  program  to 
eliminate  the  waiting  list  for  telephones;  make  service  available 
to  all  of  the  country's  settlements;  and  install  countrywide  auto- 
matic dialing,  a  new  telex  system,  and  a  connection  with  the 
European  telecommunications  satellite.  The  number  of  tele- 
phones increased  from  about  351,000  in  1966  to  an  estimated 
7.96  million  by  the  end  of  1991. 

The  Turkish  Radio-Television  Corporation  (Turkiye  Radyo- 
Televizyon  Kurumu — TRT)  has  flagship  radio  stations  in 
Ankara  and  Istanbul,  with  subsidiary  networks  in  fifteen  other 
urban  centers.  Frequency  modulation  (FM)  transmitters  are 
located  in  ten  cities,  including  Ankara  and  Istanbul.  In  addi- 
tion to  Turkish,  broadcasts  are  made  in  Albanian,  Arabic,  Azer- 
baijani, Bulgarian,  Chinese,  English,  French,  German,  Greek, 
Hungarian,  Persian,  Romanian,  Serbo-Croatian,  and  Urdu. 
Turkish  television  has  two  main  channels  that  reach  more  than 
forty  population  centers.  The  Istanbul  area  has  three  addi- 
tional channels.  In  early  1995,  the  Turkish  population  had 
some  8.8  million  radios  and  some  10.53  million  television  sets. 


218 


The  Economy 


Tourism 

Turkey's  long  and  varied  sea  coast,  high  mountains  and 
lakes,  and  its  many  historical,  religious,  and  archaeological  sites 
(possibly  including  more  Greek  ruins  than  survive  in  Greece) 
give  the  country  unrivaled  tourist  potential.  Until  the  1980s, 
Turkish  tourism  lagged  far  behind  its  counterparts  in  other 
Mediterranean  countries,  and  visitors  tended  to  stay  for  shorter 
periods  of  time  and  spend  less  money  than  in  countries  such  as 
Spain,  Portugal,  and  Greece.  The  Ozal  government's  promo- 
tion of  tourism  in  the  1980s  led  to  dramatic  change.  The  num- 
ber of  visitors  grew  rapidly  during  the  1980s  and  early  1990s, 
and  Turkey  was  able  to  appeal  to  tourists  from  many  different 
countries.  Including  business  travelers,  Turkey  hosted  about 
1.3  million  visitors  in  1983  and  2.1  million  in  1984,  whereas 
Greece  during  the  same  period  received  at  least  6  million  and 
Spain  40  million  visitors  annually.  By  1987  visits  to  Turkey  had 
increased  to  about  2.9  million,  and  by  1992  close  to  7  million. 

In  the  ear \f\ 980s,  most  tourists  came  from  European  coun- 
tries, especially  Greece  and  West  Germany,  but  the  number  of 
Middle  Eastern  tourists  also  increased.  Even  in  the  late  1980s, 
however,  European  tourists  accounted  for  nearly  61  percent  of 
total  arrivals.  By  1992  the  European  proportion  had  fallen  to 
45  percent.The  largest  increase  was  registered  in  tourists  from 
the  republics  of  the  former  Soviet  Union.  By  1992  they 
accounted  for  43  percent  of  tourists,  whereas  the  Middle  East- 
ern share  had  shrunk  from  11  percent  to  8  percent. 

Regional  origin  is  a  good  predictor  of  the  type  of  tourism 
and  destination.  Middle-class  Turks,  who  started  to  take  vaca- 
tions in  the  early  1980s,  usually  prefer  the  beach  resorts  on  the 
Aegean  and  Mediterranean  seas.  Tourists  from  Western 
Europe,  Israel,  and  the  United  States  tend  to  visit  beaches  and 
historical  sites.  East  European  tourists,  particularly  from  the 
former  Soviet  Union,  typically  come  to  Istanbul  or  Black  Sea 
towns  to  shop  or  barter  goods.  Tourists  from  Iran  and  other 
Middle  Eastern  countries  generally  take  longer  holidays  in 
Istanbul  and  Bursa,  also  coming  to  shop  in  Turkey. 

Although  tourism  earnings  reached  US$770  million  in  1985 
and  jumped  to  US$3.6  billion  by  1992,  the  industry  has  been 
plagued  by  political,  economic,  and  environmental  problems. 
The  fallout  from  the  nuclear  power  plant  disaster  at  Chernobyl 
in  the  Soviet  Union,  terrorist  attacks  by  Kurdish  insurgents, 
and  economic  problems  in  Europe  and  the  Middle  East  have 
tended  to  discourage  tourism.  Turkey  has  attempted  to  over- 


219 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

come  these  impediments  by  improving  domestic  services.  The 
number  of  beds  for  visitors  rose  from  about  49,000  in  1980  to 
about  206,000  in  1992,  for  example.  The  total  will  probably 
reach  600,000  by  the  end  of  the  1990s.  One  important  effort, 
the  South  Antalya  Project,  involves  transforming  a 
seventy-four-kilometer  stretch  of  Mediterranean  beaches  into  a 
base  for  resort  villages.  Istanbul,  the  main  tourist  center,  still 
lacks  sufficient  beds,  however,  and  there  is  a  tendency  to 
concentrate  on  luxury  hotels  that  are  too  expensive  for 
middle-class  tourists.  Nevertheless,  the  mid-1990s  saw  a  notice- 
able improvement  in  the  average  spending  per  day  by  tourists: 
US$141  compared  with  the  world  average  of  US$70-US$100. 
Shopping  tours  helped  raise  the  average  significantly. 

Foreign  Economic  Relations 
Foreign  Trade 

Trade  played  a  minor  role  in  the  economy  until  1980  but 
grew  rapidly  thereafter,  the  sum  of  exports  and  imports  reach- 
ing about  49  percent  of  GNP  by  1985.  By  1994  this  total  had 
fallen  somewhat,  to  42  percent  of  GNP.  The  trend  toward 
increased  trade  had  begun  in  the  1970s  as  imports  increased — 
primarily  as  a  result  of  the  rise  in  oil  prices — and  limited  incen- 
tives for  exports  were  implemented.  The  turning  point  came 
after  1980,  when  a  realistic  exchange  rate,  strict  monetary  pol- 
icy, and  efforts  to  strengthen  bilateral  cooperation  with  the 
country's  trading  partners  led  to  sharply  increased  exports. 
Improvements  in  the  balance  of  trade,  in  turn,  allowed  gradual 
liberalization  of  the  import  regime. 

Turkey's  trade  policy  traditionally  has  been  subordinate  to 
the  country's  etatist  development  strategy.  The  demand  for 
imports  historically  has  exceeded  the  country's  supply  of  for- 
eign currency,  forcing  the  government  to  set  up  extensive  con- 
trols to  mobilize  foreign  exchange  for  products  deemed 
essential  for  investment  or  production.  As  Turkish  industry 
developed,  the  proportion  of  finished  goods  declined  as  a 
share  of  imports.  Despite  liberalization  of  import  regulations 
after  1980,  in  the  mid-1990s  petroleum,  machinery,  and  indus- 
trial raw  materials  continued  to  account  for  the  bulk  of  Turkish 
imports. 

Turkey's  export  performance  since  1980  has  been  particu- 
larly striking.  Traditionally,  Turkey  has  exported  agricultural 
products  and  minerals.  As  of  1980,  total  merchandise  exports 


220 


221 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

amounted  to  about  US$2.9  billion,  or  5  percent  of  GNP,  of 
which  58  percent  was  agricultural  products,  22  percent  pro- 
cessed agricultural  products  and  textiles,  and  6.5  percent  min- 
eral products.  By  1992,  when  exports  reached  17  percent  of 
GNP,  the  share  of  processed  and  manufactured  products  had 
risen  to  82  percent,  whereas  the  share  of  agricultural  exports 
had  declined  to  15.0  percent  and  that  of  minerals  to  1.7  per- 
cent (see  table  9,  Appendix  A).  The  shift  in  the  structure  of 
exports  resulted  largely  from  the  trend  toward  domestic  pro- 
cessing of  agricultural  products  before  exportation,  which 
caused  them  to  be  reclassified  as  industrial  exports.  Textile 
exports  also  increased  during  the  1980s,  becoming  twice  as 
important  as  agricultural  exports  by  1992.  Observers  had 
expected  that  limitations  on  textile  imports  implemented  by 
industrialized  countries  would  hamper  growth  in  textile 
exports  during  the  late  1980s,  but  special  concessions  by  the 
United  States  in  1990 — related  to  compensation  for  Turkey's 
effort  in  the  Persian  Gulf  crisis — helped  open  export  markets 
even  further.  Industrial  diversification  has  enabled  Turkey  to 
export  a  wide  range  of  products,  including  rubber,  plastics, 
petroleum  products,  glass,  ceramics,  and  cement. 

Turkey's  trade  is  largely  with  Organisation  for  Economic  Co- 
operation and  Development  (OECD)  members,  particularly 
the  European  countries,  notwithstanding  a  sharp  upswing  in 
trade  with  Middle  Eastern  oil-producing  countries  in  the  early 
1980s.  Exports  to  the  EG  increased  from  35  percent  of  total 
exports  in  1950  to  almost  45  percent  in  1992,  while  imports 
from  the  EC  grew  from  33  percent  to  about  40  percent  during 
the  same  period.  Turkey's  most  important  trading  partner,  Ger- 
many, accounted  for  15  percent  of  imports  and  24  percent  of 
exports  in  1993.  Trade  with  Middle  Eastern  countries 
increased  considerably  after  1970,  partly  as  a  result  of  Turkey's 
increased  expenditures  for  petroleum  imports,  and  peaked  in 
1982  at  45  percent  of  total  trade,  declining  to  about  15  percent 
by  the  early  1990s.  Turkey's  commerce  with  Iran  and  Iraq  was 
important  because  they  bought  food  and  other  products  and 
provided  petroleum  to  Turkey  in  exchange  (see  table  10, 
Appendix  A).  Turkey  remained  neutral  in  the  Iran-Iraq  War, 
hoping  for  further  improvement  in  trade  when  the  two  coun- 
tries made  peace.  The  embargo  on  Iraq  after  its  invasion  of 
Kuwait  dramatically  reduced  Turkish-Iraqi  trade.  In  1988  Tur- 
key sent  8.8  percent  of  its  exports  to  Iraq  and  bought  10  per- 


222 


The  Economy 


cent  of  its  imports  from  that  country.  Trade  between  the  two 
countries  was  almost  nonexistent  in  1994. 

Trade  with  the  United  States  was  much  greater  in  the  1950s 
and  1960s  than  in  the  1970s  and  1980s.  In  1992  imports  from 
the  United  States  constituted  a  little  over  11  percent  of  Tur- 
key's total  imports,  but  exports  to  the  United  States  repre- 
sented only  6  percent  of  Turkey's  exports  (see  table  11, 
Appendix  A).  Although  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union  began  in 
the  1930s  and  the  Soviet  Union  supplied  much  aid,  in  1992 
imports  from  the  former  Soviet  Union  constituted  less  than  1 
percent  of  Turkey's  imports,  while  exports  were  about  5  per- 
cent of  the  total.  Historically,  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union  and 
Eastern  Europe  had  increased  to  more  than  10  percent  of  total 
trade  during  periods,  such  as  the  late  1970s,  when  Turkey  expe- 
rienced balance  of  payments  difficulties. 

After  1980  Turkey  shifted  its  emphasis  in  trade  policy  from 
strictly  limiting  imports  to  actively  encouraging  exports.  In 
March  1985,  Turkey  signed  the  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs 
and  Trade  (GATT),  which  committed  the  country  to  abolish- 
ing most  export  subsidies  over  a  three-year  period.  In  January 
1993,  in  accordance  with  its  commitments  under  the  GATT 
agreement,  Turkey  consolidated  and  reduced  most  import 
charges. 

Turkey  and  the  EC  entered  into  an  association  agreement 
on  December  1,  1964,  with  the  aim  of  full  membership  for  Tur- 
key after  the  implementation  of  a  customs  union,  which  the 
Turkish  government  hoped  would  occur  in  1995.  Turkey's 
record  in  meeting  the  European  body's  tariff-reduction  sched- 
ule has  undergone  several  permutations.  It  was  adhered  to 
until  1976,  when  it  was  abandoned,  only  to  be  reinstituted  in 
December  1987.  Several  Turkish  industries — in  particular  the 
automobile  industry — fear  total  integration,  whereas  the  EU  in 
the  mid-1990s  fears  the  competitive  strength  of  the  Turkish  tex- 
tile industry. 

Balance  of  Payments 

Throughout  the  twentieth  century,  Turkey  has  suffered 
from  a  shortage  of  foreign  exchange,  a  problem  that  has  con- 
tinued despite  the  improved  export  performance  of  the  1980s 
and  the  early  1990s.  During  the  1950-80  period,  three  balance 
of  payments  crises  followed  periods  of  rapid  economic  growth. 
After  the  crisis  of  the  late  1950s,  brought  on  by  inflationary 
financial  policies  and  excessive  use  of  short-term  commercial 


223 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

credits,  Turkey  received  substantial  aid  from  an  OECD  consor- 
tium, and  the  country's  external  debt  had  to  be  rescheduled. 
The  foreign-exchange  shortage  of  the  1960s  was  less  the  result 
of  inflation  than  of  increased  demand  for  imports.  The  1970 
devaluation,  along  with  increased  workers'  remittances  during 
the  early  1970s,  sufficed  to  overcome  the  problem.  Turkey's 
improved  balance  of  payments  status  during  the  first  half  of  the 
1970s  allowed  the  government  to  resort  to  foreign  borrowing 
to  finance  rapid  economic  growth.  However,  the  1970  devalua- 
tion, government  deficits,  and  the  1973  oil  price  increase  wors- 
ened inflation.  After  1976  Turkey  tried  several  reform 
packages,  none  of  which  effectively  addressed  the  underlying 
causes  of  the  deficits.  In  1979  Turkey's  creditors  had  to 
reschedule  some  US$14  billion  in  debt  in  an  arrangement  that 
delayed  repayments  of  principal  for  five  years. 

The  policy  package  introduced  after  1980  enabled  growth 
to  resume,  largely  by  improving  the  balance  of  trade.  Exports 
grew  at  an  annual  average  rate  of  more  than  20  percent  from 
1980  to  1985,  much  more  rapidly  than  imports,  reducing  the 
trade  deficit  from  more  than  US$4.6  billion  in  1980  to  an  aver- 
age of  slightly  less  than  US$3  billion  a  year  from  1983  to  1985. 
Nevertheless,  Turkey's  merchandise  trade  balance  remained  in 
deficit  because  of  continued  high  levels  of  imports. 

In  1993-94,  Turkey  experienced  its  fourth  major  balance  of 
payments  crisis  in  the  past  forty  years,  despite  a  decade  of 
reforms  and  structural  adjustment.  An  expansionist  fiscal  and 
monetary  policy  had  led  to  a  sharp  deterioration  in  the  trade 
balance  in  1993  as  imports  soared  to  US$29  billion,  while 
exports  lagged  sharply  behind  at  US$15.6  billion  (see  table  12, 
Appendix  A).  A  draconian  adjustment  program  accompanied 
by  an  IMF  standby  agreement  helped  sharply  reduce  imports  in 
1994,  but  the  trade  deficit  remained  around  US$4  billion  and 
was  projected  at  about  the  same  level  for  1995. 

Economic  reforms  had  strengthened  the  services  account  of 
the  balance  of  payments  in  the  1980s,  although  this  increase 
was  insufficient  to  offset  the  periodic  deterioration  of  the  trade 
account  in  the  1990s.  Meanwhile,  remittances  from  Turkish 
workers  abroad  remained  an  important  source  of  foreign 
exchange.  Remittances  averaged  roughly  US$2  billion  annually 
from  1980  to  1985  but  fell  during  that  period  from  a  peak  of 
almost  US$2.5  billion  in  1981  to  US$1.7  billion  in  1985.  In  the 
late  1980s,  they  once  again  recovered,  reaching  a  level  of  US$3 
billion  during  the  first  half  of  the  1990s.  The  flow  of  remit- 


224 


The  Economy 


tances  through  legal  channels  is  very  sensitive  to  the  real 
exchange  rate  and  to  foreign-exchange  regulations. 

Tourism  was  a  relatively  small  source  of  services  income 
until  1985  when  earnings  jumped  to  US$770  million,  reaching 
around  US$4  billion  in  1994  as  investments  in  this  sector  paid 
off.  Interest  payments  on  Turkey's  foreign  debt,  which  aver- 
aged about  US$1.5  billion  from  1980  to  1985,  grew  to  US$3.2 
billion  in  1990  and  were  US$3.6  billion  in  1994.  They 
remained  a  major  burden  on  the  services  account. 

Turkey's  deficit  on  the  current  account  declined  from 
US$3.4  billion  in  1980  to  about  US$1  billion  in  1985  as  a  result 
of  the  decline  in  the  trade  deficit  and  the  increased  surplus  on 
the  services  account.  Despite  fluctuations  mid-decade,  by  the 
end  of  the  1980s  the  current-  account  deficit  was  sharply 
reduced,  although  1990  saw  the  deficit  at  US$2.6  billion  as  a 
result  of  high  oil  prices  and  loss  of  income  stemming  from  the 
Persian  Gulf  War.  Aid  payments  and  certain  policy  measures 
led  to  a  small  surplus  in  1991,  but  a  lax  fiscal  and  monetary  pol- 
icy by  1993  pushed  the  deficit  to  its  highest  level  at  US$6.4  bil- 
lion. The  policy  measures  enacted  in  coordination  with  the 
IMF  helped  the  current  account  register  a  surplus  of  US$3  bil- 
lion in  1994. 

Turkey's  capital  account  suffered  from  the  heavy  foreign- 
debt  payments  that  came  due  in  increasing  amounts  after  1985. 
Heavy  borrowing  in  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s  pushed  prin- 
cipal payments  up  to  US$4.4  billion  in  1993,  US$5.9  billion  in 
1994,  and  a  projected  US$7.7  billion  in  1995.  As  a  percent  of 
exports  of  goods  and  services,  Turkey's  debt-service  ratio  rose 
to  33  percent  in  1994,  close  to  crisis  levels. 

Domestic  savings  were  insufficient  for  the  country's  develop- 
ment plans,  making  continued  foreign  borrowing  necessary. 
Direct  foreign  investment  averaged  only  US$70  million  from 
1980  to  1985,  as  foreign  investors  hesitated  to  put  money  into 
the  country.  The  growth  of  emerging  market  funds  in  the 
developed  countries,  combined  with  Turkey's  economic-  and 
financial-sector  reforms,  had  led  to  a  sharp  increase  in  foreign 
direct  and  portfolio  investment  in  the  1990s.  In  1994  such 
investments  were  estimated  at  US$300  million.  However,  the 
country's  1994  balance  of  payments  crisis  was  expected  to 
dampen  near-term  enthusiasm  for  Turkish  stocks  and  bonds. 

Turkey's  short-term  debt  increased  in  the  mid-  and  late 
1980s  as  the  country  scrambled  to  meet  debt  payments.  In  1985 
Turkey  broke  off  negotiations  with  the  IMF  concerning  a 


225 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

standby  agreement  and  turned  to  commercial  banks  for 
short-term  loans.  In  1986  alone,  Turkey's  outstanding 
short-term  debt  increased  by  more  than  40  percent  to  at  least 
US$9.4  billion.  As  a  result,  short-term  debt  amounted  to  about 
33  percent  of  total  foreign  debt,  a  development  that  sparked 
concerns  abroad.  By  early  1987,  it  was  reported  that  some  for- 
eign banks  were  limiting  long-term  loans  to  Turkey  pending 
the  outcome  of  the  1987  local  elections.  A  similar  situation 
transpired  in  1993  in  the  run-up  to  the  1994  local  elections. 
Short-term  debt  jumped  from  US$9.5  billion  in  1990  to 
US$12.7  billion  in  1992  and  US$18.5  billion  in  1993.  The  aus- 
terity measures  enacted  by  the  government  and  a  surplus  on 
the  current  account  helped  reduce  the  short-term  debt  to 
US$12.6  billion  by  the  end  of  1994,  when  long-term  debt  was 
US$52.8  billion.  A  little  more  than  half  of  this  amount  was 
owed  to  private-sector  creditors,  which  was  a  sign  of  the  success 
of  the  economic  reforms  of  the  1980s.  Nonetheless,  bilateral 
and  multilateral  creditors  accounted  for  nearly  US$18  billion. 
The  relative  shares  of  private  and  public  creditors  were 
expected  to  change  during  the  mid-1990s  as  Turkey  was 
obliged  to  borrow  more  from  international  agencies  to  stabi- 
lize its  balance  of  payments. 

Regional  Economic  Integration 

After  1980  Turkey's  need  for  foreign  markets  led  the  coun- 
try to  try  to  strengthen  cooperation  with  trading  partners 
worldwide.  Trade  ties  with  the  Middle  East  received  particular 
attention  under  Ozal,  but  Turkish  businesspeople  also  worked 
to  improve  trade  with  countries  in  North  America,  East  Asia, 
and  Eastern  Europe.  In  the  protectionist  climate  of  the  mid- 
and  late  1980s,  policy  makers  also  took  up  proposals  for 
regional  integration  with  the  economies  of  Turkey's  West  Euro- 
pean and  Middle  Eastern  neighbors. 

For  many  years,  Turkish  policy  makers  and  politicians  had 
expressed  interest  in  closer  multilateral  cooperation  with  other 
Islamic  countries,  especially  with  oil-producing  Middle  Eastern 
states.  Starting  in  the  late  1970s,  Turkey's  increased  attention  to 
Middle  Eastern  markets  boosted  exports  of  manufactured 
goods  and  construction  services,  attracted  tourists  from  Middle 
Eastern  countries,  and  provided  additional  sources  of  foreign 
direct  investment  and  commercial  financing.  During  the  early 
1980s,  exports  to  Iran,  Iraq,  Libya,  and  Saudi  Arabia  grew  rap- 
idly but  then  declined  again  after  1982  as  oil  revenues  fell.  In 


226 


Fatih  Bridge  over  the  Bosporus  in  Istanbul 
Courtesy  Hermine  Dreyfus s 


the  mid-1980s,  Turkey  served  as  a  conduit  for  West  European 
exports  to  Iran  under  a  countertrade  arrangement  according 
to  which  Turkey  received  oil  and  other  commodities  in 
exchange  for  manufactures.  Trade  with  Iraq  was  reduced  after 
the  latter  announced  in  late  1985  that  it  could  not  make  more 
than  US$1.2  billion  in  payments,  thereby  forcing  credit  from 
Turkey.  Although  the  Turks  remained  open  to  discussions  of 
an  "Islamic  common  market,"  disappointment  with  Middle 
Eastern  markets  in  the  mid-1980s  refocused  their  attention  on 
upgrading  economic  ties  with  Western  Europe. 

During  the  early  1970s,  both  European  countries  and  Tur- 
key adhered  to  the  terms  of  a  1973  protocol  for  reducing  trade 
barriers.  The  EC  began  granting  preferential  treatment  to 
most  Turkish  agricultural  imports,  and  Turkey  was  given  a 
period  of  twenty-two  years  to  align  its  agricultural  policies  with 
the  EC's  Common  Agricultural  Policy  (see  Glossary).  In  1977, 


227 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

however,  Turkey  stopped  reducing  tariffs  on  EC  goods  because 
of  the  deterioration  of  the  domestic  economy.  By  the  late 
1970s,  relations  had  deteriorated  between  Turkey  and  the  EC. 
The  EC  imposed  quotas  and  other  restrictions  on  certain  Turk- 
ish imports,  including  cotton  yarn  and  T-shirts;  in  retaliation, 
Turkey  applied  levies  on  imports  of  European  iron  and  steel. 
In  1980  the  military  coup  froze  relations  between  Turkey  and 
the  EC,  although  the  EC  continued  to  apply  the  commercial 
provisions  of  the  association  agreement.  After  1981  the  EC  sus- 
pended financial  assistance  in  the  amount  of  600  million  Euro- 
pean Currency  Units  (see  Glossary)  because  of  reservations 
concerning  human  rights  violations  under  Turkey's  military 
government. 

After  Turkey's  return  to  civilian  government  in  1983,  politi- 
cal relations  between  Turkey  and  the  EC  countries  began  to 
improve,  and  in  September  1986  the  EC-Turkey  Association 
Council  held  its  first  meeting  since  the  1980  coup.  In  early 
1987,  West  European  diplomats  seemed  to  be  united  in  urging 
Turkey  to  pursue  the  advantages  offered  by  the  association 
agreement,  including  the  provision  for  a  customs  union  by 
1995,  before  making  an  application  for  membership.  In  April 
1987,  the  Ozal  government  overrode  both  Turkish  hesitation 
and  European  misgivings  and  made  a  formal  application  for 
EC  membership.  The  European  Commission  issued  an  official 
opinion  on  the  Turkish  application  in  December  1989,  which 
was  later  adopted  unchanged  by  the  community's  Council  of 
Ministers.  In  this  opinion,  the  commission  proposed  that  nego- 
tiations should  not  begin  until  1993.  Negotiations  thereafter 
led  the  EU  to  vote  for  Turkey's  inclusion  in  the  free-trade  area 
in  1995. 

Some  observers  have  postulated  that  the  EU  will  never 
admit  Turkey.  In  addition  to  criticizing  Turkey's  human  rights 
policies,  they  cite  three  main  reasons.  First,  the  level  of  indus- 
trialization in  Turkey  lags  behind  that  of  the  European  econo- 
mies. Second,  the  degree  of  budgetary  transfers  from  the  EU 
necessary  to  lift  Turkey  to  the  levels  of  even  the  poorest  Euro- 
pean countries  would  place  a  huge  burden  on  Europe's 
resources.  Third,  given  that  entry  into  the  union  permits  labor 
mobility,  Turkey's  economic  structure,  relatively  high  unem- 
ployment, and  low  wages  particularly  discourage  Europeans  at 
a  time  when  violence  in  Europe  against  foreigners  has 
increased  dramatically,  mainly  as  a  result  of  high  levels  of  job- 
lessness there. 


228 


The  Economy 


Since  the  fall  of  the  Soviet  Union,  Turkey  has  shown  a  keen 
interest  in  developing  strong  economic  ties  with  the  states  of 
Central  Asia,  the  Caucasus,  and  the  Black  Sea  region.  In  1990 
Turkey  and  the  other  states — Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  Bulgaria, 
Georgia,  Greece,  Moldova,  Romania,  Russia,  and  Ukraine — 
surrounding  the  Black  Sea  initiated  the  Black  Sea  Economic 
Cooperation  (BSEC)  project  to  broaden  and  deepen  coopera- 
tion and  trade  relations  among  themselves,  nonmember  states, 
and  other  regional  structures.  Despite  obstacles,  on  June  24, 
1992,  a  basic  structure,  including  concrete  plans  for  integra- 
tion, was  articulated.  The  most  ambitious  aspect  of  the  BSEC  is 
an  attempt  to  create  a  free-trade  area  to  promote  easy  move- 
ment of  capital,  labor,  and  goods.  The  wide  range  of  generally 
complementary  economies  in  the  BSEC  area  is  seen  as  a  factor 
encouraging  integration.  Nonetheless,  one  important  differ- 
ence among  the  economies — particularly  between  the  Turkish 
economy  and  those  of  the  republics  of  the  former  Soviet 
Union — is  that  many  of  them  are  only  in  the  early  stages  of 
transition  from  statist  structures.  Some  observers  consider  this 
an  impediment  to  smooth  integration.  Another  major  project 
of  the  BSEC  is  the  creation  of  a  development  bank  to  finance 
projects  in  the  region.  Some  observers,  however,  have  noted 
that  in  a  capital-poor  area  the  ability  of  such  an  institution  to 
mobilize  sufficient  funds  from  within  the  region  must  be 
doubted. 

Outlook 

Regionally,  Turkey  faces  a  host  of  potential  political  and 
security  threats,  largely  as  a  consequence  of  the  end  of  the 
Cold  War  and  conflicts  in  the  Middle  East,  which  have  forced 
the  government  to  devote  extensive  resources  to  the  military. 
Also,  Turkey's  attempts  to  forge  regional  cooperation  arrange- 
ments and  exploit  economic  opportunities  have  been  largely 
stillborn.  Strong  nationalist  sentiment  at  home,  combined  with 
a  poor  human  rights  record,  also  contributes  to  an  uncertain 
domestic  economic  future.  The  Kurdish  insurgency  has  taken 
its  toll  on  government  resources  and  foreign  confidence.  Tur- 
key's long-standing  attempt  to  integrate  its  economy  into  that 
of  Europe  has  been  jeopardized  by  the  opposition  of  European 
governments  to  Turkey's  incursion  into  Iraq  in  late  1994  and  its 
repression  of  its  Kurdish  population. 

Despite  setbacks,  the  steady  liberalization  of  the  economy 
and  integration  into  the  world  economy  begun  by  former  Pres- 


229 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

ident  Ozal  has  continued  without  interruption.  Turkey's  trade 
sector  accounts  for  a  growing  proportion  of  GDP,  and  foreign 
funds  are  a  major  source  of  investment.  Despite  crises  in  mid- 
1994  such  as  the  devaluation  of  the  currency,  the  stock  market 
crash,  and  a  number  of  bank  failures,  Turkey  has  been  desig- 
nated a  major  emerging  market  by  the  main  international 
financial  centers.  And  because  a  large  proportion  of  foreign 
investments  has  gone  into  industrialization,  most  observers 
have  expressed  confidence  in  the  economy  and  the  govern- 
ment's ability  to  steer  it  carefully  toward  the  objective  of  mak- 
ing Turkey  a  major  regional  and  international  industrial  power. 

*         *  * 

The  OECD's  annual  economic  survey,  Turkey,  is  an  authori- 
tative and  readily  available  summary  of  the  Turkish  economy 
that  includes  up-to-date  statistical  tables.  The  International 
Energy  Agency's  Energy  Statistics  and  Balances  ofOECD  Countries 
provides  energy  sector  data  on  Turkey.  Economic  data  on  Tur- 
key can  also  be  found  in  the  publications  of  the  World  Bank 
and  the  International  Monetary  Fund. 

The  Turkish  weekly  journal  Briefing  provides  insightful, 
lively,  and  independent  analysis  of  the  Turkish  economy. 
Among  non-Turkish  journals,  regular  economic  and  political 
coverage  can  be  found  in  the  Financial  Times,  Middle  East  Eco- 
nomic Digest,  and  the  Economist  Intelligence  Unit's  annual 
Country  Profile:  Turkey.  The  Middle  East  Journal  and  Middle  East 
Report  offer  in-depth  articles  on  Turkey.  Three  excellent  books 
on  Turkey  that  include  discussion  of  the  economic  and  politi- 
cal consequences  of  structural  adjustment  are  Ziya  Onis  and 
James  Riedel's  Economic  Crises  and  Long-Term  Growth  in  Turkey, 
F.T.  Nas  and  Mehmet  Odekon's  Liberalization  and  the  Turkish 
Economy,  and  The  Political  and  Socioeconomic  Transformation  of 
Turkey  by  Atila  Eralp  et  al.  (For  further  information  and  com- 
plete citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


230 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


Double-headed  eagle,  symbol  of  the  ancient  Seljuk  Turks 


TURKEYS  POLITICAL  SWEM  faced  four  distinct  but  inter- 
twined challenges  in  early  1995:  accommodating  the  disaf- 
fected Kurdish  ethnic  minority;  reconciling  the  growing 
differences,  expressed  with  increasing  stridency,  between  the 
secular  elite  and  groups  using  traditional  Islamic  symbols  to 
manifest  their  opposition  to  the  political  status  quo;  establish- 
ing firm  civilian  control  over  the  military,  which  had  a  long  his- 
tory of  intervening  in  the  political  process;  and  strengthening 
weak  democratic  practices  and  institutions.  Turkey  displays  the 
trappings  of  a  Western-style  democratic  government:  a  legisla- 
ture whose  deputies  are  elected  by  secret  ballot,  multiple  and 
competitive  political  parties,  and  relatively  free  news  media. 
However,  Turkey  also  is  a  country  where,  on  three  occasions 
since  1960,  military  coups  have  overthrown  elected  civilian  gov- 
ernments. The  most  recent  military  government,  which  seized 
power  in  September  1980,  governed  for  three  years.  During 
the  period  of  military  rule,  strict  limits  were  imposed  on  per- 
sonal and  political  rights  and  liberties.  Political  parties  were 
banned,  and  prominent  civilian  politicians  were  barred  from 
participating  in  political  activity  for  up  to  ten  years.  The  mili- 
tary justified  its  intervention  on  the  premise  that  it  was  return- 
ing the  country  to  the  principles  of  Kemal  Atatiirk  (see  Ataturk 
and  the  Turkish  Nation,  ch.  1). 

The  supervised  restoration  of  civilian  rule  began  in  Novem- 
ber 1983  with  National  Assembly  elections  for  which  every  can- 
didate needed  to  obtain  military  approval.  A  civilian 
government  with  Turgut  Ozal  as  prime  minister  was  formed 
after  Ozal's  Motherland  Party  (Anavatan  Partisi — ANAP)  won  a 
majority  of  the  seats  in  the  new  assembly.  Ozal  worked  with  the 
president,  General  Kenan  Evren,  a  leader  of  the  1980  coup,  to 
reestablish  the  primacy  of  civilian  authority.  By  November 
1987,  martial  law  decrees  had  been  repealed  in  most  of  Turkey 
except  Istanbul  and  the  predominantly  Kurdish  provinces  of 
the  southeast,  and  the  military  refrained  from  interfering  in 
the  selection  of  candidates  for  National  Assembly  and  local 
elections. 

The  strengthening  of  democratic  practices,  however,  was 
hindered  by  a  lack  of  consensus  within  the  political  elite  on  the 
issue  of  granting  cultural  freedom  and  local  government 
autonomy  to  the  country's  Kurdish  minority.  The  Kurdish  ques- 


233 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


tion  began  to  reemerge  in  1984  after  the  Kurdistan  Workers' 
Party  (Partiya  Karkere  Kurdistan — PKK)  initiated  armed  strug- 
gle against  the  state  by  attacking  rural  police  posts  in  southeast- 
ern Turkey.  The  military's  inability  to  suppress  the  militant 
PKK,  combined  with  the  international  media  attention  gener- 
ated in  1988  by  the  arrival  of  tens  of  thousands  of  Iraqi  Kurdish 
refugees  fleeing  chemical  weapons  attacks  by  their  own  govern- 
ment, made  the  Kurdish  situation  a  leading  topic  of  public  dis- 
course. Ozal,  whom  the  National  Assembly  elected  president  in 
1989,  became  the  first  prominent  politician  to  acknowledge 
openly  that  the  Kurds  were  not  merely  "mountain  Turks"  but  a 
separate  ethnic  group  whose  culture  merited  respect.  Kurdish 
politicians  opposed  to  the  violent  tactics  and  separatist  ideol- 
ogy of  the  PKK  responded  by  participating  actively  in  the  Social 
Democratic  Party  (Sosyal  Demokrat  Parti — Sodep)  and  the 
Social  Democratic  Populist  Party  (Sosyal  Demokrat  Halkci 
Parti — SHP).  Following  the  October  1991  National  Assembly 
elections,  a  group  of  SHP-aligned  Kurdish  deputies,  who  previ- 
ously had  formed  the  People's  Labor  Party  (Halkin  Emek  Par- 
tisi — HEP)  to  promote  the  full  equality  of  Kurds  and  Turks 
within  Turkey,  organized  themselves  as  a  separate  parliamen- 
tary party.  However,  many  Turkish  leaders  were  unable  to  dis- 
tinguish between  a  separate  Kurdish  political  party  and  a 
Kurdish  separatist  movement,  and  they  campaigned  to  have 
the  HEP  banned  and  its  members  arrested,  even  though  HEP 
deputies  enjoyed  parliamentary  immunity.  In  a  severe  blow  to 
democratic  procedures,  seven  Kurdish  deputies  were  arrested 
in  March  1994;  they  were  sentenced  to  long  prison  terms  in 
December  after  being  convicted  of  "crimes  against  the  state." 

During  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s,  the  intensification  of 
the  PKK  insurgency  in  southeastern  Turkey  tended  to  enhance 
the  status  of  the  military  as  the  guardian  of  the  country's  terri- 
torial integrity  and  security.  Consequently,  Turkish  politicians 
tended  to  treat  the  armed  forces  cautiously,  apparently  as  part 
of  a  strategy  to  dissuade  senior  officers  from  initiating  yet 
another  coup.  Civilian  wariness  was  evident  in  the  govern- 
ment's acquiescence  to  a  number  of  extrajudicial  measures 
that  violated  basic  due  process  rights,  for  example,  military 
censorship  of  news  coverage  of  operations  against  the  Kurdish 
guerrillas.  In  1993  and  1994,  scores  of  Turkish  journalists 
whose  reportage  was  perceived  by  the  military  as  endangering 
state  security  were  detained  for  trials  in  special  military  courts. 
The  military  also  forcibly  deported  more  than  150,000  Kurds 


234 


Government  and  Politics 


from  some  850  villages  in  the  southeast.  Most  of  the  evicted  vil- 
lagers subsequently  resettled  in  the  cities  of  western  Turkey, 
where  as  many  as  one-half  of  the  country's  Kurdish  minority 
was  estimated  to  be  residing  in  1994.  The  presence  of  so  many 
Kurds  in  Ankara,  Istanbul,  Izmir,  and  other  large  cities  has  con- 
tributed to  a  transformation  of  the  Kurdish  situation  from  a 
regional  problem  to  a  national  one,  whose  characteristics 
include  increasing  ethnic  polarization  between  Kurds  and 
Turks. 

Another  cause  of  polarization  is  the  ideological  competi- 
tion between  Turkey's  elite,  which  is  imbued  with  the  secular 
philosophy  of  Ataturk,  and  a  new  generation  of  grassroots  lead- 
ers, influenced  by  Islamic  ideas.  Islamic  political  activists  began 
organizing  in  1983,  after  the  government  authorized  the  for- 
mation of  political  parties,  and  subsequently  founded  the  Wel- 
fare Party  (Refah  Partisi — RP;  also  seen  as  Prosperity  Party).  Its 
candidates  competed  in  both  national  and  local  elections,  cam- 
paigning in  middle-  and  lower-class  urban  neighborhoods  with 
a  consistent  message.  They  blamed  the  country's  economic  and 
political  problems  on  the  alleged  indifference  of  secular  lead- 
ers to  Muslim  values.  The  Welfare  Party  steadily  increased  its 
share  of  the  popular  vote,  and  won  more  than  sixty  seats  out  of 
a  total  of  450  in  the  1991  National  Assembly  elections.  In 
nationwide  local  elections  held  in  March  1994,  Welfare  Party 
candidates  won  19  percent  of  the  total  vote,  placing  the  party 
third  behind  the  ruling  True  Path  Party  (Dogru  Yol  Partisi — 
DYP)  of  President  Svileyman  Demirel  and  Prime  Minister 
Tansu  (filler  and  the  main  opposition  Motherland  Party.  The 
Welfare  Party's  electoral  successes  included  winning  the 
mayor's  office  in  Ankara,  Istanbul,  and  twenty-seven  other 
major  cities,  as  well  as  in  400  smaller  municipalities,  including 
almost  all  the  towns  in  the  Kurdish  provinces  of  the  southeast. 

In  early  1995,  Turkey  was  still  in  the  process  of  trying  to 
redefine  its  regional  foreign  policy  in  the  wake  of  the  two 
major  international  developments  on  its  borders  during  1991: 
the  Persian  Gulf  War  fought  by  the  United  States-led  interna- 
tional coalition  against  Iraq  and  the  unexpected  collapse  of  the 
Soviet  Union.  Turkey's  de  facto  participation  in  the  Persian 
Gulf  War — Ankara  permitted  United  States  aircraft  to  use  a 
Turkish  air  base  for  bombing  missions  over  Iraq — helped  to 
strengthen  ties  with  the  United  States,  a  fellow  member  of  the 
North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO — see  Glossary). 
However,  the  aftermath  of  that  same  war — hundreds  of  thou- 


235 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

sands  of  Iraqi  Kurds  trying  to  flee  into  Turkey  following  the 
collapse  of  their  uprising  against  the  Iraqi  government — was 
one  of  the  factors  that  contributed  to  the  intensification  of  the 
Kurdish  problem  within  Turkey.  The  military  efforts  to  sup- 
press the  PKK  and  the  political  efforts  to  silence  Kurdish  politi- 
cal leaders  prompted  international  human  rights  organizations 
to  accuse  the  Turkish  government  of  systematic  human  rights 
violations.  These  charges  complicated  relations  with  the  Euro- 
pean Union  (EU — see  Glossary),  an  economic  organization 
that  Turkey  aspired  to  join  as  a  full  member,  because  several 
EU  countries  opposed  Turkish  membership  on  grounds  that 
the  country's  practice  of  democracy  fell  short  of  EU  standards. 
In  addition,  Turkey  and  its  neighbor  Greece,  an  EU  state  and  a 
member  of  NATO,  had  failed  to  resolve  their  dispute  over  the 
status  of  Cyprus  and  their  conflicting  offshore  claims  in  the 
Aegean  Sea. 

The  consequences  of  the  Soviet  Union's  dissolution  poten- 
tially are  more  promising  for  Turkish  diplomacy  than  the  con- 
sequences of  the  Persian  Gulf  War.  The  fifteen  countries  that 
replaced  the  Soviet  Union  include  five  Asian  states  whose  peo- 
ples speak  Turkic  languages.  Ozal  and  his  successor  as  presi- 
dent, Demirel,  promoted  Turkey  as  a  political  and  economic 
model  for  these  Turkic-speaking  countries.  In  keeping  with  this 
role,  they  sought  to  expand  Turkey's  influence  through  numer- 
ous bilateral  agreements  pertaining  to  cultural  and  economic 
relations.  However,  the  long-term  success  of  Turkey's  efforts  is 
not  assured  because  both  Iran  and  Russia  are  trying  to  extend 
or  maintain  their  respective  influence  in  Azerbaijan  and  Cen- 
tral Asia.  Initially,  Turkish  leaders  seemed  to  welcome  the  pros- 
pect of  competition  with  Iran  for  influence  in  the  region,  and 
they  confidently  asserted  the  superiority  of  their  secular  state 
over  Iran's  Islamic  model.  By  the  end  of  1993,  however,  Tur- 
key— perhaps  out  of  concern  about  Russian  intentions — began 
to  stress  the  need  to  work  with  Iran  through  multilateral 
regional  arrangements  such  as  the  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization. 

The  Constitutional  System 

The  government  of  Turkey  functions  in  accordance  with 
the  constitution  of  1982,  which  was  drafted  and  adopted  dur- 
ing the  period  of  military  rule  following  the  September  1980 
coup.  The  National  Security  Council  (NSC — see  Glossary), 
composed  of  the  commanders  of  the  army,  navy,  air  force,  and 


236 


Government  and  Politics 


gendarmerie,  and  headed  by  the  president,  established  a  Con- 
sultative Assembly  in  June  1981  to  draft  a  new  constitution. 
This  assembly  consisted  of  160  members,  forty  of  whom  were 
appointed  directly  by  the  NSC  and  the  remaining  120  selected 
from  a  list  of  about  10,000  names  compiled  with  the  aid  of  pro- 
vincial governors.  In  July  1982,  a  fifteen-member  constitutional 
committee  of  the  Consultative  Assembly  produced  a  draft  that 
subsequently  was  amended  by  the  Consultative  Assembly  and 
the  NSC.  The  constitution  was  submitted  to  a  public  referen- 
dum on  November  7  and  approved  by  91.4  percent  of  the  vot- 
ers; 91.3  percent  of  the  registered  electorate  cast  ballots.  A 
factor  in  this  high  turnout  was  Provisional  Article  16  of  the  con- 
stitution, which  stipulated  that  registered  voters  who  failed  to 
vote  would  lose  their  electoral  rights  for  five  years. 

The  1982  constitution  replaced  the  constitution  of  1961, 
which  also  had  been  drafted  following  a  military  coup  (see  The 
Armed  Forces  Group  and  Interim  Rule,  1960-61,  ch.  1).  Under 
the  1961  constitution,  an  elaborate  system  of  checks  and  bal- 
ances had  limited  the  authority  of  the  government;  the  powers 
of  the  president  were  curtailed,  and  individual  rights  and  liber- 
ties were  given  greater  emphasis.  In  contrast,  the  1982  constitu- 
tion expands  the  authority  of  the  president  and  circumscribes 
the  exercise  of  individual  and  associational  rights.  The  1982 
constitution  also  limits  the  role  and  influence  of  political  par- 
ties, which  are  governed  by  more  detailed  and  restrictive  regu- 
lations than  under  the  1961  document.  For  example,  political 
parties  are  required  to  obtain  a  minimum  percentage  of  the 
total  vote  cast  before  any  candidates  on  their  lists  can  qualify 
for  seats  in  the  National  Assembly.  The  1982  constitution  also 
provides  for  the  enactment  of  electoral  laws  to  regulate  the  for- 
mation of  parties  and  the  rules  for  their  participation  in  elec- 
tions. 

Provisions  of  the  1982  Constitution 

Article  2  of  the  1982  constitution  stipulates  that  the  Repub- 
lic of  Turkey  is  a  "democratic,  secular,  and  social  state  governed 
by  the  rule  of  law,"  respecting  human  rights  and  loyal  to  the 
political  philosophy  of  Kemal  Atatiirk.  Article  5  vests  sover- 
eignty in  the  nation,  stipulating  that  it  is  not  to  be  delegated  to 
"any  individual,  group,  or  class."  The  fundamental  objective 
and  duty  of  the  state  is  defined  as  safeguarding  the  indepen- 
dence and  integrity  of  the  democratic  Turkish  nation  and 
ensuring  "the  welfare,  peace,  and  happiness  of  the  individual 


237 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

and  society."  The  constitution  divides  the  powers  of  the  state 
among  the  three  branches  of  government.  The  legislative 
branch  consists  of  a  unicameral  parliament,  the  National 
Assembly,  composed  of  400  members  (later  increased  by 
amendment  to  450)  elected  to  five-year  terms.  The  executive 
branch  consists  of  the  president,  who  is  elected  to  a  seven-year 
term  by  the  National  Assembly,  and  a  prime  minister,  who  is 
appointed  by  the  president  from  among  National  Assembly 
deputies.  The  prime  minister  heads  the  Council  of  Ministers, 
members  of  which  are  nominated  by  the  prime  minister  and 
appointed  by  the  president.  The  judicial  branch  is  indepen- 
dent of  the  legislature  and  the  executive. 

Like  its  predecessor,  the  1982  constitution  includes  a 
detailed  bill  of  rights  covering  the  social,  economic,  and  politi- 
cal rights  and  liberties  of  citizens.  According  to  Article  5,  all 
individuals  are  equal  before  the  law  and  possess  "inherent  fun- 
damental rights  and  freedoms  which  are  inviolable  and  inalien- 
able." However,  articles  10  through  15  authorize  the 
government  to  restrict  individual  rights  in  the  interest  of  safe- 
guarding the  "integrity  of  the  state"  and  "the  public  interest." 
The  government  may  impose  further  limitations  on  individual 
rights  "in  times  of  war,  martial  law,  or  state  of  emergency." 

Articles  28  and  67  of  the  1982  constitution  stipulate  that  the 
individual  is  entitled  to  privacy  and  to  freedom  of  thought  and 
communication,  travel,  and  association;  that  the  physical  integ- 
rity of  the  individual  must  not  be  violated;  that  torture  and 
forced  labor  are  prohibited;  that  all  persons  have  access  to  the 
courts  and  are  assumed  innocent  until  proven  guilty;  that  all 
Turkish  citizens  over  twenty  years  of  age  have  the  right  to  vote 
in  elections  and  to  take  part  in  referenda;  and  that  the  news 
media  are  free  and  not  liable  to  censorship,  except  by  a  court 
order  when  national  security  or  the  "indivisible  integrity  of  the 
state"  are  threatened.  According  to  articles  35,  44,  and  46,  all 
citizens  have  the  right  to  own  and  inherit  property.  The  state  is 
obligated  to  provide  land  to  landless  farmers  or  to  farmers  with 
insufficient  land,  and,  if  the  public  interest  so  requires,  the 
state  may  expropriate  private  property,  provided  that  compen- 
sation is  paid  in  advance. 

Articles  49  through  54  of  the  1982  constitution  pertain  to 
labor.  The  constitution  stipulates  that  it  is  the  right  and  duty  of 
all  people  of  working  age  to  work  and  that  all  have  the  freedom 
to  work  in  the  field  of  their  choice.  The  state  is  given  responsi- 
bility to  take  necessary  measures  to  raise  the  standard  of  living 


238 


Government  and  Politics 


of  workers,  to  protect  them,  and  to  create  suitable  economic 
conditions  for  the  prevention  of  unemployment.  Workers  have 
the  right  to  rest  and  leisure;  minors,  women,  and  people  with 
disabilities  are  to  be  provided  special  protection  at  work.  Work- 
ers and  employers  are  free  to  form  labor  unions  and  employ- 
ers' associations  without  prior  permission,  but  no  one  may  be 
compelled  to  join  a  union  or  association.  Workers  are  allowed 
to  bargain  collectively  and  to  strike,  but  not  in  a  manner  "detri- 
mental to  society."  General  and  politically  motivated  strikes  are 
prohibited. 

According  to  Article  42,  primary  education  is  compulsory 
and  free  in  public  schools.  Only  Turkish  may  be  taught  as  the 
primary  language,  and  all  schools  must  follow  the  principles 
and  reforms  of  Atatiirk.  Education  is  to  be  based  on  "contem- 
porary science  and  education  methods"  and  is  provided  under 
the  supervision  and  control  of  the  state.  The  state  provides 
scholarships  and  other  means  of  assistance  "to  enable  students 
of  merit  lacking  financial  means  to  continue  their  education." 

Article  24  guarantees  freedom  of  religion,  provided  that  the 
exercise  of  this  right  does  not  threaten  the  "indivisible  integrity 
of  the  state."  No  one  may  be  compelled  to  worship  or  to  partic- 
ipate in  religious  ceremonies  or  rites.  Primary  and  secondary 
schools  are  required  to  provide  religious  instruction  under 
state  supervision  and  control.  Secularism,  a  primary  principle 
of  Ataturk's  reforms,  is  reaffirmed  in  the  provision  forbidding 
"even  partially  basing  the  fundamental,  social,  economic,  polit- 
ical, and  legal  order  of  the  state  on  religious  tenets." 

Articles  68  and  69  of  the  1982  constitution  stipulate  that  cit- 
izens may  form  or  join  political  parties  without  prior  permis- 
sion from  the  government.  However,  political  parties  must  act 
according  to  the  principles  of  the  constitution  and  may  be  dis- 
solved by  the  Constitutional  Court  if  that  body  determines  that 
their  activities  "conflict  with  the  indivisible  integrity  of  the 
state."  Political  parties  may  not  have  ties  with  any  association, 
union,  or  professional  organization.  Judges,  teachers  at  institu- 
tions of  higher  education,  students,  civil  servants,  and  mem- 
bers of  the  armed  forces  may  not  join  political  parties. 

Other  articles  of  the  constitution  obligate  citizens  to  pay 
taxes  and  to  render  national  service  in  the  armed  forces  or 
elsewhere  in  the  public  sector,  grant  them  the  right  to  petition 
competent  authorities  and  the  National  Assembly  for  redress  of 
complaints,  and  stipulate  that  the  constitutionality  of  all  laws 
and  decrees  is  subject  to  review  by  the  Constitutional  Court.  To 


239 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

amend  the  constitution,  at  least  one-third  of  the  members  of 
the  National  Assembly  first  must  propose  an  amendment.  The 
actual  proposal  then  must  win  the  votes  of  a  two-thirds  majority 
of  all  members  of  the  assembly.  If  the  amendment  is  vetoed  by 
the  president,  the  votes  of  a  three-quarters  majority  of  the 
members  are  required  to  override  the  veto. 

The  1982  constitution  also  included  a  set  of  provisional  arti- 
cles, the  first  of  which  stipulated  that  the  chair  of  the  NSC  and 
head  of  state  would  become  president  of  the  republic  for  seven 
years  following  approval  of  the  constitution  in  a  referendum. 
Another  provisional  article  stipulated  that  the  NSC  would  be 
transformed  into  an  advisory  Presidential  Council  after  the  for- 
mation of  a  civilian  government  following  elections  for  the 
National  Assembly.  This  Presidential  Council  would  function 
for  a  period  of  six  years  and  then  be  dissolved.  Yet  another  pro- 
visional article  made  permanent  a  1981  NSC  decree  that 
barred  more  than  200  politicians  from  joining  new  political 
parties  or  becoming  candidates  for  a  period  of  ten  years.  Some 
of  the  provisional  articles  were  later  rescinded. 

Once  the  1982  constitution  had  been  approved  but  before  it 
was  implemented,  the  NSC  in  April  1983  issued  a  Political  Par- 
ties Law  (Law  No.  2820)  that  placed  further  restrictions  on 
political  activities.  This  law,  which  was  intended  to  regulate  the 
formation  of  political  parties  in  advance  of  the  November  1983 
National  Assembly  elections,  stipulates  that  political  organiza- 
tions cannot  be  based  on  class,  religion,  race,  or  language  dis- 
tinctions. To  qualify  for  registration,  a  political  party  is 
required  to  have  at  least  thirty  founders,  each  of  whom  must  be 
approved  by  the  minister  of  interior.  New  political  parties  are 
prohibited  from  claiming  to  be  continuations  of  any  parties  in 
existence  before  1980.  The  law  also  requires  each  party  to 
establish  organizations  in  at  least  half  the  country's  provinces 
and  in  one-third  of  the  districts  within  those  provinces.  Politi- 
cal parties  are  prohibited  from  criticizing  the  military  interven- 
tion of  September  1980  or  the  actions  or  decisions  of  the  NSC. 
The  Political  Parties  Law  empowers  the  NSC  and  its  successor, 
the  Presidential  Council,  to  investigate  all  party  members  and 
candidates  for  office  and  to  declare  any  unsuitable. 

Electoral  System 

The  1982  constitution  stipulates  that  elections  are  to  be 
held  on  the  basis  of  free  universal  suffrage  with  direct,  equal, 
and  secret  balloting.  Ballots  are  to  be  sorted  and  counted  pub- 


240 


Government  and  Politics 


licly  under  the  supervision  of  judicial  authorities.  The 
Supreme  Electoral  Council,  composed  of  eleven  judges  elected 
by  the  Court  of  Appeals  (also  known  as  the  Court  of  Cassation) 
and  the  Council  of  State  from  among  their  own  members,  has 
jurisdiction  over  all  electoral  proceedings.  The  Supreme  Elec- 
toral Council  is  empowered  to  rule  in  cases  of  complaints  con- 
cerning the  validity  of  elections  and  may  declare  a  particular 
election  invalid.  The  executive  and  legislative  branches  of  the 
government  are  prohibited  from  exercising  any  control  over 
the  electoral  process. 

Prior  to  the  first  elections  under  the  new  constitution,  the 
NSC  issued  the  Electoral  Law  of  June  1983  (Law  No.  2839), 
which  stipulates  that  only  parties  obtaining  10  percent  or  more 
of  the  total  national  vote  can  be  represented  in  the  National 
Assembly.  Law  No.  2839  maintains  the  system  of  proportional 
representation  on  a  provincial  basis,  but  subdivides  the  more 
populous  provinces  for  electoral  purposes  so  that  no  single 
constituency  can  elect  more  than  seven  deputies.  Each  prov- 
ince automatically  is  assigned  at  least  one  seat,  regardless  of 
population.  These  measures  work  to  the  advantage  of  the 
larger  parties  and  the  rural  provinces. 

Government 

Following  the  military  coup  of  September  1980,  Turkey  was 
ruled  by  the  NSC,  a  five-member  collective  body  representing 
all  branches  of  the  armed  forces.  The  NSC  scheduled  the  first 
elections  under  the  1982  constitution  for  November  1983.  The 
new  National  Assembly  convened  soon  after  the  elections,  and 
subsequently  a  civilian  government  consisting  of  a  prime  minis- 
ter and  a  Council  of  Ministers  was  formed.  In  late  1983  and 
early  1984,  the  NSC  turned  over  its  executive  and  legislative 
functions  to  these  new  institutions. 

National  Assembly 

The  1982  constitution  vests  the  power  to  enact  legislation  in 
the  unicameral  National  Assembly  (Millet  Meclis).  The  first 
National  Assembly,  consisting  of  400  deputies,  was  elected  in 
November  1983  to  a  five-year  term.  The  new  Motherland  Party 
headed  by  Turgut  Ozal  won  a  majority  of  seats  (211)  and 
formed  Turkey's  first  civilian  government  since  the  1980  coup. 
In  1987  Ozal  convinced  the  National  Assembly  to  adjourn  itself 
one  year  short  of  its  five-year  mandate  and  hold  new  elections, 


241 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

a  procedure  that  is  permitted  under  the  constitution.  Prior  to 
these  elections,  the  assembly  approved  two  constitutional 
amendments  that  affected  its  future  structure  and  composi- 
tion. One  amendment  expanded  the  assembly  from  400  to  450 
seats.  A  second  amendment  repealed  the  provisional  article  of 
the  constitution  that  had  banned  more  than  200  political  lead- 
ers from  all  political  activity  for  a  ten-year  period  ending  in 
1991.  This  article  had  permitted  the  military  to  retain  a  degree 
of  control  over  the  electoral  process,  both  at  the  national  and 
local  levels.  Its  repeal  enabled  Turkey's  best-known  politicians, 
including  Suleyman  Demirel  and  Biilent  Ecevit,  to  participate 
openly  in  the  electoral  process.  Consequently  the  National 
Assembly  elections  held  in  November  1987  constituted  the  first 
genuinely  free  balloting  in  the  country  since  the  1980  coup. 

Ozal's  party  won  a  majority  (292  of  450  seats)  in  the  1987 
assembly  elections,  and  he  continued  to  head  the  government 
until  1989,  when  he  was  elected  president.  In  1991  the 
National  Assembly  again  voted  to  schedule  elections  one  year 
early.  However,  as  a  result  of  the  October  balloting,  the  Mother- 
land Party  won  only  24  percent  of  the  vote,  coming  in  second 
behind  Demirel's  True  Path  Party,  which  obtained  27  percent 
of  the  vote.  Because  none  of  the  political  parties  had  won  a 
clear  majority,  Demirel  obtained  the  agreement  of  the  Social 
Democratic  Populist  Party  to  form  a  coalition  government.  The 
next  National  Assembly  elections  are  due  to  be  held  in  October 
1996. 

Although  the  constitution  stipulates  that  by-elections  to  fill 
vacant  seats  may  be  held  once  between  general  elections — 
unless  the  number  of  vacancies  reaches  5  percent  of  the  total 
assembly  membership — the  National  Assembly  has  not  sched- 
uled such  elections  on  a  regular  basis.  The  assembly  holds  a 
convocation  following  elections,  but  does  not  open  its  annual 
legislative  term  until  the  first  day  of  September.  By  law,  it  can- 
not be  in  recess  for  more  than  three  months  in  a  year.  Article 
93  of  the  constitution  empowers  the  president  during  an 
assembly  adjournment  to  summon  the  deputies  for  an  extraor- 
dinary session,  either  on  his  or  her  own  initiative  or  at  the  writ- 
ten request  of  one-fifth  of  the  members. 

The  National  Assembly's  powers  include  exclusive  authority 
to  enact,  amend,  and  repeal  laws.  It  also  can  pass  legislation 
over  the  veto  of  the  president.  The  assembly  supervises  the 
Council  of  Ministers  and  authorizes  it  to  issue  government 
decrees.  The  assembly  is  responsible  for  debating  and  approv- 


242 


Government  and  Politics 


ing  the  government's  budget  and  making  decisions  pertaining 
to  the  printing  of  currency.  In  addition,  the  assembly  approves 
the  president's  ratification  of  international  treaties  and  has 
authority  to  declare  war.  The  constitution  stipulates  that  the 
assembly  can  request  that  the  executive  respond  to  written 
questions,  investigations,  and  interpellations,  and  can  vote  the 
Council  of  Ministers  out  of  office. 

According  to  Article  76  of  the  constitution,  every  Turkish 
citizen  over  the  age  of  thirty  is  eligible  to  be  a  National  Assem- 
bly deputy,  provided  that  he  or  she  has  completed  primary  edu- 
cation and  has  not  been  convicted  of  a  serious  crime  or  been 
involved  in  "ideological  and  anarchistic  activities."  In  addition, 
men  are  required  to  have  performed  their  compulsory  military 
service.  Members  of  higher  judicial  and  education  institutions 
as  well  as  civil  servants  and  members  of  the  armed  forces  must 
resign  from  office  before  standing  for  election.  Article  80  of 
the  constitution  stipulates  that  deputies  represent  the  whole 
nation,  not  just  their  own  constituencies. 

Articles  83  and  84  of  the  constitution  grant  deputies  parlia- 
mentary immunities,  such  as  freedom  of  speech  and,  with 
some  qualifications,  freedom  from  arrest.  These  freedoms  were 
put  to  a  severe  test  in  March  1994,  when  the  National  Assembly 
voted  to  strip  the  parliamentary  immunities  of  seven  deputies 
who  had  spoken  out  within  the  assembly  on  behalf  of  civil 
rights  for  the  country's  Kurdish  minority.  The  seven  deputies 
were  arrested  at  the  door  of  the  National  Assembly  building  in 
Ankara  and  charged  with  making  speeches  that  constituted 
"crimes  against  the  state." 

Articles  83  and  84  also  provide  for  a  deputy  to  be  deprived 
of  membership  in  the  National  Assembly  by  vote  of  an  absolute 
majority  of  its  members.  Furthermore,  a  deputy  who  resigns 
from  his  or  her  political  party  after  an  election  may  not  be 
nominated  as  a  candidate  in  the  next  election  by  any  party  in 
existence  at  the  time  of  that  resignation. 

As  was  also  the  case  before  the  1980  coup,  deputies  in  the 
National  Assembly  in  early  1995  typically  were  fairly  young, 
well-educated  members  of  the  elite,  with  as  many  as  two-thirds 
having  college  degrees.  However,  since  1983  there  has  been  a 
shift  in  occupational  representation  away  from  a  predomi- 
nance of  government  officials.  In  the  three  assemblies  elected 
starting  in  1983,  a  large  percentage  of  deputies  were  lawyers, 
engineers,  businesspeople,  and  economists  (see  The  Changing 
National  Elite,  ch.  2). 


243 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

President,  Council  of  Ministers,  and  Prime  Minister 

The  1982  constitution  vests  executive  authority  in  the  presi- 
dent, who  is  the  designated  head  of  state.  The  president 
ensures  implementation  of  the  constitution  and  the  orderly 
functioning  of  the  government  (see  fig.  12).  The  president 
serves  a  seven-year  term  and  cannot  be  reelected.  Under  a  pro- 
visional article  of  the  constitution,  General  Evren,  who  was 
chair  of  the  NSC,  automatically  assumed  the  presidency  when 
the  constitution  took  effect  at  the  end  of  1982.  Article  102  of 
the  constitution  provides  the  procedures  for  electing  subse- 
quent presidents,  who  must  be  chosen  by  the  National  Assem- 
bly from  among  its  members.  A  deputy  nominated  for  the 
presidency  must  obtain  a  two-thirds  majority  vote  of  the  assem- 
bly. If  a  two-thirds  majority  cannot  be  obtained  on  the  first  two 
ballots,  a  third  ballot  is  held,  requiring  only  an  absolute  major- 
ity of  votes.  If  a  presidential  candidate  fails  to  obtain  a  majority 
on  the  third  ballot,  a  fourth  and  final  ballot  is  held,  the  choice 
being  between  the  two  candidates  who  received  the  greatest 
number  of  votes  on  the  third  ballot.  If  this  procedure  fails  to 
produce  a  winner,  new  assembly  general  elections  must  be  held 
immediately. 

When  Evren's  seven-year  term  ended  in  November  1989, 
the  assembly  failed  to  produce  a  two-thirds  vote  for  any  candi- 
date on  the  first  two  ballots.  Prime  Minister  Turgut  Ozal  won  a 
majority  on  the  third  ballot  and  became  Turkey's  second  presi- 
dent under  the  1982  constitution.  Ozal  died  of  a  heart  attack  in 
April  1993  before  completing  his  term  in  office.  In  the  subse- 
quent assembly  vote  for  a  new  president,  no  candidate  won  a 
two-thirds  majority  on  the  first  two  ballots.  Suleyman  Demirel, 
who  had  become  prime  minister  in  November  1991,  garnered 
the  simple  majority  required  for  the  third  ballot  and  became 
the  country's  third  president  since  the  1980  coup. 

A  candidate  for  president  must  have  completed  secondary 
education  and  must  be  at  least  forty  years  old.  Articles  101  and 
102  of  the  constitution  provide  that  a  presidential  candidate 
can  be  nominated  from  outside  the  membership  of  the 
National  Assembly  if  the  candidate  meets  the  stipulated  qualifi- 
cations and  if  the  nomination  is  presented  to  the  assembly  in 
the  form  of  a  written  resolution  that  has  the  endorsement  of  at 
least  one-fifth  of  the  deputies.  In  accordance  with  the  require- 
ment that  the  president-elect  terminate  relations  with  his  or 
her  political  party,  both  Ozal  and  Demirel  resigned  as  heads  of 


244 


Government  and  Politics 


their  respective  parties  following  their  election  to  the  presi- 
dency. 

The  1982  constitution  gives  the  president  a  stronger  and 
more  extensive  role  than  did  the  1961  constitution,  under 
which  the  presidency  was  a  largely  ceremonial  office.  The  pres- 
ident is  empowered  to  summon  meetings  of  the  National 
Assembly,  promulgate  laws,  and  ratify  international  treaties. 
The  president  also  may  veto  legislation  passed  by  the  National 
Assembly,  submit  constitutional  amendments  proposed  by  the 
assembly  to  popular  referenda,  and  challenge  the  constitution- 
ality of  assembly  laws  and  cabinet  decrees.  The  president's 
responsibilities  include  appointing  the  prime  minister,  conven- 
ing and  presiding  over  meetings  of  the  Council  of  Ministers, 
and  calling  for  new  elections  to  the  National  Assembly.  The 
president  also  is  authorized  to  dispatch  the  Turkish  armed 
forces  for  domestic  or  foreign  military  missions  and  to  declare 
martial  law 

The  constitution  also  provides  the  president  with  appointive 
powers  that  he  or  she  may  exercise  independently  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  Ministers.  For  example,  the  president  is  empowered  to 
appoint  the  members  of  the  Constitutional  Court,  one-quarter 
of  the  members  of  the  Council  of  State,  all  diplomatic  repre- 
sentatives, the  chief  of  the  General  Staff,  members  of  the 
Supreme  Military  Administrative  Court,  the  Supreme  Council 
of  Judges  and  Public  Prosecutors,  the  State  Supervisory  Coun- 
cil, the  Council  of  Higher  Education,  and  all  university  presi- 
dents. 

The  president  may  be  impeached  for  high  treason  at  the 
recommendation  of  one-third  of  the  members  of  the  National 
Assembly  and  removed  from  office  by  the  vote  of  a  three-quar- 
ters majority.  Otherwise,  Article  105  of  the  constitution  stipu- 
lates that  "no  appeal  shall  be  made  to  any  legal  authority, 
including  the  Constitutional  Court,  against  the  decisions  and 
orders  signed  by  the  president  of  the  Republic  on  his  own  ini- 
tiative." The  constitution  also  provides  for  the  establishment  of 
a  State  Supervisory  Council  to  conduct  investigations  and 
inspections  of  public  organizations  at  the  president's  request. 

The  president  presides  over  the  National  Security  Council,  a 
body  that  contains  civilian  as  well  as  military  members.  It 
should  not  be  confused  with  the  former  NSC,  an  all-military 
body,  which  ruled  the  country  following  thel980  coup  and  sub- 
sequently became  the  advisory  Presidential  Council.  The 
present  National  Security  Council  is  composed  of  the  prime 


245 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


MILITARY 
COURTS 

COURT 
HALS 

>■  5- 

rr  o. 

ILITAI 
OF  A 

?ITY 

S 

o  t 

STATE  SE 
COUR 

IVIL 
URTS 

8 

1 

SINGLE  JUDGE 
COURTS 

-J 

CRIMINA 

IRTS 

JUDGE 
RTS 

ENTRAL 
COL 

SINGLE 
COU 

u 

e  2 


<0 

g   D.  R 

LU    CO  < 


UJ  o 
z  < 

Bfs 
°§ 

o  £  d.  £ 

m  h  m  J 

<  <  =>  o 

JZih 


)0 

ON 


i 


246 


Government  and  Politics 


minister,  the  chief  of  the  General  Staff,  the  ministers  of 
national  defense,  interior,  and  foreign  affairs,  and  the  com- 
manders of  the  branches  of  the  armed  forces  and  the  gen- 
darmerie. This  body  sets  national  security  policy  and 
coordinates  all  activities  related  to  mobilization  and  defense. 
An  advisory  Presidential  Council,  composed  of  the  armed 
forces  commanders  who  had  joined  Evren  in  the  1980  military 
coup  and  the  military  government  that  lasted  until  1983,  con- 
tinued to  advise  the  president  until  1989.  At  that  time,  in  accor- 
dance with  the  provisional  articles  appended  to  the  1982 
constitution,  the  Presidential  Council  was  dissolved  (see  Politi- 
cal Developments  since  the  1980  Coup,  this  ch.). 

The  Council  of  Ministers,  or  cabinet,  is  headed  by  the  prime 
minister,  who  is  appointed  by  the  president  from  among  the 
elected  deputies  of  the  National  Assembly.  In  practice,  the 
president  asks  the  head  of  the  party  with  the  largest  number  of 
deputies  to  form  a  government.  The  prime  minister  then  nom- 
inates ministers  for  appointment  by  the  president.  Within  one 
week  of  being  selected,  each  new  cabinet  must  be  presented  to 
the  full  assembly  for  a  vote  of  confidence;  a  simple  majority  is 
required.  If  at  any  time  during  the  Council  of  Ministers'  tenure 
an  absolute  majority  of  the  assembly  should  support  a  motion 
of  no  confidence,  the  ministers  must  resign.  In  the  event  that 
no  party  obtains  a  majority  in  National  Assembly  elections,  a 
coalition  of  parties  is  allowed  up  to  six  weeks  to  form  a  govern- 
ment. If  no  new  cabinet  can  be  formed  within  forty-five  days, 
the  president  may  dissolve  the  assembly  and  call  for  new  elec- 
tions. 

The  prime  minister  supervises  the  implementation  of  gov- 
ernment policy.  Members  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  have  joint 
and  equal  responsibility  for  the  implementation  of  this  policy. 
In  addition,  each  minister  is  responsible  for  the  conduct  of 
affairs  under  his  or  her  jurisdiction  and  for  the  actions  of  sub- 
ordinates. In  early  1995,  the  prime  minister  was  Tansu  Ciller, 
the  first  woman  to  hold  this  office.  Her  cabinet  consists  of  a 
deputy  prime  minister  and  the  following  ministers:  agriculture 
and  rural  affairs,  communications  and  transport,  culture,  edu- 
cation, energy  and  natural  resources,  environment,  finance, 
foreign  affairs,  forestry,  health,  industry  and  trade,  interior,  jus- 
tice, labor,  national  defense,  public  works  and  housing,  and 
tourism,  (filler's  Council  of  Ministers  also  includes  a  number  of 
ministers  of  state  with  cabinet  rank. 


247 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

In  the  area  of  national  defense,  the  Council  of  Ministers  is 
responsible  to  the  assembly  for  national  security  and  for  the 
readiness  of  the  armed  forces.  However,  the  president  nor- 
mally serves  as  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces.  With 
the  president  as  chair,  the  cabinet  is  empowered  to  declare 
martial  law  or  a  state  of  emergency  and  to  issue  decrees  without 
restriction  during  such  periods. 

The  1982  constitution  strengthens  the  role  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  vis-a-vis  the  National  Assembly  by  empowering  the 
cabinet  to  issue  regulations  pertaining  to  the  implementation 
of  laws.  However,  the  cabinet  also  is  weakened  in  terms  of  its 
relationship  to  the  president.  The  constitution  grants  the  presi- 
dent the  right  to  dismiss  any  minister  upon  the  suggestion  of 
the  prime  minister.  In  effect,  individual  ministers  are  subject  to 
removal  at  the  discretion  of  either  the  president  or  the  prime 
minister. 

Judiciary 

Since  legal  reforms  instituted  in  1926,  Turkey's  judicial  sys- 
tem has  been  based  on  the  Swiss  Civil  Code,  the  Italian  Penal 
Code,  and  the  Neuchatel  (Swiss)  Code  of  Civil  Procedure.  The 
1982  constitution  guarantees  judicial  independence  and  pro- 
hibits any  government  agency  or  individual  from  interfering 
with  the  operations  of  the  courts  and  judges.  Members  of  the 
National  Assembly  also  are  not  allowed  to  discuss  or  make  state- 
ments concerning  pending  court  cases.  Although  trials  nor- 
mally are  held  in  open  court,  the  constitution  provides  that 
they  can  be  closed  "for  reasons  of  public  morality  or  public 
security." 

Headed  by  the  minister  of  justice,  the  High  Council  of 
Judges  and  Public  Prosecutors  is  the  principal  body  charged 
with  responsibility  for  ensuring  judicial  integrity.  This  council 
acts  on  matters  pertaining  to  the  careers  of  judges,  including 
appointments,  promotions,  transfers,  and  supervision.  The 
high  council  is  empowered  to  remove  judges  and  abolish 
courts  and  the  offices  of  judges  and  public  prosecutors.  How- 
ever, judges  themselves  are  protected  against  arbitrary  removal 
from  office  by  a  constitutional  provision  stipulating  that  they 
cannot  be  dismissed  without  due  cause  or  retired  involuntarily 
before  age  sixty-five. 

In  early  1995,  Turkey's  legal  system  consisted  of  three  types 
of  courts:  judicial,  military,  and  administrative.  Each  system 
includes  courts  of  first  instance  and  appellate  courts.  In  addi- 


248 


Government  and  Politics 


tion,  a  Court  of  Jurisdictional  Disputes  rules  on  cases  that  can- 
not be  classified  readily  as  falling  within  the  purview  of  one 
court  system. 

The  judicial  courts  form  the  largest  part  of  the  system;  they 
handle  most  civil  and  criminal  cases  involving  ordinary  citi- 
zens. The  two  supreme  courts  within  the  judicial  system  are  the 
Constitutional  Court  and  the  Court  of  Appeals. 

The  Constitutional  Court  reviews  the  constitutionality  of 
laws  and  decrees  at  the  request  of  the  president  or  of  one-fifth 
of  the  members  of  the  National  Assembly.  Its  decisions  on  the 
constitutionality  of  legislation  and  government  decrees  are 
final.  The  eleven  members  of  the  Constitutional  Court  are 
appointed  by  the  president  from  among  candidates  nominated 
by  lower  courts  and  the  High  Council  of  Judges  and  Public 
Prosecutors.  Challenges  to  the  constitutionality  of  a  law  must 
be  made  within  sixty  days  of  its  promulgation.  Decisions  of  the 
Constitutional  Court  require  the  votes  of  an  absolute  majority 
of  all  its  members,  with  the  exception  of  decisions  to  annul  a 
constitutional  amendment,  which  require  a  two-thirds  majority. 

The  Court  of  Appeals  (also  known  as  the  Court  of  Cassa- 
tion) is  the  court  of  last  instance  for  review  of  decisions  and 
verdicts  of  lower-level  judicial  courts,  both  civil  and  criminal. 
Its  members  are  elected  by  secret  ballot  by  senior  judges  and 
public  prosecutors.  Below  the  Court  of  Appeals  are  the  ordi- 
nary civil  and  criminal  courts.  At  the  lowest  level  of  the  judicial 
system  are  justices  of  the  peace,  who  have  jurisdiction  over 
minor  civil  complaints  and  offenses.  Single-judge  criminal 
courts  have  jurisdiction  over  misdemeanors  and  petty  crimes, 
with  penalties  ranging  from  small  fines  to  brief  prison  sen- 
tences. Every  organized  municipality  (a  community  having  a 
minimum  population  of  2,000)  has  at  least  one  single-judge 
court,  with  the  actual  number  of  courts  varying  according  to 
the  total  population.  Three-judge  courts  of  first  instance  have 
jurisdiction  over  major  civil  suits  and  serious  crimes.  Either  of 
the  parties  in  civil  cases  and  defendants  convicted  in  criminal 
cases  can  request  that  the  Court  of  Appeals  review  the  lower- 
court  decision.  The  Turkish  courts  have  no  jury  system;  judges 
render  decisions  after  establishing  the  facts  in  each  case  based 
on  evidence  presented  by  lawyers  and  prosecutors. 

The  administrative  court  system  consists  of  the  Council  of 
State,  an  appellate  court,  and  various  administrative  courts  of 
first  instance.  The  Council  of  State  reviews  decisions  of  the 
lower  administrative  courts,  considers  original  administrative 


249 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

disputes,  and,  if  requested,  gives  its  opinion  on  draft  legislation 
submitted  by  the  prime  minister  and  the  Council  of  Ministers. 
The  president  appoints  25  percent  of  the  Council  of  State's 
judges.  The  other  75  percent  are  appointed  by  the  High  Coun- 
cil of  Judges  and  Public  Prosecutors. 

The  military  court  system  exercises  jurisdiction  over  all  mili- 
tary personnel.  In  areas  under  martial  law,  the  military  also  has 
jurisdiction  over  all  civilians  accused  of  terrorism  or  "crimes 
against  the  state."  The  military  court  system  consists  of  military 
and  security  courts  of  first  instance,  a  Supreme  Military  Admin- 
istrative Court,  an  appellate  State  Security  Court,  and  the  Mili- 
tary Court  of  Appeals,  which  reviews  decisions  and  verdicts  of 
the  military  courts.  The  decisions  of  the  Military  Court  of 
Appeals  are  final. 

Provincial  and  Local  Government 

The  1982  constitution  retains  Turkey's  centralized  adminis- 
trative system.  Each  province  is  administered  by  a  governor 
{vagi)  appointed  by  the  Council  of  Ministers  with  the  approval 
of  the  president.  The  governors  function  as  the  principal 
agents  of  the  central  government  and  report  to  the  Ministry  of 
Interior.  The  constitution  grants  governors  extraordinary  pow- 
ers during  a  state  of  emergency,  powers  similar  to  those  of  mili- 
tary authorities  in  areas  under  martial  law.  The  constitution 
also  stipulates  that  the  central  administration  oversee  elected 
local  councils  in  order  to  ensure  the  effective  provision  of  local 
services  and  to  safeguard  the  public  interest.  The  minister  of 
interior  is  empowered  to  remove  from  office  local  administra- 
tors who  are  being  investigated  or  prosecuted  for  offenses 
related  to  their  duties. 

In  early  1995,  Turkey  was  divided  into  seventy-six  provinces 
(vilayetlar) .  Each  province  was  further  subdivided  into  an  aver- 
age of  about  eight  districts,  or  kazalar,  each  roughly  equivalent 
in  size  to  a  county  in  a  United  States  state.  Each  district  was  seg- 
mented into  an  average  of  493  subdistricts,  or  bucaklar.  Each 
provincial  capital,  each  district  seat,  and  each  town  of  more 
than  2,000  people  is  organized  as  a  municipality  headed  by  an 
elected  mayor.  Government  at  the  provincial  level  is  responsi- 
ble for  implementing  national  programs  for  health  and  social 
assistance,  public  works,  culture  and  education,  agriculture 
and  animal  husbandry,  and  economic  and  commercial  matters. 

As  chief  executive  of  the  province  and  principal  agent  of  the 
central  government,  each  governor  supervises  other  govern- 


250 


Government  and  Politics 


merit  officials  assigned  to  carry  out  ministerial  functions  in  his 
or  her  province.  Civil  servants  head  offices  of  the  national  gov- 
ernment that  deal  with  education,  finance,  health,  and  agricul- 
ture at  the  provincial  level.  In  each  province,  these  directors 
form  the  provincial  administrative  council  (vilayet genel  meclisi), 
which,  with  the  governor  as  chair,  makes  key  administrative 
decisions  and,  when  necessary,  initiates  disciplinary  actions 
against  errant  provincial  employees. 

The  governor  also  heads  the  provincial  assembly  and  several 
service  departments  concerned  mainly  with  local  trade  and 
industrial  matters.  The  provincial  assembly,  which  advises  and 
works  closely  with  the  provincial  administrative  council,  is 
elected  every  five  years  and,  with  the  governor  chairing,  meets 
annually  to  approve  the  provincial  budget  and  to  select  one 
person  from  each  district  to  serve  on  the  province's  administra- 
tive commission.  With  the  governor  presiding,  the  administra- 
tive commission  meets  weekly  for  mutual  consultation. 
Provincial  budgets  derive  their  income  from  rents,  payments 
for  services,  fines,  state  aid,  and  a  1  percent  share  of  national 
tax  revenues.  In  most  provinces,  provincial  funds  are  spent  pri- 
marily on  agricultural  and  reforestation  programs,  irrigation, 
and  schools. 

Each  district  in  a  province  has  its  own  administration  based 
in  the  district  seat.  The  district  administration  consists  of  a  dis- 
trict chief  (kaymakam) ,  central  government  representatives, 
and  a  district  administrative  board.  The  more  than  500  district 
chiefs  are  appointed  by  the  president  upon  nomination  by  the 
minister  of  interior.  Each  district  chief  is  responsible  to  the  gov- 
ernor, serving  essentially  as  his  or  her  agent  in  supervising  and 
inspecting  the  activities  of  government  officials  in  the  district. 
The  district  in  which  a  provincial  capital  is  located  may  not 
have  a  district  chief  but  instead  be  headed  directly  by  the  gover- 
nor. Each  subdistrict  director  (bucak  mudur)  is  appointed  by  the 
minister  of  interior  on  the  nomination  of  the  governors.  The 
subdistrict  directors,  who  number  about  40,000,  are  responsi- 
ble for  law  enforcement  in  the  villages.  They  are  assisted  by 
officials  in  charge  of  rural  security;  land  titles;  vital  statistics; 
schools;  and  postal,  telephone,  and  telegraph  services. 

Municipal  governments  exist  in  each  provincial  and  district 
capital,  as  well  as  in  all  communities  with  at  least  2,000  inhabit- 
ants. Municipal  governments  are  responsible  for  implementing 
national  programs  for  health  and  social  assistance,  public 
works,  education,  and  transportation.  Each  municipality 


251 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


(belediye)  is  headed  by  a  mayor  (belediye  reisi),  who  is  elected  by 
the  citizens  to  a  five-year  term  and  is  assisted  by  deputy  direc- 
tors of  departments  and  offices.  Municipal  councils,  also 
elected  for  five  years,  vary  in  size  according  to  each  town's  pop- 
ulation. Municipal  councils  meet  three  times  a  year  to  decide 
on  such  issues  as  the  budget,  housing  plans,  reconstruction 
programs,  tax  rates,  and  fees  for  municipal  services.  A  variety 
of  municipal  standing  committees,  appointed  by  the  mayor 
and  municipal  department  directors  or  selected  by  municipal 
council  members  from  among  themselves,  deal  with  financial 
issues  and  decide  on  the  appointment  and  promotion  of 
municipal  personnel. 

The  smallest  unit  of  local  government  in  Turkey  is  the  vil- 
lage (kdy  derneg),  a  locality  with  fewer  than  2,000  inhabitants. 
The  principal  authority  in  a  village,  the  headman  (muhtar),  is 
chosen  by  an  assembly  of  all  the  village's  adults.  This  informal 
assembly  also  makes  decisions  pertaining  to  village  affairs  and 
elects  a  council  of  elders  (ihtiyar  meclisi)  that  includes  the  vil- 
lage schoolteacher  and  the  imam  (see  Glossary).  The  headman 
supervises  the  planning  and  operation  of  communal  projects 
and  services  and  administers  directives  from  higher  authori- 
ties. The  headman  receives  government  officials,  maintains 
order,  collects  taxes,  and  presides  at  civil  ceremonies.  The  vil- 
lage council  supervises  village  finances,  purchases  or  expropri- 
ates land  for  schools  and  other  communal  buildings,  and 
decides  on  the  contributions  in  labor  and  money  to  be  made 
by  villagers  for  road  maintenance  and  other  community 
improvements.  The  village  council  also  arbitrates  disputes 
between  villagers  and  imposes  fines  on  those  who  fail  to  per- 
form the  services  allotted  to  them. 

Civil  Service 

Since  the  early  years  of  the  Turkish  republic,  the  civil 
bureaucracy  has  played  an  important  role  in  politics.  It  became 
one  of  the  bases  of  Ataturk's  power  and  was  a  key  instrument  of 
his  reform  policy,  which  emphasized  adherence  to  the  "Six 
Arrows"  of  secularism,  republicanism,  populism,  nationalism, 
etatism  (see  Glossary),  and  reformism  (see  Ataturk's  Reforms, 
ch.  1).  During  the  1930s  and  1940s,  a  consistently  high  percent- 
age of  parliament  members  had  a  civil  service  background. 
However,  the  power  and  social  prestige  of  the  official  elite 
declined  with  the  emergence  of  competitive  political  parties  in 
the  late  1940s  and  early  1950s.  Civil  bureaucrats  generally 


252 


Government  and  Politics 


believed  they  worked  in  the  service  of  the  entire  nation,  and 
they  tended  to  view  politicians,  especially  those  affiliated  with 
the  Democrat  Party  (Demokrat  Partisi — DP),  as  being  too  par- 
tisan to  comprehend  the  difference  between  policies  beneficial 
to  the  nation  and  those  merely  serving  special  interests.  Demo- 
crats and  their  Justice  Party  (Adalet  Partisi — AP)  successors  did 
not  appreciate  these  attitudes,  and  consequently  bureaucrats 
lost  credibility  and  influence  among  these  politicians,  who 
tried,  generally  with  little  success,  to  restrict  the  autonomy  of 
the  civil  service. 

The  military  regime  that  seized  power  in  1980  was  less  toler- 
ant of  an  independent  bureaucracy  than  its  predecessor  had 
been  in  1960.  Accordingly,  it  took  measures  designed  to  reduce 
the  bureaucracy's  autonomy  and  involvement  in  partisan  poli- 
tics. For  example,  civil  servants  lost  the  right  to  challenge  or 
appeal  decisions  made  by  members  of  the  Council  of  Ministers 
or  the  Council  of  State.  Martial  law  commanders  were  empow- 
ered to  remove  or  reassign  civil  servants  under  their  jurisdic- 
tion at  their  own  discretion.  In  April  1981,  a  Supreme  Board  of 
Supervision  was  established  to  oversee  the  bureaucracy.  Its 
investigations  resulted  in  a  large  number  of  officials  receiving 
administrative  or  penal  punishments  and  prompted  many 
senior  bureaucrats  to  leave  government  service.  The  tension 
between  the  military  government  and  the  civil  service  did  not 
cease  with  the  end  of  military  rule.  When  Turgut  Ozal  became 
prime  minister  at  the  end  of  1983,  he  proclaimed  that  stream- 
lining the  bureaucracy  was  part  of  the  fundamental  administra- 
tive reform  he  intended  to  implement.  Gradually,  however, 
cooperation  between  bureaucrats  and  political  leaders  was 
restored;  by  the  early  1990s,  it  was  no  longer  fashionable  to 
blame  civil  servants  for  the  country's  problems. 

In  early  1995,  the  civil  service  operated  in  accordance  with 
provisions  stipulated  in  the  1982  constitution  and  subsequent 
regulations.  For  example,  civil  servants  are  appointed  for  life 
on  the  basis  of  competitive  examinations  and  can  be  removed 
from  their  posts  only  in  exceptional  cases.  They  must  remain 
loyal  to  the  constitution  and  may  not  join  political  parties.  If  a 
public  employee  wishes  to  compete  in  National  Assembly  elec- 
tions, that  individual  first  must  resign  from  government  ser- 
vice. All  disciplinary  decisions  pertaining  to  civil  servants  are 
subject  to  judicial  review. 


253 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Political  Dynamics 

Since  the  military  coup  of  1960,  Turkish  politics  have  been 
characterized  by  two  opposing  visions  of  government.  Accord- 
ing to  the  "rule  from  above"  view,  which  has  been  dominant 
among  the  military  elite  and  some  of  the  civilian  political  elite, 
government  is  an  instrument  for  implementing  the  enduring 
principles  of  Kemalism.  Thus,  if  a  government  fails  to  carry  out 
this  mandate,  it  must  be  replaced  by  those  who  are  the  guard- 
ians of  Ataturk's  legacy,  which  is  identified  as  synonymous  with 
Turkish  nationalism.  In  contrast,  the  "rule  from  below"  view, 
which  predominates  among  more  populist-oriented  politicians 
and  thinkers,  tends  to  regard  government  as  an  instrument  for 
protecting  the  civic  rights  and  individual  freedoms  of  Turkish 
citizens.  Thus,  if  elected  leaders  fail  in  their  responsibilities, 
they  should  be  voted  out  of  office.  Supporters  of  the  first  view 
tend  to  interpret  democracy  as  a  political  order  in  which  all 
Turks  share  common  goals  and  national  unity  is  not  disrupted 
by  partisan  politics.  When  they  perceive  partisan  politics  as 
threatening  this  democratic  ideal,  they  back  military  interven- 
tion as  a  corrective  measure.  Those  favoring  rule  from  below 
tend  to  accept  diversity  of  opinion,  and  its  organized  expres- 
sion through  competitive  political  parties,  as  normal  in  a 
healthy  democracy.  These  two  very  different  conceptions  of 
government  have  contributed  significantly  to  Turkey's  political 
history  since  1960,  an  era  in  which  periods  of  parliamentary 
democracy  have  alternated  with  periods  of  military  authoritari- 
anism. 

The  legacy  of  military  intervention,  in  particular  a  general 
fear  among  politicians  that  it  may  recur,  has  adversely  affected 
democratic  practices  in  Turkey.  For  instance,  the  successor 
civilian  governments  have  lifted  only  gradually  the  harsh 
restrictions  imposed  on  political  rights  by  the  1980-83  regime. 
In  early  1995,  various  restrictions  on  the  formation  of  political 
parties  and  free  association  remained  in  effect;  civilians 
accused  of  "crimes  against  the  state"  continued  to  be 
remanded  to  military  courts  for  detention,  interrogation,  and 
trial. 

Political  Developments  since  the  1980  Coup 

Immediately  following  the  September  1980  coup,  the  mili- 
tary government  arrested  Turkey's  leading  politicians,  dis- 
solved the  bicameral  Grand  National  Assembly,  declared 


254 


Painting  of  Atatilrk,  the 
father  of  modern  Turkey 
Courtesy  Hermine  Drey  fuss 


martial  law,  and  banned  all  political  activity  (see  Military  Inter- 
lude, ch.  1).  In  October  1981,  all  political  parties  then  in  exist- 
ence were  disbanded  and  their  property  and  financial  assets 
confiscated  by  the  state.  In  April  1983,  the  NSC  issued  regula- 
tions for  the  formation  of  new  political  parties — which  could 
have  no  ties  to  the  disbanded  parties — in  anticipation  of  elec- 
tions for  a  new  single-chamber  National  Assembly  to  be  held 
later  that  year.  Subsequently,  the  ban  on  political  activity  was 
lifted,  except  for  723  politicians  active  before  the  coup  who 
were  forbidden  to  participate  in  politics.  About  500 — former 
deputies  and  senators  of  the  dissolved  Grand  National  Assem- 
bly— were  barred  until  1986.  The  remaining  group  of  more 
than  200  was  not  allowed  to  be  involved  in  politics  until  1991. 
In  addition  to  these  restrictions,  each  party  had  to  submit  its 
list  of  candidates  for  NSC  approval  in  order  to  compete  in  the 
assembly  elections.  Although  fifteen  parties  were  established  by 
August  1983,  the  NSC  disqualified  all  but  three  of  them  on  the 
grounds  that  they  had  ties  to  banned  political  leaders  such  as 
Suleyman  Demirel  and  Bulent  Ecevit.  For  a  variety  of  other 
political  reasons,  the  NSC  also  vetoed  several  proposed  candi- 
dates on  the  lists  presented  by  the  three  approved  parties. 

The  parties  allowed  to  participate  in  the  November  1983 
National  Assembly  elections  were  the  Nationalist  Democracy 
Party  (Milliyetci  Demokrasi  Partisi — MDP),  headed  by  retired 


255 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

general  Turgut  Sunalp,  an  ally  of  NSC  chair  and  president 
Kenan  Evren;  the  Motherland  Party,  led  by  Turgut  Ozal,  a  civil- 
ian who  had  served  in  the  military  government  from  1980  to 
1982  as  deputy  prime  minister  for  economic  affairs;  and  the 
Populist  Party  (Halkci  Partisi— HP),  led  by  Necdet  Calp.  The 
military  publicly  supported  Sunalp's  party  and  expected  it  to 
win  a  majority  of  seats  in  the  new  assembly.  However,  the  elec- 
tions proved  to  be  a  stunning  repudiation  of  the  military  gov- 
ernment: the  Nationalist  Democracy  Party  won  only  23.3 
percent  of  the  total  votes  cast  and  obtained  only  seventy-one  of 
the  assembly's  400  seats.  Ozal's  Motherland  Party  won  an  abso- 
lute majority  of  seats  (211  total);  subsequently,  Evren  asked 
Ozal  to  form  a  new  government,  which  took  office  in  Decem- 
ber 1983. 

The  restoration  of  civilian  government  did  not  mean  an 
immediate  restoration  of  civilian  rule.  Although  the  NSC  had 
dissolved  itself,  Evren,  as  president  of  the  republic,  was  in  a 
position  to  veto  any  policies  that  might  displease  the  military. 
In  addition,  most  of  Turkey  remained  under  martial  law,  which 
meant  that  military  officers  retained  ultimate  decision-making 
authority  at  the  local  level.  Although  Ozal  proceeded  cau- 
tiously to  reassert  civilian  authority,  he  recognized  that  easing 
various  military-imposed  restrictions  was  essential  to  improve 
Turkey's  international  image,  especially  in  Western  Europe. 

Following  the  1980  coup,  the  members  of  the  European 
Community,  which  Turkey  aspired  to  join,  had  frozen  relations 
with  Ankara.  The  pan-European  parliament,  the  Council  of 
Europe,  had  cited  the  military  regime's  record  of  human  rights 
violations  as  justification  for  banning  Turkish  participation  in 
1982  (see  Foreign  Relations,  this  ch.).  To  demonstrate  his  com- 
mitment to  democracy,  Ozal  allowed  three  political  parties 
whose  participation  in  the  1983  general  elections  had  been 
vetoed  by  the  military  to  contest  the  municipal  elections  his 
government  had  scheduled  for  March  1984.  All  three  parties 
seemed  to  be  obvious  continuations  of  dissolved  precoup  par- 
ties, and  they  did  not  try  very  hard  to  disguise  their  ties  to 
banned  politicians.  For  example,  the  True  Path  Party  had  been 
formed  by  former  members  of  the  Justice  Party,  and  its  de  facto 
leader  was  widely  acknowledged  to  be  Suleyman  Demirel.  Sup- 
porters of  the  old  Republican  People's  Party  (Cumhuriyet  Halk 
Partisi — CHP)  had  formed  the  Social  Democratic  Party  (Sosyal 
Demokrat  Parti — Sodep)  under  the  leadership  of  Erdal  Inonu, 
the  son  of  Ismet  Inonu,  a  former  president  and  close  political 


256 


Government  and  Politics 


ally  of  Ataturk.  The  Welfare  Party  (Refah  Partisi — RP)  was 
headed  by  Necmettin  Erbakan,  an  Islamic  activist  whose  politi- 
cal views  had  been  irksome  to  the  military  since  the  early 
1970s. 

The  local  elections  held  on  March  25,  1984,  constituted  a 
further  repudiation  of  the  military,  with  Sunalp's  Nationalist 
Democracy  Party  obtaining  less  than  10  percent  of  the  vote.  At 
the  level  of  local  politics,  Sodep  and  the  True  Path  Party 
emerged  as  the  second  and  third  strongest  parties  behind 
Ozal's  Motherland  Party,  which  won  40  percent  of  the  vote. 
The  Populist  Party,  which  had  the  second  largest  contingent  in 
the  National  Assembly,  did  poorly  in  the  municipal  elections, 
probably  because  most  of  its  potential  support  went  to  Sodep,  a 
party  with  which  it  shared  ideological  affinities,  as  well  as  com- 
mon origins  in  the  old  Republican  People's  Party.  Subse- 
quently, in  November  1985  a  majority  of  Populist  Party 
deputies  voted  to  dissolve  their  party  and  merge  with  Sodep  to 
form  a  single  party,  the  Social  Democratic  Populist  Party  (Sos- 
yal  Demokrat  Halkci  Parti — SHP) .  The  local  elections  and  the 
lifting  of  martial  law  in  several  Turkish  provinces  had  a  positive 
effect  on  some  European  governments,  and  in  May  1984,  the 
Council  of  Europe  voted  to  readmit  Turkey  as  an  associate 
member  of  the  European  Community. 

Following  the  1984  municipal  elections,  former  political 
leaders  challenged  restrictions  on  their  activities  by  appearing 
at  political  meetings  and  making  public  speeches.  Demirel  and 
Ecevit  were  the  most  prominent  of  the  leaders  who  openly 
defied  the  bans  on  political  activities.  The  Ozal  government 
was  under  pressure  from  the  military  to  enforce  the  bans  but 
under  equal  pressure  from  both  domestic  public  opinion  and 
international  human  rights  organizations  to  relax  the  restric- 
tions on  the  country's  former  leaders.  The  government 
responded  with  alternating  tolerance  and  legal  harassment. 
Inconsistency  also  characterized  the  government's  treatment  of 
other  democratization  issues.  For  example,  by  the  end  of  1987 
martial  law  had  been  lifted  in  most  of  Turkey's  provinces,  but 
the  number  of  civilians  being  tried  in  military  courts  actually 
had  increased.  In  addition,  the  government  was  embarrassed 
by  reports  published  by  Amnesty  International  and  similar 
organizations  charging  the  continuation  of  systematic  torture 
in  Turkish  prisons,  press  censorship,  and  the  denial  of  civil 
rights  for  the  Kurdish  minority.  Although  the  Ozal  government 


257 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


dismissed  these  reports,  they  tended  to  complicate  already  deli- 
cate relations  with  members  of  the  European  Community. 

In  1986  the  expiration  of  the  law  banning  political  activity 
by  some  500  minor  politicians  of  the  precoup  era  served  to 
highlight  the  anomalous  situation  of  a  self-proclaimed  democ- 
racy that  continued  to  deny  the  right  of  political  participation 
to  more  than  200  major  political  figures,  including  former 
prime  ministers  and  cabinet  members.  Ozal  persuaded  Presi- 
dent Evren  and  the  other  senior  military  officers  who  sup- 
ported the  ban  that  the  issue  should  be  put  to  a  referendum. 
The  vote  took  place  in  September  1987,  with  a  large  majority  of 
voters  approving  repeal.  Demirel  and  Ecevit  almost  immedi- 
ately assumed  leadership  of  the  parties  they  had  controlled 
from  behind  the  scenes,  respectively  the  True  Path  Party  and 
the  Democratic  Left  Party  (Demokratik  Sol  Partisi — DSP),  and 
began  campaigning  for  the  National  Assembly  elections  sched- 
uled for  November. 

The  1987  National  Assembly  elections  were  held  under  the 
most  democratic  conditions  since  the  1980  coup.  In  contrast  to 
its  actions  during  the  1983  election,  the  government  pro- 
scribed no  political  parties  or  individual  candidates  on  party 
lists.  From  the  perspective  of  the  individual  parties,  the  only 
drawback  was  the  requirement  that  each  must  win  at  least  10 
percent  of  the  national  vote  in  order  to  obtain  a  seat  in  the 
assembly.  Parties  competing  in  the  elections  included  the  Dem- 
ocratic Left  Party,  the  Motherland  Party,  the  Nationalist  Labor 
Party  (Milliyetci  (^alisma  Partisi — MQP),  the  SHP,  the  True 
Path  Party,  and  the  Welfare  Party  (see  Political  Parties,  this 
ch.).  However,  only  three  parties  exceeded  the  10  percent 
threshold  to  qualify  for  assembly  seats.  Ozal's  Motherland  Party 
upheld  its  dominance  in  parliament  by  winning  36  percent  of 
the  national  vote — slightly  less  than  the  40  percent  it  had  won 
in  1983 — and  more  than  60  percent  of  the  assembly  seats — 292 
out  of  a  total  of  450.  Inonu's  SHP,  a  1985  merger  of  Sodep  and 
the  Populist  Party  (the  latter  had  won  the  second  highest  num- 
ber of  seats  in  1983),  ranked  second  with  ninety-nine  seats. 
Demirel' s  True  Path  Party,  which  had  not  been  allowed  to  par- 
ticipate in  the  1983  elections,  ranked  third  with  fifty-nine  seats. 

The  four  years  following  the  1987  elections  witnessed  the 
political  comeback  of  Demirel,  who  had  been  prime  minister  at 
the  time  of  the  1980  military  coup.  Following  the  takeover  by 
the  armed  forces,  he  and  other  members  of  his  government 
had  been  arrested.  His  Justice  Party  and  all  other  parties  subse- 


258 


Government  and  Politics 


quently  were  forcibly  dissolved.  During  Demirel's  eleven-year 
exclusion  from  politics,  his  former  protege,  Ozal,  emerged  as 
the  country's  most  prominent  civilian  politician.  Because  Ozal 
had  been  a  rising  star  in  the  Justice  Party  prior  to  the  coup  and 
had  been  chosen  to  take  charge  of  the  government's  economic 
reform  program,  Demirel  resented  Ozal's  initial  cooperation 
with  the  military  and  his  later  establishment  of  the  Motherland 
Party,  which  competed  directly  with  the  True  Path  Party  for  the 
allegiance  of  former  Justice  Party  supporters.  Consequently, 
once  the  ban  on  his  political  activities  was  lifted,  Demirel  cam- 
paigned tirelessly  against  Ozal  and  the  Motherland  Party. 
Demirel's  persistent  criticism  of  Ozal's  policies  probably  was  an 
important  factor  in  the  major  electoral  setback  suffered  by  the 
Motherland  Party  in  the  March  1989  municipal  council  elec- 
tions. The  Motherland  Party's  share  of  the  popular  vote  fell  to 
22  percent — compared  with  26  percent  for  Demirel's  True 
Path  Party — and  it  lost  control  of  several  municipal  councils, 
including  those  in  the  country's  three  largest  cities:  Istanbul, 
Ankara,  and  Izmir.  Whatever  satisfaction  Demirel  may  have 
derived  from  his  party's  electoral  edge  over  the  Motherland 
Party,  the  True  Path  Party  nevertheless  did  not  receive  the  larg- 
est plurality  of  ballots.  That  distinction  went  to  the  SHP,  which 
obtained  28  percent  of  the  total  vote  (see  fig.  13). 

Encouraged  by  the  results  of  the  municipal  council  elec- 
tions, Demirel  devoted  the  next  two-and-one-half  years  to 
building  up  his  party  for  the  National  Assembly  elections.  His 
goal  was  for  the  True  Path  Party  to  win  a  majority  of  seats,  a  vic- 
tory that  would  enable  him  to  reclaim  the  post  of  prime  minis- 
ter from  which  he  had  been  ousted  so  unceremoniously  in 
1980.  Ozal  may  have  provided  unintentional  support  for 
Demirel's  efforts  when  he  decided  at  the  end  of  1989  to  be  a 
candidate  for  president  to  replace  General  Evren,  whose  seven- 
year  term  was  expiring.  Because  Ozal's  Motherland  Party  still 
controlled  a  majority  of  seats  in  the  assembly,  his  nomination 
was  approved,  albeit  on  the  third  ballot.  However,  in  accor- 
dance with  the  constitution,  Ozal  had  to  sever  his  political  ties 
to  the  Motherland  Party  upon  becoming  president.  Because  he 
had  been  so  closely  identified  with  the  party  and  because  none 
of  its  other  leaders,  including  Yildirim  Akbulut,  who  succeeded 
Ozal  as  prime  minister  in  November  1989,  had  achieved 
national  prominence,  Ozal's  departure  tended  to  weaken  the 
Motherland  Party  politically. 


259 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Province  boundary 

® 

National  capital 

DID 

Motherland  Party 

& 

Republican  People's  Party 

m 

True  Path  Party 

Nationalist  Action  Party 

□ 

Welfare  Party 

Social  Democratic  Populist  Party 

□ 

Independent 

0      100    200  Kilometers 

0           100         200  Miles 

Figure  13.  Provincial  Elections,  1989  and  1994 


The  decline — at  least  temporarily — of  the  Motherland  Party 
was  demonstrated  in  the  October  1991  National  Assembly  elec- 
tions. The  party  received  only  24  percent  of  the  total  vote  and 
won  only  115  seats.  In  comparison  to  four  years  earlier,  these 


260 


Government  and  Politics 


results  represented  a  severe  defeat.  However,  the  Motherland 
Party  remained  a  serious  competitor  in  the  political  arena,  fall- 
ing only  from  first  to  second  place  in  terms  of  overall  parlia- 
mentary representation.  Whereas  the  True  Path  Party  emerged 
from  the  elections  with  the  largest  number  of  votes  and  the 
greatest  number  of  assembly  seats,  its  overall  performance — 27 
percent  of  the  total  vote  and  178  assembly  seats — was  less 
impressive  than  Demirel  had  hoped  and  insufficient  to  give  the 
party  the  226  seats  needed  for  parliamentary  control.  For 
Demirel  to  become  prime  minister,  it  would  be  necessary  for 
the  True  Path  Party  to  form  a  coalition  with  the  Motherland 
Party — a  very  unrealistic  prospect — or  at  least  one  of  the  three 
other  parties  that  had  obtained  10  percent  or  more  of  the  total 
vote  and  thus  qualified  for  representation  in  the  assembly  The 
three  parties  were  the  SHP,  eighty-eight  seats;  the  Welfare 
Party,  sixty-two  seats;  and  the  Democratic  Left  Party,  seven 
seats.  In  November  1991,  Demirel  announced  a  DYP-SHP  coali- 
tion government,  with  himself  as  prime  minister  and  SHP 
leader  Inonii  as  deputy  prime  minister.  Thus,  eleven  years  after 
being  overthrown  by  the  military,  Demirel  returned  as  head  of 
government.  More  significantly,  in  May  1993  the  National 
Assembly  elected  Demirel  president  of  the  republic  following 
the  unexpected  death  of  Ozal. 

The  Welfare  Party  and  other  parties  also  perceived  the 
Motherland  Party's  weakness  and  shared  Demirel's  hope  of 
benefiting  from  it.  The  Welfare  Party  built  steady  support  in 
middle-  and  lower-class  urban  neighborhoods  by  focusing  on 
widespread  dissatisfaction  with  government  policies  and  attrib- 
uting official  abuses  of  authority  to  the  failure  of  leaders  to 
adhere  to  traditional  religious  values.  It  had  received  10  per- 
cent of  the  total  vote  in  the  1989  municipal  council  elections 
and  won  control  of  several  small  town  councils.  In  the  October 
1991  National  Assembly  elections,  the  party  obtained  16.9  per- 
cent of  the  total  vote  and  won  sixty-two  seats.  Its  base  in  the 
assembly  provided  the  Welfare  Party  with  a  strong  platform 
from  which  to  criticize  the  DYP-SHP  coalition  government, 
which  Welfare  Party  leaders  accused  of  being  as  insensitive  on 
issues  of  social  injustice  and  civil  rights  abuses  as  its  Mother- 
land predecessor.  In  the  March  1994  municipal  elections,  the 
Welfare  Party  demonstrated  its  ability  to  draw  some  of  the  sup- 
port base  of  the  DYP,  whose  share  of  the  total  vote  fell  to  22 
percent.  In  contrast,  the  Welfare  Party  won  19  percent  of  the 
total  vote — placing  it  a  very  close  third  after  the  DYP  and  the 


261 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Motherland  Party.  Its  mayoralty  candidates  won  in  both  Ankara 
and  Istanbul,  the  country's  two  most  secular  cities,  as  well  as  in 
scores  of  other  cities  and  towns. 

Political  Parties 

Prior  to  1950,  the  Republic  of  Turkey  was  essentially  a  one- 
party  state  ruled  by  the  Republican  People's  Party,  which  had 
been  created  by  Ataturk  to  implement  the  Six  Arrows  of  Kemal- 
ism.  Although  there  had  been  abortive  experiments  with  "loyal 
opposition"  parties  in  the  mid-1920s  and  in  1930,  it  was  not 
until  1946  that  the  CHP  permitted  political  parties  to  form  and 
contest  elections,  albeit  in  a  politically  controlled  environment. 
The  Democrat  Party  was  founded  in  1946  by  CHP  members 
who  were  dissatisfied  with  the  authoritarian  style  of  the  CHP 
but  who  otherwise  supported  the  party's  Kemalist  principles. 
The  DP  emphasized  the  need  to  end  various  restrictions  on 
personal  freedom  so  that  Turkey  could  become  a  democracy. 
Reform  of  laws  governing  political  parties  and  electoral  activi- 
ties— measures  that  would  enable  the  DP  to  compete  on  an 
equal  basis  with  the  CHP — were  enacted  prior  to  the  1950  par- 
liamentary elections.  Consequently,  those  elections  were  the 
first  free  ones  since  the  founding  of  the  republic  in  1923.  The 
DP  won  a  large  majority  of  seats  in  the  assembly  and  thus  took 
over  the  government  from  the  CHP. 

The  DP  retained  control  of  the  government  throughout  the 
1950s,  a  period  during  which  it  enacted  legislation  that 
restricted  news  media  freedom  and  various  civil  liberties.  As 
the  DP  steadily  became  less  tolerant  of  dissent,  the  CHP  gradu- 
ally moved  in  the  opposite  direction,  abandoning  its  authori- 
tarian stance  and  becoming  an  advocate  of  civil  rights.  The 
DP's  efforts  to  suppress  opposition  to  its  policies  provoked  a 
political  crisis  that  culminated  in  a  May  1960  military  coup. 
The  DP  subsequently  was  dissolved,  but  the  Justice  Party,  which 
was  established  in  1961,  was  widely  perceived  as  its  successor 
and  attracted  most  of  its  supporters.  In  the  1961  parliamentary 
elections  that  led  to  the  restoration  of  civilian  government,  the 
Justice  Party  won  the  second  largest  number  of  seats  and  thus 
established  itself  as  the  principal  competitor  of  the  CHP,  which 
had  won  a  plurality  of  seats.  In  the  subsequent  nineteen  years, 
the  rivalry  between  the  Justice  Party  and  the  CHP  remained  a 
significant  feature  of  Turkish  politics.  Although  both  parties 
proclaimed  their  loyalty  to  Kemalist  ideals,  they  evolved  distinct 
ideological  positions.  Suleyman  Demirel,  who  became  leader 


262 


Government  and  Politics 


of  the  Justice  Party  in  1964,  favored  economic  policies  that  ben- 
efited private  entrepreneurs  and  industrialists.  In  contrast, 
Biilent  Ecevit,  who  became  leader  of  the  CHP  in  1965,  believed 
in  a  form  of  democratic  socialism  that  included  government 
intervention  aimed  at  regulating  private  business  and  protect- 
ing workers  and  consumers.  The  views  of  these  two  men  and 
the  positions  of  their  respective  parties  became  increasingly 
polarized  after  1972. 

The  inability  of  either  the  Justice  Party  or  the  CHP  to  win 
parliamentary  majorities  and  the  refusal  of  both  Demirel  and 
Ecevit  to  cooperate  politically  necessitated  the  formation  of 
numerous  coalition  and  minority-party  governments.  These 
governments  proved  ineffective  at  devising  policies  to  cope 
with  Turkey's  economic  and  social  problems,  which  became 
steadily  more  serious  throughout  the  1970s.  Various  groups  on 
the  extreme  right  and  the  extreme  left  formed  illegal  political 
organizations  that  resorted  to  violence  in  pursuit  of  their  objec- 
tives, which  for  certain  groups  included  the  overthrow  of  the 
government.  The  apparent  inability  of  governments — whether 
dominated  by  the  Justice  Party  or  by  the  CHP — to  control 
increasing  terrorism  in  urban  areas  contributed  to  a  general 
sense  of  insecurity  and  crisis  and  served  as  the  catalyst  for  the 
1980  coup.  Blaming  politicians  for  the  country's  political 
impasse,  the  military  sought  to  end  partisan  politics  by  dissolv- 
ing the  old  parties  and  banning  all  activity  by  the  politicians 
deemed  responsible  for  the  crisis.  Although  the  formation  of 
new  parties  was  authorized  in  1983,  none  was  allowed  to  use 
the  name  of  any  of  the  banned  parties  from  the  precoup  past. 
Nevertheless,  most  of  Turkey's  existing  parties  in  early  1995 
were  transparent  continuations  of  earlier  parties. 

True  Path  Party 

In  January  1995,  the  True  Path  Party  (Dogru  Yol  Partisi — 
DYP)  was  the  senior  partner  in  Turkey's  coalition  government. 
It  was  a  continuation  of  the  Justice  Party,  and  its  leader  from 
1987  until  1993  was  Demirel.  Because  Demirel  was  barred  from 
political  activity  prior  to  late  1987,  his  close  associate,  Husamet- 
tin  Cindoruk,  became  the  party's  titular  chair  when  the  True 
Path  Party  was  established  in  1983.  However,  Demirel  was  the 
driving  force  behind  the  party,  raising  money  and  campaigning 
on  its  behalf  despite  being  banned  from  political  action. 
Demirel  promoted  economic  policies  similar  to  those  he  had 
advocated  as  leader  of  the  Justice  Party,  updated,  however,  to 


263 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

reflect  changing  economic  conditions  resulting  from  interna- 
tional political  developments  between  1989  and  1991. 

The  True  Path  Party's  rise  from  political  pariah  to  ruling 
party  was  gradual.  In  1983  the  military  government  prohibited 
the  party's  participation  in  the  parliamentary  elections,  effec- 
tively shutting  it  out  of  the  legal  political  process.  However,  a 
gain  of  thirty-five  seats  in  the  National  Assembly  resulted  in 
1986  when  the  Nationalist  Democracy  Party  dissolved  itself  and 
most  of  its  deputies  joined  the  True  Path  Party.  Subsequently 
the  party  won  fifty-nine  seats  in  the  1987  parliamentary  elec- 
tions, and  Demirel  returned  to  the  National  Assembly  as  a  dep- 
uty for  the  first  time  since  the  military  coup.  The  party's 
performance  four  years  later  was  even  more  impressive:  the 
True  Path  Party  tripled  its  representation  to  178  seats  and 
emerged  from  the  1991  elections  with  a  plurality  in  the  assem- 
bly. Demirel,  who  had  served  three  times  as  prime  minister 
before  the  1980  coup  and  twice  had  been  deposed  by  the  mili- 
tary, succeeded  in  forming  his  fourth  government  by  negotiat- 
ing a  coalition  agreement  with  the  SHP. 

When  the  Demirel  government  assumed  office  in  Novem- 
ber 1991,  it  faced  several  political  and  economic  challenges. 
Two  important  political  issues  eluding  resolution  were  the 
increasing  militancy  of  Kurdish  demands  for  civil  rights  and 
the  growing  stridency  of  the  confrontation  between  religious 
and  secular  elements  of  society.  Although  the  True  Path  Party 
had  no  sympathy  for  Kurdish  aspirations,  its  SHP  partners 
tended  to  support  cultural  freedom  for  the  Kurds  and  had  a 
relatively  strong  political  base  in  the  Kurdish  provinces.  How- 
ever, the  SHP's  ability  to  influence  overall  government  policy 
on  the  Kurdish  issue  was  limited  because  the  military  had 
assumed  de  facto  decision-making  authority  for  matters  per- 
taining to  southeastern  Turkey  and  expected  that  civilian  poli- 
ticians would  accept  this  role.  There  was  also  no  consensus 
among  either  True  Path  Party  or  SHP  leaders  on  how  to  handle 
Islamist  aspirations.  Whereas  some  True  Path  Party  members 
believed  it  was  possible  to  accommodate  Islamist  concerns,  mil- 
itant secularists  opposed  any  concessions  to  those  whom  they 
termed  "Islamic  fundamentalists." 

After  President  Ozal  suffered  a  fatal  heart  attack  in  April 
1993,  Demirel  decided  he  wanted  to  be  president.  In  accor- 
dance with  the  constitution,  which  mandated  that  the  presi- 
dent be  nonpartisan,  Demirel  resigned  as  the  True  Path  Party's 
secretary  general  in  May,  after  the  National  Assembly  had 


264 


Government  and  Politics 


elected  him  president.  In  June  1993,  the  party's  deputies  in  the 
assembly  chose  as  their  new  leader  Tansu  (filler  (b.  1946),  the 
first  woman  to  head  a  Turkish  political  party,  (filler,  who  had 
done  graduate  studies  in  economics  in  the  United  States,  put 
together  a  new  DYP-SHP  coalition  government  that  was 
approved  by  the  assembly  in  July  1993,  enabling  her  to  become 
Turkey's  first  female  prime  minister. 

Social  Democratic  Populist  Party 

In  early  1995,  the  junior  partner  in  the  (filler  government 
was  the  Social  Democratic  Populist  Party,  known  by  the  Turkish 
acronym  SHP,  for  Sosyal  Demokrat  Halkci  Parti.  The  SHP  was 
one  of  several  parties  formed  since  1983  that  presented  itself  as 
an  heir  to  the  CHP.  In  fact,  the  SHP  leader,  Erdal  Inonii,  was 
the  son  of  Ismet  Inonii,  a  close  associate  of  Atatiirk  and  a 
cofounder  of  the  CHP.  The  SHP  had  been  created  in  1985 
when  Inonti's  Sodep  (disqualified  by  the  military  from  partici- 
pating in  the  1983  parliamentary  elections)  merged  with  Nec- 
det  Calp's  Populist  Party,  which  had  been  allowed  to  take  part 
in  the  1983  elections  and  had  won  the  second  largest  number 
of  assembly  seats. 

The  decision  to  join  the  True  Path  Party  in  a  coalition  gov- 
ernment brought  to  the  fore  the  internal  divisions  within  the 
SHP.  Civil  rights  activists,  both  Turkish  and  Kurdish,  opposed 
the  SHP's  participation  in  the  government  because  they  associ- 
ated Demirel  with  government  abuses  of  human  rights  during 
the  late  1970s  and  doubted  his  willingness  to  terminate  martial 
law  in  the  Kurdish  provinces.  Consequently  eighteen  SHP  dep- 
uties resigned  from  the  party  and,  led  by  Ahmet  Turk,  estab- 
lished the  People's  Labor  Party  (Halkin  Emek  Partisi — HEP)  in 
1990  as  a  separate  group  in  the  National  Assembly,  although 
they  agreed  to  continue  voting  with  the  SHP  on  certain  issues. 
Because  the  HEP  emphasized  civil  rights  issues,  its  primary 
appeal  was  among  Kurds,  and  a  majority  of  the  party's  execu- 
tives were  Kurdish.  The  alliance  with  the  HEP  enabled  the  SHP 
to  broaden  its  support  base — the  urban  working-class  neigh- 
borhoods of  western  and  northeastern  Turkey — to  include  the 
Kurdish  areas  of  the  southeast.  Meanwhile  the  security  situa- 
tion in  the  southeast  deteriorated  as  guerrillas  affiliated  with 
the  PKK  intensified  attacks  on  government  sites  and  personnel 
as  part  of  a  proclaimed  effort  to  create  a  separate  Kurdish  state. 

Many  Turkish  leaders,  both  civilian  and  military,  tended  not 
to  distinguish  between  the  HEP,  which  was  committed  to  work- 


265 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

ing  for  civil  rights  within  the  political  process,  and  the  PKK, 
which  aimed  to  overthrow  the  political  system  through  armed 
struggle.  When  the  military  initiated  proceedings  against  HEP 
founders  in  1992  for  allegedly  promoting  "separatist  propa- 
ganda," the  HEP  deputies  accused  the  SHP  of  not  actively  pro- 
tecting them  from  official  persecution.  The  Constitutional 
Court  outlawed  the  HEP  in  1993  and  its  successor,  the  Democ- 
racy Party  (Demokrasi  Partisi — DEP),  the  following  year.  These 
developments,  plus  the  arrest  of  DEP  deputies  in  the  National 
Assembly  in  March  and  June  1994,  adversely  affected  the  SHP's 
image,  especially  among  its  Kurdish  supporters.  Consequently 
the  SHP  did  very  poorly  in  the  1994  municipal  council  elec- 
tions— virtually  all  SHP  incumbents  in  the  cities  and  towns  of 
southeastern  Turkey  lost.  It  remained  unclear  in  early  1995 
whether  the  SHP  could  regain  the  confidence  of  its  Kurdish 
base.  A  failure  to  do  so  would  diminish  the  SHP's  chances  in 
the  1996  parliamentary  elections  to  maintain  its  status  as  the 
third  largest  party  in  the  National  Assembly. 

Motherland  Party 

In  early  1995,  the  Motherland  Party  (Anavatan  Partisi — 
ANAP)  was  the  main  parliamentary  opposition  party,  after  hav- 
ing served  as  the  governing  party  from  1983  to  1991.  Turgut 
Ozal  founded  the  Motherland  Party  in  May  1983,  and  his  per- 
sonality and  energy  were  instrumental  to  the  party's  subse- 
quent success.  Even  after  Ozal  officially  resigned  as  party 
leader  in  1989  to  become  president,  his  influence — and  that  of 
his  wife  and  brothers — continued  in  Motherland  Party  affairs. 
For  example,  Ozal  handpicked  his  successor  as  party  leader, 
Yildirim  Akbulut.  However,  after  Akbulut  proved  ineffective, 
both  as  party  chair  and  as  prime  minister,  Ozal  pressured  him 
to  resign  in  June  1991.  In  anticipation  of  the  forthcoming  par- 
liamentary elections,  Ozal  approved  the  younger  and  more 
dynamic  Mesut  Yilmaz  as  Akbulut's  successor.  Yilmaz  cam- 
paigned energetically,  used  his  position  as  prime  minister  to 
woo  voters  with  incentives  such  as  wage  increases  for  public-sec- 
tor employees,  and  performed  well  against  other  political  lead- 
ers in  Turkey's  first-ever  televised  political  debate.  However,  the 
Motherland  Party's  total  share  of  the  national  vote  in  the  Octo- 
ber 1991  balloting  fell  by  12  percent  compared  to  1987,  and 
the  party  won  sixty-three  fewer  assembly  seats  than  its  rival,  the 
True  Path  Party. 


266 


Government  and  Politics 


The  Motherland  Party's  policies  and  constituency  were  simi- 
lar to  those  of  the  True  Path  Party,  but  the  intense  personal 
rivalry  between  Demirel  and  Ozal  had  precluded  political 
cooperation  between  the  two  parties  prior  to  Ozal's  death  in 
1993.  The  president's  death  represented  both  a  major  loss  and 
a  potential  opportunity  for  the  Motherland  Party.  The  party's 
cohesion  had  depended  on  the  force  of  Ozal's  personality,  and 
in  early  1995  it  was  unclear  whether  Yilmaz  would  succeed  in 
transforming  the  Motherland  Party  into  an  effective  organiza- 
tion based  on  a  coherent  political  program  and  ideology.  In 
addition,  because  the  party's  past  electoral  strength  had 
derived  from  Ozal's  own  popular  appeal,  it  was  not  evident 
what  long-term  impact  his  death  would  have.  Despite  Yilmaz's 
relative  youth  and  limited  political  experience,  he  appeared  to 
be  the  party's  chief  asset,  and  even  before  Ozal's  death  he  had 
been  trying  to  chart  a  course  independent  of  the  party's  influ- 
ential founder.  Nevertheless,  many  members  were  dissatisfied 
with  Yilmaz's  leadership;  in  late  1992  and  early  1993,  more 
than  fifteen  Motherland  Party  deputies,  citing  differences  with 
Yilmaz,  resigned  from  the  party  in  a  move  that  reduced  its  over- 
all strength  in  the  National  Assembly  to  fewer  than  100  seats. 
More  than  fifty  former  deputies,  including  five  founding  mem- 
bers of  the  party,  also  resigned  to  demonstrate  their  opposition 
to  Yilmaz.  Yilmaz  now  faced  the  challenge  of  developing  a  new 
party  identity  that  would  appeal  to  a  broader  constituency; 
otherwise  the  Motherland  Party  would  expend  all  its  energies 
competing  with  the  ideologically  similar  True  Path  Party. 

Welfare  Party 

The  Welfare  Party  (Refah  Partisi — RP),  which  had  received 
only  7  percent  of  the  total  vote  in  the  1987  parliamentary  elec- 
tions and  thus  had  not  qualified  for  assembly  seats,  was  the 
main  electoral  surprise  in  the  1991  balloting.  Nearly  17  percent 
of  the  electorate  voted  for  the  Welfare  Party,  enabling  it  to  win 
sixty-two  seats  in  the  National  Assembly.  The  Welfare  Party  was 
widely  considered  an  Islamic  party.  Its  leader,  Necmettin  Erba- 
kan, had  been  identified  with  Islamic  political  activism  since 
the  early  1970s.  He  was  the  founder  in  1972  of  the  National  Sal- 
vation Party  (Milli  Selamet  Partisi — MSP),  which  became  the 
third  largest  party  in  parliament  in  1973.  The  MSP  openly  sup- 
ported a  religious  political  agenda  calling  for  the  restoration  of 
traditional  "morals  and  virtues"  and  a  reduction  of  economic 
ties  to  the  Christian  countries  of  Western  Europe.  In  1974  the 


267 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

MSP  gained  a  measure  of  political  legitimacy  by  participating 
in  a  CHP-led  coalition  government.  In  fact,  Turgut  Ozal  briefly 
was  a  member  of  the  MSP  in  the  1970s  and  was  at  one  time  an 
unsuccessful  candidate  on  its  parliamentary  list. 

Following  the  1980  coup,  the  military  not  only  dissolved  the 
MSP,  along  with  other  political  parties,  but  also  prosecuted 
Erbakan  and  other  MSP  leaders  for  violating  a  law  forbidding 
the  use  of  religion  for  political  purposes.  When  new  political 
parties  were  authorized  in  1983,  Erbakan  founded  the  Welfare 
Party  on  a  platform  stressing  themes  similar  to  those  espoused 
by  the  defunct  MSP.  The  ruling  generals — and  most  civilians — 
perceived  the  Welfare  Party  as  a  continuation  of  the  MSP.  It  was 
therefore  disqualified  from  participation  in  the  1983  parlia- 
mentary elections.  However,  the  party  did  sponsor  candidates 
in  the  1984  municipal  elections  and  since  then  has  steadily 
expanded  its  support  base. 

The  Welfare  Party's  strength  is  in  middle-  and  lower-class 
urban  neighborhoods  and  in  the  Kurdish  areas  of  the  south- 
east. This  strength  was  first  demonstrated  during  the  municipal 
elections  of  1989,  when  the  party's  candidates  for  mayor  won  in 
five  large  cities  and  100  towns.  The  1991  parliamentary  elec- 
tions provided  further  evidence  of  the  Welfare  Party's  growing 
popularity  and  its  ability  to  consolidate  an  electoral  base. 
Inspired  by  the  party's  achievements  in  1991,  Welfare  Party 
activists,  including  a  new  generation  of  university  students, 
campaigned  tirelessly  to  recruit  new  supporters.  As  a  result  of 
these  efforts,  the  Welfare  Party's  share  of  the  total  vote 
increased  to  19  percent  in  the  municipal  elections  of  March 
1994.  The  symbolic  importance  of  the  1994  balloting  because 
of  its  religious  implications,  probably  exceeded  the  actual  sig- 
nificance of  the  party's  turnout.  Tayyip  Erdogan,  the  Welfare 
Party's  candidate  for  mayor  of  Istanbul,  and  Melih  Gokchek,  its 
mayoral  candidate  for  Ankara,  both  won.  In  addition,  Welfare 
Party  candidates  for  mayor  won  in  twenty-seven  other  cities  and 
in  400  towns,  including  almost  all  of  the  predominantly  Kurd- 
ish municipalities  in  the  southeast. 

The  Welfare  Party's  electoral  appeal  stems  from  the  popu- 
larity of  its  call  for  a  return  to  traditional  values — widely  inter- 
preted as  meaning  Islamic  morals  and  behavior.  Its  slogans  are 
sufficiently  vague  with  respect  to  specific  policies  to  attract 
diverse  support.  Thus,  self-identified  Welfare  Party  loyalists 
range  from  professionals  who  dress  in  expensive  Western  fash- 
ions and  interpret  Islam  liberally  to  individuals,  especially 


268 


Government  and  Politics 


women,  who  adopt  a  contemporary  version  of  traditional 
Islamic  dress  and  give  Islam  a  fundamentalist  interpretation. 
Whereas  the  Welfare  Party  has  adopted  certain  well-defined 
positions,  such  as  opposition  to  Turkey's  goal  of  full  member- 
ship in  the  European  Union,  its  adherents  tend  to  hold  diver- 
gent views  on  most  economic  and  political  issues.  However, 
they  share  a  common  interest  in  religious  practices  such  as 
daily  prayers,  fasting  during  the  Islamic  holy  month  of  Rama- 
zan  (Ramadan  in  Arabic),  avoiding  behavior  harmful  to  others, 
and  reading  the  Kuran  (Quran  in  Arabic).  Furthermore,  the 
Welfare  Party's  emphasis  on  common  religious  bonds  tends  to 
bring  together,  rather  than  to  divide,  Turkish-speaking  and 
Kurdish-speaking  Muslims  and  has  impressed  secular  Kurds 
who  have  become  disillusioned  with  other  political  parties. 

Democratic  Left  Party 

The  Democratic  Left  Party,  known  by  the  Turkish  acronym 
DSP  (for  Demokratik  Sol  Partisi),  was  the  smallest  parliamen- 
tary party  in  January  1995.  Because  the  party  received  almost 
11  percent  of  the  vote  in  the  1991  elections,  DSP  leader  Biilent 
Ecevit  and  six  other  party  officials  took  seats  in  the  National 
Assembly.  Ecevit  considered  the  DSP  the  legitimate  successor 
to  the  CHP,  which  he  headed  prior  to  the  1980  coup.  When  the 
DSP  was  founded  in  November  1985 — with  Ecevit's  wife  serving 
as  chair  because  he  remained  barred  from  political  activity — 
Ecevit  made  known  his  low  opinion  of  the  SHP,  which  also  pre- 
sented itself  as  the  heir  to  the  CHP,  and  its  leader,  Erdal  Inonu. 
Ecevit's  personal  animosity  toward  Inonu  prevented  DSP-SHP 
cooperation,  even  though  the  parties  had  similar  programs 
and  appealed  to  the  same  constituency.  In  both  1987  and  1991, 
Ecevit  spurned  efforts  by  Inonu  and  other  SHP  leaders  to  per- 
suade him  to  join  an  electoral  alliance.  Ecevit  condemned  the 
SHP's  participation  in  the  Demirel  and  (filler  governments  as 
evidence  that  the  party  had  abandoned  social-democratic  prin- 
ciples and  betrayed  the  working  class. 

Other  Parties 

Several  small  parties  existed  in  early  1995.  Two  post-1991 
splinters  from  parliamentary  parties  included  Unity  and  Peace 
(Birlik  ve  Baris),  whose  members  left  the  Welfare  Party  in  1992, 
and  the  Freedom  and  Labor  Party  (OZEP),  formed  from  a 
breakaway  faction  of  the  SHP  in  1992.  The  Nationalist  Labor 
Party  (Milliyetci  £alisma  Partisi — MQP),  founded  in  1985  by 


269 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


the  controversial  nationalist  of  the  1970s,  Alparslan  Turkes, 
espoused  pan-Turkism  in  foreign  policy  and  cooperated  with 
the  Welfare  Party  in  domestic  politics.  Deniz  Baykel,  a  politi- 
cian disillusioned  by  the  partisan  sniping  between  the  SHP  and 
the  True  Path  Party,  announced  the  reactivation  of  the  CHP  in 
September  1992  and  called  on  its  former  members  to  rejoin. 
Thirteen  SHP  deputies  joined  the  new  CHP,  providing  it  with 
an  immediate  base  in  the  National  Assembly.  The  former  Dem- 
ocrat Party,  banned  following  the  1960  coup,  also  was  reacti- 
vated in  1992.  It  consisted  of  politicians  who  supported  the 
economic  policies  of  the  Motherland  Party  and  the  True  Path 
Party  but  distrusted  both  Ozal  and  Demirel. 

In  addition  to  the  legal  parties,  several  illegal  political  orga- 
nizations operated  clandestinely  in  Turkey  in  1995.  These  par- 
ties were  considered  illegal  either  because  they  never  had 
registered  as  required  by  law  or  because  they  had  been  pro- 
scribed by  judicial  authorities.  Many  of  these  parties  advocated 
armed  struggle,  although  some  were  nonviolent.  The  illegal 
parties  fell  into  three  categories,  which  reflected  the  inter- 
twined security  and  ideological  concerns  of  the  Turkish  mili- 
tary since  1980:  separatist  parties,  a  term  used  to  describe  all 
Kurdish  groups;  communist  parties,  a  term  used  to  describe  all 
organizations  espousing  various  versions  of  Marxism;  and  irtica 
(religious  reaction)  parties,  a  term  used  to  describe  all  groups 
pushing  for  the  establishment  of  an  Islamic  government  in 
Turkey.  The  most  important  of  the  illegal  parties  was  the  Kurd- 
istan Workers'  Party  (Partiya  Karkere  Kurdistan — PKK),  which 
in  1984  had  initiated  a  steadily  escalating  armed  struggle 
against  the  government.  By  mid-1994  at  least  12,000  persons 
were  estimated  to  have  been  killed  in  southeastern  Turkey, 
where  the  government  maintained  at  least  160,000  troops  in 
combat  readiness  against  as  many  as  15,000  guerrillas.  With  the 
exception  of  the  Revolutionary  Left  Party  (Devrimci  Sol — Dev 
Sol),  the  illegal  communist  and  Islamic  groups  were  not  well 
organized;  they  functioned  in  small  cells  that  carried  out 
mainly  isolated  but  sensational  acts  of  terrorism  in  various  cit- 
ies. One  of  the  more  notorious  actions  was  the  January  1993 
car  bomb  assassination  of  the  nationally  prominent  journalist 
Ugur  Memcu,  for  which  an  extreme  Islamist  group  claimed 
responsibility  (see  Internal  Security  Concerns,  ch.  5). 

Political  Interest  Groups 

The  decades  following  World  War  II  saw  a  proliferation  of 


270 


Government  and  Politics 


interest  groups  that  evolved  into  increasingly  active  and  politi- 
cally conscious  associations.  The  growth  of  these  groups  was 
part  of  a  general  trend  toward  a  more  politicized  and  pluralis- 
tic society.  This  trend  resulted  primarily  from  factors  such  as 
the  advent  of  multiparty  politics,  economic  development  and 
the  accompanying  expansion  of  opportunity,  and  improve- 
ments in  communications  (see  Mass  Media,  this  ch.).  Increas- 
ing urbanization,  rising  literacy  rates,  rapid  industrial 
expansion,  and  the  exposure  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
Turkish  guest  workers — most  from  villages  and  lower-class 
urban  areas — to  new  ideas  and  customs  in  Western  Europe  also 
contributed  to  the  politicization  of  the  populace.  As  a  conse- 
quence, a  growing  number  of  voluntary  associations  sprang  up 
to  promote  specific  interests,  either  on  their  own,  through  rep- 
resentatives in  parliament,  or  through  the  cabinet  and  senior 
bureaucrats.  These  associations  enabled  various  social  groups 
to  exercise  a  degree  of  influence  over  political  matters.  The 
activities  of  groups  such  as  labor  unions,  business  associations, 
student  organizations,  a  journalists'  association,  and  religious 
and  cultural  associations  promoted  public  awareness  of  impor- 
tant issues  and  contributed  to  a  relatively  strong  civil  society. 

The  autonomy  of  civic  groups  vis-a-vis  the  state  has  been  a 
persistent  political  problem  since  1960.  During  periods  of  mili- 
tary rule  and  martial  law,  the  independence  of  such  groups 
often  was  circumscribed  (see  Crisis  in  Turkish  Democracy,  ch. 
1).  Following  the  military  takeover  in  September  1980,  for 
example,  strict  limits  were  placed  on  the  political  activities  of 
civic  associations;  some  of  these  restrictions  remained  in  force 
in  early  1995.  For  example,  the  1982  constitution,  like  that  of 
1961,  affirms  the  right  of  individuals  to  form  associations  but 
also  stipulates  that  the  exercise  of  this  right  must  not  violate 
the  "indivisible  integrity  of  the  state."  Furthermore,  associa- 
tions are  prohibited  from  discriminating  on  the  basis  of  lan- 
guage, race,  or  religion,  or  from  trying  to  promote  one  social 
class  or  group  over  others.  Civic  associations  also  are  forbidden 
to  pursue  political  aims,  engage  in  political  activities,  receive 
support  from  or  give  support  to  political  parties,  or  take  joint 
action  with  labor  unions  or  professional  organizations.  In  addi- 
tion, legislation  enacted  in  1983  prohibits  teachers,  high 
school  students,  civil  servants,  and  soldiers  from  forming  asso- 
ciations, and  bans  officials  of  professional  organizations  from 
participating  actively  in  politics. 


271 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Military 

By  dint  of  the  influence  it  has  exerted  on  politics  since  the 
early  days  of  the  Turkish  republic,  the  military  constitutes  the 
country's  most  important  interest  group.  Ataturk  and  his  prin- 
cipal allies  all  were  career  officers  during  the  final  years  of  the 
Ottoman  Empire.  Although  Ataturk  subsequently  endeavored 
to  separate  the  military  from  political  affairs,  he  nevertheless 
considered  the  army  to  be  the  "intelligentsia  of  the  Turkish 
nation"  and  "the  guardian  of  its  ideals."  By  the  time  of  Ataturk's 
death  in  1938,  the  military  had  internalized  a  view  of  itself  as  a 
national  elite  responsible  for  protecting  the  Six  Arrows  of 
Kemalism.  Prior  to  1960,  the  military  worked  behind  the 
scenes  to  ensure  that  the  country  adhered  to  the  guidelines  of 
the  Kemalist  principles.  However,  in  1960  senior  officers  were 
so  alarmed  by  government  policies  they  perceived  as  deviating 
from  Kemalism  that  they  intervened  directly  in  the  political 
process  by  overthrowing  the  elected  government  and  setting 
up  a  military  regime.  The  military  saw  its  mission  as  putting  the 
country  back  on  the  correct  path  of  Kemalism.  Believing  by 
October  1961  that  this  goal  had  been  achieved,  the  officers 
returned  to  the  barracks,  whence  they  exercised  oversight  of 
civilian  politicians. 

The  1960  coup  demonstrated  the  military's  special  status  as 
an  interest  group  autonomous — if  it  chose  to  be — from  the 
government.  On  two  subsequent  occasions,  in  1971  and  1980, 
the  military  again  intervened  to  remove  a  government  it  per- 
ceived as  violating  Kemalist  principles.  The  1980  coup  resulted 
in  a  longer  transition  period  to  civilian  government  and  the 
imposition  of  more  extensive  restrictions  on  political  rights 
than  had  the  earlier  interventions.  At  the  start  of  1995,  some 
fourteen  years  after  the  coup,  senior  officers  in  the  armed  ser- 
vices still  expected  the  civilian  president  and  Council  of  Minis- 
ters to  heed  their  advice  on  matters  they  considered  pertinent 
to  national  security.  For  instance,  the  military  defines  many 
domestic  law-and-order  issues  as  falling  within  the  realm  of 
national  security  and  thus  both  formulates  and  implements 
certain  policies  that  the  government  is  expected  to  approve. 

Universities 

College  teachers  and  students  have  acted  as  a  pressure 
group  in  Turkey  since  the  late  1950s,  when  they  initiated  dem- 
onstrations against  university  teaching  methods,  curricula,  and 
administrative  practices  that  they  alleged  resulted  in  an  inade- 


272 


View  of  Ankara,  showing  the  National  Assembly  building, 
and  view  of  the  interior  of  the  National  Assembly 
Courtesy  Turkish  Information  Office 


273 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

quate  education.  The  violent  repression  of  student  demonstra- 
tions in  the  spring  of  1960  was  one  of  the  factors  that  prompted 
that  year's  military  coup.  In  1960  both  teachers  and  students 
generally  were  held  in  high  public  esteem  because  the  universi- 
ties were  viewed  as  the  centers  where  the  future  Kemalist  elite 
was  being  trained.  During  the  1960s  and  1970s,  however,  the 
universities  became  the  loci  of  ideological  conflicts  among  a 
multitude  of  political  groups  espousing  diverse  political,  eco- 
nomic, and  religious  ideas.  As  students  became  progressively 
more  radicalized  and  violent,  armed  clashes  among  rival  stu- 
dent groups  and  between  students  and  police  increased  in  fre- 
quency and  magnitude.  By  1980  the  military  regarded  the 
universities  as  a  source  of  threats  to  Kemalist  principles. 

One  of  the  aims  of  the  military  government  that  assumed 
power  in  1980  was  to  regain  state  control  over  the  universities. 
The  regime  created  a  Council  of  Higher  Education,  which  was 
intended  to  provide  a  less  autonomous,  more  uniform  system 
of  central  administration.  The  regime  purged  ideologically  sus- 
pect professors  from  the  faculties  of  all  universities  and  issued  a 
law  prohibiting  teachers  from  joining  political  parties.  Student 
associations  lost  their  autonomy,  and  students  charged  with 
participating  in  illegal  organizations  became  subject  to  expul- 
sion. A  cautious  revival  of  campus  political  activity  began  in  the 
1990s,  mainly  around  foreign  policy  issues.  However,  as  of  early 
1995  the  government's  possession  of  the  means  and  will  to  pun- 
ish campus  activists  appeared  to  be  intimidating  most  faculty 
and  students. 

Labor 

The  legalization  of  unions  under  the  Trade  Union  Law  of 
1947  paved  the  way  for  the  slow  but  steady  growth  of  a  labor 
movement  that  evolved  parallel  to  multiparty  politics.  The 
principal  goal  of  unions  as  defined  in  the  1947  law  was  to  seek 
the  betterment  of  members'  social  and  economic  status. 
Unions  were  denied  the  right  to  strike  or  to  engage  in  political 
activity,  either  on  their  own  or  as  vehicles  of  political  parties.  In 
spite  of  these  limitations,  labor  unions  gradually  acquired  polit- 
ical influence.  The  Confederation  of  Turkish  Trade  Unions 
(Tiirkiye  Isci  Sendikalari  Konfederasyonu — Turk-Is)  was 
founded  in  1952  at  government  instigation  to  serve  as  an  inde- 
pendent umbrella  group.  Under  the  tutelage  of  Turk-Is,  labor 
evolved  into  a  well-organized  interest  group;  the  organization 
also  functioned  as  an  agency  through  which  the  government 


274 


Government  and  Politics 


could  restrain  workers'  wage  demands  (see  Human  Resources 
and  Trade  Unions,  ch.  3).  The  labor  movement  expanded  in 
the  liberalized  political  climate  of  the  1960s,  especially  after  a 
union  law  enacted  in  1963  legalized  strikes,  lockouts,  and  col- 
lective bargaining.  However,  unions  were  forbidden  to  give 
"material  aid"  to  political  parties.  Political  parties  also  were 
barred  from  giving  money  to  unions  or  forming  separate  labor 
organizations. 

The  labor  movement  did  not  escape  the  politicization  and 
polarization  that  characterized  the  1960s  and  1970s.  Workers' 
dissatisfaction  with  Turk-Is  as  the  representative  of  their  inter- 
ests led  to  the  founding  in  1967  of  the  Confederation  of  Revo- 
lutionary Workers'  Trade  Unions  of  Turkey  (Turkiye  Devrimci 
Isci  Sendikalan  Konfederasyonu — DISK).  DISK  leaders  were 
militants  who  had  been  expelled  from  Turk-Is  after  supporting 
a  glass  factory  strike  opposed  by  the  Turk-Is  bureaucracy.  Both 
Turk-Is  and  the  government  tried  to  suppress  DISK,  whose 
independence  was  perceived  as  a  threat.  However,  a  spontane- 
ous, two-day,  pro-DISK  demonstration  by  thousands  of  laborers 
in  Istanbul — the  first  mass  political  action  by  Turkish  work- 
ers— forced  the  government  in  June  1970  to  back  away  from  a 
bill  to  abolish  DISK.  For  the  next  ten  years,  DISK  remained  an 
independent  organization  promoting  the  rights  of  workers  and 
supporting  their  job  actions,  including  one  major  general 
strike  in  1977  that  led  to  the  temporary  abolition  of  the  mili- 
tary-run State  Security  Courts.  By  1980  about  500,000  workers 
belonged  to  unions  affiliated  with  DISK. 

Following  the  1980  coup,  the  military  regime  banned  inde- 
pendent union  activity,  suspended  DISK,  and  arrested  hun- 
dreds of  its  activists,  including  all  its  top  officials.  The 
government  prosecuted  DISK  leaders,  as  well  as  more  than 
1,000  other  trade  unionists  arrested  in  1980,  in  a  series  of  trials 
that  did  not  end  until  December  1986.  The  secretary  general 
of  DISK  and  more  than  250  other  defendants  received  jail  sen- 
tences of  up  to  ten  years.  Meanwhile,  the  more  complaisant 
Turk-Is,  which  had  not  been  outlawed  after  the  coup,  worked 
with  the  military  government  and  its  successors  to  depoliticize 
workers.  As  the  government-approved  labor  union  confedera- 
tion, Turk-Is  benefited  from  new  laws  pertaining  to  unions.  For 
example,  the  1982  constitution  permits  unions  but  prohibits 
them  from  engaging  in  political  activity,  thus  effectively  deny- 
ing them  the  right  to  petition  political  representatives.  As  in 
the  days  prior  to  1967,  unions  must  depend  upon  Turk-Is  to 


275 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

mediate  between  them  and  the  government.  A  law  issued  in 
May  1983  restricts  the  establishment  of  new  trade  unions  and 
places  constraints  on  the  right  to  strike  by  banning  politically 
motivated  strikes,  general  strikes,  solidarity  strikes,  and  any 
strike  considered  a  threat  to  society  or  national  well-being. 

The  government's  restrictions  on  union  activity  tended  to 
demoralize  workers,  who  generally  remained  passive  for  more 
than  five  years  after  the  1980  coup.  However,  beginning  in 
1986  unions  experienced  a  resurgence.  In  February  several 
thousand  workers  angered  by  pension  cutbacks  held  a  rally — 
labor's  first  such  demonstration  since  the  1980  coup — to  pro- 
test high  living  costs,  low  wages,  high  unemployment,  and 
restrictions  on  union  organizing  and  collective  bargaining.  A 
subsequent  rally  in  June  drew  an  estimated  50,000  demonstra- 
tors. Since  1986  workers  have  conducted  numerous  rallies, 
small  strikes,  work  slowdowns,  and  other  manifestations  of  dis- 
satisfaction. By  the  early  1990s,  an  average  of  120,000  workers 
per  year  were  involved  in  strike  activity.  Turk-Is  has  mediated 
these  incidents  by  bailing  detained  workers  out  of  prison,  nego- 
tiating compromise  wage  increase  packages,  and  encouraging 
cooperative  labor-management  relations. 

Business 

The  Turkish  Trade  Association  (Turkiye  Odalar  Birligi — 
TOB)  has  represented  the  interests  of  merchants,  industrial- 
ists, and  commodity  brokers  since  1952.  In  the  1960s  and 
1970s,  new  associations  representing  the  interests  of  private 
industry  challenged  TOB's  position  as  the  authoritative  repre- 
sentative of  business  in  Turkey.  Subsequently  the  organization 
came  to  be  identified  primarily  with  small  and  medium-sized 
firms.  The  Union  of  Chambers  of  Industry  was  founded  in 
1967  as  a  coalition  within  TOB  by  industrialists  seeking  to  reor- 
ganize the  confederation.  The  Union  of  Chambers  of  Industry 
was  unable  to  acquire  independent  status  but  achieved 
improved  coordination  of  industrialists'  demands.  By  setting 
up  study  groups,  the  union  was  able  to  pool  research  on  devel- 
opment projects.  In  addition,  the  union  organized  regional 
Chambers  of  Industry  within  TOB. 

Business  interests  also  were  served  by  employers'  associa- 
tions that  dealt  primarily  with  labor-management  relations  and 
were  united  under  the  aegis  of  the  Turkish  Confederation  of 
Employers'  Unions  (Turkiye  Isveren  Sendikalan  Konfederas- 
yonu — TISK).  This  confederation  was  established  in  1961, 


276 


Government  and  Politics 


largely  in  response  to  the  development  of  trade  unions,  and 
was  considered  the  most  militant  of  employers'  associations.  By 
the  end  of  1980,  TISK  claimed  106  affiliated  groups  with  a  total 
membership  of  9,183  employers.  Although  membership  in 
TISK  was  open  to  employers  in  both  the  private  and  public  sec- 
tors, it  was  primarily  an  organization  of  private-sector  employ- 
ers. When  the  military  regime  took  power  in  1980,  labor  union 
activities  were  suspended,  but  TISK  was  allowed  to  continue 
functioning.  Employers  supported  the  subsequent  restrictive 
labor  legislation,  which  appeared  to  be  in  accord  with  TISK 
proposals. 

Another  representative  of  business  interests,  the  Turkish 
Industrialists'  and  Businessmen's  Association  (Turk  Sanayicileri 
ve  Is  Adamlari  Dernegi — TUSIAD),  was  founded  by  the  leaders 
of  some  of  Turkey's  largest  business  and  industrial  enterprises 
soon  after  the  March  1971  military  coup.  Its  aim  was  to 
improve  the  image  of  business  and  to  stress  its  concern  with 
social  issues.  At  the  same  time,  TUSIAD  favored  granting 
greater  control  of  investment  capital  to  the  large  industrialists 
at  the  expense  of  the  smaller  merchant  and  banking  interests 
usually  supported  by  TOB.  TUSIAD's  leaders  also  were  con- 
cerned with  the  widening  economic  inequalities  between 
regions  and  social  classes  and  opposed  TISK's  extreme  antila- 
bor  policies,  which  they  perceived  as  jeopardizing  Turkey's 
chances  of  entering  the  European  Union. 

Religious  Interests 

Turkey  officially  has  been  a  secular  state  since  1924.  Ataturk 
viewed  attachment  to  religion  as  an  impediment  to  moderniza- 
tion and  imposed  rigorous  restrictions  on  the  practice  of  Islam 
(see  Secularist  Reforms,  ch.  2).  Until  the  late  1940s,  the  separa- 
tion of  mosque  and  state  was  rigidly  enforced  by  the  authoritar- 
ian, one-party  government.  However,  secularism  remained  an 
elite  ideology,  whereas  Islam,  the  nominal  religion  of  98  per- 
cent of  the  population,  continued  to  be  a  strong  influence  on 
most  of  the  people,  especially  in  rural  areas  and  lower-class 
urban  neighborhoods.  The  advent  of  competitive  politics  in 
1950  enabled  religion  to  reacquire  a  respected  public  status. 
Initially  the  Democrat  Party,  then  most  other  parties,  found  it 
politically  expedient  to  appeal  to  religious  sentiments  in  elec- 
tion campaigns.  As  the  government  gradually  became  more  tol- 
erant of  religious  expression,  both  public  observance  of 
religious  festivals  and  mosque  construction  increased.  In  addi- 


277 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

tion,  there  was  a  resurgence  of  voluntary  religious  associations, 
including  the  tarikatlar  (sing.,  tarikat — see  Glossary).  Prior  to 
1970,  however,  religion  was  not  a  political  issue. 

The  formation  of  the  MSP  in  1972  as  Turkey's  first  republi- 
can party  to  espouse  openly  Islamic  principles  inaugurated  the 
politicization  of  the  religious  issue  (see  Retreat  from  Secular- 
ism, ch.  2).  The  MSP  attracted  a  following  by  providing  an 
Islamic  defense  of  traditional  values  that  were  eroding  as  a  con- 
sequence of  the  economic  and  social  changes  the  country  had 
begun  to  experience  in  the  late  1960s.  In  effect,  religion 
became  a  vehicle  for  expressing  popular  discontent.  The 
inability  of  the  major  political  parties  to  agree  on  policies  to 
counteract  this  discontent  tended  to  enhance  the  influence  of 
minor  parties  such  as  the  MSP.  Indeed,  in  1974  the  main  expo- 
nent of  Kemalist  secularism,  the  CHP,  invited  the  MSP,  by  then 
the  third  largest  party  in  parliament,  to  join  it  in  a  coalition 
government.  Its  participation  in  the  government  provided  the 
MSP,  and  the  Islamic  movement  more  broadly,  with  an  aura  of 
political  legitimacy.  Subsequently,  the  MSP  sponsored  an  Islam- 
ist youth  movement  that  during  the  late  1970s  engaged  other 
militant  youth  groups — both  socialists  on  the  left  and  secular 
nationalists  on  the  right — in  armed  street  battles.  In  the 
mosques,  numerous  voluntary  associations  were  formed  to 
undertake  religious  studies,  devotional  prayers,  charitable 
projects,  social  services,  and  the  publication  of  journals.  Even 
the  minority  Shia  (see  Glossary)  Muslims  organized  their  own 
separate  groups  (see  The  Alevi,  ch.  2). 

The  1980  coup  only  temporarily  interrupted  the  trend 
toward  increased  religious  observance.  Initially,  the  military 
regime  arrested  Erbakan  and  other  MSP  leaders  and  put  them 
on  trial  for  politically  exploiting  religion  in  violation  of  Turkish 
law.  However,  the  senior  officers,  although  committed  to  secu- 
larism, wanted  to  use  religion  as  a  counter  to  socialist  and 
Marxist  ideologies  and  thus  refrained  from  interfering  with  the 
tarikatlar  and  other  voluntary  religious  associations.  Further- 
more, the  generals  approved  an  article  in  the  1982  constitution 
mandating  compulsory  religious  instruction  in  all  schools. 
When  political  parties  were  allowed  to  form  in  1983,  Ozal's 
Motherland  Party  welcomed  a  large  group  of  former  MSP 
members,  who  probably  were  attracted  to  the  party  because 
Ozal  and  some  of  his  relatives  had  belonged  to  the  MSP  in  the 
1970s.  One  of  Ozal's  brothers,  Korkut  Ozal,  held  an  important 


278 


Government  and  Politics 


position  in  the  Naksibendi  tarikat,  the  oldest  and  largest  orga- 
nized religious  order  in  Turkey. 

The  military  regime  was  preoccupied  with  eliminating  the 
threat  from  "communists,"  a  term  freely  applied  to  anyone  with 
socialist  ideas.  Thousands  of  persons  lost  jobs  in  state  offices, 
schools,  and  enterprises  because  they  were  perceived  as  "left- 
ists," and  leftist  organizations  virtually  disappeared.  Religiously 
motivated  persons  assumed  many  of  the  vacated  positions, 
especially  in  education,  and  Islamic  groups  filled  the  political 
vacuum  created  by  the  state's  successful  assault  on  the  left.  At 
the  same  time,  the  policies  of  neither  the  military  regime  nor 
its  civilian  successors  effectively  addressed  the  economic  and 
social  problems  that  continued  to  fuel  popular  discontent. 

Without  competition  from  the  left,  the  religious  orders  and 
the  religiously  oriented  Welfare  Party  enjoyed  almost  a  monop- 
oly on  the  mobilization  of  discontent.  One  tarikat,  the  boldly 
political  Fethullahci,  actually  tried  to  recruit  cadets  in  the  mili- 
tary academies.  By  1986  the  increasingly  vociferous  and  mili- 
tant activities  of  religious  groups  had  forced  on  the  defensive 
the  concept  of  secularism  itself — a  bedrock  of  Kemalist  princi- 
ples for  sixty  years. 

In  1987  the  military  had  become  persuaded  that  what  it 
called  "Islamic  fundamentalism"  was  a  potentially  serious 
threat  to  its  vision  of  Kemalism.  In  January  1987,  President 
Evren  publicly  denounced  Islamic  fundamentalism  as  being  as 
dangerous  as  communism.  Initially,  the  secular  political  elite, 
with  the  exception  of  the  SHP,  was  not  persuaded  by  his  argu- 
ments. Ozal,  then  prime  minister,  seemed  to  support  the 
Islamic  wing  of  his  party,  which  was  pushing  for  the  repeal  of 
the  remaining  laws  restricting  religious  practices.  The  True 
Path  Party  characterized  the  trend  toward  religious  observance 
as  a  healthy  development  and  stressed  freedom  of  practice. 
However,  as  clandestine  religious  groups  began  to  carry  out 
attacks  on  noted  secularists  in  the  late  1980s,  True  Path  Party 
leaders  became  concerned,  and  then  alarmed,  by  the  influence 
of  Islamism  (sometimes  seen  as  fundamentalism). 

The  Welfare  Party  disassociated  itself  from  violent  attacks  by 
both  organized  and  unorganized  religious  fanatics,  but  such 
attacks  increased  in  both  frequency  and  severity  in  the  1990s. 
The  most  sensational  attack  occurred  in  July  1993,  when  a  mob 
leaving  Friday  congregational  prayers  in  the  central  Anatolian 
city  of  Sivas  firebombed  a  hotel  where  Turkey's  internationally 
renowned  author,  self-proclaimed  atheist  Aziz  Nesin,  and  doz- 


279 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

ens  of  other  writers  were  staying  while  attending  a  cultural  festi- 
val. Although  Nesin  escaped  harm,  thirty-seven  persons  wrere 
killed  and  100  injured  in  that  incident.  Several  weeks  before 
the  attack,  Nesin's  newspaper,  Aydinlik,  had  published  trans- 
lated excerpts  of  British  author  Salman  Rushdie's  controversial 
1988  novel,  The  Satanic  Verses,  which  many  Muslim  religious 
leaders  had  condemned  as  blasphemous.  Following  publica- 
tion of  the  excerpts,  the  newspaper's  offices  in  Istanbul  and 
other  cities  were  attacked  by  groups  of  Islamic  militants. 

Turkey's  religious  revival  has  foreign  policy  implications 
because  the  tarikatlar tend  to  link  with  religious  groups  in  other 
Muslim  countries.  Saudi  Arabia,  for  example,  has  been  an 
important  source  of  the  extensive  financial  support  that  has 
enabled  the  tarikatlar  to  proselytize  and  to  operate  charitable 
programs  that  enhance  their  political  influence.  Turkish  politi- 
cal leaders  also  fear  the  influence  of  neighboring  Iran,  where 
an  Islamic  government  replaced  the  secular  regime  in  1979, 
and  since  1987  have  tended  to  blame  incidents  of  religious  vio- 
lence on  Iranian  agents.  However,  Turkey's  religious  activists 
are  Sunni  (see  Glossary)  Muslims  who  tend  to  display  suspicion 
and  prejudice  toward  Shia  Muslims — who  make  up  more  than 
90  percent  of  the  Iranian  population — and  there  has  been 
scant  evidence  to  support  the  existence  of  significant  ties 
between  the  Turkish  Sunni  and  Iran. 

Minorities 

At  least  15  percent  of  Turkey's  population  consists  of  ethnic 
and  religious  minorities.  The  Kurds  are  the  minority  group 
with  the  greatest  impact  on  national  politics.  Since  the  1930s, 
Kurds  have  resisted  government  efforts  to  assimilate  them  forc- 
ibly, including  an  official  ban  on  speaking  or  writing  Kurdish. 
Since  1984  Kurdish  resistance  to  Turkification  has  encom- 
passed both  a  peaceful  political  struggle  to  obtain  basic  civil 
rights  for  Kurds  within  Turkey  and  a  violent  armed  struggle  to 
obtain  a  separate  Kurdish  state.  The  leaders  of  the  nonviolent 
struggle  have  worked  within  the  political  system  for  the  recog- 
nition of  Kurdish  cultural  rights,  including  the  right  to  speak 
Kurdish  in  public  and  to  read,  write,  and  publish  in  Kurdish. 
Prior  to  1991,  these  Kurds  operated  within  the  national  politi- 
cal parties,  in  particular  the  SHP,  the  party  most  sympathetic  to 
their  goal  of  full  equality  for  all  citizens  of  Turkey.  President 
Ozal's  1991  call  for  a  more  liberal  policy  toward  Kurds  and  for 
the  repeal  of  the  ban  on  speaking  Kurdish  raised  the  hopes  of 


280 


Government  and  Politics 


Kurdish  politicians.  Following  the  parliamentary  elections  of 
October  1991,  several  Kurdish  deputies,  including  Hatip  Dicle, 
Feridun  Yazar,  and  Leyla  Zayna,  formed  the  HEP,  a  party  with 
the  explicit  goal  of  campaigning  within  the  National  Assembly 
for  laws  guaranteeing  equal  rights  for  the  Kurds. 

Turkey's  other  leaders  were  not  as  willing  as  Ozal  to  recog- 
nize Kurdish  distinctiveness,  and  only  two  months  after  his 
death  in  April  1993,  the  Constitutional  Court  issued  its  deci- 
sion declaring  the  HEP  illegal.  In  anticipation  of  this  outcome, 
the  Kurdish  deputies  had  resigned  from  the  HEP  only  days 
before  and  formed  a  new  organization,  the  Democracy  Party 
(Demokrasi  Partisi — DEP).  The  DEP's  objective  was  similar  to 
that  of  its  predecessor:  to  promote  civil  rights  for  all  citizens  of 
Turkey.  When  the  DEP  was  banned  in  June  1994,  Kurdish  dep- 
uties formed  the  new  People's  Democracy  Party  (Halkin 
Demokrasi  Partisi — HADEP). 

The  PKK  initiated  armed  struggle  against  the  state  in  1984 
with  attacks  on  gendarmerie  posts  in  the  southeast.  The  PKK's 
leader,  Abdullah  Ocalan,  had  formed  the  group  in  the  late 
1970s  while  a  student  in  Ankara.  Prior  to  the  1980  coup, 
Ocalan  fled  to  Lebanon,  via  Syria,  where  he  continued  to  main- 
tain his  headquarters  in  1994.  Until  October  1992,  Ocalan's 
brother,  Osman,  had  supervised  PKK  training  camps  in  the 
mountains  separating  northern  Iraq  from  Turkey's  Hakkari 
and  Mardin  provinces.  It  was  from  these  camps  that  PKK  guer- 
rillas launched  their  raids  into  Turkey.  The  main  characteristic 
of  PKK  attacks  was  the  use  of  indiscriminate  violence,  and  PKK 
guerrillas  did  not  hesitate  to  kill  Kurds  whom  they  considered 
collaborators.  Targeted  in  particular  were  the  government's 
paid  militia,  known  as  village  guards,  and  schoolteachers 
accused  of  promoting  forced  assimilation.  The  extreme  vio- 
lence of  the  PKK's  methods  enabled  the  government  to  portray 
the  PKK  as  a  terrorist  organization  and  to  justify  its  own  poli- 
cies, which  included  the  destruction  of  about  850  border  vil- 
lages and  the  forced  removal  of  their  populations  to  western 
Turkey. 

In  March  1993,  the  PKK  dropped  its  declared  objective  of 
creating  an  independent  state  of  Kurdistan  in  the  southeastern 
provinces  that  had  Kurdish  majorities.  Its  new  goal  was  to 
resolve  the  Kurdish  problem  within  a  democratic  and  federal 
system.  The  loss  of  PKK  guerrilla  camps  in  northern  Iraq  in 
October  1992,  following  defeat  in  a  major  confrontation  with 
Iraqi  Kurdish  forces  supported  by  Turkish  military  interven- 


281 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

tion,  probably  influenced  this  tactical  change.  At  the  same 
time,  Ocalan  announced  a  unilateral,  albeit  temporary,  cease- 
fire in  the  PKK's  war  with  Turkish  security  forces.  The  latter 
decision  may  also  have  reflected  the  influence  of  Kurdish  civil- 
ian leaders,  who  had  been  urging  an  end  to  the  violence  in 
order  to  test  Ozal's  commitment  to  equal  rights.  Whether  there 
were  realistic  prospects  in  the  spring  of  1993  for  a  political 
solution  to  the  conflict  in  southeast  Turkey  may  never  be 
known.  Ozal  suffered  a  fatal  heart  attack  in  April,  and  his  suc- 
cessor, Demirel,  did  not  appear  inclined  to  challenge  the  mili- 
tary, whose  position  continued  to  be  that  elimination  of  the 
PKK  was  the  appropriate  way  to  pacify  the  region.  Fighting 
between  security  forces  and  PKK  guerrillas,  estimated  to  num- 
ber as  many  as  15,000,  resumed  by  June  1993. 

In  early  1995,  Turkey's  other  minorities — Arabs,  Armenians, 
other  Caucasian  peoples,  Circassians,  Georgians,  Greeks,  and 
Jews — tended  toward  political  quiescence.  Arabs,  who  are  con- 
centrated in  the  southeast  to  the  west  of  the  Kurds  and  north  of 
the  border  with  Syria,  had  demonstrated  over  language  and 
religious  issues  in  the  1980s.  Because  most  of  Turkey's  Arabs 
belong  to  Islam's  Alawi  branch,  whose  adherents  also  include 
the  leading  politicians  of  Syria,  Ankara's  often  tense  relations 
with  Syria  tend  to  be  further  complicated. 

The  Armenian  issue  also  adds  tension  to  foreign  affairs.  The 
60,000  Armenians  estimated  to  be  living  in  Turkey  in  the  mid- 
1990s  had  refrained  from  attracting  any  political  attention  to 
their  community.  However,  along  with  Armenians  residing  in 
Lebanon,  France,  Iran,  and  the  United  States,  the  Republic  of 
Armenia,  which  borders  Turkey's  easternmost  province  of 
Kars,  has  embarrassed  Turkey  with  highly  publicized  annual 
commemorations  of  the  Armenian  genocide  of  1915-16 — 
which  the  Turkish  government  denies  ever  occurred  (see 
World  War  I,  ch.  1).  The  Turkish  government  also  condemns  as 
harmful  to  overall  relations  the  periodic  efforts  by  the  United 
States  Congress  and  the  parliaments  of  European  states  to  pass 
resolutions  condemning  the  mass  killings.  Various  clandestine 
Armenian  groups — of  which  the  most  prominent  is  the  Arme- 
nian Secret  Army  for  the  Liberation  of  Armenia  (ASALA) — 
have  claimed  responsibility  for  assassinations  of  Turkish  diplo- 
matic personnel  stationed  in  the  Middle  East  and  Europe. 
Such  assassinations  have  continued  to  occur  in  the  1990s.  Uni- 
dentified Turkish  government  officials  frequently  have  leaked 
reports  to  the  news  media  accusing  Armenia,  Lebanon,  and 


282 


Government  and  Politics 


Syria  of  allowing  Armenian  terrorists  to  receive  training  and 
support  within  their  borders. 

Mass  Media 

The  Turkish  news  media  consist  of  a  state-operated  radio 
and  television  broadcasting  system  and  privately  owned  press 
and  broadcasting  operations.  Newspapers  are  not  subject  to 
prior  censorship,  but  a  1983  press  law  restricts  them  from 
reporting  information  deemed  to  fall  within  the  sphere  of 
national  security  and  prohibits  the  publication  of  papers  that 
promote  "separatism."  Violations  of  these  restrictions  result  in 
the  closing  down  of  newspapers  and  the  prosecution  of  jour- 
nalists. Except  for  official  press  releases,  most  reports  on  mili- 
tary operations  in  southeastern  Turkey  and  almost  all  accounts 
of  public  speeches  calling  for  Kurdish  cultural  rights  prompt 
state  prosecutors  to  come  before  security  courts  calling  for 
judicial  investigations  of  possible  press  law  violations.  Amnesty 
International  has  documented  the  detention  of  scores  of  jour- 
nalists who  wrote  independent  articles  about  conditions  in  the 
southeast  during  1991-92;  in  some  instances,  journalists  were 
injured  during  interrogations  or  held  for  prolonged  periods 
without  access  to  attorneys.  Twenty-eight  journalists  were  tried 
and  sentenced  to  prison  in  the  first  six  months  of  1993  alone. 
Many  of  them  worked  for  the  Istanbul  daily  Ozgur  Gundem, 
which  has  regularly  featured  stories  on  conditions  in  the  Kurd- 
ish areas  and  has  carried  interviews  with  both  PKK  guerrillas 
and  Turkish  soldiers.  In  an  apparent  attempt  to  halt  publica- 
tion of  such  articles,  the  government  arrested  the  newspaper's 
editor  in  chief,  Davut  Karadag,  in  July  1993  and  charged  him 
with  spreading  separatist  propaganda.  Subsequently,  editors  at 
Medya  Gunesi,  Aydinlik,  and  other  newspapers  were  detained  on 
similar  charges. 

The  publication  of  materials  thought  to  offend  public  mor- 
als is  also  grounds  for  suspending  a  periodical  or  confiscating  a 
book.  The  Censor's  Board  on  Obscene  Publications  has 
responsibility  for  reviewing  potentially  offensive  material  and 
deciding  on  appropriate  action.  The  weekly  Aktuel  frequently 
questions  the  value  of,  and  need  for,  such  a  board  in  a  democ- 
racy, using  biting  satire  to  deliver  its  message.  In  1993  the  edi- 
tor of  the  weekly  and  one  of  its  freelance  columnists  were 
arrested  and  charged  with  insulting  the  board. 


283 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Newspapers  and  Periodicals 

In  1994  there  were  more  than  thirty  daily  newspapers  in 
Turkey.  The  mass-circulation  dailies  are  based  in  Istanbul  and 
are  distributed  nationally.  These  include  the  country's  largest 
newspaper,  Hitrriyet  (Freedom),  which  has  a  circulation  of 
more  than  850,000,  and  three  other  papers,  each  with  daily  cir- 
culations ranging  from  200,000  to  300,000:  Giinaydin  (Good 
Morning),  Tercuman  (Interpreter),  and  Milliyet  (Nationality).  A 
smaller  paper,  Cumhuriyet  (Republic),  is  influential  because  it  is 
read  widely  by  the  country's  economic  and  political  elite.  In  all, 
more  than  a  dozen  dailies  are  published  in  Istanbul.  Nine  dai- 
lies are  published  in  Ankara  and  three  in  Izmir.  Other  major 
cities,  including  Adana,  Bursa,  Diyarbakir,  Gaziantep,  Konya, 
and  Mersin,  have  at  least  one  local  daily  newspaper.  In  addition 
to  the  newspapers,  twenty  weeklies  and  a  variety  of  biweekly, 
monthly,  bimonthly,  and  quarterly  journals  also  are  published. 

The  main  news  agency  in  Turkey  is  the  official  Anadolu 
Ajansi  (Anatolian  Agency),  founded  by  Atatiirk  in  1920.  Its  pri- 
mary function  is  to  issue  news  bulletins  and  printed  informa- 
tion within  the  country  and  for  distribution  abroad.  As  do  most 
newspapers,  Turkish  radio  and  television  depend  on  the 
agency  as  a  primary  source  of  domestic  news.  In  1994  it  had 
regional  offices  in  Turkey's  major  cities  as  well  as  correspon- 
dents throughout  the  country.  It  also  had  foreign  correspon- 
dents in  all  major  world  cities.  In  addition  to  the  Anatolian 
Agency,  several  private  agencies  serve  the  press. 

Radio  and  Television 

The  government  of  Turkey  began  radio  broadcasting  in 
1927.  Atatiirk  and  his  colleagues  perceived  radio  as  a  means  to 
promote  modernization  and  nationalism  and  thus  created  a 
Bureau  of  the  Press  Directorate  to  oversee  programming  and 
ensure  that  it  served  national  goals.  In  1964  the  government 
established  the  Turkish  Radio  and  Television  Corporation 
(Tiirkiye  Radyo  Televizyon  Kurumu — TRT)  to  expand  radio 
facilities  and  develop  public  television.  Subsequently,  the  trans- 
mission power  of  radio  stations  greatly  increased,  as  did  the 
number  of  licensed  receivers.  (The  government  required  pur- 
chase of  a  license  for  ownership  of  radios,  and  later  of  televi- 
sions.) By  1994  almost  the  entire  nation  had  radio  coverage, 
with  thirty-six  transmitters  beaming  a  total  power  of  5,500  kilo- 
watts to  an  estimated  10  million  receivers.  TRT  also  broadcasts 


284 


Government  and  Politics 


programs  abroad  in  Turkish  and  in  several  foreign  languages, 
including  Arabic,  Bulgarian,  Greek,  and  Persian. 

Television  developed  more  slowly  than  radio,  mainly 
because  the  government  considered  it  a  luxury.  Television 
broadcasting  began  through  a  technical-assistance  agreement 
between  Turkey  and  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West 
Germany).  With  the  aid  of  the  equipment  and  technical  per- 
sonnel provided  under  this  agreement,  TRT  inaugurated  the 
country's  first  public  television  station  in  Ankara  in  1968.  Grad- 
ually new  stations  were  opened  in  Istanbul,  Izmir,  and  other  cit- 
ies. Investment  in  television  facilities  accelerated  after  1972, 
and  during  the  following  decade  television  replaced  radio  as 
the  country's  most  important  mass  medium.  By  1994  the  esti- 
mated number  of  television  sets — 10  million — equaled  the 
number  of  radio  receivers. 

TRT  had  a  constitutionally  mandated  monopoly  on  radio 
and  television  broadcasting  prior  to  1993.  It  financed  its  opera- 
tions through  limited  allocations  it  received  from  the  govern- 
ment's general  budget  and  income  derived  from  radio  and 
television  license  fees.  TRT  news  presentations  and  documen- 
taries tended  to  avoid  controversy;  television  viewers  often  criti- 
cized the  programs  as  dull.  Dissatisfaction  with  public 
television  prompted  proposals  beginning  in  the  late  1980s  to 
amend  the  constitution  to  permit  private,  commercial  broad- 
casting. Opposition  to  private  broadcasting  came  from  the  mil- 
itary and  other  groups  that  feared  loss  of  government  control 
over  programming.  It  was  not  until  1993  that  the  National 
Assembly  approved  legislation  to  authorize  private  radio  and 
television  in  tandem  with  public  broadcasting.  Even  before 
their  legalization,  however,  private  stations  had  begun  to 
broadcast  programs,  many  of  which  disturbed  officials  in  the 
national  security  bureaucracy.  For  example,  in  the  summer  of 
1993  the  State  Security  Court  opened  an  investigation  into  a 
public  affairs  program  of  a  private  Istanbul  channel,  charging 
that  the  program  had  spread  separatist  propaganda  by  includ- 
ing Kurdish  guests. 

Foreign  Relations 

Turkey  began  reevaluating  its  foreign  policy  in  1991,  when 
the  United  States-led  war  against  Iraq  and  the  collapse  of  the 
Soviet  Union  totally  upset  patterns  of  international  relations 
that  had  been  relatively  consistent  for  more  than  forty  years. 
Both  of  these  developments  intimately  affected  Turkey  because 


285 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

the  former  Soviet  Union  was  its  neighbor  to  the  north  and  east, 
and  Iraq  its  neighbor  to  the  south.  Political  instability  has 
plagued  both  these  regions  since  1991,  causing  some  Turkish 
national  security  analysts  to  fear  possible  negative  conse- 
quences for  their  own  country.  However,  other  Turks  believe 
that  the  international  changes  since  1991  offer  their  country  a 
unique  opportunity  to  reassert  its  historical  role  as  a  bridge 
between  two  regions  in  which  it  has  had  only  a  marginal  pres- 
ence since  1918. 

Dissolution  of  the  Soviet  Union 

Since  the  end  of  World  War  II,  Turkey  had  regarded  the 
Soviet  Union,  the  superpower  with  which  it  shared  a  590-kilo- 
meter frontier,  as  its  principal  enemy.  Fear  of  Soviet  intentions 
was  powerful  enough  to  persuade  Turkish  leaders  to  join  the 
United  States-European  collective  defense  agreement,  the 
North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO),  in  1952.  Partici- 
pation in  NATO  made  Turkey  a  partisan  on  the  side  of  the 
West  in  the  Cold  War  that  dominated  international  politics  for 
more  than  forty  years.  Turkish  suspicions  of  the  Soviet  Union 
gradually  eased  during  the  era  of  detente  that  began  in  the 
1960s,  paving  the  way  for  several  bilateral  economic  coopera- 
tion agreements  in  the  1970s.  However,  the  Soviet  invasion  of 
Afghanistan  in  1979  revived  Turkish  concerns  about  Soviet 
expansionism  and  led  to  a  cooling  of  relations  that  lasted  more 
than  five  years.  Beginning  in  the  mid-1980s,  Turkish  fears  again 
eased.  Ankara  and  Moscow  concluded  a  number  of  agree- 
ments, including  plans  for  a  pipeline  to  carry  natural  gas  from 
Soviet  gas  fields  to  Turkey.  Economic  and  diplomatic  ties 
between  the  two  countries  were  being  expanded  when  the 
Soviet  Union  dissolved  into  fifteen  independent  nations. 

For  Turkey  the  practical  consequence  of  the  Soviet  Union's 
demise  was  the  replacement  of  one  large,  powerful,  and  gener- 
ally predictable  neighbor  with  five  smaller  near  neighbors  char- 
acterized by  domestic  instability  and  troubling  foreign  policies. 
Like  most  states,  Turkey  perceives  Russia  as  the  principal  inher- 
itor of  Soviet  power  and  influence.  Turkish  officials  likewise 
share  in  the  widespread  uncertainty  over  Russia's  role  in  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  (CIS),  formed  at  the 
end  of  1991,  and  thus  try  to  avoid  policies  that  might  antago- 
nize a  traditional  adversary.  Diplomatic  contacts  with  Russia 
and  the  CIS  have  focused  on  the  renegotiation  of  numerous 
Soviet-era  economic  and  technical  cooperation  agreements 


286 


Government  and  Politics 


that  were  in  force  when  the  Soviet  Union  was  dissolved.  Turkey 
also  has  initiated  multilateral  discussions  with  the  five  states 
that  now  border  the  Black  Sea — Russia,  Georgia,  Ukraine,  Bul- 
garia, and  Romania — on  an  economic  cooperation  project 
originally  proposed  before  the  demise  of  the  Soviet  Union. 
The  inaugural  meetings  of  the  new  group  called  for  ambitious 
plans  to  increase  trade  among  member  states,  encourage  labor 
mobility,  and  establish  a  development  bank. 

In  Transcaucasia  and  Central  Asia,  regions  where  Turkey  is 
most  keen  to  project  its  influence,  Ankara  has  tended  to  defer 
to  Moscow  whenever  such  a  course  seems  prudent.  Turkey's 
efforts  to  make  its  presence  felt  in  nearby  Transcaucasia  have 
been  limited  not  so  much  by  Russia  as  by  the  political  realities 
that  emerged  in  Transcaucasia  itself  after  December  1991.  All 
three  new  countries  in  the  region — Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  and 
Georgia — share  land  borders  with  Turkey;  thus  political  and 
economic  leaders  view  them  as  natural  partners  for  trade  and 
development  projects.  Both  President  Ozal's  Motherland  Party 
and  Prime  Minister  Demirel's  True  Path  Party  embraced  the 
idea  of  expanding  ties  with  Azerbaijan,  an  oil-producing  coun- 
try whose  people  speak  a  Turkic  language  closely  related  to 
Anatolian  Turkish. 

Almost  all  the  major  parties  have  expressed  reservations 
about  an  independent  Armenia,  probably  on  account  of  the 
historical  bitterness  between  Armenians  and  Turks.  In  the  mid- 
1990s,  the  revival  of  Ottoman-era  animosities  seemed  inevita- 
ble because  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan  had  become  independent 
while  fighting  an  undeclared  war  over  the  Azerbaijani  province 
of  Nagorno-Karabakh,  whose  ethnic  Armenian  majority  has 
been  trying  to  secede.  Turkey  adopted  an  officially  neutral 
position  in  the  conflict,  although  its  sympathies  lie  with  Azer- 
baijan. Popular  opinion  against  Armenia  became  especially 
intense  in  1992  and  1993,  when  military  successes  by  Armenian 
forces  caused  tens  of  thousands  of  Azerbaijani  refugees  to 
enter  Turkey.  Turkey  responded  by  applying  temporary  eco- 
nomic pressure  on  Armenia,  such  as  closing  the  transborder 
road  to  traffic  bringing  goods  into  the  landlocked  country  and 
cutting  Turkish  electrical  power  to  Armenian  towns.  However, 
Turkey's  membership  in  NATO  and  the  Conference  on  Secu- 
rity and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (from  January  1995,  the  Orga- 
nization for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe),  its  concerns 
about  overall  regional  stability — adjacent  Georgia  was  engulfed 
in  its  own  civil  war  in  1993 — and  fears  of  unpredictable  Iranian 


287 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

and  Russian  reactions  all  combined  to  restrain  Turkey  from 
providing  direct  military  assistance  to  Azerbaijan. 

Disappointment  over  the  inadequacy  of  Turkish  support  was 
one  of  the  factors  that  prompted  the  1993  coup  against  Azer- 
baijan's staunchly  pro-Turkish  government.  This  unexpected 
political  change  in  Baku  represented  a  major  blow  to  Turkish 
policy.  The  new  regime  in  Azerbaijan  was  not  only  cool  toward 
Turkey  but  also  determined  to  cultivate  friendlier  relations 
with  Iran  and  Russia.  These  developments  provoked  opposi- 
tion deputies  in  Turkey's  National  Assembly  to  accuse  the 
(filler  government  of  having  "lost"  Azerbaijan.  As  of  late  Janu- 
ary 1995,  Ankara's  political  influence  in  Baku  still  was  limited, 
although  Turkey's  overall  cultural  influence  in  Azerbaijan 
seemed  strong. 

Turkey's  policy  in  Central  Asia  has  proved  more  successful 
than  its  Transcaucasian  policy.  As  with  Azerbaijan,  a  feeling  of 
pan-Turkic  solidarity  has  prompted  Turkish  interest  in  expand- 
ing ties  with  the  countries  of  Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan,  Turkmen- 
istan, and  Uzbekistan.  In  April  1992,  in  his  first  year  as  prime 
minister,  Demirel  traveled  to  the  region  to  promote  Turkey  as  a 
political  and  developmental  model  for  the  Central  Asian  states. 
He  explicitly  represented  Turkey  not  only  as  a  successful  exam- 
ple of  what  an  independent  Turkic  country  could  achieve  but 
also  as  a  more  appropriate  model  than  the  Islamic  alternative 
offered  by  Iran,  which  he  perceived  as  Turkey's  main  rival  for 
influence  in  the  region.  Subsequently,  Turkey  concluded 
numerous  cultural,  economic,  and  technical  aid  agreements 
with  the  Central  Asian  states,  including  non-Turkic  Tajikistan. 
Turkey  also  sponsored  full  membership  for  the  Central  Asian 
countries  and  Azerbaijan  in  the  Economic  Cooperation  Orga- 
nization, a  regional  trade  pact  whose  original  members  were 
Iran,  Pakistan,  and  Turkey.  In  practice,  however,  Turkey  lacks 
adequate  economic  resources  to  play  the  pivotal  role  in  Central 
Asia  to  which  it  aspires.  Because  Iran  also  has  insufficient  capi- 
tal for  aid  to  and  investment  in  the  region,  the  anticipated 
rivalry  between  Iran  and  Turkey  had  failed  by  the  mid-1990s  to 
develop  into  a  serious  contest.  By  the  time  President  Ozal  fol- 
lowed Demirel's  trip  with  his  own  tour  of  the  region  in  April 
1993,  Turkey  recognized,  albeit  reluctantly,  that  Russia,  rather 
than  Turkey  or  Iran,  had  emerged  as  the  dominant  political 
force  in  Central  Asia,  and  that  this  situation  would  prevail 
indefinitely.  Nevertheless,  the  new  countries  have  professed 
friendship  toward  Turkey  and  welcomed  its  overtures.  In 


288 


Government  and  Politics 


response,  Turkey  has  reoriented  its  policies  to  focus  on 
strengthening  bilateral  cultural  ties  and  encouraging  Turkish 
private  entrepreneurs  to  invest  in  the  region.  As  of  early  1995, 
Turkey  enjoyed  close  diplomatic  relations  with  the  four  Turkic 
republics  of  Central  Asia  and  good  relations  with  Persian- 
speaking  Tajikistan. 

Closely  related  to  the  dissolution  of  the  Soviet  Union  was 
the  collapse  of  the  communist  regimes  in  Eastern  Europe.  This 
development  had  positive  consequences  in  terms  of  Turkey's 
relations  with  Bulgaria,  which  borders  the  Turkish  province  of 
Thrace.  Relations  between  Turkey  and  Bulgaria  had  been 
badly  strained  between  1985  and  1989  as  a  result  of  Bulgaria's 
campaign  of  forcibly  assimilating  its  Turkish  minority,  esti- 
mated at  900,000  and  comprising  approximately  10  percent  of 
the  country's  total  population.  Efforts  by  Bulgaria's  ethnic 
Turks  to  protest  government  policies  requiring  them  to  change 
their  Turkish  and  Muslim  names  to  Bulgarian  and  Christian 
ones,  end  all  Islamic  teaching  and  practices,  and  stop  speaking 
Turkish  in  public  had  led  to  increasingly  severe  repression. 
This  repression  culminated  in  the  summer  of  1989  with  a  mass 
exodus  of  an  estimated  320,000  Turkish  Bulgarians,  who  fled 
across  the  border  into  Turkey  during  a  seven-week  period  in 
July  and  August.  The  exodus  overwhelmed  Turkey's  refugee 
facilities  and  provoked  an  international  crisis  as  well  as  an 
internal  crisis  within  Bulgaria  that  contributed  to  the  fall  of  the 
communist  government.  Subsequently,  Bulgaria's  new  demo- 
cratic government  repealed  the  controversial  assimilation 
decrees  and  invited  those  who  had  fled  to  return  home.  Rela- 
tions between  Turkey  and  Bulgaria  steadily  improved  during 
the  early  1990s,  and  the  two  countries  have  concluded  several 
bilateral  trade  and  technical  assistance  agreements.  A  similar 
spirit  of  cooperation  was  evident  in  the  agreements  signed  with 
other  East  European  countries,  in  particular  Hungary  and 
Romania. 

In  contrast  to  the  generally  positive  evolution  of  relations 
with  Bulgaria,  the  international  politics  surrounding  the  disin- 
tegration of  Yugoslavia  proved  frustrating  for  Turkish  diplo- 
macy. The  plight  of  the  Muslim  population  of  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  during  the  civil  war  that  followed  Bosnia's  1992 
declaration  of  independence  aroused  popular  sympathy  in 
Turkey  and  support  for  interventionist  policies  to  help  the  Bos- 
nian Muslims.  Although  the  government  supported  the  United 
Nations  (UN)  peacekeeping  force  in  Bosnia  and  an  auxiliary 


289 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

NATO  military  role,  Ankara  criticized  these  efforts  as  inade- 
quate. In  the  mid-1990s,  Turkey  favored  firmer  measures 
against  Bosnian  Serbs  and  the  government  of  Serbia,  which 
Turkey,  like  other  countries,  had  accused  of  providing  military 
aid  and  other  assistance  to  the  Bosnian  Serbs.  However,  as  of 
early  1995,  Turkey  was  not  prepared  to  take  unilateral  steps  in 
Bosnia  that  might  antagonize  its  NATO  partners. 

The  Middle  East 

Turkey  shares  borders  with  three  major  Middle  Eastern 
countries:  Iran,  Iraq,  and  Syria.  Turkey  ruled  much  of  the 
region  during  the  Ottoman  Empire,  but  between  1945  and 
1990  Turkish  leaders  consciously  avoided  involvement  in  vari- 
ous Middle  Eastern  conflicts.  President  Ozal  broke  with  that 
tradition  in  1990  when  he  sided  with  the  United  States-led  coa- 
lition confronting  Iraq  following  its  invasion  and  annexation  of 
Kuwait.  To  comply  with  the  economic  sanctions  that  the  UN 
imposed  on  Iraq,  Ozal  closed  down  the  two  pipelines  used  to 
transport  Iraqi  oil  through  Turkey  to  the  Mediterranean  Sea. 
Although  Turkey  did  not  formally  join  the  military  coalition 
that  fought  against  Iraq,  it  deployed  about  150,000  troops 
along  its  border  with  Iraq,  which  caused  Baghdad  to  divert  an 
equivalent  number  of  forces  from  the  south  to  the  north  of  the 
country.  Furthermore,  Turkey  authorized  United  States  air- 
craft to  use  the  military  air  base  at  Incirlik  for  raids  over  Iraq.  A 
likely  motive  for  Turkish  support  of  the  war  against  Iraq  was  a 
desire  to  strengthen  ties  with  the  United  States  and  other 
NATO  allies  at  a  time  of  considerable  uncertainty — at  least  in 
Turkey — about  post-Cold  War  strategic  relations. 

The  Persian  Gulf  War's  main  consequence  for  Turkey  was 
the  internationalization  of  the  Kurdish  issue.  Following  Iraq's 
defeat  by  the  United  States-led  coalition  at  the  end  of  February 
1991,  Iraq's  Kurdish  minority,  which  constituted  approximately 
15  percent  of  the  .approximately  19  million  population, 
rebelled  against  the  government  of  Saddam  Husayn.  Govern- 
ment forces  repressed  the  rebellion  within  three  weeks,  precip- 
itating a  mass  exodus  of  almost  the  entire  Kurdish  population 
of  northern  Iraq  toward  the  Iranian  and  Turkish  borders. 
Unable  to  deal  with  the  refugee  flood,  Turkey  closed  its  bor- 
ders in  April  after  more  than  400,000  Kurds  had  fled  into 
Hakkari  and  Mardin  provinces.  Turkish  soldiers  prevented 
about  500,000  more  Kurdish  refugees  on  the  Iraqi  side  of  the 
border  from  crossing  over  to  Turkey,  forcing  them  to  remain  in 


290 


Government  and  Politics 


makeshift  camps;  an  additional  1  million  other  Kurds  fled  into 
Iran.  The  humanitarian  crisis  and  the  international  publicity 
surrounding  it  posed  a  major  dilemma  for  Turkey,  which  was 
reluctant  to  absorb  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Kurdish  refu- 
gees. Furthermore,  Turkey  opposed  the  creation  of  permanent 
refugee  camps,  believing  such  camps  would  become  breeding 
grounds  for  militant  nationalism,  as  had  happened  in  the  Pal- 
estinian refugee  camps  established  during  the  war  that  fol- 
lowed Israel's  creation  in  1948. 

Turkey's  preferred  solution  to  the  Kurdish  refugee  crisis  has 
been  for  the  Kurds  to  return  to  their  homes  in  Iraq  with  guar- 
antees for  their  safety  within  a  political  environment  that  would 
encourage  their  integration  into  a  united  Iraq.  Negotiations 
with  Britain,  France,  and  the  United  States  produced  an  agree- 
ment in  June  1991  to  establish  an  interim  protected  zone  in 
northern  Iraq  in  which  all  Iraqi  military  activities  would  be  pro- 
hibited. Turkey  would  permit  its  allies  to  use  the  Incirlik  Air 
Base  for  armed  reconnaissance  flights  over  the  protected  zone. 
The  interim  period  originally  was  intended  to  last  for  six 
months  but  could  be  extended  for  an  additional  six  months  at 
the  discretion  of  the  National  Assembly.  Although  the  agree- 
ment created  a  de  facto  safe  haven  in  Iraq's  three  northern 
provinces  and  prompted  a  majority  of  the  Kurdish  refugees  to 
return  home,  it  did  not  resolve  the  political  problem  between 
the  refugees  and  the  Iraqi  government.  On  the  contrary,  Bagh- 
dad responded  by  imposing  a  blockade  on  the  north,  effec- 
tively making  the  Kurds  economically  dependent  on  Iran  and 
Turkey.  The  Western  powers  saw  Iraq's  attitude  as  justifying 
prolongation  of  the  safe-haven  agreement;  as  of  January  1995, 
it  was  still  in  force. 

Turkey  has  opposed  the  creation  of  an  autonomous  Kurdish 
government  in  northern  Iraq.  However,  Iraq's  intransigence 
toward  the  UN  after  the  Persian  Gulf  War  and  the  determina- 
tion of  the  United  States  to  limit  its  involvement  in  the  safe- 
haven  zone  to  air  patrols  made  the  formation  of  a  local  admin- 
istration inevitable.  Turkey  reluctantly  acquiesced  after  Iraqi 
Kurdish  leaders  reassured  Ankara  that  an  autonomous  govern- 
ment would  not  pursue  independence  for  the  Kurds  but  would 
cooperate  with  all  Iraqi  opposition  groups  to  create  a  demo- 
cratic alternative  to  Saddam  Husayn's  regime.  Following  elec- 
tions for  a  representative  regional  assembly  in  May  1992,  an 
autonomous  government  claiming  to  operate  in  keeping  with 
the  Iraqi  constitution  was  established  at  Irbil.  Turkey  has 


291 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

accepted  this  government  as  the  de  facto  authority  in  northern 
Iraq,  but  has  not  recognized  it  as  a  de  jure  provincial  govern- 
ment. Turkey  has  made  its  continued  cooperation  with  this 
autonomous  government  contingent  on  the  Kurds'  support  of 
Iraq's  territorial  integrity  and  their  assistance  in  controlling 
PKK  camps  in  northern  Iraq. 

The  Kurdish  issue  also  assumed  an  important  role  in  Tur- 
key's relations  with  both  Iran  and  Syria  beginning  in  1991. 
Ankara  was  concerned  that  Damascus  and  Tehran  might 
exploit  the  Kurdish  issue  to  put  pressure  on  Turkey  to  compro- 
mise on  other  issues  over  which  there  were  deep  disagree- 
ments. For  example,  although  Turkey  had  enjoyed  relatively 
close  political  and  diplomatic  relations  with  Iran  for  more  than 
fifty  years  following  the  establishment  of  the  Republic  of  Tur- 
key in  1923,  these  ties  were  strained  after  1979  when  the  Ira- 
nian Revolution  brought  to  power  an  Islamic  theocratic  regime 
that  frequently  cites  secular  governments  such  as  Turkey's  as  an 
evil  that  Muslims  should  resist.  Although  bilateral  trade 
remained  important  to  both  countries  throughout  the  1980s 
and  early  1990s,  their  economic  ties  have  not  prevented  the 
regular  eruption  of  tension.  One  source  of  intermittent  fric- 
tion has  been  the  presence  in  Turkey  of  thousands  of  Iranians 
who  fled  their  country  during  the  1980s  because  they  opposed 
the  religious  government,  preferred  not  to  live  under  its  puri- 
tanical legal  codes,  or  wanted  to  evade  military  service  during 
the  Iran-Iraq  War  (1980-88).  Tehran  has  periodically  protested 
that  Ankara  allows  "terrorists"  (i.e.,  members  of  various  Iranian 
opposition  groups)  to  reside  in  Turkey.  Turkish  security  offi- 
cials in  turn  suspect  that  Iranian  diplomats  in  Turkey  have 
been  involved  in  assassinations  of  Iranian  opposition  leaders 
and  also  have  assisted  some  of  the  militant  Turkish  Islamists 
who  began  resorting  to  violence  in  the  late  1980s.  With  respect 
to  international  concerns,  Turkey  resents  Iran's  criticism  of  its 
membership  in  NATO,  distrusts  Iran's  alliance  with  Syria  and 
its  cooperation  with  Armenia,  and  perceives  Iran  as  a  competi- 
tor for  influence  in  Azerbaijan  and  Central  Asia.  Above  all, 
Turkish  leaders  believe  that  Iran  supports  the  PKK  and  even 
provides  sanctuary  and  bases  for  it  in  the  area  of  northwest 
Iran  that  borders  Kars,  Agri,  Van,  and  Hakkari  provinces. 

Turkish  suspicions  of  Iranian  support  for  the  PKK  probably 
originated  in  1987,  when  Iran  strongly  protested  Turkey's 
bombing  of  Iraqi  Kurdish  villages  that  Ankara  claimed  were 
bases  for  PKK  guerrillas.  At  the  time  Iran  condemned  this  vio- 


292 


Government  and  Politics 


lation  of  Iraqi  sovereignty,  Iran  and  Iraq  were  at  war,  with  Ira- 
nian forces  occupying  parts  of  southern  Iraq.  Iran's  protest  may 
have  been  prompted  by  the  fact  that  the  area  Turkey  bombed 
was  controlled  by  an  Iraqi  Kurdish  opposition  group  to  which 
Iran  was  allied.  This  group  not  only  helped  Iran  by  fighting 
against  Saddam  Husayn's  regime  but  also  cooperated  with  Iran 
to  suppress  Iranian  Kurdish  opposition.  From  Turkey's  per- 
spective, however,  this  same  Kurdish  group  was  too  friendly 
toward  the  PKK. 

This  complex  intertwining  of  domestic  and  international 
Kurdish  politics  continued  to  cause  misunderstanding  between 
Turkey  and  Iran  for  more  than  five  years.  However,  beginning 
in  1992,  Turkish  and  Iranian  views  on  the  Kurdish  issue  gradu- 
ally converged  as  Iranian  Kurdish  opposition  groups  initiated 
operations  in  Iran  from  bases  in  territory  controlled  by  the 
Kurdish  autonomous  authority  in  northern  Iraq.  Iran  not  only 
ceased  protesting  Turkish  actions  in  Iraq,  but  it  even  followed 
Turkey's  example  in  bombing  opposition  bases  in  Iraq.  During 
1993  Iran  also  responded  favorably  to  Turkish  proposals  per- 
taining to  security  cooperation  in  the  region  along  their  com- 
mon border  and  joined  Turkey  in  affirming  opposition  to  an 
independent  Kurdish  state  being  carved  out  of  Iraq. 

Syria  joined  Iran  and  Turkey  in  declaring  support  for  the 
territorial  integrity  of  Iraq,  and  representatives  of  the  three 
states  met  periodically  after  1991  to  discuss  mutual  concerns 
about  developments  in  northern  Iraq.  Nevertheless,  Turkey 
has  had  serious  reservations  about  Syria's  motives;  some  Turk- 
ish officials  believe  that  if  an  appropriate  opportunity  pre- 
sented itself,  Syria  would  use  the  Kurdish  issue  to  create  a 
Kurdish  state  in  parts  of  both  Iraq  and  Turkey.  Such  pessimistic 
views  stem  from  Syria's  long  support  of  the  PKK.  Turks  believe 
that  Syria  permits  the  PKK  to  maintain  a  training  base  in  Leba- 
non— where  Syrian  troops  have  been  stationed  since  1976 — 
and  allows  PKK  leaders  to  live  freely  in  Damascus.  Tensions 
between  Turkey  and  Syria  actually  had  been  accumulating  long 
before  the  eruption  of  the  PKK  "dispute"  in  1984.  Like  Iraq, 
Syria  was  an  Ottoman  province  until  1918.  Subsequently,  it  was 
governed  by  France  as  a  League  of  Nations  mandate.  In  1939 
France  detached  Hatay  (formerly  Alexandretta)  province  from 
Syria  and  ceded  it  to  Turkey,  an  action  bitterly  opposed  by  Arab 
nationalists.  Syria  thus  became  independent  in  1946  with  an 
irredentist  claim  against  Turkey.  The  Arab-Israeli  conflict  soon 
developed  as  another  source  of  Syrian  antagonism  toward  Tur- 


293 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

key,  which  extended  diplomatic  recognition  to  Israel  in  1948. 
Syria's  staunch  Arab  nationalists  also  condemned  Turkey's  par- 
ticipation in  NATO  and  other  Western  defense  arrangements 
during  the  1950s  and  1960s. 

Turkey's  adoption  in  1974  of  a  more  evenhanded  policy 
toward  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict  failed  to  impress  Syria.  Much  to 
Turkey's  disappointment,  Syria  supported  the  Greeks  in  the 
conflict  between  the  Greek  and  Turkish  communities  on  the 
island  of  Cyprus.  By  the  mid-1970s,  Turkey  was  convinced  that 
Syria  was  facilitating  Armenian  terrorist  operations  against 
Turkish  diplomats  abroad.  Given  the  coolness  and  mutual  sus- 
picions that  have  characterized  their  relations,  neither  Syria 
nor  Turkey  was  prepared  to  be  sensitive  to  the  other's  interests. 
One  reflection  of  this  attitude  was  Turkey's  decision  to  proceed 
with  plans  for  a  major  dam  project  on  the  Euphrates  River, 
apparently  without  adequate  consultation  with  Syria.  The 
Euphrates  rises  in  the  mountains  of  northern  Anatolia,  and 
Syria's  territory  is  bisected  by  the  river  before  it  enters  Iraq  on 
its  way  to  the  Persian  Gulf.  Upon  completion  of  the  project, 
Turkey  demonstrated  the  way  control  of  the  flow  of  water  to 
downstream  users  in  Syria  could  be  used  for  political  purposes, 
provoking  a  minicrisis  in  already  tense  relations.  Thus  the  dam 
became  yet  another  source  of  tension  between  the  two  coun- 
tries. 

Turkey's  relations  with  other  Arab  countries,  including  Iraq 
prior  to  1990,  have  been  more  positive  than  those  with  Syria.  In 
early  1995,  trade  seemed  to  be  the  most  important  aspect  of 
overall  relations.  Ankara  had  hoped  that  its  support  of  the 
United  States-led  coalition  in  the  Persian  Gulf  War  would  pro- 
duce economic  rewards.  In  fact,  some  Turkish  business  inter- 
ests won  contracts  for  construction  projects  in  the  Persian  Gulf 
region,  albeit  not  to  the  extent  anticipated.  Turkey's  regional 
exports  prior  to  1990  had  gone  primarily  to  Iraq  and  second- 
arily to  Iran.  The  loss  of  the  Iraqi  market  because  of  Turkish 
compliance  with  sanctions  initially  represented  a  severe  blow  to 
export-dependent  businesses  and  probably  contributed  to  an 
economic  recession  in  1991.  Beginning  in  1992,  however,  Tur- 
key gradually  increased  the  level  of  its  exports — particularly 
processed  food  and  manufactured  goods — to  Kuwait  and  other 
Persian  Gulf  states.  Although  the  prospects  for  expanding 
trade  with  Egypt  and  Israel  appear  limited  because  Turkey  and 
these  countries  export  similar  products  that  compete  in  inter- 
national markets,  Turkey,  nevertheless,  has  consolidated  its 


294 


Government  and  Politics 


political  ties  to  both  countries.  Since  1992,  for  example,  Israeli 
and  Turkish  investors  have  undertaken  several  joint-venture 
development  projects  in  Central  Asia.  Turkey  also  imports 
most  of  its  oil  from  Middle  Eastern  countries,  particularly 
Libya. 

European  Union 

Since  1963,  when  it  was  accepted  as  an  associate  member  of 
the  European  Community  (EC),  Turkey  has  striven  for  admis- 
sion as  a  full  member  of  that  body,  now  called  the  European 
Union  (EU — see  Glossary),  the  association  of  fifteen  West 
European  nations  that  comprises^  the  world's  wealthiest  and 
most  successful  trading  bloc.  The  Ozal  government,  which  had 
formulated  its  economic  policies  with  the  goal  of  meeting  cer- 
tain EC  objections  to  a  perceived  lack  of  competitiveness  in 
Turkish  industry,  formally  applied  for  full  membership  in 
1987.  Much  to  Turkey's  disappointment,  the  decision  was 
deferred  until  1993 — or  later — on  grounds  that  the  EC  could 
not  consider  new  members  until  after  the  implementation  of 
tighter  political  integration  scheduled  for  the  end  of  1992.  The 
unexpected  end  of  the  Cold  War  and  the  dissolution  of  the 
Soviet  Union  actually  delayed  integration  by  one  year,  prima- 
rily to  allow  time  for  the  EU  to  adjust  to  West  Germany's 
absorption  of  East  Germany.  The  new  Demirel  government, 
which  strongly  supported  Ozal's  goal  of  joining  the  EC,  was  dis- 
appointed in  1992  when  the  EC  agreed  to  consider  member- 
ship applications  from  Austria,  Finland,  Norway,  and  Sweden 
without  making  a  decision  on  Turkey's  long-standing  applica- 
tion. By  then  it  seemed  obvious  that  the  EC  was  reluctant  to  act 
on  Turkey's  application.  In  fact,  most  EC  members  objected  to 
full  Turkish  membership  for  a  variety  of  economic,  social,  and 
political  reasons. 

The  principal  economic  objections  to  Turkish  membership 
center  on  the  relative  underdevelopment  of  Turkey's  economy 
compared  to  the  economies  of  EC/EU  members  and  Turkey's 
high  rate  of  population  growth.  The  latter  issue  is  perceived  as 
a  potentially  serious  problem  because  of  free  labor  movement 
among  EU  members  and  the  fact  that  Turkey's  already  large 
population  is  expected  to  surpass  that  of  Germany — the  most 
populous  EU  member — by  2010.  Closely  related  to  the  con- 
cern about  there  being  too  many  Turkish  workers  for  too  few 
jobs  is  the  social  problem  of  integrating  those  workers  into 
European  culture.  Throughout  Western  Europe,  the  early 


295 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

1990s  witnessed  a  rise  in  anti-immigrant  feeling  directed  prima- 
rily against  Muslim  workers  from  North  Africa  and  Turkey.  For 
the  most  part,  EU  governments  have  not  developed  policies  to 
combat  this  resurgence  of  prejudice. 

The  political  obstacles  to  EU  membership  concern  Turkey's 
domestic  and  foreign  policies.  Because  the  European  body 
prides  itself  on  being  an  association  of  democracies,  the  1980 
military  coup — in  a  country  enjoying  associate  status — was  a 
severe  shock.  The  harshness  of  repression  under  the  military 
regime  further  disturbed  the  EC — many  EG  leaders  knew  per- 
sonally the  former  Turkish  leaders  whom  the  military  put  on 
trial  for  treason.  The  EC  responded  by  freezing  relations  with 
Turkey  and  suspending  economic  aid.  A  related  body,  the 
Council  of  Europe,  also  expelled  Turkey  from  its  parliamen- 
tary assembly.  The  restoration  of  civilian  rule  gradually  helped 
to  improve  Turkey's  image.  In  1985  Germany's  prime  minister 
signaled  the  EC's  readiness  to  resume  dialogue  with  Turkey  by 
accepting  an  invitation  to  visit  Ankara.  The  following  year,  the 
EC  restored  economic  aid  and  permitted  Turkey  to  reoccupy 
its  seats  in  European  deliberative  councils.  Nevertheless,  fre- 
quent veiled  threats  by  Turkey's  senior  military  officers  of 
future  interventions  if  politicians  "misbehaved"  did  not  inspire 
confidence  in  Europe  that  democracy  had  taken  permanent 
root  in  Turkey.  As  late  as  1995,  some  Europeans  remained 
apprehensive  about  the  possibility  of  another  military  coup,  a 
concern  that  was  shared  by  various  Turkish  politicians. 

EU  members  have  also  expressed  reservations  about  Tur- 
key's human  rights  record.  Amnesty  International  and  Helsinki 
Watch,  two  human  rights  monitoring  organizations  supported 
by  the  EU,  have  reported  the  persistence  of  practices  such  as 
arbitrary  arrests,  disappearances,  extrajudicial  killings,  torture 
in  prisons,  and  censorship.  The  Turkish  Human  Rights  Associa- 
tion, itself  subject  to  harassment  and  intimidation  tactics,  has 
prepared  detailed  chronologies  and  lists  of  human  rights 
abuses,  including  the  destruction  of  entire  villages  without  due 
process,  and  has  circulated  these  reports  widely  in  Europe.  The 
documented  reports  of  human  rights  abuses,  like  the  coup 
rumors,  sustained  questions  about  Turkey's  qualifications  to 
join  a  collective  body  of  countries  that  have  striven  to  achieve 
uniform  standards  for  protecting  citizen  rights. 

In  terms  of  foreign  policy,  the  main  obstacle  to  EU  member- 
ship remains  the  unresolved  issues  between  Turkey  and  EU 
member  Greece.  The  most  serious  issue  between  the  two  coun- 


296 


Government  and  Politics 


tries  is  their  dispute  over  the  island  of  Cyprus,  which  dates  back 
to  1974.  At  that  time,  Turkish  troops  occupied  the  northeast- 
ern part  of  the  island  to  protect  the  Turkish  minority  (20  per- 
cent of  the  population),  which  felt  threatened  by  the  Greek 
majority's  proposals  for  unification  with  Greece.  Years  of  nego- 
tiations have  failed  to  resolve  a  stalemate  based  on  the  de  facto 
partition  of  Cyprus  into  a  Turkish  Cypriot  north  and  a  Greek 
Cypriot  south,  a  division  that  continues  to  be  enforced  by  a 
Turkish  force  estimated  at  25,000  troops  in  early  1995  (see 
Conflict  and  Diplomacy:  Cyprus  and  Beyond,  ch.  1). 

Following  the  November  1983  declaration  of  independence 
of  the  Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus — a  government 
recognized  only  by  Turkey  in  early  1995 — Greece  persuaded 
fellow  EU  members  that  progress  on  settling  the  dispute  over 
Cyprus  should  be  a  prerequisite  to  accepting  Turkey  as  a  full 
member.  Despite  Ankara's  position  that  such  an  obvious  politi- 
cal condition  was  not  appropriate  for  an  economic  association, 
once  the  EC  agreed  in  1990  to  consider  an  application  for 
membership  from  Cyprus,  diplomatic  efforts  aimed  at  convinc- 
ing individual  EC  members  to  veto  the  condition  became 
futile.  Since  1990  Turkey  has  supported  UN-mediated  talks 
between  Greek  Cypriot  and  Turkish  Cypriot  leaders  that  are 
aimed  at  devising  procedures  for  the  island's  reunification.  As 
of  January  1995,  these  intermittent  discussions  had  made  little 
progress,  and  the  prospects  for  a  resolution  of  the  Cyprus  prob- 
lem appeared  dim. 

Equally  as  serious  as  the  Cyprus  issue  is  Turkey's  dispute 
with  Greece  over  territorial  rights  and  interests  in  the  Aegean 
Sea.  Although  both  Greece  and  Turkey  are  de  jure  allies  in 
NATO,  their  conflicting  claims  brought  them  to  the  brink  of 
war  in  1986  and  1987.  A  fundamental  source  of  contention  is 
exploration  rights  to  minerals,  primarily  oil,  beneath  the 
Aegean  Sea.  International  law  recognizes  the  right  of  a  country 
to  explore  the  mineral  wealth  on  its  own  continental  shelf. 
Greece  and  Turkey,  however,  have  been  unable  to  agree  on 
what  constitutes  the  Aegean  continental  shelf.  Turkey  defines 
the  Aegean  shelf  as  a  natural  prolongation  of  the  Anatolian 
coast,  whereas  Greece  claims  that  every  one  of  the  more  than 
2,000  of  its  islands  in  the  Aegean  has  its  own  shelf.  The  issue  is 
complicated  further  by  Greece's  claim  to  the  territorial  waters 
surrounding  its  islands.  Turkey  rejected  Greece's  attempts  to 
extend  its  six-nautical-mile  territorial  claim  around  each  island 
to  twelve  nautical  miles  on  grounds  that  such  a  move  would 


297 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

enable  Greece  to  control  71  percent,  rather  than  43  percent,  of 
the  Aegean.  Thus,  it  would  be  impossible  for  Turkish  ships  to 
reach  the  Mediterranean  Sea  without  crossing  Greek  waters. 

The  issue  of  the  right  to  control  the  airspace  over  the 
Aegean  appears  similarly  intractable.  Greece,  which  was 
granted  control  of  air  and  sea  operations  over  the  entire 
Aegean  region  by  various  NATO  agreements,  closed  the 
Aegean  air  corridors  during  the  1974  Cyprus  crisis  and  only 
reopened  them  early  in  1980  as  part  of  the  compromise 
arrangement  for  Greek  reintegration  into  NATO.  Disputes 
over  the  median  line  dividing  the  Aegean  into  approximately 
equal  sectors  of  responsibility  remain  unresolved.  In  addition, 
Turkey  refuses  to  recognize  the  ten-mile  territorial  air  limit 
decreed  by  Greece  in  1931;  this  line  extends  from  the  coast  of 
Greece's  mainland  as  well  as  from  its  islands.  These  unresolved 
issues  contribute  to  the  tensions  over  Cyprus  and  mineral 
exploration  rights  in  the  Aegean  Sea. 

Prime  Minister  Ozal  recognized  the  potential  of  Greece  to 
block  Turkish  admission  to  the  EC  even  before  his  government 
formally  submitted  its  application.  Thus,  early  in  1987  he 
attempted  to  defuse  tensions  by  initiating  a  meeting  with  his 
Greek  counterpart  in  Switzerland — the  first  meeting  between 
Greek  and  Turkish  heads  of  government  in  ten  years.  Their  dis- 
cussions resolved  an  immediate  crisis  over  oil  drilling  in  the 
Aegean  and  established  channels  for  further  diplomatic  discus- 
sions. In  June  1988,  Ozal  accepted  an  unprecedented  invita- 
tion to  visit  Athens,  the  first  state  visit  by  a  Turkish  leader  in 
thirty-six  years.  Although  Ozal's  initiatives  did  much  to  clear 
the  political  atmosphere,  leaders  in  both  countries  remain 
unable  to  overcome  their  mutual  suspicions.  Thus,  no  progress 
has  been  achieved  in  resolving  outstanding  differences, 
although  both  countries  are  showing  more  restraint  in  their 
rhetoric  and  actions.  Beginning  in  1989,  dramatic  political 
developments  in  Eastern  Europe  and  the  Middle  East  caused 
Turkey  and  Greece  to  focus  their  attention  beyond  the  Aegean 
Sea  and  the  Mediterranean  Sea. 

The  United  States 

In  early  1995,  Turkey's  most  important  international  rela- 
tionship was  with  the  United  States.  Turkey's  association  with 
the  United  States  began  in  1947  when  the  United  States  Con- 
gress designated  Turkey,  under  the  provisions  of  the  Truman 
Doctrine,  as  the  recipient  of  special  economic  and  military 


298 


Prime  Minister  Tansu  Qiller  with  President  William  J.  Clinton 

at  the  White  House  in  late  1994 
Courtesy  The  White  House 

assistance  intended  to  help  it  resist  threats  from  the  Soviet 
Union  (see  Politics  and  Foreign  Relations  in  the  1960s,  ch.  1). 
A  mutual  interest  in  containing  Soviet  expansion  provided  the 
foundation  of  United  States-Turkish  relations  for  the  next  forty 
years.  In  support  of  overall  United  States  Cold  War  strategy, 
Turkey  contributed  personnel  to  the  UN  forces  in  the  Korean 
War  (1950-53),  joined  NATO  in  1952,  became  a  founding 
member  of  the  Central  Treaty  Organization  (CENTO)  collec- 
tive defense  pact  established  in  1955,  and  endorsed  the  princi- 
ples of  the  1957  Eisenhower  Doctrine.  Throughout  the  1950s 
and  1960s,  Turkey  generally  cooperated  with  other  United 
States  allies  in  the  Middle  East  (Iran,  Israel,  and  Jordan)  to 
contain  the  influence  of  those  countries  (Egypt,  Iraq,  and 
Syria)  regarded  as  Soviet  clients. 

The  general  tendency  for  relationships  between  nations  to 
experience  strain  in  the  wake  of  domestic  and  international 
political  changes  has  proved  to  be  the  rule  for  Turkey  and  the 
United  States.  The  most  difficult  period  in  their  relationship 
followed  Turkey's  invasion  of  northern  Cyprus  in  1974.  In 
response  to  the  military  intervention,  the  United  States  halted 
arms  supplies  to  Turkey.  Ankara  retaliated  by  suspending 


299 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

United  States  military  operations  at  all  Turkish  installations 
that  were  not  clearly  connected  with  NATO  missions.  The 
Cyprus  issue  affected  United  States-Turkish  relations  for  sev- 
eral years.  Even  after  the  United  States  Congress  lifted  the  arms 
embargo  in  1978,  two  years  passed  before  bilateral  defense 
cooperation  and  military  assistance  were  restored  to  their  1974 
level. 

During  the  1980s,  relations  between  Turkey  and  the  United 
States  gradually  recovered  the  closeness  of  earlier  years. 
Although  Ankara  resented  continued  attempts  by  the  United 
States  Congress  to  restrict  military  assistance  to  Turkey  because 
of  Cyprus  and  to  introduce  congressional  resolutions  con- 
demning the  1915-16  massacre  of  Armenians,  the  Ozal  govern- 
ment generally  perceived  the  administrations  of  President 
Ronald  Reagan  and  President  George  H.W.  Bush  as  sympa- 
thetic to  Turkish  interests.  For  example,  Washington  demon- 
strated its  support  of  Ozal's  market-oriented  economic  policies 
and  efforts  to  open  the  Turkish  economy  to  international  trade 
by  pushing  for  acceptance  of  an  International  Monetary  Fund 
(IMF — see  Glossary)  program  to  provide  economic  assistance 
to  Turkey.  Furthermore,  the  United  States,  unlike  European 
countries,  did  not  persistently  and  publicly  criticize  Turkey 
over  allegations  of  human  rights  violations.  Also,  the  United 
States  did  not  pressure  Ozal  on  the  Kurdish  problem,  another 
issue  that  seemed  to  preoccupy  the  Europeans.  By  1989  the 
United  States  had  recovered  a  generally  positive  image  among 
the  Turkish  political  elite. 

The  end  of  the  Cold  War  forced  Turkish  leaders  to  reassess 
their  country's  international  position.  The  disappearance  of 
the  Soviet  threat  and  the  perception  of  being  excluded  from 
Europe  have  created  a  sense  of  vulnerability  with  respect  to 
Turkey's  position  in  the  fast-changing  global  political  environ- 
ment. Ozal  believed  Turkey's  future  security  depended  on  the 
continuation  of  a  strong  relationship  with  the  United  States. 
For  that  reason,  he  supported  the  United  States  position  dur- 
ing the  Persian  Gulf  War,  although  Turkey's  economic  ties  to 
Iraq  were  extensive  and  their  disruption  hurt  the  country. 
After  the  war,  he  continued  to  support  major  United  States  ini- 
tiatives in  the  region,  including  the  creation  of  a  no-fly  zone 
over  northern  Iraq,  the  Arab-Israeli  peace  process,  and 
expanded  ties  with  the  Central  Asian  members  of  the  CIS. 
Ozal's  pro-United  States  policy  was  not  accepted  by  all  Turks. 
United  States  use  of  Turkish  military  installations  during  the 


300 


Government  and  Politics 

bombing  of  Iraq  in  1991  led  to  antiwar  demonstrations  in  sev- 
eral cities,  and  sporadic  attacks  on  United  States  facilities  con- 
tinued in  1992  and  1993.  Nevertheless,  among  Turkey's 
political  elite  a  consensus  had  emerged  by  January  1995  that 
Turkey's  security  depended  on  remaining  a  strategic  ally  of  the 
United  States.  For  that  reason,  both  the  Demirel  and  (filler  gov- 
ernments undertook  efforts  to  cultivate  relations  with  the 
administrations  of  presidents  George  H.W.  Bush  and  William  J. 
Clinton. 

*  *  * 

George  S.  Harris  analyzes  Turkey's  governmental  frame- 
work, political  dynamics,  and  foreign  policy  from  both  histori- 
cal and  contemporary  perspectives  in  Turkey:  Coping  with  Crisis. 
Frank  Tachau  describes  the  tension  among  authoritarianism, 
democracy,  and  economic  development  in  Turkey:  The  Politics  of 
Authority,  Democracy,  and  Development.  Insight  into  the  break- 
down of  Turkish  democracy  and  the  framing  of  a  new  constitu- 
tion is  provided  in  Clement  H.  Dodd's  The  Crisis  of  Turkish 
Democracy  and  in  Lucille  W.  Pevsner's  Turkey's  Political  Crisis. 

Religion  and  religious  movements  in  contemporary  Turkey 
are  examined  in  Religion  and  Social  Change  in  Modern  Turkey,  by 
Serif  A.  Mardin,  and  in  a  volume  edited  by  Richard  Tapper, 
Islam  in  Modern  Turkey:  Religion,  Politics,  and  Literature  in  a  Secu- 
lar State.  Information  on  patterns  of  political  participation 
through  specialized  associations  can  be  obtained  from  Robert 
Bianchi's  detailed  study,  Interest  Groups  and  Political  Development 
in  Turkey.  David  Barchard  examines  aspects  of  Turkey's  foreign 
policy  in  Turkey  and  the  West.  The  complicated  relationship 
between  Turkey  and  Greece  and  it  simplications  for  the  United 
States  are  examined  in  Theodore  A.  Couloumbis's  The  United 
States,  Greece,  and  Turkey  and  Monteagle  Stearns's  Entangled 
Allies:  United  States  Policy  Toward  Greece,  Turkey,  and  Cyprus.  (For 
further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


301 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


The  Rumeli  Hisar  or  castle  guards  the  Bosporus  and  Istanbul 


THE  ARMED  FORCES  have  figured  prominently  in  Turkish 
national  life  for  centuries.  Under  Ottoman  rule,  the  govern- 
ment and  the  military  establishment  were  virtually  indistin- 
guishable. After  World  War  I,  the  army  commander,  Mustafa 
Kemal,  later  called  Atatiirk  (meaning  Father  Turk),  evicted  the 
occupying  forces  of  the  victorious  Allies  from  Anatolia  and  for- 
mulated the  principles  underlying  the  modern  Turkish  state. 
On  three  occasions  since  then,  the  military  leadership  has 
intervened  to  protect  the  nation's  democratic  framework.  The 
third  interlude  of  military  rule,  which  lasted  from  1980  to 
1983,  was  welcomed  by  many  Turkish  citizens  because  it  ended 
the  terrorism  of  the  1970s.  The  military's  actions,  however,  also 
limited  the  democratic  process. 

A  member  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 
(NATO)  since  1952,  Turkey  long  had  the  vital  mission  of 
anchoring  the  alliance's  southern  flank  against  the  military 
power  of  the  Warsaw  Pact  and  the  Soviet  Union.  Turkish  armed 
forces  defended  the  Bosporus  and  Dardanelles  straits  and  Tur- 
key's northeastern  border  with  the  Soviet  Union  in  the  Trans- 
caucasus  region.  Vessels  of  the  Soviet  Union's  Black  Sea  fleet 
had  to  transit  the  Turkish-controlled  straits  to  enter  the  Medi- 
terranean. 

The  disintegration  of  the  Soviet  Union  in  1991  fundamen- 
tally changed  Turkey's  security  environment.  Fear  of  Soviet 
aggression  no  longer  looms  over  the  nation,  yet  Turkey 
remains  at  the  center  of  a  region  seething  with  political  and 
economic  discord.  The  stability  of  Turkey's  borders  is  threat- 
ened by  turbulence  among  the  newly  independent  republics  of 
the  Caucasus  and  by  hostile  states  in  the  Middle  East.  Turkey's 
concern  over  the  fortunes  of  the  Turkic  states  of  Central  Asia 
could  bring  it  into  conflict  with  Russia  or  Iran.  Turkey  is  an 
advocate  of  the  interests  of  Muslim  peoples  in  the  Balkans,  but 
its  modest  military  role  as  part  of  the  United  Nations  (UN) 
Protection  Force  in  Bosnia  has  generated  controversy  because 
of  memories  of  the  Ottoman  Empire's  long  involvement  there. 

The  Turkish  government  has  taken  sweeping  measures  to 
restructure  and  modernize  the  armed  forces  to  deal  with  the 
new  conditions,  in  which  Soviet  military  might  has  been  super- 
seded by  a  multiplicity  of  threats  near  Turkey's  eastern  and 
southern  borders.  The  new  strategy  emphasizes  the  ability  to 


305 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

perform  a  variety  of  missions,  move  forces  rapidly  from  one 
region  to  another,  and  mount  firepower  sufficient  to  meet  any 
foreseeable  threat.  Undergoing  the  most  radical  reorganiza- 
tion have  been  the  land  forces,  which  were  reduced  from  about 
525,000  troops  in  1990  to  about  393,000  in  1994.  For  added 
flexibility,  the  army  has  adopted  a  brigade  structure  in  place  of 
the  previous  divisional  pattern.  The  army's  stocks  of  tanks  and 
armored  vehicles  have  been  enlarged  and  improved;  self-pro- 
pelled howitzers  and  multiple  rocket  launchers  also  have  been 
added.  Troop-carrying  helicopters  will  ensure  greater  mobility. 

An  expanded  Turkish  defense  industry  has  played  a  major 
role  in  the  modernization  of  the  armed  forces.  Under  joint- 
venture  programs  with  United  States  manufacturers,  combat 
aircraft,  armored  vehicles,  rocket  systems,  and  tank  upgrades 
have  been  supplied.  Submarines  and  other  vessels  have  been 
produced  in  cooperation  with  the  German  shipbuilding  indus- 
try. The  centerpiece  of  the  modernization  effort  has  been  the 
United  States-Turkey  F-16  coproduction  project,  which  is 
expected  to  add  240  high-performance  fighter  aircraft  to  the 
Turkish  inventory  during  the  1990s. 

Turkey  and  the  United  States  developed  many  defense  links 
and  common  goals  after  United  States  military  and  economic 
assistance  began  in  1947  in  response  to  the  threat  of  Soviet 
expansion.  For  instance,  Turkey  has  permitted  the  United 
States  to  use  forward  bases  and  intelligence  installations  on 
Turkish  territory.  During  the  Cold  War,  these  installations  were 
of  vital  importance  in  monitoring  military  activity  and  weapons 
testing  by  the  Soviet  Union.  Following  the  end  of  the  Persian 
Gulf  War  in  1991,  Turkish  bases  enabled  the  United  States  and 
coalition  forces  to  conduct  Operation  Provide  Comfort,  an 
effort  to  supply  humanitarian  relief  to  Kurds  in  northern  Iraq 
and  enforce  a  "no-fly  zone"  in  the  area  against  Iraqi  aircraft. 

Overshadowing  all  external  threats  to  Turkish  security  is  the 
Kurdish  insurgency,  which  began  in  1984  in  the  southeastern 
region  of  the  country.  This  movement,  which  involves  only  a 
small  minority  of  Turkey's  Kurdish  population,  is  led  by  the 
extremist  Kurdistan  Workers'  Party  (Partiya  Karkere  Kurdis- 
tan— PKK).  The  conflict  became  particularly  violent  beginning 
in  1992.  Some  4,000  Kurds  and  government  security  personnel 
were  killed  in  1993  alone,  many  of  them  noncombatants.  The 
activities  of  the  PKK  complicate  Turkey's  relations  with  Syria, 
Iraq,  and  Iran,  where  the  PKK  insurgents  have  maintained  sup- 
ply and  training  bases.  By  early  1995,  the  Turkish  government 


306 


National  Security 


had  deployed  nearly  200,000  soldiers  and  police  to  the  region, 
and  had  adopted  a  policy  of  forcibly  evacuating  and  often 
burning  Kurdish  villages  believed  to  be  aiding  the  insurgents. 
These  measures  apparently  dampened  the  insurgency,  but  at 
the  cost  of  alienating  large  numbers  of  Kurds  not  involved  in 
the  separatist  movement. 

Historical  Role  of  the  Armed  Forces 

The  professional  armed  forces  of  Turkey  trace  their  origins 
back  more  than  five  centuries,  to  a  permanent  body  of  men 
recruited  to  form  the  nucleus  of  the  much  larger  armies  mobi- 
lized to  conduct  annual  campaigns  against  selected  objectives. 
A  unique  feature  of  the  Ottoman  military  organization  was  the 
janissary  army,  whose  members  were  conscripted  as  youths 
from  among  the  empire's  non-Muslim  subjects  in  the  Balkans, 
converted  to  Islam,  and  given  military  training.  Gradually 
acquiring  high  status,  prominence,  and  privilege,  the  janissar- 
ies ultimately  constituted  a  reactionary  palace  guard  resistant 
to  reforms  and  of  little  military  value  to  the  reigning  sultan. 

Military  conquest  permitted  the  spread  of  the  Ottoman 
Empire  through  the  Middle  East,  North  Africa,  the  Balkans, 
and  most  of  Eastern  Europe.  The  sequence  of  Ottoman  victo- 
ries was  finally  halted  and  a  gradual  military  eclipse  ensued 
after  the  failure  of  the  siege  of  Vienna  in  1683  (see  Koprvilu 
Era,  ch.  1).  Vast  territories  were  relinquished  as  a  result  of  a 
century  of  setbacks  in  battles  with  the  European  powers. 

The  need  to  modernize  a  military  system  engaged  in  a  los- 
ing struggle  to  maintain  Ottoman  control  over  the  Mediterra- 
nean littoral  and  the  Middle  East  was  recognized  by  the  first  of 
the  reforming  sultans,  Selim  III  (r.  1789-1807).  He  introduced 
French  instructors  to  train  the  soldiers  of  a  new  volunteer  army 
organized  along  the  lines  of  contemporary  European  armed 
forces.  However,  his  efforts  were  successfully  resisted  by  the  jan- 
issaries, who  concluded  that  reform  foreshadowed  an  end  to 
their  traditional  privileges.  Rising  up  in  1807,  the  janissaries 
precipitated  the  sultan's  abdication  and  the  dismantling  of  the 
new  army.  Mahmud  II  (r.  1808-39)  eventually  became  strong 
enough  to  challenge  the  power  of  the  traditional  military  caste. 
He  reinstituted  the  reformed  army  and,  in  1826,  crushed  the 
janissaries  with  a  massive  artillery  barrage  aimed  at  their  bar- 
racks. 

The  internal  decay  of  the  Ottoman  Empire  during  the  late 
nineteenth  century  was  accompanied  by  growing  disaffection 


307 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

and  turmoil  among  younger  military  officers  and  civil  servants. 
Coming  together  as  the  Committee  of  Union  and  Progress 
(better  known  as  the  Young  Turks),  and  operating  as  secret 
cells  within  military  units,  the  dissidents  instigated  a  series  of 
upheavals  and  mutinies  within  the  military  that  culminated  in 
the  revolution  of  1908  and  the  fall  of  Sultan  Abdul  Hamid  II 
(see  The  Young  Turks,  ch.  1).  Divided  between  nationalist  and 
liberal  factions,  the  Young  Turk  officers  could  not  prevent  for- 
eign powers  from  seizing  portions  of  the  empire's  Balkan  hold- 
ings. After  the  empire's  defeat  at  the  hands  of  Bulgaria,  Greece, 
Italy,  and  Serbia  in  the  Balkan  Wars  of  1912-13,  a  military  dic- 
tatorship emerged,  under  the  nominal  control  of  the  sultan. 
Motivated  by  their  fear  of  Russia,  the  nationalist  officers  made 
the  fateful  error  of  joining  the  Central  Powers  in  World  War  I. 
Initially,  the  Turkish  army  was  successful,  stubbornly  resisting 
the  landing  of  British  and  Australian  forces  at  Gallipoli  in  1915 
and  forcing  their  withdrawal  the  following  year.  But  operations 
against  Russia  went  badly,  and  tsarist  forces  advanced  onto 
Turkish  soil.  In  Mesopotamia  and  Palestine,  British  and  Arab 
units  also  prevailed  against  the  Turks  (see  World  War  I,  ch.  1). 

A  new  contingent  of  Young  Turks  led  by  the  war  hero 
Ataturk  resisted  the  postwar  occupation  of  most  of  Turkey  by 
Greek,  French,  Italian,  and  British  forces.  A  series  of  defeats 
were  administered  to  the  Greek  troops,  resulting  in  their  with- 
drawal in  1922.  The  Turks  subsequently  forced  the  occupying 
Allies  to  accede  to  a  peace  treaty  recognizing  the  present  bor- 
ders of  Turkey  and  enabling  the  proclamation  in  1923  of  the 
Republic  of  Turkey,  with  Ataturk  as  its  president  (see  War  of 
Independence,  ch.  1). 

Ataturk  envisioned  Turkey  as  a  modern,  secular  democracy 
in  which  the  army  would  distance  itself  from  the  civil  functions 
of  government.  The  army  nevertheless  preserved  the  right  to 
intervene  as  the  ultimate  guardian  of  the  state  if  the  political 
system  became  deadlocked  or  Ataturk's  reforms  were  endan- 
gered. Although  active-duty  officers  were  forbidden  to  engage 
in  politics,  the  interests  of  the  military  did  not  go  unrepre- 
sented. Until  1950  many  influential  leadership  posts  and  at 
least  20  percent  of  the  seats  in  the  Grand  National  Assembly 
were  held  by  individuals  with  military  backgrounds.  For  nearly 
thirty  years,  the  nation  was  governed  by  two  military  heroes  of 
the  War  of  Independence — first  Ataturk  and  then,  after  his 
death  in  1938,  Ismet  Inonu — and  a  single  political  party  in 
which  retired  senior  officers  were  heavily  represented. 


308 


National  Security 


The  Armed  Forces  and  Society 

The  armed  forces  traditionally  have  enjoyed  a  distinguished 
position  in  Turkish  national  life.  Soldiers  receive  widespread 
respect  as  symbols  of  Turkish  national  identity  and  as  legatees 
of  the  country's  long  martial  traditions.  A  leading  Turkish  jour- 
nalist has  written  that  "the  army  is  always  praised,  never  criti- 
cized, and,  in  an  emergency,  it  is  seen  as  the  nation's  savior." 
Over  the  centuries,  the  army  has  been  perceived  as  a  civilizing 
and  humanizing  factor  in  society.  In  the  modern  era,  it  is  con- 
sidered the  embodiment  of  the  enlightened,  progressive  forces 
that  inspired  the  revolution  of  1908  against  Ottoman  rule  and 
later  prevented  the  nation's  dismemberment  by  driving  out  the 
occupying  armies  after  World  War  I.  The  army  also  has 
received  credit  for  rescuing  the  nation  from  the  turmoil  and 
violence  of  the  late  1970s. 

Turks  recognize  that  a  career  in  the  armed  forces  provides 
the  opportunity  for  a  quality  education  at  no  cost,  followed  by  a 
lifetime  of  secure  and  respected  employment.  Although  some 
members  of  the  middle  and  upper  classes  hold  the  view  that 
the  specialized  education  and  isolated  life  of  the  officer  pro- 
duce individuals  inflexibly  committed  to  a  set  of  values  remote 
from  the  real  world,  such  criticism  is  rarely  expressed  openly. 
In  any  event,  a  career  in  the  armed  forces  has  become  less  of  a 
lifetime  commitment  than  in  the  past.  Because  of  the  superior 
technical  education  it  provides,  military  service  is  often  seen  as 
an  avenue  to  a  successful  civilian  career. 

Because  of  the  large  number  of  applicants  for  places  in  the 
military  high  schools  and  service  academies,  the  standards  for 
officer  candidates  remain  high.  In  the  course  of  their  military 
education,  students  learn  the  values  of  Kemalism  (the  precepts 
of  Ataturk)  and  are  taught  to  take  pride  in  the  role  of  the  mili- 
tary in  protecting  the  democratic  state  against  the  extremes  of 
left  and  right  and  the  appeal  of  radical  Islamism.  Officers  tend 
to  develop  an  outlook  that  is  nationalistic  and  hierarchical.  In 
the  early  1960s,  a  minority  of  junior  officers  had  left-wing  sym- 
pathies, but  strict  background  checks,  together  with  the 
emphasis  on  cohesiveness  and  discipline,  are  believed  subse- 
quently to  have  produced  an  officer  corps  immune  to  radical- 
ism. The  military  maintains  intense  vigilance  against  the 
infiltration  of  leftist  thought,  as  well  as  against  Islamic  activism 
(also  seen  as  fundamentalism). 

The  officer  corps  enjoys  certain  privileges,  but  the  military 
makes  efforts  to  keep  these  from  becoming  conspicuous 


309 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

enough  to  provoke  civilian  criticism.  Officers  consider  clubs, 
attractive  housing,  vacation  resorts,  and  sports  facilities  as  nec- 
essary to  compensate  for  the  modest  pay  and  other  disadvan- 
tages of  career  military  service.  Officers  are  also  expected  to 
meet  high  standards  of  personal  probity. 

Most  individuals  entering  the  service  academies  are  drawn 
from  the  lower-middle  and  middle  classes.  The  results  of  one 
survey  showed  that  about  40  percent  of  army  and  air  force 
cadets  and  55  percent  of  naval  cadets  were  sons  of  military  ser- 
vice members,  gendarmes,  or  civil  servants,  in  particular  teach- 
ers. This  suggests,  one  analyst  has  noted,  a  perpetuation  of  the 
sense  of  kinship  with  the  spirit  of  Ataturk  and  the  revolution  of 
1908.  Less  than  10  percent  of  those  entering  the  army  and  air 
force  academies  in  the  earlyl980s  were  from  rural  families; 
naval  cadets  with  an  agricultural  background  were  almost 
unknown.  Geographically,  central  Anatolia  and  areas  adjacent 
to  the  Aegean  Sea  and  the  Sea  of  Marmara  were  overrepre- 
sented,  whereas  southeastern  Turkey  was  most  underrepre- 
sented,  supplying  only  1  to  2  percent  of  cadets  (see  fig.  1). 
Resistance  to  assimilation  by  Kurdish-  and  Arabic-speaking 
minorities  in  the  southeast  and  strict  political  screening  may 
account  for  the  limited  recruitment  from  this  area  to  the  offi- 
cer corps. 

In  contrast  to  officer  candidates,  enlisted  personnel,  espe- 
cially conscripts,  are  preponderantly  from  peasant  households. 
At  least  80  to  85  percent  are  ethnically  Turkish,  and  the  vast 
majority  are  Sunni  (see  Glossary)  Muslims.  Once  rare,  efforts 
to  evade  the  draft  or  obtain  unjustified  deferments  apparently 
are  becoming  more  common  (see  Conditions  of  Service,  this 
ch.).  Nevertheless,  for  a  young  soldier  facing  doubtful  employ- 
ment prospects,  active  duty  means  a  nutritious  diet,  access  to 
medical  care,  and  perhaps  an  opportunity  to  further  one's  edu- 
cation and  acquire  a  useful  job  skill.  Military  service  offers  an 
interlude  from  the  unvarying  pace  of  village  life  and  is  a  source 
of  pride,  linking  one  to  the  warrior  tradition  of  Turkish  society. 

Politics  and  the  Military 

Since  the  founding  of  the  Turkish  Republic  in  1923,  six  of 
the  nation's  nine  presidents  have  had  armed  forces  back- 
grounds. Until  1950  Ataturk  and  his  successor  and  closest  mili- 
tary associate,  Inonii,  ruled  what  was  an  essentially  a  one-party 
political  system  with  a  strong  martial  flavor.  Ataturk  encour- 
aged the  military  to  abjure  politics,  but  the  armed  forces  inter- 


310 


National  Security 


vened  on  three  occasions — in  1960,  1971,  and  1980.  Although 
they  did  so  under  different  circumstances  in  each  case,  their 
justification  was  their  sworn  duty  to  uphold  national  unity  and 
the  democratic  order. 

The  military  regime  of  1980-83  was  the  longest  lasting,  and 
represented  the  armed  forces'  most  serious  effort  to  transform 
traditional  political  behavior.  The  changes  the  regime  intro- 
duced were  intended  to  break  what  had  become  a  cycle  of 
decennial  military  interventions.  The  constitution  introduced 
by  the  coup  leaders  in  1982,  which  forbade  political  activism  in 
the  universities  and  trade  unions,  abolished  pre-existing  par- 
ties, and  banned  political  activity  by  pre-1980  party  leaders,  was 
the  centerpiece  of  the  military's  efforts  to  curtail  the  factional- 
ism and  polarization  that  had  stalemated  the  previous  civilian 
government  (see  Political  Developments  since  the  1980  Coup, 
ch.  4). 

The  leader  of  the  1980-83  junta,  General  Kenan  Evren, 
remained  as  president  after  the  return  of  civilian  government, 
but  the  generals  disavowed  any  desire  for  a  continuing  political 
role  for  the  military.  The  public  failed  to  respond  to  Evren's 
appeal  to  vote  for  the  party  favored  by  the  generals,  the  Nation- 
alist Democracy  Party  (Milliyetci  Demokrasi  Partisi — MDP).  A 
new  grouping  of  retired  officers  and  other  leading  citizens,  the 
MDP  had  the  same  interests  and  goals  as  the  military  regime. 
Although  disappointed  by  the  party's  lack  of  success,  military 
leaders  established  good  working  relations  with  the  victorious 
Motherland  Party  (Anavatan  Partisi — ANAP)  of  Turgut  Ozal. 
By  promptly  relinquishing  control  over  public  life,  the  military 
preserved  its  reputation  as  the  ultimate  protector  of  Turkish 
democratic  institutions. 

On  two  occasions,  Ozal  prevailed  when  differences  arose 
with  the  armed  forces.  In  1987,  as  prime  minister,  he  overrode 
the  military's  choice  of  an  army  commander  as  the  new  chief  of 
the  General  Staff,  reportedly  out  of  dissatisfaction  with  the  con- 
duct of  the  campaign  against  the  Kurdish  insurgency.  In  1990, 
after  Ozal  became  president,  the  chief  of  staff  resigned  as  a 
result  of  undisclosed  disagreements  assumed  to  have  sprung 
from  Ozal's  activist  stance  against  Iraq's  takeover  of  Kuwait  but 
did  not  make  a  public  issue  of  his  difference  with  Ozal. 

Imbued  with  the  concept  that  its  mission  is  to  safeguard 
Atatiirk's  heritage,  the  military  establishment  has  often  shown 
its  impatience  with  political  bickering  and  compromises  that 
appear  to  slight  Kemalist  objectives.  Civilian  politicians  indif- 


311 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

ferent  to  those  goals  or  embracing  other  ideologies  are  viewed 
with  suspicion  or  even  as  subversive.  Much  of  the  military  edu- 
cation system  is  concerned  with  instilling  the  Kemalist  spirit 
through  study  of  the  1919-22  War  of  Independence,  the  con- 
cept of  patriotism  as  embodied  by  Ataturk,  and  the  values  and 
principles  of  Kemalism,  particularly  the  "Six  Arrows"  of  secular- 
ism, republicanism,  populism,  etatism  (see  Glossary),  reform- 
ism, and  nationalism,  as  guidance  for  the  future  of  the  Turkish 
state. 

A  democratic  system  is  fully  accepted  as  the  best  form  of 
government  by  the  professional  military.  However,  young 
career  officers  are  indoctrinated  with  the  view  that  the  proper 
working  of  democracy  demands  discipline,  organization,  con- 
structiveness,  unity  of  purpose,  and  rejection  of  self-interest. 
Thus,  the  military  has  little  tolerance  of  politicians  whom  it 
perceives  as  putting  personal  ambition  before  the  good  of  the 
state  or  of  political  parties  or  groups  acting  in  ways  it  considers 
to  be  dictated  by  a  struggle  for  power  and  economic  advantage. 

From  a  career  point  of  view,  it  is  said  to  be  unwise  for  an  offi- 
cer to  express  opinions  that  can  be  construed  as  liberal  or 
otherwise  unorthodox.  The  armed  forces  have  shown  particu- 
lar sensitivity  to  the  threat  of  radical  Islamism  to  military  order. 
In  1991  the  general  staff  disclosed  that  in  the  preceding 
decade  357  officers  and  seventy-one  noncommissioned  officers 
(NCOs)  had  been  dismissed  on  charges  of  involvement  in 
extreme  leftist  or  separatist  (presumably  Kurdish)  activities. 
During  the  same  period,  thirty-seven  officers  and  188  NCOs 
were  discharged  for  involvement  in  extreme  rightist  or  Islamist 
activities. 

External  Security  Concerns 

Throughout  the  Cold  War,  Turkey's  security  situation  was 
shaped  by  the  country's  vulnerability  to  Soviet  military 
strength.  It  was  obliged  to  contend  with  the  threat  of  twenty 
divisions  of  Soviet  land  forces  close  to  the  common  border  of 
more  than  500  kilometers  in  the  Transcaucasus  region  of 
northern  Turkey.  Turkey's  heavily  populated  areas  were  within 
easy  range  of  Soviet  fighter  aircraft  and  bombers;  Soviet  naval 
vessels  and  submarines  were  well  positioned  to  dominate  the 
Black  Sea. 

Turkish  suspicion  of  Soviet  motives  had  historical  roots  in 
the  efforts  of  imperial  Russia  to  extend  its  influence  beyond 
the  Black  Sea  to  the  eastern  Mediterranean  and  the  Middle 


312 


Soldiers,  armored  unit,  and  mobile  antiaircraft  passing  in  review, 

Republic  Day  parade  ( October  29) 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Turkey,  Washington 


313 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


East.  The  Soviet  naval  presence  in  the  Mediterranean  was 
linked  tactically  and  logistically  to  the  Soviet  Black  Sea  fleet. 
Transit  of  the  Turkish-controlled  Bosporus  was  essential  to  the 
projection  of  Soviet  naval  power  in  the  Mediterranean. 

For  Turkey,  perhaps  the  most  important  consequence  of  the 
1991  breakup  of  the  Soviet  Union  was  that  it  no  longer  shares  a 
border  with  Russia  and  that  the  risk  of  conflict  with  the  Rus- 
sians has  greatly  receded.  The  appearance  of  several  newly 
independent  nations  at  Turkey's  borders,  however,  has  resulted 
in  a  less  settled  security  environment  because  Turkey  now  feels 
a  greater  potential  threat  from  other  powers  in  the  area  such  as 
Greece,  Syria,  and  Iraq. 

Although  buffered  by  other  new  nations  in  the  Black  Sea 
and  Caucasus  regions,  Russia  remains  a  compelling  presence  in 
the  minds  of  Turkish  military  planners.  With  Moscow  increas- 
ingly willing  to  intervene  in  conflicts  near  Turkey's  borders, 
concern  has  grown  that  a  resurgent  Russian  nationalism  might 
seek  pretexts  to  gain  control  of  former  republics  of  the  Soviet 
Union.  Russia  has  repositioned  to  its  southern  flank  some  of 
the  ground  weapons  withdrawn  from  Central  Europe  under 
the  terms  of  the  Conventional  Forces  in  Europe  (CFE)  Treaty 
of  1990.  Although  the  treaty  placed  a  ceiling  on  the  number  of 
tanks,  armored  vehicles,  and  artillery  pieces  that  could  be  rede- 
ployed to  the  North  Caucasus  Military  District,  the  Russians 
have  exceeded  this  limit,  citing  concerns  over  instability  in 
their  border  regions. 

Close  to  Turkey's  northeastern  border,  three  former  repub- 
lics of  the  Soviet  Union — Georgia,  Armenia,  and  Azerbaijan — 
are  beset  by  dissidence  and  fighting.  Turkey  has  historical,  cul- 
tural, religious,  and  linguistic  ties  with  Azerbaijan  and  sup- 
ported Azerbaijan  in  its  war  with  Armenia.  From  the  Turkish 
perspective,  Armenia  committed  aggression  against  Azerbaijan 
by  seizing  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  region,  which  is  inhabited 
mostly  by  ethnic  Armenians.  Russia  issued  veiled  warnings 
against  Turkish  involvement  in  the  Armenian  situation,  which 
could  pit  Turkey  against  Russia.  Turkey  has  ruled  out  the  use  of 
force,  wary  of  a  wider  conflict  between  Christians  and  Muslims 
in  the  region. 

Middle  Eastern  Conflicts 

Despite  its  location,  Turkey  generally  has  been  successful  in 
pursuing  a  policy  of  noninterference  and  noninvolvement  in 
Middle  Eastern  conflicts.  For  instance,  Turkey  refrained  from 


314 


National  Security 


supporting  either  belligerent  in  the  Iran-Iraq  War  of  1980-88. 
Although  both  sides  violated  Turkish  airspace,  Turkey  took  no 
defensive  action  and  sought  to  mediate  an  end  to  hostilities. 

In  the  first  days  after  Iraq's  occupation  of  Kuwait  in  August 
1990,  the  Turkish  government  tried  to  preserve  its  traditional 
neutral  stance  in  what  it  perceived  as  an  inter-Arab  dispute. 
Ankara  was  quickly  obliged  to  depart  from  this  position,  how- 
ever, in  light  of  the  strong  reaction  in  the  UN  against  the  inva- 
sion. Turkey  responded  to  the  UN  Security  Council's  call  for  an 
embargo  against  Iraq  by  closing  the  Kirkuk-Yurmurtalik  oil 
pipeline  linking  the  two  countries  and  halting  trade  with  Iraq. 
These  measures  were  crucial  to  the  economic  campaign 
against  Saddam  Husayn  but  imposed  severe  economic  hard- 
ship on  Turkey.  The  direct  cost  to  its  balance  of  payments  was 
estimated  at  US$2  billion  to  US$2.5  billion  annually.  This  bur- 
den was  eased  somewhat  by  aid  from  the  United  States  and  the 
Persian  Gulf  countries.  Firm  opposition  in  parliament  and  the 
cabinet  prevented  President  Ozal  from  offering  a  Turkish  con- 
tingent for  the  coalition  forces  in  the  Persian  Gulf.  However, 
some  150,000  Turkish  troops  were  deployed  near  the  south- 
eastern border  with  Iraq,  tying  down  eight  or  nine  Iraqi  divi- 
sions. Turkey  requested  and  received  a  defensive  deployment 
of  NATO  air  forces  in  the  area  to  discourage  attack  by  the  Iraqi 
air  force,  which  could  easily  outmatch  the  fighter  aircraft  and 
antiaircraft  defenses  that  Turkey  could  muster.  A  total  of  forty 
German,  Italian,  and  Belgian  aircraft  were  dispatched  to  Tur- 
key. In  addition,  United  States  and  Dutch  Patriot  missile  batter- 
ies were  deployed  against  a  possible  Iraqi  missile  attack. 

When  the  coalition  air  strikes  on  Iraq  were  launched  in  Jan- 
uary 1991,  ninety-six  United  States  aircraft  and  several  British 
bombers  operated  from  the  United  States  air  base  at  Incirlik, 
refueling  at  Batman,  a  base  about  150  kilometers  from  the 
Iraqi  border.  Sorties  continued  from  Incirlik  until  the  cease- 
fire on  February  28,  1991,  without  provoking  retaliation  from 
Saddam  Husayn. 

The  major  consequence  of  the  Persian  Gulf  War  from  the 
standpoint  of  Turkish  security  was  the  uprising  of  the  Kurds  in 
northern  Iraq  and  the  exodus  of  Kurds  toward  Turkish  terri- 
tory to  escape  Saddam  Husayn's  brutal  suppression  of  the 
rebellion.  Turkey  was  decidedly  reluctant  to  accept  the  Kurds 
as  refugees,  considering  them  a  potential  destabilizing  factor  in 
its  struggle  with  domestic  Kurdish  dissidents.  As  an  alternative, 
Turkey  supported  the  UN-approved  Operation  Provide  Com- 


315 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

fort,  which  distributed  relief  and  set  up  a  safe  haven  in  north- 
ern Iraq  whose  security  was  guaranteed  by  a  coalition  force  of 
2,000  soldiers  from  five  countries.  Incirlik  served  as  the  base 
for  a  rapid  deployment  of  air  forces  to  enforce  a  no-fly  zone  in 
the  region. 

The  Iraqi  government's  loss  of  control  over  Iraqi  Kurdistan 
and  elections  in  the  area  in  May  1992  produced  what  was  in 
effect  an  autonomous  Kurdish  government.  Although  Turkey 
permitted  the  lifeline  to  the  Iraqi  Kurdish  enclave  to  originate 
on  its  territory,  the  Turks  feared  what  they  saw  as  the  emerging 
outlines  of  an  independent  Kurdish  state  in  Iraq.  For  this  rea- 
son, Turkey  resisted  any  international  action  that  could  lead  to 
Iraq's  dismemberment  and  thus  endanger  the  regional  status 
quo. 

Syria 

Several  disputes  make  relations  between  Syria  and  Turkey 
uneasy.  However,  Syria's  limited  military  potential  and  the 
alignment  of  Syrian  forces  on  the  Israeli  front  preclude  any 
immediate  threat  along  the  900-kilometer  border  between  Tur- 
key and  Syria. 

Syria  has  never  abandoned  its  claim  to  the  Turkish  province 
of  Hatay,  which  includes  the  city  of  Iskenderun.  France,  the 
mandatory  power  over  Syria  from  1920  to  1941,  ceded  the  area 
to  Turkey  in  1939  after  a  disputed  plebiscite,  in  violation  of  its 
League  of  Nations  mandate. 

Tensions  with  Syria  are  compounded  by  Turkey's  control 
over  distribution  of  the  waters  of  the  Euphrates  River.  Turkey's 
huge  Southeast  Anatolian  Project,  with  its  dams  and  hydroelec- 
tric plants,  threatens  to  deplete  Syria's  water  resources.  In  addi- 
tion, Syria  has  a  history  of  permitting  hostile  political 
movements — Armenian,  Marxist,  and  Kurdish — to  conduct 
anti-Turkish  operations  from  Syrian-controlled  territory  in 
Lebanon's  Bekaa  Valley.  To  a  considerable  degree,  the  issues  of 
access  to  water  and  Syria's  support  for  the  Kurdish  insurgency 
are  linked.  To  the  extent  that  Turkey  attempts  to  accommodate 
Syria  on  water  sharing,  Syria  limits  its  backing  of  the  Kurds.  In 
December  1993,  the  Syrian  government  took  into  custody  the 
Kurdish  rebel  leader,  Abdullah  Ocalan,  in  what  was  seen  as  an 
attempt  to  strengthen  Syria's  hand  in  water  negotiations. 

Iran 

Frictions  with  the  Tehran  government  stem  largely  from 


316 


National  Security 


competing  philosophies — the  secularism  at  the  root  of  the 
Turkish  system  and  the  Shia  (see  Glossary)  orientation  of  Iran. 
The  Turkish  government  has  refrained  from  accusing  Iran  of 
direct  responsibility  for  incidents  of  Islamist  terrorism.  How- 
ever, the  Turkish  minister  of  interior  declared  in  1993  that  the 
perpetrators  of  a  series  of  murders  of  well-known  secularist  fig- 
ures had  been  trained  in  Iran  and  helped  by  the  staff  of  the  Ira- 
nian Cultural  Center  in  Ankara.  Turkey  considers  such  attacks 
a  threat  to  national  security  because  the  government  and  laws 
of  the  modern  Turkish  state  are  so  closely  identified  with  its 
secular  tradition. 

Another  source  of  potential  tension  is  Turkey's  support  of 
Azerbaijan  in  its  conflict  with  Armenia.  Tehran  fears  that  a 
nationalistic  Azerbaijan  friendly  to  Turkey  could  encourage 
unrest  in  northern  Iran,  which  has  a  considerable  Azerbaijani 
population.  Turkey  estimates  that  about  800  Kurdish  guerrillas 
are  based  in  Iranian  territory.  Tehran  has  denied  supporting 
them,  and  in  December  1993  the  two  countries  announced 
that  an  agreement  had  been  reached  to  prevent  the  guerrillas 
from  using  Iran  as  a  sanctuary. 

The  Balkans 

As  the  principal  successor  state  to  the  Ottoman  Empire, 
which  controlled  the  Balkans  for  centuries  until  its  defeat  in 
the  Balkan  Wars  of  1912-13,  Turkey  retains  a  keen  interest  in 
the  fate  of  the  Muslims  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia  (FYROM — the  name  under 
which  independent  Macedonia  was  recognized  by  the  United 
Nations  in  1993),  and  Albania.  Turkey  opposed  the  dissolution 
of  Yugoslavia,  fearing  the  resulting  instability  could  create 
broader  regional  conflict.  With  the  outbreak  of  war  in  Bosnia 
in  1992  and  Serbian  human  rights  violations,  Turkey  advocated 
Western  military  measures  to  contain  the  Serbs.  It  pressed  for 
an  end  to  the  UN  arms  embargo  to  enable  Bosnian  Muslims  to 
defend  themselves  more  effectively  against  Serbian  attack.  Tur- 
key contributed  ships  to  the  NATO  naval  force  blockading  Ser- 
bia and  Montenegro  and  dispatched  a  squadron  of  eighteen  F- 
16  aircraft  to  Italy  to  help  enforce  the  no-fly  zone  over  Bosnia. 
Unilateral  Turkish  military  aid  to  Bosnia  was  impractical 
because  of  the  interposition  of  Greek  and  Bulgarian  territory 
in  between.  A  Turkish  offer  of  troops  to  the  UN  Protection 
Force  in  Bosnia  was  at  first  rejected  by  the  UN  Security  Council 
because  of  Ankara's  strong  sympathies  for  the  Bosnian  Muslims 


317 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

and  memories  of  the  Ottoman  role  in  the  Balkans.  In  April 
1994,  however,  after  experiencing  difficulties  in  obtaining 
force  commitments,  the  UN  accepted  a  Turkish  deployment  of 
about  1,500  soldiers  in  spite  of  objections  by  the  Bosnian  Serbs, 
Serbia,  Greece,  and  Bulgaria. 

Albania  also  is  receiving  attention  from  Turkey.  Once  Alba- 
nia ended  its  long  isolation  as  a  Stalinist  state,  Turkey  proposed 
military  cooperation  accords  that  included  officer  training. 
The  possibility  of  Serbian  action  against  FYROM,  whose  inde- 
pendence Turkey  recognized,  and  against  Kosovo,  a  Serbian 
province  largely  populated  by  Albanians,  is  a  concern  of  both 
Albania  and  Turkey.  It  seems  unlikely,  however,  that  Turkish 
military  help  will  be  forthcoming  if  the  conflict  in  former  Yugo- 
slavia widens  to  Kosovo  and  FYROM. 

Mutual  distrust  has  long  characterized  Turkey's  relations 
with  Bulgaria,  which,  like  Greece,  has  a  short  but  strategically 
significant  border  with  Turkish  Thrace,  the  European  region 
of  Turkey.  A  major  cause  of  friction  was  the  Balkanization  pro- 
gram instituted  by  the  communist  government  of  Bulgaria, 
which  caused  a  mass  migration  of  Bulgarian  Turks  to  Turkey  in 
the  spring  of  1989.  After  the  communists  fell  in  late  1989,  Tur- 
key moved  to  improve  its  security  ties  to  Bulgaria's  new  govern- 
ment. A  series  of  agreements  were  reached  on  formal 
notification  of  military  movements,  exchanges  of  military  visits, 
and  the  establishment  of  a  military  security  zone  extending 
sixty  to  eighty  kilometers  on  each  side  of  the  common  border. 
Talks  were  also  held  in  1993  on  cooperating  in  the  production 
of  military  equipment,  and  the  two  countries  conducted  a  joint 
military  exercise  with  Romania. 

Greece  and  Cyprus 

In  their  first  foreign  combat  operations  since  the  Korean 
War,  Turkish  troops  intervened  in  Cyprus  in  1974  with  the  pro- 
fessed aim  of  protecting  the  Turkish  minority  population  after 
a  Greek-inspired  coup  brought  a  threat  of  union  of  the  island 
with  Greece.  Against  determined  resistance  by  the  lightly 
armed  Greek  Cypriot  National  Guard,  the  Turkish  troops  occu- 
pied the  northern  third  of  the  island.  The  Turkish  intervention 
force,  which  consisted  of  about  40,000  soldiers  and  200  tanks, 
subsequently  was  reduced  to  a  garrison  of  30,000  troops.  It 
greatly  outnumbers  the  contingent  of  Greek  national  forces  on 
the  island,  which  is  supplemented  by  the  Greek  Cypriot 


318 


National  Security 


National  Guard.  Air  reinforcement  of  the  Turkish  troops  can 
be  effected,  if  necessary,  within  hours. 

Ankara  does  not  consider  Cyprus  one  of  its  most  pressing 
security  issues  because  of  Turkey's  military  superiority  over 
Greece  and  the  more  serious  strategic  problems  posed  in  the 
east.  Nevertheless,  the  unresolved  dispute  over  Cyprus  compli- 
cates Turkish  participation  in  NATO  and  remains  an  obstacle 
to  NATO's  effectiveness  in  the  region.  In  addition,  the  question 
of  the  rights  of  120,000  Muslims  of  Turkish  ancestry  in  Grecian 
Thrace  arouses  Turkish  sympathies,  contributing  to  long-stand- 
ing distrust  between  Greece  and  Turkey. 

Other  differences  between  the  two  NATO  members  contrib- 
ute to  contention.  Greece,  basing  its  claim  on  the  Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  passed  by  the  UN  in  November  1994, 
which  extends  territorial  waters  from  six  to  twelve  nautical 
miles,  seeks  to  claim  this  limit  around  each  of  the  more  than 
2,000  Greek  islands  in  the  Aegean  Sea.  Such  a  claim,  if  imple- 
mented, would  give  Greece  about  70  percent  of  the  Aegean 
Sea.  Greece  also  claims  a  ten-nautical-mile  airspace  around 
each  island.  Turkish  military  aircraft  and  ships  do  not  respect 
these  claims.  In  addition,  Turkey  claims  an  Exclusive  Economic 
Zone  that  is  disputed  by  Greece. 

Turkey  maintains  the  Aegean  Army,  a  force  separate  from 
its  NATO-committed  troops,  ostensibly  to  defend  the  south- 
western coastal  areas.  The  force  is  a  response  to  Greece's  milita- 
rization of  its  islands  close  to  the  Turkish  coast,  which  Turkey 
asserts  violates  the  1923  Treaty  of  Lausanne  that  set  Turkey's 
present  borders.  The  Aegean  Army  is  considered  a  largely  sym- 
bolic force;  most  of  the  troops  assigned  to  it  are  kept  in  train- 
ing status. 

Turkey's  Participation  in  NATO 

Turkey's  decision  to  seek  Western  assistance  after  being  con- 
fronted by  Soviet  territorial  demands  at  the  conclusion  of 
World  War  II  and  its  subsequent  participation  in  NATO's  col- 
lective defense  system  have  been  the  principal  factors  influenc- 
ing the  country's  modern  military  evolution.  In  1950  Turkey 
demonstrated  its  gratitude  for  the  military  aid  received  from 
the  United  States  when  it  sent  a  brigade  of  4,500  troops  to 
serve  under  the  UN  command  in  Korea.  The  brigade  became 
known  for  its  valor  on  the  battlefield  after  suffering  propor- 
tionately the  highest  casualty  rates  of  any  UN  element  engaged 
in  the  fighting. 


319 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Turkey's  admission  to  NATO,  effective  in  February  1952, 
was  preceded  by  extensive  study  and  debate  of  the  strategy  of 
extending  the  alliance's  southern  flank  to  include  the  eastern 
Mediterranean.  Changes  were  needed  in  the  wording  of  the 
treaty  to  expand  its  territorial  reach  to  include  Turkey.  The 
admission  of  Turkey  gave  NATO  a  much  longer  land  frontier 
with  the  Warsaw  Pact  (see  Glossary),  as  well  as  a  treaty  interest 
in  Turkey's  Black  Sea  coast  and  the  straits  through  which  the 
Soviet  Union  had  access  to  the  Mediterranean.  At  the  same 
time,  Turkey  brought  to  the  alliance  its  second  largest  body  of 
military  manpower  after  that  of  the  United  States,  in  addition 
to  access  to  sites  for  forward  deployment  and  intelligence  gath- 
ering. 

Under  the  provisions  of  the  alliance,  most  of  the  Turkish 
armed  forces  are  committed  to  NATO  command  in  the  event 
of  hostilities.  Turkish  land,  sea,  and  air  units  then  come  under 
the  Commander  in  Chief  Allied  Forces  Southern  Europe 
(AFSOUTH),  with  headquarters  in  Naples.  The  largest  of 
NATO's  four  military  regions,  AFSOUTH  encompasses  Italy, 
Greece,  Turkey,  the  Black  Sea,  and  the  Mediterranean  Sea 
(including  the  Adriatic  Sea,  the  Aegean  Sea,  the  Ionian  Sea, 
and  the  Tyrrhenian  Sea).  AFSOUTH  develops  joint  contin- 
gency plans  and  conducts  training  exercises  of  assigned  units. 

One  of  the  five  principal  subordinate  commands  under 
AFSOUTH,  the  Allied  Land  Forces  Southeastern  Europe 
(LANDSOUTHEAST)  is  headquartered  at  Izmir  under  a  Turk- 
ish lieutenant  general,  with  a  United  States  general  officer  as 
deputy.  About  90  percent  of  Turkish  land  forces  are  committed 
to  this  command.  The  two  other  commands  with  Turkish 
forces  assigned  to  them  are  Allied  Air  Forces  Southern  Europe 
(AIRSOUTH),  under  a  United  States  general  officer,  and 
Allied  Naval  Forces  Southern  Europe  (NAVSOUTH),  under 
command  of  an  Italian  vice  admiral.  Both  commands  have 
headquarters  in  the  Naples  area.  Still  under  dispute  is  the  mat- 
ter of  establishing  LANDSOUTHCENT  in  Larissa,  Greece.  Ini- 
tially, Turkey  agreed  and  Greece  objected,  but  in  early  1995 
Turkey  objected  unless  a  Turkish  general  were  to  command 
the  center. 

Important  air,  naval,  and  intelligence-gathering  facilities  are 
made  available  on  Turkish  soil  to  United  States  combat  aircraft 
and  to  units  of  the  United  States  Sixth  Fleet  committed  to 
NATO  (see  Military  Cooperation  with  the  United  States,  this 
ch.).  A  detachment  of  NATO's  Airborne  Early  Warning  Force 


320 


National  Security 


was  installed  at  the  Konya  Air  Base  in  southwestern  Turkey  in 
1983,  using  NATO-owned  Airborne  Warning  and  Control  Sys- 
tem (AWACS)  aircraft  to  provide  low-level  radar  coverage  and 
regional  air  and  sea  surveillance. 

In  the  mid-1990s,  Turkey  allocated  a  mechanized  infantry 
division  consisting  of  one  mechanized  brigade  and  one 
armored  brigade,  as  well  as  one  combat  engineering  company, 
to  the  Allied  Command  Europe  Rapid  Reaction  Force  formed 
as  part  of  NATO's  restructuring.  One  commando  brigade  was 
earmarked  for  the  southern  multinational  division,  along  with 
brigades  from  Italy  and  Greece.  These  forces  remain  under 
national  command  at  their  home  bases  until  released  to 
NATO. 

Despite  rapid  changes  in  the  European  security  environ- 
ment that  have  replaced  the  NATO-Warsaw  Pact  confrontation 
with  a  less  definable  set  of  missions  for  the  alliance,  Turkey 
remains  a  strong  partisan  of  the  NATO  linkage.  Turkish  partic- 
ipation gives  the  country  a  voice  in  major  strategic  decisions  by 
Western  democracies  and  a  framework  for  multilateral  cooper- 
ation in  matters  critical  to  its  own  security.  Nevertheless,  with 
NATO  strategy  based  on  the  management  of  multidimensional 
threats  rather  than  deterrence  of  the  now-defunct  Soviet 
Union,  and  with  the  admission  of  former  members  of  the  War- 
saw Pact  into  a  partnership  relation  with  NATO,  the  impor- 
tance of  Turkey  to  European  security  has  become  less  obvious. 
From  a  Turkish  perspective,  the  protection  of  Turkey's  eastern 
borders  demands  a  continued  high  level  of  NATO  involve- 
ment. In  the  shifting  European  security  order,  however,  Tur- 
key's geostrategic  position  could  become  a  liability,  potentially 
exposing  the  alliance  to  military  action  in  an  area  where  its 
commitments  are  ill  defined. 

Armed  Forces 

Composed  of  elements  of  regular  cadre  and  conscripts,  the 
armed  forces  in  1994  had  an  active-duty  strength  estimated  by 
The  Military  Balance,  1994-1995  at  503,800  officers  and  enlisted 
personnel.  Of  this  total,  some  93,600  were  regulars  in  career 
assignments;  the  remaining  410,200  were  draftees.  The  staffing 
level  already  had  been  reduced  by  6  percent  from  that  in  1990 
as  a  consequence  of  forces  reorganization. 

Article  117  of  the  constitution  stipulates  that  the  president 
of  the  republic  is  the  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces. 
Responsibility  for  ensuring  security  and  military  preparedness 


321 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


is  delegated  to  the  prime  minister  and  the  Council  of  Ministers 
(the  cabinet),  who  are  appointed  by  the  president  but  are  sub- 
ject to  a  legislative  vote  of  confidence.  Article  118  of  the  consti- 
tution prescribes  that  the  National  Security  Council  (NSC — see 
Glossary)  shall  submit  its  views  to  the  Council  of  Ministers  on 
pending  decisions  and  shall  coordinate  the  formulation,  estab- 
lishment, and  implementation  of  the  state's  national  security 
policy.  A  joint  body  of  the  chief  civilian  and  military  officials 
concerned  with  national  defense  and  internal  security,  the 
NSC  meets  twice  monthly.  Its  meetings  are  chaired  by  the  pres- 
ident or,  in  his  or  her  absence,  by  the  prime  minister  (see  fig. 
14). 

In  the  view  of  one  Turkish  observer,  the  NSC  has  not  been 
particularly  successful  as  a  forum  for  the  armed  forces  and  the 
government  to  debate  and  agree  on  security  policies.  At  the 
meetings,  the  military  speaks  with  a  single  voice,  having  worked 
out  differences  beforehand.  Such  unanimity  is  not  conducive 
to  an  open  dialogue,  yet  the  military  is  disappointed  when  it 
fails  to  elicit  concrete  responses  from  the  civilian  leadership. 
Civilians  sometimes  have  found  the  military  insensitive  to  the 
government's  problems  in  dealing  with  the  bureaucracy,  parlia- 
ment, and  the  public  when  facing  difficult  decisions. 

The  constitution  designates  the  chief  of  the  General  Staff  as 
the  commander  of  the  armed  forces.  In  wartime  that  officer 
also  exercises  the  duties  of  commander  in  chief  on  behalf  of 
the  president.  The  chief  of  the  General  Staff  is  appointed  by 
the  president  upon  nomination  by  the  Council  of  Ministers 
and  is  responsible  to  the  prime  minister  in  the  exercise  of  his 
duties.  In  early  1995,  the  chief  of  the  General  Staff  was  General 
Ismail  Hakki  Karadayi,  who  was  appointed  in  August  1994.  The 
extensive  authority  of  the  Turkish  chief  of  the  General  Staff 
contrasts  strikingly  with  that  of  his  counterparts  in  most  NATO 
countries.  He  holds  one  of  the  highest  positions  in  the  govern- 
ment after  the  prime  minister  and  is  chosen  strictly  on  the  basis 
of  seniority.  As  of  1994,  the  chief  of  the  General  Staff  had 
always  been  an  army  officer,  although  an  air  force  or  naval  offi- 
cer might  also  be  selected. 

By  law  the  chief  of  the  General  Staff  determines  the  princi- 
ples and  policies  of  major  programs  concerned  with  opera- 
tions, training,  intelligence,  and  logistics.  His  views  must  be 
sought  with  respect  to  the  military  implications  of  proposed 
international  treaties.  He  has  the  final  say  in  the  allocation  of 
the  military  budget  among  programs  and  service  branches. 


322 


National  Security 


The  General  Staff,  a  prestigious  body  that  implements  the 
decisions  and  guidance  of  the  chief  of  the  General  Staff,  in 
effect  constitutes  a  joint  headquarters  with  authority  over  the 
commanders  of  the  service  branches.  It  thus  differs  materially 
from  the  United  States  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff,  who  act  as  the 
immediate  military  staff  of  the  secretary  of  defense,  subject  to 
the  latter's  authority  and  direction,  and  whose  chair  functions 
as  presiding  officer  and  spokesperson  for  the  service  com- 
manders. The  Turkish  General  Staff  headquarters  is  adminis- 
tered by  the  deputy  chief  of  the  General  Staff,  who  is 
responsible  for  preparing  directives  representing  orders  ema- 
nating from  the  General  Staff,  and  for  assuring  their  proper 
implementation. 

The  General  Staff  organization  follows  the  same  pattern  as 
the  United  States  system  in  most  respects.  Its  departments  are 
J-l  (personnel,  including  appointments  and  promotions),  J-2 
(internal  and  foreign  intelligence),  J-3  (operations,  training, 
organization,  war  planning,  and  exercises),  J-4  (logistics),  J-5 
(strategic-military  policies,  threat  planning,  targeting,  budget 
allocations,  and  military  agreements),  J— 6  (communications 
and  electronics),  andJ-7  (studies  of  military  history  and  strat- 
egy) .  The  Turkish  representative  to  NATO  and  the  Turkish  mil- 
itary representative  to  the  Supreme  Headquarters  Allied 
Powers  Europe  (SHAPE)  are  both  attached  to  the  office  of  the 
deputy  chief  of  the  General  Staff. 

A  separate  body,  the  Supreme  Military  Council,  consists  of 
eighteen  members,  including  the  prime  minister  as  chair,  the 
chief  of  the  General  Staff  as  vice  chair,  the  minister  of  national 
defense,  the  three  service  commanders,  and  other  command- 
ers of  four-star  rank.  All  promotions  and  other  appointments 
to  higher  military  positions  are  decided  in  this  council,  as  are 
many  internal  policy  matters  affecting  the  military  services.  In 
practice,  the  chief  of  the  General  Staff  initiates  the  appoint- 
ments of  service  chiefs  after  consulting  the  civilian  leadership 
and  promotions  to  general  rank  after  consulting  the  respective 
service  chiefs. 

The  Ministry  of  National  Defense  executes  defense  policies 
and  programs  determined  by  the  chief  of  the  General  Staff 
with  respect  to  conscription,  procurement  of  weapons  and 
equipment,  logistical  needs,  and  other  services  such  as  health 
care,  construction,  infrastructure,  and  finances  and  auditing. 
The  ministry  compiles,  coordinates,  and  steers  the  annual  bud- 
get request  through  the  National  Assembly.  The  ministry  is 


323 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


324 


National  Security 


responsible  for  negotiating  with  other  countries  for  military 
assistance  and  arms  supplies  but  is  not  involved  in  discussions 
concerning  the  allocation  of  foreign  aid  among  the  service 
branches.  The  Ministry  of  National  Defense  reflects  lesser  civil- 
ian influence  than  its  United  States  counterpart;  many  ministry 
staff  officers  are  military  officers,  and  the  undersecretary  of 
national  defense  is  a  general  on  active  duty. 

Defense  Spending 

The  high  cost  of  maintaining  a  credible  military  establish- 
ment in  an  age  of  rapidly  changing  technology  has  required 
heavy  expenditures  by  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense  in  rela- 
tion to  other  demands  on  the  government's  revenue.  As  a 
result,  the  Turkish  government  has  allocated  funds  to  defense 
in  disproportion  to  widely  acknowledged  needs  for  social  and 
economic  development.  In  the  decade  between  1981  and  1991, 
defense  was  the  largest  category  in  the  national  budget,  averag- 
ing in  most  years  close  to  20  percent  of  total  government 
expenditures  and  4  to  5  percent  of  the  country's  gross  domes- 
tic product  (GDP — see  Glossary).  The  next  largest  budget  cate- 
gory— education — commanded  little  more  than  half  of  the 
resources  earmarked  for  defense. 

Until  the  mid-1970s,  the  military  budget  covered  only  the 
domestic  cost  of  maintaining  the  large  armed  forces  establish- 
ment; most  equipment  costs  and  much  of  the  expense  of  train- 
ing military  specialists  were  borne  by  the  United  States.  A  sharp 
increase  in  defense  spending  by  Turkey  itself  was  necessitated 
by  the  1974  intervention  in  Cyprus.  The  immediate  cost  of  the 
Cyprus  operation,  estimated  at  between  US$350  million  and 
US$700  million,  was  overshadowed  by  the  burden  of  compen- 
sating for  the  embargo  on  military  assistance  imposed  by  the 
United  States  until  1978. 

The  Defense  Industry  Support  Fund,  which  is  separate  from 
the  regular  defense  budget,  finances  a  US$15  billion  military 
modernization  program  with  earmarked  taxes  and  assess- 
ments. The  modernization  fund  is  supplemented  by  a  so-called 
Gulf  Fund  of  grants  from  Saudi  Arabia,  Kuwait,  the  United 
Arab  Emirates,  and  the  United  States  to  compensate  Turkey  for 
the  cost  of  maintaining  the  embargo  against  Iraq  and  the  lost 
income  from  the  closing  of  the  Kirkuk-Yumurtalik  oil  pipeline. 
By  1993  the  Gulf  Fund  had  accumulated  more  than  US$4.8  bil- 
lion (see  Domestic  Arms  Industry,  this  ch.). 


325 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

According  to  NATO  estimates,  personnel  expenditures  con- 
stituted almost  exactly  50  percent  of  total  defense  expenditures 
in  1993.  Equipment  expenditures  made  up  25  percent  of  the 
total,  infrastructure  expenditures  3.2  percent,  and  other  oper- 
ating expenses  the  remaining  21.6  percent.  The  share  of  the 
budget  going  to  personnel  was  lower  than  in  most  NATO  coun- 
tries, although  higher  than  in  the  United  States  (38.6  percent 
in  1993).  Low-paid  conscripts  who  make  up  the  bulk  of  the 
armed  forces  accounted  for  only  11  percent  of  overall  person- 
nel costs. 

Equipment  purchases  absorbed  9.2  percent  of  defense  out- 
lays from  1980  to  1984  and  18.2  percent  from  1985  to  1989. 
Such  expenditures  rose  to  25.6  percent  in  1993  because  Turkey 
was  obliged  to  assume  an  increasing  share  of  the  cost  of  new 
armaments,  munitions,  and  supplies. 

United  States  and  German  aid  has  been  indispensable  to 
Turkey's  efforts  to  introduce  advanced  weapons  systems. 
United  States  assistance  has  enabled  Turkey  to  continue  its 
modernization  program  in  spite  of  the  weakness  of  the  Turkish 
lira  (for  value  of  the  lira — see  Glossary).  The  aid  reached  a 
high  level  during  the  Persian  Gulf  crisis,  but  tapered  off  with 
the  end  of  the  Cold  War,  its  basis  shifting  from  grants  to  con- 
cessionary loans. 

The  Military  Balance,  1994-1995  has  estimated  the  Turkish 
defense  budget  at  US$4.1  billion  in  1992,  US$4.5  billion  in 
1993,  and  US$4.6  billion  in  1994.  Based  on  the  NATO  defini- 
tion of  military  spending,  the  1992  budget  was  US$6.1  billion, 
the  1993  budget  US$7.1  billion,  and  the  1994  budget  US$7.3 
billion.  Separate  data  published  by  the  United  States  Arms 
Control  and  Disarmament  Agency  (ACDA)  depict  moderate 
real  growth  in  Turkey's  actual  defense  spending  during  most  of 
the  1980s,  from  US$3.19  billion  in  1981  to  US$4.13  billion  in 
1989  (both  expressed  in  constant  1991  dollars).  Expenditures 
rose  sharply  to  US$5.2  billion  in  1990  and  US$5.7  billion  in 
1991,  largely  as  a  result  of  the  Persian  Gulf  War.  The  shrinkage 
of  the  armed  forces  was  expected  eventually  to  produce  econo- 
mies, but  the  initial  effect  was  an  increase  in  the  defense  bud- 
get to  acquire  and  support  more  advanced  weapons. 

The  country's  economic  sacrifice  in  building  a  strong 
defense  establishment  has  been  greater  than  that  of  its  more 
affluent  NATO  partners.  In  1991  Turkey's  military  expendi- 
tures were  5.4  percent  of  gross  national  product  (GNP — see 
Glossary);  this  was  roughly  the  same  proportion  as  a  decade 


326 


National  Security 


earlier,  although  defense  spending  had  dropped  to  as  low  as 
3.9  percent  of  GNP  in  1988.  Military  spending  constituted  20.3 
percent  of  total  central  government  expenditures  in  1990  and 
17.9  percent  in  1991  by  ACDA's  calculations.  The  budget  of  the 
Ministry  of  National  Defense,  which  excludes  some  defense- 
related  costs,  was  10.4  percent  of  the  entire  budget  in  1993  and 
was  scheduled  to  fall  to  9.4  percent  in  1994.  Within  NATO  only 
the  United  States  expended  a  larger  percentage  of  government 
outlays  on  defense,  and  only  Greece  spent  as  high  a  share  of 
GNP  on  defense.  However,  Turkey's  defense  expenditures  per 
capita,  amounting  to  US$97  annually,  were  the  lowest  among 
NATO  countries. 

Sources  and  Quality  of  Personnel 

As  expressed  in  Article  72  of  the  constitution,  "National  ser- 
vice is  the  right  and  duty  of  every  Turk.  The  manner  in  which 
this  service  shall  be  performed,  or  considered  as  performed, 
either  in  the  armed  forces  or  in  the  public  service,  shall  be  reg- 
ulated by  law."  The  required  period  of  active-duty  service  has 
been  scaled  back  periodically,  from  two  years  to  eighteen 
months  and,  in  1992,  to  fifteen  months.  Male  citizens  who  pass 
a  physical  examination  are  called  up  during  their  twentieth 
year,  but  induction  can  be  deferred  until  completion  of  an  edu- 
cation program. 

University  and  college  graduates  may  fulfill  their  military 
obligation  as  reserve  officers  with  an  eighteen-month  period  of 
active  service  following  some  previous  preparation  at  their  edu- 
cation institution.  Four  months  of  the  service  period  consist  of 
cadet  training,  followed  by  fourteen  months  of  service  in  the 
branch  to  which  the  individual  is  appointed.  With  the  dwin- 
dling need  for  reserve  officers,  complete  professionalization  of 
the  officer  corps  is  contemplated.  Most  university  graduates 
would  serve  as  conscripts  in  the  regular  army,  but  their  active 
duty  would  be  limited  to  nine  months.  An  exception  would  be 
made  for  graduates  of  technical  universities  who  could  be 
called  up  for  longer  periods  of  specialized  service. 

Reserve  officers  seem  not  to  be  held  in  high  esteem  in  the 
services,  being  regarded  as  less  dependable  than  regulars,  lack- 
ing in  motivation,  and  inadequately  trained.  Regulars  are  reluc- 
tant to  accept  reservists  as  equals  in  personal  and  social 
relations.  Reservists,  on  the  other  hand,  tend  to  look  down  on 
regulars  as  narrowly  educated. 


327 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

After  completing  four  months  of  basic  training,  conscripts 
are  sent  to  their  assigned  units  for  more  training  and  unit  exer- 
cises. Recruits  who  have  graduated  from  senior  high  school  are 
eligible  to  serve  as  sergeants  after  NCO  training.  Promising  but 
less  educated  recruits  can  become  corporals  after  a  two-week 
training  course.  In  1993  a  program  was  introduced  to  increase 
the  number  of  career  NCOs.  The  intent  was  to  enlist  100,000 
regulars  as  privates  and  corporals  in  the  course  of  the  first  year. 
As  inducements,  the  maximum  age  of  enlistment  was  raised 
from  thirty  to  thirty-five,  and  new  financial  and  social  benefits 
were  introduced. 

The  period  of  active  service  is  an  important  educational 
experience  for  many  young  men.  In  addition  to  mastering 
weapons,  they  learn  personal  hygiene,  table  manners,  and  the 
basics  of  social  conduct.  They  receive  a  wholesome  diet  and,  in 
most  cases,  better  medical  and  dental  care  than  they  will  have 
at  any  other  time  in  their  lives.  Literacy  classes  were  formerly 
an  important  feature  of  military  training,  but  by  the  1980s 
fewer  than  5  percent  of  recruits  needed  to  be  taught  to  read 
and  write. 

Many  conscripts  are  taught  useful  skills,  such  as  truck  driving 
and  machinery  repair.  The  army's  training  of  technicians  and 
artisans  may  rival  the  contribution  of  civilian  technical  second- 
ary schools,  which  produce  only  about  100,000  graduates  a 
year. 

Draft  evasion  apparently  had  become  a  serious  problem  by 
the  mid-1990s,  perhaps  because  of  young  men's  reluctance  to 
risk  their  lives  against  Kurdish  insurgents.  In  December  1993, 
the  chief  of  staff  said  that  30  percent  of  all  men  of  draft  age 
had  deferred  their  service  (in  many  cases  in  order  to  complete 
higher  education),  22  percent  were  evading  conscription,  and 
7  percent  were  medically  unfit.  The  total  of  those  who  had 
avoided  conscription  came  to  about  250,000  but,  as  the  chief  of 
staff  pointed  out,  the  armed  forces  did  not  have  facilities  to 
induct  all  these  men  even  if  they  were  available.  Desertions 
were  also  said  to  have  increased,  although  military  leaders  were 
unwilling  to  confirm  this  fact. 

After  completing  their  active-duty  obligation,  conscripts  are 
subject  to  recall  in  periods  of  national  emergency  until  age 
forty-six  if  physically  fit  and  not  otherwise  exempted.  In  prac- 
tice, it  is  only  for  a  few  years  after  discharge  that  conscripts  are 
considered  part  of  the  reserve  system  with  specific  unit  assign- 
ments. In  1994  the  number  in  this  category  was  reported  to  be 


328 


Infantry  exercises  in  Kocaeli  Province 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Turkey,  Washington 

about  952,300  (831,700  in  the  army,  55,600  in  the  navy,  and 
65,000  in  the  air  force). 

Turkey  has  always  had  an  ample  supply  of  personnel  to  meet 
its  military  needs.  In  1994  roughly  3  million  men  were  between 
the  ages  of  eighteen  and  twenty-two.  The  annual  call-up  for  all 
branches  totaled  about  300,000  but  was  likely  to  shrink  rapidly 
with  the  reduction  of  the  army  complement  and  the  effort  to 
enlist  more  regulars.  Nevertheless,  in  January  1994  all  dis- 
charges were  frozen  for  three  months  to  ensure  that  the  army 
had  enough  trained  soldiers  for  operations  against  the  Kurdish 
guerrillas. 

Military  discipline  is  strict.  Turkish  officers  are  taught  to 
believe  that  softness  is  a  sign  of  weakness,  which  soldiers  will 
quickly  take  advantage  of.  Discipline  is  considered  necessary  to 
ensure  quality  performance  and  to  prevent  the  slackness  that 
officers  feel  pervades  the  civilian  labor  force.  Corporal  punish- 
ment is  strictly  prohibited  under  the  Law  of  the  Armed  Ser- 
vices. Yet  beatings  and  slappings,  although  not  common, 
appear  to  be  accepted  forms  of  punishment.  NCOs  and  some- 
times second  lieutenants  are  those  most  likely  to  employ  corpo- 
ral punishment  for  acts  considered  disruptive  of  discipline. 
The  alternative  is  to  institute  legal  proceedings  for  minor 


329 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

offenses.  Such  proceedings  can  be  delayed  so  long  that  they 
have  little  deterrent  effect;  they  may  also  be  perceived  as 
reflecting  poorly  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  officer  involved. 
Major  offenses,  such  as  theft,  desertion,  or  prohibited  ideologi- 
cal activities,  are  normally  the  subject  of  courts-martial. 

From  the  squad  level  up,  soldiers  engage  in  daily  training 
exercises.  The  armed  forces  hold  a  number  of  combined  exer- 
cises and  participate  in  several  NATO  exercises  each  year.  Nev- 
ertheless, in  the  mid-1990s  Turkish  observers  felt  that  the 
quality  of  training  still  suffered  from  shortcomings.  They 
noted,  for  example,  that  training  often  has  a  theoretical  qual- 
ity, traceable  in  part  to  the  need  to  conserve  ammunition,  vehi- 
cles, and  aircraft. 

Since  1955,  when  the  government  opened  certain  military 
specialties  to  women,  moderate  numbers  have  volunteered  for 
active  duty.  Recruitment  of  women  was  suspended  for  a  time 
but  was  resumed  in  the  early  1980s  when  some  female  univer- 
sity graduates  were  again  taken  in  as  pharmacists,  doctors,  den- 
tists, and  administrative  or  communications  specialists.  No 
women  were  accepted  in  the  enlisted  ranks  or  for  assignments 
that  could  expose  them  to  combat  or  hazardous  duty.  In  1992 
access  to  military  service  was  increased  when  154  women  were 
allowed  to  enter  the  service  academies,  half  of  them  as  army 
cadets. 

Education  and  Training 

The  sole  source  of  regular  commissioned  officers  is  the 
army  academy  at  Harbiye,  near  Istanbul;  the  naval  academy  at 
Tuzla,  on  the  Sea  of  Marmara  near  Istanbul;  and  the  air  force 
academy  at  Istanbul.  Cadets  who  complete  officer  training 
receive  commissions  as  second  lieutenants  or  naval  ensigns. 
The  three  services  also  operate  five  military  high  schools,  from 
which  half  or  more  of  the  cadets  are  recruited.  The  selection 
process  is  highly  selective,  based  on  school  grades,  especially  in 
the  sciences,  an  oral  interview  in  which  appearance  and 
demeanor  are  appraised,  graded  fitness  tests,  and  a  confiden- 
tial investigation  of  the  political  background  of  the  applicant 
and  his  or  her  family. 

The  military  high  schools  have  superior  facilities,  and 
classes  are  as  little  as  one-third  the  size  of  those  in  civilian  high 
schools.  Scholastic  performance  is  closely  monitored.  A  sum- 
mer camp  is  devoted  to  sports  and  military  instruction. 


330 


Armed  forces  personnel  engaged  in  landing  exercise 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Turkey,  Washington 

The  selection  process  for  the  military  academies  is  even 
more  rigorous  than  for  the  military  high  schools.  Only  about 
one  in  seven  applicants  is  successful.  A  further  weeding  out 
occurs  after  an  initial  one-month  adaptation  course.  The  acad- 
emies offer  the  opportunity  of  a  free  higher  education  under 
conditions  of  instruction  that  cannot  be  matched  at  civilian 
universities.  Classroom  and  laboratory  equipment  is  much 
superior,  and  sports  facilities  are  unequaled  elsewhere. 

Candidates  for  the  academies  must  be  high-school  gradu- 
ates under  twenty  years  of  age  and  must  have  studied  the  sci- 
ences and  a  foreign  language.  Candidates  must  also  score  well 
in  the  regular  university  entrance  examinations.  An  academy 
appointment  is  not  offered  until  test  scores  are  available.  Appli- 
cants who  score  high  enough  for  a  place  at  a  leading  university 
often  shift  to  a  civilian  career  path.  Each  of  the  service  acade- 


331 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

mies  must  accept  at  least  one  cadet  from  each  of  Turkey's  sev- 
enty-six provinces. 

Founded  on  Prussian  principles  of  military  education,  the 
service  academies  since  the  1950s  have  been  strongly  influ- 
enced by  the  United  States  approach  to  officer  training.  The 
emphasis  of  the  curriculum  has  been  modified  from  time  to 
time,  often  to  ensure  an  acceptable  ideological  outlook  among 
students.  Since  the  late  1970s,  the  curriculum  has  been  56  per- 
cent military,  including  sports,  and  44  percent  academic.  The 
political  and  economic  areas  have  been  strengthened  and  man- 
agerial training  added.  Foreign  languages  are  stressed;  some 
classes  are  taught  in  English.  It  is  estimated  that  20  percent  of 
the  curriculum  is  devoted,  directly  or  indirectly,  to  study  of  the 
principles  and  reforms  of  Ataturk.  Much  attention  is  given  to 
appearance,  social  polish,  and  a  proper  public  deportment. 
Available  books  and  periodicals  have  an  orthodox  outlook;  left- 
wing  and  religious  publications  are  forbidden.  To  limit  expo- 
sure of  cadets  to  political  theories  inconsistent  with  the  Ataturk 
model,  the  academies  permit  conservative  guest  lecturers  only. 
Many  cadets  are  expelled  for  ideological  reasons,  primarily  if 
they  are  suspected  of  leftist  sympathies,  given  that  graduates  of 
Islamic  high  schools  are  not  admitted  in  the  first  place.  The 
role  played  by  the  army  academy  in  the  1960  coup  and  in  the 
abortive  coup  of  1962  led  to  the  expulsion  of  1,400  cadets,  as  a 
result  of  which  there  were  no  army  graduating  classes  in  1963 
and  1964. 

The  most  prestigious  training  assignment  for  career  officers 
is  to  one  of  the  staff  academies,  which  usually  occurs  after 
about  six  years  of  service,  at  the  rank  of  captain  or  the  equiva- 
lent. There  are  separate  land,  air,  and  naval  staff  academies, 
but  they  share  a  location  in  an  Istanbul  suburb.  The  staff  acad- 
emies constitute  a  self-sufficient  town  with  modern  accommo- 
dations for  all  officers,  day  care  for  the  children  of  officers 
whose  spouses  have  jobs,  and  complete  sports  facilities. 

Only  120  to  130  officers  are  accepted  into  the  staff  acade- 
mies each  year  for  the  two-year  program.  About  60  percent  of 
the  curriculum  is  devoted  to  military  subjects — the  principles 
of  war,  strategy,  and  weapons  technology — and  the  remainder 
to  administrative  and  management  skills  and  general  cultural 
subjects  at  a  postgraduate  level.  An  officer  completing  the 
course  is  credited  with  an  extra  three  years  of  seniority,  receives 
a  higher  salary,  progresses  faster,  and  is  more  likely  to  be 


332 


National  Security 


offered  a  coveted  foreign  posting.  About  75  percent  of  those 
reaching  the  rank  of  general  are  staff  officers. 

Within  ten  years  of  commissioning,  staff  officers  who  have 
attained  the  rank  of  major  or  lieutenant  colonel  or  their  equiv- 
alents are  expected  to  attend  the  Armed  Forces  Academy.  This 
academy  has  a  program  twice  a  year  for  about  seventy-five  staff 
officers  in  subjects  such  as  joint  operations,  campaign  plan- 
ning, strategy,  global  conflict,  and  new  concepts  and  doctrines. 

A  five-month  course  is  presented  once  a  year  at  the  National 
Security  Academy  to  twenty  civilians  and  ten  officers,  usually 
colonels  and  sometimes  brigadier  generals  or  the  equivalent. 
The  civilians  typically  include  high-level  civil  servants,  ambassa- 
dors, provincial  governors,  and  subgovernors.  Presented  in 
seminar  form,  the  program  deals  with  international  political, 
economic,  and  military  trends,  joint  planning,  and  national 
security  problems.  Like  the  staff  academies,  the  Armed  Forces 
Academy  and  the  National  Security  Academy  are  located  out- 
side Istanbul. 

Conditions  of  Service 

The  average  military  academy  graduate  serves  at  least  ten 
years  in  the  three  lowest  officer  grades  in  a  combination  of 
training  and  field  assignments  as  a  platoon  or  company  com- 
mander. The  pace  of  promotion  is  usually  fairly  steady  through 
the  rank  of  colonel  or  its  equivalent,  assuming  satisfactory  per- 
formance reports  graded  by  three  superior  officers.  A  particu- 
larly high  rating  can  advance  a  promotion  by  a  year.  In  normal 
times,  an  army  officer  can  expect  at  least  two  "eastern"  assign- 
ments, once  while  a  lieutenant  or  captain  and  once  between 
the  ranks  of  major  and  colonel  or  their  equivalents.  A  post  in 
eastern  Turkey  is  considered  undesirable  because  of  its  isola- 
tion, the  severe  weather,  and  the  lack  of  medical  and  education 
facilities  for  families.  Since  the  early  1990s,  a  much  larger  part 
of  the  army  has  been  deployed  in  the  east  to  deal  with  the  Kur- 
dish insurgency.  Personal  influence  has  little  effect  on  where 
people  in  the  military  are  posted. 

Most  career  officers  can  expect  to  retire  with  the  rank  of 
colonel  or  the  equivalent.  With  the  number  of  generals  and 
admirals  ranging  between  280  and  300,  only  forty-eight  of  the 
hundreds  of  colonels  and  navy  captains  are  promoted  to  flag 
rank  each  year.  People  being  considered  for  general  officer 
rank  are  subjected  to  a  minute  review  of  their  entire  service 
record.  General  officers  must  not  be  involved  in  political  activi- 


333 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

ties  and  must  show  discretion  and  conservatism  in  social  and 
domestic  life.  Treated  with  great  deference  in  civilian  society, 
general  officers  are  entitled  to  full-time  use  of  an  official  car 
and  chauffeur,  as  well  as  the  services  of  an  adjutant  and  several 
orderlies.  Protocol  activities  take  up  much  of  a  general  officer's 
time.  A  general  serving  as  a  field  commander  exercises  author- 
ity and  responsibility  comparable  to  those  of  a  provincial  gover- 
nor. 

Except  during  periods  of  high  inflation,  the  net  salary  of 
career  officers  is  slightly  more  than  the  pay  of  civil  servants  of 
comparable  standing,  although  the  difference  narrows  at 
higher  ranks.  The  living  standards  of  career  officers  clearly  sur- 
pass those  of  other  government  workers  when  special  benefits 
are  included.  Quarters  are  provided  for  more  than  70  percent 
of  permanent  military  personnel.  Rents,  deducted  directly 
from  salaries,  may  be  no  more  than  one-eighth  of  equivalent 
civilian  rents.  Security  and  the  maintenance  of  grounds  and 
buildings,  duties  assigned  to  enlisted  personnel,  are  of  high 
quality. 

Salaries  of  noncareer  soldiers  are  very  low  and  during  the 
first  half  of  the  1990s  were  eroded  by  inflation.  As  of  January 
1994,  the  monthly  wage  of  a  private  was  TL37,000,  then  equiva- 
lent to  only  US$2.25.  A  corporal  earned  TL57,000  and  a  ser- 
geant, TL75,000.  Pensions  for  families  of  soldiers  who  had  died 
in  service  were  minimal;  compensation  for  the  widow  of  a  pri- 
vate came  to  about  US$37  a  month. 

Military  hospitals  provide  medical  care  to  all  active-duty  and 
retired  officers  and  enlisted  personnel  and  their  families. 
Reservists  are  eligible  on  a  space-available  basis.  The  quality  of 
treatment  and  personnel  at  military  hospitals  is  at  least  as  good 
as  at  university  hospitals,  and  superior  to  what  is  available  in 
general  hospitals. 

There  are  officers'  clubs  in  about  forty  of  the  provinces, 
most  with  excellent  facilities  for  leisure  and  recreation,  as  well 
as  temporary  accommodations  for  officers  and  their  families. 
The  clubs  are  heavily  patronized  by  retired  officers  as  well. 
Prices  are  far  lower  than  in  comparable  commercial  establish- 
ments. NCO  clubs  traditionally  were  much  more  modest,  but  a 
program  was  initiated  in  the  mid-1980s  to  bring  them  up  to 
officers'  club  standards.  Twenty-five  rest  camps  enable  service 
members  and  their  families  to  enjoy  two-week  holidays  at  a 
fraction  of  the  cost  of  commercial  resorts.  Accommodations 


334 


National  Security 


are  awarded  on  a  point  system  ensuring  an  opening  at  least 
every  four  years. 

An  unusual  feature  of  the  national  defense  establishment  is 
the  existence  of  a  semiautonomous  foundation  known  as  the 
Army  Mutual  Aid  Association  (Ordu  Yardimlasma  Kurumu — 
OYAK),  which  is  essentially  a  military  social  security  organiza- 
tion. Career  officers  and  warrant  officers  contribute  10  percent 
of  their  basic  salaries  to  the  association's  fund.  Reserve  officers 
contribute  5  percent.  OYAK's  business  activities,  which  include 
holdings  in  eight  major  companies,  have  an  annual  turnover  of 
US$5  billion,  and  are  tax  exempt.  Participants  may  obtain 
housing  loans  from  OYAK  and  may  purchase  homes  built  by 
OYAK's  own  construction  companies  at  prices  well  below  com- 
mercial rates.  Upon  retirement,  OYAK  makes  a  lump  sum  pay- 
ment to  career  (but  not  reserve)  officers,  based  on  the 
members'  investment  plus  accrued  interest  and  dividends. 
OYAK  also  operates  post  exchanges  selling  items  at  15  percent 
below  prices  at  civilian  outlets  and  offering  durable  consumer 
goods  on  highly  favorable  credit  terms. 

Army 

The  army  (officially  referred  to  as  the  Turkish  Land  Forces) 
is  by  far  the  largest  of  the  three  service  components.  During 
1992  the  army  introduced  a  sweeping  reorganization,  shifting 
from  a  predominantly  divisional  and  regimental  structure  to 
one  based  on  corps  and  brigades.  The  personnel  strength  of 
the  army  was  reduced  in  1994  to  about  393,000  (including 
about  345,000  conscripts).  Major  equipment  acquisitions  have 
enabled  the  army  to  upgrade  firepower  and  mobility  while 
enhancing  command  and  control. 

Until  the  dissolution  of  the  Warsaw  Pact  in  1990,  the  army 
had  a  static  defense  mission  of  countering  Soviet  and  Warsaw 
Pact  forces  in  the  Caucasus  and  any  possible  attack  on  Thrace. 
When  the  General  Staff  attempted  to  shift  120,000  troops  to 
the  frontier  with  Iraq  in  1990,  they  discovered  that  there  were 
serious  deficiencies  in  the  army's  ability  to  respond  to  crises 
that  could  erupt  suddenly  in  distant  regions.  The  army  was 
even  less  prepared  for  a  situation  requiring  the  deployment 
and  logistical  support  of  forces  in  operations  beyond  Turkey's 
borders. 

Prior  to  the  army  reorganization,  the  principal  tactical  units 
consisted  of  sixteen  infantry  divisions  and  one  armored  divi- 
sion, plus  twenty-three  independent  brigades,  of  which  six  were 


335 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

armored  and  four  mechanized.  Under  the  reorganization,  all 
divisions  except  three  were  dismantled.  The  existing  nine 
corps  were  retained,  with  brigades  directly  responsible  to  the 
corps  commands.  The  brigades  were  reconfigured  as  seventeen 
mechanized  infantry  brigades,  fourteen  armored  brigades, 
nine  infantry  brigades,  and  four  commando  brigades.  Each 
armored  brigade  consisted  in  late  1994  of  six  battalions:  two 
armored,  two  mechanized,  and  two  artillery.  The  mechanized 
brigades  consisted  of  one  armored  battalion,  two  mechanized 
battalions,  and  one  artillery  battalion,  plus  a  reconnaissance 
squadron.  The  infantry  brigades  consisted  of  four  infantry  bat- 
talions and  one  artillery  battalion.  Each  commando  brigade 
consisted  of  three  commando  battalions  and  one  artillery  bat- 
talion. 

The  Military  Balance,  1994-1995  also  lists  a  Presidential 
Guard  regiment,  an  infantry  regiment,  five  border  defense  reg- 
iments, and  twenty-six  border  defense  battalions.  The  fate  of 
these  independent  units  under  the  reorganization  remained 
unclear  in  early  1995. 

General  Hikmet  Bayar,  the  commander  of  Turkish  land 
forces  in  early  1995,  operated  from  headquarters  in  Ankara. 
The  capital  is  also  the  home  of  the  Ankara  garrison  and  of  the 
training  and  logistics  commands.  The  country  is  divided  into 
four  military  sectors  on  the  basis  of  strategic  conditions  of  ter- 
rain, logistics,  communications,  and  the  potential  external 
threat.  The  sectors  are  assigned  to  four  field  armies,  the  first 
three  of  which  would  come  under  NATO  command  in  the 
event  of  a  NATO  reinforced  alert  (see  fig.  15). 

The  First  Army,  with  headquarters  in  Istanbul,  is  widely 
deployed  in  the  European  part  of  Turkey  known  historically  as 
Thrace,  with  responsibility  for  the  defense  of  that  province,  the 
Bosporus  and  Dardanelles  straits,  and  the  Kocaeli  Peninsula. 
The  Second  Army,  headquartered  at  Malatya,  is  deployed  in 
southeastern  Anatolia  with  a  defensive  mission  facing  Syria, 
Iraq,  and  Iran.  The  Third  Army,  with  headquarters  at  Erzincan, 
is  deployed  throughout  the  rugged  mountains  and  deep  valleys 
of  eastern  Anatolia,  covering  the  borders  with  Georgia  and 
Armenia  and  the  historical  invasion  routes  from  the  east.  Dur- 
ing the  buildup  preceding  the  Persian  Gulf  War,  the  Second 
Army  was  deployed  along  the  Iraqi  border  along  with  some 
units  from  the  Third  Army.  Under  the  new  structure,  most  of 
the  armored,  mechanized,  and  commando  brigades  are 


336 


National  Security 


located  in  the  central  region  with  the  mission  of  rapidly  rein- 
forcing brigades  in  each  theater  as  required. 

The  Aegean  Army  (sometimes  called  the  Fourth  Army)  was 
organized  in  the  mid-1970s  in  response  to  tensions  with  Greece 
in  the  Aegean  Sea.  Headquartered  in  Izmir,  it  is  responsible  for 
the  vast  area  facing  the  Aegean  coast  from  the  Dardanelles  in 
the  north  to  the  southernmost  Greek  offshore  islands.  Turkish 
commanders  describe  the  Aegean  Army  as  composed  simply  of 
training  elements  from  which  the  major  army  units  are  sup- 
plied. They  presumably  would  have  the  mission  of  defending 
the  Aegean  coast  and  keeping  lines  of  communication  open  in 
the  Aegean  district  in  an  emergency,  although  their  capability 
for  this  mission  seems  highly  limited.  The  Turkish  corps  on 
Cyprus  is  within  the  Aegean  Army  command  structure.  Known 
as  the  Cyprus  Turkish  Peace  Force,  it  is  said  in  The  Military  Bal- 
ance, 1994-1995  to  consist  of  30,000  troops,  equipped  with  235 
M-48  tanks,  107  armored  personnel  carriers  (APCs),  and 
numerous  pieces  of  towed  and  self-propelled  artillery. 

In  late  1994,  in  addition  to  1,500  troops  who  served  with  the 
United  Nations  Protection  Force  in  Bosnia,  a  contingent  of 
about  300  Turkish  soldiers  had  participated  in  the  UN  opera- 
tion in  Somalia.  The  overall  commander  of  the  UN  force  in 
Somalia  in  1993  was  Turkish  general  Cevik  Bir. 

Accompanying  the  reorganization  of  the  land  forces  was  a 
significant  upgrading  of  weapons  systems,  armor,  and  trans- 
port. Under  the  NATO  harmonization  program  adopted 
under  the  CFE  Treaty,  considerable  equipment  subject  to 
removal  from  the  central  front  was  passed  on  to  other  NATO 
armies,  notably  those  of  Greece  and  Turkey.  Turkey's  share 
included  more  than  1,000  United  States  M-60  and  German 
Leopard  main  battle  tanks  and  some  700  armored  combat  vehi- 
cles, as  well  as  self-propelled  howitzers  and  United  States  Cobra 
attack  helicopters. 

Under  the  CFE  Treaty,  NATO  and  Soviet  Union/Warsaw 
Pact  countries  also  were  to  reduce  the  size  of  their  conven- 
tional forces.  Russia  has  sought  to  change  this  commitment  on 
the  grounds  that  it  needs  forces  for  "police"  actions  and  to 
assist  former  member  states  of  the  Soviet  Union,  such  as  Arme- 
nia, where  Russian  troops  are  stationed.  Turkey  has  endeav- 
ored to  prevent  Russia's  backing  out  on  its  commitment 
because,  among  other  reasons,  Turkey  shares  a  border  with 
Armenia. 


337 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


338 


National  Security 


In  addition  to  the  arms  received  as  a  result  of  the  CFE 
Treaty,  Turkey's  arsenal  of  more  than  3,000  M-48  tanks  was 
being  upgraded  with  advanced  fire  controls.  By  1994  deliveries 
had  begun  of  armored  infantry  fighting  vehicles,  large  num- 
bers of  which  were  to  be  supplied  under  a  Turkey/United 
States  coproduction  program.  Procurement  of  a  multiple- 
launch  rocket  system  was  proceeding  under  a  similar  program 
(see  table  13,  Appendix  A). 

Turkey  acquired  300  Russian  BTR-60  APCs  for  use  in  the 
struggle  against  the  Kurds  because  weapons  of  NATO  origin 
were  not  approved  for  this  purpose.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  the 
engines  and  transmissions  of  the  BTR-60s  had  to  be  replaced 
after  brief  use,  Ankara  announced  in  1994  that  it  had  acquired 
110  BTR-80s.  These  APCs  were  assigned  to  the  gendarmerie, 
who  were  actively  engaged  in  the  war  against  the  Kurds  (see 
Police  System,  this  ch.). 

More  effective  employment  of  commando  and  infantry 
units  would  become  possible  with  the  United  States  UH-1H 
Iroquois  (of  which  Turkey  had  ninety-six  in  1994)  and  other 
modern  troop-lift  helicopters  entering  the  army  aviation  inven- 
tory. The  addition  of  missile-armed  Cobra  AH-1  (Bell  209) 
assault  helicopters  and  five  Super  Cobras  promised  by  the 
United  States  was  expected  to  improve  antitank  capabilities. 

Air  Force 

The  Turkish  air  force  is  the  youngest  of  the  three  branches 
of  the  armed  services.  Founded  in  1911,  it  saw  action  in  the 
Balkan  Wars  and  World  War  I,  as  well  as  the  War  of  Indepen- 
dence. The  first  Turkish  pilots  were  trained  in  France.  The  air 
force  has  a  high  priority  in  Turkey's  strategic  planning  because 
control  of  the  air  would  be  indispensable  for  successful  defense 
against  a  ground  attack  by  well-equipped  forces.  Moreover, 
reinforcement  and  supply  of  Turkish  ground  forces  by  Turkey's 
NATO  allies  would  not  be  feasible  without  control  of  the  air. 
The  air  force  role  in  interdicting  an  invasion  force  would  be  to 
provide  close  support  of  ground  troops  in  tactical  defensive 
actions  and  to  airlift  troops  and  supplies.  Upon  declaration  of  a 
NATO  reinforced  alert,  the  Turkish  air  force  would  be  commit- 
ted to  action  as  part  of  NATO's  Sixth  Allied  Tactical  Air  Force 
(SIXATAF)  headquartered  at  Izmir. 

In  late  1994,  the  air  force  was  staffed  by  about  56,800  offic- 
ers and  enlisted  personnel.  It  is  organized  around  two  basic 
combat  elements  operating  east  and  west  of  the  thirty-fifth 


339 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

meridian  of  longitude.  The  First  Tactical  Air  Force  has  its  head- 
quarters at  Eskisehir  Air  Base  in  western  Turkey.  It  defends  the 
Turkish  straits  and  provides  air  cover  in  the  First  Army's  area  of 
operations.  The  Second  Tactical  Air  Force,  commanded  from 
its  headquarters  at  Diyarbakir  in  eastern  Turkey,  is  charged 
with  defending  the  Third  Army  and  part  of  the  Second  Army. 
Separate  air  training  and  logistics  commands  with  their  own 
aircraft  squadrons  are  headquartered  at  Ankara.  The  air  trans- 
port units  are  assigned  directly  to  specific  air  force  commands. 
Air  force  headquarters  is  located  at  Ankara;  the  air  force  com- 
mander in  1994  was  General  Halis  Burhan. 

The  air  force  in  late  1994  was  organized  tactically  into  four- 
teen fighter-ground  attack  squadrons,  six  fighter  squadrons, 
four  transport  squadrons,  two  reconnaissance  squadrons,  one 
antisubmarine  warfare  squadron,  and  three  training  squad- 
rons. The  fighter-ground  attack  squadrons  and  three  of  the 
four  transport  squadrons  are  assigned  to  NATO.  There  are 
eight  surface-to-air  missile  (SAM)  squadrons.  In  1994  six  of  the 
SAM  squadrons  were  equipped  with  128  obsolete  United  States 
Nike-Hercules  missiles;  the  remaining  two  were  supplied  with 
twenty-four  Rapier  SAMs  of  British  manufacture.  Many  Turkish 
bases  and  large  cities  are  within  range  of  Russian,  Chinese,  and 
North  Korean  missile  systems  possessed  by  Syria  and  Iran.  Iraq 
supposedly  has  relinquished  its  longer-range  missiles  but  still 
may  have  some  Scud-Bs  from  North  Korea.  Turkish  officers 
acknowledge  their  limited  ability  to  defend  against  these 
threats. 

In  the  mid-1990s,  Turkey  was  phasing  in  advanced  F-16 
fighter  aircraft  produced  domestically  under  a  cooperative  pro- 
gram with  the  General  Dynamics  and  General  Electric  corpora- 
tions.  An  initial  shipment  of  160  aircraft  was  to  be 
supplemented  with  a  second  package  of  eighty  aircraft.  The  F— 
16s  were  to  replace  a  combat  fleet  of  obsolete  F-5s  and  F-104s; 
the  force  also  included  somewhat  more  up-to-date  F-4Es  (see 
table  14,  Appendix  A) . 

In  1994  the  air  force's  fixed-wing  transport  squadrons  con- 
sisted of  United  States-manufactured  C-130E  Hercules  and 
German  C-160D  Transall  medium  transports  and  CN-235 
light  transports.  Fifty-two  CN-235s  coproduced  with  a  Spanish 
manufacturer  have  replaced  the  United  States-manufactured 
C-47s  for  troop-transport  and  cargo  missions. 

Upon  completion  of  the  four-year  air  force  academy  pro- 
gram, air  force  pilots  are  trained  for  two  to  two-and-a-half  years 


340 


National  Security 


on  a  variety  of  United  States  propeller  and  jet  training  aircraft. 
The  Italian  SF-260  coproduced  in  Turkey  is  being  introduced 
as  an  advanced  combat  trainer.  Nonflying  officers  are  trained 
by  the  Air  Technical  Schools  Command.  NCOs  are  also  trained 
in  twelve-  to  eighteen-month  programs  in  administrative  and 
technical  skills  at  specialized  institutions  of  this  command. 

Upgrading  of  the  air  force  flight  inventory  is  expected  to 
include  acquisition  from  the  United  States  of  two  surplus  KC- 
135A  tanker  aircraft — scaled  back  from  seven  for  financial  rea- 
sons— that  would  permit  air  refueling  and  thus  dramatically 
increase  the  range  of  fighter  aircraft.  The  air  force  also  hopes 
to  receive  airborne  early  warning  aircraft  and  airborne  com- 
mand and  control  aircraft.  The  planned  transfer  of  fifty  surplus 
United  States  A-10  attack  aircraft  for  close  support  of  ground 
troops  was  canceled  because  Turkey's  tight  foreign-exchange 
situation  did  not  permit  acquisition  of  the  needed  recondition- 
ing and  support  equipment.  Ankara  considers  the  acquisition 
of  United  States  Patriot  missiles  essential  to  reducing  Turkey's 
vulnerability  to  conventional  air  and  missile  attack,  but  in  early 
1995  such  an  acquisition  did  not  appear  imminent. 

Navy 

Numbering  54,000  individuals  in  late  1994,  nearly  70  per- 
cent conscripts,  the  navy  is  responsible  for  defending  the  coun- 
try against  seaborne  attack  in  time  of  war,  for  safeguarding  the 
Turkish  straits  at  all  times,  and  for  patrol  and  coastal  protection 
along  the  extensive  coastline  that  borders  about  two-thirds  of 
the  nation.  The  navy  has  an  assigned  NATO  role  in  which  it  is 
responsible  to  the  alliance's  commander  of  NAVSOUTH  in 
Naples.  The  commander  of  Turkish  naval  forces  serves  concur- 
rently as  commander,  North-East  Mediterranean  (COME- 
DNOREAST),  under  NAVSOUTH.  The  Turkish  navy  shares  in 
NAVSOUTH's  mission  of  protecting  a  line  of  communications 
through  the  Mediterranean  and  the  Black  Sea  and  conducting 
antisubmarine  operations  in  the  event  of  a  general  war. 

Turkish  strategists  feel  that  the  creation  of  new  countries  in 
the  Black  Sea  area,  following  the  end  of  the  Cold  War,  has 
imposed  new  missions  on  the  navy.  They  point  out  that, 
whereas  there  were  previously  four  littoral  states  on  the  Black 
Sea,  since  the  breakup  of  the  Soviet  Union  there  are  seven — 
Bulgaria,  Georgia,  Moldova,  Romania,  Russia,  Turkey,  and 
Ukraine.  Russia  retains  the  major  share  of  the  former  Soviet 
Black  Sea  fleet,  but  Ukraine  claims  a  number  of  vessels  and 


341 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

base  facilities.  Because  Turkey  considers  the  Central  Asian 
republics  likely  to  make  heavy  use  of  the  Black  Sea  for  foreign 
trade,  the  maintenance  of  open  sea-lanes  is  expected  to 
become  more  important.  Turkey  foresees  a  greater  flow  of  oil 
from  the  Caucasus,  Central  Asia,  and  Russia  via  pipelines  to  ter- 
minals at  Iskenderun  in  the  eastern  Mediterranean,  imposing 
additional  requirements  on  the  navy  to  ensure  the  safety  of 
ports  and  sea-lanes  in  an  increasingly  strategic  area. 

The  navy  has  three  operational  commands:  the  Northern 
Sea  Area  Command,  based  at  Istanbul;  the  Fleet  Command  at 
Golciik;  and  the  Southern  Sea  Area  Command  at  Izmir.  The 
Fleet  Command,  the  largest  of  the  naval  components,  consists 
of  specialized  elements:  the  war  fleet,  the  submarine  fleet,  the 
mine  fleet,  and  the  landing  units.  The  zonal  commands  are  the 
Black  Sea  (headquartered  at  Eregli),  the  Aegean  (headquar- 
tered at  Izmir),  two  straits  commands  (headquartered  at  Istan- 
bul and  Qanakkale),  and  the  Mediterranean  (headquartered  at 
Mersin).  The  commander  in  chief  of  the  Turkish  navy  in  early 
1995  was  Admiral  Vural  Bayazit. 

The  Naval  Training  Command  is  based  at  Karamursel  on 
the  southern  coast  of  the  Sea  of  Marmara.  The  naval  academy 
near  Istanbul  is  colocated  with  the  Naval  Lyceum,  a  four-year 
secondary  school.  Graduates  of  the  lyceum  and  other  high 
schools  who  are  accepted  as  midshipmen  at  the  naval  academy 
are  promoted  to  subensign  after  the  four-year  program,  and 
then  are  assigned  to  sea  duty  for  two  probationary  years  before 
being  commissioned  in  the  regular  navy.  Entrance  to  the 
lyceum  is  highly  competitive;  only  a  small  percentage  of  appli- 
cants pass  the  qualifying  examinations. 

The  Petty  Officers  School  at  Istanbul  receives  applicants  at 
age  twelve  for  four  years  of  secondary  and  naval  preparatory 
instruction.  Graduates  are  then  admitted  as  petty  officer  candi- 
dates and,  after  four  years  of  specialist  training,  are  designated 
career  petty  officers  at  the  entry  grade.  Conscripts  assigned  to 
the  navy  receive  about  four  months  of  basic  training  and  are 
then  assigned  to  sea  or  shore  duties  for  the  balance  of  their 
required  service. 

The  navy's  inventory  of  ships  is  well  maintained,  and  its 
officers  and  crews  are  considered  to  possess  high  levels  of  pro- 
fessionalism and  readiness.  Turkey  participates  in  NATO  exer- 
cises in  its  region  and  frequently  takes  part  in  national 
exercises  of  other  NATO  members.  Its  relations  with  other 
Black  Sea  naval  powers  are  good.  Mutual  high-level  naval  visits 


342 


F-16  aircraft  used  by  Turkish  Air  Force 
Turkish  naval  vessel  on  patrol 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Turkey,  Washington 

have  been  exchanged  with  Russia,  and  negotiations  have  been 
opened  on  agreements  to  prevent  incidents  on  and  over  the 
high  seas  with  both  Russia  and  Ukraine.  Turkey  conducted 
joint  mine  and  search-and-rescue  exercises  with  Bulgaria  in 
1993. 

The  main  categories  of  Turkish  fighting  ships  are  destroy- 
ers, frigates,  submarines,  and  fast-attack  craft  (see  table  15, 
Appendix  A).  Most  of  the  older  ships  are  of  United  States  ori- 
gin. More  modern  units  have  been  supplied  by  Germany  or 
constructed  in  Turkish  shipyards  with  German  technical  assis- 
tance and  components.  The  largest  vessels  are  United  States 
destroyers,  most  of  them  launched  at  the  close  of  World  War  II. 
They  are  considered  obsolete  and  incapable  of  operating  with 


343 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

other  NATO  ships  in  battle-group  formations.  One  of  the 
destroyers,  the  Muavenet,  was  hit  by  two  Sea  Sparrow  surface-to- 
surface  missiles  (SSMs)  launched  accidentally  by  a  United 
States  warship  during  exercises  in  1992.  The  Turkish  captain 
and  four  other  personnel  were  killed  and  a  number  injured. 
The  destroyer  subsequently  was  scrapped.  In  1993  and  1994, 
eight  newer  Knox-class  frigates  were  transferred  to  Turkey  by 
the  United  States. 

In  1994  four  MEKO-200  class  frigates  of  German  design 
were  in  the  inventory,  and  an  additional  four  modernized 
MEKO-200  frigates  are  to  be  delivered  between  1995  and 
1998.  Construction  is  split,  with  the  first  four  frigates  having 
been  built  in  Germany  and  four  being  built  at  the  naval  ship- 
yard at  Golcuk,  with  German  equipment  packages.  The  vessels 
are  armed  with  five-inch  guns,  Harpoon  SSMs,  and  Sea  Spar- 
row SAMs. 

The  submarine  force  consisted  originally  of  United  States 
World  War  II-era  diesel-powered  attack  vessels  of  the  Guppy 
class.  Seven  of  these  were  still  listed  in  1994,  but  their  utility  was 
doubtful.  Since  1975  Turkey  has  been  acquiring  German  20- 
class  (type-1200)  submarines,  quiet-running  craft  smaller  than 
the  Guppies  but  suitable  for  defending  the  approaches  to  the 
straits  as  well  as  Turkey's  coastal  waters.  The  first  three  of  the 
six  vessels  were  built  in  Germany  and  the  next  three  were  built 
at  Golcuk.  Four  additional  209-class  submarines  of  the  more 
advanced  type-1400,  armed  with  sub-Harpoon  SSMs,  are  to  be 
added  between  1994  and  1998. 

The  sixteen  missile-armed  fast-attack  craft  in  the  Turkish 
fleet  in  1994  were  a  mixture  of  older  and  newer  technologies. 
The  most  up-to-date  units  were  eight  Dogan-class  vessels 
equipped  with  Harpoon  SSMs.  They  were  built  in  Turkey  along 
the  lines  of  the  German  Lurssen  57.  Two  more  fast-attack  craft 
of  the  Yildiz  class  are  to  be  delivered  in  1995.  These  high-speed 
vessels  would  be  especially  effective  against  ships  attempting  to 
transit  the  confined  waters  in  and  around  the  Turkish  straits. 

The  amphibious  force  of  sixty-six  vessels  in  the  inventory  at 
the  end  of  1994  would  be  sufficient  to  land  Turkish  infantry 
and  tanks  in  individual  operations  or  in  conjunction  with  other 
NATO  assault  forces.  The  inventory  of  twenty-nine  minelayers 
and  minesweepers  would  have  the  task  of  implementing  a 
NATO  decision  to  seal  off  the  Black  Sea.  Turkish  officers  are 
considered  to  be  highly  qualified  in  such  operations,  but  in  the 


344 


National  Security 


mid-1990s  minesweepers  and  minelayers  were  due  for  modern- 
ization. 

In  1994  the  naval  air  arm  included  fourteen  Italian-built 
Agusta-Bell  AB-204  and  AB-212  antisubmarine  helicopters, 
which  could  be  flown  off  frigate  flight  decks.  United  States- 
manufactured  Grumman  S-2E  Tracker  aircraft,  flown  by  air 
force  personnel  and  used  for  land-based  antisubmarine  and 
marine  reconnaissance,  were  due  to  be  replaced.  The  marine 
contingent  of  some  3,000  officers  and  troops  was  organized  as 
a  brigade  of  three  infantry  battalions  and  one  artillery  battal- 
ion, plus  support  units. 

Uniforms,  Ranks,  and  Insignia 

Uniforms  worn  in  Turkey's  three  military  services  are  simi- 
lar in  design  to  those  worn  by  United  States  military  personnel 
and  by  troops  of  other  NATO  countries.  The  army  winter  ser- 
vice dress  uniform  is  a  shade  of  olive  drab;  a  khaki  shirt  and 
trousers  are  worn  in  summer.  Troops  wear  a  field-gray  shirt  and 
trousers  for  winter  field  duty,  and  a  camouflaged  battle-fatigue 
uniform  during  the  summer.  The  navy  wears  a  black  uniform 
in  winter  and  a  white  one  in  summer.  The  air  force  uniforms 
are  the  same  shade  of  blue  worn  by  the  United  States  and  Brit- 
ish air  forces. 

Army  and  air  force  officers  wear  their  rank  insignia  on 
shoulder  straps.  Generals  are  identified  by  a  red  lapel  patch; 
their  rank  is  denoted  by  a  shoulder  device  combining  a  wreath 
with  star  and  crescent  and  superimposed  crossed  sabers,  plus 
one  to  four  gold  stars.  Field-grade  officers  have  one  to  three 
gold  stars  with  a  wreath  and  star  and  crescent.  Company-grade 
officers  wear  one  to  three  gold  stars  on  plain  shoulder  straps 
(see  fig.  16). 

A  red  backing  to  an  army  officer's  wreath  indicates  general's 
rank.  Among  officers  at  lower  grades,  the  backing's  color  indi- 
cates service  corps;  for  example,  green  for  infantry,  dark  blue 
for  artillery,  black  for  armor,  and  light  blue  for  signals.  The 
same  wreath  device  forms  part  of  the  badge  on  the  peaked  cap. 
Variations  in  the  cap's  peak  and  chin  strap  decorations  provide 
further  indications  of  rank.  The  air  force's  method  of  display- 
ing rank  is  virtually  the  same  as  the  army's.  Naval  officers'  ranks 
are  indicated  by  gold  stripes  around  the  lower  sleeves  of  their 
jackets  (the  upper  stripe  looped  as  in  the  British  navy),  on 
shoulder  boards,  and  on  the  chin  straps  of  visored  caps. 


345 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


346 


National  Security 


347 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

NCO  ranks  are  denoted  by  arm  chevrons  (see  fig.  17).  Insig- 
nia of  the  army  and  air  force  are  almost  identical  in  design, 
resembling  those  of  the  United  States  Air  Force,  with  a  star  and 
crescent  rather  than  a  star  at  the  center.  Enlisted  personnel 
wear  tabs  colored  to  indicate  service  corps  on  their  lapels  and 
service  caps. 

Military  Cooperation  with  the  United  States 

During  the  postwar  era,  Turkey's  foremost  ally  has  been  the 
United  States.  Because  of  Turkey's  strategic  location  in  the 
Middle  East,  its  proximity  to  the  Soviet  Union's  military  instal- 
lations and  test  sites,  and  its  control  of  the  Black  Sea  straits,  mil- 
itary ties  with  the  United  States  were  a  crucial  factor  in  the 
East-West  confrontation.  The  alliance  originated  soon  after  the 
end  of  World  War  II,  when  Soviet  dictator  Josef  V.  Stalin  made 
a  series  of  demands  on  Turkey  that  the  Turkish  government 
and  the  Western  powers  interpreted  as  a  possible  prelude  to 
military  action.  The  begrudging  withdrawal  of  Soviet  occupa- 
tion forces  from  northern  Iran  in  May  1946  and  communist 
guerrilla  warfare  in  Greece  heightened  fears  of  a  Soviet  drive 
into  the  Middle  East.  The  United  States  responded  with  procla- 
mation of  the  Truman  Doctrine  in  March  1947.  Both  Greece 
and  Turkey  were  provided  with  aid  to  resist  the  Soviet  threat. 

Because  of  concerns  over  extending  a  United  States  military 
commitment  to  the  Middle  East,  the  United  States  initially  was 
not  convinced  that  Turkey's  admission  to  NATO  should  be 
approved.  Turkish  troops'  noteworthy  participation  in  the 
Korean  War  changed  this  view;  Turkey  entered  NATO  in  1952. 

In  accordance  with  bilateral  defense  arrangements  under 
NATO  auspices,  the  United  States  has  developed  and  main- 
tained several  major  military  installations  on  Turkish  bases.  Of 
particular  significance  are  several  electronic  intelligence  posts 
considered  vital  for  monitoring  Russian  weapons  and  Moscow's 
compliance  with  strategic  arms  limitation  agreements.  A  long- 
range  radar  system  has  been  established  at  Pirinclik,  near 
Diyarbakir,  to  monitor  Russian  missile  testing.  At  Belbasi,  near 
Ankara,  nuclear  testing  can  be  monitored  by  means  of  seismic 
data  collection. 

No  United  States  combat  forces  are  based  in  Turkey,  but  ele- 
ments of  two  United  States  Air  Force  fighter  squadrons  based 
in  Italy  are  rotated  periodically  to  Incirlik — the  West's  farthest 
forward-based  tactical  combat  aircraft  in  the  eastern  Mediterra- 
nean. £igli,  a  Turkish  air  base  north  of  Izmir,  is  used  by  United 


348 


National  Security 


States  Air  Force  units  in  connection  with  NATO  exercises. 
Three  bases  in  eastern  Turkey — at  Erzurum,  Batman,  and 
Mus — were  upgraded  following  a  1982  agreement  to  make 
them  available  for  forward  deployment  of  United  States  tactical 
aircraft  under  conditions  of  a  NATO  alert.  Aircraft  operating 
from  them  could  cover  the  entire  Turkish-Iranian-Transcauca- 
sian  border  region  without  aerial  refueling. 

A  Defense  Cooperation  Agreement  (DCA),  first  negotiated 
in  1969  and  renewed  numerous  times,  consolidated  various 
bilateral  accords  governing  the  United  States  military  presence 
in  Turkey.  As  a  result  of  its  1988  renegotiation,  the  agreement 
is  now  known  as  the  Defense  and  Economic  Cooperation 
Agreement  (DECA) .  Under  the  DECA,  the  number  of  United 
States  personnel,  including  dependents,  in  Turkey — which  had 
reached  a  peak  of  25,000  in  1968 — was  reduced  to  16,000  in 
1970  and  9,000  by  1980.  In  1991  the  total  was  slightly  above 
10,000.  Since  that  year,  nearly  all  of  the  communications  and 
naval  facilities  have  been  closed.  In  late  1994,  United  States 
personnel  remained  only  at  the  air  stations  at  Incirlik,  Ankara, 
and  Qigli,  the  intelligence  posts  at  Pirinclik  and  Belbasi,  and  a 
communications  station  at  Karatas,  near  Incirlik.  The  number 
of  United  States  personnel  had  been  reduced  to  about  4,000. 

It  is  common  practice  to  refer  to  installations  staffed  by 
United  States  personnel — even  those  solely  connected  with  the 
NATO  mission — as  'American."  Turkey  has  never  waived  its 
sovereignty  over  them;  they  have  Turkish  commanders  and  are 
officially  regarded  as  joint-use  facilities.  Even  so,  Turkish  sensi- 
tivity about  their  control  and  the  conspicuous  United  States 
presence  have  at  times  provoked  incidents  and  disputes. 
Extremist  political  factions  tend  to  exploit  these  issues  for  their 
own  purposes. 

Turkey  regarded  the  arms  embargo  imposed  by  the  United 
States  Congress  after  the  Cyprus  invasion  of  1974  as  a  serious 
affront.  Put  into  effect  in  1975,  the  embargo  was  opposed  by 
the  executive  branch  of  the  United  States  government,  which 
considered  it  an  obstruction  in  the  quest  for  an  equitable  set- 
tlement of  the  Cyprus  situation.  Turkey  retaliated  by  abrogat- 
ing the  1969  DCA  and  suspending  operations  of  United  States- 
used  installations  not  clearly  linked  to  the  NATO  mission.  The 
intelligence  collection  sites  were  closed  down,  and  the  United 
States  Navy  was  denied  use  of  its  loran  (long-range)  navigation 
station  in  Turkey.  The  embargo  ended  in  1978  when  Congress 
repealed  its  earlier  restrictions,  although  the  president  of  the 


349 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

United  States  was  required  to  make  periodic  certifications  that 
Turkey  was  contributing  to  efforts  to  settle  the  Cyprus  issue. 

Turkish  public  opinion  has  been  sensitive  to  suggestions 
that  United  States  rapid  deployment  forces  or  other  units 
might  make  use  of  facilities  on  Turkish  territory  for  non-NATO 
purposes.  The  only  Muslim  country  in  NATO,  Turkey  is  deter- 
mined to  avoid  giving  open  support  to  controversial  or  unpop- 
ular actions  by  the  United  States  in  the  Middle  East.  The 
Turkish  government  did  not  permit  use  of  the  bases  for  United 
States  operations  during  the  Arab-Israeli  wars  of  1967  and  1973 
and  allowed  only  nonmilitary  supplies  to  be  shipped  via  Turkey 
to  the  United  States-led  multinational  contingent  in  Lebanon 
in  1983. 

Repeated  attempts  by  members  of  Congress  to  pass  resolu- 
tions commemorating  the  Ottoman  government's  massacre  of 
Armenians  during  World  War  I  have  prompted  strong  reac- 
tions by  the  Turkish  government.  For  instance,  in  1989,  after 
such  a  resolution  was  approved  in  the  Senate  Judiciary  Com- 
mittee, Turkey  prohibited  some  United  States  training  flights, 
reduced  port  calls,  and  halted  military  construction. 

Military  assistance  has  been  an  intrinsic  feature  of  the 
defense  relationship  between  Turkey  and  the  United  States. 
Turkey's  limited  economic  resources,  juxtaposed  against  its 
heavy  NATO  obligation  to  contain  Soviet  power  in  the  eastern 
Mediterranean,  made  such  support  indispensable  until  the 
Soviet  threat  receded  in  the  late  1980s.  Between  1950  and 
1991,  the  United  States  provided  military  assistance  valued  at 
US$9.4  billion,  of  which  about  US$6.1  billion  was  in  grant  form 
and  US$3.3  billion  was  on  a  concessional  loan  basis. 

At  the  insistence  of  Congress,  the  appropriation  of  military 
funds  for  Greece  and  Turkey  has  for  many  years  been  on  a 
seven-to-ten  ratio.  The  Turkish  government  regards  the  aid  for- 
mula as  inequitable  given  that  Turkey  has  a  population  about 
six  times  that  of  Greece,  has  correspondingly  heavier  NATO 
commitments,  and  is  host  to  many  NATO  and  United  States 
military  facilities.  In  1994  the  United  States  Congress  held  back 
10  percent  of  the  funds  appropriated  for  Turkey  until  the 
Department  of  State  could  verify  improvement  of  Turkey's 
human  rights  record  and  progress  on  confidence-building 
measures  in  Cyprus.  Turkey  considered  this  interference  in  its 
internal  affairs  and  made  no  effort  to  have  the  funds  restored. 

Turkey  nevertheless  has  been  the  third  largest  recipient  of 
United  States  military  aid,  after  Israel  and  Egypt.  Despite  the 


350 


National  Security 


end  of  the  Soviet  threat,  Turkey's  military  needs  during  the 
Persian  Gulf  crisis  resulted  in  a  rise  in  the  level  of  grant  aid  to 
US$500  million  in  fiscal  year  (FY— see  Glossary)  1991. 
Although  the  administrations  of  presidents  George  H.W.  Bush 
and  William  J.  Clinton  sought  to  maintain  a  similar  level  in  sub- 
sequent years,  citing  heavy  United  States  reliance  on  Turkish 
air  bases  for  support  of  the  Iraqi  Kurds  in  Provide  Comfort  II. 
Congress  approved  only  US$450  million  in  FY  1993  and  shifted 
the  financing  from  grants  to  loans.  In  FY  1994,  a  move  in  Con- 
gress to  charge  interest  at  market  rather  than  concessional 
rates  was  barely  deflected.  Such  a  change  would  have  been  a 
blow  to  Turkey,  which  was  already  saddled  with  heavy  foreign 
debts.  Ultimately,  US$405  millon  in  low-interest  loans  was 
approved.  The  Department  of  Defense  also  provides  training 
to  about  160  Turkish  officers  each  year.  These  include  students 
at  the  United  States  Army  Command  and  General  Staff  Col- 
lege, as  well  as  individuals  assigned  to  technical  schools  and 
those  receiving  specialized  training  in  management,  language 
instruction,  medical  logistics,  and  air-traffic  control. 

Domestic  Arms  Industry 

Since  the  mid-1980s,  Turkey  has  been  engaged  in  a  wide- 
ranging  program  to  develop  a  modern  defense  industry  based 
on  cooperation  with  firms  in  other  countries.  Previously,  Tur- 
key's economic  and  industrial  capacity  was  insufficient  to  pro- 
duce weapons  as  sophisticated  as  those  of  Western  Europe.  In 
the  early  years  of  the  republic,  the  government  sponsored  a 
number  of  arms  factories  intended  primarily  to  supply  basic 
infantry  weapons  and  ammunition.  After  World  War  II,  Tur- 
key's efforts  to  bring  its  military  establishment  up  to  modern 
standards  depended  almost  totally  on  military  assistance  and 
credits  from  its  NATO  partners.  After  the  imposition  of  the  lim- 
ited embargo  by  the  United  States  in  1975,  Turkey  launched  a 
series  of  projects  to  reduce  its  dependence  on  imports  of  major 
military  items.  Initial  results  took  the  form  of  a  broader  range 
of  domestically  produced  light  weapons  and  artillery  and  the 
development  of  an  electronics  industry  oriented  toward  battle- 
field communications  and  the  requirements  of  military  air- 
craft. 

In  1985  new  legislation  centralized  efforts  to  launch  an  up- 
to-date  arms  industry  under  a  new  agency — the  Defense  Indus- 
try Development  and  Support  Administration  (later  the  Minis- 
try of  National  Defense  Undersecretariat  for  Defense  Indus- 


351 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

tries,  known  as  SSM)  with  its  own  source  of  capital,  the  Defense 
Industry  Support  Fund.  The  fund  does  not  depend  on  national 
defense  budget  appropriations  but  receives  earmarked  reve- 
nues directly — 10  percent  of  taxes  on  fuel,  5  percent  of  individ- 
ual and  corporate  income  taxes,  and  taxes  on  alcohol  and 
tobacco.  Most  of  the  major  projects  encouraged  by  SSM  have 
been  international  joint  ventures  and  coproduction  enter- 
prises. In  most  cases,  the  foreign  partner  must  agree  to  an  off- 
set provision,  that  is,  a  commitment  to  purchase  some  part  of 
the  resulting  production,  or  components  or  other  goods  manu- 
factured in  Turkey. 

The  Turkish  defense  industry  employs  about  50,000  individ- 
uals at  110  firms,  many  of  them  state  owned.  About  1,000  addi- 
tional firms  participate  in  defense  business  as  subcontractors. 
The  largest  producer  of  weaponry  in  Turkey,  with  about  12,000 
employees,  is  Makina  ve  Kimya  Endiistrisi  Kurumu  (MKEK), 
controlled  by  the  Ministry  of  Industry  and  Trade.  MKEK  meets 
the  requirements  of  the  Turkish  armed  forces  for  light  arms 
(including  the  M-3  and  MG-3  rifles  and  a  machine  gun  of  Ger- 
man design),  ammunition,  and  explosives.  It  also  produces 
antiaircraft  and  antitank  guns. 

In  1988  rocket  and  missile  production  was  shifted  from 
MKEK  to  a  new  company,  Roket  Sanayii  (ROKETSAN). 
ROKETSAN  has  the  largest  share  in  the  production  of  the  pro- 
pulsion system  and  rocket  assembly  for  the  four-country  Euro- 
pean consortium  manufacturing  the  Stinger  SAM.  The 
company  also  plans  to  produce  multi-launch  rocket  systems 
(MLRS)  in  partnership  with  a  United  States  firm,  the  LTV  Cor- 
poration. A  consortium  formed  by  a  United  States  firm,  FMC 
Corporation,  and  a  Turkish  firm,  Nurol,  is  projected  to  pro- 
duce 1,700  APCs  and  armored  fighting  vehicles  by  1997. 

Turkish  arms  manufacturers'  most  ambitious  undertaking 
has  been  a  consortium  with  United  States  firms  to  produce  F- 
16  fighter  aircraft.  Under  this  arrangement,  airframes  for  the 
F-16s  are  produced  in  a  factory  at  Miirted  Air  Base  near 
Ankara  by  TUSAS  (Turk  Ucak  Sanayi  Sirketi)  Aerospace  Indus- 
tries, with  51  percent  ownership  by  Turkish  interests,  42  per- 
cent by  General  Dynamics,  and  7  percent  by  General  Electric. 
The  engine  plant  near  Eskisehir  is  a  joint  venture  with  General 
Electric. 

The  project,  whose  total  cost  is  projected  at  US$4.2  billion, 
is  expected  to  result  in  the  delivery  of  240  F-16C/Ds  to  the 
Turkish  air  force  between  the  late  1980s  and  the  late  1990s. 


352 


National  Security 


Additional  funds  were  pledged  to  the  Turkish  Defense  Fund 
(TDF)  after  the  Persian  Gulf  War  by  the  United  States,  Saudi 
Arabia,  Kuwait,  and  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  to  be  paid  over 
a  five-year  period.  Under  an  October  1994  agreement,  Turkey 
requested  that  the  TDF,  which  thus  far  amounted  to  some 
US$1.8  billion,  be  transferred  to  Turkey.  Most  of  the  TDF 
funds  are  to  be  used  to  cover  the  cost  of  eighty  F-16  aircraft,  of 
which  forty  were  agreed  upon  in  March  1992  and  forty  more  in 
February  1994.  Through  offset  arrangements,  F-16  compo- 
nents and  engines  produced  in  Turkey  are  exported  to  the 
United  States.  Egypt  ordered  forty-six  F-16s  to  be  delivered 
between  1993  and  1995. 

Communications  equipment  and  electronic  warfare  systems 
for  the  Turkish  military  are  produced  by  ASELSAN  Military 
Electronics  Industries,  a  state-owned  company  whose  dominant 
shareholder  is  OYAK.  ASELSAN  manufactures  under  license  a 
United  States-designed  family  of  manpack  and  vehicular  battle- 
field radios  and  voice  scramblers.  It  supplies  the  inertial  naviga- 
tion systems  and  fire  control  for  the  TUSAS  F-16  project  and 
produces  components  for  the  Stinger  missile  program. 

In  addition  to  its  coproduction  role  in  the  F-16  project, 
TUSAS  has  contracted  with  Agusta,  the  Italian  aircraft  manu- 
facturer, to  produce  forty  SF-260  trainers  at  the  Miirted  plant. 
A  contract  with  Construcciones  Aeronauticas,  S.A.  (CASA)  of 
Spain  calls  for  joint  production  of  fifty-two  CN-235  light  trans- 
port aircraft.  A  US$1.1  billion  agreement  was  concluded  in 
1992  with  Sikorsky  covering  direct  procurement  of  forty-five 
Black  Hawk  helicopters,  with  an  additional  fifty  helicopters  to 
be  coproduced  in  Turkey  by  1999. 

Much  of  Turkey's  indigenous  naval  construction  has  been 
carried  out  with  cooperation  from  German  shipbuilders.  Four 
frigates  of  the  MEKO-200  class  were  being  built  in  1995  at  the 
main  naval  shipyard  at  Golcuk  where  three  submarines  of  the 
209-class  (type-1200)  had  been  built;  four  type-1400  subma- 
rines are  scheduled  to  be  commissioned  between  1994  and 
1998.  Dogan-class  fast-attack  boats  armed  with  Harpoon  mis- 
siles have  been  produced  in  Turkish  yards,  as  well  as  destroyer 
escorts,  patrol  boats,  landing  craft,  and  auxiliary  craft.  In  1993 
private  shipyards  were  invited  to  bid  on  construction  of  mine- 
sweepers and  patrol  boats. 

The  effort  to  create  a  modern  defense  industry  on  a  narrow 
technological  base  was  risky  for  Turkish  defense  planners. 
However,  it  appears  to  have  been  successful  in  enabling  Turkey 


353 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

to  rely  on  domestic  sources  to  meet  an  increasing  portion  of  its 
advanced  equipment  needs.  The  results  have  included  reduc- 
tions in  costs  and  in  the  demand  for  foreign  exchange,  as  well 
as  the  opening  of  foreign  markets,  mainly  through  offset  provi- 
sions. As  of  the  mid-1990s,  the  anticipated  development  of  a 
Middle  Eastern  market  for  finished  products  did  not  appear  to 
have  occurred,  based  on  available  arms  export  data.  A  broader 
goal  was  to  set  new  standards  for  quality  and  productivity  in 
Turkish  industry  generally  and  thus  increase  the  country's 
competitiveness  through  the  lead  established  by  the  defense 
industry. 

Internal  Security  Concerns 

Since  the  late  1960s,  Turkey  has  been  plagued  by  recurrent 
political  violence.  Radical  groups  responsible  for  terrorism 
have  included  movements  of  both  leftist  and  rightist  orienta- 
tion, as  well  as  ethnic  and  religious  extremists.  By  far  the  most 
serious  source  of  violence  since  the  mid-1980s  has  been  the 
Kurdish  separatist  insurgency,  which  by  the  mid-1990s  had 
nearly  assumed  the  character  of  a  civil  war  in  the  southeastern 
area  of  the  country  bordering  Syria  and  Iraq. 

During  the  1970s,  various  political  groups — particularly 
ones  on  the  left — used  violence  in  the  hope  that  civil  disorder 
and  the  consequent  suppression  by  the  state  might  lead  to  rev- 
olution. In  the  months  preceding  the  assumption  of  power  by 
Turkey's  generals  in  September  1980,  the  toll  of  political  kill- 
ings rose  to  more  than  twenty  a  day.  The  government's  repres- 
sion of  political  activism  and  the  detention  of  an  estimated 
30,000  persons  suspected  of  terrorism  were  accompanied  by 
arrests  of  union  members,  university  students,  and  journalists. 
The  stern  measures  of  the  military  commanders  were  vehe- 
mently criticized  by  Turkish  intellectuals  and  foreign  observ- 
ers; however,  the  measures  did  reduce  the  violence. 

Even  after  civilian  rule  was  restored  in  1983,  the  continua- 
tion of  martial  law  in  certain  areas,  the  expansion  of  police 
powers,  and  legal  constraints  on  political  movements  damp- 
ened politically  inspired  violence.  Terrorist  incidents  contin- 
ued to  occur  in  urban  areas,  but  these  were  for  the  most  part 
individually  targeted  bombings  and  assassinations,  including 
attacks  on  United  States  installations  and  personnel.  The  num- 
ber of  such  incidents  peaked  at  seventy-five  in  1991,  most  of 
them  attributed  to  leftist  protests  against  Turkey's  strategic  role 
in  the  international  coalition  against  Iraq.  Nevertheless,  the 


354 


National  Security 


preoccupying  security  issue  for  the  Turkish  government  con- 
tinued to  be  the  mounting  separatist  insurgency  of  the  Kurdis- 
tan Workers'  Party  (Partiya  Karkere  Kurdistan — PKK).  The 
uprising  of  Kurds  in  northern  Iraq  after  the  Persian  Gulf  War 
focused  attention  on  the  condition  of  Kurds  in  general;  the 
PKK  used  the  occasion  to  intensify  its  military  operations  in  the 
Kurdish  region  of  southeastern  Turkey. 

Kurdish  Separatists 

The  Kurdish  national  movement  dates  back  at  least  to  1925, 
when  Atatiirk  ruthlessly  suppressed  a  revolt  against  the  new 
Turkish  republic  motivated  by  the  regime's  renunciation  of 
Muslim  religious  practices.  Uprisings  in  the  1930s  and  1940s 
prompted  by  opposition  to  the  modernizing  and  centralizing 
reforms  of  the  Turkish  government  in  Ankara  also  were  put 
down  by  the  Turkish  army.  Kurdish  opposition  to  the  govern- 
ment's emphasis  on  linguistic  homogeneity  was  spurred  in  the 
1960s  and  1970s  by  agitation  in  neighboring  Iran  and  Iraq  on 
behalf  of  an  autonomous  Kurdistan,  to  include  Kurds  from 
Turkey,  Iran,  Iraq,  and  Syria.  The  majority  of  Kurds,  however, 
continued  to  participate  in  Turkish  political  parties  and  to 
assimilate  into  Turkish  society. 

The  best  known  and  most  radical  of  the  Kurdish  move- 
ments, the  PKK,  which  does  not  represent  the  majority  of 
Kurds,  seeks  to  establish  an  independent  Marxist  state  in  south- 
eastern Turkey  where  the  Kurdish  population  predominates. 
Beginning  in  1984,  a  resurgence  of  Kurdish  attacks  attributed 
to  the  PKK  necessitated  the  deployment  of  Turkish  army  units 
and  elite  police  forces.  Fighting  in  the  mountain  terrain 
favored  the  insurgents,  who  could  intimidate  local  Kurdish 
families  and  ambush  regular  troops.  The  violence  has  mounted 
since  1991,  with  PKK  guerrillas  from  camps  in  Syria,  Iran,  and 
Iraq,  as  well  as  from  inside  Turkey  itself,  attacking  Turkish  mili- 
tary and  police  outposts  and  targeting  civilian  community  lead- 
ers and  teachers.  In  1993  PKK  gunmen  sought  military  targets 
outside  the  southeastern  region;  they  also  conducted  coordi- 
nated attacks  in  many  West  European  cities,  particularly  in  Ger- 
many where  more  than  1  million  Kurds  live,  against  Turkish 
diplomatic  installations  and  Turkish  businesses,  often  operated 
by  Kurds.  Such  attacks  on  commercial  firms  can  be  seen  as 
efforts  at  intimidation  to  gain  contributions  to  PKK  fundrais- 
ing. 


355 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Increased  numbers  of  security  forces  were  mobilized  in 
1994  against  the  Kurds  in  a  government  campaign  of  mounting 
intensity.  One  government  strategy  has  been  the  forced  evacua- 
tion and  in  a  number  of  instances  burning  some  850  Kurdish 
villages  to  prevent  them  from  harboring  PKK  insurgents. 
Although  militarily  successful,  the  evacuations  have  caused 
great  hardship  to  the  villagers. 

The  government  has  been  accused  of  harassment,  destruc- 
tion of  villages,  and  the  slaying  of  Kurds  believed  to  be  sympa- 
thetic to  the  PKK.  Its  tactics  have  resulted  in  hundreds  of 
civilian  casualties  and  turned  thousands  into  refugees,  who 
have  crowded  into  major  Turkish  cities.  The  insurgents,  in 
turn,  have  targeted  villages  known  to  be  sympathetic  to  the  gov- 
ernment, murdering  state  officials,  teachers,  government  col- 
laborators, and  paramilitary  village  guards.  In  an  especially 
cruel  incident  in  May  1993  that  ended  a  two-month  cease-fire 
announced  by  the  PKK,  a  PKK  unit  executed  thirty  unarmed 
military  recruits  after  ambushing  several  buses. 

As  of  early  1994,  about  160,000  Turkish  troops  and  gen- 
darmerie had  been  mobilized  for  operations  against  the  PKK. 
Some  40,000  civilians  formed  a  village  guard  of  progovern- 
ment  Kurds.  A  new  mobile  security  force  of  about  10,000 
troops  was  undergoing  special  training  in  antiguerrilla  opera- 
tions. The  United  States  Department  of  State  estimated  that 
there  were  10,000  to  15,000  full-time  PKK  guerrillas,  5,000  to 
6,000  of  whom  were  in  Turkey  and  the  others  in  Iran,  Iraq,  and 
Syria.  There  were  thought  to  be  an  additional  60,000  to  75,000 
part-time  guerrillas. 

The  number  of  deaths  since  the  war's  outbreak  in  1984  had 
risen  beyond  12,000  by  1994.  According  to  official  figures, 
more  than  1,500  PKK  guerrillas  were  killed  and  7,600  captured 
during  the  first  eleven  months  of  1993.  During  the  same 
period,  the  number  of  government  security  personnel  killed 
came  to  676.  Civilian  deaths  totaled  1,249,  more  than  double 
the  1992  total. 

The  PKK  cause  was  not  helped  by  the  Kurds  of  Iraq,  who 
depended  on  Turkey  to  keep  their  enclave  protected  from  the 
forces  of  Iraqi  president  Saddam  Husayn.  In  October  1992, 
Iraqi  Kurds  and  the  Turkish  army  carried  out  a  joint  offensive 
against  PKK  bases  in  Iraqi  Kurdistan,  forcing  the  surrender  of 
more  than  1,000  PKK  fighters.  Turkey  also  enlisted  Syria's 
cooperation  in  closing  the  PKK  base  in  the  Bekaa  Valley  of  Leb- 
anon. The  government's  flexibility  in  seeking  a  negotiated 


356 


National  Security 


solution  to  the  conflict  was  limited  by  the  growing  anger  of  the 
Turkish  public  over  PKK  terrorism  and  the  killing  of  troops  in 
the  southeast  and  by  the  military's  uncompromising  anti-Kurd- 
ish stance. 

Terrorism  of  the  Left 

Marxists  and  other  groups  of  the  extreme  left  have  never 
been  more  than  marginal  factors  in  national  politics,  even  dur- 
ing those  periods  when  they  were  permitted  to  function  as 
legal  parties.  Just  before  the  military  crackdown  in  1980,  four 
of  the  seven  Marxist-oriented  parties  legally  recognized  at  the 
time  contested  local  elections  but  were  able  to  gather  a  total  of 
only  1  percent  of  the  national  vote.  During  the  1970s,  the  leftist 
movement  turned  increasingly  to  violence  and  terrorism;  at 
the  same  time,  left-wing  ideologies  became  popular  in  the  uni- 
versities and  among  alienated  and  often  unemployed  urban 
youth. 

In  1987  the  leaders  of  the  banned  Turkish  Workers'  Party 
and  of  the  Turkish  Communist  Party  returned  from  exile  to 
form  a  new  Turkish  United  Communist  Party.  Both  politicians 
were  arrested  and  charged  under  the  provision  of  the  penal 
code  that  specifically  outlawed  communist  organizations  and 
the  dissemination  of  Marxist-Leninist  theories.  After  being 
decriminalized  in  1991,  the  Turkish  United  Communist  Party 
was  again  proscribed  after  the  Constitutional  Court  upheld  a 
ban  on  the  grounds  that  it  had  violated  Article  14  of  the  consti- 
tution, which  prohibits  "establishing  the  hegemony  of  one 
social  class  over  another." 

The  most  active  of  the  left-wing  terrorist  groups  is  the  Revo- 
lutionary Left  Party  (Devrimci  Sol — Dev  Sol).  Virulently  anti- 
American  and  anti-NATO,  Dev  Sol  was  responsible  for  most  of 
the  attacks  against  United  States  targets  and  other  political  vio- 
lence during  the  Persian  Gulf  War.  In  one  incident,  two  United 
States  civilians  working  for  a  United  States  defense  contractor 
were  killed.  The  Turkish  government  reacted  vigorously,  con- 
ducting raids  against  Dev  Sol  safe  houses  and  enacting  new 
antiterrorist  legislation.  Dev  Sol  is  believed  to  have  several  hun- 
dred members,  including  several  dozen  armed  militants. 
Because  of  police  raids  and  internal  factionalism,  attacks  by 
Dev  Sol  have  been  less  numerous  since  1991.  Sympathizers 
among  the  foreign  Turkish  population  in  Western  Europe  have 
helped  fund  the  organization;  training  support  is  believed  to 
come  from  radical  Palestinians  in  Lebanon. 


357 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

The  Turkish  Workers'  and  Peasants'  Liberation  Army  and 
the  Marxist-Leninist  Armed  Propaganda  Unit  committed 
numerous  acts  of  terrorism  in  the  1970s  and  early  1980s, 
including  bank  robberies  and  bombings  of  businesses,  courts, 
and  key  government  offices.  Members  of  the  latter  group  were 
sentenced  in  1984  after  convictions  for  eighty-seven  killings, 
including  the  murders  of  five  United  States  servicemen  in 
1979.  Since  1990,  however,  the  other  extremist  groups  of  the 
left  have  been  overshadowed  by  Dev  Sol. 

Armenian  Terrorism 

The  primary  objective  of  Armenian  terrorists  during  the 
1970s  and  1980s  was  to  inflict  revenge  for  the  massacres  of 
Armenians  during  World  War  I.  Armenians  regard  these  kill- 
ings as  systematic  genocide,  but  Turks  claim  they  were  the 
unfortunate  outgrowth  of  deportations  intended  to  prevent 
Armenians  from  assisting  the  invading  Russian  armies.  Terror- 
ist groups  also  demanded  that  Turkey  admit  its  guilt  for  crimes 
committed  against  Armenians  and  provide  reparations  in  the 
form  of  money  and  territory  for  an  Armenian  homeland. 

Most  of  the  violence  by  Armenian  terrorists  has  been 
inflicted  on  Turkish  agencies  and  representatives  outside  Tur- 
key. The  best  known  of  these  groups,  the  Armenian  Secret 
Army  for  the  Liberation  of  Armenia  (ASALA),  apparently  was 
formed  in  1975  among  leftist  Armenians  living  in  Beirut,  Leba- 
non, with  the  help  of  sympathetic  Palestinians.  In  reaction, 
rightists  from  the  Armenian  community  in  Lebanon  formed 
the  Justice  Commandos  of  the  Armenian  Genocide  (JCAG).  A 
number  of  other  groups  claimed  responsibility  for  terrorist 
acts,  but  ASALA  and  JCAG  were  judged  to  be  the  two  main 
groups.  It  was  not  clear  whether  lawful  Armenian  political 
blocs  in  Lebanon  sponsored  these  terrorist  units,  but  they  did 
not  openly  condone  the  terrorist  acts  of  their  offshoots. 

Among  the  Armenian  diaspora,  numbering  more  than  6 
million  worldwide,  probably  fewer  than  1,000  persons  belong 
to  terrorist  factions.  Members  generally  are  young,  recent 
immigrants  to  their  countries  of  residence,  or  reside  in  places 
such  as  Lebanon  where  political  violence  is  common.  Assassina- 
tion and  bombing  are  the  principal  techniques  used  by  the  two 
main  terrorist  organizations.  However,  JCAG  has  limited  its 
attacks  to  Turkish  embassy  officials  in  the  United  States,  Can- 
ada, and  Western  Europe,  refraining  from  indiscriminate  vio- 
lence to  avoid  alienating  Western  public  opinion.  Since  1983 


358 


National  Security 


responsibility  for  most  of  the  attacks  has  been  claimed  by  a 
group  called  the  Armenian  Revolutionary  Army,  possibly  a 
cover  name  for  JCAG. 

ASALA  has  carried  out  a  number  of  bombings  of  ticket 
offices  and  airport  counters  of  United  States  airlines  in  West- 
ern Europe.  Following  the  bombing  of  a  Turkish  airline 
counter  at  Orly  Airport  in  Paris  in  1983,  which  resulted  in  sev- 
eral deaths  and  injuries,  a  split  developed  within  ASALA  over 
the  rationale  of  indiscriminate  terrorism  in  advancing  the 
Armenian  cause.  An  offshoot,  the  ASALA  Revolutionary  Move- 
ment (ASALA-RM),  regarded  indiscriminate  terrorism  as  coun- 
terproductive, while  ASALA-Militant  (ASALA-M)  continued  to 
favor  unrestricted  violence  against  both  Turkish  and  "imperial- 
ist" targets.  After  the  split,  the  ASALA  membership  appeared  to 
become  preoccupied  with  its  internal  differences  and  has  since 
been  relatively  inactive. 

Islamists 

A  legal,  nonviolent  Islamic  political  movement  exists  in  Tur- 
key. Its  main  locus  is  the  Welfare  Party  (Refah  Partisi — RP;  also 
seen  as  Prosperity  Party),  which  obtained  the  votes  of  16.9  per- 
cent of  the  electorate  in  the  1991  general  elections  and  cap- 
tured 19  percent  in  the  municipal  elections  of  1994.  The 
Welfare  Party  also  won  mayoral  contests  in  Ankara,  Istanbul, 
and  twenty-seven  other  large  cities.  The  party  stresses  eco- 
nomic goals;  to  cast  its  appeal  in  religious  terms  would  bring  it 
into  conflict  with  the  constitutional  ban  on  the  organization  of 
parties  on  the  basis  of  religion,  ethnicity,  or  political  ideas  con- 
sidered authoritarian. 

Turkey's  political  system  is  more  open  than  those  of  most 
Middle  Eastern  states,  and  to  a  large  extent  it  has  been  able  to 
accommodate  Muslim  political  expression  while  marginalizing 
its  radical  elements.  Nevertheless,  radical  Muslim  groups  are 
considered  a  threat  to  the  secular  political  establishment. 
Although  a  link  with  the  Iranian  government  has  not  been 
proven,  Iranian  mullahs  are  believed  to  give  support  and 
encouragement  to  extremist  Muslims. 

Radical  Islamic  activism — sometimes  described  as  funda- 
mentalism— has  been  the  source  of  some  terrorism,  in  particu- 
lar the  murders  of  journalists,  politicians,  and  academics  who 
were  outspoken  defenders  of  Turkish  secularism.  Several 
Islamic  groups  have  claimed  responsibility  for  these  deaths, 
among  them  the  Islamic  Movement  Organization,  about  which 


359 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

little  is  known.  Another  obscure  group,  composed  of  local 
Islamists  linked  to  the  Iranian  government,  has  targeted  exter- 
nal enemies  of  Iran.  One  of  the  worst  incidents  of  religious  vio- 
lence occurred  in  the  city  of  Sivas  in  1993  when  religious 
fanatics  set  fire  to  a  hotel  where  a  well-known  author  and  trans- 
lator of  Salman  Rushdie's  The  Satanic  Verses  was  staying.  The 
author  escaped,  but  thirty-seven  people  perished  and  100  were 
injured.  Anxious  to  avoid  unnecessary  tension  in  relations  with 
Iran,  Turkish  officials  have  avoided  placing  blame  directly  on 
the  Tehran  government  for  sponsoring  terrorist  activity.  Evi- 
dence, however,  has  been  presented  to  Iran  implicating 
extremists  within  the  revolutionary  power  structure,  if  not  the 
Iranian  government  itself. 

Since  1991  a  shadowy  group  known  as  Hizballah-Contra  has 
sprung  up  in  Kurdish  areas,  carrying  out  a  campaign  of  assassi- 
nation and  terrorism  against  the  PKK  and  its  sympathizers.  The 
organization  is  not  connected  to  Hizballah  (Party  of  God,  also 
known  as  Islamic  Jihad),  a  Shia  terrorist  movement  dedicated 
to  establishing  an  Iranian-style  government  in  Lebanon. 
Although  the  Turkish  government  denies  any  link  to  Hizbal- 
lah-Contra, the  group's  hit  squads  are  believed  to  be  tolerated 
by  the  police  and  gendarmerie,  along  with  other  Kurdish 
groups  violently  hostile  to  the  PKK. 

The  leadership  of  Turkey's  armed  forces  is  highly  sensitive 
to  the  possibility  of  soldiers  becoming  exposed  to  extremist 
Islamic  influences.  Orders  issued  in  1991  instructed  troops  to 
avoid  "illegal,  destructive,  separatist  trends,  either  from  the 
right  or  left,  which  threaten  the  military's  discipline."  Com- 
manders were  urged  to  be  especially  careful  with  regard  to  staff 
members  living  outside  military  compounds  in  large  cities 
where  they  could  come  into  contact  with  Islamist  groups.  They 
were  ordered  to  take  stern  measures — in  some  cases,  expul- 
sion— against  officers  and  NCOs  who  adopted  strong  religious 
views,  who  refrained  from  certain  social  activities  on  religious 
grounds,  or  whose  spouses  wore  Islamic  garb. 

Police  System 

The  principal  agencies  devoted  to  internal  security  and  law 
enforcement  are  the  National  Police  and  the  gendarmerie, 
both  headquartered  in  Ankara  and  both  administered  by  the 
Ministry  of  Interior.  Broadly,  the  National  Police  handles 
police  functions  (including  traffic  control)  in  the  cities  and 
towns,  and  the  gendarmerie  serves  principally  as  a  rural  con- 


360 


National  Security 


stabulary.  In  times  of  crisis,  the  prime  minister  can  direct  the 
chief  of  the  General  Staff  to  assist  the  police  and  gendarmerie 
in  maintaining  internal  security.  The  gendarmerie  is  regarded 
as  a  military  security  force;  during  wartime  or  in  areas  placed 
under  martial  law,  it  functions  under  the  army. 

National  Police 

The  territorial  organization  of  the  National  Police  corre- 
sponds roughly  to  Turkey's  administrative  subdivisions  (see 
Provincial  and  Local  Government,  ch.  4).  Below  the  general 
directorate  are  police  directorates  in  all  of  the  country's  sev- 
enty-six provinces  and  police  posts  (district  commands)  in 
most  of  the  administrative  districts.  Despite  their  wide  territo- 
rial distribution,  a  very  large  proportion  of  the  police  are  clus- 
tered in  the  major  cities.  No  reliable  data  are  available  on  the 
size  of  the  police  force,  whose  members  are  believed  to  num- 
ber more  than  50,000.  Regardless  of  its  size,  the  force  does  not 
appear  large  enough  to  keep  up  with  the  need  generated  by 
Turkey's  urban  growth  and  ordinary  crime  and  traffic  prob- 
lems. 

The  laws  establishing  the  organization  of  police  at  the  pro- 
vincial and  local  levels  distinguish  three  categories  of  func- 
tions: administrative,  judicial,  and  political.  In  this  context,  the 
administrative  police  perform  the  usual  functions  relating  to 
the  safety  of  persons  and  property:  enforcement  of  laws  and 
regulations,  prevention  of  smuggling  and  apprehension  of 
smugglers,  quelling  of  public  disorder,  fingerprinting  and  pho- 
tographing, public  licensing,  controlling  traffic  and  inspecting 
motor  vehicles,  apprehending  thieves  and  military  deserters, 
locating  missing  persons,  and  keeping  track  of  foreigners  resid- 
ing or  traveling  in  Turkey.  Film  censorship  is  also  considered 
an  administrative  responsibility.  In  some  cases,  municipalities 
provide  all  or  part  of  the  funding  for  administrative  police 
functions  in  their  localities. 

The  judicial  police  work  closely  with  the  administrators  of 
justice.  Attached  to  the  offices  of  public  prosecutors,  the  judi- 
cial police  assist  in  investigating  crimes,  issue  arrest  warrants, 
and  help  prosecutors  assemble  evidence  for  trials.  The  political 
police  combat  activities  considered  subversive  and  deal  with 
those  groups  whose  actions  or  plans  are  identified  as  contrary 
to  the  security  of  the  republic. 

To  carry  out  the  police's  broad  and  sometimes  overlapping 
functions,  specialized  squads  focusing  on  such  problems  as 


361 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

smuggling  and  the  narcotics  trade  are  located  in  the  larger 
commands.  At  the  other  end  of  the  scale,  the  police  employ 
unskilled  auxiliaries  in  many  towns  and  in  some  neighbor- 
hoods of  larger  communities.  These  are  selected  local  men, 
not  armed,  who  are  engaged  to  prevent  local  theft  and  to  give 
the  alarm  in  case  of  emergency. 

Police  ranks  range  from  constable  through  sergeant,  lieu- 
tenant, captain,  superintendent  second  and  first  class,  and  sev- 
eral grades  of  police  chief.  A  commissioner  of  police 
commands  each  of  the  seventy-six  provincial  directorates  of 
police.  Provincial  directorates  are  divided  into  district  police 
commands  headed  by  superintendents. 

In  earlier  years,  an  entrant  to  the  lowest  police  grade  was 
expected  to  have  completed  junior  high  school.  But  police 
authorities  recognized  that  the  low  education  level  of  the  force 
contributed  to  violations  of  legal  rights  and  mistreatment  of 
prisoners.  Thus,  recent  recruits  have  been  required  to  have 
completed  secondary  school.  Training  consists  of  a  six-month 
basic  course  at  one  of  five  police  schools.  Candidates  for  higher 
rank  are  sent  to  a  police  college  (equivalent  to  a  senior  high 
school  offering  university  preparation)  and  then  to  the  Police 
Institute  at  Ankara,  from  which  students  graduate  as  sergeants 
after  a  three-year  course. 

The  performance  of  the  Turkish  police  has  been  the  subject 
of  persistent  criticism  for  violations  of  fundamental  human 
rights.  These  problems,  which  have  received  growing  interna- 
tional and  domestic  attention,  involve  torture  during  question- 
ing, incommunicado  detention,  politically  motivated 
disappearances,  "mystery  killings,"  and  excessive  use  of  force. 
Successive  governments  have  repeatedly  promised  to  curb 
abuses  by  the  security  forces,  but  little  if  any  improvement  has 
been  recorded  (see  Individual  Rights,  this  ch.). 

Gendarmerie 

Primarily  a  rural  police  force,  the  gendarmerie  maintains 
public  order  outside  the  municipal  boundaries  of  cities  and 
provincial  towns  and  guards  Turkey's  land  borders  against  ille- 
gal entry  and  smuggling.  It  has  jurisdiction  over  90  percent  of 
the  territory  of  Turkey  and  50  percent  of  the  population.  The 
gendarmerie's  recruits  are  supplied  through  the  military  con- 
scription system,  and  its  officers  and  NCOs  are  transferred 
from  the  army.  New  career  junior  officers  are  obtained  by  quo- 
tas from  the  graduating  classes  of  the  Turkish  army  academy. 


362 


Policeman  directing  traffic,  Istanbul 
Courtesy  Hermine  Dreyfus s 


In  late  1994,  the  gendarmerie's  headquarters  in  Ankara  was 
commanded  by  Aydin  liter,  a  four-star  general.  Subordinate  to 
the  commanding  general's  chief  of  staff,  a  two-star  general,  are 
typical  military  staff  sections  for  personnel,  intelligence,  opera- 
tions, and  logistics,  as  well  as  the  headquarters  commandant. 
The  major  operational  category  consists  of  the  internal  security 
units,  divided  into  stationary  forces  and  mobile  infantry  bri- 
gades. These  forces  may  be  supplemented  by  air  units  and  com- 
mando units  equipped  with  Russian  APCs  and  towed  artillery 
weapons.  In  1994  Turkey  announced  the  purchase  of  nineteen 
Russian  helicopters  to  assist  in  operations  against  the  PKK. 
Elite  fighting  formations  that  distinguished  themselves  in 
Cyprus  in  1974,  the  commando  units  execute  many  of  the 
operations  against  the  PKK  in  the  southeast.  The  gendarmerie 
also  includes  headquarters  and  border  forces,  administrative 
control  and  logistical  support  units,  and  training  staff. 

The  total  number  of  gendarmes  was  estimated  at  70,000 
active  members  and  50,000  reserves  in  late  1994.  They  are 
organized  into  thirteen  regional  commands  encompassing  the 
seventy-six  provinces.  In  each  province,  the  principal  gendarm- 
erie commander,  a  colonel  or  lieutenant  colonel,  advises  the 
governor  on  matters  of  security  and  maintains  direct  charge  of 


363 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

the  district  gendarmerie  commands,  usually  headed  by  cap- 
tains. Below  the  district  commanders  are  commanders  of  the 
administrative  subdistricts,  each  of  whom  controls  the  fixed 
posts  in  his  area.  There  are  some  3,600  posts,  exclusive  of  bor- 
der posts,  usually  located  at  intervals  along  the  main  roads  and 
staffed  by  a  sergeant  and  six  or  more  gendarmes.  To  foster 
detachment  from  local  groups  and  their  interests  and  quarrels, 
gendarmes  are  usually  assigned  away  from  their  home  areas. 

The  administrative  functions  of  the  gendarmerie  corre- 
spond roughly  to  those  of  the  National  Police  but  include  such 
distinctive  requirements  as  enforcing  hunting  and  fishing  laws, 
fighting  forest  fires,  and  patrolling  borders.  The  gendarmes' 
judicial  tasks  include  guarding  prisons  and  assisting  in  investi- 
gations and  preparations  for  trial.  They  also  have  military 
duties:  serving  as  adjuncts  to  the  army  in  emergencies,  enforc- 
ing conscription,  apprehending  military  deserters,  and  work- 
ing in  military  courts. 

Gendarmerie  officers  are  chosen  from  cadets  during  the 
second  year  of  training  at  the  military  academy,  an  aptitude  for 
law  being  a  prime  factor  in  the  selection.  After  completing 
their  academy  training,  officers  attend  the  infantry  school  for 
six  months  and  the  commando  school  for  four  months.  Fur- 
ther professional  training  follows  at  the  Gendarmerie  Schools 
Command.  NCOs  are  selected  by  examination  from  army  per- 
sonnel who  have  already  served  at  least  one  year.  They  are  then 
trained  at  the  Gendarmerie  Schools  Command  for  five 
months.  Basic  military  training  is  given  to  conscripts  by  the 
Gendarmerie  Schools  Command,  followed  by  specialized  train- 
ing in  various  areas. 

Writing  in  the  late  1980s,  the  noted  political  journalist  Meh- 
met  Ali  Birand  commented  that  the  gendarmerie  had  had  an 
unfavorable  reputation  since  its  founding  in  1839  and  its  later 
reorganization  on  the  pattern  of  the  French  gendarmerie.  It 
began  as  the  agent  of  brute  force  for  the  government,  putting 
down  civil  conflicts,  pursuing  criminals,  and  collecting  taxes. 
From  the  early  days  of  the  republic,  the  gendarmerie  was  the 
only  body  available  to  subdue  unrest,  enforce  the  principles  of 
Atatiirk,  suppress  opposition,  and  collect  levies. 

The  gendarmerie  has  relatively  few  officers  and  NCOs;  the 
main  burden  of  the  service  falls  on  ordinary  conscripts  who 
predominate  in  the  force  of  70,000.  The  conscripts  are  poorly 
trained  in  matters  of  law  and  regulations  and  in  the  manner  of 
enforcing  them,  contributing  to  the  harsh  image  of  the  gen- 


364 


National  Security 


darmerie.  As  Birand  notes,  in  contrast  to  Turkish  gendarmerie 
operations,  operations  of  the  French,  Belgian,  and  Italian  gen- 
darmeries are  carried  out  primarily  by  officers  and  NCOs,  pri- 
vates being  assigned  sentry  duty  and  other  tasks  that  will  not 
bring  them  into  contact  with  the  public. 

The  commander  of  the  gendarmerie  said  in  1993  that 
efforts  were  being  made  to  tailor  the  personnel  structure  to 
enable  the  force  to  perform  its  missions  more  effectively.  Spe- 
cialized sergeants  were  being  recruited  instead  of  conscripts. 
No  longer  standardized,  unit  training  was  being  tailored  to 
conditions  in  various  regions  and  particular  types  of  missions. 
New  equipment  had  been  introduced  to  improve  air  transpor- 
tation and  surface  movement,  and  to  provide  mobile  com- 
mand, control,  communications,  and  intelligence  capabilities. 

Formed  in  1982  as  the  maritime  wing  of  the  gendarmerie, 
the  coast  guard  is  now  separate  but  also  reports  to  the  Ministry 
of  Interior.  With  a  personnel  strength  of  about  1,100,  the  coast 
guard  is  responsible  for  maintaining  the  security  of  the  coast 
and  territorial  waters,  for  conducting  missions  to  protect  its 
Exclusive  Economic  Zone  in  the  Aegean — the  boundaries  of 
which  are  under  dispute  with  Greece — for  search-and-air-res- 
cue  operations,  and  for  protecting  the  marine  environment. 
The  coast  guard  is  organized  into  four  area  commands:  the 
Black  Sea,  the  Sea  of  Marmara  and  adjacent  straits,  the  Aegean 
Sea,  and  the  Mediterranean  Sea.  Surface  patrols  are  carried 
out  by  fifty-two  patrol  vessels  and  smaller  craft.  The  most  effec- 
tive of  these  are  fourteen  search-and-rescue  vessels  of  220  tons, 
all  built  within  recent  years  in  Turkish  shipyards.  Smaller  150- 
ton  and  70-ton  patrol  boats  of  German  origin  were  nearing 
obsolescence  in  the  mid-1990s.  An  ambitious  construction  plan 
foresaw  a  major  strengthening  of  the  service  with  eight  new  ves- 
sels of  350  to  400  tons  and  forty-eight  ships  of  180  to  300  tons. 
A  number  of  helicopters  and  aircraft  were  to  be  acquired  to 
expand  a  small  maritime  air  unit  of  three  United  States-manu- 
factured OH-58  (Jet  Ranger)  helicopters. 

Intelligence  Services 

Intelligence  gathering  is  the  primary  responsibility  of  the 
National  Intelligence  Organization  (Milli  Istihbarat  Teskilati — 
MIT),  which  combines  the  functions  of  internal  and  external 
intelligence  agencies.  In  1993  a  career  diplomat,  Sonmez  Kok- 
sal,  was  named  undersecretary  in  charge  of  MIT,  the  first  civil- 
ian to  head  the  organization.  Each  branch  of  the  military  has 


365 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

its  own  intelligence  arm,  as  do  the  National  Police  and  the  gen- 
darmerie. Military  intelligence  activities  in  martial  law  areas 
aim  to  prevent  seditious  activities  against  the  state.  Intelligence 
personnel  also  engage  in  electronic  eavesdropping  and  rely  on 
reports  of  overseas  military  attaches  and  exchange  information 
with  foreign  intelligence  services. 

Military  and  civil  intelligence  requirements  are  formulated 
by  the  National  Intelligence  Coordination  Committee.  This 
committee  includes  members  of  the  staff  of  the  National  Secu- 
rity Council,  to  which  it  is  directly  responsible.  Nevertheless,  a 
lack  of  coordination  among  the  intelligence  services  is  said  to 
be  a  weakness  that  hampers  MIT  effectiveness. 

MIT  has  no  police  powers;  it  is  authorized  only  to  gather 
intelligence  and  conduct  counterintelligence  abroad  and  to 
uncover  communist,  extreme  right-wing,  and  separatist — that 
is,  Kurdish  and  Armenian — groups  internally.  The  MIT  chief 
reports  to  the  prime  minister  but  was  in  the  past  considered 
close  to  the  military.  MIT  has  been  charged  with  failing  to 
notify  the  government  when  it  became  aware  of  past  plots,  if 
not  actual  complicity  in  military  coup  attempts.  The  organiza- 
tion functions  under  strict  discipline  and  secrecy.  Housing  and 
headquarters  offices  for  its  personnel  are  colocated  in  a  com- 
pound in  Ankara. 

Kurdish  groups  in  Western  Europe  have  charged  the  Turk- 
ish intelligence  service  with  fomenting  dissension  and  unrest 
among  their  various  factions.  Although  these  claims  have  not 
been  verified,  it  seems  likely  that  infiltration  of  the  Kurdish  sep- 
aratist movement  is  a  high  priority  for  MIT.  Members  of  the 
agency  are  also  suspected  of  having  acted  as  agents  provoca- 
teurs in  leftist  organizations  during  the  1970s.  Dev  Sol  is 
believed  to  have  been  infiltrated  by  intelligence  agents,  as  raids 
on  its  establishments  in  the  early  1990s  seemed  to  demonstrate. 

Crime  and  Punishment 

The  Turkish  court  system  and  judicial  procedures  are  based 
on  European  models  adopted  after  the  establishment  of  the 
republic.  For  example,  the  system  of  criminal  justice  that 
replaced  the  Islamic  justice  system  of  the  Ottoman  Empire 
derives  from  the  Italian  penal  code,  and  civil  law  follows  the 
Swiss  model  (see  Secularist  Reforms,  ch.  2). 

Crimes  are  defined  as  either  felonies  or  misdemeanors,  the 
latter  including  minor  infractions  such  as  traffic  violations.  Fel- 


366 


National  Security 


onies  include  premeditated  homicide,  theft,  arson,  armed  rob- 
bery, embezzlement  of  state  property,  perjury,  and  rape. 

Punishments  for  felonies  fall  into  the  categories  of  strict 
imprisonment,  ordinary  imprisonment,  and  heavy  fines.  Under 
the  Criminal  Code  of  1926,  as  amended,  certain  crimes  against 
the  state  and  premeditated  murder  were  punished  with  the 
death  penalty.  In  practice,  executions  were  suspended  in  1984. 
More  than  1,000  death  sentences  were  pending  when  blanket 
commutations  were  granted  in  1986,  and  capital  punishment 
ended  formally  with  passage  of  the  Anti-Terror  Law  of  1991. 
Strict  imprisonment  entails  labor  for  between  one  year  and  life 
and,  for  a  recidivist,  could  begin  with  a  period  of  solitary  con- 
finement. Ordinary  imprisonment  can  range  up  to  twenty 
years  and  also  requires  labor.  In  serious  cases,  convictions  may 
disqualify  a  person  from  holding  public  office  and  from  prac- 
ticing a  profession  or  trade.  Withdrawal  of  the  right  to  vote  and 
payment  of  damages  or  restitution  also  may  result  from  convic- 
tion for  a  felony.  In  1986  the  Execution  of  Sentences  Act 
halved  the  time  for  prisoners  then  serving  jail  sentences.  Life 
sentences  were  reduced  to  twenty  years  and  death  sentences 
commuted  to  thirty-year  terms. 

Procedures  in  Criminal  Law 

When  the  police  (or  gendarmerie)  believe  that  a  person  has 
committed  a  crime,  the  suspect  is  taken  to  the  nearest  police 
station  for  registration  and  interrogation.  A  police  magistrate 
informs  the  suspect  of  the  charges  and  questions  the  suspect 
and  any  witnesses  to  determine  whether  a  prima  facie  case 
exists.  A  warrant  of  arrest  is  issued  when  detention  of  the 
accused  is  indicated.  In  principle,  individuals  can  be  detained 
pending  trial  only  when  there  is  a  strong  presumption  that  they 
have  committed  the  offense  with  which  they  are  charged  and 
when  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  they  intend  to  escape,  to 
destroy  traces  of  the  crime,  to  induce  accomplices  or  witnesses 
to  make  false  statements,  or  to  evade  the  obligation  to  testify. 

Important  changes  in  the  treatment  of  suspects  occurred  in 
1992  with  the  introduction  of  the  Criminal  Trials  Procedure 
Law.  This  law  affirms  the  right  of  common  criminal  suspects  to 
immediate  access  to  legal  counsel  and  the  right  to  meet  with  an 
attorney  at  any  time.  Permissible  prearraignment  detention 
was  shortened  to  twenty-four  hours  for  common  individual 
crimes  and  to  four  days  for  common  crimes  involving  conspir- 


367 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

acy.  The  practical  effect  of  the  new  law  has  been  improved 
attorney  access  for  those  charged  with  common  crimes. 

The  1991  Anti-Terror  Law  nullified  the  "thought  crimes" 
articles  of  the  penal  code.  However,  it  introduced  a  broad  and 
ambiguous  definition  of  terrorism,  enabling  the  government 
to  use  the  law  not  only  to  combat  alleged  terrorism  but  also  to 
impose  sentences  of  two  to  five  years  on  ordinary  citizens  for 
written  and  oral  propaganda,  meetings,  and  demonstrations 
aimed  at  "damaging  the  indivisible  unity  of  the  state." 

Persons  detained  for  individual  crimes  under  the  Anti-Ter- 
ror Law  must  be  brought  before  a  judge  within  forty-eight 
hours.  Anyone  charged  with  crimes  of  a  collective  political  or 
conspiratorial  nature  may  be  detained  for  up  to  fifteen  days 
and  up  to  thirty  days  in  the  ten  southeastern  provinces  under  a 
state  of  emergency  in  early  1995.  The  law  does  not  guarantee 
access  to  counsel  in  such  cases,  leaving  this  decision  to  prosecu- 
tors, who  routinely  deny  access. 

Cases  involving  minor  offenses  are  tried  by  a  justice  of  the 
peace,  a  single  judge  who  has  limited  penal  and  civil  jurisdic- 
tion. Somewhat  more  serious  offenses  are  tried  by  courts  of 
first  instance,  with  a  single  judge.  Central  criminal  courts  that 
have  a  president  and  two  judges  deal  with  crimes  punishable  by 
more  than  five  years'  imprisonment.  Three-judge  commercial 
courts  also  exist. 

Ordinary  defendants  have  the  right  to  a  public  trial  and 
must  be  provided  with  free  counsel  if  they  are  indigent.  How- 
ever, the  constitution  does  provide  for  closed  trials  in  the  inter- 
est of  "public  morality  and  public  security."  There  is  no  jury 
system;  all  cases  are  decided  by  a  judge  or  panel  of  judges.  The 
constitution  requires  that  judges  be  independent  of  the  execu- 
tive in  the  discharge  of  their  duties,  and,  in  practice,  judges  are 
not  subject  to  government  interference.  Defense  lawyers  have 
access  to  the  prosecutor's  files  after  arraignment  and  prior  to 
the  trial.  Release  may  be  granted  after  arraignment  upon  pay- 
ment of  bail  or  presentation  of  an  appropriate  guarantee. 

Eight  state  security  courts,  each  composed  of  five  mem- 
bers— two  civilian  judges,  one  military  judge,  and  two  prosecu- 
tors— may  try  defendants  accused  of  terrorism,  drug 
smuggling,  membership  in  illegal  organizations,  or  espousing 
and  disseminating  prohibited  ideas.  The  state  security  courts 
mainly  handle  cases  under  the  Anti-Terror  Law.  As  of  the  end 
of  1993,  a  total  of  3,792  persons  had  been  detained  under  the 
law,  and  811  persons  were  serving  sentences  under  its  provi- 


368 


National  Security 


sions.  In  addition  to  the  longer  prearraignment  detention  the 
law  permits,  the  state  security  courts  can  hold  closed  hearings 
and  may  admit  testimony  gathered  during  police  interrogation 
in  the  absence  of  counsel.  Verdicts  of  the  courts  may  be 
appealed  to  a  special  State  Security  Court  of  Appeals. 

Martial  law  courts  established  after  the  1980  coup  continue 
to  function  in  those  provinces  under  martial  law.  Military 
courts  hear  cases  involving  infractions  of  military  law  by  mem- 
bers of  the  armed  forces.  A  separate  military  court  appeals  sys- 
tem applies.  In  late  1993,  two  television  journalists  received 
two-month  sentences  from  a  military  court  for  presenting  a 
program  on  military  deserters  and  draft  evaders  in  the  first 
known  case  of  civilians  tried  in  a  military  court  while  Turkey 
was  under  civilian  rule. 

Incidence  of  Crime 

The  incidence  of  ordinary  crime  is  considered  low  in  com- 
parison to  rates  in  other  Middle  Eastern  and  some  West  Euro- 
pean countries.  As  in  many  other  countries  with  even  better 
data-gathering  capabilities,  the  statistics  on  criminal  acts  may 
be  unreliable.  The  penal  registry  maintained  by  the  Ministry  of 
Justice  offers  only  a  partial  indication  of  the  actual  extent  of 
crime.  Moreover,  in  much  of  rural  Turkey  acts  formally  consid- 
ered police  matters  may  be  addressed  in  the  local  community 
without  coming  to  the  attention  of  the  gendarmerie. 

Official  statistics  indicate  a  doubling  of  prison  admissions 
between  1984  and  1991.  This  increase  was  due  almost  entirely 
to  a  rapid  rise  in  the  number  of  persons  jailed  "according  to 
special  laws,"  meaning  presumably  those  convicted  of  terrorism 
or  illegal  political  activity.  In  numerous  categories  of  ordinary 
crime,  the  number  of  prison  admissions  actually  fell  from  1984 
to  1991.  Nevertheless,  it  is  generally  believed  that  the  incidence 
of  ordinary  crime  has  been  growing  because  of  the  economic, 
social,  and  cultural  stresses  associated  with  relatively  rapid 
urbanization  and  the  weakening  of  traditional  social  controls 
among  urban  immigrants. 

According  to  the  Statistical  Yearbook  of  Turkey,  1993,  the  num- 
ber of  convicts  entering  prisons  in  1991  was  53,912,  and  the 
number  discharged  was  72,885.  In  most  years,  the  number  of 
admissions  and  discharges  is  nearly  equal;  the  higher  rate  of 
discharges  in  1991  was  probably  a  result  of  the  release  of  those 
convicted  under  political  clauses  of  the  penal  code  repealed 
that  year.  Among  the  most  common  felonies  resulting  in  incar- 


369 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

ceration  in  1991  were  crimes  against  property  (8,360),  crimes 
against  individuals  (5,879),  and  crimes  against  "public  decency 
and  family  order"  (2,681).  The  numbers  of  persons  admitted  to 
prison  bore  little  relation  to  the  number  of  cases  brought 
before  the  various  criminal  courts.  According  to  official  statis- 
tics, more  than  52,000  new  cases  were  brought  before  the  cen- 
tral criminal  courts,  632,000  before  the  criminal  courts  of  first 
instance,  and  493,000  before  the  justices  of  the  peace. 

The  number  entering  prisons  under  special  laws  rose  rap- 
idly, from  7,514  in  1985  to  32,645  in  1991.  Although  Turkish 
sources  offer  no  explanation  of  the  increase,  the  period  corre- 
sponds to  the  spiraling  Kurdish  dissidence  and  the  strict  laws 
then  in  effect  dealing  with  "thought  crimes." 

Narcotics  Trafficking 

Turkey  plays  a  major  role  in  the  narcotics  trade,  primarily  as 
a  natural  route  for  the  movement  of  hashish  from  Pakistan, 
Afghanistan,  and  Iran  to  destinations  in  Europe.  The  disinte- 
gration of  the  Soviet  Union  has  resulted  in  a  loss  of  control 
over  drug  production  in  Central  Asia  and  Afghanistan.  Unrest 
in  Azerbaijan  and  Georgia  facilitates  smuggling  from  the  Cau- 
casus area.  Turkish  police  maintain  that  the  PKK  is  heavily 
involved  in  the  heroin  trade.  The  use  of  air  and  sea  routes  for 
narcotics  transshipment  through  Turkey  has  grown  as  the  con- 
flict in  former  Yugoslavia  has  disrupted  the  traditional  over- 
land routes  through  the  Balkans. 

Turkey  is  an  important  processing  point  for  morphine  base 
and  heroin  base  imported  into  the  country.  Also,  the  Turks  tra- 
ditionally have  grown  the  opium  poppy  for  medicinal  pur- 
poses. The  government  effectively  controls  the  cultivation  and 
production  of  opiates,  paying  high  prices  for  the  crop  and  care- 
fully monitoring  growing  areas.  Local  drug  consumption  and 
abuse  are  considered  minor  problems,  although  there  are 
some  indications  that  heroin  and  cocaine  use  is  increasing 
among  the  more  affluent  segments  of  the  population. 

Nationwide  there  are  more  than  1,000  narcotics  law 
enforcement  officers.  The  principal  law  enforcement  agencies 
concerned  with  narcotics  are  the  National  Police  and  the  gen- 
darmerie. Turkish  customs  agencies  have  lacked  a  professional 
cadre  of  narcotics  interdiction  agents,  but  in  the  mid-1990s 
were  working  toward  creating  such  a  body  with  United  States 
training  assistance.  The  coast  guard  has  also  begun  playing  a 
larger  role  in  interdiction.  In  spite  of  Turkey's  efforts,  it  is 


370 


National  Security 


believed  that  little  of  the  heroin  passing  through  the  country  is 
seized  because  of  insufficient  staff  to  screen  cargoes  ade- 
quately, particularly  at  the  key  transfer  point  of  Istanbul. 

There  is  no  evidence  of  widespread  corruption  among 
senior  officials  engaged  in  drug  law  enforcement.  In  some 
cases,  however,  drug  investigations  have  been  compromised  by 
corruption  at  lower  levels  of  the  criminal  justice  system,  as  well 
as  within  the  judicial  system  once  traffickers  have  been  appre- 
hended. Because  Turkey  has  no  legislation  prohibiting  money 
laundering,  it  is  almost  impossible  to  track  inflows  of  drug  prof- 
its. However,  the  Turkish  government  has  indicated  its  inten- 
tion to  introduce  laws  to  deal  with  this  practice. 

Data  on  seizures  of  heroin  and  hashish  show  an  upward 
trend  in  the  five-year  period  between  1989  and  1993.  Hashish 
seizures  increased  from  6.9  tons  in  1989  to  28.7  tons  in  1993. 
However,  a  major  factor  was  a  single  seizure  of  more  than  2.7 
tons  of  morphine  base  and  13.5  tons  of  hashish  aboard  a  Turk- 
ish merchant  ship  in  January  1993. 

Individual  Rights 

Under  the  martial-law  regime  established  after  the  1980 
coup,  Turkey's  citizens  suffered  a  serious  curtailment  of  nor- 
mal civil  rights.  Starting  in  1983,  when  parliamentary  elections 
were  held,  the  government  gradually  lifted  restraints  on  indi- 
vidual liberties  and  progressively  withdrew  martial  law  from 
major  cities  and  provinces.  Restrictions  on  the  press  were 
removed  in  1985,  making  it  permissible  to  publish  all  views 
except  those  banned  by  the  penal  code.  The  1987  state  of 
emergency  declared  in  ten  southeastern  provinces  where  the 
government  faced  terrorist  violence  allowed  the  civilian  gover- 
nor to  exercise  certain  powers  verging  on  martial  law,  includ- 
ing warrantless  searches  and  restrictions  on  the  press. 

Although  progress  has  been  made  in  reducing  human 
rights  abuses  since  the  military  government  period,  mistreat- 
ment by  the  police  in  the  form  of  beatings  and  torture  has 
remained  a  seemingly  intractable  problem.  Reports  of  illegal 
practices,  in  some  cases  extrajudicial  killings,  deaths  in  custody, 
and  disappearances,  have  become  more  widespread  since 
1992,  when  violence  resulting  from  the  Kurdish  insurgency 
reached  unprecedented  levels.  The  Turkish  government  has 
renewed  previous  pledges  to  end  the  use  of  torture  by  the  secu- 
rity forces,  but  little  has  been  achieved  in  curbing  the  excesses 
of  the  police  and  military. 


371 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

The  widespread  evidence  of  torture  and  severe  ill-treatment 
of  detainees  has  been  condemned  by  numerous  international 
groups,  such  as  the  Council  of  Europe's  Committee  for  the  Pre- 
vention of  Torture  and  the  United  Nations  Committee  on  Tor- 
ture.  Within  Turkey,  illegal  police  activities  have  been 
monitored  by  the  Human  Rights  Association  since  that  organi- 
zation received  official  approval  in  1987.  The  association  subse- 
quently attracted  a  membership  of  about  20,000  and  opened 
branches  in  fifty  of  the  provincial  capitals.  The  companion 
Human  Rights  Foundation  of  Turkey,  established  in  1990, 
operates  torture-rehabilitation  centers  in  Ankara,  Izmir,  and 
Istanbul,  and  serves  as  a  clearinghouse  for  human  rights  infor- 
mation. Besides  enduring  government-imposed  restrictions, 
the  Human  Rights  Association  has  seen  nine  people  associated 
with  the  organization  slain.  The  group's  leadership  has 
charged  that  nearly  half  of  its  offices  have  been  forced  to  close 
because  of  police  pressure. 

The  Human  Rights  Foundation  has  claimed  that  govern- 
ment security  forces  were  responsible  for  ninety-one  extrajudi- 
cial killings  during  the  first  nine  months  of  1993,  and  that 
security  forces  were  implicated  in  many  of  the  291  "mystery  kill- 
ings" during  the  same  period.  Perhaps  twenty  persons  died  in 
official  custody,  some  allegedly  as  a  result  of  torture.  Other  kill- 
ings occurred  during  raids  on  terrorist  safe  houses,  or  when 
deadly  force  was  used  against  unarmed  civilians  participating 
in  peaceful  demonstrations. 

Turkish  human  rights  advocates  believe  that  most  persons 
charged  with  political  crimes  undergo  torture,  usually  while  in 
incommunicado  detention  in  the  hands  of  the  police  or  gen- 
darmerie before  being  brought  before  a  court.  About  half  of 
the  ordinary  criminal  suspects  are  thought  to  undergo  torture 
while  under  police  interrogation.  In  the  event  that  law  enforce- 
ment officers  are  charged  in  torture  cases,  the  sentences 
imposed  are  generally  light  or  the  cases  drag  on  for  years. 

The  constitution  guarantees  inviolability  of  the  domicile 
and  privacy  of  communications  except  upon  issuance  of  a  judi- 
cial warrant.  However,  in  the  southeastern  provinces  that  are 
under  state  of  emergency  the  governor  may  authorize  warrant- 
less search.  In  these  areas,  security  personnel  at  roadblocks  reg- 
ularly search  travelers  and  vehicles  in  an  effort  to  apprehend 
smugglers  and  terrorists. 

University  students  and  faculty  members  may  not  be  mem- 
bers of  political  parties  or  become  involved  in  political  activi- 


372 


National  Security 


ties.  Youth  branches  of  political  parties  are  forbidden,  and  the 
university  rector  must  grant  permission  for  a  student  to  join 
any  association.  Political  activity  by  trade  unions  is  also  banned. 
Thus,  unions  may  neither  endorse  candidates  nor  make  contri- 
butions to  their  campaigns;  they  are,  however,  able  to  make 
known  their  opposition  to  or  support  of  political  parties  and 
government  policies.  Collective  bargaining  and  strikes  are 
strictly  regulated.  Unions  must  have  government  permission  to 
hold  meetings  and  rallies  but  are  permitted  to  organize  work- 
places freely  and  to  engage  in  collective  bargaining  (see 
Human  Resources  and  Trade  Unions,  ch.  3;  Political  Interest 
Groups,  ch.  4). 

In  March  1994,  seven  Kurdish  legislators  were  arrested  on 
the  parliament  grounds.  Indictments  were  prepared  against 
them  for  writings  and  speeches  deemed  supportive  of  Kurdish 
separatism.  The  incident  aroused  considerable  controversy 
both  domestically  and  internationally;  all  seven  assembly  mem- 
bers were  given  long  prison  terms  in  late  1994. 

Freedom  of  conscience  and  religious  belief  is  guaranteed  by 
the  constitution,  as  is  private  dissemination  of  religious  ideas. 
However,  religious  activity  is  strictly  supervised  in  accordance 
with  the  principles  of  secularism  and  separation  of  church  and 
state.  No  political  party  advocating  a  theocracy  or  government 
founded  on  religious  principles  is  permitted.  The  operation  of 
churches,  monasteries,  synagogues,  and  schools  must  be 
approved  by  the  state.  Armenian  and  Greek  churches  are  care- 
fully monitored,  and  prosecutors  have  brought  charges  of  pros- 
elytism  against  Islamists  and  evangelical  Christian  groups 
deemed  to  have  political  overtones.  Courts  have  not  been  sym- 
pathetic to  such  charges,  but  the  police  have  acted  against 
some  evangelical  Christians  by  refusing  to  renew  their  resi- 
dence permits  and  expelling  them. 

Penal  System 

The  civil  penal  system  is  administered  by  the  General  Direc- 
torate of  Prisons  and  Houses  of  Detention  in  the  Ministry  of 
Justice.  There  is  a  prison  or  jail  in  almost  every  town  and  at 
least  one  in  every  district.  The  older  penal  institutions  include 
most  of  the  town  and  district  jails  and  the  larger  provincial  pris- 
ons in  use  since  Ottoman  times.  These  are  gradually  being  sup- 
plemented by  newer  "penitentiary  labor  establishments"  whose 
distinguishing  feature  is  the  availability  of  equipment  for  labor. 
Prison  labor  is  compulsory  for  all  in  old  and  new  prisons.  Pris- 


373 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

oners  are  allowed  to  send  up  to  one-half  of  their  prison  earn- 
ings to  a  dependent;  part  is  withheld  for  rations,  and  the 
remainder  goes  to  the  prisoner  upon  discharge.  Prisons  were 
previously  known  to  be  overcrowded,  but  the  apparent  reduc- 
tion in  jail  sentences  for  common  crimes  and  the  commutation 
of  longer  sentences  may  have  mitigated  the  problem. 

According  to  official  data,  the  number  of  convicts  in  prisons 
declined  from  more  than  46,000  in  1984  to  10,656  in  1991.  The 
drop  in  the  prison  population  took  place  mainly  between  1986 
and  1991,  when  mass  releases  occurred.  When  the  large  num- 
ber sentenced  to  prison  is  compared  with  the  small  prison  pop- 
ulation at  any  one  time,  it  appears  that  many  convicts  serve 
sentences  of  only  a  few  months.  Persons  classified  as  political 
prisoners  or  terrorists  are  apparently  regarded  separately 
because  more  than  32,000  were  incarcerated  in  1991  under  the 
"special  laws"  category. 

By  and  large,  Turks  accept  the  Muslim  view  that  crime  is  a 
willful  act  and  thus  regard  penalties  as  punishment  for  the  act 
and  as  a  means  to  deter  similar  acts,  not  as  instruments  of  reha- 
bilitation or  reeducation.  There  has  been  a  trend  among  some 
specialists  and  Turkish  officials  to  view  criminal  acts  as  the 
product  of  social  conditions  and  therefore  to  emphasize  reha- 
bilitation, but  this  view  has  had  only  limited  influence  on  penal 
practice. 

Whereas  torture  of  both  political  and  ordinary  prisoners  by 
security  forces  is  a  deep-rooted  problem,  much  of  it  occurs 
prior  to  court  hearings.  Incidents  arising  from  mistreatment  in 
prisons  have  been  decreasing  in  recent  years.  However,  in  two 
cases  mentioned  in  1992  by  the  international  human  rights 
group  Amnesty  International,  large  numbers  of  prisoners  were 
beaten,  some  seriously,  for  protesting  against  prison  disciplin- 
ary measures. 

After  widespread  hunger  strikes  in  1989,  the  minister  of  jus- 
tice introduced  a  number  of  reforms  to  improve  prison  condi- 
tions, including  an  end  to  corporal  punishment,  bread-and- 
water  diets,  and  solitary  confinement  in  unlighted  cells.  The 
government,  however,  continued  to  be  faced  with  domestic 
and  international  criticism  and  subsequently  announced  a 
prison  reform  bill  in  1993.  At  the  end  of  1994,  parliament  had 
not  enacted  promised  prison  reforms. 

*  *  * 


374 


National  Security 


Discussion  in  this  chapter  of  the  size,  organization,  and 
armaments  of  the  Turkish  armed  forces  is  based  in  part  on  The 
Military  Balance,  1994-1995,  published  by  the  International 
Institute  for  Strategic  Studies  in  London,  and  on  Jane's  Fighting 
Ships,  1994-95  Additional  material  can  be  found  in  the  section 
on  Turkey  by  Mark  Stenhouse  in  Jane's  NATO  Handbook,  1991— 
92. 

An  authoritative  statement  by  Turkish  chief  of  staff  General 
Dogan  Giires  on  the  new  strategy  and  restructuring  of  the 
armed  forces  is  contained  in  the  June  1993  issue  of  the  Journal 
of  the  Royal  United  Services  Institute  for  Defence  Studies.  Graham  E. 
Fuller  and  other  authors  address  Turkey's  changed  geostrate- 
gic  situation  following  the  collapse  of  the  Soviet  Union  in  Tur- 
key's New  Geopolitics:  From  the  Balkans  to  Western  China.  Turkish 
military  leaders  analyze  the  missions  and  capabilities  of  the 
individual  service  branches  in  a  series  of  articles  in  a  special 
1993  issue  of  NATO's  Sixteen  Nations  called  "Defence  of  Turkey." 

A  book  by  a  noted  Turkish  journalist,  Mehmet  Ali  Birand, 
Shirts  of  Steel:  An  Anatomy  of  the  Turkish  Armed  Forces,  provides 
previously  unfamiliar  details  on  the  military  education  system, 
military  traditions  and  institutions,  and  the  perspectives  and 
aspirations  of  career  officers. 

Discussion  of  Turkey's  human  rights  record  can  be  found  in 
publications  by  Amnesty  International  and  in  the  annual  Coun- 
try Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices  published  by  the  United 
States  Department  of  State.  (For  further  information  and  com- 
plete citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


375 


Appendix  A 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  The  House  of  Osman:  Sultans  of  the  Ottoman  Empire, 

1281-1922 

3  Presidents  and  Prime  Ministers,  1920-95 

4  Population  by  Age-Group,  1980,  1990,  and  2000 

5  Economically  Active  Population  by  Sector,  Selected  Years, 

1970-93 

6  Summary  of  Consolidated  Budget,  1988-93 

7  Production  of  Major  Agricultural  Commodities,  1987-92 

8  Energy  Production,  1988-92 

9  Exports  by  Commodity,  1987-92 

10  Imports  by  Commodity,  1987-92 

11  Major  Trading  Partners,  1988-95 

12  Summary  of  Balance  of  Payments,  Selected  Years,  1985-93 

13  Major  Army  Equipment,  1994 

14  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1994 

15  Major  Naval  Equipment,  1994 


377 


Appendix  A 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

When  you  know  Multiply  by  To  find 


Millimeters   

0.04 

inches 

Centimeters  

0.39 

inches 

Meters  

3.3 

feet 

Kilometers  

0.62 

miles 

Hectares   

2.47 

acres 

0.39 

square  miles 

Cubic  meters  

H ''■  35.3 

cubic  feet 

Liters  

0.26 

gallons 

Kilograms   

2.2 

pounds 

Metric  tons   

0.98 

long  tons 

1.1 

short  tons 

2,204.0 

pounds 

Degrees  Celsius  (Centigrade)   

1.8 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

and  add  32 


379 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Table  2.  The  House  of  Osman:  Sultans  of  the  Ottoman  Empire, 

1281-1922 


Name  Lineage  Reigned 


Osman  I    Son  of  the  gad  1281-13241 

Ertugrul 

Orhan   Son  of  Osman  1324-60 

MuradI   Son  of  Orhan  1360^89 

Bayezid  I2   Son  of  MuradI  1389-1402 

Suleyman2   Son  of  Bayezid  I  1402-11 

Musa2    Son  of  Bayezid  I  1411-13 

Mehmetl2   Son  of  Bayezid  I  1413-21 

Muradll   Son  of  Mehmetl  1421-44, 

1446-51 

Mehmet  II   Son  of  Murad  II  1444-46, 

1451-81 

Bayezid  II    Son  of  Mehmet  II  1481-1512 

Selim  I   Son  of  Bayezid  II  1512-20 

Suleyman  I3    Son  of  Selim  I  1520-66 

Selim  II   Son  of  Suleyman  I  1566-74 

Murad  in    Son  of  Selim  II  1574-95 

Mehmet  III   Son  of  Murad  III  1595-1603 

Ahmet  I   Son  of  Mehmet  III  1603-17 

Mustafa  I   Son  of  Ahmet  I  1617-18 

Osman  II   Son  of  Ahmet  I  1618-22 

Mustafa  I   Son  of  Ahmet  I  1622-23 

Murad  IV    Nephew  of  Mustafa  I  1623^0 

Ibrahim   Brother  of  Murad  IV  1640-48 

Mehmet  IV   Son  of  Ibrahim  1648-S7 

Suleyman  II4   Son  of  Ibrahim  1687-91 

Ahmet  II   Son  of  Ibrahim  1691-95 

Mustafa  II   Son  of  Mehmet  IV  1695-1703 

Ahmet  ID    Son  of  Mehmet  IV  1703-30 

Mahmud  I   Son  of  Mustafa  II  1730-54 

Osman  III   Son  of  Mustafa  II  1754-57 

Mustafa  in    Son  of  Ahmet  HI  1757-74 

Abdul  Hamid  I   Brother  of  Mustafa  HI  1774-89 

Selim  in    Nephew  of  Abdul  1789-1807 

Hamid  I 

Mustafa  IV    Cousin  of  Selim  HI  1807-08 

Mahmud  II   Brother  of  Mustafa  IV  1808-39 

Abdulmecid  I   Son  of  Mahmud  II  1839-61 

Abdulaziz    Son  of  Mahmud  II  1861-76 

Murad  V   Son  of  Abdulmecid  I  1876 

Abdul  Hamid  U    Son  of  Abdulmecid  I  1876-1909 

Mehmet  V   Son  of  Abdulmecid  I  1909-18 


380 


Appendix  A 


Table  2.  The  House  of  Osman:  Sultans  of  the  Ottoman  Empire, 

1281-1922 


Name 

Lineage 

Reigned 

MehmetVI   

  Son  of  Abdulmecid  I 

1918-225 

Date  of  beginning  of  reign  is  approximate. 

The  period  1403—13,  during  which  the  sons  of  Bayezid  I  contested  succession  to  the  sultanate,  is  cited  as  an 
interregnum  by  many  sources.  Other  sources  date  the  beginning  of  the  reign  of  Mehmet  I  from  1403. 
Suleyman  II  in  some  sources. 
Suleyman  III  in  some  sources. 

Sultanate  abolished  1922;  Abdulmecid  II  (brother  of  Mehmet  VI)  remained  as  caliph  1922-24. 


Table  3.  Presidents  and  Prime  Ministers,  1920-95 


President 

Prime  Minister 

Period  in  Office 

Ataturk1 

May  1920-January  1921 

Fevzi  Cakmak1 

January  1921-July  1922 

Rauf  Orbay1 

July  1922-August  1923 

Fethi  Okyar1 

August-October  1923 

A     M*i  rk 

ALdLUl  IS. 

(1923-38) 

Tsmpf  Tnonfi  ffHP\2 

Nnvpmhpr  1  Q9^— Nnvpmher  1  Q94 

Fethi  Okyar  (Progressive 
Republican  Party) 

November  1924-March  1925 

Ismet  Inonu  (CHP) 

March  1925-October  1937 

Ismet  Inonu 
(1938-50) 

Celal  Bayar  (CHP) 

October  1937-January  1939 

Refik  Saydam  (CHP) 

January  1939-July  1942 

Sukru  Saracoglu  (CHP) 

July  1942-August  1946 

Recep  Peker  (CHP) 

August  1946^September  1947 

Hasan  Saka  (CHP) 

September  1947-January  1949 

Semsettin  Giinaltay  (CHP) 

January  1949-May  1950 

Celal  Bayar 
(1950-60) 

Adnan  Menderes  (DP)3 

May  1950-May  1960 

Cemal  Gursel 
(1960-66) 

Cemal  Gursel4 

May  1960-November  1961 

Ismet  Inonu  (CHP) 

November  1961-February  1965 

Suat  Hayri  Urgiiplu 
(Independent) 

February-October  1965 

Suleyman  Demirel  (AP)5 

October  1965-March  1971 

Cevdet  Sunay 
(1966-73) 

Nihat  Erim  (Independent) 

March  1971-April  1972 

Ferit  Melen6  (NRP)7 

April  1972 

Suat  Hayri  Urgiiplu 
(Independent) 

April-May  1972 

Ferit  Melen  (NRP) 

May  1972-April  1973 

Nairn  Talu  (Independent) 

April  1973-January  1974 

381 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Table  3.  Presidents  and  Prime  Ministers,  1920-95 


President 


Prime  Minister 


Period  in  Office 


Fahri  Koruturk 
(1973-80) 


Kenan  Evren 
(1980-89) 


Turgut  Ozal 
(1989-93) 


Suleyman  Demirel 
1993- 


Bulent  Ecevit  (CHP) 

Sadi  Irmak  (Independent) 
Suleyman  Demirel  (AP) 
Bulent  Ecevit  (CHP) 
Suleyman  Demirel  (AP) 
Bulent  Ulusu  (appointed) 

Turgut  Ozal  (ANAP)9 
Ali  Bozer6  (ANAP) 
Yildirim  Akbulut  (ANAP) 

Mesut  Yilmaz  (ANAP) 
Suleyman  Demirel  (DYP)10 
Erdal  Inonii11 
Tansu  Ciller  (DYP) 


January-November  1974 

November  1974-March  1975 
March  1975-January  1978 
January  1978-October  1979 
October  1979-September  1980 
September  1980-December  1983 

December  1983-October  1989 
October-November  1989 
November  1989-June  1991 

June-November  1991 
November  1991-May  1993 
May-June  1993 
June  1993- 


1  President  of  the  Grand  National  Assembly. 

2  CHP — Cumhuriyet  Halk  Partisi  (Republican  People's  Party). 

3  DP — Demokrat  Partisi  (Democrat  Party). 

4  Interim  government  under  Committee  of  National  Unity. 

5  AP— Adalet  Partisi  (Justice  Party). 

6  Acting  prime  minister. 

7  NRP — National  Reliance  Party. 

8  Evren  functioned  as  head  of  the  National  Security  Council,  or  de  facto  chief  of  state,  from  September  1980  to 
November  1982. 

9  ANAP— Anavatan  Partisi  (Motherland  Party). 


DYP— Dogru  Yol  Partisi  (True  Path  Party) . 
Caretaker  prime  minister. 


382 


Appendix  A 


Table  4.  Population  by  Age-Group,  1980,  1990,  and  2000 
(in  percentages) 


Age-Group  1980  1990  2000 


0-14    39.2  34.8  31.8 

15-64    56.1  61.2  62.6 

Over  65    4.7  4.2  5.6 

TOTAL2    100.0  100.0  100.0 

Projected. 


Figures  may  not  add  to  totals  because  of  rounding. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Dorling  Kindersley  World  Reference  Atlas,  New 
York,  1994,  546 


Table  5.  Economically  Active  Population  by  Sector,  Selected  Years, 

1970-93 

(in  thousands  of  workers  over  age  fifteen) 


Sector 

1970 

1980 

1990 

1993 

Agriculture,  fishing,  and  forestry   

8,237 

8,353 

8,723 

8,397 

665 

895 

973 

1,141 

Manufacturing   

1,343 

2,057 

2,553 

2,693 

156 

188 

202 

131 

Trade  and  hotels  

886 

1,429 

2,093 

2,338 

Transportation  and  communications  

417 

612 

808 

898 

Other,  including  services  

1,330 

2,168 

3,012 

3,104 

13,034 

15,702 

18,364 

18,702 

Unemployment  

871 

1,376 

1,590 

1,530 

Unemployment  rate  (in  percentages)   

6.3 

8.1 

8.0 

7.6 

CrVTLIAN  LABOR  FORCE   

13,905 

17,078 

19,954 

20,232 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and 
Development,  OECD  Economic  Surveys:  Turkey,  1995,  Paris,  1995,  9. 


383 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Table  6.  Summary  of  Consolidated  Budget,  1988-93 
(in  billions  of  Turkish  lira) 1 


1988 

1989 

1990 

1991 

1992 

1993 

Revenues 

Tax  revenues 

14,232 

25,550 

45,399 

78,643 

141,602 

264,273 

Non-tax  reve- 

3,355 

5,819 

11,174 

18,104 

32,622 

87,119 

nues 

Total  reve- 

17,587 

31,369 

56,573 

96,747 

174,224 

351,392 

nues 

Expenditures 

Current  expen- 
ditures 

7,460 

16,660 

33,452 

60,403 

114,221 

204,829 

Investments 

3,564 

5,818 

10,055 

17,146 

29,239 

53,161 

Transfers  to 
SEEs2 

1,025 

1,223 

1,265 

12,191 

8,145 

25,850 

Interest  pay- 

4,998 

8,259 

13,966 

24,073 

40,298 

116,470 

ments 

Other  transfers 

4,420 

6,911 

9,789 

16,450 

29,755 

89,939 

Total  expendi- 
tures 

21,447 

38,871 

68,527 

130,263 

221.658 

485,249 

Budget  bal- 

-3,860 

-7,502 

-11,954 

-33,516 

-47,434 

-133,857 

ance 

Deferred  minus 
advanced  pay- 
ments 

-81 

-639 

^00 

90 

-12,005 

7,754 

Cash  balance 

-3,941 

-8,141 

-12,354 

-33,426 

-59,439 

-126,103 

Long-term  bor- 
rowing (net) 

2,609 

5,578 

7,983 

4,200 

19,446 

51,197 

Short-term  bor- 
rowing (net) 

1,064 

1,452 

2,263 

23,509 

41,372 

75,251 

Other  (including 
errors  and  omis- 
sions) 

268 

1,111 

2,108 

5,717 

-1,379 

-345 

For  value  of  the  Turkish  lira — see  Glossary. 
2  SEEs — State  Economic  Enterprises. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and 
Developmnent,  OECD  Economic  Surveys:  Turkey,  1995,  Paris,  1995,  105. 


384 


Appendix  A 


Table  7.  Production  of  Major  Agricultural  Commodities,  1987-92 
(in  thousands  of  tons) 

Commodity  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992 


Cereals 

Wheat  

18,932 

20,500 

Barley  

6,900 

7,500 

Corn  

2,600 

2,000 

Rye  

385 

280 

Oats   

325 

276 

Rice   

165 

158 

Total  cereals  .  .  . 

29,307 

30,714 

Industrial  crops 

Sugar  beets  .... 

12,717 

11,534 

Cotton  (lint)  .  .  . 

537 

657 

Tobacco 

177 

212 

Total  industrial 
crops  

13,431 

12,403 

Oilseeds 

Sunflower  seed 

1,100 

1,150 

Cottonseed 

859 

1,051 

Sesame  seed 

43 

45 

Total  oilseeds  .  . 

2,002 

2,246 

Vegetables,  fruits, 
and  nuts 

Potatoes  

4,300 

4,350 

Grapes   

3,300 

3,350 

Oranges  

700 

740 

Olives  

600 

1,100 

Lemons   

340 

360 

Hazelnuts  (in 
shell)  

280 

353 

Raisins   

105 

129 

Dried  figs  

45 

50 

Olive  oil  

100 

90 

Total  vegetables, 
fruits,  and 
nuts   

9,770 

10,522 

16,200 

20,000 

20,400 

19,318 

4,500 

7,300 

7,800 

6,900 

2,000 

2,100 

2,100 

2,100 

191 

240 

250 

225 

216 

270 

255 

250 

181 

230 

200 

215 

23,288 

30,140 

31,005 

29,008 

10,929 

13,986 

15,097 

14,800 

565 

655 

539 

605 

270 

288 

243 

320 

11,764 

14,929 

15,879 

15,725 

1,250 

860 

800 

950 

1 ,401 

1  ,o  1 5 

37 

39 

43 

34 

2,191 

2,601 

2,244 

2,557 

4,080 

4,300 

4,600 

4,500 

3,430 

3,500 

3,600 

3,460 

740 

739 

835 

824 

500 

1,100 

640 

750 

335 

357 

429 

420 

456 

375 

315 

520 

138 

135 

130 

120 

50 

45 

45 

35 

 72 

110 

96 

n.a. 

9,801 

10,661 

10,690 

10,629 

n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Turkey, 
1994-95,  London,  1994,  24. 


385 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Table  8.  Energy  Production,  1988-92 
(in  thousands  of  tons  unless  otherwise  indicated) 


1988 

1989 

1990 

1991 

1992 

Total  coal  (including 

11,530 

12,940 

12,550 

11,880 

12,210 

Crude  petroleum  

2,564 

2,876 

3,720 

4,537 

4,584 

Main  petroleum  products  .... 

19,265 

17,789 

18,563 

18,409 

18,811 

Electricity  (in  thousands  of 

48 

52 

58 

58 

67 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Turkey, 
1994-1995,  London,  1994,  28;  and  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation 
and  Development,  Energy  Balances  of  OECD  Countries,  1991-1992,  Paris,  1994, 
170. 


Table  9.  Exports  by  Commodity,  1987-92 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 

1987         1988         1989  1990  1991  1992 


Agricultural  products 


266 

441 

315 

342 

287 

419 

Hazelnuts   

391 

359 

266 

456 

366 

291 

Other  fruits  and 

vegetables  

409 

508 

523 

612 

721 

692 

Cotton  

20 

141 

160 

191 

193 

46 

Tobacco   

314 

266 

480 

419 

564 

309 

Other  industral  crops  and 

forestry  products  

97 

289 

53 

57 

284 

268 

Live  animals  and  sea  prod- 

ucts   

356 

337 

330 

272 

268 

178 

Total  agricultural 

products  

1,853 

2,341 

2,127 

2,349 

2,683 

2,203 

Mineral  products  

272 

377 

413 

331 

286 

265 

Processed  and  manufactured 

products 

Processed  agricultural 

products  

954 

885 

918 

940 

1,212 

1,337 

Textiles  and  clothing  .  .  . 

2,707 

3,201 

3,505 

4,060 

4,328 

5,268 

386 


Appendix  A 


Table  9.  Exports  by  Commodity,  1987-92 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1987 

1988 

1989 

1990 

1991 

1992 

Hides  and  leather  

722 

514 

604 

747 

620 

568 

Chemicals   

527 

734 

774 

616 

464 

491 

Petroleum  products  .... 

232 

331 

254 

287 

277 

231 

Glass  and  ceramics   

205 

233 

258 

329 

359 

395 

Iron  and  steel   

852 

1,458 

1,349 

1,612 

1,452 

1,558 

Metal  products  and 
machinery  

788 

383 

219 

230 

265 

398 

Electrical  equipment  and 
products  

293 

294 

234 

438 

533 

591 

Other  

785 

911 

972 

1.020 

1,119 

1.410 

Total  processed 
and  manufactured 
products  

8,065 

8,944 

9,087 

10,279 

10,629 

12,247 

TOTAL   

10,190 

11,662 

11,627 

12,959 

13,598 

14,715 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and 
Development,  OECD  Economic  Surveys:  Turkey,  1995,  Paris,  1995,  96;  and  Econo- 
mist Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Turkey,  1994-95,  London,  1994,  43. 


387 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Table  1 0.  Imports  by  Commodity,  1 98 7- 92 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 1 


Commodity 

1987 

1988 

1989 

1990 

1991 

1992 

Agricultural  products  and 
livestock  

782 

499 

1,041 

1,323 

813 

1,184 

Ivlineral  products 

Oil 

Crude  oil 

2,711 

2,434 

2  456 

3,817 

2  794 

2  894 

Oil  products 

245 

343 

522 

805 

962 

865 

Total  oil 

2,956 

2,777 

2,980 

4,622 

3,756 

3,759 

Other 

444 

427 

448 

172 

198 

161 

Total  mineral 

products  

3,400 

3,204 

3,426 

4,794 

3,954 

3,920 

Processed  and  manufac- 

tured products 

Processed  agricultural 
products  

720 

738 

843 

1,162 

989 

935 

Manufactured  products 

Chemicals 

1,685 

1,781 

1,710 

2,451 

2,463 

2,624 

Rubber  and  plastics  .  . 

488 

525 

485 

807 

848 

986 

Iron  and  steel  

1,537 

1,655 

2,217 

1,932 

2,009 

2,118 

Non  ferrous  metals  .  . 

418 

412 

421 

537 

452 

426 

Electrical  appliances  . 

940 

1,075 

1,028 

1,580 

1,877 

1,762 

Motor  vehicles  

540 

690 

790 

1,590 

1,540 

2,221 

Other  machinery  .... 

974 

635 

370 

585 

342 

61 

Other  industrial  prod- 

ucts   

2,799 

3,121 

3.461 

5,541 

5,760 

6,635 

Total  manufac- 

tured prod- 
ucts   

9,381 

9.894 

10.482 

15,023 

15,291 

16.833 

Total  processed 
and  manufac- 

tured prod- 
ucts   

10,101 

10,632 

11,325 

16,185 

16,280 

17,768 

TOTAL  

14,283 

14,335 

15,792 

22,302 

21,047 

22,872 

1  C.I.F. — Cost,  insurance,  and  freight. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and 
Development,  OECD  Economic  Surveys:  Turkey,  1995,  Paris,  1995,  97;  and  Econo- 
mist Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Turkey,  1994-95,  London,  1994,  44. 


388 


Appendix  A 


Table  11.  Major  Trading  Partners,  1988-95 


Country  1988        1989         1990         1991  1992  1993 


EXPORTS 

OECD  countries1 

EU  countries2 

Britain  

France  

Germany  

Italy  

Other   

Total  EU   

Japan   

Switzerland   

United  States  

Other  OECD   

Total  OECD  

Central  and  East  European 
countries   

Middle  East  and  North 
Africa 

Iran  

Iraq  

Other  

Total  Middle  East  and 
North  Africa  

Other  

TOTAL  EXPORTS  

IMPORTS 

OECD  countries 

EU  countries 

Britain  

France  

Germany  

Italy  

Other   

Total  EU   

Japan   

Switzerland   

United  States  

Other  OECD   

Total  OECD  

Central  and  East  European 
coutnries   


576 

616 

744 

676 

796 

835 

499 

595 

111 

lot 

689 

809 

in 
ill 

2,178 

2,196 

3,076 

3,413 

3,660 

3,654 

955 

978 

1,106 

972 

943 

750 

920 

1,047 

1,241 

1.292 

1,393 

1.283 

5,128 

5,432 

6,904 

7,042 

7,601 

7,293 

209 

233 

239 

226 

162 

158 

265 

174 

293 

246 

223 

216 

761 

971 

968 

913 

865 

986 

374 

391 

417 

430 

496 

420 

6,737 

7,201 

8,821 

8,857 

9,346 

9,072 

520 

923 

829 

1,053 

1,217 

1,670 

546 

561 

495 

487 

455 

290 

986 

445 

215 

122 

212 

160 

1,924 

1,798 

1,742 

2.085 

2.096 

2.293 

3,456 

2,804 

2,452 

2,694 

2,763 

2,743 

949 

699 

855 

989 

1,388 

1,863 

11,662 

11,627 

12,957 

13,593 

14,715 

15,349 

739 

728 

1,014 

1,166 

1,187 

1,546 

829 

745 

1,340 

1,227 

1,351 

1,952 

2,067 

2,225 

3,523 

3,232 

3,754 

4,533 

1,006 

1,071 

1,727 

1,845 

1,919 

2,558 

1,267 

1,307 

1.750 

1,753 

1,838 

2,361 

5,908 

6,076 

9,354 

9,223 

10,049 

12,950 

555 

530 

1,120 

1,092 

1,113 

1,621 

344 

412 

537 

489 

688 

651 

1,520 

2,094 

2,282 

2,255 

2,601 

3,351 

924 

822 

958 

1,013 

972 

1.402 

9,251 

9,934 

14,251 

14,072 

15,423 

19,975 

857 

1,124 

1,947 

1,875 

2,094 

3,253 

389 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Table  11.  Major  Trading  Partners,  1988-95 


Country  1988         1989         1990         1991  1992  1993 


Middle  East  and  North 
Africa 

Iran    660  233  492  91  365  667 

Iraq    1,441  1,650  1,047  0  1  0 

Other   740  947  2,120  2.890  2.872  2,573 

Total  Middle  East  and 

North  Africa   2,841  2,830  3,659  2,981  3,238  3,240 

Other    1,391  1.902  2.445  2.119  2.116  2.961 

TOTAL  IMPORTS   14,340  15,790  22,302  21,047  22,871  29,429 


OECD — Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development. 
2  EU — European  Union. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-opearation  and 
Development,  OECD  Economic  Surveys:  Turkey,  1995,  Paris,  1995,  99. 


Table  12.  Summary  of  Balance  of  Payments,  Selected  Years,  1985-93 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1985 

1987 

1989 

1991 

1993 

Exports  (f.o.b.)1  

8,255 

10,322 

11,780 

13,667 

15,610 

Imports  (f.o.b.)   

-11,230 

-13,551 

15,999 

21.007 

29,772 

Trade  balance  

-2,975 

-3,229 

^,219 

-7,340 

-14,162 

Services  

22 

33 

1,622 

2,499 

4,014 

Private  transfers  (net)   

1,762 

2,066 

3,135 

2,854 

3,085 

Official  transfers  (net)  

222 

324 

423 

2.245 

73 

Current  account  balance  .... 

-969 

^806 

961 

258 

-6,990 

Private  long-term  capital 

(net)   

856 

1,388 

2,456 

1,562 

6,839 

Official  long-term  capital 

(net)   

-594 

453 

-1,092 

-939 

-930 

Capital  account  balance  

262 

1.841 

1.364 

623 

5.909 

Balance  of  payments  

-707 

1,035 

2,325 

881 

1,081 

Change  in  reserves  

-361 

137 

2,471 

-1,197 

308 

f.o.b. — free  on  board. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and 
Development,  OECD  Economic  Surveys:  Turkey,  1995,  Paris,  1995,  100. 


390 


Appendix  A 


Table  13.  Major  Army  Equipment,  1994 


Type  and  Description 


Country  of  Origin 


In  Inventory 


Tanks 

Leopard   Germany  397 

M^8    United  States  3,004 

M-60    -do-  932 

Armored  vehicles 

Infantry  fighting  vehicles   Turkey/United  States  65 

Armored  personnel  carriers 

M-113   United  States  2,815 

IAPC   United  States/Turkey  125 

BTR60    Russia  300 

AWC   Turkey  345 

Self-propelled  guns  and  howitzers 

105mm:  M-52A1  and  M-108   United  States  389 

155mm:  M-44    -do-  168 

175mm:  M-107    -do-  36 

203mm:  M-55  and  M-l  10    -do-  228 

Towed  artillery 

105mm:  M-101A1  and  others    -do-  640 

150mm:  Skoda   Czechoslovakia  161 

155mm:  M-114A1  and  M-59   United  States  613 

203mm:  M-l  15    -do-  162 

Mortars 

107mm:  M-30,  some  self-propelled   -do-  1,265 

120mm:  various                                              United  States/Germany/  578 

France 

81mm:  various,  including  self-propelled  .  .  -do-  3,175 

Multiple  rocket  launchers 

227mm:  MLRS   United  States/Turkey  12 

107mm   United  States  23 

Antitank  guided  weapons 

Milan    France  392 

Cobra   Germany  186 

TOW  self-propelled   United  States  365 

Helicopters 

Cobra  AH-1W/P   -do-  38 

S-70A  Sikorsky    United  States  8 

AB-204  Agusta  Bell   Italy  14 

AB-205  Agusta  Bell   -do-  64 

AB-212  Agusta  Bell   -do-  2 

UH-1H  Iroquois   United  States  96 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1994-1995,  London,  1994,  66- 
67 


391 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Table  14.  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1994 


Type  and  Description 


Country  of  Origin 


In  Inventory 


Fighter-bombers  and  fighter-ground  attack 

F-16C/D   United  States/Turkey  138 

F-5A/B    United  States  195 

F-4E   -do-  152 

F-104G    Various  NATO  24 

Reconnaissance  (armed) 

RF-5A    United  States  20 

RF-4E   -do-  26 

Transports 

C-130E  Hercules    -do-  13 

C-160D  Transall   Germany  19 

CN-235    Spain/Turkey  52 

Helicopters 

UH-1H  Blackhawk  utility   United  States  21 

Surface-to-air  missile  launchers 

Nike-Hercules   -do-  128 

Rapier   Britain  24 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1994-1995,  London,  1994,  68. 


392 


Appendix  A 


Table  15.  Major  Naval  Equipment,  1994 

Type  and  Description  Country  of  Origin  In  Inventory 

Destroyers 

Gearing-class   United  States  8 

Carpenter-class    -do-  2 

Sumner-class    -do-  1 

Frigates 

MEKO-200  with  Sub  Harpoon 

SSM   Germany  4 

MEKO-200    Turkey  4 

(on  order) 

Berk-class   -do-  2 

Koln-class   Germany  2 

Knox-class  with  Sub  Harpoon 

SSM   United  States  8 

Submarines 

Guppy-class    -do-  7 

Type-209/1200    Germany/Turkey  6 

Type-209/1400    Turkey  2 

Tang-class   United  States  2 

Fast-attack  craft 

Dogan-class  (Lurssen  57)  with  Harpoon 

SSM   Germany/Turkey  8 

Kartal-class  (Jaguar)  with  Penguin 

SSM   Germany  8 

Yildiz-class    Turkey  2 

(on  order) 

Patrol  craft 

Coastal  and  inshore    United  States/Germany/  29 

Turkey 

Minelayers   United  States/Denmark  3 

Minesweepers   United  States/France/  26 

Canada 

Amphibious 

Landing  ships,  tank   United  States/Turkey  7 

Landing  craft,  tank   Turkey  35 

Landing  craft,  utility   -do-  2 

Landing  craft,  mechanized   -do-  22 

Naval  Aviation 

Agusta-Bell  AB-212  ASW  shipborne 

helicopters   Italy  14 

Grumman  ST-2E  Tracker  ASW 

search   United  States  14 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1994-95,  London,  1994,  704- 
22. 


393 


Appendix  B 


Selected  Political  Parties  and  Labor  Organizations 

ANAP — Anavatan  Partisi  (Motherland  Party)  .  Founded  in  May 
1983  under  the  leadership  of  Turgut  Ozal.  The  ruling 
party  following  the  1983  election,  the  center-right  ANAP 
included  mostly  former  members  of  the  pre-1980  AP 
(Adalet Partisi)  (q.v.)  . 

AP — Adalet  Partisi  (Justice  Party).  Established  in  1961,  one  of 
the  two  major  parties  prior  to  the  September  1980  coup, 
led  by  Suleyman  Demirel.  Following  its  dissolution  by  the 
National  Security  Council,  many  of  its  members  subse- 
quently joined  the  ANAP  (q.v.)  or  the  DYP  (q.v.) 

Birlik  ve  Baris  (Unity  and  Peace).  Splinter  from  RP  (q.v.)  in 
1992. 

BTP — Buyuk  Turkiye  Partisi  (Grand  Turkey  Party) .  Founded  in 
May  1983  and  banned  the  same  month  for  having  connec- 
tions with  the  dissolved  AP  (q.v.).  Its  supporters  then 
formed  the  center-right  DYP  (q.v.). 

CHP — Cumhuriyet  Halk  Partisi  (Republican  People's  Party). 
Founded  in  the  1920s  and  led  by  Ataturk  until  his  death  in 
1938.  Headed  by  Biilent  Ecevit  in  the  1970s,  it  was  one  of 
the  major  parties  prior  to  the  1980  coup.  A  majority  of  its 
deputies  ultimately  regrouped  in  the  left-of-center  SHP 
(q.v.);  others  joined  the  DSP  (q.v.).  Party  reactivated  by 
Deniz  Baykal  in  1992.  In  1995  the  SHP  dissolved  itself,  and 
many  members  joined  the  CHP. 

CNU — Committee  of  National  Unity.  Composed  of  thirty-eight 
officers  who  executed  the  May  1960  coup;  the  CNU  gov- 
erned the  country  until  a  constituent  assembly  was  formed 
in  January  1961. 

Demokratik  Partisi  (Democratic  Party) — Formed  in  1971  by 
former  AP  (q.v.)  members  who  disapproved  of  Suleyman 
Demirel's  leadership;  merged  with  the  AP  shortly  before 
the  1980  coup.  Not  a  successor  to  the  DP  (q.v.). 

DEP — Demokrasi  Partisi  (Democracy  Party).  Pro-Kurd  party 
formed  in  1993  on  demise  of  the  HEP  (q.v.),  proscribed  by 
Constitutional  Court  in  June  1994. 

Dev  Sol — Devrimci  Sol  (Revolutionary  Left  Party) .  A  radical 
movement  espousing  Marxist  ideology  and  advocating  vio- 


395 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

lent  tactics  against  state  institutions. 

DISK — Turkiye  Devrimci  Isci  Sendikalari  Konfederasyonu 
(Confederation  of  Revolutionary  Workers'  Trade  Unions 
of  Turkey).  Federation  of  trade  unions  second  in  impor- 
tance only  to  Turk-Is  (q.v.)  before  1980.  Banned  after 
1980,  DISK  was  less  influential  in  the  mid-1990s  than  some 
of  the  other  labor  organizations. 

DP — Demokrat  Partisi  (Democrat  Party).  Founded  in  1946,  the 
party  secured  power  in  the  1950  election.  It  was  over- 
thrown and  declared  illegal  by  the  armed  forces  in  1960. 
Should  not  be  confused  with  the  Demokratik  Partisi  (q.v.). 
Party  reactivated  in  1992. 

DSP — Demokratik  Sol  Partisi  (Democratic  Left  Party). 
Founded  in  November  1985  by  Rahsan  Ecevit,  wife  of 
former  CHP  {q.v.)  leader  Biilent  Ecevit,  who  had  been 
banned  from  political  activity.  The  party  advocated  a  more 
radical  variety  of  democratic  socialism  than  the  SHP  (q.v.). 

DYP — Dogru  Yol  Partisi  (True  Path  Party).  Founded  in  June 
1983  after  the  dissolution  of  the  BTP  (q.v.).  The  center- 
right  party  was  considered  to  be  the  successor  to  the 
banned  AP  (q.v.).  Former  AP  leader  Suleyman  Demirel 
was  its  leader  before  becoming  president.  Head  in  1995 
was  Prime  Minister  Tansu  (filler. 

HADEP — Halkin  Demokrasi  Partisi  (People's  Democracy 
Party).  Formed  in  June  1994  as  pro-Kurd  party. 

Hak-Is — Turkiye  Hak  Isci  Sendikalari  Konfederasyonu  (Con- 
federation of  Turkish  Just  Workers'  Unions).  Pro-Islamist 
union. 

HDP — Hur  Demokrat  Partisi  (Free  Democratic  Party).  A  short- 
lived right-wing  party  founded  in  1983  by  former  members 
of  the  MDP  (q.v.)  under  the  leadership  of  Mehmet  Yazar. 
The  HDP  was  disbanded  the  same  year. 

HEP — Halkin  Emek  Partisi  (People's  Labor  Party).  Formed  in 
late  1991  to  promote  full  equality  of  Kurds  and  Turks 
within  Turkey.  Outlawed  in  1993. 

HP — Halkci  Partisi  (Populist  Party).  Founded  in  May  1983,  it 
was  one  of  the  three  parties  allowed  to  compete  in  the 
1983  general  election.  It  merged  with  Sodep  (q.v.)  in 
November  1985  to  form  the  SHP  (q.v.). 

MQF — Milliyetci  £alisma  Partisi  (Nationalist  Labor  Party). 
Founded  in  July  1983  and  originally  named  the  Conserva- 
tive Party,  it  changed  its  name  in  November  1985  to  MQF. 
The  conservative  nationalist  party  is  considered  to  be  the 


396 


Appendix  B 


successor  to  the  MHP  (q.v.).  In  1993  the  party  reassumed 
the  name  of  the  Nationalist  Action  Party  (MHP). 

MDP — Milliyetci  Demokrasi  Partisi  (Nationalist  Democracy 
Party).  Founded  in  May  1983  under  the  leadership  of 
General  Turgut  Sunalp,  the  party  never  gained  popular 
support  and  was  dissolved  in  April  1986. 

MHP — Milliyetci  Hareket  Partisi  (Nationalist  Action  Party).  A 
militant,  nationalist  party  led  by  Alparslan  Turkes.  It  was 
associated  with  the  pre-1980  violence  and  was  banned  fol- 
lowing the  coup.  The  M^P  (q.v.)  was  considered  to  be  its 
successor  prior  to  changing  its  name  to  MHP  in  1993. 

MISK — Turkiye  Milliyetci  Isci  Sendikalari  Konfederasyonu 
(Confederation  of  Turkish  Nationalist  Workers'  Unions). 
Government-sponsored  federation  of  labor  unions. 

MSP — Milli  Selamet  Partisi  (National  Salvation  Party). 
Founded  in  1972  and  dissolved  in  1980,  this  conservative, 
religiously  oriented  party  served  in  various  government 
coalitions  prior  to  the  1980  coup.  Many  of  its  members 
subsequently  supported  the  RP  (q.v.). 

OZEP — Freedom  and  Labor  Party.  Splinter  from  SHP  (q.v.) 
formed  in  1992. 

PKK — Partiya  Karkere  Kurdistan  (Kurdistan  Workers'  Party). 
Founded  in  late  1960s.  Initiated  armed  insurrection  on 
behalf  of  an  independent  Kurdistan  in  1984;  fighting  con- 
tinued through  1995. 

RP — Refah  Partisi  (Welfare  Party;  also  seen  as  Prosperity 
Party).  A  religious  party  based  on  Islamic  principles;  suc- 
cessor to  the  MSP  (q.v.). 

SHP — Sosyal  Demokrat  Halkci  Parti  (Social  Democratic  Popu- 
list Party).  Formed  in  November  1985  by  the  merger  of 
two  left-of-center  parties,  Sodep  (q.v.)  and  the  HP  (q.v.). 
Dissolved  itself  in  mid-1995,  and  many  members  joined 
the  CHP  (q.v.). 

Sodep — Sosyal  Demokrat  Parti  (Social  Democratic  Party). 
Founded  in  July  1983,  it  had  the  support  of  the  moderate 
left  that  had  backed  the  pre-coup  CHP  (q.v.).  Merged  with 
the  HP  (q.v.)  in  1985  to  form  the  SHP  (q.v.). 

TISK — Turkiye  Isveren  Sendikalari  Konfederasyonu  (Turkish 
Confederation  of  Employers'  Associations).  A  confedera- 
tion of  employers'  associations,  concerned  primarily  with 
labor-management  relations. 

TOB — Turkiye  Odalar  Birligi  (Turkish  Trade  Association). 
Organization  that  has  represented  the  interests  of  mer- 


397 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

chants  and  industrialists  since  the  early  1950s.  In  later 
years,  it  has  been  identified  primarily  with  small  and 
medium-sized  firms. 

Turk-Is — Turkiye  Isci  Sendikalan  Konfederasyonu  (Confedera- 
tion of  Turkish  Trade  Unions).  The  largest  and  most  influ- 
ential of  the  union  federations. 

Turkish  Communist  Party — -Joined  TWP  (q.v.)  in  1987  to  form 
Turkish  United  Communist  Party. 

Turkiye  Birlesik  Komunist  Partisi  (Turkish  United  Communist 
Party).  Created  in  1987  by  merger  of  TWP  and  Turkish 
Communist  Party.  Party  was  banned  shortly  thereafter, 
decriminalized  in  1991,  and  then  again  proscribed. 

TUSIAD — Turk  Sanayicileri  ve  Is  Adamlari  Dernegi  (Turkish 
Industrialists'  and  Businessmen's  Association).  Organiza- 
tion that  represents  the  interests  of  big  business. 

TWP — Turkish  Workers'  Party.  Joined  with  Turkish  Communist 
Party  in  1987  to  form  the  Turkiye  Birlesik  Komunist  Partisi 
(q.u). 

VAP — Vatandas  Partisi  (Citizens'  Party).  Founded  in  March 
1986  under  the  leadership  of  former  ANAP  (q.v.)  member 
Vural  Arikan.  A  small  center-right  party,  its  two  parliamen- 
tary deputies  joined  the  DYP  (q.v.)  in  December  1986. 


398 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Ahmad,  Feroz.  The  Making  of  Modern  Turkey.  New  York:  Rout- 
ledge,  1993. 

Ahmad,  Feroz.  The  Turkish  Experiment  in  Democracy,  1950-1975. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1977. 

Ahmad,  Feroz.  The  Young  Turks:  The  Committee  of  Union  and 
Progress  in  Turkish  Politics,  1908-1911.  London:  Oxford  Uni- 
versity Press,  1972. 

Alderson,  Anthony  D.  The  Structure  of  the  Ottoman  Dynasty.  West- 
port,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1982. 

Anderson,  Perry.  Lineages  of  the  Absolutist  State.  London:  New 
Left  Books,  1974. 

Arfa,  Hassan.  The  Kurds:  An  Historical  and  Political  Study.  Lon- 
don: Oxford  University  Press,  1966. 

Armstrong,  Harold  C.  Gray  Wolf:  The  Life  of  Kemal  Ataturk.  (Epi- 
logue by  Emil  Lengyel.)  New  York:  Capricorn,  1969. 

Atil,  Esin.  The  Age  of  Sultan  Suleyman  the  Magnificent.  New  York: 
Abrams,  1987. 

Babinger,  Franz.  Mehmed  the  Conqueror  and  His  Time.  (Bollingen 
Series,  No.  96.)  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1977. 

Barchard,  David.  Turkey  and  the  West.  (Chatham  House  Papers, 
No.  27,  published  for  the  Royal  Institute  of  International 
Affairs.)  London:  Routledge  and  Kegan  Paul,  1985. 

Batu,  Hamit,  and  Jean-Louis  Bacque-Grammont,  eds.  L' Empire 
Ottoman,  la  republique  de  Turquie  et  la  France.  Istanbul:  Isis, 
1986. 

Berber oglu,  Berch.  Turkey  in  Crisis:  From  State  Capitalism  to  Neo- 
colonialism. London:  Zed  Press,  1982. 

Bianchi,  Robert.  Interest  Groups  and  Political  Development  in  Tur- 
key. Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1984. 

Bodurgil,  Abraham.  Turkey:  Politics  and  Government,  A  Bibliogra- 
phy, 1938-1975.  Washington:  Library  of  Congress,  1978. 

Bodurgil,  Abraham,  comp.  Kemal  Ataturk:  A  Centennial  Bibliogra- 
phy (1881-1981).  Washington:  Library  of  Congress,  1984. 


399 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Bolukbasi,  Suha.  The  Superpowers  and  the  Third  World:  Turkish- 
American  Relations  and  Cyprus.  Lanham,  Maryland:  University 
Press  of  America,  1988. 

Bournoutian,  George  A.  A  History  of  the  Armenian  People,  1. 
Costa  Mesa,  California:  Mazda,  1993. 

Braude,  Benjamin,  and  Bernard  Lewis,  eds.  Christians  and  Jews 
in  the  Ottoman  Empire:  The  Functioning  of  a  Plural  Society.  (2 
vols.)  New  York:  Holmes  and  Meier,  1982. 

Bridge,  Antony.  Suleiman  the  Magnificent:  Scourge  of  Heaven.  Lon- 
don: Granada,  1983. 

Brummett,  Palmira.  Ottoman  Seapower  and  Levantine  Diplomacy 
in  the  Age  of  Discovery.  Albany:  State  University  of  New  York 
Press,  1994. 

Burton,  J.A.  "Relations  Between  the  Khanate  of  Bukhara  and 
Ottoman  Turkey,  1558-1 702, "  International  Journal  of  Turkish 
Studies,  5,  1990-91,  83-103. 

Cahen,  Claude.  Pre-Ottoman  Turkey.  New  York:  Taplinger,  1968. 

Campany,  Richard  C,  Jr.  Turkey  and  the  United  States:  The  Arms 
Embargo  Period.  New  York:  Praeger,  1986. 

Cemal,  Pasa.  Memories  of  a  Turkish  Statesman,  1913-1919.  New 
York:  Arno  Press,  1973. 

Qicek,  Kemal.  "Living  Together:  Muslim-Christian  Relations  in 
18th-Century  Cyprus  as  Reflected  by  the  Shari'a  Court 
Record,"  Islam  and  Christian-Muslim  Relations  [Birmingham, 
United  Kingdom],  4,  No.  1,  1993. 

Cook,  M.A.,  ed.  A  History  of  the  Ottoman  Empire  to  1730.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1980. 

Davison,  Roderic  H.  Reform  in  the  Ottoman  Empire,  1856-1876. 
Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1963. 

Davison,  Roderic  H.  Turkey:  A  Short  History.  (2d  ed.)  Hunting- 
don, United  Kingdom:  Eothen  Press,  1988. 

DeLuca,  Anthony  R.  The  Great  Power  Rivalry  at  the  Turkish  Straits: 
The  Montreux  Conference  and  the  Convention  of  1936.  (East 
European  Monographs.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 
1981. 

Devereux,  Robert.  The  First  Ottoman  Constitutional  Period.  Balti- 
more: Johns  Hopkins  Press,  1963. 

Dodd,  Clement  H.,  ed.  The  Political,  Social,  and  Economic  Develop- 
ment of  Northern  Cyprus.  Huntingdon,  United  Kingdom: 
Eothen  Press,  1993. 


400 


Bibliography 


Dodd,  Clement  H.,  ed.  Turkish  Foreign  Policy:  New  Prospects. 

Huntingdon,  United  Kingdom:  Eothen  Press,  1992. 
Ertekiin,  Necati  M.  The  Cyprus  Dispute  and  the  Birth  of  the  Turkish 

Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus.  Nicosia,  Northern  Cyprus: 

Rustem,  1984. 

Evin,  Ahmet,  ed.  Modern  Turkey:  Continuity  and  Change. 

(Schriften  des  Deutschen  Orient-Instituts.)  Oplanden,  West 

Germany:  Leske  and  Budrich,  1984. 
Farah,  Caesar  E.,  ed.  Decision  Making  and  Change  in  the  Ottoman 

Empire.  Kirksville,  Missouri:  Thomas  Jefferson  University 

Press,  1993. 

Faroqhi,  Suraiya.  Men  of  Modest  Substance:  House  Owners  and 

House  Property  in  17th-Century  Ankara  and  Kayseri.  Cambridge: 

Cambridge  University  Press,  1987. 
Findley,  Carter  V.  Bureaucratic  Reform  in  the  Ottoman  Empire:  The 

Sublime  Porte,  1789-1922.  Princeton:  Princeton  University 

Press,  1980. 

Findley,  Carter  V.  Ottoman  Civil  Officialdom:  A  Social  History. 

Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1989. 
Finkel,  Andrew,  and  Nukhet  Sirman,  eds.  Turkish  State,  Turkish 

Society.  New  York:  Routledge,  1990. 
Frangakis-Syrett,  Elena.  The  Commerce  of  Smyrna  in  the  Eighteenth 

Century,  1700-1820.  Athens:  Center  for  Asia  Minor  Studies, 

1992. 

Frazee,  Charles  A.  Catholics  and  Sultans:  The  Church  and  the  Otto- 
man Empire,  1453-1923.  New  York:  Cambridge  University 
Press,  1983. 

Frey,  Frederick  W.  The  Turkish  Political  Elite.  Cambridge,  Massa- 
chusetts: M.I.T.  Press,  1965. 

Geyikdagi,  Mehmett  Yasar.  Political  Parties  in  Turkey:  The  Role  of 
Islam.  New  York:  Praeger,  1984. 

Gocek,  Fatma  Muge.  East  Encounters  West:  France  and  the  Ottoman 
Empire  in  the  18th  Century.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press, 
1987. 

Goffman,  Daniel.  Izmir  and  the  Levantine  World,  1550-1650. 

Seattle:  University  of  Washington  Press,  1990. 
Gokalp,  Ziya.  The  Principles  ofTurkism.  Trans.,  Robert  Devereux. 

Leiden,  Netherlands:  E.J.  Brill,  1968. 
Gunter,  Michael  M.  The  Kurds  in  Turkey:  A  Political  Dilemma. 

Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1990. 


401 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Gunter,  Michael  M.  "Pursuing  the  Just  Cause  of  Their  People" :  A 
Study  of  Contemporary  Armenian  Terrorism.  New  York:  Green- 
wood Press,  1986. 

Hale,  William  M.  The  Political  and  Economic  Development  of  Mod- 
ern Turkey.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1981. 

Halley,  Laurence.  Ancient  Affections:  Ethnic  Groups  and  Foreign 
Policy.  New  York:  Praeger,  1985. 

Harris,  George  S.  Turkey:  Coping  with  Crisis.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Westview  Press,  1985. 

Hart,  Parker  T.  Two  NATO  Allies  at  the  Threshold  of  War — Cyprus: 
A  Firsthand  Account  of  Crisis  Management,  1965-1968. 
Durham,  North  Carolina:  Duke  University  Press,  1990. 

Heper,  Metin.  "Islam,  Polity,  and  Society  in  Turkey:  A  Middle 
Eastern  Perspective,"  Middle  East  Journal,  35,  No.  3,  Summer 
1981,  345-63. 

Heper,  Metin.  The  State  Tradition  in  Turkey.  Huntingdon,  United 
Kingdom:  Eothen  Press,  1985. 

Heper,  Metin,  and  Ahmet  Evin,  eds.  State,  Democracy,  and  the 
Military:  Turkey  in  the  1980s.  New  York:  de  Gruyter,  1988. 

Heper,  Metin,  and  Jacob  M.  Landau,  eds.  Political  Parties  and 
Democracy  in  Turkey.  New  York:  Tauris,  1991. 

Heyd,  Uriel.  Foundations  of  Turkish  Nationalism:  The  Life  and 
Teachings  ofZiya  Gdkalp.  London:  Luzac,  1950. 

Heyd,  Uriel.  "The  Later  Ottoman  Empire  in  Rumelia  and  Ana- 
tolia." Pages  354-73  in  P.M.  Holt,  Ann  K.S.  Lambton,  and 
Bernard  Lewis,  eds.,  The  Cambridge  History  of  Islam,  1.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1970. 

Holt,  P.M.  "The  Later  Ottoman  Empire  in  Egypt  and  the  Fertile 
Crescent."  Pages  274-92  in  P.M.  Holt,  Ann  K.S.  Lambton, 
and  Bernard  Lewis,  eds.,  The  Cambridge  History  of  Islam,  1. 
Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1970. 

Howard,  Harry  N.  The  Partition  of  Turkey:  A  Diplomatic  History, 
1913-1923.  New  York:  Ferig,  1966. 

Inalcik,  Halil.  "The  Emergence  of  the  Ottomans."  Pages  263- 
73  in  P.M.  Holt,  Ann  K.S.  Lambton,  and  Bernard  Lewis,  eds., 
The  Cambridge  History  of  Islam,  1.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  Uni- 
versity Press,  1970. 

Inalcik,  Halil.  "The  Heyday  and  Decline  of  the  Ottoman 
Empire."  Pages  324-53  in  P.M.  Holt,  Ann  K.S.  Lambton,  and 


402 


Bibliography 


Bernard  Lewis,  eds.,  The  Cambridge  History  of  Islam,  1.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1970. 

Inalcik,  Halil.  The  Ottoman  Empire:  The  Classical  Age,  1300-1600. 
London:  Weidenfeld  and  Nicolson,  1973. 

Inalcik,  Halil.  The  Ottoman  Empire:  Conquest,  Organization,  and 
Economy.  London:  Variorum,  1978. 

Inalcik,  Halil.  "The  Rise  of  the  Ottoman  Empire."  Pages  293- 
323  in  P.M.  Holt,  Ann  K.S.  Lambton,  and  Bernard  Lewis, 
eds.,  The  Cambridge  History  of  Islam,  1.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1970. 

Islamoglu-Inan,  Huri,  ed.  The  Ottoman  Empire  and  the  World 
Economy.  New  York:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1987. 

Issawi,  Charles.  The  Economic  History  of  Turkey,  1800-1914.  Chi- 
cago: University  of  Chicago  Press,  1981. 

Itzkowitz,  Norman.  Ottoman  Empire  and  Islamic  Tradition.  Chi- 
cago: University  of  Chicago  Press,  1980. 

Jennings,  Ronald  C.  Christians  and  Muslims  in  Ottoman  Cyprus 
and  the  Mediterranean  World,  1571-1640.  New  York:  New  York 
University  Press,  1993. 

Karpat,  Kemal  H.  "The  Memoirs  of  N.  Batzaria:  The  Young 
Turks  and  Nationalism,"  International  Journal  of  Middle  East 
Studies,  6,  No.  3,  July  1975,  276-99. 

Karpat,  Kemal  H.  "The  Military  and  Politics  in  Turkey,  1960- 
64:  A  Socio-Cultural  Analysis  of  a  Revolution,"  American  His- 
torical Review,  lb,  No.  6,  October  1970,  1654-83. 

Karpat,  Kemal  H.  "Modern  Turkey."  Pages  527-65  in  P.M.  Holt, 
Ann  K.S.  Lambton,  and  Bernard  Lewis,  eds.,  The  Cambridge 
History  of  Islam,  1.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1970. 

Karpat,  Kemal  H.  "Political  Developments  in  Turkey,  1950-70," 
Middle  Eastern  Studies  [London],  8,  No.  3,  October  1972, 
349-75. 

Karpat,  Kemal  H.  "The  Transformation  of  the  Ottoman  State, 

1789-1908,"  International  Journal  of  Middle  East  Studies,  3,  No. 

3,  July  1972,  243-81. 
Karpat,  Kemal  H.  Turkey's  Politics:  The  Transition  to  a  Multi-Party 

System.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1959. 
Karpat,  Kemal  H.  "Turkish  Democracy  at  Impasse:  Ideology, 

Party  Politics,  and  the  Third  Military  Intervention,"  Interna- 


ls 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


tional Journal  of  Turkish  Studies,  2,  No.  1,  Spring-Summer 
1981,  1-43. 

Karpat,  Kemal  H.,  ed.  Political  and  Social  Thought  in  the  Contem- 
porary Middle  East.  New  York:  Praeger,  1968. 

Kasaba,  Resat.  "Izmir,"  Review,  16,  No.  4,  1993,  387-410. 

Kasaba,  Resat.  The  Ottoman  Empire  and  the  World  Economy:  The 
19th  Century.  Albany:  State  University  of  New  York  Press, 
1988. 

Kazancigil,  Ali,  and  Ergun  Ozbudun,  eds.  Ataturk:  Founder  of  a 
Modern  State.  London:  Hurst,  1981. 

Keyder,  Qaglar.  "Port  Cities  in  the  Ottoman  Empire:  Some  The- 
oretical and  Historical  Perspectives,"  Reviexv,  16,  No.  4,  1993, 
519-58. 

Kinross,  Patrick  Balfour.  Ataturk:  A  Biography  of  Mustafa  Kemal, 

Father  of  Modern  Turkey.  New  York:  Morrow,  1965. 
Kinross,  Patrick  Balfour.  The  Ottoman  Centuries:  The  Rise  and  Fall 

of  the  Turkish  Empire.  New  York:  Morrow,  1977. 
"Kurdistan  in  Turkey."  Pages  38-94  in  Gerard  Chaliand,  ed.,  A 

People  Without  a  Country:  The  Kurds  and  Kurdistan.  London: 

Zed  Books,  1993. 
Landau,  Jacob  M.  "The  Nationalist  Action  Party  in  Turkey," 

Journal  of  Contemporary  History  [London],  17,  No.  4,  October 

1982,587-606. 

Landau,  Jacob  M.  Pan-Turkism  in  Turkey:  A  Study  of  Irredentism. 

Ham  den,  Connecticut:  Archon  Books,  1981. 
Landau,  Jacob  M.,  ed.  Ataturk  and  the  Modernization  of  Turkey. 

Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1984. 
Levy,  Aviador.  The  Sephardim  in  the  Ottoman  Empire.  Princeton: 

Darwin  Press  and  Washington:  Institute  of  Turkish  Studies, 

1992. 

Lewis,  Bernard.  The  Emergence  of  Modern  Turkey.  (2d  ed.)  New 
York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1968. 

Lewis,  Bernard.  Studies  in  Classical  and  Ottoman  Islam:  7th- 16th 
Centuries.  London:  Variorum,  1976. 

Lewis,  Geoffrey.  Modern  Turkey.  New  York:  Praeger,  1974. 

Lewis,  Raphaela.  Everyday  Life  in  Ottoman  Turkey.  New  York:  Put- 
nam, 1971. 

Lindner,  Rudi  Paul.  Nomads  and  Ottomans  in  Medieval  Anatolia. 
(Research  Institute  for  Inner  Asian  Studies.)  Bloomington: 
Indiana  University  Press,  1983. 


404 


Bibliography 


Lloyd,  Seton.  Early  Turkey:  A  Traveller' s  History  of  Anatolia.  Berke- 
ley: University  of  California  Press,  1989. 

Macfie,  A.L.  "The  Straits  Question  in  the  First  World  War, 
1914-18,"  Middle  Eastern  Studies  [London],  19,  No.  ^Janu- 
ary 1983,  43-74. 

Mackenzie,  Kenneth.  Turkey  under  the  Generals.  (Conflict  Stud- 
ies, No.  126.)  London:  Institute  for  the  Study  of  Conflict, 
1981. 

Mango,  Andrew.  Turkey:  The  Challenge  of  a  New  Role.  Washing- 
ton: Center  for  Strategic  and  International  Studies,  1994. 

Marcus,  Aliza.  "Turkey's  Kurds  after  the  Gulf  War:  A  Report 
from  the  Southeast."  Pages  238-47  in  Gerard  Chaliand,  ed., 
A  People  Without  a  Country:  The  Kurds  and  Kurdistan.  London: 
Zed  Books,  1993. 

Mardin,  Serif  A.  The  Genesis  of  Young  Ottoman  Thought.  Prince- 
ton: Princeton  University  Press,  1962. 

Mellaart,  James.  "Anatolia  and  the  Indo-Europeans,"  Journal  of 
Indo-European  Studies,  9,  Spring-Summer  1981,  135-49. 

Mellaart,  James.  Ancient  Turkey.  Totowa,  New  Jersey:  Rowman 
and  Littlefield,  1978. 

Nawawi,  Mohammad  A.  "The  Political-Economic  Ideas  and 
Achievements  of  the  Kemalist  Revolution:  A  Tentative  Evalu- 
ation," International  Journal  of  Turkish  Studies,  2,  No.  2,  Winter 
1981-82,  1-14. 

Olson,  Robert.  The  Emergence  of  Kurdish  Nationalism  and  the 
Sheikh  Said  Rebellion,  1880-1925.  Austin:  University  of  Texas 
Press,  1989. 

Ostrogorsky,  George.  History  of  the  Byzantine  State.  (Rev.  ed.) 
New  Brunswick,  New  Jersey:  Rutgers  University  Press,  1969. 

Ozay,  Mehmet.  "Turkey  in  Crisis:  Some  Contradictions  in  the 
Kemalist  Development  Strategy,"  International  Journal  of  Mid- 
dle East  Studies,  15,  No.  1,  February  1983,  47-66. 

Ozbudun,  Ergun.  The  Role  of  the  Military  in  Recent  Turkish  Poli- 
tics. (Occasional  Papers  in  International  Affairs,  No.  14.) 
Cambridge:  Center  for  International  Affairs,  Harvard  Uni- 
versity, 1966. 

Par  la,  Taha.  The  Social  and  Political  Thought  of  Ziya  Gbkalp,  1876- 

1924.  Leiden,  Netherlands:  EJ.  Brill,  1985. 
Pitcher,  Donald  E.  An  Historical  Geography  of  the  Ottoman  Empire. 

Leiden,  Netherlands:  E.J.  Brill,  1972. 


405 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

Quataert,  Donald.  Ottoman  Manufacturing  in  the  Age  of  the  Indus- 
trial Revolution.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1993. 

Ramazanoglu,  Huseyin.  Turkey  in  the  World  Capitalist  System:  A 
Study  of  Industrialization,  Power,  and  Class.  Brookfield,  Ver- 
mont: Gower,  1985. 

Robins,  Philip.  Turkey  and  the  Middle  East.  New  York:  Council  on 
Foreign  Relations  Press,  1991. 

Runciman,  Steven.  Byzantine  Style  and  Civilization.  Baltimore: 
Penguin,  1975. 

Runciman,  Steven.  The  Great  Church  in  Captivity:  A  Study  of  the 
Patriarchate  of  Constantinople  from  the  Eve  of  the  Turkish  Conquest 
to  the  Greek  War  of  Independence.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  Uni- 
versity Press,  1968. 

Runciman,  Steven.  A  History  of  the  Crusades.  (3  vols.)  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1951-54. 

Rustow,  Dankwart  A.  Turkey:  America's  Forgotten  Ally.  New  York: 
Council  on  Foreign  Relations  Press,  1987. 

Schick,  Irvin  Cemal,  and  Ertugrul  Ahmed  Tonak,  eds.  Turkey  in 
Transition:  New  Perspectives.  New  York:  Oxford  University 
Press,  1987. 

Shaw,  Stanford  J.  The  Jews  of  the  Ottoman  Empire  and  Turkish 
Empire.  New  York:  New  York  University  Press,  1991. 

Shaw,  Stanford  J.,  and  Ezel  Kural  Shaw.  History  of  the  Ottoman 
Empire  and  Modern  Turkey.  (2  vols.)  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1976. 

Singer,  Morris.  "Atatiirk's  Economic  Legacy,"  Middle  Eastern 
Studies  [London],  19,  No.  3,  July  1983,  301-11. 

Sousa,  Nasim.  The  Capitulatory  Regime  of  Turkey:  Its  History,  Ori- 
gin, and  Nature.  Baltimore:  Johns  Hopkins  Press,  1957. 

Swanson,  Glen  W.  "Enver  Pasha:  The  Formative  Years,"  Middle 
Eastern  Studies  [London],  16,  No.  4,  October  1980,  193-99. 

Szyliowicz,  Joseph  S.  "The  Ottoman  Empire."  Pages  102-21  in 
C.A.O.  van  Nieuwenhuijze,  ed.,  Commoners,  Climbers,  and 
Notables:  A  Sampler  of  Studies  on  Social  Ranking  in  the  Middle 
East.  Leiden,  Netherlands:  E.J.  Brill,  1977. 

Tachau,  Frank.  Turkey:  The  Politics  of  Authority,  Democracy,  and 
Development.  New  York:  Praeger,  1984. 


406 


Bibliography 


Tachau,  Frank,  and  Metin  Heper.  "The  State,  Politics,  and  the 
Military  in  Turkey,"  Comparative  Politics,  16,  No.  1,  October 
1983,  17-33. 

Tapper,  Richard,  ed.  Islam  in  Modern  Turkey:  Religion,  Politics, 
and  Literature  in  a  Secular  State.  London:  Tauris,  1991. 

Turan,  Osman.  "Anatolia  in  the  Period  of  the  Seljuks  and  the 
Beyliks."  Pages  231-62  in  P.M.  Holt,  Ann  K.S.  Lambton,  and 
Bernard  Lewis,  eds.,  The  Cambridge  History  of  Islam,  1.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1970. 

Van  Bruinessen,  Martin.  Agha,  Shaikh,  and  State:  The  Social  and 
Political  Structures  of  Kurdistan.  Atlantic  Highlands,  New  Jer- 
sey: Zed  Books,  1992. 

Volkan,  Vamik  D.,  and  Norman  Itzkowitz.  The  Immortal  Atatiirk: 
A  Psycho  biography.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1984. 

Webster,  Donald  Everett.  The  Turkey  of  Atatiirk:  Social  Process  in 
the  Turkish  Reformation.  Philadelphia:  American  Academy  of 
Political  and  Social  Science,  1939. 

Weiker,  Walter  F.  The  Modernization  of  Turkey:  From  Atatiirk  to  the 
Present  Day.  New  York:  Holmes  and  Meier,  1981. 

Weiker,  Walter  F.  The  Turkish  Revolution,  1960-61:  Aspects  of  Mili- 
tary Politics.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1980. 

Zurcher,  Erik  J.  Turkey:  A  Modern  History.  New  York:  Tauris, 
1994. 

Chapter  2 

Abadan-Unat,  Nermin.  Women  in  the  Developing  World:  Evidence 
from  Turkey.  Denver:  University  of  Denver  Press,  1986. 

Ahmad,  Feroz.  The  Making  of  Modern  Turkey.  New  York:  Rout- 
ledge,  1993. 

Akin,  Erkan,  and  Omer  Karasapan.  "Turkey's  Tarikats,"  Middle 
East  Report,  No.  153,  July-August  1988,  16-18. 

Akin,  Erkan,  and  Omer  Karasapan.  "The  'Turkish-Islamic  Syn- 
thesis'," Middle  East  Report,  No.  153,  July-August  1988,  12-15, 
50. 

Aksit,  Bahattin.  "Islamic  Education  in  Turkey:  Medrese  Reform 
in  Late  Ottoman  Times  and  Imam-Hatip  Schools  in  the 
Republic."  Pages  145-70  in  Richard  Tapper,  ed.,  Islam  in 
Modern  Turkey:  Religion,  Politics,  and  Literature  in  a  Secular 
State.  London:  Tauris,  1991. 


407 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Arat,  Yesim.  "Islamic  Fundamentalism  and  Women  in  Turkey," 

Muslim  World,  80,  No.  1,  1990,  17-23. 
Arat,  Yesim.  The  Patriarchal  Paradox:  Women  Politicians  in  Turkey. 
Rutherford,  New  Jersey:  Fairleigh  Dickinson  University  Press, 

1989. 

Balim,  Qigdem,  Ersin  Kalaycioglu,  Cevat  Karatas,  Gareth  Win- 
row,  and  Feroz  Yasamee,  eds.  Turkey:  Political,  Social,  and  Eco- 
nomic Challenges  in  the  1990s.  New  York:  E.J.  Brill,  1995. 

Berik,  Gunseli.  "State  Policy  in  the  1980s  and  the  Future  of 
Women's  Rights  in  Turkey,"  New  Perspectives  on  Turkey,  No.  4, 
1990,  81-96. 

Berik,  Gunseli.  Women  Carpet  Weavers  in  Rural  Turkey:  Patterns  of 
Employment,  Earnings,  and  Status.  Geneva:  International 
Labour  Organisation,  1987. 

Bozarslan,  Hamit.  "Political  Aspects  of  the  Kurdish  Problem  in 
Contemporary  Turkey."  Pages  98-113  in  Philip  G.  Kreyen- 
broek  and  Stefan  Sperl,  eds.,  The  Kurds:  A  Contemporary  Over- 
view. London:  Routledge,  1992. 

Cagli,  U.,  and  L.  Durukan.  "Sex  Role  Portrayals  in  Turkish  TV 
Advertising:  Some  Preliminary  Findings,"  Middle  East  Techni- 
cal University  Studies  in  Development  [Ankara],  16,  Nos.  1-2, 
1989,  153-75. 

Cragg,  Kenneth.  The  Call  of  the  Minaret.  Oxford:  Oxford  Univer- 
sity Press,  1964. 

Delaney,  Carol.  The  Seed  and  the  Soil:  Gender  and  Cosmology  in 
Turkish  Village  Society.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press, 
1991. 

The  Darling  Kindersley  World  Reference  Atlas.  New  York:  Dor  ling 
Kindersley,  1994. 

Eralp,  Atila,  Muharrem  Tunay,  and  Birol  Yesilda.  The  Political 
and  Socioeconomic  Transformation  of  Turkey.  Westport,  Connect- 
icut: Praeger,  1993. 

Gulalp,  Haldun.  "Islam  and  Postmodernism,"  Contention,  4,  No. 
2,  Winter  1995,  59-70. 

Gulalp,  Haldun.  "A  Postmodern  Reaction  to  Dependent  Mod- 
ernization: The  Social  and  Historical  Roots  of  Islamic  Radi- 
calism," New  Perspectives  on  Turkey,  No.  8,  Fall  1992,  15-26. 

Gursoy-Tezcan,  Akile.  "Mosque  or  Health  Centre?  A  Dispute  in 
a  Gecekondu."  Pages  84—101  in  Richard  Tapper,  ed.,  Islam  in 


408 


Bibliography 


Modern  Turkey:  Religion,  Politics,  and  Literature  in  a  Secular 

State.  London:  Tauris,  1991. 
Hassanpour,  Amir.  "The  Kurdish  Experience,"  Middle  East 

Report,  No.  189,  July-August  1994,  2-7,  23. 
Held,  Colbert.  Middle  East  Patterns,  Places,  Peoples,  and  Politics. 

Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1989. 
Kadioglu,  Ayse.  "Women's  Subordination  in  Turkey:  Is  Islam 

Really  the  Villain?"  Middle  East  Journal,  48,  No.  4,  1994,  645- 

60. 

Kagitcibasi,  Cigdem,  ed.  Sex  Roles,  Family,  and  Community  in  Tur- 
key. Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Turkish  Studies,  1982. 

Kandiyoti,  Deniz.  "Sex  Roles  and  Social  Change:  A  Compara- 
tive Appraisal  of  Turkey's  Women,"  Signs:  A  Journal  of  Women 
in  Culture  and  Society,  3,  No.  1,  1977,  57-73. 

Kieser,  Hans-Lukas.  Les  Kurdes  alevis  face  au  nationalisme  turc 
kemaliste:  L'alevite  du  Dersim  et  son  role  dans  le  premier  souleve- 
ment  kurde  contre  Mustafa  Kemal,  Kockiri,  1919-1921.  (Occa- 
sional Paper  No.  18.)  Amsterdam:  Middle  East  Research 
Associates,  1993. 

Kreyenbroek,  Philip  G.  "On  the  Kurdish  Language."  Pages  68- 
83  in  Philip  G.  Kreyenbroek  and  Stefan  Sperl,  eds.,  The 
Kurds:  A  Contemporary  Overview.  London:  Routledge,  1992. 

Kutschera,  Chris.  "Mad  Dreams  of  Independence:  The  Kurds 
of  Turkey  and  the  PKK,"  Middle  East  Report,  No.  189,  July- 
August  1994,  12-15. 

Marcus,  Aliza.  "City  in  the  War  Zone,"  Middle  East  Report,  No. 
189,  July-August  1994,  16-19. 

Mardin,  Serif  A.  "Religion  in  Modern  Turkey,"  International 
Social  Science  Journal,  29,  No.  2,  1977,  279-97. 

Meeker,  Michael.  "The  New  Muslim  Intellectuals  in  the  Repub- 
lic of  Turkey."  Pages  189-222  in  Richard  Tapper,  ed.,  Islam  in 
Modern  Turkey:  Religion,  Politics,  and  Literature  in  a  Secular 
State.  London:  Tauris,  1991. 

Migdalovitz,  Carol.  "Turkey:  Ally  in  a  Troubled  Region." 
(Library  of  Congress,  Congressional  Research  Service,  93- 
835F.)  Washington:  September  14,  1993. 

Momen,  Moojan.  An  Introduction  to  Shi'i  Islam:  The  History  and 
Doctrines  of  Twelver  Shi' ism.  New  Haven:  Yale  University  Press, 
1985. 


409 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Pamuk,  Sevket.  "War,  State  Economic  Policies,  and  Resistance 
by  Agricultural  Producers  in  Turkey,  1939-1945."  Pages  125- 
42  in  Farhad  Kazemi  and  John  Waterbury,  eds.,  Peasants  and 
Politics  in  the  Modern  Middle  East.  Miami:  Florida  Interna- 
tional University  Press,  1991. 

Ramazanoglu,  Huseyin.  Turkey  in  the  World  Capitalist  System:  A 
Study  of  Industrialization,  Power,  and  Class.  Brookfield,  Ver- 
mont: Gower,  1985. 

Renda,  Gunsel,  and  C.  Max  Kortepeter,  eds.,  The  Transformation 
of  Turkish  Culture:  The  Ataturk  Legacy.  Princeton:  Kingston 
Press,  1986. 

Stokes,  Martin.  "Music,  Fate,  and  State:  Turkey's  Arabesque 
Debate,"  Middle  East  Report,  No.  160,  September-October 
1989,  27-30. 

Tapper,  Richard,  ed.  Islam  in  Modern  Turkey:  Religion,  Politics, 
and  Literature  in  a  Secular  State.  London:  Tauris,  1991. 

"Turkey."  Pages  907-25  in  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  1995. 
London:  Europa,  1994. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human 
Rights  Practices  for  1994.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States 
Congress,  104th,  1st  Session,  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign 
Relations,  and  House  of  Representatives,  Committee  on  For- 
eign Affairs.)  Washington:  GPO,  1995. 

Van  Bruinessen,  Martin.  Agha,  Shaikh,  and  State:  The  Social  and 
Political  Structure  of  Kurdistan.  Atlantic  Highlands,  New  Jersey: 
Zed  Books,  1992. 

Van  Bruinessen,  Martin.  "Kurdish  Society,  Ethnicity,  National- 
ism, and  Refugee  Problems."  Pages  35-65  in  Philip  Kreyen- 
broek  and  Stefan  Sperl,  eds.,  The  Kurds:  A  Contemporary 
Overview.  London:  Routledge,  1992. 

Van  Bruinessen,  Martin.  "The  Kurds  Between  Iran  and  Iraq," 
Middle  East  Report,  No.  141,  July-August  1986. 

Watt,  W.  Montgomery.  Islamic  Political  Thought:  Basic  Concepts. 
Edinburgh:  Edinburgh  University  Press,  1968. 

Watt,  W.  Montgomery.  Muhammad:  Prophet  and  Statesman. 
Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press,  1961. 

White,  Jenny  B.  "Linking  the  Urban  Poor  to  the  World  Market: 
Women  and  Work  in  Istanbul,"  Middle  East  Report,  No.  173, 
November-December  1991,  18-22. 


410 


Bibliography 


White,  Jenny  B.  Money  Makes  Us  Relatives:  Women's  Labor  in 
Urban  Turkey.  Austin:  University  of  Texas  Press,  1994. 

Yalcin-Hekmann,  Lale.  "Ethnic  Islam  and  Nationalism  Among 
the  Kurds  in  Turkey."  Pages  102-20  in  Richard  Tapper,  ed., 
Islam  in  Modern  Turkey:  Religion,  Politics,  and  Literature  in  a  Sec- 
ular State.  London:  Tauris,  1991. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  also  were  used 
in  the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Christian  Science  Monitor, 
Economist  [London];  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service, 
Daily  Report:  Europe;  Middle  East  Economic  Digest  [London] ;  Mid- 
dle East  Insight;  Middle  East  International  [London];  The  Middle 
East;  New  York  Times;  and  Washington  Post, ) 

Chapter  3 

Abac,  Selcuk,  et  al.  Turkey's  Banks  and  Banking  System.  London: 
Euromoney,  1986. 

Alireza,  Bulent,  and  Nathaniel  Kern.  "Turkey:  The  New  Player 
in  the  World  of  Oil,"  Petroleum  Politics,  5,  No.  2,  1994. 

Aresvik,  Oddvar.  The  Agricultural  Development  of  Turkey.  (Praeger 
Special  Studies  in  International  Economics  and  Develop- 
ment.) New  York:  Praeger,  1975. 

Aricanli,  Ali  Tousun,  and  Dani  Rodrik,  eds.  The  Political  Economy 
of  Turkey:  Debt,  Adjustment,  and  Sustainability.  New  York:  Mac- 
millan,  1990. 

Arslan,  Ismail,  and  Sweder  van  Wijnbergen.  "Export  Incentives, 
Exchange  Rate  Policy,  and  Export  Growth  in  Turkey,"  Review 
of  Economics  and  Statistics,  75,  No.  1,  February  1993,  128-33. 

Balassa,  Bela.  "Outward  Orientation  and  Exchange  Rate  Policy 
in  Developing  Countries:  The  Turkish  Experience."  Pages 
208-35  in  Bela  Balassa,  ed.,  Change  and  Challenge  in  the  World 
Economy.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1985. 

Balim,  (Jigdem,  Ersin  Kalaycioglu,  Cevat  Karatas,  Gareth  Win- 
row,  and  Feroz  Yasamee,  eds.  Turkey:  Political,  Social,  and  Eco- 
nomic Challenges  in  the  1990s.  New  York:  E.J.  Brill,  1995. 

Bar  chard,  David.  Turkey  and  the  West.  (Chatham  House  Papers, 
No.  27,  published  for  the  Royal  Institute  of  International 
Affairs.)  London:  Routledge  and  Kegan  Paul,  1985. 

Baysan,  Tercan.  "Some  Economic  Aspects  of  Turkey's  Acces- 
sion to  the  EC:  Resource  Shifts,  Comparative  Advantage,  and 


411 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Static  Gains ,"  Journal  of Common  Market  Studies  [Oxford],  23, 
September  1984,  15-34. 

Beeley,  Brian  W.  "Progress  in  Turkish  Agriculture."  Pages  289- 
301  in  Peter  Beaumont  and  Keith  McLachlan,  eds.,  Agricul- 
tural Development  in  the  Middle  East.  New  York:  Wiley,  1985. 

Bilginsoy,  Cihan.  "Inflation,  Growth,  and  Import  Bottlenecks  in 
the  Turkish  Manufacturing  Industry,"  Journal  of  Development 
Economics  [North  Holland],  42,  1993,  111-31. 

Celasun,  M.,  andDani  Rodrik.  "Debt,  Adjustment,  and  Growth: 
Turkey."  In  J.  Sachs,  ed.,  Developing  Countries'  Debt.  Chicago: 
University  of  Chicago  Press,  1989. 

(filler,  Tansu.  "The  Economics  of  Exporting  Labour  to  the 
EEC:  A  Turkish  Perspective."  Pages  173-85  in  Elie  Kedourie, 
ed.,  The  Middle  Eastern  Economy.  London:  Cass,  1976. 

Connelly,  A.  Daniel.  "Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation,"  RFE/ 
RL Research  Report  [Munich],  3,  No.  26,  July  1,  1994,  31-38. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Profile:  Turkey,  1994-95. 
London:  1994. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Quarterly  Economic  Review  of  Turkey. 
(Annual  Supplement,  1994.)  London:  1994. 

Eralp,  Atila,  Muharrem  Tunay,  and  Birol  Yesilada.  The  Political 
and  Socioeconomic  Transformation  of  Turkey.  Westport,  Connect- 
icut: Praeger,  1993. 

"Financial  Times  Survey — Turkey,"  Financial  Times  [London], 
May  21,  1992,  1-8. 

"Financial  Times  Survey — Turkey,"  Financial  Times  [London], 
May  7,  1993,  1-8. 

"Financial  Times  Survey — Turkey,"  Financial  Times  [London], 
April  15,  1994,  1-8. 

Griffin,  Keith  B.  Land  Concentration  and  Rural  Poverty.  New  York: 
Holmes  and  Meier,  1976. 

Hale,  William  M.  "The  Traditional  and  the  Modern  in  the 
Economy  of  Kemalist  Turkey:  The  Experience  of  the  1920s." 
Pages  153-70  in  Jacob  M.  Landau,  ed.,  Ataturk  and  the  Mod- 
ernization of  Turkey.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1984. 

Herschlag,  Zvi  Yehuda.  "Ataturk's  Etatism."  Pages  171-80  in 
Jacob  M.  Landau,  ed.,  Ataturk  and  the  Modernization  of  Turkey. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1984. 

Karpat,  Kemal  H.  The  Gecekondu:  Rural  Migration  and  Urbaniza- 
tion. Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1976. 


412 


Bibliography 


Kasnakoglu,  Haluk.  "Agricultural  Price  Support  Policies  in  Tur- 
key: An  Empirical  Investigation."  Pages  131-57  in  Alan  Rich- 
ards, ed.,  Food,  States,  and  Peasants:  Analyses  of  the  Agrarian 
Question  in  the  Middle  East.  (Westview  Special  Studies  on  the 
Middle  East.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1986. 

Korars,  John.  "The  Hydro-Imperative  of  Turkey's  Search  for 
Energy,"  Middle  East  Journal,  40,  No.  1,  Winter  1986,  53-67. 

Krawczk,  Lynn.  "Turkey:  Land  of  Potential  and  Problems,"  For- 
eign Agriculture,  December  5,  1977,  10-12. 

Krueger,  Anne  O.  Turkey.  (Foreign  Trade  Regimes  and  Eco- 
nomic Development  Series.)  New  York:  National  Bureau  of 
Economic  Research,  1974. 

Krueger,  Anne  O.,  and  Okan  H.  Aktan.  Swimming  Against  the 
Tide:  Turkish  Trade  Reform  in  the  1980s.  (International  Center 
for  Economic  Growth.)  San  Francisco:  ICS  Press,  1992. 

Mideast  Newswire.  "Europe,  Turkey  Set  To  Seal  Customs  Union 
Deal,"  March  3,  1995. 

Nas,  FT,  and  Mehmet  Odekon,  eds.  Liberalization  and  the  Turk- 
ish Economy  New  York:  Greenwood  Press,  1988. 

Okyar,  Osman.  "Development  Background  of  the  Turkish 
Economy,  1923-1973,"  International  Journal  of  Middle  East 
Studies,  10,  August  1979,  325-44. 

Onis,  Ziya,  and  James  Riedel.  Economic  Crises  and  Long-Term 
Growth  in  Turkey.  (Comparative  Macroeconomic  Studies.) 
Washington:  World  Bank,  1993. 

Organisation  of  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development. 
Energy  Balances  ofOECD  Countries,  1991-92.  Paris:  1994. 

Organisation  of  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development. 
OECD  Economic  Surveys:  Turkey,  1994.  Paris:  1994. 

Organisation  of  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development. 
OECD  Economic  Surveys:  Turkey,  1995.  Paris:  1995. 

Ozbudun,  Ergun,  and  Aydin  Ulusan,  eds.  The  Political  Economy 
of  Income  Distribution  in  Turkey.  (The  Political  Economy  of 
Income  Distribution  in  Developing  Countries,  No.  1.)  New 
York:  Holmes  and  Meier,  1980. 

Parvin,  Manoucher,  and  Mukerrem  Hie.  "Land  Reform  Versus 
Agricultural  Reform:  Turkish  Miracle  or  Catastrophe 
Delayed?"  International  Journal  of  Middle  East  Studies,  16,  May 
1984,  207-32. 


413 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Ramazanoglu,  Huseyin.  Turkey  in  the  World  Capitalist  System:  A 
Study  of  Industrialization,  Power,  and  Class.  Brookfield,  Ver- 
mont: Gower,  1985. 

Rodrik,  Dani.  "Some  Policy  Dilemmas  in  Turkish  Macroeco- 
nomic  Management."  (Kennedy  School  of  Government  Dis- 
cussion Paper  No.  173D.)  Cambridge:  Harvard  University, 
1988. 

Seddon,  David.  "Turkey:  Economy."  Pages  925-32  in  The  Middle 
East  and  North  Africa,  1995.  Europa:  London,  1994. 

Senses,  Fikret,  ed.  Recent  Industrialization  Experience  of  Turkey  in  a 
Global  Context.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press, 
1994. 

"Survey  of  Turkey's  South  East  Anatolian  Project,"  Financial 
Times  [London],  July  24,  1992,  8,  10. 

"Survey  of  Turkish  Finance  and  Industry,"  Financial  Times  [Lon- 
don], November  25,  1993. 

"Survey  of  Turkish  Finance  and  Industry,"  Financial  Times  [Lon- 
don], November  3,  1994. 

"Survey  of  Turkish  Finance,  Investment,  and  Industry,"  Finan- 
cial Times  [London],  November  18,  1992. 

Waldner,  David.  "Avoiding  the  Inevitable  Pain:  The  Politics  of 
Turkish  Economic  Reform,"  Middle  East  Insight,  March-April 
1995,  39-41. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  also  were  used 
in  the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Briefing  [Istanbul] ;  Financial 
Times,  [London];  International  Monetary  Fund,  Direction  of 
Trade  Statistics;  International  Monetary  Fund,  Government 
Finance  Statistics;  International  Monetary  Fund,  International 
Financial  Statistics;  Middle  East  Economic  Digest  [London];  Middle 
East  Journal;  Middle  East  Report;  Petroleum  Intelligence  Weekly; 
World  Bank,  World  Debt  Tables;  and  World  Bank,  World  Tables.) 

Chapter  4 

Abramowitz,  Morton.  "Dateline  Ankara:  Turkey  after  Ozal,"  For- 
eign Policy,  No.  91,  1993,  164-81. 

Ahmad,  Feroz.  "Islamic  Reassertion  in  Turkey,  Third  World 
Quarterly,  10,  No.  2,  April  1988,  764-68. 

Ahmad,  Feroz.  The  Making  of  Modern  Turkey.  London:  Rout- 
ledge,  1993. 


414 


Bibliography 


Ahmad,  Feroz.  "Military  Intervention  in  Turkey,"  MERIP 

Reports,  No.  93,  January  1981,  5-24. 
Ahmad,  Feroz.  "Politics  and  Islam  in  Modern  Turkey,"  Middle 

Eastern  Studies  [London],  27,  No.  1,  January  1991,  3-21. 
Ahmad,  Feroz.  "The  Turkish  Elections  of  1983,"  MERIP  Reports, 

No.  122,  March-April  1984,  3-11. 
Akin,  Erkan,  and  Omer  Karasapan.  "Turkey's  Tarikats,"  Middle 

East  Report,  No.  153,  July-August  1988,  16-18. 
Amnesty  International.  Turkey:  Torture,  Extrajudicial  Executives, 

and  "Disappearances."  London:  1992. 
Aricanli,  Ali  Tosun,  and  Dani  Rodrik,  eds.  The  Political  Economy 

of  Turkey:  Debt,  Adjustment,  and  Sustainability.  New  York:  Mac- 

millan,  1990. 

Aybet,  Giilnur.  Turkey's  Foreign  Policy  and  Its  Implications  for  the 
West:  A  Turkish  Perspective.  London:  Royal  United  Services 
Institute  for  Defence  Studies,  1994. 

Bahcheli,  Tozun.  Greek-Turkish  Relations  since  1955.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1990. 

Balim,  Qigdem,  Ersin  Kalaycioglu,  Cevat  Karatas,  Gareth  Win- 
row,  and  Feroz  Yasamee,  eds.  Turkey:  Political,  Social,  and  Eco- 
nomic Challenges  in  the  1990s.  New  York:  E.J.  Brill,  1995. 

Barchard,  David.  Turkey  and  the  West.  (Chatham  House  Papers, 
No.  27,  published  for  the  Royal  Institute  of  International 
Affairs.)  London:  Routledge  and  Kegan  Paul,  1985. 

Barkey,  Henri  J.  "Turkish-American  Relations  in  the  Post-War 
Era:  An  Alliance  of  Convenience,"  Orient  [Leverkusen,  Ger- 
many], 33,  No.  3,  1992,  447-64. 

Bianchi,  Robert.  Interest  Groups  and  Political  Development  in  Tur- 
key. Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1984. 

Bilici,  Faruk.  "Sociabilite  et  expression  politique  islamistes  en 
Turquie:  Les  nouveaux  vakifs,"  Revue  francaise  de  science  poli- 
tique [Paris],  43,  No.  3,  June  1993,  412-34. 

Birand,  Mehmet  Ali.  The  Generals'  Coup  in  Turkey:  An  Inside  Story 
of  12  September  1980.  London:  Brassey's,  1987. 

Birand,  Mehmet  Ali.  Shirts  of  Steel:  An  Anatomy  of  the  Turkish 
Armed  Forces.  London:  Tauris,  1991. 

Bodgener,  Jim.  "MEED  Special  Report:  Turkey,"  Middle  East  Eco- 
nomic Digest  [London],  38,  No.  28, July  15,  1994,  7-12. 

Bolukbasi,  Suha.  "Ankara,  Damascus,  Baghdad,  and  the 
Regionalization  of  Turkey's  Kurdish  Secessionism,"  Journal  of 


415 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

South  Asian  and  Middle  Eastern  Studies,  14,  No.  4,  June  1991, 
15-36. 

Bolukbasi,  Suha.  "Turkey,  Syria,  Iraq,  and  the  Euphrates  Dam," 
Journal  of  South  Asian  and  Middle  Eastern  Studies,  16,  No.  4, 
June  1993,  9-32. 

Constitution  of  the  Republic  of  Turkey,  1982.  Ankara:  Directorate 
General  of  Press  and  Information,  1982. 

Couloumbis,  Theodore  A.  The  United  States,  Greece,  and  Turkey: 
The  Troubled  Triangle.  New  York:  Praeger,  1983. 

Cuny,  Frederick  C.  Northern  Iraq:  One  Year  Later.  (Carnegie  Spe- 
cial Report.)  Washington:  Carnegie  Endowment  for  Interna- 
tional Peace,  1992. 

Dahlberg,  Robin,  Christopher  Keith  Hall,  Rhoda  H.  Karpatkin, 
and  Jessica  A.  Neuwirth.  Torture  in  Turkey:  The  Legal  System' s 
Response.  New  York:  Committee  on  International  Human 
Rights  of  the  Bar  of  the  City  of  New  York,  1989. 

Danielson,  Michael  N.,  and  Rusen  Keles.  The  Politics  of  Rapid 
Urbanization:  Government  and  Growth  in  Modern  Turkey.  New 
York:  Holmes  and  Meier,  1985. 

Dodd,  Clement  H.  The  Crisis  of  Turkish  Democracy.  Beverley, 
United  Kingdom:  Eothen  Press,  1983. 

Dodd,  Clement  H.,  ed.  Turkish  Foreign  Policy:  New  Prospects. 
Huntingdon,  United  Kingdom:  Eothen  Press,  1992. 

Elahi,  Maryam.  "Clinton,  Ankara,  and  Kurdish  Human  Rights," 
Middle  East  Report,  No.  189,  July-August  1994,  22-23. 

Finkel,  Andrew,  and  Nukhet  Sirman,  eds.  Turkish  State,  Turkish 
Society.  New  York:  Routledge,  1990. 

Frelick,  Bill.  "The  False  Promise  of  Operation  Provide  Com- 
fort: Protecting  Refugees  or  Protecting  State  Power?"  Middle 
East  Report,  No.  176,  May-June  1992,  22-27. 

Fuller,  Graham  E.  "Turkey  in  the  New  International  Security 
Environment,"  Dis  Politique,  16,  Nos.  3-4,  1992,  29-44. 

Fuller,  Graham  E.,  Ian  O.  Lesser,  Paul  B.  Henze,  andJ.F. 
Brown.  Turkey's  New  Geopolitics:  From  the  Balkans  to  Western 
China.  (A  Rand  Study.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 
1993. 

Gunter,  Michael  M.  The  Kurds  in  Turkey:  A  Political  Dilemma. 

Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1990. 
Harris,  George  S.  Turkey:  Coping  with  Crisis.  Boulder,  Colorado: 

Westview  Press,  1985. 


416 


Bibliography 


Helsinki  Watch.  Paying  the  Price:  Freedom  of  Expression  in  Turkey. 

New  York:  1989. 
Heper,  Metin.  "The  Recalcitrance  of  the  Turkish  Public 

Bureaucracy  to  'Bourgeois  Polities':  Multi-Factor  Political 

Stratification  Analysis,"  Middle  East  Journal,  39,  No.  4, 

Autumn  1976,  492-96. 
Heper,  Metin,  ed.  Local  Government  in  Turkey:  Governing  Greater 

Istanbul  London:  Routledge,  1989. 
Heper,  Metin,  ed.  Strong  State  and  Economic  Interest  Groups:  The 

Post-1980  Turkish  Experience.  New  York:  de  Gruyter,  1991. 
Heper,  Metin,  and  Ahmet  Evin,  eds.  Politics  in  the  Third  Turkish 

Republic.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 
Heper,  Metin,  and  Ahmet  Evin,  eds.  State,  Democracy,  and  the 

Military:  Turkey  in  the  1980s.  New  York:  de  Gruyter,  1988. 
Heper,  Metin,  and  Jacob  M.  Landau,  eds.  Political  Parties  and 

Democracy  in  Turkey.  New  York:  Tauris,  1991. 
Johnstone,  Diana.  "Turkey's  Other  NATO  Link,"  Middle  East 

Report,  No.  160,  September-October  1989,  17-18. 
Karasapan,  Omer.  "Turkey  and  US  Strategy  in  the  Age  of  Glas- 

nost,"  Middle  East  Report,  No.  160,  September-October  1989, 

4-10,  22. 

Kemal,  Ahmet.  "Military  Rule  and  the  Future  of  Democracy  in 
Turkey,"  MERIP Reports,  No.  122,  March-April  1984,  12-15. 

Keyder,  Caglar.  State  and  Class  in  Turkey:  A  Study  in  Capitalist 
Development.  New  York:  Verso,  1987. 

Kuniholm,  Bruce  R.  "Turkey  and  the  West,"  Foreign  Affairs,  70, 
No.  2,  Spring  1991,  34-48. 

Kutschera,  Chris.  "Mad  Dreams  of  Independence:  The  Kurds 
of  Turkey  and  the  PKK,"  Middle  East  Report,  No.  189,  July- 
August  1994,  12-15. 

Laber,  Jeri,  and  Lois  Whitman.  Destroying  Ethnic  Identity:  The 
Kurds  of  Turkey,  An  Update.  New  York:  Helsinki  Watch  Com- 
mittee, March  1988. 

Lorieux,  Claude.  "Turquie:  Tansu  (filler  face  aux  vieux 
demons,"  Le Figaro  [Paris], July  7,  1993. 

MacDonald,  Scott  B.  "Turkey's  1991  Elections:  Democracy 
Renewed  or  the  Past  Revisited?"  Middle  East  Insight,  8,  No.  3. 
January-February  1992,  25-30. 

MacDonald,  Scott  B.,  and  Amy  Kaslow.  "From  Crisis  to  Cautious 
Recovery:  Middle  Eastern  Economies  after  the  Gulf  War, 


417 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Part  II,"  Middle  East  Insight,  8,  No.  6,  July-October  1992,  64- 
69. 

Magnarella,  Paul.  "Desecularization,  State  Corporatism,  and 
Development  in  Turkey,  "Journal  of  Third  World  Studies,  6,  No. 
2,  1989,  32-49. 

Marcus,  Aliza.  "City  in  the  War  Zone,"  Middle  East  Report,  No. 

189,  July-August  1994,  16-19. 
Mardin,  Serif  A.  Religion  and  Social  Change  in  Modern  Turkey:  The 

Case  of  Bediuzzaman  Said  Nursi.  Albany:  State  University  of 

New  York  Press,  1989. 
Margulies,  Ronnie,  and  Ergin  Yildizoglu.  "The  Political  Uses  of 

Islam  in  Turkey,"  Middle  East  Report,  No.  153,  July-August 

1988,  12-17. 

Margulies,  Ronnie,  and  Ergin  Yildizoglu.  "Trade  Unions  and 
Turkey's  Working  Class,"  MERIP  Reports,  No.  121,  February 
1984,15-20,31. 

Migdalovitz,  Carol.  "Turkey:  Ally  in  a  Troubled  Region." 
(Library  of  Congress,  Congressional  Research  Service,  93- 
835F.)  Washington:  September  14,  1993. 

Onis,  Ziya.  "Privatization  and  the  Logic  of  Coalition  Building," 
Comparative  Political  Studies,  24,  July  1991,  231-53. 

Pevsner,  Lucille,  W.  Turkey's  Political  Crisis:  Background,  Perspec- 
tives, and  Prospects.  New  York:  Praeger,  1984. 

Pope,  Hugh.  "Turkey  at  the  Crossroads,"  Middle  East  Interna- 
tional [London],  No.  454,  July  9,  1993,  12-13. 

Pope,  Hugh.  "Turkey:  Radical  New  Message,"  Middle  East  Inter- 
national [London],  No.  480,  July  22,  1994,  13. 

Robins,  Philip.  "Between  Sentiment  and  Self-interest:  Turkey's 
Policy  toward  Azerbaijan  and  the  Central  Asian  States,"  Mid- 
dle East  Journal,  47,  No.  4,  Autumn  1993,  593-610. 

Robins,  Philip.  Turkey  and  the  Middle  East.  London:  Royal  Insti- 
tute of  International  Affairs  and  New  York:  Council  on  For- 
eign Relations  Press,  1991. 

Rouleau,  Eric.  "The  Challenges  to  Turkey,"  Foreign  Affairs,  72, 
No.  5,  November-December  1993,  110-26. 

Salame,  Ghassan.  "Torn  Between  the  Atlantic  and  the  Mediter- 
ranean: Europe  and  the  Middle  East  in  the  Post-Cold  War 
Era,"  Middle  East  Journal,  48,  No.  2,  Spring  1994,  226-49. 


418 


Bibliography 


Sayari,  Sabri.  "Turkey:  The  Changing  European  Security  Envi- 
ronment and  the  Gulf  Crisis,"  Middle  East  Journal,  46,  No.  1, 
Winter  1992,  9-21. 

Schick,  Irvin  Cemil,  and  Ahmet  Ertugrul  Tonak,  eds.  Turkey  in 
Transition:  New  Perspectives.  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press, 
1987. 

Sezer,  Duygu  Bazoglu.  "State  and  Society  in  Turkey:  Continuity 
and  Change?"  (Paper  presented  at  Rand's  1992  Middle  East 
Conference,  Transformations  of  State  and  Society  in  the 
Middle  East.)  Santa  Monica,  California:  1993. 

Stearns,  Monteagle.  Entangled  Allies:  US  Policy  toward  Greece,  Tur- 
key, and  Cyprus.  New  York:  Council  on  Foreign  Relations 
Press,  1992. 

Steinbach,  Udo.  "Turkey-ECC  Relations:  Cultural  Dimension." 
Pages  13-24  in  Erol  Manisali,  ed.,  Turkey' s  Place  in  Europe:  Eco- 
nomic, Political,  and  Cultural  Dimensions.  Istanbul:  Ucer,  1990. 

Tachau,  Frank.  Turkey:  The  Politics  of  Authority,  Democracy,  and 
Development.  New  York:  Praeger,  1984. 

Tapper,  Richard,  ed.  Islam  in  Modern  Turkey:  Religion,  Politics, 
and  Literature  in  a  Secular  State.  London:  Tauris,  1991. 

"Turkey."  Pages  867-92  in  The  Middle  East  and  North  Africa, 
1994.  London:  Europa,  1993. 

Van  Bruinessen,  Martin.  "Between  Guerrilla  War  and  Political 
Murder:  The  Workers'  Party  of  Kurdistan,"  Middle  East  Report, 
No.  153,  July-August  1988,  40-42,  44-46. 

Yalcin-Heckmann,  Lale.  Tribe  and  Kinship  among  the  Kurds. 
Frankfurt:  Lang,  1991. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  also  were  used 
in  the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Christian  Science  Monitor,  For- 
eign Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  Europe,  Los 
Angeles  Times;  New  York  Times;  Turkish  Daily  News  [Ankara] ;  and 
Washington  Post.) 

Chapter  5 

Amnesty  International.  Amnesty  International  Report,  1993.  New 
York:  1994. 

Amnesty  International.  Turkey:  Dissident  Voices  Jailed  Again.  New 
York:  1993. 


419 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Aris,  Hakki.  "A  New  Era  in  SSM  Activities,"  Military  Technology 
[Bonn],  17,  No.  3,  February  1994,  85-89. 

Aybet,  Giilnur.  "Turkey  in  Its  Geo-Strategic  Environment." 
Pages  91-114  in  Royal  United  Services  Institute  for  Defence 
Studies,  ed.,  Defence  Yearbook,  1992.  London:  Brassey's,  1992. 

Barkey,  Henri  j.  "Turkish-American  Relations  in  the  Post-War 
Era:  An  Alliance  of  Convenience,"  Orient  [Leverkusen,  Ger- 
many], 33,  No.  3,  1992,  447-64. 

Barraclough,  Colin.  "The  Kurds:  A  Fire  in  Turkey's  Under- 
belly," Insight,  9,  No.  43,  October  25,  1993,  6-11. 

Bayazit,  Vural.  "Black  Sea  and  Mediterranean  Challenges  for 
the  Turkish  Navy,"  NATO's  Sixteen  Nations  [Brussels],  39,  Jan- 
uary 1994,  67-69. 

Bayazit,  Vural.  "The  Turkish  Naval  Forces — Changing  Tasks," 
NATO's  Sixteen  Nations  [Brussels],  38,  Special  Issue,  April 
1993,  45-52. 

Birand,  Mehmet  Ali.  Shirts  of  Steel:  An  Anatomy  of  the  Turkish 

Armed  Forces.  London:  Tauris,  1991. 
Boliikbasi,  Siiha.  "Turkey  Challenges  Iraq  and  Syria:  The 

Euphrates  Dispute,"  Journal  of  South  Asian  and  Middle  Eastern 

Studies,  16,  No.  4,  Summer  1993,  9-32. 
Brown,  James.  "Turkey  in  the  Age  of  Glasnost,"  Current  History, 

89,  No.  550,  November  1990,  377-81. 
Burhan,  Halis.  "The  Turkish  Air  Force — Restructuring  and 

Modernization  in  the  New  Era,"  NATO's  Sixteen  Nations 

[Brussels],  38,  April  1993,  39-42. 
Cowell,  Alan.  "Turks'  War  with  Kurds  Reaches  a  New  Ferocity," 

New  York  Times,  October  18,  1993,  A3. 
Davis,  Brian  L.  NATO  Forces:  An  Rlustrated  Reference  to  Their  Orga- 
nization and  Insignia.  London:  Blandford,  1988. 
"Defence  of  Turkey."  NATO's  Sixteen  Nations  [Brussels]  (Special 

Issue),  1993. 

Erdem,  Vahit.  "Constituting  a  Defence  Industry  Infrastruc- 
ture," NATO's  Sixteen  Nations  [Brussels],  38,  April  1993,  89- 
95. 

Far  men,  William  N.,  and  Erwin  F.  Lessel  III.  "Forward  Presence 
in  Turkey:  Case  Study,"  The  D ISAM  Journal  of  International 
Security  Assistance  Management,  15,  No.  3,  Spring  1993,  54—61. 

Fuller,  Graham  E.  "Turkey's  New  Eastern  Orientation."  Pages 
37-98  in  Graham  E.  Fuller  and  Ian  O.  Lesser,  Paul  B.  Henze, 


420 


Bibliography 


and  J.F.  Brown.  Turkey's  New  Geopolitics:  From  the  Balkans  to 
Western  China.  (A  Rand  Study.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview 
Press,  1993. 

Gunter,  Michael  M.  The  Changing  Kurdish  Problem  in  Turkey.  Lon- 
don: Research  Institute  for  the  Study  of  Conflict  and  Terror- 
ism, 1994. 

Giires,  Dogan.  "Turkey  Defence  Policy:  The  Role  of  the  Armed 
Forces  and  Strategy,  Concepts,  and  Capabilities,"  Journal  of 
the  Royal  United  Services  Institute  for  Defence  Studies  [London], 
138,  No.  3,  June  1993,  1-6. 

Hale,  William  M.  "Turkey,  the  Middle  East,  and  the  Gulf  Crisis, 
International  Affairs  [London],  68,  No.  2,  Spring  1992,  679- 
92. 

Henze,  Paul  B.  "Turkey:  Toward  the  Twenty-First  Century." 
Pages  1-36  in  Graham  E.  Fuller  and  Ian  O.  Lesser,  Paul  B. 
Henze,  and  J.F.  Brown,  Turkey's  New  Geopolitics:  From  the  Bal- 
kans to  Western  China.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 
1993. 

liter,  Aydin.  "The  Turkish  Gendarmerie — Facing  the  Future," 
NATO's  Sixteen  Nations  [Brussels],  38,  April  1993,  61-62. 

Jane' s  Fighting  Ships,  1993-94.  Ed.,  Richard  Sharpe.  Alexandria, 
Virginia:  Jane's  Information  Group,  1993. 

Jane' s  Fighting  Ships,  1994-95.  Ed.,  Richard  Sharpe.  Alexandria, 
Virginia:  Jane's  Informadon  Group,  1994. 

Karadayi,  Ismail  Hakki.  "The  Turkish  Land  Forces — Duties, 
Responsibilities,  and  Organization,"  NATO's  Sixteen  Nations 
[Brussels],  38,  April  1993,  29-34. 

Kuniholm,  Bruce  R.  "Turkey  and  the  West,"  Foreign  Affairs,  70, 
No.  2,  Spring  1991,  34-48. 

Lesser,  Ian  O.  "Bridge  or  Barrier?  Turkey  and  the  West  after 
the  Cold  War."  Pages  99-140  in  Graham  E.  Fuller  and  Ian  O. 
Lesser,  Paul  B.  Henze,  and  J.F.  Brown,  Turkey's  New  Geopoli- 
tics: From  the  Balkans  to  Western  China.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Westview  Press,  1993. 

Migdalovitz,  Carol.  "Turkey:  Ally  in  a  Troubled  Region." 
(Library  of  Congress,  Congressional  Research  Service,  93- 
835F.)  Washington:  September  14,  1993. 

The  Military  Balance,  1993-1994.  London:  International  Insti- 
tute for  Strategic  Studies,  1993. 


421 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


The  Military  Balance,  1994-1995.  London:  International  Insti- 
tute for  Strategic  Studies,  1994. 

Robins,  Philip.  "Between  Sentiment  and  Self-interest:  Turkey's 
Policy  Toward  Azerbaijan  and  the  Central  Asian  States,"  Mid- 
dle East  Journal,  47,  No.  4,  Autumn  1993,  593-610. 

Sezer,  Duygu  Bazoglu.  "Europe's  Eastern  Bastion — New  Vistas 
for  Turkey,"  NATO's  Sixteen  Nations  [Brussels],  38,  February 

1993,  10-15. 

Stenhouse,  Mark.  "Turkey."  Pages  313-19  in  Bruce  George,  ed., 
Jane's  NATO  Handbook,  1991-92.  Coulsdon,  United  King- 
dom: Jane's  Information  Group,  1991. 

Teimourian,  Hazhir.  "Turkey — The  Challenge  of  the  Kurdistan 
Workers'  P 'arty,"  Jane's  Intelligence  Review  [Coulsdon,  United 
Kingdom],  5,  No.  1, January  1993,  29-32. 

Turkey.  Prime  Ministry.  State  Institute  of  Statistics.  Statistical 
Yearbook  of  Turkey,  1993.  Ankara:  1993. 

"Turkey."  Pages  856-900  in  The  Middle  East  and  North  Africa, 

1994.  London:  Europa,  1993. 

United  States.  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World 
Military  Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1991-1993.  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  1994. 

United  States.  Department  of  Defense.  Terrorist  Group  Profiles. 
Washington:  GPO,  1988. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human 
Rights  Practices  for  1992.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States 
Congress,  103d,  1st  Session,  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign 
Relations,  and  House  of  Representatives,  Committee  on  For- 
eign Affairs.)  Washington:  GPO,  1993. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human 
Rights  Practices  for  1993.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States 
Congress,  103d,  2d  Session,  House  of  Representatives,  Com- 
mittee on  Foreign  Affairs,  and  Senate,  Committee  on  For- 
eign Relations.)  Washington:  GPO,  1994. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  International  Narcotics  Con- 
trol Strategy  Report.  Washington:  GPO,  1994. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Patterns  of  Global  Terrorism, 

1992.  Washington:  1993. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Patterns  of  Global  Terrorism, 

1993.  Washington:  1994. 


422 


Bibliography 


United  States.  Department  of  State  and  the  Defense  Security 
Assistance  Agency.  Congressional  Presentation  for  Security  Assis- 
tance, Fiscal  Year  1994.  Washington:  1993. 

Wyllie,  James.  "Turkey — Adapting  to  New  Strategic  Realities," 
Jane' s  Intelligence  Review  [Coulsdon,  United  Kingdom],  4,  No. 
10,  October  1992,  450-51. 

Wyllie,  James.  "Turkey's  Eastern  Crisis ,"  Jane's  Intelligence  Review 
[Coulsdon,  United  Kingdom],  5,  No.  11,  November  1993, 
506-507. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  also  were  used 
in  the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Economist  [London];  For- 
eign Broadcast  Information  Service,  West  Europe  Report;  Jane's 
Defence  Weekly  [London] ;  Keesing's  Record  of  World  Events  [Lon- 
don], New  York  Times;  and  Washington  Post.) 


423 


Glossary 


Alevi — (Alawi  in  Arabic),  a  heterodox  Shia  (q.v.)  Islamic  sect 
that  has  many  followers  in  Turkey. 

barrels  per  day — Production  of  crude  oil  and  petroleum  prod- 
ucts is  frequently  measured  in  barrels  per  day,  often  abbre- 
viated bpd  or  bd.  A  barrel  is  a  volume  measure  of  forty-two 
United  States  gallons.  Conversion  of  barrels  to  tons 
depends  on  the  density  of  the  specific  product.  About  7.3 
barrels  of  average  crude  oil  weigh  one  ton.  Heavy  crude 
weighs  about  seven  barrels  per  ton.  Light  products,  such  as 
gasoline  and  kerosene,  average  close  to  eight  barrels  per 
ton. 

capitulations — Special  agreements  between  the  Ottoman 
Empire  and  various  foreign  governments  giving  those  gov- 
ernments and  their  citizens  and  subjects  specific  exemp- 
tions from  the  laws  of  the  empire. 

Common  Agricultural  Policy — Agricultural  support  system  of 
the  EU  (q.v.),  under  which  farmers'  incomes  are  main- 
tained through  a  system  of  target  prices  for  agricultural 
commodities. 

etatism — Often  considered  as  state  socialism.  In  Turkish  use,  it 
involves  state  control  of  some  industries  and  public  ser- 
vices. 

European  Community  (EC) — See  European  Union  (EU). 

European  Currency  Unit  (ECU) — Instituted  in  1979,  the  ECU 
is  the  unit  of  account  of  the  EU  (q.v.).  The  value  of  the 
ECU  is  determined  by  the  value  of  a  basket  that  includes 
the  currencies  of  all  EU  member  states.  In  establishing  the 
value  of  the  basket,  each  member's  currency  receives  a 
share  that  reflects  the  relative  strength  and  importance  of 
the  member's  economy.  In  1995  one  ECU  was  equivalent 
to  about  one  United  States  dollar. 

European  Union  (EU) — Until  November  1993,  the  EU  was 
known  as  the  European  Community  (EC).  The  EU  com- 
prises three  communities:  the  European  Coal  and  Steel 
Community  (ECSC),  the  European  Economic  Community 
(EEC),  and  the  European  Atomic  Energy  Community 
(Euratom).  Each  community  is  a  legally  distinct  body,  but 
since  1967  they  have  shared  common  governing  institu- 
tions. The  EU  forms  more  than  a  framework  for  free  trade 


425 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

and  economic  cooperation:  the  signatories  to  the  treaties 
governing  the  communities  have  agreed  in  principle  to 
integrate  their  economies  and  ultimately  to  form  a  politi- 
cal union.  Belgium,  France,  Italy,  Luxembourg,  the  Neth- 
erlands, and  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West 
Germany)  were  charter  members  of  the  EU;  Britain,  Den- 
mark, and  Ireland  joined  on  January  1,  1973;  Greece 
became  a  member  on  January  1,  1981;  Portugal  and  Spain 
entered  on  January  1,  1986;  and  Austria,  Finland,  and  Swe- 
den became  members  on  January  1,  1995. 
fiscal  year — Calendar  year  since  1983. 

gecekondus — Literally,  "built  overnight";  term  used  for  shantyl- 
ike squatter  housing  erected  on  outskirts  of  large  cities. 
Ottoman  custom  dictated  that  once  a  structure  was  built,  it 
could  not  be  destroyed. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — A  value  measure  of  the  flow  of 
domestic  goods  and  services  produced  by  an  economy 
over  a  period  of  time,  such  as  a  year.  Only  output  values  of 
goods  for  final  consumption  and  intermediate  production 
are  assumed  to  be  included  in  the  final  prices.  GDP  is 
sometimes  aggregated  and  shown  at  market  prices,  mean- 
ing that  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies  are  included;  when 
these  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies  have  been  eliminated, 
the  result  is  GDP  at  factor  cost.  The  word  gross  indicates 
that  deductions  for  depreciation  of  physical  assets  have 
not  been  made.  See  also  gross  national  product. 

gross  national  product  (GNP) — The  gross  domestic  product 
(q.v.)  plus  net  income  or  loss  stemming  from  transactions 
with  foreign  countries  including  income  received  from 
abroad  by  residents  and  subtracting  payments  remitted 
abroad  to  nonresidents.  GNP  is  the  broadest  measurement 
of  the  output  of  goods  and  services  by  an  economy.  It  can 
be  calculated  at  market  prices,  which  include  indirect 
taxes  and  subsidies.  Because  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies 
are  only  transfer  payments,  GNP  is  often  calculated  at  fac- 
tor cost  by  removing  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies. 

imam — A  word  used  in  several  senses.  In  general  use  and  lower- 
cased, it  means  the  leader  of  congregational  prayers;  as 
such  it  implies  no  ordination  or  special  spiritual  powers 
beyond  sufficient  education  to  carry  out  this  function. 
Imam  is  also  used  figuratively  by  many  Sunni  (q.v.)  Mus- 
lims to  mean  the  leader  of  the  Islamic  community.  Among 
Shia  (q.v.)  the  word  takes  on  many  complex  and  contro- 


426 


Glossary 


versial  meanings;  in  general,  however,  it  indicates  that  par- 
ticular descendant  of  the  House  of  Ali  who  is  believed  to 
have  been  God's  designated  repository  of  the  spiritual 
authority  inherent  in  that  line.  The  identity  of  this  individ- 
ual and  the  means  of  ascertaining  his  identity  have  been 
major  issues  causing  divisions  among  Shia. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with 
the  World  Bank  (q.v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized 
agency  affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  and  is  responsi- 
ble for  stabilizing  international  exchange  rates  and  pay- 
ments. The  main  business  of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of 
loans  to  its  members  (including  industrialized  and  devel- 
oping countries)  when  they  experience  balance  of  pay- 
ments difficulties.  These  loans  frequently  carry  conditions 
that  require  substantial  internal  economic  adjustments  by 
the  recipients,  most  of  which  are  developing  countries. 

lira — Turkish  currency;  1  Turkish  lira  (TL)  =  100  kurus.  Value 
of  the  lira  has  fluctuated  considerably.  In  1989  US$1.00  = 
TL2,122;  in  1991  US$1.00  =  TL4,172;  in  1993  US$1.00  = 
TL10,983;  in  January  1994  US$1.00  =  TL  15,196;  as  of 
August  31,  1995,  US$1.00  =  TL47,963. 

millet — A  non-Muslim  group  or  community  in  the  Ottoman 
Empire  organized  under  its  own  religious  head,  who  also 
exercised  important  civil  functions. 

National  Security  Council  (NSC — Mili  Giivenlik  Kurulu)  — 
Under  both  the  1961  and  the  1982  constitutions,  the  NSC 
comprised  military  and  civilian  personnel  and  was  charged 
with  reviewing  national  security  policy.  The  generals  who 
took  control  of  Turkey's  government  in  1980  also  consti- 
tuted themselves  as  a  National  Security  Council  (Milli 
Giivenlik  Konseyi);  this  body  was  abolished  following  the 
reestablishment  of  civilian  government  after  the  1983  elec- 
tion. The  former  members  of  the  1980-83  NSC,  except  for 
President  Evren,  subsequently  formed  the  Presidential 
Council,  whose  function  was  to  advise  the  president.  The 
Presidential  Council  was  dissolved  in  1989. 

North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO) — In  1995  mem- 
bership composed  of  Belgium,  Britain,  Canada,  Denmark, 
Germany,  Greece,  Italy,  Luxembourg,  the  Netherlands, 
Norway,  Portugal,  Spain,  Turkey,  and  United  States. 

Shia  (from  Shiat  Ali,  the  Party  of  Ali) — A  member  of  the 
smaller  of  the  two  great  divisions  of  Islam.  The  Shia  origi- 
nated in  a  dispute  over  who  should  be  the  legitimate  suc- 


427 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 

cessor  to  the  Prophet;  a  majority  of  early  Muslims  accepted 
the  tradition  of  community  consensus  to  choose  the 
leader,  but  a  minority  supported  the  claim  of  Ali,  the 
Prophet's  cousin,  to  inherit  the  mantle  of  leadership.  Over 
time,  theological  differences  emerged  between  the  Shia 
and  Sunni  (q.v.).  The  Alevi  (q.v.),  Ismaili,  Twelve  Imam 
Shia,  and  Zayidi  all  are  distinct  Shia  sects. 

Sublime  Porte  (or  Porte) — Ottoman  Empire  palace  entrance 
that  provided  access  to  the  chief  minister,  who  represented 
the  government  and  the  sultan.  Term  came  to  mean  the 
Ottoman  government. 

Sunni — (from  Arabic  sunna,  tradition  or  precedent) — A  fol- 
lower of  the  larger  of  the  two  primary  denominations  of 
Islam. 

tarikat  (pi.,  tarikatlar) — A  Sufi  order  or  lodge,  usually  headed  by 
a  teacher  or  master  known  as  a  seyh,  in  which  devotees 
undertake  a  path  of  instruction  toward  spiritual  perfec- 
tion. 

Warsaw  Treaty  Organization — Formal  name  for  Warsaw  Pact. 
Political-military  alliance  founded  by  the  Soviet  Union  in 
1955  as  a  counterweight  to  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Orga- 
nization (q.v.).  Albania,  an  original  member,  stopped  par- 
ticipating in  Warsaw  Pact  activities  in  1962  and  withdrew  in 
1968.  Members  in  1991  included  Bulgaria,  Czechoslovakia, 
East  Germany,  Hungary,  Poland,  Romania,  and  the  Soviet 
Union.  Before  it  was  formally  dissolved  in  April  1991,  the 
Warsaw  Pact  served  as  the  Soviet  Union's  primary  mecha- 
nism for  keeping  political  and  military  control  over  East- 
ern Europe. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  four 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank 
for  Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  Interna- 
tional Development  Association  (IDA),  the  International 
Finance  Corporation  (IFC),  and  the  Multilateral  Invest- 
ment Guarantee  Agency  (MIGA).  The  IBRD,  established 
in  1945,  has  as  its  primary  purpose  the  provision  of  loans 
to  developing  countries  for  productive  projects.  The  IDA, 
a  legally  separate  loan  fund  but  administered  by  the  staff 
of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to  furnish  credits  to  the 
poorest  developing  countries  on  much  easier  terms  than 
those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC,  founded  in 
1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD  through  loans 
and  assistance  designed  specifically  to  encourage  the 


428 


Glossary 


growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  the  less  devel- 
oped countries.  The  MIGA,  founded  in  1988,  insures  pri- 
vate foreign  investment  in  developing  countries  against 
various  noncommercial  risks.  The  president  and  certain 
senior  officers  of  the  IBRD  hold  the  same  positions  in  the 
IFC.  The  four  institutions  are  owned  by  the  governments 
of  the  countries  that  subscribe  their  capital.  To  participate 
in  the  World  Bank  group,  member  states  must  first  belong 
to  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — q.v.). 


429 


Index 


Abbasid  dynasty,  109 
Abdul  Hamid  II,  26-27;  forced  to  abdi- 
cate, 28,  32,  308 
Abdiilmecid,  35 
Abkaz,  102 
abortion,  91,92 
Abraham.  See  Ibrahim 
Abu  Hanifa,  109 

acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 

(AIDS),  144 
Adalet  Partisi.  See  Justice  Party 
administrative  commission,  251 
Adrianople,  17 
adultery,  135 

Aegean  region,  78,  81;  agriculture  in,  81; 
climate  of,  81,  84-86;  immigrants  in, 
89;  population  density  in,  87;  rainfall 
in,  81;  villages  in,  131 

Aegean  Sea:  conflict  over,  with  Greece, 
55-56,  66,  236,  297-98,  319,  337,  365 

Afghanistan:  relations  with,  39;  Soviet 
invasion  of,  286 

AFL-CIO.  See  American  Federation  of 
Labor-Congress  of  Industrial  Organi- 
zations 

agrarian  reform,  176 

Agricultural  Bank  of  Turkey  (Turkiye 
Cumhuriyeti  Ziraat  Bankasi — TCZB), 
180,212,  213 

agricultural  production,  153,  178,  187- 
91;  cropping  patterns,  187-91;  and 
rainfall,  180-81,  187 

agricultural  products  {see  also  under  indi- 
vidual crops):  cash  crops,  26,  176;  cit- 
rus fruit,  81,  82,  176;  cotton,  82,  83, 
180,  182,  189,  206;  exports  of,  176, 
178-79,  187,  220;  fruit,  83,  176,  180, 
190-91;  grain,  82,  83,  97,  182,  187-89; 
nuts,  81,  190;  oilseeds,  190;  olives,  81, 
176;  opium  poppies,  83,  190,  370; 
pulses,  182,  189;  sugar  beets,  189-90; 
tobacco,  81,  83,  176,  180,  189;  vegeta- 
bles, 82, 176, 190-91 

Agricultural  Supply  Organization,  180 

agriculture,  175-94;  in  Aegean  region, 


131;  in  Anatolian  Plateau,  83;  in  Ara- 
bian Platform,  84;  in  Black  Sea  area, 
81,  131;  budget  for,  251;  commercial, 
186;  development  of,  152,  176; 
employment  in,  159,  161;  export 
crops,  178;  extension  services,  180; 
government  intervention  in,  179; 
growth  of,  176;  income  from,  176; 
investment  in,  176;  irrigation  in,  82, 
83,  180-82;  land  for,  182,  187;  mecha- 
nization of,  129,  182;  in  Mediterra- 
nean region,  82,  131;  modernization 
of,  150,  161,  182;  as  percentage  of 
gross  domestic  product,  159,  176; 
research  on,  180;  self-sufficiency  in, 
175;  subsidies  for,  178,  179-80;  subsis- 
tence, 149 

Agn  Dagi.  See  Mount  Ararat 

Agusta  aircraft  company,  353 

Ahmet  III,  22 

AIDS.  See  acquired  immune  deficiency 
syndrome 

air  force,  339-41;  insignia,  345,  348; 
ranks,  345,  348;  reserves,  329;  uni- 
forms, 345 

air  force  academy  at  Istanbul,  330,  340- 
41;  selection  for,  331-32 

airports,  217;  state  control  of,  171 

Air  Technical  Schools  Command,  341 

AkbankTAS,  212,  213 

Akbulut,  Yildirim,  259,  266 

Aktash,  Timotheos  Samuel,  122 

Aktuel,  283 

Albania:  military  relations  with,  318; 
relations  with,  66,  317 

Alexander  the  Great,  9 

Algeria:  imports  from,  202;  seized  by 
France,  25 

Algiers:  conquest  of,  21 

Ali  ibn  Abu  Tali b,  109,  114 

Allied  Land  Forces  Southeastern 
Europe,  48 

Allies:  guerrilla  warfare  against,  33;  occu- 
pation of  Turkey  by,  32 

Alp  Arslan.  SeeMehmetibn  Daud 


431 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


American  Federation  of  Labor-Congress 
of  Industrial  Organizations  (AFL- 
CIO),  165 

Amnesty  International,  257,  283,  296, 
374 

Anadolu  Ajansi  (Anatolian  Agency) ,  284 

ANAP.  ^Motherland  Party 

Anatolia:  Armenians  in,  103;  under  Byz- 
antine Empire,  11;  formation  of,  77; 
geography  of,  75;  history  of,  3,  6-10; 
immigrants  in,  89;  oil  fields  in,  198; 
under  Ottoman  Empire,  21;  under 
Rome,  10;  villages  in,  129-31;  with- 
drawal of  occupying  forces  from,  34 

Anatolia,  southeast:  infrastructure  in, 
xxxi;  Kurdish  resistance  in,  xxxi;  pov- 
erty in,  xxxi;  terrorism  in,  xxxv;  troops 
stationed  in,  307;  villages  in,  131-32 

Anatolian  Plateau,  83-84;  agriculture  in, 
83,  182,  190;  climate  in,  83-84,  86; 
population  in,  87;  rainfall  in,  83,  84, 
180;  Turks  in,  96-97 

Anavatan  Partisi.  See  Motherland  Party 

Ankara,  76;  Kurds  in,  235;  population  of, 
88 

Ankara  University:  religious  education 

in,  118-19 
Anti-Taurus  Mountains,  84;  climate  in, 

86 

Anti-Terror  Law  of  1991,  367,  368 
AP.  Seejustice  Party 
Arabia:  under  Ottoman  Empire,  21 
Arabian  Platform,  78,  84 
Arabic  language,  92 
Arab-Israeli  conflict,  293,  294,  300 
Arab  Revolt  (1916),  31 
Arabs,  101-2,  282;  religion  of,  100;  ties 
of,  with  Syrians,  101-2;  in  villages,  131 
Aras  River,  84 

archaeological  research,  3;  in  Anatolia,  6 
Ariburun,  Tekin,  49 

armed  forces,  321-48;  attitudes  toward, 
309;  careers  in,  309;  conscription  for, 
327;  under  constitution  of  1982,  321- 
22;  coups  d'etat  by,  4-5;  as  guardians 
of  Kemalism,  42;  ideology  of,  311-12; 
janissary,  307;  missions  of,  272,  305-6, 
307-8,  311;  modernization  of,  305, 
306,  307;  national  security  under,  272; 
number  of  personnel  in,  321;  offen- 
sives of,  against  Kurds,  xxxv,  xxxvi, 
236,  339,  356;  origins  of,  307;  Otto- 


man, 305,  307;  political  role  of,  xxvii, 
272,  310-12;  professionalization  of, 
327;  reforms  of,  22;  reserves,  327, 
328-29;  resources,  229;  restructuring 
of,  305;  and  society,  309-10;  staff  acad- 
emies, 332-33;  training,  27,  330-33; 
uniforms,  ranks,  and  insignia  of,  345- 
48;  women  in,  330 

Armed  Forces  Academy,  333 

Armenia:  annexed,  14;  attack  on,  34-35; 
borders  with,  76;  economic  ties  with, 
229;  relations  with,  287,  314;  revolu- 
tion in,  27;  war  of,  with  Azerbaijan,  66 

Armenian  Catholic  Church,  120,  122 

Armenian  Orthodox  Church,  120,  122, 
373 

Armenian  Revolutionary  Army,  359 
Armenians,  9,  103-4,  282-83;  deporta- 
tion of,  30,  89,  104,  153;  diaspora  of, 
14,  153;  massacre  of,  30, 104, 153,  282, 
300,  350,  358;  in  Ottoman  bureau- 
cracy, 20;  terrorism  by,  358-59;  in 
World  War  I,  30 
Armenian  Secret  Army  for  the  Libera- 
tion of  Armenia  (ASALA),  282,  358, 
359 

Armistice  of  Mundanya  (1922),  35 

army,  335-39;  Aegean,  319;  deployment 
of,  237,  336;  insignia,  345,  348;  mate- 
riel of,  306,  335;  mission  of,  335;  num- 
ber of  personnel  in,  306,  335; 
organization  of,  306,  335-37;  ranks, 
345,  348;  reserves,  329;  restructuring 
of,  335-37;  uniforms,  345 

army  academy  at  Tuzla,  330;  police  can- 
didates in,  362;  selection  for,  331-32 

Army  Mutual  Aid  Association  (Ordu 
Yardimlasma  Kurumu — OYAK) ,  335 

Artvin  Province,  102 

ASALA.  See  Armenian  Secret  Army  for 
the  Liberation  of  Armenia 

ASELSAN  Military-Electronics  Indus- 
tries, 353 

Asian -American  Free  Labor  Institute, 
165 

assassinations,  270,  282;  292,  354,  360 
Assyrian  Empire,  7 

Atatiirk,  Kemal  {see  a&oKemal,  Mustafa), 
xxv,  31-39;  background  of,  31-32, 
124;  goals  of,  xxvi,  308;  in  Grand 
National  Assembly,  34;  language 
reform  under,  93-95;  military  career 


432 


Index 


of,  30,  31,  34,  308;  nationalism  of,  4; 
nationalist  movement  of,  33;  as  presi- 
dent, xxvi,  36-39 

Atatiirk  administration,  xxvi;  armed 
forces  under,  272;  elite  under,  xxv;  for- 
eign policy  of,  39;  social  reforms 
under,  xxv,  36-39,  74-75;  transporta- 
tion under,  214 

Atatiirk  Dam,  68,  181-82,  198;  financing 
for,  203-4 

Ataturkism.  SaeKemalism 

Attalid  Dynasty,  1 0 

Australia:  petroleum  concessions  in,  201 
Austria:  in  Holy  League,  22;  Ottoman 
wars  with,  22,  23;  territory  acquired 
by,  22,  25,  28;  Turkish  immigrants  in, 
90 

automobile  industry,  208-9,  223 
Aydinlik,  283 

Azerbaijan:  borders  with,  76;  coup  d'etat 
in,  288;  economic  ties  with,  229;  refu- 
gees from,  287;  relations  with,  xxxv, 
202,  236,  287-88,  314;  war  of,  with 
Armenia,  66 

Azov,  22 


Bab-i  Ali  (Sublime  Porte),  20 
Baghdad  Pact  members  of,  48 
balance  of  payments,  68,  151,  223-26; 

crises  in,  xxix,  150, 153, 154, 173,  223- 

24;  deficit,  58 
balance  of  trade,  220;  agriculture  and, 

178;  in  Ottoman  Empire, 21 
Baldwin  of  Flanders,  Count,  15 
Balkan  Pact,  39 

Balkans,  317-18;  immigrants  from,  89; 
Ottoman  conquest  of,  17,  21;  relations 
with,  305;  Russian  position  in,  25 

Balkan  War,  First  (1912-13),  28,  32,  308, 
317,  339 

Balkan  War,  Second  (1913),  28,  32,  308, 

317,  339 
banking,  151,210-14 
banks:  commercial,  212;  development, 

212;  foreign,  212,  213;  state-owned, 

212,213 
Bati  Raman  oil  fields,  199 
Battle  of  Kosovo  (1389),  17 
Battle  of  Lepanto  (1571),  21-22 
Battle  of  Manzikert  (1071),  14,  110 
Battle  of  Mohacs,  21 


Battle  of  Navarino  (1827),  23 

Bayar,  Celal,  40;  as  president,  41;  as 

prime  minister,  40 
Bayar,  Hikmet,  336 
BayezidI,  17 

Baykal,  Deniz,  xxxviii,  270 

Belgium:  Turkish  immigrants  in,  90 

Belgrade:  conquered  by  Ottomans,  20 

Bessarabia:  ceded  to  Russia,  25 

Bilkent  University,  141 

Bir,  Cevik,  337 

Birand,  Mehmet  Ali,  364 

Birlik  ve  Baris.  See  Unity  and  Peace  party 

birth  control  {see  also  family  planning), 

90-91,92 
Black  Sea:  fishing  in,  193 
Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation 

project,  229 
Black  Sea  region,  78-81;  oil  exploration 
in,  198;  population  density  in,  87; 
rainfall  in,  86, 180;  villages  in,  131 
Bogazkoy.  SeeHattusas 
Bolshevik  Revolution  (1917),  31 
borders,  76-77;  with  Iraq,  36,  76;  with 

Soviet  Union,  76,  312 
border  problems:  with  Syria,  76-77 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina:  under  Austrian 
rule,  25,  28;  civil  war  in,  289-90,  317- 
18;  immigrants  from,  89-90;  relations 
with,  317;  United  Nations  peacekeep- 
ing forces  in,  305,  317,  337 
Bosporus,  81 

Britain:  in  Baghdad  Pact,  48;  in  Crimean 
War,  25;  occupation  of  Egypt  by,  25; 
occupation  of  Turkey  by,  32,  308;  rela- 
tions with,  25;  territory  acquired  by, 
33;  in  World  War  I,  30 

British  Petroleum,  198,  201 

Buda:  conquered,  21 

budget  deficit,  174,  224;  as  percentage  of 
gross  domestic  product,  158,  175 

Bulac,Ali,  119 

Bulgaria:  borders  with,  76;  conquest  of, 
by  Ottomans,  17;  economic  ties  with, 
229,  287;  in  First  Balkan  War,  28; 
immigrants  from,  89,  289,  318; 
imports  from,  202,  203;  independence 
declared  by,  28;  military  relations 
with,  318,  343;  under  Ottoman  rule, 
25;  relations  with,  66,  289,  318;  union 
of  Rumelia  with,  26 

Bureau  of  the  Press  Directorate,  284 


433 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Burhan,  Halis,  340 

Bursa:  population  of,  88 

Bush,  George,  206,  300,  301 

business  associations,  276-77 

Byzantine  civilization,  3 

Byzantine  Empire,  10-11;  Armenia 

annexed  by,  14;  end  of,  19, 110 
Byzantium:  founded,  9;  as  Constantine's 

capital,  10 


Caglayangil,  Ihsan  Sabri:  as  acting  presi- 
dent, 52-53 
caliph,  19, 110 

caliphate,  111;  abolished,  74, 105,  116 
Callaghan,  James,  53 
Calp,  Necdet,  62,  256,  265 
capital  account,  225 
Capital  Markets  Board,  213 
Capital  Markets  Law  (1982),  213 
Carter,  Jimmy,  56 
Catalhuyiik,  6 

Catholic  Church,  Roman.  5ee  Roman 

Catholic  Church 
Caucasus:  ceded  to  Russia,  25;  economic 

ties  with,  229,  287;  ethnic  groups 

from,  102;  under  Ottoman  Empire, 

21;  relations  with,  201,  287 
Cemal  Pasha,  Ahmet,  28;  exile  of,  31 
cement,  208 

Censor's  Board  on  Obscene  Publica- 
tions, 283 

censorship,  xxix,  234,  257,  361 

census:  of  1927,  86;  of  1965,  120,  121;  of 
1990,  86,  87,  88 

Center  for  Selection  and  Placement  of 
Students,  142 

CENTO.  See  Central  Treaty  Organization 

Central  Asia:  construction  in,  209;  eco- 
nomic ties  with,  229,  287;  relations 
with,  66,  201,  236,  287,  288-89;  trade 
with,  152;  Turks  in,  96,  97 

Central  Bank  of  Turkey,  210-12;  quar- 
terly reporting  system  in,  212;  disputes 
of,  with  Ciller,  157-58;  role  of,  169, 
212 

Central  Planning  Organization,  172 
Central  Treaty  Organization  (CENTO), 
48 

CFE.  See  Conventional  Forces  in  Europe 

Treaty 
chemical  industry,  208 


children:  health  problems  of,  177 
CHP.  See  Republican  People's  Party 
Christianity  (see  also  under  individual 

denominations):  conversion  to,  14 
Christians:  number  of,  120, 121 
Ciller,  Tansu:  disputes  of,  with  Central 

Bank,  157-58;  as  prime  minister, 

xxxvi,  xxxviii,  6,  68,  235,  247,  265 
Ciller  administration:  cabinet  in,  247; 

economy  under,  xxxviii-xxxix,  180 
Cilician  Gates  (Giilek  Bogazi),  83 
Cimmerians,  7 
Cindoruk,  Husamettin,  263 
Circassians,  102,  282 

CIS.  See  Commonwealth  of  Independent 
States 

civic  associations:  restrictions  on,  271 
civil  code  of  1926,  132;  divorce  under, 

134-35;  origins  of,  248 
civil  rights,  38,  233,  262 
civil  service,  252-53;  purged,  xxix;  salary 

in,  157 
Clerides,  Glafcos,  54 

climate,  84-86,  175;  in  Aegean  region, 
81;  in  Anatolian  plateau,  83;  precipita- 
tion, 81,  83,  86,  175,  180-81;  tempera- 
ture, 83,  86 

Clinton,  William  J.,  301,  351 

CNU.  See  Committee  of  National  Unity 

coal,  202;  electricity  from,  203;  imports, 
202-3;  production,  202 

Coast  Guard,  365,  370 

coastline,  81 

Cold  War,  312 

Committee  of  National  Unity  (CNU), 
42-44 

Committee  of  Union  and  Progress 
( CUP) .  See  Young  Turks 

Commonwealth  of  Independent  States 
(CIS):  relations  with,  286-87 

communications.  See  telecommunica- 
tions 

Confederation  of  Revolutionary  Trade 
Unions  of  Turkey  (Tiirkiye  Devrimci 
Isci  Sendikalari  Konfederasyonu — 
DISK),  xxviii,  164,  275;  members  of, 
164,  165,  275;  suspended,  275 

Confederation  of  Turkish  Just  Workers' 
Unions  (Tiirkiye  Hak  Isci  Sendikalari 
Konfederasyonu — Hak-Is),  164;  mem- 
bers of,  164,  165;  political  affiliations 
of,  165 


434 


Index 


Confederation  of  Turkish  Nationalist 
Workers'  Unions  (Turkiye  Milliyetci 
Isci  Sendikalan  Konfederasyonu — 
MISK),  164;  members  of,  165;  political 
affiliations  of,  165 

Confederation  of  Turkish  Trade  Unions 
(Turkiye  Isci  Sendikalan  Konfederas- 
yonu—Turk-Is) ,  164-65,  275,  276; 
founded,  274 

Conference  on  International  Organiza- 
tion (1945),  40 

Congress  of  Berlin  (1878),  25 

Constantine,  10 

Constantinople,  11;  capture  of,  19,  111 

constituent  assembly  (1961),  43 

Constitutional  Court,  249;  appointment 
to,  245 

constitution  of  1876,  26 

constitution  of  1924,  xxvi,  38 

constitution  of  1961,  xxvi,  xxviii,  5,  43, 
237;  economic  planning  under,  172 

constitution  of  1982,  xxvi,  237-40; 
amendments  to,  xxxvii,  64,  240; 
approved,  62,  236,  237;  armed  forces 
under,  321-22;  associations  under, 
271;  bill  of  rights,  238;  Council  of  Min- 
isters under,  238,  247-48;  drafted, 
xxix,  62,  236,  237;  education  under, 
239,  278;  electoral  system  under,  240- 
41;  individual  rights  under,  237,  238, 
271;  labor  unions  under,  165-66,  239, 
275,  311;  language  under,  73,  96; 
political  activity  under,  311;  political 
parties  under,  xxix,  237,  240;  presi- 
dent under,  xxix,  5,  237,  238,  244-47; 
prime  minister  under,  xxix,  238,  247; 
privacy  under,  372;  religion  under, 
239,  278;  secularism  under,  239;  uni- 
versities under,  311 

Construcciones  Aeronauticas,  S.A.,  353 

construction,  209-10;  employment  in, 
161;  in  foreign  countries,  209 

Consultative  Assembly,  61,  237;  members 
of,  237 

contraception.  See  birth  control;  family 
planning 

Conventional  Forces  in  Europe  (CFE) 

Treaty  (1990),  314,337 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  319 
corruption:  in  government,  64 
cotton,  180,  206;  production  of,  82,  83, 

189 


Council  of  Europe,  256,  372;  member- 
ship in,  xxxii,  xxxvii,  48,  296 

Council  of  Higher  Education  (Yuksek 
Ogretim  Kurumu— YOK),  141-42, 
274;  appointment  to,  245 

Council  of  Ministers,  142,  238,  242,  247, 
248,  322 

Council  of  State,  241,  249-50;  appoint- 
ment to,  245,  249 

coup  d'etat  of  1909,  28,  32,  308 

coup  d'etat  of  1913,  28 

coup  d'etat  of  1960,  xxvii,  4-5,  42,  262, 
272,  274,  311,  332;  economic  policies 
of,  xxvii;  social  reforms  under,  xxvii 

coup  d'etat  of  1971 ,  xxvii,  272,  31 1 

coup  d'etat  of  1980,  xxvii,  xxix,  5,  60, 
125,  263,  272,  274,  311,  332;  civil 
rights  under,  233;  economic  policies 
of,  xxvii;  international  reaction  to,  61, 
296;  labor  unions  under,  165;  political 
parties  under,  233,  278;  social  reforms 
under,  xxvii,  254 

Court  of  Appeals,  241,  249 

Court  of  Cassation.  See  Court  of  Appeals 

Court  of  Jurisdictional  Disputes,  249 

courts:  administrative,  248,  249-50; 
appellate,  249;  civil,  249;  criminal, 
249;  judicial,  248,  249;  military,  248, 
250,  257,  369 

courts,  seriat :  closed,  74 

court  system,  248-49,  366;  cases  in,  370; 
defendants  in,  368;  lawyers  in,  368 

Crete:  rebellion  on,  27 

crime,  366-74 

Crimea:  under  Ottoman  Empire,  21 

Crimean  Tartars,  97 

Crimean  War  (1854-56),  25 

Criminal  Code  of  1926,  367 

criminal  justice  system  (see  also  courts; 

judicial  system):  procedure  in,  367-69 
Criminal  Trials  Procedure  Law  (1992), 

367-68 

Croatia:  ceded  to  Austria,  22 
Croesus,  9 
Crusades,  15,  17 
Cukur  Ova,  82 

Cukurova  Electrical  Company,  203 

Cukurova  Group,  213 

culture:  elite,  74,  133;  popular,  74,  133 

Cumhuriyet,  284 

Cumhuriyet  Halk  Partisi.  See  Republican 
People's  Party 


435 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


CUP.  See  Young  Turks 

currency:  convertibility  of,  168;  decline 
in,  151;  devaluation  of,  xxx,  58,  68, 
153,  154,  156;  floating  of,  xxx,  168; 
weakness  of,  326 

current  account:  deficits,  153,  157,  225; 
stabilized,  155;  surplus,  225,  226 

customs:  agents,  370;  tariffs,  168, 168 

Cyprus,  318-19;  conflict  with  Greece 
over,  xxxii,  48,  53-54,  66,  236,  294, 
296-97,  318-19;  coup  d'etat  of  1974, 
53;  immigrants  from,  89;  invasion  of, 
299-300,  318-19,  325,  349;  partition 
of,  54 

Cyprus  Turkish  Peace  Force,  337 

Dalmatia,  22 

Dardanelles  Strait,  81 

Dark  Age  (Aegean),  9 

debt,  151,  153,  157;  under  Ecevit,  58; 
under  Inonii  and  Menderes,  43;  inter- 
est payments  on,  225;  as  percentage  of 
gross  domestic  product,  153,  157; 
short-term,  225-26 

debt  restructuring,  58 

debt  servicing,  225 

defense  industry,  domestic,  306,  351-54 
Defense  Industry  Development  and  Sup- 
port Administration,  351-52 
Defense  Industry  Support  Fund,  174, 
325, 352 

defense  spending,  229,  325-27;  budget, 
325,  326;  under  Demirel,  45;  increase 
in,  159 

Demirel,  Suleyman:  arrested,  61;  back- 
ground of,  44;  ban  on  political  activi- 
ties of,  xxix,  258;  as  deputy,  264; 
overthrown,  xxix;  political  activities  of, 
xxxiii,  67,  242,  256,  258,  262-63,  263; 
political  comeback  of,  258-59;  as  pres- 
ident, 5-6,  68,  235,  244,  261,  264-65; 
as  prime  minister,  xxxiv,  5,  44,  261; 
resignation  of,  49;  rivalry  of,  with 
Ozal,  259,  267 

Demirel  administration,  5,  264;  economy 
under,  58-59,  154,  180;  human  rights 
under,  265 

democracy:  conceptions  of,  254;  transi- 
tion to,  240,  241-53 

Democracy  Party  (Demokrasi  Partisi — 
DEP),  266,  281 


Demokrasi  Partisi.  See  Democracy  Party 
Democratic  Left  Party  (Demokratik  Sol 
Partisi— DSP) ,  xxxiii,  63,  258,  269;  in 
elections  of  1987,  258;  in  elections  of 
1991,  66-67 
Democratic  Party:  in  elections  of  1973, 

50;  formed,  49 
democratization,  xxxiii,  xxxviii,  40 
Democrat  Party  (Demokrat  Parti — DP) 
(see  abo Justice  Party),  xxvii,  253;  con- 
stituency of,  269;  economic  planning 
under,  172;  in  elections  of  1946,  41;  in 
elections  of  1950,  4,  41;  in  elections  of 
1954,  41;  founded,  40,  262;  outlawed, 
5;  platform  of,  262,  269,  277;  religious 
education  under,  118 
Demokrat  Parti.  See  Democrat  Party 
Demokratik  Sol  Partisi.  See  Democratic 
Left  Party 

demonstrations.  See  political  demonstra- 
tions 

Denizcilik  Bankasi.  See  Maritime  Bank 

Deniz  Nakliyati,  217 

Denktas,  Rauf,  54 

DEP.  See  Democracy  Party 

dervishes  (Mevlevi  Sufi  brotherhood). 

See  Sufi  brotherhoods,  Mevlevi 
Development  Bank,  212 
Development  Plan  for  1990-95, 173 
Devlet  Su  Isleri.  See  General  Directorate 

of  State  Hydraulic  Works 
Devrimci  Sol.  See  Revolutionary  Left 

Party 

Dev  Sol.  See  Revolutionary  Left  Party 
Dicle,  Hatip,  281 
Diocletian,  10 

DISK.  See  Confederation  of  Revolution- 
ary Trade  Unions  of  Turkey 

divorce,  134-35;  laws  of,  132, 134-35 

Dogru  Yol  Partisi.  See  True  Path  Party 

Dogukaradeniz  Daglan.  See  Pontus 
Mountains 

Donme  people,  102 

Dorians,  9;  invasion  by,  of  Greece,  7 

DP.  See  Democrat  Party 

dress:  secularization  of,  36;  of  women, 
120,  137-38 

drug  trafficking,  362,  370-71;  profits  for, 
371;  punishment  for,  368 

DSL  See  General  Directorate  of  State 
Hydraulic  Works 

DSP.  See  Democratic  Left  Party 


436 


Index 


DYP.  SeeTrxxe  Path  Party 

earthquakes,  77 

eastern  highlands,  78,  84 

Eastern  Question,  23 

EC.  See  European  Community 

Ecevit,  Biilent,  55;  arrested,  61;  ban  on 
political  activities  of,  xxix,  258;  politi- 
cal activities  of,  xxxiii,  5,  45,  49,  242, 
258,  269;  as  prime  minister,  5;  resigna- 
tion of,  52 

Ecevit  administration,  52 

Ecevit,  Rahsan,  63 

economic  austerity  plans,  xxix,  61,  150, 
153,  158,  226;  unemployment  under, 
161 

Economic  Cooperation  Organization, 
288 

economic  crises:  in  1970s,  153-54 

economic  depression,  xxviii,  168 

economic  development,  152-54,  168 

economic  growth,  152;  under  develop- 
ment plans,  173 

economic  integration,  226-29;  with 
Europe,  227 

economic  planning  (see  also  under  indi- 
vidual plans) ,  149,  150;  under  constitu- 
tion of  1961,  172;  for  development, 
150,  172-73;  five-year  plans,  172-73 

economic  policy:  liberal,  149;  under  mil- 
itary rule,  xxvii,  xxix 

economic  problems:  from  Persian  Gulf 
War,  149, 151,  152,  156-57,  315 

economic  protectionism,  xxx 

economic  reform:  advocated  by  Welfare 
Party,  xxxii;  under  military  rule,  43; 
under  Ozal,  xxx,  xxxiii,  150-51,  154- 
56,  224 

economic  stabilization  program,  58,  68; 
under  Demirel,  58-59;  under  Ozal, 
61-62 

economic  ties:  with  Europe,  151-52 
economy,  56-59;  under  Ciller,  xxxviii- 
xxxix;  informal,  150,  159;  long-term 
prospects,  151;  under  Menderes,  4;  of 
Ottoman  Empire,  25-26,  27;  under 
Ozal,  xxx;  planning  of,  38;  role  of  gov- 
ernment in,  38,  167-75;  structure  of, 
159;  in  War  of  Independence,  152;  in 
World  War  I,  152 
Ecumenical  Patriarchate  of  Constantino- 


ple, 122-23 

Edict  of  Milan  (313),  11 

education  (see  also  schools),  139-43; 
access  to,  xxviii;  adult,  142;  under  con- 
stitution of  1982,  239;  equivalency 
program,  143;  expansion  of,  159;  gov- 
ernment spending  on,  325;  middle- 
school,  140;  of  middle  class,  126;  post- 
secondary,  140-42;  preschool,  139; 
primary,  139-40;  religious,  74,  105, 
118, 139,  140,  278;  secondary,  140;  sec- 
ular, 74;  and  social  advancement,  142; 
special,  142;  stages  of,  139;  vocational, 
140, 143;  of  women,  139, 161 

Egypt:  invasion  of  Syria  by,  23;  occupied 
by  Britain,  25;  under  Ottoman 
Empire,  21,  25;  petroleum  conces- 
sions in,  201;  relations  with,  294;  trade 
with,  294-95,  353 

Eisenhower  Doctrine  (1957),  299 

elections:  of  1946,  41;  of  1950,  xxvii,  4, 
41;  of  1954,  41;  of  1961,  43;  of  1969, 
46;  of  1973,  50;  of  1977,  51;  of  1979, 
52;  of  1980,  28;  of  1983,  xxix,  5,  63, 
233,  255;  of  1984,  257;  of  1986,  63,  64; 
of  1987,  xxxiii,  5,  258,  264,  267;  of 
1989,  64,  259;  of  1991,  xxxiv,  66-67, 
242,  260,  266;  of  1994,  261-62,  268 

Electoral  Law  (1983),  241 

electoral  system,  240-41 

electric  power:  demand  for,  197,  203, 
204;  distribution  of,  xxxi;  generation, 
203;  imports  of,  203;  privatization  of, 
171;  in  rural  areas,  203;  sources  of, 
203 

elite,  business,  124,  125-26;  competition 
of,  with  political  elite,  124;  members 
of,  125;  in  villages,  131 

elite,  military,  254 

elite,  political,  254;  acceptance  into,  124; 
factions  in,  125;  competition  of,  with 
business  class,  124;  competition  of, 
with  Islamic  activists,  235;  social  struc- 
ture of,  75, 124 

elite,  professional,  125 

elite  class,  xxxviii;  acceptance  into,  20; 
under  Atatiirk,  xxv;  culture  of,  74, 
133;  education  of,  74;  social  structure 
of,  124-25;  in  towns,  128;  in  urban 
areas,  125,  126;  in  villages,  131; 
women,  139 

employers'  associations,  276-77 


437 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


employment:  in  agriculture,  159,  161;  in 
construction,  161;  in  defense  industry, 
352;  in  industry,  127,  161,  196,  352;  of 
lower  class,  12V;  in  manufacturing, 
161,  206;  in  services  sector,  162;  in 
state  enterprises,  169;  in  urban  areas, 
159-61, 162;  of  women,  138 
End  of  Laissez-Faire,  The  (Keynes),  168 
energy  (see  also  electric  power;  see  also 
under  individual  energy  sources),  197- 
204 

Enver  Pasha,  28;  death  of,  31;  exile  of,  31 
Erbakan,  Necmettin,  xxviii,  xxxi,  50,  64, 

257,  267;  as  deputy  prime  minister,  51; 

political  activities  of,  268;  prosecuted, 

61,268,278 
Erdogan,  Tayyip,  268 
Eregli  Iron  and  Steelworks,  206,  207; 

privatization  of,  172 
Erim,  Nihat:  as  prime  minister,  49 
Erkman,  Hayrettin,  60 
Ertugrul,  17 

Eskisehir:  population  of,  88 

etatism,  4,  38,  153,  168-69;  and  trade 
policy,  220 

ethnic  conflict,  xxx-xxxi 

ethnic  groups  (see  also  under  individual 
groups),  95-105;  distribution  of,  xxix, 
4;  marriage  between,  15,  102 

Etibank,  204,  205,  208 

EU.  See  European  Union 

Euphrates  River,  84 

Europe:  economic  ties  with,  151-52,  227; 
guest  workers  in,  xxviii,  90,  152;  immi- 
grants in,  152;  Ottoman  relations  with, 
21,  149;  political  intervention  in  Otto- 
man Empire  by,  21;  trade  with,  226, 
227 

Europe,  Eastern,  66 

European  Community  (EC):  Common 
Agricultural  Policy,  227;  desire  to  join, 
48,  295;  relations  with,  256;  trade  with, 
227-28 

European  Community-Turkey  Associa- 
tion Council,  228 

European  Recovery  Program  (Marshall 
Plan),  48,  182 

European  Union  (EU) ,  295-98;  in  cus- 
toms union  of,  xxxvii;  desire  to  join, 
xxx,  xxxi,  xxxii-xxxiii,  48,  152,  223, 
228,  236,  295-97;  exports  to,  176,  206; 
reluctance  of,  to  admit  Turkey,  87 


Evren,  Kenan:  coup  d'etat  by,  5;  as  presi- 
dent, xxix,  5,  233,  256,  279,  311 
exchange  rate,  220;  flexible,  154;  over- 
valued, 157 
Exclusive  Economic  Zone,  319,  365 
Execution  of  Sentences  Act  (1986),  367 
Export  Credit  Bank  of  Turkey  (Tiirkiye 

Ihracat  Kredi  Bankasi) ,  212 
exports  (see  also  under  individual  prod- 
ucts): of  cement,  208;  of  chemicals, 
208;  of  crops,  176,  187,  220;  decline 
in,  58,  151,  153;  to  European  Union, 
176,  206;  of  food,  151,  206;  growth  of, 
xxxix,  68,  154,  220,  224;  of  iron  and 
steel,  207;  of  livestock,  176;  of  manu- 
factures, 156;  to  Middle  East,  176,  226, 
294;  of  minerals,  204,  220;  as  percent- 
age of  gross  national  product,  220; 
promotion  of,  154;  subsidies  for,  xxx; 
of  textiles,  206;  to  United  States,  176, 
206;  value  of,  220-22 


families  (see  also  households):  functions 
of,  129-30;  of  guest  workers,  137;  laws 
affecting,  36, 132 

families,  extended,  129, 131, 135-37 

families,  nuclear,  129 

family  planning:  services,  91 

farmers:  subsistence,  187;  taxes  on,  175 

farming  (see  also  agriculture),  175;  crop- 
ping patterns,  187-91 

farms:  distribution  of,  175,  185-86; 
expansion  of,  182-84;  185;  state  sup- 
port for,  170 

Federal  Republic  of  Germany.  See  Ger- 
many, Federal  Republic  of 

Fethullahci  tarikat,  279 

finance,  159 

fishing,  131,  176,  193-94 

FMC  Corporation,  352 

Fodder  Industry  (Yem  Sanayili),  179 

food:  export  of,  151,  206;  import  of, 
177-78;  production,  176;  self-suffi- 
ciency in,  151,  175 

Ford,  Gerald,  56 

foreign  assistance:  from  Germany,  326; 

from  Kuwait,  325;  from  OECD,  224; 

from  Saudi  Arabia,  325;  from  United 

Arab  Emirates,  325;  from  the  United 

States,  325,  326 
foreign  borrowing,  225 


438 


Index 


foreign  currency:  reserves,  158 
foreign  economic  relations,  220-29 
foreign  exchange,  220;  shortages  of, 

xxviii,  58,  223 
foreign  investment,  151,  225;  encour- 
aged, 68;  growth  of,  155;  in  mining, 
205 

foreign  policy,  xxxii,  235;  under  Atatiirk, 
39;  and  Kurdish  problem,  xxxvi-xxxvii 

foreign  relations,  285-301;  with  Afghani- 
stan, 39;  with  Albania,  66,  317;  with 
Armenia,  287,  314;  under  Atatiirk,  39; 
with  Azerbaijan,  xxxv,  202,  236,  287- 
88,  314;  with  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
317;  with  Britain,  25;  with  Bulgaria, 
66,  289,  318;  with  Central  Asia,  66, 
201,  236,  287,  288-89;  with  Egypt,  294; 
with  Georgia,  287,  314;  with  Greece, 
xxxii,  55,  66,  298;  with  Hungary,  289; 
with  Iran,  xxxiii,  39,  201,  292-93,  306, 
316-17;  with  Iraq,  xxxiii,  39,  294,  306; 
with  Israel,  294;  with  Kazakhstan,  xxxv, 
288;  with  Kyrgyzstan,  xxxv,  288;  with 
Macedonia,  66,  317;  with  Romania, 
289;  with  Russia,  25,  286;  with  Soviet 
Union,  39;  with  Syria,  282,  292,  293- 
94,  306,  316;  with  Tajikistan,  288;  with 
Turkmenistan,  xxxv,  288;  with 
Ukraine,  343;  with  the  United  States, 
47,  235,  298-301;  with  Uzbekistan, 
xxxv,  288 

forestry,  131,  176,  193;  budget  for,  251 
Fourteen  Points,  32 

France:  anti-immigrant  stance  of,  163;  in 
Crimean  War,  25;  guest  workers  in, 
162,  163;  military  training  by,  339; 
occupation  of  Turkey  by,  32,  308; 
Ottoman  trade  with,  21;  territory 
acquired  by,  25,  33;  Turkish  immi- 
grants in,  90,  163;  withdrawal  of,  34;  in 
World  War  I,  30 

Freedom  and  Labor  Party  (OZEP) ,  269 

fruit,  83,  180;  citrus,  81 

FYROM.  See  Macedonia,  Former  Yugo- 
slav Republic  of 

Gallipoli,  battle  of,  xxv,  30,  308 
GAP.  See  Southeast  Anatolia  Project 
gas,  natural,  202;  imports  of,  202;  pipe- 
lines, 202,  286;  reserves,  198 
GATT.  See  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs 


and  Trade 
Gaziantep:  population  of,  88 
gazis.  amirates  of,  15;  conquests  of,  4,  14, 

110;  role  of,  13,  17 
GDP.  See  gross  domestic  product 
gendarmerie,  360,  361,  362-65; 

deployed  against  Kurdish  insurgents, 

339;  functions  of,  360,  362,  364,  370 
Gendarmerie  Schools  Command,  364 
General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade 

(GATT) ,  223 
General  Directorate  of  Prisons  and 

Houses  of  Detention,  373 
General  Directorate  of  State  Hydraulic 

Works  (Devlet  Su  Isleri— DSI),  181, 

203 

General  Dynamics,  194,  340,  352 

General  Electric,  340,  352 

General  Management  for  Trade  in 
Tobacco,  Tobacco  Products,  and  Alco- 
holic Spirits  (Tutiin  Mamulleri,  Tuz  ve 
Alkol  Isletmeleri  Genel  Miidurlugu — 
TEKEL):  state  control  of,  171 

General  Motors,  209 

General  Staff,  142,  323;  appointment  to, 
245;  chief  of,  311,  322,323 

geography,  75-86;  of  Anatolia,  75;  loca- 
tion, 75 

geology,  77-78;  of  Anatolian  Plateau,  83 

Georgia:  borders  with,  76;  economic  ties 
with,  229,  287;  relations  with,  287,  314 

Georgians,  102,  282;  distribution  of,  102 

geostrategic  situation,  201-2 

Germany:  military  training  by,  27;  Otto- 
man treaty  with,  29;  relations  of,  with 
Ottomans,  27,  28-29;  in  World  War  I, 
xxv 

Germany,  Federal  Republic  of  (West 
Germany):  emigration  to,  101;  finan- 
cial aid  from,  326;  guest  workers  in, 
90,  162,  163;  joint  ventures  with,  306; 
Kurdish  terrorism  in,  355;  materiel 
from,  343,  344,  353,  365;  technical 
assistance  from,  285;  tourists  from, 
219;  trade  with,  222 

GNP.  See  gross  national  product 

Gokalp,  Ziya,  27,  93 

Gokchek,  Melih,  268 

Gordium,  7 

Gortiirk  Empire,  13 

gossip  groups,  130 

government,  241-53;  corruption  in,  64; 


439 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


economic  role  of,  167-75;  interven- 
tion in  agriculture,  179;  population 
policies  of,  90-92;  powers  of,  238;  role 
of,  237-38 

government,  local,  250-52;  budgets  for, 
174;  revenues,  174-75 

government,  provincial,  250-52 

government  budget,  173-75;  for 
defense,  325;  for  education,  325 

Government  Employees'  Retirement 
Fund,  144 

government  securities,  214 

government  spending,  157;  on  defense, 
325;  on  infrastructure,  167;  reduction 
in,  155,  158 

governors,  250-51 

Grand  National  Assembly,  xxvii;  under 
constitution  of  1924,  38;  convened, 
34;  dissolved,  254;  reforms  under,  35 

Gray  Wolves,  47,  59 

Great  Depression,  168 

Greece:  in  Balkan  Pact,  39;  borders  with, 
76;  conflicts  with,  xxxii,  48,  53-54,  55- 
56,  236,  296-98,  337,  365;  driven  from 
Turkey,  34-35;  economic  ties  with, 
229;  in  First  Balkan  War,  28;  invasion 
of,  by  Dorians,  7;  occupation  of  Tur- 
key by,  32,  33,  34,  308;  Ottoman  war 
with,  27;  population  exchange  with, 
76,  89,  103;  relations  with,  xxxii,  55, 
66,  298;  as  security  threat,  314;  tourists 
from,  219;  United  States  military  assis- 
tance to,  350 

Greek  Catholics,  1 23 

Greek  Cypriot  National  Guard,  318-19 

Greek  Orthodox  Church,  19,  120,  122, 
373 

Greeks,  9-10,  103,  282;  emigration  of, 
153;  in  Ottoman  bureaucracy,  20;  in 
population  exchange,  76,  89,  103 

Greek  War  of  Independence  (1821-32), 
23 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP):  growth 
rate,  xxx 

gross  domestic  product  fractions:  agri- 
culture, 159,  176;  budget  deficit,  158, 
175;  current  account  deficit,  157; 
debt,  153,  157;  defense  budget,  325; 
education  budget,  325;  industry,  159, 
194;  mining,  204;  services  sector,  159 

gross  national  product  (GNP):  decline 
in,  155-56;  defense  spending  as  per- 


centage of,  326-27;  exports  as  per- 
centage of,  220;  growth  of,  156; 
minerals  as  percentage  of,  222;  taxes 
as  percentage  of,  174;  textiles  as  per- 
centage of,  222;  trade  as  percentage 
of,  220,  222 

guest  workers,  162,  271,  296;  families  of, 
137;  hostility  toward,  162-63,  296; 
number  of,  162,  163;  in  Persian  Gulf 
states,  90,  163;  remittances  from,  163, 
224-25;  in  Western  Europe,  xxviii,  90, 
152,162,163 

Giilek  Bogazi.  See  Cilician  Gates 

Gunaydm,  284 

Giineydogu  Anadolu  Projesi.  See  South- 
east Anatolia  Project 
Giines,  Turan,  53,  54 
Giirler,  Faruk,  49 

Gursel,  Cemal,  42,  43;  death  of,  45;  as 
president,  44 

HADEP.  See  People's  Democracy  Party 
Hagia  Sophia:  in  Byzantine  Empire,  11; 

under  Ottomans,  19;  under  Turks,  117 
Hak-Is.  See  Confederation  of  Turkish  Just 

Workers'  Unions 
Halk  Bank:  state  control  of,  171 
Halkci  Partisi.  See  Populist  Party 
Halkin  Demokrasi  Partisi.  See  People's 

Democracy  Party 
Halkin  Emek  Partisi.  See  People's  Labor 

Party 

Hatay  Province:  Arabs  in,  101;  Syria's 
claims  to,  293,  316 

Hattusas  (Bogazkoy):  archaeological 
research  at,  6;  burned,  7 

Havas  airport  company,  171, 172 

health,  143-44;  and  malnutrition,  177 

health  care:  availability  of,  143;  expan- 
sion of,  159;  military,  334 

health  care  professionals:  ratio  of,  to 
patients,  144;  salaries  of,  143^14 

health  facilities,  144 

Hearth  of  Intellectuals,  119 

Hellenistic  civilization,  3 

Helsinki  Watch,  296 

HEP.  See  People's  Labor  Party 

higher  education  law  (1981),  141 

High  Gate.  5^Bab-i  Ali 

High  Planning  Council,  172 

Hisarlik,  6 


440 


Index 


Hittite  Empire,  7 

Hittites,  3,  6-7;  as  proto-Turks,  4 

Hisballah-Contra,  360 

Holy  League:  Ottoman  war  with,  22 

Homer,  6 

households  (see  also  families):  activities 

of,  130;  members  of,  130 
housing:  shortage,  209-10;  in  urban 

areas,  209-10 
HP.  See  Populist  Party 
human  rights:  abuses,  xxxii,  xxxvii,  61, 

152,  228,  236,  256,  265,  296,  300,  371; 

advocacy  groups,  257,  283,  296,  372 
Human  Rights  Association,  296,  372 
Human  Rights  Foundation,  372 
Hungary:  ceded  to  Austria,  22;  relations 

with,  289 
Hurriyet,  284 

Husayn  ibn  Ali,  Sharif,  31 
hydroelectric  power  (see  also  electric 

power;  energy),  68,  181,  197,  214; 

electricity  from,  203;  potential,  198 
Hyundai,  209 

Iconium.  SeeKonya 
Iliad  (Homer),  6 
Ilion,  6 
Ilium,  6 

Iller  Bankasi.  ^Municipalities  Bank 
liter,  Aydin,  363 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 

immigrants:  in  Europe,  152 

immigration,  88;  from  Russia,  102 

imports,  xxviii;  of  food,  177-78;  increase 
in,  xxxix,  154,  220,  224;  liberalization 
of,  xxx;  of  petroleum,  198,  222 

import-substitution  industrialization , 
xxviii,  xxx,  150,  154,  168,  194;  under 
economic  planning,  173;  end  of,  154 

income:  from  agriculture,  176 

income  distribution,  150,  177 

individual  rights,  371-73;  under  consti- 
tution of  1982,  237,  238,  271 

industrial  development,  150,  169-70 

industrial  growth,  153,  194 

industrialization,  97,  125,  176 

industrial  policy,  196-97 

industry,  149,  175, 194-210;  in  Black  Sea 
area,  81;  employment  in,  161,  196; 
encouragement  of,  167;  expansion  of, 
271;  labor  unions  in,  163;  under  Ozal, 


196;  as  percentage  of  gross  domestic 
product,  159,  194;  privatization  of,  197 
infant  mortality,  144 

inflation,  158,  224;  under  economic 
planning,  173;  under  Inonii  and  Men- 
deres,  43;  in  1970s,  xxviii,  5,  56,  154; 
in  1980s,  xxx,  61,  68,  151;  in  1990s, 
xxxix,  156, 157, 169 

infrastructure:  improvement  of,  68-69, 
194;  investment  in,  167;  transporta- 
tion, 68 

inheritance:  laws  of,  132 

Inonii,  Erdal,  xxxiv,  63,  67,  256,  265,  269 

Inonii,  Ismet  (see  also  Ismet  Pasha),  xxvii, 
xxxiv,  4,  308;  as  deputy  prime  minister, 
261;  as  president,  40;  as  prime  minis- 
ter, 44 

Inonii  administration,  5;  economy 

under,  43 
Interbank,  213 

interest:  payments,  155;  rates,  xxx,  68, 
154 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF),  58, 
153;  aid  from,  300 

investment:  in  agriculture,  176;  under 
development  plans,  173;  foreign,  173 

Iran,  316-17;  in  Baghdad  Pact,  48;  bor- 
ders with,  76,  290;  exports  to,  151, 
152, 192,  226,  227,  294;  refugees  from, 
292;  Kurdish  bases  in,  306,  317,  355; 
relations  with,  xxxiii,  39,  201,  292-93, 
306,  316-17;  as  security  threat,  280; 
trade  with,  156,  222,  292 

Iranian  Revolution  (1979),  292 

Iran-Iraq  War  (1980-88),  156,  209,  292, 
315 

Iraq:  in  Baghdad  Pact,  48;  border  with, 
36,  76,  290,  336;  British  mandate  in, 
33;  embargo  on,  149,  151,  152,  156- 
57,  192,  315,  325;  exports  to,  151,  192, 
226,  294;  instability  of,  286;  invasion 
of,  xxxvii;  Kurdish  bases  in,  306,  355; 
Kurdish  region,  xxxv,  xxxvii,  290-91, 
351;  Kurdish  uprising  in,  65,  236,  306, 
355,  356;  pipelines  from,  156,  201, 
286,  315,  325;  refugees  from,  234,  236, 
290-91;  relations  with,  xxxiii,  39,  294, 
306;  as  security  threat,  314;  trade  with, 
156,  222-23,  227 

Irmak,  Sadi,  51 

iron  production,  6,  206-7 

irrigation,  180-82,  187;  in  Anatolian  Pla- 


441 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


teau,  83,  180;  in  Arabian  Platform,  84; 
budget  for,  251;  in  Mediterranean 
region,  82,  180-81;  in  southeast  Ana- 
tolia, xxxi,  68 

Isbank,  212 

Ishmael.  See  Ismail 

Iskenderun:  industry  in,  207;  port  of, 
217 

Islam  {see  also  secularism),  106-16,  277; 
birth  control  in,  92;  conversion  to, 
xxvi,  13,  15,  110;  disestablishment  of, 
xxvi,  74,  132;  divorce  under,  134;  as 
foundation  of  Ottoman  Empire,  111; 
inheritance  under,  185;  introduction 
of,  3;  language  of,  92;  marriage  under, 
133;  open  expression  of,  45;  role  of, 
xxv,  xxvi;  Turkification  of,  117 

Islam,  Alevi,  116 

Islam,  Shia,  13 

Islam,  Sunni,  13;  Istanbul  as  center  of, 
19;  schools  of,  109 

Islamic  calendar,  106,  117 

Islamic  Movement  Organization,  359-60 

Islamic  political  activism,  xxv,  xxxi,  5,  60, 
235,  267,  278,  359 

Islamist  movement,  45,  105,  151,  235, 
264,  279,  359-60;  intellectuals  in,  119- 
20;  as  security  threat,  312,  359;  terror- 
ism by,  317 

Ismet  Pasha  {see  also  Inonu,  Ismet),  35; 
military  actions  of,  34 

Israel:  emigration  to,  104;  relations  with, 
294;  trade  with,  294-95 

Istanbul,  75-76;  established,  19;  etymol- 
ogy of,  19,  111;  Kurds  in,  235;  popula- 
tion of,  88;  population  density  in,  87; 
port  of,  217 

Istanbul  Stock  Exchange,  213-14 

Italy:  Libya  seized  by,  28;  occupation  of 
Turkey  by,  32,  308;  war  with,  32;  with- 
drawal of,  34 

Izmir  (Smyrna):  Kurds  in,  235;  port  of, 
217 


janissary,  22,  111,  307 

Jews,  104-5;  emigration  of,  104,  153;  in 

Ottoman  bureaucracy,  20;  population 

of,  104,  120-21,  123 
Jordan:  British  mandate  in,  33 
journalists:  arrested,  xxxvi,  234,  283, 

354,  369 


judges,  248,  250,  368 

judiciary,  238,  248-50 

Justice  Commandos  of  the  Armenian 
Genocide  (JCAG),  358,  359 

Justice  Party  (Adalet  Partisi — AP)  (see 
also  Democrat  Party,  Democratic 
Party),  xxxiv,  43,  49,  51,  62,  253,  256, 
262,  263;  in  elections  of  1961,  43;  in 
elections  of  1977,  51;  founded,  5,  262; 
in  power,  5 

Kahramanmaras:  political  violence  in, 
59-60 

Kahramanmaras  Province:  martial  law 

in,  60 
Kamal,  Yashar,  xxxvii 
Karadag,  Davut,  283 
Karadayi,  Ismail  Hakki,  322 
Karaites,  105 
Karakaya  Dam,  203 
Karaman:  population  density  in,  87 
Karamanlis,  Constantine,  55 
Kastelli  Bank:  collapse  of,  62 
Kayseri:  population  of,  88 
Kazakhstan:  oil  exploration  in,  199-201; 

relations  with,  xxxv,  288 
Kazandjian,  Karekin  Bedros,  122 
Keban  Dam,  203,  214 
Kemal,  Mustafa  (see  also  Atatiirk, 

Kemal),  xxv,  4;  military  activities  of, 

305;  and  Young  Turks,  27 
Kemalism,  xxvi,  4,  37;  in  armed  forces, 

309,  312;  elements  of,  4,  37,  74-75; 

maintenance  of,  42,  45,  60,  62,  254 
Keynes,  John  Maynard,  168 
Knights  of  Saint  John,  20 
Kocaeli:  population  density  in,  87;  port 

of,  217 
Kocbank,  213 

Koc  Holding  Company,  213 

Koksal,  Sonmez,  365 

Konya  (Iconium),  14;  population  of,  88 

KonyaAir  Base,  321 

Konya  Ovasi  (Konya  Basin) ,  83;  archaeo- 
logical research  at,  6;  rainfall  in,  86 

Kopriilu,  Ahmet,  22 

Koprulii  era,  22-23 

Kopriilu  family,  22 

Kopriilu,  Mehmet,  22 

Korean  War:  Turkish  troops  in,  xxxii,  47, 
299,  319 


442 


Index 


Koruturk,  Fahri:  as  president,  50 

Korutiirk  administration,  51 

Kuran  (Quran),  106-7 

Kurdish  insurgency,  59,  152,  177,  199, 
219,  233-34,  234,  280,  293,  300,  306- 
7,  355,  371;  casualties  from,  356;  costs 
of,  229;  support  for,  316,  317;  terror- 
ism by,  354,  356 

Kurdish  language,  73;  dialects  of,  98; 
prohibition  of,  67,  96,  98-100,  280; 
publications  in,  100 

Kurdistan,  84;  conquest  of,  21;  Kurds' 
desire  for  state  of,  xxxi,  xxxvi,  355 

Kurdistan  Workers'  Party  (Partiya  Kark- 
ere  Kurdistan— PKK),  xxxi,  100,  270, 
355,  370;  armed  forces  offensives 
against,  xxxv,  xxxvi,  236,  339,  356; 
banned,  67;  foreign  support  for,  292- 
93,  356-57;  goals  of,  281-82,  355;  mili- 
tary activities  of,  xxxv,  67-68,  132,  266, 
281,  282;  terrorism  against,  360 

Kurds,  9,  98-101,  280-81;  under  Atatiirk, 
355;  geographic  distribution  of,  235; 
government  policy  toward,  95,  100, 
257;  Iraqi,  65,  234,  236,  290,  291-92, 
306,  315-16,  351;  languages  of,  67,  73, 
96,  98-100,  101;  as  non-Turks,  73; 
under  Ozal,  100;  as  percentage  of 
population,  xxx,  73;  population  of,  98; 
as  refugees,  66,  234,  236,  290,  356; 
relations  of,  with  Turkey,  xxxi;  religion 
of,  73,  109,  115;  relocated,  234-35, 
281,  356;  separatist  sentiments  of,  59, 
67,  98,  280,  293,  355-57;  support  for, 
264;  uprisings  by,  355;  in  villages,  132 

Kuwait:  exports  to,  294;  financial  aid 
from,  325,  353 

Kyrgyzstan:  relations  with,  xxxv,  288 


tribution,  185;  erosion,  184;  owner- 
ship, 185,  186;  redistribution  of,  184 

land  reform,  184,  186 

land  tenure,  129,  132,  184-87 

land  use,  182-84 

language  groups  (see  also  under  individual 

languages) ,  95—1 05 
language  reform  (see  also  Turkish  lan- 
guage) ,  73-74,  92-95 
Latin  Empire  of  Constantinople,  15 
Lausanne  Conference  (1922),  35 
Law  for  the  Encouragement  of  Industry 

(1927),  167 
Law  of  Fundamental  Organization 

(Organic  Law)  (1921),  34 
Lawrence,  T.  E.,  31 
Lazi  language,  95 
Laz  people,  95,  102 
League  of  Nations,  36,  76 
Lebanon:  French  occupation  of,  33 
legal  system:  proposed  changes  to,  40; 

secularized,  36 
legislation,  242 
Le  Pen,  Jean-Marie,  163 
Libya:  construction  in,  209;  exports  to, 

226;  seized  by  Italy,  28 
literacy:  campaigns,  142;  rate,  93,  139, 

271 

livestock,  175,  191-92;  export  of,  176, 

191,  192;  production,  178,  184,  191, 

192;  wool  from,  191,  206 
London  Convention  of  1832,  23 
London  Convention  of  1840,  25 
lower  class:  occupations  of,  127;  religion 

of,  277;  in  towns,  128;  in  urban  areas, 

126 
Lydia,  9 
Lydians,  7-9 


labor  movement,  274-76;  weakening  of, 
163-64 

labor  unions,  127,  128,  162-67,  271; 
banned,  164,  275;  under  constitution 
of  1982,  165-66,  239,  275;  laws  regu- 
lating, 274,  275,  276;  political  activism 
of,  165,  274-75,  276,  311,  373;  and 
privatization,  171;  purged,  61;  restric- 
tions on,  165-66,  354 

Ladino,  105 

Lake  Van,  84 

land:  arable,  182,  187;  area,  75,  182;  dis- 


Macedonia,  26,  28;  war  in,  26 
Macedonia,  Former  Yugoslav  Republic 

of  (FYROM),  66,  317 
Mahmud  II,  307 
Makarios  III,  Archbishop,  53 
Makina  ve  Kimya  Endiistrisi  Kurumu 

(MKEK),  352 
Malatya  Ovasi:  rainfall  in,  86 
manufacturing,  152,  205-9;  decline  in, 

155-56;  under  economic  planning, 

173;  employment  in,  161,  206; 

exports,  156;  state  enterprises  in,  150, 


443 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


205-6;  of  textiles,  206 
Maritime  Bank  (Denizcilik  Bankasi),  21V 
Marmara  region:  immigrants  in,  89 
Maronites,  123 

marriage,  133-35;  interethnic,  15,  102, 
121,  134;  laws  of,  132,  133;  seculariza- 
tion of,  36,  133;  women  in,  136-37, 
138 

Marshall  Plan.  See  European  Recovery 
Program 

martial  law,  354;  courts,  369;  imposed, 
42,  52,  59,  60,  61,  255;  repealed, 
xxxiii,  257 

Marxist-Leninist  Armed  Propaganda 
Unit,  358 

Mass  Housing  Fund,  174,  209,  210 

materiel:  air  force,  340,  341,  352;  army, 
306;  domestic,  352;  embargo  on,  56, 
300,  349-50;  export  of,  353;  gendar- 
merie, 363;  from  Germany,  343,  344, 
353,  365;  navy,  342,  343-45,  353,  365; 
procurement  of,  339;  spending  on, 
326;  from  United  States,  343,  344,  345, 
365;  upgrading  of,  337 

Mavros,  George,  53 

mayors,  252;  religious,  235,  262,  268 

MCP.  ^Nationalist  Labor  Party 

MDP.  See  Nationalist  Democracy  Party 

Meat  and  Fish  Board,  179 

media,  283-85;  availability  of,  xxviii;  cen- 
sored, 234,  262 

Mediterranean  region,  78,  82;  agricul- 
ture in,  82;  climate  in,  84-86;  popula- 
tion in,  88;  tourism  in,  82;  villages  in, 
131 

Medya  Gunesi,  283 
Megara,  9 

Mehmetibn  Daud,  13-14 

Mehmetll,  19 

MehmetV,  28 

MehmetVI:  exiled,  35 

Memcu,  Ugur:  assassination  of,  270 

men:  life  expectancy  of,  87;  relations  of, 

with  women,  137-38 
Menderes,  Adnan,  4,  40;  hanged,  43;  as 

prime  minister,  41 
Menderes  administration:  economy 

under,  4,  43;  overthrown,  5;  religious 

tolerance  under,  4 
Mercedes-Benz,  194 
merchant  marine,  217 
Mersin:  population  of,  88;  port  of,  217 


Mesopotamia:  conquest  of,  21;  under 

Ottoman  Empire,  21,  308 
Mevlana  (Jalal  ad  Din  Rumi),  114 
MHP.  ^Nationalist  Action  Party 
middle  class,  126;  in  towns,  128;  women, 

139 

Middle  East,  290-95,  314-17;  construc- 
tion in,  209;  exports  to,  176,  191,  192; 
tourists  from,  219,  226;  trade  with, 
222,  226 

Midhat  Pasha,  26 

migration,  88-90;  of  workers,  163 

military:  discipline,  329-30;  education 
system,  312;  intelligence,  366 

military  academies:  admission  to,  310, 
331-32;  women  in,  330 

military  assistance:  from  United  States, 
56,  350-51 

military  conscription,  327;  evasion  of, 
328 

Military  Court  of  Appeals,  250 

military  officers:  backgrounds  of,  310; 
comportment  of,  332;  noncommis- 
sioned, 328,  341;  outlook  of,  309;  pay 
of,  310,  334;  privileges  of,  309-10, 
334-35;  purge  of,  44;  restrictions  on, 
308,  333-34;  retirement  of,  333;  revolt 
by,  44 

military  personnel:  backgrounds  of,  310, 
327-30;  desertion  by,  328;  pay  of,  334; 
training  of,  328,  342 

military  rule:  1960-61,  5,  42;  1980-83, 
311 

military  schools,  309,  330 
military  staff  academies,  332-33 
military  training:  by  France,  339;  by 

United  States,  351 
millet  system,  20;  abolished,  38;  legacy  of, 

96 

Milli  Istihbarat  Teskilati.  See  National 
Intelligence  Organization 

Milli  Selamet  Partisi.  See  National  Salva- 
tion Party 

MilUyet,  284 

Milliyetci  Calisma  Partisi.  See  Nationalist 
Labor  Party 

Milliyetci  Demokrasi  Partisi.  See  Nation- 
alist Democracy  Party 

Milliyetci  Hareket  Partisi.  See  Nationalist 
Action  Party 

minerals,  204-5;  export  of,  204,  220;  as 
percentage  of  gross  national  product, 


444 


Index 


222 

mining:  in  Black  Sea  area,  81;  foreign 
investment  in,  205;  nationalized,  205; 
as  percentage  of  gross  domestic  prod- 
uct, 204;  in  private  sector,  205;  state 
enterprises  for,  204-5 

Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Rural 
Affairs,  179 

Ministry  of  Energy  and  Natural 
Resources,  181 

Ministry  of  Finance,  174 

Ministry  of  Forestry,  179, 193 

Ministry  of  Health  and  Social  Assistance, 
143;  Family  Planning  Division,  91 

Ministry  of  Industry  and  Trade,  352 

Ministry  of  Justice,  369,  373 

Ministry  of  National  Defense,  323-25; 
budget  for,  327;  Undersecretariat  for 
Defense  Industries,  351-52 

Ministry  of  National  Education,  117, 
140,  142;  Directorate  of  Apprentice- 
ship and  Nonformal  Education,  143 

Minoan-Mycenean  civilization,  9 

minorities,  1 20-23 

MISK.  See  Confederation  of  Turkish 
Nationalist  Workers'  Unions 

MIT.  See  National  Intelligence  Organiza- 
tion 

MKEK.  See  Makina  ve  Kimya  Endustrisi 
Kurumu 

Mobil  Oil,  199,  201 

modernism:  versus  traditionalism,  74 

modernization:  of  agriculture,  150,  161; 
of  armed  forces,  305;  under  Atatiirk, 
4,  74-75, 150;  of  infrastructure,  68-69 

Moldavia:  under  Ottoman  Empire,  21 

Moldova:  economic  ties  with,  229 

Mongols,  15 

Montenegro:  in  First  Balkan  War,  28 

Montreux  Convention,  39,  40 

Morea:  ceded  to  Venice,  22 

mosques:  attendance  at,  107;  construc- 
tion of,  119,  277 

Motherland  Party  (Anavatan  Partisi — 
ANAP),  xxix-xxx,  xxxiii,  xxxiv,  62,  67, 
235,  266-67;  in  elections  of  1983,  63, 
233,  241,  311;  in  elections  of  1984, 
257;  in  elections  of  1986,  63,  64;  in 
elections  of  1987,  5,  241-42,  258;  in 
elections  of  1989,  64,  259;  in  elections 
of  1991,  66,  242,  260,  266;  foreign 
relations  under,  287;  problems  in,  261; 


religion  under,  278;  support  for,  118, 

261,267 
mountains,  78-81,  84 
Mount  Ararat  (Agri  Dagi) ,  78,  84 
MSP.  See  National  Salvation  Party 
Muhammad,  106;  successor  to,  109 
Muhammad  Ali  (of  Egypt),  23,  25 
Muhammad  ash  Shafii,  109 
Muhammad  ibn  Nusayr  an  Namiri,  110 
Municipalities  Bank  (Iller  Bankasi),  212 
Muradl,  17 

Murted  Air  Base,  352-53 

Muslims  {see  also  Islam) :  Ahl-i  Haq,  115; 
definition  of,  106,  107;  sectarian  ten- 
sions among,  101;  as  Turks,  xxx; 
Yazidi,  101 

Muslims,  Alevi,  115-16;  adherents  of,  73; 
Arabs  as,  100-101;  ethnicity  of,  96; 
Kurds  as,  100;  origins  of,  110;  as  per- 
centage of  population,  xxx;  Turks  as, 
100-101,  109 

Muslims,  Shia  (see  also  Muslims,  Alevi), 
110;  Kurds  as,  100;  as  percentage  of 
population,  115;  Twelve  Imam,  110, 
115 

Muslims,  Sunni,  xxx;  as  genuine  Turks, 

73;  Kurds  as,  100 
Muslim  courts.  See  courts,  seriat 
Mustafa  II,  22 

Naksibendi  tarikat,  279 

names:  under  Atatiirk,  36 

National  Assembly,  241-43;  arrests  of 
members  of,  xxxvi-xxxvii,  234,  243, 
254,  266,  373;  elections  to,  5;  mem- 
bers of,  238,241,242,  243 

National  Front,  51 

National  Intelligence  Coordination 

Committee,  366 
National  Intelligence  Organization 

(Milli  Istihbarat  Teskilati — MIT) ,  365 
National  Salvation  Party,  62 
nationalism,  4,  93 

Nationalist  Action  Party  (Milliyetci 
Hareket  Partisi — MHP),  xxviii,  43,  44, 
46,  51,  62,  165;  in  elections  of  1977, 
51;  organization  of,  47;  and  political 
violence,  59;  support  for,  46^17 
nationalist  congress  (1919),  33-34 
Nationalist  Democracy  Party  (Milliyetci 
Demokrasi  Partisi — MDP) ,  xxix,  62; 


445 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


dissolved,  264;  in  elections  of  1983,  63, 
255-56,  311;  in  elections  of  1984,  257 

Nationalist  Labor  Party  (Milliyetci  Cal- 
isma  Partisi— M£P) ,  269-70;  in  elec- 
tions of  1987,  258 

nationalist  movement,  33-34;  attack  on 
Armenia  by,  34-35 

National  Pact  (1919),  33,  35;  approved, 
34 

National  Salvation  Party  (Milli  Selamet 
Partisi— MSP),  xxviii,  49,  51,  118, 165, 
267-68;  dissolved,  268;  in  elections  of 
1973,  50;  in  elections  of  1977,  51; 
founded,  278;  religious  activism  in, 
278 

National  Security  Academy,  333 

National  Security  Council  (NSC),  xxix, 
5,  245-47,  322,  366;  appointed,  60; 
members  of,  60,  236-37,  245-47; 
reforms  under,  xxix,  5 

NATO.  See  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organi- 
zation 

naval  academy,  342 

Naval  Lyceum,  342 

Naval  Training  Command,  342 

navy,  341-45;  reserves,  329 

Netherlands:  guest  workers  in,  162; 
Turkish  immigrants  in,  90 

newspapers  {see  also  journalists;  media), 
283,  284;  censored,  283;  religious,  119 

New  Turkey  Party,  43-44 

Nicholas  I  (tsar),  23 

North  Africa:  under  Ottoman  Empire, 
21 

North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 
(NATO):  admission  to,  320,  348;  com- 
mands, 320;  deployment  of  troops  in, 
320-21;  exercises  of,  342;  intelligence 
gathering  by,  320,  348;  membership 
in,  xxxii,  48,  235,  286,  299,  305,  319- 
21;  representative  to,  323;  strategy,  321 

NSC.  See  National  Security  Council 

nuclear  power,  204 

Nurol  arms  company,  352 

Ocalan,  Abdullah,  67,  281,  282 

OECD.  See  Organisation  for  Economic 

Co-operation  and  Development 
Oguz  tribes,  13 

oil  {see  also  petroleum):  exploration, 
198-201;  pipelines,  156,  201,  315,  325 


oil  crisis  of  1973,  xxviii,  56, 154,  224 

Ordu  Yardimlasma  Kurumu.  See  Army 
Mutual  Aid  Association 

Organic  Law.  See  Law  of  Fundamental 
Organization 

Organisation  for  Economic  Co-opera- 
tion and  Development  (OECD),  56, 
174;  assistance  from,  224;  membership 
in,  xxx,  xxxii;  trade  with,  222 

Orhan,  17 

Osman  1, 17 

Osmanli  Dynasty.  See  Ottomans 
Ottoman  Empire,  xxv,  3,  17-31,  111; 
armed  forces  of,  305;  bureaucracy  of, 

20,  22,  167;  conquests  of,  in  Balkans, 
17,  20-21;  in  Crimean  War,  25;  debt 
under,  149;  decline  of,  21,  23,  307-8; 
dependence  of,  on  West,  149;  econ- 
omy of,  25-26,  27, 149,  167;  European 
intervention  in,  21;  expansion  of,  20- 

21,  307;  institutions  of,  19-20;  internal 
opposition  to,  27;  Islam  as  foundation 
of,  111;  origins  of,  4;  relations  of,  with 
Germany,  26-27,  28,  29;  tanzimat 
(reform),  149;  transportation  under, 
214;  29;  wars  of,  21,  22,  23,  25,  27,  32; 
in  World  War  I,  xxv,  30 

Ottoman  Land  Code,  97 

Ottomans,  17,  110 

Ottoman  Turkish,  20,  92,  167 

OYAK.  See  Army  Mutual  Aid  Association 

Oyak-Renault  automobile  manufac- 
turer, 209 

Oymapinar  Dam,  214 

Ozal,  Korkut,  278-79 

Ozal,  Turgut,  xxix,  62;  death  of,  xxxv,  5, 
68,  264;  goals  of,  xxx;  political  activi- 
ties of,  256,  266,  311;  popularity  of,  64, 
68;  as  president,  64,  234,  241,  244, 
259;  as  prime  minister,  5,  233;  rivalry 
of,  with  Demirel,  259,  267 

Ozal  administration,  5;  economy  under, 
xxx,  59,  150-51,  154-56,  170,  180, 
213,  224;  energy  under,  197-98;  eth- 
nic groups  under,  1 00;  industry  under, 
196;  labor  under,  127;  tourism  under, 
219 

Ozdenoren,  Rasim,  119 
Ozel,  Ismet,  119 

OZEP.  See  Freedom  and  Labor  Party 

Ozgur  Gundem,  283 


446 


Index 


Pakistan:  in  Baghdad  Pact,  48;  petro- 
leum concessions  in,  201 

Palaeologus,  Michael,  15 

Palestine:  British  mandate  in,  33;  under 
Ottoman  Empire,  21,  308 

Pamukbank,  213 

pan-Turanism,  27 

Paris  peace  talks  of  1919,  32 

Partiya  Karkere  Kurdistan.  See  Kurdistan 
Workers'  Party 

Paul  (apostle),  11 

People's  Democracy  Party  (Halkin 
Demokrasi  Partisi— HADEP) ,  281 

People's  Labor  Party  (Halkin  Emek  Par- 
tisi—HEP),  234,  265-66;  banned,  266, 
281;  platform  of,  265,  281 

Pergamum,  10 

Persia,  9;  Ottoman  wars  with,  22,  23 

Persian  Gulf  states:  exports  to,  191,  294; 
guest  workers  in,  163 

Persian  Gulf  War  (1990-91),  xxxv,  64- 
65, 156-57,  235,  285-86,  290,  306;  aid 
for,  351;  economic  problems  caused 
by,  149,  209,  294,  300,  315,  325;  refu- 
gees from,  290-91,  315-16;  spending 
on,  326 

Persian  language,  92 

Peter  the  Great  (tsar),  22 

Petkim.  ^Petrochemical  Corporation 

Petrochemical  Corporation  (Petro- 
kimya  Anonimsirketi — Petkim)  ,172, 
208 

Petrokimya  Anonimsirketi.  See  Petro- 
chemical Corporation 

petroleum  {see  also  oil):  consumption  of, 
197,  203;  imports  of,  198,  222;  output, 
199;  refineries,  201,  201;  reserves,  198; 
subsidies  for,  197 

Petrol  Ofisi,  172,  201 

Petty  Officers  School,  342 

Phrygia,  9 

Phrygians,  7-9 

PKK  See  Kurdistan  Workers'  Party 
Podolia,  22 

Poland:  in  Holy  League,  22;  Ottoman 
wars  with,  22,  23;  recovery  of  territory 
by,  22 

police,  national,  360,  361-62;  functions 
of,  361,370 

political  activity:  banned,  255;  restric- 
tions on,  142,  274,  308,  354,  372-73 

political  candidates:  religious,  105-6 


political  demonstrations:  in  1960,  42 

political  factionalism,  5 

political  instability,  xxviii-xxix,  5,  263;  of 
former  Soviet  Union,  286;  of  Iraq,  286 

political  interest  groups,  270-83;  armed 
forces  as,  272,  310-12;  labor  unions  as, 
274-75;  religious,  277-80;  universities 
as,  272-74 

political  killings,  354 

political  parties  (see  also  under  individual 
parties),  40-42,  130,  262-70;  abol- 
ished, 61,  233,  255,  311;  under  consti- 
tution of  1982,  xxix,  62,  240;  illegal, 
270,  368;  law  on,  62,  240;  and  religion, 
277;  restrictions  on,  240,  254,  274, 
372-73 

political  reform,  125;  under  Ozal,  xxxiii 
political  threats,  229 

political  violence,  52,  59-60;  casualties 
from,  59-60,  67 

politicians:  arrested,  xxxvi-xxxvii,  234, 
243,  254,  266,  373;  political  activities 
of,  258;  restrictions  on,  255 

Pontus  Mountains  (Dogukaradeniz  Dag- 
Ian)  ,  78,  82,  84 

population,  86-92;  Alevi  Muslims  in, 
xxx;  of  Armenians,  103,  282; 
exchange  with  Greece,  76;  of  Jews, 
104;  Kurds  in,  xxx,  73,  98;  in  1990,  86; 
in  1994,  73,  86;  Shia  Muslims  in,  115; 
Turks  in,  96 

population  fractions:  in  rural  areas,  88; 
in  Thrace,  75;  in  urban  areas,  88,  125, 
126;  in  villages,  128 

population  statistics:  birth  rate,  91,  150; 
death  rate,  87;  fertility  rate,  91;  growth 
rate,  86-87,  91,  161;  infant  mortality 
rate,  144;  life  expectancy,  87;  sex  ratio, 
87 

populism,  4 

Populist  Party  (Halkci  Partisi— HP),  62, 
256,  265;  in  elections  of  1983,  63;  in 
elections  of  1984,  257 

ports,  217 

Portugal:  Ottoman  war  with,  21 
poverty:  in  southeast  Anatolia,  xxxi 
president:  under  constitution  of  1982, 

xxix,  238,  244-47;  powers  of,  250 
Presidential  Council,  240,  247 
press  (see  also  journalists;  media;  newspa- 
pers), 283;  censorship  of,  257,  283; 
restrictions  on,  41-42,  262,  371 


447 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Prevention  of  Terrorism  Law,  xxxvi,  xxx- 
viii 

prices,  169-70;  market,  187;  support, 
180,187 

prime  minister:  under  constitution  of 

1982,  xxix,  238,  247 
prisoners,  374;  killings  of,  372;  numbers 

of,  369,  374;  torture  of,  257,  362,  371, 

372,  374 
prison  system,  373-74 
private  sector,  149;  encouragement  of, 

167;  in  mining,  205 
privatization:  opposition  to,  171;  of  state 

enterprises,  xxxix,  158,  168-69,  169- 

72,  179,197,201 
Privatization  Fund,  171 
Prosperity  Party.  See  Welfare  Party 
provincial  assembly,  251 
publications:  religious,  119 
public  enterprises.  See  state  enterprises 
public  order,  59-60 

Public  Participation  Administration, 
171,179 

Public  Revenue  Sharing  Schemes  Fund, 
174 

public  sector:  labor  unions  in,  163 
purges:  of  armed  forces,  xxix;  of  civil  ser- 
vice, xxix;  of  officer  corps,  44;  of  labor 
unions,  61;  of  universities,  xxix 


Quran.  SegKuran 


radio,  218,  283,  284-85;  Islamic,  119 
Ragusa  (Dubrovnik):  under  Ottoman 

Empire,  21 
railroads:  construction  of,  26,  167,  214; 

maintenance  of,  214-15;  network, 

215;  problems  with,  215;  state  control 

of,  171,  214 
Reagan,  Ronald,  300 
Real  Estate  Bank  (Tiirkiye  Emlak  Ban- 

kasi  As),  212 
Refah  Partisi.  See  Welfare  Party 
reformism,  4,  38 

refugees,  88;  from  Azerbaijan ,  287;  from 

Bulgaria,  289,  318;  from  Iran,  292; 

from  Iraq,  290-91,  315;  Kurds  as,  66, 

234,  236,  290,  356 
religion  {see  also  under  individual  sects) , 

105-23,  277;  under  constitution  of 


1982,  239;  distribution  of,  in  popula- 
tion, 277;  language  in,  92,  93;  and  pol- 
itics,  278;  supervision  of,  373; 
tolerance  of,  38,  45,  74,  277 

religious  associations  (tarikatlar) ;  130, 
277-80;  nationalized,  105 

religious  minorities,  96 

religious  tolerance,  45;  under  Menderes, 
4 

republicanism,  4,  37 

Republican  Peasants'  Nation  Party  (see 
also  Nationalist  Action  Party) ,  43,  46 

Republican  People's  Party  (Cumhuriyet 
Halk  Partisi— CHP),  xxvii,  62,  256, 
262,  269;  in  elections  of  1950,  4;  in 
elections  of  1954,  41;  in  elections  of 
1961,  43;  in  elections  of  1973,  50;  in 
elections  of  1977,  51;  founded,  38; 
platform  of,  5,  38,  45, 168,  262,  263;  in 
power,  5;  revival  of,  xxxviii 

Republican  Reliance  Party  (RRP),  50,  51 

Republic  State  Railways  (Tiirkiye  Cum- 
huriyeti  Devlet  Demiryollari  Isletmesi 
Genel  Mudurulii — TCDD) ,  214 

Revolutionary  Left  Party  (Devrimci 
Sol— DevSol),  270,  357 

revolution  of  1908,  308 

Rhodes:  conquest  of,  20 

rivers,  84,  217 

roads,  215;  construction  of,  xxxi;  mainte- 
nance of,  68,  215-17 

Roket  Sanayii,  352 

Roman  Catholic  Church,  123 

Roman  Empire,  10-11 

Romania:  in  Balkan  Pact,  39;  economic 
ties  with,  229,  287;  immigrants  from, 
89;  independence  of,  25;  relations 
with,  289 

RP.      Welfare  Party 

RRP.  See  Republican  Reliance  Party 

Rum,  Sultanate  of,  14-15 

Rumelia,  17;  Turks  in,  96,  97;  union  of, 
with  Bulgaria,  26 

rural  areas:  electrification  of,  203;  fami- 
lies in,  135;  family  planning  in,  91; 
income  in,  177;  population  in,  88;  reli- 
gion in,  277;  unemployment  in,  162 

Russia  (see  also  Soviet  Union):  and  Bal- 
kans, 25;  Bolshevik  Revolution  in,  31; 
construction  in,  209;  in  Crimean  War, 
25;  desire  for  Black  Sea  ports,  22-23; 
economic  ties  with,  229,  287;  immi- 


448 


Index 


grants  from,  102;  military  relations 
with,  23,  343;  Ottoman  wars  with,  22, 
23,  25;  relations  with,  25,  286;  as  secu- 
rity threat,  312-14;  territory  acquired 
by,  22,  25;  in  World  War  I,  30 
Russo-Ottoman  War  (1768-74),  23 


Sabanci  Holding,  209,  213 
Sabbatai  Sebi,  102 
Saddam  Husayn,  315,  356 
Samsun  area,  81 

Saudi  Arabia:  construction  in,  209; 
exports  to,  226;  financial  aid  from, 
325,  353;  guest  workers  in,  90,  163 

Schliemann,  Heinrich,  6 

schools  {see  also  education):  attendance 
at,  139,  140,  143;  budget  for,  251; 
lycees,  140;  middle,  140;  military,  309; 
number  of,  140;  preschool,  139;  pri- 
mary, 139;  religious,  xxvi,  38,  117, 
118-19,  139,  140,  239;  secondary,  140; 
vocational,  140 

Sea  of  Marmara:  fishing  in,  193 

Second  Republic  (1961-71),  5,  43 

secularism  (see  also  Islam),  xxv,  xxvi,  4, 
38,  116-17,  277;  commitment  to,  124; 
under  constitution  of  1982,  239;  insti- 
tution of,  xxvi-xxvii,  36,  74,  105;  main- 
tenance of,  45,  45;  opposition  to,  105, 
1 1 8;  retreat  from,  117-20 

security,  internal,  354-60;  intelligence 
gathering  for,  365-66 

security,  national,  248,  312-19;  defini- 
tions of,  272;  policy,  322;  threats  to, 
229,  305,  312-14 

Seleucid  Dynasty,  1 0 

Seleucids,  10 

Seleucus  Nicator,  10 

SelimI,  19,  20-22 

Selim  III,  307 

Seljuk  (khan),  13 

Serbia:  in  First  Balkan  War,  28;  indepen- 
dence of,  25 

Serbs:  defeated  by  gazis,  17 

serial  (sharia,  Islamic  law),  109,  111;  abol- 
ished, 38,  117,  132;  and  the  family,  36, 
132;  new  codification  of,  20 

services  sector,  149,  210-20;  decline  in, 
155-56;  employment  in,  162;  growth 
of,  153,  154-55;  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  159 


Seyh  Sait  rebellion  (1925),  117 
shantytowns,  126-27,  162,  210;  Kurds  in, 
98 

SHAPE.  See  Supreme  Headquarters 

Allied  Powers  Europe 
sharia.  Seeseriat 
Shell  Oil,  198, 199,  201 
ShiatAli,  110 

SHP.  See  Social  Democratic  Populist 
Party 

SIS.  See  State  Institute  of  Statistics 
Six  Arrows,  xxvi,  4,  37,  38-38,  116,  252, 
312 

smuggling,  362 
Smyrna  (Izmir) ,  26 
Sobieskijan,  22 

Social  Democratic  Party  (Sosyal 
Demokrat  Parti— Sodep),  234,  265; 
organization  of,  256 

Social  Democratic  Populist  Party  (Sosyal 
Demokrat  Halkci  Parti — SHP) ,  xxxiv, 
xxxviii,  234,  265-66;  in  elections  of 
1983,  63;  in  elections  of  1986,  63,  64; 
in  elections  of  1987,  258;  in  elections 
of  1989,  259;  in  elections  of  1991,  66- 
67,  242;  support  for,  264 

Social  Insurance  Institution,  144 

Social  Insurance  Institution  for  the  Self- 
Employed,  144 

social  reform:  under  Atatiirk,  xxv;  under 
military  rule,  xxvii 

social  structure,  123-32 

Sodep.  See  Social  Democratic  Party 

Soil  Products  Office,  187;  state  control 
of,  171 

Sosyal  Demokrat  Halkci  Parti.  See  Social 
Democratic  Populist  Party 

Sosyal  Demokrat  Parti.  See  Social  Demo- 
cratic Party 

South  Antalya  Project,  220 

Southeast  Anatolia  Project  (Giineydogu 
Anadolu  Projesi— GAP) ,  68,  181-82, 
203,  316;  construction  in,  209 

Soviet  Union  (see  also  Russia):  collapse 
of,  xxxv,  66,  236,  285,  286-90,  305, 
314;  immigrants  from,  89;  imports 
from,  202,  203;  invasion  of  Afghani- 
stan by,  286;  relations  with,  39;  as  secu- 
rity threat,  286,  312,  314;  trade  with, 
223;  treaties  of,  with  Turkey,  34 

Spain:  Ottoman  war  with,  21 

Stalin,  Josef  V.,  348 


449 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


state  enterprises,  149,  150,  169-72;  bud- 
get for,  157,  174;  investment  in,  38;  in 
manufacturing,  150,  205-7;  in  mining, 
204—5;  privatization  of,  xxxix,  158, 
168-69,  170,  171,  179,  197,  201;  trans- 
portation, 171,  214 

State  Highway  Administration,  174 

State  Institute  of  Statistics  (SIS),  86, 159 

State  Investment  Bank,  1 69 

State  Planning  Organization,  172,  174; 
established,  43 

State  Security  Court,  250,  275,  368-69 

State  Security  Court  of  Appeals,  369 

State  Supervisory  Council,  245 

steel,  206-7 

stock  market,  213-14 

strikes,  275;  banned,  61 ,  276;  in  1979, 52; 
in  1995,  xxxix;  restrictions  on,  166, 
373 

structural  adjustment  program,  xxxix 
student  demonstrations,  42;  repression 
of,  274 

students:  arrested,  354;  political  activities 

by,  142,  274,  372-73 
Sublime  Porte.  SeeBab-i  Ali 
subsidies:  for  agriculture,  178,  179-80; 

for  exports,  xxx;  reduction  in,  68,  154; 

for  state  enterprises,  170 
suffrage.  See  voting 

Sufi  brotherhoods,  xxvi,  110-15,  130; 
banned,  xxvi,  74,  105,  117;  Bektasi, 
111,  114,  115;  etymology  of,  111; 
Isikcilar,  118;  Kadiri,  114,  118;  Kurds 
in,  100;  Mevlevi,  74,  105,  114,  118; 
Naksibendi,  114,  118;  Nurcular,  118; 
organization  of,  114;  and  politics,  118; 
revival  of,  118;  role  of,  xxvi;  Safavi, 
110-11;  Siileymanci,  118;  Ticani,  118 

Siileyman  I  (the  Magnificent),  20-22 

sultan,  19-20;  abolished,  35,  116; 
deposed,  26 

Sumerbank,  206 

Sunalp,  Turgut,  62,  256 

Sunay,  Cevdet,  44;  as  president,  45,  49 

Sun-Language  Theory,  94 

sunna,  109 

Supreme  Board  of  Supervision,  253 
Supreme  Council  of  Judges  and  Public 

Prosecutors:  appointment  to,  245; 

head  of,  248;  duties  of,  248,  249,  250 
Supreme  Electoral  Council,  241 
Supreme  Headquarters  Allied  Powers 


Europe  (SHAPE):  representative  to, 
323 

Supreme  Military  Administrative  Court, 

250;  appointment  to,  245 
Supreme  Military  Council,  323 
Supreme  Planning  Council.  See  High 

Planning  Council 
Sweden:  Turkish  immigrants  in,  90 
Switzerland:  Turkish  immigrants  in,  90 
Syria:  border  problems  with,  76-77,  316; 
borders  with,  76,  290;  Egypt's  invasion 
of,  23;  French  occupation  of,  33;  Kur- 
dish bases  in,  306,  316,  355;  under 
Ottoman  Empire,  21;  relations  with, 
282,  292,  293-94,  306,  316;  as  security 
threat,  314 
Syrian  Catholic  Church,  120,  122 
Syrian  Orthodox  Church,  120,  122 

Tajikistan:  relations  with,  288 
Talat  Pasha,  Mehmet,  28;  exile  of,  31 
Tamerlane.  SeeTimur 
tarikatlar.  See  religious  associations 
Tartar  language,  97 
Taurus  Mountains,  78,  82-83,  84 
taxes:  on  farmers,  175;  increase  in,  158; 
as  percentage  of  gross  national  prod- 
uct, 174;  reform  of,  154,  175;  revenues 
from,  174 
TCDD.  See  Republic  State  Railways 
TCP.  See  Turkish  Communist  Party 
TCZB.  See  Agricultural  Bank  of  Turkey 
TEK.  See  Turkish  Electricity  Authority 
TEKEL.  See  General  Management  for 
Trade  in  Tobacco,  Tobacco  Products, 
and  Alcoholic  Spirits 
telecommunications,  218;  improvements 

in,  68,  218;  privatization  of,  171 
telephones,  218;  installation  of,  xxxi 
television,  218,  283,  284-85;  Islamic,  119 
terrorism,  xxviii,  5,  49,  354;  Armenian, 
358-59;  casualties  from,  xxviii;  govern- 
ment crackdown  on,  61;  by  Gray 
Wolves,  59;  by  Kurds,  xxxi,  xxxv,  219, 
354;  leftist,  357-58;  punishment  for, 
368 

textiles,  206;  as  percentage  of  gross 

national  product,  222 
Third  Republic  (1983-),  5,  61 
Thrace,  318,  319;  annexed  by  Ottomans, 

1 7;  civilization  of,  3;  in  First  Balkan 


450 


Index 


War,  28;  natural  gas  production  in, 
202;  under  Ottoman  rule,  25;  popula- 
tion in,  75;  population  density  in,  87; 
size  of,  75 

THY.  See  Turkish  Airlines 

Tigris  River,  84 

Timur  (Tamerlane) ,  1 7 

TISK.  See  Turkish  Confederation  of 
Employers'  Unions 

Titidates  III,  14 

TOB.      Turkish  Trade  Association 

tobacco,  81,  83, 180,  189 

Tofas  automobile  manufacturer,  209 

topography.  See  geology 

torture,  257,  362,  371,  372,  374 

tourism,  151,  219-20;  income  from,  155, 
219,  225;  increase  in,  159;  in  Mediter- 
ranean region,  82 

tourists,  219;  origins  of,  219,  226;  spend- 
ing by,  220 

towns,  128 

Toyota,  209 

trade  (see  also  exports;  imports),  159, 
220-23;  balance,  178,  220;  with  Cen- 
tral Asia,  152;  as  conduit  for,  227;  defi- 
cit, 150, 154, 157, 168,  224;  with  Egypt, 
294-95,  353;  with  Europe,  226,  227; 
with  European  Community,  227-28; 
with  former  Soviet  Union,  223;  with 
France,  21;  with  Germany,  222;  with 
Iran,  156,  222,  292;  with  Iraq,  156, 
222-23,  227;  with  Israel,  294-95;  with 
Middle  East,  222,  226;  with  Organisa- 
tion for  Economic  Co-operation  and 
Development,  222;  as  percentage  of 
gross  national  product,  220,  222;  with 
Soviet  Union,  223;  with  the  United 
States,  223 

traditionalism:  versus  modernism,  74 

transportation,  151,  214-18;  of  freight, 
215-17;  increase  in,  159;  railroads,  26, 
167,  171,  214;  shipping,  217;  under 
Ottoman  Empire,  21 

Transylvania:  ceded  to  Austria,  22;  under 
Ottoman  rule,  21 

Treaty  of  Angora  (Ankara)  (1926),  76- 
77 

Treaty  of  Brest-Litovsk  (1918),  31,  32 
Treaty  of  Hiinkar  Iskelesi  (1833) ,  23-25 
Treaty  of  Karlowitz  (1699),  22 
Treaty  of  Kars  (1921),  76 
Treaty  of  Kuchuk-Kaynarja  (1774),  23 


Treaty  of  Lausanne  (1923),  35-36,  55, 
76,  89,  103, 167-68,  308,  319 

Treaty  of  Moscow  (1921),  76 

Treaty  of  Paris  (1856),  25 

Treaty  of  San  Stefano  (1877),  25 

Treaty  of  Sevres  (1920),  32-33 

Tripoli:  conquest  of,  21 

Troy:  archaeological  research  at,  6 

TRT.  See  Turkish  Radio-Television  Cor- 
poration 

True  Path  Party  (Dogru  Yol  Partisi — 
DYP),  xxxiii-xxxiv,  xxxviii,  67,  235, 
258,  261,  263-65;  in  elections  of  1983, 
63;  in  elections  of  1984,  257;  in  elec- 
tions of  1986,  63,  64;  in  elections  of 
1987,  5,  258,  264;  in  elections  of  1989, 
64,  259;  in  elections  of  1991,  66,  242; 
in  elections  of  1994,  261-62;  foreign 
relations  under,  287;  organization  of, 
256;  platform  of,  279 

Truman,  Harry  S,  47 

Truman  Doctrine,  47-48,  298,  348 

Tugrul  Bey,  13 

Tu-Kiie  kingdom,  13 

Tunceli:  population  density  in,  87 

Tunis:  conquest  of,  21 

Tunisia:  seized  by  France,  25 

TUPRAS.  See  Turkish  Petroleum  Refiner- 
ies Corporation 

Turk,  Ahmet,  265 

Turk  Dil  Kurumu.  See  Turkish  Language 
Society 

Tiirkes,  Alparslan,  xxviii,  46,  59,  270; 

arrested,  61 
Turkey:  etymology  of,  3;  partition  of,  32- 

33 

Turkey,  Republic  of:  established,  xxv,  3, 
4,  36,  308 

Turk  Hava  Yollan.  See  Turkish  Airlines 
Turk-Is.  See  Confederation  of  Turkish 

Trade  Unions 
Turkish  Airlines  (Turk  Hava  Yollan — 

THY),  217-18;  privatization  of,  172; 

state  control  of,  171 
Turkish  Cement  Corporation,  208 
Turkish  Coal  Company,  202 
Turkish  Communist  Party  (TCP),  xxviii, 

357 

Turkish  Confederation  of  Employers' 
Unions  (Tiirkiye  Isveren  Sendikalan 
Konfederasyonu— TISK),  276-77 

Turkish  Defense  Fund,  353 


451 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


Turkish  Electricity  Authority  (Tiirkiye 
Elektrik  Kurumu — TEK) ,  203; 
Nuclear  Power  Plants  Division,  204 

Turkish  Family  Health  and  Planning 
Foundation,  91-92 

Turkish  Industrialists'  and  Businessmen's 
Association  (Turk  Sanayicileri  ve  Is 
Adamlan  Dernegi— TUSIAD) ,  277 

Turkish  Land  Forces.  See  armed  forces; 
army 

Turkish  language  {see  also  Ottoman 
Turkish) ,  xxx;  under  constitution  of 
1982,  73;  introduction  of,  3;  reform 
of,  73-74,  92;  spelling  of,  92,  93,  94; 
spoken  by  Kurds,  101;  as  vernacular, 
27 

Turkish  Language  Society  (Turk  Dil 

Kurumu) ,  94 
Turkish  Lignite  Company,  202 
Turkish  people.  See  Turks 
Turkish  Petroleum  Corporation,  199; 

exploration  by,  199-201;  state  control 

of,  171 

Turkish  Petroleum  International  Corpo- 
ration, 201 

Turkish  Petroleum  Refineries  Corpora- 
tion (Tiirkiye  Petrol  Refinerileri  As — 
TUPRAS):  privatization  of,  172 

Turkish  Radio-Television  Corporation 
(Tiirkiye  Radyo-Televizyon  Kurumu — 
TRT),  218,  284-85 

Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus, 
54,  66,  297 

Turkish  Trade  Association  (Tiirkiye 
Odalar  Birligi — TOB) ,  276 

Turkish  United  Communist  Party,  357 

Turkish  Workers'  and  Peasants'  Libera- 
tion Army,  358 

Turkish  Workers'  Party  (TWP),  46,  357; 
platform  of,  46 

Tiirkiye  Cumhuriyeti  Devlet  Demiryol- 
lari  Isletmesi  Genel  Miidurulu.  See 
Republic  State  Railways 

Tiirkiye  Cumhuriyeti  Ziraat  Bankasi.  See 
Agricultural  Bank  of  Turkey 

Tiirkiye  Devrimci  Isci  Sendikalan  Kon- 
federasyonu.  See  Confederation  of 
Revolutionary  Trade  Unions  of  Tur- 
key 

Tiirkiye  Elektrik  Kurumu.  See  Turkish 

Electricity  Authority 
Tiirkiye  Emlak  Bankasi  As.  See  Real 


Estate  Bank 
Tiirkiye  Hak  Isci  Sendikalan  Konfederas- 

yonu.  See  Confederation  of  Turkish 

Just  Workers'  Union 
Tiirkiye  Ihracat  Kredi  Bankasi.  See 

Export  Credit  Bank  of  Turkey 
Tiirkiye  Isci  Sendikalan  Konfederas- 

yonu.  See  Confederation  of  Turkish 

Trade  Unions 
Tiirkiye  Isveren  Sendikalan  Konfederas- 

yonu.  See  Turkish  Confederation  of 

Employers'  Unions 
Tiirkiye  Milliyetci  Isci  Sendikalan  Kon- 

federasyonu.  See  Confederation  of 

Turkish  Nationalist  Workers'  Unions 
Tiirkiye  Odalar  Birligi.  See  Turkish  Trade 

Association 
Tiirkiye  Petrol  Refinerileri  As.  ^Turk- 
ish Petroleum  Refineries  Corporation 
Tiirkiye  Radyo-Televizyon  Kurumu.  See 

Turkish  Radio-Television  Corporation 
Turkomans,  97-98 

Turkmenistan:  relations  with,  xxxv,  288 
Turks,  96-98;  ancestors  of,  13;  conver- 
sion of,  to  Islam,  xxvi,  110;  definition 
of,  xxx,  73,  96;  ethnic  background  of, 
4,  96-97;  opinion  of,  in  Ottoman 
Empire,  92;  origins  of,  xxvi,  3,  11-15; 
religion  of,  73,  109, 115 
Turks,  Seljuk,  13-14;  Islam  introduced 
by,  3,  13 

Turk  Sanayicileri  ve  Is  Adamlan  Der- 
negi. See  Turkish  Industrialists'  and 
Businessmen's  Association 

Turk  Ucak  Sanayi  Sirketi.  SeeTUSAS 
Aerospace  Industries 

TUSAS  (Turk  Ucak  Sanayi  Sirketi)  Aero- 
space Industries,  352 

TUSIAD.  See  Turkish  Industrialists'  and 
Businessmen's  Association 

Tutunbank,  213 

Tutiin  Mamulleri,  Tuz  ve  Alkol  Isletme- 
leri  Genel  Mudurliigu.  See  General 
Management  for  Trade  in  Tobacco, 
Tobacco  Products,  and  Alcoholic  Spir- 
its 

Tuz  Golu,  83 

TWP.  See  Turkish  Workers'  Party 

Ukraine:  economic  ties  with,  229,  287; 
military  relations  with,  343 


452 


Index 


Ulusu,  Bulent:  as  prime  minister,  60-61 
Umayyad  dynasty,  109 
underemployment,  159, 162 
unemployment,  127,  142,  150,  161;  in 

1970s,  xxviii,  5,  56-58,  154;  in  1980s, 

xxx;  in  1990s,  142,  156,  159,  169,  279; 

in  rural  areas,  162;  in  urban  areas, 

159-61,  162 
Unionist  Party,  1 24 
Union  of  Chambers  of  Industry,  276 
United  Arab  Emirates:  financial  aid 

from,  325,  353 
United  Nations,  40,  372;  embargo  on 

Iraq,  149,  151,  152,  156-57,  192,  315, 

325;  peacekeeping  forces,  305,  317, 

337 

United  States:  aid  from,  325,  326,  353; 
arms  embargo  by,  56,  300,  349-50; 
defense  and  economic  cooperation 
agreement  with,  349;  exports  to,  176, 
206,  353;  joint  ventures  with,  306; 
materiel  from,  341,  343,  344,  365;  mili- 
tary assistance  from,  56;  military  coop- 
eration with,  306,  348-51;  military 
installations  of,  300-301,  306,  348-49, 
350;  military  personnel  from,  349;  mil- 
itary training  by,  351;  relations  with, 
47,  235,  298-301;  trade  with,  223 

Unity  and  Peace  party  (Birlik  ve  Baris), 
269 

universities,  140-41,  274;  admission  to, 
142;  demonstrations  in,  272-74;  politi- 
cal interests  of,  272-74,  311;  purged, 
xx  ix 

urban  areas:  class  structure  in,  125-26; 
growth  of,  126;  income  in,  177;  popu- 
lation in,  88,  125,  126;  unemployment 
in,  159-61,  162 

urbanization,  88,  97,  125,  174,  271 

urban  life,  125-27 

urban  migration,  88,  97,  150,  161,  177; 

in  1970s,  xxviii 
Uzbekistan:  relations  with,  xxxv,  288 


wages:  adjustments  of,  166;  decline  in, 

158;  freeze  on,  68 
Wallachia:  under  Ottoman  Empire,  21 
War  of  Independence  (1919-22),  xxv, 

34-36,  312,  339;  economy  under,  152 
welfare,  144-45;  expansion  of,  159 
Welfare  Party  (Refah  Partisi— RP;  also 
seen  as  Prosperity  Party),  xxxi-xxxii, 
64,  235,  257,  267-69,  359;  activism  of, 
279;  and  economic  reform,  xxxiii;  in 
elections  of  1983,  63;  in  elections  of 
1987,  258,  267;  in  elections  of  1991, 
67;  in  elections  of  1994,  261-62;  plat- 
form of,  xxxii,  xxxiii,  261,  268,  269 
Western  influence  (see  also  moderniza- 
tion), 4 

West  Germany.  See  Germany,  Federal 
Republic  of 

WHO.  See  World  Health  Organization 

Wilson,  Woodrow,  32 

women:  in  armed  forces,  330;  under 
Ataturk,  36;  dress  of,  120, 137-38;  edu- 
cation of,  139,  161;  employment  of, 
138-39,  161;  life  expectancy  of,  87; 
marriage  of,  136-37,  138;  relations  of, 
with  men,  137;  roles  of,  136,  137;  suf- 
frage for,  138;  status  of,  136, 138-39 

workers:  under  constitution  of  1982, 
238-39;  migration  of,  163;  pay 
increases  for,  165;  restrictions  on, 
166-67;  skilled,  163 

workforce,  159-67;  in  manufacturing, 
161,  206;  in  state  enterprises,  169 

working  class,  139 

World  Bank:  aid  from,  143 

World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  144 

World  War  I,  28-31,  339;  economy 
under,  152;  Germany  in,  xxv;  Ottoman 
Empire  in,  xxv,  308 

World  War  II,  40,  153 


Xenophon,  9,  98 


Venice,  22 

Vienna:  sieges  of,  21,  22,  307 

villages,  128-32;  electrification  of,  203; 
government  of,  251,  252;  headman 
(muhtar)  in,  131,  252;  relocation  of, 
132,  234-35,281,356 

volcanoes,  77 


Yapi  ve  Kredi  Bankasi,  213 

Yasar  Holding  Corporation,  213 

Yassiada  trials,  43,  44 

Yazar,  Feridun,  281 

Yem  Sanayili.  See  Fodder  Industry 

Yiddish,  105 

Yilmaz,  Mesut,  266,  267;  opposition  to, 


453 


Turkey:  A  Country  Study 


267 

YOK.  See  Council  of  Higher  Education 
Young  Ottoman  movement,  26 
Young  Turks,  27-28,  308 
Yugoslavia:  in  Balkan  Pact,  39;  collapse 

of,  xxxv,  289;  immigrants  from,  89 
Yuksek  Ogretim  Kurumu.  See  Council  of 


Higher  Education 
Yuriik  Turks,  97 


Zayna,  Leyla,  xxxvii,  281 

Ziraat  Bank:  state  control  of,  1 71 


454 


Contributors 


Steven  A.  Glazer  is  Lecturer  in  the  Department  of  History  at 
George  Mason  University;  he  previously  served  as  book 
review  editor  of  the  Middle  East  Journal 

Eric  Hooglund  is  the  Editor  of  Critique:  Journal  for  Critical  Studies 
of  the  Middle  East.  He  has  taught  courses  on  the  Middle 
East  at  several  universities  and  formerly  was  editor  of  the 
Middle  East  Journal 

Helen  Chapin  Metz  is  Supervisor,  Middle  East/ Africa/Latin 
America  Unit,  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of  Con- 
gress. 

Fareed  Mohamedi  is  Senior  Economist,  Petroleum  Finance 
Company,  and  author  of  articles  on  the  Middle  East  and 
international  oil  affairs. 

Jean  R.  Tartter  is  a  retired  Foreign  Service  Officer  who  has 
written  extensively  on  the  Middle  East  and  Africa  for  the 
Country  Studies  series. 


455 


Published  Country  Studies 


JjU— DJ 

Afghanistan 

550-98 

Albania 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-59 

Angola 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-111 

Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 

and  Georgia 

550-169 

Australia 

550-176 

Austria 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-112 

Belarus  and  Moldova 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-61 

Burma 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-159 

Chad 

550-77 

Chile 

550-60 

China 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Carib 

bean,  Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory 

Coast) 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

(Area  Handbook  Series) 

550-36  Dominican  Republic 

and  Haiti 

550-52  Ecuador 

550-43  Egypt 

550-150  El  Salvador 

550-28  Ethiopia 

550-167  Finland 

550-173  Germany,  East 

550-155  Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-153  Ghana 

550-87  Greece 

550-78  Guatemala 

550-174  Guinea 

550-82  Guyana  and  Belize 

550-151  Honduras 

550-165  Hungary 

550-21  India 

550-154  Indian  Ocean 

550-39  Indonesia 

550-68  Iran 

550-31  Iraq 

550-25  Israel 

550-182  Italy 

550-30  Japan 

550-34  Jordan 

550-56  Kenya 

550-81  Korea,  North 

550^1  Korea,  South 

550-58  Laos 

550-24  Lebanon 

550-38  Liberia 


457 


550-85 

Libya 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-17? 
~>  ju — i  / 

lV/Talawi 

550— <kf\ 

J JU— OD 

oomaiia 

550-45 

JJU  T-J 

ivididy  Md. 

5<.o  cn 

JJU— y d 

x  Antn   A  -fV"-i /-»o 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-Q5 

S  nvi  Pt  T  Tn  i  on 

550-7Q 

j  ju —  /  S 

1V1CA1CU 

ccn  170 

JJU — 1 / 7 

opdUl 

550-76 

Mongolia 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

JjU— 4V 

Morocco 

ssn  97 

JjU— Li 

Sudan 

CCA  C.A 

jjU— t>+ 

Mozambique 

CCQ  -17 
JJU— 4-  / 

Syria 

ccn  3<\ 
jju— jj 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550— 6? 

ldilZdilld. 

ccn  Qfi 
jjU— 55 

Nicaragua 

550— 53 

JJU— J J 

1  UdlldllU 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-89 

Tunisia 

ccn  c\a 
jjU— ^4 

Oceania 

550  so 

JJU — ou 

Tiirlrpv 

ccr\  ao 
jjU— 45 

Pakistan 

550  74 
JJU —  /*+ 

T  TrronHo 
UgdllUd 

ccn  a& 
JJU — t-O 

ranama 

550-97 

T  TriiPiiav 

wa  ugua y 

ccr»  1  c*c 
jjU-Ijo 

Paraguay 

550-71 

JJU    / 1 

VCllCZ,UCld 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-32 

Viemam 

CCQ  /|Q 
JJU — ■ ^ 

rci  u 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550  7? 

Mhl  IITXtAITI^C 
L  lillippillCd 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

ccn  16? 

JJU — 1UZ 

i  Uld.il  Q 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-181 

Pnrtiioal 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-160 

Romania 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

458 


PIN:004256-000 


