Z  6207 
,W8  A34 
1992 
COPY  2 


5  W 


sy  t-1  *  °a  /> 

(•  o  a  ♦  r 

*  W\w7Vl  o  ' 


*  A  O .  *  ¥?-shU<!^0  0  ^O  Y>  *  O^  * 

>  -',*§jfe'.  \  £  ?$Mih%  **  '#$$&**  ^  <,<£■ 

vv  O  r  ATV  -  ^£W2  X  VV  O  r  ’VV 

,e?JJV  o  HFuI  *  nP'  *  4^  jfllfw  *  0^  pt> 

V  vl  o  m/ JjRA;.  ^  <^v  v^s  ^  <)V  o  ^v  A^V’  *  <y 


\r<F 


0  0  ^  *  ffWf  ®  47  ^  °o  WW  * 

*  ^  yj  O  l/A&s. NjJ  ^  <V»  <Vs  .  *!£jf\‘jy  **  AV  ^j.  O  %'^vj'T  .%  (y  ▼V 

^  U^V°’  ^  CO  H  o  V<  *  *  S  >°,  .  «■ »  *  <fV  0  *  ^  to«o 


1  *  v*oN  «  mw  ;  ov^  i  *  ,/*o>  *  nw  *  ^ov  i  ^m 
3*  0  >P*^A.  *•  ^Sl^rly  *  <pv0/‘  *  0  5bP”*V  *- 

M  Af>  .V  ^  A^A,  *0  *►  ^  ♦  ^A,*p  ^  <! 

s  °Mm'r  \<r  ;  WrW  *  fjllil*  ^  ’W” 

K  \ WW\tf/  *  fe-Ejr  »  **V  4^^  *  %Sf3  » 


°wlw*  -A  A  J.l®f»°  «•"  /i  *■ 

>  o  'VxwAK  *  <\?  v4  *  xcftK’Js  a*  <\r  ^J>  °  t/T^vN  <V"  AC'  j.  -wiwiYa-'  a.  <*_’■  - . 

>4'°  •  ‘Vpo-./V'  *  *  o^M^o0  *  *  *  oop'M 

/-M  ,^v^v 

,  V 

o.  '* 


•  V 

/.-.Aa'-'-*  <s>* 


V  ,  % 

o  ^  ^ 

0  Y  ■>  o  > 

,* 

,  ■«...»%&.».  V'«*‘**A 

V  (?V 
Ao'  - 


-  ^OV 
°  »■ 

°4,  #>ono’  A°  -  a  .  * ♦ 

^  cv  xT 

^  %* 

AT  V 


*  Oo  M  <y  o0 

:$k\  %<?  *  Jfe;  M 

j  o  ajv  *  -  ,v>. 


;«« J-«.°  aw- 

it*  ■>kX  A  O^  ".mit**  <faX 


ov 

x°< 


%  <;°  -£  \  ^  *$£:■*  * 


i>\„  ,  «  1.  ■ .  .Jti .  o 

V/^'.  0^^A  M 


J.V  c7 


0^ 


o-  ❖ 

^  vf ,  «  K 
rAO 


%  O  4*^  »  H^tvM  "Ty  o  *  agflTfr 2 


*> .*£.\ J  *  *  0°^, : ^  V •  1>^;::^V  *  •  ~  *.\'°  *  1  v> 

a.  •  |||g;  |"  o-*sm'  a  -sm>s*  ^.4  s_^ 


*ov 
*p<l 


>*.  cr  ♦’ 

*  *4> ,  <f  K 

-  -  «t*  ,.<«  .  -  -  „  _  ,  -_«»  *  v-cr 
.♦’/  o0  V^.*  o  \\‘<m*J!  s  O  '<,w.*  O'  *A.V 

>  •  •  •  - Vt* * •  * ./V" •  V** •  * »°V,M,V  *1  •  o/v*” 

'<%*?*&?*>£ WVW^/*V 

\*>s%\\w/^v\  %W»*  /\lW/  ^  S/ 

o4^\'°  ‘  l>s.‘r*^ J  *  *  o°v:  ;;^V  *  ^tr  **V  *  *  »;■ 

:&St)  V  V  *'®:  V  fi 

*  >.  —  ^  <$V  *1  <^W/K^  **  ^  ^  ^  ^  **  (Z^W/RkP  *y  <**_  * 

Tfc  '  ^  *1  *  o,  Vy  w  ,1  ’  ^>vs»  «  *  ^° 

P 


'•  \</  •*  ^  o  W  / £fe\  V*  /^ke.  W  /Jfe'*  ^ 


^■-c3  Ffticv-  *  w  r  „  ;  V'-'  *  <  w 

V^T*'  o  %,  \‘m*rj  o  - 

#»OKO’  #  %  **,1  *  *  „  *  „  \ 

?,  sy  *♦*  *  *  vV  wlT^  % 

^P  c>  <X  %  ,<y  «  *  1 

frc?  *  £sM&//A.  ®  V'V’  °  - 


cfs'f'r 


if\ 


\r< 


& 


#  ^  ^>o°  ’ 


,v. 


r»  N 


UNITED  STATES  ARMY  IN  WORLD  WAR  II 


Reader’s  Guide 


Compiled  and  edited 
by 

Richard D.  Adamczyk 
Morris  J.  MacGregor 


CENTER  OF  MILITARY  HISTORY 
UNITED  ST  A  TESARMY 
WASHINGTON,  D.C.,  1992 


Library  of  Congress  Catalog  Card  Number:  47^16404 


Published  volumes  of  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II  may  be  obtained 
through  bookstores  or  by  an  order  addressed  to  Superintendent  of  Documents, 
Government  Printing  Office,  Washington,  D.C.  20402,  enclosing  a  check  or  money 
order  for  the  price  of  the  volumes. 


CMH  Pub  1 1-9 


For  sale  by  the  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Superintendent  of  Documents,  Mail  Stop:  SSOP.  Washington,  DC  20402-9328 


ISBN  0-16-037817-6 


Foreword 


The  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II  series  describes  the  organization,  plans, 
and  operations  of  the  War  Department  and  the  Army ,  in  the  zone  of  interior  and  in  all 
of  the  Army’s  five  theaters  of  operations  from  1939  to  1945.  Since  the  Army 
authorized  the  project  in  1946,  seventy-eight  volumes  have  been  or  are  being 
published  representing  an  organized  treasury  of  knowledge  on  the  world’s  greatest 
conflict.  Behind  them  lies  one  of  the  largest  masses  of  records  and  recollections  ever 
produced.  These  documents,  including  those  of  the  enemy,  have  been  explored  by 
professional  historians,  with  the  cooperation  of  a  host  of  participants  and  with  all  the 
facilities  and  assistance  that  the  Office  of  the  Chief  of  Military  History  and  its 
successor,  the  Center  of  Military  History,  could  provide  to  ensure  that  this  endeavor 
was  as  comprehensive,  accurate,  and  objective  as  possible.  The  final  result  has 
provided  commanders  and  staff  officers,  historians,  and  students — military  and 
civilian  alike — with  an  unprecedented  professional  guide  to  past  experience  as  they 
seek  light  on  the  uncertain  path  ahead. 

But  the  volumes  are  large  and  readers  who  need  the  knowledge  contained  in  them 
are  often  pressed  for  time.  Although  each  volume  contains  its  own  analytical  index, 
a  given  subject  may  be  discussed  from  various  points  of  view  in  a  number  of  volumes. 
The  present  pamphlet  thus  attempts  to  furnish  the  seeker  of  information  with  a  finding 
aid  which  will  enable  him  to  profit  more  readily  from  the  great  investment  of  resources 
that  the  Army  has  devoted  to  extending  his  knowledge.  This  work  supersedes 
Reader' s  Guide  //,  published  in  1960.  Criticisms  and  suggestions  that  look  to  the 
improvement  of  the  present  Guide  will  be  welcomed. 


Washington,  D.C. 
26  February  1992 


HAROLD  W.  NELSON 
Brigadier  General,  U.S.  Army 
Chief  of  Military  History 


« 


Preface 


This  pamphlet  contains  a  brief  analytical  description  of  each  volume  in  the  United 
States  Army  in  World  War  II  series  published  to  date  or  to  be  published  in  the  near 
future.  These  sketches  have,  in  most  cases,  been  prepared  by  the  author  at  the  request 
of  the  Chief  Historian  in  his  capacity  as  General  Editor  of  the  series.  Each  synopsis 
is  followed  by  a  list  of  “key  topics”  found  in  the  volume  and  in  most  cases  their 
chapter  location.  In  addition,  a  pamphlet  index  is  included  which  refers  to  both  the 
lists  of  key  topics  and  the  subject  matter  in  the  descriptive  sketches.  With  its  aid,  the 
reader  should  be  able  to  find  information  bearing  on  a  specific  topic  that  may  be 
located  in  several  volumes,  which  touch  on  different  aspects  of  a  problem  or  an  event. 
However,  neither  the  topic  lists  nor  the  pamphlet  index  are  exhaustive,  and  should  be 
supplemented  by  reference  to  the  analytical  index  that  is  contained  in  each  published 
volume. 

The  admonition  which  concluded  the  preface  of  Reader ’s  Guide  I  bears  repeating: 
“The  descriptive  sketches  that  appear  in  the  following  pages  are  not  resumes  or  guts 
of  the  volumes.  They  do  not  provide  pat  answers  but  then  neither  does  history. 
History  is  a  vicarious  story  that  cannot  be  experienced  except  through  participation 
in  the  event  or  through  reading.  History’s  value  lies  in  qualifying  the  reader  to  see 
events  and  problems  as  conditioned  by  their  context  and  their  sequence  in  time,  not 
in  isolation.  Only  extensive  reading  can  give  this  qualification,  which  is  the  beginning 
of  wisdom.  It  is  hoped  this  pamphlet  may  help  to  get  at  the  heart  of  the  matter  in  which 
the  reader  is  chiefly  interested  at  any  particular  time.” 


Washington,  D.C. 
26  February  1992 


JEFFREY  J.  CLARKE 
Chief  Historian 
Center  of  Military  History 


Contents 


Sub  series  and  volume  Page 

THE  WAR  DEPARTMENT .  3 

Chief  of  Staff:  Prewar  Plans  and  Preparations .  3 

Washington  Command  Post:  The  Operations  Division .  4 

Strategic  Planning  for  Coalition  Warfare:  1941-1942  .  6 

Strategic  Planning  for  Coalition  Warfare:  1943-1944  .  8 

Global  Logistics  and  Strategy:  1 940-1943  .  10 

Global  Logistics  and  Strategy:  1 943-1 945  .  12 

The  Army  and  Economic  Mobilization .  14 

The  Army  and  Industrial  Manpower .  16 

THE  ARMY  GROUND  FORCES .  21 

The  Organization  of  Ground  Combat  Troops .  21 

The  Procurement  and  Training  of  Ground  Combat  Troops .  23 

THE  ARMY  SERVICE  FORCES .  29 

The  Organization  and  Role  of  the  Army  Service  Forces .  29 

THE  WESTERN  HEMISPHERE .  35 

The  Framework  of  Hemisphere  Defense .  35 

Guarding  the  United  States  and  Its  Outposts .  37 

THE  WAR  IN  THE  PACIFIC .  41 

Strategy  and  Command:  The  First  Two  Years .  43 

The  Fall  of  the  Philippines .  44 

Guadalcanal:  The  First  Offensive .  46 

Victory  in  Papua .  48 

CARTWHEEL:  The  Reduction  of  Rabaul .  48 

Seizure  of  the  Gilberts  and  Marshalls .  50 

Campaign  in  the  Marianas .  51 

The  Approach  to  the  Philippines .  52 

Leyte:  The  Return  to  the  Philippines .  54 

Triumph  in  the  Philippines .  55 

Okinawa:  The  Last  Battle .  56 

THE  MEDITERRANEAN  THEATER  OF  OPERATIONS .  61 

Northwest  Africa:  Seizing  the  Initiative  in  the  West .  61 

vii 


Subseries  and  volume 


Page 


Sicily  and  the  Surrender  of  Italy .  62 

Salerno  to  Cassino .  64 

Cassino  to  the  Alps .  65 

THE  EUROPEAN  THEATER  OF  OPERATIONS .  69 

The  Supreme  Command .  71 

Cross-Channel  Attack .  73 

Breakout  and  Pursuit .  75 

The  Lorraine  Campaign .  77 

The  Siegfried  Line  Campaign .  78 

The  Ardennes:  Battle  of  the  Bulge .  79 

Riviera  to  the  Rhine .  81 

The  Last  Offensive .  83 

Logistical  Support  of  the  Armies,  Volume  I: 

May  1 94 1  -September  1 944 .  84 

Logistical  Support  of  the  Armies,  Volume  II: 

September  1944-May  1945 .  85 

THE  MIDDLE  EAST  THEATER .  89 

The  Persian  Corridor  and  Aid  to  Russia .  89 

THE  CHINA-BURMA-INDIA  THEATER .  93 

Stilwell’s  Mission  to  China .  93 

StilwelFs  Command  Problems .  94 

Time  Runs  Out  in  CBI .  95 

THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES .  99 

The  Chemical  Warfare  Service:  Organizing  for  War .  101 

The  Chemical  Warfare  Service:  From  Laboratory  to  Field .  1 02 

The  Chemical  Warfare  Service:  Chemicals  in  Combat .  103 

The  Corps  of  Engineers:  Troops  and  Equipment . .  104 

The  Corps  of  Engineers:  Construction  in  the 

United  States .  105 

The  Corps  of  Engineers:  The  War  Against  Japan .  106 

The  Corps  of  Engineers:  The  War  Against  Germany .  108 

The  Medical  Department:  Hospitalization  and  Evacuation, 

Zone  of  Interior .  109 

The  Medical  Department:  Medical  Service  in  the 

Mediterranean  and  Minor  Theaters .  110 

The  Medical  Department:  Medical  Service  in  the  European 

Theater  of  Operations .  Ill 

The  Medical  Department:  Medical  Service  in  the 

War  Against  Japan .  112 


Vlll 


Subseries  and  volume 


Page 


The  Ordnance  Department:  Planning  Munitions  for  War .  1 1 3 

The  Ordnance  Department:  Procurement  and  Supply .  114 

The  Ordnance  Department:  On  Beachhead  and  Battlefront .  1 1 6 

The  Quartermaster  Corps:  Organization,  Supply, 

and  Services,  Volume  I .  117 

The  Quartermaster  Corps:  Organization,  Supply, 

and  Services,  Volume  II .  117 

The  Quartermaster  Corps:  Operations  in  the  War 

Against  Japan .  119 

The  Quartermaster  Corps:  Operations  in  the  War 

Against  Germany .  120 

The  Signal  Corps:  The  Emergency  (To  December  1941) .  121 

The  Signal  Corps:  The  Test  (December  1941  to  July  1943) .  121 

The  Signal  Corps:  The  Outcome  (Mid-1943  Through  1945) .  121 

The  Transportation  Corps:  Responsibilities,  Organization, 

and  Operations .  124 

The  Transportation  Corps:  Movements,  Training, 

and  Supply .  125 

The  Transportation  Corps:  Operations  Overseas .  127 

SPECIAL  STUDIES .  131 

Chronology:  1941-1945  .  131 

Buying  Aircraft:  Materiel  Procurement  for  the 

Army  Air  Forces .  132 

Civil  Affairs:  Soldiers  Become  Governors .  1 34 

The  Employment  of  Negro  Troops .  1 35 

Military  Relations  Between  the  United  States  and  Canada: 

1939-1945  .  136 

Rearming  the  French .  137 

Three  Battles:  Amaville,  Altuzzo,  and  Schmidt .  1 39 

The  Women’s  Army  Corps .  140 

Manhattan:  The  Army  and  the  Atomic  Bomb .  141 

PICTORIAL  RECORD .  147 

The  War  Against  Germany  and  Italy:  Mediterranean  and 

Adjacent  Areas .  147 

The  War  Against  Germany:  Europe  and  Adjacent  Areas .  147 

The  War  Against  Japan .  147 

WORLD  WAR  II  SOURCES .  149 

INDEX .  153 


IX 


The  War  Department 


The  War  Department 


The  eight  volumes  comprising  The  War  Department  subseries  describe  the 
achievements  of  the  United  States  in  becoming  the  Allied  “arsenal  of  democracy” 
during  the  Second  World  War.  These  volumes  also  examine  how  the  process  of 
establishing  and  attaining  truly  astronomical  war  production  objectives  forever 
changed  the  structure  of  the  United  States  economy.  Highlighted  are  the  myriad  of 
problems  associated  with  the  allocation  of  limited  resources  and  the  organization  and 
the  processes  involved  in  the  execution  of  global  war  strategy.  The  volumes  reveal 
the  war  as  a  transitional  period  for  the  nation,  an  era  when  the  suspicions  and  fears  of 
entangling  alliances  were  replaced  by  an  era  of  international  cooperation  and 
integration.  This  subseries  thus  traces  the  story  of  the  hopes  and  fears,  the  triumphs 
and  struggles  of  the  Army  confronting  a  world  at  war,  and  the  monumental  changes 
it  undertook  to  meet  that  challenge. 


CHIEF  OF  STAFF:  PREWAR  PLANS  AND  PREPARATIONS.  By  Mark 
Skinner  Watson.  (1950,  1985,  1991;  551  pages,  5  tables,  4  charts,  11  illustrations, 
bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  1-1.) 

From  September  1 93  8  to  7  December  1 94 1  it  became  increasingly  probable  that  the 
United  States  would  have  to  fight  in  World  War  II.  The  central  theme  of  this  volume  is 
the  decisions  and  recommendations  made  by  General  Marshall  as  Chief  of  Staff  with  a 
view  to  preparing  the  Army  for  that  event.  The  author  explores  and  presents  the 
successive  situations  and  problems  that  confronted  the  Chief  of  Staff  in  making  these 
decisions  and  recommendations,  in  order  to  enable  the  reader  to  see  why  and  how  historic 
judgments  were  reached  and  then  to  show  how  and  through  whom  they  were  translated 
into  action.  Since  General  Marshall  and  the  officers  under  him  were  involved  in  almost 
every  problem  confronting  the  nation  in  the  decisive  years  covered,  this  book  is  a  slice 
of  national  history. 

Ini 938-39  the  Army  was  ill  prepared  even  to  defend  the  nation  against  attack;  the 
public  and  Congress  were  determined  to  avoid  war  and  ignorant  of  military  require¬ 
ments.  The  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States  was  in  debate,  and  the  policies  that  the 
President  followed  in  this  period  of  doubt  soon  raised  a  conflict  between  the  request  for 
aid  and  the  demands  of  national  rearmament.  Amid  this  confusion  the  services  had  to 
prepare  for  the  worst.  The  present  volume  is  an  account  of  the  methodical  and  often 
inspired  planning  and  preparations,  repeatedly  interrupted  and  readjusted,  but  pursued 


4 


READER'S  GUIDE 


until  order  emerged  from  confusion,  so  that,  despite  the  shock  of  Pearl  Harbor,  the 
nation  could  within  a  year  pass  to  the  offensive  in  a  two-front  war. 

Within  the  scope  of  the  Army ’s  own  planning  and  preparations  the  book  includes 
subjects  that,  for  the  period  after  Pearl  Harbor,  will  be  treated  in  many  separate 
volumes  of  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II — strategy,  logistics,  the 
mobilization  and  organization  of  men  and  industrial  resources,  recruiting  and  training 
of  troops  and  officers,  the  role  of  air  power,  and  the  defense  of  the  Western 
Hemisphere.  The  author  considers  these  and  other  topics  in  their  complex  interrela¬ 
tionships  during  the  instructive  early  period  of  uncertainty,  overstrain,  improvisation, 
trial  and  error,  and  radical  readjustments.  It  is  a  necessary  preface  to  the  accounts  of 
the  war  itself. 

Key  topics: 

1.  Military  unpreparedness  and  its  costs  (Ch.  II). 

2.  Rearmament  under  emergency  conditions  (Chs.  V-VII,  X,  XI). 

3.  Recruitment  and  mobilization  of  the  Army  (Chs.  VI,  VII). 

4.  Program  and  problems  of  training  (Ch.  VII). 

5.  The  aid-to- Allies  policy  versus  the  demands  of  rearmament  (Ch.  X). 

6.  The  concept  of  a  “balanced  force”  versus  the  President’s  policies  and  the  rise 
of  air  power  (Chs.  IV,  V,  VI,  IX). 

7.  Interrelations  of  foreign  and  military  policy  (Chs.  IV,  X,  XII,  XIII). 

8.  The  role  of  the  War  Department  General  Staff  in  prewar  strategic  planning 
(Chs.  I,  IV,  XII,  XIII;  see  Index:  “War  Plans  Division”). 

9.  Early  difficulties  in  coordinating  military  plans  and  industrial  production  (Chs. 
IV-VI,XI). 

10.  Progress  toward  a  comprehensive  supply  plan:  the  Victory  Program  (Chs.  X, 
XI). 

11.  Movement  toward  air  autonomy  within  the  Army  (Chs.  II,  IV,  IX;  see  also 
Index:  “Army  Air  Forces”). 

12.  The  Chief  of  Staff  and  Congress  (Chs.  I,  VI,  VII;  see  Index:  “Congress”). 

13.  Coordination  of  U.S.  and  British  plans  and  policies  (Chs.  IV,  X,  XII). 

14.  Prewar  organization  for  the  control  of  the  Army,  through  the  Chief  of  Staff,  and 
its  coordination,  particularly  with  the  Navy  (Chs.  I,  III). 

15.  Evolution  of  the  General  Staff,  1921^-1  (Ch.  III). 

16.  The  origins  and  adoption  of  lend-lease  (Ch.  X). 

17.  Preparations  to  defend  the  Western  Hemisphere  (Ch.  XIV). 

18.  The  decision  to  reinforce  the  Philippines  (Ch.  XIII). 

19.  The  War  Department’s  share  in  the  responsibility  for  the  surprise  at  Pearl  Harbor 
(Ch.  XV). 

20.  General  Marshall  and  the  principle  of  unity  of  (inter- Allied)  command  (Ch.  XII). 

21.  Selection  and  promotion  of  officers  (see  Index:  “Officers”). 


WASHINGTON  COMMAND  POST:  THE  OPERATIONS  DIVISION.  By  Ray 

S.  Cline.  (1951,  1985,  1990;  413  pages,  4  charts,  4  illustrations,  2  appendixes, 
bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  1-2.) 


THE  WAR  DEPARTMENT 


5 


This  is  the  history  of  the  agency  through  which  General  George  C.  Marshall 
exercised  his  paramount  authority  over  the  Army’s  activities,  at  home  and  overseas, 
from  9  March  1 942  to  the  end  of  the  war.  From  the  Operations  Division  (OPD)  he  staffed 
his  relations  with  the  Navy  and  with  other  authorities,  national  and  international.  The 
Operations  Division  was  also  the  source  within  the  War  Department  on  which  General 
Marshall,  both  as  the  Army  Chief  of  Staff  and  as  a  member  of  the  Joint  and  Combined 
Chiefs  of  Staff,  relied  for  advice  and  assistance  in  matters  of  strategy. 

OPD,  originally  called  War  Plans  Division  ( WPD),  was  a  division  of  the  General 
Staff,  added  to  the  “Gs”  in  1921.  The  reorganization  of  the  War  Department  in 
March  1 942  pushed  other  divisions — G-l ,  G-3,  and  G~A — back  into  a  position,  then 
orthodox,  that  has  been  described  as  “thinking  about  military  activities  without 
participating  in  them."  Moving  at  the  same  time  in  the  opposite  direction,  that 
reorganization  converted  WPD  into  a  central  command  post,  with  the  operative 
functions  of  a  field  headquarters.  OPD,  a  whole  staff  in  itself,  coordinated  the  other 
General  Staff  divisions,  the  three  continental  commands  (Army  Ground  Forces, 
Army  Air  Forces,  and  Army  Service  Forces),  and  the  Army  commands  overseas, 
including  the  great  theaters  of  operations.  OPD  prepared  General  Marshall’ s  orders 
to  overseas  commands  and  represented  their  views  and  needs  to  him.  It  became  in 
effect  his  global  command  post.  Through  OPD  he  projected  the  strategic  and 
operational  views  of  the  Army  and  its  requirements  in  manpower  and  materiel  across 
the  whole  field  of  wartime  activities. 

OPD  was,  in  short,  the  organizational  solution  applied  to  the  knottiest  problem 
of  high  command,  reconciling  the  requirements  of  administrative  and  operational 
decentralization  with  the  necessity  for  effective  supervision  and  unified  control  of 
worldwide  operations.  The  present  volume  is  an  “institutional  biography’’  of  this 
agency,  on  which  General  Marshall  relied  heavily  to  give  effect  to  his  authority  as 
supreme  Army  commander.  Its  origins,  problems,  conflicts,  organization,  person¬ 
nel,  development,  and  effectiveness  and  the  methods  and  influence  of  its  successive 
chiefs  (Maj.  Gen.  Dwight  D.  Eisenhower,  Lt.  Gen.  Thomas  T.  Handy,  and  Lt.  Gen. 
John  E.  Hull)  and  their  principal  assistants  can  here  be  studied  in  detail. 

The  light  this  study  throws  on  the  relations  of  staff  assistance  and  command 
gives  it  a  special  value  for  officers  preparing  for  General  Staff  duty.  The  precedents 
it  presents  and  the  analogies  it  suggests  make  it  invaluable  as  an  aid  in  the  recurrent 
search  for  effective  organization  at  the  center  of  national  military  authority. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Evolution  of  the  mechanism  of  strategic  planning  (Army)  before  and  during  the 
war,  with  emphasis  on  staff  systems  and  procedures  (Chs.  II,  IX,  X,  XII,  XVII).  (For  the 
substantive  history  of  strategy  in  World  War  U,  see  the  volumes  on  Strategic  Planning 
for  Coalition  Warfare.) 

2.  The  Army’s  concepts  and  influence  in  the  development  of  American  and  Allied 
strategy  (Chs.  IX,  XII,  XVII). 

3.  The  linkage  of  strategic  planning  with  the  effective  direction  of  operations  (Chs. 
XI,  XV). 

4.  The  coordination  of  the  zone  of  interior  and  active  theaters  in  a  war  fought 
overseas  (Chs.  IX,  X,  XIV). 


6 


READER'S  GUIDE 


5.  The  mechanics  and  operation  of  the  joint  staff  committees  before  and  during 
World  War  II  (Chs.  II,  XIII-XI V). 

6.  Coordination  of  military  planning  and  foreign  policy  in  war  (Chs.  VI,  XVI). 

7.  The  role  and  functioning  of  the  General  Staff,  War  Department  (Chs.  I,  II,  VI). 

8.  Structure  and  functioning  of  the  War  Department,  1921-42  (Chs.  I-VII). 

9.  Failure  of  staff  work  as  a  factor  in  the  surprise  at  Pearl  Harbor  (Ch.  V). 

10.  GHQ  and  WPD,  194CM2  (Chs.  II,  IV).  (For  a  supplementary  account,  see 
“Origins  of  the  Army  Ground  Forces:  General  Headquarters,  United  States  Army, 
194CM-2,”  in  The  Organization  of  Ground  Combat  Troops,  pp.  1-156.) 

1 1 .  Wartime  conferences  of  the  Allies,  with  emphasis  on  staff  preparations  and 
procedures  in  debate:  Arcadia  (Ch.  V);  Casablanca,  Trident,  Quadrant,  and 
Sextant  (Ch.  XII). 

12.  Bolero  planning  (Ch.  IX). 

13.  Planning  for  Sledgehammer,  Roundup,  Husky,  Overlord,  and  Anvil 
(see  Index). 

14.  Planning  for  Torch  (Ch.  X). 

15.  Planning  for  the  final  defeat  of  Japan,  including  the  decision  to  use  the  atom 
bomb  (Ch.  XVII). 

16.  Comparison  of  OPD  with  organization  of  the  Army  General  Staff  under  the 
National  Security  Act  of  1947  (Ch.  XVIII). 

STRATEGIC  PLANNING  FOR  COALITION  WARFARE:  1941-1942.  By 

Maurice  Matloff  and  Edw  in  M.  Snell.  (1953,  1986,  1990;  454  pages,  3  charts,  12 
illustrations,  7  appendixes,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  1-3.) 


Strategy  means  strategic  concepts,  plans  for  executing  these  concepts,  and  an 
application  of  national  power  designed  to  bring  the  enemy  to  terms.  In  World  War 
II  the  production  of  strategic  plans  became  a  major  industry  in  the  military 
establishment.  The  main  theme  of  this  book  is  the  history  of  that  industry,  as  far  as 
the  War  Department  was  concerned,  to  the  end  of  1942. 

The  basic  strategic  concepts  of  the  Allies  were  embodied  in  the  decisions  reached 
in  1941  to  treat  Germany  as  the  number  one  enemy  and  to  wage  unlimited  war.  This 
book  is  focused  on  the  process  by  which  these  concepts  were  translated  into  strategic 
plans.  It  tells  how  national  strategic  plans  were  made,  unmade,  and  remade.  More 
particularly  the  authors  are  concerned  with  the  Army’s  concepts  of  strategy  and  its 
efforts  to  get  them  accepted.  Their  book  is  therefore  indispensable  to  military 
planners.  But  the  treatment  is  so  broadly  conceived  and  so  thorough  that  the  book 
brings  a  wealth  of  information  to  bear  on  the  whole  picture  of  Allied  strategy.  It  lights 
up,  on  the  one  hand,  the  evolution  of  strategic  concepts.  It  includes  the  discussions 
of  the  Allies  in  the  great  conferences  where  the  fate  of  the  Army ’s  plans  and  proposals 
was  finally  decided. 

The  volume  follows,  on  the  other  hand,  the  search  for  forces,  supplies,  and  ships 
with  which  to  achieve  the  strategic  objectives  decided  on  as  necessary  and  feasible. 
Using  all  the  available  information  on  its  theme  in  American  records,  it  is  an 
organized  account  of  what  it  meant  (and  may  mean  again),  in  terms  of  American 


THE  WAR  DEPARTMENT 


7 


thought  and  military  potentials  and  the  requirements  of  combined  action,  to  prepare 
for,  plan,  and  mount  a  global  coalition  war. 

For  the  student  of  strategy  this  volume  has  a  special  value  because  it  deals  with 
a  period  of  beginnings.  It  was  a  time  of  political  indecision,  extreme  military  anxiety, 
grave  disappointments,  meager  resources,  and  “cut  and  try”  in  an  incessant  effort  to 
keep  strategic  plans  realistic.  Army  planners  had  to  resolve  continued  differences 
between  their  views  and  those  of  the  Navy,  and  American  planners  had  to  learn  how 
to  deal  with  the  British,  who  in  this  period  were  urging  plans  which,  although  framed 
within  agreements  “in  principle,”  were  diametrically  opposed  to  those  of  the 
Americans.  Throughout  the  period  American  planners,  groping  for  procedures  that 
would  be  effective  in  dealing  with  these  and  their  other  problems,  were  acting  without 
adequate  precedents  in  American  experience  and  without  an  organized  record  of  such 
precedents  as  existed.  The  lessons  they  learned,  as  these  developed  from  the 
circumstances  of  the  time,  are  here  set  forth  for  the  benefit  of  their  successors. 

Key  topics: 

1.  The  interplay  of  military,  political,  economic,  and  sentimental  factors  in 
determining  what  to  do  and  when  to  do  it  (Chs.  I,  II,  IV,  VIII,  XII,  XVII). 

2.  Interaction  of  deployment  and  strategic  concepts  (Chs.  VI,  VII,  XIV, 
XVI). 

3.  Coordination  of  strategic  planning  and  immediate  military  demands  (Chs.  Ill, 
IX,  X,  XV,  XVI). 

4.  The  role  of  logistical  feasibility  (Ch.  XVI;  this  subject  is  extensively  treated  in 
Global  Logistics  and  Strategy :  1940-1943). 

5.  Planning  against  scarce  resources  (Chs.  V,  VII,  IX,  XVI). 

6.  Correlation  of  strategy  with  industrial  potentials  (Chs.  Ill,  XVI). 

7.  Problems  of  planning  for  a  two-front  global  war  (Chs.  I,  III,  V,  VII). 

8.  Encirclement  and  peripheral  attrition  versus  concentration  on  a  knockout  blow 
(Chs.  II,  V,  VII,  VIII,  XVII). 

9.  Differences  between  the  strategic  outlook  of  the  Army  and  the  Navy  and  their 
coordination  (Chs.  VII,  X,  XII,  XIII). 

1 0.  Integration  of  air  concepts  and  plans  with  those  of  the  Army  and  Navy  (Chs. 
II,  VI,  VII,  XV,  XVII). 

1 1 .  Prewar  evolution  of  the  Orange  and  Rainbow  plans  (Chs.  I-IV). 

12.  Anglo-American  staff  conversations  (ABC-1;  Arcadia)  (Chs.  Ill,  V). 

13.  The  Victory  Program  (Chs.  Ill,  VIII;  more  fully  treated  in  Chief  of  Staff: 
Prewar  Plans  and  Preparations,  Global  Logistics  and  Strategy:  1940-1943,  and  The 
Army  and  Economic  Mobilization). 

14.  Evolution  of  the  BOLERO  concept  and  plan  as  an  Army  contribution  to 
American  strategy  (Chs.  VII-VIII;  see  also:  Washington  Command  Post:  The 
Operations  Division, Global  Logistics  and  Strategy:  1940-1943,  and  Cross-Channel 
Attack). 

1 5.  The  effect  of  limited  warfare  in  the  Pacific  on  deployment  for  unlimited  war 
(Chs.  VII,  IX-XII,  XVI). 

16.  The  presidential  decision  to  invade  North  Africa  (Torch)  and  its  effect  on 
American  deployment  and  strategic  plans  (Chs.  XII-XIV). 


8 


READER'S  GUIDE 


17.  The  introduction  of  the  President’s  unconditional  surrender  formula  (Ch. 
XVII). 

18.  Anglo-American  plans  and  Soviet  expectations  (Chs.  VI,  IX,  X,  XII,  XV). 

19.  The  strategic  outlook  of  the  United  States  on  the  eve  of  the  Casablanca 
Conference,  January  1943  (Ch.  XVII). 


STRATEGIC  PLANNING  FOR  COALITION  WARFARE:  1943-1944.  By 

Maurice  Matloff.  (1959,  1970;  640  pages,  5  tables,  1  map,  26  illustrations,  5 
appendixes,  bibliographical  note  and  guide  to  footnotes,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub 

1-4.) 

In  this  volume  Dr.  Matloff,  coauthor  of  the  preceding  volume,  carries  the  subject 
forward  from  the  conference  at  Casablanca  (January  1943)  through  the  second 
Allied  conference  at  Quebec  (September  1944),  applying  essentially  the  same 
methods  and  approach  as  in  the  earlier  volume. 

During  these  years  General  Marshall  and  his  strategic  planners  had  to  grapple 
with  the  problems  of  the  offensive  phase  of  coalition  warfare.  The  book  is  a  carefully 
studied  and  thoroughly  documented  exposition  of  the  American  case  for  concentra¬ 
tion,  first  against  Germany,  then  against  Japan. 

While  the  author  looks  at  the  war  through  the  eyes  of  the  Washington  high 
command,  he  looks  at  the  whole  war,  in  order  to  explain  American  thought  and  the 
measures  that  the  American  war  leaders  took.  The  reader  will  therefore  find  here  a 
study  of  the  positions  of  Great  Britain,  the  USSR  (Union  of  Soviet  Socialist 
Republics),  and  China  and  of  their  leaders,  Churchill,  Stalin,  and  Chiang  Kai-shek, 
as  well  as  of  Roosevelt  and  the  American  military  chiefs,  as  they  sought  to  resolve 
strategic  and  political  problems. 

Their  proposals  were  tested  in  the  debates  at  the  great  conferences  of  the 
coalition,  and  this  volume  contains  a  full  account  of  five  of  the  most  important  of 
these:  Casablanca,  Trident  (at  Washington,  May  1943),  Quebec  (August  1943), 
Cairo-Tehran  (November-December  1943),  and  second  Quebec.  The  period  cov¬ 
ered  witnessed  the  triumph  of  the  proposal  for  which  the  Americans  most  vigorously 
contended — a  massive  drive  at  the  heart  of  Germany  at  the  earliest  possible  date, 
finally  set  for  early  June  1 944.  In  his  exposition,  the  author  gives  ample  space  to  the 
development  of  a  strategy  for  the  defeat  of  Japan,  which  was  primarily  an  American 
responsibility.  In  accounting  for  the  final  adoption  of  the  grand  design  of  Allied 
strategy,  he  describes  the  increasing  proficiency  of  the  Americans  in  the  art  of 
military  negotiation  and  diplomacy  and  the  effect  on  strategy  of  the  growing  military 
weight  of  the  United  States  and  the  USSR  in  the  coalition. 

As  in  the  first  volume,  American  planning  is  related  at  every  step  to  its  basis  in 
American  resources  of  industrial  capacity  and  manpower,  in  the  war  aims  of  the 
government,  and  in  public  support  of  the  war.  The  crisis  of  adjustment  to  recognition 
in  the  fall  of  1942  of  the  approaching  limitations  of  manpower  available  for 
conversion  into  fighting  forces;  the  increasing  investment  in  air  power;  and  General 
Marshall’s  decision  to  limit  American  ground  combat  strength  to  ninety  divisions 


THE  WAR  DEPARTMENT 


9 


are  described  in  their  relation  to  strategy.  In  these  critical  decisions  on  military 
policy,  as  well  as  in  his  role  in  decisions  on  strategy  under  debate  with  America’s 
allies.  General  Marshall  emerges  as  the  principal  American  architect  of  military 
victory. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  The  interplay  of  military,  economic,  and  political  factors  in  strategic  decisions 
(Introduction.  Chs.  I,  VI,  VII,  X,  XI,  XVI,  XXI). 

2.  Interaction  of  strategic  concepts  and  the  requirements  of  logistics  and  deploy¬ 
ment  (Chs.  II,  XI,  XIV,  XVI,  XVII,  XVIII,  XX,  XXIII).  (For  this  and  the  following 
topic,  see  also  both  Global  Logistics  and  Strategy  volumes.) 

3.  The  influence  of  problems  of  production  and  manpower  on  strategy  (Introduc¬ 
tion,  Chs.  V,  VIII,  XI,  XVII,  XVIII,  XXIII). 

4.  Concentration  on  a  knockout  blow  versus  a  strategy  of  encirclement  and 
peripheral  attrition  (Introduction,  Chs.  I,  II,  III,  VI,  VIII,  X,  XI,  XVI,  XVIII,  XX). 

5.  Divergences  in  strategic  outlook  of  the  Army  and  Navy  and  their  coordination 
(Chs.  II,  IV,  IX,  XIV,  XX,  Epilogue). 

6.  Integration  of  air  concepts  and  plans  with  those  of  the  ground  forces  and  Navy 
(Chs.  I-IV,  VI,  IX,  XIV). 

7.  Techniques  of  military  diplomacy  and  negotiation  (Chs.  I,  V,  VI,  X,  XIII,  XV, 
XVI,  XXIII). 

8.  Relations  between  military  planning  and  war  aims  (Introduction,  Chs.  I,  XV, 
XVI,  XVIII,  XXII,  XXIII,  Epilogue). 

9.  President  Roosevelt  as  Commander  in  Chief  and  war  leader  (Introduction,  Chs. 
I,  V,  VI,  X,  XV,  XVI,  XXI,  XXIII,  Epilogue). 

10.  The  major  international  conferences  of  midwar  (Chs.  I,  VI,  X,  XIII,  XVI, 
XXIII). 

11.  Problems  of  limited  versus  unlimited  war  (Introduction,  Chs.  XIV.  XVII,  XX, 
XXHI,  Epilogue). 

12.  The  effect  on  coalition  strategy  of  changes  in  the  balance  of  military  power 
within  the  coalition  (Chs.  XVI,  XXII,  XXIII,  Epilogue). 

13.  The  unconditional  surrender  formula  as  a  war  aim  (Chs.  I,  XVI,  XVIII,  XXIII, 
Epilogue). 

14.  The  Overlord  decision  in  its  global  framework  (Chs.  VHI,  X-XIII,  XV-XVI). 

15.  The  decision  to  limit  the  U.S.  ground  army  to  ninety  divisions  (Chs.  V,  VIII,  XVHI). 

1 6.  The  Combined  Bomber  Offensive,  the  B-29,  and  the  role  of  air  power  (Chs.  I. 
Ill,  IV,  VI,  IX,  X,  XIV,  XIX,  XXI,  Epilogue). 

1 7.  Anglo-American  plans  and  Soviet  expectations  (Introduction,  Chs.  I,  XIII,  XVI, 
XXII,  Epilogue). 

1 8.  The  China  problem  in  politico-military  strategy  (Introduction,  Chs.  IV,  VI,  IX. 
X,  XIV,  XVI,  XIX,  XXI,  Epilogue). 

19.  Paralleling  Pacific  with  Mediterranean  advances  (Chs.  IV,  IX,  XIV,  XVI). 

20.  The  decision  for  the  southern  France  operation  (Chs.  XVI,  XVIII,  XXI). 

21.  The  problem  of  neutrals:  Spain  and  Turkey  (Chs.  I,  II,  XI,  XVIII,  XXII). 

22.  Expansion  and  distribution  of  American  military  power  (Chs.  XVII,  XXIII, 
Apps.  A,  D,  E). 


10 


READER'S  GUIDE 


GLOBAL  LOGISTICS  AND  STRATEGY:  1940-1943.  By  Richard M.  Leighton 
and  Robert  W.  Coakley.  (1955,  1984;  780  pages,  25  tables,  19  charts,  9  maps,  59 
illustrations,  9  appendixes,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  1-5.) 

This  volume  covers  U.S.  Army  logistics,  primarily  of  ground  forces,  in  its  relation 
to  global  strategy  during  the  period  of  American  preparation  for  W orld  W ar  II  and  the 
first  eighteen  months  of  participation.  It  forms  the  capstone  for  the  structure  of 
histories  dealing  with  logistical  activities,  of  which  such  theater  histories  as  Logistical 
Support  of  the  Armies  and  The  Persian  Corridor  and  Aid  to  Russia,  the  War 
Department  volumes  on  materiel  procurement  and  industrial  relations,  and  the 
technical  service  volumes  provide  the  base.  It  is  a  companion  piece  to  Strategic 
Planning  for  Coalition  Warfare:  1941-1942  and  Washington  Command  Post:  The 
Operations  Division,  since  it  treats  logistics  on  the  same  general  plane  as  that  on 
which  these  volumes  treat  strategy. 

The  point  of  view  is  that  of  the  central  administration  in  Washington — Joint  and 
Combined  Chiefs  of  Staff,  the  War  Department  General  Staff,  and  the  Services  of 
Supply.  The  dramatis  personae  are  the  officials  of  these  agencies  and  of  their  civilian 
counterparts  such  as  the  War  Shipping  Administration  and  War  Production  Board; 
theater  commanders;  the  U.S.  President  and  British  Prime  Minister  and  their  advisers; 
and  other  officials  of  the  Allied  governments.  The  major  areas  with  which  the  volume 
deals  are  those  that  most  concerned  the  high  command — global  aspects  of  transporta¬ 
tion,  division  of  resources  among  theaters,  allocation  of  materiel  to  Allied  nations, 
coordination  of  logistical  support  of  joint  Army-Navy  operations,  development  of 
effective  planning  techniques  for  anticipating  requirements  in  both  men  and  materiel, 
organizational  and  administrative  difficulties  in  mobilizing  and  expanding  the 
nation’s  military  power,  the  delicate  relationships  between  strategy  and  logistics,  and 
the  frictions  of  interagency  and  inter-Allied  coordination  in  these  fields.  The  most 
persistent  theme  is  the  chronic,  pervasive  competition  for  resources — between  the¬ 
aters,  between  services,  and  between  nations  engaged  in  a  coalition  war. 

The  story  of  logistical  plans  and  operations  is  developed  concurrently  with  that 
of  the  evolution  of  the  central  administration  that  carried  them  on.  This  evolution  of 
administration  involved  the  wartime  reshaping  of  Army  organization,  the  creation  of 
new  joint  and  combined  agencies,  and  the  definition  of  relationships  between  civilian 
and  military  authority  in  such  fields  as  shipping  and  war  production. 

The  emphasis  is  on  materiel  rather  than  personnel,  though  troop  shipping  and 
service  troops  are  treated  in  some  detail,  and  the  general  problem  of  military 
manpower  is  outlined.  Requirements  for  munitions  and  their  allocation  and  distribu¬ 
tion  provide  the  central  thread;  industrial  mobilization  and  war  production  are 
discussed  only  insofar  as  they  affected  these  processes.  In  the  prewar  period  the  focus 
is  on  materiel  shortages  and  competing  needs  of  the  expanding  U.S.  Army  and  those 
nations  to  whom  American  aid  was  pledged  under  the  Lend-Lease  Act.  This  theme 
continues  into  the  post-Pearl  Harbor  period,  but  the  emphasis  shifts  to  the  shortage  of 
shipping — the  primary  factor  in  shaping  all  strategic  and  logistical  plans  during  1 942 
and  early  1943.  The  volume  describes  how  the  American  effort  at  first  centered  on 
strengthening  positions  in  the  Pacific,  then  shifted  to  preparations  for  early  invasions 


THE  WAR  DEPARTMENT 


11 


of  Europe,  then  to  invasion  of  North  Africa.  Subsidiary  efforts  were  devoted  to 
supporting  the  British  in  the  Middle  East,  developing  supply  routes  to  the  USSR,  and 
securing  the  Allied  base  in  India  for  support  to  China.  The  result  was  a  dispersion  of 
resources  that  American  strategic  planners  vainly  resisted. 

Specific  logistical  problems  in  each  area  growing  out  of  this  dispersion  are  treated 
in  the  “operational”  chapters  (VI,  VII,  XIV-XXI);  concurrent  development  of 
policies,  procedures,  and  organization  for  the  long  pull  in  Chapters  VIII— XIII.  A  final 
section  (XXII-XXVI)  brings  all  of  these  developments  into  focus  in  the  period  of  the 
Casablanca  Conference  (January  1 943)  and  after.  Considerable  emphasis  is  devoted 
to  the  complexities  of  administering  military  lend-lease  aid — the  establishment  of  an 
Anglo-American  common  pool  of  supplies,  the  machinery  for  allocating  materiel 
from  it  in  accordance  with  strategic  need,  and  the  peculiar  problems  arising  in  the 
delivery  of  supplies  to  the  USSR,  China,  the  Middle  East,  and  French  North  Africa 
(III,  IV,  X,  XI,  X  VIII-XXI).  A  concluding  chapter  surveys  the  problems  of  logistical 
planning  and  salient  features  of  the  Army’s  logistical  effort  through  spring  1943. 

Key  topics: 

1.  Historical  development  of  the  logistical  function,  evolution  of  the  term 
logistics,  and  current  conceptions  of  its  meaning  (Introductory). 

2.  Expansion  and  rearmament  of  the  U.S.  Army  in  1940-41  and  Army  plans  for 
global  war(Chs.  I-V). 

3.  Organization  for  logistics — U.S.  Army,  joint,  and  combined  (Chs.  IX,  X,  XIII, 
XXIV). 

4.  Relation  of  military  requirements  programs  to  strategy  and  to  production 
capabilities  (Chs.  V,  VIII,  XI,  XXII,  XXIII,  XXVII). 

5 .  The  system  of  pooling  and  allocating  munitions  among  allies  in  a  coalition  war 
(Chs.  X-XI,  XVIII,  XXI). 

6.  Emergence  of  the  landing  craft  problem  in  1942  and  early  1943  (Chs.  XIV- 
XVII,  XXV). 

7.  Delivery  of  lend-lease  military  supplies  to  the  USSR  under  the  First  and  Second 
Soviet  Protocols  (Chs.  IV,  XX-XXI). 

8.  Specific  logistical  problems  of  operations  in  the  British  Isles,  Australia,  the 
Pacific  islands,  India,  China,  North  Africa,  and  Iran  in  the  perspective  of  global  supply 
and  shipping  requirements  (Chs.  XIV-XXI). 

9.  Case  studies  in  logistical  plans  and  preparations — expeditions  to  the  South 
Pacific  and  North  Africa  (Torch)  in  1942  (Chs.  VII,  XVI-XVII). 

10.  Impact  of  British  import  needs  on  the  Allied  military  effort  (Chs.  XXV- 
XXVI). 

11.  Army  supply  procedures  and  policies,  especially  for  overseas  supply;  the 
Army  system  for  calculating  requirements  and  distributing  scarce  items  (Chs.  XII, 
XIII,  XXIII). 

12.  Army  machinery  for  administering  military  lend-lease  (Chs.  Ill,  X). 

13.  Service  troop  requirements  (Chs.  XIII-XXI). 

14.  Procedures  and  organization  for  joint  Army-Navy  logistical  planning  and 
operations  (Chs.  VII,  XV,  XXIV). 


12 


READER'S  GUIDE 


GLOBAL  LOGISTICS  AND  STRATEGY:  1943-1945.  By  Robert  W.  Coakley 
and  Richard  M.  Leighton.  (1968.  1989;  889  pages,  34  tables,  5  charts,  8  maps,  49 
illustrations,  8  appendixes,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  1-6.) 

Like  its  predecessor.  Global  Logistics  and  Strategy:  1940-1943,  this  volume 
treats  U.S.  Army  logistics  from  the  point  of  view  of  the  high  command  and  staffs  in 
Washington;  it  continues  the  preceding  volume’s  narrative  from  the  spring  of  1943, 
on  the  eve  of  the  TRIDENT  Conference  in  May,  to  the  surrender  of  Japan.  Space 
limitations  have  precluded  coverage  of  the  logistical  issues  involved  in  repatriation, 
occupation,  and  disposal  of  surplus  property  in  the  immediate  aftermath  of  the  war. 
Together  the  two  volumes  form  the  capstone  of  the  logistical  histories,  of  which  the 
War  Department  volumes  on  economic  mobilization,  industrial  relations,  and  aircraft 
procurement;  such  theater  histories  as  Logistical  Support  of  the  Armies  (European 
theater)  and  The  Persian  Corridor  and  Aid  to  Russia ;  and  the  technical  service 
volumes  provide  the  base.  Viewing  logistics  and  strategy  as  parallel  and  interacting 
activities,  this  volume  treats  logistics  on  the  same  plane  as  the  War  Department 
volumes  on  strategic  planning  and  operational  direction  treat  strategy — for  example, 
from  the  point  of  view  of  the  central  administration  in  Washington.  The  immense  cast 
of  characters,  not  limited  to  faceless  agencies  such  as  the  Joint  and  Combined  Chiefs 
of  Staff,  the  War  Shipping  Administration,  the  War  Department  General  Staff,  and 
OPD  (Operations  Division  of  the  General  Staff),  includes  such  legendary  figures  as 
President  Roosevelt;  British  Prime  Minister  Churchill;  “Gissimo”  Chiang  Kai-shek; 
Generals  Marshall,  MacArthur,  and  Stilwell;  Admiral  King;  and,  of  course,  the  Army 
Service  Forces’  Commanding  General,  Lt.  Gen.  Brehon  B.  Somervell,  and  his  chief 
subordinate,  Maj.  Gen.  Leroy  Lutes. 

The  book  focuses  on  the  myriad  problems  involved  during  the  last  two  years  of 
World  War  II  in  the  division  of  resources  among  nations  and  theaters  in  a  global 
conflict  and  on  the  logistical  organization  and  processes  involved  in  the  formation  and 
execution  of  strategy.  This  broad  approach  results  in  the  same  omissions  that 
characterized  the  194(M-3  volume:  the  book  does  not  cover  detailed  logistical 
operations  at  lower  levels;  it  does  not  treat  internal  logistics  in  overseas  theaters  except 
as  necessary  to  establish  the  context  for  decisions  at  the  center;  and  it  is  primarily 
concerned  with  ground  force  logistics,  viewed  in  its  interactions  with  airfespecially 
strategic  air)  and  naval  logistics.  The  omitted  subject  areas  have  been  adequately 
covered  in  other  volumes  of  the  U.S.  Army  in  World  War  II  and  in  various 
publications  sponsored  by  the  Offices  of  Air  Force  History  and  of  Naval  History — 
upon  which  the  present  authors  have  drawn  heavily  in  preparing  this  volume. 

Unlike  the  1 940-43  volume,  this  work  employs  a  topical  approach  to  the  extent  of 
treating  supply  organization  and  procedures  (Part  2)  and  lend-lease  and  civilian  supply 
(Part  7)  in  groups  of  chapters  separate  from  the  mostly  chronological,  “operational” 
narratives  tracing  strategic-logistical  planning  for  the  great  offensive  campaigns  of  the 
Western  Allies  during  1 943^-5.  These  operational  chapters  also  treat  the  war  against  the 
European  Axis  (Parts  1,  3,  4)  and  the  war  against  Japan  (Parts  5,  6)  in  separate 
compartments,  while  still  making  clear  the  essential  interconnections  between  the  two. 
A  final  chapter  (XXXII)  analyzes,  in  broad  strokes,  the  evolving  relationship  between 


THE  WAR  DEPARTMENT 


13 


logistics  and  strategy  over  the  entire  span  of  the  war. 

Among  the  distinctive  and  valuable  contributions  of  these  two  volumes  to  the 
Army’s  official  World  War  II  history,  special  mention  should  be  given  the  examina¬ 
tion  in  depth  of  four  major  spheres  of  wartime  logistics:  foreign  aid,  assault  and  cargo 
shipping,  and  logistical  organization  and  method.  Foreign  aid  is  mainly  the  story  of 
lend-lease,  the  system  of  pooling  and  allocating  munitions  among  coalition  allies, 
primarily  to  the  British  Empire  and  the  Soviet  Union  (XXV-XXIX);  it  also  includes 
civilian  supply  (XXX,  XXXI):  the  responsibility  assumed  by  the  Army,  from  mid- 

1 943  on,  for  provision  of  essential  services  and  material  needs  of  civilian  populations 
in  liberated  and  occupied  territories.  Assault  shipping  (landing  ships  and  craft  and 
amphibian  vehicles)  was  an  indispensable  prerequisite,  hardly  foreseen  before  the  war 
and  tardily  and  grudgingly  recognized  after  it  began,  for  the  numerous  over-the-beach 
landings  on  hostile  shores  that  spearheaded  many  offensives  in  the  Atlantic,  Mediter¬ 
ranean,  Pacific,  and  Far  East  theaters.  The  emergence  of  the  problem  is  treated  in  the 
1940—43  volume;  this  book  describes  the  “crash”  production  programs  of  1943  and 

1 944  and  the  severe  limitations  that  shortages  of  this  critical  resource  imposed  on  the 
scope  and  range  of  virtually  every  amphibious  operation  from  mid- 1943  on.  Cargo 
shipping  was  the  basic  instrument  for  carriage  of  war  materiel  across  seas  and  oceans, 
and  thus  a  key  element  in  the  coordination  of  operations  in  a  multitheater  conflict.  In 
a  war  of  many  bottlenecks,  assault  shipping  and  cargo  shipping  were  the  most 
persistent  and  salient.  Organization  and  method,  probably  the  most  esoteric  aspects 
of  logistics,  are  nevertheless  its  inescapable  essence  in  what  Jomini  called  a  “science 
of  detail”  and  of  course  required  reading  for  future  planners  of  big  wars. 

Building  on  the  solid  foundation  laid  in  the  predecessor  volume,  this  study 
devotes  three  chapters  (IV,  V,  VI)  to  an  exposition  of  the  mature  wartime  system  of 
1943^45 — organization,  requirements/production,  and  wholesale  distribution — in¬ 
cluding  the  mysteries  of  the  joint  (such  as  Army-Navy)  logistical  system  and  its 
interaction  with  the  largely  civilian  machinery  for  management  of  the  war  economy. 
Three  more  chapters  and  parts  of  another  (XVI-XVIII,  XX,  XXIV)  describe  the 
complex  variations  of  the  system  developed  to  support  the  war  of  vast  oceanic 
distances  and  primitive  infrastructure  in  the  Pacific,  including  redeployment  for  the 
single-front  war  in  1945.  In  addition,  the  evolution  of  organization  and  method  is  a 
major  theme  of  the  foreign  aid  story  in  Chapters  XXV-XXXI. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  An  overview  of  logistics  in  World  War  II — major  trends  and  developments  (Ch. 
XXXII). 

2.  Strategic-logistical  planning  and  buildup  for  the  cross-Channel  invasion, 
1 943-44  (Chs.  I-III,  VII-X  V). 

3.  Strategic-logistical  planning  for  the  invasion  of  Sicily  (Chs.  II— III). 

4.  Strategic-logistical  planning  for  Allied  operations  in  the  Mediterranean,  1 943- 
45  (Chs.  VII-IX,  XI,  XIII-XV). 

5.  Strategic-logistical  planning  for  operations  in  the  China-Burma-India  Theater 
(Ch.  XXI). 

6.  Organization  and  processes  for  logistical  planning:  U.S.  Army,  joint,  and 
combined  (Chs.  IV-VI). 


14 


READER'S  GUIDE 


7.  The  role  of  logistics  in  strategic  planning  (Ch.  XXXII). 

8.  The  relation  of  military  requirements  to  strategy  and  production  capabilities 
(Chs.  V,  VI,  XXIII). 

9.  The  system  of  pooling  and  allocating  munitions  among  coalition  allies  (Chs. 
XXV-XXIX). 

1 0.  The  role  of  ocean  shipping  in  global  war  (Chs.  II,  III,  X,  XII,  XIV,  XV,  XIX, 
XXII,  XXIII). 

1 1 .  Assault  shipping  in  Allied  strategy  in  World  War  II  (Chs.  I— III,  VII-XV,  XVII, 
XX,  XXXII). 

1 2.  Assault  shipping  at  the  midwar  Allied  conferences  in  1 943  (Chs.  Ill,  VIII,  XI). 

13.  Military  lend-lease  to  the  USSR  in  the  later  war  years  (Ch.  XXVII). 

14.  Military  lend-lease  to  liberated  nations  in  World  War  II  (Ch.  XXVIII). 

15.  Military  lend-lease  to  Latin  America  in  World  War  II  (Ch.  XXVIII). 

16.  Military  lend-lease  to  China,  1 943 — 45  (Ch.  XXIX). 

17.  The  Army  and  civilian  supply  (Chs.  XXX-XXXI). 

1 8.  Joint  logistics  in  the  war  against  Japan,  1 943^44  (Chs.  XVI-XIX). 

19.  Army  logistics  in  the  Pacific,  1943^44  (Ch.  XX). 

20.  Logistics  of  the  one-front  war,  1945  (Ch.  XXIV). 


THE  ARMY  AND  ECONOMIC  MOBILIZATION.  By  R.  Elberton  Smith.  ( 1 959, 
1985;  749  pages,  63  tables,  4  charts,  1 1  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries, 
index,  CMH  Pub  1-7.) 

No  ingredient  of  the  power  with  which  the  Allies  inflicted  defeat  on  their  enemies 
in  World  War  II  is  less  in  dispute  than  the  overwhelming  superiority  in  the  materiel  of 
war  that  they  ultimately  developed.  Equally  evident  is  the  fact  that  the  United  States  took 
the  lead  in  producing  the  great  variety  and  huge  quantities  of  munitions,  military 
equipment,  supplies,  and  services  that  gave  them  this  superiority.  The  present  volume 
is  a  description  and  analysis  of  the  basic  problems,  policies,  and  procedures  with  which 
the  War  Department,  in  cooperation  with  almost  every  other  agency  of  government,  was 
concerned  in  carrying  out  a  nationwide  program  of  economic  mobilization. 

This  work  traces  the  foundations  of  the  achievement  in  the  nation’s  experience  of 
World  War  I  and  the  planning  for  economic  mobilization  with  which  the  War 
Department  was  charged  in  the  period  between  the  two  wars.  It  describes,  for  each  of 
the  major  substantive  areas  of  economic  mobilization,  the  nation’s  transition  from  a 
peacetime  status  through  the  eighteen-month  “defense  period”  to  the  achievement  of 
a  full-fledged  war  economy. 

Before  production  for  war  had  reached  its  peak,  planning  for  a  return  to  a  peacetime 
economy  began,  and  the  book  in  its  concluding  chapters  describes  this  and  the  operations 
by  which  the  vast  machine  was  dismantled  and  reconverted.  An  “epilogue”  chapter 
reviews  and  summarizes  the  effort  of  economic  mobilization  as  a  whole  and  presents  the 
author’s  conclusions. 

The  volume  concentrates  on  the  basic  issues  as  they  appeared  at  the  highest 
policy-making  levels  of  the  War  Department — the  Office  of  the  Under  Secretary  of 


THE  WAR  DEPARTMENT 


15 


War  and  the  staff  divisions  of  the  Headquarters  of  the  Army  Service  Forces. 
Nevertheless,  in  order  to  show  the  operational  effects  of  the  policies  adopted,  and  in 
turn  the  reciprocal  effects  of  operations  on  policy,  the  study  includes  many  of  the 
activities  of  the  Army’s  actual  procuring  arms  and  services. 

These  operations  are  set  forth  in  detail  in  the  volumes  of  the  United  States  Army 
in  World  War  II  devoted  to  each  of  the  technical  services.  The  present  volume,  in 
addition  to  forming  the  capstone  of  these  as  far  as  they  relate  to  economic  mobilization 
and  reconversion,  is  closely  related  to  such  others  in  the  series  as  both  Global 
Logistics  and  Strategy  volumes,  The  Army  and  Industrial  Manpower,  and  The 
Organization  and  Role  of  the  Army  Service  Forces.  It  may  also  be  read  to  advantage 
in  conjunction  with  the  various  histories,  official  and  unofficial,  that  describe  the 
wartime  activities  of  other  governmental  agencies  on  the  home  front. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  The  following  subject  areas  are  discussed  throughout: 

a.  Economics  of  war. 

b.  Relation  between  economic,  political,  and  other  factors  in  the  development 
and  administration  of  economic  control  systems. 

c.  Production  feasibility  of  wartime  requirement  programs. 

d.  Organization  and  administration  of  military  procurement;  military  versus 
civilian  responsibility  for  procurement;  quantities,  varieties,  and  special  characteris¬ 
tics  of  military  procurement  items. 

e.  Contract  placement  problems:  selection  of  contractors,  development  and 
use  of  the  negotiated  contract,  preliminary  contractual  instruments,  and  contract 
forms. 

f.  Wartime  pricing  problems:  effects  of  the  decline  of  competition  in  wartime; 
pricing  policy  as  a  means  of  economizing  real  resources;  dilemmas  posed  by  the 
requirement  of  “close  pricing”;  effects  of  ceiling  prices  upon  military  procurement; 
and  alternative  and  complementary  solutions  to  wartime  pricing  problems. 

2.  Problems  of  small  business  in  the  placement  and  administration  of  war 
contracts  (Ch.  XVIII). 

3.  Financing  of  military  and  industrial  facilities  (Chs.  XIX-XXI). 

4.  War  Department  procurement  planning — 1 920^40  (Ch.  III). 

5.  Nationwide  industrial  mobilization  planning — 1 920^10  (Ch.  IV). 

6.  Methods  of  determining  military  requirements  (Chs.  VI-VIII). 

7.  Nature  and  administration  of  Army  cost-plus-a-fixed-fee  contracts  in  World 
Warll  (Ch.  XII). 

8.  Pricing  in  fixed-price  contracts;  origin  and  development  of  progressive  pricing 
articles  (Ch.  XIII). 

9.  Contract  renegotiation — origin  and  nature,  principles,  policies,  and  results  in 
World  War  II  (Chs.  X  V-XVI). 

10.  Nature  and  administration  of  “tax  amortization”  provisions  for  rapid  write¬ 
off  of  capital  facilities  in  World  War  II  (Ch.  XX). 

1 1 .  Evolution  and  administration  of  the  priorities  system  in  World  War  II  (Chs. 
XXIII-XXIV). 


16 


READER'S  GUIDE 


12.  Origin,  adoption,  and  administration  of  the  Controlled  Materials  Plan  (Ch.  XXV). 

13.  Contract  termination  and  settlement:  basic  policies,  procedures,  and  results 
for  World  War  II  (Chs.  XXVII-XXIX). 


THE  ARMY  AND  INDUSTRIAL  MANPOWER.  By  Byron  Fairchild  and 
Jonathan  Grossman.  (1959, 1970;  291  pages,  3  tables,  2  charts,  bibliographical  note, 
glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  1-8.) 

The  administration  and  management  of  industrial  labor,  except  in  the  Army’s 
arsenals,  were  until  World  War  I  fields  remote  from  the  traditional  responsibilities  of 
the  Army.  In  World  War  II  the  War  Department  found  itself  drawn  into  these  areas 
to  an  unprecedented  extent,  not  only  by  its  concern  for  the  output  of  munitions,  but 
also  by  its  new  responsibilities  regarding  industry  in  such  fields  as  the  maintenance 
of  security  in  war  plants,  the  enforcement  of  labor  laws  and  policies,  and  the 
administration  of  facilities  forcibly  seized  by  the  government  to  avert  stoppage  of 
production  by  labor-management  disputes.  The  present  volume  is  not  intended  to  be 
a  comprehensive  treatise;  the  aim,  instead,  is  to  illustrate  by  discussion  of  selected 
topics  the  nature  of  the  problems  the  War  Department  faced  in  relation  to  the 
employment  of  industrial  manpower  and  the  policies  and  procedures  that  it  developed 
to  deal  with  them.  This  discussion  is  complementary  to  two  other  volumes  on  the 
subject  of  procurement,  economic  mobilization,  and  supply — The  Army  and  Eco¬ 
nomic  Mobilization  and  Buying  Aircraft:  Materiel  Procurement  for  the  Army  Air 
Forces — as  well  as  to  the  histories  of  the  technical  services. 

Given  the  experience  of  World  War  I,  the  concern  of  the  War  Department  with 
labor  problems  as  an  aspect  of  its  broad  responsibilities  for  procurement  was 
recognized  and  was  the  subject  of  planning  in  the  years  between  the  two  world  wars. 
The  labor  planning  and  the  organizational  developments  that  occurred  during  World 
War  II  are  described  in  Chapters  I  and  II,  which  provide  the  background  for  the  rest 
of  the  volume.  Chapters  III  through  V  constitute  a  discussion  of  the  restrictive  factors 
affecting  the  use  of  the  civilian  labor  force  that  either  were  anticipated  or  assumed 
important  during  the  war.  The  authors  next  consider  the  problem  of  labor  supply, 
which  gained  momentum  toward  the  end  of  1 943 ,  and  the  efforts  of  the  Army  to  meet 
it  (Chs.  VI  through  IX).  They  describe  the  measures  taken  to  recruit  additional 
workers  and  the  successful  special  project  technique  that  was  developed  to  deal  with 
labor  problems.  The  subject  of  Chapter  X  is  the  role  of  the  Army  as  an  instrument  for 
enforcing  the  labor  policies  of  the  government.  The  use  of  Selective  Service  and  the 
seizure  of  industrial  facilities  by  the  government  as  measures  of  enforcement  are 
described.  The  volume  concludes  with  a  discussion  of  the  attempts  to  obtain  the 
enactment  by  Congress  of  some  form  of  national  service  legislation  (Ch.  XI)  and  with 
a  brief  chronological  survey  (Ch.  XII). 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Labor  clauses  in  procurement  contracts. 

2.  Public  opinion  and  the  mobilization  of  labor. 

3.  Labor  supply  factors  in  contract  placements  and  cutbacks. 


THE  WAR  DEPARTMENT 


17 


4.  The  problem  of  minority  groups  in  war  industry. 

5.  The  employment  of  foreign  workers  and  prisoners  of  war. 

6.  The  use  of  soldiers  in  war  industry. 

7.  Compulsory  service  in  war  industry  versus  voluntary  labor. 

8.  The  relation  between  the  strength  of  the  Army  and  the  size  of  the  civilian  labor 
force. 


The  Army  Ground  Forces 


The  Army  Ground  Forces 


The  War  Department  and  the  Army  underwent  a  radical  reorganization  three 
months  after  the  United  States  entered  World  War  II.  That  reorganization  consoli¬ 
dated  the  undeployed  forces  of  the  Army  in  the  continental  United  States  under  three 
major  commands — the  Army  Ground  Forces  (AGF),  the  Army  Air  Forces,  and  the 
Services  of  Supply  (later  the  Army  Service  Forces).  It  also  vested  in  the  commanders 
of  the  first  two  of  these  great  commands  the  responsibilities  which  had  formerly  been 
exercised  by  the  chiefs  of  the  arms  and  made  these  commanders  responsible  for  the 
organization  and  training  of  the  combat  forces  of  the  Army.  These  volumes,  written 
during  and  immediately  after  the  war  by  historians  in  the  Headquarters,  AGF,  discuss 
the  exercise  of  those  responsibilities  by  that  headquarters  insofar  as  they  pertained  to 
the  size  and  organization  of  the  ground  combat  forces. 


THE  ORGANIZATION  OF  GROUND  COMBAT  TROOPS.  By  Kent  Roberts 
Greenfield,  Robert  R.  Palmer,  and  Bell  I .  Wiley.  (1947,  1983;  540  pages,  24  tables, 
1 1  charts,  5  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  2-1.) 

This  work  opens  with  a  history  of  General  Headquarters  (GHQ),  U.S.  Army, 
established  in  July  1940  under  the  direction  of  Lt.  Gen.  Lesley  J.  McNair,  who  would 
later  command  the  Army  Ground  Forces.  During  the  period  of  initial  mobilization 
General  Headquarters  had  the  responsibility  for  training  field  forces,  a  task  that  in  March 
1 942  was  given  to  the  Army  Ground  Forces.  The  history  of  GHQ  is  therefore  essential 
to  an  understanding  of  the  reorganization  that  brought  the  Army  Ground  Forces  into 
existence.  The  remainder,  and  greater  part,  of  the  volume  is  a  series  of  six  studies 
focusing  on  major  problems  presented  by  the  mobilization  and  organization  of  the 
ground  combat  army  and  the  efforts  of  General  McNair  to  solve  them.  A  final  study 
deals  with  the  reorganization  of  the  ground  forces  for  redeployment  against  Japan. 

The  unpleasant  discovery  late  in  1 942  that  the  dual  role  of  combatant  power  and 
“arsenal  of  democracy”  was  overtaxing  the  effective  resources  of  the  United  States, 
in  both  manpower  and  industrial  capacity,  together  with  a  continued  shortage  of 
shipping,  forced  the  government  to  reconsider  the  size  and  shape  of  its  military  forces. 
As  a  consequence  the  ground  forces  underwent  a  drastic  reorganization  to  meet 
limitations  imposed  by  higher  authority.  General  McNair  welcomed  this  as  an 
opportunity  to  produce  leaner  and  more  mobile  organizations  within  the  Army 
Ground  Forces  without  loss  of  firepower  and  with  a  gain,  as  he  believed,  in  capacity 
for  offensive  action.  In  general,  he  sought  economy  of  force  by  combating  the  swing 


22 


READER  S  GUIDE 


toward  specialization  that  had  occurred  as  the  traditional  arms  were  mechanized  and 
motorized  and  as  new  arms  sprang  up  around  the  development  of  instruments  of  war 
such  as  the  tank  and  tank  destroyer  and  antiaircraft  artillery.  He  sought  by  a  diversity 
of  means  for  a  better  balance  between  specialized  and  general  purpose  units.  He 
contended  also  for  a  better  balance  between  combat  and  service  forces.  The  two 
principles  on  which  he  counted  most  heavily  were  pooling  and  reinforcement.  Since 
economy  of  forces  continues  to  be  jeopardized  by  the  tendency  toward  specialization 
and  overweight  in  noncombat  elements,  the  successes  and  limitations  of  General 
McNair’s  drastic  experiment  in  1 943,  here  presented  and  analyzed  with  reference  to 
the  conditions  of  World  War  II,  should  be  instructive  to  those  responsible  for  the 
effectiveness  of  the  Army. 

For  the  student  of  national  policy  the  studies  in  this  volume,  particularly  the 
studies  of  mobilization,  have  an  instructive  bearing  on  the  question  of  how  large  an 
effective  force  the  United  States  can  deploy  in  a  war  fought  overseas. 

(In  the  lists  that  follow,  the  six  studies  comprised  in  this  volume  are  arbitrarily 
assigned  numerical  designations  1  to  6.) 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Training  of  field  combat  units  in  the  period  of  emergency,  1941^-2  (Study  1, 
Ch.  II). 

2.  Origins  of  antitank  and  tank  destroyer  doctrine  (Study  1,  Ch.  IV). 

3.  Early  plans  for  the  organization  and  use  of  armor  (Study  1,  Ch.  Ill)  and 
subsequent  modifications  (Study  4,  Ch.  V;  Study  5,  Chs.  I  and  III,  pp.  430ff.;  Study 
6,  Ch.  II). 

4.  Early  problems  of  air-ground  doctrine,  coordination,  and  training  (Study  1 ,  Ch. 
VII). 

5.  Strength  and  distribution  of  ground  forces  in  the  Army,  December  1 94 1— April 
1945,  with  analysis,  comments,  and  conclusions  (Study  2  and  table). 

6.  The  troop  basis  of  the  Army  in  World  War  II  (Studies  2  and  6). 

7.  Mobilization:  problems  and  history  in  World  War  II  (Study  3). 

8.  Mobilization:  effect  of  changes  in  war  plans  (Study  3,  Ch.  II). 

9.  Deceleration  of  the  rate  of  mobilization  to  meet  limitations  of  manpower, 
productive  capacity,  and  shipping  (Study  3,  Ch.  III). 

1 0.  Impact  on  the  troop  basis  of  events  in  theaters  of  operations  (Study  3,  Ch.  IV). 

1 1.  Mobilization  and  deployment  in  first  and  second  world  wars  compared 
(Study  3,  Charts  1  and  2). 

12.  Tactical  organization  of  the  Army  before  and  after  8  March  1942  (Study  4; 
Study  6,  Ch.  II). 

13.  Application  of  “streamlining”  and  the  principles  of  pooling,  flexible  control, 
and  reinforcement  to  the  tactical  organization  of  the  Army  in  1 943  (Study  4,  Chs.  Ill— 
V,  VII;  Study  5,  Ch.  I)  and  the  reaction  in  1945  (Study  6). 

14.  Integration  of  new  arms,  armor,  tank  destroyers,  antiaircraft  artillery,  and 
airborne  forces  into  the  ground  army  (Study  1 ,  Chs.  Ill,  IV,  VI;  Study  4,  Chs.  Ill,  V, 
VI;  Study  5). 

15.  Reorganization  for  redeployment  (Study  6). 

1 6.  Test  and  collapse  in  1 942  of  the  “GHQ  concept”  as  developed  between  1 92 1 


THE  ARMY  GROUND  FORCES 


23 


and  1940  (Study  1,  Chs.  I,  IX,  X). 

1 7 .  GHQ  as  a  command  post  for  the  control  of  overseas  commands  (Study  1 ,  Chs. 
I,  IX,  and  X;  for  transfer  of  this  function  to  OPD,  see  Washington  Command  Post:  The 
Operations  Division,  Chs.  II,  IV,  VI,  VII). 

1 8.  The  Army  ’s  role  in  amphibious  training,  1 940-42  (Study  1 ,  Ch.  V). 

1 9.  Organization  for  defense  of  the  continental  United  States  (Study  1 ,  Ch.  VIII). 

20.  Authorized  and  actual  enlisted  strength  of  troop  units  (Study  3). 

2 1 .  The  heavy  artillery  program,  1 942^14  (Study  3,  Chart  6,  and  Index:  “Heavy 
artillery”). 

22.  The  decision  in  favor  of  general  purpose  versus  highly  specialized  large  units 
(Study  4,  Chs.  V-VI). 

23.  Abandonment  of  the  “Type”  army  and  corps  and  the  extension  of  the  task 
force  principle  (Study  4,  Ch.  VII). 

24.  The  struggle  of  AGF  against  overhead  regarded  as  excessive  (see  Index: 
“Overhead”). 

25.  Experiment  with  light  divisions  (Study  3,  Ch.  VI). 

26.  Abandonment  of  specialized  divisions:  cavalry,  motorized,  mountain,  and 
jungle  (Study  3,  Ch.  VI). 

27.  Organization  of  new  arms  for  training  (Study  5,  Ch.  II). 

28.  Typical  redeployment  experience  of  a  division  (Study  6,  Ch.  IV). 

29.  Effect  of  the  point  system  (individual  demobilization)  on  redeployment 
(Study  6,  Ch.  I). 

30.  Discussion  of  the  total  size  of  the  ground  combat  force  that  the  United  States 
could  deploy  overseas  (Study  3). 

3 1 .  The  adverse  effects  of  mechanization  and  motorization  on  the  transportability 
of  ground  forces  and  their  mobility  in  the  field  (Study  4,  Chs.  II,  V,  and  VI). 

32.  Initial  organization  and  training  of  airborne  units  (Study  1,  Ch.  VI)  and 
changes  of  organization  in  1943  (Study  4,  Ch.  VI). 

33.  Conflicts  between  a  balanced  force  structure  and  the  demands  of  the  combat 
arms,  old  and  new  (Study  5,  Ch.  I). 

34.  Headquarters  organization,  including  the  problem  of  size  (see  Index:  “Head¬ 
quarters”). 


THE  PROCUREMENT  AND  TRAINING  OF  GROUND  COMBAT  TROOPS. 

By  Robert  R.  Palmer,  Bell  I.  Wiley ,  and  William  R.  Keast.  (1948,  1975,  1991;  696 
pages,  36  tables,  4  charts,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  2-2.) 

The  ten  studies  in  this  volume  (in  further  references  below  arbitrarily  assigned 
numerical  designations  1  to  1 0)  continue  the  series  published  in  The  Organization  of 
Ground  Combat  Troops.  Except  for  Studies  4  and  5,  which  deal  with  individual 
training  in  the  service  schools  of  the  ground  forces,  they  focus,  like  those  in  the 
previous  volume,  on  major  problems  of  the  Army  Ground  Forces,  the  solutions 
applied  to  them  by  that  command,  and  the  success  or  failure  of  those  solutions, 
considered  in  the  context  of  events  and  policies  ot  the  time. 


24 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Studies  4  and  5  describe  the  wartime  methods  and  operations  of  the  military 
school  system.  One  of  the  most  persistent  problems,  one  that  affected  all  the  others, 
was  that  of  procuring  quality  personnel  that  could  be  transformed  into  combat  troops 
capable  of  meeting  effectively  the  complex  requirements  of  World  War  II.  As 
measured  by  the  Army’s  general  classification  tests,  the  men  allocated  to  the  Army 
Ground  Forces  were  inferior  intellectually  and  physically  to  those  allocated  to  the 
Army  Air  and  Service  Forces,  as  well  as  to  those  recruited  by  the  Marine  Corps  and 
the  Navy.  Efforts  to  solve  this  problem,  never  fully  successful,  involved  specialized 
training  programs  and  constitute  a  subject  of  continuing  concern. 

Warned  by  the  experience  of  World  War  I,  the  War  Department  adopted  in  1 940  the 
policy  of  fully  preparing  its  combat  organizations  for  battle  before  shipping  them 
overseas.  General  McNair,  both  as  chief  of  staff  of  GHQ  from  1940  to  1942  and  as 
Commanding  General  of  the  Army  Ground  Forces,  made  the  training  of  large  forces  the 
principal  goal  of  his  efforts.  The  program  of  training  he  devised  to  this  end,  from  small- 
unit  training  to  the  maneuvers  of  corps  and  armies,  and  the  difficulties  and  disappoint¬ 
ments  he  encountered  in  applying  the  program,  receive  close  attention.  The  adverse 
effect  of  his  policy  on  the  training  of  the  smaller  nondi  visional  units  of  the  ground  forces 
is  described  in  Study  8.  General  McNair  also  inherited,  with  the  authority  of  the  chiefs 
of  arms  vested  in  him  in  March  1 942,  responsibility  for  the  procurement  and  training  of 
replacements  and  the  conduct  of  the  individual  training  of  officers  and  men  in  the  service 
schools  and  officer  candidate  schools  of  the  ground  combat  arms. 

The  replacement  system  broke  down  as  it  had  in  World  War  I.  The  consequent  crises 
in  the  procurement  and  training  of  replacements  are  described  in  Studies  3  and  6.  The 
changes  that  the  Army  Ground  Forces,  acting  through  its  Replacement  and  School 
Command,  introduced  into  the  service  schools  in  the  interest  of  economy  or  efficiency 
are  included  in  the  description  of  those  schools  in  Study  4.  Study  10,  on  redeployment 
training,  describes  changes  proposed  in  the  light  of  1 942—45  experience  as  well  as  those 
required  by  immediate  problems. 

Key  topics  (Org  is  used  in  the  lists  below  to  refer  to  this  work's  companion  volume 
The  Organization  of  Ground  Combat  Troops): 

1 .  Policies  and  problems  of  officer  procurement  (Study  2;  see  also  Org,  Study  1 ,  Ch. 

H). 

2.  Training  of  ground  units  for  combat  (Studies  7,  8,  9;  see  also  Org,  Index: 
“Training”). 

3.  Wartime  training  in  the  service  schools  of  the  ground  arms  (Studies  4  and  5). 

4.  The  building  and  training  of  infantry  divisions,  interferences  with  training,  and 
the  effect  of  these  (Study  7). 

5.  The  training  of  nondivisional  units  in  the  Army  Ground  Forces:  organization 
and  programs  (Study  8). 

6.  The  replacement  system  in  World  War  II  (Study  3;  see  also  Study  6  and  Study 
7,  Ch.  IV). 

7.  Replacement  training  (Study  6). 

8.  Effect  of  uncalculated  demands  on  programs  of  training  (Study  3,  Ch.  II;  Study 
6,  Ch.  IV;  Study  7,  Ch.  IV  and  Tables  2  and  4;  Study  8,  Ch.  Ill;  Study  9,  Ch.  Ill;  Study 
10,  Ch.  II). 


THE  ARMY  GROUND  FORCES 


25 


9.  Impact  of  unexpected,  or  concentrated,  losses  on  the  provision  and  training  of 
replacements  (Study  3,  Ch.  II). 

1 0.  The  Army  classification  system :  its  adverse  effect  on  the  ground  arms  (Study 
1,  Ch.  I). 

1 1 .  Effect  of  preferential  assignment  to  the  Army  Air  Forces  on  the  personnel  of 
the  Army  Ground  Forces  (Study  1,  Ch.  II). 

12.  The  Army  Specialist  Training  Program  versus  the  demand  for  higher  grade 
combat  troops  (Study  1,  Ch.  II). 

13.  Use  of  limited-service  men  in  AGF  units  (Study  1,  Ch.  II). 

14.  The  origins  and  effect  of  the  Physical  Profile  System  (Study  1,  Ch.  III). 

15.  Organization,  training,  and  testing  in  the  service  schools  (Study  4,  Chs.  II  and 
III). 

1 6.  Methods  used  to  ensure  readiness  of  units  for  deployment  overseas  (Study  9). 

17.  Testing  the  effects  of  training  (see  Index:  “Tests”;  also  Org,  Study  1,  Ch.  II, 
and  Index:  “Tests”). 

18.  Effects  of  the  policy  of  individual  (versus  unit)  battle  replacements  (Study  3, 
Ch.  III). 

19.  Officer  candidate  schools  (Study  5). 

20.  Organization  and  methods  of  the  replacement  training  centers  of  the  Army 
Ground  Forces  (Study  6). 

2 1 .  Adjustments  of  replacement  training  to  theater  requirements  (Study  6,  Ch.  IV). 

22.  The  stripping  of  divisions  for  replacements  and  its  effect  on  their  battle 
readiness  (Study  7,  Ch.  IV,  and  Tables). 

23.  Shortages  of  equipment  and  their  effect  on  training  (Study  7,  Chs.  II  and  III). 

24.  Organization  of  new  arms  for  training  (see  Org,  Study  5,  Ch.  II). 

25.  Use  of  maneuvers  as  a  training  device  (Study  1,  Ch.  II). 


The  Army  Service  Forces 


The  Army  Service  Forces 


This  subseries  describes  and  analyzes  the  military  management  of  a  vast  complex 
of  activities  which  during  World  War  II  fell  generally  into  the  field  of  logistics.  In 
March  1942,  in  order  to  free  General  Marshall  and  the  General  Staff  of  a  mass  of 
administrative  burdens,  operational  responsibility  for  the  continental  United  States 
was  delegated  to  three  major  commands:  the  Army  Ground  Forces  (Lt.  Gen.  Lesley 
J.  McNair),  the  Army  Air  Forces  (Lt.  Gen.  Henry  H.  Arnold),  and  the  Army  Service 
Forces — at  first  the  Services  of  Supply  (Lt.  Gen.  Brehon  B.  Somervell).  The  present 
volume  is  a  study  of  the  third  of  these  great  commands,  written  by  an  author  trained 
in  political  science  and  public  administration,  who  was  an  adviser  to  General 
Somervell. 


THE  ORGANIZATION  AND  ROLE  OF  THE  ARMY  SERVICE  FORCES.  By 

John  D.  Millett.  (1954,  1985;  494  pages,  3  tables,  7  charts,  8  illustrations,  9 
appendixes,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  3-1.) 

This  work  examines  World  War  II  from  the  viewpoint  of  the  Commanding 
General  of  the  Army  Service  Forces,  Lt.  Gen.  Brehon  B.  Somervell.  It  is  concerned 
with  problems  of  materiel  rather  than  manpower.  A  study  in  the  problems  of 
management,  it  deliberately  dwells  on  the  conflicts  which  arose  inside  and  outside  the 
command. 

As  a  result  of  the  1 942  reorganization  General  Somervell  became  the  commander 
of  the  supply  (“technical”)  and  administrative  services  and  of  the  nine  corps  areas  of 
the  United  States.  He  also  became  the  principal  adviser  to  the  Undersecretary  of  War 
and  the  Chief  of  Staff  on  logistical  matters  and  was  on  occasion  sent  by  them  as  a 
troubleshooter  to  theaters  of  operations.  Inside  the  War  Department  General 
Somervell’ s  interpretation  of  the  necessary  role  of  his  organization  brought  it  into 
conflict  with  the  powerful  Operations  Division  of  the  General  Staff  (OPD),  particu¬ 
larly  with  regard  to  the  relationship  of  strategy  and  supply  (which  are  explored  in 
Chapters  IV  and  V)  and  also  with  regard  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Army  Service  Forces 
over  the  strongly  entrenched  chiefs  of  the  supply  and  administrative  services. 

Outside  the  War  Department  the  Commanding  General,  Army  Service  Forces, 
clashed  with  the  War  Production  Board.  The  story  of  this  conflict  has  been  told 
elsewhere  from  the  point  of  view  of  the  War  Production  Board  (in  The  United  States 
at  War  [Washington,  1946],  a  publication  of  the  Bureau  of  the  Budget;  and  in 


30 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Donald  M.  Nelson,  Arsenal  of  Democracy  [New  Y  ork,  1 946] ).  In  the  present  volume 
the  position  of  the  Army  Service  Forces  is  fully  set  forth  (Chs.  XIII-XV),  the  lessons 
derived  from  this  conflict  are  discussed  (Ch.  XIX),  and  there  is  a  recital  of  the  less 
troubled  relationships  of  the  Army  Service  Forces  with  other  civilian  agencies  (Chs. 
XVI-XVII)  and  with  the  Navy  (Ch.  XVIII). 

General  Somervell's  capacity  as  a  manager  was  challenged  not  only  by  the 
vastness  of  his  command  but  even  more  by  the  diversity  of  tasks  and  agencies  for 
which  it  was  responsible.  The  work  gives  extended  attention  to  the  ASF  chief  s  efforts 
to  achieve  an  effective  organization,  particularly  to  his  efforts  to  coordinate  the 
technical  services  (Ch.  XX),  establish  a  unified  field  organization  for  service  activities 
(Ch.  XXI),  rationalize  his  huge  headquarters  (Ch.  XXII),  and  introduce  into  his 
command  continuous  improvements  in  management  (Chs.  XXIII,  XXIV). 

This  volume  presents  the  most  instructive  experiment  made  by  the  Army  before 
1 954  in  centralizing  the  command  of  logistical  operations.  To  complete  a  study  of  the 
activities  of  the  Army  Service  Forces,  the  reader  should  consult  other  volumes  in  the 
United  States  Army  in  World  War  II,  such  as  both  Global  Logistics  and  Strategy 
volumes,  The  Army  and  Economic  Mobilization,  The  Army  and  Industrial  Man¬ 
power,  and  Buying  Aircraft:  Materiel  Procurement  for  the  Army  Air  Forces; 
Washington  Command  Post:  The  Operations  Division,  Chs.  XIII-XI V ;  The  Persian 
Corridor  and  Aid  to  Russia ,  Chs.  X-XII;  and  the  volumes  in  the  technical  service 
subseries,  in  which  the  Army  Service  Forces  is  observed  from  the  point  of  view  of  its 
subordinate  commands. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Wartime  organization  of  the  continental  United  States  (the  zone  of  interior)  in 
a  war  fought  overseas  (Chs.  I,  II,  IX,  XX,  XXI,  XXIV). 

2.  Centralization  versus  decentralization  in  the  wartime  administration  of  supply 
in  the  zone  of  interior  (Chs.  XI,  XX,  XXI). 

3.  Coordination  of  the  distribution  of  supplies  between  the  zone  of  interior  and 
theaters  of  operations  (Chs.  Ill— V,  VII). 

4.  The  problem  of  command  relations  in  supplying  combat  forces  in  the  zone  of 
interior  (Chs.  VIII,  XI). 

5 .  Common  versus  separate  supply  for  ground,  air,  and  sea  forces  (Chs.  VIII,  XI, 
XVIII). 

6.  Relationships  and  conflicts  of  interest  between  military  and  civilian  authority 
in  the  control  of  procurement  and  industrial  mobilization  for  war  (Chs.  XIII-XVII, 
XIX). 

7.  The  relation  of  strategy  and  logistics  in  military  planning  (Chs.  Ill,  VII). 

8.  Use  of  a  “control”  agency  as  a  managerial  device  in  a  large  military 
organization  (Ch.  XXIII). 

9.  Civilian  versus  military  control  of  the  wartime  economy  of  the  United  States 
(Ch.  XIX). 

10.  Administration  of  military  lend-lease  supplies  (Chs.  Ill,  XVII).  (For  a  fuller 
treatment,  see  both  Global  Logistics  and  Strategy  volumes.) 

1 1 .  The  supply  aspects  of  the  reorganization  of  the  War  Department  in  March 
1942  (Ch.  II). 


THE  ARMY  SERVICE  FORCES 


31 


12.  A  case  study  of  the  problem  of  planning  versus  operational  activity  in 
defining  the  proper  authority  and  functions  of  the  General  Staff  (Chs.  I,  II,  VII,  X,  XII). 

13.  The  problem  of  controlling  the  size  of  military  headquarters,  for  which  a 
solution  was  not  found  in  World  War  II  (Ch.  XXII). 


The  Western  Hemisphere 


The  Western  Hemisphere 


The  aggressive  wartime  strategy  of  the  United  States,  concerted  with  its  European 
Allies,  into  which  it  launched  so  promptly  and  with  such  a  massive  deployment  of 
force  after  7  December  1941,  obscures  the  fact  that  its  declared  military  policy  before 
that  date  was  defensive.  In  November  1938  President  Roosevelt  enunciated  the 
doctrine  that  defense  of  the  continental  United  States  required,  as  the  military 
objective  of  the  nation,  defense  of  the  Western  Hemisphere.  This  fixed  the  official 
goal  for  the  efforts  of  the  War  Department  until  Pearl  Harbor,  and,  in  the  view  of  the 
authors  of  these  volumes,  dominated  its  plans  and  preparations  during  the  two  years 
preceding  the  Destroyer-Base  Agreement  of  September  1940.  Even  after  that  the 
requirements  of  hemisphere  defense  defined  the  framework  within  which  the  Army 
and  its  Air  Forces  put  into  effect  the  limited  preparations  and  actions  that  were  directed 
against  the  aggressions  of  Nazi  Germany  and  Japanese  imperialism.  The  areacovered 
in  these  two  volumes  is  vast  and  so  are  the  topics. 


THE  FRAMEWORK  OF  HEMISPHERE  DEFENSE.  By  Stetson  Conn  and 
Byron  Fairchild.  (1960,  1989;  470  pages,  1  map,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries, 
index,  CMH  Pub  4-1 .) 

The  new  military  policy  of  hemisphere  defense  enunciated  in  1 938  was  a  reaction 
to  the  increasing  offensive  potentiality  of  military  aircraft.  The  continental  United 
States  could  not  at  that  time  be  invaded  or  seriously  threatened  unless  the  attack  was 
backed  by  land-based  air  power.  Hostile  airplanes  in  significant  numbers  could  not 
then  be  projected  across  the  oceans,  but  they  could  be  launched  from  bases  established 
in  other  parts  of  the  Western  Hemisphere  within  striking  distance  of  the  United  States 
and  its  possessions.  The  basic  mission  of  the  armed  forces  under  the  hemisphere 
defense  policy  was  therefore  to  prevent  the  establishment  of  hostile  air  bases  in  the 
Western  Hemisphere.  Since  eastern  Brazil  seemed  to  offer  the  most  likely  initial 
location  for  such  bases,  it  became  the  focus  of  Army  plans  and  actions  for  hemisphere 
defense. 

In  the  early  summer  of  1 940  the  quick  defeat  of  France  and  seemingly  precarious 
position  of  Great  Britain  created  an  emergency  that  required  much  closer  military  ties 
between  the  United  States  and  the  other  New  World  nations.  Military  collaboration 
with  Canada  evolved  thereafter  with  a  minimum  of  friction  into  a  close  partnership. 
Since  the  Latin  American  nations  at  that  time  had  almost  no  military  strength  by 


36 


READER’S  GUIDE 


modem  standards,  the  United  States  had  to  assume  almost  complete  responsibility  for 
defending  them  against  external  attack.  At  the  same  time  it  had  to  avoid  any 
infringement — real  or  imagined — on  Latin  American  sovereignty.  Aided  by  the  trust 
inspired  by  the  “Good  Neighbor”  policy  of  preceding  years,  the  United  States 
persuaded  most  of  these  nations  to  accept  its  pledges  of  armed  support,  and  from  June 
1940  onward  it  entered  into  military  collaboration  with  them  to  an  unprecedented 
degree.  This  collaboration  included  a  military  association  with  Mexico  almost  as 
close  as  that  with  Canada — in  marked  contrast  with  the  hostile  attitude  of  Mexico 
toward  the  United  States  during  World  War  I.  The  groundwork  of  successful 
collaboration  with  the  other  New  World  nations  allowed  the  United  States  Army  to 
begin  to  deploy  its  offensive  strength  overseas  almost  immediately  after  the  Japanese 
attack. 

The  opening  chapters  of  the  present  volume  (I— VII)  are  an  introduction  to  this 
story  and  to  a  sequel  volume,  Guarding  the  United  States  and  Its  Outposts.  These 
chapters  trace  the  evolution  of  the  policy  of  hemisphere  defense  in  the  three  years 
before  Pearl  Harbor,  the  gradual  merging  of  hemisphere  defense  into  the  broader 
national  policy  of  opposing  German  and  Japanese  aggression  by  all-out  aid  to  peoples 
fighting  the  Axis,  and  the  quick  transition  to  offensive  plans  and  preparations  in 
December  1941.  They  describe  the  crises  that  faced  or  appeared  to  face  the  United 
States  in  May  1 940  and  again  in  May  1 94 1  (Chs.  II,  V),  the  nature  of  the  German  and 
Japanese  threats  to  the  Western  Hemisphere  (Ch.  Ill),  and  the  preoccupation  of  the 
United  States  with  the  perilous  situation  in  the  Atlantic  and  Europe  that  blinded  the 
nation  to  the  menace  of  Japan  in  the  Pacific  until  the  very  eve  of  open  conflict.  The 
next  three  chapters  ( VIII-X)  relate  the  general  plans  and  measures  of  the  United  States 
for  defending  Latin  America  against  attack  from  overseas  and  for  collaborating  with 
the  other  American  republics  toward  that  end.  The  chapters  which  follow  describe  the 
specific  steps  in  collaboration  with  Brazil  (XI-XII),  Mexico  (XIII),  and  Canada  (XIV- 
XV).  The  concluding  chapter  (XVI)  is  a  summary  and  interpretation. 

Key  topics: 

1.  The  background  and  development  of  war  plans  for  defending  the  Western 
Hemisphere  (Chs.  I-II,  IV-VII). 

2.  The  relationship  of  these  hemisphere  defense  plans  to  broader  war  plans  (Chs. 
II,  IV-VII). 

3.  The  transition  in  national  military  policy  from  hemisphere  to  world  defense 
against  aggression  (Chs.  I— VII). 

4.  The  nature  and  extent  of  German  and  Japanese  threats  to  the  American 
continents  (Chs.  Ill,  V-VII). 

5.  Military  negotiations  and  relationships  of  the  United  States  with  the  other 
American  nations  before  and  during  World  War  II  (Ch.  VIII). 

6.  The  supply  of  arms  to  Latin  American  nations  (Chs.  IX,  XI-XIII). 

7.  Preparations  for  Army  air  operations  in  the  Latin  American  area  (Ch.  X). 

8.  The  establishment  and  operations  of  U.S.  Army  forces  in  Brazil  (Chs.  XI,  XII). 

9.  Military  cooperation  and  collaboration  between  the  United  States  and  Mexico 
(Ch.  XIII). 

1 0.  Military  cooperation  and  collaboration  between  the  United  States  and  Canada 


THE  WESTERN  HEMISPHERE 


37 


(Chs.  XIV-XV;  treated  more  fully  in  Military  Relations  Between  the  United  States 
and  Canada:  1 939-1 945 ). 

1 1 .  U.S.  Army  operations  in  northern  Canada  during  World  War  II  (Ch.  XV). 

12.  Army-Navy  joint  action  and  relationships  in  support  of  hemisphere  defense 
plans  and  measures  (Ch.  I). 

13.  The  interplay  between  military  and  political  objectives  in  planning  and 
executing  hemisphere  defense  measures  (Ch.  I). 

1 4.  The  organization  and  strength  of  the  United  States  Army,  1 939-4 1  (Chs.  I— II, 
VI). 

15.  The  military  weakness  of  the  United  States  during  a  period  of  rapid 
mobilization  (Chs.  II,  IV-VI). 

16.  Army  plans  for  emergency  expeditionary  forces  (Chs.  I,  II,  IV-VII). 

17.  American  entry  into  the  Battle  of  the  Atlantic  (Chs.  I,  II,  IV-VI). 

1 8.  American  military  policy  and  plans  for  action  toward  European  possessions 
under  threat  of  hostile  control  (Chs.  I,  II,  IV-VII). 

19.  The  Destroyer-Base  Agreement  of  1940  (Ch.  II). 

20.  Plans  for  military  action  in  the  Azores,  Iceland,  and  other  Atlantic  areas  during 
1940  and  1941  (Chs.  IV-VII). 


GUARDING  THE  UNITED  STATES  AND  ITS  OUTPOSTS.  By  Stetson  Conn, 
Rose  C.  Engel  man,  and  Byron  Fairchild.  (1964,  1989;  593  pages,  5  tables,  1  chart, 
6  maps,  34  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  4-2.) 

This  volume  continues  the  discussion  begun  in  The  Framework  of  Hemisphere 
Defense  by  describing  how  the  Army  contributed  to  the  security  of  the  national 
bastion.  The  discussion  naturally  divides  itself  into  three  sections.  The  first  describes 
organization  of  Army  forces  for  protection  of  the  continental  United  States  before  and 
during  the  war,  including  elaboration  of  harbor  and  air  defenses;  the  Army’s  role  in 
civilian  defense;  and  protection  against  subversion  after  Pearl  Harbor,  including  a 
detailed  account  of  the  controversial  evacuation  of  persons  of  Japanese  ancestry  from 
the  West  Coast.  The  next  section  outlines  the  Army ’s  preparations  for  defense  of  the 
principal  outlying  possessions  of  Hawaii,  Alaska,  and  the  Canal  Zone  and  includes 
an  abbreviated  account  of  the  attack  at  Pearl  Harbor  and  the  Aleutian  Islands 
Campaign,  the  only  major  ground  operation  to  occur  in  the  hemisphere  during  the  war. 
The  third  section  explains  the  creation  of  Army  defenses  to  secure  the  Panama  Canal 
in  the  south  and  the  similar  outpost  line  erected  in  the  North  Atlantic. 

Governmental  decisions  to  participate  in  the  defense  of  Greenland  and  Iceland  are 
explained  as  the  culmination  of  American  defensive  measures  by  ground  and  air 
forces  before  the  United  States  became  a  belligerent  in  World  War  II.  Throughout, 
the  authors  stress  the  intimate  relationship  between  American  policy  and  the 
preservation  of  a  North  Atlantic  lifeline  to  Great  Britain,  as  well  as  the  direct 
relationship  between  security  of  the  Americas  and  the  operations  of  the  Royal  Navy. 
Two  other  issues  merit  special  mention.  First  is  the  tension  between  the  natural  desire 
to  use  a  limited  Army  to  defend  the  hemisphere  in  the  opening  days  of  the  war  and 


38 


READER’S  GUIDE 


the  need  to  use  those  same  soldiers  to  train  the  large  citizen  army  needed  to  pursue  the 
war.  Second  is  the  evolution  of  the  nation  from  a  defensive  to  an  offensive  posture, 
specifically  during  the  Coral  Sea,  Midway,  and  North  Africa  campaigns  in  view  of  the 
steadily  declining  threat  of  Axis  attacks  directed  at  the  United  States  proper. 

Key  topics: 

1.  Transition  from  peacetime  Army  command  and  organization  to  wartime 
organization  (Chs.  II,  III). 

2.  Problems  in  establishing  unity  of  command  among  the  services  for  hemisphere 
defense  (Ch.  IV). 

3.  The  defensive  problems  facing  the  United  States  as  a  continental  power 
isolated  by  two  oceans,  and  the  relationship  between  security  of  the  homeland  and 
offensive  action  in  overseas  theaters  (Ch.  III). 

4.  Defensive  preparations  in  the  outlying  possessions  of  the  United  States  during 
1940  and  1941  (Chs.  VII,  IX,  XII,  XIII). 

5.  Acquisition,  manning,  and  organization  of  new  bases  in  the  Atlantic  and 
Caribbean  in  1940-41  (Chs.  XIV,  XV). 

6.  Administrative  processes  leading  to  the  administration’s  decision  to  evacuate 
resident  enemy  aliens  and  Americans  of  Japanese  ancestry  from  the  western  states 
(Ch.  V). 

7.  Fighting  on  the  periphery  of  the  American  defensive  perimeter  in  1 94 1—42, 
including  Pearl  Harbor,  Alaska,  and  the  Panama  Canal  Zone  (Chs.  VII,  X,  XI,  XVI). 

8.  Establishment  of  wartime  bases  in  Greenland  and  Iceland  (Chs.  XVII,  XVIII, 
XIX,  XX). 


The  War  in  the  Pacific 


The  War  in  the  Pacific 


The  volumes  of  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II  devoted  to  the  war  in  the 
Pacific  form  a  comprehensive  account  which  should  be  of  interest  both  to  soldiers  and 
civilians.  Each  volume  is  complete  in  itself  and  can  be  read  independently.  (Cross 
references  guide  the  reader  to  other  volumes  for  additional  information.)  The 
emphasis  throughout  is  on  the  U.S.  Army,  but  operations  of  the  U.S.  Navy,  Air 
Forces,  and  Marines,  as  well  as  those  of  Allied  nations,  are  covered  in  summary  where 
they  are  related  to  the  Army’s  operations  or  when  they  had  an  important  or  decisive 
effect  on  the  outcome.  The  level  of  treatment  and  the  amount  of  detail  included  vary 
with  each  volume  and  are  determined  by  the  nature  of  the  operation.  Each  book 
includes  sufficient  material  on  strategy,  logistics,  and  the  activities  of  supporting  arms 
and  services  to  make  clear  why  an  operation  was  undertaken  and  how  it  was  supported. 

The  plan  of  the  Pacific  subseries  was  determined  by  the  geography,  strategy,  and 
the  military  organization  of  a  theater  largely  oceanic.  Two  independent,  coordinate 
commands,  one  in  the  Southwest  Pacific  under  General  of  the  Army  Douglas 
MacArthur  and  the  other  in  the  Central,  South,  and  North  Pacific  (Pacific  Ocean 
Areas)  under  Fleet  Admiral  Chester  W.  Nimitz,  were  created  early  in  the  war.  Except 
in  the  South  and  Southwest  Pacific,  each  conducted  its  own  operations  with  its  own 
ground,  air,  and  naval  forces  in  widely  separated  areas.  These  operations  required  at 
first  only  a  relatively  small  number  of  troops  whose  efforts  often  yielded  strategic 
gains  which  cannot  be  measured  by  the  size  of  the  forces  involved.  Indeed,  the  nature 
of  the  objectives — small  islands,  coral  atolls,  and  jungle-bound  harbors  and  airstrips — 
made  the  employment  of  large  ground  forces  impossible  and  highlighted  the 
importance  of  air  and  naval  operations.  Thus,  until  1945,  the  war  in  the  Pacific 
progressed  by  a  double  series  of  amphibious  operations  each  of  which  fitted  into  a 
strategic  pattern  developed  in  Washington. 

In  recognition  of  this  fact,  the  Pacific  subseries  is  organized  chronologically  by 
campaigns  corresponding  approximately  to  the  divisions  of  command  and  to  the 
strategical  objectives  set  by  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff.  First  in  the  subseries  (the  volumes 
are  unnumbered)  is  The  Fall  of  the  Philippines  which  describes  fully  the  Japanese 
air  attacks  on  the  opening  days  of  the  war,  the  invasion  that  followed,  the  withdrawal  to 
Bataan,  the  tragic  defeat  there  and  on  Corregidor,  the  campaigns  in  Mindanao  and 
theVisayas,  and  the  final  surrender  in  May  1942. 

The  next  two  volumes  deal  with  the  operations  in  the  Solomons  and  New  Guinea 
conducted  simultaneously  (August  1 942-February  1 943)  but  under  separate  commands. 


42 


READER’S  GUIDE 


Guadalcanal:  The  First  Offensive  describes  the  campaign  in  the  Solomons  by  Admiral 
William  F.  Elalsey,  Jr.'s  South  Pacific  forces;  Victory  in  Papua  details  the  long  struggle 
of  General  Mac  Arthur’s  Southwest  Pacific  forces  to  oust  the  Japanese  from  Buna  on  the 
southeast  coast  of  New  Guinea.  Final  success  in  these  two  campaigns  in  February  1 943 
removed  the  danger  to  the  Allied  line  of  communications  running  from  the  United  States 
to  Australia  and  prepared  the  way  for  an  offensive  against  Rabaul,  the  great  Japanese 
base  in  New  Britain. 

Neutralization  and  encirclement  of  that  bastion  were  accomplished  between  June 
1943  and  March  1944  in  a  series  of  operations  described  in  CARTWHEEL:  The 
Reduction  of  Rabaul.  These  operations  consisted  of  simultaneous  and  coordinated 
drives  along  the  New  Guinea  coast  and  up  the  Solomons  “ladder”  by  forces  of  the 
South  and  Southwest  Pacific  under  MacArthur’s  direction.  Included  in  the  volume 
are  accounts  of  the  campaigns  against  New  Georgia,  Bougainville,  Lae,  Salamaua, 
Finschhafen,  Cape  Gloucester,  and  the  Admiralties. 

While  the  offensive  against  Rabaul  was  in  progress,  Admiral  Nimitz’s  forces  in 
the  Central  Pacific  took  the  offensive  and  between  November  1 943  and  March  1 944 
seized  successively  positions  in  the  Gilbert  and  Marshall  Islands  (Makin,  Tarawa, 
Kwajalein,  and  Eniwetok).  These  operations,  described  in  Seizure  of  the  Gilberts  and 
Marshalls ,  advanced  Allied  forces  2,700  miles  across  the  Pacific.  Operations  in  the 
Marianas  during  the  following  June  and  July  are  covered  in  a  separate  volume. 
Campaign  in  the  Marianas ,  which  describes  operations  against  Saipan,  Tinian,  and 
Guam,  take-off  point  for  the  B-29  raids  against  Japan. 

In  the  Southwest  Pacific  General  MacArthur’s  forces,  starting  with  the  landing  at 
Hollandia  in  New  Guinea  in  April  1 944,  advanced  by  a  series  of  amphibious  hops  up 
the  New  Guinea  coast  until  by  September  they  had  reached  Morotai,  at  the  threshold 
of  the  Philippines.  These  operations,  which  include  the  seizure  of  Aitape,  Wakde, 
Biak,  Noemfoor,  and  Sansapor  as  well  as  the  Central  Pacific  Campaign  in  the  Palaus, 
are  described  in  The  Approach  to  the  Philippines. 

The  liberation  of  the  Philippines  is  described  in  two  volumes.  The  first,  Leyte:  The 
Return  to  the  Philippines ,  carries  Mac  Arthur’s  forces,  augmented  by  a  U.S.  Army  corps 
from  the  Central  Pacific,  into  the  heart  of  the  archipelago  in  October  1 944.  From  there, 
the  troops  of  the  Southwest  Pacific  went  on  to  take  Mindoro,  Luzon,  the  Visayas,  and 
Mindanao  in  a  series  of  operations  described  in  the  volume  entitled  Triumph  in  the 
Philippines.  The  bulk  of  this  volume  deals  with  the  recapture  of  Luzon,  the  most 
important  island  in  the  archipelago. 

The  forces  of  the  Central  Pacific,  meanwhile,  had  continued  their  drive  toward  the 
Japanese  home  islands,  capturing  I  wo  Jima  in  February  1 945  (an  operation  not  covered 
in  this  series  since  no  Army  troops  were  involved)  and  landing  in  the  Ryukyus  at  the  end 
of  March.  This  last  campaign,  which  went  on  until  July,  a  month  before  the  Japanese 
surrender,  is  described  in  Okinawa:  The  Last  Battle. 

A  capstone  volume,  Strategy  and  Command:  The  First  Two  Years ,  views  the  background 
and  progress  of  the  war  in  the  Pacific  from  the  perspectives  of  Washington  as  well  as  of 


THE  WAR  IN  THE  PACIFIC 


43 


the  theater  commanders.  It  deals  with  the  major  strategic,  organizational,  and  logistical 
plans  and  problems  through  December  1 943  that  affected  U.S.  Army  operations  in  the 
Pacific  and  set  the  pattern  for  the  war  against  Japan. 


STRATEGY  AND  COMMAND:  THE  FIRSTTWO  YEARS.  By  Louis  Morton. 
(1962, 1989;  761  pages,  13  tables,  16  charts,  17  maps,  92  illustrations,  23  appendixes, 
bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  5-1 .) 


This  volume  is  the  capstone  of  The  War  in  the  Pacific  subseries,  drawing  on  the 
operational  volumes  that  preceded  it  in  the  subseries  and  providing  the  broad 
perspective  on  Japanese  and  Allied  interests  in  the  Pacific  basin  that  shaped  the  war 
between  these  antagonists.  As  one  of  the  later  volumes  in  the  United  States  Army  in 
World  War  II  series,  it  cross-references  and  often  amplifies  coverage  of  global 
strategic  issues  in  the  volumes  on  Strategic  Planning  for  Coalition  Warfare  and 
Global  Logistics  and  Strategy.  Since  this  work  traces  the  growing  tensions  between 
Japan  and  the  United  States  against  the  broad  background  of  prewar  military  planning, 
it  also  provides  a  useful  complement  to  Chief  of  Staff:  Prewar  Plans  and  Prepara¬ 
tions. 

After  sketching  early  U.S.  strategic  thinking  about  the  problem  of  Pacific 
strategy,  with  special  attention  to  the  problems  of  defense  of  the  Philippines,  the  work 
presents  a  full  treatment  of  evolving  Japanese  strategy  through  the  decision  for  war. 
Early  Allied  strategic  decision,  to  include  the  “Europe  First”  policy,  the  challenges 
associated  with  accommodating  U.S.  policy  to  “colonial”  and  commonwealth 
expectations,  and  the  tensions  between  the  U.S.  Army  and  the  Navy  are  developed 
carefully.  Steps  taken  at  the  national  and  coalition  level  during  the  early  months  of 
Japanese  victories  on  vast  fronts  are  presented  in  the  context  of  the  clashes  of  arms  that 
resulted  in  those  victories.  After  the  fall  of  the  Philippines,  the  Allied  command 
relationships  stabilized,  and  the  various  headquarters  are  described  in  detail  as 
products  of  the  complex  political,  geographic,  and  strategic  factors  that  shaped  them. 
Complementary  sections  analyze  the  Japanese  command  system,  highlighting  both 
its  strengths  and  weaknesses. 

Since  the  Pacific  is  clearly  a  joint  theater,  naval  battles.  Marine  Corps  contribu¬ 
tions,  and  the  myriad  tactical  questions  that  spill  over  into  strategic  debates  are 
presented.  Logistical  difficulties  abound  in  the  theater  selected  for  the  “economy  of 
force”  effort,  and  the  ways  in  which  enemy  action,  bureaucratic  decision  making,  and 
powerful  personalities  undermined  the  Europe  First  priority  system  provide  useful 
lessons  for  those  who  are  interested  in  problems  in  policy  implementation. 

After  the  battles  of  Coral  Sea  and  Midway,  both  sides  in  the  Pacific  theater 
attempted  to  match  resources  with  strategic  concepts  to  impose  their  will  on  the 
enemy.  The  United  States  was  hampered  in  this  effort  by  a  lack  of  unity  of  command, 
the  vastness  of  the  Japanese  defensive  perimeter,  and  the  distances  from  U.S.  ports. 
This  volume  traces  the  evolution  of  strategic  plans  designed  to  overcome  those 
difficulties  and  outlines  the  operations  conducted  in  consonance  with  those  plans. 


44 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Throughout,  the  impact  of  the  major  conferences  among  the  Allies  that  shaped  their 
grand  strategy  of  the  war  is  assessed,  and  the  twists  and  turns  imposed  on  strategy  by 
the  actions  of  the  enemy  are  described.  Even  though  the  volume  ends  with  plans  being 
evolved  in  late  1 943,  the  material  capabilities  and  doctrinal  framework  necessary  to 
achieve  tactical  victory  were  in  place  by  that  time,  and  the  strategic  pattern  for  the 
remainder  of  the  war  was  reasonably  clear.  The  last  six  volumes  of  operational  history 
in  the  subseries  each  contain  the  necessary  strategic  setting  for  the  campaign 
described. 

While  focusing  primarily  on  action  in  the  Central  and  Southwest  Pacific,  this 
volume  also  provides  the  strategic  setting  for  operations  in  the  Aleutians  covered  in 
greater  detail  in  Guarding  the  United  States  audits  Outposts.  In  this  volume,  as  in 
all  others,  the  detailed  citations  to  the  U.S.  Navy’s  and  U.S.  Air  Force’s  histories 
provide  a  fuller  understanding  of  the  campaigns  in  the  Pacific  theater. 

Key  topics: 

1.  Unity  of  command,  combined  and  joint  (Chs.  XI,  XVI,  XXIV). 

2.  Planning  and  preparation  for  joint  operations  (Chs.  XIX,  XX,  XXI,  XXV). 

3.  Interplay  among  theater,  JCS,  and  combined  strategic  concepts  (Chs.  VII,  VIII, 
XI,  XXIV). 

4.  Relationships  between  political  and  military  considerations  (Chs.  II,  III,  IV, 

VII,  IX,  XXII,  XXVII). 

5.  Divergence  of  strategic  outlook  of  the  Army  and  Navy  (Chs.  XI,  XIII,  XVI, 
XXII). 

6.  Relation  between  military  planning  and  war  aims  (Chs.  II,  V,  XVIII,  XXII, 
XXIX). 

7.  Planning  against  scarce  resources  (Chs.  XIV,  XV,  XXIII,  XXVI). 

8.  War  Department  and  Joint  Board  prewar  strategic  planning  (Chs.  I,  II). 

9.  Evolution  of  the  Europe  First  policy  (Chs.  II,  III,  XVIII). 

10.  Japanese  High  Command  organization  and  decisions  (Chs.  IV,  V,  X,  XVIII, 
XXVII). 

1 1.  Initial  Japanese  offensive  (Chs.  VI,  VII,  VIII,  XII). 

1 2.  Initial  Allied  command  relationships  and  defensive  responses  (Chs.  VI,  VII, 

VIII,  IX,  X,  XI). 

13.  Army-Navy  command  relationships  and  theater-level  joint  planning  (Chs. 
XI,  XIII,  XVI,  XVII,  XIX,  XXIII,  XXIX). 

14.  Planning  and  executing  Cartwheel  (operations  in  South  and  Southwest 
Pacific,  August-December  1943)  (Chs.  XX,  XXV,  XXVI,  XXVIII). 

15.  The  Philippines  and  the  Central  Pacific  strategy  debate  (Chs.  XXII,  XXIII). 

16.  The  Aleutians  in  Pacific  strategy  (Ch.  XXI). 


THE  FALL  OF  THE  PHILIPPINES.  By  Louis  Morton.  ( 1 953, 1 989;  626  pages, 
1 1  tables,  26  maps,  57  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  index,  CMH  Pub  5-2.) 

This  work  treats  one  of  the  initial  campaigns  of  the  war  of  the  Pacific  (8  December 
1 94 1  through  6  May  1 942),  which  ended  with  the  Japanese  conquest  of  the  Philippine 


THE  WAR  IN  THE  PACIFIC 


45 


Islands.  The  records  of  the  victorious  force,  always  better  preserved  than  those  of 
the  vanquished,  were  at  the  disposal  of  the  author,  while  those  of  the  U.S.  Army  that 
survived  have  been  supplemented  with  personal  documents,  letters,  and  extensive 
interviews.  The  result  is  a  study  of  decisions  and  operations  on  each  side  of  this 
campaign  in  relation  to  those  of  the  other. 

The  first  Philippine  campaign  presents  an  opportunity  to  study  a  retrograde 
movement  by  large  American  forces  (the  withdrawal  to  Bataan)  and  the  methods  by 
which  General  MacArthur  and  his  commanders  executed  it  with  complete  success. 
The  book  also  recounts  in  detail  the  defeat  and  surrender  of  an  American  force  of 
1 40,000  men.  It  also  presents  the  campaign  in  the  larger  perspective  of  global  strategy 
and  national  policies,  underlining  the  consequences  of  staking  vital  strategic  and 
political  objectives  on  military  means  insufficient  to  secure  the  objects  of  national 
policy. 

The  hope  of  holding  the  Philippines  until  the  fleet  could  arrive  was  fading  long 
before  that  fleet  was  crippled  at  Pearl  Harbor.  But  the  belief  that  long-range  bombers 
in  the  Philippines  could  serve  as  a  deterrent  to  the  military  expansion  of  the  Japanese 
in  Southeast  Asia  led  the  United  States  in  July  1 94 1  to  place  at  General  Mac  Arthur  ’  s 
disposal  all  the  B-17  bombers  then  available  and  in  production.  That  illusion  was 
destroyed  and  the  Philippines  virtually  isolated  when  General  MacArthur’s  air  power 
was  shattered  on  the  first  day  of  war.  The  present  volume  focuses  new  light  on  the 
heritage  of  controversy  and  conflicting  explanations  which  that  disaster  produced. 

The  author’s  account  of  the  subsequent  campaign  presents  in  detail  a  fight  by 
American  ground  forces  against  an  enemy  in  complete  control  of  the  air  and  sea.  His 
book  traces  step  by  step  the  short-lived  effort  to  stop  the  Japanese  on  the  beaches,  the 
withdrawal  to  Bataan,  and  the  stubborn  defense  of  Bataan  and  the  island  of 
Corregidor.  The  American  forces,  largely  Filipino,  were  ably  handled  but  were 
inadequately  trained,  ill  equipped,  and  hastily  mobilized.  They  included  one  infantry 
regiment  of  the  U.S.  Army  and  the  4th  Marine  Regiment.  Their  armament  was  of 
ancient  vintage:  the  Enfield  rifle,  Stokes  mortar,  2.95-inch  mountain  gun,  .75-mm. 
and  155-mm.  guns  of  European  manufacture,  and  the  light  tank.  The  condition  of 
Corregidor,  Gibraltar  of  the  Far  East,  illustrates  vividly  the  effects  of  military 
obsolescence  in  armament  and  concepts  of  defense.  In  a  real  sense,  the  Philippine 
campaign  was  the  last  battle  of  World  War  I. 

The  logistical  aspects  of  the  campaign  were  of  great  importance  and  are  fully 
developed  in  this  volume.  The  long-standing  Orange  plan  called  only  for  defense 
of  Corregidor  and  Bataan  until  the  fleet  could  arrive  in  Manila  Bay — a  period  estimated 
at  six  months.  But  Bataan  had  not  been  adequately  stocked  for  a  siege  of  this  duration. 
Furthermore,  General  MacArthur,  departing  from  the  Orange  plan,  decided  to 
oppose  the  enemy  on  the  beaches.  When  this  opposition  immediately  collapsed, 
supply  officers  had  only  two  weeks  to  retrieve  the  stores  they  had  brought  forward  and 
move  them  back  to  Bataan  on  crowded  roads.  Much  had  to  be  destroyed.  The  book 
gives  a  full  account  of  the  effect  of  shortages  of  supplies  in  producing  the  final  agony 
of  the  troops  and  the  decision  by  Maj.  Gen.  Edward  P.  King,  Jr.,  to  surrender  in  spite 
of  direct  orders  of  superior  authority  not  to  do  so. 

The  reduction  of  Corregidor,  Lt.  Gen.  Jonathan  M.  Wainwright’s  surrender,  and 


46 


READER'S  GUIDE 


its  effect  on  the  forces  in  the  southern  Philippines  illustrate  vividly  the  situation  of 
commanders  confronted  with  the  unwelcome  decision  to  surrender  while  still  capable 
of  effective  local  resistance.  They  also  bring  out  with  dramatic  vividness  the  problems 
that  face  higher  commanders  confronted  with  defeat. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  The  effect  of  military  unreadiness  on  a  major  strategic  plan  (Orange)  (Ch. 
IV). 

2.  The  capabilities  and  limitations  of  a  force  of  non-American  troops  constructed 
around  a  trained  American  nucleus  (Chs.  VIII,  X-XIII). 

3.  The  defense  of  a  beachhead  by  American  forces  (Chs.  VI,  VIII). 

4.  The  effect  of  communications  and  command  relationships  under  conditions  of 
surprise  (Ch.  V). 

5 .  Effects  of  enemy  command  of  the  air  and  sea  on  the  control,  tactics,  and  morale 
of  an  American  force  (Chs.  IX,  XXII,  XXIV,  XXV,  XXVII,  XXX). 

6.  The  prolonged  retrograde  movement  of  a  large  force  under  strong  pressure 
(Chs.  XIII,  XVI). 

7.  The  prolonged  defense  of  an  extensive  fortified  position  under  conditions  of 
siege,  air  attack,  and  supply  shortages  (Bataan)  (Chs.  XVI-XIX,  XXIII-XXVI). 

8.  Defense  of  a  heavily  armed  and  fortified  island  under  similar  conditions 
(Corregidor)  (Chs.  XXVII,  XXIX-XXXI). 

9.  The  relation  of  logistical  planning  and  the  disposition  of  supplies  to  the 
capacity  for  resistance  (Chs.  IX,  X,  XV,  XXI,  XXII). 

10.  The  problems  of  surrender  (Chs.  XXVI,  XXXII). 

1 1 .  The  use  of  World  War  I  weapons  and  tactics  in  the  first  American  campaign 
of  World  War  II  (Chs.  II,  VIII,  XI,  XV,  XVI,  XVII,  XVIII,  XXVII,  XXVIII,  XXIX). 


GUADALCANAL:  THE  FIRST  OFFENSIVE.  By  John  Miller,  jr.  ( 1 949,  1 989; 
413  pages,  3  charts,  36  maps,  76  illustrations,  5  appendixes,  glossary,  index,  CMH 
Pub  5-3.) 

Guadalcanal:  The  First  Offensive  is  a  tactical  history  of  ground  operations 
involved  in  seizing  and  holding  the  heavily  jungled  island  of  Guadalcanal  in  the 
British  Solomon  Islands.  It  covers  the  campaign  from  the  initial  invasion  on  7  August 
1942  to  21  February  1943  when  the  area  including  the  Russell  Islands  was  finally 
secured.  In  the  Pacific  subseries  this  volume  follows  The  Fall  of  the  Philippines,  is 
concurrent  with  Victory  in  Papua ,  and  precedes  CARTWHEEL:  The  Reduction  of 
Rabaul. 

The  Guadalcanal  Campaign  was  the  first  sustained  Allied  offensive  in  the  Pacific. 
It  began  a  series  of  amphibious  attacks  in  the  South  and  Southwest  Pacific  Areas 
which  pointed  toward  the  reduction  of  the  great  Japanese  base  at  Rabaul  in  the 
Bismarck  Archipelago.  Just  as  the  Japanese  hoped  to  use  Rabaul  and  their  forward 
bases  in  the  Solomons,  the  Bismarck  Archipelago,  and  New  Guinea  to  sever  the  U.S.- 
Australian  line  of  communications,  so  the  Allies  planned  their  offensives  to  protect 


THE  WAR  IN  THE  PACIFIC 


47 


that  line  of  communications  and  indirectly  to  clear  the  way  for  the  return  of  American 
forces  to  the  Philippines. 

To  seize  the  initiative  from  the  Japanese,  the  Americans  were  initially  forced  to 
launch  their  offensive  before  they  had  amassed  the  preponderance  of  military  strength 
that  characterized  the  latter  phases  of  the  war.  Japanese  reaction  was  so  violent  and 
the  contestants  were  so  evenly  matched  on  the  sea  and  in  the  air  that  the  campaign 
developed  into  a  six-month  struggle  for  control  of  the  approaches  to  Guadalcanal 
coupled  with  intense  ground  fighting  for  possession  of  the  island  itself.  While  air  and 
naval  forces  fought  six  full-scale  naval  battles  and  hundreds  of  smaller  engagements, 
American  ground  combat  troops  grappled  with  Japanese  military  forces  in  the  tropical 
rain  forests,  in  the  mountains,  and  on  grassy  hills.  The  fight  was  hard,  and  the  enemy 
skillful  and  stubborn.  Nevertheless,  the  final  American  victory  demonstrated  that 
their  leadership,  determination,  tactics,  and  weapons  were  as  effective  in  the  damp 
dark  of  the  jungle  as  in  the  desert  or  on  the  open  plains. 

The  measure  of  the  campaign  is  not  to  be  found  in  the  relatively  small  numbers 
of  troops  engaged.  The  Americans  and  Japanese  were  straining  to  bring  their  forces 
to  bear  at  the  end  of  long  and  vulnerable  lines  of  communications,  so  that  battalion 
and  regimental  actions  assumed  a  much  greater  degree  of  importance  than  they  didin, 
for  example,  the  campaign  in  Europe  during  1944  and  1945. 

Guadalcanal:  The  First  Offensive  treats  operations  of  U.S.  Army  ground  combat 
troops  in  detail.  It  summarizes  the  achievements  of  U.S.  Marine  Corps,  Navy,  Air, 
and  Allied  units  in  order  to  show  the  contributions  of  all.  Starting  at  the  level  of  corps 
and  division  headquarters,  ground  combat  is  explained  systematically  down  to  the 
battalion  level.  When  possible,  key  actions  are  carried  down  to  the  level  of  companies, 
platoons,  and  even  squads,  for  combat  in  the  thick  tropical  jungles  tended  to  break  up 
into  a  series  of  small-unit  fights.  Every  attempt  is  made  to  show  the  contributions  of 
all  supporting  arms  and  services,  so  that  air,  artillery,  engineer,  and  signal  support  are 
related  to  infantry  action  as  closely  as  possible. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  A  case  study  of  the  strategic  problems  facing  the  high  (JCS)  command:  theater 
problems  versus  grand  strategy  (Ch.  I). 

2.  An  amphibious  offensive:  an  early  example  of  planning  and  execution  (Chs. 

II,  III). 

3.  Organizing  beachhead  defenses  (Ch.  IV). 

4.  The  dependence  of  tactical  strength  on  logistics  (summarized  in  Ch.  XIII;  see 
also  Chs.  II-V). 

5.  Japanese  offensive  plans  and  operations  (Chs.  V,  VI). 

6.  As  others  saw  us:  ‘Through  Japanese  eyes”  (App.  D). 

7.  Tactical  subjects: 

a.  The  corps  in  the  attack  (Chs.  XI,  XII,  XIV). 

b.  The  regiment  in  the  attack,  with  artillery  and  air  support  (Ch.  XI,  Sec.  1). 

c.  Attack  of  a  heavily  defended  area  (Chs.  X,  XII). 

d.  Defense  against  Japanese  attack  (Chs.  IV,  V,  VI). 

e.  Employment  of  field  artillery  (Ch.  XI,  Sec.  1,  and  Ch.  XII,  Sec.  2). 

f.  A  hastily  improvised  attack  (Ch.  V). 


48 


READER'S  GUIDE 


VICTORY  IN  PAPUA.  By  Samuel  Milner.  (1957,  1989;  409  pages,  23  maps,  69 
illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  5—4.) 

Soon  after  the  shattered  American  Navy  won  its  great  victory  at  Midway,  the 
United  States  launched  its  ground  forces  into  their  first  offensives  in  the  Pacific,  at 
Guadalcanal  as  recounted  above,  and  on  the  eastern  tip  of  New  Guinea.  The  offensive 
in  Papua  was  an  Allied  operation  in  which  the  American  ground  contingent  was 
supplied  by  two  U.S.  Army  divisions,  the  32d  and  a  regiment  of  the  41st.  Victory  in 
Papua  is  a  detailed  account  of  their  bitter  experience  in  the  operation  to  which  they 
were  committed,  the  objective  of  which  was  to  expel  the  Japanese  from  their 
lodgments  at  Milne  Bay,  Buna,  and  Gona. 

This  was  the  first  offensive  under  General  MacArthur’s  command,  and  the 
American  forces  used  were  untried,  neither  trained  nor  seasoned  for  their  difficult  first 
assignment.  For  most  of  the  Allied  troops  the  Papua  Campaign  was  a  military 
nightmare.  The  work  describes  the  agonies  and  frustrations  of  men  living  under 
almost  intolerable  conditions,  plagued  by  disease,  short  of  artillery,  and  pitted  against 
a  skilled  and  resolute  foe. 

While  the  narrative  focuses  on  the  painful  struggles  of  the  American  ground 
forces  to  master  their  environment  and  overcome  their  foes,  its  scope  is  as  broad  as 
the  campaign  and  includes  the  direction  of  joint.  Allied  operations;  the  operations  of 
the  Australians;  and  the  sometimes  highly  experimental  employment  of  air  power  to 
transport  and  supply  the  ground  forces  as  well  as  support  them  in  battle. 

Key  topics: 

1.  Problems  of  joint  and  Allied  command  (Ch.  II). 

2.  Problems  in  theater  strategy  (Chs.  I,  II). 

3.  Japanese  offensive  plans  and  operations  (Chs.  I,  III,  IV,  V,  VI). 

4.  Air  transport  and  supply  (Chs.  V,  VII). 

5.  Improvisation  of  logistic  support  (Chs.  V,  VII,  VIII,  X,  XI). 

6.  Effects  of  disease  and  insufficient  training  upon  tactical  efficiency  (Chs.  VII- 
XVIII). 

7.  Small-unit  attacks  against  fortified  areas  (Chs.  VIII— XVIII). 

8.  Special  problems  of  command  (Chs.  X,  XI). 

CARTWHEEL:  THE  REDUCTION  OF  RABAUL.  By  John  Miller,  jr.  (1959, 
1 984, 1 990;  4 1 8  pages,  2  tables,  1 1  charts,  22  maps,  89  illustrations,  bibliographical 
note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  5-5.) 

The  numerous  and  varied  operations  which  resulted  in  the  reduction  of  Rabaul 
illuminate  Allied  strategy,  tactics,  and  command.  The  Allied  offensive,  begun  with 
limited  and  costly  counteroffensives  on  Guadalcanal  and  in  eastern  New  Guinea,  now 
began  to  take  unexpectedly  long  strides.  Postponement  of  the  cross-Channel  attack 
in  favor  of  the  invasion  of  North  Africa,  together  with  the  rapidly  mounting 
productivity  of  the  American  war  economy,  made  it  possible  for  the  United  States  to 
deploy  more  strength  in  the  Pacific  in  1943  than  its  planners  had  originally 
anticipated.  But  Japanese  strength  had  not  yet  been  seriously  impaired  except  in 


THE  WAR  IN  THE  PACIFIC 


49 


aircraft  carriers,  and  Japan  had  the  advantage  of  interior  lines.  The  victorious 
operations  that  led  to  the  isolation  of  Rabaul  thus  provide  an  inspiring  and  instructive 
story  of  successes  won  by  strategic  daring,  tactical  resourcefulness  and  flexibility,  and 
human  ingenuity  and  courage.  They  also  demonstrate  a  remarkable  capacity  for 
teamwork  at  all  levels.  The  Allied  forces  engaged,  under  the  strategic  direction  of 
General  MacArthur,  were  the  ground,  air,  and  naval  surface  forces  of  the  South 
Pacific  Area  under  the  command  of  Admiral  Halsey  and  those  of  the  Southwest 
Pacific  Area  under  the  command  of  General  MacArthur.  Their  ability  to  work  and 
learn  together  was  a  remarkable  achievement. 

The  operational  strategy  that  grew  into  a  pattern  in  this  campaign  called  for 
ground  forces,  transported  and  protected  by  Allied  naval  and  air  forces,  to  seize  bases 
from  which  the  air  forces  and  navy  then  neutralized  other  enemy  bases  in  a  continuous 
process  of  cooperation  and  forward  leaps.  To  meet  the  enemy’s  determination  to 
fortify  heavily  their  advance  bases  and  inflict  high  casualties  in  any  attacking  force, 
the  Allied  commanders  used  their  superior  strength  to  seize  positions  that  were 
strategically  important  but  weakly  defended.  Out  of  this  emerged  the  bypassing 
technique  whereby  the  Allies  steamed  or  flew  past  strong  enemy  garrisons  which  were 
neutralized  by  air  and  naval  action  and  left  to  wither  on  the  vine.  In  the  end,  contrary 
to  the  original  anticipations  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  and  General  MacArthur,  this 
method  sufficed  to  dispose  of  the  great  enemy  base  at  Rabaul. 

Cartwheel  provides  information  and  references  with  which  to  study  such 
variegated  topics  as  Pacific  strategy;  intertheater  relationships  and  coordination  of 
widely  separated  forces  and  operations;  problems  and  solutions  in  theater  commands 
involving  ground,  air,  and  naval  forces  (U.S.  and  Allied);  the  relationship  of  such 
forces  in  a  new  pattern  of  warfare;  and  tactical  problems  and  their  solution, 
particularly  in  amphibious  and  jungle  operations.  The  author  also  describes  the  close 
relationship  of  artillery,  air,  and  naval  support  to  infantry  action  wherever  the  records 
enabled  him  to  do  so  and  has  been  attentive  to  the  relationship  of  logistics  to  progress 
in  battle. 

Key  topics: 

1.  The  execution  of  national  strategy:  a  study  in  balancing  ends  against  means 
(Chs.  I,  II,  XII). 

2.  Theater  headquarters  in  action:  studies  in  unified  command  (Chs.  Ill,  VI,  X,  XI, 
XII,  XIV,  XV). 

3.  Intertheater  cooperation  and  coordination  (Chs.  Ill,  XII,  XV). 

4.  Planning  and  executing  amphibious  offensives  (Chs.  V,  VI,  XII,  XIV,  XV). 

5.  Planning  and  executing  a  combined  amphibious,  overland,  and  airborne 
offensive  (Ch.  XI). 

6.  The  corps  in  the  attack  (Chs.  VIII,  IX).* 

7.  The  corps  in  defense,  using  interior  lines  (Ch.  XVII). 

8.  The  division  in  a  jungle  (heavy  forest)  attack,  with  emphasis  on  difficulties  (Ch. 
VII).* 

9.  Operational  techniques  of  bypassing  strongpoints  (Chs.  X,  XII,  XV). 


These  chapters  also  contain  much  material  on  operations  of  smaller  units. 


50 


READER  S  GUIDE 


10.  From  reconnaissance  in  force  to  a  divisional  offensive  (Ch.  XVI). 

1 1 .  Effective  delaying  action  (Chs.  VI-X). 

12.  Problems  and  solutions  in  jungle  (heavy  forest)  warfare  (Ch.  IX). 

13.  War  neurosis  and  combat  fatigue  (Chs.  VII,  VIII). 

14.  Japanese  organization  and  strategy  (Chs.  IV,  X,  XI). 


SEIZURE  OF  THE  GILBERTS  AND  MARSHALLS.  By  Philip  A.  Crowl  and 
Edmund  G.  Love.  (1955,  1985,  1989;  414  pages,  4  tables,  3  charts,  27  maps,  92 
illustrations,  appendix,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  5-6.) 

This  volume  tells  the  story  of  the  initial  thrust  in  the  drive  across  the  Central 
Pacific.  The  campaign  opened  in  November  1 943  under  Admiral  Nimitz’s  direction, 
when  the  drive  in  the  South  and  Southwest  Pacific,  directed  by  General  MacArthur, 
was  approaching  Rabaul  and  was  already  on  its  way  up  the  coast  of  New  Guinea. 
Henceforth,  a  two-pronged  offensive,  coordinated  by  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff, 
becomes  the  subject  of  the  history  of  the  war  in  the  Pacific. 

The  decision  to  launch  a  double  offensive  against  Japan  revived  the  time-honored 
concept  of  a  drive  from  Hawaii  into  the  western  Pacific,  which  had  been  laid  aside, 
together  with  the  Orange  plan’s  focus  on  a  Philippine  offensive  proved  to  be  one  of 
the  momentous  decisions  in  the  war  against  Japan.  A  full  account  of  the  circumstances 
that  lay  behind  this  decision — the  increase  in  American  resources,  the  discussions  at 
the  level  of  the  Joint  and  Combined  Chiefs  of  Staff — appears  in  the  volumes  on  Global 
Logistics  and  Strategy  and  Strategic  Planning  for  Coalition  Warfare.  Its  significance 
in  Pacific  strategy  is  further  developed  in  the  theater  volume.  Strategy  and  Command: 
The  First  Two  Years.  Here  enough  strategy  is  introduced  to  explain  the  two 
campaigns  of  the  initial  thrust  under  Admiral  Nimitz. 

In  this  first  move  only  two  Army  divisions  were  engaged,  the  7th  and  27th.  Their 
operations  on  Makin,  Eniwetok,  and  Kwajalein  are  described  and  analyzed  in  detail, 
but  the  story  of  the  whole  operation,  in  which  Navy,  Marines,  and  Army  Air  Forces 
played  the  leading  roles,  is  retold  to  the  extent  necessary  to  illuminate  the  decisions 
of  Army  commanders  and  present  the  action  of  the  7th  and  27th  Infantry  Divisions 
in  a  historical  context. 

The  operation  was  amphibious  throughout  because  the  islands  seized  were  so 
small  that  naval  forces  provided  essential  gunfire  and  aerial  support  to  the  troops 
ashore  until  the  end  of  the  fighting.  Once  captured,  these  island  groups  (atolls)  served 
as  steppingstones  in  the  form  of  advance  air  and  naval  bases  from  which  future 
amphibious  operations  to  the  westward  could  be  supported. 

The  present  volume  is  particularly  valuable  as  a  study  of  the  role  of  ground  forces 
in  amphibious  operations.  The  errors  made  were  instructive,  and  the  lessons  learned 
as  well  as  the  positions  seized  were  an  important  contribution  to  the  success  of  the 
subsequent  advances,  described  in  other  Pacific  subseries  volumes.  Specifically,  the 
account  contains  instructive  examples  of  the  coordination  of  naval  gunfire,  artillery, 
and  air  strikes  and  the  problems  of  successfully  orchestrating  a  wide  variety  of  ground, 
air,  and  sea  components  toward  a  unified  purpose. 


THE  WAR  IN  THE  PACIFIC 


51 


Key  topics: 

1.  Strategic  background  of  the  campaigns  (Chs.  I,  XXI). 

2.  Tactical  planning  for  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  II,  III,  XI). 

3.  Troop  training  for  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  Ill,  XII,  XIX). 

4.  Logistics  of  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  Ill,  XII). 

5.  Command  relationships  in  joint  (amphibious)  operations  (Chs.  II,  XI,  XIX). 

6.  Amphibious  landings  against  defended  atolls  (Chs.  V,  IX,  XIV,  XVIII,  XIX). 

7.  Small-unit  actions  in  atoll  warfare  (Chs.  V,  VI,  VII,  VIII,  IX,  XIV,  XV,  XVI, 
XVII,  XVIII,  XIX). 

8.  Naval  gunfire  support  in  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  Ill,  V,  IX,  X,  XII,  XIV, 
XV,  XVI,  XVII,  XVIII,  XIX,  XXI). 

9.  Employment  of  artillery  in  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  V,  VI,  VII,  VIII,  IX, 

X,  XIV,  XV,  XVI,  XVII,  XVIII,  XIX). 

10.  Air  support  in  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  Ill,  V,  IX,  X,  XII,  XIV,  XVIII, 
XIX,  XX,  XXI). 

1 1 .  Tank-infantry  coordination  in  atoll  operations  (Chs.  V,  VI,  VII,  VIII,  IX,  X, 
XIV,  XV,  XVI,  XVII,  XVIII,  XIX). 

1 2.  Inapplicability  of  envelopment  in  small  island  tactics  (Chs.  V,  VI,  VII,  VIII). 

13.  Underwater  demolition  teams  in  landing  operations  (Chs.  XII,  XIV). 

14.  Employment  of  amphibian  vehicles  in  landing  operations  (Chs.  Ill,  V,  IX,  X, 

XI,  XIV,  XIX). 

15.  Japanese  island  defenses  (Chs.  IV,  XIII,  XIX). 

16.  Japanese  counterattacks  (Chs.  VIII,  IX,  XVI,  XIX). 

17.  Japanese  strategy  operations  (Chs.  IV,  XIII,  XIX). 

1 8.  Supply  over  the  beaches  in  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  VI,  VII,  IX,  X,  XIV, 
XVIII,  XIX). 

CAMPAIGN  IN  THE  MARIANAS.  By  Philip  A.  Cr owl.  (1960, 1985,  1989;  505 
pages,  2  tables,  2  charts,  34  maps,  89  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries, 
index,  CMH  Pub  5-7.) 

Campaign  in  the  Marianas  tells  the  story  of  the  capture  of  Saipan,  Tinian,  and 
Guam  in  the  Central  Pacific  in  mid- 1944,  together  with  the  strategic  and  tactical 
planning  that  preceded  the  fighting,  the  supporting  operations  by  air  and  sea  forces, 
and  the  final  exploitation  of  these  islands  as  bases.  The  Marianas  victory  was  one  of 
the  key  actions  in  the  Pacific;  the  U.S.  invasion  of  the  Marianas  provoked  the  Japanese 
Fleet  into  a  major  and  unsuccessful  engagement,  and  the  Marianas  provided  the  bases 
from  which  the  Army  Air  Forces  later  immolated  the  cities  of  Japan. 

All  Central  Pacific  operations  shared  certain  characteristics.  They  were  joint 
amphibious  operations  conducted  under  the  principle  of  unity  of  command  over  all 
air,  sea,  and  ground  forces.  They  had  as  objectives  potential  air  and  naval  bases  which 
were  to  be  seized  by  ground  troops  who  were  carried  forward  and  supported  by 
warships  and  airplanes.  Their  accomplishments  involved  hard  fighting  and  relatively 
heavy  casualties. 

Because  the  number  of  Army  troops  in  the  Marianas  was  relatively  small,  much 


52 


READER'S  GUIDE 


attention  is  devoted  to  small-unit  actions,  with  the  spotlight  often  falling  on  the  rifle 
company.  This  account,  like  others  in  the  Pacific  subseries,  also  contains  instructive 
examples  of  the  coordination  of  naval  gunfire,  artillery,  and  air  strikes,  providing  an 
exceptional  opportunity  to  study  the  coordination  of  ground,  air,  and  sea  forces. 

The  Marianas  invasions  again  demonstrated  the  soundness  of  U.S.  amphibious 
doctrine  and  tested  the  principle  of  unity  of  command.  This  volume  sheds  light  on 
interservice  command  and  cooperation,  treating  frankly  some  of  the  bitter  interservice 
controversies  between  the  U.S.  Army  and  the  Marine  Corps  which  emerged  at  the 
local  level. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Strategic  background  of  the  operations  (Ch.  I). 

2.  Tactical  planning  for  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  Ill,  XIII,  XV). 

3.  Troop  training  for  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  Ill,  XV). 

4.  Logistics  of  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  Ill,  VII,  XV). 

5.  Command  relationships  and  interservice  cooperation  and  controversy  in  joint 
operations  (Chs.  Ill,  VII,  X,  XV). 

6.  Amphibious  landings  on  defended  beaches  (Chs.  V,  XVII). 

7.  Small-unit  actions  in  island  warfare  (Chs.  V,  VI,  VIII,  IX,  XI,  XII,  XVII,  XVIII, 
XIX,  XX). 

8.  Naval  gunfire  support  in  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  V,  VII,  XIV,  XV, 
XVII). 

9.  Employment  of  artillery  (Chs.  VII,  XII,  XIII,  XIV). 

10.  Air  support  (Chs.  V,  VII,  XIV,  XV,  XVII). 

1 1 .  Employment  of  amphibian  vehicles  in  landing  operations  (Chs.  V,  XIII,  XIV, 
XVII). 

12.  Japanese  defenses  (Chs.  IV,  IX,  XIII,  XVI). 

13.  Japanese  counterattacks  (Chs.  VI,  XII,  XIV,  XVII,  XVIII). 

14.  U.S.  and  Japanese  fleet  operations  (Ch.  VII). 

15.  Movement  of  supplies  over  beaches  in  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  V,  VII, 
XIV,  XVII). 

16.  Army  versus  Marine  Corps  (Chs.  IX,  X). 


•  • 

THE  APPROACH  TO  THE  PHILIPPINES.  By  Robert  Ross  Smith.  (1953, 1984; 
623  pages,  2  tables,  14  charts,  34  maps,  51  illustrations,  bibliographical  note, 
glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  5-8.) 

The  Approach  to  the  Philippines  covers  a  series  of  seven  complex  amphibious  and 
ground  operations  along  the  northern  coast  of  New  Guinea  during  the  period  April- 
October  1944,  in  the  Southwest  Pacific  Area,  and  the  capture  of  the  southern  Palau 
Islands,  September-November  1944,  in  the  Central  Pacific  Area.  These  operations 
paved  the  way  for  the  Allied  invasion  of  the  Philippines  in  the  late  fall  of  1944. 

The  Approach  to  the  Philippines  covers  all  activities — ground,  air,  and  naval — 
necessary  for  adequate  understanding  of  the  Army  ground  narrative.  The  nature  of 
combat  usually  involved  a  series  of  coordinated  but  separate  operations  by  regimental 


THE  WAR  IN  THE  PACIFIC 


53 


combat  teams.  Divisions  seldom  fought  as  integral  units  during  the  approach  to  the 
Philippines. 

The  operations  involved  all  the  mechanics  of  amphibious  warfare  in  1944 — 
strategic  and  logistical  planning,  naval  gunfire,  carrier-based  and  land-based  air 
support,  infantry  maneuver,  small-unit  actions,  artillery  support,  tank  actions,  tactical 
supply  ashore,  medical  problems,  and  civil  affairs.  The  series  of  operations  described 
was  unique,  and  the  problems  of  execution  involved  were  vastly  complicated  by  the 
fact  that  they  were  executed  in  rapid  succession.  While  one  was  being  planned, 
another  was  being  launched,  the  height  of  combat  was  being  reached  in  a  third,  and 
still  others  had  entered  a  consolidation  stage. 

Basically,  The  Approach  to  the  Philippines  becomes  a  story  of  joint  operations 
from  the  highest  to  the  lowest  levels.  Pertinent  information  about  strategic  planning 
by  the  Combined  and  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  is  included  to  fit  the  tactical  narrative  into 
its  proper  perspective  in  the  global  war.  At  theater  level  the  problems  of  joint 
planning,  command,  and  organization  for  amphibious  operations  are  covered  in 
detail.  At  the  tactical  level  may  be  found  the  story  of  a  U.S.  Army  infantry  company 
advancing  along  a  coastal  strand  with  the  support  of  a  U.S.  Navy  PT  boat,  while  a 
fighter-bomber  of  the  Royal  Australian  Air  Force  orbited  overhead,  ready  to  dive- 
bomb  or  strafe  targets  that  the  ground  and  naval  units  could  not  destroy.  Or  there  is 
the  story  of  a  U.S.  Navy  destroyer  and  guns  aboard  amphibious  craft  manned  by  U.S. 
Army  engineers  that  covered  the  withdrawal  of  an  Army  infantry  battalion,  while 
Army  Air  Forces  pianes  protected  all  three  elements.  Finally,  the  plans  and  actions 
of  the  enemy  are  covered,  principally  from  Japanese  records. 

Key  topics: 

1.  Strategic  planning,  Allied  and  Japanese  (Chs.  I,  IV,  XV,  XVIII,  XIX). 

2.  Intelligence  (Chs.  II,  VI,  X,  XII,  XIII,  XVII,  XIX,  XXII-XXIV). 

3.  Tactical  planning  for  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  II,  IX,  XII). 

4.  Logistical  aspects  of  joint  operations  (Chs.  II,  III,  V,  XIX). 

5.  Organization  for  joint  operations  (Chs.  II,  IX,  XIX). 

6.  Naval  gunfire  support  (Chs.  II,  III,  V,  IX,  XII,  XIII,  XVII-XXI). 

7.  Amphibious  landings  (Chs.  Ill,  V,  IX,  XII,  XVII,  XVIII,  XX,  XXI). 

8.  Assaults  on  defended  islands  (Chs.  IX,  XXI). 

9.  Defense  of,  withdrawal  from,  and  reestablishment  of  a  river  line  (Chs.  VI-VIII). 

1 0.  Enveloping  maneuvers  in  jungled  terrain  (Chs.  Ill,  VIII,  XIII). 

1 1 .  Cave  and  tunnel  warfare  (Chs.  XIV,  XVI,  XXII-XXIV). 

12.  Air  support,  strategic  (Chs.  II,  III,  XVIII-XXI). 

1 3 .  Tank  operations,  problems  involved  (Chs.  Ill,  X,  XI,  XIII,  XIV,  XXI-XXIV, 
XXVI). 

1 4.  Flamethrowers  (Chs.  XVI,  XXII-XXIV). 

15.  Defense  against  naval  counterattack  (Ch.  XV). 

1 6.  Army  units  under  Marine  Corps  command  (and  vice  versa)  (Chs.  XIX,  XXI- 
XXIV). 

17.  Supply  problems  in  roadless,  tropical  terrain  (Chs.  Ill,  V,  XIII,  XIV). 

18.  Parachute  operations  (Ch.  XVII). 


54 


READER'S  GUIDE 


LEYTE:  THE  RETURN  TO  THE  PHILIPPINES.  By  M.  Hamlin  Cannon. 
(1954,  1987;  420  pages,  5  tables,  3  charts,  23  maps,  70  illustrations,  2  appendixes, 
bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  5-9.) 

In  this  narrative,  the  Sixth  Army,  commanded  by  Lt.  Gen.  Walter  Krueger, 
emerges  from  the  series  of  island-hopping,  bypassing  operations  described  in 
CARTWHEEL  :  The  Reduction  ofRahaul  and  in  The  Approach  to  the  Philippines  and 
engages  a  Japanese  army  on  a  land  area  of  2,785  square  miles  in  a  war  of  maneuver. 
The  Sixth  Army  landed  on  Leyte  on  20  October  1944  with  the  support  of  the  fleets 
of  the  Pacific  Ocean  Areas  and  the  Southwest  Pacific  Area,  and  these,  in  the  famous 
Battle  of  Leyte  Gulf  on  24  October,  blocked  the  desperate  attempt  of  the  Japanese 
Navy  to  destroy  the  expedition.  U.S.  Army  troops  were  engaged  in  greater  numbers 
than  ever  before  assembled  in  the  Pacific  and  were  supported  by  naval  and  air  forces 
of  corresponding  size.  The  Sixth  Army  had  to  overcome  Japanese  forces  of  greater 
magnitude  than  any  previously  encountered.  On  25  December  1944,  the  island  was 
declared  secure,  and  General  Mac  Arthur  returned  in  triumph  to  the  Philippines.  The 
breach  in  Japan’s  line  of  communications  with  Southeast  Asia  that  had  been  effected 
by  U.S.  submarines  was  now  permanent  and  its  last  hope  of  victory  destroyed. 

The  Sixth  Army  accomplished  its  task  on  Leyte  by  executing  a  gigantic  double 
envelopment  coupled  with  an  amphibious  landing  in  the  enemy ’s  rear  area.  Through¬ 
out  the  campaign  Krueger's  army  was  aided  by  strategic  and  tactical  air  cover  and 
support  from  its  old  companion,  Lt.  Gen.  George  C.  Kenney’s  Fifth  Air  Force,  and 
the  Navy’s  air  arm,  and  enjoyed  the  cooperation  of  guerrilla  forces.  The  roles  of 
supporting  forces  and  strategic  prospects  and  plans  affecting  the  campaign  are 
described  to  the  extent  necessary  to  explain  the  Army's  plans  and  performance. 

Leyte  deals  systematically  with  both  American  and  Japanese  operations.  It  gives 
an  account  of  the  plans  and  countermoves  of  the  enemy,  derived  from  Japanese 
sources.  On  the  American  side  two  corps  and  nine  divisions  were  committed,  and  the 
study  approaches  operations  from  a  corps  and  division  level,  but  it  amplifies  the  action 
of  smaller  units  when  those  activities  were  particularly  decisive  or  when  available 
source  material  and  space  allowed  the  author  to  highlight  the  nature  of  the  small-unit 
operations  conducted. 

The  Leyte  Campaign  lasted  longer  than  originally  planned.  In  setting  forth  the 
circumstances  of  this  delay  Leyte  illustrates  the  interdependence  of  ground  and  air 
forces.  Although  General  Krueger  officially  assumed  responsibility  for  the  delay,  the 
difficulty  in  constructing  adequate  airfields  was  the  immediate  culprit.  The  airforces 
were,  for  a  considerable  period,  unable  to  seal  off  the  battlefield,  and  the  Japanese 
were  able  to  funnel  in  reinforcements  because  the  air  bases  on  Leyte  were  not  ready 
on  time  and  were  unsatisfactory  when  ready — a  condition  blamed  on  the  soil,  drainage, 
and  climate  of  Leyte. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Logistical  planning  for  an  island  campaign  (Ch.  III). 

2.  Relationships  of  ground,  air,  and  naval  forces  in  war  (Chs.  Ill,  VI,  XVI). 

3.  A  large-scale  amphibious  operation:  planning  (Ch.  Ill)  and  execution  (Chs. 
IV-V). 


THE  WAR  IN  THE  PACIFIC 


55 


4.  Japanese  command  and  strategy:  a  study  in  insufficiency,  delay,  and  piecemeal 
commitment  (Ch.  IV,  3d  section;  Ch.  VI;  Ch.  VII,  1st  section;  Ch.  XVII;  Ch.  XXI, 
3d  section;  this  topic  should  be  studied  in  conjunction  with  the  Luzon  Campaign). 

5.  Logistical  problems  in  a  tropical  operation  (Chs.  XI,  XVIII). 

6.  Mountain  warfare  (Chs.  XII,  XIII). 

7.  Exploiting  an  opportunity:  an  infantry  division  in  amphibious  envelopment 
(Ch.  XVI). 

8.  A  field  army’s  summary  of  its  tactical  experience  (Ch.  XIV). 

9.  Kamikaze  attacks  (see  Index). 

1 0.  Movement  of  supplies  during  the  amphibious  phase  of  an  invasion  (Ch.  V,  4th 
section). 

1 1.  Guerrillas  as  a  source  of  intelligence  and  employed  in  conjunction  with 
regular  troops  (see  Index:  “Guerrilla  movement”). 


TRIUMPH  IN  THE  PHILIPPINES.  By  Robert  Ross  Smith.  (1963,  1984,  1991; 
756  pages,  9  tables,  45  maps,  87  illustrations,  8  appendixes,  bibliographical  note, 
glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  5-10.) 

Triumph  in  the  Philippines  is  the  third  volume  in  the  subseries  to  deal  with  the 
reconquest  of  the  Philippine  Archipelago.  The  narrative  traces  the  broad  strategic 
vision  that  was  employed  in  arriving  at  the  decision  to  invade  Luzon  and  bypass 
Formosa  as  a  steppingstone  to  Okinawa.  This  study  focuses  on  the  Luzon  Campaign 
with  twenty-nine  of  its  thirty-two  chapters  devoted  to  this  subject.  Although  the 
Pacific  is  decidedly  a  joint  theater,  the  reader  will  find  only  passing  references  to  naval 
activities  in  support  of  this  campaign  and  will  have  to  look  to  other  sources  for  a  more 
complete  picture. 

On  9  January  1945,  the  Sixth  Army  under  the  command  of  Lt.  Gen.  Walter 
Krueger  commenced  the  largest  United  States  Army  operation  in  the  Pacific.  It 
entailed  the  use  of  more  ground  forces  than  did  the  operations  in  North  Africa,  Italy, 
or  southern  France.  Unlike  previous  operations  in  the  Pacific,  the  number  of  U.S. 
troops  engaged,  coupled  with  the  ability  to  maneuver  these  forces  in  the  central  plains 
north  of  Manila,  was  more  characteristic  of  European  operations  than  any  other 
Pacific  campaign.  By  the  time  the  campaign  officially  closed  on  15  August  1945,  over 
sixteen  American  divisions,  or  their  equivalents,  were  committed  to  the  liberation  of 
the  Philippines  and  the  fulfillment  of  MacArthur's  promise. 

Starting  with  the  landings  at  Lingayen  Gulf,  this  volume  traces  the  advance  of  the 
U.S.  troops  through  the  Philippine  central  plains  and  the  recapture  of  Clark  Air  Base 
and  Manila.  The  volume  ends  with  U.S.  troops  in  northern  Luzon  and  the  southern 
Philippines.  Unusual  for  the  Pacific  theater  are  the  operations  associated  with  the 
capture  of  a  major  urban  center,  which  proved  to  be  more  costly  and  destructive  than 
originally  estimated. 

Accurate  intelligence,  always  in  short  supply  during  hostilities,  proved  no  less 
allusive  in  1 945.  Throughout  the  campaign  intelligence  estimates  between  Mac  Arthur 
and  his  field  headquarters  varied  widely,  affecting  both  strategic  and  tactical 


56 


READER'S  GUIDE 


decisions.  No  where  is  this  more  evident  than  in  the  D-day  estimate  of  Japanese 
strength  on  Luzon.  Eight  days  after  the  invasion,  the  Sixth  Army’s  original  estimate 
of  1 52,500  defenders  had  been  raised  to  234,500,  which  proved  closer  to  the  Japanese 
actual  strength  of  some  250,000.  Continued  overly  optimistic  assessments  of 
Japanese  strength  eventually  took  its  toll  in  American  casualties  and  on  morale  during 
the  seven  and  one-half  months  of  campaigning. 

When  the  war  ended.  General  Yasmashita,  the  Japanese  commander,  was  still 
conducting  an  active  defense  in  northern  Luzon  with  over  65,000  troops,  estimated 
at  the  time  by  General  Krueger  to  be  no  more  then  23,000.  Because  of  the  surrender, 
large  numbers  of  Japanese  sources  were  available  to  the  author,  providing  insight  into 
the  extensive  Japanese  dispositions,  plans,  and  actions.  The  reader  will  find  that  due 
credit  is  given  in  this  volume  to  the  Japanese  and  their  defense  of  the  Philippines. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Assault  of  an  urban  center  (Manila)  (Chs.  XIII-XVI). 

2.  Intelligence  estimates  during  the  Philippine  campaign  (Chs.  II,  X,  XVIII, 
XXIX). 

3.  Use  of  armor  (Chs.  II,  V,  VI,  IX,  XI,  XXIX). 

4.  Use  of  guerrillas  in  support  of  U.S.  troops  (Chs.  XVII,  XXII,  XXV,  XXVI, 
XXX,  XXXI). 

5.  Use  of  tactical  air  to  support  ground  operations  (Chs.  II,  IV,  XIII,  XVII). 

6.  Airborne  operations  in  support  of  the  campaign  (Chs.  XII,  XVII,  XXIX). 

7.  Assault  of  heavily  armed  and  fortified  island  positions  (Ch.  XIX). 

8.  Amphibious  landings  in  the  Philippines  (Chs.  II,  IV,  VI,  XVII,  XXII,  XXXI). 

OKINAWA :  THE  LAST  BATTLE.  By  Roy  E.  Appleman ,  James  M.  B  urns,  Russell 
A.  Gugeler,  and  John  Stevens.  (1948, 1984,  1991 ;  529  pages,  10  tables,  9  charts,  54 
maps,  107  illustrations,  3  appendixes,  bibliographical  note,  index,  CMH  Pub  5-11.) 

Okinawa:  The  Last  Battle  is  a  tactical  history  of  the  conquest  of  the  Ryukyu 
Islands  by  forces  under  the  command  of  the  U.S.  Tenth  Army  in  the  period  1  April 
to  30  June  1945.  The  volume  takes  its  name  from  the  principal  island  of  the  Ryukyu 
island  group,  where  the  critical  and  decisive  battles  of  the  campaign  were  fought.  The 
Ryukyus  Campaign  followed  the  capture  of  Iwo  Jima  and  was  planned  as  the  last  of 
the  Pacific  island  operations  before  the  invasion  of  Japan  itself. 

This  work  is  an  account  of  all  United  States  forces  engaged — Army,  Navy,  Air, 
and  Marine.  It  also  tells  in  considerable  detail  the  story  of  the  Japanese  32d  Army, 
which  was  the  Okinawa  garrison,  and  of  Japanese  naval  and  air  forces  committed  in 
the  defense  of  the  Ryukyus.  The  volume  begins  with  the  planning  for  this  amphibious 
operation  at  the  threshold  of  Japan,  one  of  the  largest  of  the  Pacific  war,  and  follows 
the  operation  through  all  succeeding  phases  to  the  death  of  the  Japanese  commanding 
general  and  his  chief  of  staff. 

Of  special  interest  was  the  tremendous  volume  of  naval  firepower  employed  by 
ships  stationed  offshore  on  the  flanks  of  the  American  ground  forces  as  the  latter 
advanced  across  the  island.  The  concentration  of  naval,  air,  and  ground  firepower 
employed  by  American  forces  in  the  Okinawa  campaign  was  unparalleled  for  any 


THE  WAR  IN  THE  PACIFIC 


57 


comparable  force,  length  of  front,  and  duration  of  time  in  the  history  of  warfare. 
Nevertheless,  blunting  this  great  firepower  was  the  most  extensive  network  of 
underground  cave  and  tunnel  defenses  with  tightly  interlocking  fields  of  fire  encoun¬ 
tered  in  the  history  of  warfare.  The  Japanese  defensive  system  stretched  from  coast 
to  coast  and  converged  ring  upon  ring  in  depth,  with  Shuri,  the  ancient  capital  of  the 
Ryukyus,  at  its  center. 

The  battle  resolved  itself  into  a  myriad  of  small-unit  actions  against  enemy  cave 
and  firing  positions.  This  fight  was  conducted  at  close  quarters  by  infantry-engineer 
and  infantry-tank  teams.  Tank  flamethrowers  and  engineer  and  infantry  demolition 
teams,  covered  by  small  groups  of  riflemen,  often  formed  the  combat  units  that 
enabled  Tenth  Army  slowly  to  destroy  the  many  well-constructed  defensive  posi¬ 
tions,  eliminate  their  dedicated  defenders,  and  move  gradually  forward.  The 
extensive  attacks  of  Japanese  Kamikaze  pilots  against  the  American  naval  forces 
supporting  the  ground  forces  are  also  treated  as  an  important  part  of  the  operation. 

The  ground  combat  story  is  told  principally  from  regimental  level.  But  as  often 
as  not,  the  treatment  goes  down  to  battalion  level  and  frequently  to  company,  platoon, 
and  squad.  It  was  the  small  unit  that  normally  destroyed  a  particular  enemy  position 
holding  the  key  to  further  advances.  Often  it  was  the  individual  soldier  whose  heroism 
was  the  decisive  factor  in  such  laborious  activities,  making  it  the  theme  of  the 
immediate  narrative. 

The  XXIV  Army  Corps  and  the  III  Amphibious  Corps,  U.S.  Fleet  Marine  Force, 
were  the  principal  subordinate  units  of  Tenth  Army.  In  the  two  corps  were  the  Army’s 
7th,  27th,  77th,  and  96th  Infantry  Divisions  and  the  1  st  and  6th  Marine  Divisions.  In 
addition,  the  2d  Marine  Division  played  a  minor  role  in  the  preinvasion  maneuvers, 
and  its  18th  Regiment  was  in  limited  action  for  a  few  days  toward  the  end  of  the 
campaign. 

Key  topics: 

1.  The  planning  and  conduct  of  a  major  amphibious  operation  (Chs.  I,  II). 

2.  Naval  participation  in  an  amphibious  operation  (Chs.  I— III). 

3.  Establishment  of  beachheads  on  a  hostile  shore  (Chs.  Ill— VII). 

4.  Assault  on  a  strongly  defended  small  island  (Ie  Shima)  (Ch.  VII). 

5.  Attack  and  defense  of  a  fortified  line  (Chs.  V,  VIII,  IX,  XI,  XIII,  XIV,  XVII). 

6.  Attack  of  a  fortified  area  (Chs.  VIII-XV). 

7.  Small-unit  tactics  (Chs.  V,  VII,  VIII,  XI,  XIII,  XIV,  XV,  XVII). 

8.  Cave  and  tunnel  defense  (Chs.  VIII,  IX,  XI,  XVII). 

9.  Successful  (enemy)  withdrawal  under  attack  (Ch.  XV). 

10.  Naval  gunfire  support  of  operations  ashore  (Ch.  VIII). 

1 1 .  Employment  of  armor  in  broken  terrain  (Chs.  V,  VII,  VIII,  IX,  XI,  XIII,  XIV, 
XVII). 

12.  Artillery  (Ch.  VIII). 

1 3.  Air  support — Navy,  Marine,  and  Army — much  of  it  in  close  support  of  ground 
operations  (see  Index:  “Air  support”). 

14.  Improvised  use  of  weapons  (Ch.  X). 

15.  Supply  (Ch.  XVI). 

16.  Intelligence  (Chs.  IV,  XV). 


58 


READER’S  GUIDE 


17.  Influence  of  weather  (rain)  (pp.  360-82). 

18.  The  relation  of  strategy  and  tactics  (Ch.  X). 

1 9.  Japanese  defense: 

a.  Organization  and  weapons  (Ch.  IV). 

b.  Counterattack  (Ch.  XII). 

c.  Kamikaze  attacks  (Chs.  Ill,  IV). 

d.  Hara-kiri  (Ch.  XVIII). 


The  Mediterranean  Theater 
of  Operations 


The  Mediterranean  Theater 
of  Operations 


This  four-volume  subseries  begins  with  American  troops,  part  of  the  Allied 
Expeditionary  Force,  wading  through  the  surf  on  the  beaches  of  Northwest  Africa  on 
8  November  1 942  and  ends  in  the  Italian  Alps  some  3 1  months  later  with  the  German 
surrender  in  May  1945.  With  supply  lines  always  stretched  to  the  breaking  point, 
American  and  Allied  soldiers  faced  a  determined  and  resourceful  enemy,  harsh 
weather,  inhospitable  terrain,  and  indefinite  goals  in  what  many  would  later  consider 
as  little  more  than  a  sideshow  to  the  “real”  war  in  northern  Europe. 

Nevertheless,  as  these  volumes  trace  the  slow  but  steady  advance  of  the  Allies 
from  North  Africa,  through  Sicily,  and  up  the  Italian  boot,  the  role  that  these 
campaigns  played  in  wearing  down  the  Axis  powers  and  contributing  to  the  final 
victory  becomes  evident.  The  authors  also  devote  considerable  attention  to  the 
politico-military  negotiations  leading  to  the  surrender  of  the  Italian  Army,  where 
military  men  were  required  to  double  as  diplomats. 


NORTHWEST  AFRICA:  SEIZING  THE  INITIATIVE  IN  THE  WEST.  By 

George  F.  Howe.  (1957,  1985,  1991;  748  pages,  11  tables,  2  charts,  34  maps,  89 
illustrations,  note  on  sources,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  6-1.) 

This  volume  is  the  history  of  the  campaigns  in  World  War  II  in  which  U.S.  Army 
forces  were  first  extensively  engaged.  It  covers  Operation  TORCH,  a  massive 
amphibious,  surprise  assault  in  November  1942,  after  which  the  Allies  speedily 
gained  control  of  French  Morocco  and  Algeria  and  obtained  a  toehold  in  Tunisia.  It 
then  describes  the  campaign  in  Tunisia  which,  beginning  with  stalemate  in  December 
1942,  involved  broadening  fronts,  a  buildup  on  both  sides,  concentration  in  Tunisia 
of  Allied  and  Axis  forces  previously  engaged  in  western  Egypt  and  Libya,  seesawing 
combat,  and  finally  constriction  of  all  Axis  forces  within  northeastern  Tunisia,  where 
they  surrendered  en  masse  on  13  May  1943. 

Other  volumes  of  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II  also  discuss  TORCH. 
Its  broader  strategic  connections  are  treated  in  Strategic  Planning  for  Coalition 
Warfare:  1941-1942,  and  its  effects  on  the  logistical  planning,  resources,  and 
capabilities  of  the  Allies  are  taken  up  in  Global  Logistics  and  Strategy:  1940-1943. 
But  it  is  here  that  the  reader  will  find  TORCH  and  the  Tunisia  Campaign  described  in 
their  immediate  political  and  military  context.  The  author  has  drawn  on  abundant 


62 


READER'S  GUIDE 


German  sources  to  illuminate  the  strategy  and  tactics  of  the  enemy  and  produce  a  two- 
sided  picture.  Although  primarily  concerned  with  the  role  of  U.S.  ground  forces,  the 
narrative  relates  their  efforts  to  the  operations  of  sea  and  air  forces  of  the  several 
nations  in  both  coalitions  and  takes  into  account  the  plans  and  operations  by  which 
the  Allies  wrested  air  superiority  from  the  Axis. 

The  inexperienced  ground  forces  of  the  United  States  were  assigned  holding  or 
diversionary  missions  throughout  the  campaign  in  Tunisia.  But  they  learned  from 
experience,  and  in  the  final  Allied  drive  in  the  spring  of  1943  General  Bradley’s  II 
Corps  broke  out  of  the  mountains  and  occupied  Bizerte  at  the  same  time  that  the 
British  took  Tunis. 

Northwest  Africa  is  a  study  of  the  trial-and-error  process  that  characterized 
America’s  first  large-scale  campaign.  It  has  unique  interest  as  the  narrative  of  the  first 
invasion  in  World  War  II  of  territory  held  by  a  friendly  nation,  in  which  one  objective 
of  the  Allies  was  to  revive  the  military  resistance  of  the  French  to  the  Axis  conquerors. 
The  planning  and  execution  of  Torch  were  deeply  conditioned  by  political  consid¬ 
erations,  and  throughout  both  of  the  campaigns  recounted  in  this  volume  the  Allied 
command  was  ceaselessly  confronted  by  difficult  political  issues  along  with  those  of 
a  more  strictly  military  nature. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Allied  and  Axis  command  structures  compared  (Chs.  XIX,  XXIV,  XXV). 

2.  Tactical  planning  of  joint  task  forces  (Ch.  III). 

3.  Problems  of  a  successful  command  occupying  colonial  territory  of  a  friendly 
nation  (Chs.  IX,  XII,  XIV). 

4.  Large-scale  amphibious  surprise  assault  on  lightly  defended  shores  (Chs.  VI, 
VII,  VIII,  XI,  XIII). 

5.  Offensive  and  defensive  tactics  along  a  broad  front  (Chs.  XX-XXIV). 

6.  Establishing  an  integrated  coalition  headquarters  (Ch.  III). 

7.  Organized  cooperation  with  the  French  on  a  clandestine  basis  (Chs.  IV,  X). 

8.  Defense  of  a  mountain  pass  (Ch.  XXIII). 

9.  Uncoordinated  attacks  and  piecemeal  commitment  of  forces  (Chs.  XXV- 
XXVII). 

1 0.  Rearmament  of  the  French  (Chs.  XIV,  XVIII,  XXV). 

SICILY  AND  THE  SURRENDER  OF  ITALY.  By  Albert  N .Garland  and  Howard 
McGaw  Smyth.  (1965,  1986,  1991;  609  pages,  17  maps,  113  illustrations,  4 
appendixes,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  6-2.) 

This  volume  describes  the  events  surrounding  the  invasion  of  Sicily  in  July  1 943 
and  the  subsequent  surrender  of  the  Italian  government.  The  book  is  divided  into  three 
sections.  The  first  part  sets  the  strategic  stage  by  describing  the  debate  between 
American  and  British  strategists  over  the  course  of  Allied  operations  in  the  Mediter¬ 
ranean  theater  during  1943.  In  recounting  how  the  Allies  came  to  agree  upon  the 
invasion  of  Sicily  at  the  Casablanca  Conference,  the  authors  illustrate  the  difficulties 
of  crafting  grand  strategy  in  coalition  warfare.  Additional  aspects  of  the  decision  to 
invade  Sicily  and  the  interplay  of  Mediterranean  operations  with  the  proposed  cross- 


THE  MEDITERRANEAN  THEATER  OF  OPERATIONS 


63 


Channel  invasion  of  France  can  be  found  in  Strategic  Planning for  Coalition  Warfare: 
1943-1 944,  Northwest  Africa:  Seizing  the  Initiative  in  the  West ,  and  the  two  volumes 
on  Global  Logistics  and  Strategy.  The  problems  of  coalition  warfare  were  not  limited 
to  the  Allied  side,  however,  and  the  book  relates  the  difficulties  the  Axis  experienced 
in  formulating  strategic  plans  and  in  defining  command  relationships.  Part  One  of 
Sicily  and  the  Surrender  of  Italy  concludes  with  an  analysis  of  Allied  plans  for  the 
invasion  of  Sicily,  code-named  Operation  Husky,  and  Axis  defensive  measures.  In 
doing  so,  the  volume  highlights  the  challenges  Allied  planners  faced  in  designing 
what  was  at  that  time  the  largest  amphibious  landing  of  World  War  II. 

The  second  section  of  the  present  volume  describes  the  invasion  and  conquest  of 
Sicily — a  rugged  island  bastion  whose  mountainous  terrain  greatly  assisted  the  Axis 
defenders.  The  narrative  fully  examines  the  key  Allied  operational  decisions  of  the 
campaign,  including  General  Sir  Harold  Alexander’s  decision  to  shift  the  direction  of 
the  U.S.  Seventh  Army’s  advance,  General  George  Patton’s  sweep  to  Palermo,  and 
Anglo-American  rivalry  in  the  race  for  Messina.  Axis  actions  on  the  island  are  also 
well  documented.  The  book  focuses,  however,  on  the  operations  of  the  American 
Seventh  Army.  The  combat  narrative  is  written  largely  at  the  division  and  regimental 
level  but  occasionally  dips  down  to  individual  companies  in  key  combat  actions.  The 
type  of  operations  described  in  the  book  include  airborne  and  amphibious  assaults, 
establishment  and  defense  of  a  beachhead,  mountain  combat,  and  German  rear  guard 
tactics.  Part  Two  of  the  volume  culminates  in  the  final  Allied  drive  to  Messina  and 
the  evacuation  of  Axis  forces  to  Italy. 

The  invasion  of  Sicily  sent  shock  waves  through  war-weary  Italy  and  set  in 
motion  a  movement  that  eventually  toppled  Mussolini  from  power.  Part  Three  of 
Sicily  and  the  Surrender  of  Italy  returns  to  the  strategic  level,  detailing  the  secret 
negotiations  that  eventually  led  to  Italy’s  capitulation  to  the  Allies,  as  well  as 
Germany  ’  s  countermeasures  to  seize  control  of  the  country.  A  discussion  of  the  Allied 
decision  to  exploit  the  demise  of  fascism  in  Italy  serves  as  a  prologue  for  the  next 
volume  in  The  Mediterranean  Theater  of  Operations  subseries,  Salerno  to  Cassino. 

Key  topics: 

1.  Strategic  planning  in  coalition  warfare,  including  the  debate  between  the 
advocates  of  a  “peripheral”  strategy  and  a  cross-Channel  attack;  the  decision  to 
invade  Sicily;  the  Casablanca,  Trident,  and  Quebec  conferences;  and  the  question 
of  how  to  exploit  the  collapse  of  Italy  (Chs.  I,  XIV,  XXI). 

2.  The  erosion  and  ultimate  dissolution  of  the  Rome-Berlin  Axis  (Chs.  II,  XIV, 
XV,XXIV-XXIX). 

3.  Planning  and  organizing  a  large-scale,  joint  and  combined  invasion  against  a 
defended  coast  (Operation  Husky)  (Chs.  Ill,  V). 

4.  Negotiations  for  the  surrender  of  Italy  (Chs.  XXII-XXIX). 

5.  Evolution  of  invasion  plans  (Chs.  Ill,  V). 

6.  The  first  major  Allied  airborne  operation  of  World  War  II  (Chs.  VI,  VII,  IX, 
XXI). 

7.  Allied  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  VI,  VII,  XVIII,  XX,  XXI). 

8.  Modifying  a  campaign  plan  during  the  course  of  operations  (Chs.  XI,  XII, 
XIII). 


64 


READER'S  GUIDE 


9.  Challenges  posed  to  U.S.  forces  by  mountain  warfare  and  German  defensive 
techniques  (Chs.  XVI,  XVII,  XVIII). 

10.  The  successful  Axis  evacuation  of  Sicily  (Chs.  XIX,  XXI). 

1 1.  Difficulties  in  strategic  and  tactical  surface-air  coordination  (Chs.  V,  IX, 
XXI). 

12.  Efforts  to  deceive  the  Axis  about  Allied  invasion  plans  (Chs.  Ill,  IV). 

13.  Patton  and  the  slapping  incident  (Ch.  XXI). 

SALERNO  TO  CASSINO.  By  Martin  Blumenson.  (1969,  1988;  491  pages,  16 
maps,  94  illustrations,  2  appendixes,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub 
6-3.) 

In  September  1943  a  combined  British  and  American  amphibious  force  finally 
made  the  first  Allied  landing  on  the  continent  of  Europe.  After  campaigns  which 
began  with  amphibious  assaults  in  both  Africa  and  Sicily,  the  Allies  were  hoping  that 
the  invasion  of  Italy  would  be  an  equally  successful  endeavor.  Although  the  Italian 
capitulation  on  the  eve  of  the  invasion  filled  the  troops  with  confidence  that  enemy 
resistance  would  rapidly  collapse,  the  Allied  campaign  in  Italy  was  as  tough  as  any 
fought  in  World  War  II;  if  anything,  the  Italian  surrender  hardened  German  resistance. 
Salerno  to  Cassino  begins  the  story  of  the  Allied  effort  to  wrest  control  of  Italy  from 
its  German  occupiers,  while  Cassino  to  the  Alps  provides  the  conclusion. 

The  confrontation  in  Italy  was  the  first  time  Allied  armies  faced  the  German  Army 
in  a  sustained  campaign  on  the  European  mainland.  During  the  first  eight  months 
covered  by  this  volume  the  fighting  was  brutal  and  the  situation  on  both  sides  was 
anything  but  optimistic.  The  opponents  faced  the  same  difficult  terrain  and  bad 
weather  and  shared  similar  supply  problems.  The  Germans,  defending  in  the  south, 
had  their  long  supply  lines  subjected  to  the  ever-increasing  Allied  air  power,  and  the 
Allies  had  a  chronic  shortage  of  practically  all  types  of  shipping. 

Although  the  author  focuses  on  the  tactical  activities  of  the  Allies  with  special 
emphasis  on  the  U.S.  Fifth  Army,  he  also  provides  the  strategic  framework  within 
which  those  activities  took  place.  The  account  includes  the  German  point  of  view  and 
sketches  of  air  and  naval  activities  pertinent  to  understanding  the  ground  situation. 
Highlights  of  the  volume  include  the  problems  faced  by  American  forces  in  the  initial 
landings  at  Salerno,  the  difficulties  encountered  while  attempting  to  force  a  crossing 
of  the  flooded  Rapido  River,  the  controversial  decision  to  bomb  the  historical 
Benedictine  abbey  on  Monte  Cassino,  and  the  stalemate  at  the  Anzio  beachhead. 

Key  topics: 

1.  Amphibious  assaults  (Chs.  Ill,  IV,  VI,  VII,  VIII,  XX). 

2.  River  crossings  (Chs.  XII,  XIII,  XVIII,  XIX). 

3.  Assaulting  fortified  towns  (Chs.  X,  XVI,  XXI,  XXV). 

4.  Mountain  warfare  (Chs.  XII,  XIII). 

5.  Small-unit  tactics  (Chs.  X,  XII,  XIII,  XVI,  XVIII,  XIX,  XXI,  XXIV). 

6.  Use  of  air  power  (Chs.  XIV,  XXIII,  XXIV). 

7.  German  command  problems  (Chs.  V,  XI,  XIV,  XX,  XXIV). 

8.  Strategic  decision  making  in  coalition  warfare  (Chs.  I,  X,  XI,  X3V,  XVII,  XXVI). 


THE  MEDITERRANEAN  THEATER  OF  OPERATIONS 


65 


9.  German  defensive  tactics  (Chs.  XIII,  XV). 

10.  Use  of  airborne  troops  (Ch.  VIII). 

1 1.  Coalition  command  considerations  (Chs.  IX,  XXIV). 


CASSINOTOTHE  ALPS.  By  Ernest  F.  Fisher,  Jr.  (1977,  1989;  584  pages,  27 
maps,  92  illustrations,  appendix,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  6- 
4.) 


This  volume  continues  the  story  of  the  Italian  campaign  with  the  Allied  spring 
offensive  in  May  1 944  which  carried  two  Allied  armies — the  U.S.  Fifth  and  the  British 
Eighth — to  Rome  by  4  June  and  to  the  final  German  capitulation  in  May  1945. 
Represented  in  these  armies  were  Americans,  Belgians,  Brazilians,  British,  Canadi¬ 
ans,  Cypriots,  French  (including  mountain  troops  from  Algeria  and  Morocco), 
Palestinian  Jews,  East  Indians,  Italians,  Nepalese,  New  Zealanders,  Poles,  South 
Africans,  Syro-Lebanese,  and  Yugoslavians.  The  Fifth  Army  also  included  the  U.S. 
Army’s  only  specialized  mountain  division,  one  of  its  two  segregated  all-black 
divisions,  and  a  regimental  combat  team  composed  solely  of  Americans  of  Japanese 
descent. 

The  campaign  involved  one  ponderous  attack  after  another  against  fortified 
positions:  the  Winter  Line,  the  Gustav  Line  (including  Monte  Cassino),  and  the 
Gothic  Line.  It  called  for  ingenuity  in  employing  tanks  and  tank  destroyers  over 
terrain  that  severely  restricted  the  use  of  mobile  forces.  In  addition  the  Allied  attackers 
constantly  had  to  devise  new  methods  to  supply  forces  fighting  through  dangerous 
mountain  terrain  in  central  Italy  or  those  fighting  in  flooded  lowlands  along  the 
Adriatic  coast. 

It  was  also  a  campaign  replete  with  controversy,  as  might  have  been  expected  in 
a  theater  where  the  presence  of  many  nationalities  and  two  fairly  equal  partners 
imposed  considerable  strain  on  the  process  of  coalition  command.  Among  the  most 
troublesome  questions  was  the  judgment  of  American  commander,  Lt.Gen.  Mark 
Clark,  to  focus  on  the  capture  of  Rome  rather  than  conforming  with  the  wishes  of  his 
British  superior  who  was  more  concerned  with  trapping  the  retreating  German  forces. 
Other  issues  have  proved  equally  controversial.  Did  Allied  commanders  conduct  the 
pursuit  north  of  Rome  with  sufficient  vigor?  Indeed,  should  the  campaign  have  been 
pursued  all  the  way  to  the  Alps  when  the  Allies  might  have  halted  at  some  readily 
defensible  line  and  awaited  the  outcome  of  the  decisive  campaign  in  northwestern 
Europe? 

Just  as  the  campaign  began  on  a  note  of  covert  politico-military  maneuvering  to 
achieve  the  surrender  of  the  Italian  forces,  so  it  ended  in  intrigue  and  secret 
negotiations  for  a  separate  surrender  of  the  Germans  in  Italy.  Nevertheless,  the  570 
days  which  the  Allies  battled  in  Italy  made  it  the  longest  sustained  Allied  campaign 
of  World  War  II.  The  narrative  ranges  from  detailed  descriptions  of  company-level 
tactics  up  through  division,  corps,  and  army  with  considerable  tactical  detail  at  each 
level  of  command. 


66 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Key  topics: 

1.  Grand  strategy  from  both  Allied  and  German  points  of  view,  including 
opposing  command  structures,  and  operational  planning  at  army,  corps,  and  division 
level,  both  Allied  and  German  (Chs.  I,  II). 

2.  Corps  operations  in  mountainous  terrain  (Chs.  Ill,  IV). 

3.  Planning  for  and  breakout  from  a  beachhead  under  enemy  observation  (Chs.  VI, 
VII,  VIII). 

4.  Mountain  warfare,  including  classic  stratagem  for  breaking  through  mountain 
defenses,  the  use  of  trained  mountain  infantry  in  a  flanking  maneuver,  and  the 
penetration  of  mountain  passes  (Chs.  X,  XXIV,  XXVI). 

5.  Pursuit  operations  on  a  two-army  front  (Ch.  XIII). 

6.  Armor  in  rugged  terrain  (Chs.  XIII,  XIV). 

7.  River  crossings  on  a  broad  front  (Ch.  XXVIII). 

8.  Surrender  negotiations  (Ch.  XXX). 

9.  Artillery  support  (see  Index:  “Artillery”). 

10.  Operations  in  adverse  conditions  of  weather  and  soil  (mud,  cold,  rain,  and 
floods)  (see  Index:  “Floods;  Mud;  Terrain;  Weather”). 


The  European  Theater 
of  Operations 


The  European 
Theater  of  Operations 


What  and  how  three  and  one-half  to  four  million  Americans  contributed  to  victory 
in  the  European  Theater  of  Operations  (ETO)  during  World  War  II  is  told  in  the  ten 
volumes  of  the  European  subseries  of  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II.  These 
volumes  are  histories  of  units,  commanders,  headquarters,  planning,  decisions, 
strategy,  tactics,  and  logistics.  Because  the  end  purpose  of  all  activity  in  the  theater 
was — as  always  in  war — to  close  with  the  enemy  and  destroy  him,  a  majority  of  the 
volumes  deal  with  tactical  operations.  Yet  armies  without  overall  direction  are  little 
more  than  armed  mobs:  one  volume  thus  tells  the  story  of  the  Supreme  Headquarters 
and  the  man  who  provided  direction.  Nor  can  a  field  army  function  without 
equipment,  personnel  replacements,  supplies,  or  transport:  two  volumes  tell  this 
story. 

The  limits  of  the  individual  tactical  volumes  in  this  subseries  were  fixed 
according  to  well-defined  phases  of  the  operations  in  the  ETO,  rather  than  by  arbitrary 
dates.  Though  an  individual  volume  may  deal  with  one  or  more  armies  in  a  given  area 
at  a  given  time,  it  contains  adequate  background  and  corollary  information  for 
understanding  the  place  of  these  particular  operations  in  the  larger  context.  The 
influence  of  theater  strategy,  logistics,  and  adjacent  combat  operations  is  integrated 
into  each  story.  Thus,  each  volume  is  an  entity  that  can  be  read  separately  with  profit; 
at  the  same  time  each  takes  a  natural  place  in  the  framework  of  the  whole. 

Because  the  war  in  Europe  was  an  Allied  effort,  the  tactical  operations  of  the 
British,  Canadians,  French,  and  other  Western  Allies  have  been  sketched  or  summa¬ 
rized  to  place  the  American  role  in  more  realistic  perspective.  Every  effort  has  also 
been  made  to  avoid  a  nationalistic  slant  and  to  present  fairly  the  critical  problems  of 
the  grand  alliance  as  revealed  in  planning  and  execution  of  strategy  and  operations. 
Nevertheless,  it  has  not  been  possible,  nor  was  it  intended,  to  develop  in  full  the 
narrative  of  Allied  participation.  Based  largely  on  U.S.  records,  these  volumes 
inevitably  are  written  from  an  American  point  of  view. 

As  these  books  are  focused  on  the  American  role,  so  also  are  they  a  history  of 
United  States  ground  operations  rather  than  sea  and  air.  The  reader  is  constantly  made 
aware,  nonetheless,  that  the  sister  services  were  vital  parts  of  a  team.  Where  air  and 
naval  matters  directly  affected  policy  or  operations  in  the  theater,  this  material  is 
retained.  In  particular,  the  campaign  volumes  develop  the  role  of  tactical  air  forces 
as  they  affected  fighting  on  the  ground. 

The  story  would  be  far  less  instructive  without  the  corresponding  picture  from  the 
enemy  side.  By  study  of  interrogations  and  personal  narratives  of  German  officers, 
of  captured  documents,  and  of  military  records  surrendered  upon  termination  of 


70 


READER'S  GUIDE 


hostilities,  an  accurate,  interrelated  account  of  enemy  plans  and  operations  has  been 
developed  to  a  degree  not  common  in  previous  histories  of  this  kind. 

In  the  campaign  volumes,  attention  has  been  focused,  of  necessity,  on  combat 
formations  actually  in  the  line.  Nevertheless,  the  vital  combination  of  arms  and 
services  essential  to  victory  has  not  been  overlooked.  The  verity  and  necessity  of  this 
combination  are  emphasized  by  the  volumes  on  the  supreme  command  and  logistics. 
The  basic  unit  of  the  narrative  in  the  campaign  volumes  varies,  depending  on  the  scope 
of  the  particular  volume.  Usually  it  is  the  division  whose  story  is  told  in  terms  of 
regiments  and  battalions. 

The  Supreme  Command  was  designed  as  the  capstone  of  the  subseries.  A  history 
of  Supreme  Headquarters,  it  covers  Allied  Expeditionary  Force  (SHAEF)  theater 
command  and  the  Supreme  Commander  focusing  on  the  nature  of  coalition  command 
and  the  critical  decisions  made.  Tactical  operations  at  army  group  level  are  discussed, 
covering  the  entire  war  from  D-day  to  V-E  Day.  In  addition,  more  attention  than  in 
other  volumes  is  given  to  political  or  nonoperational  questions:  civil  affairs,  press 
relations,  military  government,  and  so  forth. 

Cross-Channel  Attack  introduces  the  subseries  providing  background  for  study 
of  all  the  campaigns  in  the  European  Theater  of  Operations.  The  volume  focuses  on 
planning  of  OVERLORD;  D-day,  the  Normandy  invasion;  and  tactical  operations  to 
1  July  1944,  when  the  Allies  were  assured  of  the  success  of  the  Overlord  invasion, 
the  fruition  of  plans  and  preparations  reaching  back  as  far  as  January  1942. 

Breakout  and  Pursuit  cov  ers  the  “Battle  of  the  Hedgerows”  leading  to  Operation 
Cobra  and  victory  in  Normandy.  The  Falaise-Argentan  pocket  and  the  Mortain 
counterattack  are  also  included,  as  are  operations  in  Brittany,  the  reduction  of  Brest, 
and  liberation  of  Paris.  The  volume  closes  with  the  pursuit  across  northern  France  and 
Belgium  by  the  U.S.  First  and  Third  Armies,  ending  in  early  September  at  the  German 
frontier  and  the  gates  of  Lorraine. 

The  Lorraine  Campaign  chronicles  the  U.S.  Third  Army's  struggle  through  the 
slow,  arduous  campaigning  of  the  fall  of  1 944,  from  the  Moselle  to  the  German  border 
and  the  West  Wall  in  the  Saar  region.  After  the  reduction  of  Metz,  the  story  ends  on 
1 8  December  when  the  Third  Army  was  diverted  to  move  against  the  German  winter 
counteroffensive  in  the  Ardennes. 

The  Siegfried  Line  Campaign  parallels  the  effort  in  Lorraine,  following  the  U.S. 
First  and  Ninth  Armies  during  the  fall  of  1944  through  similar  costly  fighting.  The 
narrative  takes  the  readers  from  first  crossings  of  the  German  border  on  1 1  September 
to  the  enemy ’s  counteroffensive,  which  ended  the  campaign  abruptly  inside  Germany 
along  the  Roer  River  on  16  December.  Highlighted  are  piercing  the  West  Wall,  the 
reduction  of  Aachen,  the  bitter  fighting  in  the  Huertgen  Forest,  and  the  operations  of 
the  First  Allied  Airborne  Army  in  Operation  Market-Garden  in  the  Netherlands. 
American  participation  in  opening  Antwerp  and  clearing  the  Peel  Marshes  is  also 
included. 

Riviera  to  the  Rhine  focuses  on  the  Anvil/Dragoon  amphibious  assault  in 
southern  France  on  1 5  August  1 944  and  thereafter  covers  the  tactical  operations  of  the 
6th  Army  Group  (Seventh  U.S.  and  First  French  Armies)  until  February  1945.  The 
initial  lodgment,  the  pursuit  up  the  Rhone  valley,  and  winter  warfare  in  the  Vosges 


71 


THE  EUROPEAN  THEATER  OF  OPERATIONS 

{are  all  highlighted,  as  are  the  German  Nordwind  offensive  and  the  reduction  of  the 
Colmar  Pocket. 

The  Ardennes  treats  the  German  winter  counteroffensive  in  Belgium  and  Luxem¬ 
bourg.  The  volume  covers  the  operations  of  the  U.S.  First  and  Third  Armies  from  the 
start  on  16  December  1944  to  3  January  1945,  when  successful  elimination  of  the 
“bulge”  was  assured. 

The  Last  Offensive  chronicles  the  operations  of  all  five  U.S.  armies  from  early 
1945  to  V-E  Day.  Special  attention  is  given  to  Operation  Grenade  and  the  sweep 
to  the  Rhine;  the  seizure  of  the  Remagen  bridge;  the  multiple  crossings  of  the  Rhine; 
and  the  employment  of  airborne  troops  in  Operation  Varsity.  The  story  ends  with 
the  drive  to  the  Elbe  and  juncture  with  the  Soviets  and,  in  the  south,  with  the 
occupation  of  Germany’s  Alpine  Redoubt. 

Logistical  Support  of  the  Armies ,  2  volumes,  is  the  keystone  rather  than  the 
capstone  of  the  subseries.  Relating  the  story  of  the  campaigns  and  the  decisions  of 
higher  commanders  to  the  tyranny  which  logistics  exercises  on  their  conduct,  it 
discusses  tremendous  materiel  buildup  in  the  United  Kingdom  preceding  D-day,  the 
logistical  aspects  of  the  invasion,  and  the  effect  of  pursuit  warfare  on  the  Allied 
logistical  structure.  Volume  I  ends  with  the  termination  of  pursuit  in  mid-September 
1944,  while  Volume  II  carries  the  story  to  V-E  Day. 

THE  SUPREME  COMMAND.  By  Forrest  C.  Pogue.  (1954, 1989;  607  pages,  11 
tables,  9  charts,  16  maps,  64  illustrations,  7  appendixes,  bibliographical  note, 
glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  7-1 .) 

This  book,  while  it  contains  the  history  of  the  Supreme  Headquarters,  Allied 
Expeditionary  Force,  is  focused  on  the  decisions  of  the  Supreme  Commander  rather 
than  the  machinery  of  command.  It  is  primarily  a  history  of  the  decisions  of  General 
of  the  Army  Dwight  D.  Eisenhower. 

To  present  these  decisions  in  the  round,  it  includes  their  background:  the 
situations,  military  and  political,  that  confronted  the  Supreme  Commander;  the 
discussions  leading  to  his  decisions;  and  the  controversies — inter- Allied,  interservice, 
personal,  or  purely  military — which  he  had  to  resolve.  It  also  includes  an  account  of 
the  reactions  to  his  decisions  and  their  effect  on  the  course  of  the  war.  Since  the  author 
drew  his  information  and  impressions  from  interviews  with  more  than  a  hundred  of 

I  the  leading  participants  as  well  as  from  public  and  personal  records,  he  has  been  able 
to  assess  and  illustrate,  in  many  cases,  the  weight  of  personality  as  a  factor  influencing 
Eisenhower’s  final  decisions  and  their  effect.  To  give  further  perspective,  the  author 
has  drawn  on  German  records  and  interrogations  to  present  the  enemy ’s  views,  plans, 
and  positions,  not  always  known  to  the  Supreme  Commander  at  the  time. 

The  period  covered  runs  from  December  1943  to  14  July  1945.  The  author  reaches 
back  (in  Ch.  II)  to  review  the  origins  of  SHAEF  and  to  summarize  (in  Ch.  V)  the 
evolution  of  General  Eisenhower’s  strategic  mission  as  embodied  in  the  Overlord 
plan. 

The  volume  deals  with  the  most  complex  combined  (Allied)  and  joint  (Army, 
Navy,  Air)  command  that  had  appeared  in  the  history  of  war,  a  headquarters  founded 


72 


READER'S  GUIDE 


on  the  principle  of  Allied  “integration,”  first  applied  by  General  Eisenhower  in  his 
organization  of  the  Allied  headquarters  in  the  Mediterranean  in  1 942  ( AFHQ).  It  was 
the  culminating  expression  of  the  principle  of  unity  of  command  which  the  Allies 
applied  in  World  War  II  with  varying  degrees  of  success  in  all  theaters  of  operations. 

Recognizing  this,  the  author  has  included  the  facts  and  references  necessary  for 
a  study  not  only  of  the  antecedents,  machinery,  and  activities  of  SH  AEF  (Chs.  II— IV), 
but  also  of  its  relations,  on  the  one  hand,  with  the  Combined  Chiefs  of  Staff,  the 
supreme  instrument  of  the  Allied  governments  for  the  military  direction  of  the  war, 
and,  on  the  other,  with  the  principal  subordinate  commands  that  directed  operations 
in  northwestern  Europe  on  land  and  sea  and  in  the  air,  from  6  June  1944  until  7  May 
1945. 

The  Supreme  Commander’s  primary  responsibility  was  military,  and  after  2 
September  1944  he  assumed  direct  command  of  the  operations  of  the  ground  forces 
of  the  Allies.  In  order  to  furnish  the  setting  and  trace  the  consequences  of  General 
Eisenhower’s  military  decisions,  the  book  includes  a  full  account  of  the  campaigns 
of  the  Allied  Expeditionary  Force.  The  scale  of  this  account  is  determined  by  the 
outlook  of  SHAEF.  In  general,  it  follows  at  army  and  army  group  level  operations 
that  are  being  recounted  in  greater  detail  in  the  campaign  volumes  of  the  United  States 
Army  in  World  War  II  and  in  the  British  and  Canadian  official  histories.  Since  the 
present  account  is  necessarily  based  chiefly  on  American  records,  it  gives  a  more 
complete  and  authoritative  history  of  American  than  of  British  operations. 

Although  the  Supreme  Commander’s  primary  responsibility  was  military,  the 
scope  of  his  command  repeatedly  put  him  astride  the  traditional  line  between  military 
and  political  considerations  which  modem  war  tends  to  obliterate.  This  line  presented 
a  problem  in  his  relations  with  the  British  and  French  commanders,  particularly  with 
Field  Marshal  Sir  Bernard  L.  Montgomery,  and  in  the  recommendations  he  had  to 
make  on  relations  with  the  Soviets  in  the  last  phase  of  the  war.  The  volume  also 
discusses  in  detail  the  difficulties  of  making  politico-military  decisions  without 
timely,  clear,  or  positive  directives  from  higher  authorities. 

Key  topics: 

1.  The  planning  and  preparations  for  a  vast  inter-Allied  surprise  assault  on  a 
strongly  defended  coast  and  for  pursuit  and  defeat  of  the  enemy  (Chs.  V-VII,  IX).  (The 
plans  and  preparations  here  sketched  are  treated  in  more  detail  in  Cross-Channel 
Attack.) 

2.  Command  decisions  at  the  highest  level  of  Allied  authority  below  the 
Combined  and  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  (see  Index:  “Eisenhower,  General  of  the  Army 
Dwight  D.;  Strategy,  Allied”). 

3.  The  interplay  between  the  views  and  decisions  of  the  Joint  and  Combined 
Chiefs  of  Staff  and  those  of  the  Supreme  Allied  Commander  in  the  field,  a  treatment 
which  supplements  that  given  in  the  strategy  and  logistics  volumes  of  the  United 
States  Army  in  World  War  II  (see  Index:  “Combined  Chiefs  of  Staff;  Joint  Chiefs  of 
Staff;  and  Eisenhower,  General  of  the  Army  Dwight  D.”). 

4.  Unity  of  command,  combined  and  joint  (Chs.  II,  III,  VII,  XV;  see  Index: 
“Command”). 

5.  The  mechanism  and  operations  of  a  headquarters  based  on  the  principles  of 


THE  EUROPEAN  THEATER  OF  OPERATIONS 


73 


command  unity  and  integration  (Ch.  IV). 

6.  The  tendency  to  create  the  large  and  complex  headquarters  characteristic  of 
American  military  organization  in  World  War  II  (App.  B). 

7 .  The  interplay  of  military  and  political  considerations  in  directing  a  command 
of  this  type  (Chs.  II,  VI,  VIII,  XII,  XIII,  XVIII). 

8.  The  campaigns  of  1944-45  in  France,  the  Low  Countries,  and  Germany,  at 
army  group  and  army  level,  including  the  plans  and  operations  of  the  enemy  (Chs.  X- 
XII,  XIV,  XVI,  XVII,  XX-XXIV).  In  this  aspect  the  present  volume  is  the  capstone 
for  the  histories  of  American  operations  and  logistics  in  the  European  theater 
subseries  of  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II  and,  in  a  more  limited  degree, 
for  the  history  of  British,  Canadian,  and  French  operations. 

9.  Military  government  and  the  military  administration  of  civil  affairs,  in  military 
operations  involving  relations  with  a  number  of  liberated  countries  and  the  occupa¬ 
tion  of  enemy  territory  on  the  basis  of  unconditional  surrender  (Chs.  IV,  VIII,  XIII, 
XVIII,  XIX). 

10.  The  controversies  of  General  Eisenhower  and  Field  Marshal  Montgomery 
over  strategy  and  command  (see  Index:  “Eisenhower,  General  of  the  Army  Dwight 
D.,  Montgomery’s  relationship  with”). 

11.  The  surprise  achieved  by  the  Germans  when  they  attacked  in  the  Ardennes 
on  16  December  1944,  and  the  countermeasures  by  which  General  Eisenhower  and 
his  principal  commanders  contained  the  attack  and  regained  the  initiative  (Ch.  XX). 

12.  The  decision  of  General  Eisenhower  to  halt  his  forces  short  of  Berlin  (Ch. 
XXIV). 

13.  Psychological  warfare  (Chs.  IV,  XIX). 

14.  Public  relations  of  SHAEF  (App.  A). 

»• 

CROSS-CHANNEL  ATTACK.  By  Gordon  A.  Harrison.  (1951, 1989;  5 19  pages, 
4  charts,  31  maps,  62  illustrations,  10  appendixes,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries, 
index,  CMH  Pub  7^1.) 

*The  cross-Channel  attack  launched  on  6  June  1 944  under  the  direction  of  Supreme 
Headquarters,  Allied  Expeditionary  Force,  is  a  subject  that  reappears  in  many 
volumes  of  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II,  since  it  involved  the  U.S.  Army 
in  its  most  important  and  largest  single  undertaking  in  the  war.  This  basic  account  of 
the  attack  is  focused  on  the  Army’s  participation  in  it,  both  as  a  plan  and  as  an 
operation.  It  relates  the  project  of  the  assault  from  its  inception  in  1 942  to  the  strategic 
and  logistical  planning  of  the  United  States  and  the  Allies  (Chs.  I— III)  and  to  the  plans, 
strength,  and  position  of  the  enemy  in  1 944  (Chs.  IV  and  VII);  it  describes  the  complex 
plans  and  preparations  for  the  assault  (Chs.  V  and  VI),  then  narrates  the  fighting  of 
the  First  Army  to  establish  a  lodgment  up  to  1  July  1944  (Chs.  VIII,  IX,  and  X). 

Much  of  the  book  (seven  out  of  ten  chapters)  is  devoted  to  planning  and 
preparations  since  this  volume  is  intended  to  serve  as  an  introduction  to  all  of  the 
campaigns  of  the  U.S.  Army  in  the  European  Theater  of  Operations,  as  described  in 
Chapters  VIII-X  and  in  the  other  nine  volumes  of  the  ETO  subseries. 


74 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Other  volumes  in  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II  which  devote  con¬ 
siderable  attention  to  the  cross-Channel  attack  are  Washington  Command  Post:  The 
Operations  Division  ;  The  Supreme  Command;  Logistical  Support  of  the  Armies, 
Volume  I;  and  the  volumes  on  Strategic  Planning  for  Coalition  Warfare.  Detailed 
narratives  of  the  assault  on  6  June  and  the  subsequent  campaign  to  1  July  can  be  found 
in  Omaha  Beachhead  (1945),  Utah  Beach  to  Cherbourg  (1947),  and  Small  Unit 
Actions  ( 1 946),  all  in  the  Army ’s  American  Forces  in  Action  series.  These  narratives 
concentrate  on  the  action  of  small  units  in  combat. 

Cross-Channel  Attack,  like  most  other  campaign  volumes  in  the  ETO  subseries, 
focuses  on  the  division  as  the  basic  fighting  unit,  although  it  often  describes  in 
considerable  detail  the  experiences  of  battalions  and  companies  on  the  fragmented 
fields  of  Normandy.  So  far  as  enemy  records  permit,  it  tells  the  story  of  German  action 
at  the  same  level.  The  Supreme  Command,  on  the  other  hand,  deals  with  D-day  and 
the  campaign  to  establish  the  Normandy  beachhead  and  capture  Cherbourg,  from  the 
point  of  view  of  General  Eisenhower  and  Supreme  Headquarters. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  An  amphibious  assault  on  a  defended  shore  by  a  coalition  force  (for  particulars, 
see  items  that  follow). 

2.  The  Bolero  concept  (Chs.  I— III;  see  Index:  “Bolero”). 

3.  Early  plans  for  the  invasion  of  Europe  from  England:  Sledgehammer  ( 1 942) 
and  Roundup  ( 1 943)  (Chs.  I— III). 

4.  The  Anglo-American  debate  over  a  cross-Channel  attack  (Chs.  I,  III,  V). 

5.  General  Morgan’s  COSSAC  and  the  evolution  of  the  Overlord  plan 
(Ch.  II). 

6.  The  conversion  of  Overlord  into  a  dated  plan  of  operations  (Ch.  V;  for  a 
digest  of  the  Overlord  plan,  see  App.  A:  for  the  Supreme  Commander’s  directive, 
see  App.  B). 

7.  The  contribution  of  enemy  weakness  to  Allied  success  (Chs.  IV,  VII,  X). 

8.  German  command  organization  in  the  West  (Ch.  IV). 

9.  Hitler  and  the  German  defense  against  the  invasion  of  Normandy  (see  Index: 
“Hitler”  and  Apps.  C  and  D). 

10.  D-day  on  sea  and  land  and  in  the  air  (Ch.  VIII). 

1 1 .  Securing  a  beachhead  and  lodgment  area  (Chs.  IX-X). 

Among  the  more  specific  topics  on  which  this  volume  throws  light  are  the 
following: 

12.  Debate  on  the  Anvil  plan  (Ch.  V). 

1 3.  Organized  cooperation  of  the  French  Resistance  with  the  Allies  (see  Index: 
“French  Resistance”). 

14.  Effect  on  strategy  of  shortage  in  a  critical  item  (landing  craft)  (see  Index: 
“Landing  craft”). 

15.  Effect  of  a  scattered  airdrop  (Ch.  VIII). 

16.  Assault  and  capture  of  a  fortified  city  (Cherbourg)  (Ch.  X). 

17.  Use  of  mass  air-bombing  and  artillery  in  this  assault  (Ch.  X). 

18.  Amphibious  assault  (see  Index:  “Amphibious  tactics”): 

a.  Naval  fire  support  (see  Index:  “Naval  fire  support”). 


THE  EUROPEAN  THEATER  OF  OPERATIONS 


75 


b.  Air-bombing  of  coastal  defenses  (plans,  pp.  194ff.;  execution,  Ch.  VIII). 

c.  Mass  use  of  airborne  forces  to  effect  “vertical  envelopment”  of  a 
beachhead  (see  Index:  “Airborne  assault”). 

d.  Weather  as  a  factor  in  planning  an  amphibious  assault  (see  Index: 
“Weather”). 

e.  Defense  at  the  beach  line  versus  use  of  mobile  reserves  in  meeting  an 
amphibious  assault  (Ch.  VII). 

f.  Use  and  effect  of  communications  bombing  in  isolating  the  battle  area 

(Chs.vm-x). 

g.  Capabilities  and  limitations  of  underwater  obstacles  in  defending  a  coast 
against  assault  (see  Index:  “Obstacles”). 

h.  Use  of  swimming  tanks  in  the  assault  of  a  defended  beach  (see  Index: 
“Tanks,  DD”). 


BREAKOUT  AND  PURSUIT.  By  Martin  Blumenson.  (1961,  1984,  1990;  748 
pages,  34  maps,  93  illustrations,  2  appendixes,  glossary,  bibliographical  note,  index, 
CMHPub7-5.) 

This  volume  follows  the  U.S.  First  and  Third  Armies  from  1  July  1944  in  the 

I  Allied  sweep  across  France  to  the  German  border,  where  The  Siegfried  Line 
Campaign  takes  up  the  story  of  the  First  Army  (on  1 1  September)  and  The  Lorraine 
Campaign  that  of  the  Third  Army  (on  1  September).  The  present  volume  includes  the 
battle  for  Brest,  which  ended  (on  18  September)  when  the  front  had  been  pushed 
across  France  and  beyond. 

By  1  July  the  Allies  had  consolidated  a  firm  beachhead  which  included  Cherbourg 
and  left  no  doubt  that  their  armies  had  come  to  stay.  The  theme  of  the  book  is  their 
subsequent  efforts  to  acquire  the  “lodgment  area”  projected  in  the  Overlord  plan 
(see  Cross-Channel  Attack)-,  the  effort  of  the  Germans  to  contain  them;  the  break¬ 
through  beginning  on  25  July;  its  conversion  into  the  breakout;  the  encirclement  of 
German  forces;  and  the  ensuing  sweep  across  France  that  outran  all  plans  and 
anticipations. 

After  an  explanation  of  Allied  and  German  situations  (Part  One),  the  battle 
narrative  opens  (Part  T  wo)  with  an  examination  of  the  hedgerow  fighting — the  costly 
and  disheartening  battles  in  the  compartmentalized  fields  of  Normandy  which, 
combined  with  rain,  mud,  and  inexperience,  deprived  the  Americans  of  the  advan¬ 
tages  of  numbers  and  mechanization  in  the  offensive  and  assisted  the  Germans  in  their 

I  stubborn  defense.  The  volume  gives  special  attention  to  the  methods  by  which  the 
Americans  overcame  the  unexpected  difficulties  that  beset  them  and  became  experi¬ 
enced  veterans. 

The  next  phase  of  the  narrative  (Part  Three)  includes  an  account  of  the  genesis  and 
evolution  of  General  Bradley’s  breakthrough  plan  (Cobra)  and  follows  in  detail  the 
measures  and  events  that  marked  its  conversion  into  a  triumphant  breakout  into 
Brittany  (described  in  Part  Four).  The  author  then  (in  Part  Five)  recounts  the  swiftly 
changing  plans  of  the  Allies  as  they  seized  the  opportunity  to  break  out  toward  the  east; 


76 


READER'S  GUIDE 


describes  Hitler ’  s  counterattack  toward  A vranches  and  its  defeat;  follows  (in  Parts  Six 
and  Seven)  the  development  of  operations  designed  to  encircle  the  Germans  at 
Argentan  and  Falaise;  and  shows  the  fast-moving  mobile  warfare  that  characterized 
the  drive  to  the  Seine,  the  liberation  of  Paris,  and  the  sweep  to  the  borders  of  Germany. 
A  tightening  logistical  tether  (see  Logistical  Support  of  the  Armies,  Volume  I)  and  the 
resuscitation  of  German  resistance  subsequently  brought  the  First  and  Third  Armies 
face  to  face  with  the  bitter  campaigning  described  in  The  Siegfried  Line  Campaign  and 
The  Lorraine  Campaign. 

The  battle  narrative  in  this  volume  is,  in  general,  pitched  at  corps  level,  but  the 
focus  of  attention  moves  up  and  down  the  chain  of  command  to  illuminate  decisions, 
both  Allied  and  German,  at  critical  moments  of  the  campaign.  The  action  is  carefully 
related  to  the  declared  or  postulated  intentions  of  the  responsible  commanders,  and 
success  or  failure  is  examined  with  reference  to  these  and  the  opposing  moves  of  the 
contestants.  As  in  Cross-Channel  Attack,  the  access  of  the  author  to  abundant  enemy 
sources  has  made  it  possible  for  him  to  represent  fully  the  strength,  intentions,  and 
tactics  of  the  enemy. 

Key  topics: 

1.  Multiple  crossings  of  a  defended  river  line  on  a  division  front  (Chs.  V, 
XXVIII). 

2.  Assault  of  a  fortified  city  (St.  Malo,  Ch.  XXI;  Brest,  Ch.  XXX). 

3.  Problems  of  coalition  warfare  on  tactical  levels  (Chs.  X,  XXV-XXVIII,  XXIX, 
XXXII). 

4.  Infantry: 

a.  In  compartmentalized  hedgerow  terrain  (Chs.  IV,  V,  VII,  VIII,  XIII,  XV). 

b.  In  mobile  warfare  (Chs.  XXVIII,  XXXI,  XXXII). 

c.  In  achieving  a  breakthrough  (Chs.  XII-XI V,  XXVII). 

d.  In  defense  (Chs.  VII,  VIII,  XIV,  XV). 

5.  Armor: 

a.  In  hedgerow  terrain  (Ch.  VI). 

b.  In  a  breakthrough  (Chs.  XIII-XVI,  XXVII-XXIX). 

c.  In  mobile  warfare  (Chs.  XIX,  XX,  XXVIII,  XXXI,  XXXII). 

d.  The  armored  division  as  an  independent  striking  force  (Chs.  XIX,  XX). 

6.  Air  support: 

a.  Use  of  heavy  (strategic)  bombers  in  direct  support  of  ground  troops  (Ch.  XII). 

b.  Tactical  air  support  of  ground  operations  (Chs.  XII,  XIII). 

7.  Artillery  in  special  situations: 

a.  Under  infantry  attack  (Chs.  XV,  XVI). 

b.  Against  fortress  defenses  (Chs.  XXI,  XXX). 

8.  Commitment  of  inexperienced  units  and  their  errors  (Chs.  IV,  V,  VI,  VIII,  XV). 

9.  Logistics  of  mobile  warfare  (Chs.  XXVIII,  XXX-XXXII). 

1 0.  Effect  of  weather  on  tactical  air  (see  Index:  “Weather,  effect  on  operations”). 

1 1 .  Traffic  congestion  and  its  effect  on  operations  (Chs.  XVI,  XIX,  XXVIII). 

12.  Personnel  replacements  (Ch.  XI). 

13.  Use  of  task  forces  for  unusual  missions  (Chs.  XXI,  XXX). 

14.  Artillery  support  (see  Index:  “Artillery  support”). 


THE  EUROPEAN  THEATER  OF  OPERATIONS 


77 


15.  German  command  problems  (Chs.  II,  XVII,  XXIV,  XXVII). 

THE  LORRAINE  CAMPAIGN.  By  Hugh  M.  Cole.  (1950,  1984;  657  pages,  50 
maps,  67  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  7-6.) 

This  volume  narrates  the  operations  of  the  U.S.  Third  Army,  commanded  by  Lt. 
Gen.  George  S.  Patton,  Jr.,  during  the  autumn  of  1944  when  that  army  was  weakened 
by  a  lengthy  pursuit  and  taut  supply  lines  and  faced  an  enemy  who  was  rapidly 
recovering  behind  strong  natural  and  artificial  barriers.  The  iron  hand  which  logistics 
sometimes  imposes  on  tactical  operations  is  in  evidence  throughout  the  narrative. 
Like  other  operational  volumes  dealing  with  the  European  theater,  The  Lorraine 
Campaign  is  organized  into  chapters  at  corps  level  and  written  primarily  at  division 
level.  When  action  at  a  lower  level  was  decisive  or  particularly  illustrative,  the 
narrative  descends  to  regiment,  battalion,  company,  and  sometimes  to  platoon  and 
squad  level.  Concurrent  operations  of  Allied  and  of  other  U.S.  armies  are  sketched 
in  as  necessary  for  a  complete  understanding  of  the  Third  Army’s  story.  Companion 
volumes  recount  in  full  the  concurrent  campaigns  of  the  First  and  Ninth  Armies  ( The 
Siegfried  Line  Campaign)  and  of  the  Seventh  Army  ( Riviera  to  the  Rhine).  The  story 
of  command  and  decision  at  levels  higher  than  army  headquarters  is  told  only  where 
it  had  a  direct  bearing  on  the  fighting  in  Lorraine,  as,  for  example.  General 
Eisenhower’s  decision  to  halt  the  Third  Army  at  the  Meuse  River  at  the  start  of 
September  while  he  concentrated  his  strained  resources  in  support  of  the  First  Army 
on  another  axis  of  advance  (Ch.  I). 

Despite  General  Patton ’s  long-lived  optimism  that  he  could  gain  the  Rhine  in  one 
quick  thrust,  this  volume  indicates  that  even  in  early  September  the  Germans  were 
amassing  strength  sufficient  to  delay  an  overextended  attacker  for  a  long  time  behind 
such  barriers  as  the  flooded  Moselle  River;  the  historic  forts  ringing  Metz,  capital  of 
Lorraine;  and  the  Maginot  and  Siegfried  Lines.  This  is  the  story  of  the  slow,  plodding 
operations  that  developed  in  the  forests  and  among  the  rolling  hills  of  Lorraine  from 
early  September  until  the  Third  Army  on  1 8  December  was  turned  north  to  assist  the 
First  Army  in  the  Ardennes. 

A  parallel  account  from  the  enemy  side  puts  the  American  operations  in  proper 
perspective.  The  volume  contains  also  an  analytical  description  of  the  decisions  of 
commanders  at  army,  corps,  and  division  levels  that  provided  the  framework  of  the 
tactical  operations.  Historical  perspective  is  enhanced  by  frequent  reference  to  earlier 
campaigning  over  this  same  terrain  in  1870,  1914-18,  and  1940. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Multiple  crossings  of  a  defended  river  line  on  an  army  front  (Chs.  II,  III,  VIII). 

2.  Assault  of  a  fortified  city  (Metz)  (Chs.  Ill,  VI,  VIII,  IX). 

3.  Assaults  of  strongly  fortified  lines — Maginot  (Ch.  X)  and  Siegfried  (Ch.  XIII ) — 
in  the  latter  case  a  line  behind  a  river. 

4.  Tank  fighting: 

a.  Against  a  counterattack  in  force  (Ch.  V). 

b.  In  an  army  offensive  (Chs.  VIII,  X). 

c.  In  the  assault  of  a  fortified  line  (Ch.  XII). 


78 


READER'S  GUIDE 


(Note:  b.  and  c.  are  examples  of  armor  operating  under  adverse  conditions  of  weather 
and  soil  trafficability.) 

5.  Street  fighting  (Chs.  VIII,  IX). 

6.  Air  support  of  ground  operations  (see  Index:  “Air  support”). 

7.  German  armor  versus  American  (Ch.  XIV ;  for  German  armor,  see  also  “Panzer 
formations”  in  Index  under  “German  units”). 

8.  Armored  task  forces  in  limited  objective  attacks  (see  especially  Ch.  VII). 

9.  Artillery  support  (see  Index:  “Artillery”). 

10.  Engineer  (see  Index:  “Bridges;  Engineer”)  and  smoke  generator  units  in 
support  of  river  crossings.  (For  a  more  detailed  account  of  the  Moselle  crossing  at 
Amaville,  see  Three  Battles:  Arnaville,  Altuzzo,  and  Schmidt.) 

1 1 .  Operations  in  adverse  conditions  of  weather  and  soil  (mud,  cold,  rain,  and 
floods)  (see  Index:  “Floods;  Mud;  Terrain;  Weather”). 

12.  Forest  fighting  (see  Index:  “Woods  fighting”). 

13.  Command  problems:  German  (see  Index:  ‘‘OB  WEST;  Oberkommando  der 
Wehrmacht  [OKW]”). 

THE  SIEGFRIED  LINE  CAMPAIGN.  By  Charles  B.  MacDonald.  (1963, 1984, 
1990;  670  pages,  19  maps,  81  illustrations,  4  appendixes,  bibliographical  note, 
glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  7-7.) 

Optimism  ran  high  when  the  first  American  patrols  crossed  the  German  frontier 
on  1 1  September  1944.  With  the  enemy  defeated  in  Normandy  and  pursued  across 
northern  France,  Belgium,  and  Luxembourg,  who  could  doubt  that  the  war  in  Europe 
would  soon  be  over?  As  events  were  to  prove,  and  as  this  volume  relates,  buoyant 
spirits  were  premature.  Aided  by  the  concrete  of  the  Siegfried  Line  (the  so-called 
West  Wall)  and  the  forbidding  terrain  along  the  frontier,  the  Germans  were  able  to 
stabilize  the  front  against  an  Allied  force  weakened  by  the  excesses  of  a  long  pursuit. 

The  Siegfried  Line  Campaign  is  primarily  a  history  of  tactical  operations  in 
northwestern  Europe  from  early  September  to  mid-December  1 944.  It  covers  in  detail 
the  campaigns  of  the  U.S.  First  and  Ninth  Armies  and  the  First  Allied  Airborne  Army 
and  in  sketchy  outline  the  concurrent  operations  of  the  Second  British  and  First 
Canadian  Armies.  Organized  into  chapters  at  the  corps  level,  the  story  is  told 
primarily  at  division  level  with  numerous  descents  to  regiment  and  battalion  and  even 
at  times  to  lower  units.  Logistics  and  high-level  planning  (for  example,  the 
controversy  over  single  thrust  versus  broad  front  strategy)  are  treated  where  they 
affected  the  campaign.  Discussion  of  staff  operations  at  army  or  corps  level  is  limited 
to  the  development  of  tactical  plans  and  operations. 

Although  the  First  Army’s  V  and  VII  Corps  both  penetrated  the  Siegfried  Line 
in  September,  ragtail  German  formations  were  able  to  blunt  these  spearheads.  They 
did  the  same  when  the  Allies  sought  to  outflank  the  West  Wall  by  crossing  three  major 
water  barriers.  The  last  of  these,  an  assault  on  the  lower  Rhine,  was  a  major  coalition 
operation  that  combined  the  First  Allied  Airborne  Army  attack  in  southeastern 
Netherlands  (Operation  Market)  with  a  ground  attack  (Operation  Garden)  by 


THE  EUROPEAN  THEATER  OF  OPERATIONS 


79 


the  Second  British  Army.  From  this  point  (late  September)  stiff  in-fighting 
developed.  Into  November  the  Allies  in  Belgium,  Germany,  and  the  Netherlands 
conducted  a  series  of  small-scale  operations  to  tidy  the  front  in  preparation  for  another 
major  attempt  to  break  through  to  the  Rhine  River  and  encircle  the  Ruhr  industrial 
area.  They  focused  on  several  specific  missions:  capture  of  Aachen,  which  sits  astride 
the  invasion  route  to  the  Ruhr;  a  drive  on  the  Huertgen  Forest  southeast  of  Aachen  to 
protect  the  forces  before  Aachen  and  to  capture  the  dams  on  the  upper  Roer  threatened 
by  the  retreating  Germans;  and  reduction  of  the  German  bridgehead  west  of  the  Maas 
River  in  southeastern  Netherlands.  The  Allies  also  sought  to  clear  the  seaward 
approaches  to  Antwerp,  whose  port  remained  the  key  to  the  logistical  problems  that 
had  plagued  them  since  the  Normandy  breakout. 

By  mid-November  Allied  commanders  could  report  considerable  success  in  these 
missions.  Greater  strength  had  been  added  with  the  introduction  of  the  Ninth  Army 
into  the  line  between  the  First  Army  and  the  British.  The  logistical  situation  was 
gradually  improving,  and  in  conjunction  with  the  Third  Army  to  the  south,  the  First 
and  Ninth  Armies  were  preparing  a  new  offensive  designed  to  carry  all  three  to  the 
Rhine. 

Operation  Queen  was  launched  on  1 6  November,  but  by  taking  advantage  of  their 
strong  artillery  reserves,  the  inclement  weather,  and  rough  terrain,  the  Germans 
slowed  the  advance  significantly.  By  mid-December  some  Allied  troops  had  not 
traversed  the  seven  miles  to  the  intermediate  objective  of  the  Roer  River,  and  the  threat 
of  the  Roer  Dams  still  existed.  Coincidentally,  the  Germans  used  the  time  to  mobilize 
behind  the  front  an  army  group  that  would  launch  a  counteroffensive  in  the  Ardennes, 
bringing  a  halt  to  the  Siegfried  Line  campaign. 

Key  topics: 

1.  Attack  and  defense  of  a  fortified  line  (Chs.  Ill,  IV,  VIII). 

2.  Forest,  city,  and  village  fighting  (Chs.  IV,  XIII,  XIV,  XV). 

3.  American  units  under  foreign  command  (Ch.  IX). 

4.  Armor  operations  (Chs.  XI,  XXII). 

5.  Airborne  operations  (Chs.  VI,  VII,  VIII). 

6.  Air  support  of  ground  troops  (Chs.  IX,  XII,  XVII,  XVIII,  XIX). 

7.  Success  and  failure  in  intelligence  estimates  (Chs.  XI,  XXIII). 

8.  Fighting  in  inclement  weather  (Chs.  II,  III,  VIII,  XVII). 

9.  Comparison  of  American  and  German  tanks  (Ch.  III). 

10.  Use  of  smoke,  searchlights,  flail  and  flamethrowing  tanks,  M-29  cargo 
carriers,  tank  track,  and  connectors  (grousers)  (Chs.  XXIV,  XXVI). 


THE  ARDENNES:  BATTLE  OF  THE  BULGE.  By  HughM. Cole.  (1965, 1983; 
720  pages,  14  maps,  93  illustrations,  2  appendixes,  bibliographical  note,  glossary, 
index,  CMH  Pub  7-8.) 

This  volume  deals  with  the  great  German  offensive  in  the  Ardennes  and 
Schnee  Eiffel  during  December  1944;  the  armored  drive  to  isolate  the  Anglo-Saxon 
Allies  by  the  seizure  of  Antwerp;  and  the  defensive  battles  fought  by  units  of  the  U.S. 


80 


READER'S  GUIDE 


First,  Third,  and  Ninth  Annies  reinforced  by  troops  from  the  British  2 1  Army  Group. 
The  Ardennes:  Battle  of  the  Bulge  opens  with  the  detailed  planning  and  preparations 
in  the  German  headquarters  (Chs.  I,  II,  IV)  and  follows  the  development  of  the 
campaign  from  the  surprise  attack  initiated  on  1 6  December  to  the  point  where,  in  the 
first  days  of  January  1 945,  the  Allies  regained  the  initiative  and  resumed  the  offensive 
to  cross  the  Rhine.  The  discussion  parallels  that  given  in  the  latter  sections  of  Riviera 
to  the  Rhine,  covering  the  southern  Allied  Army  Group,  and  sets  the  scene  for  The  Last 
Offensive. 

The  Ardennes ,  as  in  other  volumes  of  this  subseries,  is  structured  on  the  division 
as  the  chief  tactical  and  administrative  unit.  However,  in  the  early  hours  and  first  days 
the  battle  mandates  that  the  story  be  told  at  platoon  and  company  level  with  cross 
reference  to  battalions,  regimental  combat  teams,  and  armored  combat  commands. 
Command  and  control  exercised  by  the  army  corps  generally  appears  in  the  allocation 
of  reserves  rather  than  in  tactical  direction  of  the  battle.  Higher  command  efforts 
come  into  the  narrative  in  a  few  specific  instances,  such  as  the  gross  failure  of  Allied 
intelligence;  the  geographic  division  of  command  between  Montgomery  and  Bradley; 
the  decisions  to  hold  the  American  linch-pins  on  the  Elsenbom  ridge,  St.  Vith,  and 
Bastogne,  at  the  shoulders  of  the  German  salient;  and  the  initial  large-scale  counter¬ 
attack  mounted  by  the  Third  Army.  (The  subject  of  command  is  given  close  analysis 
in  The  Supreme  Command.) 

The  history  of  German  command  and  troop  operations  is  told  in  considerable 
detail.  At  the  close  of  World  War  II,  German  officers  were  brought  together  so  as  to 
re-create  the  commands  and  general  staffs  of  the  major  units  taking  part  in  the 
Ardennes  campaign.  As  a  result  of  this  exercise  in  collective  memory  The  Ardennes 
has  an  unmatched  wealth  of  precise  and  parallel  information  on  “the  other  side  of  the 
hill.”  Much  attention  is  also  given  to  the  role  played  by  the  Allied  air  forces — 
particularly  the  tactical  air  commands — and  to  the  effect  of  weather  on  air-ground 
cooperation  and  on  German  logistics. 

The  story  begins  with  the  irruption  of  enemy  assault  units  in  force  against  the 
green  99th  and  1 06th  Infantry  Divisions  and  throughout  the  breadth  of  the  thinly  held 
VIII  Corps  front.  The  German  breakthrough  in  the  Schnee  Eiffel  is  given  detailed 
attention  (Ch.  VII).  There  follows  the  American  attempt  to  narrow  the  rapidly 
evolving  enemy  salient  by  hard  fighting  at  the  shoulders  of  the  bulge  and  by  piecemeal 
tactical  reinforcement  at  these  critical  points.  The  exploitation  phase  of  the  German 
offensive  sees  early  armored  successes  interspersed  with  delays  and  halts  inflicted  by 
isolated  and  lone  American  combined  arms  detachments  plus  the  vagaries  of  weather 
and  terrain.  This  combination  of  adverse  weather  and  difficult  terrain  is  analyzed  as 
it  influenced  German  armored  operations  and  conditioned  the  assault  or  the  defense 
at  barrier  lines,  roadblocks,  and  timbered  patches  (Chs.  VI,  XIV).  The  tactics  of 
perimeter  defense  are  shown  in  the  record  of  battles  at  Bastogne  (Ch.  XIX)  and  those 
in  the  ring  around  St.  Vith  (Chs.  XII,  XVII). 

This  volume  concludes  with  the  final  desperate  effort  of  German  armor  to  reach 
and  cross  the  Meuse  River;  with  the  stiffening  American  defense  at  the  leading 
edge  of  the  salient,  coupled  with  the  German  failure  to  widen  it  at  the  shoulders;  with 
the  commencement  of  the  enemy  withdrawal;  and  with  the  counterattacks  of  the  Third 


THE  EUROPEAN  THEATER  OF  OPERATIONS 


81 


and  First  Armies.  The  final  episodes  of  the  Ardennes  battle  are  recounted  in  The  Last 
Offensive. 

Throughout  this  volume  the  strictures  imposed  on  German  maneuver  by  logistical 
failures  are  evident  as  are  the  superior  American  capability  to  reinforce  and  resupply 
the  defense.  (See  also  Logistical  Support  of  the  Armies ,  Volume  IT).  Nonetheless,  the 
German  campaign  to  keep  rail  and  road  transport  functioning,  here  described  in  detail 
(Ch.  XXV),  merits  close  study. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Elementary  tactics  as  shown  in  the  many  episodes  of  “the  starkness  of  small 
unit  combat”  (Foreword;  Chs.  VI,  VII,  VIII,  IX). 

2.  Mobile  operations  under  adverse  conditions  of  weather,  terrain,  and  short 
daylight  hours  (see  Index:  “Mud;  Terrain”;  Ch.  XXV). 

3.  Organization,  tactics,  control,  and  communications  in  delaying  actions  (see 
Index;  “Mud;  Tactical  control;  Communications,  problems”). 

4.  Failure  of  Allied  intelligence  (Ch.  IV). 

5.  Ad  hoc  air  resupply  (see  Index:  “Air  supply”). 

6.  The  employment  of  combat  engineers  (see  Index:  “Bridges;  Bridging 
operations;  Engineers;  Barrier  lines;  Obstacles”;  Ch.  XIV). 

7.  Tactical  surprise  by  maneuver,  through  operations  at  night  and  in  the  fog,  and 
by  the  use  of  smoke  and  deceptive  lighting  (see  Index:  “Surprise,  tactical”). 

8.  Examples  of  a  double  envelopment  (Ch.  VII). 

9.  Detailed  description  of  the  employment  of  “the  combined  arms”  (see  Index: 
“Task  Forces;  Teams”). 

10.  Tanks;  antitank  combat  (see  Index:  “Tanks;  Armor;  Mechanized  forces”). 

1 1.  Tactical  air  support  (see  Index:  “Aircraft,  fighter-bombers”;  Ch.  XXV). 


RIVIERA  TO  THE  RHINE.  By  Jeffrey  J.  Clarke  and  Robert  Ross  Smith.  (1992; 
approx.  620  pages,  1  table,  35  maps,  77  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  index, 
CMH  Pub  7-10.) 

On  1 5  August  1 944,  the  Allies  finally  launched  Operation  Anvil,  code  name  for 
the  amphibious  assault  against  southern  France.  Long  in  the  planning  as  an  adjunct 
to  the  main  effort  in  Normandy,  the  effort  represented  a  victory  for  U.S.  strategists 
seeking  to  focus  Allied  military  strength  against  western  Germany.  The  successful 
assault  was  rapidly  followed  up  by  the  seizure  of  the  important  French  Mediterranean 
ports  of  Marseille  and  Toulon  and  a  concerted  drive  north  up  the  Rhone  River  valley 
to  Lyon.  There  the  Franco- American  Riviera  Force,  consisting  of  the  U.S.  Seventh 
and  the  French  First  Armies,  was  combined  into  the  Sixth  Army  Group  under  Lt.  Gen. 
Jacob  Devers  as  the  southern  element  of  General  Eisenhower’s  northern  European 
command. 

From  September  to  November  1 944  the  Sixth  Army  Group  struggled  east  through 
the  Vosges  mountains  and  through  the  Saveme  and  Belfort  gaps  to  the  north  and 
south,  respectively.  Inclement  weather,  rugged  terrain,  and  stiffening  defense  by  the 
German  Nineteenth  Army  slowed  the  army  group’s  progress  toward  the  German 


82 


READER’S  GUIDE 


border  to  a  crawl.  During  the  well-planned  November  offensive,  however,  Devers’ 
forces  surged  through  the  German  lines,  rapidly  advancing  to  the  Rhine  and 
destroying  the  cohesiveness  of  the  defenders  in  the  process.  But  rather  than  move 
directly  into  Germany,  Eisenhower  ordered  the  bulk  of  the  Seventh  Army  to  strike 
northward  in  support  of  the  U.S.  Third  Army’s  less  successful  offensive  in  Lorraine. 
In  the  process  the  Army  group  lost  its  momentum,  allowing  the  Germans  to  retain  a 
foothold  in  the  Vosges  around  the  city  of  Colmar  and  in  the  north  to  conduct  a  more 
orderly  withdrawal  to  the  German  border. 

In  December  the  German  Ardennes  offensive  forced  the  Sixth  Army  Group  to  halt 
all  offensive  operations  and  extend  its  front  northward.  As  a  result,  the  German  High 
Command  launched  Operation  NORDWIND  in  January  1945,  a  major  armor  and 
infantry  offensive  against  the  extended  Seventh  Army.  A  stubborn  but  flexible 
defense  finally  wore  the  German  forces  thin,  but  both  sides  suffered  heavily  from  the 
bitterly  cold  weather.  In  February,  Devers’  forces  resumed  the  offensive,  eliminating 
the  Colmar  Pocket  and  the  Nineteenth  Army  and  setting  the  stage  for  the  final  drive 
into  Germany. 

This  volume  links  the  U.S.  Army’s  Mediterranean  and  northern  European 
operational  series  together  and  provides  an  important  counterpoint  for  those  works 
dealing  with  Eisenhower’s  two  more  well-known  army  groups  commanded  by  Field 
Marshal  Sir  Bernard  Montgomery  and  Lt.  Gen.  Omar  Bradley.  The  opening  section 
(Chs.  I— XI)  treats  the  Southern  France  Campaign  as  part  of  the  Mediterranean  Theater 
of  Operations;  a  middle  section  (Chs.  XII-XXIV)  covers  the  fighting  in  the  Vosges; 
and  the  final  section  (Chs.  XXV  -XXX)  takes  up  the  battle  of  Alsace.  Joint  operations 
are  highlighted  (Chs.  II— VII)  in  the  treatment  of  Anvil,  perhaps  the  most  successful 
amphibious  operation  during  the  war,  while  the  problems  of  combined  (multina¬ 
tional)  command  are  discussed  throughout.  A  full  account  of  German  plans, 
organization,  and  actions  is  included  for  perspective,  and  the  operations  of  the  First 
French  Army,  a  major  component  of  the  American  army  group,  are  also  treated  in 
detail. 

Key  topics: 

1.  Combined  and  joint  politico-military  war  planning  (Chs.  I,  II,  XII. 
XXVII). 

2.  Partisan  guerrillas  (Chs.  Ill,  VI). 

3.  Amphibious  loading  for  logistics  (Ch.  III). 

4.  Air-sea-land  interdiction  operations  (Chs.  V,  VI). 

5.  Armored  warfare  (Chs.  IX,  XXI,  XXIII,  XXVIII,  XXIX). 

6.  Civil  affairs  (Ch.  XI). 

7.  Close  air  support  (Ch.  XI). 

8.  River  crossings  (Chs.  XIII,  XXII). 

9.  Morale  and  discipline  (Ch.  XXX). 

10.  Special  and  airborne  operations  (Chs.  Ill,  VI). 

1 1.  Winter  and  mountain  fighting  (Chs.  XV,  XXIX). 

1 2.  Intelligence  derived  from  communications  intercepts  and  human  sources — 
Ultra  and  the  OSS  (Ch.  V). 


THE  EUROPEAN  THEATER  OF  OPERATIONS 


83 


THE  LAST  OFFENSIVE.  By  Charles  B.  MacDonald.  (1973,  1984,  1990;  532 
pages,  27  maps,  92  illustrations,  2  appendixes,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index, 
CMHPub7-9.) 

The  Last  Offensive  is  the  final  volume  of  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War 
II  subseries  The  European  Theater  of  Operations.  It  recounts  the  closing  battles  in 
which  the  American  forces  cross  the  Rhine  River — historic  boundary  of  German 
power — and,  with  the  Western  Allies,  defeat  and  destroy  Hitler’s  armies  deployed  on 
the  Western  Front.  The  story  in  these  final  chapters  follows  those  told  in  The 
Ardennes:  Battle  of  the  Bulge  and  in  Riviera  to  the  Rhine',  the  time  frame  extends  from 
the  first  days  of  January  1945  to  V-E  Day  (8  May). 

The  massive  force  under  Eisenhower’s  command  had  attained  the  battle  experi¬ 
ence  of  a  professional  army;  it  was  superior  to  the  Wehrmacht  both  in  manpower  and 
materiel.  On  V-E  Day  Eisenhower  would  have  under  his  command  more  than  four 
and  a  half  million  troops:  91  divisions  (61  of  which  were  American),  6  tactical  air 
commands,  and  2  strategic  air  forces.  In  this  volume  appears  a  reckoning  of  the  total 
Allied  effort  in  the  West  and  the  human  cost  accumulated  between  D-day  and  V-E 
Day.  In  these  months  a  total  of  5,412,219  Allied  troops  had  entered  the  European 
Theater  of  Operations,  along  with  970,044  vehicles  and  1 8,292,3 1 0  tons  of  supplies. 
Allied  casualties  for  the  period  of  combat  are  estimated  at  a  figure  of  766,294. 
American  losses  are  carried  as  586,628,  of  which  1 35,576  are  listed  as  dead  (Ch.  XX). 

The  Last  Offensive  is  a  dramatic  piece  of  military  history  and  offers  a  varied  array 
of  ground  force  operations.  In  these  final  months  the  U.S.  First,  Third,  Seventh,  and 
Ninth  Armies,  reinforced  by  British  and  Canadian  armies  on  the  northern  flank  and 
a  French  army  on  the  southern  wing,  erased  the  two  German  salients  west  of  the  Rhine 
(in  the  Ardennes  and  around  Colmar)  and  drove  to  the  long-time  Allied  objective,  the 
Rhine.  The  powerful  assaults  to  force  the  Rhine  crossings  were  accompanied  by  a 
prime  example  of  “luck”  in  battle,  the  seizure  of  the  Remagen  bridge,  and  abetted  by 
a  spectacular  air-drop  assault  Operation  Varsity — the  last  of  the  war  (Ch.  XIV). 
Beyond  the  Rhine  there  follows  a  series  of  the  most  massive  sweeps  and  wide  turning 
movements  in  World  W ar  II,  engulfing  and  destroying  the  German  armies  in  the  Ruhr 
Pocket  (Ch.  XVI).  The  end  of  the  Wehrmacht  comes  when  the  Americans  join  the 
Soviets  at  the  Elbe  (Ch.  XVII)  while  the  Seventh  U.S.  Army  races  to  and  crosses  the 
Danube  (Ch.  XVIII). 

The  gigantic  size  of  these  operations  requires  that  this  volume  be  structured  with 
emphasis  on  the  army  but  with  close  scrutiny  of  important  engagements  by  divisional 
organizations.  The  detailed  story  of  the  Allied  command  in  this  period  will  be  found 
in  The  Supreme  Command.  Nonetheless,  The  Last  Offensive  analyzes  the  controversy 
between  Eisenhower  and  Montgomery  over  the  competing  strategies  based  on  an 
advance  all  along  the  front  versus  a  narrow,  deep,  and  powerful  thrust  on  a  very 
constricted  front.  Here  it  is  shown  that  the  Allied  front  expands  from  450  miles  in 
January  to  twice  that  width  at  V-E  Day.  Also,  explanation  is  given  herein  regarding 
Eisenhower’s  decision  to  halt  the  advance  of  the  Western  Allies  on  the  Leipzig  axis, 
short  of  Berlin.  Despite  the  great  Allied  superiority  on  the  ground  and  in  the  air,  the 
war  weary  and  weakened  German  troops  fought  stubbornly  in  these  last  battles;  The 


84 


READER’S  GUIDE 


Last  Offensive  gives  credit  to  these  veteran  troops  fighting  in  a  hopeless  and 
meaningless  cause. 

Key  topics: 

1.  The  “grand  tactics”  of  wide  encircling  sweeps  and  deep  penetrations  (see 
Index:  “Armor,  exploitation”). 

2.  Tactical  and  technical  problems  in  the  crossing  of  defended  rivers  and  the 
consolidation  of  bridgeheads  (see  Index:  “Rhine;  Roer;  Moselle”;  Ch.  XI). 

3.  Effect  of  varied  combinations  of  terrain  and  weather  on  mechanical  operations 
(see  Index:  “Tanks;  Weather”). 

4.  Management  of  logistics  in  support  of  rapid  movement  by  large  forces  (see  also 
Logistical  Support  of  the  Armies,  Volume  II). 

5.  Organization  for  combat  at  the  division  level  during  operations  of  deep 
penetration  and  rapid  exploitation  (see  Index:  “Divisions  by  number"). 

6.  Tactics  and  techniques  of  bridging  and  assault  craft  operations  at  large  water 
barriers  (see  Index:  “LVTs;  DUKWs;  Boats,  assault;  Bridges;  Engineers,  bridging 
operations”). 

7.  Tactical  use  of  smoke,  fog,  and  weather  (see  Index:  “Smoke;  Weather”). 

8.  Airborne  transport  and  vertical  encirclement  by  air  (Ch.  XIV). 

9.  Air  interdiction  in  support  of  Allied  ground  operations  (Ch.  XIV). 


LOGISTICAL  SUPPORT  OF  THE  ARMIES,  VOLUME  I:  MAY  1941-SEP- 
TEMBER 1944.  By  Roland  G .  Ruppenthal .  (1953, 1985, 1989;  616pages,  1 1  tables, 
6  charts,  18  maps,  58  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  7-2.) 

This  is  the  history  of  the  logistical  operations  in  the  European  Theater  of 
Operations  in  support  of  the  U.S.  Army  forces  in  that  theater  from  1941  to  mid- 
September  1 944.  The  operations  described  and  analyzed  were  under  the  direction  of 
the  headquarters  of  the  combined  command  known  as  ETOUSA  Communications 
Zone.  But  the  focus  throughout  is  on  the  relation  of  logistics  to  combat  and  the 
influence  of  adequate  or  inadequate  logistical  support  on  the  planning  and  conduct  of 
tactical  operations  by  the  field  armies.  Two  major  problems  of  supply  that  had 
important  effects  on  these  operations  are  treated  in  detail:  the  shortage  of  gasoline  in 
the  period  of  pursuit  and  the  developing  shortage  of  field  artillery  ammunition,  which 
became  critical  in  the  fall  of  1944. 

Beginning  with  the  arrival  of  the  first  small  group  of  U.S.  Army  “Special 
Observers”  in  May  1941,  the  narrative  tells  the  story  of  the  successive  predecessor 
commands  in  the  United  Kingdom  and  the  activation  of  the  European  theater  (Ch.  I). 
It  covers  in  turn  the  buildup  of  forces  and  logistical  planning  in  preparation  for  the 
cross-Channel  invasion  (Chs.  II— VII)  and  then  logistical  operations  on  the  Continent 
through  the  end  of  the  phase  of  rapid  pursuit  in  September  (Chs.  X-XIV). 

The  major  theme  is  logistical  difficulties,  first  those  of  building  up  U.S.  forces  for 
the  invasion  of  France,  then  of  supporting  them  in  combat.  For  the  period  of 
continental  operations  emphasis  centers  largely  on  problems  of  movement:  cross- 
Channel  shipping,  the  development  of  beach  and  port  discharge  facilities,  and  long- 


THE  EUROPEAN  THEATER  OF  OPERATIONS 


85 


distance  transportation  by  rail  and  truck,  including  the  famed  Red  Ball  Express  (Ch. 
XIV). 

Full  attention  is  given  to  theater  organization  and  command,  particularly  to  the 
relation  of  logistics  to  other  functions,  and  to  the  influence  of  personalities  on  the 
evolution  of  command  and  on  administrative  effectiveness  (Chs.  I,  II,  III,  V,  and  XI). 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Logistical  (Overlord)  planning  for  large-scale  offensive  operations  (Chs.  IV, 
VII). 

2.  Theater  command  and  territorial  organization,  particularly  where  an  Allied 
command  is  superimposed  on  a  national  command  and  a  single  commander  holds 
positions  in  both  (Chs.  I— III,  V,  XI). 

3.  The  influence  of  logistical  considerations  on  tactical  planning  and  decisions 
(Ch.  XII). 

4.  Manpower  problems,  particularly  with  respect  to  economical  use  of  personnel, 
and  the  variance  of  casualty  experience  of  the  first  months  from  estimated  replace¬ 
ment  needs  (Ch.  XI). 

5 .  The  logistics  of  rapid  movement  and  its  effects  on  future  capabilities  (Chs.  XII- 
XIV). 

6.  Competition  between  global  and  theater  strategy  and  priorities  in  the  buildup 
of  supplies  and  forces  (Chs.  II,  III,  VI). 

7.  Supply  over  beaches  in  support  of  a  large  invasion  force,  including  the  use  of 
artificial  ports  (Chs.  VII,  X,  XI). 

8.  The  influence  of  personalities  in  the  development  of  theater  organization  and 
in  the  relationship  of  theater  commands  to  each  other  (see  especially  Ch.  XI). 

9.  The  results  of  inadequate  planning  and  staff  coordination  in  meeting  urgent 
calls  for  logistical  support  (Ch.  XIII). 

10.  The  development  of  a  theater  troop  basis  (Ch.  III). 

1 1 .  Early  struggles  attending  the  establishment  of  a  U.S.  Army  command  in  the 
United  Kingdom  (Ch.  I). 

12.  Relations  with  an  ally  which  serves  as  “host”  nation  and  on  which  U.S.  forces 
must  depend  heavily  for  locally  procured  services  and  supplies  (Chs.  II,  III,  VI). 

1 3 .  Effect  of  the  North  African  invasion  on  the  preparation  of  a  force  in  the  United 
Kingdom  for  the  cross-Channel  invasion  (Ch.  II). 

14.  Training  and  rehearsing  for  the  cross-Channel  attack  (Ch.  VIII). 

LOGISTICAL  SUPPORT  OF  THE  ARMIES,  VOLUME  II:  SEPTEMBER 
1944-MAY  1945.  By  Roland  G.  Ruppenthal.  (1959, 1983;  540  pages,  14  tables,  11 
maps,  65  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  7-3.) 

This  volume  moves  from  mid-September  1944  to  the  end  of  hostilities  in  May 
1945  along  the  same  general  lines  as  Volume  I  described  above.  As  in  that  volume 
the  focus  is  on  the  influence  of  adequate  or  inadequate  logistical  support  on  the 
planning  and  conduct  of  tactical  operations  by  the  field  armies,  in  short,  the  relation 
of  logistics  to  combat.  Considerable  space  is  given  to  theater  organization  and  command 
because  of  the  influence  that  these  exerted  on  effective  administration  and  support. 


86 


READER'S  GUIDE 


The  main  divisions  of  the  volume  correspond  to  the  two  broad  phases  of  tactical 
operations  in  the  period  covered:  the  period  of  relatively  static  warfare  from  mid- 
September  1944  to  early  February  1945  (Chs.  I— XII)  and  the  period  of  offensives 
leading  to  the  surrender  of  Germany  in  May  1 945  (Chs.  XIII-XVIII).  The  main  topics 
examined  within  each  period  are  organization  and  command  (Chs.  II,  XII,  XIII,  XIX); 
port  discharge  (Chs.  Ill,  IV,  XIV);  transportation  (Chs.  V,  VI,  XIV,  XV);  supply  (Chs. 
VII,  IX,  XVI);  and  manpower  (Chs.  XI,  XVII). 

The  reader  will  find  (in  Ch.  I)  an  assessment  of  the  logistical  basis  of  General 
Eisenhower’s  decision  in  September  1 944  against  concentration  of  his  resources  on 
a  single  thrust  to  the  Rhine.  In  Chapter  XII  the  author  surveys,  in  the  light  of  the 
Somervell-Lutes  “tour  of  inspection”  in  December  1 944-January  1 945,  the  structure 
of  theater  administration  and  supply  as  tested  by  the  logistical  problems  encountered 
between  D-day  and  the  Ardennes  offensive  of  mid-December.  The  book  concludes 
with  general  observations  on  the  logistical  experience  of  the  European  theater  (Ch. 
XIX). 

Logistical  Support  of  the  Armies  serves  not  only  as  an  integral  part  of  the  ETO 
subseries  of  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II,  but  also  as  a  complement  and 
capstone  to  the  portions  of  The  Technical  Services  subseries  that  deal  with  the 
wartime  activities  of  each  of  these  services  in  ETO. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Theater  command  and  organization,  with  particular  reference  to  the  relation¬ 
ship  of  tactical  and  administrative  commands  (Chs.  II,  XII,  XIII,  XIX). 

2.  The  influence  of  logistical  support  on  the  tempo  of  tactical  operations  (Chs. 
I,  XIX). 

3.  Manpower  problems,  particularly  with  respect  to  economy  in  the  use  of 
personnel  and  in  adjustment  to  unexpected  requirements  (Chs.  XI,  XVII). 

4.  Theater  relations  with  the  zone  of  interior  on  such  matters  as  organizational 
policy,  supply  requirements,  and  manpower  management  (Chs.  IV,  IX,  X,  XI,  XII, 
XIV,  XVII). 

5.  The  use  of  indigenous  resources,  both  human  and  material,  in  the  theater  of 
operations  (Ch.  XVIII). 

6.  The  response  to  emergencies  in  military  operations,  notably  with  respect  to  the 
logistic  problems  imposed  by  a  reverse  (Ch.  VI). 

7.  The  accommodation  to  unusual  demands,  notably  with  respect  to  transporta¬ 
tion,  as  in  the  case  of  the  final  offensive  (Ch.  XV). 

8.  The  control  and  allocation  of  supplies  in  critically  short  supply  (Chs.  IX,  XVI). 

9.  The  effect  of  changes  in  the  scheduled  buildup  of  forces  on  the  prospect  of 
logistic  support  (Ch.  X). 

10.  The  influence  of  personalities  on  the  working  of  a  theater  command  and 
organizational  structure  (Chs.  XII,  XIX). 


The  Middle  East  Theater 


The  Middle  East  Theater 


This  one-volume  subseries  tells  the  little-known  story  of  the  U.S.  Army ’s  mission 
of  assisting  the  British  in  their  efforts  to  deliver  supplies  to  the  Soviet  Union  through 
the  Persian  Corridor.  Initially,  the  primary  American  missions  involved  base 
construction  and  the  operation  of  assembly  points.  This  assignment  was  soon 
enlarged  to  include  the  transportation  of  materiel  to  its  new  ally  over  a  400-mile 
network  of  primitive  railroads  and  highways.  From  1 942  until  the  last  Soviet  soldier 
left  the  corridor  in  1 946,  Iran  was  the  silent  and  little-consulted  partner  in  its  destiny, 
as  Britain  and  the  United  States  struggled  to  keep  the  Soviet  Union  supplied  with  the 
military  essentials  of  war.  The  story  thus  chronicles  the  beginnings  of  an  involvement 
that  would  culminate  in  Operation  Desert  Storm  almost  fifty  years  later. 

THE  PERSIAN  CORRIDOR  AND  AID  TO  RUSSIA.  By  T.  H.  Vail  Motter. 
(1952,  1985,  1989;  545  pages,  15  tables,  12  charts,  5  maps,  3  illustrations,  glossary, 
index,  CMH  Pub  8-1 .) 

The  “Persian  Corridor”  was  one  of  two  major  theaters  of  operations  in  World 
War  II  whose  paramount  mission  was  supply.  (The  other  was  China-Burma-India.) 
The  Army ’s  mission  in  Iran  was  to  accelerate  the  delivery  of  lend-lease  supplies  to  the 
Soviet  Union.  The  operation  involved  delicate  and  complex  relations  with  three 
cooperating  powers;  Great  Britain,  the  USSR,  and  Iran.  These  relations  transcended 
logistics  and  military  administration  and  entered  the  diplomatic  sphere.  This  volume 
was  written  with  an  awareness  of  this  difficult  experiment  in  cooperation.  It  is 
therefore  a  book  for  the  statesman,  administrator,  and  historian,  as  well  as  for  officers 
responsible  for  future  planning  in  the  realm  of  logistics  and  strategy.  More 
specifically  the  book  is  indispensable  to  the  study  of  Anglo-American  aid  to  the  USSR 
after  the  breakdown  of  the  Murmansk  route  in  1 942  and  the  Anglo-American  invasion 
of  North  Africa. 

The  point  of  view  is  that  of  top  command  responsibility;  but  all  aspects  of 
planning  and  operations  from  Washington  and  London  to  the  “theater”  itself  are 
illustrated.  The  study  emphasizes  organization  and  administration  as  well  as 
achievement  in  terms  of  operational  results. 

In  addition  to  the  task  of  moving  supplies  through  Iran  to  the  Soviet  Union,  the 
Army  was  charged  with  responsibility  for  rendering  economic  and  military  aid  to  Iran. 
This  was  accomplished  by  advisory  missions  to  the  Iranian  Army  and  the  Iranian 
Gendarmerie  (Chs.  IX  and  XXI)  and  by  the  broadening  of  the  commander  ’  s  directive 
to  include  economic  assistance  to  Iran  (Ch.  XX).  The  volume  therefore  describes 
precedents  of  importance  to  readers  interested  in  the  development  of  the  policy  of 


90 


READER’S  GUIDE 


containment  and  military  assistance,  adopted  by  the  United  States  in  the  post-World 
War  II  era. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  The  use  of  civilian  contractors  versus  militarization  of  a  large  effort  of  supply 
in  wartime  (Chs.  II,  III,  V,  VI,  VII). 

2.  Procurement  of  materiel  and  manpower  (American  and  Iranian)  for  construc¬ 
tion  and  the  operation  of  theater  services  (Chs.  VI,  VII,  XII). 

3.  Changes  in  organization  required  by  changes  in  Allied  policy  and  theater 
mission  (Ch.  XI). 

4.  The  problem  of  overlapping  functions  and  the  rivalries  between  military  and 
civilian  (Army,  State  Department,  War  Shipping  Administration,  and  Lend-Lease 
Administration)  agencies  in  an  overseas  area  (Chs.  II,  IV,  XVI-XVIII). 

5.  Anglo-American  command  relationships  in  Iran  (Ch.  V). 

6.  Difficulties  of  cooperation  with  the  USSR  (Ch.  I). 

7.  Rivalries  between  Great  Britain  and  the  Soviet  Union  in  Iran  and  their 
continued  efforts  to  exclude  each  other  from  their  respective  zones  (Chs.  VII,  XIII). 

8.  Anglo-American-Soviet  negotiations  directed  toward  legalization  of  the  status 
of  American  troops  in  Iran  and  the  relation  of  these  to  the  Declaration  of  the  Three 
Powers  regarding  Iran,  1  December  1943  (Ch.  XX). 

9.  Anglo-American-Iranian  negotiations  regarding  payment  for  the  use  of  the 
Iranian  State  Railway  (Ch.  XVII). 

10.  Diplomatic  background  of  the  U.S.  advisory  missions  to  Iran  (Chs.  V,  XX). 

1 1.  Employment  of  native  labor  (see  Index:  “Native  employees”). 

12.  Security  arrangements  in  tribal  areas  (Chs.  II,  III,  V,  XI). 

13.  Planning  for  expansion  of  the  oil  pipeline  net  in  Iran  and  of  the  refinery 
capacity  at  Bahrein  and  Abadan  (Ch.  XV). 

14.  The  role  of  the  Army  Service  Forces  in  organizing  and  administering  a  supply 
theater  (Ch.  X). 

15.  Command  relations  between  the  Middle  East  Theater  and  the  administration 
of  the  Army’s  responsibilities  in  Iran  (see  Index:  “U.S.  Army  Forces  in  the  Middle 
East  (USAFIME);  U.S.  Military  Iranian  Mission;  U.S.  Military  North  African 
Mission;  Persian  Gulf  Command;  Maxwell,  Maj.  Gen.  Russell  L.;  Connolly,  Maj. 
Gen.  Donald  H.;  and  Shingler,  Brig.  Gen.  Don  G.”). 

16.  Shipping — the  conflict  between  global  and  local  interests  (see  Index:  “Ship¬ 
ping”). 

17.  The  tendency  to  overexpand  staff  and  organize  beyond  the  demands  of 
function  (Chs.  II,  III,  V,  XI). 


The  China-Burma-India 
Theater 


The  China-Burma-India 
Theater 


The  first  two  volumes  of  this  subseries  focus  on  Lt.  Gen.  Joseph  W.  Stilwell,  and 
the  third  treats  his  successor,  Lt.  Gen.  Albert  C.  Wedemeyer,  in  the  China-Burma- 
India  (CBI)  Theater.  All  three  works,  particularly  the  account  of  General  Wedemeyer’s 
diplomatic  measures,  focus  on  the  problems  of  a  major  military  assistance  effort. 
They  not  only  record  the  most  ambitious  U.S. -directed  aid  program  completed  during 
World  War  II,  but  also  are  of  general  interest  for  the  light  they  shed  on  the  background 
of  our  postwar  relations  with  China.  They  provide  a  basis  for  instructive  comparisons 
of  General  Wedemeyer’s  and  General  Stilwell’s  exercise  of  diplomatic  and  command 
functions,  and  of  their  programs  and  measures  for  the  reform  and  training  of  Chinese 
forces.  Finally,  these  volumes  describe  the  most  extensive  experiment  during  World 
War  II  in  the  sustained  supply  of  ground  forces  by  air. 


STILWELL’S  MISSION  TO  CHINA.  By  Charles  F.  Romanus  and  Riley 
Sunderland.  (1953,  1984;  441  pages,  6  tables,  8  charts,  7  maps,  19  illustrations, 
bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  9-1 .) 

This  volume  and  the  next  in  the  subseries  are  centered  on  the  performance  of  Lt. 
Gen.  Joseph  W.  Stilwell.  Stilwell  was  chief  of  staff  to  Chiang  Kai-shek,  in  Chiang’s 
capacity  of  commander  in  chief  of  China  considered  as  an  Allied  theater;  he 
administered  U.S.  lend-lease  aid  to  China;  and  he  commanded  the  CBI  Theater. 
Chiang  put  him  in  charge  of  his  force  (three  Chinese  armies)  in  Burma  during  the  ill- 
fated  campaign  of  1 942,  and  this  campaign,  insofar  as  it  involved  his  authority,  is 
therefore  described. 

The  War  Department’s  concept  of  aid  to  China  was  to  help  the  Chinese  to  help 
themselves,  by  military  advice,  technical  assistance,  air  support,  and  supplies  needed 
to  fill  the  gaps  in  the  Chinese  armory.  General  Stilwell  was  also  directed  to  reopen 
a  ground  line  of  communications  with  China.  The  present  volume  describes  General 
Stilwell  ’  s  efforts  to  effect  a  working  relationship  with  the  Generalissimo,  to  formulate 
a  program  acceptable  both  to  the  host  government  and  his  own  superiors,  and  to 
organize  a  logistical  base  for  American  assistance  and  air  operations.  It  presents,  in 
global  perspective,  the  difficulties  that  were  created  when  the  President,  overruling 
the  War  Department,  decided  that  China-based  and  air-supplied  air  power  was  a  better 
investment  of  available  American  resources  than  rebuilding  the  Chinese  Army. 

As  theater  commander  General  Stilwell  had  under  his  authority  a  far-flung 


94 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Services  of  Supply  (SOS),  the  Fourteenth  Air  Force  (Maj.  Gen.  Claire  L.  Chennault’s) 
in  China,  and  the  Tenth  Air  Force  in  India.  This  and  the  succeeding  volumes 
supplementthe  more  detailed  account  of  these  air  forces  to  be  found  in  The  Army  Air 
Forces  in  World  War  II.  They  are  here  presented  in  relation  to  the  missions  and 
activities  of  the  theater  and  General  Stil  well’s  other  responsibilities.  This  work  and 
its  successors  also  contain  a  general  account  of  the  extraordinary  problems  and 
activities  of  the  SOS,  plus  air  supply  over  the  famous  “Hump.”  Their  presentation 
here  can  be  supplemented  by  consulting  the  Air  Forces  history  cited  and  the  histories 
of  the  technical  services  in  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II.  The  present 
volume  covers  the  period  September  1939-September  1943.  (The  key  topics  are 
included  in  the  list  that  follows  the  description  of  the  third  volume  of  this  subseries.) 


STILWELL’S  COMMAND  PROBLEMS.  By  Charles  F.  Romanus  and  Riley 
Sunderland.  (1955,  1985;  518  pages,  8  charts,  5  tables,  21  maps,  45  illustrations, 
bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  9-2.) 

This  volume  continues  the  CBI  story  from  October  1943  through  General 
Stilwell’s  dramatic  recall  in  October  1 944.  In  1 943  the  President,  overruling  the  War 
Department,  decided  that  China-based  air  power,  supplied  by  air  over  “the  Hump,” 
was  a  better  investment  in  aid  to  China  than  General  Stil  well  ’  s  plans  for  strengthening, 
reforming,  and  employing  Chiang  Kai-shek’s  armies,  and  General  Stilwell  therefore 
decided  in  October  1 943  to  concentrate  his  efforts  on  the  India-Burma  scene.  But  his 
“command  problems,”  already  extraordinary,  were  further  complicated  by  his 
designation  as  Deputy  Commander,  under  Lord  Mountbatten,  of  the  Southeast  Asia 
Command,  and  by  his  responsibility  for  providing  logistical  support  to  the  B-29s 
based  in  China,  as  well  as  to  General  Chennault’s  Fourteenth  Air  Force.  During  this 
period  the  project  that  was  most  demanding  on  General  Stilwell’ s  attention  finally  got 
under  way — the  campaign  in  north  Burma  to  gain  control  of  Myitkyina,  to  clear  the 
route  for  the  Ledo  Road  and  a  pipeline  to  China,  and,  in  cooperation  with  the  British, 
to  unhinge  the  Japanese  defense  of  Burma. 

The  authors  sketch  the  strategic  background  of  this  controversial  campaign  and 
the  Anglo-American  debates  over  it  at  the  Cairo  Conference  and  later.  (See  also 
Strategic  Planning  for  Coalition  Warfare:  1943-1944.)  They  then  describe  the 
campaign  in  north  Burma,  with  detailed  attention  to  the  exhausting  thrust  of  Merrill’s 
Marauders,  the  major  U.S.  ground  combat  force  in  the  theater,  to  Myitkyina  and  the 
long  struggle  to  occupy  and  hold  the  town. 

In  the  summer  of  1 944  Stilwell  had  once  more  to  give  his  full  attention  to  China, 
when  the  Japanese  launched  a  large-scale  offensive  and  Chiang’s  forces  were  unable 
to  prevent  them  from  overrunning  Chennault’s  airfields.  Stilwell’s  proposal, 
supported  by  the  President,  was  to  put  Stilwell  in  command  of  the  threatened  Chinese 
forces,  including  some  Chinese  Communist  units  that  were  fighting  the  Japanese. 
When  Chiang  refused  to  accept  Stilwell,  the  President  recalled  him.  The  volume 
concludes  with  a  well-documented  account  of  these  dramatic  events,  including  the 
mission  of  General  Hurley  to  China  as  the  President’s  representative. 


THE  CHINA-BURMA-INDIA  THEATER 


95 


TIME  RUNS  OUT  IN  CBI.  By  Charles  F.  Romanus  and  Riley  Sunderland.  (1959, 
1985;  428  pages,  7  tables,  5  charts,  15  maps,  76  illustrations,  bibliographical  note, 
glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  9-3.) 

Time  Runs  Out  in  CBI  is  a  history  of  the  two  U.S.  theaters  into  which  China- 
Burma-India  was  split  when  Stilwell  was  recalled,  one  (India-Burma)  commanded  by 
Lt.  Gen.  Daniel  I.  Sultan,  the  other  (China)  by  Lt.  Gen.  Albert  C.  Wedemeyer.  This 
volume  continues  and  completes  the  story  of  the  north  Burma  campaign,  recounts  the 
operations  of  Chinese-American  forces  along  the  Salween  River,  and  describes  the 
logistical  efforts  of  General  Sultan’s  command. 

The  story  of  General  Wedemeyer’s  attempt  to  provide  the  Chinese  with  an  army 
that  they  could  support  and  also  powerful  enough  to  guarantee  China’s  freedom  is  the 
core  of  this  book.  By  the  end  of  July  1945  Wedemeyer  had  given  thirteen  weeks’ 
training  to  eleven  Chinese  Nationalist  divisions  and  had  started  twenty-two  more  on 
their  first  training  cycle.  To  this  total,  five  battle-tested  divisions  fresh  from  the 
Burma  campaign  could  be  added.  The  beginnings  of  a  Chinese  Services  of  Supply 
to  support  these  30-odd  divisions  were  at  hand,  and  service  schools  were  functioning. 
But  before  this  force  could  advance  to  the  coast,  Japan  surrendered  and  time  ran  out 
in  CBI.  The  book  ends  with  the  Japanese  surrender. 

Key  topics: 

1.  Strategy  (planning)  (I,  Chs.  II,  V,  VII-X;  II,  Chs.  I,  II,  X;  III,  Part  II). 

2.  Lend-lease  (see  indexes  of  all  three  volumes). 

3.  Conducting  a  theater  SOS  (I,  Chs.  II,  VI;  II,  Chs.  Ill,  VII;  III,  Ch.  I,  and  Part 

II). 

4.  U.S.  policy  toward  China  (I,  Chs.  I,  II,  V,  IX;  II,  Ch.  II,  and  Part  III;  III,  Chs. 
I,  XI). 

5.  Line  of  communications  problems  (I,  Chs.  VI,  VIII,  IX;  II,  Ch.  VII;  III,  Chs. 
VII,  X,  XI). 

6.  Command  problems— Allied  (I,  Chs.  Ill,  IV,  VIII,  IX;  II,  Chs.  II,  V,  VIII,  X, 
XII;  III,  Chs.  I,  V,  VIII). 

7.  Volunteer  airforces  (I,  Chs.  I-IV). 

8.  Local  procurement  by  an  SOS  directed  to  “live  off  the  land”  (I,  Ch.  VI;  II,  Ch. 
VII;  III,  Part  II). 

9.  Organizing  a  theater  of  operations  (I,  Chs.  II,  III,  V,  X;  III,  Ch.  I). 

10.  Stilwell’s  programs  for  China  (I,  Chs.  Ill,  IV,  V,  VII,  IX,  X;  II,  Chs.  I,  II). 

1 1 .  Wedemeyer’s  programs  for  China  (III,  Part  II). 

12.  Stilwell’s  exercise  of  command  and  diplomatic  functions  (I  and  II); 
Wedemeyer’s  exercise  (III,  Part  II). 

13.  Campaigning  in  Burma  (see  indexes  of  all  three  volumes). 

14.  Chinese  training  centers  (see  indexes  of  all  three  volumes). 

15.  Engineering  problems  (see  index  entries  in  all  three  volumes  on  roads, 
airfields,  and  construction). 

1 6.  Airlift  to  China  and  supply  by  air  in  Burma  (see  indexes  to  all  three  volumes). 

17.  Strategic  air  operations  based  on  India  and  China  (see  indexes  to  all  three 
volumes). 


The  Technical  Services 


The  Technical  Services 


There  was  a  time  when  armies  marched  on  their  stomachs,  and  providing 
sufficient  quantities  of  food  to  the  troops  was  the  significant  factor  in  determining  the 
success  of  a  campaign.  World  War  II,  however,  would  forever  alter  this  simplistic 
view  of  support  as  the  global  needs  to  supply  and  sustain  a  modem  army  in  the  field 
became  a  reality.  Technical  support  in  World  War  II  matured  as  in  no  other  conflict, 
tying  the  home  front  to  the  battlefront.  The  introduction  of  new  technologies,  such 
as  radar,  the  proximity  fuse,  and  the  atomic  bomb  were  only  a  small  part  of  the 
revolution  needed  to  sustain  a  modem  army  at  war. 

The  Technical  Services  subseries,  composed  of  twenty-four  volumes,  covers 
seven  technical  services  representing  the  combat  and  combat  services  branches  that 
the  Army  still  recognizes  in  1992.  In  all  cases  these  volumes  were  written  by  the 
technical  historian  most  knowledgeable  on  the  subject  in  conjunction  with  the 
assistance  of  the  Center  of  Military  History. 

THE  CHEMICAL  WARFARE  SERVICE 

When  the  United  States  entered  World  War  I,  the  Army  had  to  prepare  to  use  and 
cope  with  poisonous  gas,  which  the  Germans  had  introduced  as  a  weapon  on  the 
battlefield  of  Ypres  in  April  1915.  At  first  the  responsibilities  of  gas  warfare  were 
divided  among  the  Medical  Department,  the  Ordnance  Department,  the  Corps  of 
Engineers,  and  the  Signal  Corps,  with  help  from  the  Bureau  of  Mines,  which 
conducted  research  on  poisonous  gases.  In  June  1 9 1 8  the  War  Department  created  a 
Chemical  Warfare  Service  to  take  over  these  responsibilities  and  in  1 920  gave  it  the 
additional  mission  of  developing  other  devices  of  chemical  warfare  such  as  smoke, 
incendiaries,  and  the  4.2-inch  mortor.  The  three  volumes  on  this  service  cover  this 
little-known  subject  from  an  administrative  and  tactical  standpoint  during  World  War  II. 

THE  CORPS  OF  ENGINEERS 

The  four  volumes  in  this  technical  service  record  the  vast  engineering  efforts 
undertaken  by  the  United  States  to  cope  with  a  global  war.  Besides  the  huge  task  of 
constructing  a  continental  base  for  war,  the  Corps  of  Engineers  had  to  prepare 
equipment,  troops,  and  units  for  action  around  the  globe.  Though  designated  a 
“technical  service,”  the  engineers  had  more  troops  in  Army  Ground  Forces  units  than 
in  those  of  the  Army  Service  Forces.  Additionally  the  engineers  had  to  provide  battle 
equipment,  men,  and  units  trained  to  use  it,  as  well  as  to  make  the  Army’s  maps; 
construct  roads,  bridges,  and  railroads;  reconstruct  wrecked  seaports;  and  build 


100 


READER'S  GUIDE 


airfields  and  military  bases  in  every  theater  of  operations  in  which  American  forces 
were  engaged. 

THE  MEDICAL  DEPARTMENT 

The  organized  services  of  the  Medical  Department  in  war  come  closer  to  home 
to  the  public  than  those  of  the  other  great  supporting  services  of  the  Army.  The 
medical  and  surgical  treatment  that  The  Surgeon  General  and  his  department  gave 
their  millions  of  patients  during  World  War  II,  a  matter  of  vital  instructive  interest  to 
the  medical  profession,  is  discussed  in  the  detailed  clinical  volumes  published  by  the 
Historical  Unit  of  The  Surgeon  General’s  Office.  The  three  medical  volumes  in  the 
United  States  Army  in  World  War  II  series  instead  focus  on  the  care  given  to  those 
patients  along  the  medical  evacuation  chain  of  command,  paying  additional  attention 
to  such  areas  as  preventive  medicine,  sanitation,  combat  psychiatry,  organization,  and 
the  integration  of  medical  plans  into  the  larger  operational  and  tactical  activities  in 
every  operational  theater. 

THE  ORDNANCE  DEPARTMENT 

The  three  volumes  on  this  technical  service  cover  the  interaction  of  the  Ordnance 
Department  with  the  Army  in  the  field.  As  such  it  complements  the  combat 
operational  histories  while  providing  the  reader  with  an  appreciation  of  the  difficulties 
of  supplying  a  fighting  force. 

The  first  volume  on  this  service  is  a  history  of  the  phases  of  activity  which  precede 
procurement,  distribution,  and  maintenance  of  fighting  equipment,  namely,  organi¬ 
zation,  training,  research,  and  development.  It  is,  in  short,  an  analysis  of  the  factors 
that  largely  determined  the  quality  of  weapons  supplied  to  the  Army  in  World  War 
II.  Volume  II  on  the  Ordnance  Department  covers  the  problems  of  quantity: 
production,  distribution,  and  upkeep;  and  Volume  III,  operations  overseas. 

THE  QUARTERMASTER  CORPS 

Four  volumes  in  The  T echnical  Services  subseries  trace  the  Quartermaster  Corps 
as  it  copes  with  meeting  the  staggering  and  unanticipated  demands  of  a  global  war. 
Lack  of  funding  in  the  interwar  years  ill  prepared  the  corps  for  the  role  it  would  play 
in  the  war  against  Germany  and  Japan.  As  final  testimony  to  its  success,  a  Senate 
committee  would  report  after  the  war  that  “the  supply  of  our  armed  forces  in  Europe 
has  been  a  remarkable  achievement,  involving  the  delivery  across  the  ocean  and  over 
beaches  and  through  demolished  ports,  and  then  over  a  war-tom  countryside  into 
France  and  Germany  of  tonnages  far  in  excess  of  anything  previously  within  the 
conception  of  man.” 

THE  SIGNAL  CORPS 

The  first  two  of  the  three  volumes  on  this  service  present  the  history  of  the  corps 


THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES 


101 


chronologically,  rather  than  topically,  unlike  the  others  in  The  Technical  Services 
subseries.  The  story  is  carried  forward  on  a  broad  front.  Although  the  focus  is 
generally  the  Office  of  the  Chief  Signal  Officer  in  Washington,  it  follows  units  of  the 
corps  into  action  on  the  multiplying  overseas  theaters  of  operations.  The  third  volume 
focuses  on  the  revolution  in  communications  that  took  place  during  this  period. 

THE  TRANSPORTATION  CORPS 

The  three  volumes  on  this  corps  deal  with  the  youngest  of  the  seven  technical 
services.  Created  in  July  1 942  to  control  the  factors  that  go  into  the  movement  of  men 
and  munitions.  Army  transportation  would  in  time  become  one  of  the  controlling 
factors  in  the  prosecution  of  the  war.  The  first  two  volumes  deal  with  transportation 
in  the  United  States,  with  the  last  volume  covering  overseas  land  and  water  operations. 


THE  CHEMICAL  WARFARE  SERVICE:  ORGANIZING  FOR  WAR.  By  Leo 

P.  Brophy  and  George  J.  B.  Fisher.  (1959,  1989;  498  pages,  16  tables,  1 1  charts,  1 
map,  32  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  10-1 .) 

The  first  part  of  this  volume  is  an  administrative  history  of  the  Chemical  Warfare 
Service  from  its  inception  until  1 946,  when  it  became  the  Chemical  Corps.  This  part 
covers  the  experience  of  World  War  I,  at  home  and  with  the  American  Expeditionary 
Forces;  the  trying  years  from  1 920  to  1 939  when  the  new  service  had  to  contend  with 
military  parsimony  and  the  public  opprobrium  attached  to  gas  warfare;  and  then  with 
the  greatly  expanded  functions  of  the  service  in  World  War  II. 

In  that  war  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service  was  responsible  for  training  not  only 
its  own  service  troops  and  specialized  combat  units  for  chemical  mortar,  smoke 
generator,  and  chemical  air  operations,  but  also  for  training  the  whole  Army  to  cope 
with  chemical  warfare,  and,  incidentally,  for  training  civilians  for  defense  against  the 
use  of  chemicals  in  case  of  enemy  attack.  These  training  missions  are  the  subject  of 
Part  II. 

In  1942  the  Chief  of  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service  was  designated  to  head  a 
United  States  Chemical  Warfare  Committee,  which  worked  out  with  the  British 
combined  policies  and  plans  for  chemical  warfare — an  experience  described  in  Part  I, 
Chapter  IV. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  The  status  of  gas  warfare  in  international  treaties  (Ch.  II). 

2.  Plans  for  use  of  poisonous  gases  in  World  War  II  (Chs.  II— IV). 

3.  Industrial  manpower  problems  in  producing  chemical  weapons  (Ch.  VII). 

4.  Civilian-defense  preparations  and  training  (Ch.  X). 

5.  Antigas  training  of  Army  air  and  ground  units  (Ch.  XVI). 

6.  American  preparations  for  gas  warfare  in  World  War  I  (Ch.  I). 

7.  Problems  in  wartime  expansion  of  production,  testing,  and  storage  facilities 
(Ch.  VI). 

8.  Problems  in  the  production  of  training  and  technical  manuals  (Ch.  XI). 


102 


READER'S  GUIDE 


9.  The  training  of  officer  candidates  (Ch.  XV). 

THE  CHEMICAL  WARFARE  SERVICE :  FROM  LABORATORY  TO  FIELD. 

By LeoP.  Brophy,  WyndhamD.  Miles,  and  RexmondC.  Cochrane.  (1959, 1980;498 
pages,  11  tables,  2  charts,  49  illustrations,  2  appendixes,  bibliographical  note, 
glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  1 0-2.) 

This  volume  describes  and  evaluates  the  record  ofthe  Chemical  Warfare  Service 
in  developing,  procuring,  and  issuing  munitions  of  chemical  warfare  to  the  Army  and 
Navy  from  the  inception  of  the  service  in  World  War  I.  In  that  war,  with  the  assistance 
of  the  Bureau  of  Mines  and  the  National  Research  Council,  the  service  developed 
toxic  agents  and  protective  equipment  and  procured  them  on  a  large  scale,  though  few 
of  the  items  produced  had  reached  the  troops  of  the  American  Expeditionary  Forces 
when  the  war  ended  (Chapter  I).  In  the  postwar  years  of  military  economy  the  service 
could  keep  only  a  nucleus  of  scientists  at  work  on  the  discovery  and  designing  of  its 
munitions  (Chapter  II).  In  the  field  of  procurement  and  distribution  its  activity,  except 
for  planning,  was  limited  almost  entirely  to  gas  masks,  manufactured  at  Edgewood 
Arsenal  and  stored  at  the  Edgewood  depot  (Chapter  X). 

Increased  appropriations  and  rapid  expansion  came  with  the  semimobilization  of 
1 939-4 1 ,  when  the  service  built  new  laboratories,  plants,  arsenals,  proving  grounds, 
and  depots,  and  began  to  stock  chemical  munitions  (Chapter  X),  while  its  scientists 
watched  the  development  of  munitions  that  were  proving  useful  in  Europe  (Chapter  II). 

The  service  expanded  very  rapidly  after  the  United  States  entered  the  war.  At  the 
heart  of  its  special  activities  was  an  augmented  technical  staff,  which  worked  with  the 
assistance  of  the  Office  of  Scientific  Research  and  Development  and  other  civilian 
agencies.  The  mission  of  the  service  was  extended  to  include  the  offensive  and 
defensive  aspects  of  biological  warfare,  long  under  discussion,  and  now  recognized 
as  a  serious  threat  (Chapter  V).  In  pursuing  its  original  mission  the  service  searched 
for  more  effective  war  gases  (Chapter  III),  and  better  means  of  physical  protection 
against  toxic  agents  (Chapter  IV).  It  also  improved  the  4.2-inch  chemical  mortar  into 
an  extremely  effective  high  explosive  as  well  as  chemical  weapon  (Chapter  VI); 
developed  what  were  essentially  new  weapons:  flamethrowers  (Chapter  VII)  and 
incendiaries  (Chapter  VIII);  and  provided  better  screening  smokes  and  smoke 
generators  (Chapter  IX). 

The  service  manufactured  these  munitions  in  its  arsenals  and  plants  and  also 
procured  great  quantities  of  them  through  contracts  with  private  industry.  In  addition 
to  problems  of  procurement  that  it  shared  with  the  other  technical  services,  the 
Chemical  Warfare  Service  had  its  own,  such  as  those  incident  to  the  relatively  modest 
size  of  its  contracts,  and  the  fact  that  most  of  its  items  had  not  reached  an  advanced 
stage  of  development  (Chapters  XIII-XV).  The  service  also  had  peculiar  problems  of 
storage  and  distribution  (Chapter  XVI)  and  unusual  difficulties  in  the  field  of  property 
disposal  (Chapter  XVII)  because  of  the  nature  of  its  munitions. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Cooperation  between  military  and  civilian  scientists  in  chemical  and  biological 
research  (Chs.  II,  V). 


THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES 


103 


2.  Preparations  for  biological  warfare  (Ch.  V). 

3.  The  role  of  American  industry  in  the  procurement  of  chemical  munitions  (Chs. 
XIV,  XV). 

4.  Research  and  development  procedures  (Chs.  II,  III). 

5.  Procurement  planning  (Ch.  X). 

6.  The  pricing  program  (Ch.  XII). 

7.  Renegotiation  of  war  contracts  (Ch.  XII). 

8.  The  Supply  Control  System  (Ch.  XIII). 

9.  Chemical  storage  and  disposal  (Chs.  XVI,  XVII). 

THE  CHEMICAL  WARFARE  SERVICE:  CHEMICALS  IN  COMBAT.  By 

Brooks  E.  Kleber  and  Dale  Birdsell.  ( 1 966, 1 984, 1 990;  697  pages,  8  charts,  7  maps, 
46  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  10-3.) 

Chemicals  in  Combat ,  the  last  of  three  volumes  devoted  to  the  Chemical  Warfare 
Service  (CWS)  in  World  War  II,  covers  the  overseas  story  of  that  technical  service. 
The  first  six  chapters  concern  planning,  organization,  and  logistics  in  the  major 
theaters  of  operations.  Most  of  the  remaining  chapters  describe  the  development  and 
combat  employment  of  smoke  munitions  and  generators,  the  4.2-inch  mortar,  the 
portable  and  mechanized  flamethrowers,  and  incendiary  munitions. 

An  underlying  theme  pervades  this  overseas  story.  The  Chemical  Warfare 
Service  was  organized  in  World  War  I  as  the  vehicle  for  employ  ing  gas  munitions  and 
for  defending  against  the  use  of  gas  by  the  enemy.  It  was  thought  that  these  would 
be  the  principal  roles  in  World  War  II.  But  because  gas  was  not  used  in  the  Second 
World  War,  the  CWS  men  and  units  had  to  justify  their  presence  by  undertaking  non¬ 
gas  warfare  missions.  If  there  were  two  key  words  to  describe  the  overseas  CWS 
experience,  they  would  be  “preparedness”  for  the  possible  introduction  of  gas 
warfare  and  “improvisation”  for  the  effective  use  of  units  in  the  absence  of  gas 
warfare.  On  top  of  all  this  the  chemical  service  was  operating  in  an  Army  that  was 
not  enamored  with  the  traditional  chemical  mission,  let  alone  the  possibility  of 
improvisation. 

Had  the  Allied  nations  known  with  certainty  what  the  intentions  of  the  Axis 
powers  were  with  regard  to  the  use  of  gas  warfare,  the  U.S.  investment  in  time  and 
materiel  might  not  have  been  undertaken.  On  the  other  hand,  had  the  Allies  been  any 
less  prepared,  one  only  can  guess  at  what  effect  that  a  persistent  agent  might  have  had 
on  the  D-day  landing  or  at  Anzio.  If  the  Japanese  had  not  believed  their  home  land 
vulnerable  to  gas  they  might  have  used  mustard  agents  against  the  amphibious  forces 
that  slowly  penetrated  their  vast  defensive  perimeter.  The  author  argues  that  the  U.S . 
preparedness  from  gas  warfare  was  worth  the  effort.  Like  a  “fleet  in  being,”  it 
countered  a  threat  that  could  have  been  decisive  to  the  Allied  cause  if  gone 
unchallenged. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Origins  of  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service  in  World  War  I  (Ch.  I). 

2.  Development  of  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service  between  the  two  world  wars 
(Chs.  I,  VII,  XI). 


104 


READER'S  GUIDE 


3.  Adapting  a  theater  CWS  staff  to  a  nonchemical  environment  (Ch.  II). 

4.  Evolution  of  a  theater  CWS  supply  system  (Ch.  IV). 

5 .  Impact  of  a  dynamic  chemical  officer  in  the  Central  Pacific  theater  (Chs.  V,  VI). 

6.  Diversity  of  duties  of  the  CWS  service  units  (Ch.  VII). 

7.  The  development  of  the  large  area  smoke  installation  to  conceal  ports, 
beachheads,  and  river  crossings  (Chs.  VIII,  XI). 

8.  War  Department  bureaucracy  and  recalcitrance  as  illustrated  in  its  reluctance 
to  authorize  the  4.2-inch  mortar  to  fire  high  explosives  (Ch.  XI). 

9.  Demand  for  portable  and  mechanized  flamethrowers  in  the  Pacific  theaters 
(Chs.  XIV,  XV). 

10.  Why  gas  was  not  used  during  World  War  II  (Ch.  XVIII). 

THE  CORPS  OF  ENGINEERS:  TROOPS  AND  EQUIPMENT.  By  Blanche  D. 
Coll,  JeanE.  Keith,  and  Herbert H.  Rosenthal.  ( 1958, 1974;  622  pages,  15  tables,  1 1 
charts,  76  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  10^4.) 

This  volume  is  a  history  of  the  measures  taken  in  the  United  States  to  cope  with 
the  variety  of  demands  placed  on  the  Corps  ofEngineers  during  World  War  II.  In  the 
period  before  Pearl  Harbor  the  dominant  theme  was  preparation  to  fight  in  the  war  of 
movement  that  air  and  armor  had  introduced  on  the  battlefields  of  Europe.  In  the 
midst  of  rapid  expansion,  the  corps  adopted  and  procured  such  equipment  as 
emergency  bridges  designed  to  sustain  heavier  loads,  airplane  landing  mats  to  take  the 
place  of  paved  runways,  powerful  earth-moving  machinery,  and  delicate  mapping 
instruments  to  exploit  the  possibilities  of  aerial  photography.  Such  equipment,  while 
greatly  increasing  the  engineer  capabilities,  also  increased  its  dependence  on  skilled 
manpower  and  on  a  steady  supply  of  industrial  products. 

Once  the  United  States  was  in  the  war  the  corps  faced  global  demands  not  only 
for  more  troops,  but  also  for  new  types  of  units  to  reconstruct  damaged  ports,  operate 
small  craft  in  amphibious  landings,  distribute  petroleum  products,  manufacture  and 
distribute  parts  of  complicated  machinery,  and  many  other  incidental  tasks.  The 
unexpected  lack  of  skills  and  aptitudes  of  a  great  number  of  the  recruits,  the  need  for 
hasty  training,  and  the  priorities  of  procurement  assigned  to  weapons  immediately 
required  gravely  handicapped  the  engineers.  The  second  part  of  this  work,  devoted 
to  1942,  gives  an  account  of  the  basic  decisions  and  measures  adopted  to  meet  the 
stresses  and  changes  of  incessant  crises  and  explores  the  debate  between  the  corps  and 
the  higher  echelons  of  the  War  Department  in  the  search  for  realistic  compromises. 

After  1942,  training  programs,  lengthened  and  improved  in  the  light  of  experi¬ 
ence,  began  to  produce  a  more  versatile  engineer-soldier.  Thereafter,  too,  procure¬ 
ment  could  be  based  on  more  accurately  estimated  long-range  requirements  and  freer 
access  to  materials.  The  last  part  of  the  volume  is  devoted  to  this  period  in  which  the 
corps  reached  its  full  strength  and  capacity  and  in  which  the  orderly  distribution  of 
equipment  and  replacement  parts  became  the  primary  goal  of  the  corps’  logistical 
activity  in  the  United  States. 

The  whole  volume  particularizes,  and  merges  into,  the  comprehensive  pictures 
of  mobilization,  training,  procurement,  and  supply  presented  in  the  Army  Ground 


THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES 


105 


F  orces  volumes  on  the  organization  and  training  of  ground  combat  troops :  R.  Elberton 
Smith’s  The  Army  and  Economic  Mobilization  and  Leighton  and  Coakley’s  volumes 
on  Global  Logistics  and  Strategy. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Recruiting  and  training  programs  and  devices  to  obtain  enough  recruits  with 
adequate  skills  and  aptitudes  (Chs.  V,  VII,  X-XVIII). 

2.  Devices  to  economize  manpower,  including  the  development  of  general- 
purpose  units,  in  the  face  of  a  trend  toward  specialized  types  (Chs.  I,  VI,  X,  XV). 

3.  Employment  of  black  troops  (Chs.  V,  VI,  X-XI,  XIII-XIV). 

4.  Standardization  of  equipment  (Chs.  IX,  XXII). 

5.  Competition  between  strictly  military  items  and  commercial  components  for 
industrial  facilities  (Chs.  IV,  VIII,  IX,  XXI). 

6.  Cooperation  with  other  services  and  with  Allies  in  the  development  of 
equipment  (Chs.  II,  XX). 

7.  Procedures  for  allocating  supplies  among  Allies  (Chs.  VIII,  IX). 

8.  Engineer  personnel  and  training  in  a  period  of  quasi-mobilization  (Ch.  V). 

9.  Organization  and  functions  of  engineer  troop  units  (Chs.  I— II,  VI,  X). 

10.  Organization,  functions,  equipment,  and  training  of  amphibian  brigades  (Ch. 
XVI),  port  reconstruction  and  repair  groups  (Ch.  XVII),  and  petroleum  distribution 
companies  (Ch.  XVIII). 

1 1 .  Development  of  engineer  equipment  (Chs.  II,  XX). 

12.  Map  supply  and  strategic  intelligence  and  the  division  of  responsibility 
among  the  Corps  of  Engineers,  the  Army  Air  Forces,  and  nonmilitary  agencies  in  the 
preparation  and  supply  of  maps  (Chs.  Ill,  XIX). 

13.  Camouflage  (Ch.  III). 

14.  Procurement  and  distribution  of  supplies,  including  the  computation  of 
requirements  and  aid  to  Allies  (Chs.  IV,  VIII,  IX,  XXI,  XXII). 

1 5.  Methods  of  estimating  quantities  of  supplies  needed  for  construction  opera¬ 
tions,  that  is,  Class  IV  requirements  (Ch.  XXI). 

16.  Maintenance  and  the  supply  of  spare  parts  (Chs.  IX,  XXII). 

17.  Procurement  and  schooling  of  engineer  officers  (Chs.  V,  VII). 

1 8.  Replacement  training  (Chs.  VII,  XI). 

1 9.  Unit  training  (engineer)  under  Army  Ground  Forces,  Army  Air  Forces,  and 
Army  Service  Forces  control  (Chs.  XII-XV). 


THE  CORPS  OF  ENGINEERS:  CONSTRUCTION  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES. 

By  LenoreFine  and  Jesse  A.  Remington.  ( 1 972, 1 989;  747  pages,  20  tables,  27  charts, 
5  maps,  98  illustrations,  appendix,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub 
10-5.) 

Shortly  before  the  United  States  entered  World  War  II  on  the  side  of  the  Allies, 
the  responsibility  for  military  construction  in  the  United  States  was  transferred  from 
the  Quartermaster  Corps  to  the  Corps  of  Engineers.  This  major  shift  in  mission  took 


106 


READER'S  GUIDE 


place  in  two  steps.  First  the  engineers  took  charge  of  Air  Corps  construction  in 
November  1 940.  Then,  just  weeks  before  the  attack  on  Pearl  Harbor,  they  took  over 
all  military  construction  in  support  of  the  expanding  Army.  In  the  course  of  the  war, 
the  engineers  carried  out  a  multibillion-dollar  program  of  construction.  To  do  this, 
they  converted  their  decentralized  network  of  field  offices  from  water  resource 
projects  to  the  new  mission.  The  result  was  a  massive  engineer  construction  effort  that 
ranged  from  the  barracks,  hospitals,  and  other  buildings  that  made  up  entire  new 
camps  to  munitions  factories  and  the  complex  and  far-flung  facilities  employed  in  the 
Manhattan  Project  for  production  of  the  atomic  bomb. 

Construction  in  the  United  States  is  replete  with  citations,  statistics,  and  Army 
organization  charts  to  make  clearer  an  otherwise  potentially  confusing  subject.  More 
importantly  this  volume  is  also  a  history  of  people:  of  military  leaders  and  their  staffs 
and  of  civilian  engineers,  contractors,  and  suppliers,  giving  human  interest  to  the 
narrative  that  covers  all  phases  of  this  remarkable  program.  After  describing  the 
arrangements  under  which  military  construction  was  carried  out  during  World  War 
I  and  the  interwar  years,  the  study  covers  the  political  negotiations  involved  in  the 
change  and  the  many  administrative  adjustments  made  by  the  Corps  of  Engineers  as 
it  adapted  to  being  the  Army’s  construction  agent.  The  authors  trace  the  execution  of 
the  mission  through  the  dramatic  rapid  expansion  in  1 942  to  peak  production  in  1 943. 
They  also  cover  planning  for  demobilization,  which  began  during  the  period  of  the 
greatest  construction  activity. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Wartime  contracting  policies  and  practices  (Chs.  I,  II,  III,  V,  VIII,  XIII,  XVII). 

2.  The  use  of  standardized  construction  plans  (Chs.  II,  IV,  V,  X,  XVI). 

3.  Acquisition,  control,  and  apportionment  of  strategic  materials  (Chs.  II,  VI,  IX, 
XVI). 

4.  Relations  between  the  government,  contractors,  and  labor  unions  in  the 
construction  trades  (Chs.  V,  X). 

5.  Striking  a  balance  between  construction  for  troops  and  for  industrial  produc¬ 
tion  (Chs.  VIII-X). 

6.  Real  estate  acquisition  and  disposal  (Chs.  V,  XII,  XV). 

7.  Planning  for  demobilization  (Ch.  XVIII). 

8.  The  special  characteristics  of  airfield  construction  (Chs.  XIV,  XIX). 

9.  Construction  in  support  of  the  Manhattan  Project  (Ch.  XX). 


THE  CORPS  OF  ENGINEERS:  THE  WAR  AGAINST  JAPAN.  By  Karl  C. 
Dod.  (1966,  1982;  759  pages,  1  chart,  33  maps,  54  illustrations,  2  appendixes, 
bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  10-6.) 

A  companion  to  the  operational  volumes  in  the  Army ’s  Pacific  theater  subseries, 
this  volume  chronicles  the  story  of  the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers  in  the  most 
primitive,  undeveloped,  and  remote  areas  of  the  Pacific  Ocean,  China,  and  Southeast 
Asia.  More  often  than  not,  these  regions  were  covered  with  impenetrable  jungles, 
alive  with  tropical  insects  and  debilitating  diseases,  cut  by  swift  and  wide  rivers,  criss- 


THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES 


107 


crossed  with  rugged  mountains,  and  at  the  end  of  tenuous  supply  lines  that  stretched 
hundreds,  if  not  thousands,  of  miles  back  to  developed  bases. 

Whether  in  the  tropical  jungles  of  Papua-New  Guinea  or  the  Burma-China 
borderlands,  on  the  coral  atolls  of  the  Central  Pacific,  or  on  the  inhospitable  islands 
of  the  Aleutians,  American  forces  were  initially  confronted  with  a  lack  of  even  the 
most  rudimentary  logistical  facilities  and  with  few  of  the  supplies  they  needed  to 
sustain  modem  combat  operations.  They  first  had  to  carve  out  toeholds  for  bases  that 
could  then  be  tied  into  the  worldwide  logistical  network  that  would  pump  in  the  men 
and  materiel  to  press  the  fight  against  the  Japanese.  That  difficult  job  belonged  to  the 
Army  engineers,  who  first  fought  as  combat  engineers  on  the  front  lines  and  then 
became  the  builders  who  transformed  jungles  or  atolls  into  new  links  in  the  chain  of 
the  advanced  airfields,  ports,  and  supply  bases  that  would  sustain  the  next  forward 
steps  on  the  road  to  Tokyo. 

The  Corps  of  Engineers  began  its  war  against  Japan  well  before  the  attack  on  Pearl 
Harbor  as  engineer  units  in  Alaska,  Hawaii,  the  Philippine  Islands,  and  Panama 
labored  to  improve  the  defenses  of  the  United  States  and  its  vital  overseas  possessions 
against  hostile  attack.  After  the  war  began,  engineers  in  the  Philippines  were 
consumed  in  the  desperate  and  unsuccessful  campaign  to  hold  Bataan  and  Corregidor 
until  help  arrived.  Meanwhile  engineer  units  began  flowing  into  Australia  and  on  to 
Papua  where  they  developed  the  bases  from  which  the  Allies  would  begin  their  long 
campaign  to  return  to  the  Philippines. 

General  MacArthur’s  strategy  of  “leapfrogging”  up  Papua-New  Guinea  and 
back  to  the  Philippines  stressed  avoiding  strong  Japanese  concentrations  and  seizing 
and  then  developing  the  airfields  and  bases  that  would  permit  his  air  forces  to  cover 
his  next  leap  forward.  The  success  of  this  approach  depended  heavily  on  the  ability 
of  his  engineer  forces  to  build  sufficient  facilities  quickly  under  enemy  fire,  in  hostile 
and  primitive  conditions,  and  often  with  limited  supplies  of  materials  and  heavy 
equipment. 

Among  the  most  notable  of  the  many  achievements  of  the  Army  engineers  in  the 
Southwest  Pacific  Area  were  the  operations  of  the  2d,  3d,  and  4th  Engineer  Special 
Brigades  which  conducted  all  of  Mac  Arthur’ s  amphibious  assault  landings  from  1 943 
through  the  end  of  the  war.  Created  in  1 942  to  conduct  the  Army’s  assault  landings, 
the  boat  and  shore  operations  of  the  engineer  special  brigades  found  their  fullest  use 
in  MacArthur’s  numerous  amphibious  operations. 

In  the  China-Burma-India  (CBI)  Theater  from  1942  through  1944,  engineers 
concentrated  on  establishing  the  airfields,  supply  lines,  and  bases  necessary  to  sustain 
British,  Indian,  Chinese,  and  American  forces  facing  the  Japanese.  While  many 
engineer  units  supported  the  aerial  supply  route  across  the  Himalayas  (the  Hump)  and 
built  airfields  in  China  from  which  U.S.  and  Chinese  air  forces  struck  back  at  the 
Japanese  and  their  homeland,  others  confronted  a  virtually  impassable  barrier  of 
mountains,  rivers,  and  jungles  in  their  mission  to  reestablish  an  overland  supply  route 
to  China.  By  February  1945  Army  engineers  had  driven  the  Ledo  Road  and  its 
accompanying  petroleum  pipeline  across  the  mountains  and  jungles  of  northern 
Burma  to  link  up  with  the  old  Burma  Road  and  thus  once  again  opened  a  secure  land 
route  to  China  for  military  supplies. 


108 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Key  topics: 

1 .  Organization  and  employment  of  engineer  combat  and  construction  units  in 
support  of  theater  operations  (Chs.  IV-XV). 

2.  The  role  of  engineer  units  in  the  Philippine  Islands  Campaign  of  1 94 1  -42  (Ch. 
HI). 

3.  The  role  of  combat  engineers  in  combined  arms  operations  (Chs.  Ill — VI,  X- 
XV). 

4.  Planning  and  conduct  of  amphibious  landing  operations  by  engineer  special 
brigades  (Chs.  VI,  XIII-XIV). 

5.  The  development  of  bases  and  lines  of  communications  in  remote  and 
undeveloped  areas  (Chs.  IV,  VII,  X-XV). 

6.  Airfield  and  air  base  development  in  primitive  areas  (Chs.  IV-VI,  X-XV). 

7.  Employment  of  black  engineer  units  (Chs.  IV- VII,  XIV-XV). 

8 .  The  effect  of  modem  construction  equipment  and  mechanization  on  engineer 
operations  (Chs.  IV-XV). 

9.  The  prewar  strengthening  of  defenses  in  Panama,  Hawaii,  and  Alaska  (Chs.  I- 
II). 

1 0.  Interrelationship  of  strategy,  logistics,  and  construction  (Chs.  IV-V,  IX-XV). 

THE  CORPS  OF  ENGINEERS:  THE  WAR  AGAINST  GERMANY  By  Alfred 
M.  Beck,  Abe  Bortz,  Charles  W.  Lynch,  Lida  Mayo,  and  Ralph  F.  Weld.  (1985;  608 
pages,  5  charts,  30  maps,  88  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH 
Pub  10-22.) 

This  volume  parallels  the  preceding  one,  treating  the  Army  Corps  of  Engineers 
in  the  Mediterranean  and  European  theaters.  There  Army  engineers  were  called  upon 
to  provide  their  traditional  combat  missions  in  offensive  and  defensive  ground 
operations  as  well  as  the  construction  support  needed  to  develop  the  logistical 
structure  to  sustain  those  operations.  But  the  requirements  of  modem  war  against 
powerful  foes  demanded  that  they  played  new  and  innovative  roles,  such  as  in 
amphibious  operations,  airfield  development  for  tactical  and  strategic  air  forces,  aerial 
photography  and  mapping,  and  port  reconstruction  and  repair. 

While  constructing  the  support  and  training  base  for  American  forces  in  the 
United  Kingdom,  U.S.  Army  engineers  were  severely  tested  during  combat  opera¬ 
tions  in  North  Africa,  Sicily,  and  Italy.  New  tactical  bridging  equipment,  such  as  the 
Bailey  and  treadway  bridges,  were  successfully  employed  as  were  new  heavy 
construction  equipment,  such  as  Caterpillar  tractors  and  LeToumeau  scrapers,  which 
provided  American  engineers  with  a  significant  advantage  over  their  opposing 
counterparts.  First  encountered  in  Tunisia,  the  German  adeptness  at  mine  warfare  was 
a  serious  challenge  which  the  combat  engineers  never  completely  overcame  through 
the  remainder  of  the  war.  In  this  area,  as  in  others,  technology  could  not  replace  the 
human  skills  of  the  individual  engineer. 

This  volume  records  the  slow  and  methodical  operations  of  the  Italian  campaign 
which  placed  a  high  premium  on  the  more  traditional  skills  of  the  combat  engineer 
— laying  and  clearing  minefields,  building  and  assaulting  field  fortifications, 


THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES 


109 


and  developing  and  maintaining  supply  lines.  Siege  operations  against  a  dug-in 
enemy  in  mountainous  terrain,  in  which  engineers  played  a  critical  role,  replaced 
mobile  warfare  for  months  on  end.  In  such  operations,  base  development  and  the 
buildup  of  supplies  were  of  importance  to  each  forward  leap  and  often  determined  the 
actual  timing  for  each  movement. 

During  the  Normandy  Campaign  of  1 944,  Army  engineer  efforts  supported  the 
initial  lodgment  and  then  the  ensuing  war  of  movement:  clearing  mines,  conducting 
assault  river  crossings,  erecting  temporary  tactical  bridges,  and  rebuilding  roads, 
airfields,  and  railways.  Bridging,  in  fact,  proved  critical  to  the  war  in  northern  Europe 
due  to  the  many  rivers,  canals,  and  lesser  water  courses  that  characterized  the  terrain. 
Allied  progress  often  depended  on  the  rapidity  with  which  engineers  could  repair 
existing  highway  and  rail  spans,  construct  new  ones,  and  replace  critical  assault 
bridging  with  more  permanent  structures. 

Also  treated  are  engineers  efforts  to  assist  the  military  government  in  restoring 
basic  services  throughout  liberated  western  Europe  and  newly  occupied  Germany  and 
to  build  and  maintain  the  logistical  infrastructure  that  supported  the  permanent 
American  forces  stationed  there. 

Key  topics: 

1.  Role  of  engineers  in  the  United  Kingdom,  1942  (Ch.  III). 

2.  Preparation  and  conduct  of  amphibious  operations  by  engineer  units  (Chs.  IV, 
VI,  VII,  XIV,  XV,  XVI,  XXIII). 

3.  Siege  operations  in  Europe  (Chs.  XVII,  XIX). 

4.  Petroleum,  oil,  and  lubricant  operations  and  doctrine  (Chs.  V,  XI,  XIII,  XX). 

5.  Organization  of  engineer  units  (Chs.  II,  IV,  XIV,  XVIII). 

6.  Mine  warfare  in  Tunisia  and  Europe  (Chs.  V,  IX,  X,  XIV,  XVII). 

7.  Preparation,  planning,  and  conduct  for  D-day  (Chs.  XIII-XVI). 

THE  MEDICAL  DEPARTMENT:  HOSPITALIZATION  AND  EVACUA¬ 
TION,  ZONE  OF  INTERIOR.  By  Clarence McKittrick Smith.  (1956, 1983, 1989; 
503  pages,  1 8  tables,  16  charts,  28  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index, 
CMH  Pub  10-7.) 

The  Surgeon  General  in  World  War  II  was  responsible  for  designing,  building, 
equipping,  and  operating  the  Army  ’  s  great  system  ofhospitals  in  the  United  States  and 
for  the  movement  to  them  of  patients  from  overseas  and  in  the  zone  of  interior.  His 
department  was  also  the  matrix  and  forge  of  the  hospitals  and  evacuation  units  sent 
to  theaters  of  operations  throughout  the  world,  and  it  selected,  trained,  and  equipped 
them.  Planning  and  improvement  of  methods  to  meet  these  complex  responsibilities 
constitute  the  main  theme  of  the  present  volume. 

The  author’s  well-documented  exposition  of  this  theme  focuses  on  large-scale 
hospital  administration,  to  include  medical  construction,  training,  procurement, 
logistics,  and  command  organization.  Included  are  treatments  of  The  Surgeon 
General  ’  s  sometime  difficult  relationships  with  the  Quartermaster  General,  the  Chief 
of  Engineers,  the  Chief  of  Transportation,  and  the  Commanding  Generals  of  the  Army 
Air  Forces  and  the  Army  Service  Forces  in  matters  of  responsibility  and  jurisdiction. 


110 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Key  topics: 

1 .  The  resolution  of  problems  of  authority  and  responsibility  with  other  authori¬ 
ties  concerned  with  hospitalization  and  evacuation  (Chs.  I,  IV,  IX). 

2.  Forecasting  bed  requirements  and  planning  new  construction  to  meet  them 
(Chs.  II,  III,  V,  XI,  XII,  XVII). 

3.  Development  of  new  types  of  hospitals  and  evacuation  units  for  theaters  of 
operations  (Chs.  VI,  VIII,  X,  XVI,  XXV). 

4.  Simplification  of  administrative  procedures  and  internal  organization  of 
hospitals  (Chs.  VII,  XIII,  XIV,  XV). 

5.  Redesigning  of  vehicles  for  moving  patients  (Chs.  XXII,  XXIII,  XXIV). 

6.  Forecasting  the  number  of  patients  to  be  evacuated  from  overseas  (Ch.  XIX). 

7.  Creation  of  a  unified  system  for  distributing  patients  among  hospitals  in  the 
United  States  (Chs.  XX,  XXI). 


THE  MEDICAL  DEPARTMENT:  MEDICAL  SERVICE  IN  THE  MEDITER¬ 
RANEAN  AND  MINOR  THEATERS.  By  Charles  M.  Wiltse.  (1965, 1978, 1989; 
664  pages,  39  tables,  43  maps,  128  illustrations,  4  appendixes,  bibliographical  note, 
glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  10-8.) 

The  Medical  Department:  Medical  Service  in  the  Mediterranean  and  Minor 
Theaters  is  the  first  of  three  volumes  concerning  the  administrative  history  of  the 
Army  Medical  Department’s  overseas  operations  in  World  War  II.  The  initial  chapter 
covers  the  work  of  the  Army  Medical  Department  at  the  Atlantic  outposts  established 
in  1 94 1  before  the  initiation  of  maj  or  deployments  to  the  Mediterranean  and  European 
theaters.  The  remaining  chapters  describe  the  Army  medical  service  in  the  campaigns 
in  North  Africa,  Sicily,  Italy,  and  southern  France.  Included  in  the  appendixes  are  a 
survey  of  the  organization  and  operations  of  the  German  medical  service  and  a  brief 
discussion  of  the  hospitalization  and  evacuation  system  of  French  forces  serving  with 
U.S.  troops  in  the  theater. 

In  the  Mediterranean  theater,  where  U.S.  Army  troops  launched  their  first  ground 
offensive  in  the  fall  of  1942,  the  organization,  equipment,  and  techniques  of  the 
Medical  Department  were  tested  under  a  wide  variety  of  conditions  from  the  deserts 
of  North  Africa  to  the  mountains  and  marshes  of  Italy.  The  experience  acquired 
significantly  benefited  later  campaigns  in  both  Europe  and  the  Pacific.  Of  particular 
importance  is  the  pioneering  work  on  combat  psychiatry  which  was  begun  on  an 
experimental  basis  in  Tunisia  and  Sicily. 

From  1 944,  when  the  campaign  in  northern  Europe  first  began  siphoning  veteran 
medical  formations  and  their  facilities  from  Italy,  to  the  spring  of  1945,  when  the 
Germans  surrendered,  untried  replacements  and  chronic  shortages  of  equipment  and 
supplies  handicapped  the  medical  service  in  the  Mediterranean  theater.  The  work 
documents  the  ingenuity  and  skill  required  by  medical  officers  to  prevent  disease  and 
to  provide  evacuation,  hospitalization,  and  care  for  the  sick  and  wounded  in  a  theater 
that  had  become  a  secondary  effort.  Finally,  the  study  covers  the  activities  of  Army 
medical  personnel  who  remained  in  southern  Europe  supporting  the  occupation  force 


THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES 


111 


and  the  local  governments,  until  the  last  U.S.  forces  left  Italy  in  December  1947. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Preventive  medicine  in  a  tropical  climate  (Chs.  I— II,  V,  XV). 

2.  Public  health  in  the  aftermath  of  war  (Chs.  II,  V,  XI,  XIII). 

3.  Medical  support  of  widely  dispersed  troop  concentrations  (Chs.  I— II). 

4.  Medical  support  of  major  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  Ill,  IV,  VI-VII,  X,  XV). 

5.  Preventive  medicine  and  insect-borne  disease  (Chs.  I,  II,  IV,  VI,  VII-X,  XV). 

6.  Combat  psychiatry  (Chs.  Ill,  IV,  VI-XI,  XIII,  XV). 

7.  Prevention  and  treatment  of  venereal  disease  (Chs.  I,  II,  VI,  VIII-X). 

8.  Training  of  medical  troops  (Ch.  IV). 

9.  Air  evacuation  (Chs.  I-V,  VII,  VIII,  X,  XI,  XIII,  XIV). 

1 0.  Medical  care  and  hospitalization  of  prisoners  of  war  (Chs.  V,  IX,  XII,  XIV). 

THE  MEDICAL  DEPARTMENT:  MEDICAL  SERVICE  IN  THE  EURO¬ 
PEAN  THEATER  OF  OPERATIONS.  By  Graham  A.  Cosmas  and  Albert  E. 
Cowdrey.  (1992;  652  pages,  9  tables,  12  charts,  6  diagrams,  27  maps,  102 
illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  10-23.) 

This  volume  tells  the  story  of  the  U.S.  Army  medical  service  in  the  largest 
American  land  campaign  of  World  War  II.  Primarily  an  operational  and  logistical 
rather  than  a  clinical  history,  it  follows  the  development  of  the  theater  medical  service 
from  the  beginning  of  the  U.S.  Army  buildup  in  Great  Britain  early  in  1942  through 
the  Normandy  invasion,  the  advance  across  France  and  the  Low  Countries,  and  the 
overrunning  of  the  Third  Reich. 

The  European  theater  Chief  Surgeon,  Maj.  Gen.  Paul  R.  Hawley,  and  his 
assistants  assembled  and  trained  over  a  quarter  million  medical  personnel;  established 
hospitals  containing  hundreds  of  thousands  of  beds  in  Great  Britain  and  on  the 
Continent;  solved  problems  of  supply;  safeguarded  troop  health;  and  developed  a 
complex  system  of  air,  sea,  rail,  and  ambulance  evacuation.  In  occupied  Germany, 
they  encountered  and  overcame  a  situation  new  to  American  armies:  the  surrender  and 
imprisonment  of  a  whole  enemy  army,  numbering  in  the  millions;  the  liberation  of 
other  millions  of  prisoners  and  displaced  persons;  and  the  care  of  a  conquered  people 
who  were  both  industrialized  and  highly  urbanized.  In  the  process,  the  medical 
service  met  the  challenges  of  working  with  Allies,  supporting  fast-moving  mecha¬ 
nized  forces,  adapting  units  and  equipment  for  unanticipated  missions,  and  integrat¬ 
ing  the  latest  findings  of  medical  science  into  a  comprehensive  system  of  patient  care. 
This  is,  however,  more  than  a  story  of  high  policy.  Also  described  are  the  efforts  and 
achievements  of  frontline  aidmen,  litterbearers,  and  ambulance  drivers;  doctors  and 
nurses  in  hospitals;  and  the  thousands  of  other  American  medical  soldiers.  Often 
unsung,  usually  overworked,  and  occasionally  in  mortal  danger,  they  gave  effect  to 
abstract  plans  through  countless  acts  of  courage  and  compassion. 

This  account  chronicles  theater  medical  planning  and  operations  under  conditions 
of  modem,  high-intensity  combat.  It  also  constitutes  a  case  study  in  the  workings  of 
combat  service  support  in  wartime  and  illustrates  principles  of  medical  organization 
that  remain  timeless.  Finally,  this  account  dramatically  reaffirms  the  truth  that  Army 


112 


READER'S  GUIDE 


medicine  requires  for  success  in  war  doctors  who  are  also  soldiers,  who  understand 
the  workings  of  the  other  branches  of  service,  and  who  are  able  to  cooperate  effectively 
with  them. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  The  solution  of  problems  of  command  and  control  of  the  medical  service  and 
its  relations  with  other  combat  and  support  elements  (Chs.  I,  II,  III,  XIII,  XVI,  XVII). 

2.  Forecasting  hospital  bed  requirements  and  planning  and  executing  new 
construction  to  meet  them  (Chs.  I,  II,  IV,  VIII,  X,  XIV,  XVII). 

3 .  Improvisation  of  new  types  of  hospitals  and  evacuation  units  within  a  theater 
of  operations  (Chs.  V,  VII,  IX,  X,  XI). 

4.  Operations  of  field  army,  corps,  and  division  medical  service  in  a  variety  of 
tactical  situations  (Chs.  VI,  VII,  IX,  XI,  XII,  XV). 

5.  Procurement  and  training  of  medical  personnel  and  medical  units  in  a  theater 
of  operations  (Chs.  II,  V,  XIII,  XVII). 

6.  Integration  of  medical  and  operational  planning  (Chs.  I,  II,  VI,  IX). 

7.  Theater  and  field  army  medical  supply  (Chs.  II,  VI,  VII,  IX,  X,  XI,  XIII,  XVII). 

8.  Development  of  a  theater  evacuation  policy  and  evacuation  system  (Chs.  IV, 
VIII,  X,  XIV,  XVII). 

9.  Preventive  medicine  in  garrison  and  during  combat  operations  (Chs.  I,  V,  VII, 
XIV,  XV,  XVI,  XVII). 

1 0.  The  medical  role  in  civil  affairs  and  disaster  relief  in  the  aftermath  of  war  (Chs. 
XVI,  XVII). 

THE  MEDICAL  DEPARTMENT:  MEDICAL  SERVICE  IN  THE  WAR 
AGAINST  JAPAN.  By  Mary  Ellen  Condon-Rall  and  Albert  E.  Cowdrey.  (CMH 
Pub  10-24,  forthcoming.) 

This  volume  treats  the  medical  history  of  the  war  against  Japan,  a  story  that  was 
as  varied  as  the  theater  itself,  which  covered  approximately  a  third  of  the  surface  of 
the  earth.  The  South  and  Southwest  Pacific  Areas  and  the  China-Burma-India  Theater 
were  ravaged  by  tropical  diseases;  cold  injury  was  a  problem  in  the  Aleutian  fighting; 
and  combat  surgery  was  everywhere  important.  The  need  to  fight  a  war  on  islands 
required  the  Army  to  make  many  changes  in  a  force  structure  designed  for  land 
combat,  and  the  Medical  Department  followed  suit  in  order  to  provide  medical 
support  on  the  beaches,  during  the  move  inland,  and  in  deep  jungle  fighting  beyond 
the  reach  of  vehicles. 

Command  arrangements  differed  as  widely  as  the  physical  environment.  Theater 
surgeons  were  obliged  to  work  in  both  Army-  and  Navy-run  theaters  and  within  joint 
and  combined  command  structures.  The  complications  that  resulted,  especially  in  the 
Southwest  Pacific  Area,  were  significant  not  only  because  coherent  medical  policy 
was  long  delayed,  but  because  of  the  special  difficulties  of  the  Pacific  war.  Command 
support  was  needed  to  assign  medical  materiel  the  high  priorities  that  it  needed  in 
order  to  cross  thousands  of  miles  of  open  ocean  and  arrive  at  the  proper  location,  at 
the  right  time,  and  in  adequate  quantity.  Even  more  important,  command  support  was 
absolutely  essential  to  enforce  the  rules  of  preventive  medicine  so  vital  to  troop  health 


THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES 


113 


while  fighting  in  primitive  and  highly  malarial  lands. 

In  the  South  and  Southwest  Pacific  the  authors  record  the  complex  medical 
learning  process  that  took  place.  Although  troops  in  both  theaters  had  been  in  combat 
from  the  first  days  of  the  war,  their  lack  of  time  for  preparation  was  reflected  in  the 
early  epidemics  that  weakened  both  the  defenders  of  Bataan  and  the  conquerors  of 
Guadalcanal  and  Papua.  Hard-won  mastery  of  preventive  medicine  and  amphibious 
medical  organization  contributed  crucially  to  the  later  triumphs  of  American  arms.  In 
all  the  Pacific  theaters,  amphibious  medical  support  was  a  complex  art  that  was 
learned  and  perfected  to  a  great  extent  under  enemy  fire.  In  the  Central  Pacific  Area 
the  treatment  and  evacuation  of  wounded  rather  than  fighting  disease  became  the 
centerpiece  of  medical  activity.  Finally,  medical  personnel  in  the  China-Burma-India 
Theater  devoted  their  efforts  not  only  to  support  of  the  small  American  forces,  but  to 
aiding  the  miserably  ill-equipped  Chinese  armies  and  teaching  the  rudiments  of 
medicine  to  young  Chinese  officers. 

Although  care  of  American  and  Allied  forces  grew  ever  more  sophisticated, 
medical  support  for  guerrillas  and  prisoners  of  war  continued  to  be  primitive  in  many 
respects.  Care  of  civilians  injured  in  the  fighting  gradually  improved,  however, 
leading  to  the  successful  efforts  of  the  postwar  military  government  in  Japan  to 
suppress  disease  among  former  enemies,  preserve  life,  and  provide  for  the  victims  of 
the  atomic  bombs. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  The  organization  of  a  theater  medical  service  in  j  oint  and  combined  commands 
(Chs.  II,  III,  VII,  XI,  XIII). 

2.  Medical  interaction  with  Allied  civil  health  authorities  in  wartime  (Chs.  II,  VII, 
X,  XII). 

3 .  The  organization  of  medical  support  for  operations  in  primitive  regions  (Chs. 
IV,  VI,  IX). 

4.  Medical  support  of  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  IV,  V,  VI,  X). 

5.  Medical  support  of  guerrilla  bands  (Ch.  XI). 

6.  The  provision  of  medical  care  for  conquered  populations  (Ch.  XIII). 

7.  Medical  consequences  of  a  nuclear  attack  (Ch.  XIII). 

THE  ORDNANCE  DEPARTMENT:  PLANNING  MUNITIONS  FOR  WAR. 

By  Constance  McLaughlin  Green,  Harry  C.  Thomson,  and  Peter  C.  Roots.  (1955, 
1970,  1990;  542  pages,  14  tables,  18  charts,  54  illustrations,  bibliographical  note, 
glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  10-9.) 

This  first  volume  includes  background  material,  reaching  from  the  early  nine¬ 
teenth  century  to  the  outbreak  of  war  in  Europe  in  1 93  9  (Chs.  I— III).  The  research  and 
development  programs,  1 9 1 9  to  1 93  9,  receive  special  attention  because  of  their  direct 
effect  upon  much  of  the  later  work.  The  main  emphasis  of  the  book  nevertheless  falls 
upon  the  period  1939  to  1945. 

While  endeavoring  to  examine  dispassionately  the  attitudes  of  other  agencies 
within  and  outside  the  Army,  the  authors  present  the  story  chiefly  from  the  point  of 
view  of  the  Ordnance  Department.  Chapter  III  gives  a  brief  account  of  the  financing 


114 


READER'S  GUIDE 


of  the  department’s  activities  before  and  during  World  War  II  in  order  to  put  the 
discussion  of  policies  and  procedures,  accomplishments  and  failures,  into  a  meaning¬ 
ful  setting.  It  includes  a  rapid  survey  of  the  consequences  of  lend-lease,  supplemental 
to  the  data  in  Global  Logistics  and  Strategy.  Chapter  IV  highlights  the  framework 
within  which  the  department  worked,  the  organization  created  by  the  two  wartime 
Chiefs  of  Ordnance,  and  the  revisions  demanded  by  Army  reorganization  and  the 
appearance  of  new  civilian  agencies;  it  also  explains  not  only  the  major  organizational 
features  but  also  the  philosophy  underlying  them  and  the  sources  of  conflict  between 
the  Ordnance  Department  and  other  agencies.  Two  subsequent  chapters  (V  and  VI) 
cover  recruitment  and  training  of  personnel  to  carry  on  the  expanded  tasks  of  the 
department.  The  rest  of  the  volume  deals  with  research  and  development  problems. 

Much  of  the  section  on  research  and  development  contains  a  discussion  of 
particular  items  developed  to  meet  particular  military  needs.  It  focuses  therefore  on 
the  problem  of  translating  combat  requirements  into  feasible  “development  require¬ 
ments”  and  the  steps  the  Ordnance  Department  took  to  satisfy  them.  Hence  the 
chapters  on  ordnance  for  ground  warfare  (X-XIII)  deal  with  the  development  of 
equipment  designed  to  embody  all  three  desiderata  of  modem  warfare:  the  greatest 
possible  mobility,  maximum  firepower,  and  utmost  protection  for  troops.  A  chapter 
(XIV)  on  weapons  for  ground  defense  against  aerial  attack  constitutes  the  bridge 
between  the  data  on  ground  and  air  equipment,  while  Chapters  XV  through  XVII  on 
aircraft  armament  analyze  the  characteristics  of  adequate  airborne  weapons  and  the 
work  of  the  Ordnance  Department  in  endeavoring  to  develop  suitable  airborne  guns, 
rockets,  and  bombs.  Comparisons  with  German  concepts,  methods,  and  results  throw 
added  light  on  much  of  the  American  research  and  development  program.  Finally,  in 
Chapter  XVIII,  exploration  of  the  difficulties  resulting  from  the  shortage  of  strategi¬ 
cally  important  raw  materials  and  description  of  the  means  devised  to  conserve  them 
further  explain  ordnance  quandaries. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Relations  between  the  Ordnance  Department  and  higher  echelons  of  the  War 
Department,  other  technical  services,  and  civilian  research  agencies  (Ch.  IV,  VIII). 

2.  Decentralization  versus  centralized  control  of  ordnance  activities  (Ch.  IV). 

3 .  Problems  of  the  ordnance  training  program  (Chs.  V,  VI). 

4.  The  relationship  of  doctrine  of  tactical  use  to  the  development  of  new  weapons 
(Ch.  IX). 

5.  The  role  of  technical  intelligence  and  exchange  of  scientific  data  with  Allied 
nations  (Chs.  VII,  IX). 

6.  The  time  lag  between  completion  of  an  experimental  weapon  and  its  employ¬ 
ment  in  combat:  German  and  American  views  on  “battle-testing”  (Ch.  IX). 

7.  Armor  and  firepower  versus  lightness,  maneuverability,  and  numbers:  the  tank 
controversy  (see  Index:  “Tanks”). 

8.  For  other  ordnance  items,  see  index  listings  for  particular  types  of  materiel. 

THE  ORDNANCE  DEPARTMENT:  PROCUREMENT  AND  SUPPLY.  By 

Harry C.  Thomson  and  Lida  Mayo \\960, 1980, 1991;  504 pages, 24 tables, 2 charts, 
52  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  10-10.) 


THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES 


115 


This  volume  fits  the  activities  of  the  Ordnance  Department  into  the  larger  pictures 
of  procurement  and  supply  to  be  found  in  The  Army  and  Economic  Mobilization  and 
the  two  volumes  on  Global  Logistics  and  Strategy.  The  story  focuses  on  the  particular 
items  that  ordnance  officers  were  tasked  to  procure  and  supply:  artillery  and  small 
arms,  and  ammunition  for  both;  fire-control  instruments;  combat  vehicles,  including 
the  tank;  the  transport  vehicles  that  put  the  Army  and  its  supplies  on  motor-driven 
wheels;  and  spare  parts  and  maintenance  for  all  of  these.  How  it  provided  and 
maintained  such  vital  instruments  of  war  is  of  interest  to  all  who  depended  on  them 
for  effectiveness  in  combat,  and  not  less  so  to  employers  and  employees  in  the  great 
American  industries,  such  as  the  automotive,  whose  plants  and  skills  the  Army  drew 
into  its  service  to  aid  in  producing  these  instruments. 

This  volume  complements  Planning  Munitions  for  War,  which  describes  the 
development  of  Ordnance  Department  weapons.  The  section  on  procurement  in  the 
present  volume  centers  on  the  department’s  Industrial  Division,  the  manufacturing 
arsenals,  and  the  district  offices;  the  section  dealing  with  supply  concentrates  on  the 
Field  Service  Division  and  the  depots  and  changes  in  the  depot  system  introduced  to 
improve  delivery  all  over  the  globe  of  the  right  kinds  of  munitions  in  the  right 
quantities. 

At  the  outset  the  authors  describe  the  problems  of  the  department  in  launching  the 
munitions  program  of  1940  and  in  the  basic  task  of  computing  requirements.  They 
examine  the  need  for  new  construction,  both  of  depot  and  manufacturing  facilities,  as 
a  factor  in  lengthening  the  gap  between  the  decision  to  rearm  and  readiness  to  deploy 
adequately  armed  combat  forces.  They  give  full  weight  to  the  strong  ties  developed 
over  the  years  between  the  Ordnance  Department  and  industry  through  the  procure¬ 
ment  districts,  the  manufacturing  arsenals,  and  the  Army  Ordnance  Association  and 
describe,  in  nontechnical  language,  wartime  manufacturing  methods  and  new  tech¬ 
niques  of  production.  In  a  succession  of  “commodity  chapters”  the  volume  explores 
the  most  serious  problems  that  the  department  had  to  overcome  in  procuring  or 
producing  a  class  of  equipment,  such  as  artillery,  tanks,  ammunition  of  various  types, 
and  vehicles,  repeatedly  emphasizing  the  critical  importance  of  machine  tools  for  the 
production  of  fighting  equipment.  The  rest  of  the  volume  tells  how  the  department 
stored  and  distributed  the  enormous  quantities  and  varieties  of  munitions  produced 
and  gives  particular  attention  to  problems  of  cataloging  and  stock  control. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Requirements  and  the  difficulties  attending  the  establishment  of  firm,  long- 
range  production  objectives  (Ch.  IV). 

2.  The  Ordnance  Department’s  experience  with  conflicting  demands  for  mass 
production  and  for  improvements  in  design  (Chs.  V-XI). 

3 .  Arsenals :  their  role  as  repositories  of  production  knowledge  and  as  centers  for 
overhaul  and  modification  of  materiel  in  storage  (Chs.  V-IX). 

4.  Ordnance  experience  with  the  problem  of  spare  parts,  especially  for  tanks  and 
trucks  (Ch.  XIII). 

5.  Measures  to  regulate  and  speed  up  the  movement  of  ordnance  from  factory  to 
depot  to  troops  (Chs.  XVII,  XVIII). 

6.  Devices,  such  as  standardization  of  nomenclature  and  parts  numbering 


116 


READER’S  GUIDE 


(especially  important  for  spare  parts),  stock  control,  and  use  of  electrical  accounting 
machines  in  reporting  depot  stocks,  to  bring  about  more  efficient  stockage  and 
distribution  of  ordnance  materiel  (Chs.  XIX,  XX). 

7.  The  creation  of  ordnance  troop  units  suitable  for  supply,  repair,  and  preventive 
maintenance  and  the  problem  of  working  out  effective  management  of  maintenance 
shops  in  the  zone  of  interior  through  the  service  command  system  set  up  by  the  Army 
Service  Forces  (Ch.  XXII). 

THE  ORDNANCE  DEPARTMENT:  ON  BEACHHEAD  AND  BATTLE- 
FRONT.  By  Lida  Mayo.  (1968,  1978,  1991;  523  pages,  25  tables,  4  charts,  69 
illustrations,  8  maps,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  10-1 1 .) 

On  Beachhead  and  BattlefrontteMs  the  evolving  story  of  combat  service  support 
for  items  of  ordnance  equipment  and  ammunition.  The  volume  concentrates  on  the 
European,  Mediterranean,  and  Southwest  Pacific  Theaters  of  Operations,  drawing  a 
distinction  among  these  theaters  of  war  and  the  type  of  support  demanded  in  each 
theater  of  operations.  Other  areas,  such  as  the  China-Burma-India  Theater  and  the 
South  Pacific,  Caribbean,  and  Alaska,  are  mentioned  only  in  passing  or  in  how  they 
support  the  main  theaters  of  operations.  The  author  provides  rich  combat  service 
support  contrasts  and  similarities  between  Pacific  and  European  theaters.  Beginning 
with  the  Army ’s  first  offensives  in  Burma,  Papua,  and  North  Africa,  the  narrative  then 
follows  the  invasion  of  Europe  beginning  with  Sicily,  cumulating  in  victory  in 
Europe.  The  story  then  returns  to  the  Pacific  to  describe  the  invasions  of  New  Guinea, 
the  Philippines,  and  Okinawa.  Ordnance  support  for  both  operational  planning  and 
execution  are  the  central  themes. 

The  author  carefully  begins  each  campaign  with  a  brief  military  geographical 
overview,  discusses  the  planning  and  conduct  of  ensuing  operations,  and  then  details 
the  ordnance  combat  service  support  that  was  provided.  Planning  is  first  considered 
and  then  contrasted  with  execution.  In  each  of  the  unfolding  campaigns  the  author 
details  the  units  and  men  conducting  ordnance  support,  drawing  extensively  upon  the 
detailed  ordnance  records  down  to  unit  level  to  give  the  reader  a  sense  of  the  issues 
that  might  otherwise  be  lost. 

The  volume  also  details  the  organizational  concept  of  support,  pointing  out  the 
various  echelons  of  support  in  each  theater,  but  focusing  on  field  army  level  and  the 
support  given  to  subordinate  corps  and  divisions.  In  each  case  units,  commanders, 
planners,  and  soldiers  are  mentioned  with  illustrations  of  their  changing  combat 
circumstance,  and  doctrinal  issues  of  organization,  levels  of  stockage,  command, 
control,  and  communications  are  fully  portrayed.  The  evolving  ordnance  organiza¬ 
tional  concept  of  support  reflected  the  changing  command  and  control  needs  of  the 
various  campaigns.  The  study  thus  contrasts  the  mobility  and  transport  requirements 
for  equipment  coming  into  each  theater  and  the  demands  placed  on  ordnance  support 
under  combat  conditions.  In  each  case  maintenance  support  was  effected  as  far 
forward  as  feasible. 

This  volume  also  evaluates  U.S.  equipment  and  compares  it  to  Axis  equipment, 
not  only  in  quality  and  quantity,  but  the  rapidity  with  which  it  was  fielded.  Further, 


THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES 


117 


by  detailing  each  successive  campaign,  this  volume  accents  the  continued  improvi¬ 
sation  and  imagination  generated  by  ordnance  personnel.  Towed  sleds  behind  tanks 
in  Italy,  hedgerow  cutting  tanks  in  Normandy,  and  barge-mounted  maintenance  shops 
in  the  Philippines,  all  contributed  to  successful  combat  service  supportto  the  frontline 
soldier. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Ammunition  support  to  the  forces  in  the  field  (Chs.  X,  XV,  XIX,  XXI). 

2.  Maintenance  support  in  mud,  snow,  sand,  and  jungle  (Chs.  V,  XXI,  XXIV). 

3.  Preparation  for  invasion  (Ch.  XIII). 

4.  Importance  of  early  realistic  combat  assessment  of  maintenance  and  ammu¬ 
nition  support  (Chs.  X,  XI,  XX). 

5.  Continued  need  for  transportation  by  truck  or  water  with  attendant  need  for 
tires  and  major  assemblies  (Chs.  V,  VII,  XII). 

6.  Continual  equipment  combat  evaluation  and  improvement  through  improvisa¬ 
tion  and  imaginative  replacement  by  new  equipment  (Chs.  XVII,  XXIII). 

THE  QUARTERMASTER  CORPS:  ORGANIZATION,  SUPPLY,  AND  SER¬ 
VICES,  VOLUME  I.  By  Erna  Risch.  (1953,  1987;  418  pages,  11  charts,  25 
illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  10-12.) 

THE  QUARTERMASTER  CORPS:  ORGANIZATION,  SUPPLY,  AND  SER¬ 
VICES,  VOLUME  II.  By  Erna  Risch  and  Chester  L.  Kieffer.  (1955,  1983;  433 
pages,  1 9  tables,  3  charts,  30  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH 
Pub  10-13.) 

A  military  force  is  a  separated  community,  what  sociologists  call  a  “segregative 
community,”  and  in  modem  war  it  becomes  a  huge  one.  An  army  (or  navy)  has  not 
only  to  forge  an  effective  fighting  force  out  of  this  vast  community  and  arm  it,  but  also 
to  feed  and  clothe  it,  and,  in  general,  step  into  the  place  of  a  thousand  private  and  public 
enterprises  that  normally  provide  for  its  daily  human  needs.  The  principal  business 
of  the  Quartermaster  Corps  in  World  War  II  was  to  provide  the  housing,  food,  clothes, 
personal  equipment,  and  fuel  for  a  community  that  numbered,  first  and  last,  between 
eleven  and  twelve  million  men  and  women.  It  also  provided  laundry,  bath,  and  other 
services.  The  corps  became  therefore  at  once  a  bridge  and  a  transforming  agency 
between  the  civilian  economy  and  a  “nation  in  arms”  which  was  soon  deployed 
throughout  the  globe. 

These  two  volumes  show  that  the  Quartermaster  Corps  was  unprepared  for  this 
staggering  task,  partly  because  of  financial  starvation,  partly  from  lack  of  vision  and 
flexibility,  largely  because  of  demands  that  could  not  be  anticipated.  Food  and 
clothing,  for  example,  while  they  had  to  be  standardized  for  mass  procurement,  had 
also  to  be  adapted  and  varied  for  use  in  every  diversity  of  climate  and  terrain. 
Equipment  had  to  be  reduced  in  bulk  since  mobility  of  force  was  at  a  premium  and 
cargo  shipping  was  one  of  the  Allies’  scarcest  resources  throughout  the  war. 

These  volumes  describe  the  vigor,  ingenuity,  and  resourcefulness  with  which  the 
Quartermaster  General  and  his  corps  attacked  a  bewildering  variety  of  tasks  and 


118 


READER'S  GUIDE 


emphasize  failures  as  well  as  successes.  Even  the  most  successful  expedients  were 
often  distasteful  to  the  individual  soldier  who  had  to  endure  dehydrated  vegetables 
and  fruits,  egg  and  milk  powders,  and  similar  prepackaged  edibles.  Improvements 
were  often  slow.  When,  for  example,  GIs  refused  to  use  lemon  powder  except  to  scrub 
floors,  the  Quartermaster  Corps  simply  stopped  having  it  made. 

These  volumes  also  detail  the  cooperation  of  American  industry  with  the  Army 
on  a  vast  scale.  The  Quartermaster  General  engaged  over  two  hundred  firms  in  tasks 
of  research  and  development  and  covered  a  larger  sector  of  the  normal  civilian 
economy  in  procuring  supplies  needed  by  the  Army  than  did  any  other  service. 
Another  major  story  centers  around  the  administration  of  those  supplies.  Essentially, 
the  Quartermaster  Corps  developed  a  commodity-functional  type  of  organization  and 
stock  control  system  to  effect  economy  and  achieve  a  balanced  distribution  of 
supplies.  The  result  is  a  history  of  mass  organization  operating  under  high  pressures, 
capable  of  improvisation,  and  sufficiently  flexible  to  perform  its  huge  task  effectively. 

Both  volumes  describe  the  Quartermaster  Corps  at  work  in  the  zone  of  interior. 
Volume  I,  after  treating  the  reorganization  and  expansion  of  the  corps  at  the  outbreak 
of  war  and  sketching  its  wartime  organization  (Introduction  and  Ch.  I),  deals  with 
research  and  development  (Chs.  II— V),  procurement  and  production  control  (Chs.  VI- 
VIII),  storage  and  warehousing  operations  (Ch.  IX),  and  stock  control  (Ch.  X). 
Volume  II  treats  salvage  and  reclamation  (Chs.  I— II)  and  the  problems  of  industrial 
demobilization  (Ch.  Ill),  and  includes  a  statistical  review  (Ch.  IV)  reflecting  the 
magnitude  and  proportions  of  quartermaster  operations  in  World  War  II.  It  completes 
the  picture  of  zone  of  interior  activities  with  an  account  of  the  recruiting,  assignment, 
and  training  of  quartermaster  personnel  (Chs.  V-IX)  and  of  such  special  services  of 
the  corps  as  the  procurement  of  animals  (Ch.  X),  its  operation  of  laundry  and  dry- 
cleaning  establishments  (Ch.  XI),  and  its  provisions  for  the  care  of  the  dead  (Ch.  XII). 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Forecasting  Army  requirements  (I,  Ch.  VI). 

2.  Requirements  and  procurement  (I,  Chs.  II,  VI). 

3.  Factors  affecting  technical  military  research  in  preparation  for  war  and  in 
wartime  (I,  Chs.  II-V). 

4.  Effects  of  the  1 942  reorganization  of  the  War  Department  on  the  Quartermaster 
Corps  (I,  Ch.  I). 

5.  Streamlining  procurement  procedures  during  the  war  (I,  Ch.  VII). 

6.  Expediting  production  (I,  Ch.  VIII). 

7.  Wartime  expansion  of  storage  facilities  (I,  Ch.  IX). 

8.  Development  of  stock  control  (I,  Ch.  X). 

9.  Conservation  of  supplies  (II,  Ch.  II). 

10.  Contract  termination  (II,  Ch.  III). 

11.  Industrial  demobilization  (II,  Ch.  III). 

12.  The  Quartermaster  General  and  the  Army  Service  Forces  (I,  Ch.  I). 

13.  Army  clothing  development  (I,  Ch.  III). 

14.  Ration  development  (I,  Ch.  V). 

15.  Packaging  and  packing  of  quartermaster  supplies  (I,  Chs.  V,  IX). 

16.  Inspection  of  quartermaster  supplies  (I,  Ch.  VIII). 


THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES 


119 


17.  Use  of  material-handling  equipment  (I,  Ch.  IX). 

1 8.  Mechanizing  the  handling  of  equipment  (I,  Ch.  IX). 

19.  Disposal  of  suiplus  property  (I,  Ch.  X;  II,  Ch.  III). 

20.  Salvage  operations  (II,  Ch.  I). 

2 1 .  Development  and  training  of  quartermaster  units  (II,  Ch.  IX). 

22.  Use  of  dogs  in  war  (II,  Ch.  X). 

23.  Operation  of  Army  laundries  (II,  Ch.  XI). 

24.  Care  of  the  dead  (II,  Ch.  XII). 

THE  QUARTERMASTER  CORPS:  OPERATIONS  IN  THE  WAR  AGAINST 
JAPAN.  By  Alvin  P.  Stauffer.  (1956, 1978, 1990;  358  pages,  3  maps,  29  illustrations, 
bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  10-14.) 

This  book  is  an  analytical  history  of  quartermaster  activities  in  three  great  U.S. 
theater  commands  in  the  war  against  Japan:  the  Southwest  Pacific,  South  Pacific,  and 
Central  Pacific  Areas.  Since  Army  elements  were  most  numerous  in  General 
Mac  Arthur’s  command,  the  Southwest  Pacific  is  treated  at  greater  length  than  the 
others.  But  the  author,  observing  in  general  a  chronological  sequence,  has  linked  the 
diverse  developments  in  the  three  commands. 

The  narrative  includes  the  efforts  of  quartermasters  in  1941  to  equip  the 
Philippine  Army  for  a  hostile  attack,  an  undertaking  largely  frustrated  by  lack  of  time 
and  the  initial  American  strategy  of  meeting  invasion  at  the  beach  line.  This  strategy 
called  for  dispersion  of  stocks  that  had  been  painfully  accumulated  at  depots  that  were 
thus  soon  overrun  and  had  to  be  destroyed  to  avert  capture.  Complementing  The  Fall 
of  the  Philippines,  the  volume  then  recounts  the  ingenious  efforts  on  Bataan  to  stave 
off  starvation  by  fishing,  harvesting  local  rice  crops,  and  slaughtering  carabao  and  the 
brave  but  tragic  attempts  to  break  through  the  strangling  Japanese  blockade  and  bring 
in  food  from  the  southern  Philippines  and  from  Australia  and  the  Dutch  East  Indies. 

The  narrative  then  focuses  on  food-importing  Hawaii.  There  the  Army,  fearing 
a  Japanese  invasion,  gave  the  quartermaster  of  the  Hawaiian  Department  an  extraor¬ 
dinary  role  as  controller  of  civilian  food  supplies.  Hawaii,  New  Zealand,  and 
Australia  were  the  only  land  masses  in  the  Pacific  that  had  been  sufficiently  developed 
to  serve  as  major  bases.  Remoteness  from  the  United  States  and  shipping  shortages 
put  a  premium  on  local  procurement  of  military  necessities  in  the  two  British 
commonwealths,  especially  Australia,  which  became  major  suppliers  of  subsistence 
and  provided  large  quantities  of  other  items. 

The  corps  was  also  confronted  with  extraordinary  difficulties  of  supply  over  the 
long  lines  running  from  depots  in  the  United  States  to  widely  scattered  island  bases 
in  territory  that  lacked  the  basic  facilities  for  storage  and  distribution.  The  author 
describes  how  these  difficulties  were  surmounted  and  troops  on  tiny  atolls  and 
jungleclad  islands  were  supplied,  giving  close  attention  to  interruptions  of  supply  to 
bases  and  troops.  The  volume  includes  an  evaluation  of  the  utility  of  the  various  items 
of  individual  and  organizational  equipment  under  the  exceptional  conditions  of  island 
and  tropical  warfare  and  covers  the  whole  gamut  of  quartermaster  responsibilities  in 
the  field,  from  bakeries,  baths,  laundry,  salvage,  and  graves  registration,  to  the  supply 


120 


READER'S  GUIDE 


of  food  and  clothing. 

Key  topics: 

1.  The  influence  of  logistical  unpreparedness  on  capacity  for  defense  (Luzon) 
(Ch.  I). 

2.  Logistical  planning  for  island  campaigns  (Ch.  X). 

3 .  Relationship  of  military  command  to  the  civilian  population  under  conditions 
of  martial  law  (Hawaii)  (Ch.  II). 

4.  Overseas  supply  mission  and  organization  (Chs.  II— VI). 

5.  Problems  of  local  procurement  in  foreign  lands  (Ch.  V). 

6.  Operations  of  island  supply  bases  (Chs.  IV,  VI,  VII,  VIII). 

7.  Supply  distribution  problems  in  island  warfare  (Chs.  VI,  VII,  VIII). 

8.  Theater  relations  with  the  zone  of  interior  in  supply  matters  (Ch.  VI). 

9.  Automatic  resupply  of  combat  forces  (Ch.  VI). 

10.  Supply  under  operational  conditions  (Chs.  VI,  VIII,  X,  XI). 

1 1 .  Evaluation  of  the  provision  of  personal  services  and  comforts  (Ch.  IX). 

12.  Evaluation  of  items  of  individual  and  organizational  equipment  in  tropical 
combat  (Ch.  XI). 

THE  QUARTERMASTER  CORPS:  OPERATIONS  IN  THE  WAR  AGAIN  ST 
GERMANY.  By  William  F.  Ross  and  Charles  F.  Romanus .  (1965, 1979, 1991;  798 
pages,  21  tables,  4  charts,  3  maps,  39  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossary, 
index,  CMH  Pub  10-15.) 

The  chief  function  of  the  U.S.  Army  Quartermaster  Corps  in  Europe  was  to 
provide  food  and  clothing  for  the  troops.  But  it  was  also  involved  in  such  work  as 
supplying  laundry  and  bath  facilities;  collecting,  identifying,  and  burying  the  dead; 
providing  fuel,  shelter,  and  the  liquor  ration;  supplying  spare  parts  and  salvaging 
useful  items;  handling  captured  enemy  equipment;  and  acting  as  supply  custodian  to 
the  far-flung  civil  affairs  organization.  By  the  spring  of  1945,  the  Quartermaster 
Corps  in  the  Mediterranean  and  European  theaters  was  furnishing  necessities  and 
comforts  to  more  than  seven  and  one-half  million  people,  of  whom  60  percent  were 
Allies,  civilians,  and  prisoners  of  war.  It  was  the  largest  human  support  operation  by 
a  single  organization  to  that  time. 

This  study  emphasizes  the  higher  levels  of  quartermaster  activity  at  different 
periods  of  the  war  against  the  Axis.  In  the  Mediterranean  Theater  of  Operations 
encompassing  North  Africa,  Sicily,  and  Italy,  stress  has  been  placed  on  the  roles  of 
the  corps,  army,  and  base  section  quartermasters,  while  in  the  European  theater  greater 
attention  has  been  given  to  the  problems  of  the  Theater  Chief  Quartermaster.  This 
difference  in  approach  springs  from  differences  between  the  two  theaters.  The 
Mediterranean  theater  evolved  more  slowly,  with  strong  British  involvement.  In  the 
Mediterranean,  moreover,  there  was  greater  influence  upon  operations  by  junior 
logistical  commanders  and  staff  officers  than  in  the  more  elaborate  and  tightly  knit 
theater  organization  to  the  north. 

Dominating  quartermaster  activity  in  the  European  Theater  of  Operations  was 
a  toweringly  energetic  soldier — Maj.  Gen.  Robert  M.  Littlejohn.  His  frustrations. 


THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES 


121 


mistakes,  and  triumphs  in  organizing  supply  for  highly  mechanized  continental 
warfare  and  his  efforts  to  maintain  a  strong  position  with  respect  to  G-4  and  the  other 
technical  services  provide  the  principal  narrative  thread  for  this  volume.  From  the 
moment  of  his  arrival  in  London  in  1942  as  a  key  member  of  the  special  staff  in  the 
Services  of  Supply,  the  history  of  the  quartermaster  support  mission  in  Europe  is 
inseparably  associated  with  the  officer  who  headed  it. 

He  touched  the  cardinal  issues  of  the  day:  the  multifaceted  logistical  planning 
effort  in  England  for  the  great  cross-Channel  attack;  the  crisis  of  “frantic  supply” 
during  the  race  across  France  in  mid- 1944;  the  winter  clothing  and  trench  foot 
controversy  during  the  stalemate  a  few  months  later;  and  the  controversy  over 
prisoner-of-war  rations  amid  the  theater  and  worldwide  food  shortage  in  1945. 
General  Littlejohn’s  last  assignment  in  the  European  theater  was  head  of  the  Graves 
Registration  Command,  an  effort  representing  the  largest  item  of  unfinished  quarter¬ 
master  business  in  the  liberated  countries  as  the  fighting  came  to  a  close. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Forecasting  logistical  requirements  and  developing  logistical  planning  factors 
(Chs.  II,  V,  VI,  VII,  IX,  XI,  XV-XVIII). 

2.  Automatic  and  standard  supply  procedures  (Chs.  IX,  XII). 

3.  Development  of  a  theater  troop  basis  (Chs.  II,  IV,  XI,  XII,  XIV). 

4.  Training  of  logistical  forces  (Chs.  II,  XI,  XIX,  XX). 

5.  “Host”  nation  support  of  logistical  operations  (Chs.  IX,  X). 

6.  Supply  operations  in  pursuit  warfare  and  in  the  retreat  (Chs.  Ill,  IV,  XIII,  XIV, 
XVI,  XVIII). 

7.  Theater  relations  with  the  zone  of  interior  and  the  ports  of  embarkation  on  such 
issues  as  logistical  organization,  supply  requirements,  and  manpower  (Chs.  XII, 
XVI). 

8.  Quartermaster  preparations  for  amphibious  operations  (Chs.  II,  IX,  X,  XI). 

9.  Quartermaster  organization  in  a  combat  zone  (Chs.  Ill,  IV,  XII,  XIII,  XIV). 

1 0.  Local  procurement  of  goods  and  services  (Chs.  II,  V,  VII,  X,  XII,  XV,  XVII). 

1 1 .  Feeding  and  clothing  prisoners  of  war  (Chs.  Ill,  IV,  V,  VII,  XV,  XVII). 

12.  Salvage  operations  in  forward  areas  (Chs.  Ill,  VII,  XX). 

13.  Care  of  the  dead  (Chs.  Ill,  IV,  VIII,  XIX). 

THE  SIGNAL  CORPS:  THE  EMERGENCY  (TO  DECEMBER  1941).  By 

Dulany  Terrett.  (1956,  1986;  383  pages,  37  illustrations,  appendix,  bibliographical 
note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  10-16.) 

THE  SIGNAL  CORPS:  THE  TEST  (DECEMBER  1941  TO  JULY  1943).  By 

George  Raynor  Thompson ,  Dixie  R.  Harris,  Pauline  M.  Oakes ,  and  Dulany  Terrett. 
(1957,  1978;  621  pages,  44  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index, 
CMH  Pub  10-17.) 

THE  SIGNAL  CORPS:  THE  OUTCOME  (MID-1943 THROUGH  1945).  By  George 
Raynor  Thompson  and  Dixie  R.  Harris.  (1966,  1985,  1991;  720  pages,  4  tables,  77 
illustrations,  appendix,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  10-18.) 


122 


READER'S  GUIDE 


During  World  War  II  the  Signal  Corps  provided,  as  it  had  traditionally  done,  both 
strategic  and  tactical  communications.  As  both  a  combat  arm  and  a  technical  service, 
a  status  it  shared  only  with  the  Corps  of  Engineers,  it  was  responsible  for  the  doctrine 
and  equipment  used  by  every  Army  communicator.  Thanks  to  the  technological 
advances  of  the  1920s  and  1930s,  electronic  signals  carried  the  voice  of  command 
from  Washington  to  the  most  distant  theater  of  operations.  Although  FM  radio  had 
been  developed  for  tactical  use  by  the  eve  of  World  War  II,  pigeons  continued  to  roost 
within  the  Signal  Corps’  inventory.  By  1945,  despite  instances  of  heroic  service, 
especially  in  Italy,  their  days  as  Army  communicators  were  numbered.  These  winged 
messengers,  survivors  of  a  simpler  era,  could  not  compete  with  such  electronic 
battlefield  devices  as  the  walkie-talkie.  The  story  of  this  communications  revolution 
is  contained  in  these  three  volumes.  Advances  in  electronics,  especially  radar,  were 
second  in  importance  only  to  that  of  nuclear  fission  as  an  application  of  scientific 
knowledge  to  the  fighting  of  a  technological  war.  However,  in  the  development  of 
many  other  electronic  devices,  such  as  the  proximity  fuze,  Signal  Corps  research 
efforts  were  also  significant. 

Of  the  technical  services,  the  Signal  Corps  was  the  least  prepared  in  1 94 1  for  what 
lay  ahead.  The  War  Department’s  prewar  planning  grossly  underestimated  the 
demands  for  communication  that  the  kind  of  war  in  which  the  United  States  was  about 
to  engage  would  impose.  The  Emergency  examines  this  planning.  It  sketches  the 
growth  of  the  corps  from  its  birth  in  1 860  to  the  outbreak  of  World  War  II  in  Europe 
in  1 939  (Chs.  I— III).  The  narrative  establishes  the  breadth  of  the  corps’  mission  and 
describes  its  organization,  doctrine,  and  programs  of  research  and  development,  since 
all  of  these  deeply  affected  its  activities  in  World  War  II.  The  emphasis  of  the  volume 
is  nonetheless  placed  on  the  events  of  the  period  from  1 939  to  December  1941.  Each 
of  the  main  activities  of  the  corps  is  treated:  research  and  development;  procurement, 
testing,  and  evaluation;  the  storage,  distribution,  and  maintenance  of  devices  and 
systems  of  communication;  and  the  elaborate  training  programs  needed  to  see  that  all 
of  these  activities  were  accomplished  effectively.  Subsequent  volumes  continue  the 
coverage  of  these  areas  during  the  war  years. 

The  Test  begins  when  two  young  Signal  Corps  soldiers  at  their  radar  set  on  Oahu 
detected  the  enemy’s  bombers  winging  their  way  in  to  attack  Pearl  Harbor.  In  the 
months  that  followed,  the  corps  was  almost  overwhelmed  by  the  weight  of  demands 
for  men,  equipment,  and  globe-circling  administrative  communications  systems.  The 
Signal  Corps  nevertheless  ultimately  rose  to  the  challenge,  providing  communica¬ 
tions  of  unprecedented  scope  and  variety.  By  mid- 1 943  the  corps  had  passed  its  first 
major  test  in  the  deserts  of  North  Africa. 

The  Outcome  follows  the  Signal  Corps  through  the  subsequent  theaters  of 
combat:  from  the  assault  landings  in  Sicily  and  Italy;  through  the  hedgerows  of 
France;  to  the  jungles  of  the  CBI  and  the  Southwest  Pacific.  The  second  half  of  the 
volume  is  devoted  to  discussing  such  major  activities  as  electronic  warfare,  signal 
security  and  intelligence,  and  photography.  The  authors  carry  the  Signal  Corps’  story 
past  V-J  Day  to  the  first  attempt  at  space-age  signals.  Project  Diana,  early  in  1946. 

In  communications  as  in  other  areas,  World  War  II  required  enormous  coopera¬ 
tive  effort.  Thus,  the  interaction  between  the  War  Department,  other  military 


THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES 


123 


agencies,  the  Allies,  and  the  civil  communications  industry  loom  large  in  these 
narratives.  Although  conflicts  between  these  groups  are  presented  from  the  stand¬ 
point  of  the  Signal  Corps,  each  volume  has  endeavored  to  do  justice  to  other  points 
of  view  in  examining  and  presenting  the  evidence.  The  last  chapter  of  the  second 
volume  (XVI)  examines  what  was  perhaps  the  most  critical  of  these  controversies,  the 
jurisdictional  conflict  between  the  Chief  Signal  Officer  and  the  Commanding  General 
of  the  Army  Service  Forces  (ASF)  over  the  level  of  command  at  which  control  of 
Army  communications  should  be  exercised.  This  wartime  power  struggle  was 
resolved  in  1946  with  the  dissolution  of  the  ASF,  and  the  Chief  Signal  Officer 
regained  direct  control  over  the  Army’s  communications,  but  the  organizational 
conflict  remained  without  a  solid  solution,  until  the  McNamara  reforms  of  the  1 960s. 

A  useful  feature  of  the  first  and  third  volumes  is  the  appendix  in  which  most  of 
the  Signal  Corps’  World  War  II  equipment  is  listed  and  explained  in  terms  intelligible 
to  a  layman.  The  list  in  volume  III  has  been  modified  to  reflect  the  discontinuance 
of  certain  items. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  The  conflict  between  mass  production  of  instruments  of  war  and  technological 
improvements  (II,  Ch.  XV). 

2.  Industrial  capacity  and  plant  expansion  in  the  communications  industry  (II, 
Chs.  I,  VI,  XV;  III,  Ch.  XII). 

3.  Small  business  contributions  and  subcontracting  (II,  Ch.  XI). 

4.  Extent  and  effect  of  international  aid  (lend-lease)  programs  (II,  Chs.  I,  XV). 

5 .  Materials  shortages  and  conservation  and  substitution  measures  (II,  Ch.  VI;  III, 
Ch.  XII). 

6.  Contract  termination  and  renegotiation  (II,  Ch.  XV;  III,  Ch.  XII). 

7.  Stock  control  and  storage  (II,  Ch.  XV;  III,  Ch.  XIII). 

8.  Expansion  of  storage  facilities  and  development  of  improved  depot  procedures 
(II,  Chs.  VI,  XV;  III,  Ch.  XIII). 

9.  Effect  of  the  1 942  reorganization  of  the  War  Department  on  the  Signal  Corps 
(II,  Chs.  Ill,  XVI). 

1 0.  Prewar  radar  experimentation  in  the  United  States  and  in  foreign  countries  (I, 
Chs.  I,  II,  VII). 

1 1 .  Development  of  the  Army’s  first  radar  sets,  1 937^40  (I,  Chs.  II,  V). 

12.  The  Tizard  Mission  (I,  Ch.  VII). 

13.  Radar  proliferation  and  specialization  (I,  Chs.  VII,  X,  and  App.;  II,  Chs.  Ill, 
IX,  X,  XII;  III,  Ch.  I). 

14.  The  introduction  of  FM  and  crystal  control  into  the  U.S.  Army’s  radio 
communications  (I,  Chs.  VI,  VII;  II,  Ch.  VIII). 

15.  The  dawn  of  space-age  communications  (III,  Ch.  XIX). 

1 6.  Army  photographic  responsibilities,  organization,  and  contributions:  combat 
photography,  V-Mail,  training  films,  still  photography,  photographic  training  (I,  Chs. 
Ill,  IV,  IX;  II,  Ch.  XIII;  III,  Ch.  XVII). 

1 7.  Development  of  the  wartime  aircraft  warning  system  (I,  Chs.  Ill,  VI,  XI;  II, 
Chs.  I,  II,  III,  IV,  V,  VII,  X,  XIV). 

1 8.  Signal  training  and  signal  schools  (I,  Chs.  II,  VI,  VIII;  II,  Chs.  I,  II,  VII,  XI; 


124 


READER'S  GUIDE 


III,  Ch.  XVI). 

1 9.  Manpower  problems  in  the  Signal  Corps,  military  and  civilian  (II,  Chs.  I,  II, 
XI;  III,  Chs.  VII,  XI,  XVI). 

20.  Labor  supply  problems  and  the  Signal  Corps  labor  organization  (II,  Ch.  XV ; 
III,  Ch.  XII). 

2 1 .  Signal  wire  and  radio  equipment  (I,  Chs.  II,  V,  VI,  IX,  and  App.;  II,  Chs.  Ill, 
VIII;  III,  Ch.  XV). 

22.  Signal  radar  equipment:  airborne  and  ground  (I,  Chs.  V,  VI,  VII,  X,  XI,  and 
App.;  II,  Chs.  Ill,  IX,  XI;  III,  Chs.  XIV,  XV,  and  App.). 

23 .  Development  and  use  of  radio  link  (relay)  equipment  in  the  U.S.  Army  (II,  Ch. 
VIII;  III,  Chs.  Ill,  IV,  VIII,  IX). 

24.  Extending  administrative  and  command  communication  facilities  around  the 
world  (I,  Ch.  XI;  II,  Chs.  I,  IV,  V,  X,  XIV;  III,  Chs.  II-IX,  XVIII). 

25.  Alaska  communications  and  the  Alaska  Communications  System  (I,  Ch.  I, 
XI;  II,  Chs.  V,  XIV). 

26.  Pigeon  communications  (I,  Chs.  I,  III,  IX;  II,  Chs.  XII,  XIV ;  III,  Chs.  II,  III). 

27.  Wartime  contracting  and  procurement  organizations  and  procedures  in  the 
Signal  Corps  (II,  Chs.  I,  VI,  XI,  XV;  III,  Ch.  XII). 

28.  Effect  of  patents  and  licensing  agreements  on  wartime  procurement  (II,  Ch. 

XI). 

29.  Spare  parts  supply  (II,  Ch.  XI;  III,  Chs.  V,  XIII). 

30.  Inspecting  signal  supplies:  organization,  procedures,  and  problems  (II,  Chs. 
VI,  XV;  III,  Ch.  XII). 

3 1 .  Packing  and  packaging,  waterproofing,  and  tropicalization  of  signal  supplies 
(II,  Ch.  XV;  III,  Chs.  VII,  XII). 

32.  Relations  with  and  support  of  the  Army  Air  Forces  (I,  Ch.  X;  II,  Chs.  Ill,  VIII, 

IX,  X,  XVI;  III,  Chs.  VII,  XIV,  XV,  XVIII). 

33.  Signal  intelligence,  security,  and  countermeasures  (II,  Chs.  VII,  XIV ;  III,  Chs. 

X,  XI). 


THE  TRANSPORTATION  CORPS:  RESPONSIBILITIES,  ORGANIZATION, 
AND  OPERATIONS.  By  Chester  Wardlow.  (1951, 1980;  454  pages,  12  tables,  7 
charts,  28  illustrations,  4  appendixes,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH 
Pub  10-19.) 

The  movement  of  men  and  supplies,  en  masse,  over  great  distances  became  in 
World  War  II  one  of  the  most  vital  military  interests  of  the  powers  engaged, 
particularly  of  the  Western  Allies.  Movement  overseas,  in  particular,  presented  them 
with  problems  whose  solution  spelled  the  difference  between  failure  and  success  in 
defeating  the  Axis  powers.  This  and  the  two  succeeding  volumes  on  the  Army’s 
Transportation  Corps  are  written  with  an  awareness  of  the  importance  of  effective 
transportation  in  bringing  to  bear  the  power  of  the  U.S.  Army  and  in  delivering 
military  supplies  to  the  British  Commonwealth,  the  USSR,  and  China,  where  and 
when  needed  to  carry  out  the  strategic  plans  of  the  Allies. 


THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES 


125 


The  Transportation  Corps  was  created  after  the  United  States  entered  the  war  to 
overwatch  the  Army’s  interest  in  these  matters  and  to  provide  the  facilities  required 
to  move  its  men  and  supplies.  As  the  youngest  of  the  seven  “technical  services” 
brought  together  under  the  control  of  General  Somervell’s  Army  Service  Forces  in 
March  1 942,  the  corps  was  responsible  for  obtaining  the  Army  ’  s  share  in  the  services 
of  common  carriers  in  the  United  States  (by  rail,  highway,  and  inland  waterways)  and 
in  shipping  on  the  high  seas.  It  also  supervised  the  great  system  of  ports  of 
embarkation;  organized  and  operated  the  rail  and  truck  transportation  the  Army 
developed  to  supplement  these  services;  and  assembled  and  administered,  loaded  and 
unloaded  the  Army’s  fleet  of  troopships,  hospital  ships,  and  freighters. 

This  volume  covers  antecedents  and  origins  of  the  corps;  the  difficulties  over¬ 
come  in  constituting  this  latecomer  among  the  Army’s  services  and  rendering  it 
efficient;  its  internal  organization  in  Washington  and  in  the  field;  its  relations  with 
other  elements  in  the  Army  Service  Forces  and  the  overseas  commands  of  the  Army; 
and  the  measures  adopted  to  ensure  economy  and  efficiency  in  the  use  of  ports  and 
ships.  Also  treated  are  its  cooperation  and  conflicts  with  the  Navy,  the  Interstate 
Commerce  Commission,  the  Office  of  Defense  Transportation,  the  War  Shipping 
Administration,  and  the  British  Ministry  of  War  Transport. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Transportation  as  a  factor  in  strategic  planning  (Ch.  I). 

2.  The  shipping  crisis  in  World  War  II  and  the  Army’s  measures  to  meet  it  (Chs. 
V,  VI,  VIII). 

3.  Wartime  relations  of  military  and  civilian  agencies  (Ch.  VI,  IX,  XI). 

4.  Adaptation  and  conversion  of  peacetime  public  services  to  war  use  (Chs.  V, 
VIII,  IX). 

5.  Relationship  of  the  technical  services  to  the  Army  Service  Forces  (Ch.  III). 

6.  The  American  shipbuilding  achievement  (Ch.  V). 

7.  The  special  position  given  the  Army  Air  Forces  in  the  transportation  field  (Ch. 

III). 

8.  The  cost  of  delayed  planning  to  meet  the  Army ’s  transportation  needs  (Chs.  II, 
III). 

9.  Wartime  organization: 

a.  Office  of  the  Chief  of  Transportation  (Ch.  III). 

b.  Field  establishments  of  the  Transportation  Corps  (Ch.  IV). 

10.  Control  of  port  utilization  and  ship  employment  (Chs.  IV,  V,  VIII). 

1 1 .  The  operation  of  the  Army’s  wartime  fleet  and  ports  (Chs.  VII,  VIII). 

12.  The  Transportation  Corps  and  the  Navy  (Ch.  VI). 

1 3 .  The  Army’s  wartime  relationship  with  the  railroads  and  other  inland  carriers 
(Ch.  IX). 

14.  The  Army’s  own  carriers  and  their  administration  (Ch.  X). 


THE  TRANSPORTATION  CORPS:  MOVEMENTS,  TRAINING,  AND  SUP¬ 
PLY.  By  Chester  Wardlow.  (1956, 1978, 1990;  564  pages,  40  tables,  12  charts,  59 
illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  10-20.) 


126 


READER'S  GUIDE 


This  volume  deals  extensively  with  movement,  the  heart  of  the  Transportation 
Corps  mission.  The  narrative  focuses  on  the  massive  movements  of  men  and  materiel 
within  the  zone  of  interior  and  between  the  United  States  and  overseas  theaters  of 
operations. 

In  meeting  its  responsibilities  in  the  zone  of  interior  the  corps  was  drawn  into 
active  relationships  with  the  common  carriers  of  the  United  States  by  rail,  highway, 
and  waterway  and  with  the  civilian  Director  of  Defense  Transportation,  in  the  effort 
to  ensure  proper  handling  of  essential  civilian  traffic  as  well  as  extraordinary  military 
demands,  since  nonmilitary  traffic  was  also  greatly  increased  by  the  war.  The  author 
also  deals  with  the  problems  of  the  Chief  of  Transportation  in  providing  shipping 
capacity,  the  most  needed  and  scarcest  logistical  requirement  of  the  war,  to  move 
troops  and  supplies  to  the  overseas  theaters  of  operations.  This  responsibility  required 
collaboration  with  the  U.S.  Maritime  Commission,  the  War  Shipping  Administra¬ 
tion,  and  the  British  Ministry  of  War  Transportation,  under  direction  of  the  Joint  and 
Combined  Chiefs  of  Staff.  In  examining  these  relationships  the  author  particularizes 
the  role  of  the  Chief  of  Transportation  and  his  corps  in  the  broader  picture  presented 
in  the  volumes  on  Global  Logistics  and  Strategy. 

The  work  takes  up  the  conflicts  of  jurisdiction,  common  to  all  the  technical 
services,  which  the  Chief  of  Transportation  had  with  Headquarters,  Army  Service 
Forces,  over  the  issue  of  centralization  of  function  and  control.  Also  treated  are 
disputes  with  the  Army  Air  Forces,  since  the  exemption  of  air  transport  from  the 
control  of  the  Transportation  Corps  made  it  more  difficult  for  it  to  ensure  prompt  and 
uninterrupted  deliveries  and  to  enforce  traffic  priorities. 

In  the  training  and  timely  deployment  of  specialist  officers  and  troops  the  Chief 
of  Transportation  had  special  difficulties  since  neither  his  office  nor  the  corps  had 
been  established  until  three  months  after  Pearl  Harbor.  The  effect  of  this  late  start  on 
training  and  procurement  was  never  fully  overcome. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Limitations  on  the  supply  of  transportation  equipment  and  its  mobilization  for 
wartime  use  (Chs.  I,  III,  IV). 

2.  Collaboration  of  the  Army  and  the  railways  in  wartime  (Chs.  I,  III,  IV,  VIII). 

3.  Operation  of  ports  of  embarkation  and  debarkation  (Chs.  II,  III,  V). 

4.  Control  of  the  flow  of  military  freight  traffic  in  the  United  States  (Chs.  IV,  V, 
VIII). 

5.  Conflict  of  military  and  civilian  interests  (Chs.  II,  III,  IV,  VIII). 

6.  Inter-Allied  shipping  control  (Ch.  II). 

7.  International  aid;  lend-lease  (Ch.  III). 

8.  Security  problems  in  wartime  (Chs.  I,  II,  V). 

9.  Operation  of  special  troop  trains  (Ch.  I). 

10.  Transportation  problems  involved  in  furlough  travel  (Ch.  I). 

1 1 .  Staging  areas  and  troop  staging  at  ports  of  embarkation  (Chs.  II,  III,  VIII). 

12.  Troopships  and  troopship  administration  (Ch.  II). 

13.  Transportation  of  ammunition  and  explosives  (Ch.  V). 

14.  Transportation  officers,  specialists,  and  troop  units;  requirements  and  training 
(Ch.  VI). 


THE  TECHNICAL  SERVICES 


127 


15.  Transportation  equipment  for  theaters  of  operations:  requirements  and 
procurement  (Ch.  VII). 

16.  Movement  of  military  patients  (Chs.  I,  III). 

1 7.  Handling  of  prisoners  of  war  (Ch.  I). 

18.  Movement  of  soldiers’  dependents  (Ch.  III). 

19.  Repatriation  of  war  dead  (Ch.  III). 

20.  Maintenance  and  spare  parts  (Ch.  VII). 

21.  Research  and  development  (Chs.  VII,  VIII). 

22.  Mounting  of  amphibious  assault  forces  (Chs.  II,  V). 

THE  TRANSPORTATION  CORPS:  OPERATIONS  OVERSEAS.  By  Joseph 
Bykofsky  and  Harold  Larson.  (1957,  1972,  1990;  671  pages,  3  tables,  7  charts,  12 
maps,  17  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  10-21.) 

Operations  Overseas  treats  the  role  of  the  corps  in  providing  transportation  for 
American  forces  and  equipment  overseas  on  a  large  scale,  over  invasion  beaches,  in 
ports,  and  on  internal  lines  of  communications  by  rail,  highway,  and  waterway,  since 
indigenous  facilities  were  in  most  cases  inadequate.  Employment  of  local  manpower 
and  facilities  was  indispensable,  and  the  authors  describe  the  problems  of  language, 
labor  relations,  pilferage,  safety,  and  military  security  that  the  corps  had  to  meet  under 
widely  diverse  conditions  around  the  globe.  Given  a  shortage  of  trained  American 
transportation  personnel,  it  had  often  to  rely  on  untrained  service  and  combat  troops, 
while  its  problems  were  multiplied  by  the  scarcity  of  base  and  storage  facilities  in  the 
Pacific,  North  Africa,  and  the  Aleutians;  by  the  widespread  destruction  of  ports  and 
railroads  in  Europe;  and  by  long  and  unsatisfactory  lines  of  communications  in  North 
Africa  and  Iran  and  in  the  China-Burma-India  Theater.  Its  operations  were  also 
hampered  by  the  tendency  of  overseas  commands  to  use  oceangoing  vessels  as 
floating  warehouses,  which,  for  example,  created  massive  shipping  tie-ups  off  the 
coast  of  Normandy  and  in  the  Pacific.  In  Europe  the  corps  had  to  meet  the  crisis  that 
arose  from  inadequate  provision  of  heavy  motor  transport  equipment  and  drivers  in 
planning  for  the  invasion  of  the  Continent  in  1 944,  a  deficiency  that  had  grave  effects 
after  the  breakout  at  St.  Lo  when  the  rapidly  advancing  American  armies  outdistanced 
their  supply. 

Key  topics: 

1.  Railways  as  bulk  carriers  in  support  of  military  operations  in  North  Africa, 
Sicily,  and  Italy  (Chs.  IV,  V);  in  northwestern  Europe  (Chs.  VI,  VII,  VIII);  in  the 
Philippines  (Ch.  X);  in  Iran  (Ch.  IX);  in  Alaska  and  western  Canada  (Ch.  II);  and  in 
India  and  Burma  (Ch.  XII). 

2.  Use  of  inland  waterways  to  augment  available  means  of  transport  (Chs.  II,  VIII, 
IX,  XII). 

3 .  Inter-Allied  planning  and  coordination  of  movements  in  theaters,  particularly 
in  connection  with  the  buildup  of  U.S.  forces  in  Britain  (Ch.  Ill);  the  conduct  of 
operations  in  the  Mediterranean  (Chs.  IV,  V);  and  the  planning  and  execution  of  the 
cross-Channel  invasion  (Chs.  X,  XI). 

4.  Utilization  of  indigenous  manpower  and  facilities,  especially  in  the  United 


128 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Kingdom  (Ch.  Ill);  the  Mediterranean  (Chs.  IV,  V);  northwestern  Europe  (Chs.  VI, 
VII,  VIII);  Iran  (Ch.  IX);  Australia  (Ch.  X);  India  and  China  (Ch.  XII). 

5.  Control  of  shipping  in  unified  commands  (SWPA  and  POA)  dependent 
primarily  on  water  transportation  (Chs.  X,  XI). 

6.  Over-the-beach  operations  of  supply  in  the  Aleutians  (Ch.  II);  the  Mediterra¬ 
nean  (Chs.  IV,  V);  France  (Ch.  VI);  and  the  Pacific  (Chs.  X,  XI). 

7.  The  role  of  motor  transport  in  providing  flexible  support  for  advancing  armies 
(Chs.  II,  IV-X,  XII). 

8.  Animal  transport  in  Sicily  and  Italy  (Ch.  V). 


Special  Studies 


Special  Studies 


The  nine  volumes  comprising  the  special  studies  topics  are  grouped  together  here 
because  they  do  not  easily  fit  into  any  previously  covered  subseries.  However,  the 
reader  will  find  in  them  a  wealth  of  information  on  topics  that  would  have  profound 
effects  on  a  postwar  society,  from  the  birth  of  the  American  military  industrial 
complex  (Buying  Aircraft)  to  social  issues  (Women ’s  Army  Corps  and  The  Employ¬ 
ment  of  Negro  Troops)  that  have  continued  to  play  a  controversial  role  in  the  history 
of  the  Republic.  Though  not  envisioned  at  the  time,  many  of  the  seeds  of  change 
brought  on  by  the  Second  World  War,  and  which  would  eventually  affect  both  the 
future  military  and  civilian  societies  at  large,  are  covered  in  considerable  detail  in 
these  volumes. 


CHRONOLOGY:  1941-1945.  Compiled  by  MaryH.  Williams.  (1960, 1989;  660 
pages,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  11-1.) 

This  massive  compilation  establishes  the  sequence  of  events  in  World  War  II  from 
the  time  the  first  bombs  fell  on  Pearl  Harbor  on  7  December  1 94 1  until  the  surrender 
of  the  Japanese  aboard  the  USS  Missouri  in  Tokyo  Bay  on  2  September  1945.  A 
reference  work  to  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II,  the  volume  details  the 
tactical  events  of  the  war  day  by  day,  thus  giving  the  reader  a  measure  of  the  scope 
of  global  coalition  warfare  so  that  he  can  begin  to  grasp  the  relationship  of  the 
innumerable  parts  to  the  whole. 

This  volume  emphasizes  the  ground  actions  of  the  U.S.  Army  in  its  various 
operations  in  Africa,  Europe,  the  Middle  East,  Southeast  Asia,  the  Far  East,  the 
Pacific,  and  the  Western  Hemisphere.  Events  are  related  at  the  appropriate  level, 
including  battalion  and  lesser  units  as  well  as  regiment,  division,  corps,  army,  and 
army  group.  In  addition,  the  combat  actions  of  Army,  Air,  Navy,  and  Marine  Corps 
units  and  of  British,  French,  Soviet,  and  other  Allied  armed  forces,  as  well  as  those 
of  the  enemy,  are  given  in  as  much  detail  as  space  limitations  allow.  General  events 
of  historical  import  also  appear  in  their  proper  places. 

The  value  of  this  well-indexed  book  is  twofold.  In  one  volume  the  general  reader 
and  the  student  of  military  history  have  a  ready  reference  to  the  whole  war  during  that 
period  in  which  the  United  States  participated  and  can  quickly  check  individual  facts 
and  dates.  In  addition,  they  are  able  to  observe  at  a  glance  the  progress  of  the  combat 
operations  on  a  global  level  for  any  given  day  or  follow  the  progress  of  a  single  unit 
day  by  day  to  the  conclusion  of  a  specific  campaign. 


132 


READER'S  GUIDE 


BUYING  AIRCRAFT:  MATERIEL  PROCUREMENT  FOR  THE  ARMY  AIR 
FORCES.  By  Irving  Brinton  Holley,  jr.  (1964, 1989;  643  pages,  23  tables,  9  charts, 
36  illustrations,  3  appendixes,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  1 1-2.) 

In  the  last  chapter  of  Buying  Aircraft,  I.  B.  Holley,  jr.,  concludes  that  the  process 
of  procuring  aircraft  for  the  U.S.  Army  Air  Forces  during  World  War  II  was  as  much 
a  weapon  of  war  as  the  fighters,  bombers,  and  guns  procured.  The  author  ’  s  special  ized 
study  of  aircraft  procurement  bridges  the  gap  between  the  larger  volumes  on  industrial 
mobilization  and  wartime  production,  such  as  The  Army  and  Economic  Mobilization 
and  The  Army  and  Industrial  Manpower,  and  the  various  volumes  in  The  Technical 
Services  subseries  that  focus  on  the  detailed  research,  development,  and  procurement 
of  military  materiel  for  the  specific  combat  and  service  components  of  the  War 
Department. 

The  long  years  of  modest  aircraft  procurements  for  the  Army  Air  Service  and  Air 
Corps  between  the  wars  adversely  affected  the  growth  of  the  American  airframe, 
engine,  and  components  manufacturing  industry  and  discouraged  the  development  of 
assembly  line  production  methods.  The  Air  Corps  Act  of  1 926  further  exaggerated 
problems  by  mandating  a  set  of  restrictive  procedures  that  governed  military  aircraft 
procurement  in  the  following  years.  When  President  Franklin  D.  Roosevelt  created 
the  first  of  his  large  aircraft  production  targets  in  November  1938  in  response  to  the 
deteriorating  situation  in  Europe,  existing  Air  Corps  studies  of  industrial  mobilization 
were  inadequate  to  handle  such  a  large  program.  Nevertheless,  the  aircraft  production 
orders  that  were  now  expected  to  flow  encouraged  aircraft  manufacturers  to  begin 
much-needed  plant  expansions,  and  the  outbreak  of  war  in  Europe  in  September  1 939 
accelerated  that  trend  as  foreign  orders  and  Roosevelt’s  emerging  foreign  and  national 
security  policies  stressed  American  preparedness.  The  quick  defeat  of  Poland,  the 
sudden  collapse  of  France,  and  the  ensuing  isolation  of  Great  Britain  created  a  sense 
of  national  emergency  and  spurred  congressional  action  that  finally  removed  the 
procurement  restrictions  in  1 94CM- 1 . 

The  leaders  of  the  Air  Corps  struggled  from  1 939  until  Pearl  Harbor  to  resolve  its 
key  aircraft  procurement  problems,  among  them  how  to  define  actual  requirements  for 
air  weapons  and  spares  without  an  accepted  air  doctrine  and  reliable  attrition  figures 
for  air  combat.  Moreover,  the  evolving  U.S.  economic  mobilization  and  war 
production  structure  provided  other  variables  that  complicated  Air  Corps  procure¬ 
ment  planning  and  procedures.  The  final  form  of  aircraft  production  planning 
emerged  only  in  late  1942  under  the  War  Production  Board  (WPB)  and  its  various 
aircraft  production  sections  and  the  Joint  Aircraft  Committee  and  its  subordinate  Air 
Service  Unit  at  Wright  Field,  Ohio. 

Central  to  the  success  of  wartime  aircraft  production  was  the  development  of  new 
plant  capacity  through  expansion  of  existing  facilities  and  the  building  of  entirely  new 
aircraft  plants.  After  much  discussion  between  the  government  and  aircraft  industry, 
most  new  capacity  was  completed  during  1 94 1  -43  under  the  auspices  of  the  Defense 
Plant  Corporation  which  built  government-owned  production  and  assembly  facilities 
for  operation  by  the  aircraft  and  also  automobile  manufacturers.  The  large  automobile 
companies,  which  specialized  in  assembly  line  mass  production,  approached  produc- 


SPECIAL  STUDIES 


133 


tion  problems  much  differently  than  the  aircraft  manufacturers  who  were  accustomed 
to  job  shop  production  relying  on  highly  skilled  workers.  Production  of  B-24s  at 
Ford's  newly  built  Willow  Run,  Michigan,  facility  tested  the  automobile  industry’s 
approach  to  aircraft  production  using  special  tooling,  subassemblies,  and  semiskilled 
labor.  Modification  centers  were  established  to  make  changes  and  improvements  in 
production  line  aircraft  so  that  serial  production  would  not  be  disrupted. 

Successful  aircraft  procurement  depended  heavily  upon  the  contracting  process 
and  the  subsequent  administration  of  the  contracts.  During  the  war  the  Army  Air 
Forces  constantly  revised  its  air  materiel  procurement  organization  and  procedures. 
Procedures  for  negotiating  and  administering  various  types  of  contracts  changed  as 
experience  was  gained  in  thousands  of  large  and  small  procurements.  The  author 
rightly  devotes  significant  coverage  to  the  mundane  but  critically  important  aspects 
of  contract  negotiation  and  administration  and  the  hard  lessons  learned  in  aircraft 
procurement  and  production  during  the  war. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  The  effect  of  congressionally  mandated  prewar  procurement  limitations  on  the 
development  of  an  efficient  aircraft  industry  that  could  provide  a  ready  wartime 
productive  capacity  (Chs.  II— VII). 

2.  The  importance  of  prewar  mobilization  planning  for  effective  industrial 
mobilization  (Chs.  II,  V-XIII). 

3.  The  problems  faced  in  developing  realistic  prewar  requirements  for  military 
aircraft  procurement  and  production  (Chs.  VII,  X,  XI). 

4.  The  evolution  of  Armv  Air  Corps  and  Air  Forces  organization  for  aircraft 
procurement  (Chs.  IV-VII,  XII,  XIX). 

5 .  The  role  of  the  government  in  developing  the  aircraft  plant  capacity7  required 
to  sustain  the  Allied  war  effort,  such  as  the  role  of  the  Defense  Plant  Corporation,  tax- 
amortization  policies,  and  private  capital  expansion  (Chs.  VI- VII,  XI-XIV). 

6.  The  role  of  the  automobile  industry  in  manufacturing  aircraft  during  World 
War  II  (Chs.  VII,  XIV,  XX). 

7.  Development  of  procedures  for  contract  negotiations,  administration,  and 
termination  in  aircraft  procurements  (Chs.  XV-XVIII). 

8.  Use  of  cost-plus-fixed-fee  (CPFF),  fixed-price,  and  price  adjustment  con¬ 
tracts  for  aircraft  procurement  (Chs.  XV-XVII). 

9.  Problems  of  allocation  of  limited  aircraft,  airframe,  engine,  and  component 
production  capacity  between  the  Army  Air  Forces  and  U.S.  Navy  and  within  the  War 
Department  (Chs.  XIX,  XX). 

1 0.  The  roles  of theNational  Defense  Advisory  Commission  (NDAC),  Office  of 
Production  Management  (OPM),  and  War  Production  Board  (WPB)  in  developing 
the  policies  and  procedures  for  organizing,  developing,  and  administering  the  nation  *  s 
productive  capacities  in  general  and  the  aircraft  industry  in  particular  (Chs.  IX-XTV, 
XIX,  XX). 

11.  The  importance  of  President  Franklin  D.  Roosevelt  in  establishing  the 
national  aircraft  production  goals  and  programs  during  the  prewar  years  (Chs.  VII- 
XI). 

12.  Statistics  for  wartime  aircraft  and  engine  production  (Ch.  XX). 


134 


READER’S  GUIDE 


CIVIL  AFFAIRS:  SOLDIERS  BECOME  GOVERNORS.  By  Harry  L.  Coles 
and  Albert K.  Weinberg.  ( 1 964, 1 986;  932  pages,  map,  glossary,  2  indexes,  CMH  Pub 
11-3.) 


As  a  documentary  history,  this  volume  illustrates  the  evolution  of  civil  affairs 
policy  and  practice  in  the  Mediterranean  and  European  Theaters  of  Operations  during 
World  War  II.  It  deals  with  U.S.  Army  and  Anglo- American  planning  and  operations 
in  the  sphere  of  relations  with  civilians  in  certain  liberated  and  conquered  countries 
in  Europe  during  the  war,  prior  to  the  invasion  of  Germany.  Although  the  Army  had 
not  considered  civil  affairs  preparation  essential  prior  to  World  War  II,  during  the  war 
it  created  the  Civil  Affairs  Division  at  the  War  Department  level  to  coordinate  all  civil 
affairs  planning  and  training.  For  the  first  time,  extensive  recruiting  and  training 
programs  were  organized,  and  G-5  (civil  affairs  and  military  government)  staff 
sections  were  added  at  the  theater  army,  corps,  and  division  levels. 

Not  only  did  soldiers  become  the  administrators  of  civilian  life  for  the  Army’s 
immediate  needs,  they  also  became  the  executors,  and  sometimes  the  proposers,  of 
national  and  international  political  policy.  This  broader  role  was  the  result  of  the 
inability  of  the  Allies  to  agree  on  specific  political  aims  until  after  active  hostilities 
were  over,  if  then.  In  this  policy  void,  U.S.  and  British  military  authorities  were  often 
responsible  for  the  gradual  transition  to  a  postwar  national  and  international  order 
with  only  general  guidelines  from  higher  authorities. 

The  materials  presented  in  Part  I,  concerned  with  the  preparatory  and  organiza¬ 
tional  stage,  suggest  that  the  President’s  decision  to  entrust  the  civil  affairs  respon¬ 
sibility  to  the  Army  was  because  civilian  authorities  were  unready  to  undertake  the 
mission.  Documents  in  Part  II  show  the  difficulties  of  fitting  civilian  institutions  into 
the  context  of  battle  and  a  military  framework,  thus  indicating  additional  rationale  for 
leaving  military  authorities  in  exclusive  control.  Part  III  reveals  that,  despite  this 
experience.  Allied  authorities  planning  for  the  liberated  countries  of  northwest 
Europe  still  proposed  to  delegate  civil  affairs  to  indigenous  civilian  authorities, 
insofar  as  was  possible.  Operations  are  dealt  with  in  Part  IV,  which  show  that 
conditions  during  and  immediately  following  hostilities  made  it  necessary  for  the 
Allies  to  render  these  authorities  substantial  assistance  in  the  area  of  civil  affairs.  The 
compilation  of  documents  appear  to  make  it  clear  that  the  issue  of  military-versus- 
civilian  administration  was  far  less  important  than  the  issue  of  military  values  versus 
civil-political  values,  and  it  was  in  the  latter  area  that  the  most  serious  difficulties  arose. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Arguments  over  civilian  or  military  control  of  civil  affairs  (Ch.  I). 

2.  Civilian  civil  affairs  activities  in  French  North  Africa  and  gradual  military 
involvement  (Ch.  II). 

3 .  Creation  of  a  military  organization  to  undertake  civil  affairs  activities  (Chs.  Ill— 
VI). 

4.  Military  govemment/civil  affairs  operations  in  Italy  (Chs.  VII-XXI). 

5.  Planning  for  civil  affairs  operations  in  Europe  (Chs.  XXII-XXIV). 

6.  Military  govemment/civil  affairs  operations  in  western  Europe  (Chs.  XXV- 
XXXII). 


SPECIAL  STUDIES 


135 


THE  EMPLOYMENT  OF  NEGRO  TROOPS.  By  Ulysses  Lee.  (1966,  1986, 
1990;  740  pages,  12  tables,  5  maps,  38  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossary, 
index,  CMH  Pub  1 1-^4.) 

By  the  time  Japan  surrendered  in  1 945,  some  700,000  black  Americans,  almost 
1 0  percent  of  the  total  force,  were  serving  in  segregated  Army  units  throughout  the 
world.  Yet,  as  this  volume  makes  clear,  segregation  presented  insurmountable 
impediments  to  the  efficient  training  and  employment  of  this  significant  segment  of 
U.S.  strength  and  its  debilitating  effect  on  the  morale  of  black  troops  constantly 
threatened  their  usefulness.  A  war  that  began  with  black  Americans  demanding  that 
their  right  to  fight  included  complete  integration  of  black  servicemen  into  the  armed 
forces,  a  prime  aim  of  the  nascent  American  civil  rights  movement. 

The  Employment  of  Negro  Troops  examines  in  detail  the  Army  ’  s  prewar  planning 
for  the  use  of  black  soldiers  that  was  based  on  its  perceptions  of  segregated  troops  in 
World  War  I.  But  its  plans  for  the  carefully  restricted  use  of  a  limited  number  of  black 
soldiers  were  radically  transformed  by  the  great  influx  of  black  draftees  produced  by 
the  nondiscrimination  clause  of  the  Selective  Service  Act  of  1940  and  by  pressures 
brought  to  bear  on  an  administration  generally  disposed  to  accommodate  the  growing 
power  of  the  black  voter.  Much  of  this  pressure  was  focused  on  the  War  Department 
through  the  efforts  of  the  Special  Aide  to  the  Secretary  of  War  on  Negro  Affairs,  Judge 
William  H.  Hastie.  Appropriately  in  a  volume  whose  subject  transcends  the  usual 
considerations  of  military  manpower,  Hastie’ s  demands  are  thoroughly  evaluated  and 
contrasted  with  those  of  his  successors. 

The  volume  also  analyzes  in  detail  the  recruitment  of  blacks,  many  unskilled  and 
undereducated,  and  the  challenge  of  transforming  them  into  soldiers  for  an  Army  that 
for  the  most  part  resisted  their  presence,  questioned  their  competence,  and  clearly 
intended  to  use  almost  all  of  them  as  unskilled  laborers  and  service  troops.  It  also 
examines  the  Army’s  continuing  problem  in  developing  suitable  leaders  for  segre¬ 
gated  units.  Commanders  were  most  often  assigned  because  of  their  supposed 
understanding  of  blacks  (southerners)  or  because  they  had  failed  to  make  the  grade 
elsewhere.  Black  officers,  on  the  other  hand,  were  given  only  limited  command 
responsibility.  Prejudice  and  racial  stereotyping  tended  to  destroy  their  morale  and 
kept  many  from  achieving  their  leadership  potential.  By  midwar,  poor  leadership, 
underutilization,  and  low  morale  had  combined  with  the  severe  discrimination 
suffered  by  black  soldiers  both  in  the  military  and  civilian  community  to  spark 
widespread  racial  violence,  what  the  author  calls  the  “Harvest  of  Disorder.” 

The  task  of  bringing  the  Army  more  closely  into  line  with  its  announced  policy 
of  separate-but-equal  treatment  fell  to  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  John  J.  McCloy, 
operating  through  the  Advisory  Committee  on  Negro  Troop  Policies.  Working 
closely  with  Chief  of  Staff  General  George  C.  Marshall,  McCloy  and  his  committee 
succeeded  in  winning  assignments  for  black  units  in  the  overseas  theaters.  Eventually 
two  black  infantry  divisions  as  well  as  a  number  of  separate  tank,  tank  destroyer,  and 
artillery  battalions  and  combat  support  units  saw  action.  At  the  same  time  the  highly 
publicized  “Tuskegee  Airmen,”  and  other  black  air  units  were  trained  and  deployed 
in  the  war  against  the  Germans.  The  majority  of  black  soldiers,  however,  continued 


136 


READER'S  GUIDE 


to  be  employed  in  service  units  around  the  world,  performing  important  duties  but 
ones  that  tended  to  reinforce  old  stereotypes  about  blacks  as  soldiers. 

The  integration  of  black  infantry  platoons  in  the  divisions  along  the  European 
battlefront  was  important  as  a  sign  of  future  change  and  merits  special  attention  in  this 
volume.  Smashing  a  favorite  segregationist  argument,  the  performance  of  these  units 
was  free  of  any  racial  problems.  Their  competence,  along  with  that  of  thousands  of 
other  black  soldiers,  portended  the  racial  transformation  of  the  Army  into  a  fully 
integrated  force  just  six  years  later. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Army  racial  policies,  1920^45  (Chs.  I,  II). 

2.  Organization  and  training  of  black  troops  (Chs.  V,  IX). 

3.  Racial  violence  in  the  Army  (Chs.  IV,  VIII,  XII,  XV). 

4.  Black  women  in  the  Army  (Ch.  XIV). 

5.  The  deployment  and  operations  of  black  air  units  (Ch.  XVI). 

6.  Physical  fitness  of  minority  soldiers  (Ch.  X). 

7.  Effect  of  morale  on  military  performance  (Ch.  XI). 

8.  Selective  Service  and  military  manpower  policy  (Ch.  XIV). 


MILITARY  RELATIONS  BETWEEN  THE  UNITED  ST ATES  AND  CANADA: 
1939-1945.  By  Stanley  W.  Dziuban.  (1959, 1974, 1990;  432  pages,  7  tables,  1  chart, 
1  map,  14  illustrations,  5  appendixes,  bibliographical  note,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub 
11-5.) 


This  volume  records  the  military  cooperation  between  the  United  States  and 
Canada  during  World  War  II.  Diplomatic  discussions  and  negotiations  figure 
prominently  in  this  record,  not  only  as  the  prelude  and  basis  for  joint  military  plans 
and  efforts,  but  also  in  resolving  a  wide  variety  of  problems  incident  to  those  joint 
efforts  that  had  a  political  impact. 

Originating  when  the  low  ebb  of  British  fortunes  in  the  Battle  of  Britain 
confronted  both  the  United  States  and  Canada  with  what  seemed  an  imminent  threat 
to  an  unprepared  continent,  cooperation  was  at  first  directed  to  preparation  for  a 
coordinated  defensive  deployment  of  forces  and  materiel.  Once  the  safety  of  the 
United  Kingdom  was  assured,  collaboration  largely  took  the  form  of  measures  to 
facilitate  the  use  by  the  United  States  of  the  geographical,  industrial,  and  military 
potential  of  Canada  as  part  of  the  North  American  base  supporting  Allied  efforts  on 
the  battlefronts  of  Europe  and  the  Pacific. 

Pushing  his  study  into  the  postwar  period,  the  author  also  describes  the  “roll-up” 
of  the  extensive  United  States  deployments,  facilities,  and  supply  stockades  in 
Canada.  Hethen  describes  the  revitalization  of  the  wartime  military  cooperation  with 
the  outbreaks  of  the  Cold  War  by  1947. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  Conduct  of  bipartite  international  military  cooperation  by  means  of  a  politico- 
military  board  of  two  coordinate  sections  (Ch.  II). 

2.  Command  structure  requirements,  in  a  framework  of  bilateral  cooperation,  to 


SPECIAL  STUDIES 


137 


assure  adequate  military  responsibility  and  authority  (Chs.  IV,  V,  VII,  VIII). 

3.  Factors  bearing  on  the  defense  of  North  America  in  a  conventional  war  (Ch. 
IV). 

4.  Development  of  strategic  plans  and  deployments  for  joint  defense  of  northern 
North  America  (Chs.  IV,  V). 

5.  Difficulties  attending  the  development  of  military  bases  in  arctic  North 
America  (Chs.  VI,  VII,  VIII). 

6.  Problems — political,  legal,  economic,  and  psychological — incident  to  large- 
scale  deployments  on  friendly  foreign  soil  remote  from  the  combat  zone  (Chs.  VII, 
VIII,  XI). 

7.  Psychological  problems  of  a  big  nation-small  nation  partnership  in  joint 
defense  (Chs.  Ill,  VIII,  XI). 

8 .  Organization,  equipment,  training,  and  employment  of  an  integrated  binational 
force  (the  First  Special  Service  Force)  (Ch.  IX). 

9.  Problems  presented  to  a  host  government  by  the  great  complexity  ofU.S.  Army 
and  Navy  organizational  structure  in  Canada  (Ch.  V). 

10.  Funding,  constructing,  and  operating  base  facilities  for  joint  defense  (Chs. 
VIII,  XI,  XII). 

1 1 .  Friendly  foreign  forces  and  questions  of  civil  and  criminal  jurisdiction  (Ch. 

XI). 

12.  Control  of  air  traffic  and  of  military  bases  by  friendly  foreign  forces  (Ch.  XI). 

13.  Disposition  of  logistical  facilities  constructed  by  friendly  forces  on  foreign 
territory  (Ch.  XII). 

14.  Coordination  of  war  production  and  economic  mobilization  (Ch.  III). 

1 5.  The  Destroyer-Base  Agreement  of  1 940: 

a.  Its  relation  to  the  initiation  of  U.S.-Canadian  military  collaboration  (Ch.  I). 

b.  The  impact  of  the  agreement  and  U.S.-Canadian  military  collaboration  on 
the  relationship  of  Newfoundland  to  the  Dominion  of  Canada  (Chs.  I,  V,  VII). 


REARMING  THE  FRENCH.  By  Marcel  Vigner as.  (1957, 1986, 1989;  444  pages, 
5  tables,  6  charts,  1  map,  45  illustrations,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index, 
CMHPub  1 1-6.) 

This  volume  tells  how  the  French  ground,  naval,  and  air  forces  available  for  use 
against  the  Axis  from  mid- 1 94 1  to  the  end  of  World  War  II  were  rearmed,  trained,  and 
committed  to  combat.  The  narrative  focuses  on  the  part  played  by  the  United  States, 
especially  by  the  War  Department  and  the  U.S.  Army,  since  the  commitment,  while 
shared  with  the  British,  was  largely  American,  and  the  rearmed  units  generally  fought 
as  part  of  larger  American  commands. 

The  undertaking  was  only  one  of  many  such  American  assistance  efforts  and  not 
the  greatest  in  terms  of  the  volume  of  equipment  involved.  More  American  resources, 
for  example,  went  to  the  USSR,  the  United  Kingdom,  and  China  (see  Global  Logistics 
and  Strategy  for  these).  But  in  the  case  of  the  French  the  forces  receiving  aid  were 
emerging  outside  their  national  home  base  and  therefore  lacked  the  logistical  support 


138 


READER'S  GUIDE 


normally  provided  by  a  zone  of  interior.  In  this  and  in  other  respects  the  French  effort 
was  thus  a  unique  experience. 

The  volume ’s  “Prologue”  provides  a  brief  review,  with  pertinent  statistics,  of  the 
assistance  similarly  extended  by  France  to  an  unprepared  America  in  1 9 1 7-1 8.  But  the 
dramatis  personae  of  the  World  War  II  story  are  the  American  President,  the  British 
Prime  Minister,  and  their  civilian  advisers;  the  Joint  and  Combined  Chiefs  of  Staff, 
the  War  Department  General  Staff,  the  Army  Service  Forces,  and  the  agencies  charged 
with  direct  responsibility  for  rearming  and  training  the  French;  and  finally  the  officials 
of  the  French  High  Command  and  French  governmental  authorities. 

The  controversy  over  the  timing  and  extent  of  rearmament,  in  which  the 
American,  British,  and  French  authorities  were  involved  long  before  the  Allied 
landings  in  North  Africa  and  for  months  afterward,  is  one  of  the  major  themes  of  the 
book.  The  author  deals  with  the  establishment  and  implementation  of  the  successive 
rearmament  programs  concurrently  with  the  evolution  of  the  decisions  that  made  them 
possible.  The  programs  aimed  at  rehabilitation  of  the  forces  raised  in  North  Africa 
(Prologue,  Chs.  I— III,  V-VII,  IX)  and  in  metropolitan  France  (Chs.  XVIII-XXI),  and 
included  the  air  force  (Chs.  XII,  XXII),  the  navy  (Chs.  XIII,  XXII),  and  Sovereignty 
and  Territorial  forces  (Chs.  VII,  IX).  The  part  played  by  the  United  States  in  the 
Anglo-American  effort  to  support  the  Resistance  forces  is  also  described  (Ch. 
XVIII). 

Rearming  the  French  also  describes  in  detail  the  organization,  role,  and  activities 
of  the  various  agencies  involved  in  French  rearmament  and  training:  the  Joint 
Rearmament  Committee  (Ch.  XVII),  the  Joint  Air  Commission  (Ch.  XVII),  the 
Rearmament  Division  of  SHAEF  (Ch.  XXIII),  and  the  French  Training  Section  (Chs. 
XVII,  XXIII).  Also  discussed  are  two  major  problems  that  were  a  source  of 
continuing  concern  for  the  Allied  high  command:  the  difficulties  encountered  by  the 
French  in  establishing  a  sound  supply  system  of  their  own  and  the  resultant  persistent 
shortage  of  French  service  troops  (Chs.  VII-X,  XX).  Another  was  the  training  of  the 
rearmed  units  (Chs.  XIV,  XXIII). 

Key  topics: 

1 .  French  political  developments  affecting  the  course  of  rearmament  operations, 
in  particular  the  tug  of  war  between  Giraud  and  de  Gaulle  (Chs.  V,  VI,  IX)  and  the 
Stuttgart  and  north  Italy  incidents  (Ch.  XXI). 

2.  The  part  played  by  rearmed  French  units  in  combat  operations  (Ch.  XI). 

3.  The  abortive  French  attempt  to  organize  and  equip  forces  for  the  liberation  of 
Indochina  (Ch.  XXIV). 

4.  The  effect  of  Franco- American  political  relations  (Ch.  IX). 

5.  The  language  barrier  (Ch.  XIV). 

6.  Differences  in  national  customs,  food  habits,  and  clothing  sizes  (Ch.  XVI). 

7.  Requirements  for  liaison,  armament,  and  training  personnel  (Ch.  XIV). 

8.  Procedures  for  assignment  and  delivery  of  equipment  (Chs.  I,  XX).  (For  a 
treatment  at  greater  length,  see  both  volumes  of  Global  Logistics  and  Strategy.) 

9.  Surplus  stocks  and  equipment  shortages  (Chs.  VIII,  X). 

10.  Control  over  rearmed  units  (Ch.  IX). 

1 1 .  Special  supplies  and  miscellaneous  equipment  (Ch.  XVI). 


SPECIAL  STUDIES 


139 


THREE  BATTLES:  ARNAVILLE,  ALTUZZO,  AND  SCHMIDT.  By  Charles 
B.  MacDonald  and  Sidney  T.  Mathews.  (1952,  1989,  1991;  443  pages,  44  maps,  44 
illustrations,  order  ofbattle,  bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  1 1-7.) 

The  three  engagements  presented  in  this  book  are  described  in  detail  to  illustrate 
the  nature  of  battle  in  Europe  during  World  War  II  at  the  small-unit  level.  They 
supplement  the  campaign  histories  of  the  European  and  Mediterranean  Theaters  of 
Operations  where  the  amount  of  small-unit  material  that  can  be  included  in  a  history 
is  limited  by  the  large  size  of  the  forces  that  have  to  be  followed.  In  these  three  studies 
a  microscope  is  applied,  so  to  speak,  to  actions  which  either  have  been  or  will  be 
related,  minus  the  detail  of  these  presentations,  in  the  campaign  histories  of  those 
theaters. 

The  three  battles  here  described  were  selected  not  for  their  importance  but  for  two 
other  reasons.  One  was  the  availability  of  information,  including  contemporary 
interviews,  which  would  permit  the  author  to  maintain  the  small-unit  level  through 
an  entire  operation  or  to  a  natural  conclusion.  The  other  was  a  desire  for  actions  in 
which  the  role  of  arms  and  services  other  than  infantry  could  be  presented  in  a  variety 
of  tactical  situations.  Each  study  therefore  provides  an  opportunity  to  examine  the 
interplay  of  small  parts  on  an  actual  battlefield. 

The  first  of  the  three,  “River  Crossing  at  Amaville,”  is  an  account  of  two 
attempts  to  establish  bridgeheads  across  the  Moselle  River  near  Metz,  France,  in 
September  1 944 :  one  a  failure,  the  other  a  success.  Two  infantry  regiments  of  the  5th 
Division  and  a  combat  command  of  the  7th  Armored  Division  were  the  major  units 
engaged.  “Break-Through  at  Monte  Altuzzo”  describes  a  successful  but  arduous 
attempt  by  elements  of  a  regiment  of  the  85th  Infantry  Division  to  penetrate  the  Giogo 
Pass  in  the  Appenines,  also  in  September  1944.  “Objective:  Schmidt”  is  primarily 
the  story  of  the  1 12th  Infantry  of  the  28th  Division  in  an  unsuccessful  operation 
against  the  village  of  Schmidt  within  the  Huertgen  Forest  in  Germany  in  1944. 

The  narrative  in  each  case  goes  down  from  regiments,  battalions,  and  companies 
to  platoons,  squads,  and  individuals.  The  story  of  higher  headquarters  and  of  high- 
level  communications  and  decisions  is  related  only  as  necessary  for  an  understanding 
of  the  operations  of  these  lower  units.  Attention  is  focused  on  the  problems  and 
achievements  of  soldiers  and  officers  of  small  units  on  the  battlefield. 

The  tactical  framework  of  the  three  studies  is  varied:  a  river  crossing,  mountain 
warfare,  and  forest  and  village  fighting.  Accounts  are  included  of  most  of  the  normal 
offensive  and  defensive  assignments  to  be  expected  of  infantry  units  under  these 
tactical  conditions.  Detail  is  sufficient  in  text  and  maps  for  study  of  all  three  actions 
as  case  histories  with  little  or  no  recourse  to  additional  material. 

In  addition  to  the  overall  accounts,  fairly  complete  instructional  examples  may  be 
obtained  on  a  number  of  subjects,  including  the  following: 

1 .  Inadequate  intelligence  (Amaville,  Ch.  I;  Altuzzo,  Chs.  I,  II;  Schmidt,  Ch.  III). 

2.  Poor  command  coordination  (Amaville,  Ch.  I;  Altuzzo,  Ch.  II). 

3.  Smoking  operations  to  conceal  bridge-building  activity  (Amaville,  Ch.  III). 

4.  Employment  of  artillery  against  fixed  defensive  works  (Amaville,  Ch.  I). 

5.  Engineers  in  role  of  infantry  (Schmidt,  Chs.  IV-VII). 


140 


READER'S  GUIDE 


6.  Engineer  bridging  operations  (Amaville,  Ch.  III). 

7.  Communications  failures  (Altuzzo,  Ch.  II). 

8.  Erroneous  messages  and  situation  reports  (Altuzzo,  Chs.  I— III;  Schmidt,  Chs. 

v-vi). 

9.  Organization  of  a  deliberate  defensive  position  (German)  (Altuzzo,  Ch.  I). 

10.  Supply  problems  (Amaville,  Ch.  I;  Altuzzo  and  Schmidt,  passim). 

1 1.  Methods  of  counterattack  (German)  (Amaville,  Ch.  I;  Altuzzo,  Chs.  II,  V; 
Schmidt,  Chs.  III-VI). 

12.  Inadequate  security  (Schmidt,  Chs.  II— VI). 

13.  Tanks  and  tank  destroyers  inclose  support  (Amaville,  Chs.  Ill,  IV;  Schmidt, 
Chs.  III-VI). 

14.  Panic  (Amaville,  Ch.  II;  Altuzzo,  Chs.  II,  III;  Schmidt,  Chs.  Ill,  V,  VI). 
Other  general  subject  areas  found  throughout  the  work  include:  morale,  misdi¬ 
rected  artillery  fire,  attempts  by  tactical  air  to  isolate  a  local  battlefield,  close  support 
artillery,  reluctance  of  the  individual  to  fire,  combat  fatigue,  loss  of  direction, 
patrolling,  medical  evacuation,  propaganda  leaflets,  personnel  replacements,  equip¬ 
ment  shortages,  tank-infantry  coordination,  tanks  in  an  antitank  role,  and  employment 
of  armor  under  adverse  conditions  of  weather  and  terrain. 


THE  WOMEN’S  ARMY  CORPS.  By  Mattie  E.  Treadwell.  (1954,  1985,  1991; 
841  pages,  13  tables,  2  charts,  97  illustrations,  5  appendixes,  bibliographical  note, 
glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  1 1-8.) 

This  comprehensive  and  detailed  record  of  the  wartime  Women’s  Army  Corps 
(WAC)  is  the  first  full-dress  official  history  prepared  about  a  corps  of  women  in  the 
military  service  of  any  nation.  Although  the  work  is  pitched  at  the  policy  and  planning 
level,  ratherthan  at  the  hundreds  ofindividual  units  that  made  up  the  WAC,  the  author 
has  managed  to  include  many  samplings  of  the  ordinary  female  soldier’s  routine 
duties  and  reactions — enough  to  give  the  reader  a  real  sense  of  what  life  was  like  for 
a  woman  in  the  Army  and  what  it  was  like  for  the  Army  to  have  women  in  it. 

The  spotlight  is  often  focused  on  WAC  headquarters  and  on  its  wartime  head,  Col. 
Oveta  Culp  Hobby.  Her  efforts  to  make  the  WAC  a  going  and  useful  concern  were 
sometimes  handicapped  by  the  confusion  that  existed  in  the  field  and  on  occasion  even 
in  Washington  about  the  extent  of  her  authority  and  responsibilities  as  Director, 
WAC.  Nevertheless,  the  chronological  account  of  the  establishment  and  conduct  of 
the  W  omen  ’  s  Army  Corps  is  considerably  amplified  by  a  topical  discussion  of  various 
aspects  of  the  Army’s  problems  in  employing  womanpower. 

The  WAC  at  its  peak  strength  of  1 00,000  constituted  an  enviably  large  group  for 
study.  Because  of  its  around-the-clock  control  of  personnel,  the  Army  had  access  to 
information  not  easily  obtainable  by  business  or  industry.  Its  discoveries  in  general 
appear  valid  and  reliable,  not  only  for  militarized  groups,  but  for  most  nonmilitary 
institutions  or  businesses  which  train  or  employ  women.  The  observations  on  health, 
fatigue,  accident  rates,  and  psychological  patterns,  as  well  as  the  discoveries  in  the 
fields  of  training,  housing,  clothing,  feeding,  and  disciplining  groups  of  women,  offer 


SPECIAL  STUDIES 


141 


valuable  insights,  including  heretofore  unpublished  statistics,  in  the  social  history  of 
the  Army. 

Part  One,  “The  Organization  and  Growth  of  a  Women’s  Corps,”  covers  the 
origin  (Ch.  I)  and  establishment  (Ch.  II)  of  the  Women’s  Army  Auxiliary  Corps,  the 
struggles  of  the  first  year  (Chs.  Ill— XI),  the  conversion  and  integration  into  the  Army 
(Chs.  XII,  XIV),  attempts  to  revive  recruiting  (Ch.  XIII),  and  the  removal  of  the 
Director’s  Office  to  the  G-l  (personnel)  Division  (Ch.  XV).  Part  Two,  “World-Wide 
Employment,”  begins  with  the  account  of  the  employment  of  women  in  the  Army’s 
three  major  commands:  the  Army  Air  Forces  (Ch.  XVI),  the  Army  Ground  Forces 
(Ch.  XVII),  and  the  Army  Service  Forces  (Ch.  XVIII).  The  next  chapter  (Ch.  XIX) 
describes  their  employment  in  the  Medical  Department’s  Auxiliary  Service  Force 
(ASF).  The  succeeding  three  chapters  describe  the  WACs  in  overseas  theaters:  the 
Mediterranean  theater,  including  North  Africa  (Ch.  XX);  the  European  theater  (Ch. 
XXI);  the  Southwest  Pacific  Area  (Ch.  XXII);  and  other  overseas  theaters  (Ch. 
XXIII).  The  Office  of  the  Director,  WAC,  is  discussed  in  the  last  chapter  (XXIV). 

Part  Three,  “War  Department  Policy  Concerning  the  Women’s  Army  Corps,” 
deals  with  legal,  social,  and  moral  problems  (Ch.  XXV);  housing,  food,  and  clothing 
(Ch.  XXVI);  the  employment  of  personnel:  enlisted  women  (Ch.  XXVII),  officers 
(Ch.  XXVIII),  overseas  shipment  (Ch.  XXIX),  and  minority  groups  (Ch.  XXX); 
health  and  medical  care  (Ch.  XXXI);  training  (Ch.  XXXII);  the  leadership  of  women 
(Ch.  XXXIII);  and  recruiting  and  publicity  (Ch.  XXXIV). 

Part  Four,  “Last  Days  of  the  Wartime  WAC,”  describes  the  WACs  in  the  closing 
months  of  the  war  (Ch.  XXXV)  and  in  the  throes  of  demobilization  (Ch.  XXXVI).  The 
title  of  the  final  chapter  is  self-explanatory:  “Evaluation  and  Recommendations.” 

Women’s  services,  other  than  the  WAC,  discussed  in  this  volume  are  the  following: 

1.  Air  Wacs  (see  Index:  also  under  “Army  Air  Forces”). 

2.  Army  Nurse  Corps  (see  Index). 

3.  British  women’s  services  (see  Index:  “Auxiliary  Territorial  Services,”  and 
App.  B). 

4.  Canadian  women’s  services  (see  Index). 

5.  Women’s  service  in  the  U.S.  Coast  Guard  (see  Index:  “SPARS”). 

6.  WASP  (see  Index:  “Women  Air  Service  Pilots,”  and  App.  D). 

7.  WAVES  (see  Index:  “Women  Accepted  for  Volunteer  Emergency  Service”). 

8.  WIRES  (see  Index:  “Women  in  Radio  and  Electrical  Service”). 

9.  Women’s  Reserve,  Marine  Corps  (see  Index). 

10.  WOWs  (see  Index:  “Women  Ordnance  Workers”). 


MANHATTAN:  THE  ARMY  AND  THE  ATOMIC  BOMB.  By  Vincent  C.  Jones. 
(1985,  1988;  660  pages,  7  maps,  3  tables,  5  charts,  93  illustrations,  appendix, 
bibliographical  note,  glossaries,  index,  CMH  Pub  1 1-10.) 

This  volume  describes  the  U.S.  Army ’s  key  role  in  the  formation  and  administra¬ 
tion  of  the  Manhattan  Project,  the  World  War  II  organization  which  produced  the 


142 


READER'S  GUIDE 


atomic  bomb  that  contributed  significantly  to  ending  the  conflict  with  Japan  and 
marked  the  beginning  of  the  postwar  atomic  era.  It  relates  how  the  Army,  starting  in 
1 939,  became  increasingly  involved  in  the  research  activities  initiated  by  American 
and  refugee  scientists  into  the  military  potentialities  of  atomic  energy,  spurred  on  by 
the  conviction  that  the  Axis  powers  already  had  under  way  programs  for  the 
development  of  atomic  weapons.  With  the  United  States  entry  into  the  war  after  the 
attack  on  Pearl  Harbor  ( 1 94 1 )  as  an  active  participant,  America’s  wartime  leaders  took 
immediate  measures  to  expand  the  research  and  industrial  efforts  required  to  develop 
atomic  weapons.  To  administer  this  enlarged  program,  they  turned  to  the  Army  as  the 
organization  best  suited  to  cope  with  its  special  security,  priority,  manpower,  and 
other  problems  in  an  economy  geared  to  all-out  war  production. 

The  Army  took  over  the  atomic  bomb  program  in  the  early  summer  of  1 942.  By 
that  time  much  of  the  basic  scientific  research  and  development  prerequisite  to 
building  the  plants  and  testing  the  methods  for  weapon  design  and  production  had 
been  completed.  To  form  and  oversee  an  atomic  bomb  construction  and  production 
organization,  the  Army  turned  to  its  own  Corps  of  Engineers,  with  a  long  and 
distinguished  history  of  supervising  large-scale  building  projects.  The  corps  re¬ 
sponded  to  its  newly  assigned  task  by  adopting  organizational  procedures  used  on  all 
its  major  construction  projects.  It  set  up  a  new  engineer  “district”  under  the 
command  of  a  district  engineer,  who  temporarily  established  his  headquarters  in  the 
facilities  of  the  corps’  division  engineer  in  New  York  City.  For  reasons  of  security 
the  new  district’s  project  was  designated  the  Laboratory  for  Development  of  Substi¬ 
tute  Materials  (DSM),  but  unofficially  became  known  as  the  Manhattan  District 
because  of  its  New  York  location. 

This  history  of  the  Manhattan  Project  takes  a  broadly  chronological  approach  but 
with  topical  treatment  of  detailed  developments.  The  focus  of  the  narrative  is  from 
the  vantage  point  of  the  Manhattan  Project  organization,  as  it  functioned  under  the 
direction  of  Maj.  Gen.  Leslie  R.  Groves  and  such  key  scientific  administrators  as 
Vannevar  Bush,  James  B.  Conant,  Arthur  Compton,  and  J.  Robert  Oppenheimer, 
responding  to  policies  originating  at  the  top  levels  of  the  wartime  leadership.  The 
volume  begins  with  a  prologue  designed  to  provide  the  reader  with  a  brief  survey  of 
the  history  of  atomic  energy,  explaining  in  layman’s  terms  certain  technical  aspects 
of  atomic  science. 

The  remainder  of  the  book  takes  the  reader  through  the  turnover  of  the  project 
administration  to  the  Army  and  the  beginnings  of  the  atomic  age.  Discussion  of 
technological  problems  and  issues  are  presented  in  nontechnical  prose.  This  volume 
ends  where  it  began  with  the  project  being  transferred  back  to  civilian  control. 

Key  topics: 

1 .  The  history  and  theoretical  basis  of  atomic  science  before  the  outbreak  of 
World  War  II  (Prologue). 

2.  The  contributions  during  World  War  II  of  civilian  scientific  agencies,  such  as 
the  National  Defense  Research  Committee  (NDRC)  and  the  Office  of  Scientific 
Research  and  Development  (OSRD),  to  the  program  for  design  and  manufacture  of 
an  atomic  bomb  (Ch.  I). 

3 .  How  the  Army  successfully  organized  and  administered  several  projects  that 


SPECIAL  STUDIES 


143 


enabled  American  industry  to  build  and  operate  massive  production  facilities 
essential  to  the  making  of  atomic  bombs  (Chs.  Ill,  IV,  Part  II). 

4.  The  technical  problems  involved  in  the  production  of  fissionable  materials 
(uranium  and  plutonium)  for  use  in  atomic  weapons  (Part  II). 

5.  The  difficulties  and  complexities  of  interchanging  scientific  information  and 
personnel  among  Allies  in  wartime  as  exhibited  in  the  collaboration  between  the 
United  States  and  Great  Britain  on  atomic  matters  in  World  War  II  (Ch.  X). 

6.  The  special  problems  of  designing  and  managing  a  project-wide  security 
system  based  upon  the  principle  of  compartmentalization  of  information  (Ch.  XI). 

7.  The  planning,  building,  and  administering  of  new  communities  for  civilian  war 
workers  and  military  personnel  serving  at  atomic  installations  in  Oak  Ridge, 
Tennessee;  Richland-Hanford,  Washington;  and  Los  Alamos,  New  Mexico  (Chs. 
XXI-XXIII). 

8 .  The  essential  elements  for  interservice  collaboration  as  exhibited  by  the  leaders 
of  the  Manhattan  Project  and  the  Army  Air  Forces  in  the  strategical  and  tactical 
planning  and  the  on-site  preparations  for  the  atomic  bombing  of  Hiroshima  and 
Nagasaki,  Japan,  in  August  (Ch.  XXVI). 


Pictorial  Record 


Pictorial  Record 


In  the  narrative  volumes  of  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II  series,  it  is 
possible  to  include  only  a  limited  number  of  the  thousands  of  pictures  taken  by 
photographers  of  the  U.S.  armed  forces.  The  Pictorial  Record,  a  subseries  of  three 
volumes,  has  therefore  been  compiled  to  show  in  greater  detail  the  conditions  under 
which  the  combat  forces  lived,  the  methods  by  which  they  were  trained,  the  weapons 
they  and  their  opponents  used,  the  terrain  over  which  they  fought,  and  the  support  they 
received  from  the  technical  branches  of  the  U.S.  Army,  the  U.S.  Army  Air  Forces,  and 
the  U.S.  Navy. 

Two  volumes  of  the  subseries  deal  with  the  war  against  the  European  Axis  and 
the  third  covers  the  war  in  the  Pacific  and  in  the  China-Burma-India  Theater.  Each 
volume  is  arranged  in  sections  that  follow  the  course  of  the  war  chronologically;  the 
written  text  has  been  kept  to  a  minimum,  each  section  having  a  brief  introduction 
recounting  the  major  events  covered  therein.  The  three  volumes  together  give  a 
comprehensive  pictorial  survey  of  the  U.S.  Army ’s  operations  in  Africa,  Europe,  the 
Middle  East,  Southeast  Asia,  the  Far  East,  and  the  Pacific. 

THE  WAR  AGAINST  GERMANY  AND  ITALY:  MEDITERRANEAN  AND 
ADJACENT  AREAS.  (1951,1 988;  465  pages,  5  maps,  495  illustrations,  glossary, 
index,  CMH  Pub  12-2.) 

This  volume  deals  with  operations  in  North  Africa,  the  Middle  East,  Sicily, 
Corsica,  Sardinia,  the  Italian  mainland,  and  southern  France. 

THE  WAR  AGAINST  GERMANY:  EUROPE  AND  ADJACENT  AREAS. 

(1951,1 989;  448  pages,  7  maps,  568  illustrations,  glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  1 2-3.) 

Covered  in  this  volume  are  the  buildup  in  the  United  Kingdom,  the  air  offensive 
in  Europe,  and  the  Normandy,  Northern  France,  Rhineland,  Ardennes-Alsace,  and 
Central  Europe  Campaigns. 

THE  WAR  AGAINST  JAPAN.  (1952, 1988;  471  pages,  13  maps,  566  illustrations, 
glossary,  index,  CMH  Pub  12-1 .) 

Here  are  depicted  training  in  Hawaii,  Australia,  and  New  Caledonia;  defeat  in  the 
Philippines;  the  campaigns  in  the  Solomons,  New  Guinea,  New  Britain,  the  Admi¬ 
ralties,  the  Aleutians,  the  Gilberts,  the  Marshalls,and  the  Marianas;  the  return  to  the 
Philippines,  Iwo  Jima,  and  Okinawa;  and  the  operation  of  the  supply  line  to  China 
through  Burma  and  India. 


World  War  II  Sources 


The  volumes  produced  in  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II  series  represent 
one  of  the  most  ambitious  historical  writing  projects  ever  conducted.  Popularly 
known  as  the  “Green  Books,”  the  series  itself  constitutes  but  a  fraction  of  the 
historical  material  available  on  World  War  II.  A  broad  foundation  of  records  and 
recollections,  carefully  documented  and  annotated  in  the  footnotes  of  each  volume, 
supports  the  entire  series,  but  even  the  vast  amount  of  documents  referenced  cover 
only  the  activities  of  the  U.S.  Army  in  rather  broad  terms.  For  any  detailed  study  of 
a  particular  aspect  of  the  Army  in  World  War  II  a  researcher  has  more  than  1 7,000  tons 
of  Army  records  produced  during  the  war  years  with  which  to  contend,  as  well  as  a 
huge  volume  of  prewar  records  which  provide  essential  background  to  events  taking 
place  during  the  war. 

Beyond  Army  records  there  are  Navy,  Air  Force,  and  Marine  Corps  records  which 
document  their  participation  in  the  war,  as  well  as  those  of  other  government  agencies. 
Obviously  a  historian  can  eliminate  large  segments  of  official  records  simply  based 
on  the  topic  of  inquiry.  If  the  focus  is  strategy,  then  only  the  records  of  the  highest 
levels  will  be  of  interest;  if,  however,  the  focus  is  on  particular  military  operations, 
then  the  records  of  the  participating  units  will  be  the  primary  sources  of  information. 
Additional  primary  documentation  can  be  found  in  personal  diaries  and  memoirs  of 
the  leading  participants  in  the  war,  which  often  go  beyond  the  official  records  in 
presenting  details  of  how  and  why  decisions  on  the  conduct  of  the  war  were  made. 
Whether  one  has  been  a  student  of  the  war  for  some  time  or  is  simply  interested  in  a 
specific  aspect  of  the  war,  the  following  information  is  thus  no  more  than  a  limited 
introduction  to  the  wealth  of  source  material  available. 

RECORDS  SUPPORTING  THE  UNITED  STATES  ARMY 
IN  WORLD  WAR  II 

The  records  and  documents  collected  and  used  by  the  historians  who  researched 
and  wrote  the  individual  volumes  in  the  series  are  located  in  a  variety  of  collections. 
Each  of  the  volumes  has  a  brief  bibliographic  note  which  outlines  the  sources  used  in 
the  preparation  of  that  volume  and  where  they  may  be  found.  After  each  volume  was 
written  and  published  the  notes,  working  drafts,  and  documents  retained  by  the 
author(s)  were  gathered  together  and  retired  to  the  National  Archives  and  Records 
Administration  (NARA)  in  Washington,  D.C.  Sources  noted  in  a  volume  as  being  at 
the  U.S.  Army  Center  of  Military  History  (CMH)  in  Washington,  D.C.,  have 
generally  been  transferred  to  the  collections  at  NARA. 

Unpublished  historical  manuscripts  prepared  by  Headquarters,  War  Department 
agencies;  Army  Service  Forces;  Technical  Services;  Army  Ground  Forces;  and 


150 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Army  commands  located  in  the  continental  United  States  and  in  the  theaters  of 
operations  are  on  file  at  CMH.  Microfilm  copies  of  these  documents  are  also  on  file 
in  the  library  of  the  U.S.  Army  Command  and  General  Staff  College  at  Fort 
Leavenworth,  Kansas. 

Documents  with  the  War  Department  decimal  prefaced  by  Misc.,  E1RC,  or  GEOG 
are  part  of  the  Historical  Records  Collection  at  CMH.  Transcripts  of  interviews 
conducted  by  the  author(s)  while  researching  are  located  both  at  the  U.S.  Army 
Military  History  Institute  (MHI)  at  Carlisle  Barracks,  Pennsylvania,  and  in  the 
Military  Reference  Branch,  Textual  Reference  Division,  ofNARA.  Diaries  cited  in 
the  volumes  may  be  in  a  variety  of  places.  Some  are  at  MHI,  others  at  CMH,  and  still 
others  were  returned  to  private  owners. 

Official  records  created  by  Headquarters,  War  Department  agencies;  the  Supreme 
Headquarters,  American  Expeditionary  Forces;  the  Army  Service  Forces;  and  the 
Army  Ground  Forces  will  be  found  in  the  Military  Reference  Branch,  Textual 
Reference  Division,  ofNARA.  Official  records  created  by  Army  commands  within 
the  continental  United  States  and  the  Army  Technical  Services  and  World  War  II 
operational  reports  are  in  the  Suitland  Reference  Branch,  Textual  Reference  Division, 
ofNARA. 

Official  photographs  and  posters  from  all  the  services  including  the  Army  are  on 
file  in  the  Still  Picture  Branch,  Special  Archives  Division,  ofNARA.  Official  Army 
motion  picture  films  and  sound  records  are  in  the  Motion  Picture,  Sound,  and  Video 
Branch,  Special  Archives  Division,  ofNARA.  NARA  also  has  reproduced  some  of 
the  motion  pictures  in  video  tape  format  and  maintains  special  collections  of  many  of 
the  commercial  motion  pictures  which  deal  with  World  War  II. 

Army  maps,  charts,  blueprints,  aerial  photographs,  posters,  and  architectural 
drawings  of  fortifications,  U.S.  government  buildings  in  and  around  Washington, 
D.C.,  and  some  buildings  on  Army  installations  are  filed  with  the  Cartographic 
Architectural  Branch,  Special  Archives  Division,  ofNARA  in  Washington,  D.C. 

Official  personnel  records  for  all  members  of  the  Army  are  at  the  National 
Personnel  Records  Center  in  St.  Louis,  Missouri.  Unfortunately,  about  85  percent  of 
the  records  were  destroyed  in  a  fire  at  the  center  in  1973.  Alternative  sources  of 
information  on  individuals  who  served  in  the  Army  in  World  War  II  include  the 
General  Accounting  Office  pay  vouchers  filed  in  the  National  Personnel  Records 
Center;  Selective  Service  records  in  the  Regional  Archives  Division  of  the  Federal 
Records  Centers;  the  courts-marshal  records  from  the  Clerk  of  the  Court,  Army 
Judiciary,  in  Falls  Church,  Virginia;  the  Veterans  Administration  in  Washington, 
D.C.;  and  in  the  records  of  state  adjutants  general  and  county  and  municipal  governments. 

Personal  papers  and  related  material  of  senior  leaders  not  found  in  the  institutions 
may  be  found  at  MHI.  In  addition  special  collections,  such  as  the  Eisenhower  or 
MacArthur  libraries,  contain  extensive  archives  on  the  participation  of  the  more 
notable  American  leaders  in  World  War  II. 

There  are  also  large  collections  of  unit  histories,  of  widely  varying  lengths,  at 
MHI,  CMH,  and  other  military  libraries.  CMH  also  holds  a  number  of  collections  of 
historical  material  prepared  or  gathered  by  CMH  historians  in  the  course  of  preparing 
the  Green  Books. 


WORLD  WAR  II  SOURCES 


151 


OFFICIAL  HISTORIES 

The  Green  Books  of  the  United  States  Army  in  World  War  II  constitute  the  official 
history  of  the  U.S.  Army.  The  series  was  published  by  the  Government  Printing 
Office,  and  individual  volumes  are  still  available  from  that  agency.  While  the  other 
services  do  not  have  anything  directly  comparable  to  the  Green  Books,  each  has 
produced  or  sponsored  a  service  history  which  covers  World  War  II. 

The  Navy  ’  s  semiofficial  history  of  the  war  was  written  under  an  arrangement  with 
Samuel  Eliot  Morison,  at  the  time  professor  of  history  at  Harvard  University.  His 
History  of  Naval  Operations  in  World  War  II,  published  by  Boston’s  Little,  Brown 
and  Company  in  fifteen  volumes,  is  based  primarily  on  official  records.  The  activities 
ofthe  Air  Force  are  covered  in  The  Army  Air  Forces  in  World  War  II,  edited  by  Wesley 
Frank  Craven  and  James  Lea  Cate.  The  multivolume  series  was  originally  published 
by  the  University  of  Chicago  Press  and  is  now  available  through  the  Government 
Printing  Office.  A  five-volume  History  of  U.S.  Marine  Corps  Operations  in  World 
War  II has  also  been  published  by  the  Government  Printing  Office. 

A  number  of  other  Allied  participants  in  World  War  II  have  also  produced 
multivolume  official  histories  of  their  own  that  are  widely  available  in  the  United 
States.  The  British  History  of  the  Second  World  War  series  was  edited  by  J.  R.  M. 
Butler  and  published  by  Her  Majesty’s  Stationer}'  Office.  Australian  participation 
in  the  war  is  covered  in  Australia  in  the  War  of 1939-1945;  the  Official  History’  of  the 
Canadian  Army  was  published  by  the  Queen’s  Printer  and  Controller  of  Stationary; 
and  Bisheshwar  Prarad  edited  the  Official  History  of  the  Indian  Armed  Forces  in  the 
Second  World  War  1939-45,  which  was  prepared  under  the  auspices  of  the  Combined 
Inter-Services  Historical  Section  (India  and  Pakistan).  The  Official  History  of  New 
Zealand  in  the  Second  World  War  1939-1945  was  published  by  the  Government 
Printer  of  New  Zealand.  Multi  volume  official  histories  of  the  war  are  either  under 
way  or  have  been  published  in  France  (Service  Historique  de  l’Armee);  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany  (Militaergeschichtliches  Forschungsamt);  and  in  the  former 
Soviet  Union,  although  its  historians  have  not  yet  been  able  to  produce  an  agreed-upon 
version. 

FOREIGN  RECORDS 

Official  German  war  records  held  by  the  United  States  after  World  War  II  have 
been  returned  to  Germany,  but  microfilm  copies  are  still  held  at  NARA  and  are 
available  to  researchers.  NARA  also  holds  over  two  thousand  manuscripts  written  by 
German  authors  under  the  auspices  of  the  U.S.  Army.  These  are  cataloged  and 
indexed  in  the  Guide  to  Foreign  Military  Studies  1945-54,  a  collection  maintained  by 
the  Military  Reference  Branch,  Textual  Reference  Division,  ofNARA. 

Information  on  German  operations  in  World  War  II  is  also  available  in  a  series  of 
monographs  prepared  by  CMH  German-language  qualified  historians.  These  authors 
based  their  studies  on  official  German  records  captured  or  seized  during  the  war  and 
on  the  postwar  manuscripts  cited  above.  These  manuscripts  are  available  at  CMH  and 
MHI. 


152 


READER'S  GUIDE 


French  records  available  on  microfilm  from  NARA’s  Military  Reference  Branch 
include  a  nearly  complete  collection  of  daily  journals,  situation  reports,  and  opera¬ 
tions  orders  for  all  French  divisions,  corps,  and  higher  headquarters.  These  docu¬ 
ments  are  supplemented  with  large  numbers  of  French  Army  plans,  reports,  special 
studies,  and  other  records  and  information  provided  by  the  Service  Historique  de 
FArmee. 

The  Japanese  record  of  World  War  II  is  not  as  complete  as  the  German,  but  there 
are  still  considerable  sources  of  material.  One  series  of  monographs  was  prepared 
after  the  war  by  former  Japanese  Army  and  Navy  officers  under  the  supervision  of  the 
Historical  Section  of  the  Far  East  Command  in  Tokyo.  These  studies,  covering  a  wide 
variety  of  war-related  topics,  are  available  at  CMH.  The  Far  East  Command  also 
assembled  a  collection  of  Imperial  General  Headquarters  directives  and  orders  for 
the  wartime  period.  NARA  also  holds  a  microfilm  collection  of  records  of  the 
Japanese  Army  and  Navy  Ministries  dating  from  the  turn  of  the  century  which  were 
seized  by  U.S.  authorities  after  the  war.  The  original  records  have  been  returned  to 
the  government  of  Japan.  The  largest  number  of  foreign  military  records  are,  of 
course,  to  be  found  in  the  country  of  origin. 

JOURNALS  AND  SECONDARY  SOURCES 

Many  articles  have  appeared  in  military  professional  journals  both  during  and 
after  World  War  II  which  cover  a  wide  variety  of  topics.  Prominent  among  the 
American  periodicals  are  the  United  States  Naval  Institute  Proceedings,  Army  (and 
its  predecessors,  Combat  Forces  Journal  and  the  Infantry  Journal),  Military  Review, 
and  Marine  Corps  Gazette ;  these  are  supplemented  by  such  publications  as  the  British 
Journal  of  the  Royal  Service  Institute  and  the  French  Revue  Historique  de  laDeuxieme 
Guerre  Mondiale.  Unfortunately  these  periodicals  are  not  usually  indexed  in  the 
Reader ’s  Guide  to  Periodical  Literature,  although  some  use  can  be  made  of  the 
National  Defense  Review  issued  from  1947  to  1955  by  the  Army  Library  at  the 
Pentagon  and  the  Air  University  Periodical  Index  of  the  Air  University  Library, 
Maxwell  Air  Force  Base,  Alabama. 

Almost  all  public,  academic,  and  military  libraries  have  large  sections  of 
secondary  works  devoted  to  the  history  of  the  Second  World  War.  The  most 
comprehensive  guides  to  these  works  are  World  War  II:  Books  in  English,  1945-65 , 
compiled  by  Janet  Ziegler  and  published  in  1 97 1  by  the  Hoover  Institution  Press  in 
Stanford,  California,  and  a  supplement  published  by  the  American  Committee  on  the 
History  of  the  Second  World  War  in  pamphlet  form  entitled^  Select  Bibliography  of 
Books  on  the  Second  World  War  in  English  Published  in  the  United  States,  1966- 
1975.  Yet  interest  in  World  War  II  remains  intense,  and  the  continued  outpouring  of 
articles,  books,  dissertations,  and  even  memoirs  on  the  conflict  makes  the  creation  of 
even  semidefinitive  bibliographical  guides  exceedingly  difficult. 


Index 


Aachen,  reduction  of,  70,  79 
Abadan  refinery,  90 
ABC-1  Conference,  7 
Administration 

central,  for  supply  operations,  10 
in  CWS,  99, 101-02 
of  government-seized  plants,  16 
of  hospitals,  1 10 
of  lend-lease,  10,  30 
of  priorities  system,  15 
of  procurement  agencies,  15 
in  QMC,  118 

of  transportation  systems,  125 
of  troopships,  126 
of  wartime  economy,  1 1 
Aerial  photography  and  mapping,  104,  108 
Africa.  See  Northwest  Africa,  campaign  in. 
Agencies,  wartime.  See  also  by  name. 
civilian-military  relations  in,  125 
coordination  between,  90 
creation  of,  10 

Air,  command  of,  effect  on  enemy,  46 
Air  attacks,  46, 74-75, 83 
Air  bases 

in  Brazil,  potential  enemy,  35 
China  as  base  for  Pacific,  93,  94 
construction  of,  1 06 
on  Leyte,  54 
in  Marianas,  51,52 
in  New  Guinea  area,  48 
in  Pacific  theater,  50 
Air  Corps.  See  Army  Air  Forces. 

Air  Corps  Act  of  1 926,  1 32 
Air  defenses,  U.S.,  37,  38 
Air  Forces 
Fifth,  54 
Fourteenth,  94 
Tenth,  94 

Air  forces,  volunteer  units  of,  95 
Air-ground  coordination,  53,  57,  62,  76,  78 
early  problems,  22 
in  Europe,  79,  80,  8 1 , 82,  84 
at  Guadalcanal,  47, 48 
in  Italy,  64,  65 
on  Leyte,  54 
in  Marianas,  52 
in  Philippines  recovery,  53 
at  Rabaul,  49 


Air  operations,  plans  for  hemisphere  defense,  36-37 
Air  power 

China-based,  decision  on,  94 
growth  of  U.S.,4,  8 
Philippines,  loss  in,  44 
role  of,  4,  9 
Air  supply 
toCBI,  94, 95 

of  ground  forces,  47, 48,  8 1 , 84,  94 
Air  support,  naval,  in  Philippines,  52-56 
Air  support,  strategic 

from  China  and  India,  95 
in  Philippines,  53,  54,  56 
in  Sicily,  63 

in  support  of  ground  forces,  76, 79,  82,  83 
Air  support,  tactical 

of  amphibious  operations,  5 1 , 82 

in  Gilberts-Marshalls,  50-5 1 

of  ground  forces.  See  Air-ground  coordination. 

in  Guadalcanal,  47 

to  isolate  battlefield,  140 

on  Leyte,  54 

in  Marianas,  5 1-52 

in  Philippines  recovery,  53 

in  Sicily,  63 

weather,  effect  on,  76,  80,  8 1 
Air  traffic,  control  by  Allies,  1 37 
Air  transport  of  ground  forces,  48 
Airborne  forces 

integration  into  ground  forces,  22 
organization  and  training,  23 
Airborne  operations,  53 

combined  with  amphibious  assault,  49,  82 
in  Netherlands,  70 
in  Normandy,  75 
in  Rhine  crossing,  7 1 
in  Sicily,  63,  64 
Aircraft 

procurement  of,  132-33 
in  transport  and  supply  role,  48, 93-95 
weapons  for,  114,  132 
Aircraft  carriers,  Japanese  losses,  48^49 
Aircraft  warning  system,  development  of,  123 
Airfields,  construction  of,  105-09 
Airlift  operations.  See  Air  supply. 

Alaska,  preparations  for  the  defense  of,  37,38,  1 07, 1 08 
Alaska  Communications  System,  1 24 
Aleutian  Islands  Campaign,  37,  38, 44,  107,  1 12 


154 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Alexander,  General  Sir  Harold,  63 
Algeria,  61 

Allies,  6-14,  105,  120,  126.  See  also  Coalition 
warfare;  Global  warfare. 

Australia,  11,48,  107,  119 
Brazil,  35,  36,  37,65 

Canada,  35-37, 65, 69, 72, 78, 83, 136-37, 141 
China,  8, 9,  11,93-95,  107,  124 
France,  62, 65 , 69. 70-7 1 , 73, 74, 8 1  -84, 

137-38 

Great  Britain, 6-14, 62-64, 65. 69, 71-85, 89-90. 

107,  108-09,  120,  121, 124, 132, 134 
India,  107 
Iran,  11,89-90,  128 
Mexico,  36,  37 

USSR.  8-9, 11,71,72,83, 89-90. 1 24 
Alsace,  battle  of,  82 
Altuzzo,  139-40 

Ammunition  supplies,  84,  1 16-17 
Amphibian  vehicles,  13,51,52,  74—75 
Amphibious  operations 
Army’s  role  in,  23 
engineer  role  in,  107,  108-09 
in  France,  81-82 
in  Gilberts-Marshalls,  50-5 1 
at  Guadalcanal,  46-48 
in  Italy,  64 

major,  planning  and  execution,  54, 57, 71-72, 
81-82 

in  Marianas,  5 1-52 
medical  services.  111,  112,  113 
in  New  Guinea  area,  48, 52-55,  107 
in  Normandy  Campaign,  70, 73-75 
in  Northwest  Africa,  61—62 
over-the-beach  supply  in,  13,  14,51,52,85,  107, 
128 

planning  and  execution,  47, 54-55, 57, 7 1-72.  1 08 
QMC  support  of.  121 
in  Ryukyus,  56-58 
in  Sicily,  63 

transportation  for,  1 26,  1 27 
Animals 

procurement  of,  118 
transport  by,  128 
Antiaircraft  artillery 

integration  into  ground  forces,  22 
as  specialized  arm,  22 
Antiaircraft  weapons,  development,  1 14 
Antwerp,  clearing,  70,  79 
ANVIL.  See  Southern  France  Campaign. 

Anzio,  stalemate  at,  64 
Apennine  Mountains,  139 
Appleman,  Roy  E.,  56 
ARCADIA  (Washington)  Conference,  6 
Arctic  regions,  bases  in,  137 
Ardennes  Campaign,  71,73, 77, 79-8 1 
Armament,  obsolete,  43 
Armies 

32d  Japanese,  56 


Armies — Continued 
armor  in,  77 
Eighth  British.  65 
in  ETO, 71-73 
Fifth  U.S.,  64-65 
First  Allied  Airborne,  70,  78 
First  Canadian,  78,  83 
First  French,  70,81-82, 83 
First  U.S.,  70, 7 1 , 73, 75-77, 78-8 1,83 
Nineteenth  German,  81-82 
Ninth  U.S.,  70, 77, 78-80, 83 
operations  by,  71-73 
Second  British.  78-79, 83 
Seventh  U.S.,  63, 70, 77. 81-82, 83 
Sixth  U.S.,  54-56 
tactical  experience,  summary,  55 
Tenth  U.S.,  56-57 
Third  U.S.,  70, 7 1 , 75-8 1 . 82, 83 
Armies,  “Type,”  abandoned.  23 
Armor 

amphibian,  74-75 
integration  into  ground  forces,  22 
plans  for  organization  and  use,  22 
tank,  controversy  over,  1 14 
Armor  operations 

armor-infantry  coordination,  51, 57,  84,  140 
armor  versus  armor,  78,  81,  140 
in  assault  of  fortified  line,  77,  79 
in  breakthrough,  76 
in  close  support,  140 
in  difficult  terrain,  57. 62, 65-66, 82 
German,  79-81 
medical  services  during,  1 1 1 
in  Philippines  recovery,  53,  56 
problems  involved,  53 
suppl  ies  for,  ,1 20-2 1 
terrain,  effects  on,  84 
weather,  effects  on,  84 
Army  Air  Forces  ( AAF) 
activation,  21,  29 
black  air  units,  135,  136 
construction  for,  106 

integration  of  plans  with  Army  and  Navy,  7,  9 
movement  toward  autonomy,  4 
preferential  assignment  to,  25 
procurement  of  aircraft  for,  1 32-33 
transportation  position,  special,  125,  126 
women,  use  by,  140 

Army  General  Staff,  comparison  with  Operations 
Division,  6 

Army  Ground  Forces  (AGF),  2 1-25,  141 
Army  group  operations.  71-73 
Army  Groups 
6th,  70, 8 1-82 
21st  British,  80 
Allied,  80 

Army-Navy  operations.  See  Joint  operations. 

Army  Nurse  Corps,  141 

Army  Ordnance  Association,  1 15 


INDEX 


155 


Army  Service  Forces  (ASF),  29-3 1 .  See  also  Services 
of  Supply. 

relation  to  technical  services,  123,  125,  126 
role  in  economic  mobilization,  14-15 
role  in  organizing  supply  theater,  90 
women,  use  by,  141 

Army  Specialized  Training  Program,  24,  25 
Amaville,  river  crossing  at,  139—40 
Arnold,  General  Henry  H.,  29 
Arsenals,  1 1 5 
Artillery 

employment  of,  52 
German  reserves  of,  79 
heavy  artillery  program,  23 
shortages  in,  48 

Artillery  bombardment  of  fortified  area,  74-75, 76, 

139 

Artillery  fire  support 

in  amphibious  operations,  5 1,  53 
in  close  support,  140 
in  Gilberts-Marshalls,  50-5 1 
of  ground  forces,  47, 49,  53. 57,  64.  66, 76, 78 
in  Marianas,  52 
in  Philippines  recovery,  53 
Artillery  units,  76 

Assault  tactics.  See  also  Offensive  operations;  Tactics, 
defense  against,  47 

against  fortified  area.  47, 48,  57,  64,  65,  66,  74, 76. 
77 

on  fortified  islands,  53,  54,  56,  57,  63 
piecemeal  commitments,  62 
uncoordinated,  62 
Assignment 

of  inferior  troops  to  AGF,  24—25 
of  QMC  troops,  1 18 
Atlantic.  Battle  of.  37 
Atomic  bomb 

decision  to  use,  6,  143 
development  of,  106.  141—43 
medical  care  of  victims  of,  113 
Attack  tactics.  See  Assault  tactics;  Offensive 
operations;  Tactics. 

Australia,  11,48,  107,  119 
Australian  Army,  in  Papua,  48 
Avranches,  German  thrust  on,  69 
Axis  forces,  evacuation  from  Sicily,  63-64 
Azores,  plans  for  action  in,  37 


B-29s,9,94 
Bahrein  refinery,  90 

Balance  of  power,  in  coalition  warfare,  9 
“Balanced  force”  concept,  4,  21-22.  23 
Base  facilities,  93,  1 19 

acquisition  and  organization  of  new,  38 

in  Arctic  regions,  137 

construction  of,  105,  106.  107,  108,  109 

control  by  Allies,  137 

enemy,  bypassing,  49 

in  joint  defense,  1 37 


Base  facilities — Continued 
shortages  of,  1 27 
in  United  Kingdom,  108.  109 
Bastogne,  80 
Bataan,  45,  107,  113 
Bathing  facilities,  120 
Battlefield  isolation 

attempts  by  tactical  air,  140 
by  communications  bombing,  75 
Beach  defense 

in  amphibious  operations,  52, 75 
in  Philippines,  46 
Beachhead  establishment,  57,  62 
in  airborne  operations,  75 
in  Normandy,  74 
organization  of  defense,  47 
in  Sicily,  63 
Beck,  Alfred  M.,  108 
Belfort  Gap,  81 

Belgium,  pursuit  across,  70, 78-79 
Berlin,  halt  short  of,  73.  83 
Biological  warfare,  101-04 
Birdsell,  Dale.  103 
Bizerte,  drive  on,  62 
Black  troops,  65,  105, 108,  135-36 
Blumenson,  Martin,  64,  75 
BOLERO.  See  Normandy  Campaign. 

Bortz,  Abe,  108 

Bradley,  Lt.  Gen.  Omar  N.,  62. 75,  80,  82 
Brazil,  35,  36, 77 
Breakthrough,  tactical.  76 
Brest,  reduction  of,  70,  75 
Bridgehead 

establishing,  84,  139 
reduction  of  German,  79 
Bridging  equipment,  108,  109 
Bridging  materials,  procurement  of,  104 
Bridging  operations,  81. 84,  108,  109.  140 
British  Royal  Navy,  37 
Brittany,  operations  in,  70,  75 
Brophy,  Leo  P.,  101,  102 
Buildup  of  forces,  84,  86 
Buildup  of  supplies,  priorities  in,  85,  86 
Bulge,  Battle  of.  See  Ardennes  Campaign. 
Buna,  drive  on,  48 
Bureaucracy,  effect  on  policy,  43 
Burma,  93-95. 107, 116 
Bums,  James  M.,  56 
Bush,  Vannevar,  142 
Bykofsky,  Joseph,  127 
Bypassing  operations,  49 

Cairo  Conference,  6,  8,  94 
Camouflage,  105 

Canada,  35-37, 69, 72, 136-37, 141 
Cannon,  M.  Hamlin,  54 
Caribbean,  U.S.  outposts  in  the,  37,  38 
CARTWHEEL.  See  Rabaul,  reduction  of. 
Casablanca  Conference,  6,  8,  11, 62,  63 


156 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Casualties 

experience  of  first  months,  85 
overseas,  forecasting,  1 10 
total  in  Europe,  83 
transportation  of,  1 27 
Cave  fighting,  53,  57 

Central  Pacific  Area  (CENPAC),  44, 49, 52,  104,  107, 
113 

Chemical  Warfare  Service  (CWS),  99, 101-04 
Chemical  weapons,  industry’s  role  in  producing,  103 
Chemical  storage  and  disposal,  103 
Chennault,  Maj.  Gen.  Claire  L.,  94 
Cherbourg,  fall  of,  74.  75 
Chiang  Kai-shek,  8,  12,93-95 
Chief  of  Staff,  U.S.  Army.  See  Marshall,  General  of 
the  Army  George  C. 

Chief  of  Staff  to  Supreme  Allied  Commander,  74 
China,  93-95 

engineer  role  in,  106,  107 
logistical  problems  in,  1 1 
medical  instruction  of  officers,  1 13 
in  politico-military  planning,  9 
role  in  strategic  planning,  8 
supply  routes  to,  1 1 

China-Burma-India(CBI)  Theater,  13.93-95,  107, 
112, 113 

China  Theater,  95,  107 
Chinese  Army,  93-95 
Chronology  of  World  War  II,  131 
Churchill,  Winston  S. 
role  in  logistics,  10 
role  in  rearming  French,  1 37-38 
role  in  strategic  planning,  8,  12 
Cities,  combat  in.  See  Street  fighting. 

Civil  affairs 

administration  of,  73,  82,  109 
military-versus-civilian  administration,  134 
in  Philippines  recovery,  53 
soldiers  as  governors,  1 34 
supplies  for,  120 

Civil  engineering  functions  of  engineers,  104 
Civilian  defense,  preparations  and  training  for,  37,  38, 
101 

Civilian  food  control  by  Army,  1 1 9-20 
Civilian-military  relations 

conflict  in  transportation  interests,  126 
in  industrial  mobilization,  30 
in  industrial  production,  10 
under  martial  law,  120 
Ordnance  Department-industry,  1 14,  1 15 
in  overlapping  functions,  90 
in  procurement,  15,  30 
in  scientific  research,  102 
in  transportation  systems,  125,  126 
Civilian  supply  and  Army  logistics,  12-14 
Clark,  Lt.  Gen.  Mark,  65 
Clark  Air  Base,  Philippines,  55 
Clarke,  Jeffrey  J.,  8 1 
Classification  system,  25 


Cline,  Ray  S.,  4 
Clothing,  118-21,138 
Coakley.  Robert  W„  10,  12 
Coalition  warfare.  See  also  Allies;  Global  warfare, 
amphibious  operations  in,  74 
command  in  friendly  territory,  62 
dependence  on  local  facilities,  85 
difficulties  of.  62-63 
high-level  command  decisions,  72.  83 
and  logistics  planning,  12-14 
problems  in,  at  SHAEF,  71-72 
problems  of  complex  organization,  137 
strategic  planning  for.  6-9, 62, 64—65 
at  tactical  levels,  76,  78 
Coastal  defenses,  bombardment  of,  75 
COBRA,  70, 75-76 
Cochrane,  Rexmond  C„  102 
Cole,  Hugh  M..  77,  79 
Coles,  Harry  L.,  1 34 
Coll,  Blanche  D..  104 
Colmar  Pocket,  82,  83 
Combat  arms 

demands  of,  versus  balanced  force,  21-23 
new  types,  organization  for  training,  22,  25 
Combat  fatigue,  50,  140 
Combat  operations 

communications  failure  in,  140 
French  units  in,  138 
medical  services  during,  110-13 
QMC  organization  in,  121 
relation  of  logistics  to,  84—86 
role  of  engineers  in,  104—05 
role  of ordnance,  116—17 
role  of  Signal  Corps  in.  121-24 
supply  during,  120,  140 

Combat  readiness,  25.  See  also  Unpreparedness. 
Combat  teams  in  Philippines  recovery,  52-53 
Combined  arms,  81,  108 

Combined  Bomber  Offensive  against  Germany,  9 
Combined  Chiefs  of  Staff  (CCS) 

Chief  of  Staff  as  member,  5 
coordination  of  Pacific  operations,  50-5 1 
plans  for  Philippines  recovery,  53 
relation  to  Supreme  Commander,  72 
role  in  logistics,  10,  12,  13 
role  in  rearming  French,  125 
strategic  concepts  of  the,  44 
Combined  operations 
in  Europe,  80-84 
in  Italy,  64-66 
problems  at  SHAEF,  7 1-72 
unity  of  command  in,  38, 43^14, 72 
Command.  See  also  Headquarters;  Staffs  and  staff 
procedures. 

of  black  troops,  135-36 
enemy,  effect  of  surprise  on,  46 
geographic  division  of,  80 
German,  66,  77,  82 
Japanese  failure  in  Philippines,  55 


INDEX 


157 


Command — Continued 
joint,  at  Papua,  48 
joint  and  Allied,  43-^14, 48 
organization  for  control  of  Army,  4 
overseas,  control  by  GHQ,  22-23 
poor  coordination  in,  1 39 
special  problems  in,  48,  112-13 
Command,  unity  of 
achieved  at  SHAEF,  72 
in  combined  operations,  43-44, 72-73 
lack  of,  43^4 

Marianas  as  test  of  doctrine,  51-52 
Marshall  on,  4 
Rabaul  as  example,  49 
Command  decisions 

division  and  higher,  71,  76,  83 
by  Eisenhower,  70, 71-73,  82, 83, 86 
at  highest  Allied  levels,  72,  83 
Command  relations 

Allied,  in  Pacific  theater,  43-44 
in  amphibious  operations,  50-5 1 
Anglo-American,  in  Iran,  90 
among  Axis  powers,  63 
in  CBI,  93-95 

in  joint  operations,  44,  52, 53 
in  supplying  units  in  zone  of  interior,  30 
Command  structure 

Allied  and  Axis  in  Africa,  62 
Allied  and  Axis  in  Italy,  66 
in  bilateral  cooperation,  136 
enemy,  in  Normandy,  74 
in  ETO,  80, 84-86 
and  medical  services,  1 12-13 
Commanders 

assistance  of  staff  to,  5 
surrender,  ethics  of,  45^46 
Commands,  coordination  by  OPD  with  WDGS,  5 
Commands,  unified,  control  of  shipping  in,  128 
Commission  of  officers,  4 
Communications 
air  attack  on,  75 
enemy,  effect  of  surprise  on,  46 
equipment,  122,  123,  124 
facilities  for  global  warfare,  122,  124 
failures  in  combat,  140 
global,  role  of  shipping  in,  1 1 
intelligence,  124 
security,  124 
space  age,  123 

Communications  Zone,  ETO,  84-86 
Compton,  Arthur,  142 

Compulsory-versus-voluntary  service  in  industry, 
17 

Conant,  James  B.,  142 
Condon-Rall,  Mary  Ellen,  1 12 
Conferences,  Allied,  8,  9,  14, 44 
Anglo-American,  7 
decisions  reached  in  1941, 6 
staff  procedures  at,  6 


Congress 

attitude  toward  war,  3 
and  Chief  of  Staff,  4 
and  national  service  legislation,  16 
Conn,  Stetson,  35,  37 
Construction,  90,  105,  108,  109 
for  atomic  bomb  project,  1 42 — 43 
of  hospitals,  1 12 
in  the  United  States,  105 
Construction  equipment,  heavy,  107,  108 
Contracts,  15,  16 
for  aircraft,  133 

civilian-versus-military  management  of  projects,  90 
construction,  106 
by  Signal  Corps,  124 
with  small  businesses,  15,  123 
termination  and  renegotiation,  16,  103,  118,  123 
types  of,  133 
Control 

of  Army,  organization  for,  4 
flexible,  in  tactical  reorganizations,  22 
of  Ordnance  Department  activities,  1 14 
of  rearmed  Allied  units,  138 
“Control”  agency,  device  in  management,  30 
Controlled  Materials  Plan,  16 
Cooperation 

Army-industry,  1 1 8 
bilateral,  command  structure  in,  1 36-37 
in  equipment  development,  105 
Transportation  Corps  with  other  agencies,  125 
United  States  and  Canada,  136-37 
United  States  and  USSR,  90 
Coordination 

air-ground.  See  Air-ground  coordination, 
armor-infantry,  140 
by  CCS  of  Pacific  operations,  50 
in  command,  poor,  139 
inter-Allied,  90 
interservice,  49,  54,  90 
of  technical  services  by  ASF,  29,  30 
Coral  Sea  campaign,  38 
Corps 
11,62 

III  Amphibious,  57 
V,  78 

VII,  78 

VIII,  80 
XXIV,  57 

Corps,  “Type,”  abandoned,  23 
Corps  operations 
in  ETO,  76 

in  Lorraine  campaign,  77 
in  offensive,  47,  49 
Corregidor,  45, 46,  107 
Cosmas,  Graham  A.,  1 1 1 
Cost-plus-a-fixed-fee  contracts,  15 
Counterattacks 

armor  operations  against,  77 
German  methods,  140 


158 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Counterattacks — Continued 
Japanese  methods,  5 1 , 52, 58 
naval,  defense  against,  53 
Cowdrey,  Albert  E.,  Ill,  112 
Crowl,  Philip  A.,  50, 5 1 
Crystal  control,  introduction  of,  123 
Customs,  national,  problem  among  Allies,  138 

Danube  River  crossing,  83 
Dead 

care  of.  1 19,  120,  121 
transport  of,  1 27 
Defense  planning 

of  continental  United  States,  23 
of  Western  Hemisphere,  35-38, 1 36-37 
Defense  Plant  Corporation,  132 
Defensive  area,  deliberate,  organization  of,  140 
Defensive  operations 
Burma,  Japanese  in,  94 
corps  in,  49 

against  enemy  attack,  47 
in  fortified  areas,  46,  57 
infantry  in,  76 

of  islands,  by  Japanese,  51,52 
of  islands,  under  siege  conditions,  46 
Japanese  methods,  52 
against  naval  counterattack,  53 
in  Philippines  by  United  States,  44-46 
of  river  line,  53 

Dehydrated  foods,  development,  1 18 
Delaying  actions 

on  grand  scale,  77,  8 1 , 82 
in  Philippines  by  United  States,  44-46 
Rabaul  as  example,  49,  50 
Demobilization 

construction  activity,  106 
industrial,  1 18 
military,  23 

Demolition  teams  on  Okinawa,  56-57 
Dependents,  transportation  of,  127 
Deployment.  See  also  Redeployment, 
comparison  with  World  War  I,  22 
concepts  of,  6,  7,  9 
global,  of  ground  forces,  22 
Depot  facilities 

engineer  provision  of,  107 
Ordnance  Department  system,  1 15 
procedures,  improved,  123 
shipment  from,  to  troops,  115-16 
Destroyer-Base  Agreement,  37,  137 
Devers,  Lt.  Gen.  Jacob,  8 1-82 
Diplomacy  and  negotiation 
with  American  republics,  37 
with  Canada,  136^37 
with  China,  94 
Stilwell’s  problems,  95 
techniques  of,  9 
U.S.  role  in,  8 

Wedemeyer’s  problems,  95 


Direction,  loss  of,  140 
Disaster  relief,  1 12 
Discipline,  82 

Disease,  effect  on  troops,  48 
Division,  Armored,  7th,  1 39 
Division,  armored,  as  striking  force,  76 
Division,  infantry.  See  also  Divisions;  Divisions, 
Infantry. 

amphibious  envelopment  by,  54 
building  and  training,  24 
in  offensive,  49-50, 63, 80-84 
redeployment  experience,  typical.  23 
Division  operations  in  Normandy,  74 
Divisions.  See  also  Division,  infantry;  Divisions, 
Infantry. 

light,  experiment  with,  23 
ninety-division  decision,  8-9 
stripping  for  replacements,  25 
Divisions,  Infantry 
5th,  139 
28th.  1 39 
85th,  139 
99th.  80 
106th.  80 
black,  135 
Dod.KariC.,  106 
Dogs,  use  in  war,  1 19 

DRAGOON.  See  Southern  France  Campaign. 

Driver  training,  127 
Dziuban,  Stanley  W.,  136 

Economy,  national 

relation  of  QMC  to,  1  17-18 
transition  to  war  production,  14—15 
Economy,  wartime 

civilian-versus-military  control  of,  15,  30, 

125 

relation  to  strategic  planning,  7, 9,  12-14 
transition  to  peace  production,  15 
Economy  of  force,  jeopardized  by  specialization,  21- 
22  *• 

Egypt,  61 

Eisenhower,  General  of  the  Army  Dwight  D.,  5,  74, 
77,81-82 

controversies  with  Montgomery,  73,  83 
decisions,  history  of,  70, 7 1-73,  86 
Elbe  River,  drive  to,  7 1 , 83 
Electronics,  development,  1 22 
Elsenbom  ridge,  80 
Emergency  period 

CWS,  expansion  during,  102 
engineer  training  during,  105 
rearmament  during,  4 
Signal  Corps  in,  1 21-24 
training  of  combat  units,  22 
Enemy  actions,  effect  on  strategic  planning, 

43-14 

Enemy  aliens  in  U.S.,  37,  38 
Engelman,  Rose  C.,  37 


INDEX 


159 


Engineer  amphibian  brigades,  105 
Engineer  operations 

bridging  operations,  81,  108,  109,  140 
in  CBI,  95,  107 

combat  operations,  107,  108,  109 
equipment  development  for,  105.  108 
in  ETO.  108-09 
in  infantry  role,  8 1 , 99,  1 39 
in  Mediterranean  theater,  108-09 
in  Philippines  recovery,  53,  107,  108 
at  river  lines,  78,  108,  109 
Engineer  special  brigades,  108 
2d, 107 
3d, 107 
4th,  107 

Engineers,  Corps  of,  99, 104-09, 139—40 
and  atomic  bomb,  142 
boat  and  shore  operations,  1 07 
Eniwetok,  50 

Enlisted  strength  in  units,  23 
Enveloping  maneuvers 

amphibious,  infantry  division  in,  54 
in  Europe,  8 1 
in  jungle  operations,  53 
Equipment.  See  also  Materiel;  Weapons, 
bridging,  108.  109 
captured  enemy,  120 
communications,  list  of,  123 
communications,  protection  of,  124 
comparison  of  U.S.  and  German,  1 16 
construction,  107,  108 
delivery  to  Allies,  138 

engineering,  development  of,  99,  104-05,  107,  108, 
109 

evaluation  of,  in  combat,  1 16-17,  120 
quartermaster,  in  Philippine  Army,  1 19 
reduction  in  bulk,  1 17 
shortages,  25,  140 
transport,  mobilization  of,  126 
transport,  shortages  in,  126 
transportation  of,  to  theaters,  1 27 
Europe 

nature  of  combat  in,  139 
plans  to  invade,  10-11 
U.S.  preoccupation  with.  36 
“Europe  First”  policy,  43,  44 
European  Theater  of  Operations  (ETO) 
black  units  in,  135-36 
civil  affairs  administration,  134 
comparison  with  Pacific  theater,  1 16 
engineer  role  in,  108-09 
logistical  support  in,  12,  14,71,84—86 
Medical  Department  role  in,  1 1 1-12 
operations  in,  69-86 
ordnance  support,  116-17 
pictorial  record,  147 
Quartermaster  Corps  operations,  1 20-2 1 
regimental  operations,  139 
SHAEF,  role  in,  71-73 


Evacuation,  medical,  1 10-13, 140 

forecasting  casualties  from  overseas,  1 10 
role  of  transportation  in.  109-10 
Expeditionary  forces 
Army  plans  for,  37 
size  for  overseas  war,  22,  23 
Exploitation  of  opportunity,  55 

Fairchild,  Byron,  16,  35,  37 
Falaise-Argentan  pocket,  70,  76 
Field  artillery,  employment,  47 
Field  artillery  support.  See  Artillery  support. 

Field  commands.  See  Commands. 

Financing,  military  and  industrial  facilities,  15,  113-14 

Fine,  Lenore,  105 

Fire,  reluctance  to,  by  soldier,  140 

Firepower,  U.S.,  unparalleled  on  Okinawa,  56 

First  Special  Service  Force,  137 

Fisher,  Ernest  F.,  Jr.,  65 

Fisher,  George  J.  B..  101 

Fixed-price  contracts,  15 

Flamethrowers 

development,  102,  103,  104 
on  Okinawa,  57 
tactical  use,  53,  79,  103,  104 
Food 

control  of,  by  Army,  1 19 
dehydrated,  1 1 8 
for  prisoners  of  war,  1 20-2 1 
problem  among  Allies,  138 
for  troops,  120-21 

Foreign  relations.  See  also  Diplomacy  and  negotiation. 
China  as  factor  in,  9 
toward  China,  95 
consideration  by  SHAEF,  72 
coordination  with  strategic  planning,  4,  6 
France  and  United  States,  138 
relation  to  strategic  planning,  7,  9 
Foreigners,  use  in  war  industry,  17 
Forest  fighting,  70,  78,  79,  80 
Formosa,  decision  to  bypass,  55 
Fortified  areas 

armament  obsoleteness  in,  45 
armor  operations  in,  77 
artillery  bombardment  of,  74, 76,  140 
assault  and  defense  of,  46, 47,  57,  74,  76,  77,  79, 
108,  109 

small-unit  attacks  on,  48 
Fortified  islands.  See  Island  warfare. 

France,  62, 63, 1 37-38 
Franco- American  Riviera  Force,  81,  110 
Freight  traffic,  control  of,  1 26 
French  Morocco,  61.  134 

French  North  Africa.  See  Northwest  Africa,  campaign 
in. 

Frequency  modulation,  introduction,  123 

Garland,  Albert  N„  62 
Gas  warfare,  103-04 


160 


READER’S  GUIDE 


Gasoline  shortage  in  European  theater,  84 
Gaulle,  General  Charles  de,  conflict  with  Giraud,  1 38 
General  classification  tests,  24 
General  Headquarters,  1940-42.6 
activation,  21 

in  control  of  overseas  commands,  23 
General  purpose-versus-specialized  units,  23 
Germany 

command  decisions  by,  64.  66,  77,  78 
counterattack  methods,  79-81,  140 
drive  to  border,  70, 75-77 
medical  services,  1 10 
mine  warfare  by,  108 

nature  and  extent  of  threat  to  United  States,  36 
occupied,  109,  1 1 1 
as  primary  enemy,  6,  8 
Redoubt,  Alpine,  71 
research  and  development  by,  114 
resistance  in  Italy,  64—66 
strategic  planning,  72,  80 
tactics  in  Sicily,  63, 64 
Gilberts  and  Marshalls  Campaign,  50-5 1 
Giogo  Pass,  139 

Giraud,  General  Henri,  conflict  with  de  Gaulle,  1 38 
Global  warfare.  See  also  Allies;  Coalition  warfare, 
adaptation  of  QMC  products  to,  117-18 
communications  in.  122,  124 
Normandy,  effect  on,  9 
shipping  allocation,  conflict  in,  90 
strategic  planning,  competition,  85 
strategic  planning  for,  7,  10-14 
transportation  in,  10,  13 
U.S.  transition  to,  36 
Gona,  drive  on,  48 
Gothic  Line,  65 
Government-seized  plants,  16 
Graves  Registration  Command,  121 
Green,  Constance  McLaughlin,  1 13 
Greenfield,  Kent  Roberts,  21 

Greenland,  decision  to  participate  in  defense  of,  37,  38 

GRENADE,  7 1 

Grossman,  Jonathan,  16 

Ground  forces.  See  also  Troop  units. 

air  supply  and  support  of,  1 2, 48, 49,  52, 53,  56,  57, 
63-64,  76,  78, 95 

artillery  support  of,  49, 52, 53, 57, 76, 78,  1 39^40 
attack  on  artillery  units,  76 
automatic  resupply  of,  120 
logistic  interaction  with  air  and  naval  logistics,  12 
naval  gunfire  support  of,  49, 53, 56-57, 74 
organization,  21-25 
procurement  and  training,  23-25 
Groves,  Maj.  Gen.  Leslie  R.,  142 
Guadalcanal  Campaign,  46-48,  1 13 
Guam,  recovery  of,  51-52 
Guerrilla  forces 

cooperation  with  regulars,  54-55, 56, 74 
in  Prance,  74,  82,  138 
on  Leyte,  54— 55 


Guerrilla  forces — Continued 
medical  services  to,  113 
Gugeler,  Russell  A.,  56 
Gustav  Line,  65 

Halsey,  Admiral  William  P.,  49 
Handy,  Lt.  Gen.  Thomas  T..  5 
Hara-kiri,  58 

Harbor  defenses,  U.S.,  37 
Harris,  Dixie  R.,  121 
Harrison,  Gordon  A.,  73 
Hastie,  William  H.,  1 35 
Hawaii 

drive  into  Pacific  from,  50 
under  martial  law,  120 
preparations  for  defense  of,  37,  38,  107,  108 
as  supply  base,  1 19 
Hawley,  Maj.  Gen.  Paul  R.,  1  1 1 
Headquarters.  See  also  Command;  Staffs  and  staff 
procedures. 

integrated,  for  coalition  warfare,  62, 72-73 
organization  and  size,  23,  31 
personality  conflicts  in,  85,  86 
problems  in  directing,  72-73 
Heavy  artillery  program,  23 
Hedgerows,  battle  of  the,  70,  75,  76 
Hitler,  attitude  toward  Normandy,  74 
Hobby,  Col.  Oveta  Culp,  140 
Holley,  Irving  Brinton,  jr.,  132 
Hospitalization,  in  zone  of  interior,  109-10 
Hospitals,  109-13 
Howe,  George  P.,  6 1 
Huertgen  Porest  battles,  70,  79,  139 
Hull,  Lt.  Gen.  John  E.,  5 
"Hump”  supply  operations,  94 
Hurley,  Maj.  Gen.  Patrick  J.,  94 
HUSKY.  Sec  Sicily  Campaign. 

Iceland,  plans  for  action  in,  37,  38 
Imports  to  United  Kingdom,  impact  of,  1 1 
Incendiaries,  development,  102 
India 

air  supply  to  China  from,  94,  107 
logistical  problems  in,  1 1 
strategic  air  support  from,  95 
as  supply  base,  11,  107 
India-Burma  Theater,  95,  107 
Individual  training,  24 
Indochina,  attempt  to  liberate,  138 
Industry.  See  also  Labor,  industrial;  Production, 
aircraft,  1 32-33 
automobile,  132-33 

capacity  and  expansion  in  communications,  123 

competition  for  materiel  with.  105 

compulsory-versus-voluntary  service  in,  17 

construction  for,  by  Army,  106 

cooperation  with  Army,  117-18, 132-33, 143 

facilities,  financing,  15 

relations  with  Ordnance  Department,  1 15 


INDEX 


161 


Industry — Continued 

role  in  chemical  production,  102-03 
Signal  Corps  contributions  to,  1 22-23 
Infantry  tactics.  See  Ground  forces;  Tactics. 

Initiative 

in  Ardennes,  regaining  of,  73 
at  Guadalcanal,  46-47 
in  Papua,  48 

in  Northwest  Africa,  61-62 
Inland  waterways,  use  of,  127 
Insect-borne  disease,  1 1 1 
Inspection 

of  communications  equipment,  124 
of  supplies,  1 18 

Intelligence  operations,  53,  57,  82 

in  combat,  inadequate,  55-56, 79,  80,  8 1 ,  139 
strategic,  105 

in  technical  developments,  1 14 
International  political  policy,  military  role  in, 

134 

Interservice  cooperation,  52,  90 
Iran,  11,89-90, 128 
Island  warfare 

amphibious  operations,  50-5 1 , 63 
armor-infantry  coordination,  5 1 
assaults,  53, 54,  56,  57,  63 
engineer  role  in,  107 
logistical  planning,  53,  54,  120 
medical  support  for,  1 1 2 
under  siege  conditions,  46 
small-unit  actions,  51-52 
supply  operations  in,  120 

Italian  campaign,  64-66, 108,  109,  1 10,  1 1 1, 1 16-17, 
120 

Italy 

occupied,  1 10-1 1,134 
surrender  of,  62-64, 65 
Iwo  Jima,  seizure  of,  56 

Japan 

and  China,  94 

command  system,  43, 44 

Corps  of  Engineers  in  the  war  against,  106-08 

estimate  of  U.S.  troops,  47 

fleet  operations  in  Pacific,  51-52 

interests  in  the  Pacific,  43,  44 

lines  of  communications  severed,  54 

logistic-strategic  planning  for  war  against,  12,  14 

medical  services  in  the  war  against,  1 12-13 

nature  and  extent  of  threat  to  United  States,  36 

occupied,  1 13 

offensive  plans  and  operations,  43^44, 47, 48, 5 1 , 

55- 56 

Okinawa  defensive  system,  56-58 
organization,  strategy,  weapons,  43^14, 50, 5 1 , 55, 

56- 58 

planning  for  final  defeat  of,  6,  8 
redeployment  against,  21 
strategic  planning  by,  43,  44,  53,  56 


Japan — Continued 

strategy  in  defending  Philippines,  53,  55 
Japanese  Americans 
internment  of,  37,  38 
use  in  U.S.  forces,  65 
Joint  Aircraft  Committee,  132 
Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  (JCS) 

anticipations  regarding  Rabaul,  49 
Chief  of  Staff  as  member,  5 
coordination  of  Pacific  operations,  50 
plans  for  Philippines  recovery,  53 
relation  to  Supreme  Commander,  72 
role  in  logistics,  10,  12 
role  in  rearming  French,  138 
strategic  concepts  of  the,  44 
theater-versus-grand  strategy  problems,  47 
Joint  operations 

Army-Navy  logistical  organization,  10,  11, 

13 

base  facilities  for,  137 
command  relations  in,  44,  52,  53 
coordination  of  logistical  operations,  10,  13 
in  Philippines  recovery,  52-53 
planning  for,  43-44, 63-64, 82 
problems  at  SH  AEF,  71-72 
psychological  factors  in.  137 
task  forces  in,  62 
unity  of  command  in,  43^-4, 72 
in  Western  Hemisphere  defense,  36-37 
Joint  staff  committees,  6 
Jones,  Vincent  C.,  141 

Jungle  operations.  See  also  Tropical  warfare, 
engineer  role  in,  106-08 
enveloping  maneuvers,  53 
at  Guadalcanal,  47 

tactical  problems  and  techniques,  47, 49 
Jurisdiction,  questions  among  Allies,  137 

Kamikaze  attacks,  55, 57, 58 
Keast,  William  R.,  23 
Kenney,  Lt.  Gen.  George  C.,  54 
Kieffer,  Chester  L.,  1 17 
King,  Maj.  Gen.  Edward  P.,  Jr.,  45 
King,  Admiral  Ernest  J.,  1 2 
Kleber,  Brooks  E.,  103 
Krueger,  Lt.  Gen.  Walter,  54,  55, 56 
Kwajalein,  seizure  of,  50 

Labor,  industrial 

administration  and  management,  16-17 
local,  use  overseas,  85. 86, 90,  1 27-28 
Signal  Corps,  supply  problems,  124 
unions,  in  construction  trades,  106 
Laboratory  for  Development  of  Substitute  Materials 
(DSM),  142 
Landing  craft 

amphibian,  13,  14,51,52,84 
operators  for,  1 04 
problems  in  1 942 — 43,  1 1 


162 


READER’S  GUIDE 


Landing  craft — Continued 
shortages,  effect  of,  74 
used  in  shipping,  13,  14 
Landing  mats,  procurement,  104 
Landings,  assault.  See  Amphibious  operations. 
Language  barrier  among  Allies,  1 38 
Larson,  Harold,  127 
Latin  America,  14,35-38 
Laundry  operations,  1 18,  1 19,  120 
Ledo  Road,  94,  107 
Lee,  Ulysses,  135 
Leighton,  Richard  M.,  10,  12 
Lend-lease,  12 

administration,  1 1 , 30 
to  China,  14,93-95 
extent  and  effect,  123 
to  Latin  America,  14 
to  liberated  nations,  14 
origin  and  adoption,  4 
to  Soviet  Union,  11,  14,89-90 
of  transport  facilities,  126 
Leyte,  recovery  of,  54-55 
Leyte  Gulf  naval  battle,  54 
Liberated  areas,  13,  14,  109,  121.  134 
Libya,  61 

Limited  attacks,  armor  in,  78 
Limited-service  men,  25 
Limited  war,  effect  on  deployment,  7,  9 
Lines  of  communications 
with  China,  93,  108 
Japan-Southeast  Asia,  severed,  54 
to  Pacific  theater,  107,  108,  1 19 
problems  of,  95 
in  remote  areas,  108 
transport  over,  difficulties  in,  1 27 
U.S. -Australian,  46-47 
Liquor  ration,  120 

Littlejohn,  Maj.  Gen.  Robert  M.,  1 20-2 1 
Loading  and  unloading  operations,  125 
Logistical  planning  and  operations,  3^4, 10-14, 29-3 1 
amphibious,  5 1 , 52,  82 
battle  efficiency,  relation  to,  49 
central  administration,  evolution  of,  10-11 
construction,  relation  to,  107,  108,  109 
dependence  of  tactical  strength  on,  47,  120 
engineer  role  in,  107,  108-09 
in  ETO.  71,78,81, 84-86,  1 20-2 1 
facilities  constructed  by  Allies,  137 
German  failures,  8 1 
improvised  methods,  48 
in  India-Burma  Theater,  95,  107 
for  island  warfare,  54,  107,  120 
joint  Army-Navy  organization  for,  10,  1 1, 53 
in  mobile  warfare,  76,  84,  85,  86,  107 
for  Normandy,  7 1 ,73-74, 84-85 
in  Philippines  fall,  45 
in  Philippines  recovery,  53 
relation  to  capacity  for  resistance,  46 
for  support  of  China-based  B-29s,  94,  107 


Logistics 

combat,  relation  to,  84-86 
global,  and  strategy,  10-14 
Lorraine  campaign,  effect  on,  77 
strategy,  relation  to,  9, 10-14, 30 
Lorraine  campaign,  70, 77-78, 82 
Love,  Edmund  G.,  50 
Lutes,  Maj.  Gen.  Leroy,  12 
Luzon,  45^6 
Lynch,  Charles  W.,  108 
Lyon,  drive  to,  81 

Maas  River,  79 

MacArthur,  General  of  the  Army  Douglas 
departs  from  ORANGE  Plan,  45 
directs  Rabaul  reduction,  49 
first  offensive  under,  48 
return  to  Philippines,  54, 55-56 
role  in  strategic  planning,  12,  107 
McCloy,  John  J.,  135 
MacDonald,  Charles  B„  78,  83,  1 39 
Machinery 

construction,  procurement  of,  104 
materials-handling,  119 
McNair,  Lt.  Gen.  Lesley  J.,  21-22, 24, 29 
Maginot  Line  forts,  assault  on,  77 
Maintenance 

management  of  shops,  116,  117 
of  spare  parts  stocks,  104,  105,  123,  127 
in  transportation  facilities,  127 
Makin,  seizure  of,  50 
Management 

of  industrial  labor,  16-17 
use  of  “control”  agency  device,  30 
Maneuver,  war  of.  See  Mobile  warfare. 
Maneuvers,  as  training  device,  25 
Manhattan  Project,  106,  1 4 1  — 43 
Manila,  recapture  of,  55-56 
Manpower.  See  also  Labor,  industrial. 
American  superiority  of,  83 
and  Army,  16-17 
economical  use  of,  85,  86 
influence  on  strategy,  9 
limitations  in,  effect  on  mobilization,  8,  22 
mobilizing,  10 

in  producing  chemical  weapons,  102 
in  transport  agencies,  126 
Signal  Corps  problems,  123-24 
skilled.  Corps  of  Engineers  need  for,  104 
for  theater  services,  90 
Mapping  instruments,  procurement,  104 
Maps 

preparation  and  supply,  105 
production  by  engineers,  104 
Marianas  campaign,  51-52 
Marine  Corps 

Army  units  under,  53 

on  Okinawa,  57 

in  the  Pacific  theater,  43,  52 


INDEX 


163 


Marine  Corps — Continued 
in  Philippines,  45 
Women’s  Reserve,  141 
MARKET-GARDEN,  70, 78-79 
Marseille,  seizure  of,  8 1 
Marshall,  General  of  the  Army  George  C.,  135 
control  of  Army,  4-6 
ninety-division  decision,  8-9 
plans  and  preparations,  3-4 
role  in  strategic  planning,  12 
Martial  law,  120 
Materials,  raw,  shortages  of,  114 
Materiel.  See  also  Armament,  obsolete;  Equipment; 
Weapons. 

allocation  and  distribution,  10,  11,  12-14 
allocation  in  military  aid,  10,  12-14 
American,  superiority  of,  14,  84 
for  chemical  warfare,  development,  1 02-03 
competition  with  industry  in,  105 
development,  philosophy  of,  114 
shipment  from  depot  to  troops,  1 16 
shortages,  123 
for  theater  services,  90 
transportation  of,  12-14,  126 
Mathews,  Sidney  T.,  139 
Matloff,  Maurice,  6,  8 
Mayo,  Lida,  1 08,  114,116 

Mechanization,  effect  on  transportability  and  mobility, 
23 

Medical  Department 
in  ETO,  111-12 

in  Mediterranean  theater,  110-11 
in  Pacific  theater,  112-13 
women,  use  by,  141 
in  zone  of  interior,  1 09- 1 0 
Medical  services.  See  also  Evacuation,  medical; 
Hospitals;  Preventive  medicine, 
in  occupied  countries,  110-11,  112 
in  Philippines  recovery,  53 
to  prisoners  of  war,  110,  111 
vehicles  for,  1 10 

Mediterranean  Theater  of  Operations 
civil  affairs  administration,  134 
engineer  role  in,  108-09 
Medical  Department  role  in,  1 10-1 1 
operations  in,  13,61-66,82 
ordnance  support,  116-17 
Pacific,  comparison  with,  9 
pictorial  record,  147 
quartermaster  operations,  120 
strategic-logistical  planning  for,  1 3 
Merrill’s  Marauders,  94 
Messages.  See  Communications. 

Messina,  race  for,  63 

Metz,  assault  on,  77,  139 

Meuse  River,  drive  to  and  crossing  of,  77,  80 

Mexico,  collaboration  with  United  States,  36 

Middle  East  Theater,  1  1,89-90 

Midway,  battle  for,  38, 48 


Miles,  Wyndham  D.,  102 
Military  aid.  See  also  Lend-lease, 
to  Allies,  3, 4 
allocation  of  materiel,  10 
to  American  republics,  14,  36 
to  China,  14,93-95 
to  France,  137-38 
by  France  to  United  States,  137 
to  Iran,  89-90 
to  liberated  nations,  14 
shortages  in,  10 
to  Soviet  Union,  14,  89-90 
in  transport  facilities,  127 
Military  facilities,  financing,  15 
Military  government,  72,  73,  109,  134 
Military  power,  U.S.,  expansion  of,  10 
Miller,  John,  jr„  46, 48 
Millett,  John  D.,  29 
Milne  Bay,  48 
Milner,  Samuel,  48 
Mine  warfare,  108,  109 

Minorities,  use  in  war  industry,  17.  See  also  Black 
troops. 

Mission,  advisory,  to  Iran,  90 
Mobile  warfare 

armor  and  infantry  in,  65,  66,  76,  84 

effect  of  mechanization  and  motorization,  23,  84 

in  ETO,  75-76, 8 1,84 

on  Leyte,  54-55 

logistical  support  in,  81, 84,  85,  86,  120-21 
medical  services  during,  1 1 1 
motor  transport  in  support  of,  128 
ordnance  support  of,  116-17 
Mobilization,  economic 
of  Allies,  137 
Army  and,  14—16 
ASFrolein,  14-15 
of  transport  equipment,  126 
Mobilization,  industrial.  See  also  Demobilization, 
industrial. 

aircraft  production,  132-33 
civilian-military  relationships  in,  30,  132—33 
nationwide  planning  for,  15 
prewar  planning  for,  14-15,  133 
and  public  opinion,  16 
Mobilization,  military,  3, 4,  10 
comparison  with  World  War  I,  22 
effect  of  changes  in  war  plans  on,  21-22 
of  ground  forces,  21-22 
U.S.  weakness  during,  37 
Monte  Altuzzo,  breakthrough  at,  1 39-A0 
Monte  Cassino,  bombing  of,  64,  65 
Montgomery,  Field  Marshal  Sir  Bernard  L.,  72,  80,  82 
controversies  with  Eisenhower,  73,  83 
Morale 

in  combat,  56,  82,  136,  140 
effect  of  enemy  command  of  air  and  sea  on,  46 
effect  of  racial  segregation  on,  135,  136 
Morgan,  Lt.  Gen.  Sir  Frederick  E.,  74 


164 


READER’S  GUIDE 


Mortain,  German  counterattack,  70 
Mortars,  chemical,  102 
Morton,  Louis,  43, 44 

Moselle  River,  drive  to  and  crossing,  77,  139 
Motorization,  effect  on  transportability  and  mobility, 
23 

Motter,  T.  H.  Vail,  89 

Mountain  warfare,  62, 63, 64, 63-66, 81-82,  109,  139 

Mountbatten,  Admiral  Lord  Louis,  94 

Munitions.  See  Equipment;  Materiel;  Weapons. 

Murmansk  route,  89 

Mussolini,  63 

Myitkyina,  drive  on,  94 

National  Defense  Advisory  Commission,  133 
National  Defense  Research  Committee  (NDRC),  142 
National  Security  Act  of  1947,  6 
National  service  legislation,  16 
Naval  bases 

seizure  in  Marianas,  51 
seizure  in  New  Guinea  area,  48 
seizure  in  Pacific,  50 
Naval  coordination  in  Marianas,  52 
Naval  gunfire  support 

in  amphibious  operations,  5 1 , 52,  57,  74 
in  Gilberts-Marshalls,  50-5 1 
of  ground  forces,  49,  53,  56,  57,  62 
in  Philippines  recovery,  52-53 
Naval  operations 

in  amphibious  operations,  5 1 , 52,  57,  74 
in  Guadalcanal  Campaign,  47 
in  Pacific  theater,  43-44, 49-58 
Negro  Troop  Policies,  Advisory  Committee  on,  1 35 
Nelson,  Donald  M„  29-30 
Netherlands,  operations  in,  70, 78-79 
Neutrals,  problem  of,  9 

New  Guinea  area,  48,  52-55.  107,  116.  See  also 
Papua  Campaign. 

New  Zealand  as  supply  base,  1  19 
Newfoundland,  relation  to  Canada,  1 37 
Night  operations,  8 1 
Nimitz,  Admiral  Chester  W.,  50 
Nondivisional  units,  training,  24 
NORDWIND.  82 

Normandy  Campaign,  13,70,73-75,84—85, 108-09, 
116-17 

North  Atlantic,  U.S.  outposts  in  the,  37,  38,  1 10 
North  Italy  incident,  138 
Northern  France,  breakout  and  pursuit,  70, 75-77 
Northwest  Africa,  campaign  in,  38, 61-62,  1 38 
civil  affairs  administration,  1 34 
effect  of  decision  for,  7,  1 1 
engineer  role  in,  108,  109 
logistical  problems,  1 1 
medical  services  in,  1 10-1 1 
Normandy  Campaign,  effect  on,  85 
ordnance  support,  1 1 6 
plans  for,  6 

quartermaster  operations,  120 


Oakes,  Pauline  M.,  121 

Occupied  territories,  U.S.,  13, 14,  109,  I  10-1  1 ,  112, 
1  13, 134 

Offensive  operations.  See  also  Assault  tactics; 
Tactics. 

Guadalcanal  as  first,  46-47 
Japanese,  in  China,  94 
Japanese  plans  and  operations,  47, 48,  50,  5 1 
Marshall’s  plans  for,  8 
Officer  candidate  schools,  24,  25 
Officers 
black,  135 

commission  and  promotion,  4 
procurement  policies  and  problems,  24,  105 
training  program,  3,  105 
Okinawa  Campaign,  56-58,  1  16 
Operations  Division  (OPD),  4-6,  1 2, 29 
Oppenheimer,  J.  Robert,  142 
ORANGE  Plan,  7 
abandonment,  50 
failure,  46 

Ordnance  Department,  1 13-17 
Organization.  See  also  Reorganization, 
of  airborne  forces,  23 
of  aircraft  procurement,  1 33 
Allied  policy,  changes  required  by,  90 
Army  General  Staff,  1947,  6 
of  ASF,  29-3 1 
of  beachhead  defense,  47 
of  black  troops,  136 

continental  United  States,  for  defense  of,  23 
for  control  of  Army,  4 
ofCWS,  101 

of  construction  activities,  105-09 

of  defensive  area,  140 

at  division  level,  83-84 

engineer  troop  units,  105,  108,  109 

in  ETO,  84-86, 120-21 

of  ground  forces,  21-23 

of  hospitals,  109 

Japanese,  in  Pacific,  50, 58 

joint  and  combined  agencies,  10 

for  joint  operations,  53 

of  Manhattan  Project,  1 42 — 43 

of  medical  services,  111,  112,  113 

for  military  role  in  civil  administration,  134 

of  new  combat  arms,  22,  25 

of  Ordnance  Department,  1  14,  1 15.  1 16-17 

personality  conflicts  in,  85.  86 

plans,  for  Army,  3—4 

of  procurement  agencies,  15 

ofQMC,  1 17-2  U 

of  service  schools,  24,  25 

of  Signal  Corps,  122,  123 

territorial,  in  theaters,  85 

of  a  theater,  90,  95 

of  Transportation  Corps.  124—28 

of  U.S.  Army,  1939-31,37 

U.S.  Army-Navy,  in  Canada,  137 


INDEX 


165 


Organization — Continued 
of  War  Department,  5,  6 
of  zone  of  interior  in  wartime,  30 
Overhead,  struggle  against,  23 
OVERLORD.  See  Normandy  Campaign. 

Overseas  war,  size  of  force  for,  22,  23 

Pacific  Ocean  Areas  (POA),  naval  operations  by,  54 
Pacific  theater 

Allied  interests  in,  43-^14 
China  as  air  base  for,  93,  94 
demand  for  flamethrowers,  104 
deployment  for  unlimited  war,  effect  on,  7 
engineer  role  in,  106-08 
lines  of  communications  to,  119 
logistical  problems  in,  1 1,  14 
Medical  Department  role  in,  1 12-13 
Mediterranean,  comparison  with,  9 
operations  in,  13,41-58 
pictorial  record,  147 
QMC  operations  in,  1 19-20 
reinforcement  of,  10-1 1,  13 
Packaging  and  packing,  118,  124 
Palau  Islands  seizure,  52 
Palermo,  63 

Palmer,  Robert  R.,  2 1 , 23 

Panama  Canal  Zone,  preparations  for  the  defense  of, 
37,38,  107-08 
Panic,  study  of,  140 
Papua  Campaign,  48,  1 07,  1 1 3,  1 1 6 
Paris,  liberation  of,  70,  76 
Patents  and  licensing  agreements,  124 
Patrolling,  140 

Patton,  Lt.  Gen.  George  S.,  Jr.,  63, 64,  77 
Pearl  Harbor,  attack  on.  37,  38 
staff  failure  as  factor,  6 
War  Department  responsibility,  4 
Peel  Marshes,  clearing  of,  70 
Perimeter  defense  tactics,  80 
Persian  Corridor,  supply  through,  89-90 
Personality  conflicts  in  organization,  85,  86 
Personnel 

assignment  of,  23-25,  1 18 
black,  65, 105, 108, 135-36 
personal  services  and  comforts,  120 
quality  of  troops,  23-25 
reluctance  to  fire,  140 
training  program,  4, 23-25 
transportation  of,  1 26 

Philippine  Army,  quartermaster  equipment,  1 19 
Philippines,  fall  of,  43-46 
decision  to  reinforce,  4 
logistical  unpreparedness,  1 20 
Philippines,  recovery  of,  52-56, 107-08, 116-17 
Photographic  history  of  World  War  II,  147 
Photography,  123 

Physical  fitness  of  minority  soldiers,  136 

Physical  Profile  System,  25 

Pigeons,  use  in  communication,  122,  124 


Pipelines 

to  China,  94,  107 
expansion  in  Iran,  90 

Planning.  See  also  Strategic  planning;  Tactical 
planning. 

for  amphibious  operations,  47,  57 
for  beach  breakout  under  observation,  66 
for  chemical  warfare,  101-04 
by  Chief  of  Staff,  3^1 
for  civil  affairs  administration,  134 
communications  underestimated  in,  122 
coordination  with  industry,  4 
coordination  of  medical  and  operational,  111,  112 
engineer  role  in,  109 
for  industrial  mobilization,  14—15,  133 
integration  of  Army-Navy-AAF  plans,  7,  9 
for  joint  operations,  43^44 
for  labor  problems,  16-17 
for  logistical  support,  120-21 
long-range,  for  production,  1 15 
by  Ordnance  Department,  1 1 3-14 
prewar,  43,  133 
for  procurement,  103,  133 
strategy  and  logistics,  relation  of,  30,  78 
for  transport  in  theaters,  125,  127 
for  use  of  atomic  bomb,  143 
for  use  of  black  troops,  135 
Pogue,  Forrest  C.,  71 
Point  system  in  redeployment,  23 
POL  products,  distribution,  104,  109 
Policy  decisions 
by  Allies  in  1941, 6 
on  chemical  warfare,  101-02 
of  President,  prewar,  3, 4 
Politics,  relation  to  military  decisions,  44,  82 
Port  facilities,  125 
artificial,  85 

construction  and  repair,  104—05,  107,  108,  127 
control  of,  1 25 
in  ETO,  84-85, 86 
Ports  of  embarkation 
operation,  125,  126 
relations  with  theater,  121 
staging  areas  at,  126 
Prejudice,  problems  with,  1 35-36 
Preparedness.  See  Combat  readiness;  Rearmament; 
Unpreparedness. 

Preventive  medicine,  110,  111,  112 
Pricing 

articles  in  contracts,  103 
problems  in,  15 

progressive,  origin  and  development,  15 
Priorities 

in  buildup  of  supplies,  85,  86 
“Europe  First”  policy,  43-44 
evolution  and  administration  of  system,  15 
Prisoners  of  war 

food  and  clothing  for,  1 20-2 1 
medical  care  of,  1 1 1 ,  1 1 2,  1 1 3 


166 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Prisoners  of  war — Continued 
transportation  of,  1 27 
use  in  war  industry,  17 
Procurement 

of  aircraft,  132-33 
of  animals,  118,  119 
civilian-military  relations  in,  15,  30 
by  Corps  of  Engineers,  104,  105,  106 
of  ground  combat  troops,  23-25 
local,  overseas,  95,  119,  120,  121 
of  officers,  24,  105 

Ordnance  Department  methods,  114—16 
patents  and  licensing  agreements,  124 
planning  for,  1 03 
prewar  restrictions  on,  132,  133 
byQMC,  117-19 
of  replacements,  24,  76 
by  Signal  Corps,  124 
War  Department  planning  for,  15 
Production 

of  aircraft,  132-33 

Allies,  coordination  among,  137 

of  atomic  bomb,  141-43 

civilian-military  relations  in,  10,  106 

construction  for,  106,  132,  133 

expediting,  1 18 

of  fissionable  materials,  143 

improvements,  conflict  with,  122 

military  planning,  coordination  with,  4,  13,  14,  133 

Ordnance  Department  methods,  114—16 

byQMC,  117-19 

relation  of  requirements  to,  13,  14 
strategy,  correlation  with,  7, 9,  13,  14 
time  lag  in,  1 14 

transition  of  industry  to  wartime,  14—16, 

132-33 

United  States  as  leader  in,  14 
Production  Management,  Office  of,  1 33 
Promotion  of  officers,  4 
Propaganda,  use  of  leaflets  in,  140 
Property,  surplus,  disposal  of,  1 19 
Psychiatry,  combat,  1 10,  1 1  1 
Psychological  factors  in  joint  operations,  1 37 
Psychological  warfare,  73,  140 
PT  boats  in  Philippines  recovery,  53 
Public  health.  111,  113 
Public  opinion 

and  imminence  of  war,  3 
and  mobilization  of  labor,  16 
Public  relations,  73 

Public  utilities,  conversion  to  wartime  use,  125 
Pursuit  operations 
in  Italy,  66 
support  for,  121 

QUADRANT  (Quebec)  Conference,  6 
Quartermaster  Corps  (QMC),  1  17-21 
Quebec  Conferences,  6,  8, 63 
QUEEN,  79 


Rabaul,  reduction  of,  44, 46, 48, 49 
Racial  integration.  136 
Racial  stereotyping,  135,  136 
Racial  violence,  135-36 
Radar,  122,  123,  124 
Radios,  122,  123,  124 
Railroads,  125 

in  ETO,  81, 84-85,  109 
operation  by  Transportation  Corps,  125 
payment  for  use  of,  90 
repair  of,  109,  127 
RAINBOW  Plan,  7 
Rapido  River  crossing,  64 
Rations,  development,  1 18 
Real  estate  acquisition,  106 
Rearmament 

demands  of,  3,  4 
of  France,  62, 137-38 
Reconnaissance  in  force,  50 
Recruiting,  3, 4 

of  black  Americans,  135,  136 
in  Corps  of  Engineers,  105 
of  industrial  labor,  16-17 
for  QMC,  1 18 
Red  Ball  Express,  85 
Redeployment.  See  also  Deployment, 
to  Pacific,  13,  21, 48 
point  system  in,  23 
training  for,  24 
Regimental  combat  team,  65 
Regimental  operations 

in  attack,  with  artillery  and  air  support,  47,  63 
in  ETO,  78,  139 
in  Lorraine  campaign,  77 
on  Okinawa,  57 
in  Philippines  recovery,  52-53 
Regular  troops,  cooperation  with  guerrillas,  74 
Rehearsals  for  Normandy  landing,  85 
Reinforcements 

application  to  tactical  reorganizations,  22 
Japanese,  on  Leyte,  54 
of  Pacific  theater,  10-11 
of  Philippines,  4 
Remagen  bridge  seizure,  71,83 
Remington,  Jesse  A.,  105 
Renegotiation  of  contracts,  15 
Reorganization.  See  also  Organization. 
ofAGFin  1942,21-23 
for  redeployment,  22 

of  War  Department  in  1942, 5,  6,  2 1 , 30,  1  18, 
123 

wartime,  of  Army,  2 1  -23 
Replacement  and  School  Command,  24 
Replacement  training  centers,  24—25 
Replacements 

estimating  needs,  85 

procurement  and  training,  24-25, 76,  105 

system,  breakdown  of,  24 

training  adjusted  to  theater  requirements,  25 


INDEX 


167 


Requirements 

computing  and  forecasting,  15,  1 15-16,  1 18 
coordination  with  planning,  7 
feasibility  of  wartime  production,  15 
for  rearming  Allies,  1 38 
for  service  troops,  1 1 
Research  and  development 
atomic  weapons,  1 4 1  — 43 
in  chemical  warfare,  101-03 
civilian-military  relations  in,  102 
factors  affecting,  1 1 8 
German  methods,  1 14 
in  Ordnance  Department,  1 13-14 
inQMC,  117-18 
in  Signal  Corps,  1 22-23 
in  transportation,  127 

Resistance,  relation  of  logistical  planning  to,  46 
Resources 

competition  for,  10,  12 
conversion  to  war  use,  8-9 
matched  with  strategic  concepts,  43 
scarce,  planning  against,  7, 43—44 
Retrograde  movements 

of  large  force  under  pressure,  46 
in  Philippines,  45 

Reverses,  logistical  response  to,  86 
Rhine  River,  7 1 , 77, 78, 79,  80,  82, 83-84,  86 
Rhineland  Campaign,  7 1 
Rhone  Valley,  pursuit  up,  70-7 1 , 81-82 
Risch,  Ema,  1 17 
River  crossings,  109 
at  Amaville,  139-40 
assault.  109 
in  Italy,  64,  66 
Moselle  River,  77,  139 
multiple  crossings,  76,  77 
Rapido  River,  in  flood,  64 
Rhine  River,  7 1 , 77,  82, 83-84, 86 
tactics  of,  53,  84 

use  of  smoke  generators,  78,  79,  84,  104 
River  line 

assault  on  wide  front,  77 
defense  of,  53 
engineer  operations  at,  78 
smoke  operations  at,  78 
Riviera  to  the  Rhine  drive,  70-7 1 
Road  construction  and  repair,  107,  109 
Roadblocks,  80 
Roer  River,  drive  to,  70,  79 
Romanus,  Charles  F.,  93, 94, 95,  120 
Rome,  capture  of,  65 
Rome-Berlin  Axis,  dissolution  of,  63 
Roosevelt,  Franklin  D. 
as  Commander  in  Chief,  9 
decision  on  Army  role  in  civil  affairs,  1 34 
decision  on  China-based  air  power,  94 
decision  on  Northwest  Africa,  7 
defense  doctrine  enunciated,  35 
prewar  policies,  3, 4,  132,  133 


Roosevelt,  Franklin  D. — Continued 
role  in  logistics,  10,  12 
role  in  rearming  French,  138 
role  in  strategic  planning,  8 
unconditional  surrender  formula,  8,  9 
Rosenthal,  Herbert  H..  104 
Ross,  William  F.,  120 
ROUNDUP.  See  Normandy  Campaign. 

Royal  Australian  Air  Force,  53 
Ruhr  industrial  area,  79,  83 
Ruppenthal,  Roland  G.,  84,  85 
Russell  Islands,  secured,  46 
Russia.  See  Soviet  Army;  Soviet  Union. 

Ryukyu  Islands  seizure,  56-58 

St.  Malo,  assault  on,  76 
St.  Vith,  80 

Saipan,  seizure  of,  5 1-52 

Salerno,  landings  at,  64 

Salvage  and  reclamation,  118,  119,  120,  121 

Salween  River,  95 

Saveme  Gap,  8 1 

Schmidt,  battle  of,  139-40 

Schnee  Eiffel.  79-8 1 

Science,  Signal  Corps  contributions  to,  122-24 
Scientific  data,  exchange  with  Allies,  1 14 
Scientific  Research  and  Development,  Office  of 
(OSRD),  142 

Sea,  command  of,  effect  on  enemy,  46 
Searchlights,  use  of,  79 
Security  measures 
in  atomic  project,  143 
inadequate,  effect  of,  140 
in  transport  facilities,  126 
in  tribal  areas,  90 
in  war  plants,  16 

Segregation,  racial,  65,  105,  108,  135-36 
Seine  River,  drive  to,  76 

Selective  Service  Act  of  1940,  nondiscrimination 
clause,  135 

Selective  Service  System,  16,  17,  136 
Service  schools 

organization,  training,  testing  in,  24,  25 
in  Signal  Corps,  123 
Service  troops,  requirements  for,  1 1 
Services  of  Supply  (SOS).  See  also  Army  Service 
Forces  (ASF), 
in  CBI,  93-94 
in  China,  95 

local  procurement  by,  95 
and  Quartermaster  Corps,  1 2 1 
role  in  logistics,  10 

SEXTANT  (Cairo)  Conference,  6,  8, 94 
Shipbuilding,  125 

Shipments,  from  depot  to  troops,  1 15 
Shipping 
assault,  13 

civilian-military  relations  in,  10,  1 1 
conflict  between  global  and  local  interests,  90 


168 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Shipping — Continued 
control  of,  1 25 

difficulties  in  providing,  6,  126-27 
effect  on  logistics  in  various  areas,  1 1 
inter-Allied  control,  126 
problems  in  ETO,  84-85 
shortages  in,  10,  13,  14,  64,  1 17,  I  19,  125 
and  strategic-logistical  planning,  13,  14 
troopship  administration,  126 
Shops,  maintenance  management  in,  1 16 
Shortages 

aircraft,  1 32-33 
ammunition,  84 
artillery,  48 

base  and  storage  facilities,  127 

control  and  allocation,  86 

defense  of  fortified  areas,  effect  on,  46 

distribution  of  scarce  articles,  11,  133 

equipment,  139,  140 

food,  121 

gasoline,  84 

landing  craft,  74 

materiel,  123 

medical  supplies,  1 10 

military  aid,  1 1 

raw  materials,  1 14 

shipping,  10,  13,  14,64,  117,  119,  125 
training,  effect  on,  25 
transport  facilities,  126,  127 
Shuri,  drive  on,  57 

Sicily  Campaign,  13,62-64,  108,  109,  1  10,  1 16,  120 

Siege  conditions,  46,  109 

Siegfried  Line  campaign,  70, 77, 78-79 

Signal  Corps,  121-24 

Signal  equipment.  See  Communications. 

SLEDGEHAMMER.  See  Normandy  Campaign. 

Small  businesses 

contract  problems,  15-16 
contributions  and  subcontracting,  123 
Small-unit  operations,  1 39—40 
in  Europe,  78-81 
in  Italy,  64— 65 
on  Leyte,  54 

in  Lorraine  campaign,  77 
in  Normandy,  74 
on  Okinawa,  56-57 
ordnance,  116-17 
in  Philippines  recovery,  53 
in  Sicily,  63 

Smith,  Clarence  McKittrick,  109 
Smith.  R.  Elberton,  14 
Smith,  Robert  Ross,  52, 55,  8 1 
Smoke  generators,  development,  102 
Smoke  operations 

to  conceal  activities,  8 1 , 84,  104,  139 
development,  102,  103 
at  river  lines,  78,  79,  84,  104 
Smyth,  Howard  McGaw,  62 
Snell,  Edwin  M.,  6 


Soldiers,  use  in  war  industry,  16,  17 
Somervell,  Lt.  Gen.  Brehon  B.,  12,  29,  30,  86 
Somervell-Lutes  inspection  tour,  86 
South  Pacific  Area  (SOPAC) 
amphibious  operations  in,  46 
case  study  in  logistical  plans,  1  1 . 44 
medical  services  in,  1 12-13 
in  Rabaul  reduction,  49 
Southeast  Asia  Command  (SEAC),  94,  106 
Southern  France  Campaign,  73-74, 81-82, 83 
debate  on  landing,  74 
decision  for,  9 
medical  services  in,  110 
planning  for,  6-7 
Southwest  Pacific  Area  (SWPA) 

amphibious  operations  in,  46, 52-53,  107 
medical  services  in,  112-13 
naval  operations  by,  53 
ordnance  support,  116-17 
in  Rabaul  reduction,  44, 49 
Soviet  Army,  71 
Soviet  Union 

coalition,  weight  in,  8 
cooperation  with,  83,  90 
expectations  from  Allies,  8,  9 
lend-lease  to,  11,13,  14,89-90 
relations  with  United  States,  72 
role  in  strategic  planning,  8 
supply  routes  to,  1 1 
Spain,  9 
Spare  parts 

maintenance  and  supply,  104.  105,  120,  124,  127 
Ordnance  Department  problem,  1 15 
Signal  Corps  supply,  124 
SPARS,  141 

Specialists,  training,  126 
Specialization,  22, 23 

Staffs  and  staff  procedures,  5,  6.  See  also  Command; 

Headquarters. 

integrated,  for  coalition  warfare,  62 
logistical  coordination,  inadequate,  $5 
overexpansion  of,  90 
Staging  operations,  transportation  in,  126 
Stalin,  Joseph  V„  8 
Standardization  of  equipment,  105 
Stauffer,  Alvin  P.,  119 
Stevens,  John,  56 

Stilwell,  Lt.  Gen.  Joseph  W.,  1 2, 93-95 
Stock  control  systems,  116,  123 
development  of,  118 
in  QMC,  1  18 
Stocks,  dispersion  of,  1 19 
Storage  facilities 
CWS  problems,  102 
expansion  of,  1 23 

Ordnance  Department  methods,  1 1 5 
in  QMC,  1 18 
shortages  in,  127 
wartime  expansion,  1 1 8 


INDEX 


169 


Strategic  materials,  control  of,  106 
Strategic  planning 

Allies,  differences  with,  7, 62-64, 74,  83 
for  amphibious  operations,  5 1 , 54 
Axis  difficulties  with,  63 
British,  coordination  with,  4,  83 
Burma,  Allied  debates  over,  94 
in  CBI,  94-95 

for  coalition  warfare,  6-9, 62-63 
and  foreign  relations,  4,  6,  7,  9 
German,  73 

global  planning,  competition  with,  85 

for  global  war,  7,  1 0, 43 

for  invasion  of  Sicily,  62-64 

for  Italian  campaign,  64—66 

Japanese,  43, 44, 47, 48,  50,  5 1 , 52,  53,  55 

logistical  plans,  role  of,  10-14,43 

for  Marianas,  5 1-52 

mobilization,  effect  on,  22 

Navy,  differences  and  coordination  with,  7, 9, 43- 
44 

for  Normandy,  7,71, 73-75 
for  Northwest  Africa,  6, 7, 61-62 
for  Okinawa,  56-58 
ordnance  support  for,  116,  117 
for  Pacific  theater,  43^44 
for  Philippines  recovery,  43^44, 52-53 
role  of  intelligence  in,  55-56 
theater  problems  versus  grand  strategy,  47 
transportation  as  factor  in,  125 
United  States  and  Canada,  1 36-37 
unpreparedness,  effect  on,  46 
War  Department  General  Staff,  role  in,  4 
for  Western  Hemisphere,  3, 4, 35-38,  1 37 
Strategic  Services,  Office  of,  82 
Strategy 

Army’s  concepts,  6-7, 9 
construction,  relation  to,  108 
global  logistics  and,  10-14 
Japanese,  in  Philippines  defense,  55 
logistics,  relation  to,  10,  30 
manpower,  influence  on,  9 
Northwest  Africa,  enemy,  6 1  -62 
in  Pacific  theater,  41-58 
requirements,  relation  to,  1 1 
tactics,  relation  to,  58 
“Streamlining,”  22 
Street  fighting,  78,  79,  139 
Stuttgart  incident,  138 
Subcontracting.  See  Small  businesses. 

Submarine  operations,  U.S.,  in  Pacific,  54 
Subversion,  U.S.  protection  against,  37,  38 
Suicide  air  attacks.  See  Kamikaze  attacks. 

Sultan,  Lt.  Gen.  Daniel  I.,  95 
Sunderland,  Riley,  93,  94, 95 
Supply  bases 
in  India,  11,  107 
operation  on  islands,  107,  120 
Supply  Control  System,  103 


Supply  operations.  See  also  Air  supply. 

Allies,  pooling  and  allocating  among,  11,  105 
in  amphibious  operations,  57,  107 
Anglo-American  pool,  1 1 
Axis  problems  with,  64,  81 
chemical  warfare  materiel,  102,  104 
in  combat,  64—66,  107,  120,  140 
common-versus-separate  system,  30 
communications  equipment,  protection  of,  124 
CWS  distribution  problems,  102 
deployment  of  supplies,  6-7 
disposition,  relation  to  capacity  for  resistance,  46 
effect  on  logistics  in  various  areas,  11,81,  109 
engineer  role  in,  106-09 

local  procurement  overseas,  85,  86,  95,  1 19,  120 
medical,  110,  111,  112,  113 
munitions  allocation  and  distribution,  1 1 
Ordnance  Department  methods,  114—17 
over-the-beach  methods,  51,  52,  84,  85,  128 
packaging  and  packing,  118,  124 
in  Philippines  recovery,  53 
POL  distribution,  104,  107,  109 
procedures  for,  1 2 
by  QMC,  117-21 

requirements,  determining,  11,  15 
spare  parts  stocks,  104,  105,  116,  124 
special  articles  for  Allies,  138 
Supply  Control  System,  103,  118,  123 
transportation,  role  in,  64,  8 1 ,  1 24-25 
in  Transportation  Corps,  124—28 
Victory  Program,  4, 7 
volumes  of,  83 
waterproofing,  124 
in  zone  of  interior,  30 
Supply  routes,  10-11, 107-08 
Supply  theater,  role  of  ASF  in  organizing,  90 
Supporting  arms,  at  Guadalcanal,  47 
Supreme  Commander,  Allied  Expeditionary  Forces. 

See  Eisenhower,  General  of  the  Army  Dwight  D. 
Supreme  Headquarters,  Allied  Expeditionary  Forces 
(SHAEF),  70,71-73 
Surpluses 

allocation  to  Allies,  138 
disposal  of,  119 
Surprise 

in  Ardennes,  73 
effect  on  enemy,  46 
on  grand  scale,  72 
at  Pearl  Harbor,  4,  6 
in  Philippines,  46 
Surrender 

of  Bataan  and  Corregidor,  45 

ethics  of,  45^16 

in  Italy,  65-66 

Japan,  in  China,  95 

Japanese,  56 

in  Northwest  Africa,  6 1 

of  Philippines  by  United  States, 

44-45 


170 


READER'S  GUIDE 


Tactical  planning 

for  amphibious  operation,  50-52 
effect  of  intelligence  on,  55-56 
for  joint  task  forces,  62 
logistical  aspects,  84—86 
for  Marianas,  51-52 
ordnance  role  in,  1 16-17 
Tactics.  See  also  Assault  tactics, 
armor  in  limited  attacks,  78 
in  breakthrough,  76 
broad-front  maneuver,  62 
counterattack,  German  methods,  140 
counterattack,  Japanese  methods,  51,52,  58 
in  defense,  76 

in  difficult  terrain,  65-66, 78,  80,  8 1 

double  envelopment,  81 

effect  of  enemy  command  of  air  and  sea  on,  46 

enemy,  in  Europe,  80 

enemy,  in  Northwest  Africa,  6 1  -62 

enveloping,  difficulty  on  islands,  51 

on  fortified  islands,  5 1, 52 

in  mobile  warfare,  64, 65-66, 76 

new  weapons,  relation  to,  114 

obsolete,  use  in  Philippines,  45 

perimeter  defense,  80 

piecemeal  reinforcement,  80 

of  river  crossings,  53,  84 

small-unit,  53, 54, 56-57, 66, 74,  77, 78, 79, 80,  8 1 
139 

strategy,  relation  to,  43^14, 58, 64 
terrain,  effect  on,  79,  80,  8 1 , 84 
weather,  effect  on,  58,  78,  79,  80,  8 1 , 84 
Tank,  controversy  over,  1 14 
Tank  destroyers 

in  close  support,  65,  140 
integration  into  ground  forces,  22 
as  specialized  arm,  22 
Tanks.  See  Armor;  Armor  operations. 

Task  forces 

armor,  in  limited  attacks,  78 
joint,  tactical  planning,  62 
principle,  extension  of,  23,  81 
in  special  operations,  76 
“Tax  amortization”  provisions,  15,  133 
Teamwork,  Rabaul  as  example,  49 
Technical  services 

ASF,  coordination  by,  29,  30 
ASF,  relation  to,  125 
histories  of,  99- 128 

Technology,  intelligence  in  developments,  1 14 
Tehran  Conference,  8 
Telegraph,  extension  in  West,  124 
Terrain 

difficult,  armor  operations  in,  57 
difficult,  tactics  in,  64—66, 78, 80, 81-82,  1 09 
Terrett,  Dulany,  121 
Theaters  of  Operations 

Central  Pacific,  42, 44-46, 50-53, 104, 1 19 
China-Burma-India,  1 1,93-95,  106,  127 


Theaters  of  Operations — Continued 

European,  6, 7, 9, 63-86, 108-09, 1 1 1-12, 1 16-17, 
126-27.  139-40,  141,  147 
Mediterranean,  6, 7, 9, 1  1,61-66,85,89-90,  1 08— 
09,  1 10-11, 1 16-17, 127,  141,  147 
Middle  East,  11,89-90, 127 
North  African,  6,  7,  I  1 , 85 
North  Pacific,  127 

Pacific  Ocean  Areas,  6,  7,  9,  10.  1  1,41-58,  104, 
106-08, 1 19,  127,  147 
South  Pacific,  1 1 , 42, 46, 48-50,  I  1 9 
Southwest  Pacific,  42, 44-50, 52-58, 1 16-17, 1 19, 
141 

Western  Hemisphere,  35-38, 1 36-37 
Thompson,  George  Raynor,  1 2 1 
Thomson,  Harry  C.,  1 1 4 
Three  Powers  Declaration,  90 
Tinian,  seizure  of,  51-52 
Tizard  Mission,  123 

TORCH.  See  Northwest  Africa,  campaign  in. 

Toulon,  seizure  of,  8 1 
Traffic,  effect  on  operations,  76 
Training,  22, 23-25, 38 

for  amphibious  operations,  5 1 , 52 

chemical  warfare,  defense  against,  101,  102 

of  Chinese  Army,  95 

for  civil  affairs  administration,  134 

for  civilian  defense,  101 

by  CWS,  101,  102 

drivers,  127 

engineer  troops,  104-05 
films  in,  123 

inadequate,  effect  in  battle,  48 
of  medical  troops.  111,  112 
for  Normandy,  85 
in  Ordnance  Department,  1 14 
in  photography,  123 
program  and  problems,  4 
inQMC,  118,  119,  121 

racial  segregation,  problems  posed  by,  135,  136 
of  replacements,  24,  105 
in  service  schools,  24 
in  Signal  Corps,  122,  123 
of  specialists,  126 
in  Transportation  Corps,  126-27 
troops  and  officers,  4,  105 
use  of  soldiers  in,  38 
Training  centers  in  CBI,  95 
Transportation,  124—28 

German  efforts  to  keep  roads  and  railroads 
functional,  81 
global  aspects,  10 
ground  troops  by  air,  48 
long-distance  requirements,  84—85, 86 
of  patients  in  zone  of  interior,  109-10 
in  supply  operations,  81,  117,  124 
Transportation  Corps  (TC),  124—28 
Treadwell,  Mattie  E.,  140 
Trench  foot,  121 


INDEX 


171 


TRIDENT  (Washington)  Conference.  6, 63 
Troop  movements,  126-28 
Troop  strength.  Army,  1 939—4 1 , 37 
Troop  trains,  126 
Troop  units 

binational  forces,  136-37 
black. 65,  105,  108. 135-36 
construction  for,  106 
in  Corps  of  Engineers,  104—09 
enlisted  strength,  23 
general  purpose  versus  specialized,  23 
medical,  for  overseas,  109,  110,  111 
medical  services  to,  1 1 1 ,  1 1 2,  1 1 3 
QMC,  development  in,  119 
segregation,  racial,  105, 135-36 
service,  11,  135,  136 
shipment  of  materiel  to,  115 
strength  and  deployment,  global,  22 
training,  24 
transportation  of,  126 
Troops.  See  Personnel. 

Troopships,  administration,  126 
Tropical  warfare.  See  also  Jungle  operations, 
engineer  role  in,  106-08 
evaluation  of  equipment  in,  120 
logistical  problems,  53,  55 
medical  services  in,  1 10-1 1, 1 12-13 
ordnance  support,  116,  117 
readying  supplies  for,  124 
Truck  transportation  in  ETO,  84—85 
Trucks,  125,  128 
Tunis,  drive  on,  62 

Tunisia  Campaign.  See  Northwest  Africa,  campaign 
in. 

Tunnel  combat,  53,  57 
Turkey,  9 

Tuskegee  University,  135 
“Type”  units  abandoned,  23 

ULTRA,  82 

Unconditional  surrender  formula,  8,  9.  73 
Undersecretary  of  War,  14—15 
Underwater  demolition  teams,  5 1 
Underwater  obstacles,  75 
United  Kingdom 

Anglo-American  supply  pool,  11,  12,  13 
cooperation  on  development  of  atomic  bomb, 

143 

coordination  with  U.S.  plans  and  policies,  4 
engineer  activity  in,  108-09 
hospitals  in,  1 1 1 
logistical  problems  in,  1 1 
role  in  civil  administration  of  liberated  or 
conquered  areas,  134 
and  Soviet  expectations,  8,  9 
strategic  planning,  role  in,  8 
U.S.  assistance  to,  37 
U.S.  commands  in,  84,  85 
women’s  services,  141 


United  States,  35-38 

British  plans  and  policies,  coordination  with,  4, 62- 
64 

Canada,  relations  with,  136-37 
coalition,  weight  in,  8-9 

continental,  organization  for  defense,  23,  37,  38 
France,  relations  with,  137-38 
materiel,  superiority  of,  14 
in  military  negotiation  and  diplomacy,  8-9 
military  power,  expansion  of,  10-1 1 
outlook  on  eve  of  Casablanca,  8 
and  Soviet  expectations,  8,  9 
war,  imminence  of,  3 
war  production,  leader  in,  14 
United  States  Army 

in  amphibious  training,  23 

Anglo-American  supply  pool,  1 1 

atomic  bomb,  development  of,  141^13 

“balanced  force”  concept,  4 

black  women  in,  136 

Canada,  operations  in,  37 

Canada,  organization  in,  137 

Chief  of  Staff,  control  by,  4—5 

civilian  food,  control  by,  119 

coalition  warfare,  concepts  and  influence  in,  6-9 

control,  organization  for,  4 

and  economic  mobilization,  14—16 

expansion  and  rearmament,  1 1 

expeditionary  forces,  plans  for,  37 

forces,  deployment  of,  6-8, 9 

Gilberts-Marshalls,  force  in,  50 

guerrillas,  use  of,  56 

and  industrial  manpower,  16-17 

industry,  cooperation  with,  1 18 

integration  of  plans  with  Navy-AAF,  7, 9,  12-13 

Japanese  Americans  in,  65 

Japanese  estimate  of,  47 

Leyte,  forces  on,  54 

logistics,  role  in  strategic  planning,  10-14 

Marianas,  forces  in,  51-52 

Marine  Corps,  problems  with,  52 

Marine  Corps,  units  under,  53 

Middle  East  Theater,  command  relations  with.  90 

native  forces  in,  46 

Navy,  coordination  with,  4, 5, 7, 9, 43^44,  1 33 

ninety-division  limitation,  8,  9 

Okinawa,  forces  on,  57 

organization  charts,  106 

organization  and  strength,  1939-41, 37 

Pacific,  deployment  to  in  1943,  14,48-49 

Philippines  defense,  forces  in,  44-46 

racial  policy,  135-36 

racial  violence  in  the,  135,  136 

readiness,  state  of,  3, 4 

role  in  civil  affairs,  134 

strategic  planning,  concepts  and  influence  in,  6-9, 
43-44 

strength  compared  to  industry’s,  16 
tactical  reorganizations,  22,  23 


172 


READER'S  GUIDE 


United  States  Army — Continued 
troop  basis,  22 

troops  on  friendly  soil,  90,  137 
United  Kingdom,  commands  in,  85,  86 
units  under  foreign  command,  79 
wartime  organization,  reshaping,  10-1 1 , 21, 37, 38 
United  States  Navy 

cooperation  with  Transportation  Corps,  125 
differences  and  coordination  with,  4,  5,  7, 9 
integration  of  plans  with  Army-AAF,  7,  9 
operations  in  Pacific,  51,  52 
organization  in  Canada,  1 37 
problems  of  aircraft  allocation  to,  133 
Units.  See  Troop  units. 

Unlimited  war 

decision  to  wage,  6 
effect  on  deployment  for,  8,  9 
Unpreparedness.  See  also  Combat  readiness; 
Rearmament, 
costs  of,  4 

of  enemy,  in  Normandy,  74 
of  logistics  in  Philippines,  120 
inQMC,  117 

strategic  planning,  effect  on,  45 
United  States,  during  mobilization,  37 
Urban  center,  capture  of,  55-56 

V-mail,  123 

VARSITY,  71,83 

Vehicles  for  medical  service,  1 10 

Venereal  disease,  1 1 1 

Victory  Program,  4, 7 

Vigneras,  Marcel,  137 

Voluntary  service  in  industry,  16 

Vosges,  winter  warfare  in,  70-7 1 , 81-82 

Wainwright,  Lt.  Gen.  Jonathan  M.,  45— J6 
War,  economics  of.  14-16 
War  Department 

and  Chemical  Warfare  Service,  104 
Chief  of  Staff,  role  in,  3-4 
Civilian  Affairs  Division,  134 
and  economic  mobilization,  14-16 
engineers,  relations  with,  104 
and  industrial  manpower,  16-17 
Ordnance  Department,  relations  with,  1 14 
Pearl  Harbor,  responsibility  for,  4 
plans  and  preparations,  3-17, 44 
in  rearmament  of  France,  137-38 
reorganization,  effect  on  QMC.  1 1 8 
reorganization,  effect  on  Signal  Corps,  123 
reorganization,  supply  aspects,  30 
reorganization  of  1 942,  5,  6,  2 1 , 30,  118,  123 
WAC,  policy  concerning,  141 
War  Department  General  Staff  ( WDGS) 

Operations  Division,  4-6 

planning  versus  operational  activity,  31 

role  in  logistics,  10 

Secretary  of  War  on  Negro  Affairs,  1 35 


War  neurosis,  50 

War  Plans  Division,  1 940-42, 5.  See  also  Operations 
Division  (OPD). 

War  Production  Board  ( WPB ) 
conflict  with  ASF,  29-30 
role  in  aircraft  production,  132,  133 
role  in  logistics,  10 

War  Shipping  Administration,  10,  12.90 
Wardlow,  Chester,  124,  125 
Warehouses,  use  of  shipping  for,  127 
Warehousing  by  QMC.  1  18 
Washington  Conferences,  6,  8 
Waterproofing,  124 
Watson,  Mark  Skinner,  3 
WAVES,  141 

Weapons.  See  also  Equipment;  Materiel;  Production, 
for  aircraft,  1 1 4 
antiaircraft,  1 14 
improvised,  use  of,  57 
Japanese,  58 

new,  relation  to  tactics,  1 14 
obsolete,  use  in  Philippines,  45 
planning  and  developing,  1 14 
Weather 

effect  on  air  support,  76,  80,  8 1 
effect  on  operations,  58, 64—66, 75 
effect  on  tactics,  78, 80, 81-82 
Wedemeyer,  Lt.  Gen.  Albert  C.,  95 
Wehrmacht,  83 
Weinberg.  Albert  K.,  134 
Weld.  Ralph  F„  108 

West  Wall.  See  Siegfried  Line  campaign. 

Western  Hemisphere,  35-38 
defense  plans,  3,4,  136-37 
strategic  plans  for  defense,  136-37 
Wiley,  Belli.,  21, 23 
Williams,  Mary  H„  131 
Wiltse,  Charles  M.,  1 10 
Winter  Line,  65 

Winter  warfare,  in  Vosges,  70-71, 

81-82 

Wire  communications  equipment,  124 
Withdrawals 
under  attack,  57 
from  river  line,  53 
Women,  black,  in  Army,  136 
Women  Air  Service  Pilots,  141 
Women  Ordnance  Workers,  141 
Women  in  Radio  and  Electrical  Service, 

141 

Women's  Army  Corps,  141 
World  War  I 

chemical  weapons  in,  103 
deployment  and  mobilization  in,  22 
experience  applied,  14,  16 
World  War  II,  chronology.  131 

Yasmashita,  General,  56 
Ypres,  battle  of,  99 


INDEX 


173 


Zone  of  the  Interior 

command  relations  in  supplying  combat  units,  30 
Medical  Department  in,  109-10 
QMC  operations  in,  117-19 


supply  relations  with  theaters,  120 
theaters,  coordination  with,  5-6 
theaters,  relations  with,  84-86, 1 2 1 
wartime  organization.  30 


USAPPC  -  2-04357  -  320-735  -  1 1/92 


ISBN  0-16-037817-6 


90000 


9  780160  378 


"«  %  „* 


*  OyVA 

*  'V  < 


a  -f  V  ^  V  \Ay> 

<1  ^  >  -'^te.%  % 

x  “  JP1|  r 

*  °»^^»*  #V\  *  ^  ■ 

A~vr  *  rXSNr^  _  '  J-  O  *i*  £fVT7//h.  "%  O  A  **  _t55x\».  <r  V?  G  ♦  JfclflTfcz 

«4§|k'.  *W  *'-*  ‘ 


r.  u , .  ;v'.'.v^;... 

'  ~  "  uo  s*  .*_««*  g**  g  .« 


>>o* 

.^O. 


o  xO)>  t  ♦  *>%  *  |p||g^  ®  X°^n  *  *  <A°/>  V? 

'"  5“V°'’^'S',n *  1 “°  V°v*V 7 ’*.%''■ "  ''v'v'V;^’ 0  K°' 

.’JS&rJ  V«*<r  *  *-v  ■'*-  ■'-•''«?■*'■•.*  ■»•  ■< 

w  1 


•$>£• 


’  v<,\? »4 

o°"0*,  ^  .o v * 

c^5^w\>  *  -f  A  C  *  ^ 

*  /*0  * 

*  ^ 

»  *  *  ?V  V  O* 

X  a.  jWOjw  *  y£ . 


o.  *0  ,  ,-t.  /> 

‘"\V  < 

:  rov^  ;  ™ ' 

.°0o4  ^y v 

.o  <V  *-  -*  ^ 


r  *  aV  %,  v  '%gmgf  *  >  '/v  o  'V/^^sV'  *  . 

*J>  CONC,  %*<•  *  So^«  L'*,°V°  *  ' 

,a>  *•?  <f>  cr  < 

*  *  A*.",  ^  *  M/2Zt>  +  -c  * 


%  °o  ’>V^; 

»  V  ,° 

•  o4 


k  o^  V> 
^  ^ 

^  fAV-V^Ai  o  1 


%•  z  v  o  vv<^v  o 

°  W  *  \/  M;  V 

C%.0_  ^  ^/V/k  r^nvv  —  X  J  />  -C-nfV 


r .  _  _  , 

^  A  /V  'r^  ^  * C<  ^  ^  ^  <V’  T 

*  l^t-^°'^  *  ‘  o°^L^ 


°  ‘.f*;  aV-v  j.  P*S*i  4«f>Ji>*  °^W* 

^  **>:tr  SL,V*^ 


*/■  V'3^ 

o 


yov4  . 

p-^j.  : 

>  <47 M?  £  V 

*  *>  \> 


-  - - - -  * 

^0<<„  *^^’»°  J 

..  Vw, 

,'yftev^  \  V  s 

z  r 

®  •»  a.  ^  /  -v 


■W'  * 


o  -u/ saw  ,  *v  v>,  •  Virrr'/  *  A,  o  x/x;v.\it  „  , 

Vq#°  *  t0N0,  ^  ^  *  *-l»^0/V0#°  * 

f  °o  4^  *  t»  G°  *\vr^h\  °o  A^  J 


.  O  M  G 


rov 


W 

AQ 


>  r$r  pV  *  «  y  4  ^  ^  ^  a  .*  *< 

•  i>s  .tr  *'V  •  *  ’> 

A  f  <->  /i  *  _s5^SV*  *  '<«  O  * 

■>bA  "J^®4>'  *.  * 


°*  *v^P’»  /\  vH®'  ’  A  A  'w?  *°%  r/^m§'  A  °<*  *' 

fe  *  ^  =sk\  ^  • Sfe :  \a  \  W  *w- ' 

»;  Av^t.  '.  W«  .«f>4k  5iW:  av4  imm*  .«?V  S^ib 


❖V'V 


w*  ,  lif f  "  ^  o  %/»  *  c 

AK  *  <v  V4  A?  *y  *\k  °  <V  V'  ^feT'CaP*  A~  ^  ^j.  oTVJSWAKTV"  , 

*  O  ,^§IS®k*  *  m1=^  *  «frw*^  o' A 


”l  *  AO*  * 

±  ^  O  o 

0  V*n»*  °^  *o»*o*  A° 

°*  V  V  ****/♦  CV  *0  -* 


VvV 

O  £ 

*>  <</  '/',  o 

>*<r  *<d.  •, 

o4  »•  L,*‘  4o 

&  ^  V- 

*  ‘  A  OV 

o 


^  °o  ’V  *!^>V 

f-  oA:  *< 


:  <a°*  *lll§Ko  n#%  -.« 

>  '•’  **<£•  •; ;,°VOKO>°  •  *  -  v 

*  Xr<£  * 

»  4^ 

oA>  ‘".v*  •‘*/!»«,#V';,;''/ 

o°  ****?&,  •’.  °o  j4  .•  J®,;',  t  (?  * 


o  Ob  O 

O  o 

0  O 


0  ”,  ^n45^  O  "  **v  \ 

„  °4>  'omO°  ^P 
r-v  C\  Ap  J*\  °*M  V 

'*  \A  * 


v-cr 


;■’  *>^^/D“V Vv  *v>  •  •  f.<A‘ 

i  :Mk  *r  s  V*  / 

#  A!#A 

_ .  .  •%  ^  .. .  V  \  5'/  .  ,  . 

r  v  °o  ^  a  ^  « 


r  a3, 

1  *,  <V^  Vs  A  A  oA  ^  °  *V^^\N  4,  V  ^  A  A  oA  AIa  O  H/^\N-  ^T  < 

At-^5\1  *  "o°>^X'“’  *  >t- 

O  -  A.  .  Ai.  A 


r^o 

AO*  * 

t*.  *  A  ^  o  ^  o  9"/*»  * 

O  ^  a-4;  A44'  JZ$irt»L.  *  Tv  ^  - r  - «  »  * 


n  * 


/ 


\r  c. 


'  «y  *V  _  ^  ^KiT \\sSi?  >  _  ~  Vt 

S  Cn  *  rP  K  * 

^'^\'1,0,//,“^ 


*  w  °  p.  '•vps'  -  ^se^x  z  v-n  °  r 

*  /\lw/  Av\  -  wAlw  av\ 

to%v  *  X-»\:  *  toe  *  *  d 

V  *Jill**  *§  "oif  .°^^' 


♦  -:v-  -  Vo  •  •  ^v,:::,>°a'  * . 
°«  ^ 

O  <  A  X  >  I 


9-179-965 


•4 

♦ 

*\o”  '(i  V 

p>  i 

*/>> 
o  < 
o 
* 
o 

4> 

y 

o°V 
><*  • 

■  * 

.M.'V ..  v 

,  ,  v1  %*  **  ^  pcx 

\  A  A  o'^»;  ' 


„,  •  N.  MANCHESTER 

-Please  |ND|A[sj^  46962 


1  IS  *  <£'  ^  O  *  IE  *  O  W™  «. 

AwT  ^  <vA  °*W?  'V  ^  f  <&  ^  ^ 


(V*  eb  *  ■»  a 

3<'i"..V*‘V' 


